
----------------~~---------------~--------~ 

11·· 

Tuesday, April 7, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No.)21 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
German orchestra to make American debut at SMC 


By SHANA'E TATE News Writer 
The Chamber Orchestra of the Rhine, a 
young group of German musicians, will per­
form classical music in their American debut 
tomorrow night at Saint Mary's. 
After two years of organizing and preparing 
for the visit, the orchestra will be playing 
pieces from Tchaikovsky's "Elegie," Grieg's 
Holberg Suite, Shostakovich's Chamber 
Symphony, Opus 110a, Bach's "Art of Fugue," 
and "14 Days in May," a piano concerto by 
Heiner Frost, their director. 
"(Frost's concerto] is an excellent piece. It is ·very expressive, very moving and very 
intense. He is an excellent composer," said 
professor Jeffrey Jacob of the Saint Mary's 
music department. 
mined to expose his audiences to the best in contemporary music. 
"I want people to like [the concert]," Frost said. 
Frost, in accordance with Jacob, has been planning this visit for the past two years. They have written approximately 1,600 e-mail messages to each other in the last three-and­a-half months regarding this special occasion. 
"This has been a very moving experience for the musical department as well as the stu­dents," Jacob said. 
Founded in 1991, this string orchestra is composed of a variety of individuals from the cities of Bocholt and Kleve in Germany. The group meets between the two locations in a city called Rees on the Dutch border to prac­tice their music. They rehearse about once a 
In choosing what to perform, Frost is deter-see ORCHESTRA I page 3 
NO gives Laerate to Pellegrino 
By SHANNON GRADY News Writer 
Dr. Edmund Pellegrino. pro­fessor of medicine and medical nthics at Georgetown University, will be presented with Notre Dame's 1998 Laetare Medal during commence­ment exercis­es on May 17. T h e Laetare Medal is gcn-

Pellegrino e r a 1 1 Y 

regarded as the most prestigious annual award conferred upon Catholics in the United States. Past recipi­ents of the award include Father Theodore llesburgh, Dorothy Day and John Kennedy. 
"During a medical and acade­mic career spanning more than half a century, Dr. Pellegrino has insisted that medicine is not merely a profession. but a voca­tion, and that such virtues as fidelity, compassion, prudence and humility arc not merely desirable, but indispensable attributes for a physician," said University President Father 
see MEDAL/ page 4 

Spring in the air ... 




Alumni Association elects board members 

·'Association 
RegionJ:~Jrt Brian Phillips, '80, Fairfi~ld, CA 
..... '<L Region 6: Stephen Graliker, '42,Decatur, IL 
Region 8: Michael Kiley, '56, Marion, IN 
Region 9: Jamie Eifert, '84, Cincinnati, ..QH 
..........__: 
Region 13:..,Michael Sheehap, '(>,§, San tonio, TX ~ :;; 
· )YiiF lll 
Region 16: Tom Hogan, '76 {l At-"l:arga;.;'li;:\Julie Epping, '9~ ~ 
• •• .· /./ , ill President: Elizabeth Toorney,p'~1 am ·... ·.."', ·.. ~*-'__.,.,, 8 
***Elected by votes of seniors'ii~d ati:Jmni ' /J '.:\ ~ 
L-----~~--~--------------------------------~ 
Observer Staff Report 
The Alumni Board of Directors for Notre Dame recently welcomed seven new members, all chosen by the votes both of seniors and alumni, according to Mary Pat Beal of the Alumni Association. 
One-third of the 18 board positions open up each year, and each director serves a three-year term. One at-large member is also chosen each 
year for a three-year term; "at-large" refers to the fact that they serve no set district. 
Julie Epping, of Charllotte, N.C., will serve as the at-arge director; in that capacity, she will "represent the interests -in regard to the University -of young alumni through­out the country," according to a statement from Beal. Epping graduated from Notre Dame in 1993. 
Elizabeth Toomey, a 1981 alumna, takes over the board's presidency on July 1 as another new appointee. She will replace Robert Franken, '69. 
Directors for the 18 regions help the Notre Dame Clubs in their region plan and coordi­nate events. They also moni­tor the community service and continuing education efforts of the clubs. 
The board holds meetings on campus three times each year. 

Denvir: Execution unfair 
By ANNE MARIE MATTINGLY Assistant News Editor 
The death penalty is applied in an arbitrary and discrimi­natory manner and is not justi­fied by claims that it is a deter­rent to crime or a successful form of retribution, according to Quin Denvir, California pub­lic defender and lead defense attorney in the Unabomber case. 
"Our use of the death oenal­ty is not exactly in the range of enlightened thought ... [it is] totally out of step with the civi­lized world," Denvir said in a lecture yesterday, noting that only four countries other than the United States (Iran, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, and Yemen) permit the execution of defendants who were less than 18 years of age at the time the crime was committed. 
When referring to common justifications for the penalty, Denvir expressed his belief that "none of them hold water." 
Proponents claim that the threat of death as a punish­ment not only deters other potential criminals from com­mitting these offenses, but also prevents convicts from repeat­ing their crimes upon release. 
But states that do not have the death penalty do not have lower crime rates than those that do, and most crimes eligi­ble for the penalty are not pre­meditated and are committed by the mentally ill, according to Denvir. · 
"Do I care whether the penalty is life without parole or the death penalty when I'm about to commit a crime?" Denvir asked. 
The penalty is also applied abritrarily, Denvir claimed, explaining that geographical biases and the race and eco­nomic status of the defendent affect the likelihood of receiv­ing the penalty. 
"It isn't the worst people who get the death penalty ... 
see DENVIR I page 4 


page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

The way of the cross 
When all the exams Colleen Gaughen are over and the 

Assistant Viewpoint Editor 
papers are printed, when all the cards have been sent and all the preparations for travel have been made, when the eggs are all dyed and the family has decided on which Mass or service to attend, and when the Cadbury bunny has begun to get on our nerves, we are lilh~d these last few days before Easter with anticipation for the weekend. 
Many of us are going home or out of town with our chunk of time ofT and will most likely be on the road or in the air this Friday ... Good Friday. The day that Jesus died. We will be worrying about departure and arrival times, and our thoughts will be filled with how long until the next pit stop. 
Those staying here will most likely be catch­ing up on sleep or enjoying the time to simply relax from the stress of the past week. Holy Week. Because of circumstance, we won't be able to fully remember or experience Christ's voluntary path of persecution, pain, suffering and death. 
Tonight, however, Campus Ministry will be sponsoring the annual campus-wide Stations of the Cross. The procession will begin at 7 p.m. at the Grotto. stopping at varying stations such as Corby Hall, the Architecture building, South Dining Hall. Hesburgh Library, Stonehenge and an assortment of dorms. After the Fourteenth Station at the Basilica, the Folk Choir will sing taize prayer, and everyone is welcome to remain for adoration or confession. 
Accompanied by solitary trumpets and can­dlelight, an actual wooden cross, which rnquires 12-15 people to hold up, will be car­ried from station to station where there will be prayers and dramatic meditations. 
As excited as I am for this moving event, I can't help but wonder if we arc living the sta­tions on the other 364 days of the year. 
I: Jesus is condemned to death. Do we forgive our betrayers as lie did? 
II : Jesus carries his cross. Do we carry our own crosses with the same humility? 
III: Jesus falls for the first time. Do we rnmember His humanity'? 
IV: Jesus meets His mother. Do we value peo­ple the same way? 
V: Simon of Cyrene helps Jesus carry His cross. Do we help others carry their crosses'? 
VI: Veronica wipes the face of Jesus. Do we seek to see Christ in everyday life? 
VII: Jesus falls a second time. Do we turn to Him wnen we continue to fall? 
VIII: Jesus meets the weeping women of .Jerusalem. Do we mourn today's sufferings? 
IX: Jesus falls a third time. Do we trust Him to help us when our stren1,rth is gone? 
X: Jesus is stripped of his clothes. Do we hide our true selves behind appearances? 
XI: Jesus is nailed to the cross. Do we realize that each pound of the hammer was a sin that we knowingly committ11d? 
XII: Jesus dies on the cross. Do we under­stand the depths of this sacrifice? 
XIII: The body of Jesus is taken down from the cross. Do we trust the strength of the power of the spirit over the body? 
XIV: The burial of Jesus. Do we allow renewal from things that die? 
Before you enjoy your weekend, please come to the Grotto tonight and experience a tastn of the journey that ensured your salva­tion. 
Then go live it. Everyday. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column 
are those of the author and not necessarily 
those ofThe Observer. 
• TODAV's STAFF 

News Graphics Anne Marie Maningly Melissa Weber Colleen McCarthy Production Anne Hosinski 
Jamie Heisler Sports Lab Tech 
Shannon Ryan Liz Lang Viewpoint Joe Stark Eddie Llull 
Scene Janice Weiers 

The Observer (USPS 599 l-4000) is published Monday through Friday C'Xccpr during exam and vacarion periods. The Observer is a member of the A...ociated Pres.. All reproduction righ" are reserved. 
The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, April 7, 1998 

Police intervene in daylight-saving time disturbance 

ATHENS, Ohio 

Uptown revelers turned their clocks back one year Sunday morning when about 2,000 people blocked Court Street between Washington and State streets for 30 minutes before police using force dispersed the crowd. 
The incident mirrored last year's daylight-saving time disturbance when about 1,000 people gathered uptown and made national headlines when police arrested 47 people. This year, Mayor Ric Abel declared an emergency, and police said about 27 people were arrested and two officers were injured. 
Like last year, police shot "multiple baton shells" to disperse the crowd. 
This year most of the crowd, mainly students, came to watch. Some came to yell, chanting "0-U, 0-U," "Let's go Bobcats," "Bring it on" and "CNN, CNN." 
Police were booed. Some men and 
• UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO 
Prof: menstrual pheromones exist 
CHICAGO 

Martha McClintock, a University professor of psychology, 
and Kathleen Stern, a 1992 Ph.D. graduate in psychology, 
have discovered two human pheromones from their exper­
iments with perspiration from women. While one 
pheromone is said to lengthen the menstrual cycle, the 
other one shortens it. McClintock's paper, "Regulation of 
Ovulation by Human Pheromones," was published last 
month in the scientific journal Nature, and finally confirms 
the existence of human pheromones. Stern co-authored the 
paper with McClintock and is currently a researcher in pri­
vate industry. Pheromone is a term that was coined 40 
years ago when it was discovered that insects secrete cer­
tain odorless chemicals that influence the behavior of other 
insects. McClintock and Stern found that women in dormi­
tories tend to have their menstrual cycles at the same time 
because of exposure to underarm perspiration. In their 
experiment, they had nine women, ages 20 to 35, wear 
pads under their arms where pheromone-producing 
glands exist. 
• UNIVERSITY OF CAUFORNIA*lOS ANGELES . 
Students injured in possible hazing 
LOS ANGELES 

Two students are still in critical condition after a possible hazing that police suspect occurred the Friday before spring break. Marshall Lai, an 18-year-old UClA freshman, is still in critical condition and is being treated for kidney failure at the UCLA Medical Center, and another pledge, Derrick Ku, wa;; hospitalized in San Jose with similar symptoms. The third student, a 19-year-old sophomore from Orange County, was released from the medical center on Thursday. Robert Naples, vice chancellor for student affairs and cam­pus life, said that the pledges underwent a "boot camp expe­rience." Lai and the other 25 pledges had to endure hours of push-ups, sit-ups, running and other activities. As of yet, there is no evidence of alcohol or drug use. Doctors alerted campus police to possible abuse last Monday when Lai and the unnamed student were being treated for exhaustion. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWealher"' forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, April 7. 
30s Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
~s 4s


r/---
H 

Tuesday ~ 
® 

Wedne~day ~ 

Thursday 4, 
FRONTS:


Friday ',l ~.., 
..,............ -&...&... 
.............. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
0 1998 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure 

H L B 5SI r:nJ 0 . ~ 8 ~ ~ u

Satur:t:fay __ :';:~ ?> 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
~·, ~r...,f'"'~..\./ "~:·" 
v. Auoal!t.d Pr.­
,._/····~· 

Anchorage 41 30 Dallas 75 56 Miami 80 67 
~~..rQ.c:::1~~ (f
,,',, ..~..~ ......:. ·i·.:::·.::=--=--=--=­
Showers T-slorms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Vl.l Auociated Press GraplucsNet 
women shed their shirts. At least a dozen video cameras rolled. Others jumped into the street and posed for pictures. Student opinions about the cause of the disturbance ranged from celebrating the anniversary of the 1997 disturbance to media exposure to police visibility. 
"It's a year after the big riot and people probably will celebrate this every year," sophomore Chris Shewring said. "We came down, because we knew the cops would be here overreacting as usual if some­

• STANFORD UNIVERSITY 
Increase in financial aid not a new idea 
STANFORD, Calif. 

Stanford's recent rise in financial aid and low tuition increase reflects a nationwide trend. The Board of Trustees announced in February that Stanford will spend an addition­al $3.8 million per year on financial aid. Next year, StanlcJrd tuition will increase by 3.8 percent, which is comparable to the low increase in tuition at other private universities. "During the 1980s, I remember that the increases in tuition [for Stanford] were much higher than those in the 1990s," said Cynthia Rife, director of student awards. In 1989, tuition was raised eight percent. Rife explained that the changes will affect about a third of Stanford's student popu­lation. They are applicable to current classes, as well as incoming freshmen. This trend has bnen apparnnt in other competitive private universities, such as Prineeton and Yale. There has been some speculation that sehools are choosing to increase their financial aid in order to remain eompetitive to applicants. According to dean of admissions and financial aid Robert Kinnally, Stanford's deeision was not influenced by the announcements of either Princeton or Yale. 
• GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY 
Ex-Clinton staffer will teach class 
WASHINGTON 

Lanny Davis, former special counsel to President Bill Clinton, will teach a class on damage control next fall in the School of Media and Public Affairs. Davis oversaw press relations during the campaign finance scandal, and was in charge of releasing potentially damaging informa­tion to the media. He was involved in the initial stages of the Monica Lewinsky controversy. "I am anxious to teach some of the lessons I learned in the Whitn !louse regard­ing the impact political scandals have on culture," Davis said. Davis' class, entitled, "Scandal, Damage Control and American Politics," will be offered as a course in politieal communications. "It's a wonderful opportunity for SMPA students to interaet with someone who has been recently involved in political communieation in practice at thn highest level," said SMPA Director Jean Folkerts. 
thing did happen. It's been great to watch.". 
Sophomorn Nathan Buskirk said, "everyone's just having fun. It hap­pened last year and is happening this year because it's like an anniversary." 
Officials blamed the 1997 distur­bance on a number of eauses, includ­ing early bar closings and spring fever. This year, police said media coverage "played a erucial role" in the disturbance. 
"It is my opinion that a large num­bnr of persons came to the area seek­ing a confrontation," said Athens poliee department chief Hick Mayer in a news release. "They were spurrnd on by at least two TV stations out of Columbus, Ohio, and other TV news sources. 
"I feel the media helped create the event and brought about a self-fulfill­ing prop~ecy that gave them a story to cover. 
Atlanta 74 53 Fargo 56 36 Milwaukee 49 39
~ ~ 

Boston 51 38 Honolulu 85 70 Phoenix 66 47 
Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 

Chicago 57 48 Hutchinson 67 47 San Diego 63 52 Cleveland 56 35 Las Vegas 63 45 Seattle 52 40 
Tuesday, April7, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Orchestra 
continued from page 1 
month. with an occasional weekend rehearsal. 
"I believe that this has been a great experience for the German orchestra, Saint Mary·~ students and South Bend resi­dents." Jacob said. 
The group is made up of 18 individuals, including Frost. The majority of the members arc students at local universi­ties studying in a wide variety of disciplines, such as medicine, special education, biology, psy­chology, engineering, arehitec­ture and music. 
"We hope that we play well, and that a lot of people can attend [tomorrow's) concert," said Martin Henneken. a mem­ber of the orchestra. 
The members had to com­plete an audition to become a part of the orchestra. 
The individuals "must be on a certain level," according to Frost. All of these young musi­cians and music students have won prizes in various regional musical competitions in Germany. 
Members of the orchestra have been staying with host families in the South Bend area. 
"Everyone is very nice and friendly," said Eva Henneken, a member of the orchestra. 
The concert is sponsored in part by a grant from the German Music Council; the members also had to pay some of the costs of their attendance, however. 
Jacob says that this has been a "good cultural exchange experience." He hopes that this exchange will lead to many more in the future. 
The Chamber Orchestra of the Hhine is closely bound to Johann Sebastian Bach's St. .John Passion. In order to per­form this work. Frost founded two ensembles: the Ilaldener Chamber Choir and the Chamber Orclwstra of the Rhine. 
With over a thousand people in attendance, the orchestra and the South Bend Chamber Singers performed St. John's Passion last Sunday under the conducting of Nancy Menk, chair and professor of music at Saint Mary's. 
"This was one of the largest audiences for any classical per­formance in South Bend in the last ten years," Jacob said, referring to Sunday's concert. 
In addition to its role accom­panying the Haldener Chamber Choir, the Chamber Orchestra of the Rhine quickly established itself as a musical entity in its own right, one which in collab­oration with a number of soloists then started performing concerts on its own. Thev have performed between so· to 60 concerts. 
In 1996. the group performed the world premiere of Professor Jacob's "Fantasy" for piano and string orchestra, written for and commissioned by Frost. 
In 1999, this group will be performing Bach's St. John Passion in Bern, Germany. The orchestra hopes to perform their next international concert in Russia. 
Frost studied composition at the Robert Schumann Musikhochschule in Dusseldorf under Professor Guenther Becker. He teaches music theo­ry at the Kreismusikschule Kleve and directs numerous ensembles. 
Frost is artistic director of the "reeserviert" concert series and director of radio concerts for ProFunk Kleve. He is also a lec­turer for film i'nusic at the University of Cologne and at the Volkshochschule Kleve. His main profession is composing, however. 
The concert will take place in Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium at 7:30p.m. Tickets for the concert can be pur­chased at the door. The cost is $10 for adults, $8 for senior cit­izens, $6 for Saint Mary's and Notre Dame community mem­bers, and $5 for students. 
Stonehenge sunbathing 


Leaders may add representative 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
News Editor 
The Campus Life Council held its first meeting under the Cesaro/Solak administra­tion last night, featuring a pre­sentation by Ryan Harding, president of the Club Coordination Council about why his organization should be included in next year's CLC. 
"We feel that the campus clubs are extremely vital to the campus life," Harding said. "Each of the five major club categories are represent­ed on our council. The 15 rep­resentatives of the CCC are all elected by their groups as a way of coordinating efforts between them. Our represen­tative will serve as an advo­cate to these interests on the CLC." 
Last week the council agreed to approve an amended set of bylaws that returned the council almost to its original, pre-student-government­reform-committee composi­tion. 
The council decided that, if it desires to add Harding to the Council, either a student representative must be replaced, or a faculty and staff representative must be added. 
"I think that probably the most important thing here is the ratio, not the number," said vice president of student affairs Bill Kirk. "If you add another student to the council, you would probably have to add a rector and a faculty member. Then you run into the problem of finding some­one else who is willing and able to put in the time com­mitment necessary." 

The council decided to dis­cuss this possibility in commit­tee over the coming weeks and address the topic further in its meeting on April 20. 
The council also established Community Life, Alcohol, Academics, Diversity, Undergraduate Finance and Campus Life Council Bylaws Review committees. Cesaro asked that every committee meet before the next CLC meeting in order to establish long term goals for the coming year. 
"The more we get dono and get set up early, the more wn can get donn to go ahead with the serious issues that affect the life on campus," he said. 

Got Something to Say? 
Be classy. 
Use Observer Classifieds. 




~~ .··~ 
It's time again to make baskets for the people of South Bend who probably wouldn't get a really good meal for Easter otherwise, and the WHC needs your help. We'll be assembling the baskets and helping families carry them to their cars. Please come-even if only for a few minutes. Thanks! Questions? Call Karen at x2297. 
Wednesday, April 8th, 3:30pm to 6:00pm Stepan Center 
Off-Campus Council presents: 
FREE FOOD NIGHT @ ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB 
Wed. April 8th, at 7:00 pm 


SO MUCH PIZZA!!! 
must be 21 
Tuesday, April 7, 1998

page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
Journal of Medicine and penalty]." he said. people didn't see it as a moral Philosophy and has written more Denvir also said that some issue, but as a matter of cost

Medal Denvir
than 500 articles and 17 books. states limit the amount that can and emotion," Den vir said. 
Matthew Umhofer, associate continued from page 1 
director of public relations for Georgetown and a 1994 graduate Edward Malloy. of Notre Dame, believes that "the 
"We are honored to salute him moment you meet Dr. Pellegrino, as a champion of what Pope John you see that his faith guides Paul II has called the 'culture of everything he does. lifo.'" "Dr. Pellegrino is a warm. kind, 
Dr. Pellegrino has had a long thoughtful. wise individual who and distin-integrates his guished faith into his career as a · w o r k , 
supporter 'DR. PELLEGRINO IS A WARM, research, and defend-KIND, THOUGHTFUL, WISE teaching, and er of relationships 
. INDIVIDUAL WHO INTEGRATES HIS
.1

C,ath0 I. IC 1I e almost seam­views. After FAITH INTO HIS WORK, REASEARCH lessly," he said. "lie is
r e c e i v i n g AND TEACHING ALMOST SEAMLESs­
his medical an unparal­cIcgree .rom" L".' leled thinker
·• New York MAITHEW UMHOFER in the philos­University Assoc/ATE IJIIIIiGTOI! OF I'UBLIC 11/JLAT/ONS, ophy Qf medi­
in 1944, he served med­ical residen­cies before becoming a research fellow in renal medicine and physiology at New York University. 
In 1959, he became professor and chairman of the department of medicine at the University of Kentucky Medical Center. He joined the medical faculty of the State University of New York at Stony Brook in 1966 and was appointed dean of the SUNY medical school two years later. 
Pellegrino was president of the Yale-New Haven Medical Center from 1975-78. During 1978-82, he was a professor of philosophy and biology at Catholic University of America in Washington. He has been a member of the Georgetown University faculty since 1982 and has served as the director of Georgetown's Kennedy Institute of Ethics, Center of the Advanced Study of Ethics and Center for Clinical Bioethics. 
He is also the founder of the 
GEOI!GETOWN UNIVHI!SI'IY cine and a strong voice for values that are often not those of society at large." Dr. Pellegrino is an outspoken opponent of managed health care and recently articulated his posi­tion in a debate with Alain Enthoven, a business professor at Stanford University. Enthoven is known as the father of managed care. Umhofer believes that Pellegrino's involvement in this debate demonstrates his strong conviction that doctors' responsi­bilities are to their patients. "Dr. Pellegrino believes that such a system turns doctors from a profession of caring into busi­ness people concerned with the bottom line," Umhofer said. The Laetare Medal was estab­lished at Notre Dame in 1883 and is the American counterpart of the Golden Rose, a papal honor that dates back to the 11th centu­ry. The medal bears the inscrip­tion, "Magna est veritas et prevalebit" -"Truth is mighty, and it shall prevail." 
continued from page 1 
you don't know who will get it," he said. 
From 1976 to 1997, 40 per­cent of death penalty recipients were African-American, though that group makes up only 12 percent of the population, Denvir explained. He also com­mented that the race of the vic­tim affected death penalty con­victions, also noting that 84 percent of homicide victims whose alleged assailants received an execution penalty were white, though 50 percent of all victims were black. 
"You may say that both should get it. But that's not what happens," Denvir said, describing the results of trials in which one victim is white and the other is black. 
These types of discrimination are difficult to combat, he argued, because the Supreme Court has said that these biases are "part of the system that cannot be rooted out. 
"Despite the figures, you have to prove your client was dis­criminated against. Unfortunately, the only way to do that is with statistics," he said. 
Denvir cited the O.J. Simpson lawsuit to explain the difficul­ties poor suspects have defend­ing themselves in legal cases. 
"[Simpson was] a traditional candidate for the death penalty, but he had enough money to hire a dream team of lawyers and they didn't seek [the death be spent on a defense, further impeding the ability of defend­ents to win their cases, and that appeallate courts have found that intoxicated or sleeping lawyers did not constitute a failure of the legal system to provide representation. 

"Who you will get among potential lawyers is a crap shoot. If you get a good one, you will evade the death penal­ty; if you get one who's not so good, you might get it," Denvir said of defendents who cannot afford to hire their own coun­sel. 
Denvir's largest concern with the death penalty is that it can­not be reversed in light of new evidence that establishes the innoeence of a convicted per­son, and advocates the alter­nate punishment of life impris­onment without possibility for parole. 
"One of the problems of the death penalty is it's finality, and that's daunting considering our justice system," he stated, cit­ing statistics that claimed that over 350 death penatly cases have been overturned due to the discovery of new evidence in recent years. But in 23 of those cases, he continued, the accused had already been exe­cuted. 
"Once you execute someone, that case is closed," he said. 
He also expressed a concern that citizens view the death penalty as a political issue that candidates for public office use to get elected. 
"Its distressing how many 
"Politicians know citizens have a fear of crime ... they can fan the fire and then say, 'Look, I'm tough on crime' It's a politi­cian's baby." 
Since the Supreme Court reinstated the death penalty in 1977, 40 states, the District of Columbia, the federal govern­ment and the military have allowed it as a punishment for crimes included in their juris­diction. Legal methods used in the United States include the gas chamber, electric chair, fir­ing squad, hanging and lethal injection. 
Denvir graduated from Notre Dame in 1962 with a degree in English. Following graduation, he served in the U.S. Navy for four years before enrolling in the American University, where he earned a master's degree in economics. He later graduated from the University of Chicago law school. 
Denvir began work as the directing attorney of the California Hural Legal Assistance in 1971, and then became the deputy public defender of Monterey County, California. 
He spent two years as chief counsel of the California Department of Health, worked in private practice, and was appointed to his current posi­tion in 1987. 
He has argued before the Supreme Court of California more than 25 times and has succeeded in obtaining the reversal of three death penalty verdicts. 


[Please Recycle The Observer. 
I 


Interested in being on the Sophomore Literary Festival committee tor next year? 
Applications due Friday, 


April 17 
For information, call Jim Bilek at 4-1744 

~·-----------·------------·--­

Tuesday, April 7, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORW NEWS BRIEFS 
Authorities rule out suicide in pop star death 
FRANKFURT, Germany 
German authorities investigating the death of Rob Pilatus. half of the former pop duo Milli Vanilli, said Monday they had found no evidence of suicide. Milli Vanilli's former producer, Frank Farian, said he suspected Pilatus died accidentally from a deadly com­bination of alcohol and prescription pills he was taking while in a drug withdrawal pro­gram. Pilatus, 33, was found dead Friday in a hotel room near Frankfurt. On Thursday, he had showed up "very intoxicated and shivering all over" at Farian's studio, the producer said. Farian said he and his part­ner Ingrid Segieth became worried when Pilatus did not answer the phone Friday afternoon, and asked the hotel to check the room. Farian said Pilatus was scheduled to fly to Bombay, India, on Wednesday. 
Technical problems cut short Mir spacewalk 
MOSCOW 
Technical problems forced two Russian cosmonauts to cut short their spacewalk on Monday and return to the Mir space station. Cosmonauts Talgat Musabayev and Nikolai Budarin succeeded in the primary aim of their mission -stabilizing a bent solar panel with a 5-foot metal splint -before being ordered to return to the space station to switch on a replacement thruster engine. While the two were in space, a thruster engine used to align Mir with the sun ran out of fuel, forcing the change in plans, Mission Control officials said. Mission Control chief Vladimir Solovyov said con­trollers had expected the fuel to run out, but not during the spacewalk. 
Vaccine may prevent infant diseases 
BALTIMORE 
An experimental vaccine is showing promise in giving infants immunity against a bacteria that can cause bacterial pneumonia, middle ear infection and meningitis, as a study released yesterday shows. It remains to be seen whether the vaccine actually prevents those diseases caused by Streptococcus pneu­moniae. Other long-term studies are under­way to determine that. The diseases affect millions of children worldwide, and can be especially deadly in developing nations. The study said the vaccine may have the potential to prevent about 85 percent of "invasive pneu­mococcal disease"-such as pneumonia, bac­terial meningitis and infection in the blood and 65 percent of middle ear infections in children in the United States. 
Dow 
}ONES 
Nasdaq: 
1829.14
9033.32 

-26.26 
NYSE: 
583.17 
+0.09 
S&P 500: 1121.39 -1.31
+49.82 

BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
IJMMN DCIS:fB 'HO:I~f I !:l~ltll £BICE 
COMMANDER AIRCRfT CMDR 90.91 1.25 2.63 800 TRAVEL I FLY 56.63 !.47 ·4.07 RIVERSIDE GROUP RSGI 50.00 0.75 2.2S GREERMN TECII GMTID 36.47 0.97 3.62 WICKES INC WIKS 36.44 1.47 5.50 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 
NATURAL HEALTH NtiTCD 46.67 1.75 2.00 
EDIFY CORP EDFY 37.93 6.87 11.25 ROBOTIC VISION ROBY 28.63 3.56 9.00 5CHLOTZ5KYS INC BUNZ 26.83 5.50 15.00 PACHE MEDICAL AM51 21.05 o.so 1.88 
• ISRAEL 

Arabs protest demolition of homes 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
SUWEIJ 

In a rare outpouring of anger, thousands of Israeli Arabs protested Israeli housing policies Monday, vowing to rebuild three homes authorities had demolished in this Arab village. 
Last week's demolitions were followed by the worst r;:lashes in decades involving Israel's one million Arab citizens, stir­ring deep-seated fears among the country's Jewish majority of an uprising from within. 
Israeli police watched the reconstruction in Suweij, a Bedouin village in Israel's northern Galilee, but did not interfere. Palestinian and green Islamic Movement flags flut­tered from the framework that rose amid the rubble of the destroyed homes and fields of yellow wildflowers. 
"If they come back and 
destroy it, we will rebuild it again, " Hani Gidar i said w:;,;;,_______;;;;;,_-'---'__..; Monday, taking a break from AFP Photo 
building the cinder-block Islamic banners and Palestinian flags were carried yesterday by a few thousand Israeli Arabs 
during their march from Shfaram to the small village of Um ai-Sehali in protest against the house. "I am not afraid, demolition of Bedouin homes by the Israeli authorities and alleged brutality by Israeli police. 
because I am doing what is right. We were here before they were." much more seriously," he told peace, legislator Abdel Malik 
Earlier Monday, thousands of Israeli reporters. Dahamshe said Monday. Arabs marched to protest the demoli-Salah Salim, an Arab member of But, "if the police will continue to tions and held a strike that closed Israel's parliament, said marchers push us, there will be an Arab inte­schools, offices and shops. were protesting the demolitions as well fadeh," he said, referring to the 1987­
"Instead of coming to demolish these as "years of discrimination and 93 Palestinian uprising against Israel's homes, they should remove those inequality." occupation of the West Bank and Gaza. homes," Abdallah Awad, 40, said, Israeli Arabs rarely engage in violent Suweij is one of dozens of unrecog­pointing at the neighboring Jewish protests like those in the West Bank nized villages in Israel's northern town of Adi. "Those homes are on our and Gaza, but long have complained of Galilee that receive no municipal ser­land." discrimination at the hands of the vices from the government. 
President Ezer Weizman said Monday Israeli government. They have full vot-Many of those villages were settled by he had warned Prime Minister ing rights, but are not required to serve Arabs displaced when their villages Benjamin Netanyahu that the Arab sit-in the army as Israeli Jews are and were destroyed during·the 1948 Middle uation was "going to explode." receive less government funding than East War, or by Bedouin forced off 
"I told the prime minister some time the country's Jewish majority. their land, said Eli Rekhess, professor 
ago that he has to take the Arab issue "We live like all citizens and want of Arab affairs at Tel Aviv University. 
-----~~-­
page 6 Tuesday, April 7, 1998
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


+Campus Ministry This Week + 




OFFICE OF 
CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hesburgh Library: 631-7800 112 Barlin Hall: 631-5242 Basilica Offices: 631-8463 
Tuesday, April 7, 7:00pm, Campus Ministry-Badin Office 
Campus Bible Study 
Tuesday, April 7, 7:00pm, Procession begins at the Grotto Campus Wide Candlelight 
Stations of the Cross 
Opportunity for Confession to follow at approximately 
9:30 pm in the Basilica. 
Goon Friday, April 10 -Sign-up by Tuesday, April 7 
"EL VIA CRUIS" (The Way of the Cross) 
In Chicago's Pilsen Neighborhood­"The heart of Chicago's Latino Community" Join Campus Ministry and the Center for Social Concerns as we celebrate with over 2000 faithful the traditional Latino reenactment of our Lord's Passion and Death in the streets of Pilsen, followed by reflection and a simple lunch. Please sign up at the Hesburgh Library Campus Ministry office or call Bianca Gaytan@ 634-4404...by TODAY, Tuesday, April 7. Cost is $5, which includes transportation and simple lunch. 
Saturday, April 11, 9:0Upnl, Easler Vigil, Basilica 
l~ CIA: Baptism, First Communion and Confirmation of Elect and Candidates. 
Wednesday, AprillS, 7:30-8:00 pm, Keenan-Stanford Chapel 

Taize Prayer 
Music: Contemporary Choir 
Friday-Saturday, April 24-25 
ARE YOU LESBIAN? GAY? BISEXUAL? 
QUESTIONING? 
ARE YOU A FRIEND OF SOMEONE WHO IS? 
Campus Ministry's SECOND ANNUAL RETREAT for lesbian, gay and bisexual undergraduate students and their friends has been rescheduled. For more information or to register, please call or eMmail: Kate, 1M5242 katharine.s.barrett.28@nd.edu Mark, 4M1933 mark.f.massoud.l@nd.edu Alyssa, 4-1884 alyssa.l.hellrung.S@nd.edu 
·~ 

Tuesday, April 7, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Artists on Display ... 

Alisha Barbee's "October Fire," 1998, was among the works displayed this weekend at the Saint Mary's Senior Comprehensive Exhibition. 


Visitors' Center director nallled 

Special to The Observer 
Maryanne Pfannerstill, most recently administrative assis­tant in the public relations and information office at Notre Dame, has been appointed director of the new Eck Notre Dame Visitors' Center, according to Dennis Moore, director of public rela­tions and information. 
In her new role, Pfannerstill will coordinate all aspects of the University's campus tour and visitor program, which includes a staff of 20 part-time student guides and three full-time guides in the sum­mer. 
Notre Dame provides free tours to tens of thousands of visitors annually, making the campus one of the most popu­lar tourist destinations in the Midwest. 
The tour and visitor infor­mation office will move next winter to expanded quarters in the new Eck Center now under construction on Notre Dame Avenue. 
A member of the public relations staff since 1990, 

Pfannerstill has coordinated office operations and served as editor of "This Week" the University's calendar of events. 
She will continue to serve as the public relations depart­mental computer consultant, a role that includes mainte­nance of the office's World Wide Web site http://www.nd. edul-prinfo/. 
For more information on Notre Dame tours, contact Pfannerstill at (219) 631-5726 or through e-mail at pfanner­still.l@nd.edu. 
~ 
.c 
Cl 

HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES IS GROWING, AND WE'D LIKE YOU TO JOIN US! Holy Cross Associates is adding a seventh community this fall. As such, we are still accepting applications for our program year starting in August. If you want to experience the most memorable year of your life, give us a call. Placements in: Promoting growth in: • Phoenix, AZ t Service • Hayward (Bay Area), CA • Colorado Springs, COt Simple Lifestyle • Brockton (Boston are), MA • Portland, ORt Spirituality • South Bend, IN • Wilkes-Barre, PA t Community Living Contact us at: PO Box 668, Notre Dame IN 46556 Phone: 1-5521 Fax: 1-6813 E-mail: ndhcassoc.1 @nd.edu APPLY ONLINE AT: http:/ /www.nd.edu: 80/ -hcassoc/  







VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Tuesday, April 7, 1998 
THE OBSERVER 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Rc:imhalcr Kyle Carlin 
As.<ISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Heather MacKenzie 

Nt:ws EDITOR .................. Matthew Loughran ADVERTISING MANAGER .........................Kris Klein VIEWPOINT ElliTOR .................. Eduardo Llull AD DESIGN MANAGER ........................ Bretr H uelat SI•ORTS EI>ITOR ..................... Kathleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER ..•.................. Michael Brouillet SCENE EDITORS... . ................. Sarah Dylag WEB ADMINI~;RATOR .................. Jennifer Breslow 
Krisri K.Jirsch CoNTROLI.ER .................................... Dave Rogero SAINT MARY's EDITOR ............. Shannon Ryan I'IIOTO EDITOR ........................ Kevin Dalum 
Thc Observer ir. the inclcpcndcm newspaper published by the student!. of the Univcrsiry of Notre Dame duLac and S01inr Mary's College. It docs not necessarily rdlccr the policies of the administration ofeither institmion. The ni:Ws is reported as accur;udy .md objectively .u possible. Unsigned cditoria1s rcprcscnl the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor· in-Chief. M.m"Sing Editor. Assistant Managing Edicor and dcpartmcm edirors. Commcmaries,lcncrs and columns prcK"nr the views of the authors, and not necessarily those" ofl11e· Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all membc~ of the Nnrrc llamc/Saim Mary's communiry .md to all rcadt"rs. The: fr« a:prcssion of varying opinions 1hruugh l('(1ers is encouraged. 
Contacting The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Assistant ME 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Spom 631-4543 Fax 631-6927 Scene//Saint Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu Day Editor/Vieweoint 631-5303 Ad E-Mail obscrvcr@darwin.cc.nd.edu Office Managcr/(,encrallnformarion 631-7471 News E-Mail observcr.obsnews.l @nd.edu 

• SHADES OF GRAY 
No Easy Answers to Immigration Question 
This country faces many questions that don't seem to have any right answers. Take immigration. On one hand, we live in a nation of immi-
Isaac Ruiz 

grants. On the other, there is a real need to control our borders (granted, some of' the reasons have little to do with immigration, like stopping the importation of illegal drugs). 
We read about the plight of 57 deaf Mexicans held in servitude in Queens while they sold trinkets in the subway trains. But we concede that farmers still rely on illegal immigrants for seasonal labor despite laws designed to prevent this. 
Last time I was home, I had a chance to talk to two immigrants ­a farmer and his wife -on their farm in South Texas. The weathered farmer and his wife sat in the shade enjoying the cool Gulf Coast breeze on an unusually mild day. He poured a shot of tequila (one a day is good for your health, he said), and they began to tell their story. 
Born in San Luis Potosi, Mexico, this man had what he considered to be an ordinary Mexican childhood. His fami­ly was poor and his schooling was lim­ited. 
I lis wife was born in a small village in Tamaulipas -the kind with homes made of mud. clay, and twigs. "I was never a child," says the farmer's wife. "I rnmember selling homemade breads and sweets on the street before I was live. 
''I'd nibble chunks off the sweets, and by the end of the day, the sweets I was selling were about half as big as ally the couple had raised enough they were in the morning," she laughs. money to make a trip to Mexico City, 
The two met in Las Flores, now a hot where they'd get their green cards. tourist attraction on the border, but The family settled at a workers' com­the couple remembers a very different mune in Santa Rosa, Texas. He Las Flores -one infected with vio­worked in vegetahle fields while she lence and prostitution. stayed home and cared for 
They married, and husband and wife resolved to give their chi!­
dren a better life. 
With this in mind, the farmer made several trips across the Rio Grande. He hoped that the money he'd earn as an illegal farmworker in Texas would help pay for his pregnant wife's med­ical bills. His first trip ended abruptly when he was arrested by border agents. 
But the trips continued, and eventu­

their child. "In the '50s and '60s, Mexican wives didn't 
work," she says. "So it wasn't surprising that my husband forbade me from working." 
Still, one day she dropped her son off at a neighbor's house. borrowed a hoe, and took a short walk to join the scores of workers in the fields. She remembers that her husband was upset for a couple of days, but she remarks, "Look where it got us." 
They left the commune by the time their son was old enough for school and settled in a sleepy town about ten miles away. "With a church on one side of' the house and a convent on the other," this was a great place to raise children, the farmer says. The man continued his labor in the fields of South Texas, while his wife worked as a seamstress. Before long, they owned their home. 
Meanwhile, the husband's patron let him farm small pieces of land, and for years the family (which had grown to include three boys and a girl) spent their after-schools and weekends tending to their small plots. With all there was to do, the farmer's wife says with a smile, "I don't think [they! looked forward to Spring Break and 
summer vacation like the other kids." 
But all of their hard work paid off. 
Today. the family owns and operates 
a successful produce farm in the 
sleepy town. "I think we've experi­
enced the American dream," the 
farmer says in Spanish. Indeed, the 
family has lived the dream -every­
thing from little league baseball to 
college graduation. 
He points over to the horizon, 
where the family's new home is being built. Last week, the farmer found out that one of the contractors had hired an illegal worker. On his way back to visit his bride, the worker drowned in the Rio Grande. The farmer prefers not to think about immigration reform, but he suggests that not much has changed in the past forty years. 
For this family, however, 40 years makes a big difference. The farmer ealls his wife vieja (old woman), and she calls him viejo. I call them mom and dad. 
Isaac Ruiz is a first-year law stu­dent. You can e-mail him at isaac. ruiz.13@nd. edu. His column appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the columnist and not nec­essarily those of The Observer . 

• 000NESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 

• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 
'It doesn't matter what 
you do in the bedroom as long as you don't do it in the street and frighten the horses.' 
-Mrs. Patrick Campbell 





VIEWPOINT
Tuesday, April 7, 1998 
• lETIER TO THE EDITOR 

Every Person Has a Voice 
The debate over the non-discrimina­tion clause -culminating in Father Garrick's resignation and last week's speakout -has grown so intense that some of us in the Notre Dame Coll~ge Hepublicans feel the need to express our unity with the Notre Dame student body by speaking up as well. 
First, we applaud the organizers of this week's speakout in support of Garrick. On a campus that has shown itself to be otherwise apathetic, these individuals have noted a real concern to many students and have devoted much of their time and energy to act upon it. An important part of the university set­ting should be the opportunity for sin­cere, intellectual discussion of various issues, academic, social, spiritual and otherwise. We can only live up to this ideal, however, if the communication is in the form of a two-way dialogue. 
Our generation has been accused of not caring. We have a miserable voting turnout and stand as a largely untapped political force. The adminis­tration should consider seri­
ously the weight of hundreds of students banding together and voicing their opinions in a controlled and mature manner. While it does not seem likely at this point, this passion on the part of the students may not last forev­er if the administration con­tinues to extinguish these glimmers of student activism. 
The College Hepublicans do give credit to the admin­istration for enacting the Spirit of Inclusion. While it is by no means the final solution to this problem, it is a step in the right direction and does indicate some con­cern on the part of the administration. We hope, however, that as a commu­nity of Notre Dame and of Christ, that we truly do live with a spirit of inclusion, and that this spirit applies not just to gays, lesbians and bisexuals. but to all of our fellow students whatever the differences may be among 
us. The Spirit of Inclusion must be more than empty words. 

Furthermore. we do not understand why this spirit cannot be expanded legally in the form of an addition to the non-discrimination clause. Simply not discriminating with regard to the issues covered by the clause such as admis­sions, scholarships and employment because an individual happens to be homosexual hardly compromises Notre Dame's Catholic character as long as the church teaching on practice of homosexuality remains known and respected. Adding sexual orientation to the non-discrimination clause should not be interpreted as the University condoning the homosexual act, but as the University taking another step toward the very Catholic ideal that all people be treated with dignity and fair­ness, as the Catechism itself calls for accepting homosexuals with "respect, compassion and sensitivity" (2358). It was well said at the rally that gays and lesbians do not want special rights, only equal rights. The policy should be adopted -however, all members of the Notre Dame family should keep in mind the very important fact that they do represent Notre Dame and, in effect, the Catholic Church, and should there­fore act accordingly. Along these lines, though we the writers have never met Garrick personally, we would like to point out that as a homosexual living in celibacy in accord with Catholic teach­ing, Garrick is a powerful example for gays and lesbians on campus. It is sad that he feels he has been discriminated 
against, and also that the community may be deprived of a model like him. 
On a slightly different note, though we do respect the powerful statement that the speakout was on the part of the stu­dents, we would like to raise one other matter of concern, and that is Colleen Gaughen's burning a copy of Right Reason. The College Hepublican organi­zation is not affiliated with this publica­tion. Nevertheless, we believe that Gaughen's action was uncalled for. While she has every right under the First Amendment to state her opinion even if through burning, we believe that such a move is funchtmentally wrong and shows a profound lack of respect for another's opinion, especially through the powerful medium of the printed word. for which individuals have died to defend. Gaughen should have thought more carefully before committing such a flagrant sign of dis­respect for another's opinion, especially since she writes for The Observer and 

surely would not desire to see her opin­ion treated as if it were trash. Perhaps a more appropriate way of handling the situation would be to respond to the paper in her own words or to invite dis­cussion on the issue. 
Our main point in this letter is that every person has a voice. We are all entitled to the right to speak with it, and deserve the respect of an attentive ear. As cliche as it may sound, this is an appropriate time to remind ourselves of the "Golden Rule," treating each other as we would like to be treated and lov­ing our neighbors as ourselves. The. supporters of the non-discrimination clause, our fellow students, have pro­vided us with an opportunity to unify as a student body not only in defense of our rights, but around this moral ideal. We can support each other and our church. God gave us voices and ears. Let us speak, let us listen, and let us live with a spirit of love and respect. · 
Laura Antkowiak Josh Guerra Terry Kiwala Matt Gentile J ennelle J arret Jamie Kuhn Seniors Notre Dame College Republicans April 6, 1998 
.•. . . •.. . ~ thiit ~~1$letter i~ ofno p~essirig irnpottance..u&~ do 
l wri ....·. as a mudslinging, ad hominem assault which Imust 
:say frequently appear in The Observ~r. It's just that I feel ~lle ·.... ~o!ll~H~ifig lndefen~~ of.aNotre D~p1edepart­:'Wlli be~Q B~tching ~great di:l.~l of grief{~:r the hi$~ few 
rnel'lt, ~~W{~om Chicago .uld ta.ke. itas a eompli­omment, I·admittedly 
"Vacation." I 





VIOLENT FEMMES STILL PLAYING 'AMERICAN MUSIC' AFTER 17 YEARS 
By SARAH DYLAG Scene Editor 

On Sunday evening at Elkhart's Elco Theater, the Violent Femmes proved to a crowd of less than 2,000 that they aro still on the cutting edge of the music scene. 
. Opening for the Femmes was the unknown Matt Wilson, who certainly did not please the crowd of die-hard Femmes fans. !lis quasi-philosophical lyrics and acoustical guitar sounds left some audience nwmbers questioning, "Is this song over yet?" 
"I think it's time for one of my sensi­tive songs," replied Wilson. 
lie proceeded to present another whiny, repetitive bitter love song for the unsupportive crowd. 
"You guys can buy my CD outside," he said, and the audience cheered as he lnft thn stage. 
Playing a mix of old favorites and newer relnases. the Femmes then took the stage and provided a show to entertain even the most conventional. popular-song-only fans. The audience remained enthusiastic throughout the show despite the no-alehohol policy and responded in full force to bass guitar player Brian Hitchie's demand for dancing. 
Highlights of the show included the lngendary hits "Blister in the Sun" and "American Music," as well as the song "Freak Magnet" from their new CD of the same title which will be in stores on May 19. 
The Femmes spent the evening play­ing more music than talking to the crowd, but they let their personalities show in their brief, but 
music. 

"That was a song with a melody," explained Richie at one point. "Now we're going to give you an example of a song without a melody." 
The band proceeded to play one of its angry rock tunes filled with spur of the moment jamming by lead singer and guitarist Gordon Gano and Richie. · 
They also amused the audi­ence with "Dahmer's Dead." 
a 

song a b o u t u r b a n death by a guy who started doing 
his killing right around here," said Gano before bursting into song. 
Throughout the show, the band incorporated a variety of instruments to enhance their sound, inducting two trombones, a flute and a miniature saxophone. 
Although the lighting at the Elco Theater left much to be desired, the small theater gave the concert an inti­mate feel and the crowd gathnred in the aisles up front for a closer look at the band. A 20-minutn section of mnl­low, slower songs, however, found some of the crowd sitting down to rest. 
As oxpected, thn Femmes dosed thn regular set with the infamous "Add it Up" and the crowd went wild. Thny returned for a two song encore which included "Kiss Off" before oxiting tlw stage for the night. 
"I have to admit, you've been ... great," said a somewhat sarcastic Gano at the end of the show. "Maybe you could quit whattwt~r you're doing and come to every show with us. Hopefully, you're independently wealthy." 
Left: Gordon Gano (right) and Guy Hoffman entertain the crowd side-by­side during their performance Sunday night at the Elco Performing Arts Center. 


Left: Gano, the lead singer and guitarist, led the Violent Femmes through a mix of old and new during Sunday night's concert in Elkhart. 
Right top: Opening act Matt Wilson was a disap­pointment for anxious Femmes fans. 
Right bottom: The Violent Femmes attracted an enthusiastic crowd who danced and sang the night away in the Elco Performing Arts Center. 
Photos taken by The Observer/Liz Lang 


J 

UNDERTONES 

MUSICAL GREATNESS 
By JILLIAN DePAUL Scene W rirer 
The Undertones are an all-male pop a cappella ensemble comprised of eight Notre Dame students whose musical interpretations range from Billy Joel to the Jackson 5. 
The Undertones were formed during the first semester of the 1997-98 acad­emic year by Bryan Labutta and Keith Cosbey, both freshmen at the time, who began to recruit other interested students to form their own a cappella group. 
The next members to join the group were Patrick Quigley, who arranges the numbers that the Undertones perform, and Adam Charney. 
Since the first four members of the Undertones were all tenors, they decided that they needed to diw~rsify their sound. They accomplished this by enlisting the talents of baritone Zachary Gustafson and bass Kirk Bagrowski. All six of the original members were freshmen at the time, with the exception of Bagrowski, who was a sophomore. 
The breakthrough performance for the group, which was then known as either "A to Z" or "Five Freshmen and a Guy Named Kirk," came at last year's Christmas Concert when they sang "The Virgin Mary Had a Baby Boy." This helped the Undertones gain rPcognition in the Notre Dame music scene. 
In their second year, the Undertones are still growing, having added two new members in sophomore Ryan Marriotti and freshman John Pennachio. They are also gaining experience by performing more than they did last year. Last semester, they performed several concerts at female dorms both on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. 
Future performances include a concert at Badin Hall, the date of which is still undetermined, and an Antostal performance on April 20 at 4:30 p.m. at the Fieldhouse Mall. The group also plans to record a compact disc, which is as yet untitled, beginning the week after Easter Break. 
The Undertones competed well this year in their first National Championship of College A Cappella Tournament, achieveing the honor of being one of 36 groups to make it to the Semi-Final round, out of an original 120. 
After placing second at the Hegional Finals at the University of Michigan, the group traveled to Penn State University this past weekend to compete in the semi-finals. They performed a 15 minute set including "ABC" by the Jackson 
5. "Kiss the Girl," from the soundtrack to the "The Little Mermaid," "The King of Wishful Thinking," by Go West, and a Barber Shop number called "I Used to Call Her Baby." 
They met some fierce competition, however, and did not place at the semi­finals. Despite the outcome, Quigley thought that the experience was a valuable one. "It was absolutely worth every minute we put into it because we became a better group because of it," he explained. 

NDERWAY TO 
Photos courtesy of The Undertones 

Top: The Undertones all dressed up at the semi-finals of the National Championship of College A Cappella, held this past weekend at Penn State University. 
Center: This marquee announces the quarter-finals of the championship, which was held in Ann Arbor during the last weekend of January. 
Bottom: The Undertones bow down to the women of Le Mans Hall after a perfor­mance last November. 
... 
.. 
-.... 

.r--------------------------------~-----------------~---~---~­
Tuesday, April 7, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 12 
MeGwire honored fOr tying NL home run record 
Associared Press 
NEW YORK 
St. Louis Cardinals slugger Mark McGwire, who tied a National League record with four home runs in his first four games of the season, is the NL's player of the week. 
Seattle's David Segui, who also hit four home runs in the first week of the season. and Tampa Bay's Quinton McCracken. who had 14 hits, tied for American League play­er of the week honors. 
McGwire's home run splurge tied a record set by Hall of Famer Willie Mays. MeGwire finishnd the wcnk with a .400 batting average. 12 HB Is, five runs scored, one double and six walks. 
Others considered for the NL award were Florida's Clill' Floyd 

.. 
and Gary Sheffield, San Francisco's Jeff Kent, Los Angeles Hamon Martinez, Cincinnati's Brett Tomko, Philadelphia's Curt Schilling and Milwaukee's Jeromy Burnitz. 
Segui's week also ineluded a .450 batting average, nine HB!s, eight runs scored and four dou­bles in five games. 
McCracken hit .483, with seven runs and two doubles in six games for the nxpansion Dnvil Hays. 
Glenallen Hill of Seattle, Ivan Hodriguez of Texas and Dean Palmnr of Kansas City also were considered for the AL award. 
Milwaukee ~. Florida 5 
Jeff Cirillo was 4-for-5 with three doubles and 2 HBI as the Brewers recorded their first series sweep in the National League by defeating the Marlins. 8-5. 
Milwaukee took all four games versus Florida and have won five straight. The Marlins have dropped six in a row since winning on opening day. 
The Brewers jumped on Florida stater Felix lleredia for two runs in the first inning and two more in the second. 
John Jaha, who later left the game with tightness in his back, grounded out to plate Fernando Vina with the game's first run. Jeromy Burnitz then lofted a sac 11y to score Cirillo and make the score 2-0. 
Florida responded with a run of its own in the bottom half of the first. Cliff Floyd singled, stole second and came home on Edgar Renteria's base hit. 
The Brewers added three runs in the fifth on HBI singles by Mare Newfield, Vina, and Cirillo. Cirillo made the score 8­4 with a run-scoring double in the seventh. 
Steve Woodard (2-0) allowed one run in 3 1/3 innings on two hits to pick up his second win of the series. Doug Jones pitched the ninth for his second save . 
Heredia (0-2) gave up seven runs -five earned -in 4 2/3 innings. lie allowed eight hits and four walks while striking out five. 
Angels 2, Red Sox 1 
Chuck Finley and Pedro Martinez dueled on even terms into the late innings, and Matt Walbeck's RBI single in the 11th Monday night gave the Anaheim Angels a 2-1 win over the Boston Red Sox. 
Finley pitched nine innings for the Angels, striking out 10. He allowed one run and four hits, with two walks. 
Martinez, making his second AL start, struck out nine in seven innings. He gave up one run and seven hits, and walked three. 
Garret Anderson drew a one­out walk in the 11th from Tom Gordon (0-1) and took third on Carlos Garcia's hit-and-run sin­gle. 
Anderson scored when Walbeck -whose throwing error led to Boston's only run­lifted a long 11y that fell a few feet inside the left-field line and over the head of drawn-in Troy O'Leary. 

Mike Holtz (1-0) earned the victory by pitching a perfect 11th inning in his 1OOth major league appearance. 
Martinez, who pitched seven scoreless innings and struck out 11 on opening day against Oakland, gave up his first AL run in the opening inning. 
Dave Hollins, 1-for-7 against Martinez while with Philadelphia, doubled down the first-base line and scored when Jim Edmonds blooped an oppo­site-field single with two outs. 
The Angels loaded the bases against Martinez with one out in the fifth on singles by Darin Erstad and Hollins and a walk to Tim Salmon. But Martinez escaped by retiring Edmonds on a foul pop and striking out Cecil Fielder on a high, inside fast­ball. 
Shut out on one hit for five innings, the Red Sox tied it in the sixth. 

Darren Lewis led off with a single, stole second and contin­ued to third when catcher Walbeck's throw bounced into center field. Mo Vaughn's single made it 1-all. 
Mariners 8, Yankees 0 
Jamie Moyer struck out 11 in seven innings and Alex Rodriguez hit a two-run homer as the Seattle Mariners defeat­ed New York 8-0 Monday night. 
The Mariners continued their mastery over the Yankees in the Kingdome, beating them for the 18th time in 22 games, includ­ing the 1995 AL playoffs. 
Moyer (1-1) and Paul Spoljaric combined on a three­hitter and fanned 15, dropping New York to 1-4. Ken Grill'ey Jr. and David Segui hit RBI singles off Andy Pettitte (0-2) in the first inning, and Hodriguez made it 4-0 with his homer in the fifth. 
Moyer beat the Yankees for the fifth straight time. Spoljaric pitched two hitless innings and struck out four. Tino Martinez, Bernifl Williams and Paul O'Neill each fanned three times. 
Pettitte, the loser in the Yankees' opener, was hit in the right thigh by Hodriguez's line drive in the third. In his next at­bat. 
Hodriguez hit a 433-foot homer into the second deck in left field. 
Down 2-0, the Yankees loaded the bases in the third, and Martinez sliced a line drive between Glenallen llill and the left-field line. llill, who had made an earlier error, was almost fully extended as he made a backhanded catch while tumbling to the turf. 

The Observer acceprs classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. ar rhe Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. 10 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas~
Classifieds sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per characrcr per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classif!eds for content without issuing refunds. 
Taking deposits for  5-speed, 50,000 mi. Stored winters.  I love wicket  
NOTICES  Family of 1 1/2 year old and soon to be newborn. looking for part-time,  98-99 sci. yr. 277-5483.  $2,995. '674-5104 Bob Hull  from salsa, chatterbox, and brid­gette  I motion that you stop making motions. ·  
flexible babysitter. Person must be  
THE COPY SHOP - available one day a week (part day)  ALL SIZE HOMES  For Sale: Convenient condo living  ADOPTION: Hugs, daisies and  kk and sd-where y'all been?  
LaFortune Student Center  and some weekend nights. Great  CLOSE TO CAMPUS  just a few blocks from Notre Dame.  babbling brooks in summer.  
•  WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE, AND WEEKENDS!!!  extra money! Please call Traci or Ben at 291-3524.  232-2595  Recently remodeled including bath­room fixtures. 3 bedrooms, 2 full  Snuggles, skisuits and a toasty fire­place in winter. Love and joy for  hac. when·s the last time we went on a field trip together?  
Men -Thur 7:30am -Midnight  2 College Park Apts avail for sum­ baths & access to clubhouse with  your baby all year long. Happy, car­ 
Fri 7:30am -7:00pm  Need 1 roommate for summer.  mer. 243-5668  pool & work out room. Call Trace  ing professional couple would love  all we like sheep  
Sat Noon -6:00pm  7 mins from campus.  Cole at 243-9565 for more informa­ to provide a newborn with love. joy  
Sun Noon · Midnight  Pool, tennis courts,$230/month  FURNISHED 6 BDRM NEAR CAM­ tion.  and security. Call Ed and Ellen at 1­ Iori a- 
CALL 631-COPY  Call Jeremy 273-5463  PUS.WASHER/DRYER.  800-484-7011 Pin #4523  feeling out of the classifteds loop?  
ILOST & FOUND I  FOR RENT  FALUSUMMER.272-6551  FURNITURE-All kinds, low prices, from a CP apt.-call271-7458  Job applications for 98-99: LaFortune Building Managers  lets senior it on thursday night as usual. call me. --jh  
1,2,3&4 BDRM HOMES NEAR  Stepan Managers  
LOST: Man's silver bracelet  Now Renting  CAMPUS.GILLIS PROPERTIES  Recliner, Fitness Flyer workout  Information Desk Attendants  Dan- 
somewhere on campus. Great  Campus View  272-6551  machine, luggage rack for car, din­ Ballroom Monitors  Near. far, wherever you are ..  
sentimental value. Please call  1 & 2 Bedrooms  ing set for two. Best offers. Will sell  Office Assistants  
Danny at 273·0147. Reward  2 Blocks from campus  DOMUS PROPERTIES  each individually. Call Kevin at 257­ Games Room Attendants  Bry­ 
offered. THANX  272-1441  0653  Building Set Up Crew  1 was just thinking about thursday  
NOW LEASING 2 HOMES  24 Hr. Lounge Monitors  night ala London ...  
WANTED  Second round of leasing at College Park Condominiums. few units still  Capacity from 6 -9 students Heat inc. in rent. Both homes are in  TICKETS  Cake Service Sound Techs  so, bar golf huh? can i have a  
available. Please contact office for  student populated areas.  are due in Student Activities by  caddy?  
CRUISE SHIP & LAND-TOUR  appointment 272-0691.  Completely remodeled and ready  CUBS TICKETS!!!!  Thursday, April 9. APPLY NOW!  
JOBS -Excellent benefits. World  .for the 98/99 schoolyear.  you know, you just have to watch  
Travel. Ask us how! 517-324-3090  Very Reasonable Rent  Call Kramer at 674-2571  SIX Cubs tickets for the 18th of  How do I tell them that due to the  out for I USB night ..  
ext. C55841  Looking for mature adult, or grad  or 289-5999.  April. Lower deck on the third base  unfreezing process, I have no inner  
student ...  line .... GREAT SEATS FOR  monologue .....  at least I can do my own taxes ..  
Need a summer job? ND Alums  SUMMER RENTALS AVAILABLE  CHEAP. These are must sells, so  
looking for a warm. energetic stu­ Send inquiries to:  Lease from June to Aug. 1.  any offer for these tickets are  well, until the IRS tells me other­ 
dent to care for our 3 children (ages  PTS  All houses are surrounded by other  appreciated.  LOOKING FOR A JOB FOR THE  wise  
5, 3 & newborn). Daytime Daytime  1705 South Bend Ave.  student rentals. Call Kramer at 674­ '98-'99 ACADEMIC YEAR?  
hours. no weekends. June-mid­ So. Bend, IN 46637  2571 or 289-5999.  Contact Bryan at X4948  THE COPY SHOP in LaFortune is  You want to meet Victoria, huh?  
August. Live in or out  now accepting applications for next  
(private bed/bath). Great location in Pasadena. CA. Will pay travel  1014 N. St. Louis St.  PERSONAL  fall. Student positions are limited so apply early.  Keepin' it all in the family.  
to/from CA. Negotiable wage. Call  1 bdrm apt  4 bdrms, 2 oaths, all appliances,  I hope life isn't one big joke  
Mimi @ 626-794-5426 or e-mail  for summer  furnished. Walking distance to cam­ CLASS OF '98  hey there my little honey bunches  because I don't get it.  
MimiandPT@msn.com·  243-4920  pus. 234-1440.  L  of oats ...  
A  Autumn and Catherine-We sur­ 
SUMMER AND FALL EMPLOY­ FREE SUMMER STORAGE  S SENIOR  11 pm huh?  vived the loop. Good trip girls.  
MENT: DECISION SCIENCES  College Park Apartment  '98-'99. 4-6BED. 2-CAR GAR.  S WEEK  
JOURNAL  For Rent During  WID. V-BALL CT. VERY SAFE.  Or was it 11:15  CK,  
Student who can work 8·12 hours  Summer Session  234-3831/273-0482  0  Thanks for everything these last  
per week. Must have an eye for  Call 4-4012  F IS  ah, what the heck-make it pari­ few weeks! You are a fabulous  
detail, organized & able to work independently. For more informa·  Nice 5 bdrm. 2 bath full basement.  FOR SALE  9 COMING  etals.  friend!  
tion call Lori Butchko, 631-9084.  Walking distance to campus.  8  whats with the obsession with pig  Feminism is a beautiful concept.  
MW 8-5 or Friday B·noon.  350/rm. utilities & appl., WiD incl.  1984 Volkswagen Cabaret convert.  tails?  


Tuesday, April 7, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 13 
Puckett goes home after weekend crash 
Associated Press 
EDINA, Minn. 

Kirby Puckett, who retired from the Minnesota Twins after glaucoma left him blind in his right eye, was at home Monday following a weekend car crash that hospitalized him with cuts on his arm and head. 
The former Minnesota Twins star had been heading home with his father-in-law from a fishing trip when his car rolled over on its roof. His father-in-law was not hospitalized. 
Puckett was held for observa­tion at Fairview-Southdale Hospital in Edina and was released before 8 a.m. Monday, a nursing supervisor said. 
Seart;IIIttg J?•l!:.~.l~rt•~!t'II!J\.~·~•·vtt;•~ · att(l Pt•off~sslott~lv~oplf~s•)~ 
. 70}~: ~ *~~ • ' 
At The Copy Shop in the LaFortune Student Center you'll find high-speed copies that no one can match, and you'll get a smile when you walk in the door. Our representatives are easy to approach and eager to help you with all your needs. Our copies are fast and professional, which means you won't have to worry about how they'll look or if you 'II get them on time. Our customers always come first. 
I 

*The Most Affordable Stud.ent Housing * 
I 
304 O"SBAUGHNESSY HALL 

One &Two Bedroom Apts Available for the
fOP mOP6 mfopmal;/on, sl;op bp 
onP dapanmant offlca 
'98,'99 School Year 

oP ca/Il-Tl95 
Summer Rentals June,August. (Check our summer storage specials) 

COURSE OfFERINGS 
FALL 1'1'1R 

BEGINNING LATIN I (CLLA 101) T. Mazurek, Banas Crosslist GRADUATE LATIN (CLLA501 01. 02) 
INTERMEDIATE LATIN I (CLLA 103) Krostenko 
INTENSIVE LATIN I (CLLA 115) Schlegel Crosslist GRADUATE LATIN (CLLA 501 03) 
AGE OF CICERO (CLLA 350) Krostenko MEDIEVAL LATIN I (CLLA475) Sheerin Crosslist MI 475, MI 575A 
GREEK 
BEGINNING GREEK I (CLGR 101) E. Mazurek Crosslist GRADUATE GREEK (CLGR 501) INTERMEDIATE GREEK (CLGR I03) Vacca GREEK ORATORS (CLGR 470) Ladouceur 
CLASSICAL LITERATURE/CULTURE 

ROMAN LITERATURE AND CULTURE (CLAS 301) Sheerin Crosslist ENGL 413 
GREEK HISTORY (CLAS 305) Vacca Crosslist HIST 305 

SURVEY OF GREEK & ROMAN ART (CLAS 321) Rhodes Crosslist ARHI 321 
HIEROGLYPHS AND HISTORY (CLAS 330) Ladouceur Crosslist HIST 303, AFAM 330 
WOMEN IN ANTIQUITY (CLAS 355) E. Mazurek Crosslist HIST 312, GSC 355 

Puckett, whose visual problems do not prohibit him from driving, was behind the wheel. His sport­utility vehicle veered onto the shoulder and off the pavement of Interstate 35W near Mounds View, said Cathy Clark, spokes­woman for the Department of Public Safety. She said Puckett overcorrected when he swung back on the road and the car rolled. 
Both were wearing seat belts in the crash, Clark said. 
"He's a very fortunate man," said Dr. William Omlie, a sur­geon who treated Puckett. "If he was not wearing a seat belt, his injuries would obviously have been much more severe." 
Rick Carlson, who helped pull 
ANTIQUE & EARLY CHRISTIAN ART (CLAS 431) Barber CrosslistARHI 431, Ml 431, MI 531B,ARHI 531 
GREEK & ROMAN MYTHOLOGY (CLAS 450) Schlegel Crosslist ENGL 413B 
miSII 

Puckett from the vehicle, said Puckett led the Twins to World Puckett was coherent and did not Series titles in 1987 and 1991. appear to be badly hurt. He was forced out of the game in 
Carlson said some motorists 1996 when an early form of stopped, gawked and took items glaucoma left him blind in his from Puckett's vehicle that had right eye. He continues to work scattered across the highway. for the Twins. His ophthalmolo­
"They were pocketing stuff and gist said 37 -year-old former out­running to their cars," Carlson fielder still can see well enough said. He said some of the items to drive safely. included an unopened box of "His other eye is entirely nor­crayons, papers and items that mal. His vision is 20/20 or better, looked like compact discs. and his visual field is entirely 
"I felt sorry because of these normal," said Dr. Tom scavengers ... and here's this guy Samuelson, a glaucoma special­flipped over and hurt," Carlson ist. said. "That's just terrible." The Minnesota State Patrol 
But other eyewitnesses told said no drugs or alcohol were KSTP-TV that passersby were involved in the crash, and that only helping Puckett gather his Puckett's eyesight was not a fac­
belongings. tor. 



LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Phone 631-COPY 
'1,111~ (~f)l1Y Sllf)JI 
J)I~I..JlTJ~llS IJf)'l,ll f)l~ 'fiii~SI~! 
Monday-Thursday:7:30 am to Midnight Friday: 7:30 am to 7:00 pm Saturday: Noon to 6:00 pm • Sunday: Noon to Midnight 

Quality Copies, 
Quickly!™ 
Copyright 1998 • All Flights Reserved 
• SAINT MARY's TRACK 


Four Belles place in track meet 
ByJANICE WEIERS 
Sports Writer 
Small but mighty. 
The Saint Mary's track team traveled to Manchester College on Saturday with only five mem­bers and came home with place­finishers in four events. 
Although the team is small in number, Coach Larry Szczechowski is proud of the way his squad has been training. 
"The people we have work real hard, do a good job at prac­tice and have been improving," said Szczechowski. "There aren't many people, but they have all worked hard to get where they are." 
Allyson Treloar threw her way to a first place in the javelin with a mark of 117 feet, 8 inches. Sharis Long leaped to a third­place finish in the 400-meter hurdles, while fellow-trackster Sarah Gallagher landed a sixth place in the 100-meter hurdles event. Ashley Dickerson hurled the shot put 29 feet, 8 inches for a seventh-place fmish. 
The team was very pleased with the final outcome of the meet. "This is exactly what we needed, " said Gallagher. "It was a good day for everyone, and although we didn't win overall, I think we all left with a good feel­ing." 
The team has high hopes for the remainder of the season as well. "I think that we're starting to pull together more as a team," added Long. "And hope­fully the team can keep this posi­tive attitude." 
As well as high spirits. 
The team will be attempt to increase their improvement when they travel to Adrian College on Wednesday. 
• 
-
BEGINNING IRISH I (CUR 101) McQuillan CrosslistGRADUATE IRISH (CLIR 501) 

INTERMEDIATE IRISH (CUR 103) McQuillan Crosslist GRADUATE INTERMED. IRISH (CLIR 503) 
ARABIC 

CONTINUING ARABIC (MEAR 103) Afsaruddin 
MIDDLE EASTERN LITERATURE/ HISTORY 
MIDDLE EAST HISTORY (MELC 240) Amar Crosslist HIST 243, HIST 243F 

TilE GOLDEN AGE OF ISLAMIC CIVILIZATION (MELC 260) Afsaruddin Crosslist HIST 260, MI 260 
HEBREW 

ELEMENTARY BIBLICAL HEBREW I (MEHE 481) Najman Crosslist THEO 307A, 507A 
.L 

EEKEND 

·CQUETBALL J;OURNAMENT 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY APRIL 17 & APRIL 18 JOYCE CENTER Men's & Women's Divisions T -Shirts to all Participants Bring Your Own Racquet Balls Will be Provided Refreshments Will be Served 
Register in Advance at ~"'"=y~-.<=",;;=­Deadline: Wednesday, April 15 $8.00 Fee 
_ _j 

-Th~·obs'"e~ver ·SPORTS 



Bookstore 
continued from page 20 
did in fact choke and fell to TCB in a Flash by a score of 21-17. Meatloaf, SDII Food, and 3 Other Leftovers That Suck lost 21-8, while If You Don't Beat Us You Suck fell 21-13. Res Life All-Star Drinking Team proved they're also pretty good at bas­ketball, knocking off Basketball Powers 21-18. 
Still No Skills showed the spirit of Bookstore Basketball and put on one of the best com­edy acts of the afternoon. 
"I think we spent more time coordinating our outfits than coming up with a game plan," said Steve "The Wizard" Desch. 
Playing before a large crowd, the outrageously dressed ali­Keough Hall team was blown out 21-4, shooting a combined 0-for-7 from half court. However, they did run their "amoeba" play to perfection when Tim McConville, sur­rounded by his teammates holding hands, broke free and hit a jump shot early in the con­test. But A.J. Boyd, clad in Russian garb, Brian "B-Job" Johnsen, dressed in flamboyant 
King Rax players' Sean Casey (left with ball) and Josh Cahill (right) fell

purple, and Liam Thiedmann, 
short against C.H.O. Deaters in yesterday's competition. 

wearing a suit and sneakers, were held scoreless. game." five-on-five tournament has 
"This is the team's third year So far the commissioners continued to flourish. in action and first since coming have had to deal with a good Bookstore XXVII gets into full over from Grace," said specta­number of forfeits and resched­swing when the round of 512 tor and friend of the team, uling, but other than that starts this afternoon. Seeded Aaron Nolan. "Although the Bookstore Basketball is running teams will see their first action team members have changed, smoothly and the tradition and of the tournament and the com­they have still yet to win a the spirit of the nation's largest petition promises to pick up. 


No Summer Plans?? 
SuMMeR SeRviCe PRoJEcTS 
AVAJLABLE(ND students only) 
•$1,700 Scholarship/3 credits 
•8 Weeks volunteer work 
In Cities of ND Alumni Clubs 
Applications available: at the Center for Social Concerns 
Projects available in: 
Charleston, SC education & community outreach (car) Charlotte refugee program, tutor, etc. Cincinnati local student Cleveland local student Columbus, OH local student Detroit Red Cross -Bone Marrow Drive 
La Sed -Hispanic Comm. Cntr Ft. Wayne Boys & Girls Club (car) Fort Lauderdale Covent House-teens (male-car) Idaho La Posada -migrant workers (spanish) Indianapolis St. Phillip Neri -kids program Kokomo, IN YWCA shelter for women and kids Michigan City,IN camp for devel. disabled adults Plymouth, IN Boys & Girls Club Dixon, IL Disabilities program esc 
• . .
.

and more 
. ­

Stop in for more information or call: Sue Cunningham 1-7867 or Erika Fuehrmeyer 4-1384 
• 
page 14 

C.H.O. Deaters def King Rax STR8 Buttah def If You Don't Beat Us You Suck Res Life All-Star Drinking Team def Basketball Powers TCB in a Flash def We Choke Like Spreewell 
All the Presidents Interns def Meatloaf SDH Food and Otherleftovers That Suck Woo's Warriors def The Pleasure Palisades Elmo Slap def Truck Stop Vapain def Fahgetaboutit 
Bullshippers II: Return of the Fernie Dog def Pang Born to Be Wild 
Team 97 def Big Al's Gun Shop and Erotic Massage 
Hoiby's Hoopsters II def Team 36 lJ 
The Family Business def the Deering Tornadoes Woody Brigade def Still No Skills Stranger def Team 443 Grundle Pirates def Dunston Checks In 
The 5 Bohemian Broomskies def The Flying Cadaver's Fan Club 
The Observer/Melissa Weber 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Golf Scramble -Stanford 
Hall will be sponsoring a nine­
hole golf scramble on April 18 
for teams of four. Fee is $40 
per group. For more informa­
tion call Gene at 4-2049. 
ND Tai Chi/Kung Fu Club ­
The club meets every Sunday 
at the Hockne Memorial, 10 
a.m. to noon in room 219. Please call Teo at 4-3013 or email cteodoro@nd.edu. 
Casting & Angling Clinic -RecSports will be sponsoring a clinic on April 14, 21 and 23 from 6-7:15 p.m. The fee is $8 for the class and it is open to all. Advance registration in the RecSports office is required. 
Weekend Racquetball Tournament -Offered April 17·18 at the Joyce Center. Matches will begin at 5:50p.m. on Friday and 10 a.m. on Saturday. The entry fee is $8. Participants need to register in advance at RecSports. The deadline for registering is April 15 at 6. 

Drop-In Volleyball RecSports will be sponsoring it every Wednesday and Friday from 8-11 p.m. in the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. 
Drop-In Badminton -RecSports will be sponsoring every Friday from 7-10 p.m. in the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center for the rest of the semester. 
Race Judicata -A 10K road race, 5K road race, and a one mile walk will take place Saturday April 4 at 11 a.m. beginning at the Law School. Registration will take place between April1 and April 3 in the dining halls. and at Rolfs Recreation Center or on the race day at the Law School. Cost is $10 in advance and $12 on race dayfor students. 
251-0674 

MATUBA 

JAPANESE RESTAURANT 
•Authentic•Healthy•Delicious 
Robert is the BEST Chef in Town! 
2930 E. McKinley Ave• South Bend. IN 

1.11/lthl I \lu•1 • '11"111'",' •I ''' Xt' 'Jl) Ill &•.S.1I 



MEN IN BLACK 7{)hJ-Me ~? 7fJ~t4~~? 


~. '8dt 7flad. e.s.e
~-fl'-~. e.s.e 

7~n HeMe~ tUe tk. 
~c4~~~~~~ 
~s~ • ~ v<Uflle. 1~ 46556 (2!9) 631-639'5. Mtp.://~.d.Wt./-~ 
ANSWER~ 

THE CALL'<!:/
...... 

Tuesday, April 7, 1998 . The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• WOMEN'S TENNIS ·• SAINT MARY'S TENNIS 







Velasco highlights weekend Saint Mary's blown 
By TIM CASEY Notre Dame. ed from their loss to score a 
away by U of Chicago 
Sports Writer Included were two, three set decisive 8_-1 victory over 
battles in which the Irish won Maryland and improve their 
The women's tennis team the initial set before succumbing record to 13-7 on the year. By VICTORIA BUTCKO captured victories for the started their five-match road trip in the final two. All five singles wins came via Sports Writer Irish, winning her match in this past weekend with mixed At No. 4 singles, Notre Dame's straight sets, highlighted by three sets with scores of 6-1, results. Tiffany Gates was victorious in Hall's victory at first singles. Hall Chicago, notoriously called 4-6, and 6-4. 
The 16th ranked Irish lost on the first set against Tari Ann proved too much for the "the windy city," lived up to its Kremer continued her win­Saturday afternoon to William Toro, but Toro came back to win Terrapin's top player, defeating reputation Saturday as the ning streak with partner, and Mary by an 8-1 margin but 3-6, 6-3, 6-1. Meg Griffin 6-3, 7-5. Belles struggled with blowing sophomore Mary Woodka at bounced back the next day to Lindsay Sullivan, the Tribe's The most lopsided victory of conditions, a noisy back-the No.2 doubles spot, defeat­record an 8-1 victory over No. 6 singles player, recorded a the afternoon came at fourth sin­ground and strong competi-ing opponents in a pro set, 8­Maryland. straight set victory over Kelley gles. tion. 2. 
William and Mary brought an Olson 6-3, 7-5. The Irish's Gates, who suffered The Saint r---------------, The No. 1 11-4 record and national rank­The match of the day occurred a three set heartbreaker on Mary's tennis doubles team ing of 11th into the match at No. 3 singles between Notre Saturday, blitzed her opponent, team (4-6) lost of junior co-against Notre Dame. Dame's Marisa Velasco and Stacy Walkowitz by a 6-0, 6-1 a close match captain Betsy In a match featuring two of the William and Mary's Carolijn van margin. to the Gemmer and top players in the country, the Rossum. The three set Dasso, Velasco and Zalinski all University of sophomore Tribe's Lauren Nikolaus scored a marathon was the last match on looked impressive in victory. Chicago, 3-6. co-captain straight set victory over the the court and showed the will Dasso defeated Lorraine Bittles The windy Katie Vales Irish's Jennifer Hall at first sin­and fight in both. 6-1, 6-3; at third singles, Velasco weather and came close to gles 6-1, 6-2. Velasco pulled out front early won 7-6, 6-2 over Thea bustling nois-clinching a 
" 

Nikolaus is currently ranked with a 7-5 win in the first set Ivanisevic. Zalinski, who has a es of the city victory for the 8th in the country, while Hall is and led 4-2 in the second before now won four straight matches, street adja-Belles, but 18th in the latest rankings. van Rossum came back to even scored a 6-3, 6-2 win against the cent to the lost in a tie 
Notre Dame's second singles the match with a 7-5 second set Terrapin's Chrissie Terrill. courts con-breaker, 9-8, player Michelle Dasso, the 19th victory. The third set was close, All three doubles teams tributed to the 7-2. ranked player in the country, with van Rossum eventually recorded victories to finish off Belles' loss, according to Sophomore Krista Eastburn evened the competition at one recording a 6-4 victory and giv­the Irish win. The No. 1 doubles coach Robin Hyrcko. at No. 5 singles played a match a piece with a 6-3, 6-3 ing the Tribe a 4-2 lead going tandem of Hall and Gates beat "The atmosphere was very sound match, winning with a win against Michelle 0. into doubles. Griffin and Bittles 8-2, and No. 2 different than what we are score of 6-2, 6-3. The No. 3 
Dasso. a freshman, is now a The Tribe won two out of the doubles won over Walkowitz and used to," Hyrcko said. "The doubles team of Eastburn and perfect 19-0 in singles dual three doubles matches to clinch Terrill 8-6. The final match was team was not focused enough. sophomore Leslie Ortiz fell to matches and has a 35-4 overall the victory. Nikolaus and 0, won by Olson and Zalinski, 8-2 We could've had a chance to opponents in a very close record on the year. 0 is an expe­ranked lOth in the country in over the Terrapin's No. 3 duo of win the match with our dou-match with a score of 8-6. rienced senior who is 33rd in the doubles, won at first doubles Ivanisevic and Adrienne Pavelko. hies competition, but we set The Belle's home match country. against Gates and Hall 8-4, while The road trip will not get any up points well and we weren't today against Olivet appears 
Sophomore Kelly Zalinski Laura Taggaris and Toro scored easier for the Irish in their next able to capitalize." promising, as Adrian College, pulled out a tight three set victo­an 8"6 win over Notre Dame's match when they travel to Wake The team did not perform as a team the Belles defeated in a ry at No. 5 singles to record the second doubles team of Dasso Forest on Thursday. aggressively as they could match last week, shut out Irish's other singles victory. and Velasco. The Demon Deacons are 1Oth have, and they still need to Olivet 9-0. Zalinski fought back from being The lone doubles win for the in the country and feature a work on using individual wins Hyrcko said the match will down by a set, before beating Irish came at third doubles deep lineup. William and Mary to the advantage of the team, be an excellent opportunity for Annette Oosters 3-6, 6-4, 7-5. where Olson and Zalinski beat defeated Wake Forest on Sunday according to Hyrcko. the team to retrieve its mental 
The three other singles match­van Rossum and Maya Klavova by a 5-4 margin, so this match Despite the unfavorable con-focus and prepare for a big ~s were all close and could have 8-6. should again be a tight one for ditions, sophomore and No. 3 week against Alma and 
•msily gone the opposite way for On Sunday, the Irish rebound-the Irish. singles player Becky Kramer DePauw. 




By ALLISON KRILLA A"oci~rc Spom Ediror 
.Looking into a bas(~ball team's 
dubhouse is like peering into its 
soul. 
And by the look of things, the Notre Dame b a s e b a I I team is in high spirits. 
In the midst 
of a I 0-game Greene win streak. their longest since 1996, the Irish are defi­nitely enjoying themselves. 
"We're pretty confident right now," said centerfielder Allen Greene. "Right now there are a lot of practical jokes going on, and everyone in the clubhouse

" 
is in high spirits. But we know that when it's time to play, we gel serious." 
Notre Dame (20-9) is playing some serious baseball, evident by the team's strong perfor­mances in a three-game sweep of Boston College over the week­end. 
Six Irish players blasted home runs against the Eagles. and three (Brant Ust, Dan Leatherman and Greene) hit two or more. The team's batting average stands at .312, with 43 homers and 116 extra base hits. 
"With about 30 games under our belts, April is usually the time we play our best baseball," Greene said. 
The team's recent hot streak is not just a lucky break, howev­er. 
"Everyone's been putting in extra work," said Greene. "The way we've been playing is a result of the team's great work ethic." 

liard work has enabled Greene to blast five homers in 118 at-bats, two off his career best (7) with 82 fewer trips to the plate. This season, J.J. Brock has equaled his home run total in his first three years (8) with the Irish. Ust has equaled his freshman year home run total ( 11) and leads the team with a .402 average and .813 slugging percentage. 
The pitching staff has also been pulling its weight, holding the opposition to .268 at the plate. 
Alex Shilliday leads the Irish starters with a 5-2 mark, and a 
2.90 ERA in nine appearances, with 56 strikeouts-in 49 and 2/3 innings. 
But the hard-throwing righty Aaron Heilman has grabbed the headlines thus far, with his team-leading three saves and 34 Ks in 26 innings. Heilman also owns a 3-0 record and 1.73 
. ERA. 
Overall, the staff has a 4.72 ERA and 237 strikeouts in a hal­anced effort; 16 pitchers have made at least one appearance this year. 
The Irish will need to main­tain their intensity this week, as they host Ball State and Chicago State in non-conference action today and tomorrow, before Big East foes Rutgers and Villanova come to town. 
"The Big East is a tough league, and we have to play well in conference and non-confer­ence games to prove ourselves as one of the top teams in the country," said Greene. "But we 

Hours: Delivery 
'Tilll AM 273-3890 Sun-Thurs 'Till 2 AM Fri 
Lunch and 
and Sat 
Regular Hours 
Lunch ll-2 

On Tuesdays and ThUrsdays 
A 14''Pizla With Any2 Toppings For Only$8.oo 



1273-3890· 
((STILL THE BEST" 
I 

know it's important to play well against the Big East teams because one of our goals is to win the Big East tournament and earn an automatic bid to the NCAAs." 
Attention All Finance Club Members!!! Election Information Meeting: Date: Tuesday, April 7th Time: 8:45pm 
Place: Room 121 COBA Please contact Shane at 243-5638 if you plan on running for an office. 

invites applications from undergraduates with special interests in the intersecting areas of political philosophy, political theory, and economic analysis. Every year about twenty highly motivated and talented students are admitted to PPE. Check it out to see if it is for you. Many of our students go on to careers in law, public policy, or the academy. 
If you are looking for: 
(1) 
an integrated approach to politics and justice, 

(2) 
without all the requirements of a second major, and 

(3) 
an intellectual community of faculty and students who share your interests, PPE wants you! 


FOR MORE INFORMATION, contact either Professor David O'Connor, Philosophy Department, O'Connor.2@nd.edu, or Professor John Roos, Government Department, Roos.l@nd.edu. 
FOR AN E-MAIL APPLICATION, simply send a request to Professor David O'Connor, O'Connor.2@nd.edu. You may also pick up a paper application from Coleen Hoover in the Philosophy Department, 336 O'Shaughnessy. The application deadline is April13. Acceptances will be announced April14. 
Tuesday, April 7, 1998 
The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• MEN's GOLF 

Golfers putt to second-place finish at Invitational 
By GENE BRTALIK place tie with Ball State, which counted, marking only the sec­
Sports Writer put them just three shots behind 
ond time all season that his Eastern Kentucky. . 
score was not counted. Hardin's 

The Notre Dame men's golf In the third round, the Irish rounds of 7 5, 7 4, 7 4 were all 
team continued its run to qualify put together another solid round counted towards the team's for the NCAA tournament this and shot a 294, two shots nehind 
score, and Vernon's 72 (E) was 

weekend at the Johnny Owens Toledo's 292, which moved them 
tied with Weeks' 72 for the 

Invitational. into second place by themselves team's high score for the round. 
The team finished second in with a total score of 888. 
Weeks fmished the invitational 

the 20-team field, which consist­"I was very proud of the with a 225, while Connell ed of many teams ahead of the team's success this weekend," 
recorded a 229 for the three 

Irish in the district rankings. said head coach Gerorge rounds. 
"This was big for us because Thomas. "They played on a very The second place fmish moves 
we beat almost all of the district difficult course, dealing with the the team up to 8th on the district 
teams ahead us," said senior cold and with all the pins being rankings. If the Irish were to 
Bryan Weeks. "It also helps us in tucked in the corner. It was move up to at least 5th place,
the standings and puts other gratifying to see the team 
they would almost assure them­

teams on watch because they achieve its goal." 
selves a spot in the NCAA realize we are better." Leading the way for the Irish Central Regional to be held May
Notre Dame began sluggishly was junior transfer student 14-16. in the first round, shooting a Willey Kent, who carded scores In order to achieve this, the 
301. This marked the first time of 72, 75, and a 71 (-1) for a total Irish will have to continue strong 
Photo courtesy of Sports Information 
the team carded above 300 in of 218 (+2) and a fourth-place play this weekend when it trav­
Senior Bryan Weeks swung to a team-high score of 72 in the second
four rounds. The 301 score finish out of 100 golfers. 
round, helping blast the Irish into second-place behind Toledo. els to Marshall to play Friday
dropped them into sixth place, This marks Kent's second 
and Saturday against district

and he now leads the team with "We lacked some consistency10 strokes behind Toledo, the straight top-five finish after 
rivals Ohio State, Miami (of

a spring stroke average of73.75. before he [Kent] came but
eventual winner. being runner-up last week at the Ohio), Michigan and Toledo. 
Kent is also one of 50 golfers in always shoots 75 or below and it 
The Irish regained its compo­Butler Invitational. Kent's 218 is "We are really looking forward the district being considered to makes us more confident andsure for the second round which also impressive because he has 
to playing this weekend at

attend the NCAA's. better as players," said Weeks. 
was played later that day and been battling illness. 
Marshall and continuing the suc­

"Kent has added another Junior Brad Hardin and
recorded a 293 score, the second Kent has now played in three cess we have had the past coupledimension and has brought our sophomore Todd Vernon bothlowest of the day. This score tournaments for the Irish, and of weeks," said Thomas. "To doteam to another level that the shot 7 over 223 to tie them atwas made up of two 72's(E), a 74 his score was 79 in his first this we are going to have to con­players gravitate too," Thomas 19th place. On Saturday(+2) and a 75 (+3). The score round. His score has counted in tinue to play at a high level." 
stated. Vernon's score of 76 was notmoved the team into a third-all eight rounds he has played, 
runs on three hits in the bottom swinging well." allowed no more runs in the 
ball," Ruff said. "We bounced

Softball 
of the first to take the lead. The Spartans did not score fourth. 
back in the second game after 

Senger pitched improved in again, and the Belles kept Manchester remained quiet 
losing a tough game. I'm very

continued from page 20 
the second and third, allowing swinging away. until the sixth inning when it proud of them." only one run in the third. The Ruff pulled Senger in the top looked as if they might stage a With two more conference
Klockner said. "In the second. 
Belles did not score in the sec­of the fourth after pitching 3 comeback, but Shevik held her games this week, the Belles
they started to fall, and that 
ond but sent three across home 2/3 innings giving up one ground, not allowing a score. should hope Shevik can contin­made all of the difference." 
The starting pitcher was plate in the third with hits from earned run with two strike The Belles were also silent ue to keep up her stamina. Arena, Andrews, and a double outs. until they scored two runs on "They are practicing hard,"
freshman Anne Senger. She 
from Klockner, leading 6-3. Shevik came in as a reliever five hits in the sixth inning Ruff said. "I look forward to
had a rough start, allowing two 
"Tricia did a great job at the to pitch her eighth inning of the before wrapping the game up making a name for ourselves in runs on one hit and an error. 
plate," Ruff said. "She was real­afternoon. With the help of a in their favor, 8-3. 
The Belles answered with three the Conference against Albion 
ly waiting for her pitch and double play by Klockner. Shevik "We played good fundamental and Olivet next week." 
Oetf~!l'tirj Tk fltk._t Pizza.!~~ [3~Gl~ ~Cil~ ®0®®~ l1m®0~ru~9 Anytime you call between you call between 10:30 -12:59,5:30 8c 7:00, the price of your the price of your 2 large 1 topping pizzaslarge 1 topping pizza is the time you call.is the time you call. * Plus tax* Plus tax ND store 271-1177 Drive-In and Delivery Visa/MastercardSaint Mary's/ Accepted North Village Mall 271-PAPA  

~---~---~-~ ~·-­

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, April?, 1998 

-... • MEN's TENNIS 

Boise State denies Notre Dame revenge in rematch 
By M. SHANNON RYAN to 12-1. The pair combined poise ued to be the strong points, win­Saint Mary's Editor and power to defeat Andrew ning at the No. 1 and No. 3 Houmieh and Hyan Thompson, spots. 
The second time around did 8-6. Sachire proved lethal, exacting not bring the redemption Notre Although the combinations bis revenge on Merkert who had Dame hopt>d for, as they fell 4-3 seemed buoyant enough after previously defeated him in three Saturday in their rematch the doubles, the singles sunk, sets at the Blue Gray. The against No. 22 Boise State. losing four out of six matches. sophomore deleted Merkert's 
Two weeks after the Irish (13-"They really came out after us booming serve, bossing around 41 stumbled to the same score hard," Bayliss said. the experienced opponent for a against them in the Blue Gray The Irish strategy, switching 6-3, 6-2 victory. The win tallied Classic's finals. they were unable Eric Enloe to No. 6 and Horsley Sachire's dual mark record to to carry out their revenge. to No. 5, did not throw Boise 14-3 on the season. 
"They played a "Ryan took 
The Observer/Joe Stark 

very inspired him out quick-Matt Horsley's win streak came to an end against Ryan Thompson. 
match," coach Men•s Tennl·s Results ly," Bayliss
Bob Bayliss said. II said. "He was "lit was! not Boise State 4, Notre Dame 3 able to move
Singles

their best, but I up in the court 
liked the intensi-1. Ryan Sachire (ND) def Daniel Merkert, 6-3, 6-2 and take the 
2. Tsolak Gevorkian def Jakus Pietrowski (ND), ty and the effort 3. Brian Patterson (NO) def Shame Hurst, 4-6, ball early. He 
tlwy showed." came to the net
The match had 4. Adam Webster def Danny Rothschild (ND), better which 
5. Ryan Thompson def Matt Horsley (ND), 6-4 lofty beginnings 6. Cory Dales def Eric Enloe (ND), 3-6, 7-6, 6-really helped for the No. 24 Doubles him." 
Irish as they 1. Patterson/Pietrowski (ND) de~H~~YMerkert, 9-8 Patters 0 n played at the 2. Dalos/Govorkian def Vijay F~ n/Rothschild (ND), 8-5 also improved height of 3,000 3. Horsley/Sachire (ND) def A{'Kj ew Roumieh/Thompson, 8-6 upon his a win-feet in front of '-------------------,=--~---~_J ning record, 
an enthUSed The Observer/Melissa Weber with his singles 
Idaho crowd. The pairs collected State ofT-kilter. Both lost in three record now standing at 14-3. 
the doubles point for the early 1-sets. Patterson began with a bang 
0 lead. but not without a strug-Enloe had the closest match, against Boise State's Hurst lead-
gin. with the ball bouncing the ing 4-1 in the first set. He had to 
Vijay Freeman and Danny wrong way just enough to give switch gears quickly, however, Rothschild lost 8-5 at No. 2 dou-him the loss. Once the ball as Hurst rallied. Patterson finally bles, but the bookends of No. 1 seemed to hang on the net worked over Hurst for a three-and 3 were able to pull out the before plopping to Enloe's side. set battle, 4-6, 7-5, 7-5. two necessary wins. Up 6-4 in a second-set tie-"He had to work hard to get 
"We were actually down in breaker, Enloe went for a big back into it," Bayliss said. "He doubles," Bayliss said. "But we shot which missed by only half played courageous second and were finally able to break them." an inch, handing Cory Dalos the third sets. He always brings that 
Brian Patterson and Jakub win. blue-collar mentality with him." Pietrowski were forced to the "I have no regrets," Bayliss The tennis team will have until limit in the No. 1 doubles match said. "I want him to be in those Friday to begin industrializing against Shane Hurst and Daniel close situations." wins again. Merkert. After the long haul, Pietrowski only lasted two Although their rematch hopes they eventually came out on top, sets, netted by Tsolak Gevorkian, are now deflated, the Irish will 9-8. 7-6, 6-2 while Rothschild lost in probably be able to pump up 
Hyan Sachire and Matt Horsley three sets, 3-6, 6-3, 7-5. their win column as they take on 
increased their doubles record Saehire and Patterson contin-windless Ball State. 
Wed~tesda~ & April 
., 




ALUBNI·SEH~ R ~LW 





Tuesday, April7, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

DILBERT 
JUST GAVE MY TlJO­WE.E.K NOTICE. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Teen woe 33 It makes an
1 Pre-entree dish auto go 6 Sit in the sun 35 latte 10 Cozy home 40Go 
14 Reflection 44lntult 
15 Oppos1ng 45 Hankering
1&Go -­4&Castle's(exceed) 
protection11 The "N" of 
47 Chef's

U.S.NA 
measure. Abbr 10 "Forever" 
50 Someth1rig to 19 "Get going!"' 
go to a bakery 20Go for 23 Withdraw from 52 Wash neighbor 
the Union 53 Delivered a 26 Those go~ng 80, 
sermon say 58 Comments to 27 Med. cost-
the audience 

saving plan &aGo 20And so on &2 Milky-white gem 30 Historical 63 Sacred 
period Egyptian bird 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
M I R TH FlU 'IT 0 0 T0 0  
0 N E H 0 RISIE 0 X F 0 R D  
N I G E R I A N R E F U N D AMISS IRONICAL  
L I ME A R E AIIIIC A T 0  
l'c E P L A IN T A G E N E T 'S~ N A L I T.S U R­-V E G. E R 0 S U S E R 0 M A N EIM P II R E R ~ ~  
A R A NIIIIM I \T E S P A S  
MINERALS JELLO JONSONIOBSIDIAN  
E L E C T S D I lA M A N T E  
T E R E S A E NID AN G E R  

SCOTT ADAMS 
EVER'I'ONE. SE.Ef"\5 TO BE TA.KINCI T14I5 
Rt>.TI-\E.R WELL. 
COUNT f'I\E IN FOR TI4E GOODBYE LUNCH! 
Answers to any three clues 1n this puzzle 
)  
64 War story.  
Greek-style  
&a Chant at a  
fraternity party  
&9 Swiss painter  
Paul  
70 The brainy  
bunch  
71 George  
Washington  
bills  
12Arid  
73 Cousin of a  
Golden Globe  
DOWN  
1 Transgression  
2 Doc's org.  
3 Restroom,  
Informally  
4 Wide-open  
5 Deceive  
6 False god  
1 Black cattle  
breed  
a Treeless plain  
9 Mouth, to Ralph  
Kramden  34 Pigpen  51 Inuit  57 Less moist  
100ne always on the go 1t Call forth  36 Order between ready and fire 37 Result of a bank  53 Kind of ID 54 Wisconsin college  59 South Sea getaways 61 Words of  
12Cut off 13 Lock of hair 21 "Take your hands off me1·· 22lnstruct 23 Pre-Ayatollah  failure? 38 Distress signal 39--Park, Colo 41 "Go get it, Fido!"  55 Story. 1n France 56 ~yn Rand's Shrugged  comprehension 65 Business abbr. 66 Simile's middle 67 --es Salaam  
rulers  42 Jitterbug's  

"cool"24Host are available by touch-tone phone: 43 First digital 

25 Sir Arthur-· 1-900-420-5656 (751'-per minute). 
computer

Doyle Annual subscriptions are available for the 2t Saturn, for one 48 Arab leaders best of Sunday crosswords from the last 32 Mag workers 49 Little rock 50 years 1-888· 7 -ACROSS 
IL\I'l'Y Bllfl'llDAY! I~ THE NEXT YEAR OF YOL1R LIFE: A :-.pec1al intcrl'o..,t in the physit:ally or mcntalh ill could moti,·atc \'Oll to ~o hack to scllnol Try to ptir~uc a Z·arcer \\here you can expn:..,s hoth your praclical and idcali,tic sides. A romance that blossoms in July may he .,hort-li,cd. Do not despair: a 
ncv...nm)cr make~ his or her feeling~ 
oh\'ious in September. You may he forced to choose between two tempt· ing job offers next fall. Your profes­sional accomplishment~ will earn vou high honors in '9X. 
CELEBRITIES HORN ON TIHS DAY: actor William Shatncr. composer Andre'-" Lloyd Webber. actress Stephanie Mills. newsman Wolf Blitzer 
ARIES !March 21-April 19): Friendly persuasion or family sup­port will help you win a long-time battle. Refrain from gloating and a former opponent could become a friend. It is important to guard com­pany secrets. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20):. People may seem O\'erly sensitive today. Wave the olive branch. Soft­pedal your opinions and let others have tlleir turn in the spotlight. A neighborhood gathering could lead to the solulion of a shared problem. 
GEMINI !May 21-June 20): Don't let your moodiness complicate delicate negotiations. The best advice "·ill come from ex~em. not pals. A social event may not live up to your expectations. Be a good sport. Better davs lie ahead. 
·cANCER (June 21-July 22): Happiness will come through home­related projects. A family discussion could relieve your concerns. An un­expected visitor could add spice to 
your evemng. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't 
kt 'our C!.!o !.!CI in the ''a\ ol a friclllll) di~cu'\~ion. It i" po~"·ihk tn 
di'la!.!n:l' \\!iLIHlUI hcinu dJ'>a!.!rcL·ahiL·~ You... :tn.: un better tl'n;l~ '' ilh a 1\'la­tih:. Eat lightly tuniglll.' 
Yff{(;O I Aug 23-Scpt 22r You could .1..1:1lvagc a pltlll by interceding "1th all parties in\'olved. A tele­phone call or ,·isit n.::vcaJ., that a lnng time dn;am may final!) come true Cbh could be emailed. 
LIBRA !Sept. 23-0u. 22r •\Lt· ing on impulse coulc.J lUrn out great toda). Your romantic partner may feel the need to go out on the town tonight. Be a fun companion. Avoid discussing any subjects that could be deemed depressing. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nm. 21 ): A combative attitude will not work. Compromise' Small. victories are better than no agreement at all. Check out a friend's financial tip. Big sa,·ing.s are possible. 
SAGITTARIUS !Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): A change of attitude will put you in the driver's seat: lea\'e old prejudices behind. You enjoy giving others a helping hand. Seek a larger role as a humanitarian. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Winning concessions from someone is out of the question unless you sugarcoat any criticisms you make. A sacrifice you make today will bring a nice surprise later. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Children may need help dealing with their emotions. A relative's ad­vice may not be particularly helpful. Consider a session with a trained counselor. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Seek an attorney's advice about a contract. A small check sends your spirits soaring. Share good news with your loved ones while ha\'ing dinner at an inexpensive restaurant. 



Make checks payable to: The Observer 
The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
is a vita}, source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester
Community. Name ________________________________________ _ 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have 
Address _____________________________________ found The Observer an indispensible link to the 
City ___......:.•----State ______ Zip________
two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The · Observer in your home. 
---------~ ~------­



SPORTS 
page 20 Tuesday, April 7, 1998 
• BOOKSTORE BASKETBAll XXVII • WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Teams deliver smashing start Freshmen lead Irish 
By BRIAN KESSLER 

upset over Buckeyes
Assistant Sports Editor 
worked the ball around well."
Stepan basketball courts 
The Irish found themselves

played host to another 16 Calabrese, 
down at half, 7-3. Tenacious
Bookstore Basketball games yes­
defense and an explosive
terday afternoon. 
offense boosted Notre Dame

Doyle lead
One of the late games featured past Ohio State.
Notre Dame wide receiver 
They held the Buekeyes to
Malcolm Johnson and his team 


scoring, assists 
just two goals in the second
Stranger against Team 443. 
half and held them scoreless
Leading 11-4 at the half, 
in the final 10 minutes of theStranger pulled away and coast­By KATHLEEN LOPEZ game.

ed to victory. Sports Editor The Buckeyes and Irish vied"We feel we have a good squad 
back and forth throughout theand can take people by storm," The women's lacrosse team contest. At one point. Ohio

said Mickey Clifford, who helped got just what the doctor 
State held the Irish scoreless

lead Stranger to a 21-7 win. ordered this past Saturday. 
for 13 minutes in the first halfKing Hax and C.H.O. Dealers Nothing is while they tallied three goals.

played in front of one of the more more impor­This gave them the lead at 5­
verbal crowds of the day with the tant to a contest being mainly a Stanford team than 
2. Also contributing to the
I I all intra-section rivalry for most pulling out a upset win were Doyle's fellow
of the players on each team. big win on 
freshman. Courtney CalabreseStanford residents came out to the road. 

finished the game with two

support their favorite team. 0 n 
goals. while captain Kerry

The game took over an hour to Saturday, Callahan chipped in a goal.
be decided. but in the end, C,H.O. Notre Dame Doyle 
Freshmen Kathryn Perrella

Deaters prnvailed, 21-14. rallied to also tallied a goal. and fresh­"It was a hard-fought victory," beat Ohio State, 10-9. 
man Lael O'Shaughnessy

said senior Dan McCue, who "Instead of plateauing, we 
ehalked up a single goal and

scored nine points for the victors. decided to rise and meet the assisted on Doyln's game tying"Wn playnd solid defensively and challenge," freshman Maura goal..
really shut them down in the sec­Doyle said about the come­The story of thn snason hasond half." from-behind win. 
been the strength of the fresh­LPading I 1-1 0 at the half, King The Irish came into man elass. The freshman leadBax. ·l'eaturing four varsity swim­Saturday's game a bit wound­

the team in scoring and 

mers and a varsity golfnr, could ed after a tough loss to Duke 
.. assists.
only mustPr three points in the last weekend. 
Freshman goalklleper Carriesnrond half. mainly do to an Doyle led the final charge in 

Marshall playnd the full 60

ankle injury sustained by Hobert the last six minutes of the rninutns and rnadn I 0 saves in"Fern" Fetter. game. Her three goals in those 
the gamn. Six of her savns

"After the Fern's injury, it was six minutes gave the Irish eame in thn sncond half.
basically l'ive-on-four, which their second upset win of tlw "Going into thn game, our
allowed them to double tlmm and season. 
coach told us that this ganw

create a lot of turnovers," said Doyle had a career high live 
would determine the br.st in

Chuck "Walls" Bard, who had goals in the contest. She 
the west," Doyle said. "We allfive blocks in the contest. "We scored the game winning goal 

~new ~hat this game was big

were like a fish out of water in ofT a free position shot with a for us.
tlw second half. but I think we little over a minute left in the This win aVl)nged last year's
could have won if we were game. 
game to Ohio Statll where

skins." "Overall, it wasn't the goals Notre Dame lost 1 1-7. 
In Bookstore, thenl are always which got us the win," Doyle Notre Dame's record boost­those team's that live up to their said. "It was the intensity of 
ed the team's record to (>-:~.

names. We Choke Like Sprewell the defense, the transition in 
The Irish arc off until

midfield and the attack held 
Saturday, when they take on 

see BOOKSTORE I page 14 their composure. Attack 
Syracuse at noon. 
• SAINT MARY's SOFTBALL 

• 



Shevik redeemed in round two of doubleheader 
By MOLLY McVOY The game started off well for and sixth innings, the Belles Sports Writer the Belles. L.P. Arena hit a sin­still were unable to capatialize. gle to start the inning; Johna Saint Mary's fielding 
If Saint Mary's pitcher Liz lndriolo then moved her to sec­appeared more rough around Shevik was hoping for an easy one[ and Megan O'Keefe batted the edges as the game pro­afternoon, she did not let her her horne. gressed. Shevik pitched strong coach Bruce Huff know about But little did the Belles know in the first six innings but 
• it. that would be the only run they seemed to tire out in the top of 
Splitting a double-header would seorc. the seventh, giving up four runs against Manchester Collegn The first and second innings on two hits and an error, which yesterday afternoon, Shevik went quite easily for Shcvik; ended the game with a 6-1 loss. dropped the first game 6-1, but Manchester went one, two and "I don't know what happened filled in to win the second 8-3, three in both innings. in the first game," said second bringing the Belles' record to The Spartans scored their baseman Trieia Klockner. "It 14-6. first run in the third inning, but just seemed like we weren't in 
"Liz did an excellent job on a phenomenal diving stop by it." controlling the plate and con­third baseman Arena kept them Although the first game was fusig the hitters with her off­from scoring again. quick and generally uneventful, speed pitches," Hull' said. Manchester then tacked on the second was full of hitting 
Shevik was the starting pitch­another run in the fourth, and and excitement. er for the lirst game, giving up Saint Mary's went down in "In the first game, the balls five earned runs on five hits order. Although the Spartans weren't falling for us," 


and no walks. were scoreless in both the fifth 
Ball State,~: Today, 5:05p.m. 
Purdue,

'!w 
Wednesday, 4 p.m. 
at Wake Forest, ! Thursday, 2 p.m. 
see SOFTBALLI page 17 
wf 
Syracuse, Saturday, Noon 
Tennis vs.Olivet, 
Today, 3 p.m . 
.S'tr 
.·'~ 
Track vs. Defiance, 
Wednesday, 2:30p.m. see page 15
Stt 
~ 





