
.....
• 
Thursday, April 16, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No. 125 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
International summit examines justice, trade 
Meeting aims to 
promote peace, 
Chile hopes for 
economic benefits 
By MICHELLE KRUPA Chile Correspondent 
Santiago, CHILE 
This weekend, presidents and gov­ernment representatives from 34 coun­tries will meet in Santiago for the Second Summit of the Americas in an effort to promote hemispheric peace. 
For Chile, the conference is a chance not only to welcome through its doors some of the most influential political representatives in the world, but also to promote a sp(~eific agenda that includes many of the country's own 
inU·n~sts. 
The Summit \viii help "extend our eapabilitiPs, intPlligencc and knowl­edge. bPsidcs dPveloping the produc­tivity and competitiveness of the (~con om iPs, boosting the growth of a democratic and solidary culture, imbued with the values of liberty and responsibility," according to Chilean President Eduardo Frei in a Nov. 26, 1997, conference invitation. 
Th() five main themes of the confer­ence arc education; judicial reform; preservation and strengthening of democracy and human rights; econom­ie integration; and frAfl trade and eradication of poverty and discrimina­tion. Much literature and news pro­gramming in Chile, however, has focused on the nconomiC opportunities that the conference will bring to the country. 
t 
THEMES OF THE SUMMIT: 
• 
Education -Voting on the Hemispheric Action Plan of Education, which advocates the use of student exchange programs for students and teachers of other countries, strengthening teaching conditions. 

• 
Judicial Reform -Pushing for fair and universal access to justice, improvements in prison conditions and :equi.ring convicted minors to do service in lieu of 1mpnsonment. 


• Economic Integration & Free Trade Attendees will consider the proposed Free Trade Area of the Americas, which proponents suggest might increase economic growth; also, they will discuss establishing open stock markets. 
• Eradication of Poverty Discrimination ­
General encouragement of "justice for all," especially for 
Chilean President 
the poor and for children. 
Eduardo Frei 
"The Ministers will discuss the way Democratic Corps and representatives ence in the neighboring and regional to achieve a sustained development in of international organizations last ambit,.. Prei said. "On numerous occa­a world that is becoming more and December, Frei focused on Chile's own sions, we have insisted on our interest more integrated and to build, in the stake in the economic outcomes of the in carrying out a 'strategic alliance' hemisphere, more open, transparent Summit. with Latin America for we are con­and integrated stock mar~ets," accord­"During 1997, our country has con­vinced that the future of Chile is indis­ing to a January press release. tinued moving forward in search of the More specifically. in a speech to the goal of achieving a very active pres-see CHILE I page 7 
• STUDENT SENATE 
Members recommend student involvement in speaker selection process 
·~·. 
ByTIM LOGAN Nolan. "[The letter was] lost in News Writer the shuffle of [student govern­ment] turnover," she said. 
The selection process for Six names are known to have commencement speakers and been submitted to the campus parking and security University, including Secretary issues dominated last night's of State Madeline Albright, Student Senate meeting. Secretary of the Interior Bruce 
These two topics were the Babbitt and former Irish subjects of the senate's weekly President Mary Hobinson. "Podium," T h e which brings names in campus were sub­
'THE UNIVERSITY IS GOING TO
leaders to mitted to DO WHAT THEY'RE GOING 
discuss cur­M a t t rent issues. Cullinan,
TO DO, BUT THE MORE YOU RAISE 
B e t h Assistant A R.JSS, THE BEITER IT'S GOING
Nolan, presi­to the 
dent of the TO BE.' President, class of who said, 1 9 9 8 • "We'll take addressed BET/I NOLAN it from 

BySARAHJ. HILTZ Associate News Ediwr 
Notre Dame's student-run Marketing Club will seek to combine students' interests in marketing careers with their love for sports in a day-long symposium tomorrow in the Jordan Auditorium at the College of Business Administration. 
Hepresentatives from the Chicago Bulls organization, 
Nikc, the National Basketball Association, NASCAR, Major League Soccer and other groups are among the speakers scheduled to appear at the symposium. 
Melissa Kell, president of the Marketing Club for the 1998-99 year, explained that Notre Dame's students and faculty arc the perfect audience for such a combination. 
"Notre Dame is such a sports-oriented univP.rsity; we knew there would be a lot of interest [in the symposium]." she said. 

Earlier in the semester, the club held an informational meeting for students interested in learning about sports mar­keting. 
"There was a really big turnout," said Kell. "We were really pleased with the interest we've seen in sports market-
see MARKETING I page 8 the senate PIIESJDE.'v7: CJ.ASS OP 1998 h e r e , " on the issues according surrounding Notre Dame's to Nolan. On April 1, Kernan selection of Indiana Lt. Gov. was announced as this year's Joseph Kernan as commence­commencement speaker. ment speaker. Nolan was invit­Some senators were disap­ed to speak after a resolution pointed with the process in was proposed last week general, which does not allow protesting Kernan's selection for a great deal of student and lack of student input in the involvement. selection process. "Many people in my dorm 
A letter was sent to the class were upset with the lack of of 1998 last March asking for suggestions, according to 
see SENATE I page 9 

---~ ----------~----­
.  .  
~  .  .  .  .  .  .  , .  .  .  .  - ..  .·  - .  ii.  
.  ,  '  .  .  .  .  .  I  .  •  

-. 
Thursday, April 16, 1998

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 
J 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
On a Sunday 
Afternoon 

It was a Sunday afternoon. In fact, it was Easter Sunday.  C.R. Teo Teodor Illustrator  
My friend, Kevin, had  

just recently picked me up from campus, as his family had invited me for the Easter meal. Visiting him for the weekend was a friend, Christina by name. I was feeling slightly crazy and quasi-philosophical, so I had asked Christina what she thought of life. She was a bit confused at first, but I explained that she just had to say how her life was. 
She responded, "To me, life is like a pic­ture." "A picture? Hmm... and a picture is worth a thousand words ..." 
It was at this time that we were thinking of explaining the meaning of life in a thousand words. First, we had to decide on a language. Depending on which language we used, the word count changed significantly. If we thought of using the hypothetical "first lan­guage," the Indo-European proto-language, we would probably come to about 1000 words. However, if we decided to translate it into other languages, we could lose something of the original meaning and, more importantly, word count would change. 
For instance, if we choose to use the tradi­tional Latin, we would probably go over the 1000 words, particularly if it were Seneca or Cicero that did the writing. I am not familiar with Greek, so I couldn't say anything about a Greek translation. though I would guess about the same word count as Latin, though that too is dependent on the writer. 
As for the Eastern languages and dialects such as Chinese, Japanese, Korean, Vietnamese, Hindi, etc., I would assume less than 1000 words, but the translation would take on a more metaphorical or allegorical style than would the precise Latin or Greek. Since Eastern thought and Western thought differ greatly on at least a cultural level, then it could be expected that language would also follow suit. 
We thought about using English as a lan­
guage. This vvould probably be less than 1000 
words in a good translation, but were sure 
that we would lose something in the transla­
tion. Then we would have to make footnotes 
for the translation that would be as long, if not 
longer, than the actual translation. 
We also had to also consider the different kinds of "English." There's a British variant, an Australian variant and an American vari­ant, which in turn is also further divided into other kinds of dialects such as those used on the East, the West Coast dialect, a Southern variety, as well as some others. That is not even considering any temporal changes such as from Old English to Middle English to its modern form. 
We even started to go into some Romantic and Germanic languages. I myself didn't have much experience in linguistics, and my com­pany was not really inclined to comment expect for a few side notes. But I am sure that it would be an interesting endeavor to trans­late the meaning of life into these other lan­guages. 
Other languages would also be considered, but as with all translations, you can expect dif­ferent variations when you try to take on such a subject as the meaning of life. 
Of course, I would just like to see the picture rather than write a report on it, or even try to put it into words. It's funny that all of this thought took place while we were riding in a car. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF 
News Scene Anne Marie Mattingly Michelle Barton Tom Enright Graphics Alex Orr 
Dave Piening Sports Production Anthony Bianco 

Anthony Bianco Viewpoint Lab Tech Mary Margaret Nussbaum Jo Mikals-Adachi 
Thc Obscrvcr (USPS 599 2-4000) is publishcd Monday through Friday cxapt during cxam and vacation periods. The: Observer is a mc:mbcr of the Associatcd Press. All rcproduction rights arc rcsc:rvcd. 

utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire: reports 

Northwestern police begin search for false IDs 

EVANSTON, Ill. 
Northwestern University Police have begun to contact more than 100 people who reportedly purchased fraudulent New York drivers licenses from fresh­man David Blundell, police said. Police are interviewing the dozens of Northwestern students on the lists of Blundell's customers, asking them to turn in their IDs and referring them to Student Affairs, said Detective Ronald Godby of the university police. 
Between April 7 and last Tuesday, police had interviewed about 30 stu­dents, Godby said. Students who coop­erate will not face greater punishment than the referraL Vice President for Student Affairs Peggy Barr said Tuesday night she had not seen the reports and she could not speculate about what disciplinary action the administration will take. Police found lists of people who reportedly bought fraudulent IDs from the suspect when searching his room, Godby said. About 100 people were on the lists, and not all of them were NU students. But an NU student whom Godby interviewed Tuesday said the detective told him there were 180 names on the list. Students called into the university police Tuesday were asked how they contacted the suspect, how much they paid for their IDs and whether the sus­pect solicited them to buy anything else, Godby said. All the students said they paid $50 for the New York drivers licenses. 
''I'm using the information from stu­dents to make my case against Blundell," Godby said. "That's the main reason I'm not citing them. because they're helping my case." 
Godby warned that he will continue to call students on the lists for ques­tioning. 
Godby said students could be charged with felonies if they refuse to talk or if they lie to oflicers. 
"If someone really gave us a hard time, we'd probably give them the felony," he said. 
Godby reported he would seek spe­cial protection for students who volun­tarily turn in their fake IDs. 
"If they come in on their own, they're golden," he said. 'Til try to help how­ever I can with student affairs." 
Three NU students have been arrest­ed in connection with possession of fake New York drivers licenses they reportedly purchased from Blundell. 
• UNIVERSITY Of CALIFORNIA-RIVERSIDE • PENNSYLVANIA STATE UNIVERSITY 
Minority applicant pool increases Prof. prepares for space mission 
RIVERSIDE, Calif. 
As results came in for the first class to be considered 
for admission without consideration of race, ethnicity or 
gender, UCLA and UC Berkeley expressed concern as 
they saw their minority student admissions pool drop 
significantly. UC Berkeley accepted 66 percent fewer 
African Americans and 53 percent fewer Latinos, while 
UCLA's admissions dropped 43 percent for African 
Americans and 33 percent for Latinos. On the other 
hand, Riverside's minority student applicant pool 
increased across all ethnic groups. UCR admitted a 
record-breaking number of 8,885 students for the 
upcoming fall quarter, representing an increase of 28 
percent. The possibility of pushing enrollment over 
10,000 for the first time in history is probable consider­
ing the current enrollment of 9,998. Recently, UCH. has 
been criticized by four state newspapers as being "less selective" than the other UC campuses -or at least compared to the two "flagships": UCLA and Berkeley. 
• VALE UNIVERSITY 

University slips in admissions rating 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. 
For the first time in recent years, Yale dropped to fourth place in the Ivy League admissions game. With a record number of applications this year, Columbia University's acceptance rate fell below Yale's, beating the Old Blue for the number three title for Ivy League selectivity behind Princeton and Harvard universities. The combined accep­tance rate for Columbia University -which includes Columbia College and the Fu Foundation of Engineering and Applied Sciences (SEAS) -Class of 2002 as reported by the Columbia Spectator was 16.2 percent. For the past two years. Yale's admission rate has held steady at the histori­cally low rate of 16.8 percent. According to the Spectator, Dean of the Columbia College Austin Quigley sent a letter to current college students earlier this year informing them that "for the first time in our history, Columbia College has received more applications than Yale." Yale admissions offi­cers were not available for comment. 
STATE COLLEGE, Penn. 

The first university professor to visit space took a break from last-minute preparations for his launch to receive a few parting words from President Bill Clinton. James Pawelczyk, assistant professor of kinesiology and physiology. stood by at the Kennedy Space Center with the crew of mis­sion STS90 as Clinton called from Houston to wish them luck. The mission, scheduled to launch at 2:19 p.m. today, will study the effects of space flight on aging. "I hope you find out a lot of things about the human nervous system to help us understand the aging process," Clinton told the crew. ''I'm getting to those years." Clinton's phone call was part of a visit to the Johnson Space Station in which he deliv­ered a speech about the space program's future and toured a mock space lab with Sen. John Glenn of Ohio, who in October will become the oldest man to fly in space at 76. Pawelczyk's mission will include experiments about the ner­vous system, testing the effects of different stimuli on the inner ear, blood pressure and reflexes. 
• UNIVERSITY Of VIRGINIA 
English professor wins Pulitzer Prize 
CHARLOTTESVILLE. Va. 

It's poetic justice. English Prof. Charles Wright, five­time finalist for the Pulitzer Prize, finally won the 1998 Pulitzer for poetry for his 11th collection of poems, "Black Zodiac." The Pulitzer Board, a group of writers that awards the prize each year, announced the winners yes­terday. Wright, a university professor since 1983, teaches poetry writing to undergraduate and graduate students. "People feel like they've worked with a master when they've worked with Wright," Creative Writing Program Administrator Lisa Spaar said. Wright said he began writ­i?~ po~try in 1959 when he was serving in the Army and hvmg m Italy after graduating from Davidson College in 1957. He said he read a poem by Ezra Pound called :'Blen~ula. Tenula. Bagula" which led him to begin writ­mg his own poetry. He added that the subjects of his poems range from language to landscape to the idea of God. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
• NATIONAL WEATHER 

5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
'·t-··--·--/.,..::................___~ H L ~ 
Thursday 
56 47 Friday 55 45 
' ' ''' 
' 

Saturday ~54 35 
\

Sunday ~ ..,56 36 
j 

Monday ~~ 57 42 
,) ,......·'. {\-··· """' //~.} 

The Acc 50s FRONTS: •COLD•  uWeather® forecast for noon, Thursday, April 16. Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. ® WARM STATIONARY 0 1998 AccuWeather. Inc  
Pressure H L HIGH LOW  EB&SJ!TIJ 0~ 8 {) ~ cCJ. SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY  


~..,._/ ') ·.' VIa Assoclateo Press 
Atlanta 74 60 Dallas 74 45 Phoenix 70 52 Birmingham 79 61 Denver 
38 24 Pittsburgh 72 56 Chattanooga 77 62 Malibu 63 49 Seattle 40
60 Chicago 50 36 New York 67 56 Topeka 52 37 
q,Q,~cAeQ i) ~ ~ 
Showers T·storms Rain Flurries SnoW Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Cincinnati 71 53 Omaha 50 33 Washington 78 60
V1a Assoc11111KJ PI'8SS GraphicsNet 


Thursday, April 16, 1998 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Twelve students receive annual leadership awards 
Observer S tatf Report 
Twelve Notre Dame students were recognized for their leader­ship in the campus community at the 12th annual Student Leadership Awards dinner. 
The recipients of the Student Leadership Awards were as fol­lows: 
• 
Paul Brenner, a Siegfried Hall senior, was a resident assistant, held leadership positions in the Arnold Air Society and was certi­fied as an emergency medical technician. 

• 
Qiana Lillard, a Cavanaugh Hall senior, served as president of the Notre Dame chapter of the NAACP, was a resident assis­



tant,and was a member of the Social Space Vision Group. 
• 
Julie Lyzinski, a Pasquerilla East senior, was a hall president, a resident assistant and an intern with Upward Bound. 

• 
Kelly McMahon, a Pasquerilla West senior, was a student sena­tor, president of the Women's Resource Center, and a board 


The JtVilliarn and Katherine Devers Program in Dame Studies 
in conjunction n:ith Gender Swdies 
presents: 


''Female Sanctity and Public Space in Late Medieval<Italy'' 
Jane Tylus 
University of Wisconsin 
Friday, Aprill7 ~1:30pm 
Response .by Thomas Luongo University of Notre Dame 

Department of Special Collections ''·. · 10,4 Htsburgh Library 
: . -:-:-\:~:~::::::::~::.::. :-;:::::::::::::::::::::>' 


The lecture is free anJ open to the public. For further inf(mn,ltion contact the Ikvers Program in Dante Studies at (2 19) 6 31-5610. 
•REMINDER• 
-National Youth Sports Progrant Students­-Summer Service Project Students­-Leadership Interns-

CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Summer Service Program ORIENTATION 
APRIL 19th (Sunday) 
9:00-NOON 
CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
SSP Students PLEASE BRING: 
•Your completed Information Sheet and a •Personal Statement 
See you Sunday! 
member of Habitat for Humanity. 
• 
Phil Murphy, an off-campus junior, was a captain of the varsi­ty soccer team, served as a vol­unteer for the Life Skills program and prepared and delivered food and gifts to the needy on Thanksgiving Day. 

• 
Peter O'Donnell, a Morrissey Hall senior, was a resident assis­tant, treasurer of the Notre Dame chapter of the American Chemical Society, a volunteer for the Foodshare program, and a participant in the CSC's Appalachia seminar. 

• 
Tina Pothoff, a Welsh Family Hall junior, served as the cam­pus entertainment chair for Student Union Board and was the AIDS quilt publicity coordina­tor. 

• 
Nate Rackiewicz, an off-cam­pus senior, was the station man­ager for WSND-FM. 

• 
V. Paul Rainey, an off-cam­pus senior, was a leader of a 



campus-wide Bible study group, a walk-on on the men's varsity basketball team, and a prrtici­pant in the local Big Brothers/Big Sisters organization. 
• 
Andrea Selak, a Welsh Family Hall sophomore, was recently elected as the student body vice president, was a con­gressional intern and was co­coordinator of Project Warmth. 

• 
Deanette Weiss, a Walsh Hall junior, was recently named stu­dent government chief of staff, served as a hall president and was the service chairman for her class during her sophomore year. 

• 
Andria Wisler, an off-campus senior, was the manager of SUB this year, chaired the Sophomore Literary Festival and acted as a historian for Amnesty International. 


Walsh Hall was named hall of the year, with Lyons Hall and Welsh Family Hall finishing sec­ond and third, respectively. 
*The Most Affordable Student Housing * 

One &Two Bedroom Apts Available for the '98..'99 School Year Summer Rentals }une..August. (Check our summer storage specials) 

R!gatoni Pizza Caffelatte Lasagna 
Arugu/a Cappurcino Risotto Chianti Blscotti Pane Italiano Pesto iUarinara Fettucitle 



=A::. 

Ifyou like to eat and drink well, you already speak our language!! 
Summer Classes in Italian 9 credits in 6 1/2 weeks! 
ROIT 101 June 6 -July 7 ROIT 102 July 8-July 21 ROIT 103 July 22 -August 5 
Fulfills Arts and Letters Language_ requirement!! 
For more information, contact Mrs. Mangione at 631-7485 or Summer Session, 631-7282. ; 
~----~--==-'l 

Thursday, Aprill6, 1998

The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
l. \ t 
\ 
~ 
' 
Friday, April17, 1998 
3:00 p.1n. 136 DeBartolo 
66KN SEARCH oF HoME GRo,vN AuTONOMYg AFRITCAN TRANSITTrroN 1ro DJEM(OCRACY9 KNSITDER AccouNT99 
Honor Gue§l Spea~er§: 
H.E. Fassassi A. Ya.:oubou, Former Minister ofCommerce, Ambassador of Benin to the UN, NY 
H.E. Mol.awn...ed Aly Tl.ia.u, Ambassador ofof the Republic of Guinea, \Vashington, DC 
H.E. Oieudonne Antoine Ganga, Ambassador of the Republic ofCongo, \Vashington, DC 
Saturday, April18, 1998 
7:00 p.1n. 
Stepan l:enler 
Keynote Spea~er: Dr. Ownotayo Olaniyan 
Professor, International Economic Relations, Senior Economic Advisor, Organization of African Unity 
Dan~e Perfor•••an~e 
DJO-<iBE,  
a traditional  
Dance (old  
Danhome) With  
Shamanic Dance  
Master, Lazare Houetin, Benin  . ~(;•'i~~··, :j~.  
Tohon Stan and  
Tchink System,  
The Natyakalalayam  From Benin, West Africa  
Dance Company­ 
Bharatanyan Academy of  
Indian Classical Dance,  
Chicago  

Tickets available at Information Desk 631-8128. Advance Purchase. General: $10; Student, Senior Citizen & Children:$5. At the door: $12 & $7. For more information call (219)233-1995. 

Producer: THE PAN-AFRICAN CULTURAL CENTER & THE SALON OF FRIENDSHIP With the Support of: The Kellogg Institute for International Studies, COBA, NDCIBD, GSU, Student Activities, Student Government, Office of International Student Affairs, ND Black Alumni 




COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERV!Cc:S page 5 
• VVonLo Nnvs Br-uEFs 
Feds investigate importation of Russians for childbearing 
BATON HOUGE 

FcdPral investigators confirmed Wednesday they are looking into an adoption scheme in which Hussian women are brought to Louisiana to bear children for adoption in the United States. The U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Services said it is conducting a criminal probe, but refused to identify its subjects. One agency that has been conducting such adoptions is Special Delivery Adoption Services of Baton Rouge. the subjf'ct of an ABC "Prime Time Live" segm1~nt schedul1~d to air Wcdne~day.­ThP agency has been paying pregnant Russian \vomen since 19S7 to come to Louisiana to give birth. Any child born in the United States is an automatic citizen here. regardless of thP origins of the mother. Acrording to an ABC statement. "Hussian recruitPrs. thought to bP connected to thP Hussian mob. collect up to $15.000 for each pregnant woman they sign up to go to the United StatPs." 
Enraged farmers block highway with cauliflower 
MOHIAIX. France 

Angry ~~<wlil1ower farmers blocked a major 
highway in westPrn France on Wednesday, 
insisting that the government pay them high­
er subsidies. Latl' Tuesday night. farmers 
dumpPd 400 tons of cauliflower across th{-~ 
four-larw N12 highway. the main road across 
Brittany. to undnrscon~ their dP,mands. The 
farmnrs have been protesting for a week 
ovPr tlw govPrnnwnt's failure to take action 
as the pril'n of caulillower has dropped below 
production costs. Farnwrs in Brittany havP 
set bonfires and vandalized the railroad 
brtwPnn Hnnrws and Brest on several ol:ca­
sions in tlw past Wl'<'k. 
Indiana company refuses to recycle Navy napalm 
\VASIIINGTON 

Tlw Navy sParrhed on Wednesday for a plan' to store a moving rail shiprm~nt of napalm and l'or a rompany to dl'stroy thP jelli~d gasoline that was destinPd for recycling until politicians objPrted. ThP 12.000 gallons of Vietnam-era napalm had IP!'t California Saturday on the way to Pollution Control Industries of East Chicago, Ind.. but the company abruptly backed out of its $24 million subcontra:ct. leaving the ship­ment riding the rails to nowhere. On WPdnesday. thr onl' railcar load-part of 3.3 million gallons to be transported bateh by bate h ovc r two yp;u·s -moved through Oklahoma toward Kansas and Missouri. Transport<'d by thr Burlington Northern/Santa FP Hailway, it was originally scheduled to arriw in thl' Chicago area this weekend. 

Composite 1119.32 Volume: +.1.57 6R4,000,000

+52.07 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 

t SlMP \:S)  !H'bTK  'ti• CH \N! !';  \ ljc\JN  I'KICI·  
NI!'I·\W.\1 t.I!Ul'l' .\l!t ·.\1 II.\ IINAN< ·1.\1  NIN .\.\t:  l.L\0 ll...J'I  S . .\h.2S 1.1>250  2'1.4.\K,,.IKK  
I ~l.!\11' Illl Ill.\  I IJ I  I ~.7.1  1.1 K7S  '1.2SO  
l 1\\ I.N\ l .I lRI\ill\:l,  (l\Vt.  U.llX  S.IHKK)  -11 ..'\h.\  
t.llM!\1\t:lll'l  INt.  t.ll'  IZ.XX  I.X7SO  lh.4.1X  

BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 

1'1>11 INI!l\U \ ( ll .10.12 IS.2SO .ILIX IHl\11111 \Y\H\1\ II.\ II .:.I.OX 3.fiUO ill.IMI l)l'.\KI R\1.\11 l ·p 1-.\1 1~.Sn .U7S I'J.XI II II· I \I'.\N.\-1!1 \ IH I 1.7.1 11.4.\X 2.7$0 Ill!< It Ii--I l.l~l )I ... !H,I K.Xil 1..11.1 IL~Il 
• MEXI"cO 

M
' . · · .· · . ·.. · ·. ·· AFF>Photo exican army troops check personal documents at a road block in the municipality of La Garrucha, Chiapas: 
Human rights groups have protested the roadblocks as being nothing more ·than a point to harass people. . · •· · 
Army deports three Norwegians 
The-villagers ph'~d ~P ... . old conflict between file dip'ftirriafie' personne'1 'frY .
ASSOCIATED PRESS stones. · posts and tree rebels and government. Mexico that they were. only MEXICO CITY trunks on a rural rnad to Mexican law prohibits observing the protest when police arrived Tuosday.
Three Norwegian citizens protest increased army foreigners from becoming detained at a rebel road patrols and police raid on involved in domestic poli­"They said they were pre­sent. but had no active par­
blnckade in sou thcrn another Chiapas town, tics. 
Mexico were deported where a maverick local Since the rebel uprising, ticipation." said Norwegian Wednesday, two days after government was set up last Mexican authorities have Ambassador Kristen 12 other foreigners were week by supporters of left­broaqly interpreted that Christensen. expelled in a police crack ist Zapatista rebels. ban to include foreigners A half~dozen Mexican 
down on rebel activities. Authorities identified the who attend rebel-spon­police and immigration Immigration authorities three. Norwegians .as Kaja sored events or who state authorities escorted the claimed the three Langeland, Nora Langeland opinions about local poli­three onto a commercial tics. flight bountl for Newark. ·
Norwegians participated in and Espen Lauritzen. A 
the road block set up fourth Norwegian. Norian More than 200 foreigners New Jersey. Tuesday by 100 Indian vil­Vibeken, apparently have been deported from They were apparently not lagers near the town of San escaped by running into the Chiapas in the last two connected with local Miguel Yalchiptic in the nearby woods. · years. with over two dozen human-rights groups and 
troubled southern state of The Norwegians report­expelled so far this year. held tourist visas. which Chiapas. edly came to Chiapas to act Prior to their deportation, were still valid when they as observers in the 4-year-the three told Norwegian were detained. .· 
UN to withdraw team from Congo 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 

UNITED NATIONS 
Citing a lack of cooperation from the Congo's government. Secretary-General Kofi Annan h<L<; decided to withdraw a 
U.N. team sent to the African country to investigate mas­sacres. a senior U.N. official said Wednesday. 
The official, speaking on condi­tion of anonymity. said the announce­ment would proba­bly be made Annan Thursday or Friday, even though Annan was under pres­sure from the United States to keep the team in the Congo. 

Annan sent the team to the Congolese capital of Kinshasa in August to investi­gate reports that for<~es loyal to President Laurent Kabila massaered thousands of Hwandan llutu refugees during their sevPn-month rrbPIIion, which toppl1~d dictator Mobutu Srse Seko in May 1997. 
Despite assuranees from Kabila's government that it would cooperate. the investigation has been delayed by numerous disagreements over the scope of the probe and allegations that the team desecrated graves. 
In Kinshasa, team leader Atsu-KofTI Amega said the investigators had not been informed or any decision to with­draw them from the country. 
Last Friday, Amega said the investi­gators were unable to earry out their work. and morale was "very, very low." Also last week, Congolese authorities detained a Canadian team member overnight in the eastern city of Goma. 
Annan then suspended the team's activities. demanding an explanation from the Congolese government. 
The United States had warned that future American aid was linked to Kabila's cooperation with the investiga­tion and urged the United Nations to persevere. 
But Congo also holds a strategic Loca­tion in the volatile GrPat Lakes Region of Africa, and U.S. officials are con­cerned that withdrawing the team could undermine Washington's efforts to forge strong ties with the new Congo government. 
Kabila has denied that his forces tar­geted refugees. but has acknowledged that some Rwandan Hutus. armed by Mobutu to fight the rebels, may have been killed in battle -along with the women and children whom they hid among. 
Rwandan Tutsis who fought for Kabila are accused of killing Hutu refugees to retaliate for the 1994 geno­cide of more than SOO.CJ.OO Tutsis by Hutus in Hwanda. 
The refugees were Rwandan Hutus who had fled their homeland to escape punishment for the llutu-orchestrated slaughter. 
Meanwhile, a top U.N. investigator said in a report Wednesday that Kabila 's government may be worse in terms of improving democracy and human rights than his predecessor, Mobutu. 
KabilH has failed to create any demo­cratic institutions since he took power and has banned political opposition. wrote Hoberto Garreton in his 55-page report. 

Thursday, April 16, 1998

page 6 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Calendar of Events 
of Dr. Erskine A . ...a....,..,., Wednesday, April 2 A 
3:00 pm, Basilica 
students and their Friday-Saturd · 
AREYOU ................../""\. AREYOU A 
SECOND SUNDAY OF EASTER LAETARE SUNDAY 
Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica Saturday, April 18 
5:00p.m.
r 
Rev. E. William Beauchamp, G.S.C. 
Sunday, April 19 
10:00 a.m. Rev. James E. McDondald, C.S.C. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. Thomas P. Doyle, C.S.C. 
VespeFS SUnday, March 22 

7:15p.m. Sister JoAnn Haney, O.S.F. 
Scripture Readings 
1st Reading Acts 5:12-16 

Beginning Saturday and For as Long as He Lives, Tom Doyle Will"Do This in Memory of Me" Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. 
Just one week ago, on Holy Thursday, we celebrated the institution by Jesus Christ of the Eucharist and of the priesthood. It was the moment, too, when Jesus left His disciples and us a living testimony of service epito­mized by the Mandatum. Jesus washed the feet of His disciples, and insist­ed that simple acts of service to friends, strangers, and even enemies, are essential signs of our discipleship. 
For thousands of years, devout and observant Jews have celebrated the Passover. The feast commemorates that day years ago when the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob saved those faithful chosen people who observed a command to slaughter a lamb, sprinkle drops of the blood of the lamb on the doorposts and lintels, and then roast and serve it with unleavened bread and herbs. The blood of the lamb would save the people who placed their trust in their faithful God. The Hebrew Scriptures tell us that every household with signs of the blood of the lamb on the door were "passed over," and God's people were freed from slavery in Egypt and entered into the Promised Land. 
As Catholics, we believe that on the night before Jesus was crucified, He celebrated the Passover meal with His disciples. But Jesus did so with a stunning difference. Luke and Paul testify, and scores of generations of Catholics celebrate, the reality that at a,given moment during the Passover supper, Jesus took bread and said "This is My Body which is given up for you" and, as Jesus took up a final cup of wine he said "This is the cup of my Blood which is shed for you and for all for the forgiveness of sins." 
In one beautiful and startling moment, Jesus transformed the Passover meal into our Eucharist... the Mass we celebrate so often together at Notre Dame. Jesus declared Himself to be the Sacrificial Lamb, pro­claimedby Isaiah, whose blood was poured out so willingly and lovingly on the cross to save all men and women who would cast their lot with Jesus. 
To make this sacrament of salvation available to God's people throughout the course of human history, Jesus instituted the priesthood. As soon as Our Lord changed bread and wine into His Body and Blood, He gave His apostles and their successors, our bishops, and priests who collab­orate with the bishops in their apostolic ministry, the awesome responsibili­ty to" Do this in memory of Me." What a priest does is not a symbol or a ritual. The priest leads the people in a memorial of the saving passion and redeeming death of Jesus, and the effect of what took place on the first Good Friday takes place once again as Jesus is present in the midst of believers. The sacrifice Jesus offered for the forgiveness of sins, takes place again for baptized men and women who will share His resurrection and live forever in His presence. 
On Saturday, Tom Doyle and Gary Chamberland will be ordained as priests. When our own Bishop Daniel Jenky, C.S.C.lays his hands on Gary's and Tom's head, and after all priests present lay their hands upon the heads of Tom and Gary as well, the bishop asks God to "grant to these men, our brothers, the grace and dignity of the priesthood." At that moment, Tom will be a priest forever. Every Holy Cross religious present in the Basilica on Saturday will experience the deepest gratitude to God imag­inable. The ordination of one of our brothers is one of the most visible signs of God's favor for us as Holy Cross religious. 
Many of us have known Tom as a Notre Dame undergraduate and as Student Body president. We h.ave known him as a candidate, novice, seminarian and professed religious. We have known Tom as our brother and friend. Tom has shared with us our common ministry at Notre Dame for the past two years as rector of Keough Hall and as a Campus Ministry staff member. 
A man who had many options for his life was captivated by Jesus Christ. And, as a result, Tom took upon himself the challenge-the reck­less option-of setting aside all other paths and possibilities in order to serve God's people as a priest. Tom's lifetime of service to the Church through the Congregation of Holy Cross, will provide many people with an example of how a life of loving service can be offered by a man whose all embracing celibate love can be trusted. Tom's life, dedicated to the won­drous ability to offer sacramental ministry, is a great sign of hope. Through Tom's words and actions, Jesus Christ Himself will be present to believers wherever Tom serves. 
Thank you, Tom, for accepting the Lord's wonderfully haunting call to serve the Church and God's people honorably, humbly and with a spirit of simple gratitude to God for God's love for you. To be a priest forever, 
Tom, is the most incredible and joyful call anyone could ever:_ receive. I am
2nd Reading Revelation 1:9-13,17-19 

confident that you will continue to serve God's beloved and chosen people 
-

Gospel John 20:19-31 with gentle, unassuming, unpretentious and powerful service all the days 0MPUS of your life! MINISTRY 

------~ ~~--~--------~,·----------~~-------~-..,.,____..___,?SL m-------------~--­
~ ........ 

Thursday, April 16, 1998 
The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page .7 
Chile 
continued from page 1 
solubly linked to the future of the region." 
Overall, Frei's hope, and that of many economic ana­lysts, is "to form a great free trade zone in the continent as of the year :woo." 
This zone, known as the Free Trade Area of the Americas (FTAA) to represen­tatives of the first Summit held in Miami in 1994, "will be a comprehensive agreement, abolishing all barriers to investment and to trade in goods and services." 
Continuing talks on the 
_FTAA is a major goal of the Santiago summit, with the ultimate aim of making a con­crete schedule for the project with a conclusion reached in 2005. 
"Experts estimate that for­mation of the FTAA could add one and a half points to the normal rate of annual eco­

nomic growth in the region," according to information sent to government representatives attending the summit. 
In addition to economic talks, Frei has established the educational agenda of the con­ference as a top priority for discussion and action. Primarily, international repre­sentatives will be concerned with the Hemispheric Action Plan on Education, which will' be submitted for their approval at the Summit. 
"The action plan prioritizes 
JUNIORS! 
Whv lVot ("onsicler 


GRJ[IDlliATE SCHOOL1 
Attend the Workshop ll ! ! ! 
·When: Thursday, April 16, 1998 Where: Notre Da1ne Rootn -LaFortune Thne: 6:0 0 -7 : 3 0 p.1n. 
Topics Covered: 
• 
Strategies in selecting and applying to graduate schools 

• 
Vv'riting an effective letter of intent 

• 
Gi·aduate Record Exam Information 

• 
Graduate Assistantships and Fellowships 


Jointly Sponsored By: Career & Plafement Services & University of Notre Dame Graduate School 
Hosted By: Olivia Williams, Assistant Director 011ice of Career & Placement Sen· ices 

~eniors are Welcome! Seniors are Welcome! 

NOTRE DAME AREA  ST. MARY'S AREA  
S.R. 23 (East of Ironwood)  52750 U.S. 33 N. (N. of Cleveland)  
243-1111  243-1122  

the establishment or improve­ment of standards, evaluation and educational indicators; the encouragement to exchange students and teach­ers among the countries of the hemisphere and the strength­ening of the teaching condi­tion," read a recent press release about the conference agenda. 
"There is a consensus in the region that [education] is the key tool for achieving develop­ment, along with other social issues such as health care, assistance for small and medi­um-sized enterprises, aid for at-risk groups of people, etc.," said Juan Martabit, the Summit's general coordinator. 
Justice for all people, espe­cially the poor and children, will be another main topic of this week's conference. Participants in the Conference of Government Jurists of the Americas stated their con­cerns for this Summit in the final document of that meet­ing. 
"Insofar as systems of justice are inefficient, beyond reach of low-income groups or bur­dened with structural defi­ciencies that hinder the appli­cation of legal guarantees and the indispensable conditions of transparency, economic growth cannot be maintained nor political and institutif)nal stability assured." 
A goal of the Summit is to educate government leaders and representatives on "fair and universal access to jus­tice," especially with respect to the public defender system, improvement of conditions in prisons and alternative service as opposed to incarceration in the sentencing of minors. 
In addition to formal discus­sion of the official topics, visi­tors and the Chilean public will be invited to share in the cultural experience of the Summit. Because "for millen­nia, trade in goods has also meant trade in culture," according to Summit litera­ture, Chile, Peru and Guatemala will present large­scale presentations of dance, art and music at the Summit Exposition. 
The U.S. will also present a jazz music festival during one evening of the week-long cul­tural extravaganza. 

C\ot somethiV\9 to say? Be classy: Observer classifieds. 

LATER!! ! 
WOMEN'S RESOURCE CENTER GENDER ISSUES WEEK 
Free Movies!! Tonight 
at the Montgomery Theatre, in LaFortune 
7:30 The Full Monty 
10:30 G./ Jane Refreshments will be served. 

c -__ . • • . • -• • ' . . ...· • . . . . . . . •. • '; .. .. . . . . • • • ~..··· c . • .· --•• • ~ :._ ". ·--·. . . . . ~·-• -• • ~ . .. . . . . • J ' 
page 8 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 16, 1998 
Marketing 
continued from page 1 
ing," 
Guest speakers will focus on four themes: 
• Getting started in sports marketing will be discussed by Ther.esa KeHy, Scott Paddock and Bob Crable. Kelly is a 1990 Notre Dame graduate with a degree in marketing and now is an assistant director of sports information at Wake Forest University. Paddock is the account supervisor with Sports Partners of Chicago, and Crable is a 1982 Notre Dame graduate, three-time All­American football player and founding owner of Crable Sportswear. This session wi1l take place from 9-10:15 a.m. 
• Marketing a sports team, league or personality will be the topic of Gary Jacobus and Steve Schanwald. Jacobus is senior vice president of International Management Group, one of the world's lead­ing sports consulting firms, and Schanwald is executive vice president of marketing and broadcasting for the Chicago Bulls. Jacobus and Schanwald will give their talk from 10:30­

11:45 a.m. 

• Women in sports will be the focus for Judy Shoemaker and Sue Levin from 1:30-2:45 
p.m. Shoemaker is vice presi­dent of Robinson/Maites and the former vice president of marketing for the NBA. Levin is the director of women's sports marketing at Nike, and she will talk about Nike's "Play Like a Girl" campaign. 
• Corporate sports market­ing will feature Greg Via and Bill Bund from 3-4:15 p.m. Via is the director of worldvyide sports marketing for Gatorade and coordinates the firm's marketing relationships with Michael Jordan, the NFL, NBA, Major League Baseball and NASCAR. Bund is sports sales director of ABC Sports and will discuss the network's market­ing of Monday Night Football. 
The symposium will include a noon luncheon featuring Doug Logan, the commissioner of Major League Soccer, who will deliver a keynote address, and will conclude with a roundtable discussion from 4:30-5:30 p.m. 
The Marketing Club is spon­soring the symposium. The group consists primarily of declared junior and senior marketing majors, but is open to students of all years and col­leges. The goal of the club is to provide students with an opportunity to further their understanding on the vastness and complexity of the market­ing field through experiences outside of the classroom. 
The symposium is the first of its kind held by the Marketing Club, but it is expected to become an annual event. The cost of the luncheon is $5. All other sessions are free and open to the public. 

Care for the eit\viroit\meit\t. Recycle The Observer. 
ARE YOU LESBIAN? GAY? BISEXUAL? QUESTIONING? ARE YOU A FRIEND OF SOMEONE WHO IS? Campus Ministry's SECOND ANNUAL RETREAT for lesbian, gay, and bisexual undergraduate students and their friends has been rescheduled. The new date is APRIL 24-25. BE THERE! • Student-led *Student talks • Conversation it'aver For more information or to register, please call or e-mail: Kate: 1-5242 katharine.s.barrett.28@nd.edu Mark: 4-1933 mark.f.massoud.l@nd.edu Alyssa: 4-1884 alyssa.l.hellrung.S@nd.edu 0MPUS MINISTRY  


You're closer to home , than you think. 
'I· 
,. 
f 1-800-COLLECT ® 
1: 
<:' ~ ~I) 
~ 
~ 
_,'I 
ti 
~ ''I 1 I I I I It f Iff I If I If I I 1 I 11 f 
'.'; 1 I f I I • I I I I I I f I t f J I I j I I I • 1 1 1 t
(_
------------------------------------------------~--~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~·~,~·~·' _j 

Thursday, April 16, 1998 page 9 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
student choice," said Lewis Hall senator Sophie Fortin. 
"You'd think they could find someone," stated St. Edward's Hall senator Judson Penton, pointing out the contrast 
. between the renowned James Earl Jones, who visited in September, and Kernan. Jones was paid by the Student Union Board for his appearance, but the commencement speech is not compensated. 
There was little hope that the senate could change the University's selection of Kernan with a resolution. "They're going to know we're upset, but they won't rescind the offer," declared Nolan. 
"The University is going to do what they're going to do, but the more you raise a fuss, the better it's going to be," she said. · 
The resolution being consid­ered by the senate "strongly 
Snite Museum of Art University of Notre Dame 
Sunday, April 19, 1998 
Holocaust Memorial Chamber Music Concert Featuring members of the Notre Dame String Trio 
Program: Tht' E11tirt' World. Lu!Llby and In My Ht'art Arrangements for two violins and cello based on Jewish melodies by Michael Rose, Vanderbilt University 
String Quarttt No. 3 
Composed in Theresienstadt Concentration Camp by Viktor Ullmann 
2:30p.m. Annenberg Auditorium 
Written in Memory: Portraits of the Holocaust Opening Exhibit of Photographic Works by Jeffrey Wolin Director, School of Fine Arts, Indiana University 
3:45p.m. Snite Museum Atrium 
A rtctptio11 will immediattly follow. 
Sunday, April 26, 1998 
Artist Lecture: Jeffrey Wolin 8p.m. Annenberg Auditorium 
Sponsored by th~ Notre Dame Holocaust Pmject and the Kun .and Tessye Simon Fund ror Holocaust Remembrance 

protests" Kernan's selection and "calls for true student input" in the future. While some considered the legislation timely, and called for urgent action, others expressed the idea that the issue should be studied and discussed further. The selection process for next year's speaker is currently underway. 
"This ball [for the 1998 talk] was rolling last March, it takes a very long time to secure a speaker," said Nolan, who was not optimistic about direct stu­dent involvement in the selec­tion process. 
"It's a question of timeliness. If they're thinking about it now, we should do something," added Dillon Hall senator Jason Linster. 
Another suggestion was to rewrite the resolution to avoid criticism of this year's selec­tion, and focus instead on increasing student input. The bill will be sent to the Academic Affairs committee for further review. 
Another podium discussion was held with Joe Araman, head of University Security, about regulations governing student driving on campus. Araman, as a member of the Gate Committee, solicited sen­ate input on the issue. He pointed to a 1997 survey in which 25 percent of respon­dents felt they had "very nega­tive" experiences driving onto campus. 
A major point of contention was a lack of student education about rules for entering cam­pus. 
"People need to be told the rules," said Cavanaugh senator 
Saint Mary's College presents the Second Annual Shaheen Presidential Lecture 

Bettina Gregory 
~  ABC News Correspondent  
~  Reporter for World News Tonight, Good Morning America, and Nightline  
<IIIII  Chief anchor for ABC Radio's live coverage of special events  
~  Won the Ace Cable Award for her biography of Hillary Rodham Clinton  

SliCCCSS 


. . . MtifMD Monday, Apnl20, 1998 at 7.30 p.m. / ~~Tift: ARTs Moreau Center • O'Laughlin Auditorium ~NoTRE DAME, IN 
Admission is FREE. For further information, call 219/284-4626. 
Bridget Tomes. "That's the major source of the problem." 
Another concern was a lack of consistency in enforcement of the regulations, as students have expressed varied ~uccess at the gates depending on the time of day and location. 
Araman noted that there are stated guidelines, but that "nothing's set in stone," and that individual situations are left to the discretion of the guards. 
Suggestions for greater edu­cation about rules for driving on campus included publishing the guidelines in DuLac, send­ing a pamphlet to incoming freshmen, and having a gener­al campus mailing at the start of the school year. 
In other Student Senate news: 
• 
A resolution passed unani· mously allowing the Hall Presidents' Council co-chairs to select a delegate to represent their body on the Senate's Residence Life Committee. Previously, the co-chairs sat on the committee. However, due to a very busy schedule, they were frequently unable to attend meetings. 

• 
The senate unanimously approved 10 Student Union Board programmers for the coming year. 


See News Happening? The Observer News Desk: 

FRIDAY THE 17TH 
108 Lafun 
4 ids per senior Great America (Saturday) Cubs Trip (Sunday) . s Formal (Wednesday night
Clas @Century Center) 
Taste ~f Chicago <'ub~~~~ip) 
$37 $10 $8 $10 
Get there early•••events WILL sell out 
plus the debut of new class shirts 
Questions? Call 1-5~~5 
... 
I I \ \ \ \ t ~ ' • 

' :
~ . _. .... --­

OINT 
THE OBSERVER 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESS MANAGER Bri2n Reinrhaler Kyle Carli? 

ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Heather MacKenzie 
NEWS EDITOR .................. Matthew Loughran ADVERTISING MANAGER ......................... Kris Klein VIEWPOINT EDITOR ..................Eduardo Llull AD DESIGN MANAGER ........................ Brett Hudar SPORTS EDITOR ......................Kathleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER .....................Michael Brouillet SCENE EDITORS............................Sarah Dylag WEB ADMINISTRATOR ..................Jennifer Breslow 
Krisri Klirsch CoNTROI.LER .....................................Dave Rogero SAINT MARY'S EDITOR .............Shannon Ryan PHOTO EDITOR ........................ Kevin Dalum 
The Observer is the independent newspaper publishrd by rhe students ofrhe University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. lr does nor necessarily reflect rhe policies of rhc adminil>tration ofeither institution. The news is ropo•ed as accurately and objenivdy as possible. Unsignrd editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor. A"isranr Managif1g F.diror and department editors. Commentaries. letters and columns present the views ofthe authors. and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available ro all members of the None Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The fttt expression of varying opinions through letters is encouragrd. 
Contacting The Observer 

Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor/Assistant ME  631-4541  Advertising  631-6900{8840  
NewsfPhoto  631-5323  Systems  631-8839  
Sports  631-4543  Fax  631-6927  
SceneffSaint Mary's  63I -4540  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint. I@nd.edu  
Day Editor/Viewpoint  631-5303  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  
Office ManagerfGeneral Information  631-7471  News E-Mail  observer.obsnews.1 @nd.edu  


• THE BEllE OF SAINT MARv'S 
Sweat, Christmas Light Rights and Variations on a Whine 
• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 

I
've heard a lot of whining lately that The Observer whines too much_ Space normally reserved for collegiate moaning and complaining, so I've been told, would be put to far better use for, say, yet another investigative Scene article exposing the shocking news that dinner at Taco Bell is cheaper and faster than dinner at Don Pablo's. 
This column, then, is dedicated to cel­ebrating those aspects of our communi­ty that enhance our lives -those charming quirks of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's that make us forget all 
about the fact that we will be in student 
Mary Beth Ellis 
loan debt until at least the next geologic period. This is not chicken soup for the soul, my friends ... this is Chunky !lOME-STYLE chicken soup for the soul, re-heated and trucked from one side of the campus to the other just for you. 
I would first like to congratulate my College, which at times addresses my needs even before I can express them in a highly publicized, but poorly attended public rally. Just last week, for instance, I was saying to my friends; "You know, I miss the good old days at St. Jude Elementary (motto: "Proudly Serving Western Cincinnati as the Hellhole of Catholic Education Since the Johnson Administration"), where, in the sixth grade, Principal Axt rmide the entire class write individual apologies to our arrogant and generally wretched liturgi­cal music director, Mr. Drew, who was not present the day Miss Axt announced that we wouldn't be forced to go to music practice because he was sick, eausing three kids in the back row to break into applause. Mass punishment has made me the responsible, highly motivated individual I am today, and by God we need more of it around here! And darn if I didn't walk into my dorm the other day and notice a sign announcing the cancellation of the McCandless Hall Movie Club, to which I'd paid a nat fee for the right to borrow videos for the entire year. It had met its demise because six residents are still clutching dorm copies of "The Princess Bride" and "Ace Ventura." 
My heart swelled with joy. Imagine! To be treated as though I were 10 years old again! Thank you, McCandless Hall Movie Club! You may refund my mem­bership fee by cash, check, or COD. I'll expect it by the next Vatican Council. Although I have come to expect such judicious and sensible deerees from the same dorm whose current Hall Council minutes begin with the following: "Don't put yourself in the hallway. It's a fire hazard," I recently received another welcome announcement, this time from the Office of Residence Life and Housing (motto: "Because We Said So, That's Why") informing me that in exchange for staying on 
campus during Senior Week to assist in SMC's Baccalaureate Mass, I will have the honor of pay­ing for my meals in the Dining Hall during "spe­cial, posted hours," as well as -I can't 

believe I'm this lucky-moving out of my original dorm room to live out the week in a mueh smaller one clear across campus. YES! I was hoping to recover from the stress of finals week by need­lessly transporting all of my worldly belongings from one building to anoth­er! This is just another episode in my hate-hate relationship with the Office of Hesidence Life and Housing, whose com­mitment to a safe and healthy living environment for residential students is marked by its bold campaign to protect us from dangerous words. The Office, you see, never uses such yucky negative terms as "dorm" and "freshman" and instead advocates warm and cuddly words like "residence halls" and "New Student." This makes living on campus much, much better for us Saint Mary's students, and I'm thrilled that Res Life takes such caring, drastic action as opposed to, say, actually addressing the faet that while Notre Dame students 

may display Christmas lights in their dorm rooms and Saint Mary's students may not, Advent continues to come and go with Notre Dame dorms somehow avoiding incineration caused by a lethal 
strand of flashing Merry Miniature lights. Thank you, Office of Hesidence Life and Housing! You are the wind beneath my wings. 
(P.S. DOHM! DOHM!DOHM! 
/· FRESHMAN! FHESHMAN! FHESHMAN!) 
(Pause as Holy Cross Hall sponta­

neously combusts due to columnist's cal­lous refusal to contribute to a safe and healthy living environment for residen­tial students.) 
Finally, I would like to recognize Rolfs Recreation Center (motto: "1 ,600 Students Still Unserved") for its contri­bution to the cohesion of the Notre Dame family by refusing to admit 1,600 members of it. A Notre Dame friend, another Saint Mary's student, and I committed the mortal sin of attempting to shoot hoops at Holfs last month, but ran smack into the center's "Notre Dame Students, Faculty, Donors With Buildings Named After Them, Staff, Retirees, and their Spouses Plus One Guest Only" policy, thereby preventing me from befouling the courts with my alien presence. My half-hour of sitting on the floor of the lobby, parasite-style, waiting for another Notre Dame friend who was willing to take responsibility for whatever non-ND havoc I might . 1 i wreak · \'· within the 
··~ center to arrive, gave me an exeellent opportuni­ty to reflect upon means . with which to institute i the next
I
,, 

phase of r ~../..-myagenda -trc of stealth­ily sucking 
the University dry while passing myself off as a Notre Dame student, which of course is the reason I applied to Saint 
Mary's in the first place. I ultimately decided to infiltrate the Basilica of the Sacred lleart. It'll look like I'm just there for Mass, see, but I'll actually be there to lcceh some Communion and p£~w space. So-thank you, Holfs Hecreation Center! Your Spirit of Inclusion has shown me the folly of attempting to mix my SMC-trash sweat with the sweat of those who are truly NO! Whew: That was a close one! 
There now! Don't you feel better? I do! Let's be appreciative more often, okay, kids? All this eomplaining won't get us anywhere. 
Mary Beth Ellis is a junior English Writing and Political Science major at Saint Mary's College_ ller column appears every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are not necessarily those of The Observer . 
• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 
'one of the most difficult 
things to do is to paint 
darkness which nonetheless 
has light in it.' 
-Vif\cent van Gogh 
I I ' I I I , I o 1 j I I I I j I f , f 

,____________ ---~~.-w .... --,--------~--~-~--~ 
VIEWPOINT
Thursday, April 16, 1998 page 11 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
"In Love" Lecture is Abberation, Not 
Homosexuality 

"Write with your other hand, child. The left hand 
serves Satan." 
"But, Sister, I can't write with my right hand. It just 
doesn't seem natural to me." 
"Do you want to do the devil's work? Write with your 
right hand! You are evil when you print with your left 
hand! You sin!" 
''I'm sorry, Sister. I feel that I am evil. I will try to 
change." Throughout grade school, this little girl bore 
the weight of this cross -she was left-handed and, 
therefore, the embodiment of sin. The young girl was 
chastised and encouraged to change, all in the name of 
human ignorance and intolerance. Fortunately, this lit­
tle girl grew up and was eventually labeled a lost cause 
by her tormentors. Today, she is left-handed once 
again, and accepted. The grown woman that I refer to 
is my motlwr. and this is her story. 
I was actually reminded of this situation as I read 
through The Observer last Thursday. Specifically, I felt 
the familiar nauseousness that strikes me every time 
my mom tells her story when I read the advertisement 
for the "In Love and Out of Homosexuality" lecture. 
Headline: "Step right up, folks! Dig deep into your 
pockets! Homosexuality is a disease that Christianity 
can cure! We'll make you NOHMAL in a few short 
months! Just six monthly installments of ... " Just six 
monthly installments of what?! What will it cost? What 
will it take to open our eyes? Spiritual crisis? Death? 
A part of me died with the passing of my intelligent, sensitive, humorous, outgoing friend. lie just happened to be homosnxual, and incidentally. he took his own lift~. llis parents could not undt~rstand that he had no rhoico in his sexual prderence. They thought if they startt'd a strong Pnough IV of educational literature. eounseling. direeted Bible study, and "Christian" group therapy sessions they could kill this cancer. With prop­er treatment, they were determined that Brendon would come around-no son of theirs could be gay. After all. he couldn't do this to them -couldn't he sec how much they loved him'? 
Obviously not. This would also be my response to any individual that asked if I felt that John and Anne Paulk were prPaching a valid interpretation of Christianity. Paulk offers. "As a lesbian. I found hurt people just wanting somPOJHl to love. As a Christian, I found loving peopk just wanting to heal my hurt." Let's take a motm~nt to really consider Paulk's statement. 
Translation: Being gay made me miserable. Christianity brought me happiness. Ah, but what was the price? Essentially. this "transformation" boasts a hefty price tag. Last time I checked, it was detrimental to sacrifice your identity just to fit in with the crowd. As I recall, Jesus did not say, "I will love you IF... " Jesus' love is not conditional and he is the Christian exem­plum. Who are we to question Jesus Christ? What Jesus did say \vas. "Let he who is without sin cast the first stone." In my estimation. the "In Love and Out of llomosexuality" leeture is the equivalent of throwing a boulder at the gay community here at Notre Dame. 
\VI' are all pagans. We continue to worship the same ignorance and intolerance that have pervaded this country's history for centuries. From slavery, to the Japanese War Helocation camps of WWII. to the Cold War, we have struggled, as a society, to constrict the boundaries of out· acceptance in maintaining {1 narrow "comfort zone." Today, we arc faced with homophobia because we have forgotten our past. But we cannot for­get-we must rt~membcr because we arc responsible for our history, and in turn. our future. 
Look around you -I would bet that there is at least one "IPI'ty" in your life. In fact, I would argue that you have been the left-handed person at some point-we have all felt that we did not belong at some time in our lives; as the "nerd" who knew how to write his name in kimlergarten bef'on~ all the other kids, as the last girl to get picked when it was time to play schoolyard basket­ball, etc. We have all felt inadequate. We have all had that pencil grabbed from our left hand and forced into our right. The "In Love and Out of Homosexuality" lee­tun~ does just this. I write this letter for my mother. I write this letter for Brendon. I write this letter for all of us. Let us try and change the way we look at the differ­Pnces that exist among us. I challenge you to stop your­self from grabbing the pencil from the left-handed per­son's grip. 
In 1968. Chilean poet Pablo Neruda wrote, "I want all the hands of tlw world to kneed mountaii1s of bread) gather all fish in the sea... " Truly the left hand and the right hand must work together in reaching out to the community. I am not advocating that each one of us takes on the Feeding of Five Thousand. only that no one of us denies another the right to spiritual nourish­ment. true Christian love, respect. and ACCEPTANCE. 
Maria Alevras Freshman. Welsh Family Hall April 14, 1998 


Smile at Security, Respect the Working Class 
I am appalled at the insensitivity, arrogance and effete snobbery . 
exhibited by letter writers Chris Petersen and Dustin Martin regardR 
ing their experiences as not being allowed to drive on campus by 
Security, and at The Observer for their obvious bias and support ill 
the cartoons and prominence displayed in printing both u~tters. 
I had the experience of working for campus Security as summer 
employment last year. and I can assure you that there are two sides 
to this particular coin. Having spent many hours at both guard 
gates, I speak from experience when 1say that very few of those 
who approach the gate exhibit the "courtesy and goodwill" and the · 
"pinch of kindness" that Petersen and Martin so long to be treated 
with. Instead, many, (not all, mind you, but many) Notre Dame stu.. 
dents approach the guard at the gate with an obvious disdain and 
attitude of superiority, not to mention verbal abuse, name calling, 
and repeated requests for special treatment. If I had the proverbial 
nickel for every time someone told me how their parents are distin­
guished alumni or how much their parents donate and contribute to 
Notre Dame and thus expect special treatment, I could retire now 
and not worry about finishing grad school. 
It would be nice, in an ideal world. that Se~urity would notsuspec;t that those who request permission to drive on campus were lying. It would be nicer still if so many.students did nqt Ji~ to ~e~qrity in, order.to drive.on campus, especially those abletbodied thatfef)Lthe compelling need to lie in order to avoid expending the eff()rtofwalk­ing. Since the University does not provideits Security officers with a crystal ball or access to the Psychic Friends Network. it unfortunate­ly becomes necessary to question the credibility ofsome of those. who approach and to turn some away. Again, I can personally attest to countless numbers with a variety of reasons who feel they deserve special treatment. While they can be commended for their creativity, · what they never seem to realize is that their lack of planning or their inconvenience does not constitute an emergency for therest of the world. 
But what is worse, and what I findthe most distressing about the attitude of both letter writers (and The Observer), is their ridicule of and insensitivity towards the people who are just doing whatthey are told to do by their employers. If you have a gripe with the · University's policy of driving on campus, then take it up with the administration, not those who work for a living and are paid to enforce what the University has set forth as a policy. Most of these people are honest and hardworking individuals just trying to make a living. Many are forced to work here as a second {and, in a few cases, third) job in order to support themselves and their families. Many are single parents, and some are retired and forced to supple­ment their incomes with this job, just to help them make ends meet in an unfair and oceasionally cruel world that is sometimes more unfair and more cruel to some than to others. With the opportunities that we, as students, have been given in being privileged enough to attend an institution of this caliber comes a responsibility to those who have not been fortunate enough to have been given the same opportunity. That responsibility does not include ridicule and verbal abuse. Demeaning phrases like "fake policeman,'' ''ready and willing to pull a Rodney King," and "Gatekeeper of Shangri-la," along with The Observer's insulting cartoons, have no place in an institution like Notre Dame. They are not only insulting to those whom they intended to put down, they are insulting to the vast majority of Notre Dame students who are above such arrogance and insensitivity. 
Martin asks for "just an ounce of kindness from these people." I'm sure that's what most of "these people" would ask of him. Martin says he "would be hallucinating if I saw one of them smile and say 'have a good day."' I'm sure they would feel the same way, especial­ly after spending eight hours at another job and then coming here for another eight. after all, courtesy and respect work both ways, don't they? Martin laments how "innocent people are treated at our fine university." But it can also be lamented how the employees of our fine University are treated by others for doing what they are told in order to keep their jobs. I wonder when the last time was that he smiled, or said "hello," or "have a nice day" to any of the employees at Notre Dame, whether they were from maintenance, groundskeep­ing, building services, food services, or (gasp!) even Security. Finally, Chris Petersen speaks ofhow his shoulder "still hurts a little because that bag was heavier than it looked." I can assure you, Chris, that the insults hurled at the working people you look down on will hurt them long after your shoulder heals. 
Paul Magro 
2nd Year Graduate Student 
April 13, 1998 

Red, White and Guns 
0 
nc day a few years ago, while teaching English at 
the Chinese University of 

Hong Kong, my students and I 
began to look at the ways individu­
als react to the mention of the name 
of a country. 
"What do you think of when you 
think of France?" I asked, and they 
thought of Paris, of art, Ravel and 
Monet, boats on the Seine, and pret­
ty girls. 
"What do you think of when you 
think of Germany?" They thought of 
Hitler, the Nazis, the war and the 
Holocaust. But they thought, too, of 
BMW and Mercedes cars, and of the 
exceptionally fine technicians who 
made those precision products. 
Italy reminded them of gladiators 
and Emperors, of red Ferarris, 
Rome, Pisa, and of wonderfully big 
mama-types cooking spaghetti and 
pizzas to the sounds of an accor­
dion. 
With India it was tea and spices, a 
lot of people, and poverty. 
Singapore was a clean, neat and 
well-ordered environment; Russia 
was a place of Chernobyl and confu­
sion; Japan was a country of com­
puters. geishas, Hiroshima and 
Hondas. And Mexico -poor Mexico 
-was a land of poor people, cac­
tus, sandy deserts, tacos and ser­
apes. 
Because I'm from the United 
States, I purposely saved my last 
question until the end of our discus­
sion: "What do you think of when 
you think of the United States?" 
Guns. Earthquakes. Hollywood, and television violence. Movie stars. School kids being shot on school 
·~ 
grounds. Viet Nam. Graffiti in New 
York. Murder. The Gulf War. NASA 
and the Space Program. A1 Capone. 
Drive-by shootings. Snipers on the 
freeways. And guns, guns and more 
guns ... 
For the next 10 years I incorpo­rated that line of questioning into my classes, and during those years the responses I got were always the same. I thought of that the other day when reading "A New Act At the NRA," an editorial from The Capitol Times of Madison. Wisconsin which I found on the internet. 
So the National Rifle Association now has Moses (Charlton Heston) as its vice-president. Following quickly on the heels of that piece of infor­mation, this very morning I read this headline in a London newspa­per: "Every Day Over 600 People Are Shot In America. Fourteen of them are school children." 
The way I see it, the real news isn't that the NRA has Heston but that the United States has the NRA. Image surely counts for something, and to me, and many others living abroad, the most astonishing thing is that a free people go on, decade after decade, permitting themselves to be manipulated and exploited by an organization whose sole objec­tive is to put a gun (preferably smoking'?) in the hand of every man, woman and child in America! 
Once upon a time, lleston hoisted high a pair of stone tablets (in a film) and proclaimed to mankind the wisdom of obeying certain rules written thereon. One of them assert­ed "THOU SHALT NOT KILL" 
In his position today as the cham­pion of a set of reckless and irre­sponsible terrestrial laws, I wonder about this man Heston. Has he gone from playing Moses to playing God? 
Some promotion! Only the NRA. which is above shame, could have thought of such a thing. 
John Bell Smithback March 28, 1998 

~ll.&l.llllllllll~llllllllllllllll....ll..llllllllllllll..ll~....~....n-..........~..~....~._...................-..~~~·~--~aa~----------·-~-~.-.--.-----~------~..4~~~·•·~·.--..a....~..........­

cene 
page 12 ------------------~OBSERVER -----------------Thursday, April16, 1998 Thursday, April 16, 1998 ­


! 
J 
\' 
'( 
I 
I 
1i if .H 
( 
'· 
tJ 
r
II 
~ 
'( 
~ 
,, 
·, 
ll ; 
Top: ~ona Reodic~ helps a camper at a Newark Boys and Girls Club find the pina­
ta dunng a celebration of cultural diversity. Middle: Reodica poses with the girls from the volleyball clinic she organized and ran. 
Bottom: Martha Gibney works with some of the youth from the church where she volunteered. 
Photos courtesy of Rona Reodica and Martha Gibney 


By MICHELLE BARTON Assisram Scene Ediror 
Ask Notre Dame students about their experiences doing a Summer Service Project and the first thing you will notice is the surge of excitement that enters their voices as they respond. Immediately the volunteers enthusiastically begin to talk about a special bond with a homeless child, about starting a volleyball dinie or about the young boy from tlw inner-city who wanted to give his O!JlY souvenir from his trip to tlw zoo as a gift. 
Notre Dame students are known for their sense of civic duty and their desire to havP a positive influence in the lives of others. Many students have already dis­covered that it is never too early to adopt a lifestyle of contribution to society and others. The Center for Social Concerns pro­vides students with an opportunity to make an impact on society while continuing to grow themselves by par­ticipating in a Summer Service Project. 
This summer, many opportunities for ND stu­dents to participate in a Summer Service Project are still available. 
Working at AIDS centers, homeless shel­ters, crisis pregnancy centers and cen­ters for abused and neglected children are just a few of the numerous oppor­tunities for students to spend part of their summer volunteering. 
Summer Service Projects take place in cities with Notre Dame alumni clubs and students can choose which city they would like to work in and often work in cities that are not near their home. The alumni dubs organize a pro­ject which fits the needs of their eity, pro­vide moral support for the ND student and providn a $1 700 Soeial Concerns tuition scholarship for the student. 
Last summer, 195 ND students spent eight weeks of the summer volunteering in cities across thn United States as well as in the Dominkan Hepublic and Ilong Kong. 
Sometimes the hectic scheduh• of the academic vnar can leave one fn£~1ing Lf~mpted to spend tlw summer leistm~ly enjoying the absenen of dasses or working in an air-conditioned mall. Although both may be truly enticing options, one may d(~cide, as Notre Dame senior Katie Evans did, that the summer should be used "to gain a 1ww experim1ce with service and to be mon· intensely involved in peoples' lives in a new environment." 
Last summer. Evans did a Summer Service Project in lndianaolis, Ind. She volunteered at the East 1Oth United Methodist Children and Youth Center and worked with low-ineome children from 5 to 12 years old who were attending summer camp. While in Indianapolis, Evans lived with an eld!~rly woman in the neighborhood where she volunteerc~d. 
The alumni dubs find living arrangements for the volunteers which range from living in the place wlwre they work, sueh as a homeless shelh~r. to a housP near their site or the home of a Notn~ Dame alumni. 
At first it may be difficult to leave the comfort of suburbia and work with people who \'\'P may not be used to working with, but the leap often proves both nwntallv and emotionallv enlightening. · · 
"Going out of my comfort zone and into a totally new environnwnt brought out skills I didn't even know I had," explained Evans. Last summer. Notre Dame junior Hyan Engln worked at a day camp run by the Boys Club of Hapid City. South Dakota. lie too found it to be a tremendously rewarding expnri£~nn'. 
From working as a general supervisor at the camp to coordinating the camp's sumnwr talent show to counseling and discussing school or home-related problems with the young boys. Engle experienced the "opportunity to give back to the community and help others" that he desired. 
Engle had also hoped to gain something else -a broader view of the world. "At Notre Dame, we become apart from the social problems facing the country and this is an opportunity for us to face the problems that we usually don't see," he explained. 
ec 
The projeets an~ eentered arOL. and expose volunteers to experh 
Many of the children sophomo Girls Clubs in Newark, N.J., we parent was oft1m a drug addiet comfortable environment. 
"They knew that it was their 01 
Besides running an arts and leading games, Heodiea also initi "]It was] in reflect£ 
5 -­
~ 
landsrar dren slw worked Johnson learned that while sh being immersed in service, in h you'rp pulling them up. it's an e 
BPing in a eomplPtely IWW env both challenging and draining. that I couldn't just walk into th• o1w go to high school or change 
Those who partieipate in a Su up course run by the Center f< The course is an attempt to pn were a result of' the project. ~ they havP learned in the future. teer for a project receive three c 
Summer Snrvieo Projects allm ni to help spread tlw spirit of ai 
Heodica, lih her peers, high!~ about this project. I always thi she explainNI. 
If you are searching for som Summer Service Project is an o thesf~ projects, because the top before to get a light in their eye 
Mexico Setninar 
provides opportunity 
for students to discuss social injustices 
By CARRIE SCHROEDER and MARYANNE GARVIE Scene Writers 
Most people at Notre Dame that go to Mexico spend their time in Cancun. This May, a group of 13 Notre Dame students will spend two weeks in Mexico -but it's no 
vaeation. These 13 students will be undertaking an experimental learning seminar in Mexico City and Cuernavaca. The 
participants have spent the semester preparing for their v trip through readings, discussions and fundraising activi-<1 ties. e 
Although the seminar isn't a$ well known as other ser~ u vice~learning opportunities, such as the Applachia Seminar, it has an extensive history here at Notre Dame. s 
The Mexico Seminar began in the 1960s. and even J: University President Edward "Monk" Malloy is a former participant. The seminar provides students with the c opportunity to experience the realities of developing t countries in tatin America. t1 
This year's group will spond the two wcoks from May n 12~31 in Mexico City at the ~;J.sa de los Amigos and in Cuernavaca at Augsburg Co1Iege's Center for Global r Education. The participants will visit with the local non­governmental organizations and other groups in the com~ s munity. . s 
Many of the students who will be participating in the seminar are already very conscious of human rights and t social justice issues. One of1this year's participants. c Stanford Hall freshman Matt Brummer, wants to use this ( opportunity as a stepping stone for future missionary 

cene 
Thursday, April 16, 1998 ---------------~OBSERVER ----------------------------------------------page13 

ec 
s 
The projects are centered around working with thosl' living at or below the poverty level and expose volunteers to experiences dlld peopln they don't often encounter. 
Many of the children sophomore Rona Heodiea worked with at three different Boys and Girls Clubs in Newark, N.J., were raised in dysfunctional families and homes where one parent was often a drug addict. The dub Heodica worked at provided the kids with a comfortable environment. 
"They knew that it was their only safe haven," she said. 
Besides running an arts and erafts elass, helping children with their homework and leading games, Reodiea also initiated a volleyball clinic for the girls at the club. 
"lit was] inspiring seeing the girls work to learn the sport," she 


refleeted. 
Many students who participated in a Summer Service 
Project last sumer had little idea what to expeet, but most found the experience has had far-reaching 
effects in their lives. Senior Gregg Van Slambrook did a Summer Service Project before his sophomore year 
i 
at the Catholic Workers' Homeless Shelter in Kansas City, Kan., "[The project] changed my outlook on a lot of things, 
--I 
I 
shaped a lot of my cure beliefs and values that I've kept since then," he said. 
During his project, Van Slambrook lived in a small room in the shelter and spent his days washing, clean­ing and repairing the building or 
spending time with the four children of a nearby family. 
After working at a homeless shelter called the Hope House in Milwaukee, \\'is., two summers ago, senior Sarah Johnson decided to do a year of service after graduation and, instead, to continue doing service all her life. Johnson worked with children in the an~a and with two women who did ease \vork for drug addicts and alcoholics. Every day, as she rode hnr bike from tlw suburbs where lived· with a Notre Dame alumni family. she could sec the landscape change until she reached the inner-city \vhere the chil­

dren she worked with would ask her for 50 ct~nts. 
Johnson Iearrwd that whiln she was volunteering, she was also gaining. "Eight weeks of being immersed in service, in helping others. puts your lift~ in perspective ... it's not like you're pulling them up, it's an even exchange," she said. 
Being in a eomplettdv new environment and working with society's disadvantaged can be both rhallnnging and (training. For Evans, one of the most dil'licult lessons was "learning that I couldn't just walk into the center.... that my presenr.n wasn't going to make some­otw go to high school or change their life, but that you are planting seeds." 
Those wlH) participate in a Sumnwr Servin~ Project are also encouraged to take a follow­up (~omse run by the Centt~r for s()(:jaJ Concerns called "Theology and Social Ministry." The course is an attempt to provide eohesion between the experience and the ideas that were a result of the project. Students also discuss how they can proeess and use what they have learned in the future. Regardless of partieipatiun in this class, those who volun­teer for a project receive three credits by doing sueh things as keep a daily journal. 
Summt~r Serviee Projects allow Notre Dame students the opportunity to work with alum­ni to help spread tlw spil'it of aiding others in cities across the country. 
Heodica. like her peers, highly recommends doing a project. "There is something special about this project. I always think about it and I am amazed at how much you can grow," she explained.
If you are searching for something mt~aningful to devote your time to this summer, a Summer Service Project is an option to consider. There must be something special about these projects, because the topic always leads thost~ who have volunteered for a project before to get a light in their eyes, pull down tlw photo album and begin to tell a story. 
'mester preparing for their i~ns and fundraising activi~ 
tS wen known as other ser~ ;\ such as the Applachia lstory here at Notre Dame. 
n· in the 1960s. and even "Monk" Malloy is a former rovides students with the he realities of developing 
d the two weeks from May ~;J.sa de los Amigos and in lllege's Center for Global ~·ill visit with the local non­lld other groups in the com~ 
will be participating in the scious of human rights and ffthis year's participants, Rrummer, wants to use this Lone for future missionary work and also as a compliment to his anticipated Spanish and peace studios major. But what Brummer is really excited about is the friendships that will be formed while undertaking this journey. 
At Notre Dame students learn a lot in class about hard­ships faced by people in other countries. Mexico Seminar participants get to see these issues firsthand. . As one of last year's participants said upon returning. "I came home with the memory of a tangible encounter with the issues of poverty and global justice. I feel that I have an improved awareness of social and economic situations abroad. I was deeply touched by all the people I met." 
Hopefully this year's participants will have an equally meaningful experience. 
The seminar is financed entirely by fees paid by each student and fundraising and donations throughout the semester. 
The whole group is extremely enthusiastic about its upcoming experience. Anyone interested in making a donation should contact the Center for Social Concerns at 631-5293. 


----.w
................~~----------------------------~~-J--~-~C~-~~~~--~--.W-----------------------------------------------------­
• 
Thursday, April 16, 1998 

page 14 The Observer· SPORTS 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 
Yankees win at Shea in first AL-NL doubleheader 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

On an unprecedented day when the 
Yankees and Mets shared Shea, Darryl 
Strawberry felt right at home. 
Playing a home game outside of their fabled Bronx ballpark for the first time in 23 years, the Yankees stretched their winning streak to six Wednesday, beat­ing the Anaheim Angels 6-3 as Strawberry had three hits including a home run. 
The first-ever AL-NL doubleheader was created when Yankee Stadium was declared unsafe Monday -just live days before its 75th anniversary. The Yankees, who used Shea Stadium in 1974 and '75 when their own ballpark was remodeled, postponed the first two games of their series against the Angels and moved the finale across town to home of the Mets. who had a regularly scheduled game against the Chicago Cubs on Wednesday night. 
Never before had there been AL and NL games on the same day in the same park. Strawberry, who became a star in this ballpark while playing for the Mets, homered off Omar Olivares in the fifth inning. The crowd of 40,743 -many bought $2 tickets months ago as part of a Yankee Stadium 75th anniversary pro­motion -even brought Strawberry out for a curtain call and some gave him a standing ovation when he batted again in the seventh. 
Strawberry was 3-for-4, Paul O'Neill had three hits and two RBis, and Tino Martinez hit a pair of RBI doubles for the Yankees, 7-1 since their 0-3 start. 
David Wells (2-1) gave up four hits and left in the ninth inning after a leadoff home run by Gary DiSarcina and a walk. lie also surrendered a seventh-inning homer by Darin Erstad and an eighth­inning homer by Phil Nevin. Wells struck out eight and walked one. 
Jeff Nelson got three outs for his first save. 
O'Neill's HBI single and Martinez's run-scoring double put the Yankees ahead 2­0 in the first. Martinez doubled in anoth­er run in the third, and New York increased the lead to 5-0 in the fourth when Ken llill (2-1) threw a wild pitch with a runner on third and O'Neill tripled home a run. 
Expos 4, Brewers 3 

Shane Andrews homered for the sec­ond consecutive day and Trey Moore earned his first major league win as the Montreal Expos beat the Milwaukee Brewers 4-3 Wednesday night. 
Moore (1-1) pitched six strong innings, allowing two runs. and four hits. He also went 2-for-2 with a double. 
Ugueth Urbina got four outs for his third save. 
Andrews hit a solo homer off Jeff Juden (2-1) with one out in the fourth, giving Montreal a 4-1 lead. Juden gave up four runs and eight hits in seven innings. 
Milwaukee made it 4-2 in the sixth as John Jaha hit a two-out, RBI double. Fernando Vina homered with one out in the eighth off Expos reliever Anthony Telford. 
Juden allowed a pair of one-out singles to begin the game, then walked three consecutive batters, including Rundell White and Jose Vidro with the bases loaded. 
Juden escaped a jam by getting Andrews to ground into an inning-ending double play. 
Jose Valentin's sacrifice fly in the Milwaukee second made it 2-1, but the Expos came right back in their half. Chris Widger doubled and scored when Moore's single was misplayed by center fielder Marquis Grissom for an error. 
Red Sox 4. Athletics 3 

Troy O'Leary gave the Boston Red Sox 
their fourth victory in their last at-bat in 
six games, singling in the deciding run in 
a 4-3 decision over Oakland on Friday 
night. 

Dennis Eckersley (1-0), pitched a per­
fect ninth for Boston after struggling in 
his first three outings of the homestand 
when his ERA rose from 3.38 to 14.54. 

T.J. Mathews (0-2) got the first two batters out in the bottom of the ninth. Then John Valentin hit a ground-rule double to right field and Mo Vaughn was walked intentionally. 
O'Leary, who had homered, singled 
and grounded out twice, then singled 
cleanly to right and Valentin scored easi­
ly. He also hit a homer Tuesday night 
when Boston scored three runs in the 
eighth and won 8-6. 


Boston, which swept just two home 
series of three games or more last sea­
son, has swept two in a row against 
Seattle and Oakland, who began the day 
with a combined record of 5-19. 

The Red Sox are 9-5 but five wins have 
come against Oakland. They end the 
homestand with four games starting 
Friday against Cleveland. 

It was another tough loss for the 
Athletics, who have led in 11 of their 12 games and have lost eight games by two 
runs or less. 
After O'Leary's homer in the second, Oakland went ahead with two runs in the third. Jason McDonald walked with two outs and scored on BPn Grieve's double. After Matt Stairs walkPd, Jason Giambi singled in McDonald. 
Boston tied the game 2-2 in the fourth on a two-out triple by Darren Lewis and a run-scoring single by Mike Benjamin. Lewis was involved in the go-ahead run when he grounded into a double play in the sixth. But the bases were loaded and O'Leary, who had singled, scored. 
Oaklapd tied the game 3-3 in the sev­enth on doubles by Rafael Bournigal and McDonald. 
Reds 4, Astros 1 

The Cincinnati Reds extended their 
offensive surge Wednesday night as 
Willie Greene and Chris Stynes homered 
for a 4-1 victory over the Houston Astros. 
The Beds got their fourth victory in five 
games and matched their win total for 
last April in half the time. 
The Astros lost their third in a row ­
their only losing streak of the season ­
as Shane Reynolds (1-2) fell to 1-7 career 
against the Reds and 1-5 in eight games 
in Cincinnati. 
The right-hander had trouble against a 
lineup that has just emerged from a deep 
slump. The Reds scored 44 runs while 
winning three of four in Colorado, raising 
their team average from .227 to .275. 
Greene hit a three-run homer in the 
second inning and Stynes added a solo 
homer, his fourth, in the fifth inning to 
hand Brett Tomko (2-1) a 4-l lead. The 
right-hander allowed only three singles 
and walked four over eight innings, and 
Jeff Shaw pitched the ninth for his fourth 
save in five chances. 
Tomko also hit shortstop Ricky 
Gutierrez on the left hand with a pitch in 
the seventh. X-rays found no fracture 
and the injury was diagnosed as a bruise. 
The Astros had base runners in five of 
the first seven innings, but wound up 
stranding six. Several Astros have fallen 
into deep slumps during the last eight 
games, all on the road: Richard Hidalgo 
is 2-for-19; Brad Ausmus is 2-for-17; 
Sean Berry is 1-for-20. 
Houston's only run came in the fifth, 
when Hidalgo singled, stole second and 
came around on Tony Eusebio's single 
up the middle. 
Cincinnati opened the second inning 
with singles by Eddie Taubensee and 
Eduardo Perez and Greene's third homer. Greene has driven in 10 runs in the last five games. 
Stynes led ofT the fifth with his fourth solo homer. Stynes, the Reds' leadoff hit­ter, has been a catalyst in the five-game 
surge, going  13-for-24  with three  
homers.  
Braves 7, Pirates 0  

Greg Maddux pitched a six-hitter for his first shutout since last July, leading the Atlanta Braves to a 7-0 victory over the Pittsburgh Pirates on Wednesday night. 
Maddux {1-1) struck out five, did not walk a batter, and retired 17 Pirates on ground balls. He reduced his EHA to 0.56, allowing two earned runs in 32 innings this season, and has given up only five earned runs in his last 61 innings dating to Sept. 6. 
The shutout was Atlanta's second in a row, following Kevin Millwood's one-hit­ter against Pittsburgh on Tuesday night. Pittsburgh lost its third in a row to drop to 1-4 against Atlanta this season. 
Walt Weiss and Chipper Jones each had three hits for the Braves, and Maddux and Eddie Perez added two-hit performances. 
Pittsburgh starter Jose Silva (1-2) allowed six runs and 11 hits in 4 2-3 innings. He walked four and struck out five in his first eareer appearance against the Braves. 
Braves cleanup hitter Andres Galarraga, who doubh~d in a run, was hit on the left knee by Jeff Tabaka's pitch in the sixth inning. Galarraga was removed from the game because of a bruise, and is listed as day-to-day. 
The Braves had given Maddux only three runs of support in his first three starts, but matched that in three innings Wednesday night. 
Jones homered in his third straight game, hitting his seventh of the season 438 feet to center in the first inning. Jones. who has a six-game hitting streak, hit a waist-high fastball on the outside corner. 
Jones ignited a two-run third with a lcadofl' singh lie scored on Galarraga's double to left, his 1Oth HBl in his last six games. Galarraga took third on Ryan Klesko's flyout to left, then scored on Perez's groundout. 
Atlanta made it 6-0 with three runs in the fifth. Andruw Jones doubled in two runs, and Weiss had an HBI double. Chipper Jones completed the scoring with an RBI single in the eighth. 
The C?bserver accepts classitleds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Not~e Dame otlice, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline tor next-day clas­
sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edir all classifieds lor content wirhout issuing n..funds. 
Classifieds 
~-N_O_T_I_C_Es__~ll~__FO__R_RE_N__T~  FREE SUMMER STORAGE '98·'99. 4·6BED. 2-CAR GAR. WID. V-BALL CT. VERY SAFE.  HOUSE LEASE 4BR 2BA PT FURN W/0/ Df\N WALK-NO AVAIL 611 GRAD PREF  ADOPTION IS LOVE Happily married NO Alumni couple, with adopted 3 year old daughter,  Your mother.  
Mexico/Caribbean only $250 r/t.  College Park Apartment: 2 bed­ 234-3831 I 273-0482  (773)288-8822  wants to shower a new baby with  
Europe $290 o/w. Other worldwide  room, 2 bath loft apartment avail·  love. Artistic full-time mom, athletic  San Antonio,  
destinations cheap. ONLY TER­RORISTS GET YOU THERE  able tor sublet June-August Call Beth at 284·4399  College Park Apartment for SUBLET tor 2 month minimum.  FOR SALE  lawyer dad, and a sister to play with. Friends on the swingset. trips  Miss you around the office. you sassy young thing.  
CHEAPER! Air-Tech  Maximum of 4 people to rent.  to the zoo, grandma, play groups,  Love, Los Angeles  
(212)219-7000. (800)575· TECH.  Now Renting  $175 per person. Willing to  Beautiful brass bed, queen size,  lullabies, too. This is a home where  
.,•  www.airtech.com  Campus View 1 & 2 Bedrooms  negotiate. CALL 273-9235  with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame. New. never used, still  wishes come true. We'd like to get to know you. Call Shawn & Meg  If anyone is driving home tor the summer and interested in giving a  
!LOST & FOUNDI  2 Blocks from campus 272·1441  Interested in subletting a 2 Bdrm College Park Apartment tor the  plastic. $225 219·862-2082  800-767 ·4257. Legal/Medical/Allowable exp. paid.  freshman a ride to home, or some­where near that, please give me a  
Summer? Call 4-3857  call at 1234. 1  
LOST: Man's silver bracelet somewhere on campus. Great  SUMMER SUBLET Spacious furnished 1 bdrm (big  Best Offer.  PERSONAL  Hey you, up in the clouds, see your·  
sentimental value. Please call  enough for 2). $480/mo + utilities.  4BR house close to NO.  BOBAPALOOZA '98  self drowd. Bu !then you wake up  
Danny at273-0147.  Reward  Call 243-2621  grad students only unfurnished.  Hey-didyou know...  **. **. ***. **••••••*** •••••• * ••••  and are in your safe happy world  
offered. THANX  233-1727 1 ,300  Tonight marks the final appearance  once again.  
Nice 5 bdrm. 2 bath full basement.  We're open early, late, and week­ of STOMPER BOB  
WANTED  Walking distance to campus. 350/rm. utilities & appl., W/0 incl.  ROOMS AVAILABLE GRADUA­ ends for your convenience! 0¢0 THE COPY SHOP 00¢  at the IRISH CONNECTION. Come out and cheer NOs hardest-working  If it rains again, but then the sun comes out really fast, the worms  
Taking deposits tor  TION & FOOTBALL WEEKENDS.  LaFortune Student Center  band for the past 3 years. In their  will cook themselves on the side·  
CRUISE SHIP &LAND-TOUR  98-99 sci. yr.  LESS THAN 2 MILES FROM CAM·  Phone 631·COPY  first full length show in over two  walks instead of us having to cook  
JOBS -Excellent benefits. World  277-5483.  PUS, CONT. BRKFST INCL. CALL  months, STOMPER BOB wants to  them in the dorms!  
Travel. Ask us how! 517-324·3090  277-8340  ADOPTION: Hugs, daisies and  thank all of its fans for their support  
ext. C55841  Summer and or Fall 3 bdr home.  babbling brooks in summer.  over the years and tor this year  Why buy something when you can  
2 blks from campus 273-1566  We need two people or one female  Snuggles.. skisuits and a toasty fire­ especially, and thus have prepared  steal it for tree?  
Sales/Marketing Internships  roommate to sublet our nice house:  place in winter. Love and joy for  a fabulous lineup. STOMPER BOB  
University Directories is hiring stu­ ALL SIZE HOMES  near campus, furnished. Call Peter  your baby all year long. Happy, car­ will play all night downstairs, while  I hope life isn't one big joke,  
dents to sell yellow page advertis­ CLOSE TO CAMPUS  251-0815.  ing professional couple would love  U. of Illinois' best band and  because I don't get it.  
ing for the official campus tele­ 232-2595  to provide a newborn with love, joy  Hammerhead recording artists KAI  
phone directory this summer. Paid  Tri-level 3 bedroom house, 1 .5  and security. Call Ed and Ellen at 1­ MERA will perform their unique  I think a fun thing to do to a kid is,  
internship. Training program.  Furn. room, air, kitchen, private  miles from campus across from  800-484-7011 Pin #4523  rock/pop blend in the pimp lounge.  when he asks why it is raining, is to  
Excellent sales/marketing &man­ entrance, phone, laundry facilities,  park, with 1.5 bath, family room with  OJ FOnz and WALKmama will keep  say, "God's crying." Then when he  
agement experience. Call  utilities included. $200/mo.  fire place. 2 car garage & fenced in  you dancing all night long. Doors at  asks you why God is crying, you  
1-800-743·5556 Ext. 143 or visit  272·0615.  backyard. Has ale, stove, trig., d/w,  8, show at 10:30.  can tell him, "Probably because of  
www.universitydirectories.com  g/d, & w/d.  LOOKING FOR A JOB FOR THE  something you did."  
1 ,2,3&4 BDRM HOMES NEAR  960 per mo. 289-5057 or 232·4527  '98-'99 ACADEMIC YEAR?  BOBAPALOOZA '98  
MODELS NEEDED! Female and  CAMPUS.GILLIS PROPERTIES  THE COPY SHOP in LaFortune is  Run to your local store to get Easter  
Male Models for an upcoming  272-6551  now accepting applications for next  candy really cheap!!!  
A VEDA production. Model calls are  tall. Student positions are limited  
being held now. Have tun and get  Bed & Breakfast tor NO graduation  Rooms in private house. 1 mile  so apply early.  No one will let me interview them.  ! @#$%"&""1& @"%"&#$&$"#$#@"  
a great new look. Please call 1·800·  & Football. 3 miles from NO. 287­ from NO. Summer rental.  Why is that? Are Matt and I repul­ %& @ @ #$%#%"%"  
356·5533 ext 1209 for information.  4545  Greg 634·0766  sive or something? Hmm.  I love The Observer  

•
..--~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~!~------------~ 
Thursday, April 16, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• COLLEGE fOOTBAll 
Bo Jackson knows the College Football Hall of Fame 
Associated Press baseball, was among 12 mem­Corrigan, chairman of the Hall played," bers voted into the College of Fame committee that made Corrigan INDIANAPOLIS football llall of Fame the final selections. said at a Bo Jackson, the 1985 Wednnsday. "His career was cut short by news con­lleisman Trophy winnnr at "How good an athlete was bad hips, but anybody who ference at Auburn who went on to play in he? Maybe the best to suit up ever saw him play knew he the Hall of the NFL and in major league anywhere," said Gene was one of the best that ever Fame in 
s 0 u t h Bend. 
National Football Foundation and College Hall of Fame's annual awards dinner in New York. They will 

b e ~~ enshrined Bo Jackson, the 1985 Heisman Trophy winner, went on during cer-to play for the Raiders in the NFL after his college days. 


&:..:
.::­
~. 
~ 
i. ' . 
~ 
LKNE DANCING 

7:30 -9:30pm 
Lafortune Ballroom 
Cost $5.00 r-----------, 

0 
~XIP)(~Jrn ~liTL©~ 
illl~~dl~cdl Cl ll:frn~ JD)Jr wiillll ll:~~©Jh cdl~rrn©~§ ll:Ihnrrl})llll~Ihl ({))lUllt Ltlln~ ..cewcemu1rhl~o 
L-----------..J 

..•.,.~· 
-' 

emonies in South Bend in the summer of 1999. 
Jackson, an All-American at Auburn and MVP of the Southeastern Conference in 1985, played with the Raiders in the NFL and with the Kansas City Royals, Chicago White Sox and California Angels in baseball. He was the 1989 All-Star most valuable player with the Royals. 
A 1992 hip replacement ended his football career. 
Also voted in were Jim McMahon, the Western Athletic Conference MVP three times at Brigham Young and quarterback of the Chicago Bears' Super Bowl 1986 cham­pionship team. and nine oth­
ers who played in tho N~L. 
"There's an absolute case to be made for every single per­son on that list," Corrigan said. "You have to agree they were great players." 
The only inductees who 
attended the news conference were Alex Sarkisian, an All­Big Ten center and linebacker in 1948 who led Northwestern to a Rose Bowl victory over California, and AI Brosky, a defensive back at Illinois who set an NCAA record with 29 career interceptions from 1950-52 and played with the Chicago Cardinals in 1954. 
Sarkisian, who taught and coached in East Chicago, Ind., is a member of the Indiana Football Hall of Fame but the only one of the 12 who did not play in the NFL. 
"It's a great feeling to be inducted into the most presti­gious of the halls of fame," Sarkisian said. "It makes me 
feel humble to be part of the great names already there." 
McMahon, who won the Davey O'Brien Award as the nation's top college quarter­back, was an All-American and third in voting for the Ileisman Trophy in 1981. In addition to the Bears, he played for San Diego, Philadelphia, Minnesota, Arizona, Cleveland and Green Bay. He retired after the 1996 
season. 
Two of the other inductees are now assistant coaches in the NFL Former Missouri run­ning back Johnny Holand is the running backs coach for the Arizona Cardinals, and former Tulsa quarterback Jerry Hhome, the 1964 lleisman runner-up, is offen­sive coordinator for the St. Louis Hams. 
f-~tAToUBA 
jJAPANESE RESTAURANT 
•Authentic•Healthy•Delicious 
Robert is the BEST Chefin Town! 2930 E. McKinley Ave• South Bend, IN 
Lmu h 11 ..!Mon-~a111•l lllll\1'1 0 U:Vlon S;tl15·1 0 ~ 11 & Sat 


BOOK SEARCH 
Used. rare and 


If you need to do some catching up or want to get a jump on fall, summer classes at Holy Cross College may 
out-of-print books be just the ticket. Choose one or both sessions, each offering a wide variety of quality general education 
Initial cost of $2.00 
courses. And pay our summer tuition rate of just $170 per credit hour. 
Nationally -circulated ud 

Take advantage of exceptionally small classes, a dedicated and caring faculty, and our convenient location just Success rate of 5!Yio 
to the west of the University of Notre Dame campus. Credit earned is transferable. And on-campus student Time required: 2 month:i 
housing is available.* • 
ERASMUS BOOKS 

You'll enjoy summer activities even more. knowing that you're also getting ahead in your studies. 
+
Open noon to six
··.Bon

Write or call Holy Cross College today. Applications for Summer Sessions I and II, as well as for 
T Tuesday through Sunday

the 1998 Fall Semester, are now being accepted. CH()~~ 
1027 E. Wa\rne

·~· . CULLE(,E Session I -May /8 to June 25 Office of Admiss'"'·•~ Sovth Bend, IN 46617 PO. Box 308 • Notre Dame. IN 46556
*Session II -june 29 to August 6 
(219) 232-8444

(219) 239-8400. ext. 22 • Fax (219) 233·7427 e·mail: hccadmis@gnn.com 
*On-campus student housing availabiP (or Sess1on II only 

L-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
. 
,. . ~ _.. 





..~....~.. , ........~............~..~~----..~~.. .. ~------~----~------.W4---.--~~~~-.·~· 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, April 16, 1998 
• NHL 
Canadian Hockey getting iced· south of the border 
9:00-10:15 GETTING STARTED IN SPORTS MARKETING Theresa Kelly, ND '90, Assistant Sports Information Director at Lehigh, Georgia NOTRE DRME Scott Paddock, Account Supervisor, Sports Partners, Chicago Bob Crable, ND '82, all-time leading tackler for ND, 1st round draft for NY Jets, Founder Crable Sportswear SPOR+S 10:30-11 :45 MARKETING A SPORTS TEAM, LEAGUE OR PERSONALITY Gary Jacobus, Senior Vice President, Corporate Sports Consulting, MRRKETING International Management Group (IMG) Steve Schanwald, Executive Vice President Marketing and Broadcasting of the Chicago Bulls SYMPOSIUM 12:00-1:15 Lunch and Keynote Address Doug Logan, Commissioner, Major League Soccer Reservations must be made by April 14 at 631-9330 1:30-2:45 WOMEN IN SPORTS Judy Shoemaker, former Vice President, NBA Properties Sue Levin, Director of 'Nomen's Sports Marketing, NikeFRIDAY (will present "play like a girl" campaign) APRIL 17, 1998 3:00-4:15CUBA CORPORATE SPORTS MARKETING Bill Bund, ABC Sports 9:00 AM -5:30 PM Greg Via, Vice President, Gatorade 4:30-5:30sponsored by the Roundtable discussions with speakers UNDERGRADUATE MARKEll NG CLUB in the Atrium  

Associated Press 
TORONTO 

NHL commissioner Gary Bettman issued a blunt warning Wednesday to Canadian fans~ their six NHL teams will have trouble competing with U.S. franchises unless public officials change fiscal policies. 
In a speech to business execu­tives and a subsequent news conference, Bettman outlined the NHL's efforts to boost TV rev­enue for the six Canadian clubs and cushion the impact or the weak Canadian dollar. 
But he suggested that the six franchises will not thrive unless Canadian politicians offer more help in the form of tax breaks and subsidies for new facilities. 
Canadian teams start each season at a disadvantage com­pared to their U.S. counter­parts," he said. "I don't want them to merely survive. I want them to be competitive." 
Bettman cited taxes as a major problem, saying the Montreal Canadiens and Ottawa Senators each pay more in municipal taxes than all 20 U.S. teams combined. The total tax bill for each Canadian team averages four times that of a U.S. team, he said. 
Arena construction is another problem, Bettman said. He noted that the new Nashville team will move into a publicly financed arena, while arenas recently opened or under construction in Ottawa, Montreal and Toronto
' relied on private financing. The Senators even had to pay for construction of a highway exit ramp, Bettman said. 
THE NOTRE DAME POMPON SQUAD 
will be holding 
TRYOUTS 

for the 1998-1999 Squad! 
April 16 -April 20 
COME TO THE FIRST CLINIC April 16; 6-9 pm JACC -Auxiliary Gym (Pit) 
All ND and SMC Women invited 
problems, said he hoped his comments Wednesday would start a public debate on whether more should be done by public officials to support NHL franchis­es. 
At tlw news briefing, skeptical reportPrs questioned whether Canadians would be willing to support tax breaks for pro teams at a time when budget cuts were causing hospitals to close and doctors to stage walkouts. 
Bettman responded that the Canadian government already provides financial support for other industries and should look at pro hockey in the same light. 
"This industry is not getting even close to as favorable treat­ment as other industries," he said. 
Bettman will return to Canada April 28 to testify before a par­liamentary subcommittee that plans hearings on the health of the sports industry -particular­ly hockey -in Canada. 
Fans nationwide have been jarred by several recent develop­ments, ranging from a sex-abuse case involving a prominent junior-league coach to the failure of the men's team to win a medal at the Nagano Olympics. 

Soccer has recently surpassed hockey for the first time as the sport played by the most Canadian youths. And one of the country's leading newspapers ­the Globe and Mail -currently is running a 12-part series on why the sport is in crisis. 
Bettman, well-briefed on these 

~-­----­ 
Thursday, April 16, 1998  The Observer • SPORTS  page 17  

Louisville athletics charged by NCAA 
way for vari­
evicted. ous possible In addition, sanctions the letter against the alleges that programs McCray when the gov· asked about erning body .. special rules as early rates" for the as August. The e l d e r university Johnson must respond prior to his by June 8. Sept. 18 
University­move-in. officials However. 
Women's Lacrosse 
Sunday 

.NCAA 
Georgia Tech buzzing over mascot 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 

Georgia Tech and a minor league baseball team in Salt Lake City are trying to swat each other's mascots with trademark lawsuits. 
Tlw Yellow Jackets have Buzz, a bee decked out in dark blue and gold. The Salt Lake City Buzz have Buzzy, also a blue and gold bee. Both sell mPrchandise with the word Buzz on it. 
"We arc known all over the country as the Buzz. They are the Yf~llmv Jackf~ts. They are not the Buzz," said Joe Buzas, owner of the Utah farm team of the Minnesota Twins. 
But Tammy Tuley, a spokeswoman for Georgia Tech's licensing program, said the university obtained trademarks in 1987 and 1988 for the national and international use of the word Buzz · as it relates to sporting events and clothing. 
'To say anybody outside of Atlanta or Georgia has never heard of Georgia Tech's Buzz would be inaccurate," she said Wednesday. "We play games in a variety of cities ... and have alumni across the country. They associate Buzz with Georgia Tech." 
Buzas' suit, filed in March, asks a Utah judge to rule that his team's name isn't infringing on the univnrsity's trademarks. 
Georgia Tf~eh's lawsuit, filed in Atlanta April 3, allf~ges tlw Utah team is liable for tradema~k infringement and unfair competition because 1ts morchandisn has confused the public. 
"I know of at least one store that sells their mer­chandise because they thought it was Georgia Tech," Tuley said. "We've already found that it has ... cut into our revenue." 

The Notre Dame Law School Natural Law Institute presents 
Moral Truth and the Common 
Good of Political Society 
Thursday and Friday, 
April16-17, 1998 
Notre Dame Law School Courtroom 
Thunday. ~-t a. t na Friday. April t 7. t 998 4p,m, r. ·-~~-9a.m.
I 
Religion end Prtlt:tltMJ Ree.on -Liberalism end Perfectionism Joseph Boyle -~ _I· Peter de Marneffe Principal at St. Michael's College, Associate Professor of Philosophy at Univers;w of Toronto Arizona State University and 
~--.. Fellow in Ethics at Harvard Un1versity 

,-. 
10:30a.m. ~ ··-. · 
-~~1tvth, Disagreement endJudicial Re11iew 
Jlr8flly Waldron Maurice and Hilda Friedman Professor of Law at Columbia Law School 
2p.m. 
The ~ollc' Church end Deliberations About 
Public Poliey in Modem Democracies 
l
I. ,John Finnil f Profasaor of Law and Legal Philosophy at r .Oxf~ Univerwity and Biolchini Family 


Profea~or of L-at Notre Dame Law School 


r "'!"" ; '· 
I ·.'· 

,..,..._____ 
-~~ ·' 
Co·s•·o~sollED HY TilE Ous f:OL'NI>ATION 
~~·._ 
Softba-ll Satttrday vs. UCoiUl (DH) @ Noon 
& 
Stmday vs. St. John's (DH)@ 11:00 
Ivy Field 
~

-.....----~----.:.----------·~~~~-~-!!I'IIIII!I!!IPIIIII!II!III-!11"~"~~_..~~~~~~-hfl~~~~""ll!!'!~~!f..<e.•.•~·-·········=­
The Salt Lake Buzz uniforms arc featured in the upcoming "Major League Ill: Back to the Minors." It could mean a big boost for merchandising, simi­larly to the way "Bull Durham," starring Kevin Costner and Susan Sarandon, boosted the sales of Durham Bulls caps and jerseys. 
Tech makes about $300,000 to $500,000 per year on sales of Buzz · 
merchandise. The money is used for scholar­ships, Tulley said. Buzas said he doesn't know how much his team makes but estimates it at least equals Tech's sales. 
The dispute began in 1996 when a Georgia Tech official spotted the Utah merchandise in an Atlanta store. The two sides discussed an agree­ment that would have had the baseball team stop using the name at the end of this year. 
But Buzas pulled out of the talks in March when, he says, fans in Utah got upset. 
"[ had so many fans tell me, 'You can't change the name.' I decided they were a little more important," he said. 
Buzas has owned the team -originally the Portland, Ore., Beavers -for 13 years. He changed the name five years ago when he mo~ed the team to Utah, which is known as the beehive statn. 
"Nobody ... is going to confuse the two teams," he said. 
Buzas said he would be willing to stop selling his team's merchandise in Georgia and would usc only the full name, Salt Lake City Buzz. 
Tuley said that wouldn't be acceptable. "This isn't about a geographical location. They are trading on a name that we own," she said. 
refused to speculate on likely penalties. However, Ray Nystrand, assis­tant for athletics to Louisville · president John Shumaker. said the NCAA could revoke 
scholarships or  television  
broadcast rights.  
Afterward,  Nystrand  

acknowledged the so-~alled "death penalty" as a "possibili­ty.. for the basketball program, which already is on NCAA pro­bation for allowing athletes improper access to vehicles. 
Shumaker said he considers all violations "major," even those that the· NCAA classifies as "secondary." However. he 
said the university was work­ing diligently to correct the problems and had hired some­one to monitor rules compli­ance. 
"I want to make it clear that for a university of this stature, and for a university with aspi­rations of the sort we embrace, being on probation of any sort, whether it be for· an academic program or an athletic program, is unaccept­able," he said. "'We are deter-
university officials argue that Johnson already had moved in when McCray made the inquiries. 
"While we recognize there is conflicting information around this, we are unable to at this point, on the basis of what we know. to substantiate any claim that Mr.. McCray did this before Mr. Johnson was there." Nystrand said. 
After those violations were detected last Jpne, Shumaker putMcCray on ayear's proba­tion with his salary frozen. 
The allegations against the volleyball team. are even more serious. In addition to the six 
violations that were part of the university report released last July, the NCAA added two .or its own. They were that ass1s· tant coach Mitzy Donhoff vio­lated ethic conduct standards and head coach Leonid Yelin failed to exercise ..appropriate institutional control" over the program. 
Donhoff's contract was not renewed and Yelin was sus­pended for 30 days without pay. 
·'­
.. 

Associated Press 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. 

Calling possible infractions "major," the NCAA on Wednesday outlined eight charges against Louisville's women's volleyball program and one against the men's basketball program. 
While the university report· ed most of the violations last summer, the use of the word "major" in the NCAA's report opened the 
mined to see to it that the cul­ture and the climate within this university make a repeat of these incidents impossible ... 
The citation against the bas­ketball team involves arrange­ments made by assistant coach Scooter McCray in 1996 to keep player Nate Johnson's father from being evicted from a Louisville hotel. McCray admitted giving his personal credit card to the_ Wilson Inn to assure Fredrick Johnson 
wouldn't be 


vs.Gannon@11:00AM 
Moose Krause Field 

Sunday vs. Massachusetts@ 1:00PM 





a • 

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, April 16, 1998 
a 4U 4 Q.__... 2 .¥ . 4. -J¢ p:a_z __ 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 

'House that Ruth built' needs repairs on its 75th 
! 

' 
: ~ 
I I 
: ! 
I 
I 
, I ' } I 
I 
l 
J 
,~­
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Yankee Stadium will spend its 75th birthday on the disabled list -and the city could be get­ting ready to give the ballpark its unconditional release. 
Mayor Rudolph Giuliani said Wednesday that city inspectors examining the stadium -closed Monday after a steel-and-con­crete joint collapsed -had found more problems, including concrete on the stadium's facade that has been damaged by seep­ing water. 
"They are not structural prob­lems that would affect the stadi­um long term, or even from opening, but they are things that now that we have the time we should correct," Giuliani said. 
Yankees owner George Steinbrenner said he expects a decision shortly on his team's future home -whether in the Bronx, Manhattan or New Jersey. 
"I think we will see a decision in 1998," Steinbrenner said in a telephone interview with The Associated Press. "All our options are still the same, but we should make a decision this year." 
For his part, Giuliani moved closer toward ruling out further renovations once the Yankees' lease runs out after the 2002 season. 
"In many ways you are dealing with a 7 5 -year-old baseball park, so that's something as we make plans for the future we have to take a good look at," the mayor said. "I think it means it's more likely that you would build a new ballpark than try to reno­vate it for a second or third time." 
Addressing the issue of water damage to the facade, which was built during a 1974-7 5 remodeling, city buildings com­missioner Gaston Silva said workers will erect scaffcHding around the stadium and check for damage. Any weak area will be repaired, he said. 
"You don't want these pieces floating off and hitting someone on the ground," Silva said. 
Meanwhile, the Yankees' three-game weekend series against the Detroit Tigers, scheduled for Yankee Stadium, was switched to Tiger Stadium. 
Monday's collapse of the 500­pound joint into the stadium's middle deck already had forced the postponement of two games between the Yankees and Anaheim Angels. The teams played Wednesday at Shea Stadium, home of the Mets, with the Yankees winning 6-3. 
Before attending that game, Giuliani said the joint collapse "underscores the need both (New York) teams have for a new baseball field." 
The Mets already are negotiat­ing with the city for a new stadi­um, and the accident Monday has prompted speculation that the Yankees would increase pressure for a new park. 
"I feel no pressure," said Steinbrenner, who repeatedly has threatened to leave the Bronx when the team's lease on the city-owned stadium expires in four years. 
One option mentioned by Steinbrenner has been New Jersey; another is midtown Manhattan, where a 1996 study commissioned by the city, state and team said a stadium with retractable dome, built over rail Giuliani said that would yards, would cost at least $1 bil­change, at both Yankee and lion. Shea stadiums. 


The last detailed inspection of "What we will do every year is Yankee Stadium's structure was go through the kind of inspec­in 1979, when cracks appeared tion we're doing now," he said. in the concrete. City Parks With this weekend's series Department spokesman Ed moved to Detroit, the Yankees Skyler said Wednesday that the now an• scheduled to return to city "had not been inspecting their own stadium April 24. Yankee Stadium cellar-to-roof' "Obviously, issues of safety before Monday's collapse. override all other considera­tions," AL president Gene Budig said in a statement. "Along with the Yankees and Mayor Giuliani, the league wants the unequivo­cal assurance of city inspectors that Yankee Stadium is a safe environment for our fans and our teams." 
Giuliani said the series swap should buy enough time for the city to finish its inspection and reopen the stadium. 

With joy and thanksgiving the Congregation of Holy Cross and the families of: Gary S. Chamberland, C.S.C. 
Thomas P. Doyle, C.S.C. invite you to celebrate their ordination to the priesthood for lifelong service to the people of God. 


Rev. Gary S. Chamberland, C.S.C. (N.D. '84)  Rev. Thomas P. Doyle, C.S.C. (N.D. '89)  
Christ the King Parish  Keough Hall  
South Bend, Indiana  University of Notre Dame  

The Sacrament of Holy Orders will be conferred by the Most Reverend Daniel R. Jenky, C.S.C.. Auxiliary Bishop, Diocese of Fort Wayne-South Bend 
Saturday, April 18, 1998 
1:30 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

THEY ANSWERED THE CALL! 
. -· -.-. . 
Jl
----------· ·~·---------------------­
·t------~--~~--~----.-----~--~-.~.---~~------------------~ 
. Thursday, April 16, 1998 page 19
The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Saturday April18 through Wednesday April22 

Sponsored by the Notre Dame Environmental Coalition 
Irish Outdoors 
Students for Environmental Action (SEA) Recyclin' Irish Terra Club Saint Mary's College-Student Environmental 
Action Coalition (SMC_SEAC) 
Saturday, April 18 
11:00am-4:00pm Sponsored by Recyclin' Irish 
Green Fest at Fieldhouse Mall 
. 

-Hotel Prati @ 11 :30!!! -Skalcoholiks @ 1:30! ! ! -Speakers, tie-dying, food, prizes, and tons of 
cool environmental info!!! _ -Rain Location-Center for Social Concerns 

Spring Clean-Up on Campus Beginning at Fieldhouse Mall 

5:OOpm Sponsored by SEA 
Earth Week Mass at the Grotto 
-Fr.. T Hesburgh will be presiding -Rain Location-Pangborn Hall Chapel 

Sunday, April 19 
Sponsored by SEA
1:00pm-4:00pm 
Tree Planting with Living Earth Reforestation of South Bend 
-Come show your support for the environment by helping to plant 2000 evergreen trees in southern Saint Joseph County 
,.. 
-Sign up at the GreenFest on Saturday 

Wednesday, April 22 Earth Day!!! 
I
8: OOpm-11: OOpm Sponsored by SMC-SEAC 
I I 
I . I
Coffee House at Dalloways, SMC 
., 
-Come join in an Earth Day Celebration!!! -Open mike for Poetry and Music!!! 
' t ' : 



! : j I 
r ' t',I 
' 
l!. 
' 
' 
\ 
'I J' 
'j 
~ 1 
I ~ J
, 
i. ' 
n
,, 
II I 1 J I 
._, 
1: 
I. 
j 
I '' 
! ' 
• 
________,.._-,
• 

page 20 The Observer • BASEBALL . Thursday, April 16, 1998 

This set the table for sophomore right­fielder Jeff Felker, who sent the ball flying out of the park on a two-strike pitch. 
"I was looking for a good pitch to hit," the sophomore first baseman said after the game. "[Gassner] already had put two fastballs by me for strikes, so he had me in a hole and I was just looking to make 
contact. Then he threw one right in on me and I got a hold of it." 
Those two blasts, along with a shot from Brant Ust in the fifth inning that is probably still flying, drove Notre Dame's home run total for the year to 52. Ust. the Big East Player of the Week last week, leads the team with a .410 batting aver­age. During last night's game, he went 1­for-4 with two pop-ups and a ground out. 
Notre Dame head· coach Paul Mainieri used five pitehers, but junior Alex Shilliday (7-2. 3.16), who pitched to nine batters over two innings, got the -win. 
All five pitchers worked a steady game, allowing nine hil'i and only one run. That run came on a solo homer by Purdue des­ignated hitter William Bennett off sopho­more pitcher Tom O'Hagan. 
Mainieri had planned the "pitching by committee" approach as a way to keep his pitchers ready without overusing them. 
"We wanted these players to pitch, but we didn't want them to pitch so much that they wouldn't be ready for our con­ference games over the weekend," Mainieri said after the game. "Besides, when you change pitchers that often, the batters can't get used to one pitcher's 

By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
Sports Writer 
Last night may have been "Turn Back the Clock" night at the Frank Eck Baseball Stadium, but the Irish drove straight ahead with torrid hitting and a 
solid pitching efl'ort, winning their l 7th game in the last 18 by dispatching the Purdue Boilermakers 7-1. The Irish played to 1,012 fans who showed up to watch the Irish's annual "Turn Back the Clock" game. Frank Eck threw out the ceremoni<tl first pitch and players wore uniforms from the 1950s. Notre Dame (27-10, 8-0) wasted no time getting off the ground as leadoff hit­ter Allen Greene, a switch-hitting junior centerficlder, launched the first pitch from Purdue starter David Gassner deep over the fence for a solo home run. "Coach Mee has been working with me on my right-handed hitting because I don't usually hit from there," Greene said after the game. "It was just a question of 
incorporating into the game what we have been working on in batting prae­tice." 
In the third inning, the Irish batting continued to strike with Greene reaching on a blooper to third base that Steve Lorek charged and misplayed on the throw. Greene moved to third on a double from shortstop J.J. Brock. Brock played his 217th career game last night. moving him into fifth on the all-time Notre Dame list, only two games behind current Irish batting coach Cory Mee. 

Purdue University at University of Notre Dame STATISTICS 
PURDUE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

AB R H RBI AVG AB R H RBI AVG 
Walker 

4 0 2 0 .406 Greene 5 2 1 1 .340 Hallada 5 0 0 '.397 Brock 4 
2 0 .354 Tomsyck 3 0 0 .328 Felker 4 2 3 .310 Bennett 3 1 .306 wagner 4 0 .360 Rithstein 0 0 0 .308 Ust 
4 .412 Ramacher 4 0 0 0 .230 L~atherman 2 0 2 .357 Frei 2 0 2 
0 .306 Cooke 1 1 0 0 .229 Lorek 0 0 
.293 Porzel 3 0 0 .257 Sickler 4 0 0 .167 Frye 4 0 1 0 .258 

Knedlt 4 0 0 0 .294 
Shilliday .o 0 0 0 Udge 0 0 0 0 1.000 Naumann 0 0 0 0 

Heilman 0 0 0 0 

Photos by The Observer/Jeff Hsu 

style." 
This strategy worked with Notre Dame only giving up six walks, one extra-base hit and nailing five strikeouts, four of which came from junior righthander Brad Lidge. 
Although Purdue's five pitchers notched eight strikeouts and one walk, Gassners three earned runs, along with one each from Phil Davis and Jeremy Ballard, ruined the effort. 
Notre Dame has won seven straight games since last week's loss to Hall State. That loss counts as the only one the Irish have suffered since the first half of a dou­bleheader against Northwestern Illinois on March 26. 
"I think it's a result of lots of hard work," Greene said about the recent hot streak. "Our pitchers are confident and get the job done. It makes it easier for us to do our jobs when they do theirs." 
Mainieri echoed that sentiment. "Brian O'Connor, our pitching coach, really gets those bTUYS ready out in the bullpen," he said. 
"The real strength of this team lies in the assistant coaches," Mainieri contin­ued. "[Coaeh MeeJ works everyday with the hitters, a lot like Brian does with his staff. The result is that we are so pre­pared for the game and we can execute the plan to perfection." 
Notre Dame will travel to Pittsburgh this wt~ekend for a two-game conference series, hoping to stretch their unbeaten streak in the Big East. 

"These are huge games," Mainit~ri eom­mentcd. "We really have to go out and play well. We beat Pittsburgh earlier this year, so they will be tired up to play us and I am sure that they will be giving us their best shot. Also, we will play the games in Three Rivers Stadium, where the Pirates play, so that is a tremendous, exciting thing for our players." 
When a'ikcd about the upeoming series, Felker said that he was looking forward to it. "With the amount of rainout<> in the sehedulc, any game is really important," he said. "But it would be nice to keep the [unb•~aten eonfE~rence Istreak alive." 


Thursday, April 16, 1998 
The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
prevail" said Delaney. "There side and rallied back to tic the 
were a lot of hard fouls, but no score at 21, b1~fore closing out
Bookstore 
hard feelings." their opponent 23-21. continued from page 24 In one of the more exciting "We played well early on, but 
games of the day, 4 Dicks, One then we just died out," said Tim Schuekenbroek was a force in Jane and No Spot outlasted Kistner. "They played solid the middle and carried The 
Fcinian Brotherhood 23-21. defense and w1~re able to come­Deuce Droppers to a 22-20 vic­Both teams started off slow, but back from a big deficit. They just tory. Feinian Brotherhood eventually played well at the right time," 
"Both teams really put it out jumpPd out to a 17-8 IBad. 4 The first round will eome to a on the eourt, but there was no Dicks. One Jane and No Spot dose on Friday when the round doubt in my mind that wn would then caught fire from the out-of 256 gets underway. 

The Notre Dame Law School Natural Law Institute presents 
The 1998 Natural Law Lecture 
Religion and Practical Reason
: .... 
. ~. -~"-·. 
~-' 
·' 

__:Joseph Boyle 
Principal at St. Michael's College, 
University of Toronto 
i. 
,_ 
Thursday, April 16, 1998 
/• ' \. 
r~"':" .-. --"'··­
4 p.m.
....... . -.­~ 

Notre Dame Law School .. 
Courtroom
•. .­


• 


SOPHOMORE LITERARY FESTIVAL 


~~? 
Get your application outside the 
APPLICATIONS DUE
SUB office 
FRIDAY, APRIL 17 


First Round Results 


The Deuce Droppers def. Chris Farley Farewell Tour La Locos def. Carroll Piglets Lebo's Legion: Our Boy's Wicked Smart def. Hoosier Daddy 4 Dicks, One Jane &No Spot def. Feinina Brotherhood So Solid def. Charter All-Star Traveling Squad Just Add Stank def. My Knee Hurts ·Cleveland Steamers def. Got Slapped Danza Boys Team 529 def. Chuckles White House Interns def. 2D Dawgs The Fighting Antelopes def. Midi Junkies Yo Mama def. Wojo .•. def. Ain't No Thing but a
_•• Tortfeasors lief.. SCUDS •: 
·~ .-..... . .. tltet'Salvation Arm,ydef,..5 
Pi Hole PU$;t;f,)ther Guys that SUnk ·del · '•"• Team 97 detfh~ _ ...·WTWB Ill: Renewed Vigor 
o~li-~ICTta··.·. 486 .... ' 
""were o· 
·:1;:? 
• Te 499 





THE WEEKEND TO END ALL WEEKENDS 
Thursday, April 16 All ~haws start 10:30 
The music you love to hear 

f Gravity Hill 
l:l] \Junky r1e~t!J 
Friday, April 17 


OJ fOil 
l 
WAlKlAMA 

U. of IBib:iS ~ The essence of pimp 
C:.J 
Skaturday, April lS 



For information or questions, call Jim Bilek at 4-1744 
• 

$1 off all covers before 11 :30 with this ad 


page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, April 16, 1998 
• SAINT MARY'S SOFTBAll 
Slumping Belles nee_d to pick up wins at home 
i.l\ 
~ 
~ 
\ 
., 
~~ ~~ 
~~ 
I -I 
I \ I \ ~ 
i \'
ih 
I 
I I 
ll 
I 
I~ 
lj
I 
li I I 
I 
j\,, ( 
I! 
ii 
'1) 
}J 
i " 
r
J
I 
I I 
H 
I 
I 
H 
If F ,,
il;( 
r 
! ,, 
. 
"-!~ 
By MOLLY McVOY 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's was looking to breeze into the final weeks of their season with easy wins over Alma and Calvin, but these opposing teams had other ideas. 
Saint Mary's dropped both games to Alma on Saturday and Calvin took home both wins on Tuesday. 
The Belles' record is now 15-12. At one time, the Belles had a record of 15­6, but have been in a slump and lost six 
Streak 
continued from page 24 
the team offensively. 
The clash with the Bulldogs will also mark the start of a six­game home stand for the Irish, their longest of the season. 
The team will play eleven of their final thirteen games at home before beginning the Big East Championships in the first week of May, also held at Ivy Field. 
For now, however, the first game of the doubleheader between the Irish and the Bulldogs is set to take place this afternoon at 4 p.m. at Ivy Field. 
Women's Softball 
Schedule 

:"April16 April18 AprU19 April23 ·'i\pril25 April26 April28 

LASALLE· BOOKSTORE 
Your source for the best in theological 
and philosophical books-we can special order any book you need! 
Spring Reading Sale! 

THE lASALLE BOOKSTORE • 234-0003 
237 N. Michigan St. (at LaSalle), downtown 
South Bend. Open 10-5, Monday-Friday. 
Always discounts for NDISMC faculty & students! 
A SPECIAL INVITATION 
Announces the Following Introductory Offers of... 
r--------, r--------, i ___$_4_9_--i r--------,
\'l'\
: JOo/coff : 
I .., --I 
I I I I : $35 : 
: Aveda : : Cut & : : Co>lor. Cllt ,\ : 1 I Full Set of I 1
I I I I I I
I '1\'IL' I 
: Retail : : St\ k : I -I : 1\iaib :
L ___ _:____ J I Ow: Prnl:c~:-.
L--------J L--------.J1 L--------J 
•Please call to schedule you appointment• 
Thh offer good w11h th~ l•>lln" 111~ ,(\ l1'" only:Ko\"1111. Tenna. Janelle. Sieph<mic r--...:::=-:;:-;-;;==-=~-----.
•.NEW CLIENTS ONLY• 
Please usl!' th~ Spel1al Sa\ln~' tn\ttation and gettn !-now u-;. 
Ad~ be presented to receptionist 
You"ll he pkased \lllh th<' qu;dit~ and 'eni<.:e "'<'provide. and \'0: 
bt(ofi. 'lerVice• are pecfonned 
\\Ill do our hc,r to on.:rit n11u ,·,Htfodeno.:c and patronage. 
'(certain r~strictions apply) 
\h• hoflc.' to .\('(' rott .,oou. Not vahd lor sporal perms Long cr t1nted haor add S 10 Nu other d1scounts apply Open some even1ngs Atria Salon reserves lhe nght to refuse serv•ce to an~ Cl•ent whose hall cond1t10n 1S unsUJtable Exp11es May 31 1998 
ATRIA SALON 1357 N Ironwood Drove •South Bend, IN 46615 •Tel 219·289-5080 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~­
BUTLER 
CONNECTICUT'':~­
ST. JOHN'S 
''''-"'»"''''''"'«:­

at Northwestern : VILLANOVA VILLANOVA INDIANA STATE 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 

Wotnen•s Running Club -· Meet at 4:30 p.m. eafh}day in front of the Sorin statue and hene­fiffrom a good workout and running compan­ions. All female runners are wek6ine. Call Rene at x2849 orAshley at x121l with ques­
1 tions. We are curr~ntly looking for a faculty advisor. 
Golf Scramble -Stanford Hall will be spon­soring a nine-'hole golfscramble on April 18 fbr teams of four. Fee is $40 per group. For more information call Gene at 4-2049. 
ND Tai Chi/Kung Fu Club -meets every Sunday at the Rockne Memorial. 10 a.m. to noon in room 219. Please call Teo at4-3013 or email cteodoro@nd.edu. 
Weekend Racquetball Tournament ­Offered April 17~ 18 at the Joyce Center. Matches will begin~t. 5:50p.m. on' Friday and 
_.1 o.. a·~·. on Saturday.The .entrx.fee i~ $8. Pa:fti¢ipants need to registerincB.dvance at RecSports. Th~ deadline for registering is today at 6 p.m. 
Drop-In Volleyball -RecSports will be sponsoring it every Wednesday and Friday from 8-11 p.m. in the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. 
Drop..Jn Badminton -· RecSports will be sponsoring every Friday from 7-JO p.m. in the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center for the rest of 
the semester. · · ··•""*" 

Women's Bookstore Basketball-· Captains must pickup the packets at the LaFortune info desk. Games start Monday. · 
in a row. 

"Its not that we haven't been playing well. We've just fallen short. We're going to try to get it together and win the rest of our games," explained fresh­man pitcher Anne Senger. 
"We just fell into a slump. Everybody kind of slumped' at the same time. We just need to pull it together and start over, like its a new season," said Tricia Klockner of the Belles recent troubles. 
They hope to do just what Klockner and Senger suggested today and turn it around in a very important home con-
r--------, 
:  $60  :  
I  I  
1 I  Hilitc~  L'(  1 I  

:Cut & St\k: 
L--------.l 

ference game against Kalamazoo. Liz Shevik and Senger will pitch in the doubleheader, hoping to win both games and carry that momentum into the 12 games remaining in their sea­son. ­
The Belles have to win these games in order to have a good fmough record in the MIAA to be ablr to Pnter the con­ference at the end of tht> season. 
Shevik agrees that today is a must win situation. "We're going through a rough patch but we're trying not to get down. The games today are crucial 

Attention ND/SMC/HCC Freshmen!! You are invited to celebrate the end of your first year of college on Friday, April 17 from 7-9 pm at Saint Mary's College Haggar student center! 
Featuring Music By T#Je Dunn Brothers & Letter 8! Free Food, Fun, Good Music! 

1Jreseot1og 



·"lslam·Animism and ChristianiiV in East Africa" 
Thursday, April 16, 1998 8:00pm O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Room 119 
~rr~rsHmrnrs ro roLLow 
Sponsored by: Go-Go, GSU, and the Government Department 



--------------------------------------------------···· -----··-·--------··--·---·-'-------·· 
because they are a conferences games. We need the wins, both for the confer­ence record and mentally." 
Today may be the deciding games in the Belles' postseason hopes, and the team knows it. Not only have they said they need to move past the recent diffi­culties, they need all the support from their fans that they can get. 
Shevik could not agree more. 
"We're hoping for a huge crowd, because they make a difference and we really appreciate the fans support," she said. 
! 
I 
! 
I 
! I 
I 
~ 
) 
I 
I 
I 
~ 
} 
~ 
} 
I 
j 
r 
f I 
'! 
I 
J 
I 
i 
: 
~ \ 
,_ 
~ 
l{
,) 
\~ 
I ) I ~ 
l ! 
)} 
~ 
~~ 
!I 
~ 
~ ~ 
) 
> 
} 
~ 
~ 
1 
~ 
t 
·(.IJ 
l) 
'1 
~ ~~ 
-~ 
I } 'i 
! ' I I 
! J,.\ .,I ~ '' 
;t ' 
·' } /
I I I:
I ' ,, 
I I I· 
J} {I ( 'J 
I I 
:r 
l I '! 
I 
'I 'j 
: < 
> I 
I I I 
. 
. 'I 
-

Thursday, April 16, 1998 
The Observer • TODAY page 23 
~~-~-~-­

MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE KELLI FOX 
D' D Yov SE£ IHE LAS I ScHDL.ASII C? 
YEAH, I CAN'/ BELIEV£ lttEY bIt> I HAT! 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
[mA~ HAS lRtEC> TO 
POMfSTICATE 
DILBERT 
-(HEY ftUDE A f'1oCkERY oF OUR C~/C (if!_E~/'I~tlLUS~.~--:----1 Wo R.Sr 0 ~ ALL. 1-Hef:£ HACKS 
DJDNI EYEN MA I< E If fumJY. 
BUT CAVEr>06 CA~r ~~V~ B'tl 'THEIR ove.RSeARtt\l~ RULES A~t> L.AWS I 
u 
c
ALICE I5 GOING TO 
!
e>E. MIFFED THI\T 
•
u 
:;; 
...&::
SHE'~ TOO LATE FOR 
en 
THE GOOO STUFF. 
! 
.;! 

t_:::.-__...__...__--.... --~ 
MIKE PETERS 
!SONE~OUS~ BATHA~AR. "00 M~lb ASK FOR? 
SCOTT ADAMS 
'<OU IT WA.5N'T GOT EASY. HE'D HIS 1\LR.EAO-,' MA.DE PA-NTS? IT TO THE 005. 


52 Short trip 56 Compel 58 Extra-base hit 62 Contract signer 63 Official • 
language of Pakistan 64 Vogue rival 65 Head honcho 66 Tournament passes 67 Fine pajama material 
DOWN 
1 Official proceedings 2Wedding exchange 3 The Red 4 45's and 78's 5 Sandwich order 6--Bravo 7 Slippery one &Garb 
Puzzle by Eileen Lexau 
9Get 

Aries: Everything becomes step forward and claim what ­an adventure when romance is yours. Friendly competi­is in the air. Use your excess tion creates unity rather energy for something more than division. than imagination and antici­Scorpio: This is not the pation. time to ask for a favor. Your 
Taurus: If you have a sin­state of need makes you far gle plan today, it should be too vulnerable for risky to drop all other plans. Your exposure. Keep a low profile life is about to be complicat­to better hide the flaws in ed by the unexpected. Avoid your armor. expensive situations for the Sagittarius: Try not to next few days. presume too much today. 
Gemini: Bluffers beware Others have their own rea­-there is someone out sons, and you are in no posi­there who can see right tion to judge them. Immerse through you. Your knowl­yourself in sensory experi­edge is impressive enough ences, and do not look too without stretching the far below the surface. boundaries. Friendly rivalry Capricorn: Self-righteous adds a little spice. people disturb the harmony 
Cancer: Luxury presents a of your life. Why bother try­bright spot in a normally ing to change someone's austere lifestyle. It doesn't mind when he will not even take much to make you listen? The surrounding cir­happy today. cumstances are far more 
Leo: You have more ener­persuasive than you can be. gy than some people can Aquarius: The Golden stand. Those with an Rule swings both ways. appetite for intensity find Instant karma is alive and you an absolute joy to be well in your neighborhood. around. Be fair in your dealings with 
Virgo: You have a low tol­others. If someone treats erance for distraction. If you you badly today, it could want to stay focused on the very well be your own fault. issue at hand, you may have Pisces: Suddenly. and to remove yourself from the much to your surprise, you company of others. are super organized and far 
Libra: You are a ripe can­ahead of schedule. Try not didate for any leadership to be distracted by your position. Do not be afraid to amazement. 
Democratization and Institutional Change: The 
1993 Mexican Central Bank Reform. Delia Boylan 
presents a lecture today at4:15 p.m. in room C·103 of 
the Hesburgh Center. 

Graduate School Workshop is designed for 
Juniors (and some seniors) interested in Graduate SclJ,qpt .Topicst~ be di.~~17ssed include; .ldf}~!ifying an ·appr9prlate coU,rse ()~ ~~ggy... securing letters of rec~ ommendation, ·'Writing ap: ~ffective letter of intent, and locating funding sources. Speakers include Dr. Terry Akai•. associate dean of the office of Graduate Admission and Dr. Russ~ll Kitchner, assistant director for Graduate Student Career Services. The workshop will be held Thursday, April 16 from 6 • 7:30p.m. in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune. The event is sponsored by the Graduate School and the Office of Career and Placement Services. 
• 


HEH HE.H. ED I5 BARELY OUT 1'14E. DOOR. AND I GOT HIS OLO 
COMPUTER. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS t State firmly 5 Born's partner 9 Famous rib donor t3 Heart t4 Stead t5 Teacake t6 Like Hawthorne's "Tales" ta Peer 19 "My Fair Lady" scene 20 Second-stringer 22 Five-to-one, e.g. 26 St. Teresa of 
28 Some stock buys 
30 Galley type appropriate for this puzzle? 
32 Speaker's place 33 "Darn!" 35 Pretend 36 AddI. telephone 
off a main line 37 Hamlet 39 Rita Hayworth spouse-­
Khan 40 Page of music 42 Speak to the 
hard-of­hearing? 43 Dog biter 44 Has contempt for 46 Alternative to Nikes 48 Valued violin 49 Publish lies about 50 Queen-­lace 
E 
0 
i u 
f! 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~~~~:-i to Gobbledygook 
~~=-r-+"'-i 11 Santa -­(Pacific wind) 
12 Sportscaster!-=+~~ Allen 
15 Sycophantic t7 And more .;..;..+~~~ 21 It'll take you for a ride 23 Spelling of "Beverly Hills 90210" ~-=-+-==-' 24 "Paradise of exiles": Shelley ..:....f.~~~ 25 Workers in stables 
27 Soap plants 28 Mexican state 
29"" 
31 One-named Irish singer 32 Assts. 340regon's capital 37 Ernest or Julio Gallo 38 Elation 41 Hypnotic states 43 Searches for provisions 
45 "Sprechen -­Deutsch?" 47 Lower California, familiarly 51 Ticket remainder 53 Good fruit with a bad name? 

54 Dickens girl 55 Quite a trip 56 Stretch the truth 57 Warbler Yoko 59 Kind of humor 60 Lyric poem 61 School 
transportation 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
•MENU 

Notte Dame North
South ·.·.··•···· 

Budapest Vegetable ..·•······ Oven· Fried Chicken 
;·;;.::::iiWi.Soup .... ;w;.. ;!;l:t;:~;·. · Callfornia Ble".ifd.. "· 
Sauteed Chicken Breast Vegetables' 
BBQ·Beef Sandwich Chicken Tetrazzini 
Spanish Vegetable Chili Frito 
Medley 

.. 

·ning HaJJs 
-
~.~ .-,. ·-~ -. 
.~ ."":: ·.:: . .., 


SPORTS 
page 24 Thursday, April 16, 1998 
• SOFTBALL 

Irish streak their way to the top 
Team looks to up four game streak with home wins us. Butler 
By BILL HART 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Though the Notre Dame softball team has been red hot this week, it puts a four-game win streak on the line todaya home stand never hurt anyone. This afternoon, the Irish will put that theory to the test as they put a four-game winning streak on the line with a doubleheader at Ivy Field against the Butler 


three-hit shutout to
Bulldogs. 

improve her record to
Ever since the two 
Softball Standings
teams first clashed in 1989, the history between Butler and 
Big East
Notre Dame has been, if anything, in favor of 
NORTH W L T PCT. 
the latter. In the nine years of matches 
Boston College 7 1 1 .833 between them. the Irish 
Connecticut 5 4 0 .556 
have a whopping 20-2 
St. John's 5 5 0 .500
record against the Bulldogs. and have not 
Providence 2 7 1 .250 lost to them since 1992, when both teams pIaye d i n t h e 
SOUTH 
Midwestern Collegiate 
Villanova 
6 4 0 .667 
Conference. 
Notre Dame 6 4 0 .667
This year, the Bulldog softball squad is the Rutgers 7 4 0 .636 talk of the MCC, having 
Seton Hall 0 11 0 .000 
gone 7-1 to start off 
conference play. Despite having a misleading 16-16-1 record head­ing into Ivy Field. the Bulldogs have seven of their last eight games, and nine of their past eleven. 
The Fighting Irish softball team has gone on a tear over the holidays, having swept four games and moving into a first-place tie with Villanova for the Big East South Division. Going in to today's matchup with the Bulldogs, the Irish stand at 21-18 on the season and 6-3 in confer­ence play. 
After sweeping Seton Hall in a rain-delayed doubleheader, the Irish traveled to Bloomington to sweep a pair from intrastate rival Indiana. In 

the first game, the visitors quickly got on the board as senior Jenn Giampaolo led ofT the game with a walk. went to second on a sacrifice bunt, advanced to third on an error and was singled home by Sarah Mathison. In the second inning, freshman Melanie Alkire hit her second home run of the season over the left centerfield fence to incn•ase the lead to 2-0, which eventually turned out to be the final score. freshman jennifer Sharron pitched the 


. , . . . . The Observer/John Daily 
Jun1or Amy Laboe shit 1n the fourth 1nn1ng of the second game against Indiana drove home Lisa Tully. 
f' 
9-6 on the season. In the nightcap, Alkire took to the mound and 
Overall 

pitched five shutout innings as the Irish
W L T PCT. 

swept the series with a 25 6 1. .797 
9-3 victory. Notre Dame again got on the
19 14 .574 

board quickly, taking a
12 17 .417 

5-0 lead in the first two 14 19 2 .429 
innings and never look­ing back. They later increased their lead to 7-0 when sophomore Lisa Tully singled and
26 12 0 .684 

Giampaolo doubled to 
21 18 0 .538 

lead off the fourth 14 11 0 .560 
inning. Junior Amy Laboe then drove home
12 18 .403 

Tully, and Alkire sin­
T!i! 

gled to score home Giampaolo. 
Giampaolo. along with freshman Daniclle Klayman. recently earned conference player of the week honors following a pair of strong perfor­mances in a sweep of Seton Hall over Easter Break. Giampaolo was named Big East player of the week after hitting 4-7 with a double and two triples against the Pirates, while Klayman earned Big East rookie of the week honors after also bat­ting 4-7, with a triple, three runs scored and two RBI. Currently, her .370 batting average leads 
see STREAK I page 22 
• BooKSTORE BASKETBALL XXVII 
First round cooks up wins and surprises 
The Observer/Jeff Hsu 

With one last chance to go nuts at this year's tournament, Dan Strobel and his team, Insane Chances, roast marshmallows. 


By BRIAN KESSLER Assiscam Spans Editor 

When all the dust settled, or in this case. after the mustard. ketchup, eggs and marshmel­lows settled on the court, Bookstore Basketball complet­ed another successful day of action. 
Insane Chances put on one of the most entertaining and messy performances of the tournament. Despite having their fans throw all types of condiments on the court, Insane Chances had no chance of upstaging their opponents in yesterday's contest against Dos Ghandis. 
Trailing 11-7 at the half, Insane Chances wasn't pleased with coach Chester, so thev decided to have a bonl'ire a"t half court and sot their stufl'od animal coach ablaze. 
"lie was calling to two-thret~ zones when thoy were pretty good outside shooters, so we decided to have a bonflre and toast some marshmellows," said Kerry Cavanaugh of Insane Chances. 
The commissioners didn't take too kindly to wate\r bal­loons being thrown on the court or to the rest of" their antics. 
"We're a crowd participation tBam," Kerry C'.avanaugI1. "We have some good bailers on the team and we f'eel we should have been ranked. But I guess when they don't factor in that Hyan Murray was HecSports bowling champ. we didn't have a chance." 
In other action, Notre Dame basketball player Nick Wills led 1Oth -seeded So Solid into action against Charter All-Star Traveling Squad. So Solid, the winners of the Morrissey Tune­Up Tournament. used fast breaks and easy baskets to make quick work of their oppo­nents. defeating them 21-2. Surprisingly. Andy Sexton and A.J. Schiavone 
Wills 
provided most of the seoring in the vkto­ry. 
"We wen~ trying to win big," said \Vilis, whose team lived up to its ranking. "We got some points ofT our def"pnse and had about 13 points from nither short shots or layups. If we continue to do a lot of the same things and put pressure on the opposing tPams, I think W(~·u be in good shape." 
llead commissioner Dan Delarwy and f~xccutive comrnis­sioru~r Mark I Iuffman got their chance to battle on the court, as Dtdaney's Tlw Deuce Droppers: \Ve'll Drop One on Your llt~ad squan~d off against lluffman 's Chris Farley Farewell Tour. After leading 11-9 at the half, The Deuce Droppers found tlwrnselves one point avvay from elimination as they trailed 20-19. But Delancy's team refused to be outdone as they "dropped" three unanswered points and bid "farewell" to tlH~ Chris Farley Tour. Mike 
see BOOKSTORE I page 21 


f' 
'•. 
at Pittsburgh (DH)~: Saturday 
•" at Michigan 
Today, 2 p.m. 
! a; •Irish run away with 7-1 win over 
vs. Butler Track
'flw 
Today, 4 p.m. 

at Mr. SAC Invitational, ~ Purdue Walnut, Calif. 
vs. Massachusetts • ·-CIJ see page 20 

Friday-Sunday 
wf 
~ Sunday, 1 p.m. at Connecticut Men's Golf at Ohio State • Belles look to rebound 

Friday, 3 p.m. Saturday-Sunday
• -::: 


