Irish women • The Notre Dame 
• Winners of the election 
women stormed past 
committee's raffle.
thunder past St. John's in a 32-point 

p. 7 • Accent's guide to Valentine's Day gifts 
victory. p. 24
Red Storm 
for that special someone. p. 12 

Friday, February 13, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No. 91 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• ElECTIONS '98 

Students ·elect Cesaro/Selak to top positions 
By HEATHER MACKENZIE 
Associate News Editor 
After winning 55 percent of votes in the run-off election yesterday, Peter Cesaro and Andrea Selak will lead student government as student body president and vice president for the 1998-99 school year. 
The Cesaro/Selak ticket cap­tured 2,298 votes, while the Brandon Williams/Julie Reising ticket received 1792 votes, or 43 percent of the total. 
"My mom started crying on 
the phone," Selak said. "This is such an incredible feeling." 
After a week of campaigning, both Cesaro and Selak admit to being exhausted, but Cesaro said that "the experience was worth it. I am so ready to rush into this." 
"I would like to get a little sleep first," Selak added. 
Cesaro and Selak will work with the Matt Griffin!Erek Nass administration until they offi­cially take over the office. 
"I wish them luck," Griffin said of Cesaro and Selak. "All the candidates who ran were very competent, and I wish them luck. I look forward to working with Pete and Andrea during the transition." 
During the first elections, the Cesaro/Selak ticket had a signif­icant lead, capturing 30 percent of the votes divided among the nine tickets. 
In this election, however, the Williams/Reising ticket chal­lenged the Cesaro/Selak ticket by winning a large margin of 
see ELECTIONS I page 8 


Touching Lives 
Notre Dame's spirit of volunteerism is alive and well at the Chapin Street Health Center 
By ANNE HOSINSKI News Writer 
On the crime-ridden corner of Chapin St. and Western Ave. in downtown South Bend lies the Chapin Street Health Center. a true ray of hope in the dire reality of poverty and crime in the neighborhood. 
Founded in 1986, the Chapin Street Health Center is a subsidiary of St. Joseph Hospital in South Bend. The clinic serves more than 2,000 citizens of St. Joseph and Marshall counties. It was created in response to the critical need for affordable health care for people unlikely to be eligible for government assistance and insumnce. 
"We are no Medicaid, no Medicare, no insurance," remarked Michelle Peters, volun­teer director of the clinic. "We are basically taking care of those who fall through the cracks and have no other options." 
"It is easy to classify them [the clientele] as 
see CLINIC I page 6 

N
otre Dame and Saint Mary's students make a difference at the Chapin Street Health Center by reaching out to patients. The center has only four full-time employees, filling out the rest of its staff with volunteers: physicians, nurses, retired individuals, and students. 
Left, a student works on charts. Above, a volunteer checks a patient's pulse. 
The ObseiVer/ Kevin Dalum 




New RecSports center opens on Valentine's Day 
By KRISTI KUTSCH Assistant News Editor 
Fitness has gained popularity on college campuses everywhere, but at Notre Dame, recreational space is limited. 
Physical education classes are taught at the Rockne Memorial and varsity athletes con­sta·ntly practice in the Loftus Sports Center and the Joyce Center. But tomorrow, a new recreational facility will open, providing fit­ness-conscious students with more space in which to exercise. 
The $8.8 million Rolfs Sports Recreation Center is designed for students. It offers the student a place he or she can exercise any time of the day, without the interferences of varsity practices, RecSports inter-hall compe­titions or physical education classes. 
THE ORIGIN 

In the early 1990s, President Edward Malloy issued a report for the University called the Colloquy for the Year 2000. This commission, which produced the report, analyzed all aspects of Notre Dame, including student life, faculty and financing. A part of the Colloquy presented the need for additional indoor recreational space. 
"Once the recreational space was recom­mended, it became a possibility. We then began looking for possible financial support­ers," said Sally Derengoski, director of RecServices and director of the Rolfs Sports Center. 
Financial support came in the form of a $5 million donation from Notre Dame alumni Thomas and Robert Rolfs. This is their second major donation to the University for athletic purposes; the first was the Rolfs Aquatic Center, completed in 1985. 
After financial support was secured, the University focused its efforts on constructing a recreational facility that would meet students' needs. 
"The needs really presented themselves," Derengoski said. "We recognized the limited space available at the Rock and the JACC, and went from there." 
In addition, the Campus Life Council con­ducted a student survey as to what should be included in the Rolfs Sports Center, and the RecSports office accepted suggestions con­cerning the types of fitness equipment to pur­chase. 
see ROLFS I page 5 



page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 


TheM-Word 
Abovn all things, I David Freddoso wanted to avoid reading Senior StaffWriter 
any sappy columns ________ 
about Valentine's Day, 
and so I had already signed up tu write this 
Inside Column by mid-January. 
On the other hand, no one hates cynicism 
as much as I do, so I ean't just complain 
about sappiness. Nor do I want to simply 
pass over such a noted holiday without 
notice. 
I definitely don't want to take up the popu­
lar theme of the "real" historical signifi­
cance of Valentine's Day (I'm not a history 
major.) 
Instead I thought I'd write about some­
thing that should concern almost everyone 
here at Notre Dame: Marriage. 
Now don't stop reading this just because 
you saw the word. It's about time you face 
up to it, pal. Your four years at Notre Dame 
are your best opportunity and perhaps your 
only opportunity to find a wife (Sorry, my 
male background dictates that I can really 
only write for the gentlemen). 
There are a thousand other methods peo­
ple use to avoid the M-word. "I'm too 
young," they might say. They'll probably still 
be saying that when they're too old, and 
that's not too far away. 
Perhaps you just need to grow up a bit 
faster, or as we say, mature. 
People also complain about Notre Dame 
not being "diverse" enough. That's because 
they don't know what diversity is. At Notre 
Dame, there are lots and Jots of really smart 
people from all over the country, with all 
kinds of "diverse" interests. What more 
could you want? 
You won't find a wife in the business 
world when you graduate. There is no diver­
sity there, everyone there is the same, and 
relationships in the office never work, as 
they say. So what will you do then? Will you 
go to a singles bar to lind your wife? Would 
you want to spend the rest of your life, and 
to have your children, with someone who 
hangs around one of those places? How long 
do you think that would last? 
You roally should lind her here. And you 
should propose to her by the end of your 
senior year. 
Then again, you can't marry just anyone. 
You want to find one of the good ones. 
Marriage is a saerament, as St. Paul writes. 
Marriage is indisoluble, for as Christ himself 
says, "What God has joined, let no man tear 
asunder." 
Marriage is a vocation, a call from God. 
Not only that. but it is a really tough voca­
tion. Put yourself in your parents' shoes: Do 
you think that it was easy for them to stay 
up late with you when you cried as a baby? 
To change your diapers? And then to put up 
with even more of your attitude as you grew 
up and went through adolescence, rebelling 
against their every command? And even 
today, do you give them any respect for all 
their trouble? (When is the last time you 
wrote your father?) 
llow can you live up to such a high calling 
if you still can't even keep your own dorm 
room clean? llow can you do something that 
requires this much self-giving if you still 
have nudie posters hanging on your walls? 
How can you do something that requires so 
much of your time if you still waste so much 
of that time watching television and playing 
Nintendo'? 
Take down your posters, ship your televi­
sion home, and grow up. You have only a 
few years to make yourself marriagable, so 
get a life and lind a girl who has one, too. 
Now that wasn't sappy, was it? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• ToDAY's STAFF  
News  Accent  
Laura Petelle  Joey Crawford  
Tim Logan  Graphics  
Tom Enright  Tom Roland  
Sports  Production  
Sarah Dylag  Mark DeBoy  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Colleen Gaughen  Anthony Shaker  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 

---------------~ 
The Observer • INSIDE Friday, February 13, 19~R 


utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Student Council VP arrested in finance scandal 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. 

Following his arrest Monday for allegedly attempting to obtain "money by false pretenses" in con­nection with a September Student Council retreat at the Omni Hotel, Dan Soschin, Council vice president for administration, maintains full support from many Council mem­bers, who said they believe his actions were unintentional. 
The supposed adjustments on the 


retreat bill in question totaled more than $3,600, according to a University Police press release. 
However, Council members said Soschin did not have any wrongful intent. 
"All charges are based upon an assumption of intent," Council Executive Vice President Howard A. Foard III said. 
The charges involve the mishan­dling of Student Activity Fee monies. 
The allegations "are in regard to an altering of the bill and a discrep­ancy between SAF and non-SAF accounts," Council President Sajeena Geevarghese said. As reim­bursements are required throughout the year, a receipt is presented to either the Council's chief financial officer or the vice president for administration, one of whom certi­fies the expense as fundable in accordance with Council and Board of Visitors guidelines. A reimburse­ment voucher is filled out and, if approved, is sent to Hancher, who then writes a check. 
In the event of a discrepancy, Council officials typically discuss the situation with Hancher. 
In this case, however, Ilancher did not consult Foard before the allega­tions were made, Foard said. 
There was a "missing link, and when there was a question we were not contacted and the wheels started turning," he said. 
Foard said Council members sup­port Soschin and see the need for the public to take a step back and look at the overall situation and wait for the truth to come out. 
"I firmly believe that Dan didn't do anything intentionally," College Hep. Emmanuel West said. 
University Police offieials charged Sosehin with a Class IV felony. 

• UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA 
Men allege assault by wrestler 

MINNEAPOLIS, Minn. 
At least one Gophers wrestler is under investigation for an assault that allegedly occurred in the early morning on Jan. 25. Associate athletic director Jeff Schemmel and wrestling eoach J Hobinson confirmed that at least one Gophers wrestler was involved. Nobody on the team has been charged at this point. "We have tried to cooperate with police as much as we can, and that's still going on," Schemmel said. According to a police report, Kevin Fix and Stuart Schirmer were approached by a group of seven or eight males outside a house in Dinkytown. A verbal confrontation turned into an assault, and both victims sus­tained substantial injuries to their faces. The men's athlet­ics department has not taken any action against the wrestler or wrestlers alleged to be involved in the inci­dent. Schemmel said that the department will let the police handle the case until further facts are known. 
• UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA -DAVIS Campus mourns student death 
DAVIS, Calif. 
Friends and family are mourning the death of UC Davis first-year student Jessica Carney, who was killed in a four-car traffic accident Sunday. Carney, 18, was travel­ing with her boyfriend Shane Karres, 19 , on a rain­slicked highway. She was returning to school after a weekend visit home when the accident occurred. An honors graduate of Santa Hosa High School in 1997, Carney was a Regents Scholar majoring in the biological sciences. Carney's roommate, Sarah Schwartz, said she and Carney beeame close almost immediately last fall, and is greatly affected by her loss. "Even though I only met her four months ago, I cannot imagine my life with­out her," Schwartz said. "Ever since I've been here in Davis, she's been here with me. I cannot imagine Davis without her." Schwartz further said it was Carney's vibrant personality that made her a great person to spend time with. 
• UNIVERSITY OF MONTANA 
One dead, one injured in accident 
MISSOULA. Mont. 

Keith Dukes was working on scaffolding 40 feet above 
the ground in the University Theatre Tuesday when it 
collapsed, killing him and injuring a co-worker. UM 
Police Sgt. Charles Gatewood said the accident took 
place between 9:50a.m. and 10:10 a.m. Dukes was 
declared dead at 10:30 a.m. Dukes, 38, of St. Ignatius, 
and fellow Sirius Construction worker Jeff Ipsen, 45, of 
Missoula, had been on the scall'olding putting in six steel 
!-beams for a new rigging system in the theater. A third 
worker, who was on the ground, saw the accident and 
ran to call 911. An ambulance took both men to St. 
Patrick Hospital while paramedics tried to resuscitate 
Dukes. Ipsen was in surgery throughout the day for 
injuries to his pelvis, arm and head. But hospital night 
supervisor Gerry Unbehend said Ipsen will be in the 
intensive care unit by morning. 
• JAMES MADISON UNIVERSITY JMU suspends controversial doctor 
HAHHJSONBUHG, Va. 

A local psychiatrist's status with the university is uncer­
tain following the indefinite suspension of his medieal 
license last week for prescribing masturbation therapy in 
seven cases from 1969 to 1988. Dr. Carl Hobert 
Showalter, who sometimes treats James Madison students 
referred to him by the school'sCounscling Centnr, faces 
suspension of his medical licensn for what the Virginia 
Board of Medicine calls "improper and unethical conduct" 
involving his private practice in Harrisonburg. Showalter, 
JMU's psychiatrist since 1969, prescribed masturbation 
therapy, which the Virginia Medical Board said is "not a 
recognized psychiatric treatment modality." Showalter 
also runs a private practice in Harrisonburg, near the uni­
versity. Donna Harper, University Health Centnr director, 
said she is not aware of any JMU students involved in the 
allegations, but Showalter's status with the university is 
unclear 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 


The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Friday, Feb. 13.
5 Day South Bend 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day.

AccuWeather• forecast 
\ H
(-·--".:,.:.,.,•.•..,..,..,..•.._.... ,..••••..1. 
L I 

Friday ~ 41 ''28 Saturday ~ 43 1029; Sunday ~ 45 ~25 
FRONTS: 
............... ....a.....a... .............. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1998 AccuWeather, Inc. 

Pressure 
H L B ISSl ITil 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY VIa Assoclalltd Press 
Atlanta  52  36  Dallas  62  45  Phoenix  68  50  
Billings  44  25  Denver  52  22  Scranton  40  16  
Boston  44  18  Des Moines  43  25  Seattle  52  44  
Buffalo  31  13  Miami  78  64  Toledo  37  24  
Charlotte  52  31  Omaha  46  24  Trenton  47  26  

-


Friday, February 13, 1998 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

I 
• 


IT'S THAT TIME OF YEAR AGAIN! 
336 GRACE HALL OR AT THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 202 BROWNSON HALL 
• 

Ca111pus Ministryr Events 


OFFICE OF CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hesburgh Library 
631-71l00 
112 Badin Hall 631-5242 Basilica Offices 
631-8463 
Web site: 
www.nd.edu,/-ministryI 
February 12 -February 24 · 
Sign-up: 

Freshmen Retreat #16 (Feb. 27-28) for residents of Alumni, Breen-Phillips, Howard, Keough, Keenan, Lyons, McGlinn, Pasquerilla West and Sorin. Please see your rector or stop by Campus Ministry, 103 Hesburgh Library. 
Friday, February 13, 9:30-11:30 pm. 

Latino/Hispanic Studies Initiative: 
Social with visiting scholars and ND faculty, followed by a dance at the Center for Social Concerns. 
Sunday, February 15, 1:30pm Keenan Stanford Chapel 

Misa En Espanol -Spanish Mass 
Monday, Feb. 16, 5:30pm, Main Circle 

African American Students Dinner and Conversation (at Montego Bay Restaurant) 
Beeler scholarship fund accumulates $1.5 million 
Special to the Observer 
An endowed scholarship fund established in memory of Margaret "Meghan" Beeler has accumulated more than $1.5 million. Beeler was one of the two Notre Dame students killed six years ago when the women's swim team bus crashed on the Indiana Toll Road. 
"Meghan Beeler's far-too­brief life exemplifies the virtues that the Notre Dame family celebrates and relies upon," said University President Father Edward Malloy. "It is heartening to know that her witness and the generosity it has inspired will enable future generations of similarly splendid young men and women to join the commu­nity of which she has become sue~ an indispensable mem­ber. 
According to Notre Dame's financial aid director Joseph Russo, the Beeler scholarship fund will exceed $2.5 million when current pledges have been received by the University. 
The scholarship fund has been supported by corpora­tions, foundations and nearly 600 Notre Dame alumni, par-
PEACE CORPS 
Information Session 
Tuesday, February 17 Center for Social Concerns 6:00p.m. 

Information Tables 
February 16-17 Hesburgh Library Lobby Interviews will be conducted at Career Planning and Placement. Call1-5200. 
~~­
(~(800)424-8580 

~ www.peacecorps.gov 
ents and friends during the six years since the accident. 
"It's the widest and most diverse instance of scholarship support in the University's his­tory, and the endowment has become one of our largest in that short amount of time," Russo said. Six Notre Dame students have been designated Meghan Beeler Scholars, and two have been graduated. 
One of the most devastating events in the University's histo­ry, the accident occurred shortly after midnight on Jan. 24, 1992, when a bus carrying 32 members of the women's swim team back to Notre Dame from a meet with Northwestern University in Evanston, Ill., overturned about four miles west of cam­pus during a blinding snow­storm. Two freshmen, Meghan Beeler of South Bend and Colleen Hipp of St. Louis, were killed in the resulting crash. 
The Beeler scholarship fund, established by her grieving family only a few days later, soon became a focus of the nationwide outpouring of sym­pathy which followed the tragedy. 
Beeler was a 1991 graduate of St. Joseph's High School in South Bend. 
Friday, February 13, 1998

page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
ROLFS SPORTS HOURS 
Monday-Friday 6:30 a.m.-11 p.m. Saturday 9a.m.-11 p.m. Sunday Noon-11 p.m. 

T
he Rolf Sports Recreation· Center offers recreational ath­letes with three multi-purpose courts, a suspend­ed walking/running track, a large fit­ness room, and two activity rooms. 
The new Rolfs Sports Center opens its doors to the recreational ath~ letes of Notre Dame. 




The Grand Opening of the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center will be tomorrow from 2 to 4 p.m. 
University President Edward "Monk" Malloy will bless the building at 2:30p.m. 
Photos by Joe Stark 



Friday, February 13, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
other dance classes. The lane and one-tenth of a mile on Rockne Memorial will continue the inside lane. 



Rolfs 
to offer aerobic and dance The track is surrounded by a classes in its facility. All classes railing which overlooks thecontinued from page 1 previously taught in the Joyce gyms on the lower level. It is 
Center, however, will move to composed of a synthetic mix­THE UPPER LEVEL the Rolfs Sports Center. ture and the surface has small 
The Rolfs Sports Recreation Another feature of these bumps which ease pressure on Center is divided into four lev­activity rooms is the soft floor. the legs by providing more fric­els: upper, track, entry and "We designed the floor so that tion. 
lower. 
it allowed a lot of movement "The track itself cost over half The upper level of the build­and was easier on the legs," a million dollars," Derengoski ing is composed of two spacious Derengoski explained. said. 
activity rooms and a landing The area overlooking the Three sides of the track have over looking the entrance to the entrance will be equipped with full plate-glass windows facing 
building. These rooms will be aerobic equipment for those outside the building. 
used for students practicing students who want a view of "The windows provide for a dance, aerobics and martial the Dome or who want to avoid very bright, open building," 
arts. Two walls are covered the crowds in the fitness room, said Derengoski. "It is really 
with full-length mirrors, and Derengoski said. welcoming to many different 
the other walls have large win­types of people of all ages." 
dows and a ballet barre. The THE TRACK Different pieces of fitness 
windows offer students a view One unique feature of the equipment will be dispersed 
of Basilica of the Sacred Heart, Rolfs Sports Center is the three­throughout the level, in addi­
the library and the Dome. lane suspended track, con­tion to the track. 
Two dozen aerobic programs structed between the upper and will be offered in these rooms, entry levels. This track is one­THE ENTRY LEVEL along with jazz, ballet and eighth of a mile on the outside The entry level of the new 
facility will include a large fit­
ness room and the new offices 
of the RecSports department

WANTED: MARKETING 
and the IRISHealth Resource Center.


ASSISTANT MANAGER 
The fitness room provides 5,000 square feet of fitness

"The Observer is looking for an Assistant 
room and state of the art fitness equipment. 
"It is the only fitness facility

Marketing Manager to help with coordinating 
the full color advertising spreads that appear 
available to students from morning until midnight,"

regularly such as 'The Bar Page', 'The Map 
Derengoski said. The fitness center is divided

Page', etc. This is a PA~D position and we 
into two parts: the front half 

are seeking Sophomore Business Majors. 
will have 36 pieces of fitness equipment, and the back sec­

Contact Greg Szilier @4-1695 for more 
tion of the center is composed of machine weights and a full

information." 
free-weight area.

Deadline: Saturday, February 21 
A unique feature of the Rolfs Center is the "cardio-theater" found in the fitness room. This 



Diamond PriceQuotations 246-1939 
Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely with information in our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, 186 pages, hardbound. 
The Diainond Authority®
A Division of John M. Marshall's, Inc. Established 1965 
Monday-Friday, lOa.m. to 6p.m. 
KeyBank Building, Suite #101 South Bend, Indiana 46601 
Following the dedication and games the facility will be open for regular use. 
e~a­
~:t~ 
~4~ 
()~ad. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
•Used 
books bought and sold 

•25 
Categories of Books 

•25,000 
Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

•Out-of-Print 
search service: $2.00 

•Appraisals 
large and small 


Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 

C/) 
1027 E. Wayne

C/) 
Qj
<!.) 

~ 
1'1 
South Bend, IN 46617

8 -o 
0
..c: 
(219) 232-8444z"' ~ p., 

cardio-theater includes four a plexi-glass wall, and it has televisions and 26 fitness player boxes on each side. machines. Students will be able Hockey goals will. normally to plug headphone sets into the stand in the rink, although different fitness machines and there are also doors which will tune into one of the four televi-open to allow soccer goals to sions or any radio station. Some be put in as needed. nights a movie might be fea-The lower level also includes tured on one of the televisions, three wood courts, with mark­and students can tune into that ings for basketball, volleyball as well. and badminton. The women's 
"The intent is to give students volleyball team will practice more of a variety when they on one of the courts, but the exercise," Derengoski said. other two will be open for stu­"This way, every student can -dent use. · listen to what he or she wants Derengoski views these to." courts as a major improve-
The fitness area will include ment in recreational fitness on stair-masters, treadmills, sta-campus. tionary bikes, ellipticals and "The Rolfs Center will be the other equipment. Ellipticals are best place for badminton and suspended steps that glide back other forms of free-play," she and forth, simulating a running said. "Free-play in the Joyce motion without direct impact Center is difficult because on the legs. there is no regular schedule, 
The back half.of the fitness and it is hard to know what is center will include about 20 available when. The Rolfs pieces of machine weights, Center will put an emphasis including Body Master and on free-play." Seibeck strength-machines. The She added that all intramur­area will also be equipped with al competition will continue to a full free-weight system, take place in the Joyce Center. including top-of-the-line dumb-The lower level also offers a bells and barbells. recreational area with two 
The other section of the entry pool tables and three table­level will be the new RecSports tennis tables. offices. All the offices that are "This [Rolfs Center] is the currently located in the Joyce only recreational table-tennis Center will re-locate to the available on campus," she Rolfs Sports Center. In addition, said. the IRISHealth Resource Center The final feature of the will find a home in the new lower level are the men's and facility. IRISHealth is an office women's locker rooms. The in the Department of Human men's locker room has more Resources, which provides than 200 lockers, and the health promotion programs to women's locker room holds students and faculty. 150. In addition, the perimeter 
The final component of the of the gyms will contain coin­entry-level will be the check-in return lockers for student or desk. One side of the desk will faculty use. be dedicated to RecSports, including sign-ups for inter-hall THE RULES activities and other RecSports The RecSports Recreation programs. The other side of the Center will be open to all desk will be an information and Notre Dame students, staff, equipment station where work­faculty, retirees and their ers will answer questions and spouses. All persons entering hand out towels and other the facility must have a valid equipment. Notre Dame identification card 
or RecSports user card. 

THE LOWER LEVEL The facility will be open 
The final level of the Rolfs Monday-Friday from 6:30 a.m. Sports Center will include to 11 p.m.; Saturday from 9 three gyms, a rink with a plas­a.m. to 11 p.m.; and Sunday tic floor, a recreational area, from noon to 11 p.m. lockers and the men's and women's locker rooms. THE GRAND OPENING 
According to Derengoski, the The opening of the Rolfs plastic rink is a major Sports Recreation Center will improvement in recreational be tomorrow from 2 p.m. to 4 fitness. The rink is designed p.m., and is open to all stu­for floor hockey, in-line hock­dents, employees and faculty. ey, volleyball, socc()r and President Malloy will bless lacrosse practices and games. the building at 2:30 p.m .. With many varsity practices in Following the blessing there the Joyce Center, these club will be prize give-aways and sports enjoy little practice games that students can play. time; the Rolfs Sports Center In addition, the first 200 stu­will alleviate this problem. dents to arrive at the ceremo­
The rink is surrounded with ny will receive a free t-shirt, 
donated by PJ Marketing, Inc. 





SUCCESS! 
Attention Liberal Arts Majors 
Gain a competitive edge in the job market. Add essential business concepts and skills to your employment profile. 
The PassKey Institute 
Principles of Business for Liberal Arts Majors, Butler University, May 26--June 19. Open to all junior and senior liberal arts and sciences/fine arts majors. Applications due Feb. 23, 1998. 
Total immersion business study: marketing, finance, computing, law and ethics 
• tailored for liberal learners • instruction by business faculty • mentoring by business executives • follow-up internships 
The PassKey Institute Telephone: 1317) 940-8380 • Fax: 1317} 940-6443 
BUTLER
E-mail: khoover@butler.edu 
.. UNIVERSITY

Internet: http://www.butler.edu/wwwfcareerflaswk 
' 
~
-= 
; ­
riJ 
= 
~ 
<ll 
~ 
riJ riJ 
c. ~ 
<ll 
.:
-
-= 
= 
~ ~ 
= 
= 
i 
5 
r.. 
.s
.5 
<ll 
r.. 
= 
5 
<ll 
e 
-= 
= 
<ll 
riJ 
<ll 
~ 
<ll 
== 



page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 13, 1998 
• • • • • • • • •• •• • • • • ••••• • ••• •• • • •• • Beginning F~ry~h Enter to win y~u~~"'nce to '-.... crowned KING or QUEEN iff'"' Finnigan's ow~ Mardi Gras Celetlr · 1\, The winner will rece~ tr1 ~ to New Or~nsv­r' Drawing will be held on ~u9ry 20Jh. Different events,gatnes, and prizes. ~ ..... W~h for.more details in r ?".the Observer ~ or call 283-0452 ~"-;~•• ·~J' •••~••••••••••••••••••••• "' -Fitmigan's Irish Pub 113 E. Wayne Downtown South Bend  




Clinic 
continued f~om page 1 
the 'working poor,"' said Carla Bies. the clinical director at Chapin Street. "It is a miscon­ception to say that they don't work, but they work at low­paying jobs. The eost of insur­ance is exorbitant, especially for someone who is only mak­ing $7 an hour and trying to support a family." 
"We ask them to contribute $5 for serviens rendered, and if they cannot, maybe they can give us $1," she continued. "Even if they can't give us a dollar, this does not reflect on whether they get treated or not." 
Prospective clients must have an income of no more than 150 percent of the gov­ernment-delirwd poverty level. Exceptions are made, howev­er, aceording to the number of dependents in the household. 
The elinic provides services to the Michiana community with only four full-time staff members. More than 80 pri­vate physicians volunteer for two or 1nore hours per month at the elinie, and some of these work on a weekly basis. A number of nurses and retired persons also volunteer their time to make the clinic a liv­ing, breathing entity. 
Forty-night undergraduate and graduate students from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross College volunteer on a weekly basis at the clinic as well. 
"We call our students 'Clinic Assisted Volunteers,"' Peters said. "They can do a number of things when they first start, such as preparing charts, and making reminder phone calls to patients. Once their skills are validated, they can take the blood pressure, tempera­ture and other vital signs of 
Use Observer classifieds. 
patients. 
"Some of our volunteers have been here for four years. The more that they come, the more that they are able to do. We do have a summer service project that is here, and usual­ly the summer service project people come in for the sum­mer and stay for their last year." 
I01 addition to the Summer Service Project and Clinic Assisted Volunteer Program, a year-long service project is featured at the clinic. 
The Tom Dooley Service Award, underwritten by the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley and St. Joseph Medical Center, is given yearly to a senior with a preprofessional concentration. Named after Notre Dame graduate and physician Thomas Dooley, the ctward provides the recipient the opportunity to work with the patients, volunteers and staff of the clinic for an entire year. The recipient receives with a stipend of $8,000 for the year and gains invaluable experience in the medical field. 
"I never realized until I started working at the clinic how much need is in this com­munity," said Ed McCoul, this year's Dooley award recipient. "It is easy to fall into the trap [at Notre Dame] to do service 
The University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents Guest Artist 
Ursula Oppens, pianist 
2 p.m.,Sunday, February 15 
advance at the LaFortune Box Office, or charge by phone 631-8218. 
Call631-620l for more information . without really thinking about what you are doing. But at the clinic, you see so many prob­lems -and so many people 
down on their luck  - that it  
really affects you in  a  very  
positive way."  

Dave Sparks, a 1994 Notre Dame graduate who has vol­unteered at the clinic for two years, is enthusiastic about the unique opportunities that the clinic has given to him. 
"I want to be a pediatrician, so it worked out great that I've been able to keep the time free in my school schedule when the pediatricians come," he said. "Through the clinic I've been able to meet a guy who is getting a lung trans­plant. As soon as he gets his lung transplanted, he will need home care. Through the clinic, I've been able to meet him and I'll be able to go to his house once a week and help him out." 
"It's really neat how our patients touch people's lives," Peters said. "That's why we do this; we wouldn't do it other­wise. That's why it's so much fun for students because we love what we do and share that with them." 
"Our goal is to make sure that they continue volunteer­ing beyond their experiences here," Peters continued. "This is a great opportunity for us to show the students that there are professionals that are still finding the time in their sched­ules to volunteer as well." 
Elma Bautista, a staff mem­ber at Chapin Street Health Center, shows quite an admi­ration for the clinic. 
"I think that it is amazing, when you think about it, what we really have to offer," she said. "People come in here without any insurance, or money for that matter, and see the best doctors in the area. They come out with hundreds of dollars of prescriptions and testing. You can't get that from Medicaid or Medicare. 
"Our patients," Bautista con­tinued, "are so very thankful that we are here. A lot of peo­ple will tell you straight out that the would not even have any.. other way to see a doe­tor. 
You can be a part of an important clinical research study. 

Do You Have The Flu or Cold Symptoms? 
You may be eligible to participate in a medical research study which will provide: 
-STUDY RELATED CLINIC VISITS I PHYSICAL EXAMS -STUDY MEDICATION FOR THE FLU -LABORATORY TESTS -FINANCIAL COMPENSATION UP TO $150.00 -KNOWLEDGE THAT YOUR PARTICIPATION COULD 
HELP OTHERS IN THE FUTURE 
To qualify to participate you must be between 18 and 65 years of age. You must have a temperature of at least 1 00 degrees Fahrenheit and have some symptoms such as sore throat, nasal symptoms, fatigue or aches and pains. Please call us within 36 hours of the onset of these symptoms. 
For more information about this medical research study being conducted in South Bend call: 1-888-1-GOT-FLU 
Health Advance Institute Medical Research Centers 
• SECURITY BEAT 
Mon., Feb. 9 
5:03 p.m. Security responded to a one car accident at Moose Krause Circle. There were no Injuries reported. 
9:47 p.m. A University Village resident reported harassing telephone calls. 
Tues., Feb. 10 
6:30 p.m. An off-campus student was transported to the University Health Center for treatment of a sports Injury. 
10:25 p.m. A Dillon Hall resident report­ed the theft of his bike from outside LaFortune. His bike was not locked at the time of the theft. 
Wed., Feb.11 5:15p.m. Security responded to a two car accident on Juniper Road. There were no injuries reported. 
8:00 p.m. A University employee report­ed the theft of her wallet from her purse at the South Dining Hall. Her purse was left unattended at the time of the theft. 
10:58 p.m. Security transported a Zahm Hall resident to the University Health Center for treatment of a sports injury. 
---~---~-~~~ ~ ----~-­

Friday, February 13, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page? 

Election raffle,,lr 
By T.J. THORNTON News Writer 
Voter turnout in yesterday's run-q~ele<;tio:q,;lii: improved by 12 . oints ·'6verlast ·; year, and the election co1nn:titt1~e·.:~ r<lffi1a c1ar.,•.~.u·l,,,,,, ......,.~u ly played a role in the increase, Lori Mrowka of the election committee. 
"The free sodas given away in the primary, and the raffle conducted during the ruuoff.:. helped matters," said Mrowka, "but we found " that many who did not know about the candi~ dates were reluctant to vote, despite the prizes," •; ·· 
The winners follow: 
• Sony Playstation 
~~~;;~~~~t~~~ N\je~~~te~b~f f!:f:et~'ir >1i;~t ;, 
Dorell Garcia, Welsh Family Hall .... 
., 


[HEERLERD I NG 

Gym 1, Joyce Center Leprechaun Candidates should also attend this meeting 


·o ·..•
'. 
·o·

·n··:;t
.,·: 
I I I 
By ALEX ORR 
News Writer· 
The name "Fighting Irish" may be fast becoming a mis­nomer for the students at Notre Dame. 
The University's population of Latino and Hispanic students has been increasing as fast as any in the nati·on in recent years, putting a new face on the school's student body. 
In order to address these changing demographics -a full 10 percent of Notre Dame stu­dents are now Hispanic -there will be a planning session this weekend for the proposed acad­emic concentration in Latino/Hispanic studies. 
Beginning today, the planning session will bring together guest presenters from all over the country in an effort to chart the future path of this concentra­tion. These sessions will take place in rooms 100 through 104 of the Center for Continuing Education. 
The discussions will kick off at 
1:30 p.m. today with a session called "The Samora Legacy," chaired by Father Timothy Scully, imd featuring presenters Gilberto Cardenas of the University of Texas, Refugio Rochin of Michigan State University, and Jorge Bustamante from Notre Dame. 
After a 15-minute break, the meeting will resume at 3 p.m. with the "Alumni-Student Perspective." Frank Castillo, Carlos Carriedo, Colleen Knight and Frank Santoni will speak. Afterward, members of Notre Dame's Latino and Hispanic community can voice their con­cerns and views regarding the proposals. 
Mass will be offered for all participants at 5:15p.m. at Guadalupe Chapel in Keough Hall. The day will be rounded out with a dinner at the Center for Social Concerns for the workshop attendees and the full body of Latino!Hispanic stu­dents, and a "Convivencia," at 9:30p.m., by general invitation. 
The third session, "Charting a Course for Latino Studies," will be held at 9 a.m. Saturday. Chaired by Scott Mainwaring, this session will include Ramon Gutierrez from the University of California at San Diego, Michael Gonzalez from the University of San Diego and Albert Camarillo of Stanford University. Evelyn Hu-Dehart, from the University of Colorado, will serve as the mediator. 
A closing luncheon will take place at Greenfields Cafe, in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies, following the completion of the final ses­sion. 
Voted: Area's Best Tanning Center Every Year 
;u:-.~it;d"T;n-;;i-;;~ or i1oTanning, 
1 Up To Spring 1 1 Bed · : I Break I I Sessions IL(3-6-98} only $35 I I only $35.00 I 
--------~ L--------~
University Commons Grape & McKinley 
by UP Mall near KMart 

272-7653 256-9656 

You could earn: 
$20°0 after your first plasma donation! 
$15°0 if you donate alone (first visit) 
$5°0 ifyou show college I.D. (first visit) 
$20°0 TOTAL! 
$1 0°0 per person ifyou recruit someone and they donate twice . 
• Jilt,P US SAVE LIVESt 
"~' ' ', $ < ,,.: 
Must be 18 years old; proof ofcurrent address with photo I.D. 
Come to: Hours: 
AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL M-F: 9:00-6:00 
515 Lincolnway West Sat: 8:00 -5:00 
South Bend, IN 46601-1117 Ph. 234-6010 
Scholars meet to plan Latino concentration 

r---------~------------------------­
Friday, February 13, I 998 

page 8 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 

Elections 
continued from page 1 
votes, especially in the home dorms of Williams and Reising, Zahm and Pasquerilla East. 
"It was a really close race, and either side could have won," student body vice president Erek Nass said. 
"I think student govern-'WE ARE ENTRUSTED WITH A 
ment is in good hands." Cesaro and Selak have LARGE ROLE. WE WILL NOT 
~nany ~tans for next y~ar, LET THE STUDENTS DOWN.' 
1neludmg extendmg SafeHide to Thursday nights and pushing for a student rnpresentativc on the Board of Trustees. 
"I want to be involved with things that effect all the students, nspecially things like the new bookstore," Selak said. "And there am a lot of existing plans that will carry over. It will be a busy year." 
Cesaro plans to start his term with a student government retreat and setting his long­tnrm goals for the year. 
"I think I am going to go to the Grotto first. though," he said. 
Although Williams and 
Heising lost the election, both 
CJ(Carllto), 

have a positive outlook on the future of student government. 
"Julie and I did the best we could; we ran a good campaign and maintained integrity throughout," Williams said. "We didn't run because we wanted to be president and vice president, we ran because that was the best avenue we saw to ment, but Williams is positive that they will both "stay involved." 
''I'm just glad to see the sup­port the students had for us," he said. 
With incentives such as free fountain drinks at the Huddle and a raffle for a Sony Playstation, the student govern­ment judicial council tried to entice more of the under­graduate student population to vote in this year's elec­tion. And the strategy seemed to work; this year's turnout was better than in 

years past. PETHR CESARO "I am really excited that S7VlJliNT BoDY PRESIDENT -ELECT the turnout ~as ~igher. than 
give something back to Notre Dame. I wish good luck to Peter and hope that he uses his office to the best of his ability." 
"Brandon and I decided so late to make our campaign offi­cial that it could have been a hindrance," Reising said. "I know we ran a fair campaign, and no matter what, I am really glad to see a woman in office this year." 
Williams and Reising are not yet sure in what capacity they will serve on student govern-
OneFagotOOag1 
..-"sliarOOmgsongwlih!JOU. Anaevenwfim9ou're84, acanci6n1«givetoyou. 
Sag tU amtgapara~~,,~~~,. 

!acantante ­
We love yoo ~~ o·Neill 3Bl 
'fFrom the Walsh girls. Speedy, and Sam • 

last year, said Nicole 
Borda, a member of the stu­dent government Judicial Council. "I am positive it was because of the incentives. I even had people calling me to rig the drawing for the Playstation. I didn't, of course." 
But now the voting is over, and Cesaro and Selak are ready to begin their new positions. 
"We are entrusted with a large role," Cesaro said. "We will not let the students down." 
"Our platform is doable," Selak added. "We really are 'Putting Students First.'" 






~.. ~rggg~ '!!!!!.~!' 
i~~1fJlV~ IOOH .. FIElDHOUSE MAll 
i';p..."J.f1_!;~~ed by z~!JP' hall 
HIGHLIGHTS: 
12 PM PIG ROAST naklllfllll••••rteniSIIIIDI 3 PM BUCH PARTY ,............SlldRIIIS 12 PM DUNK TAIII 
dnwaalalablellt•Ha 
1 PM ICE BOWl ueennv-llenl.lt's•lllllvs.•UIII 12 PM PITCH RAOU 
meaure•rC111111stllsDall 
12 PM KISSING BOOTH l'sniHdles lin. VOl bled 
free prizes, food, r-shirts, and more! 
African American & Hispanic Students 
Summer Leadership Internships available: 
Stop by the Office for Multicultural Student Affairs or the Center for Social Concerns for an application. 
Application Deadline: February 13th (Friday) 
Opportunities available in: South Bend (both) Chicago (both) (Detroit) (African American) San Diego (Hispanic) Lexington (Hispanic) 
• 
Ten weeks of leadership and service work sponsored by the Black Alumni and Hispanic Alumni of Notre Dame. 

• 
Academic work and experience earning 3 elective credits in Theology. 



C l II T l II , 0 II 
SOCIAL
• $2300.00 Tuition Scholarship CONCERNS 
TITANIC (PG-13) DIGITAL 12:00 4:00 8:15 8U.JES BR01l£RS (PG-13) !X31TAI... 1:15 4:15700 9:40 fBllACEM:NT KI..1HIS(R) 12:30 2:30 4:45 7:40 9:45 
GOOD WILL HUNTING (A) 1:30 4:30 7:20 10:10 
~~(PG13) 
12:15 2:45 500 73J 9".50 SPHERE (PG13) 1:00 4:10 7:10 10:00 
Sat/Sun Mat. in (brackets) GREAT EXPECTATIONS (A) (1 :30]4:30 7:30 10:00 THE BORROWERS (PG) [12:45] 
[2:45]5:00 7:15 9:15 AS GOOD AS IT GETS (PG-13) [1:00)4:00 7:00 9:50 



r----------------------------------,
I •PRIVATE IN ROOM I 
I I
I JACUZZI SPAS (FOR 2) I 
I •FREE CONTINENTAL BREAKFAST I 
I I I •FREE HBO, CNN, ESPN I 
: ~DTEL :
•FREE LOCAL CALLS, FAX 

I ® •KITCHENETTES I 

: 272
..9000 : 
I 

I Available to all students and parents with this coupon. : (no 10 required) QUAUTY RATED 1 

L----------------~~~~~:~~~2~~~!~~~-J 


Friday, February 13, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES 
• WORlD NEWS BRIEFS 
Australian delegates approve breaking ties with Queen 
CANBERRA, Australia 
Delegates to a constitutional convention on Friday overwhelmingly supported Australia becoming a republic and cutting its remain­ing ties to the British monarchy. Spontaneous applause broke out in the chamber and pub­lic galleries as the crucial vote in favor of a republic passed by a vote of 89-52, with 11 abstentions. When the convention opened two weeks ago, pro-monarchist Prime Minister John Howard promised that he would put any model for a republic agreed upon by the con­vention to a public referendum by the end of 1999. "The Australian people are owed the opportunity of expressing an opinion on this," Howard said Friday. Monarchists hope to defeat the republic at the referendum; pro­republicans hope to have an Australian presi­dent by the opening of the 2000 Olympics and the 1OOth anniversary of Australian federa­tion. Polls have shown public support for a republic increasing, rising from about 35 per­cent several years ago to about 51 percent this year. Australia has been independent since 1901. but like many Commonwealth nations it still recognizes the British monarch as its head of state. Howard said Queen Elizabeth II is taking a great interest in the convention. "She's indicated to me ... she is a 20th-Century democrat. understands that the role of the crown in Australia rests in the hands of the Australian people as it has for almost a hundred years." 
Nobel laureate loses job 
WASHINGTON 
Four months after winning the Nobel Peace Prize for campaigning to ban land mines, Jody Williamas is leaving the job that brought her sudden prominence and a $500,000 check. There's also a question about who gets the other half of the $1 million prize. Williams' former employers said Thursday that as coor­dinator of the International Campaign to Ban Landmines she had "failed to grow with the movement" and keeping her on board would have created problems rather than enhanced the campaign's standing. She. however, insist­ed she's not leaving the campaign but is stay­ing on as "probably an ambassador-at-large." "I don't know what she means by being an ambassador." said Bobby Muller, president of the Vietnam Veterans of America Foundation, which staffs, finances and houses the cam­paign. Williams' role could be determined at a meeting of the campaign's steering committee in Germany next week. Another detail will have to be sorted out: the Nobel Peace Prize committee has also awarded $500,000 to the 1.000-member International Campaign to Ban Landmines, an organization that does not exist. according to Muller. "There is no International Campaign to Ban Landmines that you can make a check out to," said Muller. 
RtM§il\ftfNiwlltW

AMEX:Dow 686.15 
+1.82 

]ONES 
Nasdaq: 1714.34

8369.60 

+5.78 
NYSE: 532.61 +1.86 

S&P 500: Composite 1024.14 Volume: +4.13 614,000,000 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
rnMe~rsl: IlriHH 1 ~1 ~ ll·~~i~~ S Sl,~l~ ~BICE 
INTA SY(j CORP 1:'\iTAP S5..l6 0.9688 2.7188 CEI.LEGY l'llARM-WT CLGYW 37.50 0.7500 2.7500 HAWKS INDUSTRIES HAWKLJ 33.33 0.6250 2.5000 AID AUTO STORES AIDA 32.14 0.5265 2.3125 STEVEN MADDE-WTB SHOOZ 28.21 0.6875 3.1250 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 
SYQUF.ST TECll SYQT 22.64 0.7500 2.5625 INH:RPORE. 1:'\.'TL BONZ 21.96 J.812S 6.4375 LINCOLN SNACKS SNAX 21.80 0.5-113 1.9063 COMPUTER OUTSOUR COSI 20.78 2.0000 7.6250 CASINO DATA SYS CSDS 20.00 0.8125 3.2500 


Arafat warns Israel of renewed fighting 
AssociATED PREss 
RAMALLAH, West Bank 
Frustrated by Israel's refusal to cede more West Bank land, Yasser Arafat threatened Thursday to "cross out" the peace agreements and unleash a new uprising against Israel. 
In a fiery speech coincid­ing with Israel's 50th anniversary celebrations, the Palestinian leader also reiterated he would declare a Palestinian state in parts of the West Bank and Gaza Strip next year if the dead­lock in negotiations contin­ues. 
"I have the right," he told reporters later. 
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said the threat showed Arafat was not serious about peace. 
"When Arafat says that if he doesn't get what he wants ... '! will make an intefadah,' there is no bet­ter example of the fact that we have a long way to go before we reach real peace," Netanyahu told business people in Tel Aviv. 
Meanwhile, fresh clashes erupted in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. In the divided town of Hebron, dozens of Palestinian high school students threw stones at Israeli soldiers manning a checkpoint, and troops fired rubber bullets in response. 
In Gaza, Palestinian police tried to tear down a said. have stopped short of firing in Washington earlier this fence erected by Jewish Palestinian police briefly on each other. week, but made no settlers in a land dispute trained their weapons on The latest violence and progress. outside the Newe Dekalim Israeli soldiers, but left the mutual recriminations The Palestinian negotia­settlement. A scuffle broke area after commanders come at a time when the tors, who returned out between Palestinian intervened. Such instances peace talks are on hold, Thursday, arrived at police and Israeli troops, of Israeli and Palestinian partly because of deep divi­Arafat's Ramallah head­and one Israeli soldier was soldiers threatening one sions and partly because of quarters to brief him as the slightly hurt by a rifle butt with weapons have been on the crisis in Iraq. Israeli Palistinian leader was swung by a Palestinian the rise in recent weeks, and Palestinian negotiators speaking to a group of jour­policeman, the Israeli army but so far the two sides held talks with U.S. officials nalists and U.N. officials. 
Federal judge re 
AssociATED PRESS kill projects in their home districts. ''Alot of the reformist zeal that WASHINGTON came in. in 1994 hasn't died but has 
A federalj:udge.threw out President ta~cpayei~s ~fi.pir~ retreated," said Rep. Mark Souder, R· Clinton's ne.w. fin~·it~m veto authority a line~item veto supporter. Thursday, li.i'lt'\1E1ting a blow to a .··<$~h.ldl)r· VI elected in 1994, when a powe.l' . both •·· · ton and . the CI~U~i'Qt1llticjmtl amendment for a .line­Republican C. said was crucial· •. was part of the Republican 
for lhnitin w diltg~,A de.ci~ 
With America". 
roe. Cott.rt · of the power rejoiced in months: ruling,_ including··sen.._._sJ:l.-.Hogan D·W.Va., one of six law· 
etd, enacted· in challenged the law's con· 1996 al:l.d e irrsttime last last year. Their suit was year, unconstitl).tiQI"t&llyshifted power version, when a judge ruled they to the pr:esiqentfrom· the. Congress. amendm~nt. Jll(l rne<).s~e legal standing to bring the The measure allows the president to was a law, kill individual it¢ms in tax and spend­amendment, beCilllSfl nrnn.IYI1fA "This iS a victory for the American ing bills that otherwise become law, could not mustl:lr the two · people~" said Byrd, a fierce defender though he can be reversed by two­majority needed to change cf Congress' perogatives. "It is their thirds majorities of the House and Constitution. Constitution, their republic, and their Senate. "We'll fight and win," said Sen. John liberties that have been made more 
"The line-item veto act impermissi­McCain, R·Ariz. ·· · secure." bly crosses the }int) between accept­But others conceded that if Clinton used the new power 82 able delegations of rulemaking a next time, there might be times last year, all but twice on spend­authority and unauthorized surrender siasmfor the power. The api;>rl)actnnJ:r ing items, saving a claimed $1.9 bil­to the president of an inherently leg­age of budget surpluses .ua., .,Hn.ut~­lion.. · the next five years. But those islative function, name.Iy, the authority deficit reduction less <i<n.nn<Tc r•~nr'P.~•~nt just 0.0002 percent to permanently shape laws and pack­many lawmakers · . uiut.~~PP'Y trillion that will be spent age legislation,;~ ~()gan wrote. year wh~n Clinton ....,.,,u .....,. period. 





VIEWPOINT 

page 10 Friday, February 13, 1998 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME O!'FJCE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (2 I9) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Brad Prc:ndcrga.'it 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Jamie Hdslcr Tom Roland 
Assistant Managing Editor 

I Jan Cichalski News Editor.............. ........ Heather Cocb Advertising Manager.... . ................... jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ...................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager ........ Jennifer Breslow 
Spom Editor ....... Mike Day Production Manager ........................ Mark DeBoy Accent Editor... .. .......... Joey Crawford Systems Manager... . .............. Michael Brouiller Saint Mary's Editor ........... Lori Allen Controller........................................... Kyle Carlin Photo Edicor ........................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by rhe swdenrs of the University of Notre Dame du Lu.: and Saim Mary's College. h does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administration oftither imrirurion. The new:~o i~ reponed as a<.:curardy and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhc opinion of the majority of rhc Ediror-in-Chie:f. Managing Editor, A'isi!atanr Managing Editor, News Ediwr1 Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Ediwr, Phoco Editor, and A<isociate New!t Editor. Commenrouie!a, letters and Inside Columns presem the views of the authors, and not neces­sarily those of The Ob~erver. Vicwpoim space is available ro all mcm~rs of the N'orrc Dame/Saint Mary's community omd fO dill readers. The free expression of varying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Busines> Office 631-5313 Managing Edimr 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Phmo 631-5323 Sysrems 631-8839 Sports 631-4543 Office Manager 631-7471 Acc~m/Saim Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Viewpoinr 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail obscrver@darwin.cc.nd.edu 


In Washington, everyone who is any­one in polities has an opinion along with p(wsonal theories about the various aspects of llw White House crisis. Seated just two sections apart last week at the Notre Damn/Georgetown basketball game wore such notables as the CIA dirndor, a banking investment CEO and noted national journalists Mark Shields 

Gary Caruso 
and AI llunt. 
The Georgetown alumni networking lakns on an art form at tho new MCJ Cnntnr. It was in full throttle as alumni muld bt~ ovnrhmtrd while they huddled in small groups on the concourse level during the halftime intermission. All worn abuzz not about the poor play of the lloyas or the pathetic play of the Irish. but about the latnst Monica Lewinsky developments. 
"Look for a Monica in the Whitn House," said the anonymous woman during her early autumn phone conver­sation to the Rutherford Institute, the ultra-conservative organization bankrolling the Paula Jones $2 million suit against President Clinton. According to the institute's president. John Whitehead, the woman called weeks later and provided the full name, "Monica Lewinsky." Iler tip began the series of events that will forever, partial­ly charaetnrize the Clinton presidency. 
Whitnhead denies that the woman's voice soundnd like that of Linda Tripp, tlw now infamous tapn-toting former WhitP Ilouse employee who sought gos­sip and secretly recorded her conversa­tions with young Lewinsky. To many, Whitnhnad's din~ct intnrest in this 
• CAPITAl COMMENTS 

Halftime Consensus at 
Therefore, they have continuously fished for evidence and orchestrated leaks to prod Starr, as well as to further embar­rass the President. However, as time passes and the facts are slowly exposed, their efforts have slowly backfired. 
Examples of such backfires inelude thn leak that Clinton admitted under oath in the Jones suit to an affair with Gennifer Flowers. That was false, but the leak allowed conservatives to run wildly for a while with the allegation, "See, I told you he was a sleazy liar." In the Jones ease the President is bound by the court not to make public statements. The way his critics twist the truth, no one can blame Clinton for refusing to comment on the Lewinsky case. 
Other leaks that contend that Lewinsky had tapes of Clinton's voiee on her answering machine and that she had stained elothing were also false. In fact, Clinton's personal secretary, Betty Currie, not Lewinsky, had the elothing which Currie then turned over to Starr's ol'lice. That development has puzzled many, but Lewinsky's mother, Marcia Lewis, may be responsible for removing the items from her daughter's posses­sion. 
Compounding Lewis' woes are recent details outlining how Tripp, Lewinsky and Lewis held joint marathon phone conversations in which they specifically discussed ways to avoid subpoenas. It has been reported that in one conversa­tion, Lewinsky is supposed to have sug­gested to Tripp that a sickness or injury could prevent Tripp from testifying. Lewinsky's mother is reported to have called that idea "brilliant." 
Lewis may also have arranged for the legal counsel who wrote the infamous "talking points" document that suggested ways for Tripp to untruthfully answer questions under oath. Tripp gave that document, along with her tape record­ings, to Starr. Starr, in turn, presented the materials to Reno. When word leaked out that the document existed, many of Clinton's adversaries speculated that the document may have come from 

• 000NESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
JV~U, I CAN!!l£ HCW7H4T M/6HTl/P.!ierS(JtlfC tJt= >Ott. BUT 
JVIIAT YO(} HA~ 7lJ Ra11EM9f31{ 
15 THATSH&HAS ' 
8/fEN Pf?i3ml?et:J 
FO.R lH/5 AU. 
H#?UF/3... 
• QuOTE OF THE DAY 
"Let us love one another, for love is of God." 
-1 John 4:7 


NO/Georgetown Game 
anonymous source muddies the truthful­ness of his assessment. Undeniably, the woman greatly assisted the anti-Clinton forces by serving Lewinsky on a silver platter to the aggressive Jones attorneys who, coinddentally, are paid by the Hutlwrford Jnstitutn. 
Mueh has been said about the dose link between independent prosecutor Kenneth Starr's investigation and the Paula Jones suit. At times, it has seemed like they were acting hand-in-hand. The public gamesmanship bntween the extrnmes on each side of the issue ranges from the anti-Clinton question­able Internet reporting of the gossip­grabbing Matt Drudge to the full assault of Democratic loyalists like political strategist James Carville. 
Thosn who, for the most part, are n~a­sonable, middle-of-the-road types or trainod impartial reporters have gener­ally agreed on several facts. One, Attorney General Janet Heno's quick approval to expand Starr's investigation did not give credibility to any of thn charges. Rather, she expedited matters by avoiding the lengthy process of creat­ing a new independent prosecutor's office. 
Heno was initially presented with sketchy, yet wildly astonishing informa­tion. Given the possibility that witnesses had documents as well as tapes of White House personnel who elaimed that the President and his friends committed per­jury and obstruction ofjustice, Heno had no ehoiee but to expand Starr's scope of investigation. No reasonable law enli1reement ol'lieial would ignore such potentially damaging evidence or delay its examination. 
A second generally accepted given is that Starr may not be as mueh of the crusading Clinton foe that some contend. Starr is so deliberate in his conduct that conservative marauders dose to his operation (as well as those dose to the Jones suit) don't trust him to effectively proceed in a manner that would be polit­ically expedient to them. These zealots are after the person, not the erime. 
the White I louse or from long-time 
Clinton friend, attorrwy Vernon Jordan. 
Observers anticipate that despite the limited immunity given to L(1Wis, slw may eventually face obstruction ol'jus­tice charges aftnr she completes hnr three days of grueling testimony bnfore the grand jury. Tho limitncl immunity granted to her only protects Lewis from using her own testimony as nvidence. If Tripp recorded those conference conver­sations, Starr and the grand jury can use those tapes as evidnnce against both Lewis and Lewinsky. 
What most hurts mother and daughtPr are the reportml referenees both have made on tape about rationalizing how they could tell lies. Lnwinsky has said that shn has "lied throughout her entirn )if(1." ller motlwr does not see the harm in denying certain aspects of the ease. The family crndibility will be sornly test­ed in the wneks to come. 
Ultimately, the answer to the many questions posnd in this matter may rest on the credibility of a star-struck young woman and her cavalier mother. It is not inconceivable that the manipulative tap­ing by Tripp. in an ell'ort to discredit the President, may only damage Lewinsky and Lewis. The unfortunate aspect of tlw entire episode is that tlw reckless man­ner in which most of the details have come to light will undoubtedly hurt inno­cent people. Could we someday see the Clintons suing for damages when they return to their private lives'? Now that would keep the Georgetown alumni net­work buzzing at halftime for many sea­sons to eomo. 
Gary J. Caruso. Notre Dame '73, worked at the U.S. /louse of Representatives for 18 years and for the International Union ofHlectronics Workers (lUI?) in Washington. IJ. C. /lis column appears every other Friday. and his Internet address is dchottline@hot­mail.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 


VIEWPOINT

Friday, February 13, 1998 page 11 
• lETIERS TO THE EDITOR • CHICKEN SOUP fOR THE OBSERVER 
Calling all 
Liberals to 
Show Hearts 
Am I the only one who believes that a woman still has the right to choose what she does with her body? That abortion is not any more wrong than using a condom or the pill, because the only differ­ence between the two methods is a matter of time? That one would be a hypocrite to concede that one way is better than another? To ever take this right away, before or after fertilization, is just plain wrong for women who do not want, are not ready, or cannot afford to have a baby. 
Am I the only one who feels that welfare is a nec­essary evil in our society and that instead of cutting back on welfare we should instead expand it even more? That until there is a world with no deadbeat dads and good child care alternatives for poor sin­gle mothers who want to work, this alternative is th~ only option and therefore should be expanded to Improve these people's quality of living and envi­ronment? 
Am I the only one who thinks affirmative action programs are the greatest thing for the advance­ment of minorities since the elimination of slavery? That to say one's environment does not hinder or help because we are all given the same abilities is ridiculous? To claim that a poor man growing up in a ghetto surrounded by drugs and violence and poor schools has an equal chance of succeeding as ~e-an upper class, Notre Dame student-is just Ignorant. In order to "overcome," sometimes people need a little from those on top. 
Am I alone in thinking that illegal immigrants are a good thing for America and these things could only be better if we could legalize all of them? That a state like California could even consider not edu­cating or providing health care to immigrants to save money has put back the human race thou­sands of years. That people such as Pat Buchanan really believe in their hearts that a wall on the Mexic~n border is the answer to saving America, when It would only really be keeping out another beautiful heritage that makes up our melting pot as much as any European? 
Am I alone? 
Are there any other liberal democrats here at 
Notre Dame? 
I ~ean there is not another way to go, if you are Chnstian and believe in helping people. If you are out there, and I know you are, speak up. We do not have to be repressed by the dominant popular, though wrong, republican views held widely on this campus. 
Bob Glynn Sophomore, Morrissey Manor 
I do not wish to carry the issue much longer than needed, but Laura Petellc's Feb. 6 Inside Column also drew a reac.. tion from me. Until I read the · responses of Mark Luczak and Gabe Bosslet in in the Feb. 9 issue, l did not feel the need tQ respond. However, I agree with both men and thought it would be nice to hear from a female point of view. 
When I read Ms. Petelle's col~ umn, my first thought was that she had a bad relationship experience (who hasn't?) and was trying to find the humor in it. However, if the column truly reflects her views, and she real­ly is on a self-inflicted hoy hia­tus, then I can see problems. As Mr. Luczak said, "gender rela­tions is about learning from experience.. " If Ms. Petelle is avoiding these experiences to keep from getting hurt, then she will never truly learn. 
1know that there ate men 
out there who do not seem fit '" for relationships. but I can say ... the same of many women. How can they learn without experi~fiffli 
~;:.;\. 

February 12, 1998 
ence? 
ships,.I and have times.·· 
tb~ttgb
time, 
Republicans Call for Moral Overhaul 
The No~re Dame College Republicans are pro­foundly disturbed by the current Clinton sex scan­dal, not so much because of its reflection on the President, but because of what it reveals about the American people. We would like to address how the toleration of Clinton's behavior leaves us gravely certain that the United States desperately needs a moral overhaul. 
Since the beginning of the media circus around Mo?ica Lewinsky, President Clinton's approval ratmgs have risen to their highest levels. Guests on mainstre_am talk shows advertise their support for the Prestdent. Meanwhile, an article published on Feb. 3 in The New York Times concurred in its interpretation of the national mood, quoting citi­zens defending Clinton's right to privacy and denying the president's possible role as a moral le~der. These individuals were more occupied wtth the state of America's economy than the state of its morality. 
C_linton seized on this by delivering a State of the Umon address full of good financial cheer, neglecting to mention that he has only left the economy alone. This idea is of little importance to Americans like the cabbie reported to The New York Times as stating: "Look, we're the only superpower left on the earth. We've got money in our pockets. Who cares?" Such attitudes deeply concern us. Declared one member of our club, "I am ashamed to be a part of this society." 
We wonder how other nations now look upon us, but perhaps more dangerous is Clinton's influ­ence at home. Kids dream about being President whe_n _they grow up. We should hope that someone so VISible and so admired would be a model citi­zen who exemplifies American ideals, including strong moral ideals. In our highest office, the most powerful position in the world, we should place someone whom we would strive to imitate some­one who is not your average American, bu't a great American. 
Shame on those who say that Clinton can do whatever splashed all over their classrooms and televisions as a champion of children and educa­tion. 
Clinton has been taking a lot of abuse, yet the 
blame must be shared with society. Now, 
Americans across the political spectrum face an 
opportunity for redemption. It is time to make a 
deci~ive stat_ement about our values by holding 
Prestdent Chnton accountable for his actions in 
office. 
Laura S. Antkowiak President, Notre Dame College Republicans February l 0, 1998 

stronger; J truly lleU.evie tlllat when l do find meantto be much more specialand appreci:;;, ated because of my past .e~petb ences. In the. end, all the pain I have experienced will be com­pensated many times ovelj,.,, 
As for her classificationl.lt 
Notre Dame men, I shm:ild'r introduce her to ~om,e. ofIQ.Y ·· male friends. I have often ·· that my male .friends ar(l nicest guys I many do not Petelle's cat,egortes couple to for relath~nship
find their .....,.,d ,,..,..,,P><I~~:.;;;; worthwhile. them? On(} of briefly fresh ·n,.,., , ...,.•.,~.·· ~····~·•~­
Dedicated to 
the Ones I Love 
Valentine's Day is a day about love, in all of its shapes and forms. Our happiness on Feb. 14 should not be dictated by cupid's arrows. This holiday should not be devoted solely to starry-eyed lovers. Rather, Valentine's Day is the perfect opportunity to celebrat_e ALL of the meaningful relationships we s~are w1~h people we love, romantically and other­wise. Thmk about those in your life that you love and those that love you. The familiar faces who are there for you through everything, the soldiers who stand behind you as you fight your fiercest battles, and the hands holding yours when you're too afraid to go on. Tomorrow is about them, too. 
Jaclyn Villano 
We all have people in our lives that we care about and we hope that they know how much they mean t~ us. But how often do we really tell them? Sometimes it ta~es a tragedy, like the sad and untimely death of J?stm Brumbaugh, to remind us that life is very pre­cwus and far too short. I can't think of a better way to honor this Valentine's Day than to say "I love you" to anyone and everyone who deserves to hear it. 
That is why I am dedicating the remainder of this column to writing a valentine that is long overdue. This one is for my friends, the one who have seen me at my best, and my worst. These are people who are the "chicken soup" for my soul, and they help make Notre Dame the special place that is is to me. 
D~ar .valentines (you know who you are!), 
It s difficult for me to remember a time when you were not a part of my life, but I know that such a time e.xisted. After all, it wasn't so long ago that we met. I m not sure how I managed without you for so long, but I know that I couldn't live without you now i~ I tried. You have become such a huge part of my hfe that I can no longer imagine who I would be without you. 
Sometimes I am amazed at how close we are con­sidering our endless differences. We hail from ~very corner of the country, as well as a few spots in between. We look, talk, act, think, and feel different­ly about everything from music to men. But some­how we've managed to find the common thread that binds us together. For in our hearts, we are all the same: Thank you for opening my mind to new per­spectl.ves and for constantly challenging me to examme my own. 
. We've seen each other through some pretty tough times -losses of loved ones, devastating heartaches, and other disappointments. I have l~arned from you that no one has to be strong all the time. Thank you for all the times you let me lean and for being my strength when I had none of my own left. 
Some .of my_favorite. memories are of us doing crazy, s~lly thmgs, or J~st being together. Thank you for playmg freeze tag m the snow, and for running ~round the second floor of the 'Brare wearing chem­Istry go?gles and car.rying water guns. Thank you for cuttmg the occasiOnal 8:30 a.m. class with me on Friday mornings to listen to Jimmy Buffet and go to breakfast. Thank you for the midnight runs to the Grotto and for all the countless late-night chats. 
There are so many times when my faith begins to waver, and you restore it unknowingly. You are my da~ly reminders that God knows exactly what He is domg. I have never met people with such big hearts who are willing to give their love to others so self­lessly and courageously. To paraphrase what one of you recently told me, each of you deserves to wear a monogram jacket around your heart. 
Tomorrow is Valentine's Day. My doorstep may 
n?t be lined wi~h roses when I awake, but my day 
will be filled wtth laughter and friendship because of 
you. I couldn't ask for anything else. 
In closing, I think Mikey put it best in "Goonies" 
when he said: 
"This is our time, guys. Our time." 
And I'm having the time of my life. 
Jaclyn Villano is a sophomore Arts and Letters 
major who celebrates all holidays with compassion 
and meaning. Her column appears every other 
Friday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of 
the author and not necessarily those of The 
Observer. 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-~--­
:ACCENT

page 12 Friday, February 13, 1998 

armts an 





By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
Accent Writer 
Saturday marks the beginning of the annual sophomore celebration of all that is literary called, oddly enough, The Sophomore Literary Festival. Previous years have seen Tom Clancy, Mark Leyner, Alistair Macleod and other famous writers impart their years of expe­rience (and sometimes unconventional ideas) to willing students of literature. This year's festivial includes two short story writers, five student readers, two poets and a director. 
Everyday will feature a reading at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall and a workshop in the Dooley Room of LaFortune Student Center at 2 p.m. that same day. The schedule of events for this year's festival is as follows: 
Saturday, Feb. 14 -Amy Hempel 
This short story writer has written books of novellas and short fiction that have given her status as one of the top writers of the genre. Her most recent work, 'Tumbling Home," pub­lished in 1997 has received glowing critical reviews. In a recent article about her visit to Brown University, students praised her ability to set aside time to focus her comments on voice and tone. 
Sunday, Feb. 15-Doug Liman 
The dirnctor of the ultra-hip, pop culture romp, ''Swingers" will give a talk about inde­pendant filmmaking and his own brand of filmmaking, which he calls, "guerilla fimmak­ing." "Swingers," an independant film sucess story, was Liman's first feature on which he served as both director and director of photography. 
Monday, Feb. 16-George Elliot Clarke 
This Afri-Canadian poet, formerly of Ottawa, Ontario, who currently lives in Durham, N.C., incorporates a romantic style with everyday language and Black and Canadian cul­ture. His most recent book of poetry is "Whylah Falls." 
Tuesday, Feb. 17 -Student Readings 
Every year, a few brave students stand and deliver in the name of literary greatness. This year's crop includes Thomas Coyne, a graduate student; Mary Margaret Nussbaum, a fresh­man from Howard; Jenny Shank, a sophomore from Pasquerilla East; David Griffith, an off­campus senior; and Nathan Moore, a sophomore from Siegfried. 
Wednesday, Feb. 18-Campbell McGrath 
This poet from Chicago writes explosive verse about the American experience. His latest works are "American Noise" and "Spring Comes to Chieago." He is one of the most up-and­coming ponts of his generation. 
Thursday, Feb. 19 -Harlan Ellison 
This short story writer is one of the best living writers today. He has written 64 books of short stories -close to 1, 700 stories in all. IIis works have been translated into 26 lan­guages. lie has also written a work of interactive fiction called, "I Have No Mouth and I Must Scream." Among his most innuential stories are "Slippage," "Angry Candy" and "Death bird Stories." 
I. VICTORIA'IIICRIT 
2. A )'IAR'IIUBICRIPTIOM TO THI OBIIRVIR 
J. PRIIIIMIOR BAR ~I~BIRIHIP 
4. IO~IOMI TO ICRAPI THIICI OFF THI WIMDIHIILD IN THI ~ORMIMG S A RO~AMTIC GITAWA~ FOR TWO ... TO THI BEACOM BOWL 
6. 
DIMMER AT CJ'I 

7. 
A PROFIIIIOMAL BACK ~AIIAGI 8. 4 KITTEN MA~ID WAFFL£1 


9. 
THE BACKITRIIT BOYI CD 

10. 
ROlli, CAMD~, DIMMER, A CARD ... ANYTHING ... IVIM AM IYR DATI 


:ACCENT

Friday, February 13, 1998 page 13 

' 
' 
'

atur 



n
~>{ 


By RACHEL TORRES 
Saint Mary's Accent Editor 

It's beei1 almost a year in the making. This weekend, Saint Mary's College will host its annual Sophomore Parents' Weekend. 
"Forever Your Girl" is the theme that will prevail over the scheduled events for sopho­mores and their parents. From the parents' arrival Friday night to the continental break­fast Sunday morning, Saint Mary's sophomores will have the whole weekend to spend quality time with their parents. 
Fliers were sent home to the sophomore parents to let them know the event was com­ing, which helped stir up initial excitement. 
"My parents were excited about it, so that made me more excited about it, too." said sophomore Bridget Heffernan. "Since I'm one of five kids, this is one of the only times I'll have to spend with my parents alone," Heffernan added. 
Along with a committee of 14, sophomore Erin Hall assumed the responsibility of plan­ning the event. "It's going to be a very exciting weekend. I know we worked very hard on it, and it should be a lot of fun," she said. 
Despite the fact that attendance at SPW has been on the decline the past few years, this year saw a sharp rise in the number of students and parents who will participate. "We sold 152 tickets to sophomores and are expecting a total of 450 students and par­ents to participate in the weekend," said Hall. For $90, students purchased tickets for themselves and two parents to participate in all of the activities. 
Schedule of Events 
Friday-Parents arrive 
Saturday-10 a.m.-12 p.m. Academic Open House in LeMans Lobby. Professors from all departments will be on hand to meet with parents and students. 
Lunch 
2 p.m. -Basketball game in Angela Athletic Facility SMC vs. Wheaton College 
2 p.m. -4 p.m. -Social event: Coffee, tea, cookies, and games in Haggar Parlor 
4:30 p.m. -Sophomore class mass in Church of Loretto 
7 p.m. -1 a.m. -Dinner-dance at the Century Center. Sit-down dinner, welcome reception with speech by President Eldred and class president Nancy Midden 
Sunday-8 a.m. -11 a.m. continental breakfast in Stapleton Lounge 


l. VICTORIA'IIICRIT 
1. VICTORIA'IIIC.RIT J.\ODIL 
3. 
PIZZA AND CHAJ.\PAGMI 

4. 
A COPY OF THE LATIIT JOHN WOO FILJ.\ 


5 . BEACOM BOWL 
6. VIDEO GAJ.\11, VIDEO GAJ.\11, AND J.\ORI VIDEO GAJ.\11 
f. A PROFIIIIOMAL J.\AIIAGI 
8. 
ANYTHING /TAR WARI 

9. 
GUMI AND ROlli lO.IOJ.\IOMI WITH WHOJ.\ TO CELEBRATE VALIMTIMI'I DAY 


.... 
page 14 
• NFL 
Young signs record contract with 49ers 
Associated Press 
Steve Young signed a record eontraet on Thursday that made the San Francisco 49ers happy, too. 
On the eve of the NFL's two­mpnth free-agent signing peri­lid, Young remained the league's highest paid player with a $49.175 million, six-year deal. The contract is more salary-cap friendly than Young's old $45 million, six­year deal. which the 49ers tore up. 
Garrison llearst signed a five­year, $15.1 million contract. 
.. Hearst, the 49ers' first 1,000­yard rusher in five years, received a $3.25 million signing bonus. Free agents can bngin signing with other teams on Friday. Among other signings Thursday, the Minne-sota Vikings made Todd Steussie the highest-paid offensive lineman in NFL history with a $22 mil­lion, five-year contract: Brian Mitchell became the highest­paid kick return specialist with an $8.4 million. five-year deal with the Washington Hedskins: and the New England Patriots signed All-Pro defensive line­man Bruce Armstrong and defensive end Willie McGinest. The New York Giants released tight end Aaron Pierce, waived tight end Brandon Jessie and center Marc Lamb, and rewrote wide receiver Chris 
Calloway's contract. 
Young, 36, had his annual average salary increase $700,000 to $8.2 million and he gets a $7.5 million signing bonus. The bonus can be pro­rated against the cap during the life of the contract, softening the impact on the team's player payroll. 
"Obviously, this has the effect of relieving some of the 49ers cap problems," said Young's agent, Leigh Steinberg. "And it also is-by far the largest pack­age in NFL history, averaging $8.2 million." 
Under his new contract, Young will have a 1998 cap fig­ure of $3.5 million, compared to $10 million under the previous deal. 
In other moves, the Detroit Lions signed wide receiver Johnnie Morton and tackle Ray Hoberts, while the Chicago Bears signed defensive tackle Jim Flanigan and free safety John Mangum. 
The Buffalo Bills designated Ted Washington as their fran­chise player, and the nose tack­le threatened to sit out the first 1 0 games of the season. The franchise designation guaran­tees Washington, 29, a raise but efTectively makes him a restrict­ed free agent. 
Defensive end John Copeland also will be shopping around after the Cincinnati Bengals gave him the franchise designa­tion. 
The Observer • SPORTS 
CHICAGO 
Scottie Pippen, who has been relatively quiet since his trade demand earlier this sea­son, now says he'd prefer to play next season on the West Coast. 
The Chicago Bulls star, who returned to theteam Jan. 10 after missing 35 games while recovering from foot surgery, said in November he wanted to be traded and would never play for the Bulls again, 
Since rejoining the team, Pippen, who will be a free agent after the season, has said little about his future and even hinted that he might come back to Chicago. 
But before the Bulls beat the Charlotte Hornets in Charlotte on Wednesday night, Pippen said he didn't expect to return.' 
"Not at this date and time," he said. 
''I want to go play probably on the West Coast. Right now, that's what I'm learning towards. lt's a different type of game out there. It's an open-court game, it's a lot more up-and-down game. It's much more fun to play in. The East is more of a half~court game." 
The Bulls future became a big topic again last week when general manager Jerry Krause said the team wanted Michael Jordan to return next 
Friday, February 13, 1998 
&way talk trades 
season but that he would have 
•6,.todo sowithout coac~ P~il 'Jackson because th1s 1s Jackson's imal year. 
Jordan said again he'd retire if Jackson isn't back. Bulls chairman Jerry Reinsdorf then released a statement Tuesday night, say­ing all the talk about retire­ments, replacements and the future wao:; premature. 
Pippen said if the Bulls win their sixth title this decade, it wouldn't influence his deci­sion on whether to return. 
"It's not going to matter one way or the other. To be able to finish my career as a Chicago Bull with another championship would be won­derful," he said. 
"It would be great to see the team stay together, but (man­agement) has been talking about dismantling this team, so it should be fairly easy to leave." 
Pippen's statements come one week before the NBA's trading deadline. 
DOD 
ORLANDO, Fla. 
Penny Hardaway, the sub­ject of trade talks with several NBA teams, reiterated Thursday that he doesn't want to leave. the Orlando Magic ­now, or in the future, 
The four"time All-Star will become a tree agent after next season but insists he does not intend to follow in the foot­
:t§Y 
steps of Shaquille O'Neal, who left for the Los Angeles Lakers in a bitter split in 1996. 
Hardaway, discussed Wednesday in an aborted three-way deal also involving the New Jersey Nets and Toronto Raptors. said the one stipulation he has for remain­ing with the Magic for the rest of his career is that the team pursue and sign a top free agent this summer. 
"I know the weight of the franchise is on my shoulders. I know if I leave, this franchise is going down. If that hap­pened, I couldn't live with myself," he said. 
"When does it come to a point where they believe an athlete when he says he want.<> to stay? Or do you just go ahead and trade him because you think, it's going to happen again like Shaquille." 
The proposed blockbuster deal that hit a snag Wednesday would have sent Hardaway to the Nets, who would have shipped Kendall Gill and Sam Cassell to Toronto. 
The Magic would have received Damon Stoudamire and Walt Williams from the Raptors but were believed to be talking to the Portland Trail Blazers about sending Stoudamire there because team officials had been unable to get a commitment that the soon-to-be free agent would re-sign later this year. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at rhe Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­

Classifieds sifieds is 3p.m. All classitleds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOP­NEED AN APT FOR Michiana Paintball at Scottsdale Hey -did you know ... To the Yawner-MENT CENTER SUMMER SCHOOL? Mall. Now open for indoor/outdoor Just wanted you to know that I 
NOTICES 

The Early Childhood Development COLLEGE PARK-2 BDRM play. Students w/Nd-SMC ID • 1/2 We're open early. late, and week· think you're wonderful! 
Center at Notre Dame, located at CALL KATE· 243·9309 price field fee. ends for your convenience! Love, Hear ye, hear ye: My sweetest love 18680 Bulla Road, is currently 291-2540. 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 Evita is here for the weekend accepting applications from college 2-6 BDRM HOMES.FURN. NEAR LaFortune Student Center 
students for part time positions. The CAMPUS.AVAIL. NOW & ADOPTION: Hugs, daisies and Phone 631-COPY R.R.B.· The last 3 months have NEED HELP DOING YOUR hours vary, including 7:30 • 9:00 FALL.272-6551 babbling brooks in summer. been the greatest. I Love You! TAXES, BUT DON'T WANT TO GO a.m. MTWThF and Snuggles, skisuits and a toasty fire­that orange sweater ... it is SO Happy Valentines Day! ANYWHERE FOR THE HELP? I 11:15 a.m.-1:05 p.m. TIH. If you ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR place in winter. Love and joy for GREAT Love, J.M.G. WILL COME TO YOU! are interested in applying, please JPW AND OTHER ND-SMC your baby all year long. Happy. car­Call Shane at 243-5638 contact Thayer Kramer. Program EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAM· ing professional couple would love you WILL get it back. J-Even though you are a smelly ani· 
Director. at 631·3344 for more infor· PUS-5 MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 to provide a new born with love, joy mal, I love you anyway. 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 mation and an application. MIN. WALK. 243-0658. and security. Call Ed and Ellen at 1· maybe. Happy V-Day LaFortune Student Center 800-484-7011 Pin #4523 ·E WE'RE OPEN EARLY. LATE. ALL SIZE HOMES we might have to rethink the vest, 
AND WEEKENDS!!! Lost and Found CLOSE TO CAMPUS ADOPTION IS LOVE though Congratulations Editor-In-Chief, Mon -Thur 7:30am • Midnight 232-2595 Happily married ND Alumni couple, I thought that there was no bet· Fri 7:30am -7:00pm 'REWARD' for return of thin gold with adopted 3 year old daughter, campaigning at Dillon freshman ter time than Valentine's Day to tell Sat Noon -6:00pm wedding ring lost in Rockne weight wants to shower new baby with parties? you how wonderful I think you are.
FOR SALE

Sun Noon -Midnight room. Please call Peter @282-love. Artistic full-time mom. athletic Despite all the ups and downs CALL 631-COPY 2449. lawyer dad, and a sister to play they took all the cheese, but at least and sacrifices we have had. I have PC-CDROM games $10·25; with. Friends on the swingset, trips we got to play in the mud no regrets. I admire so many things Found-Silver Ring in Hayes-Healy Hohner Aco.GUITAR $175/best. to the zoo, grandma, play groups, about you -I can only name a few.
WANTED 

Restroom. Call 631·8461 to identify. 634-1926 lullabies, too. This is a home where Your integrity. your character. 
Debbie wishes come true. We'd like to get HAPPY BIRTHDAY KATIE!I!! your caring nature, your dedication ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT M: You can always make love out to know you. Call Shawn & Meg 21, and I am so jealous. to the things you love ... Through -Fishing industry. Excellent earn­Lost-of nothing at all. -B 800·767-4257. Ready for your shots of Dr. your work at The Observer you ings & benefits potential. 14K Gold pinkie ring. Call Debbie. Legal/Medical/Allowable exp. paid. Pepper? have set an example of what it Male/Female. No experience nec­631·8461 means to be truely passionate 
I TICKETS I

essary. Ask us how! 517-324-3116 I'll love you with every beat of my Love, Heather about something. You have spent ext. A55841 heart-I swear. endless hours and sleepless nights 
.... 
FOR RENT 
I Looking forward to a great time w/u P.S. But it is still wonky when you to serve this University, never ask· 

"------------'· @ the concert, sweets. hold it. ing for anything in return. You give NATIONAL PARK EMPLOYMENT· Sorry-no room left in my heart. My LET'S GET WET! IRISH CON­of yourself in so many unselfish Discover how to work in America's main man Mike has it all. NECTION, FESTIVITIES BEGIN @ ways. I just wanted to say I appreci­
PERSONAL

Parks, Forests & Wildlife Preserves. 10 PM ate and love these things about Competitive wages + bonuses! BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY CONGRATS KRUPA!!! you. Seasonal/year·round. For informa· 219-291-7153 CATERING·CALL FAZOLI'S like you weren't going to get it. Even though things are difficult tion, call: 517-324-3111 Ext. 277-4008 between us at times. alii need is for N55842 House For Rent STOMPER BOB AND SKALCOHO· you to look at me with your sincere 
Two Blocks From Campus Pass counterfeit $ =YOU break the LIKS TONIGHT @ THE IRISH I held a snake in the office. I am so eyes to know that somehow things 
4·5 Bedroom. Dishwasher. law. CONNECTION. 10 PM SHOW. impressed with myself. will work between us. You are not Tutor needed to work with high Washer/Dryer, Large Backyard and Forge a check =YOU break the only my boyfriend but my best school student preparing forGED. Off Street Parking. law. If you get to be from the Planet friend and someone I know I can Areas to review are govt, algebra. June 98 for Summer. August for Use a fake drivers license = BAR Shugah, I get to be from the planet always count on. We have a bond 
geometry. & writing. Prefer tutor to Fall. FREE MONITORED SECURI­breaks the law? Attention All Off-Campus Juniors Nutra-Sweet. that cannot be easily broken. You come to house. but student can TY SYSTEM! Go Figure! and Seniors Attending JPW '98 have gone through so many things drive to tutor. Call 272·8235. Call289-4712 You are invited to a luncheon at with me and positively affected me
VALENTINES 

.. 
MODELS/DANCERS WANTED Alumni Senior Club on Saturday, in so many ways that a part of you 98'-99' yr. 6 bedrm. 2-car gar. please call 219-271-0633 February 21, 1998 from 12:30 to will always remain with me. No mat­sand V-ball ct. washer/dryer. 2:00pm. Bring your parents and Tenille-ter where our future paths may take I don't want anything else now that I 1628 Portage Av. 234-3831 enjoy lunch with your friends! Thanks for your patience. I love us, the love that we share will have you. Mike. 273-0482 SABOR LATINO you. always remain in my heart. Brad Tenille FURN. 1 BDRM APT .. AIR, PRI· Friday 2 1 13 esc P.S. I know I don't have the poetic VATE KITCHEN, ENTRANCE, 9 pm -11 pm Looking for a unique gift for your TO MY SEXY EXPLORER -talent that you have. but it is a Coming Back for Summer School? LAUNDRY. PHONE, UTILITIES valentine? EVEN THOUGH WE MAY BE start!! We're looking for 2 Roommates INCLUDED $400/MO, ROOM Wed. 2 I 18 Club Landing Bring in your favorite pictures and FAR APART. YOU ARE 
Call Kristin x2512 $200/MO. 9 pm-1 am we'll create a custom color calendar ALWAYS IN MY HEART. M.· 
5 rides needed home to Maryland Spr. Break. If you can provide any or all call Sarah x4003 
272-0615. 
ROOM $128+util Share house w/ grad stu Good neighborhd 280­5274 
Coming soon: the second CD ! SABOR LATINO 
for your sweetie. Same day turn­around. Any twelve month combi­nation. 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 
LaFortune Student Center -I LOVE YOU BABY 
Happy Valentine's Day Beibo! You're the love of my life. Rick Are you going to be my valentine, or does the honor go to John? 
Love, H. 


page 15

Friday, February 13, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS "I feel that every time I go
• SWIMMING 
into the game that I have to do
Woinen's 
well," said Green. "When I go out there, my number-one job
continued from page 24

Swimmers enter home stretch 
is to play defense and 

ByMATTYUNG 
Sports Writer 
The light at the end of the tun­nel is approaching for the Notre Dame men's swimming team. After tomorrow's 2 p.m. dual mnet at Roll's Aquatic Center against Wiseonsin-Milwaukee, the Irish will make final prepa­rations for the season's pinnacle -the Big East Championships. 
The Irish go into Saturday's affair with a 10-1 record, a seven-dual-meet win streak, and an opportunity to record their best season since 1990. Tomorrow's meet will mark the beginning of the end of a anoth­er swimming year. 
Wisconsin-Milwaukee (8-3), 
with a live-dual-meet win streak 
is prepared for a collision with 
the Irish. Although the past is 
not always indicative of the 
future, the best bet is still on 
Notre Dame. The Irish hold a 7­Championships and the chance
0 all-time advantage against 
to improve on last year's sev-UWM and regularly post faster enth place finish, but he knowstimes than UWM's season bests. 
not to look too far into the
A UWM win would require a 
future.

stellar performance on its part "We train to peak at the Bigand a sub-par Irish outing. 
E~st Champio!lships, but also
Head coach Tim Welsh is wtth a commttment to doingnxcited for the Big East 


}!OlA .f\R6 RESTJN~ ATOP Tt-16. P6De5L-:AL JN M}! t-leART. 3lAST ONe FLeeTJNC\ ~LJMPSe OF }!OlAR t-leAVeNL}! FAC6 JS MORe Tt-IAN AN\! ONe MAN DeSERVes. J'M FOReVeR eNTRANCeD B}! 
}!OlAR BeAUT}!. 
Ill 
:1: 
1­
C
ome join the 
Application~ 

being accept~d· · 
positions at the .................. 
Club for the 1998-99 
year. You may pick up 
Student Activities, 3I 5 Laf.--....t·~,....., 

well at each week's meet " he said. ' 
If the training works as planned, this week's times will be quite competitive, it will be a productive meet, and the Irish will get ready for the Big East Championships. 
went on a 11-2 run to close out the half and give the team a 37-19lead going into the locker room. 
"I think our strength this year is our balance," McGraw said. "We've got six people who have led the team in scor­ing on different occasions. Last year, we were a two-man team. It's a great thing, but it's also one of our weakness­es, because we haven't had that one person consistently step up every single game." 
The Irish started off the sec­
ond half strong, using a 
Siemon layup to start a 6-0 
run. It took more than three 
minutes for the Red Storm to 
get on the board with a nine­
foot jumper from Tanya 
Mrdjen. This was immediately 
followed by a three-point play 
from junior Ebony Dickinson, 
cutting the lead to 43-23. 
But, once again, Green gave 
the Irish the burst they need­
ed. After Dickenson hit her 
shot from the charity stripe, 
Green drove the length of the 
court for a layup, starting an 
11-0 run over the next three 
minutes to push their lead 
past 30 points. 
rebound, and everything else is a bonus. I feel every game I have to go out there and play hard for the team and myself." 
While the SJU defense was able to prevent the game from getting completely out of hand, its offense wasn't able to bring the Red Storm back into the game. 
After cutting the lead to 62­35, Hutchinson shot a trey to put the game out of reach. The Irish had led by as many as 36 points with 1:03 to go, before a few well-placed shots from Mrjden gave SJU a few more points to end the game. 
Green finished the game with 13 points, tied with Riley as the top scorers. Riley fin­ished with 10 rebounds for her sixth double-double of the season. McMillen also fin­ished in double figures, scor­ing 11 points in 28 minutes of work. Peirick finished with five points and 10 assists, moving her into second place on Notre Dame's assists list. As a team, the Irish shot 52.9 percent from the field and went 4-for-13 from beyond the 
arc. 
On the other end of the spectrum, the Red Storm drop their third straight game on one of their poorest outings of the season. Dickenson was the only player to reach dou­ble figures, scoring 11 points while grabbing five boards. Three St. John's players fouled out in the second half. with Gunnells earning hers with 5:39 left in the game. With the loss, SJU falls to 5-17 on the season and 3-11 in the conference. 
With the victory, Notre Dame extends its horne win­ning streak to seven games, while moving up to 9-5 in con­ference play. 
Next up for the Irish is a Sunday afternoon matchup against Pittsburgh with Ivey's status still up in the air. 
"She's going to be question­able for Sunday," said McGraw. "After that it's going to be day-to-day." 
However, Green still hopes her teammate is able to return to the starting lineup when the Panthers come to the Joyce Center. 
"I hope Niele's ready to go," she said. "I sort of like coming off the bench now. I kind of like being a little sparkplug." 


'· 
--------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
WINTER OLYMPICS IN 
jAPAN 

Crazy with joy: 
Adne 
Sondral snags gold 
Sondmf 
claimed Norway's 24th 
gold NAGANO, Japan
medal. 
The Dutch speedskaters arc used to racing week­end after weekend, the 
competition fierce in that icc-loving 
nation. 

A d n e Sondra! took a different approach. The Norwegian spent his sea­son building toward one event: the 
Winter Olympics. lin didn't necessarily care about results, just as long as he was primed for the Nagano c;ames. 
"It really went as planned this sea­son," Sondra! said. "I concentrated on just a few races. I didn't have to skate really well every day." 
Talk about peaking at the right time. Sondra! added another golden chapter to Norway's specdskating his­tory with a world record in the 1,500 meters Thursday, holding off the heavily favored Dutch. 
As in the men's 5,000, all three medalists broke the previous world record, but it was Sondra! who went fastest. The Dutch finished 2-3-4, with Ids Postma and Rintje Ritsma taking silver and bronze, but they won't get their expected gold-medal sweep of the distance events after Gianni Homme's victory in the 5,000. 
"We knew he was preparing really well for these Olympic Games and that he could be really dangerous," Ritsma said of Sondra!. 
The Norwegian improved on his previous best time in the 1,500 by more than 1 1/2 seconds, circling the 
M-Wave  oval  in  1:47.87  to  break  
Ritsma's  2-mont h-old  record  of  
1:48.88.  

As he streaked across the line, the only skater to eclipse 29 seconds on the final 400-meter lap, the 26-year­old Sondra! thrust both arms in the air and yelled in delight. He gave Norway its 24th gold medal and 76th overall medal in men's speedskating -both more than any other country can claim. 
Postma, skating in the next-to-last heat along with the Norwegian, took silver in 1:48.13. Ritsma skated last but couldn't match either time, set­tling for bronze at 1:48.52. 
Hitsma, considered the world's best all-around skater, has yet to win Olympic gold and has suffered partic­ular heartbreak in the 1,500, manag­ing silver, bronze and a fourth-place finish in three Olympic races. 
"My race was not really bad," Ritsma said. "But I had to compete the whole race alone and not against someone. I saw Kevin Overland (his heat partner, who finished a distant 20th) only on the lirst lap and then he was gone. That's too bad. I had to do it alone and that's hard." 
Sondra! won silver in the 1,500 at Albertville and was fourth in the event at Lillehammer, both times watching countryman Johann Olav Koss cap­ture the gold medal. This time, Koss was watching from a TV booth as Sondra! finally reached the top step of the podium. 
''I've been a big talent, I've been a big loser, I've been a big second," said Sondra!, who got a hug from Koss after the race. 
"Now, I'm a winner." 
The Americans have yet to win any­thing at the M-Wave. KC Boutiette of Tacoma, Wash., was one of 10 skaters who broke Koss' Olympic 1,500 record, but it was only good enough for fifth place. No other American fin­ished higher than 31st. 
• fiGURE SKATING 

Eldredge in third after short program 
Figure skaters prepare for long program 
Associated Press 

NAGANO, Japan 
Nobody cracked. Nobody did any­thing spectacular, either. Maybe they're saving it all for the big show­down. 
And what a show it could be. Ilya Kulik with his classleal style and strange costumes. Elvis Stojko with his crowd-pleasing, judge-irritating funkiness. T.odd Eldredge, with or without his quad, but definitely minus his Olympic blues. 
"I went out and skated well, and that's enough for me," said the five­time U.S. champion, who finished behind Kulik and Stojko in Thursday's men's figure skating short program. 
"If you make one mistake, you can basieally get the flight home tomor­row," he said. "It's real tough if you make a mistake in the short to do what you want to do here. And we all want to win it." 
Despite all of his titles and success, Eldredge has never really had that dumce. Given an injury bye to the 1992 Games because of a bad back, he was too out of shape to contend at Albertville. He fell on a simple double axel -a jump he could do in his sloep -and finished 1Oth. 
Worse was 1994. when he didn't even qualify after getting the flu at the Olympic trials. He nearly quit, then rededicated himself to the sport and his pursuit of an Olympic gold medal. 
But that old sinking feeling came rushing back during his warmups Thursday night when he missed axel after axeL Even his longtime coach, Richard Callaghan, was worried. 
So he and Eldredge went back· stage, went through the jumps and talked about all of the perfect short . programs Eldredge has done. 
And there are plenty. 
Then, when his name was called. he cruised around the ice and breathed deeply. As the strains of music for his new routine to ''Les Miserables" began, he looked straight ahead -and went for it 
His first jump was a triple axel­triple toe loop combination. And it was perfect. So was that double axel. 
"Not at all Uke Albertville," he s~:~.id, laughing. "That's:exactly what I was thinking when 1went into that double axel. This is nothing like Albertville." 
By the time he reached his foot· work section, Eldredge was smiling, playfully weaving his way across the ice. His spins, as usual, were superb. By the end of his final combination spin, he was going·so fast he was a blur. 
As he came to a stop, the crowd rose in a salute to his program and his perseverance. 
"Everybody always thinks of me as a serious skater. I wanted to go out and have a little fun out there and I did," Eldredge said. "I went out, I was aggressive and I made it happen." 
Not quite. Though three judges gave Eldredge their trrst-place votes, four went with Kulik and two went with Stojko. Six judges had Eldredge in third place, putting Stojko ahead on technical merit. 
One jump that Eldredge and his coach didn't talk about before the short program still looms as he approaches Saturday's free skate ..._ the quad. 
Kulik and Stojko regularly try ­and make -the four-turn jump that many see as crucial to a gold medal. But Eldredge has tried it only once in competition, at the U.S. champi­onships last month when he fell on the landing. He argues that the quad 
is just one part of the program, but 
be hasn't ruled it out for the free 
skate. 
Though Kulik won the short pro­gram, he didn't get any points for fashion. It was h(trd to. figllre out what statement he was trying to make with his black·and·flesh-col­ored art-deco ;..... some would call it ugly-costume, complete with filmy gray wings hanging off his arms. 
He w~s, IH>w~.ver. technically sound, landing all the required ele­ments, including a huge triple axel­triple toe combination to start his program. 
''I can do better," said Kulik, who beat Stojko and Eldredge at their last bead-to-head meeting at the Champions Series final in December. "But in this pressure. this was the best skating rcan show." 
Skating 22nd, almost 90 minutes after Ku1ik and Eldredge, Stojko said he gave it his best. The Canadian judge agreed, awarding him a 6.0 for artistry. But the other judges weren't nearly so kind. The British judge actually put him fourth, giving him a 
5.7 for technical merit and a 5.6 for artistry. 
"I just sort of laughed at the 5.7s because I thought they were sort of humorous," said Stojko, the 1994 sil­ver medalist and three-time world champion. 
"If the message is to change what l'm doing. I'm not going to," said Stojko, who wore a gold-trimmed black outfit and more gold around his neck -a medallion the size of a sil­ver dollar and a chunky eagle. "I just stick to my guns and what I think skating should be." 
That would be fast and powerfuL Ho opened with a difficult triple axel­triple toe loop jump combination, then moved quickly across the ice, practically running. to the frenetic drum beat of"The Lion." But his foot­work, though a crowd pleaser, was justbasic. 
•
ICS 

page 16 
• OlYMPIC UPDATES 
Austria's Maier loses control in downhill 
Associated Press 
IIAKUBA, .Japan 
Pre-race favorite IIermann Maier lost control on a turn, sailed about 30 yards through the air and crashed through two safety nets on the wind­swept men's downhill eoursc. The Austrian, who landed on his left shoul­der and back, came to a rest awk­wardly in the snow alongside the course after the spectacular crash. 
Maier did not appear to bn s1~riously injured, although he looked stunned for a few minutes before walking away and waving. Maier, who has dominated the World Cup circuit this season with 10 wins in :~0 events, was the fourth racer down the course Thursday. 
Maier lost control on an icy bend shortly before the Alpen jump, which officials altered minutes before the race because they fean~d the high winds would make that area unsafe. Maier flew sideways through the air, then tumbled through the orange safety nets before corning to rest. 
Defending world champion Bruno Kernen of Switzerland skied off the course at almost exactly the same spot nine racers later. and the next skier, Luca Cattaneo of Italy. slid sideways into the saftey netting. Kernen was not hurt, but the event was halted for several minutes as workers tended to Cattaneo. who injured his left leg and had to be helped oil' the slopes on a sled. A helicoptPr airlifted him off the mountain. Nicolas Burtin of France missed a gate at about the same spot. 
The race. which already had been postponed three times because of snow, rain and fog, was delayed 50 minutes Friday by wind that forced Olympic officials to alter the course because of safety considerations. 
IIMEDALS 
TABLE 
1998 Nagano Winter Olympics 
Thursday, Feb. 12 (22 total events) 
Nation G s 8 Tot 
Germany 4 4 4 12 Norway 3 3 3 9 Russia 4 3 0 7 Austria 0 2 4 6 Finland 2 1 2 5 United States 2 0 2 4 Netherlands 1 2 1 4 Italy 0 3 1 4 Japan 2 1 0 3 Canada 1 1 1 3 Switzerland 1 0 1 2 Czech Republic 0 1 1 2 Bulgaria 1 0 0 1 
France 1 0 0 1 
Ukraine 0 1 0 1 
Belarus 0 0 1 1 
Belgium 0 0 1 1 
G-Gold, S-Silver, 8-Bronze 
AP 

Friday, February 13, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
-
Men's 
continued from page 24 
Wyche, Martin Ingelsby, and the rest of the Notre Dame back-court to show some poise against the intense pressure of the Hurricane defense. 
"We're prepared for a very fast-paced game," said Williamson of Saturday's showdown in Florida. "They're really aggressive (with their press). We have to be on our toes whenever they press and just attack it." 
The overall significance of the contest was not lost on Williamson either. The Valentine's night battle with Miami will mark the second to last road game of the regular season for the Irish and they could certainly use a little assurance that they are capa­ble of winning on the road, especially as the Big East Tournament approaches. 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Shorin-Ryu Karate -Thissemester-long course meets in Rockne Room 219 on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 6 to 7:30p.m. You must register in advance at RecSports and the fee is $18. Call 1-8237. 
Jazz Dance -A Jazz Dance class will he· offered Saturdays and Tuesdays from 12 to 
1:30 p.m. (Sat.) and 8-9 p.m. (Tues.) in Rockne Room 301. 
Aikido -Classes are held on Monday from 7 to 8:30 p.m. in Rockne Room 301,. and Friday from 7:30 to 9:30p.m. in Room 219. Bring comfortable clothes. 
Irish Iron Classic -Dillon Hall and 
Your road to convenience begins on the Information Highway with our FREE "Dorm" Banking service. Via the Internet, you can access your account and perform many of the same trans­
"I think this game is truly 
• BASEBAll
important because Miami's a good team, and if we win we can (build) some good confi­
Early start boosts
dence," said Williamson. The Irish will return home after facing the Hurricanes for 
enthusiam, intensity
three consecutive Joyce Center 
contests before closing out the season in Providence. 
During the homestand, Notre Dame will take on Connecticut, before staging rematches with Miami and Georgetown on Feb. 22 and 25, respectively. 
By ALLISON KRILLA 
Sports Writer 
The calendar may still be stuck in February, but the Notre Dame baseball team has spring fever. 
After posting a 1-2 record in the ACC/Disney Baseball Blast two weeks ago and beating perennial powerhouse Florida State, the team hopes to improve its consistency this weekend when it travels to New Orleans for two games against the University of New Orleans and one versus Loyola. 
"We're hoping to continue to play well," said head coach Paul Mainieri. "I thought we played extremely well in Florida, although we only won one game. 
"The University of New Orleans is as good as any team we faced down (in Florida). They present a very formidable challenge for us." 
The Irish will rely on a core of experienced players, anchored by a senior infield trio-shortstop J.J. Brock, sec­ond baseman Todd Frye, and frrst baseman Dan Leatherman. 
"We're looking to our veter­ans to provide leadership," Mainieri said. "Having these sistency to the team." 
Starting third baseman Brant Ust, a freshman all-American performer in 1997, contributes a solid all-around game and experience beyond his sopho­more status. 
Junior catcher Jeff Wagner has already stepped into his role as the team's clean-up man, blasting a ninth-inning grand slam in a 10-8 loss to 
N.C. State. 
Righthander Alex Shilliday, scheduled to start tomorrow's game against New Orleans, leads a talented Irish pitching staff. Shilliday's five shutout innings against FSU proves he is ready to carry the team. 
"Alex is a big-game pitcher," said Mainieri. "He always seems to rise to the occasion for us." 
With this season's early start, the Irish possess a new enthu­siastic attitude. 
"The early start has been an advantage for us," said Mainieri. "The guys have put their game faces on earlier, and practices have been intense. 
"Some people seemed sur­prised that we went down to Florida and played so well our frrst time on the field. But I was 

actions that were once only available 
three seniors in the lineup not surprised because of the brings stability, poise and con-enthusiasm level." 

through Touch-Tone Teller. 
ON-LINE 
All you need to access your account is an Internet Connection. Questions? 
TRED

Call for details. 
DORM 

I Corne See Whaes New 
a a a 




WORLD-WIDE WEB: HTTP://WWW.NDFCU.ORG 
• 
~({])!ill§ 2lbedlnm~ (mrer l,(ffi§g.Ft.) 
• .f(fJbRocJlm Jbromrn. arumqp>m (nowyou rnnslben)in!)
A Better Choice to Make 
• A~tfbru.Mkty ~Avllllilblb1e 
• Now~for JFJlll998

LOCATIONS: 
Douglas Road-239-6611 or 800-522-6611 Ireland Hoad-299-2220 • Edison Lakes-254-4400 • Mill Street-256-2361 
CaRR 234=-9923 for the 1besi
NCUA 

Saint Mary's Campus-284-4614 • Saint Joseph's Medical Center-237-7288 
vaR1ille in off=-c&mrn.]p>1Ul§ Riving~ 

24-Ho'UR LOAN-BY-PHONE: 800-567-6328 • E-MAIL: NDFCU@SKYENET.NET 
Manage1R lBy 
ReaR Estate Management Cm•nJortation 

• Tennis 
Friday Feb.13th Men vs. Ohio State @3:15pm Women vs. O~io State@7:00pm 

SaturdayFeb;14th . .. 

Women's Basketball 

Women vs. Tennessee@i:OORm 
..,.;.:,. .·'''<' ·••····· -· h =~= :·::;;.r,wt>:N= :,.,·,.:::sntw~~:t~}\::m:::::::~=:.::= 

Thurs. Feb. 12th Sun··vd·a·"-i .-.::n.. ·e....,,Ji4,'!(.•·.·······1·'·.+.·.5',.t ., ···.•H·.· • ·.•+,•'·• ,.i.. ·., ·'"".::,·.;t,liit
.. ..•. .. 
'J r.. u _ -~<::< ;·. ,_JjRtr~:;..,,: 
vs. St. John's 7 pm 

Men vs. Miami''(FI=l) @l:OOpmtv:bn 
·'·, :··:-:::.~::::;~5~1f~F=··::1&Wi.:!·.:: ··:· · · :£{} 
f
Sun. Feb. 15th vs. Pittsburgh 2 pm 2 ~Jbjiii:Jents! (while so lies last) 
-

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, February 13, 1998 

• TRACK AND fiELD 
Irish prepare for Big East meet 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Sports Writer 
A limited number of athletes will compete for the Notn~ Dame track and field team this weekend in two separate meets -tlw Butler Invitational in Indianapolis and the Central Collegiate Championships in Ann ·Arbor, Mich. 
Competition in the Central Collegiate Championships will consist of mostly Big Ten schools such as Michigan and Miehigan State, and Mid­Ameriean Conferenee sehools like Western Michigan, Eastern Michigan, Central Michigan, and Toledo, many of whieh the Irish faced earlier in the year. 
The Butler Invitational has traditionally invited teams such as Florida, Stanford, LSU, and Arkansas, giving Irish runners a ehance to face some different eompetition. Both tracks are 200-meters. but Butler's is banked. while Michigan's is more similar to the track on whieh the Big East Championships will be held. 
The Fighting Irish coaches are employing different stratl~­gies to ensure that their ath­letes will be in top form for the Big East Championships Feb. 21-22. Most sprinters and field 
Today is Friday the 13th ... 
OOOHHH! 
athletes participating in next week's conference meet will take to the track today and tomorrow as a final chance to prepare for Big East competi­tion, but most distance runners will sit this week out to rest up for the strain of running multi­ple distance events. 
"We're just going to take the week off and rest up for the Big East," said women's distance eoaeh Tim Connelly. "We have some kids that are going to run a lot of raees next week, so we thought it would be best to take the week ofT." 
Sprints and hurdles coaeh John Millar plans to send the runners who will be raeing next week as a final preparation and as a chance to get some addi­tional experience. Senior cap­tain Errol Williams, all­American Danny Payton, Berit Junker, Nadia Schmiedt, and Carri Lenz will take part in the Butler Invitational. The first four are previous all-Big East selections, while Lenz is a freshman. Ile will send junior Bobby Brown and freshmen standouts Terry Wray and Tony Driver to the Central Collegiate Championships. 
"We are using this weekend as preparation for the Big East meet, as one more chance to run and as a ehance for kids to get their times down and confi­dence up for the eonference meet," said Millar. 
"I guess I'm just trying to improve my time and get ready for the Big East. It should be a good indication for the 500­meter run next week if I can get my time down in the 400­meter run, and it should defi­nitely help my speed," said 400­meter runner Schmiedt. 
Scott Winsor, the field events coach, will be giving the women field athletes some time off to prepare for the Big East while taking basically all of the men in order to help him deeide who to put in the Big East meet. 
"It'II be a very good meet. The competition is very stiff," said Winsor. "There's good tal­ent there, so it is a good pre-Big East meet." 
''I'd like to stay kind of consis­tent, around 6-foot-9 or 6-foot­10," said top high jumper Dan Frigo, "so I can keep the rhythm going heading into the Big East." 
»!'II;MEN's SOCCER 

Wl···· ~Rjre""Dame signs 
<German defender 
Spccialto The Observer 
··~: ::,:·:::-~' 
Notre Dame men's soccer coach Mike Berticelli has h, added a fourth player to his 1998 recruiting class. Markus Berndt of Blaubach, (i.etmany, a 6·foot-1, 160 :Hf lbs. midtiplder/defender, has --signed .a'national letter of 8, intent to play for the Irish 'h beginning with 1998 cam· paign. 
ilf;;r;;Berndt becomes the fourth ' recruit to sign with Notre Dame for the upcoming sea­son.;; Last. week, Berticelli signed other players to 
+linlitional letters .of intent ­Shane Walton, Evan Oliver, and Matt Rosso. +EBerndt; who has been attending the Universitat Des Saarlances for the past two years, graduated from he Gymnasium Kusel where he was a standout on the school's soccer team. As a captain, he led his team to back-to-back Rheiland-Pfalz state championships in 1993 and 1994. 
Berndt has been a defend­
er on the FC Homverg squad 
for three years. Presently, 
his team has a league-lead­
ing 15-0-2 record and he has. 
scored two goals. lie was a 
starter for FC Kaiserlautern 
which twice finished as run­
ner-up in the German Youth 
championship. In 1994, his 
squad finished second at the 
Dallas Cup losing to Real 
Madrid in the finals. 
His brother Michael cur­·rently is a member of the under-19 German National team. 
"Marcus brings maturity, experience and sophistica­tion to our soccer team," Berticelli said. "He has tremendous leadership qual­ities that will help our team overcome the loss or our graduating seniors. His experie"nce with both Homberg and Kaiserslautern is a true testamont of his quality as a player and per­son." 

niversity Hairstylists 
d to introduce the latest their staff, Janet, who is nsed nail technician. 

Located in the lower level of LaFortune, her hours are~"".'.'.n. nd
·. 
Wed. 12-5, and Sat. 12. For an appointment, call 144. 


FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13. STEPAN CENTER 8:00P.M. 
CONTESTANTS: PAUL DOUGHERTY PIERRE GONSALVES BILL GONSER TIM BELLAIRE 
HOSTED BY: DAVE REIDY PAT DONOFRIO 
TIME IS RUNNING OUT!!! TO EARN MONEY FOR SPRING BREAK  
YOU CAN STKIT-"L SITfirN UKJ) TO \VOJRK C.ATJEJRRNG JFOJRJJPW SHKIF1l'S A V AJI1LA1BLE~ SAT. 2/211 & SUN. 2/22  
STOP BY CATERING EMPLOYMENT OFFICE NDH/BASEMENT 631-5449  

"NUGE." 

THE THIRTEENTH 
$3.00 DONATION TO BENEFIT THE LOGAN CENTER I 
--~~-----------~~~ --~ ~ 

Friday, February 13, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS 
• SMC BASKETBALL 
Saint Mary's falls to Manchester 
By JANICE WEIERS Sports Wrirer 
The buzzer beat the Belles. The Saint Mary's basketball team ran out of time 
1997-98 SEASON 
NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE PRESENTS 
a staged reading of 
THE 
ESCAP. 
Kro 


a drama for epic theate~ 
Written~n're d by DAVID RR , C.S.C. 
DAN A L S, STAGE MANAGER C~ , ASSISTANT DIRECTOR 
Wednesday night at Manchester College, losing 82­76. 
Trailing early, the Belles managed to come back and tie up the game. But in the end, 
February 12th~ & 14th, 1998 7:30P.M. 
1'-ftl~FOR::MED at 
W'..v-..LYDINGTON HALL 
In Roo01 110 -IHt Floor, at rear ••f building 
IF YOU THINK YOU MAY BE ·INSANE, THE FIRST 
STEP IS ADMITTING THE PROBLEM. THE SECOND STEP IS TO 
JOIN SUB. 
SO••.FOLLOW THESE SIMPLE INSTRUCTIONS: 
1. YODEL LIKE ASWEDISH ZYGOTE 
2.PICK UP AN APPLICATION IN THE SUB OFFICE (201 LAFUN)
3. FILL IT OUT (DUH) 4.GO TO BRIDGET'S (OOPS! NEVERMIND!) 
5. RETURN APPLICATION TO SUB BY FEB 20 
WHY SUB? 
1. HEY, BRIDGET'S IS CLOSED 
-WHAT ELSE CAN YOU DO TO ENTERTAIN YOURSELF? 
2.WE DON'T MAKE YOU SLEEP WITH INTERNS 3.HOT CHICKS ABOUND 
4.SPICE 
the tough press of the Spartans overpowered the Belles. 
The night was bittersweet for senior Julie McGill, who re-wrote the Saint Mary's record book for the fifth time in her career. Going into the game, the tri-captain needed only a pair of rebounds to break Jennie Taubenheim's career-rebounding record of 
625. McGill answered with 14, bringing her total to 637 with four games left to play. 
For the Belles, the mental aspect of the game was miss­ing during the first 20 min­utes. 
"We're fine physically, just mentally we are having some problems," said junior Charlotte Albrecht. "We just couldn't get the ball past half­court during the first half." 
The Belles trailed by 15 at 
SAINT MARY'S DANCE WORKSHOP CO. 

FOR MORE DIRT,
CALL 1-7757 
e 
SUB: 
WHAT YOUR MAMA WARNED YOU ABOUT 

halftime, but they came out fighting in the second half. 
"We figured out how to break through the press," said Albrecht. "We changed our defense and press-breaker a little." 
• 
And the Belles played with a winning attitude. 
"If you want to win a bas­ketball game, you need to play two halves, not just one," said senior Brenda Hoban. 
Although the first half was over, the Belles kept their heads in the second half. 
McGill blazed the trail with 32 points. Senior tri-captains Hoban and Darcy Nikes fol­lowed behind with 19 and 16 points, respectively. Freshman Cortney Litka and 
Hoban  pulled  down  seven  
rebounds apiece.  
The Belles learned a  lesson  

that they won't soon forget ­mentality is an important part of the game. 
"At the beginning, half of the shots weren't going in. Making baskets is part of the fundamentals of the game," said Hoban. "If you aren't mentally prepared, the funda­mentals are the first to go." 
The Belles host Wheaton College at 2 p.m. tomorrow. 
FREAK POSITIONS: 
EXECUTIVE BOARD MEMBERS: BOARD MANAGER DIRECTOR OF PROGRAMMING 
DIRECTOR OF COMMUNICATIONS& RELATIONS DIRECTOR OF CREATIVITY & ADVERTISING CHJEF CONTROllER 
PROGRAMMERS FOR: ANTOSTAl CAMPUS ENTERTAJNMENT 
CONCERTS 
COllEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAl CULTURAl ARTS IDEAS &ISSUES MOVIES SOPHOMORE liTERARY FESTWAL SERVICES SPECIAl EVENTS 
ASSISTANT CONTROLLERS GRAPHIC DESIGNERS COMMUNICATIONS AND RELATIONS ASSISTANTS 
<. 

Friday, February I3, 1998
page 20 The Observer· SPORTS 
• MEN's TENNIS 
... Hockey 
continued from page 24 
Slumping Irish host Buckeyes, 'Canes 
that was the result of turnovers in the neutral zone. That is something that we're emphasiz­ing this time around. Ohio State has two aggressive lines that like to capitalize on mistakes, and while turnovers haven't plagued us all season, we are going to focus on taking care of the puck in the neutral zone," recalled Eisler. 
."We'rn aiming to cut down on our neutral zone turnovers," ChipchasH said. "Eliminating those will be important for us to do to win." 
Chipchase, a freshman for­ward, has appeared in all 31 games this season and has recorded four goals and one assist. 
"Coach [Dave Poulin] has played me and I am fortunate for that," he explained. "I obvi­ously haven't been in this posi­tion of coming down the stretch of the CCHA season before, but it's very exciting and I like the way Coach is having us approach the last seven games." 
While Saturday night's contest against Western Michigan might not be as romantic or attention­grabbing as the game against bitter rival Ohio State, it is just as significant. Notre Dame ncmls to earn the precious two points this game offers, but in the past it has been these games against lower-ranked opponents that have been an anathema to the Irish. 
"There may be a danger of looking past them," analyzed Chipchase, "but I know that Coach would never let us do that. They are a quality oppo­nent, and we will be ready for them." 
By SHANNON RYAN Spons Writer 
After two consecutive losses, the Notre Dame men's tennis team will feel for the clutch in two home games this weekend. 
"It's hard to shift gears down," head coach Bob Bayliss said of declining Irish perfor­mances. "We've got to get going because it's a lot easier to shift into a higher gear." 
In the midst of a home stretch, the Irish are hoping to accelerate against Ohio State Friday at 3:30 p.m. and Miami Sunday at 1 p.m. at the Eck Pavilion. 
If Notre Dame has any hopes of picking up speed, the team must improve its lackluster doubles play. In dual matches this season, the Irish are win­less pairs. 
Despite a high national rank­ing and solid play in the Rolex Championships·, Jakub Pietrowski and Brian Patterson have been incapable of earning a win in dual matches. Their losing record has left the Irish dismayed at the drawing board. 
"I know they're No. 5 in dou­bles [nationally], but they're 0­3 in dual matches," Bayliss said after the Irish fell victim to Kentucky Wednesday. "I don't know if it's the chemistry or the combinations or what. I may have to change the combina­tions." 
If the Irish can't design a workable formula for doubles by the weekend, the combus­tion could prove deadly. 
The Buckeye's pairs swept three teams this year, including Minnesota, whose doubles beat the Irish in straight sets. OSU duo Scott Wiles and Ben Basil are the most powerful combo, boasting a 4-0 record on the season. 
Ohio State's strength is not solely concentrated on doubles. Senior Californian Vo Chu leads its singles line-up. No. 2 Chris Porter and No. 3 Bob Wellstein will provide back-up. 
Molt Affordable Student Hou1inc 


Taking Applications for the '98~'99 School Year and May~August Summer Rentals. 

Tracie Griffith, 
Take a Free Test Drive 
and find out! 
February 14th, Saturday 9am-12pm 
Sponsored by the Notre 
Dame Pre-Law 
Society 

University of Notre Dame 
Call today to reserve your seat! 
•:f;ia,,,1. 
1-800-KAP-TEST 
www.kaplan.com 
·eourw namn are mgl5&ered trademarks ollheit r1!SPI!Ct1v& ownetS. 
"They're good straight down the line," Bayliss said. 'They're a very well-balanced team." 
After trying to offset OSU's steadiness, the Irish will attempt to disrupt Miami's equilibrium. 
The Hurricanes beat the Irish 4-1 in last year's Big East championship, leaving Notre Dame disgruntled in second place. 
'They beat us last year and we beat them the two years before," said Bayliss of the 'Canes, winners of four of the last five years Big East Championships. "We've devel­oped quite a rivalry with them." 
The spotlight will be focused on center court Sunday as Ryan Sachire, bright spot for the Irish, takes on freshman phe­nom Rudy Rake. 
Rake, ranked second nation­ally and seventh globally for under-18 competitors, is more like a brand new wing. 

Joining Miami after amateur fall play and experiencing the professional satellite circuit, Rake has now become the eye of the Hurricanes. 
If the Irish arc going to weather the storm, they need to recover in more ways than one. In the sixth position, Andy Warford's ankle is still a prob­lem -he sprained it chasing down a ball against Kentucky. 
"Andy's playing at a real high level," Bayliss said. "That's a plus if he can resume at the same level." 
Danny Rothschild and Sachire have been the warm spots and may serve as possible remedies for the recent lrish'recent blues. Still, blue and gold weekend victories hinge on an all-team, all-star performance. 
:PUn 9lecS4J~-, J~~ ~ tire ~JUwd ~~,o.ciai;Um 
foJi 0-Wt tiWtd annual 
0 
Vdentilre ~-~~1 
&ll:JUcSp~@ 1-5965 (-tvt 
;.,./,.,
tfUJ.Jt£ ...."fA'"• 


Friday, February 13, 1998 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 
Valentine's Day and JPW Plans. • • 

()Trivia 

() 7 ft TV Screens 
G~ Seating for 
Over 300 -~ Extra Large Booths 
o Mouth Watering Variety of Sandwiches and Entrees 
4 big TV between Se-rvice Merchandise and ~ B 
~-~-I 

screens, and (6502 Grape llQad) .;~ I 
., I

multiple dart boards! 
273-0088 :~-· ,,.. I 
~ Homemade Soups & Breads 
~Appetizers -~Salads ~ Sandwiches 
and PASTA 
Celebrate with your Sweetie!! 
1 
topping pizza, 
•j
1 
1 breadsticks, and two i r cokesfor t : -~-~ 00 i L _ ~ood th~<>.!!,9!:!_2~~9~ . . ..J 
We\'ND/Saint Mary's 
Notre Dame: 271-1177 Saint Mary's: 271-PAPA 1827 South Bend Avenue (formerly Cactus Jack's) 52565 US 33 (North Village Mall) Open for lunch, dine in available 
.I 
Open 7 days a week 
DJ: Tues., Thurs., Fri., & Sat. 
Menu Specials -call for information 
,,.3 £ ••:t:::av'~a $·........e-_

~~~--·~~·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
r·~""~-~~ 
t ~TJ.fi+eRno! I 
t Dinner for 2 
1 I" Large 2 I t . . 
1 oppmg piZza, t 1 breadsticks, and two :1 f cokes for . . J 
' q..,..c oo·. -' :J
l ~! . .· . 1 L _~a,! t!:!_~ug'!_2~~9,! .._ ..1 

for (a -'Chees-ebulJ!:flt"' {in ;varu·i&ise! 417 N. MICHIGAN 233,5981 

~  
t  ~n.fi+i~.; Late Night Snack for 2  I -t I  .  
~  Cheesesticks,  ~  !  

1breadsticks, and two I I cokes for : 1 
I d'-7.. . ; I 
I :: -~•v I · L _ ~!!_~o-!9!:!_22~9,! _ .J 
~..-*'~
MJ­
Oelt~H~"tirj Tk&:ktRzza/ 

Ask about our... WelcomeJPW Parents 

Scorned or Smitten, Come Party all weekend tong•.. have one for love and let your parents pay forlf! 
I 

~-'?el-14: ~. 'Jet. 20: 
•D.J. 
Kennard & Walker •Skaba di.i 

•
Midnight Serenade S~.';d 21: ~ 


•NO's Best oeejays 1 
525N. ~ill St.~~~~-~~-~~~!~~..~ 
r------------------­
page 22 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, February 13, 1998 
• WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Weekend matches Mil test Irish 
By TIM CASEY 
Sporrs Writer 

The women's tennis team hopes to improve upon its undefeated record this week­end when it plays host to Tennessee, Boston College and Ohio State. The Irish are 2-0 on the season with impressive wins against Drakf1 and Purdue. 
Coach .Jay Louderback has been pleased with his team's performance so far this year. 
"Wo looked good throughout the lineup in our two wins. We are always strong in singles, but our doubles have been playing well as of late." 
The Irish were not in action last weekend but tlw two top playnrs on the loam, .Jennifer Hall and Michelle Dasso com­peted in the Holex National indoor tournament. llall advanced to the quarterfinals, while Dasso lost in three sets to tlw 1we n t u al tour na men t finalist. 
"The national experience benefitted Hall and Dasso. Tlwy competed against the top players in the country and that will only help in the future," said Louderback. 
Tlw Tennessee Volunteers of should prove a good challenge for tlw Irish. 
They are led by senior Manisha Malhotra, an aii­Am,~rican last year. Malhotra 
advanced to the round of 16 at the national indoors. The No. I doubles team of Malhotra and Margie Lepsi made it to the indoor semifinals. 
Tennessee is a very talented team that returns two all­Americans in Malhotra and Lepsi. 
"We are also very strong at the top, so it should be a good match. We arc eager to see where we match up with one of tlw best teams in the coun­try," said Louderback. 
Ohio State played well against Tennessee earlier in the season. They arc very young but talented at the top of their lineup with their top two singles players being freshmen. Kristy Dascoli and Briana Harris, Ohio State's top two players, had impres­sive wins over Malhotra and Lcpsi. Dascoli beat Malhotra in a third set tie-breaker, while !farris beat Lepsi 6-4, 6­
2. Dascoli and Harris were high school teammates and co­captains at the prestigious Bradenton Academy in Florida. 
"Ohio State is one of the best teams in the Midwest. They are young, with only one senior in their lineup. Dascoli and Harris are only freshmen, but they have had national experience since they were young," said Louderback. 
Big East Conference foe Boston College is also young. 

<o: at'e as sweet as can &e 
+ <{I ftave tfte cutest ears ofa[ CJ.'{q)[ =~Cove from OOss Susl 

Its top two singles players are also freshmen. Cynthia Tow, Chestnut llill, Mass., plays No. 1 for the Eagles. Freshman Kiren Fernando is the second singles player for BC after completing an undefeated state championship year in Oregon as a high school senior. 
"Boston College always has good players," said Louderback. "I do not know much about their freshmen but they must be very talented to play so high on the ladder. It will be good to play a match against a Big East school before the tournament in April." 
Louderback and his team are eager to play. 
"This weekend will be a good test because we will be playing three ranked teams," he said. "We arc looking forward to getting back on the courts after having last weekend off." 


Courtesy Notre Dame Sports Information 
Michelle Dasso returns to the Irish after national play last weekend. 


AG THE DOG (R) 1:00, 3:25, 5:50, 8:15, 10:35 DOGIE NIGHTS (R) 12:50,3:50,7:05,10:05 
DEEP RISING (R) 12:45, 3:00, 5:15, 7:35, 10:05 RS BROWN (PG) 1:20, 3:55, 7:20, 9:45 
7:45, 10:10 
*No passes 
GET MONEY FROM YOUR UNCLE INSTEAD. 
Your Uncle Sam. Every fees. They even pay a flat rate year Army ROTC awards for textbooks and supplies. scholarships to hundreds of You can also receive an allow-talented students. If you anceofupto$1500eachschool 
qualify, these merit-based  ~E.ADERSHtp  year the scholarship is in  
scholarships can help you  ~  effect.  Find out today if  
paytuitionandeducational  you qualify.  


ARMY ROTC 
THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE 
For details, visit 216 Pasquerilla Center or call 
631-6986 


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
Friday, Frebruary 13, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
.. 

MEN ABOUT CAMPUS DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE 

St. Valentine's Fest!! 
Cushing $2 @ door When Harry Met Sally Thurs, Fri, Sat 10:30pm Fools Rush In Fri, Sat 8pm 
Chinese Acrobats 
7:00pm Stepan 
on sale @ LaFortune and door $3 UNO, SMC, HCC $5 everyone else 

ALL RIC,HT, IF ANYBoD'I ELSE EXPECTS To LEARN 
--(ru £ V£RY I~ I

HoW To MAKE AN J/ONEST LIV/Nq, LEAVE NoW, 'CAUSE 
P..-of Bl(

YoV ~orIH£ WRoNq 
CLASS'. 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM MIKE PETERS 


l OION'T REA.LIZE YOU WERE SUCI-\ A. PHILOSOPHER. 
Acoustic Cafe Thurs 9-12pm Feb.27 

35 Hood so"Noman-­" 
37 Take down-­
38 Right, in a way 53 "Trust--" (1937 hit) 
39 Crews' quarters 
1150's innovation 55 Ubangi tributary 

41 Bender 1 Body builder? 12 Hoped for 44 Invitation 57 80's Pentagon 
2 One usually salvation letters
notationprecedes 14 Whist variety 45 CPR pros 59 Diamond stat. 

15-Across 18 Roulette bet 3 Infant's dessert, 22 They're all talk maybe 
4 "Leaving Las 26 Capital city till Answers to any three clues in this puzzle Vegas" co-star 
1960 are available by touch-tone phone: 28Chemical 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 

5 Hack's place & Palindromic title suffixes Annual subscriptions are available for the 7 Took a stab at? 31 Mouse best of Sunday crosswords from the last 8 Colombian coin manipulator 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Aries:ln your haste to over­whelmed. Turn up the music achieve,· you may end up over­and lose yourself in someone consuming. Too much fuel will else's artistic ability today. only slow you down. This is a Intimacy is a better relaxant, so day to lighten your load instead tell or show someone you love of adding to it. just how you feel. 
Taurus:Brand new ideas pop Scorpio: When you help some­out of your mouth in completed one out of the goodness of your form today. Either you are the heart, the rewards are immedi­lucky victim of divine inspira­ate and manifold. Friendship tion, or your unconscious mind grows from trust in a difficult has been busy lately. Artists moment. Small action results in can expect a memorable day. great change. 
Gemini:Clean your home or Sagittarius:Others disagree office in case someone special with your opinions, but you makes a surprise visit. Filing easily impress them with your and laundry are necessary evils style and abilities. Accept the unless you want to be buried in fact that you cannot please your own junk. Comunication is everyone. Of course, you can easier when your house is in please some people a great order. deal. 
Cancer:Even if you think the Capricorn:Research yields a job is done, run through the resource that has been at your details one last time. Catching fingertips all along. The idea of mistakes at the last minute may a global currency suddenly be embarrassing, but it is bet­makes a great deal of sense. ter than being too late. Call a Knowledge and understanding problem as soon as you see it. put you in a happy mood today. 
.. 
Leo:Yesterday's impulses are Aquarius:Too many cooks today's embarrassments. spoil the broth today. A great Caution and low energy rob you idea is useless if no one can of your sense of humor. agree on even the first step to Someone else's gratitude helps carry it out. Let the little things to bring back a little of the old slide by and remember your spark. common goal. 
Virgo:Physical activity plays a Pisces:Today you are any big part in what you do today. easy victim for those who You impress others without would prey on your time and even trying. Your natural flair energy. Some people have legit­for romance and relationship imate needs, but you must really comes out, and commit­become a better judge of when ment is just on the horizon. to say "yes" or "no." One per­
Libra: Face it-you are over-son could ruin it for everyone. 
.... _ 


DILBERT 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Personal things? 4 It's full of roots 9 Rocky Mtn. highs? 13 Takes home 15-­Conferences of 1899 and 1907 16--Maar (Picasso mistress and subject) 17 Some Havanans 19 Actor Morales 20 Round rolls 21 Sentimentality 23 Outer limit 24 Pizza topping 25 One that's over due? 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
27 1969 Hoffman role 
29Author-­Yutang 
30 "Independence Day" actor 
32 Fleetwood Mac's "Walk --Line" 
33 Mason attachment 
34 Commercial prefix for many cold-weather products 
35 Comic actor John 
36 Like a shake roof 39 Mollycoddles 
40 Military demolitions expert 

41 Shoot the 
breeze 42 Take a bough 43 Nursery items 44 Monthly service 46 Trip 47 French story 48Long-­49 Millionths of a 
meter 

51 Singer Ocasek of the Cars 52 Old-fashioned contraction 
54--one's welcome 56 Noted name in 
news papering 58 Hospital helper 60"--Three 
Lives" (TV oldie) 
61 "The Pirates of Penzance" heroine 
62 Roulette bet 
63-Jr. (acting son, familiarly) 
64 Beethoven dedicatee 
9 "The Sultan of 
65Antis 
Sulu" writer 10 Fall short in votes

DOWN 
.. SPORTS Weekend 
page 24 Friday, February 13, 1998 
• WOMEN's BASKETBALL 

Irish crush Red Storm 
Home court advantage sparks victory 
By BILL HART Spons Writer 
The road has not befm a pleasant place for the Notre Dame women's bas­kntball team, but the friendly confines of the Joyee Center have always provided some eomfort. 
With the end of the con­fenmee season approach­ing, a three-game homes­tand should be the spark that the Irish need to return to the front of the conference pack. Last night, Notre Dame started that spark with a 76-44 victory over the St. John's Hed Storm. 
While St.-John's won the tip-off to start the game, the Irish defense quickly forced a turnover. On the ensuing possession, fresh­man Kelley Siemon put up a layup for the first points of the game. Eight sec­onds later. a three-pointer by junior Sheila McMillen forced a SJU 20-second time-out. 

The Red Storm finally got on the board two min­utes into the contest with a jumper by senior Latricia Gunnells. On the next pos­session, sophomore Niele Ivey came down hard and was forced to leave the contest. Although she walked off the court under her own power, she did not return to the· game. 
"We're not sure whether it was a bruised hip," said head coach Muffet McGraw of the injury. "She was going up to shoot when she got hit. She got kneed right on the bone." 
Green immediately went to work off the bench, hit­ting two free-throws to push the lead to 9-2. After another SJU turnover, Green went to the bucket the layup off a pass from Siemon. A minute later, senior Mollie Peirick stretched the lead to 14-4. 
"She's a terrific defend­er, a tremendous rebound­cr. and she really goes to the basket," said McGraw of Green. "I thought she played a very good game tonight, and I think that we need her in the game, especially defensively. We need to rebound better, and she's one of the best rebounders on the team." 
It was then that the Red Storm decided to go on a run of their own, cutting the lead to 18-14 with 
10:22 left in the half. However, Green provided a spark for the Irish, mak­ing the next three points to keep St. John's at bay. 
A jumper from senior Kari Hutchinson pushed the lead to 23-14, followed by a three-point play from Siemon. After a Notre Dame time-out, the Irish 

again, this time making 
see WOMEN'S I page 15 

The Observer/Kevin Dalum 
Ruth Riley (00) led the Irish with 13 points and 10 rebounds last night. 

• MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Hurricane warning threatens Irish 
By BRIAN REINTHALER Assistant Sports Editor 
After taking advantage of their home court to snap a two-game losing streak, the Irish hit the road again this weekend to play the first of two upcoming conh~sts against rival Miami. 
The Hurricanes enter the contt~st with an 8-4 record in the conference, coming off a 72-63 defeat at the hands of Syracuse on Saturday. Leading Miami, as always, will be the imposing presence of Tim James. He averages 17.8 points and 9. 7 rebounds per game and has caused seri­ous trouble for the opposi­tion on both ends of the floor. 
Besides having to contend with James' size in the paint, Notre Dame will once again be forced to take the 11oor without sharpshooter Keith Friel. Friel has yet to play in the month of February, missing the last three games after suffering a hamstring injury in a win over St. John's on JM. 31. 
When asked if he has felt any added pressure since Friel went down, small for­ward Leviticus Williamson indicated that he did not. 
"My role is to come in and support the team however I can," explained the fresh­man. "Keith's job is to score." 
While Williamson correct­ly acknowledged that he currently functions as more of role player than Friel, he did admit that he feels there is more he can do on the offensive end. 
''I'm feeling pretty good about the time I'm getting and what I'm doing with it," Williamson commented, "but I think I can do a little more scoring. I haven't been real aggressive with scoring and I need to work on that." 
The player who finds him­self in the spotlight more than any other in Friel's absence is junior Antoni Wyche. The shooting guard has always expressed his belief that he can be an offensive threat for the Irish, but the shots have just not been falling lately. Wyche finished with eight points in the win over Boston College Wednesday, on just 2-of-11 from the field and 1·of·7 from beyond the arc. 
It will be important for 
see MEN'S I page 17 
• HOCKEY 
Weekend games crucial for leers 
BY CHARLEY GATES Sporrs Wrirer 
Poised in sixth place with their Central Collegiate Hockey Association season winding down, the Boys of Winter have become men on a mission. Their objective is simple: Home­ice for the playoffs. 
"That's something that we talk about a lot," said freshman for­ward Chad Chipchase. "It is still within our grasp." 
The teams that finish in the top four of the 11-team league earn home-ice advantage for the first round of the post-season. 
Notre Dame (14-13-4 overall, 9-1 0-4 CCIIA) currently sits tied for sixth place with 22 points. The Irish trail fifth-place Northern Michigan by live points and fourth-place Ohio State by seven points. 
Tonight, the Irish have a huge opportunity to legitimize their claims to home-ice when they host Ohio State at the Joyce Center at 7 p.m. 
"Friday night is huge," explained Chipchase. "It is a great chance for us to gain ground on fourth place in the league." 
On Saturday evening, the team travels to Western Michigan. The Mustangs lost radar contact with the rest of the teams in the league long ago and are trapped in the cellar of the CCHA. But Chipchase cautioned against looking past them. 
"At this point in the season, every game is huge, and we 


• 
The Observer/Kevin Oalum 
The Irish will face the Buckeyes and the Mustangs this weekend. 
need all the points we can get," he stated. "In the CCIIA, anyone can beat anyone on any given night." 
"Each and every game is super important," said senior goal­tender Matt Eisler, who posts a 
3.03 goals-against average and an 89.6 percent save rate. 
Eisler was on lire in the net last weekend. He was a big rea­son the Irish captured three of four points in two games. 
"It was a combination of things last weekend that went well for us. It was an all-around good team effort. On Saturday night, for instance, we had a three-goal cushion five minutes into the game. That takes a lot of pres­sure oil' of me, because then one little mistake by me doesn't afl'ect the outcome of the game," explained Eisler. 
The Irish have battled the Buckeyes twice this season, with each team earning one vietory. In their most recent meeting, the Buckeyes capitalized on Irish turnovers to win the game. 
"Last game against them, they had two short-handed goals and 
see HOCKEY/ page 20 
Men's Basketball, 

• 
Swimming a) 
• Olympic coverage continues 
at Miami 
vs. Wisconsin, 
February 14, 7:30p.m. 
Tomorrow, 2 p.m. ~ 
see page 16 

• 
...... 
r 
ri:J • Track prepares for Butler lnvitaional 
Women's Basketball 
Track and Field 
vs. Pirrsburgh, 
at Central Collegiate 
and Central Collegiate Championships 
February 15, 2 p.m. 
Championships, 
see page 18 
Tomorrow ~ 








