-----~~-------------------­

I 
Thursday, April 2, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No. 118­
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Eldred encourages diversity, curriculum changes 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY Saint Mary's News Editor 

Saint Mary's College president Marilou Eldred dedicated her speech yesterday to informing students about enrollment, technolo­gy and campus improvements. 
Eldred's speech centered around what she referred to as "major vision priorities," includ­ing enhancing the curriculum, connecting Saint Mary's to the larger community and strengthening 
the internal campus 'WE CAN AND SHOULD FIND WAYS TO interactions. 
EXPRFSS VARYING POINTS OF VIEW 
Eldred meutioned 

AND TO BE ALWAYS SURE THAT WE ARE DOING
adding a service 

component to the THAT RFSPECTFULLY.' curriculum in order to build the College's connection to the MAR/LOU ELDRED community. She also PRESIDENT, SAINT MARY's COLLEGE 
spoke of increasing cultural diversity in the curriculum and adding cohesion to the gen­eral education program. 
"By increasing diversity I mean not only by bringing a diverse group of students, faculty and staff but also in terms of adding diversity to the curriculum." Eldred said. 
Eldred then elaborated on her thoughts regarding curriculum. 
"J don't mean to say that our current general education program is not coherent," she said. "But I do think that there are things we can do to make it a more coordinated package of pro­grams." 
The topic of enrollment, which has been an issue of concern, was addressed next by Eldred. As of March 13, the College had accept­ed 677 students and enrollment intents from students who plan to attend Saint Mary's in the fall are still coming in. 
"We are way up in acceptances, which is grP..at," Eldred said. "We're still holding about 
even to last year with acknowledgments but what I would really like to see is our acknowledgments go up." 
Eldred did empha­size that without the final figures for admission in for this year, the College needs tO be Careful about being overly optimistic. 

Maintaining the high retention rate and num­ber of students transferring into the College are other concerns for the future, according to Eldred. 
"We have a very good retention rate national­ly," she said. "I also think it is realistic for us to assume that in the future our transfer applica­tions will increase." 
Among the efforts underway to stabilize 
see ELDRED I page 4 


The Observer/John Daily 
Participants in yesterday's Great Irish Rebellion Conference enjoyed a reception sponsored by the government of Ireland. 
Deane: Burke's writings consistent 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN News Editor 

I
rish political theorist Edmund Burke, despite numerous different readings of his work, has 
an inner consistency in his views on the East India Company, the French Revolution and the Protestant ascendancy in lrelimd, according to Keough Chair of Irish Studies Seamus Deane in the closing plenary address to the Great Irish Rebllion Conference last night in the Center for Continuing Education. 
"It is a little odd to end a conference about events that happened in 1798 with a· speech about a man who died in 1797," Deane joked. 
"[But] if Burke had lived through to the next year, he would have seen his worst fears for the world and for Ireland realized," he explained later on. 
Deane said that he would not address Burke's 
writing about the East India Company because of 
its sheer volume. But he did use Burke's writings 
see IRELAND I page 4 


Kernan to give commencement speech for '98 
By HEATHER COCKS Editor-in-Chief 
Indiana Lt. Gov. Joseph Kernan will deliver the principal address at the University's commencement exercises for the class of 1998, according to Notre Dame Public Relations and Information. 
The former mayor of South Bend, whose nine­year term is the longest in the city's history, will also receive an honorary doctor­ate at the University's 153rd graduation ceremony on May 17. 
"He is a distinguished Notre Dame [1968] alum­nus," said Dennis Moore, director of Public Relations. "He was a war hero and a prisoner of war in Vietnam, and now, as lieutenant governor, his political career is.just taking off. 
"As mayor of South Bend, he did a lot to increase the relations between town and gown," Moore added. "''m sure he will have a lot of interesting things to say." 
Senior class president Beth Nolan, though respectful of Kernan's accomplishments, showed less enthusiasm for the selection. 
"I'm disappointed," she said. "Being a POW and a war hero, I'm sure he'll be inter­esting, but the senior class government is disappointed, and not just because the only way we heard about it was by stumbling _upon the press release. 
"I mean, the University of Oklahoma got Margaret Thatcher, and we, one of the nation's top 20 universities, can only get a lieutenant governor," she said. "We feel our suggestions were not taken seriously." 
In January 1997, the class of '98 officers submitted a list of possible speakers at the University's request, according to Nolan. That list included Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt, Marian Wright-Edelman of the 


see KERNAN I page 4 

page 2 Thursday, April 2 , 1998The Observer • INSIDE 
• INSIDE COLUMN 


utside the Dome 
I 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Alumni condemn anti-affirmative action ruling 
AUSTIN, Texas The letter added that without action, 
This week, several University of UT racial controversy last semester Texas alumni launched a letter-writing "will only serve to paint the University campaign condemning the Hopwood as a bastion of radal and cultural intol­anti-affirmative action ruling and erance." pledging support for UT efforts to According to UT Interim President increase minority enrollment. Peter Flawn's office, Flawn has not yet 
Members of the group include received the letter and couldn't com­Michael Davis, a UT alumnus and ment on it. founder of the student government's Davis said the group hopes to create Minority Information Center. a momentum around diversity issues. 
"We saw a dramatic fall in enroll­"As a Texan, I want to make sure the ment among black and Hispanic stu­state maintains all of its local talent," dents," Davis said. "We are not point­he said. "We just want to let the ing fingers at the University. We just "The Hopwood decision has had a University know that alumni are united want to make sure the University devastating efl"ect on the University stu­for this cause." maintains its vigilance." dent body, drastically shrinking the Eric Dixon, a 1992 UT graduate and 
I 
The letter, addressed to UT and UT numbers of Hispanic and African­former SG executive director, said the System administrators, was signed by American students in attendance," the group is concerned about low gradua­18 UT alumni stating their concern letter states. "We are united in our tion, attendance and application rates about the Hopwood ruling's effect on position that cultural diversity and edu­among minorities at the University. 
i 
student body diversity. cational opportunity for all must "The incremental progress we have Texas Attorney General Dan Morales' remain a paramount goal of the made could be etched back by interpretation of the 1996 Hopwood University." !lopwood," he said. 
I • CORNEll UNIVERSITY • UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN 
I ~ 
Judge dismisses prof's allegations Attorney challenges housing policy 
ITHACA, N.Y. ANN ARBOR, Mich.
! 
I 
Earlier this week, the New York State Supreme Court University officials do not know who tore off a $1,500 bul­dismissed claims of negligence and fraud made against the letin board from a sixth tloor wall in Couzens Residence Hall University by psychology professor James B. Maas, a move on March 19. But the University is planning to pro-rate the that effectively preempts a court trial. Maas filed eight cost of replacing the bulletin board among the floor's resi­claims against the University in 1995, seeking over $1.5 dents unless the perpetrator comes forward, according to a million for alleged damages suffered during sexual harass­letter sent to sixth floor residents by Couzens' Coordinator of 
ment procedures which took place in 1994. Cornell has yet Residence Education Edwin Mayes. Housing Information to be brought to trial on any of the eight complaints. The Director Alan Levy said that during the past three years, the sexual harassment proceedings were initiated by the University has on four occasions charged entire tloors for College of Arts and Sciences in response to complaints filed vandalism without proof of who committed the offense. by four former undergraduate females against Maas. An Housing officials were unable to estimate the total amount elected faculty committee of the arts college, the billed in all of the incidents. Ann Arbor attorney David Cahill Professional Ethics Committee, found that Maas "repeated­said the University's group-billing policy is illegal under the 
ly behaved both unprofessionally and inappropriately in his property damage section of the Michigan Landlord-Tenant relationship with [three of] these students, and that in Relationships Act. "A landlord cannot just claim the tenant effect this behavior constituted sexual harassment." In the caused damages," Cahill said. "If the tenant says, 'no this is case of the fourth student, Maas was found to have also not my damage,' the landlord has to sue the tenant for dam­committed sexual harassment. ages in Circuit Court." 
• UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA • UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA 

Toxic leak sparks lawsuit Study to show effects of caffeine 
MINNEAPOLIS, Minn. GAINESVILLE. Fla. 
A class action suit accusing a southeast Minneapolis Students who drink soda and coffee may see caffeine as milling company of exposing area residents to a toxic fumi­harmless, but a study being done by the clinical psycholo­gant leaves the door open for University community mem­gy department may reduce the amount of caffeine stu­bers to join in. Nine people have officially filed a suit dents consume by showing them its side effects. The against Archer Daniels Midland Milling Co. The company study, scheduled to be completed by summer 1998, is owned a building fumigated by Industrial Fumigants, Inc. headed by 27 -year-old graduate student Shannon The fumigating company is also a defendant in the suit. Jackson. Jackson said it targets students who are regular The building in question is a mill that is connected to sur­coffee drinkers -at least one cup a day. "Caffeine makes rounding buildings by underground pipes and tunnels. people focus on extreme things, such as anxiety, and we Attorneys for the plaintiffs said University employees and want to steer people away from that," Jackson said. Two students could have been exposed to a toxic chemical. An of the main points of the study are that caffeine is an official for the mill could not be reached for comment addictive drug and some students abuse it. Jackson added Tuesday. In the past, the company and its attorneys have that there are several types of caffeine disorders. refused requests for interviews related to the chemical According to the "Diagnoses and Statistical Manual of exposure. The suit comes nearly nine months after the Mental Disorders" these include caiTeine intoxieation, caf­death of Minneapolis sculptor Santos Fernandez, 54, who feinism, caffeine-induced anxiety disorder and caffeine­had a studio in a nearby building. induced sleep disorder. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather<B> forecast for noon, Thursday, April 2.
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
AccuWeather"' forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
H L 
i 



Thursday ~ 53 38 Friday 48 36 Saturday 55 35 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1998 AccuWeather, Inc. 
PrBSSUffJ 


4,~,~988 i) ~ 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy 



HIGH  LOW  SHOWERS  RAIN  T-STORMS  FLURRIES  SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  PT. CLOUDY  CLOUDY  
Atlanta  76  56  Denver  44  28  New York  62  45  
Baltimore  65  38  Honolulu  79  64  Phoenix  67  47  
Boise  58  36  Indianapolis  56  40  Pittsburgh  50  38  
u Chicago  54  36  Miami  84  72  Seattle  54  42  
Cloudy Dallas ...........·~·-'"·"'··~.... --.....~ ....._.;_;  80 50 New Orleans 79 62 ....._...._.;. .... ·-~----­.......................................... ~· .. ~  ..  St Louis 64 -.. ,.-.-..-" ..-.-.­ 47  


--------------~--·----~------------------------------~~-----------~-­
Thursday, April2, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
• STUDENT SENATE 




Cesaro names officials; student criticizes The Observer 
ByTIMLOGAN Pangborn senator Susan claiming that this put him in a News Writer Roberts, Brian O'Donoghue of negative light. 
Keough, Keenan representative 'This is the second time in two 
Approval of officers, explana­Matt Mamak and off-campus semesters that I've been offend­tion of senate committees and senator Mike Doyle will sit on ed by something printed in discussion of an article in the CLC. Lyons senator Melissa something I paid for," she said, Wednesday's edition of The Balchunas and Breen-Phillips reminding senators. of the con­Observer were among the topics senator Reah Gertken were troversial Oct. 31 "Men About discussed at the first Student elected to join the Financial Campus" comic which sparked Senate meeting of the 1998-99 Management Board. concerns about racial sensitivi­term, which began with the A series of student govern­ties on Notre Dame's campus. leaders of student government ment officials were brought up She voiced concern over the calling for a successful year. for senate approval by Cesaro. fact that The Observer, as an 
"The office of the president is These officials include the independent newspaper, is not looking forward to working with prospective chief of staff, con­accountable to anyone within the senate in the next year," troller, academic delegate and the administration, and thus said student body president executive coordinators. They students have no recourse when Peter Cesaro, who hoped to will be voted on next week. they are offended by its con­increase cooperation between Walsh Hall resident Cheryl tents. Further, she noted, every the senate and the Executive Igiri addressed the senate, ask­student pays six dollars each Cabinet in the future. "We're all ing them to take action concern­semester for The Observer. working for the same thing." ing an Associated Press article "We can't tell The Observer 
The senate selected several of printed in Wednesday's issue of what to do, but there should be its officers last night. Student The Observer about Kimberly some accountability," Igiri con­body secretary Mike Palumbo Ann Dunbar. She is charged tinued. "If you hurt someone ... was unanimously approved to with embezzlement and has you should be held responsible." hold that position in the senate. allegedly given jewelry, clothing "The Observer hides behind Former secretary Mark Higgins and trips to 12 former and cur­its neat disclaimer of indepen­was chosen as senate parlia­rent Notre Dame football play­dence, but I don't think that's mentarian. a position he will ers from 1993-98. fair," she declared. "How inde­hold for the entire student gov­Igiri specifically spoke of The pendent can you be if I'm paying ernment. It was also announced Observer's use of a picture of for your existence?" 
that Phil Donner. senate repre­former Irish free safety Jarvis Igiri, as well as several sena­mendation to the newspaper Mamak. sentative from Old College, will Edison in the article. Edison has tors, suggested actions which that it not permit such incidents ''I'm not looking for blood, I be the body's chaplain. a child with Dunbar, but is not could be taken in response to to occur in the future. don't want anyone fired over 
The senate elected its repre­being charged in any way in the the article. One was a required "This would send a message this," stated Igiri. "I think this is sentatives to the Campus Life case. She protested the fact that session on diversity sensitivity that we're not going to tolerate a case where The Observer can Council and the Financial Edison's picture was used in the training for Observer staffers, this. It would help make them be educated ... This is not an Management Board as well. story, instead of Dunbar's, another was a Senate recom-more accountable," said isolated incident." 


Asian-American week includes literary discussion 
By AMELIA CHRISTENSEN Malloy, focused primarily on the president and president-elect of the cultural differences between to widen your cultural horizon in News Writer issues presented in the book and the Asian-American Association. first and second generation today's culture. I've found not how they applied to [both the "It also provides us with an Asian-Americans," said Jackie only travel, but the creative arts 
A literary roundtable met to Asian-American student's life] opportunity to discuss Asian­Woo, treasur­to properly aid in the education discuss the book "The Kitchen on campus and cross-cultural American literature and culture er of the of other cultures, along with for­God's Wife" by Chinese­dialogue. with Father Malloy while we get American mal studies," Malloy said. American author Amy Tan "The roundtable presents us to know him a little bit," he said. A s i a n The literary roundtable was Tuesday as part of the Asian­with both the opportunity to The issue of societal influences Association. one of many Asian-American American Association's Festival share culture and how the expe­and the generation transition The transi­Heritage Week activities. The and Asian Heritage Week. riences of the characters in the within the family structure dom­tion into the week will conclude with a show­
The roundtable discussion, led book compare with our own," inated most of the discussion. American cul­ing of the movie "Dragon" and a 
by University President Father said Justin Liu, current vice "The book made me think of ture makes career options discussion with many Asian­Asian-Pacific Notre Dame Americans· of Alumni. 
any genera-The focus of the Asian­tion question how to incorporate American Association's Heritage the values, traditions and Week, themed "Asian­lifestyle of their Asian culture Americans in the Arts," is to pre­into their American culture. sent the Asian culture in a vari­
"One of the things I've found is ety of ways including the cele­that film, music, literature and bration of food, film, dance and poetry have been vicarious ways literature. 
J Recycle The Observer. I 

Anyone interested in helping plan our last year at Notre Dame, please stop by the class office, 213 LaFortune for an informational sheet, or come to an informational meeting Monday, April 6 at 7:30 p.m. on the 2nd floor of LaFortune. 
• Pep Rally's Class Dinners .. BW 3's, Bruno's 
• Class Masses .. Ring Blessing 
• Fundraising .. T-Shirts 
• Sr. Scrapbook 
•Web Page 


President: Peter Cesaro 
._I--­

The president updates the senate on Executive 
Cabinet activities and must approve most resolutions. 

Vice-President: Andrea Selak 
I.____ The vice-president serves as chairperson of the senate and presides over its meetings. 
Secretary: Michael Palumbo 
I The secretary keeps the senate minutes and records. 

Parliamentarian: Mark Higgins 
I The parliamentarian advises the senate on constitutional regulations and procedures. 

Chaplain: Phil Donner 
I._---The chaplain is the Old College representative and leads the senate innovation. Financial Management
CLC Representatives: 
Board Representatives: Matt Mamak 
Melissa Balchunas 
Brian O'Donoghue Rhea Gertken 
Susan Roberts 
Bridget Tomes (alternate)Drew Olejnik (alternate) 
.The Observer/Dave Pienin 

TO ALL DEPENDABLE AND. EFFECTIVE LEADERS 
~------------------------------------,
I 

Student Business Board General: 
I 


Manager for the 98-99 : academic year. : 
I 

Duties will include oversight of the finances for the Irish Gardens, Adworks, and ND Video as well as other administrative duties. 
~-----------------------------------­
~----------------------------------------,
*Applications can be picked up in the Student Activities 315 LaFortune. 
*Questions call Crystal at 243~8769 
*Applications due by April 8th at . 
1 

4:00 p.m. : 
----------------------------------------~ 

Thursday, April 2, 1998

page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 


Eldred 
continued from page 1 
enrollment will be hiring a vice president for enrollment management, which Eldred said is a method that many colleges use and has been in existence for the past 10 to 15 years. 
Another development Eldred discussed was the bond issue, which will be a concern for the next two years. 
"The Board of Trustees authorized us to borrow up to $30 million to enhance our campus," Eldred said. "The major piece of that money will go to technology." 
These technology improve­ments will include wiring resi­dence halls to allow every stu­dent to have simultaneous access to computers. 
"This is a significant enhancement for Saint Mary's College and I think it indicates the commitment the Board has to making sure that we are state-of-the-art technolog­ically," Eldred said. 
The rest of the bond money will be used for new windows, fire safety, energy manage­ment and improving furniture in campus buildings as well as replacing some furniture in residence halls. 
In closing, Eldred took a moment to discuss the recent controversy that surrounded her denial of club status to The Alliance. 
"We can and should find ways to express varying points of view and to be always sure that we are doing that respectfully," Eldred said. 
"Then [we should! be able to discuss openly and express varying points of view in order to compromise when that seems to be the appropriate direction in which to go," she commented, citing the com­promise that was reached in the forming of the Feminist Collective. 
r---~-­


Ireland 
continued from page 1 
about the French Revolution of 1789 to explain what was once described by William Butler Yeats as Burke's "anti­moderism." 
"According to Burke, it is power that makes it difficult to differentiate between the real and the phantasmal," Deane said. "This power pro­duces a conversion technique between the actual and the theoretical. 
"For example, [French theo­rist Jean Jacques) Rousseau, who Burke called 'the great apostle of benevolance,' took the very real human emotion of love and changed it to a 


Kernan 
continued from page 1 

Children's Defense Fund, for­mer President of Ireland Mary Robinson, South African President Nelson Mandela and Andrew Young. 
"It was ridiculous," said for­mer student body president Matt Griffin, who led the then­junior class. "They [Notre Dame) wanted personal con­tacts for all six people we sug­gested, and that is a lot to be demanding of a student, espe­cially in the time frame we were given." 
Said Moore, "It is absolutely not true that [the University] did not take those suggestions seriously. 
"It isn't a matter of us hav­ing an official reason [for the selection]," he added. "In reality, we have a whole bas­ketful of reasons." 
BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

A South Bend native and St. Joseph County Iligh School alumnus, Kernan graduated 
The U111venlty of Notr<; Dun1e Depurtment of Music p1·esents 
I I  Notre Dame Chorale and Chamber Orchestra perfornung  
Haydn's  
)  ':_Creation  
8:45p.m., Thursday, April2 Basilica of the Sacred Heart  
8 p.m., Friday, April 3 Church of Loretto, Saint Mary's  
The concert is tree und open to the public.  

very theoretical concept of 'benevolence,"' Deane said. "[Rousseau] was said to preach benevolence and prac­tice cruelty, which brings him into the terrible realm of modernity." 
Deane added that Burke's writings about the exclusion of Irish Catholics from the gov­erning of Ireland and the end of the 18th century was an example of the theoretical, modern aspect of policy over­taking the real, traditional aspect. 
"This was an exclusion that was not native to the British constitution," he said. "It cre­ated an unreal system." 
In addressing Burke's state­ments about the younger gen­eration in Ireland, Deane claimed that it fueled this view 
from Notre Dame with a gov­ernment degree and two monograms for playing on the baseball team. 
His six-year service to the 
U.S. Navy began in 1968; four years later, while flying over North Vietnam, he was shot down served 11 months as a prisoner of war. His awards for his Navy service include the Navy Commendation medal, two Purple Hearts and the Distinguished Flying Cross. 
After winning the 1987 South Bend mayoral race, Kernan developed cooperative projects with University presi­dent Father Edward Malloy that included the South Bend Center for the Homeless, the of a descent into modernism. 
"What he saw was a genera­tion of people that had con­stantly and consistently become ghosts of their par­ents," Deane said. "These peo­ple were not only a pale shade of the previous generation, but they had lost the capacity to feel. Their hearts had become har-d. They had learned not to feel and were learning not to think. 
"Human nature had changed," he said. "Fury had replaced loyalty as the driving force in society. People could kill for ideas." 
Deane's address was part of the last day of the Great Irish Rebellion Conference and the first day of the American Society for Eighteenth Century Studies (ASECS) Conference, a 
National Youth Sports Program and Christmas in April, an annual housing rehabilitation effort that involves volunteers from Notre Dame and the South Bend community. 

Got News? Call The Observer 

1-5323 
meeting of more than 800 scholars from 25 countries. 
The ASECS Conference will last until Sunday night and feature seminars all day long on various topics regarding the 18th century. 
Sean O'Huiginn, Irish ambassador to the United States, was present at Deane's address and at the reception that followed. 
"Since I came to Washington, !D.C.,] a few months ago, it has been my ambition to visit Notre Dame, which has been a very, very great part of the Irish legend," he said in introducing Deane. "I think that it is a tribute to the bridge between the Irish government and Notre Dame that this conference can be held here." 
Kernan won the lieutenant governorship in 1996, and in that capacity he serves as president of the state Senate, director of the Department of Commerce and commissioner of agriculture. 



CLASS of 1998 
SENIOR FELLOW AWARD 
prof or faculty member who has 
made a contribution to our class 
~®~Q[m\IJQ®~~ ~®W [3~Q~@ £~~~lPI1~® 
DUE FRIDAY APRIL 3rd 
mail: class.of.1998@nd.edu Campus Mail: 213 LaFun ~oling take§ pla.«:e ~Len pur«:L·a.§ing SR. Week Tix 
Call your mom. Tell evefyone you're calling your girl. 

1-800-COLLECT ® 
/ 
------~-------­

Thursday, April 2, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Peace misses deadline in Angola 
Angola 
Angola's rival factions failed to meet a deadline to implement a 1994 peace pact, but a delegation of former rebels arrived in the capital Wednesday promising to com­plete the final stages, U.N. officials said. The peace process, which ended two decades of civil war, has been repeatedly delayed by lin­gering mistrust between the government and the UNITA movement. The accord was sup­posed to have been completed by Tuesday. But UNITA must still hand ovel" control of its central highland strongholds of Bailundo and Andulo, 180 miles south of the capital of Luanda, as well as relinquish its hold on five other provincial municipalities. In addition, UNITA was to have shut down its radio sta­tion, but it was still broadcasting Wednesday, U.N. spokesman Juan-Carlos Brandt said. U.N. officials said a UNITA dele­gation led by its vice president, Antonio Dembo, arrived Wednesday in Luanda and was met by government representatives and President Clinton's special envoy, Paul Hare. 

Communists show well in Ukranian elections 
KIEV, Ukraine 
President Leonid Kuchma's administration and his newly elected allies in parliament urged cooperation Wednesday on economic reforms, saying communists' strong showing in the vote was a warning from impatient voters. A preliminary but full count of the votes from Sunday's balloting showed the Communist Party getting more than a quar­ter of the 450 seats in the legislature. Other leftists who capitalized on stalled reforms and falling living standards also won seats. "A meaningful quantity of people voted against the poor lives they lead today, and this is a good warning for those conducting a policy of reforms in this country," said President Leonid Kuchma's administration chief, Yevhen Kushnaryov. "People must see results," Kushnaryov said. 

La-Z-Boy inventor dies in recliner 
MONROE, Mich. 
Edwin Shoemaker lived the La-Z-Boy life to the very end. He invented the plushly padded, rocking-and-reclining chair, and he died in one, slipping away after settling in for a nap at the age of 90. But the man who left a legacy of leather-bound leisure was no lounger himself. "This is a guy that wanted to be productive every moment," says Matthew Switlik, director of the Monroe County Historical Museum. "Mr. Shoemaker was in no way ready to lounge around-he had to be busy." 

S&P 500: Composite1108.15 Volume: +6.40 678,000,000
+68.5 1 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
COMPANY  TICKER  %CHANGE  s GAIN  PH ICE  
GREAT PINES WTR  GPWC  38.78  1.1875  ~.25  
UROMED CORP  URMD  38.~6  0.6250  2.25  
THINK NEW IDEAS  THNI  38.23  6.5469  23.67  
AER05Y5TEM5 ENG  AERS  33.33  0.5000  2.00  
BELL TECilNOL·WT5  BELTW  29.33  1.3125  5.75  
BIGGEST PERC ENTAGE LOSERS  
SALOMON  NXS  97.32  9.0625  0.250  
PROSPECT HI  PHY  66.16  8.1875  ~.187  
OXIGENE INL-WTS  OXGNW  43.75  3.5000  4.500  
ZENITH ELEC CORP  ZE  31.13  2.0625  4.562  
AXIOM INC  AXIM  29.00  1.8125  4.343  


ASSOCIATED PRESS 
BORDEAUX 

Addressing the jury for a final time, Maurice Papon spoke with defi­ance and anger Wednesday, saying that to convict him would humiliate France around the world. 
After six months of testimony, three judges and nine civilians sat down to decide whether the former official of France's pro-Nazi Vichy regime was guilty -more than 50 years ago -of complicity in crimes against humanity. Only eight votes are needed to convict. 
The deliberations were expected to last through the night. The jury must answer 764 questions, a figure based on a formula for the number of victims and crimes. 
Papon, 87, is the most senior offi­cial of-the Nazi-allied Vichy regime ever to stand trial for war crimes. He is charged with ordering the arrests and deportations of 1,690 Jews from .Bordeaux during World War II; all but a handful died at Auschwitz. 
His remarks brought to a close a long and bitter trial that meant dif­ferent things to different people. For some, it was seen as the last chance for France to confront in a court­room its painful past of collabora­tion with Nazi Germany. But Papon's defense stressed that he was an indi­vidual, and that an acquittal would not be an acquittal of Vichy. That regime, he said, already has been convicted in the public mind. Papon himself, though, was without apolo­gies for either Vichy or himself Wednesday. 
He rarely evoked the victims of the Holocaust, but instead portrayed himself as a victim of "the saddest chapter in French legal history." "Sometimes I ask myself, why me?" he said. 
Speaking for 36 minutes in a clear voice, he seemed close to tears only when evoking the memory of his wife, who died last week. He said the prosecution had distorted the truth and "cast aside the law to obey high­er orders." 
"This is what is called a political trial," he said. 
He told the jurors they were his last hope, and warned them the world was watching. "I say, be care­ful that France does not get hurt by this verdict outside our borders," he said. "It would be a humiliation for our nation to be linked with Nazi Germany in its responsibility for Jewish genocide." 
It was only Nazi Germany that should be condemned, he said. 

page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Calendar of Events 
LOVE: It Had to be You 

Thursday, April 2 Presenter: Rev. Paul Doyle, C.S.C. The love that brings together man and woman is rooted in God's ten­der love Notre Dame Faculty and Staff Music: Voices of Faith 
LOVE: I'll Be There For You 
Monday, April 6 Presenter: Rev. Michael Baxter, c.s.c Friendship is the instrument by which God reveals God'sde,~ep and abiding love for us.• Department of TheologyFacultyand. Students Music: Cotnemporary Choir 


PALM/PASSION SUNDAY 
LAETARE SUNDAY 

Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica Saturday, April 4 
5:00p.m. Rev. James E. McDondald, C.S.C. 
Sunday, April 5 

10:00 a.m. Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. 
12:00 noon Rev. David J. Scheildler, C.S.C. 
Vespers Sunday, April 5 
7:15p.m. 
•

Sr. Maureen Minihane, C.S.C. 
Scripture Readings 

1st Reading Isaiah 50:4-7 2nd Reading Philippians 2:6-11 Gospel Luke 22~14·23, 56 
Hey You Seniors Out There! 
Jim Lies, C.S.C 
Well, we've entered the home stretch. I wish I could provide 
here some pearl of wisdom that could make these final days at Notre 
Dame all that you would have them be. There won't prove enough 
time in each day, especially as the weather improves, to spend with 
friends and to visit those places on this campus which mean the most 
to you... much less study! 
As I think back, oh so long ago, on my waning days at the University of St. Thomas in St. Paul, what I remember most are the late nights spent with those who had come to mean so much to me over the years. The gatherings I remember with particular fondness weren't the occasions when we happened into one another as we often did in the places we normally frequented. It was those inten­tional times, those times that we went out of our way to gather and to do something special together, that I remember most now. As our days together grew fewer we found ourselves particularly attentive to just such gatherings ... an overnight at the lakeside cottage of one of our number... a Mass that we coordinated with a priest friend at one of the off-campus houses ... a walk with a friend on the meandering paths beside the Mississippi which borders the campus. 
I remember one night in particular which seems almost corny in the retelling but which meant the world to me then... and does still. Eight of us who had been particularly close during our years together at St. Thomas decided that we weren't going to leave that place with­out ritualizing in some way all that we had known together and cele­brate all the ways that we had grown together. Although we were all busy folks, the reality of our imminent departure compelled us to make the time that we seemed never to have. Our schedules dictated that we would gather very late and very local. We settled on a week­end night in late April. We decided that we would head to the other side of the river by car and then wade out to a large sandbar which was easily accessed from that side and which had always beckoned us from the campus side ... however much the signs to the contrary might have discouraged more timid spirits. 
It was Midnight before we arrived with our provisions and a guitar in tow. We settled into a large circle, stoked up a small, albeit illegal, campfire and proceeded to remember, and to sing and to pray. We didn't really have an agenda, and Idon't remember that any one of us felt particularly competent to lead prayer, but we just knew that it was what we had to do... we knew it was, somehow, the men and women we had become over the years together. We had become peo­ple who knew that we were somehow bound up not only with each other, but with God ... and because of God. As we entertained... and feared... life beyond the community that we had come to know and love, we knew ourselves to need something more than each other to sustain and nurture us... and in some sense, something more than our­selves to keep us together. We were headed in a variety of directions and vocations... to great professional opportunities, to the Peace Corps, to professional and graduate schools ... and to unemployment. We talked and we laughed and we cried... and as the sun was peaking up in the eastern sky we each took time to pray aloud for one another and for those things which most consumed our minds and our hearts on that early spring morning. 
There was nothing particularly noteworthy about this gather­ing other than the fact that it happened... that eight people took a little time to be together and to mark the holiness of their days together. It will surely go unnoted in the recorded history of human events, but for those of us who were there it is one of the more memorable moments of our young lives. There is irony in the fact that the moment during which we gathered to remember all that mattered most to us has become the moment we most remember. I'll close by simply urging each of you to attend to just such moments. Think twice before you say yet again that you're just too busy or that you don't have enough time... it's all the time you've got. 
Jim Lies, C.S.C 
(Z\MPUSMINISTRY 


Thursday, April 2, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
• MEDICA!.. SERIES
Prof tells of Madeleva's career 
By JACKIE HENSLER News Writer 
Saint Mary's College stu­dents gathered Tuesday evening in Haggar Parlor to hear Gail Mandell, professor of humanistic studies, speak about Sister Madeleva as a leadership figure. 
"Leadership doesn't occur in a vacuum," Mandell said. "You can be a leader in different ways and in different stages of your life." 
Mandell described Madeleva's life to the audi­ence and explained the histo­ry of her time. 
Madeleva drove the Saint Mary's community to higher depths in 1934 upon taking the position of president of the College, according to Mandell. 
During this time in history, America was struggling through one of its darkest periods, the Great Depression. 
Colleges were experiencing low enrollment and Saint Mary's was no exception, Mandell said. In this time, enrollment had fallen drasti­cally because parents were not able to send their daugh­ters to private institutions, opting instead for public col­leges and universities. 
Madeleva had founded her own school in Utah, but it was struggling to succeed. There were troubles with the faculty and student body, and Madeleva was bombarded with problems, according to Mandell. 
"Sister Madeleva was called upon to be the next president of Saint Mary's College, a posi­tion she did not want to undertake," Mandell noted. 
But she took the position as the new College president with full force. First, she decided not to bring the economic sta­tus of the school to the fore-
Doctors communicate front. Instead, she decided that 
health issues of aging 
a library 

must be built 
By TOM ENRIGHT
to insure 
News Writer 
credibility as a college. 
Drs. Katherine Look and
"Sister 
Jerry Hochstetler addressed
Mad eleva 
medical issues related to
wanted a 
aging in men and women in
wonderful 
the third segment of a six­
faculty," 
part mini-medicat series yes­
Mandell 
terday.
said. "She 
While Look discussed issues
resolved to 
of menopause, breast cancer
send the 
and heart disease in women,
Sisters to 
Hochstetler focused on
school for 
prostate problems in men andmore educa­
possible treatments for male
tion." 

impotence.
Mandell 
"I want all of you to know
emphasized 
that hormones can also help
t h a t 
you prevent disease," the
Mad eleva 
Indiana University professor
lightened 
of obstetricts and gynecology
the regula­tions, even Gail Mandell, professor of humanistic. studies at Saint said while discussing the use Mary's College, spoke Tuesday about the role of Sister of hormones to decrease the
relaxing a 
Madeleva, a former president, in the College's history. effects of menopause.
campus ban 
Look also explained that
on smoking. 
elicit a civilization," said 

family history, cigarette
"She had to deal with criti­
Mandell. "The things she built 

smoking and obesity all
cism from faculty, staff and 
in terms of a sacred ground 

increased a woman's risk for
students," Mandell said of 
and holy place for Saint 

heart disease.
Made leva. 
Mary's students were.. her ulti­

"Heart disease is a more
Mandell highlighted 
mate goals." 

common problem [than breast
Madeleva's impressive leader­
Mandell stressed that the 

cancer]. Unfortunately the
ship roles at Saint Mary's, 
Saint Mary's community still 

media tends to consider it
which included developing a 
has to deal with some of the 

more a man's disease," she
theology department, imple­
same worries Madeleva faced 

said.
menting racial diversity, 
in her time. Tuition is continu­

Look finally discussed
building a cultural oasis 
ing to rise for private educa­

women's risks of developing
known as Moreau Hall and tion and debts are increasing. 
osteoporosis and examined
developing a vision for the 
"Yesterday's thinking 

the use of estrogen replace­
College. 
revolved around integration of 

ment therapy to treat prob­
This vision forwarded the 
a racially diverse college," 

lems ranging from hot flashes
movement of a Christian cul­
Mandell said. "Today's think­

to depression. She recom­
ture to create a humanistic 
ing relies on what we should 

mended the
studies tract; the program was do about gays and lesbians." use of various 
types of pills and anti-depres­
the first of its kind. 
She suggested that the 

sants to treat these
Madeleva's vision for Saint 
answer may lie in creating 

menopausal symptoms.
Mary's future started small 
leaders within the college that 

Look advocated exercise
but grew to great heights. She 
stress academic success as 

and a healthy diet to mini­
became the voice of change, 
well as leadership qualities by 

mize both osteoporosis and
Mandell explained. 
relying on Madeleva's exam­

artery disease. But despite
"Sister Madeleva wanted to 
ple. 

preventative measures, Look 
noted that about 235,000 women will succumb to heart disease this year. 
Hochstetler, a practicing urologist from Elkart, Ind., focused on the male prostate and problems that could arise from it. After explaining that the prostate grows with the onset of puberty, Hochstetler listed the symptoms of vari­ous forms of prostatitis and discussed various treatments. 
"With the population grow­ing older, cost becomes a major factor," he noted. 
Hochstetler also focused on alpha blockers, which seem to decrease the symptoms of prostate problems by 45 per­cent. He recognized, howev­er, that sometimes treatment is not the best course. 
"Sometimes therapy is more problematic than the problem itself," Hochstetler said. 
Prostate cancer is another problem that men face, according to Hochstetler. He emphasized the options of waiting under careful obser­vation for low stage cancer as well as radiation therapy, surgery and hormone therapy for more serious cases. Each form of treatment, he said, carries its own advantages and possible complications. 
Hochstetler closed his lec­ture by discussing the causes and possible solutions to male impotence. He explained that treatments can include the use of medications, vacuum erectaid devices and injec­tions. 
Next week, the series will focus on primal emotions and will feature two speakers, including E. Mark Cummings of Notre Dame's psychology department. 

l:Aot somethiJt19 to say?
1998 N.A.A.C.P. 
lAse Obse~ve~ classifieds.
linage Awards CereiDony 
Presenting The: 
Athlete of The Year Community Service Award 
Erskine Peters Award 
Freshman ofThe Year 
Senior ofThe Year 
Plus Performances By: 
Blackburn African Dance Troupe. Alika Bryant, Vibe, Voices Of Faith, and many more... 
Friday April 3 
8:00p.m. 

/ 

$3 Donation Accepted At The Door 

page 8 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 2, 199~ 
Puerto Rico may vote in statehood plebiscite 
By BILL UNIOWSKI Assistant News Editor 
Tlw r1~cnnt passage of a House hill allowing Punrto Hican snlf-dntnrmination has brought thn possibility of Punrto Hican .-------­statnhood to the fordront. 
Thn bill 
(IIB85(J) nar­
rowly passed 
by a 209-208 
vot11 and calls 
for a 

~....---.­

plebiscite of Rossello the Puerto Hican people to choose between statehood, indepen­dence or its current common­wealth status. 
This issue also brings Puerto Hican Governor Pedro Rossell6, a 1966 Notre Dame graduate, into increased prominence as a member of the pro-statehood New Progressive Party. 
"The governor supports the bill because it could end up leading to statehood, but its more because this allows for government by consent," said George Shelton, director of communications for the Puerto Hican Federal Affairs Administration. 
The bill must now pass through the Senate and be signed by the President, but because of the close margin in the house, the bill may become a low priority and be held up in the Senate. 
"The ironic differenee between the Ilouse and Senate is that we had great support from the leadership of both parties in the Ilouse but had to convinee the rank and file," Shnlton said. "But in the Senate we have thorough rank and file support and need to convince the leadnrship." 
While at Notre Dame, Hossellll majored in chemistry and was selected top scholar­athlete as a member of the varsity tennis team. He went on to graduate from medical school at Yale University in 1970. 
Hossellll is serving his sec­ond term as governor, and this is the second recent attempt to make Puerto Hico the nation's 51st state. In a 1993 vote, statehood received 46.3 per­cent, while 48.(J percent of Puerto Hicans favored the commonwealth status. Only about 4 percent voted for inde­pendence. 
Opponents to Puerto Hican statehood point out that in past cases such as Alaska and Hawaii. the citizens voted overwhelmingly for statehood with 83 and 94 percent approval respectively. 
According to the bill, only Punrto Hicans living on the island have a right to vote in the plebiscite, while about 2.6 million Puerto Hicans who live on the U.S. mainland will not. 
"It should be only Puerto Hieans on the island," said Angela Borelli, assistant pro­fessional specialist of romance languages and literatures, who was born in Puerto Hico and lived there 22 years. "They are the ones that will live with the consequnnces of what hap­pens." 
Sandra Vera-Munoz, an assistant professor of accoun­tancy who was also born in Puerto Hieo, expressed similar reasoning for allowing only Puerto Hicans on the island to vote. 
"It makes sense, because essentially, the circumstances of Puerto Ricans in the states are different than the circum­stances of Puerto Hicans in Puerto Rico." 
Under the current common­wealth status, Puerto Ricans are considered U.S. citizens, although they do not have to pay federal income taxes and cannot vote for president. They are represented by one non-voting congressman, and 
U.S. companies doing business in Puerto Rico receive tax exemptions. 
Because Puerto Ricans speak Spanish as their native lan­guage, the issue of adopting English has become heated. Puerto Hicans learn English in school and Hossel\6 has re­established it as an official language. 
Opponents of statehood point out the troubles between Canada and French-speaking Quebec, but others believe that the geographical isolation of the island would help avoid that situation. 
"Most people can speak English. People are comfort­able with it an·d it's not a prob­lem with the majority of Puerto Hicans," Borelli said, pointing out that a newspaper is published in English and cable television exposes people to English as well. 
"Spanish should be kept in the homes, because it is part of our heritage," she added. 
Some believe that statehood for Puerto Hico would dispel myths and prejudices about the people of the island. 
"Another side of the coin is how will America see Puerto Hico as a state?" said Vera­Munoz, adding that people often eite outdated statistics about Puerto Hico. 
"Hossello has been instru­mental in improving public education and reducing the unemployment rate," she said. "Statistics are only getting bet­ter, and Puerto Hico is the most progressive eountry in the Caribbean." 


A Call to Order ... 

. . The Observer/Kristy Sutorius Following a prayer last n1ght, new members of the 1998-1999 Board of Governance were introduced at their. informal meetil!g. The board, led ~y ~tuden~ body president Sara Siefert and student body vice pre_s1dent Na~cy Midden, focused the1r d1scuss1on on an open house for seniors. The group also rev1ewed the 1ssues of a new human relations course, a leadership retreat, and a commissioning cere­mony planned for April. The next board meeting will take place next Tuesday in 306 Haggar. 
SMC celebrates poetry month 
BY SHANA'E TATE News Writer 
Saint Mary's will be celebrat­ing iambic pentameter, rhyming couplets and free verse throughout April as part of National Poetry Month. 
A variety of different activi­ties are planned "to celebrate how wonderful poetry is," according to Max Westler, asso­ciate professor of English. 
All around Saint Mary's earn­pus, posters have displayed the phrase "Give us your hair." This statement challenges cre­ative minds to write a poem about hair. 
"Hair is difficult to write about," said Joanne Lowery, English professor. "IIair plays an important [role in] our lives." 
The English department 

sponsored event sparks the first activity for the month. Although students should have submitted poems yesterday, the depart­ment will accept poems slightly past the deadline. The winner will be announced April 8, and the best poem will go on to a national contest. 
Next week, English professors Westler and Lowery will read poems and participate in a dis­cussion entitled, "What is it about Poetry?" This event will be held on April 7 in Haggar Parlor at Saint Mary's. 
"I think people who don't read poetry have a sense that poetry is narrow," said Westler. "However, good poetry is never that. Poetry is our most natural language." 
On Tues., April 14, at 12:30 p.m., Kathleen Norris will dis­cuss her work in room 317 Madeleva Ilall. 
Jessica Maich will read and discuss her experience in Notre Dame's M.F.A. program on Tues., April21, at 12:30 p.m. in Haggar Parlor. 
The third week in April will mark random acts of poetry week. People will burst into classes, read a poem and quickly leave. 
This will show students "how poetic discourse is different then other forms of discourse," Westler said. This activity will also suggest a variety of poetry for the students. 
Westler will be at Borders bookstore reading from his work on Thurs., April 9, at 7:30 
p.m. Maich, Lowery and Westler will be at Barnes and Nobles bookstore on Fri., April 24, at 7 p.m. for a reading group. 


TOUR GUIDE 
' 

APPLICATIONS 
The Admissions Office Needs s Tour Guides for the 98­gg Academic Year 1 Grace Hall or e-mail Susan Joyce-joyce.2@nd.edu Apply before Friday, April 17 
2 Tour Guides needed for this Summer 
Notre Dame Students Ideally from the south Bend Area Contact susan Joyce! 
.....-.......------~~-----­
Thursday, April 2, 1998 page 9 
--------~ --~---~---------­
VIEWPOINT 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Reinthaler Kyle Carlin 
AssiSTANT MANAGING EDITOR Heather MacKenzie 
NEWS EDITOR .................. Matthew Loughran ADVERTISING MANAGER ......................... Kris Klein VIEWPOINT EDITOR .................. Eduardo LiuJI AD DESIGN MANAGER ........................ Brett Huelat SPORTS EDITOR ...................... Kathleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER ..................... Michael Brouillet SCENE EDITORS............................ Sarah Dylag WEB ADMINISTRATOR .................. Jennifer Breslow 
Krisri Klitsch CONTROLLER .......•.........•.••••••••.••••••...Dave Rogero SAINT MARY'S EDITOR ............. Shannon Ryan PHOTO EDITOR .................. Kevin Dalum 
The Ob~rver is the independent newspaper published by the srudems of the: Universiry of NO[re Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administrauon ofeither institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chic{ Managing Editor. As-<iistam Managing Editor and depanmcm edirors. Commemaries, leners and columns presenr the views of the authors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoinr space i.s available wall members of the Noue Dame/S.tint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Contacting. The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Assistant ME 63 I -4541 Advertising 63 I -6900/8840 News/Photo 63 I -5323 Systems 631-8839 Sports 631-4543 Fax 631-6927 Scene//Saint Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu Day Editor/Viewpoint 63 I -5303 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu Office Manager/General Information 631-7471 News E-Mail observer.obsnews.l @nd.edu 

• POSTCARDS FROM MEXICO 
Chocolate is the Sweetest Narcotic 

Surprisingly, it is not cocaine or heroin that may be the most dangerous and addictive drug to be introduced over U.S. borders, but something far more com­mon. In spite of Mexico being recertified in the war against drugs by Attorney General Janet some weeks ago, Theobroma cacao continues to flood the streets of America. 

Bernadette Pampuch 
Combat is nearly useless, as cultivation of the cacao tree and its resulting seeds is as relatively easy as that of marijuana if a grower has the time and space. 
Originally, cacao was grown almost exclusively in South America. While most production has been moved to West Africa as demand has increased, Latin American production still poses a threat for the U.S. 
The Theobroma cacao tree grows to nearly 20 feet in height, has shiny green leaves and pink flowers. The perennial tree can be harvested several times annu­ally, and the resulting reddish-brown pod contains seeds that resemble almonds and are purple or ofT-white in color. The innocent exterior of the tree belies a chemical makeup with the highest con­centration of in any consumable plant in the world. 
Of course, phenylethylmine is the chem­ical produced in the brain when a person is in love, and we Americans eat 11 pounds of the stuff each year when we consume chocolate. 
Before chocolate was associated only with Hershey's, Nestle, and all-around all­Americaness, it had its beginnings in the Aztec empire of Mexico. 
In 1591, Spanish conqueror Hernan Cortes saw his adversary Montezuma take a sip of something called chocolatl from a golden cup. Cortes was much more interested in the gold of the cup until the Aztec emperor pointed out that what he was drinking was made of seeds so expensive that one hundred of them would buy a human slave. 
Chocolatl was a luxury drink reserved for only members of the Aztec royal court. In its finest form, it was (to quote the manuscripts of time) "finely ground, soft, foamy, reddish, bitter with chili water, aro­matic flowers, vanilla and wild bee honey." 
The dry climate of the Valley of Mexico made it impossible for the Aztecs to grow cocoa beans for themselves, and so tribute and taxa­tion paid for by the unlucky tribes they con­quered was often in the form of cocoa beans. 
Worship of Quetzalcotl figured prominently in Aztec religion, god of creation and agriculture who was also associated with chocolatl. One myth explains that Quetzalcoatl was forced to leave his land by iJ.IlOther god but left a legacy to>be forever enjoyed by his wor­shippers -the cocoa tree. 
Christopher Columbus had carried chocolatl seeds back to Spain with him some years earlier, but it was not until Cortes introduced the drink and the process of making it to the Spanish court that it became the sensation that it is today. The Spanish added sugar and honey to what was otherwise a bitter liq­uid and embraced it as their own, making it a drink so highly regarded that it was reserved only for members of the royal court. 
Spain managed to guard the secret of chocolate for nearly a hundred years. In 1615 a Spanish princess married Louis XVIII of France and in a fit of love (or per­haps revenge) slipped word of chocolate out across Europe: from France to England, Italy, Germany, Austria and Switzerland. It first immigrated to American shores in 1765. 
Strangely, until150 years ago, choco­late was always drunk and never eaten. Dutch, English and American cooking forces conspired to produce chocolate in 
the form of bars and sweets by utilizing condensed milk and cocoa butter. 
Cocoa seeds are commonly used in medicine, cosmetics, soups, and cola (Pop, for those of us from the Midwest). Chocolate does not cause acne, and con­tains a protein that inhibits bacterial growth on teeth. Women who crave chocolate at certain times of the moth are not crazy -chocolate contains magne­sium, which satisfies a magnesium defi­ciency that occurs near menstruation and yes, there is caffeine in your Hershey's bar, but not enough to keep you awake at night. One ounce of milk chocolate has 5mg of caffeine, as compared to 100-150 mg in a cup of coffee. 
Scientifically and tastefully, chocolate is pretty good to eat. Historically, it is just as interesting as the conquest of the New World. Chocolate was used to placate Hernan Cortes (The Aztecs mistook him for a returning Quetzalcoatl) and brought to the rest of the world after he was fin­ished destroying their culture. 
In the grand scheme of things, perhaps the destruction of one of the grandest and 
most advanced cultures of the Americas is not all that bad if it means that those of us who are not members of a royal court can eat chocolate. 
We have Mexico to thank for that. 
Bernadette Pampuch (SMC '97) lives in Mexico City and dances with the National Ballet Folklorico ofMexico in her spare time. Send mail to bpampuch@hotmail. com 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


• IJOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• QuoTE OF THE DAY 


·-------------­
VIEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, April 2, 1998 
---------·~-~-----~-·­

• THE BELLE OF SAINT MARY'S 
Wormy Ramblings 
Hypocritical, for Easter ts of Hate 
I
tions implies that the 'd like to demand full student and administrative attention to Baptists on campus hold 
the SMC Worm Plauge of 'lJ8. Out of nowhere on Tuesday beliefs apart and in oppo­
thousands of these disgusting worms appeared on road and . sition to the teachings of sidewalks all over campus, and I felt oppressed. The shuttle was the Catholic church. transformBd from an off-schedule mode of transportation to an Should their student off-schedule Worm Crusher From Hell. It was like something out group be dissolved'? The of Exodus. We kept checking the skies for locusts. I mean, there reality of the situation is hasn't been that many slimy underground creatures around here that Patricia O'Hara has since the Clinton campaign came through in '92. d"' chosen to vent her hate 
I waded through the worms with special care, because with the specifically at the homo-atmosphere the way it has been around here lately I feared an sexual community. There uprising of Student Action if I accidentally folded; spindled, or are many on campus who mutilated one. (A worm, 1 disagree with Catholic not a student.) There'd tea('.bing from the female be hundreds of members rectors who believe that of the Notre Dame/Saint '---....l.-----1-·they should be allowed to 
Mary Beth
Mary's Students For a become priests, to the Dnmocratic Worm former head of the theol· Society slapping up signs ogy department, Father reading "STOP NON-Richard McBrien. 
Ellis 
VEHTEBHAE AND NON­Some would argue that EXOSKELETON ANIMAL I sympathize with the KILLING" and "WilEN homosexual community YOU PHAY THE OUR FATHER, DO YOU SAY 'GIVE US THIS DAY because I am a Democrat. OUH DAILY BHEAD-TO EVERYONE BUT THE WORMS?'"; I assert that such convic· organizing rallies at which everyone passes around a petition tions stem from my advocating the right-of-way to worms on all campus sidewalks; , nature as a Christian. The and sending approximately 18,000 letters to The Observer 
homosexual community is strongly suggesting that we recycle the rapidly biodegradable 
Notre Dame's group of worm as, say, wind socks. 
outcasts. deserving of This leads me to my next obvious point, which of course is my 
Christian love just like Easter Sunday appearace on national television, when I will be 
II~ any other neighbor. Sadly extensively showcased in NBC's presentation of "Easter at Notre 

'-~the school's administra-Dame: A Celebration of I!ope." The University's Folk Choir served 
tion has resigned itself to as an excellent backdrop for my pivoltal role as a member of the 
play the role of the Basilica congregation. If those kids stick with me, they might just 
Pharisees, holding to get thier own NBC special some day. 
hard lined tradition I was skeptical once I heard that this would be an NBC produc­
rather than opening their tion. I struggled in from the snow to the Basilica that morning 
hearts. Let us pray that at half expecting a gigantic peacock logo draped over the altar and such a Catholic University a man standing in the sanctuary with an orange glove who coor­the spirit moves to open dinated Worship Time-Outs. To my great relief I saw instead their ears, that the deaf dumps and clumps of Easter 11owers, lilies included, the cost of will one day hear the which could probably buy me at least two texbooks next semes­voice of the students. ter. 
The show, when edited, will feature a very moving and entirely Liam Brennan faked prayer service. Over eight hours of Celebrating Hope, there Mar<:h 26, !998 were eight renditions of the opening hymn, four proclamations of the first reading, two Gospel processions, and three executions of a sprinkling rite, all of which was interspersed with such tract­• lETTER TO THE EDITOR tiona! Catholic liturgical nuances as a makeup artist touching up the celebrant with foundation and hair spray and directors yelling "Could you do that again, with more feeling this time'?" to the student lectors. 
Guns Make Murder Too Easy 
Somehow I wound up in the first row in the congregation, prob­ably because I elbowed four small children and an old married I was seriously disturbed by quency. Much more time and only defense against which, of couple out of the way, and every time I looked up there were two Nakasha Ahmad's column pub­effort would be required in tak­course, is G. Gordon Liddy's tried men with a camera in my face, which I ~ lished April 1. Was she joking, ing another's life, and many who and true method of shooting first couldn't understand, in as much it was / ~u) -­keeping in spirit with April Fool's feel the urgency to do so would and asking questions later. 
Zit Time of the Month and I can fath-Day? either have the notion pass or Further, the accidental deaths om at least 40 billion better ways to Many, including Speaker Newt judge the task not worth the that result from guns can notobserve Easter than staring at Gingrich, have employed argu­effort. simply be dismissed as a neces­doseups of the acne of a soon-to­ments similar to her's, mainly I also suggest that Ahmad sary casualty in the defense of be-unemployed English major. I that people will kill people by compare the situation in the the American home. These acci­figured out the big attraction means other than guns if guns United States to those in coun­dental deaths simply add to thewhen Folk Choir director Steve are made unavailable. But the tries with stricter gun laws. I number of lives taken intention­Warner said to me, guitar in hand, fact remains that guns make spent a semester in the Australia ally by guns; they do not subtract "Your hat is the star of the show. 
killing easier than just about any program during my junior year, from them. Of course, byThe directors keep talking about how " weapon, excepting those only and while I was there 35 tourists Ahmad's reasoning, if gunsEASTEH it is!" "' authorized for military use. and guides were killed at a weren't available in the home, You should know that I look like a major Gingrich's argument against prison museum in Tasmania. the number of children stabbing tool in hats, which is why I always appP-ar in public bareheaded gun control, stated in his mani­This was a complete and utter themselves to death and drown­except on Easter Sunday. when I dust 1,ff this straw thing that I festo "To Renew America," shock to a nation in which the ing in toilet.<; would most likely trimmed with lace while under the influence of codine. I wore it claims that the most horrifying policemen do not even carry skyrocket. JJmiting the means byto the taping solely as an amusement factor, but I am glad that it murders of recent years (Nicole guns, much less average citizens. which people may kill themselvesserved to please Chris. 
Brown Simpson, the Son of Sam, The people of Australia had no or others does not dictate that Chris was the Voice of God. Every now and then we'd hear this Ted Bundy, et. al.) were commit­idea how to deal with the situa­they will definitely lind a way tobooming disembodied male voice iddressing those of us inside ted not with guns but by some of tion, since nothing like this had do so. Again, making killing the Basilica, but no one never saw the source of it. He was the the instruments Ahmad suggests. ever occurred in their country. more difficult would most likely Wizard of Catholic Oz. The directors communicated with Chris But as a reviewer of the Hospitals were overrun, few, if make it much less common.
via Trudy the Time-Life Operator headsets over whicli he could Speaker's book noted, "It's not any, surgeons had dealt with bul­Finally, I would ask Ahmad to apparantly shoot death rays when displeased, because everyone the drive-by axe murders we're let wounds before then, and they examine her own atmosphere,was deeply concerned with appeasing him: "Chris wants the worried about, Newt!" Truly, had never dreamed of training one in which firearms are notchoir standing for this part." "You, in the brown dress-Chris does anyone fear a gang smoth­and employing "grief counselors" allowed. I am not certain of the thinks you should change majors." "Chris doesn't like the way ering, or could the St. Valentine's that seem all too common in laws governing the Saint Mary's you're walking, Father." "Chris wants the Brewers moved back Day Massacre have occurred had America. An event like this has campus, but I know that Du Laeinto the American Leauge." 
the assailants used knives? No. become almost commonplace in does not allow the possession of At one point a director held his hand against his headset, then And neither would have the our own country, so common firearms in student housing. Howturned to me and said, "Chris loves your hat." 1've been afraid to Jonesboro incident occurred. that we have people actually many shootings have occurred attake it off since. 
Again, the fact remains that trained to deal with such events Notre Dame this year'? Last 
guns expedite killing, and limit­if and when the need arises. year? The year before? It looks
The hat ofMary Beth Ellis may be seen on Channel 16 at 10:30 
ing the availability of guns would And my Australian friends as if gun control works there, 
11M on Eas~er Sunday. Chris thinks you should watch. Mary Beth 
severely cut down on the sheer never expressed to me any and I don't recall reading any 
Ellis is a junior English writing/political science major at Saint 
number of murders that occur lament over a loss of freedom statistics on increased stabbings 
Mary's College who hopes to become a worm-rights advocate. 
each year in the United States. It due to their strict gun laws. They or smotherings.
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and 
would be much more of an effort felt no need for guns since they 
not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
for a murder to be committed, did not fear guns, nor did they Ethan Hayward and increasing its difficulty fear government "jack-booted Notre Dame Class of 1997 would no doubt decrease its frP-thugs" invading their homes, the Washington, DC 
VIEWPOIN'I'
Thursday, April 2, 1998 page 11 
• Out OF THE TW!GHUGHT 
The KKK Is Coming: What Are You Going To Do About It? 
I believe that Knute Rockne once said, and forgive me if I misquote, "Nobody, and I mean nobody, comes into our house and pushes us around!" Well, guess whose coming to our house. That's right, its 
:================~~~~~~~;every­

body's favorite 
reminder 
of a past 
we wish 
would die 
Brandon 
-the Ku 
Klux Klan. 
This year 
they will 
be sport­
ing their traditional and oh-so-stylish white hood and robe as they usher in the Halloween spirit a lit­tle early for the proud people of Elkhart. So, if you want to dress up in a ridiculous costume and parade around like a goofy looking version of the boys who got their butts kicked in World War II, then please travel to Elkhart, Indiana on Apr. 11. 
However, if instead, you are saddened and a little bit sickened by these people's pitiable ignorance and want to enlighten them-perhaps you should consider coming to a different sort of rally this Saturday -a rally for unity and brotherhood among all walks of life. 
Seriously, although it is easy to make fun of some­thing as ridiculous as the Klan, their ignorance and hatred are real. The Klan is certainly not represen­tative of any real assessment of America today, or the ideal of America that has always existed. In fact, the intellectually barren nature of what they stand for, combined with their message's lack of popular appeal with the majority of Americans, should really lead us to simply ignore them and feel sorry for them. However, what the Klan does do, in their own sad way, is recall a part of America's past that any red-blooded American should be ashamed of. Thus, although the Klan is having a march, taken objectively, does not warrant any serious attention -it should provoke in us a response. It should provoke in us, as we are reminded of what we used to be and wish we hadn't been, a reaffir­mation of what America really is and what the 
Williams 
U.S.A. really stands for. 
This Saturday, Apr. 4, is the anniversary of the assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr. There is going to be a rally, put on by students, open to the entire South Bend community, to mark that anniversary. More than that, this rally is going to be an assertion of what we, the Notre Dame communi­ty and Northern Indiana, believe in. In so doing we are going to make a larger statement about what this country stands for. This includes principles like freedom, equality, justice and, especially at our Catholic university, faith, hope and love. 
Moreover, these principles apply to ALL Americans, no matter what color they might be. We are going to echo the sentiments expressed long ago -America is one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Isn't this what you believe? Isn't this worth fighting for? Isn't this worth 2:00 to 5:00 on your Saturday? 
In case you are still having doubts about partic­ipating in this rally, you might be interested to know that Notre Dame has a long history of com­bating the Klan. The reason they are going to Elkhart instead of South Bend is because every time they have come here Notre Dame students have run them out of town. Literally. I have read articles from the 1920s where Klan members complain about getting beat and being forcibly removed from South Bend by the Notre Dame "papists." I have heard stories about Notre Dame students who met the Klan members as they got off a train to attend a rally in town. Their greeting was less than cordial; substantially less than cordial. One other time, the Klan came to town (you would think they would have learned) virtually the entire student body skipped class. It didn't take long for Fr. Cavanaugh, then President of Notre Dame, to figure out where his students had gone. He barely prevented an all out brawl between the indignant students and the Klan-and I mean barely. I have even heard sto­ries about priests patting the students on the back as they sent them out to do some serious brawling. 
Alas, the days of settling things with one's fists (and a baseball bat or two) are gone. I don't think the South Bend police, Catholic or not, would hesi­tate to arrest us nowadays. However, we can still carry on this Notre Dame tradition, a tradition as proud as any other. 
We can carry on this tradition by joining together in unity and prayer to make our voices heard for things like brotherhood, freedom, equality, respect and love ... for all walks of life. We can bring about on this campus, not only these three hours but for the rest of our lives, "that day when all of God's children, black men and white men, Jews and Gentiles, Protestants and Catholics, will be able to join hands and sing in the words of that old Negro spiritual, 'Free at last! Free at last! Thank God Almighty, we ·are free at last!"' 
To quote Dr. King again, "Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere." That is true even if that injustice comes from Elkhart, Indiana and even if it comes from a group as pitifully ignorant and archaic as the Ku Klux Klan. So, Notre Dame, let's get together for a little prayer, love, unity and jus­tice. If we all come together it should be enough to at least make the Klan's rally look anti-climatic. And if we are lucky, maybe we can even get them to cancel. After all, even White Christians (as they refer to themselves) deserve to have Holy Saturday off. 
Brandon Williams is a junior history and philoso­phy majQr. 
The vi'ews expressed in this column are those of 
the author and not necessarily those of The 
Observer. 
• lETIER TO THE EDITOR 
Ebb and Flow: The Saga of the Lake Formerly Known as Great 
Over the past few weeks I have methodically combed through the many sections of The Observer, only to find a disturbing lack of coverage on one of the hottest debates to rage in Washington since the White House intern fiasco. Disheartened, but not dis­couraged, I have decided not to let this matter go unrecognized. The topic of this fiery battle lies in the federal government conferring the honor of Great Lake status upon Vermont's Lake Champlain. Along with the designation of Great Lake status comes access to $56 million dollars annually in federal Sea Grant money, part of a research program introduced in 1966 to support college and university-based research on the oceans and Great Lakes. During a routine reauthorization bill for the federal grant money earlier this month, the crafty Democratic Vermont Senator Patrick J. Leahy, in a stroke ·of pure genius, slipped Vermont's northern body of water into the list of "Great Lakes." On March 6, as President Clinton signed the new bill into law, humble Vermonters across the globe celebrated their new­found place in the national spotlight. 
The newest "Great Lake" inevitably sparked con­troversy among stubborn midwestern states unwilling to share the billing of "Great Lake" with their New England cousin. U.S. Rep. Fred Upton, R-St. Joseph MI, went so far as to call Lake Champlain "a pencil line on a map." What Rep. Upton overlooked in his grossly ignorant utterance are the undeniable facts that place Lake Champlain among the Great Lakes. What the lake lacks in size (it measures a full 490­square-miles), it makes up for in ecological similari­ties to the Great Lakes. Champlain shares problems of phosphorous runoff, invasive species, and mercury pollution with the five Great Lakes. Not to mention the fact that all five of the Greats and Champlain empty into the St. Lawrence Sea Way, as well as the fact that all six lakes were formed during the same geological time period. Lake Champlain even boasts its own sea monster (aptly named "Champ"). 
Concerns over the designation soon snowballed into fears that encyclopedias and maps across the nation would have to be rewritten, and history retaught. In a mature and laudable maneuver, Senator Leahy initi­ated a compromise to appease short-sighted tradi­tionalists within Washington. Unfortunately this "compromise," which came into law on March 24, entailed Vermont's losing its "Great Lake" status, while retaining its right to compete for the federal funding. So now, as the sun sets over the Green Mountain State, proud Vermonters remember their 18 days of greatness fondly, but trust that the state which brought you Ethan Allen, Calvin Collage, Ben & Jerry's, and Phish will continue to embody the spirit of innovation and excitement that once upon a time spurred it to become the fourteenth state to join the Union. 
Jeremiah "Green Mountain Boy" Long Junior, Zahm Hall March 27, 1998 


~......~........................~~--~~---r..~~~--------~..~................~----~----------~--~--~--~--~......~~ 
o~ 


Tahinis and McGees by Dave Clark 
F
ew local bands get the chance covers, but the key is to maintain a while instrumentation is their forte, he ented. Ali Baba's is a simplo yet power­to play anywhere other than rotation," Cummins said. The members and Bayliss continue to work on finding ful trio made up of Jake Cinninger on local bars. campus events, or of the band pride themselves on never interesting harmonic lyrics to add. guitar and vocals, Karl Engleman on ofT-campus basemnnts, yet on With Bayliss responsible for an esti­bass and vocals, and Steve Krojniewski Saturday two local bands. Umphrey's 
mated two thirds of the vocals, he on percussion. Much like Umphrey's MeGee and Ali Baba's Tahini, showed brought added dimension to songs with McGee, this band emphasizes a very that they have what if takes to play on vocals that, though sometimes hard to experimental, flowing sound. Cinninger a larger S(:ale. Umphrey's McGee distinguish for technical reasons, favor seemingly took over the stage with his opened with a stellar performance at a delicate rustic tenor. skill at the guitar which was powerful the State Theater downtown before Ali Eventually, although fans were hav­at times and fluttered like a butterfly at Baba's Tahini showcased its abilities. ing a blast, Umphrey's McGee let up in others. Some of' the things he did that The fact that such young bands can night exemplify the kind of' skill that is book such a large venue is a testament not seen in many guitarists, especially to their recognized talents. Umphrey's in this area. McGee, a campus band formed around Strong performances from Engleman December of 1997. features Brendan and Krojniewski complemented Bayliss on lead guitar and vocals along Cinninger throughout, and guest with fellow ex-member of Tashi Station appearances by Hieh Cohen on Sax and Hyan Stasik on bass. The two collabo­Brett Padgett on guitar added on "Well rated with Stomper Bob's keyboardist Guitarist/lead singer Bredan Bayliss You Needn't," "Kabump" and "Mercy, Joel Cummins and percussionist Mike Mercy, Mercy" before the concert con­Mirro and the band has progressed playing the same concert. After cluded with "Syncopated Strangers" since its inception. While Umprey's Saturday's performance, it's obvious and "Equal Hights." McGee's sound takes influences from that such uniformity is impossibAfter All in all, both bands showed great James Brown, Frank Zappa, and vari­some early jitters, the band broke into respect for each other and each others' ous jazz artists, they admit that they flowing originals like, "All in Time," style; always aiming to pleaS(1 th11 arc fans of the Grateful Dead and "Phil's Farm," "Bob," "G-song," and the crowd. The energy, spirit and musi­Phish. two bands who arc evident in amusing "Gut Strut." Listeners found cianship made the night a success. their sound. llowever. developing a morsels of funk intertwined, like an Look out for Umphrey's McGee on completely unique style is a major goal interlude into Stevie Wonder's order to turn things over to Ali Baba's Saturday night at a free concert at the for these musicians. Aside from experi­"Superstition" amidst feet-moving Tahini. A local group conceived in Marion Street Oyster Bar and look out mental originals, the band boasts about jams. Instrumental jams dominated the September of 1997. Ali Baba's also for any other opportunity to see forty cover songs. air, and conccrtgoers may have noticed names Frank Zappa as a leading influ­Umphrey's McGee and Ali Baba's 
"It's important to have some good less vocals. Cummins explained that ence while their sound is very jazz ori-Tahini again. 


T
lw Skaleoholiks have probably one of the most original and fun live shows in the last five years at this University. The stagn energy of the band is at times amazing. But in the creation of their debut album. the band faced tlw daunting task of translating that live stage presence into studio recording sessions. Whilfl they are not able to caphtr(1 the crazy outfits and onstage antics of a show, everything else is there. 
Tlw rhythm seetion of bassist .Joe Cruz, drum­llH1r Noah **** and guitarist Mikn Bechtel are possibly th(~ tightest group that has existed on this campus. Tlwir driving ska boats get the crowd up and jumping every tirno that they take tlw stage. This solid rhythmic style runs through this CD making it perfect for dancing at parties. The jumpy sound keeps thn energy moving right through this collection of their songs. There is even a pt~riod of time at the end of the CD when lead singer Tim Bowers and Cruz make some absurd "thank-you" comments to the people lis­tening to the CD. 
But the real thing that makes this 'disk is the sound quality. The equalization makes it so that you can hear every word that Bowers sings, hear every note that the horn section belts out and, most importantly, no one clement of the band really dominates to the detriment of the others. It is diflicult to pick out one or two songs that are the best from this CD, the entire thing is a very solid effort. One can definitely see the early 1980s influences on the band's songwriting. Just about every song makes reference to a pop-cul­ture icon of that time period including: Commodore 64s, Lionel Ritchie, Chuck Woolery game shows and "Ghostbusters" the movie. That is not to mention the cool LEGO characters and visual element of the packaging. 
Ovf\rall this CD is probably one of the best put out Ly ·a campus band in the live years that this writer has been here. If ycv. ",•·r interested, they are holding a release party today out on the quad. Go by, pick up the CD and enjoy it your­self'. 
by Matthew Loughran 
Skalcoholiks: 11/ook at all this junldood..." Gene Michael Productions 
**** 1/2 (out of five) 


**** (out of five) 
T
he explosion of roots rockers in the recent years has forced many critics to group together bands such as Blues Traveler, the Dave Matthews Band, and Phish. This grouping seems to be unfair consid­ering that none of these bands share the same sound. Fair or unfair, the critics will most likely be adding a new band to the roots rockers group -Agents of Good Hoots. 
This quartet hails from Richmond, Virginia, the same area as the Dave Matthews Band, but you wouldn't know that by listening to them. Many of the songs on One By One have a hard rock or funky feel. The opening track, "Come On," is filled with howling electric guitars, and the classic rock-feel of "Miss America" makes the song sound more like an Aerosmith cover. 
One of the strongest songs on the album, "The Ballad of Hobby and the Piano," pays homage to funk with its unison guitar and saxophone lines. The only problem with the harder songs on the album is that sometimes the group tries to rock too hard. "Two Bucks In Cash" is an example of one of those songs that gets taken over by the distortion and effects of the loud guitar. 
The real strengths of the band shine through 


Thursday, April 2, 1998 
A 
n aspiring basketball player meets Michael Jordan. The 
brightest student at M.I.T. gets 
the chance to talk to Albert Einstein. A young theologian meditates with Martin Luther. These scenarios parallel the incredible opportunity to witness a musieal offering given by the Skatalites, the original pioneers of ska. This ·past Friday night at Cabaret Metro in Chicago, I had the fortuity to do just that. 
The show commenced with two sets by local bands The Adjusters and Skapone. Unfortunately, this reviewer and his roommate missed The soul-ska stylings of The Adjusters due to a holdup in Wrigleyville's finest social establishment; listening to a lackluster set by Chicago staples Skapone, perhaps tardiness wasn't such a terrible choice. Skapone has long been hailed as Chicago's finest ska act. Why this is befuddles me. Their tunes are infantile, with the same major third harmonies and feeble attempts at toasting (a Jamaican style of rap). Skapone's lyrics are neither inventive nor humorous, and it is hard to believe that a musically diverse city such as Chicago cannot pro­duce a better ska act. 
At last, the real professionals came on stage. Let's Go Bowling is a eight-piece ensemble from Fresno, CA, that has sig­nificantly contributed in shaping 90s ska. Their fifty minute set was a spec­tacular voyage through their two origi­nal Moon Hecords releases, Music to Bowl By and Mr. Twist. Their live per­formance was a whirlwind of old school horn instrumentals and third wave stylings, beginning with a scorching ren­dition of Grover's "Harem" that woke the capacity crowd from its slumber. Guitarist Paul Miskulin and keyboardist Darren Fletcher define how a drop beat should sound, with Mishkulin's rock solid upstrokes and Fletcher's perfectly-placed organ accents and holds. Mark Michel lays down a nifty groove on bass, and Adam Lee holds the band together quite ade­quately on drums. "Cumbia Del Sol," "Esta Noche," "Pinstripe Suit", and a hilarious recreation of "Hare Tonic" (straight from the Bugs Bunny cartoon bearing the same name) highlighted 

LGB's set of party-ready ska. Live releases Freeway Lanes and LGB Does the Spiral Live capture their sound bet­ter than do their studio cuts, but there is no substitute to the energetic s!!t LGB plays in person. 
As LGB broke down, this reviewer stealthily relocated to the back stage area, where ska founders the Skatalites were posing for a publicity shoot. It is such an amazing feeling to be in the company of one's heroes. In the excite" ment, I think I yelled out "uh, blah well, uh... I LOVE YOU GUYS! YEAHARRGH! .." Pretty smooth, eh? I calmed myself down and also proposed to Doreen Schaeffer, their female vocalist. 
All present day ska can be traced back to the Skatalites. Their past two releases have garnered Grammy nominations, and their current release Ball of Fire is surely headed for a third. The ska beat was invented by percussionist Lloyd Knibb and bassist Lloyd Brevett. Both were in·trademark form, Brevett sport­ing his signature floppy hat and dread­locks, and Knibb pounding away with a smile on his face. Tenor saxophonist Roland Alphonso and alto saxQphonist Lester Sterling, both original members of the band, guided it through a set of Skatalites standards, including "Eastern Standard Time," "Freedom Sounds," "Latin Goes Ska," and "Phoenix City." Ms. Schaeffer joined the band for two lovesick numbers, "You're Wondering Now" and Can't You See." Her defiant voice pleaded for understanding, and the instrumentalists displayed that they can play the role of showband as well as ska-jazz ensemble. Despite many squawks and shaky notes (that seem to enhance the sound more than anything else), The Skatalites demonstrated to the enthusiastic crowd just why they remain the definitive ska act. 


I
t has been more that fifteen years since Jarvis Cocker formed the first incarnation of Pulp, yet it has only been in the past few years that the band has begun to receive the international attention it has long deserved. After 1995's Different Class topped charts around the world many expected the follow-up to follow the same path of progressive pop, but This Is Hardcore pushes the pop envelope far beyond Different Class. 
Many of the albums tracks feature Cocker's sultry voice atop beautiful droning guitar, yet they manage to create a sound completely differ­ent from more complacent pop groups. On "Help The Aged" we are encouraged. to revel in our youth and respect our elders as they will soon be gone and we will soon be them. Seldom is such a topic brought up in the Dorian Grey world of pop music, and never before has it been dealt with so well. The album's finest cut is the title track "This Is Hardcore." Based around a Peter Thomas Sound Orchestra sample, it forms a wonderfully energetic yet mellow ode to love in an X-rated movie. Nearing it's completion, the album treats us to Cocker's current views on our generation and the direction in which it is head­ed in "The Day After the Revolution." 
He winds it down by saying "the rave is over, Sheffield is over, men are over, women are over, irony is over". These are words to end a career upon, but Pulp knows it's place and these words seem more a poke at themselvesthan an ultima­tum. Unavailable on the British version of the album is "Like A Friend" (originally featured on the soundtrack for Great Expectations) which brings the album to a pleasant close. 
Jarvis Cocker has one of the most distinct voic­es in modern pop music and it's radiant beauty is particularly well used in This Is Hardcore. This album has the potential to throw the group into the American mainstream which might posi­tively influence the way in which our own music industry thinks about pop. The last line in This is Hardcore serves as the only question I might ask the band: "What a hell of a show but what I want to know -What exactly do you do for an encore?." 
by Stuart Smith 


BROOKS & DUNN  TONIGHT  JOYCE CENTER  
Violent Femmes  AprilS  Elco Theater (Elkhart, IN)  
Eric Clapton  April9-10  United Center (Chicago)  
BB King  April10-11  Star Plaza (Merrillville, IN)  
Big Bad Voodoo Daddy  April10  House of Blues (Chicago)  
RadioheadI Spiritualized  April10  Rosemont Theater (Rosemont, IL)  
Save Ferris/Hagfish/Home Grown  April10  Metro (Chicago)  
Sarah McLachlan/Lisa Loeb  April12  Madison Civic Center (Madison, WI)  
ANI DIFRANCO  April15  STEPAN CENTER  
Squirrel Nut Zippers  April17  Madison Theater (Chicago)  

campus band gigs ...~ 
Dunn Brothers/The Skalcoholiks  Today  Fieldhouse Mall (4 pm)  
Gravity Hill  Tonight  Irish Connections (10:30 pm)  
Stomper Bob/Letter 8  April3  Irish Connections (10:30 pm)  
Who's Yo' Daddy  April4  Dalloway's Coffeehouse (9 pm)  

page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, April 2, 1998 
• NHl 
Dominator blanks Kings to record 13th shutout 
·....­
Associated Press 
BUFFALO, N.Y. 
Dominik Hasek made 37 saves and earned his league-leading 13th shutout to lift the BuiTalo Sabres to a 4-0 victo­ry over the Los Angeles Kings on Wednesday night. 
Donald Audette scored the first and last goals for Buffalo, which built a 2-0 lead in the first two periods before win­ning for the fourth time in five games. Curtis Brown and Alexei Zhitnik had the other goals. 
Once again, Hasek made it look easy in lowering his goals-against average to 
2.11. lie virtually took away Los Angeles' power play by himself and was steady throughout the third period. The shutout was his third in four games and sixth in his last 15. 
Hasek drew within two shutouts of former Chicago goaltender Tony Esposito ·for the most in one season since the league expanded in 1969-70. Bernie Parent had 12 for Philadelphia in 1973-74 and again the following year. 
Buffalo was without captain Michael Peca, who was serving the last of a three-game suspension handed down by the NIIL for an open-ice hit on Vancouver's Mattias Ohlund last week. 
Los Angeles, which has lost three of four, went 0-for-10 on the power play. Buffalo was 2-for-9 in the same situa­tion. Referee Richard Trottier called 144 minutes in penalties in the game, which included three fights and five misconducts. 
Brown gave Hasek a two-goal lead after Los Angeles handed Buffalo three consecutive power-play opportunities in the second period. 
The Sabres were unable to score after holding a two-man advantage after the penalties overlapped, but Brown broke through with 4:14 left in the period and Buffalo helped Hasek finish it off in the third. 
Jason Woolley set up Brown's goal when he received a pass from Geoff Sanderson and took a hard slap shot from just inside the blue line. Brown cleaned up the rebound and jammed the puck into the short side. 
The Sabres were getting severely out­played until Audette gave them a 1-0 lead with 7:50 remaining in the first period when he scored off a rebound on the power play. 
Brian Holzinger had the puck behind the Kings' net and hit Miroslav Satan with a quick pass in front. Fiset stopped Satan's shot, but Audette grabbed control on the other side and stuffed in his 21st. Audette's other goal came off a rebound with 7:55 remain­ing. 
Sharks 3, Penguins 2 
Jeff Friesen scored on a shorthanded breakaway with 7:03 left in the third period to give the San Jose Sharks a 3­2 win over Pittsburgh, ending the Penguins' 10-game home unbeaten streak Wednesday night. 
Friesen scored his fifth shorthanded goal to tie for the league lead as the Sharks ended a four-game trip 3-1 and closed within a point of Edmonton and Phoenix for the last playoff spot in the Western Conference. 
The Penguins had been on a season-best 6-0-4 streak at home but have been strug­gling lately, going 0-2­2 in their last four games overall. 
Pittsburgh defense­man Kevin Hatcher couldn't handle Ron 
X-Pittsburgh 
Boston 
Montreal 

Francis' cross-ice pass 
at the right point and 
Buffalo

Friesen beat him to the 
Ottawa 

puck when it caromed 
Carolina 

off the boards. Friesen took off and put a backhander behind 
X-New Jersey

Tom Barrasso for his 
X-Philadephia 
Washington 
NY Rangers
28th goal. 

The Penguins hadn't 
NY Islanders

lost a home game since 
Florida 

Feb. 2, when they were 
Tampa Bay 

beaten 4-2 by the New York Islanders. Robert Dome scored 
X-Dallas 

the tying goal at 10:13 
X-Detroit 
X-St. louis 
Chicago 

of the third on 
Pittsburgh's first shot 
Phoenix

of the period. Dome 
Toronto 

skated down the right side, took Jaromir Jagr's pass and put a 
X-Colorado

30-footer through Mike 
los Angeles

Vernon's pads for his 
Edmonton 
San Jose
fourth. 

John MacLean scored 33 seconds into the second period and Patrick Marleau broke the 1-1 tie with the help of a Pittsburgh giveaway at 11:54. 
MacLean one-timed Bernie Nicholls' pass from behind the net after Marcus 
73 36 20 17 89 72 33 26 13 79 73 34 29 10 78 72 31 26 15 77 72 28 31 13 69 72 29 35 8 66 
73 45 19 9 99 73 38 24 11 87 73 34 28 11 79 74 22 34 18 62 72 24 38 10 58 72 21 39 12 54 72 17 46 9 43 
72 43 18 11 97 74 39 20 15 93 73 39 26 8 86 74 29 33 12 70 72 28 32 12 68 73 26 38 9 61 
74 37 21 16 90 72 34 27 11 79 74 29 35 10 68 73 29 37 7 65 
The Observer/Dave Piening 
Ragnarsson beat Jaromir Jagr to the 
puck at the point. Pittsburgh defenseman Darius Kasparaitis gave up the puck behind the net to lead to Marleau's goal. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
Classifieds 
sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including 
all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
-
,­
.. 
~---N_O_T_I_C_E_S__~I 
THE COPY SHOP -LaFortune Student Center WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE, 
AND WEEKENDS!II Mon · Thur 7:30am -Midnight Fri 7:30am -7:00pm Sat Noon · 6:00pm Sun Noon · Midnight 
CALL 631-COPY 
LOST&FOUND 

Wallet found at Gate 2 of Joyce Center. Call 1-5858 to claim it. 
WANTED 

Students! Looking for flexible hours? lnt'l Health & Nutrient Co. offering competitive wages to motivated individuals. 243-8009 
TAIWAN lnt'l Health Co. expanding into Taiwan in May. Looking for 5 people interested in this int'l expansion. 271-0912 
Coming Back for Summer School? We're looking for 2 Roommates Call Kristin x2512 
Babysitter needed for delightful 2-year-old boy this summer: M-F days, 20 or more hours per week. flexible hours. Transportation provided if needed. Experience/ references preferred. $6/hr. Call Jan 243-1 058. 
Internet interships in Washington I Journalism, web design, PR. public policy, sales! Call Ben: 202-408-0008 or interns@ interactivehq.org 
Summer job on campus! Retreats International looking for part time responsible person from July 5-31 . Licensed driver. Calll-5320 
Family of 1 1/2 year old and soon to be newborn, looking for part-time, flexible babysitter. Person must be available one day a week (part day) and some weekend nights. Great extra money! Please call Traci or Ben at 291-3524. 
Marketing/Promotions-Aggressive, dependable, enthusiastic students and/or non-students needed for Silverhawks pro­motional work at each home game. Excellent PIT opportunity for the right indi­viduals. $10-$15 per hour. Call Mr. Becker at 1·800-334·4897. 
~~---F_O_R__RE__N_T__~ 
Now Renting Campus View 1 & 2 Bedrooms 2 Blocks frorn campus 272-1441 
Second round of leasing at College Park Condominiums, few units still available. Please contact office for appointment 272­0691. 
4 or 5 Bdrm furnished house, w/d, sand volleyball. 119 N. St. Peter, 233­9947 
NICE 3 bdr home 2 blks from campus 273­1566 
College Park Apt. Available for Summer. 243-5323. 
ALL SIZE HOMES CLOSE TO CAMPUS 232-2595 
NICE 3-4 BEDROOM HOMES NORTH OF ND GOOD AREA 2773097 
8 BEDROOM HOME 2773097 
Nice 3-4 bdrm, bath & 1/2 house. Unfurnished. 2-car garage, gas heat, WID. 10-mo lease. 
$1,050/mo. Across from park, safe area. 289-5057. 
2 College Park Apts avail lor sumrner. 243­5668 
FURNISHED 6 BDRM NEAR CAMPUS.WASHER/DRYER. FALUSUM­MER.272-6551 
1 ,2,3&4 BDRM HOMES NEAR CAMPUS.GILLIS PROPERTIES 272-6551 
1014 N. St. Louis St. 4 bdrms, 2 baths, all appliances, furnished. Walking distance to campus. 234-1440. 
DOMUS PROPERTIES 
NOW LEASING 2 HOMES Capacity from 6 -9 students Heat inc. in rent. Both homes are in student populated areas. Completely remodeled and ready for the 98/99 schoolyear. Call Kramer at 674-2571 or 289-5999. 
SUMMER RENTALS AVAILABLE Lease from June to Aug. 1. All houses are surrounded by other student rentals. Call Kramer at 674-2571 or 289­5999. 
summer school College Park apartment: 
call 243-4724 
FOR SALE 
SPACIOUS 1 BR CONDO 
walk to campus 
Call Dianne Killelea 
272-5444 
1984 Volkswagon Cabaret convert. 5-speed, 50,000 mi. Stored winters. $2,995. 674-5104 Bob Hull 
For Sale: Convenient condo living just a few blocks from Notre Dame. Recently remod­eled including bathroom fixtures. 3 bed­rooms, 2 full baths & access to clubhouse with pool & work out room. Call Trace Cole at 243-9565 for more information. 
89 PROBE GT, 112K, $3000 OBO. 4-4303 
TICKETS 
CUBS TICKETS!!!! 
SIX Cubs tickets for the 18th of April. Lower deck on the third base line .... GREAT SEATS FOR CHEAP. These are must sells, so any offer for these tickets are appreciated. 
Contact Bryan at X4948 
PERSONAL 
Looking for ride to NJ-ish for Easter, help 
gas/drive X3485 
...HELP..... 
I need a ride to the St. Louis area for 
Easter. Will help w/ $ 
Call Jen 4-2783 
CLASS OF '9 8 
L A 
s SENIOR 
s WEEK 
0 
F IS 
9 COMING 8 
•••ATTENTION LESBIAN, GAY, BISEXU­AL, AND QUESTIONING STUDENTS... Original student-run group will hold support group meeting TONIGHT 8pm. Call info line for details 236-9661. 
••ATIENTION ALL FEMALES .. Absolut Kurlies IV is looking for ladies to contribute to our cause. Please call 4-1190 or mail to 259 Zahm. 

look at all this junk food . 
Coming April 1 and 2 
SKALCOHOLIKS 
CD Release parties: 
April1 -Alumni-Senior Club (21 and over) 
April 2 -Fieldhouse Mall 
Skalcoholiks' debut CD "look at all this junk 
food ..." will be available for $12 
I'm looking for a ride to NJ for Easter (to 
surprise my family). Please help! Willing to 
pay $ $ $ and share driving. Call Allison x 
1421. 
AMZ"2, Mike, and Cory, 
Happy April Fools Day! 
love, Ann and Julie 
SUPPORT LOCAL MUSIC 
The IRISH CONNECTION proudly announces Support Local Music Weekend. The festivities start tonight, thursday, with the addictive sounds of GRAVITY HILL. Jump blues masters STOMPER BOB and ND phenomenon LEITER 8 take the stage friday, and the SKALCOHOLIKS celebrate the release of their debut CD saturday night. Come to the all new IRISH CONNEC­TION and show your support for these tal­ented ensembles. All shows start at 10:30, $1 off cover before 11:30 with this ad. 
SUPPORT LOCAL MUSIC 
GRAVITY HILL 
Catch the music you love to hear tonight at 
IRISH CONNECTION. 10:30 pm show. 
GRAVITY HILL 
ADOPTION: Hugs, daisies and babbling brooks in summer. Snuggles, skisuits and a toasty fireplace in winter. Love and joy for your baby all year long. Happy, caring pro­fessional couple would love to provide a newborn with love, joy and security. Call Ed and Ellen at 1-800-484-7011 Pin #4523 
WHO'S YO' DADDY? the new band with the new sound: you saw them at NAZZ, see them in their own show this FRIDAY at DALLOWAY'S at 9pm! www.nd.edu-sziegler/daddy.htrnl 
I am your Daddy 
And your Daddy Mac 
But I am not your Mac Daddy 
hey girls, i promised i'd get your name in here. so this is going out to the k-mac.and "the sexiest girl on Ll" 
SABOR LATINO 
Thursday April 2 9pm-lam Club Landing 
SABOR LATINO 
my boyfriend is not supposed to be 
employed here 
isn't there a policy about inter-Observer dat­ing? 
Julie, 11:30 p.m. So far, no scares, embarassments or surprises. Only a half-hour and April Fool's is ineffec­tive! 
Maria Chachia -I think we need to go to Lula's so strangers can plan our lives some more. 
Autumn -Miami, OH. Here we come! Our 
first road trip! 
was up? was up? was up? was up? was 
up? 
Hey roomies! Remember rne? I'm the one 
who used to be in the room for rnore than 
7.5 minutes a day. Ringing a bell yet? 
Room 473 rules next year! oh, yeah! party 
room! 
C.J., if you still think that 1 didn't specifically put that classified in the other day, then you are a freakin' idiot! Is that clear? 
Hey ladiesl Are you looking for the ultimate Notre Darne bachelor? Call Brendan O'Connor at 1-900-IMA-STUD. Please call ASAP . 
C.J., I'm cooler than you. So, there!­
If superstition does not intercede, then 
we're going to Miami, and you're not! 
Hey C.J. Long time, no classified. Anyway, can I borrow your Stevie Wonder CD? I want to make mix with your Hanson CD! Gnarly, dude. 
No, Julie, I will not buy you that Bay Watch poster you've been begging fori I know David Hasselhoff is a babe, but come on I 
And Autumn, I know Ladies Love Cool James, but we're not going to the LL Cool 
J. concert. And that's that! 
Gina loves Usher more than life. 
Nuclear hair. 

~ ----·------~-~---~--~--~------~------~--------·-~~~-----------~-------------~~-----·--------------~----~~~ 
page 15

Thursday, April 2, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 
Ripken's grand slam gives Orioles win over Royals 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE 

Cal Ripken's eighth career grand slam capped a five-run first inning that lifted Baltimore past the Kansas City Royals 10­1 Wednesday night, the Orioles' first win under manager Ray Miller. 
Lenny Webster hit two solo homers and Jeffrey Hammonds had one for the Orioles, whose five hits in the first matched their total Tuesday in a 4-1 sea­son-opening loss to the Royals. 
Scott Erickson pitched a four­hitter for his 1OOth career vic­tory. The right-hander struck out five and walked one to improve his major-league record to 100-83. It was his 31st career complete game. 
The only run against Erickson came on a solo homer by Dean Palmer in the second. The Royals were looking to open the season 2-0 for the first time since 1979. 
Miller, who took over for 
Davey Johnson in November, 
last won a game as a major-

Thursday, April 2 
The music you love to hear 
league manager in 1986 with the Minnesota Twins. He then served as a pitching coach for 11 years before being hired to manage the Orioles. 
Baltimore wasted little time against Royals left-bander Glendon Rusch. Singles by Roberto Alomar, Eric Davis and Rafael Palmeiro produced a run before Joe Carter beat out a dribbler to load the bases for Ripken, who drove a 1-1 pitch into the left-field seats. 
The homer pushed Ripken ahead of Boog Powell into sole possession of second place on the team's career list of grand slams. He trails Eddie Murray by eight. 
Hammonds led off the fourth 
by hitting an 0-2 pitch over the 
wall in center, and Webster fol­
lowed with a shot to left for a 7­
1 lead. Rusch was charged with 
seven runs and nine hits in 
four-plus innings. 
A pair of Kansas City errors 
enabled the Orioles to score a 
pair of unearned runs in the 
sixth. 

Webster, who had three hits, 
Support 
Local 
M:usic 
-w-eekend 
,., Gravity Hill 
Friday, April 3 

Saturday, April 4 
ND Ska kings 
CD RELEASE PARTY
~Skalcoholiks 
All shows start 10:30 
$1 off all covers before 11 :30 with this ad 

homered in the eighth off Brian Bevil, his first two-homer game in the majors. 
CUBS 10, MARLINS 3 

Mark Clark struck out 11 in seven innings and Kevin Orie drove in four runs, both career­highs, Wednesday night to help the Chicago Cubs earn their first victory, 10-3 over the Florida Marlins. 
Orie drove in runs with a sin­gle in the first, a double in the third, a solo homer off the left­field foul pole in the fifth and a sacrifice fly in the ninth. 
Teammate Sammy Sosa added an RBI double in the first and a run-scoring single in the third. Scott Servais doubled home two runs in the ninth against rookie Oscar Henriquez, and Mickey Morandini added a two-run sin­gle. 
After a sellout crowd of 

41,126 on opening day, atten­
dance dipped to 16,877. 
Felix Heredia took the loss, 

allowing five runs in five 
innings. Heredia, 21, made his 
first major league start after 77 
relief appearances. 
Clark allowed four hits and 

one run in seven innings. He 
improved to 5-1 lifetime. against 
Florida with an ERA of 2.59. 
The right-hander's 11 strike­

outs were the most by a Cubs 
pitcher since Kevin Foster had 
13 on Sept. 27, 1995, against 

St. Louis. Clark's previous 
career high was 10 strikeouts 
on Aug. 28 last year against 
Florida. 
Florida's Cliff Floyd greeted 


KAT Photo 

Ripken's eighth career grand slam places him in sole possession of second place behind Eddie Murray on the team's all-time list. 
reliever Terry Adams with a RBI single. homer in the eighth. The Rod Beck made his debut for Marlins scored in the fourth on the Cubs, allowing· an RBI sin­rookie Mark Kotsay's two-out gle to Gregg Zaun in the ninth. 
rArtLEY rEIS 
An lftiSH fESTIVAl 
'· 

T1iU~~®'(1l). 11P~I6 2 
8:00 -10:00pm 
6afortunfl d3allroom 
Przrformrzr~: Kotrrz CVamrz Bagpiprz Band lri~h CVanerz Club lri~h Przrformrzr John Krznnrzdy f rznian~. an Iri~ h ~tudrznt band 
~[ donations wi[[ go toward a scftofarsftip fund in honor of 9)att~ ~iat, a:-arfe~ crass of 1997. wfto was aboard C)CWA._(Figftt 800 



--~--------------~------~--------------~----------~~--------------------------~--~--~~--------~---~--­
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 
Tampa Bay sees first ray of light with 11-8 victory 
page 16 The Observer· SPORTS 
.NBA 
Walker leads Celtics to victory 
Associated Press 
OHLANDO, Fla. 

Antoine Walker had 18 points and 15 rebounds, and Boston forced eight Orlando turnovers in the fourth quarter to beat the Magie 98-87 Wednesday night. 
Dana Barros scored 17 points for the Cclties, who won for only the third time in their last 13 games. Walter McCarty scored I I of his 13 points for Boston in the fourth quarter. 
Niek Anderson, who missed Orlando's three previous games, scored 18 points for the Magie. Derek Strong added 17 points and lloraee Grant 16 for Orlando. which lost its second straight. 
The Celtics dominated the boards in the first half and took a 45-40 lead despite committing 12 turnovers. 
Boston increased its lead to 57-4 7 on Walker's :~-pointer, but wnseeutive dunks by Bo Outlaw and Strong sparked an 11-2 run that cut the Ccltics' lead to 59­
58. That was as elose as the Magie got in the second half. 
Orlando started the fourth period with four straight turnovers and Boston converted each of them to take a 72-60 lead. Walter McCarty and Greg Minor combined to score 12 straight points for Boston. 
The Magic didn't get their first field goal of the final period until Outlaw's putback with 6:25 left. They trailed 80-67 at that point and never got the deficit under 10 points. 
CAV ALlERS 92, PISTONS 90 
Shawn Kemp had 26 points and 14 rebounds, and Brevin Knight added 14 points and 15 assists to lead the Cleveland Cavaliers to a 92-90 victory over the slumping Detroit Pistons on Wednesday night. 
The victory kept the Cavs' 1 1/2 games behind the Atlanta llawks in the battle for the fifth playoff spot in the Eastern Conference. 
The Pistons, who must pass three teams in the standings to make the playoffs, lost their fourth straight. 
Detroit's Jerry Stackhouse was ejected in the closing seconds after getting into a pushing match with Knight. The con­frontation started after Knight grabbed a rebound and was fouled hard by Stackhouse. 
Kemp carne otT the bench dur­ing the incident, which could result in a suspension. 
Lindsey Hunter scored 17 points for the Pistons, while 
Grant Hill had 16 points and 10 assists. Joe Dumars added 15 points for Detroit. 
A dunk by Brian Williams and a 3-pointer by Durnars cut Cleveland's lead to 88-87 with 23 seconds left. 
After Cedric Henderson made two free throws for the Cavs, Knight stripped Durnars before he could get otT a tying 3-point attempt. Cleveland's Bobby Sura then missed two free throws, giving the Pistons another chance.. 
But Dumars missed, and when Knight grabbed the rebound, he was fouled hard by Stackhouse, setting otT their confrontation. 
Vitaly Potapenko scored seven points in the final three minutes of the third period. helping the Cavs take a 66-65 lead. 
Cleveland still led by one point early in the fourth until Detroit went on an 8-0 run capped by Dumars' 3-pointer. That gave the Pistons a 75-68 lead with 
8:15 to go. 
Detroit then went scoreless for several minutes, however. and Knight's driving layup tied the game at 75 with 4:56 left. 
Cleveland took a 83-82 lead on a dunk by Zydrunas Ilgauskas with 2:02 left. 
After Hill missed a shot in the lane, Wesley Person hit a 3­
Thursday, April 2, 1998 


pointer to put the Cavs up by throws, Kemp hit a pair from four. the line to give Cleveland a six­After Williams missed two free point lead with 1:05 remaining. 
Associated Press 
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. 

The expansion Tampa Bay Devil Hays earned their first victory in team history Wednesday night, getting four RBis from Fred McGriff in an 11-8 victory over the Detroit Tigers. 
McGriff doubled horne a run in the first inning, added an RBI single in a four-run fourth and capped the night with a two-run single in the eighth as the Devil Hays rebounded from an open­ing day 11-6 loss to the Tigers. 
Cuban defector Holando Arrojo, making his major leagun debut, worked six innings for the win, allowing four runs on eight hits. The 29­year-old right-hander truck out six, walked one and his throw­ing error allowed a Tigers' run in the first. 
Detroit starter Brian Moehler lastnd 3 2-3 innings and was tagged for six runs and lO hits. The Devils Hays collected 18 hits against six Detroit pitchers. 
Arrojo defected from Cuba in 
251-0674 
IIATUBA 

JAPANESE RESTAURANT 
•Authentic•Healthy•Delicious 

Robert is the BEST Chef in Tow11 I 2930 E. McKmley Ave• South Bend, IN 
1,11111 hi I !Mun HtH1•l llfllll'l'l\ U\tou Hutii'I·IO fo'11 & Sal 
BOOK SEARCH 

• Used, rare and out-of-print 
books · • Initial cost of $2.00 ·' • National!·;-circulated ad 
• 
Success rate of 50% 

• 
Time Required: 2 months 


ERASMUS BOOKS 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South B~nd, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 


July 1996 and spent nine otT reliever Bryce Florie in the months in Costa Rica before bottom of the seventh made it being declared a free agent and 8-6, and the Tigers closed to 8­receiving a $7 million bonus to 7 in the eighth on Bip Roberts' sign with the Devil Rays. RBI groundout. 
lie left the game with a 7-4 The Devil Rays scored three lead. Detroit closed to 7-6 in the runs in the bottom of the seventh inning on HBI singles eighth, two on McGriffs single by Tony Clark and Luis against Doug Brocail and Gonzalez, who both had three another on Dave Martinez's RBI hits in the game. single. 
Hich Butler's solo horne run Roberto Hernandez pitched 
If you need to do some catching up or want to get a jump on fall, summer classes at Holy Cross College may be just the ticket. Choose one or both sessions, each offering a wide variety of quality general education courses. And pay our summer tuition rate of just $170 per credit hour. 
Take advantage of exceptionally small classes, a dedicated and caring faculty, and our convenient location just to the west of the University of Notre Dame campus. Credit earned is transferable. And on-campus student housing is available.* 
You'll enjoy summer activities even more, knowing that you're also getting ahead in your studies. Write or call Holy Cross College today. Applications for Sommer Sessions I and II, as well .as for +1101.) the 1998 Fall Semester, are now being accepted. 
Cno~:-; 
. .. CoLLE<;J·: 

Session I -May 18 to June 25 Office of Admissi..,;,, *Session II-june 29 to August 6 P.O. Box 308 • Notre Dame. IN 46556 
(219) 239-8400. ext. 22 • Fax (219) 233-7427 *On-campus student housing available for Session II only e-mail: hccadmis@gnn.com 
the ninth, allowing a one-out RBI single to Joe Randa before striking out Joe Oliver and get­ting Frank Catalanotto to foul out with two runners on base. 
The Tigers, who led 11-0 Tuesday, took a 3-0 lead this time on an RBI single by Bobby Higginson and run-scoring dou­bles by Clark and Gonzalez, who had three RBis and now has five in two games. 
The Devil Hays carne back, though. with two runs in the first and took their first lead at 6-3 with a four-run fourth. The Devil Rays batted around in the inning as Wade Boggs, McGriff, Miguel Cairo and Kevin Stocker drove in runs. 
Cairo's RBI broke a 3-3 tie, and Boggs followed with his run-scoring single to chase Moehler. 

~-----~----~----~--------·~---------~~-----­
~--------~--------------~ 
Thursday, April 2, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• NFL 
DeBartolo may soon regain leadership of his 49ers 
Associated Press 
SANTA CLARA, Calif 
The tangled 49ers' ownership picture appears to be clearing and it looks familiar -Eddie DeBartolo could soon regain control of the club and possibly install Bill Walsh and Joe Montana in the front office. 
The odd man out may be team president Carmen Policy. 
"There definitely is a move afoot for Eddie to get the team back," one club source said Wednesday, speaking on condi­tion of anonymity. 
The moves could bring order back to a team wracked by organizational disarray for months. Last December, DeBartolo, facing the threat of a gambling fraud indictment, resigned as 49ers chairman and CEO and turned over opera­tional control of the team to his sister and Policy. 
The plans to transfer owner­ship hinge on whether the NFL approves a deal by which DeBartolo would gain full own­ership of the franchise in return for giving up his share in the family-owned Edward DeBartolo Corp., Sports Illustrated reported. It added that the deal could be finalized this week, 
Walsh, who coached the 49ers to three Super Bowl wins and has served as a consultant the past two years, might replace Policy. Montana, who won four Super Bowls as the team's start­ing quarterback, would be brought in as a minority owner and hold unspecified front-office responsibilities. 
Team officials declined to comment. But DeBartolo and his sister, in a statement released thorough the Edward J. DeBartolo Corp., said they were .still in the process of determin­
ing the team's future. 
"No decision, tentative or 
fmal, has been made regarding 
when, how, or even if, a future 
ownership or management 
change could occur," the state­
ment said. 

"Definitive business decisions, 
if any, will be formally 
announced by the two of us, not 
made public through leaks, 
rumors and unnamed sources 
who claim to be close to our family," the statement said. 
NFL spokesman Greg Aiello said the transfer, if it takes place, would go through the normal process for team sales, with a full investigation and a vote by the other 29 teams. 
"The way I understand it is that it is ,more of a paperwork transaction," DeBartolo's broth­er-in-law, Buzz Papalia, told the San Francisco Examiner. "I think he has agreed to give up his share of the DeBartolo cor­poration in exchange for her interest in the team." 
DeBartolo and his sister, Denise DeBartolo York, own equal parts of the Youngstown, Ohio,-based real estate develop­ment company, the nominal owner of the 49ers. 
Following DeBartolo's depar­ture, there were reports of a family feud and DeBartolo was said to owe nearly $50 million to the DeBartolo Corp. York put on hold plans to build a stadi­um-mall to replace aging 3Com Park, citing concerns over huge construction overruns. 
DeBartolo had vowed to build it after city voters last summer narrowly approved a $100 mil­lion bond to help finance its construction but the project remains in limbo. 
Meantime, the uncertainty and confusion over ownership and control opened a rift between DeBartolo and Policy, close friends for the past 30 years. Policy is considered one of the NFL's most dynamic team executives. 
Policy has acknowledged his relations with DeBartolo have been strained. Much of the ten­sion apparently stemmed from their roles in the campaign to win voter approval for the stadi­um-mall project. 

Notre Dame Baseball 
Wed. vs. Western Michigan @5:00PM Thurs. vs. Bowling Green @5:00PM 
MEN IN BLACK 7()~ au~? 7f/Wu~~? 



~. flim ~. e.s.e ~-'8ctt -uJad. e.s.e 
'?~n ffl.M.e ~~ tk ~~ euuu ~-f!UVt ~'P~ ~ 
~ s~ • ~ Z'<U~U, 1~ 46556 (2/t!J) 631-638'5 • ~:1/~.d.e-eUtl-~
I 
ANSWER~ 
"(tfE CALL\(!)! 

s.oftb.. a)l 
Th1trS. Vs. Valparaiso (DH) @ 4:30 Pl\1 
Iv Field 


ens Thurs. vs. Ohio State @3:00PM 
1st 200 students get FREE Pizza!! 

-zw 

page 18 
.J> • COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Tarkanian finally settles NCAA dispute 
Associated Press 
LA..<; VEGAS 

Jerry Tarkanian's long and bittf:\r dispute with the NCAA is all but OVCI'. 
Tarkanian, branded an out­Jaw basketball coach the past two deeades. will receive $2.5 million from the NCAA on Thursday. Sources familiar with the case said he will also receivn a conciliatory state­ment from the organization. 
Settlement of the 7 -year-old suit was reached one month before it was to go on trial in Las Vegas, the city where he coached for almost 20 years. Tarkanian had contended thH NCM targeted his teams and made up evidence to try to run him out' of coad1ing. 
"They can never. ever, make up for all the pain and agony they caused me," Tarkanian said Wednesday, speaking by phone from Fresno, Calif., where he coaches the Fresno State tean1. 
"All I can say is that for 25 years they beat the hell out of me." 
While not admitting liability, the statement from the NCAA will say the organization regrets the dispute, which began 26 years ago when Tarkanian was still coaching at Long Beach State, the sources said, speaking on con­ditions of anonymity. 
The NCAA declined comment on the settlement, saying exec­utive director Cedric Dempsey would talk about it Thursday. 
Tarkanian's attorney, Torry Giles, said he was preparing to go to trial May 18 when he was approached about a set­tlement a few weeks ago by the NCAA. 
Giles said testimony from former players, officials and lawyers would have shown that. except for one minor infraction, the NCAA had no evidence to back up probations given to basketball programs at Long Beach and UNLV. 
''We felt very confident about our ease for seven years," Giles said. "I told .Jerry and Lois that the day we were in the courtroom picking a jury was the day we wen~ begin-ning to win the case." 

It was the second suit Tarkanian had t1led against the NCAA. The flrst one ended when a divided Supreme Court ruled in 1988 that Tarkanian could not sue because the ath­letic body acted as a private organization and not with gov­ernment authority. 
''I'm just glad it's over with," Tarkanian said. "You can't fight an organization that big and that strong and hope to survive. But I knew I would nover give up." 
Sources said the NCAA statew ment, in addition to expressing regret over the long battle. will also say the agency now has more understanding of Tarkanian's position and that the case has changed the enforcement process for. the better. 
It will also say the NCAA wants to go forward with a clean slate, thinks Tarkanian is an excellent basketball coach and wants the wounds to heal. 
The NCAA fought the Tarkanian suit from its incep­
The Observer/John Daily 

tion, trying unsuccessfully to 
Freshman left-handed pitcher Jennifer Sharron has given opposing batters problems all season.
get it moved out of Las Vegas, where NCAA attorneys said 
jurors would be biased on 
Tarkanian's behalf. · Tarkanlan's fight with the NCAA flrst reached the courts after the UNLV program was put on two years' probation in 1977 for what the NCAA termed "questionable recruit· ing practices." 
The NCAA ordered UNLV to suspend Tarkanian for two years at the time, but Tarkanian obtained a court order blocking the action. 
Tarkanian then sued the NCAA, beginning litigation that ended when the Supreme Court threw out the case. 
Tarkanian's last season at UNLV also ended un.der an NCAA cloud when UNLV was banned from postseason play and live television appear­ances because of alleged rules violations. 
This past season at Fresno was a particularly rough one for Tarkanian because of play­er arrests and suspensions and public scrutiny. 

The Association of Art History Students and the Snite Museum present: 
Awfr 2IDJIDcdl ufrnce; JFIr®IID(1:frn m®W®llDllfrn®IT1l 
a talk given by Philippe Bordes, Professor, University of Nanterre, France and former director of the Museum of the French Revolution, Paris 
THURSDAY, APRIL 2 at 7:00pm EIGHTEENTH-CENTURY GALLERY SNITE MUSEUM 
Softball 
continued from page 24 

to the schedule on Tuesday as a doubleheader. While the second game was called due to rain, the first game was a huge success for the Irish, who won 6-2. 
After the home team took a quick 2-0 lead in the bottom of the flrst inning, the Crusaders tied the game with one run apiece in the second and third. In the fourth inning, the visitors loaded the bases with one out, but grounded into a dou­ble play in their next at-bat. In the fifth, sopho­more Tara King hit a two-out, two-run double to drive in Amy Laboe and Sarah Mathison for the winning runs. Freshman Lizzy Lemire then sin­gled in King, and later scored on a double by catcher Kris McCleary. 
Nichols earned the win to improve her record to 4-4 on the season, while Valpo's Jill Campbell took the Joss. The win boosts Notre Dame's record to 13-16 and snaps a two-game road skid. Valparaiso fell to 3-10 on the season. 
"We really played well out there," King remarked on the victory. "We got to an early lead, which helps out our pitching staff a lot, and then came back in the end to win it." 
The next clash between the Irish and the Crusaders, barring the weather, is scheduled for today at 4:30p.m. at Ivy Field. 




Thursday, April 2, 1998 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
page 19 

Continue the Lenten joume 
Three N 

ts,
I 
FourL 

s 


I 
I 
"' I l 
Monday, March 3 
Love: All in the Family "···· The unconditional love that unite ··•·· · nt and child, brother and sister creates tHe bon .•.....·. is family. 
Presenters: Mrs. Audrey Brosnu..~.·...··,<Nf~"" ...·"'·" Heights College and Notre Dame students; Music p by Coro Primavera 
Thursday, April 2 
Love: It Had to be You Thelovethatbringstoge is rooted in God's tender 1 ·••·· 
Presenters: Rev. Paul•... ·• ..C., Rector of Dillon Hall and Notre Dame faculty c provided by Voices of Faith 
Monday, April 
Love: I'll Be There For Friendship is the instrum h God reveals God's deep and abiding love for 
Presenters: Rev. ter, C.S.C., Department of Theology and Notre students. Music provided bymem Choir 
will be an evening of prayer and
Morri~~e~ Manor C~a~el 
· reflection and discussion. will be served. Studen~ are
1:~~·~:J~ PM all three sessions or as many 
0MPU5 
three iliey can attend. tV11NI5TRY 
c_ J 
page 20 The Observer • CLUB SPORTS Thursday, April 2, 1998 
• fiELD HOCKEY 


By TIM CASEY 
S orrs Writer 
Despite being the newest official club sport on campus, the field hockey program has been very suceessful in its early existence. 
The team has attracted experienced field hockey play­ers and blended them with novice players to create a solid team. A good number of the players were captains of their high school teams and received scholarship offers from other colleges before choosing Notre Dame. 
Field Hockey was a varsity sport until being dropped about 10 years ago. There has been an unofficial team until this winter, when field hockey was approved by stu­dent activities. It is now recognized by RecSports as an official team. 
Junior Maureen lloover was instrumental in getting the team started. In the fall, she led a group which posted signs around campus promoting their sport and, with 63 members, helped form one of the biggest teams on cam­pus. 
This year, Hoover serves as the co-president of the team along with sophomore Stephanie Frigon. Freshman Liza Naticchia is the vice-president and will eventually take over as president. 
Hoover was very impressed with the turnout: "The interest around campus is great to see. The sport of field hockey has gained popularity in the past few years which helped us recruit the number of players that we did." 
Kristy Fleming, a member of the admissions depart­


O
ment, continues to help out the team despite graduating
neofthe 
two years ago. When Fleming was a freshman. she 
newest 
served as captain of the team. 

members 
This past weekend, the team hosted their first tourna­ment, termed the "Irish Classic." 
of the team, 
Indiana University and a club team from Illinois called
freshman J.R. 

Northshore played in the event along with two squadsDoria (top), from Notre Dame. The tournament was played in a round-robin format with eaeh of the teams playing each 
.... 
competed in 
other, with the top two teams advancing to the champi­
this Sunday's 

onship game. In the finals, the Notre Dame blue team tournament. was victorious over Northshorc. Sophomore Earlier in the tournament, the blue team scored a 4-1 
victory over Indiana. The Irish won the tournament
Carolyn 

despite not having a goalie. Freshman forward MeganRoderick Hector was Notre Dame's leading scorer on the weekend, (above) takes tallying four goals. 
The team practices Mondays and Wednesdays at
an elbow from a 

Stepan fields and during the winter inside the Loftus North Shore Center. They have had trouble practicing due to conflicts player. with varsity practices, but have still had most of the team 
show up when practices arc held.
President of 
This dedication has been an integral part of the success 

the field hockey of the team. club Maureen "The players are all very dedicated people," Hoover said. "We've had most of our practices at around 10:30
Hoover (right) 
at night during the winter at Loftus. We all love the game
drives the ball 
which has made the team such a suecess." 

downfield. The future looks bright for the team after the success of this inaugural season. Hoover encourages all students to play and has high hopes for the future of the program. 
"Any undergrad or grad student is more than welcome to play," she said. "Even players who have never picked up a stick are more than welcome. It's a great sport and our eventual goal is to become a varsity sport in the future." 

. ~ 
:~· ...-....:.••t'~ .....<"":••: -(" • , .. !"' "'• ':'"l";"'j"~''!"'.f ';";""~·· •'\'~ ~-~· ~ "': ..,. ~ .& t''j-~·····!&'/" 't'.,;•••t''\'&"./!" t ~ ... ,.. ............ .......·~···6:_4"~• ..-..._,..4\"&~'f''~"llo'f''~ ....... ~ ..........,...,.....,....,..-\'&", ... , .......~,"-............._............ "'l'&"•"A'.olt,''"...'""''~',A' .&'.&'~'&'"'•',A"•" .&..'~"...'"'\'~-,~·~·"'·~·.-·'\ '.A".&'t'•;• ·,...-.,........,;..& "./''t'A;.··~·-l
a -.· .0. 



Thursday, April 2, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 21 
• BASEBAll 
Irish pitchers hold Western Michigan to four hits 


40th Annual Collegiate 

-
Jazz 

-
Festival 

April 3&4, 1998 •Stepan Center 
Friday 7:30 pm • san.day Afternoon1 :30 pm • saturday Evenlnl7:30 pm Tickets IVallblllt till doer lit thll.aFO..r. lnformllllla Bilk. 631-8128 CJF PREVIEW NIGHT Gal the Stu~*~~ Unlln 11.-.1 r.. mn lnfOrmltlon: 831-7757. 
Wldnlsday, AprD 1 at 8 pm mthe Lafortllle Ballroom • AIBIIslon Is FREE Kick an the festiVal by listening to 1111 Jm b•ds and e .. oymg free r_efreshments courtesy oldie Student lJnlon a.d. 
_;_,.w_.;._.;.~;._,•--~,;.~__. ___._._·.;. ___._~~·-·--···&·-------.. -·----·--~-··· '"''"'• --~-~--.., 
By DAN CICHALSKI 
Senior Staff Writer 
It wasn't the prettiest game, but the Irish did have one thing going for them -pitching. 
Five Notre Dame pitchers held Western Michigan to one run on four hits Wednesday in an 8-1 victory at Eck Stadium. 
"Everyone who pitched today, it was their day to throw any­way," head coach Paul Mainieri said. "We just let them get their workout during the game. They helped us win." 
Alex Shilliday, Tim Kalita, Chris McKeown and Scott Cavey each threw two innings for the Irish, and Aaron Heilman pitched the ninth. The staff combined for 14 strikeouts, surpassing the season-high 13 they fanned against Loyola University on Valentine's Day. Notre Dame averages 8.4 strikeouts per nine innings, which places it fourth in team history. 
"It's great we got a lot of strikeouts," Mainieri said. "It was difficult to play defense today with the weather." 
Rain and a wet field delayed the start of the game by 35 minutes. It then let up for the start, but came down steadily during the last three innings. 
Western Michigan pitchers, had trouble finding anything in the vicinity of home plate. The Broncos' five pitchers combined for six wild pitches and catch­ers .Joe Seestadt and Ryan Hamsdell each had one passed ball. 
The wildness began in the first inning. Allen Greene led off the game with a walk, but was then caught stealing on a pick­off play. 
Western Michigan st.,arter Brad Block walked J.J. Brock, Jeff Felker and Jeff Wagner to load the bases. He then struck out Brant Ust and got Jeff Perconte to ground out to end the inning without allowing a run. 
The Irish capitalized in the second, though, when Alec Porzel led off with a single to left. Todd Frye bunted him to second, and Dan Leatherman ripped a single to right field for a 1-0 lead. A stolen base and wild pitch moved Leatherman to third. 
After Greene walked, another wild pitch brought Leatherman home and Greene made it from first to third. A Felker single to left brought Greene in to make it 3-0 and gave Shilliday his fourth win against two losses. 
Notre Dame added another run in the fourth when Leatherman led off with a sin­gle and moved around the bases on a wild pitch and ground outs by Greene and Brock. 
"J.J. did some great situation­al hitting today," Mainieri said, specifically referring to the RBI ground ball. "That's what you call a veteran hitter. He gets the job done instead of trying to do too much." 
Western Michigan's only run of the game came in the sixth inning. After McKeown got the first two batters to pop up on only three pitches, designated hitter Derek Lindsay drilled a 1-1 pitch over the center field is all about." 
"With our lineup, we really don't have a top or bottom." Porzel said. "The middle stays the same every game, but coach mixes the rest up. Anybody is capable of hitting anywhere in the lineup. We're solid all the way through." 
That solid lineup will return to the field Thursday to take on Bowling Green at 5:05 p.m. Then the Irish will take off for a three-game series at Boston College this weekend. 

fence. 
The Irish responded in the sixth and seventh, scoring four runs on only two hits, all by the bottom six places in the batting order. Porzel capped the Irish scoring with a two-run home run, his second of the season. 
"I was coming off a bad at-bat and you always want to get out there again and do well," said Porzel, who entered the game hitting .226. "I attribute every­thing to coach (Cory) Mee. He's always good at helping us get our confidence back." 
The sixth through ninth spots in the Irish batting order were responsible for seven of the eight runs and five of the six hits Wednesday. Porzel, Frye, Leatherman and Cooke, who pinch hit for Leatherman and then played right field, com­bined to go 5-for-9 with three RBI. 
"That's nice to know even when Wagner and Ust don't have a great night," Mainieri said. "That's what being a team The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, April 2, 1998 
Sachire 
continued from page 24 
have." 
A craving for action seems to have been stirring in the ever­hungry Sachire from the start. 
By the time Sachire was six years old, he was banging balls for hours on end at a basement wall with a sawed-ofT, wooden­handled racquet. 
Although not a sophisticated start, Sachire earned his first victory at age eight and fell in love with the sport. 
"It was fun," Sachire said, laughing at the still-vivid memo­ry. "I didn't know what was going on. But I won in three long sets, and I was happy." 
That's when Sachire's curiosity about a sport he watched his parents play for leisure became his life-time investment. 
He used to practice so relent­lessly that this dad, who also served as his coach, would actu­ally force him to take days ofT. 
"[My dad's] biggest fear was that I'd get burned out,'' Sachire said. "At the time, I thought what he was doing was so bad. 

up a season-high 20 saves. 
Now I can see he helped keep

"They didn't have a bad
Lacrosse 
the desire in me."

defensive e!Tort," Corrigan said. The Observer/Jeff Hsu 
The spark lit by his parents

continued from page 24 "They just have to put that No. 1 singles sensation Ryan Sachire, boasting a season record of 13­
has now become a full-blown 

3, will challenge No. 18 Boise State Saturday in a rematch.
together with a great o!Tense." 
inferno. Torching 80 percent of
ter,'' said Savage. "We just have Aware of what they must do, his dual match opponents this sweat-stained cap stands near a time."
to get the chemistry down." the Irish hope to use Ohio State year is not only attributed to his court to cheer on his best friends Despite being focused on the"As long as we keep up the to give them the confidence they talent, but also to his desire. until the end. present, one eye still sneaksintensity, we'll do well," added need to pave a winning way to "Ryan's a good tennis player,'' "His enthusiasm and support glances at a future in the pros. 
Dusseau. the championships. 
teammate Eric Enloe said. "But rubs off on all our team mem­"It's always been a dream ofThe defense will look to do the "This week we've had a di!Ter­
his competitiveness is what sets bers," said Sachire's doubles mine,'' the Ohio native said. "Itsame on the other side of the ent attitude," said defenseman him apart. He wants to win more partner Matt Horsley. "Playing might be a long shot, but I'mfield. Their effort was led by Todd Rassas. "We're going to than any guy he plays." with him the last two years has going to give it a legitimate try." 
goalie Alex Carle last weekend step it up, we know it's do or die Although Sachire plays singles, been such a great experience for Even though Sachire thinks it's against llobart. where he picked time." 
it was his team effort that first me. I've learned from him that a shot in the dark, it won't be 
caught Bayliss' eye at the the amount of success you have surprising if his future is in the 
Western division of the Junior comes with hard work." limelight.
.zsl'Men's lacrosse~-~= 

Davis Cup match when Sachire Although Sachire's win column "His best tennis is still ahead of was a high school senior. is lengthy, his losses are what him," Baylss said. "There's a 
3 p.m. 

"Tennis is such an individual urge him to keep winning. good chance you might see him acct Butler 2 p.m. 
sport," he said. "J was really "Losses kill me inside," said on T.V. one day. lie's curving in impressed when I saw Hyan Sachire. "I show my emotions; I the right direction." 
..--G~eorgetown 1 p.m. 
cheering on his teammates." take it seriously. But I think this Maybe the pros don't know heMASSACHUSETTS 1 p.m. 
Even if his match or an entire is a good thing. It makes me is coming. But that seems to be
1 p.m. 

tournament has been decided, even more determined to pre­the way Saehire likes to arrive ­HOFSTRA 2 p.m. 
the lanky player wearing a vent it from happening the next unexpectedly . 
.. 
HOME OF THE READY-TO-WEAR MEAL 
:·t:,-:f'·,c·::\:J.:~·-·:t:'>f _:.;;;.:·-···.,.·.~·-·.,,,~,; ··i ·~•),<'+' .~(:~~_;;>"r:;· ;~\~;J:'~':".'"'_..:•~""'''"<o;• 
A BLOCK AND A HALF WEST OF THE HALL OF FA 





Thursday, April 2, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 23 

MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 

1-lUI"'.f>.t-.1 RESOURCES IS 
PRESCRIBING POWERFUL 
ANTIDEPRESSANTS TO II"\PROVE 1"\0Rt>.lE.. 

DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
Aries: Pick and choose the team you most want to "oin today. Strange ideas are certainly the most 
IHE LABEL 5A'<5 IT MAY CAUSE "UNWARRANTED OPIII"\I5M ABOUT '<OUR DEAD-END J."OB.'" 
61 Restaurateur of  
song  
62 Fictional pooch  
63 Where to meet  
the Mets  
64 Gives orders, in  
away  
65 Something to  
say?  
66 First name in  
fairy tales  
DOWN  
1 Wad  
2 Staffers  
3 February  
forecast  
4 "S.W.A. T."  
lieutenant of  
70's TV  
5 Ones who are  
fair  
& Protracted  
7 Rare blood  
type, for short  
8 Pen chamber  
9 Rumors  Puzzle by Karen Hodge  
46 Words before  53 Gulf war figure  
"toes" or "best  54 Pull a pistol  
behavior"  55 Jumble  
49 Swamped  56 Penny_  
50 Starbucks order 57 Geographical  
51 Land on the  heptad  
Red Sea  58 Science course  
52 Ward of "Sisters"  requirement  
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle  
are available by touch-tone phone:  
1-900-420-5656 (75~ per minute).  
Annual subscriptions are available for the  
best of Sunday crosswords from the last  

attractive, but the associat­ed results may be less than productive. 
Taurus: When the pace picks up at work, adopt a flexible style. Digging in and holding your position will only cause increased resistance. 
Gemini: Let your mind wander today, and be sure to keep talking so that your friends are along for the ride. Plans for the future begin in the strangest places. 
Cancer: It becomes clear that not everyone under­stood the original plan. Certain gaps appear between actual and pro­jected results. 
Leo: Nobody is going to agree with you today, so don't even ask. You might end up having fun if you follow someone else's lead for a change. 
Virgo: You may be the soul of practicality, but sometimes you could bene­fit from yielding to sudden impulse. Spontaneity does not necessarily end in waste and ruin. 
Libra: Romance happens on your terms today. Anything is possible, and most of the possibilities are likely. 
Scorpio: Use a gentle touch on issues of home and family. Choose your words carefully, and steer clear of certain thoughts. Your loved ones may not agree with your sweeping solutions to their pr-oblems. 
Sagittarius: This is a wonderful time to connect with many other people. The Internet was made for days like today. Surf with wild abandon, stopping here and there to stir things up in a chat room. 
Capricorn: Today is marked by your willingness to take an unusual finan­cial risk. A big return requires substantial invest­ment. 
Aquarius: Appearance isn't everything, although you certainly look fantastic today. What really attracts attention at the moment is what you say or do. -Pisces: Logic does not have much of a place in your activities today. Trying to decipher events as they happen will only be a waste of time. The reality behind all the madness will show itself in a few days. 
• 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Barrelhead bills 5 Cartel 9 Prepares, with "up" 14 Leleiwi Point site 15 Abandoned 16 Astrodome athlete 17 Perfect place 18 "The --lama, he's ...": Nash 19 Stiff necks 20 Specs for Elmer Fudd's gardener? 23 Bore 24 Baby buggy? 25 Elmer Fudd's quiet frontier? 32 Use the ax 35 Stand in the Rockies 
3&"Now--me down ..." 37 Adjust, as the wheels 39 Turncoat 40 Dinner partner of film 41 Avis lead-in 42 ---ladder 44 Raise. with "to" 
45 Elmer Fudd's colonial cooking utensil? 
47 Former queen of Spain 48 Unsavory 
52 Elmer Fudd's borrowed troubles? 
58 Kind of law 59 Punjabi princess &oNe plus ultra 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Thi~ Weekend... Ac: o u s t i c: Caf e T h ur s day , Apri I 2 9 -mi dni ght i n t he Hud d I e Tix available at ­

the door or at the Lafortune Info deik 
~ ~ 

SPORTS 
page 24 Thursday, April 2, 1998 
• SOFTBAll 
Irish take on weather, Valpo 
By BILL HART when it plays host to Valparaiso East season against divisional Assistant SportS Editor this afternoon. rival Hutgers. After rallying to Despite carrying a disappoint-win the first game 5-4, the 
At this point in the season for ing record into the confines of team then lost the nightcap 9-2. Notre Dame's softball team. Ivy Field, the Crusaders pitch-On Sunday, the Knights became fans have to wonder which is ing staff has tried to keep the the first team ever to throw a the greater obstaeln: the oppo­team in every ballgame this perfect game to the Irish, win­nent or the weather. year. Last season, the team lin-ning 5-0. 
As thn Irish head towards the ished with a record of 17-35 If history provflS to be a factor m i d point of 
,-------::=----, overall and 4-6 in the Mid-in today's matchup, Notre 
thn schedule, Continent con-.------------~ Dame has an 
overcast ference, good overwhelming 
skies and 
thunder­~7~~~hi~\~!~~ Notre Dame,ff:6!J\m ::~; ad~~~~ storms have division. V a I par a is o, given them "I think V 1 • 2 including their little chance they're definite-aparaiSO · last 12 wins. to improve ly a team we In fact, the on their Nichols should beat," Irish have not record. senior Kelly Nichols said about lost to the Crusaders since 
On Tuesday, intMmittent rain the Crusaders. "Their pitching 1989, the team's first season. forced the cancellation ·or a staff isn't overwhelming, so we In 1996, pitcher Angela Bessolo doubleheader against Western should be able to score a lot of tossed a rare no-hitter against Mir.higan. Ten days earlier, runs ofT them. They've got some them at Ivy Field, blanking anothnr rainstorm prematurely good hitters, but we should be them 8-0. end1HI two games against able to take care ofthem." Yesterday, the two teams Toledo. The Irish will get Before the rainout against the played a game that was added another opportunity to take the Broncos, the Irish traveled to field this afternoon. however, New Jersey to begin their Big see SOFTBALL I page I 8 
• MEN's lACROSSE 
Fighting to turn season around 
By ANTHONY BIANCO 
SportS Writer 
It's do or die time for the Irish. 
Arter having dropped three straight games, the men's lacrosse team. now at an even 3­3 on tlw season and rank1~d 19th nationally, must go into each r.ontest fighting for the plays, fighting for the goals. lighting for tlw win and fighting for another trip to the NCM tour­nanwnt. 
But this Fighting Irish squad is ready for the challenge, and seeks to prove that today against Ohio State. This is also Notre Dame's second contest for the season in the Great Western Lar.rosse League; the first was a 12-6 Irish victory at the hands of Air Foree. 
• 
Tlw Irish wnnt to work this wenk in practieP focusing on the sanw 1~lmnents that lost them their last contnst, the 11-7 
Ilobart win. 
"At the end of the day, the lit­tiH things wen' our biggest prob­lems," said head coach Kevin Corrigan. 
The last contest was lost for the Irish at midfield. Unable to clear the ball up to feed the attack, Hobart kept the ball in their zone, where they worked 11 goals onto the board. 
"On offense. we haven't been possessing the ball as much," said junior Ben Savage. "We n1wd to value our possessions more." 
-
The team hopes that working on the basics, starting at the midfield,' will lead to a harder Irish otl'ensive press against the 
Buckeyes. works the ball upfield, they will Chris Dusseau. Of the three, only 
"By focusing on the fundamen­be without the services of fresh­Savage began the season start­tals. we'II be able to do every­man Dave Ulrich, the team ing on attack. thing a little better," said middie leader in assists and points. On "We're working on getting bet-Dan Butler. attack for the Irish will instead 
see LACROSSE I page 22Once the Notre Dame midfield be Savage, Stedman Oakey and 


• MEN's TENNIS 

By M. SHANNON RYAN 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Nobody was expecting him. Now they pace before he even arrives. 
The name prompt1)d a shrug of indifl"erence from opponents prior to last year. But now utter the words "Hyan Sachire," and chances are more than a few knees will wobble. 
Coming to Notre Dame slight­ly unknown, Sachirn was just hoping for some playing time. But almost two years later, he has blasted into the national spotlight and now holds the identity of the No. 26 collegiate tennis player. 
"Nobody, including myself, thought I'd come in and play No. 1 singles [my freshman year]." said the top man in the No. 24 Irish lineup. "I just wanted to start or at leas(trav­el with the team. It was excit­ing, getting to juri1p in like that." 
Finishing last year as the regional rookie of the year and advancing to the NCAAs singles tournament, Sachire was tagged the season's surprise. 
"It was tough last year as a freshman, playing mostly juniors and seniors," he said. "(My opponents] would say, 'Who's this guy? I've never heard of him.' But I tried to use that to my advantage." 
And college tennis players around the nation received a chilling introduction to the Irish sensation. 
This season, Sachire has upheld the weight that his name carries as well. 
"With a high ranking. basi­cally everyonn knows me, and they raise their level," he said. "I know that on any given day I can lose because people are gunning for me." 
Accustomed to wearing the bullseye logo, few have been able to shoot down Sachire this s1mson. 
Saehire's sur.eess has become so certain that he can usually be spotted by the wake of destruction hn leaves on the court. Dismantling the No. 3, H and 14 players in the nation this year. he now boasts a 13-3 rer.ord in singles and a I 2-2 mark in doubles. 
And what olse but wins would be expeeted from some­one whose revnrence for the game is so deep that his lirst thought in the morning often involves a racquet and a little yellow ball? What else is there for someone who is so devoted to the game that his answer to a sore shoulder is to play it out? 
Everything Sachirc does can be summed up in one word: big. 
Although he looms at 6-f()()t­6, delivers a whopping serve of over 110 mph and has one of the most compact ground­strokes in college tennis, Sachire's largest weapon is his heart. 
"I've always been very com­petitive," said the two-time Ohio state high school singles champion. "That's what I love about tennis, even today: It's pure competition. Every time I'm out there, I'm giving it all I 
see SACHIRE I page 22 

Bowling Green Track and Field ~: Today, 5:05p.m. 
Butler/Miami 
• Field hockey plays home tournament 
SaturdayValparaiso 

-'!w 
see page +O
•

Today, 4:30p.m. 
at Boise State Ohio State 
'~ Saturday, I p.m. 
• Pitching wins game against Western 
~ Today, 3 p.m. Michigan
at William and Mary see page 2I at Ohio State 
v;P 
Saturday, I p.m. Saturday, I p.m. 
.1! 






