
-~-------~--­
• Scene gives Cypress Hill's new album tour 
• Why do women choose to enter the ROTC pro­
Wednesday

out of five stars. Check out the review to find 
gram and what challenges does the military provide 
out why. 
them? 
OCTOBER 14, 

Scene • 12-13 
Women's News· 3 
1998 

THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 38 WWW. N D.EDU/-OBSERVER 
• NEWS ANAlYSIS 

Asia crisis may effect job market 
By ERICA THESING N,·wsWriter 
Studnnts may havn a mon~ dil'lieult timn finding jobs aftnr graduation hncausn of tho Asian financial crisis, according lo .IPITn~y BPrgstrand, associate profnssor of 11nann~ and busi­nPss nconomies. 
BPrgstrand nxplairwd that the l'inaneial problnms in tlw Pacific Him haVI) rnsultnd in a dncrnasn ol' Amnri<:an exports to that rngion, which slows the growth rate for the American Pronomy. OvPr tlw past three ynars, the U.S. economy's growth ratn has b~)en thrno per­l:ent. hut Bergstrand prodicts that it will be lowPr this year. 
"That tlwn moans loss job growth," ho said. "That means for students nitw months from now at graduation, a weaker job rnarknt." 
As Bergstrand explained, the Asian linandal probll~ms began with a rapidly growing .Japannso stock markot that saw a two-thirds loss in value over thn last eight years. 
"In 1990, tho bubble burst in tho .lapanPse stock market," he said. "Af'tor running up high and fast in the latn eighties and poaking at 43,000 yon, it has plumnwtncl over tho last eight years to 13,000 yen." 
A tightening of liscal policy in .Iapan, which is the socond­largnst nc.onomy in the Paeifie Him next to the Unitnd States, contributod to tlw weakening of thoir oconomy. said Borgstrand. A tightening of fiscal policy moans that a govornmont docrnases its spending while incrnasing taxes. 
"Tho Japanese economy slowed clown dramatically starting in about 1990 and con­tinuing to this date," Bergstrand said. 
Tho .Japanese economy is 
Pacific Him nations, which con­
tributed to the spread of the financial crisis. As the Japanese economy weakened, so did those of its neighbors. 

Bergstrand explained that in the spring of 1996, the Japanese economy started growing again due to some fis­cal stimulus in 1995. In the spring of 1997, however, Japan 1~: tightened its fiscal policy by raising taxes and slowing gov­ernment spending. This occurred just prior to the finan­cial crisis in East Asia during 1~ the summer of 1997. 
"As the financial crisis hit, it just became really clear that thoro would be no growth going on in all those countries," Bergstrand said. "Their stock markets started coming down and their currencies started depreciating. You had a series of banking and financial crises, 

elosely tied to that of other see ASIA I page 6 


By MEGHAN DONAHUE Cross sistors, the experience was The college originally began in News Writer enlightening. 1844 when the Sisters opened a "I enjoyed hearing tho stories girls' school in Bertrand, 
Saint Mary's Colloge remem­that each of the sisters told about Michigan. Soon the academy I>Prnd its roots and heritage her college experience, " Kelley became one of the earliest 'I"Lu~sday as students, faculty, said. "We lilled in the trivia ques­Catholic women's colleges to administrators and alumnae eeln­tionnaire that was on the table grant degrees. brated the I54th anniversary of together. It was a good way to The day is a way to remember the founding of tho College. learn about Founder's Day. I feel the past, according to Mother 
In honor of Founder's Day, tho more connected to the sisters and Pauline O'Neil, a past president of College community was offered school now." Saint Mary's College. the unique opportunities to tour The College eelebrates "The old days are gone, but it Hiedingnr Alumnae llousn and Founder's Day on or around is well to renew them from time tako part in the sharing of college October 13 in honor of Mother to time, for the spirit which memories with lloly Cross sisters Angela Gillespie and Father prompted them we cannot afford during a dinner. Edward Sorin, who are consid­to lose," said O'Neil. 
For. Carolyn Kelley, a sopho­ered the eo-founders of Saint Tours of Riedinger House also moro who dined with two Holy Mary's. 
see SMC I page 6 


-Nikkei index peaks at43XXJ 
-OOyento$1 
-145yento$1 -Nikkei index slumps to1IDJ -Government announces 10% ofGDPto be infused into Banking Sytstem 
The Observer/Marl< Higgins 


Clark: Irish need to provide more income equality 
By BRIDGET O'CONNOR Associate News Editor 
Creating a program to guarantnn a m1n1mum amount of income to all people in ln~land "on an equal basis" is the goal of a system proposnd by Charles Clark, profnssor of economies at St. .Johns University. 
"A basic ineome is a change in how society dis­tributes income," said Clark. This altPred distribu­tion would result in a "greater nquality" whiln still allowing the "materialistic in society to conspicu­ously consume." 
Tho objectivns of a basic inconw system am to: end poverty, reducn income inequality and increase social participation. 
"The goal is to get everyonn above the minimum income," he said. 
Clark bccanw intnrnsted in Irish eeonomie issues while working at University College, Cork. Eventually Clark was asknd hy the Council of Hcligious of ln~land [COHII to develop a basic ineome plan. i\ green paper, or introduetory docu­mnnt presenting a coneept to the government for discussion, on tho topic is planned to bn issund next fall. 
"There is a conspicuous lack of idnologieal com­mitment among live of the six political partins on economic issues lin Ireland I," said Clark. lin noted that the only nxception was the Progressiv1~ Democratic Party, but indieatnd that he did not identify with that party's positions. 
While the lack of political initiativn on thesn issues created the need for his efforts, the "genuine empathy for the poor in lroland" and recent attempts to raise social welfare levels in contrast to trnnds in the rest of the world created the rceeptive atmosphere. 
"The welfare state model is bncoming increasing-

The Observer/Manuela Hernandez Faculty, students, alumnae and administrators took tours of the Riedinger Alumnae house on the Saint Mary's cam­pus and had the opportunity to look at yearbooks and memorabilia dating back to 1949. 


Remembering SMC's heritage 
see CLARK I page 6 

-· 
page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Avery
.-. 
tnteresttng 
•

tttne ... 
"May you live in interesting times ..." 
This Chinese curse carries a very subtle meaning in its words, but it is still clearly understood by those who are familiar with it This past weekend 
C. R. "Teo" was indeed one of Teodorothese "interesting 
Illustrations Editor
times." This past weekend I had partic­ipated in the Notre Dame Encounter #52. I have heard from various people who had gone on previous NDEs that it was a most wonderful and joyous cxporience. It's too bad that my personal experience was not quite consistent with theirs. 
Now I did come to this retreat with an open mind. In fact, one of my expectations was that I would learn, possibly something about others and myself, as well as our respective faiths. This was my first and main expectation. I was also anticipating that wonderful feeling that everybody feels when he or she leaves the retreat. Unfortunately, it didn't happen exactly like that. 
When the retreat started on Friday after­noon, I did not have any complaints. Though there may have been some initial tensions, I figured it would smooth out soon enough. The problems first came up sometime during Saturday. Though I won't go into the details, what occurred was what I thought was an insult to my personal being and a violation of respect 
I have always been a loner most of my life, but I was hoping to change that. I thought that the NDE retreat would be an excellent oppor­tunity to do so. I wanted people to know me. However. the incident that occurred on Saturday shattered that hope. 
The staff didn't even know me. In fact, they didn't ask questions about me so that we could better communicate. They made assumptions about me that I didn't appreciate. It felt as though my feelings, my thoughts, my opinions didn't really matter to them. At that time, I just went back to being a loner. I thought to myself, "Hey, if no one wants to bother to try to know me, then why should I bother trying to make myself known?" 
I have always been different. At this retreat, I presented different and, sometimes, contradic­tory views. At times, some of the perspectives I presented were dark. I knew, however, that not everybody would understand. Still, I had tried to let others know something of me. 
In the end, I was not happy. While everyone else was smiling and hugging with little can­dles in their hands, I was standing alone in the darkness and hiding my emotions. I never did get used to the light. I always preferred the dark than the light. Sometimes the light gets too bright for me. By Sunday afternoon, I was hostile for most of the afternoon. It was only when I finally got back to my dorm and South Dining Hall that I began to feel better. 
Now don't get me wrong. The NDE retreat was not a complete waste. In fact, I did receive a better understanding of others and myself, and our respective faiths. That I did not enjoy myself at this retreat was not important. 
Please don'tlet my account diseourage oth­ers from applying for the NDE retreat. 
I know people would like to respond to what I have written. Please, before you do, I ask that you first talk to me about my experiences. To judge without knowing me would only make you look prejudicial, or that you are afraid to face the truths in what I might say. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TOOAY's STAFF  
News  Scene  
Colleen McCarthy  Kristi Klitsch  
Christine Kraly  Graphics  
Chris Lawler  Mark Higgins  
Sports  Production  
M. Shannon Ryan  Kerry Smith  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Eduardo Llull  Liz Lang  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the A~sociated Press. All reproduction righrs arc: reserved. 

• SOUTH BENO WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather" forecast f(Jr daytime conditions and high temperatures 
H L 
Wednesday~  56 39  
Thursday  ~  63 38  
'' '''  
Friday  ~  73 51  
Saturday  ~'  74 55  
Sunday  ~'  74 54  

-~..)'·/~_)' .. ~._ ... 
4,9-,~P.Q-8 l) ~ u 
Showers T·storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 


Vta AssOCiated Press  
Astoria  57  43  Durango  74  42  Reno  64  30  
Big Sur  67  40  Hyannis  60  47  Scranton  56  43  
Boise  62  35  Maui  81  66  Spencer  69  40  
Camden  66  45  Mobile  87  60  Toledo  58  39  
Cheyenne 72  41  Queens  62  48  Wichita  81  64  

LINCOLN, Neb. 
One UNL senior and his twin broth­er, along with two of their compan­ions, are facing first-degree murder charges in Denver. 
The men were being held without bond after being charged Thursday. 
David and Kevin Bills, both 21, of Council Bluffs, Iowa; Joshua Wright, 18, of Arvada, Colo.; and Kevin Snyder, 19, of Omaha are all charged in connection with the Oct. 4 stabbing death of 34-year-old Patrick Perry. 
David Bills, a senior at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln, was in Denver visitinw his twin brother Kevin, a senior at Metropolitan State College in Denver. when the stabbing occurred. 
Defense attorneys for the brothers, Phil Cherner and Jim Castle, said the four suspects saw Perry attacking a woman on the street in the early morning hours of Oct. 4 and stopped the attack. 


Denver District Attorney Bill Ritter's office was closed Monday, and he could not be reached for comment. 
Police responded to a report of a man beating a woman at an apart­ment complex that morning, but they found nothing when they arrived on scene. 
Two hours later police were called back to the apartment complex for a fight. 
The suspects said the man they had encountered earlier came back. "This guy comes back to the apart­ment complex and threatens my 
• UNIVERSITY OF MONTANA • UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND 
Low budget worries administrators Anti-gay column causes upset 
MISSOULA, Mont. 
UM officials are projecting a $2.2 million shortfall in this year's budget, following a lower-than-predicted fall enroll­ment. And that has Scott Cole, UM's vice president of admin­istration and finance, looking for wiggle room in the budget. "We're in the proposal stage," Cole said. "We're continuing to look at all the sources of funds and identify areas we can cut." Fall enrollment fell 473 students short of what was predicted by the current budget. The proposal offered by Cole at last week's Faculty Senate meeting calls for such things as a $500,000 reduction in the academic equipment and computing budget and a $450,000 reduction in the enrollment reserve fund that acts as a backup when enroll­ment falls short of projected figures. In addition to specific areas and amounts identified in the proposal, Cole is asking UM executive oiJicers, who are responsible for areas like academic affairs, research and student affairs, to come up with ways to carve another $315,000 from the budget. 
• DARTMOUTH 
Endowment decline due to stock market 
HANOVER, N.H. 
Dartmouth College's endowment has dropped nearly $100 million in the last three months-mainly due to a bearish and volatile stock market. The drop of approxi­mately 6.5 percent from its last publicly released size of $1.52 billion on June 30 would have been enough to fund the Berry Library and the Moore Psychology Hall projects combined. The endowment is money the College invests for the purpose of earning interest, and these generated revenues finance expenditures without cutting into the endowment. The Dow Jones Industrial Average, Wall Street's best known indicator, has per­formed even worse than the College's endowment how­ever, declining by approximately 12.4 percent since the end of June. Despite the large decrease in funds, Director of Investments Jonathon King said the College has little to be concerned about. 
COLLEGE PARK, Md. 
What began as a rally in opposition to hate speech Monday quickly turned into an open forum of students, fac­ulty and staff denouncing The Diamondback for irresponsi­bility and bias in the decision to print an inflammatory anti­gay guest column. Demonstrators at the rally said last Friday's column by Carter Clark went beyond the bound­aries of the newspaper standards and qualified as hate speech. ''I'm not advocating eensorship or suppression of opinion, but there is a difference bntween opinion and hate­mongering," said Marilee Lindemann. an associate professor of English and co-chair of the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual Faculty and Staff Association. "No newspaper has an obligation to provide a forum for the incoherent rants and raves of any­one -that is not suppression of speech" said Michelle Tobe, president of the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgendered Alliance, who had concerns with treatment of the guest col­umn that she said gave the columnist legitimacy. 
• UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE 
Delaware drinking policy to set a trend 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
As one of the top-1 0 binge drinking schools in the nation, the University of Delaware had the kind of reputation administrators did not like to talk about -it was a party school. Boosted by a $750,000 grant from the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation to light binge drinking, the universi­ty's administrators went on the offensive against alcohol abuse last year. They cracked down on parties and happy hours, and reformed the school's alcohol code. Delaware became one of the few schools in thn country to institute a policy of contacting the parents of almost ·every student who violated the school's aleohol code. Under legislation signed into law by President Clinton last week, Delaware's parental notification policy could become the model for colleges across the country. Federal law prohibits colleges from disclosing private information about students above age 18. 

Wt.:dnesday. (ktobn 14, 1998 page 3 


REDUCING THE GENDER GAP IN EDUCATION & THE MILITARY 




Females in the armed forces 
Military, ROTC allows women to be all they can be 
By JESSICA DELGADO 
Nl'wo.;Wnrl'r 

I.IH'atPd in front of Arlington CPmPtnry is tho Woman's National SPrVil'!' Monunwnt, which honors all tlw wonwn WhO haVI' l'ontribUt!'d a pin<~O Of tJH'mSP.iVI'S to the mili­tary. 
It holds a strong sPntinwntal value l'or Notro Damn o.;pnior and Navy BOT<: Marilw Options midshipman. Sharon lloulahan. 
"\ly family and I haw visitl'd this monum1•nt and I rl'lt a Sl'nSI' of tradition and apprl'riation," S)W Said. For lloulahan. joining llw MarinPs is somPthing that has inli'I'I'SII'd lwr sirH'!' lwron~ shn was a tPI'IJagPr. 
"Jjoiiii'd lh1• 1\lariiH'S ))I'('(! US!' IJikPd till' rhaiiPngo of' it, and I thought it was a gn•at opportunity to work with poo­plt•," lloulahan said. "I was 12 wlwn it was I'IPab Pan•nts Wl'l'k at \\'Psi !'oint. and my family and I WPnt up to son my brotlll'r. :\s I was vvalking down tlw linP, shaking hands with I'VI'ryonP I ramP upon tho Commandant of <:adPts. "An• you a radl'l'!" lw askPd. As I lookl'd up at him, I l'l'ml'llllll'n'd !Ill' imagp or tlw woman r;Hlots. 
"ThPy n•llPrtPd strength. appParPd put togotlwr. and sharp. I I'Pit so romplimPntPd that hn even told me that, and from that point on I krww I wantPd to have that imago l'o r Illysp I r." The Observer/Jeff Hsu 
l;or Amwtto Syndor, a junior in Army HOTC, there were Kate Neal (left) and Emily Rosenbach are students in Notre Dame's Navy ROTC program. Attending class in uniform dill'PrPnt rPasons that led to her choice to join the pro-is only the beginning of their commitment. 

J.(ram. 
"My ratlwr was in tho Air Force in Vietnam. but that had nothing to do with my deci­sion. I just nPPdod monny fi1r nursing," said Synder. "At first, I was exeited to join lwrausl' I thought I only have to givn four years aftor college and I get paid while I am in rolll'g(•." ­
It has not always lwnn this Pasy and to tho point. Before the women's movement in llw I1H,Os, nwn wnn~ the dominate sex in the military. 
WomPn WPrP only welcomed for administmtive jobs, nursing. and learning how to IH•ronw a pilot. Now tlw doors hav1~ swung wide open in all branches of the military. Today 97 fll'ITnnt or tlw spncialty jobs are open to women. 
"\Vonwn that ronw into the army have more of an interest in aviation," said l.iPutPIHtnt Colonol M.T. Edwards. 
From a ruling by <:ongrPss woman in the Army arn not allowed to be trained as a riflt•nwn, and lwcausn of the likelihood of actual combat woman are not be placed in infantry. Sinl'P 11) 1)4. the army has had integrated barracks in boot camp that forces nwn and wonwn to work together through their problems and on their own. 
"In tlw army it is very important to lmtrn the essence of teamwork," said Edwards. In tlw Army. mPn and wonwn an) scored dill'erently on the physical fitness test. Wonu•n scon• higlwr with sit-ups, while mnn display Uwir strength in push ups and pull ups. 
!Juring tiH' wonwn's junior and senior years, the intensity begins to rise. The sum-


Gender gap 
in math and seicnee aehitW€~:ID·fi'Wt but,i': lag In computer skills, un~,, A.rn~~rtMJrt:·,i' Assodation of Universlty said Tuesday. 
The women·s advocacy group also 
said girls still chl)OSe jobs and careers based on sterMtypes that persist. 
Guidanct\ counselors are over­worked to the point that tbey cannot stP.er girls into. nontraditional fields, thn group said. 
Tlw cont:lusions wHre atnnng many in u 106-pagH synthesis of data, rcseareh roports and journal and nnwspapnr artlclcs. The book. pa•·~~d by a private researcJi ,v~·5.,.,,~.-, zation. comes six years group's influential report equity in public sdtt:)g~~}( ·n~d)(>')••
Schools ,..,,,.....t."'"''"""' 
Th(\ now Gaps; Where >;l"'l'l"'"'~· ., Children," fuund enrolling in more 
bi<Ho1~V anltlieb!em 

mer after their junior year they take a test that reviews all of thn strategies, leader­ship skills and survival tips that they've learned the past three ynars. "Everything that you've learned throughout your whole life on top of the military stufT," said Synder. The test-takers include other students involved in other HOTC programs from dif­ferent places. 
"The test makes you ask yourself. 'I low good am I? Am I strong enough to make it? How much can I take?' It's a big mental and physical test," said Snyder. The Navy mn­sists of about 172 midshipman, 20 percent of whom are women. They are involved in combat support and flying F-1800s. Women are not allowed to travel on a submarine for a long duration of time, and they are not allowed to train to become a Navy Seal. 
Executive Officer and assistant professor of Naval Scimu~e CDH .John Boss, Jr. refers to the biological differences of the two sexes. "The Navy Seals have intense combat that women can't deal with bncause of the lack of profound upper body strength." said Hoss. 
The decision to be in the military is not an easy onn and it is not a place for every­one. Those people that do get through it set a great example of stren~-,rth, honor and confidence, according to Houlahan. "The Marines have taught m£) to lead by exam­ple and have helped me gain the confidence to demonstrate by leadership qualities,'' Iloulahan said. 
~""···""'t"·'• 
----~~-~--~-~-~---·---~------­
-
page 4 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, October 14, 1998 
• FACULTY SENATE 

Group adopts WRC probation matter, looks at honor code 
By DEREK BETCHER Assistam News Editor  hopes in coming weeks to speak with Joe Cassidy, director of  Stuart Green, associate professor of first year composition and lit­ 
Student Activities, officers of the  erature. "My sense is that some  
The student affairs committee  WRC. and WRC advisor Eileen  students  are  simply  unsure  
began deliberation on improving the University's honor code while also agreeing to adopt the Women's Resource Center (WRC)  Kolman. To elicit response from Cassidy -a key figure in the matter because he administers the WRC's probationary status ­ where their ideas start and where others ideas begin." Several other committee mem­bers noted procedural weakness  
probation matter as its primary issue for this term.  the committee considered offer­ing to meet in smaller groups  in the current system. Michael Chetcuti, associate professor of  
"I am asking that the student a!l"airs committee make [the WRC issue] their first priority and that they have a motion to present to the senate by the December, January or February meeting,"  with him or to accept a written reply to their list of questions. Having charted its early course on the WHC issue, the student affairs committee decided to wait for its WHC information-gather­ chemistry was among the critics. "The !disciplinary] process is fairly unwieldy and fairly lengthy," he said, adding that it is sometimes in a student's and professor's best interests to avoid  
senate  chairman  Michael  ing to yield results, and moved on  a  tenuous situation and handle  
Detlefsen said.  to discussion of the University's  violations on a limited, informal  
Detlefsen said his decision to  honor code. The honor code  basis.  
make that request came after roughly 20 faculty members con­tacted him and urged that the senate address this summer's  serves to guard against academic cheating and plagiarism, but some student affairs committee members wondered whether the  "We don't want to overturn the bonor code. We simply want to The Observer/Dave LaHeist rewrite it to reflect the actual Michael Chetcuti (left) and Lieutenant Colonel Michael Edwards Were processes that people use," among faculty members discussing the WRC and the honor code.  
decision by the Office of Student Activities to place the WRC on two-year probation for having pro-choice abortion literature available. When the senate separated into committees during last night's meeting, members of the student affairs committee began to plan their response. Central to their discussion was uncertainty over precisely how the University monitors and disciplines its stu­dent groups and organizations. "These are the questions: How do clubs get disciplined and what arc the rules? And. how does du Lac apply?" asked committee chairwoman Ava Preacher, assis­tant Dean of the College of Arts and Letters. To answer these questions and begin its work, the committee  honor code and its disciplinary Preacher said. system contains philosophical In his chair's report at the start of the full senate meeting,'THESE ARE THE QUES­Detlefsen, TIONS: How DO CLUBS a profes­sor of phi­GET DISCIPLINED AND WHAT losophy, ARE THE RULES? AND, HOW updated t h eDOES DU LAc APPLY?' Faculty Senate on A VA PREACHER six items, ASSISTANT DEAN OF THE most of which COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS resur­f a c e d weaknesses. later in the meeting. "It's not enough to just say Among the items, he reported 'Don't plagiarize.' We need to on effects of the senate's May show students how to interweave resolution supporting revision of others' ideas properly," said the non-discrimination clause.  The resolution was forwarded to the Academic Council form that body's executive council for full deliberation, which has been postponed pending further research. "It was agreed that there was a need for more research to be done before we proceeded on the issue," said Detlefsen, a member of the Academic Council. To aid that investigation, he asked the senate to appoint rep­resentatives from three of its committees -administration, academic affairs and student affairs ­to brief and advise him on the points of the non-discrimi­nation clause issue. Detlefsen also reported that the Academic Council is also consid­ering the senate's resolution regarding improving Notre  Dame's academic standing in the U.S. News & World Heport rank­ings. Senators Sterling and Cosimano are working with the Provost's Office to refine their recommendations, which should be finalized by December or January Detlefsen said. The plan they have prepared calls for the addition of 150 faculty to the University during the next 10 years. Detlefsen also discussed his report to the Board of Trustees in which he identified for the lead­ers areas of interest that will appear in this year's senate agenda. The tenure system at Notre Dame, propos1~d entry into the Big Ten conference and this summer's legal activities in the Athletic Department were three issues distinguished.  




0 Why Consulting? 0 
N N 
A Come see why consulting can be an A s exciting and rewarding career for any s s eng1neereng mGJor.. s 
0 
c 


ThursdayI
I 


A 6:00 T 
0 
c

October 15~ 1998 
I 

-8:00 p.m. A T

Montgomery Theater
E E 

s Pizza. Veggies. Cookies will be servedl s 



Wednesday, October 14, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 

S. African church may change 
.J011ANN1\SBUHG 
South Af'rira was poisPd to takP anotlwr stPp toward n•<·orH·iliation TuPsday wlwn thn whilP church that f'ornwd thP rnligious back­bon!' of' apurt.lll'id lwgan ronsidnring inlngra­tion with its non-whilP rountnrpart. But the proposal rPport('(lly has angnrnd provincial hranrlll's, who arf' thrf'alPning to sncnde from tiH• Dutch ({pforrnnd Church lo knnp llll'ir r·Piigion sPgrPgalnd. Church orrir.ials from around t.ht' country worn gallwring Trwsday for dPbatf' hdorf' a votn on tlw nwrgPr on WPdnPsday. Tlw deeision was on tiH· agPrHia of' tlw I')')X national nwPting, which or<·urs PVf'ry four yPars. The lluteh HPI'ormnd Churrh is tlw main rPiigious dPnonrination of' Af'rikarwrs. llw Dulch­d<~SrPrHlf'd white snttlf'rs of South Af'riea. 
Former Pentagon analyst arrested, charged with spying 
WASJ!IN<iTON 
Thf' FBI chargnd a forrnnr analyst with tlw I'Pntagon's sup1~rsmTf'l National SPcurity Ag<~ru·y with sdling top del'nnse secn~ts, includ­ing targHs for U.S. nuclear w1~apons, to tlw Sovil't Union during 1988-1991 for $60,000. Tlw fornwr mnployee of the govnrn­nwnt's top f'avnsdropping and eode-brnaking agPrH:y, David Shnldon Boonn, 46, who has IH'PII living in (iprmany, was arrPstnd after bf'ing lun~d lwrn by an FBI sting in which agPnts pospd as spii'S for Hussia trying to w~t him to rPsumP spying, tlw .Justien DepartmPnt said. Boorw was to makP an initial appnaranee today bdorf' U.S. Magistratn .Judgn Welton C. SPwPII in Alt>xandria. Va. liP was chargnd with PspionagP, which carrif's a top pnnalty of lifn in prison, or dPalh if cm"tain conditions an~ mnt. 
Charges upgraded in Wyoming student's death 
IAHAMIE. Wyo. 
ThP bnaling dPath of a gay UnivPrsity of' Wyoming sludnnt inspirnd eondolnnces from anoss 1111' rountry, as l'n•sidm1t Clinton and al'tivists askPd lm,;makl'rs to give homosnxtrals tlw protP<·tion of' hate-crinw laws. Mattlww Slwpard, 21. diPd at a Fort Collins, Colo., hos­pital Monday after sper11ling several days in a l'oma. Ilis skull was so badly fracturml by the hPaling that doctors said tlwy couldn't operate. Slwpard was found Wmlrwsday in near-fmez­ing ll•mpPratures, lashed to a split-rail post outsidl' l.aramiP. Charges against Huss1~ll Arthur lllmderson. 21. and Aaron .James McKimwy, 22, w1~rn upgradml late Monday f(JI­Iowing Slwpard's death, thn eourt dm-k's ofliee said today. Ilendnrson and MeKinnny werp, <:har-g~•d with first-degree murdPr, aggravated roblwry and kidnapping with intent to inllict bodily injury or to terrorizn the victim. The n111rdPr count is punishable by death. 


ASSOCIATED PBESS 
STOCKIIOLM 
Five scientists at universi­tios in the United States won the Nobel Prizes in physics and chemistry today for work exploring the inner structure of matter. Their researeh has far-reaching implications, from a new gennration of microelectron­ics to undnrstanding the destruction of Earth's ozone layer. 
Thmn physicists will share the prize for discovering how elPctrons can change behavior, work that could lead to further advances in microelectron­ics. 
Two rnsnarehers wPre named eo-winners of the chemistry prizn fur theoreti­cal work on the quantum properties of molecules. 
In each ease, the winners 
•ISRAEL 

will share the $978,000 prizes. 
The chemistry award went to Walter Kohn of the University of California­Santa Barbara and John Pople of Northwestern University. 
Kohn, a 75-year-old native of Austria. has taught at 
U.S. institutions since 1950. He was cited for develop­ment of density-functional theory in the 1960s. It sim­plifies the mathematical description of the bonding between atoms that make up molncules. 
His approach makes eal­eulations according to an average number of electrons located in any point, rather than trying to establish the motion of each electron in every atom in a moleeule. This reliable model has enabled scientists to study large molecules that previ­ously were too complex and unwieldy to understand. 
Kohn, a physicist, said of winning the chemistry prize: "You may think they made a mistake." The prize, he said, recognizes that science has a "kind of unity" and that "interdisciplinary acts can be fruitful." 
Pople, a 72-year-old British citizen, joined the Northwestern faculty in 1986. 
He was cited for develop­ing computer techniques to test the chemical structure and details of matter. The resulting computer program is used by thousands of uni­versities and companies worldwide. In the 1990s, he has refined the program to indude Kohn's density-func­tional theory. 
Ilis approaeh allows scien­tists to create computer models of chemical reac­tions that are difficult or impossible to recreate in the laboratory. It has a wide range of applications, from studying interstellar matter based on telescope mea­surnments of' its chemical signaturns and how pollutants such as freon react with the ozone layer. 
In mndicine, researchers use Pople 's quantum chem­istry methods to simulate tlw effects of proposed drugs to fight I!IV infection. 
"I consider this a grnat honor not only for myself. but for all the stucilmts who have worknd with mn ovnr thn yPars," Po pin said of winning the Nobnl. 
The laureates in physics aro Hobert B. Laughlin of the United States. I Iorst L. Stormer of Germany and Daninl C. Tsui, a native of China who is now an American citizen. 

Netanyahu sees no accord novv 
AssociATEU PREss 

JERUSALEM 
On the eve of his departure for a make-or-break Mideast summit in Washington, Pr.ime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Tuesday that no deal would be signed on an Israeli troop pullback follow­ing the fatal shooting of a student. 
The violence near a communal fal'm outside Jerusalem undnrscored the key issun of Thursday's summit: Netanyahu's demand that the Palestinians do more to prevent terror attacks against Israelis. 
"In light of this gloomy reality, there is absolutely no chance, at this stage, of signing an agreement," said a statement released by Netanyahu's office. 
On Tuesday, an unknown assailant 11red a pistol at two Israeli men bathing in a spring near Ora, west of Jerusalem. ltamar Doron, a 24·year-old student from Ora, was killed and his friend, who was not identi· fied, was in 'critical condition in Jerusalem's Hadassah hospital with gunshot wounds to the chest 
and stomach. The assailants' car was later found abandoned near the West Bank. 
Netanyahu said that if tho assailants fled to Palestinian territory, as has been tho case in the past, Yassir Arafat's Palestinian Authority must work immediately to apprehend them. 
Netanyahu has agreed in principle to hand over 13 percent of the West Bank, with some restrictions. The United States wants Netanyahu and Arafat to conclude the agreement on the troop withdrawal. 
In exchange, Israel wants security guarantees from the Palestinians. 
Israel TV, quoting an unnamed source clostl to the talks, said CIA director George Tenet had eompleted a deal on security favored by both sides. Tenet was in the region last week and met with Arafat and Israeli officials. 
Netanyahu has come under increasing pressure from right-wing members or his government and newly appointed Foreign Minister Ariel Sharon, who oppose ceding land to the Palestinians. 
page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, October 14, 1998 

Clark 
continued from page 1 
ly dysfunctional." said Clark. He presented the basic income model as the "route to change." 
A basic income model can be implemented on either a full or partial basis. Clark's preference is the full implementation which, used universally, would elevate all citizens to at least a minimum level of wealth. In the plan he presented, all citizens would be issued a payment from the government, regard­less of need on a graduated schedule according to age. Children would receive the low­est payments and the elderly would receive the most. 
A partial version of the plan would require means testing to determine who would be eligi­ble and would likely leave some members of society still below the poverty level. Thus, supple­mental programs would still be necessary to achieve the goals. 
A flat tax on all incomes is used to finance most basic income proposals, according to Clark. His proposal called specifically for a "Social Responsibility Tax" of eight percent in addition to a 46.3 percent flat tax. 
SMC 
continued from page 1 
served as a way to acquaint the College community with the history of the school. 
"That house is the best kept secret on campus," Kelley said. 
Built in 1939 as a base for home economics majors, four seniors rotated every nine weeks in and out of the cottage under the supervision of Sister Laurita. 
"Many people don't know that we even had a home eco­nomics program at Saint Mary's," said sophomore Beth Castricone. "I think it's won­derful to see how far we've come." 
The house is named in honor of Adaline Crowley Riedinger, class of 1864. 
She was the first alumna to send her daughter, Mary 

Such a program would require a redefinition of the nature of work, placing more value on activities other than paid employment. Clark con­tends that these activities con­tribute as much, if not more, than paid employment to soci­ety. 
"I actually think that some­thing like a basic income might be implemented in [Belgium or the Netherlands] fairly soon," said Clark. Belgium is attracted to the proposal for the likeli­hood of a reduction of the workweek from five to four days per week resulting from the system. A similar program is already in place in Alaska which operates from oil rev­enues. 
"The basic income isn't enough to get people to stay home," said Clark, responding to conservative arguments against his plan which suggest that there would be no incen­tive to work if people were· guaranteed an income. 
Clark maintains that the min­imum payment would not be enough to deter people who would otherwise be working from doing so. 
Rather, he believes the plan would provide a basic income to those, who for some reason 

Adalaide Riedinger, to Saint Mary's College. Her daughter graduated from the College in 1889. 
"This house is full of life, even when no one's here," said Michelle Egan, assistant direc­tor of alumnae relations and a 1993 Saint Mary's graduate. 
Tours of the house also included a display of yearbooks dating back to 1949 and a brief history of the College. 
"I thought it was interesting to hear about Father Sorin's contribution to the college," said Castricone. "Our connec­tion with Notre Dame is intri­cate, but it's good to remember we're just as important." 
Addie Cashore, assistant director of alumnae relations felt the history that was includ­ed as part of the tour was an integral part of the tour. 
"A look into the past makes us look to the future," Cashore said. 
Got News? Fill us in. Call The Observer at 631-5323. 


HOLYCROSS ASSOCIATES-CHILE 

Information Session 
Thursday, October 15th, 7:15pm @ the Center for Social Concerns 
Learn more about the HCA Chile program. Bring your questions, pick up an application, and hear about the challenges and opportunities of spending two years of service in Chile! 
Holy Cross Associates PO Box 668, Notre Dame IN 46556 Phone: 1-5521 Fax: 1-6813 E-mail: nd.hcassoc.1 @nd.edu http://www.nd.edu:80/-hcassoc/ 
were unable to work. 

He noted that most segments of the population would proba­bly continue to work the same amounts, but that some mar­ried women in the lower income brackets may decide not to work after receiving the payments. 
This possibility has raised some opposition from feminist groups who feel that "if you set up a system where women can opt out of the labor force, it will hurt the women who decide to work," he said. 
Clark argued that this cri­tique is a class-based argument and that many women would be better of because they would be receiving an independent income, whereas the current system ties benefits to marital status and other factors. 
"Certainly nothing will hap­pen until the monetary union," said Clark when asked about th{} likelihood of his plan being adopted by the Irish govern­ment. "Even after the monetary union, will this be adopted? I doubt it." 
The author or editor of five books and over 50 publications, Clark is currently doing research for the Department of the Taoiseach, or Prime Minister, of Ireland. 
Asia 
continued from page 1 

and massive currency depreci­ations among the East Asian currencies." 
He explained that at the yen's peak in 1995, it cost 80 yen to purchase one American dollar. From 1995 to the last few weeks, that exchange rate increased to as much as 140 yen to one American dollar. 
Earlier this week, however, the yen began to bounce back. On Tuesday, the exchange rate was 120 yen to one American dollar. 
"In the last week, the yen's had some tremendous strength," Bergstrand said. 
He explained that this strengthening came from both the expectation and realization that the Japanese government would begin to infuse capital amounting to 10 percent of its GNP into the banking and financial system. 
"That's a huge investment of capital to shore up their bank­ing system," Bergstrand said. 
The financial problems in the Far East have affected their investors through their stock markets, which has also had an adverse affect on the American stock market. 
"Financially, in terms of investment, the Far East has 
suffered tremendous losses," Bergstrand said. "That erosion of stock returns is also hitting out economy ... It is very possi­ble that the {American) stock market will have zero returns this year." 
Bergstrand also addressed the relationship between the banking systems and govern­ments of the Asian nations, especially in Indonesia. Bergstrand commented that this interaction is too close in many nations. 
The financial systems in countries such as Indonesia are not as transparent as the American system and, unlike the U.S. financial market, can hide certain problems, he said. 
Tonight: 
$3 All You Can Eat Wings 


Also, 
cup night is on Wednesdays now!!! 

Tuesday, October 13, 1998 
• SECURITY BEAT 
FRIDAY, OCT. 9 
2:19p.m. A Pungborn Hall res­ident reported the theft of her biko from outside of O'Shaughnessy Hall. Her bike was not locked at the time of the theft. 
7:15 p.rn. Seeurity transported n Sorln Hall resident to St. Joseph Medical Center for treat­ment of sports injury. 
SATURDAY, OCT. 10 
11:38 a.m. A St. Edward's HaJJ resident rt:>ported the theft of his hike from a bike rack at llayElS 

Want to share? Buy a classified. 
IN DEMAND 
The world is turning to informa­program develops your intuition tion. That's why employers turn about how things will work in to the University of Michigan the future, then helps you em­School of Information to find ploy your new insights in some top talent. of the most progressive orga­
From archives to the World nizations in the corporate and Wide Web, from next-genera­nonprofit sectors. Our innova­tion librarianship to information tive Ph.D. program prepares economics, 51 puts you in touch you for a research career in this w1th the training, tools, and tech­growing field. nology you'll need to excel. The information revolution is 
Students from diverse aca­upon us. Prepare yourself to take demic backgrounds-comput­a leading role. ers. humanities. math, and so­
Graduate Studies 
cial sciences -gain direct ac­

in Information
cess to our world-class faculty. The dynamic two-year master's www.si.umich.edu 
INFOR 
ATION 

HelpHansel NeighborhoodService Center help people 

~·.~············· ••••••~....~........... , ....... , ••••~·.················································'-'•'•"' .. ,','•'•'•'•'•'•'•'•'•'•'•'J 
Join the United Way/Notre Dame team and pledge your support today.Pledge forms will be mailed this week. 
Hansel Neighborhood Service Center­
Heut6ee WeU.J~ 

offering day care, transportation services and 
Sewice Ces!Wt, 1~. 

emergency financial assistance 
----__.....,
--~--------------~ 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
SUNDAY, OCT. 11 Healy. His bike was not locked 1. 2:27 a.m. A visitor was at the time of the theft. arrested by Security for public 
2:15p.m. A Pasquerilla East intoxication. resident reported the theft of her 4:03 a.m. Security cited a bookbag from the North Dining Siegfried Hall resident for public Hall. Her bookbag wus left unat­intoxication and minor consum· tended at the time of the theft. ing alcohol. 
10:55 p.m. Security cited an 4:49 a.m. A Lyons Hall resi· O'Neill Hall resident for public dent was transported to St. intoxication and minor consum· Joseph Medical Center for treat­lng alcohol. ment of a sports injury. 
11:40 p.m. Security cited an 5:10p.m. A Stanford Hall resi• 
Alumni Hall resident for public dent was transported to St. intoxication and minor consum­Joseph Medical Center for treat· ing alcohol. ment of a sports injury. 
McGarry appointed rector in Jerusalem 
Special to The Observer 
Rev. Michael McGarry, Paulist priest, ecumenical scholar and pastor of Newman llall/lloly Spirit Parish in Berkely, Calif., has been appointed rector of the Ecumenical Institute for Theological Studies at Tantur, Jerusalem, by the Institute's administrative board. 
McGarry's appointment becomes effective Sept. 1, 1999, upon the retirement of fellow Paulist Rev. Thomas Stransky, who has served as Tantur's recotor since 1987. 
"Father McGarry will bring a unique combination of pas­toral, academic and adminis­trative talents to a complex and demanding position said University president Father Edward Malloy, who chairs the Tantur board. 
McGarry graduated from St. Paul's College in Washington, 
D.C. in 1971 and holds advanced theological degrees from the University of St. Michael's College in Toronto. 
lie taught theology there and at the University of Texas in Austin before joining the staff of the Paulist Center in Boston, which he directed from 1979­1986. 
While serving as rector of the 
Holmes to read poetry tonight 
Special to The Observer 
The poet Janet Holmes will read from a collection of her poems, ''The Green Tuxedo," today at 7:30 p.m. in the auditorium of the 
Hesburgh  Center  for  
International Studies.  
Holmes  won  the  1999  

Ernest Sandeen Prize in Poetry for collection, which was recently published by the University of Notre Dame Press. 
Holmes, who lives in Saint Paul, Minn., teaches poetry writing at the University of Minnesota, Macalester College, and The Loft, a writing center in 
· Minneapolis. 
A graduate of Duke University and the Warren Wilson MFA Program for writers. she is the author of a previous book of poetry, "The Physicist at the Mall," which won the 1994 Anhinga Prize. 
Her work has appeared in Antaeus, Poetry, and Shenandoah, among other periodicals, and two of her poems, "The Love of the Flesh," and "Against the Literal," were selected for inclusion in the Best 

Paulist Fathers' seminary in Washington from 1986-1993, he also represented the Archdiocese of Washington, D.C., in an ongoing Catholic­Lutheran dialogue and was a member of the Faiths in the World committeo of the National Association of DiocHsan Ecumenical Officers. 
Since 1988, he has boen a memb1H of the Christian Scholars Group on Judaism and the .Jewish People and served as its chair from 1991­1994. 
A consultant on Caholic­.Jewish relatins for the National Conference of Catholic Bishops, McGarry also serves on the advisory board of the National Catholic Center for Holocaust Education at Seton Hall College and the Interreligious Coordinating Council in Israel. 
In addition to a book entitled "Christology After Auschwitz," he has written numerous arti­cles on the .Jewish-Christian relations for a wide variety of' popular and scholarly journals. 
Established jointly by the University of Notre Dame and Pope Paul VI. in 1971. the Ecumenical Institue for Theological Studies is located just outside .Jerusalem on the road to Bethlehem. 
American Poetry collections of 1994 and 1995. respec­tively. She also won the 1997 Pablo Neruda Prize in poetry. 
The Sandeen Prize for Poetry was established in 1996 in honor of Ernest Sandeen, prol'essor emeritus of English at Notre Dame, who died last year, having served on the Notre Dame faculty sinco 1946. 
One of the most respected and affectionately regarded teachers of' pootry in the University's history, he pub­lished poems in a wide vari­ety of' literary periodieals in this country and abroad. 
Ilis books of poetry include "Antennas of Silenee," "Children and Older Strangers," "Collected Poems 1953-1977." "Like Any Road Anywhere," "A Later Day, Another Year," and, most recently, "Can These Bones Live'?" 
Holmes' reading is spon­sored by the Paul M. and Barbara Henkels Visiting Scholars Series, the Creative Writing Program, the department of English and the University of Notre Dame Press. It is free and open to the public. 

~---~-­
f page 8 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS .Wednesday, October 14, 1998 
r=================~====~~~========~======~~~~~====~==~~ 
Francois is indict"'··~· for murders, eligible for death 
Associated P cess  The charges make the for­ Grady did not immediately  jury, including eight counts of  charge was added in her death  
mer middle-school hall monh  .return  a  telephone  call  soecond-degrefl !flUpder and  in the indictment.  
POUGHKEEPSIE. N.Y.  tor  eligible for  the death  Tuesday seeking comment.  one count of secptul-degree  The  indictment  claims  
Kendall Francois was indict­ed Tuesday on eight counts of first-degree murder. one for each of the eight women  penalty. Dutchess Gou11ty District Attorney WilHam Grady has ·120. ·days • to de.eide whether he will seek to have  The women all died by "trau­matic" asphyxiation. according to Poughkeepsie police. Francois, 27, has been  attempted.·assau.lt; (Jntil Tue!)day, J"l.e had been charged With o.nly ·M count of second-degree · der in the  Francois killed Newmaster; Gina Barone, Kathleen Hurley, Mary Giaccone, Sandra French, Catherine Marsh,  
whose bodies were found stashed inside his house.  Francois executed,if heis"K found guilty.  indicted on 17. counts in all by the l)u"tchess County grand  death of Catina •.... ······• 25. A first~.i:legree  .~p.aster,murder  Wendy Meyers, and Audrey Pugliese.  


Suspect to be charged in Olympic bombing 
Associated Press 
WASJIINGTON 
The Justice Department is 
preparing to charge Eric 
Robert Rudolph, already a fugi­
tive in an Alabama abortion 
clinic bomb­
ing, with the 
r--~~!!ll1'1 
1996 bomb­
ing at the 
Olympics 
and two 
other attacks 
in Atlanta, 
officials 
s a i d Eric Robert Tuesday. Rudolph Two fed­eral law enforcement officials said a complaint charging Rudolph with the Olympic blast and the 1997 bombings of a gay bar and an abortion clinic, also in Atlanta, was ready to be filed. The complaint was to be filed as soon as Justice Department officials were able to schedule a news conference to announce it, perhaps as early as today, according to these officials who requested anonymity. Rudolph was placed on the FBI's 10 most wanted list last May with a $1 million reward after he was charged with the Jan. 29 bombing of a Birmingham, Ala., abortion clinic. He disappeared shortly after that bombing. For months, the FBI has con­centrated a futile search by hundreds of agents in rugged, mountainous wilderness of western North Carolina, where the 31-year-old carpenter and experienced woodsman grew up and is at home. Buried garbage from canned food he may have consumed has been found and he is thought to have taken food from one elderly resident this summer. but he has eluded capture. In May, the FBI said he was wanted for questioning in the three Atlanta bombings. "Some similarities in the bombings ... indicate the possibility that the crimes are related," FBI Director Louis Frech said then. Since then, investigators have assembled "all kinds of pieces" linking Rudolph to the Atlanta blasts. one investigator said Tuesday. But the bare­boned complaint being readied will not disclose the new evi­dence, this official said. The decision to bring charges came now because "we have the evidence to support it, and it might be helpful for the pub­lic to understand the full spec­trum of what he's sought for­so people watch out for him and do not help him," a senior federal law enforcement offi­cial said Tuesday. The most recent public link between Rudolph and the Atlanta attacks came last month, when a Tennessee gun dealer identified Rudolph as the man who bought a "special order" of about 50 pounds of smokeless powder four years ago. The senior law enforce­ment official said that powder 

has been connected to the July 27, 1996, bombing at Centennial Olympic Park in Atlanta. but added that this was only a small part of the case that has been developed. 
The Olympic bombing killed one person and wounded more than 100 others. An off-duty policeman working as a guard was killed and a nurse was injured in the Birmingham bombing Jan. 29. 
Rudolph was last seen Jan. 30 near his home in North Carolina, where his truck was abandoned. 
In May, Freeh outlined "a significant linkage" between the Birmingham and Atlanta cases. 
He cited the fact that letters claiming responsibility and signed "Army of God" were sent after the Birmingham inci­dent and after a February 1997 bombing at a gay bar in Atlanta. The block-lettered Army of God letters protest abortion and homosexuals. 
'SOME SIMILARITIES IN 
THE BOMBINGS ••• INDI­

CATE THE POSSIBILITY THAT 
THE CRIMES ARE RELATED.' 
LOUIS FREER DIRECTOR OF THE FBI 
Frech also noted that abor­

tion clinics were targeted in 
Atlanta in January 1997 and in 
Birmingha,m this year. 
Frech added that all the 

bombs "were powerful antiper­
sonnel devices -containing 
nails -that were designed to 
kill and m.aim." 
Secondary bombs planted at 
the Atlanta bar and clinic may 
have been designed to harm 
law enforcement and rescue 
workers, as might a last­
minute telephone warning 
before the Olympic blast, some 
investigators have said. 
Investigators earlier had said 
they believe all three Atlanta 
attacks were the work of the 
same person or people. And on 
March 17, the task force inves­
tigating the Birmingham bomb­
ing was merged with an older 
task force assigned to solve the 
Atlanta bombings. 
The Southeast Bombing Task 
Force is working in Alabama, 
Georgia and North Carolina on 
all four attacks. 
The Olympic and Atlanta 
abortion clinic bombs had one­
eighth-inch-thick steel plates 
designed to direct the blasts. 
These plates were found to 
have the same general formu­
lation of steel, one agent said. 
Some of the manufacturers 
who make that type of steel 
sold it in the Southeast, includ­
ing to a metalworking plant in 
Franklin, N.C., where an asso­
ciate of Rudolph worked, the 
agent added. 

MY SUPERHERO THE SUPERJESUS 
Solid State 14 Sumo 
Sale dates: October 11-24, 1998. 








Wednesday, October 14, 1998 The Observer • NEWS page 9 

• MEXICO 

Explosion kills at least I 0 
TULTEPEC 
A pile of gunpowder used to rnakr. illogal fireworks explod­C'd just north of Mexico City today, flattening two blocks and killing at least I 0 people. A paramedic said he counted 14 bodies and that 45 people wcwe injured. 
Mexico statn Gov. Cosar Camacho Quiroz said at least I0 people died and 27 were woundr.d In thtl P.Xplosion in Tultopoc, 20 miles north of Mexico City. lie said 16 houses were destroyt~d. 
But a paramedic at the 

scene. who spoke on custom­ary condition of anonymity, said he counted 14 bodies, and that at least 45 people were injured. 
The differing c,asualty counts could not immediately be rec­oncilod. 
1n Tultepcc, a crater indi­cated the place where the explosion oceurred, and all the houses in a two-block aroa were reduced to rubble. Streets were covered in shat· tered glass blocks away. 
Neighbors blocked rescuers and journalists trying to get near the site of tho explosion. Angry crowds said a gas tank had exploded, but the smell of gunpowdor was strong and television images taken from a helicopter showednearby piles of gunpowder. 
Hesidents picked through rooflng and wooden slats in an apparent soarch for survivors. 
Tuttepec is known for its fireworks, and many residents produce them illegally in their homes. In June 1997, an explosion in one home killed three people. 
In 1988, a Mexico City mar­ketplace where illegal fire­works were sold exploded and set off a string of fires, killing 62 people and injuring 83. 


Congress nearing end of budget talks 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 
Their differences -dwindling, 
White llouse and congression­
al budget bargainers said 
Tuesday that they were near­
ing agreement on school 
spending and other issues 
snarling a massive $500 billion 
bill for the new fiscal year. 
White House chief of staff Erskine Bowles met most ol' the day with Hepublican lead­ers, including a two-hour evening session with top law­makers from both parties that focused on education. Bowles said progress had benn made and he would return to thn Capitol Wednesday morning for more discussions. 
"I think wn havn a good chance to be done tomorrow," he told reporters. 
House Majority Leader Dick Armey, H-Texas, said staff would work overnight on edu­cation, agriculture and several other out­standing dis­putes so that 
With tho Nov. :~ eongrnssion­al elections approaching, Republicans wnre dnarly aching to get back to their dis­tricts to dnfend tlwir llousn and Senatn majorities. 
"It's time to get back and campaign," said Hep . .John Linder, ll-Ca., chairman of the House GOP's campaign com­mittee. 
With Clinton spnnding a fourth straight day calling for more education spending, Drnnocrats were happy to be seen as lighting in Washington on behalf of schoolchildren. 
"It's important people understand what Democrats are for," said H1~p. Martin Frost, D-Tnxas, leader of tlw llouse Democrats' campaign committee. 
As a deal s1wnHHI to draw near, lawmakers from both parties nervously snarchnd for wins and losses in a package that seemed likely to give Clinton most of the extra spending he has wanted and triumphs

Wednesday's 
'IT'S IMPORTANT PEOPLE for both sides 
bargaining 
on policy dis­

UNDERSTAND WHAT
session could 
putes.

be the last 
DEMOCRATS ARE FOR.' Democrats 
"We're com­said they w1~re 
mitted to com­
worried that 

ing back at 10 REP. MAW/1N FIIOST 
administration 

a.m. and fin-LEAIJE'R OF HOUSE DEMOCRATS' bargainersish it, close 
CAMPAIGN COMMflTF:/1 would snttln
it,"Armey 
said. 
Though 
Hepublicans were ready to 
provide the $1.1 billion 
President Clinton was 
demanding to reduce grade­
school class sizes, the two 
sides have been lighting over 
key details. 
Clinton wanted the money 
specifically set aside for hiring 
100,000 teachers; Republicans 
wanted local officials to choose 
how to spend it and wanted 
money set aside for special 
education teachers. 
In separate meetings among top House Hepublicans and Democrats, leaders of each party said Clinton would prob­ably not achieve his demand for about $1 billion a year to help local governments build and repair schools, said onn participant in each meeting who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
Democrats also wantnd to require most federal workers' health plans to cover prescrip­tion contraceptives, but Hepublicans wanted to let insurers opt out if they had moral objections. And Clinton -joined by Senate Minority Loader Tom Daschle, D-S.D. ­was continuing to insist on bil­lions of dollars more for farm­ers reeling under plummeting crop prices. 
for less than 
Clinton was 
demanding l'or 
teachers, school construction 
and family planning. They 
were also unhappy with a dnal 
between the administration 
and COP nngotiators that 
would in effnet lay asidn for six 
months the light ovnr whnther 
scientific sampling would bn 
used in the 2000 census. 
"We arc not in agrenmnnt yet with any arrangement or any bill." cautioned llousn Minority L1~ader Diek Gephanlt, D-Mo. "There is not a bill yet." 
At a GOP leadership ment­ing, lloUSI) Speaknr Nnwt Gingrich, H-Ca,, asked his col­leagues for support for a nwa­sut·e hn said would contain vie­tories for both sides, said Hep, David Mcintosh, H-Ind. 
"Earlier this we1~k. I wasn't optimistic we'd win on many issues but now it's truly up for grabs," said Mcintosh, a con­servative leader. 
At stake was a giant bill cov­ering nearly a third of' federal spending for the nnw fiscal year. including the depart­ments of llnalth and Human Services, Agriculture, State and Interior. 
Of thn 13 spending bills for the new year, the night unfin­ished ones arc being paekagnd together. 

Looking for a Part-Time Job? 
We are hiring for the following positions: 
• 
Assistant Retail Manager, BACK OF THE NET SPORTS(25-35 hrs,l 

• 
Retail Customer Service, BACK OF THE NET SPORTSil0-20 hrs.l 

• 
Soccer Instructors, SoccERZONE 

• 
Maintenance, SoccERZONE 

• 
Office Receptionist, SoccERZONE 

• 
Concession Workers, SoccERZONE 

• 
Soccer Referees, SoccERZoNE 


Send your resume or stop by to fill out an application at: 
... BACK 
,_,c.: n-= Niill 
s~ I MA-W lOA 
I 

1435 University Drive • Granger (East of University Park Malll 219-243-5777 • FAX: 219-243-5778 
VIEWPOINT 

page 10 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT M.~R\''s OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Reinthaler Kyle Carlin 
AssiSTANT MANAGING EOITOR 
Heather MacKenzie 

NEWS EDITOR .. . . .......... Michelle Krupa ADVERTISING MANAGER .............. Kerry McParrlin VIEWPOINT EDITOR .................. Eduardo Llull An DESIGN MANAGER.... . ......... Brett Huelat SPORTS EDITOR .................... Kathleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER... . ... Michael Brouillet SCENE EDITORS... . ........ Sarah Dylag CONTROLLER.... ................Dave Rogero 
Krisri Klirsch WEB ADMINISTRATOR .................. Jennifer Breslow SAINT MARY's EDITOR .......M. Shannon Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR .....................•......... Pete Cilella PHOTO EDITOR ........................ Kevin Dalum 
The Observer is the independent newspaptr published by rhc students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. h docs nm neces..o.arily reilect the policio of the admini!>tration of either institution. The news is reported as accur:udy and objectively as possibfc. Unsigned editorials reprcscnr the opinion of the majoriry ofthe Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, As.-.islam Managing Editor and deparrment editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the view~ of the a1,nhurs. and nm necessarily rhose of The Observer. Viewpoint space i!> available to all members of the Notre: Damc:/Saim Mary's community and to all readers. The free: exprL'SSion of varying opinions rhrough lt'rrcrs is encouraged. 
Contacting The Observer Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 63!-5313 Managing Editor/ Assistant ME 6.~ 1-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Svsrems 63!-8839 Sports 631-4543 F·ax 631-6927 Scene/Saint Marv's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu Day Ediror/Vie,_;point 631-5303 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu Office Manager/General Information 631-7471 News E-Mail observer.obsnews.l @nd.edu 
• liKE ARROWS IN THE HAND OF A WARRIOR 
Don, or on the Love of Life 

"Excuse me, may I share the bench with you? I'm all out of gas." The day before the Michigan game an old Domer sat next to me. He told me about how campus had changed since he had left 
Gabriel Martinez 

in 1952 for Syracuse. He was amazed at how buildings appear to grow like corn in lloosierland. "The library wasn't here then," and he told me rumors about sto­ries about the 13th Floor. 
On his NO hat and on his shirt he had a button of a smiling girl. "A grand­daughter, yes, my Laura. It's been a year since slw died, passed away. She was live then. They tell me I should get over it. But slw was special. I love'em all, my eight grandchildren, but she was special." Laura had a weak heart, and they operatPCI on her over and over dur­ing her few years. "lll~r heart was all messed up. I held her the day she was born. and she was not bigger than my forearm. They operated on her three or four clays later for the first time." 
The physicians kept operating in Buffalo, doing their best to sustain the little girl's life, until they gave up and told her parents she should be taken to Pittsburgh. There she waited for a heart transplant. The physicians said that her three-year old body would not survive, that a transplant would be useless. But then a heart came up, and it gave Lama a new hope. She would live. 
"Then, with the guidance of ultra­sound, the physician inserts forceps into the uterus. grasps a lower extremity of the fetus. and pulls the extremity into the vagina. The physician then uses his fingers to deliver the other lower extremity, followed by the torso, the shoulders, and the upper extremities. The head, which is too big to pass through the dilated cervix, remains in the internal cervical opening. At this point, while lifting the cervix and apply­ing traction to the shoulders with his or her fingers, the physician takes a pair of' blunt curved 
Metzenbaum smile. "I am scissors and having a by-pass forces the operation Oct. scissors into 1:~, and they are the base of the walking so fast." skull. Once the Don got a pic­scissors has ture with entered the Touchdown skull, the Jesus, and (I physician hope) saw his spreads them game. to enlarge the Yesterday, I sup­opening. pose, they opnr­Finally, the ated on his physician heart. llrrw removes the much would hn scissors, have loved to inserts a suc­give it to his tion catheter granddaughter. into tlw hole, Then again, 
and removes something tells the skull con­
m1~ his heart is tents. The too big for any­head will then one's body, no 
compress. matter how 
enabling the physician to remove the fetus complete­lv from the woman." 
·-Voinovich v. Women's Medical Professional Corp., United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, in strik­ing down Ohio's House Bill 135 (which prohibited Dilation and Extraction pro­cedures, also known as partial-birth abortions). 
'She was like any other kid you see running around. She was vibrant-a vibrant child." She gave her parents and her grandfather two more wonderful years. Iler vibrant little body eventually said good-bye: it had given all the joy and all the sorrow it could give. One day her brother came down the stairs yelling: "Mommy, mommy, Laura is lying on the floor." A heart attack took her away, without pain, without delay. "My wife keeps te!Hng me that: She did not suffer." 
"We went through a lot for that kid." 
Laura's parents adopted two children from Russia, precious children who will learn English as fast as kids do, but nobody will take Laura's place. The sleepless nights, the prayers, the effort, and the time at the hospitals: that, and more, was the price they paid for her priceless life. She will never fade from memory. 
Don's mouth showed me how much he cared. His eyes were covered, but his lips trembled as he spoke of his grand­daughter. She never got to see a Notre Dame game, she never got to walk on this hallowed ground, as he called it, and she will never graduate from her grandfather's University. But he carries her picture always, where he can sec it. 
Eventually, he said good-bye, and immediately turned back. Three mem­bers of his family had walked up to us a while before, and now they walked away. "They are trying to kill me," he 
said with a 


vibrant. 

May God bless you, Don. May God will that your Laura, llis Laura, wateh over you. 
Gabriel Martinez is a graduate stu­dent in the Economics Department. !lis column appears every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Obseruer. 
• 0.UOTE OF THE DAY 
'Don't you tell me to stop, I'll stir-fry you in my wok!' -Beastie Boys 
• iJOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
PeTeR, tvePe H/31<6 ON me ANI? Hl3R6 SH/3 COMEJG 
/(Jti/Jl; HOU!iietAtUN/WAITING NW/5Hf3.SifJ411/M3, 
l'i7IZ /?R. /A!J!<&N 5t.OAP,A BUTfT170f3.SN'Tt/XJKUK£ 
PSYCHIA77?15TSP!3C/AL./ZJNG SHf3.G&OIN& 7057DP 
FCJ( t;U5T/{..1/11!:> !I~
IN CO'I1P!JLBON ll/SORI?&R~... 


VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, October 14, 1998 -----------------os~ERVER ----------------------------------------------page II 
• THE BELLE OF SAINT MARY's 

The 70's: A Hideous Decade Revisited 
Tlw Boyfrim1d's dorm hostnd a thmne dance this wnekPnd. Theme was the seventies. Hideous theme. llidnous dncadn. llidnous dothes, hideous music, hidPous hair. hideous dancing, hideous polities­Pvnry last shred of it, hideous hideous hideous. You wonder why God simply didn't throw up his hands, !!!!!!!:==============!!!!!!!!!! smite the 
Mary Beth Ellis 
entire human race, and just start over. I consider myself extra­ordinarily for­tunate that I have no recol­lection of the 

brief span of Llw snventins for which I was in 1~xistence, as I was otlu~rwisn occupied with receiving ovations from my IHtrl'nts for figuring out how to wee-wne correctly in tlw big girl potty. Although how my dassmatns and I 1~ame to be in tlw first place, I've no idea: I have seen pictures of the way 1weryone voluntarily looked in the s1wnnliPs and I honestly don't understand how these people could bring themsPIVI~S to actually touch one anotlwr. 
Now, gmwrally I'm not a University cnnspiratist­one of those people who believe that, for instance, fire drills arf' timPd spncil"ically for the nxacl moment wlwn you, IH'rsomtlly, are in the shower-but you can't tPII me that tiHw11 wasn't some sort of Office of Studl'nt Affairs hand in ensuring that at an event known to ofl!m result in inter-gender contact at the l'nd of tlw 1wening, that the ovnrall point of the entire PVPnt was for evf'ryon11 to look as unattradiVfl as humanly possible. 
For WP were a danee of ugly, ugly people. There was such a large coneentration of people setting off waves of n~pulsivenoss that the FAA had to roroute traflie in ordPr to avoid Stanford llall airspaee. Guys in avocado polyestl'r were wandering around the hallways inquir­ing of orw another, "Do I look ugly enough to piek up my date yet?" I know I was ready to go when I regard­l'd my !wavily blue eyeshadownd self in the mirror and was promptly assured that no male, at any time, in any phu:e, with any amount of previous feminine deprivation, would lind me oven romotely appealing. And once I got to tho dance I mado my date, a person wearing leaf green eorduroy pants, a red plaid jacket, and a shirt of some unidentifiably grotesque color keep a minimal distance of at least twenty paces at all timPs. Is this a body of people with a great deal of hook-up potnntial? No, my friends: You may rest assurnd that no onn got anything at the Stanford Hall Seventi1~s Dance. 
In tlw easn of procrnation in thn actual seventies, however, I highly suspect that narcotics were involved at somn point in all eontraception processes. 
Sometimes I worry that I wasn't born closely enough to the end of the sev1mties to escape its influence of gnrwral tastldnssness. I mean, look at how we Nixon through Carter babies turned out: even our brief expo­surn to the seventies resulted later in life in neon shorts, Halph Machio and deliberato artistic support of New Kids on the Bloek. (Admit it, ladies. ADMIT IT. Who was your favorite? Donny? Mine too. And, plnase -was Danny just a gonetic mutation, or what? I rnnan, nw. Discuss.) 
Why in God's name do pnople insist upon reliving the crappiest decadn, stylisticly, since the colonial era, wlwn 1wnryorw just kind of covered up with squirrel pPlts? Is it the Watergate-Monicagate corollary? Bm:ause if it is, I feel it is my duty to inform you that Monicagate is aWAY better scandal than Watergate. Wn have Linda Tripp, for example, while the Nixon era only got, at its most humorous, Archibald Cox. You just can't buy that kind of mocking potential. 
Mary /Jt•lh Hllis is a senior at Saint Mary's College majoriny in Hnglish ll'filing and political science. In .lfl'neral, ml'n u•anl lu•r. and women want to he her. 1/er column usually appears ezwry other Tuesday. 
"l"ht• t•iews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and nol necessarily those of The Observer. 
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Right to Life Club's Interests Ignored 
In writing this letter, I am joining my voice to what has seemed to be the student body's prevail­ing mantra as we have debated and considered the anti-discrimination clause, the activities of the Progressive Student Alliance and the Student Senate's treatment of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Bight to Life Club: "Let's all just listen to each other!" Unfortunately, the inability to listen and the inability to thoroughly consider and respect each other's opinions still persists. 
I am mainly referring to Hyan Costantini's attempt to clarify what occurred at the Student Senate meeting when the Hight to Life Club was not allowed to share its views on the content of the let­ter welcoming Bill Bradley to Notre Dame. Costantini admits that "ignoring a group that rep­resents the view of the majority of Notre Dame stu­dents was never intended." The rest of his letter, however, describes exactly how and why the opinions of such a large percentage of Notre Dame students were in fact ignored. Whether the senate's refusal to listen was intended or not, it hap­pened. 
Costantini admitted that the Bradley letter was written to respond to thn actions of a Notre Damn alum­ni group who was responsible for flying ban­ners over the stadium denouncing Bradley. The Hight to Life Club has already disclaimed those activities. So, why would the Student Senate write a Jetter on behalf of all students to respond to the activi­ties of Notre Dame alumni'? And why, in responding on behalf of students, would the Senate refuse to listen to the voice of the student pro-life organization on campus? 
First of all, the Senate's refusal to listen was attributed to the Right to Life Club's ignorance of parliamentary procedure. Costantini mentioned that he had recommended that one of the Hight to Life Club's members speak during "podium." That student was me, and so I feel that I should clarify that Costantini also mentioned that the "question" period of the meeting would be open to our com­ments. This recommendation about speaking dur­ing the "question" period was echoed to us by the Student Body Vice-President. 
In response to Costantini's claim that the Academic Council was afraid that allowing the Right to Life Club to speak would have degenerated into debate about abortion that distractml from the "merits" ol' the Bradley letter is unfounded and, in fact, ridiculous. The only comment we wanted to make about abortion was that our opposition to it and our recognition of Bradley's role in promoting it made us concerned that the Bradley l1~tter did not represent us and our members. We weren't there to debate abortion, and those who silenced our comments for fear of the possible result were projecting onto us a goal that we did not have. 
Costantini also stated that the Academie Couneil wanted only to focus on "the letter and its merits," and so this explained the council's unwillingness to listen to us. Does that mean that the council was unwilling to listen to any opinion that did not rec­ognize "merits" in the letter? If the prindplns of debate arn basnd upon confining debate to a dis­
cussion of "merits," then debate would never accomplish anything, would it? That's exactly what hap­pened at the Student Senatn meeting on Sept. 30. Nothing was accomplished exnnpt the silenc­ing of a large pnrcentagn of the student body. 
Costantini's letter shows that no suf­11eient or logkal explanation can be o!Ternd for 
what occurrnd. In closing, I ask the Studnnt Senate to look at this 
lettnr not as an attempt to bn vin­dictive, but as a legiti­
mate and logical defense of the interests or the members of the Hight to Life Club and, in fart. the mem­bers of any other dub who may want 

to share their opinions with you in the futuro. Acknowledge the fact that I take you Sl~riously enough to be concerned by your respons11 to the comments of the club to which I belong. Hespeet the fact that there are students on this campus who believe so strongly in the beauty and the value of all human life that we take the time to attend your Senate meeting to defend that belief. Next time, let us defend it. 
Samantha Snyder Co-president, Notre Damc/Saim Mary's Right 10 Life Club October 13. 199R 
• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Vinck sComments on 
Homosexuals off the Mark 
I applaud Sean Vinck for his desire to engage in a discourse grounded in the notion that the truth shall set one free, yet l am dismayed that he could not ade­quately transfer his lofty ideals illto his own column (''Be not afraid, The Truth Will Set You Free," Oct. 13). 
A frank discussion about the position of gay and lesbian individuals on this campus is not furthered by Vinck's use of red herrings such as pedophilia and bostittlity. The mention ofsuch topics is designed to repulse, and by gratuitously linking homosexuality with them, Vinck reveals his true attitudes about the 'deviant' behavior of 'pushy' homosexuals. Gays and Lesbians are merely asking for what the rest of us take for granted: the abtl~ty to be hir~.tl and promoted on one's merits, to be graded on their capabilities, to 
·walk on campus without being taunted and to be treated as Individuals instead of a facelHss monolithic other. The duLac passage Vinck cites only prohibits the harassment of, not the diserimination against, gays and lesbians. Whether or not one agroes with the request that the mundane rights that heterosexu­als take for granted should be extended to homosexu­als, it is important to objectively ~~xamine Uw issues in a manner that Vinck's rhetoric does not. 
Su1.ann Gallagher Graduate Student October 13, 1998 


O THE 

--------------Wednesday, October 14, 1998
page 12 BSERVER 


Photo courtesy of Columbia Records 
I
nnovation in the world of music is not an easy process. You risk the possibility of losing the very essence of what made you popular. Even your most loyal fans may dismiss your new sound. Fortunately, it is when Cypress Hill directs their musical talent in a new direction that they are at their best. IV, the Los Angeles rap group's fourth LP, truly is their best effort to date at simultaneously maintain­ing their street credibility while continuing to diversify their music. 
IV is a dynamic effort by Cypress Hill. a welcome relief from the '95 release Temple of Boom, a dark attempt to return to the underground after their main­stream success. It is in fact their failure to provide any allegiance to a particular musical genre that allows them to forever be changing their sound. Subsequently. alternative and hip-hop lovers alike, on both the east coast and west, adore Cypress Hill members Muggs, 8-Real and Sen Dog. 
Despite its diverse fans, Cypress Hill does not attempt to conform to any group in particular. Rather, they stay true to their own background. Muggs is of several dif­ferent descents, including Hispanic and his Latino heritage on IV is stronger than on Cypress Hill's previous albums. Incorporating his Hispanic background proves to be very successful. "Tequila Sunrise" is the album's standout hit, masterfully blending Mexican rhythms with hard rap, similar to the identity of Muggs himself, both Mexican and American. 
As is no surprise to Cypress fans, the album remains true to the rappers' roots on Los Angeles' streets, containing the usual references to violence and guns, as in the angst filled song "Dead Men Tell No Tales." They refrain, however, from the typical gangster rap glorification of violence, choosing a more objective stance. "Looking Through The Eye Of A Pig," the album's first track, marks the genuine progression of Cypress Hill, depicting the world from the perspective of a police officer. While falling well short of praising the police, it does convey a sense of understanding of 
,.,.._...... Morissette Rob Zombie Less Than Jake Phish 
Nov.l 

despread Pani' Nov. 21 Dave Matthews Band De'~ 19..1di U-.it•d (egter Blues Traveler De,. 30-31 Aragon Ballroom 
1' ,,•.... ·....... i .•..··
~' ········.•
•TorRE. ok•·'··ME 
Third Eye Blind Nov. 11 Stepan Center Aerosmith Nov. 29 Joyce Center 
Cypress Hill 
IV 

Columbia Records 
**** (out of five) 
the frustrations and hardships of the profession. Instead of falling in the trap of angrily cursing the cops for their actions, it takes stops towards explaining why they tend to have certain prejudices. 
Muggs states through the eyes of a police officer that, "these days you can't tell who's who." When dealing with the most deplorable people of the city, everyone could be a criminal based solely on how they look. This generally gives IV a little more maturity than Cypress' previous albums. 
This is not to say that the entire mood of the album is complntely serious. Of course, Cypress's favorite habit, smoking marijuana, is still displayed throughout the album. and as usual, there are entire songs devoted to pot smoking ("Dr. Greenthumb," "High Times"). Unfortunately, while occasionally humorous, too much time fs spent by Cypress on the weed slang during these songs and as a result, the beats sound a little weak. 
But these few weak songs are drowned out by Muggs' dominating ability to pro­vide his characteristic squeals and sirens, making each song unique. The guitar squeals and the repetition of keyboard rhythms creates an eerie sense of paranoia that is uniquely Cypress Hill. Muggs and company are in a realm of creativity all their own, utilizing a continually developing array of original sounds that challenge all rappers to match Cypress Hill's own ingenuity. Thus, IV is a must for any Cypress fan or any other brave soul who wants to experience the beats of a true innovator in psychedelic rap. 
Mike Healy 

IWS 
Murat Theatre 
Clowes Hall 
Vogue Theatre 
World Mardi Gras 
Murat Theatre 
Murat Theatre 
Murat Theatre 
Murat Theatre 

Oct. 25 Agora Theatre (Cleveland) Nov:B Clutch Cargos (Pontiac) Nov. 12 Gund Arena (Cleveland) Nov..-13 St. Andrew's Hall (Detroit) Nov.14 Crown Theatre (Cincinnati) 
Dave Matthews Band .m ... Nov~ 21 Crown Theatre (Cincinnati) 
Cheap Trick Nov. 27·29 St. Andrew's Hall (Detroit) 



O THE

Wednesday, October 14, 1998 ------------------page 13
BSERVER 



Photo courtesy of Warner Bros. Records 
Soul Coughing 
El Oso 

Wan1er Bros. Records 
**** 1/2 (out of five) 
Y 
ou might not expect much as far as 
musical talent is concerned from a band 
who named themselvfls after a poem 
about Neil Young throwing up (written by lead singer, M. Doughty). Obviously, this is not the case with Soul Coughing. Their third album El Oso is, as always, different than anything else the band has released. 
Soul Coughing began in 1994. It was called Ruby Vroom, which produced such hit-college radio songs as "Is Chicago, Is Not Chicago" and "Down To This." Though this first album wasn't widely playfld, a few songs made it to MTV's 120 minutes. In 1996 came Irresistible Bliss, which threw them into mainstream with "Soundtrack to Mary" and "Super Bon Bon." Now, continuing their one releaso every two years policy, El Oso's here. 
As usual, the quartet of M. Doughty (vocals, gui­tar). Mark De Gli Antoni (keyboard, samples). Sebastian Steinberg (upright bass), and Yuval Gabay (drums and percussion), have kept their zany attitude in /.n Oso. After all. El Oso ("the bear" in Spanish). according to Doughty, came from an old Soul Coughing tradition to draw bears on the set list in order to calm Sebastian, who would pout until a bear was added. 
This album. though still zany, has a much dark­er asp1~et than Soul Coughing's first two. The song "IIouston" is about a friend of Doughty who fell prey to heroin. In "The Incumbent," Doughty expresses a sincere dislike for New York City, in an eerie, almost mysterious, tone. Then there's "Pensacola" which begins soft, with whisper-like lyrics, and ends with Doughty angrily screaming "Like waves in which you drown me, shouting." This, along with "I Miss The Girl" and "Circles" are perfect Doughty-style lost-love ballads. "Circles," the first single, was inspired by a recent breakup of which Doughty says, "The girl was confusing. So I said, <bleep> you girl, you are so confusing to me." 
But, don't get me wrong Soul Coughing hasn't left their silly, upbeat roots. "Holling" is a perfect example. With lyrics like ''I'm gonna slip into the field like llan Solo" and ''I'm gonna get into the batter so the mix might glow," you can't help but get up and dance. And then there's "So Far I Have Not Found The Science," which is really all that needs be said. 
Tho only near disappointment in this album is "Blame," whose lyrics get a lit tin too repetitive (it's only 3 lines long!) for a five minute song. The music, however, has an amazing jungle-likn danc11 quality, and stands as a perfect example of the long musical interlude whieh makes Soul Coughing a sight to see live. All I've got to say is if you've ever liked or thought about liking Soul Coughing, go buy this album! HI Oso is a perfect mixture. It's "what you call tripping on the boom bap etymological." 
Tim Donohue 
Catch Scene Reviewer Tim Donohue on Thursday afternoons from noon to 1:30 
.. 


W 
hen they first started in 1992, Less 
Than Jake was a simple three piece 
pop-punk band out of Gainesville, Fla. 
Little could they have imagined that in less than six years they would become one of the most popular ska bands around. Many non­sku fans have never heard of Less Than Jake; unlike Goldfinger, Reel Big Fish, or the Mighty Mighty Bosstones, Less Than Jake has yet to appear· on MTV or have a major radio hit. 
Instead the band has mtrned its frenzied follow­ing through non-stop touring and an incredible livn act. A LTJ live show is literally a frenzy with free things such as squirt guns, Frisbees, Pez dis­pnnsors and 1wen rncords and CD's being thrown into the crowd. A toliet paper gun and crowdsurli­ing in a real ra!'t are among other spectades. 
One of the most unique aspects of Less Than Jakfl is their DIY ethics whnn it comes to both making music and tn~ating tlwir fans WPII. When Less Than Jake lirst signnd with Capitol Hncords, many of their fans feared they would enter the "s1dl out" ranks of other popular sk bands. llowevnr, the band proved otherwise. 
Under their current eontraet, Less Than Jake is able to sot up their own tours and control tho prices for both their CD's and livtl shows (Capitol rilleases are $10.99 and concerts are under $10). But most importantly, L!lss Than Jake has stayed tnw to tho style of music that got them popular. 
1/ello /locklliew marks the bands 5th major release following l-osers Kings and Things We Don't Understand. Pezcore. l-osing Steak. and Greased. 1/e/lo Rock11ieu• is their second with Capitol Hocords. On the album. LTJ returns to tlwir old!lr sound by separating tho punk and ska aspncts ol' their songs, but tho album is great noJHlthlll!lSS. 
The album opens up with the fast-paced, upbeat "l.ast One Out Of Liberty City," and continues strong l'or tlw nnxt 14 songs. "All my Best Friends artl Mdalheads," "Danny Says" and "History of a Boring Town" are just a few of the brighter spots on the album. 
Also found on the album is a l'avoritP of many Less Than Jake fans. "Scott Farcas Takes It on th;l Chin." Bllsid!ls that. th!l album contains a hilari­ous :~0-seeond skit rn1·.orded at last years Ska Against Hadsm tour in St. Louis. The skit is Less Than Jakn singing a song about Cinco de Moustache, a holiday-inwntNI by tlw bands on tlw tour. 
<hw of tlw most unique and lwst things about Less Than Jake is their ability to write meaningful lyrics into upbeat ska songs. The song "All my Best Friends are Mctalhcads" praises individuali­ty, and "History of a Boring Town" is about the troubles of growing up. The album mixes these meaningful songs with some good old fashioned ska music such as, "Hiehard Allen George ... No its Just Cheez" and "IIelp Save the Youth of America From Exploding." 
On the whole, both /,osing .'-ltreak and Pezcore are better albums then 1/e//o Horkt•ieu•, hut we would definitely recommend the album to any Less Than Jake or punk ska fan. 
Seth Chisamore & ­Brian Kornmann 
You can hear Scene Reviewer Brian Kornmann on Thursday nights from midnight until 2 on WSND 88.9 FM. 

~·· 
"'.<!
'·'r 

page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, October 14, 1998 

• NATIONAL HocKEY lEAGUE 

Penguins declare bankruptcy 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH 
Double numbers are a Pittsburgh Penguins tradition: Mario Lemieux's 66, Paul Coffey's 77, Larry Murphy's 
55. So are these: Chapter 11. 
ThP last major pro sports team to file for bankruptcy protection, the Penguins did so again Tuesday as they battle four major lawsuits -one by Lemieux, the biggest star in their history. 
Penguins eo-owner Hoger Marino cited losses of $37.5 million over the last two sea­sons and an inability to negoti­ate a more favorable lease at the Civic Arena, which will soon be the NHL's oldest. 
Bankruptcy isn't unprece­

.. 
dented in the NIIL; the Penguins also filed in 1975 after the IHS padlocked team offices. But it is a public rela­tions black eye for the league during a potential showcase season that may be played without opposition from the labor-gridlocked NBA. 
Under NHL rules, the league can seize any insolvent fran­chise. 
But, citing the Penguins' recent progress in negotiations with Lemieux and TV rights holder Fox Sports, the NHL suggested that would be coun­terproductive. 
"While we are disappointed ... we have a commitment from ownership that the team will be adequately funded and we are optimistic this process will ultimately ensure that the franchise will be financially and competitively successful in Pittsburgh," NHL commission­er Gary Bettman said. 
Marino said the payroll will be met Thursday, a day after the Penguins' next game, and the filing will not affect their playing schedule. 
But the Penguins' myriad problems, including the Marino-Lemieux dispute over $33 million in deferred pay­ments agreed to by co-owner Howard Baldwin, are alienat­ing some of the NHL's most loyal fans. 

The Penguins, who have played to more than 90 per­cent capacity during the 1990s. have more than 2,000 unsold seats for Saturday's home opener against the New York Rangers. 
Sports agent Tom Reich, who represents Lemieux, said Marino now can pour fresh cash into the franchise without it going immediately to credi­tors. 
"Some may see this as a gloom-and-doom event, but it's not," Heich said. "The quality of the dialogue with the Penguins around the horn, not just with us but with every­body, is at a considerably high­er level than at any time since this started." 
On Friday, Lemieux settled 
'T"E PENGUINS SIMPLY CANNOT SURVIVE THE 
CURRENT CHOKE HOLD 
LEASE.' 
J. GARVIN WARDEN INTERIM CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
many of the outstanding issues in his suit, and Reich said, "Mario will get paid." 
The Penguins' financial problems accelerated after Baldwin, strapped for cash after the Penguins lost $25 million during the lockout­delayed 1994-95 season, signed unfavorable deals with Fox Sports and Spectator Management in exchange for up front money that kept the team in business. 
Now, Marino wants $4 mil­
lion a year in lease concessions 
from Spectacor and a better 
contract with Fox Sports. Fox 
is willing to negotiate, but, so 
far, Spectator isn't. 
"The Penguins simply cannot survive with the current choke hold lease," said interim chief executive officer J. Garvin Warden, a bankruptcy special­ist hired in August. 
Mayor Tom Murphy, who met Friday with Marino and Bettman, is upset that Marino shopped the Penguins to Houston, Kansas City, Oklahoma City and Las Vegas even as he insisted the team wouldn't move. 
Those trips prompted the city and Allegheny County to seek a court order barring any dis­cussions about relocating the team before its lease expires in 2007. That lease was extended only last year, after Baldwin agreed to $12 million in Civic Arena improvements instead of lobbying for a new arena. 
Marino, who has criticized Baldwin for not including the Penguins in the plan to build new stadiums for the Pirates and Steelers, was aware of the Penguins' financial plight when he bought into the team in early 1991, Murphy said. 
"My opinion about Mr. Marino is he should have done the due diligence. If he didn't, shame on him," Murphy said. "We've known for years it would come to a situation where the team was undercap­italized. This is about sober people negotiating deals for the short term rather than the long term." 
Baldwin. a movie producer who lacks Marino's deep pock­ets, and Marino have feuded for months, but issued a state­ment Tuesday pledging to work together. Marino may ultimately emerge as the majority owner. 
The Penguins' first bank­ruptcy filing 23 years ago came after former owners Tad Potter and Peter Block couldn't pay $6.5 million in debt, including $500,000 owed in federal taxes. The IHS imposed a lien and seized its assets, prompting the Chapter 11 fil­ing, and the team was later sold. 
Former Los Angeles Kings owner Bruce McNall was forced to sell the team in 1994 after landing in bankruptcy court and, later, going to prison. 

• NAtiONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE 
Favre preps to i~mprove game 
Associated Press 

GREEN BAY, Wjs. 
If Brett Favre always fol­lowed his impulses away from the stadium the way he does on the football field, the Green Bay Packers would be prepar, ing Rick Mirer to be their starting quarterback. 
Favre. was in a big-time funk followingone of the worst per­formances of his career against Minnesota last week. 
"I was very frustrated," Favre said. "f told my wife that I thought about retiring after the game~ .That's how bad it hurts. Af'te.r the Super Bowl, I thought about retiring, too. 
"You go out and practice as hard as you can, you prepare mentally and then all of a sud­den you don't play the way you want to. Yeah, we're all human. But I don't accept that. That's what's so frustrat­ing." 
Fortunittely for the Packers. Favre's no Kerry Collins, who quit on the Carolina Panthers last week. 
Favre just couldn't stomach his 13-for-23 night that netted 114 yards, no touchdowns and three interceptions in Green Bay's 37-24 loss to the Vikings. 
"J had guys open and I missed them and I made some throws I wish I had back," Favre said. "It's hard to sleep at night. When you don't have a game the next week, it makes it even tougher, because I'm ready to go play right away. After that game, alll wanted to do was go climb in a sMll and hide.'' 
But with some soothing words from his wife, Deanna, Favre was raring to go again. 
"She knows I'm not going to retire," said Favre, who turned 29 Saturday. "But she's great. She consoles me and says, 'Hey, · happens.' Everyone need ~ulder to cry on ev 'n a while and·rm 
than anyone else:'' 
Actually, Favre is different. He's the best in the business. That's what makes subpar games so hard for him to han­dle. 
For the 11rst time with the Packers, Favre, who's thrown six interceptions in his last two games, didn't leave town dur­ing the bye week for some golf and fishing back home in Mississippi. 
"I just kind of laid around and hung out and waited to start back," Favre said. "I think everyone kind of felt that way. The next game couldn't get here soon enough." 
That game is Thursday night in Detroit, where Favre will be asked to avenge last week's poor performance at the site of his ugliest game in 1997, the Pontiac Silverdome, where he's thrown 12 TD passes and 14 interceptions. 
Last season, Favre had a miserable day at the Silverdome in a 26-15 loss to the Lions, throwing three interceptions, including one from his knees that linebacker Reggie Brown returned for a score. 
But the Packers are confi­dent Favre will make amends both for that poor perfor­mance and for last week's. 
"Quarterbacks all go through periods where things just don't go right," offensive coordina­tor Sherm Lewis said. "We'd like to see fewer interceptions, don't get me wrong. But he's the best." 
Part of Favre's troubles is 
he's pressing with Pro Bowl 
halfback Dorsey Levens side­
lined. Coach Mike Holmgren 
suggested maybe he's accept­
ing more responsibility than 
even his enormous talent can 
handle. 
"Well, I always try to do too much," Favre said. "This is just my own opinion, but I think every player who plays this game should look at it the way I do -if I don't do too much, who will?" 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
.___N_o_T_Ic_E_s_  __.ll LOST & FOUND I  STUDEBAGELS hopes that you have a great fall break. We are looking for some· one to work at our Campus Shoppes loca·  PHONECARDSI$20 BUYS MINS. USA 282, CANADA 237,  Need 2 Baylor GAs . Please call212-636·7472.  TURNER'S HOLIDAY BAZAAR  
lion. Will work with your schedule. 1801  HONG KONG 100,1RELAND 155,  THE OBSERVER will not be published  SATURDAY.OCTOBER24  
THE COPY SHOP  Lost last Spring:  South Bend Ave-Please apply in per·  FRANCE 135, GERMANY 135,  during fall break so if you have Army tix to  8:30.2:30  
LaFortune Student Center  Pentex Super Program 35mm Camera w/  son.  MEXICO 94. PUERTO RICO 237.  sell. put your classified ad in before Friday.  
We're Open A Lot!!!  Vivatar flash, gray case. Call Susan 255·  UNITED KINGDOM 315.  Oct.16.  
Mon· Thur: 7:30 am • Midnight  2369  FEMALE MODELS Wanted for undergrad  For orders/ info, call  Annie in Austria!!!!!!!!  
Fri: 7:30am • 7:00pm  photo project. Diverse ages and races  616·684·3339  Need 2 Baylor GAs ASAP  We miss you! Have fun!!!!  
Sat: Noon • 6:00 pm  Lost· Brown, leather. Wilson  wanted. If interested contact Amanda  Top Dollar  
....  Sun: Noon • Midnight When you need copies, we're open! Early Spring Break SpecialsiBahamas Party Cruise!6 Days $27911ncludes most  football w/ Alabama High School insignia on the side­, last seen friday 8/9 on or near McGlinn fields· has special sentimental value-if found please call Chris at4·1817  @x3199. I TICKETS FOR RENT I I NEED GATIXSALLHOMEI':-·~..,...,.=,.,.,,.,.,=,...,..,::-:-::;"""'.,.,..---l. GAMES.272·6306 1,2,3,4,5 BDRM HOMES. NEAR CAM·  631.6750 2 Baylor GA's for sale. call Henry at 634-3520. Please leave message.  Top Ten Ways to Become a Keough 3B Gtrl 10) Brownies 9) Deny ownership of master floor key 8) Keep James holy  
meals! Awesome  PUS. AVAIL. NOW  TICKETMART Inc  1 ARMY GA for sale. best offer. Call Aimee  7) Honesty  
Beaches.NightlifeiDeparts From FloridaiCancun & Jamaica Air,Hotei.Meals  ......... Losr········  GILLIS PROPERTIES.272·6551  BUY·SELL·TRADE Notre Dame Football Tickets  1825.  6) Create a soap opera 5) Dance lessons w/ Noonan  
&Parties $339!Panama City Room With  3 COM PALM Ill electronic  That Pretty Place. Bed and Breakfast Inn  258·1111  1 Baylor GA for sale  4) Homemade army cadences  
Kitchen.7 Free Parties $1291Daytona  organizer  has space available for football/parent  No student tickets please  leave offer 4x 1 067  3) Mac & chili on "rock or something"  
Room With Kitchen $149!springbreaktrav·  Lost on Friday October 9. at aprox. 7:00pm  wknds.5 Rooms with private baths.$80·  2) The Grand Tour  
el.com  If found please call Carl  $115.Middlebury,30 miles from  Need 3 Aerosmith Tix  1) 3 words-smart, funny, cute  
1·800·678·6386  @273·2530 (no ?'s asked)  campus.Toll Road,Exit #107.1·800·418·  FOR SALE  Call Pete @ 4·0973  If all else fails. buy a Nintendo 64 ...But you  
'""'""'REWARD"""  9487.  FOOTBALL TICKETS  shouldn't worry about your 38 status-we  
Welcome Freshman  271·9412  For Sale: 1 GA Army. Call Jim  hear Brendan/a is looking for a new queen!  
··~  Michael Edwards! $6.00 Haircuts  WANTED  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO  WANTED  @4-1169.  
Vito's Barbershop  CAMPUS. 243·0658.  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS  2 GAs to Army & Baylor  SABOR LATINO  
1523 Lincolnway West  ADOPTION IS LOVE  271-1526  For Sale: 243·2770  
Closed Wed. & Sun.  Happily married ND Alumni couple. with  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY info:  Thursday Oct. 15  
233-4767  adopted 3 year old daughter. wants to  http:/!Business.michiana.org/bnbreg  ND Ftbl. tix  1 ARMY GA FOR SALE  Club Landing  
shower a new baby with love.Artistic full·  219·291·7153.  BUY·SELL  X 2093  10pm·1am  
PARENTS-STUDENTS-ALUMNI  time mom,athletic lawyer dad, and a sister  674-7645  (dance lessons 8:30 pm)  
Own a piece of ND history  to play with.Friends on the swingset,trips to  BED & BREAKFAST: Home away from  Need 4 Army GA's. Call Pat @ 4·0680  Salsa & Merengue all night!  
Attend the LARGEST ND COLLECTIBLE  the zoo.grandma. play  home! 2 miles from campus. Queen beds,  ND Footbaii·Buy·Seii.Seasonal and  
SALE & AUCTION  groups.lullabies.too.This is a home where  1 room w/ twins. Private baths. 272·9471.  Individual Game Tickets. GA-only  NEED ARMY TICKETS?  SABOR LATINO  
FRIDAY. OCT. 23. 1998  wishes come true.We'd like to call to get to  674·7645  I HAVE 6 TOGETHER'  
1tamto11pm LOGAN CENTER  know you.Call Shawn & Meg 800-767· 4257.LegaVMedicaVAIIowable exp. paid.  FOR SALE  ND Football Tickets Needed.  CALL NICK 4·2313  i wish i could live up to the Keough 3B  
Eddy & Angela  AM 232·2378 PM 288·2726  NEED LSU TIX  standards.  
Info call219-257·0039  SPRING BREAK '99  PREPAID PHONE CARDS  Call Matt 287·5179  
1000 RARE ITEMS FROM ROCKNE.  Sign up early and get the following  198 MIN. $20  ND FOOTBALL TIX  london. london. london. i don't want to  
HUNK. LEAHY, PARSEGHIAN.etc.  FREE:$30.00 off package.14 FREE Meals.  CALL 258·4805  FOR SALE  4 Sale • 1 Army GA. Best offer. Must sell  thionk about it.  
Portion of Proceeds Benefit the Parseghian  and 20 Hours of FREE Parties.Call College  AM 232·2378  by Friday.  
Medical Foundation  Tours FREE at (800)395-4896 or surf the  FOR SALE. LIVE PH ISH CDS!  PM 288·2726  Chad -271·9341  HEY I go see And They Dance Real Slow  
web:www.collegetours.com  Bed box set. not available in  in Jackson.  
Looking for attractive women w/ good pro· motional skills to promote  U.S. call pete at251·0178.  Always buying and selling N D football tick· ets. 289·8048  PERSONAL  TONIGHT AND TOMORROW, 7 p.m., Washington Hall Lab Theater.  
Jagermeister.Must be 21 & have trans­ ND MOM NEEDS 5 ARMY GA'S-PLEASE  ODYSSEY OF THE MIND  my roommate worked very hard for that  
portation. Call 1-BOQ.TO-JAGER  CALL 1·800·235·5568 x2242  Interested? Call Aubree  play.  
@ 4·3873 before fall break  

--~--------~--------------------------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, October 14, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• BOXING 

Medical panel: Tyson suffers from low self-esteem 

Associ;ucd Press 
LAS VEGAS 
Mikn Tyson was nxtr·emoly dnprnssn;l at the timn hn bi't l·:vandnr llolyfildd's nars and is unlikely to commit such an aet again, a medical panel says in a rnport that linds he is "lit" to rr.turn to the ring. 

Tyson said l11-1 was fneling betrayed by "people I would 
have died for" leading up to the June 1997 title fight against llolylield, according to the psychiatric report released today by the state attorney general's office. 
I lt\IITI=n II~Al1
-.. ------.. ---......... ­
';ii.;' i ";ii ii ii ...-....r-...iii 'i ii "-" Your Airport Connection, O'Hare & Midway, All Day ... Every Day 
CORRECTION 
Current Schedule 

Leave Notre Arrive O'Hare Arrive Midway Dame Domestic .j] Airport Main Gate Terminals 1 ,2 & 3 Via Tri State 
Coach Transfer 
3:05AM 4:05AM 5:05AM 7:05AM 9:05AM 
10:05 AM 
11:05 AM 1:05PM 3:05PM 5:05PM 6:05AM 7:20AM 8:20AM 
10:05 AM 
12:05 PM 1:05PM 2:05PM 4:05PM 6:05PM 8:05PM 6:30AM 7:30AM 8:30AM 
10:30 AM 
12:30 PM 1:30PM 2:30PM 4:30PM 6:30PM 8:30PM 

• Watch for a schedule change October 25th• 
2nd Annual 

The report, by a team of doctors who examined the for­mer heavyweight champion last month, portrays him as lacking in self-esteem and depressed to the point that he 
took antidepressant drugs in 
the months following tho 
llolyfield fight. 
The report was ordf1red by 
the Nevada Athlf1tic 
Commission as a rf1quirement 
for Tyson in his attempt to 
regain his license, which he 
lost for biting Holyfield. The 
commission meets Monday to 
consider the request. 
The report says Tyson has a 
"constellation of neurobehav­
ioral deficits" that include 
problems with attention span, 
memory, reading, spelling and 
impulse control." 
One doctor speculated that 
Tyson, who said he never lost 
consciousness in the ring but 
did several times after beat­
ings as a child, may have 
residual attention-deficit dis­
order. 
Tyson told the doctors he 
was not suicidal but has had 
feelings of sadness, hopeless­
ness and helplessness "all my 
life." 
He was alternately engaging and hostile during the five days of exams. Two of the doctors treating him said he snapped in anger at them in separate instances, expressing a "wish" to harm one of them at one point. 
"It was this evaluator's clin­ical impression that this inci­dent did not reflect Mr. Tyson's intent to intimidate but rather that it was an expression of a fantasy in reaction to the frustration of this evaluation," Dr. Jeremy Schmahmann wrote. 
The report did not say whom Tyson was angry at before the Holyfield fight, but he later had a bitter split with promoter Don King and his managers, John Horne and Bory Holloway, daiming they stole millions of dollars from him. 
The team of six doctors. which examined Tyson at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, found that he was fit to fight again and not likely to bite another opponent. 
The report says Tyson felt embarrassed and humiliated by having to undergo five days of testing and was concerned that people would think lw was "psycho." 
"I have no self-esteem. but the biggest ego in the world," Tyson said. 
The report recommends that Tyson undergo psychotherapy and that his problems with depression and self-esteem can be treated without any further medication. The report said he had been tak­ing the antidepn~ssants after the Holyfield fight and for the last month. but stopped because it made him losn his urge to light. 
It concludes by saying then• is no way to predict future behavio.r, but the doctor·s believn Tyson is fit to box again. 
"It is the opinion of thn eval­uation team that Mr. Tyson is mentally fit to return to box­ing, to comply with the rules and regulations, and to do so without repetition of .June 2S, 1997," the report said. 
"While we take note of tlw impulsivity, emotional prob­lems and cognitive problmns outlined above, it is our opin­ion that none of these, alone or in combination, rendnr Mr. Tyson ~nntally unfit in this regard. n 

The doctors included a neu­,. ropsychologist, psychiatrist, clinical psychologist, two neu­rologists and a doctor-lawy11r. 
The commission will ment Monday to determine whether to relicense Tyson. If Tyson is denied a license, he will have to wait another year to be able to return to the ring. 
Tyson and his wife, Monica, had fought to keep the report private, arguing that only members of the commission needed to know the state of the inner workings of the for­mer champion's mind. 
But after a state Supreme Court ruling Monday that favored the release of the reports, he signed a waiver agrneing to make them public. 
The report offers some tid­bits about Tyson's life, includ­ing the fact that he told doc­tors he drank alcohol four days before thn tests. Tyson had problems with drinking in his younger days, but convert­ed to Islam in prison and had said he did not drink any longer. 
Tyson issued a statenwnt saying hf1 didn't want to release the reports but that his main goal is gntting back into the ring. 
"On numerous occasions I have apologized for my actions in thP ring vs. EvandPr llolyf'inld," Tyson said. "I am willing to do whatever tlw Nevada Athletic Commission wants mP to do in order t.o rngain my licrnsp to fight." 
Thr commissiorwrs asked for the psychiatric rnport aftpr a si x -ho u r l ic P n s i ng lw a ri n g 

-
dncided nothing last month. 
At issue at Monday's !waring will not only be Tyson's psy­l'.hological n~cords, but ques­tions about a fight aft11r a fender-bender he was involved in on Aug. 3 I. 
"It will be a vnry internsting hearing," prndietnd Marc Hatner, the eommission's executive director. 


-
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, October 14, 1998 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 

Hitchcock called to take turn on mound in Game 6 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 
Now it's Sterling Hitchcock's turn to pitch on three days' rest. 
With San Diego ace Kevin Brown throwing 41 pitches in a surprise -and losing ­relief appearance against Atlanta in the NL champi­onship series Monday night, the Padres will move up the left-handed Hitchcock to start against the Atlanta Braves in Game 6 on Wednesday. 
The Padres, who will have slugger Greg Vaughn back on Wednesday, didn't get any argument from Brown. 
"He's fine with this," manag­er Bruce Bochy said Tuesday evening after the Padres' vol­untary workout at Turner Field. "He was ready to go either way." 
With San Diego leading 4-2 and wanting to close out the Braves at home, Bochy brought on Brown with a man on and none out in the seventh inning Monday night. 
Brown retired the side, but wasn't nearly as sharp in the eighth. With the Padres just five outs away from the World Series, he allowed Michael Tucker's go-ahead, three-run homer as the Braves staged an incredible rally to win 7-6. 
San Diogo leads the series 3­
2. No team has rallied all the way back from a 3-0 postsea­son deficit; the Braves are the first team in that situation to force a sixth game. 
Brown beat the Braves 3-0 with a three-hitter in Game 2, and would start Game 7 Thursday night if the Padres lose to tho Braves and Tom Glavine Wednesday. 
The Braves' Game 7 starter would be Greg Maddux, who also made a surprise relief appearance Monday and ended up with his first career save. 

Hitchcock boat Maddux and the Braves on Saturday at San Diego, allowing one run on three hits in five innings. 
He also started tho go-ahead !il'th-inning rally with a single off Maddux. 
"To me, probably on the out­side things are a little bit more crucial than they are in our clubhouse," pitching coach Dave Stewart said. 
"And in our clubhouse, one, we feel we have a good shot tomorrow with Sterling, as we did starting Game 1 with Ash 
' IT'S THE TIME OF YEAR WHEN SOMETIMES YOU 
HAVE TO MOVE UP A DAY.' 
BRUCE BOCHY 
PADRES' GENERAL MANAGER 
[Andy Ashby]. and two, if things don't happen in our favor tomorrow, then we still got Brownie for the final game. Rested. 
"We'll go out, take our best shot tomorrow with Hitch and whatever comes with that, we'll take it, and if we have to come back for another ball­game, then we'll do that." 
Hitchcock wasn't available 
for comment Tuesday, but he 
came up to Stewart in the 
dugout Monday night and told 
him he wanted the ball for 
Game 6. 

"That was very helpful in 
making the decision easier to 
go with him," Stewart said. 
"But I think more than any­
thing, Brownie's been big for 
• NATIONAL FOOTBAll lEAGUE 
Chargers release Gilbride as coach 
-
Associated Press San Diego job. Leaf has just one TO pass and has turned SAN DIEGO over the ball 15 times. The San Diego Chargers Before becoming coach of fired coach Kevin Gilbride the Chargers, Gilbride was 
today following the NFL probably best known for a team's fourth straight loss sideline fight in a nationally and replaced him with of'fen­televised game with defensive sive coordinator June Jones, coordinator Buddy Ryan. who will be interim coach. Jones, 45, was head coach 
The 47-at Atlanta year-old from 1994-96, Gilbride was going 19-30. in his second Both Gilbride season after and Jones being signed began their
'WEWERE PLAYING 
to a 5-year careers as
FOR OURSELVES, 
contract and proponents of had a record NOT TO SAVE HIS JOB.' the run-and­of6-16. With shoot offense, rookie Ryan although San 
Leaf at quar­WILUAM FULLER Diego lately terback, the CHARGERS DEFENSIVE END has been Chargers using a more won their conventional 
first two system. games, but Defensive then lost end William four straight as Leaf was Fuller welcomed the change. benched during two of the "We were playing for our­losses. selves, not to save his job," 
The Chargers scored just 22 Fuller told XTRA Radio in San 
-touchdowns in 22 games Diego. "Too many players under Gilbride, an offensive were falling asleep at meet­coordinator in Houston and ings and nothing was being Jacksonville before taking the done about it." 

us this year. We've used him a lot, he's thrown a lot of innings." 
After Brown struck out 16 in winning the division series opener against Houston, ho came back on three days' rest and wasn't as effective, but he held the Astros to one earned run in 6 2-3 innings and the Padres got a strong effort from relievers Dan Miceli and Trevor Hoffman to win. 
Hitchcock, who was 9-7 with a 3.93 ERA in the regular sea­son, hasn't pitched on three days' rest this year. 
l-Ie's done it four times in his career, going 0-2 with an 
8.41 ERA. He threw 93 pitches on Saturday. 
"It's the time of year when sometimes you have to move up a day," Bochy said. 
Including Saturday's game and a start here in May, Hitchcock has allowed the Braves only seven hits and one earned run in 10 1-3 innings. 
Vaughn, meanwhile, is scheduled to start in left field Wednesday. 
He strained his left quadri­ceps when he slipped on the wet grass in Game 1. He pinch-hit in the ninth Monday night, striking out on three pitches from Maddux. 
"I have a tough act to follow, don't !?" Vaughn said, allud­ing to the big plays made by his replacements, John Vander Wal and Ruben Rivera. 
Vander Wal, acquired because he hits Braves pitch­ing so well, hit a two-run homer off John Smoltz to put the Padres up 4-2 Monday night. Rivera scored a key run in the 3-2, 10-inning win in the first game. 
"It's going to feel good for me to get back out there," said Vaughn, who hit 50 homers this year. 
Are you looking for a 
job that gives you 
valuable 
design experience 
vvhile offering 
reat a ? 
Apply for Assistant Ad Design Manager for The Observer Ad Design Office 
Required experience: Extensive knowledge of Quark Express, Photoshop, and Illustrator applications. 
Extensive application is not necessary. Just call Brett Huelat at 1-6900 and leave your name and number or drop off a description of your design experience at the Observer office in the basement of South Dining Hall. Sophomore or Junior preferred. 




Wednesday, October 14, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 17 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 
Yankees conquer Indians, en route to World Series 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK 

Hevenge complete. The Anwriran League pennant is baek in the Bronx. 
Yankee Stadium rocked long and hard Tuesday night, as New York readwd the World Seri«~S for a n~eonl :~5th time by hcating thn Cleveland 
Indians  1J-5  to  win  t lw  AI.  
championship series in  six  
ganws.  

And wlwn it was over, tho l'i r s t thing on IIH~ Yankn n s' minds was Darryl Strawbnrry, their teammat«~ who under­WPnl «~ancer surgcry Oct. 3. Seronds al'tPr tlw final out. his pictun~ WPilt up on the scorn-
board behind the right-field bleachers. 
"Darryl. this is yours. You pushed us," manager Joe Torre said. "I know you're going to be all right." 
Scott Brosius semned to lin­ish Cleveland off with a three­run homer for a 6-0 lead in the third inning. But David Cone rwarly gave it all baek, allow­ing a grand slam to .lim Thome that pulled tlw Indians within a run. 
Den~k .Jeter then restored the safety margin with a two-run triple in the sixth, a drive to right that Manny Hamirez tried to snag with a leap at the top of the wall -only the ball landed on a hop at his feet. 
1978. 
"It was something we fought hard all year for -these guys are wonderful," said David Wells, who went 2-0 and was voted ALCS MVP. "This is for you, Darryl." 
Cleveland, which beat the Yankees in the lirst round last year and came within two outs of winning its lirst World Series since 1948, failed to foree a seventh game because it allowed live unearned runs. 
"Absolutely disappointed that we didn't go on," Indians man­ager Mike Ilargrovn said, "but we have to recognize thn Yankees have a very good ball­club and they played better than we did." 
The game ineluded another 
controversial umpiring call, a 
line drive that hit an umpire on 
the backside and a pumped-up 
crowd that took every opportu­
nity to make up for the taunts 
Wells endured in Clevnland last 
week. 
After going 114-4S during 
the regular season and sweep­
ing Texas in the first round, 
the Yankcns fell. pr·nssurn to 
reach thn Serins. which thny 
won in 199(>. 
"It's only fun wlwn you win." 
Yankens oulfieldnr Paul O'Neill 
said. 
Cleveland felt pressurn, too, 
after losing Gamn 7 of tho 
World Serins to Florida last 
October. But al'tnr falling 
behind two games to one, New 
York turnnd it around at 
Jacobs Field behind strong 
pitching from Orlando "EI 
Duque" Hernandez in Ganw 4 
and Wells in Gamn 5. 
By the eighth inning, fans 
were taunting the Indians with 
ehants of "1948." Hesponding 
to a remark by Clevnland's 
David .Justice that thn only way 
Yanknes fans could g«~t tougher 
would be if' they brought Uzis 
to the ballpark, one fan hung 
pictures of a machinn gun from 
the upper deck for nach strike­
out by Con11, who fanned Pight. 
"I try to gel the guys lirnd up 
any way I can," Wells said. 
"Sometimes, it's not the right 
way." 
Forgotten with the win was 
Chuck Knoblauch's blunder in 
Game 2, which allowed 
Cleveland to blunt New York's 
momentum. 
"What a great team we've 
got," Knoblauch said. "They 
gave me a lot of support when I 
was down. w(~ don't havn to 
worry about that now." 
Umpires again wnre in the center of controvnrsy. Ted Hendry, the second-base umpire, appnared to blow a call in the third inning, ruling New York's Chili Davis safe on a force play, elaiming Omar Vizquel was pulled ofT the base by the throw. Two outs later, Brosius' homer madn it (>-0. 
Brosius' homnr came aft«1r 
Williams' leadoff single and the 
controversial call by llendry. 
Davis grounded to second and 
Enrique Wilson's throw to sec­
ond for the force was widn to 
the shortstop side. Whiln 
Vizqtwl appeared to knep a 

-
foot on the bag, Ilendry called 
Davis safe. 
Cleveland starter Charlns 
Nagy, who took the loss. quick­
ly got in trouble, and ChwPiand 
fell behind on consecutive orw­
out singles in the first by Jntnr, 
O'Neill and Williams. Davis fol­
lowed with a saerilicn fly. 
New York made it 3-0 in tlw second on an nrror by lnl't field­er Brian Gilns. Jon Girardi sin­gled with one out, Knoblauch doubled into the lert-linld eor­ner and (;iles, al'tnr picking up the ball, lot it fall out of his glove. 
Con«' took a shutout into tlw fifth. Aft«lr singl!~s hy Wilson and Kenny Lorton put runners on first and third. Vizqunl hit a liner up the middln that hit Hendry in thn mar end. Lofton remained on third instead of scoring and a walk to .Justirc forced in a run. 

After fanning Hamirnz, Corw --­gave up the grand slam to Thome. who set an AI. champi­onship series reeord with his fourth honwr. 
Hamiro Mendoza camn in to start the sixth and allownd a hit in thrne shutout innings. Mariano Bivnra finished with a 1-2-3 ninth. 

New York, which opens the World Series at home Saturday 
'IT WAS SOMETHING WE 
FOUGHT HARD ALL YEAR 
FOR -THESE GUYS ARE 
WONDERFUL.' 
DAVID WELLS' 
YANKEES' PITCHER 

night against Atlanta or San Diego, won an AI. title at homn for the first time since the Reggie Jackson-Thurman Munson-Bon Guidry team in 


page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, October 14, 1998 

• NATIONAl BAsKETBALl AssociATION 
NBA cancels 99 season games 
Associated Press out the World Series, the NHL uted to went through a 2 1/2-month low-revenue teams, much NEW YORK lockout that ended in January like the system baseball own­The NBA's perfect record is 1995, and an NFL strike in ers have adopted. dead. 1987 lasted less than a month. "I think we definitely sur­
The league canceled regular­Two previous NBA lockouts prised them," union director season games because of a in 1995 and 1996 ended Billy Hunter said. "Our inten­work stoppage for the first before any games were tion was to put something bold time in its history Tuesday missed. on the table. when collective bargaining The next move in this dis­"The message here is that talks between owners and pute will come from the own­we're trying. What kind of players broke off after about 3 ers, who will deliver a coun­response they make will deter­1/2 hours. terproposal later this week. mine what kind of progress we 
"Lousy, disappointed," com­Tuesday was the 105th day of can make and whether we can missioner David Stern said the lockout. salvage the rest of the when asked to describe his "It doesn't look promising," November schedule -or the feelings. "My job is to put on Stern said. "The reality is that rest of the season," Hunter games for the fans, not to can­the owners had no choice. The said. cel them. It's terribly disap­union indicated some flexibili­Stern said the idea of a tax pointing." ty, but the reality is that their was something the owners 
A total of 99 games from proposal doesn't completely would look at, but by itself it Nov. 3 through Nov. 16 will address what we've focused was not enough to stop the not be played or made up, and on." league from canceling games. the vast majority of players The sides met for two ses-"We had a somewhat more will miss their first paychecks constructive dialogue, but it's Nov. 15. hard to say if we got closer to
' IT'S EVIDENT WE'RE NOT
The union came to the table an agreemept," Granik said.
GOING TO REACH A

Tuesday with an 11th-hour "We promised to come back proposal-a luxury tax on play­DECISION SOON, SO WE ARE wit~ our own set of propos­ers re-signing under the so­als.
RELUCTANTLY CANCELLING

called Larry Bird exception -The owners imposed the to address the owners' con­THE FlRST TWO WEEKS.' lockout July 1, and the sum­cern over rapidly escalating mer and early fall passed with 
salaries, but it wasn't enough the sides meeting only twice
Russ GRANIK
to save the full 82-game sea­for formal bargaining sessions. son. NBA DEPUTY COMMISSIONER The talks Tuesday were the 
"It's evident we're not going third between the sides. to reach an agreement any sions, one in the morning Patrick Ewing, Dikembe time soon, so we are reluctant­when the union made its pro­Mutombo, Ray Allen, Antonio ly canceling the first two posal and one in the afternoon Davis and John Starks were weeks," a dour-faced deputy after the owners discussed it. among the players who attend­commissioner Russ Granik The union's luxury tax pro­ed the meeting. The owners said from a podium at a mid­posal would require owners to were represented by Gordon town Manhattan hotel. pay a tax on certain exorbitant Gund (Cleveland). Les 
Sitting beside him was Stern, contracts such as the $126 Alexander (Houston). Abe who was looking equally glum million, six-year extension Pollin (Washington) David as the NBA's 51-year history of signed by Kevin Garnett of the Checketts (New York) and playing uninterrupted seasons Minnesota Timberwolves last Jerry Colangelo (Phoenix). -35,001 consecutive games -year when he was just 20. Both sides are still awaiting came to an end. The exact threshold numbers a decision from arbitrator 
The NBA had been the only and percentages were not dis­John Feerick, dean of major American professional closed, but union lawyers said Fordham Law School, who will sport that had never lost a the Garnett contract would rule by Sunday whether more game due to a labor dispute. have triggered the tax. than 200 players with guaran­
Baseball had a disastrous Money collected from the teed contracts must be paidstrike in 1994-95 that wiped luxury tax would be redistrib-during the lockout. 
• NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE 
Detroit revists Washington 
Associated Pre$S Toronto." One missing element from the WASIUNGTON Detroit perspective will be 
Four months ago, the Detroit coach Scotty Bowman, who is Red Wings helped former team­recuperating from knee mate Vladimir Konstantinov surgery. Assistants Barry Smith 
onto the ice in his wheelchair to and Dave Lewis are co-coach­
partl,de the Stanley Cup around ing in the interim. 
the>MCI Center. "It's always more for the l't':l-night, just two games into team that got beat," Smith said. the schedule, they return for "The revenge factor is reallythe only regular season meeting huge. They will be really juiced with the Washington Capitals, up to play us because we beat 
las~ year's other finalist. them in their own building." 
~there'll be a lot of memo­the game does indeed mean ries, a lot of looking around," more for the Capitals. who still Red Wings goalie Chris Osgood aren't considered among the said. "I think it'll be a lot of NHL elite after a playoff run in fun~" which they didn't have to play a With expansion and realign­higher seeded team to win themeitt: the NHL has gone to a Ea.'ltern Conference title. While n~w schedule in which some goalie Olaf Kolzig cautioned Eastern and Western confer­about the team needing to paceenceteams play each other only itself to avoid burnout and not once instead of twice. "play every game like it's the 
. 'fhat means ifthe Capitals are seventh game of the finals," he gomg to get some quick pay­also sees an opportunity to back for last season's sweep, move up a notch in the respect they'd better do it now. sweepstakes.
"It's one game that every­"We'd like to send a messagebody's going to be watching," to the league that we're for Washington forward Joe real," Kolzig said. "It's a goodJuneau said. "Everybody's test. We want to get back to the 
putting emphasis on it because finals and do mote damageifs the two finalists from last than we did last year." year's Stanley Cup playoffs. But Finally, the matchup has 
it'sthe only game we're going made it easier for coach Wilson to play against them this year. to keep his team from gettingIf we.face them again, it's going the October blahs. to be in the fmals. We want to "Playing good teams early in 
face them again.~ the season will get us focused 
The teams have actually met early on,.. Wilson said. "It's once already, an exhibition ironic -Anaheim, my former gaine last week in Detroit that team, then Detroit. Who put was won 4-3 by Washington. that together?" 
"It will mean more than it did Konstantinov and a team last week," coach Ron Wilson masseur were seriously injured said. "But we proved then that in 1996 when their limo we could beat a Detroit team crashed after a celebration for 
wi,th. its full lineup .... The thing the Red Wings' Stanley Cup vic­thatstinks is that the Wings lost tory.[their season opener] · in 
Wednesday, October 14, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
• WAY OUT IN lEFT FIElD • COllEGE BASKETBAll 
"Bird rule" called into question Purdue finds no fault 

By JOHN COPPOLELLA became a realistic possibility teed to play one another. 
with basketball program 
SporrsWrirer when Bird and the Celtics peti­i\.11 of this could mean disaster 
tioned the league and received for the NBA. 
permission to exceed the cap so If all these sports continue Associated Press official recruiting period that 
i\s a lil'nlong Los i\ngeles long as that it is to resign a their success, the NBA strike began in November 1996. Lakers fan. I hated Larry Bird player from their own team. and the NBA itself will be some­WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. The University's response hncausn his talent. desire to win Ironically. this new rule never thing of an afterthought. It will Purdue University officials was delayed four times by thn and sun~ess on the court cost really eausnd problems until undoubtedly lose fans and, as said Tuesday they have found NCAA to let Purdue ofl'icials Llw Lakers a f1~w championships about 10 yem·s later. when the sport that has risnn the no evidence to support charges gather information th1~y said in the IIJROs. i\s a basketball teams began issuing $20 million quickest in popularity since the the men's basketball program they needed. fan. I hatNl Bird because he salaries like they were going 1970s, they can ill afford to do violated NCAA rules, except in On Monday, Burh said indin~rlly 1·aus1Hl tlw NBA lock­out of fashion. this. relation to minor violations Purdun's review found no evi­out. Perhaps the best exampin of Worst of all, what will the already reported. deneo to support charges that a 
YestPrdav tlw NBi\ canceled this ruin and the single event players do? The University has asked the prospective recruit rncnivnd a the first tw;, weeks of its season that scan!d the owners into ini­Will Shaq "attempt" acting NCAA to withdraw the allega­$4,000 bank loan with tlw as talks lwtween playnrs and tiating this lockout was Kevin again or will he team up with tions. understanding the monny did owners broke off in less than Garnett's six-year $126 million Fu-Shnikens in tribute to Digital Our hopo is that the enforce­not havn to be mpaid and that four hours. Both sid!)S have contract. Underground and C&C Music ment staff, after reviewing our the same player received a 
response and supporting mate­$150 payment !'rom a man
mad1~ modnrai.P concnssions Gamett. a talented forward Factory? Will Allen lvnrson gothroughout the labor impasse. who may yet lead his Minnesota rials, will agree with our eon­identi!ied as a Purdue hoostnr.
to jail'? Will Dennis Rodman 
hut tlwrn rmnains one issue Timberwolvos further than the elusion that the three major lie also said charges that
rntum to MTV, or will he spurn
that nnithnr sidP is willing to second round of the playoffs, allegations should be with­anothnr alleged boostnr paid
them f'or a guest role as the new
budge on: tlw so-calll'd Larry was in the right place at the . ,. drawn," Purdue athletic dire<> moving nxpnnses !'or tho moth­
mnmber of Dawson's Creek? 
Bird rulP. right time. tor Morgan Burke said. er of a Purdue player, allowed 
Most importantly, will Michael 
Tlw Larry Bird rule basically If Garnett left Minnesota, the Purdue announeed Mareh 2 her to live rent free for two 
Jordan, who admitted he quit that the NCAA was investigat­
states that a tmun ran excnml two other stars -Stephon months in an apartment he Llw salary cap and spPtHI as Marbury and Tom Gugliotta­baseball because of the strike, ing possible rules violations. owned and drove IH~r to and murh money as tlwy want to would have followed him. llis do the same and leave the game The University already had dis­from 25 Purdue basketball 
n~sign tlwir own free agents. deal is indicative of what sports of basketball forever? ciplined assistant coach Frank games arn untrue. 
l.ast y1•ar, the Chicago Bulls has become: a power struggle The NBA had long been head­Kendrick for meeting with a Kendrick, who allegedly paid Miduwl .Jordan a one-year over money. ing for a !inancial armageddon, recruit during a period desig­acted as intm·mediary in each $:B million salary-his salary Yet this power struggle has and the Garnett contract was nated by the NCAA as one incident, passed a lie detector alone exc1wdml the league's always seemed to avoid ruining the culmination of all the !inan­when coaches were not to have test last month, Burke said. salary rap -and wern operat­the NBi\ in the manner which it cial unrest. any contact with prospective "We believe the polygraph ing within tlw framework of the had ruined so many other The so-called Larry Bird rule athletes. Kendrick was lined an evidence provides additional NBi\'s rules. sports, most recently and most prompted the Garnett contract undisclosed amount of money credible and persuasive infor­
In Llw mid IIJSO's, when noticeably baseball. and therein led to the calling of and forbidden to recruit off mation to support his state­Bini's contrad 1mded. he want­The NBA, complete with this lockout. campus for 10 days during the ments," Burke said. ml to remain in Boston and be Jordan's dunks and Magic's no­As the owners and players try paid according to his level of look passes, had always seem­to lind a way to overcome this • MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBAll 
play. lie was grossly underpaid ingly avoided a shutdown. Their disaster, this rule again stands com parmi to the otlwr supers­!irst labor impasse could not between them and the NBA sea­tars in the league and even have come at a worse time. son. 
McGwire's title lands 
eomparnd to his tal1mted learn­Baseball had arguably the As much as I hated Bird, I still mates. most magical season it has ever respected him. He played the This was the eatch-22: Boston witnessed, long erasing memo­game selflessly, for the fans, 
him on Wheaties box 
had talented players like Kevin ries of their 1994 strike. and for his teams. Mrllale. Hobert Parish and Football is coming oiT a season The players today, for the 
Associated Press 
McGwire Wheaties box will bel>nnnis .Johnson. who wen~ all in which the Denver Broncos. most part, don't, even though available to the public.

paid fairly. but in order to sign perennial Super Bowl they reap the benefits of his GOLDEN VALLEY, Minn. The 18-ounce McGwire boxBird they would have to excned wannabes, dnfeated the rule. Just as they are different, 
Home-run king Mark will be available nationwide
the cap or convince him to sign almighty Green Bay Packers in so are the owners, more !illed 
McGwire of the St. Louis starting next week.
for less money. one of the most exciting Super with greed and bottom lines. 
Cardinals has slugged his way The company also said itBird, as competitive oil' the Bowls ever. College football, for The Lakers-Celtics days are onto the Wheaties box. would donate 10 cents to the court as on the court. would the !irst time ever, has designed long gone, and it seems I can no General Mills Inc. on Tuesday Buoniconti Fund to Cure rwvnr· settle for the latter a Bowl Alliance system whf~re longer hate Bird for what he did 
unveiled a special box com­for each box of
option. Till' former option tho top two teams are guaran-to the Lakers. 
And steer yourself toward success. Navis tar operates one of the world's largest facilities dedicated to the design, development and testing of trucks and truck components. And we can provide you with the challenges you're looking for in a post-graduate career. If you'll be receiving a BSME, MSME, BSEE or MSEE degree, meet us on campus at the: 
Na,..i§tar lnfor01ation Se§sion Center For Continuing Edu«:ation Roo01 #11~ Wednesday, OctoLer ~8 
6:00pDI 

On-campus representatives will be there to tell you all about the 200 Design Engineering positions avail­able at our leading-edge company. Along with the opportunity to apply the very latest technologies, we offer amactive starting salaries, comprehensive benefit plans and outstanding advancement potential. Come for the information and stay for the refreshments. 
Can't attend? Send your resume or letter of interest to: Navistar International Transportation Corp., Attn: Human Resources, Dept. DNPP-I004, P.O. Box I 109, Pt. Wayne, IN 4680I, Pax: (2I9) 46I-I453. Email: ata@navistar.com. Visit our web site at: www.mixi.net/-ntc2. An equal opportunity/affirmative action employer m/f/d/v. 
Questions OrMore Information Call1-888-347-3647 or (219) 461-7520. 
N,IV/STNI. 
Paralysis 

memorating the incredible sea­Wheaties. Honey Frosted son in which McGwire shat­Wheaties or Crispy Wheaties 'n tered Hoger Maris' single-sea­Haisins sold through Nov. (,, 
son home-run record by hitting including the MeGwire box. 70 round-trippers. The fund was eo-founded by 
McGwire's historic race to former Miami Dolphin line­the home-run title captured the backer gn~at Nick Buoniconti, imagination of baseball fans who was inspired to lwlp in tho throughout the country. As a efforts to cure paralysis when limited-edition issue. only his son Marc brokn his rwck 
about 1 .5 million copies of the playing college football. 
• NATIONl fOOTBAlL LEAGUE 
Collins cut calling it ­quits as Carolina QB 
Associated Press The Panthers have lost seven 
consecutive gamns, live this sea­

CIIARLOTTE, N.C. son. the longest losing strPak in 
Kerry Collins, drafted to be tho three-plus years of thn fran­the cornerstone of the Carolina chise. Panthers, was cut Tuesday, six Collins, 25-21 as Carolina's days after he said his heart was starter. walked into Capers' no longer into being the dub's oflice 
quartPrback. last Wednesday and told him 
The team announced its move he thought it would be best !'or less than an hour after the the team if sonwmw else wern NFL's trading deadline passnd. to take over as tho starter. Coach Dom Capers said the Capers said that as word of Panthers spoke with at least 10 Collins' request began to litter teams over several days to through the locker room. it gauge what interest the rest of quickly becamn appan•nt the the league might have in quarterback no longer would 
Collins. i\ftnr finding no takers, have the backing of his tnam­Carolina elected to waive him. matos, many of whom felt 
"I certainly don't take any joy betrayed. i\t that point, Capers in making this decision," Capers said, he began to wonder if said. "But from day one, I've keeping Collins around would 
stated that every decision that create the right kind of environ­I'll make will be in the best ment !'or the rest of the team. interests of the Carolina "The timing of this made it so Panthers. And with all the cir­nxtremely difficult that I don't 
cumstances involved hem, this know how we could have was a decision we felt that we responded in any otlwr naturn." had to make." Capers said. 

~-----~--------~~ ~--~ 
.
~ 
) ' 

page 20 Wednesday, October 14, 1 998 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
PR :UECT 
Give away your coat.. and SHARE 1HE WARMTII.
WARMTH 
CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
~-······· ................. 

·.......... ' ..... 
''·. ·-.•;. ..·. ··.·. <. ::· '::.:>...· . .:: ·: / .:: .... ::: ·\..:.:...........;,.._•,•,•,•, .. :>. :::. :.... •, .. ·, .::· ., . 
::::,:;~~;;;;;,•::. ·:·. · · .·.·:·:·.·.·.··:·:··-·.-. ·-:· .-.;.;:;:·.·.-.;.;~~::x;:::&.t.•!•!•»:.~:;:;._m:sS:~;:@w...-.x ·....•;.· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·· · · · · · · · ... · · · · · · · · · · · ··· •J • • • • ·,:lc~e=~:-:+ · 
'.. • • • ............. 'if. 
Project Warmth and the University of Notre Dame want to help you, once again, share the Notre Dame warmth and spirit. 
When you turn in your coat or jacket October 26, 1998 through December 4, 1998 at the Center for Social Concerns, the Hammes Bookstore or other promi­nently displayed locations around campus, PROJECT WARMTH® and 'fhe University of Notre Dame will donate it to someone who can really use it this winter. In return, you will receive a certificate good for 25o/o off a new GEAR 
-
ror Sports® jacket at the Hammes Bookstore. 
SHARE mE WARMTH AND mE SPIRIT OF NOTRE DAME! 
CouEcnoN JITES: Centerfor Social Concerns • Hammes Bookstore • Student Government •St. MtciJael's Laundry -Main and Campus Dtstribution Center • LaFortune Injormation Desk • Atumnt Association -423 Grace Hall • 
ALL Residence Halls • 204 COBA • 257 Fitzpatrick Hall • 1uu liona Halt • 103 Law School • 137 0' SIJag • 202 Hurley 
GEAR 
y. 
S ~ 0. I T S

r "' • UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME , 
••(wo_.

• STUDENT GOVERNMENT • Sr. MICHAELs LAUNDRY • ~ • !J e ~UrPUill SEitYICfS e ~tuafnt Actmttes e Hammes Bookstun: 

'' 

~--_,___,.........._. _ -~-._.....,
.....
--~~-~--­

Wednesday, October 14, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
points (8) in a 45-minute half. we practice for and what we leading the conference in both The Irish, however, are not In addition, Gemrdo earned play for -to better ourselves categories. the only team lo benefit from
Gerardo 

Big East o!Tensivn player of the and to put ourselves in a posi­Gerardo also knows how to Gerardo's outstanding play. 
wnek honors for her play tion to win the National step up her play in the big Gerardo also llashes her skills
continued from page 24 

against Boston College and Championship. The seniors that game. . on the Mexican National team. "It is fitting Monica brokfl the Prnvidonce. are left on this team know what "It is not that Monica just Slu1 will try to help them qualify "My confidence has started to it takes to win a National scores goals, she scorns big for the World Cup when they
rneord in a game whnrn she seon!d thrnn goals because ovnr risn within the last few weeks Championship and hopnfully we goals," Petrucelli said. play a homn-away snries against and l'vn nnjoyed playing a lot will bn able to help guide this As a sophomore, she scored Argentina in Dncembnr.
lwr canH~r. slw has tnndnd to scorP goals in bunchns," said morn than I had in tlw past," team to anothtlr one this year." the game-winning goal in the As for now, Gnrardo's nanw is l'drucnlli. "Our tnams havn Gnrardo said. As a frnshman on that cham­NC/\A snmifinals against entnred into the Irish record always st~on~d a lot of goals Thn senior forward, hownver, pionship team. she led tlwm l'ol'tland. Last season, she books. nvnnly by a lot of players. so will not be truly content until with 20 goals and was a first­scored the Irish's only goal in "With all of the grnat playnrs Monica had a lot of compntition 
tho Irish rneapturn the National team all-Big East selection and their 1-0 win over No. 3 to have starred at Notrn Damn, to rnaeh tlw rneord." Championship that she enjoyed rookie of thn year honoree. Portland and had a hat trick it is prntty humbling to st:orn as a player during her freshman She followed up that year with against Cincinatti in the NCAA's. more goals than any of tlwm,"
In tlw tt!ams' X-0 win ovnr tlw Friars. (;nrardo also ehippml in SlHlSOn. a sensational sophomme season This season, Gerardo had the Gerardo said. "It probably won't two l'irst-half assists. sntting "It is the primary goal for this in which shn scored 23 goals team's lone goal in the loss at set in until my playing days ar·n anotlwr sdwol rneord for most 
tnarn," Gnrardo said. "It's what and finished with 59 points, North Carolina. over." 
• COLLEGE fOOTBAll 

Hall of Fame set to honor former Irish football stars 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Pamn will pay tributn to tim Jeg­Glenn Davis 1946, Johnny Lujack the war. Besides quarterbacking, "It was a vnry important Sporrs Editor nnds of tho rivalry with a ban­1947, Lnon Hart 1949 and Pete hn also punted and played a bit gamn," Davis said. "It was a vnry quet. The evening will honor two Dawkins 1958 will be on hand of defense. defensive game, I think Tf sonw­-
Tlw Collngn Football Hall of specific games in the storind his­for the dinner. I le preserved the scorelnss tie one scored in the first quartPr it Fanw plans to honor one of thn tory, the 1946 scoreless tie at Lujaek who began quarter­in 1946 against Army with a would have opened the game grPatnst traditions in eollngn lilOt­Yankee Stadium and the 1958 backing the tnam in his sopho­touchdown saving tackle. up." hall history, the Notre Darne­win by /\rrny, the last time the more year Jed the team to three · In his junior season, he fin­Army came into the gamn con­/\rrny rivalry. Cadnts have won against the national titles. He earned all­ished third in lleisman voting fident having won 25 straight 
Tlw wnnknnd of tlw Notrn Irish. American honors his junior and behind Army's Davis. games. They appeared well on its l>arnn-/\rmy ganw, thn llall of lleisman Trophy winners senior ynars after returning from llis senior year, he not only way to a third-straight national 
Two delicious breakfast sandwiches for just two dollars. 
(Just a little something to tide you over until lunch.) 

These two hreakfast sandwiches are more than just a little something. Right now, they're also a great deal. Just come into Burger King• aml get the delicious CROISSAN'WICH• and the tasty Biscuit sandwich for just $2. That's two great-tasting breakfast sandwiches with sizzling sausage, egg, ;md melted cheese for $2. So go ahead, have both in the morning After all, you haven't eaten all day. 
(Price and participation may vary. During breakfast hours only.) 
T~e Huddle -LaFortune Student Center 
~ 
BURGER 
KING 
® 

It just tastes better:· 
C1998 Burger King Corporation. Burger Kmg Corporation Is the exclusive licensee of the registered Croissan'wich, Burger King and Bun Halves logo trademarks. 
won the Heisman but was title. named the Associated Neither team appnared domi­Press male athlete of the nant on tlw fatnf'ul day in year. November. Notre Dame racked 
llart, another lleisman up 219 yards and I 0 first downs winner for Notre Dame, to Army's 224 yards and nine earned his excellence as a first downs. linemen. In his four years "There were many outstanding at the University, the team players on the field that day," never registered a Joss. Lujack said. ''I'm just happy that 
Like Lujack, his snnior I was able to be one of them." year proved very reward­Charlie Jones of NBC sports ing, earning the will host the banquet. The rncep­Associated Prnss male tion will not only include thn leg­athlete of the year award ends but entnrtainment provided and the Maxwell /\ward by thn United States Military Glee as top collegiate player. Club as well as I(Jotawl from thn 
.Joining them at the trib­two games. ute will be Ifall of Famers ''I'm thrilled to be invited to George Connor, Bill participate in this evnnt," .Jones. Fischer, Jim Martin, Mastnr of Cnrnmonios, said. "I Barney Poole and Joe vividly rnmember listening to Steffy. October 2:{, the Notrn Dame-Army gamns on the night of the banquet, will radio when I was young. I know bn the first time these leg­I'm not 16 ynars old, but I feel ends have been together that type of nxeitmnent wlwn I since they went head-to­think about meeting, visiting and hnad on the field. talking with the playt1rs involved 
The 1946 game at in this twening." Yankee Stadium was a This formal evnning is opPn to sellout with tickets being the public. It includes a rtlcep­gonn since June but not tion. dinner and a silent auction going on sale publiely of mnmorabilia. The cost is $35 until August. The Irish per pPrson. For mor·e informa­entered the contest !i-0, tion n~garding thn owning rail 1­having humiliatnd all live 800-440-F/\ME or (2 I 9)235­
of their opponents. 5707 . 
• WOMEN'S INTERHALL fOOTBALL 
PE destroys Welsh; Farley edges McGlinn 
By SARA ELBERTS 
Spores Writer 

In the final game of their regular season, Pa..o.;querilla Ea..<>t beat Welsh decisively 26-6. 
Pyros quarterback Elizabeth Plummer eonnccted on three touchdown passes. Abby Hoss then relieved her and eonneeted for the final Pyros poinL<>. 
Melissa Gorman and Molly Hoft both seorPd for PE while Kerry Hanley eaught two touchdown passes and madA an extra point. 
"It was a good note to end the season on, and now we're looking forward to the playoffs," said PE captain Alison 1-lealy. " 
Farley 6, McGlinn 0 
Farley endDd their season by dolilating McGlinn 6-0 in a tough defensive game. Farley quarterback Jenny Geraci connected with lleth McKay, who ran the ball in for the lone touchdown. 
Defender Caroline Schmidt contributed to Farley's win with a key interception that pushed the momentum their way. 
"We'vt~ improved since the beginning of thn s!lason and are looking to continue our winning streak next season." said Farley captain Elizabeth Brown. 
--
~.~~~--------~~--~~----~~----------~----~---------.------~------~--.--.-----.------~----.. 
~ 
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, October 14, 1998 
Hockey 
continued from page 24 
tlw weekend. lie also led the way for an Irish penalty­killing unit that stopped nine of 11 opponent power-play chances during the two games. 
Notre Dame-which opened with a 2-1 win at Wisconsin on October 3 despite an opposing crowd of 13.000-plus has p.ost­ed wins in its first three games versus Western Collegiate Hockey Association or CCHA teams for the first time in the 
Soccer 
continued from page 24 
defense can get it to the mid­dle, but we have a problem working it throught to the offense."

-
Midfielder Mary Hoffman agreed with her teammate. 
"We definitely didn't create enough offense from the mid­field," she said. 
The Belles did come out strong in the first half and held Calvin to only one point. 
Calvin. however. became yet another team that gave the Belles a headache in the sec­ond half. They adjusted well at half time and threw every­thing they had at Saint Mary's in the second half. 
They used multiple substitu­tions and varied their offense frequently. Saint Mary's has been out-scored 8-0 in the second half in their last two games. 
"They were very quick. They were switching players all over the field," said forward Katie Barger. "We really had a difficult time defending 
October 19 October 21

-
October 24 October 27-30 October 30 
... :'=:':t?: 

-
program's history. 

Inman continued his impres­sive debut as the second-line center, providing the primary assist on Matt Van Arkel's rebound goal that provided the winning margin versus Lake Superior. The 6-l, 190­pound lefthander 11irted with a hat trick the next night versus WMU, forcing his own break­away goal to open the scoring early in the first period be~re converting a tap-in power-play goal for a 3-1 Irish lead mid­way through the second peri­od. 
Inman was +I for the week­end while committing no 
what they were throwing at 
us." 

The Belles are now looking for leadership to pull them from their dismal record. 
The seniors. Joanne Wagner. Liz Coley, Hoffman and Katie Wagner can step up and offer their experience. They have the talent but they need to better communication and confidence if they hope to turn the record into a respectable one. 
Paulen believes Saint Mary's needs to make more of a men­tal adjustment than any physi­cal change. 
"We're just hoping to come out and play strong and smart. We know we have the potential; we just need to use it," she said. "We tend to come out defensively when we know we're up against a good team. We just need to put it all together and give it our best." 
Saint Mary's plays Alma College on Saturday at home and hopes to turn things around. This will be another important conference game for the Belles. 
at.~ockford ColleQe H,OPE COLLEGE ... · 
·4 

at Defiance College League Play at Goshen College 
;.·....::·.. 

The Observer/Mark Higgins 
............ . 

penalties in the two games. 
Urick is tied for the team lead in plus~minus while total­ing no penalties through the first three games. 
His live-point weekend gives Urick 45 goals and 45 ass'ists, inching him closer to the 100­point plateau and to distinc­tion as the 27th Notre Dame player to total 50 career goals and 50 assists. 
Over the past two seasons, Urick has 39 points (20G-I 9A) in 44 games while owning a team-best +20 plus-minus ratio and only 40 penalty min­utes. 
The 6-1, 195-pound righthander has scored six of' the team's 21 game-winning goals during the past two sea­sons. 
Karr's impressive debut as 
the Irish starter includes post­ing a 1.34 season goals­against average and .948 save pPrcentage, whiln playing a leading role in the .867 Irish pPnalty-killing unit. Ilis career record now stands even at 11­11-1, including 9-3-1 over the past two seasons. while Karr owns a solid 2.52 GPA during the past two seasons. 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Notre Dame Council on International Business Development 

NDCIBD 

Presents: 
NICOLE CARLSTROM 
INVESTMENT BANKING ANALYST WITH MERRIL LYNCH 
Discussing 
''Interviewing Techniques'' 
All Classes, all m~ors welcome 
Wednesday, October 14, 1998 5:15 -6:30 p.m. at LOSt CORA 

Wednesday, October 14, 7:00p.m., Hesburgh Auditorium, Notre Dame 
Saint Mary's 
setrESrER AROUND THE WORLD PltOGRA11 
-
• SPORTS BRIEFS 

:·.!fi-·.·:·::·::· . . . ·::::.::·:
Challenge U Fitness L Fitness classes are half price after break. Stop by the RecSports office in the RSRC to register. Look for the complete schedule on the RecSports web page. 
:.)1.::·-····:;;;;,:· 
Yoga-A new yo~~ class will be h~ld on Mondays, 10126: 12/7, from 7-8:15 p.m. in the RSRC. Registration begins Wednesday, Octobe ~ .. at?i1S ~:~-.m, llt th~RSRC. Spa~~x~$
limited. · · .,:·'r · · ·· ·· · · • · 
Tai Chi-7:4.5"'a.m. Wetfnesdays, RSRC.Space is 
Knocko Wednesday, will. he held Center boxing 



Open to all ND/SMC students 
Challenging academic program at Sacred Heart College in Cochin, India, focusing on the Asian world 16 semester credits applicable towards core or major requirements 
INFORMATION AND APPLICATIONS AVAILABlE SHORT VlDEO ON HIGJ lUGI fJ'S AL!IHNI TO ANSWER QUESTIONS 
Any qu~stions, call Dr. C Pullapilly, 184--1468. 
Opportunity for travel and study in many countries of the Far East, Southeast Asia, South Asia, Eastern Europe and Western Europe 

Wednesday, October 14, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF ND 
f-OXTROT 
IT'S AMA'Z.ING. 

To-ScHooL ouTFI~, SHE'D HAVE To EARN THE EXTRA MONEY HERSELF. 
~(~/ ~~ 
~If 

DILBERT 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Upper Great Lakes Indian 1 Cheat 14"Mme. 
24 United Nations vote 
25 Went off course 
26 Homes abroad 
27 Merrymaking Charpentier and 
29 Car engine part
Her Children" artist 30 Object of a hunt in a 1929
15 Flirt 
mystery 16Chemical 
34 Inti. org. basedwarfare gas 
in D.C. 11 Weathercock's 
35 Forty-niners'roost equipment
18 Chisels, e.g. 
37 Brews 
19 Famously touchy one? 
40 Naval personnel 
41 Evil spirit20 Address abbr. 
21 Apple 42Colorin a alternatives Spanish sunset 
22 Kind of colony 43 Leftover 23 Tommy Atkins, 44 Wife of Lamectl 
e.g. in the Bible 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZnE 


DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

BILL AMEND 
THAT So MANY OUTFI1'S COULD PoSSIBLY EXIST, 
I 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Harry Anderson, Ralph Lauren, Roger Moore, Lillian Gish 
Happy Birthday: You will have some wonderful ideas this year, but if you are too quick to put your plans into motion you will fall short of your goals. This is not the year to lake chances and certainly not a time to pursue your goals if you haven't pre­pared well for the task. You must slow down and plan your actions wisely and efficiently. Your numbers: 10, 19, 24, 28, 37, 46 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Try to give others the benefit of the doubt today. It will be important that you keep busy. Don't start arguments in your domestic scene. You will be erratic and unpredictable. 00000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Be creative in your work and you will get favorable response from employ­ers. You can help a friend find a solu­tion to a pressing personal problem by offering advice based on your own experiences. 00 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Finan­cial changes can be expected. Hidden assets or money that you didn't work for may be coming your way. Insur­ance surrenders, tax rebates or an inheritance may be forthcoming. 0000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't overreact to personal situations that you cannot control. Visit with rela­tives who can help clear up your emotional confusion. Be careful not to nag about household chores. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your work should be your prime concern. You
SCOTT ADAMS 

will be able to instigate important jobs if you are persuasive in your prcsen­tatio-n. Make the changes you ft'CI al'l necessary. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your high energy and competitive nalun· will put you in the driver's seat. Go after your goals and don't let ntht•r, hold you back. Don't get invoh•t•d in joint financial ventures. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): II is bt>sl to sit back and do your own thing. When family members need help ll'l them ask. You will have trouble with loved ones if you g<>t in the middle ol an argument. 0000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You should be looking into new avenues. Sign up for courses if you are having a problem keeping a job. Financial problems arc causing friction at home.OO 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Relatives will be demanding if you ll'l them. You musl learn to say no ii you wish to keep your sanily. Pul your efforts into your professional goals 00000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-jan. 19): Get involved in worthwhile groups Your mate will be demanding. Try to be understanding about his or ht•r concerns, but don't give in to unrP,l· sonable requests. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You should look into night courses thai will enable you to change your pw· fessional direction. Expect to have a problem with a colleague who does­n't like the way you do things. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): This is a great day to do things that you will find self-satisfying. You need to get out with friends or get intt> a hobby that will be stimulating. 000 

Birthday Baby: You love to be on stage. You're a born entertainer and a dra· malic individual. You are in love with life and just want to enjoy all that it has to offer. You're not the best when it comes to saving money; however, you will experience a host of events, activities and circumstances throughout your life 
(Need advice? Visit Eugenia on the Web at www.astroadvice.com ''' www.eugenialast.com.) C 1998 LlmH•rsal Pn..•ss S~·ndic-Ml' 
Wanted: Reporters and photographers. Join The Observer staff. Calll,S323 or stop by
37 1985 Jonathan 43 Fancy 
Pryce film 44 "Falstaff" soprano
38 Epoch in which 46 Mister, in
mammals arose 
Madras: Var. 39 Boots 
47 Purplish brown 

024 South 
49 Animation frame 

40 Complains feebly 50 Crosscut 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch·tone phone: 
Dining Hall. 
1·900-420·5656 (75¢ per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: (800) 762-1665 
.-.. 
., 
-
45 War hero 46 Bake, in a way 47 Photographic 
surface 48 Gold coin of old 50 Beau 51 Modern 
time-waster? 52 Consent 53 Pre-Life picture 
magazine 54 Removed, with "out" 
DOWN 
1 Panegyrics 2 Three·liter bottle 3 Sometime woe 
for Thurber 4ls angry 5 Sports page 
slats &"You--" (1983 Lionel 
Richie hit) 7 Thingamajig a Uniform 9 Stew 
10 Female sandpiper 11 Scents 12 No man's land? 13 Stopping points 
15 Subject of a 1926 Charlie Chan mystery 
19 Famille members 22 Crowbars 
23--diRoma (Italian financial giant) 
25 Sundance Kid's girlfriend and others 
26 Repairs, in a way: Var. 
28 Gold-mining province of Ecuador 29 Dared 31 Fin 32 Became rusty 33 Roundworm 36 Made round 

The Observer  Make checks payable to: and mail to:  The Observer P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and  D  Enclosed is $85 for one academic year  
events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community.  D Enclosed is $45 for one semester  

Name ____________________________________________
.Join the more than 13,000 readers who have Address _______________________________________
found The Observer an indispensible link to the 
City--------------State _____ Zip__________
two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 




• Yankees are World 
• Hitchcock will take 
Series bound after 
the mound for the 
defeating the Indians 
Padres in Game 6 
9-5 in the ALCS. 
against the Braves.
PORTS 
p.I6
p.I7 
O THE 

page 24 Wednesday, October 14, 1998
BSERVER 


Belles slump continues, outscored 6-0 by Calvin 
By MOLLY McVOY Sports Writer 
Things just aren't improving for the Belles. Saint Mary's soccer team dropped another one 
Tuesday to Calvin College 6-0. 
After a streak where the Belles were undefeat­
ed, winning three and tying two, Saint Mary's 
seems to be back in slump. They have lost two 
-
in a row and their record is now 3-8-2. The Belles have been out-scored 15-1 in these losses. 
Calvin dominated the game and proved on Tuesday that they deservPd to be rankpd sixth in the MIAA Conference. 
Calvin had a record of 10-5 and has scored 49 points going into this game while Saint Mary's record was 3-7-2 and they had scored 17 points. 
At Calvin, the Belles continued to struggle moving the ball to their offense. Saint Mary's had only one shot on goal the entire game and seemed to always be on defense. ­
This is a problem that has been plaguing the Belles in all eight of their losses. Their defense has been tough, but has been called on to defend the entire game. 
Without an offensive attack, the defense was easily exhausted in the second half. Part of their trouble lies in their midfield. 
They have had a terrible time getting the ball from their defense to their offense in all of their losses so far this season. 
"We seem to have a gap on thP field," said defender and midfielder Laura Paulen. "The 

• HOCKEY 

Karr, Urick receive CCHA honors of week 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame hockey team swept the first weekly Central Collegiate Hockey Association player of the week awards, with senior right wing Brian Urick earn­ing CCHA offensive player of the week honors while senior goaltender Forrest Karr was named the conference's defensive player of the week. 
Irish freshman center David 
Inman was edged out for 
CCHA rookie of the week hon­
ors by Michigan rookie goal­
tender Josh Blackburn, who 
began his career on Sunday 
with a 2-0 shutout win over 
Lake Superior. 
Urick totaled four goals and 
• SAINT MARY'S SOCCER 

one assist over the weekend in home victories over Lake Superior and Western Michigan while finishing each game +2. His first-period goal tied the Lake Superior State game,l-1, while his empty­netter sealed the win over the Lakers. His power-play goal late in the first period of the Western Michigan game proved to be the game-win­ner, with Urick adding a goal early in the third period and assisting on Dan Carlson's power-play score with 4:53 left to play. Karr registered 23 saves in the Lake Superior game and 20 versus Western Michigan while allowing just one even-strength goal during 
see HOCKEY I page 22 
• WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Gerardo kicks out another record 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Just like Sammy Sosa a 

nd Mark McGwire, Notre Dame's Monica Gerardo was in pursuit of magical number 61. 
Gerardo, however, wasn't chasing Roger Maris' record, but rather that of all-American and national soccer player of the year Cindy Daws, who had held the scoring record at Notre Dame until last weekend. 
"It was something I knew that was out there and was possible for me to aocomplish, but it wasn't one of my main focuses," Gerardo said. "I wanted to play well for the team rather than try to better my individual statistics. I was fortunate enough that · things worked out in my favor and I was able to break this record." 
Gerardo entered last week­end's play with six goals on the season and 59 on her career, placing her just two back of Daws. 
The senior, however, scored twice on Friday against Boston College to tie the record and fol­lowed it up with three first-half goals in a four-minute span against Providence to break the mark. 
"It feels great" to break the record, Gerardo said. "Obviously Cindy Daws is an excellent player and just to be mentioned in the same sentence with her and to break her record is hard to believe." 
Gerardo's coach, however, knew great things were to come from her. years ago." 
"The record is something With her fourth hat triek, Monica really deserves," Irish Gerardo now holds sole poss!~S­head coach Chris Petrucelli said. sion of the record with 64 "She has been a player that career goals. scored goals for us as soon as 
The Observer/John Daily Monica Gerardo recently surpassed Cindy Daws' 61 career-goal record for the Irish. She has the rest of the season to add to her 64. 
Freshman Jessica Klink (No. 18) attempted to jump-start the Belles' weary offense Tuesday against Calvin College. see SOCCER I page 22 
vs. Army at Connecticut 
t~~ October 24, 1 :30 p.m. 1!1 Friday, 7:30 p.m. 
Cross Country 
SPORTS 
• at Central Collegiates 
ATA 
Friday, 4:15 p.m. 

vs. Connecticut at Duke 
. 

Friday, 7 p.m . Saturday, 7 p.m. 
GLANCE 





