
----~----------------~----~------------------------, 
-. aHd 'P~ • "A Midsummer 
50 YEARS AT NOTRE DAME 
Irish Drop the Ball
-l.'t ___ L Night's Dream" hits 
• Notre Dame men's basketball suffered a
&~!. 1H4111te ND this weekend. 
• Mel Tardy celebrates a milestone for 
painful loss to Rutgers.

black students and alumni at Notre Dame. 
~. p.14 
p.28

13 



By SARAH HILTZ Assistant News Editor 
Jeanne White-Ginder wants everybody to know that all she ever wanted to be was a moth­er. 
But since the death of her son, Ryan, in 1990, White­Ginder's life has drastically changed. She has since become an international spokeswoman for the fight to increase educa­tion about AIDS and HIV. 
''I'm not a professional speaker. I'm a mom just like your mom. And my son was a 
Jeanne White-Ginder spoke to a standing-room-only crowd last night, sharing her story. kid, just like you. But because
The Observer/Liz Lang 
Friday, February 6, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No. 86 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S ' 
'All I knew about AIDS was that you died from it.' 
Jeanne White-Ginder shares her crusade for AIDS education and how she turned sorrow into strength 
• SECURITY BEAT 

Vandals hit cars at ND and SMC 
Observer Staff Report 
Vandals broke into 15 cars in the Saint Mary's student parking lot early Wednesday morning, according to the College's Security Department. 
Between 2 a.m. and 8 a.m., the culprits broke car windows, pried CD players out of the dashboards and, in one case, stole a cellular phone, the police report statrd. 
"J have a CD player with a detachable face," said Saint Mary's student Susan Sufka. "The faceplate wasn't on, but they tried to steal the stereo anyway. 
"They caused extensive damage to my dashboard, and over $1,000 in total damage to my car," she added. 
Four South Bend teenagers were apprehended in the D2 parking lot for breaking into two Jeeps on Tuesday at 10:30 p.m., according to Chuck Hurley, assistant director of Security/Police. 
Officers reportedly discovered the perpetrators after a female student reported suspicious activity in the area. 
see CARS I page 4 
.... CAMPAIGN .... TRAIL 
This week, The Observer will print 
articles about a/19 tickets running for student 
body president and vice president. 




What's up, Doc? 

ND liaisons help communication in Elkhart ER 
By KRISTI KUTSCH Assistanr News Editor 
Nobody likes to wait. 
But waiting has become a com­mon complaint in society, and'a frustrating part of receiving med­ical attention. 
A sick person can expect to wait for an appointment, wait to see a nurse, wait to see a doctor and wait to have X-rays and tests taken. Then, that person will wait for the results, wait to see the doctor again and wait to receive medication. 
In a hospital emergency room the wait is especially long, at a time when the service should be faster and more efficient. 
But in the Elkhart General Hospital emergency room, the Student Liaison Program helps facilitate physician/patient com­munication. 
The SLP is a work program which combines the resources of Elkhart General Hospital with the enthusiasm and interest of Notre Dame students. 
The SLP originated in 1984, stemming from the Elkhart emer­gency room's void in communica­
see LIAISON I page 6 
of a misunderstood disease called AIDS, our lives would never be the same," White­Ginder said. 
During last night's lecture, White-Ginder told her story about her son's illness and the discrimination that resulted from the lack of education sur­rounding the disease. The lec­ture included a clip from the television program, "West 57th Street," and a short video pro­duced by Michael Jackson with a song he wrote for Ryan. 
Only days after Ryan was 
see AIDS I page 8 


Notre Dame students in the Student Liaison Program at Elkhart General Hospital's ER help out the staff by func­tioning as a "patient advocate," communicating with the patients and their families. 
page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

Boys will be boys 
There are, by and 
Laura Petellelarge, two types of men 
Assistant News Editor
at Notn1 Dame. 
Some Notre Dame 
men, those I'll call typ1] A, are the ones who 
are in love with tlwir roommates. They live in 
complete pigsties with three-week-old pizza 
boxes on the floor. and play Nintcndo all day 
long. If they're interested in women (you can 
tell whieh ones these arc by the bikini-model 
posters on the wall), it's only to brag about 
"getting some"-whieh doesn't happen often 
for most type A's. 
These are the men who, five years from 
now, will be living in apartments with the 
same roommates and floormatns that they're 
living with now. I've seen it: 28-year-old men 
still living with the same guys they lived with 
at Notre Dame, still playing Nintendo, still 
bragging about the size of their stereos. 
Don't gnt me wrong; these are fun guys 
(especially if you're a video-game fan or like 
the "Star Wars" movies). But they're not 
nxactly gender-relations poster boys. 
Tlwn there's type B. 
These are the guys who are always dating, 
and always in "serious" relationships. 
'l:lwy'm what ~~ne of my friends calls "mar­
rmge focusnd. 
Type B guys are seared to death to be alone 
-scared that in a year or two they'll be 
graduating, leaving eollege and their parents' 
home for good. They're scared to death they 
might have to be independent for the 10 
entire seconds between graduation and the 
time they walk down the aisle in the Basilica. 
Or, as another of my friends hypothesizes, 
they're afraid that if they don't find a life­
mato at Notre Dame, they'll never find any­
ono bettnr. 
Typ1] B guys are sweet (I admit I say "aww" 
when I hear about the flowers they brought 
their girlfriends), but more than a little scary. 
There am, of course. the rare, normal guys 
out there. But most of them, liko tho prover­
bial parking spot, are taken. 
And people wond11r why gender relations 
arn abysmal at Notre Dame. 
As for myself. I've declan~d war on this 
state of a11'airs. I lind it sad that out of 5,000 
attractive young men on this campus, I can't 
find a single normal one to hang out with. 
I admit that it's been over seven months 
sincn I went on what would be called a "date" 
at any school but Notre Dame. But this "boy 
hiatus," as I call it. has been self-inflicted, 
due to an appalling Jack of datable fodder. 
This boy hiatus has been extremely healthy 
-I've gotten a glimpse of the dating scene 
from the outside, had some time oil' to 
roassess men. ami had Jots of quality bonding 
time with my couch and my chick flicks (I've 
seen "Little Women" more times than I can 
count). 
Furthermore, my emotions are intact, my 
grades are great (all that extra homework 
time), and there's no time wasted calling 
everyone I know to tell about my boy's latest 
foibles. 
I'm starting to wonder if seven months has 
been enough, but I'm not quite ready to end 
my boy hiatus yet. I've been enjoying having 
my time to myself too much to be ready to 
give any of it up to a Domer man, be he type 
A or type B. 
I'll be at the Lyons Hall SYR tonight, and I'll 
be easy to find. I'll be the one dancing by 
myself. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TODAY's STAFF 
News Graphics Laura Petelle Dave Piening Kathleen O'Brien Production Christopher Shipley Kathleen Lopez 
Sports Lab Tech Sarah Dylag John Daily Viewpoint All-Around Swell Guy 
Colleen Gaughen Brad Prendergast Accent Rachel Torres 
Tho ob,orvor (USPS 599 2-4000) is publishod Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the A:,socia1ed Pres~. All reproduction righrs arc reserved. 
Friday, February 6, 1998

The Observer • INSIDE 

El Nino driven storm slams into Stanford campus 
STANFORD, Calif. 
Caught in the eye of an El Nifio storm, the Stanford campus was thrown into an uproar yesterday, with damage to several University buildings and the cancellation of classes. 
University registrar Roger Printup said cancellations were due to "flood­ing and damage." Classes resume today. 
More than live inches of rain fell Monday night, creating a river flowing on the downward slope from the Braun Music Center to the Meyer and Green library area. Buildings that sustained flood damage include Cubberley Auditorium, Green Library, Jonsson Library of Government Documents, Braun and the basements of Wilbur and Stern Halls. 
The storm drains around Green Library could not handle the sudden, large amount of water, which created a back flow that flooded the library's basement, according to Larry Gibbs, 
director of Environmental Health and Safety. Other damage around campus included a fallen tree on Junipero 

S e r r a Boulevard between Campus Drive West and Page Mill Road. A car hit the tree someti"me Monday night, but no one was hurt, and the road was only closed until late yesterday morning, said Stanford Police 

Sgt. Hilary Karp. In addition, a 250-year-old oak tree was toppled ncar Webb Ranch. 
A large eucalyptus tree branch also fell on two cars in the Mudd Chemistry Building parking lot, crushing their windshields and driver's side doors. The Grant Building in the Medical School also incurred some water dam­age. Other buildings, such as Lane History Corner, have wet floors and could possibly need new carpet. 
San Francisquito Creek. which runs along the western edge of Stanford's property out to the Bay, was also run­ning much higher than normal. Much of the bank mid the walking trails that run along the creek were washed away, and the maintenance adminis­trator at the Oak Creek Apartments put up yellow caution tape to prevent pedestrians from entering the slippery area. 
Some students did attend their first classes because neither they nor their professors had heard of the cancella­tion, which circulated through e-mail shortly after 9 a.m. Classes that had midterms scheduled for today were also canceled. 
• UNIVERSITY OF fLORIDA 
Student changes plea to guilty 
GAINESVILLE, Fla 
Samman Pronsum Ricci, one of five Gainesville students tied to the drug-related murder of Ralph Alphonso Vasquez, changed his plea Wednesday morning from not guilty to guilty of accessory to murder after the fact. As part of his plea bargain, the former Santa Fe Community College student has agreed to testify about the December night that ended in the brutalbeating and shooting death of 22-year-old Vasquez. Also in exchange for his guilty plea, 20-year-old Hicci, who was originally charged with first-degree murder, will be charged as a youthful offend­er which allows him to serve a maximum sentence of four years in prison and two years probation. lie has no prior criminal record. Hicci admitted he knew of the beating and kidnapping of Vasquez that occurred between 7 p.m. on Dec. 13 and continued until the early morning hours of Dec. 14, after which he ditched Vasquez's car, left at Hicci's apartment. Ricci also admitted to cleaning Vasquez's blood off the carpet, couch cushions and win­dows in his apartment and to the disposing of Vasquez's shoes. 
• OKLAHOMA STATE UNIVERSITY 
Wrestler faces manslaughter charges 
STILLWATER, Okla. 
An Oklahoma State University wrestler has been charged in the Jan. 4 death of a Pennsylvania boy. Pennsylvania state police charged first-year OSU student Brian Burrows with involuntary manslaughter and homi­cide by a vehicle, as well as four related summary offens­es, stated in an affidavit, according to published reports. Police estimated Burrows was driving a Porsche about 86 mph with the headlights off before his car crashed into a car driven by Londe Brewer. The posted speed limit is 55 mph. Brewer's 4-year-old son, Scott, was killed in the accident. He had been buckled in a child safety seat in the back of his mother's Oldsmobile sedan. The blow caused Brewer's car to split and pushed the rear section about 200 feet. The Porsche skidded 110 feet at about 70 mph before crashing. 
• UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN 
Hockey player changes attorneys 
ANN ARBOH, Mich. 

The preliminary hearing for Michigan hockey defenseman Chris Fox scheduled for today was postponed after Fox hired a new attorney. Fox was charged with assault to do bodily harm less than murder after he allegedly slashed an opponent in the face during a no-eheek hockey game last June. Assistant Oakland County prosecutor Paul Walton said the hearing was adjourned because Fox's n11w lawyer, Jose Fanego, is currently working on another case and requested the hearing be rescheduled no earlier than March 7. David Binkley, Fox's former attorney, would not comment on whether Fox changed attorneys to delay the hearing. The NCAA hockey season lasts until early April. Walton said that given the delay, it is not likely that the trial will take place before the end of the season. Fox would not comment on the details of the incident or whetlwr hn changed attorneys to delay the hearing. "I can't comment any further," Fox said. "I just feel (changing lawyers) is the best decision to be made at this time." Fox was playing in the championship game for a summer hockey league last June at the Detroit Skate Club in Bloomfield I !ills. 
• TEXAS A&M Medical school ditches MCAT 
AUSTIN, Texas 

Texas A&M officials announced Tuesday a new admis­sions program designed to bolster minority enrollment at its medical schools. The Texas A&M University System Partnership for Primary Care guarantees admission to any applicant who meets specific grade point average and course requirements. Although the Medical College Admissions Test is required for entrance into the majority of medical schools across the country, participants in A&M University's program aren't required to take the test. "It is my understanding that most med schools in the state of Texas do require the MCAT test, but they differ in how much weight they give the test in determining admis­sions," said Elvin Smith, associate dean of medicine at A&M University. "All of us in the medical community are­continually looking for better ways to choose students." 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather* forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
H L 

Friday {)-45-29 Saturday {)-37 27 Sund~y ~ 40 24 
~ 

Mond~y ~ 38 23 
; 

Tue~day ·" 1 -(f 40 26 
}'J~"'\f'--,......; '(r 
The AccuWeather~~~>torecast for noon, Friday, Feb. 6. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
30s 


FRONTS:  
~ COLD  ...a...a.... ............ WARM STATIONARY  
Pressure H L HIGH LOW  B fSSl SHOWERS RAIN  !TIJ 0 A T·STORMS FLURRIES  ~ SNOW  8 ICE  {) SUNNY  PT CLOUDY  CLOUDY  
VIR AllsOCISI&d Pft!I!JS  

Atlanta  55  32  Dallas  65  43  Miami  76  54  
4,Q,~AQ.Q (f  ~ u  Baltimore Boston  42 47  25 34  Denver Honolulu  38 90  13 78  New York Phoenix  48 66  23 45  
Showers T-storms  Rain  Flurries  Snow  Ice  Sunny  Pt. Cloudy  Cloudy  Chicago  33  19  Indianapolis 30  19  St. Louis  36  15  
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet  Columbus  44  18  Los Angeles 57  43  Wash. D.C.  40  32  


• MICHElE COSTELLO/ADRIAN CUEllAR 

Juniors focus on service to students, community 
By KRIST! KUTSCH "Our platform has two Assistant News Editor prongs of service," Cuellar said. "One prong is service to 
A government class project the students, yet there is also brought Michele Costello and service to the community. We Adrian Cuellar together last plan on providing service in all ynar, but the duo has shared facets of student life." similar goals and ideas about The team wants to imple­student government since the ment more interaction and two arrived at Notre Dame integration between every three years ago. group on campus, including 
CostPllo. a Pangborn junior political, social and minority aiming at the student body student groups. presidency, and Cuellar, a "We want to have a liaison Keough junior and vice presi­from every group that will dential candidate. share what meet with us on a regular they consider to be a commit­basis," said Costello. "We are nwnt to strong student leader­trying to draw clubs back into ship; their positive attitude is student government." evident in tlwir campaign slo­Costello and Cuellar would gan "Committed to Action." like to start a monthly lecture The two candidates have series which a particular served on an array of commit­group would co-sponsor with tees in student govr.rnment, as student government, as well as wr.ll as various lr.adership encourage more groups to par­positions across campus. ticipate in community service 
As a government major with activities. a concentration in the As co-president of Keough, l11~sburgh Program in Public Cuellar placed much emphasis Service. Costello claims an on community service. His affinity for leadership. and dorm was involved in the El plans to pursue a joint post­Buen Vecino program, which graduate degree in law and brings Notre Dame students public service. and Spanish-speaking families 
organizations to sponsor the dent government publicity and students. 
After graduate school. she in the South Bend community lunch program for a day. This social concerns commissions, The two feel that they are would like to return to her together. 
would allow the center to as sophomore class vice presi­hard-working, experienced,
home state of New York and The duo would like to invite 
spend the saved money on the dent, and as a member of the and they admire each others' participate in political life; different children from the additional building that it SUB entertainment committee. commitment to success. 
Costello worked for various Logan Center, El Buen Vecino 
recently purchased. In addition to serving as "Michele is set apart from New York congressmen during and numerous other service The team would also like to Keough's dorm president, the rest by her service to oth­
high school. organizations to campus for 
institute a poster program for Cuellar is also a member of the ers. She sets others' needs Cuellar. a government and monthly movie nights at the 1998 football season, with Pre-Professional Society, the above hers. She is a good rep­Spanish major from El Paso, Cushing Auditorium. all revenue donated to the Minority Pre-med Group and resentative of the student 
"Every year 300 to 400 stu­
Texas, has spent the past year Center for the Homeless. Notre Dame's SafeWalk pro­body," Cuellar said. 
as co-president of Keough Hall. dents go out into the communi­Costello shares a similar
Costello stressed that all gram."Being president [of a dorm] ty for service, yet we also want ideas on their platform are When he is not preoccupied image of Cuellar. "Adrian is is like being a brother to 200 to bring kids back to campus. feasible, and she and Cuellar with student government inter­really committed to helping
guys," he said. "Actually, being We think that by interacting guarantee that they will be ests, Cuellar likes to work out people on-campus and off­student body vice president is with students on the Notre 
implemented. in the Joyce Center, and has campus. He will be a greatserving the same function on a Dame campus, they [South "We generated the platform played Keough Hall interhall asset to the senate as a com­
'ar·-scalP " Bend children] will have some­ideas from the needs of the football. promise person."
·:'o::.tello aiso has a similar thing to shoot for," Cuellar students," Costello said. "We Costello used to play on the The two share ideas on ser­
terest in the students. "I said. 
know what the everyday stu­Notre Dame women's lacrosse vice and student involvement, came to this because I want to Another service goal for the 
dent wants. It's a benefit to team, and she also enjoys but also on fun. One of their serve the student body. In our Costello/Cueller ticket is a have students working for stu­going to movies with her ideas involves bringing Adam 
position we want to emphasize fund-raiser for the Center for dents." friends and attending dorm Sandler to campus for a come­that we can help everyone ... the Homeless. Every year, the Costello began her interest in retreats. dy show. 
we have the tools and the drive center spends between student government as a fresh­The two running mates have "We have talked to his to do the job," she said. $10,000 and $12,000 on sack man when she was involved in been working on their plat­[Sandler's] agent and to Notre The two havn put together a lunches for residents. 
Pangborn's dorm counciL form for the past few months, Dame Security. We have the platform that centers around Costello and Cuellar want to Since then she has served as a and think that they have resources to make this a reali­
service. get the 90 different campus 
commissioner for both the stu-addressed all the needs of the ty," she said. 

Kennard and Candelario drop out 
Junior Alfonso Kennard and sopho­more Walker Candelario dropped out of the race for student body president/vice president. 
The pair did not offer a reason for its with­drawal from the race. 


Committee woos voters with gifts 
By T.]. THORNTON Papa John's, Garfield's and Fun Tan, pedestrian entrance of parking lot C1 News Writer movie passes, two tickets to the between 1 p.m. and 5 p.m. (gate 10 of Georgetown vs. Notre Dame basket­the Joyce Center in case of bad 
After lackluster turnout in last ball game and a football signed by the weather) for both Monday's primary year's election, Notre Dame's student football coaches. and Thursday's runoff. government is actively trying to Voting -for either ticket -is the Additionally, off-campus seniors increase voter participation. only prerequisite for entering the raf­voting in Monday's primary who 
All polling places at Thursday's run­fle, and the winners will be answer a trivia question correctly will off will offer voters the chance to announced in The Observer on the qualify for a booklet full of coupons enter a raffle, the main prize for following day. donated by the senior class. These which is a Sony Playstation donated "The goal for this election is to get coupons will be redeemable during by student government. at least 75 percent turnout," said Lori Senior Week activities. 
"Last year's voter turnout of under Mrowka, also a member of the Mrowka explained that fewer than 5 50 percent indicated that we needed Election Committee. percent of off-campus residents voted to provide the students with more "The improved access and incen­in last year's runoff. and that confu­incentive to vote," said Nicole Borda tives for off-campus students should sion over whether seniors could vote of the Election Committee, which certainly help our numbers," she may have contributed to these dismal helped organize the initiative. added. numbers. Mrowka hopes these mea­
Other prizes including gift certifi­In addition to the regular polling sures will help turn-out. cates to Outback Steakhouse, place in LaFortune, off-campus resi­"Considering the controversies Spageddie's, T.G.I. Friday's, Wolfie's, dents will be able to vote near the 
see RAFFLE I page 4 

~----------------------------------~----------------------------------------------------------------­
page 4 
Cars 
continued from page 1 
"We really appreciate the student who reported
this. We try to keep tabs on all parts of eampus. but we can't b•~ everywhere at onee," Hurley said. "We dnpnnd on the community here at Notre Dame. Because this student took the time to report this, we wnrn able to prevent fur­ther damage." 
Officers retrieved a Sony AM!FM radio and a GE answer­ing maehinn from the thrne 17­ynar-olds and one 18-year-old. The vandals also damaged the 
Raffle 
continued from page 3 
which have surrounded the office of president and vice president in the past, it is especially important that people let their voices be heard," Borda said. "There's little point to student govern­ment if few people actually vote for representatives." 
The Election Committee begins its week of largess at Sunday's debate, where pizza 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 6, 1998 

vehicles by prying open the doors. 
The incident n1port has been forwarded to the St. Joseph County prosecutor's office. 
and soda will be provided to attendees. More free soft drinks will await those voting in Monday's primary; coupons for free fountain sodas at the Huddle Mart will be given away at each polling place. 
Voting takes place in the residence halls from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 5 to 7 
p.m. for on-campus students. 
Off-campus students can vote between 11 a.m. and 1 
p.m. in the Huddle and between 1 and 5 p.m. in the C1 parking lot. 

Available at: 

•The Scottsdale Mall 
• U.P. Mall 
• The Bookstore 
Alleluia! 

The Observer/Liz Lang 

T
he Folk Choir assembled members of the student body, and the Basilica of the Sacred Heart will be featured on the television program, "Easter at the University of Notre Da_me: A Celebration of Hope," to be aired on Easter Sunday on NBC affiliates nationwide. The program w1ll be taped Saturday, March 21. The program will include music written by the Cistercian monks of Gethseman1 Abbey 1n ~entucky, the Our Father usually sung by the Folk Choir at the Basilica's 11 :45 Sunday Mass, the Celtic AllelUia and a variety of sacred songs from Africa and Latin America. 



Campus Ministry Events 

OFFICE OF 
CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hesburgh Library 631-7800 112 Badin Hall 631-5242 Basilica Offices 631-8463 Website: 
www.nd.edu./ -ministryI 
ND Hockey Feb. 6 vs. BGsu 
& 

Sat. Feb. 7 vs. Fel.Li..s State 
Both Games 7 pm 
Friday-Saturday, February 6-7, St. Joe Hall 
Freshmen Retreat 
Saturday, February 7, Mary's Solitude 
RCIA Retreat 
Sunday, Feb 8, 1:30pm, Keenan-Stanford 
Misa en Espanol 
Of special interest: . AIDS Education Week Activities, Stepan Center Friday, February 6, 7:00-9:00 pm ­Memorial Quilt Opening Ceremonies and Open Viewing Saturday and Sunday, February 7 & 8, 12:00 noon-5:00pm­Memorial Quilt Open Viewing Sunday, February 8, 4:00 pm ­
Memorial Quilt Closing Ceremonies . University Village Volunteers Needed: Two student volunteers to assist at University Village, the 
Married Student Housing, in a "Parents' Time-Out" program that meets on Wednesdays from 9:00 am.-11 :30 am. This ministry would entail working with two mother's to plan activi ties for children ages 1-4 and assist in general child supervi­SIOn. Please call John or Sylvia Dillon @ 1-5242. 

1\len's Swinuning Sat. l"'eb 7th llaJD Rolfs Aqttatic Center 
Track: l"'eb. 6th-7th 1\leyo Invitational 6pm }"ri. & 10:30am Sat. Lofttts 
-~------~------------------------~ 

• NATIONAl NEWS BRIEFS 
Hospital shooting kills 1 

ASSOCIATED PRESS the first in the railroad's 113-year history.
WASHINGTON 
RIO DE JANEIRO, Brazil "Our criminals are get­A gunman opened fire inside the It began as a summer ting bolder and changingWashington Cancer Institute Thursday, 
day's adventure for 85 their modus operandi," said killing a professional boxer who was under­exchange students: a train Lt. Col. Jose Luiz Sampaiogoing cancer treatment and wounding five ride up Rio's green hills to of Rio's state police. "We're people. The gunman waited in the lobby of 
the famous Christ statue trying to change with 
the cancer institute until the victim, Reuben overlooking this city by the them." 
Bell. 24. an outpatient at the institute, 
bay. Police are combing the arrived about 11 a.m. The gunman then It ended in terror, at the woods and the hillside 
began shooting, police said. "It appears the mercy of robbers who slums near Corcovado, he 
deceased was the intended target," said blocked the tracks, took said, and from now on, a 
police spokesman Sgt. Joe Gentile. The gun-over the train car for sever­police officer will be sta­. man "stood over his intended victim and 
al minutes, cleaned out tioned in all trains at the 
fired multiple times." Bell, who lived in their valuables at gunpoint station. · Washington, was a promising middleweight 
and vanished in the lush Rio Mayor Luiz Paulo 
lighter who had been diagnosed with colon forest. Conde tried to control the cancer Jan. 4. Bell, the subject of a feature For Rio officials, it was a damage. He invited the vic­story in The Washington Post on Saturday, public r~lations nightmare, tims to the City Palace on had been acquitted last spring of a first­
bound to add to the city's Thursday and personally
degree murder charge. Among those suffer­reputation for lawlessness. apologized, then invited ing minor injuries in the shooting were a 77­"Violence can happen everyone to lunch at a bar­year-old volunteer who was shot in the leg anywhere in the world. But becue restaurant. 
and a 74-year-old patient who suffered a 
this was of an extraordi­Rio's secretary of 
graze wound to the head. An armed hospital 
nary audacity," said tourism, Gerard 
security guard was within 100 feet of the Wilmar Garcia Barbosa, Bourgeaisseau, promised to shooting but did not have time to react, offi­governor of the Rotary Club make good on all the lost cials said. 
that brought the students possessions. "That's the to Brazil. least we can do," he said.
real," said Leacordie just anything. They were
Clinton asks for free air time 
Most of the passengers on On Thursday, the number
Gendron of Le Mans, choosy.
the Wednesday afternoon of passengers on the cog
for political candidates 
France. "I was very afraid. "There were people who
train were in the Rotary railway reportedly was off
A lot of people were cry­gave them their watch, and
Club's exchange program, by 40 percent. Brazilian
ing." if they dido't like it, they
teen-agers sent to Brazil media predicted the inci­
WASHINGTON 
Methodically, the gang would give it back," said
from around the world for dent would worsen Rio's
President Clinton, 
went through the two cars, 16-year-old Bryan Roche,
a year of study. They were image as a violent city. 
expanding on his State of taking cash, credit cards, from Hazleton, Pa. 
on midterm break, and had "Lesson from Rio dethe Union message, asked jewelry, cameras, watches, In less than 10 minutes, it 
been in Rio for just 24 Janeiro," read a headline
the Federal 
passports and airline tick­was over. The victims were
hours. in one Rio newspaper.
Communications 
ets. taken to the Special Police
The ride up was smooth, "Postcard stained," readCommission on Thursday "I was sitting there and Station for Tourists to file
the view at the top breath­another.
to require that broadcast­
they asked for my camera complaints and list their
taking. But on the way But the Rotary Club stillers give political candi­and I hesitated, so he took losses. Rio is no stranger to
down, the engineer found plans to bring anotherdates both free air time out a gun and pointed at violent crime. Warring
the track blocked with group of 96 students to Rioand even deeper discounts Clinton my head," said Tara Cook, drug gangs battle openly in 
rocks and the lid of a water next week -for another
on ads than currently 
18, of Moline, Ill. the hillside slums above
tank. When he got out to visit to the Christ statue,available. In a letter to FCC Chairman Bill Some passengers tried to posh lpanema beach dis­
clear the debris, a half­club governor Barbosa
Kennard, Clinton wrote: "I call upon the 
sit on their cash or slip it trict, pinning residents in
dozen men jumped out of said.
commission to develop policies as soon as down their pants, but the their homes.
the woods and climbed "We've never had prob­
possible which ensure that broadcasters pro­thieves soon caught on. Abductions by kidnappers
aboard. lems like this," he said.
vide free and discounted air time for candi­
"They said if you try to who use their hostages'
Each carried a gun or a "The impact was more a
dates to educate voters." In his State of the hide your money we'll kill ATM cards have gotten so
knife, and they announced scare than anything else." 
Union address on Jan. 27, the president 
everyone in the train, so we common that police sug­
the stickup first in Brazil's The victims also tried toasked the FCC to require that broadcasters gave them everything we gested limiting withdrawals 
native Portuguese, then in take it in stride. 
provide either free air time or cheaper air had," said Soren Bindesboll to $100 between 10 p.m.
Spanish. "I love Brazil," saidtime, but not both. The commission is now 
of Billund, Denmark. "It and 6 a.m.
"At first I thought it was a Bindesboll. "People likedrafting proposals dealing with both options. 
seemed very professional." But police were
joke, but when I saw the that shouldn't spoil your
Clinton envisions the requirements as part of The robbers didn't want impressed by this robbery,
guns I knew it was for stay." finance system. One reason elections have skyrocketed in price -and fund-raising has raised suspicion -is that candidates are spending heavily on broadcast advertising. In his State of the Union speech, Clinton envi­sioned providing free or cut-rate television time for candidates who observe spending limits voluntarily. 
an overall drive to reform the campaign 
Nasdaq:-12.46 1676.90 

-3.54 
NYSE: 522.97 -0.61 
S&P 500: 1003.54 
-3.36

8117.25 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
~0Ml!6tll:t IICKEB ~ CU&t:is:it; s(i&lt:i I!BICt; 
DAI El INC·ADR DAlEY 69.23 4.50 11.00 UROQUEST MWIC~L UROQ 52.63 l.ZS 3.625 MOBILE MINI·WTS MINIW 45.46 .938 3.00 NWPHARM INC·WTS NPRMW 42.86 .750 2.50 PHARMACOPEIA INC PCOP 41.60 6.50 22.125 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 
BRIT BIOTECH-ADR 8BIOY 30.44 7.00 16.00 RADIANISYSTEMS RADS 25.96 6.75 19.25 REA LAX SOFTW-ADR RLAXY 25.89 3.63 10.38 SAC TECHNOLOGIES SACM 25.00 2.00 6.00 WORLDTAI.K COMM WILK 25.00 1.00 3.00 

page 6 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 6, 1998 
Liaison 
continued from page 1 
tion. Irwin Press, anthropology 
professor at Notre Dame, recog­
nized this communication void, 
and combined it with his stu­
dent's interest in medicine. The 
result was the SLP. a program 
which allowed 14 pre-med 
Notre Dame students to work 
four hours per week in the 
Elkhart ElL In addition to 
hands-on experience, the stu­
dents attended class and com­
pletnd reading assignments for 
<u~ademic credit. 
Sinee its inception 14 ytlars 

ago, the program has evolved 
into its present state, in which 
students arc paid instead of 
receiving classroom credit. The 
SLP otTers three different sub­
programs: the summer pro­
gram, the winter program and 
the volunteor program. 
The summer program accepts 

three students, said Jeanne 
V<mputten. case manager for 
the Elkhart emergency room. 
Two of these students work 
three days per week, and the 
third works once per week and 
serves as a backup for the other 
students. 
Although the summer and the 

winter programs both have 
application processes, the sum­
mer program is mueh more 
competitive, Vanputten said. 
Students who speak Spanish are encouraged to apply for the summer program, because oftentimes Spanish-speaking factory workers come to the emergency room, and many do not speak English, said Vanputten. 
Eight students participate in the winter program, which extends from August until May. These students work Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays; each student works an average of two shifts per month. 
The third program is much more flexible; volunteers work whenever they are available. 
Although the student workers do not have to be Notre Dame students, the majority of liaisons attend Notre Dame. 
"Student must have an inter­Bst in the medical profession," Vanputten said. 'They are usu­ally majoring in nursing, social work or pre-medicine." 
Janelle LaBine, a junior pre­med and soeiology major who hopes to attend medieal school, learned of the SLP during a con­ference with her pre-med advi­had," LaBine explained. sor. Father Joseph Walter. "People like to know how much 
"I was looking for experience longer they have to wait, and it in a hospital," LaBine said. helps calm them when you can "Prior to this [SLP) I had not answer their questions." had a lot of exposure in hospi­As well as facilitating commu­tals. I love interacting with peo­nication in the ER, student ple and liaisons also 
hearing peo-observe ple's con-'THE STUDENTS ARE GREAT. some med­cerns." W ical proce­
Listening E REALLY APPRECIATE AND 
dures. is an impor-DEPEND ON THEM. WE CAN'T GO "I have 
tant ~a~t of OliT AND HELP EVERYONE SO THEY 
seen stitch­the liaison ' ing on occa­program. REAllY TAKE THE PRFS5URE OFF US.' s i o n , " 
s a i d 
Vanputten. 
"Students 
must be 
able to listen 
to patient's concerns and 
answer their questions," she 
said. 
"Their job is communicating 
with the physician registered in 
the emergency room and relay­
ing information to the patient's 
family in the waiting room. The 
student really functions as a 
patient advocate," she added. 
"Students can really learn valuable information by talking with patients. The program allows them to be better med­ical providers," Vanputten said. 
Gabe Bosslet, junior pre-med student liaison, also stressed the importance of talking to patients. 
"The program is not only real­ly good experience in a medical setting, but it is also a good way to learn how to talk to patients," he said. 
The Elkhart emergency room has 22 rooms, and the liaisons are "responsible for making sure the patients are comfort­able," said Bosslet. "We call rel­atives that need to be notified, arrange rides home for the patients and relay the status of a patient to his/her family wait­ing in the waiting room." 
"When I get to work, I check the charts of patients, filling in their names and information. I see how long they have been waiting and what tests they've 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
oUsed books bought and sold 

•25 
Categories of Books 


•25,000 
Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

•Out-of-Print 
search service: $2.00 

•Appraisals 
large and small 


Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 
Bosslet said. 
"Also, one 
LEA LIRNER night an 
ER NunsH older men­
tally handi­capped man came to the EH with broken jaw ... he had been walking home when he was mugged. I felt really bad for him. I made sure he had water and I called his care taker." 
LaBine has seen a much more serious medical procedure. 
"One women had a heart aneurysm," LaBine explained. "The doctors tried to revive her with shock therapy, but she died." 
"It was really shocking. The whole family was there and they were overwhelmed with 
grief," she said. "I was doing 
what I could, but I was not 
experienced with that." LaBine 
added that seeing death first­
hand was very impacting. 
Amidst the tragedy and confu­
sion of the emergency room. 
appreciation that patients and 
nurses have for the student 
liaisons radiates. 

"The students are great. We really appreciate and depend on them. We can't go out and help everyone, so they really take the pressure ofT us," Lea Lirner, an emergeney room nurse, said. 
Bosslet agreed, "People will go out of their way to hunt you down and say 'thanks.' That's really gratifying." 
"Older patients really appreci­ate our help," Vanputten added. "Old ladies really thank me and appreciate me." 
Although the students enjoy the experience, their interaction with patients has also strength­ened their interest in medicine, they said. 
"This experience has really solidified my reason to be a doc­tor," Bosslet said. 
Vanputten agreed saying, "Talking to patients has made me realize that I want a long­term interacting relationship with my patients." 
'Kindness' week at Saint Mary's 
Special to The Observer 

The Health Service of Saint Mary's College is sponsoring Random Acts of Kindness Week from Feb. 9 to 13. This week is dedicat­ed to making the world a better place through small acts of caring. 
Students and employees alike will be encouraged to spread kindness through various displays and mail­ers. 
All residence hall lobbies will have a blank paper dis­played where everyone is encouraged to write down acts of kindness shown to them that they greatly appreciated. 
All departments will be mailed suggestions on how to create a caring environ­ment for their employees. 

JTUDENT GOVERNMENT DEBATE 
ALL JTUDENTI ARE INVITED TO ATTEND THE JTUDENT GOVERNMENT DEBATE WHICH WILL BE HELD ON IUNDAY FEBRUARY 8, 1998 AT 7:00 P.M. IN THE lAFORTUNE BALLROOM 
FEATURING GUEJT M.C. NATHAN CARR 
(IOME OF YOU MAY REMEMBER HIM FOR HII CHRII FARLEY ANTIU AT THE GEORGIA TECH PEP RALLY) 
PIZZA AND JODA WILL BE JERVED!!!!! 
11111111111 
Dan R. Hill Attorney DUI, immigration, contracts · South Bend 246-9999  


• 
GRAVITY Hft.t 
STARTS PLAYING @ 10:30 
50/50-RAFFLE FREE FOOD GIVE-AWAYS TO FIRST 500 
JUST ANOTHER REASON WHY YOU LOVE ... 
THE CLASS OF 1998

Friday, February 6, 1998 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Notre Dame, Our Mother ...
COBA hosts first Ethics Week 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
Associate News Editor 
The College of Business Administration will host the first annual Ethics Week from Monday until next Friday. 
"The idea for this week is to encourage discussion of ethics in classes for professors that would not normally address or are uneasy about addressing it in their classes," said Ken Milani. professor of accountan­cy, who helped to organize the week. 
Ethie.s Week was created after the loss of the professor that was most involved in the teaching of ethics in the busi­ness school. 
Professor John Ilouk died in December 1996. "He was really the point man in the position of teaching of 
business ethics," Milani said. "A group of faculty got together right after his death and tried to determine how we could replace John. The answer was that we, of course, could not replace him. But the idea for this week sort of came from that discussion." 
Business professors of every discipline will focus on ethics and how it relates to their par­ticular subject all throughout the week. 
The week begins on Monday and Tuesday with faculty work­shops in 339 COBA. "We have been preparing for this for a long time," said Milani. "We have had workshops since September, so we are not just throwing these profs into the water and telling them to swim." 
Public events begin on 
Wednesday with a video pre­sentation entitled, "Business Ethics: The Bottom Line," which will be shown at noon in 399 COBA. It will be followed by a discussion session. 
On Thursday, Carolyn Woo, the dean of the College of Business Administration, will give a presentation on "What Ethics Week means to the College of Business Administration" at 12:30 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium in COBA 
The week will culminate in a social at 2 p.m. in the atrium of COBA. Refreshments will be provided. 
"In coming years we plan on making the closing event a well-known speaker or a panel of business professors," Milani said. "But this year we decided to keep it internal." 
Bridget's bust to be discussed on WSND 


Observer Staff Report 
Student senator Matt Szabo, vice president of Student Affairs Bill Kirk and South Bend Police Sgt. John Williams will appear on both the "NO Weekly" and "Ideas and Issues" shows on WSND-FM 88.9 on Friday and Saturday at 5:30 p.m. 
My Best F ~ieV\d 's WeddiV\g 7:30 p.m. Satw·•day FebrtAary 7th at t--laggar Parlor Spoi'\Sol'ed by SlAB  dents that were caught should be punished by the University for their actions. "It was a pretty heated debate. They [Szabo, Kirk and Williams] had three very differ­ent perspectives on the issue," said Joe Wiltberger, a WSND newscaster, who, with news director Nicole Swartzentruber, produced the debate. "The issue of underage drinking and. social life also came to the front of the discus­sion. This is a very interesting show this week." "Ideas and Issues" is a pub­lic-service show that airs every Saturday at 5:30p.m.  
······-­American Cancer Society 1~ 404 S. Columbia, Suite 250 South Bend, IN 46601 ~ --.---.-..........--;; Phone: 234-4097 DAFFODiL Fax: 234-4515 D·A·Y·S Dear Friend: The winter chill may still be in the air, but its not too soon to be thinking ofspring .flowers and (of course) Daffodil Days! That s right, its time once again for the American Cancer Society to begin selling bunches of daffodils. For five dollars you can purchase a bunch often daffodils. For an additional $3 you can also buy a slender glass vase that is just perfect for your bouquet. The proceeds from our Annual Dr~[fodil Days will go to the American Cancer Society for use in cancer research, educa­tion, programs, and patient services here in St. joseph County. Bring the sign of Spring and the .flower ofhope into your business or home. You can mail orfax your order. Please note payment options below. Please call our office at 234-4097 with any questions. THANK YOU JiOR YOUR CON11NUED SUPPORT Sincerely, Mary Huszar, Daffodil Day Volunteer Chair  
I want to order___bunches of daffodils to be: _____delivered to the address below _____picked up by me at the American Cancer Society office. _____my contribution of$ to fight cancer is enclosed Name Company___________ Address.________ City_____Zip_______ Phone# Delivery Instructions  
Payment Method: Card#·----=--------­In advance Check__MasterCard__ Visa_ Expires,___________ Day of delivery Check__Cash__ Phone#___________ MasterCard Visa Signature  

The trio will discuss the fate of those students cited at Bridget McGuire's Filling Station last Friday night. 
The discussion, which was taped last night, highlights the question of whether the stu­
---~--­

Friday, February 6, 1998
page 8 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
AIDS 
continued from page 1 
born, doctors diagnose.d him with hemophilia, a blood clot­ting disorder that would pre­vent him from playing contact sports and force him to live a generally protected life. 
But soon after his diagnosis, doctors told White-Ginder about an experimental drug, called Factor VIII, that could be instrumental in treating Hyan's hemophilia. 
"My son had just been born with a disease, but already there was something to treat it. I thought, boy, was !lucky." 
But White-Ginder would question how lucky she was when, in 1984, Ryan was get­ting sick more and more often. On Dec. 6, his 13th birthday, he told his mother that he was so tired he could hardly get off the school bus. 
Three days later, Hyan devel­oped a fever of 105 degrees. The doctors said he had either tuberculosis, cancer or AIDS; they soon ruled out the first two illnesses. Whitc-Ginder could not believe what she had heard. 
"I thought, how could Ryan be the first [non-homosexual or drug addict)?" White-Ginder said. "All I knew about AIDS was that you died from it." 
As word got out that Hyan had AIDS, hospital workers placed contamination signs around his room, and some workers refused to aid in his care. When Whi1e-Ginder told Hyan about his disease the day after Christmas, his first ques­tion was whether or not his nurse, Laura, knew that he had AIDS. 
"Hyan asked if his nurse knew because he read in Time Magazine that health care workers had refused to treat AIDS. I don't know very many 13-year-olds that read Time, but Ryan was one of them," White-Ginder explained, drawing laughter from the standing-room-only audience. 

At the time of his diagnosis, doctors estimated Ryan would live three to six months. White-Ginder considers it a nothing less than a miracle that he lived another five-and­a-half years. She attributes his ability to surpass his life expectancy to the tremendous inner peace that she says radi­ated from him throughout his entire life. 
The day after his diagnosis, "the Lord just came and spoke to me. lie told me I had noth­ing to fear and that I'd be taken care of," said White­Ginder, quoting her son. 
Ryan's determination and strength was again put to the test when he wanted to return to school in Kokomo, Ind. It took months before the school district would agree to allow him even in the building, and his return was marred by derogatory epithets written all over his locker and books. 
Kokomo citizens protested outside the school with signs that read "Students Against AIDS," and this treatment soon caused the Whites to move to Cicero. 
White-Ginder was very thankful to the people who supported Hyan during his sickness, even before the gen­eral public knew very much about the disease. The most celebrated of his supporters included Michael Jackson and Elton John, who helped fund the Whites' move to Cicero and were by Ryan's side during his 
final days. 

A tearful John, with the dying Ryan by his side and Michael Jackson on the phone, said, "With all the money in this room, we can't bring this boy back to life," White-Ginder recalled. 
White-Ginder also explained how her role as spokeswoman for AIDS issues is one that she has taken on reluctantly. 
"This was not something I felt comfortable doing, but it needed to be done. It was not something I'd necessarily go through again." 
But White-Ginder also said that her crusade for more edu­cation about AIDS has not been without rewards. 
Sens. Edward Kennedy and Orrin Hatch, who asked White­Ginder to support the Ryan White Comprehensive AIDS Resource Act, "got me involved in a cause I truly believed in, but [it was] also pay-back for everyone who had done so much for me," she said 
White-Ginder is enthusiastic about helping other families who have been affected by AIDS. 
"I knew the struggles. I knew the pain. I knew the loss because I faced it too. 
"Our story is just one of thousands. There are many more that need to be told," White-Ginder said. 
At the end of the lecture, a teary-eyed White-Ginder told the audience, many of whom were also crying. how she can continue speaking about such a personal and emotionally draining experience. 
"How can I go on doing what I do? Because I know I'll see Ryan some day, and he won't have hemophilia and he won't have AIDS," White-Ginder said. 
Mary's begins 
•
symposium 
=~~r 

rent chair of the department of religious studies, will pre­sent "Wine and Wisdom: pay trib­Imbibing Truth frcfm Aquinas at Thomas' Summa." Incandela symposiu·m· became chair ofthe depart­theologian ment of religious studies in 
1996. 

"The teachings of St. Thomas are the reason behind everything we do here. He is the patron saint of Catholic education," Incandela said. 
Aquinas taught that all gain a great truth leads to God. and that to know about when people seek truth they has had such Jearn. Catholic colleges have on the advocated the validity of the of the West, interdependent relationship na1~tu~t1hir on the phi-between faith and reason 
theology of from their foundation. 
said. Holly Arends, a senior phi· ,."~..'"'•••a.ut•u Hank, an losophy and religious studies alumna. of Saint Mary's d"Ouble major, and 1996 
·· C91le~.~/:'1i endowe-d the alumna Janet Kelly will Aquinas Chair in recognition speak together on "Thomas ofAquinas, her intellectual on Friendship." 
•·· niento.t<, ..• "Janet and I are going to 
·· Egan will present "Thomas focus on Thomas' teachings on s;Eucharist · as with application to practical F~·ttgiyepess," He has lee~ student life. We .hope to gen­ttired throughout the United erate discussion from audi­States, and most recently in ence members and bring the England, Ireland and Italy. subject matter down to He founded the Center for earth," said Arends. Spirituality while serving as The presentations will the of the department begin at 10:30 a.m. and the of rel ous studies from last event will begin at 5 p.m. 
996. Egan's new Father Thomas O'Meara will ~ai>JPOiiitment will be formally preside and serve as the 
d at the sympo-homilist at Eucharist, which will take place in Regina Chapel. 
SAINT-GOBAIN "'"'" 4tkiZ#ABRASIVES Technical Sales Representatives Plant Process Engineers NORTON COMPANY, a $1.5 billion international manufacturer of engineered materials, and a subsidiary of Compagnie de Saint Gobain, one of the top 100 industrial companies in the world, has a need for entry-level Technical Sales Representatives and Plant Process Engineers. For our Technical Sales Representative positions, we are looking for engineering majors or business majors. Interested students should be challenged by not only selling highly-technical industrial abrasive products to a diverse customer base ranging from automotive and aerospace companies to sports equipment manufacturers, but in solving difficult application-related problems. Almost without excep­tion, every product we use in our daily lives is touched at some point in the manufacturing process by abrasive products. For the Plant Process Engineering positions, we are looking for engineering majors who would be interested in solving process-related engineering problems in our plants in Massachusetts, Texas and New York. Selected students will have an opportunity to work on meaningful issues that will materially impact our business. To learn more about these promising opportunities, please join one of Norton's Business Unit Managers John Tartaglione (BS Aerospace Engineering, ND Class of 1977, MBA, HBS 1989), and Sandy Tartaglione, Human Resource Manager, at the company's informational reception: Thesday, February 10, 1998 7:30 -8:30 PM Alumni Room, Morris Inn Interviews will be conducted on February 11, 1998. Visit the Saint Gobain home page at www.saint-gobain.com to learn more about Saint-Gobain. NORTON COMPANY is an equal opportunity employer. We offer excellent starting salary and a flex benefits package. Interested stu­dents should sign up for our open interviews with the Career and Placement Services office.  

Friday, February 6, 1998 The Observer • NEWS page 9 
SMC to sponsor forum for women's networking 
By MICHELLE PRIMEAU 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary's College Office of Multicultural Affairs will sponsor "Discovering Possibilities a Life Exploration forum for Women" this Saturday from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. 
Female students from SMC, Notre Dame, IUSB and Ball State will attend the forum. 
The event will be divided into workshops and an exploration room which will have opportu­nities for participants to net­work with community organiza­tions, indus try representatives, and graduate school programs. 
The idea came from a lunch discussion that included Maria Oropeza, interim director of Multicultural Affairs, and Monique Dozier, project coordi­nator. 
"Saint Mary's definitely helps women prepare themselves for the real world, but we wanted a chance for students to interact with women of diverse profes­sions and backgrounds," Oropeza said. 
The planning committee began meeting in October to prepare sessions and line up speakers, including Saint Mary's president Marilou Eldred and many SMC alum­nae. 
"This is a unique conference because a lot of students were involved in pulling it together," committee member Karla Flores said. "This is a good experience for us to learn more about our community and the opportunities that there are for students." 
The exploration room will be one of the highlights of the events with community repre­sentatives from Memorial Hospital, La Casa de Amistad, NAACP, Legal Services of St. Joseph County, and the Center for the Homeless. 
Proctor and Gamble, Ernst & Young, and Allstate Insurance will be among the industry rep­resentatives. Graduate pro­grams from Notre Dame, the University of Iowa, DePaul University and the University of Michigan are also scheduled to attend. 
Workshops include "Bridging the gap between interest and career," "Politics in the work­place," and "Women and lead­ership," and will be lead by facilitators with expertise in each specific area. 
"It's important that students can learn from varied experi­ences," Dozier stated. "That's what the real world is all about." 
Questions about the forum can be answered by the Office of Multicultural Affairs at 284­4723. 
Making plans ... 
The Observer/Patrick Quigley 

In order to avoid other distractions, an architecture student listens to music while working on a project. 

Clinton unveils 'High Hopes for College' initiative 
By STEVE LOTT ing and other support to guide gram called the Early doubt that if they do their part, cratic representative from The Eagle (American U.) them to a college education Identification Program since they can, in fact, go on to col­Pennsylvania,who patterned it and brighter futures, the White 1987 and has been "highly suc­lege." after programs in Philadelphia WASHINGTON House said. cessful." The White House said Clinton said that it is impor­that provide disadvantaged stu­
President Clinton unveiled Under Clinton's proposal, col­the President's initiative has tant that students and their dents with mentors and tuition the "High Hopes for College" leges across the country would been endorsed by 300 college community work together to assistance. initiative Wednesday which he form partnerships with middle presidents. send every student to college. "These young people are the hopes will begin steering disad­and junior-high schools that Clinton's fiscal 1999 budget He said that the program will future of our country, and the vantaged students toward col­have large concentrations of announced earlier this week allow children to work with choices that they make in their lege as early as the sixth grade. children from low-income fami­allots $140 million and an churches, local businesses and lives will either tax our society 
"I was in an environment lies. The president said he additional $70 million to be community groups to receive or benefit our society," Fattah which made it very difficult for hopes to reach more than 1 phased in during 2000 and information on the significance said. me to fail," Clinton said. million students at 3,000 mid­2001 for the High Hopes pro­of attending college. The president was introduced "That's the environment I want dle schools over the next five gram, which he called the lat­He also said the program will by Fabiola Tafolla, a 22-year for every child in America." years. est of efforts that have "opened also provide support services old Latina woman who recently 
The "High Hopes for College" The president of George the doors to college wide" to when students begin their col­graduated from Mount Holyoke program seeks to pair children Mason University, Alan Merten, more Americans. lege search and application College and participated in a from disadvantaged families said that the Fairfax, Va., uni­Clinton said families need to process. similar mentorship program in with mentors, tutors, counsel-versity has had a similar pro-understand college is afford­"Trained mentors and role California. 
., 

NoTRE DAME 
LEPRECHAUN 
averages 30 students. 
"It was a huge success," Tafolla said. "President Clinton's initiative provides 
hope to students who never would have thought about 
Sat., Feb. 14 

9 a.m.-4 p.m. attending college." 

Information Meeting 
Thurs., Feb. 26 -6:30 p.m. Gym 1, Joyce Center 
able regardless of their income. The program would provide families with a "21 Century Scholar" certificate, which is an early notification of their federal financial aid eligibility. 
Clinton said this is crucial, "so they will never have any models will help children pick challenging courses, tutor them when they need extra help, and take them on college visits and other academic field trips," Clinton said. 
The program was the devel­oped by Chaka Fattah, a demo-
In junior and senior high school, Tafolla was a student in the UC-Berkeley Academic Talent Development Program. She said the program high­lights summer stays at Berkeley while mentees attend classes at the University. Tafolla said the program start­ed with one student mentee in 1987 and now the program 


Bus. Adm. Bldg. MBA wingjrm. 162 

... in today's marketplace 
A seminar for men and women who want to make a difference. No matter what your po­sition, Christianity can make you more effec­tive in providing leadership that matters. 
Register at MBA office, room 276 COBA. $25 ($35 at door), STUDENTS: $5.00. (Includes lunch). Or call Prof. Jack Ruhe, 284-4510 (w), 259-5986 (h). 
Save the planet: 
Recycle The Observer 

page 10 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Friday, February 6, 1998 
Handbook eases Anti-affirmative action bill narrowly passes in Arizona 
By ZACH THOMAS jected to the same applica­which any student may uti­
By KHYBER OSER according to a news release. 
Arizona Daily Wildcat (U. Arizona) tion process as everyone else, lize regardless of minority
Daily Collegidn (Penn Stare) Complete with checklists, 
said Likins, who spoke status. 
question·and·answer exer · 
TUCSON, Ariz. against the proposal before "We will not be affected,
STATE COLLEGE, Penn. photos taken at the Uni. 
A hotly-contested proposal the Senate Government because we are open to any
Imagine a white student at and quotes from minority st 
that would stamp out affir­Reform Committee yesterday student," said Salomon 
the University of Ghana. dents, the guidebook resembl13s 
mative action in state-funded morning. Baldenegro, the UA assistant 
Walking around campus or an interactive "how-to" book. It 
programs could slice some Carol Thompson, who dean of Hispanic student 
sitting in the classrooms, it was released nationwide and itt 
UA minority student services heads the UA's Office of affairs. 
would be a struggle for the stu­Canada in mid..November'~ 
and university recruitment Minority Student Services, Baldenegro said the pro­
dent to blend in, fit in or feel Levey said. L > 
policies if it becomes a law, said she was still trying to posal could also affect some 
comfortable. The guide addresses broad 
university officials said yes­assess the proposal's possible private minority scholarships 
This is an example given by subjects that apply to all 
terday. impact. and fee waivers that receive 
Marc Levey, a principal author minorities such as study skills, 
The bill, which narrowly "If you look purely at the matching funds from the UA. 
of "How to Succeed on a dating, health concerns a11d 
passed a Hepublican-domi­words and you look at the eli­Those matching funds 
Majority Campus: A Guide for racism, But it also cc;mta.t~l:l 
nated Senate committee in a gibility requirements for could be cut off, although the 
Minority Students," of what chapters devoted specifically*to 
party-line vote yesterday, minority student services, private money would remain 
minority students often experi­the experiences of international 
would put a referendum on there definitely would be unaffected. 
ence at a predominantly white students and lesbian, gay and 
the November ballot to let some impact," Thompson Likins agreed and said, "My
institution. bisexual students of color. ···· 
voters decide whether state­said. understanding is this legisla­
Levey, senior diversity plan­"It's a book that hasn't p~~ri 
funded programs can take Students must be a mem­tion would not impact the use 
ning analyst at the University, written before.'' said MiChael 
into account race, sex, color, ber of a minority group or of private moneys." 
said the pressures and scrutiny Blanco, director of the 
ethnicity or n ational origin. receive need-based financial The UA Attorneys' Ol'lice is 
attached to being a minority Multicultural Resource Center 
University of Arizona aid to utilize resources at the also looking into the bill's 
student can make the adjust­at the University. "There is no 
President Peter Likins said Minority Student Services possible impact. and interim 
ment to college even more diffi· other book that I know of that 
specific consequences of office. General Counsel Tom 
cult for incoming freshman. is a comprehensive guid~mQ.,Q. 
what he called a "sweeping" According to Thompson, 87 Thompson, who is heading
"You get tags or associations the experiences of minoritY stu­
proposal remained unclear, percent of freshmen minority up the inquiry, said the 
that are often negative and dents attending a predominant­
but an impact on the UA is students participate in at investigation was just begin­
false," Ltwey said. "Many times, ly white institution." 
inevitable. least one program through ning and spoke only in gener­
minority students think about Blanco and Terrell Jones, 
"It would seem to prohibit her office. alities. 
themselves as different: It associate vice proyost for ed~: 
encouraging the diversity of "It would be a major "The university has a num­
never leaves their minds." cational equity' are the other 
applicant pools," Likins said, impact not to be able to pro­ber of federally mandated 
The guidebook's goal is to principal authors. · bur< 
adding that UA recruiters vide specific academic ser­affirmative action programs
offer successful strategies for Joseph Selden, director of 
often target minorities as vices to these students," she that probably wouldn't be 
making the most of minority multicultural affairs for the 
candidates to be students or said. "We are all trying to get affected," he said. "There are 
students' experiences at pre­College of Communicatio11~. 
employees. a good assessment of that as a number of retention-based 
dominantly white schools, said he read the book and 
"You make a concerted we do not want to do a dis­programs that would be 
Levey said. All three principal would recommend it to stu~ 
effort to reach out for the service to the students." affected that would affect our 
authors are diversity officials at dents, faculty and staff. 
minorities," Likins said. "We The possible effects on the ability to maintain and pro­
the University and the book is "It's got a little bit of some­
go to regions in the state Office of Minority Student mote diversity on campus."
based on more than 100 inter­thing for everyone,'' Selden 
where people are less likely Services do not hold for lie added that some pro­
views with minority students said. "[The guide} is something 
to apply." minority student resource grams designed to aid minor­
and minority student coun­everyone ought to add to th~ir 
After the recruitment stage, centers, like the Native ity students in academic 
selors across the country, reading list." ;w 
however, minorities are sub-American Student Center, trouble also might be cut. 
Sponsored by the Office of Multicultural Student Affair) J.U.B., Student Affairs, AA§A., LG AliG"ZG, the Department of Communication ana Tbeatre, Student Aetivities, and the NAACP This Saturday, February 7th see and meet a star of the hit NBC series'Benjamin Bratt Law and Order and his brother writer and director ofPeter Bratt ''Follow Me llome'' 7 p.m. in the Library Auditorium with Discussion and Reception to follow Limited Tickets at the Door on sale @ 6:~0 p.m.  

·-­

~~·----··­
Friday, February 6, 1998 The Observer • MEDICAL NEWS page 11 
Molecular 'glue' to fight cancer 
By ANNABELLE LOUIS explained. Early tests have shown cells Daily Californian (UC-Berkeley) If the molecular "glue" can be that ingest the sugar are successfully engineered to show unharmed by processing the 
BERKELEY, Calif. up on cell surfaces, it can also synthetic sugar. 
The fight against cancer may be used to stick to a variety of Mahal is currently studying have just become a sticky situa­elements, such as carbohy­the biochemical nature of the tion. drates, proteins, biomaterials or synthetic sugar. 
Using a combination of cell even cell-killing toxins, empow­She is experimenting with cell biology and organic chemistry, ering scientists with an entirely populations by feeding the sugar UC Berkeley assistant chemistry new weapon to fight human dis­to one group of cells and leaving professor Carolyn Bertozzi and a eases. the other group alone. team of graduate students have Bertozzi's team is currently "We want to see if we can get uncovered a possible way to applying this technology to tar-more of the ones that have been treat diseases like leukemia and treated with the sugar to stick," breast cancer through the use of she said. "We hope that in the engineered ce II surfaces that future, if we feed this sugar to 
'WE HAVE BEGUN TO
adhere to a wide range of mate­cancer patients, the glue will rials. UNDERSTAND THE appear more on the surfaces of By feeding a synthetic sugar {untreated) cells than on {treat­
BID-ORGANIC CHEMISTRY OF
known as ManLev to living cells, ed) cells." Bertozzi's team found that the CELIB WELL ENOUGH TO So far, Mahal and her col­cells ingested the man-made leagues have been feeding the
TREAT CELIB LIKE COMPLEX 
sugar and then affix the sub­sugar to leukemia and human stance to their cell walls after MACHINES ...' cancer cells, including those digesting it. The substance found in the colon, breast and formed a sort of molecular prostate. The next step is to try
CAROLYN BERTOZZI, 

"glue" on the surface of cells, to get the adhesive into the making it possible to adhere PROFESSOR OF CHEMISTRY blood vessels of whole living them to objects, including cer­creatures, such as laboratory tain toxins used to attack cancer get cancer cells. rats. cells. "If we can put this glue -or In the future, cells modified for 
"We were looking for expres­more like half a Velcro -onto specific reactions may hold sions of our unnatural sticky the surfaces of cancer cells, then promise in the construction of group on the cell surfaces and maybe we can bring in a sec­biocompatible materials and we found it," says graduate stu­ondary agent such as a toxin, or artificial organs. Living cells dent Lara Mahal, who first the other half of the Velcro to attached to biomaterials, such as thought of the project two years kill the cancer this way," Mahal electronic devices, may warn of ago. "We were able to put the said. dangerous chemicals or biologi­chemist's equivalent of glue onto As cells deposit the synthetic cal toxins in the environment. the cell surface by feeding it." sugar, they also decorate them­"We have begun to understand 
The cell surface contains a selves with millions of artificial the bio-organic chemistry of wealth of information that deter­markers. The researchers are cells well enough to treat cells mines how the cell interacts looking into methods enabling like complex machines to really with its environment. This new scientists to stick magnetic reso­do cellular engineering," says discovery to create an adhesive nance imaging contrast agents Bertozzi, who is also a member to cell surfaces has important onto the artificial markers to of Lawrence Berkeley National implications for future biomed­illuminate microscopic tumors Laboratory's Biomolecular ical research, the scientists or view faint cancer cells. Materials Program. 
Diamond PriceQuotations 246-1939 
Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely with information in our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, 186 pages, hardbound. 
The DiaiDond Authority® 
A Division of John M. Marshall's, Inc. Established 1965 
Monday-Friday, lOa.m. to 6p.m. 
Key Bank Building, Suite # 101 South Bend, Indiana 46601 
Study: 'Resistant' strains of HIV emerge 
By MARK MCKINNISS tectable levels," Lawrence 
Daily Trojan (Southern Cal) said. 
Though no one is suggesting 

STANFORD, Calif. the virus has disappeared, 
Postdoctoral fellows Sarah patients generally remain Palmer and Jody Lawrence, healthier than expected. working under professor of The hope is that HIV could medicine Thomas Merigan at potentially be treated as a Stanford's Center for AIDS chronic condition, though Research, have recently con­Lawrence adds, "That's quite ducted laboratory and clinical optimistic." studies on HIV. Palmer is more circumspect. 
The studies show that many "We hope to extend the of the new, experimental patient's life," she said. drugs being developed by But the success of the drugs pharmaceutical companies against non-resistant strains are not effective against of HIV contrasts with their "resistant" strains of HIV. inability to suppress resistant 
The clinical test confirmed strains. 
that the phenomenon of cross­Against those strains, the 
resistance -the tendency of viral load may decrease tem­
HIV strains resistant to one porarily, but eventually the 
drug to be resistant to all HIV load rebounds to the set 
drugs in the same class -point. 
manifests itself not only in These resistant strains are a 
laboratory studies but also in product of the HIV's ability to 
patients. mutate rapidly. 
The studies' findings are "Any suboptimal treatment 
currently being presented at gives the virus a chance to 
the Fifth Conference on develop resistant strains," 
Retroviruses and Lawrence said. 
Opportunistic Infections, at The resistant strains arose 
the Chicago Sheraton Hotel. partly due to the early HIV 
There are two broad types drugs, which were not com­of drugs that are used to sup­pletely effective. press HIV: reverse transcrip­"AZT is a suboptimal treat­tase {RT) inhibitors, which ment," Lawrence added. "We work against the RT enzyme, know it now, but we didn't and protease inhibitors, which know it then." inhibit the protease enzyme. Resistant strains also 
The RT inhibitors are fur­emerge when patients stop ther categorized into three one or more drugs in their different classes of drugs. regimen, thus making the They all work by sabotaging treatment sub-optimal. some aspect of the viral repli­Palmer's lab study grew two cation process. different resistant HIV strains 
For every HIV patient, there in cell cultures -MNR and 
is an individual "set point" at MDR -and tested them 
which the amount of HIV in against new anti-HIV drugs 
the body, the "viral load," sta­developed by pharmaceutical 
bilizes. companies. They have yet to 
The purpose of the anti-HIV be approved for treatment. drugs is to suppress the viral The MNR strain was highly load below the set point by resistant to three RT preventing viral replication. inhibitors, but three others 
Since the development of showed some promise. 
the first anti-HIV drug -the Against the MDR strain, two 
RT inhibitor commercially RT inhibitors and five pro­
known as AZT -many new tease inhibitors were ineffec­
drugs have been created. tive, but one protease 
Since 1996, doctors have inhibitor and the same three 
achieved remarkable success RT inhibitors from the MNR 
in suppressing HIV by using a strain were somewhat effec­
"cocktail" of anti-HIV drugs. tive. 
Today, the standard treat­"We're hoping to start a 
ment for HIV patients in clinical trial," Palmer said. 
Europe and North America is Lawrence treated patients 
a three-drug regimen of two infected with resistant HIV 
RT inhibitors and one pro­with different protease and 
tease inhibitor. RT inhibitors than they had 
"For 80 to 90 percent of previously been receiving. new patients, the triple-com­The new treatments were bination treatment works to effective initially, but viral reduce the virus to uncle-load eventually rebounded. 

•PRIVATE IN ROOM 
JACUZZI SPAS {FOR 2) TITANIC (PG-13) DJGITAL 12:00 4:00 8:15 BWESBAOlHERS {PG-13)
•FREE CONTINENTAL BREAKFAST 
DIGfTJ\1... 1:15 4:15 7:00 9:40 REPI..AC8'IIBIT Kl.l.EFIS (ro) 12:30 2:30 4:45 7:10 9:30

•FREE HBO, CNN, ESPN 
GOOD WILL HUNTING (R) 1 :30 4:30 7:20 10:00 

•FREE LOCAL CALLS, FAX DEEP RISING {R) 
2:15 5:15 7:40 10:10 SPICE WORLD {PG 13) 12:15 2:45 5:00 7:30 9:50 
t.laTEL 
Sat/Sun Mat. in [brackets] GREAT EXPECTATIONS (R) [1 :30] 4:30 7:15 9:45 FULL MONTY (R) 
[2:00] 4:45 7:30 9:40 AS GOOD AS IT GETS (PG-13) [1 :00] 4:00 7:00 9:50 

r 
' 
VIEWPOINT 
page 12 Friday, February 6, 1998 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME O~FICE: P.O. Box Q, Noire Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OF~ICE: 309 Haggar, Noire Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamit' Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Editor............................ Heather Cocks Advertising Managcr.............................. Jed Pcrers Viewpoint Editor ....................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager..................... Jennifer Breslow Sports Editor ................................. Mike Day Production Manager......................... Mark DeBoy 
Accent Editor ........................... joey Crawford Systcm.'i Manager ....................... Michael Brouillcr Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller............................................ Kyle Carlin 
Photo Edhor .. . . ............... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the indc~mlenr newspaper published by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It d~s nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administration ofeither imtitmion. The new!! is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edimrials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Ediwr, Viewpoint Ediwr, Sports Editor, Accent Ediwr, Saint Mary's Editor, Phoro Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries. letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available wall members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community ilnd to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions rhrough leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  6.~1-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Manilging Editor  631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
News/Phoro  631-5323  Systems  631-8839  
Sports  631-4543  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Editor/Viewpoint  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint.! @nd.edu  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  

• THAT Guv IN THE HAllWAY 
UNM.Jruq1-thtM!e.
llr\1\-~ macnelly.com 
(O:J P,~ent ~~ica 
thir\ks the. presi~nt is doing a g:xxi job... 

This
---. fiJpet>cen±:.. 

From the Other Side of the Table 
South Bend is not exactly over­whelmed with social outlets. and our student body is not known for its social skills, so I will assume many of us spend our time watching movies and going out to eat. If you haven't seen Heservoir Dogs, see it because you might learn something about going out 
Bob Kerr 

to cat. 
For those of you who arc familiar with the movie, you are aware that "Waitressing is the number one occupa­tion for female, non-college graduates in this country," and that because of our gratuity, "It's the one job basically any woman can get and make a living on." 
But. like Mr. Pink. too many soon-to­bn college graduates from this Catholic university carry a greater-than-thou attitude and are too preoccupied with thnir own financial situation to hear Harvey Koitel say "because of." Because of the tips. waiters and waitresses in Northern Indiana can call the standard hourly wage of $2.13 a living. 
Even at $2.13 an hour. waiting tables is not slavery. Waiters and waitresses can make a good living, and depending on the restaurant and clientele, waiting tables can comfortably support a fami­ly. 
But we are college students in South Bend, and we are not dining in live-star restaurants. We are short of cash, and we frequent those establishments where the employees truly earn every last cent. Part of every college educa­tion includes a first-hand lesson in eco­nomics. Share books, redefine "dirty" 
laundry, and drink Natural Light, but 
never, never, never short-change your 
waiter or waitress. 

From my experiences at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, everyone wants to go out and get away from campus, and most people do know how to pay for a good time in a restaurant or a bar. 
However, someone always has a prob­lem with the bill, and it becomes a has­sle for the group and an injustice to the server. At a recent dinner, the bill for 31 guys totaled $235. While I was col­lecting the money, one guy told me to just forget about the tip. Yeah, suck it up, leave the tip, and if it is that painful, then you can forget about it because the waitress won't. An extra $1.50 in his pocket meant a well-earned $50 in her apron. Until then, I have never encoun­tered anyone so unappreciative of a waitress, but more commonly, the non­tipper argues over fractions of dollars. 
Recently, about 15 of us spent the entire afternoon in a local establish­ment, and our waitress worked three hours overtime just to serve our party. A few guys were extremely hesitant to leave 20 percent gratuity, so we had to strong-arm them to chip in less than a dollar more. The woman did not wait around for her hourly wage, if you can call it that, she waited around for the tip she expected and deserved. 
The problem is not necessarily the server's hourly wage or gross income, but the customer's attitude toward an honest, well-earned living. Why is this attitude a problem in a Catholic univer­sity? As Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, we arc blessed. We are blessed with the ability to attend the most outstanding university/college in the world, but despite our prestige, we are not superior. 
We must earn our privileges and prove we are worthy of the respect tra­ditionally held for our student body. And too often we forget that we belong to a Christian community. Our intellec­tual pursuit should not corrupt our character, and the realization of our Christian principles should not require a conscious effort. Our status does not provide an excuse, rather it is an added responsibility to appreciate the stamina, patience and dedicated service of oth­ers. Yes, we are privileged, but no more deserving ofjustice than the "female, non-college graduates" that make our off-campus excursions possible. 
On Sept. 1, 1997, minimum wage was raised to $5.15 -so who is going to wait on you for $2.13 if you don't tip? Mr. Pink says, "I don't tip ljustl because society says I have to." 
Fine. If you don't want to conform to societal standards, at least listen to the government. Society suggests that cus­
'WE MUST EARN OUR PRIVI­
LEGES AND PROVE WE 
ARE WORTHY OF THE RESPECT 
TRADITIONALLY HEW FOR OUR 
STUDENT BODY. AND TOO OFfEN 
WE FORGET THAT WE BELONG TO 
A CHRISTIAN COMMUNITY.' 
tomcrs leave the server 15 to 20 per­
cent of the bill depending on the service 
and size of the party, the government 
assumes. The government doesn't hold waiters and waitresses to the minimum wage because it assumes we have some class and that we have enough decency 
to tip. By law, all income is taxed, 
including tips. So remember that your waiter or waitress works for significant­ly less than half of the minimum wage, 
and even your "generosity" is taxed. Your server is subject to a written law based on the practice of tipping, so accept your responsibility to carry out justice and include the deserved gratu­ity in the total bill. 
If, like Mr. Pink, you think your wait­ress can quit if she's not making enough money, then you are just not getting the point. Most of these people can't quit. They don't have the educa­tion you are going to have, and if they arc solely supporting a family, they can­not risk even a brief expnrinnce with unemployment. Because of our tips, this is one of the only occupations available where their income so directly refleets their effort. 
II', like Mr. Pink, you don't think the words "too busy" should be in a wait­ress' vocabulary, then just stop in any restaurant along Grape Hoad this week­end and ask how long you have to wait for a table. If it is under an hour, you are lucky. You are fortunate you don't have to wait more than an hour, but you are even more fortunate that you aren't hustling to support your children for $2.13. 
If, like Mr. Pink, you just don't believe in tipping, then learn to believe in tht~ meal-plan at the dinning hall. You can eat all you want three times a day, and you can serve yourself. 
I have some news for the non-tippnrs: You don't have your degree, and you aren't a stingy lawyer or self-absorbed executive, not yet anyway, so you don't even have a poor reason to judge some­one who is working their butt off to serve you. And no matter how "poor and starving" you might be, I guarantee that your waiter or waitrnss is poorer and more starving than you. If not, the dining hall is always looking for help. At $6 per hour, you can wear swnats and a t-shirt-and you don't even have to smile. 
The next time someone is waiting on you, please remember the immortal words of our beloved friend Bridget McGuire: "Our bartenders work for tips." 
Bob Kerr is a sophomore majoring in English. llis column appears ez,ery other Friday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer . 
• 000NESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU • 0UOTE OF THE DAY 
"Irealized a long time ago that a belief which 
does not spring from a con­
viction in the emotions is no 
belief at all." 
-Evelyn Scott 

.______ _j 

VIEWPOINT
Friday, February 6, 1998 page 13 
• lETIERS TO THE EDITOR 
Disillusion Frustrates Students 
• PERSPECTIVES OF NO 
Black Alumni Celebrate 50 Years at Notre Dame 
• 
There is something special about a 50th anniver­sary, perhaps because such a milestone provides a unique opportunity for us to momeritaJ;ilY consluer what we've accomplished, and also what we can yet achieve. 
Thus it is that the Black Alumni of Notre Dame, to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the first 
African American graduate of 
Mel 
Notre Dame, Frazier L. Thompson 47.• selected 50 
Tardy 

African American graduates for recognition as Distinguished Black Exemplars, May 1997. In addition. BA ofND. selected an additional 50 for honorable mention recognition. 
In honor of Black History Month, a special display featuring the exemplars-as well asmemorli1Jilia and articles dating back to the 1940s -has been set up in Room 108 (Corby Room) of LaFortune Student Center (left of the Information Desk; behind the pay phones), The historical collection will he on display daily; from 8 a.m. to 11 p.m., from now uiltilnextFriday;\Ve invite you and your friends to drop by to learn rnore about the African American experience at Notre Dame. 
Exemplar selections were made frmn a wide tleldof nominations, essentially by decade, based on inf'orma~ tion available at that time. The term "exemplar" is used to remind us that these individuals are not the only African American Notre Dame graduates wij.h significant accomplishments, or evennecessarilythe most outstanding. They are distinguished examples of what many of our graduates are achieving. . 
Many of.the exemplars were honored in person at an awards banquet held during the. BA of ND All· Classes Reunion, June 6. 1997. It w-as a proud, hum· bling yet inspiring evening, with well over 100 African American alumni in attendance (thereare now about 
1.200 African American alumni). Thefn.eaning~fthe event was heightened by the fact that we~ as African American graduates, have rarely taken such an oppor­tunity to collectively celebrate our achievements,..­perhaps, ironically, becaus() f()W wet'~" aware oft}l()m. 
Some names you know: Tim Brown; Tony Rice, Chris Zorich ... but do you know Brigadier G~neral Frank Taylor? What about U.S. Ambassador and'former Alabama mayor J. Gary Cooper? What about David Krashna -to date the only African American to serve as student body president? How many years (decades) ago was this? Are you aware of the unique cultural traditions of African Americans atND?Who founded the Gospel Choir. the Fashion Show, the Black Koffee House, OMSA (before it was OMSA) ,..and why? 
Hence, again, the importance ofthe 50th anniver­sary -as an opportunity for everyone to discover our unique contributions to Notre Dameh~tory and, &!So; for us to contemplate our future. To some degree, our history mirrors that of African Americans in the nation at large. As students, we developed unique traditions, fought for student and civil rights, and excelled acade­mically; paving the way for others to follow. 
As ND graduates, we have forged an incredible track record of success. Indeed, we navigate Fortune 500 companies, run our own banks and law firms, patent inventions, and mentor impoverished children; We give, we inspire. we endure, but most importantly, we achieve. Hence, our future-and that of our students and, ultimately, Notre Dame-can best he described as limitless. · 
Therefore, we invite you to share ih our celebration, and unique Notre Dame history, through the bio-gra­phies of our exemplars and the memorabilia in Room 108 of LaFortune. You can also checkoutour web.. site, under ''Alumni" on the ND home~age. . · · 
We are the beginning of a glorious tree, whose young branches already t'each across an entire globe, and whose fruit is finally coming to light~ .. butnlrry can we admire the tree andforget the toots; for no• matter where sprouted the seed. our roots pass •. through South Bend, Indiana, and we •.. we, too, are ND. . . . . ·: "'i!\1:;:.•.•. 
Mel Tardy is the vice chairofthe BldckAlumni of Notre Dame and can be reached at melvin.r.tardy.l@nd.edu. His·column usually appears 
every other Wednesday. . . . 
The views expressed in this column 
ate those (jf the author and n_ot necessarily those ofThe Observer, 

Coping with AIDS 
I am always astounded at the number of people that I know who do not want to be here. 
More than half of the people I've encountered on campus have entertained some thoughts of transferring, whether serious or not. However, no one ever seems to leave. It always con­founds me that there are so many people who go to school here but can't stand being here and complain about it all the time, yet are persuaded to stay. 
The most interesting reason that I've heard so far was when my friend described going to Notre Dame as analogous to banging your head against the wall -you only do it because it feels good when you stop. 
Despite this (or maybe because of it). I find myself to be more and more disillusioned by deci­sions of the administration and others of influence on campus. The general rule on campus is a kind of "don't ask, don't tell" principle. It's okay to break parietals, just make sure no one sees you. It's okay to drink if you're not 21, just make sure you keep it in your room. It's okay to have sex on campus, just make sure no one hears you. 
There is no perfect university out there, and there are no uni­versities that don't have hypo­critical rules. But I am inclined to think that the hypocrisy pre­sent at Notre Dame is a little out of the ordinary. 
We have a strict honor code here that governs the integrity of our educations. The University trusts us to make the 'right' decision in regards to our schoolwork. However, when it turns to the rights of the stu­dent, there does not seem to be an honor code -we are not trusted with our own selves when making decisions. 
Instead, the University decrees certain principles that we are to adhere to -although we rarely do. Is this the essence of a liber­al arts education? We are told we should learn all that we can, and even strictly guided towards that liberal education, but are stopped short of growing in our­selves. These 'principles' simply leave us less sound as function­ing members of society. Instead of learning from our mistakes, we are simply encouraged to not experience them. The question arises of the ability for students to fully actualize their liberal education if they are not allowed to do it on their own terms. 
These are the years of our lives when we come into our own. These are the days when we wake up and realize that we are our own person, and that we have the right to make our own decisions-this is OUR life to live and no one else's. 
Realizing this, it seems all the more perplexing that students continue to go here. There is some allure that this campus has that is undefinable, yet per­suades us to stay. Perhaps it is the hope or the knowledge of the potential of what we could be and what this school could be that keeps us here. Perhaps it is the hope in the ability to change an administration that thinks first of alumni and then of stu­dents. Perhaps it is the hope of reforming a University that has less faith in the ability of their students than they do in a reli­gion. 

Sophie Fortin Sophomore Lewis Hall February 4, 1998 
AIDS, acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, is caused by HIV, human immunodeficiency virus, which attacks the body's immune system. The thought of AIDS first came about in 1981 when unusual cancers and infections were reported in gay men. Thus, the Center for Disease Control (CDC) called it "gay-related immune deficiency." However, in 1982, the CDC linked this new disease to blood and renamed it AIDS. An American scien­tist named Robert Gallo announced that he had found the virus that caused AIDS in 1984, even though this discovery of HIV was made a year ear­lier by the French. 
In early 1997, the total estimated number of people who have died because of AIDS was 6.4 million. Furthermore, the number of people who are currently diagnosed with AIDS or HIV is more than 22 million. Most of the people living with AIDS have had hard lives. However, a small num­ber of people have great amounts of support and did not have to go through much hardship. The people who have AIDS are people, whether they are famous or not, all of these people are going through the same thing. 
Many people who have AIDS are people one might run into every day. A person in the early stages looks like everyone else. John is a man whom few people know. He is openly gay and has AIDS. John told his best friend that he was HIV­positive in 1987 or 1988. He has had the disease for a very long time and is still alive today. He lost his liver a year and a half ago and has made countless visits to the hospital in the past year. At one point, his condition was so severe, that a hos­pital bed was delivered to his home. His health improved to the point that he no longer needs the hospital bed, but every now and then he gets a cold and it hits him really hard. The AIDS virus breaks down the immune system and causes small viruses, such as the common cold, to be hard on him because his body is unable to fight back. "I have had AIDS for a long time now. I don't consid­er myself to be dying from it, only living with it," commented John on his condition. He is a strong individual with a lot of determination. He wants to live long enough to have a cure found. 
A terminal illness is something that no one wants for his or her self or for someone they love. When this does happen, it causes grief for every­one close to that person. 
The health of a person infected with HIV or AIDS is subject to change without notice. The smallest virus can and does have a greater effect on an infected person than it would on an uninfected person. A person who has either HlV or AIDS does not die from it directly. He or she dies form a virus that the body is unable to fight. 
AIDS and HIV are no joke. They are serious dis­eases that currently have no cure. Many drugs have been found to help slow down the disease, but nothing to stop it completely. AIDS has proba­bly been around for longer than scientists have dated. This disease affects everyone. Each and every person knows at least one person who has AIDS. Maybe not personally, but indirectly. The facts need to be known by all in order to begin to slow down, if not stop, the spread of the awful dis­ease. Furthermore, any and all research that can be done is effort to find a cure for this terminal ill­ness needs to be done. That way, people like John can say he lived with AIDS and beat it. 
Astra Barden Freshman February 5, 1997 

ACCENT
page 14 Friday, February 6, 1998 


fte 
est o 
• 



By RACHEL TORRES 
Saint Mary's Accent Editor 



be disappointed. "It's a delightful spin on a romantic comedy," said junior Kelly Galassi. 
The fact that the actors work wit-h no directors, no sets, no props, and no cos­tumes is incredible. Perhaps even more impressive than this is that they also have the job of characterizing 18 differ-· ent characters among the five of them. While this would certainly be a difficult task for a normal person, these thespi­ans make it look like child's play. 
These actors have mastered this per­formance so greatly that they had no need to rehearse this week. They're simply that good. 
The ACTEH performance of "A Midsummer Night's Dream" depends a great deal upon the imaginative scope of the audience. However, there can be no doubt that each of the 18 characters is distinct. The actors are able to con­vince the audience with their pure the­atrical talent. 
Using variations of body language and accents, the actors change identities right before the audience's eyes. If 
characters are played by the same actor 
and required to be on stage at the same 
time, the talents of the actors are espe­cially evident. They are able to switch identities and act opposite themselves. 
.. 
The Observer/Kevin Dallum 

Biddy Wells and Peter Forbes play two of their many characters in "A Midsummer Night's Dream" in 
Washington Hall last night. 
They can even do their own sound effects. The audience hears the fairies fly, toads croak, and birds chirp all because the actors make the sounds with their own mouths. 
"They [the actors] take the most basic elements of theatre and still make the performance very interesting," said sophomore Brendan Walsh. 
The stage has no scenery, but yet the audience knows when the players are in the depths of the fairy forrest or not. 
A challenging aspect of "A Midsummer Night's Dream" is the fact that it contains a play within a play. Despite this obstacle, the players still manage to create a comical and credible performance. 
"A Midsummer Night's Dream" is one of Shakespeare's finest come­dies, and the ACTERs preserve the timelessness of this great work with each of their stellar performances. 
Christian Browning, a fifth-year senior was especially impressed with the comedic performances. He says the performers were "a most smashing, switched-on, shagadelic company." Overall, he describes the experience as "stand-up comedy a Ia William Shakespeare." 
Senior Ryan Smith also enjoyed the performance. "It presented the brilliance of William Shakespeare with the energy of clowns and the simplicity of Thoreau." 
Need anybody say more? 


By RACHEL TORRES 
Saint Mary's Accent Editor 

N
otre Dame students were lucky enough this week to be in the presence of greatness. 
Five of London's most talented actors came to share a unique perspective of their craft. An integral part of the ACTER program allows the actors to bring a little bit of their performance talents not only onto the stage, but into classrooms as well. 
By the end of their stay, the actors will have performed four sold out shows in Washington Hall, lectured to more than 20 classes and given two free public lectures. 

Peter Linford, one of the actors on the tour, taught a class this week that had just finished reading the play "The Country Wife." Linford, who has acted in that play, engaged the students with new ways to interpret the text. 
"When you're an actor ... try to get as far away from yourself as possible," said Linford. "Just try it; see what happens." . 
Linford stressed the importance of acting as a process, and showed how the text can be interpreted any number of ways. He directed some of the students as they read a few of the scenes from the play. Calling several of the students before the class to act the roles, he invited them to step inside the characters to better understand them. 
One of the students who read from the text in front of the class, Chris Goddard had a positive experiece. 
"He [Linford] had an energetic and imaginative way of presenting the text," said Goddard. "Playing the charac­ter gave me greater insight into the construction of the character." 
To be sure, there was never a dull moment in the entire class. Incorporating music and a high degree of audience involvement, Linford presented "A Country Wife" from an actor's perspective. 
The play's characters are ones who exude a great deal of self confidence. To help the students understand this, Lanford invited them all to walk to the end of an imagi­nary stage and introduce themselves in a "seductive way." From the beginning of class to the end, the stu­dents were learning and having a great deal of fun doing it. 
Sophomore Kelly Holohan also had positive feedback to give about the classroom experience. 
"I loved it," she said. "Something that wouldn't be as interesting was interesting because he [Lanford] made it so much fun. He was just a scream." 
Acting some of the scenes, "shocks them out of being an ordinary class," said Linford. "It's really great fun. Extraordinary." 
This is only one of the examples of actors teaching in classes this week. All five actors had opportunities to work with professors and students in the areas of both literature and theatre. It has proven to be a rewarding experience for those involved. 
~-~ ---~------­
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, February 6, 1998 
.. 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALL 

USC in recruiting 
Carr captures nation's finest 
By MARK SNYDER occasions he talked to some guys who were visit­Michigan Daily ing and I understand he made some phone calls." 
class of its own
While depth at quarterback may not be a signif­
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 
After a long night and an even longer morning, Lloyd Carr ran finally relax after signing what experts are calling the finest recruiting class in thn nation. 
Wednesday, on th{~ first day of' the spring sign­ing period. 19 players sent in their letters of intent. securing Michigan's f'ootball future f'or years to eome as Carr and recruiting coordinator Bobby Morrison watched the commitments roll in. 
The dass, loadnd with talented players in near­ly all of Michigan's weak areas, is a group about which Carr said he "couldn't be happier." 
llailing f'rom 11 states and two countries ­tight end Deitan Dubue lives in Montreal -the players committed to the National Champions early and often. Twelve of the players ensured their arrival before Michigan played in the Hose Bowl. 
Following a season in which Miehigan's strin­gent defense dominated games and gained admirers, it was the offensive skill positions that ereated the largest stir on the recruiting scene. 
The first commitment -more than a year ago -came f'rom Brighton quarterback Drew llenson. I lis deeision got the ball rolling for the Wolverines. 
Despite Michigan's existing depth at quarter­back -Seott Driesbach may return for a fifth year while Tom Brady and Jason Kapsner have multiple seasons of' eligibility remaining -Carr maintains llenson will have an opportunity to eompete for playing time from the start of the season. 
"lie's had the advantage of playing in an out­standing (high school) program," Carr said. "He's coming in more developed than the average guy, but we'll have to see how he reacts to the speed of the game. 
"lie is a guy who will have an opportunity to compete." 
Henson's multiple talents-he also throws a 90-mph fastball that has professional baseball scouts drooling -extended into Carr's domain. Unworried about overstepping his bounds, llenson did a little recruiting of his own. 
"Drew understands to win a championship, the better players you have to have with you -and he did (help) during the course of this recruiting process," Carr said. "There were a number of icant question for Michigan, finding targets for those gunslingers was a bit more difficult. 
But with just two commitments, Michigan's receiving corps improved from suspect to excep­tional. 
"Particularly, it was important for us to recruit two receivers," Carr said. "With Russell Shaw leaving, Charles Woodson played an integral part of our passing game, and Tai Streets will be a senior -we did an excellent job there. We recruited two guys who will have an immediate opportunity." 
The loss or near-departure of those three receivers would probably not have altered Carr's praise, though. 
"Marquise Walker and Dave TerreH would play no matter who was here," Carr said. "They have that kind of ability." 
Walker, a 6-foot-3, 195-pound wide receiver from Syracuse, N.Y., and Terrell, who stands 6­foot-4 and hails from Richmond, Va., are two of the top receiver prospects in the nation and fill the largest hole on the Michigan depth chart. 
"Probably seven or eight of (the recruits) were in our (summer) camp -of the 12 early commit­ments," Carr said. "And most of those guys looked at the school before the heavy recruiting began." 
But the cornerstone of this season's class, run­ning back Justin Fargas, nearly gave Carr a heart attack at the last minute. 
On Tuesday night, while most of the football commitments were sitting down to quiet dinners at home after cementing their positions as Wolverines, Fargas was sweating from outside pressure. Meanwhile, Carr was doing his best to retain the nation's top tailback. 
A 40-minute phone conversation -which Carr said must have endured "30 interruptions" -­swayed the California native back to Michigan, a choice he announced last Saturday but didn't confirm until late yesterday morning. 
"I thought that fax was never going to eome in," Carr said. "In the final analysis, (UCLA and USC) made a pitch to keep him at home. And I simply reminded him of the goals from when he eame in here last summer (to visit). 
"I reminded him of the things he told me a week ago." 
A state track champion in the 100-meter dash last spring in California, it is Fargas' speed that had coaches pounding down his door. 
By RYAN HOCHGESANG Daily Trojan 
LOS ANGELES 
In November, it looked like USC's 1998 recruiting class could possibly be the best in the country. 
In late December, with sever­al key recruits thinking of going elsewhere after John Robinson's firing, it looked like a potential disaster. 
But when national signing day finally rolled around Wednesday and all the specula­tion subsided, new USC football Head Coach Paul Hackntt came away with a solid inaugural recruiting class. 
Hackett, who had little more than a month to play the recruiting game, was pleasnd with the final results. 
"Despite our late start in the recruiting process, I think we more than held our own by signing some exciting, big-play type of football players," Hackett said. 
The most exciting of whom is quarterback Jason Thomas of Compton Dominguez, who ver­bally committed to the Trojans in the fall but was almost lost to Nebraska following Hobinson's firing. Other nationally rated top-100 recruits include quar­terback Carson Palmer, running back Sultan McCullough and offensive lineman Zaeh Wilson. 
But Hackett was also disap­pointed after barely missing out on several top recruits. .Justin Fargas, rated by most experts as the top running back in the country, chose Michigan over USC after leaning toward USC in the fall. 
Jermaine Brooks of Rancho Cucamonga, a highly-rated 
defensive lineman, spurned the favored Trojans for Arkansas and was mentioned indirectly by I Jackett several times as one who got away at the last minute. 
"I don't think you're ever happy unless you get them all," llacketl said. "But I can't worry about the guys who didn't seize the opportunity and come to USC." 
But even without Fargas, the running game looks to receive a needed jolt from this year's recruits. 
"If there's a highlight to me, it's the running situation," llackett said. 
McCullough, f'rom Pasadena Muir, rushed for 2,145 yards in 1997, averaging 10 yards a carry, and will beeome one of the fastest players on the team the first time he sets foot on Howard .Jones Field. llis broth­er, Saladin, is a star running back for Oregon. 
Hounding out the backfield signees are Miguel Fletcher of Santa Clarita and Frank Strong of Stockton. 
While those throe will bring excitement to the running back position, probably no position in 1998 will be as exciting -or as intriguing-as the quartnrback position. 
Both Mike Van Haaphorst and John Fox will return next year aftnr starting games and show­ing tremendous potential in 1997, but the battle for the quarterback position just got two new contenders. 
Jason Thomas, a Parade all­American despite missing most of his senior season with an ankle injury, is considered by experts to be one of the top 1 0 overall recruits in the country. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and fro~ _12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
Classifieds stfieds IS 3p.m. All class1beds must be prepa1d. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES  II  FOR RENT  Available in Aug. 3-4 Bedroom 2 Baths Washer/Dryer. Furnished  TICKETS  Monday .... -don antonio  Hey -did you know ... We're open early, late, and week- 
Attached Garage 683-6591  Michiana Paintball at Scottsdale  ends for your convenience!  
000 THE COPY SHOP  000  House For Rent  WANTED-ND vs MIAMI B-Ball tix  Mall. Now open for indoor/outdoor  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  
LaFortune Student Center  Two Blocks From Campus  ROOM $128+u!il Share house w/  on 2/22. Lower arena.  play. Students w/Nd-SMC ID -1/2  LaFortune Student Center  
WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE,  4-5 Bedroom. Dishwasher,  grad stu Good neighborhd 280­ 258-1111  price field fee.  Phone 631-COPY  
AND WEEKENDS!! I  Washer/Dryer. Large Backyard and  5274  291-2540.  
Mon -Thur  7:30am -Midnight  Off Street Parking.  Cheap Plane ticket for a woman  Without me your room could not  
Fri  7:30am -7:00pm  June 98 for Summer, August for  ATTENTION JUNIORS AND PAR- anywhere in U.S.  Perfect for Spring  don antonio­ exist!  
Sat  Noon -6:00pm  Fall. FREE MONITORED SECURI­ ENTS  Break.  I agree that secrecy is best, espe- 
Sun  Noon -Midnight  TY SYSTEM!  DUE TO CANCELLATION THI::  Cynthia 1-7424  cially since NO ONE knows that it's  If I am going to drink trailer, than I  
CALL 631-COPY  Call 289-4712  ORCHARD COTTAGE IS AVAIL- me! but best of all, it keeps spicy  am going to dress trailer.  
ABLE FOR JUNIOR PARENTS  WANTED:  the pepper of our love. until mon- 
HEY!!  It's not too early to place a  FURN, 1 BDRM APT., AIR, PRI­ WEEKEND.  2 Allen Jackson tickets 24 7-0737  day? how can I last that long with- Frosty and his evil sidekick.  
VALENTINE in the classified ads  VATE KITCHEN, ENTRANCE,  15 MIN. FROM CAMPUS  out you?  
for your sweetie and/or a friend!  LAUNDRY, PHONE, UTILITIES INCLUDED $400/MO, ROOM  1LR 1BDR 1BATH SM.KITCHEN. WITH THE SOFA BED THERE IS  PERSONAL  -colleen  Stop the penny madness.  
$200/MO.  ROOM FOR4.  AJ Boyd is more than my hero. He  You smell like a Cabbage Patch  
ARE YOU A SURVIVOR OF  272-0615.  CONTINENTAL BRFST.  Happy Birthday Pimpstress!  is my savior.  Kid .  
.....  RAPE? Sex Offense Services is  IN BUSINESS 7 YRS. $85/NIGHT  Love, A,A& N  I love you man!  
offering a free, confidential rape  CALL 2883923  STRONGSVILLE...that one was for  
support group for undergraduate  ...In case you haven't figured it  did you know that the human head  you CN. gotta love it.  
and graduate women at Notre  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  out, we're trying to tell you that  weighs eight pounds?  
Dame, Saint Mary's, I USB, and  JPW AND OTHER ND-SMC  219-291-7153  FAT TONY's name is no longer  since we are 8 strong now.  
Holy Cross. Please call 283-1308  EVENTS.  FAT TONY, but the new and  I wish I were a bird.  
for more information.  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5 MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK.  FOR SALE  improved UMPHREY'S McGEE. Come out and shake it with  if you dig a ditch 8 1/2 centimeters  anyway.  
ILOST & FO~ND I  243-0658.  Beautiful Brass bed, queen size,  UMPHREY's McGEE and All SABA'S TAHINI on SATURDAY night at  by 13 1/2 centimeters by 16 1/2 centimeters. how much dirt would it hold?  · kk--what are the chances??do you believe it??  
with orthopedic Mattress set and  BENCHWARMERS, located  where's your briefcase now??  
Lost Tl-85 calculator in Fitz Comp  ALL SIZE HOMES  frame. New, never used, still in  next to Heartland downtown.  none. it's a ditch!  
Lab. PLEASE call 4x1067.  CLOSE TO CAMPUS  plastic. $225 219-862-2082  We still think Budney is guilty.  how's that for inside jokes????  
232-2595  ATTENTION SENIORS!!  not lhat it matters since some peo- 
WANTED  Pass counterfeit $ = YOU break the  only 98 more days til freedom!!  pie clearly do not read these at all.  
MALE LOOKING FOR MALE TO  law.  this makes mel and andrea very  
SHARE 2-BDRM HOME. INC.  OPEN HOUSE  Forge a check = YOU break the  happy campers indeed.  who knows what they are think­ 
WASHER/DRYER, PHONE,  law.  ing??  
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT  SATE LITE T\!.  Sun 218 11 am-2pm  Use a fake drivers license = BAR  movin' on up ....  
-Fishing industry~ Excellent earn­ 219-289-1357.  610 E. Angela Blvd.  breaks the law?  we are definitely, by far, all of us.  
ings & benefits potential.  ·  1 blk. from campus.  Go Figural  THE coolest girls in school. we're  
Male/Female. No experience nee- NICE 3-4 BEDROOM HOME FOR  o happy day.  like. three cool cats times two.  
essary. Ask us how! 517-324-3116  NEXT SCHOOL YEAR GOOD  Immediate occupancy, 3 lrg. bdrms  ahhhh... shutdown. ha ha  (that's six .. .i may be a&l, but i'm not  
ext. A55841  AREA NORTH OF ND 2773097  w/extra large closets, hardwood  an idiot!!!)  
floors, walk-in attic storage, 1 & 1/2  it's almost the weekend baby. t- Looking for a unique gift for your  
POTATO HOUSE 8 BEDROOM  baths, living room w/fireplace, for- minus 8 days.  valentine?  or so i think.  
FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR  mal dining room, kitchen with kitch- Bring in your favorite pictures and  
Tutor needed to work with high  2773097  enette, enclosed sun porch, full  colleen- we'll create a custom color calendar  Happy belated birthday to the one  
school student preparing for GED.  basement with rec room & wet bar,  i've decided that our affair must  for your sweetie. Same day turn- who doesn't read these at all.  
Areas to review are govt, algebra,  98'-99' yr. 6 bedrm. 2-car gar.  water softner, draperies & appl. inc.  remain a secret, and thus, so must  around. Any twelve month combi­ 
geometry, & writing. Prefer tutor to  sand V -ball ct. washer/dryer.  Maintenance free exterior. Outdoor  your name. perhaps sometime  nation.  crazy fool.  
come to house. but student can  1628 Portage Av. 234-3831  gas grill, gas heat, CIA, recently  soon I will be able to loose this thin  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  
drive to tutor. Call 272-8235.  273-0482  redecorated.  veil that shields us from the gnash- LaFortune Student Center  
ing teeth of the cruel world.  until  



Friday, February 6, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• OLYMPICS 
Buildings add to futuristic feel of Olympic Games 
Associated Press 
NAGANO, Japan 

Hising from the earth at the foot of Japan's Alps, it seems a glittering metal mountain in front of a dramatic natural range. 
Then again, it could be a really big, really annoyed armadillo. 
The arena known as the "M­Wavc" will house much of the speed-skating competition after the Nagano Games open Saturday. Like its Olympic col­leagues, its sleekness tran­scends its pretty cool name. 
Built to be both functional and dazzling, the shiny build­ings and mountainside arenas where the 1998 Winter Olympics will unfold are exer­cises in shrewd marketing, modernity and exuberance. 
"I think it's fantastic. I think 
they're definitely very well 
prepared for the Olympics," 
U.S. luger Cammy Myler of Plattsburgh, N.Y., said Thursday. 
Thn slick buildings accentu­ate the futuristic feel of Nagano's neon-draped down­a roof supported by 1,450 tons town and take some cues from of steel that make pillars the city's train station, itself an unnecessary. From the outside impressive piece of architec­it looks like, well, a big hat. ture and utilitarianism. The "M-Wave" is what 
Minami Nagano Sports Park, International Olympic site of the Committee opening cere-executive m o n y member 
Saturday 'THEY DID A REALLY Kevan Gosper morning NICE JOB WITH THE of Australia (Friday night calls "the
ARCHITECTURE -IT'S AIRY
EST), was venue that I designed to AND BRIGHT. AT HOME, WE think is magi­evoke the cal." Like
SKATE IN A GLOOMY ARENA, many of the
cherry blos­som, Japan's SO IT'S NICE TO SKATE IN A others it seems very
n a t i o n a I BRIGHT ATMOSPHERE.' 
flower. jet-age, evok­
Designed for ing perhaps the Olympics, KYOKOINA something it holds from "The
U.S. PAIRS CHAMPION 
50,000 people now, with temporary outfield stands, and more permanent stands will be added. Nagano wants to entice a professional baseball team to fill it. 
The "Big Hat," where men's hockey and some women's hockey will be played, features 
If you want to be like Mike, join The Observer sports department. Contact Michael Edward Day at 1--4543. 
ATTENTION: 

Dale Bauer, Professor of English and recent Chair of the Women's Studies Program at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, will give a lecture on Monday, February 9, at 7:00 in the Center for Continuing Education, Room 210-214, West Lounge. The title of her talk is "Indecent Proposals: Teaching's Public Image." Professor Bauer is the author of Edith Wharton's Brave New Politics (University of Wisconsin Press, 1994) and Feminist Dialogics: A Theory of Failed Community (SUNY Press, 1988). She is also the co-editor of Feminism, Bakhtin, and the Dialogic (SUNY Press, 1991 ). 
To: Erin Flynn ND '01 1 VIe\\\ Vlell!

Yle,'• 
SMC '73 SMC '74 ND '76,'80 SMC '76 ND '78 
Uncle Jerry ND '78 Aunt Laura Uncle Danny Aunt Mary Uncle Tom We have closed down a lot of places, 

But never for good!! Study Hard!! 
Jetsons." 
As for the 
name-that 

comes from the design of the roof, a kind of M shape said to resemble the wave-like peaks of the Japanese Alps. 
The "White Ring," a shiny silver donut, is where the fig­ure skating and short-track speed skating events will unfold. An opaque roof lets outside light in; inside, exposed concrete adds charac­ter. It seats about 6,000. 
"They did a really nice job with the architecture -it's airy and bright," says two-time 
U.S. pairs champion Kyoko Ina. "At home, we skate in a gloomy arena, so it's nice to skate in a bright atmosphere." 
Russian figure skating cham­pion Ilia Kulik goes further: "Being here, it helps a lot," he says. 
The "Aqua Wing," with its showcase retractable roof and a design that "evokes the image of a wing floating to the ground," will be the site of most women's hockey competi­tion. Even for an iee rink, it's icy. "It's cold -dress warm­ly," says U.S. women's hockey coach Ben Smith. 
Karyn Bye, assistant captain of his team, likes the arena even though archrival Canada's locker room is right next door to her team's. 
"It's nice to have the seats fairly close to the ice, to get the crowd into the game," says Bye, of River Falls, Wis. 
Design meets topography at the mountain-tucked sites that encircle Nagano. 
"Spiral," the luge and bob­sled run, drops nearly 350 feet over 13 curves and follows the area's natural topography over 5,100 feet. It's the only track anywhere with two uphill sec­tions. 
"The second uphill section is certainly different than any other track in the world," Myler says. "There are other uphills, but not nearly as steep. It makes it fun." 
The ski jumping site at Hakuba, high in the moun­tains, was completed in 1992. Nearly 10,000 trees were planted to replace about 5,000 cut during its construction. Building it also forced the moving of grass that the pro­tected Gifu butterfly feeds upon, causing environmental­ists some consternation. 
Alpine skiing sites in Hakuba and Yamanouchi were built around existing ski trails to minimize new construction. The biathlon venue will use an existing cross-country course. "Snow Harp," the cross-coun­try and Nordic venue in Hakuba, also had to skirt some environmental pitfalls. 
And the curling venue, 1 1/2 hours toward Tokyo in Karuizawa, is one of the few facilities not built just for these games. It's already been used for World Cup speed-skating events. 
But what happens once the two weeks of competition end? Many of these facilities were built just for the games; Nagano never seemed to need them before. 
The M-Wave will become a multi-purpose sports arena and event hall, the White Ring a gymnasium, the Aqua Wing an indoor swimming complex and the Big Hat a home to var­ious events. 
And Nagano's landscape will be forever changed. 
Many one-time Olympic venues have trouble finding second lives. HOK Sport, an architectural firm in Kansas City, Mo., that builds arenas, is reworking Los Angeles Coliseum, built for the1932 Summer Games and reused in 1984. Today, it is used only occasionally for USC football. 
"It really underscores the importance of planning," says Bob White, vice president of HOK Sport. 
"Communities are recogniz­ing ... that it's too expensive to throw it up for two weeks and not worry about it after­wards," White said Thursday. 
Alan Balfour, dean of archi­tecture at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in New York, says such construction can be positive for years to come -if it is built with the community in mind. 
"All of these things people are doing at the Nagano Olympics will go on being done there -as an expansion of a major industry," he says. 
"You carve nature to support you, in a way," Balfour says. "What the Olympics are doing, by erecting these kinds of buildings, are reinforcing their primary business around the world." 
• 

Cbioago DJ'.s spinning tbe best alternative danoe musio zzz§.Michigan • South Bend-.~Z19.J Z34-5ZOO 

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS 
• SAINT MARY'S BASKETBALL 
Business as usual for Belles 
Stern testifies in Sprewell case 
Saint Mary's seeks consistency against Franklin 
By SHANNON RYAN Sports Writer 

Now that the Saint Mary's basketball team has slammed the breaks on its nine-game losing streak, it's ready to jump-start the new month with a win Sunday over Franklin College. 
"We had a hard time in January," coaeh David Hoeder said. "[The win over Bethel) was a nice way to open -February." Saint Mary's is aiming for a victory over Franklin en route to its goal of a total number of victories in double figures. Although the Bethel victory was pure pleasure for the 6-12 Belles, there were still not many smiles around Angela Athletic Facility. Things are business as usual for Boeder and company. "We want to win," said the 
•NBA 
Associated Press 

NEWYOHK 
In a high-profile ending to the eight-day Latrell Sprewell arbi­tration case. commissioner David Stern testified for almost four hours Thursday in an effort to uphold the harshest non-drug penalty he has ever imposed. 
''I'm very comfortable with our action," he said of Sprewell 's one-year suspension. "My job is to protect this league and the 400-plus players who never get involved in activity like the kind we are litigating, and I feel comfortable that I've acquitted myself the way I'm supposed to." 
Stern's testimony, which fol­lowed the questioning of three NBA security personnel, brought a conclusion to a hear­ing that lasted eight days over two weeks in Portland, Ore., and New York. 
Post-hearing briefs are due by 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents 

The residency of Actors from the London Stage is sponsored by the Paul M. and Barbara Henkels Visiting Scholar Series. 
Feb. 13, and closing arguments will be made on the morning of Feb. 16 in New York. 
Arbitrator John Feerick will then have 30 days to rule on Sprewell's two grievances ­one against the Warriors for terminating his contract; the other against the NBA for what he contends is excessive punish­ment. 
Sprewell, who was suspPnded by the league and had hi~ con­tract terminated by Golden State for his attack on coach 
P.J. Carlesimo at practice Dec. 1, will know the outcome of his grievance by March 18 at the latest. 
Horace Balmer, the league's director of security, testified for two hours Thursday morning and was followed by two of his deputies, Jim Wilson and Alicia Parker. 
Stern then answered ques­tions from lawyers representing the league and the players asso­straight-faced second-year head coach. "We want to finish with 10 wins. We'll do whatev­er it takes." 
The Belles will be pulling out all the stops when they take on Franklin, who they destroyed last year by more than 20 points. But it is a different sea­son. 
"They're a better team [this year]," Roeder said. "But so are we." 
'WE WANT TO WIN. WE WANT TO FIN­ISH WITH 10 WINS. WE'LL DO WHATEVER IT TAKES.' 
DAVID ROEDER 
The Saint Mary's team has won more games this year than it did last year. 
It will, however, have prob­lems measuring up to the com­petition. Literally. 
The Belles' tallest player is listed at 5-foot-10 and Franklin boasts a group of 6­
footers. 

Nevertheless, Saint Mary's can cast shadows on its oppo­nents with its roster. If the trio of captains play as they did against Bethel, the Belles should pull off the win without a hitch. 
Brenda Hoban, who led the crew with 21 points Monday, is expected to play leader of the pack on Sunday. 
"She had a great game," Boeder said. "It was one of her career highs. She's been play­ing aggressively." 
Darcy Nikes and Julie McGill will also need to fulfill their captain roles to stifle Franklin's threatening offense. 
"McGill's our inside player," Roeder said. "We'll need her to play well on both ends. Darcy's sparked the fast break and will need to initiate the offense." 
Saint Mary's is revving up the motors, preparing for sparks to fly Sunday as it keeps the momentum rolling. Now that the Belles have ended the losing skid, they'll discover on their home courts whether they have the horse­power to stay on track. 

ciation -as well as the arbitra­tor himself-as he testified from 2 p.m. to 5:45 p.m. 
With a limited gag order lifted for the weekend, Stern stopped in the lobby to talk to reporters. 
"I can't go into specifics, but it was not difficult," he said. "I don't want to appear to be influ­encing the outcome, so I'm not going to comment on the testi­mony. The core issues have stayed the same, and I'm sure the arbitrator will give it his full attention and come to a conclu­sion," Stern said. 
GET MONEY FROM YOUR UNCLE INSTEAD. 
Your Uncle Sam. Every fees. They even pay a flat rate year Army ROTC awards for textbooks and supplies. scholarships to hundreds of You can also receive an allow-talented students. If you anceofupto$1500eachschool 
qualify, these merit-based  LfAOERSiiiP  year the scholarship is in  
scholarships can help you  ~  effect.  Find out today if  
paytuitionandeducational  you qualify .  


ARMY ROTC 
THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE 
For details, visit 216 Pasquerilla Center or call 631-6986 
-· 
Friday, February 6, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
.NBA 
All-Stars prepare for tip-off in New York 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

This should be an All-Star game to remember, a cross­roads event with subplot upon subplot in the media capital of the world. 
Michael Jordan in his "last" All-Star game vs. Kobe Bryant in his first. 
The league elders vs. the tod­dlers. Grumpy George Karl vs. laid­back Larry Bird. The slam-dunk contest vs. 2­ball. It even has the David Stern vs. Latrell Sprewell sideshow. 
"It's going to be fun. I can't wait. Talk about your emotions and adrenaline," said Bryant, the 19-year-old Lakers reserve voted by fans into the starting lineup for the Western Conference as the youngest NBA All-Star ever. 
The game, which tips off Sunday at 6:38 p.m. EST, looks like it may have some of the pizzazz that was missing the last couple of years in hum­drum contests in the too-big Alamodome in San Antonio and the silent Gund Arena in Cleveland. 
The New York Knicks' 
Madison Square Garden is 
known as the mecca of basket­
ball and the game hasn't been 
in the Big Apple since 1968. 
Some 1,817 media credentials 
have been issued, scalpers have 
been demanding more than 
$1,000 for the best seats and 
even the players seem to be 
looking forward to it instead of secretly dreading the lost vaca­tion time. 
"It's going to be very exciting, given all the young players who have made the team," Jordan said. "Most of the old guys and some of the old faces have gone. It's like the changing of the times." 
The East and West rosters feature players from different generations. There are elders in Jordan, Karl Malone, David Robinson and Reggie Miller; youngsters in Bryant, rookie Tim Duncan, Kevin Garnett and Antoine Walker; and three gen­erations of 'tweeners: the Jason Kidd-Nick Van Exel-Vin Baker types; the slightly older Grant Hill-Penny Hardaway-Shaquille O'Neal set; and the early 30s Shawn Kemp-Glen Rice-Mitch Richmond crew. 
Among the "old faces" Jordan was talking about are Patrick Ewing of New York (an 11-time All-Star); Charles Barkley (11), Hakeem Olajuwon (12) and Clyde Drexler (10), all of Houston; John Stockton of Utah (9); and Scottie Pippen (7) of Chicago. 
Injuries and diminished vote totals kept all of them from making this year's cut, leaving their formerly automatic roster spots open to some of the league's most exciting newcom­ers. 
Jordan and Utah's Malone are the oldest veterans on the all­Star team, and the seven first­timers are: Bryant, Van Exel, Duncan, Walker, Steve Smith, Rik Smits and Jayson Williams. 
"Charles is not there, 
Olajuwon is not there, Ewing's not there -all the guys who came up with me when we made the transformation from the Larry Birds and the Kevin McHales," Jordan said. "I guess I seem like the oldest one who is still around who made the transition." 
The East brings a two-game winning streak into the game. Jordan needs to score 41 points to break Kareem-Abdul Jabbar's career all-Star game scoring record of 251 points. Jordan's average of 21.1 points in 10 All-Star games is the high­est in league history. 
It may be his last All-Star game. Jordan says he'll retire if Phil Jackson is not rehired as coach of the Chicago Bulls, and general manager Jerry Krause has said Jackson won't be back. 
"This is it. I'm done," Jordan said Wednesday night. "It's totally simple. I won't play any­where else. I won't follow Phil anywhere. I will totally retire. That clears up every question." 
If everyone sticks to their positions, it means the NBA will lose the greatest player in its history at a time when the future is unsettled and the league is waging a campaign to keep its image shiny. 
From enforcing rules on the length of shorts to handing for­mer All-Star Sprewell the harshest non-drug-related penalty in league history, the NBA has been asserting its authority as labor troubles loom. 
The league has the right to reopen the collective bargaining agreement with the players union, and many agents and team personnel expect a lock­out to begin July 1 and carry into the fall, threatening the start of next season. 
Perhaps not coincidentally, none of the league's trouble­makers are around for the weekend's festivities. 
Dennis Rodman, on his way to an unprecedented seventh con­secutive rebounding title, was not voted in by the fans or the Eastern Conference coaches. He will be partying in Los Angeles and Las Vegas over the break. 
Chris Webber and Rod Strickland of Washington, both of whom have been in trouble with the law, weren't voted in. And the all-Cornrow team of Allen Iverson, Rasheed Wallace and Sprewell will be elsewhere, too. 
The biggest malcontent may be West coach Karl. 
Despite winning an average of more than 60 games over the past four seasons, Karl has been left hanging by Seattle management in his quest to get a contract extension. Relations between Karl and the front office are so bad that the cnach grew a shaggy beard and refused to cut his hair in a show of rebelliousness. 
Bird backed off his earlier stance that he never wantPd to be a part of another All-Star weekend; he didn't want to take anything away from what his Indiana Pacers have accom­plished. The team has the best record in the East, earning Bird the coaching spot. 
Many of the league's general managers are making the trip to New York. The game is being held just 11 days before the trading deadline, and there could be some movement in stalemated talks that have kept Damon Stoudamire in Toronto, Joe Smith in Golden State and Richmond in Sacramento. 
"Any time you get this many general managers together with the trade deadline looming and guys rumored to be on the block, you're going to have a lot of trade conversations," Knicks general manager Ernie Grunfeld said. 
Stern and union director Billy Hunter will have their gag order lifted over the weekend so they can discuss the Sprewell arbitration case, which has dragged on for two weeks and threatened to put a damper on the league's annual party. 
On Saturday, an experiment in the assimilation of the WNBA into All-Star weekend takes place when a new skills event, 2-ball, replaces the popular but stale slam-dunk contest. Eight women from the sister league will pair with NBA players from the same cities for 2-ball, a shooting event in which players alternate shots from designated spots on the court. 
The rookie game, million-dol­lar shot and 3-point shootout remain in place for All-Star Saturday. 
"The All-Star game hasn't been in New York for 30 years," Grunfeld said, "and we think it's going to be one of the best ever." 
Pre ­Valentine's Sale Snite Museu01 Shop Most Ite01s 50°/o off Posters, Cards, Books, T-Shirts, Puzzles, Utnbrellas, Jewelry, Crystal, Silk scarfs & ties and tnuch tnore... February 6 and 7, 1998 10-5 ptn  


page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, February 6, 1998 
• MEN's SWIMMING AND DIVING 
ND swimmers looking to feast on home cooking 
'\AN:c·E..
.,/ ....J

Tyson will 'enforce' in WWF 
Bonnies and Irish will renew rivalry this weekend 
ByMATIYUNG 
Sports Writer 
There is no place like home and after an extPnded, competi­tion-less absence of over two months from Rolfs Aquatic Center, the Notre Dame men's swim­ming team will have the full support of the fans this Saturday. Starting at 11 
a.m. the Irish will dual St. Bonaventure University out of southwest New York and try to keep their five-meet win streak in taet. 
This year's meet is similar to last year's at St. Bonaventure when the Irish headed east with their heads high and a four-dual winning streak. They returned with their tails between their 
•wwF 


Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Mike Tyson is getting involved in wrestling not for the money, but because it's what he wants to do. But he wouldn't do it for nothing. 
The former heavyweight champion scoffed at suggestions he is in financial trouble and avoided answering questions at a World Wrestling Federation news conference about whether he is handling his own affairs, free of promoter Don King and managers Hory Holloway and John !!orne. 
However. after the news con­ference Tyson said he thought the differences would work themselves out. 
A'>ked about report<; he has tax problems and is short of cash, Tyson said: ''I've got more money that you'll ever see in your life. I'm financially secure." 
The man whose purses have topped $100 million in his last six lights said he would tw mak­
., 
CHEERLEAD ING 
ing a little more than $3.5 mil­lion for playing the "enforcer" in the WWF championship match between WWF champion Shawn Michaels and Stone Cold Steve Austin in pay-per-view Wrestlemania IVX on March 29 at Boston. 
"I just want to participate in this sport," Tyson said. "I find it very interesting. But I'm a pro­fessional athlete. I wouldn't make a fist if you didn't pay me." 
WWF owner Vince McMahon, speaking at the Official All-Star Cafe, said Tyson would not be in the ring March 29. 
"Mike Tyson will in effect be the enforcer on the outside of the ring in sort of a referee capaci­ty," McMahon said. "He might not stay outside the ring." 
Tyson is trying to regain his boxing license in July from the Nevada State Athletic Commission, which revoked it after Tyson bit Evander Holyfield's ears during a June 28 bout. 
legs. 
The all-time series record against St. Bonaventure is 22-8 in favor of the Irish, and a Notre Dame win would push the team's record to a commendable 10-1. It would also keep the team's hope of going down as one of the best teams in Irish his­tory alive. 
Junior Jim Kelly, arguably SHU's best swimmer, will go head-to-head with James Scott­Browne or Scott Zumbach in the 500-meter freestyle. Kelly has swam a 4:32 500-meter freestyle. The Irish record is 4:35. 
Senior speedster Ron Royer is favored in the 50-meter freestyle and sophomore Ray Fitzpatrick looks good in the 200-meter freestyle. 
Irish junior breaststroker Steele Whowell will get a chance to battle SBU's tall, powerful, and vastly improved senior Ped Coshow. 
Irish diver Herb Huesman, who is on a hot streak, looks for­ward to dazzling the fans with 
his crowd-pleasing reverse 1 1/2 off the three-meter board. X.ie, the Irish diving coach. Hopefully we'll keep it up and somersault, 2 1/2 twist dive, and Huesman will captain his own "The guys have really swam get a third or fourth place finish inverted 2 1/2 somersault dive ship in the absence of Caiming well and I've dived well. in the Big East," Huesman said. 

SAINT MARY'S DANCE WORKSHOP CO. 
As for how Tyson's Wrestlemania appearance might affect his chances for reinstate­ment, McMahon said he's been told the commission has "no problem whatsoever with Mike being involved with the WWF in any capacity." 
'Tve done nothing wrong," Tyson added. 
As for his boxing future, he said: "''m not bigger than box­ing. Boxing doesn't need me. I can survive without boxing; box­ing can survive without me." 
Ill 
:z: 
1­

join the tradition. 
Applications ~re now hein~ accepted for manager positl~ns at the Alumni ..Senior Club for the I 998-99 academic school year. You may pick up applications at.,the Office of Student Activities, 3I 5 LaFortune. '.. 
'i:¥ 
DEADLINE: FEBRUARY 27' 1998. 
Attn: Men 
Come check out the exciting sport of cheerleading, Notre Dame's only COED v~rsity team. ~he program is in need of athletic and outgomg men_. No previous stunting or gymnastic background requ1red. 
BE A PART OF NOTRE DAME TRADITION 
The cheer program needs talented women too. Please join us at the: 
Information Meeting 
ALUMNI

Ill
SENIOR 

:z: 
1­
Thurs., Feb. 26 -6:30 p.m. Gym I, Joyce Center 
-c--­

Friday, February 6, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS 
• fENCING 
Irish fencers face top squad 
By ANTHONY BIANCO tournament, being ranked Spons Writer third means nothing for the Irish. 
The Notre Dame fencing For two straight years, the team has taken the competi­team has finished second in tion by storm this season, the NCAA Championships. In defeating all the teams on its those two years Penn State schedule thus far. The owners has finished first. of a 16-0 men's record and a Much is the same as both 15-1 women's record, the teams head to the Joyce Irish are now ranked No. 3 in Center this weekend. The Irish the nation. seek to upset the top-ranked 
Focused on this weekend's Penn State Nittany Lions along 

Notre Dame is currently ranked third in the nation as it enters one of its toughest tournaments of the season. 
with nine other regional com­petitors in the Irish-hosted weekend tournament. The women's team will also look for fierce fencing from Ohio State to make this tournament one of its toughest match-ups of the season. 
The women will again be led by the epee team. 
"Women's epee is definitely our strongest squad," said head coach Yves Auriol "And, of course, we expect Magda Krol and Anne Hoos to go undefeated. But that is noth­ing new." 
This tournament will also be a proving ground for the women's foil and men's epee and foil squads. They will look for consistent fencers to emerge and add depth to the squads. · 
Although Myriah Bwwn and Sara Walsh will lead the foilists, they will be looking for a third fencer to emerge. 
"This is the squad we'll need the most work on," explained Auriol. "We cannot beat them with just two fencers." 
The team has played down the importance of this dual­meet tournament. 
"It's only a dual meet. It will mean nothing for the champi­onships," Auriol said. "We won't take anyone for granted; we have to keep fencing intensely." 
But beating Penn State will certainly give the Irish the confidence they need in the NCAA Championships, which means so much more than the No. 3 ranking they currently hold. 

it~'~'f';:!'~FeG':!KiS:rr:J!!rnn:v?MlBW~~tn::f~'~ffi"cfi~fillpra'fi'~Jlfprvr:''t 1j(lslun;?rlft!f«J'IYf':mjij'%!p:F''K.1taw~s't''re·a'ffitcil~:mp,ft;R~MpT'''' ,., 
~OBSERV-~R 
is now accepting applications for the 
1998-99 General Board 
Any full-time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. Please submit a three-page statement ofintent with a resume to Heather Cocks by Monday, Feb. 9, at 5 p.m. For questions about the application process or for more information about any position, call The Observer at 631-4542. 
NEWS EDITOR Applicants should have news reporting, writing and editing skills. The News Editor man­ages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story and series ideas and is responsible for the content of the news section each day. 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR Applicants should have editorial, writing and editing skills and an ability to deal with the public. The Viewpoint Editor manages a staff of copy and layout editors and columnists and decides what letters will run each day. 
SPORTS EDITOR Applicants should have sports reporting, writing and editing skills. The Sports Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and special sections, arranges travel accommodations for reporting trips and is responsible for the content of the sports section each day. 
ACCENT EDITOR Applicants should have features writing and editing experience. The Accent Editor man­ages editors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas, and is responsible for the con­tent of the Accent pages each day. 
PHOTO EDITOR Applicants should have photography and developing experience. The Photo Editor man­ages a staff of photographers and lab technicians and must work closely with News, Sports and Accent department editors in assigning photographs. 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR Any full-rime undergraduate student at Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. The editor manages Saint Mary's department heads, coordinates coverage with Notre Dame staff, generates story ideas on the Saint Mary's campus and is responsible for the Observer office at Saint Mary's. 
ADVERTISING MANAGER Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The Advertising Manager oversees an assistant and a staff of account executives and is responsible for gen­erating advertising revenue. 
AD DESIGN MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of QuarkX.press, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager oversees a staff of designers, works closely with advertising and marketing departments and is responsible for the design and layout of advertisements. 
DESIGN MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience, knowledge of QuarkX.press and design/layout and newspaper production experience. The Design Manager oversees a staff of illustrators and graphic designers and works closely with department staff on lay­out/design of special sections and training employees in Quark. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge of computer nerworking. The Systems Manager maintains and updates the Macintosh nerwork and printers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the use of the system. 
CONTROLLER Applicant must be a sophomore or junior majoring in accounting or finance at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. The Controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operat­ing budget and taxes, accounts payable, cost-tracking and other transaction duties. 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR Applicant must be familiar with building and maintaining a World Wide Web site. The Web Administrator is responsible for working with the editorial departments of The Observer in order to update and archive the content of the site each day. The Web Administrator also must be able to expand the capabilities of the site. 
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS 
• TRACK AND FIELD 
Tracksters prepare for Meyo 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN SportS Wrirer 
The Notre Dame track and field team will have the home field advantage today and tomorrow when it hosts the Meyo Invitational in Loftus Sports Center. 
Hopefully, that edge will prove big for Irish athletes as they face some of the toughest competition around. Notre Dame will be joined in the meet by Michigan, Michigan State, and Purdue, all mem­bers of the powerhouse Big Ten conference, as well as Kansas. llead coach Joe Piane has also invited several unat­tached runners. including two former Olympians and two finalists at the 1996 Olympic Trials. 
"We really want to use this meet for our distance people as a final tune-up for the Big East meet and for the sprint­ers as a chance to g.ct fast seed times for the Big East meet," said Piane. 
The marquis event of the invitational should be the men's mile. which will be held at 1:45 p.m. tomorrow. Participants include Michigan's Kevin Sullivan. a two-time Olympian for Canada who holds the fieldhouse record of 3:55 in the mile, the unattached Paul Sullivan. a '96 Olympian in the mile, Todd Williams, an unattached run­ner who competed in the 
10,000-meters in the 1996 Olympies, and Notre Dame's Jason Hexing and Mike Conway. 
"I want to go out there and have a good individual perfor­mance and build some confi­dnnce," said Rexing, an all­Ameriean on Notre Dame's distance medley relay team last year. "I think it'll definite­ly be the most competitive meet of the season so far, especially for the distance run­ners. Kevin Sullivan may be the best miler in North America." 
Other highly competitive events will include the men's pole vault and long jump and the women's 3,000-meter run, mile run, and 800-meter run. 
"Kansas has a long reputa­tion for having good pole vaulters, Michigan State's got a couple, and then throw Mike Brown in the mix if he's able to jump. The pole vaulting in general looks very good," said jumpers and throwers coach ·scott Winsor. "Every school that's coming in is pretty tough." 
Brown, last year's Big East ehampion in the pole vault and Notre Dame's record holder in the event, may be unable to compete because ·or a strained hamstring. 
In the men's long jump sev­eral athletes who have jumped over 24 feet will participate. Notre Dame's Marshaun West, whose best jump is 24'10", will be among the competitors. 
Notre Dame will try to put its runners in their best event, as this meet is not scored on a team basis. Cross-country run­ners Alison Klemmer, Janel Kiley, and Micke Walsh will all take part in their first 5,000­meter race of the track season. Patti Rice will run the mile, Nadia Schmiedt will make her first attempt at the pentathlon, and sophomore JoAnna Deeter will aim for a personal record in the 3,000-meter run. Deeter recently set a school record of 
9:46 in that event, and her toughest competition will come from the perennially tough Michigan distance runners. 
"I would like to better my time from last meet five or 10 seconds to run about 9:35, and maybe hit the automatic NCAA qualifying standard for the 3,000-meter run," said Deeter. 
"Basically, we're just going to try to run one race for each kid," said women's distance coach Tim Connelly. "That should let them try to run very well and just put all their effort into that one event. That way. they can get some good seed times for the Big East a couple weeks down the road, and we can get a good feel for what their best race is right now." 
One exception to the one race per runner standard for this weekend will be senior Danny Payton. who will take the line for the Irish in both the 500-meter run and the mile relay. 
"I just want to try to run well in preparation for the Big East meet in a couple weeks," said Payton. "I try not to think about the competition. I try to just focus on running my best." 
Tonight's events will be the men's weight throw and both men's and women's events in the distance medley, 5,000­meter run, pentathlon, and triple jump. Field events will begin at 6 p.m. and running events start at 7 p.m. All other events will be held tomorrow, leading off with field events and preliminary running events at 10:30 a.m. and finals in running events from 1 to 4 
p.m. The meet should be an exciting one for fans to watch with the quality of athletes competing. 
"The announcer we have will get people into it," said Piane. 
Friday, February 6, 1998 

Senior Jason Rexing has to be on top of his game as the Meyo Invitational draws a competitive field to Loftus Sports Center. 

aa Flral llappf :aau. 
Magan 

Le,, fur, &izz, Jeanine.. Katie, Keysia, lrn, Charles, and ftRuth" 
~"""'\\l"'l!'i\\\~~\ll\~.,.-·••"""'·""''''""'''-''''"~~.....,.,..~~~1\'1~·~\\l\1\1\\'W.~-··. ... · · , ·, ···::. . 
1'4ADE L..OI.ID... I L> I$E 
Pl-AYtD ~! 
Cinema at the Snite Fri. &Sat. 7:30 and 9:45pm 
XVKKK Winter Olympics 
Ope-14i14'f ee-~e-~c-14~ P~~t~ 
LaFortune Student Center Main Lounge 
February 6, 1998 
10:00 p.m. -11 :OOp.m. 
LaFodtAne SttAdent Centet-<'s Main Lor.-1nge will be tt-<ansfot-<med into Nott-<e Dame's 111An"official site to watch the feattAt-<ed events of the XVlllll[ Wintet' aames! 
Stay tuned for more events, times. food, and prizes! 

....... 

...... 
...... 

---~---~----­
Hockey 
continued from page 28 
focusing on their defense this week in practice. Last weekend against Michigan, too many opposing team players were loose in front of the net, according to freshman forward Dan Carlson. They were able to get off clean shots from close range, and that impactnd the games tremendous­ly. 
"We need to tighten up our defense and that's something that we've worked on in practice. There were too many open shots last W!\ekend. We have to do a better job of covering guys and eliminating the open shot. This weekend we are really aiming to play a physical game and play the teams very tough in front of our net," said Carlson. 
Urick agreed. "We have got to play more intense defense, and we've worked a lot on that in practice this week. We're going to try to clog up the neutral zone and eover their men better." 
Notre Dame's penalty-killing 
numbers reflect this need for 
improvement in front of its own net. The Irish are eighth in the league in kill penalties at the rate of 81 percent. 
What has been working very well for Notre Dame is its power play. 
"Our power play has been very good," said Carlson. "But we have to keep it up, because it has given us a lot of chances to score." 
The Irish have the third-best power play in the league, convert­ing on 18.5 percent of their chances. They trail only Michigan and Michigan State in this depart­ment. For the Irish to come up with two victories and four huge points this weekend, the power play will have to continue to flour­ish. 
"If we keep the power play rolling, we have a much better chance of winning games," stated· Urick. 
The team is excited and ready for this huge weekend. They understand its importance but are not intimidated or nervous about the outcome. . 
"We can get home ice advantage if we get on a roll," stated Urick. 
"We are just taking this one game at a time and aren't getting caught up in any distractions," The Observer/Joe Stark 
added Carlson.• 
Most Affordable Student Housing 

Taking Applications for the '98-'99 School Year and May-August Summer Rentals. 
TOlVJCHT 
Friday February & 
Freshman Mark Eaton and the Irish defense hope to step up their intensity this weekend. 
Need a job? The sports department is hiring. Contact Michael Edward Day. 
BB! liE 


7PM-9PM Open Viewing 7PM Open Ceremonies 
THJS W££1(£i\ID 
Saturday February 7  Sunday Fahruary 8  
12PM-5PM  Open Viewing 12PM-5PM  Open Viewing  
4PM  Closing Ceremonies  


~-~---~--­

page 24 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, February 6, 1998 
• OLYMPICS 
First-ever Olympic women's hockey draws near 

Associated Press 
NAGANO, Japan 

Some people are surprised to learn there are goons in women's hockey. This is hardly news to Karyn Bye. She already has a collection of cheap shots from some of the world's best. 
Two days remain before the first game of the first-ever Olympic women's tournament and Bye, a forward and the alternate captain of the U.S. women's team, can't remember the last time she took inventory. What's more, she doesn't care. 
Wait this long for a game of your own, sacrifice the way Bye and so many of these women have, and the threat of a knock here or there changes nothing. Especially if it comes, as antici­pated, against the Canadians in the gold-medal game some two weeks from now. 
"That one," said Bye, still nursing a charley horse dealt 
'Das Monster' ready· to dominate slopes 
Associated Press 
HAKUBA, Japan 

They call him The Beast, or the llerminator, or -back home in Austria-Das Monster. 
HerRlann Maier, a mild-man­nered former bricklayer, has earned his reputation as a terri­fying creature on the ski slopes this season. He has dominated the World Cup season, winning 10 of the 30 events so far. 
But what about the Olympics? 
Though Maier is favored in three events -downhill, Super­G and giant slalom -course conditions may provide the ehal­lenge that none of his competi­tors have been able to muster this season. 
Maier admits the Happo'one downhill course may be too slow for his aggressive style. He prefers a course with lots of jumps. 
"For me, it's not so good. It's too flat for me," Maier said after posting the third-fastest time in Thursday's training run, the first of three practice sessions before Sunday's race. 
U.S. men's coach Bill Egan said there may be another fac­tor working against Maier -the 
.. 
her by Canada's enforcer, Haley Wickenheiser, in an exhibition last week, "will be as rough as the refs let it be." 
What the women's game lacks in mayhem -bodychecking is not allowed; they almost never drop their gloves and trade punches -it more than makes up in desire. As late as age 14, Bye was still playing in boys' leagues to find decent competi­tion -and still hiding that fact by listing her initials in the pro­gram instead·of-her name. 
When goalie Sarah Tueting was 6 she would go the rink with her brother and sit behind the goal with her face pressed against the glass. Her parents assumed she had a crush on the boy mindiug the net. What she really lusted after was his equipment. The night her par­ents bought her a set of used goalie pads, and every night after that for the rest of the week, she slept with them. 
soft snow in Hakuba. It's natur­al, meaning it's not as hard, or fast, as the man-made snow Maier is used to skiing through in Europe. 
"I don't know how well he skis on soft snow. He skis extremely well on hard snow," Egan said. "If the snow is not extremely hard, like a parking lot, that may make it difficult for him." 
Maier is at his best in difficult conditions. He was rejected by the Austrian ski team as a skin­ny 15-year-old, and developed his talent on bumpy, rutted courses far from the well­groomed slopes used by the national squad. 
After giving up skiing for three years as a teen-ager because of knee problems, he built a heavi­ly muscled frame while working as a bricklayer and forced his way onto the Austrian team just last season. 
This year, he has been nearly unbeatable. 
Maier has won two downhills, three giant slaloms, a combined event and all four of the Super-G races on the World Cup circuit. Austrians have dominated the competition, with wins in 22 of the 30 men's events. 
Just about every woman on the U.S. team could tell a simi­lar story: 
Captain Cammi Granato fol­lowed three older brothers to a frozen field across the street from their house in suburban Chicago; Alana Blahoski got too cold standing around the out­door rinks in Minnesota where her brother skated to stay a spectator for long; Lisa Brown­Miller started out playing with the boy next door because she thought the equipment was cool. 
"By now," Bye said, "we're getting a lot of the same ques­tions. But yeah, I think you could say all of us are living our dream." 
In women's sports, even non­chalance is hard-earned. A few of the veterans were already part of the national team pro­gram when the International Olympic Committee extended official recognition to the sport 
Trinkl wins first ski race 
Associated Press 

HAKUBA, Japan 
Hannes Trink! punched his fists into the air and beamed with excitement. He had just won the first ski race of the Olympics, a day before the Nagano Games begin. 
Trink! won a spot on the Austrian Olympic team by ski­ing to the fastest time in Friday's downhill training ses­sion. Five other Austrians will compete for the final spot dur­ing Saturday's final training run. 
While other skiers are using the training runs to warm up for Sunday's downhill, the Austrians are using them to pick a team. 
Announcing The 3rd Annual Keough Summer Internships 
In 

STUDY IRISH POLITI 
trom the 

109 Hurley Building. 
The applicatiOns are due by Monday, March 2, 1998 
in 1992. Nearly everyone else was in the pipeline by the sum­mer of 1996, when the gold medals won by their counter­parts in soccer, softball and basketball at the Atlanta Games brought their own mission into sharper focus. 
"By doing so well, they turned some heads," forward Shelley Looney said. "And in the case of basketball, at least, they also opened up some very big oppor­tunities." 
Here, Looney paused and scanned the stage in the large auditorium where she and her teammates had gathered Thursday for a series of inter-. views. As strong a bond as their shared past provided, their vision for the future is nearly as potent. 
For some, the hunger to play is barely satisfied with a game of their own. They want more: a pro league of their own. 
But few can afford illusions. 
"It's perfect for me. Now I don't have to worry," Trink! said. 
"Today is like a race, so I am nervous. But it is good if you are nervous. because you are motivated." 
Clouds began sweeping across the Happo'one course midway through the training run after a morning of bright sunshine. 
Heavy snow is forecast for the men's downhill on Sunday, forcing officials to already begin making contingency plans in case of delays or post­ponements. 
Friday's training run was won by Didier Cuche of Switzerland in 1 minute, 52.30 seconds. Cuche, who had green hair when he won a World Cup downhill earlier this season at Kitzbuhel, Austria, is sporting a military­style haircut for the Olympics. 
"I wanted to be fast today, but I could not imagine I would be so good," he admitted. "I was surprised with my time." 
Trink! was second in 1:52.39, edging compatriots Stefan Eberharter and Fritz Strobl by a quarter of a sec­ond. Another Austrian, Werner Franz, slipped midway through the course and finished in 1:52.79. 
Franz won Thursday's train­ing run, but that won't be good enough to get him a place in the Olympics unless he also wins Saturday. 
The "old woman" of the squad, the 31-year-old Brown-Miller, has put off her honeymoon for three years now to soldier on in the program. A few others have put careers and college on hold. Looney is such a pragmatist that to limit her downtime, just three days after the 1997 world championships, she underwent knee surgery in the morning and facial surgery that after­noon. 
And yet, already 26, she does not expect to take the next step herself. She even doubts whether things will have changed fast enough for even the two teen-agers on the squad, 18-year-old Angela Ruggiero and 19-year-old Jenny Schmidgall, to do so. 
"The way most of us have it in our heads," Looney said, "is that we don't want it to start up if it's not ready. Because if it fails, it will take twice as long to bring it back up again." 
Friday, February 6, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 25 
• VOLLEYBAll ... ­
Volleyball squad nets three more blue-chippers 
By BILL HART Sports Writer 
After recording one of the strongest seasons in recent history, Notre Dame's volley­ball team will now look to improve on its record after head coach Debbie Brown signed three high schools seniors to national letters of intent yesterday afternoon. 
"This is an excellent and bal­anced class," Brown said. "This class provides us with one lertside player, one middle blocker, and one rightside player. They each come from excellent programs and we feel that they will be a great fit at Notre Dame." 
While the Irish lose four players that compromised one of the most successful classes in history, the three players that make up the class of 200.2. Marcie Bomhack. Malinda Goralski and Kristine Kreher, show a promising future for Notre Dame's volleyball squad. 
Bomhack, a 6-foot outside hitter from Waukesha, Wis., was one of 24 players recently named to the Volleyball Magazine all-America squad. After leading her high school to the 1997 state title, she was named as a finalist for the Gatorade state player-of-the­year award. Bomhack also played club volleyball for the Milwaukee Sting, helping them to the national semifinals while earning first team all-America honors. 
"The first thing that stands 
out about Marcie is her hitting 
skills," Brown said. "She also 
is a very good blocker and has 
experience playing every posi­tion in the front row. She will bring a lot to the net in terms of player and overall competi­tiveness." 
Goralski, a 6-foot-1 middle blocker from Missouri City, Texas, will be the third player on the '98 Irish from the Lone Star state. After making a ver­bal commitment to Notre Dame at the conclusion of the '97 Irish summer volleyball camp, she captained Clements High School to the '97 regional title, earning team MVP and all­state honors in the process. 
"When I came on my visit, I wanted to meet all the players and make sure that I fit in," Goralski said about joining the Irish. "I had a lot of fun there and everything clicked. I'm going to be working hard all summer so I can step in and help the team. We will have a lot of talent, so it should be a good year." 
"Malinda is a good natural blocker," Brown said. "She also moves well laterally and just loves to block. That's something you have to have if you are going to be a good blocker." 
Kreher, a 6-foot-1 rightside hitter from Birmingham, Mich., is currently in her second year as captain of the Marian High School team, which is current­ly ranked fifth in Michigan, where volleyball is played as a winter-season sport. Last year, she was named Marian's MVP along with all-state honors. She also earned MVP honors with the USA Michigan under­18 squad, helping the team place second in the AAU state tournament. 
"I've been to several football games at Notre Dame and always wanted to go here," Kreher said about her deci­sion. "I got a great feeling from the players and the campus, and the coaches are wonderful people who are easy to talk to." 

"We are very excited with the versatility that Kristy will provide," Brown remarked. "She is a classic rightside hit­ter but can go on the left if we need her to. But she has a great lefthanded swing and plays well in the backrow. She'll be an important player for our program." 
Notre Dame will return 11 players from its 1997 team. Next year's returnees account­ed for 83 percent of the team's assists and 79 percent of the blocks last season, but will only return 50 percent of the kills, primarily due to the grad­uation of seniors Angie Harris and Jaimie Lee. However, probably be some shifting in the positions with some of the veterans. Still, we have a cou­ple of versatile returners, and that gives us the luxury of moving some players as need­ed next season." 

Brown believes the recruiting class shows a lot of promise. 
"Each of the incoming play­ers is a very strong candidate at her respective position and yet we are losing two starting leftside hitters. There will 

OTE IN MONDAY'S PHI ARY ELECTION 
&GET AFREE FOUNTAIN DRINK AT THE ~;;/l HUDDlE MART IN lAFORTUNE. 
• 

• 


---.----------~----------------------------------------------~------------------------· 
page 26 
Irish 
continued from page 28 
night with 10 points and 12 rnbounds. 
Thn glaring bright spot for the Irish in the game was Phil Ilit:key. The junior, who had bnnn in a slump. r.ame off the bench and did not seem to want to go back. Hickey scored a earner-high 20 points and collected night rebounds. lie also played solid defense on Hutgers' Earl Clark. 
"Phil lliekey's performance was really encouraging," MacLeod said. 
Behind the play of lliekey and Manner, the Irish wt~re down just a bucket with a little OVI)r thren minutes left in the half. The Knights ended the half in a flurry as they went on a I 0-0 run heading into the 

.. loeker room "Wn were in pretty good shape there," MaeLeod said. "It was 2R-26; the next thing 
we knew it was 40-28." 

Hutgers pounded the offen­sive glass in the first half and hit six three-pointers. inelud­ing one that beat the halftime buzzer. 
The Big East player of the year, who was held to just nine points at Hutgers a year ago, was not going to be bot­tled up all night. 
Garrity seored his first field goal with 16:54 left in the game, which ignited a Notre Dame run. The senior captain scored the next seven Irish points and assisted on a Wyche bucket to shrink the lead to just two points. 
After a time out. Ingelsby gave the Irish a 44-43 lead on the team's only three-pointer on the evening. 
Hutgers responded from Notre Dame's run and remained close until Sam Sanders tied the game at 56 with a three-pointer and Hodgson gave his squad the lead for good. 
"Pat was starting to cook," 

The Observer· SPORTS 
MacLeod said. "But we made some mistakes there at the end of the game. We threw the ball away and we didn't really penetrate like we should have from a guard stal)dpoint." 
The Knights also enjoyed a bit of home eooking as 17 of their 31 second-half points came from the eharity stripe. 
"We held them to 38 percent shooting on their floor and they did shoot 33 free throws and we only shot 18," MacLeod pointed out. "So we didn't get to the line very many times. We were driving to the basket; we just didn't get the fouls." 
Rutgers backcourt wreaked havoe as Earl Johnson seored 21 while Geoff Billet added 17. 
MaeLeod also diseussed why his offense struggled down the streteh. 
"We pushed it up to a three­point lead but we stopped get­ting the ball to Pat Garrity. He was really cooking and we stopped getting the ball in there to him, so that really affected us." 
lliekey gave the Irish proba­bly his best effort in an Irish uniform, but it was not enough as the offense struggled with one of its main offensive weapons on the beneh in the form of Friel's sweet jumper. 
"In the last two or three minutes we started to stand around and got really tenta­tive," MaeLeod said. "Keith Friel would have given us a boost -there is no doubt about that -but you have to play within your head." 
MaeLeod hopes that his team will be able to continue its pat­tern of being able to bounce bae k after a dis a p pointing loss. 
The squad will have that opportunity when it travels to Georgetown on Saturday. The Hoyas will enter the eontest with an overall record of 11-9 and a dismal Big East record of 4-8. 
John Thompson's squad has only lost three at home this year. But he will be without 
Friday, February 6, 1998 

The Observer/John Daily 
Senior Derek Manner turned in a double-double last night as he was a terror underneath the boards for the Irish. 
the services of mammoth een-"llopnfully he'll be abln to ter Jahadi White. An ankln play Saturday," MacLeod said. injury sidelined White, who "But at this stage wn just was averaging 10 points a aren't sure." game. If the sophomon~ is not able 
To complicate mattnrs for to dress, the Irish will neNI Thompson, his starting point more produetion from their guard and leading scorer backcourt. Kenny Brunner is question-MacLeod also feels th· t hts able. Brunner averages 11.3 squad will be able to move on points and 7.3 assists per from last night's loss. game, but missed the last "We did a lot of good things game for personal reasons. in tonight's game; we were 
After just one three-pointer very good defensively early," from his team last night, MacLeod said. MacLeod hopes Friel will be "There are certainly a lot of able to play despite his thigh good things we can take from contusion. this game." 
The Observer/John Daily 
Junior center Phil Hickey was a constant force for coach John Macleod last night, pouring in a career-high 20 points. 
• 
Interested in for Class Office? 
Elections open to all students in good academic & social standing 
You must attend one of the following informational meetings: 
Monday, February 9 or Tuesday, February 10 at 7:00 in Haggar Game Room 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
?~o//3 ~~dl~'flflJo/11JJfJ(j3 y~~Q :$~@'til 71~~ :5rJJ~~o/JA~ 
:$@'t!JJ~@)1/J~ 7)~~ fj@fit 
.~~~~A~~/1 
0BSERUER URLENTINE Ros Now RURILRBLE 
SAMPLE Ao: Please call 631-6900 Between lOam and Spm 
Monday thru Friday to reserve your Valentine ad. 
-------------------~-----­
Friday, February 6, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 27 

MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
IT '5 A SHAI1F: ABouT IN HAT's HIIPPENt!lr; '../I I H I Hf PR£ 5 I~D,::::E..:.,:N_;_,T-=---,--­
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

DILBERT 
DID YOU GO FOR 
I GOT A BOMB THREAT. I DIDN'T TELL ANYONE E.L5E I 'JUST IN CA5E 
IT WAS A' HOA~. 
.
. 
u 
-g 
~ 
Ul 

58 Nicholas Gage best seller 61 Gardener's role &21n --(as found) 63 Kind of machine 64 Late Norwegian king 65 Set foot (on) 
66 Braves Hall-of-Farner Warren 
67 Townshend of the Who 68 Horned vipers 
DOWN 
1 Benefits 

2 Spain's Saint 
Teresaof-­3 Rope fiber 4 Spanish 
beaches 5Milky 6 A foot in a line 7Do in a Small liqueur 
glass 9 Fact-filled reference 1oOne of a bicycle 
pair 11 Bad start? 12 They're 
fertilized 13 Juan Carlos, e.g. 
'=t-=t-::+-:-+.:::+.::-t 21 "--the end of my rope!" ..t=t:+.:=iiiill 22 Merit -..::....L.::...J...::.....• 25 Clerical scarf 
26 Caterwauls 28Watfle 
29 Cheap-seeming 30 Vitamin bottle 
info 31 Florists' needs 32Taj-­33 Cubic meter 35 Verily 37 Fragrant lily 41 Jubilance 42 Jewell of "The 
Facts of Life" 43 Merit 
EUGENIA LAST 

outcome. 
Libra -The right words at the right time prevent others from making embar­rassing assumptions about you. Learn from this experi­ence the next time you feel a snap judgement coming on. Everyone deserves a fair hearing. 
Scorpio -Someone else's strong need brings out your compassionate side. This is not unusual, but today's cir­cumstances surprise you. Go with your mood instead of your intellect. 
Sagittarius -Your first instinct may be your best one today. You will be drawn into the subtext of other people's problems if you pay attention too closely. Do not try to solve what you cannot understand. 
Capricorn -You may need to put your plans on hold until a domestic prob­lem has been addressed. You are unhappy about a delay, but ignoring the situa­tion would be unwise. Be very flexible today. 
Aquarius -A forgotten obligation catches up with you today. You may regret an old promise, but you would do well to honor it. If the spirit of an agreement escapes you, at least observe the letter of it. 
Pisces -Everyone knows there's something special about you, but no one can put his finger on what it is. 
.. 
-
DAN SULLIVAN 
You 'Rl 1ALKtNCi ABouT 4RIFF/N 
MIKE PETERS 
SCOTT ADAMS 

IT WAS ONLY YESTERDAY THA.T I WAS SAYING 
M.Y MORALE COULDN'T 
BE LOWE.f\. I BOUGHT A 
LOTTE.RY TICI<.ET TO INCREASE THE POTENTIAL 
) 

YOUR HOROSCOPE 
Aries -Your day is best spent doing useful things that also please you. If you or someone else wastes your time, there could be trouble. Housecleaning activities are favored today. 
Taurus -Speak your mind to someone who mat­ters. If what you have to say is difficult, soften the blow by meeting in friendly sur­roundings. You are not scor­ing a point, merely express­ing how much you care. 
Gemini -If you need to cry, go ahead -it will prob­ably help. Emotions are the currency of the day, and there may not be a rational explanation for everything. Avoid people who will not understand you. 
Cancer -An event or emotion from the past appears in your mind and gives you a few warm moments of memory. You are the sum of your experi­ences, a welth of good, valu­able lessons. 
Leo -Home is where the heart is, but watch what goes into your stomach. Sometimes it is possible to experience the world too fully. Moderation is easy if you pay attention to what your body is telling you. 
Virgo -This is good day for group activities. Others fit easily into your plans. Support and advice are given freely. You may be the one organizing it all, but everyone gets to share in the 
IRONY. 


44 Black 56 Lacquered 48 Rest after 
metalware 

almuerzo 57 Olympics 51 Expositions preliminary 52 Camera setting 58 Staff of Life: 
Abbr.

53 Supports for laths 59 Impudence 55 Kind of talk 60 Greek letter 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

Wanted: Reporters and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 A pin may go 
through it 5 Cirrus cloud formation 
9 Ankylosaur feature 14 Base 15 Angelic symbol 16 Sabbatical, e.g. 17 One of TV's Simpsons 18 One-named supermodel 19II's spoken in Kuala Lumpur 20 Improvise, as a historian? 23 Deli buy 24 Impatient 27 Pane frame 29 Rat 
31 Can. heads 34 Ramsey Lewis Trio song about Taoists? 36 Witness stand 
statement 38 Bear lair 39 Cinders in old 
strips 40 Film about burgling 
partners? 
45 Count finish 
46 What "nobody 
doesn't like" 47 Hankers 49 Old Renault 50 One-person 
boats 54 Baker's quote from "Romeo and Juliet"? 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
..t:::+::+.:::-+7~~ -7+.~~ ~~:=:-+,:::+=:;;.t 
-
• 
.-----------------------------------------------------------------~----­
SPORTS Weekend 
page 28 
• MEN's BASKETBALl 

Irish can't break pattern 
By JOE CAVATO Assistant Spans Ediwr 
It's almost like clockwork. 

One hardly needs to tune into Notre Dame basketball games anymore. 
Over the past couple of weeks the outcome of Irish contests games have become as predictable as the sun ris­ing. If' it is possible to be con­sistently inconsistent, the hoops squad has done so. 
Head coach John MacLeod's squad turned in a terrific effort on the road Thursday, but came up a couple of min­utes short against Rutgers, 71­61. 
The Irish erased a 12-point deficit at halftime by the 14­minute mark of the second half. In fact they found them­selves up by three with five minutes left in the game, but could not finish the job over Rutgers, who improved to 9-11 
• 
The Observer/John Daily 
Pat Garrity rebounded from a one-point first half to score 13 in the sec­ond half of last night's 71-61 loss to Rutgers . 
• HOCKEY 

-

overall and 3-9 in the Big East while the Irish fell to 11-8 and S-6. 
"In the second half we were able to erase that deficit and got three points ahead," MacLeod said. "That was phe­nomenal control of the defen­sive war and running out for easy baskets." 
With offensive sparkplug Keith Friel in dress cloths, the backcourt game of' the Blue and Gold suffered. Neither Martin lngelsby nor Antoni Wyche could drain the big shot down the stretch. The lack of an outside threat also allowed the Knights' defense to con­centrate its efforts on Pat Garrity. 
Rob Hodgson blanketed Garrity in the first half. Garrity only managed one point in the first stanza as he missed all five of his field goal attempts. 
"Keith has that long range shot and we weren't shooting the ball well from outside," MacLeod said. "Martin was 2­for-1 0, Antoni was 3-for-1 0, and that's not good enough from outside." 
Center Phil Hickey and for­ward Derek Manner picked up the slack for MacLeod in the first half. Manner did most of his damage in the early going, helping the Irish out to the lead. The senior finished the 
The Observer/John Daily 
The Rutgers defense silenced Antoni Wyche and his backcourt mates see IRISH/ page 26 as the team connected on only one three-pointer for the evening. 
Notre Dame heads into pivotal stretch of season 

The Observer/Joe Stark The Notre Dame hockey team looks to improve its record at home when it hosts conference foes Bowling Green and Ferris State this weekend. 
• 
Men's Basketball 
at Georgetown, 
Track and Field, February 7, 12 p.m. 
Meyo Invitational, 
• 
TodayWomen's Basketball 
.,. 
vs. Sr. John's February 12, 7 p.m. 
~ 


weekend to Michigan. The! 
Irish square off against Bowling Green tonight and against Ferris State on Saturday night. Both games begin at 7 p.m. at the Joyce Center. 
Home games have been the Irish's bane rather than their boon this season. They are 2­4-3 in league play at home, but are 6-6 on the road. 
To reverse this trend, tlw Boys of Winter have been 
see HOCKEY I page 23 
JlsiJ Hockey 
~ Schedule 

~~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 

Feb. 6 BOWLING GREEN Feb.7 FERRIS STATE Feb. 13 OHIO STATE Feb. 14 at Western Michigan Feb.20 at Northern Michigan feb.21 at lake Superior State 
Bowling Green and Ferris State set to visit Joyce 
By CHARLEY GATES Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame's men hockey team will experience a defining moment in its season this weekend. Head coach Dave Poulin's squad (13-13-3) sits in a precarious seventh place in the Central Collegiate !Iockey Association standings with the top eight teams advancing to post-season play. 
The Irish share seventh place with Ferris State, trail sixth-place Lake Superior State by three points, and lead ninth-place Alaska-Fairbanks by six points. But this week­end gives the young and upcoming Irish a desperately needed chance to win two CCHA games, earn four points, and claw their way through the league standings. 
"We've got to start winning because we need to make a climb [in the standings]," explained junior forward Brain Urick, who saw his team drop two games last 
aJ 


• 
Basketball vs. Bethel College February 8, 2 p.m. see page 25 
Hockey vs. Bowling Green Tonight, 7 p.m. 
..e 

~ 
• Fencers host tournament see page 21 
• Volleyball lands three recruits 
~ 







