-
• ND football fell to Michigan State. For a • Movie Scene reviews Matt Damon's latest, along 
Monday
.-complete wrap-up, see the insert. 
-
with "Return to Paradise" and SO's video pick, "Better Off Dead."
' 
. 
SEPTEMBER
Irish Insider 
Scene·12 
14, 1998 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 14 WWW. N D.EDU/-OBSERVER 


Women make strides in national, campus politics 
Professor studies women in world governments 
By MAGGY TINUCCI Nrw' Writa 
Wonwn arn taking important strides in Pstablishing long-standing politi<:al powPr and influence, especially as mnmlu~rs of parliam1ml<> and Cabinnt ministers, accord­ing to a n~cnnt study by i\ndrnw Hnynolds, assistant pro­fl~ssor of governnwnt and intnrnational studies. 
HPynolds st~ns a gmwral tnmd toward positive change, although he admits that it will take timn. 
"lt could takP up to 50 ynars, but nvnntually politics will hnronw mon~ important than gendm·," Heynolds said. Tlw pPrrnption nends to changn to allow women to be srH111 as managt~rs. CEOs and lPaders in a patriarchal socinty, lw nxplainml. 
"\Vhat happnns when tlw wife is the political animal?" HPynolds askl'd. noting that thP challnnge of balancing a rari'Pr and raising the childrnn prnsrmts an obstacle to tlw potrmtial politir:allnadnrship of women. 
Hnynolds f(llmd that tlw number of women representa­tives in gov1~rnment was not related to the lnvd of democ­racy in a given country. lie poinL<> out that women cannot rl'ly upon governmnnt to place them in positions of power while concnding that it is very dillicult to overcome these obstades. 
"Social and cultural factors arn more important than the l1wel of democracy," Heynolds said. lie described that this can be broken down by establishing a legacy 


Tradition slow to change campus government 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY Assistant News Editor 
Andrea Selak is in a prime position to break down gender barriers. 
As vice president of Notre Dame's student govern­ment, Selak could be a likely candidate for student gov­ernment president when elections arc held in the spring. Selak, however, could be up against stilT compn­tition: tradition. 
In the 26 years since Notre Dame began admitting women to the University, a female has never held the position of student government president. 
Hunning for president is definitely not out of the question, Solak said. 
"In the past year since I was elected viee president, people have been asking mn if I will run for president, as if it is a huge challenge to overcome," she said. "Now is the time for a woman to be eleeted." 
Andrew Heynolds, assistant professor of government and international studies at Notre Dame, recently com­pleted a study regarding women in politics. The study The Observer/Jeff Hsu found that women remain underrepresented in govern­ment, which hinders the successful workings of govern­
Lewis Hall student senator Sophie Fortin speaks up at a 
ment.
recent student senate meeting. Women are finding increased opportunities to represent their peers. Reynolds sees the situation regarding the lack of 
towards women leaders of which future women politicians can look. i\ high level of sociom:onomic development and the cleetoral presence of a healthy left-wing political rnov1mwnt an~ good prndidions that a high number of women will be elected. 
H1~ynolds' resmtrr.h said that, among a total of 33,715 legislators worldwide, only 12.5 
see STUDY I page 4 

Schmuhl: Disclosure of details may favor Clinton 
By ROBERT PAZNORIK 
News Writer 
Sinl'l' the releasn of lndr•JWIHinnt Council Kennnth Starr's rnport last Friday, spec­ulation and 1:ontroversy regarding its findings have captivated llw nation. 
Though the long-a wait1HI release linal­ly brings truth to the public, thn 
public has started to Clinton qunstion wlwtlwr or not tlw graphic dPtails of t.lw rl'port arn appro­priatn to the investigation. Many I'VI'n argup that thn sor­did dl'tails of tlw report should not haVI' hnen made public at all. "It's a private rnalll'r that should lw lel't betwnon the prr~sidrmt and his family," said junior government major Stevn Kovatis. "The details of the report worn totally unneces­sary and have no biHtring whatsiHwer on tho nffnctive eompletion of Clinton's presi­dential term." Others argue that given the 

controversy surrounding the invnstigation, however, public release of the document was thn only viable method of quelling the unfounded rumors and hearsay which have plagued the investigation from its start nearly five years ago. 
"The Starr report is a gov­nrnmnnt document, and given the interest surrounding it, it is inevitable that it would be made wid1~ly availabh~ to the public,'' said Hobert Schmuhl, an NBC affiliate and head of the i\mnrican studies depart­ment. 
Though most people outsidn the political circle view the relnase of the report as the worst-possible case seenario for tlw Clinton administration. Srhmuhl believes that the full public diselosure may actually prove a boon to the floundering Dmnocratic presidency. 
"In an odd way, it is probably bnst to run the entire report and allow people to read it rather than allowing the media to do endless stories about [the report's I specific details," he said. 
Many political analysts also agree that current public reac­
see REPORT I page 4 women in high positions in the Notre Dame student government as something that will take time to change. 
"It takes time to get women elected to office and seen as equals," Heynolds said. "Once they get more involved in politics and begin to hold offices, people will say, 'Wow! It's shocking and amazing,' but the novelty wears off." 
But Reynolds pointed to several factors which influence why Notre Dame has yet 
see WOMEN I page 4 
University Provost Nathan Hatch (left) speaks to the student body at the Mass 
marking the formal opening ofthe schoolyear. Members ofthe Liturgical, Folk and Womens Choirs, along with the Brass Ensemble (below) provided music for the event. 
Photos by The Observer/Monica Garza 

page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

The Comeback Kids 
I roadtripped this weekend. 
Everybody says you have to do it at least once before you graduate, so we packed the car with friends, blankets, food and drink 
and headed east on ---------------­80/90 to exit 69. We 
Michelle Krupa were heading up to 
News Editor East Lansing to watch the Fighting Irish pound on MSU. The wishful itinerary includ­ed a beautifully warm, cloudless late summer day, a bountiful banquet of Subway sand­wiches and cold ale, and a night spent laugh­ing and celebrating with good friends. Well, the game didn't quite turn out as we'd planned. The scheduled win that was to move us toward the number-one spot in the Sunday papers eluded the Irish players, send­ing a dejected message to our little posse and many other dissapointed Irish fans. The end message was clear: Roadtripping to BC might not be so cool now that we're number 25. But, thanks to some good friends, I didn't have to watch the cruel trick the Spartans turned on the Irish Saturday night. After a beautifully warm, cloudless late summer day and a bountiful banquet of Subway sandwiches and cold ale (so far so good), we made our way into the fan-filled stadium just in time for the cone-like waving cheer that precedes every kick-off. We enjoyed the first quarter, sure that our boys would come back, and I suppose in some ways they did. Of course. I don't mean the boys in the golden helmets. Oh no, the boys that eventu­ally came back were the ones I'd traveled to East Lansing with, and at the end of the flrst quarter, I learned that they wouldn't be com­ing back without a little crowd support. So two of my lovely companions and I left the stadium with $200-cash worth of friend­ship and headed to MSU's police station to make sure our boys would be able to traverse the comeback trail. As it turns out, MSU police do not look kindly upon those fans who have had a little too much of the ale. After dropping names with a few weary officials, we finally found them N well, at least we knew where they would be for the next 10 to 12 hours. Without a reentry ticket, we walked to our car and listened to the din of far-off voices on campus that were certainly not the victory howl of Irish fans. We found a TV and shield­ed our eyes from the last few minutes of what seemed to be the steady massacre of our white jerseys. The ride home was definitely filled with laughter N "Ya think they made 'em take out their shoelaces?" And I suppose the celebrating came this morning N a good 10 to 12 hours into this morning. So I guess our roadtrip was realized, sans the Irish victory, and we really did get more than we bargained for. Some of us didn't have to watch the depressing football tourney N and now we know that they really do take your shoelaces. They also save all your day's bottle caps with your "personal possessions" and don't mind if you sing "Devil Went Down to Georgia" all night long. We got so much more than we set out for on our roadtrip. You gotta do it at least once. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TODAY's STAFF  
News  Graphics  
Bill Uniowski  Jenny Schaaf  
Noreen Gillespie  Production  
Finn Pressly  Kathleen Lopez  
Sports  Lab Tech  
Joe Cavato  Jeff Hsu  
Viewpoint  
Colleen Gaughen  
Scene  
Mike Vanegas  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vaca[ion periods. The Observer is a member of the Assod;ned Press. AH re-production righrs are reserved. 
~------­
The Observer· INSIDE Monday, September 14, 1998 




utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Harvard bars student convicted of rape from campus 
CAMBRIDGE. Mass. 
Six months after denying charges in the rape and assault of a Harvard undergraduate woman, junior Joshua Elster reversed his earlier pleas and accepted an agreement under which he will serve three years probation but no jail time. 
Elster pleaded guilty in Middlesex Superior Court to three counts of rape (for three different types of penetration), two counts of assault and battery and one count of inde­cent assault and battery. 
Under the conditions of the sen­tence issued by Judge Paul Chernoff. the former Kirkland House resident is prohibited from further contact with the victim and cannot walk on Harvard property or enter University buildings during the three years. 
After that time, Elster could legally return, pending approval by Harvard's Administrative Board. 
• DUKE UNIVERSITY 
Police issue warrant after explosion 
The Duke University police department has requested arrest warrants for three university students wanted in conjunction with an explosive device that caused slight injuries to a Trinity sophomore outside her Wannamaker dormitory room Sept. 8, Maj. Robert, dean of campus police, announced Thursday. Warrants have been issued for senior Peter Murphy, charged with malicious throw­ing of corrosive acid or alkali, and junior Clark Hamilton and sophomore Matthew Pritchard for aiding and abet­ting. Both crimes are felony offenses. Now that campus police has obtained the warrants, Dean said, the Durham police department will be responsible for serving the warrants and taking the students into custody. According to the Criminal Magistrate's ·office, the charge of mali­cious throwing of a corrosive acid or alkali is a Class E felony, punishable with between 25 and 47 months of jail time. Aiding and abetting is a common law charge -one step below a Class E felony -carrying a sentence of between 16 and 31 months. 
• VASSAR COLLEGE 
Eight bodies found near campus 
Eight bodies have been removed from the home of Kendall Francois on 99 Fulton Ave. since his arrest Sept. 3. Seven of the eight women whose decomposed bodies were found in the house were reported missing from the Poughkeepsie area in the past 22 months. according to The Poughkeepsie Journal. The other identified woman, Audrey Pugliese, had not previously been reported missing. or the eight reportedly missing women, six had been arrested for prostitution and several were known drug users. Francois, 27, lived with his parents and teenage sister in the house just blocks away from the college. Lathrop House president Dave Shanies attended a press conference Sept. 3 because he was con­cerned about rumors concerning the killings that were circu­lating on campus. "At this point, no one seems to care any­more, but last Thursday I was hearing rumors about how this related to the Vassar campus; I even heard that bodies were being pulled out of the Town Houses," said Shanies. 
• Sot.ITH BENO WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather111,) forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
H  L  
Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday·> /~. :-..~··  9, 82 Q, 75 ~82 ~. 85 l'[{J: 78  65 57 62 65 58  

Monday's Temperatures 
Atlanta 90 63 Dallas 83 72 Los Angeles 85 66 Baltimore 90 68 Denver 74 52 Miami 88 76
Q,~,~A.Q.Q !) ~ u 
Boise 87 57 Honolulu 89 75 New York 84 64 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Boston 76 56 Indianapolis 91 65 San Diego 75 65 
Via Assoctated Press GraphtcsNel 
Chicago 83 65 Las Vegas 95 65 Phoenix 102 81 

Elster is probably the flrst Harvard student to be charged and convicted of rape, according to longtime Harvard administrator and former Dean of the College John Fox Jr. Chernoff said that settling a rape case without a trial "makes a judge uncomfortable" but said he accepted 

• CLEMSON UNIVERSITY 
Mother of athlete dies during game 
In the midst of Saturday's Clemson-Furman football game, Rosa Adams suffered a heart attack ncar the south fenc of Memorial Stadium. Adams, age 57, fell near one of the restrooms at 2:26 p.m., during the third quarter. According to Captain Daniel of the University's fire and ambulance service, emergency medical technicians were on the scene in seconds. There was a team that was visible from where Adams had fallen. Numerous attempts to revive her were made before she was transported to Oconee Memorial Hospital where she was pronounced dead on arrival. Adams was the mothrr of Dymon Adams, a second team running back. IIe transferred to Clemson from Ellsworth Junior College in Iowa in January of 1998 and is a junior. According to University police chief Lonnie Saxon, members of the University police helped to trans­port members of the Adams family to the hospital after the incident. According to head coach Tommy West, Adams was on the field and dressed for the game when this occured. 
• lOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY 
Hackers create e-mail problems 
LSU students experiencing problems with e-mail accounts and Internet access during the first few weeks of school may have computer hackers to thank for it. "We're seeing all kind of hacker activity," said Honald llay, executive director of the ofTice of computing services. "There's a hell of a lot of nonsense going on." During the first two weeks of classes, the University experienced problems with Internet access and some e-mail accounts due to hackers. !lay said. "It's not only our site, but our Internet provider. Bel!South. has been having problems, too," Hay said. Approximately 150 accounts were compromised. The e-mail accounts which experienced the problems were Unix1 accounts, mostly held by graduate students and faculty, said Brian Hopers-I-Iuilman, systems analyst. The haeked accounts belonged to studenL'i who used easy-to-decipher passwords for logging in. The initial intrusion occurred at thn bngin­ning of June. 
the agreement struck by prosecutors and Elster's attorney. "Given the facts in the case the sentence is not the appropriate sentence, but it is the appropriate resolution in this case," he added. 
Elster, speaking through his attor­ney, had contended that he and the victim had engaged in consensual sex. 
But Assistant District Attorney Thomas O'Reilly told The Crimson that the prosecution had enough strong evidence to bring the case to trial, including pictures of a bruise on the victim's cheekbone and numerous scratches on her back and chest, reports by doctors and nurses and statements from witnesses who saw her immediately after the inci­dent. 
He added he does not view Elster as a serious enough threat to the community to require jail time. 
New genetic breeds may become disease resistant 
rlNN PRESSLY Ntw,Wrill'r 
Whf'll JwopiP think of' dnadly bloodsurkPrs. IPI'dws. bats and thl' IllS roml' to mind. 
Tlw most dangl'rous blood­surkPr or all. IHIWI'VI'I', is OIW that rnosl JH'opiP dismiss with a llirk of' till' hand: tlw mosquito, whirh ran rarry a dPadly vari1~ty of' disnasPs, ranging !'rom malar­ia to ypllow l'twPr to PIH'Pphalitis. 
;\ tParn ol' Not n~ I>amP sciPn­tists has madn advanrPs in fight­ing IIH•sn illnnssl's by t•mbarking on a projt•rt l.o gPIJPtirally Pngi­llf'f'r disPasP-rl'sistant mosqui­tot•s. l!l'rt•n-tl.v. sciPntists at ;\Jotrl' l>a11W, in conjuiH'tion with a lPalll ol' rPSI'arrlwrs from thn l'niVI'rsitv of' Califi,rnia at lrvirw. IH'gan I'X.ploring tlw lli'W nwthod ol' rontrolling mosquito-bonw ill­lli'SSI'S. 
"Tht• work that wc'rf' doing is largPiy hasPd around tlw con­t'f'Jll of insl'rt-transmittnd dis-1'/ISf' t'tJIJI.rol, whl'l'l' tlw goal is to modify llw ability ol' tlw insnl'l popui;Ilion to suj1porl. dPvnlop­1llf'nl of' tlw disPaSt' patlwgPn," said 1-'J·ank Collins. who !wads thP UnivPrsity's mosquito­rt'S<'an:h lt>am. Collins hopns that hy adding a lli'W gt~nP to tlw insPrt's DNA. it will lw physically unahln to carry and transmit a disnasn. 

The Observer/Kevin Dalum 

An open door reveals the interior of the mosquito lab, headed by Frank Collins, where researchers insert DNA into embryos in hopes of breeding mosquitos resistant to diseases such as malaria. 
So l'ar, scinntists haw passed a mosquito that is genetically into the egg and new DNA annually, making it one of tho tlw first crucial obstacle: They resistant to disease in the near inserted." Collins said. world's deadlinst disoases. havP sue1:t~ssfully introduced a future. The most dil'licult stum­Collins and the Notre Dame Ovor the years, sciontists haw gnrw into a i\edns aegypii bling block so far has b1~1m keep­team are concentrating tlwir tried to dnvelop a numbor ol' spocins that spn~ad the virusos ing the mosquito embryos alive efforts on thn mosquito ways to diminish tim threat that 
that 1:ausn yollow fever and after the injnction of tho new Anopheles gambiae, which is mosquitoes pose to humans. denguo. genes. the species msponsible for the because vaccines li>r many of the Collins said that he is opti­"It's pretty traumatic for the transmission ol' malaria. Malaria diseases thmnsolves arc unavail­mistic that his loam will produco nmbryo to have a hole poked kills over one million people ablo. 
ATTENTION: FRESHMEN AND SOPHOMORES 
ARE YOU LOOKING FOR AN ON-CAMPUS INTERNSHIP? ARE YOU LOOKING FOR PRACTICAL BUSINESS EXPERIENCE? 


adworks 3W 
IS HIRING FOR THE FOLLOWING POSITIONS: 
DISTRIBUTORS VVEB PAGE DESIGNERS PRODUCTION AND MARKETING STAFF 
IF YOU ARE INTERESTED, PLEASE FILL OUT AN APPLICATION AT 300 LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER. 
---------~~~-~--------------­
page 4 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Monday, September 14, 1998 
Although the trend shows that the said. number of women in elected offices is Since women constitute over half the 
Study Report
rising, "women remain systematically population, major issues are undoubt­

underrepresented

continued from page 1 
and that hinders the 
successful workings of 

percent are women. In the North government," said
American and Caribbean region, this Reynolds in a recent
percentage rises to 18.2 percent. 
press release. He

Reynolds contended that "the trajecto­ry remains positive," especially when explained that legisla­
tion misses makingconsidering that in 1945, less than quality decisionsthree percent of the world's leaders when the entire popu­were women. 

lation is not repre­"Fifty years of slow pressure has sented.

opened up the political sphere to "Decisions need toincreasing numbers of newly politi­
be made as a result of hearing many "Christian countries suppress
cized females who act as role models 
different views and voices to under­women in power less. No religions are
for the next generation," Reynolds 
said. 
Women 
continued from page 1 
to elect a woman as student body president. 
"The broader campus society is conservative and slightly less progressive on gender issues," he said. "The campus is a mir­ror image of the US. govern­ment. This wouldn't be as big of an issue at Berkeley or Harvard." 
Selak agreed with Reynolds and pointed out that only six women have run for president of the student government in the past. 
"I think these numbers have to do with the tradition of Notre Dame being an all male school." Selak said. "This is carried over into student gov­ernment and male leadership roles." 
The status of gender issues at the University is another hin­drance for men and women. Reynolds said: "B~ing slightly less progressive on gender 
'IT COULD TAKE UP TO 50 
YEARS, BUT EVENTUALLY POLITICS WILL BECOME MORE IMPORTANT THAN 
GENDER.' 
ANDREW REYNOLDS 
edly missed when they are not repre­sented, in the same way that minority groups and youth find · themselves underrepresented. 
To a certain degree, the religious orientation of a nation is also impor­tant to the number of women elected. 

stand different segments of society," he gender-equal," Reynolds said. 
issues means there is more of a threshold which makes it hard­er for women and men to per­ceive they can be in positions of power." 
Deanette Weiss, student gov­ernment chief of staff, also sees the tradition of Notre Dame as factoring into why women do not hold more positions of power in the student govern­ment. 
"Although there has been a lack of women who have run for the position, it does have to do with the heritage of Notre Dame," Weiss said. "Women have come into Notre Dame slowly, but I don't think it is necessarily bad that men hold most of the leadership posi­tions here." 
Weiss attributed this to women having been a part of the Notre Dame student body for 26 years. 
Looking at the hierarchy of the University also helps to explain the state of campus politics. 
"If you look at who's in power at the University, you can see the University is male dominated," Reynolds said. "It takes time for the University to adapt to new realities since it is still a predominantly male preserve." 
Every time a woman is put into a position of power at the University, students are able to see them as role models, Reynolds said. 
Selak said she does see more women becoming involved in politics at Notre Dame. 
"It should come down not to gender but quality and ability to do the job," Selak said. 
Although she said she has had numerous positive experi­ences in student government, Selak commented that she does hear occasional negative com­ments. 
"People will say things like 'Do you really think you'll be student body president next year?' They say they are just joking around though," she said. "I get the feeling some­times that people have. the view of a glass ceiling at this school that a woman could not attain the highest leadership position here." 
continued from page 1 
tion to the release will be a predominant indica­tor to the results of upcoming midterm elections. Political speculation on Capitol Hill suggests that expected drops in Clinton's approval rating may become a primary factor in November. 
"Even though Bill Clinton is not on the [November] ballot, he will play a major role in the outcome of midterm elections this year," Schmuhl said. 
As far as consequences to Clinton's actions are concerned, professional opinion varies greatly regarding the options Congress currently faces. 
"The Starr report will ultimately lead to some formal decision by Congress, but it's anyone's guess exactly what that might be," said Schmuhl. 

MEN IN BLACK 7f/hJ_ evte ~? 7f!Wu~~? 

'7-o. flUH. ~. e.s.e. '7-o. 'ilat Wad. e.s.e. 
'?~n mM-e ~(Ut tk, ~4~~-~~~~ ~ s~ • ~ z:>-.e. 1..d6:uta. 46556 
(219) 631-63K5 • 4/tp://-....t.tu/4/-~ 
ANSWER:W. THECALLW 


··------------------------------------~ 

Monday, September 14, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORLD .nws BiiiEFS Tensions flare in Albania 
c;.JIHOKASTHA. Albania 

c;urliiiPII in soutlwrn Albania fired upon police~ WPchwsday while~ authorities seardwd a village for highway roblwrs. Eight officers were woundPd in a clash that has political ovPrtorws. !'olin~ resporulml to the attack by 11ying !wavily armed rPinfon:nmnnts into the arPa 90 miles south of tlw capital. Tirana. but the troops stayPd outside tlw village. Tlw opposition lkmocratic Party of former l'rPsidnnl. Sali lkrisha aceusnd tlw govnrn­nlf'nt of l'rinlf' MinistPr Fatos Nano of trying to provokP. rnsidPnts of l.azarat, a Bcrisha stronghold. Tllf' int:idPnt was the latest sign of trouh!P for Nano's government. Thn BPrisha-lnd opposition accuses tlw govern­mPnt of iru·ompetl'ru·n and corruption, while~ tllf' goV!'rnnwnl arc:uses lkrisha and his sup­porters ol' trying to dPstabiliw it. BPrisha, whom Nano df.f·,~atnd last year, has called for protest marTiu~s Friday. 
Taliban releases five prisoners 
CIIAKI.AI.A Am BASE, Pakistan 

FivP Iranians lwld by tlw Taliban army in Afghanistan haV!' hePn n·lc~ased in a goodwill gPstun• toward tlwir powerful rwighhor, fol­lowing th1• disappParance of I I Iranian diplomats. Tlw Iranians. all truck drivers, landNI Thursday evPning at the Chaklala militarv air hasP rwar Islamabad aboard a l'akist<in air force~ planP. Tensions between Iran and thP ruling Taliban have dee~pened sinr.P Llw II diplomats disappnan•.d in early August af'tPr a Taliban takcwver of key parts of rwrt lwrn Afghanistan from an opposition allianc:P. Tllf' Taliban have~ a!ocusnd Iran of sPruling arms, ammunition and money to its PnPmiPs. Iran says t.lw rPiigious militia is holding 70 ol' its nationals, including the diplomats and a journalist for tlw ol'f'ic:ial Iranian nPws agt•ncy. 
Death toll climbs in India 
LUCKNOW 

India's prime minister on Thursday pledged to sePk a regional solution to months ol' demdly llooding that has inundatPd much ol' nortlwrn India, along with parts ol' llangladPsh and Nopal. Officials raised the d1~ath toll in NPpal to (J5 on Thursday. Anotlwr I.(JI)2 haw bPen kill<~d in India over lhP past twn mnnths. Indian Prime Minister Atal Bihari VajpayPP visited camps for peo­ple~ displat:Pd by flooding, and announced the I'Pderal govnrnnwnt would spend $71 ,000 on l'lood redid and rehabilitation for the c;orakhpur n~gion, in Uttar Pradesh state. 
Dow 

AMEX: 613.21
JONES +6.98 
Nasdaq: 

1641.647795.50 
+56.31 

ll 
NYSE: 
500.03 
+ 12.26 
S&P 500: 
1009.06 
Composite

+28.87 Volume: 179.96 879,800,000 
MOST TRADED STOCKS 
Uf\1!\0) !U.KtB :Sf!! II \:S!el" 'H.CI!ANCjr J•!tHl 
INTEL CORP INTC 5.875 7.43 84.9375 DELL DELL 2.6875 4.91 57.4375 ORACLE CORP ORCL 3.375 15.25 25.5 SPOA SPY 3.1875 3.24 101.6875 TRAVELLERS GROUP TRV 1.375 3.48 40.875 MICROSOFT CORP MSFT 3.5 3.47 104.25 CISCO SYS. csco 4.3125 4.88 92.75 TELEBAAS TBR 7.25 14.57 57.00 
Mueh ol' tlw n~gion is umlerwater, but rains have bPgun to tape~r ofl' and floodwaters arc l'inally rc~c:Pding. VajpayPe said he would nwPt with oflidals in Nepal to seek a eoordi­nated responsn to tlw devastation. 
• BOSNIA~HERZEGOVINA 
Bosnians hold second national election 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
SAHAJEVO 
Bosnia's second postwar national e~leetion nndml Sunday af'tnr two days of peaceful voting, but ollicials said it will take days before thPy know il' votm·s favored moderates or hard-line etl111ic IPaders. 
International ollkials who supe~rviscd the balloting, the seeond for national leaders since the end ol' Bosnia's devas­tating 3 1/2-year war, hoped the out­come would bolster moderates who favor the Western-backed peace plan that halted the fighting. 
Hobnrt Barry, the o!Tieial in charge of organizing the vote, called it "the most successful elections hold here since" the war ended in 1995. Carlos Westcndorp, tho Europ<~an oversner of Bosnia, eallnd it a "great day for democracy." 
First results were expected Tuesday but the lirutl eount eould take nearly a week. 
Turnout was high and some 62 polling stations allowed people to vote aftnr the oflidal closing time or 4 p.m.. according to the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, which ran tlw nlection. 
A computer error caused a few dozen of the more than 2,600 polling stations to fail to opon Saturday. All but one operated on Sunday. 
Bosnian Sorb police arrosted one man Sunday aftl'r a group entered a voting station and damaged a ballot box in the Bosnian Serb village of Lokanj, about (JO miles northeast or Sarajevo, accord­ing to U.N. police. 
In Banja Luka in the Bosnian Serb republic, police detained a Sarajevo­based television crew for two hours. allegedly for filming the oflice of repub­lic President Biljana Plavsic without permission. AFP Photo 
Barry called the detention outrageous Refugee women in the Bosnian town of Tinja wait for election papers to arrive. and said it would be investigated as a 
"I think these elections are a good tion. Voters selected a three-memberviolation of' election rules. Otherwise, 
chance to finally change the situation in presidency -one from each ethniccalm prevailed for an election consid­which we are living now. I'm not quite group -along with a national parlia­
ered crucial to the future of the 1995 sure how much people from these ment and separate parliaments in eachDayton peace accord. 
areas will use that chance," said entity.
"Very clearly these elections were 
Senada Malanovic, 25, a Muslim But hard-line politicians on all three
free and fair," said Hobert Gelbard, 
woman in Mostar in southwestern sides and ethnic mistrust have slowed
President Clinton's representative in 
Bosnia. progress. One of the major issues isthe Balkans. 
. Under the peace agreement, Bosnia is refugees -an estimated 1 million dis­About :n percent of registered voters divided into two entities-a Serb placed people still cannot go home to 
cast ballots Saturday and more than republic and a Muslim-Croat federa-areas.
that voted on Sunday. 

• UNITED STATES 
Americans angry with Clinton 
AssOCIATED PRESS  percent. and in the CNN  
WASHINGTON  'THIS IS NOT ABOUT POLIS, AS BOTH DEMOCRATS  poll, 59 percent, said they favor censure by Congress.  
Most Americans  want  AND REJ>UBUCANS HAVE SAID. THIS ABOUT  "This entire process is  
Congress to punish Pt·esident Clinton in some  GETIING THE TRUTH.'  overwhelmingly political in nature and the consensus  
way, even though they say  of the citizens of this coun­ 
the president should remain in office, according to weekend polls taken after the release of  But more people had an unfavorable opinion of  MIKE CoLLINs public in newspapers. over the Internet and on news  try will be the determining factor in the way Congress responds," said Democratic National  
Kenneth Starr's report. The president's job approval ratings remain strong, from 59 percent to 67 percent, depending on the poll. And a majority in three polls taken over the weekend and released Sunday -for ABC News. CBS News and CNN/USA Today/G!dlup -said they thought the president should remain in office.  Clinton personally than had a favorable opinion, a measure of his personal appeal that has dipped in recent weeks even as his job approval has held steady. The president's sexual relationship with former White House intern Monica Lewinsky was outlined in detail in Starr's report released Friday and made  broadcasts. A majority in the polls said they want Congress to punish the president in some form. A narrow majority in the ABC News poll, 53 per­cent, said they favor impeachment hearings, although they are divided on whether Clinton should be impeached. A majority in the CBS News poll, 56  Committee Chairman Steve Grossman. The spokesman for the Hepublican National Committee, Mike Collins, said Americans are just beginning to absorb the detailed report. "But this is not about polls, as both Democrats and Republictl.ns have said. This is about getting to the truth," Collins said.  

~ --~----~----~----------­
page 6 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, September 14, 1998 
• Moscow 
Russian prime minister commits to economic reform 

Associated Press 
Two leading advocates of free-market reforms assailed Russia's new government Sunday as a communist revival, but Prime Minister Yevgeny Primakov defended his team and insisted it is ded­icated to economic reform. 
"The continuity of the course of reforms will be guaran­teed," Primakov said in a tele­vision interview. his first since taking office Friday. He said communists in his Cabinet would work for the govern­ment, not their party. 
Primakov was appointed after the Communist Party­dominated parliament turned down President Boris Yeltsin's first choice for prime minister, Viktor Chernomyrdin. 
The new premier, who was Yeltsin's foreign minister, was 
• MEXICO 
warmly welcomed by the com­munists, who will also have an important voice in his Cabinet. 
The top economic official in the new Cabinet, Yuri Maslyukov, is a Communist Party member and former head of the Soviet Union's cen­tral planning agency, and the new head of the Central Bank is a former Soviet State Bank chief whose previous response to economic trouble was to print more money. 
The appointments have enraged some leading advo­cates of market-oriented eco­nomic reforms, who say the country is reversing course. 
"The Communist Party is the governing party now" said for­mer Deputy Prime Minister Boris Nemtsov in an interview on the Zerkalo television pro­gram. 
His remarks were echoed by former Prime Minister Yegor Gaidar, considered the archi­tect of Russia's market reforms. 
Gaidar was quoted by the Interfax news agency as say­ing it was hard to say how long the "government of com­munists" would take to "destroy elements of a free­market economy in Russia." 
"Unfortunately," he added, "it is clear that it will surely do that." 
Primakov insisted that would not be the case. In his inter­view on the Itogi television program, he was asked about the appointment of Maslyukov, the former central planner, as deputy prime minister for eco­nomic policy. 
"The appointment of Maslyukov is quite accept­able," Primakov said. "It does not mean that in the govern-
Devestating floods disable towns 
Associated Press 
TAPACHULA 

Helicopters fanned out across southern Chiapas state Sunday as part of what the government has called an unprecedented rescue-and-aid mission to help flood victims. 
In Pijijiapan, the town worst­hit by last week's flooding, police with sniffer dogs scanned river banks, and 1,000 soldiers and volunteers were m·obilized to try and find sur­vivors. 
"We are saving the living. The dead, with all respect, are dead," said civil defense chief Romeo Leon Vidal. 
Residents buried a 10-year­old girl. Four people, including a woman paralyzed by injuries, were f1own out of Pijijiapan by medical rescue teams from as far away as Mexico City and Monterrey. 
President Ernesto Zedillo placed the official death toll in the flooding at 78 and called it one of the worst natural disas­ters in recent Mexican history. 
Along the state's northern coast, 400,000 people whose villages were cut off by the 11oods now face hunger and the threat of disease due to a lack of potable water. 
A 11eet of 65 helicopters dis­tributed bottled water and donated food to dozens of towns isolated by downed bridges and washed-out roads after Chiapas was hit by a week of constant rain. 
Zedillo said Saturday the res­cue operation "has no prece­dent in our history." Some aid had to be channeled through neighboring Guatemala. 
Government officials had originally estimated the death 
toll at more than 100, and Zedillo said he expected the number to rise above the offi­cial count of 78. 
Meanwhile, volunteers and police recovered more bodies Sunday and buried them quick­ly. 
Based on the scale of the dis­aster -which struck a ·too­mile stretch of coast, making it inaccessible to everything but helicopters -the daily news­paper, La Jornada, estimated that 115 people had been killed and 157 were missing. 
Zedillo said only the 1985 Mexico City earthquake, which killed 10,000 people, was worse. The flooding has creat­ed such an enormous logistical problems that thousands of people are in danger of starva­tion. 
In Tres Picos, on a northern 
140-Vear-Oid Seeks Fresh Thinking. 

140-year-old company is looking for aself­motivated individual to work with businesses and high net-worth people. Here is the opportunity to enjoy the control and unlimited earning potential tl1at comes with working for yourself along with the satisfaction of helping others to secure their financial future. We offer extensive training and support. Products include annuities, life insurance, and disability income insur­ance, for use in estate planning, business planning, and pension and profit sharing plans. For more information, stop by our booth at the COBA on September 17 and 18, 1998 for the Business Career Forum or contact Joan McCarthy at the Hoopis Agency, 847/441-4304. 
~m 
The Quiet Company• 
www.hoopisagency.com 

01 'llJ8 The Nnrthw~em Mutual life Insurance Co., Milwaukee. WI 8021-97 
stretch of the coast, residents prayed over Herman Lara's sheet-wrapped body under the frail light of the town's only power generator. 
The town of 10,000 has been without power since the worst of the flooding hit Tuesday. There is little water, food or medicine there. 
Further south on the coast in the settlement of El Arena!, six policemen wearing bandanas around their faces to ward off the smell found a young woman's body Saturday wrapped around some tree roots near a river. 
They tried to carry the unidentified body to the local cemetery, but the stench over­came them and they dropped the corpse. She was finally buried in an unmarked grave, wrapped in a sheet of plastic. 
ment he will accomplish the line that will be dictated by the Communist Party. It's absolutely out of the ques­tion." 
However, Primakov also said the new government would have a "socially-oriented" eco­nomic policy that would bal­ance market reforms with the needs of the public. 
He added, without elabora­tion, that he would seek to correct "some of the mistakes made in the past." 
The lurching economic reform efforts of previous administrations have ultimate­ly led to the country's current crisis, in which the value of the ruble has slid and the gov­ernment has effectively defaulted on its foreign loans. 
The new prime minister spent part of his day Sunday meeting with top military offi­cials. He didn't speak about military matters in his inter­view, except to say he was "categorically against" a mili­tary solution to Russia's con­tinuing problems with th1~ renegade region of Chechnya. 
He is expected to meet Monday with leading financial executives. 
Meanwhile, Maslyukov told the Echo Moscow radio station that he intended to submit a draft of a ruble stabilization program to Primakov on Monday. He didn't elaborate. 

Potential of Earning $145.00 per month for 2 to 4 hours per week of your time. You choose your own schedule. 
Plasma Donations Save Lives Come Donate Today!! 
Call 234-601 0 and ask for Toni -or stop and see us at 515 Lincolnway West South Bend, IN. 



Tomorrow, September 15, 1998 For time and location of meeting, call: 1-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C 
Sr.Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C. 
AII Meetings are private and confidentiaI. 
------------~----~------------­
Monday, September 14, 1998 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
• CoNGO 
Companies unhappy with Congo government 
c;OMA 

For Vietor Ngezayo, a Congolese gold and coff1~e deal­er. signing lurrativn contracts with President l.aurPnt Kabila proved a bust. Tlw fornwr rnlml hackPCl out and awarded tlw dPal to a eomJwtitor. 
Ngnzayo is among many busi­twssnum who initially supported Kahila's taknowr of the govnrn­nwnl. but an• now linding him impossible lo deal with -twarly as difTirult as tlw notoriously corrupt dictator Mobulu Sese Seko. who Kahila ousted May 
I 'J'J7. 
Tlwir unhappiness threatens Congolese hopos for stability and for tim devdopment of vast min­eral resources to rebuild an eeonomy destroyed during the 32 ytmrs of Mobutu's rule. 
Businessmen's complaints arc many. 
In 1997, for example, Kabila signml a deal with Canadian­based Banro Hnsourcos Corp. of Toronto, ropn~s1wted by Ngezayo. which invested an ini­tial $:~40 million in gold mining in nastern Congo. 
L1~ss than a ynar later, Kabila scrapped the contract and awardml the same concession to a newly formml Congolese com-
Innovate. 

. 
~ 
G) 
> 
0 
u 
~ 
va 
Improve 

! 
At Abbott laboratories, everything we do is directed toward one goal: to improve livPs. In fact, since 1888, Abbott has been producing innovative health care products and services that haVP been improving people's lives worldwide. And, with more than 54,000 dPdicated employees and a presence in more than 130 countries, our products and services are as diverse as those creating them. Our employees contribute a 
a wide variety of opinions, perspectives, backgrounds, and experiences. Yet they share a common objective: the desire to make a difference. From pharmaceuticals and diagnostics to nutritionals and hospital-related products, our varied businesses have been making a significant difference in the health care industry and in people's lives. With annual sales at $12 billion and one of the best long-term financial performance records in the corporate world, we intend to continue providing quality he.1lth care products far into the future. You too, can make a difference with a career at Abbott laboratories. We are seeking talented students in the following disciplines: Research & Development, Production/Op~rations, Sales & Marketing/Business Development, Engineering, Information Tt'chnology, finance and Accounting/Business, and Human Resources. Make a difference in the world. join the team dedicated to improving lives. ABBOTT LABORATORIES Guolty He.lth c .... Waridwklo www.abbott.com 
Abbott will be at the MBA/Undergrad Career fair on 9/17 and Industry Day on 
9/23. Students unable to meet with Abbott at these events may e-mail a resume to: 
www.abbott.com/career. Equal Opportunity Employer. 
-




pany. Banro is now suing the Congolese government for $1 billion in damages. Tho suit was filed in Washington where SAKl­MA. a branch of Banro operat­ing in Congo, is registen~d. 
Disillusioned and angry, Ngezayo has returned to his native Goma in the east of Congo where rnbels are fighting to oust Kabila and install a new govern­nwnl. 
"We couldn't do business under Kabila," Ngezayo said at his lakeside villa, whero ho is waiting to see how the anti­Kabila rebnllion that bt~gan Aug. 2 plays out. "That mandidn't rospoet any laws or any interna­tional conventions." 
Hebels and businessmen say Congo's 4 7 million people sufl'er because of government corrup­tion, a lack of' democratic insti­tutions and repeated failures by Mobutu. and now Kabila, to ensure a healthy business envi­ronment and a broad-based, nlected government. 
Mining investments in Congo seem to be the major source of money for the country's leaders, but not necessarily its people. 
Congo -one of' the richest African countries in gold, dia­monds, cobalt and copper -is limping along at subsistence level. Jobs are scarce, state-run economic institutions have crumbled and political upheavals add to insecurity. 
An average monthly teacher's salary in Goma is about $15 ­
PLEASE RECYCLE THE OBSERVER 
Make A Career Out of Spending Other People's Money. 
Please join us for an 
information session: 
Wednesday, September 16 Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn 6:00 -8:00 pm 
Sponsored by Notre Dame Career & Placement 

MEDIA ... It is what takes ideas from the conceptual and production stage, to our living rooms, malls, bars, and the broad outdoors. At Starcom, we make MEDIA our business. Because what is an idea if it hasn't anyplace to go? 
• 
... 'A 1c. 
* * 

STARCOM MEDIA SERVICES 
but nobody has been paid in years and teachers are charging parents for education. A dentist at Goma hospital, whieh is sup­posed to be state-funded. has not been paid for six months. 
Even as Kabila was ousting 
Mobutu, international mining com­panies rushed to secure deals with the now leader and, in many cases, helped finance his rise to power. 
Arkansas­b a s e d American Mineral Fields, for 
TIONS. 
example, flew Kabila in its own jet across the country until he finally agrCf~d to give the compa­ny exclusive rights to the copper and cobalt tailings projects. Tailings, the waste material from mining, can b(~ refined into finished products. 
Last year, the company !iled a $3 billion lawsuit against South African-based Anglo American, alleging the mining company oll'ered cash to Kabila's govern­ment to scrap the deal with the 
U.S. company. Anglo has denied any wrongdoing. 
The rebels -ethnic Tutsis, disenchanted members of Kabila's army and opposition­politicians -accuse Kabila of 

mismanagement, corruption and nepotism. the ills he promised to eradicate. 
Ernest Wamba dia Wamba, the rebel leader, accuses Kabila of ruining the little that was left of Congo's economy. 
"Mobutu used to take 1 0 percent of 'WE COULDN'T DO commissions on intnrnation­
BUSINESS UNDER 
al business 

KABILA. THAT MAN DIDN'T 
deals. Kabila is RESPECT ANY LAWS OR ANY taking :~0 per­cent," he said. 
INTERNATIONAL CONVEN­
Ngezayo and  
o  t  h  e  r  
Congolese  
businessmen  
VICTOR NGF:ZAYO  arc now wait­ 
ing to sn11 what  
the  second  
rebellion  in  two  years  can  
change.  

"Everything's paralywd," Ngozayo said. "I ean't do any business. I can't travel. I can't reach my mnployecs. And if this persists, it will be bad for busi­ness. Nobody wants to invest in a war zone." 
Apart from gold mining, Ngezayo also lost control of a chain of hotels. Three thousand of his employees arn unpaid, he said. 
"This country can function only with right political leaders," he said. "You can't do business violating legal procedures. You need responsible and account­able authorities." 
JiJpan trade surplus increases, 
U.S. calls for open markets 
Associated l'ress 
TOKYO 
Japan's broadest measure ()fJriJde jumped over 53 per­cent in July from the same month"a year ago, the gov• ernment announced today. 
The current account sur­plus, unadjusted for seasonal factors. was at $10.3 billion in July, tho Finance Ministry announced. 
The increase, lower than To){yo-based economists had forecast, marked the 16th c.op:se~utive monthly year· oq.~•.Y.ear increase in the sur•
,,, ·:·:. ,, ':i.:~: ,,., .. ,.,. 
plus. 

The current account mea­sures the difference between income from foreign sources and foreign obligations payable, excluding net capi· tal investment. 
As the surplus balloons. political tensions with Japan's trade partners have heated up. 
The Clinton administration intends to step up pressure on Japan to open its markets in an effort to trim Japan's growing surplus, U-S. Trade Representative Charlene Barshefsky said Friday. 

-------~----~--~--~---------­
----------------------------------------------~--~--­
--------~----------------------------------~ 

The biggest name in professional services is no~ well, the biggest name in professional services. 
You showed them what you were made of at Notre Dame. Now show the world. 
ASSURANCE TAX & LEGAL MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL ADVISORY GLOBAL BUSINESS PROCESS 
AND BUSINESS SERVICES CONSULTING SERVICES HR OUTSOURCING ADVISORY SERVICES SERVICES SOLUTIONS 
Visit our web site and find out how you can shape the future. 
www.pwcglobal.com 
PricewaterhouseCoopers is an equal opportunity employer. 
0 1<JtJH Prirt!waterhuust!CrxJpt!rs LLP. Pricewaterhuu...eem,per.; refers to the l:J.S. organization o{PricewaterhtH.J.-.eCoo~rs LLP and rJiher meml1t1r.~o of the worldwide Pricewaterhou..eCoopers rJr].tanizatirm. 
Monday, September 14, 1998 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Checks find criminal employ~.e~w: 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Government auditors have found evidence that U.S. nursing homes employ a significant amount of workers who have criminal records. 
"There is no assurance that nursing home staff who eould place elderly residents at risk arc systematically identified and excluded from employment," said the inspeetor general of the Health and Human Services Department, June Gibbs Brown. The report was prepared for a Monday hearing of the Senate Special Committee on Aging. 
Using FBI records, government auditors con­ducted criminal baekground checks on 1,000 employees at eight randomly selected Maryland nursing homes. They found that five percent of 
"which should raise concern over their employ­ability," the report. said. ;;'k'.~::"·.nm;t:j\i .;, •.•. :\W:\i:\~iiiM!?M\ii\U. 
The employees mcluded nurses and nurses' aides. food service workers, housekeepers and maintenance workers. Alllong the cdme~ they had committed were assault, child abuse, rob• : bery with a deadly weapon and illegal drug 
sales. 

The inspector general's report noted sitnilar.. findings in Illinois, the only state that has done its own criminal background checks of current nursing home employees. ·. , . ;" 
After 21.000 checks, Illinois found about five+ percent of workers were convicted criminals. · Most have been rrred. 
Aging committee chairman Sen. Charles Grassley, R-lowa, said Congress is considering "options for a national background check net­
'Favorite son' Gov. Wallace dies at 79 

The Specials 

. 
Monday 

Fajita Dinner for 2 for $10 at Chili's 
Monday -Thursday 
$5 All you can bowl 9-midnight 

includes slzoe rental and soft drink 
Every Day 

Cinemark Movis 10 All movies $3.75 Garfield's 209/cJoff entire bill, one discount per ID Olive Garden Never ending pasta bowl for $6.95 
Friday, September 11 

Free carnations at Titanic courtesy of SUB 
Sponsored by HPC 

NEW LOCATION 
FOR ALL CBS MEETINGS 

0MPUS 
MINISTRY 

FOR STUDENT CONVENIENCE 
CAMPUS BIBLE STUDY 
WILL MEET EACH 

TUESDAY EVENING 7:00PM THE BADIN HALL CHAPEL 
NEXT MEETING TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15,7:00 PM REV. AL D'ALONZO, esc 
REFRESHMENTS FOLLOW 
ALL ARE WELCOME! 
Associated Press 
MONTGOMERY 
Former Gov. George 
Wallaee, who deelared "segre­
gation forever" and later was 
paralyzed by a would-be 
assassin's bullet as he eam­
paigned for the presideney in 
1972, died Sunday. He was 79. 
Wallace, a lifelong Demoerat 
who late in life began support­
ing some Republiean candi­
dates, had battled Parkinson's 
disease as well as the linger­
ing effects of his wounds. He 
had been hospitalized repeat­
edly. 
Wallace entered the hospital 
Thursday, suffering from 
breathing problems and septie 
shoek caused by a severe bac­
terial infeetion. lie also had 
been hospitalized this summer 
with similar problems. 
The former governor died of respiratory and cardiac arrest, Jackson Hospital ol'fieials said. Wallaee's son, George Wallaee Jr., and one of his daughters, Peggy Wallace Kennedy, were at his side when he died. 
"Gov. Wallace has shown tremendous courage for many years in living an active life despite his pain and injury," Gov. Fob James said. "This example is an inspiration to us aiL Gov. Wallace now rests with God and with history." 
Former President Jimmy Carter issued a statement. praising Wallaee for changing his long-held views on race and "his courage in the faee of illness and physical handicap." 
"With the death of George Wallaee, Alabama and the Ameriean South have lost one of our favorites sons." Carter said. "His political career both helped to define and to reflect the political life of our region." 

As a third-party candidate in 

1968, Wallaee reeeived nearly 
10 million presidential votes 
and seemed poised to do as 
well four years later when he 
was shot. 
He had gained national noto­

riety in the early 1960s when 
he vowed "segregation forev­
er" and stood in an Alabama 
schoolhouse door to keep 
blaeks from enrolling. But ulti­
mately he won an unprece­
dented fourth term as gover­
nor with the help of blaek vot­
ers. 
"We thought it was in the 

best interests of all coneerned. 
We were mistaken," he told a 
black group during his last 
gubernatorial eampaign, in 
1982. "The Old South is gone," 
but "the New South is still 
opposed to government regu­
lation of our lives." 
A political ieon in a region long accustomed to fiery ora­tory, Wallaee dominated the state for the better part of two deeades before bowing out of politics with the April 1986 announeement that he would not seek a fifth tnrm. 
Urging voters to "send 'em a message," Wallaec made four runs at the presideney. inelud­ing the 1968 contest in whieh he won five Southern states and 46 flleetoral votes. 
lie married three times, and put his first wife in tho govm·­nor's chair when stato law barred him from succeeding himself. 
As the South reeled from eivil rights elashes and the bombing of black ehurehes during his early earner. Wallaee loomed as a symbol of racial opprflssion aeross the region. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM 
SANTIAGO, CHILE 
SPRING 1999 
INFORMATION MEETINGS WITH PROFESSOR SILVIA ROJAS-ANADON 
TUESDAY SEPTEMBER 15,1998 4:45P.M. 216 DEBARTOLO 
APPLICATION DEADLINE OCTOBER 1, 1998 
A 
Atrxa 

SPECIAL ~o.£0()
INVITATION '-'l Announces the Following Introductory Offers of... 
r1o%~ri1 r12s, r-$59-: i-$;-7-: i-$7o-: 
I Aveda I I Cut & I I Color. Cut I IManicure and I I Hrhtes & I I R .1 I I Style I I & style ..1 L Pedicure .J 1 Cut & Styl:J
L. ..!t!!. .J L---.J L--.. ---._ --­
•Please call to schedule your appointment* 
,....,.....--~~:-::::-:::--1

Stylist: This offer NOT valid with Cindy. •NEW CLIENTS ONLY• Ad mll3l be pRSented to receptionist 
Please use the Special Savings inviration and gerro 
before serv.icea fl1'll ~rformed

know us. You'II be pleased with the qualily and ser­vice we provide. and we will do our besl to merit your  ¥  (<:crtain restt!ctlonsapply)  .  
contidence and patronage.  We hope to see you soon.  
Atria Salon  

Not valid for spiral perms. Long or tinted hair add $10. No 
1357 N. Ironwood Drive other discounts apply. Open some evenings. Atria Salon . South Bend, IN 46615reserves the right to refuse service to any client whose harr Tel. 219·289·5080 condition is unsuitable. Expires 9/30/98. 


VIEWPOINT 
page10-----------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SI\INT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Reimhaler Kyle Carlin 
AssiSTANT MANAGING EDITOR Hearhcr MacKenzie 

NEWS EDITOR.. .. ... Michelle Krupa ADVERTISING MANAGER ............... Kerry McPartlin VIEWPOINT EDITOR .................. Eduardo Llull AD DESIGN MANAGER ........................ Brert Hudat SPORTS EDITOR ...................... Kathleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER ..........••.......• Michael Brouillet SCENE EDITORS............................ Sarah Dylag CONTROLLER .....................................Dave Rogero 
Krisri K1irsch WEB ADMINISTRATOR .................. Jennifer Breslow SAINT MARY'S EDITOR ....... M. Shannon Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR ............................... Pete Cilella PHOTO EDITOR ... . ...... Kevin Dalum 
The Observer is the independent ncw~paper publisht.-d by the studenrs of the University ofNoue Dame duLac and 
Saint Mary's College. h doo not necesso~rily reflect rhc policies of the administration ofeirher institution. The news is 
reported il.'l accurately and objectively a.c; possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor~in-Chicf, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commemaries, leners and 
columns present the views of the authors, and nor nc=cessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available ro otll 
member~ of the Nntre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The fr~e expression of varying opinions 
through leners is encouraged. 
Contacting The Observer 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Assistant ME 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Spom 631-4543 Fax 631-6927 Scene//Sainr Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu Office Manager/Generallnformation 631-7471 News E-Mail observer.obsnews.l @nd.edu 
• fREE Bows 
In Defiance of Any and All Rational Thought 
• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
ti/!3U, I Ml, (}(ff§TANPfN6/ 7HINK/Ne Of' I /JIIJN'rI<NOtU ~lNGA FCXJT-YOU PLAY£/? 
BAU STAR FOOJ8AU, 
UK& Y()(h IJN-""­
a&ZONK£R! 
\ 

I knew something was amiss the first time I drove by Bridget's (may she rest in peace). Where the sign on the outer wall had once read, ever so alluringly, "Bridget Maguire's Filling Station," it now read "Molly Maguires Coflee House." I stared in disbelief and, at that moment, I knew something was wrong. 
It turns out I was right. 
Brandon Williams 


Unfortunately, it looks like all that underage drinking that sent Bridget's to an early death may have had some unforeseen consequences on some stu­dent's capacity for rational thought. Here are just a few examples of what I mean. 
Example number one: Paranoia. Take Aaron Kreider's (of Progressive Student Alliance fame) column in The Observer not too far back. Kreider's column sound­ed like a Monty Python skit, heroicly pro­claiming: "If you too are oppressed just give the PSA a call!" 
Newsbreak: WE ARE AT NOTRE DAME! Last I checked there weren't any execu­tions in the quad, food shortages, enforced poverty (except in the form of student loans) or even any serious viola­tions of free speech (as Kreider's column suggests). If you are a Notre Dame stu­dent, you are getting a great education in a mostly comfortable living space that, generally, offers tremendous opportuni­ties for those that will take them. 
The word "oppressed" doesn't need to be thrown around. It's insulting to those who have a valid claim on the word. If you're looking for oppression try going to the Sudan. China. some Latin American countries or many American ghettos ... and light it. 
I am not trying to say that injustice does not exist at Notre Dame. It certainly does, and where it exists it should be fought. I gave considerable time last year making some very humble efforts at this. I also think rallies, for a worthy cause, are worthwhile. Last year I helped coordinate, with a number of great people, a rally in celebration of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., to counter a Klan rally taking place the following weekend. It was one of the coolest experiences of my life and. hope­fully, it made a difference. 
llowever, rallies for the sake of rallies are a mockery of the true pursuit of jus­tice. Rallies can't be brought about with some sort of 1-(900) pseudo-commercial­ization. There needs to be real principle behind them, along with respect and the real possibility of change. 
Example number two: Inhibition of logic. Among the litany of politically cor­rect causes that Kreider throws his philo­sophical weight behind are being Vegan and opposing the censure that the Woman's Resource Center received for providing student access to materials on abortion. I gather from this that Mr. Kreider is pro-choice. Someone please, please explain to me how one manages to be against eating a cow, a pig or a turkey and tolerant of the selective extermination of unborn children. It's not O.K. to kill ani­mals for food, but it is O.K. to kill unborn human beings? Fetuses are at least mam­mals aren't they? Don't they deserve the same protection that these other oppressed mammals do? 
The problems with logic are further revealed in the collective inability of some in the student body to understand the uproar over ND's inviting Bill Bradley to campus. Even when we leave out those from New Jersey (who bear somewhat understandable misplaced loyalties), there still remain some other students who can't quite grasp why people are making a big deal out of this. 
It's simple. Senator Bradley consistently voted (notice the verb) for abortion during his Senate career. He even voted to keep partial birth abortion legal! (Very few people can claim that they did the same.) 
Notre Dame is a Catholic university. This word, "Catholic" corresponds with certain beliefs. One of these beliefs is that abortion is murder. It's not just sort of a bad thing. Its not just a tiny bit evil. It is murder. The Church believes this because it gives assent to the proposition that the fetus is a human being (if someone can tell me what other species of mammal besides "human" that a fetus might be, 
'SO, WE'VE GOT PARANOIA, 
LOGICAL INHIBITION AND 

SHORT-TERM MEMORY LOSS. IT 
SEEMS LIKE BRIDGET'S LEGACY 
LIVFS ON IN THE MIND OF A FEW 
STUDENTS {AND IN ALL OF OUR 
HEARTS).' 
please do) and in an abortion that human being is willfully killed. 
But certainly, we don't cheek to see what someone's opinion is on this issue before we allow their association with this University? Very true, however, Senator Bradley is not just pro-choice. He has actually voted for, and thereby in this democracy helped perpetuate, the legal­ized slaughter of human beings. 
Perhaps just what this means, from the Catholic standpoint, would be better understood with what would be an analo­gous and more visually accessible situa­tion. Imagine that there exists places where, every day. thousands of mothers walking with toddlers in their arms go to an individual who relieves them of their toddlers and proceeds to drop those tod­dlers into acid, or use a high-powered vacuum to dismember them. Perhaps the individual even sticks scissors into the struggling childrens' heads to create a hole through which to suck the child's brains out. Now, imagine that Senator Bradley had voted for the legalization of and government funding for places like this. Does Notre Dame invite him? I don't think there is any question that there would be some justified disquiet in this imaginary situation. From a pro-life standpoint this imaginary situation is very similar to the onn in which we lind our­selves with Senator Bradley. 
This brings me to my final example: Short Term Memory Loss. In another PSA column some good points were made. along with a lot of bad ones, as Bob Kerr recently pointed out. Nevertheless. peo­ple truly advocating for the culture of lifi~ should, to be consistent, advocate for the lives of all. This ineludes many antecedent causes -likt~ a just wagt~ and racial equality. Unfortunately: some serious problems arise when the authors start calling for a "socialist consciousness." 
Whoa there! Did I miss something? Maybe I misunderstand what they arc advocating, but I do know that socialism has been a wee bit discredited in recent years. I'm all for economic justice. but his­tory has empirically shown that the "socialist consciousness" is no solution. Besides, the business majors would never go for it. 
So, we've got paranoia, logical inhibi­tion and loss of short-term memory. It seems like Bridget's legacy lives on in the minds of a few students (and in all of our hearts). 
My advice, go down to Molly Maguires for a good iced cappuccino. The eall"eine might help to get the brain going again. If you can make it on Tw~sday, I hear they have ptmny mochas. 
Brandon Williams is a senior history and philosophy major. /lis column appears every other Monday. Anyone interested in the meaning of "free bows" is cordially invited to contact Liam Knoll. They really are free. you know. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obserl'er. 
• QuoTE OF THE DAY 
'To see some of our best-
educated boys spending 

the afternoon knocking each 
other clown, while thousands 
cheer them on, hardly gives a 
picture of a peace-loveing 
nation.' 
-Lyndon Baines Johnson 
·-----~.--­
VIEWPOINT 
Monday, September 14, 1998 -----------------os~£RvER ---------------------------------------------page II 
• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Student Voices Silenced in Move 
It was highly disappointing to read the rather tlaccid article printed in the Sept. 7 issue of The Observer concerning the removal of Notre Dame's student publications from the LaFortune Student Center to the basement of South Dining Hall. When I was interviewed for the article, I had high hopes that Christine Kraly would finally publically expose the strong-arm approach the administration took toward the move and the publications themselves. 
Certainly, I r.annot claim to have an objective view concerning this move. However. l was nxtremely disappointed to realize how ephemeral the arti· ele made the damage done to these publications seem. I'm certain the administration, specifieally Joe Cassidy and Bill Kirk, was happy to know that the majority of problems expressed in the article could be solved with a few phone calls and a few more dollars. More importantly, l think the student body and administration should know that we will not be appeased by a few more chairs and repairing the leaks. These issues are not the problem. 
I was surprised by the pro-administration approach taken by the article. I realize that this writer was simply attempting to maintain an objective balance. Yet, in doing so, l believe central issues were ignored. The stu­dents have beNl ignored and that angers me. The issuf;l is bigger than the "million annoying little things that haven't come together," as Pat Downes, editor-in-chief of Scholastic, was accredited as saying. I believe he knows, as do the rest of the publication staffs. that this move was not at all about students. Moreover, evHn solving these mil.lion little problems will not restore these publications to tho high level of communication and opera· tion we once possessed in the LaFortune Student Center. 
We have been told that the administration is considering moving the publications back to the student cenhlr in four years. I really appreciate the administration's savvy approach to this issue. In four years, any stu­dent who knows the importance ol' being in the student center will be gone. Our voices will be sile11ced. My hope is that some freshman will be browsing through The Observer's archives and find this article. I address the rest of my lettPr to you dear freshmen: 
Dear Future Freshmen, 
I wish I were a more naive person. Perhaps then I would more easily acCf)pt that separating the voice of the student body from the center of the student body was. in fact, a deeision made with our best interests in mind. As for consulting the publications involved, the administration must be deaf because none of' the publications wanted to move and were. for the most part, eonsultnd only after the dodsion had been made. Only at that point, once our fate was sealed, were eoncerns about safety and aecess to othnr groups addressed. Don't believe for one second anyone agreed to move. This move was a decision made by the administration for the admin· istration. We never demanded new desks or darkrooms, or 24-hour access for our entirr staffs. We suffered through bee-hives and 1970's furniture, but we didn't complain. Our ofliee spaee was ideal to us. Now. my desk is ideal. Who cares'? 
By thn way, if this move was about the students, why does the adminis­tration now oeeupy 2/3 of thfl spac~e we formally occupied? Ironic, isn't it? So 11njoy your snmi-now desk, oh futuro freshman reader, and know that tiH' administration betrayed interaction with the student body, the most important need in a student publieation. for your new desk. 
The scor-cl: Administration: I Students: 0. 
John Peschke Danielle Moore Co,Edirors·in·Chief 
tlu Drm1t Yrarbook 
September 13, 19')8 
Something 

on your mind? Send it to us at Viewpoint. l@nd.edu 
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
ND/SMC 
Right to Life Explains Position 


... ·' . 
.·· 
I ,\.. ~..· 
····~ 
----~, 
,. 
. ;;' /:.
·.;: 
I 
\ 

Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Right to Life Club would like to disclaim any involvement with the activities of the Pro-Life Action League during the Michigan football game. We do not believe that a negative campaign against former senator Bill Bradley's presence on campus furthers our efforts to change hearts and save lives on our campus and in the greater Notre Dame/South Bend community. 
Though we do not identify with the measures taken by the Pro-Life Action League, we do identify with its objection to Bradley's voting record on abortion. As an organization which embraces the consistent ethic of life, the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Right to Life Club has pledged itself to uphold the dignity of all human life, from conception to natural death. 
Bill Bradley may have excelled in the classroom, on the basketball court and in the Senate chamber. lie may have garnered praise for his prominent role in the areas of tax reform, international trade, pension reform, community build­ing and race relations. But he has an abortion voting record that is nothing short of shameful. 
In pointing out Bradley's voting record, we are exercising the same right to which the Notre Dame administration has appealed to justify his presence on campus. Bradley has been given an open forum at Notre Dame to express his ideas on "Six New American Healities," and we respect his right to do so. But we do ask that the Notre Dame students and faculty also educate themselvns on another American reality: the 25-year history of abortion on demand in this nation and Bradley's collaboration with that reality. 
Bradley has voted to allow our tax dollars to pay for abortion on demand, to lift the ban on fetal tissue from induced abortions for transplant research and to engage in efforts to change abortion laws in foreign countries. Bradley even voted against an amcndmcmt to prohibit federal and state governments from discriminating against medical training programs that do not provide abortion training (in other words, in favor of requiring Catholic institutions to provide training for abortion proceduresl. 
Though the House and the Senate voted to ban the gruesome proeedure known as partial birth abortion, Bradley was among the ranks of those who voted against the ban. Even typically pro-abortion senators like New York's Daniel Patrick Moynihan were so repulsed by this procedure that they voted to override President Clinton's veto of the ban. Bill Bradley, however, r.ontinued to support this abortion procedure that physicians have deemed eompletely unnecessary, even to save the mother's life. 
Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Right to Life appeals to both students and faculty to educate themselves on the issue of abortion and its consequences in our soci­ety, and to ask yourself whether disrespect for life in the womb is something that enhances or hinders the "New America" that Bill Bradley promotes. Ask yourself if an America that promotes abortion as a quick fix for growing popu­lations in third world countries can call itself a promoter of development. Ask yourself if an America that offers pregnant mothers a "choice" harmful to them and their unborn children ean eall itself a friend of women. Ask yourself if an America that denies unborn individuals the right to life outside the womb can call itself a nation committed to justice. 
Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Right to Life Club September 12, I99H 

OTHE 
---------------Monday, September 14,1998
BSERVER 
The many (poker) faces of Mr. Damon 
What would you do in 'paradise?' 


Director: john Dahl Starring: Matt Damon, Edward Norton, john Matkovich and Martin Landau 

(Out of five shamrocks) 

By MIKE MCMORROW 
Scene Movie Critic 
"Hounders" takes the old sports star-gone-quits idea and applies it to poker. This time. the star is Mike McDermott (Matt Damon), who is a top of the line poker hustler who bets it all on one round early in the film and loses it all -his tuition for law school and his savings. With no other alternative. he quits for a while ­appeasing both his own conscience and that of his girlfriend -only to have his rationality broken after the prison release of his old partner Worm (Edward Norton). 
Seeing Worm back in action reminds Mike of the reasons that he initially played -the allure, the mind-games, and, of course, the ulti­mate reason, the money. So the night Worm is released (the story as to why Worm was in the cellar need not be revealed -Mr. Damon does a much better job narrating that himself), he and Mike go to a small-time gig where Mike only has intentions of 

accepting responsibili­ty, helping a friend, and acting for one's own best interests. 
Director: joseph Ruben The film opens with three recent college
Starring: Vince Vaughn, Anne Heche, joaquin 

graduates -Sheriff 
(Vince Vaughn), Lewis 
(Joaquin Phoenix) and 
Tony (David Conrad) ­
celebrating one last 

hedonistic hurrah in 
the Edenic setting of 
Malaysia, where there 
Phoenix and}ada Pinkett 
(Out offive shamrocks) 

By RICHARD CRIBB 
Scene Movie Critic 
Philosophers love to revel in logical puzzles. 
One of the more famous of these is the Prisoner's Dilemma. In this puz­zle, two men who have cooperated in a crime arc captured, separated, and given the option of confessing or not confessing. If one confesses, and tlw other does not, then he will be set free while thn non-confessor will serve I 0 years. If both conf1~ss. they will each serve rive years. From a strictly self-inton~sted point-of-view, the best option for eaeh is to eonfess, hoping that the other d1ws not, and understanding that the worst-case sennario is to serve five years instead of I0. 
"Hoturn to Paradise" is a cinematic variation of the prisoner's dilemma, with the difference being that it is possible for one of the culprits to ensure that he is not incriminated. Written by Wesley Strick and Bruce Hobinson and directed by Joseph Huben ("Sleeping with the Enemy"), this film raises ethical considerations about how far one should go in around the standard role of Mike's girlfriend. It centers around poker. 
Thankfully, the movie provides only a few deviations from this central point. We get to sec the different kinds of hustles -one with a bunch of state troopers. one with the stupid and naive tourists of Atlantic city, one with a friend of a friend, and so on. 
Of course, there is the one "big hustle," a joint in the basement of a musty building in New York City, which just happens to be run by a high-flying member of the local Hussian mob whom people call Teddy KGB (a John Malkovich with a really gritty Russian accent). This is the guy with whom Worm will eventually get indirectly in trouble, and the guy to whom Mike lost in that first big hit. 
There is also the role of Mike's mentor law professor, played by Martin Landau, who loves poker too and is floored when Mike recites everyone's hand at the legal scholar's poker game. 
All plot aside, some of the best 
are "girls, cheap rum and good hashish." Unlike recent news­worthy events, it is the last of the three which will be their 
undoing. On the last day of 
their vacation. Sheriff precipi­nr's sympathy and tates a series of events that will nourishes in roles set up the moral conundrum requiring him to that constitutes the rest of the manifest a quirky, film. 
rnentally-imbal­

Jumping ahead two anc:ed personality as years, the story picks up with lw did so chillingly Sheriff, now a limousine driver, in "To Din For." meeting Beth Eastern (Anne UIt imate Iv. t h !' lleehe). an attorney. She film will bP ·PnjoyNI informs him that after he left 
mon~ for tlw Pthical Malaysia, the authorities raided 
dPIJatn that it Lewis' lodging and found a engages and for tlw 
package of hash in his trash s t u dy 0 f t h (~ c () ll ­bin, deposited there by Sheriff. 
science-wringing Lewis has been imprisoned for 
characters it the last two years and is sched­
depicts.uled to be hanged in eight days. 
In the l"inal act, Bc t h has w0 r ked 0 u t a de a I. Photo Courtesy of Polygram the film falters a bit however, to spare Lewis' life if Vince Vaughn and Anne Heche star in "Return to Paradise." with somnwhat pn~­
Sheriff and Tony agree to return to Malaysia to assume their share of the responsibility. If both consent to return and accept responsibility, then the three men will serve three years apiece. If only one of the two returns, then he and Lewis will serve six years apiece. 
lr.onically, it's Tony who consents dropping him off. 
But nostalgia for vic­tory with his old side­kick overcomes his loy­alty to being on his own poker wagon. Hence, they play all night and we are able to see how they once were every­thing but unstoppable as a duo. 
The most interesting part of "Hounders" does not center around the development of the two lead characters, nor does it center 

scenes involve the game itself. How does Mike know so instinctively what cards the other player has? "Rounders" gives its audience a fair bit of credit by letting us figure out the methods and modes that Mike and Worm have for being such con­sistently good hustlers -what works and what does not work. How far can one go without being caught dealing the cards 
of the trio, admits that he would not return if one of the other two were in his position. Sheriff, admittedly sclf­cen tered, demonstrates a disguised magnanimity early in the film when he considers remaining with Lewis in Asia to work with orangutans. Beth, seemingly interested only in the wei­
f r o m --.-----... t h e b 0 t ­t 0 Ill . Who is g 0 0 d enough 
t 0 
catch y 0 u ? C a n 
y 0 u t e I I who is g 0 () d enough by the way they 
Photo Courtesy of Miramax 
look at 
In his new film "Rounders," Matt Damon y 0 u delves into the psychological meaning of 
w h e n being a poker player. you sit down at the table? 
The film pauses before telling us, through Mike's narration, what these methods and modes are (with limited but sufficient detail), in order to give us a chance to deduce for ourselves the genius of good hustling. 
Damon and Norton are well-chosen for their respective parts. Playing a character with vast ability is nothing new to Damon, but here he reserves his cockiness to a more subtle, less 
quickly, despite being engaged, while Sheriff, single but living in style, refuses. Much of the remainder of the film focuses on exchanges between Beth and Sheriff as she attempts to jump-start his conscience. 
It will come as no surprise that the film will conelude where it began, in Malaysia, but not without some twists along the way. This time there will be no paradise, however, as the squalid conditions in Lewis' prison contrast starkly with the nirvanic atmosphere of the opening sequence. 
The greatest virtue of this film is that it scripts characters who are complex. None of the characters' motives are as purely good or evil as they seem at first. Lewis, the noblest 
verbal and certainly less confronta­tional front. 
Norton gives his character a vision in a different direction. Norton is not an actor with the physique nor voice to be intimidating in the traditional sense, but he does succeed in offer­ing a certain cocky, ambitious wimp­ishness about him that may have the intended effect of making the audi­
ence feel a certain sympathy 

it does not see the arena of poker as a disease but as a way of life. 
"Hounders" is not a moralistic statement against the gambling life, although the film says that in order to succeed one must use chutzpah mixed with intelligence and good judgme·nt. There are no prizes for those who break these basic rules, and al'ter seeing "Hounders," you do not have to be a poker playor to fig­ure that out. 
dictable twists and thn aim to dry oul evnry tnar-duct in the theater instead of the preserva­tion of the plausible realism it had possessed up to lhat point. Still. it is a satisfying alternative to the abysmal fare llollywood has glutted moviego­ers with this summer. 
fare of her client, conceals lwr own interests which might affect Sheriff and Tony's decision. 
Vaughn, as Sheriff. turns in a eon­vincing performance as a sardonic egoist who might just let another pay with this life for his own mistake rather than give up thren years of his life. 
Heche blends the right combination of seductiveness and intelligence to make almost any man begin to feel compunction about not returning to share the blame. 
Phoenix, who's on-screen presence is limited to the beginning and end of the film, may not displac1~ L1~onardo DiCaprio on the covers of tenn maga­zines, but he incarnates a sull!'n, dis­heartened demeanor that elicits tlw vil~w­
for his poor judgment. 
Martin Landau is tri­umphantly proper, yet down-to-earth as Mike's law school professor who sees through Mike's ini­tial front to be a lawyer, and subtly sways Mike in the direction that he belongs. 
The settings are nwtic­ulously chosen and lit, showing the contrast between Mike's law school life and his poker life. 
Big-time hustles are not always in the most con­spicuous of places, nor the eleanest of places, and the film romanticizes nothing in the way of setting. Yet 


IRISH INSIDER ~ vs. 


O THE 
Monday, September 14, 1998 ----------------­
BSERVER page I 

By BILL HART 
Assist.lllt Sports Editor 
EAST LANSING, Mich. 

I
t was a day of upsots in collogn foot­ball on Saturday. and in the town of East Lansing tlwre was no 11xeeption. 
On a day wlwro football powerhouses such as Florida StatP, Michigan and Arizona Stato worn knock11d down by lossnr-rankPd opporwnts, it seemod only fitting that anothnr ranknd tnam would fall. Sun• enough. tho trPnd continued Iator that night, wlwn 1Oth-ranked Notro llame was upset by Michigan Stato. 
Tlw Spartans sot tho tono early in the gamn, wlwn safety Hichard Newsome rPt.urrwd a blocked punt for a touch­down !Pss than thrn11 minutos into tlw gamo. Tlw Irish ofTonse had oven loss succoss in tlwir second possession, IH1ing forcod to punt again without attaining a first down. 
"Wp had a hard tinw gelling thP ball to op!!n n1cPivors." head coach Bob DaviP said about tlw first half."and we had a hard timP pitching against hard stops by tlwir dnfPnsivo ... there was a lot of frustration in the first half." 
For the rest of the half there was no stopping the Spartan offense. The home toam managed to score on the first four offensive drives of the half, as well as the blocked punt and a 23-yard inter­enption roturn. The l1rst time the MSU punt tnam camn onto the lield was with 
3:14 left in the second quarter, after a short throe-and-out by the offnnse. 
"Wlwn we came in here, they were 0­2 and we knew something would hap­pen early," Davie said about the first half scoring. "But we had no idea that thn lloodgates would open like they did." 
By tho second half, the Irish defense received its second wind, while the offense showed glimpses of the domi­nance it had the week before against the Wolverinns. After Brock Williams forced and recovered a fumble at the MSU 29­yard line, Jackson used four quick plays to score the team's l1rst touchdown of the night, capped by a two-yard run by Autry Denson. The defense then foreed the Spartans into another punt, curbing the momentum of thn game towards the Irish. 
"The one thing is that our kids did 
fight back in the second half, which I was proud of," defensive coordinator Greg Mattison said."That's what we talked about. But our defense isn't good enough right now to give up big plays and still have the chance to compete." 
Still, for every step forward, the Irish seemed to take a step back. After com­pleting a long pass to Malcolm Johnson to bring the Irish within scoring position again, Jackson threw another intercep­tion -his second on the night -right into linebacker Mike Austin's hands, effectively ending the Irish scoring threat for the quarter and all but elimi­nating the possibility of a comeback. 
"I think our players wanted to win," Davie said.''I've got no question about their effort. But when you can't execute any better than we can, you don't even give yourself an opportunity to play." 
The Irish put up some fireworks in the final quarter, highlighted by safety Deke Cooper's 96-yard fumble return for a touchdown, but it was a ease of too lit­tle, too late. Michigan State kicker Paul Edinger hit a 37 -yard l1eld goal for the only Spartan points of the half while tailback Darcey Levy ran three yards to finish the scoring for the game. 
For MSU head coach Nick Saban, it was the ability of the players that accounted for the team's first win of the scason:"l think the players just came together a little bit. I think they all took the challenge of what each one of them needed to do." 
On the other end of the field, Davie thought that his team was well pmpared going into the game. 
"We came in here expecting to play well, and we didn't ... [The teaml pre­pared like I wanted them to prepare. We practiced like I wanted them to practice. We got in the stadium and we just didn't produce and we didn't per­form," he said. 
Despite a shaky first half, .Jackson rebounded to post, going 12-of-30 for 165 yards with two interceptions. 
"We just didn't execute," Jackson said about the game."Their offense came out point-blank, and I think we were a little comfortable getting with it." 
Spartan quarterback Bill Burke, whose starting job was in question after 
see GAME I page 2 

PLAYER OF THE GAME Q!)OTE OF THE GAME STAT OF THE GAME 
Bob Davie on the game's outcome: ''I'm 
Notre Dame allowed 21 points in the first
I>if'f'icult to determine in a 22-point loss. 
embarrassed, this football team's embarrassed. 
quarter as MSU took a 21-3 lead. The last
Nonetheless. Deke Cooper's 96 yard fumble 
There's not going to be a whole lot of talk about 
time the Irish allowed 21 points in the first
recovery for a touchdown was a highlight in 
it. I think we came in here expecting to play well 
quarter was against Penn State in 1991.
the Irish-dominated second half. Cooper, 
and we didn't. We had no chance because of our
who stared at free safety, scored 15 tackles. 
execution." 

page 2 The Observer· IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 14, 19CJ8 
Underclassmen give Irish new glimmer 
By ALLISON KRILLA 
Associate Sports Editor 
Amid the embarrassment and disbelief surrounding the fourth quarter of Saturday's lopsided defeat at the hands of Michigan State, a ray of light emergfld. 
Coach Bob Davie gave his young guns a chance to get thnir fent wet. Although it was mop-up duty, several fresh­nwn took advantage of their chancn to shine in a virtually pressure-fren nnvironment. 
Backup quarterback Arnaz Battle entered the game in the closing minutes of the fourth quarter, and Notre Dame down 45-17. lie proceeded to march the offensn 80 yards downfield for a touchdown, Notre Dame's final score. Battle nxhibitPd the versalitiy that attracted thr, Irish to the Shreveport, La., l'arado Magazine lligh School All­American. 
Tho froshman signalcaller passed, ran and showed com­posure. Battle hit Joey Getherall in stride with a 40­yarder, and carried the ball four times for 22 yards during the scoring drive. 
While playing against the Spartan second and third­stringers, Battle's strong showing provided a glimpse of hope fur the position's future, immediate and long-term. Just don't expect Battle to take OV(~r for Jarious Jackson any­time soon; he's not quite ready for tho starting assignment. His incomplete pass in the end zone left the Irish just short of a final two-point conversion. 
Heceiver David Givens also saw time for the Irish. although the freshman did not farr, as well as Battle. Givens felt the pressure playing in the third quartnr. as he and Jackson botched a pitch and lost valuable yardage. 
"It's obvious we've got to execute a lot better in all aspects of our football team," Davie said. "We got in the stadium and we just didn't execute. We didn't perform, and had no c h a n c e because of our own execu­tion." 
Defensively, a few players got their first glimpse of col­lege football lifn, while oth­ers took advan­tage of the opportunity to prove them­selves follow­ing injuries to the starters. 
The defensive line rotation could benefit from sopho­more nose guard Andy Wisne's solid play. Wisne made some impressive stops in the waning quar­ters, finishing with three tackles. 

With Kory Minor watching from the sidelines, Bobbie Howard playing at less-than­100 percent and the loss of Ronnie Nicks and Joe Thomas to early-game neck injuries, freshman linebacker Tyreo Harrison's solid performance and four tackles in limited action may help the banged­up Irish defense down the road. 


Game 
continued from page 1 
The most important perfor­mances, however, came from two backups in the secondary, Tony Driver and Deke Cooper, who were forced into full-time roles when the injury bug bit both A'Jani Sanders and Benny Guilbeaux. 
The Spartans made quick work of the Irish defense, but Cooper and Driver wouldn't go down without a fight. Cooper 
problem for the Irish. Linebacker Kory Minor was unable to recover in time from injuries suffered against Michigan, along with safety A'Jani Sanders. Senior 
• GAME ~~OTES & GUOTES 
Bob Davie: 
"I think our players wanted to win, there's no question to me about their effort. If you can't execute any better than we executed, you don't ever give yourself an opportunity to even play." 
Michigan State head coach Nick Saban: 
''I'm very pleased to see our players today respond emotionally, psychologically. They played with a little more effort, a little more toughness. This team played a little more into our strength than some of the other teams this year." 
Michigan State defensive end Hobaire Smith: 
"Stopping the option would be the big key to stopping their defense. We made some early big plays that took them out of the game quick." 
Mike Hosenthal: 
"This is a tough loss for everybody. We came out after the Michigan week and played our­selves into a hole in the beginning of the game and we just never got on track." 
MSU QB Bill Burke established personal bests in both passing yards (209) and TD pass­es (3) in the game. 
The 86-yard touchdown pass from Burke to Plaxico Burress tied the fourth-longest pass completion in MSU history. It also was the longest pass completion ever allowed by Notre Dame. 
MSU now stands 10-2 under Nick Saban when rushing the ball 50 or more times in a game. 
The series between the two teams stands in Notre Dame's favor by a 41-20-1 margin. 
The attendance for the second-ever night game at Spartan Stadium was 74,267. 
GRADING THE IRISH 
Quarterbacks: C-
Arnaz Battle's play dur­ing the final minutes was a highlight. .Jackson had a subpar performance in the first half that only contin­ued into the second with the strong Spartan defen­sive line 
Hunning Backs: C+ 
A couple of missed blocks and key fumbles hurt their performances. Despite a complete lack of openings, they were able to break for small gains. 
Recievers: C 
While the Irish had twice the yardage of last weekend's game, it took more than three times the number of passes. Malcolm Johnson and Haki Nelson grabbed a couple of clutch passes. 
Offensive Line: D 
The protection of Jarious Jackson that was consistent last weekend was vitually non-existent this week. Even though they allowed only one sack. the MSU defense was able to pressure Jackson into passing. 
Defensive Line: D 
You can't give up 42 points in the first half and expect to win. Sedrick Irvin and Lloyd Clemons ran the ball almost at will. averaging five yards a carry. 
Linebackers: B-
The first and only line of defense against MSU's rush. Didn't put enough pressure on quarterback Bill Burke, allowing him to go to the air, which they also failed to help on cov­ering. 
Defensive Backs: D 
While giving up 209 yards passing this week was better than last week's 322, they failed to stop the big plays. which proved costly. Burke com­pleted three touchdown passes, including and 84­yard bomb that was com­pletely demoralizing. 
Special Teams: B­
Hunter had another good day, averaging 45 yards a punt. Sanson was solid apart from a missed PAT. Still, the blocked punt was the play that opened the flood gates for MSU. 
Coaching: F 
As Davie himself put it, "When you play that poor­ly. the responsibilty goes to the head coach." While the Irish are known to have lackluster perfor­mances after major wins, this game's outcome went way beyond that. 
Overall: 1.59 
The team went into Michigan State not focused on winning. An average game against an 0-2 team would have been enough for a win. 

losses to Colorado State and Oregon, went 12-of-19 for 209 yards. Burke threw three first-half touchdown passes, including an 86-yarder to receiver Plaxico Burress. to build up a 39-point halftime lead. 
Denson led the Irish rushing attack with 62 yards on 15 carries, overcoming a Spartan defensive line that is touted as one of the best in the nation. MSU run­ning back Sedrick Irvin had 119 yards on 24 carries, his 11th game with gains over 100 yards. 
While injuries to all-American candi­date Amp Campbell and backup quar­terback Ryan van Dyke appeared to cripple the Spartan roster before the game, injuries proved to be more of a Benny Guilbeaux and junior Ronnie Nicks both left the field early on in the game. Still, Davie thought that injuries didn't play a major factor in the game. 
"We just didn't play or execute," he said. "That's one thing l told our play­ers. You can lift all the weights and you can have all the chemistry you want, but it's a game of execution." 
With this week's game over, Jackson believes the greatest challenge for the Irish lay ahead: rebounding for the next game. 
"We got two weeks before the next game, and we've just got to bounce back," he said. ""We've got to practice hard these next couple weeks, get a cou­ple guys healed, and just come out and hopefully have a better game." 
started at free safety for Sanders and finished with a team-high 14 tackles. He also forced a Michigan State fum­ble at the Notre Dame four­yard-line and sprinted 96 yards for the score 
"I credit our players, they came back and played hard in the second half and tried to finish the football game," said Davie. 

Monday, September 14, 1998 The Observer· IRISH INSIDER page 3 
• IRISH INSIGHT 
Faltering Irish must focus on improving basics 
ANTHONY BIANCO 
Sports Writer 
EAST 1.1\NSINc;, Mieh. 

In tlw l'irst gamn that Spartan Stadium hostnd undnr rows of lights sinrP I1JH7, it was tlH~ Irish who playP.d likP tlwy wPn~ in tlw dark. 
For Irish fans who mado tho pilgrim­ag~• to Michigan St.ato this wnnkm1d, tlw Irish Pmharrassnwnt at. llw hands of llw Spartans is onn that tlwy will try to for-g.•.l. 
If tlw tP<trn wants to lin ish this snason any diiTPn•ntly than last ynar's lnss­than-irnprnssivn rncord. than t.lwy had bP1lPr not forgot Saturday's 4!i-23 slaughtPring by tlw Spartans. Nor can tlw Irish forgPL that tlwy wnnl into llw lorkPr room at. llw half trailing ·t2-:~ against a lnam that lost both its pnwi­orrs rontPsts, to No. 2:{ Orogon and urrrankPd Colorado Stall'. 
Mirhigan Statn. which bngan tlw sea­son with 2:{nl in thP polls. was dun for a win allor two hugo upsots against t h I'll Jowl' r-r a 11 kPd t.P a 111 s. T lw rn 1·.ouldn't havP IH•nn a lwttnr Limn for Nirk Saban and his Spartans t.o gnt a win than against. an unprnparPd and uru·onlidonl Irish Lnam. 
"IJpfpnsiVPiy, wn playnd Lhn run a lot lwttl'l' against a football tnam that ran t.hP lwll nxtrPmP!v wPII," said Saban af'lPr tlw gamP. "it was vnry dil'lkult prPparation for tiH~ dnfnnsivn players with tlw option. and tlwn as WPII as t.lwm gl'tting hnhind. TIH~n. wn wnnm't VPry WPII Pquippnd to play pass dd'l'llSI'." 
It was a good thing lill' Statll that tlw Irish wPrnn't J"llady to play nitlwr oll'PnsP on Saturday. 
From thP l'irst Notrl' IJanw rlrivn it was 1•vidPnt that LhP gamnplan that smaslwd tlw Wolvnrirws a wonk 1~arlinr was ll'f'l IJPhind in South BIHHI. In a pagP dnarly ahsPn t from thn option playbook, .larious Jarkson lwgan thn ganw with an ovnr·thrown pass to .Joey (;Ptlwrall. Part of tlw problnm was that was not so uru·ommon. I'VIln in tlw Irish win a WI'Pk ParliPr. 
:\gainsl l\1it'higan ..laekson was 4-10 passing with an intPJTI~plion. Tlw Irish didn't StJ'Pngtlll'n lhPir o)'f'PnSI' in till' subsPquPnt Wf'Pk by building on tlw passing ganH~; th.-y only resorLPd to it nu1n•. Saturday, .la!'kson thrnw thP ball 20 mon• limPs (:W al!Pmpts), yl't only l'l'!'ordPd Pightmon• n•n•ptions. 
Team 
I. Clhio Sr.('i7) 
2. Florid.•('!) .l. Nehr.~>k.l(l) 
4. UCI.A(I) 'i. Kansas Sr.(2) 


h..Jl•Jlfll'SSt>t' 
7.l.SU 
H. l'l'nn. Sr. 
'l. Washing1on JO.Virginia ll.Fiorid.l Sr. 12.Gl'orgia 1.\.Syr.ICliSt' 


14. Wisconsin l'i.Colorado 16.Ariwn;t 17.1rx•ts A&M I H.Southl'rn Ctl I'). Wl's! Virginia 
20.N. Carolina

top
25 
2l.Missouri 22.0rl'gon 2J.Notre Dame 24.Aiahama 
2'i.Mississippi Sr. 

• SCORING SUMMARY 
1sl Quarter 
Record 
2-0 2-0 .l-0 1-0 2·0 1·0 1-0 2-0 1-0 2-0 1-1 2-0 1-1 2-0 2-0 2-0 1-1 
2-0 
0-1 
2·0 
2-0 
/ 
2-0 J.J 2-0 2-0 

The biggest factor for the Irish ofTense was. of course, the option. It was immodiately apparent in the game that tlw State line would not allow Denson to rush for a 5H-yard gain like he had for his first carry against Michigan -Denson barely finished with !iH yards the whole game. lie elweked out with a net 62 yards Saturday. 
"Wo just didn't executP, point blank. Thn ofTnnse eame out. I think, a little too eomfin·table," .Jackson said. 
StatP's dnf'ensn 1~ame out mady. The Irish oflimse did not. The result? Nott·n Dame rushnd for a yard on throe attnmpts in that op1ming drive. 
Thon, tlwrn was tho play that eappnd that drivn and got the Spartan points rolling-tho blocked llunter Smith punt that State pieked up and ran to tho nndzotw. 
Quite simply, tlwy wnrn ready for anything, and, as a n~sult, got every­thing tlwir way. 
Of course, tlwir of'fenso also WIHlt their way. Led by quartorbaek Bill Burke and tailback Sedrir.k Irvin, the Stato of'J'nnso mulnd six of soven com­pll!tP first-half drivos with a touchdown, including two by the Statn dd'ensn. Thn Irish dnfnnsn a week earlier held Notm llamn in the gamo in the first half' bdorn tho option took ofT and the Wolvnrinns wern pushing to the end­zone. Tlw dnfensn did not prnvent the big plays this wenkend. 
"Wiwnovnr you give up big plays, you havn no chance. and our defense isn't good enough to bo able to givo pnopln big plays and still compete," said dof'en­sivP coordinator Grng Mattison. 
When Michigan tlm~w for 322 yards a wnnk earlier, the Irish know they had to addrnss working with their secondary. When Burke tosses f'or thnw TDs on 209 yards just one week latnr, Notre Damn has no one to blame but itsolf'. 
''I'm Pmbarrassed, this football team is Pmbarrassml, and them isn't going to bn a wholn lot of' talk about it. I think we canw lwrn nxcopting to play well and we didn't. We had no chance lwcausn we failed to execute," said lwad coach Bob Davin. 
Tlw total rosult is an Irish squad that is again tlw undnrdog and not tlw vic­tor. For a toam that still had so much to improvo on af'tor the season opening win but did not, pnrhaps this is the best placl) to lw: out of the victor's spotlight so they can focus on improving. 

Autry Denson's performance on Saturday is hindered by a poor blocking effort against a Spartan defense ready to battle with the Irish option. 
MSU-Nnwsorne 25-yard blocked punt  MSU-Burress 86-yard pass from  ND-Denson 2-yard run {failed two­ 
wturn (l·:dingBr P/\T)  Burke (Edinger I'AT)  point PAT attempt)  
MSU-Seott Ib·yard pass from Burke  MSU-McFadden 17-yard pass from  
(Edingnr P/\Tl  Burke (Edinger PAT)  
ND-Sanson :32-yard field goal  MSU-Peterson 23-yard interception  
MSU-Irvin 3-yard run {EdingtJr PAT)  return (Edinger PAT}  

Pts.  Pv.  
1.7.B  I  
1,62'i  3  
1.182  4  
1,527  6  
1.466  
1,.1'i3  8  
1,.\48  7  
1,28."\  9  
l,l'i7  II  
1,074  12  
')87  2  
')19  l'i  
874  19  
771  17  
722  16  
(>08  21  
562  18  
'i,20  22  
4'i6  20  
4.>4  
.\."\0  2'i  
24'i  24  
199  10  
163  
110  

2nd Quarter 

• STATISTICAllY SPEAKING 
Scoring 1st 2nd :~rd 4th Notre Dame 3 0 6 14 Michigan State 21 21 0 3 
Team Statistics ND MSU 
First Downs 18 21 
Hushes-Yards 42-118 53-242 
Passing 205 209 
Heturn Yards 96 97 
Punts-1\vg 6-37.5 4-37.5 
Fumbles-Lost 4-1 2-2 

Penal tins-Yards 8-78 9-92 
Timn of Possession 30:45 29:15 
Individual Statistics Hushing 

-
ND-Denson 1 !i-62, Battle 4-22, Spencer 4-18, Goodspeed 3-12, Levy 3­10, Givnns 2-(minus 2), Jackson 11-(minus 4) MSU-Irvin 24-119, Clemons 16-80, McFadden 10-36, Burke 2-9, Eydn !-(minus 2) 
Passing 
NO-Jackson 12-30-2-165, Battle 1-1-0-40 
MSU-Burke 12-19-0-209 
Receiving ND-M. .Johnson 4-65, Nelson 3-44, Denson 2-30, Getherall 1-40. Brown 1-10, .J . .Johnson 1-9 MSU-Burress 3-109. Seott 2-47, Baker 2-16, Irvin 2-5, McFadden 1-17, llaygood 1-8, Hainko 
1-7 
3rd Quarter 
4th Quarter 

ND-Cooper 96-yard fumble recowwy 
(Johnson pass from .Jackson) MSU-Edinger 37 -yard field goal ND-Levy 3-yard run (pass failed) 
page 4 The Observer· IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 14, 1998 
-

The Observer/Patnck Quigley 

NOTRE 
DAME 23 
MICHIGAN STATE 
45 

SPARTAN STADIUM SEPTEMBER 12, 1998 

The Observer/Jeff Hsu The Observer/Kevin Dalum 
---...,...,.-----------~-_,....~-~~--------------------.........----~-­
~.
s€~na 
O THE
Monday, September 14, 1998 -----------------BSERVER ------------------------page\3 
• VIDEO PICK OF THE WEEK 

At the video store 
Primary Colors (Universal) City of Angels (Warner Brothers) Wild Things (Columbia) 
By JENELLE WILLIAMS 
Scrnr Movir Critic 
Tnn nagP Iovt~. Sy nth nsizod rock. Big hair and tight jnans. 
And of' roursn. what 19XOs, rom­ing-ol'-agn, girl-dumps-boy, boy­nwnts-girl movin would lw complntn without .John Cusack'! 
Yns, "Bnttnr 01'1' llnad" is rather typkal of' its gnnrn, but not nntirely. Avoiding tlw usual sappy, tourhy­l't~Ply, warm and l'uzzy, tnar-wrnnch­i n g s c P 1ws , i t t: o n t a i n s a lw a It h y dosP of' charm, a bit of' bizarre humor. guitar-playing harnburgnrs, and of' cmrr·sn, musir l'rom tlw previ­ous dnradn. 
.John Cusark's rharactnr nxnmpli­l'ins tlw rolP of' an tH:cnntrir high school studPnt Lalli', tlw guy who r a n · t s ~~ n m t o 
morl' popular. 
Young Lann, crushnd, t:onl'u~nd and hPart-broknn now l'aces that ntnnral qtwstion -should lw com­mit suil'idP or win lwr bark'! Trun to tlw titlP, hi' choosns tlw easy way out. As Lann attnmpts various rnodns of' killing himsnll', tlw movin rnlins 
o11 short st'. e 111~ s a 11 d dis t r a clio 11 s l'rom st•condary charactnrs to knnp l'rom tTossing tlw li1w into dark or tragic romndy. 
This mollnv combination of' t:har­at'lPrs inrlt;dPs a sparny mothnr whosl' boi!Pd bat'on makns tlw din­ing hall look appt•tizing, a 10 ynar old brother who picks up trashy women. a paper boy hell-bent on receiving his two-dollar tip. a friend who snorts Jell-0 to get high. and a t:utn. f'tnnaltl nxchang11 studnnt who speaks no English. 
Oddly enough, as each suicidal nl'f'ort !'ails and Lane sinks further into his sr.lf'-loathing state. these people foree him back into roality. 
With a little h11lp from his friends. and each brush with death, Lane learns morr. and more about life. 
Yes, this coming-of-age and possi­bly romantic movie pol'trays elassic and tired thnrnns like thn impor­tanec-J of' snlf-estnem and the inex­plicabln ways of the heart. But in doing so. "Bntter OfT Dead" loses no amount of' originality. This aspect simply provides a bit of depth to the 
wacky humor. 
find  the  right  Perhaps the  
girl,  or  any  only  d isap­ 
girl  l'or  that  pointing fac­ 
mattPr. While  tor  of  the  
lw lwgi ns  tlw  movie  is  the  
movin with  a  under played  
rPlalionship  role  of  
that  borders  Charles,  
1111  tJlJSPSSiOil,  Lann's  drug  
it dot~S  ttot last  addicted  
10  minutns  friend.  
inlo  th" 1'1 irk.  Although  he  
At this point,  appears to be  
Bnlh, tlw lovn  just as  dazed  
of'  his  lil'e,  and eonf'used  
dncidns that it would bn in hnr lwst intnrnst to dat~~ so 111 Po n n  Photo Courtesy of CBS Entertainment John Cusack stars in "Better Off Dead," an off­the-wall comedy from the 1980s about a suici­dal guy searching for happiness.  as Lane, he possesses the infinitr. wit and wisdom of  

thn  cliche  
sidr.kick.  
Just when  Lane looks dntcmnined  

to complete his lnthal mission, Charlt~s otTers the thought that, "Dying when you're not really sick, is n-1ally sid. you know. really." Although not your average philoso­phy papnr, such comments add levi­ty and son111 insight into what could he morbid sn~nes. 
A tad otT-the-wall and f'ar-l'ntched at times. "Br.ttnr Of'!' Dead". a cult classic in its own time, definitely Parns a two dollar splurgr. at the vidt~o rnntal stortJ. 

At the theaters 
One True Thing (Universal) 
Rush Hour (New Line) 
Welcome to Woop, Woop (MGM/UA) 
Source: Hollywood.com 

• CHART-TOPPERS 
Movie Title/(Gross Sales) 

1
. Rounders ($8.8 million) 

2. 
There's Something About Mary 



($8.0 million) 

3. 
Blade ($5.2 million) 

4. 
Saving Private Ryan ($4. 7 million) 

5. 
Simon Birch ($3. 3 million) 

6. 
Ever After ($2.4 million) 

7. 
Knock Off ($1 .9 million) 

8. 
Snake Eyes ($1. 7 million) 

9. 
Armageddon ($1.6 million) 

10. 
How Stella Got Her Groove Back ($1.6 million) 


Source: Yahoo 
Video Title 

1. 
The Wedding Singer 

2. 
Good Will Hunting 

3. 
jackie Brown 

4. 
U.S. Marshals 

5. 
Wag the Dog 

6. 
The Man in the Iron Mask 

7. 
The Big Lebowski 

8. 
Sphere 

9. 
The Apostle 

10. 
Hard Rain 


Source: Billboard Online 


Video Sales  
1.  Titanic  
2.  Austin Powers  
3.  The Black Caldron  


4. 
jerry Springer -Too Hot For TV! 

5. 
Spice World 6. Spawn 2 


7. 
Pocahontas II: journey To A New World 

8. 
Pearl jam: Single Video Theory 

9. 
Backstreet Boys: All Access Video 10,. The Exorcist -25th Anniversery Special Edition 


Source: Billboard Online 
··­

~------------------------­
Monday, September 14, 1998
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Classifieds 
COACHES: ELEMENTARY  That Pretty Place, Bed and  
NOTICES  BOYS+GIRLS SOCCER, VOLLEY­BALL, BASKETBALL  Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds.5 Rooms  TICKETS  Always buying and selling N D foot­ball tickets. 289-8048  Sup? Nada? Que Tal?  
responsible,dependable,students or  with private baths,$80­ 
NEED A JOB? The Food  grads to coach 5th-6th grade or 7­ $115,Middlebury,30 miles from  nick-hope you had a nice week- 
Service Support Facility is looking  8th grade teams.AII seasons open  campus. Toll Road, Exit #1 07,1-800­ I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME  Need 5 Purdue GAs  end ... we missed you (and you  
for student employees.  Sept-Oct;Nov-Dec;Jan-Mar for  418-9487.  GAMES.272-6306  Call x3501 Eric  missed my cookies!)  
Flexible hours to fit your schedule 6  south side elementary school,locat- 
AM to midnight. $5.95/hr. Call1­ ed near Scottsdale Mall on Miami  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  TICKETMART Inc  I need 1 Navy Tix  love, heather  
5417 MWF  b/w 2-4 or T/Th b/w  Street. Must be available for prac- ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE  BUY -SELL-TRADE  634-1841  
11-1.  tices Man-Thurs from 1:30-2:30 or  TO CAMPUS. 243-0658.  Notre Dame Football Tickets  brent, I enjoyed watching your rela- 
ILOST & FOUND I 2: 15-3: 15. Game schedule varies  258-1111  I need 2 tickets (GA or student) for  tionship unfold in front of me ... the  
-­ with games beginning after school  FLYNN ND/SMC B&B  No student tickets please  Stanford (Oct. 2) for my baby broth­ handholding and frisbee flirting was  
at 4:00-6:00 p.m. Paid position. Call  Private home, 10 mins from cam- er and his friend (a prospective}. If  way cute.:)  
291-4200 to apply.  pus. 3 lovely rooms,one  you can help me, please call 4­ 
TRUMPET, SAX, ELEC.GUITAR  bath.Perfect for families or couples  FOR SALE  0562. Ask for Michelle.  MK-hope you have a better day!  
AND BASS PLAYERS FOR ND  SOCCER REFEREES-needed for  traveling together.Available foot- FOOTBALL TICKETS  love, mac  
SHENANIGANS BAND. ONLY @  south side elementary school,locat­ ball,grad. parents' wkends. $75­ 271-9412  
1 HR!WK! SPRING TOUR AND  ed near Scottsdale Mall on Miami  95/nl. Call Alice (219)282-2241.  FOR SALE  diane .... gel your theater friends to  
MANY OTHER FUN EXPERI­ Street.$20.00 per game to qualified  WANTED  2 Stud. Tix  slop harassing me!!! :}  
ENCES! CALL MEGAN AT 4-2573  refs.Call 291-4200  BED AND BREAKFAST, FOOT­ ND FOOTBALL TICKETS  All Home Games  
BALL WEEKENDS, NEAR CAM­ 271-1526  can be converted  maybe i'll be in bed when you wake  
I'm looking for 2 "Irish Comfort" t- PUS.  4-3888  up.  
shirts for me and my dad. If you sell  219-277-6832.  ND Football-Buy-Sell. Seasonal and  
ABSOLUTE SPRING BREAK ...  them or have a few extra, please  Individual Game Tickets. GA-only  NEED  maybe.  
"TAKE 2"  help me out. Call Michelle at 4­ BED AND BREAKFAST, FOOT­ 674-7645  1-3 Baylor GAs  
2 FREE TRIPS ON ONLY 15  0562.  BALL WEEKENDS,NEAR CAM­ 4-3888  I love Classifieds  
SALES and ...EARN $$$$.  PUS.  ND Football Tickets Needed.  
Jamaica,Cancun,Bahamas,Fiorida,  Female Grad student looking for  219-277-6832.  AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726  Need 2 Stanford GAs  Sinatra is my favorite.  
Padre!Lowest prices!Free  Rmmt. Castle Point Apt rent & exps  Call Brad x4973  
Meals, Parties.  aprox 325 mo. 277-3664  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  
"Limited Offer". 1800-426­771 O/www.sunsplashtours.com  FOR RENT  info: http://Business.michiana.org/bnbreg 219-291-7153.  ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE AM 232-2378  PERSONAL  Sometimes good things come in tall and dark packages.  
PM 288-2726  SPRING BREAK-PLAN NOW!  
1 ,2,3,4,5 BDRM HOMES. NEAR CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW  FOR SALE  Cancun,Jamaica,Mazatlan,& S.Padre.Early bird savings until  Yo quiero Taco Bell.  
Sitter needed for 2 year old. Home  GILLIS PROPERTIES.272-6551  Oct. 31si.America's best prices and  I like it, how about you?  
located 5 minutes from campus.  Needed: Two BC tickets.Willing to  packages.Campus sales reps want- 
Flexible -about 10 hours p/wk. Call  6 BDRM HOME. NEAR CAMPUS.  AMERICARD PREPAID PHONE  buy OR trade EITHER two Purdue  ed.Earn free trips+ cash.  you want a virtual vacation, eh bill?  
Carmen: 234-1744.  FURN. $175. PER PERSON.272­ CARDS  or two Stanford lix.  1.800.SURFS.UP  since when did I give you permis­ 
6551  $20-198 min.  Call617-248-7046  www .studentexpress.com  sian to flirt with the higher-ups ...  
Call 258-4805.  

Blue Jays knock of Yankees 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

The Blue Jays have been spoiling a lot of people's fun lately, and Sunday they wrecked what David Cone hoped would be a big day. 
Cone, bidding for his first 20­win season in 10 years. was stymied as Toronto rallied for a 5-3 win over the New York Yankees and moved within three games of Boston in the AL wild-card race. 
Toronto took three of four from the AL East champion Yankees, and with their 14th win in 16 games, the Blue Jays are as close to the Hed Sox as they've been since May 30. 
New York. meanwhile, contin­ued its late-season slide. The Yankees are 5-8 in their last 13 and 11-14 in their last 25 games. Derek Jeter drove in two runs for New York. 
Kelvim Escobar (6-2) allowed three runs and five hits in 5 2-3 innings, and Toronto's bullpen combined for scoreless relief the rest of the way. Dan Plesac struck out Paul O'Neill with two runners on in the seventh, and Robert Person. Toronto's fifth reliever. pitched the ninth for his fourth save, retiring Shane Spencer on a flyout to end the game with two on. 
Shannon Stewart and Jose Cruz, Jr. homered for Toronto, which chased Cone (19-6) with a three-run sixth. 
Cone was ripped for 10 hits in 5 2-3 innings but escaped one jam after another through the first five innings. He recorded a strikeout to end each inning and stranded seven runners in a three-inning span. But the right-hander, who last won 20 games in 1988 for the New York Mets, ran out of luck in the sixth. 
After Darrin Fletcher and 
Craig Grebeck hit one-out sin­

gles, Alex Gonzalez bunted his 
way on to load the bases. Cone 
fanned Stewart for his 11th 

strikeout and was lifted after 
123 pitches for Graeme Lloyd. 
Lloyd, who had allowed only 
17 percent of inherited runners to score this season coming in, gave up a two-run single to Shawn Green that tied it 3-all. Jeff Nelson came in and promptly hit Jose Canseco before Carlos Delgado's RBI sin­gle off Mike Stanton put the Blue Jays ahead. 

Green was thrown out at the plate on Delgado's single by left fielder Ricky Ledee, but the Blue Jays got the run anyway in the seventh when Cruz led off with his lOth homer. 
If Cone can get another win, he'll break the major league record for the longest span between 20-win seasons. Jim Kaat, currently a Yankees' broadcaster, had an eight-year interval between a 25-13 record in 1966 for Minnesota and a 21­13 year for the White Sox in 1974. 
Cone appeared to be headed for a long day when Stewart drove his third pitch over the wall in right-center for his 1Oth homer. But Cone responded by striking out the side and then escaped further trouble in the second when the Blue Jays put runners at first and third with none out. 
Jeter's sacrifice fly in the first tied it 1-1 and he drove in another run in the third with a triple. O'Neill singled to center to bring in Jeter and give New York a 3-llead. 
Mets 1 EXP9S 0 

Willie Blair and two relievers 
combined on a four-hit shutout 
and Brian McRae threw out the 
potential tying run at the plate 
to end the game, giving the New 
York Mets to a 1-0 win over the 
Montreal Expos on Sunday. 

With runners at first and sec­
ond with two outs in the ninth, 
pinch-hitter Mike Hubbard lined 
a single to center off John 
Franco. McRae's one-hop throw 
to Todd Hundley, who started at 
catcher for the first time in 
nearly a year, got Shane 
Andrews at the plate as Franco 
earned his 36th save. 

Blair (5-16). who replaced 
Hideo Nomo in the Mets rota­tion, struck out six and walked 
two in 7 1-3 innings in his sec­.ond start for the Mets. 
McRae doubled home 
Edgardo Alfonzo with two out in 
the eighth for the game's only 
run as the Mets. who entered 
play one game behind the 
Chicago Cubs in the NL wild­
card race, avoided a sweep. 
Alfonzo drew a one-out walk 
off reliever Anthony Telford (3­
6), advanced to second when 
Hundley drew a two-out walk, 
and came home to score on 
McRae's double off Tim Young. 
Hundley, who hasn't caught 
since Sept. 16 of last year. 
walked 
three times in four plate 
appearances. He also walked as 
a pinch hitter Saturday night 
after being activated from the 
disabled list earlier in the day. 
Blair allowed singles to 
Fernando Seguignol leading off 
the second and Andrews with 
one out in the fourth, before 
Brad Fullmer doubled to lead 
off the eighth. 
Pinch-runner Mike Mordecai 
advanced to third on Bob 
Henley's sacrifice before 
Dennis Cook struck out pinch­
hitter Robert Perez and got F.P. 
Santangelo to foul out to 
Hundley to end the threat. 
Miguel Batista pitched seven 
shutout innings, limiting the 
Mets to three singles. He walked 
four and struck out one. 
Cards 3 Astros 2 
Fernando Tatis stroked a two­
run double in the eighth inning 
to plate the tying and go-ahead 
runs, lifting the St. Louis 
Cardinals to a 3-2 win over the 
Houston Astros. The Cardinals 
avoided being swept and ended 
Houston's eight-game winning 
streak. The Astros magic num­
ber remains at one. 
Mark McGwire went 0-for-2 
before leaving the game with 
minor back spasms in the fifth 
inning. 
Kent Mercker (11-11) picked 
up the win for the Cards, pitch­
ing seven innings and allowing 
two runs on eight hits. 
Rafter takes home Open crown again 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
It was Aussie Rules tennis at the U.S. Open on Sunday and Patrick Rafter had by far the bigger, meaner game. 
Rafter retained his title with an awesome display of speed and accuracy, winning an all­Australian battle with Mark Philippoussis in which both players dived to the concrete courts and sent volleys rocket­ing across the net. 
But Rafter had near perfec­tion to go with his power. 
The third-seeded Harter had just five unforced errors in his 6-3, 3-6, 6-2. 6-0 win over the unseeded Philippoussis, whose usually overpowering serve. became a liability. He had just five aces and 13 double faults. 
Rafter won the final 10 games of the match. 
Rafter, who had to rally from a two-set deficit in the first round but never was threat­ened again in the tournament, won $700,000 and moved up to No. 2 in the world rankings -just behind Pete Sampras, whom he defeated Saturday in the semifinals. 
The match was tied at one set apiece and 2-2 in the third set when Rafter took com­mand. After holding serve, Rafter moved to break point on an incredible point when he raced around the court to return an overhead, a fore­hand into the corner and a drop shot. He broke Philippoussis' serve on the 
;:tfiS OPEN RESULZ:.St 
'NWI.i~'m~i!!i\W::::~::::::::r: .. ,.,,,,.,.,. 
Patrick Rafter def. Mark Philippoussis 6-3, 3-6, 6-2, 6-0 
::::~t.'rn~Ml~*!iiit.@'Ir Lindsay Davenport def. Martina Hingis 6-3. ~:~don Stoll}!~~:fjf~~~~}••• 
Mark Knowles and Daniel Nestor 4-6, 7-6, 6-2 
~~wJW~iWO.Miliif~'i~i' 
Martinsa Hingis and Jana Novotna de[ Lindsay Davenporc and Narasha Zvereva 6-3, 6-3 
•~ri::::Mm~a••oijU.i1il~M'' 
Serena Williams and Max Mimyi def. .. !.1 . Lisa Raymond and Patrick Galbraith 6-2, 6-2 
The Observer/Jenny Schaaf 
next point. 

Hafter then won the next eight games to close out the match on Philippoussis' 13th double fault. 
Rafter. looking like a Samurai warrior with a pony tail and a mangy beard that he grew during the tournament, has a game tailor-made for the hard, fast courts and hard, fast balls of the U.S. Open. 
Philippoussis stayed in the match by saving 13 of 14 break points until midway through the third set, but Rafter converted five of his six break points after that. 
Rafter faced just three break points in the match and lost his serve only once. His serve was broken only seven times in the seven rounds of the tournament. 
It was intense tennis from the start. Late in the first set, Rafter tumbled to the court for a shot. When a ballboy brought over a towel, Harter dried off the court -not him­self. Philippoussis made a sim­ilar dive later in the match. 
Though the two players are not close and didn't speak to each other most of the sum­mer because of a feud that began when Philippoussis declined to play on the Australian Davis Cup team. there was a gentlemanly air to the match. 
When Rafter made bad ser­vice tosses and caught the ball instead of hitting it, he yelled, "Sorry, mate," across the net. 

We're looking for thinkers. Not just their diplomas. 
It's all about making an impact. Andersen Consulting Career Night -September 14, 7:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. 101 DeBartolo Hall -Casual Attire General Information Session: 7:00 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. Small Group Discussions: 7:30 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. Submit a resume and personal data sheet to Career and Placement by September 15. 
You know you're more than a piece class clients to help them achieve Take this opportunity to talk to us of paper. You're bursting with ideas and profound change. After all, it takes about yourself, and most importantly, your insights that can change the world of powerful ideas to align strategy with ideas. business. And at Andersen Consulting, people, processes and technology. Visit our Web site at www.ac.com we want them. We'll provide first-rate training and 
As a leading global management and guidance, and expose you to a variety of 
lr Andersen
technology consulting organization, we projects and industries. All of which builds bring our insights and ideas to world-a solid foundation for your future. 
L::I. Consulting 
C1998 Andmrn Consulting. All rights remved. An equal opportunity employer. 
r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 16 The Observer· SPORTS Monday, September 14, 199R 
• NAl!DNAl fotrmALL LEAGUE 

Favre, White lead Packers to win in battle of bays 
Associated Press 
Brett Favre threw for 237 yards and two touchdowns on 22-of-33 passing and Reggie White racked up three sacks, as the Green Bay Packers reeled off their 25th straight victory at Lambeau Field with a 23-15 decision over the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. Green Bay improved to 2-0 -both at home -in the early going, while Tampa Bay fell to 0-2 ­both on the road. 
Green Bay has not lost to a divisional opponent at Lambeau since 1992. a streak that spans 25 games. 
The Packers took the lead for good when Ryan Longwell kicked a 38-yard field goal five minutes into the contest. The hosts built a 10-0 margin when Favre threw a 10-yard TD pass to Tyrone Davis midway through the first quarter. 
Longwell made it a 16-0 bulge before halftime by booting 27­and 20-yard field goals in the last 7:51 of the second period. 
The Packers turned it into a 23-0 Iaugher when Favre and Antonio Freeman hooked up on a 38-yard scoring aerial in the opening minutes of the fourth quarter. 
Tampa Bay quarterback Trent Dilfer left the game in the third quarter because of a leg cramp. 

He was replaced by Steve Walsh, who also spelled Dilfer in last week's season-opening setback at Minnesota. 
Dilfer did return in the fourth quarter, with the Bucs trailing by the 23-0 score. 
Tampa Bay running back Warrick Dunn also left the con­test, on a cart, but returned before the conclusion. He set­tled for 36 yards on 12 carries, but did catch seven passes for an additional 46 yards. 
The Bucs failed to reach the scoreboard until rookie Jacquez Green returned a punt 95 yards to paydirt with 6:03 to play. A two-point conversion made it 23-8 Green Bay. 
Tampa Bay capped the scor­ing when Dilfer lobbed a two­yard TO pass to Dave Moore with 1:5 7 to play. The score sealed a 10-play, 84-yard drive in 2:22. 
Green Bay's Dorsey Levens rushed for 43 yards on 18 car­ries, and caught eight Favre throws for an additional 46 yards. 
Dilfer completed 20 of his 36 passes for 211 yards, the TO and one interception. 
Denver 42 Dallas 23 

Terrell Davis ran for 191 yards and three touchdowns 
National Football League Scores 

GREEN BAY MIAMI PITTSBURGH JACKSONVILLE Baltimore NEW ORLEANS Cinncinati Minnesota ATLANTA San Diego DENVER OAKLAND SEATTLE NEW ENGLAND San Francisco 

23  Tampa Bay  15  
13  Buffalo  7  
17  Chicago  12  
21  Kansas City  16  
24  NY JETS  10  
19  Carolina  14  
34  DETROIT  28  
38  ST. LOUIS  31  
17  Philadelphia  12  
13  TENNESSEE  7  
42  Dallas  23  
20  NY Giants  17  
33  Arizona  14  
29  Indianapolis  0  
0  WASHINGTON  0  

and John Elway threw for a pair of scores, leading the Denver Broncos to a 42-23 victory over the Dallas Cowboys at Mile High Stadium. The Broncos rolled up 515 yards on the way to their second win inas many tries this season, while the Cowboys fell to 1-1. 
The Cowboys suffered an even greater loss, as quarter­back Troy Aikman left the con­test in the first half with a frac­tured clavicle. He was injured when he fell on his left shoulder during a scramble, and x-rays revealed the fracture. He returned to the sideline with his arm in a sling and is expected to be sidelined anywhere from four-to-eight weeks. 
Elway also left the contest in the fourth quarter with a right hamstring strain. He will be evaluated during the week after completing 16-of-22 passes for 268 yards. 
The Broncos took a 7-0 lead on their first possession of the game when Elway found Shannon Sharpe for a 38-yard touchdown to cap a seven-play, 84-yard drive. The Cowboys responded just over three min­utes later when Aikman hit Ernie Mills with a 36-yard touchdown pass. 
Davis then took over. He raced 63 yards for a touchdown and a 14-7 lead with 4:35 left in 
the first. 
Then, on the first play after 
a Dallas punt, Davis took off on 
a 59-yard touchdown jaunt to 
give Denver a 21-7 edge with 
3:13 left in the opening quar­ter. 
Emmitt Smith pulled Dallas within 21-14 when he ran four yards for a score early in the second. Elway, though, threw 23 yards to Sharpe for a score and ran one yard for another touchdown, as Denver opened a 35-17 lead at intermission. 
Richie Cunningham, who 
ARTHUR ANDERSON 
Join ND grads in 
kicked a 30-yard field goal in between Elway's touchdowns in the second quarter, added three-pointers of 54 and 26 yards to pull Dallas as close as 35-23 early in the fourth. Davis, however, ran three yards for a touchdown midway through the final stanza to wrap up the scoring. 
Aikman, who completed 5­of-12 passes for 88 yards before leaving, was replaced by Jason Garrett, who failed to engineer a touchdown drive. Garrett completed 14-of-19 passes for 113 yards. 
Raiders 20 NY Giants 17 

Napoleon Kaufman rushed for 139 yards and a touchdown, and Tim Brown caught six balls for 12 7 yards and a score to lead the Oakland Raiders to a 20-17 victory over the New York Giants. Each teams has split its first two games of the season. 
Jeff George completed 25-of­44 passes and threw for 303 yards and one touchdown. 
The Raiders took a decisive 20-17 lead with 1:59 left to play when Greg Davis hit a 26-yard field goal. Davis' winning kick came after a 1 0-play, 43-yard drive which lasted 3:38. 
The Giants were driving with under two minutes to play, but Eric Turner sacked Kanell on third down and then intercepted a Danny Kanell pass on the next play to end it. Kaufman gave the Raiders a 7-0 lead with 
14:40 left in the first quarter when he took a handofl" and scampered 80 yards, but New York tied it 7-7 when KaneII hit Ike Hilliard with a 10-yard pass. Oakland took a 10-7 lead when Greg Davis connected on a 41­yard field goal with no time left in the second quarter. 
Kanell teamed up with Chris Calloway with 11 :4 7 left in the third quarter on a 20-yard pass to give the Giants a 17-10 lead, but Oakland tied it at 17-17 when George hit Brown with a 22-yard pass at 8:03. 
Pittsburgh 17 Chicago 12 

Jerome Bettis rumbled for 131 yards and a touchdown and Kordell Stewart tossed a score, as the Steelers defeated the Bears at Three Rivers Stadium 17-12. Pittsburgh won its home opener and improved to 2-0 on the season, while Chicago fell to 0-2 on the year. 
With the Steelers clinging to the lead late in the game, Chicago mounted a last ditch effort only to see Carnell Lake intercept an Erik Kramer pass inside the red zone. 
The Bears hit the scoreboard first, as Kramer found Bobby Engram for a 54-yard scoring strike. The point-after attempt failed, giving the Bears a 6-0 lead. 
The Steelers responded with a nine play, 83 yards drive that culminated in a Bettis score from the one-yard line. Norm Johnson's extra point split the uprights to put Pittsburgh ahead 7-6. 
The Bears grabbed the lead before the end of the half. as Jeff Jaeger nailed a 19-yard field goal try to push Chicago in front, 9-7. 
The Steelers opened the third quarter with a nine play, 49 yard that resulted in a Johnson field goal from 49 yards away for a 1 0-9 advantage. 
Later in the quarter, Stewart led Pittsburgh to paydirt, hitting Andre Coleman for a 14-yard score. Chicago was able to tack on another Jaeger field goal, but the heroic efforts of Lake preserved the victory for the hosts. 
What can I expect 
my first year in a technology consulting practice? 
H.U.G.S. 
MANDATORY 
TB Testing TODAY Monday, September 14 10am-2pm in the Infirmary 

Computer Risk Management for an Informal Roundtable Discussion, University Club Main Lounge Tuesday, September 15th 7:30-9:00pm Refreshments and Desserts will be provided. 
•What 
role does a first year consultant play on an experienced team? 

•
How can I determine whether my Business skills will be relevant? 

•Will 
I really be signing up to be in ..... sales?? 

•
How can I prepare for the first year? 

•
How will I be able to tell if consulting is not the way to go? 


..--------------~-----~-~---------~-~ 

will lecture on 
----American Democracy---­

Monday, September 14, 7 p.m. Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Senator Bradley's address is the second of five public policy addresses he will deliver on campus this fall. Live on the web at: http://www.nd.edu/-webcast 
-~ -----~ 

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, September 14, 1998 

Notre Dame drops two in Wisconsin Invitational 
Irish can't handle Badgers and Hoosier offense 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Sports \'(/rirer 
The Notre Dame volleyball team found out how heavily it relies on senior middle blocker Lindsay TrPadwell this week­t>nd. as they fell to Indiana and Wisconsin while Treadwell fought the effects of the flu. 
"Lindsay Treadwell was very sick." said head coach Debbie Brown. "ShP played a lot and gave it her best, but she just didn't have the energy." 
At the Wisconsin lnntowner Invitational, the Fighting Irish took it on the chin, dropping their record to 2-3 on the sea­son. 
"If we were to identify one skill that wn had trouble with, it would be passing," said Brown. "I think that was prob­ably the one skill we broke down on. We definitely have to improve." 
Seventh-ranked Wisconsin dominated the Irish Friday, winning three-straight games for the victory, with scores of 15-2, 15-5 and 15-6. 
The Irish knew they would have to be at the top of their form in order to overcome the Badgers, who beat the Irish twice last season. Unfortunately, it was the Badgers who were at the top of their form. 
Notre Dame could not over­come a dismal hitting percent­age of .025, recording nearly as many errors as kills in the match. 
They were outplayed in nearly every area by a Wisconsin Badgers team. Wisconsin capitalized on Irish mistakes to raise its record to 5-1. 
Saturday's match against the Indiana Hoosiers was a battle to the finish. After the Hoosiers captured wins in the first two games 15-12 and 15­6, the Irish came back to eclipse them in each of the next two games 15-5. But IU pulled out the victory by virtue of a 15-11 win in the deciding game five. 
"Particularly in the first two games against Indiana, we were really tentative, playing more with a fear of losing than trying to go out and get the win," Brown said. "Indiana's strengths were defense and ball control. They do pass really well." 
A close match in every sense, Indiana was simply the team to have a hot streak at the crucial time the end of game five. 
The two teams played even­ly, with each team coming out on top in different aspects of play. Notre Dame had far fewer errors, more blocks and a higher hitting percentage than Indiana. But the Hoosiers took advantage of the fact that they recorded more kills and assists than the Irish on their way to upping their record to 3-2 on the season. 
The Irish hope to turn their play around this week with the return of a healthy Treadwell. 
They will play three matches next weekend against New 
Hampshire,  Utah  and  
Michigan  State  in  East  
Lansing,  Mich.,  in  the  

Michigan State Tournament. 

Thursday, September17 Stepan Courts 
Co-Ree 6 on 6* 

*Minimum of Two Females on the Court at all T1mes 
Register a Team in Advance at RecSports 
Deadline: Wednesday, September 16 at 6:00 PM 
TOURNAMENT IS LIMITED TO THE FIRST 12 TEAMS THAT ENTER 
Lessons That Will Last A Lifetime. 
OFFICER TRAINING SCHOOL 
Put that college degree to use by enrolling into the Air Force Officer Train1ng School. Upon successful completion of the Off1cerTraining School, you will become a commissioned Air Force officer with earned respect and benefits l1ke-great starting pay, medical and 
dental care, management and travel AIM HIGH opportunities. For more on how to qualify -AIR-~ and get your career soaring with the -IWCE~ Air Force OfficerTraining School, call 1-800-423-USAF. or visit our website at www.airforce.com 
www.airforce.com 



THE KELLOGG INSTITUTE Cosponsored with the Department of Finance 
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC MEL.,. • 

Panelists: 

Professor ILENE GRABEL, Visiting Fellow, Kellogg Institute, and Graduate School of International Studies, University of Denver 
Professor KWAN KIM, Fellow, Kellogg Institute, and Department of Economics, University of Notre Dame 
Professor JEFFREY BERGSTRAND, College of Business Administration, University of Notre Dame 
Join us to discuss the present and future status of the global economy. 

~-------~----------­
Monday, September 14, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 

The ObseiVer/Jeff Hsu 

Freshman Shane Walton looks for room against Pittsburgh but Notre Dame couldn't break up the tie. 
Notre Dame forced to settle for tie 
we offer awide array of workplace amenities including excellent salaries and benefits, 401 K, profit sharing. tuition reimbursement, fitness center and acasual dress environment. If unable to anend. please send your scanable resume to: 
NOWS Services, Inc. Human Resources, IT Recruiter 2500 Lake Cook Road • Riverwoods, IL 60015 Fax: 1847) 405-1388 
Men's Soccer Schedule 


Sept. 18 Sept. 20 Sept. 26 Oct. 3 Oct. 6 Oct. 9 Oct. 11 Oct. 16 Oct. 18 Oct. 21 Oct. 24 

ROLFS SPORTS RECREATION CENTER UNIVERSITY OF NoTRE DAME Rolfs Sports Recreation Center Drop-In Recreation Schedule 
In-Line Hockey  Sundays  8:30-10:30  
Floor Hockey  Mondays  8:30-10:30  
Indoor Soccer  Tuesdays  8:30-10:30  
Volleyball  Wednesdays  7:00-10:00  
Lacrosse  Thursdays  8:30-10:30  
Badminton  Fridays  7:00-10:00  

Come by Yourself, or Bring a Friend! 
All times are PM. Schedule is in effect only when classes arc in session. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O~p~p~o~rt~u~n~it~y~knocked 
fl>r both 
Earn one credit while learning in a city ... continue the tradition 
1C'lll.e lJll"UJ)(aum ~J>[llllnge Semrrll1l.(aur 
The urban plunge program is a 48 hour course, which allows students to experience poverty and injustice in an urban setting... to date, over 3,000 students have participated in the urban plunge. 
As a participant, you will be able to choose from approximate.ly 50 ci~i~s ':hich host 
Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students. 
have included: 
Albany 
Atlanta 
Brooklyn 
Harlem 
Baltimore 
Washington 
Los Angeles 

As a participant. you will join a 30 year tradition which has gained national attentiOI~ and served as a model of experiential learning that has been adopted by a number of colleges and universities nationally. Not I hut the city teaches. -Socrates 
FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION, CONTACT the Center for Social Concerns@ 631-5293 or visit our website: http://www.nd.edu:XO/-nJcntrsc Application Deadline --Friday, November 6 
at Rugers at Villanova vs. St. John's at Georgetown vs. IUPUI at Santa Clara at St. Mary's vs. UConn vs. Seton Hall at Providence at BC 
7 p.m. 1 p.m 7:30p.m. 1 p.m. 
7:30p.m. 7 p.m. 2 p.m. 7:30p.m. 1 p.m. 3 p.m. 11 a.m. 

• MEN's SOCCER 


Some of these Cities m the past 
New Orleans Memphis Nashville Seattle 
Phoenix 
Honolulu 

and many more sites 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Even undefeated teams can have an off day as Notre Dame proved in it's disappointing 2-2 tie with Pittsburgh. 
In the middle of scorching Alumni Field, it seemed that both the Irish and the Panthers looked to serve the other team their first loss of the season. Instead, Pittsburgh was left unresolved and Notre Dame dis­gruntled after two empty sud­den-death overtimes in the Big East match up. 
"We're never happy with a tie. It was a game we should have won." said head coach Mike Berticelli. "I think we were a lit­tle too reluctant to be aggres­sive. We weren't as sharp as we should have been, and I don't know why. We had our chances, 
though." 
teams in the first half. 
All four goals were tallied within the first 31 minutes, while the second half and over­times proved unproductive. 
After 12 minutes, Panther Drew Kopp blasted a shot into the left corner just out of Irish goalkeeper Greg Velho's reach. 
Just four minutes later, junior forward Ryan Cox responded off an assist by freshman Shane Walton to tie the game at 1. 
Ben Bocklage and Cox then supplied for Walton, whose fifth goal of the season gave the Irish a 2-1 edge. 
Walton has now scored in all four games this season and established himself as a main­stay in the Irish lineup. 
"He's provided in every game," Berticelli said. "That's unknown as a freshman." 
Kopp produced the tying and last point for either team at the 14-minute mark when his head­er made it past Velho again into the left corner of the net. 
"We were lackadaisical," said Walton, whose three assists led the team along with Matt McNew. "Even our coach said before the game, he could tell our heads were not in the game." 
The Irish did seem conscious in the second half, but it was the Panthers who owned the ball and kept it in Irish territory. 
Even Velho's season-high nine saves can be partly attributed to Pittsburgh's dominance of con­trol. 

In just the first half, the Panthers out-shot the Irish 10­
6. Overall, Pittsburgh made 20 attempts to Notre Dame's 13. 
"I felt pretty drained, espe­cially in the first half," said Velho, who gave up only two goals in the three previous games. "The energy level just wasn't there. Overall, defensive­ly we did not have a great game." 
In the second half, the Irish had three shots on goal to Pittsburgh's five. Neither team could capitalize-even in two sudden death overtimes, where Irish midlielder Antonio Bernal almost pulled out a win with two shots on goal. 
Part of the Irish inability to connect may have to do with the injury list. 
Andrew Aris and Scott Wells were limited from injury and Bocklage also suffered a knee injury in the first half. 
"We had more guys not dressed than in the game," Berticelli said. "It's not an excuse but without Aris and Wells ... We had to use some young players and that may have cost us some consistency." 
The Irish, now 3-0-1 overall and 1-0-1 in the Big East, will try to regain their consistency on Friday at Hutgcrs. 

Novus 

VisitourWebSiteat: 
www.novusnet.com
• SERVICES EOE MIF/DN 

~----­

page 20 compiled from wire reports Monday, September 14, 1998 
RAN KINGS 

• AP POLL 
Format: 1)0hio St. 2-0 2)Fiorida 2-0 3)Nebraska 3-0 4)UCLA 1-0 5)Kansas St. 2-0 6)Tennessee 1-0 7)LSU 1-0 8)Penn St. 2-0 9)Washington 1-0 
1 O)Virginia 2-0 11 )Florida St. 1-1 12)Georgia 2-0 13)Syracuse 1-1 14)Wisconsin 2-0 15)Colorado 2-0 16)Arizona 2-0 17)Texas A&M 1-1 18)Southern Cal 2-0 19)West Virgina 0-1 20)NC State 2-0 21)Missouri 2-0 22)0regon 2-0 23)Notre Dame 1-1 24)Aiabama 2-0 25)Mississippi St. 2-0 1,733 1,625 1,582 1,527 1,466 1,353 1,348 1,283 
1 '157 1,074 987 919 874 
771 722 608 562 520 456 434 330 245 199 163 110 

• ESPN/COACHES' POLL 
Format: 1 )Ohio State 2-0 1,537 2)Fiorida 2-0 1,432 3)Nebraska 3-0 1,425 4)Kansas State 2-0 1,324 5)UCLA 1-0 1,289 6)Tennessee 1-0 1,171 7)LSU 1-0 1 '170 8)Penn State 2-0 1,134 9)Washington 1-0 1,020 
1 O)Virginia 2-0 952 
11)Florida St. 1-1 901 
12)Georgia 2-0 879 
13)Syracuse 1-1 683 
14)Wisconsin 2-0 680 
15)Colorado 2-0 661 
16)USC 2-0 495 
17)Arizona 2-0 490 
18)Texas A&M 1-1 424 
19)Missouri 2-0 342 
20)West Virginia 0-1 333 
21)Virigina Tech 2-0 245 
22)Aiabama 2-0 165 
23)0regon 2-0 165 
24)NC State 2-0 159 
25)Notre Dame 1-1 156 
·~ 

I'M REALLY CHOKED UP RIGHT NOW.' 
' 
-JOE PATERNO PENN STATE COACH 
on his 300th career win 

Paterno notches 300th career win 
Legendary coach joins elite ranks with win over Bowling Green 
Associated Press 

University Park, PA 
Penn State's legend of the fall, head football coach Joe Paterno, recorded his 300th career victory on Saturday when his ninth-ranked Nittany Lions mauled the Bowling Green Falcons, 48­3, in front of the typical capacity crowd at Beaver Stadium. Paterno became the fourth man to secure 300 wins at the Division 1-A level, joining Bear Bryant (323). Pop Warner (319} and Amos Alonzo Stagg (314} in the exclusive club. 
Paterno, who became the quickest to 300 wins (380 games}. is the first coach to tally all of them at one Division 1.-A school. Bryant reached the 300-win plateau in 393 contests (300-77 -16}. 
"So many people come to mind, so many great athletes, coaches and administrators, the good seasons and the bad ones," Paterno said as the crowd chanted "Joe Pa!" 
''I'm really choked up right now," he added. 
Penn State is now 2-0 in the early going. The Lions opened their season last week with a 34-6 drubbing of then­21st-ranked Southern Mississippi in Happy Valley. 
The 71-year-old Paterno, who took the Nittany Lion coaching reins from Rip Engle in 1966, improved his record to 300-77-3 (.796). Paterno's resume includes two national championships, five unbeaten, untied seasons, and six teams that have finished number-two or three in the final rankings. 
Paterno holds the record with 18 bowl victories (18-9-1}. and he is the only man to win all four of the traditional four major bowls (Rose, Orange, Cotton and Sugar}. He is also 6-0 in the Fiesta Bowl, including a win over top-ranked Miami-Florida in the 1986 national title game. 
The Lions scored the first two times they touched the ball Saturday. 
Penn State's first play of the game resulted in a 77-yard TO run for tailback Cordell Mitchell, and the next 
Orangemen keep Wolverines reeling 
Ann Arbor, MI 
Donovan McNabb threw for three touchdowns and ran for another, leading 19th-ranked Syracuse to a 38-28 victory over 13th-ranked Michigan before 111,012 fans at 
Michigan  Stadium  - the  
largest  crowd  in  college  
football history.  

The Orangemen· (1-1), coming off a heart-breaking one-point home loss to Tennessee last week, sent Michigan to its first 0-2 start since 1988 and just their second since 1959. The Wolverines, who shared the national championship last year with Nebraska, became the first defender to start 0-2 since Penn State was 0-3 in 1983. 
The Orangemen scored the first 24 points of the game and never looked back, building a 38-7 lead after three quarters before the Wolverines scored three touchdowns against the Syracuse reserve in the fourth quarter. 
The Orangemen raced out to a 17-0 lead in the first quarter behind strong play from the offense, defense and special teams. 
McNabb guided Syracuse to a touchdown on its first possession, completing all five of his passes and capping the 78-yard march with an option toss to Kevin Johnson, who ran six yards for a score just 
4:56 into the game. David Byrd then picked off a Tom Brady pass at the Michigan 31 on the first Wolverine possession, and McNabb hit Rob Konrad with a 26-yard touchdown pass with 8:28 left in the quarter for a 14-0 lead. 
The Syracuse defense forced a three-and-out by the Michigan offense and the offense took over again near midfield. The Orangemen netted three points out of the field position, as Nate Trout kicked a 33-yard field goal with 5:23 left for a 17-0 lead. 
Syracuse then blocked a Michigan punt and took over deep in Wolverine territory, but receiver Quinton Spotwood was ruled out of bounds on a pass into the end zone. The Orangemen came up empty as Trout missed a field goal attempt. 
The Wolverines finally picked up their initial first down of the game late in the first quarter, then caught their first break of the game early in the second when McNabb fumbled a snap. Michigan recovered at the Syracuse 23, but couldn't move the ball and settled for a field goal try that turned into a fake. The Orangemen read the play and stopped it short of a first down with 12:42 left in the first half. 
Syracuse took the ball and marched in for another touchdown. McNabb capped the drive by eluding the Michigan defense and taking off down the left sideline for a 19-yard touchdown run to give the Orangemen a 24-0 lead with 5:36 left in the half. 
Michigan took the ball right back down the field and had a first-and-goal at the Syracuse eight, but failed to produce any points. The Orangemen sacked quarterback Drew Henson on fourth down with an all-out blitz. 
The Orangemen could not pick up a first down and gave the ball back to Michigan at the Syracuse 34 with just over a minute left. Brady then led the Wolverines to the end zone, firing a four-yard touchdown pass to Tai Streets with 28 seconds left in the half. 
Syracuse added two touchdowns in the third quarter, as McNabb hit Johnson and Konrad with nine-yard scoring passes for a commanding 38-7 advantage. 
Michigan's three fourth­quarter scores came on touchdown runs of one and five yards by Walter Cross and a 19-yard pass from Henson to Marcus Knight. 


Penn State head coach Joe Paterno gets a ride from his team after his 300th win. 
time the hosts touched the pigskin, Bruce Branch produced an electrifying 73-yard punt return to paydirt. 
Branch eluded several tacklers on his way to the quick 14-0 lead. 
It became a 21-0 Iaugher in the first quarter when linebacker LaVar Arrington returned an interception 16 yards for a score, which ballooned to 34-3 by the break. Mitchell scored again, this time from 16 yards out, and Mike Cerimele, who scored twice against Southern Miss last week, plunged in from one yard out for a 34-0 bulge. 
PSU pushed its margin to 48-3 early in the third quarter when Omar Easy scored from five yards out and cornerback Joe Dawkins returned an interception 30 yards for a TO. 
Penn State quarterback Kevin Thompson threw for 133 yards on 8-of­13 passing. Mitchell ran for 104 yards and the two TDs on six carries. 
--~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------~----------------­
Monday, September 14, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 21 
• WoMuls Soccw 
Blue Devils succomb to Irish pressure 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
A,si>~ant SportS Editor 
Chapel llill, NC 

The sncond-ranknd Notrn llanw womnn's soccor team gol off to a slow start, but usnd spnml and hall control to outlast tlw No. 14 Dukn Blue Dovils :~-0 in tlw four-team Nikl' Carolina Classic at Fl'twr finld. 
"I think wo playnd rnally wPII against a team that's lngitimatnly a top I0 tnam," hPad coach Chris l'otrucelli said. "Tiwy'rp Vt~ry talnnted, hut I thought tlwy would put 11p morn of a fight." 
i\ I 2 !) ; I 2. M(' 0 tis I·: I' i k s 0 II slid a .lt~nny llaf't rross from thn IPft rornnr pasl Duko goalio Ilana l'ipor to givo tho Irish a 1-0 Inad. 
"WP havn !won working on gf'Lting our 1:rossns toward the far post," 11oft said whnn asknd about tlw assist. "I just tumnd on tlw ball as fast as I rould and knockPd it into tho box knowing wn had runrwrs and Mnotis just knocknd it homP." 
llukP fail('(! to gl'l ofT a shot u n IiI :w min u tn s i11 to tho gam I'. 
"I thought it would bo a good gamP," junior dPfl~rHler .ltHJ c;rubh said. "Wn camn out rPady to play and I thought thP ddt~ri& steppnd up in both halvns." 
Tlw Irish dofnnsr) was suffo­rating, allowing just one Dukn shot in tlw first hall". 
.lPnny Strrdffnr had a rhanct~ to build on th1~ Irish load hdorn the half, but her shot from IS yards out was knocknd away on a diving save by Piper. 
In the sec­ond half, the Irish contin­ued to pres­sure Duke on both sidr)S of tho ball. 
.lust five minutes into tho half, Shannon Boxx found Erikson who then punched the ball past thn Duke hackline to IIPI't who sprinted past the dnfnnders. Piper came out of the net to try to cover llw ha II . b u t llnft lwat lwr to it, made a quick move, and put it in tlw open net. 
Notrn Dame continued on thn oiTnnsivP and once again it was lldt who found the back of the nnt. 

] 1 The Observer/John Daily P ayo( a Freshman midfileder Lindsay Jones' steady play helped the Irish to a 3-0 victory over the Blue Devils this weekend. 
through ball right to II c ft 


"Jenny llleft] turned the Duke, on the other hand, here and their athletic abili­hand eornnr of the net again who beat Pipnr in the right­
game around," Petrucelli said. never really figured out how ty." for hnr second goal of the "We needed someone to score to get past Grubb and compa­Heft's two goals give her ganw. 
goals and she really stepped ny, as they could only manage seven on the snason. She Following the goal. Isis up for us." four shots all game. leads the learn in goals I>allis replaced Piper in net Notre Dame controlled the "This is the most defense we (seven) and points (16). 
and held the Irish scoreless tempo of the game and had to play," Petrucelli said. Notre Dame improved to 4­for the remainder of the totaled 17 shots in the 90-"I think it just goes to show 0on the season while Duke ganw. 
minute contest. the quality of players we have dropped to 2-2. 

(not in credit cards) 
Introducing the New American Express" Credit Card for Students. Live for today. Build for tomorrow. 
The New American Express Credit Card for Students is a resource you can depend on. With benefits like big airfare savings, free credit information, and no annual fee, it'll help you get the most from your student years-and help you build a solid financial foundation for the future. 

Cards 

... 
----~----~----------~ ----­
game." 
Tlw Irish only made <lllP substitution
UNC 

The Observer/John Daily Senior midfielder Shannon Boxx heads a ball in yesterday's game against North Carolina in which the Irish fell 5-1 to the two-time defending National Champions. 
continued from page 24 
in with just eight seconds left in the half. Petrucelli and Gerardo argued the call and both received yellow cards. 
"I was surprised they stopped tlw dock," said North Carolina head coach Anson Dorranl:n. "It could have been a huge dul'ferencn in the game. It did give us the momentum going into tlw half." 
l'etrucPlli downplayed tlw impact of the controversial goal. 
"That goal was not the reason we lost the game," said Petrucelli. "Wn gave up four others. It didn't change the momentum. Wo just tried to survive out there." 
The Irish didn't survive in tlw second half. 
Carolina continued to take it to Notre Dame in the second half. scoring thn~e more goals to finish the gamo with fiw unanswered. 
UNC consistontly beat the Irish play­ers to the ball. taking advantagn of tlwir sp<~ed and athl<:ticism. 
At 57:35, KluPgel took a pass from Cindy Parlow and crossed it to Hebnkah McDowell who scored from 1 2 yards out. 
Carolina hrld a 3-1 advantag;: until Haven McDonald padded tlw load when slw slid a KarvPlsson pass into the net at 78:39. 
Anne Horny closed out the scoring and n)corded her first col­legiate goal with a shot from the box that went just beyond the outstretchPd hands of Beene. 
The Irish allowed an uncharacteristic two goals in the last 12 minutes of the game. 
"I think their depth was a key factor in the heat," said Petrucelli. "Their top kids didn't have to play 90 minutes. l think our fatigue showed late in the and were without orw of their best play­nrs, Anno Makirwn. who was in Moscow helping Finland qualify for the World Cup. 

Notre Dame was dnarly not tlw sarrw team without Makinen and Carolina definitely took notire. 
"This is not the best team they have," said Dorrance. "Thny wern without Anrw Makinnn, who's orw of tlw playnrs I've Pvnr seen. If we wer!) without Parlow. there might haw bnPn a similar result tlw other way. Tlw truP test will come when we have our team and tlwy have tlwirs." 
"I don't think wn can draw anything from this ganw," said Parlow. "Tiwy were missing tlwir top player. who's not just the best collegiate midfiPider, but rnaylw tlHl best in tlw world." 
The loss drops the Irish to 4-I on tlw season, but gives tlwm a good idea of what tlwy have to shoot for. As for now. the Irish will try to recover from tlw devasting loss. 
"This is a hard loss to gPt ovPr sirH:P they dominatf)d us so much." said l'ntruc<'IIi. 
Notr<' Dame will look to regain its l'.onfidPnce when tlwy r<)turn to confer­nnce play this wPekend. The Irish. lwwnvnr. know that North Carolina looms down tlw road if tlwy hope to make a run at tlw titl<:. 

By BRIAN KESSLER Assistant Sports Editor 
Chapel Hill, NC 

For the second-straight sea­son, LaKeysia Beene has been the last line of defense for the Notre Dame women's soccer team. 
ller presence in the net has intimidated opponents for over a year now, but yester­day, she faced a ball that she couldn't deflect-a North Carolina team that launched 33 shots against her in the final game of the Nike Carolina Classic at Fetzer Field. The 33 shots allowed twd a Notre Dame record that dated back to 1989. when Wisconsin also took 33 shots against the Irish. 
Beene was able to stop 12 of thosP shots, but couldn't get her hands on thP five Carolina shots that found the net. Both those statistics were career highs for the junior first-team all Big East player, but ones a goalie doesn't want to boast. Prior to yesterday's game, the most she had ever faced was 11 in last year's North Carolina game, and the most goals she had given up was two, which happened in that same Carolina game and in last year's Final Four semifi­nals against Connecticut. 
Yesterday's matchup, how­ever, couldn't have been summed up any better than by the words uttered by Beene immediately following the game: "They completely domi-

Beene making name for herself in Irish net 
. . . . The Observer/John Daily 
LeKeysra Beene, seen here warm1ng up for a game earlier th1s year, has been the Irish's goalie ever since 
nated us." The Irish will be back though. 
''I'm glad we had this game early in the season," said Beene. "It gives us a chance to get our confidence back and to see what we need to work on." 
Notre Dame will bounce back and they will be sure to rally around their all­American goaltender. After all, Beene docs hold school records for season bests in shutouts (18), goals against average (0.36), and consecu­tive shutouts (6), all coming in 1997, a season in which she played every minute of every game. 
"It's pretty obvious that WP arc talented in net," said head coach Chris Petrucelli. "I don't think anyone would argue that LaKeysia Beene is the best goaltender in the country. She has improved in her couple of years here. Her footwork and decision making are better, but what makes her good is her athletic ability to come up with a big save that can win a 
game."  
Although  her  12  saves  
weren't  singlehandedly  
enough for  an Irish victory  

yesterday, she did show flash­es of brilliance. 
With 3:30 remaining in the first half and the score tied 1­1, Beene made a diving save on a blast from National Player of the Year Cindy Parlow. In fact, Beene held Parlow scoreless for the entire game, even though the for-
the graduation of all-American Jen RenoIa in 1997. ward got off a total of nine In the second half, Beene shots. also made an acrobatic save During a rapid-shot in which she leaped to def1ect sequence at about the 70-Rebekah McDowell's shot over minute mark, Beene once the net. again showcased her talent Following the game, when she stopped four consec-Petrucelli was supportive of utive shots in a span of about his goaltender: "I think Beene 15 seconds. Beene showed her played a great game." quick recovery time and ath-Beene has been sensational letic ability in stopping all four for the Irish so far this season. Carolina shots. In her four previous games, 
she boasted a 0.28 goals against average and recorded shutouts against Michigan State, West Virginia, and most recently, No. 14 Duke on Friday. 
Beene and the Irish are back in action on Friday against Rutgers, but the goalkeeper already has the next matchup with Carolina in the back of her mind. 
Monday, September 14, 1998  

Monday, September 14, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD NO 
t>!D YOU SAY WIZAT?f?? COM£ WITH ME" "fO 5E£ 
WELL) I;)Hy DoN'r Y~ 
YEAH. WHY?

-rHE W/ZARP. H£'5 FiNDING MY W'AY HOME. J'/1 SVR£ HE CAN RNP YoV COVR~t· 
FOXTROT 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

13 Trans-Atlantic fliers 
OCJCJ CJCJO cJCJt:l t=JCJCl 
LET ME RECAP WHAT  ~  
'(OU  MISSED.  WE  ~  
SPENT THE. PA5T HOUR  !  
OEClOlNG  NOT TO  ~  
CHANGE THE NAME  ~ •  
OF"  OUR DEPARTMENT.  ~  

~_..........~.~ 
::I 
&oDe-(too much) 
61 Grub 62 Uptight 63 This does it! 
DOWN 
1 3, on a phone 2 Ornamental 
case 3 Envelope abbr. 4 Maritime 5 1962 #1 hit for 
Tommy Roe 6 Share top billing 1 New Deal 
lending org. a Alien craft 9 Rail 
10 Source of an old rug 11 College party site 12 Caesar's partner in 50's TV 

YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jacqueline Bisset, Claudette Colbert. Peter Cetera, Mel Torme 
Happy Birthday: Don't take on too mlKh this year or you'll fall short of your goals. It's a time to focus on what yvu do best and let others tend to the other tasks that surround you. Your emotions may stand in the way of your better judgment this year, so ask a trusted friend for his or her opinion if you think you may make a mistake along the way. Your num­bers: 2, 10, 14, 23, 32, 41 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Spend time getting into physical activities withJour lover. Too much talk will lea to disagreements.

BILL AMEND 
· Refrain from using the highway as a race track. 0000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): This is not the day to be extravagant. Chil­dren may be overly demanding and entertainment may cost a lot more than you can afford to part with. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You'll be quite erratic regarding a personal relationship. Don't evade issues or twist the truth around. You may find that your mate is well aware of the circumstances. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't push your luck with authority fig­ures. Secret affairs will eventually backfire on you. You may not get your facts correct today, so double­check before you make statements. 
000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can work well with detail today. Enlist the help of peers in order to get the job done on time. Getting together with friends will be worthwhile, not to

YOU J"U5T INADVE.RTE.NTL Y 
TRP..INEO ME. TO 
e,E. LATE TO t>..LL 
mention stimulating. 0000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't jump the gun or you may lind your­self getting angry with the wrong per­son. Be careful what you say, or you'll regret every word for some time. 00 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Passion is about the best way for you to relieve your tension. Deep discus­sions will only lead to discord. "Make love, not war" should be your new motto. 00000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't get involved in joint financial ven­tures. You'll have a problem dealing with groups. Stabilize your own position by locking up your savings. 
000 
SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Make plans to spend some time with the ones you love. Family trips or projects should be on your mind. Don't forget to let your mate know how much you care. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You'll be ready to jump on anyone that gets in the way of progress today. You are in a high-energy, get-it-all­done mood and you'll have little patience with those who slack. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't jump into investments too quickly. Loss is evident if you don't 
consider all the angles. You may find yourself in a heated dispute with a friend if you try to change your mind. ~· 00000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Tem­per tantrums will flare up at home. Problems with fire, gas or oil may cause disruptions and annoyances. Channel your energy into decorating or household chores. 00 

SCOTT ADAMS 
ME.E.TING5 . 

CROSSWORD ACROSS 1 Ivory tower figure 
5 Cancel 10 Noncoms: Abbr. 14 Girl's name 
ending 15 Missing Jimmy 16 God with a bow 11 Wall Street 
action 20 Know by sixth sense 21 These can close Mexican stores 22 Spain's lbiza, 
e.g. 23 Indian title 24 Wall Street 
action 31 Little bits 32 Addre&" nos. 
33 Toronto's prov. 
35 Sea east of the 
Caspian 36 Hunter's trail 38 Collateral 39 "Bei --Bist Du 
Schon" (1938 hit) 40 Diaphanous 41 Kind of cavity 42 Wall Street action 46 Sailor's assent 47 Primo 4&Net 52 Throaty 55 Wall Street action 58 Soft cheese 59 Dairymaid's seat 

18 Hard, crisp 30 Provide 45 Major of the 51 Art Deco artist breads comics
34 Durbeyfield girl 53 Marsh bird 
36 Most gossamery 48 River to the 54 Baseball's
19 canada's
Northwest--: 

Join The Observer
37 Neat article North Sea Slaughter
Abbr. 3Biron ore 49 Asta's mistress 56--ami
24 King's home, on Broadway 40Havea--so Angry state 57 Peeper 25 Doughnut­
(essay) 

staff.
shaped 41 Foreign 26 Japanese port assembly Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 27 Rodeo horse 43 Kenmore are available by touch-tone phone: 28 "Am -­products 1-900-420-5656 (75~ per minute). believe ..." 44 Race in Annual subscriptions are available for the 
"Gulliver's besl of Sunday crosswords from the last warning Travels" 50 years: (800) 762-1665. 

Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. 
Stu~knt Resources is open to all suggestions concerning the better improvement of the new j~)od areas on campus: Burger King, South D111111g llall_ and R~ckcrs They arc more than willing to \vork hard to improve these service areas at all of the students-requests. Call Brett Stmth at .f-3507 or Student l~esourccs at 1-(1283. The\' . are cauer to hear from .vou'"' 
~ 


• Irish and Panthers 
• Volleyball drops two 

end up in 2-2 tie. 
at Wisconsin Inntowner 
Invitational. 
p.JB 
p.l9

PORTS 
O THE 


Irish fall head over Heels 5-1 
Top-ranked UNC squad explodes in second half 
By BRIAN KESSLER Assistant SportS Editor 
Chapel Hill, NC 

Coming off a 3-0 shutout over the Duke Blue Devils in the opening game of the Nike Carolina Classic at Fetzer field, the second-ranked Notre Dame women's soccer team was ready to find out just how good the top-ranked North Carolina Tar Heels were. 
The Irish were confident that they could knock off the two-time defending National Champions. They thought they could put an end to North Carolina's 48-game unbeaten streak. 
Yesterday afternoon's 5-l loss to Carolina in the marquis matchup of women's college soccer, however, will definitely make the Irish rethink what it is going to take to end UNC's streak and return tho National Championship to South Bend. 
Early in the contest, it appeared like Notre Dame was ready to play. Less than a minute into the game, junior co­captain Jen Grubb played the corner kick right to senior forward Monica Gerardo. who headed it past North Carolina's all-American goalie, Siri Mullinix, giving the Irish a 1-0 lead at the 55 second mark. Notre Dame, how­
Kara Brown (No. 3) and the Irish could not slow the powerful Carolina attack as they suffered their first loss. 
ever, only managed one more corner kick and two more shots. 
Schwoy and Meredith Florance scored With 10 seconds left in the half, Irish claiming that the foul was a stalling
North Carolina, on the other hand, 

in the left corner of the open net from defender Laura Vandenberg fouled tactic. 
controlled the next 89 minutes of the 18 yards out. which set up a free kick for Carolina. The clock stoppage allowed Carolina game. At 17:36, the Tar Heels got on Carolina continued to apply the pres­Since there's a running clock in soccer, to set up a free kick by Rake! 
the board when Irish goalie LaKeysia sure for the remainder of the half, but head coach Chris Petrucelli argued that Karvelsson which Jena Kluegel headed 
Beene failed to gain control of a ball 
couldn't take advantage of scoring time should have expired. Referee Paul 
played by Carolina midfielder Laurie opportunities. James stopped the clock, however, see UNCI page 22 

• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 
Sosa's shots place him next to McGwire in history 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO Goodbye Babe, so long Roger. Slammin' Sammy ain't done yet. 
Sammy Sosa hit home runs Nos. 61 and 62 on Sunday to tie Mark McGwire, rekindling a race for one of the most glamorous records in sports dur­ing one of baseball's most unforgettable seasons. 
Sosa connected twice against the Milwaukee Brewers to help the Chicago Cubs to an 11-10 vie­tory in 10 innings on a wild afternoon at Wrigley Field. Mark Grace's home run with one out in the 1Oth gave the Cubs their second straight victory after trailing in the ninth. 
Sosa and McGwire now have two weeks left in the greatest home run derby of all time. 
"It's unbelievable. It was something that even I can't believe I was doing," Sosa said. "It can hap­pen to two people, Mark and 1." 
For his part, McGwire went 0-for-2 against the Astros in Houston on Sunday night before leaving the game in the fourth inning with minor back spasms. He is just 1-for-1 since breaking Roger Maris' record with home run No. 62 last Tuesday against the Cubs in St. Louis. 
Sosa, who trailed McGwire 24-9 in late May, homered off Bronswell Patrick in the fifth inning, sending an 0-1 pitch 480 feet onto Waveland Avenue behind the left-field fence. I le hit another 480-foot homer in the ninth, a solo shot oil' Eric Plunk. 
That one dropped Babe Ruth into fourth place on the single-season list with 60, which he hit in 1927. Maris passed that mark with 61 homers in 1961. Now, amazingly, a record that had stood for 37 years has been passed twice in less than a week. 

With tears and sweat running down his face as he sat in the dugout after his second triumphant tour around the bases, Sosa came out for three emotional curtain calls. Fans littered the field with paper cups and other debris while chanting "Sam­mee! Sam-mce!" causing a delay that lasted six minutes. 
"I don't usually cry, but I cry inside. I was blow­ing kisses to my mother, I was crying a little bit," Sosa said. 
"I have to say what I did is for the people of Chicago, for America, for my mother, for my wife, my kids and the people I have around me. My team. It was an emotional moment." 
Randy Maris, one of Roger's sons, phoned to congratulate Sosa. "He wished me good luck and said he was going to watch me," Sosa said. 
Commissioner Bud Selig, who was in St. Louis last week for McGwire but was not at the Cubs game, also phoned. The Rev. Jesse Jackson and comedian Bill Murray were at the game to offer congratulations. 
In Sosa's hometown of San Pedro de Macoris, where his mother watched the game, residents flooded into the streets to celebrate. It was there that Sosa once shined shoes and sold oranges to help support his family. 

KRT Photo 
Sammy Sosa joins Mark McGwire atop the record books in Cubs win. 
vs Purdue ar Rutgers 
September 26, I :30 p.m. September 18, 7 p.m. 
SPORTS 
Cross Country at National Catholic 
ATA 
Invitational 

vs. Rutgers vs. New Hampshire 
September 18, 3:30 p.m. 
September 18, 7:30p.m. September 18, 5 p.m. 
GLANCE 






