• Should U.S. citiziens drink like the 
• Flooding in India has created chaos for millions 
Thursday.
Spanish? Editor Eduardo Llull offers his opin­
and left more than 1 ,000 dead. 
1011. 
SEPTEMBER 
Viewpoint· 10 
News· 5 
3, 1998 

VOL XXXII NO.. 8 WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 




'Generations' surpasses planners' timetable 
Fundraising project is more than a year ahead ofgoals 
By DEREK BETCHER 
A"istant N<·ws Editor 
Bouynd by a reeord-brnaking fiscal year of don ali on s. (lw lin iVI' rs ity' s Gn n era ti o ns l'undraising campaign stands approximately I(, months ahnad of sclwduln, according to nxncu­tiw dirPrtor of development Dan H<~agan. 
Notrl' llamP launrlwd the campaign in May I 1J1J7 and has already raised $CJ47 million towards its final goal of $7(,7 million. c;l'nerations will not roach its formal deadline until llnrmnlwr 2000. <~reat.ing tho promising srenario of allowing two years to gather tho l'illill donations and perhaps nxennd planners' goals. 
"\Vp an· rnal oxcitnd and happy about how this rampaign stands right now. but we rnalize that th<'r<''s still a significant portion to be raised." HPagan said. "Still, wn feel very good ahout our monwnt.um." 
Only I(, pnrrnnt of' tlw final goal rmnains to lw raisPd. nnd tlw dP\'I'Iopnwnt of'fie<~ has an optimistic outlook as thP Cnneralions c.am­paign nPars its targnt. Hnagan said. To mini­mize <.il)' ~lo\\'ing nPar lh~" 1111111n stretch. the c a Ill p a i g n · s s t "\\'a r d s w iII <'lilt c t a series of ovnriHpping iniliavt•s to lloosl totals to tho fin­ish linn. 
First, a snriPs of fundraising events around tlw rountry will ro11tinuP to promote the cam­paign along with tlw n!Torts of regional devel­opmPnt ol'f'icns already in place in Atlanta, Chicago, Los Angolos and Nnw York. Second. a n11W tnlnmarknting <:ampaign will 'contact prospnr.t.ive donors and raise awareness of the opportunitins to donate. Lastly, the dnvelop­nwnt of'f'icn has addml a handful of new staff to 
see FUNDS I page 4 
• STUDENT SENATE 
By TIM LOGAN As.<istant Nt·ws Editor 
Tlw Studont Union excended its ''J7-''JH budgd hy $(,(),000. statnd trnasurnr T.J. Wolfn at last night's studont s<matn meeting. 
This ddkil was discovered earli­or this wonk by staffers in 1.ht~ trnasurnr's ofl'ice. It includns a $3H,45H loss by 
whieh oversees Student Union l'inancos, would meet on Monday to plan wh'at steps eould bn takon t.o rnm­<~dy tho situation. 
Onn possihl11 solution Would be a total reallocation of' funds to the various bodies. 
"Bunning a deficit is unaecept­uhle," said student body president Pet.nr Cesaro. "There's plenty of blame to go around, but we have to realize what went wrong and realize how we can solve this problem." 


Scholarships Generatio,ns Fundraising Campaign 

Run by Development 


84% Raised 

Fund raising totals through 6-30-98 
The Observer/Pete Cilella 



Expenses exceed budget by $66,000 
~enators worn concerned that away, you takn away what we can budgnt cuts would negatively do on campus," he said. "If SUB impact services offered by tho funding gets cut. it's going to hurt Studnnt Union, and some the onlire student body." expressed hope that SUB wouldn't Few of the peopln currently in lose much funding. SUB or the troasuror's ol'fieo were 
"I think SUB does a groat job," involved in tho del'icit spending, as said Dillon senator Eric Linster. the budget covnred the period 
tho Stud<mt Union Board and 
CEPTABLE. THERE'S .PLENTY 

$11.740 in overspending by llw OITic<1 of' the President. 
OF BLAME TO GO AROUND, BUT "I wouldn't label it a cri­
WE HVE TO REALIZE WHAT WENT
sis," said Woll'<1, "but it is 

going to cause us problems." WRONG AND REALIZE HOW WE lin said that the Finaneial 
CAN SOLVE THIS PROBLEM.' 
Managonwnt Board (FMBJ. 
' RUNNING A DERCIT IS UNAC­
PETE CE'iARO 
StVIJliNT Boor PRh:~'IDHNT 

"They shouldn't get cut for what happened last year." Linster noted that SUB funding is tight as it is, and that the programming they offer is important to many stu­dents. "Tho point of all this is to help students." 
SUB Board Manager Ryan Stecz agreed, pointing to the popularity of his body's events. 
"When you take that money 
from .July 1997 until July 1998 and Student Union of'l'ieials took over on April 1. One who was. however. is Stecz. who served as controller of the body last year. 
"When we lel'l last year. some accounts were over. but most weren't," said Stecz. " A lot of bills we hadn't anticipated came in 
over the summer." 
lie explained that when SUB runs an event, they often hire out the University's department of Facilities Operations, and do not receive the bill until late May. lie also noted that SUB events such as the Collegiate Jazz Festival and AnTostal take place late in the academic year and so the bills are often received after classes have 
see SENATE I page 6 
Kern settles with ND out of court 
By.TOM ENRIGHT 
N~ws Writer 
A decade of gender bias allegations came to 
an end this summM as Beth Kern. a l'orme1· 
instructor of NntrH Dame's College of Business 
Administration, settled her elaims of' gender dis· 
crimination out .of court Aug. 10. 
Kern. now an assistant pr~ofessor of business 
and economies at Indiana University-South 
Bend. claimed that she was unfnil'ly deni\ld 
tenure by the UnivArsit.y in '1993. Slw and for­
mer managcmont professor Sonia Goltz. who 
filed her complaint at almost the same timP, 
sought. ba(~kpay wages, attonwy's f'nes. punitiVf~ 
damages, and re-instatement with tenure. 
Neither Kern nor the University are able to 
discuss the settlement due to a c~ondition of' l.h0 
Aug. 10 agnwment. The ease would have gone 
to court on Aug. 31 if a settlement had not been 
reached, according to an Aug. 9 ar·tide in the 
South Bend Tribune. 
Kern, who joined tho Notre Dame faculty in 
1985 as an instructor in the accounting depart· 
ment. became an assistant prol'flssor in '1986 
and hold the position until sho was doniod 
tenure in 1993. She was the first woman con· 
sidered for tenure in the ac;e.ounting depart­
ment. 
At the time Kern applied, the method for ~ deciding wh~ther to grant tenure was not widely 
known. Fa,eulty mHmbers applied for tonunl at 
the beginning of the academic year and received 
see KERN I page 4 

~-----------~------~--~­



r--------­
• 
, ~ 
' 
,f , r f 
~ ~ 
page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Blue Plate 
Special 
I had an awful dream last night. 
It started out simply enough: crowded din­
ing hall. lights and people scattered every­
where, arms grabbing and bodies shoving for 
their fair share of Fajita Sunrise Surprise and Turkey Au Gratin. I ate quickly as to escape the chaos, walked out of the dining hall doors and walked over to collect my backpack. 
Then I panicked. 

The immense wall of Heather MacKenzie 
book bags yawned over Assisrant Managing 
me like some giant puz-Editor 
zle I could never begin 
to solve, green and black and blue with straps 
and handles poking out all over like stubble 
on a demon's chin. I pulled out one bag, and 
then another, but they all looked the same. Up 
and down the rows I searched, tearing open 
the bags to find books on Concepts of 
Mechanical Engineering, old Observers, 
sweaty gym clothes and drawing pencils, but 
my backpack seemed forever lost. And my 
history thesis research, including original doc­
uments and irreplaceable interview notes, 
had been inside. 
Okay, so this nightmare has hints of the "go 
to school naked" theme that all of our subcon­
scious selves explore at one time or another, 
but it brings up something that has bothered 
me ever since I walked into the newly reno­
vated South Dining Hall two weeks ago. 
Why on earth can't we take our book bags 
inside? 
Maybe I'm different from the rest of you, 
but sometimes I like to have something other 
than the table flyers to look at during lunch. 
Last year, I'd sneak in the dining hall during 
off times to do homework and catch up on 
reading before my classes, with the added 
option of free soda refills and a cookie if I felt 
the urge. Mid-term and finals time were espe­
cially backpack-centric, as I joined several of 
my fellow students in last-minute crams 
before the big test. 
But as I skipped into the new dining Mecca 
on the first day back, I was halted by the din­
ing hall militia (who masquerade as those 
nice people who swipe your ID cards). 
"STOP!!" the food police screamed. "You 
can't take THAT in there!" 
So I can't do work at the dining hall. I'm at 
school, where I had always assumed the 
major premise was to study, to become more 
knowledgeable and learn how to question the 
world around me, but God forbid I educate 
myself and (gasp) eat at the same time. 
My roommate and I have several theories 
on this new rule: 
1) We might use our backpacks for evil, like stealing those new blue plates from the pasta line. · 
2) We might use our backpacks as weapons, pummeling the dining hall staff when they won't let us take out more than one fruit or pastry. 
3) We might eat our backpacks instead of all the new food, therefore costing the University millions. 
I've started going to North a lot more, where· the rules haven't changed and I am free to keep my belongings with me at all times. For a University so steeped in tradition, they sure do seem to change the rules a lot. I just want my book bag so I can study. I promise. 
Although those blue plates have been look­ing pretty tempting lately ... 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF  
News  Scene  
Anne Marie Marringly  Emmett Malloy  
Tom Enright  Dominic Caruso  
Sports  Graphics  
Bill Harr  Pete Cilella  
Viewpoint  Production  
Eddie Llull  Anthony Bianco  
Lab Tech  
John Daily  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday except during exam and vacacion periods. The Observer is a member of the Aslrlociated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 

f"he Observer • INSIDE Thursday, September 3, 1998 



utside the Dome 
Compiled from U.Wire reports 
Michigan bill aims to protect students' free speech 
EAST LANSING, Mich. 

A bill that would prevent colleges and universities from punishing stu­dent speech -even if it is considered offensive or hurtful -is being debat­ed in the state Legislature. 
Rep. Michelle McManus, B-Lake Leelanau, introduced the legislation that would prohibit state-supported colleges and universities from estab­lishing rules that would punish stu­dents for speech-related incidents. 
The bill is being reviewed in the House Constitutional and Civil Rights Committee. 
"Rep. McManus wanted to establish a state statute that makes it inappro­priate for universities to establish a policy that would punish students for speech," said Sylvia Warner, a spokeswoman for McManus' congres­sional campaign. McManus is running for the U.S. House of Representatives. 
McManus introduced the bill 

MSU doesn't enforce any speech codes, but the bill would protect future decisions to prohibit speech, said Henry Silverman, president of the Lansing branch of the American Civil Liberties Union. 
"This sounds very encouraging that this kind of safeguard may be built into legislation," he said. 
Jenny Matouka, former co-director of the Alliance of Lesbian-Bi-Gay and Transgendered Students, agreedthe bill would benefit college students. 
"I think that the transient popula­tion at MSU makes it hard to have a solidified voice," she said. "People want censorship because they're afraid. It's not going to change their ignorance, it's just going to censor­what they hear." 
MSU has expressed its views on the free speech issue in the past. 
President M. Peter McPherson issued statements in The State News in past years stating· his "strong beliefs in the First Amendment of the Constitution." The letter emphasized "individual responsibility" and the "spirit of (MSU's) core values." 
"Free speech is fundamental to tho exchange of ideas; that is the acade­my," said Terry Denbow, vice presi­dent for university relations. "Malice and a reckless disregard for the truth is wrong." 
• OKLAHOMA UNIVERSITY 
Smoke bomb damages fr~ternity 
NORMAN, Okla. 
Residents were evacuated from the Delta Upsilon fra­
ternity house Tuesday morning when a smoke bomb was 
thrown onto a carpeted staircase, setting it on fire. 
Norman fire inspector Kevin Leach said that by the time 
he arrived on the scene at around 3:30 a.m., a member 
of the fraternity had extinguished the fire. "If it was not 
for someone being awake, someone could have gotten 
hurt," he said. Leach said he found the remnants of the. 
smoke bomb on the charred staircase and another type 
of firework on the floor in the main entry. The back door 
to the house was left unlocked, he reported, and the city 
is investigating leads relating to the matter as possible 
first-degree arson. "It doesn't appear that anyone in the 
house did this as a practical joke," he said. Delta Upsilon 
President David Burrage said damage has not yet been 
estimated, but the carpet on the staircase and in part of 
the hall will have to be replaced. 
• UNIVERSITY OF CAUFORN!A~BERKELEY Religious group taunts gay students 
BEHKELEY, Calif. 
A rainbow flag waving next to a banner warning gays 
and lesbians to "Turn to Jesus or burn in Hell" was an 
unusual site meeting Berkeley students on the first day of 
classes. What shocked many students was that a church 
used fear tactics to denounce the homosexual lifestyle. 
Pastors from Bible Believers, a church in Newark, Calif., 
led a few members of the congregation in a rally on 
Sproul Plaza last week. The group taunted gays and les­
bians with a six-foot banner that turned the word "gay" 
into an acronym for "Got AIDS Yet?" The Bible Believers 
also quoted scripture dooming homosexuals to an "eterni­
ty in hell." Pastor Kevin Farrer, 40, said his group came 
with good intentions. "I came to share the good news that 
Jesus forgives sins," said Farrer, who calls himself an 
ambassador of the kingdom of God. For the past 17 years, 
the Bible Believers have traveled across the country 
preaching the "good news" on college campuses. 
• CORNELL U~Jl\fERS!TV 
Market falls cost Cornell $50 million 
ITHACA, N.Y. 
Monday's 500-point stock market plunge cost Cornell at least $50 million of its $2.5 billion endowment, according to University officials. Frederick Rogers, senior vice president and chief financial officer, con­firmed the University incurred a $50 million loss in its domestic equity portfolio (that is, American stocks) ­but that no information was available about stocks invested in other markets. Approximately 75 percent of the endowment is invested in stocks. and the rest is fixed income. Henrik Dullea '61 said Monday's loss is not a major threat to the ove·rall welfare of the endow­ment. "The endowment is invested over the long haul," he explained. "It's diversified and really designed to be there for decades and decades." Although the drop in the Dow "certainly has an effect," Dullea said the endowment can endure substantial shifts because of what he termed "conservative management." 
• UN!VERS!TY OF PITTSBURGH 
Health system donates research funds 
PlTTSBUHGH, Penn. 
UPMC Health System pledged in excess of $1 billion to the University of Pittsburgh yesterday, solidifying the partner­ship between the two organizations. The 10-year agree­ment involves UPMC building a new research facility that will provide laboratory space for University physicians and scientists. From 1985 to 1995, the University's share of funds awarded by the National lnstitut<~s of Health grew more rapidly than any other American university's. Tlw new research space should allow Pitt's faculty to compHte for even more federal research funds. The funds will direct­ly support clinical programming and will include a substan­tial discretionary fund overseen by Arthur Levine, Pitt's new senior vice chancellor for health sci<mces and d<-mn of the medical school." Taken together, these steps will pro­vide a stable funding stream of our health science schools; sustain and enhance the University's medical and biomed­ical research ..." said chancellor Mark Nordenberg. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
The Accu-Weather®forecast for noon, Thursday, September 3, 1998 
AccuWeather 0 forecast for daytime conditions and high tempci"ature; 
Lines separate high temperature zones 1or the day. 
H L 

Thursday ~82 64 Friday; ~ 79 61 Saturday ~ 85 59 Sunday i)-81 63 

C 1995 Accu-Wealher, Inc. 
Pressure 

H L Ea &"SJ ~:;]] 0 . ~ 8 !) u u
Mo~d!J.Y. ,, (f 84 61 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
~~.. )'...'\:: •.... 

Atlanta 84 68 Dallas 100 70 Miami 90 78 Baltimore 86 62 Denver 90 58 New York 82 64 Boise 98 63 Detroit 76 56 Phoenix 107 85
q,rQ,~qQ,Q ~ ~ u 
Chicago 76 56 Helena 96 56 St. Louis 93 69 
Showers T·storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Columbus 81 59 Maui 85 67 Topeka 93 63 
Via Associated Press Graph/CsNet 
Thursday, September 3, 1998 

The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Workshop teaches students to study, manage time better 
By SARAH MAGNESS balance among tho different areas. Now~ Wriler Weber gave the students some help­ful tips such as completing the most 
1\von Lf'o Tolstoy had problems in difficult or least favorite subjects first. 1·ollege. but rnnylw tw wouldn't have She also suggested studying some­flunked out of school it' he had attend­where quiet, preferably away from the ed one of the academic workshops dorm room. offnn~d by the Saint Mary's College "Treat study time like a class," she Counsl'ling and Careor Dovnlopment said. "Be there and sUck to it." Contor. Freshman Angela Cederquist said 
The tdght-WNlk workshop series. that the hour was well spent and which hngan ytlstorday and is spon­worth her time. She looks forward to sored by the CCDC, aims to holp stu­additional workshops, espeeially the dents improve their study skills. one covering time management. 
Tlw workshops arn run by Marylou Weber stressed that students who Wnber. a rounsnlor at tho cnnter, for may do very well in high school may one hour Pvet·y Wednesday bPginning not do as well in eollege because, if 111 4 p.m. nwy att.ornpt to reach out to they do not have the right foundation 
l'n~shnwn who may havn trouble study­of study habits, it can be a very diffi· ing during the transition into college cult tmnsltion. and try to hBlp those who have the "[Parents can see] your purpose as 
tond1~nry to proeraslinatn. being here to succeed academically Studonts took a test to evaluate their whil(~ the student wants to succeed as 
habits in 12 at·nas: test taking. plan­a whole person,'' Weber said. She ning. motivation. memory, reading, added that students needed to find a observation. rrnativity, n~lationships, balance between the two ideas in hmtlth. money, resources and purpose. order to create a healthy and happy 
The first step was designed to deter­college lifestyle. mine how strong or weak the studnnts Weber also emphasized thai it is arc in the different areas so they can nnver too late to pick up effective attempt to changn their counter-pro­study habits. ductivn habits. Tho scoring bases itself She hopes that the freshmen show· on a scalo of one to five. with five indi­ing interest in the workshops will ben· ('ating that the statPment is always or efit from the information so that they almost always tnw and one mflaning may avoid the great stress associated novor or almost never true. with the end of the semester and 
"My test scores reflect my knowledge exams. of a subjnet" and "I assign priorities to The CCDC is open daily Monday to nach day's list of things to do" arfl Friday for students who have further examples of the statemei1ts in the self­questions or cannot make the times of evaluation. tho workshop. 
An important point to realize. Wnbr.r Weber concluded the session by stat­said, is that there are ar·eas where stu­ing a theme of' the workshop: "If you dnnts arn vnry strong and areas where wish to improve and you apply,your­they a rn wmtk. Thfl goal is to reaeh a self, you can." 

New offices dedicated 
By MICHAEL FLANNERY callnd the choice to eonvnrt tlw two News Writer 
dorms into offices "a diiTieult deci­
sion," but r.xplained that hn hnlinvnd 
At an afternoon ceremony attended the buildings are bnttllr suitnd for 
by dozens of office employees. Notre offkn use than residence lifn IJilcausn 
Dame President Fr. Edward Malloy of their size. 
and Executive Vice Prr.sident Fr. Beauchamp. who lived in Gracn 
William Beauchamp blessed and ded­llall when he attendml Notrn Dame 
icated thr. new facilities in Flanner Law School in the early 1970s, called 
and Grace Halls yesterday." the renovations "a sign of how the 
Both buildings are former residence cam pus has grown." II e added that 
halls. and each was dosed for a year the changes are iH1Iy some of many 
during their conversions into office improvements taking place on cam­
buildings. pus. 
Malloy began his remarks by After tho c·eremony. Malloy sprin­
reminding the audience that he lived kled holy water in the lobbies or both 
in Flanner Hall the year it opened. lie buildings. 

Prof wins chem award 
Special to The Observer 

International A Conl'ernner. on Magnetic Hesonanee. 
Hkhard W. Fessenden. professor of m e m b r of Had iati o n 
A ~~ t he chemistry and biochemistry and asso­
Laboratory staff since 1CJ76,ciate director of the Hadiation Fessenden previosly workndas a 
Laboratory at the University of Notre senior starr mmnlwr at the Hadiation 
Dame, has been awarded tho Silver Hnsearch Laboratory of hte Mellon 
Medal for chemistry from the Institute. lie also was a professor at International Electron Paramagnetic Carnegie-Mellon University. 
Hesonance/Eleetron Spin Hesonanee lie received his bachelor's degren in (EPHIESH) Society. 
ehr.mistry from the University of 
The award recognizes Fessenden's a doctorate in
Massachusetts and 

"outstanding contributions to the physical chemistry form the 
development of EPH spectroscopy." 
Massachusntts Institute of 
Throughout his career. Fessenden has Technology.
been at the forefront of using EPH to 
Fundedby the U.S. Department of 
interpret the molecular and electronic 
Energy and operated by the 
structure of free radicals and develop­University, the Hadiation Laboaratorying time-resolved EPR techniques to attracts chemists. physicists and biol­measure reaction rates of free radi­
ogists from around the world for 
cals. 

research into the effects of radiation 
I lis 1963 work on the structures of on matter. 
hydrocarbon radicals remains the 
It houses four electron accelerators 
definitive study. 

in underground vaults. gamma-irradi­The medal was presented in August 
tation facilities for radiation chemical at the joint meeting of the 29th studies. and laser facilities for photo­
Colloque Ampere and the 13th 
chemical studies. 


*EXCELLENT SERVICE OPPORTUNITIES 
• 
Boy's & Girls Club 

• 
Humane Society 


• 
Juvenile Justice Center 

• 
Nursing Home 

• 
Reigns of Life 



*FLEXIBILITY 

• 
create your own weekly schedule 

• 
change time and proiect every week 

• 
choose from over 25 different weekly opportunities 


* LEADERSHIP AND FUN 

• 
Become a proiect commissioner 

• 
Develop new proiects 


• 
Make plenty of new friends 


Come to our FIRST MEETING .... Sunday Sept. 6, at 7:00p.m. in 127 Neiwland Science Hall for questions, call Stacey @ 4-2534 or Matt @4-3807 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 3, 1998 

Funds 
continued from page 1 
aid in coordinating Generations. 
"There will be more activity than ever before," the 1976 alumnus said. Seeking dona­tions of all sizes from many sources will remain a signifi­cant issue for the development office. 
"This campaign can only be totally successful if we receive support from all levels. Annual fund giving is as important as other high pro­file donations," Reagan emphasized 
Preparations for the final fundraising push coincide with beginning of a new academic semester and new football season. timing that Reagan admits can help his depart­ment's efforts by rekindling interest in University activi­ties. 
Reagan disagreed with any notions that Notre Dame's fundraising activities rest on the fate of its football team. Studies completed by the University's marketing depart­ment reported that success on the football field does not nec­essarily translate into develop­ment success, Beagan explained. As an example, he pointed to the record-breaking fundraising that accompanied last year's unimpressive 7-6 season. 

Kern 
continued from page 1 
a yes or no answer at the end 
of the year. she said. 
Individuals seeking tenure 
could suggest outside review­ers to evaluate their creden­tials, but none of Kern's four suggestions were consulted. 
According to the Tribune article, only two women have gained tenure in the Business school since Kern applied: Carolyn Callahan, an account­ing professor, and Carolyn Woo, a management professor and current dean of the col­lege. The article also reported that of the 85 current mem­bers of the college, 12 are women. 
Kern's case has led to a number of accusations against various faculty members in the college. She has claimed that a hostile environment cre­ated by the college resulted in her being treated differently in tenure and promotion deci­sions. Kern also claims that female faculty members received lower wages and benefits than male counter­

"It's not anything we worry about," Reagan said. "We're like everybody else in that we want the team to do welt. .. [but] our alumni are very loyal." He added that external factors such as health of the national economy and strength of the· stock market have a greater impact on develop­ment efforts than athletic cir­cumstances. 
Near the time of the University's sequescentenniat celebration in 1992, leaders began formulating the Generations campaign. Although more than 40 com­ponent goats were eventually selected to receive Generations money, three primary areas receive special fundraising consideration "day in and day out," Heagan explained. 
Financial aid represents the single largest commitment of Generations money. Most of the $120 million already raised towards this $178 mil­lion commitment has entered the University's endowment where it will generate schola­ship funds in perpetuity. 
Faculty enhancement consti­tutes a second area of speeial importance for the campaign. Planners earmarked $145 mil­lion for endowed faculty chairs. This money will be used to recruit and retain out­standing faculty, and dona­tions towards this end have recently gained momentum following a slow start, Beagan said. 
parts who perform similar 
jobs. · Although the male prol',es­sors involved in Kern's case declined to comment in the Tribune article, Dennis Moore, Director of Public Relations and Information, criticized the story and said they remained 
silent due to the possibility that the casn might go to court. 
During the first week classes this year, Woo sent a letter to all MBA and MS accountancy students addressing the case. 
"I am disheartened by the unfounded allegations that were used to build this casfl," Woo said in the letter. "Mostly, I am saddened by the damage and hurt that such allegations inflict on my colleagues." 
Woo stated that the Department of Accountancy was the first department with­in the College of Business Administration to grant tenure to a woman. She also noted that the percentage of women faculty within the department actually exceeds the percent­age of women active in the discipline. Woo pointed out that Professor Goltz lost her case in eourt. 



Got Something
''~~~;:~~~=i=.:t.::,:,:~):::::. . ··==~·:::·.­
to Say? 

C{jse Observer c[assifieds. 
·campus construction has been a significant result of the Generations campaign, its costs represent only 20 per­cent of the total money, Reagan reported. 
INDIANA UNIVERSITY 
SOUTI-I BEND 
CONTU«<TNGEDUCATION 
GRE GMAT LSAT 
Our exam review classes take a load off your mind. Not off your pocketbook. 
Be better prepared for the GMAT, GRE or LSAT with an !USB Continu­ing Education exam review class. Our reviews are priced hundreds of dollars less than other exam prep programs and offer you proven strategies fot attacking even the most difficult questions. 
Classes feature live instructors, not videotaped presentations. In-class practice sessions use actual questions from the exams; plus you will receive plenty of take-home materials for even more practice. 
GRE Review: Wednesday, Sept. 9, 6:30-10:30 p.m., and five Saturdays, Sept. 12-0ct. 10, 8 a.m. to noon, at IUSB; $349. GMAT Review: five Tuesdays, Sept. 15, 22, Oct. 6, 13 and 20, 6-10 p.m., and Saturday, Oct. 24, 1-5 p.m., at IUSB; $349. LSAT Review: three Wednesdays, Sept. 9-23, 6:30-10:30 p.m., and Saturday, Sept. 12, 8 a.m.-noon, at IUSB; $249; or four Thursdays, Oct. 29-Nov. 19, 6-10 p.m. at IUSB; $249. 
To register or for more information, call IUSB Continuing Education at 237-4261. 

lWfNTIETH CfNTURY FOX PRfSfNTS AFARRHlY BROTHfRS MOVI1 CAMfRON DIAl MATI DilLON BfN STillfR "THfRf'S SOMHHING ABOUT MARY" lH fVANS CHRIS flliOTI Mus:; JONATHAN RICHMAN ~""~:HAPPY WAlTfRS &TOM WOlFf """"""'MARC S. FlSCHfR 1 ~1!1CHRISTOPHfR GRffNBURY ~r~~ MARK IRWIN As c c s c 
I'' "I • '• 

Jii\W~ PHfR FARRHlY &BOBBY fARRHlY ll<!looci1fRANK BWDOR &MICHAfl STfiNBfRG AND CHARlfS B. WfSSlfR &BRADlfY THOMAS "0:: WDfCTfR &JOHN J. STRAUSS ~~~~N~ifD DfCTfR &JOHN J. STRAUSS AND PHfR fARRfllY &BOBBY FARRHlY mftai1BOBBY fARRfllY &PHfR FARRHlY l~l ffi~ www.aboutmary.com .o•·-·"'·~~ 
"One of the great things about adding endowed chairs is they raise the quality of edu­cation without affecting tuition," he added. 
A third primary component in the campaign is money for the Hesburgh Library. The campaign has already raised $17 million. much to impove and add academic collections. 

While a recent increase in 

Thursday, Scptcmbl"r j, 1998 
I· .-GRIEFS 
Pakistan: India's missile tests threaten the region 
ISLAMABAD. Pakistan 
Pakistan on Wt~dnnsday protnstnd a missile tPst this Wf'f'k by rwighboring India. warning that such WPapons programs endanger the Pntin• n•gion. India on Trwsday tnst-lirnd a short-rang" ground-to-air Akash missiln as part ol' an ongoing missile dnvnlopnwnt pro­gram, Indian nnws rq)f)rts said. Thn rocknt is dPsigrlf•d to f'arry t'onvnnt.ional weapons. In rt•sponsP. tlw Pakistani ForPign Ministry said tlw dPploymPnt and tnsting ol' such missilns undPrminPs rPgional spt·urity, and urgnd intPrJJational pri'SSLJJ'I' on India to show n•straint in dnvf'loping wt~apons. Pakistan has lost tlln•n wars sirH~P I<J4X to its largnr nf'igll­hor India. and in May it nxplodnd its J'irst atomir wPapons in n•sponsl' to a snries ol' nurlt•ar wt•apons tnsts by India this ynar. 
Earl rages through Florida 
I'ANAMA CITY B EACII, 1:1a. 
UnprPdictabiP llurricanP Earl lumiH~rPd 
'v\'t•drwsday toward )."lorida's l'anhandiP wit.h 
I00 mph ~inds, flooding strnPts, shParing oil' 
ll'f'l' limbs and whipping up dangPrmrs surl'. 
"It's sitting out thPrt• kind ol' shopping for a 
placP to ronw in. Thn longnr it stays the lllflrf' 
it's going to huild," said Mick llonwr. !i I, a rar 
saiPsman from Panama City Bnach buying bat­
tPriPs at a Wai-Mart.. Though still oiTshorn. 
Jo:<rrl's l'llh·ts wnn• aln~ady llf'ing f'dt along tlw 
roast hy Wndrwsday twnning. Winds gustnd 
up to :iO mph as Panama City Bnach n1sidnnts 
boardl'd up homPs and busirwssns. Many 
tourists paf'kl'd up and ll'l't. At S p.m. El>'l~. 
l·:arl was t:l'ntnrl'd about 70 milns south-south­
WPst of' IJPstin. Fla.. moving nortlwast near I0 
mph. llurrie<tnP-f'orcP winds nxtnndnd out f)() 
milt•s to tlw nasl of' tlw cnntnr and tropical 
stonn-f'orcP winds of' :!1J mph nxtnndnd out 17:-i 
mill's. Earl's t:Pnlf'l" was nxpertml to conw 
ashon• narly Thursday. tlwn cut across south­
l'rrl (;Porgia and into South Carolina. A hurri­
ranf' warning was poslf'(l for about 320 mill's 
ol' f'oastlirw. l'rom Pascagoula. Miss., to a point 
rwar TallahassPfL MPanwhiln, islands ofT 
Tallahassf'P wnrP under mandatory evacua­
tion. 
FDA approves cancer drug 
BETIIESDA, Mel. 
Tlw first in a wavo of gmw-based attacks on ranrPr took a step forward Wednosday as gov­nrnnwnt seiPnlists recornnwrHlnd that the drug, IIPI'f'Pptin. he sold to l'ight advanend bnmst r.arlf'f'l'. IIPrcoptin does not cure hrnasl r<LIH'Pr, hut for sornf' :~o rwreent of patients wlros(~ tumors an~ 1\wiPd by a bad genn. it om~rs a chant:f' at living a lilllo longor after the rancm· has spread through a woman's body, sdnnlif'ic advisors to tlw Food and Drug Administration eoncludml. In a seeond poten­tially critical advanen against breast cancer on Wedrwsday. FDA of'licials said another drug, tarnoxift~n. may n~duco chances that healthy wornPn will gnt tlw disnas11 late in life. 
S&P 500: 
Composite 
990.47 Volume: 
I ,058,934,300 
7782.37 
-.1.7<) 

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 

AFP PhotorThe Statesman 
Th e Rescuers: An·ny pe1·smmd rescue childreu in Maida TolJ!n in West RmHal state ofludia Tuesday after Maida tolJ!1l aud adjoiui11JJ arms r!f'Malda district a11d parts of Bihar state lay sttlmm~qed in Jl!ater. A total of53 milliou people IJtlPC bew ajji·cted by the floods. 







Rising Waters 
Tensions run high ""as floods continue 
"\, 

··'to ravage India 
........ A:~?CIATED PRESS 
....... 
AHSASII U KBULL/\11, India 

Poor villagers driven from their mud huts by the worst Oooding in decades in northern India pushed and punched each other Wndnesday as they vied for scarce food packets. 
Tho death toll from the relentless rains has risnn to mmrly l,3!i0, offi­cials said. 
Nearly 12 million villagers have been maroonml or left shelterless in the past thrne weeks as the monsoon rains pushed rivers over their banks in Uttar Pradesh, the most populous Indian state with 1!iO million people. 
On Wednesday, air force heli­copters ferried crucial food supplins to thousands of villagr,s whose only connection to civilization are makeshift helipads built on rain­soaked terrain. Air Commodore B.N. Gokhale, a spokesman for the air 
FLOODS IN INDIA 
• 
More than 53 million affected 

• 
1,350 dead, 12 million villagers rendered homeless in 3 weeks 


force, told The Associated Press. 
Gokhale said pilots were flying 20 or more sorties a day to drop food packnts in battered and hungry vil­lages. 
Nnar Parsashukrullah, a Muslim­dominated village that until last week was under 7 feet of water, about 1,000 men, women and children lined up to reenive pareels of rice. 
Several young men jostled oaeh other and threw punches as thny grabbed for the small packets thrown from a parked truck by volunteers. Police tried to keep order with wood­en dubs. 
Rescue workers said they wore hamstrung by a shortage of boats and doctors. "We eould do with 300 more boats," Pradnep Srivastava, a local government official, told reporters in Gorakhpur, tho hardest­hit district. 
Rescuers are relying on 7,685 
small country boats and 73 motor­ized skill's, officials said. Tlw govern­ment's Flood Control Conter in Lucknow, the state capital, said 23,145 villages in 47 of tlw state's 83 districts were citlwr submerged or surroundod by water. At loast 1.203 people have drowned and another 141 have died from wate1·borno dis­eases such as cholera, diarrhea and hepatitis, the center said. 
Villagers strandml in relinf camps have little or no access to drinking water and often drink. bathe and wash their dothes in fdid water. In deep lloodwatcrs, poisonous cobras and vipers have be1m fluslwd from their homes. and doctors have bnen trnaling a growing number of snakcbitns. 
Most of thosn rnndernd honwless or marooned are poor !'armors who live in mud-thatched homes. Kasha Singh Gosain, a 45-year-old f'armnr who lives ncar Gorakhpur, said he would have carnr,d $1 !iO from his rice -a third of his income for the ynar -if the rains hadn't come. 
"Below this lies my rier, crop," he said. pointing to a vast expanse of water outside his village. 
• NORTHERN IRELAND 


IRA will 'work with' disarmament groups 
ASSOCIATED PRESS nngotiatnr and a reputed for­terrorist laws designed to Thursday night. 
mer IHA chief -would work imprison lit\ dissidents who Most of his critics said they BELFAST with the Canadian-led com­oppose tho April aeeord. supported the proposed The Irish Hepubliean Army mission charged with dis­British Prime Minister crackdown but thought took a stnp closer to disarm­arming paramilitary groups Tony Blair faced stronger­Parlianwnt deserved nHJI'I) 
ing Wednesday, while poaen­under terms of Northern than-expected criticism from time to consider amend­MOST TRADED STOCKS making momentum mounted Iroland's peace accord. a minority of lawmakers -nwnts to the bill, which rnMI'a~:.: l'lfKl-'11 'tit ru.&t~~iir i li&lt:ll I'UH I on the evr, of President In London and Dublin, the including 16 from his own would restrict the right to 
ll~·tll.untpult•r ('urp. !Jill +17.\% +i.K7.5 110.2~ 

Clinton's visit. British and Irish govern­Labor Party -over his silence for suspeeted lit\ dis­
lnll'l <.urp L'JIL -1.-IH% -1.12; 74.HH 1_.1\UI\y\ll•nn l11t: C."'CO + I.HI'~• +l.fi25 91,62~ 

Ending months of delay, mnnts welcomed Sinn Fein's determination to push his sidents and give greater
\,lllllllllol Lurp SANM ·I.HO'K( -2. t25 25.125 
Mu:rmnll Corp MSFJ' -O.t1H'If• -O.hHH lflO . .Sfi 

tho IHA-allied Sinn Fnin move as they convened Terrorism and Conspiracy weight in court to police
Wnrhu·mnlnc WUl\.1 +.tJK'Ji• +1.5(Kl 45.7.5
,,, r

Cmtt·nt.u" , I ; ./, ( .J ~ .. -l5.06 party announced that Marlin emergency sessions of law­Bill through both houses of daims that people are splin­
Or.u.:ll•t'uq•. <·Rt:l. .J.:c.:c.,;, ·L.l.if, 20..ll 

t'lt.'l\il Curp. CJF.N ·15.:14'1'1'• ·S.t25 2H.47 McGuinness -its senior makers to push through anti-Parliament by ter-group members.
Yahon ltH' YIIOO +7.601/f• +5 ..~0,0() 77.7.1 



The Observer/Peter Richardson 
Pete Cesaro announced yesterday that the Office of the President would cut 20 percent of its budget, amounting to $8,000, in an attempt to recoup money that was lost in the last fiscal year due to excessive spending. 
agreed that the loss must be erased. 

"Someone will take the hit," said Wolfe. "Whether it's now or later. the FMB will decide .... We don't exactly know where the money is going to come from." 
In other Senate news: 

•The senate passed a resolution calling for increased student involvement in the selection of commencement speakers. The bill was written last spring during the controversy over the selection of Indiana Lt. Governor Joe Kernan. 
The resolution, which calls for t:hange in the time for solicitation of ideas from the junior class offi­cers, has been the subject of significant debate in the Senate and has been rewritten several times. If it did not pass at this meeting, it would have been 
killed under senate procedural laws. The motion passed 22-1-3. 
•The senate unanimously passed a resolution com­mending the University for its work on campus improvements over the summer. 
"This will put the honor where it needs to go," said residence life eommittee ehair Matt Mamak. "This is a clear, easy way to show our gratitude." 

Got News? 1-5323 
IN CONCERT BLESSID UNION OF SOULS 

SAT\JRDAY·SEPTEMBER12 • 8 PM OLAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM· SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
TICKITS ON SALE ATTHE SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE BOX OFFICE IN OLAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM, OPEN 9 AM-5 PM, MONDAY-FRIDAY. CREDIT CARD ORDERS BY PHONE: 
2191284-4626 

ADULTTICKITSALSO AVAILABLE AT ALL ~~TICKIT CENTERS INCLUDING ORBIT AND L..S. AYRES. TO CHARGE TICKITS BY PHONE, CALL 
2191272-7979 
To purchase online: 

Mgfjf£)
http://www.ticketmaster.com 

I c_~ 
THE ARTS ~NOTAEDAMii:, IN 


$JU ,_l'lCl(P~l' ·r ,O'l"l'EHY 
757268 757532 757735 757875 
757276 757559 757738 757894 
757289 757578 757740 757903 
757293 757581 757750 757920 
757361 757583 757753 757921 
757415 757607 757756 757929 
757419 757617 757766 757941 
757423 757618 757781 757989 
757433 757620 757791 757995 
757487 757636 757822 758005 
757500 757656 757826 758015 
757522 757676 757835 758031 
757525 757685 757861 758034 
757528 757719 757869 758039 
1\ill:J~[(S_,
oh" ' • < N ·--~' • ~ < 
758058 758205 758325 758071 758207 758342 758087 758213 758356 758091 758233 758369 758121 758235 758405 758122 758242 758411 758137 758244 758422 758153 758247 758436 758159 758293 758460 758162 758295 758461 758166 758302 758477 758169 758317 758487 758174 758320 758497 
ceb
758182 758324 758512 
www.nd.edu/-sub 

·~------~--~----------~---------~-­
Thursday, September 3. I 998 The Observer • NEWS page 7 


Tough college assignment: finding housing in big cities 
A\.HK:iatcd Pre~.\ 
BOSTON 
llPI'orP slw PVI'n crackPd a hook f(Jr gradual!~ srhool. .Jnnnil'nr .I(HJSI'n was handnd orw of' tlw touglwst assignnwnts in Boston: competing with (,7,0()() otlwr stwiPnts in finding a plaen to livo. 
.lmlsPn arrivml in this collngn-rieh city only to IParn slu• was homPlnss. i\n apartmnnt shn found had IH'(~Jl rnntPd out from undPr her, a rnsult of' tlw tight PSI housing crunch in yPars. 
Tlw story is tlw sanw in ritiPs across tlw (:ountry. Slim vawn­away-havn no way back in. 

Nationally, mnts rose 3.2 percent between Juno l<J<J7 and June 1998, according to a National Multi llousing Council n~port based on data from the Dnpart-ment of Labor. 
In eitins with larg~~ studnnt populations, rents rose even fastnr. 
In Berkeley, the avnrage monthly rent now for a one-bedroom apartment is $763, according to coll(~gn housing of'lkials. Hents in the Boston arna, whnre students pay from $800 to $1,400 for a one-bedroom horne, increased an average of 4.3 
('Y ratPs and anti-studPnt atli-'LOANS FOR SCHOOL ARE percent dursing the year endihngtudl's an· forcing young schol-in June. In .'an 1<randsco-t e ars to sharn apartnwnts, to $22,000 A YEAR, AND nation's second-most expensive sPPk dormitory rooms and Pwn I'M GONNA HAVE DEBTS FOR real estat(~ market, aecording to camp out on campus. some surveys -rents went up Ilousing is so tight at tlw THE REST OF MY LIFE. I JUST 8.3 percnnt in the same period. UnivPrsity of' California, DIDN'T REALIZE IT WOULD BE Even in small cities, students llPrkPIPy that orw studPnt rolll'd face a cnrnch. Landlords in out a siPPping bag in a Bay SO HARD TO FIND SOME-Burlington, Vt. -where the /\rna Hapid Transit district sta-WHERE TO LIVE.' vacancy rate is only 1 percent 
lion. and a one-bedroom plaee aver­i\noi.IH•r lived in a van. At agns about $660 -say it's not Stanford Univnrsity, somP stu­JHNNIFER JENSEN uneommon to n~ceiV(~ 50 phone dPnts pitdwd tents on rampus COU.HGH STII/JhNT IN BOSTON calls the !irst day an apartmentis advertised. Prospective ten­
to protnst rPntal ratns. 
Boston's :~ pPrn~nt vacancy ralP. tlw lowPsl in almost 15 years, has stuchmts srrambling for housing lwl'ore tlw snnwstnr bngins. 
"Loans for school an~ $22,000 a ynar, and I'm gonna haw ddJts for tlw rest of my life," .Jensen -;aid. 
"I just didn't rnaliw it would be so hard to find som(•wlwrP to livn." 
Sonu• studnnts an• clamoring to livn in dorms. But Boston's :~2 an~a colleges and universitins rannot ofl'nr tlw sanw guarantnn as small lib1~ral arts schools, such as William Collegn, whieh pro­vidn l'our years of' rampus housing. 
And studnnts who opt out ol' Boston Univer­sity's housing syst(Hll their sophomorn year ­rm.tylu~ for a rlH~apnr apartmnnt. a few bloeks 

ants often offer to pay more than the advertised rent, said .Joan Tessinr, owner of Apartment Finders. 
i\nd in Seattle, th(~ vaeancy rate has dropped to 2 pnreent, according to the Student llousing Ofliee at tlu~ University of Washington. 
i\t this time last year, the office was receiving 30 to 40 housing listings eaeh day. Now, an average day brings only 14 listings. 
i\t the sanw timn, rents for studios and one­bedroom apartments-which range from $550­$700-are going up an average of $100. 
"Our school doesn't start until the end of September, so a lot of problems haven't gotten that bad yBt," student Alysia Madsen said. "But in about three weeks students will start to freak out." 
Please recycle The Observer .. 
Class of 1999... 

THURSDAYS 
Join us for cool music, dancing and CLASS-OF-1999 PRICES! 
• 99¢ Specials 
• 99¢ Cover with Student ID ($5 without) 
222 S. MICHIGAN ST. SOUTH BEND • (219) 234-5200 
www.aceplaces com/heartland 



Teens know TV stats, not governiDent info 

government eventually will con­
tribute half the $130 million 
WASHINGTON eost. 
Three-quarters of all American The center's survey was teen-agers know what city has released a few days before the the ZIP code 90210 (Beverly start of Constitution Week, Sept. 
Hills), but only one-quarter know 17 to Sept. 23, an observance in what city the Constitution was that will mark the 21.lth written (Philadelphia). anniversary of the signing of the 
And 81 percent know that the Constitution. musical group Hanson is made The nationwide telephone sur­up of three brothers. vey of 600 teen-agers between 
Twenty-one percent know how the ages of 13 and 17 had a mar­many lawmakers are in the gin of error of plus or minus 4 Senate (100), the National percentage points. Constitution Center said It also found that: Wednesday. • Only 41 perecnt of American 
The group is building a muse­teen-agers can name the three um in Philadelphia designed to branches of government, but ]59 make Americans more familiar percent ean name tho Three with the Constitution. Stooges. 
There is some good news: • Seventy-four percent can 
Nearly 7 4 percent know that Al name the city whore cartoon Gore is vice president. But that's character Bart Simpson lives well below the 90 percent who (Springfield). but only I 2 percent know that Leonardo DiCaprio know where Abraham Lincoln was the male star of the movie lived (Springfield, Ill.). 
"Titanic." • Less than 2 percent recog­
Too few Americans have even nize James Madison as tiHl a basic working knowledge of father of the Constitution, while their government, especially the 58 percent know Bill Gates as 
Constitution, Philadelphia Mayor the father of Microsoft. Edward Rendell told a Senate • Nearly 95 percent can name Appropriations subcommittee. the actor who played the Fresh 
"I believe that building this Prince of Bel Air· (Will Smith) on museum and reversing this tide television, but only 2 pereont ran of ignorance is absolutely critical name the chief justice of the to the health of our democracy," Supreme Court !William said Hendell, who is chairman of Rehnquist). the center. • Twenty-five percent know at 
"The Constitution doesn't work least one of the constitutional by itself. It depends on active, rights the Fifth Amendment pro­informed citizens." tr.ets. Nnarly 64 porcfmt know Groundbreaking for the "expe­what "The Club" protects (a car). riential" museum is scheduled • About 90 percent can name for Constitution Day. Sept. 17, the star or thn television serins 2000. Rendell is asking Congress "Home Improvement'· (Tim 
to approve a $20 million contri­Allen). but less than 3:3 porcent bution toward the museum this can name thn speakflr of tiH~ year, and the cent1~r hopes tho House (Newt Gingrich). 
Pilots avert collision course over California 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 
Pilots of two commercial airliners on a collision course at 25,000 feet averted disas­ter by turning sharply at the last second -a situation cre­ated by what federal aviation officials called a lapse by a busy air traffic eontroller. 
No one was hurt in the inci­dent Monday, but the con­trollers union says it was a symptom of understaffing at the Los Angeles Air Houtc Traffic Control Center in Palmdale, which monitors 178,000 square miles of air­space over Southern California. 
"The flying public and the American people need to know that at Los Angeles Center, routinely, positions that are designed to be staffed by two controllers ­especially during busy times -are being staffed by just one controller," said llamid GhafTari, a spokesman for the National i\ir Traffic Controllers i\ssoeiation. 
Delta Airlines Flight 550, an L-1 0 I I, and /\Iaska i\irlirws Flight 257, an MD-80, were as close as 2 l/2 miles apart when an air traffic controller noticed tlw potential disaster Monday aftnrnoon. 
With a combined speed of' 1,000 mph, that means impact was just eight sec­onds away. Federal Aviation Administration rules call for 
planes to be five miles apart horizontally and I ,000 feet vertically, said FAA spokesman Mitch Barker in Seattle. 
The two planes were OV(~r the i\nza Borrego l>osert State Park in San Dingo County. 
The /\Iaska plane was head­ed to Los i\ngni(~S from Mexico and the Delta plarw from Los Angeles to Atlanta. Both planes were at 25,000 feet, and the Delta plane was rerouted south to avoid thun­derstorms -putting it doser to the /\Iaska plane. 
When the /\Iaska plane was handed over from the Mexiean air traffic enntor to the Los Angeles one, tlw air traf'fie contmller in l'almdaln requested the pilot pull up to 27,000 foet. 
Tho pilot was unable to get to that altitude, but the eon­troller was too busy and for­got to record it -which amounted "operational error," Barker said. 
When tlw eontroll!~r real­ized it, both planes worn orden~d to makn immediate 40-degree turns. 
Spok(~smnn for Delta and /\Iaska i\irlirws said tlwy WPrn unaware of' thn IH1ar miss and didn't know how many pnopln were on t.lw planes. Tho Dnlta plane ean earry around 400 people and tho /\Iaska i\irlinns plane about 140. 
G h a ITa r i said tlw Los Angeles Centnr has only 228 certified controllers dnspitn authorization for :~2:t 
~ ----------~-----------. 
page 8 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, September 3, 1998 

will lecture on 

------Six New American Realities-----­

Thursday, September 3, 7 p.m. Washington Hall 

Senator Bradley's address is the University's first Hanley Lecture on Values and Public Policy and the first of six public policy addresses to be delivered on campus this fall by the former Senator. 
" 
----~----~~-­
---~--~------~--------­
Thursday, September 3, 1998 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 
Movie: The Wedding Singer. 09/03. Thursday. Cushing Auditorium. 09/04. Friday. Cushing Auditorium. 09/05. Saturday. Cushing Auditorium. 
Acousticafe. 09/03. Thursday. Lafortune Huddle. 
HPC [HALL PRESIDENT§' COUNCIL} 
Dillon Hall Pep Rally. 09/03. Thursday. Dillon Hall. 
Gender Relations Week. 09/06-09/19. Sunday-Saturday. Everywhere. 
student union 




HAPPENINti§ 
1030PM. Tickets: $2. 0800PM & 1 030PM. 0800PM & 1 030PM. 
0900PM-1200AM. 
24/7. 

OMSA [OFFICE ot= MULTICULTURAL STUDENT AFFAIR§} 
OMSA First Friday. 09/04. Friday. Foster Room. LaFortune. 1200PM (noon). 
CLASS OF ~000 
Class Dinner. 09/09. Wednesday. Fieldhouse Mall. 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
Saferide. 631-9888. 09/03. Thursday. 09/04. Friday. 09/05. Saturday. 

STUDENT ACTIVITIES 
How to Plan a Party. 09/08. Tuesday. 
Vendor Fair. 09/08. Tuesday. 

Where the Action Is. Where the Action Is. Where the Action Is. 
Montgomery Theater. 

0530PM. 

1OOOPM-0200AM. 1OOOPM-0300AM. 1OOOPM-0300AM. 
0530PM. 

0700PM-0900PM. 
Can be used with invisible tape as tattoos. 

[Submissions for next week's tattoos can be sent via campus mail to SUB, 201 LaFortune] 
80000000088000000008800000000880000000088000000008800000000 

------~-~ -~-------~~----~--------------------------~---~--. 

IEWPOINT 
pageiO------------------------------------------------OTHE ------------------------------Wednesday, September 3, 1998
BSERYER 


THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Rc:imhaler Kyle Carlin 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Hc:arhcor MacKenzie: 

NEWS EDITOR ........................ Michelle Krupa ADVERTISING MANAGER ...............Kerry McPartlin VIEWPOINT EDITOR .................. Eduardo Llull AD DESIGN MANAGER ........................ Brerr Huelat SPORTS EDITOR.~~ -~~~~~-~~~·~-·Kathleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER.. .. ..... Michael Brouillet SCENE EDITORS..............~ ............ Sarah Dylag WEB ADMINISTRATOR ....•...•.•.•....Jennifer Breslow 
Krisci Klitsch CoNTROll.ER ........................ , ........... Dave Rogero SAINT MARY's EDITOR ... ~ ..M. Shannon Ryan PHOTO EDITOR ..........Kevin Dalum 
The Obse'rvcr is rhe independent newspaper published by the students of rhc University of Nom: Dame duLac and Saim Mary's College. h does nor necessarily reflect the policies of rhc adminimarion ofeither insrirmion. The news is reponed as accurately and obJccrivdy as pos..'iible. Unsigned editoria1s represent rhe opinion of rhe majoriry of rhe 
Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, Ar;siscam Managing Editor and depanmenr editors. Commenraries, leuers and columns pre$ent the views of the authors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Noue Dame/Saint Mary's communiry and to atl readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through lem:rs is encouraged. 
Contacting The Observer 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 63I-53I3 
Managing Editor/Assistant ME 631-454I Advertising 63 I -6900/8840 
News/Photo 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 
Sports 631 -4 543 Fax 631-6927 
Scene//Sainr Mary's 63 I -4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu 
D>y Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.cdu 
Office Manager/General Information 631-7471 News E-Mail observer.obsnews.] @nd.edu 
• THE WILD Cm.ONIAL Bov 

Drink with your family before you drive 
I began the last column I wrote raving about Spain, where I spent some time this summer tr.aching English. Well, I'm going to begin this column the same way. 
I don't want anyone getting the wrong imprr.ssion. I love America, and I'm 

Eduardo 
Llull 
proud to live here, but Spain is definitely ahead of us in a few areas. 
First of all they set aside a period of the day as nap time. For some reason we do away with this custom during childhood. Also, the food is exquisite, and the wine is great, oh, anti then there's the sangria. In Spain you can drink on the street and not bn harassed, they party until nine in the morning and-here's the best part -they have beer vending machines. What a great country! 
This brings me to the point of my col­umn. The attitude about drinking in Spain is much different. Kids can drink when they're 16, and most of them begin much earlier than that because their parents let them drink at home. 
It was a bit strange for me to be eating lunch with my students and have them bring a bottle of wine to the table for us to share. (It was even stranger to have them light up a cigarette after the meal -the smoking age in Spain is 14.) Just six months earlier I had turned of legal age in the States, and there I was in Spain teaching kids, many of whom were already legal to consume and buy alco­hol. 
They laugh at us when it comes to this 
• DooNESBURY 


MIHAT 
/ 


issue. We call ourselves the land of the free and yet some of our-laws are much more restrictive than those of other countries. 
According to our government we are adults when we turn 18, however we are adults that are forbidden to drink alcohol for three years after that. Good old Ronald Reagan felt so strongly about increasing the drinking age to 21 that he threatened to pull federal funds from each state that didn't comply. As we all know, they complied. 
Obviously our leaders are con­cerned with our alcohol abuse in this country, as they should be. The number of deaths from alcohol poison­ing and drunk driving acci­dents is appalling. What our leaders need to do instead is reex­amine the nature of our laws. 
In Spain they don't drive until18-until the thrill of legally drinking has worn off. In America we begin driving at an age when legal drinking is far in the future which makes driving to a remote area to get drunk fun. 
We can learn from other societies, and in this case, we need to take a lesson from the Spanish. We should receive all the responsibilities and rights (i.e. voting, driving, tobacco) of adulthood when we become adults at 18-all the rights and responsibilities with the exception of drinking. 
The Spanish believe that the pros and cons of drinking alcohol should be learned in the home under the supervi­sion of the parents-not when people leave home and have their first taste of freedom. Peo'ple wonder why there is a drinking problem on America's college campuses. 
I'm pretty sure that in Spain they don't do 16 shots on their 16th birthday, and I 
didn't once see a Spanish kid shotgun a beer. They don't understand how we Americans sometimes drink ourselves into the hospital or get into accidents because we're drunk. (In Spain they get into accidents because they're horrible drivers.) They don't bong beers or pass out at the bar. (Note: This is not a holier than thou lecture. Believe me, my hypocrisy has its limits.) 
Don't get me wrong. The Spanish are not exactly models of sobriety them­selves. I did see Spaniards get drunk, but 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
never out of control. 

The juxtaposition of these two societies and their approach to drinking leads one to believe that it may have a lot to do with the age factor. The reason Americans have problems with alcohol may be more complex than just this, but it is still worth considering. 
In my last column I discussed the importance of family structure. There are many things the government could do to 
siesta. 

Eduardo Llull is a senior history and philosophy major and the editor ofthe Viewpoint section. /Je believes that the second biggest baseball story this year will be when the Giants win the pennant. He can be reached by e-mail at Eduardo.F.Llull.l@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• 0UOTE Of THE DAY 

'The difference between 
Los Angeles and 

yogurt is that yogurt has 
real culture.' 

-Tom Taussik 
foster the strength of the family 
(i.e. protect life). Ilow about giv­ing the family a chance to instill virtues such as temperance in their children? Instead we spend good tax payers' money to police our alcohol consumption until, all of a sudden at 21, we're ready to drink. 
As I already conceded, there is more to the drinking problem in Amnrica than just the drinking age -take the stress factor for example. I also understand that such a change in culture could be dangerous. The Jloint is that it would be beneficial to take away the magic that surrounds getting drunk by making alcohol something that begins in the home. 
As far as the stress problem goes, I believe the Spanish once again have a solution for us-La 

Need to get something off your chest? E-mail us at 
Observer. Viewpoint. I @nd. edu. 
.---~-------~-------~-----­
VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, September 3, 1998------------------O THE 
BSERVER 
• lr:.TTHl TO THf: Eomm 

The virtue of listening is 
a fundamental 
ministry 
Listening is a virtue rather than an art, bnraus1~ it liPs in both tlw spiritual and the human; and as we listen. he or she is telling a little about tlwir lives as well as our own. 
Orw writer has observed that, "For nothing opens the human heart more than complete listening. taking the time to enter into the wor­ries. lorwlirwss and good news that are being put before us; a school of patience, but in the l'irst place, a school of s1~lf forgetfulness. TIH~ greatest good we can render for him or her, is not to giv1~ tiHHn what we have, but rather, to show tlwnr how much they have to give." 
Anotlwr writer sp1mks tellingly of the amount of ahus1~ and negligence that women and rhildrPn suiTPr. the numbnr of unhappy marriages or those that end in divorce, and tlw rlltmber of family feuds is suiTidPnt witness to the faet of a ~~ontinuing family aposto­late where family mmn­lmrs will have a loving and a patient listening to Pach otlwr''i iov'i 
sorrows, ups ari"d. 
tYV. 
;::;~~~i~~~;r~~:!~~~:~v-_.1~1~~ , .-:·/·\\' .)\' be our hrst ~ ' 11 . ;/ \\ 
area of con-' · 
e1~rn. V . 1 • I {'1
• 
The \ 
"'""'""d J < •)\ \~·\\I
' '1\
Falh"' ' ~ c\. 
~;if;f::~;:, --0 ~ \ [
1 \ 
book titled '"' ~ .. \ 
(1

"Focus Your ~ Day," a med-.t \ I 
itative ·"\, "' ,-.J'I
n~minder for • \ eaeh day of 
Llw y11ar pub-
u 
lished in papnr ~-~. · . ~ 
baek by tlw Ave Maria Press, Notrn Dame. Indiana, which is so helpful to me in bringing God, my neighbor and myself doser tognther as we pas!j each other on the way by being awake and attentive. 
Allow rnn to quote (with permission of thn author) the excerpt for the 26th of August titled, "Meaning What You Say," "Words spoken without meaning touch no one's lwart. n1~ither God's nor man's. Would such words be bnst unspoken'? 

"Wo sp!Htk meaninglessly whenever we speak mindlessly. Whenever we ask, '!low are you'?' without mindfulness or caring, we betray our lack of attention. And when we speak to anyone without attention, we show a lack of l1rvn. 
"Communication that touches the heart can be made only by those who are attentive to the persons they address, and who are mindful of what they say. 
"Lord, may I be awake and attentive to the way I communicate, and truly mean the words I speak." 
Organizers of work shops, seminars and/or study groups might consider including listen-, ing for discussion bncause of it's importancn (as I have indicated), in human relationships whether in families or whatever. 
May Lsuggest to preachers of the Word, a pastoral ministry of visiting and of listening to the lonely, tho elderly and the disabled and their needs. As President Kennedy once said, "We must make God's Work truly our own." Surely, one of God's finest attributes is "listen­ing," but wn must be attentive to llis soft, ten­der and whispering voice. 
As resource persons in the study of "listening," I seriously recom­mend bartenders, barbers and/or hair dressers for their long experience in "listening" to a variety of concerns ana' personaJiites, and whenever I think of these dedicated profession­als, I'm 
reminded of the Seventh 
Beatitude, 
"Blessed are the peace­maker, for they shall be 
called the children of God." 
In addi-
Lion, we must be 
patient with-ourselves, so that he or she 
will be at their ease and given ample room and time to expre~s themselves in their own time and harmo­ny. We must be willing to 


become vulnerable ourselves, so that they cease to be others and become like ourselves. 
When we are too busy (like two trains pass­ing eaeh other in the night whiz and they are gone), to take time off from our work and relax, may be the time when we need to "lis­ten" to our own needs and even better to "lis­ten" to the needs of others who pass us on the way. 
Brother Edward V. Courtney, C.S.C 
Columba Hall, Notre Dame 
August 31, 1998 

take appropriate action, such as voting a certain way. 
Even though one of the factors causing me to attend Notre Dame was the Catholic influence, I would not have come here if I thought the school operated in some type ofCatholic vacuum, 
The world.is full of varying opinions and it is my hope that a college education will expose me to as many view­points as possible rather than selectively filtering those that may contradict my personal beliefs. I feel it is my right to decide which views I shall adopt as my own and it is the University's obligation to protect that right through offering a myr­iad of choices. 
A university is a forum for unrestricted intellectual 
,exchange. It is time to stop lamenting over the imminent poisoning of our Catholic tradition by Senator Bradley. We must welcome him to our community and share with him what Notre Dame and the Catholic faith have to offer. Education is not a one way street. For all thP. fear that Bradley is going to affect attitudes at Notre Dame, is it not just as plaus1· ble to hope that Notre Dame can have the same effect on the senator? 
Brian Wolford Class of'O! September I, 1998 
page II 
mission to Notre Dame. Unless, he is lecturing on the teachings of the Catholic church, I'm not sure how or why this topic would even come up in the classroom. 
I don't know much about Bill Bradley, but I do know that he has been a sena­tor, a Rhodes Scholar and a two-time NBA champi· on. His insight into the making of American policy alone is enough to war­rant an invitation to le<~· ture here. He also repre­sents to our athletes what we hope for in them; one who oxcelled in sports as well as aeadcmics. 
lt's okay for a Catholic university to have stu­dents, faculty and staff who have differing opin­ions. I'm not sure what the Church's position on capital punishment is, but I don't see why that should prevent someone from teaching math or English or evim speak to the graduating dass. 
It would bn a disservice not to have had the oppor­tunity to heur, for exam· pie, Albert Einstein Iee­turc at Notre Dame if he thought it was okay for 11 woman to docide what she could do with her body. 
Jucain Butler 
Gmduate srudem 
September I. 1998 

6.,(·'\}l '\·::H:ff' 




W
alk another mile/Climb another hill/While tripping through the daisies/1 take another fall" sings Sean Kelly in an obvious reference to the band he 
fronts, The Samples. Known for a work ethic that other bands can only 
dream of. The Samples have been through pretty much everything in the last 10 years. They've seen bands that once opened for them (the Dave Matthews Band, for example) rise to national stardom, lost loved ones, left two different major record labels, and as of recently, witnessed themselves on the verge of breakup. In the spring of '97, drummer Jeep Nichols and keyboardist AI Laughlin amicably left the band, while singer/guitarist Sean Kelly and bassist Andy Sheldon were faced with yet another hill to climb. 
Instead of letting the departures be the final chapter of the band, Sheldon and Kelly decided to forge ahead and establish a new era in the band's rich history. After more than two years in the making, The Samples have released their first stu­dio album since the band's membership major shuffie. On Here and Somewhere Else, Sean Kelly and Andy Sheldon reflect back on their careers in The Samples while incorporating the new members' talents to the band's creative energy, result­ing in the most mature album put out by the band yet. 
The album opener, "We All Move On," immediately reminded this fan of the band's two earliest studio albums. Celebrating change and perseverance, the song's reggae-pop sound, characteristic of the band's early material, is actually attributed to the contributions of new keyboardist, Alex Matson. Matson's masterful touches help guide the song through its "ebb-and-flow" tempo, giving the song the same instant-gratification sound that blessed The Samples favorite "Did You Ever Look So 
Umphrey's McGee 
Greatest Hits Volume Ill 
Independent
**** (best out of five) 
he local music scene at Notre Dame has been described in many ways by those students craving good live tunes; most of these descriptions arc not 
,.

positive to say the least. Many students are increasingly pessimistic this year 
after the departure of the Skalcoholics, last year's battle of the bands win­ner. and the disbanding of the long standing Stomper Bob. Thankfully, there is hope in Umphrey's McGee. 
With the release of their first album entitlted Greatest flits Volume /II, Umphrey's McGee has put into a CD the exact feel-good vibes that have made them Notre Dame's fastest rising band since their inception in early 1998. The band formed as two members of Stomper Bob departed and joined with two members of a band called Tashi Station. The four hoped to pool their talents and common musical interests to form a band centered around "improvisation and a willingness to take the music in unforeseen directions." There definitely seem to be a lot of things going right for Umphrey's McGee; within the first months of playing, they opened up a stellar performance at the State Theatre in South Bend (unprecedented for such a young campus bancl). Soon after, the group headed into the studio for their first recording session which yielded the new CD, released at the end of the school year. 
Greatest flits Volume Ill contains many of the songs one might hear at one of their many local shows with each song emitting its own distinct feel. The album's lirst appeal is the title and cover artwork, all suggesting Umphrey's "Don't take us too 
The Samples 
Here And Somewhere Else 
W.A.R. Records 
*'*** (best out of five) 
Nice." 

The album reflects a change in the band's approach to songwriting. Instead of building a song around a groove, the tracks are laden with smart, elaborate arrangements and incredible production craftsmanship. Backed by a cello, Kelly's melodious piano piece, "Little People" sounds like a White Album era McCartney song. "Losing End of Distance" and "Going Through Changes" also demonstrate the orchestration and maturation of the band's music. 
As a bonus, the CD is enhanced with behind-the-scenes footage of the band recording Here and Somewhere Else which can be viewed on your computer. Following along the lines of the band's '94 home video, Ten Wheels, there are inter­views, lyrics (which explains why they weren't printed in the sleeve), and hilarious skits featuring the band. 
The Samples and their music have evolved over the years and Here and Somewhere Else is a fresh beginning for the band. I applaud The Samples for reestablishing themselves with this album. Even with all the challenges Kelly and Sheldon have faced in the last two years, they have released a album that reflects the ·loose nature that The Samples are known for, while at the same time, they have taken their songwriting to a more mature level. 
Emmett Malloy 

Photo courtesy of Joel Cummins 
seriously" attitude. When the music starts, it evokes a "let's get down to business" jam. The songs exhibit influences of jazz, funk, and rock while their mo~t evident musical counterpart seems to be the band Phish. Don't be eonfused though, Umphrey's McGee explores many different styles on this album. Many of the songs seemingly flow and float through dynamie and rythmic contrasts bringing about interesting mood shifts. To further suggest the feel of Umphrey's live sound, many of the songs continue for as long as fifteen minutes while most average about night. 
So though the rest of the Notre Dame music scene this year may not look promis­ing, there is a bright spot. With this solid new CD. Umphrey's McGee has establislwd themselves atop the scene. Four hundred CDs have already been sold. forcing more to be reordered. For information on purchasing one, eontaet their web page: www.nd.edu/-jroach/mcgec. Also look out for Umphrey's Mc(;ee this Saturday night at the Madison Street Oyster Rar. 
Dave Clark 

..C..r ;pTI~F~
'L-J' ~ J ­
,,_ '4;: 

Thursday, September 3, 1998 ---------------~OBSERVER ---------------------­
concert revi 



-
Feeling strangely popular 
Harvey Danger and Semisonic play at Springsteen's old hangout 


hn summnr tour of the band Semisonie could have been easily overlooked by 
musk fans in light of the major summer concerts ineluding the Tibetan .,
Fmmlom Fnstival. Pearl Jam and tho Davn Matthews Band. Whiln I was 
unablt) to snc any of the aformentioned big name acts. I was fortunate tmough to son snvnral small shows including the band Snmisonic bd'orc they began thnir sunm1nr tour with Matchbox 20 and Soul Asylum. Scmisonic, with opener llarvny l>angnr, appnarcd at the Stone Pony in Asbury Park, NJ. a intimate venue frnqunnted hy Bruce Springsteen in his glory days. The concert was nearly sold out, dtw in part to the constant radio play of Semisonic's "Closing Time" and Harvey Dangnr's "l'lagpole Sitta." Both bands proved that. there is morn to their music than tlwsn ovnrplaymt chart toppers. however. 
ltarvny Dangnr, one of the most recent products of the infamous Seattle music swnt~. is mado up of Aaron Huffman (bass). Jnff J. Lin (guitar), Sean Nnlson (vocals). and fo:van Suit (drums). Their debut album. "Where have all the merrymakers yone'!," mix11s pop and punk with a cynical edgn. Some of their more memorable lyrit~s includn: "Bonn around the world and found that only stupid people are breed­ing, tlw ~~rnt1t.ins cloning and fnmling" Tho highlights of thnir sot were "Carlotta Valdt~z." "Jack tho Lion," and of coursn "Flagpole Sitla." Although I did not eom­plntPly nnjoy thnir compact disc upon my lirst listen. the flnergy of their livn perfor­manrP PrH·.ouragPd me to give it another ehance. Harvey Danger's debut album is worth a listnn. hut it is oven more worthwhile to see them live if you have the opportunity. 
The Minneapolis based band Semisonic includes Dan Wilson (guit~r/lead vocals, John Munson (bass/vocals}. and Jacob Slichter (drums/vocals}. Their first album, "Grnat Divide" and their most recent offering "Feeling Strangely Fine" are great modern pop albums. Some music fans might doubt that there is more to Semisonic than their catchy single "Closing Time," but it is definitely worth listening to their albums. Semisonic's performance featured many of the great singles from "Great Divide" including "F.N.T" and "Down In Flames" and virtually all of their new album. The standouts were "Made To Last" in which lead singer Dan Wilson asked for the audience's help, and "Never You Mind" which was performed acoustic due to an equipment problem, "Completely Pleased" which was dedicated to the women in attendance, "Singing In My Sleep," and "DND." 
Ironically they did not close with "Closing Time." Aftnr the show I had the oppor­tunity to meet Dan. John, and Jacob. They were kind enough to chat with and sign autographs for their fans. They were pleasant andappreciative that their perfor­mance was well received. With this attitude and their musical talent Semisonir. will bn headlining larger venues and achiflving more musical success in no time. 
jennifer Zatorski 
will be performing at Finnegan's Tailgate Block Party this Friday night. Wayne Street will be entirely closed from 9:30 
P.M. until 2 A.M., so get out there. 
upcoming concerts in the area 
Cheap Trick BLESSED UNION OF SOULS Crystal Method Ziggy Marley Bob Mould Aero smith Freddy Jones Band Bootie &The Blowfish They Might Be Giants Lenny Kravitz Sunny Day Real Estate Mickey Hart Widespread Panic Reel Big Fish Sept. 3 SEPT. 12 Sept. 15 Sept. 16 Sept. 17 Sept. 21 Sept. 23 Oct. 2 Oct. 2-3 Oct. 6 Oct. 7 Oct. 13 Oct. 13 Oct.l4 
Drink (Chicago) O'LAUGHINLIN AUDITORIUM Murat Theatre (Indianapolis) Pieres (Fort Wayne) Riviera (Chicago) Deer Creek (Indianapolis) Mars Nightclub (Bloomington) House of Blues (Chicago) The Vic (Chicago) Murat Theatre (Indianapolis) Metro {Chicago) Riviera (Chicago) Riverfront Park (Peoria, IL) House of Blues (Chicago) 
-
Campus band·S······.·.·.·. ·:d@}· 
page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, September 3, 1998 
... 
-
• 

Cowboys plagued by preseason disorganization 
Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas 
The Dallas Cowboys felt Chan Gailey's influence imme­diately. All he had to do was hand over the new playbook, which is the size of a small­town phone directory. 
The former Pittsburgh offen­sive coordinator has installed an offense completely unfamil­iar to Troy Aikman, Emmitt Smith, Michael Irvin and the huge offensive line. 
So nobody is sure what kind of team to expect under the new coach when the Cowboys open the regular season Sept. 6 at home against the Arizona Cardinals. Except for a two­touchdown fling in the first half of an exhibition game against St. Louis, Dallas has looked disorganized. 
"We just need to get confi­dence in what we are doing and we keep getting a little better every day," Aikman said. "Also, I'm saying my prayers at night." 
Gailey, who replaced Barry 

Switzer, is noted for his inno­vations. As a coach at Troy State he w.on the NCAA small college championship by run­ning a 'no-huddle wishbone. 
The Cowboys worked on everything from a five-receiver set to putting wideout Irvin in the backfield during training camp, but rarely have shown such formations in the presea­son. 
Aikman has had good and bad moments operating out of the shotgun for the first time in his career. 
"I've never objected to the shotgun," he said. "I just always thought we did pretty well in the offense we were running. There are some good things about the shotgun. It gives you a little more time to read the defense. The bad things include a bad snap. " 
Smith has shown flashes that he may be ready for a big sea­son. He rushed forllO yards in the first half against St. Louis and looked like the Emmitt of old, not the old Emmitt he resembled a year ago. 
"Maybe everyone can quit asking coach Gailey who is going to start at running back," said Smith, who has been battling criticism he is too beat up and old to remain an impact player. Former Seattle Seahawk Chris Warren was picked up as insurance. 
Smith will be asked to read and react under Gailey's sys­tem instead of bursting through a hole like he did under Jimmy Johnson and Switzer. The offensive linemen will be blocking in a zone area and not taking on a specific defender. 
"It's definitely different," said Smith, who has rushed for more than 1,000 yards for seven straight seasons. ''I'm having to read my blocks and then make cuts. It will take time to get a feel for it." 
A second starting receiver opposite Irvin must be found and it could be Billy Davis, who caught a touchdown pass against the Rams and has been running ahead of Ernie Mills, who played for Gailey in 

Pittsburgh. Irvin said he likes the new offense. 
"We're getting it down a lit­tle bit at a time," he said. "Anyone who thought we would grasp this offense from the start was doing a little wishful thinking. But it will come. 
"The man was hired to fix mistakes, particularly mental mistakes, and that's what he's doing," Irvin said of Gailey. 
The offensive line was in shambles last year, with injuries to Mark Tuinei, now retired, and Nate Newton. The switch of right guard Larry Allen to left tackle paid off, though, and Newton came back 50 pounds lighter this season. Undersized center Clay Shiver has beefed up. Right guard Everett Mciver was picked up as a free agent from Miami. His biggest contribu­tion was keeping Dailas in the news when he got cut on the neck with scissors while roughhousing with Irvin. 
Mciver missed several weeks of practiee while rumors llew there was a payoff to keep him quiet so Irvin's probation for cocaine possession wouldn't be revoked. Investigations by the NFL and the Dallas County probation office concluded it was just "horseplay." 
Owner Jerry Jones isn't tak­ing any more chances, ban­ning alcohol on all team flights this season. 
Defensively, injuries during the preseason cut into what depth there was on a team that was second in the NPL last year, but 20th against the t:un. LinebacktH Broderick Thomas and lineman Darren Benson had season-ending knee injuries. Cornerback Dcion Sanders and lineman Leon Lett missed most of the preseason with injuries, but were expected back against the Cardinals. 
"We have a chance to have a very good defense," coordina­tor Dave Campo said. "Having Leon back will be a big help to both stopping the run and get­ting a pass rush." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
Classifieds sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES  Babysitter needed for 2 young children T and Th 3:30-5:30pm  FTBL WKNDS-Cute 3bed/2bath,sleeps 4-6, ?min dr,lnclds brkfst.For more info call  I NEED MICH. TIX! will trade 2 Navy GA's Please call Gina x1825  2 MICH GAs x1652  on Thursday 9/10. SPRING BREAK-PLAN NOW!  
5 min from ND.Must have own  233-3410  NEED MICH TICKETS  Cancun,Jamaica,Mazatlan,&  
GO IRISH!!!  trans. 288-2136  Need 2 MICH GA's  Looking to trade or buy  S.Padre.Early bird savings until  
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  Erin 634-1 006  Have LSU,Army,Stanford,  Oct. 31 st.America's best prices and  
SPEND ALL THAT SUMMER  Babysitter needed for 2  ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE  and MSU  packages.Campus sales reps want­ 
...-·_  CASH ALREADY?? South Dining Hall Food Market has employment  young children (Mishawaka) .Various hours. Must  TO CAMPUS. 243-0658.  3 MICHIGAN GA'S 4 SALE X2096  call Andy @251-0001 ·  ed.Earn free trips+ cash. 1.800.SURFS.UP  
opportunities.  have own transportation. 254-9706  FLYNN ND/SMC B&B  Alums Need Michigan Tix  www.studentexpress.com  
Private home, tO mins from cam­ MICH. GA FOR SALE  773-529-8421  
We offer competitive wages, pay  The Office for Students with  pus. 3 lovely rooms,one  GREG 232-1308  
increases for returning students,  Disabilities is looking for male stu­ bath.Perfect for families or couples  
flexible schedules and work incen­ dents interested in the following  traveling together.Available foot­ 3 MICH GA'S FOR SALE.  MICHIGAN! 2 GAs 4 Sale!  SABOR LATINO  
tives.  positions:  ball,grad. parents' wkends. $75­ 4-2098 OR 4-2094  243-1626 leave offer  
95/nt. Call Alice (219)282-2241.  CD release party!  
Stop by South Dining Hall or call 1­6147 for more information.  STUDENT ASSISTANT:This per­son will help a Notre Dame student  BED AND BREAKFAST, FOOT­ HAVE 4 MICH GA'S, 30YDLN.  Always buying and selling ND foot­ball tickets.289-8048  Thursday 9/3, 10:30 pm  
with a physical disability travel to  BALL WEEKENDS,NEAR CAM­ MUST GET RID OF THEM! CALL  Club Landing  
WANTED  events on campus. Evening hours,approximately 8-10 hours a  PUS. 219-277-6832.  X-1231  CAN WE TALK?  (dance lessons at 8:30)  
week.$8.00 per hour.  2 MICH GAs TIXS 4 SALE  I need just one (1) ticket for ND-MI  SABOR LATINO  
Sports Officials Wanted  BED AND BREAKFAST, FOOT­ 287-3915 best offer  game. Just found out a friend from  
for Flag Football, Baseball, and  STUDENT AIDE:This aide will  BALL WEEKENDS,NEAR CAM­ Lithuania will be here and would  
Soccer. Good pay,Fiexible hours and we will train for each sport.  assist a Notre Dame student with a physical disability with dressing and  PUS. 219-277-6832.  I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306  love to see a game. Please call Shirley at  SBC, I just wanted to wish you a happy birthday! I love you more  
Apply in person at Rolfs Sports  moderate personal care. Morning  1-7471 before 3 pm.  than you will ever know-even if it  
Activity  and evening hours approximately 8­ Furnished room.  TICKETMART Inc  Thank you.  must be from afar right now! All my  
Center or call631-5100.  10 hours a week.$10.00 per hour.  Very close to campus.  BUY-SELL-TRADE  love, sweets, HHB.  
Water incl.  Notre Dame Football Tickets  2 Mich GAs to sell!  
Ask for DeMond Thomas or  Training will be provided. Please call  $200/month. Sept. paid.  258-1111  Bill, eve. 271-7819  Porter-thanks for the road signs  
Jeff Walker.  the Office for Students with  Must rent imm.  No student tickets please  and everything else too  
Disabilities at 631-7157.  273-9795. Call Ron or Matt for  Needed: tix to Michigan State. Will  -Schaffer  
appt.  FOR SALE  trade tix or a room for one home  
FOOTBALL TICKETS  game or pay '<ash. Call Tony at 4­ 
ND profs seek mature. loving  Reliable students needed to care  271-9412  1088.  my two dead mules, ireland will  
babysitter for great 15 month old  for 2-8 children in church nursery 1  For Sale  never be the porch -love michelle  
girl. Flexible hrs, great pay. 234­ or 2 Thursdays a month 8:45am­ WANTED  
2241,631-7762,631-7138.  11 :30am.$5/hr.  198 MINUTE PHONE CARDS­ ND FOOTBALL TICKETS  NEED 1 MICH TIX for my twin sis­ TWO MORE SPOTS! Fall  
References desired. Driver  $20. CALL 243-0658.  271-1526  ter-DESPARATE  Break in Washington, DC.  
preferred, but transport avail­ will pay or trade contact  October 17-23. A great  
able. Sunnyside Presbyterian,  '94 Geo Prizm  ND Ftbl. tix  COURTNEY@ 288-1423  opportunity to see our nation's  
EARLY CHILDHOOD  115 S. Frances. Call Ann 289-3759  4dr Sspd stereo 60k mi  BUY-SELL  Capital. Sponsored and  
DEVELOPMENT CENTER­ or Christine 287-4296.  clean sharp & faithful $7200  674-7645  1 converted Mich. GA  conducted by Saint Mary's  
NOTRE DAME  237-0608  section 31 call Dan @ 634-0951  College Professor Claude  
The Early Childhood Development  Part-time nanny needed for  ND Footbaii-Buy-Seii.Seasonal and  Renshaw. For details, call  
- Center at Noter Dame,located at  one-and-a-half year old boy,  Macintosh Powerbook (laptop) -42  Individual Game Tickets. GA-only  One or Two tickets wanted-for  284-4750.  
18680 Bulla Road,is currently  flexible hours. good pay, phone 631  Meg RAM, 2 gig hard drive-two  674-7645  Michigan Game. Top$$$. Please  
accepting applications from college  5181  months old  call 914-238-8051.  SBL and Kt and Keldeen, when y'all  
students for part time positions. The  $1,750-OBO  Anyone who won Mich St away  gonna start cyclin'n together again?  
hours are 11:30 a.m.-1:05 p.m.  . 234-674r before 9:30p.m.  game tickets and is looking to sell,  WANTED: 2 student tickets ND vs .  
MWF and/or TTH. If you are inter­ested in applying, please contact  FOR RENT  94 VW Golf, runs  call BRIAN at 243-2623.  Michigan. Call Claire x2758.  What does one wear to a white trash party?  
Thayer Kramer at 631-3344 for  great,4dr,auto,AIC, $7250obo.  ND Football Tickets Needed.  
more information and an applica­ 1 ,2,3,4,5 BDRM HOMES. NEAR  Frank@ 631-3250day/287 -5259nite  AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726  Needed:Two BC tickets .Willing to  I love Reinthaler.  
tion.  CAMPUS. AVAIL NOW  buy OR trade EITHER two Purdue  
GILLIS PROPERTIES.272-6551  AMERICARD PREPAID PHONE  FOR SALE. 2 Michigan GA's.Best  or two Stanford tix.  Deboy  
CARDS  Offer. 634-3193. Ask for Kim  Call 617-248-7046  Meet me in 104 COBA. baby.  
HTML EXPERT WANTED  6 BDRM HOME. NEAR CAMPUS.  $10-97min.  
Fast-paced Internet design and management team needs a person  FURN. $175. PER PERSON.272­6551  $20 -198 min. Call 258-4805.  WANTED: 1 Student Ticket for Notre Dame vs. Michigan.  PERSONAL  I thought that once I became an editor that I would never be here  
skilled in HTML.Candidates must  Call Michael at 4-3236.  this late. What a nightmare!!!  
have an advanced knowledge of  That Pretty Place, Bed and  1987 Saab 900  For your FREE W.W.J.D. bracelet.  
HTML 3.2,including (but not limited  Breakfast Inn has space availabl.e  5 speed, 1 owner, Good Condition.  Need 4 tickets for ND/U-M game.  call 631-6385.  Jump right into my nightmare, the  
to) tables,form design,server-side  for football/parent wknds.S Rooms  $3000 OBO. Call288-1380 in  Call 248-647-6657  water is warm!!!  
includes,style sheets and browser­ with private baths,$80­ evenings.  anytime.  Relive the memories!! Classic Irish  
specific differences in HTML imple­ $115,Middlebury,30 miles from  Games from 1970s and 80s on  Some people came up big tonight  
mentation.Strong preference will be  campus.Toll Road,Exit #1 07,1-800­ 89 Ford Probe GL $3300  Need 7 Ml Tix!!  VHS Video. Complete network  and some didn't. You all know who  
given to candidates who are not  418-9487.  Steinway Piano $500  Call Michele@ x1553  broadcasts, most of excellent quali­ you are!!  
dependent on HTML generation  Yamaha Trombone $250  ty. Call Tom 410-309-0395;  
tools and are able to produce com­ BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  Guitar with Amp $150  ND FOOTBALL TIX  Email:danyluk@erols.com  Where is the wax, the tape and the  
plex HTML by hand.Skills in inter­ fine home within 10 miles of  Accordion $50  FOR SALE  whip cream?  
face design, image design and com­ ND/SMC 219-291-7153  237-0695  AM 232-2378  $6 HAIRCUTS  Mac?  
pression for Web use, and  PM 288-2726  
JavaScript are valuable.Salary plus benefits.Contact Coy Jankowski at  Close to campus. Clean, 2 bdrm. Stove,refrigerator,security  TICKETS  NO-MICHIGAN TIX  VITO'S BARBERSHOP Closed All Day Sun and Wed.  Thank God for Daily!! He is my saviour.  
JGSulliven,219.234.2211 ,or submit  system. $450/month.$300 deposit. I  1 00 Level (2)  Open Daily 8-4, Sat 8-3.  
a resume to  yr lease.801 Corby.Pager 679­ I NEED 1 MICH. GA  Call312-946-3723  233-4767  Daily meet me in 103 COBA, baby.  
Resumes@JGSullivan.com  87 48. Please leave #.  Please call Bill at x4986  Best offer  
Leave Message  CLOSED LABOR DAY, 9/8 & 9/9.  
Will reopen  

. ~--~~ ~-~----~ 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, September 3, 1998 
CAMPUS MINISTRY® 
-
Calendar of Events 
NDE #52 (October 9-11) Sign Up 
Monday-Friday, August 31-September 4 103 Hesburg Library 
Rejoice! Black Catholic Mass 
Sunday, September 6, 4:00 pm Sorin Hall Chapel 
Spanish Mass 
Sunday, September 6, 1:30pm Keough Hall Chapel 

Rite of Christian Initiation for Adults (RCIA­becoming Catholic) Information Session for Candidates and Sponsors 
Sunday, September 6, 12:30 pm Notre Dame Room/LaFortune 
Conformation 
Tuesday, September 8 Siegfried Hall 
7:00 pm for Candidates 
8:00 pm for Sponsors 
Emmaus 
Information: Tami Schmitz at 631-!;5242 Small faith sharing community 
Notre Dame Celebration Choir 
Rehersals: Wednesdays, 8:00-9:30 pm Earth Sciences Building, Room 102 The newest choir on campus, offers a spiri­tual, diverse musical alternative to those who would like to participate in the music ministry at Notre Dame, drawing from a rich variety of contemporary, folk, gospel, Taize prayer and traditional sacred music. For details, contact Karen Schneider-Kirner, 
1-9326 
Twenty-Third Sunday in 
Ordinary Time 
Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica Saturday, September 5 
30 minutes after the game Rev. Randall C. Rentner, C.S.C. 
Stepan Center 
45 minutes after the game Rev. William A. Wack, C.S.C. 
Sunday, September 6 
8:00a.m. Rev. Carl F. Ebey, C.S.C 
10:00 a.m. Most Rev. John M. D'Arcy 
11:45 a.m. Most Rev. Alexander J. Brunett 
Vespers 
Sunday, September 6 
7:15p.m. Rev. David J. Scheidler, C.S.C. 
Scripture Readings 
1st Reading  Wisdom 9:13-18b  
2nd Reading  Philemon 9:10,12-17  
Gospel  Luke 14:25-33  


Are You Thinking About Becoming Catholic?... Or More Catholic? 
Jim Lies, C.S.C. 
Let me start by saying simply that I know you could blow off this column like you do so much of what you find here in the Observer. But let me say, just this once, as self-righteously as I can, I would not if I were you. And don't read it for me. Read it for your­selves and for your friends. Read it because you know, somewhere deep down inside of you, that there has got to be something more to life than the sports page or the Dining Hall menu. Trust me, this stuff matters. 
What does it mean to be Catholic? There is probably a differ­ent answer for every one who attempts to tackle the question. Some are convinced there is no wrong answer, others that there is only one answer, and still others who would simply choose not to take up the question at all. This column is for those of you daring enough to take up the question, and bold enough to grapple with the answer. 
The opportunity for those of you who are not Catholic to explore the possibility of becoming Catholic is provided for you in a program called the' Rite of Christian Initiation of Adults (RCIA). It is a program, offered in Catholic parishes throughout the country and the world. For our purposes, at Notre Dame, RCIA is offered through the Office of Campus Ministry. It is offered for those who are not baptized who wish to become Catholic and for those who are baptized in another Christian tradition but wish to enter into Full Communion with the Catholic Church. 
While some might argue that there are no degrees to Catholicism, asserting that one is either Catholic or not, the RCIA program offers Catholics the opportunity, as sponsors, to deepen in faith by sharing the journey of those in the RCIA program. The RCIA program offers sponsors the opportunity to share their faith, to ask their own questions and to learn from others along the way. Let's face it, we could all use a refresher course in our own faith. There is no better way to dialogue about faith, no greater opportuni­ty to deepen in it and share it, than through the RCIA program. The RCIA team, along with the sponsors and those inquiring about the Catholic Church form a remarkable community of faith, providing challenge and insight for one another. 
Finally, for those of you Catholics out there who have yet to be confirmed, (and I know you're out there!), Campus Ministry offers preparation for the Sacrament of Confirmation as well. This program affords one the opportunity to journey with others, both sponsors and those seeking Confirmation, in exploring questions of faith and life. It is a rare opportunity to gather with persons of your own age in conversation about the things that matter most to us. 
Hey, you readers out there, this opportunity, for both RCIA and Confirmation comes along only once a year. That which these programs propose to do for those who would enter in, either as can­didates or sponsors, is too important to brush off with lame excuses like, "I don't have time," or "I'll do it next year." Listen, there is no better time to be about the most important business of life. It seems to me that we don't have the time not to! Please, please, take up the question. Join with us on the journey. The details regarding the respective information sessions for both RCIA and Confirmation can be found on the left side of this page. If you have further questions, regarding RCIA call Tami Schmitz or Frank Santoni at 1-5242; and regarding Confirmation, call Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. or Katie Pytlak at 1-5242. 
For those of you who have long wanted to, join with us. For those of you who are just beginning to entertain becoming Catholic, check this out. We may all be in different places on the spiritual journey, but none of us are going to get anywhere unless we take the next step. Journey with us. 
CJ 
a 
~ 
~ 
~ 
b 
tlJ 
~ ~ 
~ 
a ~ 
~ 
~ 
• • • 


(Z\MPUSMINISTRY 
page 16 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, September 3, 1998 
•

Sosa drives 'em home, Cubs drive for the wildcard 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
Sammy Sosa played catchup· but couldn't overtake.Mark McGwire in the home run race. Still. the Chicago Cubs kept winning. 
Sosa hit his 56th homer to tie Hack Wilson's 68-year-old club record and Gary Gaetti hit a two-run homer Wednesday in the eighth inning to send Chicago to a 4­2 victory over the Cincinnati Heds. 
Wilson set what had been the NL record with 56 homers in 1930 before McGwire con­nected twice Tuesday and twice last night against Florida to give him 59. 
McGwire and the Cardinals played again in Miami on Wednesday night. 
Sosa, leading off the bottom of the sixth, hit an 0-1 pitch from Cincinnati's Jason Bere into the first row of the right field bleachers. 
Sosa had gone eight at-bats without a homer prior to con­necting. 
Sosa's homer gave the Cubs a 1-0 lead and charged the crowd. Fans chanted for a curtain call and as usual he gave them what they wanted. 
The homer was Sosa's 15th to right field this season. 
With runners on first and second and two outs in the seventh, Sosa flied out to left against John Hudek to com­plete a 2-for-4 day that also included a ground out and a bad-hop single. 
The Cubs, 16 games over .500 for the first time since 1989, began the day one game ahead of the Mets for the NL wild card. They swept the three-game series, all come-from-behind wins. Glenallen Hill singled with one out in the eighth off Gabe White (5-5) and then Gaetti hit a 3-0 pitch into the left­
1
the Cubs on Aug. 19. One out later, Scott Servais hit his • 
seventh homer to give the Cubs a two-run cushion. 
Felix Heredia (2-3), who gave up a two-run double to Dmitri Young that put the Reds ahead 2-1 in the top of the eighth, got the win. Rod Beck pitched the ninth for his 42nd save. 

Jason Be r e , the forme r ' 
White Sox pitcher, gave up ' one run and five hits in six innings in his return to , 
Chicago.Chicago's Steve Trachsel allowed just four hits in seven ' 

shutout innings. 
The Heds went ahead in the eighth when Eddie Taubensee's leadoff fly ball went off Brant Brown's glove for a double. With one out, Matt Karchner struck out 
Heggie Sanders walked Barry Larkin before Young drove a Heredia pitch to right center to make it 2-1. 
Giants 12. Expos 3 
Barry Bonds hit his fourth home run in four games and Jeff Kent had two doubles and four RB!s as the San Francisco Giants beat the Montreal Expos 12­3 Wednesday. 
Bonds' 32nd home run of the season, a three-run shot into the upper-deck in right field off reliever Shayne Bennett made it 12-2 in the fifth inning. Bonds, who went 3-for-3 also had an RBI single in the second inning. 
Kirk Rueter (14-9) gave up two runs and five hits in 5 1-3 innings 
LASALLE BOOKSTORE 
Your source for the best in theological and philosophical books-we can special order any book you need! 
Fall Semester Sale! 
20% OFF ALL' BOOKS SEPTEMBER 1-4 -· 
\ 

THE lASALLE BOOKSTORE 
234-0003 • lasalle@michiana.org 237 N. Michigan St., downtown So. Bend (at LaSalle) Open I 0-5, Monday -Friday, parking due south 
and 

to pick up the win, keeping the Giants two games behind Chicago in the NL wild-eard race. 
The Giants took a 4-0 lead in the first off Javier Vazquez (4-14). on two-run doubles by Kent and J.T. Snow. 
The Expos scored two runs in the second on an RBI single by Brad Fullmer an RBI dou­ble by Terry Jones. 
Bonds' I{BI single in the second made it 5-2 and knocked out Vazquez, who allowed six hits and five runs in 1 2-3 innings. 
Rey Sanchez's hit a run­scoring double in the third and Kent had his second two-
field bleachers for his 14th .,.....,....,...,...,..~mo::o:rrlr'l11'11'111'11"l~IF.'ffil homer and third since joining ~P,.~D..;~D..;ID,;~~:t..e:lii.JCII.JC-...r:~ 
./ Used. rare and 
out-<:lf-print books Initial cost of $2.00 Nationally -circulated ad Success rate of 50% Time required: 2 months 
ERASMUS BOOKS Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday ' 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 l21 9 ) 232-8444 
run double in the fourth off Kirk Bullinger to make it 6-2. Kent, who won the NL's Player of the Month in August, has 17 home runs and 52 HB!s in his last 38 games. 
Marvin Benard's HBI double 

Orioles' worst si11ce they lost 21 straight to open the 19RS season. Baltimore, which suf­fered through its first 0-6 homestand sinen April of that same season, fell below .500 for the first time since July 26. 
series 9-2, outscoring Baltimore 76-4(~. 
Orioles starter Sidney l'onson allowed only one hit through five innings. but after he ldt in the sixth with a blis­tm on his right middle finger Ch i cago p r o m p t Iy s co r () d 
b H...,."
American League Base a ·~~~~·· 
~c .. 
Eastern Division NY Yankees Boston Toronto Baltimore Tampa Bay Central Division Cleveland Kansas City Chicago White Sox Minnesota Detroit Western Division Anaheim Texas Seattle Oakland 

w L PCT GB Home Away DIV 99 37 .727 ---53-13 46-24 22-8 80 56 .588 19 42-24 38-32 15-14 72 66 .521 28 41-28 31-38 17-19 69 69 .500 31 37-33 32-36 16-18 53 84 .386 46.5 27-44 26-40 12-23 WL PCT GB Home Away DIV 76 61 .554 ---39-31 37-30 20-12 64 74 .463 12.5 24-43 40-31 18-18 63 75 .456 13.5 36-34 27-41 16-20 61 76 .445 15 30-37 31-39 15-16 53 85 .384 23.5 27-42 26-43 15-18 WL PCT GB Home Away DIV 76 63 .546 ---37-33 39-30 15-9 73 65 .528 2.5 41-29 32-36 12-12 
63 74 .459 12 35-33 63 76 .453 13 35-35 
and Bonds' three-run homer in the fifth completed the onslaught. 
Mike Mordecai led off the ninth with a home run off Alvin Morman to close the scoring. 
White Sox 3, Orioles 2 
Rookie John Snyder pitched seven innings of thrPe-hit ball as the Chicago White Sox beat Baltimore 3-2 on Wednesday night, extending the Orioles' losing streak to a season-high 10 games. 
The 1 0-game skid is the 

It's only the sixth time in franchise history the Orioles have lost 10 or more in a row. 
Snyder (5-2) struck out one and walked one as Chicago registered its second three­game sweep of the Orioles in a nine-day span -the first in Baltimore since June 1996. 
Carlos Castillo pitched the eighth, and Bob Howry got three outs for his fourth save. 
Albert Belle drovP in his 126th run and walked twice for the White Sox, whose four-game winning streak matches their season high. 
Chicago won the season 
28-41  8-16  
28-41  13-11  
The Ohscrvcr/JocMueller  

twice to take a 3-2 !Pad. 
Hay Durham hit a one-out triple but was cut down at the plate trying to score on a grounder to !:ihort by Mike Caruso. 
Ponson left with a 1-1 count on Frank Thomas, who hit the l'irst piteh from Alan Mills (1­
4) into the left-field corner for an HBI double. After an inten­tional walk to Belle, Hobin 
Ventura singled in the go­ahead run. Ventura, who eame into the ·game in an 0-for-12 slump, went 2-for-3 with a walk. 
Fall Break Seminars October 18-23, 1998 Experiential/Service Learning Center for Social Concerns 
APPALACHIA SEMINAR -Service Learning at one of 15 --One credit Theology --Information meeting: 
Tuesday, September. 8, 7:30-8:00 PM 
CULTURAL DIVERSITY SEMINAR -Explore the cultural richness of Chicago --Examine issues of diversity and related concerns -One-credit Theology or Sociology --Cosponsored with Multicultural Student Affairs --Information meeting: Tuesday, Sept. 8, 4: 15-4:45 PM 
WASHINGTON SEMINAR 
Violence and Nonviolence in American Life 
--Direct contact with political, agency, and 
Church leaders in Washington, D.C. --Service and political awareness opportunities -One-credit Theology or Government --Information meeting: Tuesday, September 8, 7:00-7:30 PM 



CHILDREN & POVERTY SEMINAR --New seminar examining key children's concerns -Focus on direct service and policy initiatives --Site: Boston or New York --Information meetin s: Se t. 2nd, 4:15PM & Se t. 8th, 6:30PM 
em 
C E NT E A f 0 A
Applications Available Now at the CSC 
SOCIAL 
Ap lications Due: Thurs., Sept. I 0, 1998 CONCERNS 
Thursday, September 3, 1998 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
-


------~ 
page 18 Thursday, September 3, 1998
The Observer • SPORTS 
Soccer 
continued from page 24 
In the second period, the crowd went wild as Saint Mary's Cernanec approached the Illinois-Wesleyan goal, then quieted as the Titan keeper blocked the shot. 
Coach Robert Sharp called Wagner, Kate Barger and Laura Paulen, among others, the strongest players of the afternoon. 
A young team, Saint Mary's has not yet had time to fully gel. Fifty percent of its players arc freshmen with no college playing experience. 
Kristin Prijanc, a freshman midfielder, said, "We know there's a lot of potential on the team to make this the best Belle season so far." 
Please recycle The Observer 
MATUBA 
~ Japanese Restaurant ."' 
Authentic, Healthy Delicious. The Artistry of Japanese Cuisine You're very special to Matuba. We would like to invite you to try our finest authentic Japanese cuisine, served in our din­ing room and sushi bar-taste our shrimp ten:­pur, teriyaki steak, teriyaki salmon, teriyakl. chicken, sushi, sashimi and vegetable sush1 or many other traditional J'!fl_anese dishes. 
L.urllSpecB-50.95 rkre'~-$14$ 
1 -Beef Negimaki 1 -Teriyaki Chicken 2 -Egg Rolls 1 -Tuna Sushi 2 -Fried Rice 1 -White Fish Sushi 4 pc-California Rolls 1 -Salmon Sushi 4 pc -Cucumber Rolls 4 pc -Calrtomia Rolls 
1 -Miso Soup B pc -Tuna Rolls 
1 -Salad 1 -Steam Rice 
plus Japanese 1 -Miso Soup 
Green Tea 1 -Salad 
May change weekly plus Japanese
Green Tea Lunch Dinner Sushi(13 pieces) $6.95 $8.95 Sushi (14 pieces $7.95 
$11.95 Sushi veg. chicl<en (12 p::) $8.95 
$8.95 Sushinorawfish(13p::) $12.95 $12.95 Sushi (16 pieces) $12.95 
$12.95 Sushi Deluxe (21 pieces) $16.95 $16.95 Sushi &Sashimi combo $18.95 
$18.95 plus Mise Soup 
Lunch: 11-2 Mon-Sat Dinner: 5-9 Mon-Thurs,S-1 0 Fri-Sat 251-0674 Fish-Beef-Chicken 2930 E. McKinle_y_Ave. South Bend IN 
• U.S. OPEN 

-
Open serves up early action 
Associated Press 
Monica Seles no longer wears her father's ring on a chain around her neck, and her all-black outfit was replaced by white on a hazy summer afternoon at the U.S. Open. 
Though she still mourns, Soles has stopped treating tennis as a catharsis as she deals with her father's death. It is back to being simply a game, albeit a game at which she once was the best in the world. 
It was an easy game for her Wednesday, as the sixth-seeded Seles reached the third round with a 6-2, 6-3 win over Joannette Kruger. 
Seles was on an emotion­al roller-coaster when she reached the French Open final in June, less than a month after being at her father's side when he died May 14. She wore his ring on a necklace, and said playing was her solace amid sadness. 
"I think it was different (in Paris) because it was so soon after my dad's death and because I had so many raw emotions," she said Wednesday. "Now I defi­nitely step on the court and think more about the ball." 
Seles' coach, Gavin Hopper, said she's no longer relying on tennis to forget about her troubles. 
"I think that's past," Hopper said. "She's putting a lot of things behind her and a lot of her energy's going back into pure per­fection, and we're still a way off that. Once the first couple of months are gone, now we're into the day-to­day grind of getting bet­ter." 
While Seles is back to focusing on tennis, Petr Korda had his mind else­where as he lost his first­round match to qualifier Bernd Karbacher, ranked No. 155 in the world. 
The fourth-seeded Korda, 
whose wife had their sec­
ond daughter in late July 
but has been home only 
five days since the birth, 
lost 2-6, 6-3, 6-2, 6-1 and 
said he was mentally 
exhausted. 

"I need to leave the game of tennis for a while and spend some time with the family," said Korda, who won the Australian Open this year for his first Grand Slam title. 
Top-seeded Pete Sampras, seeking to tie Roy Emerson's record of 12 Grand Slam singles titles, and women's No. 1 seed Martina Hingis had match­es wiped out Wednesday night by torrential rain and strong wind. Their second­round matches were rescheduled for Thursday afternoon. 
Men's No. 2 Marcelo Rios and No. 11 Yevgeny Kafelnikov reached the sec­ond round with straight­sets victories. 
Steffi Graf. a five-time 
U.S. Open winner who missed the tournament last year while recovering from knee surgery, needed only 41 minutes to win her sec­ond-round match and move within two victories of sur.­passing Martina Navratilova as the women's career leader in prize money. 
Other women joining 
Seles and the eighth-seeded 
Graf in the third round 
were No. 3 Jana Novotna, 
No. 9 Irina Spirlea, No. 11 
Patty Schnyder, No. 14 
Dominique Van Roost and 
Serena Williams, who did 
not seem bothered by a 
heavily bandaged right 
thigh in a 6-2, 6-1 victory 
over a qualifier. 
No. 16 Ai Sugiyama 
became the first seeded 
woman to exit the tourna­
ment, withdrawing midway 
through the opening set of 
her match Wednesday with 
a sprained left ankle. 
Spirlea and Williams will 
meet in the third round. 
Last year acthe U.S. Open, 
Spirlea collided with Venus 
Williams, Serena's older 
sister, during a changeover 
in their match. 
That led Richard Williams, the father of Venus and Serena, to call Spirlea a "big, tall, white turkey" and warn, "She ought to be glad it wasn't Serena she bumped into. She would have been decked." 

MEN IN BLACK ~hJ_ ail-e ~? ~Wu~~? 

-;... flu... ~· e.s.e. -;... tidt 'Wad. e.s.e. 
7cn H«JU ~-. tk 
~~~~-~~"'~~ 
~seHUHaMf • '1t<wte ~. 1~ 46556 
(219) 631-63%5 • Mtp://ux()(.<Mt<i.e<Ut./-~ 
ANSWER* 
THECALLW 
And although they lost, Coach Sharp said he is still proud of' his team. "We did well. Everyone worked very hard," he said. "We will do a better job yet. /\s we move on, we will get stronger and stronger." 
The most exciting Saint Mary's play of the game came when Titan's Erin Gallagher tripped Barger, who passed the ball to Wagner just bdorn smashing the ground. 
Wagner centered the ball to Melissa Wychocki, who fired a shot on goal. 
However, the ball was stopped by the clutter of play­ers in front of the net. 
Soon after, Wychoeki again tried to score. The Illinois­Wesleyan keeper, while out of' the box, took her down. 
Wychocki had to be assisted 
off the field to tho sounds of applause l'rom tlw crowd. but the of'ficials only awardnd Saint Mary's a diro;~t kick. 
/\s the end of' tho game approached, teammatt~s. though previously silent, began to encourage each other loud­ly. The crowd also became more vocal. 
The Illinois-Wesleyan keeper became noticeably nt~rvous, advising her teammates to keep the del'ensive conserva­tive. Obviously listening to the leader, the Titans dung to the marginal lead. 
The Belles, however. remain optimistic about next week's game against rival Bethel College. 
"We came out strong," said the Belles' Hache! Egger, a stellar junior defender. "It is a new team, not used to playing with each other. Once we gnt it down, we'll be unstoppable." 
Senior Rap Up Groups 
Sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns 
So you're a senior... Excited? Confused? 

Mixed feelings about leaving? Stressed about the future? 
Join A Senior Rap Up Group! 
Each small group of seniors will meet five times (Sept., Oct., Nov., Jan/Feb., March) for dinner and conversation at a faculty or staff member's home. In a supportive and open atmosphere, you can reflect on questions you have about integrating social concerns into life beyond ND. 
(A $20 dollar fee covers expenses for meals.) 
Sign up by Tues., Sept. 8 at the Center for Social Concerns or email Shappell.1 @nd.edu 
,.. 
C £ H T £ R F 0 R 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Are you thinking 
about beconting Catholic? 
Would you like to sponsor 
someone 
who is? 
For more info, contact: 
Tami Schmitz or Frank Santoni 
@ 
631-5242 
Badin hall 

(bMPUSMINISTRY 

-
McGw-ire needs tw-o more to tie Maris 
Associated l_.:.'r:..:.c•__:_•________ 
MIAMI 

Mark Md;wire hit two homPrs for tlw SPCOIHI consnc­utiV<' night Wednesday against tlw Florida Marlins, giving him a rari'Pr-high 51). lin nPeds 
just  two  morP  to  ti<'  HogPr  
Maris'  :!7-yoar-old  major  
IPaguP r<~conl.  

M d ; w i r o h o m o r <' d i n t lw sPvonth inning against Brian t·:dmondson and again in tho Pighth on tlw first pitch from Hob Stanil'<~r. l·:ach was a two­run shot. 
TIJP first, whirl! Iandor! halfway up in tlw upper dock in IPft l'iPid, was ostimatPd at 497 J'nPt, making it tlw third­lollgosl in tho history oJ' Pro l'lay<~r Stadium. 
llis sPrond honwr :{0 min­ut.Ps lat.Pr was to l1d't-centor and t.ravPIPd an nstimat<~d 45S fPPI., giving tlH~ St. Louis Cardinals a 14-:{ lead. 
It was his eighth multi­homPr game this sPason and t.lw 51st oJ' his can~or. Maris hit(> 1 lwnwrs in I <J(J I. 
"I didn't oxpnct to havo 57 hy Snpt. I," McGwirn said lwforn the game, "but when I got to 50, I began to think about tlw mcord." 
llis 5Hth canw hours after Sammy Sosa hit No. 56 for the Chicago Cubs. 
"Sammy's a Soptmnlwr play­or. so you havo to watch out J'or him," McGwire said. "It's 1·.runch timo -time to make history." 
Aftor lwnwring Wednosday al'tnrnoon in tho Cubs' 4-2 win ovnr Cincinnati, Sosa prndieted Mr.Cwire might break loose again. 
"Mark has tlw possibility to comP hack tonight and hit two more. lie's playing in Miami. don't forgnt," Sosa said. 
Me<;wiro broko llack Wilson's (>8-ynar-old Nl. record of 5(> home runs with two Tuesday. 
Tlw Cardinals slugger sur­passNI his earnnr host of 5S homers last y<)ar -:{4 for Oakland and 24 for St. Louis. Tho only players to hit more honw runs in a season worn Maris and Babn l{uth, who hit (> 0 in 1 CJ 27. Hut h hit 59 in I <J21. 
Me<;wire has surpassnd Huth's major-league rocord of 114 homers in 
consecutive seasons, set in 
1927-28. 

McGwir<~ homnrod on a 2-1 pitch in the snventh, giving the Cardinals a 9-0 load. 
Tho homer camn after McGwire hit into a double play and walked twice in his previ­ous plate appearances. 
Aftnr MeGwire hit a pitch that appoared low and inside, ho pumpod his right lirst as he trottml toward first base. The standing ovation from the crowd of 45,170 lasted for about a minute, prompting a curtain call by the Cardinals 
slugg<~r. 

Thcre was another curtain 
call al'ter the homer in the 
oighth. 

Then McGwire was taken out 
of tho game by manager Tony 
La Bussa. 

MeGwire came into the game 
leading the major leagues with 
143 walks, a .736 slugging 
percentage and a .473 on-base 
percontage. The game attract­
ed more than 400 credentialed 
media -the largest following 
yet for McGwire's home-run 
chase. 

terested in j ,_,............ ·ut don't know where 
Saint Mary's College 
ACTIVITIES NIGHT
'I· 
Thursday, Septembe 7:00-9:00PM Angela Athletic Facil 
Fish ready to fry competition 
Johnson looks to 
instill aggressive play in troops for '98 campaign 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 
.Jimmy .Johnson cirdnd thn 90-gallon saltwal<)r tank in thn middleol' his ofl'icn. admiring the fish he had recently acquired. Their jagged te!)th formed frowns as they darted about, looking tough and aggressive. 
"Meat-eaters," Johnson said with a smile. "I told my coaches, this year we're get­ting meat-eaters." 
Johnson begins his third season as Miami Dolphins coach Sunday in Indianapolis, and he wants his players looking tough and aggressive, too. With Dan Marino at quarterback, the Dolphins have always found it easier to advance the ball over oppo­nents rather than through them, but Johnson expects that to change. 
This year the plan is to run 
the ball. 
"We don't care if the 
defense knows what we're 
doing," offensive coordinator 
Kippy Brown said. "If we exe­
cute, they can't stop us. We 
want to be a physical team." 
The playbook has been sim­
plified to emphasize the 
ground game, and a new atti­
tude has been encouraged in 
the offensive line. The key 
offseason acquisition was a 
guard, Kevin Donnalley, who 
developed a reputation for 
toughness during seven sea­
sons with the Oilers. That's why Johnson gave him a four-year, $12.4 million con­tract. 

"Toughness isn't cheap shots," Donnalley said. "Toughness is getting on your block and staying on it until the whistle blows. Toughness is bnlieving that if you stay on your guy, good things will happen. By tho third or fourth quarter you're foeling fn~sh and still standing, and tlw other guy is worn down, and that's when you lake control of the game and win it. ­
"That's what we're looking for." 
Any show of force would he a n i m p r o v e m !) n t. T h c Dolphins finished a disap­pointing 9-8 last year. pri­marily b<)cause they ranked next-to-last in rushing. Tlwir 
3.1 yards per carry was the worst in franchisc history. and their inability to control the ball hampered a talented but young defense. 
The coaching staff insists if the Dolphins run more this year, they'll run better. 
"Bunning the ball helps the offensive line the most," Brown said. "When you drop back and throw a lot, it's hard. When you give the line enough opportunities to attack the defense and blind­side them some, you !lip the thing over. We can attack defensive people and bc phys­ical and get their heads on a swivel." 
The Dolphins passed the ball 57 percent of the time last year, and Johnson wants to run it more than half the time this season. 
"What we want to get away from is coming to the line of scrimmage and having line­men thinking about what 
tlwy' n~ doing," Johnson said. "You want them to lw sun~ about their assignnwnts and concentrating on being aggrnssive." 
Tho n~vamped ofl'nnsP is similar to what Johnson installed in his third season with the Cowboys, who promptly climbed from :wth i n NF L yard a g <' to n i nth . Donnall<'y said tlw chang<'s arn similar to wlwn thn Oilnrs switched from thP run-and­shoot to a run-oriented attack a 11 d fin ish e d t h i r d i n t lw league in rushing last y<'ar. 
"That can happe 11 lwr<'." Donnalley said. "It will hap­p<Hl." 
While Johnson wants more musl·.le, he's also hoping lirst­round draft pick John Avery will provide more speed. The rookie running back scored on a 71-yard run in his first 
preseason game, and  lw'll  
share  playing  tim<~  with  
Karim Abdul-Jabhar.  
Avery  could  give  the  

Dolphins the quick-strike capability they've lacked in recent seasons. But Miami is thin at receiver. and Marino lost his most promising deep threat when Yatil Green sus­tained a season-nnding knne injury for the second yNtr in a row. 
With Green gone, the need to move the ball on the ground becomes more imp!)r­ative. 
"The only way you can have fun on offense is with the long strike or to knock the hell out of somebody, and you do that by running the ball," Brown said. 
Johnson put it another way. 
"The more meat-eaters you have," he said. "the more games you win." 

Yankees lOOth win put on hold 
Oakland hands New York first shutout loss at 
Yankee Stadium 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK 
On what they hoped would be a milestone night. the Yankees got all wet. 
New York's quest to reach win No. 100 on tlw earli<~st date in major league history was delayed when the Yankees lost to the Oakland Athlntics 2-0 Wednesday night in a game that began 2 hours, 14 minutes late fol­lowing heavy rain. 
It was the first shutout loss at home for thn Yankees sinen last Sept. 19 against Toronto. and it endnd David Conn's pnrfnct 11-0 n~eonl in Yankee Stadium this season. It also marked just the third LimP in (>7 honw games this smtson that Nnw York (99­:~8) fai!Pd to IPad for at !Past part of tlw ganw. 
Tlw Parliest datP a !Pam won its IOOth ganw is Sept. 1). a fpat arcomplishPd by both tlw 19!H> Chicago Cubs 
and tho I 954 ClnvPland Indians. Nnw York's nPxl attnm pt will lw Friday, wlwn it starts a thrPP-ganw sPriPs against tlw Chirago WhitP Sox at Comiskny Park. 
(;it IIPn~dia (3-0) ullowPd just fivp hits in 7 2-3 innings as Oakland boat tlw YankPPs J'or just the third lim<' in II ganws this snason. 
T..J. Mathews got tiH' final out in thn eighth and Billy Taylor finislwd for his 29th save. BnmiP Williams singl<~d with two outs in thn ninth, but Tino Martinez llind out to thn warning track in eentPr to end it. 
Matt Stairs hit an BBI groundout in tlw first and Hvan Christnnson hit his lifth himwr of tlw S<'ason off MikP Stanton in thn eighth. Moanwhilo. A's pitrlwrs prP­vnnted tlw YankPPS J'rom g<'t­ti ng any !Pado IT ba t!PI'S on basP. 
About half oJ' tlw :w.:n 2 who bought ticknts didn't SPP any ol' it; tlwy IPJ't during llw rain dPiav. 
ConP (I S-5), SPPking to bProm I' t I](' l'i r s t I 1)-g a m <' winn<'r in tlw major IPaguPs this SPaSOII, allO\\'Pd OIIP l'llll and J'our hits in SPV<'n innings and striking out I 0. 

-..: 
page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, September 3, 1998 
•

-Bears thrown into another preseason QB shuffle 
Associated Press 

LAKE FOHEST. Ill. 
Tlw Chicago BPars arc starting the season with another quartNbark ques­tion. Only this year the question isn't tal­rnt. it's Erik Kramer's big toe. 
Kramer threw Wednesday for the first tinw since spraining his left big toe in tlw Bears' last exhibition game. But he worn shorts and a T -shirt. and he didn't spend much time on the field before going back inside for treatment. 
"I give it a 50-50 chance," Kramer said of playing in Sunday's season opPn­er against JacksonvillP. ''I'm going to hold out hope evnry day that goes by. Unless it's just apparent that I feel gn)at, which may not happen until Friday or Saturday." 
If he can't play, the Bnars will have to go with Steve Stenstrom, who's never started an NFL game. Stenstrom didn't even know last week if he'd make Chicago's roster, and he's played in a grand total of four games in his career. 
Stenstrom bncame thn backup when the Bears released Rick Mirer, who wouldn't take a cut in his three-year, $10 million contract. 
''I'm ready to go. It's benn a good w1~ek of practice and we've still got two days to go," Stenstrom said. "''d be doing this team an injustice if I didn't prepare to bn the starter. It's better to prepare that way and react the other way." 
"Let's wait. I was 1mcouraged today, I really was," Wannstrdt said. "''m going to be optimistic. I think he's going to come out and do something tomorrow." 
Kramer started the rest of the season, and he signed a three-year, $9 million deal in the offseason. He was the starter all through camp. and Wannstedt planned to play him just a quarter in the last exhibition ganw Friday to makl) sure he was healthy for the opencr. 
But as ho scrambled to avoid being sacked on tlw last play of thn first quar­ter, Kramt)r ground his toe into tlw turf and loft the field limping. 
"It's unfortunate, but we also have to understand that if Erik can't go. wn havo anothnr quarterback that we havl) to rally around," said Curtis Conway, Chicago's leading roceivnr. "Wn can't sit back and say we don't havn ePrtain guys. We havn to rally around thn guy that's in then~ and put points on tlw board." 

Thursday, September 3, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
• U.S. OPEN 
Chang set for U.S. Open 
Associa1ed Press "What is important is to be able to pick yourself back up and try again." NEW YOBK So Chang is trying despitn his string 
Wrap Miehanl Chang's tnnnis snason of' injuries. somn major, some minor, in somo handagos and lwavy gauzn all disruptive. lie pref'nrs a positive and just hopn nothing nlsn bad hap­attitude. pnns to him. "I am still left in the draw," hn said. 
It has btwn ono injury aftnr another That puts him ahead of h4 first-round l'or Chang, who f'inishod last year losnrs. rankml third in tho world al'ttH' rnadJ­"I feel like I have as good ashot a ing thn st~mifinals at tlw U.S. Open. anybody and I have gotten dosH in the 
This yt~ar, lw is unsePdnd and all but past,. so why not have the attitudn that l'orgottnn in a sPason mon• notod for I can comn out and play great tnnnis his wounds than wir1s. and maybe nvnn win the tournamrmt," 
S t iII. Chang is in tlw 0 pen in an Chang said. uplwal mood al'tnr Pnding a 13-month That would bn a huge accomplish­winiPss strnak a wenk ago in Boston. mont in Chang's season of' aches and And WPdrwsday's h-1. (J-:{. (J-1 victory pains that startnd narly. Ask him about ovor l:yal J:rlirh did nothing to dimin­his injuries and he wondm·s if there's 
ish his Pnthusiasm. enough limn to list them all. "Boston obviously hnlpod quito a bit," "I havn had two major injuries and I 
lw said. "It was nicn to bo abll~ to linal­have had some small11r injurins," ly win a tournanwnt. It has beon a Chang said. "I strained a stomach mus­whill' and that doos good things for cln just prior to thn Australian Op<m. I your conlidonco. I l'nol liko my capabili­had a bruised foot at thn end of thn ty and stuff' as far as lwating tho host tournament in Memphis." 
playm·s hasn't changNI." Then at Indian Wells, Chang was 
l·:rlil'h doosn't fit that doscriplion. praetidng with Andrei Mmlvedev when This was only his socond (;rand Slam thn sprinklers suddenly started watnr­lournanwnl and only tlw I Xth tour­ing the adjacnnt day court. The mist lovPI match of' his rarnor. Chang beat drifted Chang's way and he slipped, him in only XX milllrtos. tnaring his left knee. 
It hardly qualiliod as a major test but As hn worked his way back from a 25 it will do !'or startPrs for Chang, who pnrcent tear in his medial collatnral rwvor has fullillod the promise he dis­ligament, Chang altered his backhand playPd whPn lw won tlw Frenel1 Opnn and thn dHwgn caused tendinitis to as a 17-yPar-old in 19XIJ. That is his dnvelop in his wrist. only (;rand Slam victory. Can lw makn "All in all, I can look back at my 
tlw Opl'n his snr.ond" c.areer and honestly say I have been "SurP," lw said, "Why not'?" pn~tty injury-f'r-en," he said. "Tlwy have l'asl failures might lw orw n~ason. come in bunchns. but I feel like I'm 
Chang, howevnr, n~rusns to lnt tlwm doing good. I am here at the U.S. Open. intPrf<•n•. I am in thn second rouncl. We will kenp 
"I think I rould look bal'k through tlw it going." · past fi'\V yoars, looking at missnd This troubling year has taught him opportunitil's and things like that," lw mw thing, though. said. "But onl' thing I haVI' IParrwd is "If' I go back to that sarnn court next not to dwPII on missPd f'!Jani'I'S or ynar and I see that sprinklnr go ol'f'," hn 
misspd opportunitil's or limos whoro said, "I am going to bn upsnt." you haVI' faiiPd. 
• HOCKEY 

Fans on the ''Power-Play'' 
Special to The Observer Interested participants may regis­
ter in advance at the following loca· 
The University of Notre Dame ice tions: the Rolfs RecSports Building,hockey team will be sponli)oring the North and South Dining Halls, the second annual "Power·Play Life Skills Office (second floor, Joyce 
Run/Walk" for the fight against can~ Center) and with dorm athletic com­cer on Sunday. Sept. 6. missioners. The event~which attracted 450 
Alumni and visitors who are in 
entrants in 1997-has been moved to town during the weekend also can Notre Dame Stadium, with partici­register or make donations on pants circling the playing field at Saturday, Sept. 5 at the Alumni distances of either a two·mile walk, Association hospitality area, from a five kilometer run or a 10-kilome­8:30 a.m.-noon in the south dome of ter run. the Joyce Center. 
The Power-Play Hun/Walk has Entry fees will be used towards been established In the memory of donations to the Bennett Cancer Ed Slaggert, who passed away in the Center in Stamford. Conn., by estab· summer of 1997 after a battle with lishing a scholarship fund for those cancer. students who are fighting caneer. Slaggert is the brother of Andy Advance registration costs are $6 Slaggert. a 1990 graduate of the for students and $10 for alumni, fac­Notre Dame hockey program who is ulty, staff and community members. in his sixth season as an assistant On-site registrations costs will be $8 
coach with the Irish hockey team. and $12, respectively."Last year's event was a very Tho format again will include com· rewarding experience and we hope petitive racing while allowing for 
for an even greater turnout this time walkers and casual joggers to move around," said Slaggert, who will join at their own pace.the rest of the Irish hockey program All participants will reeeive a race members as the core entrants in the t-shirt courtesy of Adidas and race. refreshments. · 
"It's always great when an event Interested runners and walkers like this can bring together people may register or receive further from the Notre Dame community information from the Notre Dame and even people who are in town for Life Skills Office at 6:-n-9367. 
the football game. Hegistration also is being coordi· ''We had some Georgia Tech foot· nated by the Recreation Sportsball fans there last year and would Office, through athletic commission­love to see some Michigan fans show ers at the various campus dorms 
up. It's just a great chance for peo· and at the North and South Diningpie to wind down and get some Halls during lunch and dinner hours exercise for a good cause, after an (from Sept. 2-4). 
exciting day of football on The Notre Dame Federal Credit Saturday." Union js serving as an additional 
On-site registration will begin on sponsor for the 1998 PowerPlaySunday at 10:15 a.m., with the event Run/Walk. set to begin at 11:30 a.m. 

W£vE 6t..oo<Eo OFF 11-fE ENTIRE S1m:rFOR IRISH FANS! 

(Limited Delivery Area-$5 Minimum-Drivers Carry Less Than $20) 
Call Chris Miller at 631-7508 
Check us out at http://www.wolfie.net 
Friday Sept. 4tL TS. West Virginia 7:3o...AND_ 
Sunday Sept. 6th Ts. PiHsLurgL I:Oop... 
All students, faculty and staff free!!! 

back healthy, but he has missed a lot of work." 
0-Line 

Mowl has never seen action in a Notre Dame uniform. 
continued from page 24 

Senior John Wagner is a big, played." physical player, who may see 
Junior Jim Jones is 6 foot 3. some playing time this season at 295 pounds and slated to work the tackle position, while John behind Jerry Wisne. lie is one of Teasdale is a young sophomore the strongest players on the who will continue to develop as team. but only appeared in one he also backups Rosenthal at game last year and that was at tackle. · nose tackle. Junior Mike Gandy battled 
Bob Mowl is set to backup Ridder for the starting job at Merandi, along with J.W.Jordan. offensive guard, but should back 
''I've got concerns with our him up instead. Gandy made the backups. particularly the center move from tight end last season position," commented Davie. to guard for this season. Last "Bob missed some practice. He's year, his season was cut short 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 

Shorin-Ryu Karate -Students are instructed according to tra­ditional Okinawan techniques. Semester long course that meets in Rockne 219 T!fh 6-7:30 p.m., starting September 10. There will be a demonstration on Tuesday, Sept. 8 at 6:30 p.m. The cost is $18 and you must register in advance at RecSports. For more info, call RecSports at 1-6100. 
Women's Safety and Self-Defense -This course exposes women to basic self·defense techniques as used in real-life crisis situations. Class meets for ten sessions on MIW 6:30 • 7:45 p.m. beginning Sept. 7. There is a class fee of $12 which should be paid at the time of registration at RecSports. 
Modem Dance ..,... This class will be tailored for a range of abil­lities. Semester long course that will meet Mffh 6:15•7:30 p.m. in Activity Room 2 at the RSRC. You must register in advance at RecSports. The cost is $35. 
Beginner Ballet -No experience necessary. Class meets Su 
2:30-4 p.m. and Tu 7:30 ·8:45p.m. in Act. Rm. 2 at the RSRC. 
Registration fee is $35 and signups are at RecSports. Class size 
is limited. Call RecSports for more info, 

Horseback Riding Lessons -The info. m~~ti;ng for t})is course 
will be Wed., Sept. 9 at 7 p.m. in RSRC classroom. The course is 
five lessons on Th from 5-6 p.m. Students will learn the English 
style an all levels are welcome. . 
SCUBA -This certification class begins Sunday, Septmnber .6; The class mee~s for seven Sundays from 3:30 -7:30 p.m. at Rockne Rm. 218 and pool. For more info., please call Bill Archer at 1-5443. 
One Night Soccer Tournament"-Thursday, Sept;!O,.begin· 
ning 6 p.m. live on five plus goalie. Please register y6ur team at 
the RecSport.-; office ASAP -tournament is limited to the first 12 
teams that sign up. Deadline for entry is Sept. 9. For more info., 
call RecSports. 

RccSports Golf Championship -Play 18 holes on Sat., Sept. 19 
at the ND Golf Course. This is a play your own ball tournament ­
tee times begin at 10 a.m. Register and pay $8 at the Golf Pro 
Shop. Deadline is Wednesday, Sept. 16. Call RecSports for info. 
Challengc-U-Fitness-Run Sept. 2, Sept. 9. It is not too late to 
participate. Spaces are still available in many fitness classes. 
Call1-6100 for more info. 

~~ ® ~ffiu®~u© 
Sacred Heart Parish University of Notre Dame 
Offers RCIA with:
1!11111!!1.

·ra,,;:,,, ;:,etting on ND campus 
•Wednesday evening sessions 
•A diverse mix of people and ages 
•A convenient option for students who cannot attend Campus Ministry RCIA 

after he broke a bone just above his ankle prior to the Pittsburgh game. 
Junior Matt Brennan is expected to contribute on the offensive line and is slated to backup Petitgout at tackle. lie has good foot speed for a big man, but is still working on his pass protection. He saw minimal playing time in the Navy game last season. 
In addition to the returning backups, the Irish also brought in three freshmen. Ryan Scarola, a USA Today honorable mention all-American pick. comes in at 6 foot 5 and 320 pounds. Jordan Black, also weighs in at 320 pounds and was rated one of the top 100 players nationally according to the Dallas Morning News. Jeff Boehl, the third freshman of the group, was ranked the 98th best player according to the Chicago Sun Timns. 
"I expect us to be a good oll'ensive line, I really do," com­mented Davie. "lWei certainly have enough talent, certainly had enough time with them now that they're comfortable in the scheme. I think all of us expect some productivity." 
The Irish offensive line will need all that and more when they go up against Michigan's talented de-fensive line this 

The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Saturday at Notre Dame 

With the game on the line, the Irish hope Jerry Wisne will help clear
Stadium. 
house. 

Wolfie's 
Pasta. Sandwiches. Service & More! 
Location: 

-in the Campus Shoppes 
-1835 South Bend Ave. 
-Between Ironwood and Edison 
Hours: 

-Sunday to Thursday 
I lam to lam 

-Friday and Saturday 
I lam to Jam 

FREE DELIVERY 
2~3-9911 
Wolfie's 
Pasta. Sandw-iches. Service & More!!! Our Apologies 
We strive to give you the best possible service at all times and on Wednesday August 26 
we where caught off guard by your sudden demand (something about a picnic). We are 
expanding our capabilities to ensure this doesn't happen again. To make it up to you we 
11

• • I ', I •I • ,. oil • I ·e ·ue· : : 11"1 II I •I 
FREE DELIVERY 243-9911 

-~-----------------------------------~---~ --­
Thursday, September 3, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
~~----------------------~~~~~~~~--------------------------------~~~ 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF ND 
and with that, 
tht· witch hurril'd awa~' hack to hl'r dl'll or horrors. 
l_--__________ 

FOXTROT 
A\.L RIGHT, Got.OlliWAIT, HERE'S THE DEA\.. I'M A J'UNIOR. You'RE A FRESHMAN. I'M ORDERIMG YOJ Tb CHANGE 
ouT oF THAT 
/ SHIRT. 
I CAN'T PROCESS "r'OUR VOUCHER 
eECAUSE IHE..S£. 
YoU WANT MoNEY?.' 
FINE! FINE! HERE'S $5" .1 NoW HURRY uP.' 
\ 
E 
'l 0 IHE.'Y 
..
0 ® A.R.E.N'T 
~ 
.. FJ\\<.E! 
"0 
DAN SULLIVAN 


BILLAl\IEND 
ER, PuT IT BAcK You KNow, ON. lHIS OoEStfT I ALWAYS LooK GooD. THOV&HT 
I I'D MAKE A GooD ___...........,__ CHIPPENOALES 
OANC:ER. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
BECAUSE 
1\ND NOW 
~ THE.'c''R£. 
'r'OU'LL \ELL 
! J'UST 
1"\£ THERE'S 

TAKE IToFF! 
"-., TAKE IT oFF! TAkE IT oFF.' TAKE IT oFF! 


CROSSWORD ACROSS 
1 Like good beds s -~the finish 9 Word said in 
grace 14 Marion's "On the Waterfront" 
director 15 Fix up 16 Circumscribe 17 Attempt at a 
carnival booth 18 This has a big mouth 19 Walled city near Madrid 20 Tonto portrayer, briefly 22 "Goodnight, Irene" singer, briefly 24 Union headquarters? 
52 Afore 53 Irish Rose lover 54 "Silly Cow" 
playwright Ben 56 Like Marilyn Monroe, briefly 59 Early theater, 
briefly 62 Caribbean eden 63 The final word 65 Sicilian smoker 66 Linoleum layer 67 Smoke detector 66 No-win 
situations? 69 Sank the putt, 
with "out" 70 Actress Harper 71 Louis Armstrong 
popularized it 
DOWN 
1 Physical 
beginning 2 Sleep like-­3Jangling 
25 Symbols of kingly power 26 Financing abbr. 28 Aries article 29 Future fish 30 Lose (to) 33 Old instrument of torture, briefly 36 Apparition 38 One on a pedestal 39--Cayes, Haiti 41 See 42-Across 
42 With 41-Across, kidnapper's correspondence 
45 Bond nemesis, briefly 46 Cambridgeshire cathedral town 49 Kindergarten break 51 Cartoon dog 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

47 Eagerly studying 56 Trodden track so Hairsplitter 57 The Bee Gees, 53 "Who's Afraid of e.g. 
Virginia Woolf?" 58 Certain charger playwright 60 Most draftable 
61 Democratic Lefty" 55 "Waiting for 
donkey designer playwright 64 Berg of baseball 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

YOUR HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Vak·rie Perrine, Charli<· Sheen. Kilty Carlisle, AI Jardine 
11.1ppy Birthday: Don't IL'I anger llr disappointment stand in rour way. Yc.\ll must overcome an\' obstacles lhat )"<>U f,lCe by using the obstacle In lll'lp you achi<•w your overall goals. Use y<lUr great discipline as a extra tool. The harder you work, the lllllfl' you'll accomplish This is a linw of grcal pressure, bul it's also a turnmg poinl for you regarding your direc­tion in life. Your numbers: R, 17, 26, 30, 35,44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You can ask for favors, but don't take lhe people who give them to rou for granted. Your goals will be within reach if YC!U direct your energr wiselr Use your inventiw mind to find Cfl'· atiw solutions. 00 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your sentimental feelings may distract you and make il difficult for you to gel anything done at work. Don't be too quick to judge your partner or any-. one who you arc working with 00000 
GEMINI (May 21·June 20): You 
must consider yourself ready for a 
change of some sort. A trip, an educa­
tional pursuit or a project that will 
lead you to a whole new look should 
be on your agenda. 000 
CANCER (June '21-July 22): You 
can stabilize your financial situation if 
you make some property invest­
ments. Luck will be with you regard­
less of whatever financial venture 1·ou 
choose. 000 ­
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Romantic 
relationships should stabilize. Plea­
sure trips will turn out to be better 
EUGENIA LAST 
thJn ynu t'\ t•r antinpdll'd )uu l'o~n fin.lllv ..:.1kh up on yt~ur Ctlrrl'S!'tll1­dL'I1C<' .md nwling 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23·Srpt. 221: '"" ct1n tinall\· reo..•ivc recognition lor .Ill the work \'Oll'\'t.' been Jom~ YPlH llllH]Ul' tlnd Crl'~ltl\'l' \\'cl\' til dlllllh thing~ IM~ caught thl' L'\'l' ot "'l'Olt.'UJh' in a l11glwr p<•sition 00000 LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Lllng­a\"\'dlh.'d rC'Iatmnships ~ue no\\' rt•.hh t<' lwgin Y<•u may find lhat th,· rhll· dren in ytlUr life ar(' nut as .lcn'ptm~ 
as you hJVl' been. Pamp('r your~t.·lf. vou deserve il. 00 ~ SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 211: Y11u 
may find it difficull to discuss per>on­dl matters wilh family members. YPu can re,1lly accomplish sornelhing 11 ~·ou pul some effort mto h••u>L•hold duties or redecorating plam. 0000 
SAGilTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 211: 
ln-lav-.'S or oldl'T 1nd1\'iduals rnJ\· gin• 
you a bit of a h,mi time tod<l)'. Rdu"' 
tn lt'l uthers put unrl'alistir demand• 
on you. Depression is likl'l)' if vou're 
away from home. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-jan. Jq): 
Don" I lei other people meddle in your 
private affairs. You should be able I<' 
make major career gains if you plan 
your intentions very carefully 000 
AQUARIUS (jan. 20-Feb. 18): You 
may find that depression is c,wsing 
vou to feel lonely and insl'CurL'. Y<lU 
neL•d In get not with triends wlw ,m• 
both P'"itiw and supp,<rtil't' 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Ynu 
mal" want to get some minor surg.•n 
dL'n<•. You can be sure thai am· deal· 
ing with large institutil!Jls should g<• 
well. Don't hesitate to visit someonl' 
who hasn't lwen 1wll. 0000 

Birthday Baby: You are brighl, articulate and read others well. You know exactly what you want and how to get it. You are talented when workmg w1th fine detail and will often surprise those around rou with your deep insighl and knowledge. 
Wanted: Reporters, pho.. tographers and editors for the news, sports and Scene depart.. ments. Join The Observer staff. 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
The Observer 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ Address _______________________________________ City ---------------State ______ Zip___________ 

• Despite Michael 
• McGwire hits two
• Chicago Bears under­
Chang's injury, he 
more to draw with in 
go another quarterback 
remains poised for the 
three of breaking Maris' 
change. 
U.S. Open. 
record. 

p.21 
p.l9
p.20

PORTS 
O THE 

page24----------------------------------------------Thursday, Sept~mber 3, 1998
BSERVER 


• FooTBALL 

Rosenthal leads strong group of front line veterans 
By BRIAN KESSLER "Rosie" was named a first team preseason all­Assistant Spom Ediror American by both FiJOtball News and Athlon. The Granger, ln. native is also considered one 
Hosenthal, Wisne, Ridder, Petitgout-all Irish fans will of the frontrunners for the Outland Trophy, lind these four names familiar, but they will carry spe­an award given to the top offensive lineman in cial signi!icance this season as they anchor the offensive the nation. line for the twenty-second ranked Notre Dame football Senior Luke l'etitgout returns at the other team. tackle spot for the Irish. 
Thn men in the trenches for the Irish have experience Davie recently spoke about his regard for and size -probably the two most important qualities a big ol' number 54: "I think Petitgout is one of linnman can possess. the success stories in college football. I 
"I hope to be better. I think we should be better," said remember when he was on the scout squad head coach Bob Davie. "We have three players back, here, it was almost like he was a rear scout Rosenthal and Pettigout at tackle, and Wisne at guard." teamer. [He] moved around from position to 
Senior tri-captain Mike Rosenthal will be starting for position. No one really gave him much chance his third straight year. This year however, the 6-foot-7, of being a player. 300 pounder makes the move from guard to tackle. "Last year he worked hard, [he] made a After starting all 13 games last year for the Irish, commitment to being at Notre Dame," Davie 
continued. "[He] made a commit­ment to being a football player. Chris Clevenger got hurt in the first game of the year and Petitgout ended up playing the next 11 foot­ball games and ended up being our 

The Observer/Brandon Candura 
best offensive lineman last year." 

The Irish will need to hold off the Michigan defensive line to give backs
Petitgout. a !ifth-year player, gave 

like Autry Denson (23) a lane to run.
the Irish quality minutes last season 

and did an outstanding job filling in for he's played." Clevenger. The Irish will be looking for similar Ridder hopes to employ the same blocking skills he production fmm the 6 foot 6, 300 pounder. used at tight end to help protect quartPrback Jarious 
"I think he's really made progress as a play­Jackson when he drops back to pass. er," Davie said. "lie's got some quickness. I The new addition to the linn is junior John Morandi, 
think _he has a chance to be a line pro player who replaces Hick Kaczenski at the all-important eentnr without any question. lie's come an awful long spot. way and is really a good player." ".John Morandi. ev1m though he hasn't played a lot. 
Jerry Wisne will be a regular at the guard he's a talented player," said Bob Davin at a recent press position once again this year. The senior has 
conference. "lie gives us a spark in them." 16 career starts and made major contributions Merandi earnr.d a monogram last season playing a to the offnnsive line as a junior. The coaches backup role to Kaczenski. He checks in at (J foot 3. 293 will be looking for good things from numbnr 71 pounds and has all the right attributes to lw a solid once again this season. oiTense lineman for the Irish. 
Tim Ridder started three games last season The starting lineman shouldn't be too much of a con­at tight end, but this year he makes the move cern for Davie, but the men who will back them up \\ill to offepsive guard, filling the void left by be. Rosenthal. "Our backups arc somewhat of a concern, said Davie. The Observer/Brandon Candura "Tim Ridder has played a lot of football for "[We'vr,] got some talent there; it's just that they haven't Senior Mike Rosenthal enters the season as a frontrunner for the 
us," said Davie. "He hasn't been a starter, but 
see 0-LINE I page 22 

Outland Trophy, given to the top offensive lineman in the nation. 
• SAINT MARY's CRoss CouNTRY 
Second time's a charm for Belle harriers 
By KATIE DERENGOSKI Spores Wrirer 

Saint Mary's cross country team is only in its second year. However, this season. they are ready to compete with the maturity they have displayed in practice. 
The Belles have been conditioning steadily and team members have said that they think improvement has already been made since last season. 
Coach David Barstis said he strongly believes that the Belles will improve with the two goals he has set for the approaching season. 
"Our goal for the season this year is to finish in the top five in the conference and to have a runner make all-conference," said Bars tis. 
Co-captain Genevieve Yavello said that she has high hopes about the team's prospects as well. "I've already been very impressed with our new coach and lncwl girls," she said. The schedule is packed with tough competition like their first meet against Aquinas College on Friday, Sept. 11. The !irst meet will give the team a chance to. assess its strengths and weaknesses. The schedule will remain stiff with Saint Marv's second meet at National Catholics, then later at the MIAA .Jamb;Jree. 
The rest of the schedule includes the Ponderosa -Maple Leaf Invitational. the Benedictine University Invitatio·nal. and the .Jackets Invitational. all before the MIAA Championship in October. 
Although they face fierce competitors in their six regular season meets, Yavello said that she thinks that the team works well together and is very pleased to see the cross country program at Saint Mary's building. 
_
.. 

• SAINT MARY's SOCCER­

SMC suffers loss in first game 
By RUTH SNELL Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's College soccer team opened its season in a war-like battle, slain by Illinois Wesleyan in a disappointing 1­0 loss. 
In front of crpwded home bleachers Wednesday after­noon, the Belles' fast and furi­ous pace was interrupted by the Titans' defense. 
Saint Mary's keeper .Jo Wagner easily blocked the Titans' first shot attempt and continued to do so throughout most of the game. But most was not enough. 
T.hn Titans' Liz Downes scornd just before the end of the lirst half, and unfortunate­ly for the Belles, it was the only 

score of the game. The Observer/Lauren O'Neal Saint Mary's trind valiantly The Belles lost a heartbreaker in the season opener to Illinois-Wesleyan. but was unable to answer in 
utes of the game. Illinois Most of the action of the
kind. 

Wesleyan's passing was game was at the east end ofBefore the game-winning 
mediocre. the l'ield, even after the half­
goal, though, Saint Mary's At one point. Illinois­time side change. The Titans

Monica Cernanec and Illinois ­

Wesleyan's coach Tony dominated the first half. while
Wesleyan's Kel Erion collided Bankston admonished his play­the Belles, looking to turnheads. Both sat on the field, 

ers by saying, "It's like you're around last season's 7-13
collecting thnir wits. 

.kicking to nobody. Better pass­record, dominated the Sfleond.
Running, not passing, char­es here."

acterized the beginning min-see SOCCER I page 18 
vs Michigan Volleyball vs Georgia ·.
,11 
September 5, 2:30 p.m. at Kalamazoo Invitational 
SPORTS 

@) September 4, 8 p.m. ®. 
,fJ!i'flo September 4-5 
vs West Virginia 
ATA 

\~ September 4, 7:30 p.m. 
Cross Country Soccer &t' "it. at Syracuse vs Loyola, Purdue, Buder vs Bethel College 
@

ta :l\11' September 5, 7 p.m. September 12, II a.m. . September 8, 4 p.m. 
GLANCE 
• 






