
• Scene reviews "If I Don't Six," a fictional account • Monday's politically-motivated riots 
Tuesday

of the hazards of college football sub-culture, written exacerbate Malaysia's economic troubles. 
by former University of Michigan offensive lineman Elwood Reid. 
SEPTEMBER 

Scene • 12-13 
22, 1998
World &Nation • 5 

THE 




Tlze Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 20 WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 
• TECHNOLOGY BEAT 


NO revamps on-line admissions site 
By LAURA ROMPF an on-line application and also Drev said. News wri[er offers a virtual tour that takes any Notre Damn oiTnred an on-litw computer user to the Notre Dame applieation last year. but tlw dm:i­
Notre Damn now offers an campus. It has specific sections for sion to upgrade the process came improved on-line application ser­parents. transfer students, coun­from high demand for on-line vice and other new features follow­selors, alumni representatives, admissions, Drev said. ing a 4 1/2-month renovation or its sixth-through IOth-graders and Shamrock Nnt Dnsign. a local undergraduate admissions wcbsitn. the general publie. · internet marketing firm handlt1d 
"Studies show that nearly half of Furthermore, the website the project. all graduating seniors daim that ineludes audience personalization "The wnbsitn is now up and run­they would prefer to fill out an and is offered in live different lan­ning, and people are presnntly application for admission over the guages to reaeh the diverse popu­using it-around 10,000 have vis­web," said John Drevs director of lation that Notre Dame hopes to ited the site. and about 700 stu­sales and elient services at attract. dents have startml on-line applica­Shamrock Net Design. "This means "Many universities are starting to tions," Dmvs said. that creating a well-designed and use websites, but Notre Dame has Shamroek Net D£1sign was eiTieient on-line application is a set their own standard. Their site formed in 11)9(> by Hobert Drnvs, necessity." is personalized, and one of the Paul Berrent.tini and the latn Brian 
The revamped website features most comprehensive on the web," see WEB I page 4 
Break a leg... 

The Observer/David laHeist 
Seamus Deane. Keough Chair in Irish studies, lectured yes­terday in Snite Museum of Art on connections between art and his first novel "Reading In the Dark." 

Deane lecture mixes painted, written artforms 
By BRIDGET O'CONNOR 
Associate N<'W> Editor 
In his lt>rtun• and rnading "Telling the Timn; Words and l'irlures," Snamus lkatu~. thn Knough Chair in Irish Studins linkt>d tlw nwthod of narration in his now1l, "Hnading In llw Dark," to paintings by C.L. Muller and llnnjarnin 'v\'Pst itt tlw l•:ightntmth Ctmtury Gallery of the Snitn i\luseum of Art. 
l>Patw's a\vard-winning now! tells tlw story of the rela­tionship bl't.wnon a young boy and his fatlwr, and tlw truth about his vanishPd brotlwr. 
"I wanlPd llw n~ader to adually son llw fact' of the boy, tlw fat:!' of tlw fatlwr and tlw fat~e or the brother." said l>Patw. 
see ART I page 4 
Gootblat lecture covers 'mating, dating, relating' 
By GRETCHEN TRYBUS about college-aged relation­the outset. Gootblat explained former radio host daims. 1-Ier be easy. Cootblat continued. If News Writer ships. her thoughts on sueh topics listing covers two main con­a relationships is inlwritantly 'Tm proud of what I do and largely through a set or 17 cepts. bad, run from it, she recom­
Snx. passion and intimacy -I'm going to bust my chops for premises. "Would I ask myself out if I mended. nxpt)rieneed through meeting, you tonight," could'?" she "Sweep out your house from dating. relating and mating -Cootblat began, asking a the peopln who are killing were the topics examined by opened. She question that you," she advised, introdueing the stdf-labeled "guru of continued 'GIVE A RELATIONSHIP YOUR BEST SHOT AND IF IT'S explains one of her second main point: happi­romance," Ellt•n Gootblat. who attempting to the two main ness.
NOT GOOD ENOUGH FOR YOUR PARTNER, GIVE UP.'
delivered a seventh annual shed light on concepts: self­It is not important to have ltH:ture last night in Carroll sometimes-eon-discovery. You 100 people in your life; it is Auditorium. fusing topics of ELLENGOOTBLAT must make better to have a few that are 
t\ former ABC New York romance, yourself fabu-close, she explained. talk-radio host. Gootblat friendships and lous before you Gootblat focused her advice explained she strives to keep family. She did this by focusing "If you don't have a good can be with someone else, into some important words of her audiences entertained on topies such as how to be majority of her premises in a according to Gootblat. while answering questions smart in a relationship from romance, it's doomed," the Relationships are meant to 
see MATING I page 4 

Tuesday, September 22, 1998
page 2 The Observer· INSIDE 
Princeton experiments with 24-hour dormitory lock-out 

Hello there. I have always had an interest in the gothic culture and goths in general. Even 
though I would not  
consider myself to be a  
goth (I'm too animated  C. R. "Teo" Teodoro  
and optimistic), I  Illustrations Editor  
always wondered how  
I would be if I were a  
goth.  

I guess it wouldn't make too much difTerence since most people think I'm pretty crazy any­way. But for those who do not know what I am talking about, here's a little help. 
Gothics, or goths, are those people that real­ly stick out of the homogeneous society and usually identified by wearing all black, putting on pale white make-up, and being cynical and critical of everything by saying how life sucks. 
A friend of mine down in Austin, Texas, isn't actually a goth, but she admits that she does it once a month. She's the one from whom I would usually learn about goths. She would go to a club where other goths hang out and join the atmosphere. In the club she said that they all act pretentious and cynical of everyone else. Of course, she did the same thing too. 
They also dance funny. Now, it usually isn't frantic and fast, but rather slow and really eerie. Imagine someone trying to do kung fu without really knowing how and doing it real­ly, really slow. Now that's gothic dancing. 
I am aware of four ways in which goths dress themselves. One way is that of the ante­diluvian. This goth would wear clothes out of antiquity, clothes that are usually out of date by about a century or more. A common exam­ple would be wearing something that a swash­buckling pirate would wear. 
A second style of dress that goths sometimes adopt is the androgynous style. Ladies would wear things that aren't necessarily feminine. The goth would wear something that would make her gender ambiguous, so that at Jirst glance it is relatively difficult to determine if she is a guy or a girl. Same goes for guys: long flowing robes, along with long black hair, are good examples of how this is achieved. 
The third style that I am aware of is bondage gear. Leather or vinyl clothing is worn, usually very tightly, and various acces­sories finish the outlit. Spikes, chains, straps, even piercings are common ways to add to the image. Sometimes, the outfit is worn to be a little too revealing, but not always. I think shock value is prominent when considering wearing bondage gear. 
The fourth style that my friend told me about is a very simple one, and that usually just consists of wearing jeans, boots and a black T -shirt printed with a music band of the appropriate persuasion. Simple, but it gets the job done. • 
Well, I would like to try my hand at being full of angst and so goth-like. Actually I got this at a website that shows you how to be a goth and create angst for yourself with the Angst-o-Matic. Go ahead and try it at http://www.scenario.com/circuslgothnicity/inde x.html. This is what I happened to get: 
Oh woe, SpiderTeo of the Grave. 
Autumn changes into the mournful dawning . of cancer. With every change, silent souls will suffer. We will hear their songs in time, as each is overcome with rage. And if the dark­ness prevails, the spider will stalk and show us the edge. We will see the black blade, guiding us through these barren shadows. 
Look for the soul. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TonAv's STAff 
News Scene Derek Betcher Michelle Barton Molly Nikolas Finn Pressly 
Graphics Sports 
Ken Kearney Brian Kessler Kerry Smith 
Lab Tech Viewpoint 
Liz Lang Dan McDonough 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe A!.sociared Press. All reproduction right~ are reserved. 

PRINCETON, N.J. 
one the university made last year 
With a few keystrokes from an not as a reaction to any increase in office in Stanhope Hall last Monday, crime, but rather as a proactive nearly 600 doors on campus were measure for which the technology locked for the evening. Unlike any had been available. other night, however, the doors Barry Weiser, Public Safety's would not spring unlocked at 7 a.m. crime prevention specialist, said the next morning. activating 24-hour locks came down 
Nor are they to be opened any to one question: Why not'? time in the near future. Following in "During the day, there's so much the footsteps of schools such as Yale activity that it's relatively easy to and Penn, the university has adopt­see your buddy coming across the ed 24-hour locks for all dorms. now have to become each student's courtyard and to come in with him," 
As a result, sights and sounds that constant companion, a change that Weiser said, explaining that the had been the sole reserve of campus has not sat well with some. inconvenience to students is mini­nightlife -students climbing in "I think it's a pain in the butt. I mal. first-floor windows, Domino's Pizza don't always have my prox card," Though there had been concerns deliverymen pleading desperately said Margaret Betts '99. "It's really about what would happen to those for someone to hold the door, and safe around here. I'm sure (24-hour who need access to dorms to do the short, shrill beep that is unmis­locks) do increase safety, but I don't their jobs -such as custodians and takably a proximity card connecting know that there's a need to increase parcel deliverymen -Weiser said with a prox box -are now ubiqui­safety. If you lock your door, you they have been issued either perma­tous during daylight hours as well. should be safe." nent or temporary cards. 
Most significantly for undergradu­Public Safety disagrees. The deci­Still, many students are unbowed ates, however, is that prox cards sion to convert to full-time locks was in their criticism of the new regime. 
• ROSE-HULMAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY 
Homemade bomb explodes, kills one 
TERRE HAUTE, Ind. 
A Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology student is facing felony charges and a visiting Caltech friend is dead after a homemade bomb detonated on the institute's campus. No others were injured by the blast. Police say two men built two explosives in a Skinner Hall room and then tried to detonate one in some nearby woods Sunday afternoon. Police have questioned Rose-Hulman student Matthew Roesle, 19, of Severna Park, Md., and booked him at Vigo County Jail in connection with the blast. Terre Haute Police Capt. Kevin Mayes said it appeared that Roesle and three visitors from a California university dropped the device inside a can and were planning to drop the can into a pond when the bomb exploded about 2 p.m. "It looks like the device went off prematurely," Mayes said. "They were attempting to control it." Hoesle faces charges of possession and manufacturing of an explosive device. a class-C felony, Mayes said. 
• HARvtum UNIVERSiTY 
Mandela awarded honorary degree 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 
Before a crowd of 25,000 that stretched from the steps of Memorial Church to the stone columns of Widener Library, Nelson Mandela called for continued efforts to narrow the gap between the rich and the poor in coun­tries around the world. Mandela, the president of South Africa, received an honorary doctorate of law from Harvard at a rare ceremony conducted Friday afternoon. 'To join George Washington and Winston Churchill as the other recipients of such an award conferred at a specially convened convocation ... holds great symbolic signifi­cance," Mandela said. "The name of an African is now added to those two illustrious leaders of the Western world." Flanked by some of the most renowned scholars of Africa and Afro-American studies, standing at a podi­um adorned with white and crimson roses, Mandela praised Harvard's commitment to studying the African continent. 
• UNIVERSITY OF OKLAHOMA 

Former athletic director sues school 
NOHMAN, Okla. 
Jerry Pettibone, former OU associate athletic director, 
filed a lawsuit Friday accusing OU of breach of contract and 
asking for more than $10,000 in damages. Pettibone was 
fired by OU on March 10, 1998. Steve Owens, who was ath­
letic director at the time, said in a statement that Pettibone 
and eight other .employees were !ired or asked to resign 
because of a plan to make the department more cost-effec­
tive. Pettibone's lawsuit claims this reason "was a sham and 
pretext" and that he was really fired because Owens and 
others, including football head coaeh John Blake, thought he 
was disloyal. The lawsuit claims that Owens first contacted 
Pettibone in March 1996 and asked if he would be interested 
in replacing Donnie Duncan, who had just resigned, as ath­
letic director at OU. Pettibone, who was then serving as 
head football coach at Oregon State University, told Owens 
he had commitments to Oregon State but that he was inter­
ested in working for OU in the future. 
• SWARTHMORE COLLEGE 

Endowment drops nearly $100 million 
SWAHTIIMOHE, Penn. 
Not many businesses can absorb $100 million in losses 
and blow it off as a bad month, but Swarthmore College 
has done just that. At the stock markets peak in July, the 
endowment almost reached $900 million, said Suzanne 
Welsh, treasurer. However, recent estimates place the 
endowment at approximately $800 million. The endow­
ment was hit hard this month due to the drops in the 
stock market caused by the political and economic insta­
bility in Russia. Since the end of the summer, the Dow 
Jones industrial average has dropped from 9000 to its 
present value of approximately 8000. "Our stocks have 
declined similarily to the market," said Welsh. "We had a 
6 percent position in emerging markets stocks, which has 
declined considerably since last year at this time. This 
was the area of the endowment that was hardest hit." 
Welsh dismisses the idea that the volatility of the stock 
market makes it an unsafe investment. 

• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather• forecast for daytime conditiom and high temperatures 
/'·····································BH 

L 
Tuesday ~ 67 50 Wednesday~ 65 44 Thursday ~' 74 50 Friday ~ 64 52 Saturday .~ 65 45 
)...)~ ....'\~·-~ ....../ \./ 

Atlanta 79 58 Columbus 73 54 Indianapolis 76 56 
Baltimore 78 55 Dallas 86 67 Los Angeles 77 59 
Baton Rouge84 64 Denver 46 34 Miami 85 77 
Q,Q,~pQ.Q (f ~ u 
Chicago 68 59 Honolulu 90 75 New York 70 60 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 

. . ·.......... ·­

L__________________________ ------­
Tuesday, September 22, 1998 
The Observer· CAMPU-=-S-=N'--'-=E:__:W__:___=.S__________________.!..._Pa~gc_e..:__3 
• .'iAINT MARY'S STUDENT GOVERNMENT 


Frosh elections set for Thursday 
Nobln Family Dining !lull. get our feet wet." Voting hours aro at breakfast Amy llubbs and Kim l'its1:h
Eight tickets 
from 7::~0 to 9:30 a.m., at plan to create a strong sense lunch from 11 a.m. to I p.m. of community among tho 
and. bncause of Twilight freshmon women. as suggost­Tailgatn, outside at dinner od in their slogan, "We are bntwetm 4:30 and CJ:30 p.m .. woman, hoar us roar."
general voting l'rosidtmtial running matos C.C. Cronley and Liz Ktdly Loonard and MPghan Kocourek said they want to 
prepare for 
By MEGHAN DONAHUE 
Meyor hopn to improve rda­unify the freshman elass with 
Nt•ws Writer 
tions bPtwoon Saint Mary's intermural hall sports. In the and Notn1 Dame, unify tho light of class unity and sue­
Thn racn is on and tlw run­four classes, provido more cess, tho pair say. "Sometimes IH~rs an• moving fast. 
participation activities and a it takes a little more to be a
Thn frnshman dass nleclions bettf·w sensn of community in champion."
hit full stride this w«wk as can tho ft·nshman dass itself. Connie Williams and Muffybn told from tiw nwdli'V of col­
Their slogan is, "It's our Grant have the desire to 
o r f ul p() s t (' r s d is p 11~ yp d i n 
futuro, wn'll be there, will emphasize community and 
l.dvl an II all. tlw dining hall, 
you'?" want to promote class unity.
llaggar Col111gn Cnntpr and 
Callie Kuhen and Erin Lauren O'Neil and Colleen
othl'r spots around 1:ampus. 
Wnldon will-investigate ways Hal"tBr said they hopn toCampaigning for presid11nt, 
to donato nxtra food from tho appnal to all freshmen using
virl' prnsident and I:~ al. large 
dining hall to charity. They retreats, volunteel'ism andpositions bngan Sunday at arn also aiming to unito thn movie nights to unify the 
noon. 
freshman class. TIHlir new elass. ThPir motto is, "Girls
l·:lnctions will b11 hosted on idnus fit right along with thnir just wanna have fun!" 
Thursday, Snpt. 24. in the saying, "We're not afraid to Dana Mangnuson and 
Every Wednesday 8 to 10:45 pm Learn tire latest d Le-s. Danc4, Party, DJ .• Dt.t":U 
A~is 
!' 
/)till tf;'£y's First & Main, X;l · 
·•' 

Ilillary Chapin plan to increase class enthusiasm with freshman activitiPs. "Thumbs up from Tom Cruise," they said. 
Katie O'Connell and Michelle Nagle plan on creating a big sister program, a lonesome trne for homesick friends and activities to unify the fresh­man elass. 
"We're the ones who are going to make your freshman year the best ever," they said. 
After a presidPnt and run­ning mate have been elected, they will appliint a treasurer and secretary from submitted applications. The thirteen at largo positions will also be decided by the president and viee president at that time. 







treet 

• SECURITY BEAT 
Bikes set to hit auction block tonight 
Observer Staff Report 
lost or abandoned on campus and recovered by securityAt tonight's auction in otlieers. Stepan Center. Notre Dame 
Several bieyeles will to be students could get good deals 
auctionnd, as well as calcula­on anything from bicycles to 
tors. watches, stereo equip­stereos -either by purchas­
ment and other miscellaneous ing someone else's, or vying il.tims. 
to buy back their own. The auction is open to the The auction, sponsored by 
public, with the doors opening Notre Dame Seeurity/Police, is at 6:30 p.m. and the bidding 
th1~ department's ehance to will begin at 7 p.m. There is sell property that has been 
no charge for admission. 
Bayer exec named to head ND payroll 
Special to The Observer 
a nee function within the pay­roll area in conjunction with Paul Bultinck has been 
thn University tax din'lctor, and appointed manager of payroll 
researching and resolving pay­services at the University. 
roll accounting issues. As payroll manager, Bultinek 
Prior to joining the is responsible for managing as 
University, Bultinek serv11d as aspects of the payroll services 
payroll manager with Bayer oflke, ineluding payroll opera­
Corporation, a Pittsburgh­tions, training, coordination of 
. based pharmaceutical manu­related functions with the 
facturer. lie also held other department of human 
accounting positions during his resources and student employ­tenure with Bayer, which 
ment, communication of pay­began in 1972. Bultinck also roll issues in the University 
spent two years as senior cost community and participation accountant with Whirlpool on various University commit­Corporation in St. Josnph, tees. 
Mieh. Bultinek's other responsibili­
Bultinck is a 1969 graduatn ties inelude assisting in manag­
of Tri-State University in ing the University's tax compli-Angola, Ind. 

orum 
Your opportunity to learn more about: 
•Investment Banking •Asset Management 
• Commercial Banking • Insurance 
• Careers for Business and Non-Business Majors 
Wednesday, October 7th, 1998 College of Business Administration 3:00 -10:00 p.m. 
Open to all Students 

Dinner Tickets $5 On Sale: September 28th-October 2"d 
COBA 102 and O'Shaughnessy 
Advance Purchase Necessary 



For more information call: Professor John Affieck-Graves at 631-6370 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, September 22, 1998 

Art 
continued from page 1 
Presenting the problem artists face in representing time by space, Deane suggest­ed that the use of light was one way to achieve a kind of rela­tionship between the two con­cepts. 
"It is possible both in paint­ing and in literature to repre­sent the future," Deane said. 
In the West painting, the light that shines on the central char­acter is brighter than that which would be possible to shine through the clouded win­dow in the corner of the por­trait. The source seems to emi­nate from the base of the pic­ture, taking on an apocalyptic or unknown quality, he contin­ued. 
"When apocalyptic light enters the painting, then the painting creates a moment when time and eternity inter­sect," Deane said. 
That light also creates the distinction between authority and immersion in a setting. Deane presented the example of a documentary film to illus­trate the difference between the two. He noted that when a local witness -one who is immersed in a situation·-is interviewed, their testimony is of limited impact. When the shot broadens out and the voice of the narrator begins, however, their speech is taken as omnipotent. 
Deane read a passage in which the young boy watched as his father revealed a painful secret to his sons. 
"What I was trying to do there was ... [that] as he told it he would see the alterations of the face and the boy would be trying to control the alterations of his own face," Deane explained. 
"Deliberately trying to place the mother or father in a light in oblique manner," Deane set the structure of this narrative to uncover something instant by instant. 
"The problem is to find some way of exhibiting the detail with such force and intensity that it is believable, but not with such force that there is no hope," Deane said. 
"Like a lot of Irish people. and Irish writers, I've learned a lot about that from the great writer, Joyce," he continued. "In Joyce the present is avail­able to us with such force that it can not be recruited into the past or the future. 
"Every tiny detail actually can be recruited into a master narrative," Deane said, explaining that every scene in Joyce's writing is specific to that exact point in time and could not be subsituted into other points in the novel. 
Seemingly holding Joyce's use of time and space in a nar­rative as a model, Deane said, "If you are sufficiently lucky to find that moment ... to find that face lit ... then you've created something that has this other dimension." 
Referring to his novel, Deane said, "It is when it begins to become incoherent that its at its best," said Deane. "I would be disappointed if someone could always tell me in the story, from where the light was coming." 


Mating 
continued from page 1 
wisdom. 
"There comes a time when you must throw in the towel, forgive yourself for things you have done in the past and move on with your life,'-' she summarized. "You give a rela­tionship your best shot and if it's not good enough for your partner, give up. Take your best shot back and give it to someone else." 
If nothing else is gained from her lecture, Gootblat said she wanted her audiences to go away with that information. 
"You can't get anybody to do anything that they don't want to. You can only change your self and your perceptions of circumstances," Gootblat said, regarding the differences between men and women. She then spent part of her lecture considering the differences in communications styles between the sexes. 
Sometimes men and women seem to speak a different lan­guage, and this is because they are different, according to Gootblat. Communication is made much easier if you read between the lines and try to understand each other, she continued. 
''Get to know yourself l'irst before you surrender yourself to someone else. That is great sex," said Gootb1at. This is the view of the woman with all the relationship answers on the topic of sex, she noted. 
Represent Notre Dame as a High School Ambassador 
Ifyou are interested in representing Notre Dame at your high school over fall break, you will need to attend an information session on Tuesday, September 22 or Wednesday, September 23 at 7:30pm in 155 DeBartolo. 
QuestiorJs: E-mail Susan at joyce.2@nd.edu 
Thank you! The Admissions Office 
Web 
continued from page 1 
Aikins. The three have strong ties to the University: Drevs is an adjunct associate professor of marketing, Berrettini is an alumnus and Aikins held a fac­ulty position at Notre Dame as well. 

Read The Observer's World & Nation section on page five every day to keep abreast of major news events. 




We're Here For You 
Have lunch or breaks at one ofthese convenient locations 
COBA 

Common Stock Sandwich Co. Lower level Open 7:00a.m. -3:00p.m. 
O'Shaughnessy 
Waddicks First floor Open 7:00a.m. -5:00p.m. 

Bond Hall 

-Cafe Poche First floor Open-8:00a.m.-2:00p.m. 
Serving delicious soup, sandwiches, daily hot lunch specials, gourmet coffee, freshly-baked pastries, yogurt, soda, juices, fresh fruit 
Open Monday -Friday to all staff, students, faculty .and visitors 


n 
Tuesday, September 22, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 

Police wrestle with a civilian protestor Monday as politcally motivated riots enflamed the streets of Kuala Lumpur. 



Police, citizens collide in protest 

Grand jury tapes air across the globe 
S&P 500: 

Composite I 023.89 Volume:
7933.25 

+.HlO 607,506,140 
VOLUME LEADERS 

nUa:U'4tn: nr~:~;ru '~t S'll4t:Uir I 'id.l~ I'UirE 
Congo rebels seize villages 

COMA 
HPIH•ls lighting to oust l'rPsidnnt l.aur()nt Kahila said Monday tlwy had gainml control of SI'VI'ral morl' towns, and dt>nind daims that govPrllmPnt forTI's wPrP bParing down on tlwir strongholds. lkbPls said tlwy had rapllii"Pd tlw nastPrn town of Kamituga rwar a stralPgir gowrnnwnt air hasP on Friday ai"IPr taking Matila, also in tlw Past, and tlw nortlwastPrn town of lsiro on Thursday. Tlw rlaims rould not bn indnpnndnntly con­11rmPd.Wiwn thP rPiwllion brokn out snv()n WPPks ago. thP rdwls madP rapid advances from thPir nastPrll basn and nvPn managed to rapturP kny baSI'S in thn far wnst of the vastWPst African country. Hut tlwy have IH'Pil drivPn bark in rPcPnt wneks since Angola. Zimhabwn and Namibia PntPrPd the fray to lwlp Kabila. 
Discovery readies for Glenn 
CAl'I\ CAN/\VEHAL 
NASA movPd spar.!' shuttiP Discovery to tlw launch pad today in pn~paration for John c;!Pnn's rmu:h anticipatPd rnturn to orbit. l>iseovnry is sdwdulnd to blast ofT Ort. 29 on a nirw-day seinncn mission that will feature mPdical nxpnrinwnts ronducted by (;Jenn. c;Jpnn. 77. was tlw first Amerkan to orbit the l:arth whl'n lw rorkPtnd away 36 years ago.Tiw four-mill' trip from the Vehicle AssPmhly Building to the pad took six hours.l>iscovnry last soarnd in June on NASA's final dockingmission with the Hussian spar.n station Mir. 
U.N. orders speedy delivery 
BAGHDAD 
Tlw Unitml Nations has spml up the deliv­HY of mrHiicinn and mPdieal supplies bought by Iraq, U.N. llumanitarian Coordinator Dnnnis llalliday said Monday. Thn latest supplies arrived in Iraq on Saturday. tlm~e months aftr~r being ordered. according to llalliday's spokesman, Erie Fait. Nearly thrnn years ago, the process had taken six months. "Given the complexi­ty of the procnss. this shows a significant spnod-up in delivering items in thn health soctor," llalliday said. Iraq has received $:H1(1 million worth of nwdicinn and medical supplins since tho oil-for-food program IJ!'gan in DecPmbnr 11J1H1, Fait said. The program is an nxeoption to sanctions imposod aftPr Iraq's IIJIJO invasion of Kuwait. which lnd to tlw Gull' War. It allows Iraq to soli limited amounts of oil to buy humanitarian goods.The shipment that arrived Saturday was part of an order for mndieinn. vitamins and mndieal supplies !'rom a Malaysian company. 
• MALAYSIA 


where people rioted sponta­neously during protests that led to the downfall of President Suharto in May. 
But Anwar has been leading an increasingly vocal opposition to the 72­year-old prime minister since Sept. 2, when Mahathir fired the man he once had designated his successor. 
Expecting to be arrestr)d any moment, Anwar gave fiery speeches and incited crowds to shout "Mahathir out!" and "Long live Anwar." Such attacks on the dignity and authority of the prime minister were unheard of. 
The sight of 35,000 peo­ple, punching the air with their fists, waving banners and shouting "Reform!" ata downtown square on Sunday may have been the last straw. 
Two hours later, a 

masked team of special agents broke down Anwar's front door. Federal police said Anwar was placed under indefinite detention as a security risk. 
A human rights group, Suaram, said 34 had been arrested on the streets Monday. Anwar and five allies were detained under the Internal Security Act, a law thatallows indefinite imprisonment without charges or trial for those deemed a threat to national security. 
The unrost threatened to overshadow the visit by the­queen and her festive dos­ing of the Commonwealth Games, which feature ath­letes from countries that once belonged to the British Empire.By Monday night, Mahathir had dedared that the Games were such a suc­cess he would make Sept. 28 a national holiday. 
AssOCIATED PRESS 
KUALA LUMPUR 
Ignoring a visit by the British queen, thousands of supporters of Malaysia's ousted deputy premier dashed Monday with police trying to end two weeks of protest -the biggest out­pouring of dissent during Mahathir Mohamad's 17­ycar rule. 
After calling on army reservists and riot police to quell the unrest that reflect­ed a pitched battle for power in this Muslim nation, Prime Minister Mahathir joined Queen Elizabeth II at the finale of the Commonwealth Games. 
The arrest of former Deputy Prime Minister Anwar Ibrahim added a volatile clement to Malaysia's political and eco­nomic troubles. 
With police helicopters 

buzzing overhead, more than 1,000 officers chased mobs of protesters down side streets and blocked roads in an effort to contain angry demonstrators. 
Several thousand more demonstrators took to the streets in other parts of the capital, where they were chased by riot police. Reporters saw police detaining at least a dozen protesters. 
Anwar, tossed out of the government earlier this month,was expected to face charges of sexual miscon­duct and disturbing the public order. lie has vehe­mently denied the charges, saying they were cooked up by Mahathir. 
As with many other Asian nations, Malaysia is strug­gling with a worsening economy. But those frustra­tions haven't mounted to the levels in Indonesia. 
AssociATED PRESS 
WASHINGTON 
By turns humble and defiant, President Clinton tussled with prose­cutors over "the truth of my relation­ship" with Monica Lewinsky in grand jury testimony released Monday by Congress and broadcast unedited across a broad spe.ctrum of American television. 
"It's an embarrassing and person­ally painful thing,'' Clinton said in testimony recorded in secret a month ago and now laid bare to the nation. 
The videotape and 3,183 pages of printed material wereprovided by Independent Counsel Kenneth Starr 

to augment his report to the House. H.epublicans in Congress votedto release the material as a prelude to a possible impeachment inquiry. 
The public's main focus was on the videotape of Clinton's Aug. 17 appearance before a federal grand jury investigating whether Clinton committed perjury or took other steps to cover up his relationship with Ms. Lewinsky, the former White House intern. 
"It's no secret to anybody that I hoped that this relationship would never become public," Clinton declared of the espoused that has transfixed American politics and threatened his presidency. 
While the president repeatedly brushed aside questionsabout their 
sexual relationship, Ms. Lewinsky described them to the grand jury in sometimes-reluctant detail. ''I've always felt that he was sort of my sexual soulmate," she testified in hm summertime appearance before the grand jury. Sen. Charhls Grnssley, R­Iowa, minimized the day's (JVonts. 
"I don't expect a meaningful impaet on the public's overall impression of the presidtmt or the process that's under way," he said. "Based on the expectations built up by both sid~1s, the broadcast !'ailed to register on the Hichter scale." 
Presidential spokesman Mike McCurry said it "should now btl dear to everyone" that "the president's conduct does not rise to the level of an impeachable offense." 
Pf.LI. <"0!\.1/'U I'ER t.ISCllSY.IiTE.MS  IJF.I.I. csco  +.t5b +1.95  +2.0625 +l.lli7S  59.9:175 62.25  
IRAVF.I.F.RS liROUI'  J"RV  -\ . .it)  ·0.5625  .19.625  
MIUHlSllFf CORI'  MSFI"  +2 ..\7  +2.5000  107.B75  
1'1111.11' MORRIS CO  ~Hl  +I.RQ  +0.8750  H.l25  
MLI WORI.IJCOM INC  WCOM  +2.15  +!.(}{)(}{)  47.625  
.\CUM CORP  C(lM~  +5..l4  +1.6250  :12.0625  
INTF.I.CORP  lNTC  +1.96  +1.6250  84.625  
ORACLF. COR I'  ORCl.  +2 ..in  +0.6250  27.8125  
liii'Dilt!\Nfl SUO I  \I'Y  .1),()()  -0.0625  102.0JI.i  

page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, September 22, 1998 



+Campus Ministry This Week + 

Cr 




(~
'-. 

lCl H•hr&l\ l.lbnry. 
~31-?'&GQ 
lU l!l.tJin HAll: .l1·5h2 llt~tlll\'11 Otllcl'ti fi3\cMfl! 
Wtll l"ag• fiHr:tlwww.nlt d~t/··m1J'lhtey 

Thgsday. September 22, 7:00·8;30 pro, B1din Hill Chapel Campus Bible Study 
Wednesda~ Scptemb£r 23, 8:00 pn:L Knights Qf Columbus f;lasempp t 
Knights of Columbus 1998 Fall Lecture Series: 
Guarding the Faith (Ad Tuenda1n Fide11t) 
Rev. Edward O'Connor, C.S.C Emeritus Faculty/ Theology 
Thursda~ Si_Qtember 24. 6:15-7:00 ~m, Hesbur&h LibratY,Lcuntte Emmaus Information Session 
Sunday, September 27. noon·S pm. St. Joe Hall Freshman Retreat #18 Team Retreat 
Freshman Retreat 118 (October 9·10) Sign-Up MQnda)4 October 5 Deadline 
1.03 Hesbursh Librarjj 112 Badin Hall, or see ¥QYt Rector 
Targeted Derma: Carn.,ll, Cavanaugh~ Dillnn, L~wi~, McGlinn, Pangb<.1n1, Si~gfritd, Sort!'\, Zt\hm 
Exposition of the Blessed Sacrament Monday. 11;30 pm until Tuesday. 10:00 pm.. St. Paul's Chaptl. Fisher Hall Eridays4 12:00 noon until 4;45 pro_, Ladx Chapel. B;asilic:a t2i.the Saqed Heart 

Notre Dame Celebration Choir Rehearsals 
Wednesdays. 8:00·9:30 pro. Earth/Sc;ience, Rm. 102 1'he newest choir on campus~ offE'r& a !ipiritu"L diverse musiC'al alternative to thnH wh'' w~uld Hke to participate in the musi' m:nlstry at Nl1tre Dame, drawing from a rich vari~ty of contemporary, folk~ goJpel, T"ize prayer and tr~didonal sa~!'ed music. For deti.iila, co11tnct Kitren Schneidcr·Kirner, 631·9326. 

Student Volunteers needed at University Village Married Student Housing: 
The Parents' Time-Out Cooperative is looking for a few studenfft to nssrst with chi:d care (ages 1·4} on MondAys bet-wt't'l'l 9:00-ll :30 a.m. in the Vtllage Community Center. Duties will include organizhtg games, aasistir.g with art" i\t'\d crnfh 1\ctivi· 
til'~<, "ncl hclp!ng C"Jut during annck Hrnc Jlle•''e C\)l'\ti\c:t Alice ~t 273¥141 i' tn· Hnc· Jcon Fit 634·4632. 
------~~~-------"""
r-----~--~--------------------------.-·--------------~----------------------------­
Tuesday, September 22, 1998 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 7 

Cable magnate OKs free ads 
Associated Pre~< 
SAN DIEGO 

Cable pioneer Bill Daniels is letting politicians run ads for free in Southern California, a move that ha.•.; been eyBd as a way to reduce skyrocketing campaign costs. 
Several experts said they knew of no precedent for the free political ads. which comes at a time when federal regula­tors arc considering mandat­ing frN' commercials for politi­cians. 
The ads began running Monday on Daniels Cablevision Inc. to residents of northern San Diego County and Desert I lot Spl'ings. 
Candidates for the 48th and 51st Congressional Districts in the San Diego-area and the 44th Congressional District in Desert Hot Springs can run dozens of free ads a week prior to the November election. 
"That's unprecedented," said Patrick Caddell, a former poll­ster for Jimmy Carter who is now a Hollywood producer. "H's something that I'm sure is going to upset a lot of broad­casters who say 'you can't a.flord to do this."' 
Some stations fear that the federal government may even­tually force them to broadcast free political ads, undermining a hefty source of election-year revenue. 
President Clinton has pro­posed requiring broadcasters to offer free or discounted TV time for political ads to reduce eampaign cosl•t 
"While these proposals are out there, they are not in any imminent danger. ifyou will, of being adopted," said Paul Taylor, executive director of the Alliance for Better Campaigns. 
Daniels, 78, sometimes called the father of cable tele­vision, is largely credited l'or bringing cable technology into widespread use. The World War II naval fighter pilot and former New Mexico Golden Gloves boxing champion is a lifelong Republican, but has supported candidates from several parties. 
Daniels spokesman Phil Urbina said neither Daniels nor his company have any edi­torial control over the adver­tisements, which will total about $70,000 worth of air time. 

Farmers block U.S.-Canada border 
Associated Press 
SWEETGHASS. Mont. 

Farnwrs and randwrs, angry about agricultun1 and tradn poli­ri«JS Llwy say ar11 dPstroying tlwir livPiihood, staged a four­hour blot~kadP Monday to kenp tru«'ks «~arrying Canadian farm produl'ts from crossing tlw U.S. bordnr. 
St>vnral hundn1d pPopltl began flw blorkadn afler a rally at this windswtlpt border crossing. 
SpPak11rs dm1ouncNI policies thPy said allowPd cheap Canadian grain and cattl«l to flood U.S. rnarknts and undercut L!.S. farm prices. Signs road: "SavP our jobs. savP our farms." 
"Our market just keeps slip­ping away from us," said rally organizer Hon Jensen of Sweetgrass. "We just can't afford to produce a bushel of grain for $2. The federal govern­ment says it costs us $5.54 to produce it. 
Thern was no viohmce in the protest. and no truckers attempted to break through. Blockade organizers met with 
U.S. Customs officials. who agn~ed as a matter of safety to suggest that Canadian drivers park tlwir rigs. 
Protesters iel't one lane of tho Lwo-lam1 highway into Montana opnn. allowing other vehicles to pass through. The rally took place as Montana stepped up its enforcement of regulations imposed on trucks transporting farm commodities from Canada. The governor 
said last week that starting today. Montana officials would accelerate their checks for com­pliance with regulations dealing with truck weight, livestock health and more. 
Similar trade tensions led South Dakota state authorities to halt trucks carrying Canadian grain and livestock to make sure drivers had paperwork to show their cargoes were free of dis­ease. Some trucks were tumed back. North Dakota officials didn't send anyone. 



VA Judge upholds right to die decision 
Associated Press sister. "He's not going to get bet­ter." MANASSAS, Va. "Are you God?" mother Joan 
A comatose man whose family Finn said to her daughter. is fighting over whether he Joan Finn said she sees her should be allowed to die can be son nearly every day and that he removed from the feeding tubes holds her hand and reacts when that keep him aliVe even though she asks him qw~stions. a nurse claims he said "hi," a "I just can't say OK, this is it, judge ruled we'll put you in the grave," Mrs. 
Monday. Finn said. "Once they put you in 
Judge Frank A. Hoss Jr. the grave, there's nothing you upheld his earlier order allowing can do." Hugh Finn's wife to remove the The hearing was called after a feeding tubes, but nurse who visit­he gave oppo­ed Finn at a nents nine days nursing home
'ARE YOU GOD?'
to appeal to the 
Virginia Supreme Court, which they said they intend­ed to do. 
"I do not believe it advances any­thing new that I haven't heard," Hoss said of the nurse's claim, which was contained in an affi­davit. 
Finn, 44, a former TV anchor­man, has been unable to decide his own fate since a 1995 car crash in Louisville, Ky. Doctors said he is in a persistent vegeta­tive state and has little to no chance of recovering. 
Finn's wife and legal guardian, Michele Finn, said her husband never wanted to live in such a condition. She has been trying to end his reedings, but other fami­ly members are lighting her. 
In the courtroom before the hearing, Finn's mother and sis­ter argued loudly. 
"Why are we having this appeal?" said Karen Finn, his said he told her 
"hi" when she 
greeted him. 
She said she 

JOAN FINN saw him smooth 
his hair with his 
hand, although 

he did not respond to other questions she asked. 
Gregory Murphy, an attorney for Michele Finn, said Finn does not really react but simply makes guttural noises and movemenl'i. 
"If you are looking to hear something, it may be what you want to hear," Murphy told the judge. 
Joseph McGuire, attorney for Finn's family, said that even one correct reaction is all that is needed and asked for a rehear­ing of the ease. 
"It's inconvenient that Hugh said "hi," but he did," McGuire said. "If he comes out of this .001 percent of the time, he's not in a persistent vegetative state, he's a human being." 

Tuesday, September 22, 1998
page 8 The Observer • NEWS 


Albright, Ivanov meet in good spirits 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Secretary of State Madeleine Albright and new Russia Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov said Monday the U.S.-Russian 
relationship will continue smoothly despite the changing government in Moscow. 
Albright, who had an 


e x c e II e n t Albright relationship with Yevgeny Primkov, the for­mer foreign minister who's now prime minister, said she has a rapport with Ivanov and knew him when she was U.S. ambas­sador to the United Nations in the early 1990s. 
"We are known to each other," Albright said at a joint news conference with Ivanov before their first meeting since Ivanov was named foreign min­ister this summer."And we'll get to know each other even better." 
Ivanov, who was often fre­quent meetings with Albright, said he would continue talking frankly with the secretary of state. 
"I look forward to conducting discussions with, Secretary of State Albright in the same con­structive spirit that was charac­teristic of her discussions with my predecessor."lvanov said through a translator. Albright, he said, has a "very good reputation in, Russia" as a "very credible political fig­ure," a compliment that brought a smile to Albright's face. 
Ivanov stressed that even 
though Hussia is in the midst of 
major change -with a new 
government still being formed 
by President Boris Yeltsin to 
counter financial problems ­
diplomatic relations will stay 
steady." 
Helations with the United 
States are viewed by Hussia in 
a special light and is one of the 
priorities in our foreign poli­
cy," Ivanov said. "And we 
intend to continue developing 
those relations based on the 
principles of people partner­
ship." 
Ivanov said the new govern­
ment will be formed this 
weekand hold its first Cabinet 
session Thursday. 
President Clinton and Yeltsin 
held their last summit just 
three weeks ago with the presi-
Help a friend celebrate their birthday with an ad in The Observer. 
Call 1-6900 for rates. 
dent urging the Russia leader to not abandon free market reforms. 
Albright refused to comment on Moscow's latest moves, including issuing $55 million in new rubles on Monday, or the continuing vacancies in key Cabinet posts 
"It's probably not appropriate to comment on what they're doing until they have their gov­ernment formed," she said. "We are waiting." 
Over dinner, Albright and Ivanov were to discuss Russia's economy, fighting in Kosovo, troubles in Iraq and Iran's mis­sile proliferation. Moscow and Washington often don't see eye to eye on those issues. 
But Albright said the differ­ences don't disrupt the U.S. relationship with its former Cold War-era foe. 
"As I saw with Mr. Primakov, issues that we agree on wewill be able to work together posi­tively and on the ones we don't, we will manage the problems," she said. 
Cilf~oplf), including 12 Americans. , wbo was arrested as d to enter Pakistan 
·travel documents, . . ges of murder, conspiracy and con­
!ipiracy to. use weapons of tnass destruction. Sachs said Odeh acknowl­!E ~dges membership in a group 
called al Qaida, which U.S. ........ ~ffici~ls have said is part of "'ihin Laden's terrorist net­
work. );;t;' Bl1t Odeh told Sachs that . the organization is devoted to 
"aiding fellow Muslims, not · · ·· ··Americans/' "He said it's against his tf:lligio~ to kill unarmed civil· ians," said Sachs. 
·· Sachs said his client does 'not know Mohamed Rashed Daoud Al-Owhali, the other susp(lct in the attack who is being detained in New York awaiting trial. Sachs said his 
fl~~ti~c~'SriJf tJo,S:;·)'f·hf'cliient does not know who is respo-nsible for the deadly bombings. 
Tricia Chee 
• began building her future in 1995 within GE's Technical Leadership Program. Today, she's an Account Manager at GE Power Systems. Please Join Us 
at College of 
Engineering 
Industry Day 
Sept. 23, 1998 
10:00 am -4:00pm Fitzgerald Hall 
Please confirm dates & limes with your Career Placement Offue for any last minute changes. 

www.gecareers.com 
• 

We bring good things to life. 


GE Aircraft E11gines GE Appliances GE Capital Services GE Corporate Research m1d Oevefopment GE l11dustria/ Systems GE Information Services GE Lighting GE Modica/ Systems GE Plastics 
An EqtMI Oppnnunily Employer 
GE Power Systems GE Supply GE Transportatioll Systems NBC 
Infinite opportunities. Dynamic careers. 

You have a future here. 

·----~----------------~------~--~ 
Tuesday, September 22, 19_98 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
• VATICAN CITY

World leaders meet at UN opening meeting 
Sainthood 

Philosophy 101: Logic & Theory What's the rneanlng of this ad? Before you ponder the fundamental principle of this logical question, consider this: Fazoli's features 12 menu items priced under $4, including Ravioli, Fettuccine Alfredo and Spaghetti. Meaning, in theory, you won't need a student loan to eat here. Rea] ]taJi an. Real Fast,.. 52770 US Route 33N, 277-4008, South Bend 317 W. McKinley, 255-2551, Mishawaka 1248 Nappanee Street, 262-9873, Elkhart  of canonization can begin. "I think it is necessary to fol­low the normal way," thn Pop1~ said at the time. Vatican spokesman Joaquin Navarro-Valls said Thursday the pope's position is unchanged, despite growing ealls from India ­whenl nuns have begun collecting support­ing evidence of miracles ­and elsewhere for an exception. "He prefers to apply to every­one the same rules," Navarro­Valls said.  
Are·you willing to speak out about sexual assault or rape? Do you have a story to share? Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination would like your help at the Take Back the Night March. Please call Lori at 284-5187. Thank you.  

Check out n1ore about the Sacrament of 

Arc '1"~~ ...~ b~ptizc" C~tl1"lic wl1" l1~s t1cvcr bern
... 
Cl)f1firn-tc~? 
Arc '1""' w""'"cri115 wl1ctl1er '1""' m~ei:> t" be (1)11fhrt.,Ci:> fl) get m~rrie~ it1 tl1e (~tl'\l)llc ChMrcl1? 

For more information about the Confirmation program, come to our first meeting: 
W"~''" '1"l-~ like t" prep~re f"r C"11firn1~n"t1 with "tl1er N"trc D~me srui:>rnts wh" ~re i:>e"ic~te" t" gr"wiHg iH tl1dr f~itl1? 
Sicgfric~ Chard on T~cs~a'1~ Sept. 2211~ at 7:00 rm 
Please contact Fr. John Conley, CSC or Katie Pytlak at 631-5242 or stop by the Badin Campus Ministry office with any questions. 
181 
(_AMPUS MINISTRY 

stock and currency markets have been battered by the eco­nomic turmoil that has seen investors fleeing Asia, Russia and other developing markets. 
Japan is hoping to regain its role as financial leader in the region by implementing "mea­sures of support" totaling about $43 billion -most of it in loans -to its neighbors, Japanese Prime Minister Keizo Obuchi said Monday. 
President Clinton pledged the United States would do more to eounter the f'inaneial turmoil, but he focused his address on the fight against terrorism N evidenced Monday in the unpreeedented security that greeted world leaders and will remain in place for the next two weeks. 
"Because we are blessed to be a wealthy nation with a powerful military and a world­wide presence active in pro­moting peace and security, we are often a target," Clinton said, referring to the Aug. 7 dual bombings on U.S. embassies in Nairobi, Kenya, and Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. 
"No one in this room, nor the people you represent, are immune," Clinton said. 
South African President Nelson Mandela focused on human rights abuses that affect millions of people around the world -particularly in Africa, where regional conflicts in Sudan, Congo and Angola threaten to spill over. 
"The very right to be human is denied every day to hundreds of millions of people" held hostage by conflict, nuclear ter­ror and brutal regimes, he told the audience in what was expected to be his last speech at the assembly. 
"Many are still unable to par­ticipate in the determination of the destiny of their family and to protect themselves from tyranny," said Mandela, whose own country freed itself from the oppression of apartheid only four years ago. 
Show your respect for 
Mother Nature and 
recycle this paper. 
IDUSt wait 


for Teresa 
The Associated Press 
VATICAN CITY 
Mother Teresa's chureh is planning lavish publie com­memorations for Saturday's l'irstanniversary of her dnath, including a ,.._..,.,.......__..,..........----, homage from Pope John Paul II, a memorial Mass in St. Peter's Basilica and 
a television '---~----' spectacular from the Vatican. 
The Homan Catholic Church's tributes­ineluding the Italian TV spm:ial from a Vatican hall draped in the blue and white of hnr saris -offer everything but tho speeded-up sainthood that her followers say the extraordinary nun of Calcutta deserves. 
Even for Mother Teresa, the Vatica.n made clear again Thursday, the mandatory five­year waiting period stands. 
"Rome has got its rules," sighed Calcutta Archbishop Ivan Dias, at the Vatican for Thursday's kick-off of the anniversary events. 
Mother Teresa died Sept. 5, 1997 in Calcutta, at age 87, after a life spent aiding the poor and wretched through her Missionaries of Charity order and other good works. 
Italian Cardinal Pio Laghi will preside at Saturday morning's memorial Mass in St. Peter's. 
Saturday night's television tribute will featun~ everyone from U.N. Seeretary-Genoral Kofi Annan and Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat to British actor Ben Kingsley and Italian singers and celebrities. 
The pope will open the pro­gram with remarks on the woman known in her time as a living saint. 
In October, John Paul quashed speculation that thfl church might expedite saint­hood for Mother Teresa. Hules signed by the pope himself in 1983 mandate a five-year wait after death before the process 
Mother Teresa 

The Amlcia1rd Press 
World leaders opened the (;1~n1~ral Assembly's annual dnhatl~ Monday by urging an intnrnational effort to rein in tlw Asian linandal crisis,....,...~-,...----, 
and calling for action against tPITOriSITl. 
B r i t i s h I' r i m e Minister Tony Blair ol'l'nred 
to host a high-.....____.___~_, lnvnl confer-ent:t~ in London this fall aimed at eliminating opportunities for tPrrorists to raise morwy. "EfTnctivn new nwasures, on 
an agreed international basis, warning that a few countries could make a real difference," alone cannot bail out nations Blair said. sufl'ering from the efl'ects of the 
Iranian President Mohammad Asian financial crisis. Khatami called for a universal "Experience teaches us that dialogue to promote pnace and inaction can have a high cost," 
' NOONE IN THIS ROOM, NOR THE PEOPLE YOU REPRESENT, ARE IMMUNE (FROM INTERNATIONAL TER­
RORISM).' 
PRHSlf)h'NT BILL CLINTON 

mul violtmce, including tl~rror­Luiz Felipe Lampreia said dur­
ism. ing the first day of the two­Brazil's foreign minister week speechmaking forum. launched tho 53rd session by In recent weeks, Brazil's 







VIEWPOINT 
• THE CoMMON Gooo 

Capitalism, the Free Market and the Difference between Them 
In my last column, I made the point that Catholic social teaching gives articulation to a perspective that does not fit squarely with either the social left or right. In the economic sphere, this has meant that the 


Todd David Whitmore 
social encyclicals present a view that is neither socialist nor capitalist. The point is important to make because in recent years the claim has been made by neo­conservative commentators-for instance, Michael Novak in Catholicism and the Spirit. ofCapitalism and Richard John Neuhaus in Doing Well and Doing Good-that John Paul II's 1991 encycli­cal Centesimus Annus endorses capital­ism such as that practiced in the United States, a capitalism promoted by Novak, Neuhaus and their colleague George Weigel. 
Their interpretation of the document turns on a specific paragraph, number 

42. The pope asks,"[CJan it be said that, after the failure of communism, capital­ism is the victorious social system, and that capitalism should be the goal of the countries now trying to rebuild their econ­omy and society?" He immediately replies, "The answer is obviously com­plex," and then proceeds to give a com­plex answer: "If by capitalism is meant an economic system which recognizes the fundamental and positive role of business, the market, private property and the resulting responsibility for the means of production, as well as free human creativ­ity in the economic sector, then the answer is certainly in the a!lirmative, even though it would perhaps be more appropriate to speak of a business econo­my, market economy or simply free econo­my. But if by capitalism is meant a system in which freedom in the economic sector 
is not circumscribed within a strong 
juridical framework which places it at the 
service of human freedom in its totality, 
and which sees it as a particular aspect of 
that freedom, the core of which is ethical 
and religious, then the reply is certainly 
negative" (emphases in text). 
The neo-conservatives were quick to 
draw on this paragraph to argue not only 
that the pope's thinking and their own are 
in accord, but-in no small act of hubris 
-also that the document demonstrated 
Novak's influence on John Paul. 
The root of the neo-conservative mis­
reading of John Paul is their propensity to 
collapse the pope's distinction between 
capitalism on the one hand and the free 
or market economy on the other, a dis­
tinction that the pope makes in paragraph 
42, and that is much clearer when we 
view his exposition of it in his encyclical of 
a decade earlier, Laborem Exercens. In 
this 1981 document, he defines the free or 
market economy as a market economy 
which is situated in a comprehensive soci­
ety such that there is recognition of the 
primacy of the whole person over simple 
material well-being and of the common 
good over individual interest. Capitalism, 
by definition, reverses the priorities. 
"Precisely this reversal of order, whatever 
the program or name under which it 
occurs, should rightly be called 'capital­
ism'" (paragraph seven). John Paul then 
continues this usage in Centesimus 
Annus, when answering the question of whether the collapse of communism in 1989 constitutes a victory for capitalism. "this is why when he speaks of an econo­
my that is "circumscribed within a strong 
judicial framework," he states that it is 
"more appropriate to speak of a business 
economy, market economy or simply free 
economy" rather than "capitalism." What 
is at stake is not merely semantics for 
John Paul, but a normative distinction 
that must be upheld if there is to be any 
clarity in economic thought from a moral 
perspective. 
The relationship between the juridically 
circumscribed market economy on the one hand and the priorities of the whole person over solely material well-being and of the common good over individual interest on the other is this: It is precisely when the market overruns its boundaries and invades other areas of social life that materialism and individualism become predominant. Drawing a term from Paul VI, John Paul II calls such a phenomenon, "the consumer society," which finds more in common with Marxism than Catholic ?Ocial teaching. The consumer society "seeks to defeat Marxism on the level of pure materialism by showing how a free market society can achieve a greater sat­isfaction of material human needs than communism, while equally excluding spir­itual values. In reality, while on the one hand it is true that this social model shows failure of Marxism to contribute to a humane and better society, on the other 

I
T IS PRECISELY WHEN THE MARKET OVERRUNS 
ITS BOUNDARIES AND 
INVADES OTHER AREAS OF 
SOCIAL LIFE THAT MATERIAL­
ISM AND INDIVI!JUALISM 
BECOME PREDOMINANT. 
hand, insofar as it denies an autonomous existence and value to morality, law, cul­ture and religion, it agrees with Marxism, in the sense that it totally reduces man to the sphere of economics and the satisfac­tion of material needs" (Centesimus Annus 19; d'. also 33, 36 and 39). 
Only if one accepts the distinction botween the free market and capitalism can one understand John Paul's claim, in one paragraph, both that the "church acknowledges the legitimate role of prof­it" and that it is "unacceptable to say that the defeat of so called 'Real Socialism' leaves capitalism as the only model of emnomic organization" (Centesimus Annus 35) . 
Now, it is important to point out that many economic theorists on the left have also collapsed the distinction between capitalism and the market economy, although they tend not to claim that they are following, without revision, Catholic teaching. This is the case with some. though not all, versions of liberation the­ology, particularly in its earlier stages. A case in point is the response, prior to 1989, of Leonardo and Clodovis Boll' to the American Catholic bishops' letter. Economic Justice for All. The Boll's argue that in the bishops' letter, "The system as such was not called into question. Once again, capitalism has escaped being cursed It is true that in some instances
000 
the bishops recognize certain structums which are greater than, and impose them­selves upon people, but this recognition does not lead to any further ethical conse­quences, such as the imperative to demol­ish such structures." The letter, they charge "strives to moralize modern capi­talism Participation (by workers) is
000 

called for, yet always in the framework of a market economy" (National Catholic Reporter, August 28, 1987, pp. 14, 23 and 25). In short, while the bishops, following John Paul II, make the distinction between capitalism and a free market economy, the Bolls, like the neo-conserva­tives, do not. The difl'emnce between the latter two is that the Boll's and many other liberation theologians reject the distinc­tion outright; the neo-conservatives sim­ply obfuscate it. 
The other key di!l'erence 'between the Bolls and the neo-conservatives is that the latter daim full eontinuity with o!lieial teaching, a claim that does not hold up under scrutiny. In my next column, I will point out how this is so. 
Todd David Whitmore is an associate professor oftheology. I lis column will usu­ally appear every other Friday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofl'he Observer. 
• DOONESBURY 
50 lA/HAT PO YOUtf/ANT 7V (3{;TOUTOF tf!Ati?EN, ZIPPI!R.? a/HATIXJ YOUtf/ANT70 IXJ H/31<&? 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
NOT5UR£. I'M 7HINKIN6 
IPUNNO­
OF ~lNG 7H8 FROSH YOU'R&!N­
IGU&95ff!7
SCNSA710N ON7H& 70 7Vt(Jf3/_..
7H&7V~
RXJT8AU Tt:i4M. 
FIGHT9? IFIGHT5.

\ /.0Ye7Vtfi££­
\ 
F16HTS/ I 

• 0UOTE OF THE DAY 
' ... you don't get to 
choose how you're going 
to die, or when. You can 
decide how you're going to 
live. Now!' 
-Joan Baez 

pagelO---------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's 01'FICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Reimhaler Kyle Carlin 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EI>ITOR Heacher M acKenzic 

NEWS EDITOR ...................... Michelle Krupa AnVERTISING MANAGER ............. Kerry McPartlin VIEWPOINT E!>ITOR ..... Eduardo LJull AD DESIGN MANAGI'R ...................... Brett Hudat SPORTS EDITOR..... . .......... Kathleen Lopa SYSTEMS MANAGER .... Michael Brouillet SCENE EniTORS... . ............. Sarah Dylag CoNTROLLER....... ...... Dave Rogr-ro 
Kristi Klirsch WEB AI>MINIST'RATOR .. . ......... Jennifer Breslow SAINT MARY's EDITOR ......M. Shannon Ryan GRAPHICS ElliTOR .............................. Pete Cilclla PHOTO Eorroa ....................... Kevin Dalum 
'llte Observt!r is rhe md~pc:nJcm nc.:wspapcr published by the stu?cnts of the Universiry ofNO[rc Dame Ju lac and 
Saint Mary's College. lr docs nor necessarily rdlt:cr rhc polictt.'!o of the administration of eirhcr insrirurion. The news i:. 
reporr~ ,u accurardy and ubjccrivdy a.\ p4:>.s.'tihle. Unsignt:d ediwri<lh rcpn"SC:"nt tht· opinion of rhc majorjty of tlu: E.ditor-in·Chief. Managing Editor, A....;isrant M.maging Ediror and department edirors. Commencaries,Jeners and 
columns pn..-scnr the views of dH: aUlhors, and not ncC("S!>:lrily those ofThe l.)bscrver. Viewpoint space is available to all 
members of rhc Notn: D.1mc/Saint Mary's community .md to all readers. The free exprt.""S..~ion of varying opinions 
rhrough letters i~ encour-.tgcd. 

Contacting The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Assi>Lant ME 6.~1-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 63 I -'i323 Systems 631-8839 Spom 631-4543 Fax 631-6927 Scene//Sainr Mary's 63 I -4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu Office Manager/Generallnformarion 631-7471 News E-Mail observer.obsnews.l @nd.edu 



VIEWPOINT 
O THE 

Tuesday. September 22, 1998 ------------------BSERVER page II 

• THE PROGRESSIVE STUDENT AlliANCE 
Yet Another Editorial on the W R. C. : Dear Obstinate Bureaucracy 
I am just a lowly. iiwll'rctual. shallow­bonn tlwir school, but it is our school. We pockrtPd studrnt. hut I think you'vo arn no longnr childmn, and I am conli­madr a big mistakr. You withhold infor­dnnt that nvery student at this university mation at a uniwrsity. has a maturity level sullicient to thor­
oughly evaluate infimnation on abortion. 
On a more basic level. possessing mate­rials or information is not equivalent to promoting them. I own a copy of Hitler's 

Madolyn 

Mien Kampf. however I am not a Nazi 
and I do not promote fascism. 
Furthermore, if you asked to borrow my 
eopy of Mien Kampf, I would gladly ofTer
Orr 

it to you. i\nd if you wanted to buy your own copy I might even give you the num­ber of a few local bookstores. Even then I 
I l'orl sun~ this must br an oxymoron. still would not consider myself to be For lwing tlw virtual controllors ol' a encouraging tho idnals hold by the author major univoJ·sity. I am surprised at your ol' the work. (Does this story sound famil­lack or consist1~nry or purposr. I am iar? It should. it parallels the WRC). assuming that tlw purposo nl' I his institu­The Catholic Church doesn't condone tion is to ~~du-rape or breast catP, yd by rPJJ­cancer, does soring tlw it? Yet it Wonwn's sm~ms logical Bosoun·.o Crnll~r that matnrials you withlwld on these sub­inli1rmation that jects would be might havn Pdu­integral parts mtPd studrnts of any self­(or any otlwr n~specting intPrf•St('(l par­Women's tins) about a Hnsource rfJnti'IJVI'rsial Center. Thnn and t.lwrPfon• why not abor­intriguing topic: tion? Heck. abortion. lot's not step 
Pulling any on anybody's nii'JJtion of. or toes. let's just information ban all forms about abortion of potentially issups from tho controversial 
• WIH: assumrs. thought on on tlu• part ol' campus. Don't Notn• llanw stu­look now. but dPnts. a lack of there are maturity that I nude draw­lind oll'l:nsivr. If ings in Hiley, our ltlw stu­and the phi­dPnts') thought losophy pror.osses an~ so department UJl(]PrdowlllpPd owns at least that wr 1:annot one copy of lw trustml to the movie prrrPivn the rrit­Exotica.i\nd intl distinction hey, I bet IH'twnon "bad" those inlill'lnation and i\nthropology misusPd infor­majors study mation. tlwn other religions why Wl~rn WP too. What are srnt acn~ptanco we going to do IPttPrs in tlw about them? first plarn'? Thn !\II the crazy primary distinc­reaction to the tion hPIWPPil content of the "had" informa-WRC gives me tion and misused ··;'/ gnmt pause. I information is had no idea that one of thmn dorsn 't exist. Thoro is that Notrn Dame carod so much about no such thing as "bad" information. only women's issues. Tho lack of a university­had actions. Factual knowledge in and of run and funded women's center, the itsPII' is nnitlwr bad nor good. i\etions underreporting of rapes on campus, the may lw inlltwnced by information and endorsement of homophobia and the actions mav he sinful, hut information absurdly regulated gender relations on alorw is no~or "bad." llownvnr. purpose­campus led me to believe that these top­fully withholding information in order to ics were unimportant to the rostrict inliJJ'JIWd decision making is most Administration. Silly me. I forgot the dflcidrdly bad. It prohibits critical think­number one rule of being a flaming liber­ing and encourages ignorancn. al: Oppression by any other name is just 
Bngarding tho religious aspeet of the the Holigious Right. argunwnt against making certain typos of I'm no Communist, but the WHC machi­inli1nnation available through student­nations smell like MeCarthyisrn to me. Or run groups, I am told that testml faith is maybe it's just all those burning witches. mueh stronger than blind faith. Yet, if one is restrictnd from nxploring informa­Madalyn Orr is a sophomore history tion mgarding the decrees of that faith and art history major living in Farley (i.e., abortion issuns). then an underde­//all. vnlopnd. immature faith relationship is The views expressed in this column are bound to form. those ofthe author and not necessarily 
/\I though some of us may be tlw ofT­those ofthe Progressive Student Alliance spring of influential, deep-pocketed, con­or The Observer. servative alumni. our parents do not attend r.lassns. Notn~ Dame may have 
• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Government Does Nothing but Legislate Morality 
I enjoyed reading Paul A. wet-land, it is also a crime. The gov­Ranogajec's letter to the editor (Sept. ernment has enact!ld minimum wage 
17) in response to a column by Sean laws, sending a message to employers Vinck. But I must admit that there that they should pay a just wage for a were several points in the letter I didn't just day's work. Thus, even in passing understand very well. ecological or economic legislation. the 
In particular, I am puzzled at his government is privileging certain moral statement to the effect that government choices and penalizing others. In othnr cannot legislate morality. I realize that words, it is legislating morality. this statement is thrown around so Does the state ever do anything but much that it has become almost cliche, legislate morality? After much thought, but it scorns to me that the government the only possibility that came to mind does very little but legislate morality. was a situation where a house of 
The government exists for the pro­Congress passes a bill honoring an tection of society, which entails enact­individual for her scientific achieve­ing and enforcing legislation to protect ment. But even in that case, Congress the mores of society. To take an obvi­is sending a moral message: This pet·­ous example, murder shows a funda­son's achievement in science is some­mental disrespect for human life and thing noble; in this area, she is a model thus harms society; therefore, the gov­to be emulated. ernment has made laws against mur­Thus, even in a ease like this, the der. By taking someone's personal government is legislating morality; property, theft also harms society; the indirectly, perhaps, but it is doing it all government has made theft a crime. In the same. It seems to me in the end these two eases, the murderer's or that people who use the phrase "gov­thiefs moral action has been deter­ernment cannot legislate morality" mined by the state to be a crime for mean something like, "I do not believe precisely the same reason that it is that the action the government is legis­morally wrong. The government is lating against is wrong." But if that is obviously legislating morality. the case, why don't they say what they 
Other examples may be less obvious, mean? If Mr. Ranogajec could show me but still involve the legislation of moral­where I have misunderstood, I would ity. There are many laws against pollu­appreciate it very much. tion to try to dissuade businesses from making certain choices and to lead Donald Jacob Uir:vlugt them to make others. Thus, it is not Graduate Student only wrong to dump toxic waste in a September 19, 1998 


Stefko sAttack on Liberals Void ofIntegrity, Intelligence 
This letter is written in response to Viewpoint section of The Observer. I Spencer Stefko's most recent Viewpoint value such debate as fundamental in article (Sept. 18), for the benefit of stimulating our studflnt body to search those of the Notre Dame community and decipher issues of right and wrong, appalled and insulted by the immaturi­justice and injustiee in soeiety at large ty of portions of this published opinion. and here at Notre Dame. Nonetheless, 
In his reflections, Mr. Stefko counsels tho intolerance and name-calling of Mr. NO first-year students on understand­Stefko fall quite short of what I consid­ing the "limits ofintellectualism." He er good debate and-in my opinion-an~ asserts that many of life's decisions hardly representative of the quality lib­similarly require common sense rea­eral arts education available to him as soning and discretion. With this point, I an American studies major at this uni­do not argue -indeed, more than aca­versity. I only fear that my dassmato demic deliberation is essential in tho will graduate with his BA in i\merican search to answer the complex personal studies this May without respect or questions one encounters in life. Yet in understanding for the importance of the example given by Mr. Stefko (decid­minority opinions in America. ing against abortion), the reasoning is I was recently reminded in one of my flawed. He assumes that the use of classes that the goal of a liberal arts one's "common sense" will automati­education is to give us the freedom (the cally lead to a rejection of abortion. word liberal stems from the Greek This choice though, varies according to word for free, "eleutheros") to think the ethical, cultural and moral values and question independently and to one possesses; uniform "common respect and tolerate that others do the sense" does not exist. same. My own piece of advic:e then. to 
However, I do not write at this time first-year students: that they keep this to debate the issue of abortion; this is idea alive; that they demand of their hashed and rehashed extensively peers free-thinking and that they be already in The Observer. I am most not intimidated to conform to behavior offended, as a follow student at this that, albeit mainstream h11re on-cam­university, by the childish remarks pus, is wrong. made at the end of this same article, In conclusion, I want to clarify that I partieularly the referenee to the am not and never have bcnn in thn past Progressive Student Alliance as "vege­affiliated with the organization under tarian baby killers" and "a posse of attack. Thus, it would be mistaken to insane clowns." I would like to inquire ''write-off' this response as a defense of of the author: Is this, Mr. Stefko, your just the PSA. I defend today, in addition best example of exercising the "com­to those students, the intelligence and mon sense" you spoke of at the begin­integrity of all the readers of The ning of your column? Did you decide, Observer seeking or providing the true with your "common sense," that these liberal arts edueation. And finally, I ask students did not deserve your respect its columnists to respect that intelli­because of their differing views, and gence and integrity in the future. instead could be ridiculed because you mistakenly felt you represented the mainstream opinion at Notre Dame? Or Erika M. Serran were you merely providing your read­Senior, govwunem/Spanish major ers a clear demonstration of the "limits Larin American Area Studies Program of intellectualism" here at ND? September 19, 1998 
On most occasions, I appreciate the variety of arguments voiced in the 
. ... . . . . .. .. ... .. -. . . .
~ 


I 
I 


BSERVER 


Former University of Michigan scholarship football player Elwood Reid exposes the brutality and twisted sub-culture of college football in his book, "If I Don't Six." 
By KRISTI KUTSCH Scene Editor 
According to firstime author Elwood Heid, most good fiction comes from the life of' its author. In his new novel, "If I Don't Six," which was released last month, this literary theory comes to life. 
Reid graduated from the University of Michigan in 1989, after spending four years as a part of' the Wolverine football team. As is evident in his novel, Heid's football career was more than just team camaraderie and playing time on the field. 
Heid. a native of Cleveland. Ohio. was recruited as an offensive tackle for Michigan during his senior year in high school. 
"When I started college, I was your stereotypical dumb jock," Reid said. "I was at a large uni­versity playing football, and I felt like a traitor wanting to read, write and take class seriously. It was my job to play football and I had to take it seriously." 
All this changed during Reid's third season when an injury left him unable to play football for the next two years. But for Reid, this injury was a blessing in disguise. because it allowed him to enjoy other facets of college life outside the football field. 
"For most kids, college is a lime of coming to age, and a time to discover other worlds," Heid said. "But football is such an intense experience, when you play football you don't get that coming to age. 
"My injury really allowed for a second college experience. Once I was released from the clutches of football, people began to accept me as much more than just a dumb jock." It was this personal experience as a Wolverine football player provided the backdrop for his novel "If I Don't Six," giving the book an inside look at the world of football. 
"The book is really about a guy coming to age in a sports obsessed culture," Heid said. 
"I wanted to write a book about something that I knew. but also about something that every­one has in common. Most people have some passion for sports, so it was a topic that everyone could tap into," he added. 
In "If I Don't Six," the personality and experience of Heid is transformed into Elwood Riley, a working class kid recruited to play football for the University of Michigan. Although the book appears to be autobiographical, Reid insists it is a work of fiction created out of actual experi­ence. 
"The book is not meant to be paganist non-fiction," he said. "Most of the book is fiction and made up. I'm not interested in degrading the reputation of the University of Michigan." What the book is meant to be is a raw look inside the world of college football, an alternative to the all-American impression that so many Americans hold about the sport. "This book asks questions about football, and if you are a hard-core fan, it might affect you," the author said. "The book tells what I consider to be a realistic look at a college football player and team, instead of a glossed over TV image of an all-American sport, " Heid said. 
"In our society, violence is a part of the sport. When young athletes get into trouble, we are all surprised. But we live in a universe of little moral consequence and these things shouldn't be a surprise." 
Although the text is saturated with Heid's personal experitmce and knowledge of the sport, Heid went through the agonies of much unsuccessful prose before writing the text of "If I Don't Six." 
After graduating nine years ago, he worked a cornucopia of jobs, including a carpenter, bar­tonder and bouncer, while trying to break into the literary world. 
"I had the idea that if I took a job and put a suit on, l wouldn't be able to write when I got home. Instead I used by body in my job so that my mind would be fresh, and it just made my desire to write even stronger," he said. 
In th!~ infancy of his writing career, Heid wroto several short stories, which will be published in a short story collection next year, as well as two unfinished novels. In the spring of 1996 Heid hired an agent and sold "II' I Don't Six" to Doubleday publishing house. 
"It took me a long time to get where I am today," he said. "I received more than 300 rejec­tion letters before I even had an agent." Heid received a masters degree in creative writing from the University of Miehigan in 1997, and spent the 1997 academic year teaching a composition class at U of M. lie admits that his greatest hope is that he will make his readers think about what they are reading. "Nowadays, too many authors think that they have a license to bore. I want people to think. Even if it makes them angry, at least I am getting a reaction," he said. 
Beid will appear tonight at Barnes and Noble Bookstore on Grape Hoad to read excerpts from his book and other short stories. l-Ie is currently working on a second novel, while touring the Midwest on his book tour. 
"So far I have been really lucky, the reviews have been really good," he said. 

Photo courtesy of Nina Egner Moore 
Elwood Reid, author of "If I Don't Six." 

;What: Elwood Reid reading ,excerpts of his book, "If I Don't Six," and other short stories. 

'iii where: Barnes & Noble Booksellers, Grape Road 
When: Tonight,7 p.m. 



Tuesday, September 22, 1998 ------------------OTHE page 13
BSERVER 




ALL COSTS 
"A fresh new voice, compelling and possessing a fierce honesty. I admire the power and grace of the writing, and the relentless, mesmerizing direc­tion of the story." 
-Rick Bass, author, "The Sky, the Stars, the 
Wilderness" 

\ "Here is a book to open you eyes.
\ 

Elwood Reid tells some hard truths 
' " 

\ about college football and the lives attached to it. He has kept <..\ ~ his report clear and straightfor­"'" ward, with the result that this story 
'~ is relentless, and finally unforgettable . ...,.,\ \\ Don't say you weren't warned. This book " kept me up half the night." 
-Charles Baxter, author, "Believers" 
BOOK REVIEW A thought-provoking look behind college football's glamour 
"If I Don't Six'' Author: Elwood Reid DoubleDay/320 pages/$22.95· 
~~~~ 
(out of five shamrocks) 
By ALLISON KRlLLA 
Srcm· Writer 
Elwood Heid's first novel, "If I Don't Six," eaptures the essenee of the Anwriean mal<' psyelw as he portrays the violence and injustice of a big-limP college football system through the eyes of Elwood Hiley. 
lliley, whnsr~ only nscape from his blue-collar family lit'e in Cleveland is a football scholarship to the Universit.y of Michigan, l'inds himself trapped in a world of manipulative eoaehes and female groupies drawn in by fame, subjected to the athletes' cruelty and forced to deal with playMs too numbod to eare what they do to themselvns or others. It is a world in which tho six-foot-six. 275-pound Riley knows he doesn't belong. 
ll's a catch-22 for l{i]P.y, who must choose to sacrifice his intelligeneo and ignon~ his consdenee or risk the threat of "six" by losing his schol­arship or getting maimed. i\s his freshman year progresses, the down­ward slide of college football life accelerates, and Riley witnesses his father's doelining physieal and mental hHalth from the monotony of his factory job. 
Seeing his father surrounded by the "could've beens" pushes Riley far­ther from the blue-eollar life his high school friends see as inevitabln. He wants a University of Michigan education. but can only afford it with the tuition assistance football provides. Yet. it is on the football team that Hiley finds men who have been brainwashed to do anything for the glory of the Maize and Blue -men who have succumbed to violence, alcohol and performance-enhancing drugs. 
Within the web of decisions about his future, Riley deals with the typi­cal first-year college student problems: choosing classes. a long-distance relationship with his girlfriend Heather, making friends and his budding romance with Kate, the football coach's daughter. 
In his first attempt at novel writing, Elwood Reid does an exeellent job revealing the harsh realities of big-time college football, with esealating episodes of violence and manipulation that make "If I Don't Six" a real page-turner. However, while the story itself is compelling, some interest in or knowledge about eollege football is a must before diving into Reid's novel. 
With a variety of twists and turns, the novel rarely suffers a slow moment and can bH read in one sitting, although not by the faint of heart. Reid's "no holds barred" approach to violenee leaves little to the imagi· nation. This ean be especially disturbing when you consider the subjed matter of college lifn and athletics. 
Reid, a former college football player himself, constructs a story so teeming with detail that it's important to remember that "If I Don't Six" is fictional. 
.John Dufresne, author of ''Love Warps the Mind a Little," gets to the eore of Held's work. saying. "If ypu still cherish the romanee that our prestigious universities are cultivating scholar-athletes. then you haven't looked this wolverine in the eye." 
This novel is a fabulous distraetion from the mid-semester grind, and it Willlmdoubtedly rorce you to Start thinking. 
-

~­
page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, September 22, 1998 
,_.,_. 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 

Toronto's Clemens wins 15th straight decision 
.·­
Associated Press 
TORONTO 
Roger Clemens earned his 20th victory, winning his 15th straight decision and striking out 15 as he pitched the Toronto Blue Jays past Cal Ripken and the Baltimore Orioles 3-1 Monday night. 
A day after ending his streak of playing 2,632 straight games, Ripken returned to the Orioles lineup. He went 2-for­4 and passed Babe Huth for 34th on the career list with 2,875 hits. 
Toronto stayed four games behind Boston in the AL wild­card race. The Red Sox beat Tampa Bay 4-3 in the first game of a doubleheader. 
Clemens (20-6). bidding for his record fifth Cy Young Award. has the longest win­ning streak in the majors since Gaylord Perry won 15 in a row in 1974 for Cleveland. 
Clemens, a four-time 20­game winner. tied Atlanta's Tom Glavine for the major league lead in victories. Clemens also leads the AL in ERA (2.58) and strikeouts (260). 
Last season, Clemens became the first AL pitcher to lead the league in all three categories since Detroit's Hal Newhouser did it in 1945. 
After starting the season 5­6, Clemens is unbeaten in 21 starts dating back to May 29. 
Clemens pitched eight innings, allowing seven hits and three walks. He struck out 14 in the first seven innings. 
Dan Plesac got one out for 
his fourth save. 
Shawn Green hit his 33rd 
home run and Carlos Delgado 
hit his 35th for a 2-0 lead in 
the third. 
Scott Erickson (15-13) struck out a career-high 12 in a com­plete game. He gave nine hits and walked three. 

Harold Baines hit an RBI single in the Orioles fifth. Craig Grebeck singled home a run in the Toronto sixth. 
Seattle 5, Oakland 2 
Pinch-hitters Rob Ducey and Charles Gipson delivered con­secutive RBI hits in a three­run eighth inning Monday night as the Seattle Mariners beat the Oakland Athletics 5­
2. 

Jose Paniagua (2-0) pitched a scoreless eighth and Mike Timlin came on in the ninth for his 17th save. 
The score was tied at 2 in the eighth when Raul Ibanez's one-out popup dropped between three A's fielders down the third-base line for a double. Ducey then hit a drive high off the right-center wall for a go-ahead double that chased Oakland starter Gil Heredia. 
Facing Buddy Groom, Gipson laced a single down the right­field line to score pinch-run­ner Giomar Guevara. Shane Monahan doubled in Gipson with two outs. 
Heredia (3-3) went seven­plus innings, allowing three runs on eight hits. He walked none and struck out five. 
Seattle starter Jeff Passero was looking for his third straight win. He went seven innings, allowing six hits and two walks while striking out six. 
Ken Griffey Jr. hit the ball hard three times, but went 0­for-4 and remained stuck on 53 home runs. 

San Fran 8, Pittsburgh 1 
Jeff Kent hit a three-run homer and Ore! Hershiser 
pitched seven strong innings to break a six-start winless streak, leading the San Francisco Giants past the Pittsburgh Pirates 8-1 Monday night. 
The Giants moved within 3 1/2 games of the idle New York Mets in the NL wild-card race with their fourth victory in five games. 
Kent has 30 home runs and 122 RBis, making him the only other second baseman in major league history besides Hogers Hornsby to have con­secutive 120-HBI seasons. He did so despite missing 24 games this season with a knee injury. 
Hershiser (10-10) had been 0-2 in six starts since his last victory, a 3-2 win over Florida on Aug. 16. He allowed one run and six hits, walked three and struck out five. 
The Giants went up 1-0 in the first off Jose Silva (6-6) when Marvin Benard tripled and scored on a single by Bill Mueller. 
Mueller's two-run double in the fifth put the Giants up 3-0. After Barry Bonds was walked intentionally, Kent followed with a towering home run over the left-field bleachers for a 6-0 lead. 
The Pirates scored a run in the sixth on Kevin Young's RBI double. 
Joe Carter's two-run homer in the seventh, a pinch-hit shot off Jeff Tabaka, made it 8-1. Carter has 15 home runs this season, including three with the Giants and 393 for his career. Two of his homers with the Giants came as a pinch-hitter, the only pinch-hit home runs of his career. 
Silva lasted 4 1-3 innings, allowing six runs on five hits with four walks and one strikeout. 


Detroit 7, Kansas City 5 
Joe Handa scored the go­ahead run on Scott Service's wild pitch in the eighth inning Monday night as the Detroit Tigers beat the Kansas City Royals 7-5. 
Carlos Beltran tripled twice for the Royals, who hit four triples -one short of the club record -but still had their season-high home winning streak snapped at four games. 
Detroit won for the eighth time in its last 12 games, including four of its last five. 
Randa singled off Service (6­
4) to start the eighth and went to third when shortstop Mendy Lopez misplayed a one-out ground ball by pinch-hitter Luis Gonzalez. 
Dean Crow (2-2) got the last two outs of the seventh before leaving after a leadoff walk in the eighth. 
Todd Jones, the eighth Detroit pitcher, got the last three outs for his 27th save. 
The Royals scored four runs in the sixth to tie it at 5. After Lopez singled with two out. Carlos Febles hit an RBI triple and then scored on Beltran's second triple. Jose Offerman scored Beltran with a single. 
Rob Fick, called up from Double-A Jacksonville on Saturday, capped a four-run third inning with his first career home run for a 4-0 Tigers lead. 
Fick's two-run shot to right center off starter Brian Barber followed a solo homer by Brian Higginson and back-to­hack doubles by Tony Clark and Damion Easley. 
Barber lasted only 4 1-3 innings. Detroit starter Brian Powell pitched five innings, leaving with a 4-1 lead. 
Clark added an RBI double in the ninth. 
Damon hit his lOth triple in the fifth. 
Cinci 8, Philadelphia 5 
Tony Tarasco's pinch-hit grand slam in the seventh inning rallied the Cincinnati Reds to an 8-5 victory over the Philadelphia Phillies on Monday night. 
The start of the game was delayed by rain for 2 hours, 23 minutes. Once it began. Scott Holen hit two home runs and a double as the Phillies took a 5-4 lead. 
Tarasco hit his first slam in the majors, and the first pinch-hit slam for the Reds since Lenny Harris did it on Aug. 31, 1996, against the Florida Marlins. 
Scott Sullivan (5-5) got the win in relief and Danny Graves got his seventh save. 
Mark Leiter (7-5) blew a save chance for the 12th time. He loaded the bases on a hit batsman, a walk and a field­er's choice before Tarasco homered over the right-field wall. 
The Phillies bullpen kept starter Tyler Green from get­ting his first win since beating Tampa Bay on June 26. Sinee then, he's been 0-7 with three no-decisions. 
Green allowed five hits, struck out one and walked live in five innings. 
Cincinnati starter Mike Remlinger was spared becom­ing the first Cincinnati pitcher to lose more than 15 games in a season since Jay Tibbs was 10-16 in 1985. He allowed six hits, struck out five and walked two in six innings. 
Rolen doubled in the first and scored on Kevin Jordan's double. Rolen's solo homer in the third gave Philadelphia a 2-1 lead. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame ottlce, 314 LaForrune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

Classifieds 

VOLUNTEERS NEEDED  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  Individual Game Tickets. GA-only  especially when its german Iovin' ...  
NOTICES  The Early Childhood Development  info: http://Business.michiana.org/bnbreg  674-7645  I need 1 Baylor ticket. My number  uncle mark- 
Center, located at Saint Mary's  219-291-7153.  ND Football Tickets Needed.  is 219-634-1651.  
Early Spring Break  College and the University of Notre  AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726  is the pact harder for YOU now that  
Specials! Bahamas Party Cruise!6  Dame, is looking for volunteers who  THE PRIMROSE PATH  SALE  brent is dating?  
Days $279!1ncludes most meals!  enjoy young children. Jf you would  BED AND BREAKFAST-LOCATED  ND FOOTBALL TIX  Married student ND Tickets  
Awesome  be interested in spending 2 hours a  15 MINUTES NORTH OF CAMPUS  FOR SALE  (H)247-0252  jealousy is a very strong emotion.  
Beaches,Nightlife!Departs From  week reading children's books,  HAS OPENINGS FOR FOOTBALL  AM 232-2378  yz0004@ hotmail.com  
Florida!Cancun & Jamaica  building with blocks, and singing  WEEKENDS.LOVEL Y HISTORIC  PM 288-2726  just remember, i'm here for you.  
Air,Hotei,Meals &Parties  songs with children, please call  INN, FULL ELEGANT BREAK­ 
$339!Panama City Room With  Cindy Hestad at 284-4693 (ECDC­ FASTS.4 GUEST  Need LSU tix  Need 4 Stanford tix. call kev@  so mark, you like the schoolgirl  
Kitchen, 7 Free Parties  SMC) or Thayer Kramer at 631­ ROOMS,AIC,CABLE TV.2 NIGHTS  289-2918  4.0673  look, eh?  
$129!Daytona Room With Kitchen  3344  REQUIRED.$99.00 Call616-695­ 
$149!1998 BBB Award  (ECDC-ND). Please join our fun  6321  I have tickets to all Notre Dame  eh?  
Winner!springbreaktravel.com  filled days.  Always buying and selling N D foot­ Football games at the cheapest  
1·800-678-6386  913 LAWRENCE  ball tickets. 289-8048  prices you can imagine.  crispin is a great name.  
SPRING BREAK '99!  3 BED GARAGE BASEMENT  Call Brian at 634-2016.  
"OWN A BMW"  Cancun•Nassau• Jamaica•Mazatlan  LARGE YD WALK TO CAMPUS  just say it a few times.  
Earn $$ While you Learn  • Acapulco•Bahamas  575 MO 500 DEP.  Need 5 Purdue GAs  
247-0736  Cruise· Florida· south Padre  FACULTY OR STAFF  Call x3501 Eric  Help! Need one ticket for Stanford.  crisp.  
Travel Free and make lots of  232-2595  Please call Beth @ 273-9753.  
ILOST & FOUND I  Cash!Top reps are offered full-time staff jobs. Lowest price  3,4,5 Bdrm Homes. 2 Blks  I need 2 tickets (GA or student) for Stanford (Oct. 2) for my baby broth­ Need 2 Purdue Tix  it just sounds so ....  
Guaranteed. Call now for details!  From Campus. 240-0322  er and his friend (a prospective). If  Christian @289-7136  fresh.  
There was nothing found nor lost  www.classtravel.com  you can help me, please call 4­ 
today on the campus of Notre Dame, of course why would we tell you if anything was found or lost on  800/838-6411 MYSTERY SHOPPERS  FOR SALE  0562. Ask for Michelle.  PERSONAL  diane .... the next silent message we get that is blank, it's over.  
any other campus.  WANTED  I Need ASU TIX  WELCOME FRESHMAN KATIE  someone will die.  
You Dine ...We Pay  PREPAID PHONE CARDS  243-2934  BARKLEY  
-­ WANTED  Professional restaurant experience a must.  198 MIN. $20 CALL 258-4805  BUYING N.D. TICKETS """'"'""  $6 Haircuts  perhaps sonny and cher and 'I got you babe?'  
Why not enjoy a meal out on  ALL GAMES... 277-1659  VITO'S BARBER SHOP  
ABSOLUTE SPRING BREAK... "TAKE 2"  us?Call PDB Management 1-888-7 43-7999  TICKETS  FOR SALE N.D. TICKETS  1523 Lincolnway West Closed Sun & Wed  know anyone who owns THAT cd?  
2 FREE TRIPS ON ONLY 15  ALL GAMES 272-7233 .........  i heard its fun to dance to.  
SALES and ... EARN $$$$. Jamaica.Cancun,Bahamas.Fiorida,  FOR RENT  I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306  I need 5 LSU tix. Call Eric  M-T-Th-Fr-8-4 Sat 8-3  Sean take off your hat!  
Padre!  x1808.  
Lowest prices!  1 ,2,3,4,5 BDRM HOMES. NEAR  TICKETMART Inc  Love ya B.  Nice haircut. how much did you pay  
- Free Meals,Parties & Drinks.  CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW GILLIS PROPERTIES.272-6551  BUY -SELL-TRADE Notre Dame Football Tickets  WANTED!  MEN'S CLUB  for that one?  
··umited Offer...  258-1111  Purdue Ticket  VOLLEYBALL TRYOUTS  ROCKY -coupons or a good song  
That Pretty Place, Bed and  No student tickets please  4-1067  Tuesday, Sept. 22 &  to box to?  
1800-426-7710  Breakfast Inn has space available  Thursday, Sept. 24  
www.sunsplashtours.com  for football/parent wknds.5 Rooms  Need 1 Stanford tic.  7-10pm in the JACC.  KT-need to find a new way to alle­ 
with private baths,$80­ FOR SALE  x0759  FREE MY UTILE PONY!!!  viate your boredom next time. not  
I'm looking for 2 "Irish Comfort" !­ $115,Middlebury,30 miles from  FOOTBALL TICKETS  by changing my voice mail.  
shirts for me and my dad.  campus.Toll Road,Exit #107,1-800­ 271-9412  hello brent (my favorite rand-oid)­ 
If you sell them or have a few extra,  418-9487.  SELLING TWO GA's TO  Crazy, why are you so .......... .  
please help me out.  WANTED  PURDUE & STANFORD  bet the pact is a lot harder now that  crazy?  
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS  243-2770  you are dating ....  
Call Michelle at 4-0562.  ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE  271-1526  Sadie still better be in the freezer  
TO CAMPUS. 243-0658.  Purdue GA for sale  love, heather  and not thrown out...again!  
ND Footbaii-Buy-Seii.Seasonal and  4-1896  

-------~--._.__..--~----------~------­
Tuesday, September 22, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 15 
• THACK 
Griffith Joyner dies at age 38 from heart failure 
Associated Press bered for her stunning speed fourth gold medal when the U.S. old daughter, Mary Huth. After her performance in and fashion 11amboyance that team finished second in the For many years. she was Seoul, Griffith Joyner was voted MISSION VIEJO, Calif. took track to new levels. 1,600 relay, which Griffith coached by Bob Kersee, hus­The Associated Press Female 
Flornncn Griffith Joynnr died "What Florence brought to Joyner anchored. band of Jackie Joyner-Kersee, Athlete of the Year for 1988 and Monday at age 38, just a decade track was a llash and a llair that "People are still trying to eatch but AI acted as her coach after also won the Sullivan Award as afttn· dazzling Olympie track we didn't have, which was prob­the records she set more than the 1988 trials. the nation's top amateur athlete. with spo!Hl and glamour that ably good for tho sport and got 10 years ago. It's an amazing haw rwvt~r bonn matr.lw.d. attention for us," said Olymp.ic legacy. Many have tried and all 
A t.riplP gold mndalist at t.hn sprint champion Evelyn Ashfora, have failed in terms or her S!'oul Olympics and still thn onn of hnr main rivals and hnr records," said Carl Lewis, who litslnst woman pvnr. "Flo.Jo" was Olympic .tnamrnatn in 1984 and won nine Olympic gold medals. known as murh as lwr skintight '88. . "This (her death) is something running suits. hnr flowing hair "Wn wern dazzled by her that irnpaets the sport when the and hPr glittc~ring lingnrnails as speed. humbled by her talent, sport is hurting very, very bad." lwr stunning times. and eaplivatnd by her style," At the 1988 trials. where she 
An autopsy was bning con­addE1d President C1inton. ran tlw three fastest 100-meter dud.Pd t.o dntPrmirw tlw causn of "Thou~h slw rosP to the pinna­timBs twer by a woman and set dnath. Iter husband AI Joyner. do of' the world of' sports. she the American meord in the 200, ­himself a I <J84 tripln jump gold nnvnr forgot wlwre she came she also madP her mark with nwdalist., ralbl authorities aftnr from, devoting time and her appaml. l'inding lwr "unn•sponsivn and resourens to helping childrnn -One eye-eatch ing outlit was a not hrPathing" Parly Monday, especially those growing up in purpln bodysuit with a turquoise arrording to tlw Orange County our most dnvastatnd nnighbor­bikini brief over it, but with shPrill"s dPpartnwnt. hoods -makn the most of' their nothing on her left leg, a design 
(; n•g Fos lt• r. a th n~n-tim n own talents." she referred to as a "one-log­world t•.hampion in tlw I I 0-Along with hnr sister-in-law, ger." · llll'lt•r hurdlns, said lw was told six-timP Olympic medalist and At the Olympics, slm painted by lwr family that GriiTith world hE~ptathlon mcord-holder three of her fingernails red, .Joyner dind of a !wart-related .lackio .Joyrwr-Kersne, Griffith white and blue, and she painted problem. .Joynnr turrwd the 1988 Snoul a fourth gold to signify her goal. 
Primo Nnbiolo, tlw lwad of tlw Olympics into a pnrsonal show­At the 1987 World IAAF, track's intnrnational fnd­ease. Championships in Ho-me, she nration, said hn know c;ril'fith Griffith Joyner still holds eausod a sensation by running .loynPr had "sonw serious !wart world records in tho I 00-and the first two rounds in a problnms in rPcnnl months," 200-nwtnr dashes. Shn set the skintight suit similar to a speed­although orrn of ht~r· hrotlwrs. I 00 _mark of 10.49 sneonds in skater's togs. Weldon Pitts. said sht~ had the quartorl'inals of the 1988 "She liked her fingernails and shown no sign of illnnss n~t:nnl­Olympic trials at Indianapolis, pretty hair," said Ashford. ly. and sinee then, no one has even Grif'lith .Joyner was born Dec. 
c;rif'lilh .loynnr had sul'!'t~rml a broknn 10.60. At Snoul, she won 21. 1959, in south Los Angeles, soizurn two yoars ago on a 11ight the gold modal in a wind-aided one of 11 children whose father from California to St. Louis, and I0.54. was an electrical technician and was hospitalizml for one day. She then smashed the world mother was a teacher. 
llnr family did not disrlosn thn 200 mcord in the Olympic final, She graduated from .Jordan ailnwnt. docking 21.34. Marion .Jones, High School in Los Angeles in 
llnr museular physiqun with a 21.(>2 at the World Cup in 1978, attended Cal State promptnd talk of stnroid ust!, but South Africa earlier this month, Nor·thridge for two years, then slw insistPd siH~ rwvPr used pnr­is the only othtw woman to run graduated from UCLA in 1983 formant:n nnhanc:t~rs and shn the 200 in under 21.70. with a degree in psychology. 
Florence Griffith Joyner holds world records in the 1 00 and 200-meter 
rwwr failed a drug test. She also won a gold modal in She married AI Joyner on Oct. 
dashes.
CriiTith Joyner was remem-the 400 relay and just missed a 10, 1987. Thgy have a 7-year­
• COLLEGE fOOTBALl 
UCLA signs Toledo to contract extension 
Oe!JV-e~tirj Tk {jd~t Pizza.! [3®[}~ ~[1}® ®0®®~ ilC!J®0C{][l~gg  
Anytime Anytime you call between you call between 6:00 & 7:30, 11:00-12:30 the price of yourthe price of your 2 large 1 large 1 topping topping pizzas pizza is the time you call.is the time you call. *Plus tax*Plus tax  
ND store Saint Mary's/ 271-11.77 North Village Mall Drive-In and Delivery 271-PAPAVisa/Mastercard Accepted  

Associated Press Monday -two days after the Bruins (2-0) beat llouston 42-24. LOS ANGELES Before coming to UClA Toledo 
UCLA coach Bob Toledo, whose spent six seasons (1983-88) at third-ranked Bruins have won a the University of Oregon, serving school-record 12 straight games, as assistant head coach, ollensive has signed a two-year contract coordinator and quarterbacks extension, the school said coach, and five years (1989-9:~) Monday. as offensive coordinator and 
Toledo, 52, in his third year as quarterback coach at Texas coach of the Bruins, is under A&M. contract through the 2003 sea­Toledo wasn't the first choice 
son at a salary of $453,000 per to succeed Donahue, but got the year. job after such big names as 
''I'm not going anywhere," said Colorado coach Hiek Neuheisel, a Toledo, hired to succeed Terry UCLA graduate, and Donahue on Jan. 4, 1996, after Northwestern coach Gary serving two years as UCLA's Barnntt withdrew from consider­
offensive coordinator. "I love ation. UCI.A. Hopefully, I ean stay here The Bruins were !i-6 in until I'm 62 and then retire." Toledo's first year as head eoaeh, ­
Toledo said he signed the and lost their first two games last extension in June, but it wasn't season bt~fore winning tlwir linal announced until his weekly 10, including a 29-23 victory over meeting with reporters on Texas A&M in thn Cotton Bowl. 
SPECIAL 
'll~N 5_~
·~"5'41' ~ ­
-/...&-y ....fl/7 h 
©Th~o£~~!!~ &Co. ·, 
• 
Facial Tanners 

• 
Lururloua, Clean Private Rooms 


1

• Stereo & Body Cooling with Every Lounge Closed Mondays 
Tan All You Can 
Mlnuleft Iron. Campus State Rollto 2_..,tronwood
for one month $35.00 
exptres October '98 
272-0312 tt-



--~---~-·---~---------------------~-~~~--~-~--~ w ---..:~---~--~-------.... 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, September 22, 1998 




Ripken passes the Babe with 2,87 4th career hit 
Associated Press 
TORONTO It was a short furlough for Cal Ripken. 
A day after ending his aston­ishing streak of 2,632 consecu­tive games. Ripken was back in the starting lineup for Baltimore on Monday against Toronto, the same team he faced when the streak started on May 30, 1982. 
The SkyDome crowd rose to its feet when Ripken trotted to third base in the bottom of the first inning. and he responded to the ovation with a wave of his cap. 
Then in his first at-bat. he sin­gled off Roger Clemens in the second inning. It was Ripken's 2.874th hit. moving him ahead of Babe Ruth into sole posses­sion of 34th spot on the career list. 
With time to contemplate his decision. Ripken was sure he made the right move in !mding the streak Sunday night. 
"No regrets, no second thoughts," he said Monday dur­ing a pregame news conference. "I felt great about how it went. It was a great celebration instead of a sad event." 
He admitted feeling strange about watching a game from the dugout. and sounded relieved to be returning to the field. 
"I still consider myself an everyday player," he said. 01 have a lot of baseball left in me." 
Ripken dosed his record run by removing himself from the starting lineup in the Orioles' final home game of the season against the New York Yankees. 
The move came more than three years after he broke 2,130-game streak of Yankees iron man Lou Gehrig -a record that had stood for 56 years. 
Baltimore manager Ray Miller said he and Ripken had spoken a cou pie of times over the past month about the idea of taking days ofT. 
"I told him this a couple weeks ago ... that 10 or 12 games off, or maybe 15 games, you would be 10 percent better," Miller recounted Monday. "I just think that common sense tells me you would be fresher." 
But Miller said he planned to start Ripken for the rest of this season, and he marveled at what his third baseman had accom­plished. 
"The streak is mind-boggling," Miller said. "He's 501 games past an insurmountable number. No one will ever make 2,131." 
Ripken isn't so sure. 
"If I did it someone else can do it. I don't see myself as superhu­man," he said in Baltimore after watching an Orioles' game from the dugout for the first time since May 29, 1982. There's no telling how long Ripken could have gone. Gehrig'sstreak ended when he could no longer cope with a rare muscular disorder that later became known as Lou 
-
Vniversity ofCJVgtre Vame qnternationa{Study CJlrooram zn• 

1999 -2000 Academic Year 
GJnformatton fX¢btfl
-
with 

9?t'ofessor cnavtd ~eur 
C)ucsda!, Scptcm&cr 22. 1998 4:30pm ~om 120 C])cCJ3artofo 
~{ _,{re CWefcomef 
Gehrig's disease. decided that spring training in 
Ripken was eompletely 1999 might be more fun if he healthy. He just got tired of the didn't have to talk about playing c·ontroversy surrounding the another full season. streak -more than one colum­So, without tipping any of his nist called him selfish -and teammates except Brady Anderson, his best friend on the Orioles, Ripken walked into Miller's office a half-hour before the game and asked to have his name removed from the starting lineup. 
NCUA 





NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT ONION 
For People. Not For Profit. 
www.ndfcu.org (219) 239-6611 or (800) 522-6611 
lndependant of the University 
LOCKHEED 
INVITES NOTRE DAME STUDENTS 
TO 


Information Nlght 
Wednesday, $ept.23 6:30 -8:00pm Main Lounge University Club 
Challenging Career Opportunities in Our Many Product Lines far CS/ EE/ ME/ AEI Physics/ Math/ Business Majors 
PIZZA AND REFRESHMENTS WILL BE PROVIDED 
visit us at www.lmco.com 



Tuesday, Sepeember 22, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS 


Sanders 
leads Cowboys to 31-7 win ·.­
Associated Press Sanders' long reception as for the NFL lead with 13. The Giants tied it 7-7 with Dallas ( 2-1) became the only How bad was it? 3:54 left in the half on a 36­l~AST HUTIIEHFOHD. N.J. team in thn division with a At one point, the Giants yard TD pass from Danny 
Who nnnds Troy Aikman winning roeord. had two straight illegal pro­Kanell to Amani Toomer. or l~mmitt Smith whnn The Cowboys, who fell to cedure calls against them But on the next series, I>Pion Sandc~rs docs it all'! (,-) 0 and fourth place last and had five overall, three Garrett found Davis over the 
Sandnrs roturnnd a punt season aftnr five straight by left tackle Homan Oben. middle on a third-and-10 59 yards for a touehdown; division litlns, won despite That's not supposed to hap­from his own 20. sot up anotlwr TD with a 55-being without two of their pen at home before a record Then, after Mathis inter­yard rncc~plion; and quartet or stars -Aikman, crowd of 78,039. cepted a pass by Kanell, rPturrwd an intnrcnption 71 who broke his collarbone ''I'm confused right now pass interference penalty on yards for a srorn, piling up last wenk. and Smith, who where this team is mental­Phillippi Sparks set Z26 yards on ol'f'ensn, lnft in the second quarter ly," coach Jim Fassel said. Hichie Cunningham's 40­dc~fpnsn and spncial tnams. with a pulled groin muscle "No matter what we tried, yard lield goal that made it 
Tlw rnsult: a :~ 1-7 vic~tory and did not rnturn. we just made mistake after 17-7 at halftime. ovl'r thn NPw York Giants Evcm Sanders, who added mistake after mistake. More Garrett, who finished 12­that put tlw Dallas Cowboys a 39-yard punt return in the than once they made a play of-28 for 222 yards, con­ba(~k wlwrn tlwy think they third quartnr, sat out most and our guys didn't. That's nected with Sanders on should always hn -at tlw or the second quarter what the NFL is all about." third-and-8 from their 20 on top of tlw NH: Hast. bncause of dehydration. Neither team crossed mid­their second offensive series 
"I don't havP to t!'ll you. "It's exhausting but I love lield in the lirst quarter. in the second half that car­hn's a spPcial athlntn," it," Sandors said of his mul­But after the Giants first ried the ball to the New York Cowboys quartnrback Jason tiple roles. "It knnps me series of the second quartnr, 25. (;arrnll said. "lin dons sonw focused on the gamn." Sanders struck. He took That set up Williams' ~. unhnlinvabiP things and lw For the Giants ( 1-2), the Brad Maynard's low punt, touchdown dash up the mid­dons tlwm ovnr and ovor loss broke a nine-game zigged left, then zigged right dle. and owr again." streak without a loss in the and zagged back into the Sanders' 71-yard intercep­
Gar-rPtt, making only his division they won last season middle of the field for the tion return came with 2:25 third rarPPr start for thn with a I 0-5-1 record. 15th return touchdown of left in the game. Giants injun~d Troy Aikman, con­They had 11 penalties for his career. the fourth on a receiver Ike Hilliard slipped, nPt:tnd with Billy Davis on an 92 yards al'ter getting 15 for punt. Sanders grabbed the ball HO-yard TD pass and (JO yards in a loss at Oakland "I don't catch the punt and and ran untouched to the Slwrman Williams ran 18 last week and had no sacks go 10 yards," Sanders said. end zone, dancing over the yards for a scorn after al'ter entering the game tied "I try to score every time." last 10 yards. 
J'I{INCIPLES ol SOUND RETIREMENT INVESTING 
RECENTLY, MORNINGSTAR CALLED US CHEAP. 
IT'S NOT EVERY DAY YOUGETACOMPLIMENT LII<ETHAT. 
AII financial companies charge operating fees lvariable annuity] policy, and is even compet­fiand expenses-some more than others. or itive with the cheapest mutual fund complexes, 
eourse. the lower the expenses you pay, the better. though it offers far more benefits."" That way. more of your money goes where it 
"TIAA-CREF sets the standard in the should-towards building a comlortable future. 
f"mancial services industry." We make low expenses a top priority. 
Of course, expenses are only one factor to As the largest retirement system in the consider when you make an investment decision. 
world'-a nonprolit company focused exclu­Morningstar also noted our commitment to sively on the linaneial needs of the educational "consumer education, service" and "solid and researeh communities-our expenses are investment performance." Because that can among the lowest in the insurance and mutual make a difference in the long run, too. 
-

fund industries? At TIAA-CREl~ we believe people would In fact, Tl AA-CREF's 0.31'!--h average Fund like to spend more in retirement, not on their 
expenses are less than half of the expense charges retirement company. Today, over two million of comparable funds:' It's why Morningstar­people count on that approach to help them one ol' the nation's leading sources of annuity and build a comfortable and secure future. So mutual fund inf(mnation-says, ''1\t that level can you. To find out more, call us at ITl AA-CREFl is cheaper than any other l 800 842-2776. We'd consider it a compliment. 
Visit us on the Internet at www.tiaa-cref.org 


Use Observer Classifieds 
Ensuring the future for those who shape it."' 
1 ll.t:-;c..•tl 011 $2.)h lull tun in as.sc..•ts under mnn.1gcrnent. 2 SltuuJ,,.,J c..',' P~,,,.;, flt.•urt~nn· R,zllll,tJ.llltt!y,,l;,, 1998; Lipper t\n;.tlyti~·al Scr\'ices. In~··· f.tt'l'~·r-nuwt1 w,• ' 1 lualyltMI /Jata I'l'J~ (Qu<~rtcrl,v). 3. Of the 4,829 v,triab~c..· annuiti.es tn.tc..·ked by .\\orningstar.. the ,:t~·eragc..· l~nd h.ul t:lt<\1 ~ces t•mnl,111ing 1u1mwl c..•.xpcnsl!s ul' 0 H21Yu plus nn 1nsu_rancc..• exp~ns.e ~ll 1,'2~ ~·-h. Sourc..:e.: i\\t~~·n1ngs~nr, ltH'., lor pcnods endmg 7/31 I >8.
1 

4. Source: ,\\nrntngstar Pnnctpm IartllMt• 41nmultt'••ll.tk ..f/30/ JH. 
TIAt\-CREF c..•=<tH'nsc..•s an~ :ml,jcc..t to c..·h.mgc and .u-e nnt guarantc..·ed I~Jr the !'~tun:. Past p'-'rl(,rm.~m:e is.~o guarante~ ol'future results. Tlt\1\-CREF lndJ\ idual and ln~titutiun,d Ser\'ic.:es distributes CRI:.F t'l'rt1f1c.ates i.\1\d 11\lt:'resrs 111 thl' liAr\ Real l:.state An·ount. For mort• tumph•tt• 1nfunnauon, mduding dMI'ge, and expenses. ~.·all I HOO 842-2776, extension S[l09, for rhe pmspel'tuses. Re.ult\u..•m t·are!'ully hl'i'ure you invest or send monL',\'· 

Associated Press 

PRAIRIE VIEW, Texas 
The marching bands from Prairie View A&M and Southern University were sus­pended from their next two football games Monday, two days after a brawl among the musicians. 
The fight, which occurred at halftime during the schools' neutral-site game in Beaumont on Saturday, resulted in thou­sands of dollars in damage to instruments and uniforms. 
Both schools are investigat­ing, but Southwestern Athletic Conference Commissioner Rudy Washington acted swift­ly. 
In addition to the suspen­sions, Washington demanded written reports on the incident 
.-be on his desk by next Monday. "We felt something had to be done, because actions like that will not be tolerated at our games," SWAC assistant com­missioner Lonza Hardy said, noting the action was neces­sary despite the drawing power of the conference's entertaining marching bands. Band members may attend the games as students, Hardy added. Calling the melee a "tragic incident," Larry Raab, Prairie View vice president for univer­sity operations, promised a thorough investigation. "PVAMU takes student safety and security very seriously, and we intend to ensure that our students and fans are ade­quately protected at any uni­versity-sponsored event," 

Haab said. 

Raab said the fighting start­ed when the Southern band. leaving the Lamar University field after performing, charged through Prairie View musi­cians who were lined up on the side"line ready to begin their performance. 
"They marched vigorously into our band members," he said. 
But Southern band director Isaac Greggs said the Prairie View band members blocked his group's exit from the field and then attacked drum major Terrell Jackson, who sustained minor injuries. 
When the fight erupted, stu­dents used their instruments as weapons, assailing each other with drumsticks and trombones. 
Please Recycle the Observer 
Lessons That Will Last A Lifetitne. 
OFFICER TRAINING SCHOOL 
Put that college degree to use by enroll1ng mto the Air Force Officer Training School. Upon successful completion of the Off1cerTrain1ng School, you will become a commissioned A1r Force officer with earned respect and benefits like-great starting pay, medical and 
dental care. man:  ement and travel  
AIM HIGH .AIR ~  opportunitle~ ~­nore on how to qualify and get your career soaring w1th the  
=-~'j=y--­ Air Force Off1cerTrainmg School, call  
~  1-800-423-USAF, or VISit our webs1te at  
www.airforce.com  www.a1rforce.com  



-
collaborative work towards the creation of a more just and humane world. 
Don McNeill, CSC Andrea Smith Shappell Executive Director Director, Senior Transition Programs Center for Social Concerns Center for Social Concerns 
Alive Amate House Annunciation Volunteer Com. Apostolic Volunteers Bon Secours Volunteer Min. Prog. Boys Hope/Girls Hope Bread for the World Capuchin Franciscan Vol. Corps -Midwest Capuchin Franciscan Vol. Corps -East Capuchin Youth and Family Ministries Carmelite Volunteer Community Catholic Charities -Baltimore Catholic Charities -Minneapolis Channel Program Christian Appalachian Project 


Associate Missionaries of the Assumption Cabrini Mission Corps Comboni Lay Missioners Farm of the Child (La Finca del Nino) Maryknoll Lay Missioners Maryknoll -China NO Volunteer Programme -Jamaica Sagrado Corazo -NO Program in Puerto Rico Volunteer Movement Claretian Volunteers Covenant House Faith Community Edmundite Mission Corps Franciscan Outreach Association Franciscan Volunteer Ministry Franciscan Volunteer Program Good Shepherd Volunteers 
Holy Cross Associates Holy Cross Vocations Office Humility of Mary Service Intercommunity Ministry Vol. Prog Jesuit Volunteer Corps -Midwest L'Arche-U.S. Central Region LaSallian Volunteers Little Sisters of the Poor 
Teaching Programs 

Alliance for Catholic Education Inner-City Teaching Corps NY Teacher Service Program Red Cloud Volunteers Marianist Voluntary Service Marist Volunteer Program Mercy Corps Missionary Cenacle Volunteers Passionist Lay Missioners Passionist Volunteers Providence Volunteer Ministry 
Redeemer Ministry Corps VESS VIDA Vincentian Service Corps -Central Vincentian Service Corps -East Visitation Associates Volunteers in an Act of Hope 
Non-Church Related Programs 
Americorps -21st Century Scholars Americorps -Chicago Gould Farm Rose Hill Center Peace Corps Teach for America 
uesday, September 22, I 998 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT page I 9 
-


FIRS'"f ANNUAL 

JULIAN SAMORA LECTURE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
FR. VIRGILIO ELIZONDO 
FOUNDER, MEXICAN AMERICAN CULTURAL CENTER; PROGRAM DIRECTOR, TV MINISTRY FOR THE ARCHDIOCESE OF SAN ANTONIO 




''GUADALUPE: MOTHER OF THE NEW CREATION'' 
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22 
4:00 P.M. 

AUDITORIUM CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION 
RECEPTION TO FOLLOW IN LOBBY OF CCE 
* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * 



SPANISH MASS 
STANFORD KEENAN HALL (WITH SPANISH •• 0 ~. CHOIR) 
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 24 5:15P.M. 
.. 

FOLLOWED BY PICNIC ALL ARE INVITED 
~ 


------------~ 
------~----~-~ ---~------~ -----­page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, September 22, 1998 
Men  Women  
1. Ryan Shay, ND 23:46 2. Colin Jones, Lewis 23:59 3. Micheal Melfi, Marist 24:17 4. Luke Watson, ND 24:24 5. Antonio Arce, ND 24:29 6. Tim Englehardt. ND 24.30 6. Ryan Maxwell, ND 24:30 8. Matt Horeled, Loyola 24:31 9. Dan Hoarty, Loyola 24:32 10. Ted Higgins, ND 24:37  1. Joanna Deeter, ND 17:25 2. Kasia Arient, Lewis 17:50 3. Beth Bayser, Lewis 17:58 4. Alana Crisman, Loyola 18:03 5. Collen Bolin, Loyola 18:08 6. Patti Rice, ND 18:12 7. Liz Grundzinski, Marist 18:14 8. Monika Stupian. Marian 18:16 9. Erika Jacobson, Marq. 18:20 10. Jenny Richey, Loras 18:32 The Observer/Ken Kearney  
With 20 seconds left in the 


LONDONPROG APPLICATION MEETING FOR FALL '99 AND SPRING '00 Tuesday, September 22, 1998 101 DeBartolo 6:30pm ALL SOPHOMORES WELCOME!  

Irish 
continued from page 24 
fourth place last weekend. 
Returning from an injury. junior Alison Klemmer ran to 11th place and is just starting to get her racing legs back. Sophomore Erin Olson and junior Erin Luby were 13th and 16th. respectively. 
These finishes show the 
determination of the women 
to improve with each meet. 
Luby improved six places from 
the previous meet and with 

Klemmer and junior Nicole LaSelle recovering from injuries and returning to full duty. the Irish will be a team to reckon with when the big meets come up later this fall. 
"You don't want to peak as a team right now, You want to build momentum for final meets." Deeter said. 
If the Irish runners haven't peaked yet, their competition should be wary. 
The men and women have won both meets they have attended this year and are set on the goal of proving they are a national power. 

Keenan 
continued from page 24 
six-all. On the ensuing two­point conversion, Costanza bat­tled his way into the end zone for the winning score. "He was the difference in the game," commented Min. 
If Keenan hopes to win more games in the future, they will need to come up with the big plays, much like they did on this day. As Min hopes, his team will have improved enough by the end of the sea­son to compete for another championship. 
Sorin 10, Knott 7 
The Sorin Otters play well with adversity. On Sunday, adversity is exactly what they got. 
After fumbling on their first play from scrimmage and then giving the ball up on their first punt reception, they were soon behind 7-0. "In the first half, we had a lot of mental mis­takes," said quarterback Pete Belden, who finished 7-12 pass­ing. 
Throughout the first half, the Otters seemed baffled by the Knott defense and were unable to get any running game mov­ing. With the running game nonexistent, Sorin resorted to Belden and the passing game. 
With time running out in the 
first half. Belden stepped back 
and found receiver Andy West 
open for a 40-yard touchdown 
reception. "Andy was huge," 
Belden said. 
West then came up big again, 
this time in the fourth quarter. 
game, the score was still tied at 
seven. Sorin was faced with 

fourth-and-one from the 12­yard line, when West was called upon to kick the win­ning field goal. He calmly walked out and converted the three points to seal the victory. 
After the game, talk was not only of Andy West's amazing efforts, but also of two freshman defensive backs, Doug Lawrence and Dave Fiorini. Their two interceptions not only ended Knott drives, hut also gave Sorin momentum. 
As Belden put it, "They really stepped up." 
The Otters have a full two weeks to enjoy their thrilling victory, as they have a bye next week. Following the bye, Sorin faces off against Keough, who were14-3 losers to Zahm. 

University of Notre Dame International Study Program 

INFORMATION MEETING WITH PROFESSORS PETER McQUILLAN PATRICK MURPHY and CLAUDIA KSELMAN 
Tuesday September 22. 1998 4:45 -5:45 P.M. I 02 DeBartolo 
Applications A vail able Application Deadline: December I. 1998 
Tuesday, September 22, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
• INTERHALL fOOTBAll 

Dillon destroys Carroll/St. Ed.'s in season opener 
By TED FOX Sporrs Writer 
Sunday was a day of fresh b1~ginnings and bitter ends. 
The Oillon versus CarrolVSt. was set on Dillon's first two plays Edward's contest at Stepan from scrimmage, gains of 10 and North was in all respects a one­then 12 yards on the ground. sided a!l'air, as Dillon rolled to a This early success rushing gave 34-0 season-opening victory. the squad confidence in its 
The tone for the entire contest ground attack, one dimension 


Today') September 22') 1998 For tin1e and location of meeting, call: 1-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan') C.S.C 
Sr.Mary Louise Gude'> C.S.C. 
All Meetings are private and confidential. 
-
-
-
The Palm Ill'" connected organizer keeps 
track of what's due and other important stuff. like your cute lab partner's phone number and Saturday's parties 

Touch the Ho!Sync' button to exchange and back up mfo WI!~ your PC (even download e-mail' you haven't read yeti. About the only thing it can't do to make your l1fe easier is wnte that paper. Organizers 
from Palm Computing start as low as $299·. 
• For an authorized Palm Ill retailer or campus 
computer store. call 1-B00-242-9005 or v1sit www palmcampus.com. 



Palm nr 
Connec1Ed Organimr 

that the coaches and captain Omar Munoz stressed as a necessity coming into the season. 
Leading Dillon's offensive assault was Duran "Slash" Alexander, who rushed for two TDs despite sitting out the last quarter and a half. 
Surprising everyone with his immediate production was fresh­man quarterback Colin Conway whose 40-yard touchdown pass to close out the !irst half put the game permanently out of reach for CarrolVSt. Edwards. 
CarrolVSt. Ed's captain Tom Nerring said that liis young team needs work learning its defen­sive assignments and aggressive­ness on the defensive front. 
In the end, however, "Dillon seemed to be hitting on all cylin­ders," Nerring said. 
Zahm 14, Keough 3 
In its clash against Keough, Zahm Hall got out to a 14-0 lead by the half and never looked back, winning 14-3. 
Leading Zahm to victory in a game, that was described by captain Colton King as Onot very clean/> were quarterback Matt Bohnenkamp and tight end Chris Bystedt. The combo hooked up on two touchdown passes, accounting for all of Zahm's scoring. One of these strikes hap­pened on the first drive of the game, setting the tone for the rest of the contest. according to King. 
In the losing e!l'ort, the back­field tandem of Kevin MaeAbee and Hyan Yorkry effectively pounded their ways between the tackles. Quarterback Travis Alexander operated ef!1ciently but was limited by the penntrat­ing Zahm defensive line, a unit that caused the frequent collapse of the pocket. 
Despitn the win, King knows his team still needs work, espe­cially on the defensive side of the ­ball. · 
This on the field education should make the team even stronger for its next contest, a bright prospect for a team that's already 1-0. 
Cahill leads PW to 6-0 victory over Lewis 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Sporrs Writer 
Lightning struck the Lewis ofl'ense twice on Saturday in the form of Pasquerilla West senior Amanda Cahill, whose two inter­ceptions keyed her dorm's 6-0 victory over Lewis Hall. 
Cahill's second interception of Lewis quarterback Tricia Lucke (8-29, 77 yards) stopped Lewis' final drive just eight yards short of the end zone, sealing the Purple Weasel victory. 
Cahill's fireworks began early when she picked oft' Lucke's first pass of the game and returned it 18 yards for a score. The PAT failed as the swarming defensive line of Lewis sacked PW quar­terback Liz McKillop (4-11. 4 7 yards) .for a 5 yard loss. 
Lucke also spent most of the afternoon under harassment from PW's dominating defensive duo of senior Mary Hepburn (3 sacks, 5 QB pressures, 1 Pass Defensed) and freshman Lisa Hodriguez (l sack, 3 QB pres­sures). 
"The defense. especially thr~ seniors, played phenomenal this afternoon," said PW's defensive coordinator. "The rookies also got some quality minutes. I am very pleased with their effort." 
When Lucke could escape the PW rush, her favorite target was freshman wide receiver Katie Schlosser (6 catches, 60 yards). Schlosser demonstrated tremen­dous athleticism throughout the game as she frequently avoidnd would-be-tacklers, turning 5­yard passes into 15-yard gains. 
Lewis' defense, led by Liz Foglia's two QB pressures, one sack and eight tackles -indud­ing two for losses -kept Lewis in the gamn. Tlw Chkks limitnd PW to a mere 53 yards of total o!l'ense. · 
Lnwis had one last chance to win the game with 54 seconds left whm1 a poor PW punt gave Lewis nxcellent linld position at the PW 45. Lucke executed a flawless hurry-up offensn, con­necting with Schlossnr twice, to move the ball to the PW eight with 18 seconds left. llowever, Cahill's last seeond hcroies thwarted Lewis' chances. ... 

...... 

·uS lltttr gou 1111 P~lm Ill 019Mol'lf '' S199 All Pl•n' US ~1111ti':U ''v'I.K~'.K Cor.ntcttlrl kit rwquu~d ltw MolCJto1U)Il CUMi.:h...."i nd llill.t'~ 1 tlot Po~lln' ~~~~Mid hPIIIIIt lPP...:IhlJ,J oWid wmt ""~1 •o ~ulitotJ ~nh'wJti nQt o~v.t•l~bltlo• Mattlllosh. t-•~&lll lll•rou1' ~ht.t\111\,tC: lhl"'t ~YHt'O'II snld tEo.~l'.,ty t 19'Jft lO:UI" furc. Y.l'll Itt! J•:cm l~u. r Jim (t.Yt.purr~ . .)1-3 Hor~vnt Jrt 't:9'~Ji>!o:J r•ldWYIII~' W".Nm Ill P.alm rl't P.alnrr.i IDQO Ho!SY'Y. r,.,., • .., l"t I'Jitn 0:11nputrng pl•:!orm ltriJO 3Jf. Ullltm,rlr.s tJ/ PJ~In CO'I":NI·fl11!'.: r~~Jrrll!lf..OI~JIJhm 
page 22 The Observer· SPORTS 
• V\JOMH(S ~NTHlHAlL fOOTBALl 
.-. Walsh defeats Howard, 6-0 

By BRIAN HOBBINS 
Sporrs Writer 
Sunday's interhall match up between the Wild Women of Walsh and the Howard Ducks was expncted to be intense, but no one could predict the the nail bitPr that resulted. 
Looking to maintain the consis­tPncy that provided them with an undefeated season last fall. the Wild Women would have to quickly lind a receiver to replace last year's sensation Maria. Hodriguez. 
After several trips up and down the field, the half ended in a scoreless draw. It would not be until midway through the second half that Walsh quarterback 

Tuesday, September 22, 1998 
twice in a row, while teammate Angela Bauer took a pass in from her tailback position. The strong Lyons dnfense led by sticky fingered Lisa Thomas, who contributPCI with two picks,. and linebacker Chrissy Scotti. 
BP captain .Jenny Choi admits that the loss was "a real wake up call for us." 
The role of cellar dweller is not unfamiliar to this BP squad. however. They worked their way up from dead last in the fall of '97 and admit they are used to being the underdog. Jessica Martin proved to be a ray of hope for the BP defense con­tributing a key pick. Choi dis­misses BP's rough debut to a SYH the night before. 
"The dance played a factor, 
people were a little sluggish," 
said Choi. 
Carolyn Parnell would hook up with Nani Au for a ten-yard strike to break the scoreless tie. A failed conversion would keep the game interesting, however. 
Howard freshman quarterback Jill Veselik wasn't going to throw in the towel. Her razzle-dazzle scrambles under pressure kept a defensively oriented Howard team alive. 
Amy Krayer, captain of Walsh admitted Veselik was outstand­ing in her debut and felt lucky when Veselik had a long break called back for flag guarding. 
"If it hadn't been for the penal­ty they probably would have scored," Krayer admited. Veselik was pleased with her perfor­mance but admitted. "the first couple of plays were really nerve wracking." 
Unfortunately, the enforcement of some ques­tionable blocking calls left the Howard offense decimated. A stellar perfor­mance by Emily Borg and the rest of the Howard defense provided the offense with one last shot at the endzone. 
Led by Veselik the Howard offense quickly found themselves in the red zone with time run­ning short. In the final tense min­utes, Jackie Schmitt, Melissa Beiting and the rest of the Walsh defense staged a momentous goal-line stand to dose the door on a 6-0 Walsh Hall victory. 
Pangborn 12, Badin 0 
This late afternoon contest provided spectators with what was to be the most controversial game of the day. 
Badin Hall clashed with Pangborn in a game that would boast the appearance of four quarterbacks. After an early injury on a rule infraction tackle, Badin sophomore quarterback Prissy Clements' season ended with a disloeatf)d knee. Clements' replacements had never taken game snaps and were shaky in their perfor­
mance. 
Additionally, a long break for the injury de!lated Badin's spir­its. But on the other side of the token, the break provided the Pangborn defense valuable time to regroup. Quarterback Jill Depaul and the rest of her Pangborn offense had already put 12 points on the board with the aid of sophomore receiver Julie Carbo! and freshman run­
. ning back Lynn Canzano at the time of the injury. 
Captain Michelle Kippes said, "It is a testament that the defense could maintain their heads throughout the break." 
Deprived of halftime, since injury time was so long, a deci­mated Badin core failed to put any numbers on the board and Pangborn wrapped up their first victory of the season. Katie Dillenberger knows her Badin squad will have to quickly move on and "teach new quarterbacks the plays." She admited that the team is now feeling, "a little under the gun." In contrast, Kippes and the rest of the "rock star" Badin team are looking for­ward to the clnllenges that are ahead. 

Lyons 24, Breen Phillips 0 
In a game that broke from the day's tradition of hotly contested battles, Lyons Hall crushed Breen Phillips 24-0. 
Lyons' captain Katy Yanez attributes the scoring bonanza to a well established running game. 
:·we were able to get the run­ning game open early, which opened up our passing," said Yanez. 
Yanez was key in the establish­ment of the run scoring first on a 10-yard dash. Tight-end stand­out Meghan Chandler scored 

CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 


The Center for Social Concerns provides a variety of educational and experiential opportuni­
ties for the entire campus community to think about and act upon issues of peace and justice. 
Look for our Learning Through Service and Social Action sections in the Observer to learn 
more about Center offerings. Decide how you would like to get involved! 
... w 
Wednesday, September 23: Senior Transition Programs. 
Thursday, September 24: Courses and Faculty Opportunities. 
E 
Thursday, October 1: Community Partnerships and Student Leaders. 
Hospitality is another important part of the Center's work on campus. Centerhospitality includes: a coffee house and kitchen, a large multi-purpose room, seminar rooms, a resource room, a library,
....... 
a reflections room, and vehicles. These facilities are availqble for use by approved student and
L 

community groups. Contact the Center at 631-5293 to reserve rooms for lectures, films, liturgies, meals, other gatherings, and to inquire about vehicle use.
c 

0 
Center Hours: M-F 8:00a.m.-10:00 p.m. Saturday noon-2:00p.m.* 
Sunday 6:00 p.m. -9:00 p.m. 
M 
*On home football weekends, the Center opens 2 112 hours before game time and closes 112 hour before game time. 
Please stop by! You can also reach the Center at 631-5293 or nd.cntrsc.l @nd.edu. Check out our web page at http://nd.edu:80/-ndcntrsc/ We look forward to meeting you!
E .The Center for SoCial Concerns pro,~fd.es-educational experiences in socialconcerns­
inspired by Gospel values and Catholic social teachings. Central to this prncess Is enhancing the spirlto11l and intellectual awareness of students, faculty, staff. und 
... ,.,.umni/ae about today's tomplex social realities, calling us all to service and action for 
a more just and humane world. 

------------~-­
Tuesday, September 22, 1998 
The Observer • TODAY page 23 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD NO 
DAN SULLIVAN 

YOUR HOROSCOPE 
EUGENIA LAST 

HAPPY IIIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Spend some time delving into life's mysteries. Spiritual growth will make you more appreciative of what you have. An exhilarnting on-the-job experience could alter your career plans. Heart-to-heart talks will nur­ture a promising love relationship~ Your social life accelerates in late summer. Exercising tighter control over family spending will makeo a vacation possible late in '97. Reach out to a newcomer \\oho lives alone. A business alliance flourishes. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actress Joanne Wood­ward. author John Steinbeck. first daughter Chelsea Clinton. consumer
FOXTROT BILL AMEND 
advocate Ralph Nader. ARIES (March 21-April 19): Not a good time to make impulsive
RIGHT. THAT'S 52 WEEKS WITH 
ANY

PAIGE, HELP ME ouT. I LET'S SEE... 
changes at work or h9me. Maintain
CMH DECIDE WHAT To You'VE 
_) You AS HER BoYFRIEND... 
SUGGESTioNS? DoES 

the status quo in a romantic relation­

6ET DENISE FoR OUR BEEN ANNIVERSAR"''. DATING foR 
Oil P:.RT 
r.:t~n••• 23 Chide, as a child 
24 Knight's protection 25 Adolescent rock fan 26 Mel's on "Alice," for one 28 Lolled 

1 0 CR.gasons to 6e Pliysica{{y }lctive CJ'oday 
stre-ss manage-me-nt helps preuent osteoporosis improved immune system functioning lmptzotJes sel6-esteem 

helps •~ontrol hyper·tension 
f£educes f£isk ot disease improves quality ofsleep bOOStS Creativity . For more Info. Contact: 

WE!GHT MANAGMENT decreases appetttew!"::.:~::u);::~oort 
47 Stun gun 48 Egyptian snake 49Dazzling 
performer 54 Victory sign 55 Cassettes 56 Speak 57 Be mistaken 58 Bewildered 59 Former Russian 
sovereigns 
DOWN 
1 Gangster's gun 2Chicken-­
king 3 Barbecued treat 4 Antwerp 
residents 5 Unity 6 Pirates' plunder 7 Zurich's peaks 8 Sharp bark 9 Periods just 
past sunset 10 Infers 11 Egotistical 
conversational­ist 12 Sheeplike 13 Like shiny floors 18 Despise 

52 WEEKS WITH 'i'OU AS A PIVoTAL PLAYER IN 
50, ALTHOUGH THAT WOULDN'T WORK ON 
ME, IT WORKS FINE ON OTHER PEOPLE'? 
30 Track official 32 Try to stop a 
squeak again 33 Snappish 35 To an extent 36 Quotes in book 
reviews 38Rummy variation 39 Depose gradually and 
politely 41 --Angeles 42 Pugilist's 
weapon 
and enthusiasm. Your friends and financial resources are not inex­haustible. Be affectionate. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Greater self-assurance will convince others that you know what you arc doing. Someone from your past wants to hear from you. Consulting an old auuress book will vield valu· ahle information. · 
LIBRA tSept. 23-0ct. 2:!): Retirees have a lot to offer their community. Stop being a spectator and get involved! Your organization­al skills will make a bi~ uiffercnce to a chantable organization. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Be cautious whl!re a new business venture is concerned. Although the road ahead appears clear. there could be pitfalls. Let a romance develop in its own sweet time. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): New acquaintances mav not be all they seem. Forgive someone who made a mistake. A toleranl attitude is the key to better rapport with a sibling. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Someone may not be int.: · csted in hearing your plans. lnMead ·i tak· ing offen,e. seek a more rec pti,·e audience. Your romantic partp,•r would like to take the initiative k change. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You and a co-worker may be on dif· ferent wave lengths now. Try to stay out of this person's way. An unusual assignment gives you a chance to impress higher-ups. 
PISCES !Feb. 19-March 20): Face a relationship problem head· on. Calm discussion is needed. n• •I heated debate. Be honest if you have not done as much as you can to help a loved one.
YOU CAN IMPROVE AN EMPLOYEE.'S PERFORM· 
1\I\ICE  BY MAKING  HIM  
FEEL  BAD  ABOUT  
Hlt'\5ELF.  

-
.. 
-
MAALO'X.
I CoME
" 
SCOTT ADAMS 
I'LL REAO YOUR 
FAULTS ONE AT A. TIME. TELL t'\E WHEN 
YOUR. PERFORMANCE 
IMPROVES. 

ship. A lesson learned in the past 
influences your plans for the future. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): A 
member of the opposite sex is inter­
ested but shy. A friendly gesture or 
invitation could melt the ice. Be 
punctual to all appointments. A good 
financial adviser is wonh his weight 
in gold. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): It is 
up to you to promote domestic har­
mony. Avoid choosing sides in a 
spat Someone may ask you 10 pay 
his expenses on a special outing. Are 
jOU ready for a bigger commitment~ 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Major decisions are best postponed until after lunch. You are more like­ly to chalk up financial gains late in the day. Investments involve a cer­tain amount of risk; rely on expert advice. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Avoid getting in over your head even if you are brimming with confidence 
43 Desire deeply 50 Photo--(pol's 44 Part of a news events) stairway 51 Local educ. 45 Term of address support group in "Roots" 52 Always, in verse 47 Overly 53 Southern precious, to a Pacific and Briton others: Abbr. 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 



Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
ACROSS 1 Greta who never actually said "I vant to be alone" 6 Howled like a hound 
11 This instant 14 Extraterrestrial 15 Popeye's 
sweetie 
16 Gardner of Tinseltown 17 Restaurant 
gadabout 19 Blend 20 Pesky insects 21 Christians'-­
Creed 23 Surfeit 26 Made fractions 27 Fold, as paper 
280ne­dimensional 29 Forebodings 30 Zippy flavors 31 Uneaten morsel 34 Chaney Jr. and Sr. 35 Hats' slats 36 Fencing blade 37 Dehydrated 38 Star-to-be 39 Montreal base bailers 
40Held responsible (for) 
42 "Accept the situation!" 43 Bing Crosby or Rudy Vallee, e.g. 45 Penny-pinching 48 Coarse-toothed tool 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
• "' "' • • • • • • • e • "·• It ., '( W' " -., • 1 r r • 
........ * ............. ,.. .......................... -........ ---..........&. .......--.. ...... --.......... -... 1
• 


• Walsh blanked 
• Florence Griffith 
Howard this weekend 
Joyner passed away yes­
in women's interhall 
terday due to heart fail­
football action. 
ure.







PORTS 
p.15 
p.22 
O THE 

page 24 BSERVER 
• MrN's Tf:NNlS 

Irish take first at Invitational 
By M. SHANNON RYAN 
Saint Mary's Editor 
In 90-dngree Texas heat, Notre Dame's mp,n's tPnnis team madn its own fire at the Hicc Invitational. 
In tlw first tournament of the year, the Irish displayed a strong singles showing with a consolation A-Plight win and a 13-Flight victory. 
Freshman Casey Smith blast­ed Baylor's Csongor Bibza. who was forced to retire after two sets against Smith. Smith used his powerful forehand to deliver the 6-4. 7-6 loss to Bibza and earn the B-Flight championship win. 
In the process. Smith used his first collegiate tournament to impress his coach. 
"H1~ had a very strong tour­nament," head coach Bobby Bayliss said. "He shows a lot of poise and fire. lie showed ~orne .?right points for the future. 
The future is also promising 

, 
--
The Irish got strong support from the freshman class this weekend. 
• Cnoss CtWNTlW 


Irish runners dominate weekend meet 
The Observer/John Daily • ~NTH!HALL FnsmM.L Knights edge Studs •In opener By WES JACOBS Spores Writer  
Coming off Keenan's 1997 interhall football champi­onship, many expected them to again dominate foes in 1998. 1998 brings a new season, however, not to mention new teams. Sunday's hard-fought 8-6 victory over Stanford illus­trates what the 1998 season for Keenan looks like. "We lost some key players," Doug Min explained. "i\.s we've been saying all along, we need to look at the season one game at a ti~e, and improve week to week. Close games will be the norm in 1998. With the consistent improvement, however, Keenan eould onee again be a team to reckon with come playoff time. Its first game was nothing short of a defensive struggle. The teams traded punts. play­ing the game of field position. At halftime, the score remained knotted at zero. Stanford came out strong to begin the second half and took control of the ball. ror much of the third quar­ter, they pounded out running plays and marched down the field. Soon enough, Keenan found themselves in a 6-0 hole. However, as champions do, they climbed out of the hole. Running back Nick Costanza led the way, tying the score at  
see KEENAN I page 20 Volleyball . . vs. Calvin College Wednesday, 7 p.m. Soccer vs. Franklin College Thursday, 4 p.m.  

with the addition of' freshman Andrew Laflin. After losing to Bibza in the first round. left­handnr Laflin rebounded to claim the consolation draw with a 6-1, 7-6 take of Tnxas A & M's Gonzalez Anderson. 
"lie showed he can compote with anyone," Bayliss said. "lin's as solid on tho courts as anyone we have." 
The freshmen will provide a support system to the already strong backbone of upperclass­men. 
"The strength of our team is definitely our depth," Bayliss said. 
Although junior all-1\.meriean Ryan Sachire. ranked eighth nationally. sat out along with injured Matt Horsnly and Brian Pattl~rson, others provided vet­eran stamina. 
In Flight A singles, Andy Warford terminated Texas A & M's Cody llubbell, 6-1. 6-1. Hubbell had beaten Warford's younger brother, Luke, on Saturday. 
"Andy Warford has improved significantly," Bayliss said, noting the senior's dominating volley and backhand. · 
Bayliss hopes to see Warford's backhand service returns improve and add to his already overpowering fore­hand. 
In addition. sophomore Matt Daly displayed his improve­ments since last year. Daly fin­ished third in B-Fiight consola­tions singles by defeating Hiee's Prakash Venkataraman 6-1, 7-6. 
Junior Hob Warn also per­formed well. winning the D­Flight consolation after sopho­more teammate i\.shok Haju was forced to n~tire. 
The only area of disappoint­ment came with doubles, where the Irish all bowed out early. 
Bayliss said he is not dis­couraged, however, because the team has not had signifi­cant practice time to work out the kinks. 
By ALAN WASIELEWSKI 
Sports Writer 
Last Friday, the Notre Dame men's and women's cross country teams took first place in the National Catholic Invitational held at the remnants of the Notre Dame Golf Course. 
Over 25 teams from catholic colleges and univer­sities across the nation com­peted in scorching tPmpera­tures under the high September sun. The weath­er was hot. but the Irish runners cooled the competi­tion with a dominating per­
formancl~. 
The top five men from Notre Dame all placed in the top seven. 
Sophomore Byan Shay took first with an outstanding time 0 f 2 3:4 (). shay was chased most of the way by Colin Jones from Lewis University, who was literally right on his heels. 
"lie was sitting on nw and even stPpped on the back of my feet a few times," Shay said. "I knew that I would be ablo to distance myself in the last mile, though." Shay is now the two-timo defend­ing champion of the National Catholic, besting last years winning run of 24:53. 
Not far behind Shay was the pack of Irish runners who ran together for most of the race and finished no more than six seconds apart. Freshman Luke Watson led the pack running another solid race after finishing sixth in the previous meet. Right behind Watson were 

seniors Tony /\reo, Tim Englehardt and Hyan Maxwell. 
"It was a good beginning race. We ran well as a pack and wen~ pushed hard by the Loyola runners," Maxwell said. 
Loyola Chicago ended up 30 points off the winning Notre Dame seore of 23. 
The Irish runners seem to relish running together in the paek. 
"This meet was a good opportunity to get the group together," i\.ree explained. "Now we have a good base. a lot of miles under our belt." 
For junior JoAnna Deeter, it was just another first place finish in the National Catholic. Deeter is now the three-time defending champ and was never really chal­leng!~d for the entire race. She recorded a time of 
17:25. a full 25 seeonds ahead of the closest competi­tor. 
When asked if it was diffi­cult to run without close competition, Deeter pointed out the team achievement before her own. The Irish took f'irst in the meet, beat­ing Loyola Chicago by 22 points 
"This was a team building run. We were determined to improve from last week's run and we did." Deeter said. 
The five scoring finishes registered by the women were all in the top 16 of the run. Junior Patti Hice fin­ished sixth following her 
see IRISH 1page 20 


The Observer/Kevin Dalum 

All five Notre Dame runners finished in the top seven of this weekend's National Catholic Invitational held at Notre Dame. 
® ® 
vs Purdue 
vs. Seton Hall 
Saturday, 1:30 p.m. 
fl @ 
October 2, 8 p.m. 



SPORTS 
$ ~­
vs. Indiana

·\-.!t/
ATA 
Friday, 7:30 p.m. 

Notre Dame lnviational 
~::::~;· ~:::::•. 

vs. St. John's October 2, 3:30 p.m. 
\: =::M' Saturday, 7:30p.m.


GLANCE 
• 





