------~----------------------------------------~-~----------·~------------------------------~­

Wednesday, April 22, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No. 130 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Hatch highlights University diversity efforts 

SMC Rome program reopens application process for next year 
By DAVID FREDDOSO Senior SrafTWrirer 

The Saint Mary's College Home program will con­tinue to accept Notre Dame students this semester, despite a temporary shutdown in the application process. 
Financial concerns had threatened to limit the number of Notre Dame students who could go on the program. 
According to Michael Francis, Assistant Provost for International Studies, 50 students had signed up to go to Home when the application process was halted. 
"We hadn't budgeted for this number," he said. "For a little while. it looked as if it would create a problem." 
llowever. after turning away applications for a short period, Francis said, the program has reopened and will be accepting applications until May 1. 
"No order ever came down to cut [the program] back," Francis said. There was previously no limit on enrollment, but the number of applicants was so great this year that there was concern over the amount of tuition that would be taken out of Notre Dame and put into the Saint Mary's Rome program, he noted. 
When the application process was temporarily stopped, administrators looked over the numbers and decided that more students could be accepted without much damage. 
The application process was reopened, and as a result, "more students are going to go to Rome next year than went this year," Francis said. He attrib­uted the increase to the Italian department which "has stirred up a lot of interest." 
''I'm sorry this happened," he said. 
Meanwhile, other international study programs will be expanding. The London program, according to its director Anastasia Gutting, will be expanding from 90 to 120 students next spring. 
In addition, Gutting said, "We are now officially an undergraduate London program as opposed to an Arts and Letters London Program." 
New courses will be offered in London in engi­neering, science, and business, she said, "so that all students will be able to fit in." Previously, only a very limited course selection was available for Notre Dame students in London. 
The Innsbruck program will expand by 25 per­cent. while programs in Toledo, Angiers, Japan, and Jerusalem would also be taking more students in future years, according to Francis. 
By ERICA THESING 
News Writer 
The Office of the Provost is cur­rently working on three main ini­tiatives to improve diversity issues on campus, but major changes take time, according to Nathan Hatch, Provost. 
Hatch, who met with students and faculty during a listening session last night, outlined his initiatives and heard suggestions, including the addition of a mandatory multicultural class for all freshman students. 
Sophomore Michael Fierro, who originally proposed such a course, suggested that a diversity course replace one semester of the freshman physical education course. Students have plenty of opportunity for physical activity through interhall athletics, according to Fierro, and would benefit from a diversity course. 
"You said that change takes place over time, but time is run· ning out. Something needs to be done," Fierro told Hatch. "If you don't make it mandatory, the 

Spring jam ... 
people who need it won't take it." 
Freshman Tamra Williams supported Fierro and explained that such a course is necessary to make Notre Dame students com­petitive in a diverse world. 
"The major problem on this campus is that people don't know how to work together. We need to know how to speak and talk with cultural diversity," she said. "I think it affects everyone. It's not just a minority issue. I think it's an obligation of Notre Dame, who prides themselves in bring­ing us all together, to teach us how to live together. " 
Although the provost was receptive to the suggestion, he expressed concern that the large number of students involved would make such an undertaking very difficult to implement. Hatch tossed out the option of making such a course voluntary, as opposed to mandatory. 
In addition to the high number of students involved, Hatch expressed concern over the way to set up such a curriculum. It would require many instructors to teach a course to the entire freshman class and synchroniz­ing their varied teaching styles would be difficult, he said. 
"Faculty are independent intel­lectuals and the last thing they want to do is be given a common curriculum to teach," Hatch said. 
Besides the addition of a new diversity course, audience mem­bers raised questions about affir­mative action in hiring and admissions practices, the possi­bility of a post-graduate program in ethnic studies and retention of minority faculty and students. 
Hatch outlined the initiatives of his office, including a "targets of opportunity" program to help departments hire exceptional minority faculty, even when the money for doing so is not expressly available in their bud­gets. At this time, approximately 80 of the 900 full-time faculty at Notre Dame are minorities and only 45 of the 680 tenure track faculty members are minorities. 
The University is also in the 
see HATCH I page 6 


The Observer/Kevin Dalum 

Sophomore John Huston and his band, the Transoms, played a concert yesterday in LaFortune Ballroom. Chris Goddard and the Skalcoholiks also played during the show. The Antostal celebration continues today with a pizza picnic on the South Quad at 11 :30 a.m. and a "Hippie Fest'' from 4 to 7 p.m. on the Fieldhouse Mall. St. Edward's Hall Charity Carnival also continues on North Quad today from 2 to 6 p.m. 


Saint Mary's develops new D.C. program 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
During next semester's fall break, students from Saint Mary's College will have the opportunity to descend upon United States' capital city. 
Organized by business administra­tion and economics professor Claude Renshaw, the trip to Washington, D.C., will provide students with the chance to explore the city on their own and through organized tours and activities. 
The week-long tour originated in 1994 as a field trip for the Saint Mary's Young Republicans. 
"The first trip was more politically oriented," Renshaw said. "We met with Senator Dan Coates, a republi­can senator from Indiana, and also visited the Republican National Committee." 
Renshaw added that certain con­nections helped to make the first trip more interesting. Coates arranged for one of his staff members to give the group a VIP tour of the capitol build­ing. 
After the success of the first trip, people outside of the Young Republicans began to show interest and Renshaw decided to expand the program to allow students who were not members of the club to go on the trip. 
"The trip is not necessarily a field trip for Republicans. I've taken most of the political things out and we've added more tourist activities since we didn't have time to include those on the previous trip," Henshaw said. 
Among the landmarks the group will visit are the Holocaust museum, Smithsonian museums, the FBI, the National Cathedral, Ford's Theater, Arlington Cemetery, Mount Vernon and the Bureau of Engraving. Additionally, participants will have a chance to take in a play at the Kennedy Center, the cost of which is included in the trip's fee. 
Although Renshaw said that he does not want the trip to be politically oriented, it is hard to avoid some contact with politics when you are in the city that is the heart of the American government. 
This is where Renshaw's connec­tions come in. 
Students will be treated to VIP tours of the White House as well as the Capitol. Also, the group may have 
see D.C. I page 6 
·--------------~------~---------------------------------­
page 2 

• INSIDE COLUMN 

Let's Talk 
Last Tuesday, ESPN held 
a town meeting televised 
live from Houston regard­
ing race and sports. The 
panel induded 10 black 
and white athletes, coach­
es and administrators 
from the college and pro­
fessional ranks. Dan Cichalski 
Prnsident Clinton took Senior Staff Writer 
the time to sit in on the 
discussion as well. further emphasizing its 
importance. 

It was a dillcrent and much-needed pro­
gram on a station that generally entertains its 
viewers with game dips, annoying analysts ­
here I am specifically thinking of all their foot­
ball and basketball airheads -and sports­
casters known for catch phrases like Rich 
Eisen's "Gat it" and Stuart Scott's bus driver 
analogy. 

It was an informative and interesting pro­
gram. ESPN will air it again oil May 3 at 11:30 
a.m. and it would be worthwhile to watch. 
One of the most important aspects of it was 
simply the fact that it occurred. University of 
Georgia athletic director Vince Dooley sug­
gested that what Clinton may best be remem­
bered for when his presideney ends is his 
efforts to promote discussion about race in 
America. Simply talking about this country's 
race relations is a step in the right direction, 
an idea Clinton surely advocates. 
That is also what Notre Dame needs: open 
discussion about its relationship problems. It 
is no secret that this campus community 
needs to open up dialogue concerning the var­
ious groups that make up the student body 
and faeulty at what should be one of the 
gn~atest universities in America. Race and 
sexual orientation are the two areas that need 
this discussion the most. 
Today, The Observer runs the first of three 
parts in an in-depth look at homosexuals at 
Notre Dame. Faculty, students and an admin­
istration reaction are the three areas that will 
be covered. It is an impressive effort and 
worthwhile project by students who saw the 
need was there for this type of report and put 
it together. It is the kind of production that 
others in the journalism realm look at and 
wish they could have done themselves. I cer­
tainly feel that way. 
I believe one of the responsibilities of a 
nowspapcr is to examine issues like these in 
its community, present all sides of the argu­
mont, and let the readers make their own 
decisions. I hope this series does just that. 
Bunning these personal stories could generate 
desperately needed discussion, but it is up to 
us from here. 

Those alllicted with dosed minds may not 
even give the section a glance. Ignore them; 
we don't need people like that involved in a 
dialogue like this. Nothing has to be settled 
right away. Let's start small by talking openly 
and with open minds first. 
It is my wish that when I graduate next 
month and leave Notre Dame for the last time 
as a student, the campus I will return to some 
weekend in the fall will already be better than 
it is today. llopefully, this intelligent commu­
nity can look at the race and orientation 
issues -to name just two -and each person 
will allow him or herself to consider the feel­
ings of the other side. not just his or her own 
views, opinions and biases. 
It can only make Notre Dame a better place for everyone. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


• TOOAY's STAFF 
News Scene Matt Loughran Michelle Barton 
Tim Logan Graphics Erica Thesing John King Lisa Maxbauer 
Production Sports Dan Cichalski Anthony Bianco 
Lab Tech Brian Kessler 
JefTHsu Viewpoint 
Mike Boland Tara Churik 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday txccpt during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a mc:mber of che AssociacC'd Pres~. All reproduction righr!~ are re!lerved. 
The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, April 22, 1998 


c"~l'uOutside the Dome 
-~ _.,:<'~\\ 

~/ J Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Officials call chemical waste dumping an 'isolated incident' 
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah 
The discovery of hazardous chemical waste in a University of Utah dumpster earlier this month emphasized the importance of proper disposal of chemical waste by research labs on campus. 
However, department officials say this was an isolated incident and stu­dents should not be alarmed. 
According to Steve Manning, manag­er of hazardous waste for the University Environmental Health and Safety office, a chemistry professor discovered some dangerous chemicals disposed of in the dumpster between the south biology and life sciences buildings on Wednesday, April 1. 
The faculty member duct taped the dumpster dosed and placed a note on it asking that it not be taken away by the garbage truck driver. 
The professor then contacted Michael Sparr, administrative manag­

Sparr called Manning and asked him to come out and investigate the situa­tion. 
Wearing gloves and protective cloth­ing, it took Manning an hour to remove all the chemicals, leaving some bottles which contained harmless substances such as salt and charcoal. 
In almost 20 years of working for Environmental Health and Safety, Manning said he had never seen any­thing this severe. Because this was an isolated incident, Sparr said it should not "create unwarranted concnrns in the minds of some people." 
Manning said the incident was unusual and must have been perpe­trated by someone who was unfamiliar with procedures. 
Environmental Health and Safety technicians identified 56 individual chemicals. many extremely hazardous. The list included such highly corrosive substances as ferric chloride and potassium hydroxide, the toxic com­pound cupric sulfate, silver, which is considered a heavy metal pollutant, and the oxidizer calcium nitrate, which could have caused a lire. 
Some of the bottles appeared to be 20 or 30 years old. "Somebody must have been cleaning out their lab," Manning said. 
According to University of Utah guidelines, labs are required to pack­age hazardous matnrials properly for transport. 
• UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND 
Intoxicated student falls from window 
COLLEGE PARK, Md. 
A Maryland student is in critical condition after falling 
from his third-floor window early Friday morning, university 
police said. The sophomore criminology and criminal justice 

major was heavily intoxicated when he fell into mud and 
bushes in front of the dorm around 2:30a.m. on Friday, said 
university police spokeswoman Mary Brock. When police 
arrived, Brock said the victim was semi-conscious and unre­
sponsive. He was taken to the hospital and treated for a 
bruised lung and lacerated liver. The man was unable to 

have surgery on Friday because his blood alcohol level was 
too high. Brock would not give the victim's name and could 
not release his blood alcohol level because he is not being 

charged with a crime. The student had surgery over the 
weekend, Brock said. She said there were no signs of foul 
play, but also did not know what caused the man to fall from 
the window. "We are not sure exactly what happened," said 
Seth Giller, a resident assistant on the victim's floor. 
• WESTERN KENTUCKY UNIVERSITY 
Hailstorm damage exceeds $4 million 
BOWLING GREEN, Ky. 

Shards of broken glass, a swamped Downing University Center and cars dabbled with hail-strewn dents will be lasting reminders of Thursday's severe hailstorm that ravaged the campus. Injuries won't. Campus police reported no serious injuries or deaths throughout the ordeal. The hail began falling at 3:30 Thursday afternoon, and when the ensuing rain ended 5 hours later, every car in one parking lot was at least partially submerged. Ice clusters punched four holes in DUC's roof. flooding three floors and sending water cascading down elevator shafts. Facilities Management employees were frantically pump­ing the water, concerned the fourth floor would collapse. "DUC's roof is nonexistent," said Jerry Tuggle, assistant director of Facilities Management. "It was heartbreak­ing." Tuggle reported 300 to 400 windows gone from campus buildings. Preliminary damage estimates are as high as $4 million. 
• CORNELL UNIVERSITY 
Fires lead to arrest of frat president 
ITHACA, N.Y. 

A fraternity ritual involving lire caused heavy smoke that set ofT the fire alarm and led to the arrest of one member of Phi Delta Gamma and the evacuation of the fraternity house last Thursday. The Cornell Police arrested Dave Dolpe, pres­ident of Phi Delta Gamma, for reckless endangerment, according to Cornell Police Department Captain Handy Hausner. The 911 Dispatch Center received notification of the fire through a lirn alarm aetivation around 1:30 a.m. 
C.U. Environmental Health and Safety Units and CUPD arrived on the scene moments before the Ithaca Fire Department and reported "a heavy smoke condition" in the basement of the house, according to IFD Lieutenant Michael Schnurle. Schnurle said the fire lighters located the source of the smoke and smelh~d an odor of "dense llammable liq­uids," which they believed to be lighter fluid. The IFD evac­uated the building for over an hour and ventilated it. No one was injured in the incident. 
• MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY 
Search for ex-student ends in tragedy 
EAST LANSING, Mich. 

The search for Ryan Getz officially came to a tragic end Monday as county medical examiners announced that the man pulled from the Hed Cedar Hiver on Saturday was the missing former MSU student. Coroners also ruled that Getz's death was accidental, resulting from drowning and hypothermia after he fell into the rivnr's iey waters. Gordon Spink, an Ingham County deputy medical examin­er, said recognizable marks such as scars were used to identify the Lapeer native. who had been missing since New Year's Eve. "It is him," he said. "It dnfinitnly was Ryan Getz." An autopsy showed no signs of foul play, Spink said. "Every indication is that he probably went into the river that night," he said. "There's nothing to point other­wise." Pat Getz, Ryan's mother, said Jwr family mmnbers are trying to rebuild their lives in the wake of losing a sor1. "We had prepared ourselves," she said from her home Monday. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl.. WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeathcr"' forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, April 22. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
/"''''''''''''"''''' 
.. , ...##~~'" 
H L 
I
Wednesday ~ 65 44 
... "''' ... 
Thursday ~ 65 43: Friday ~ 65 45 Saturday ~ 65 41~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1998 AccuWealher, Inc. 
Pressure
/ J .·· 


Sunday . ..-lb 66 45 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STDRMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
')·.....0.1..""--~/ ...'\.t,:1 


4,Q,~A.Q.8 i) ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy Vts Associated Press GraohicsNet 
Albany  68  40  Fargo  74  43  Reno  80  47  
Billings  78  49  Memphis  67  50  Richmond  60  48  
Boston  66  47  New York  68  48  St. Paul  70  42  
Charlotte  56  48  Omaha  72  37  Sacramento  82  55  
Detroit  64  42  Phoenix  96  68  Seattle  68  47  


---~-----~~----· 
a e 3 
' 



omens 
ews 
Wednesday, April, 22, 1998 

WOMEN IN THE: MUSIC WORLD 
Musical Achievements Through Time 
o 
300 -Female instrumentalists and singers were in such short supply in Athens that male patrons began fight­ing in the streets over their services. 

o 
1150 -St. Hildegard of Bingen composed her "Symphonia Harmoniae Celestium Revelationum," which con­sisted of 77 songs. 

o 
1200 -Lyrics in the 13th century Latin collection "Carmina Burana" referred to dance and the accompany­ing songs as "feminine activities." 

o 
1698 -Francesca Margerita de l'Epine and her sister, Maria Gallia, became the most popular singers in London. 

o 
1790 -Viennese singer Kathlerina Cavalieri is praised by Mozart who proceeded to compose several songs for her. 

o 
1801-French organist and harpsi­chordist Elizabeth Antoinette Blanchet Couperin continued to perform at the age of 81. 

o 
1893-American violinist Maud Powell performed at the Chicago World's Fair and read a paper on "Women and Music" at one of the Fair Musical Congresses. 

o 
1938 -Ella Fitzgerald, the first lady of Jazz, won the silver award and the Metropolitan Poll. She won a total of eight Grammy awards throughout her distinguished career. 

o 
1955 -Marian Anderson became the first black soloist of the Metropolitan Opera. 


o 
500 -Popular women's dance songs flourished in Europe despite church councils' outspoken disap­proval. 

0 1974-Judith Somogi became the first woman to conduct the New York City Opera. 
o 
1997-Solo artist Sarah McLachlan coordinated the first Lilith Fair concert tour. 

o 
1998 -Female solo artists domi­nate rock's top 40 as well as the "best solo artist" category at the Grammy Awards. 


Women unite in legendary tour 
, By SHANA'E TATE Village stages for both established and new artists for this News Writer year's audience. "It highlighted the majority of the best women artists, All are women musicians. An all-female concert tour. such as the Indigo Girls, Jewel and Sarah McLachlan," said As the second annual celebration of women in music, Kathleen Kennedy, a Saint Mary's student who caught the Sarah McLachlan, Bonnie Raitt, Paula Cole and the Indigo Indianapolis show. Girls lead the long list of female artists who will perform in "[The concert] was full of good music, good people and Lilith Fair 1998. good times," concurred Casey Russell. another student who "We began with a blank slate. Anything could have hap­attended the concert. pened," said Sarah McLachlan, founder of Lilith Fair in a Local acoustic acts, either all-female or fronted by March press release. "We were blessed with a wonderful women, are invited to submit a two-song tape to the local first year." promoters for an opportunity to be awarded a slot on one MeLaehlan's idea to of the Lilith side create an event that would celebrate 
in music 

Sarah Mclachlan (right) and Bonnie Raitt perform together on stage during last 
tour is the oppor­
tunity for people to 
see their favorite 

local bands perform. Lilith Fair has partnered with Levi's to announce a series of talent searches in 14 cities, including Chicago, Detroit and St. Louis. 
There is much more to the Lilith Fair than just the music. Throughout the course of last summer's tour, Lilith Fair made a donation in each city to a local charity or women's group. The tour aligns with national non-profit organiza­tions and donates one dollar from every ticket to local char­ities. Last year, over $700,000 was donated to various groups throughout Canada and the United States. 
emphasis Lilith Fair became the top-grossing festival tour of 1997 according to Pollstar, and gained the trade magazine's and award for "Tour of the Year." 
Selena's influence remains strong 
By MANUELA HERNANDEZ News Writer 
To many people on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses, the name Selena does not mean much. But if you ask any Tejano (a Texan with Mexican roots,) you are sure to get some sort of response. 
Selena is thought by many to have been the queen ofTejano music. Her music and face were well known all over Texas, yet her popu­larity did not end there. She was not only loved in Texas, but also in California, Chicago and all over the United States. Selena can be credited with propelling Tejano music to a whole new !eve by break­ing out of the boundaries of Texas. 
Tejano music is a sound all its own, and it reflects the history and influences of Mexicans who call Texas home. Tejano music is neither Mexican or American-it is Tex-Mex. The sound is a blend of polka, waltz, pop, rock, country, blues, jazz, and R&B, giving it a unique, dance beat. 
The music arose from a people who wanted something to call their own: a music that reflected the many things that made them Tejanos. 
However, this genre was lead and dominated by men. Tejano music history is filled with greats like Little Joe, Freddy Fender, Groupo Mazz, Texas Tornadoes, and Los Lobos. In this proud and short history there are very few female names. 
Selena Quintanilla was born on April 16, 1971, in Lake Jackson, Texas. At age nine, she became the lead vocalist in her family's band, named Selena Y Los Dinos. The family began to travel around Texas in a bus nicknamed Big Bertha, hoping to gain exposure and popularity. However, this proved to be difficult not only because Selena was young, but also because she was a woman. 
see SELENA I page 4 


Photo courtesy of Nettmedia 



page 4 The Observer • WOMEN'S NEWS Wednesday, April 22, 1998 
This was the beginning of After her death, the her crossover into the impact she had made on English mainstream music Tejano music and what she industry. meant to her fans became continued from page 3 During that same year she publicly evident. Thousands was recognized by the of people in the United 
Selena 
audience as did their male 

National Academy of States and Mexico mourned
counterparts, none had 

Recording Arts and her death.
been highly successful. As a 

Sciences (NARAS), when Selena had broken many
result, Selena was paid less 

she was awarded a Grammy barriers for Tejano music
for her performances. 

for "Best Mexican/American and especially for women.
Despite the obstacles, she 

Album" for her recording She became a heroine and
rose to the top, becoming 

"Selena Live." role model for girls and
one of the best in Tejano 

Just as Selena was reach­young women throughout
music. ller first big success 

ing the top level of the the world.
came in 1986, when she 

music industry, her career Today, many women are
was named Female Vocalist 

come to a tragic end. On becoming successful in the
Of The Year and Performer 

March 31, 1995, Selena was Tejano music industry as a
Of The Year at the Tejano 

shot and killed by Yolanda result of Selena's work. Her
Music Awards. 

Saldivar, her fan club presi­drive to succeed opened
From that moment on. dent and manager of Selena doors for female artists
Selena dominated the 

Etc. everywhere.
Tejano Music Awards for nearly a decade, winning Female Vocalist of the Year 



for nine consecutive years. Other awards included 
Pizza Picnic

Female Entertainer of the Year, Song of the Year, and • • 
1 '1 :50 Ql'ft Single of the Year. :• :•
. . e 
Stl 
South Quad
She became the first 

Tejano act to cross over into 

the international Spanish : RecSports is currently taking : 
lltppiaFaat

: : 
c...-oo-7d)0 Pft'l

language market. Selena won over the Mexican mar­• applications for summer • Fieldhouse Mall ket, selling over half a mil­
lion copies of her last two : lifeguards at St. Joes Beach. : .Anaarican &ralfiti 
albums. : : 8:00 ptnHer first international tri­
: • Cvshiftg Audi~rl·urn
umph came with her first 

performance in Mexico : Current Lifeguarding, First Aid, Mark Eildi• ea....ea~y s......_ before more than 100,000 
: and Professional Rescuer CPR a:oo prn
people in Monterey. In 1994. when she joined 

: Certifications are required. ~Fun ~.allr
SBK records, Selena became the first Tejano artist, male or female, to bn 

signed to a worldwide ~ Applications can be picked up , . ·. (} wresttlfl9 "~~~I)
• §Ufft. .l . . . ~lit
English recording contract. 

: at the RecSports Office in the ,_. \_ . .aser Tag ":-~?!lr 




~---~~~~~~~~~~~~:~~~~~t~~:~.~~~:~~~~~:~··~~~=~=~=0=r~=:===~=0=u===~~P=o~.p~-=a=-=S=h=~f=·=··~
ROSS ~· · the NYS De I ofEd to conduct Clinical Clerlrshl
ved b In NYSI 
App10ved By The NJ Stale Board ofMedicine to conductUNIVERSITY Clinical Clerlrships In the stale ofNew Jersey/ (Subject to 8oanl _.,voloflndMduol hosp/IJIIJ) 
IApptOxlmately 2,000 Ross Alumnl11e currently In Resldenciu or Private Prectlceln 1M U.S.A. I 
ICHOOL OP MIDIGNI SCHOOL OP VIIDINAIIY MIDICINI G...w.tn llelnucl &practicing In lhe U.S. Traditional U.S. Vll8rln1ry echool curriculum US Med Lk:tnllng Exam (USML!) plllllll for Oct e_,___,.__ulty'117 exam lpp!Oll3% for ftllt time !HI takers. Rou Veterinary"""""' '"" im11 DVM or Ph.D Cllnle~lallllllllonl with holpltals In the u.s. Cllnle~lafflllltfonl with U. 8. V11ertn1ry Schools Fully equipped still of lhe art bulc eclene~ facilities Low atudlnt·fKulty IIIIo 
M Cll ODIIIR Ollr ICIIDDI CIIIIDII On Till 11111'11111 
WEI SITE: WWW.I'OIIIIIed.edu WEB SITE: www.roavet.edu Elull: edmlalons@I'OIIIIIed.edu En\ell: edmlalons@roavet.edu 
Financial Aid Available For Those Who Qualify 
Accepting Applications For Fall ,Wintw and Spring terms. Y 
Forru;to55nuNiv~R5'1nsl~ T 
460 W 34th Street, New York, NY 10001 Phone (212) 279-5500 
EARN CASH BY 
" 

DONATING 
You could earn: 
$2ooo after your first plasma donation! 
$1 sao if you donate alone (first visit) +$ soo if you show college I.D. (first visit) 
$20oo TOTAL! 

+$1 Qoo per person if you recruit someone and they donate twice 

HELP US SAVE LIVES 
Must be 18 years old; proof of current address with photo J.D. 
Come to:  Hours:  
AMEHICAN BIOMEDICAL  Tu-F: 9:00-6:00  
515 Lincolnway West  Sat:  8:00-5:00  
South Bend, IN 46601-1117  234-6010  

r 
unication and Theatre presents 
Directed by Reginald Rain 
Wednesday, April 22-7:30p.m. Thursday, April 23 -7:30p.m. Friday, April 24-7:30p.m. Saturday, April 25 -7:30 IJ.ffl. Sunday, April 26 -2:30 p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall 
Reserved Seats -$1:1 Senior Citizens -$7 Students -$6 
Tickets are available at th~ Laforiune Student. Center Ticket Utti~t: MastnrCarrl and VISA orders call6J 1-e t:!ti 



Wednesday, April 22, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Former Ulster residents ask to vote in referendum 
BELFAST. Northern Ireland 
People who left Northern Ireland years ago arc phoning election officials to ask whetlwr they can vote in the May 22 referen­dum on the peace agreement, authorities said Tuesday. The answer is most often no. For anyorw who hasn't already registered to vote in Nortlwrn Ireland. it's too latf). Phone calls have conw in from South Africa. South America. Canada. America. Europe and "fur­tlwr afield," said Pat Bradley, the chief Plec­toral officer. "We get calls from people who ldt anywhere from a few years ago to 20-30 y()ars ago," he said. Bradlny added that younger voters have shown a higher than usual internst. Political parties will be putting all tlwir efforts into drumming up support among the 1.2 million already regis­tPrnd voU)rs. Northern Ireland residents who are working or going to school elsewhr.re in tlw United Kingdom arn eligible for absentnr ballots. ThosP in oth()r countries also may nominate proxies to east tlwir votes. 
Mary Bono sworn into late husband's seat in House 
WASIIINGTON 
Mary Bono, sworn in Tuesday as one of two new !louse mcmbr.rs. said she continues to draw strength from and br guidrd by her late husband, Sonny Bono. Mrs. Bono, a HPpublican who won a speeial election to sun~Pr.d lwr husband. said serving the pno­plc of California's 44th Congrnssional District was his proudest arhinvement. The seat had bcen vacant since Bono died Jan. 5 in a ski­ing ae(·ident at LakP Tahoe. "I understand why this chamber lwld so much meaning for my Jato husband." Mrs. Bono told the House, hl'r two young children at her side. "I will do my best to live up to the legacy that he has lcft and continur. to bring his commonsense approach to serving the pnople of this great nation." Mrs. Bono says she supports fiscal rPsponsibility. education and the environ­nwnt. 
Police search for pigeon killer 
SAN FHANCISCO 
The hunt is on to find out what or who is killing tlw pigeons of San Francisco. About 40 of tlw often-disparaged "flying rats" turned up drad Monday, starting with the early-morning discovery of the first body, near Union Square. "i\t first I thought it was shot," said street S\VPPper Jack McGann. "But then I found the othrr three. and that many dead pigeons points to poison." "One of my officers saw one pigron litPrally fall from the sky," said Capt. Vicky Guldbech of the Department of Animal CarP and Control. 
Dow 
+1.84 

]ONES 
Nasdaq: 1903.87

9184.94 
+16.73 

1) 
NYSE: 584.80 +0.79 
S&P 500: 1126.67 +3.02

+43.10 BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
COMPANY  TICJS'iB  "  CHANGE  s r.&,m  PRICE  
7TH LEVEL INC  SEVL  410.35  7.4 38  9. 250  
PC QUOTE INC  PQT  191.67  2 .R75  4. 375  
MARKET GUIDE INC  MARG  189.76  15.068  23.000  
FIRST VIRTUAL HL  PVHI  107.41  0.906  1. 750  
AUDIO BOOK CLUB  KLB  97.75  5. 43fl  11.000  

BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 
800 TRAVEL SY-\'IT 1PL'iW 22 .OR 0. 531 1 .R75 M-WAVE INC MWAV 21.05 0. 500 1.875 HUNGARIAN BRO-W'!' ABCOW 19.57 0. 562 2. 312 ART NETWORK SVCS ARIS 18.92 0. 875 3. 750 AMWAY ASIA PAC I F'IC AAP 18.61 3.187 13.937 
Composite Volume: 674,060,000 
• SOUTH AFRICA 

Town holds funeral for murdered infant 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
BENONI 
Angelina Zwane was born into near feudal condi­tions, living the six months of her life in a cinderblock shack without running water or electricity. 
She died 10 days ago of a gunshot allegedly fired by a drunken white man annoyed by children walking on his family's land. 
The black infant received a hero's burial Tuesday, with hundreds of mourners jamming a town hall to sing and pray while black and white political leaders spoke of the significance of her short life and callous death. 
Angelina's killing revived some of the bitterness of apartheid, and the squalor her family endures sparked fresh anger over the plight of most blacks four years after the nation's first all-race election ended white minority rule. ller family lives in a house on land owned by the employer of her mother. who works as a housemaid. 
The white coflin. less than three feet long, sat at the front of the Benoni Town llall. topped by yellow and white chrysanthemums. 
Outside the funeral service. a group of black youths danced and shouted, "Farmer, farmer, bullet, bullet," an anti-apartheid chant that referred to killing white farmers. 
Mourners, some wearing colors of the ruling African National Congress, cheered loudly when Winnie Madikizela-Mandela. former wife of President Nelson Mandela. entered and raised her fist in an anti­apartheid salute. 
Most mourners followed the collin to a graveyard in this town I 5 miles east of Johannesburg. When a few gunshots were fired outside the graveyard, a common occurrence at anti-apartheid funerals, a speaker admonished the crowd to behave. · 
"Angelina's family represents the majority of people in this country that have no place to livr.," said Michael Muendane of the militant Pan Africanist Congress, who spoke at the funeral. 
Madikizela-Mandela blended populist rhetoric with an acknowledgment that some whites truly wanted to reconcile with blacks after apartheid. 
"What can we say of our promises for a better life ... when we find you in the worst squalor." Madikizela­Mandela said to Angelina's family. 

She described Nieholas Steyn, the 42-year-old sus­pect in Angelina's killing. as a gun-toting racist who Ei!liiw1!2i....:;;:;;.......LJL_~__;: shouted that he didn't want any more "kaffirs" -a derogatory term for blacks-on his land. 
But Madikizela-Mandela also said white shop owners stopped her on the street this week and offered dona­tions for the Zwane family. 
AFP 

Francina Dalamini (left, in striped hospital gown) pays her last respects to her cousin Thobile Angelina Zwane. Zwane was shot and killed by Nicholas Steyn, an Afrikaner farmer in Benoni on April 11. Steyn now faces charges of both murder and attempted murder in the attack. 
• MICHIGAN 



Doctors release Chinese dissident 
Beijing. He is the second In the past. China has major dissident released in tried to use the release of recent months. Wei dis-5idents to improve the Jingsheng flew into Detroit atmosphere before high­in November and spent level political contacts, four days being treated at prompting human-rights the same hospital before groups to accuse it ofplay-moving on to New York. ing "hostage politics." 
But even as Wang was "The release is directly freed, word came from linked to President China today on the sen-Clinton's visit to· China," tencing of another dissi-said Shen Tong, president dent. The Information of the Democracy for Center of Human Rights China Fund in Newton, and Democratic Movement Mass., and a former class­in China, a Hong Kong-mate of Wang Dan at based monitoring group, Beijing University. "This is said a math teacher another form of punish­named Wang Tingjin, who ment, to put him into exile. had previously served two He's still not a free man in years for dissident activi-China and he should be." ties, was taken from his As a student, Wang led hom(i a weekago. His. fam~ marches> and gave speech~ily learnedMondaythatht) es dur!ng the protests. had beeQ sent to a labor AfteJ:".thearmy crushedthe campfor "re-education.~· a. .dempnstration. Wang's punishrnentimpost)d with, name t9pped the govern-out trial, .the.center said. meritmost-wanted.list. 
AssociATED PRESs 
DETROIT 
Chinese dissident Wang Dan thanked doctors as he was released from a hospi­tal with a clean bill of health today, two days after he was allowed to leave China. 
''I'm very glad that my first stop in America is Detroit,'' Wang said through an interpreter. "l hope I can come again." 
He then got into a van to take him to the airport for a flight to the New York City area, where he is scheduled to speak pub­licly Thursday. 
His release from Henry Ford Hospital came barely 48 hours afier Beijing released him from prison for what it said were med­ical reasons. 
Doctors said he suffers from minor asthma and weak vision, not a brain tumor as family members had feared. Wang was fit­ted for contact lenses Monday. 
''I'm free now, but I do not feel relaxed," he said earlier. "China is in my heart. I hope I can go back to my country soon.H 
Wang, a leader of the 1989 Tiananmen Square protests who spent nearly 6 1/2 years in Chinese pris­ons, had complained of chronic headaches and a throat infection. 
His family had speculat· ed that the 29-year-old had a brain tumor; but doctors said the headaches likely were caused by bad vision. . · 
Wang was freed ju,st two months before )'resident Clinton's scheduled ttip to< 


page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 22, 1998 
added. semester in Jerusalem as an Johnson has found donors to Besides seeing the sights of undergraduate student at Notre help undnrreprnsentnd students
D.C. Hatch 
continued from page 1 
tlw chance to meet with House Speaker Newt Gingrich although Henshaw said that "tlwrn arc no guarantees." Meeting with (;ingrich is a possibility because a 1994 Saint Mary's graduate is in charge of scheduling for the Speaker. 
The purpose of the trip is mainly for sightseoing. Henshaw said that lw has left froe time for the students. 
"The trip doesn't involve any tnsts or crndits, just a lot of fun," Henshaw said. 
Henshaw, who is familiar with the city, will conduct the walk­ing tours. 
"WI) might take a walking tour in tlw morning and thnn give the students free time in the al'ter­noon to give them a chance to shop, do mon) sightseeing or evnn follow up on what I showed people on the walking tour," Hnnshaw addnd. 
Senior Hossitsa Stoyanova took part in the trip two years ago. 
"My motivation for going on tlw trip is that I thought it would he fun to g1)t ofT campus for fall hnHtk, sincl) I don't get to go honw lwcause I am from Bulgaria," Stoyanova said. "I also thought. lwcausn it was an organiwd trip, it would be a r.hanee to learn a lot." 
Stoyanova add('(( that slH~ was irn pressed by the structure of tlw trip. 
"lie had something organiwd l'or us 1wnryday," slw said. 
For Stoyanova, tlw high point of the trip was visiting tlw White llousn. 
"Wiwn we went to see tlw inside of the White I louse, that was vnry exciting for mn," shn 

251-0674 
IIA TUBA 

JAPANESE REST AU RANT 
•Authtmtic•Healthy•Delicious 
Robert is the BEST Chef in Town! 

2930 E. McKinley Ave• South Bend, IN 
Washington D.C., becoming friends with the other people who went on the trip was a highlight for Stoyanova. 
"I didn't know anyone going on the trip because they were all seniors and I was a sophomore, but when we came back from the trip we were all friends," she said. "It was fun to see new places and meet new people." 
Students interested in the trip can attend a meeting on Monday, April 27 at 6:15 p.m. in room 247 of Madeleva IIall at Saint Mary's. 
The cost of the trip is $538. It includes accommodations and travel by air to Washington. The trip will be limited to HJ stu­
dents,  who  will  depart  on  
October  17  and  return  on  
October 23.  

continued from page 1 
second year of a program to appoint diversity representatives in each of the colleges, according to Hatch. These representatives are paid a stipend and act as a stimulus in the college to support aflirmative action for women and minorities. 
Hatch's third goal is to resur­rect a serious Latino/Hispanic studies offering. The University was once well known for such a program and Hatch feels that one should be reimplemented. 
Chandra Johnson. assistant director of' special activities for Campus Ministry, also raised the question of segregation in the University's study abroad pro­grams. Johnson, who spent a 

Feflini  Sofia /,oren  Marcello Mastroianni  Joe Pesd  
Robert de Niro  Pasolini  Bruce Springsteen  Madonna  
Pavorotti  FranI.: Sittatra  Lisa JJ!!it~elli  Puccini  

Ifyou like film and music, you are already Italian at heart. Why not learn to speak the language? 
Summer Classes in Italian 9 credits in 6 112 weeks! 
ROIT 102 July 8-July 21 
ROIT 103 July 22 -August 5 
Fulfills Arts and Letters Language requirement!! 

For more information, contact Mrs. Mangione at 631-7485 or Summer Session, 631-7282. 
EVER THOUGHT ABOUT BECOMING A ... 

Counselor( 
PSYCHOLOGY FAMILY THERAPY COUNSELING PSYCHIATRY SOCIAL WORK MINISTRY 
COME TONIGHT TO EXPLORE THE POSSIBILITIES! 
Careers in the Counseling Professions 
WED. APR 22/6:30 P.M./ 300 UCC (STUDENT HEALTH CENTER) 
... SENIORS ... SENIOgS... SENIORS ... SENIORS ... 

GOING TO A NEW CITY? 
Ca~ee~ & placemeV\t se~vices caV\ heIp }:'Ol-1 fiV\d othe~ N.D. 9 ~ads goiV\9 to the same city. 


Dame, is concerned that minority students do not have the finan­cial resources to study abroad. 
"I think that the international studies program is one of the most segregated programs at the University because it is ear­marked for an elitist group," she said. 
study abroad, but has run into problems with the financial aid office. Hatch promised to look into the situation. 
Kristine Boeke spoke about today's memorial service for English prof()ssor Erskine Peters, who passed away March 9. 


Introducing ... 

''CASTLE POINT SELECT'' 
Designedfor the Ultimate Comfort at Surprisingly Low Monthly Rate --just Compare! 
* UNFURNISHED or FURNISHED Spectacular Furnishings Available! 
• 
27" Stereo Television 


• 
Cherry Finished Furnishings 

• 
Microwave, Toaster, Coffee Maker 

• 
All Dishes, Cookware, Linens & New Bedding 


• Plus Much More! 


MILLION DOLLAR RENOVATION 
* LARGE One Bedrooms (737 sq ft) Starting at $494.00 
• 

* LARGE Two Bedrooms (I ,025 sq ft) Starting at $595.00 OR $149.00 per Person with Four Occupants 
Included with rentals for a LIMITED time --FREE full privilege membership to the Castle Point Health and Racquet Club including: 
* New Fitness Center * Ourdoor Pool * Beach Volleyball 
*Sauna & Whirlpool * 3 Racquetball Courts * Indoor/Outdoor 
* Indoor/Outdoor Lighted Tennis Courts Basketball 
Hurry in for a Tour ofthe Mot5t Porular Apartment£5 While They Lat5t. 
CastCt:PointApartments C~eCaoo @ Jronwooo:Roaas 272,.8110 

..Where J\o~et( (iving is :Reetsonet6(e" 


MAKE YOUR DESTINATION .. UNION STATION! 
233-2876 
WEDDING RECEPTIONS GRADUATION PARTIES REHEARSAL DINNERS t::.' BANQUET DINNERS DANCES (; CLASS REUNIONS 

Irish Guard Try-Outs 
Informational Meeting 
Thursday, April 23 
7:00 @ Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune 
If you can't be there, or have questions, contact: Brian Hardy 243-5638 or Ben Wright/Kip Moen 4-4995 



:..SENIORS ... SENIORS ... SENIORS ... SENIORS ••." 

Wednesday, April 22, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Daly compares medical history to social history 
By TOM ENRIGHT school series. He read excerpts from the News Writer Beginning with the earliest almost 4000-year-old Code of medical records, Daly showed Hammurabi, which set penal­
Addressing the past, present how medicine and civilization ties for doctors who misdiag­and future of medicine, Dr. closely parallel one another. nosed patients. Walter Daly spoke as the main "The history of medicine is a Daly used this as an example lecturer in the final installment tour of the intellect through of the early stratification of of Notre Dame's mini-medical time," said Daly. society in which harsher penal-
Office of Information Technologies 
Arkie, COBA, are all closed r NOW??!! 

(SHHH, IF YOU PROMISE NOT TO TELL ANY­ONE I'LL LET YOU IN ON A SECRET.) 

There are Windows computers available all night and all weekend in G015 CCMB. 


Open 6 pm -7 am on weekdays, and 24 hours on the weekend. Enter CCMB via the south doors and head downstairs. (Just don't tell anyone else.) 

Office of Information Technologies 


Demonstration of the Digital Library  Monday, May 4, 1998  
Project at the University of Illinois,  3:30-5 p.m.  
Grainger Engineering Library  Am. 136 DeBartolo  
Recap and further discussion of  Tuesday, May 5, 1998  
the UIUC Digital Library Project,  9:00 a.m.-noon  
including lessons learned from  Am. 122 COBA  
research and user perspectives  
Speakers:  
Bill Mischo-Engineering Librarian  
Tim Cole-System Librarian  

Grainger Engineering Library Information Center University of Illinois at Urbana-Campaign 
Sponsors: University Committee on Libraries College of Engineering University Libraries of Notre Dame 

ties protected the wealthy from back into Renaissance society. mistreatment. Specifically, Daly mentioned 
The doctor also discussed the Peter of Spain, a 13th century contributions of Hippocrates, physician and priest. Peter was Pythagoras and other Greek eventually elected Pope John scholars to early western medi­XXI, the only physician pope in cine. history. His medical writings, 
"In general, the Greeks built typical of the period, relied a system ... that served as the heavily on astrology and taught foundations for health care," that the body was subject to noted Daly. various omens and signs. 
During the middle ages, many Daly predicted that, "The ancient medical works fell into next century will provide new the hands of Arabs, who later opportunities through immu­reintroduced many procedures nizations and new cell biology." 
*The Most Affordable Student Housing * 

One &Two Bedroom Apts Available for the '98,'99 School Year Summer Rentals June,August. (Check our summer storage specials) 


Great Summer Job Opportunity in Chicago 
Seeking energetic student for summer internship/service project. Individual would be actively involved in all aspects of a start-up not for profit agency founded by fellow Domers. Job offers ability to sharpen communication, planning and implementation skills while teaching the individual about the basics of operational and financial management. Position is an excellent resume builder and networking opportunity. Housing in the heart of trendy Lincoln Park will be provided. A can't miss opportunity for someone who wants a different summer expe­rience. Interested parties should call Brendan Gilboy: 312-938-5358 ASAP. 
• Be i~t1volved with coo~di~t1atio!t\ of the u~ba!t\ PILA!t\9e 
• .All pa~ticipa!t1ts a~e i~t1vited to apply 
Applications currently available in the Center for Social Concerns 
Monda~April27, 1998 is the deadline 















VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Wednesday, April 22, 1998 

• 000NESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 
'When I think over what I have said, I envy dumb people.' 
-Seneca 


THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFfiCE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Rcinthaler Kyle Carlin 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Heather MacKenzie 

NEWS E!llTOR .. ...Matthew Loughran ADVERTISING MANAGER .........................Kris Klein VIEWPOINT EDITOR ....... Eduardo Llull AD DESIGN MANAGER ........................ Brett Hudat SroRTS E!llTOR ...................... Karhleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER ..................... Michael Brouillet SCENE EDITORS... ............. Sarah Dylag WEB ADMINISTRATOR .................. jennifer Breslow 
Kristi Klirsch CONTROl.l.ER .....•••..•••••.•.......•......•..... Davc: Rogcro SAINT MARY's EDITOR ............. Shannon Ryan PHOTO EDITOR .......................Kevin Dalum 
The Ohsc:rver is che independent new..p~per publi!iohed by ~he student!. of r.h~ Un~versity ?fN~ue .Dar.ne d_u_ Lac and. s~um Mary's ( :ollcge. It docs not necessarily reflect the policies of the admm1srrauon ~f enher mnuut~o~. I he m.ws IS reponed .u o~.ccuroudy and obiectivdy as po~iblc. U~signc~ editorials reprcscnl th~ opmion of the m.aJOrll)' of~he r-:.Jiwr-in-Chief, M.moaging Editor. As.sinam Managmg &fnor and department ednors .. Com~cntancs: lenc.rs and columm prncnr the views of the authors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. V1~pomr spac~ tli av~1l~ble to all membcn of the Notre DamelSaint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varymg opmtons 
through letters is encouraged. 
Comaqing The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office Managing Ediror/Assisram ME 631-4541 Advertising News/Photo 631-5323 Systems Sports 631-4543 Fax . . Scene//Sainr Mary's 631-4540 Vrewpoant E-Marl Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Ad E-Marl Office Manager/General Information 631-7471 News E-Mail 
• So, WHAT's Mv PoiNT? 
Thanks to Readers 
We'rn almost there. Just a little bit Saint Mary's Office of Multicultural Affairs. longer, and we'll be able to breathe a sigh At the beginning of the year, I was invited of rnlief. to orientation, which is where we were 
Only three more weeks until we bust this introduced to Maria. At the time, she told joint. us where her office was and that we were It is the season of papers, tests, finals. It free to drop in on her anytime. She was as is the season when we ================ good as her word. 
have more work than All year her door usual. but also the only has been open to
Nakasha 
season when we can anyone who had a enjoy the outdoors (this problem. a question, being the semi-frozen or even just wanted 
statP of Indiana, which to talk. Over the year,

Ahmad 
unlik11 its northern broth­ers. provides the snow but not the terrain to ski. sled and/or snow board down). It is the season of internship interviews, job searches, graduation. 
It is alrnady April. 
Maybe this is an overused, leftover theme -one as familiar as the sight of the Golden Dome -but time flies. And not just wh11n you're having fun. It flies, and it flies fast. 
Tako this year, for example. To use a trite and highly overused expression, it seems just like yesterday -1 began this year, nervous -about school, about my grades and dnlinitely about this new venture, my column. And after another swiftly passing ynar, everything has turned out fine. Even my column. And I'd like to thank my friends who read the column and let me know they liked it, either by telling me or through e-mail. I'd also like to thank the people I never even met, both here and at Notm Dame, who e-mailed me to tell me thny liked what I wrote -it was nice to know I had readers. And, of course, I'd also lik11 to thank those unknown souls who wrote to The Observer to complain about my column and how awful it was. In one r.asn I agreed with you -in most of the other cases, 1laughed and carefully snipped out the letter to save. {Again, a tes­tament to the fact that I do have readers!) 
One more thing I would like to do at the end of this year is to say goodbye to a per­son who will be leaving Saint Mary's. Although she has only been here a year, the amount she has accomplished is phe­nomenal. She is the interim director of the she planned several 
gatherings for multi­
cultural students. At 
the beginning of the year, she right away compiled a list of stu­dents' majors and began sending them notices about career opportunities, gradu­ate and law school programs, and intern­ship information. She also helped to bring several speakers to talk about the multicul­tural experience, and helped organize the first-ever "Discovering the Possibilities" workshop, which invited students from area colleges, as well as representatives of local community groups and graduate schools. She also published a monthly newsletter and started to work on gather­ing together a Multicultural Programming Committee. Moreover, when the time came to hire an assistant to the Office, she approached students to interview candi­dates and actively partake in the selection process. 
In short, she has helped in raising cultur­al awareness at this campus, and in mak­ing sure that the Office of Multicultural Affairs played an active role in student life. We hope that this involvement continues into next year and the years to come, after she is gone. And we wish her the best of luck in whatever she decides to do next. 
Nakasha Ahmad is a sophomore English major from Saint Mary's. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author, and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
6.~1-5313 
631-6900/8840 631-8839 631-6927 
Viewpoint. I @lnd.edu observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu observer.obsnews.l @nd.cdu 

• lETIER TO THE EDITOR 
In Defense of 'The Babe' 

It was quito a good feature on Friday by Dan Chicalski about some legends and rumors in Notre Dame's history. I particu­larly liked the item about Knute Rockne's friendship with Babe Ruth. But labelibg Ruth as an "infamous" baseball legend in the description next to his pic­ture? I beg to differ! 
Babe Ruth is arguably (and it would have to be a very strong opposing argument) the greatest baseball player who ever lived. In the wake of the 1919 
'Black Sox' gambling said that he once 
scandal, which shook baseball to its core, Ruth single-hand­
edly saved the sport, belting homer after homer for the New York Yankees and bringing widespread popularity to the national pastime. The backbone of the Yankees'''Murderers Row' lin{:! during the '20s and early '30a fhe ,··~ultan of Swat" c' .-•. _·••. #~trtost of his 714 round­trippers, including 60 in 1927­tw() ~thlf:lvements that were Jeaguereeords for decades­andin ~e process brought the 
,,,YankeMwhat seemed like annu­
"> a.l champiom>hips. He was also well-known for his fun-loving spirit1caDd a genuine love of chil­dren~ Ruth admittedly was 
Ji~< 
uncomfortable around adults. He once was asked by a very ill, hos­pital-bound young boy to hit a homer in that day's game -and The Babe delivered. 
I could fill these pages with stories about Thn Babe, as well as mind-boggling statistics. So, f ask you -why would The Bambino b11 considered ''infa­mous," as you put it'? Thoro sim­ply is no reason for such a description. But let's explore some possibilities. Hn was, to put 
it kindly, a portly man. It is 
dtwoured 12 hot dogs before a game. And he smokfld, 
which prob­ably caused 
his lung cancnr. from which he never 
recovered. But those are just about tho 
worst things you / ean say about The Babe. He was a groat 
player, a great man, and considering some of today's ath­letes, was a saJnt in comparison. So please, I ask you, the next time there is a space in The Observer under Babe Ruth's pic­ture, find some word other than "infamous" to describe the man. 
Matthew Quinn Freshman, Stanford Hall April 20. 1998 



VIEWPOINT

Wednesday, April 22, 1998 page 9 
• GuEST CoLUMN 
Truth For A Lie 
I would like to answer publicly sically disordered,'' "contrary to a private e-mail I received from natural law," "under no circum­the head of the PSA. Although it stances can [it] be approved" is difficult to (CCC determine #2357). whether dis­A good crimination friend of
Gabriel
has occurred, mine wrote he argues, we in these need sexual pages a few orientation in weeks ago 
Martinez the non-dis­claiming crimination ----=======:..._ ___ that he was 
clause, and "we have to rely upon the courts ... to determine the truth." 
As a manner of answer, let me suggest O.J. Simpson's case. To be honest, I have never had an opinion on whether O.J. was innocent or guilty. I wonder what you believe. For many blacks, the second verdict was (and probably still is) an out­rage, a clear example of the oppressive, Euro-centric culture we live in. For many whites, the first verdict showed clearly that a white woman and a white man cannot get justice against a blaek man in this politically-c;,or­rect society. My point is that both raees had already deeided what this specious sort of truth was way before the trial started. Activists on both sides explained their well-thought out positions, really a mask for their preju­diees. You see, non-discrimina­tion elauses are (in some situa­tions) neeessary, but I wonder what the outcomes would have been if O.J. had been judged by an all-white jury first, and then an all-blaek jury. 
The head of the PSI\ asks, "Why is it so hard for non­activists to believe that diserimi­nation is very present on the Notre Dame campus?" My answer is that I have seen harassment in the bathroom stalls, and in people's eonversa­tions. People who talk like that are bound to diseriminate. However, I have not seen the administration perpetrating such blatant aets of gay bashing. Therefore, I will keep my mouth shut and give everybody (artivists and administrators) the benelit of the doubt until I am proven wrong. 
You may say: "Of eourse they diseriminate! GLND/SMC has not been recognized, and never will be!" Well. the Church draws a clear distinetion between the homosexual orientation and homosexual acts. The orienta­tion is an inclination to sin. In my understanding, homosexuali­ty (the condition) is much like aleoholism. It is not bad in itself and you arc just fine until you aet on it. However, it is nothing to be proud of, much less cele­brate. 
It is something that (some­
times) ean and should be eured. 
Nevertheless, those around the 
person with the homosexual ori­
entation have the moral duty to 
make the load lighter and help 
carry their cross. Sin begets sin: 
gay bashing is a sin against 
eharity, the most important of 
virtues. No unjust diserimination 
is tolerable, no unfair exclusion, 
no cruel joke. Love your neigh­
bor. 
On the homosexual aet, on the 
other hand, the Bible has these 
words: "degradation," "unnatur­
al," "shameful," "improper," 
"abomination," "opposed to 
sound teaching," and "will not 
inherit the kingdom of God" 
(Rom 1 :24-28; Lev 18:22; 1 Tim 
1:10; 1 Cor 6:10, NAB). The 
Catechism of the Catholic 
Church says of the homosexual 
act: "a grave depravity," "intrin­
one of a minority of Christians who does not believe that the homosexual act is sinful. I have not been able to find a single reference in the Word of God (the only clue we have as to how He thinks) that the homosexual act is anything but always wrong. Aaron, you are much too intelligent to claim that you cannot read. Either that, or you are plainly disre­garding the Laws of your Creator. Do not put ideology (or idealism) in the place of true religion. 
So, what is the problem? Why doesn't GLND/SMC (like its eoun­terpart _at Catholic University) come out with a statement say­ing that they will never promote or condone the homosexual act, and will dedicate itself only to supporting and caring for the persons? Because a good num­ber of its members have their hearts set on (as the PSA would have it) getting that depravity recognized as OK, as having equal standing with the mar­riage that God established between a man and a woman as holy and sacred. Not Alcoholics Anonymous: they would want "Proud to be Drunk." 
So you see, the University (she has said) would be more that ecstatic to incorporate sexual orientation to the non-diserimi­nation clause. It is the right of those with the condition to be accepted as human beings, hav­ing equal standing with every other woman and man that God created, and to be helped to solve their problems. But the University does not operate on a vacuum, and she is in the middle of a culture that eonvicts and acquits without evidence. Moreover, the University has to deal with courts who would love to interpret "sexual orientation" in the broadest of senses. 
As a Catholie university, the 
University of Notre Dame eannot 
allow herself to give even implic­
it endorsement to a view that 
clearly confliets with the Truth 
as has been revealed to us by 
God. The Basilica is not Keenan­
Stanford Chapel, and from its 
pulpit one stands much higher 
than sitting on an Endowed 
Chair in Theology. 
Whether we (or they) want it 
or not, the University of Notre 
Dame has been given by God the 
right and the duty to help us 
take care of our souls, by the 
mere fact of being run by bap­
tized Christians. She will have to 
carry out that duty with or with­
out the help of the Faculty 
Senate or Student Government. 
If the University ever recognized 
a group whose objective is to 
exehange the Truth of God for a 
lie, her administrators would 
have to answer before a Higher 
Court. And believe me, Aaron, 
He does not judge without look­
ing at the evidenee. 
Gabriel Xavier Martinez is a 
graduate student in economics. 
The views expressed in this 
column are those ofthe author, 
and not necessarily those of The 
Observer. 
• AWAKENINGS ABROAD 


A Remarkable Process 
LONDON been detrimental to his political viability on 

Remarkable moments in history the issue. inevitably seem to be the result of the Ahern followed suit, working closer with courage of a few leaders ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ the British government who take decisive action than any of his prede­
in the name of what is ~ cessors and even
J right, rather than what agreeing to rescind the may be best for their • • Republic's constitution-personal future. Sueh a! claim to the North. men and women risk Ahern also worked tire-
c 

their honor and often lessly to the last minute
0 0 ney

their lives to aehieve (in the midst of his 
what is best for society. Perhaps I'm being pre­mature, but I think the bravery displayed by the essential figures involved in the Good Friday peace accord for Northern Ireland may be such people -they may have turned the tide of history in a new, more hopeful direction. 
The first display of such courage came some five years ago, when the leader of the pro-nationalist Social Democratic and Labour Party, John Hume, began discus­sions with Gerry Adams, the leader of Sinn Fein. By recognizing the political legitimacy of Sinn Fein, the SDLP's primary political and electoral challenger, Hume risked his own position as leader of the SDLP and risked the already slim political leverage he had as the primary non-violent spokesper­son for Irish nationalism. 
Hume's decision was the first in a series of critical events for Sinn Fein and the peace process. Eventually they would be mother's death, inci­
dentally), risking the possibility that his political future might be tied to a potentially sinking peace process. 
Similarly, Mitchell risked the entire peace process by setting the Good Friday deadline for a deal. He set himself and the talks up for the ultimate failure-a return to war. Had no deal been cut, Mitchell would have returned to the U.S. as a scapegoat and perhaps left the talks beyond repair. But like Blair, Mitchell 'felt the hand of histo­ry,' and demonstrated apt timing and cal­culation. 
Finally, perhaps the most courageous leadership was demonstrated by the Ulster Unionist Party leader David Trimble. Against the will of the rest of the UUP lead­ership, Trimble went to the bargaining table and ultimately agreed to the deal. He held to his guns on a few key issues, but ultimately compromised, realizing the need for peaee and the fact that the loyalists 


reeognized by the White House and Downing Street as politically, rather than violently relevant-Sinn Fein was no longer just a mask for the IRA, but a legiti­mate member to the talks. Adams recipro­eated Hume's move by defying ultra­nationalists and declaring that the most effective way of achieving the goal of a united Ireland was through diplomatic and political means, rather than through vio­lence. Adams backed up his rhetoric by negotiating a cease-fire, agreeing to the Good Friday deal, and standing by it at the annual Sinn Fein conference last week. 
Hume's and Adams' leadership, in turn, set in motion the events which would lead to the risks taken by former British Prime Minister John Major, current Prime Minister Tony Blair, Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern, and the peace talks chairman George Mitchell. Major risked his position as prime minister and Conservative leader when he invited the parties to peace talks and declared unequivocally that self-deter­mination would be paramount: no deal would be acceptable without the consent of the parties involved, Parliament, and most importantly, the people of Northern Ireland. 
Blair took a similar politieal risk by con­tinuing along Major's path. Rather than do the politically easy thing of differing from the position of an ousted Prime Minister from a rival party, Blair affirmed the prin­ciple of self-determination and involved himself closely in the peace process. He flew to Stormont in the waning days to seal the deal, setting himself up for a political disaster. By declaring that he "felt the hand of history upon him" and ensuring a deal, producing anything less would have amount to just over half the population of Northern Ireland -he acted in the best interests of humanity, rather than simply him and his party. 
It was Trimble who perhaps took the greatest risk of all. Had his party rejected the deal, he would have been thrust from leadership and his strong loyalist record dating back several decades would be for­ever-marred. But Trimble was vindicated last weekend, as 72 percent of his party embraced the deal in a referendum and a poll showed nearly three-fourths support for the deal amongst all Northern Irish. 
On May 22 the people of Northern Ireland and Ireland will ultimately deeide whether or not to adopt the Good Friday deal ­early polls show that they will. This all the more demonstrates the leadership and bravery of the political players. They swept decades of distrust and feuding under the table for at least at shot at peace. All the pundits predicted a rushed, unpopular deal -but they were proved wrong. Though polls did not show it before the deal was signed, what the people really wanted was bravery and leadership -and they got it. This will be proven by an overwhelming vote for peace on May 22, and these men may be thanked by history for setting the wheels in motion. 
J.P. Cooney is a junior government and economics major currently enrolled in the London Program. He can still be reached via e-mail at Cooney.6@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author. and not necessarily those of The Observer. 





8cene 
page 10 ---------------------~OBSERVER ---------------Wednesday. April 22, 1998 
Those not so lazy 
• SCENE ASKS 
What are you doing this summer? 

"Doing the least work to get paid the rnaximum amount." 
Ryan Mariotti Sophonwre, Zahm 

"Working at the board of trade in Chicago. " 
Shelby Chick Ofi~Campus, Junior 

"An archaeology internship in California. " 
Sara Brandon Breen Phillips, Senior 
"Working at Earl's Meat Packing Factory in Chicago. " 
JP Kelly Qtr-campus, Senior 



"Golfing arul helping my parents move to France, in effect, avoiding reality. " 

Peter Moriarty Oft:Campus, Senior 
Time to search for the ideal summer job 
By SARAH DYLAG Scene Editor 

Remember elementary school. when summertime meant a string of barefoot. sunny days followed by long, cool ice-cream eating nights? 
Bob Dylan summed it up pretty well when he said, "In the summertime, ah. in tlw summnrtime..." With no school, no homework and virtually no rosponsibilities, summer meant frnmlom and it somnml endless. 
Its just too bad those days couldn't last forever. 
Now, as the aeadomic year comes to an end, instead of anticipating long, lazy summer days, many col­lege students arc looking at their bank accounts with dismay and desperatnly filling out job applications in search of the ideal summer job -something not too demanding, but serious mwugh to fill pocknts (and bank accounts) with sparo change. 
For college students, summer still symbolizes an end to studying and aeadt~mic work. but it no long,~r means completely earefree days. And while it may seem distraeting during this time of final papnrs and exams to contemplato ways to spend at least 560 hours of summer freedom, the time has como to start making the big decision before all the good jobs are gone. 
Where will you work this summer? 

Stumped for ideas? Head on for some suggestions. 

No running on the pool deck! 
Those whose summer goals include working on the perfeet tan might try lifeguarding. What could bo better, after all, than sitting under the sun for 40 hours a week, watching people splash around in thn water and getting paid for it? And since most pools onforeo a policy mquiring a 10-15 minute break every hour, lifeguarding even provides a chance for swimming and relaxing. 
It seems like a pretty easy way to make some fast cash at a rate wrll over the minimum wag1~ in most cases. A summer of Baywatch excitement. 
"You get to be outside in the sun all day long and the hours are good bncause the pool is not open in the morning," said Notre Dame junior Lezlie Potter, who has lifeguarded for thr·eo years. "Plus, your friends can come visit because it's not against the rules. And when thoro's bad weather, the pool doses." 
Lifeguarding does require First Aid, CPR and Lifeguard training and certification, and although twirling a whistle and yelling at kids to stop running around may sound lik1~ fun, many guards eitc brm~­dom as one of their biggest complaints about the job. Furthermore, although sitting in the sun may look like an easy job, some guards often find it's not so easy to keep an eye on everyone in tho water, espt~­cially if guarding on the shore. 
It's not always as exciting as Baywatch, either. Many times, the biggest problems during the day are finding a band-aid for someone's scraped knee, watching out for thundnrdouds or cleaning the pool's bathroom. · 
"You have to deal with screaming kids and annoying kids and parents who don't watch their kids and let them run around," explained Potter. "It gets hot and boring and you havn to clean, vacuum and wash toilets." 

Today's soup is clam chowder ... 
If spending the majority of the summer outside dealing with little kids doesn't seem like the best option. consider working as a waitress/waiter. It's a job which requires fairly refined "people-skills" and the abili­ty to smile at all times, but many students believe it's 
worth it when they count up their tips at the end of the night. 
"You make a lot of money waitressing," explained Meg Schlosser, a Notre Dame junior who spent last summer waiting tables at Red Lobster. "Even though the salary is low, you make a lot of tips." 
Freshman Jennifer McLaren agreed. "The salary is bad, but the tips are good," she explained. "The money is really the only good thing about the job." 
Many restaurants require some amount of training and menu-studying before one can begin waiting tables, however, and waiters and waitresses must learn to deal with rude customers and long hours. 
"The hours arc really bad," said Schlosser. "You work during mealtimes so you can never go out yourself and the hours arc always unpredictable, depending on when the restaurant is busy." 
"You're on your feet all day and it's exhausting," added McLaren. "At the end of the night you have a lot of money, but your feet hurt and your back hurts and 

you're just exhausted." 


< 

THE OBSERVER 



--•he campus community knows well the politics of the debate sur­rounding the status of gays and lesbians at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's: from reading articles and letters in: The Observer to attending rallies and dis­cussions or, in many cases, from living entangled in it. Often forgotten are the faces behind the issues, the students and faculty embroiled in the long-standing struggle to be true to themselves at a Catholic university that 
S p e c t a 
at 



Part I 

many feel frowns upon homosexual activity. 
This can translate into a painful paradox for Notre Dame's gay and lesbian faculty members, who see a need to be strong role models for their students, but some of whom fear that being openly homosexual could hurt their jobs. 
Here, in the first of a three-part series, The Observer hopes to illuminate the homosexu­al experience at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's through the stories of those who live it, for beyond Church doctrine, University policy and campus activism lie people trying every day to assert their rights in the face of real and theoretical obstacles. 
Section 
PRIDE AT NOTRE DAME 

David Garrick 

The Observer 2 Special Section '/"'
• -._. J 
~~-~-­
~~-­

faculty profile 


bout 50 years ago, a young Notre Dame student sat in a darkened 
room watching a movie about courage and determination. 
The young man made a connection -not with the soldier 
Lawrence of Arabia, but with the man, because he "endured by 
strong will" to free the Arabs from Turkish oppression in the 
1920s. Something about that hero was unmistakably familiar, and so he watched the film at least a dozen times more. He felt a comfort in Lawrence's world that eluded him in the classrooms or dorm rooms of Notre Dame, where he could not find a role model who gave him the support 
and understanding that Lawrence's two-dimen­sional, six-inch figure on the screen could provide. 
After studying the man's life, he discovered the basis for this profound connection: Both he and Lawrence were gay. 
He discovered it in the way they adopted the same strategies to cope with the feeling of "just being different." He shied away from human con­tact like Lawrence did, because "you're sometimes mad at your body for being homosexual, and you don't want others to touch it because you and they despise it." 
But from Lawrence he learned a lesson that no one at Notre Dame would teach him. 
"I felt that if you could do a great thing like Lawrence did, there must be something good in­side of you," he said. 
And so David Garrick set out to discover the good inside him, in spite of the feeling he got from the community that he was different, harmful and unwelcome. 
Outside the confines of the campus, he realized his devotion to God and became a priest. He served those with AIDS, he preached the Gospel and he grew in his love of the theater. 
And then he returned to Notre Dame to serve as a minister of Christ, a teacher and the rector of Keenan Hall, the very building where he first met his only role model. 
He hoped to become a role model himself, but after living his undergraduate career behind the veil of closeted homosexuality, he knew the pain his coming out would cause and chose to remain silent. 
"It is so dangerous [to come out at Notre Dame]. You have to handle contempt. They de­spise you. They're disgusted by you," he said. "So I didn't want to come out because, who wants to be disgusting? I thought, well, once I get tenure, I can find out where these gay students are, and I can help them." 
Tenure never came, and nothing quite impelled Garrick to test his courage and make the truth known to his colleagues, friends and students at the University. 
Nothing, until April9, 1996. 
That day, in a letter to The Observer, Garrick came out to the Notre Dame community, a move he calls his "experiment with the truth. 
"Spiritually, I felt at peace about it I could not teach people in the Church about gay people if I didn't come out myself. I had to back it up. I could not lead a double life," Garrick said, recalling the spark that set off emotions he had considered for a lifetime. 
"I knew I had to come out when Father Malloy announced that GLND/SMC would be moved out of the Counseling Center [in 1993]," Garrick said. "I was convinced it was the wrong move to make. I knew I was going to have to just come out" 
In the letter, he described a personal theology that included a discussion of the reality of sexual orientation-his argument for the idea that a celi­bate individual who had never been sexually active could in fact intimately know of his homosexuality. 
"My coming out has borne some good fruit. Stu­dents have come to me about being Catholic and some with some serious issues about being a young, gay Catholic," he said. 
That is precisely the reason he came out: So that students not unlike himself could have a trusted person with whom to discuss their problems and share the struggle of being gay at a very conserv­ative place. 

''Without good role models, young people fall into despair, " he said. 'The consequences of de­spair are: going insane, becoming a problem drinker, getting into compulsive sex and killing themselves." 
He continued, "People say, 'I'd rather die.' I want them to know that other futures are available to them. 
"My hope was that if my experiment with the truth worked that more experienced, happy, Catholic adults would come out to help the young people outside of this slightly eccentric theater priest who puts on plays and wears his hair too long," Garrick said. 
But that hope has since faded, which Garrick at­tributes to his perception that "adults are punished for coming out here." 
Garrick says he has dealt with the punishment first-hand. He claims to have never received any official response from anyone about his theology or his decision to come out publicly, but to him, the consequences of his actions have been vivid and painful. 
Before April1996, Garrick was invited to say Mass in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Meeting with him on Sunday nights was nearly impossible because he was busy preaching at dorm services, and he offered Reconciliation to members of the congregation. 
Now, Garrick says, that is all a distant and fond memory. 
"I haven't had any priestly ministry on this cam­pus as of Apri11996. The last two years, no men's dorms have asked me to say Mass, and only two women's dorms have-that's devastating for a priest," he said. 
In his sorrow, Garrick tried to see the members of the Notre Dame community positively, wonder­ing if"it's a coincidence. 
"Maybe my preaching went bad at that time," Garrick said. "I do think it's rather extraordinary though that my entire priestly ministry on this campus is gone." 
Reaching to shift a Bible that rested on a sitting room table, almost as if reaching for answers to his questions about people's reactions to his coming out, Garrick continued to explain how the disclo­sure of his homosexuality has impacted his per­sonallife. 
"I went into a twilight zone of 'What is Father Garrick doing?' from a number of people in my community. You know you will be taken off all kinds of lists -lists of friends, socializing lists, 
•!• Turn to PAGE 12 
The Observer 3 Special Section 

_j_'_ ----------­
------._­

PRIDE AT NOTRE DAME 

Bill Storey 
The Observer 4 Special Section 

faculty p r oj-i L e 


ill Storey has seen Notre Dame evolve. As a member of the South Bend community and as part of the 
Notre Dame family, he saw the addition of women to the Universi­ty, the graduation of countless of his theology students, and even sent a few of his own children through the ranks at the school. 
Storey saw the school "come very far" on many controversial is­sues in its role as the voice of the Catholic Church in American academia during the past decades. It took a stand on birth control, divorce and even homosexuality in a time 
when so many were looking for religious leader­ship. 
Over the years, the Church's, and thus the Uni­versity's, strong opinions and teachings weakened on many issues, Storey said. 
''You can't just throw these divorced people out of the Church because they're hurting. The Church realized that, and now they have open meetings and advertise them in church bulletins. 
"likewise with birth control-how many facul­ty members do you see with seven, eight, nine children? But you'd never hear a sermon denounc­ing birth control in the Sacred Heart church," he said. 
Even back in the '70s, when Storey was a mar­ried father of seven, he took all the Church's opin­ions in stride. A theologian, he understands the value of a well-established argument, and eventual­ly accepted the more liberal judgments by the Church on pertinent issues. 
But the Church's stance on homosexuality has been rigid in the last decades; in that time, Storey's life took a series of dramatic turns that brought him closer to the issue than he ever imagined in his 21 years teaching undergraduate theology. 
''I'm a late bloomer. It has taken me most of my life to come to terms with my sexual self, to accept my homosexuality and to work toward a full gay identity," he wrote in an essay for a book about gay and lesbian Catholics. 
In fact, his life seemed fairly average until he fi­nally opened himself to the truth of his homosexu­ality. 
"I was born 200 years ago," he said. "It took me a long time to figure out I was gay-27 years of marriage and seven kids, in fact." 
In his essay, he said, "Family, church, society have all conspired against me to keep me in the heterosexual camp." He spent years at Catholic in­stitutions of education, moving on to the seminary and later marrying a young woman and starting a family. 
The whole time, he had a secret "My entire life, even when I was young, I would go to confession and confess that I was sexually at­
tracted to men. They would say, 'You're either sick or you're going to hell or you're possessed by the devil,"' he recalled. 
Surrounded by those opinions of homosexuali­ty, Storey turned to the priesthood, living for years under the Rule of St. Francis and the Constitutions of the Cauchin Order. There, he and many of his fellow friars felt "nervous, distraught, ill-at-ease, uncomfortable with one another and, very often, physically ill, [dealing with] insomnia, indigestion and depression" and resided under a veil of si­lence, he said. 
Storey left that life, choosing marriage as anoth­er avenue to pursue happiness, but which also al­lowed him to evade his homosexual orientation. He had seven children. He was a great dad, but he knew that deep down that he desired something else. 
''When you have a sexual disposition that runs counter to your choices in life, it's not fair, espe­cially to the woman," he said. "I wasn't even re­motely thinking of that when I was married. In the end, honesty really pays off." 
At Notre Dame he had met Philip Schatz, a sophomore theology student in the '70s. The two met again years later and now, after a period of self­discovery for both men, they share a home and a life together as a conservative, happy gay couple. 
Schatz agrees with Storey's emphasis on hon­esty. "It [homosexuality] is a truth that you really shouldn't deny," he said. 
But the younger man tried some denial of his own before finding the happiness of a 20-year rela­tionship with Storey. 
''When I graduated [from Notre Dame], I en­tered the CSC community. I was to be my contri­bution to humanity and my escape [from homo­sexual feelings]. The first time I had to deal with it was when my undergraduate roommate came back a year after graduation to tell me that he was gay," Schatz said. 
The two men met again after the death of Storey's eldest daughter and together realized their orientations. 
They fell in love. 
The time between then and their moving in to­gether was rocky. Together they told all of Bill's seven children and dealt with his divorce. 
"It's a pretty hard thing to have your dad tell you he's gay," said Schatz, who watched Storey open the emotional floodgates each time he told a family member the truth. 
They have since accepted that truth, and Storey and Schatz live the life of a married couple, despite their knowledge of the "common misconception" of their life together. 
''We're supposed to be the enemies of marriage. The problem with most gay men is that they can't find someone to live the rest of their lives with," Storey said. 'They've been condemned for their lives, and internalize the condemnations of others and feel that they don't deserve a happy life with someone they care about." 
Notre Dame remained a part of the couple's life; Schatz worked on post-graduate studies, and Storey continued to teach. But in the early '80s, University students kicked up a controversy by de­manding rights for homosexuals. 
Storey saw confusion and fear. 
'There was a paranoia of the times. I wanted to go to a meeting of a pre-GLND/SMC group. I wrote letters to students, but they didn't write back. They probably thought I 'was a spy or an in­formant for the administration," he said. "No one gave their last names to anyone. There was just this fear." 
Whether the fear was actual or a product of a so­cietal stigma on gays and lesbians, Storey felt he had to take a stand in support of his chosen lifestyle, one that so many students were fighting to live. 
He retired in 1985 simply because he felt it was time to do so, but continued as a graduate student advisor for the University, which gave him an in­side perspective of the discrimination that students continued to describe. 
In support of a number of undergraduates being interviewed about the situation on campus, he came out of the closet in a South Bend Tribune ar­ticle on March 20, 1986. 
"Students need the faculty to lead, and if they [students] don't have any role models or people to go to, there's no telling what they11 do. The faculty has a very special obligation to be out in the first place," Storey said. "In coming out, I knew I had to be out. I came out because students were being harassed." 
Storey felt it was his turn to lead, but soon after the disclosure of his orientation in the newspaper, he found that his duties were suddenly restricted without explanation or discussion. 
"As a result of [that] article, ... Storey said, the University almost did not appoint him to teach in 
•:• Turn to PAGE 12 
The Observer 5 Special Section 

PRIDE AT NOTRE DAME 

Carlos Jerez-Farran 
The Observer 6 Special Section 

~r=--~w--------------~--~-~------~~----~~~--------------------~--~~--------~--------~----------------~~--~--------------~ 

faculty profile 


Love moves the world That lies at rest, Lost to sight. And this Tenderness not bound to service. 
A long-awaited word Illumines atmospheres; A new love revives Declining senses. 
-.. 


hese telling words come from the pen of Luis Cernuda, a Spanish poet who saw political upheaval and personal struggle during the first quarter of this century. His literature is still used in classrooms across the world to convey aspects of the human spirit that he captures so vividly in verse. 
His lines are often recited in DeBartolo or O'Shaughnessy Halls, but by professors analyzing the diction, rhyme and rhythm of Cernuda's work. 
Many Spanish majors know so much about his works, but don't ever understand the depth from which his words spring. 
"He was the most explicit gay author of [his] generation," according to professor Carlos Jerez-Far­ran, a fact he says is too infrequently mentioned in the classroom, yet too important to omit. 
Jerez-Farran says the homosexual undertones of Cer­nuda's poems are obvious to those who are open to that in­terpretation -including those like himself, who under­stand the poems without delineation because of similar personal experiences. 
He understands Cernuda because they are both gay. 
Jerez-Farran teaches the author's work on purpose be­cause he wants" [to showIgays and lesbians that they have a tradition throughout history that has been silenced." 
He also puts Cernuda on his syllabi because he wants to teach heterosexual students to open their minds and hearts to the emotions homosexual authors bring to the page. 
"Class is very important because we talk explicitly about authors being homosexual and about how they are well­balanced people. Many think you have to silence that part ·of the text because homosexuality is not transcendental­that it has no validity," said Jerez-Farran, who feels his ex­ploration of homosexual literature in the classroom actual­ly shows students the depth of feeling apparent in all liter­ature. 
But not every student is willing to accept that interpre­tation. 
'There are problems with identification with the subject [of homosexuality I, especially with straight students," Jerez-Farran said. "It is very strong in the human mind that if you're interested in the subject, you're one of them." 
That is biggest prejudice Jerez-Farran tries to dissolve. 
"Teaching homosexuality in literature can enrich a text by adding new meanings to already existing ones. It offers the opportunity of exposing social and political lies at the same time as it explores issues of authenticity and sinceri­ty," he said. "It can demonstrate that a heterosexual reader can respond as avidly to homosexual literature as homo­sexuals can respond to heterosexual literature. People have been doing it for centuries, only that they did not know it." 
The Observer 7 Special Section 

Jerez-Farran feels that exposing all students to homo­sexual literature is part of his duty as an educator. By teaching courses like "OutSpoken readings: Questions of homosexuality in literature," he believes he can broaden the education students receive at Notre Dame, a place he feels is not entirely open to homosexual interpretation of most facets of life. 
In fact, when Jerez-Farran arrived at Notre Dame in 1986, he felt the need to teach homosexual literature, but did not feel safe enough to publicly state his own sexual orientation, of which he has been aware since his early teens. 
'"'7·

"I joined the ND faculty the same year a former faculty member in theology [Bill Storey] was declared persona non grata by the University. It was not a welcoming envi­ronment. I think this university does not know, or rather, does not want to know how to deal with the issue of homo­sexuality," he said. 
For fear of being fired -"everything you read in The Observer about how the administration treats homosexu­als would make you feel apprehension"-Jerez-Farran waited until he earned tenure in 1992 to come out to the ­Notre Dame community. 
"People stay in the closet because of the environment that people are afraid of being know for who they are. That is very pervasive on this campus," he said. 
In support of that claim, Jerez-Farran pointed to several situations: the lack of student aid, the administration's "blind reliance" on Catholic doctrine, and recent lecturers who called for a "conversion" from homosexuality, some­thing Jerez-Farran cannot accept. 
"What the majority would like to do with gays and les­bians ideally is to give them the necessary tools to sup­press their sexuality, at best, or to turn them into hetero­sexuals at worst," he said. 
•!• Turn to PAGE 12 

PRIDE AT NOTRE DAME
-

John Blandford 
The Observer 8 Special Section 

faculty profile 


ost students have their own road that leads to Notre Dame, one they travel after every vacation and along which they excitedly await the first glimpse of the Golden Dome. 
John Blandford, a 1983 alumnus, also had a favorite route -State Road 2 from Chicago -but it had a 
drastically different effect on him. "Honestly, I can't take that shorter, cheaper route anymore because I get nauseous 
as I pull onto campus. There was a sense of dread whenever I came that way as an undergrad, so now I come in like a tourist, on 80/90," he said. 
Now a doctoral candidate and former teaching assistant, Blandford opts to pay the extra $2 to cross the Chicago Skyway from Illinois to Indiana when he returns to campus, largely because the old route brings back painful memories of the dis­crimination he felt as a gay undergraduate afraid to come out of the closet. 
"I found myself driving through South Bend the other day, screaming at this woman who had made a left turn without signaling. And then I re­alized this was not what I was thinking about," Blandford said. "It's like describing part of a rape victim's rage that comes out as you're reliving these events. It's something that's in you forever." 
He recalled such things as derogatory graffiti, but said the overwhelming moments came from hearing anti-gay doctrine preached from adminis­trators and clergy. 
"It's the messages you're getting from the ad­ministration that make you feel discriminated against. The message is that you're supposed to live lives that aren't integral. It's a really rough life to live. The hardest part was hearing all the time, 'You're not part of the family. You don't belong at a Catholic institution,"' he said. 
During his undergraduate years at Notre Dame, Blandford secretly struggled to reach a place where both his homosexuality and his Catholicism could reside peacefully. He felt the University did not foster that attitude. 
"Ifyou have any sort of stake in Notre Dame or the Catholic Church, you're setting yourself up for a big disappointment. I'm one of the casualties. People here are pretty irrelevant concerning moral issues. They just say it's a Catholic thing and dismiss it," he said. 
He could not dismiss it, but he could not face it. As a graduate of a Catholic high school and a member of a traditional, Catholic family, Bland­ford knew the doctrine. He knew that ''by coming out, you've de facto separated yourself from the Church," so he hid his homosexuality during most of his undergraduate years. 
After graduating with a theology degree, he traveled the country and found places like Austin, Texas, where being gay was neither odd nor un­welcomed. 
'They [homosexuals] live and work in a com­munity where they are already accepted," Bland­ford said. 
He stayed there to complete a master's degree in economics at the University of Texas; he also met the man with whom he now shares his life, a Catholic school teacher. The two have spent years living openly as a couple in a world where homo­sexuals are legally protected from discrimination. 
And then he returned to Notre Dame -"1 was crazy enough to come back" -to work on a doc­toral degree in economics and serve as a teaching assistant. It was during his tenure as president of GLND/SMC that the administration refused to provide legal protection against discrimination for any member of the Notre Dame community on the basis of sexual orientation. 
He dealt with all types of members of the Notre Dame family, now as an openly gay man, and came to realize that most people are accepting. 
The Observer 9 Special Section 
"My experience with the discrimination is that the students were generally ready to embrace [homosexuals] as part of the Notre Dame family and that the faculty is very supportive," Blandford said. 
"My department was supportive, my peers were great, and it really wasn't an issue with my students, but when it came up, they were support­ive too," he added. 
His experiences with both students and staff helped fade his painful memories of being an un­dergraduate at Notre Dame, but he said he still heard loud and clear negative messages from the administration. 
He has his own ideas why the administration will not add sexual orientation to the lists of rights protected by the University. · 
'The University has found its alumni fundrais­ing niche as conservative Catholics and will come across as ogres in reality [by not protecting rights]. They're trying to pretend to be compas­sionate to gays and lesbians and being authenti­cally compassionate to the conservatives. 
'They are willing to destroy life after life after life," he stated. 
Blandford now lives on the north side of Chica­go with his partner, returning to campus only once every two weeks-on the expressway. For his dissertation, which covers wage and income effects of sexual discrimination in the workplace, he draws on both his experiences as a homosexu­al and on Notre Dame's policies. 
"Notre Dame is a place where I couldn't get work done. I've made tremendous strides on my dissertation since I've moved to Chicago. I will be quite proud when I get it done, but I'm not sure 111 be proud of where I got it from," he said. 
So he was a gay student, a gay faculty member ·'­and now a gay doctoral candidate, and since he has chosen to be all these things at Notre Dame, he feels "betrayed." 
'There is a punishment for coming out here," he says. 
Blandford feels it is his duty to tell others "the truth" about the University so as to protect them from the pain he endured. 
"I advise my nieces and nephews not to choose Notre Dame. It's not a healthy place," he said. "I say that ifthere's any hint of difference you feel in high school, I'd definitely dissuade you from going to Notre Dame." 


PRIDE AT NOTRE DAME 

Anonymous faculty member 
The Observer 10 Special Section 

~--SU­
faculty profile 

often feel that ifI claimed my lesbianism, I would be fired." She says this as she sits in her office, framed by the view of cam­pus from her window, the Golden Dome looming above her. 
' 
Outside in the hall, students often wait for hours to catch a moment of her time, and yet this faculty member, who has more than a decade dedicated to Notre Dame, cannot be named here because she needs her job to support her family -and because she loves the woman with whom she 
shares her life. She does not think the administration would understand. 'There's no real concrete evidence that I would be fired. It might be an unfounded 
paranoia, but I'm not sure it is, seeing how the ad­ministration has treated students in the past," she said. 
She is referring to the University's refusal last year to recognize GLND/SMC as an official stu­dent group, and previous decisions denying the group the right to meet on campus. 
These decisions, she feels, speak volumes about the state of discrimination against homo­sexuals on campus. Although many avenues are available for gays and lesbians at Notre Dame, she claims the overwhelming feeling is that they are not welcome. 
'There is such a sense of a hierarchal structure at Notre Dame since it is a private university. It breeds a sense of fear," she said. 'The University seems to be so worried about liability. They run from liability rather than stand behind their facul­ty members. For us employees, there is no legal protection. That is a strong deterrent from com­ing out." 
And so, with no legal job protection, this woman must mask a very real and meaningful part of her life. She cannot speak frankly of her family, for fear that an administrator might over­hear her mention a quiet evening at home with her female life partner. 
She is not sure where that could lead. 
''You can never predict what the repercussions will be. There might be none or it might cost you your job. You don't want to pull the trigger not knowing if there's a bullet in the chamber," she said. 
Instead of playing this game of Russian Roulette, she simply gets in her car at the end of the day and goes home to the love of her life; home to her chil­dren from a previous heterosexual marriage; home to openly and honestly express her feelings and live comfortably with her lesbianism. 
"My lifestyle is no different than most middle-aged working women. I go home, I cook dinner, I spend time with my kids. I just happen to be in love with a woman," she said. 
And "being in love" is the phrase that best de­fines her relationship. As she leans back in her chair, she fidgets with a thin gold ring on the third finger of her left hand -pulling it on and off, ad­miring it, smiling at it. 
Her commitment ring is more than a piece of jewelry. It represents the life that she and her part­ner plan to share together, for richer or poorer, in sickness and in health, until death do them part. 
"It doesn't seem to be about the sexuality so much, but about the person you care for. The sex itself is a very small part of the whole relation­ship," she said. "It's not so much the issue of sex, but how you can connect with someone in a rela­tionship. 
"But for the rest of the world, it's all about sex." 
The rest of the world includes Notre Dame, where she spends the majority of her days work­ing in the academic community. She feels at home in her department, where people under­stand the real meaning of her relationship and happily take the phone messages from her part­ner about who will pick the kids up from school or what will be cooked for dinner. 
Otherwise, for her, "it doesn't feel safe at Notre Dame. 
'The people who have seen it, like the people in my department, they've been wonderful, but I think the fear is always there that you're going to get a bad reaction-that people will treat you like a leper," she said. 'They think that even being ex­posed to it [homosexuality] is a danger, like a dis­ease. It's like you can't move freely-like some­how just my contact with people would infect them. It is always there in the world, but it's worse here on campus." 
Worse, to the point that she and her partner do 
The Observer 11 Special Section 
not attend University events designated for spouse attendance because, as a same-sex cou­ple, they do not feel accepted as part of the Notre Dame family. 
"I wouldn't take her to the President's dinner," she confirmed. "It's a real source of conflict and a source of pain. There's always a presumption around here that you have to have a date. 
"It's really too bad that [a heterosexual associ­ate] can bring a date but I can't bring [my part­ner]. I'd have better conversation with her than with any random male date," she added, noting that people often have a "knee-jerk reaction" to seeing two women as a couple, a situation she would rather not deal with in the professional forum. 
In the four years she has lived with her partner, she has seen and experienced many situations at Notre Dame, from watching the reactions of col­leagues who discover her homosexuality to hid­ing in the proverbial closet to avoid confrontation. 
She often talks with students dealing with con­fusion about sexual orientation, but even while trying to provide guidance and support, she runs into those who simply do not understand her life choices. 
"Ifyou have any influence or any kind of a rela­tionship with a student, you become a role model. But because I'm a lesbian, some people think that if I talk to a student I will molest her or recruit her," she said. "How do you recruit someone for homosexuality? It doesn't work that way. When you try to help a student, there is a major sense of paranoia that the help you worked to give that stu­dent was dangerous-like you're part of a group of outlaws." 
So despite her role as a respected faculty mem­ber at one of the most prominent Catholic univer­sities in the country, this woman feels she cannot provide guidance for students struggling with sexuality unless she meets them in secret. 
She, who feels that love is the most important piece of the relationship puzzle, must avoid telling the truth in public for fear of the accusations that might be made against her. 
But some situations cannot be avoided. She could not evade telling her children about her ho­mosexuality, nor keep it from her partner's fami­ly. Though difficult, these times ultimately strengthened the lover's bond that not even the discrimination that she feels she encounters at Notre Dame can break. 
'The crap is all worth it. The relationship is so satisfying and so good that you can deal with the bad staff on a daily basis. It has really solidified us as a couple," she said. "It's like being in a relation­ship when parents are opposed, but they can't touch the strength of love that the individuals feel for each other." 

PRIDE AT NOTRE DAME 
David Garrick, from page 3 

Father Garrick embraces one of his friends and supporters after speaking at a rally on March 24, six days after he announced his resignation. 
Editor's Note: This author wrote this piece 
two months prior to Father David Gar­
rick's resignation/rom the University in 
late March. This additional information 
was not added so that the story would 
focus on the personality ofthe man, not on 
the recent controversy surrounding his 
situation. 

networking lists -but you lose control over that." he said, explaining that some refused to consider his theology and just could not understand how a priest could be "sexually anything." 
Not only were his relationships affect­ed, but he felt the repercussions of an al­teration of the mind frame in which he had grown up. 
"I was used to being respected. It's very hard for an educated, white male to accept that he is part of a persecuted mi­nority because educated, white males rule the world," he said. 
He draws comfort from the fact that students-straight students more than anyone -stood behind him and even feared the repercussions of his decision to come out. 
"Heterosexual students have been the most supportive on this issue be­cause young people understand what it's like to be powerless, and they don't like to see that happen to their friends," he said, noting that straight students often support their peers where they feel the administration has failed. 
'The day before I came out, I told my freshmen [that I was going to come out]. I wanted to them to hear it from me," he recalled. 
"[They] asked if I would be fired on the spot -if our class would be stopped. I said I didn't really think that would happen, but that I had no protec­tion. They [the administration] can say all they want, but there ain't no protec­tion," Garrick said. 
That lack of protection concerned Garrick, but after carefully considering the disclosure of his homosexuality, the administration's stance on the issue con­cerned him more. 
"It's against the Catholic character to discriminate against these students, and my problem with the administration is that they don't recognize that you can be openly gay and be a good Catholic," he said. 
Garrick still speaks about the wrong of the situation, but focuses on the dis­crimination of students, leaving his own troubles to be dealt with elsewhere. 
"What the gay students at Notre Dame need is a chance to represent themselves. Marginalized people need the right to organize because if they can't organize they can't get justice," Garrick said. "There's only one way to be a group -to have the freedom to make decisions, to have the freedom to make mistakes and to be held account­able for their mistakes." 
Garrick holds himself accountable for his homosexuality, but it is hardly a "mistake" to him. Despite the difficult times he has seen and all the friends who slammed the door the very second he stepped from the closet, he refuses to forget the reason he wanted the world to know he was gay in the first place. 
"I have to help the students. My job as a priest is to say that God loves you and God is respectful of you even though other people might not love you," he said. 
And he refuses to forget the only role model whose life and testament to the truth gave him the incentive and will­power to find the "something good in­side" of himself. 

Bill Storey, from page 5 
the 1986-87 school year," The Observer reported on Sept. 19, 1986. 
He was limited to teaching 12 gradu­ate students, a limit Storey called "an in­fringement on my rights as a professor. And I reject it because it's dictated by prejudice against gay people and against me in particular." 
The only response from the adminis­tration came from Michael Loux, then dean of the College of Arts and Letters. 
"We have a strong tradition here of not making public comments about appoint­ments," Loux told Storey. 
Storey's students got wind of the pos­sibility of his not returning and com­plained to the department, allowing for what Storey dubbed an "under the table negotiation" that allowed him to teach during 1986-87. 
From then on, he only associated him­self with the University as a part of his professional past. 
"It made me even happier that I had retired. It made me sad that they [admin­istrators] were willing to compromise the careers of several graduate students because they didn't like it that I was gay," he said. 
"My football tickets disappeared. My box in the theology department disap­peared too, but when I said anything, they said, 'Oh, it must be some kind of mistake,"' he recalled. ''What they want­ed was for me to disappear." 

And disappear he did, from Notre Dame at least. He concentrates now on his family, including four grandchildren, his relationship with Schatz and the busi­ness they run together, Erasmus Books, a local store for used books. 
The two feel that Notre Dame could do much more in the way of student, fac­ulty and alumni education to teach their "family" members about the difficulties and joys of homosexuality. 
"It is a very divisive issue for a lot of people. The University is reluctant to make an issue of something that only a small part of the Notre Dame family ac­tually recognizes -that being the large number of alumni who graduated before 1970 and for whom this issue was not dis­cussed during their growing up," Storey said. 
"But this University is losing its chance to educate those alumni," he said. "Every one of these alumni has at least one person in their life who is strug­gling with this issue. An awful lot of us are affected by this, and those who are hurting are just waiting for the rest of us to be enlightened." 
Schatz and Storey feel that Notre Dame could take an active role in that en­lightenment, but personal experiences make the couple think that day is far from coming. 
They still live in the neighborhood only a few blocks from campus in their home/bookstore. They hear news from campus when it is big enough to break out of the small community's barriers. 
Each day, they see more students and faculty garner the strength and courage to support the rights of homosexuals at Notre Dame. 
They continue to watch it evolve. 

so I left for England when I was 18." the implications of the doctrine, so he in­



Carlos Jerez-Farran, from page 7 
Jerez-Farran did not have much stead turns his interest to literature, 
Church influence in his life despite being where he finds his own feelings and ex­
reared in a Catholic country, and feels periences are prevalent. 
that, particularly at the University, "poli­He tries to show others, straight and 
Jerez-Farran remains at Notre Dame Putting up with the bad is something tics intersect with religion, keeping the gay, the meaning of love, devotion, pain because he feels it is his place to open that Jerez-Farran has done all his life. distortions and stereotypes and stigma and truth that he finds inherent in the the minds of students, faculty members Born in fascist Spain, he has seen his alive. writings of homosexual artists. Jerez­and administrators to the feelings and share of Church indoctrination and gov­"Especially with my father, his experi­Farran hopes this helps them under­struggles of homosexuals. Despite the ernment control, some of which he ence with the way the Church imposed stand the situations that homosexuals negatives, the University has its merits, likens to the situation at Notre Dame. itself in society and used the excesses of like himself encounter every day. he said. "To be a gay teenager in a totalitarian its power with its involvement in politics "It can help you see subtleties and 
''Why stay? A lot of it had to do with the country like the one I lived in, and the made him not push us into the Church, hear silences that a heterosexual who is prestige of the institution. The salary was fascist Catholicism that the alliance of fortunately," he said. 'The Church does­lucky not to have gone through those ex­attractive at that time. The job has profes­Franco and the Church imposed in n't want to see the human side of [homo­periences might not see or hear when sional advantages difficult to match by Spain, you had no other choice if you sexuality], and so it turns it into some­reading gay authors," Jerez-Farran said. other universities, and what is equally im­wanted to be yourself than to be quiet or thing lustful and promiscuous." "Sexuality after all is tempered by an in­portant is that students are motivated and to leave," he recalled. "Repression and For Jerez-Farran, the Church's posi­dividual just as certainly as an individual intellectually capable," he said. myself have never been good together, tion means very little. He understands is tempered by his or her sexuality." 
The Observer 12 Special Section 





8cene 

Wednesday, April 22, 1998 ---------------~OBSERVER ---------------------page 11 
ays of su.tntner ••• 
Do you want fries with that? 
If nnither lifnguarding or waiting tables seems like a productive way to spend the summer. the fast-food industry also provides a fast way to make a buck. Although it may seem liko a more of a joke than a job, working in a fast-food restaurant cer­tainly poses no challenge for any capable college student who can clearly ask, "Do you want frios with that?" and free food for employees sometimes makes up for the low. minimum-wage pay that characterizes most fast food jobs. 
"We get all the free soda we wanted," said freshman Jen Farrell, who works in a fast-food restaurant during the summer. "You can also eat the leftovers." Working in a fast-food restaurant also helps employees learn to survive a fast­paced environment. 
"You loarn to work at a fast pace in a high stress environment with a variety of pnople," said Notre Dame junior Heather Paich, who spent one summer working at McDonald's. 
But a fast-food employen must also be prepared to deal with some not-so-ideal working conditions. Working in a fast-food job does not simply consist of working tlw cash register and the jokes about fast-food grease aren't funny to the people working behind tlw counter. 
"It's disgusting." said Farrell. "Your hands are always dirty and it's gross because your hands are always in grease." "It's roally grPasy and it's delinitnly not a professional atmosphere," added Paich. 


Could you please hold? 
l'orhaps tlw only place to truly experience a professional atmosphere is in a rnal ofl'iee setting, as an intern or doing secretarial work. Not only do these jobs look good on resumes, they also provide predictable hours and good pay. 
"The pay was two times as good at my internship than at the pool," said Potter. 
Notre Dame junior Carin Pankros, who has worked for a financial planning (:ompany for three summers, agrned. "The pay is much better in an office. Plus, you havo set hours and most of your nights and weekends are free." 
Despite the predictable hours and good pay, working in an office does have certain drawbacks. Getting a day off, for instance, can sometimes pose a chal­lnnge and working in an office means sitting inside all day. 
"It's never really summer in an office," said Potter. 
"It's dnfinitnly more fun at other jobs," said Pankros. "In the office, I don't rnally work with people my age. But I like doing something that has a tangible result. I like creating something or putting something together." 

• RHYME.&REASQN 


HOwto,get the job you want 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Scene Writer 

For those ol,ltthere who have yet to find that summer job of your dreams, 
don't lose hope; it may still be out there. You just need to know how to find it. 
The most important thing to know is what kind of summer job or internship 
you are looking for. Key con~iderations are the type ofwork sought, preferred 
hours and dates, whether or not working in your future career field is essential, 
location, and the amotmtofmoney xou need to make. Once these decisions are 
made, the search can begin; Starting early gives one a better chance to pick and 
choose, but positions can always he found in some type of work. 
A majqr reso:urce on campus is theoffice of Career and Placement Services, 
which.•at this time of year, maintains listings of job vacancies, recognized 
internships and summer jobs. They also recommend various websites to search 
for emplpyment. Earlier intl}eschoql year, interView sign·ups are available for 
the dates various companies will be coming to campus. The office can also be an 
assetforthoseiookingfor adyice about the whole job-s!(Cking process. 
SeniorMiekeWalshfo'irnd an internship last summer by seeking the help 
from those in her concentration, the Hesburgh Program in Public Service. She 
workedin public affairs at the American Meat Institute in Washington, DC. 
''I wenttnth~ head rifmy department, and that's an awesome way to look 
because they have a lot of connections." said Walsh. "I learned so much more 
than 1 ey~r (lxpt'lcted to." •• { I ,, "'''' . •·. ,.,, . 
Whether yoti are hoping to land aprestigious job at IBM or just want to work 
in fast food, nearly all employers are seeking individuals with integrity, enthusi· 
asm, motivatio:o and . .hpnesty, and who present themselves neatly. 
"You have to be ab!B to run with the ball and solve your own problems, but 
still be a team player," said Mike Witous, financial consultant at Merrill Lynch 
and NotreDamegraduate; '''"'"'''·::··· tt 
Darlene Lane, ownsr of two local Dairy Queen restaurants, said that it can be 
difficult to find qualified workers. . .. ··. ·. . . t 
' "At niy store; llookfor people who are eager tO' worli.'hear the minimum 
wage, so that's difficult to lind," said Lane. "I askwho the President of the 
United States is, and I get all kinds of ans\\'ers-Martin Luther King, Thomas 
Jefferson; If tax is five cents on the dollar and the total is five dollars, they (job 
applicants) can't do the division most of the time." 
Getting through the interview processiswhat spares many applicants the 
most. 

"There arethree parts to preparing for an interview," said Kitty Arnold, 
Director of Career and Placement Services~ "Prepare to talk about yourself and 
your strongest selling points for that kind of job. Know things about that kind of 
job, and know aboutJhe organization itself,'' .···•• .•.. .· 
''When itoonu~s to doing job interviews, the onlyway to learn is by baptism· by 
f'rre," said Witous. "Rather than having one of your first two interviews be with 
the company you really want, do some interviewing somewhere else first 
becauseyou'l'e goltlg to mess up."· 
Ifyou.go fin~ajohin the field you are interested in, it can become a real asset 
when you l:Jegij;llookfng for permanent employment. :!';•;.,, "' 
"That's really what a lot ofcompanies are using summer positions for-as a 
chance to train people earlier,., said Robin Sullivan, Summer Internship 
Coordinator in the Office of Career and Placement Services. "A lot of companies 
use summer internships as an avenue for permanent positions." 


Hmmm ... 
If you still haven't found the perfect place to punch the timeclock, don't worry. There's still time left to find the ideal job. And if these options all seem boring, there are still countless other ways to make some fast cash. Try baby-sitting, working construction, landscaping or brewing coffee at the local coffee house. The list goes on and on and with a little creativity and ambition, the perfect summer job might not be out of reach. 
Just remember, running around barefoot without a care in the world may sound more appealing, but a summer job doesn't have to cause the sum­mertime blues. 


Montreal, Pittsburgh could get defensive in playoffs 
The Observer accepts classifleds everv business day from 8 a.rn. to .3 p.rn. at the Notre Dame oHice, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at .~09 Haggar College Center. Deadline fur next·d.ty clas­
silleds is 3p.m. All classifleds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day. including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for comem without issuing refunds. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 

000 THE COPY SHOP 000 
LaFortune Student Center 
WE'RE OPEN EARLY. LATE, 
AND WEEKENDS!!! Mon · Thur 7:30am · Midnight Fri 7:30am -7:00pm Sat Noon-6:00pm Sun Noon -Midntght 
CALL 631-COPY 

ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST WOMEN'S GOLD AND SIL­VER SEIKO WATCH SINCE TUES­DAY APRIL 14th IF FOUND PLEASE CALL DINO @4633 YOU'LL BE HAPPY!! 

WANTED 

CRUISE SHIP & LAND-TOUR JOBS · Excellent benefits. World Travel. Ask us how! 517-324-3090 ext. C55841 
Anyone interning in Chicago looking 4 a roommate? Call Mike X3584 
Volunteer in Africa or Mexico. One year placements in various sectors: human rights, community develop· men!, youth, journalism, microenter­prise. health, refugee relief, more. Internships in our Washington DC office. Visions in Action. (202)625-7 403. Visions@ igc.org Web:www.igc.org/visions 
Sales/Marketing Internships University Directories is hiring stu­dents to sell yellow page advertis­ing for the official campus tele· phone directory this sumrner. Paid internship. Training program. Excellent sales/marketing & man­agement experience. Call 1-800·743·5556 Ext. 143 or visit www. universitydirectories.com 
Rec Sports is hiring student supervisors for next academic year. Freshmen and sophomores pre­ferred. Must qualify for work/study. Sports interest and/or background helpful. Apply by April 23. Rec Sports office. 
MODELS NEEDED' Female and Male Models for an upcoming A VEDA production. Model calls are being held now. Have fun and get a great new look. Please call 1-800· 356·5533 ext 1209 for information. 
Want to live in Turtle Creek 
Fall Semester? We want to live there in the spring. Let's share a lease. 
x2985 

I am looking for an apartment that I can sublet from somone for most of this summer, you don't want to loose two months rent, so if you have one that you are interested in letting me stay in, please call me. 4-2141 
I'm looking for a place to stay this summer. I need to be able to move in right after senior week. x-4732 
Student seeking tall '98 only hous· ing. Close to campus. Single or shared. 284-4450 

FOR RENT 
Now Renting Campus View 1 & 2 Bedrooms 2 Blocks from campus 272-1441 
Summer and or Fall 3 bdr home. 2 blks from campus 273-1566 
COLLEGE PARK APT.-spotless­cheap rent for summer· call 243­9309 Need Summer Housing? Rooms available in a house 314 of a mile from campus Live with other students Reasonable rates Call4·1190 for INFO 
ALL SIZE HOMES CLOSE TO CAMPUS 232-2595 
1,2,3&4 BDRM HOMES NEAR CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272-6551 
FREE SUMMER STORAGE '98· '99. 4-6BED. 2·CAR GAR. WID. V· 
BALL CT. VERY SAFE. 234-38311273·0482 
4BR house close to ND. grad students only unfurnished. 233·1727 1,300 
ROOMS AVAILABLE GRADUA­TION & FOOTBALL WEEKENDS. LESS THAN 2 MILES FROM CAM· PUS. CONT. BRKFST INCL. CALL 277·8340 
Bed & Breakfast for ND graduation & Football. 3 miles from ND. 287­4545 
HOUSE LEASE 4BR 2BA PT FURN W/D/ D/W WALK-ND AVAIL 611 GRAD PREF (773)288-8822 
5 bedroom house for rent for 98-99, 1 05 Marquette 232-6964 
Room for rent in 5 bdrm house. Kitch. Washer. Dryer. Safe Nghbrhd, close to campus. All Util. incl. $200. avail. now. Paul Roy-232-2794 
NICE 3-4 BEDROOM HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND 2773097 COLLEGE PARK APT AVAIL FOR SUMMER BEST OFFER 4-1314 

3 BDRM HOME. SAFE AREA. NEAR ND & UP MALL. AVAIL 81/20-5/20. $1000 PER MO. & UTIL. CALL 407-673-1779. 
Furn. Am Wash/Dry Private Bath Kitchen $350/Eiec Karen 284·6257, 273·4517(eve) 
SUMMER SCHOOL STUDENTS: College Park Apt. for lease this summer. Fully furnished. Reasonably priced. To inquire, call 243-7720. 

FOR SALE 
Beautiful brass bed, queen size, with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame. New, never used, still plastic. $225 219-862-2082 
'COMPUTER: Mac laptop wl modem &printer included $1,200 OBO 'BIKE: Huffy mountain b. $100 OBO 'NINTENDO for SALE! 271-7677 Maria 
84 Nissan Sentra 4dr. $1200. Greg 288-3408 

1575 OAKHILL 2 BDRM 2 BATH CONDO VAULTED GREAT ROOM WI FRPL FOR SALE. TO SEE CALL JONI/REMAX 235-3145. OPEN HOUSE SUNDAY 4/261-3 PM 
SPACIOUS CONDO walk to campus Diane Killilea 272·5444 


TICKETS 
GRADUATION TIX NEEDED CALL LAURIE @ 243·4788 


PERSONAL 
ADOPTION: Hugs, daisies and babbling brooks in summer. Snuggles, skisuits and a toasty fire­place in winter. Love and joy for your baby all year long. Happy, car­ing professional couple would love to provide a newborn with love. joy and security. Call Ed and Ellen at 1· 800-484-7011 Pin #4523 
LOOKING FOR A JOB FOR THE '98-'99 ACADEMIC YEAR? THE COPY SHOP in Lafortune is now accepting applications for next fall. Student positions are limited so apply early. 
ADOPTION IS LOVE Happily married ND Alumni couple, with adopted 3 year old daughter. wants to shower a new baby with love. Artistic full· time mom, athletic lawyer dad, and a sister to play with. Friends on the swingset. trips to the zoo, grandma, play groups, lullabies, too. This is a home where wishes come true. We'd like to get to know you. Call Shawn & Meg 800-767-4257. Legal/Medical/Allowable exp. paid. 
WHY DIDN'T SOMEBODY TELL ME WAL TEA CRONKITE WAS IN BENTON HARBOR?!?!? 
October 1998: Subway Series, baby. 
Hsu is lab teching tonight. I don't know what that means. 
Ask AK why she's glad we don't have video conferencing. 
Anybody have classifieds? 
Anyone? 
Anyone? 
Red Sox #1 in the East This year the curse ends 
I 
I knew it. 
Dave: When are you taking me out for chocolate chunks? I promise there won't be a cherry debacle. -The girl on your left 
Happy birthday Big Sur! 
he's going the distance he's going for speed 
What outstanding sports headlines today! 
"Here's my card. Take it!" -LJ 
The times they are a·changin'. 
I LOVE the special section. 
And Michelle Krupa ;) HAC too. 
Sprung from cages out on Highway 9, chrome-wheeled, fuel-injected, stepping out over the line. 
I was ten years old and running with a dime in my hand down to the bus stop to pick up a paper for my old man. 
And that's when I got lost in Freehold and couldn't find Little Silver. 
We learned more from a three· minute record, baby, than we ever learned in school. 
No retreat, baby, no surrender. 
Bruce has left the building. 

Q 4W g
a 
-

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS 
• NHl 



Suspended Sakic to miss first game of wild West showdown 
A!<lsociatc:d Press 
DENVEH 

DeprivNI of llwir captain for the opening playoff game. the Colorado Avalanche took a eirele-the-wagons approach to Wednesday night's matchup with the Edmonton Oilers. 
.Joe Sakic. MVP of the playoffs during Colorado's Stanley Cup championship season two years ago, was suspended for one game and fined $1,000 on Tuesday as a result of a kneeing ineident against Detroit's Kris Draper in the final regular-season game on Saturday. 
Sakic, who called the collision unintentional, said he was "shocked and surprised" by the suspension. 
''I'm prPtty upset," he said, "but we can't do anything about it now and we just have to focus on this series." 
Avalanche coach Marc Crawford said his team was "disappointed by the decision. but we've got to deal with it and move on. We've got a very formidable task ahead of us tomor­row night. It was a very tough matehup before this news, and it's a tougher matehup now." 
The Oilers themselves had varying reactions to the Nlll. action. General manager Glen Sather -asked during the Tuesday morning practice about a possible Sakic suspension, before the disciplinary measure was announced -said. "Sakic's one of the top players in the league. If he's out of there, you can probably look at it and say it's going to 
Associated Press 
PITTSBUHGII 

It's the playoff matchup that hockey fans have wanted since 1984: Montreal vs. Pittsburgh. Two of the NIIL's highest-scor­ing teams. Mario Lemieux returning to his Montreal home­town to ... 
Uhh. never mind. 

Funny that in Lemieux's 13­year Penguins career. one that included thrnn MVP awards and two Stanley Cup championships, he never once played a playoff game on his real home ice -in Montreal. 
Now. a year after Lemieux's retirement, Pittsburgh and Montreal finally meet in the postseason for the first time in their 31-year rivalry, beginning Thursday night at the Civic Arena. And Lemieux won't be the only element missing from the series that might have been. 
So will the relentless, often give us an advantage. 
"On the other hand, you can look at it and say that that team is going to rise to the occa­sion and play a lot harder because now it brings the focus down to everyone else. So I think if I had my choice, I'd rather see him not suspended. I'd rather play them straight up." 
Center Doug Weight, Edmonton's leading scorer this season, said, "It's not going to change anything. We'll have to do the same things with him in or out of the lineup. We've still got to beat a great Colorado team. We still have to play disciplined hockey, get the puck in deep, hit them and use our speed." 
Veteran defenseman Kevin Lowe disagreed. Speculating that Sakic would be suspended, Lowe said, "That would be an absolute bonus. You play the cards you're dealt. Injuries and suspensions are part of the deal. 
"Hey, listen, if they suspended Joe Sakic for seven games and we beat the Avalanche, I wouldn't feel badly at all. I wouldn't be think­ing: Well, they didn't have their best team." 
Hight winger Adam Deadmarsh figured to get the bulk of Sakic's playing time at center Wednesday night. Deadmarsh, however, missed six of the last seven regular-season games with a bruised thigh. 
Edmonton, however, enters the playoffs as one of the NHL's hottest teams, having won six of its final seven games, including the last four. 
reckless style that once charac­terized two teams equally adept at taking lots of shots and lots of risks. One team, the Canadiens, popularized firewagon hockey and the other reinvented it with Lemieux and Jaromir Jagr, who combined to win the last four NHL scoring championships. 
Could it be? A Canadiens­Penguins series decided by ... defense? 
That means the Penguins must maintain the disciplined, 

#2 Pittsbu #?Montreal 
vs 
#1 Dallas #8 San Jose #4 St. Louis #5 Los An eles #3 Detroit #6 Phoenix #2 Colorado #7 Edmonton 



low-risk style that first-year coach Kevin Constantine installed this season, one not wildly embraced by players or fans yet one that resulted in one of their best seasons ever: a 40­24-18 record and Northeast Division title. 
The Penguins' goals-against average dropped from 3.38 last season under Eddie Johnston and Craig Patrick to 2.25, by far the lowest in dub history. It was the most dramatic defensive turnaround in the NIIL, although the Canadiens' goals­against total was down by 68 under first-year eoaeh Alain Vigneault. who, like Constantine, stresses team defense and neu­tral-zone containment. 
"I think we knew all along that we'd be more suce!~ssful with hard work. and we've reinforced that," the Penguins' Stu Barnes said. "We got away from it and struggled for a while, but I think we got it back at thn right time." 

Wednesday, April 22, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 13 
-

Sheffield balks at '97 trades 
Associated Press -even before we walk on the field." 
Marlins General Manager Dave Dombrowski 

MIAMI heard Sheffield's comments on ESPN. No one 
Florida Marlins slugger Gary Sheffield claims was happy that the Marlins traded off big-name he would have restructured his $61 million con­players to slash the payroll, Dombrowski said. tract to keep the World Series champions togeth­"Anyone who is not motivated and doesn't er after last season. want to work hard, whether it be me or the 
"I would have done whatever it would have trainer Larry Starr, should just quit and go taken," Sheffield said after yet another loss home," said Dombrowski, who did not mention Monday night-this time to Arizona. Sheffield's name. 
"They could have redone (the contract) any­''I'll quit and go home, if they just send the way. and I would have taken less this year and checks to my house. I'll quit if they pay me," more later just to keep us together, and to give Sheffield said. us a chance to defend the World Series," he said. Sheffield has a no-trade clause in his contract 
The Marlins were 5-14 heading into Tuesday and must approve any deal. The New York Mets night and were still projecting a $10 million loss were the only team close to making a deal for this season. him this winter, but Sheffield said Monday that 
''I'm giving it 100 percent, just like l have he wouldn't go to New York. always done," Sheffield said. "But it is hard to Sheffield's power numbers are down. lie hit motivate yourself with a team like this. People home runs in the first two games, but hasn't hit look at this team like we are the Bad News Bears one since. 
Major League Baseball Standings 
as of April21, 1998 National League 

Eastern Division W L GB Div 
NY Mets 11 Atlanta 12 Philadelphia 7 Montreal 5 Florida 5 
Central Division , 
Milwaukee /" 12 
St. Louis / 12 
Chicago Cubs 11 
Houston 10 
Cincinnati 8 
Pittsburgh 7 
Western Division 
San Diego 14 
San Francisco 9 
Los Angeles 8 
Colorado 7 
Arizona 6 0-0 1-0 
0-0 0-0 
0-1 
0-0 
3-3 3-3 
4-7 0-0 
0-0 0-0 0-0 0-0 

Associated Press whom were ejected when the 
benches cleared last 
SEATTLE Wednesday, were not suspend­

Randy Johnson, already off ed. Johnson, Lofton and to a tough start this season Alomar all were fined undis­with the Seattle Mariners, was closed amounts. given a three-game suspension "It wasn't deliberate," Tuesday for throwing a fast­Johnson said. "I wasn't trying ball too close to Kenny Lofton's to fire up my team. It was just head last week in Cleveland. a pitch that was up and in. I've 
Johnson does not plan to thrown a million pitches that 
appeal. The penalty imposed have been up and in before. by AL president Gene Budig ''I've pitched other people a takes effect Friday, meaning lot tougher than I've pitched Johnson will miss his next him. Go ask Mike Greenwell. scheduled start Saturday night Go ask Mo Vaughn," he said. against Minnesota. Johnson is 0-1 with a 7.46 
Lofton and Indians team­ERA in his first five starts. The 
-
mate Sandy Alomar, both of former AL Cy Young winner 



• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 
Challenging academic program at Sacred Heart College in Cochin, India, focusing on the Asilw world 16 semester credits applicable towards core or major rec:·Jirements 
~[RYOHE 

Tuesday, April 21,6:30 p.m., Carroll Auditorium, Saint Mary's College 
OR 
rhursday, April 23, 5:30p.m., llesburgh Library Auditorium, Notre Dame 
Saint Mary's 
sEttESTER AROUND THE WORLD PkOGRA~ 
Open to all ND/SMC students 
Opportunity for travel and study in many countries of the Far East, Southeast Asia, South Asia, Eastern Europe and Western Europe 


I~FORNAT!OI\ AND AI'PLICATIOt'-:S AVAII~\BLE SHORT VIDEO 01'-: HIGHLIGHTS ALCH~I TO A~SWER QCESTIONS 
Any questiom, ell// Dr. C Pullapilly, 284-4468. 

TaJ Mahal 
was upset this spring when the Mariners did not give him the contract extension he wanted. 

Johnson has been moved back to start next Monday night in Kansas City. He start­ed against the Royals in the Kingdome last Monday night, but was knocked out in the ­fourth inning in a game the Mariners rallied to win 8-7. 
Mariners manager Lou Piniella and general manager Woody Woodward were upset Johnson was the only player suspended. 
"I think if you want to talk about who initiated it, I think you're looking at the wrong guy," Woodward said, refer­ring to Lofton. "I think the reaction was unnecessary by the hitter." 
Said Piniella: "Any time you have to move your No. 1 pitch­er back a few days, it affects you. I didn't see any of their players get suspended. It makes me wonder why my guy was." 
The trouble began when Johnson's first pitch -which he said was a slider -was high-and-tight. Lofton stepped toward the mound, and t.he benches emptied. 

TEACHING AND RESEARCH ABROAD!! 
Announcing The Fulbright Competition for 1999-2000. 
All first year students, sophomores and especially juniors interested in Graduate Study Abroad, don't miss the informational meeting with Professor Alain Toumayan 
Thursday evening, April23, 1998 at 6:30pm in room 126 DeBartolo. 
page 14 
The Observer· SPORTS 
• NFL 

White not quite ready to retire 
Explanation expected to come today 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE 
Just two days after announc­ing his retirement from pro football. Heggie White changed his mind Tuesday and said he intended to play for the Green Bay Parkers next season. 
"I have re-evaluated my deci­sion," White said in a statement released by the Packers. "I decided I would not retire and 
that I would play  one  more  
year."  
On  Sunday,  coach  Mike  

Holmgren said the 36-year-old defensive end told him that he was retiring because of a bad back that bothered him for most of last season. White had planned a farewell news confer­ence in Green Bay on Wednesday. 
The NFL's all-time leading sacker. an ordained Baptist minister. said he would explain why he changed his mind at the news conference. which is still planned. 
Packers spokesman Lee Hemme! oll'ered no details why White changed his mind. 
"It is his deeision and his story and he is going to explain that" Hemmel said. 
According to CNN-Sports Illustrated, White was getting his back worked on Monday when. "the Lord spoke to him and told him that he had to be a man of his word and play one 

more season for the Packers." 
Packer fans rejoiced at 
White's change of heart. 
"Wonderful. What can be bet­ter? lie's the greatest," Louis Gardipee of Green Bay said. "If he says he's healthy enough to play, he is. lie's got the good Lord on his side." 
White had 11 sacks last year, giving him 176 1/2 for his 13­year career. lie was selected to the Pro Bowl for a record 12th consecutive time despite the back problems that limited him to part-time duty. He also had walking pneumonia the last month of the season. 
White helped lead the Packers to two consecutive Super Bowl appearances. including the team's 35-21 victory over New England in 1997. The team lost this year to the Denver Broncos. 
A member of the NFL's 75th anniversary all-star team, White joined the Packers in 1993 for four years and $17 
million after eight seasons with the Philadelphia Eagles as the first big-name free agent to switch teams. 
White recently was criticized for a March 25 speech to Wisconsin lawmakers in which he spoke in racial stereotypes and assailed gay lifestyle. 
White is affiliated with a Baptist church in Knoxville, Tenn. Citing Scripture, White told the Wisconsin Assembly that one of the biggest sins is homosexuality, the Bible speaks against it. 
White, who is black, also told the largely white audience that blacks, whites, Hispanics, Japanese, Asians and Indians have different "gifts." 
White said his comments were meant to point out the positive traits of different groups. 
White later apologized for any harm his remarks may have caused. 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE presents 
Moreau Center/Little Theatre Friday, May 1st & Sunday, May 3rd • 7:30p.m. 

DIDQAND 
Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's College Box Office in O'Laughlin Auditorium, open 9 a.m.-5 p.m., Monday-Friday.
AENEAS 
I 'X3£'" ""l!Y3[" "'J'i3E" "'l'Ei![" ":5'3[" I Credit card orders by phone: 
directed by Deborah Norin-Kuehn 
219/284-4626 A fully-staged production 
S•i~trM•ry'•Coll•l•~
of Henry Purcell's work, 
MOfiff,fR./
the first English opera. 
THE ARTS 
NOTRI! OAMI!, IN 

Saint Mary's Students: 
Looking for a great way to get 
INVOLVED? 
Sign up for a Student Activities Board 
Committee and help plan fun events like 
SMCTostal and bring exciting entertainers 
to campus! 
Committees Include: 
•Comedy 
•
Entertainment 

•Movies 
and Munchies •Publicity •Speakers 

•Traditional 
Events 


Sign up at Haggar Front Desk by Fri., April 24 *Sponsored by SAB 
• 

STUDENT ACTIVITIES 
B-0-A-R-D 
SAINT MARY'S 
COLLEGE 

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Do yoV\ V\eed ex+~a cash fo~ this SV\mme~? 
The Alumf'1i Associatioft1 is hi~if'19 people who would like to wo~k f~om 
-
3vthe 31 1998 th,..V\ 3vthe 61 1998 
or reV\V\ .toV\ '98

-
f You'll have lots of fun while you earn extra spending money!!! 
Please apply at student employment 336 Grace Hall or The Alumni Association 202 Brownson Hall 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 


The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Deveron Harper (1 0) feels more comfortable returning to cornerback. 
HolyCrossCommunity Service Commitment For 111ore information on thr Holy Cross one-year Candidnte Program contact Moreau Seminary Fr. Jim King. esc Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-6385 http://www.nd.edu/-vocation 



ANSWER~ 
THECALLW
Fr. Bill Wack. c s c 

ATTENTION: 
-
--.._ ­
-

FRESHMEN AND SOPHOMORES
----·---. 

ARE YOU LOOKING FOR AN ON-CAMPUS INTERNSHIP? ARE YOU LOOKING FOR PRACTICAL BUSINESS EXPERIENCE? 

IS HIRING FOR THE FOLLOWING POSITIONS: 

play. 

"I still need to work on my coverage skills," Williams said. "They're not where I want them to be. I really want to be excel­lent in that area." 
So far Davie seems to be lis­tening to Williams pleas and observing his improvements. 
"Williams is really blessed with a lot of talent," Davie said. "He just needs some game expe­rience. And he needs consisten­c , which he will only get by in the mix." 
Davie is also confident in his lengthy list of corner backups and defensive back recruits. 
Lee Lafayette, a 5-10 rising junior who plays backup corner, contributed nine tackles in '97 and will probably be a bench player. Justin Smith, a 6-2, 185 pound rising sophomore, has made the move from wide receiver to corner. 
Next season's second string corner possibilities also include recruits Donald Dykes, 5-foot­10, 181 pounds, from Louisiana and Clill'ord Jefferson, 5-10, 175 pounds, from Texas. 
Although the corners h_ave been pressed in spring training with one-on-one drills and spe­cial defensive back-wide receiv­er practices, they will still be missing a vital link to success. The true test against the rival Wolverines on Sept. 5, in a packed Notre Dame Stadium with lights, cameras and pres­sure. 
"Your out there on an island by yourself as a corner," Davie said. "The question is can you bounce back and play without fear. And to be honest, that only comes in a stadium with the TV cameras on." 

Wednesday, April 22, 1998 
Baseball 
continued from page 20 
ed for five runs aided by a Miehigan miseue. 
After Ust was hit by a pitch to lead off the inning, Perconte lined out to third. The Wolverines' attempt to double Ust off first base skipped past the bag, and Porzel, the next batter. doubled to left center to score Ust. Todd Frye and Dan bmtherman reaehed base to set the table for Greene, who blast­ed a triple ofl' the right-center­field wall. Brock followed with a double to cap the scoring. 
"It's great to have that kind of run support," said Kalita. "You have the chance to throw differ­ent pitches, knowing that the offense and defense will keep you in the game .." 
Today the Irish face interstate foe Valparaiso in a doublehead­er beginning at 6 p.m. before hosting Toledo tomorrow evening. 
Notre Dame enters the game riding a 10-game win streak. 
"It's definitely tough to go on the road, especially when you have to do all the traveling in one day," said Kalita. "We're looking forward to a strong 
IF YOU ARE INTERESTED, PLEASE FILL OUT AN APPLICATION AT 
300 LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER. 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, April 22, 1998 
• MEN's GOLF 
Irish must wait to hear about NCAA tournament 
By GENE BRTAUK Sports Writer 
Tlw nwn's golf SPason has bPPn rPdLH~I'd to a waiting gamP. 
Al"tPr a sixth place finish this WPPkPnd at the KPplt'l" Invitational, the tPam now must sit back and wait to see if the NCAA committe!.' will base their judgmnnt on the outstanding spring that the Irish have had and thnir arhievernents from the fall, such as their third straight Big Ew;t rhampionship. 
Thn tnam knnw that eaeh mem­bPr would havt~ to pPrform to the bPst of his ability in order to firm­ly convince thl' snlection eommit­tPP. Al"tnr an opening round of 291'\, tlw team faltf~red again in tlw second round and shot a 303, which droppPd them into seventh placP allPr day one. The Irish had another one of their typical third rounds with tlw team as a whole striking the ball !irmly and mak­ing putts for a 294, one of the top scores for the day. 
On the fu·st day the Irish were led by surging sophomore Jeff Connell frnsh oil as a runner-up finish at the Marshall Invitational. Connell's 72 (E) was his fourth straight round of shooting par or lower, but he struggled the next two rounds and tired rounds of 77 and 75 to finish in 23rd plaee out of 82 competitors. 
Following Connell in round one were sophomore Todd Vernon 
... 
University College Dublin 
The Michael 
and junior Brad Hardin who both shot a 75. Willie Kent rounded out the scoring f(>r the Irish with his four-over 76. 
Vernon and Kent wnre the only ones whose scores stayed even or lowered in the seeond round. 


Vernon beat his first round seore by two strokes and then matched it the final day. I lis rounds of 75­73-73 were good enough to put him in 14th plaee. 
Kent shot another 76 in round two, but on Sunday rPturrwd to 
PRIME 
SPACE FOR YOUR GRADUATIONDINNER 

OPEN (}l~AJ)(TAr:l1 10N 'YEEI{ENl >'­
FRIDAY, l\L-\Y 15, :i-11 P:\1 SArrURD.AY 1\L\Y IH, :i-11P:\1 SCNDAY :\I.AY 17 :~-HP:\1 
222 S. lVIICHIGAN 
SOUTH BEl\'"D (21 n> 2:l.J.-.)200 
the form that hn showcasml Parli­nr in the spring. lie canw to tlw 16th t11e at five under par. Two bogeys on the linal thrnP holes lnl't Km1t with a 61J filr th11 round and in a til' with Vernon for tlw tournanwnt. 

Sizzle t Hits 

.. 
'-. : ~ /
..t"2-~"'; 
":..':_.._.,._ 
·•·••,,··.. XW·.'

MEIJE" Your 24-flour Music Connection Sale prices good 4/22-28 


--~---~----~~---~~---~ 
Wednesday, April 22, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 17 
• BOOKSTORE BASKHBALL XXVII 
Clowns, Five Guys, Grumpy Dudes advance to 32 

ByMATTYUNG The scrappy Punching Sports Writer Clowns scored several of their first half points on fast Notre Dame's version of breaks,implemented a full April Madness began yester­court press to go on an 8-0 day when the 64 remaining run and led 11-6 at the break. teams set out to reduce the The better conditioned field to 32. Punching Clowns dominated 
An unexpected addition to the second half by pushing the the Big Dance's guest list was ball up the court, limiting Mike Punching Clowns, who upset Tyson to a speckling of Elliot's No. 13 Next on Monday. outside shots, and eventually Punching Clowns, composed of winning 21-10. Knott sophomores Pat Nolan, Punching Clowns' center, Pat Pete Strati!, Alex Paul, James Strati!, led the team with Gagen, and Brian Leider faced seven points and modestly Mike Tyson, Marv Albert, and expressed his excitement for 3 Other Guys Who Bite, com­the round of 32. "We're happy posed of Dillon seniors Jared to still be playing and ready to Elliot, Matt Rodgers, Ben Troy, get wild." Tim Hemler, and Jason Krieg. One of the night's closest 
r======~================~===================9 
EXCITING HONG KONG 
FALL BREAK OCTOBER 18-25 
$1365.00 total!!! 
AIRFARE FROM SOUTH BEND 1st CLASS HOTEL-6 NIGHTS SIGHTSEEING, TRANSFERS 
CALL FOR RESERVATIONS 

. 

5. a.-.. ,1~ 
E Mail: Ietstalk@michiana.org 
A--l-~ l-E. Nr 1~ ll) N S() \) l-1 0 Ml) ~\ L~ S \ 
Orders may now be placed for your class rings! 

Order your official Notre Dame Class Ring. 9 a.m. to 7p.m. Monday -Friday 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Saw·day II a.m. to 5 p.m. Sunday 
Use Observer classifieds for those end-of-the-year THANK YOUs. 
The Rites of Spring For 
Juniors 
• 
Bookstore Basketball 

• 
Christmas In April 

• 
Blue-Gold Game 

• 
Resume Submitted To Career and Placement Office For Database and Resume Books 


noon in room 219. Please call Teo at4•3013 or email cteodoro@nd.edu. Drop~In Volleyball~ RecSports will be span­· soring it every Wednesday and Friday from 8­11 p.m. in the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. 
Drop-In Badminton -RecSports will be sponsoring every Friday from ('.:to p~m ..in the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center for the rest of 
.the semester. 
... 

page 18 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, April 22, 1998 
• BOOKSTORE BASKETBAlL :XXVII 
Serpico disqualified; Off-Shore Drilling survives 
By JOE CAVATO "We're just going to continue to play t\ssoci.Itc Sports Fditor our ganw and hopnfully it will continue for us," said Spencer. 
Tlw gimmick tPams and all of tlw pPo­On thP othPr hand. Soldiers had to put plt• who only pick up a ball for Bookston• in a full dav's work and then some to BaskPtball havP bePn l'liminatnd.Tlw advance over Militant Wing of the n•maining tPams turrwd it up a IPvPI in Salvation Army, 22-20. tlw mund of f>--l. last night. Varsity basketball players continued to 
ControvPrsy marred the best game of strut their stuff as both Derek Manner's tlw night and probably of the tourna­Wax and Nick Wills' So Solid took care of nwnt thus far. as Serpico was disquali­business to continut\ their search for bas­fiPd after dPI'Pating No. 17 seed ketball glory at Notre Dame. Consuming Fire last night. Top-seeded Primetimt\ took care of 
Consuming Fin•. IPd by Kory Minor Given to Fly 21-13, but the contest was appan•ntly lost a marathon 23-21. not as easy as the score might indicate. 
"It was an unfortunate situation. but Primetime's Steve Craig hurt his ankle tlwy had a playnr who had played for early in tlw second half. but by the end sonwonP t' lsP ... !wad romm issioner Dan of the game he appeared to be back at Delaney said. "So. WP had to disqualify full speed. them to rPmain consistent with the "Tonight's game went well and every­rulPs." one played well." Primetime's Kevin 
Consuming Fin• lwld a 20-1 (> lead. but Hughes said. "Steve hurt his ankle, but somn strong dPfense and poor shot sPier­we don't think it's too bad and we're just lion IPft tlw door open for the comeback. icing it and resting it as much as possi­
!hlP to tlw violation though. Consuming ble." Fin• will gPI anotlwr lifP as tlwy will tab~ Last night marked tlw lirst round that on Burn ·n Shoot tonight at 10 p.m. officials and froe throws came into the 
No. 3 Off-shore Drilling IPd by the picture. This did have an effect on how mammoths. \-likP KosPnthal and Tim the games were played. Hiddnr in tlw paint, survivPCI a couplP of "It bPing the lirst round I think officials srarl's in yPstnrday's action. (;ametime are getting used to the players and I rollPd around and OfT-shore was without don't think they know exartly how to call tlwir two guards who thought the game it." Hughes said. "I think some commis­was an hour later. sioners will talk to the refs and hopefully 
Tlw ganw startnd without tlwm and they will have some influence. They OfT-Short' Drilling stallPd tlw action by railed three chargPs in our game which playing knPp away from Captain D-Child is just unheard of in Bookstore." and tlw SPanwn. Coast-to-Coast came back from a 0-3 
AftPr Off-Shore finally got tlwir team deficit to The Boys of Winter and won togPtlwr. tlwy battlPd with a team com­21-15 in another game in which the offi­prisPd of PntirPiy frnshnwn, who certain­cials did not seem to know when to put ly did not play likl' it was their first year their whistles in their pockets. Both in Bookston•. squads wPre whistled for I0 fouls in the 
Tlw IH'wronwrs took a I 1-l) lead into first half. which made free throws an tlw sncond half. but rould not keep the important part of the contest. offpnsiVP liiH'lllPn off tlw offtmsivf~ glass. "They could have let us play a little 
With a combination of outside shooting more, but it worked both ways and I from tlwir guards, Sean Perkins and Pat don't think it had any influence on the BrPntHtn, and the strong play in the post. outcome," Dave Mikolyzk of Coast-to­OfT-ShorP held ofT Captain 0-Child and Coast said. "In some other games, the thl' SPamen to advance to the round of officials were being a little more lax." :~2 with a 21-18 victory. Coast-to-Coast, who already defeated 
No. 12 sePd B Diddy and the Fam again No. 1R seeded Festival Lasagna, will try madn quirk work of their opponfmt as to knock ofT another seed as they face they thumped Tortfeasors 21-6 in just Your Mom, the No. 14 seed. over 2(J minutes. "I think everything is coming together 
"I think we've been playing real well." well," Mikolyzk said. "Tomorrow we play
a really good team, but I ,....---___:___::._________________________________--, 

.larnit~ Sprmenr said. "We've been trying difTeront things and trying to find our don't think we're going stnmgths." to do anything different. 
Sp1•ncer and Tony Driwr lead the team Maybe will switch up as that has taken advantage of their athleti­the game goes on, but l'isrn and c!Pfnnsivf' pressure to cruise our game plan is the into the round of :12. same." 
"We corn plPrnPnt each otlwr real well Beginning tonight at and our ddensive trap is a strength." 7:45, Stepan Courts will Spencer said. again btl loaded with 
Tonight B Diddy and the Fam will be bailers as the remaining put up to tlw test as thPy will challenge squads fight to be Soldiers. led by A'.Jani Sanders and Deke deemed worthy of the 
Cooper. · Sweet Sixteen. 
SMC Tostal Tentative Event Schedule Thursday April 23, 1998 
CARNIVAL 
12-4pm-Games on the Green *Jou!->t *Bungee Run 
•Velcro Wall •••12-6pm. llue to problems transporlin~ Extreme Air. the vertical edge rock climbing wall (as seen on the Tonight Show) will be substituted. We will also have boxing, speed pitch and 
an obstacle <.'oursc. Sorry for the im.·onvcnience. *** 1~7pm-Munchit.•s-snow cones, cotton candy. pop corn. chips. cookies and pop 
2-6pm • Dancin' at the DH 
+[)Jon steps of the Dining Hall 3·7pm . Caricaturist · on the Library Green 3-Spm • Clown on the Green 
*balloon animals and fun tricks 3-Spm · Canoe Races in Lake Marion 4-Spm • Carnival Games 
•Rollerblading around campus· Angela Athletic Center 
•t'risbee Toss· LeMans Green 4-6pm-Sand Volleyball Tournament-Sand Courts by Angela 4:4S-6:30pm • SMCnic . all your favorite picnic foods plus colton candy. pop corn and snow cones (Notre Dame Student~ can get co-ex tickets at ND) 
6-7pm-Twister Tournament-LeMans Green 7-10:45 -llrigade or llands ·Library Green and Haggar Terrace *Hotel Prati* 7-X: 15 on the Library Green 
.. *Letter H* 8:15-9:30 on the Terrace •Gravity Hill* 9:30-10:45 on the Terrace 
llpm. Drive in Movie on the Green· Air Force One *Piaa and Soda will be served 
SMC Toslal Raffle 
Get a rarne ticket when you huy a t-shirl or play a game. 
Prizes Donated By: 
T.G.I. f'riday"s Juice & Java Fun Tan Express SPIECE 
Spagcddic' Bath & Body Works 
The Inn at Saint Mary's 
Bookstore Basketball 
Wednesday's Games to Watch 
7:4~ p.m. 

Primetime v. Wee 3 Gonna S.oootAH Over You ,,.,~,.,wax v. Tastetull'~ bone SFB~.v. Stir lt.t:Jr:),.,.,.., 
_yif<~~,,~"' _,.,,_ 
.f::-~' 

"'"'""'"""'"""'"'""""''"'····· :;''"',_,,.. "'' 8:30',,,,P.~ m. Absolut Irish v;;;;t~g_o Legion: O,ur B~y's Y"Jick~d Smart In Memory ol.McConn v. Pr~tnal D1vers1on 
,.if 

So Solid v. Slow Your, Roll 
''',.. \,
9:15p.m. ,, 

B. Diddy & i:Jhe t='am. v. Soldie(s BV\l.8 Bolivian Yaks y. Grumpy Old Dudes (GOD) 
,;"' Your Moni v. Coast-to-Coast Mickey'f v. 5 Guys who f1refer Eating Out to the, Dining Hall 
i Burn 'n' s~~~~O~ 8~~Uming Fire \ 
\, Still tfluddy v. RSVP 
No LimiJ v. Dirty Sanchez Punching Clow:n v. Show Me the Money ~ 
I 
1Q:45 p.m. 

Off Shore Drilling v. Cabo Wabo Malicious Prosecl!ttion v. Russel the Mussel 

.-------------­
-----------~~--------~--~------­
page 19

Wednesday, April 22, 1998 The Observer • TODAY 

YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
Aries: Early meetings should be productive. You'll have good advice to give, which will benefit the whole group. You might even find yourself in a position of leadership again. 
Taurus: If you can hold ofT a little longer, you're likely to get what you want. If you push, you probably won't. This evening, conditions are more in your favor. 
Gemini: You're pretty flexible, and you're going to MIKE PETERS be the one who has to give a
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM little today. Unfortunately, several people have opin­
soQ...o&INe 'THe: ... se:Fol<c s~£ 
ions about what you shouldNEWSPAPER £JSEV' 1Z) eo;ri\JTC be doing with your time. 
Cancer: Once you get your financial situation straight­ened out, plan an adven­ture. You and your sweet­heart need a vacation. A visit to friends or in-laws would be an excellent choice. 
Leo: During the morning, strong individuals in your life may think they've found the opening to tell you how 
SCOTT ADAMS 

6S so MOCH EASIER.,, ORIC:,AMI. 
they really feel. Don't worry. 
DILBERT 
You can turn this game 
CAN I BRU51-\ YOUR \-\AND WHEN 'YOU GIVE ME TI-\E 

l AM THE. ONL't' ATTRfo.CTIVE
SOMETHING ... 
CROSSWORD 


ACROSS 29 Infamous 1972 46Culinary hurricane cover-ups
1 Astrology 
concern 30Swindles 47 Hank the slugger
& Gladiatorial 31 Half of a 1955 
48--tse,
combat site merger: Abbr. 
Chinese11 Pileup 34 Cloister philosopher
14 Young inhabitants 49 Entree for actor 
screecher 
35-hand Norris? 15 Approaches (assist) 
54 Traffic caution 16 Literary olio 
36 Qualified 

55 Borden bovine 11 Places where 
37 Susan of "L.A. 56 Kukla's pal singer Joel Law" 57 Invitesings? 
38 Longing looks sa Pairs

19 Late-breaking story carrier 
39 Monastery head 59 Prevarication 20 Play the ham 40 Valuable coins 21 Novice 42 Photoelectric 
DOWN 23 Issues a decree cell element 26 Bubble gum 43 Old English 1 Blubber collectibles sheepdog 2 Light beginning 27 Snare loops feature 3Thewhole 28 "Oh! Susanna" 45 Lab liquid enchilada composer measurer 4 Press statements 
5 Baffles ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE & Citibank nos. 
7 Stage part 24 Scoundrel 8 Outback bird 25 Watering spot 9 Six-time Orange for one of theBowl champs 
Osmonds? 26 Sniffles cases 28 More splendid 30 Ring holding a 
watch crystal 32 Treat with scorn 33"-CaiiYou 

Sweetheart" 35With extravagance 3&Withoutthinking (intermittently) 38 Ricocheted 
39 Kind of spray 41 Simpson trial 
judge 42 Junkyard dogs 43 Raft material 44 Girasol and 
hyalite 45 Swelters 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute) . 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: (BOO) 762-1665. 

around on them 
Virgo: You've got a busy day ahead of you. You could run into a technical break­down, so don't take any­thing for granted. Always have a backup system avail­able. 
Libra: You'll be in the 
47 Sour so Dos Passos trilogy 51 Pharmaceutical giant--Lilly 52 Department in France 53 Powder holder 
mood to work later in the day. If your job has flexible hours, you're in luck. In the morning, however, anything but being with your sweet­heart will feel like an outra­geous inconvenience. 
Scorpio: Something you don't want anymore would be the perfect gift for a friend. Don't take any money for it. You'll get more for it in bargaining chips than you would in cash. 
Sagittarius: What you need today are facts. That's the only way to convince a co-worker you know what you're talking about. It's also the only way to beat out your competition -possibly the same person. 
Capricorn: There's a con­
flict between love and 
money. Does your sweet­
heart want to buy some­
thing you don't think is a 
good idea, or is it the other 
way around? Figure out 
what you need. 
Aquarius: You can do a 
lot of those household pro­
jects yourself. You have the 
money, but there's no need 
to spend it. Talk it over with 
a knowledgeable relative 
and be willing to learn. 
Pisces: Take your time 
and do things right. You 
may not get a chance to do 
them over, especially i 
you're dealing with a large 
company or bureaucracy. 




Nicotine is so deadly that it is used as an insecticide..... do you really want to put that in your body??? 
Sponsored By The Office Of Alcohol and Drug Education 
-
·-· 
.... 
.. 
... 

I 
I 
~ 
l 
SPORTS 

The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Ty Goode, shown here knocking a pass away from a West Virginia receiver last fall, is returning for a fifth year and looking to claim a starting role at cornerback . 
• SPRING fOOTBAll 

Harper, Williams, Goode battle for corners 
By M. SHANNON RYAN Saint Mary's Euiwr 

Tlwy've got the action; it's only the lights and tlw cameras that next ~wason's corrwrbacks are missing. 
With tlw dPparture of Allen Hossum and Ivory Covington, replacnments Ty (loodn, I>PvPron llaqwr and Brock Williams will have somP pretty large riPats to fill. 
"Obviously, it's going to bP about PXpe­riPJH't~ -big ganw expPrinncn. That's what I'm concerrwd about." head coach Hob Davin said. "From the standpoint of big gamt~s. Allen Hossum and Covington an~ hard to rPplarP. 
"J(IoodP, Harper and Williams! have workNl hard and wmpetnd," said Davie. "But tlw thing about a corrwr is, can he do it when tlw lights am on and when the stadium's full." 
llownvPr, Goode, coming ba<:k !'or a fifth year. is l'ully aware what a crazed stadium can lw likt~. 
It was Goodn who fillnd in for Hossum 
• BASLALL 
in the final home gamn against West Virginia last season and grabbed the memorable endzone intnn:eption. 
Although that gamesaver was his longest moment in the spotlight, the 5­

The junior-to-be has begun the transi­tion back from frm~ safety to his natural position at cornerback. 
"Harper is physical," Davie said. "He'll make the tackles but he nneds to become 
foot-1 I, 188-pounder star:kcd up considerable numbers for a non­startnr last fall. 
Playing all 12 games at cornnr, Goodn made 33 tacklns (27 solo. six assistPdl last year. 
He was plugg~~d in as a startl~r at Pittsburgh where he made four solo taekles while Covington was side­lined. Two weeks later against Boston College, 
' HARPER IS PHYSICAL. HE'LL MAKE THE TACKLES BUT HE NEEDS TO BECOME A COVERAGE GUY' 
Bas DAVIE 1/EAD FOOTBALL COACI/ 
a coverage guy." 
Although Harper began as a backup cor­nerback his sophomore year ami at the start of last season, he was nanwd a starting safety by thn filth game. 
Against Stanford, Ilarper debuted at tlw position with eight tackles. Two weeks later against USC, Harper recorded his gamn-bPst with 10 
Goode individually brought down five ball tackles. 

carriers. By the end of the season, I larpnr had 
''I've worked a lot on technique," Goode tallied 60 tackles in his night starts. said. "I want to be a consistency player. I During limited playing time at corner know sometimf~S I didn't play as good in his sophomore year. the 5-foot-11, 185­some gamns as others." pounder had seven tackles. 
Now, bark at his covntl'd position, Ilarpnr feels at honw. 
"I fnnl good about the Jswitrhl." llaqwr said. "I got c.onlidnnt at f'rnP safPty, but corner is just mom natural to nw bPcausP of my size." 
But his coach claims that tlw advantagP is purdy physical. 
"I think what gives him tlw advantagP is that lw's a physical conwr." IJavin said. "lin can rowr a rPally gil"tPd rPcPiwr." 
For Ilaqwr's transition to go smoothly. Jw wiJJ IWPd to gr•t bark into !IW rombat­iVP, man-to-man attitude and adjust to his nnw point of vit~w. 
"I basically work mon~ on !man-to­man I and on eorralling the ball l'rcun dif­fenmt angles." llarpnr said. "I just lrwed to keep! getting strong<!r and btdng aggressive." 
But llarpnr and Goode an~ not tlw only ones that IJaviP has in mimi. 
Williams, a sophomorn, makns his argunwnt for tlw starting position SPPlll 
see CORNERS/ page I'i 

-Streaking Irish maul Michigan 
By ALLISON KRILLA 
Associate Spom F.ditor 

Not 1wen Motlwr NaturP could end the Notre Danw baseball team's strr~aks. 
Hain thmatPrwd to cancPI last night's 7 p.m. con­tnst at Old KPnt Park in Grand Hapids, Mieh., but it lwld ofT long enough !'or thn Irish to defeat the Wolverinns 9-1. !'or their ninth straight road win. 
Lefty Tim Kalita (:~-0) tossed seven and one-third innings to earn the win. allowing two hits and three walks while fanning five. 
An error on a ground ball in the eighth led to the lorw unearned Wolverines run, and extended the pitching stairs stnmk to 27 innings without giving up an earned run. The stall has now allowed only orm earned run in the last 50 innings . 
.. 
"It's a huge aceomplishrnent," said Kalita about the stn~ak. "but it doesn't sur·prise me. We have a grnat pitching stall, and this just shows what we're <:apable ol' doing." 
Freshman Aaron lleilman relieved Kalita in the unci a streak of his own -15 consecutive appear­ances and 21 2/3 straight innings of shutout base­ball. 
The Irish began the game with a bang, scoring two runs in the first. Jeff Felker executed a hit-and run-to platn Allen Greene, who drew a walk to lead off the game. Jeff Wagner hit into a double play, but not beforn J.J. Brock scampered home with the sec­om! run. 
Neither tPam eould put runs on the board in the next live innings, although Kalita struggled early. The sophomore settled down in the third, retiring eight straight batters through the sixth inning. 
"I struggled in the first couple innings," said Kalita, "but I found my control as the game went on. I had a pretty good curve, and my fastball start­ed working well too." 
Notm Dame tacked on two more runs in the sev­enth, as Wagner and Brant Ust scored on a sac !ly by Jc!T Perconte and a ground out by Alec Porzel, respectively. 
Taking a 4-1 lnad into the ninth, the Irish explod-

The Observer/Jeff Hsu 

eighth and proceeded to pitch a scoreless ninth fOJ" 
Jeff Felker, seen above in earlier action, put the Irish on top with a

his sixth save. Heilman struck out three and contin­
see BASEBALL I page 15 run-scoring single in the first inning of a 9-1 victory over Michigan.
-

Valparaiso (DH) Big East Tourney at Miami~: Wednesday, 6 p.m. 
,/~ Friday-Sunday, TBA Q) •Bookstore Basketball results 
at Harvard 

~ 
Big East at Miami Saturday, I p.m. 
see pages J7, l 8 I~ Thursday-Sunday, TBA 

.--= ..... 
at Toledo (DH) Tennis vs. Albion

s0 CIJ •Men's golf team waiting on NCAAs
~w 
Thursday, 3 p.m. see page 16 Thursday, 3 p.m. 
Softball vs. Defianceat Columbia 
S0 ~ wjJ 
Friday, 3 p.m. Saturday, Noon
~ 
~ 







