
• Couldn't make the Depeche Mode concert 
• How safe are the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame 
Wednesday

in London? ND grad student Sean King, 
campuses? Women's News explores issues of security 
and rape awareness.

studying in England brings you a review. 
OCTOBER 7,

Scene • 14-15 
Women's News • 3 
1998 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 33 
• !\JEWS ANALYSIS 

Profs disagree on effectiveness of clause 
By TIM LOGAN AS>i.c.mr News Ediror 
Thursday, tlw Univorsity's AcadPmic Council will wrPstle with issues of law and nduca­Lion wlwn it ddHLtns Llw addi­tion of snxual orinntation to No ln~ I l a nw 's lnga I non dis­!'rimination dausn. 
This addition would grant sPxual oriPntation tlw samn fpgal protnrtion !'llrrnntly oiTI'rl'd to racn, g(~ndnr and sPvPral otlwr dassilirations. 
Tlw issun is a rompiPx orw that still oral laws, Notre Dame is allowed to discriminate in admissions and hiring based on snxual orientation. Unlike race, g(mdnr. age and disabili­ty. snxual orinntation is not n~quirml in the non-discrimi­nation clausns of institutions which rncnivn fm!nral govern­mont funds. 
Hie(~ notnd that snxual orien­tation ('.an bn difficult to deter­minn, unlike morn apparent qualitins such as race or age -and that could make Notre 

sparks twatPd 'IT'S [THE NONDISCRIMI-
d P h a t P . NATION CLAUSE] INVIT­SPVPral mPrn­
lNG LITIGATION TO NO
hPrs of tho law school FRUITFlJL OR USEFlJL PUR­fa('ulty said 
POSE ••• IT'S A CAN OF
rPvisiilg thP non-disnirni­WORMS.' nation claus(~ could bP a Dame more susceptible to lawsuits. 
The amend­mont could also bring lawsuits from people hoping to test tlw U n ive rs ity on this issun, according to Hobert Blakey, professor of 

mistake. C!JA/UE\' RICE law. "It's inviting NoTilF /J;\ME LtwPROFESSOR "1 f it was 
litigation to no fruitful or useful purpose," said Charles !{ice, professor of law. "It's a can of worms." 
University administrators dPcided against the anwnd­nwnt in l1JIJ7. instead adopt­ing tlw non-binding "Spirit of ln('lusion" stat(~mnnt calling 0 II nw Ill hers 0 f lllP N0 t r e llanw ('.ornrnunity to "welcome all people, rPgardless of color, gPtHIPr ... SPxual orientation 
prerisely lwrause of Christ's calling to trPat otlwrs as wn desirn to lw trPated." 
Sill('(' last August. certain groups havP requnsted that tlw UniHrsity hark up tlw Spirit of Inclusion statnnwnt with sorrwlhing legally binding -nanwly, tlw non-discrimi­nation clausn. 
llndPr cuJTt~nt statP and fnd­
legally enforce­able, people would look for occasions," he said. "They want to picket, to sue, to argun, because they want to change public opinion on this issue. Tlwy want to have this discussion. and they want to continue this discussion if the Univnrsity doesn't live up to its end." 
Some professors noted that if Notre DamP chooses to amnnd the clause, the University would bn nspecially vulrwrable to litigation if it does indPnd discriminate based on snxual orientation. 
"II' we hold out this promise and don't live up to it, then it's a breach of contract." said Barbara Fi(:k, associate pro-
see CLAUSE I page 6 

WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 

A day of celebration at SMC 
By ELLEN ANDERSON 
News Wrircr 
Even a downpour could not cast a shadow on Saint Mary's Pride Day. 
In a culmination of the events of the day, students, faculty and administrators stood on the front lawn of LeMans Hall for over a half-hour in the rain as photographors assembled them into tho French cross, the sym­bol of Saint Mary's CoiiPge, for an aerial photo to comnwmo­rate the day. 
Bofore the rain began. Marilou Eldred on the one-year anniversary of her inauguration as tho prnsidont of tho College, addressed a spirited student body. 
''I'm sure you all remember every word of the inauguration speech a year ago today that talked about thnHl priorities for the college during the coming years: enhancing curriculum, strengthening Saint Mary's ties to the larger world, and strengthening our internal cam­pus community," she said. "I would like to take just a minute to rennet on what has happened with each of those during the past year." 
Eldred cited the newly creatnd landscape project as part of the effort in the past year to enhanee eurrieulum. The pro­ject includes exhibits in sevnral South Bend galleries. 
She then spoko of the College's strong sense of eom­munity, which includod a recog­nition of the various service lnan1ing and voluntnnr pro­grams attended by the women of Saint Mary's. 
Eldrod also took time to ree­ognizn the founders of tho College. 
"From tho founding days of the college by the Sisters of the 
see SMC I page 6 


ND aims to increase diversity without affirmative action 
By MAGGY TINUCCl lar quotas, we certainly look students with a door and tell key to open it. They arc giving able. N,•w, Wrirrr to enhancn the diversity of them to get through it the best minority students the opportu­Both Flemming and Outlaw oach class," said Christie way they know how," Outlaw nity to walk through the door." pointed to two main factors 
Africa n-Anw rican studn nl.s Flnrnrning of the OITiee of The fourth-leading to this large disparity adrnittPd to tho nation's pros­Undnrgraduate 
year gradua­in graduation ratos. tigious univnrsitins under Admissions. "Students of tion rate for Primarily. 'Notn~ Danw otTers al'lirrnativn action policins are dil'f'erent racial back­' ~ FFIRMATIVE ACTION PRE­African a different onvironnwnt for showing graduation rates grounds add to the American stu­many African Anwriean stu­
fi.sENTS THESE STUDENTS 
approaching thosn of thnir University not only ethni­dents was 60.3 dents. whitn pnPrs. according to ·a cally, but add difTerent WITH THE DOOR BUT GIVES THEM percent while "We sometinws do not o!Ter study rPlPasnd in "Tiw .Journal pnrsp(lCtivns as well." that of white the most wnleorning nnviron­
THE KEY TO OPEN IT.' 

of · Blacks in Higher But Iris Outlaw, direc­students was mnnt for students who arn not l·:d tlt'ation." tor of the Office of 91.4 percent, Catholic," said Flnmming. Slw Although the University of Multicultural Student lms OunA w according to pointed out how this differs 
Notrn llanw was not involv1~d Affairs, said that affir-DmECTOR OF OFFICE OF MliLTICUI.TllllAL STUDENT AFFAIRS Institutional from the Hispanic community in tlw study lwcaUS(~ it do1~s rnative action should not Hesearch at thn at the University. not practicn an official afl'ir­be equated with quotas University of "Many are Catholic, and n~li­mativn action policy. incrnas­directly, hut more with Notre Dame gion is a large part of' who our ing diversity at the Univnrsity giving students an equal said. "Affirmative action pre­and the 1998 Fact Book. This Latino students are," said is a priority. chance. sents these students with the data, from the fall of 1992, is 
"Whiln we have no partieu-"Some institutions present same door but gives them the the most current that is avail-see ACTION I page 4 
page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 


Service for all? 
There is an issue that has gone ignored for too long, and it must be called to every­one's attention. 
While the Inside Column is not always the home of serious com­mentary, I just want 
Dan McDonoughto take this occasion Assistant Viewpoint to reflect on some­Editor 

thing that should be important to all of us. The issue is the option for the poor. 
The option for the poor is the Catholic Church's stance on social service and social action. As Catholics we are supposed to opt to help the least among us, no matter what our station in life or personal feelings. We are supposed to evaluate our actions to con­sider how they will effect the poor and then work to make our earth a better place to live. 
To act in accordance with the option for the poor is not easy, but then again, no one ever claimed that being Catholic was sup­posed to be easy. 
Of course no one individual can end poverty alone, but it is still vitally important that we take action to change the state of the world. We must still think of ways that we can have an impact in our community. 
Why? 

Because this is a Catholic school that teaches Christ's message. Christ said that the meek shall inherit the earth, and that the last shall be first. Jesus taught his fol­lowers to forego their earthly possessions and look to his teachings for fulfillment. Hopefully, this information doesn't come as a shock to the kids driving the forty thou­sand-dollar Range Rovers, but it is in the Bible in case you have forgotten. 
Notre Dame is special because of its Catholic character, not because we have a great accounting department. Mind you, this is not a knock against the business pro­gram, but there is more to life than count­ing money. The Catholic Bishops in the United States have realized that our free­market system encourages greed for money and power, and in case it slipped your mind those are not attitudes advocated in the Bible. 
We attend a University that offers us the chance to take an Urban Plunge, perform Summer Service, and even get work-study jobs at the Center for the Homeless. There are so many service opportunities for stu­dents that there is no room for any type of excuse. Either get involved and help those who are in need or stop pretending to be Catholic or Christian. There are many peo­ple who need to wake up to the fact that fol­lowing Jesus' example involves more than going to mass on Sundays. 
This ranting is not aimed at those many students who are actively involved in ser­vice activities. Rather, this is merely an attempt to get through to those thick head­ed and selfish people who look down on those who are not socio-economically the same as them. Of course there arc plenty of students who are involved in making this world a better place. 
However, there are also many students who arc unwittingly making it worse. Which side are you on? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•TO!)AY's STAFF  
News  Scene  
Colleen McCarthy  Emmett Malloy  
Tom Enright  Dominic Caruso  
Chris Lawler  Graphics  
Sports  Mark Higgins  
Matt Mulherin  Production  
Viewpoint  Shannon Ryan  
Eddie Llull  Lab Tech  
Jeff Hsu  

The Ob.<ervcr (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday t:xccpr during exam and vacation periods. The Ob!.ervc:r h a member of the A)l...aciared Prt:!l!l. All reproducrion righrs arc re!lerved. 
Wednesday, October 7, 1998
The Observer • INSIDE 



utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
University of Pittsburgh bans alcohol in selected dorms 
PITTSBURGH, Penn. 
As part of an effort to decrease alcohol consumption on campus, a university committee has designated three residence halls as alcohol-free and has begun to offer awards to students who avoid alcohol abuse. 
Towers A and B and Amos Hall have been designated as alcohol­free residential quarters, according to Dr. Steve Sivulich, chairman of the Residential Living Committee. 
"{That means) that no one, even if they are 21, can bring alcoholic bev­erages into them," he said. 
While Sivulich said he doesn't think there is a particular problem with alcohol abuse on Pitt's campus, he said the University is trying to prevent problems from arising in the future. 
Pitt's urban location enables stu­dents to drink in local bars rather than on campus. Supermarkets and convenience stores do not sell alco­

Part of the residential living com­mittee's objective is to increase the number and variety of activities for resident students. Sivulich said the committee will concentrate on activ­ities promoting a residential life free from disturbances associated with drinking, such as noise, vandalism and physical altercations. 
Freshman Alex Gill, who lives in Tower B. supports the alcohol-free designation. 
"There are mostly freshmen and sophomores living in the towers, and none of us are of drinking age," Gill said. "I enjoy my quiet time. If they want to, (other students) can go ofT campus to drink." 
Freshman Mathew Hoffan agreed. "Designating the towers as alco­hol-free is fine with me," he said. However, the new rule was not met with acceptance by all students. 
"These Towers are supposed to be our homes," said Jay Reichenbach­er. 
"Having restrictions placed on you plus ... having no choice in thn mat­ter is not what I call home. People cause problems regardless of whether they are drunk or not," he said. "Besides, people come into these Towers with concealed beer cans." 
• VALE UNIVERSITY 

Students rally for faculty diversity 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. 
On Friday, students gathered on Cross Campus for a "Speak Out" rally to demand changes in Yale's academic policies, and then marched to protest at Yale University President Richard Levin's office in Woodbridge Hall. Students at the rally, which was co-sponsored by the Student Coalition for Diversity and the Tenure Action Coalition, expressed complaints about Yale's tenure policies, the sizes of certain academic programs, and how these two problems are responsible for keeping the Yale faculty disproportion­ately white and male. Just six percent of tenured faculty are minorities and eleven percent are women. Organizers said they hoped to educate and energize the student body about their cause, and to demonstrate their resolve for enacting change. By chalking pathways and postering, the student groups informed the Yale community that Yale has made some progress in diversifying the student body -it is now composed of 50 percent women and 30 percent minorities. 
• UNiVEf!S!TV OF UTAH 

Environmental projects save money 
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah 
Thanks to conservation projects on college campuses, 
$16.8 million is being saved across the nation. Green 
Investment, Green Return, a new report released recently by 
the National Wildlife Federation, shows savings of $16.8 mil­
lion were achieved through 23 cost-cutting conservation 
programs at 15 post-secondary institutions across the 
nation. Savings per project ranged from $1,000 to $9 mil­
lion, which works out to an average of $728,500 per cam­
pus. Possibilities for savings would be even more impressive 
if the 3,700 higher education institutions in the country 
began projects of a similar nature, according to the report. 
In a press rnlease, the NWF stated, "Because college cam­
puses are microcosms of society, they possess incredible 
potential for making a substantial impact on the environ­
ment and the economy." The University of Utah, for exam­
ple, has approximately 25,000 people on campus at any 
given time . 

• DUKE UN!VERSlTY 
New campaign phase launched 
DURHAM, N.C. 
After two years of discrete collection punctuated by striking donations from big names on the Duke alumni roster, it's official: the university has launched the five­year public phase of its $1.5-billion capital campaign with pomp, circumstance and a hefty amount of honesty about Duke's financial straits. Sized to surpass any previ­ous campaign in the South and rival those nationwide, the fundraiser has already amassed $684 million. Those funds, explained steering eommittee co-chair Ginny Nicholas, Women's College '64, came from obvious donors -people who have supported the University in the past or have been active alumni since graduating. For instance, all members of the Board of Trustees and tlw Campaign Steering Committee have contributed. Now, the University will take the Campaign for Duke to major cities where a 90-member staff will seout out less-obvi­ous donors. 
• RUTGERS UN!VlRSlTY 
Police bust party, suspect prostitution 
NEW BH.UNSWJCK, N.J. 
Four New Brunswick residents -inducting at least onn university student -and two guests were arrested early Sunday morning in connection with a party where polien allege prostitution services were made available and alcohol was sold illegally. Police charged Gregory Wilson .Jr., 29. with promoting prostitution and maintaining a nuisance. Wilson's roommates -Obinna Linton, 23, Hutgers Coll!~g~~ senior Ryan Brown, 22, and Bryan Kahn, 19 -were charged with maintaining a nuisance and illegal sales of aleohol. Wilson was released on $2,500 bail, and Linton and Brown were released on their own reeognizancn. Polic1~ also charged Tiffany Rhodes, 23, and Aqueelah Howard, 21, both of Trenton, with prostitution. Hhodes was given an addition­al charge of possession of marijuana under 50 grams. Lt. Les Levine of the New Brunswick Police Departnwnt said police staked out the home after receiving fliers for a pay-at­the-door party with lap dancing. 
• SOUTH BEND V'VEAHlER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

AccuWeather~ forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
H  L  
Wednesda~  66 48  
Thursday  ~  56 43  
Friday  ~  63 44  
Saturday  ~  67 46  
Sunday  ~  65 45  

~QQqqQ i:) ~ u
'' ''' '''' '. ·:.·· ·:·.:::·.::=· --­
Showers T·storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
V1a Assoctated Press Graph1csNel 
• NATIONAL WEATHER 

The Accu-Weather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, October 7  
Anchorage_ 44 28 Cleveland 72 54 Mrami 91 Atlanta 78 68 Dallas 80 51 New York 65 Baltimore 71 49 Denver 74 44 Phoenix 92 Boise 73 43 Fargo 58 36 St. Louis 67 Chicago 64 45 Gary 66 49 Topeka 66  78 55 66 50 37  






Personal safety precautions taken on campuses 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE issues, crime does remain low on both campuses, with minor crimes such as bur­News Wrircr glary being the most worrisome problems. 
Notre Dame received two rape reports in 1996, and no rape reports in 1997. Saint I laving hnard the infamous storit!S, Callie Kuhen has madn a decision. Mary's had one rape report in 1996, and no rape reports in 1997. "l rwver walk alone," she said, speaking of the notorious Hape Road, the "That still doesn't mean that these things don't happen," said Chlebek. "They 
dimly lit pathway that links the Notrn Dame and Saint Mary's campus-may happen off-campus or be reported to local and state police. es logetlwr. "Unreporting is always a problem," said Hakow. "We never "Tiw lirst wneknnd I was here, that was all I heard about," turn down a report, but there may be a lot of reasons that a 
By LISA MAXBAUER 
Woml'n·~ Nl'W\ Fdiror 
Tht> slalistirs arP daunting. OnP out of six wonwn an• rapt•d in rollngP. 
II is statistics likP llwst• !.hal. cornpl'l stu­dt>nls lo mar-rh through Notn~ Damn and Saini Mary's campusPs this w<~nkPrHI in lilt' intPn•sl of communal ronrnrn. 
ThP joint-campus organization, Campus AllianrP for Hapn l·:limination, or CAB I:. is holding thPir annual "TakP Back llu· Night" walk this Sunday. l.ori CundiPr, CAHI·:·s Saini Mary's prPsidPnt. dnsrrilws lilt' PVPn! as "a dPmonstration to promotP awan•ru•ss of sPxual assault and to prn­VPnt rapt>." 
:\Ithough ronflirls of snxual assault on rampus arP ran\ <;undlt•r lwliPvns it is "a hig Pnough problt•rn that W<! rw<~d to lake notin·." 
.lanws SchuyiPr, prnsidPnt of CAHE at Notn· l>anw, also agn~ns that thn issun of rapP rwnds to lw brought to attention morn on campus. "Thnrn am dt~linitn safPty COIH'Prns," Schuyler said, "espe­cially in tlw areas down by the lakes hPrausP tlwy an~ so dosn to thn highway." 
Tlw group dons not want students to possnss a falsP snns<~ of snrurity on earn­pus. 

0t t t t t 
sir<' said. "It's a scary road in the dark and with the ceme­
tery. it's not smart to walk there alonn," Kuhen said. "I always takn thn shuttle or have the guy that I'm dating walk me hack." 
While Kuhen's dndsion may be safety-conscious, tlw Saint Mary's and Notre Dame Security IlPpartnwnts fi~ar otherwise. sharing a belief that students do not do all that thny can to Pnsun~ saldy while on campus. 
"It's very dil'ficult to get a young pnrson to lak<' safety snriously," said Dick ChlebPk, director of Serurily at Saint Mary's. "Students have tlw attitude, 'It can't happen to me,' and don't think they rwml to tako advantage ol'the snrvie1~s that we oll'er tlwm." 
Hex Hakow. dir<~ctor of Security and Police at Notrn Dame, nchoed tlw same opinion. 
"I think WI' have a fnl'ling that this is a gnn­Prallv safe Pnvironnwnt," hn said. "Studnnts have· tlw idea that they arn safe under tlw shad­ow of tlw goldPn donw and 'nothing can happen to nw.' People let their guard down," hn said. 
Both s<wurity dnpartnwnts emphasize the impor­tance of using the t~scort serviet~ offered on both carrrpusPs, hownvnr. and shan~ a concorn of how oftnn it is used. 
"When we do have a rarn occasion wlwn an unfortunate 
incident happens. we'll see escort requnsts skyrocket," said 
ble," said Gundler. 
shown here. 
CARE's mission on campus is to educate students on how to prevent sexual assault. Gundler defines the boundaries of sexual assault as "any unwanted sexual eontaet from harass­ment to rape." 
CARE presently consists of ten active members. three of whom are male. They are most visible on campus through their rnpeated performance of "A Kiss is Not Just a Kiss." This skit about date rape is an important facet of the freshman orien­tation sehedule at Saint Mary's. It is also performed in various dorms on Notre Dame campus throughout the school year. 

Rape Facts & Fiction 
Myth: Rape is a crime of passion. 
Fact: Rape is about violence, not passion. It attempts to hurt and humiliate, using sex as the weapon. 
Myth: Rape only happens to women who ask for it. 
Fact: No one asks to be a victim of rape. Rapists often prey on women who seem vulnerable or easily intimidated. 
Myth: Rape is usually a "spur of the moment" act in a dark alley by a stranger. 
Fact: Rapes commonly occur in one's home. Often the rapist knows the victim and has carefully planned the rape. 
Myth: Most rapists only rape once. 
Fact: Most rapists rape again, and again, until they are caught. 
Source: National Crime Prevention Council 
Schuyler explained that brother and sister dorms often combine during these presentations, which culminate with a question and answer session. Schuyler feels it is important to raise these issues "before a mixed crowd." 
Although women can be the o!Tenders of sexual assault, the vast majority are male. For this reason, CARE makes a conscious efl'ort to reach the male audi­ence. 
"We want to make men aware of their own behavior because they are the ones who can stop rape," Gundler said. 
CARE also communicates messages of 
victim doesn't want to make a report. It's victim-drivnn here; whatever the victim wants to do to procned is their decision." "Confidentiality is also maintained in any crime report," said Chlcbek. 
Low crime rates on the campuses an~ due mainly in fact to security featur<~s: ol'ficers patrolling on both campuses, 21 emergency lights on Notre Dame and Saint Mary's in 
dimly lit areas, II enwrgency phones on Saint Mary's campus, and crime prevention pro­grams. 
"We rnalize that students arn busy. but we would lovn to see studnnts take advantage of these programs," said Bakow. 
Onn such program, run through the Notre Dame security department, tmtdws women to recognize and eopn, through snlf'-ddense 
tactics. in situations that may bP dangerous. 
The Hape Aggression Defense Program (HAD) is run periodically throughout the year by the department, but according to Hakow, regis­
tration has been struggling. 
"It's a twelve hour course, and if we can get even six students, we can broak up that twelve hours how­ever they want," he said. "It's only opnn to wonwn. Wn want women to be able to praeticn the skills and ask the 
questions without being intimidated." 
safety and prevention to their studenl'i. 
"People don't think it will happ<m to them," said Gundler. "We encourage peo­ple to be careful and to watch out for their friends." 
The group thinks it is a shame that stu­dents have to be seared and particularly cautious, but feel that it is important for their own safety. 
CARE also address the efl'ects of alcohol on sexual assault. As part of the college social scene, alcohol greatly increases the incidence of date rape. 
see RAPE I page 4 

Hakow. "When tlw eoneern dies down, the requests will go back Interested women may call Detective Tullos in the sncurity down, too." department for registration information. Hakow also strnsses that 
While Saint Mary's reported an increase of 1,470 in escort requests in safety practices do extend beyond the college campuses. 1997, Chlcbek did note that not all requests were safety-concerned. "If we monitor "We are a part of the educational process here," he said. "There is life beyond thn weather, we'll notice a signifieant inf1ux in requests when it starts to get bad," Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Students need to be more aware . and we want them hn said. to think about what they are going to face when they leave here." 
While both departments share a desire for more student awareness on safety 

page 4 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, October 7, 1998 
ly." needs to be continued on vari­impede them from moving up through service hours. Outlaw believes the rate of ous levels, one of which the ladder," said Outlaw. "We must force our stu­

Action 
retention of African American Outlaw believes to be mandat­
One way in which this is dents to move outside the continued from page 1 students speaks more to the ing diversity training through being done is through the boxes," said Outlaw. 
institution than the practice of the Freshman Year of Studies Learning To Talk About Race Often subconsciously, faculty 
Flemming. affirmative action retreat. 
and students on campus ask 
Outlaw also addressed the itself. "We must make the African American students to 
overall environment on cain­pus by saying that students of African American descent often do not feel welcome in their classes and residence dorms. 
Financial aid also becomes a factor in African American students' ability to remain at the University. 
"It is hard for families to make the parental contribu­tion, which often necessitates the student to get a part time job off-campus in addition to the work-study provided by the University," said Outlaw. "This makes it hard for any student to do well academical-

Rape 
continued from page 3 
"Alcohol makes rape an even more touchy issue," Gundler said. "But alcohol doesn't make the rapist less responsi­ble, or the victim more respon­sible for her actions." 
Gundler became involved in rape prevention during activi­ties night freshman year. 
"It was always something I felt strongly about," she said. "Rape is one of the worst things that can happen to a woman. It doesn't leave you, and you have to live with it the rest of your life." 
Students participating in the 
Clinton will propose plan to help Everglades 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The Clinton administration will propose an $8 billion res­cue plan for the Florida Everglades next week aimed at restoring the fragile ecosystem over the next two decades. Florida would pay half the cost. 
The plan, crafted by the Army Corps of Engineers, will be reviewed in a series of pub­lic hearings, with the adminis­tration expected to present it to Congress next summer, officials said Tuesday. 
While piecemeal efforts to revitalize the Everglades have been under way for years, the long-range recovery plan rep­resents the most ambitious attempt yet to rescue one of America's ecological wonders. 
"Nothing on this scale has ever been attempted," said Ron Tipton, the World Wildlife Fund's senior program manag­er for Everglades recovery. 
Ironically, the long-term recovery plan is being proposAd at a time when Congress has slashed administration requests for the Corps' Everglades restoration pro­gram. House and Senate nego­tiators last week agreed to pro­vide only $36 million of the $81 million for Everglades restora­tion-related construction pro­grams for the 1999 fiscal year. Congress also rejected $58 mil­lion the Interior Department wanted in new Everglades­related land purchases. 
Under the 20-year plan, say government officials and envi­ronmentalists who have seen the outline, engineers would restore the natural flow of water across tens of thousands of square miles of South Florida. It calls for tearing down levies, filling in canals, developing ways to store water 
"When a student's , 
experience is finished 'WHEN A STUDENTS EXPERIENCE IS F1N­here, he or she should ISHED HERE HE OR SHE SHOULD HAVE have more positive ' things than negative MORE POSITIVE THINGS THAN NEGATIVE THINGS 
things to say about TO SAY ABOUT IT.' 
it," she said. 
For 1996, the con­tinuation rate into the second year of studies for African Americans was only four points behind that of the white student, with the num­bers being 93.8 percent and 
97.8 percent respectively, according to the 1998 Fact Book. 
While this is improving, it 
"Take Back the Night" demon­stration will gather at the Field House Mall at Notre Dame this Sunday and proceed walking through both campus­es. The march ends at Dalloway's Coffee House on Saint Mary's campus where two campus bands, Hotel Prati and Who's Yo Daddy, will per­form. 
A three dollar donation will be required of students who do not participate in the walk, but who would like to attend the Dalloway's event. The money raised Sunday will allow CARE to bring sexual assault speak­ers to campus. 
CARE is also planning a Sexual Assault Awareness Week for the Spring semester. 
both in a system of reservoirs an8 by pumping it deep beneath the earth into natural aquifers, and expanding pollu­tion control efforts. 
More than a half century of building levies and canals and other barriers to water flow have severely damaged the Everglades ecosystem. About half of South Florida's wetlands have been drained for agricul­ture and urban use. 
The area covers more than 18,000 square miles from the northern edge of the Kissimmee River drainage near Orlando to Florida Bay along the Keys. 

IRIS OUTLAW DIRECTOR OF THE OFFICE OF MULT/CULTURAL STUDENT AFFAIRS 
Program. them to recognize that there "If we don't teach students are students in the Notre to interact with each other, we Dame community who were are doing them a great disser­once in the same position of vice. When they get out into those who the average student the workplace, this will devotes time to helping 



BIOSPHERE 2: SEMESTER ''ABROAD'' 
Spring 1999, Fall1999 & Spring 2000 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING: 
Wednesday, October 7th 
5:00 pm, 138 DeBartolo 
Learn about the newest ND semester "abroad" program: Earth Studies semester at Biosphere 2 in Oracle, Arizona (offered in partnership with Columbia University). Unlike any other program offered to ND students!! 



LEWIS HALL 
3rd Annual 

Friday, Oct. 9th 5:00-7:00 PM at the Lewis Sand Volleyball Court 
Live entertainment! Foodl Prizesl 
Teams of 5 (coed is okay) $5 registration fee per team--sign up there! 
All proceeds benefit Camp Albrecht Acres 
students move out­side their comfort zones to impact lives," Outlaw said. 
Outlaw believes the quality of students at Notre Dame is excep­tional, demonstrated through the high rate of volunteerism evi­dent in the communi­ty. 
Yet she challenges speak for their entire race. 
"Other students are not asked to do this and neither should African American ones," said Outlaw. Outlaw believes this becomes an issue of being aware of those differ­ent themselves. 



........ 
. . 


'"~~..; n 
.ation 
Wednesday, Ocroher 7, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 

AMEX:

0 ow 593.09 }ONES -o. 12 Nasdaq:+16.74 1510.89 
-25.80 
NYSE: 491.51 -0.93 
S&P 500: 

~ Composite

984.59 Volume: 

-3.97 843,710,000 VOLUME LEADERS 
7,742.98 
CCMI!Abl): II!.:IHH ·~~ CliA~~E u::t~ats~E I!BICE 
• 
Democrats defend Clinton, counter impeachment plans 
W/\SIIINCTON 

With a lloust• volt~ sf'l l'or Thursday on 
latlllt'hing an opPn-t·ndPd impnachnH~nt 
inquiry. llt•mot'l'ats rushPd l.o counl.nr 
l{ppubliran plans whiiP still undPrscoring 
thPir disappmval o!' l'rPsidPnt Clinton's a!'!'air 
with Monira l.t•winsky. 
!\ t. tllf• Whit" II ous" . s p o k n s man Joe 
l.orkhart ilf'('USnd IIH' c;op leadership or using 
lllf• inqlf'achnwnt issun "to Prnharrass tlw 
prt•sidt•nt" and produrn political gain l'or 
l!Ppuhlirans at tlw polls this !'all. 
Majority I.PadPr llirk /\rnH'Y· IH-Tnxas), 
said tlw issut• would com!' to tlw lloor !'or a 
volt• on Thursday. HPpubliran ol'l'irials 
t•xpn•sst•d ronlidf'IH'f' tlwy would pnwail. thus 
making Clinton tlw third pn~sidnnt in history 
to l'art· possihlf' impPat·hnwnt pnH·.eedings. 
lnvestigation into downed 
lsraeli cargo jet continues 
1\MSTl.:HD/\M, Nntherlands 

In tlw shadow ol' towering apartment build­
ings, a living monunwnt to victims of the 
worst. Dutch air disaster bears this inscrip­
tion: "Tlw TrPn That Saw Evnrything." 
Six yPars latPr, invnstigators are struggling 
to uncovnr what no onP can snn -the cause 
or rhronic illiH1SSeS that havn plagund the 
Iwighborhood and its rnsctwrs since the crash 
ol' an lsnwli cargo jet. 
Nnw disdosures the plane was carrying a 
dwmical that can bB used to producn the 
dPadly IWrVP gas sarin havn reignitnd 
dPmands l'or tlw truth-and rnnewed specu­
lation owr what tlw lsradis int1mdnd to do 
with llw nHLlPrial. 
"Ont'f' and !'or all. WI~ must put an end to 
tlw disastPr. Tlw suiTering has lastml too 
long," llannah Bnlliot, who !wads the nnigh­
horlwod rounril, said Sunday in a memorial 
sPrvirf' nPar t.n•Ps that survivml tlw inferno. 
Archdiocese of Cincinnati ministers to parents of gays 
C:INC:lNN/\Tl 

Till' !loman Cat.holir /\rchdiocnsn of 
<:inrinnati is inviting the pan•nts of gay chil­
dn·n to at.tPnd nlf•f'l.ings on t.lw church's Pvolv­
ing stand on homosnxuality, which holds that 
gays dPsPrVP at'f'f'Jllanw tWI'Il though gay sox 
is ronsit!PrPd immoral. 
Auxiliary Bishop Carl Monddnl plannnd 
lllf'Plings in thrPn rit.ins bnginning Tunsday to 
disrttss "/\!ways Our Childrnn," a pastoral ld­
lt•r lw lwltwd issw• last !'all as a mPmbnr of 
tht• National Coni'Prnncn o!' Catholic Bishops' 
mtJJmittPI' 011 marriagn a11d l'amily. 
Tlw lPttPr, dirPrtnd at pastoral ministnrs 
a11d part•nt.s, says gays arn still children of c;od. dt•Sf'J'V(' accPplaJJcn within thn chureh a11d should lw t'JH'ouragt•d to livn chastn lives. 
l.thikftlltt&llt'WM 
• WEST BANK 


Palestinian Authority Leader Yasser Arafat listens to a translation of U.S. Secretary of State Madeleine Albright's comments yesterday in Jericho. Arafat, Albright and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu will meet today for further peace talks. 

Peace talks begin today in Jericho 
ASSOCIATED PHESS 
A trilateral meeting between Benjamin Netanyahu, Yasser Arafat and Madeleine Albright aimed at goading the recently revived Mideast peace talks forward will take place Wednesday. 
/\!bright mnt with Palestinian leadnr Aral'at. in the Palestinian-run city of Jericho in the West Bank and held two meetings with Israeli Prime Ministnr Netanyahu in Jerusalem. 
Netanyahu's ollice said that a three­way meeting would takn place Wnchwsday morning at the Erez bor­dl1r crossing between Israel and the Gaza Strip. 
"We're standing at thn possibility of completing a political process with agreements that were di!Tieult from our point o!' vinw, we know that," Nntunyahu later told mnmbors of his Likud party. 
"But along with that, we said that wn'll respect. them on the basis of two principles: One is guaranteeing securi­ty and thn second is achieving reci­procity." 

The trilateral talks were to be aimed at overcoming deadlocks on lower­level bureaucratic levels, but also were to address more substantive issues: The Palestinians complain that they have yet to see the Israeli maps detail­ing a further Israeli troop withdrawal from the West Bank; the Israelis want to know details of Palestinian pledges to contain Islamic militant groups. 
Wednesday's meeting would take place early enough for Arafat to be able to make a planned trip t.o Moscow. 
Albright met with both leaders as part of her efforts to bring the sides closer to eompleting a deal for a long overdue Israeli troop withdrawal. If /\!bright succeeds in bridging remain­ing gaps over a U.S. peace initiative, the two Mideast leaders would likely sign a deal in Washington later this month. 
A Palestinian official, speaking anonymously, said Albright and Arafat discussed "generalities. n 
Speaking after the Jericho meeting, Albright told reporters that there wern "tough choices that both sides have to inake," before the Washington summit seheduled for October 15-18. 
"We reviewed in a comprehensive way all the issues of the American ini­tiative which (Arafat) has aecepted in principle. Our ehallenge now is t.o move forward and to try to reach an agreement," she said. 
/\rafat said he hoped the secretary's visit would be one morn stnp toward the settling of all remaining issuns between Israel and the Palnstinians. 
Time is running out bntwnnn t.hn sides to resolve a host o!' disputns such as the status of Jerusalmn, which both peoples claim as their eapital, Jnwish settlmnnnts and pnrm;mnnt bordnrs. 
Thn current pnace accords nxpirn in May 1999, when the Palestinians had hoped to dnclarn indnpendnnen. Netanyahu opposns Palnstinian statn­hood and tlw two sidns havn benn hag­gling for 18 months ovnr a l'urtht~l' Israeli troop rndnploynwnt from Wnst Bank areas, out.linnd in a previous accord. 
AssociATED PREss 
BELGRADE, Yugoslavia 
Moving closer to NATO airstrikes, the United States told Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic on Tuesday that he has failed to show the West he really means to end his harsh crackdown in Kosovo province. 
U.S. envoy Richard Holbrooke met Milosevic for the second day Tuesday after visiting tho southern Serbian province, where Yugoslav forces were bat­tling ethnic Albanian rebels seeking indepen­dence. 
In Washington, President Clinton said Holbrooke was tellittg the Yugoslav leader' that NATO is prepared to act if Milosevic fails to honor U.N. resolutions ordering him to withdraw ft•om areas of' conflict and allow a political settlertH.lnt. 

He warned that; unchecked, Serb violence in the province could lead to instability throughout the region. 
"The stakes are high," Clinton said. ''The time is now to end the violence in Kosovo." 
After meeting with etlmic Albanian political leaders in Kosovo, Holbrooke said Serbian security forces still maintahi a strong pres­ence. 
" U . S . d i p 1 o m a tl~ observers are doing a ter­rificjob bringittgus infor" 
mation, and the informa­tion they're bringing is not good," Holbrooke said. 
Milosevic's seven-month crackdown against the secessionists has killed hundreds, left tens of thou­sands of ethnic Albanians homeless and led to grow­ing resolve among NATO allies to stop the bloodshed by striking Yugoslav army targets ifnecessary. 
Kosovo is a province of Serbia, the main republic of Yugoslavia. But ethnic Albanians form 90 percent of the 2 million-strong Kosovo population, and most favor self-rule. 
Hours after Holbrooke left Kosovo for Belgrade, reporters saw about 100 Yugoslav military vehicles 
of all sorts -ranging from armored personnPI carri­ers to trueks loaded with troops -moving outside Kosovo in an appal"l~nt show of Milosevic's compli­ance with international demands. 
Additionally, state-run Serbian TV claimed that all Serbian special police units were pulled out of the province a key interna­tional demand. 
Defense S(~aetary William Cohen told Congress a pullback of troops in Kosovo by Milosevie was not enough to ward off NATO attacks. Airstrikes might be fol­lowed by some "interna­tional presence" on the ground, he said. 

NATO prepared to strike in Kosovo 
L>FI.I COMPLIII·I~  IJEI.l  ··Ill  -2.:~7~  55 ..1125  
CIS<. ( 1 SY~ TFM~ "11\1'1 ES INC  csco Sl't.~  -4.-lll +2.H2  ·2.125 t-.75  -lfliH75 27.:l75  
lllMI'AV u JMI't' r1-1~ IN IF! { (lJ(J' Mlt'IH"N.Wil'{)[{l' VIR\It\':->~WTWAIU )t\lhiOINl' I!{AVII FR.~ CRUUI' t.;pLJI-( (':->&l'!:iUO)  ti'Q INIC MSFr VJH<;. )l!()l) IHV SPY  --151 -I. IIi -152 -·\2.2!.) .IJ.H!I tuKh ·0.111  -1.25 -.9:175 -.1.5tl2..'i -\\} 1~75 -10 lllll"h ·lN~M  2ti.!i 7lJ.Ill5 117 625 ~o.lH75 124.HIJ .1-1.5 lJH.!i9JH  


page 6 
SMC 
continued from page 1 
Holy Cross, through challeng­ing and uncertain times in many decades ... the sisters have not only stood by the col­lege, but have played leader­ship roles in so many ways." 
She also emphasized the importance of the student body. 
"It is the students who are the focal point of all that we do. We may describe the facul­ty as the 'heart of the college.' but we are all aware that if we 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
Wednesday, October 7, 1998 

ause 

continued from page 1 
fessor of law. 
But there is more to the issue than the fear of lawsuits. The clause would offer homo­sexuals a form of palpable legal protection, something that does not currently exist against discrimination at Notre Dame. 
"There is no real protection [in the Spirit of Inclusion] for the kinds of discrimination we're talking about here," said Maura Ryan, an assistant professor of theology who sat on the ad hoc committee on 
Prof gets manufacturing text published 
Special to The Observer 
The fifth edition of "Operations Management: Strategy and Analysis," a text­book coauthored by Lee Krajerski, William and F. Cassie Daley Professor of Manufacturing Strategy at Notre Dame hs been published by Addison Wesley Longman. 
Called the "best book avail­able in opertions manage­ment," the latest edition of the text includes new information on technology management 
,'AJtm~rJ¥~9~!~~r· 
For ticket information contact the Saint Mary's College Box Office at 
284-4626 






Third Wish 
This Thursday Night 8:00pm at Dalloway's 
'~ hip, soul-shaking, free-spirited, rock-and-rolljoyride" 
Free Pizza 
Sponsored by Student Activities Board 
gay and lesbian student needs which recommended the addi­tion in 1996. "There's none for gay and lesbian faculty members, and that ultimately hurts the efforts of inclusion at Notre Dame. 
"The real question is how are you going to protect some of the most vulnerable mem­bers of the community," she continued. 
Other faculty members noted that an individual's sex­ual orientation should have little bearing on their ability to function as a member of a university. 
"Personally, I think deci­sions about education should be about one's innate ability 
(OM) software on the market and more thn 75 Internet activities. 
"The fifth edition reflects our philosophy that OM texts should address both the strategic importance and the analytic tools of operations mnagement," Krajewski said. "Strategic and managerial issues have been woven into the fabric of each chapter to emphasize tht decisions made by operations managers in each ,aspect should be consis­tent with a corporate strategy 
Thursday-Saturday October 8 -10 at 8 p.m. Sunday, October 11 at 2:30p.m. Little Theatre 


Mgfjfii;)
I c~THEARTS 
~NOTRE DAME, IN 

to succeed, or in hiring, to perform," said Fick. "Things like [sexual orientation] are extraneous to that goal. The key should be focusing on what's relevant to ensure suc­cess." 
Blakey agreed, noting that for most positions at a univer­sitv, an individual's sexual pn-;ference has a negligible influence on their job perfor­mance. 
"I have a hard time seeing your personal sexual orienta­tion having an impact if, for example you're a groundskeeper," he said. "If you want to teach history, I can't see if that has any influ­ence." 
shared by managers in II func­tional areas." 
Appointed to the Daley chair at Notre Dame in 1995, Krajewski teaches and con­ducts research in manufactur­ing strtegy; the design of mul­tistage manufacturing sys­tems; the effects of environ­mental factors on inventory, productivity and customer ser­vice in mnufacturing systems; and aggregate planning and master production scheduling interfacP,s. 
' 

lrr=======================================~ 
DID YOU FORGET? 
Please Mark Your Calendar 
for the: 
Arts & Letters Career/Job Fair 
October 8th at the Center for Continuing Education 9:30a.m. -4:00p.m. 
Sponsored by: 

OFFICE OF CAREER & PLACEMENT SERVICES 
Full-Time 

Workshops
Employment 

ND/SMC Right To Life Club Presents: 
-•
I

Re~pect Life 
Week 
Hannah's House Baby Shower 
Meet at Library Circle at 7:00pm 

Rosary at the Grotto 
Meet at the Grotto at 1O:OOpm Please join us. All are welcome!!! 
did not have the students, the 'soul' of the college, none of us would be here... " she said. "It is my observation that, while the quality of a Saint Mary's education is what probably brought you here initially, you stay here for many other rea­sons as well ... You are push­ing all of us to make the col­lege more diverse in many good and important ways." 
Eldred complimented the women of Saint Mary's on their spirit and devotion to the College. 
"We are who we are because of the contribution made by every person at the college," Eldred said. "I thank you for who you are and what you do. 

"It is an awesome and hum­bling responsibility to be presi­dent of Saint Mary's College. But as long as we remember we are women of jubilee, together we will remain con­scious, connected and commit­ted proudly to the present and future of Saint Mary's College." 
To demonstrate their pride in the Saint Mary's Community, the women of Saint Mary's also dressed in navy and white, the College's colors, and many signed a banner to commemo­rate the celebration, writing why they loved the College. 

~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~ 
Profs bring play to classroom 
Arnold: scandal 

By EMILY McCORMICK 
Nrws Writer 
Thomas Bonndl and Kathnrine Sullivan arn not conttmt to have thn play thny've worked on togethnr eonlined to thn stage of ()'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's Collngn. 
Bonnnll. an <L'isoeiatP professor of l~nglish. and Sullivan, an assistant professor of communi­t~ation. dance and theater. hawl brought tlw play "A Secmt LoVtl" by John Drydm1 into the class­room wlwre Saint Mary's stu­dnnts havn bnnn studying it this smnestnr. 
Bncausn tlw play is a love story. many studenl'i artl able to relatn to its univnrsal theme. 
"A Sm-rPt Love" is studied in littlraturtl classns at Saint Mary's in ordnr to help stmltmts become mortl inttlrnstml and abltl to bet­tnr understand tlw play. 
Tlw play. which combines a dramatic and conwdic love story, nwol ves around Clnadon. a hopn lnss woman iztl r. and Florinwll. a flirt who desires to eaptun1 Cleadon's heart. 
"The conwdy is funny, saucy and wild," Sullivan said. Bonrwll strnssed that plays arn not nwant to be read as poetry 
A SPECIAL INVITATION 
and short stories. but as woks that focus on theatrics and dra­matic actions. 
The students not only read and discuss the play in class, but will have the opportunity to experi­ence the drama firsthand and lind out if their personal expec­tations are fulfilled. 
Breeyan Creeby, a Saint Mary's freshman said she has been discussing the play in her 
'THE COMEDY ['A SECRET LOVE') IS 
RJNNY, SAUCY AND WILD.' 
KATIIE!UNE SULLIVAN 
ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF 
COMMUNICATION, DANCE AND 
THEATER 
literature dass. 
"''m looking forward to seeing if the two characters get togeth­er." Cree by said. 
I laving a better understanding of the material once they see the play is also a reason behind incorporating the studying of "A Secret Love" in the classroom at Saint Mary's, said freshman Jenny Kuehn who's class is 
11\.tx&B
//"\. fl • 
~qL.0.@ 

studying the play. "The play 'A Secret Love' is an 
effects far reaching 
Need Cash?? 
'$25.00 Today with this Ad and a student I.D. 
-------------------~ 
Potential of Earning $145.00 per month for 2 to 4 hours per week of your time. You choose your own schedule. 
Plasma Donations Save Lives Come Donate Today!! 
Call 234-60 1 0 and ask for Toni -or stop and see us at 515 Lincolnway West South Bend, IN. 
laughing stock in history," he said. 
While it is a near certainty that Clinton will be remem­bered for this scandal and the media circus surrounding it, there is still some history to be made. How Congress decides to deal with the fiasco is another question that can forever effect the nature of governmental institutions. 
"Clearly, he did lie in judicial settings," said Arnold. "I don't think that one can just let this pass. Clearly you have to find some mechanism to penalize the president." 
Arnold said he does not feel impeachment is the most desir­able route. 
"Do we want to create a precedent which uses a rele­tively low bar of defining an impeachable offense'?" he asked. 
While the constitution only specifically names the crimes of treason. bribery, high crimes and misdemeanors as impeach­able offenses, Arnold pointed out that crimes at law are not necessarily impeachable. But given the power of interpreta­tion Congress enjoys in this al"ea, the definition may be expanded to whatever Congress wants to decide is impeachable. 
Such· flexibility presents insti­tutional problems as far as Arnold is concerned. These include the role of political impulse, or making decisions in the light of upcoming elections. 
Another possibility raised for the president is resignation. Although this option was initial­ly appealing to Arnold, upon further reflection he felt differ· ently. His based his change of heart on the notion that the American people elected the president and, as such, he should not be pressured to resign when the Congress is upset by his actions. 
Further, in light of Clinton's offense, Arnold cautioned against the precedent that would be set by a president resigning at the whim of the public. 
"I don't think it's all that desirable to have him in office for another two years, but there's no better option," Arnold concluded. 
adult play that leaves the audi­ence with things to think about," Bonnell said. By reading the play, she said, students are learning about a different time period and culture. 
Sullivan said she is excited to bring this distinctive period in drama to the Saint Mary's. Her goal is to recreate the world of the Restoration and its joy in the­ater, she said. 
The idea of bringing "A Secret Love" to Saint Mary's began last spring, when Bonnell adapted "A Secret Love" for the Saint Mary's stage. The adaptation has helped to make the play. which was written more then 300 years ago clearer to the audience. 
He removed many of the words and phrases that are no longer used in the 20th century English language and replaced them with words that the audi­ence could better understand, Bonnell said. The adaptation contains none of the modern slang used today. 
The play is still 85 percent pure Dryden, so it retains its 17th century composition, Bonnell said. 
Sullivan and Bonnell have made a joint effort to accurately 
recreate the time and feeling of 
the English Restoration. 
To prepare for this difficult 
undertaking, Sullivan attended 
a lecture series on Restoration 
and 18th century literature. 
Bonnell has become the assis­
tant director and is learning 
how to create successful pro­
duction. 

The play is composed of twen­
ty five performers who are 
actors or musicians and 45 stu­
dents backstage. 

The play will be performed 
October 8, 9 and 10 at 8:00p.m. 
and October 11th at 2:30 pm at 
Little Theater in Monroe Center. 
Tickets can be purchased by 
calling 284-4626. 
much about this to be deeply trou~ ........,.,..•" tblnk about;" said 
the topi(( was difficult both because of the l)ru;ieernly' nature of the details JJ"''~.:<u~s~ it is endangering 
l't8.in dec s 
to be associw ated in with the Civil Rights movement. 
"Her.e is someone who has extraordinarily squandered this most rare benefit of being pres­ident,"said Arnold. 
Unlike Johnson and HamiltmJ; Clinton has under· mined the reputation of his office, according to Arnold. 
''He has made himself a 
·-­

--. ~ ---~-------­
page 8 TiiHJb"slrve? "''PAID-ADVERTISEMENT· Wednesday, October 7, 1998 

PA_JO_AD_VE_RT_IS_EM_EN_T-----~page 9 
Wall Street Forum Your opportunity to learn more about: •Merrill Lynch •Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co. •Bank ofAmerica •Salomon Smith Barney •Cigna •BTAlex Brown •Goldman Sachs •Robert W. Baird •Summit Partners Venture Capital •Credit Suisse First Boston All Students Welcome! For more information call: Professor John Affleck-Graves at 631-6370  

' ... 
' 
... '.' .. '' 

page 10 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, October 7, 1998 
• MULTICULTURAL BEAT 
Gender, race pose challenges 
By TIMOTHY COLLINS News Writer 
African-American women continue to face challenges at Notre Dame and beyond that no one else is exposed to, according to Iris Outlaw, direc­tor of Multicultural Student Affairs. 
The first African-American women to attend the University faced a harsh adjustment. Not only were they the first women to attend Notre Dame, but they were the first women of color also. African-American men have been allowed to attend Notre Dame since 1943. 
Only 30 African-Americans were present on campus at the time women joined the cam­pus, so a close-knit community developed from the beginning. 
The University tried to make adjustments to the women's needs, but they were not ade­quate. They had to lay out for 

the administration what they needed. 
"People assume what women need. Women have to tell them whether or not this is ade­quate," Outlaw said. 
Women are still hired and are sometimes seen to fill a certain "yes" position, accord­ing to Outlaw. This means they are expected not to stand up for what they believe in, but to give into the patriarchal soci­ety system. 
"It was the same as the Civil Rights movement," Outlaw said. "Who would take the women's voices seriously?" 
Outlaw said she still recog­nizes the difficulties and obsta-, cles African-American women face. 
"The challenges placed before us will not be as easily taken care of as those placed before women of other races," Outlaw said. 
By remaining committed to their issues and beliefs they will gain the respect they deserve, she said. 
"Women can carry as much clout as any man, or even more," she said. 
Outlaw also addressed the double standards that women have received in comparison to men. 
"Why is it that when women are in positions of power they are being assertive and aggres­sive, while men in the same positions are seen as being ambitious?" said Outlaw. 
She called for a change in mindsets and a willingness to take a risk to bring about change. 
Since Outlaw arrived at the University in 1991, she has focused on creating programs and generating ideas to help African-American women with challenges they face. 
But there is still a long way to go, and a need to "redefine the rules," she said. 
Have some­thing to say?·· Use · The Observ;er classifieds. 

L'lll.•.'-...'-'1:.1Lt..._._...t.9.t..'-'9...•-•-•·•-•~.._'t.........'lll! ._.._, •.• ._..,_.,... 
~---------------------------------------------------------------­

'''I'''''' t' 
Wednesday, October 7, 1998 The Observer • NEWS page II 
----------------------------------~~~~~~~~~~----------------------------------------------~~-­
Colleges making SAT, ACT scores optional 
Assnl'iatcd l,rcss or FairTest. 
BOSTON 

MorP and morn collngns arn making Si\T and i\CT scorns optional l'or admission, accord­ing to a r•'IHlrt to lw ndnased WPdrwsday. 
More• than 2XO ram pus•~s now admit. sonw or all of tiH'ir appli­...ants without n~gard to tlw tnsts. i\nd many ol' them say tho sys­IPm has improwd tlw ;t('.adnmic quality -and tlw divnrsity -of tlwir studnnts, said the CamhridgP-basnd National C••ntnr for Fair & Opnn Testing, 
The hulk of tho nation's I.(J(lO schools still us•~ thP scores to dntnrrnirw which stud•~nts will be accepted. But tho report shows collogos can prosp•~r with­out rnlying on the ubiquitous nntrancn nxams. said Charlns Hoorwy, tho lnad author of' the study. 
Critics say the Scholastic Assessment. Test or i\mnrican Collngn Tnsting oxam dons not adnquatnly mnasure a studnnt's intnllignnen or ability to perform in thn classroom, and is biasod against minorities. 
TUESDAY OCTOBER 13t 1999 
7:30P.M. 
MOREAU CENTER­LITTLE THEATRE 
IRISH FOLK SINGER 
;tglHih)
I c~ THEA~TS 
~NOTAl!' D.IMa, IN 
• RUSSIA 

Nation prepares for protests 
Associated Press 

MOSCOW 
Overdue wages. Soaring inflation. Lost jobs. Hussians have endured. a bitter economic crisis wilh few public outbursts, but hundreds of thousands, if not millions. are expected to march in nalionwide demonstrations Wednesday in what's forecast to be one of' the largest protests dur· ing President Boris Yeltsin's tenure. 
A broad band of' govern­ment critics-, led by trade unions and the Communist Party, have spent months organizing hundreds of protests in cities, towns and factories across the coun· try. • 
One of the most striking aspects of the Hussian cri· sis. which hit in mid· August, has been the muted public response. Many Hussians are deeply disillu· sioned with the govern­ment's inability to halt the country's economic slide, but they have concentrated on personal survival. 
Protest organizers have sought to turn the private frustrations into public ral­lies that could draw as many as 40 million people around the country, accord­ing to Communist Party l(Jader Gennady Zyuganov. Hussian labor unions say up to 28 million people will take part in the strikes and rallies. 
However, many observers predict the one-day demon­stration will more likely resemble a similar protest on March 27, 1997, when police said more than 1.R million people rallied nationwide. 
The Communists and the trade unions have had some difficulty coordinating their aims, and this has partially muddied their message. 
The unions want to focus on basic economic issues in a country where the econo· my has been contracting for a decade and is expectod to shrink more than 5 per·cent this year. Millions of work· ers get paid months late, and intlation ht\s skyroeket­ed more than 60 pBreont since the crisis began. 
"The problems of debts. (unpaid). wages and jobs appeared not today and not on Aug. 17," said Mikhail Shmakov. leader of the Federation of Independent Trade Unions. "It has been gradually developing in the country during the past. few years." 

The Communists, mean­while, have heen calling for Yeltsin's resignation and see tho protests as a way to further weaken the presi­dent, who still has two years loft in his torm. But the Communists find them­selves in a bit of an awk· ward position beeause sev­eral of their members are playing key roles in the new government of' Prime Minister Yevgeny Primakov. 
To further complicate the matter, tho union load()rs have said thny not only want Yeltsin to step down, they also want to see the dissolution of pMiiamerrt. where Communists make up the largest faction. 
Other Yeltsin opponents are also soizing the oppor­tunity to advance their own goals. Alexander Lehod. governor or tho vas! Krasnoyarsk provinee ill Central Siberia and n likely presidential eontender, said Tuesday that Yeltsin's res­ignation is ''inevitable." thn Interfax nnws agency reported. " 

ill) 
ATH • ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING • MECHANICAl ENGINEERING• BUSINESS ANALYSI 
When something is too extreme for words, it's to the Nth degree. And that's the level of technology you'll experience at Raytheon. 
Raytheon has formed a new technological superpower-Raytheon Systems Company, composed of four major technological giants: Raytheon Electronic Systems, Raytheon E-Systems, Raytheon Tl Sy~ems and Hughes Aircraft. The new Raytheon Systems Company is driving technology to the limit. And we're looking for engineers who want to push the envelope. Break new ground. Make their mark. 
At Raytheon, you'll toke technology-and your career-to the highest possible level. You'll toke it to the Nth. We'll be visiting your campus soon. Contact your career placement office now to schedule an interview, or check out our website at www.royjobs.com. If you are unable to meet with us, please send your resume to: Raytheon Resume Processing Center, P.O. Box 660246, MS·201, Dallas, TX 75266. We have many exciting opportunities available and we would like to talk to you. 

-

VIEWPOINT 
page 12 
THE OBSERVER 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Reinthaler Kyle Carlin 

AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Heather MacKenzie 
NEWS EDITOR .. . ........• Michelle Krupa ADVERTISING MANAGER .............. Kerry McPartlin VIEWPOINT EDITOR ........ Eduardo Llull AD DESIGN MANAGER .... Bren Huelat SPORTS EDITOR ..................... Kathleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER .................... Michael Brouillet SCENE EDITORS...............•........... Sarah Dylag CONTROLLER... .....................Dave Rogero 
Kristi Klirsch WEB ADMINISTRATOR ....... Jennifer Breslow SAINT MARY's EDITOR .....M. Shannon Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR ............................... Pete Cilella PHOTO EDITOR ........................ Kevin Dalum 
The Observer is dtc independem newspaper published by the students of the Universiry ofNmre Oame duLac and Saint Mary's College. h does not necCS!oarily reflect the policies of the administration ofeither insrirmion. The news is reponed a.~ accurarely and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Edimr·in-Chief, Managing Editor, A~'inant Managing Editor and dc:panmem editors. Commc:marics,leners and columns present the vtc:ws of the authors, and no£ neces..o;arily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of rhc Notre Dame/S.tint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opiniom through lerrc:rs is encouraged. 
Contacting The Observer Editor-in-Chief 6J 1-4542 Business Office 631-5315 Managing Edicor/Assisram ME 6.31-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Spons 631-4 543 Fax 631-6927 Scene/Saim Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail ViewpoinL I @nd.edu Day Ediror/Viewpoin[ 631-5303 Ad E-Mail ohserver@darwi n .cc. nd.ed u Office Manager/General Informarion 631-7471 News E-Mail observer.obsnews.l @nd.edu 
• Jusr Gor Our OF JAIL, CAliFORNIA DREAMlN' 
os~fRvER ----------------Wednesday, October 7, 1998 

The PSA, Student Senate and the Blind Pursuit of Rights 
The discussion and pursuit of rights in America seems to be flying out of con­trol. Everybody is screaming for their rights, andat the same time forgetting one very important aspect of overall jus­tice, namely responsibility-that is duty to one another. 

Eduardo 
Llull 
When this nation was founded, a newly struetured society began to form. In the aftermath of the Hevolution, a new society driven by a pioneering spirit and a belief in American know-how broke from the old structure of society which came from England. The old structure was vertical, where everyone had their responsibility or duty to a superior. This went from the poorest tradesman all the way up to the king. Gradually America turned this top-down society, based on duty and responsibili­ty, on its side and developed a more hor­izontal society based on rights. 
Thank God for America and the Revolution for breaking from such a sys­tem. Many of our accomplishments as a nation would have been impossible in that old system. However, our society may be based on rights but it is still dependent on duty and responsibility as well. It seems that we are quickly mov­ing toward a society which does away with responsibility whenever possible. 
On the national scene one needs to look no further for an example of this trend than Roe v. Wade. In this decision, not only did the Supreme Court free us from the personal responsibility that comes with having sex, namely caring for a baby, but also from the responsibil­
ity we all have to protect every human 
beings' right to life in all stages of that 
life. But our own personal rights, appar­
ently, supercede any such responsibility. 
Anyway, instead on going off on 
another long treatise about why abor­
tion should be banned, I'd like to apply 
this discussion of rights and responsibili­
ties right here to our Notre Dame com­
munity. The recent wave of student . activism, while encouraging in theory, 
seems to fall into the same trap of blind­
ly pursuing rights. 
This movement on campus has been 
led primarily by the Progressive Student 
Alliance. When I saw this club start to 
form (though unofficially) last year I was 'optimistic about the possibilities of hav­ing such a club on Notre Dame's largely apathetic campus. As the Editor of these Viewpoint pages I was approached by the club about them possibly having a column on a weekly basis. Still excited about this new body of progressive stu­dents I agreed to let them have a column every Tuesday (even though they missed this Tuesday, I'm not happy about that Aaron). However, so far this year I have been somewhat disappointed by their efforts. Instead of advocating progres­sive change in a rational manner, they seem to blindly fight for anyone who screams loud enough about their rights being violated. 
For example, they came to the aid of 
the Women's Resource Center when the 
WRC was just trying to educate women 
on the issue of abortion as they claim, 
but they had information supplying 
prices and directions to abortion clinics. 
This is not acceptable, especially at a 
Catholic university. Furthermore, such 
pamphlets hardly enhance any academ­
ic discussion regarding the issue of 
abortion. But the WRC screamed the 
magic words, which include "rights" and 
"violated," and the PSA came running. 
The non-discrimination clause has 
also been a center of attention for the 
PSA. Once again, they have ignored any 
implications that inclusion of sexuality 

on the clause would entail. That is, they have failed to explore what such an inclusion would mean in the long run to the Catholic character of Notre Dame. They also fail to provide any concrete examples of discrimination under the present non-discrimination clause which would require inclusion of sexuality. Once again, apparently, if you feel that your rights have been violated call on the PSA. They offer their services like unscrupulous attorneys. 
But enough with the PSA. I wouldn't want them to get angry with me and 
B
UTTHEWRC SCREAMED THE MAGIC WORDS, WHICH INCLUDE "RIGHTS" AND "VIOLATED," AND THE PSA CAME RUN­NING. 
stop submitting their weekly column. I honestly do enjoy the influx of letters to the editor after each and every column. 
Instead, let us turn to our Student Senate. Student Senate has followed the PSA's lead this year in exploring the inclusion of sexuality into the non-dis­crimination clause. PSA member and Student Senator Sophie Fortin co-wrote the resolution and presented it to the senate. Her quote was, "It seems like common sense." What it seems like is that people screamed for their rights and it was common sense to the majori­ty of the Student Senate, therefore, to capitulate without intelligently looking at what such an action entails in the long run. The Student Senator from Zahm I I all, Spencer Stefko, best cap­tured what I feel was the actual mind­set of the Student Senate at this meeting when he said, "None of us really know what we're talking about ... we honestly have no clue." 
The Student Senatn also decidml to take up the cause of welcoming Sen. Bradley. Many senators apparently felt that if we didn't it would make us look bad to the nation. But this does not justi­fy their treatment of the largest student organization on campus-Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Hight to Life when they tried to present their objections at the meeting. The club was barely allowed to speak. Club co-president Catriona Wilkin was able to explain their stance in The Observm·, however. She stated, "We don't oppose Bradley's being here, but we would like to see sonw opposition to his voting record on abortion." Sorry Catriona, that could bEl construed as an infringement on the Senator's rights. 
I completely support the efforts made to further justice on our campus, in our nation and in the world. Nothing (:ould be a more nobln pursuit. llowever, when people's rights are pursued blindly with­out regard for truth or dogma; when our sense of duty dies out in this pursuit, then we endanger the very rights we are fighting for. Professor John Finnis, of the University of Oxford and Notre Dame Law School, expresses this connection between rights and duties in his book Natural Law and Natural Rights when he writes, "the common good is precise­ly the good of thn individuals whose ben­efit, from the fullillnwnt of duty by oth­ers, is their right bE~cause required of those others in justice (emphases his)." 
Therefore, in their defense of rights, the PSA, Student Senate and whoever else for that matter need to be more intelligent or tlwy may hurt their own cause. 
Eduardo Llull is a senior history and philosophy major who, due to his major. will probably spend next year hanging out with his good friend Jim instead of working. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer . 

• 000NESBUBY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• O.uon OF THE DAY 
'To have a grievance is to have a purpose in life.' -Eric Hoffer 
VIEWPOINT 
Wcdm:sday, October, 7, I998 os~ERVER page 13 
• ' 00 . -J liFE 
Expertise Belongs Solely to God 
WP snn it in tnlnvision st~rins, movins or on rwws broadcasts: "nxpert" witnnssns tnstifying that sonw fact ol' a casn is or isn't so. Whnn tlw opposing attornny is allowml to cross nxaminn 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~this 
Julie A. 
Ferraro 

"export," tlwrn is usually an altnmpt to discredit 
tlw tt~stimony by proving that tlw witness is not, 
in fact, an nxpnrt in his or her f1nld at all. 
BPing considered an "nxpert" is a dangerous 
thing. l.alwling a human being with that desig­
nation nwans pnople sen this individual as 
"infallibln" in that particular area of skill or 
knowlndge. As we all know, no onn is infallib!P.. 
Thn prnssurn of being an export is enormous. 
Thn fJP!'Son has to watch nvnry action, every 
word spoknn or writtnn on the topic of nxpertise. 
An t~xpnrt pianist has to dna! with tho strnss of 
striking tho wrong kt~y during a sold-out con­
enrt. A dancor or an icn skatnr cannot trip or fall 
during a pnrformancn. An expert defonse lawyer 
cannot losn a casn. A dwf cannot add too much 
of a particular spien to a favnrito dish. 
On a plant~ comparablo to the livns of folk 
loading morn ordinary lives, I have found myself 
lalwlt~d as an nxpnrt with certain computer pro­
grams by my Pmploynr and co-workers. I'll be 
tlw first to admit I have a long way to go, Hspe­
t:ially with the rnpoatedly upgrading of both soft­
wart~ and hardwarn. Bnsearch papers publishod 
with my by-linn havo caused a wakt~ of requests 
to usn my "nxpt~rt" knowledgn to assnss thfl writ­
ings of othnrs on the subject. Bning a high school 
graduatn. wifn. molhor and snrretary, at such 
limns I ftwl very honored and vnry seared. This 
is becausP I know my talnnt as a writer-whilfl 
a habit after 25 ynars-rnmains a gift from 
c;od. Sonwhow. in llis mysterious workings, our 
loving Lord always managns to point mn in the 
right dirPction wlwn I'm intnrvinwing someone, 
or doing rnsParrh. lin guidns my pnn wlwn I face 
a blank slwPt of paper. he has provided mn with 
tho kind of tTPativily and inlPIIertlhat acts lik(1 
a dirtionary or tlwsaurus. pulling the right 
words togetlwr to makP an interosting story. 
I supposP, if most pPopln think about it, thny 
might agrt'P that tlwir own uniquP talents havn 
tlw sanw origin. which makns (;od t.lw only rnal 
PXpPrt. ThnrP still rnmains tlw dilemma howPv­
Pl', of having ot.lwrs designate us an "expmt" in 
soml'lhing. It is a tnw test in humility. 
This virtue kPPps us from gPtling a "big hr.ad." 
PspPrially wlwn praisPd as an "nxpt'rt." llumility 
allows us to acknowiPdgn thP altPnlion in a gra­
rious nwnnP!', at tho same linw explaining that 
WP arP limitPd human beings and may not live 
up to tlw nxpPrtations of otlwrs. Though thny 
may not listm1 and tlw outcome prove disap­
pointing, humility will allow us to bear their 
ingratitude or insults with a praytw and a simple 
apology. 
All tliings ronsiderPd, I sonwlimns wantto quit 
writing altogPtlwr. I h<tve lward about individu­
als lt·aving nwdkal praetice, retiring their danc­
ing shoes and so forth, just to nst:apn lhn label ol' 
"pxpPrt." Ynt. tlw fact rnnutins that the gifts God 
has giwn us should bn usnd for llis glory. llis is 
tlw only opinion we !HHHI worry about. Doing 
our lwst for God is all that rnally matters. 
So I'll knep at it, pen in hand. fully aware I'll 
rwvPr ht> an nxpert. What a comforting thought! 
.Julie 1\. Ferraro is the local sales representa­
•titw for Faitlwwar. and is execuli{le director(~( '/'he l'il Troupe theatre company. 1/er column runs twery other Wednesday. 
'f'h e l!iews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Obser11er. 
• AWAKENINGS 

Ford's Resolution Distorts Framers' Intentions 
On Sunday, former President of the United Stales Gerald Ford recommended that President Clinton be publicly rebuked by Congress· in the well of the HousH. 
· I respect this elder statesman for his prag­
J.P. 

matism, and applaud his bi-partisan­ship during
Cooney 
this Hpisode -----=========----of pending
constitution­al crisis -if anyone can shed light on the dynamics of' this predicament, it is the man who restored public confidence in our governmental institutions and put Watergate behind us. Nevertheless, upon examina­tion. his advice bears potentially grave consequences for our constitutional system. 
In his counsel to Congress and the President. Ford eriticiws narrow 
partisanship and ~rgcs leaders to pause and con­
sider the long­term conse­quences of romov­ing this Pn~sident from office." "More is at stake than the 
President's fate," 
he writes. With this in mind, and determining that the President's actions constitute an oversight wor­thy of public inquiry, he point­edly frames the issuo at hand: "The question con­fronting us, then, is not whether the 
Prnsidenl has done wrong, but rather. what is an appro­priat!~ form of punishnwnt for his wrongdoing. A simple apology is inadequate, and a line would trivial­ize his misconduct by lrnating it as a nwre qunstion of monetary restitu­tion." 

Without nxami­nation or t1Xplana­lion, Ford sum­marily concludes that the Presidnnt's conduct docs not rise to tho level of "those deliberately impreeisB words 'high crimns and misde­meanors."' llr, thus suggests a trifling compromise­force tho PrPsident to stand before CongrPss and the American people and faee a harshly worded rr,buke. 
lnstnad of a chamber full of elamor and applausfl, as is wstomary during the State of tho Union Address, Ford envisions a chilling seene of revulsion and austnrity. This. he believfls, would eleanse the polity and restore dignity to the Prr,sidflm:y. Ford's proposed resolution lacks historical precedent and constitutional grounding, howevnr; it actually sub­vorts the Constitution and thfl vague process for impeachment laid out therein. lie fails to mention that his reeommnndation rflquims that the President and Congress eut a deal on the terms of the rebuke. Before Ford's scenario could play out, woeks of nego­tiations would be necessary betwnen the President's advisors and attorneys, members of the House and Senatn leadership of both parties and the Office of the Independent Council. The Constitution makes no mention of, nor does it even allude to the concept of culling a deal; it is similarly devoid of the terms "cen­sure" or "rebuke" when it comes to Congress' dealing with misdeeds by the President. It simply grants the House the "sole Power of Imp11achment" and the Senate the powflr to ruin on conviction. 
It is possible that the PresidPnt could escapt~ removal from office. however-the Constitution is clear on this point: ".Judgment in Cases of Impeachment shall not extend further than to removal from Ol'liee, and disqualification to hold and enjoy any Office of honor." Tho Framers foresaw a dilemma such as this onfl-a situation where the conduct of a President is reprehensible, but the mis­deeds do not necessarily warrant removal from ol'liee. However, tho Framers do not allow for a dnal or a compromise. It is thfl duty of the llouse to hold hear­ings on impeachment and the prerogative of tho Senate to rule thereafter. The Senate could choose an alternative, such as a public rebuke or some form of censure, but not before thfl guidelines set forth in the Constitution are carried out. 
The Constitution only says that removal from office 
is the most severe punishment. not the only one. It is critical to the health and stabili­ty of our constitu­tional system that we follow the proper procedures for judging potnn­tial misconduct by a public official; America is, after­all, a "nation of laws, not men." Ford seeks to res­cue the country from what promis­flS to be a long, bitter and poten­tially corrosiv11 process. But tlw Framers rwver imagined that this would hn an expe­riencn without mnotional cost. They intendnd it to be a procPss that. through its sym­bolism and com­
prt~hensiveness. 

would lngitimiz11 institutions. purify thn polity, and rnstore public ron­l'idnncn. 
In Tlw l'ndnralist. (Numlwr h5). llamilton l'ornsons that tlw proc1~ss "will sPldom fail to agitatn tlw pas­sions of tlw whole community, and to divide it into par­tins mort~ or less 
friendly or inimical to the accused. In many t:ases it will connect ilstllf with the pre-existing !'actions, and will enlist all their animositiPs, partialitins, inllumJct~ and internsl on one side or on tho otlwr." Hamilton also asserts that there is no viable allnrnativP to this public inquiry. "Is it not designed as a method ol' NATIONAL INQUEST into the conduct of public nwn?" "NATIONAL INQUEST"-Hamilton capitaliz11d tlwst~ words, not me. That's what this is about-it's a national cleansing. The Congn~ss and President haw no right to cut a deal. They have a responsibility to carry out the Constitution. Not even a Washington 'wise-man' like former Prcsidnnt Ford may undt1r­mine the ideals and the intontions laid out by tlw FramHrs. 
J.P. Cooney is a senior government and ecorwmics major. /lis column appears every other Wednesday. He can be reached via e-mail at Cooney.6@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


OTHE 
---------------Wednesday, October 7, 1998
page. BSERYER 

O
n September 16, fans of all ages packed Coveleski Stadium in downtown South Bend to see the intense band Creed. The band, originally from Tallahassee, Fla., has a current double-platinum album :'My Own Prison" that has three number-one singles on the rock charts. Creed's music has been compared by many to Pearl Jam. This largely has to do with the voice of their lead singer Scott Stapp. 
Stapp's sound has a striking similarity to Eddie Vedder's, but the two bands are different in many ways. Creed has been heavily influenced by the Doors and Led Zeppelin. After purchasing Creed's album this summer and being very pleased with what I heard, I was very anxious to see the band perform live. 
A local band named Get Spin first took the stage at approximately 7:30p.m. After playing a couple tunes that started to get everyone moving, they knew it was time for their departure when everyone started chanting "We Want Creed!" The band, consisting of Scott Stapp on vocals, Mark Tremonti playing guitar, Brian Marshall on bass and Scott Phillips playing the drums took the stage at 8:30 p.m. The lights at Coveleski went out, the spotlights came on and a large group of people, including myself. rushed as fast as they could to get close to the stage. Many people remained in the seating section and chose to enjoy the show sitting down. The stage was placed on second base and the majorjty of the people were standing on the in-field. Creed opened with one of their more popular songs, "Torn." Within a blink of the eye, the mosh pits opened up, beverages were spilling all over and brave fans took to the hands of the crowd to "crowd surf' their way to the stage. 
The next six songs were very fast and kept the crowd's adrenaline pumping. This list included "Ode," "In America" and "Sister." At times, I felt like I was at a Hage Against the Machine concert while I participated in the slam pits. After an hour of good music and pure fun, Creed slowed things down for a little bit. Lead vocalist Scott Stapp talked to the crowd about how they wrote the next song while on tour in the last couple months, and how he wrote it for his unborn son. "With My Arms Wide Open" was the name of the song, and it has potential to be their fourth huge hit. Next was the popular "My Own Prison," which had many fans singing as loud as they could. Creed left the stage at this point only to have the hundreds of crazy fans raise their lighters to the sky in request for more. Band members made their way back on stage to perform their final two big hit singles "One" and "What's This Life For." · 

The show was a large success and I don't think many fans left unhappy. At many times throughout the concert, Scott Stapp would talk for a few minutes to the crowd about the song they were about to play. After reading an artiele about the hand. I recently learned that the song "What's This Life For" was written about the suicide of a former classmate of Stapp and Tremonti. This band is well on their way to reaching more fame and being known for their intense concerts. 
Corey Hartman 
The Dynamic Duo 
They Might Be Giants "worm" their way into Chicago's Metro 
I
n 1965, Bob Dylan, responding to a press question regarding the genre of music he played, said that he preferred to think of himself as a song and dance man. Following in his grand tradition are They Might Be Giants. H·ailing from Brooklyn, NY, the duo have released six studio albums, a collection of B-sides and their most recent, a collection of live recordings called Severe Tire Damage It might seem odd to promote a live album with a tour, but any excuse for a tour is good enough for them. This is the band famous for playing (they still do) every Thursday at a particular bar in Brooklyn since they began. It might seem that TMBG are more of a studio group than a performance group, but in fact their live sets out­shim~ even the best of their studio recordings. 
The first song performed at the October 2 concert in Chicago was "Mr. Worm," one of three studio recordings on Severe Tire Damage. "Mr. Worm" is also the album's first single, so it was fitting that they should be celebrating it. The song is about a worm who says ''I'm not a real doctor, but I am a real worm" a lot. Before they began, John Linne! introduced himself and the their backup band until he was interrupted by John Flansberg's waiter impression:"Good evening, my name is John and I will be your waiter tonight. The special is "Mr. Worm."' Following his words the crowd exploded with hoots and hollers. 
They followed with a brand new, unrecorded track called "He's A Secret Agent Working for the Man." As Linne! explained, this song is about their drummer Dan. The song is about a secret agent who disguises himself as a drummer in a rock 'n roll band. Both Linne! and Flansberg lit the stage on fire with their kinetic perfor­mance style. 
Supporting the Johns were three Dan's, playing rhythm guitar, electric bass and drums. The two-piece horn section was filled by Jim and Tim on trombone and group that works hard and shines their brightest at live performances. One f1~els that it is very important to the band that everyone present has a groat time. Almost everyone did, saving the mother of a teen, who seemed a bit out of place. 
They performed a good variety of music spanning the entirety of their career. The first self titled album received the least representation, but provided o1w ol' the evenings best performances. "She's an Angel," a popular song, was brought to a new level by the addition of the live musicians, especially the horns. On the original release it is just the two John's playing two or three instruments. John Linn£~1 promised the crowd "thousands of surprises" and we were not disappointed. W1~ received an explosion of confetti, the usc of dummy head on long poles mouthing the words of songs and a performance of "Battle for the Planet of tlw Apes." An old ritu­al, in this song the two John's fought musically against the three Dan's. The audi­ence was instructed to scream and applaud for the Johns by yelling "Apes" and the Dan's who were rallied behind, "Humans". 
On Friday the Humans won, but Linne! promised that the Saturday show would result in the Apes' victory. The show's best performance !1at out was their now standard cover of "New York City," by Cub. 
After a little over two hours, the band retired, but came back for two encores end­ing as they began with an even more ambitious (a.k.a loud) rendition of "Dr. Worm." With another studio album in the works and the back-up ol' their constant Brooklyn performances, fans have few excuses to miss these song and dance mnn. Even people who might not enjoy the groups studio work might find th1~ vitality and pure joy of their live work enjoyable. 
trumpet. All five of the backup performers were introduced at least four or five times and late in the show, Flansberg paid homage to the people working lights and 
Stuart Smith 
tho rost of the technical crew working behind the scenes. They Might Be Giants is a 

OTHE 

Wednesday, October 7. I 998 BSERVER page 15 
. ... ~*" :!''
concert"feviews 
NO grad student Sean King reports from across the Atlantic on the island that gave us the Spice Girls, where toothpaste is more of a once-a-year thing, and where the phrase "giving someone a ride" has nothing to do with automobiles. 

GeHing into the Mode 
Even after 12 years and no drummer, Depeche Mode still rocks London 
F
or tlw second of tlwir two homecoming shows, Depeche Mode played a 
strong, hut not consistently ovnrwlwlming set. There were highpoints to be 
sun·. but th1~ band has not been able to fully shake off the residue of their 
Sonys of Faith & /Jevolion ( 1993) low period. In fact, this tour, supporting tlw rwwly released /Jepeclze Mode: The Singles 86-98, is meant to be a repentance of sorts-attempting to rninvigorat11 tho l'ans alienated by their rocontly pathetic atl!111l]lts to play n~al rock n' roll. 
All started wPII. Tlw haircuts were short and the instrumental introduction was deridPdly tedmo and dancoahle. Nobody takes a stage better than Depeche Mode and l.lw faithful W!'rl\ ri\Wanlml mtrly. The band made no bones about its roots and Ih11111 pPd through "Quostion of Time" ( 19X6). 
KPyboardisVsongwriter Martin Gore semn11d to think he was in a heavy metal hand. as he could lw s11en almost headhanging to this purely electronic track. Considering all the musical trends that so easily conw and go in Britain, his actions an1 as if to say, "This song rocks and I'm proud to have written it." Things only got hPttPr wilh "World In My Eyes" and "Policy of Truth", both from the 1990 hit album Violator. Tlw I'JX7 showstoppN "Nevm· Let Me Down Again" had everyonn in the crowd wav1• tlwir arms in rwar-porf'ect unison, a tradition immortaliznd in the 1988 I>M documentary concert lilm "I 0 I." ;\sa visual backdrop to last year's surprisingly p]Pasanl singlf' "It's No (;ood" fans wnrn tn1atod to a screened history of all Depeche Mod1• vidPos sinen I')!{(,. Considnring how thn band had seemed to losn its way in 1'!\cf'nt yPars and has now rnalizml tlw nrror of its ways, this video compilation was both niTnctiV!' and appropriately snntimnntal. 
Thf'n•al'tf'r hownvnr, tlw Modn got muddlnd in six or seven post-Violator tracks that nobody came to hear. Do we really have to relive this horror to such an extent'? 1993's "Walking In My Shoes" and "Condemnation" droned on. The new single "Only When I Lose Myself', is harmless enough on your stereo. but unimpressive and belabored on stage. Even the cherished "Question of Lust"(1986), sandwiched in the middle of this mess, was itself tarnished by tho presence of two soulful female back-up singers. No offense to these obviously talontnd women, but this is sacred ground! 
At this point, lead singer Dave Gahan told the crowd, "Lnt's pick things up a hit." ­DM lived up to its end of the deal by delivering 191)0 fan favorites "Enjoy Tho Silence" and "Personal Jesus." This was easily the highlight of the twtming. Unfortunate follow-up numbers "Barrel of Gun"(1997) and "I Feel You" (199:~) intermittently brought, everybody forcibly back to earth before they were swept away again by Martin Gore's solo encore "Somebody" (1985). 
The band returned to the stage for the timeless "Stripped"( 1986) and warmly closed the evening with a song they vowed only eight years ago to never play again. "Just Can't Get Enough"(1981). 
Dave Gahan no longer pleases the crowd by roaming the stage the way he used to. And the stage set itself does not have the awe inspiring look of' a Ni\S;\ launch pad as it once did, but hey, "What arc you going to do?'' Ilow many more chances will we have to see this truly innovative band? They helped change the traditional way many people see popular music These arn the guys who oncn had the nervn to sl'll out the Passadena Hose Bowl with no drummer. Wlwn they want to, Depeche Modr still rocks. 
album teview
·;~=~·+'' 

Appearing this Thursday, October 8th at St. Mary's Clubhouse 
Third Wish 
Currently on tour supporting their new self-tilled album 
1'Regional Rock Band of the Year" 
···Scene Magazine 

"Best Unsigned Artist" 
···APCA conference 

Participants in this year's 
H.O.R.D.E tour 

T
hink Dave Matthews meets Blues Traveler meets 10,000 Maniacs. Then,add in just about every other musical genre that exists, and you might be abln to imagine the Third Wish sound. Their music is an eclectic mix of blues. reggae and good old Deadhead rock n' roll. Third Wish hails from Cleveland and is becoming increasingly prominedt on the college music scene. They were named Scene Magazine's "Hegional Hock Band of tho Year," as wnll as the "Best Unsigned Artist" at this year's Al'Ci\ conference. They have also performed on the II.O.H.D.E. tour. alongside acts such as Bare Naked Ladies and Smashing Pumpkins. 
Their latnst CD, the self-titled Third Wish, is a collection of' live recordings mixed with studio tracks. Much more instrumentally powerful than the acoustic Strings of Culture (1994), and more evolved than Miles From Somewhere. (1996) this album demonstrates a song workmanship unknown in most modern music. Their musical talnnt is formidable and they've come far from their bnginnings as an acoustic quartet. 
Today, tlw band is electrified (literally) and boasts a variety of instruments. Bongo drums, keyboard, acoustic guitar and harmonica, togntluw with the usual corn of bass and rhythm guitars and drums, create fullness and power. Also, Third Wish is distinct from otlwr bands by employing two singers. Dan Ileberlein and Tara Marin 0' Malley. This balance allows a harmony and vocal riehnnss often found in few bands. 
llonesty is Third Wish' s ly~ical hallmark. They speak of life and love with no pretenses. Emotions are laid on the table -good and bad arc explored without apology. They ITal't words into beautiful forms that s1wms to be born of' tlw melody. 
Like all truly great bands. the Third Wish sound cannot be duplicated in a studio. ;\udienrn energy allows thn band to explore themselves and their music, creating new masterpiPePs at every show. That is what distinguishos this album from TW's previous recordings; it allows strangers the opportunity to experience its glory. 
Interspersed throughout the concert recordings arc studio tracks that demonstrate the growth Third Wish has experinneed over tlw ynars. Especially powerful are "Back llome ;\gain." a tribute to tlw beloved homebound road trip. and "Four Walls." a song praising tho simpiPr plea­sures. "We'll sit upon the nvnning porch and raise our glasses, toasting to our reekll'sstwss with hope it never passes." 
This album packs a happy punch. Dancing is not a result of' list1ming to Third Wish; il is a pre­requisite. Thn nnergy of this music invad11s your soul and leaves you chang1~d. More pP<U:eful. Even happy. You'll have the opportunity to expn­rience TW's live show this Thursday. Ortolwr Hth at St. Mary' s Clubhouse. Show time is S:OO and admissiori is frnn. Don't miss your chance to cxperinnce orw of' the country's foremost rollegn bands! 
Shannon Grady 
Wednesday, October 7. 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 16 

• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 
Aikman still out for count Leyland joins Rockies 
Associarc.~li Press  totally healed. "Troy knows how he feels  "It's disappointing and frus­trating that I've missed so  Associared Press  DENVEH  (;ebhard mot with Leyland in Pittsburgh. where the deal was made.  
IRVING, Texas  and we're going t make a good,  many  games,"  he  said.  "I  Despite Coors Field's reputa­ Terms of tlw contract w1~re  
lnjun~d  Troy Aikman will  smart decision for  our  team  thought I'd be back in four  tion as a manager's nightmare.  not announeed. but tho Post  
miss his target return game on Sunday.  and X-rays showed he's not ready," Gailey said.  weeks, but the collarbone just isn't ready.  the Colorado Hockies had the financial clout to sign former  and the Hocky Mountain Ni)WS said it was worth $6 million.  
The way quarterback Jason Garrett played against Washington, tllP Dallas Cowbovs can a[Tord.to be patient. .. Aikman. who went  Garrett is 2-1 as a starter since Aikman was injured including a 31-10 victory over the Redskins in which he hit 14-of-17 passes for 169 yards including a 43-yard scoring pass to Ernie Mills. "Jason played a very smart game," Gailey said. "The team  "It will make me feel better when I get back knowing we are still in the race. The team has done a great job while I've been gone." Aikman threw some passes last week and it hurt to do so. "I just don't want to be care­less," he said.  Florida Marlins manager Jim Leyland to a three-year con­tract. "I just felt like Colorado was the right thing to do," Leyland told The Denver Post late Monday after being named Don Baylor's successor. "I want Jerry McMorris and Bob  Before he accepted the job. Leyland said he contacted Dante Bichette and Larry Walker, and plans to speak with every playor on the Hockies roster by tonight. lie also ealled Baylor, who said Leyland wantr.d to makn sure it was OK with him if lw  
down with abroken collar-L____.:....:.___ bone against Aikman Denver in the second week of the season, had aimed for the Oct. 11 game against Carolina.  has a lot of confidence in him." Aikman said on Monday that he probably won't play until Nov. 2 at Philadelphia. The Cowboys are at Chicago on Oct. 18, and have a bye week after  Gailey said the Cowboys suf­fered a loss in their offensive line. Right guard Everett Mciver, a free agent signed in ; the offseason. will miss six to eight weeks because a sprained  Gebhard to win a World Series ring. I don't know if we can do it, but I'll take my chances." "Don Baylor did a great job for us, and he was a groat match as far as taking us from  took tho job. Leyland led the Marlins to tho World Series championship in 1997. his first of two years with the franchise. llowevnr. the team stumbled to a 54-1 OR  
But coach Chan Gailey said  that.  ligament in his right knee.  an  expansion  franchise  reeord this season as the roster  
....- Monclav. "It would take a major miracle for him to return, not a minor one." The coach said he isn't about to gamble with Aikman's  "I would guess that the game after the bye week against Philadelphia would be a more realistic goal," Aikman said. "I don't want to try to come back  Mciver was involved in the "Scissors Gate" incident in training camp in which wide receiver Michael Irvin cut him with a pair of scissors.  through our sixth season," said Gebhard, the Rockies'· general manager. "But to go beyond to the next level, we think Jim Leyland was the right mateh."  was decimated by movf\s aimed at keeping the payroll low. Leyland exercised an eseape elause and resigned from Florida last week. lie told the  
injury. "My preference is to play a  too early and jeopardize the rest of the season.  Flozell Adams, a second­round pick from Michigan  Leyland said he realizes one of the biggest problems he  Los Angeles Dodgers earlier this week he wasn't internstnd  
healthy Troy Aikman when that happens," Gailey said. "We're not going to jeopardize Troy or this team any sooner than we have to. That's just not right." X-rays showed on Monday that Aikman's collarbone hasn't • MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL  "Until it feels better I just don't want to risk it. It's a mat­ter of can I take a hit and not rebreak it again." Aikman said he couldn't have played this week even if Dallas had lost on Sunday.  State, will replace Mciver. Dallas is 3-2, with all its vic­tories coming against NFC East foes. The Cowboys host winless Carolina on Sunday at Texas Stadium.  faces is attracting established pitchers to Coors Field, which he has said might be "the toughest place in the major leagues to manage." It proved just that for Don Baylor, who was 440-469 as the only manager the Rockies have known in their six years of existence. He was fired last  in their manager's post. Earlier, Detroit Tigers gnner­al manager Handy Smith said he eontacted Leyland about their manager's job. Leyland managed the Pittsburgh Pirates from 1986 until 1996. reaching the National League championship series three times.  
Ripken Sr. battling lung cancer Associared Press chemotherapy, his wife, Vi, told The Sun. Ripken signed with Baltimore in 1957 as a catch­BALTIMORE er but soon turned to managing, spending 14 years Cal Ripken Sr., the long-time Baltimore Orioles in the minors. coach and former manager, and father of third His teams finished first or second on seven occa­baseman Cal Jr., is battling lung cancer, according sions, and he joined the Orioles' coaching staff in to his family. 1976. He was named manager in 1987, taking over Ripken Sr., 62. was diagnosed last week at Johns a last-place team. He was fired in 1988 after an 0­Hopkins Hospital where he has begun receiving 6 start.  week after the Rockies finished 77-85. It was the Rockies' first losing season in four years. "Mr. Leyland has agreed to a three-year contract to manage the Rockies through the year 2001. He will be introduced at a press conference Wednesday morning at Coors Field," Rockies public relations direc­tor Jay Alves said. Rockies owner McMorris and  "lin's the only one we've talked to," McMorris said last week. "Jim is clearly at the head of our list. I wouldn't say he's the only candidate, but he's at the top of our list." Now, the Hockies are expect­ed to have a busy winter in the free agent market and having a respected manager such as Leyland could only help lure top talent, McMorris said.  

The Observer acceprs classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. ar rhe Norre Dame oftice, 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classi!leds is 3p.m. All classifieds musr be prepaid. 
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per characrer per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe righr ro edir all classifieds for conrent wirhour issuing refunds. 
with. Friends on the swingset,trips to  NO Ftbl. tix  
NOTICES  the zoo,grandma, play groups,lulla­bies,too.This is a home where wish­ BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY info:  BUY-SELL 674-7645  DRUMMER WANTED to work on  We need some biblical knowledge this weekend. There are a few bibli­ 
es come true .We'd like to call to get  http://Business.michiana.org/bnbreg  professional project. Work will be  cal people I'd like to know more  
THE COPY SHOP  to know you.Call Shawn & Meg  219-291-7153.  published on a CD in early '99.  about.  
LaFortune Student Center  800-767­ NDFootbaii-Buy-Seii.Seasonal and  Serious musicians only, please.  
We're Open A Lot!!! Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight  4257.Legai/Medicai/AIIowable exp. paid.  FOR SALE  Individual Game Tickets. GA-only 674-7645  Contact Mike at 243-1696  Just so you know, Finn: on the Real World, David had a heart attack and  
Fri: 7:30 am -7:00 pm  "ATTENTION LESBIAN, GAY,  lindsey's friend died. the saga  
Sat: Noon -6:00 pm  PREPAID PHONE CARDS  NO Football Tickets Needed.  BISEXUAL AND QUESTIONING  continues.  
Sun: Noon-Midnight  SPRING BREAK  198 MIN. $20  AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726  STUDENTS" Original student  
When you need copies,  Cancun, Florida, Etc .Best  CALL 258-4805  group will hold support group meet­ BR-just so you know, i am not  
we're open!  Hotels,Parties,Prices.Book Early  NO FOOTBALL TIX  ing tomorrow 10/8. Confidentiality  scared or intimidated by the first  
and Save!!Earn Money+ Free  Beautiful brass bed,queen size, with  FOR SALE  will be respected. Call info line for  game win of the yankees. I know  
Trips!Campus Reps/Organizations  orthopedic mattress set and deluxe  AM 232-2378  details 236-9661.  that the Indians will beat the  
Early Spring Break  Wanted.  frame.New, never used,still in plas­ PM 288-2726  Yankees and then destroy the  
Specials! Bahamas Party Cruise!6  Inter-Campus Programs  tic.$225 219-862-2082  diane, you are ruining my life! I am  Braves in the World Series.  
Days $27911ncludes most meals!  1-800-327-6013  Need LSU tix  going to barf on you!  
Awesome  www.icpt.com  93FORD TAURUS Wagon, Power  289-2918  I hope my Indians shirt fits you!!  
Beaches.Nightlife!Departs From  AC 133K V.Ciean $4290. Call  mark, i hope you feel better.  You will be wearing a cap as well,  
FloridaiCancun & Jamaica  2773254.  my friend'  
Air.Hotei,Meals &Parties  Now Hiring NEW RESTAURANT/  Always buying and selling N D foot­ and that I don't get sick. :)  
S339'Panama City Room With  WINE BAR  JVC VHS camcorder with LCD  ball tickets. 289-8048  25 people in one arid dorm room!  
Kitchen,? Free Parties  The Vine  color monitor. Hardly used.$450 obo  brent-how's the pact? still going  sounds like fun.  
S129'Daytona Room With Kitchen  122 S Michigan St  284-4127  strong?  
$149'1998 BBB Award  South Bend, IN  Need Army G.A.s  gina -what up, punk? how have  
Winner'springbreaktravel.com  (next to the Football Hall of Fame)  88 ESCORT, LOW MILEAGE  -not in student section- must be easy for uncle mark. no  things been? must I communicate  
1-800-678-6386  Know a little about wine? Want to  Good Condition, $1200  Call Stephanie @ 273-0893  temptation.  with you through classifieds or are  
learn a lot about wine?  233-7297 After 6PM  we gonna party together this week­ 
WANTED  Come apply as a server or bar­tender. Want to join an exciting  Will trade 2 Baylor tickets for 2 ASU tickets. Please call 908-722-7901.  except john.  end?  
new business and be a part of our  91 GEO Metro. 57K on engine/  Keough boys-Ben, Mark, Arney,  Happy Birthday Kara-mia. happy  
ABSOLUTE SPRING BREAK..  team? Please apply within for all  tranny! New paint, frt brakes,  NO MOM NEEDS 5 ARMY GA'S­ Alan and Kevin-it was fun hanging  birthday to you! Your divas love  
"TAKE 2"  positions: servers, bartenders,  rotors, tuneup, cleaning.$3000.  PLEASE CALL 1-800-235-5568  out with you this weekend! perhaps  you!  
2 FREE TRIPS ON ONLY 15  cooks & bussers. Mon-Fri 9 to 5.  John: 289-7992W,  x2242  i'll honor you with my presence  
SALES and ... EARN $$$$.  Now interviewing.  291-4132H  again one day... love, heather  Has the ark sunk?  
Jamaica,Cancun,Bahamas,Fiorida,  2 for Army & Baylor  
Padre! Lowest prices!Free Meals, Parties & Drinks. ''Limited Offer". 1800-426­ L...___F_O_R_RE_N_T_  __,!I~...._T_IC_KE_T_s_  __,  call Steve@ 901-763-7100, x4302 FOR SALE:4 ARMY TIX-CALL  Michelle, see I told you I would write what a smart, witty, pretty gal  Those Boil!'rmakers are nothing but trouble ... trying to corrupt such innocent young women.  
771 O/www.sunsplashtours.com  1 ,2,3,4,5 BDRM HOMES. NEAR  I NEED  GA TIXS ALL HOME  (((((((((  you are.  
CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW  GAMES.272-6306  (516)269-3426 ASAP-BEST  SA­ 
SPRING BREAK '99!  GILLIS PROPERTIES.272-6551  OFFER  Is there some kind of stress hotline  Only three days till the SYR and the  
Cancun' Nassau• Jamaica 'Mazatlan  TICKETMART Inc  I can call?  list of prospects are dwindling.  
• Acapulco'Bahamas Cruise'Fiorida'South Padre  That Pretty Place, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available  BUY-SELL-TRADE Notre Dame Football Tickets  Need 2 Baylor GAs. Please call212-636-7472.  Tomorrow is the day of reckoning.  
Travel Free and make lots of  for football/parent wknds.5 Rooms  258-1111  I am the RA on call; can I please  Whoever we ask. say yes. You  
Cash!Top reps are offered full-time staff jobs.Lowest price  with private baths,$80­$115,Middlebury,30 miles from  No student tickets please  PERSONAL  come in? -----------------­ know you want to go to an SYR with the cool people who make up  
Guaranteed. Call now for details!  campus. Toll Road, Exit #107,1-800­ wooster school  these classifieds and produce the  
www.classtravel.com  418-9487.  FOR SALE  FAX IT FAST!!!  fabulous Observer you read every­ 
800/838-6411  FOOTBALL TICKETS  Sending & Receiving  this is jenny. i saw what you did.  day. Come on, don't you?  
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  271-9412  at  
ADOPTION IS LOVE  ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE  THE COPY SHOP  oh, SYR season has arrived.  This weekend didn't provide very  
Happily married NO Alumni cou­ TO CAMPUS. 243-0658.  WANTED  LaFortune Student Center  much biblical knowledge, for some  
ple,with adopted 3 year old daugh­ NO FOOTBALL TICKETS  Our Fax# (219) 631-FAXI  gotta love NDA.  of us. But SR learned some new  
ter, wants to shower a new baby  271-1526  FAX IT FAST!!!  biblical figures and a few new  
with love.Artistic full-time mom,ath­ People from Purdue are big, nasty  psalms.  
letic lawyer dad, and a sister to play  troublemakers.  

page 17 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, October 7, 1998 
•NBA 
Streak in jeopardy as NBA cancels preseason 
A.,,odoucd Press 
NEW YOHK 

Tlw NBA proseason has bonn canc~olml. Hegular season games an~ likely to go next. 
Tlw NBA's perfect record of nnvc~r missing a regular season ganw bncausn of a labor disputn is in snrious jc~opardy after the Jnague canceled the cmtirn pre­season Monday. 
Artc~r previously calling oil the l"irst 24 exhibition games, tho N B A eanr. n In d t h n fi n a I lJ 0 lmcausn of stalled labor negotia­tions with tho players. 
"At this point, our teams can­not possibly he ready to play any games before November," deputy commissioner Huss Granik said. "It's sad that we have been unable to have any meaningful negotiations." 
Wiping out the exhibition games will cost between $35 million and $40 million in ticket sales alone, Granik told The Now York Times. 
Union leader Billy Hunter said he was not surprised at the owners' action. 
"I think they intended it all along," llunter said. "I believe the league, the owners, and the eommissionor deeided they were going to play hardball. 
"They've locked us out, 

they've refused to negotiate, and they've given us a proposal that's ludicrous." 
Hunter said the owners had submitted a proposal with mechanics they knew would not be acceptable to the union. 
"We are not going to accept a bad deal, and we are not going to be intimidated into accepting a bad deal." 
The noxt collective bargaining session is set for Thursday. The league said decisions concerning possible cancellation of regular season games would be made next week. The season is sched­uled to begin Nov. 3. 
When the two sides finally 
Are you looking for a 
job that gives you 
valuable 
design experience 
1Nhile offering 
reat a ? 

Applyfor Assistant Ad Design Manager for The Observer Ad Design Office 
Required experience: Extensive knowledge of Quark Express, Photoshop, and Illustrator applications. 
Extensive application is not necessary. Just call Brett Huelat at 1-6900 and leave your name and number or drop off a description of your design experience at the Observer office in the basement of South Dining Hall. Sophomore or Junior preferred. 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME Summer Engineering Program Foreign Study in London, England 
INFORMAnON MEETING: Wednesday, October 7, 1998 Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 
7:00p.m. 

~~. 
~..1;::>,.. ·~ 
(;•.......
--.. ­
c:· ·~:'" -~ 
'Vj:,~~t·~_ft
\i,;:iJ; 
AU. ENGINEERING STUDENTS WELCOME! 
meet again, they will have only a few days to strike a deal that would preserve an 82-game schedule. 
Once a new agreement is reached, it wiJJ take at least three weeks to sign players, make trades and hold abbreviat­ed training camps. So unless a deal can be completed a few days after the sides reconvnne, there appears to be no way the season can start on its sched­uled date. 
The owners made their latest proposal 10 days ago, still call­ing for a system with an absolute ceiling on salaries -or a "hard" salary cap. The union said the owners included Hi pages of new demands that weren't discussed in any previ­ous meetings. 
"Our proposals would result in an average player salary of more than $3.1 million and a minimum salary for 10-year vet­erans of $750,000," Granik said Monday. "Unfortunately, the union leadership has been 
• TRACK 
unwilling to give any serious consideration to what we have offered." 
Both sides await a ruling from arbitrator John Feerick on the union's grievance over whether players with guaranteed con­tracts should be paid during the lockout. Feerick's decision could come at any time bofore Oct. 19. 
The union planned to have players at about a dozen arenas today to try to gain public sup­port for its position. 
Hunter said the idea canw fr!lm the union's negotiating eommittm~ on a suggestion from Washington Wizards forward Juwan lloward, a mnmber of the executive board. 
"We've been trying to work out a settlnnwnt wilh tlw own­c~rs and carve out a deal that's fair to both sides," llunter told USA Today. 
"We'll try to demonstrat.P to fans that's what we'rn trying to do. Players will lw around to nnlightc~n fans as to what's tran­spiring." 
Johnson looks to race thoroughbred 
Associated Press 
TOHONTO 

Ben Johnson. thwarted repeatedly in his attempt to be reinstated into track and field, has turned to racing against horses and cars. 
Morris Chrobotek, Johnson's agent, confirmed Tuesday that the 36-year-old sprinter will participate in a bizarre exhibi­tion race Oct. 1 5 in Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island. Johnson, who had the Olympic gold medal and 1DO­meter world record stripped after testing positive for drugs at the 1!J88 Games, will run against a standardbred pacer, a thoroughbred and a stock car in an event organized by tlw Atlantic Lottery Corporation. 
Proceeds from the race will go to the Charlottetown chapter of the Children's Wish Foundation, which organizes trips and celebrity visits for terminally ill 
c:hildrc~n. 
Lottery spokesman Mike 

Handa!! said the idea for the 
spectacle came from his organi­
zation, which holds a fundraiser 
nach year fi1r the charity. 
'Tel say it's probably thn most 

unique event wc~'ve evnr had," 
lw said, adding it will lm a seri­
ous race. 
"Ben is running to win, the 

horses are running to win and I 
know the driver always drivos to 
win," lw said. "It will be a lot of 
fun but what's important is 
we're going to be able to raiso 
so1~10 moiHl~ for a very worth­
while cause. 
Johnson hasn't eompetnd 

since reeeiving a lifntime sus­
pension from the lnternational 
Amateur Athlcltic Federation in 
1!J!J3 after a second positivn 
drug test. llis most recent 
appeal of the ban was denied 
last month in an Ontario court. 
Johnson has continued to 

train and Chrohotek contends 
his client ean still compote with 
the world's best sprinters. But 
thn charity race promis(~S to be 
a strange event, one that even 
Chrobotnk can't rclsist joking ·about. 
"I want the Canadian Centre 

for Ethics in Sport to test the 
horses," he said Ttwsday. "Wn 
ask that lw !center dirnctor 
Victor Lachance I personally go 
out and take tlw urinP from 
tlwm. I want him personally to 
test the horses. 
"I want thnm to test the 

engine of the ear to sen if tlH•y'rp 
putting any spneial gasoline in 
thc'rn." 
Johnson wasn't availabiP for 

COilliiHmL 
"lie's hiding out in training," 

Chrobotek said. "lln \Vants to 
show you how slow horsns an•." 
Dc~tails of tlw racn will be 

anrwunced at a news confer­
ence Thursday, hut llandall said 
tlw four participants will cover 
distances ranging from SO to 
300 meters during a live har­
ness-racing card at the 
Charlottc~town Driving !'ark. 
"Thny'll be staggnred basPd on tlwir rapablc~ spnPd wlwre tlw car will probably be tlw furthest away and tlw human will proba­bly be tlw dosest." he said. 
'­
Wednesday, October 7, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 18 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 
Yankees shock Indians with explosive pitching, batting 
Associated Press 
David Wells and the Yankees made sure payback was swift and brutal. 
A fivp-run first inning blew .Jaret Wright right out of the game, leaving the Indians with shocked. blank expressions. 
Wells then shut out Cleveland until the ninth, and New York began its revenge for last year's playoff loss with a 7-2 victory Tuesday night in the opener of the American League championship series. 
"I was geared tonight. I real­ly wanted this," Wells said. "You win the first game, it can set a tone." 
Paul O'Neill, Bernie Williams. Jorge Posada and Scott Brosius all hit run-scor­ing singles in the first off Wright. who beat the Yankees twice in Cleveland's live-game victory last fall. 
Posada added a sixth-inning 
homer off Chad Ogea, and 
Williams hit a run-scoring 
double in the seventh as the 
Yankees won their fourth 
straight postseason game and 
their season-high 11th straight 
overall. 
"lt takes a lot of pressure off 
you when you win the first 
game," Yankees manager Joe 
Torre said. 
With their 118th win this 
year. the Yankees matched the 
major league record set by the 
1906 Chicago Cubs, who won 
116 in the regular season and 
two more in the World Series. 
New York. which had 11 
hits. also set a tnam record 
with 21 consecutive shutout 
innings in the postseason, sur­
passing its 20 scoreless 
innings against the New York 
Giants in the 1921 World 
Series. The Yankees, who 
swept Texas in the first round, 
have outscored opponents 16­
3 so far in the playoffs. 
David Cone will try to extend the domination Wednesday in Game 2, pitching against Charles Nagy in Yankee Stadium's famous October twi­light shadows. 
A year ago, the Yankees also won the first game against Cleveland. But it was hardly dominating, with New York overcoming a 5-0 deficit to win 8-6. This time. the cheers started when Charisse Strawberry, the wife of strick­en outfielder Darryl Strawberry, threw out the cer­emonial first pitch and they didn't stop. 
The Yankees, still angered that Wright hit Luis Sojo with a pitch during spring training, fracturing a bone ill thP Manny Ramirez homered in the ninth, may be funky off the field. but on the mound he's strictly business. 

He struck out seven and walked one, leaving Ramirez's one-out homer, just the fifth hit for Cleveland. He retired 11 in a row at one stretch and 15 of 16. 
His five-hitter last year gave the Yankees a 2-1 lead in the series, and New York was four outs away from beating the Indians in Game 4 before Sandy Alomar's tying eighth-inning homer off Mariano Rivera. 
Cleveland went on win the series and came within two :nnts of beating Florida in the 
World Series. bullpen. Whatever magic 
New York, which hasn't Wright possessed over Now trailed in any postseason game York last fall was gono. this year, pounced on Wright Tino Martinez bounced into with four straight singles lead-a fielder's choice and Tim ing off the lirst. Haines struck out. but Wright 
First, Chuck Knoblauch, then made it even worso with a wild Derek Jeter, then an HBl sin-pitch to Shane Sp()ncer that gle by O'Neill. Pitching coach allowed O'Neill to seon) from Mark Wiley came to the third. mound. trying to settlo the 22-"I just didn't get it donn," year-old right-hander. Wright said. 
Wright, chased by two three-The hot rookie walked and run homers in the first-round Posada finished off Wright opener against Boston last with another HBI single. Of week, then gave up another Wright's 36 pitches, just 1 iS RBI single, this time to were strikes. Williams. Ogea gavr, up an HBJ singln 
All were hit hard. Just four to Brosius. then held th<) batters in and Ogea already Yankees until Posada homnrnd was warming up in the leading off the sixth. 
infielder's left hand. made sure 
right away that the 
~ons~ i \~~ 
opener of a postseason series for 
the eighth consecu­tive time. 
"To see Jaret go out in the first inning was gratifying," Wells said. "When you get five runs, with the way we've been pitching, is plenty." 
We II s. 
who had 
23 consec­
u t i v e 
shutout 
innings in 
the post­
season 
before 

w==========;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~====~~==========~==~~==============~
The CANDAX McNair Program Announces the 1998-99 
R
ECRUITMENT AND ORGANIZATIONAL MEETINds WITH PROF. MARIO BORELLI 
(You need attend only one of the meetings. We have scheduled two for your convenience. ) 
FOR STUDENTS WHO ARE INTERESTED IN GRADUATE STUDIES AND WHO ARE EITHER 
FffiST GENERATION COLLEGE STUDENTS 
FROM LOW INCOME FAMILIES 
(ALL ETHNIC BACKGROUNDS) 
OR 

AFRICAN AMERICAN, HISPANIC NATIVE AMERICAN 
MONDAY, 10/12 AND TUESDAY, 10/13 
6:00 PM (TO 7:00 PM) ROOM 116 O'SHAUGHNESSY 
ALL ELIGIBLE STUDENTS ARE WELCOME Refreshments after each Meeting 

II 


-
COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS CAREER FAIR THURSDAY, OCTOBER 8 
9:30 AM -4:00 PM 
CENTER OF CONTINUING EDUCATION -LOWER LEVEL 
WE WANTED TO GET A HEAD START ON INTRODUCING OURSELVES AT THE CAREER FAIR. 
Founded by five college students in 1989, the company has grown to more than 500 employees by hiring graduates from the best schools in the country. We're revolutionizing the way products are bought and sold for Fortune 500 companies such as Hewlett-Packard, Chrysler, Boeing, AT&T and Ernest and Julio Gallo. 
We are looking for top candidates from around the country to join our re-engineering revolution. Candidates should be extremely aggressive and creative. Strong communication and presentation skills are required along with the desire for continuous development. We are looking for bright and tal­ented people from varied backgrounds. Only the best need apply. For more information, check out our website at www.trilogy. com. 
Meet us at the Career fair, where interviewers will be available for one-on-one conversations. for more infor­mation, contact anne.letzerich@trllogy.com. 
TRILOGY 
6034 West Courtyard Drive Austin, Texas 78730 USA 
t 51Z.4Z5.3400 f 512.685.3960 e recruiting@trilogy.com 
www.trilogy.comjrecruiting 

Trilogy is an equal opportunity employer 
Wednesday, October 7, 1998 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
page 19 


7:30 p.m. 
8:15p.m. 

The University ofNotre Dame welcomes 
CVinko [ardina[ Pugic 
Archbishop of Sarajevo 
Recipient of the 1998 Notre Dame Award 
Members of the University community and the general public are invited to the ceremonies marking the conferral of the award, 
Wednesday, October 7, 1998 
Presentation of the Notre Dame Award Auditorium, The Hesburgh Center for International Studies 
Public Reception for Cardinal Puljic ­The Great Hall, The Hesburgh Center for International Studies 
Music by the Notre Dame Liturgical Choir 
Please join us in honoring aman ofpeace 
·-··-----·----------------··---.. ---------------.. -----------------. ----~-----.... -----------.., _________ ----­
' ' ' ''' •' ' I' I o' 't'' 
. . . . . . ' ......... ' ' .. ' ..... . 
page 20 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, October 7', 1998 ., 
DEPARTMENT OF THEOLOGY 
PROVOST'S DISTINGUISHED LECTURE SERIES 
BARBARA NEWMAN 
NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY 
TWO LECTURES 
"SHE WHO IS: FEMALE GOD-TALK AND CHRISTIAN MONOTHEISM" 7:30P.M. 
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6 ''INTIMATE PIETIES: HOLY TRINITY AND HOLY FAMILY IN THE LATE MIDDLE AGES" 
4:00P.M. WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 7 AUDITORIUM THE HESBURGH CENTER FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDIES 
************************************************* 
BROWN BAG LUNCH "HILDEGARD OF BINGEN ON THE PROLOGUE TO THE GOSPEL OF JOHN" WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 7 12NOON READING ROOM, MEDIEVAL INSTITUTE *************************************************** 
GENDER STUDIES FORUM 
"WOMANSPIRIT, WOMAN POPE: AN ITALIAN HERESY OF THE THIRTEENTH CENTURY" 
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 8 
12:30 P.M. LIBRARY LOUNGE 
TEXT (LIBER DNINORUM OPERUM 1.4.105, TRANSLATED) FOR BROWN BAG LUNCH AVAILABLE IN THEOLOGY DEPARTMENT AND MEDIEVAL INSTITUTE. TEXT FOR GENDER STUDIES FORUM AVAILABLE IN GENDER STUDIES OFFICE 
-

TT..t';:JMl?LT.U;{VfLA LlLML . 
The Observer • 1./AllJ AUVt:KnSE.MENT page 21 

"Without question...an investment banking power­house"-Wall Street Journal 

In June 1998, Union Bank of Switzerland merged with Swiss Bank Corporation to create the new UBS AG. 
The investment banking businesses of both banks came together to form Warburg Dillon Read* -one of the world's most significant investment banks. 
As a world leader among financial institutions, Warburg Dillon Read has opportunities for students interested in join­ing an organization that has built it's franchise as the invest­ment bank of choice, meeting the global banking needs of our clients. 
"...a worthy contender to rival the American groups that style themselves as 'global' players"-The Times 
We cordially invite the students of University of Notre Dame to learn more about graduate opportunities on: 
Wednesday, October 7, 1998 
6:30 PM -8:30 PM 
La Fortune Center Foster Room 
All applications for graduate and internship positions can be made via our website. www.wdr.com 
We are an equal opportunity employer. 
*Warburg Dillon Read 
*References to Warburg Dillon Read in the United States refer to Warburg Dillon Read LLC, a registered broker dealer. 
-
r:~e2_2~~----~--~~~~~~~~~~T_h-e_O..b-_se~r---'-ve-r_•P_~_ID_A~D=VE~R---'-TJ_;_SE---'-M~EN=T======·_'--·-=-'··=-==,l~_e.~d_n-es_da=y,O=cr_obe_~7~,~19_98­
Experience Diversity at Notre Dame 

Multicultural Fall Festival October 5 -October 9 "Movements That Made History/Herstory" 
Fireside Chats (Free Lunch) October 5-9 12:00pm-1:00pm Reekers South Dining Hall 
Monday: Dr. Kathleen Weigert, "Is Peace Possible?" Tuesday: Iris Outlaw, ''African-American Women on ND's Campus" Wednesday: Fr. Hesburgh, "The Civil Rights Movement: From the Beginning" Thursday: Alan Bigger, "The Greening of Notre Dame" Friday: Fr. Ken Maley, "Quantum Spirituality'' 
Culture on the  Entertainment on the  
Quad October 5-9  Free Refreshments  Quad October 5-9  
4:30pm -5:30pm  4:30pm-5:30pm  
Reekers  Reekers  
South Dining Hall  South Dining Hall  

Sponsored by the Multicultural Executive Council 
'------~-~.:_:__:___:__:___:___________:_-__._________ 

page 23 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, October 7, 1998 
1-Hall 
continued from page 28 
bdore reaching their goal. In the seeond half, the Pangborn offense con­tinued to struggle. 
After not being able to get the ball upfield. they were forced to punt from their own 40­yard line. 
On the first play of the drive, Howard quar­terback Jill Veselik kept the ball, ran to the right. and darted upfield untouched for a 70­yard touchdown run. 
It was the first time this season that the Pangborn defonse had been scored upon. 
"I just ran around the corner and thore was nobody thorn. My receivers dida groat job blocking for mo," said Vesolik. 
Those receivers being therr. to block were the n~sult of an ingenious play thought up by lloward coach Nato Medland. 
All four of thn Howard receivers lined up on the right side, forcing the Pangborn defense to cowr each of tlwm. This gave room for Veselik to run behind the receivers, whose blocking led lwr to the goal. 
Al"t<w tlw touchdown. Pangborn threatened in thP dosing seconds bnforn Veselik intl~rcopted DePaul's final pass as the clock ran down. 
"We made adjustnwnts on dnfense because we knl~W thl~Y would be tough," Mndland said. 
"All of our athlntos worked hard. .Jill Vesnlik is a coach's dream. Besides great skills, she has a gJ'l•at work ethic." 
Walsh 6, Lyons 0 

Tho womnn of Walsh started ofT the evening with an impressive showing on both offense and defense. 
In tho first half. tlw Walsh defense was able to tamn the Lyons Lions very well. Time and time again. Lyons quarterback Katy Yanez was scrambling in the backfield beforo being sacked. 
Tlw Lyons defense was just as efTective. 
Early in the second half, Lyons linebacker Melissa Matheny was able to sack the Walsh quarterback four times in a span of five min­utes. 
The Lyons defense eontinued to impress. 
Late in the half'. Lyons defender Kathleen ()'Boyle inlPreepted a Walsh pass and brought it all tlw way to the ten-yard line before being tackled. 
On tlw ensuing drivn, however, the Walsh defense ehangPd the wholn momentum of the 
ARTS & LETTERS CAREER DAY 

ROOMS & TIMES Room 210 II :00 a.m. & 2:00p.m. 
3:00p.m. 
Room 212 II :00 a.m. & 2:00p.m. 
I :00 p.m. & 3:00p.m. 
Room 214 II :00 a.m. & 2:00p.m. 
I 0:00a.m. & I:00 p.m. 
Where: The Center For Continuing Education 
Please plan to Attend! 
WORKSHOP SCHEDULE 
Thursday, October 8, 1998 
WORKSHOP TITLE 
"Computer Adaptive Testing for 
GMAT, GRE, Paper/pencil Testing 
for LSAT, MCAT, etc." 
"Careers in Advertising for the Arts and Letters Student" 
"Marketing Your Liberal Arts Skills" 
"Non-Technical Career Opportunities in the Information Technology Industry" 
"Career Development Through Internships for Students ofColor" 
"Job Explosion in the 90's: DATABASE Marketing" 
game. 

Yanez dropped back to pass and Walsh defender Angela Polsinelli caught the ball for the interception. 
She sprinted all the way down the field for the game's only score. ''I'm normally covering on the line," Polsinelli said. "But today I was right there. I caught the ball and took off 78 yards, it feels good. 
"The defense played excellent. I was very happy that the team came out with such a posi­tive attitude after losing to Pangborn [the night before]." Walsh coach Durran Alexander said. 
Breen-Phillips 7, Cavanaugh 0 

Breen-Phillips quarterback Jenny Choi was finally able to celebrate after the game Monday night. 
The team had been losing close games all season, and Choi's efforts had been lost in the shuffle. 
Monday, her passing came to the forefront as BP defeated Cavanaugh 7-0. 
The first half was a defensive battle. 
The punts seemed more frequent than offen­sive gains. The Cavanaugh defense was impres­sive as they kept Choi and her teammates from threatening. 
The BP defense was equally impressive though. and the two teams went into halftime in a scoreless tie. 
In the second half, BP was able to capitalize on its first offensive drive. 
After a Cavanaugh punt, Choi completed a 35-yard pass to receiver Gina Montenaro. Montenero juggled the ball before regaining control and taking the ball to the 15 before being tackled. 
"I felt like Ollie in the movie Hoosiers," said Montenero. 
On the ensuing drive, Choi connected with receiver Natalie Kelley in the endzone for the game's first score. 
The extra-point attempt was good as Erin West caught the ball in the northeast side of the endzone. Cavanaugh threatened in the dos­ing seconds. 
However. a BP forced a turnover on downs as the dock ticked down to zero. 
"We played a hell of a game," Breen-phillips coach Kevin Shannon said. "It was a very good effort. For the first time, everything came together well." 
"My throw was on, we were focused," Choi said. "We knew we needed to win this game." 
PRESENTER 
Chad Schaedler Kaplan Educational Services 
Terri Burke Starcom Media Services (a division of Leo Burnett) 

Kris Hull Procter and Gamble 
Anne Letzerich Trilogy Software 
Felix J. Martinez In Roads-Chicago 
Sara Thaler Johnson & Quin 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 

Domer Run -The annual Domer Hun is scheduled for Saturday at 11 a.m. 
Race begins at Stepan Center. It is a 3 mile, 6 mile run and 2 mile walk. Pancake breakfast after the race. Register in advance at HecSports. 
It costs $6. Proceeds benefit the Catherine Peachey Foundation, Inc. for Breast Cancer Hesearch. For more informa­tion, please contact RecSports at 631-6100. 
Stepan Court Scheduling -Meeting for the 1998-99 academic year will be held Thursday at 4:30 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune. 
Any organization wishing to reserve time must attend. For more information contact Student Activities at 631-6912. 
• TRACK AND fiELD 

NBA preseason canceled 
Associated Press 
NEWYOHK 
The NBA preseason has been canceled. Regular season games are likely to go next. 
The NBA's perfect record of never missing a regular season game because of a labor dispute is in serious jeopardy after the league canceled the entire pre­season Monday. 
After previously calling ofT the first 24 exhibition games, the NBA canceled the final 90 because of stalled labor negotia­tions with the players. 
"At this point, our teams can­not possibly be ready to play any games before November," deputy commissioner Russ Granik said. "It's sad that we have been unable to have any meaningful negotiations." 
Wiping out the exhibition games will cost between $35 million and $40 million in ticket sales alone, Granik told The New York Times. 
Union leader Billy Hunter said he was not surprised at the own­ers' action. 
"I think they intended it all along," Hunter said. "I believe the league, the owners, and the commissioner decided they were going to play hardball. 
"They've locked us out, they've refused to negotiate, and they've given us a proposal that's ludi­crous." 
Hunter said the owners had submitted a proposal with mechanics they knew would not be acr.eptable to the union. 
"We are not going to accept a bad deal, and we are not going to be intimidated into accepting a bad deal." 
The next collective bargaining session is set for Thursday. The league said decisions concerning possible cancellation of regular 

A CONTINUING LECTURE AND DISCUSSION SERIES: 
• 

-
G\\i 

::.'{ ··1<NOWl£DG£~~ 
PRESENTED BY 

Dean Carolyn Woo 7pm LOG CHAPEL 
SPONSORED BY CAMPlJS MINISTRY AND TilE 
L 

CONGREGATION OF HOLY CROSS 
season games would be made next week. The season is sched­uled to begin Nov. :~. 
When the two sides finally meet again, they will have only a few days to strike a deal that would preserve an 82-game schedule. 
Once a new agreemnnt is reached, it will take at least three weeks to sign players, make trades and hold abbreviat­ed training camps. So unless a deal can be completed a few days after the sides reconvene, there appears to be no way the season can start on its schnduled date. 
The owners made their latest proposal 10 days ago, still ealling for a system with an absolute ceiling on salaries-or a "hard" salary cap. The union said the owners included 16 pages of new demands that weren't dis­cussed in any previous meetings. 
"Our proposals would result in an average player salary of more than $3.1 million and a mini­mum salary for 10-year veterans of $750,000," Granik said Monday. "Unfortunately, the union leadership has been unwilling to give any serious consideration to what we have ofTered." 
Both sides await a ruling from arbitrator John Feeriek on the union's grievance over whether players with guaranteed eon­tracts should be paid during the lockout. Feeriek's decision could come at any time b!~forn Oct. 19. 
The union planned to have players at about a dozen arenas today to try to gain public sup­port for its position. 
Hunter said the idea eame from the union's negotiating committee on a suggestion fmm Washington Wizards forward Juwan Itoward, a membPr of the 
f'XP~llliVI~ hn:1 nl 


--~-­

-~ -~­

:AIL 
VARSITY SHOP 
R~~~ 


"Specializing in Authentic 
-
-........----
RecSports "Champion Student Award" recipients are selected by the Office of Recreational Sports. Honorees are chosen for their involvement in RecSports, including excellence in sportsmanship, leadership and participation. 

As a member of the Notre Dame Boxing Club, senior Emily Schmidt is not a champion of any particular weight class; rather she is a Champion of the entire program. In her third year overseeing the Boxing Club, the Brockport, NY native's responsibilities include coordinating all facets of Bengal Bouts, including promotions and media coverage, publications and posters, equipment and apparel and medical coverage. Active in many campus activities, Emily has served as secretary for Howard Hall Council, and is presently an assistant coordinator for retreat teams through Campus Ministry. Upon graduating in May, the Beta Alpha Psi Accounting Honors Society member will join PricewaterhouseCoopers this August in Chicago. 
Recipients receive <£~ merchandise from the 
..a..& 
VARSITY SHOP 
...-P 
"Specializing in Authentic Notre Dame Sportswear" 
(Joyce Center) 



Look for this award to appear in the Observer every other Wednesday. Students selected receive (£~ 
I"W"~~~~wM.. At'l. .....
merchandise courtesy of \,&..-~......,---........ and the vii'io; with two locations in the Joyce Center. The vir'io; is open Monday-Saturday 9:00am to 5:00pm and Sunday 12:00pm to 4:00pm. (Phone: 631-8560). 

page2~5------~------------------------~------~T~h~e~O~b~se~rv~e~r~·~S_P_C>~R~T~S____I;==ir=i--~~--EB-------~~e;d;n;es;d;a;~;O~c;toib~e~r,7·,~19~9F18 
Soccer 
continued from page 28 
After that near miss. the Irish controlled the rest of thn gamn. Notre Damn out shot IUPUI 18­h owrail and 10-1 in the second half. 
"1 thought we wont out and played hard 
CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

"The Christian's Relationship with Creation ­At Horne in the Web ofLife" 
Wednesday, October 7 6:30PM 102 DeBartolo 

Presentation by Todd Garland & Carol Warren of the Catholic Committee of Appalachia 

Todd Garland is the director of the Catholic Committee of Appalachia and his wife Carol Warren is on the CCA Board. Both live and have committed their lives in struggle for justice in the Appalachia region. Todd and Carol played insunnountable roles in the process and drafting of At Home in the Web ofLife, a pastoral message on sustainable communities in 
Appalachia from the Catholic Bishops of Appalachia. 
Lecture is sponsored by the Appalachia Seminar and the Center for Social Concerns. 

The William and Katherine Devers Program in Dante Studies and 1frican and !lfrican-American Studies present: 
Reception of the li~pe Comedy 


Department ~f'S · 102 Hesburgh Library A recepti';;~ are welcome. 
J=or further information call (219) 631-5610 or visit the Devers Web site at http://www.nd.edt.V-devers 
tonight," assistant coach Mark De Feyter said. 
"IIUPUI] was fired up since they had three starters from the South Bend area but we han­dled them well and got an important victory. A win is a win, the final score doesn't matter." 
Next up for the 22ncl ranked Irish are the 20th­ranked Broncos of Santa Clara. They will then paly a match-up with St. Mary's College of California bc~fore returning to Big East play. 



The Observer/Jeff Hsu Irish freshman Shane Walton scored the only goal yesterday in Notre Dame's victory against the Jaguars on the muddy Alumni Field. 
V-ball 
continued from page 28 
player for the Irish to hit above .300 was freshman Malinda Goralski at .333. 
Illinois State had more kills than the Irish by a margin of 74-57, a key factor in securing the Redbirds the victory. 
Four players for Illinois State were in double digits for the number of kills -Julie Cress, Kendra Haselhorst, Michelle Kutcher and Jen Olson. 
The Redbirds also led the match in aces 10 to three. 
Julie Morgan, the coach for the Hedbirds, was impressed by Olson's efforts from off the bench. 
"We needed to get our mid­dles up early against their block," said Morgan. "Jen's faster at getting up in the air to beat the block. 
"Tonight we had to play quicker and the luxury of our team is having somebody like Jcn who works hard and stays ready to play. Marisa had the conl1dence to give her the ball and Jen saw the holes in thn 
;\Jotu '3ame 1-llm, 'lelevlslon, and 'lheatze pusents 
Tickets are available at Lafortune Student Center Tlc!et Ofll•e MasterCard and Visa orders call 631·8128 
defense and hit them." 
Notre Dame relied on its superior size to outblock the opponent 16-8. However, that was not enough to get the Irish the 'W'. 
Senior captain Lindsay Treadwell did her best to lead the Irish. 
Treadwell, a middle blocker, and sophomore Christi Girton, each had 13 kills. 
Treadwell also added 11 digs and seven blocks, none of which were enough to put the Irish on top. 
Illinois State senior Marisa Brickley set a record for career set assists in the Missouri Valley Conference. She surpassed former Drake star Kelly Hanson with her 59 assists last night. Brickley's total in her career now stands at4,964. 
"I won't know the impact until down the road, but I think when I look back a few years from now, I'll appreciate it," said Brickley. 
Thn next match on tlw Irish schedule will be at Big East foe Conncei.ieut Friday evening. 
Wed., Oct. 7 7:30p.m. 
Thurs., Oct. 8 7:30p.m. 
Fri., Oct. 9 7:30p.m. 
Sat., Oct. 1 0 7:30p.m. 
,..sun., Oct. 11 2:30p.m. 
Playing at 
Washington 
Hall 

t 
Reserved Seats $9 Seniors $8 All Students $6 


Wednesday, October 7, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 26 
• WOMEN's GOLF 
Klee leads Irish for third consecutive match 
Speci.IIto The Observt·r along with an 83 in Saturday's round. Irish by eight. six and five strokes, Michigan State Invitational (236) befon~ 
Sophomores Mary Klein (89-85) and respc~ctively. leading the Irish with a 27th place show­
ANN ARBOH., Mich. Shane Smith (88-86) tied for 39th with Junior Beth Cooper totaled matching ing at the 88-playnr Lady Northern 
.Junior captain Andrea Klee posted her 17 4 totals. rounds of 88 to finish in a tie for 50th, as IntereollPgiate. held at Purdue (246). third straight team-best finish for the The Irish failed to improve on their did sophomore Becca Schloss (87 -89), Kinin has finished with the team's sec­Irish wom!'n's golf team by earning a lOth place standing in the 13-team field. who was competing as an individual ond-best score or tied for the second-lwst share of 13th place among 90 golfers at Notre Dame placed a 339 round on entrant. Froshman Kristen McMurtrie score in all three fall tournaments, with a the Wolverine Invitational. following Sunday for a 687 total. Michigan State (90--89) and junior Brigid Fisher (90-94) 240 at Michigan State and a 251 at llw final-round action Sunday at the par-73 (626) won the team title. outdistancing rounded out the Irish contingent. Lady Northern. COUrSP. Purdue by 26 strokes, while Kent (679). Klee opened the season with a team­Kine leads the Irish with an 80.63 
KlPe carded a final-round 80 to go Toledo (681) and Ohio (682) edged the best 16th placn showing at the 89-playnr stroke average. 
• MEN's GOLF 
Monfort claims best round for Irish in 20 years 
Associated Press 
FHANKLIN, Ind. 

Notre Dame freshman Kyle Monfort three-putted for a bogey on his first hole Tuesday but added five birdies and 12 pars the 
rest  of  the  
way  to  post  
the  best  

round by a Notre Dame golfer in 20 years-four­under 68-in gusty final-
round action of the annual 
Legends of Indiana 
Intercollegiate, held at the par­
72, 7 ,029-yard Legends of 
Indiana Golf Course. 
"I putted a lot better today," Monfort said. "I needed 34 and 36 putts on Monday but only 27 today. I was placing the ball clos­er to the hole and made some adjustment in my putting stance. Going into the final three holes, I felt like I could make three more birdies. It's nice to have done well but we are struggling a little as a team." 
Monfort's strong round-which equals the second-best in record­ed Notre Dame history-helped the inconsistent Irish jump from 14th to eighth in the 18-team field, using a final-round 298 in the play-five/count-four format to finish with a three-round total of 893. 
The Irish conceivably could have made a run at third-place Indiana (886) but failed to get the needed scores from the squad's veteran players. Ball State nipped Notre Dame by a single stroke while Louisville and Penn State finished just three shots higher than the Irish and Kentucky five shots higher. ToiPdo had four golfers in the top six to run away with the team title by 25 strokes. 

Monfort's 68 tied with Arkon's Scott Carvin's first round for best in the tournament and vaulted him from 36th to a share of 1Oth in the 90-golfer lield. with the 217 total equaling the fourth­best 54-hole score in recorded Notre Dame history. Junior JefT Connell tied for 26th at 223 while senior Willie Kent-coming ofT a medalist finish at the Iowa Intercollegiate -tied for 48th at 229 (75-77-77). Irish senior eo­captain Brad Hardin bounced back from a second-round 80 on Monday afternoon to post a final­round 76 and 230 total. Junior co-captain Todd Vernon contin­ued to struggle, !iring a 79 on Tuesday after opening with a 78 and 74 on Monday. 
The last known Notre Dame golfers to record a round of 68 or better in an intercollegiate tour­nament were teammates Dave Knee and Tim Saurs, who did so during the 1977-78 season. Mike O'Connell. Sr. also carded a 68 in 1964-65 and owns the best round in recorded team history, a 64 in 1962-63. Prior to Monfort's 68, the best round by an Irish golfer during the last 20 years was 69-turned in nine times by eight different golfers, including Kent twice and Connell and Vernon once each. 
"We have live really good play­
ers who can put up low scores," 
Monfort said. "It just hasn't 
clicked yet. We could go out next 
week at Louisville and everyone 
could shoot under par. We're a 
really good team but just haven't 
been able to show it." 
Monfort-whose 1998 summer 
highlights included shooting a 
nine-birdie, course-record round 
,,,,g,,, 
A Benefit for the Cath~rine Peachey Fund, Inc. for BreastCt:J.ncer Research 
3 & 6 MILE RUNS, 2 MILE WALK 

4s~i~~~~~;1~!o~ 
. T-SHIRTS/f9~AL~~~HElt~·· ''-' .:"~/·~ 
REGISTER IN APYAN.q~TI!ECSPO~T~ ~· ··tj$6.00 IN ADVANCE.tAND$7.00 DAY OFR'ACE ~ ... 
STUDENT AND STAFF DIVISIONS 


of 63 at his home course Muirfield Country Club-needed just 27 putts Tuesday while hit­ting 18 fairways and eight of nine greens over the final nine holes. which were played on the "Middle Nine" of the 27 -hole course. He opened the day by three-putting the 1st hole on the Creek Nine but broke back even with a tap-in birdie on the par-5, 562-yard 3rd hole. While facing three-club with during the 5th­8th holes, Monfort dropped a two-iron tee shot to within 12 feet of the 192-yard 6th hole hole and sunk the putt to go one­under. 
Monfort's final nine holes included three birdies and three near-misses. lie hit driver and two-iron on the 418-yard 1st hole of the Middle Nine before draining a 20-footer. After miss­ing a short putt on the 2nd hole and lipping out on birdie putts at 3 and 4, he sank birdies putts from 10 and eight feet on the next two holes to move to four­under. 
His only missed green of the Middle Nine came on the 8th hole, when the wind carried his second shot over the small green. But Monfort chipped to within six feet short of the hole, made his par and then two-putted from 20 feet on the final hole to complete the memorable round. 
An impressive rookie season for Monfort has included rounds of 73-84-78/225 at the Air Force Invitational and 76-75-74 at the Iowa Intercollegiate. Monfort's team-leading performanee extends what has been a bal­anced efTort by the Irish this sea­son. 
Hardin and Connell shared for medalist honors at the Campus Championship hllfore Connell paced the Irish at the Air Force Invitational and Kent shot his team-best 216 at the Iowa lntnrcollegiatn. 
.Just 15 strokes sc~parate the five Irish golfers over nine tour­nament rounds, with Kent hold­ing a one-stroke lcmd on Monfort. Connell and Hardin both c:arry a 
74.89 stroke average whilP Vernon is averaging 75.58 (morn than a stroke higher than his team-best 74.59 in 1997-98). 
Kent has counted to the team score in all nine rounds while Connell and llardin have eounted in eight each, Monfort in seven and VPrnon in just five of the nine. 
"Miss a few football games to see the world? It was the best decision of my life." -Laura St. Marie 
Notre Dame Junior 
Information Session: 
TONIGHT-OCTOBER 7 Haggar College Center Room 303 • 7:00 p.m. 
Students discuss curriculum at National University of Ireland, Maynooth, Ireland. Everyone welcome! 
APPLICATIONS DISTRIB 
c)Tte Societ~ Jor Cfluman ~source S\\._anagement & the S\\._anagement Cfu& wou[d Hke to invite ever1one to attend the ... 
Donnelly Lecture Series in 
Participatory Management 
*** 

Linda Moran 
of Achieve Global 
"Keeping Teams on Track" 
*** 

Friday, October 9 12:00-1:15 p.m. 
Jordan Auditorium College of Business Administration 
page 27 The Observer • TODAY Wednesday, October 7, 1998 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF NO DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

... 
-


• Monfert notched the • The Yankees defeat­• Track star Ben best round in men's ed 7-2 in the first game Johnson will race Irish golf in the last 20 of the American against horses and a car years. League championship. for a charity. 
PORTS 

p.26 p. 18 p. 17 
O THE 
page 28 BSERVER Wednesday, October 7, 1998 
• MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish soak Jaguars in slippery overtime victory 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Spans Writer 
The Irish headed into yet 
another overtime game 
Tuesday. but this time the 
team overcame a fired-up 
IUPU I defense to defeat the 
Jaguars 1-0. 

Freshman forward Shane 
Walton fired the rebound 
from a Scott Wells shot past 
Jaguar goalkeeper Armando 
Femia in overtime to give the 
Irish their fifth victory of the 
year. 

The goal was Walton's 
eighth of the season and his 
third game winner. 

"That goal was all Wells," 
Walton said. "I just framed 
the goal and scored on the 
rebound." 

The sloppy field combined 
with superb Jaguar goal­
keeper and South Bend 
nativn Armando Femia kept 
the Irish offensc from finding 
the back of the net in rcgula­
tion. 

"Armando is a grcat goal 
tender," coach Mike 
Berticclli said. "If it weren't .... for him I think we might 
havc had three goals in the 
first half." 

The sloppy field conditions 
greatly aft'ected the play 
throughout thc game. 
Numerous Notre Dame scor­
ing opportunities were 
thwarted by a slipping Irish 
player or a pass that died in 
a puddle. 

"Conditions were bad for 
both teams," Bertin-llli said.

"But our game play suffered the most. When th1~ ball skips a lot, it takes away some of our quickness on attack." 
The Irish best scoring chanco in rogulation came when Walton beat his defender and eluded Femia only to miss an open nct from a tough angle. 
The Irish defense played tough throughout thn game. Avoiding giving up the quiek goal that has plagued the Irish in the last few games, the defense, led by senior co­captain Phil Murphy. grew stronger as thc game wore on. 
After allowing live shots in the first half. the defens1~ allowed only one shot in the second half and overtime combinnd. 
"Conditioning played a big factor in tonight's game," Murphy said. "We haw put a lot of emphasis on fitness this year. I lmlieve that wr, have been better conditiorwd than r,very team we faced this year." 
Tlw .Jaguars brst chance for a goal occurred early in the first half. 
Irish kPeper Greg Velho slipped as lw movPd to block a shot and the ball rico­cheted past him. Senior defenseman David Culler made an excellent athletic play to elear the ball from the empty net just inclws from the end linn. 
see SOCCER I page 25 
• INTERHAll fOOTBAll
• VOllEYBALL 
Phoxes down undefeated Ducks 
Notre Dame falls in 
By NOAH AMSTADTER Sports Writer 
four to Red Birds 
It was a battle of David vs. Goliath Monday night as the 
-
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN said Notre Dame head coach undefeated Phoxns of Sports Writer Debbie Brown. "But, because Pangborn took on the pn~vi­of the youth of our team, we ously winless Ducks of 
Tlw Notre Dame volleyball sometimes aren't consistent. lloward. team's series with Illinois We like to play Illinois State The l'hoxes came into the State followed a familiar trend because they will always chal­game with a defense that had last night, with the home team lenge us and the games arc yet to bP scored upon all sea­corning out on top for the fifth always close." son, while lloward had yet to straight year. It was the truly eorne together as a tPam. Unfortunately first match All that changed as Howard
'BECAUSE OF THE 

for the Irish. between the came up with the biggest the match YOUTH OF OUR two teams in upset of the snason, winning was played at the past seven 6-0.
TEAM, WE SOMETIMES Hedbird contests not to lloward eame out hard from 
AREN'T CONSISTENT.' 

Arena. go the full five the beginning of the game. In 
The Irish games. With the first half it was able to get lost to Illinois the victory, the up the field each drive; tho State in four Redbirds Pangborn offense, howevnr. 
DEBBIE BROWN advanced to

games (15-9. was able to keep the Ducks 
10-15. 15-10, NOTRE DAME HEAD COACH 11 -3 on the from penetrating the endzorw. 15-9). The season and Pangborn also threatened homecourt advantage was Notre Dame dropped to 5-6. offensively. Quarterback .Jill key, with Illinois State attract­Both teams' play was lkPaul connected with rccPiv­ing a crowd of 2,471 to the marked by abysmal hitting er Julie Carbo! often, but the match. percentages, due to the high Phoxes were also trapped 
"It's great to play in front of number of errors. The only so many fans at Illinois State," 
see VOLLEYBALL/ page 25 see FOOTBALL! page 23 

at Arizona State at Boston College 
t~ Saturday, 2:30p.m. ~ Friday, 3 p.m. Hockey vs. Lake Superior State 
SPORTS 
ATA 

Friday, 7 p.m. at Santa Clara at Connecticut ~ Friday, 7 p.m. Friday, 7:30p.m.
GLANCE 










