~----------------------~----­

Thursday, January LS, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No. 70 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPERS RVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
International festival ho:nors university production 
By JESSICA LOGAN 
News Writer 
"Today's Life Choices," a documentary series produced by the University of Notre Dame Productions, has been awarded the Bronze Award for films and video productions on social and econom­ic issues from Worldfest Charleston, an international film and video festival. 
The award was given for the episode "Professions in Peril: Physician Ileal Thyself," which examined the causes and impacts of a decline in the medical profession. Written by Karen Heisler, the episode focused on the erosion of the relationship between physicians and their patients. 
"Today's Life Choices" is a 30-minute series which airs in more than 60 Public Broadcasting System (PBS) markets including Philadelphia, Washington D.C., Indianapolis, Miami, New Orleans, Detroit, and San Francisco. The pro­gram airs locally on WNIT-Ch. 34 every cost of years of education as a major Friday evening at 6 p.m. and every cause. Sunday at 6:30 a.m. on WNDU-Ch. 16. The number of years available to a The program also airs on the cable net-physician to earn income has decreased work Odyssey, which reaches 30 million due to the greater number of years of households nationwide, and it is used by required study, especially for those pur­many class-r--------------"--------, suing special-rooms across the izations. 
country through -Doctors are 
the PBS Adult i subsequently L e a r n i n g faced with the Services. burden of

'/As··.. •• 
"Today's Life L..l repaying loans Choices" is cur-while support­
rt~n~li~t~n;:~!~~ IFE 'CHOICES ~nngd th~~~:!~~; 
atld will air its · '~ · raising a family.
last episode of Challenges For Our 'i'ttnes In order to the thirteen-deal with finan­episode season on Friday, Jan. 23. cia! difficulties, physicians often attempt The award winning episode discussed to see as many patients as possible in some of the reasons for the deterioration the shortest amount of time. of the important relationship between Due to these efforts to increase physi­physician and patients, citing the high cian income, patients are viewing their 
doctors with increasing skepticism. 
Another factor cited in the award-win­ning episode as causing the weakened relationship between the physician and the patient is the increased control given to insurance companies concerning the type of treatment, medication and pro­cedures allowed to patients. Physicians therefore have less freedom and are more limited when determining the type of treatment they can offer. 
In response to the erosion of the physi­cian/patient relationship, "Professions in Peril" suggests that the doctors and patients recognize the problem and work together to aid in the restoration of the rapport that once existed. 
Besides the Bronze Award from Worldfest Charleston, "Today's Life Choices" received the Gabriel Award given by the National Catholic Association for Broadcasters and 
see CH01CES I page 4 

ND engineering professor wins prestigious award 
By TARA CHURIK News Writer 

The American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASMEl has named Mohamed Gad­el-Ilak. professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering, as the 14th Freeman scholar. 
Awarded biennially, award is the highest honor given by the ASME's division of fluids engineering. The recipient delivers the Freeman lecture at the next annual ASME meeting. 
Gad-el-llak received the honor in recognition of his 


work with microdeviees and Gad-ei-Hak microelectromeehanical sys­tems. known as MEMS. He has developed a novel viscous pump suited for MEMS applica­tions. 
"Such pumps are smaller than the diameter of one human hair. and have possible future uses including medical technology enhance­ment !by regulating the flow of medicine within the body!," Gad-el-IIak explained. 
"The University is delighted at this recogni­tion of the scholarly achievements of Professor Gad-el-llak," said University provost Nathan Hatch. "We salute his accomplishments and this fitting recognition." 
In his research. Gad-el-Hak has explored sev­eral tools for measuring turbulent flows of flu­ids. One major technique that he developed includes advancing the diagnostic technique of laser-induced fluorescence now used around the world to create a picture of fluid flow. 
lie has also introduced the concept of target­ed control to reduce drag, enhance lift, and augment mixing in boundary layer flows. Gad­
• el-llak holds two patents: one for a drag-reduc­ing method for airplane and submarine vehi­cles and the other for a lift-control device. "I am very pleased to receive this award, but am humbled and intimidated by my 13 prede­cessors." said Gad-ei-Hak. "All are great mechanical engineers." Gad-cl-Hak joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1986 after leaving Flow Research Company in Seattle where he was a senior research scien­tist and program manager. He received his bachelor of science degree in mechanical engineering from Ain Shams University in Egypt and his doctorate in fluid meehanics from Johns Hopkins University. 
Since receiving this degree, Gad-el-1-Iak has taught and conducted research at the University of Southern California, the 
see AWARD I page 4 
• CONSTRUCTION BiEAT 



RecSport 
By KRIST! KUTSCH 
Assistant News Editor 
With the grand opening of the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center seheduled for Feb. 14, construction crews continue the internal work on the facility. The focus of the next two weeks will be on finishing much of the flooring of the new Rolfs Center. 
Construction crews are currently laying the track. Upon its comple­tion, the racing lanes of the track will be marked. 
The flooring will .also be put down in the soccer facility within the next two weeks. 
All of the floors of the courts are finished, but they still need to be painted for activities such as vol­leyball, basketball and badminton. In addition, many areas still need to be carpeted. 
Shower partitions are currently being installed in the locker rooms. · The delivery of sports equipment will begin next week, and the RecSports offices are scheduled to move to the new facility in the sec­ond week of February. 
The grant to build the new facili­



The Observer/Dan Feighery Construction is almost complete on the new RecSports facility. This facility is scheduled to open for use on Valentine's Day. 
page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Common Sense 
It's January. which 
Laura Petelle
means we're back in 
Assistant News Editor
South Bend, lighting 
Canadian air masses and 
arctic temperatures as we enroll and stumble 
our way through the first week of classes. 
January also means the familiar gripes, grum­
bles, and groans are resurfacing. 
With this in mind, I propose the creation of a 
new ruling body at this University: the Common 
Sense Committee. 
This Committee would be composed entirely 
of people who know how to do things like call 
information out-of-state, put a coat on when it's 
cold outside, and look both ways before cross­
ing the street-those little things that people 
with common sense do so well. 
The University would be requirnd to put any 
ideas to the Common Sense Committee before 
carrying them through, and the Committee 
would have authority to shoot down any idea 
that seems to be lacking in, well, common 
sense. 
For example, when presented with the cur­
rent South Dining Hall renovation, the 
Committee would say the following: 
"First of all, you should have renovated SOH 
before you moved 1000 new students to that 
part of campus. Secondly, it would have been a 
phenominally good idea if you had done the 
renovation over the summer instead of during 
the school year when student<; arc trying to eat 
there!" 
Or, when presented with the idea of moving 
campus media to the basement of the same 
SDII, the Common Sense Committe would have 
responded, "Well, I understand your need for 
space for the clubs, but moving three of the 
largest and most active campus organizations 
to the basement of South Dining Hall is not the 
best idea you've ever had. Taking campus 
media out of LaFortune distances them from 
the student body and moving them to South 
Dining II all takes them out of the center of 
campus. Besides, everything they own is going 
to smell like the dining hall and they won't be 
able to eat quarter dogs all night." 
Or, while touring O'Shaugnessy, the Common 
Sense Committee would immediately notice the 
da.-;sroom overcrowding and the complete lack 
of clocks in the classrooms. The Committee 
might then suggest moving the larger classes 
(you know, the ones with 100 students in 204 
O'Shag where the students in the back can't 
hear and you have to trip over 15 people to bat­
tle your way to a desk) to other larger rooms. 
They might even be moved to suggest time­
telling devices in the classrooms. 
The Common Sense Committee might also 
wonder aloud why some of the University's top 
professors are exiled to the far corners of cam­
pus with ollices in the llesburgh Center. 
It also might occur to the Common Sense 
Committee to wonder why Notre Dame has six 
sports buildings (the stadium, the JACC, the 
Hock, Loftus. the new Holt's HecSports Center, 
and th!l alleged Eck Tennis Pavillion which I 
have never seen) but only Washington llall for 
the theater performances-certainly not the 
most modern and versatile of stages. 
Countless other things might have been han­
dled a little bit differently: the Spirit of Inclusion 
letter, for example, or the continuing elimina­
tion of soda! space in LaFortune to make room 
for Anthony Travel and the lluddln Mart. 
Any student could give you an nxhaustivc list 
of' his or lwr gripes -and how thn University 
Sl IOULD have done it bPtl!~r. 
All it takes. ladies and gentlemen, is a little 
common sense. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF 
News Viewpoing Anne Marie Mattingly Kelly Brooks Laura Perelle 
Graphics 
Anne Hosinski 
Tom Roland 
Sports 
Production 
Anthony Bianco 
Mark DeBoy 
Accnet 
Lab Tech 
Andrea Jordan 
Meg Kroener 
Kristin Doyle 
The Oh>erver {USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday ext:ept during exam and vacation period!>. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Thursday, January 15, 1998
The Observer • INSIDE 



Dome 
Compiled from U.Wire reports 

Student drug user at Princeton relays experiences 
PRINCETON N.J. 
Administrators at Princeton concen­trate their drug-related disciplinary efforts on hard-core users, but while they are concerned about casual users, in some ways, they know kids will be kids. 
"Experimentation is something that students do," Dean of Student Life Janina Montero said. "But one hopes that they do it very carefully and very infrequently -it's different from fre­quent usage, and though it concerns me more if it is done on campus, fre­quent use concerns me regardless of where it is going on." 
"Frank" is a junior who uses acid often and cocaine occasionally, but he said he "stopped smoking pot like I used to all the time because it's dumb." 
He began using drugs in high school and was surprised to find himself among what he perceived as "such a small minority" at Princeton. 


"Princeton is abnormal as a college because so few people use drugs or know about anyone using drugs," he said, "and at our age you're supposed to do drugs and have new experi­ences." Frank says that he buys his drugs "from a guy on campus, a girl at Hutgers or the townies," and "never feels like I'd get into trouble on campus, but I would be petrified in town." 
• MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY 

Search for missing student continues 
EAST LANSING, Mich. 
Despite air and aquatic missions to the Red Cedar River, an army of volunteers circulating posters while scouring campus and surrounding local cities, a 14-day search for a former MSU student continues to baffle police. Friends and family remain hopeful that Ryan Getz, who disappeared New Year's Eve, will be found soon, but his father said each passing day gets tougher. Getz, originally from Lapeer, was reported missing when he didn't show up for his parents' New Year's Day din­ner. He was last seen when he left a party at Cedar Village Apartments on New Year's Eve between 10:30 
p.m. and 11 p.m., said East Lansing police Lt. Louis Muhn. Police plan to have more divers search the river when water levels are low enough. They have already used dogs, helicopters and divers to search along the Red Cedar River. A $5,000 reward is being offered to aid in finding Hyan. 
• UNIVERSITY OF fLORIDA 

President in hot water over comment 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. 
An offhand racial comment President John Lombardi made during a private party at his home Dec. 16 has come back to haunt him. He now is struggling to explain just what he meant when he called newly-elected State University System Chancellor Adam Herbert an "Oreo." Lombardi, who said he found out a few days ago the com­ment could become a public issue, said he used the term "to signify someone who's black who can operate in the white world." "He's managed to deal with issues of race and ethnicity in a complex society, and he's done it well," Lombardi, 55, said Tuesday, one day after sending Herbert a formal letter of apology. "Unfortunately, the word also carries some not-so-good meanings. I just picked the wrong shorthand. It was a private party, and you say stupid things in private. I just kicked myself, as I do when I say something stupid, and vowed not to do it again," Lombardi continued. Herbert, 54, last week was named the first black chancellor of the Florida SUS. 
These experiences with "hard-core" drugs that Frank and, according to the 'Prince' survey, only a few other students have, are what Montero and other administrators who create and enforce University drug policies are afraid of. 
These administrators aim to erase drugs from campus completely. In some ways, students may be less aware of Princeton's drug scene than administrators. 
The assumption among Princeton go-getters is that "everyone is too worried their career will be ruined because they inhaled," said one junior. 
Just as Princetonians take pride in being above-average students, they may also assume they arc below aver­age when it comes to drugs. 
However, according to the poll, they arc nearly in line with national aver­ages for drug use. 

• INDIANA UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA 
Student dies of alcohol poisioning 
SLIPPEHY HOCK, Penn. 

Garrett Bozylinsky is the second young person to have 
died in the Indiana, Penn., area after having partied too 
much the night before. Bozylinsky, 21, the son of a former 
Indiana University of Pennsylvania administrator, was 
found dead in his apartment Sunday afternoon, the appar­
ent victim of what Indiana police Chief Honald Crytzer 
called a "Marilyn Monroe cocktail" -a lethal combination 
of alcohol and depressants. According to an !UP 
spokesperson, Bozylinsky was enrolled at IUP during the 
1996-97 academic year, but was not currcntfy a student at 
the university located an hour northeast of Pittsburgh. 
This latest tragedy at IUP follows in the wake of the death 
of freshman Lorraine Hanna, who died New Year's Day of 
alcoholic intoxication. Hanna, 18, of Butler County, had a 
blood alcohol level of 0.429 -the second-highest level 
Indiana County Coroner Thomas Streams has seen in 25 
~~. . 
• UNIVERSITY OF UTAH 
Software CEO suggests chips in rings 
PROVO, Utah 

Scott McNealy wants the Java programming language to 
be in everything, including college rings. Wearing a ring 
with an embedded Java chip, the Sun Microsystems CEO 
predicted that colleges would assign similar rings to enter­
ing freshmen. The smart rings would be used for every­
thing from library check-outs to dorm access to verifica­
tion at testing centers. The rings would work from a dis­
tance of ten inches so they could be scanned as students 
entered dining halls. For added security, a photograph of 
the authorized wearer would appear on a networked com­
puter handling financial transactions or grade reports. 
The ring could be cancelled immediatoly if lost or stolen. 
"In just three years, Java has become more popular than 
any other language or programming interface," McNealy 
said. Developed by Sun Microsystems, .Java is a program­
ming language that runs on any computer system. In 
Switzerland people pay for lift tickets with a Java chip. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeathcr'"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
H L 
Thursday ~ 32 26 Friday Q. 30 19 
·:· ·:· 
Saturday Q 30 15 
.·=·· .;: 
Sunday< ~28 10 
/


Monday b22 9 
(J....\t"'''···,~/-· -:.:-" 
q_~_Q_p~Qq ~ u 

• NATIONAl WEATHER 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Thursday, Jan. 15. 
Lines separate high temperature zones tor the day. 
Hessui. @ 5SJ [Til 0 ~ Q 1:)-eJ. U 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Atlanta 46 46 Dallas 49 24 Miami 84 74 Baltimore 34 23 Denver 46 32 New York 34 14 Baton Rouge 56 53 Honolulu 82 66 Phoenix 68 44 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries si1oW Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 

Chicago 25 18 Indianapolis 34 26 South Bend 32 26 
V1a Assoc1ated Press GraphicsNet 

Columbus 35 31 Los Angeles 63 48 St. Louis 35 24 

Thursday, January 15, 1998 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
Anything to beat the cold 

U.S.. Labor Secretary acc·used of corruption 

The Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The Justice Department is investigating Labor Secretary Alexis Herman over allega­tions of corruption in office, law enforcement officials said Wedneday night. 
The probe is being conduct­ed by the department's public integrity section and FBI agents assigned to the depart­ment's campaign finance task force, the officials said, requesting anonymity. But no connection to campaign financing could be learned immediately. . 
ABC News, which first reported the story, said the allegations concerned Herman accepting payments for using her influence while she was a White House aide during 1994-96, including helping someone obtain a Federal Communications Commission license for a satellite tele­phone system. 
"The allegations against Secretary Herman are just not true," her attorney, Neil Egglestrom. said Wednesday night. "We have not been con­tacted by the Justice Department. If we are, we'll provide whatever information they need to help put this matter to rest." 
At the White House, press secretary Mike McCurry said, "The president continues to have full faith and confidence in Secretary of Labor Alexis Herman. We are confident the Justice Department will con­duct its review of the facts and make its decision based on the law." 
Law enforcement officials said the Herman case was in a 90-day preliminary inquiry under the independent coun­sel act and the inquiry was due to end next month. At that time, the Justice inquiry would either be extended for 60 days, dropped for lack of evidence or, if further investi­gation was needed, Attorney 


Ma1r1tengas .e R4~cicles el 
Now is the time to applq! 
summers before graduation. Minimum 3.0 GPA required. 
Visit the I.F. Booth at the Job Fair on the afternoon of January 22. ..,.. Interview Dote: January 23, 1998 
For more information, contact your Career Services Center or contact Ronoelle Carlson at rcorlsonif@ool.com or call (630) 466-8389. 
The International Foundation of Employee Benefit Plans is anonprofit educational organization. 
l.f. INTERNS PROGRAM 
International Foundation ..fili::;; 
OF EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS ~ 


General Janet Reno would ask a special court to select an independent counsel to do a full investigation. 
The Justice Department's campaign finance task force is also looking into Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt's role in the rejection of a license for an Indian casino that was opposed by other tribes who contributed $300,000 to Democrats. 
The Babbitt inquiry must end by Feb. 11, and officials have said it is the mostly like­ly to be referred to an inde­pendent counsel out of the scores of allegations, includ­ing some against Clinton him­self, that the campaign finance task force has probed. 
ABC said the allegations against Herman were brought to the government last October by Laurent Yene, a 42-year-old businessman from Africa. 
Yene told investigators and ABC that he and Herman and one of Herman's close friends began a secret arrangement to use her White House influ­ence. Herman, then an assis­tant to President Clinton and head of the White House's public liaison office, was to get 10 percent of the consult­ing fees, ABC said. 
Yene said he gave Herman one payment in cash in an envelope he took to her home. He told ABC he was unaware that the arrangement was ille­gal. 
Allegations that Herman had used her influence to obtain an FCC license for a former business associate surfaced last year during a prolonged confirmation battle. No evi­dence of wrongdoing was uncovered then. 
The Herman friend allegedly involved in the scheme and the client seeking an FCC license called Yene a liar who was seeking revenge because of a falling out over business and personal matters, ABC reported. 
'ScreaiD' Inspires Inorder 
The Associated Press 
LYNWOOD, Calif. 
They couldn't afford to rent a Grim Reaper mask or voice distortion box, but a teen-ager told deputies that he and his cousin killed his mother anyway after seeing the 'Scream' slasher movies, authorities said Wednesday. 
Gina Castillo, 37, man­aged to dial 911 before she collapsed about 2:45 p.m. Tuesday inside her apart­ment, said Sgt. Bob Stoneman of the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department. She was dead on arrival at a hospital. 
The woman's 16-year-old son and her 14-year-old nephew were arrested and booked Tuesday for inves­tigation of murder. 
Many details about the killing were withheld by detectives. 
Another nephew. a 17­year-old, was arrested Wednesday. He allegedly helped plan the killing but may not have been there when it occurred, police said. 
The youths were held without bail at Los Padrinos Juvenile Hall, where they allegedly told detectives they were inspired to kill the woman after watching the 'Scream' horror movies. 
"The two juveniles said they committed this crime based on information they got watching two movies ­'Scream' and 'Scream 2,"' the sergeant said. The movies feature killers in grotesque masks stalking and killing college stu­dents. 
The teen-agers, whose names weren't released because of their ages, apparently sought out a Grim Reaper mask and a voice distortion box similar to the ones used in the two horror movies, Stoneman said. 
"They were planning on committing this crime by renting some sort of cos­tume and some sort of voice box that apparently is available," the sergeant said. 
But the youths couldn't afford the items "so they committed the murder without them," Stoneman said. At least one knife was recovered, he said. refus­ing to provide any details about the number of stab wounds. 
BOOK SEARCH 
• 
Used, rare and out-of-print books 

• 
Initial cost of $2.00 

• 
Nationally • circulated ad 

• 
Success rate of 50% 

• 
Time Required: 2 months 


ERASMUS BOOKS 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 
~ --~ 

page 4 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, January 15, 1998 

Award 
continued from page I 
University of Virginia, 
Institute National 
Polytechnique de Grenoble 
and Universite de Poitiers. 
Currently, he serves as asso­ciate editor for Applied Mechanics Heviews and as contributing editor for McGraw-Hill's "Yearbook of Science and Technology," Springer-Verlag's "Lecture Notes in Engineering" and "Lecture Notes in Physics," and CHC Press Inc.'s "Handbook of Fluid Dynamics." 
Gad-el-llak is also a fellow of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, a life­long member of the American Physical Society, an associate follow of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics and a research fellow of the American Biographical Institute. 
lie has also been inducted as an eminent engineer in Tau Beta Pi, an honorary member of Sigma Gamma Tau and Pi Tau Sigma, and a member-at­large of Sigma Xi. 
Gad-el-llak has worked with the Departments of Defense and Energy, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and the National Science Foundation as a member of several advi­sory panels. 
Gad-el-llak also served as a consultant for the govern­ments of Egypt, France, Germany, and the United States, for the United Nations and for numerous industrial organizations. 
lie is the author of the book "Topics in Flow Control" and has edited books including "Frontiers in Experimental Fluid Mechanics" and "Advances in Fluid Mechanics Measurements." 
In addition, he served as associate editor for the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics .Journal. 
Gad-el-llak has published more than 260 scientific arti­eles and presented nearly 160 invited lectures in the basic as well as applied research areas of isotropic turbulence, boundary layer flows, unsteady aerodynamics. bio­logical !lows. non-Newtonian fluids. hard and soft comput­ing including genetic algo­rithms. and flow control. 

Choices 
continued from page 1 
Communicators in 1989 and again in 1995 for "outstanding artistic achievement in a televi­sion program or series which entertains and enriches with a true vision of humanity and a true vision of life." The pro­gram won a silver medal from the Council for the Advancement and Support of Education in 1990, and finalist awards from the New York Festivals Awards in 1991, 1992, and 1995. 
Guests featured on "Today's Life Choices" in past years include Vice President AI Gore, Attorney General Janet Heno, actor and activist Martin Sheen, South African leader Nelson Mandela, and Olympic gold medalist Bonnie Blair. 
"Topics for the episodes of 'Today's Life Choices' are selected by a university com­mittee, and the show is then produced based on the commit­tee's recommendation of a topic," production coordinator and producer Michael Schmiedeler explained. 
"The staff also consults a wide variety of University fac­ulty for information about top­ics discussed on the show," Sehmiedeler added. The show is produced on location throughout the world. 


Iraq 
continued from page 5 
This time, Iraq wants Hitter's team re-formed. It says the team, consisting or' nine Americans, five Britons, a Hussian and an Australian, is heavily tilted toward the United States and Briton. Butler plans to take a Canadian, Italian and, for the first time, a Chinese official with him to the talks. 
Last month, Butler was accompanied by a Frenchman and a Russian when he met last with the Iraqis. 
The United Nations has sought over the years to broad­en the national makeup of its inspection team. 
But U.N. spokesman Fred Eckhard said Americans and Britons were strongly repre­sented because few other countries have large numbers of weapons experts f1uent in English, the working language of the commission. 


SPW Invitations will be sent out 
on Monday,]anuary 19for all sophomores. Ifyour address has been changed or you do not want an invitation sent to your home, please contact Elaine in Student Activities at x4562 or Erin at x5194ASAP. 
Thanks, SPW Committee 
• STUDENT SENATE 

New fashion statement? 


Communities of Faith Sharing and Scripture Study 
You are invited to be part of Faith Sharing Groups in your Residence Halls. 
Information and applications are in your Halls and Campus Ministry (631-5242) 
Rally Day: Saturday, January 17 12 Noon-3:00P.M. LaFortune Ballroom"' (3MPUS 

MINISTRY 



• WORlD NEWS BRIEFS World War II spy group discovered in England 
LONDON, England 

The Soviet Union controlled a third, previ­ously undisclosed spy ring in Britain that was disbanded two years into World War II, the Daily Telegraph reported Wednesday. The "Green" ring, made up of Britons who had fought with the Communists during the Spanish Civil War, was run by Soviet military intelligence, the GRU, the newspaper said. Until now. only two KGB-controlled spy groups in Britain, the Cambridge and Oxford rings, had been publicly known. The Daily Telegraph said its information about the Green ring came from KGB files released exclusively to the newspaper. The ring was established by a printer. Oliver Green. lie was recruited by Soviet intelligence while fighting for the International Brigade, volun­teers who fought under Communist leader­ship in the 1936-39 Spanish Civil War between fascists and socialists. Upon return to Britain, Green began wooing Britons to pass on political secrets to the GRU. Green operated from his apartment in Edgware, north London, the Telegraph said. The ring, which included members of the armed forces and an unidentified government oflicial, was less successful than the two controlled by the KGB. the newspaper said. Britain's internal secret service, MIS, exposed the ring after Green was discovered forging gasoline coupons so he could drive around the coun­try to meet with his agents. 
Vatican and PLO discuss holy sites in the West Bank 
JERUSALEM 

The Vatican and the PLO have decided to negotiate an agreement on the status of Homan Catholic holy sites and churches in the West Bank, Gaza Strip and east Jerusalem. The decision to form a committee to deal with the issue was reached by the Vatican's foreign minister, Jean-Louis Tauran, and the Palestine Liberation Organization's Vatican representative, Afif Safieh. The panel will look into the "status, rights, obligations and privileges of the Catholic church in Palestinian territories," Safieh said Wednesday. The negotiations will also deal with Roman Catholic properties in east Jerusalem, where the Palestinians hope to establish a future capital, Safieh said in a telephone interview from London. Israel cap­tured east Jerusalem from Jordan in the 1967 Middle East war and later annexed into its capital. However, the Holy Sec and most countries in the world don't recognize Israel's annexation. Despite the Vatican's position, it reached an agreement with Israel on Nov. 10 to place Catholic church proper­ties in east Jerusalem under Israeli jurisdic­tion, raising concern among the Palestinians. "It wanted to guarantee the church's rights during the era of Israeli control." 
Dow 
]ONES 
Nasdaq: 
1548.76 
+7.13

7.2 
NYSE: 
501.35 
+3.60 
S&P 500: 

I I 
957.94

+52.56 
+5.82 

BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
CUMI!il~X IJCI:s;EB 'li1 fi;;IO~UIE 111Ait!l I!BIC~ 
VITRAN CORP INC. VTNAI' 170.59 +3.625 5.75 EDISON I\ ROW~ EDBRW 115.39 +l.B70 3.50 COITON VAI.LEY "KTN 35.48 +0.687 2.625 ZENITH ELECIRIC ZE 33.71 +1.875 7.44 DYNATEC INTL DYNX 33.3.! +1.1:\75 7.50 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 

SPLASH TECH SPLII 43.42 -10.312 13.44 LECROY CORP LCRY 35.66 ·11.50 20.75 ACF.CO\f\f ACEC 35.37 -3.625 6.62 IIOVITRON NOV! 32.00 ·1.000 2.12 NEOPIIAR~ NPRMW 26.92 ·0.875 2.38 
ASSOCIA TED PRESS 
UNITED NATIONS 
A day before the chief U.N. weapons inspector leaves for Baghdad, the Security Council on Wednesday deplored Iraq's refusal to allow inspections by an American-led team, brand­ing the action an "unaccept­able" violation of U.N. orders. 
Russia, France and China were growing frustrated by Baghdad's continued refusal to cooperate fully with U.N. inspectors. 
However, Russia quickly followed up its vote by objecting to the use of mili­tary force against Iraq. 
From our point of view, all issues concerning the work of the (U.N.) inspectors ... should be settled through talks," Foreign Ministry spokesman Valery Nestrushkin told the Interfax news agency in Moscow. 
Wednesday's unanimous council statement was sought by the United States as a show of support for chief U.N. inspector Richard Butler, who leaves for Baghdad late Thursday to demand unrestricted access to all suspected weapons sites. 
U.S. Ambassador Bill Richardson hailed the coun­cil action and said the Clinton administration was anxious to exhaust all diplo­matic avenues to resolve the crisis with Iraq. 
"My optimism is waning considerably," Richardson said. "I think the world com­munity's optimism is waning too. Patience is wearing thin. But we should not abandon diplomacy." 
The statement said the 


,... 
~ 
u 
AFP. Photo 

An Iraqi soldier blocked the passage of U.N. cars, yesterday in Baghdad. 
council "deplores" Iraq's moves to bar American Scott Ritter and his team from conducting inspections and "Iraq's subsequent failure to fulfill its obligations to pro­vide the (inspectors) with full, unconditional and immediate access to all sites." 
Ritter, whose team is entrusted with checking Iraqi ministries and other government sites, was blocked for a second day Wednesday when the gov­ernment did not send required Iraqi escorts. 
Iraq's deputy prime minis­ter, Tariq Aziz, said Ritter would not be allowed to work because there were too many "Anglo-Saxons" on his inspection team. 
However, British Ambas­sador John Weston said Butler gave the council details on the composition of the U.N. teams and they refute Iraq's claim it was dominated by Britons and Americans. 
To counter assertions of national bias, Butler said he had accepted three Chinese inspectors to join the team in Baghdad. China had repeat­edly refused U.N. offers to nominate experts to join the inspection team. 
Wednesday's council state­ment followed an appeal Monday by President Clinton for "strong and appropriate action" against Iraq. 
Iraq accuses the United States and Britain of trying to prolong the disarmament 
······•····•.... mosquito: Because floods have destroyed huts. people are sleeping beneath trees w~ere.they are e'7SY preyfor swanns of mosquitoes. "\Ve'~e trying to get p~o­·. to cover up; .to -use .•. .. ·. e~ts ~~d ...togive ···.•··· • ·• . bed .p.ets ~··•Martin 
· ... .· The WHO ~lso is urg­.ing tlw.t~~~kanhnal$··notbe slaughtered. The virus is ·(;Qncentr(l.tec:J.·!p th.e.blf.lpd,wh-ich splatters Widely when an aniJilal'sheck.is slashed, Drtrplets ·that are inhaled .or fall on a!} open ·· · e~J;sily infeqt .a said. · 
process and, therefore, the lifting of harsh U.N. econom­ic sanctions imposed when Iraq invaded Kuwait in 1990, leading to the Persian Gulf War. 
The Security Council has said the sanctions will not be lifted until the U.N. Special Commission on Iraq certifies the nation has eliminated its weapons of mass destruc­tion. 
Last fall, Iraq blocked inspectors from entering sites and then evicted American inspectors from the country, accusing them of bias. They later were allowed back, but only after inspections stopped for three weeks. 
. sthe 
··how to elVes from 
•virus, wliiCh is harbored y the aedes 

page 6 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, January 15, 1998 
MeiDos reveal intent to target teens 
R.J Reynolds used Joe Camel to lure young smokers 
Associaled Press 
WASIIINGTON 

Secret H.J. Hcynolds memos show the No. 2 cigarettn maker targeted tnen-agers as young as 13 in a plan to steal its competitors' t smokers -and even created a special brand aimed at boys. 
Code-named Project LF, a 1987 memo stamped "HJH 
Seeret" says the Joe Camel eompany created a "wider-circum­ference nonmenthol cigarette lar­gntnd at young adult main smoker (primarily 13-24-year-old male Marlboro smokers)." Camel Widns eventually were sold. Other IUH papers illustrate that the highly popular Joe Camel cam­paign, the hip eartoon character that peddled the Camel brand until last year, targeted teens despite the company's rep11atcd denials. A 1973 marketing memo says that to help lure "younger smok­nrs" away from Philip Morris' Marlboros. the leading teen brand. "eomi<: strip type eopy might get a much higher readership among younger people than any other type or copy." The document defined "younger smokers" as those ages 14 to 24. Shortly thereafter, the Joe Camel cartoon debuted in France. lie was brought to the United States in 1987, and Camel rose to become the No. 2 brand among teens. HJH said Wednesday that the papers were "cherry-picked" to be taknn out of contnxt. HJH said it had other papers that show the Camel Wides memo actually "con­tains a typographical error" and <>hould read ages 18 to 24, not 13 
to 24. 
"Our documents rel'lect the 
social attitudes of the times in 
which they were created. And 
while attitudes toward smoking 
have changed over the past several 
decades, Reynolds Tobacco Co.'s 
position and policy have remained 
constant: that smoking is a choice 
for adults" and minors were never 
targeted, said a company state­
ment. 
RJH provided the papers to California attorneys as part of a $10 million settlement of lawsuits brought by San Francisco and other communities that accused Joe Camel of targeting teens. 
In releasing the papers WednP.sday, Hcp. Henry Waxman, D-Calif., said he will urge Attorney GP.neral Janet Reno to investigate them for evidence of perjury because the documents appear to contradict RJH executives' testimo­ny in congressional hearings. 
HJH insisted it does not market to teens, did not design ads to attract teens and never even sur­veyed anyone under age 18 to determine smoking habits. 
The documents outline ads and marketing campaigns specifically designed for teen-agers and con­tain a poll of 11,000 14-to 17­year-olds that researched teen smoking habits. 
The papers also complicate con­gressional consideration of the pro­posed national tobacco deal, Waxman said. 
This month, lawmakers will begin debating a settlement that would end state lawsuits against tobacco companies-and forbid most smokers' own lawsuits-if the industry pays $368 billion over 25 years and curbs marketing prac­tices. 
"Our worst fears about what the tobacco companies might be doing to get kids to smoke were justi­fied," Waxman said. 
"These documents are going to make it hard to convince the American people we ought to be passing a law to forgive the tobacco companies for their past practices, as reprehensible as these docu­ments show they were." 

The documents make "clear the 
extent to which RJR and other 
tobacco companies arc targeting 
our kids," said San Francisco City 
Attorney Louise Renne. 
"If you can get a young person to 
smoke before they're 18, they are 
then hooked for life." 

Critics' first attempt to question 
RJR about the papers could come 
this month. 

Rep. Thomas Bliley, H-Va., wrote the nation's top five tobacco execu­tives Wednesday to request that they attend a Jan. 29 congressional hearing on the tobacco deal. 
Already released documents have uncovered industry attempts to tar­get minors to take up smoking ­because studies show people who don't begin smoking before 18 probably never will. H.JH competi­tor Liggett Group last year even admitted the industry targets teens. 
But the new papers provide the first detailed look at R.JR, showing a company worried about future profits because its chief competi­tors seemed to have locked up the youngest smokers. 
"This young adult smoker, the 14-24 age group ... represents tomorrow's cigarette business," says a 197 4 RJR marketing presen­tation. 
But Philip Morris and Brown & Williamson had more smokers that age, the paper goes on to say, which "suggests slow market share erosion for us in the years to come unless the situation is corrected." 
So RJH developed a marketing plan that its top officials hoped would help, as evidenced in a 1980 memo by future compan_y chief executive G.II. Long: 
"Hopefully, our various planned activities that will be be imple­mented this fall will aid in some way in reducing or correcting these trends," he wrote. 
The strategy included "a direct advertising appeal to the younger habits," with "more true-to-life young adult situations." 
The ads were to run in maga­zines, such as Sports Illustrated, that arc widely read by teens. 
-~First Lady gives 
fifth testimony 
Associated Press 
< WASHINGTON 
Prosecutors questioned Hillary Hodham Clinton at the White House Wednesday about the gathering of FBI background filos on past Republic_an political appointees -her fifth session of ..---------, sworn testimony in the Whitewater investigation. 
The questioning took just 10 minutes. 
Mrs. Clinton said she knew noth­
ing about any such collection of 
files by the office of White House 
security, according to lawyers and 
1-A-""---_Jt....<lllliit.il 
other people familiar with hor tes-Clinton 
timony. 
She also maintained that she was unaware of how the White House came to hire Craig Livingstone, the aide who ran the security office, said those sources, speaking only on condi­tion of anonymity. 
Whitewater prosecutor Kenneth Starr questioned the first lady under oath in the Treaty Hoom on the second floor of lhe White House family residence, where investigators have interviewed tlw Clintons several times in recent years. 
"As the president has previously announced, he and Mrs. Clinton are cooperating fully with the independent counsel," said presidential spokesman Mike McCurry, reading a statement by White House counsel Charles F.C. Huff. "Mrs. Clinton voluntarily agreed when an interview was requested." 
Starr's office declined to comm!:'nt. 
Questions about Mrs. Clinton's role in the FBI files controversy arose when an old FBI report came to light in 1996. 
It quoted White House counsel Bernard Nussbaum as telling an FBI agent, in 1993, that Mrs. Clinton "highly recommended" Livingstone for his job. 
Nussbaum had testilied the previous month to a House committee that he didn't know who hired Livingstone. Nussbaum denies making the state­ment to tho FBI. 
Republicans suggosted that getting the back­ground files -some on high ranking Heagan and Bush administration officials -was done to com­pile an enemies' list. The White House says it was nothing more than a bureaucratic blunder. 
Livingstone has said he knew nothing about the gathering or the FBI liles by subordinate Anthony Marceca. However, an aide in Livingstone's office said she told him that Marceca was gathering files on former White House aides. 
Someone
•

mtsses you. 
0 

1-800-COLLECT ® 

Thursday, January 15, 1998 
U.S. astronaut examines Mir 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 

After more than three months on the Mir, American astronaut David Wolf headed into open space for the first time Thursday to examine the Russian space station's outer hull for possible leaks. 
Wolf and Russian f1ight com­mander Anatoly Solovyov began their spacewalk just after midnight Wednesday 
(4:12 p.m. Wednesday EST) with the Mir high over the southeastern Pacific. 
After a relatively uneventful three hours and 52 minutes, they sealed the hatch back up again. 
Wolf had the best partner he could ask for. Solovyov is the most experienced spacewalker in history, having logged about 7 4 hours in 15 previous space­walks, including six since he arrived on the Mir in August. 
When Wolf was told that the mission was almost over and it 
Got News? 

Call The Observer News Department at 
I-53 23 

INTERNATIONAL WORKING OPPORTUNITY 

was time to head inside, he said he didn't want to go back. Wolf asked Solovyov, who was filming the walk, to make sure he was photographed. 
"Take a picture of me," he said. "This is a big moment in life." 
Ground controllers gave Wolf more detailed instructions than usual at the start of Thursday's mission. 
Wolf. who arrived in September, has remained inside the station during the spacewalks by his Russian col­leagues Solovyov and Pavel Vinogradov. In most instances, he was in the Mir's escape capsule to assist in case of an evacuation, and he filmed his fellow cosmonauts through a window. 
This time, Wolf and Solovyov used an American-made moni­toring device to examine the Mir's outer hull in at least two separate places. Signs of a leaky hatch appeared in footage filmed by Solovyov and beamed back live. 

Wolf and Solovyov also con­ducted an experiment aimed at helping to gauge the degree of aging of equipment in space. 
Observers at Mission Control saw the Russian's smiling face with the brilliant blue of the Atlantic Ocean in the back­ground. 
Told a few minutes later that Mir was above Africa, Solovyov joked: "Yeah, I saw zebras running around." 
The 12-year-old Mir, which was expected to last only five years, suffered a series of acci­dents last year. The current crew has brought the Mir back to nearly full power and there have been no serious break­downs recently. 
However, a new crew that will be in place by the end of the month will still face a num­ber of repair jobs. 
They will try to lind and seal the holes in the station's Spektr module, which was punctured during a June 25 collision with a cargo ship. The new team will also attempt to fix an air leak from the Mir's exit hatch. 
Neither problem is consid­ered serious, but the leak from the hatch on the Kvant-2 mod­ule creates some inconve­nience for the crew during spacewalks. 
During a spacewalk last Friday, Solovyov and Vinogradov found that one of the hat•ch locks was broken. Because of more pressing tasks aboard the station, the repairs have been left for the next crew. 
Ch.ild locked in daycare center 
Associated Press her crib at the center after all the staff and other children FAIRFAX, Va. left for the day. Her mother, 
A day care center allowed to 
operate while it appeals the loss of its license left a toddler locked inside, forcing her mother to break a window to rescue her. The state depart­ment of Social Services on Wednesday asked the attorney general to seek a court order shutting down the ABC Children's Learning Center. The center lost its state license in June because of several lapses in supervision. 
On Jan. 8, 14-month-old 
risk to children," said Jane 
"Expressionistic, elastic choreography, performed with wholehearted commitment and technical polish." 
-The Boston Globe 


O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE
o 

Saturday o January 24 o 8pm 
Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's College Box Office in O'Laughlin Auditorium, open 9 a.m.-5 p.m., Monday-Friday. Credit card orders by phone: 
T~ket.a~:.= MOR£AD 
7X'Kiif~ ticket centers ~EJfrrE~ 

• • • • FOR THE ARTS 
Lisa Fajardo, said she arrived to pick up Savannah 15 min­utes before the center was to close and found the doors locked. 
She told police she broke a 
window  with  her  fist  and  
crawled insid e  to  get  her  
daughter.  

The center's director admit­ted in a letter to parents that the child was left alone and called it an accident. 
"Previously there had been a pattern over time of serious Brown, operations director at social services. 
"The center has been assur­ing us they are making improvement to the program," he said. "To then see this type of action says to us that we need to take additional steps to assure children are safe." 
The ABC center was previ­ously cited for allowing a 4­yea:r-old to get into an unlocked car; failing to call 911 after a child had a seizure; and permitting young children to play the video game Mortal Kombat, which has violent content and is intended for older teen-agers. 

1nclud1ng Orbit Mus1c and LS. Ayres. NOTRE DAME,IN
Anyone tuho is interested. $Mould contact 

To charge tickets by phone, call 
219/272-7979

Tony Siefring at 63 J-4078 by MohcfiJQ, January 19th. 
To purchase online:http: 1;www.ticketmaster.com 

~---~­
Thursday, January 15,1998

page 8 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Calendar of Events 
MBA Retreat Friday-Saturday, January 16-17 St. Joe Hall 
Emmaus: Communities of Faith Sharing and Scripture Study Saturday, January 17 11:00am -4:00pm LaFortune Ballroom 
Misa en Espanol -Spanish Mass Sunday, January 18 1:30pm Stanford-Keenan Chapel 
Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Prayer Service Monday, January 19 7:00pm Keenan-Stanford Chapel 
Campus Bible Study Tuesday, January 20 7:00pm Campus Ministry-Badin Hall 
The fist rehearsal for the new Campus Ministry choir created for our non-denom­Inational evening prayer services. Questions? Call Karen Schneider-Kirner at 1·5242 Wednesday, January 21 7:00pm Stanford-Keenan Chapel 
Second Sunday in Ordinary Time 
Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica Saturday, January 17 
5:00p.m. Rev. Robert Moss, C.S.C Sunday, January 18 
10:00 a.m. Rev. John M. D'Arcy, D.O. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. Peter D. Rocca, C.S.C. Sunday Vespers Sunday, January 18 7:15p.m. Rev. David Scheidler, C.S.C. Scripture Readings 
1st Reading  Isaiah  62: 1-5  
2nd Reading  1 Corinthians 12:4-11  
Gospel  John  2:1-11  

We Remember. Not only for His Sake, but for Ours. 
Jim Lies, C.S.C. 

On this day, sixty-nine years ago, a child was born to a mid­dle-income African American family in Atlanta, Georgia, who would forever change how we view ourselves as Americans. On Monday, January 20, our nation will mark with a national holiday the life and heritage of an unlikely hero, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. One of the great activists for social change, Dr. King believed deeply in nonviolence. Reverend Samuel McKinney of Mt. Zion Baptist Church in Seattle has said, "King was willing to challenge the evil of hatred and racism by putting his own life on the line. He did not run from bigotry but he was willing to face it head-on. He was will­ing to fight it, but not fight back." Dr. King was, and is, a beacon of hope for oppressed people everywhere, even right here on our cam­pus. 
Most of us actually know very little about Dr. King. And that which we do know has often been filtered through the biases and prejudices of those who have "educated" us about him, whether it be the press or our own parents. That this man should have engen­dered negative feelings among much of white society is of little sur­prise, I suppose, when one considers the turmoil that followed him wherever he went. And yet, surely, we can think of others, whom I need not name, around whom just such turmoil swirled and whom we have not so readily dismissed. 
Growing up, I think we all trusted what we learned in school, that America was a fair nation, a melting pot that treated people equally. It doesn't take a rocket scientist, even here at Notre Dame, to realize that that may not be true. The principles of fairness and equality do not necessarily extend to all. Even more disconcerting than the reality that we might be victims of such discrimination is the sad reality that we might actually be perpetrators of it. If we are to achieve the kind ~of inclusive society of which King dreamed, especially in our ever more diverse and multicultural society, then we all have a role to play. It is not only the message of Dr. King, but it is as well the call of the gospel and of Jesus Christ. 
I am stunned to realize that Dr. King, at the age of 35, the very same age I am now, had already won the Nobel Peace Prize. Only four years later, at 39, he would die a martyr's death for standing against hatred and discrimination. All that he accomplished in his short life would leave me embarrassed at my own feeble attempts at justice if it didn't at the same time give me so much hope. It is stun­ning to think what one person can do, and perhaps even more amaz­ing to think what an entire community could do if it only joined together in a common cause for justice and equality. Mine m'W only be at this time to write a simple exhortatory letter in the Observer about Dr. King and all that he stood for. Yours may be simply to urge those in your world to love, regardless of race or ethnicity or religion or orientation. We all have a part to play in the realization of the dream. 
Please God, we all share the one hope that all people can come together to stand against racism, discrimination and indiffer­ence; and that this campus community can come to know the digni­ty of each member. It is the call of us all. I will not pretend to be able to say it any better than Dr. King himself, and so I close with hit words, not mine: 
I refuse to accept the view that mankind is so tragically bound to the starless night of racism and war that the bright daybreak of peace and brotherhood can never become a reali­ty... I believe that unarmed truth and unconditional love will have the final word. 

(Z\MPUSMINISTRY 


The Observer • NEWS Thursday, January 15, 1998 
Campaign funds could hinge on abortion Workers 
Re_ntaJ_SCheJlu.le 
Friday 2:30-5:30pm 
Sat/Sun 11 :00am-4:00pm 
* 
* 
Fees* 
Daily: $4.00 Overnight: $6.00 Two Nights: $7.00 
L®ation 
At the Golf Shop in the Rockne Memorial Call631-6425 
For more information about xc clinics call RecSports at 631-6100 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

In mid-term reprise of a party-wracking dispute, Republicans are going at it again on abortion. This time it is purists against political pragmatists, over a punitive proposal to deny party cam­paign funds to GOP candidates who aren't committed to ban­ning some late-term abor­tions. 
The arena is the Republican National Committee, where a resolution to punish party nominees who won't make the commitment against the so­called partial-birth abortions is due for debate on Friday, at least in committee, possibly by the full 165-member com­mittee. 
It probably will be rejected; the GOP chairman opposes it, despite his anti-abortion posi­tion. So do two leading House opponents of the abortion pro­cedure at issue in the pro­posed ban, calling it a tactical error that would be counter­productive in their effort to get it banned by law. 
Abortion has become a divi­sive fixture at Republican National Conventions, with a debate every fourth year on a platform declaration that the party favors a constitutional amendment to overturn the Supreme Court decision that 

1t=3 .1415 9 2 6 5 Double Slice Pizza=$1.99 
The ratio of the circumference of a Fazoli's pizza to its diameter is delicious. And getting one is as easy as pie. Just dine in, carry out or drive through for Double Slice 
or a whole pie. ~ 
Real /taJi. ® 
~· 
an. Rea] Fast"' 
52770 US Route 33N, 277-4008, South Bend 317W McKinley, 255-2551, Mishawaka 1248 Nappanee Street, 262-9873, Elkhart 
legalized the procedure 25 years ago. The plank stands. 
Tim Lambert, a Republican national committeeman from Lubbock, Texas, proposed the resolution to withhold cam­paign funds from candidates who aren't committed to the partial-birth abortion ban. 
He's got backing on the Christian right. But party leaders are opposed, fearful of a no-win stance that could divide their support and per­haps widen the gender gap Democratic advantage of prior elections. 
Rep. Henry Hyde, chairman of the House Judiciary Committee and an advocate of the vetoed legislation to ban partial­birth abor­
'TRYING TO DICTATE TO
tion said that abortion plan 
denying GOP PARTY OFFICIALS IS A because it did 
funds "to VERY BAD POLICY FOR ANY not provide an candidates exception for who don't PARTY.' cases involving 
agree with us SENATOR PHIL GRAMM the health of the would }Je a REPUBLICAN TEXAS mother, and was serious tacti-' overridden by cal error, and the GOP-con­very unhelp-trolled state leg­ful to our cause." islature after her re-election. 
The latest election evidence A federal judge put the ban came in Tuesday's special on hold pending a trial later balloting for a California this year. House seat, but it can be President Clinton has twice argued either way. vetoed partial-birth abortion 
Republican state bans, saying he wouldn't sign Assemblyman Tom one without exceptions for the Bordonaro, who opposes abortion ran ahead of fellow Republican state Assemblyman Brooks Firestone, who supports abor­tion rights, but far behind Democrat Lois Capps, widow of the late Rep. Walter Capps, who also supports abortion rights. Bordonaro and Mrs. Capps will meet in a March 10 run-off. 
The power of the issue, and of the outside advertising it draws, was a factor in New Jersey when Republican Gov. Christie Whitman barely won re-election last November. 
The party help she got would have been denied by 
the disputed res­
olution. 
She had vetoed 
a partial-birth 

life or health of the mother. His vetoes withstood Republican override attempts, but there will be more. 
Hyde said that the denial of campaign funds would work against future attempts. He said refusing party support to candidates who need to be persuaded would "kill our chances of getting an over­ride." He spoke for himself and Rep. Charles Canady of Florida, leading sponsor of the partial-birth abortion ban. 
"In politics, you win by addi­tion, and we need every Republican vote we can muster," Hyde wrote in a let­ter to the RNC chairman, Jim Nicholson. "If we lose our majority, it will be the death knell of pro-life legisla­tion for as long as the Democrats are in power." 
He said there ought to be another way to condemn par­tial-birth abortion without reading dissenters out of the party. 
Nicholson, an abortion foe, quoted Ronald Reagan's reminder that people who are supporters 80 percent of the time are allies, not foes for their opposition on the other 20 percent. 
It all reflects the classic split between the dominant, con­servative wing of the party and the dwindled roster of moderates, whose organiza­tion is broadcasting TV ads against the resolution twice an hour in Palm Springs, Calif., near the Indian Wells site of the Republicans' winter meeting. 
Whatever happens, the dis­pute stirs a troublesome topic at a time when Republicans want to add, not divide sup­port. 
"Trying to dictate to party officials is a very bad policy for any party," said Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas. "And if peo­ple want to make policy, run for Congress. Don't run for national committee." 
The Democrats are delight­ed to look on, sparing com­ment. "I think we will leave divisive political fights in the Republican Party to the Republicans to sort out," said White House Press Secretary Mike McCurry. 
smuggle 
•
In nurses 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Five health industry offi­cials pleaded guilty Wednesday in what the government said was .a scheme to smuggle hun­dreds of Filipino and Korean nurses into the United States to work at below-market wages. 
A Texas nursing home operator and four nursing recruiters in California and New Jersey entered the pleas in U.S. District Court in Lubbock, Texas, to a series of federal charges stemming from "Operation Windmill," a 33-month investigation conducted by a joint task force. 
"This is without a doubt one of the largest, if not the largest, visafraud schemes ever seen in this country," said Lynn Ligon of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. 
Authorities said the nurs­ing home operator, Billy Denver Jewell of Lubbock, teamed with the nursing recruiters in California, New Jersey and Texas to fraudulently bring in more than 500 nurses, most from the Philippines. 
Jewell received $1,000 or more for every nurse brought in with a legitimate work visa as a result of petitions filed by some of the 22 Jewell family-oper­ated nursing and extended care facilities in Texas and Oklahoma, said U.S. Attorney Paul Coggins. 
Jewell and his associates filed more than 1,100 peti­tions for nonimmigrant work visas, resulting in the issuance of more than 500 fraudulent visas, officials said. 

Bottoms Up!! 
While we were away, Jonathan had a birthday So, Raise your glass and Toast 21 Celebrate and have some fun! 
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Thursday, January 15, 1998 
THE OBSERVER 


NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. IN 46556 (219) 631-747I SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor·in-Chief 
Brad Prendergast 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Jamie Heisler Tom Roland 
Assistant Managing Editor 

Dan Cichalski News Editor ... Heather Cocks Advertising Manager.............................. Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ......................Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager.....................Jennifer Breslow Sports Editor ............................... Mike Day Production Manager.........................Mark DeBoy Accent Editor... . . .. ......... joey Crawford Systems Manager....... . ....... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ....................... Lori Allen Comroller. .. ....................... Kyle Carlin Pho10 Editor . . .................. Katie Kroener 
The Ob!'lcTver is the indcpcndem newspaper published by rhc studcnrs of the University of Notre Dame du Lu.: :tnd Saint M.uy's College. It docs nor necessarily rdlect the policies ofdtc :tdminisuarion ofeither insriwrion. The new~ is reported as :tecuratdy and objectively as po~siblc. Unsigned editorials represenr the opinion of the majoricy of the Ediwr~in-Chicf, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Ediror, News Editor, Viewpoinr Edimr, Sports Editor. Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Ediror, Pharo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Comruem.uic!., letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not neces~ !'larily tho!.e of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Norrc Dame/Saint Mary's communiry and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Editor-in-Chief Mano~.ging Ediror News/Photo Sports Accent/Saint Mary's Day EditorNiewpoinr t;cncral Information 
Observer Phone Lines 
6jl-4542  Business Office  
631-4541  Advertising  
631-5323  Systems  
631-454j  Office Manager  
631-4540  Fax  
631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  
631-7471  Ad E-Mail  

631-5313 631-6900/8840 631-8839 6.'11-7471 6.'11-6927 Viewpoint.! @nd.cdu obscrvcr@darwin.cc.nd.cdu 

• LETIER TO THE EDITOR 
California Smoking Ban Just Blowing Smoke 
I would just like to take this time and space to express my thoughts on the new law in California which bans smoking in bars: lla ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha!!! They're kidding, right? I mean, no. really. c'mon guys ... that's a funny gag and all but stop it. you can't really mean ... you can't mean you're serious?! 
Ah, but at last. they are serious! California, the state that has always set trends for such toxic materials as mari­juana, heroin. and Mariah Carey, has now said that smoking in bars is illegal. You would think that this is the sort of' law that could be found in an overly intrusive place such as the old Soviet Union or du Lac. Next thing you know our government will be passing laws that mimic Notre Dame's parietals (now wouldn't that just take away any point of going home on breaks!). 
In California, they have a lot of prob­lems with things like gangs, drugs, gun­control. award shows that drag on and on. and natural disasters, (WAHNING: SAHCASM ALEHT) so it's nice to see our government stepping in at the ground level to solve these problems by making sure that people don't smoke in bars. It's a good thing, too, because I know that as a non-smoker I was just siek of' going to bars to have a few (dozen) drinks, knocking ofT some brain cells before staggering home along a road traveled by motorists whose aver­age blood alcohol level is nearly double their GPAs. only to have my lungs dam­aged by some arrogant jerk's side stn~am smoke. I mean, c'mon, what kind of barbaric environment do we have to put up with in the sophisticated high-dass atmosphere of bars! (WAHN­ING: END OF SAHCASM ALEHT) 
Okay, seriously though, I'm glad that you can't smoke in an airplane, and non-smoking sections in restaurants are a niee idea. But in bars ... get real, guys. II' you're willing to smell like Guinness-okay, bad example, that's kind of a good smell-if you're willing to smell like Bud Light, then you gotta just deal with smelling like cigarette smoke. If it's that big of an issue, try this: buy your alcohol somewhere else and get trashed in the privacy of your own home. Or a friend's home. I don't care. really. Well, you should ask your friend first if' it's okay with them. 
The thing that really gets me about this whole issue is that it is very possi­ble that marijuana will become legal­ized within the next 10 or 15 years, while tobacco seems to be the taboo of modern society. I know that at a con­servative school such as this one, what I'm about to say is more controversial than saying, "There is a possibility that The Dave Matthew's Band isn't the greatest band of' all time, and that maybe, just maybe, they're not bigger than the Beatles and probably not even as big as Jesus!": it's fine by me if they legalize marijuana for private use. The key phrase for marijuana here is pri­vate use -do whatever you want in the privacy or your own home. as long as it doesn't involve something harmful to society such as making letter bombs (yes, Unabomber, that was directed at you) or writing that loathsome bubble­gum music that rattles around your brain while trying to take a final (yes, Hanson, that was directed at you). Marijuana isn't all that harmful, and it really isn't our government's business to tell us that we can't do stupid things to our own body. By the way, I do hope they will stop people from smoking marijuana in public places, because second-hand marijuana is about as pleasant smelling as my high school's wrestling locker room. 
Tobacco companies have received more media bashing than Mike Tyson for the whole car-biting thing, and I don't sec why. A lot of this hatred that Americans like to focus on trivial issues is aimed at Joe Camel. Apparently many uptight people believe that these advertisements are the source of all evil, including the promotion of smok­ing among today's youths. These are the same people who ask, "Is anal retentive hyphenated?" Please, let's not pretend that today's American children are quite that mindless-I don't think they're so gullible as to say. "I think that smoking is dumb and gross and I'd never ... hey, that long nosed, hairy, mutated-horse-with-the-double-hunch­back smoking a cigarette ... man, that camel is da bomb!" Maybe the camel works to make smokers lean toward their brand of cigarettes, but I promise you that as a non-smoker, Joe Camel has never made me want to smoke. At times he has made me want to write letters to Camel Cigarettes to let them know that a smoking Camel is stupid, but it has never made me want to smoke. 


As a side note, I'd like to point out that Joe Camel is always wearing sun glasses and a leather jacket -made from a cow, which is like you wearing the inner skin of your cousin -but often doesn't wear any pants. I think there's a good psychology paper in that fact somewhere. As a second side note, I'd like to point out that it is the liberals who are in favor of' the smoking ban ­the very same group of' people who were smoking marijuana in weed pipes longer than the Titanic and painting flowers and tie-dye patterns on their rear ends. I think there's another paper there. 
So I guess if' you want to join a gang (Delta Gamma Crypt), buy Soviet arms and a kilo of uneut heroin, or star in a movie which shows naked people using chainsaws to hack away at each other's private parts-all in the name of "art" -then California is the place to go. But if you want to be a real immoral hooli­gan and smoke in a bar, then you'd better stay in one these wild states like Indiana. Appreciate what we have here in South Bend, students of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community, because this state can now boast that it is the home of thn Fighting Irish and smoking-permitted bars! This is just such a great state (whoops, forgot the SAHCASM AJ.EHT that time)! 
John Barry Sophomore, Alumni Hall January 13, 1998 

• 000NESBURY 
SO HOIAJ'lJ Yal 6t3T 7H!3 1?/A­to61J& atJ,C/(i' 
/ IJIJ5T t?&-8CJ07E/?... 
I 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"And a woman is only a woman, but a good cigar is a smoke." 
-Rudyard Kipling 
I motJGHTI W5T 7Hl3 Rl£<3 WHeN m~ 5CReCN FROze., 8UTWHeN I POtl/­
f3?&1? a4Ck 1/1? &Vf3RY!l.{ING 
IVA5 THe~<&. I 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
1?1/J ITArF&CT OUR UNeS an'
ATA/../., 7 ONlY v.v. 'S. 
· 8IJTH5 N5V­
I 
&RA14K&S ANY5CN!!!e 
ANYa!AY. 


page 11 
by Sean King 

oasis invades washington d.c. 
T
he Brothers Gallagher came to the suburbs of our nation's capi­tal last Friday night to play the Patriot Center. The result was a crowd pleased with what it heard, but perhaps hoping for a little more of what it camn for. Sixteen songs might enthrall a small club in Manhattan, but it's not enough to pacify an arena-sized audi­ence. 
That said however, those 16 songs were strong and well-executed. The only disappointment was "Supersonic," which was not played at its usual break­neck speed. The show opened smoothly enough with the title track from the band's new record, Be Here Now. The next song, "Stand By Me," was inappro­priate however, given its slow pace and introspective nature -not the kind of thing to get a crowd going early on. 
But, after "Supersonic," Oasis reverted to its no-apologies brand of rock n' roll with such hits as "Roll With It," "D'You Know What I Mean?" and "Cigarettes and Alcohol." Sparingly-used special effects were a tasteful complement to the music. "D'You Know What I Mean?" was accompanied by lights in the form of rotating helicopter blades. Later on, younger sibling Liam sang "Champagne Supernova" against a backdrop of stars and the moon. 
Beyond that, the visuals consisted of the band members' usual looks of dis­dain for those around them -tam­bourines thrown in mock disgust. fin­gers pointed and Liam practically yawn­ing in the face of older brother l\oel's expert guitar work. But that's all part of the act, and it's a welcome contrast to Oasis shows in 1996, when the band started playing up to its newly found American audiences. 
Halfway through the show, Noel Gallagher performed his own acoustic set, which included such crowd favorites as "Don't Go Away" and "Cast No Shadow." Dillon Allie, ND class of 2001, said Noel Gallagher made everyone in the arena feel as if he were personally singing to every person in the audience. After a traditional, electric version of "Don't Look Back in Anger," Liam returned to do what can best be described as a heavy metal version of "Wonderwall." It was a fresh take on an old favorite and, following numbers like 


b.b. king 
"Acquiesce," a b-side from three years ago; but that's what we love about them. Problem is, if you're the most important band since U2, you need to play more than five songs from your latest album. 
*** 1/2 stars

Deuces Wild 
out of five 


B 
B. King is known for his ability to banter and duet with musicians. His partnerships with Bobby "Blue" Bland, Ruth Brown, Gladys Knight, and many others have highlighted the career of this most gregarious bluesman. So when B.B. went out and got a whole slew of celebrities for his new album, he arranged for a broad cross-section of both what works and what doesn't in duets. 
The best tracks on this album come from the more accomplished bluesmen (and women) in the group. "If You Love Me," with Van Morrison, who is perhaps the only singer recruited for this record that can rival B.B.'s intensity, is the most pure blues song on the album. Even with its cheesy violin track, this song just drips with emotion. 
A pleasant surprise comes to light in the form of R&B singer D'Angelo's vocal talents. The man, most commonly known for very ethereal and quiet vocals, busts out with a determined, gut-wrenching perfor­mance that is eerily reminiscent of the late, great Otis Redding. Ever competent blues guitarist Eric Clapton duels B.B. to the death for control of the classic, "Rock Me." Dr. John and Joe Cocker both lend their soulful, raspy voices to this album, much to its bene­fit. 
There are some down points to this album. Mick Hucknall's floundering performance on "Please Send Me Someone to Love" is awful. You are better off with the version featuring Gladys Knight on B.B.'s last live album. The cheesy, stupid rap between Heavy D, B.B. and his guitar Lucille, and "hair-boy" (see the album cover; it is funny) Marty Stuart's destruction of the classic, "Confessin' the Blues," mark low points of this work. 
Overall, this album is another in the great catalog of B.B. King efforts with a fun, solid romp with the Rolling Stones and the inevitable pairing of B.B. King and Willie Nelson on the ever-popular song "Night Life" (B.B. wrote the song, Willie covered it better than anyone else for years). It is a brand new look at some great old songs in the style in which B.B. King, one of the greatest bluesmen of all time, excels. 
by Matthew Loughran 

Buddy Guy Jan. 15-23 Buddy Guy's Legends (Chicago) Oasis Jan. 17 Rosemont Horizon (Rosemont) The Drovers/Butterside Down Jan. 17 Schubas Tavern (Chicago) The Delvins/David Poe Jan. 22 Schubas Tavern (Chicago) Grand Funk Railroad Jan. 23 Murat Theatre (Indianapolis) Edwin McCain Jan. 26 House of Blues (Chicago) Wyclef Jean of The Fugees Jan. 29 House of Blues (Chicago) Hum/The Promise Ring Jan. 30 Metro (Chicago) Paula Cole Feb. 1 Piere's (Fort Wayne) Luna Feb.6 Metro (Chicago) The Jayhawks Feb. 7 Metro (Chicago) Aerosmith Feb. 10 The Palace (Auburn Hills) Ivy/Space Monkeys Feb. 12 Patio Lounge (Indianapolis) 
ALAN JACKSON/DEANNA CARTER FEB.13 JOYCE CENTER ARENA 
Henry Rollins Feb. 13 House of Blues (Chicago) Ben Folds Five Feb. 15 Riviera Theatre (Chicago) Jimmy Buffett Feb. 16 The Palace (Auburn Hills) Willie Nelson Feb.23 House of Blues (Chicago) The Crystall Method Feb.28 House of Blues (Chicago) Cheap Trick Feb.28 Star Plaza (Merrillville) 
·• 
:. 

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Blue Devils ice Demon Deacons 
Associated Press 
WINSTON-SALEM. N.C. 

Shane Battier led a stif'ling defensive display that sent No. 2 Duke to an 88-52 victory over Wake Forest on Wednesday night, the Demon Deacons' worst loss in the nine-year his­tory of Lawrence .Joel Coliseum. 
The Blue Devils (15-1, 5-0 Atlantie Coast Conference) won their sixth consecutive game by scoring 29 points off 20 turnovers. 
Duke, which has an average winning margin of 28 points in conference play, got 15 points from Chris Carrawell, 13 from Trajan Langdon, 12 from Steve Wojciechowski and 10 apiece from Roshown McLeod and Mike ChappPII. Battier, who furded the decisive surge early in the first half, wound up with four points, 10 rebounds, four steals and three assists in 20 minutes. 
Wake Forest got 15 points from Tony Hutland, 13 from Hobert O'Kellcy and 10 from Niki Arinze. 
The Demon Deacons' biggest problem was Duke's press, which frequently produced turnovers before Wake Forest could even get out of its own backcourt. On the occasions when the Demon Deacons were able to cross the center line, they often had to do it by hav­ing 7 -foot-I Loren Woods or one of thHir forwards dribble the ball to a safe area. 
Less than two minutes into the game the Blue Devils broke it open by starting a 16-0 run in which they forced six turnovers and converted them into 10 points. Battier had three steals, four points and an assist in the surge, which gave Duke a 20-4 lead less than seven minutes into the contest. 
Wake Forest, which went nearly 6 1/2 minutes without scoring, broke its drought with a 7-0 run before Duke began pulling away again. The Blue Devils quickly stretched it to 21 points and built it as high as 25 on the way to a 48-25 halftime lead. 
No. 13 Iowa 61, Ohio State 46 

Dean Oliver doublnd his aver­age with 17 points and No. 13 Iowa floundered offensively but still had enough firepower to beat Ohio State 61-46 Wednesday night. 
Iowa (14-2, 3-1 Big Ten) won for the eighth time in its last nine games. The llawkeyes were beaten at home 7 6-64 by Illinois a week ago in their last game. 
.J. H. Koch added 11 points, while Ryan Bowen had 11 rebounds and Darryl Moore 10 as the I-lawkeyes outrebounded the Buckeyes 36-30. 
.Jason Singleton scored 16 points and matched his career high with 10 rebounds for Ohio State (7-9, 0-3), which has lost six in a row. 
Michael Redd of Ohio State, the nation's leading freshman scorer, hit just one of his first 11 shots and finished with 13 points on 3-for-15 shooting. Despite a twisting an ankle in practice Monday night, Redd never left the court. 
Ohio State shot just 35 per­cent (17-of-48) for the game and had 24 turnovers, 10 by captain Neshaun Coleman in his first start of the season. 
The first half was marked by dramatic runs for each team. 
After Ohio State opened the scoring on a 3-pointer by Coleman, Iowa ran off the next 13 points as the Buckeyes missed 10 straight shots. But Ohio State scored 12 of the next 16 points to get back in the game, with two free throws by Hedd pulling the Buckeyes even at 17. 
Koch and Moore each scored four points in the closing 15-7 spurt that gave the Hawkeyes a 
32-24 turnovers.  lead  despite  12  
No. 3 Kansas 83, Texas A&M 65  
Paul  Pierce  and  Eric  

Chenowith led a second-half scoring surge and No. 3 Kansas took advantage of Texas A&M's icy second-half shooting for an 83-65 victory Wednesday night. 
Chenowith led Kansas (20-2, 4-0 Big 12) with 16 points, nine in the second half, and Pierce scored 11 of his 15 points in the second half as the .Jayhawks won their fourth straight and 12th in 13. 
The biggest lead of the first half was the halftime margin as the .Jayhawks edged from a 39­37 lead with 2:46 to go in the half by scoring the final six points of the half. 
The Aggies didn't get a bas­ket in the second half until Michael Schmidt's field goal with 16:04 left in the game. Schmidt led the Aggies with 16 points. 

The Aggies took a 21-18 lead 
midway through the first half 
before a basket by Lester Earl 
and a 3-pointer by Ryan 
Robertson gave Kansas a 23-21 
lead. 

The Aggies tied it 23-23 on a 
basket by .Jerald Brown with 
9:46 left in the half but two straight baskets by Chenowith gave the lead back to the .Jayhawks and they never trailed again. 
Robertson and Kenny Gregory each scored 13 points for the .Jayhawks and Nick Bradford added 11. 
Larry Thompson added 14 points for the Aggies. 
No.22 Arkansas 89, Florida 84 
Kareem Heid scored 18 points in the first half and made both ends of a 1-and-1 with 24 seconds left as No. 22 Arkansas survived an impres­sive Florida rally and beat the Gators 89-84 Wednesday night. 
Reid's free throws made it 87-84 and came after Tarik Wallace stole an inbounds pass following a Florida timeout. Arkansas (14-2, 3-0 Southeastern Conference) padded the lead when Wallace made two free throws 13 sec­onds later. 
The Gators (8-5, 2-2) trailed by as many as 13 points in the second half but went ahead 82­81 on Dan Williams' layup with 
3:40 remaining. 

Kenyan Weaks, who was 6­of-9 from 3-point range, led Florida with 22 points. Greg Stolt, who didn't miss on his five 3-point attempts, added 21. 
Arkansas took a 69-56 lead after Nick Davis leaned in at an awkward angle for a basket and Florida turnovers resulted in a dunk by Derek Hood and a layup by Chris Walker. 
Williams and Jamaal Horton made 3s as Florida closed to 73-66. Williams' one-bander in the lane and Weaks' 3 from the corner cut it to 75-71. 
Davis' two baskets put Arkansas up eight, but Weaks made a 3 from the corner, Eddie Shannon drove for a bas­ket and Weaks scored inside. Williams then put Florida ahead for the first time since 7­5. 
Arkansas used a 16-0 run for a 21-7 lead. Florida began to pressure Arkansas and quickly cut into the lead with a 12-0 run that made it 25-24. 
Thursday, January 15, 1998 

• Q.~YMPlC SWIMMING 
Chinese athletes busted for drugs 
Associated Press 
PERTH. AustraHa 
Four Chinese swimmers 
were suspended for drugs 
Wednesday, strengthening 
acc\lsations that have shad­
owed the team for years and 
prompting calls for China to 
be·removed f'rom the world 
championships. 
The United States won two 
titles and Olympic gold 
medalist Alexander Popov 
took the men's 100-meter 
freestyle. But the focus of' 
the championships again 
was on drugs and China's 
team; 
FINA, swimming's govern­ing hody, said Wang Wei of China's men's team and Wang Luna, Cai Huijue and Zhang Yi of the women's team tested positive for the banned diuretic triamterene and were immediately sus­pended. 
The federation also announced suspensions against two other Chinese team members involved in last week's seizure of a banned performance­enhancer. 
Yuan Yuan, a swimmer caught by Australian cus­toms Jan. 8 with human growth hormones in her suitcase, was given a !'our­year suspension. Coach Zhou Zhewen, who said he placed the drugs in the suitcase, was banned for 15 years, although FINA said it would review his case after 10 years. 
"I think anything they do anymore, you can't be sur­prised,'' said Amy Van Dyken, a four-time Olympic gold medalist for the United States. "Especially consider­ing. the events which started the other day with customs. I don't think you can be very surprised about any of this." 
The positive tests for tri­amterene came from sam­ples collected Jan. 8. FINA said the four are suspended until another sample taken at the same time could be analyzed. 
There were 12 samples taken on that day, a FINA official said, and not all have been returned, raising the possibility of more positive tests. The Chinese also were tested Jan. 9, but those results are not known. 
Diuretics are sometimes 
used by athletes to reduce 
weight quickly. But medical 
officials say diuretics also 
are used to reduce the con­
centration of' drugs in urine 
in an attempt to flush drugs 
from the system. 
MI don't really understand why they are doing this," FINA secretary Gunnar Werner said. 
Chinese swimmers, who burst onto the international scene in the past decade, have spent years dealing with drug accusations. 
"It just proves something is going on," U.S. eoach Jon Urbanchek said. 
Urbanchek said Chinese officials turned away drug inspectors Jan. 7, question­ing if the test was indeed sanctioned by FINA. 
MThe next day FINA turned up in their jackets with their official badges and did the testing," the U.S. coach said. "During the night they've (Chinese officialsj obviously given these to the kids as a masking agent." 
Also Wednesday, FINA sus­pended Ukrainian swimmer Olena Lapunova for four years because of a positive test in 1997 for a metabo­lized form of' a banned drug. She might be able to return to competition after six months if she undergoes drug monitoring. 
It also suspended Australian swimmer Scott Miller for two months for testing positive to marijuana on Sept. 22. 
In the pool, Popov, a Russian who lives in Australia, beat Aussie train­ing partner Michael Klim in the 100 freestyle. Popov is attempting to become the first man to win a 50-and 100-meter double at succes­sive world championships. He achieved the Olympic double for the second con­secutive time at Atlanta. 
''I'm exhausted but not ecstatic,'' Popov said. "It was a usual vi,~tory, nothing spectacular. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for ne~t-day das­
Classifieds sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be. prepaid..The charlie is 3.cents per ch~racter per day, oncludong all spaces. The Observer reserves the nght to edrt all classrficds for content wrthout ISSUing refunds. 
needed to assist on the afternoon of 2 Bedroom 2nd Floor Apt. $450/ Saturday, February 7 with set-up mth. Short term 6 mth. lease. View
FOR RENT PERSONAL
~-N__o_T_Ic_E_s__~l Ll__w.__~_N_T_E_o__~ and on Sunday, February 8 during of St. Joe river from 2nd Fir. porch. 
the afternoon and evening as 1906 historic home, security sys· BEST HOTELS, LOWEST PRICES. greeters, storyroom volunteers, and tern, walk-in closets, storage, off­Auditions for "You're a Good Man ALL SPRINGBREAK locations. VOLUNTEERS NEEDED to help with event clean·up. There WALK TO CAMPUS street parking. Gas, electric, Charlie Brown" will be held in room Cancun, Jamaica. from $399, The Early Childhood Development will be a meeting for everyone inter· 2·5 BEDROOM HOMES phone, and cable by tenant. Call 1 b Regina SMC campus Wed & Florida, from $89. Texas. Mazatlan, Center, located at Saint Mary's ested in volunteering (faculty, staff, $195/PERSON Greg @ 288-2654 Thu@ 7 pm Bahamas. Register your group to College and the University of Notre students, and community members) 232·2595 be our Campus Rep. 800-327·6013 Dame, is looking for volunteers who on Tuesday, January 20, 1998 from ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR Student Activities is accepting www.lcpt.com enjoy young children. If you would 5:30-6:30 at the Haggar College FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND applications for 
be interested in spending 2 hours a Center Parlor, Saint Mary's College. OTHER ND·SMC EVENTS. LaFortune Building Managers 
week reading children's books, For more information, please call House for Rent VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS-5 (evening & weekend shifts). "Don't Get Burned on Spring Break" building with blocks, and singing the Saint Mary's College Public Two Blocks from Campus MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK. Spring Break Packages are going songs with chlidren, please call Relations Office at 284-4595 or the 4-5 Bedroom. Available June 98 for 243-0658. Also accepting applications for fast. Stop in at Anthony Travel's Thayer Kramer at 631-3344 Early Childhood Development Summer, August for Fall. Information Desk Attendants. new location and check out the best (ECDC-ND) or Cindy Hestad at Center at 631·3344 or 284·4693. Includes Dishwasher, 8 BEDROOM HOME FOR NEXT (Must be able to work a Spring Break vacations around. 284·4693 (ECDC-SMC). Please Please join us for this wonderful, Washer/Dryer, Large Backyard and SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 10-2pm shift on Thursdays.) Don't take a chance with an join our fun filled days. enriching event which promotes lit­off-street Parking. unkown agency or some 1·800 eracy and the love of reading! MONITORED SECURITY 3-4 BEDROOM HOMES FOR If interested apply at 315 number. Limited space available, so SYSTEM INCLUDED!I! NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 LaFortune. book now! Call289-4712 Anthony Travel, Inc. 1998 STORYBOOK FESTIVAL AIDS MEMORIAL QUILT IS 
FOR SALE

Lafortune Student Center VOLUNTEERS NEEDED ADVERSTISING SALES INTERN­COMING TO CAMPUS 
631·7080 Saint Mary's College and the Early SHIP Febr. 6·8, 1998 If interested in vol· Childhood Development Center are University Directories is hiring stu­1 Bed room furnished apt in a Compaq Notebook, 20 meg. RAM, unteering sign·up Mon. Jan 19 in co-sponsoring a Storybook Festival dents to sell yellow page advertis· home in good residential area. Color monitor includes carrying NO room of LaFUN at 7 PM or call for young children (ages 2.5-6) on ing for the official campus tele­10 mins from NO. Share kitchen. case, manual. etc. Erin at 4-3857
ILOST & FOUND I Sunday, February 8, 1998. The phone directory this summer. Security system. Call Greg @288-2654 Storybook Festival will celebrate Commission based pay structure. No smoking, drinking or partying. Some dude just knocked me cold 
Missing: WRISTWATCH books and the worlds they create Training program. Excellent sales & Postgrad student or faculty only. Brass bed, queen size with deluxe and left on the sidewalk. lost just before semester's end by bringing children inside those marketing experience. Call 1-800· $ 400 per month. Security deposit orthpedic Mattress set and Frame. Took everything I had. Everything I Fossil • leather band/white face worlds through a variety of art, 743-5556 Ext. 143 or visit www.uni· $250, References required. New. never used. still in plastic. had. 
Please call Nicole @ 0565 music, movement and creative dra· versitydirectories.com Call277-0189 after 3.30 pm $250.00 219-862-2082 malic activities. Volunteers are 
page 13

The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Thursday, January 15, 1998 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, January 15, 1998 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 

Mets change uniforms, faces Fielder looks to work 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK 
Tlw Nl'W York MPts brought rwarlv half thPir team to the FashiZm C:af'p on WPdnesday to unvt>il nPW uniforms. There wt>rP onlv minor alternations to both thE; threads and the ros­ter. 
Most of' tlw forus was on :vtasato Yoshii. a 32-vPar-old pitrhPr who agreed Tt;esday to a $200,000, onn-ynar contract that gives him thn ehanee to earn $1.4 million morn in per­formancP bonuses. 
"To play in Nnw York and to play under Bobby Valentine really attracted me," Yoshii said through a translator. referring to the Mets' manager. who piloted the Chiba Lotte Marines in 1995. 
If he pitches 200 innings and makes 33 starts. he would wind up making $1.6 million, more than double the $707,000 he earned last year in Japan. Still, Valentine said Yoshii could have gotten a better deal with the Tokyo Giants, Japan's No. 1 spender. 
"Tiu~y of'fnred him at least $2 million a ynar for four years." said Valentine, who eompared Yoshii's pitching style to Orel Ilershiser and Rick Reed. 
Todd Hundley, Butch Huskey, John Olerud, Bernard Gilkey and otlwrs also strutted the runway. showing ofT a primari­ly black cap the Mets will wear at times and road uniforms with a black drop shadow. 
The only new faces were John Hudek and Hich Becker. Not very much to spark ticket sa!Ps. which start Saturday. 
"You always want to go out and get a big-name player, a quality player," John Franco said. "It's just a matter of going out and doing it. We still have two months left. A deal could be made in spring training, too." 
Despite the addition of Hudek and Dennis Cook to the bullpen, and Becker to the outfield. Todd Hundley's absence may be the biggest difference between the 1998 Mets and the '97 version, which went 88-74 and missed a wild-card spot by four games. 

Hundley said he won't even start tossing a ball for another month and still. doesn't know when he'll return. 
"That's the frustrating part." he said. "I don't have any idea of when I can come back. ·• 
Valentine takes heart that this is a "good group." Without mentioning Kevin Brown, Gary Sheffield and Randy Johnson, he said he worried that "we'd get a better player and become a lesser team." 
lie knows the Mets aren't picked by most to make the playoffs. Some say the 88 wins last season were a fluke. 
"How do you think you're going to do that again," he said is the question he's most-often asked. 
Most people. he says. don't think it's possible. 
"Probably everyone," he said, "except my coaches, a couple of players, my mom and my dad." 
Twins may seek greener pastures 
Associated Pr~ 
PHOENIX 
If nostalgia is on the side of fans who want the Minnesota Twins to stay in the Minneapolis area, finances may be leaning toward North Carolina. 
Baseball's ownership com­mittee discussed the proposed move of the franchise on Wednesday, along with the ptmding sale of the Los Angeles Dodgers to Fox Sports, a branch of Hupert Murdoch's publishing empire, without making recommendations. 
"The Twins situation not only involves a prospective sale but a prospective reloca­tion, so it's really a matter that has to be further discussed by the executive council." said Atlanta Braves chairman Bill Bartholomay, chairman of the ownership committee. 
He didn't expect the council to take action on the proposal of North Carolina businessman Don Beaver to acquire the Twins and move them to the Triad area around Greensboro. 
Twins owner Carl Pohlad signed a letter of intent last year to sell to Beaver, but left the door open to stay put if Minnesota legislators agree to subsidize construction of a new stadium. 
Bartholomay expects his 

committee to make a recom­mendation before the next owners meeting on the sale of the Dodgers, baseball's last single-family franchise. 
"(Dodgers owner) Peter O'Malley addressed the ,com­mittee and discussed some open items that need to be resolved," Bartholomay said. 
"I think everybody would like to see baseball prosper where it is, hut you certainly can't ask anybody just to continue to lose money in one place," Schieffer said. "My individual preference w·o:uld be hopefully to see something work out. But if it can't, I know the folks in Charlotte are good people and would do a good job." 

Last Chance 
to Prepare for the 
April MCAT! 
Classes starting this week! 1/13, 1/14, 1/15, 1/22, 2/1 Enroll today to save your spot! 
Call today to enroll in the #1 MCAT prep course. 

1·800-KAP·TEST 
www.kaplan.com 

miracles for Angels 
Associated Press 
ANAHEIM, Calif. 

Newly acquired Cecil Fielder expects to lead the Anaheim Angels to a title the same way he helped lead the New York Yankees to a World Series championship in 1996. 
And he won't do it with power, although the slugging designated hitter-first baseman does expect to hit his share of home runs in 1998. 
"I think what this club needs most of all is guys who will do the little things it takes to win. That's what I want to do," said Fielder, who signed a one-year contract with the Angels as a free agent on Dec. 19. 
"I think the situation is the same as it was in New York. (Yankees Manager) Joe Torre said we had the guys to drive in the runs and do the big things; what we needed were the guys to do the little things. We did the little things and we won." 
Being able to return home was important to Fielder, who grew up some 25 miles north of Anaheim. Being able to play for a club he felt had a strong chance of winning was also a big reason why Fielder chose the Angels. 
The Angels linished second in the AL West in two of the last three seasons. Fielder said his new club doesn't have far to go in order to reach the top. 
"I've always thought the Angels had a great deal of tal­ent," he said. "The last couple of years is when that talent has start1~d to come out. The last few ypars. they just haven't been. able to get to the top. It's a learning proeess. 
"This is still a young club, and young players need the older guys to piek them up and not let them down. I've IHwn around the league for a while. I bring that experience for sure." 
Finlder. who struggled through most of th1~ 1997 sea­son with the Yankees. is one of several impact 1jlayers the Angels brought in this winter and introduced to Los Angeles­area media at a press confer­ence Wednesday. 
Other new additions include right-banders William VanLandingham and Omar 
Olivares,  catcher  Matt  
Walbeck,  and  infielders  
Norberta  Martin  and  Phil  
Nevin.  

Fielder. with his 302 eareer home runs and 940 HBis, may be the key addition. lie's eager to prove he's fully recovered from a thumb injury that limit­ed him to 13 homers and 61 HBis last year, and forced him to sign for less than one-third of the $9.3 million he earned in 1997. 
"You can tell just by looking at him that Cer,il's getting ready to have a big year," Angels manager Terry Collins said. "There's a lot of pressure on guys when they come home to play, but he's the kind of guy who can handle it. He looks great. You can tell he's been working very hard this offsea­son. Cecil's going to be a major impact player for us." 


that pay you7 How will you ever cope? With KeyBanks 
KeyMoney Access Account, you'll earn $.25 for each KeyBank MAC ATM deposit you make -up to $1.00 per month 
Plus, KeyBank has ATMs conveniently placed on campus: 
• 
Lafortune Student Center 

• 
JACC, Gate 10 


Want more information? Call l-800-KEY2YOU'" for your KeyMoney Access Account. 

Key. For a new America~ 

Thursday, January 15, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
Pac:kers prep for Super Bowl 

Associated Press 
GREEN BAY, Wis. 
The Green Bay Packers have fallen short of LeRoy Butler's preseason prediction of perfection, but they're right where they expected to be ­heading to San Diego for a chance to repeat as champi­ons. 
"Three lo:;;ses, it was very realistic," says strong safety Butler, whose prognostication last summer of a 19-0 season rankled coach Mike Holmgren, not to mention the NFL's other 29 teams. 
Holmgren said one of those losses -against Indianapolis -will be used as a caveat this week in case the Packers start to feel too good about themselves following their domination of the San Francisco 49ers in the NFC championship. 
The Packers are a confident, loose bunch. Quarterback Brett Favnl set off a stink bomb in the locker room on Wednesday, welcoming a horde of reporters from Denver. 
Favre initially denied he 

was the culprit. 
"OK, it was me," he quickly confessed. "Practical jokes are part of it. The media's been a little crowded this week so I felt like loosening them up and clearing them out. 
"We're always doing practi­cal jokes and having fun. That's what it's all about. No one likes a stiff. That's no fun for anyone." 
There are no stiffs in the Packers' locker room, just a supremely confident bunch that almost sees the Super Bowl on Jan. 25 as a formali­ty. 
But in case the Packers start having a little too much fun, Holmgren has something that will cut the laughter in a hurry. 
"All I have to do is point to the Indianapolis game, put that film in for a little while," he said. " 'Look at this. You're world champs, look at this. How good do you feel about this?"' 
Free safety Eugene Robinson said the Indianapolis debacle, while the low point of the season. 
ON SALE TO WELCOME YOU BACK: 
NOTEBOOKS, DISKETTES, CALENDARS, CLOTHING, BACKPACKS AND MORE. 
AND DON'T FORGET YOUR TEXTBOOKS! 
YOU ALWAYS SAVE BIG WITH USED BOOKS! 
wasn't the turning point. 
He said that occurred on Oct. 27, following the Packers' bye week, when Green Bay thumped New England 28-10 on a Monday night. 
"Tyrone Williams knocked down two passes in the end zone after giving up a long play, and we went on a 99­yard scoring drive," Robinson said. "That was the bench­mark of our season." 
And what was the loss to the Colts then? 
"A speed bump." 
Cautious that the Super Bowl might be a speed trap, the Packers are implementing their game plan for the Broncos this week. 
But they're also enjoying the journey as it winds down. 
"The entire season was pressure-packed: 'Can we do it again? Are they prima don­nas? Are they charlatans? They are going to fall off, you just wait, you just wait,"' Robinson said. "We had a lot to prove." 
Holmgren said the Packers found it harder to enjoy this season because everyone tried to dethrone them. 
"This didn't come easy," receiver Antonio Freeman said. "Repeating is much tougher because so much is expected of you. You're the big cat. Everyone is gunning for you." 

THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
~------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, January 15, 1998 
NBA"AII-Star Voting
·>'">. '·" 
EASTERN CONFERENCE 
Forwards 1, Grant Hill, Detroit, 276,092. 2, Shawn Kemp, Cleveland, 208,057. 3, Scottie Pippen, Chic~go, 123,718. 4, Glen Ri~e. Charlotte, 8~,685. 5, Chris Webber, Washmgton, 56,008. 6, Denms R~dr:nan, Ch1cago, 55,703. 7, Antoine Walker, Boston, 41,610. 8, Chnst1an Laettner, Atlanta, 34,889. 9, Anthony Mason, Charlotte, 31,426. 10, Juwan Howard, Washington, 31,247. Guards 1, Michael Jordan, Chicago, 274,405. 2, Penny Hardaway, Orlando, 160,890. 3, Allen Iverson, Philadelphia, 102,912. 4, Tim Hardaway, Miami, 97,352. 5, Bob Sura, Cleveland, 72,991. 6, Reggie Miller, Indiana, 64,072. 7, Joe Dumars, Detroit, 44,513. 8, Damon Stoudamire, Toronto, 40,069. 9, Terrell Brandon, Milwaukee, 39,415. 10, Kendall Gill, New Jersey, 32,381. Centers 1, Dikembe Mutombo, Atlanta, 156,486. 2, Patrick Ewing, New York, 151,852. 3, Alonzo Mourning, Miami, 92,838. 4 Luc Longley, 
Chicago, 37,035. 5, Vlade Divac, Cha  706.  Rik Smits,  
Indiana, 35,480. 7, Brian Williams, Detroit,  Seikaly,  
Orlando, 25,623. 9, Travis Knight, Bosto  rghe  

Muresan,Washington, 16,607. 
WESTERN CONFEREN 
Forwards 

1, Karl Malone, Utah, 178,264. 2, Kevin Garnett, Minnesota, 168,319. 3, Tim Duncan, San Antonio, 160,496. 4, Charles Barkley, Houston, 137,014. 5, Vin Baker, Seattle, 116,778. 6, Tom Gugliotta, Minnesota, 77,510. 7, Sean Elliott. San Antonio, 73,256. 8, Rasheed Walace, Portland, 49,169. 9, Detlef Schrempf, Seattle, 48,625. 10, Shareef Abdur-Rahim, Vancouver, 42,773. Guards 1, Gary Payton. Seattle, 156,865. 2, Stephan Marbury, Minnesota, 107,010. 3, Eddie Jones, L.A. Lakers, 102,042. 4, Jason Kidd, Phoenix, 93,853. 5, Kobe Bryant, L.A. Lakers, 92,645. 6, John Stockton, Utah, 88,282. 7, Clyde Drexler, Houston. 79,640. 8, Nick Van Exel, LA Lakers, 73,689. 9, Avery Johnson, San Antonio, 73,355. 10, Mitch Richmond, Sacramento, 61,381. Centers 1, David Robinson. San Antonio, 208,985. 2, Shaquille O'Neal, L.A. Lakers, 168,345. 3, Hakeem Olajuwon, Houston, 106,136. 4, Arvydas Sabonis, Portland, 45,493. 5, Sam Perkins, Seattle, 30,097. 6, Greg Ostertag, Utah, 17,333. 7, Lorenzen Wright, L.A. Clippers, 13,886. 8, Bryant Reeves, Vancouver, 13,299. 9, ShaWn Bradley, Dallas, 10,750. 10, Erick Dampier, Golden State, 8,393. 
•NBA 

Smith, Hawks pummel Dallas 
Associated Press 

ATLANTA 
Steve Smith scored 29 points and Dikembe Mutombo added 21 points and 19 rebounds and the Atlanta Hawks pounded the Dallas Mavericks 108-82 Wednesday night for their fifth consecutive victory. 
Smith, who scored 35 points in Atlanta's win over New York on Tuesday night, shot 7 -of-9 from 3-point range and was 10-of-15 overall with six assists. 
Michael Finley led the Mavericks with 25 points. 
It was the fourth straight loss for the Mavericks (6-31), who have lost 19 of 20 and own the third-worst record in the league. 
Dallas fell behind 7-0, then pulled to 31-26 early in the sec­ond period before Smith went on one of his 3-point tears. 
The Hawks took their biggest lead of the first half at 14 points -47-33-on Smith's fourth 3­pointer of the period. The Mavericks, however, cut the margin to 49-42 at the half with a 9-2 run keyed by Dennis Scott's five points. 
Smith, the NBA's player of the week, shot 5-of-7 on 3s and had 17 points at halftime. 
The Hawks built their lead in the third period and went ahead 63-48 on another 3 by Smith, this one from 40 feet with only 3 seconds left on the 24-second shot clock. 
Indiana 1 00, Detriot 93 
Reggie Miller scored 25 points, including a key 3-pointer with 
26.4 seconds to play, as Indiana defeated Detroit 100-93 Wednesday night despite a sea­son-high 26 turnovers. 
Indiana overcame a season­
high 37 points by Grant Hill, 
who matched his career-high 
with 15 field goals and attempt­
ed a career-high 29 shots. 
Joe Dumars added 23 points for Detroit, one off his season­high. 
The teams were tied at 85 before Rik Smits grabbed an offensive rebound and put in a hook shot. Chris Mullin, one of three Pacers with 16 points, fol­lowed with a 3-pointer for a 90­85 lead with 3:32 left. 
Smits and Jackson chipped in with 16 points each for Indiana and Jackson had 11 assists. 
The Pistons trailed 34-24 after a first quarter in which the Pacers shot 63 percent (12-of­19). Detroit responded to lead 51-49 at halftime on a jumper by Hill just before the buzzer and took its biggest lead of the night when it scored the first basket of the second half. 
Toronto 109, Los Angeles 101 
Damon Stoudamire tied his career high with 36 points Wednesday night to lead the Toronto Haptors to their sixth victory, 109-101 over the Los Angeles Clippers. 
Stoudamire, who scored 22 points in the first half, took 31 shots before leaving to a stand­ing ovation with about a minute to play. He iced the victory with a pair of 3-point shots in the final four minutes as the Haptors won at home for just the second time in their last 18 games. 
Marcus Camby added 20 points, Doug Christie had 14 and John Wallace added 14 off the bench. Stoudamire also had 11 assists. 
Lamond Murray had 23 points 

and 10 rebounds for the 
Clippers, who lost their fourth in 
a row and fourth straight on the 
road. Rodney llogers and Brent 
Barry added 16 points each and 
Maurice Taylor came off the 
bench to score 17. 
The Haptors, who have aver­aged better than 50 percent shooting from the field over their last three games, shot 52.3 per­cent. 
San Antonio 89, Washington 79 
Tim Duncan had 28 points and 16 rebounds and David Robinson added 20 points and 14 rebounds as the San Antonio Spurs broke a four-game losing streak to the Washington Wizards with a 89-79 win Wednesday night. 
The Wizards, who lost consee­utive games at the MCI Center for the l'irst time, were led by Chris Webber with 27 points and Juwan Howard with 21. Hod Strickland had 18 points and 12 assists for his team-leading 20th double-double. 
Trailing 62-59, San Antonio took the lead for good with a 7-1 run punctuated by Jaren Jackson's 3-pointer for a 66-63 lead with 2:12left in the third. 
The Wizards controlled the game early, jumping out to a 23­12 lead after a layup by Webber with 4:22 left in the first quarter. 
Led by Duncan, the Spurs charged back, seoring six straight and 12 of the next 14 to take a 24-23 lead with 1:15 left in the quarter. They continued their surge for most of the sec­ond quarter, building their lead to as much as seven before heading into the lockerroom with a 52-49 lead. 

I 
ac 1n 
• 
Goldman Sachs in Hong Kong 

• 
AT&T in London 

• 
Rhone-Poulnec in Chile 

• 
Price Waterhouse in Tokyo 

• 
Teach English or Business in Eastern Europe, Africa and Hong Kong 



• Spend you sumn1er work­ing for companies or teaching worldwide 
'-' 

• Open to all ND/SMC Arts & Letters, Business, Edu­cation, Engineering and Science Majors 
Applications available outside L058 COBA. · Questions?? Contact Randy Dominguez, Carolyn Parnell or Angela Cantu at 631-9044. Applications due January 21, 1998. 
Notre Dame Council on International Business Development 
Thursday, January 15, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• NHl 
Detriot continues strea~k with win over Canucks 
Associated Press Maltby dri.lled it past Burke at Hangers 4-l on Wednesday Holik, who beat Cloutier with a period penalty shot at 16:18 
10:44. night. shot from between the circles. after referee Mark Faucette DETROIT A nice three-way passing Denis Pederson and Steve A penalty by Kovalev in the ruled Lightning rookie goal­
Chris Osgood stopped 26 play between Mathieu Thomas also scored for the neutral zone gave the Devils a tender Zac Bierk accidentallyshots for his second straight Dandenault, Martin Lapointe Devils, who tallied on three of power play 41 seconds into the threw his stick during a break­shutout Wednesday night as and Murphy gave Detroit a 2-0 their first 14 shots against second period and Pederson away.the Detroit Hed Wings took a lead 16:11 into the second Cloutier in building a 3-0 lead converted 30 seconds later on Mikael Renberg scored five-game unbeaten streak into period. early in the second-period. a cross ice pass by Patrik Elias. Tampa Bay's goal at 2:59 of the NHL All-Star break with a Dandenault was brought Alexei Kovalev scored for the Mike Richter replaced the third period. 4-0 win over the Vancouver down by Brent Hedican as he Rangers, who had three shots Cloutier after the goal and did The Lightning have lost six Canucks. broke in from the right side in the opening period. Devils not give up a goal on seven straight and are winless in 
Kirk Maltby, Larry Murphy, but managed to get a pass to goaltender Martin Brodeur shots. Thomas scored into an their last seven (0-6-1). Brendan Shanahan and Brent Lapointe in the left corner. faced 19 shots in winning his empty net with 2:16 to play. A stiff neck sidelined Tampa Gilchrist scored the Detroit Lapointe immediately whipped league-high 27th game, Bay right wing Dino Ciccarelli.
New York Islanders 7,
goals and Steve Yzerman had a pass to the slot that Murphy although he got help in the The NHL's ninth all-time lead­
Tampa Bay 1 
three assists. put in for his fifth goal. opening moments when Niklas ing goal scorer (597) has 11 Osgood, who blanked Shanahan scored his 20th Sundstrom banged a shot off Zigmund Palffy and Hobert goals this season. Washington 2-0 in his last goal on a power play 11:32 the post. Reichel scored two goals 
Philadelphia 3,start Sunday, has four shutouts into the third when he slapped Cloutier, who had a 1.38 apiece as the New York Montreal 3 (OT) 

this season and 1 R in his a shot from the left circle past goals against average, opened Islanders snapped an 11-game career. Burke. Gilchrist added his first the door for New Jersey by giv­winless streak with a 7-1 win Petr Svoboda had a goal and 
Scan Burke started in the goal since Dec. 12 to finish the ing up a goal to Carpenter on Wednesday night over the assisted on Philadelphia's two Vancouver net and gave up scoring with 2:58 to play. an unscreened shot from the Tampa Bay Lightning. others as the Flyers and the two goals on 14 shots before blue line at 6:35. Palffy added two assists and Montreal Canadiens skated to
New Jersey 4,

he was replaced by Arturs lrbe Holik's team-high 19th goal goaltender Wade Flaherty a 3-3 tie Wednesday night.
New York Rangers 1

after Murphy's goal in the sec­developed after Devils defense­stopped 21 shots for New York. Brian Savage and Martin ond period. lrbe also gave up Bob Carpenter and Bobby man Lyle Odelein knocked Last Saturday, Islanders gen­Rucinsky each had a goal and two goals on 14 shots. Holik scored in a 1:31 first­down Wayne Gretzky in center eral manager Mike Milbury an assist for Montreal, while 
Maltby scored the only goal period span and the New ice. A shot from the left point had alerted coach Hick Vincent Damphousse added of the first period. Gilchrist Jersey Devils sent rookie goal­by defenseman Brad Bowness that his job was in two assists as the Canadiens tipped Yzerman's centering tender Dan Cloutier to the Bombardir hit off the skate of jeopardy if the team continued remained unbeaten in their pass to the left slot. where bench in beating the New York a defenseman and went to to slide. last eight road games (6-0-2). 
The club is 1-1-1 since Montreal remained winless Milbury's warning. New York in its last six games against the 
snapped a 10-game losing Flyers (0-3-3), and hasn't won streak with a 1-1 tie Monday in Philadelphia since Oct. 25, Associated Press Penguins played Wednesday son. The Penguins almost cer­night against Detroit. 1992 (0-8-2). 
Pens' Nedved cleared to~ play 
First-period goals by Bryan Savage tied the game 3-3
night. "We like Petr very much, tainly would not have risked PITTSBURGII and this is great news for us." losing him to waivers. Smolinski, Dane Jackson and exactly one minute after An arbitrator ruled The NHL and the Players Nedved turned down a $14 Kenny Jonsson helped New Svoboda had given the Flyers Wndnesday that holdout center Association each pleaded their million, five-year offer from the York equal its best single-game the lead in the third period. 
production during the' lengthy Savage's slapshot from thePetr Nedved can return to the case in a conference call Penguins before the season 
NHL this season without clear­Tuesday. began. skid that saw the Islanders top of the right faceoff circle ing waivers. The league ruled in late Marino said he also is opti­score just once seven times. trickled in off Flyers goalie 
Reichel scored on a second-Garth Snow at 11:52.
But before Nedved can return. December that Nedved, whose mistic that All-Star right wing the Pittsburgh Penguins must rights belong to the Penguins, Jaromir Jagr will reach terms first sign him to a contract. The violated its labor agreement by on a multi-year contract exten­two were $900.000 apart in playing four games last fall for sion, perhaps as early as this their most recent negotiations. Novy Jicin, a low-level Czech weekend. 
Penguins co-owner Hoger team. Jagr and the Penguins were Marino said the ruling could The union argued that the close to reaching a $53 million, speed up the protracted negoti­games shouldn't count because seven-year contract last month ations with Nedved, who. at 26. he did not have a professional when Paul Kariya and Eric should be in the prime of his contract. Lindros each signed deals worth career. If the ruling had gone against more than $8 million a season. 
"That's great news," Marino Nedved. he likely would not Jagr then decided he didn't said in Boston. where the have played in the NHL this sea-want to agree to so long a deal. 
LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS 
'98 LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS EAMS
1 
Zahm • Farley • RegincJ 


.. 
Cavanaugh • Stanford • Sttl Ed's Carroll • Lewis Lyons • Morrissey Pangborn • Fisher • Holy C:ross Dillon • Badin Howard • Alumni KnoH • LeMons • Pasquerillc:1 East Walsh • Sorin Siegfried • Pasquerilla Weest O'Neill • McGlinn 

. : 
Keenan • Breen-Phillips • McC,andless Welsh Family • Keough 
The Deadline for Entering a Team is Monday, January 19. Call 1-61 00 for the Name of Your Hall Representative. 
Friday, january 23, 1998 • 7:00PM-4:00AM • joyce Center ·• 631-6100 
All LNO Medals Were Donated by the Notre Dame Alumni Association All T-Shirts Were Donated by <J:.~ 


--~------·-~ 

page 18 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, January 15, 1998 
• JOCK STRIP 

The real winners and losers in sports for 1997 
By JOHN COPPOLELLA 
Spor~1 Writer 
As sports history turns another page into 1998, we must look baek at 1997 and recognize those who shaped the year-for better or for worse. To that end, I would like to issue the First Annual Coppolella Sports Awards (flACSA). Thes(~ awards are based on the way T saw things this year and apply to national. eollegiate, and local sports: 
Most Annoying World Champions: Green Bay Packers I Should Have Resigned/Been Fired Before the Season Began: Barry Switzer 
I Should Not HaVI~ Trind To Kill PJ Cal'lesimo: Latrell Sprewell (to be prnsented by last year's winner, Rod Strickland) 
I Should Quit Everything Else But Basketball, Espndally Movies: Shaquille O'Neal 
Best Dr<'ssed: Dennis Bodman 
Most Selfish Athlete: Allen Iverson 

Money And Fame, Now!: Scottie Pippen 
Most Overrated Athlete: Shawn Kemp 
Most Overpaid Athlete: Albert Belle 
We Should Move To North Carolina/Tennessee: 
Montreal Expos  
We  Should  Not  Have  Moved  to  North  
Carolina/Tennessee  (tie):  Carolina  
Hurricanes/Tennessee Oilers  

I Should Have Stayed Retired: Mike Keenan It's All About The Benjamins (tie): Paul Kariya/Sergei Fedorov 
One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest: Dominick Hasek 
Most Intense Pro Boxer (runner-up to previous award): l\fike Tyson Most Annoying College Football Player: Peyton Mmming Most Undeserving College National Champion: Nebraska Cornhuskers Most Overrated College Football Team: uh ... never mind 
Honor Code College Football Team of the Year: Penn State Nittany Lions Most Unexpected National Championship: Arizona Wildcats 
Let The Freak Show Begin: Marv Albert 
Notre Dame Team of the Year (tie): Women's Soccer/Women's Basketball Notre Dame Coach of the Year (tie): Muffet McGraw/Paul Manieri Notre Dame Player of the Year (tie): Pat Garrity/Kate Sobrero 
Notre Dame Student Athlete of the Year: Steve Noble 
Notre Dame Most Underapprociattld Athlete: Ron Powlus Notre Dame Alumnus In The News: Eddie DeBartolo, Jr. Notre Dame Alumnus Who Took The Most Heat: Hick Mirer Notre Damn Alumnus Who Rose To The Occasion: Craig Counsel~ 

W. B-ball 
continued from page 20 
Dnspitn tho win. McGraw felt the performance left mueh to be fh~sired. 
"I thought mentally that we did not play well. The turnovers really hurt us later on. We didn't play a smart bas­ketball game and we're a very smart team. and that's surpris­ing. but it's something that we ean fix very easily." 
Notre Dame was led by Hiley, who had her third consecutive double-double with 29 points and 12 rebounds. Hiley. recent-


The Observer/John Dailey Mollie Peirick's three-point play sparked an Irish run that gave them a seven-point halftime lead. 

fiTNf~~ ~CNfDULf ~PI!IN6 '98 JOl'Cf CfNTfl! CLA~~(~** 

4:15-5:15  
2  4:15-5:15  
3  5:25-6:25  
4  5:25-6:25  
5  3:45-4:45  
6  3:45-4:45  
7  5:30-6:30  
8  5:30-6:15  
9  6:30-7:15 am  
10  12:15-12:45  
11  "= 15-5:15  
12  5:25-6:25  
13  7:45-8:30 am  
14  12:15-12:45  
15  3:45-4:45  
16  5:30-6:30  
17  5:20-6:05  
18  4:40-5:30  
19  5:35-5:55  
20  6:05-6:55  
21  12:15-12:45  
22  6:45-7:45  

STEP Gym 1 
Hi Intensity Gym2 
STEP Gym I 
Lo Impact Gym2 
STEP Gym 1 
Hi Intensity Gym2 
STEP Gym 1 
Flex & Tone Gym2 I!OCKNf CLA~~(~ 
STEP 301 
STEP 301 
STEP 301 
STEP 301 
STEP 301 
Flex & Tone 301 
AeroStep 301 
STEP 301 
Hi Intensity 301 
STEP 301 
All Abs 301 
Hi Intensity 301 
ROLf~ CLA~~f~ 
Aquacise Aquacise 
M/W M/W M/W M/W T/Th T/Th T/Th T/Th 
M/W/F M/W/F M/W/F M/W T/Th T/Th T/Th T/Th F Su Su Su 
MIWIF 
T/Th $25 $20 $25 $20 $25 $20 $25 $20 
$25 $25 $35 $25 $25 $25 $25 $25 $12 $12 $12 $12 
$20 $20 

Sign-ups begin Thursday. January 15, 7:30am @ RecSports located in the Joyce Center. Classes begin Monday, January 19. Minimum of 12 registrants to begin class. Schedule is subject to change. **Joyce Center classes will move to the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center beginning February 16. 
f..~, 

ly named Big East eo-rookie of the week for her performances over the semester break, went 11 of 14 from the field and 5 for 7 from the free-throw line. 
"Knowing the people who left last year and how great they were, I really didn't expeet I'd eome in and do this well." Hiley said. ''I'm really happy with it." 
Riley was paced by Peiriek, who also had a career high with 23 points. Ivey and McMillen chipped in with 17 and nine points to round out the Irish cast. For West Virginia, Burbridge had 18 points to lead live players in double ligures. The Mountaineers were nearly perfect from the line, shooting 20 for 21. The WVU defense also had an above average night, grabbing 33 rebounds and 13 steals. 
MeGraw believed that West Virginia was among the best teams in the conference that the team had faced so far. "I think Miami was the most tal­ented team that we beat, and Georgetown was talented also, but West Virginia's a better basket0all team." With the loss, the Mountaineers fall to 7­7 on season and 3-4 in the eon­ferenee. 
The Irish, now 11-4 on the season and 5-2 in Big East play, will travel eastward to faee Boston College and Syracuse in a two-game conference road trip. 
The Observer/John Dailey 

Junior Phil Hickey will center the Irish as they take to the court tonight. 
M. 8-ball 
continued from page 20 
performances of the season in a 91-76 route of Rutgers on Sunday. Garrity was his nor­mal self with 32 points, but it was his supporting cast that made the dil'ferenec against the Scarlet Knights. 
Center Phil lliekp,y matched a eareer-high with 16 points, and Keith Friel (12 points on four three-pointers) and Antoni Wyche (11) proved to be a 
Our Sensational Outlook Centers Around Your Vision 
We're the Information Technology Group (lTG) of NOVUS Services and it's our responsibility to provide the technical support behind Discover, Private Issue, and Bravo credit cards. And with 48 million cardmembers and a large merchant network, this is no small task. But with strong corporate support, 
-n-· ~··· Novus Services, Inc., Human Resources, . IT Recruiter, 2500 Lake Cook Road,1\~ ~~~ I , Riverwoods, IL 60015, ~~· Fax: (847) 405-1388 
lethal one-two puneh at shoot­ing guard. 
"For us to be suceossful, it is imperative that those guys step up for us in eritical situations," said eoaeh John MacLeod. "We cannot afford to put all the pressure on Pat. It is important that guys like Phil Hickey, Antoni Wyehe, Knith Friel, and !Vtartin lngelsby step up and help him out." 
Given the magnitude of tonight's contest and Notre Dame's recent traek record in big games, the Irish will need all the help they ean get. 

a state-of-the-art technical environment, and talented team-oriented 
professionals who love what they do, we accomplish some pretty 
amazing feats. 

As we move forward, we're looking for you. Currently, our needs call for Computer 
Science and MIS individuals with experience in any of the following areas: 
COBOL • C • C++ • JAVA • HTML • VSAM • DB/2 • CICS JCL • OS/2 PM • UNIX • AIX • Oracle 
Please join us at the: 
1998 SUMMERONTERNSHIP JOB FAIR Thursday, January 22nd • 1:30pm-4:30pm University of Notre Dame Joyce Center Concourse, 2nd Fir. 
We offer excellent salaries and benefits, including 401 K, profit sharing, and tuition reimbursement, accompanied by an array of workplace amenities and activities for your enjoyment. Our incredible facility in north suburban Riverwoods features a health club full-service cafeteria, sundries store with dry cleaning services, ATM, softball field, voll~yball court, jogging path, and much more. If unable to attend, please send resume to: 
~NOVUS
~SERVICES 
Taking charge in achanging world. 
www.novusnet.com 
Equal Opportunity Employer MIFIDN 
..
...,,. 

.. 
-~ 

Thursday, January 15, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 19 




a Form of Buddhism 
27 Two-wheeler. briefly
9 Currier or lves 28 "Lord of the
10 Start playing. 
Fl1es" leader
briefly 29 Object of
11 Tight gripper contemplation?
12 --~ Lacoste 30 Business
15 M1deast nation 17 .. ___ -kleine 32 Bullwinkle. for one
Nachtmusik" 22 God shown w1th 
35 Waters off Hong a burning torch 
Kong 
36 Green shade23 "Fairy tales" 38 Pop star. say
=+::+=+-:-1 24 Utah lilies 
-:-+:-:+=+-:-1 25 Two-wheeler 39 Wine orders 26 L1queur flavor 41 Bluenose 
@ 

Swing & Ice Skati llpm-lam @ JACC 
I"\'( N~I"\E IS DILBERT. 
YES, l CAN PROVE IT; I Hf:I..VE f:l.. ?I\5S?ORT AND f>... OR.lVt.~S LICENSE. 

u H0Ufl..5 lf>..TE.R ... 

0~-------------------------i 
~ r.m'AY, 
~ ~:: P\ 

~ ---.... 
c::::====--....J 

NOJ 1 CA.~'T 
?RO\IE. I'VE. Nt.VEP.. ~EE~ 
CLONt.O!! 

Answers to any three clues in th1s puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-56ci6 (75c per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

YOUR HOROSCOPE 
Arles:Your competitors are no match for you. Recognizing this, they are unlikely to compete today. You exhale viable ideas and strate­gies with each breath. 
Taurus:Turn inward from a cruel world and find ways to beau­tify yourself or enhance your home. Buy yourself a gift today. Throwing a little money around makes you feel better. even if it doesn't solve a problem. 
Gemini:This is a good day to socialize with others like yourself. You see your image reflected posi­tively by people who like and understand you. A long term rela­tionship could develop rrom the ini­tiative you take today. 
Cancer:This could be a ravorable day for moneymaking activities. The broader your perspective, the better your chances for success. Hiding behind your opinions is no substitute for understanding the heart of the matter. 
Leo:The spotlight is on you today. Your public goes wild with applause over your beauty, your accomplishments, and your poten­tial. Do not disappoint those who have such high expectations for you. 
Virgo:A smoothly running pro­ject hits an unseen obstacle. A quick look at the details should tell you exactly what has gone wrong. Make sure your people skills are sharpened and ready to use. 1/15/98 Libra:Friends and aquain­tances are able to help you today. Temper someone else's extrava­gant ideas with your good judge­ment. This is one of those days when the sum is much greater than its parts. 
Scorpio:Employers or judges may seem profoundly unfair in their demands and decisions, but you are powerless today. Do your best with what remains to you. If you are the good soldier or model employee. there's nothing to worry about. 
Sagittarius:This is a favorable day to plan a trip. Even if you have to lower your standards to match your budget, your expectations are high. You are adaptable enough to have fun with whatever comes your way today. 
Capricorn:Secret dealings violate your sense of ethics, but they might be the only way to get the job done. Wear your poker face until it starts to hurt. Leave yourself an easy way out just in case it all comes apart. 
Aquarius:Submerge your ego today and put your back into a team effort. The solo hotshot is only going to ruin things ror everyone. A project takes on a life of its own as it nears completion. 1/15/98 
Pisces:This is a favorable time to 
turn your life around. If you begin a 
routine today, there is a better 
chance you will stay with it. 
Organize your desk, start a diet. or 
address a medical condition that 
you have been avoiding. 


Saturda 
Jw.:. 
,0.:_·._ 

~ "'.', 
..,~ENr,i'IJ:. ·'"~"'· 
@> Cu.shir:tg 
42 Lighting spec1alist. informally? 
44 Crescents 45 Betting game 46 Tolstoy hero 47 Prefix with 
culture 48 "Yikesl" 
49 Son, usually 
50 Farm team 
53 .. --a Joke, 
Son" (1947 fliCk) 54 Big inits. 1n credit reporting 
.. 
" 
., 

SPORTS 
page 20 
• WOMEN's BASKETBALL 
Irish plateau with win ov 
than we did."
Big East rival defeated 
After the lead see-sawed back and forth, Peirick converted a three-pointwith exceptional play play to give the Irish a two point lead. The play sparked a short 5-0 rally to giveofRiley and Peirick the team a 39-32 lead at the end of the 
half.
By BILL HART While Hiley's performance in the paint
Sports Wri1er 
gave the Irish the lead, the Mountaineers' perimeter shooting kept them in theIt may not have been as pretty as other game. In the first half, the visitors went 6recent games, but for any Fighting Irish for 15 from three-point range, with juniorfan. it was still a win. 
guard Hebecca Burnbridgc accounting for Despite a strong challenge by the visit­four of the completions. The Irish. on theing team, Notre Damn's women's basket­
other hand, went a dismal 0-9 from
ball team managed to extlmd their win­beyond the arc.
ning strPak to ~~ight games by defeating "It's an example of a lot of youth on theconference rival West Virginia 86-78. 
floor." McGraw remarked on the
AftPr Notre Damn scored its first basket turnovers in the first half. "The problemjust six seconds into the game, the next was that it was contagious to the upper­few points didn't come easy for the team. 
classmen."
West Virginia used a more aggressive 
Notre Dame started the second half
style of dP.I'ense than its Big East counter­
slowly, with the Mountaineers forcing
parts. in which it was able to take advan­four straight turnovers. Finally, a layuptage of some sloppy Irish passing. Five by junior Sheila McMillen two minutesminutes into the contest, the two teams into the half broke the Irish drought.
were knottnd at six points apiece. 
Sophomore Niele lvey converted anotherAfter Notre Dame used up a 20-second three-point play to stretch the lead to 12timeout, senior guard Mollie Peiriek took 
points before Notre Dame's perimeter
advantagf~ of a steal by converting an easy shooting came around. Two consecutive
layup. However, the Mountaineers 
three-pointers by Pcirick capped a 16-4answen~d with a three-pointer, a shot the run by the Irish in the first six minutes ofvisitors deprndrd on for the rest of the the half. 
game. 
However, the Mountaineers regainedHowever, whiln Notre Dame was unable their confidence, and started a run ofto answer from the perinwter, freshman their own. After bringing the game tophnnom Huth Hiley managed to help the within 10 points, Ivey sank a three-point­Irish hold their lead. By concentrating on er to keep the rally in check. But, withthe perimeter, Hiley was left wide open, 
6:44 remaining in the game, West

.. where she proceeded to keep battling for Virginia had cut the lead to six points. 
the rebounds. Even when the 
While the Mountaineers tried to hold onMountaineers triPd to cluster around her, until the end of the game, Hiley's domi­the 6'5" center still managed to get her nance in the paint combined with someshots off. By the end of the first half. 
well-timed perimeter shooting proved toHiley had tied her career high with 19 be too much for them. After two WVUpoints. 
freethrows cut the lead to four, another"I thought it took a superhuman effort three-pointer by McMillen kept the Irishfrom Huth to win the game for us," alive. Finally, two half-court passes to anMcGraw remarked. "We almost shot our­open Hiley clinched the game. 

selves out of it tonight, but we could have probably given it to Huth a little more Freshman center Ruth Riley led the Irish attack with exceptional play down low. 
see W. B-BALL I page 18 
• MEN'S BASKETBAll 

Team to face Big East rival WV 
By MIKE DAY Manner. "Our first priority is rebounds a contPst while dish­Sports Editor trying to win our confcrenco ing out 3.3 assists a game. 
games. We do realize that "lie has bnen tremendous for It's never too early to start games against the best teams us this snason," commented thinking about the postseason. are important in the long run." Mountainnnr coach Gale 
• Although Notre Dame could A year ago, the Mountaineers Catlett. "lin has been dominant certainly use a victory to stay were one of the true surprises at both ends of the floor, and as within the thick of the race in in college basketball, finishing a senior, ho has been a leader the Big East Six, the team is the season 21-10 to earn a spot for the younger guys on the also in desperate need of a win in the NIT. And with a 14-2. team." over a ranked team to remain mark this season. West Virginia Despite Owens' brilliance, in contention for either a NIT seems to have raised its game West Virginia is by no means a or NCAA berth. to another level. one man tnam. Snnior shooting 
So when the Irish take on the "They are one of the top guard Adrian Pledgor has been 20th-ranked West Virginia teams we will play this season," a plnasant surprise the last two
• Mountaineers tonight in said senior forward Pat Garrity. years aftor transforring from Morgantown, more will be rid­"We know we need to be at our George Wallaco State College ing on the outcome than the best when we go there since prior to his junior season. average league contest. they arc a good team and it's a Plodger i~> considrred one of 
With a 0-3 mark against tough place to play." the lnagun's most dangerous ranked teams this year. the The Mountaineers arc led by pure shooters, putting up 14.7 team realizes that at some all-everything forward Damian points a game on 54 JWrcent point in the season, it will need Owens. A three year starter. shooting. In addition, senior to put forth a strong showing the 6-foot-6, 215-pound for­point guard Greg Jones (11.8 
,. 
against a top-notch team if it ward has emerged as one of ppg) and forward Marcus hopes to receive consideration the league's top players in his Goren (9.3) h<1ve been consis­from the tournament commit­senior season. tent all year long for the tees. In 16 games, Owens has Mountaineers. 
"That isn't something that we averaged a team-best 19.8 Meanwhile, thn Irish are really focus on, but it probably points per game on 57 percent coming ofT one of their best is in the back of our minds," shooting. The all-Big East can­said senior forward Derek didate also pulls down 7.4 seeM. B-BALL I page 18 

Men's Basketball Hockey, at West Virginia, 
at Bowling Green, 
• The year in Irish sports 
Tonight, 7 p.m. 

January 24, 7 p.m. 
see page 18 Women's Basketball· 
Swimming and Diving, at at Boston College, 
Kalamazoo, 
• Major League Baseball updates January 17,2 p.m. 
Tonight, 7 p.m. 
see page 14 








