• Art exhibits and college courses will 
• A former member of the Fugees has a new solo 
Wednesday
explore the connection ofwomen, nature and 
album out and Scene reviews it. Find out if it is 
landscapre this year. 
worth your money to buy it. 
SEPTEMBER 
Scene·10-11 9, 1998 
Women's News • 3 




Licensed to latte 
By CHRISTINE KRALY 
New!! Writer 
Hridgnt McCuin~·s Filling Station was onct~ a place synonymous with tnnnagn rebellion and intoxicatmlunderrlassmen. 
Tlwrn was a limn wlwn anxious freshmen lirwd up outsidn tlw famous establishment to nxuhnranlly (not to mention. illegally) chris­tnn llwir first ynar at sd10ol. That time is no morn. 
Soon tlw flowing alcohol, taps and lingering "Bridgl't's sludgn" will bn rnplaeed with the strong aroma of ynt anothnr addictivn bnvPr­agn-cof'fi~n. 
What was ont:l' a placn whern eager stu­dPnts gat.lwn~d to dancn and lnt loose. often undPr tlw influnncP of illegally-purchased alcohol, will soon takn on a very di!Torent farn. Tlw bar, whi<:h has been shut down sine!~ its raid this past January, is curnmtly !wing rnnovated into a colTon house, now nanwd Molly Md;uin~·s. 
"Molly is Bridgnt's little sistnr, and she's not 2 I yet." said KarPn Bauor, who sharns a sole proprintorship of thn !$tablishmnnt with her husband. Indiana statn n~prns1mtativo Patrick Baw~r. 
"[Thn establishmnntl is no longor going to involvn tlw saln of alcohol," said Susan Snbnrtson. prosecutor to the Indiana Alcoholic Beveragn Commission. 
The bar, Snbertson says, was shut down in .January dun to "a sories of complaints I most­ly anonymous]" dealing with the bar's pres­!mcP of undPrage drinkors. 
Snhnrtson also said that shf1 has "no ollieial vPrilir.alion that NotrP Damn was om~ Ithat mrnplainPdl." 
see MOLLY I page 4 


Feminist Collective aims high 
By M. SHANNON RYAN 
Saint Mary's Editor 
The issue of sexuality hPeanw a main topic of eon­vPrsation last spring among Saint Mary's studnnts, as they nncountPrnd a carnpus-wido confrontation ovnr tho approval of an organization supporting hornosPxuals. 
This y~~a r. the Fern in is t CollPctivP is hoping to nnd the ronlrov1~rsy which surround­nd ThP Alliane(~, but to kPPp l.lw discussion !lowing. 
"We'rp still rPally new," said coordinator Knlly Curtis n1gard in g the group w hie h gairwd r.lub rnr.ognition last March. "Wn'rn just trying to gnt things off thn ground. IClubl rneognition lfrom Board of c;ovornance I came nHLlly Iatn in th n y!Htr, but really our main goal N for mP, as a senior and knowing it's my last ynar N is to sen this organization gnt a good solid grounding." 
Thn Feminist Collective, which evolved after president Marilou Eldred denied approval for The Alliance, will aim toward the same goals set last spring. 
With "a more formal struc­ture after recognition, ... a good solid backing" and strong interest expressed at activities night, according to Curtis, the organization will be well under way after their 

first mnPting Wednesday in the Women's Hesource Center at 9 p.m. in Le Mans Hall. 
Aeeording to the Feminist Collective's mission state­mont, the group is a "student organization which provides active, visible and consistent support to students con­fronting issuos around sexu­ality in their lives, this includes, but is not limited to, sexual orientation and gender identity." 
Unlike The Alliance, the Feminist Colleetive more explieitly encourages hetero­sexual students as well as homosexuals to partake in diseussions. The Feminist Colleetive also states more explicitly its dedication to women's issues. 
"We want everyone to feel comfortable enough to come together to discuss any issue," said Feminist Collective correspondent Claudia Velasco. 
Still, group members know that because sexuality is a sensitive and sometimes ignored subject, they will face challenges as they try to incorporate their mission into students' lives. 
"We're fighting a stereo­typo," said Curtis. "It's not a group [strictly] of or for les­bian women. It's not just a group for homosexuals. It's not to provide a space for les­bian women, but a space for 
see SMC I page 6 

National magazine features Woo speech 
By MOLLY NIKOLAS 
News Writer 
When she gave her com­mencement address at Holy Cross College in the spring, Carolyn Woo, Dean of the 
College of Business Admin-istra­tion, had no idea that her words would wind up in the national 

spotlight. Carolyn Woo w 0 0 's speech was published in the latest issue of Vital Speeches of the Day, a bi­monthly magazine that regular­
ly features 8 leaders and their orations. The publication pro­vides readers with the "best 
thoughts of the best minds on current national problems." 
"I was actually very sur­prised," Woo said regarding the publication of her speech. "I didn't even know it was going 
to bo published until I got my 
copy lofthe Aug. 15 issue]." 
The positivo nwssagns con­tained in the spneeh and the cooperative building idnas make it vital advien for anyone who wishes to live to their full capabilities, said Woo. 
She indicated that the main rnessag11 of hnr spneeh was to .eneouragn nvnryono to "livn up to their fullest potential, and to attend to the capacity of thoso around them." She also emphasized that people shoul not "use the word 'can't' as 
often." 
In thn speech, Woo also relayed her personal rnnthod for achieving onn's full poton­tial. 
"Go to the grotto, say a praynr, and then just do it!" she said. 
Woo described two important necessities for suecoss: living up to your fullest pott~ntial and helping your team or communi­ty live up to their fullest potnn­
see WOO I page 6 

page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 


Getting Out 
Sometimes I can almost remember the way my sophomore year smelled -a mix of olive oil, red wine and the dust of Castilla­La Mancha. I close my eyes and I see myself walking down cool 
Sarah Dylagcobblestone streets 
Scene Editor
beneath a sky so blue and high that it hurts my eyes. I can feel the warmth of the sun burning my back, hear the rush of the river, taste salty tortilla sandwiches, smell the sting of smoky and crowded bars and feel the music of the Spanish language rolling off of my tongue. 
Two years later, I can still imagine myself in Toledo, Spain, and I would return in a minute if someone magically put a free plane ticket in my hand. I would, without question, sacrifice another glorious year beneath the golden glow of the dome for a year of lazy cafes, noisy discotecas, animat­ed conversation, bullfights, siestas and Don Quixote. I would suffer the culture shock, the homesickness and miss out on another football season if it meant I could once again study abroad. 
Being a senior, however, makes that impossible and so I can only do the next best thing -tell the rest of you to get out of this place. For freshmen, this may seem like an especially insane and irrational idea. Having just gotten comfortable with your new life here at Notre Dame, the thought of starting over in a foreign country might make you at least a little nauseous. After all, now that you've made it this far, why leave? 
But leaving Notre Dame for a year was the best decision I have made since arriving on campus for freshmen orientation. Not only did I get to appreciate the differences of another culture, but I realized the impor­tance of my own culture and family-my real family and the "Notre Dame family." I learned that Notre Dame extends beyond South Bend and that learning is much more valuable when it takes place outside of the classroom. 
Yes, I stumbled when I tried to learn the new language and yes, I got homesick and I felt sometimes like I missed out on impor­tant events that took place here. But, in my own idealistic mind, I like to believe that I took some piece of home with me wherever I traveled and, even better, that I brought a piece of Spain back to share with my friends and family when I returned here. 
Notre Dame is, unquestionably, a special place and leaving for a year is not an easy thing to do. It is also, I realize, not some­thing that everyone wants to or can do, but for anyone even considering one of Notre Dame's study abroad programs, I cannot think of one reason not to do it. Fear of the unknown stops too many people from hav­ing incredible experiences, but the hesita­tion, doubt and fear that may accompany making a decision to study abroad cannot even begin to equal the value of the experi­ence. 
Tomorrow's Scene section will highlight the various study abroad options available to student's here. If the thought of getting to know and understand another culture sparks any twinge of interest, I hope you will read the articles and contact the 

Wednesday, September 9, 1998
The Observer· INSIDE 



utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Nelson Mandela to receive honorary degree 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 
Fifty-five years after 6,000 Harvard students watched British Prime Minister Winston Churchill receive an honorary degree in a special ceremony in Sanders Theatre, more than 10,000 Harvard students will watch as Nelson Mandela is awarded the same honor in Tercentenary Theatre Sept. 18. 
The 80-year-old South African presi­dent and co-recipient of the 1993 Nobel Peace Prize will be the third person in the university's history to receive an honorary degree outside of Commencement or a celebration of a university anniversary. 
"We've given hundreds of honorary degrees, but this is a rare event," said university spokesperson Alex Huppe. 
Harvard first awarded such an hon­orary degree April 3, 1776 to George Washington, who was then general of the American forces in the Revolutionary War. 


The Board of Overseers had previ­ously invited Mandela to deliver the Commencement Day address and receive an honorary degree each year since he became president of South Africa in 1994, but he was never able to attend. 
"When we learned he was coming to America for what will probably be his last time as president, we hoped he would be able to come," said universi­ty Marshal Richard M. Hunt. 
Mandela will be joined at the 4:30 p.m. ceremony by directors of the recently formed Harvard Center of International Development [HCIDJ -a joint venture of the Kennedy School of Government [KSG] and the Harvard Institute for International Development [HIID] -which also worked to bring him to Cambridge. 
Jeffrey D. Sachs, director of both I-HID and 1-ICID, said Mandela's appearance at Harvard will give him and his colleagues the opportunity to launch HCID's work on African eco­nomic development. 
Both Sachs, who is also the Stone Professor of International Trade at the KSG, and Kwesi Botchwey, the director of the program on African Development at the 1-ICID, will speak at the event. 
"We are extremely grateful that President Mandela accepted the invita­tion from Harvard," Sachs wrote in an e-mail message. 
• iJNIVERSITV OF VIRGINIA 
President to file charges against frats 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. 
Dean of Students Robert T. Canevari said Monday he will file university judiciary committee charges against several fraternities, stemming from violations of university and fra­ternity standards of conduct that occurred during parties over the weekend. The charges will deal with underage drinking violations, illegal membership recruitment and may include other violations, Canevari said. "We are taking this information and making cases to take tcrthe UJC," he said. "I think there needs to be consequences for negative behav­ior." lie added that these violations by fraternities are "dis­couraging.""All of us were hoping this year might be differ­ent," Canevari said. He also said authorities outside the uni­versity may be considering the violations, but would not comment specifically. "If I got a phone call one night and a group said they had just raided five fraternity houses, it wouldn't surprise me," he added. 
• UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY 
Career Center a good source for jobs 
LEXINGTON, Ky. 
It's a good year to be graduating, labor experts say. "This is one of the best employment periods since the early 1980s," said Diane Kohler, senior associate director at the UK Career Center. Kohler called it a "captive mar­ket'' for students, where companies come to campus to interview and find new employees. Chad Sherwood, who graduated last May with a degree in computer science, reaped the benefits of the booming economy in June. Three months after submitting his resume to the Lexington-based Jockey Club, a leader in the thorough­bred breeding industry, at a Career Center job fair, he received an offer for a programming job with a salary in the mid-$20,000 range. 'The job fair was the only useful thing UK ever did for me," he said with a laugh. Still, Kohler warned against complacency. "The student who knows what he wants, researches the job market and takes advantages of the resources of the Career Center will find an excellent job market," she said. 

• ONTARIO UNIVERSITY 
New Minister eliminates scholarship 
ST. CATHARINES, Ontario 

It's a story of disappearing scholarships. "It's like trying to grab smoke -it's not there," says Liberal Leader Dalton McGuinty. In February 1997, then provincial Education Minister John Snobelen announced a $20-million scholar­ship fund that would have provided thousands of Ontario's university and college students with free tuition this year. His replacement, Minister Dave Johnson axed the scholar­ship, but forgot to tell students. The Ontario Merit Scholarship was to provide students whose marks were in the top two percent with free tuition as way of cushioning the latest 10 percent tuition fee increase. About 8,000 Ontario university students would have benefited from thl' scholarship. McGuinty [Ottawa South MPP) says, "I couldn't think of a more cynical ploy on the part of this government ... They held out this shiny little bobble and now we discover it's not there." 
•MIT 

Student's death will affect Greek life 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 

Last fall, MIT made national headlines when a first-year student died from binge drinking at a campus fraternity party. His fraternity brothers allegedly left him in the base­ment to choke on his own vomit, and the family is threaten­ing to sue. This year, the elite science and technology school is taking drastic steps to prevent another tragedy. In a letter this summer announcing the most drastic in a series of changes, MIT President Charles M. Vest said that in the fall of 2001 all first-year students would be housed on campus. For the nearly 2,000 MIT undergraduates who participate in the school's Greek system, the death of Scott Krueger has meant a dramatic change in their residential lives. Before Krueger's death, says lido Gilon -who presided over the Institute's Inter-fraternity Council last year -fraternity life was "very social and a lot of fun -very upbeat." But Gilon says that is no longer the case. Pressure from the MIT 
· administration -in the form of disciplinary action -has reshaped Greek life 
International Studies Office for more infor­
mation. 
You have the rest of your life to be afraid 
and the rest of your life to follow a set plan. 
Take a year, live a life of no regrets and get 
out of here. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  TooAv's STAFF  
News  Scene  
Colleen McCarthy  Kristi Klitsch  
Christine Kraly  Graphics  
Chris Lawler  Mark Higgins  
Sports  Production  
Allison Krilla  Kathleen O'Brien  
Kathleen O'Brien  Lab Tech  
Viewpoint  Bret Hogan  
Eddie Llull  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday excepr during exam and vacalion periods. The Observer is a member of the A~llociared Press. All rcproducrion righn. arc reserved. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
H L 
Tuesd~y (f 68 49 Wednesday (f 76 50 Thursday (f 81 57 Friday (fr. 78 60 
Satur~ay ;'pt"~ 74 55 
~~->·.,.AJ"'''~/· "":./ 
; /'''''' 
a~~uuu q. ~ u
','' ... ' '''' :. ...... ·=·.:~:·.::=· -::..-::..-:.. 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
V1a Associated Press GraphicsNsl 

• NATIONAL WEATHER 

~ Wedaesdars te1perarures 

Ann Arbor 68 47 Duluth 70 52 Madison 73 47 Boise 79 55 Fargo 80 61 Malibu 73 64 Boulder 86 56 Helena 78 51 Seattle 66 52 Columbus 68 46 Las Vegas 1 00 78 Topeka 80 56 Detroit 66 48 Lincoln 84 60 Tucson 98 74 

----~~----­
page 3 
' 



omens 
ews
Wednesday, September 9, 1998 

WOMEN AND LANDSCAPE 
Fe01inine perspectives unveiled in Moreau Gallery 
Class uncovers nature of women 
By LISA MAXBAUER Wonlt'n's Nnv; Wrircr 
ThP world oiTers lessons which aro lnarnnd outsidn t.lw walls ol' any institution, and dnlivnrnd with words that ran not. IH' nasily transcrihnd. TIH~se silnnt under­standings an~ rPt.ained through limn and varied humanity. 
tl!w such IPsson surrounds tlw roles ol' rnnn and womPn. I!PducPd to simpln tnrms: Mnn an1 culturo; WomPn an• natun•. Tlwy arn nitlwr Mothnr l~art.h. or Fa llw r TimI'. 
Whilt• tht~sl' lalwls limit individualism, such agn-old concepts may spPak truths about who onn is and how on<' percPivns his or lwr surroundings. 
This sPmPstPr, Notre llanw and Saint Mary's cam­pusns an~ participating in an arna art nxhibition enti­t.IPd "ThP Natun• ol' l.andscapn." Thn Saint Mary's phi­losophy dPpartnH'nt has gnnnratnd a class to nxplorn tlw issups surfacing within tlwsP nxhibitions. This coursP, "l.andscapPs and tlw Anwrit:an ldPntity," rP!lPt'l.s upon tlw intnrat'lions lwtwnnn visions ol' the spar<' p<'opln inhabit and their understandings of' who tlwy arP. 
"I don't think naturP imposes anything on us," said 
Ann Clark. tlw h !' e a u s !' "wlwn wt• us!' 
Ll!t• word 
nat.un• wn always have a 
p a r l i r u I a r t'OilSlrut'l in mind." 
Clark admit­ted that tlw rtdationships 
hntwenn wonwn and nature bncorne more complex when a person discovers the insight of 18th century philosopher. Simono de B1muvoir's words: "women arc made, not born." 
Clark turned to history's treatment of these ambigu­ous terms to understand thnir relationship today. Bousseau lwlieved women were troublesome. Clark descrilwd Houssmw's vinw of women as "needing lam­ing, twnding dvilizing, nnmling clear boundaries put around tlwm, nnt)ding cultivation." lntnrestingly the word "land" can be substituted f(Jr the word "woman" in this dt1St:ription. for a similar moaning. Sinee histo­ry has rnad Lhn words "woman" and "land" as analo­gous, tlw concepts of naturn and femininity have 

By JESSICA DELGADO Nt·w,Wrilt·r 
l.andscapPs art' not simply natural sur­roundings. Tlwy art' considorPd by some tlw sorial and political environnwnls humans construct through thnir actions. Throughout South Bnnd. stwtm art gallnrins art' participating in "Tho Naturn on l.andscapt•" rngional exhibition brought about by tlw Cultural Institute. This broad tlwll!P allows Parh of tlw seven gallnries involvt~d ront:Pntratn and t1neompass issuns sensilivP to thnir own institutional mwds. 
OnP Pxhibilion features an imagn trans­fnrn~d from a 1940's moviP, to a whiln, veil­likn chilTon. liP!'!' lhrnn images of an iden­tical woman is standing staring straight alwad with a gun in hnr ld't hand and ciga­rPttP turknd tight bntwnen lwr lips. Although tlw imagn of tlw woman is silnnt, its Pnnrgy communicatns a rich message. Tlw gun in hPr hand could bo used to sym­holizt~ pownr or a l'nPiing of control without !'Paring lwr surroundings. 
This tPmporary installation displaynd in tlw Morpau (;allnry fnat.urns tlw work of Mary Both l~dnlson. Tlwsn three feminine imagns portrayed on whitn Vt)iling conveys orw woman's mnssage about her personal surroundings. Thn nxhihition. entitled, The ThnHtlntwdfl'hrnatnning Landscapes, was ehost)n by Mornau Galleries curator The Observer/Manuela Hernandez 
prol'nssor who ernatnd tlw coursn, 

example the "winning" of the'THE BASIC PREMISE WHICH AUTHORIZES OPPRESSION BASED ON 
west, resonates GENDER IS THE SAME IDEOLOGY WHICH SANCTIONS THE 
with metaphors 
OPPRESSION OF NATURE.' drawn from attitudes towards 
GRETA GAAJW women. It is ECOFEMINIST certain that 
some early i\mericans were "winning" womnn's hearts over their heroics of conquest. In the famous 1872 landscape painting "American Progress" by John Gast, the Greek goddess Progress leads men across the prairie dis­pdling darkness behind her. The painting displays feminine attraction as the central ideal motivating and justifying expansionists' aetfons. 
Annette Kolodny's book "The Land Before Her" explains how the "New World had long been given over to the fantasies of men... by the time European women began to arrive on the Atlantic shore." She concludes, "the wilderness masters the colonist, strip­ping ofT the garments of' civilization." 
This aggressive, and even sexual language, dictates bncome fused. 
If' the ideas of' women and land are intertwined, peo­ple begin to treat land as they do women. Clark under­stands that mnn sought to mold both the "feminine" creature and tho "savage" nature throughout history. 
Many landseapn paintings display European male ligures contnmplating their surroundings like a prob­lem nending fixing. Tlwy study nature as if' to reorga­nizt1 it. John Kinsey, author of "Plain Pictures" wrote about tlw expnrienees of explorers whose missions worn "to bring thn landscape into conformity with thnir notion of a pleasing scene." 
llistorically, men have also been concerned with civ­ilizing women by structuring their educational curric­ula. i\t a women's rights gathering in 1848 in Seneca Falls, New York, women gathered to compile their complaints against the injustices of men. Elizabeth Cady Stanton drafted "The Declaration of Sentiments" saying, "lie has dnnied her the facilities for obtaining a thorough education, all colleges being closed against lwr." It was in responst) to this type of injustice that Saint Mary's College was formed in 1844. 
In both exampins, tho eonqunst of land and the con­trol of education, men attempted to "redesign the produet" said Clark. 
Often the language used to express the act of civi­
lization, for a relationship between land and femininity which is much older than any of the 19th century references alluded to here. Clark suggests this odd verbal rela­tionship forces us to question whether it will remain intact in the future. 

The second half of Clark's course looks forward, focusing on a contemporary philosophy known as "Ecofeminism." Ecofeminism is an exploration of "eth­ical concerns about the survival and health of nature as it is linked to the similar coneerns of women" said Clark. 
"The ways we are harming the environment have some direct efl'ects on the lives of women," said Clark. "We must change our attitudes about women and nature" to secure the improved treatment of both, said Clark. She addnd that, "our culture thinks of itsnlf as independent of, and separate from the land it depends 
see NATURE I page 4 

sage. 
Marcia Hickard, Saint Mary's College art department chairwoman, is a key player in the success of these regional exhibitions. 
"It is the aim of these exhibitions to explore some of the underlying posi­
tions  we  assume when  wn  vinw  our  
world  through  landscape  art" said  
Rickard.  

The gallerins' work hopns to "raise our attention of how wn effect or look at our own landseape, and remind us that we crnate our own land and habi­tat," said Bowles. 
"/\11 of them, however, enhance our understanding of our natural world and roles in it. It is the naturn of land­scape art to do so," Hickard said of the exhibitions. 
Although somntirnns snen as fragile and unable to protect themselves from contemporary society, the woman in the veiled images is sending a mes­sage that women are tired of protect­ing themsnlves and being warned about their surroundings. 
Edelson's pictmn demonstrates the element of man versus nature. Using a classic conflict structure, Bowles questions how ironic "man versus nature" becomes when one realizes "it is women who embody nature." 
.Johnson Bowlns. Thn contemporary style of Mary Beth Edelson's Threatenedffhreatening Landscapes portrays contemporary the gallery blonds wnll with Edelson's mes-environments as sites of social and political debate. 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, September 9, 1998 
SMC 
continued from page 1 
all women." 
Velasco noted the various ways that she has benefited from the group. 
"This is a group of women who can talk and listen to each other despite race, reli­gion, ethnicity or sexual ori­entation," said Velasco. 
"I like it because I get to share in other people's expe­riences. I can talk about any­thing without worrying what other people think." 
Outside the office doors, students can leave questions or suggestions for group dis­cussion. At the beginning of the meeting, an officer reads the statement and the group talks about it "as long as it goes," Curtis said. 
Throughout the year, the Feminist Collective also plans to co-sponsor a speaker who will discuss with faculty and students ways to be sensitive to sexuality issues in the classroom. 
The overall goal, according to Curtis, is "dealing with the campus climate as a whole." 
"All women benefit from unity among women," she said. "Everyday heterosexual women face issues unique to being female and issues about their sexuality. Through discussion we can raise consciousness on this 
.Collective Goals 
I. Peer Support for Sexual Issues 
II. Promote Womens' Unity 
III. Foster Community and Social Justice 
I IV. Develop Leadership Abilities in an Open Forum Work with Other Groups to Achieve Issue Conciousness 


The Observer/Mark Higgins 

• COLORADO 
Teen shooting spree suspect in custody 
Associated Press 
AURORA 

A 17-year-old boy in police custody is a suspect in a Labor Day shooting rampage that killed five other teen-agers and one woman, authorities said Tuesday. 
Police and witnesses said the suspect, Alexander Pagosian, and a friend, Michael Martinez, 18, were carrying shotguns and had pulled bandanas over their faces when they entered two 
houses  in  the  suburbs  of  
Aurora,  east  of Denver  on  
Monday.  

They shot and killed Greg Media, 18, his girlfriend, 
Marissa Aravalos, 16, and his mother, Penny Media, 37, at the first house, and Eddie Morales and Zachary Over at the second house, police said. 
A few hours later, Martinez was found dead in a field about 10 miles away, where he had been shot repeatedly with a handgun. police said. 
Early Tuesday, police received a call from Pagosian, which led them to him. Both suspects am from Aurora and the police said they had criminal records. Martinez was expelled from high school last year. 
The killings constituted the largest multiple-slaying in Colorado in recent decades. 


Nature 
continued from page 3 
upon." Human manipulation of the environment has some­times caused us to view nature as threatening rather than nurturing. "Is it Mother or is it foe?" asked Clark. 
Clark hopes the issues raised in class will offer alter­native perspectives of the relationships between persons and land. 
Greta Gaard, forerunner to the Ecofeminist movement wrote: "the basic premise which authorizes oppression based on gender is the same ideology which sanctions the oppression of nature." 
Modern society has also altered gender roles and shift­ed the divisions of labor caus­ing experiences to be less site-specific. Connections to the land presently "depend on how much you move, and how much you identify your own reality with particular sur­roundings" said Clark. 
Clark is also concerned with the "overwhelming mobility" of contemporary society. "It makes it harder to see our dependence on our biological nest, and makes it easier to do all sorts of things to injure it." If the earth can no longer nurture its inhabitants then we all suffer. "Mother Earth is land, but it is also you and me Clark said. 
Please Recycle The 
I I 

Observer 

I 
MATUBA lfl""' Japanese Restaurant "" 
Authentic. Healthy Delicious, The Artistry of Japanese Cuisine You're very special to Matuba. We would like to invite you to try our finest authentic Japanese cuisine, served in our din· ing room and sushi bar·taste our shrimp tern· para, teriyaki steak, teriyaki salmon, teriyaki chicken, sushi, sashimi and vegetarian sushi or manv other traditional Japanese dishes. 
l..u1d1 Spec:ial-$6.96 l:hu~-$14$ 
1 -Beef Negimaki 1 -Teriyaki Chicken 2 -Egg Rolls 1 -Tuna Sushi 2 -Fried Rice 1 -White Fish Sushi 4 pc . California Rolls 1 -Salmon Sushi 4 pc-Cucumber Rolls 4 pc-Calffomia Rolls 1 -Miso Soup 8 pc -Tuna Rolls 1 -Salad 1 -Steam Rice plus Japanese 1 -Miso Soup Green Tea 1 -Salad May change weekly plus Japanese
Green Tea Lunch Dinner Sushi( t 3 pieces) $6.95 $8.95 Sushi (t4 pieces $7.95 $11.95 Sushi veg. combo (12 pc) $8.95 $8.95 Sushi no raw fish (13 pc) $12.95 $12.95 Sushi(16pieces) $12.95 $12.95 Sushi Deuxe (21 pieces) $t6.95 $16.95 Sushi & Sashimicombo $t8.95 $t8.95 plus MISO Soup Lunch•1 t -2 Mon·Sat Dinner• 5·9 Mon·Thurs,5·t0 Fri·Sat 251-0674 Fish-Beef-Chicken-Vegetable 2930 E. McKinley Ave. South Bend IN 
• BRAZIL 



Tanker loses control, collides with buses 
Associated Press 
SAO PAULO 
A tanker truck flipped and exploded Tuesday on a Brazilian highway, igniting two buses returning from a reli­gious festival, firefighters said. At least 53 people were killed and dozens more injured. 
The crash took place just 

before 3 a.m. on the Anhanguera Highway near Araras, 110 miles northwest of Sao Paulo. 
"The tanker truck lost control and flipped," Araras fire offi­cial Wilson Lima said. He said a liquor truck rammed it from behind, and fuel the tanker was carrying spilled onto the highway. 
vut SOJne \)\te inYour n_..~~ ~th the T\.--~2 PlUs AfodU\e· 
Only the Tl-92 offers powerful functionality with features 

such as dropdown menus, split screen mode, 
symbolic manipulation with pretty print, 3D graphing, and text editor. 
• J(x ln(x))dx x2 ·ln(x) 2  2x 4  
FUNC  
1/lO  

Adding the Tl-92 Plus Module takes all that capability to a 
© 1998 Texas Instruments Incorporate~ 
whole new level. Plug it in to your Tl-92 and get 
o 
Over SOOK more memory. 

o 
Electronic upgradability. 

o 
Advanced Mathematics Software including differential equations solving, 


•deSolve(y''  =y,x,y)  
Y; @!·~ -x + e2 ..,x  

J tUTD  ):1)  

IHI6199~ 

The buses were in the pool of liquid when it burst into flames, Lima said. The tanker was carrying thousands of gal­lons of fuel. 
"It was horrible. People were screaming, their bodies on fire, and trying desperately to escape through the windows," Priscila Cordeiro, one of the survivors told TV Globo net­work. "None of us could do anything to help. We would have died if we tried." 
Joao Mesquita managed to save himself and his 2-year-old son, but his wife died in the flames. 
"It all happened very quick­ly," he said. "The fire destroyed everything within minutes." 

(x+2) (Xow, 

3D graph rotations, more linear algebra, an interactive numeric solver, constants, and unit conversions. 

You can buy the Tl-92 at your college bookstore or local 
retailer. The Tl-92 Plus Module can be purchased from our on-line accessory store, or by calling 
1-800-TI-CARES. 
-If} TEXAS 
INSTRUMENTS 

w -­
.. 
~--~~ 

---~--~~-~-------~-----~-----------~~~ 


I 
I I 
page 5 
• NOVA SCOTIA 



ASSOCIATED PRESS 
11/\LIF/\X 
Investigators have detected signs of heat damage on fragments of Swissair Flight 111's cock­pit, evidence that could help determine why smoke billowed around the pilots 
before  the  jetliner  
crashed.  
Vic  Gerden,  the chief  

crash investigator, said Tuesday that signs of heat stress have been found so far only on wreckage from thfJ eoekpit, not from the passenger cabin. 
"There are some signs of heating on some o-f the small pieces (Jf the wreck­age retrieved," Gorden told a nfJWS eonf'ercnee. "The limited amount of wreekage retrieved to date indieates this area of heat stress is in th!~ eockpit." 
lie refused to speeulatc on the extent of the dam­age or the cxaet cause of 
it. 

Gerden also expressed hopes of gaining valuable data from the plane's recovered l'light-data recorder, even though it stopped working during the final six minutes before the plane crashed into the /\tlantie off Nova Scotia on Sept. 2, killing all ~29 people on board. 
Flight 111 crashed more than an hour after taking off from New York, bound for Geneva. 
"The most crucial area is not the last six minutes, as some may think. but prior to those six minutes," Gerden said. 
The recorder, retrieved by divers 1.?0 feet under­water, might show how systems aboard the plane failed between the pilots' initial distress call 16 min­utes before the crash and when the machine shut off. he said. 
Investigators hope to get further information from the plane's cockpit-voice recorder, which is still on the sea bottom. A signal from that recorder has been detected, but bad weather Tuesday forced a one-day halt in diving operations. 
The divers were expect­ed to return to work Wednesday, supported by a new arrival from the United States --the Navy salvage and rescue ship USS Grapple. 
The Grapple helped with the undersea recovery of wreckage of TWA Flight 800 off Long Island in 1996. It has a team of more than 30 divers on board, as well as equip­ment for lifting large wreckage from the seabed. 
Divers are trying to eon­firm if three large pieces of wreckage found near the flight data recorder are sections of the plane's fuselage. 
Also on hand is a 16­member U.S. Navy team from Panama City. Fla .. which has brought advanced sonar and imag­ing equipment to provide greater detail of tho ocean floor. 
Gnrdcn, a Sflnior investi­gator with Canada's Transportation Safety Board, also released a more complete version of the last eonversation between the Swissair pilots and an air traffic control tower in Moneton, New Brunswick. 
Expanding on nxenrpts released earlier, the tran­script showfld that the pilots reportod putting their oxygen masks on and later telling the controllers they would have to fly the plane manually instead of by autopilot. 
Gerden reiterated that 

Starr report nears completion 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
WASHINGTON 
The independent counsel's report on President Clinton should reach Congress "this week or next," Senate Republican leader Tront Lott said Tuesday as antieipa· tion rose on Capitol Hill. Kenneth Starr told President Clinton's lawyer he opposed letting him son tho report early. 
--..___; 
"You are mistaken Clinton in your views as to ... your right to rnview a report befom it is transmitted to Congress," Starr wrote presidential attorney David K!~ndall . 
The prosecutor, responding to Kendall's letter asking for access to the report a week early, wrote, "I suggest you addt·oss your concflrns to the House of Representatives" after any report is delivered under seal there. 

Democrats, meanwhile, kept blister· ing Clinton with criticism as harsh as the Republieans'. 
"We're fed up," said Sen. Ernest "Fritz" Hollings of South Car·olina. "The behavior, the dishonesty of the president is unacceptable and we'll see with the report what course the Congross will take." 
Lott said there might have been "mort~ sympathy" for Kendall's argu­ment if the White House had not shown a pattern of belated disclosure on other congressional investigations. 
"Why is it !'air that no one elso in the world can get it, but they can'!" Lott said. "I really don't think presidents should be entitled to this." 
Loti eommnnt1ld on tlw likely arrival of Starr's investigative report after dis­cussing the matter with House Speaker Nnwt Gingrich, who is to go ov!lf the logistics of possible hearings with Demoeratic leaders on Wednesday. 
Sen. Barbara Boxer, the California Democrat whose daughter married Hillary Rodham Clinton's younger brother at the White House in 1994, called the president's bnhavior "wrong," "indoffJnsible" and "immoral" in her most oxtensiw eom­ments on the Lewinsky matter since Clinton's Aug. 17 admission of an inap­propriatn relationship with the l'ormnr intern. 
"He should have taken rnsponsibility Mrlier," she snid on the Sonate floor. llownver, she went on to praise Clinton's agenda and accomplish­ments. 
After meeting with other Domoeral'i, Senate Minority Lcadtlr Tom Daschle of South Dakota urged Clinton to elab· orate on his rneont apology, saying, "I think that it's important that he contin­ue to lind appropriate forums in which to add to thn enmrnont that lw's already made." 

Wednesday, September 9, 1998

page6 The Observer • NEWS 
-~-~--~-~-----------------­


Woo 
continued from page 1 
tial. Woo explained that she tries to be a model of this through courage in each small decision. 
"Courage does not come in 
Molly 
continued from page 1 
"[This! particular establishment was well-known in the South Bend/Notre Dame community where [doormen) would inade­quately check ID," said Sebertson. 
"We hired a security firm [that] assured (mel everything was okay," said Bauer, who says she had no knowledge of Bridget's illegal nature. 
"When it comes to excessive drinking, I don't think the closing of one bar has a great impact on that," said Dennis Moore, director of public relations and informa­tion. "My fear is that there always seem to be those places [under­age bars) around." 
Sebertson is currently "attempt­ing to work out a resolution" with the Bauer's lawyer, Steve Brenneman. who is anxious to point out that the Bauers "volun­tarily submitted" their liquor license. 
"[The] permit has been returned to the possession of the state of Indiana, pending the res­olution of the current violations," said Sebertson. 
According to Bauer, the liquor 
license is almost insignificant, 
because she does not plan to ever 
need it again. 
"[We] decided we no longer 
wanted to be in that business," 
said Bauer. "It was just too diffi­
cult, too risky with all the ideas of 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATI STUDY PROGRAM IN 
-~--_::::::::.-~ r-


ANGERS, .. FRAriCE 
1999-00 ACADEMIC YEAR 
"TOP TEN REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD NOT GO TO ANGERS" WITH PROFESSOR PAUL McDOWELL 
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1998 
7:00 P.M. IN 117 DEBARTOLO 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM IN 
-.........__ 
TOLEDO, SPAIN 
INFORMATION MEETING WITH PROFESSOR OLIVIA R. CONSTABLE 
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1998 
4:30 P.M. IN 213 DEBARTOLO 
RETURNING STUDENTS WILL BE ON HAND TO ANSWER QUESTIONS 

one recognizes that they can dent, and that is why it is so never do it by themselves is the important to build towards com­same minute they start building munity success," Woo added. towards the potential of the Woo felt that although the community," she said. "It is like Notre Dame community con­a conductor and an orchestra. tributes to team success 
The conductor can wave his extremely well there is room for arms about and make several improvement in some areas. signals, but without the orches­Boundaries between different tra, there is nothing, no music." disciplines and colleges was one 
"We are all very interdepen-such area. She expressed that 
Share a "taste" of Irish hospitality with prospective students 
Wanted: Purpose: 
Details: 

For m?re information or to volunteer for this program, e-mail Stacey at smlth.330@ nd.edu. Please include your name, address, phone and graduation year along with your preferred day(s) and time. 
Thank you! 
Office of Undergraduate Admissions 

Applications 
Further Information 

Tom Kilroy, Student Co-chair, 271-190 I 
Sarah Kolasa, Student Co-chair, 4-2892 
Rachel Tomas Morgan, Seminar Director, 1-5293 
Enthusiastic, dedicated ND students who are interested in having lunch twice a month with prospective students. 
Many of our visitors spend only a short time on campus. We created this program to give high school juniors and seniors an opportunity to learn more about ND student life in a casual 
setting. 

The program runs Monday -Friday. Volunteers are needed at 11 :45am and 12:45pm. Discounted lunch passes will be sold to visiting students for $4. 
Tuesday September 8, 1998 
7:30-8:00 PM 
Center for Social Concerns 
Available at the Center for Social Concerns Due date: Thursday, September 10, 1998 $40 deposit with application (non-refundable if accepted) 
their removal would promote a more fully collaborative learn­ing environment. 
As a person who makes many speeches, Woo said she feels it is her duty to address topics that provide a service to her audience. 
Woo is one of the two women in the U.S. to lead a private, accredited college of business. 

' 
1_----.-.------------------~---t-., -:-----------.-,------~---------------.-----------------...... ----.-.------.-.--.-. -~ -.--.---.-..-.1. -~--~-----------~·····~ :·;-.~;·~~~'!_ 

Wednesday, September 9, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
Do not stand in a place of danger
•Commitments 

trusting in miracles.
•Journal Entry 


-Arab Proverb
•Thoughts &Ideas 
Wednesday

• 
Agendas 


•Conversations 
September 1998 


&Ga
rocter 

an'/ 
~a fortune
cfO o•
\th 
• 
·m
~ud\tor'u 
nd 

NCAA donates mural to University 
By SHANNON GRADY 
News Writer 
Visitors to the Joyce Centnr this past wnnkend found a nnw addition to the University's ~~xtensivo collection of sports nwlllllrabilia. 
The newest addition, an 8­l'oot high, ](,() degree photo­graph or the opening kickoff or the llJ<J4 Notre Dame-Stanford game, was reennlly donated by the NCAA 
Discussions among NCAA ol'l'ieials, Notre Damn Sports Information diroetor John lleislor and Notre l>arno Alumni Assoeiatior1 exoeutive director Charles Lennon made it possible l'or this unique gift to f'ind its way to Notrn Dame. 
Tlw original 35rnm negative, 

~.t'~ 
c~., flo:o,_,. 
~/Ji

k'-~~ 011"41 Saturday, September 19 'II Notre Dame Golf Course Tee Times Begining at 1 0:00 
taknn by noted sports photogra­pher Hi<:h Clarkson. was just three inehes high. It was 1mlarged and separated into 14 photographic transparencies, each 8-l'eet high and 4-feet wide. 
The transpareneies were laminated onto dear, l'lexiblo material to form panels called "Duratrans." The Duratrans form a circular photo mural 20 feet in diameter when assem­bled. not including an outer structure that backlights them. 
Lennon trusted the creation of tlw outer structure to Bruce Auerbach, associate ehair and associate professional specialist in Notre Dame's Department of Film, Television, and Theatre. Auerbach designed and con­structed the portable frame­
work in which to display the mural. 
Tho result is a freestanding miniature stadium, faced in simulated brick and complete with crowd noise delivered through an integrated audio system. 
Tho mural, which was origi­nally on display at the NCAA Visitors Center in Overland Park, Kan., is not the first of its kind to be displayed at Notre Dame. A similar construction was created and displayed a few years ago. 
"The first set of panels the NCAA donated were photos of the 1988 Fiesta Bowl against West Virginia. We built the first framework here in Washington Hall in the fall of 1992," said Auerbach. "What we are actual­ly doing now is refurbishing the original framework and repair­ing damage that has been done to it." 
"What is so amazing about this is that you can look directly into the 
players' faces," Auerbach said. "They [the images) are about 4 feet tall, so it's like you're looking at the actual players. People came from everywhere to see the first mural because they wanted to try to find themselves in the stands. And a lot of people suc­ceeded." 
The mural will be displayed in the Alumni Hospitality Center in the Joyce Center fieldhouse during all home football week­ends. 
The Observer/Mark Higgins 

Service organization solicits BOG's help 
By ERIN GIBBONS 
News Writer 
Three guest speakers from Teamwork for Tomorrow spoke at the Board of Governance meeting about their organization and to solicite help from the Saint Mary's community. 
Teamwork for Tomorrow is a community outreach program committed to brightening the futures of children through lit­eracy, athletics, and mentor­ing, said J.P. Cooney, founding director. 
Each Tuesday and Thursday 
from 4:30-6:30 p.m., 30 volun­teers from Saint Mary's and Notre Dame will help students from Monroe Public !lousing imporove their literacy and basketball skills. 
In addition, an emphasis will be placed on health and fitness through healthy snack time consisting of twenty mintucs that will be devoted to solely to the importance of healthy liv­ing. 
Sometimes the fruit and juice that these kids get through this program is the only healthy thing they will eat all day, Cooney said. · 

page 8 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, September 9, 1998 
Students present race workshop 
By MEGHAN DONAHUE 
News Writer 
Students come to college to find tlwmselves and to make a future. llowever. Tysus Jackson and Marshawna Moore, both students at Saint Mary's College, presented a work­shop focusing on the chal­lenges of achieving this goal as an African­American at a predomi­nantly white institution. 
Moore and .Jackson also presented the workshop, 
entitled  "Who's  in  the  
Mirror?  Finding  An  
Identity  For  African- 

Americans in a Predominantly White Institution," in May at the 11th annual National Conference On Haec and Ethnicity in American llighnr Education in Denver. 
Not only did Moore and Jackson have to find spon­sors to fund their atten­dance at tlw convention, they also applied for schol­arships and submitted the proposals to add their workshop to the conven­tion schedule. 
The inside world is closed in and the outside world is closed out," Jackson said. "Our diversi­ty is limited and so are the resources that are needed 
for ourselvns and for Saint Mary's to understand the dif­ference in our ethnieity." 
Tlw participants at the con­vention knew their eommuni­ties and were alert to the needs of the people within that community. 
They were looking for answers. Moore said. 
"Diversity is bnhind the rest of the world at Saint Mary's," .Jackson said. "We need to learn from the experience of others and from each other." 
The workshop maintained that African-Americans con­tribute to Saint Mary's in a way that can not be replacP.d, but rather eomplimented by tlw cooperation of all cultures. By knowing the identity of the world, a personal identity will nourish. 
"Each stage in life holds an identity change," said Jackson. "If you find a stagnant point, change needs to happen. Grow!" 
Partieipants at the Saint 

Tysus Jackson (left), and Marshawna Moore presented their ideas on being students at a predommantly wh1te 1nst1tut1on. 
Mary's identity lecture spoke of role models, education, and self-knowledge as resources that help encourage personal identity growth. 
"Interaction is mandatory to grow and learn," said Moore. "No comfort zone can be all inclusive if socialization does not thrive between the races on campus." 
Other points made during the workshop included the chal­lenge of finding an identity and overcoming the barriers of a predominantly white institu­tion. Jackson and Moore explained that achieving these goals will require breaking tra­dition while learning to be flexible and patient. 
"If you come to me, a woman of color, and ask what I need -don't -unless you want to help," said Jackson. 
Stagnation in diversity comes from assumptions creatP.d by peers that are not willing to accept that improvements must be made. Embracing the influence that African­
--· ·. ·IN CONCERT 
BLESSID UNION OF SOULS 


SATURDAY· SEPTEMBER 12 • 8 PM O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM· SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
TICKffi ON SALE ATTHE SAINT MARYS COLLEGE BOX OFFICE IN OLAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM, OPEN 9 AM-5 PM, MONDAY-FRIDAY. CREDIT CARD ORDERS BY PHONE: 
2191284-4626 

ADULTTJCKffi ALSO AVAILABLE AT All ~~TICKET CENTERS INCLUDING ORBIT AND l..S. AYRES. TO CHARGE TICKffi BY PHONE, CALL 
2191272-7979 
To purchase online: http://www.ticketmaster.com 

Americans possess is the only way that awareness will progress. 
One point made during the workshop was that ignorance must be undcine in order to shape a righteous identity. 
"It is important to find an identity," Moore said. "It's hard, especially in predomi­nately white institutions. These colleges an~ not for everyone come only if you know yourself." 

,.ILLINOIS 
Moseley-Braun takes back racist comment 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 

Sen. Carol Moseley­Braun's re-election bid took {Ln emotional turn when she angrily lost her composure during a Labor Day event and used a racial epithet to characterize herself as a tar­get of racism. 
Responding to criticism of her personal and political conduct in a nationally syndi­cated column written by George Will, Moseley-Braun said, "I think because he could not say 'nigger.' the said the word 'corrupt."' (The word "corrupt" never actually appeared in the col­umn.) 
She also said, "George Will can just take his hood and go back to wherever he came from." 
The senator apologized for the outburst several hours later. 
"In my anger, I lost my temper and used language that was not appropriate." she said in a statement. "I am sorry. For more than five years, I've endured baseless charges and reckless insinua­tions that were intended to divert attention from my solid record of aceomplish­
mont  as  a  United  States  
Senator."  
It  was  an  episode  that  

seemed to underscore how sensitive Moseley-Braun is to ethical questions that have been raised for years about her financial practices before and during her 1992 cam­paign and about a 1996 meeting she had with Nigeria's brutal dietator, Sani Abaeha, who died this year. 
And it eomes during a tough re-election battle for Moseley-Braun, the first African-American woman in the Senate, as she tries to hold on to what Democratic leaders consider one of the party's most vulnerable Senate seats. 
Hecent polls have suggest­ed that Moseley-Braun, who was swept into office in 1992, is in an insecure position for an incumbent, especially in a year when many incumbents arc expected to do well. 
Last month, a poll conduct­ed by The Chicago Tribuno found Moseley-Braun trailing her opponent, State Sen. Peter Fitzgerald, 39 percent to 46 percent, with a margin of error of four percentage points. It also showed that women, who supported her overwhelmingly in 1992, were sharply divided about her. 
On Monday, a poll pub­lished in The St. Louis Post­Dispatch showed Fitzgerald leading by 46 percent to 35 percent with a margin of error of four points. 
There are other reasons why Moseley-Braun has a tough fight ahead of her. One is expected low turnout, made potentially lower by President Clinton's problems. Another is money. 
Fitzgerald, a conservative from a wealthy banking fami­ly in the northern suburbs of Chicago with an estimated net worth of $40 million, spent $6 million on the R1\publiean primary and recently embarked on a tele­vision advertising campaign expected to cost as much as $4 million. 

ATTENTION 
1998 Mandatory Club Meetings 
September 9  Wednesday  9:00p.m.  Montgomery  
Theater  
September 17  Thursday  6:00p.m.  Montgomery  
Theater  
eptember 23  Wednesday  9:00p.m.  Montgomery  
Theater  
September 28  Monday  9:00p.m.  Montgomery  
Theater  

Please refer questions to Ryan in the Student Activities Office by calling 631-7309 or e-mail: willerton.l @nd.edu. 
-· 

Your club officers (at least the President & Treasurer) must attend one of the three meetings. 
Clubs not attending any ofthe meetings may hinder their development in the areas ofcluh management and.fiscal responsibility. Please arrive on time, Thanks. 

VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, September 9, 1998 -----------------os~tRvER page 9 
THE OBSERVER 
NmiU· DAM I. OI·I'IU.: P.O. Box Q, Norn· Dame, IN 46556 (2I9) 631-7471 SAIN 1 MAllY\ 01+10: j09 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
ElliTOH-IN-CIHF.F Hcarhcr Cocks MANA(OINt; El>IHlR 8USINf.'S MANAGER Bn1111 I{C"imh.dn Kyle Carlin 
ASSISTANT MANAt:ING EDI I'OH I ic.lthcr MacKcmic.· 

NEws Em ron.. ...Mid,dle Krup.• AI>VERTISING MANAGER ............... Kerry McPanlin VIEWI'OINT EDITOR.. .. .......... Eduardo Llull All DESIGN MANAGER ........................ Brett Hudat SI'ORTS EUITOR. .. Kathleen !.opel SYSTEMS MANAGER.... ...... Michael Brouillet Sct.NI Et>ITOHS. .. ......Sarah Dylag CoNTROU.ER.. .......................Dave Rogcro 
Kri.;u Klirsch WEn AllMINISTRATOR ..................Jennifer Breslow SAINT MARY'S EunoR ...... M. Shannon Ryan GRAPiliCS ElliTOR ............................... I'ete Cildla 
l'wrro EUITOR . . ..... Kevin l>alum 
• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 

llw ( lh,c.·rvcr j_, the.• llllk·p~·rulcnr nc.'W')l.lpc.•r puhli.,hcc.l hy d1c.' ~tudcnt.' of d1c University nf Notre Do1me du Lac and \,11111 M.try\. (:ullq.:c.·. Ia line\ ntJI IU.'U'''·''il)' n..·ncct the: Jll'lidc!l nf the admini.~tratioll of either in!<otitution. The new~ is tt')"tru:d ,,, ,u:cur.udy .uul nhll't'tivdy .l!<o po~'ihlc. Un~ignnl cditnri:ll:<. rcprt·:~ocnr the: opinion of the mJjoriry uf the hltwr-111·( :h1d, M.m.1~111~ h.lnor1 A:~o\1~1.1111 M.m;Jgin~ Editor .md dcp.mmclll cditnr~. Commcmarics,lctrcrs .mtl ~..olumn' pr~·"-'lll 1h~· vil·w, uf the .1utlwr~ ..1m! nnt nccc!<smily dm"c nfTh~· ( lbscrvcr. Vicwpoim space is available to .all mrm1'14.'t' nf1hc Nnltl' Il,mw/~.11111 ~1.ar~··" l'nmmunity .md In :til reader.\. The free cXJlrcssion ofvarying opinions tluuu\.!.h k•ucr~ '' cnwur,lgctt 
Contacting The Observer hluor-lnwChic..·f 6.~ I -4542 Hu.,ines:\. ( )ffice 6.ll-531.l M.m.tgin~ Editor/A,,i,r:lfH ME (d I~4S41 Adv~rrising 631-6900/8840 Ncw,/Piwro (,j I~S.~2.1 Sysrem" 631-8839 :O.purr• Ci.li-4S4.l Fax 631-6927 S«nr//S.Iintl'vl.itv\ 6,\J-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu 11,1\' Ednnr/Virwjmint G.li-S.lll.l Ad E-Mail obs~rver<i:Vd;trwin.cc.nd.cdaa ( llliLc Managcr/(lcm:r.allnrorm.nion (,j I~7471 News E-Mail observc:r.obsn~Wll.l @nd.cdu 
• AWAKENINGS 
Electoral volatility could spark surprise in Noventber 
Senators and Congrcsspersons n•.turned to Washington this week al'tPr a month-long vacation. One would think th1~y would be refreshed and rninvigorated for the last-Ing of llw l1~gislative Sl~ssion. 
J.P. Cooney 

Summ1~r vacations in election years are 1wver relaxing for politicians, how­evnr. lnst1~ad they arc spnnt sharpen­ing campaign strategies and assaulting ~~ampaign contributors. August sepa­ratns tlw contendnr from the dreamer. the hopPI'ul from the hopeless. and the politico from the impolitic. 
Hepublicans spent August basking in the glow of thn Prnsidnnt's misfor­tunes: thny havn the opportunity to clench firm control of both legislative cham hers and seize tlw legislative agenda from the embattled Presidnnt. If tlwy take full advantage thny can oven lay a firm groundwork for a return to the pn~sidnncy in 2000. The lkmocrats on the other hand. seem almost eripplnd. They spent their sum­mnr break searching in vain for an ~~xplanation for tho inexplicable. Just a few WIH~ks ago thny were talking about 1·ntaking the House: now they're trying to prnv1mt an nlndoralloss that would take at least two elections to recover. 
My. how things chango in such a short period of tinw. The fallout from thn Clinton scandal. though not as bad as it rould be. has shaken the political landsrapn and changed the rules of the gamn for Novnmbnr. But Hnpublicans should not b1~ so quick to elaim victory, and Democrats not so quick to accept defeat. The 1998 eledorate is poten­tially the most volatile in several elec­tions. The political order is unstable ­incumbents, Democrats and Hepublieans alike, could pay a heavy price in November if they fail to realize this. 
The potential volatility of the electorate is a result of insta­bility in the political and economic issue context. For starters, the crisis in Hussia has caused marked vacilla­tion of prices and investment behavior in the stock market. This sudden vacillation has caused the nndurance of our economic Moreover, Saddam Hussein remains pitted against the international com­munity on the issue of arms inspec­tions. The situations in Kosovo and Northern Ireland, just to name a few, are also destabilizing -how will the 

U.S. involve itself in these regions as time wears on. Americans are skepti­

expansion to be called into question. Our economy is also vulnerable to the on-going Asian crisis and their hesi­tance to commit to long-term economic reform. 
The defiant labor market, which has rediscovered its penchant for broad­based industrial action, is another source of potential electoral volatility. According to the New York Times, unions arc on pace to record well-over 400 hundred strikes this year. Recent action by workers at Northwest Airlines, US West, Bell Atlantic and General Motors, has reasserted the wedge between labor and management and may revitalize some form of class­style struggle. 
Then there is last month's terrorist bombings in Kenya and Tanzania and the subsequent American retaliation. 

cal about our post-Cold War interna­tional role, and fearful of our status as a primary terrorist target. 
Finally, it goes without mention that the exploits of the President have eroded public confidence in politicians and called their integrity into question. But it's not just the President that is eroding the public trust, other factors perpetuate the problem. For instance: The Attorney-General's inevitable launching of an investigation of the Vice President, the harsh rhetoric of the Hepublican right on culturaVnational issues such as homo­sexuality, the perception of Kenneth Starr as a partisan political hit-man and the continual attempt of the Hepublican leadership to thwart debate on campaign finance reform. 
Polling indicates that Hepublicans and Democrats are having trouble get­ting traditional themes, such as eduea­tion, social security, health insurance, and tax-reform, to resonate with vot­ers. The reason is that voters, in some ways consciously and in many ways unconsciously, are fearful about the future of our country and the vibrancy of our democracy. The state of the stock market and labor market, and the rise in international terrorism scare Americans; and the perceived wretchedness of politicians disengage them from the system. 
These destabilizing issues prevent any one issue from forming the frame­work for this fall's election. The 1998 election will not be the year of the "soccer mom," health care reform or smaller government. Instead. the 1998 election will be framed around the ability of politicians to demonstrate a willingness to address these issues in a straightforward and trustworthy man­ner. Americans desperately seek lead­ers they can have faith in -1998 may be the year that they act upon that desire. 
The implications of this are signifi­cant. Unlike most elections, this year's election strategy was not drawn up in August. As the destabilizing issues we confront continue to unfold, so will the framework around which the 1998 elections will be fought. In other words, this fall has the potential to be an extraordinarily interesting election season. The electorate may vacillate from day to day, as will the strategies of each party. Hold on tight-it's still anybody's ball game. 
J.P. Cooney is a senior government and economics major. /lis column appears every other Wednesday. 1/e can be reached via e-mail at Cooney. 6@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer . 
• 0.UOTE OF THE DAY 
'Actually, it only takes 
one drink to get me 
loaded. Trouble is l can't 
remember if it's the thir­
teenth or fourteenth.' 
-George Burns 


---~ 
0


page 10 ------------------------------~OBSERVER ---------------Wednesday, September 9, 1998 



I
f you're in the mood for some nice harmonies, go listen to your favorite Carpenters album. If you prefer something a little more intense, you might want to check out Korn's latest LP, Follow the Leader. The album, Korn's third release, is simply a must-buy for any alienated thrasher teenagers out there who happen to like knit hats and skateboarding. As for the rest of us, the album will only spur interest from those who dig the current metal fusion scene that includes such bands as Tool and Limp Bizkit. 
Korn is a hardcore metal band. and the album does indeed inspire wailing and gnashing of the teeth (in a cathartic sort of way, of course). But the album, as its title might suggest, is another deliberate attempt by Korn to forge a new sound, and they do this by incorporating such varied influences as funk, hip-hop, industrial: and post-grunge music. Their most obvious in11uence in this respect is Faith No More, but others include Rage Against the Machine, the Red Hot Chili Peppers, and .Jane's Addiction. 
The band originated in Bakersfield, California, and is comprised of bassist Reggie "Fieldy Snuts" Arvizu, guitarists .James "Munky" Shaffer and Brian "Head" Welch, and drummer David Silveria; but the main force behind Korn is the singer, one rather interesting Duran Duran fan known as .Jonathon "HIV" Davis. -Born in Scotland. raised in California, Davis' nickname proceeds from a lifetime of (wrongly) being labeled as a homosexual. 
Growing up. Davis taught himself drums and several other instruments (including the bagpipe that shows up briefly on Follow the Leader) in his father's music store. But being pushed from the music industry by a father who had seen its bad side, Davis temporarily abandoned his musical dreams and chose the next best career path: he entered mortuary college and then went to work in the Kern County coro­ner's office. His experiences there are an obvious influence on Korn's morbid music, and they are directly responsible for the songs "Dead Bodies Everywhere" and "Pretty" on follow the Leader. 
Davis' singing style, influenced by Faith No More's Mike Patton, helps define the band's sound. When he is not screaming or rapping, he reverts, sometimes instanta­neously, to a voice that is alternately melodramatic and whiny. The amazing result is that he does not sing one note on this entire album in a normal singing voice. The 
Sublim.e 
Stand By Your Van UNI/Gasoline Alley 
*** 1/2 (best out of five) 

Korn 
Follow The Leader 
Sony Records 
** 1/2 (best out of five) 
power chords churned out by Shaffer and Welch on their seven-stringed guitars are prevalent throughout most of the songs and sometimes make Korn sound like 311; when they are muted it is usually to make way for the bass. There are times during the course of the album when Arvizu's work is sure to remind anyone of Primus' great Lcs Claypool. 
Now, the necessary amounts of screams, whines, vulgarity, power chords, and rapid-fire bass are most definitely all in place on Follow the Leader. But Korn expands its metal sound on this album, as they have done in the past, by incorporat­ing elements of music styles formerly considered to be at odds with heavy metal, namely funk and hip-hop. For example, the macabre "Freak on a Leash" is inter­ceded near the end with a funky, even if somewhat sinister, smattering of jive gib­berish reminiscent of P-Funk; similar stunts are pulled on several other tracks. "Cameltosis," performed by Pharcyde's Trevant Hardson, could have been a Snoop Doggy Dogg rap, while the collaborative "Children of the Korn" actually does fea­ture the unmistakable presence of rap star Icc Cube, though this does not absolve the band from using their name in the title of their own song. 
Korn also sets themselves apart from someother heavy metal bands in another. somewhat more subtle way: production. Producers Steve Thompson and Toby Wright obviously spent a lot of time with Korn on this album after recording was complete, as evidenced by the meshing of songs and various tweaks and sound effects. On almost every song of this album Korn sampled voice parts and instru­ments, phased their guitars and added space-aged noise effects, giving the band an industrial edge that is akin to the music of Nine Inch Nails. 
The end result of Korn's innovation and disregard for musical boundaries is an album that is important within the current alternative metal scene, having already sold over 268,000 copies. But as far as the band's contribution to music in general with this album is concerned, well, let's give them credit for trying, but power chords and screaming will only get you so far. 
jim Kelly 


W
hen you listen to Stand By Your Van-Sublime Live, you encounter the truth behind Sublime and its revolutionary music. As a band, Sublime were just three guys and a dog playing for beer. The newest release catches Sublime in its element, complete with forgotten lyrics, impro­vised beats and most importantly the uncertainty of what was to come next. But maybe that was the beauty of a Sublime show. At any moment, they could string together a contagious body shaking groove or lay down a tight ska riff but even 
Photo courtesy of UNI/Gasoline Alley 
Stand By Your Van is a collection of 16 songs from the band's lesser known lirst and second releases, 40 Ounces To Freedom and Robbin· the /load. The album is highlighted by such songs as "Greatest Hits" and "S.T.P," in which the boys n~fleet as always their upbeat attitude and love of partying. Another highlight to tiH~ album is "Pool Shark." It is one of the most sincere and heartfelt songs that Bradley fWer sings. In it, he discusses his battles with substance abuse, which ultimately lead to his unfortunate and untimely death. 
morn importantly, they could turn a concert into an all out party with their mix of Along with those songs, the album also contains live renditions of "Badlish" and reggae, punk, ska, dub, and hip-hop. 
"Date Hape." Stand By Your Van passes on the vibe that you are fren to party and It is that warmth and vibe that is captured throughout Stand By Your Van. Many enjoy life, just as every Sublime show demonstrated. of the Stand By Your Van tracks were recorded live in various clubs and taverns in the three years proceeding their major breakthrough with the multi-platinum and very popular album, Sublime. A majority of the album's tracks were recorded at Kommotion, a small dub in San Francisco. but others also take place at the House of Blues and the Palace in Ilollywood and one track even comes from one of their 
Robert Calleros 

appearance on the original Warped Tour. 

TheJimi Hendrix Experience 
Photo courtesy of Columbia Records 

F
or thosn of' you who do not know who Lauryn Hill is, you need only be rnmindnd of a group named tho Fugnes. She was tho one craftily singing a nnw version of' "Killing Mt~ Softly." Othnrs might know her as thr, chorus girl from Nas' "If' I Hulnd the World." Even others might know her as the bratty t.nnnagnr in Sistnr Act 2. She has playnd many minor roles and shared the spotlight nunwrous times, but after lwr nnw album The Miseducation of Lauryn Ifill, she has sun~ly proven that she can shine alone as well. Lauryn Hill incorporates Jazz, hip hop, bluns, and H&B sounds to make a great album that is a must buy for any fans of' music with grnat bnats and a laid back melody. Co-produced by Che' Guervo the CD is uniqtw in its incorporation of quiek samples in some of the slower songs like "I Used to l.ovn llim" and "Lost Ones." 
Tlw production ean also be rnwarded f'or its incredibly smooth Bow. It is not crowded with tons of long drawn out introductions or random intnrruptions that are rharartnristie of' prPvious Fugt~e related albums. Some songs stand out like "Doo Wop." "Forgivn Tlwm Father," and "Every Ghetto, Every City." The thing that makPs this album so strong is that there is not a weak song that brings down the llow. It SPt'lllS latt>ly that many hip hop and rap artists (such as Wydef Jean) have IH•conH• obst~ssPd with putting as many songs on an album as technically possible, 
--------, 
Music Scene reviewer 
WSND 88.9 on inlltta from midnight until 

page 11 

which hurts the quality of the CD. Lauryn Hill just puts 14 solid songs on an album and lets it flow. I recommend this to anybody with an open mind for music and believe that it is an essential buy for any blues, hip hop, or rap collectors. 
Todd Callais 
BBC Sessions 
MCA Records 
**** 1/2 (best out of five) 

B
liP to an ohsrum British radio law callnd "Noedletime" which greatly limited tlw airtirrw for prerPcordnd music, there is a vast collection of recordings of music pnrfornwd solnly for broadcast in the UK. Collections of material have hnnn n~lnasml by artists such as The Beatles and Led Zoplin with great suc­cnss and it is no wondnr that Experinnce Hendrix L.L.C. (the family-run company that owns thn rights to all of Jimi Hendrix's music) has decided to follow with it is own n·h~asn. 11w Jimi 1/endrix f/xperience: IJIJC Sessions. 
For thP hard(~Jwd I lnndrix, most of this material is on a multitude of CDs or tapes in thnir collnetion. In fact, simply from the material recorded by Hendrix from '67 to '70 ovnr four hundred diiTnrent albums have been compiled. What this release oiT(~rs that thosn otlwrs do not is a rnlativdy eomplnte collection of the material rncorded f'or tlw BBC radio and tolnvision shows; there are, of course, recordings that havn lwnn lost, stolnn or destroyed. Also tlwrn are a few songs that have been shortnnnd and only a sngnwnt of an intnrvicw with llendrix. This perhaps bning the most frustrating part of' this rnlnasn as it leaves the listener wanting more matr,rial. 
This nHnpilation also off'nrs outstanding sound quality that most bootlegs arc la,.king. htr tlwsn who wouldn't consider themselves diehard fans. Hendrix's career f'or nast' of' distin,.tion can be broknn up into thrne diiTernnt phases: pre-Experience, 

Photo courtesy of MCA Records 
Experience and post-Experience (Experience referring to the band The .Jimi Hendrix Experience) . 
These recordings represent a large portion of the Experience section of his career. The songs that were recorded were songs that would not oftnn be played live elsewhere and by no means would get radio play today. The recordings have a very free form almost jovial quality about them but do not lack in evidence of Hendrix's incredible skill. There are eleven recording that arc songs not written by Hendrix, from "Hey Joe" to a song known to Elvis fans, "Hound Dog." These songs represent the foundation for the post-Experience sound of rhythm and blues, rock and jazz. This double CD set represents the third official release of Experinnen Hendrix, I..L.C (not including the rerelease of the three JHE albums) and shows the care that the family has put into preserving one of the most influential musicians of our time. 
fames Schuyler 

Who's Yo Daddy? 
Place: o•LaughUn Auditorium 

Place: Irish Connection 
Date: Saturday at 8 p.m. 

Date: Thursday at 10 p.m. 
Tickets are on sale at Saint 

Opening band is Hotel Prall 

Blessid Union Of Souls Mary's Box Office 


KRT Photo 
Mark McGwire looks on as home run No. 62 leaves the yard last night in St. Louis. 

Baseball 
continued from page 20 
ly enough, a sign for "Target" depart­ment stores. 
Both joined other members of the grounds crew in a mad dash to where they thought it would land, under a "Konica Copiers & Printers" sign. 
"I figure, if it's not gone, it's going to hit the wall. If it is gone, it's mine," Forneris said. 
lie beat them all. "He was always the better player," Tino Forneris said. 
In the left-field stands, fans suddenly certain they wouldn't get to the ball rushed out to the smoking areas and restrooms, lining the concourse. 
Forneris stuffed the ball into his shirt and ran onto the field with dozens of other employees as McGwire rounded the bases. He gave the prize to Cardinals equipment manager Buddy Bates. 
"[t makes everybody happy," Cardinals spokesman Brian Bartow said. "Our employees love the game just like the fans do. 
I am not surprised that an employee felt so strongly about it that he rushed to give it to Mark." 
There was some initial confusion when an unidentified man handed a ball to McGwire shortly after the home run. But the slugger said he looked at the ball and said he knew it wasn't the one. 
"It said 'Official League,' not 'National League,"' McGwire said at a postgame news conference. "So I gave it back." 
McGwire has said the ball belongs in Cooperstown -at the Baseball Hall of Wednesday, September 9, 1998 
Fame, home of 5,000 other significant baseballs. 
"It's refreshing," said Don Marr. the hall's president, carrying a caso contain­ing the bat Roger Maris used to hit No. 
61. "People short-change America. These baseball fans are showing their true colors." 
McGwire's last six home-run balls have been returned to him. 
Fans who saw No. 62 but didn't get the ball had to think about it for a while, but most arrived at the same verdiet. 
"I would definitely give it back," said Rich Keirn of St. Louis. 
"I think it's great Mark got the ball. I would have done the same thing," said Bridget Dawson, also of St. Louis. 
"We didn't come here to try to catch the ball. I wasn't going to get killed going for that baseball," said Rick Miller of Alton, Ill. 
"I just wanted to see him hit the horne run." 
The mass of cowhide-covered yarn and rubber that makes up a Rawlings official National League baseball, which retails for $9, could have been worth more than $1 million to anyone who caught it. 
T he r e was a b r i (d' fl u r r y o v e r tlH~ weekend when there wen~ reports that whoever caught the ball might be taxed heavily even if they gave it away. But the IRS said Tuesday that wouldn't be th(~ case. 
McGwire, who earns $9.5 million a year, had implored whoever retrieved the ball to return it. 
"I just totally disagree with all this money talk about a ball," he said over the weekend. "It is outrageous. Why would somebody hold the ball hostage when really, basically, they had nothing to do with it?" 
The "magical one," he says. 
MeGwire 
continued from page 20 
With the sellout crowd still standing and cheering, McGwire grabbed a microphone to address the fans. 
"To all my family, my son, the Cubs, Sammy Sosa. It's unbeliev­able," 
McGwire said. "Thank you, St. Louis." 
McGwire, who grounded out on a 3-0 pitch in the first inning, hit his solo shot on the first pitch at 8:18 p.m. COT. It triggered an 11-minute delay, baseball's biggest midgame celebration since Cal Ripken broke Lou Gehrig's consecutive games record in 1995. 
The home run, despite its short distance, surely will rank as one of the biggest in history, up there with the ones hit by Bobby Thomson, Bill Mazeroski, Hank Aaron, Carlton Fisk, Kirk Gibson and Joe Carter. 
The 34-year-old slugger also did it at home, just like he want­ed. The Cardinals begin a five­game road trip Wednesday, and McGwire wanted to share the moment with the fans and city he has embraced. 
McGwire's race began on March 31 when he hit a grand slam on opening day, but his chase to become 1998's home run champion is not finished. 
With the Cardinals out of con­tention, McGwire may take off a few days before the season ends Sept. 27. He is just four homers ahead of Sosa, who figures to play every day down the stretch with the Cubs still in the NL wild­card race. 

Like Maris, McGwire broke the mark in an expansion season. But consider this stat: This year, home runs are being hit at a rate of 2.05 per game; last year, the average was also 2.05. 
McGwire accomplished his feat in the Cardinals' 145th game, while Maris' Yankees played 163 in 1961. Before Maris set his record, commissioner Ford Frick declared any record would carry a "distinctive mark" if it did not beat Babe Ruth's mark of 60 in 154 games. But that decision was reversed seven years ago. 
McGwire picked on his share of young pitchers, hitting eight home runs off rookies, but other victims included Ore! Hershiser and relief aces Robb Nen and Rod Beck. He connected twice against World Series MVP Livan Hernandez, including a 545-foot monster drive that was the longest in Busch history. 
McGwire actually caused more problems for Arizona's stadium than its first-year pitching staff. He hit a batting-practice drive that resulted in $2,000 damage to the scoreboard at Bank One Ballpark. 
His slam off Ramon Martinez started a run in which he home­red in the first four games of the season, tying Willie Mays' record. In April, he became the first Cardinals player to hit thrPe homers in a game at Busch. 
McGwire hit his 400th career homer in May and hit his 37th home run in June, tying the major league record for most before the All-Star break. 
In July, he set the mark forth(' fastest to reach 40 homers in a season. In August, he came the first player to reaeh 50 home runs in three straight years. And then came September and the most memorable month of all. 
McGwire's hair never fell out, as it did to Maris when he was trying to overtake Babe Ruth's record of 60, even though the expectations and pressure began building way before the Cardinals' first workout in spring training. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame oHice, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. ar 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for nexr-day clas­
sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
SPEND ALL THAT SUMMER CASH ALREADY?? South Dining Hall Food Market has employment opportunities. 
We offer competitive wages, pay increases for returning students, flexible schedules and work incen­tives. 
Stop by South Dining Hall or call 1­6147 for more information. 
ILOST & FOUND I 
Found: 
A silver-colored necklace with 
eleven religious medals found out­
side the stadium. 
Call4-2453. 
WANTED 
Part-time nanny needed for one-and-a-half year old boy, flexible hours. good pay, phone 631 5181 
Have you been married for less than two years? Earn $30 to $120. For more information call Dr. Smith @ 1-9408. 
TRUMPET, SAX, ELEC.GUITAR AND BASS PLAYERS FOR ND SHENANIGANS BAND. ONLY @ 1 HR/WK! SPRING TOUR AND MANY OTHER FUN EXPERI­ENCES! CALL MEGAN AT 4-2573 Experienced babysitter w/ car need­ed. Various hours. 289-1529 
N D Prof seeks reliable baby sitter for his 2 and 4 year old children. Flexible Hours, call 282 2553 or 631 8015. 
ABSOLUTE SPRING BREAK... 
"TAKE 2" 
2 FREE TRIPS ON ONLY 15 
SALES and ... EARN $$$$. 
Jamaica, Cancun,Bahamas,Fiorida, 
Padre!Lowest prices! Free 
Meals,Parties & Drinks. 
''Limited Offer". 1800-426­
771 0/www .sunsplashtours.com 
FOR RENT 
I 
'-1.-2.-3.4-.5-B-D-RM-HO_M_E_S.-N-EA_R---J 
CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW 
GILLIS PROPERTIES.272-6551 
6 BDRM HOME. NEAR CAMPUS. 
FURN. $175. PER PERSON.272­
6551 
That Pretty Place, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds.5 Rooms with private baths,$80­$115,Middlebury,30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #1 07,1-800­418-9487. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
fine home within 10 miles of 
ND/SMC 219-291-7153 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR 
ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 243-0658. 
FLYNN ND/SMC B&B 
Private home, 10 mins from cam­pus. 3 lovely rooms,one bath.Perfect for families or couples traveling together.Available foot­ball,grad. parents' wkends. $75­95/nt. Call Alice (219)282-2241. 
BED AND BREAKFAST, FOOT­BALL WEEKENDS,NEAR CAM­PUS. 219-277-6832. 
BED AND BREAKFAST, FOOT­BALL WEEKENDS,NEAR CAM­PUS. 219-277-6832. 
I FOR SALE 
· '88 VW Jetta, black, 4-door, sunroof, cassette, 5-speed, 120K, $2,000. Call 287·5084 
AMERICARD PREPAID PHONE CARDS $10-97 min. $20 • 198 min. Call 258-4805. 
1987 Saab 900 5 speed, 1owner, Good Condition. $3000 OBO. Call288-1380 in evenings. 
1976 Kawasaki KZ400 motorcycle. Completely restored. $900 obo. 321-3020 pager, Joe. 
89 Ford Probe GL $3300 Steinway Piano $500 Yamaha Trombone $250 Guitar with Amp $150 
--Accordion $50 237-0695 

Stuffed Armchair. $15 Call 631-5435. 
TICKETS 
I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306 
TICKETMART Inc BUY-SELL-TRADE Notre Dame Football Tickets 258-1111 No student tickets please 
FOR SALE FOOTBALL TICKETS 271-9412 
WANTED ND FOOTBALL TICKETS 271-1526 
ND Ftbl. tix BUY-SELL 674-7645 

ND Footbaii-Buy-Seii.Seasonal and Individual Game Tickets. GA-only 674-7645 
ND Football Tickets Needed. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 
ND FOOTBALL TIX 
FOR SALE AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 

Needed: tix to Michigan State. Will trade tix or a room for one home game or pay cash. Call Tony at 4­1088. 
Needed:Two BC tickets.Willing to buy OR trade EITHER two Purdue or two Stanford tix. Call617-248-7046 
2 PURDUE GA's 4 SALE 908-537-4008 
Need LSU tix 289-2918 
Always buying and selling N D foot· ball tickets. 289-8048 
Need 5 Purdue GAs Call x3501 Eric 
MICH. ST. TIX NEEDED CALL 634-3192 
Need Michigan St. Tix 
x1943 
I need 1 Navy Tix 634-1841 
PERSONAL 

$6 HAIRCUTS 
VITO'S BARBERSHOP Closed All Day Sun and Wed. Open Daily 8-4. Sat 8-3. 233-4767 
CLOSED LABOR DAY, 9/8 & 9/9. 
Will reopen on Thursday 9/1 0. 
SPRING BREAK-PLAN NOW! Cancun,Jamaica,Mazatlan,& S.Padre.Early bird savings until Oct. 31st.America's best prices and packages. Campus sales reps want­ed.Earn free trips+ cash. 1.800.SURFS.UP www.studentexpress.com 
'"ATTENTION LESBIAN, GAY, BISEXUAL AND QUESTIONING STUDENTS"' Original student group will hold its first GENERAL meeting tomorrow 9/10. Call info line for details 236-9661 
hello melvin and pat. thanks for the red lights. i appreciate it.... Meijer fun. 
Yo quiero Taco Bell 
i told you i'd slander you ... 
you guys are morons!!! 
happy?:) 
Diane ... laugh now. 
think piles of chickens. 
funny, eh? 
Mark-have to give you a classified. just cause. 
Nick-HI!!\ here you are, in the 
paper. where's my message? 
Girls sorry about that alarm system 
Classifieds, need I say more? 

Wednesday, September 9, 1998 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 

We're looking for thinkers. Not just their diplomas. 
-

It's all about making an impact. 
Andersen Consulting Career Night-September 14, 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m. 101 DeBartolo Hall-Causal Attire General Information Session: 7:00 p.m.-7:30p.m. Small Group Discussions: 7:30 p.m.-9:00p.m. Submit a resume and personal data sheet to Career and Placement by September 15. 
You know you're more than a piece class clients to help them achieve Take this opportunity to talk to us about of paper. You're bursting with ideas and profound change. After all, it takes yourself, and most importantly, your ideas. insights that can change the world of powerful ideas to align strategy with 
Visit our Web site at www.ac.com
business. And at Andersen Consulting, people, processes and technology. we want them. We'll provide first-rate training and As a leading global management and guidance, and expose you to a variety of 
IfAndersen
technology consulting organization, we projects and industries. All of which builds bring our insights and ideas to world-a solid foundation for your future. 
Consulting 
'"1998 Andmrn Con>ulting. All right> rr>rrvrd. An rqual opportunity rmployrr. 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, September 9, 1998 


Agassi fails to advance past fourth round 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK 
When it came down to pure tennis, and not the mind games of the night before, Andre Agassi simply couldn't handle the speed or power of an oppo­nent who rallied from a big deficit in the final set. 
Karol Kucera slowly regained his 
confidence while winning five straight 
games as he closed out a 6-3, 6-3, 6-7 
(5-7), 1-6, 6-3 victory Tuesday that 
took two days to complete because of 
rain. 
The win sent No. 9 Kucera toward a 
quarterfinal match against top-seeded 
Pete Sampras, while No. 8 Agassi 
failed to advance beyond the fourth 
round in any Grand Slam tournament 
this year. 
A day after the players glared and 
postured at each other across the net, 
there was little emotion as an embat­
tled Kucera saved two break points 
that would have given Agassi a 3-0 
lead in the final set. 
"Last night it just got to the point 
where it was so competitive we could 
have put on boxing gloves, thrown 
darts, we could have done anything 
not to do with tennis," Agassi said. 
"Today was all about tennis." 
Joining Sampras and Kucera in the quarterfinals was No. 3 Patrick Hafter, the defending champion, as well as Swedes Jonas Bjorkman, Magnus Larsson and Thomas Johansson. 
Rafter won 6-3, 6-4, 4-6, 6-1 over No. 14 Goran lvanisevic, who was penalized a point in the final set for throwing his racket. That match also was stopped by rain Monday night, with Rafter up a set. 
Wimbledon champion Jana Novotna reached the women's semifinals with a 6-2, 6-3 win over Patty Schnyder, who ousted Steffi Graf on Sunday. No. 3 Novotna will face the winner of Tuesday night's quarterfinal between top-seeded Martina Hingis and No. 6 Monica Seles. 
Kucera overpowered the mistake­ridden Agassi at the start of the match Monday night, quickly taking a two-set advantage and a 4-2 lead in the third set. That's when Agassi turned the match around by getting under Kucera's skin. 
Kucera had struggled with his ser­vice toss throughout the first three sets. repeatedly catching the ball instead of hitting it. Agassi complained twice to umpire Norm Chryst, then took matters into his own hands ­mocking his opponent by catching his own tosses. 

"The guy's tossing it up and catching it. Is that the way it should be played?" Agassi complained. "By the time we get 16, 17 times, I had a problem with it. At some stage, whether he meant it or not, it's not acceptable. I think as he got nervous to close me out in the third set, the worst part of his game started getting worse." 
The players then engaged in long exchanges of moonballs, punctuating their psychological battle with angry glares. 
"I didn't do it on purpose. My ball toss was not good yesterday," Kucera said. "Andre did a little show. In my eyes, Andre turned around the match a little bit not fair." 
The ploy worked for Agassi, who ral­lied to win the third set and was lead­ing 3-0 in the fourth when rain wiped out play for the night. Agassi kept the momentum when play resumed Tuesday. finishing off the fourth set and taking the early lead in the fifth. 
Agassi got to set point in the fourth set with a brilliant crosscourt shot on which he ran down a lob and snapped an overhead past Kucera -who applauded the shot as Agassi nodded his head in pleasure. 
With the crowd against him and his confidence sagging, Kucera began his comeback by struggling to hold serve in the third game of the final set. 
"He wasn't making mistakes at all and I just had to win a couple of points to get confident again," he said. "It was luck for me that I could win my game when I was 2-0 down and 15­40." 
As Agassi hit a backhand long to end the match, Kucera looked to the darkening sky in relief and Agassi dipped his head in despair. 
Kucera, who had lost in the first round of the U.S. Open in each of his four appearances before this year, became the first player since Jim Courier in 1991 to defeat Sampras and Agassi in Grand Slam matches in the same year. Kucera upset Sampras in the q u arte rfin als of this year's Australian Open. 
Though Agassi has returned to ten­nis' elite after being relegated to satel­lite tournaments late last year, he remains far from the form that led him to three Grand Slam titles -including the 1994 U.S. Open championship. 
"By my normal standards, it's cer­tainly been a bad year." Agassi said. "But I've got to keep it all in contest because of how long it's been since I've even been competitive." 

• COl.HGf rODTBhll 
College football goes beyond wins and losses 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 

Ohio State athletics director Andy Geiger responded sarcas­tically Tuesday to coach John Cooper's suggestion that football players' classes, meals and practices be set up at the team's practice facility. 
"Yeah. we could have the dorms and the dining halls and the classrooms and the study hall all at the Woody Hayes Athletic Center," Geiger said Tuesday. "We could be the University of the Woody Hayes Athletic Center football team." 
At his weekly news confer­ence Monday, Cooper said Ohio State has a problem because services for athletes are not centrally located in the massive practice facility a short distance west of campus. 
"Ideally for us, you come over to Woody Hayes, you practice, you go to study hall, you eat and then you go home," Cooper said. 
But Geiger said it was impor­tant for athletes to mix with the student population and for stu­dents to have much the same academic and social opportuni­ties as athletes. 
"Having a centrally located academic support unit would mean that the athletes would have their own special place and it would become even more elite and more exclusive and more incubated than it is now," Geiger said. 
The subject came up when Cooper was asked about his players' recent academic prob­lems. 
Butkus Award-winning line­backer Andy Katzenmoyer, first-team All-Big Ten safety Damon Moore and second-team 


-
all-conference offensive guard Rob Murphy all passed summer­school classes to maintain their eligibility for the current season. 
But a pair of important back­ups-freshman defensive tack­le Paris Long and junior inside linebacker Chris Kirk -were surprised to find out they were not eligible in the days leading up to Saturday night's 34-17 opening-game victory over No. 11 West Virginia. 
Geiger and Cooper both acknowledged that Long's acad­emic advisers incorrectly count­ed his credit hours. 
"Everybody that has anything to do with academics is con­cerned about those two instances," Cooper said. "Both of those kids thought they were going to be eligible. First of all, Paris Long, we just miscalculat­ed. When I say we, I'm talking about everybody." 
Asked who in particular did the miscalculation, Cooper said, "Quite a few people. I don't know who exactly is responsible for that." 
Kirk's family blames the aca­demic counselors and has hired an attorney to look into appeals. Family members say he was only taking the courses he was told to take. 
Kirk said it was "a total shock" he couldn't play. 

Need Cash?? Earn $25.00 Today with this Ad and a student I.D. 
~--------------------------------------­
Potential of Earning $145.00 per month for 2 to 4 hours per week of your time. You choose your own schedule. 
Plasma Donations Save Lives Come Donate Today!! 

--~-·-------------~-~------~ 
Wednesday, September 9, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 15 
• Mn.J's Gmr-
Hardin defeats Connell in battle of campus champs 
Special to The Observer first playoff hole to claim Notre Sunday at Blackthorn Golf Club. 
Dame's annual campus champi­The playoff featured the last Snnior co-captain Brad !Jardin onship golf tournament, which two campus champions, as Pdg<~d junior Jell' Connell on the concluded with 36 holes on Hardin claimed the 1996 event 
THE SNITE MUSEUM OF ART 
DEFINING AMERICAN MODERNISMS 
SPECIAL LECTURE, GIVEN BY LEO MAZOW, PH.D., A GUEST CURATOR AT THE SNITE MUSEUM, ON THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, AT 
4: 15 P.M. THE LECTURE IS FREE AND IS OPEN TO THE PUBLIC. 
JOSEPH STELLA AMERICAN. 1877·1946 


FLOWERS. C. 1930 PASTEL. 12 X 18112 INCHES PURCHASED WITH FUNDS PROVIDED RY 

This exhibit or Amcrictm art primarily from the permanent collection of the Snile Museum of Art. fctilurcs painlings, prints. drawings. and photographs that highlighi certain schools of American mod­ernism, including the Ashcan school. the Fourteenth Street School. the Precisionist Movements. the Stieglitz Circle. and Regionalism 
Clarity Consulting, Inc. 
Looking for a career in a small hut nationally-recognized consult­
ing firm'f 
Clar·ity Consulting~ Inc. with offices in downtown Chicago~ special­izes in the design and implementation of leading-edge Windows­hast~d client/st•rver information systems. Clarity will be discussing can~er opportunitieH in an on-eampuH presentation. 
• 
Clarity is a young~ talented~ entrepreneurial company that has t•xtt•nHivt• t~xpet·ience in euHtom application development~ strategic planning, tedmieal deHign and projeet management within the For·tlltH' SOO community. 

• 
Clarity is a Mi<ToHoft Solution Provider Partner. 

• 
Clarity eonsultants have diverse edueational and technical back­grotlnds, inciHtling Computer Science, Engineering~ Business, and Lilwntl Ar·ts. 


If you want an exciting career which offers continuous challenges and a gr·cat future~ mark our presentation on your calender. Visit www.darityeon.eom for more information. 
DATE: Wednesday, Septemher 9th TIME: 7pm-9pm Place: LaFortune Student Center-Foster Room 

*Refreshments wiii be served.  
~)JTY ~N S U LT  IN G  !Micrrm&tllfl 1  
Partner  

DEFINING AMERICAN MODERNISMS 
SEPTEMBER 6 TO OCTOBER 18 
& 
OCTOBER 25 TO NOVEMBER I 
O'SHAUGHNESSY WEST GALLERY UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

with a score of 295 while Connell won in 1997 with a 298 (both at Blackthorn). Both play­ers finished Sunday's play with impressive 292 four-round totals, with Hardin posting a birdie on the par-4, 41 0-yard first hole to win in the playon·. 
Connell held a two-shot lead on Hardin heading into Sunday's action. after posting rounds of 72 and 73 in the tournament's opening rounds, on Aug. 29 and 
30. Hardin had opened the tour­nament last week with rounds of 78 and 69 (the top round of the tournament} on the par-72. 71 05-yard course. 
Hardin was part of the first group on Sunday, with an eye­opening 6:34 a.m. tee time, but rallied to shoot two-under on the back nine for a third-round 
71. Connell, meanwhile, teed off with the last group (7:25 a.m.), firing a 38 on the front nine and a 35 on the back nine for a 73 that dropped him into a tie with Hardin heading into the after­noon round. 
In the final round, Hardin made the turn at one-under but went three-over on the back nine for a 74 and his 292 total {+4). Connell made his final turn at even par before going two­over on the back nine to force the playoff. 
Junior co-captain Todd Vernon, who won the 1997 Big East conference tournament at Blackthorn with rounds of 70 
International Study Program in 
INFORMATION MEETING With Fr. David Burrell, C.S.C. 
Wednesday September 9, 1998 4:45P.M. 207 DeBartolo 
Thesday September 15, 1998 4:45P.M. 313 DeBartolo 
Returning students will be on hand to answer questions 

Attention all 
H.U.G.S. 
Members: 
There will be a mandatory meeting on Thursday, September lOth at 6:00pm at the C.S.C. 
I 
and 71, rallied to a third-place finish with a 297 total. Vernon turned in rounds of 72 and 73 on Sunday, after matching rounds of 76 during the previ­ous weekend's play. 
Freshman Kyle Monfort, whose summer highlights inducted shooting a nine-birdie, course-record round of 63 at his home course Muirfield Country Club struggled in his third round with a 78 before bouncing back with a final-round 70. Monfort, who posted opening rounds of 74 and n. finished just a shot behind Vernon at 298. 
Hcturning starter Willie Kent, a senior who transferred to Notre Dame from St. Louis University last spring, stormed back on Sunday after a rocky second round of 82. Kent entered Sunday in a four-way tie for 1Oth but used rounds of 72 and 71 to finish alone in fifth with a 302 total. 
Chris Whitten joined his class­mate Monfort with an impres­sive debut effort, claiming sixth place with rounds or 72-80-74­79 and a 305 total. Sophomore Pat Schaffler maintained a share of seventh place with rounds of 75 and 80 for a 309 total, after firing 76 and 78 dur­ing the first two rounds. Yet another newcomer, Steve Hatay. turned in an imprnssive perfor­mance by finishing tied for sev­enth after rounds of 78-80-74­
77. 
-
-

page 16 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, Seprember 9, 1998 

By DANA KIDNEY 
Sports \'(/ritl'r 
"It's time to stPp it up and pick up tlw pace," commented head t:oarh Hobert Sharp after yester­day afternoon's 3-1 loss to the Bt>tlwl College Pilots. 
Saint Mary's freshman Melissa Wychocki scored the only goal against a tough Bethel defense off an assist from freshman Adrian Kirby early in the first half. 
Shortly after the Belles' score, the Pilots managed to keep the ball on Saint Mary's side of the field for tlw remainder of the first half. Freshman Amber Purser shot a high line-drive above goalie Joanne Wagner's head for Bethel's first goal of the game. 
"Defensively. their mid-fielders and forwards really hurt us," said Sharp, regarding the offen­sive play of Bethel. "We needed to be more aggressive." 
Offensively for the Belles, Kirby had a great shot attempt, but wasn't able to put it in. Bethel gained possession once again, and despite solid defen­sive efforts from No. 16 Kate 

-
-
Belles fall to Bethel defense 
THE PRIEU~ AND BR~THER~ ~F H~LY ~R~~~ 

ANSWER THE CALL--------I 
www.nd.edu/-vocation 
Hyan and No. 10 Hache! Egger, Pilot Michelle Norman scored from nearly mid-field to bring the score to 2-1. 
Freshman Jessica Castronovo made a key defensive play that shunned the Pilots away from putting another point on the board. "The defense looked bet­ter than last time," said Kirby. "We're all learning to play together." 
Bethel's final score of the game was a header from fresh­man Missy Ford late in the first half. 
To open the second half, Ford got off a quick shot attempt fol­lowed by another attempt from freshman Angie Dunlap. Bethel only made one other attempt in the second half, in contrast to the 10 attempts from the Belles. 
"We definitely dominated the second half. We had so many chances, but it didn't work foi· us. We were able to make opportunities, but we just couldn't finish," senior Mary Kate HolTmann stated. 
Coach Sharp said that Kirby was definitely the key player yesterday. "Adrian Kirby contin­ually brought the ball down, but 
SMC Golf 
continued from page 20 
and form over the last two weeks of practice, Pekarek wants to ensure that when the players walk onto the course, they play respectably. 
"I want the girls to go out, be respectable, represent Saint Mary's College, and play with the proper etiquette," she said. "I want people to say that we may not be the most competitive team, but that we know what we're doing." 
Elevating the team to a more competitive level is also a prima­ry concern and has been a main focus at practices. Working with a team that is almost entirely at the same caliber of play, Pekarek will select her match players based on the outcome of inter-team matches, the first of which are set for Friday and Saturday. 
"I do this for two reasons," she said. "One, it's the most objec­tive way to select players. Two, it elevates competitive feel and elevates their play to a higher caliber." 

eouldn't get it in the net. She was key offensively today." 
Junior Katy Barger also had four shots on goal, but couldn't come away with a score. Kirby commented on what the Belles must work on. 
"We've got to get the ball in the net. That's how we are going to improve." 
In comparison to the game last week against Illinois Wesleyan, Sharp commented that the Belles did look better. 
"I felt good about the first game; I was pretty confident about last week and this week," said Sharp. "I wasn't expecting to win, but I thought today would be a better game. did." 
The Responsible Man 
A lecture by Harvey C. Mansfield 

THE FIRST ANNUAL ERIC AND MARY WEFALD UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME PRESS LECTURE 
Political scientist and Machiavelli scholar I larvcv C Mansfield is the \\.illi<ml 
R. Kcnan,.Jr., Professor of'(~O\'<'I'IIIIH"Ill at l Lu-'\'<trd t 'ninTsit\ and author ofMachiavelli's Virtue and America's Constitutional Soul. He bclie\'es that we all f~wor responsibility but we have doubts about manliness, and asks in his lecture if there is a special manly responsibility we cannot do without~ 
Thursday, September 10, 1998 7:30p.m. 141 DeBartolo Hall 

Junior Erin McCabe and the Saint Mary's squad lost a tough game yesterday to the Pilots of Bethel College, 3-1. 
Wednesday, September 9, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
With that in mind, the Irish defense in the land, one hope to improve on some of the wouldn't think that offense rais­

Football 
weaknesses exposed in the es a concern ..But Davie sees Michigan game, particularly, room for improvement in the

continued from page 20 
passing and defending the pass. aerial attack. "We realize what a challenge "We'rH going to spend a little "That's the next step for us," more time on third down Davie said. "We're going to
Michigan State presents to us," defense and getting the right work a lot on our passing game. 
Davie said. "The bottom line is they boat us every way possible personnel out on the !icld, but We need to be able to consis­
nothing dramatic," Davie said. tently throw the football better." 

last ynar and they will eome out and play their best football After putting 36 points on the Another concern for the Irish ganw of the ymu·." board against last year's best is the inevitable -injuries. 
Class of2000 

WelcoDie Back Dinner 
The fun starts at 5:30pm on Wednesday, September 9th at Stonehenge 
Catered by Subway Cost: $2.00 
Please fill out new dogbook survey 

Davie said that A'Jani Sanders {sprained ankle) and Kory Minor (turf toe) are currently listed at "50/50" for Saturday's contest while Bobbie Howard (sprained knee) will probably play. 
Minor was slowed in the Michigan game, making only one tackle. 
''I'm not concerned that he is missing work," Davie said. "I just feel bad for him because he worked so hard in the off-sea­son and in training camp he was playing the best football of his career. But I think you are going to sec a terrific football player when he is back healthy." 
After the first game last year, the Irish had to do without the services of Howard and the defense couldn't fill the void. Davie feels more comfortable this year knowing that he has more bodies capable of stepping into the lire. 
"I feel better about our depth," Davie said. "I think we've developed enough depth that we're not going to fall oiT a cliiT." 
Davie also addressed the issue of his team's suiTering a letdown after such an emotionally charged opener. 
"I think we have more than one football game in us," he said. "In fact I know we do." 
Irish Notes: 
Davie said that freshman Arnaz Battle would probably be the backup quarterback to .Jarious Jackson. 
llunter Smith will handle kick­off duties this wnekend but David Miller will make the trip and may see some action. 
Darcey Levy may get to sec more action Saturday as Davie said that he needs to gain somn experience. 



No tests ... Just papers 
Get the Chicago Tribune 
For only 
-

Per week 
.irr!ltrling Strnays 
Chicago/and's most comprehensive source for news, sports and entertainment. 
For campus delivery, call toll-free 
1-800-TRIBUNE 
-

and ask for Operator #36 to start your subscription. 
FIND IT HERE. 
<ThitaJO [ribune 

In areas where home delivery is not available, mail subscriptions will be offered at the current mail subscription rate. Offer expires December 31, 1998. chlc:agotrlbune.com 

----------~----~­
----------~~---~--·--­
page 18 The Observer· SPORTS 

-........ ...., 
Irish on the prowl at home versus Wildcats 
By ANTHONY BIANCO The excellent start has cata­thus far. very physical team, and a lot of pulted Notre Dame to a No. 15 "The team has really helped plays in the first went uncalled.
Assistant Sports Editor ranking on the National Soccer me pickup my game, and show We're a quick team, and that Wildcats can only howl for so Coaches Association of America me the ropes. [Forwards! Scott plays in their hands." Wells and Ryan Cox have Despite the advantage, the
long, till a bigger eat comes poll. In addition, freshmen 
Shane Walton's exceptional helped me get adjusted to the Irish charged to the net often in
down their alley. Northwestern 
the first with fast breaks and
strayed into such a situation play in the first two games new system," said Walton. 
Tuesday night at Alumni Field. earned him the Big East rookie Just 21 minutes into the excellent passing, but where 
The Irish, pn~paring for a of the week honors. Staring all game, though, another of the ultimately unable to penetrate Irish scoring threats went down the goal line. The only goal
stretch of Big East contests that three games for the Irish. the 
forward out of Southern with an injury. Wells was taken came on a rounlinely played
begins Ialor this week, 
out on the leg with a hard tack­drive by Cox that found its way
scratched it out with the nun­California led the team with 
three goals last week while le in the midfield that had him to Bocklage at the top left of the
conference eats in the 1-0 
assisting on two other points. motionless. Earlier this week in box. He quickly fed a cross to a
shutout. The roaring Irish have 
won their first three contests His play as a front runner has the game at Syracuse, the Irish breaking Walton for the ice­helped ignite an explosive lost wide midfielder Andrew breaker with 4:29 in the half.
this season while allowing a 
total of just two goals. attack that has posted ten goals Aris with a leg fracture that will That was all Notre Dame keep him out for 6-8 weeks. would need to beat the The vacancies created by the Wildcats, as the Irish left the two injuries left head coach field at halftime not allowing Mike Berticelli juggling his line­even one Northwestern shot to up. Berticelli replaced Wells merit goalkeeper Greg Velho's with sophomore defender Steve attention. "Our defense played Maio in at attacking midfield extremely well tonight. while moving fellow sophomore Northwest could've had some Heggie McKnight to the wide great chances, but our defense midfield spot, Aris' former posi­shut them down pretty well, tion. and we were able to get out of "[Heggie] has very little expe­here with a 1-0 win," said rience in wide midfield, but he Velho. can handle it, as can Steve The Wildcats' only snarls Maio in the attacking midfield," came in the second, and even explained Berticelli. then only twice. The first came The Irish began the game at 29:30 forward Jum Kim fired with a number of scoring one that Velho simply batted to opportunities led by Wells, Cox, the side. Walton and midfielders Ben Perhaps the best scoring Bocklage and McKnight. But opportunity of the night came Northwestern countered the with only four and a half min­attacks with a shrewd and utes left as Northwestern physical defense that picked up almost ruined Velho's shutout. several fouls early on, including Velho committed on a fastbreak two yellow cards in the first 20 along with defender Matt minutes of play. McNew, but failed to gain pos­"Northwestern is well-know session on the rebound. On the for defending to the death. All right and on the ground, an out the scouting reports say they're of position Velho was able to resillient, that they hang in, and jump back in time to defend the hang in, and hang in," said goal till co-captain Phil 
coach Berticelli. "They're a Murphy's slide tackled the ball-


carrier and breaking up the play. 
A poised Irish squad con­trolled the alley on this night in a game that they could have easily lost. not due to lack of goals, but by mental errors. 
"A year ago, we would have lost this game. We would have gotten frustrated not getting the goals, and as a result, done some dumb things to force them. We would have lost our composure and they would have taken advantage," com­mented Berticelli. 

-
-
Extra! Extra! 
The Power Macintosh G3 is the fastest comp:Jtenv~'ve ever built.With the brutish PowerPC" G3 processor at its heart, the G3 connects quici\1·; to the Internet, opens PC files with case, mcrease~ personal productivity, and uniocks creativity-at asurprisingly affordable price. 
But wait, it gets better. Ifyou purchase a PowerMac'" G3 desktop or minitowee or a PowerBook G3 betweenJuly 11 :tnd October 24, you can also choo~r l)f'r f these three powerful add-ons at no additional cost. 

Think different. 


32MB ofAdditional Memory Add this, and you have the capability to access the Internet while running multiple software applications. It also lets you work with high-end multimedia/publishing applications and squeeze every ounce of performance out of feature­rich word processing and spreadsheet software or DVD­
ROMs. 

Virtual PC2.0 with Windows 95 Just add Virtual PC and its no problem to run popular 
PC programs on your Mac. $100 Display Rebate 

Add an Apple 17" or Applt' ZO" display (16.1 and 19.02 
inch diagonal viewable image "jn~' .J your Power 
Macintosh G3 desktop, minitower,,1r PowerBook 
computer and you have the option of recr · , a $100 
rebate. 

Free Bonus Offer for Higher Ed ONLY! One Year Applecare· Service Plan 
Receive aFREE year of AppleCare' service coverage as abonus. This is in addition to the original one 
year-limited warranty for atotal of two years of service coverage. 
©lt)t)K Ap[llc Computer. Inc All n~ht' rc!>Cr\'cd Ap[llc, the Appk• kJt.:U. ,\~tcintush. f~l\\'cr ~lacmtosiJ.I\1\\'erHIKJk, i~ktc, and "Thmk UiftCrcut" arc u·;1demark.\ of Apple Computer, Inc., I'C}tbll'rrd in the li.SA. :md 1l\lwr cuuutrK.·~. \'irtuall'<: L~ atrJUemark hf Cm~UL'CIIX. A~lplcCafl.' L~ arc~~crcJ service mark of Apple Computc~, luc.l~lWt:rPC i~ atmdcmark of International Bu~inc~s ~kiChmc.\ Coq>or.Ition. LL'>ctlumlcr hc..1.'n.,c tlu:nJrum tl~Jcr product ami cornp:ill) n;unc' mentioned hcn:mma~· he tr.tdemark., nf thctr re~pL'Cit\c comp·.mtc~. ~1cntiun of nmH\pplc producl\ L'l for ltllormallotr.d purpo:~t'S un~ and cun~l!tute~ neither ancndur~nu~nt nor arcwmmcmlatiun Applr a.\~Umc~ no res[lCm~ihiUtr\\'tlh regard to the ~election. prrfurnJance. nr ll~ of tllC:.c prmlucL~. Pcrlnrmaucc cumrarisuns arc b:L-.cd onli\'TEmark intc~cr 1ndc);. 
www.a le.com/education or1-800 877-4433 
Wednesday, September 9, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD ND 
DAN SULLIVAN 



THE CLtENT 15 MOR.E 
TO TI-\E 
R..IGHT. 
38 Wodehouse's Wooster 
34 Postgraduate 
35 Shepherds, in a 40 Gray-brown way 
goose 3&Wolfs 
42 Like 37 Fuel an old sources hand 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 


ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

@ 
.. ~ 
i '0 
WE'LL L0/\0 YOU IN THE CONSULTANT CANNON, SHOOT "''OU 
TO THE CLIENT'S SITE AN 0 MONHOR 'lOUR 
~~.... 
12 Noted trans­cendentalist 
14 Shanter start 23 "Aunt -­Cope Book" 
26Numb 27 Redwood or magnolia 28 Fabric resembling broadcloth 29 Edible mushrooms 30 Sudden 
outburst 31 More patriotic 33Wheat­
preserving device 

YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS 
DAY: Michael Keaton, Hugh Grant, 
Kristy McNichol. Otis f{edding 
Happy Birthday: You should fol­
low your gut feelings this year. If you 
hesitate or wait for better times, you 
are sun.' to miss out on opportunities 
that could lead to something really 
big. You are quite capable of making 
the necessary changes that will bring 
you the kind of happiness and free­
dom that you've a/ways dreamed of 
having. The choice is yours, so be 
brave and go for it. Your numbers: 13, 
24, 28, 31, 37, 49 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Sud­
den changes in your domestic scene 
are inevitable. Temper tantrums 
won't help the situation. Try not to let 
your problems cause your career to 
suffer, or job-hunting may be on your 
agenda. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You 
should avoid confrontations with 
individuals who may have a tenden­
cy to get physical. Minor accidents 
will occur if you aren't extremely 
careful while operating equipment or 
machinery. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Sud­den romantic infatuations will not be lashng. Don't be too quick to let new acquaintances know all about your personal life or your financial situa­tion.OOOO 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You can expect opposition from your part­ner. The inevitable changes in your life may cause some sorrow. Simple acceptance of the situation is the key to emotional stability. 00 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Stomach problems may prevail if you insist on eating spicy foods or overindulging yourself. Be careful what you say; someone you can't trust is listening. 
Birthday Baby: You have what it takes to be great. You will treat success like an everyday occurrence. You are independent and quite willing to face whatev­er situation arises without help from anyone else. You take things as they come and quickly make whatever adjustments are necessary. 
(Need advice? Call Eugenia at 900-484--7827. Your phone company will bill you $1.99 per minute.) 0 1998 Universal Press Synd~eatl' lie or she is ready to make you look 
bad.OOOOO 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Sud­
den reversals of fortunl~ will cause 
ma1or financial setbacks. You mustn't 
lend ur borrow money in any case. 
Try to be understanding of children 
and their dilemmas. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): An 
overindulgent partner may cause dif­
ficulties for you. Try to be completely 
honest-both with yourself and oth­
ers -when you assess your personal 
environment. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Oon't 
confide in co-workers. You may find 
that they will be much too eager to 
reveal your secrets. The anger and 
deception that is stirred up could 
cause a sudden reversal of your good 
fortune. 000 
SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): The opportunity for romance is pre­sent; however, it appears to be either one-sided or short-lived. You should be concentrating on friendship, not courtship. 00000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can put your excess energy into home-improvement projects; howev­er, be sure that you don't spend more on the supplies than your budget will allow.OO 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Your competitive drive will finally lead you to the winner's circle. Be careful not to overspend on entertain­ment. You can be taken for granted if you aren't discriminating. 0000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Prob-­lems with skin, bones or teeth should be tended to immediately. You must steer clear of joint financial ventures. Losses are evident if you let someone else handle your hard-<>amed money. 000 


The Observer 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
-

Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
0 Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ 
-

Address ______________________________________ City----------State ____ Zip,_______ 
• 


• Senior golfer Brad 
• Notre Dame men's 

Hardin wins annual 
soccer team slips past 

Notre Dame campus 
Northwestern, 1-0 at 

. .,. 
championship. 
Alumni Field. 
p.JB
PORTS 
p.l5 
O THE 

page 20 BSERVER ----------------Wednesday, September 9, 1998 


Big Mac's bomb breaks Maris' mark 
McGwire homer No. 62 leaves him alone atop the baseball record books 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS 
Without a doubt or an asterisk, Mark McGwire and his mighty swing broke Roger Maris' home run record Tuesday night with plenty of games to spare. 
Historic No. 62 was a lined shot to left, punc­tuating a chase that reinvigorated the sport and captivated the nation. 
McGwire connected with two outs off Steve Trachsel, setting off a wild celebration in Busch Stadium. He was so caught up in the moment that he missed first base as he rounded the bag and had to return to touch it. 
From there, McGwire got handshakes from every Chicago infielder and a hug from catcher Scott Servais. Cubs right fielder Sammy Sosa, who had 58, home runs, ran in from right field to hug McGwire and give his rival a high five. 
McGwire was mobbed by his teammates at home plate, where he hoisted hislO-year-old batboy son Matt into the air. 
McGwire then ran into the seats to hug the family of Roger Maris, whose 37-year-old record he had just broken. 
There was no scramble for the souvenir. The 341-foot home run was the shortest of the sea­son for McGwire, and landed in an area where no fan could get it just over the left-field wall. 
Instead, the ball was picked up by a grounds crew worker, Tim Forneris, who said he will give it to McGwire. 
"I knew it was going out, and it went right over the edge, and I said, 'That's going out,' " he said. "So I ran on to the field and got it." 
see MCGWIRE/ page 12 


KRT Photo Mark McGwire celebrates breaking Roger Maris' home run record of 61 by hoisting his 1 0-year-old son Matthew into the air. 
22-year-old fan retrieves home run ball, presents it to McGwire at ceremony 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS 
When homer No. 62 linally came, the whole affair proved far easier than anybody thought. 
The talk had !lowed everywhere for weeks. Who'd catch it? Should they keep it? Would the ms come calling? 
And the most pressing question: Give it back gratis or take Mark McGwire and the Cardinals for as much cash and cool stuff as possible? 
Unlike so many of McGwire's home runs. this one didn't make it into the left-field stands. Instead, the line drive shot over the left field fence, where Tim Fornnris ran it down and pieked it up -Tim Forneris, part of the Busch Stadium grounds crew. 
He promptly set about returning the spe­cially and secretly marked, individually num­bered ball to Tho Man Of The II our. 
"It's not mine to begin with," the 22-year­old Forneris said, though tnchnically it was once he got his hands on it. "McGwire just lost it, and I brought it home. I'm just a regu­lar Joe." 
At a postgame ceremony, Forneris present­ed McGwire with the ball. "Mr. McGwire, I think I have something that belongs to you," IHl said. McGwirn took the ball, lookPd at it and held it up triumphantly. 
When the ball flnw off McGwire's bat, Forneris and his brother. Tino. were working behind the outfield fence under. appropriate-
see BALLI page 12 


• SAINT MARv'S GOLf 
Davie and Co. remain focused Belles strive for 
By JOEY CAVATO 
Associate Sports Editor 
While we still relish in the enjoyment of Saturday's whoop­ing of the ex-champs and figure out the scenario that will give Notre Dame a spot in the National Championship game in the Fiesta Bowl, Bob Davie does not. 
"We haven't made any tee times for Phoenix yet," the head coach said at his weekly press conference Tuesday afternoon. 

-
His focus, as well as his team's, remains on a trip to a place less exotic -East 
Lansing, Mich. 
The Michigan State Spartans limped back home after drop­ping their first two contests. They will host the Irish under­neath the lights after getting spanked by Oregon 48-14 and squandering a 16-0 lead to Colorado State, eventually losing 23-16. 
Those two facts do not mean that Davie is taking the Spartans lightly. He points to the last time the Spartans faced the Irish. 
see FOOTBALL I page 17 

par in links debut 

By NOREEN GILLESPIE Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's golf team may not win any conference titles in its inaugural year of play, but if things go the way head coach Teresa Thomas Pekarek expects, they will be respectable. 
"We're not going to win any conference titles or shoot the lights out," said Pekarek. "What I told the girls is the main thing is that they get used to playing on the college level and get used to playing with better players." 
Pekarek said she is excited about the addition of goll' at Saint Mary's. "It's more com­mon now," said Pekarek. "When I played in high school, we didn't have a women's team. Now most high schools have women's teams. It's a great addition to Saint Mary's athletics." 
The game of golf is in Pekarek's blood. Her father, 
The Observer/Meg Kroener George Thomas, is the men's 
The Irish are hoping senior inside linebacker Bobbie Howard will be at golf coach at Notre Dame. 
full-strength against the Spartans after spraining his knee Saturday. 
Both PGA professionals, she said her father has "been my guiding light through all this, showing me the ropes." 
Pekarek said she was enthusi­astic about the season and about working with women who, "arn hard workers and want to take their game to thB next level." 
While all seven of the team mBmbers have previous high school or other competitive experienw, college play entails an 18-hole course, while high school games only shoot Bight. 
''I'm trying to gBt the girls used to playing an 18-hole game," Pekarek said. "Right now, they're at the top of their eight-hole game, especially com­ing off the summer. I told them over the summer to be at the top of' their game, no excuses." 
Teaching is the main stratBgy for Pekarek, whose primary concern is to makB sure the women know the ruins of the game. 
Working on rules, !ltiquBtte, 
see BELLES/ page 19 

-
ar Michigan Srare vs Pinsburgh Sarurday, 7 p.m. Sunday, 1 p.m. 
SPORTS 
Cross Coumry vs Loyola, Purdue, Buder
ATA 
vs Duke Saturday, 11 a.m. 

at Wisconsin at Chapel Hill, N.C. 
Friday, 7 p.m. 
Friday, 5 p.m. 
GLANCE 





