~--~-------------------------~~-------------------~-----~------------------------------------------------------------------------­

Wednesday, February 11, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No. 89 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S , 
Autopsy: Brumbaugh died of enlarged heart 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY Nrws Writer 
Funnral arrangements have been made and details have been revealed about what caused the sudden death of Notre Dame s1~nior Justin Brumbaugh on Sunday in the computer cluster in the College of Business Administration. 
The autopsy performed Monday indicated the cause of Brumbaugh's death was an enlarged heart. Brumbaugh collapsed on Sunday at 3:20 
p.m. in the COBA computer cluster and was taken to St. 
J o s e p h ' s -•..:-1:1=-'·,•··'I•JF Medical Center where he was 
• «A Tribure pronounced 
to Justin dead at 4:30 
Brumbaugh" 
p.m. p.~ Visitation. a L·-·~_........;......,.._, 
prayer service and Mass for Brumbaugh will take place in Dayton, Ohio. The visitation will take place at the Westbrook Funeral Home today from 4 to 8 p.m. followed by a prayer service on Thursday at 9:30 a.m. at the funeral home and a procession to Emmanuel Catholic Church, where Mass will take place at 10 a.m. For more information, the funeral home can be con­tacted at (937) 228-6161. 
Members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities will travel to Ohio for the funeral service. 

"We were able to get a large bus that would hold 57 people, but some people are still choosing to drive," David Stocker, Brumbaugh's resident advisor, said. 
"There are mostly people from Knott going, but there are also people from other men and women's dorms on campus and from Saint Mary's going." 
The bus will leave at 12 p.m. today from the Library Circle 
• )AINT MARY'S SECURITY BEAT 
Car break-ins remain· under investigation 
By LISA MAXBAUER Nrws Writer 
Several hallowed windows covered with plastic garbage bags and duck tape markr.d the Saint Mary's student parking lot aftm· tho massive amount of vehicle brnak-ins last Wednesday. 
Tho director of Saint Mary's Security. Richard Chlebek, commented that the episode remains "a difficult casP to understand." Chlebek said it was unusual because nothing was stolen from half the cars involved. lie labeled the incident "more of a van­
dalism than anything else." Tlw 15 break-ins were specuIated to have occurred between 2 a.m. and 8 
a.m. on the morning of Feb. 4. 
Junior Tina Alley's car was one of tho chosen 15 whose windows were smashed in. Replacing the glass will cost over $130. When the culprits 
realized the detachable face to her CD player was not in the glove box, "they must have moved on to the next car," Alley explained. 
Among the items that were taken from student vehicles were compact disk players, COs, one cellular phone and a set of speakers. 
Junior Kelly Van Overbeke's vehi:ele was "parked in the very first row, under a light" and the passenger side window was still hallowed out. Nothing was stolen from the car, but , Van Overbake was surprised that these violations occurred "in such a 
see VANDALS I page 4 ' 

Awaiting Mardi Gras 

at Notre Dame. 
Since Brumbaugh's death on Sunday, the college community has been partaking in various activities to remember him. 
"We had a memorial Mass with Justin's parents last night in the dorm and that was hard," Stocker said. "Some people are dealing with it bet­ter than others, but we are taking it day by day. The dorm is still in somewhat of a shock." 


Health services promotes week of random kindness 
By MELANIE GARMAN Saint Mary's Assistant News Editor 
As a women's institution, Saint Mary's College promotes the physical and emotional well-being of its students. As the campus celebrates Random Acts of Kindness Week, many organi­

zations and departments have partic­ipated ~n events for the betterment of the students, faculty, and 
staff. 

This year's Random Acts of Kindness Week is being sponsored by the Saint Mary's College Health Services, in conjunction with the Wellness Center. After being informed of the event through South Bend's Memorial Hospital, Debbie Bauters, a Health Services regjstered nurse, decided to take the project on herself. 
"Health Services is oftentimes viewed as the place to go when you are sick," said Bauters. "We thought that this event could inform and educate students, as well as create a positive bond between both students and the health ser­vices facility." 
Some of the activities that have taken place on the campus include a giving tree displaying slips of paper with acts of kindness on them and bulletin boards located in each of the dorms with posters that read "It's nice to be important, and it's important to be nice." On each bulletin board, students have the opportu­nity to voice their own acts of kindness on a pledge card, stating what they have done to help a friend or classmate. 
To incorporate faculty and staff into the Random Acts of Kindness Week, each depart-
see KINDNESS I page 4 

~--------------------------------------------_J 
• STUDENT SENATE 

Senate discusses Latino/Hispanic studies, service week 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN Associate News Editor 
An initiativn to establish a Latino/Jiispani1: studies department and the announcnnwnt of a "Mother Teresa Service Week" at the end of March high­lighted the Studont Senate meeting last night. 
The meeting, held on Tuesday night bncause of the funeral tomorrow in Ohio for Justin Brumbaugh, which both stu­dent body presidont Matt Griffin and stu­dent body vice pn~sident Erek Nass will attend. was strictly informational since a quorum was not prosent. 
Th1~ Latino/llispanie studies initiative will feature a social and discussion with visiting scholars and Notre Dame faculty. It begins at 9:30 p.m. on Friday at the Cm1ter for Social Concerns. The event will last until 11:30 p.m. with a dance and music by Sabor Latino, a band made up of Notre Dame faculty, staff and stu­dents. 
"We have an African-American studies department, an Irish studies department and an Asian studies department," Nass said. "The Hispanic population is the largest minority on campus, and we don't have a department for Hispanic studies. Hopefully this is something that will help." 
Jake Cooper, senator from Stanford Hall and Brandon Williams, senator of Zahm Hall, presented the idea for a Mother Teresa Service Week. "The pur­pose of this is to show that there are opportunities for service in the South Bend community," Cooper said. 
The sign-ups for the week should circu­late beginning on Feb. 25. All who are interested can also ask their hall senators and presidents for information. 

-~--~----------~ ----~---~­
---~ -----~ ---~ 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, February I I, 1998 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

Be true to your school 
Notre Dame school spirit nourishes as much as at any other campus across the country. Many stu­dents here swell with pride · every time they pull on a sweatshirt with IHISIJ sewn across the chest, or go horne to questions of. "What's it like to go to Notre Dame?" 
But then there are times when being a Dorner makes me want to take oil' that sweat­shirt and just go with the I lard Hock Cafe t­shirt. And many of these times seem to come at sporting evenl'i-football and basketball in particular. 
Last Tuesday, The Observer ran a letter from Jared Birnbaum and Jim I lerbe in which the writers suggested that the athletic department was trying to stop their fun at basketball games. While asking an avid hoops fan to turn over an innocent sign he or she has created simply to get a little air time on national televi­sion seems pointless, the athletic department's attempt to thwart students' "sucks!" chants at Irish games is a good move. 
At most. this "tradition" (not all of them at Notre Dame are a good thing] is base and childish. Not everyone agrees with it, not every­one follows it, and not everyone swells with pride when other student.<; so arrogantly seream it. 
The reason fans go to athletic competitions should be to support their team or individual players. Bulls fans don't make the trip to the United Center to boo Shaquille O'Neal and the Lakers. 
We should be out there supporting the Irish, cheering them onward to victory. Demoralizing the opposing team will come when a player misses an easy lay-up or shoots an air ball. And the loud. continuous droning when the visiting team tries to set up its ollcnse is a big show of unity. 
But to scream a vulgarity right otT the bat when the rest of the arena is silent is imma­ture. The other players know what we think of them; we're not out there in Syraeuse, Boston College or Georgetown shirt.<;. No one's going to mistake the Joyce Center for Madison Square Garden. Well, not if we stop this particular chant. 
The University was able to do the right thing and take away the announcement of starting lineups at football games because the new scoreboard allowed the players to be flashed during pregame festivities. But the announce­ment of the lineups at basketball games is part of the event, and will never disappear. 
So it is up to us to grow up and abolish it. Again, not everyone stoops to the level needed to scream "sucks!" at each player.·Some of us -you 'II find us in the first row of section 14 tonight and every game -simply turn our backs and wait tor the Irish names to be announced. 
A'> Notre Dame students, we want to be bet­ter than our counterpart.<; at Duke, Georgetown and Michigan. We'll do so by separating our­selves from them, not by imitating them. We need to be more clever; we need to be more unique. 
Tonight, if you're going to the game, turn your back with the rest of us. Or pull out a book while Boston College is announced. Maybe bring The Observer, reading it in front of your face until the Eagles' coach is announced. Just come up with something better than "sucks!" 
We're so far above that. Let's show it. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


•  TOOAY's STAFF  
News  Accent  
Christine Kraly  Nora Meany  
Sean Smith  Rachel Torres  
Sarah Dylag  Graphics  
Sports  Jon King  
Brian Kessler  Production  
Viewpoint  Betsy Baker  
Tara Churik  Lab Tech  
Megan Kroener  
Wedn~sday~ 38 36 Thursday ~ 44 33 


The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday ~xc~pt during e-xam and vac.arion p~riods. The Observ~r is a m~mb~r of rhc Associar~d Press. All reproduction rights arc re~rvcd. 

(~---,,~\Outside the Dome 
__,,\ .. _.,~· ""\\ 

·'\~/ ·· Compiled from U-Wire reports 
University of Arizona promotes education with free tuition 
TUCSON, Ariz. 

UA president Peter Likins Friday promised a free college education to 101 third-grade students who attend a southside elementary school -but only if the students meet the UA's admission requirements when they arc high school seniors. 
Likins, who announced his plan to the children and Tucson community members in the Memorial Student Union's Senior Ballroom, said it is not just about giving the children of C.E. Rose· Elementary School a free ride to college. 
"The tuition is the easy part," he said. "We have to give these kids sup­port for 10 years." 
The University of Arizona partnered with the Southern Arizona Crime Prevention Partnership to provide the tuition waivers after Tucson Unified School District identified the children at 
C.E. Rose as at risk to drop out of neighborhoods. " 

The Rotary Club of Tucson will estab­lish a fund to provide the students with money for books and living expenses once they come to the UA. Rotary Club members have also promised to be role models and mentors for the children. 
"The third graders are young enough where we can still do some preven­
• YALE UNIVERSITY 
Family background affects financial aid 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. 

Yale's financial aid officers like to deal with numbers and ligures, but the increasing prevalence of one-parent families often force them to delve into the private lives of students. Twenty percent of Yale's financial aid students have parents who arc divorced, separated or were never married. The complicated relationships that result often put financial aid officers in the difficult position of judging whether-or how much -the non-custodial parent should be expected to pay. "There's no way to run it through a computer," university financial aid director Donald Routh said. "It's an area where we're open to some negotiation as long as we're not treating those stu­dents subjectively differently." The yield rate-the num­ber of accepted students who choose to matriculate to Yale-for financial aid students from single-parent fami­lies is 10 percent lower than the rate for aided students from two-parent households. 
• UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA 
New bills focus on alcohol and tuition 
CIIAHLOTTESVILLE. Va. 

Students may start thinking twice before ordering that second round of drinks -their behavior could cost them a chance at in-state tuition or financial aid, or worse. In a state-wide effort to curb alcohol abuse on college cam­puses, two bills now proposed in the General Assembly ­one in the House and one in the Senate-propose revok­ing in-state tuition and suspending financial aid or enroll­ment for students convicted of alcohol or drug offenses. Last semester, there were four alcohol-related deaths at public colleges in Virginia, including the death of fourth­year college student Leslie Ann Baltz. An intoxicated Baltz was left unattended and died in a fall during the Thanksgiving holiday. Schools nationwide continue to experience similar alcohol-related injuries and fatalities. The Massachusetts Institute for Technology, for instance, bannc'd on-campus alcohol in response to an alcohol­related death. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather'"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

L 


4,Q,~q~Q (f ~ u 
lion," said Hegina Murphy-Darling, Hotary Club president. "It is our last chance to keep them away from drugs and crimn before thny get too far down thn road." 
Avelina Trujillo, C.E. Hose's prinei­pal, said she was overwhelmnd when she learned about thn project. 
"This is l~mtastie. It is a dream come trun for me," she said. "I grew up in this community and I know what these kids have to deal \With. I feel like this is happening to me." 
Santos Armenta, a third-grader at 
C.E. Hose, said he is ready for the chal­lenge. "I know it is going to be hard, but I'm excited to be a Wildcat," he said. 
After C.E. Hose, the children will attend Waknlield Middle School, then Pueblo High School. 
The UA hopes the frm~ education pro­ject will encourage the children to stay in school. 

• UNIVERSITY Of OREGON 
University aids Asian student finances 
EUGENE, Ore. 

"Within 30 minutes of sending out thn e-mail about the scholarships, we had someone asking to apply," said Tom Mills, University International Education and Exchange dime­tor. "We didn't even have an application made yet." The Office of International Education and Exc:hange dedded to free up $50,000 of the $250,000 prindpal it has set asidn in the Kenneth Ghent International Scholarship Fund to aid international students hit by the Southeast Asian economic crisis. The money will provide 50 $1.000 scholarships to the most needy students. Any international studcmt can apply for the scholarships, but preference will be given to students from Indonesia, South Korea, Malaysia and Thailand. The deadline to apply is March 2. The university establislwd the fund 25 years ago with the donations of international alumni. Usually the exchange otlice uses the interest from the fund ­between $12,000 and $15,000 annually-to provid11 schol­arships for international students. 
• TEXAS A&M Computer companies to upgrade A&M 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas 

What used to take Texas A&M students several minutes to do will soon take only a few seconds after Compaq, Intel and Microsoft announced plans last week to increase the speed of the Internet by 30 times. The three companies joined forces with GTE Corporation to make upgraded modems that plug into normal telephone lines without interrupting the voice line. Hichard Spiller, supervisor of open access labs, said the reason there arc so many delays in downloading information is because of data­heavy graphics. "Some pages have more images and graphics," he said. "Therefore, there is more information to download and it takes longer." The traditional method, converting digital computer data into analog format, only reaches 53,000 bits per second. The new speed should reach 1.5 megabits per second. Spiller said imagns that now would take a minute or longer to view will appear in a few seconds. 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Fargo 32 20 Memphis 54 37 Seattle 52 42
V1a Associated Press GraphicsNet 
• NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, Feb. 11. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1998 AccuWeather, lnc. 
PffJssure 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Vl.t AssOCiated PtiiSS 

Atlanta 52 38 Helena 38 18 Miami 78 67 Baltimore 52 44 Houston 68 42 New York 50 44 Camden 54 44 Kennebunk49 37 Orlando 77 54 Dallas 64 39 Los Ang. 64 50 Phoenix 66 46 

page 3 

The Observer Examines ••• 
' 



omens 
ews 
Wednesday, February II, I998 

FEMINISM AS IT STANDS T 0 DAY 
What does i•"IS:ORICAL REPORT 
feminism mean to you? 

"Feminism is accepting the possibilty to examine the world as it stands. It means fully accepting
Shannon Crunk 
yourself as a 

Senior, LeMans 
woman and 

being dedicted to rn-inventing womanhood on your own .terms." 

"People mis­interpret feminism as some terrible racist thing. People don't understand that mcog-
Joelle Farmer nizing Junior, Lyons women isn't a terrible thing. Fnminism is about acknowl­edging individuality." 
"There's the stnrnotype meaning and the real mean­ing. The 
stereotype is of a woman who is radical and out of control. Jill Moore The real Junior, LeMans meaning is about wanting equality-it's 


about deserving to bP respected." 

"A respect for equality ofmnn and women that recognizes a certain approach to solving social 
Robert Hohl 
problems 

Reference Librarian 
that doesn't necessarily follow the traditional patri­archy." 

"Feminism means to me that women can do any­thing men can do. There should be no difference in 
career oppor-Presidenr ofSainr tunities, Mary's 
salary levels, social status and leadership <ipportunitics." 

"It carries a negative con­notation. You don't hear anything like mascu­lanism." 
Ken Kearney 
Senior, Stanford 

Feminism bears extended roots 
II ByANNESCHNEEMAN 
' News Writer 
I 
The world's first organized movement on the behalf of women began with a state­ment by Elizabeth Cady Stanton at a small church in Seneca Falls, N.Y. She asserted that by 1848, the time had come for "the question of women's wrongs to be-laid before the public." 
The movement started by Stanton and Susan B. Anthony peaked out in the 1920s after women's suf­frage was finally reached, but over the next 40 years, the strength of the women's movement waned. 
Although this period saw a relative dormancy in femi­nism, it was by no means dead. Women writers like Virgina Woolf, Mary Beard and Simone De Beauvoir continued to assess how women functioned in the world. 
lt was not until 1957, when Columbia University published the study "Womanpower, A Statement by the National Manpower Council," that women were being evaluated again on a political and national level. 
The study focused on "women's experience in the work force, their employ­ment needs, and the impli­cations of both for educa­tion, training, and public policy." 
The council's suggestion that a committee be formed to evaluate women's roles was ignored by. the 
• GENDER STUDIES 

Gender programs recent to campuses 
By LORI ALLEN 
Saint Mary's Editor 
NobOdy would argue with the state­ment that gender relations on the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame campuses are less than ideaL With single-sex dorms and an apparent lack of healthy social interaction amongst th~ m,en a.ptl women of both campuses, the can for improvement rings loudly as the 21st century rapiljly approaches. 
Universities and colleges such as Notre Dame and Saint Mary's have been preparing for the millennium with attempts to diversify and broaden theil:' • communities in a number ofways, including the addition ofgender studies and women's studies departments, respectively. 
When the University of Notre Dame convert~d to co-educational_status in 1972, it was the beginning of' a new.~ra 


"Feminism 
"Feminism is means a bundle of equality of sensitivity 
gender, race, unattainable economics by men." status and 

social stand­ing." Melanie Smith John Pohlmeyer 
Junior, LeMans Senior, Off-Campus 
Eisenhower administration. The feminist movement found a national rebirth in 1961 when President Kennedy established The Commission on the Status of Women. Eleanor Roosevelt was appointed Chair of the Commission forming an important link between early suffragists and the revitalized feminist move­ment. 
The disappearance of fem­inism from the forefront of history meant that the emerging women of the 1960s had to rediscover the basic truths about the oppression of women for themselves. Much of the early feminist literature was out of print or unavailable in libraries. 
By 1965, six states had enacted minimum wage laws that applied to both women and men. Six states adopted laws to give women over­time pay. Four states amended jury selection pro­ceedings that discriminated against women. Several states eliminated the differ­ence in the age at which women and men could marry. The '60s saw a rebirth of successful, politi­cal activism for women, but this rebirth also saw a sepa­ration. 
Many women who were frustrated by the discrimina­tion in the professional world joined national orga­nizations like the National Organization for Women. Other women, most of them veterans of the civil rights 

in Notre Dame history as accommoda-Rimelspach. tions were mad(;l for the omen. Yet it According .to the gender studies was not until 16 y~ ._-, •h.l1988;. ~nnualrep'dr(from 1996.~97, gender 
that a group of gt\nde > _--_ .• s .faculty­obtained a Lilly Folini:lation Grant which funded the first tliree years of a gender studies program. The 
University would b!'igi  hOnor its .. co~  
oducationalst~~u~.  
The gender .~tilqiflS  
brate its 10th anniv  
and over the past niney  rs, tho nmn­ 

ber of undergraduate concentrators has incre<i,sed by 383 percent, from 12 studentsjn·1988 to.46in 997. 
"I. feel J9at at ~. ·~· . . J~ke •.•Notr~ .. Dame when:~ many. ···.···........ e stllderits either went to same~sex high schools or come from very traditional families, that the gender studies program really helps, especially fema,lti-students; find 
their place atNotr~ ~ · S/lid seniqr .•.·.·. ~-....,.....~-:"±li!f+-:----...,'----c:-:-:::-::::"'=::--:c~---,:" gender stutiil:is con )or Rene see STUI)IES /page 6 
and anti-war activism, strayed from a formal struc­ture and worked in loosely organized groups. This began the complex defini­tions of what the word femi­nism means. 
Early feminism did not examine the psychological consequences of gender dis­crimination for women, but second-wave feminism insisted on the central importance of liberation of women s consciousness. They developed the innova­tive technique of conscious­ness-raising, by means of which women could help one another overcome negative feelings about themselves and their place in the world. 
Even though feminism has been infused all throughout modern culture, in books and magazines, in art and art history, in the_ classroom and the boardroom, defining feminism can be almost impossible because the response varies from person to person. 
By the early 1980s a back­lash to feminism had formed, and repercussions for women were extensive. Public support for rape cen­ters, women's health facili­ties, and shelters for bat­tered women retreated. 
The anti-feminism of the 1980s gave a damaging blow to the perception of femi­nism. In her book "Backlash: The Undeclared War Against American Women," Susan Faludi exposed instances of misin­formation and outright 
"It means a million differ­things. It's not about 
being mili­tant. It's about an 
equal view of Stephanie Smith women so Senior, Off-Campus they can do 

whatever they want." 
studies ranks first among the concen­trations in the number of courses that faculty choose to crosslist: 77 courses .in 1996-97. up from 19 in 1988-89, an increase o[405 percent. Originally funde<l;•. hyt.ll,.·.threo"yea.r grant of $48.000,. th~ Dean's office took over funding o(tbe gender studies program in 1991-92, allotting it an annual bud· get of $7,000. 
As interestinthe program grew and .the number of~oncentrators increased, a propO?al·.\\<'~~ draJted. calling for the ·approvaLofgender studies• as· a second major. The proposal was endorsed by the gender studies executive commit­tee, and tht(Dean's Undergraduate Advisory Committee began discussion 
deception that fed the anti­feminist reaction. But Faludi said, "women never really surrendered." Many women kept the faith and managed to maintain the primary goals of the movement. 
Feminism in the 90's faces a familiar problem. It's is once again approaching a changing ?f the guard. The 
see ROOTS I page 6 
feminism Through the Years 
•In the 1960s, 53 per­cent of female college 

raduates·n~l<:ijobs. 
-197'1., -­
Representative ·-Martha Grifths testi­
---. fled that in 1970 at Virginia state schools, 21,000 women were 
rejected compared 
with zero men. 
11-ln 1980, new commu­nity propertyl(;l\IIJS fjna,lly reliev~g ~us­
---_ bands of their status as "head and mas­ters" of the house­old. 992 became known 
Woman" when the . percentage of women . ln Congressrc.i(?Ubled -----·-·----from•S to 1Qp~rcent. 

"Extremes are bad and feminism is an extreme; it's just like chauvinism." 
Matias Bruizoni 
Visitor 



page4 
Kindness 
continued from page 1 
ment received a letter with eight suggestions on how they could make the workplace a kinder place to be. Each letter contained a heart-shaped lol­lipop to be passed onto a peer during the day. 
"I have put a great deal of time and effort into the differ­ent activities that arc taking place this week," said Bauters. "The most rewarding experi­ence of the week took place on Monday when the first student approached the table inside of the dining hall and said thank you for taking the time to put together this event." 
The Wellness Center is cur­rently in the process of extend­ing its kindness to the commu­nity by coordinating lectures, speakers, and nutritionists on women's health issues. The center is primarily used as an outlet for women concerning emotional health issues, as well as some aspects of physi­cal health. 
According to Judy Kenney, director of the Wellness Center, the center provides students with information on all types of physical and men­tal diseases and disorders, and it also offers counseling on any issue students feel thny would like to discuss. 
A wnllness advisory commit­tee has recently been created consisting of professors, stu­dents and administration. The 
~-~~~-~-~ 

group hopes to explore the many program options avail­able to the community by sending out a survey asking students what they would like to discuss or take part in regarding women's issues. 
The center offers various types of relaxation tapes, videos, and 15-minute neck massages to relieve stress. On Feb. 22, nutritionist Becky Cook will give a lecture addressing what a woman's daily diet should consist of. how to balance what one would like to eat with what one should eat, and will answer any questions students have on general nutrition. 
"I have found many of the books and pamphlets very informational," said Christine Arzt, who works for Health Services. "They contain arti­

~-~---~~-~--­
Wednesday, February 11, 1998 
number of vehicles disturbed in one night.


Vandals 
Alley urged for better protec­tion from Security since this

continued from page 1 
was not the first time the cam­large gap of time, and on cam­pus has been hit with prob­pus." lems. "We pay money for their Saint Mary's Security has protection," Alley said, refer­
made no arrests but is working ring to the annual $50 Saint on some leads in this case. Mary's students pay to park in Similar behavior has plagued the student lot. "This shouldn't both Saint Mary's and Notre happen to 15 cars in one Dame campuses this year. night," Alley added. "There is no way to determine Chlebek reported that some if this incident is related to ear­measures had been taken since lier vandalism." Chlebek stat­last Wednesday "to discourage ed, but Security is trying "to further problems." Security tie it to earlier Notre Dame cars are already frequenting 
apprehensions." So far no the McCandless parking lot proof has linked the two occur­offering their nightly escort rences together. service for students returning 
Chlebek recalled these most to their dorms. In addition to cles on relationships, health, recent circumstances of van­the service, they have and nutrition, which are topics dalism and theft to be "the increased patrols to the lot and of every young woman's con­worst I've seen in 14 years" at have a security officer alternat­cern." the College. due to such a high ing hourly within the lot. 
.,. 
The Observer/Kristi Suturious Debbie Bauters, a registered nurse in Health Services, helps students choose a lollipop and a "random act of kindness." ­


The George Warren Brovvn School of Social Work 
at Washington University in St. Louis 
is now accepting applications for the Fall 1998 semester 
GWB was ranked #1 of schools of social work by U.S. News &World Report 
Five concentrations: ochikten, )Wlh, and f<n~ily services -gerontology -health 

In order to be eligible for over 100 merit-based 1998-1999
omental health 

scholarships, aU application materials are due by March 1, 1998!
"SScial cn:l economic deYelopment 
Three specia6zations: •fanily therai7i 
-management 
oresea-t:h 

For more infonnation call (314) 935-6676 or check out our web page at http:l/gwbweb.wustl.edu 


Valentine's Special 
Irish Gardens is a student run business located in the basement of LaFortune. 
Open from r2:3o-5:3oPM 
Monday through Saturday 
631--4004 

Campus Ministry Events 
OFFICE OF CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hesburgh Library 
631-7800 112 Badin Hall 631-5242 
www.nd.edu./-ministryI 

Wednesday, February 11, 7:00-8:00 pm Keenan-Stanford Chapel 
Contemporary Choir Rehearsal 
All are welcome to join in this new choir! 
Wednesday, February 11, 7:00-8:00 pm Walsh Hall Chapel 

EMMAUS: Mini-Rally 
February 12 -February 24 Sign-up: 
Freshmen Retreat #16 (Feb. 27-28) 
Of special interest: . Latino/Hispanic Studies Initiative: Social with visiting scholars and NO faculty, followed by 
a dance at the Center for Social Concerns, Friday, Feb. 13, 9:30-11:30 pm. . Sophomore Class Retreat, Feb. 20-21 . NDE #51 (March 27-29)Sign-up, Feb. 23-27 

Wednesday, February 11, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• NA!lONAl NEWS BRIEFS 
EPA to require quality reports for drinking water 
WASIIJNGTON 
The Environmental Protection Agency is set to unveil new requirements that for the first timP-will provide citizens with details on what chemicals are found in their drinking water and whether it meets fed­Mal safety standards. In a statement, President Clinton said the new water qual­ity reports are nncessary to "ensure that Amrricans have the information they need about the safety of their drinking water." The Food and Drug Administration is con­sidering whether to also require "right-to­know" labeling on bottled water. The FDA is working with the bottle water industry on new guidelinPs on what information should be required in such labeling. The EPA proposal, which is expected to become final latcr this year after a 45-day comment period, requires that drinking water suppliers provide an annual assess­ment of watnr quality as part of water bills S!mt to customers. The first such reports likely would not be sent out until next Y!~ar. although some communities might provide them earlier, EPA officials said Tuesday. The annual report will provide "a snapshot" of the condition of a munici­pality's drinking watnr supply, said an EPA official. speaking on the condition of not being identified furthnr. 
U.S. issues threat to Iraq 
WASJIINGTON 
While delaying a decision on whether to bomb Iraq, tho Clinton administration raised the stakes Tuesday by threatening another attack if President Saddam llussein managed to rebuild his weapons arsenals after a first assault. Claiming growing support for a strike if diplomacy fails to open suspect arms sites to U.N. inspectors. the administration clarified its strategy and said it did not need approval from Congress to hit Iraq. President Clinton noted new support from Canada and Australia, and Secretary of State Madeleine Albright told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that the Netherlands, Germany and Argentina backed force. And while Albright told the Senate Committee that Clinton had not decided to attack, the president said at the White llouse, "We must be prepared to act, and I am very grateful that others arc prnpared to stand with America." While thP administration contends it does not IJePd the approval of other countries, a new U.N. resolution or an act of Congress to punish Iraq, the hedged response around the world, particularly among Arab nations, is a sore point and also pot!1ntially encouraging to Saddam. 
111PM§#IMf&:WllleM 
AMEX:Dow 686.04 
+5.62 

]ONES 
Nasdaq: 1909.01 
+ 18.61


8~61 
NYSE: 529.96 +3.99 


S&P 500: Composite
I I 
1019.01 Volume: 
ru~u·,l~~ I B I!. I B "j 111-:!.:S!i[ 1 !di:S I'HIC!; 
NATl. ~F.D FJ:--;L. NMFSD 611.13 1.71K 2.00 AUH >CYTE I~C ACYT -19.96 1.9.i75 6.0625 INFOSAFE SYS-UTS IS FEU ~1.67 0.625 2.125 CULLIGAN ATER CUI. 38.91 2.0625 5~.00 BOSTOI'; BIOMEDICAL BBII 37.37 1.5125 7.~.!75 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 
RAYTf.L MEDICAL RTEL 26.82 3.2188 8.7813 GLOBE BUSINESS GLBF. 25.67 ~.8125 13.9375 ACCESS SOLUT·UTS ASICll 2.<.00 0.625 1.875 COMMODORE SEPARt\ CXOT 23.08 0.75 2.50 TEVA PIIARM·ADR TEVIY 20.32 9.5625 37.50 




Assembly approves 35-hour week 
AsSOCIATED PRESS 
PARIS 
France's National Assembly voted Tuesday to approve a 35-hour work week, but big business fears the shorter hours will destroy jobs instead of cre­ating them. 
The legislation to reduce the work week by four hours, proposed by the government to help slash the country's double-digit jobless rate, passed the assembly by a vote of 316­254. 
The bill now goes to the Senate before returning to the Assembly for final approval. If the legislation passes as expected, all employers would be required to implement the new work week by 2002. 
"We share the conviction that everything must be done to reduce the unem­ployment rate, and cutting the work week is a means among others," said Labor Minister Martine Aubry. 
But that sets alarm bells ringing among France's business community. It argues that a blanket 35­hour week "will have nega­tive consequences for busi­nesses and thus for employment," according to the National Association of Business Leaders (CNPF). 
The world's largest tire manufacturer, Michelin, has even threatened to move its business out of the country if it is forced to toe the line. 
"There have been very negative reactions from the business community saying it runs contrary to the rest of the world," Jean­Francais Mercier, European economist with Solomon Smith Barney, in London, told The Associated Press. 


Unemployment, France's most pressing problem, stands at 12.2 percent and shows few signs of falling significantly. Socialist Premier Lionel Jospin, who swept to office in June on a pledge to combat unem­ployment, says the bill will create jobs by spreading work around. 
In recent weeks, he has come under increasing pressure to deliver as hun­dreds of the unemployed held regular marches and sit-ins to demand more action. 
But the business commu­nity's criticism has also not been ignored -the legisla­tion approved Tuesday was considerably watered down to address business con­cerns. 
In one important conces­sion, lawmakers agreed to let employers calculate work hours over an entire year so workers would have longer or shorter weeks depending on fluctu­ations in business activity. 
Companies are also being offered tax breaks and other incentives if they meet the deadline for implementing the 35-hour work week. 
"The feeling in business is that the legislation is 
less of a potential problem than we initially feared as a result of the amend­ments," said Mercier. "The government has shown a fairly good dose of prag­matism." 
However, he predicted job creation was "unlikely" in the short term. 
The Bank of France said in a January report that 710,000 jobs could be cre­ated over the next three years. That outlook was echoed by the government­sponsored French Observatory of Economic Factors, which predicted 450,000 new jobs by the year 2000. 


page 6 ./ The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, February 11, 1998 
Studies 
continued from page 3 
of it late in the spring of 1997. 
As of last fall. the proposal for gender studies as a second major was approved. The pro­gram offered 36 courses last semester and currently offers 32 this semester. 
"I think being a gender stud­ies concentrator has had an influence ... by exploring the experiences of women unlike me, such as women of differ­ent races and classes," said Himelspaeh. 
Through the program's cross-disciplinary intellectual programming, which indudes critical issues roundtables, gender studies faculty forums, conference events and a lec­ture series, the University has honored. and will continue to honor, its women. 
In the tradition of honoring women and pioneering change, Saint Mary's College is no stranger to educating and empowering women. 
The College commits itself to its liberal arts education of developing self-awareness and knowledge through intellectu­al study and pursuit. The development of the female self is stressed through the College's women's studies program. 
The program is currently in its 12th year and strives to provide a structure in which materials by and about women can be examined in a concentrated way. According to its statement in its minor brochure, the women's studies program pushes the under­standing of the intellectual, social and cultural history of women, the understanding of new and old theories of gen­der, and the understanding of the institutionalized effects of gender. At the end of the 1996-97 academic year, 22 students had declared a minor or expressed an interest in becoming a women's studies minor. 
"I think one goal we have is to make our students con­scious of how gender has been socially constructed and the significance of that in their own lives with the ultimate goal of empowering them," said Laura Haigwood, coordi­nator of the women's studies program. 
The interdisciplinary pro­gram attracts faculty from diverse departments and ben­efits the women of the College by providing them a forum in which to discuss varying degrees of women's studies coupled with activities for all members of the community. 

The program currently offers 14 courses. 
"I think the department is too small and that there aren't enough courses offered, but the classes that I have taken so far were really rewarding and have helped me to grow as a woman," said junior Kelly Curtis. 
The program is continuing to grow with expanded inter­est and more attention and, like Notre Dame's gender studies, offers the women of Saint Mary's an arena to cele­brate and explore what it means to be a female in today's society. 
"Another goal is not just to create women's studies cours­es that are offered in the women's studies department, but to influence the entire curriculum at Saint Mary's toward the inclusion of women's contributions to cul­ture, women's achievements, and toward an overall better understanding of gender equality," said Haigwood. 
"We are not just promoting white, middle class women. A very important part of our curriculum is to promote a better understanding of racism, not just sexism. We must look critically at race and other forms of social exclusion as well." 

Roots 
continued from page 3 
young feminists of the 1960s are the weathered authorities of the present. 
The generation gap has brought about yet another split in definition. What femi­nism means in the future depends entirely on how young women feel about it now. 
A study done by Saint Mary's sociology professor Susan Alexander showed that college-age women arc not completely comfortable with the term feminist nor do they totally identify with it. 
The students did not feel compelled to seek feminist membership, nor did they feel a feminist identity would help in securing equality. 
Alexander says it is unclear "whether this is a result of a belief that women are already receiving their full rights or whether equality can only be achieved through an individual effort." 

WANTED: MARKETING ASSISTANT MANAGER "The Observer is looking for an Assistant Marketing Manager to help with coordinating the full color advertising spreads that appear regularly such as 'The Bar Page', 'The Map Page', etc. This is a PAID position and we are seeking Sophomore Business Majors. Contact Greg Szilier @4-1695 for more information." Deadline: Saturday, February 21 

A Benefit for the ~outh Bend Center for the NomeleM 

Individual -$6 fee* 
(Weight classes: under140, 141-150, 151·160, 161·170. 171· 185, 186·200, 201-215, 216&over) 
lnterhall T earn~ -$15 fee Women'~: lnterhall Team~-$30 fee* 
* fee Include~ 1-~hlrl. Weigh-In~ for all men will be between 1:00pm-6:00pm, on friday, february 13, 1998, In the Rockne ~emorial men·~ locker room. 


MR. STANFORD 1998. 
It's Like Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Meet Vladimir and Estragon. 

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13. STEPAN CENTER, 8:00P.M. 
$3.00 DONATION TO BENEFIT THE LOGAN CENTER 

Wednesday, February 11, 1998 
page 7 
BELFAST. NnT·th~crn 

Police and blamed the Irish Army and a d • .,.,.,..,.,.,., Tuesday· for suspected slaying a Pn>tel>taJatJnilit<U 
The killings put PtE\$$l)!r~m the British and Irish govern• ments to expel the IRA~allied''' Sinn Fein party from Northern Ireland's peace talks -and on the north's majot pro-British Protestant gang, the Ulster Defense< Association, to retaliate by slaying Catholics. 
On Tuesday afternoon;& lone gunman repeatedly shot Bobby Dougan as he waited it1 his car to pick up a friendi.il .. _, Dunmurry, in southwes,t ' Belfast. The 38-year-old reputed UDA member Wa$ wounded in an IRA · · · 1994. 
Police later arrested men in the nearby · district of Twinbrook 
Father wins custody of missing daughter 
Associated Press 
FAJARDO, Puerto Rico 
An Oregon man won custody of his 8-year-old daughter Tuesday, ending years of heartbreak that began when she disappeared from her par­ents' bed as a toddler. 
Jeffrey Anzaldi said he was "very happy" with High Court Judge Lilia Ortiz Puig's deci­sion, which allows Crystal Leann Anzaldi to return with him to his home in Banks, west of Portland. 
It wasn't immediately known when the child, who has been living in a Puerto Rico foster
•~'n'"""Ju 

home since last year, would be reunited with her father. 
Crystal's mother, Dorothy Anzaldi of Corning, Calif., had agreed earlier that the child should live with Jeffrey Anzaldi, from whom she is now divorced. 
Crystal disappeared from 
the couple's San Diego home in 1990, when she was a chubby, 14-month-old toddler. She was discovered in Puerto Rico last year when police investigated child abuse accu­sations against a woman mas­querading as her mother. 
The woman, Nilza Gierbolini 
-Guzman, has filed a separate petition in San Juan Superior Court for custody of the child, whom she called Sonia. But officials from Puerto Rico's 
Family  Department  said  
Tuesday  Gierbolini's  case  
wasn't likely to succeed.  
Gierbolini  has  not  been  

charged with the kidnapping, but she faces trial next month in Puerto Rico on charges of falsifying Crystal's birth cer­tificate. She has denied the child abuse claims. 
Crystal was briefly reunited with her parents and 10-year­old sister, Kendra, last month when they traveled to Puerto Rico for a paternity hearing. 
Anzaldi 's face brightened Tuesday when he recalled the girls' reunion. 
"They really hit it off," he said. "They act just like sis­ters, actually." 
The strain of the 1990 kid­napping broke up the Anzaldis' marriage. Anzaldi said that at the time he believed his wife was involved in the child's disappearance, but now says he does not believe that. 
During their investigation, police found her photo matched one of hundreds of missing children posted on the Internet. DNA tests later proved she was the daughter of Jeffrey and Dorothy Anzaldi. 





WEDNESDAY FEB 11TH LAFORT. BALLROOM SPM 
(,\{aternowski's ~-272-0970 v

BID FOR A DATE WITH A BOXER 
I 
STUDENT BODY ELECTIONS 
Attention All Students 






JOB HUNTING?
FREE PLAY STATION 
RUN-OFF ;• ELECTION: 
ALL INTERVIEWS TO BE HELD NEXT WEEK ARE POSTED 
Grand Prize Raffle!!! 
TODAY IN THE CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES OFFICE. CHECK NOW TO SEE IF YOU ARE SCHEDULED. 
IF YOU ARE NO LONGER INTERESTED, CROSS YOUR NAME OFF THE SCHEDULE. DO NOT TAKE AN INTERVIEW AWAY FROM ANOTHER STUDENT. 
NO-SHOWS HURT EVERYONE. 
IF YOU SIGN UP, SHOW UP. 







VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Wednesday, February 11, 1998 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Norrc Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Brad Prendergm 
M.maging Editor Business Manager 
Jamie Heisler Tom Roland 
Assistant Managing Editor 

[);m Cichalsk1 Sports Editor..... . ....... Mike Oay Advertising Manager ............................. Jed Peters News Editor .......... Hcarhcr Cocks Ad Design Manager...................Jennifer Breslow Vie-wpoint F.ditor ......................Kdly Brooks Production Manager ........................ Mark Ddloy Accent Editor......................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ....................... Lori Allen Controller. . .............................. Kyle Carlin Photo Editor . . ............ Ka.rie Kroener 
The Ob!ooerver i!'o rhe independent new!oopapcr published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and S.tinr Mary's College. It does nm necessarily renecr rhc policies ofthe administration ofeither 
institution. The new!"! i!i reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Ao;sistanr Managing Editor. News 
Ediror, Viewpoint E.Jitor, Spono; Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Phoro Editor, and Associate 
News Ediror. Commcnt.trie.\, Jeerers .md Inside Columm present the views of the authors, and nor neces­.'mrily rhose ofThe ObscrvC"r. Viewpoint space is available to all mC"mbcr!'l of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community :tnd to .til reader!!. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Ediwr-in-C:hief  631-4542  Business Oflicc  631-5.)13  
Managing Editor  631-4541  Advertising  631 -6900/8840  
Ncw~/Phoro  G31-5.H3  System'  6.)1-8839  
Spom  631-454.l  Oflice Manager  6.)1-7471  
Acccnr/Sainr Mary\  631 -4 540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Editor/Viewpoint  G_ll-530.\  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoim.l @nd.edu  
General lnformadon  6.11-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.cdu  


• Goo 'N' LIFE 
Cults Misdirect the Truth 
Those or us who have spent any lime in airports over the past two decades have probably seen a Hare Krishna or two dancing and ehanting. And those or us who follow the news 
Julie Ferraro 

on a regular basis have heard about the Branch Davidian tragedy a few years ago. Tlwre have been movies, docunwntaries. and college courses about cults. Public awareness, howev­er. does not stop the growth of these organizations. 
Less than a week before the highly­publicized "Heaven's Gate" suicides in 1997, five members of a doomsday cult died in a house fire in the province of QuPbec, Canada. Three teenagers-children of cult members -protested against the suicide pact and worn sparnd. 
This particular cult, called the "Order of the Solar T<•mple," is known to bn estahlishml in Switzerland and FrarH:e, as well as Canada. Mmnbers plaee gn~at stock in astronomical <wents. Tlwy bPiiPve that ritual suicide "leads to rebirth in a place called 'Sirius'." So thes<~ five peopln arranged 1dectric hot plates, propane tanks and fin~-start!~rs on the ground floor of their honw and perished in the blaze, as had (,1) of thnir fllllow cult members in 1994 and 1995. 
Ov<~r tlw yPars, society's attitude toward <:ults has swung from horror -as at tlw Jonestown disaster in 197R -to indiiTerenee. Unless people are harnwd by one of those groups, thnrn is no publicity, and little recourse for families wishing to free their loved ones from sueh influences. "Freedom of expression" or "freedom of religion" are used as excuses when concerned citizens beg authorities to take action. 
The reason for this concern is due to cult practices involving "brain­washing" to compel new members to adopt a certain set of beliefs and behave in a specific way. These meth­ods indude limiting sleep, starvation or unbalanced diets, and excessively strict discipline. None of this is healthy for mind, body or soul. 
A mind can only be healthy when it is able to process reliable information. I!caring only one side of the story stunts the brain's growth, as the body's growth is stunted by a poor diet. Feed the mind God's Word, how­ever, and growth continues. As old as time, the Bible tells the whole story­life and death, joy and sorrow -not some fabricated talc of a cult's founder. It gives the mind food for thought, and inspires growth of faith in the soul. 
The wisdom found in the Bible teaches us how to care for ourselves, our neighbors, and this world which God created. It opens a wide spectrum of possibilities to all people, excluding no one. It shows us how to love, to live, and to find the Truth, something lacking in cult praeticns. 
News articles recounting cult sui­eidns should be read with sadness, and a prayer oll'ered for those mis­guided souls. The next time you see llarn Krishnas at the airport, say a prayer for them, too. llopefully, one day they'll dance for joy at linding the real Truth. 
Julie Ferraro is a local administra­tive assistant. /ler column appears every other Wednesday. 
The 1•iews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

A Tribute to Justin BruiDbaugh 
When you lose a close friend. a million thoughts raee through your mind. On Sunday night, finding sleep elusive, I closed my eyes and thought of my friend Justin Brumbaugh. At first, the images were nightmarish -over and over I help­lessly watched an imaginary vision of his sudden collapse at COBA. For hours, I tormented myself, until I finally realized what a great injustice I was doing to my friend. Focusing on Justin's tragic and untimely death overlooks what is truly important about his life. , 
I first met Justin atthe end of Freshmen Orientation. He came into my room, along with his roommate Nick, and there I was. I was sure that these two sopho­mores had come to put me in my place. I'm sure I cringed a little as they crossed the threshold, because they really intimidated me. Convinced that they were about to unleash a torrent of abuse on me, I braced for the worst. Justin walked over to my CDs, looked, and grabbed one. "Primus!" he bellowed in only the way he could. I looked up from my seat, still uncertain as to his intent. I remember telling how it was my least favorite CD (which it was). He replied, "I know ... I've got it in my room." He started doing his little Primus shuffle and singing their hit in his terrible, atonal. booming voice, and I had to laugh. It may not have been much, but it helped me adjust to college life more than I can say. 
I spent Thanksgiving of my sophomore year at his house in Bolingbrook, Ill. He and his family were so kind that it felt as if I had lived there all of my life. We visit­ed his friends-rremember Knagge the crazy engineer and Alan -and he made it so easy for me to fit in. Even though it snowed, he demanded we all play basket­ball, and we did, and I was terrible. He rampaged around the basket with his RecSpecs on. and battled with Knagge for the rebounds of my missed shots, and wo all slipped on the snow. Afterwards, besides telling me I needed to practieo moro, he told me his Thanksgiving was now complete since he had played basketball. It was one of his passions in life. We ate turkey and watehed T.V. for the rest of the break, and I left feeling like I bolongod. 
Justin had a singular ability to put a smile on a sour face. The kid was a mastet· story teller. One day we were all telling him how great his stories were, and he asked ifwe had heard the one about his high school guidance counselor. Why don't you tell it to us? So he did. He had us all take a seat, and with good reason -his story took nearly an hour but by the end of it we were rolling with laughter. IIe was the most optimistic person, and I always went to him when I needed cheering 
up. 

I could write more. I could tell you about his great intelligence, or his devotion to social causes, or his deep spirituality. These are all part of the whole. But I think il is suflicient just to dest~ribe how much he enjoyed pnople. Justin Brumbaugh was the best person I knew at Notre Dame. This Sunday, I lost a friend who was like a brother to me and to many. That night, someone told me, ''I'm just glad that I got to know him while I could.~ Amen. 
May you rest in peace, Justin. 
Mark Fus.~a Junior, Knott Hall february I0, 1998 

• 000NESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• UUOTE OF THE DAY 





VIEWPOINT
Wednesday, February 11, 1998 page 9 
• WRONG SIDE UP 
The Trail Not Taken 
"lley, Margaret!" "Oh, hey, Father Sorin! I didn't hear you coming." "That's because I'm working on my entrances, 
Margaret. What are you doing?" ''I'm writing my next article for The Observer. Wannabe 
========~======;= in it?"
"Sure! What are you writing 

Margaret 
about?" "The stu­pid things 


Shaheen 
that other­wise good 

-----=======----people do." 
"Oh ... 

well. maybe I should just help you edit this one." "Suit yourself, Father." "What have you got so far, Margaret?" "Well, I thought I would start off describing my 
favorite otherwise good person." "Your dad. huh?" "Yep. I don't think I've ever told you this, Father, 
but my dad has a disorder clinically referred to as 
Trail I lead Locatus." "Trail Head Locatus? I haven't heard of it:" "It's a serious disorder whereby a man can look 
pnrfectly well. have explicitly written directions. three maps and a compass and still be unable to locate a trail head. We discovered the disorder a few years ago when my dad and I were attempting a short. weekend backpacking trip. We spent four hours looking for the trail head and couldn't find it. It was only when the needle of the gas gauge hit empty that my dad allowed us to turn around and head home." 
"What did your mom say about you coming home early?" 
"Well, we were afraid she might enjoy the story too much. so instead of telling her that we couldn't find the trail head. we told her that we had decided that we weren't really in the mood for freeze-dried Tcriyaki Turkey and had come home for some beer and pizza. Being a step ahead of the game, as usual, she said she had already placed the order." 
"Well. anyone can make a mistake once, Margaret. .Just because your dad couldn't find one trail head doesn't mean he has a disorder, does it?" 
"It happened again, Father." "Oh." "The second time was much worse. We were head­
ed for Thunder Lake in Rocky Mountain National 
Park and this time, we took my brother with us." "Uh-Oh." "Everything started off okay; we spotted Rocky 
Mountain, found the trail head and parked the truck. It seemed to be nothing less than a miracle. 'How's that. kids?' my dad asked, with a mixture of pride and relief. We told him he did a great job and laced up our boots. Then we all lined up at the outhouse and when our work there was done, we went back to the truck and got our packs. My dad and I adjusted our packs, until my brother began taking the Lord's name in vain, effectively implying that it was time to get going." 
"Well. this sounds good, so far, Margaret." 
"Yeah, Father. But it all fell apart when we reached the sign for the trail head. All three of us stood. with our boots laced up, our packs fully adjusted and our bladders completely empty, just staring at the sign. Without taking his eyes off the sign, 1ny brother asked, 'Hey, Margaret. Do you see Thunder Lake up there?' 'TJm ... uope. How 'bQUt you?' 'Well, now, can't say that I do.' " 
"You mean your trail wasn't listed on the trail head?" 
"That's right, Father. 'iet, my dad refused to believe that this should stop us from heading up the trail. 'C'mon, kids. What are you staring at? Let's go!' Thankfully, a ranger arrived at that moment and prevented my knuckle-head father from getting us lost in the wilderness. 'Hi. folks! Where you headed?' 'We're going up to Thunder Lake,' my dad announced and we all smiled. The old ranger's eyes, nearly popped out of his head. 'Tunder Lake?!' he exclaimed with a thick accent, 'Tunder Lake! ... Oh, you kidding me, right? Tunder Lake. Ha! This not Tunder Lake. You very funny.' We all chuckled at our fine joke, took ofl' our packs and got back into the truck -with another map ... So, what do you think, Father? Is that a good start for my article?" 
"You know, Margaret. I sure am glad you aren't putting me in this one." 
Margaret Shaheen is a sophomore Arts and Letters major at Notre Dame. Her column appears every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• THE MIGHTY OAK 



Cold Weather Creates Opportunity for Celebration 
Yesterday was a beautiful day, one of those lulling ing donations to the various charity coat drives. sunny bait-days that fools you into stepping out Thermostats in dol'ms could be lowered (by super-without your parka the following morning and natural means, from their constant 85 disease-foundering in deep snow. Why these days are pop-breeding degrees) as students became steeled to the ping up so frequently lately (global warming and El cold. Whining and complaining would become win-
Nino working in coalition?), I do =========~=====~ 
not know. But they are not spring and will probably go the way of the dodo soon, making s n the next ice storm all the more 
ea 
depressing. What exactly is the problem 

O'Connor 
with cold weather? In our case, it is not so much the danger of freezing, but the effects of cold 

on the aesthetics of our home, -----========----­
and so on our spirits. When ing and dancing. People would 
take to plunging naked into the frigid lakes, then running into steaming saunas built on the shore like beehives. Frostbite would become "rosy cheeks.'' 
The aurora borealis must be 
induced here by tapping into our influence with God or by using technology, maybe the particle 
accelerators or whatever theyhave in that radiation building 

there is sun or new snow, .----------------------,(which would be hidden in and especially both, every-a deep fir forest). These thing about this campus is northern lights would pretty. But when the snow complement the normal goes old and gets that orange glow of our winter sickly sheen on its crust, sky and invoke awe in the when piles of plowed ice students, and could be mixed with mud adorn the heightened during rendi­corners of the walks, tions of the alma mater. when road salt eats at the Then there is the matter very foundations of the of the name. First, the Dome and the sky is French must always be always gray, the whole used, L'Universite de place looks like a bleak Notre Dame du Lac. tundra slum. That is why I Maybe add du Grand Nord propose a new winter Blanc at the end for an image for the University, even more romantic something to complement effect. Everyone must also 
all the other new things , learn to speak French, but 
we have. \ the heavily accented 
Notre Dame should capi-French Canadian version, talize on a fault, the cold, so that we sound like we and create a romantic t\ \ Vtf ~ \ t ~ are up in the real North North Woods atmosphere. o+ Woods. And with the Ian-Start by planting many No-\-re. t:>a.'M.e. guage of love rolling off 
more pines and firs. We all know that the North Woods are evergreen. More evergreens would really soften up the archi­tecture of the bare maples and oaks. They would also cut the wind. Plant most of these trees in front of buildings built from the -­'50s onwards. 

Then, introduce various northern fauna to the campus, such as snowy owls, fishers, moose, maybe even wolves. Nothing would quicken the spirit like going down to St. Joe Lake on a brisk February morning for a jog and seeing a big bull moose in the shallows up to his chest, grazing on the sludge in that warm ,....--... spot by the power plant. ­And then a pack of white wolves breaks from the cover of the thickets and leaps onto his back, bringing him down as he bel­lows (wolves must be included to check the moose population). Wolverines already seemed at home last time they were spotted here. 
New buildings. would continue to be built pn all available land, but they would look like Swiss chalets, cross-timber affairs with low-sweeping eaves, heated with logs from the University's park­ing lot projects. Students would get up in the morn­ing and strap on the cross-country skies or snow shoes they have been issued and travel to class in 101 Zermatt or 252 Innsbruck. For students needing transportation, sleighs pulled by caribou would replace reckless golf carts. And for moral support, and so that no one froze along the way, St. Bernards with casks of schnapps around their necks must be set to wander campus. 
A great February ice festival called Swollen tonsil would complement spring's An Tostal. Students would slide down ramps through fantasy castles of ice built in the quads, shouting with mirth and good cheer. There would be ice cream and ice beer, and ice cubes to put in it. There would be icemen and ice princesses and an iceball fight between Zahm and Notre Dame, all in good fun. The fire department could spray water on the aging snow to make more ice, and on weekend nights, ice dancing on the lakes would replace SYRs. The infirmary would give strep throat medicine to everyone. 
All of this contact with ice would harden the constitutions of students, though, making them fiercer competitors in athletic contests and increas­everyone's tongues, who knows what would hap­pen? All this stuff about bad gender relations might finally be buried. 
And the nickname must also be modified, to the Pale Bunions or Baby Blue Oxen, or the Fighting Northern Irish. 
___ The advantages of this plan are enormous. Even 
---as ice was outwardly cele­brated, bonfires would be stoked in men's souls. The poor bedraggled people would be cheered to the dregs as they drifted about snowblind to dis­comfort or boredom. Optimism would become the currency of-campus; the EPA-fine-garnering smog of the power plant is the frosty breath of a giant yeti, Stepan Center 

is a great igloo, piles of snow in the C2 lot are the Alps. The smell of ethanol is the smell of beer. 
And there are not only insignificant benefits relat­ed to the happiness of the students, but real finan­cial benefits, as well. Perhaps the Winter Olympics could be attracted here, with the skiing events held in nearby Colorado. Millions of tourists hungry for merchandise emblazoned with the Olympic Rings iniertwined with the NO would be drawn to the sto­rybook alpine university of northern Indiana. Convert the basketball team to a bobsled team and capitalize on the idea of a bobsled team from flat country, just as Jamaica did their team from a warm country. Maybe hype up the fact that we are precar­iously perched on the north-south continental divide. 
Friends, do not sit with mouths watering over images of Florida schools baking in the southern sun. They will have skin cancer. We will have cheer­leaders dressed like elves and a football team that plays like Viking beserkers, blowing into those places like the gales out of the farthest north, raven­ous wolves howling in their wake, destroying every sort of slick-ass offense money can buy. Legendary beauty will roll from a campus alive with joy in the midnight sun. 
Sean O'Connor, Notre Dame '97, is a graduate stu­dent in English at Notre Dame. His column appears every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



;ACCENT
page 10 Wednesday, February II, 1998 


Notre Dame 


Stereotype Lik 
By JANEL KILEY bought iee (:ream, they were asked what dorm they were The Program of Liberal Studies majors am porhaps thn Accem Writer from, and a tally was kept. Allegedly, the men of Keenan, group most readily critidzml, as thnir distinctive attribut­Stanford and Zahm told the people at Bonnie Donn's they es contrast the traditional Notre Dame student. They are 
Year after year, students give new life to the stereo-were from Breen-Phillips each time they made a pur-a librmtl, free-thinking type whose grungn-like attin~ and types that supposedly charactorize Notre Dame. Whether chase. This gave B.P. an overwhelming victory, much to hairstyle makes them distinct from the usual mnsnrva­you live in a particular dorm. have a specific major, or the chagrin of the dorm. In an ironic twist, Easley adds tive preppie student. participate in a certain activity or sport, chances are you that although Breen Phillips is viewed as a dorm housing Even morn stereotypes exist outside of dorm and acad­havn bonn charaetnriznd by labnls that existed beforn people with an alleged fondness for food, it is the only ernie life. Groups induding the Ultimate Frisbee team arn many students began hero. dorm that does not have a food sales. easy targnts. The distinguishing aspects of a typical male 
These labels, perhaps best illustrated by the annual In addition to living in a particular residence hall, a Ultimate player include his long hair and obvious aver-Keenan Hevue, have become accepted and perpetuated person's academic interests also contribute to generaliz-sion to showering. The self-proclaimed "quad-urchins" throughout the years. The various performances at the ing. According to one stereotype, business majors have spend hours outdoors, simply playing Frisbee. Hevuc exaggerate the impressions many stu-Senior Ultimate player Andrew Pascale denl'i hold of their peers. While some people ~ N b believes this stereotype has some truth to it, agree with these stereotypes, and some even \-eC"e..o-Tuf \CO..\ o-\re.. ~'M.Q.. as "some people do personify it, some don't embody them, many people certainly criticize ..J ./11\ C4 \ e at all." But this label, like so many others, is them. Apparently many more find them I'' only a label and nothing morn. humorous. Varsity sports have also been stereotyped. 
Perhaps the fraternity/sorority atmosphere Lacrosse players in particular stand out as a found at Notre Dame makes it easy to gener-misfit clique. Many describn them as cocky alize and mock certain dorms. Men's dorms, """"' .. 1 guys whose East Coast attitude sets them in particular, criticize each other and gener-....,. ~ £(1~ \-\4\r apart from other groups. In year's past, the atn negative stereotypes. Zahm's dorm spirit Keenan Hevue depicted them as a makes it an easy target for labeling. This Neanderthal-type with a permanent attach­year's Kennan Hnvue mocked Zahm's mascu-ment to a lacrosse stick. Apparently, the line qualities, or more aptly, the lack thereof. c.~ • players' obsession with and fanatic dndica­Seantily-dad, make-up wearing men pranced D "en tion to the sport n~sults in a lack of normal across the stage, supposedly imitating the social skills. They communkat1~ with tcam­fi~minine attributes of many Zahm residents. mates only. Members of tlw t1~am. however, 
Femal1~ dorms also fall victim to exaggerat-f ~ T-.f\,~0 r+ disagree. ed sten~otypes. The infamous smokers of For the most part, these stereotypes are Farley IIall are a fixture in the Keenan Hevue. ~t <:\GIL largely exaggerated or at least partly untrue. Tlwir aff"inity for nicotine leads many to When asked if they know how these labels believe that if you live in Farley, you must originated, or why they continue, thn individ­smokn. This daim may have some basis of A tr • e uals whom these stereotypes charactnrize truth, but for the most part it is largely exag-'ae.rc. roM. to it. ,..... 'IIIII f say it is their humor that makes them popu­gerated. Sophomore Charlotte Kelly believes ~ ~ lar. the smoking habib of Farley girls are not any v~' rt £ Tim Hosa and Hich Janor, the 1:oordinators worse than those of other dorms. of this year's Keenan Hevue, believe most 
"The fi1w girls who smoke give the impres-people don't know where the stereotypes sion that a lot of people in Farley do," she come from. "There isn't much basis for said. "It's just morp, prevalent because we're them," Hosa admits. "Farley girls don't next to the dining hall. where everyone walks '-------------------------------__~ smoke much more than anyone else, and 
by." B.P. girls aren't overweight ... these !labels) 
The supposed difficulty that the women of Breen-the least demanding academic schedule and the most were here before we got here." Janor agrees that the Phillips have with weight gain earned them the reputa-demanding social agenda. Group projects represent their claims made in the Hevue aren't necessarily based on tion as some of the heavier people on campus. This char-only obligation, which contributes to a relaxed atmos-fact, and the reason the stereotypes carry over year after acterization, like many others, is met with criticism by phere and free time to frequent the area bars. year is because people enjoy them. those whom it involves. Gentry Easley, a B.P. sophomore, In contrast, engineers spend most of their day hidden As a result, students continue traditional stereotypes. says the label " is blown out of proportion." This stereo-away in the engineering building working behind a com-With the advent of new dorms, student groups, and type, like many others, originated before any of the cur-puter. As a result, their social skills suffer. sports teams, we arc likely to create new ones. These, rent studenl'> began at Notre Dame. This one. however, Those in Arts and Letters, like students in the business like those of the past, will be accepted, criticized and per-has an interesting explanation. school, supposedly have a less than challenging workload petuated by some. 
A few years ago, Bonnie Donn's held a contest to see and often join the ranks of the unemployed after gradua-But laughed at by many. which dorm ate the most icc cream. Whenever a student tion . 
• WEDNESDAY NIGHT TELEVISION 
By ARWEN DICKEY he can see that Charlie is OK, but gives priority to Charlie, and Griffin in a better mood, and lets Owen Wednesday Nighr Corespondent Charlie won't see him. Charlie tells gets mad. come visit him. Charlie deeides that Julia that he is not OK, and he Bailey is having trouble going to planning for the worst is a good 
Last week on "the young and delin­doesn't want anyone coming in his class with all his responsibilities like thing. quent," Griffin soils his motorcycle room to cheer him up because he running the restaurant, visiting And now for the juvenile delin­shop. The only one interested in buy­just wants to sleep. Julia is really Charlie and taking care of Owen. quent, Claudia. She is totally froaked ing is the owner of the competitor's worried about Charlie because he is Annie offers to help Bailey by typing out by Charlie's sickness and her shop, (Hightower from the Poliee obviously depressed. his paper for school. Bailey's teacher crazy home life. She gets an F on a Academy movies), which ran Griffin Kirstin yells at Paul for being yells at him and tells him he is on paper, and Charlie doesn't eVtln out of business. GrifTin freaks out insensitive because all he wants to probation. Bailey yells back and tells notice. When Kirstin points it out, 
to go to the hospital. Charlie winds do is go on vacation. Kirstin says his teacher all the things he needs to The principal from Claudia's school up having pneumonia and is she can't leave because she knows do. leaves a message on the machine extromely sick. Paul and Kirstin what depression is and how scary Bailey decides he is tired of trying about Claudia missing school, but were supposed to take a trip, but depression is. You might say that to handle everything and wants to Claudia erasos the messago. Kirstin decides to cam~el the trip to Kirstin had a little depression prob­quit school. Julia tells Bailey not to TONIGHT: The girl at the bike shop be with Charlio. Paul is not happy. lem herself. Kirstin also tells Paul quit school and that he should at kisses Griffin. Bailey and Julia find The doctor decides to change that her feelings J<w Charlie have not least wait until Charlle is out or the out that Claudia has not bBtHl in Charlie's radiation schedule, since disappeared. She doesn't know how hospital and things get baek to being school. Tho Child Protective Services radiation could be too risky with to describe it, but she loves Charlie a little bit more normal. Julia even come and take Claudia and Owen Charlie's weakened condition. As a enough that she can't leave him and offers to go to school for Bailey and away and may give them to someone result, Charlie will need more radia­go on vacation. take notes. Bailey says he is detinite­else. Charlie names Kirstin as thu tion instead of it being over in a Charlie also makes Bailey leave ly quitting school. Bailey feels bad benefactor of his will and Julia and week like it was supposed to be. him alone. Bailey and Julia decide when Annie hands him his typed Bailey get upset that he didn't pick 
Julia takes Owen to the hospital so to take shirts at the hospital. Julia paper. Charlie gets a lot better and is them. 



While many in the community came out of the sit­uation with a sense of empowerment and resolve, some felt that the problems were only beginning. 
ACCENT

Wednesday, February 11, 1998 
ACh~pion 
By MICHELLE S. PRIMEAU about us," we're told. This is a sort of "hear no Accent Writer evil" kind of approach since just about everyone .:...:.::.::=:.:'---'-'--:..:..:..:c'---------------------can recall an incident of SMC bashing. 
Imagine if you will. it is late August. The sun is "During my orientation week I was in a bathroom actually shining in South Bend. The air is filled at ND when I overheard one woman tell another to with electricity and ethanol. The temperature, 'watch out for those SMiC Chicks, they'll steal our although warm, is not phasing the swarms of new guys,"' recalled sophomore Kim Langlois. "There studnnts piling onto the Saint Mary's campus for was nothing I could really do about it, except know orinntation. They can't wait to get rid of their par­that it isn't true and make sure that my friends at ents. rearrange their room, go to their first football both schools know." game, and find out why their orientation counselor This popular method of passive resistance was told them to bring a white t-shirt. Life is good. challenged by the printing of what has come to be 
One of those students, Suzy Smith we'll call her. is like most of the other women there. She worked hard in high school to get a scholarship, she wants to go to grad school, and she is looking forward to hnr first year of college. Little does Suzy know, she's lazy. 
Sho's only at Saint Mary's because she couldn't get into Notre Dame. The only degree she wants is her Mrs. She's a slut. She's a parasite. 
This is the harsh realization that Suzy and dose to 400 other women come to in their first weok at Saint Mary's. Not that they really are any of these things, but those arc some of the stereotypes placed on Saint Mary's women. Some students are "warned" while visiting as a prospective, or from family or friends who are alumnae. but for most, the first encounters with generalizations are within the first few weeks of the semes­ter. 
"I was really surprised when I first heard about Saint Mary's women and Notre Dame women having a sort of feud between them. I never thought about it," said freshman Nikki Gonzales. "It was really upsetting to hear that just because I go to Saint Mary's, I supposedly don't work as hard. It just isn't true." 
Where the storeotypes originated from is always a great debate. Many dime-store philosophers feel that the failed merger between the two schools and the beginning of co-education at Notre Dame in the early '70s were two of the events that triggered animosity. 
Since then, the stereotypes have manifested in many forms, from simple rumors to elaborate char­acterizations in the Keenan Revue. 
Many students are advised by orientation coun­selors to ignore it. "Nobody really thinks that way 
"A few weeks after the letter, I was going to a party with some friends. A few of them were wear­ing Saint Mary's t-shirts," Gonzales said. "As we were walking across North Quad we passed anoth­er group of women. 
When they saw my friends' shirts, we heard them say, "Boy, I'm glad I didn't go to Saint Mary's." It didn't ruin our night but it certainly didn't make us happy." 
Some responses to the Syner-Fuller 
letter expressed the concern that 
many were taking the whole thing too seriously. This concern has become 
-
apparent once again, following last month's performances of the Keenan Revue. 
"The difference between the Revue and what happened in September is that the Revue is only seen by mem­bers of the Saint Mary's/Notre Dame/Holy Cross community, com­ments made in The Observer or WVFI are seen and heard by many outside of the campus," junior Niki Pascua said. "It gives a bad image to both schools." 
Some Saint Mary's students feel that there are stereotypes held within their own community that need to be handled before Notre Dame relations are addressed. 
"I have a professor who continually tells our class that we are a bunch of spoiled little rich girls that can't pos­sibly understand the problems of eco­nomic classes below us," ·said a fresh­man who asked to remain unidenti­fied. "I, and almost all of my friends, ­


known as "The Letter," written by Pasquerilla East sophomores Catherine Syner and Stacey Fuller in the Sept. 15 edition of The Observer. It prompted many letters of rebuttal from Saint Mary's and Notre Dame alike, and "Saint Mary's Pride" activi­ties. 
"It brought out into the open a lot of stereotypes that were directed at both schools, and I was proud of the way Saint Mary's women handled the situa­tion," said Renee Kingcaid, professor of modern languages at Saint Mary's. "It proved the strength of our community." 
are working, on financial aid, or on scholarship. 
Ideas like this need to change before we even begin to worry about what Notre Dame students think." 
Many cynics believe that if the stereotypes didn't exist, there would be something else for the two schools to argue about -possibly the deed to Bridget's. As for Suzy Smith, she couldn't be reached for comment. She was out shopping for a wedding dress. Or was she flunking a test? Or was she just randomly hooking up? 
Exactly. 
• WEDNESDAY NIGHT TELEVISION 
By ARWEN DICKEY 
grandparents. So the gpandmoth-angry, and says that she got the Wednesday Night Correspondent eris now Sic.¥ ard i~J .· 9spitab record ~~I.!CUtive to come and hear Donna and Noah go to er; .and the song that he had written for 
Last week on 90210, Brandon she tells Donna that avid was her. eomes into Kelly's work, and she meant for her. Of course, Noah is David finally tells Valerie that asks him to leave. A former a bit upsetabout this. but amaz-the song was not written for her, inmate named Andy shows up at ingly suppqrt~'ll~ tll. .()nt the but ratl1er for Donna, and she gets. the clink next, having been beaten ordeal. When Davl isits th.e angryidl over again. while he was in jail for murder. grandmother on a separate occa~ Valerie tells David not to go to Kelly goes to the Beverly Beat to sion, she tells him to take care of Donna's grandmother's funeral, see Brandon after, and asks him to Donna. The gran~ er thE)p. and asks who he likes better. He write a story on Andy, who can't dies from corpplicatio . . . urgery; repHeslhat he has known Donna get a second chance in the real and Donna goes to Da .id for com~ for lon:ger, that they grew up world. fort. · · · together and lived together, and he 
Brandon, in a cheezy, shiny how she had felt. In a After the ftfneral, {)avid stays .was going to the funeral whether brown leather jacket, talks to Andy Kierkegaard moment, he says that longt')r to be \o\'ith D(l,(lill;t!; }Ie give$ .... Val liked it or not. David's band about the murder of his mom's it would be a ''leap of faith" to take her a locket with pict!,fres of. the···· then. gets a record contract. boyfriend. Andy gets upset when him back again. grandparents (remember what Valerie gives David a cactus. In an Brandon runs an interview with In the stupid side story, Steve they looked like from the flash, analogy of herself, Valerie says the son of the man he murdered hits on a girl from the Peach Pit, back), which be has gotten from that the ,cactus is prickly to protect along with the featurH. (an old cast member from Charles her grandmother. p.ofl.I).a. and itself, but."when it blooms once a 
Relating to Brandon, Andy says in Charge), and getsinvited to the David kiss, but then decide to year it is really beautiful, even if that you have to live with the house she shares with her ''girl­remain friends. · you can't stand it the rest of the things you do wrong, because the friend," doubling with Brandon. In David is tired of living out of a time." peoplP you hurt have to live with the end, it turns out that the girls suitcase with Valeri.,U so Steye that as well. Andy thanks Kelly for thought Steve and Brandon were a offers early'$ hou DaVid reaching out to him, and Jeff tells gay couple like they were. because there are s 11 a few TONIGHT: Valerie goes to the Kelly that he thinks she is stronger Noah and Donna are looking at months left on the lease. This news doctor because she may have been than she knows. Because of the old pictures of Donna when Mr. makes Valerie have a.tantrum and slipped the date rape drug. She 
. ·.

story, Andy winds up getting a job Martin shows up to tell Donna that walk off. ... passed out after only one drink at the paper. her grandmother is sick. This is Speaking 9f Valerie,>she gets her and woke up naked. Kelly and Jeff 
Kelly hears Brandon on the the same grandmother that Donna job back at the After Dark because may sleep together. Brandon phone: telling his mother that he and David went to visit in a previ­David helped out Noah. leaves Kelly a message that he misses Kelly. Brandon tells Kelly ous episode. In a flashback, the Valerie then gets a record execu­wishes she was having a good time that he wants to take responsibili­grandmother was telling of how tive to come and seeJasper's Law, with hiJ:n. To Valerie and Noah'.s ty, and that he was too wrapped she and the grandfather met, using (David's band) at the club. Valerie disgust, Donna and David show up up in what he had done to consider Donna and David to play the two apologizes to David for getting at the After Dark together. 
.._ 
,--~--~--­

Wednesday, February II, I998 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 

Syracuse atop Big East 7 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 

Syracuse was again at its best on the road Tuesday night. beating the Miami Hurricanes 72-63 to take over first place in the Big East 7. 
The 23rd-ranked Orangemen ( 18-5) improvPd to 8-4 in the league, while Miami (15-6) fell inlo second place at 8­5. 
Syracuse bounced back from an 85-61 horne loss Saturday to Seton Hall and improved to (,-1 in the conference on the road. 
Miami lost at home for the first time in six league games. 
Jason llart scored 19 points and Hyan BlackwPII had 17 for Syracuse, while Todd Burgan added 13. The Orangemen shot 4 7 percent. including (J-for-12 from 3-point range.
-Tim Janws led Miami with 24 points and 12 rebounds. Mario Bland had 19 points and 11 reboOnds, and Steve Frazier added 13 points. Suspended Miami starter Johnny llemsley missed his fourth consecutive game for violating a team rule. The Hurricanes were also without starter Lucas Barnes, who has dropped out of school after sitting out three games because of a suspension. Blackwell and Marius Janulis hit con­secutive 3-pointers and Hart added a three-point play to help the Orangemen build a 25-12 lead. They were ahead 38-27 at halftime. Burgan hit two free throws and a field goal to givo Syracuse its biggest lead, 60-45. SyracusP missed s1wen l"ree throws over the final three minutes, and 
Bland's basket cut the margin to 67-61 with 1:20 to go. But Etan Thomas made two free throws, and Burgan added two in the last minute. 
Miami committed 17 turnovers against the Orangemen's 2-3 zone, ineluding four in a row during one stretch in the first half. 
Purdue 95, Indiana 89 
WEST LAFAYETTE. Ind. 
No team has had as much success against Indiana in recent years as Purdue. Now no coach has ever had as many victories against Bob Knight as Gene Keady. 
Chad Austin and Brad Miller each scored 23 points Tuesday night as the eighth-ranked Boilermakers overcame a 10-point deficit in the first half and held off a late rally to beat Indiana 94­89. 
It was Purdue's fifth victory in the past six games against the Hoosiers and a record 18th victory for Keady against Knight. 
Former Michigan State coach Jud Heathcote beat Knight's Hoosiers 17 times. 
The Boilermakers (21-4, 9-2 Big Ten) took advantage of 16 first-half Indiana turnovers to take a four-point lead at halftime and pulled away to a 13.-point lead midway through the second half. 
Indiana (16-7, 7-4) rallied behind Andrae Patterson, who had 21 of his season-high 27 points in the second half, and the Hoosiers tied the game 7 4­74 on a basket by A.J. Guyton. 
Austin then hit two straight baskets to put Purdue ahead for good. 
The Observer/John Daily 

Jason Hart poured in 19 for the Orangemen en route to a 72-63 victory over the Hurricanes. 
Indiana, which beat Purdue 94-88 in game, hit its first four shots -three of Bloomington last month, trailed 81-80 them 3-pointers by Mid1ael Lewis, after two free throws by Patterson with Guyton and Luke Hecker -and took a 
3:33 to go. 20-10 lead on Guyton's sneond 3-point­
But Austin hit a 3-pointer and Miller er. added two free throws for a six-point But the Hoosiers' shooting cooled, and lead. The Hoosiers came within 92-89 repeated turnovers -24 for the garm~ on a·3-pointer by Guyton with 13 sec­to just 12 for Purdue -began to turn onds to go and had a chance to tie after the momentum. The only Indiana points Guyton stole the ball. Rob Turner during one four-minutl~ stretch in the missnd a 3-point attempt, however, and first half were on two free throws by Miller rebounded and was fouled. hit­Lewis after a technical foul on Keady. ting the final free throws with five sec­Austin, Cardinal and Alan Eldridge onds left. each hit two l"rne throws in a 26-seeond 
Brian Cardinal added 16 points for span to give Purdue its biggest lead of Purdue. Jaraan Cornell, who had 27 the half, 3 7-29, and the Boilermakers points in the first game against Indiana, led 41-37 at halftime despite shooting left with a badly sprained ankle after only 35 percent. just three minutes. Purdue, whieh shot 39 percent for the 
Guyton finished with 18 points for the game, took its biggest lead at (,5-52 Hoosiers. after a 12-2 run. Austin had six points Indiana, which shot 56 percent for the during that streak. 
•NBA

-
Heat win fourth straight with victory over Cavaliers 
Alonzo Mourning an extra shove Cleveland, gave the He1it a four­Boos and cheers rang from Vernon Maxwell, playing on a out of bounds after Mourning game winning streak, tying their the crowd as Mason, a popular 10-day contract, Jed Charlotte CLEVElAND drove to the basket with 6:21 longest of the season. The Cavs ex-Knick who grew up in New with 22 points and David Wesley 
Jamal Mashburn scored 21 .left in the game. Mourning have lost three in a row for the York, was introduced before the added 13. Glen Hice had 12 point<> and the Miami Heat shut laughed it off and hit two free frrst time this season. game. He -along with several points -more than 10 below down rookie star Zydrunus throws to make it 81-65. teammates -went on to have a his average -and shot 3-for-13 Ilgauskas to beat the Cleveland Mourning also had a key bas­New York 99 mediocre night in losing to New against the Knieks for the third Cavaliers 91-81 Tuesday night. ke~ during a decisive 10-2 run in Charlotte 91 York for the third time this sea­time this season. 
Ilgauskus, coming otT an MVP the third quarter, taking a feed son. Mason, who had 12 points, performance in the NBA All-Star from Mashburn for an easy stuff NEW YORK John Starks scored 26 points, nine rebounds and five assists, Hookie game, was IH~ld to eight to make it 59-41 following a Anthony Mason reeeived a including 16 in the fourth quar­had two of his shots bloekrd by points on 3-for-12 shooting from Shawn Kemp turnover. mi.xed greeting in his first game ter, and Allan llouston added 21 39-year-old Knicks center llerb Hm field. lie scored 23 points in Kemp was held to l4 points, since being arrested for statuto­for the Knicks. Charles Oakley · Williams. who was pressed into Cleveland's 94-93· win over the while Mourning had 16. ry rape as his Charlotte Hornet<> had12 points, 15 rebounds and service bocausc of injuries to Heat on Jan. 26. The victory, Miami's seventh lost 99~91 to the New York eight assists, just missing his Larry Johnson (sore ankle) and 
A frustrated Ilgauskus gave in its last eight games against Knicks on Tuesday night. first triple-double since 1987. Buck Williams (sore knee). 
The Observer accepts classifleds every business day !rom 8 a.m. w 3 p.m. at the Not~e Dame ot11ce, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline lor next-day clas­
sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifleds for content without issuing refunds. 
Classifieds 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR The event of the year will be featur­Looking for a unique gift for your top 15 from MIAMI GYNMASTICS JPW AND OTHER ND-SMC ing the worst of Michiana's music valentine? MEET
NOTICES 

ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT EVENTS. scene!! Bring in your favorite pictures and 10 If it were lhe 80s and perms 
· Fishing industry. Excellent earn­VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5 It's UMPHREY'S McGEE at we'll create a custom color calendar were still big, I'd want to be a chick 000 THE COPY SHOP 0¢0 ings & benefits potential. MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK. XTREAMZ tor your sweetie. Same day turn­9 How many pancakes can you eat LaFortune Student Center Male/Female. No experience nec­243-0658. TONITE! around. Any twelve month combi­8 She's slow 7 Did you say " I miss 
WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE, essary. Ask us how! 517-324-3116 nation. the days when I was being ,..?" 6 
AND WEEKENDS!!! ext. A55841 ROOM $128+util Share house w/ "They are simply poor. Their lack of 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 Oh my god, Tom is hooking up! Mon -Thur 7:30am · Midnight grad stu Good neighborhd 280-musicianship shines through in LaFortune Student Center (applause) 5 He should he is good Fri 7:30am -7:00pm 5274 nearly everything they do." at it -Erin about Tom 4 I'm so glad Sat Noon -6:00pm NATIONAL PARK EMPLOYMENT­-Matthew Curtis, Spin thanks to the inside link, jonny has to see sunshine in the morning but I Sun Noon -Midnight Discover huw to work in America's ALL SIZE HOMES new insight into his problems want to go back to bed 3 With well­
CALL 631-COPY Parks. Forests & Wildlife Preserves. CLOSE TO CAMPUS "Worst live show since Winger in older sisters rule, especaily when endowed women. be in a porn­Competitive wages + bonuses! 232-2595 '88. I suggest bringing stuff to the younger sister's don't know Jason 2 Let's see if she can finish Seasonal/year-round. For informa­throw at them." about it. lhat in 2 min 1 My worm is so much
ILOST & FOUND I 

tion. call: 517-324-3111 Ext. 98'-99' yr. 6 bedrm. 2-car gar. -Ryann Bevilacqua, GQ bigger than Amber's! 
N55842 sand V-ball ct. washer/dryer. Hey-did you know,.. 'REWARD' for return of lhin gold 1628 Portage Av. 234-3831 "Surprisingly awful and tasteless. Why is it that the Progressive wedding ring lost in Rockne weight Tutor needed to work with high 273-0482 There's nothing in the world like We're open early, late, and week­Student Alliance. an unrecognized room. Please call Peter @282-school student preparing forGED. music that makes you puke." ends for your convenience! campus group, gets to use campus 2449. Areas to review are govt, algebra, ATIENTION JUNIORS AND PAR­-Robert Lud, Rolling Stone 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 facilities? Wasn't this the same 
geometry, & writing. Prefer tutor to ENTS LaFortune Student Center "excuse" used to kick GLND/SMC come to house. but student can DUE TO CANCELLATION THE Attention All Off-Campus Juniors Phone 631-COPY out of university facilities??? 
WANTED 

drive to tutor. Call 272-8235. ORCHARD COTIAGE IS AVAIL­and Seniors Attending JPW '98 ABLE FOR JUNIOR PARENTS You are invited to a luncheon at 5 rides needed home to Maryland WEEKEND. Alumni Senior Club on Saturday, SABOR LATINO Because the Progressive Student 
FOR RENT

Spr. Break. If you can provide any 15 MIN. FROM CAMPUS February 21, 1998 from 12:30 to Alliance is in the process of obtain­or all call Sarah x4003 1LR 1BDR 1BATH SM.KITCHEN. 2:00pm, Bring your parents and Friday 2 /13 esc ing recognition. The University has 
EARLY WITH THE SOFA BED THERE IS enjoy lunch with your friends! 9pm-11pm not said yet that the group can't 
CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT House For Rent ROOM FOR4. meet, which it HAS done about 
CENTER Two Blocks From Campus CONTINENTAL BRFST. VALENTINE CLASSIFIEDS­Wed. 2/18 Club Landing GLND/SMC.
.·-The Early Childhood Development 4-5 Bedroom. Dishwasher, IN BUSINESS 7 YRS. $85/NIGHT VALENTINE CLASSIFIEDS 9 pm-1 am Center at Notre Dame. located at Washer/Dryer. Large Backyard and CALL 2883923 DON'T FORGET ABOUT A 18680 Bulla Road. is currently Off Street Parking. VALENTINE CLASSIFIED FOR Coming soon: the second CD ! This is the commander. accepting applications from college June 98 for Summer, August for BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY YOUR SWEETIE. These classifieds have been students for part time positions. The Fall. FREE MONITORED SECURI­219-291-7153 SABOR LATINO checked by the Minister of Piety. hours vary, including 7:30 -9:00 TY SYSTEM! Pass counterfeit $ = YOU break the Minor deletions today; some people a,m, MTWThF and Call289-4712 law. were pushing the limits, Keep it 
PERSONAL

11:15 a.m.-1:05 p.m. TIH. If you Forge a check =YOU break the ADOPTION: Happy, caring profes­clean, folks. Okay, let's continue,. are interested in applying, please law. sional couple would love to provide contact Thayer Kramer. Program ROOM $128+util Share house w/ LET'S GET WET! IRISH CON­Use a fake drivers license = BAR a new born with love. joy and secu­AB -Even if there was no DO, you Director. at 631·3344 for more infor­grad stu Good neighborhd 280-NECTION, FESTIVITIES BEGIN @ breaks the law? rity. Call Ed and Ellen at 1-800-484-know that I would still love you! mation and an application. 5274 10 PM Go Figure! 7011 PIN114523 How did the "happen"? 
. ------------~­

Wednesday, February 11, 1998 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 

RecSports "Champion Student Award" recipients are selected by the Office of Recreational Sports. Honorees are chosen for their involvement in RecSports, including excellence in sportsmanship, leadership and participation. 
Bob Steinmetz, a junior living in Zahm Hall, hails from Oak Lawn, IL. Bob has been an active participant in RecSports events since his arrival on campus. For two years he has served as Captain for both Zahm's IH Baseball and Softball teams, not to mention playing on Zahm's IH Football and Basketball teams. When Bob is not serving as a team member, he is busy organizing all of Zahm's teams while serving as its Athletic Commissioner. This past January, Bob also served as his hall's Late Night Olympic Hall Representative . Upon finishing his degree in Biological Sciences, Bob plans on attending Medical School. 
Recipients receive ~~ merchandise from the 
..-..& 
VARSITY SHOP 
...... 
"Specializing in Authentic 
Notre Dame Sportswear" 
(Joyce Center) 

"Specializing in Authentic 
Catalog Warehouse Sale 25%-60% OFF all Merchandise 
Fri., 2-1 3-98-Mon., 2-1 6-98 
Notre Dame Catalog Center 1602 North Ironwood Dr. 
-

Look for this award to appear in the Observer every other Wednesday. Students selected receive ~~ 
11'~~.;.~~ a • .._
merchandise courtesy of \,&...-.. __.....,-....... and the vii;r'io; located on the second floor of the Joyce Center. The 

aa.a
vi?io; 

is open Monday-Saturday 11 :OOam to 5:00pm and Sunday 1:OOpm to 4:00pm. (Phone: 631-8560). 
_j 
' I I ! , 
~----~-­
page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, February ll, 1998 
• NFL 

Gailey could be darkhorse pick to take over Cowboys 
Associarcd Press 

IRVING, Texas 
Pittsburgh offensive coordina­tor Chan Gailey set a new t·ecord for interview time with Jerry Jones Tuesday, under­scoring how impressed the Dallas Cowboys owner has been with this longshot candi­date to succeed Barry Switzer. 
"lie's not a household name but he's shown he knows how to move the football," said Jones, who not only needs a head coach but an offensive coordinator to replace Ernie Zampese. 
Negotiations with former UCLA coach Terry Donahue broke down over money and control and Gailey emerged at the NFL combine in Indianapolis as Jones' "mys­tery" candidate. 
After an overnight stay at the Jones mansion, Gailey got a fourth interview on Tuesday, one more than Donahue and Green Bay Packer offensive coordinator Sherman Lewis, and two more than former San Francisco coach George Seifert. 
Jones wouldn't set a timetable on day 32 of his wan­dering search for a coach but hinted something could happen this week. The last time he set a deadline for a hire, Donahue abruptly went back to California. 
Pittsburgh was sixth in the NFL in offense last year while the Cowboys were 27th. The Steelers were No. 23 in pass offense but tops in rushing and time of possession. 
While Lewis was the coordi­nator at Green Bay, he didn't eall plays. Donahue has spent the last two years in a CBS tele­vision booth. Seifert has been out of the NFL a year and was a defensive coordinator before becoming a head coach. 
Gailey f1ew buck with Jones 


FLORALCO. Inc. Remember Yo~r Sweetheart on Valentme's Day!  
___. ~  _  327 Lincolnway West, South Bend 232-3354  
Mary B. Green 


Come in and Browse 
' 

Open daily 8:00 a.m. to 6:00p.m. Sundays 9:00a.m. ·to 12:00 Noon Serving Notre Dame and St. Mary's 
South Bend, Mishawaka & Granger for over 60 years 
very good eandidatP." 
Gailey, who called the plays last year under Cowher, has expericncn serving as a head coach for Birmingham in the World Lnague and Troy State at the collegiate level. 

African American & Hispanic Students 
Summer Leadership Internships available: 
Stop by the Office for Multicultural Student Affairs or the Center for Social Concerns for an application. 
Application Deadline: February 13th (Friday) 
Opporhmities available in: South Bend (both) Chicago (both) (Detroit) (African American) San Diego (Hispanic) Lexington (Hispanic) 
• 
Ten weeks of leadership and service work sponsored by the Black Alumni and Hispanic Alumni of Notre Dame. 

• 
Academic work and experience earning 3 elective credits in Theology. 



SOCIAL

• $2300.00 Tuition Scholarship 
CONCERNS 

from the NFL scouting combine in Indianapolis Monday night in the Cowboys' private jet. 
A Cowboys source said Tuesday Gailey has impressed Jones in the short time he has been with him. The source said Gailey was a "hot" candidate, the kind who could be heavily courted as a head coach by other teams in several more years. 
Pittsburgh coach Bill Cowher said of Gailey: "I think he is a Wednesday, February II, I998 
*120 Countries Haves· -ed the Ban onL . es, but the . _­campaign cannot end:~ . , ~ -­_... *There are sill 100 milh\landmines in over countries. *At the current rate, it wo~~ 'S to cle rid oflandmines and that iY only ifno more mines ar~planted. ,..T *At least every 20 #NUIIMJI~ killed or maimed by ai~rdM,...~ * 284 internationalpeace keepers ................ killed or wounded by landmines in Bosnia. *The United States still refuses to Do you fm.d such suffering incomnun,f!nJ;m ? Do you wiYh to provide aid and assiYtance to landmine victims? Notre Dame Campaign to Ban Landmines may be for you. Please join anizational meeting on Sunday February 15 at 7:30 at the Center for Social Concerns Coffee House. Refreshments will be served!  

M. Hoops 
continued from page 20 
Unfortunately for the Irish with their top two leading scor­ers in Big East games either on the bench or not on top of his game, no one has been able to step up on a consistent basis. 
Center Phil Hickey notched a career high in the loss to Hutgers but was held in check Saturday. Guards Antonio Wyche and Ingelsby have not been able to catch lire from the outside. 
"Now some of the pressure 
has been put on us [lngelsby and Wyche] and we have to step up," Ingelsby said. "We really didn't do that this weekend and Coach has emphasized that we need to take more shots." 
Tonight, the Irish will need to perform on the perimeter as they expect to see zone defense from the Eagles. MacLeod will have a bigger bench tonight as freshman Leviticus Williamson, who did not dress against Georgetown, practiced yester­day and is listed as probable. 
"They are going to come out and play a lot of zone against us," Ingelsby said. "We haven't been really effective against the 
Notice the Double Slice Pizza below? If so, you've got an overly active imagination. 
In other words, you're destined for a great advertising career. While you're still a student, come try our Pizza or Pasta for under S4. Class dismissed. 
52770 US Route 33N, 277-4008, Soutlz Bend 317 W McKinley, 255-2551, Mishawaka 1248 Nappanee Street, 262-9873, Elkhart 
. ---------~------------------------------------------------------~ 
J 
The Observer • SPORTS zone this year." The greater concern for the Irish will again be their problem with consistency. "We've been up and down all year," Ingelsby said. "One day we'll come out and look like one of the best teams in the country and the next we'll look like one of the worst. We just have to improve our consistency and not fall behind early." After the 1-2 road trip the team also looks forward to play­ing back at the Joyce Center. "It will be good to get back horne in our own gym," lngelsby said. "Hopefully, we'll get a big crowd and a good win." 



The Observer/John Daily Coach John Macleod is looking for Antoni Wyche and the healthy Irish players to provide the scoring during Keith Friel's absence. 

(February 19-24, 1998) 
Need a place for your family to stay? 
Try Sacred Hearts Parish Center 
(St. Joseph Hall on campus) We set a $50.00 per person donation for the weekend. Come Early (Thursday), Stay Late (Tuesday) Same low price. 
For reservations please call Mr. Paul Eddy at 631-7512 

Wednesday, February 11, 1998 page 16 The Observer • SPORTS 

After that meet, he set new personal records in meets at



McMullen 
Notre Dame in each of the next three years as well as this past
continued from page 20 
Saturday. By the end of his col­legiate career, coaches around

any kind of adversity we've the country wished they had
faced, we've dealt with in the discovered McMullen.
past," Jill said. "I just stayed 
He was an eight-time all­

supportive. lie's very support­
American while at Eastern

ive of me, and it's so worth it Michigan and his highest fin­now with him running well. It's 
ishes at nationals were a 4xso fulfilling to see him per­

800-meter relay victory in
forming well again." 
1993, second place in the

Born and raised in Cadillac, 
1500-meter run outdoors in

Mich., McMullen was not 1995, and third place in the
always a track runner. lie ini­indoor mile in the same year.
tially dreamed of becoming a !lis dreams of Olympic glory professional football player. 
began when he was watching

lie never got tired during the Super Bowl in 1992. A
conditioning for football, and commercial for the Olympicshis coach suggested he go out 
came on, and he decided he

for track. Jlis first season was wanted to go. Needing to shareas a junior in high school. He it with someone, he called hisdid not put track ahead of foot­grandfather, who was his soleball in his mind until his senior 
confidant about his Olympicyear, when he won the state dreams and source of supportmeet in the mile and placed 

for the next three years.

second in the 800-meter run. 
However, his grandfather

Eastern Michigan was the 
never saw McMullen achieveonly school to recruit him to 

his dream because he passedrun track. where he received 

away before McMullen quali­only about $600 in scholarship fied for the Olympics. 

money for his freshman year. 
"My grandfather related withrrom the beginning, he hit it me on a more spiritual levelofT with the coach, Bob Parks, when I decided this was what I

and still trains under Parks 
wanted to do in life," McMullentoday. 
said.

"My most memorable placfJ "My wife has been incrediblyto run is Notre Dame. I'm a supportive. She is the personpracticing Catholic, and l have who goes through the nervous­
an attachment to this place," 
ness with me and travels with

McMullen said. "My coach 
me. My parents are my periph­made a big risk when I was a eral support, and as an athlete,

freshman and put me in the 
it means a lot to me when theyfast heat with the fast guys in arc at a meet. " 

the Central Collegiate 
Two weeks after graduatingChampionships at Notre Dame. 

from college with an account­
.\ r / .. ._.., 
''<;,A~W: 
~~=~ 
PRESENTS 
by 

ing degree, he became the 1995 U.S. champion in the 1500-meter run, a feat he repeated the next year, when he qualified for the U.S. Olympic team. 
"Making the Olympic team in 1996 was probably the second­best running experience of my life," McMullen said. . "The best was running for the American team in the pre­liminaries in the Olympics in Atlanta. That will probably always be, until the year 2000, my best race. There was an amazing crowd. It was like the wave was following me around the track." 
McMullen will compete in the 
U.S. indoor track and field championships later this month in Atlanta. 
''I'd like to re-establish some respect internationally to my event," McMullen said. "I'd really like to raise its level this year. This is kind of a building year to begin to build for the 2000 Olympic Games. My ulti­mate goal is to get myself in position to run for a medal for the United States in 2000." 
Career bests -Paul McMullen 
•1995, 1996 USATF 1 ,500-meter champion 
•1 
Oth in 1995 World Championships 

•Semifinalist 
in 1996 Olympics •1 ,500-meter best time -3:34.45 

-run in Cologne, Germany, in August 1995 

•Mile 
best time -3:56.63 


-run February 7, 1998, in adidas I Me yo Invitational at Notre Dame 
• 800-meter best time -1 :45.90 -run in Norway, 1995 
Saint Mary's Student Activites Board presents 




Johnny Lawrence 
Guitarist and Artist 
I 
Ill 
• ., ..., 

IT'S THAT TIME OF YEAR AGAIN! 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNI ASSOCIATION IS LOOKING FOR STUDENTS WHO WANT TO MAKE SOME SSSS DURING THE ALUMNI REUNION JUNE 4-7 1998 OR ALUMNI FAMILY HALL JUNE 4 -AUGUST 2 1998 
INTERESTED? APPLY AT STUDENT EMPLOYMENT 336 GRACE HALL OR AT THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 202 BROWNSON HALL 
I 



\ 
•


j:f /i
NAGANO 
COVERING THE WINTER OLYMPICS IN
1 t 8 I 
ICS

NAGANO, jAPAN 
Wednesday, February 11, 1998 page 17 
• OLYMPIC UPDATES • SPEED SKATING 
Moseley wins gold, claims first U.S. medal 
Associ a ted Press 
IIZUNA KOGEN, Japan 

The United States won its first medal of the Nagano Olympics when Jonny Moseley bumped and jumped his way to gold in the men's moguls. 
Moseley, 22, of Tiburon, Calif., was the last of the 16 competitors to dash down the mogul field. He bounced through the bumps like a pinball and performed his signature "air" move: a 360 Mute Grab Jump in which he did a full "helicopter" rotation and grabbed his inside ski. 
The run earned him 26.93 points. The silver medal went to Finland's .!anne Lahtela with 26.00 points and the bronze to another Finn, Sami Mustonen, with 25.7f>. 
"I got No. 1!" Moseley shouted when he saw his winning score go up. "I can't bclievn it. Oh mv God!" 
Tlw moguls event is scored by judges, who count 50 percent for turns and 25 percent each for speed and jumps. 
Tlw nvnnt was held under sunny skies, with thousands of nag-waving and horn­blowing fans gathered along the sides and at the bottom of the hill. 
Associated Press shed tears every time he paused to decided by the combined time of twoWeinbrecht gets a salute. He bowed before Crown Prince races. 
NAGANO, Japan Naruhito and his wife, Princess With every frantic, chopping stride,second chance in final It wasn't enough that the son of the Masako, and was flung into the air six Shimizu moved closer to easing the emperor was in the M-Wave. times by his teammates. pain of past Japanese failures in the
Associated Press 
Hiroyasu Shimizu felt as if all of The prime minister called with his Winter Games. Japan had crammed into the cavernous congratulations, and within hours a There was Masahiko Harada, whoIIZUNA KOGEN, Japan speedskating hall, eager to see whether banner headline in an extra edition of blew his ski-jumping team's virtuallyMuch has changed for Donna one of its smallest athletes could fulfill the Shinano Mainichi in Nagano pro­unbeatable lead on the last jump inWeinbrecht since she won the first Olympic gold medal in freestyle skiing in 1992.. 
In trying to defend her moguls crown in Lillehammer four years ago, the 32­year-old from West Milford, N.J., had problems physically and mentally, and finished seventh. 
"That hurt a lot," she said. "After Lillehammer. it got to the point I was afraid to ski in front of people. It took me a year to overcome that. 
"It's becoming a love-hate relationship for me. I believe I can do it. It's just a matter of letting go of those fears." 
Weinbrccht gets another chance W1~dnesday (Tuesday night EST) when she leads a strong American team into the Olympic final. 
The race is just one run down a course of bumps, with two mini-jumps for acro­
batic leaps for the 16 who qualified. 
Weinbrecht. Liz Mcintyre and Ann Battelle arc capable of sweeping the women's medals. Men's qualification leader .lonny Moseley tops the men's field. 
Canada's Anne-Marie Pelchat was the : women's qualifying leader, but that has r been the high point of her season. 
'~··-·:::::.:c;·:,·.""··'····;·.:·:.·.:·::"--~··· 
.. ·····-­


MEDALS TABLE 

1998 Nagano Winter Olympics 
Through Tuesday, Feb. 10 Through 15 Medals 
Country  G  s  B  Total  
Germany  1  2  3  6  
Russia  3  2  0  5  
Norway  1  1  3  5  
Finland  2  1  1  4  
Italy  0  3  1  4  
Austria  0  1  3  4  
Japan  2  1  0  3  

G-Gold, S-Silver, B-Bronze 
AP the hopes of an entire nation. 

"About a week ago, I started to feel an uneasiness," said Shimizu, a 5-foot­4 sprinter who holds the world record in the 500 meters. "I started to worry: 'What ir" I do not achieve what everyone expects?' Some times I felt like I want­ed to run away and be held." 
On Tuesday, he ran straight into the hearts of the Japanese. Transforming the throat-gripping pressure into power, Shimizu burst to an Olympic record in the 500 to give his country its first gold medal of the Nagano Games. 
In his victory laps around the oval, he 
Associated Press 
NAGANO, Japan 
The fxre that always rages in Artur 
Dmitriev burned equally .bright in 
partner Oksana Kazakoya; She 
matched his passion in every intricate 
spin, every precise step,.every difficult 
jump. 
And because she did, Dmitriev now 
has a special spot in OlympiC history­
the first man to win pairs figure skat­
ing gold with two differentpartners. 
Skating to Handel's "PasSJ).caglia," 
their emotions burned >thr(Jugbout, 
particularly on a series of~::ombination 
spins, capped by the "Natalia spin" 
made famous by Dmitriev's former 
partner, Natalia Miskhkutienok. 
Together they extended the Russian 
domination of this event w~th a soulful 
performance that evel) el'trn(ld ·one 
perfect 6.0. It was the kind of showing 
coach Tamara Moskvimi envisioned 
when she teamed them in 1995 after 
Dmitriev dumped Mishkutienok. 
"I like their emotions and passion 
and power," said Moskvina. 
"Everything was planned .and very 
well done. He was ready and he did it. 
Oksana and he have a similar tem­
perament and artistic emotion.» 
When they fmished, he chivalrously 
kissed her hand and they hugged 
tightly as Olympic champions -the claimed, "Shimizu Gold." 

At a news conference Wednesday (Tuesday night EST), Shimuzu said that whatever adulation or endorsements come his way, he will retain the humil­ity and folksiness that have endeared him to crowds in Japan and elsewhere. 
"Inside, I have to be able to tell myself that I am not Hiroyasu Shimizu the gold medalist, but the Hiroyasu Shimizu that made this possible," he said. 
Shimizu finished the race in 35.59 seconds, beating the Olympic record he had set the day before. For the first time in Olympic history, the 500 was 
• PAIRS SKATING 

Dmitriev earns spot in history 
10th straight games a Russian or Soviet couple has won a pairs gold medal. 
"I tried to skate emotionally and I talked With Oksana. and told her. to be emotiqnal for th~ p~~lic," . IJmitriev said. "I am happy we r.ould concen­trate; we had to concentrate because we skated last.'' 
By the time Kazakova~Dmitriev took the ice, Americans Kyoko Ina and Jason Dungjen knew they wouldn't end a U.S. drought in Qlympic pairs that goes hack . to 19~~~ when Jill Watson and ··Peter Oppegard won bronze. They were destined to finish fourth. 
"We needed to be perfect and have a lot of mistakes on the other end," Ina said. "But we are fourth at the Olympic Games and that's rme with us." 
Moskvina thoug~t th~. event•. went superbly, of course ..,..-o sh~ also coaches Silver medalists Yelena Berezhnaya and Anton Sikhartilidze, 
So did. Kazakova, who at first was fearful of joining with Dmitriev. 
"I am so happy, it felt so good," said Kazakova, who held the pairing back when they first teamed :UP· Petractors thought she would never match Mishkutienok, with whom Dmitriev won the 1992 Olympics and was sec­ond in '94. 
Now, there are no doubts. She long Lillehammer four years ago. And Midori Ito, who botched her short pro­gram in figure skating in 1992. 
As much as the Japanese speedskat­ing team tried to deflect the pressure from Shimizu -officials asked local reporters to keep their questions to a minimum in the days leading up to the games -he could not escape it. 
He said he was nervous at the open­ing ceremony, where he was Japan's flag-bearer, and nervous after his first race, a 35.76 that set an Olympic record and raised Japanese hopes even higher. 
ago mastered the unique spin in which her head is at his feet, one arm wrapped around his leg, the other holding hers. It was the other moves­particularly the jumps and twists ­t))at~he needed to.sharpen. And most of all; she needed fervor. So will they be back for the next games? 
Kif the Olympics are next year, yes," Dmitriev said. "Four more years, we will see." 
Mandy Woetzel and Ingo Steuer were third, the fxrst Olympic pairs medalJor Germany since 1980. 
lnil • and Dungjen, two-time American champions, remained fourth -where they were after the short program, when their coach, Peter Burrows, claimed they were under­marked. 
But they didn't skate nearly as well as the medal-winners in the free skate, which is worth two-thirds of the total score. 
Dmitriev,.perhaps the most majestic ofall skaters, and Kazakova received a perfect 6.0 for artistry from the Czech judge. Their precision was evident from the beginning of their 4.5 minute routine, when they nailed side-by-side ~riple toe loops and followed quickly with double axels. 
When introduced as the winners, he pounded his heart while waving to the crowd. 
_j 
Wednesday, February I I, 1998

The Observer • SPORTS
page 18 

• SAINT MARY's TRACK Saint Mary•s Track Schedule 
Belles ready for points 
By SHANNON RYAN 
Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's track is up and running, but not toward winning yet. The Belles have only raeed in non-scoring meets so far. but will begin racing for points Saturday in Chicago. 
At Division 11 Lewis University on Saturday. Saint Mary's com­peted against 14 schools. The team of seven indoor racers gained valuable experienee for their upcoming indoor season which begins this Saturday at the University of Chicago. 
"I was pleasml with our per­formance [at Lewis)." 12-year head coach Larry Szczechowski said. "It was nice to get out and compete. It was a good starting point for us." 
Saint Mary's will lean heavily upon junior co-captain and last year's all-American Stacy Davis, who vaulted the school into 26th place nationally. The two-time MVP who holds four Belles track records proved at Lewis that she is in top 'form again this year. 
Davis. healing from a leg injury, sped to a 7.42 finish in the 55-meter dash, second only to a runner from Valparaiso. llad it been a regular scoring meet, the time would have been provisionally qualifying for the 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 

Shorin~Ryu Karate -:--This semester-long course meets in Hockne Room 219 on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 6 to 7:30 
p.m. You must register in advance at HecSports and the fee is $18. Call J-8237. · , 
Jazz Dance-A Jazz Dance class will be offered Saturdays and Tuesdays from 12 p.m. to 1:30 p.m. (Sat.) and 8 to 9 p.m. (Tues.) in Rockne Hm. 301. 
Aikido -Classes on Monday from 7 to 8:30 p.m. in Hoom 301, and Friday from 7:30 to 9:30 p.m. in Room 219 in Hockne. Bring comfortable clothes. 

L~S ~EBRATE THE 
~~~ ~ 
~ ITfiillmfi~mm ~ 
W3)[K[lfl CB[pcoo illa¥Bll! 
Beginning F~a-·ry 16th.· 
Enter to win your ance~ crowned KING UEEN ""..., Finnegan's own . 
Mardi Gras Cele/v~n The winner will rece~·:vt .· ' ~ to New Or Sv _..~_? Dr~wing will be held on r~ary 20th. Different events,games, rites ami 
'-... w 

drink specials daily. ?. "'~b. for more details in r lhe Observer .. E.. \Or call 283-0452 
G .. ~-~ 

···~~···~···················· 

" " Fil'\negan's Irish Pub 113 E. Wayne Downton South Bend 
Indoor Championship, which Davis raced in last year. 
"I look for her to improve," Szczechowski said. "But I was pleased with her performance." 
The coach will also be looking to co-captain Carrie Kate Briscoe to shine in indoor dis­tance races. Briscoe, a junior, is a two-year Jetter winner, fea­tured in the 3.000-meter indoor and 5,000-meter outdoor. Sophomore Sharis Long is also showing promise as she leaped to a 33.83 finish in the 200­meter hurdles at the Lewis meet. 
On the fast track in Chicago, Saint Mary's will be part of a small. live-team meet. The meet 
Sat 2107 at University of Chicago* 11 am sat 2121 at Huntington College* 11 am Sat 3/21 at Wabash College Invitational tba Sat 3/28 at Southwest Michigan College tba Wed 4/01 Kalamazoo College tba 
at Albion College Wed 4/08 Defiance College 2:30pm at Adrian College Sat 4/11 Alma College tba at Calvin College Sat 4/18 at Taylor University tba Invitational Sat . 4/25 Olivet College 12:30 pm at Hope College 
A~Jii
Sat }'#''" 5102 at DePauw University tba Invitational • Indoor Meet 
will include top competitors such as North Central and Ohio Northern. 
"There will be good eompeti­

. for the I 998-99 academic school 
tion and good sprinters," Szezeehowski said of the wnek­end meet. "It's early, but I think we're doing wnll." 
.. . . . . 

year. You tnay pick up applications atthe Office of Student Activities, 315 LaFortune. ; , 
DEADLINE: FEBRUARY "27' 1998. 
ALUMNI
Ill
SENIOR 
::1: 
~ 
Wednesday, February 11, 1998 The Observer· TODAY page 19 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
-



MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
DILBERT 
FASHION HEADQUARTERS
~-----------------------------1~ 

....
" 

'<OU COULD BE OUR NEXT 
@"' 0 

SUPER.MODEL. I LOVE 
"' 
"' 
0

'TI-\£ TUI"\0?.,_ 
"' 
IT'S A 
...
"' 
... 
0 
IJ) 
" 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Bouquet holder s Bouquet 
makers 10 ·· -OHensove 13 Deejay Don 
14 Two-time Grand 
Slam winner t5 Missile housing 16 "Relax!" 
19 --gratia artis 20 "I have half-­to. 21 Part of a bouquet 
22 The Beatles' last movie 24 Brush, so to 
speak 25 Baseball's Charlie Hustle 26 Meager 
28 Monopoly token 30 Mall component 31 Legal matter 34 ··Relax!" 38 Be in hock 39 1977 US Open 
champ 40 Likable 
41 Manipulate 42 Predominant 44Chiseler 46 James Bond 
backdrop 49 Not so bold 50 Former Soviet 
First Lady 52 Guinness 
specialty 53 "Relax!" 56 Cravings 57 "The Brady 
Bunch" housekeeper 

Aries -This is a great day for Starting Over. You are positive, ener­gized, and eager to impress others. You show your sincerity by avoiding any of the flaky, self-indulgent behav­ior you may have allowed yourself lately. 
Taurus -Today you are feeling the Heat of burning family or finan­cial issues. Beware of mistakes made in the haste of urgency. You are learning a hard lesson that you once might have been able to avoid. 
Gemini -Words of affection come with Physical Evidence today. Your 
REALJ1Y 
MIKE PETERS 

friendly opponent melts in the palm of your hand. There is nothing guilty about your pleasure. You will enjoy feeling solid and grounded today. 
Cancer -Nobody who matters is upset by your Semi-Tough act today -it's a mask you wear to get the job done. Be sure not to bring your work home with you. Yield to your true nature. 
Leo -This is your day· of Deliverance. As the Moon passes into Virgo, you will understand the uni­verse's grand design, and you'll know where you fit in the agenda. Expect your public and private goals to line up perfectly. 
SCOTT ADAMS 

Virgo -Today it seems like some­
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


WE  PREFER OUR  I  CAN  
SUPER MODE L5 TO  MORt..  
LOOK  UNHEAL\1-\Y,  ''SILLY  
IN  A. St.XY WAY.  



one else has grabbed the remote and 
A.DD A FEW 

is Switching Channels in your life. If 
you can surf the chaos without going 
crazy, your sense of order and control 
IT'S J"UST 
PUTTY." 

should return by the end of the day. Libra -At Long Last Love comes 
NOJ IT WOULD BE. 
EASY TO OVEROO THAT SORT 
OF THING. 
into your world today. Your life may be in mild disarray, but the stage is set for an earthy magic to happen. There is no way you can be complete­ly prepared. Do not fight the change. 
Scorpio -The stress of this Mad Dog Time has you foaming at the mouth. Set aside your r.abid anger over the unchangeable and consider ways to cope. Your pedigree shows you capable of more than blind reac­tion. 
Sagittarius -Today the Archer in you feels the pull of The Hunter's Moon, even if the real Moon is in transit between Leo and Virgo. You close in on your target with stealth and precision. The game is nearing its end. 
Capricorn -For those trying to get into a new industry, this is not be the best day for Breaking ln. The club doors are closed, and no one is pre­pared to accept you as an equal. An unpaid internship may be the only way right now. 
Aquarius -This is one of those 
days when Best Friends can become 
worst enemies if they are not careful. 
Put someone else's interests before 
your own. Break a bad habit today to 
help keep the peace. 
Pisces -You seem to be trapped in a Silent Movie, hoping that others will read your lips. Your best bet is to encapsulate your meaning in a few words by getting control of the title cards. Ask the piano player to find some more expressive music. 
-
-· 
... 


58 Flyong eagle, e.g. 
59 Old polit. cause 
60 Novelist Dostoyevsky: Var. 61 Trojan ally, in the "Iliad" 
DOWN 

1 "Myra Breckinridge" author 
2 That's a subject for Dean Martin! JSummer ailment 4 Therapy fad 5 Like a .plum pudding &"C'est--" 7 Kenmore product B Crack the books 
9 Semicircle 
10 lndonesoan 
island 11 Cousin of a 
gazelle 12 June award 15Worklike a 
slave nltemsat a 
lost-and-found 18 First game 23 With 49-Down, 
"Say Anything" co-star 24 Cutting remark 26 Lieu 27 True-crime TV series 
43Jai--49See 44 Root on 23-Down 
50 Preside over howl? 51 Bone-dry 46 Pancho's 54 Clod amigo 
45 One raising a 
55 Admiral 47 Going stag competitor, 
48 Signs a lease once 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 

Wanted: Reporters and editors. 
1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). Annual subscriptions are available 1or the 

Join The Observer staff. 
best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

This Valentine's Day, why not *KISS* your sweetheart and have a wonderful romantic day you both will 
enjoy and remember??!! 
*Keep It Sober Sweetheart* 
The Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 
28 Simpson's criminal-case judge 
29Vulgar 
30Peddle 31 It's found in a 
runoH 
32 And so on 33 1967 Monkees song 
35 Zoo secti~n 
36 Dr. Atkons s plan 
37 Oklahoma town 
41 Blubbers 42 Participant at a 90's dance club 
--~--------~--~­

By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN  over three months aftnr his accident.  
Sports Writer  Since then he has had some of the best  
running performances of his earner. In  
In the past eight months, Paul  mid-January, lw won the Univnrsity of  
McMullen has staged one of the great­ Michigan Open Indoor ROO-motors in  
est athletic comebacks ever.  1:50.12, his bnst time 11vnr on an  
McMullen, a 1996 Olympian in the  indoor 200-meter track. On Saturday,  
1500-meter run and two-time U.S.  he ran the mile in a care!lr-best  
champion, nearly faced the end of his  3:56.(>3, placing second to his long­ 
running career last summer. lie has  time competitm, KPvin Sullivan of the  
recovered from losing two tons in a  University of Michigan.  
lawnmower accident, and ran his pnr­ "I got homo on Saturday night and  
sonal record time as an unattached  called Dr. Masini to say, 'We're back."'  
runner in the mile this past Saturday  McMullen said. "No one ever does any­ 
- at the adidas!Meyo Invitational here at  thing great alorw. I believe that you  
Notre Dame.  need people to help you along the way  
After mowing a neighbor's lawn  and you nned to go back and thank  
early last June, he was walking the  them.  
lawnmower, which was new and on a  This race is about being watched  
high setting, down a steep bank and  over by a God becaus11 God has been  
let down his guard for an instant.  watching over me. I just never quit.  
Although he had been mowing lawns  I'm not a quitter. I havn a faith in God  
since he was eight, including as a sum­ that he put me on this earth to run,.  
mer job, he slipped on the wet grass.  and that's my job. I believe in it pas­ 
Ilis right foot was caught under the  sionately. If I don't usn this gift, I'm  
blade of the mower.  settling for mediocrity."  
"At that moment," McMullen said, "I  In tlw past ynar, M(:Mullen lwgan to  
was thinking it might be time to  place his wife and his faith in God  
change careers because I thought I  higher than his running. ./ill is also a  
might have just ended my track  world-elass runner, with lwr main  
career."  nvnnt being the ROO-mnter run. She  
The scariest moment for McMullen  rnpresented the U.S. last year in  
came at the hospital when they took  Athens in the World Championships.  
off his shoe.  T lw co u p Ie m 11 t i n Se pt n m b n r of  
"I thought my big toe was going to  1993 at a cross eountry meet, with  
fall off and then I would have been  Paul running for Eastern Michigan and  
done running," McMullen said. "When  Jill for Western Michigan. Paul liknnml  
I realized I wasn't going to bleed to  their relationship to that of tlw couple  
death, I started to tell people that I  in the Titanic, with the samn, "You  
was an Olympian in the 1500-meter  jump, I jump" nHmtality. lie described  
run, and then the concern kind of  their first meeting as !wing hit by a  
entered everyone's face that the guy  bolt of lightning. During eollegn, lw  
they were working on really rHJeded  would hitehhike and stow away on  
his toes and needed expert care."  Amtrak to visit her because lw did not  
Notre Dame graduate and former  havn any money. The two were mar­ 
football player for the Fighting Irish  ried in the Catholie C:hurch in Sept.  
Miehael Masini performed the surgery,  1995.  
Photo courte sy of Paul McMullen saving the big toe and parts of the sec­ "The accident was a test for us, but  
Paul McMullen, a 1996 Olympian in the 1500, has fought back from a pot ential career­ond and third toes.  
ending injury and was in top form at  last weekend's adidas/Meyo lnvitqtional. McMullen, 25, was unable to run for  see MCMULLEN I page 16  
• MEN'S BASKETBALL  
Irish battle for balance  against BC  
By JOE CAVATO  has been on a roll as of late, aver­ Sophomore spark plug Keith  
Assistant Sports Editor  aging 20.1 points and 7.3  Friel, who has been sidelined  
rebounds per game in his last  after injuring his thigh against St.  
Afwr a three-game losing  nine outings.·  John's, is doubtful for tomorrow's  
streak that saw one of head coach  Woodward has made it a habit  contest.  
.. .John Macleod's top players fall  of saving the best for last. The  "Keith has been playing real  
into a shooting slump and his  senior captain ave-rages 15.1  well," Ingelsby said. "l-Ie's been  
offensive spark from the bench  points and 5.1 assists per game  our second leading scorer in Big  


SPORTS 
page 20 Wednesday, February 11, 1998 
• TRACK AND FIELD 

Olympian McMullen runs personal best at Notre Dame 
fall to injury, a home game 
with Hoston College could be 
just what the doctor ordered. 
The Irish will try to stay 
Boston 

ahead of the Eagles in the standings and away from the 
College

dubious honor of sitting at the .. bottom of the Big East 6 divi­sion. Boston Collnge, 12-12 overall 
~vs 


and 4-9 in the Big East, will Pnter tonight's contnst after 
Notre

losing thrne of its last four. The 1·1-() (~-7 in the Big East) Irish squad is looking to break out of 
Dame 

a two-ganw funk in which tlwir off(~nsn has bneomn stagnant. Guard Duarw Woodward and and has ignited Eagle second-half 
East games. When he went out it affected our offense." 
Superstar Pat Garrity's eur­rent mini-slump has also affected the Irish offense. In three of the last four games, Garrity has been held under 20 points and is coming off an uncharacteristic 5-of-15 shooting performance against Georgetown. 
"I guess I'm in a little slump," Garrity said after the Georgetown game. ''I'm just not making the shots right now that I'm suppose to make. 
"I guess it's boon like that since 
Antonio Grangnr lead tho Boston rallies in a loss to St. John's and a tho Villanova game," he contin­Collnge attack. Grangnr will give win over Georgntown. ued. "It's a little frustrating, but the Irish all thny can handle in "Grangflr and Woodward are sometimes I guess these things the post as hn averages 17.1 two of the better players in the happen." 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 

points pnr game and 6.~ Big East," Irish point guard 
Leviticus Williamson (left) is listed as probable for tonight's game
rebounds pnr gamn. The senior Martin lngelsby said. 
seeM. HOOPS page 15 against Boston College, but Keith Friel will remain sidelined. 

Men's Basketball, 

Track and Field
• 
Q.) •SMC track prepares for scored meets 
vs. Boston College 

ar Buder Invitational, 
February II, 7:30p.m. 

February 12, 7 p.m. ~ 
see page 18

• ..... 
Men's Tennis ~ • Olympic coverage
Women's Basketball 

vs. Kentucky,
vs. St. John's, 
see page 17 
February 12, 7 p.m. 

3:30p.m.
• 

• JS 









