·-~-----·-~--~--------~-----~ ~­

Monday, January 26, 1998• Vol. XXXI No. 77 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
25th annual March for Life creates national attention 

ND/SMC students show support for unborn in D. C. 
By COLLEEN GAUGHEN News Writer 
They came to pray, and they came to protest. 
Hundreds of thousands of people gath­ered in Washington, D.C., last Thursday to mourn the loss of over 3 7 million unborn children. 
It was the 25th anniversary of the annu­al March for Life, a movement which began in immediate response to the Jan. 22, 1973, Supreme Court decision to legalize the clinical termination of preg­nancies. 
"The number of people there, from all over, was overwhelming," said Notre Dame freshman Sheila McCarthy. 
Representing Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Right to Life, 138 students, including five from Holy Cross College, joined the mass­es last week in expressing their pro-life beliefs. No Notre Dame priests, faculty, or administrators attended the protest. 

"Notre Dame is the crown jewel of Catholic education in this country," stated sophomore Josh Guerra, one of the trip's organizers. "As a Catholic institution, it should give its full support to the pro-life movement, a major event of which is the March for Life. It is our character and our responsibility." 
The Franciscan University of Stubenville and Christendom College are two of sev­eral institutions which completely shut down each year to participate in the march. 
The combined efforts of Catholic, Protestant and Jewish groups illustrated the range of religious diversity supporting the pro-life movement. Diversity was also seen in the wide variety of age groups represented. 
"One of the things I'm most impressed about is the amount of young people involved," said sophomore Jamie Kuhn, another organizer. "These are people who will be leading our country someday, and it gives me hope for the future." 
An array of religious leaders, congress­men and special guests spoke at a rally before the actual march. The March for Life began at the Ellipse, the area near the Washington Monument, and ended at the Supreme Court. 
see MARCH/ page 4 

Gernes shares poetry in honor of Australia 
By KRISTY KATZMANN News Writer 
Sonia Gernes, English pro­fessor at Notre Dame, will help the Notre Dame Australian Club celebrate 
Australia Day today by reading poetry from her most 
r  e c e  n t  
book.  "A  
B r  e  c  z e  

Called the 

Fro mantle 

Gernes
Doctor," at tlw UnivPrsity Club at 4:15 p.m. 
Gn r n n s fi r s t 
"So I went to Australia with a title looking for the poem, and when I finally found one, it wasn't just a regular poem, it was a very long one," Gernes explained. 
Her book is composed of three narrative poems: "The Indian School," "The Mutes of Sleepy Eye" and "A Breeze Called the Fremantle Doctor." While in Fremantle, Gernes spent her Sunday afternoons in a building dedi­cated to poetry readings, folk singing and other events. Gernes learned that the building had once served as an asylum and she began to imagine the stories 

conceived the that lived idea for her behind its
'My SECOND THOUGHT
book during walls. 

WAS, 'A BREEZE
her travels to "Because 
Fremantle. CALLED THE FREMANTLE DOC-spent Australia. in quite a bit
TOR, THAT'S KIND OF NICE,
1993, where of time she taught the KIND OF LIKE A STREETCAR there, that first group of 
NAMED DESIRE.' I THOUGHT, story of 
Notre Dame the breeze s t u d e n t s THAT'S A TITLE' echoed in 
involved in the study abroad program. 
Originally r r 0 m Minnesota and concerned about the heat in Fremantle, Gernes inquired about the availability of air condition­ing in the Australian teach­ing facilities. She found that the classrooms were air con­ditioned but her apartment was not. because of a daily breeze called the Fremantle Doctor. 
"My first thought was, 'Yeah, right.' My second thought was, 'A breeze called the Fremantle Doctor, that's nice. kind of like a streetcar named Desire.' I thought, that's a title. 
my mind 
and I 
SONIA CERNES began to 
imagine 
the women who had been in this building at different periods," said Gernes. 
Although the three poems in "A Breeze Called the Fremantle Doctor" pertain to different subject matters, they all relate to a real and specific time, and deal with some kind of disability or dif­ficulty. Gernes will concen­trate today on the last sec­tion of her book which deals with Australia. 
The Notre Dame Australian Club welcomes everyone to the reading and the recep­tion following the event. 

Play of the Mind brings nation's women together 
O
ver the weekend, Saint Mary's students, faculty and administrators joined repre­sentatives from 14 other women's colleges in The Play of the Mind Conference entitled "Borders to Bridge -The Women's College Challenge." 
The event began Thursday with dinner, and concluded Sunday with a farewell brunch. The purpose of the conference was to explore issues facing women and women's colleges in the 1990s. 
The weekends' activities included a guest faculty/student develop­ment professionals session, a host and guest team planning session, sessions on collaboration and lead­ership, and other discussion groups. 
Some of the visiting colleges were: Smith College, Northampton, Mass.; Texas Women's University, Denton, Texas; Trinity College, Washington, D.C.; and Wesleyan College, Macon, Ga. 
Photos: The Observer/Manuela Hernandez 
.--------------~--------------------------------~·------------------~ ~-­
r page 2 
t 
•1NSIDE COLUMN 





The real loser: The image of the U.S. 
Prnsidcnt Bill Clinton was caught with his pants down last wr.ek. 
l.itc rail y. 
But whatever (or whonrnvcr) he may have done, talk of resignation or impeachment may be a little premature. 


First of' all, Bill Clinton Matthew Loughran 
will never resign. llr. is A~sociare News Editor 
fiercely political and, as 
the program "Biography" on the Arts and 
Entertainment network said this week, "lie 
seems to be at his best when he is battling 
back. and counter-punching." All this past 
wnek. aidns have rnportnd incredulously that 
Clinton has been operating without any 
appearance of distraction or distress. 
Clinton showed in his early political career 
and in his handling of earlier scandals that he 
does not let this kind of thing bother him. 
Hichard Nixon, the only president ever to 
rnsign, did so after learning that the Congress 
was going to pursue articles of impeachment. 
The Congress may not bn able to impeach 
President Clinton. In order for them to pursue 
artidns of impeachment. Hepublican leaders 
of the Congress have to convince enough 
Democrats to vote against the president. In 
order for that to happen. they have to come 
up with solid evidence of' the "high-crimes 
and misdenwanors" necessary for the 
process. 
Kenneth Starr, whose role as special prose­
cutor is to prepare a case for prosecution in 
court, may not grant Monica Lewinsky immu­
nity. If hn does that, then the tapes of her con­
versations (most of which were madn over the 
phone, without her knowledge, not exactly 
legal) about the affair will not be admissible 
in a court of law. Nowhere on the tapes does 
either woman mention Clinton's name or does 
his voice evnr appnar. It is simply two women 
gossiping about a third, unnamed party. 
The prevailing mood is that he should 
resign if it is found that he suborned perjury. I 
agree. But I do not think that as shrewd of a 
politician as Clinton would let himself get 
close enough to the persuasion of Lewinsky to 
actually be convict1~d of subornation. His golf­
ing buddy Vernon Jordan may have told her 
to deny everything, but I doubt that Clinton 
would ever have actually connected himself to 
the procnss. 
It is unfortunate that the president's per­
sonal lifo has become his undoing. Some peo­
ple who are so fired-up and ready to impeach 
Clinton should slop and realize that none of 
this would have come about if not for some 
Hopublican zealots grabbing at every single 
straw that they can in order to bring clown a 
president who is actually working against 
their agenda. 
Possibly the most disgusting thing about this 
whole thing is not that the president might 
have slept with someone hair his age. It is that 
we have a former secretary who has been 
involved in trying to dig up White-House scan­
dals bdore, illegally taping her "friend," a 
love-struck former intern about illicit activi­
ties with the commander-in-chief and then, 
driven by a sexual harassment suit, turning 
over those tapes to a special prosecutor who 
is investigating the president's involvement in 
a real-estate deal. 
Sounds like a soap opera, doesn't it? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF 
News Graphics Kristi Klitsch Tom Roland Bill Uniowski Production 
Christopher Shipley Mark DeBoy Sports Lab Tech 
Bill Hare John Daily Viewpoint Kelly Brooks 
Accent Nathan Wills 

The Obsrrv<r (USPS 599 2-4000) is publi.'11od Monday rhrough Friday nccpt during exam and vaC2cion ~riod.s. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction righu arc reserved. 
Monday, January 26, 1998
The Observer• INSIDE 

~/Outside the Dome 
"'-y~~\~ 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Community gathers to show support for UF president 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. 
on one man with white hair and 
For a few brief moments Thursday • thick, black glasses who drives an old night, it seemed impossible that any­red pickup. thing could separate University of Chants ol' "llell no, he won't go," Florida president John Lombardi were followed by screams of "We from the school and community that love Lombardi" and "We want has loved him for eight years. Lombardi." 
As he stood on top of a chair out­"I hope this will give him a little side his front door, singing the UF personal resolve and strength to fight alma mater with a crowd of almost some of the pressurn (from the Board 2,000, there was no more talk of by student government brought many of Hegents) to resign," Student Sen. racial slurs and no more accusations Avery Dial said. 
to cheers and several to tears. It was of political maneuvering within the a far more hopeful mood than that of "(The regents) are not playing bully State University System. last week when it became public that anymore now that we've got people There was no more speculation Lombardi had called new chancellor back in our court." about Lombardi's future as UF presi­Adam Herbert -the first black to Lombardi kept the athletic dent. hold the position in Florida -an metaphors going when asked what "Oreo."
Instead, there was only Gator spirit he thought of the recent comment and unwavering support for a man "It's like going to a football game," made by regent Steve Uhlf'elder. who in the past week has been called Hep. Bob Casey, H-Gainesville, said chairman of the 14-member panel by many legislators, students, faculty as he stood among students, commu­that oversees Florida's public univ11r­and friends the best president this nity members,. UF faculty and local sities, that the "ball" of Lombardi's university -or any in the country -and state politicians. future is "back in his court." has ever had. But this time, the fans in their Lombardi said, "I'm just going to The Thursday night rally organized orange and blue garb were cheering dribble it awhile." 
• UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 
USC not a 'wired' campus 
LOS ANGELES 
USC was omitted from a recent list of the 100 top "wired" campuses in the nation, which ranks the colleges with the best college computer services and Internet accessibility. The reason for the omission is that the uni­versity did not receive a survey, said James Pepin, execu­tive director of University Computing Services. A survey was distributed to academic computing departments, information technology offices, public affair officials and students from 300 colleges and universities nationwide. For reasons unknown to Pepin, USC was not included in the 300 schools surveyed. MIT took the top honors as the most "wired" school. Among the state schools ranked in the survey, published on the Internet, were California at 17, UCLA at 78 and Stanford at 84. Facilities and services for academic computer services include three public user rooms, open 24 hours a day, equipped with approximate­ly 450 computers, according to SCampus. The main objective of the survey was to find the perfectly wired school where "everyone would own their own computer." according to the article. 
• UNIVERSITY OF CAUFORNIA~los ANGELES· Finance committee chair resigns 
LOS ANGELES 
Hobert Hhoan, USAC finance committee chair, resigned from his office Thursday, citing "personal reasons" in his ollicial statement. ''I'm resigning because I think that stu­dent government is corrupt," Hhoan said in an interview. "USAC doesn't represent the students. They only represent themselves." Rhoan, who was appointed chair of the finance committee in 1996 by then-president John Du, said that the pressure he faced from USAC council members eventually caused him to resign. "I just don't want to deal with the oli­garchy anymore," he said. Specifically, Hhoan claims that academic affairs commissioner Max Espinoza approached him and asked him to resign after Rhoan abstained from voting on a funding request. Espinoza denied this. "It's not in my authority to ask anyone to resign." 
• UNIVERSITY OF NORTH DAKOTA 
President questioned by legislature 
GHAND FOHKS, N.D. 

University of North Dakota president Kendall Bak11r probably thought he was out of hot water regarding recent UNO deficits as he went before the North Dakota legislature Wednesday. That, however, may not have been the case after the meeting. Baker told the Dakota Student Wednesday night that the questions he had lir,ld­ed were much the same as ones he has fielded previously. Baker said that this lime the questions were in a diffHrent way, with different implications. lie declined to comment on further details saying that he wantr,d to take time to think things through. The results of Wednesday's meeting were unavailable to the Dakota Student at press time. After a round of questioning from the North Dakota State Board of Higher Education on Thursday, Jan. 15, it seemed that the issue of' the medical school deficits had been put to rest. In an attempt to appeasn the board. Baker submitted two options in which the medical school would repay the debt after thrne years. Tim board initial­ly wished to table the issue, citing the need for more dis­cussion. 
• UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA Date rape trial raises awareness 
CIIAHLOTTESVILLE, Va. 

The Commonwealth's case against a student charged with sexually assaulting another student ended in dismissal Thursday, but it nonetheless has revived calls !'or increased awareness about cases involving "date-rap<~" allegations. In the case, a female studont alleged that fourth-year student --slipped derivatives of Hohypnol, the "date­rape drug, into her drink at a sorority date function and later sexually assaulted her. Yesterday, was cleared from the charges when Circuit Court Judge Jay T. Swett decided there was insullicient evidence to pursue the case. Dean of Students Hobert T. Canevari said it is too early to tell whether any special educational programs would be put together to specifically address~ of chemically induced sexual assault alleged in the -case. 

• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Monday, Jan. 26. 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
30s 

······-··-i·H 
L 

Monday Q 33 27 Tuesd~y c:::1 33 25 wednrsdayu ~36 32,. Thursday c:::1. 36 25 
( 1 ) '""' 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE
Friday ,, l~ 0 30 25 
\.1.t Auocllll.0 Presa
!, ,f"'..\--J' ":.J·; 
Atlanta 47 32 Denver 53 24 New York 41 30 Boston 35 25 Honolulu 82 62 Phoenix 72 51 Chicago 35 30 Indianapolis 43 31 Pittsburgh 37 25
r::(;A~,~9.~@ ~ ~ u 
Columbus 40 28 Los Angeles 69 50 St. Louis 47 38
Showers T-storms Rsin Flurries Snow Ice SUnny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Dallas 58 45 Miami 75 63 Wash., D.C. 43 29
Via Auocialed Press G~ 
---------~----­
Monday, January 26, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Dillon turns up energy awareness A little music and a lot of fun 
By TOM ENRIGHT conserve energy in our halls. The coalition sponsored the News Writer The competition was also competition this year in antici­announced during our hall pation of the Global Climate While students at Saint Mass," said Dillon Hall resident Change Conference in Japan; Mary's and Notre Dame Ryan LaMonica. the December event sought to opened their pockets for holi-Cardinal noted that differ-decrease the use of fossil fuels day charities. the residents of ences in energy increases could worldwide. "It's a great oppor­Dillon Hall cut back. be attributed to the different tunity for students to get 
i\s thP. winner of the Dorm ages of dorms; in the newer involved," said Hupp. Erwrgy Conservation ----------------, Cardinal directed some Contost, Dillon had the energy conservation sug­

rm Energy
smallest dorm energy gestions at the students consumption increase, nservation themselves. "Keep your 
6.21 nleetrie-kilowatt heat lower and wear hours per person, over a sweaters instead of t-one-month period. shirts when you are in 
"We were hoping to your dorm. Also, students boost campus awareness should turn off their dorm of our individual roles in lights and computers decreasing fuel consump-when at class. They can tion," said Karen Cardinal. be huge energy con-a rm~mber of Stuclfmts for sumers," he said. Environmental Action and Cardinal also suggested founder of the Notre Dame that students use comput-Environmental Coalition. ers with screens that auto-
The contest. sponsored matically shut off after a by the Notre Dame specific time period. Environmental Coalition. The coalition will pre­ran from October to sent Dillon Hall with a November of last year. traveling plaque and 
Despite the small increase 1. Ca ~~!!!§~ donate $100 to a nonprofit
in energy consumption by environmental group Dillon. other halls saw which will purchase
2. Pasq energy ·consumption 3 K ll endangered rain forest increases as high as 37.8 • nO S land in Dillon Hall's name. kilowatt hours pP.r person. 4. WeIS The coalition consists of i\fter Dillon, the top four Recycling Irish, the Terra enP.rgy-aware dorms were 5. McGiin~"111j••"" Club, Irish Outdoors, the Alumni. Keenan, Environ-mental Law Stanford, and 1..-----------------' Society and Saint Mary's
O'Neill halls. The halls with the great-dorms, residents have greater Students for Environmental est increase in energy con-control over their thermostats. Action group. The coalition sumption included Carroll, A possible correlation between also plans to sponsor an Earth Pasquerilla East, Knott, Welsh, the gender of residents and the Week festival this spring, and McGlinn halls. energy consumption per per-which will include speakers 
"We held a section meeting son was also noted, although and visiting representatives and discussed ways we could not studied by the coalition. from environmental groups. 
Kandinski 
~HE 199'7 SPECIALS FROM OF CLOSEOUT 
20-50% OR MORE! ! ! 
DISCOUNTED 
SALE LABELS­R THE COLORED
FO
-LOOK 


MONDAY-FRIDAY, JANUARY 26-30 
btl p:!iww\\ .I rent~tf.com 



--------------------------------------------~--­
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Monday, January 26, 1998 
Young NO fans help Irish sail past Friars ... 
-The Observer/Kevin Dalum 
Y
oung Notr~ Dame ~ans take to the courts during halftime of the women's basketball game aga1nst Providence on Saturday, Jan. 24. The fans were given the opportuni­
ty to shoot paper planes into buckets, showing their support for the Irish women. 
See story on the Irish's victory, page 20. 




March 
continued from page 1 
One of the guests was Norma McCorvey, the anonymous "Jane Roe" of the historic Roe v. Wade case, which legalized a women's right to have an abortion. 
''I'm so sorry for what I've caused the last 25 years," she said. McCorvey converted to Catholicism in 1995 and is now very active in the pro-life movement. 
As reported in a recent New York Times poll, 50 percent of Americans believe that abortion is murder, an increase from 30 percent 10 years ago. According to one of the con­gressmen, 67 of the 100 United States senators are pro-life. 
Twiee, both houses passed a ban on partial-birth abortion, an opera­tion whieh terminates the baby in the birth canal minutes before it is to be delivered. Twice, President Clinton has vetoed the ban. Congress will attempt to pass the ban a third time this year. 
"I went without any expeetations, except just to see people on the street," said sophomore Kristy Katzmann, "but I eame home so inspired. It was so uplifting, so pow­erful. the way so many different peo­ple came together for one cause. I felt that we had really done some­thing and that this kind of strength will change things." 
ND/SMC Right to Life saw an increase in the number of partici­pants attending the march. Last year 34 students traveled to D.C., yet this year 138 joined the protest. 
Notre Dame law professor Charles Rice, the faeulty advisor for the club, is an aetive and prominent figure in the pro-life movement, Kuhn said. The students stayed at the Catholic University of America, some in the gym and others in the Crypt of the Basilica of the National Shrine of the Immaeulate Concoption, located on the campus of CUA. 
The march ended on the steps of the Supreme Court, where a line of police officers separated the marchers from a handful of people supporting the pro-ehoice position by carrying signs that mad "Get Your Laws Off My Body." 
Pro-life signs Wflre as diverse as the crowd which carried them, including the Notre Damn/Saint Mary's banner reading "Irish Fighting For Life." One particular pro-life sign had a plastic doll with a syringe penetrating its head, dearly demonstrating the abortion method of saline injection. 
"Wn're talking about saving lives," said Guerra. 
The theme for the march this year was "His Truth Keops Marching On," an epithnt for the perseverance this event has display11d over the last 25 years. Nellie Gray, the president of National Hight to Life, has organized and attended every march since its inception in 1973. 
"It may seem like it's never going to happen, "said senior Megan Monahan, "but we must remember that it'll come in God's time. WP. need to be vigilant and continue to evangelize in the spirit of prayer." 
Kuhn and Guerra both hope next year will have the same enthusiasm of student participation, and that the faculty and administration will get involved as well. 
"Whether or not it's effective immediately," Kuhn concluded, "we can do something. You have to start somewhere." 
Brand Management Summer Internship Presentation 
All I st Year MBA's and Juniors of any major are invited to attend. 

"The Myth of the Product Life Cycle" 
Followed by a Q & A session about P&G Brand Management Summer Internship Opportunities. Room 162 College of Business Building Wednesday, January 28th 4:00PM Reception to follow at 5:00PM-Lower Level MBA Lounge, Room 149 

w 
-l 
I 
I I I ' 

• WoRLD NEWS BRIEFS Diana logo protects products 
In a bid to prevent peo­ple from profiting off Princess Diana's name, her memorial fund on Sunday unveiled a distinc­tive logo that will be attached to all official Diana memorabilia. Diana's sons William, 15, and !larry, 13, have approved the design, 

which is her own signature in purple, one of her favorite colors. over the words "Princess of Wales Memorial Fund." "The trustees wanted a logo that would reflect the nature of tho fund. which was set up as a sponta­nnous memorial" after Diana's death in a Paris car crash on Aug. 31, a fund spokesman said on condition of anonymity. Within days of the tragedy, a multimillion­dollar industry in unauthorized memorabilia sprung up, including T-shirts, plates, mugs and dolls. Many of the sellers have refused to give any of the proceeds to Diana's fund. Produced by London design consultants SpPncer Landor. the logo will be used on all produ('ts authorized by the Princess of Wales MPmorial Fund. which raises money for 
Diana's favorite causes. 
Government establishes new standards for meat, poultry 
WASHINGTON 
Tlw. government's new system for prevent­ing contamination in processing plants is known by the acronym IIACCP. Some meat and poultry inspectors sardonically say that moans: "llavc i\ Cup of Coffee and Pray." i\c:tually. it means "Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points." a system beginning Monday for the 312 largest meat and poultry processing plants that account for 75 percent of livestock slaughtered in the United States. It will be phased in over two years in the remaining 6,100 plants. "We definitely have our work cut out for us, as there arc many disturbing pitfalls and apparent weakness­es," Handy Wurtclo, western president of the National Joint Council of Food Inspection Locals. said in a letter on the union council's lntPrnet site. Under the new regime, plants install their own facilities preventive mea­sures to reduce E. coli and salmonella bacte­ria and improve sanitation. Agriculture Secretary Dan Glickman said the system is a "rr,volutionary improvement" over the old approach's reliance on sight, touch and smell. "Bather than catching problems after they occur, we will now focus on preventing problems in the first place," Glickman said. 11/\CCP systems involve identifying points in a procflssing plant where contamination is most likely to occur and finding methods to combat it. 
Nasdaq:-30.14 1575.93 -0.58 
• 
NYSE: 500.68 -3.11 
S&P 500: 

Composite 
957.58 Volume:
7700.74 -5.46 633,000,100 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 

filtdl!6t!ll:: IICKEB 'tltCU6t!i'-ii; I li61t:i I!BICE 
K1Nt1 POWER INTL KP<; B5.71 1.500 3.250 PAI.llM.\R MED TECH PMTI 77.78 0.766 1.750 !lATA TRANSLATION DATX 50.00 0.750 2.250 PERSPECTIVE 8-WTG I'BIOW 44.44 1.000 3.250 LASER CORP 1.5ER 44.00 1.375 4.500 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 

lll<i!TAL LIGHTWAVE DIGL 55.62 6.188 4.938 AID AUTO STORES AID 27.66 0.812 2.125 LASER POWER CORP LPWR 25.25 1.562 4.625 QUAL! X GROUP Ql.IX 22.81 0.812 2.750 FF.I COMPANY FEIC 20.65 2.188 8.406 

Despite an ill-fitting suit... 
NASA exchanges Mir astronauts 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
SPACE CENTER, 
Houston 

Despite an ill-fitting spacesuit, American astronaut Andrew Tho­mas moved into Mir on Sunday for a 4 1/2-month stay while NASA and the Hussian Space Agency debated what to do about the problem. 
At first, Mission Control forbid Thomas from spending Sunday night aboard the Hussian space station as original­ly planned and ordered him to stay on the adjoining Endeavour. Then in a confusing twist, officials relented; they said the suit, once altered, should be good enough. 
NASA's deputy director of the shuttle-Mir pro­gram, Jim Van Laak, said there was a "remote possibility" that the suit adjustments would not work and that Thomas would be unable to remain aboard Mir. 
Thomas needs a prop­erly fitting spacesuit to wear in the attached Soyuz spacecraft. Even though he's not supposed to ride in the Soyuz, that's his only way back to Earth in the event of an emergency following Endeavour's departure. 
Thomas' custom-made Hussian suit 
for the Soyuz is so tight he can't get 
into it. And the only spare, the suit 
belonging to David Wolf, a Mir resi­
dent for the past four months, is. too 
big. 
"It's basically unusable," Thomas said, referring to Wolfs suit. 
After hours of fiddling with the two suits, Thomas asked Mission Control pointblank: Should he spend the night on Endeavour or Mir? Wolf had the same question. 
Mission Control, in turn, asked 
Thomas whether he'd feel safe using 
Wolfs oversize suit in an emergency. 
He said he'd get by and would feel 
comfortable about the situation, at 
least for one night. Mir's commander, 
Anatoly Solovyov, favored Thomas moving into Mir. 
After conferring with their counter­parts in Moscow, however, NASA flight controllers opted to have Thomas sleep aboard space shuttle Endeavour on Sunday night. 
And Wolf was instructed to sleep on Mir. That way, each crew could go its separate way if the shuttle had to depart suddenly. 
An hour later, after further talks with Moscow, Mission Control announced that the two astronauts could, indeed, swap places. It was later declared to be an official crew exchange. 
The problem with Wolfs suit is that the sleeves are 6 inches too long for Thomas. Thomas is 5-8 and weighs 160 pounds; Wolf is 5-10 and weighs 185 pounds. 
Thomas said he believes his spine stretched and he became taller in space -a common occurrence in weightlessness. 
It could also be that his suit was not sized correctly before the flight, he said. 
It is the first time an American has encountered such a problem in the two years that shuttles have been dropping off astronauts at Mir. 
Thomas, a 46-year-old Australian­born engineer, is the seventh and final NASA astronaut to live on the Hussian space station. If all goes well, a shuttle will swing by for him at the end of May. 
"You know, you think you're psycho­logically prepared but things often turn around and surprise you," Thomas said Sunday amid all the trouble. "I think it's going to be tough." 
Wolf said he plans to talk with Thomas about ways to cope with lone­liness -provided the spacesuit prob­lem is resolved -before Endeavour pulls away on Thursday. 
"You have to keep a good rational grip on your mind to hold those feel­ings at bay," Wolf said. 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Monday, January 26, 1998 
OPEC reels from crisis in Asia 
Associated Press 
VIENNA, Austria 
The price of oil has tumbled to its lowest level in nearly four years, and the OPEC min­isters who pushed themselves into the mess are confused and divided as they try to bounce back. 
Several ministers have called an emergency meeting Monday to deal with the crisis -which of course is a wind­fall for oil consumers -but their timing and strategy may bfl off, analysts say. 
The biggest player, Saudi oil minister Ali Nairni. won't attend, so the handful of min­isters who do show up will be stuck in a position where they can make recommendations but not do anything about a glut of oil on world markets. 

OPEC decided in November, undnr severe pressure from thn Saudis, to raise its stated output level by 10 percent, to 
27.5 million barrels a day. 

But the group was already producing some 28 million barrels a day, and the eco­nomic crisis in Asia has destroyed all forecasts for a big growth in global demand for crude oil this year. As a result, oil prices are in retreat. 
OPEC's secretary-general, Hilwanu Lukman of Nigeria, was asked about the depressed market on Sunday. "Of course I'm not happy. Nobody's happy," Lukman said. 
A lot of noise with no action by oil ministers this week could further weaken the mar­ket, which also has been slumping as a result of a gen­erally mild winter in the United States and Europe that has reduced demand for heat­ing oil. 
It's impossible to forecast the markets, but traders might well be further spooked if OPEC complains about its own overproduction but doesn't even make any moves to stop it, analysts say. 
Other experts believe things aren't likely to deteriorate much more in the short term. "The damage is already done," said Geoff Pyne, who follows oil for UBS Ltd. in London. "It's hard to see how they can do worse. I don't see that they can do a lot of damage unless they're silly enough to try to raise expectations of a produc­tion cut" The Saudis have a good reason to stay away from any talk about cutbacks. Naimi was the minister who pushed the divisive plan at the last OPEC meeting in November to raise the stated output ceiling by 10 percent, and oil prices have dropped by around $4 a barrel since then. 
The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries was getting more than $18 a barrel before -compared to its official target of $21 -but saw prices plunge to a little more than $14 last week. 
This creates a dilemma that will have the OPEC nations missing national budget tar­gets, but any kind of reversal in policy would mean a big loss of face for the Saudis, the world's top oil producers. 
Unfortunately for oil con­sumers in developed western nations, retail fuel prices have not dropped so much because taxes make up a big part of the bill. 
Analysts say the most likely solution for OPEC might be a quiet -maybe totally silent ­unilateral decision by the Saudis to pump less. 
"They'd be embarrassed to do something openly, as opposed to just cutting back in a quiet way," said Leo Droll as, chief economist at the Center for Global Energy Studies in London. 
The Saudis produce about one-third of OPEC's oil and have the. greatest ability to lower -or raise -output. 
The ministers from Iran, Nigeria and Kuwait who have planned the emergency meet­ing, one month ahead of schedule, make up a commit­tee that monitors compliance, or really lack of complianee, with OPEC's assigned produe­tion levels. 
Indonesia's oil minister, Ida Bagus Sudjana, who serves as the OPEC president, was also expected to attend. 
Sharp divisions in the group became apparent last week, when officials in Venezuela, the biggest quota-buster in OPEC, aecused Saudi Arabia of pumping way too much. 
Analysts don't buy it, and the Saudis privately denied it, but the unusually nasty exchange shows that OPEC will have a hard time if it aetually tries to regain control of the market by restraining output. 
OPEC members are Algeria, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Libya Kuwait, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Venezuela. 


INS swells with new officers 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 
Thanks to the growing national concern over immigra­tion, the nation now has more immigration officers authorized to carry a gun and make arrests than it has FBI agents. 
Led by a 31 pereent increase at the Immigration and Naturalization Service, the number of armed federal agents with arrest power rose to 74,500 by mid-1996, the Justice Department reported Sunday. 
That was about 6 percent higher than in 1993, the last time the Bureau of Justiee Statisties eonducted sueh a sur­vey. Sixteen federal agencies each emplo.y more than 500 armed agents with power to make arrests. 
Concern over illegal immigra­tion prompted the Clinton administration and Congress to increase the INS budget sharply. 
During the past three years, the agent foree of the INS grew faster than any other federal agency except the tiny Fish and Wildlife Service, whieh had a 40 percent increase to 869 agents. 
The INS is now the largest federal agent forcA, with more armed agents than eithnr the Bureau of Prisons or the FBI. 
Many of the 12.403 armed INS agents work for the Border Patrol, whose foree is heavily coneentrated along the Mexiean border. 


LASALLE BOOKSTORE 
Your source for the best in theological and philosophical books-we can special order any book you need! 
Winter Clearance Sale! 
30% OF{7 MANY TITLES 
DURING JANUARY 
THE LASALLE BOOKSTORE • 234-0003 237 N. Michigan St. (at LaSalle), downtown South Bend. Open 10-5, Monday-Friday 
Always 10% offfor ND:-SMCfaculty &students! 





''THE COUNCIL'' 
Notre Dame Council on International Business Development 
LL COUNCIL/RECRUITMENT MEETING 
TUESDAY, Jan. 27th 7:30pm JORDAN AUDITORIUM-COBA 
Find Out What It's All About .... 
INTERNATIONAL EXPERIENCE INTERNSHIPS &TEACHING OPPORTUNITIE REAL WORLD EXPERIENCE
< 


The World is Waiting 

Monday, January 26, 1998 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS 
Lewinsky will tell all in Clinton sex scandal 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Anxious to cut a deal for immunity, the lawyer for Monica Lewinsky said Sunday his 24-year-old client "will tell all that she knows" to Whitewater prosecutors. "The chips will fall as they may," he said. 
Attorney William Ginsburg said he has verbally indicated to investigators what Ms. Lewinsky will tell them in exchange for immunity from prosecution. 
"I will remain in Washington as long as it takes to see that the truth in every detail, wherever it may fall, comes out," Ginsburg said. 
Whitewater prosecutor Kenneth Starr was in his Washington office Sunday night, said Deborah Gershman, a spokeswoman for the office. 
Negotiations for a grant of absolute immunity for Ms. Lewinsky could be lengthy -but an alternative is available to Whitewater prosecutors. They could obtain a court order giving Ms. Lewinsky use immunity -a more limited form that would compel Ms. Lewinsky's grand jury testimony as early as Tuesday when the Whitewater grand jury is scheduled to moet in Washington. 
Under use immunity, Ms. Lewinsky's tes­timony could not be used against her. But she also would not have the blanket protec­tion from prosecution that Ginsburg seeks. 
Presidont Clinton talked this weekend with heavyweight advisers brought back to Washington to help him through the crisis brought on by the allegations of a sexual relationship with Ms. Lewinsky and att!~mpts at a cover-up. One of them, one­time Commerce Secretary Mickey Kantor, said his holp was lawyerly in nature. "I have my legal hat on, not my political hat," lw said. 
In the first hint of an eyewitness, ABC reported that the president and Ms. Lewinsky were caught in an intimate fmcounter in a private area of the White House in the spring of 1996, shortly before the White House intern was moved to a job 
234-6636 1-800-4 72-6714 
THE 9TH ANNUAL 
N 0 T R E DAME 




STUDENT 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 
JANUARY 23 
$2 ADMISSION SNITE MUSEUM 
PRESENTED BY THE 

DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE 
at the Pentagon. ABC cited several uniden­tified sources for its information. Starr's office declined comment on the ABC report. 
As news organizations followed up on the ABC story, former White House chief of staff Leon Panetta and former deputy Evelyn Lieberman took the unusual step of issuing a statement denying that either or both had been notified by any White House aide or Secret Service agent of having wit­nessed "certain sexual activities between the president and Ms. Monica Lewinsky." 
Regarding the ABC report, an eyewitness would provide important corroborating evi­dence for Ms. Lewinsky's account if she reverses her current denial of an affair with the president. In secretly recorded conversations, Ms. Lewinsky had said she­believed "nobody saw anything happen between us." 
'IWILL REMAIN IN wASHINGTON AS LONG AS IT TAKES TO SEE THAT THE TRUTH IN EVERY DETAIL, WHEREV­
ER IT MAY FALL, COMES OUT.' 

WILLIAM GINSBURG, 
MoNICA LEWINSKY's ArroRNEY 
Ginsburg said the ABC report, if true, will take some of the pressure off his client by making her testimony less important. Such a development would let Starr expend his "bullets on somebody else," said Ginsburg. 
"We understand that both Mr. Panetta and Ms. Lieberman categorically deny that either of them were given any verbal or other reports concerning, or witnessed, any sexual or intimate encounter," the White House said. 
Lieberman, who is expected to be sub­poenaed to appear before the Whitewater grand jury, moved Ms. Lewinsky out of the White House in the spring of 1996. 
"Monica Lewinsky was not transferred because of a physical incident," according to a statement on behalf of Lieberman. "It simply could not be further from the truth." 
At the White House, the first couple tried to maintain an air of normalcy, attending services at Foundry United Methodist Church as usual. Clinton rehearsed his State of the Union speech and planned to watch the Super Bowl with family and the Rev. Jesse Jackson. 
Senior administration officials and long­time Clinton friends, including two who talked to him this weekend, said the presi­dent was shocked and depressed in the first hours of the controversy but has bounced back defiant. 
"One thing that isn't going on and that's discussions about any resignation," said Rahm Emanuel, a top White House adviser. 
House Judiciary Committee chairman Henry Hyde spoke cautiously about the possibility of an impeachment inquiry. 
"Nothing much will happen until the Democrats decide something should hap­pen," said Hyde, R-Ill. 
In a whirlwind of appearances on NBC, ABC and CBS. Ginsburg went out of his way to praise Starr and his staff, calling them "excellent people" with whom talks have been cordial. 
"I don't approve of some of their tactics," but "I have nothing but the highest praise for their professionalism and their atti­tude," Ginsburg said. 
"We are dying to tell the story, but we cannot. We are frozen in place" until his client gets total immunity, Ginsburg said. Ms. Lewinsky has denied having a sexual relationship with Clinton in an affidavit in the Paula Jones sexual harassment suit. 
Clinton loyalists attacked Starr for having former White House staffer Linda Tripp wired so that she could secretly record a conversation with Ms. Lewinsky. 
Political consultant Paul Begala criticized Starr for "firing off subpoenas like an Uzi," a reference to the impending grand jury questioning faced as early as Tuesday by longtime Clinton confidant Vernon Jordan and other witnesses. 
~AJJTHA AND JILL ARE FIMALL~ C:IJOWIMC: UPf! 
·]]]~[;)~ 1)J]ij'1]g 
Love, You Know Who 


~NCUM ' BAHAMAS 
l.4 HOURS OF FREE DRII-~KS! 
7 nights from $299! Includes RT air. hotel. 241 hours of free drinks and weekly party schedule of spring break events! Organize 15 fretnds and EARN A FREE TRIPI 

'i*~MtliiA• 
~pace lllnibldl ca11 -n 
~:.@}@@):.@}2@3:.@~~~ 
t:.OC~h,_ kultl. ._llfi.MAOUU ~,....,._.u~n 
Bed 'N Breakfast Registry Try the Option 
A "Home Away from Home!" 
FB-Grad-Fr. Or.-JPW 
219-291-7153 

page 8 The Observer • NEWS Monday, January 26, 1998 

Bronco fans get out of hand after win 
Associated Press 

DENVEH 
Denver Broncos' fans poured into the streets to cdebrate their team's Super Bowl win Sunday night, and police in riot gear used tear gas to break up the rowdy crowds. 
The trendy Lower Downtown district turned into a sea of orange and blue jerseys. banners and signs as the clock ticked down to victory at Qualcomm Stadium in San Diego. 
Police Sgt. Dennis Cribari said several peoplo had been arrested for lighting or creating a disturbance. lie estimated about I 0.000 people ralliod downtown for about three hours al'ter the game ended. 
Bonfires burned in Larimer Square, a center of downtown, and several young men hung from utility wires for several minutns near a Broncos banner before falling into the crowd. 
Officers wearing masks threw tear gas as people hurled bottles at police horses in the Larimer Square area. where two cars wore overturned by the crowd. One mounted police officer and his horse fell to the pavement while chasing a young reveler. 

"What are the cops going to do when this place turns into L.A.? This is Denver. This is minor," he said. "What are they going to do when they have an actual riot?" 
After suffering through four Super Bowl losses, three during the John Elway era, fans were ready to cele­brate. 
Kevin Nicoletti, 21, wearing Elway's 
G 0 
police spray. 

Later, police used tear gas and sprays to clear the crowd, mostly people in their teens and 20s. Many revelers seemed dazed by the gas, and the smell permeated over several blocks. 
Scott Rahne said he was hit with a 

Airline pilots seek to limit U.S. flight zones 
Associated Press 
TOKYO 

Airline pilot Mikio llayashida was flying an Airbus 300 from Tokyo to Japan's northern airport of Aomori two years ago when two blue dots suddenly popped up on his collision alert system. 
The blips were American F-16 jet lighters, and if they kept coming he would have to make a dire decision: descend or climb -mpidly-and possibly injure some passengers in the process. 
Fortunatdy, the warplanes veered off before that was neces­sary. 
But commereial pilots like Hayashida are now sounding the alarm over what they consider a high frequency of dangerously dose meetings with U.S. warplanes based in Japan. 
"I kept staring at the indicator, trying to calm down," I layashida recalled in an interview just outside Tokyo's domestic airport. "I was afraid the jets might come really close." 
In early February, a union representing 4,000 Japanese civilian pilots plans to petition the Japanese and U.S. governments to limit American military flight paths and tighten restrictions on the kinds of training missions. 
U.S. planes are exempt from domestic rules that require Japanese warplanes to conduct low-altitude training away from civil aviation routes and limit them to a narrow corridor when !lying over land. The Americans can legally train at very low alti­tudes ov1~r populated areas and fly without following instructions from commercial control towers. 
Until recently, concerns over U.S. military activities were large­ly limited to tho southern island of Okinawa, where most American bases arn located. and to neighborhoods near U.S. bases on the Japanese home islands. 
Concern is spreading. however, because of the airline pilots' complaints of dose calls and increasingly vocal protests by local governments and civil activist groups about low altitude training over populated areas. 
Hesidents in the mountains of Hiroshima Prefecture say U.S. military jots have been buzzing their roofs since 1994 even though there are no American military bases in the state. 
Villagers complain of broken windows and increased anxiety. They say their eows are producing less milk and their babies arn morn cranky. "Once I went up the hill to take pictures of the jet, and I was struck by its thundering noise," said Mamoru Kanda, an official 

Zimbabwe • England • Italy Hong Kong • Spain • France 
• 
Wide-ranging courses 

• 
lnternsltips & sen;ice-learning 

• 
Business programs in 3 countries 

• 
Organized study-travel 

• 
Grants, scholarships, loans 

• 
Placement in foreign universities 


Syracuse University 119 Euclid Avenue Syracnse, NY 13244 800-235·3472 suabroad@syr.edu http://samweb.syr.edu/dipa 
number 7 jersey, n,1n from the Sports Column bar and fell to the ground, screaming with joy and waving a team banner. 
"Oh, when I was a kid, I cried every time they lost. I've been dreaming about this for 21 years," he said. 
Minutes after the win, the Broncos announced plans for a victory parade Tuesday in downtown Denver. 
Scott Harris and his friends arrived at their favorite sports bar seven hours before the Super Bowl kickoff and 1 1/2 hours before the bar even opened Sunday. 
They got the last seats in the house. 
"We're going to sit and eat and have a few drinks and get into the fever," Harris said as he bought a Super Bowl T-shirt at an outside kiosk near the Sports Column tavern. 
City officials hoped for a controlled celebration. Shopkeepers took preven­tive measures, such as locking up mov­able trash cans and chairs. 
They learned their lesson two years ago after the Colorado Avalanche won hockey's Stanley Cup. A disorderly crowd threw rocks and bottles, set small fires and. caused some property damage after the Avalanche won. 
in Geihoku, a town believed to lie along one of the low-altitude flight paths used by U.S. planes. "It seemed as if the jet was going to hit me." 
Yoichi Endo, a city council member in Fussa, a town near an American air base, said at least 1,000 low-altitude flights by U.S. warplanes were monitored across Japan in 1996. 
The U.S. military defends low altitude training as necessary and says safety precautions are followed. 
"These are routine flight operations which have been going on for years," said Jon Nylander, spokesman for U.S. Navy forces in Japan. 
He acknowledged there are seven flight paths used for low-alti­tude missions over Japan but refused to identify the locations or give the number of such flights. 
Domestic aviation officials say low-altitude flying and close calls between civil aircraft and military jets are separate issues. But they say measures should be urgently taken to improve safety. 
Since Jan. 1. 1996, there have been 28 instances in which colli­sion avoidance systems on civilian aircraft have been activated in response to approaching U.S. F-16s flying over Japan. 
Cairo lawyer 
blames queen 
for Di's death 
Associated Press 

CAIRO. Egypt 
A court has postponed a Cairo lawyer's lawsuit against Queen Elizabeth II that claims she is responsible for the death of Princess Diana and her Egyptian boyfriend, Dodi Fayed. 
The lawyer, Nabih ei-Habishi, said he was told tho queen hadn't been notified of the postponement, the second since the case began Dec. 7. In order for the suit to go forward, lawyers on both sides must be alerted. 
"I was ready and they were not. I yelled at the people in the court and said they should be penalized." he said. 
The case stems from rumors, widely circulated in the Arab world,that British intelligence arranged the Princess of Wales' car crash because the royal family did not want the mother of a future king to marry a Muslim. 
El-Habishi is asking for the equiv­alent of $165,000 for "every Muslim In every part of the world." 
''As a Muslim, this incident has caused me a lot of psychological and moral damage," ei·Habishi said in an earlier interview. 
Proceedings resume March 29, he said. 
El-Habishi and several other Egyptian lawyers have on other occasions sued world leaders and international organizations in he name of Islam, or in the name of all Arabs. 
The cases were dismissed. 

El-Habishi is currently trying to extract compensation from the Israeli government for Egyptians killed in the 1956 and 1967Arab­lsraeli Wars. 
Diana and Fayed were killed in an Aug. 31 car crash in a Paris tunnel. 


Cam_pus Ministry Events 

OFFICE OF CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hesburgh Library 631-7800 112 Badin Hall 631-5242 Basilica Offices 631-8463 Web site: www.nd.edu./-rninistryI 
Monday-Friday, January 26-20 Sign-up for NDE #50 (Feb.27-March 1) 
Tuesday, January 27 Campus Bible Study 
Of special interest: 
EMMAUS 
Are you interested in joining a scripture/faith shar­
ing group in your residence hall? Discover a new way to be part of a community to enrich your faith. Stop in to Campus Ministry for information or con­tact Jim Lies, esc, John or Sylvia Dillon, Kate Barrett 
or Sarah Granger at 631-5242. 
Contemporary Choir Rehearsals on Wednesdays, 7:00-8:00 pm at Keenan­Stanford Chapel. For information, call Karen 






VIEWPOINT 

Monday, January 26, 1998 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Hci~ler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Editor .........................Heather Cocks Advertising Manager.............................Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ...................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager .............. Jennifer Breslow Sports Editor .................................Mike Day Production Manager ........................ Mark DeBoy Accent Editor.......................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ..Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ....................... Lori Allen Controller........................................... Kyle Carlin Photo Editor .......................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students ofthe Univcrsicy ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. 1r does nor necessarily reflect rhc policies of the administration ofeither insrirurion. The n,ews is reponed as accurately and objectively ao; possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Ediror, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, lerrers and lnside Columns present rhe views of the authors, and nor neces­sarily d10se ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and ro all reader~. The free expression of varying opinions rhrough.(e[[ers is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor  631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
NC'w~/Phoro  631-5323  Sptems  631-8839  
Sporrs  631-4543  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accent/Saint Marv's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Editor/Viewpoint  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint.! @nd.edu  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  

• OUT OF THE TWILIGHT 
Where Were You When The Children Died? 

"It happened when I read a profound two-page essay by Hichard Selzer titled, "What I Saw at the Abortion" in thP .January 1976 Esquire. Written in almost purple prose, it reminded me how language ean change us forever. 

Brandon Williams 
i\ pro-abortionist, Selzer had arranged to witness an abortion as rnsearch. But here's what he saw as the abortionist inserted the saline solu­tion: the needle jerked like a fishing line being tugged by a sunfish, then the motion grew fainter and fainter until, finally, it quit. Selzer wrote that he roalized whatever was in there very much wanted to stay alive, and, for him, it answered the question of whether that is a live human or just a blob of tissue. II is description of the event was so compelling that, for me, it answered the question of when life begins." 
This is how Frederica Mathewes­Green describes her conversion from the pro-choice position in 1976, a short three years after Hoe v. Wade. Now, after 25 years of saline, vacuums and needles our nation still has not fol­lowed suit. Thousands of unborn chil­dren are still engaging in the futile struggle described above, faced with a civil code that declares them unworthy of life. 
That's right, Hoc v. Wade has now been around for 25 years. In light of this fact and the March for Life that took place last week I thought it appro­priate to write a column on the endur­ing issue. I must confess, at first I wanted to write about something else. 
I thought, "There have already been so many columns on this issue. Hell, I've even written a few of them. Why add one more?" It's true. The issue of abortion has been debated back and forth now for 25 years! Only God knows how many words have been written and spoken on the subject. It's almost starting to seem that people are tired of the issue itself. The March for Life was barely covered by the media, especially considering the immense turnout. I can't count how many times I have recently heard people proclaim, with a strong measure of frustration, "Let's not talk about abortion. No one is going to change anyone's mind any­way." But minds must change. The issue must stay on the forefront. Pro­lifers must remember why they are fighting. That is what I want to show in this column. I want to remind you what we are fighting for. 
What has happened in the 25 years since Roe v. Wade, besides people for­mulating various philosophical argu­ments and catchy slogans to try to con­vince each other, legislators and a schizophrenic American public that their side is right? Marlin Maddoux wrote an essay on this very subject -I will only relate a few of the facts she brings to the forefront. 
Since Roe v. Wade in 1973, 36 mil­lion unborn children have been abort­ed. To achieve the same mortality rate in the land of the born the entire popu­lations of Nevada, Utah, Colorado, Kansas, Missouri, Indiana, Nebraska, Wyoming, Idaho, Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota and Minnesota would have to be methodically mur­dered over the next 25 years. Every day almost 6,400 children are aborted. That works out to nearly one child 

-every 20 seconds. So, count to 20. Then count to 20 again. Each time you finish counting another child has lost their convulsing struggle to survive a doctor's assault. 
So what has happened in the last 25 years? Thirty-six million innocent children have suffered and died. They 

are 36 million human-beings just like 
you and me. Who knows how many 
of them would have been at 
Notre Dame right now, filled 
to the brim with dreams 
of their future or of a 
better world? Who 
knows how many of 
them might have 
changed this 
world? Thirty-six 
million children 
have been 
robbed of that 
chance in the 
last 25 years. History has a 
funny way of 
putting things 
into perspec­
tive. Recently, the pro-choice position seems to have shifted somewhat. Less people are making 
the claim 
that the unborn child is not a human life. More and more are sim­ply using a sort of justifiable­homicide argu­ment. The child's death is somehow warranted. because the child is being killed for an invaluable right to personal auton­omy. I won't get into the flawed philosophical under­pinnings for such a position. Instead I will pose the following question: what if, as every pro-lifer hopes, history comes out on the side of the unborn? What if history decides 
that the child's right to life must be respected above all else, in the same way that those of us who are spared enjoy? How will history look at 
you? How will your descen­dants see their ancestry? Will you be one who 
fought your heart out 
for what you knew was right? Or will you be one of those poor, timid souls who, 
faced with grave injustice, merely stared compla­cently, thereby 
incurring blame on yourself? Thirty-six 
million human being's songs will never be sung, poetry will never be written, touch­downs will never be scored, victo­ries will never be won, laugh­ter will never 
be heard. 
What will histo­ry say you were doing when the 
children died? 
Brandon Williams is a junior history and philoso­phy major. His col­
umn appears every other Monday. The views expressed in 
this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

• 000NESBURV GARRY TRUDEAU 
• £lUOTE OF THE DAY 

-~--~------~--~-~~ -~--­

VIEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, January 26, 1998 
• JEOI MIND TRICKS 
• DIGGING DEEPER 
Dishonesty, Immorality Associated with Clinton 
Kevin Patrick 
If Bill Clinton had a soul, hn'd be danger­ous. lin's lied to his wife, he's lind to his family, he's lied to thn pnople of Arkansas, and he's lied to the American people. Why should we believe anything he or his spin doctors have to say about his snxual (the world's definition, no.t Clinton's) allitir with a thnn 21-year-old intnrn. lin has a daughter who is only 19! 
As this "snafu" (another Clinton-spin lie) unfillds I can't lwlp but think of the Harrison Ford line in "Presumed Innocent" when speaking of a guilty defendant: "You lie to your attorney, you lie to the cops, you lie to the judgn. you lie to the jury, you lie to any­one who will listen in hopes of creating enough doubt so they can't convict you." That is exactly what Clinton is doing and has done throughout his political career-and it has worked. llownver, with the current jury of thn American p1mple, the tide is turning. 
Through the noisn of Super Bowl style nwdia coverage of a National Enquirer/liard Copy type story. thnre are some emerging issues bmwath the surface: 
I) .Jon lsuzu Cometh 

In the l!JHOs, the carmaker, lsuzu, ran a series of ads where their apparent spokesman ("Joe lsuzu") would make out­landish statements such as "this vehicle goes :mo mph." Flashing on the screen in front of him would be a marquee in capital letters: "liE'S LYING." Everytime I see Bill Clinton make a statement r keep waiting for that ".Joe Isuzu" marquee to start flashing on the scrnnn. The Gnnifer Flowers vindication shows Clinton's distaste for the idea of forth­rightness and trust. Six years ago "60 Minutes" had a special after the Super Bowl where Clinton eoyly denied a 12-year alTair with Flowers. What has he now admitted he was denying? That it was 12 years, not that he had an all"air with her. This is a man who has exhibited time and again that he cannot be taken at his word. Which leaves his "Those allegations are false" statement ring­ing hallow and not believable. 
2) "Patriotism -the last refuge of a seoundrnl." When Clinton makes statements like: "I just want to get baek to doing the business of the American people," or "It's time to put this a<>ide and let the White House get back to work," I find him pathetic. If Bill Clinton was doing the work of the American people, he would not be in this mess. And in his bizarre world of not-eom­monly-aceepted definitions; if letting the White House get back to work means having sex with 21-year-old interns, maybe we should barrage them with time consuming press conferences. 
3) Morality? We don't need no stinking morality. In all of this criminal and political maneuvering, a simple concept is being lost: Monica Lewinsky is a victim here. Every year thousands of kids flock to Washington, D.C. to work in politics and serve the public. The prestige of the position compensates for the substandard pay (or in Ms. Lewinsky's case work for free). The interns are idealistic and impressionable. The President of the United States abused his position and had sex with one of his intf!rns. Bill Clinton is 51 years old 
and had a relationship with 
a then 21-year-old intern. I 
am 27 years old and would 
have some difficulty dating 
a 21-year-old (yea, as if age 
is the reason rhave no 

dates). What kind of man, 
husband, or father is he? 
Using the presidency to 

woo interns is disgusting. 
This president has no 

moral authority and from 
all indications has no morals either. That is a scary thought. 
4) My hyp01:racy knows no bounds. 

Hecmi.tly it came to light that a man in high political office used the power and prestige granted to him by the voters to feed his own rapacious sexual appetites. lie never threat­ened to fire anyone, he didn't spike their drink, and he didn't physically threaten any of his conquests ..Instead he unscrupulously cashed in on his position and authority, com­porting himself in a sleazy and unseemly manner that tarnished his office and insulted women. Predictably, and justly, the National Organization of Women launched a nation­wide campaign, attacking him for the arro­gant, mysoganistie power monger that he was. 
Of course, his name was Bob Packwood, 
and he was a Republican. 

Where are those same women who gave him and Clarence Thomas that indelible scarlet letter for far less than our current president? 
5) Those are the facts, and they are undis­puted; Clinton's spin control has been and will continue to be in overdrive. I wish Kevin Bacon were the CNN anchor and every day he would repeat his opening statement from "A Few Good Men." They're gonna try and pull otr a magic act here. They're gonna try a little misdirection, astonish you with stories of conspiracies and dazzle you with oflicial sounding terms like right-wing agenda. They might even try to cut into a few inde­pendent counsels for you. They'll have no evidence mind you, but it's gonna be enter­taining. But when we get to the end, all of the magic in the world will not have been able to deter your attention from the fact that this was a 21-year-old intern; they had sex; Clinton lied about it, and then tried to influence others to lie as well. Those are the facts, and they are undisputed. 
Now that has yet to be proven, but despite the attacks and spin, the White House refus­es to address those issues. They claim they wait to make any statements for fear of being contradicted as they were in their campaign finance scandals. What is there to fear about being contradicted on statements like: "I never had any physical relationship with Monica Lewinsky," or "l, nor anyone l know of, has attempted to influence any wit­ness to perjure themself." 
Maybe those statements just aren't true. 
Kevin Patrick is a third year JDIMBA stu­dent. He can be found working on his web­page or e-mailing halfthe general popula­tion. You can e-mail him at kevin. d. patrick.16@nd. edu. His column appears every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Our Nations Holocaust: Reflecting After the March 
Last Thursday, approximately 150 the evening news of anothnr mothnr Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­who dumpnd her newborn in the dents traveled by bus to Washington. trash, or of a nanny who shakes an 
D.C. to protest the Supreme Court's infant to dnath. and then is released decision to by a jury now legalize abor-numbed to the tion. I was dignity and among them. sacredness of 
Since the Roe human lifil. We


Aaron
vs. Wade case have scientists 25 years ago, expnrimenting there have been on aborted more than 35 eorpsns (hnre at

Kheriaty
million clinical Notre Dame?); abortions in the we have scien­United States. tists-stillmore 
Millions more 
abortions have been procured by 
abortifacient drugs, such as the 
"morning after" pill. Today. one in 
three pregnancies ends in an abor­
tion. 
The surgical procedure involves one of four common methods. In the first, saline solution is injected into the womb, so as to poison the pre-born child, which is then removed. In the second, the abortionist reaches into the womb with clamps and other instruments to remove the pre-born child limb by limb. Another proce­dure involves using a vacuum hose 30 times more powerful than a house­hold vacuum to suck the living fetus out of the womb. In late term abor­tions, referred to as "partial birth abortions," the child is partially deliv­ered, so that only his or her head remains in the mother's womb. Scissors are inserted into the back of the child's skull and opened to create a hole, into whieh a vacuum hose is · inserted, which then suctions the child's brains out and collapses the head. No anesthetic is administered to the pre-born child in any of these procedures. 
In contrast to these clinical proce­dures, early testing reveals that the new RU-486 abortion pill is an even more personal experience. In this sort of abortion, the mother feels the passing of the fetal sac, and has to dispose of it herself. Because of this, she must directly and consciously facn the result of her choice. Newsweek reported anecdotal results of early testing in 1995: "Oh, it hurts," said a 30-year-old mother of three. After delivery, she calls her husband into the bathroom to view the fist sized fetal sac at the bottom of the toilet. "!She] can see the curled up fetus ... Its hands are curled into tiny lists." "It's sad. It's sad," she mourns. Another young woman followed by Newsweek waited nine days after tak­ing the pill before the fetus was expelled while she was taking a show­er. She "scoops it up, wraps it care­fully in toilet paper" and flushes it down the toilet. Unlike surgical abor­tion, this new method brings the mother face to face with the loss of a life, and the consequences of her choice. rt is clear that in the HU-486 abortion, as in all other forms of abortion, neither the mother nor the child walks away unscathed. 
How is it that the sacred bond which exists between a mother and her child has been so savagely shat­tered? Why are so many so blind to the reality of our culture of death? Someday, will our nation mourn this holocaust the way it mourns the slaughter of the Jews in Nazi death camps, or the depersonalization of African slaves prior to the Civil War? Or will we continue the downward spiral, aborting ourselves out of exis­tence? 
The widespread practice of abortion has desensitized us. The destruction of human life at one end has led to the current push to destroy it at the other end. Hence, we face the immi­nent reality of physicians killing elderly patients for utility's sake. Violence toward children in the womb has led toward violence outside the womb. lt is not uncommon to hear on mad-attmnpt­
ing to elone human beings. Wlwn~ 
will it end? Will it end at all? 
The following are some scerws from 
the Marth for Lifn. It was a gath1~ring 
of ordinary people, who still believe 
that we have a government "by the 
people, of the people, and for tlw peo­
ple" (as opposed to today's notion of a 
government "by the experts, of the 
experts, and for the experts"). 
llundreds of thousands came to 
Washington, the young and tho old. 
There were countless women carry­
ing children in their arms. An HO­
year-old man in a whit!~ lab coat 
stood passing out photocopies of the 
llippocratic oath -the anei11nt basis 
on which m1~dicine rests. It stati!S 
that a doctor must work to prns1~rve 
life, not takn it. In red lnttnrs, the 
back of his coat read: "For all thn doc­
tors that I taught" who now pnrfonn 
abortions. This is my pnnance." 
The pnople gathered in front of the 
White llouse. rallind, and mardwd 
slowly to the Suprmnn Court. It was a 
mov11ment of peacP: it was a move­
ment of sorrow; it was a movmnent of 
prayer. One witnessed an endless 
trail of citizens speaking out lin· thos1~ 
who have no voice. ThosP who 
protested love their country, tlwy love 
their family, they love all people­
born and pm-born, created in the 
image and likeness of God. 
Even those who do not participate 
acknowlndge the movenwnt to bn one 
of peace. The Park Service, which 
deans up afterwards, notes that thn 
pro-lifers leave less trash than tlw 
environmentalists who gather fin· 
Earth Day. Obsnrvnrs watching the 
march were morn likely to hear 
hymns being sung than militant 
chants being shoutnd. Tunes of 
"Amazing Grace," or "Haillloly 
Queen" echoed in the streets of 
Washington. 
Countless signs and banners being carried spoke for tim cause: "Stop partial birth abortion." "The pro-lifil movement: Ilere until no more chil­dren die, no more women cry." "Mr. President, do you feel their pain?'' A group of 500 students brought up thn rear of the march, walking in silence and carrying tiny collins on their shoulders. 
We are the most materially wealthy nation on earth, yet are perhaps one of the most spiritually poor. As Mother Teresa pointl!d out, "It is a poverty to decide that a child must die in order for you to live as you wish." We push the reality of abortion out of sight, hoping that this will keep it out of mind. Yet even those who support abortion are -by virtue of the fact that they are alive -forced to thank God that their mother was pro-life. 
Fourteen hundred children have died in abortion chambers each day. day after day, since Jan. 22, 1973. Seven hundred thirty children will die between noon and 1 p.m. this day. 
Lord, have mercy on us. Notre Dame, our Mother, pray for us. 
Aaron Kheriaty is a junior pre-pro­fessional and philosophy major. /lis column appears every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 



Monday, January 26, 1998 page 11 



Titanic will sail away with Oscars 
a  sneak  preview  of  the  
By JOE LENISKI Accent Movie Criric  only seen but lived, felt, and touched. These movies and their principal parts  
shine through the glitz, glamour, seedy  

W
hat ever happened to seri­controversies and tell-tale tragedies that ous competition? The Hollywood has become famous for creat­Chicago Bulls and the ing since its inception. Here are those immortal Michael Jordan rare films and motion-picture elements have won the NBA championship like 37 that deserve recognition over the last times in a row. The once spectacular year of cinema: and thoroughly entertaining Super Bowl SCREENPLAYS -Before the shots are has been so one-sided lately that I leave calculated and storyboarded, before the during the game and come back to see actors are given their targets, before those multi-million dollar commercials. studios put up millions upon millions to Pete Sampras has been the number one hire the necessary components, every tennis player on the globe since Tiffany film starts as a spark in the mind of a was still baying on the local radio sta­writer and a scribbled sentence or two. tions. And in those "USA verses THE The Best Screenplay award and the Best WORLD" ice-skating competitions, have Picture award normally go hand in you over soon the United States lose? hand, but there are legitimate con­"Americans love a winner, and will not tenders out there that may not have toleratn a loser." George C. Scott deliv­been great films but were stupendous on ered these striking words almost 30 paper. The obvious choices are "L.A. years ago, and their moaning has per­Confidential," "As Good As It Gets," and meated tho very fabric of our culture. "Titanic," which was all the more 
In this era of decadence and dynasty, impressive considering its scribe was it is with opulence that we turn our also director and producer. But don't shortly-livnd attention spans to another sell out "Good Will Hunting," the warm­spectacle of juggernaut-domination: the edy penned by rookie-Romeos Matt Academy Awards. So man the lifeboats Damon and Ben Affleck who surprised once again, for the concept of equal everyone when they took home the competition will be cast overboard as Golden Globe award for writing. one colossal film will sweep like a wave BEST SCREENPLAY THAT WON'T over the opposing films and voraciously WIN -Kevin Smith's wildly entertain­consume every gold-statuette in its path. ing and witty "Chasing Amy." Any 
In a year that brought us romping movie packed with comic books, les­dinosaurs. face-transplants, planes filled bians. and Silent Bob monologues with thn deadliest convicts on the planet, deserves at least a left-field chance of sunglass-wearing super-secret govern­taking the statuette. ment agents and swinging, shagadelic­MOTION PICTURE SCORE/SONG ­SPcn~t agents (yeah, baby!). gigantic This is one of those fuzzy categories that man-Paling bugs, red-headed wedding ultimately relies on the success of the smashers, vine-swinging jungle men and film to sell soundtracks. PerenniaL the resurrection of the greatest space favorite John Williams beautifully saga known to man (sniff ... ). we have scored "Amistad," but has done much discernf~d the tinsel from the trash and more memorable work. "Anastasia" snlectnd th!~ most acclaimed and note­was the closest thing to a musical this worthy films, dirnctnrs, actors and year, and it is not uncommon for the actressns from 1997 for Oscar consider­jury to bestow this award on animated ations. feature films. But this piece is not from 
This procnss is not scientific; there is Disney, and we all know the iron-clad no clear method for determining the grip that Michael Eisner has on the quality of a film. The closest indicator Oscars will not allow "Anastasia" to we have is that euphoric blast that emerge victorious. This bald-guy should sweeps over the moviegoer as he/she go to James Horner's "Titanic" score, nxits through the steel doors into the fueled by an unforgettable love theme, over-exposr.d reality beyond after view­Celine Dion's "My Heart Will Go On" and ing a truly magnificently-made movie. almost 400 million in ticket sales world You won't find it with "Spawn" or wide. "Double Team" or "Spice World." These BEST SCORE THAT WON'T WIN ­movies offr.r only a temporary escape Alan Silvestri's "Contact." from this inane existence, a slight BEST ACTORS and BEST ACTRESSES reprir.ve during which participants are -My heart (and my vote) will always go fully aware of the mirage of light playing with Jack Nicholson whenever he is before their eyes. The great film manip­nominated for any type of award, ulates illusion and consciousness and because whenever I see him on screen molds them into one entity, not only in the back of my mind I still see a fiery. blurring the lines between fantasy and iron-willed marine shouting savagely reality but removing them completely, "You can't handle the truth!" Alrigllt. manifesting an experience that is not maybe not in "Mars Attacks," but his 
I. Titanic 
2. 
Spice World 

3. 
Good Will Hunting 

4. 
As Good As It Gets 

5. 
Fallen 

6. 
Wag the Dog 

7. 
Hard Rain 

8. 
Half-Baked 

9. 
Phantoms I0. Tomorrow Never Dies 


Source: AP 
1998 academy awards 

ever-so irritating character in "As Good As It Gets" displays his amazing range and precision. Turning in memorable performances elsewhere are co-star Greg Kinnear, Leonardo DiCaprio for some boat movie, Djimon Hounsou for his savage intensity and Anthony 
Hopkins (who deserves the Supporting nod) in "Amistad," and the easy ridin' Peter Fonda who took home the Golden Globe for Best Actor in a Drama. Veterans Jodi Foster, Helen Hunt and Kim Basinger all hunt for the Best Actress award, but young English pretty Kate Winslet and Judi Dench, who most people know as "M" from Bond flicks, seek to steal the thunder and she>ck the popular opinion. 
BEST ACTOR WHO WON'T WIN ­Guy Pearce from "L.A. Confidential." BEST ACTRESS WHO WON'T WIN ­Joey Lauren Adams in "Chasing Amy." 
BEST DIRECTORS and BEST PIC­TURES -Another popular paring at the Oscar shows. these awards honor the culmination of talent, skill, technical prowess, delivery, and visual impact that the director brings to a film, and the film brings to the screen. The five best films this year, and coincidentally their directors, were the epitome of cin­ematic splendor. "Good Will Hunting," helmed by Gus Van Sant Jr., blended fresh, raw talent with old and a superior script to achieve year-end accolades. Mogul Steven Spielberg brought the story of "Amistad" to the screen, a great film driven by acting but cheated by the memory of the incomparable "Schindler's List." Third-place goes to James L. Brooks and "As Good As It Gets," the saucy comedy/drama which took film-storytelling down a notch and told a tale using real characters and real plotline. Runner-up goes to the spectac­ular "L.A. Confidential" and young director Curtis Hanson, who's ability to invoke the film noir and accent it with 
extra doses of corruption, eroticism. betrayal and loyalty provided the audi­ence the opportunity to delve into the shadowy recesses of 40s Los Angeles. But the most superior movie experience of the year, which should also win awards for Costume Design, Visual Effects, Cinematography, and Art Direction, was the epic sea-disaster film "Titanic," by her captain, James Cameron, who will ride full-ahead with the bald guy for Best Direction. It took two movie studios to put up the over $200 million to produce this master­piece, but every penny was well spent. This film is flawless, ushering the viewer aboard the doomed vessel to revel in its maiden glory, plunge with its death­throws into the icy grip of the ocean, and live through the triumph and tragedy of the love between Rose and Jack, the moving and powerful center­piece of this saga. When I walked out of "Titanic," I was hollowed out from the inside, unable and unwilling to tear myself away from the human drama I just lived through and experienced. Very rarely does a film come along that has this overwhelming effect on the viewer, but when it does, immerse your­self in it, forget school or friends or money, shed the dampening cloak of reality, and swim in the ocean of dreams that unfolds before your eyes. 

I. Face/Off 
2. 
Con Air 

3. 
My Best Friend's Wedding 

4. 
Contact 

5. 
Conspiracy Theory 

6. 
Men In Black 

7. 
Spawn 

8. 
Austin Powers: International Man of Mystery 

9. 
Speed 2: Cruise Control I 0. Chasing Amy 


Source: Billboard Online 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, January 26, 1998 
• RECRUITING 

Davie's recruiting beginning to pay off 
By BETSY BAKER 
A<Sociart• Spom Edi10r 
It is highly unlikely that it was an intentional strategy on the part of Notre Dame head coach Bob Davin, but a 7-6 record this past season might have been the smartest recruiting move he has evnr made. 
Besides the fact that Davie is known as a successful rncruitnr, the obvious m~nd for improve­ment undnr Notn~ Damn's stan­dards might b1~ one of the key factors that has drawn 17 ver­bal ~~ommitments to the Irish thus far. 
With a week and a half ldt until the Feb. 4 signing day, the elass of 2002 is continuing to shape up as a top-live recruiting class. 
Some might argu11 that an undefeated team with the promise of a national champi­onship might be one of the biggPst ini~Pntives for blue-chip recruits. On the contrary. the pPrcPived opportunity to come in and make an immediate irnpad, coupled with one of the most heralded college football traditions in the country, remains the biggest draw for the incoming Irish freshmen class. 
Davin addt>d two more recruits to tlw already solid group of 15 verbal commit­ments last w1wkend, and he still has over a week to continue to make magic. 
Leading the class of 2002 is quarterback Arnaz Battle, a 6­foot-:~. 185-pound athlete from Shrr.vnport, La.. who commited to the Irish a little over a week after his Dnc. 5 visit. Battle has been sought after as one of the nation's top quarterback prospects, but what makes him unique is his versatility. 
After leading Byrd High School to a 9-2 record in the state's highest classification, Battle posted 66 7 yards rushing on I07 carries and 527 yards passing on 34 completions out of 76 attempts. Battle scored 10 touchdowns on tho ground and threw for live with live intercep­tions. And that was all in a year that his team had lost 23 seniors. 
Although Battle's passing sta­tistics arnn't ovnrwhelmingly impressive, many. including Byrd coach Alan Carter, feel it does not do him justice to judge him on passing stats alone. 
"People who have seen Arnaz in person or on tape understand he can throw the ball as well as any quarterback in the coun­try," Carter commented. "The scouts who come by say that most quarterbacks they recruit can eithnr throw but don't run well. or they run but can't throw well. Arnaz can do both." 
Battle will get a chance to at least throw when all-American wide receivers Javin Hunter and David Givens join him. Hunter, a Detroit native, and Givens, who hails from the same high school as former linebacker Bert Berry (Humble, Texas), both hover around 6-feet tall, but Givens at 220 pounds has an added 45 pounds on Hunter. The good thing for the Irish is that they both run a 4.4 second 40-yard dash. 
Joining the offensive front of the class of 2002 last Friday was USA Today's Ohio player of the year, Tony Fisher. Fisher, a 6-foot-1, 200-pound tailback, rushed for 2,130 yards on 189 carries last season and scored 40 touchdowns. Fisher will compete with Terrance Howard, a 6-foot-1, 183-pound speedster from Mt. Holly, N.J., in addition to the current plethora of talent at tailback such as Autry Denson, Clement Stokes, Tony Driver. Cooper Rego, and possi­bly Darcy Levy. 
Howard knows he will have to wait in line for a chance that may never come with the Irish as stacked as they are at tail­back, but he also knows that competing with players like Denson and Driver will help him improve. 
"Every major college is going to have a lot of backs," Howard said. ''I'd rather compete against the best to help make me better." 
One major hole for the Irish that could very well be filled by an incoming freshman is that of fullback. Although Jamie Spencer is still around, and Ken Barry could possible return for a fifth year, the Irish have land­ed Mike McNair, a 6-foot-2, 225-pound barrel from Mater 

DAVIE'S NEW fRESHMEN? 
These athletes have made oral commitments to Notre Dame and are likely to sign a letter of intent on February 4, becoming the class of 2002. 
AlfNAZ BATILE 08 Shreveport, LA RB Stow,OH RB Mt. Holly, NJ RB Santa Ana, CA RB Euclid, OH WR Humble, TX WR Birmingham, Ml TE Washington, DC K/P Granger, 1N Ol Murraysville, PA OL Tulsa, OK Ol Mesquite, TX Ol Dallas, TX OL New York, NY Dl Hadonfield, NJ DB Cincinnati, OH 
JEFFERSON DB Dallas, TX 


Dei High School in Santa Ana, Calif. McNair was a USA Today all-American selection who set a school record with his 2,671 yards and 33 touchdowns last season. McNair finished his career at Mater Dei with 4,112 total yards and 55 touchdowns. 
Another big hole for the Irish will be that left by the gradua­tion of Chris Clevenger, Mike Doughty, and Rick Kaczenski on the offensive line. Looking to fill that hole will be Jordan Black and Sean Mahan. The 6-foot-5, 255-pound Mahan is one of the top three players to come out of Oklahoma. and his 4.7 speed is one of the reasons for that. Black, at 6-foot-7, 300 pounds, has Doughy-like size and is con­sidered the top Dallas-area line­man. 
Defensively, the Irish lind the biggest area of need on the line. However, the pickings are slim for the Irish, and thus far, Davie has only come up with two recruits. Anthony Weaver, a 6­foot-4, 240-pound lineman out of New York, will most likely play rush linebacker with the potential to move to an end. Ryan Roberts, out of 1-Iadonfield, N.J., is also a potential line­backer. 
The Observer/Tom Roland 
Another possibility is moving offensive lineman recruit Gerald Morgan of Mnsquite, Texas, over to defense. At 6-foot-5, 265 pounds, Morgan is not the fastest prospect but is agile enough to go either way. 
"Coach Davie said he saw me as a tight end who could hnlp out at another position if need­ed," Morgan said. "Nebraska and UCLA recruited. me as an offensive tackle. I love defense. If I don't play tight end, I'd love to move to defense before trying the offensive line. If wn have a need, I'll fit it." 
In the defensive backfield, Davin landed his second defen­sive back last weekend in USA Today first team all-American Clifford Jefferson. Jefferson, a 6-foot, 185-pound cornnrback, had six interceptions, 52 tack­les, and two forced fumbles last season. 
The Irish are awaiting word from Carlos Pierre-Antoine, a 6­foot-3, 225-pound linebacker from Seattle whom defensive coordinator Greg Mattison visit­ed last Thursday. Also still lin­gering is tight end Frank Homero, who is expected to announce today, and tai lbaek Eddie Drummond. 
•NHL 


Devils best Montreal 
Associated Press 

MONTHEAL 
Lyle Odolein and Bobby Holik gave New Jersey a two-goal lead as the Devils beat the Montrnal Canadiens 3-1 Sunday and added to their lead in the Eastern Conferenee. 
Outstanding goaltending from Montreal's Andy Moog kept the seore dos1~ as the Devils outshot Montreal 41­20 and improved to 3-0 against the Canadiens this season. Mark Recchi pulled Montreal within a goal when he scored at 12:41 of the third period. 
With New Jersey leading 2-0 in the final period, K1·zystof Oliwa let a high pass drop loose in the slot, allowing Hecchi to score his 24th goal of the season. Brian Holston scored an empty-net goal with 20 sec­onds left. 
Odelein's point shot was detlected into the short side by Montreal defenseman Stephane Quintal, who was battling Holik for position in front of the net at 14:36 of the first period. 
Holik got his 22nd goal at 
16:28 of the second when his shot his a post and went in. 
The Devils (31-15-4) have a three-point lead over-idle Philadelphia in the Eastern Conference standings, hut the Flyers have played two fewer games. New Jersey, coming ofl' a 3-3 tie at the Rangers on Saturday, go to Edmonton, Calgary. Vancouver and Ottawa to complete a six-game road trip, their longest of the season. 
For the second straight day, the Canadiens were without two-thirds of' their top line as Saku Koivu sat out with a rib injury and Shayne Corson was side­lined with a hip tl(lxor. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day trom 8 a.m. 10 3 p.m. ar rhc Nor~e Dame office, 314 LaForrune and from 12 p.m. 10 3 p.m. ar 309 Haggar College Cenrer. Deadl1nc tor ncxr-day clas· 
sificds is 3p.m. All classifieds musr be prepaid. The charge is 3 cenrs per characrer per day, i~cluding all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for conrenr wirhour issuing refunds. 

Classifieds 

NOTICES  ILOST & FOUND I  ADVERTISING SALES INTERN· SHIP University Directories is hiring stu·  2 SEDAM HOUSE FOR RENT GRANGER-WASHER, DRYER, REFRIG & STOVE. $695 MONTH  ALAN JACKSON SALE 277-1659  TICKETS  FOR  & chandeliers rock. melissa tanner is still my hero.  
dents to sell yellow page advertis·  PLUS SECURITY  
"Don't Get Burned on Spring Break" Spring Break Packages are going  If anyone at Thurs. Job Fair picked up a long black Evan  ing for the official campus tete· phone directory this summer.  CALL BOB 232·6434  PERSONAL  No, John, it's NOT all about the benjamins.  
fast. Stop in at Anthony Travel's  Piccone woman's dress coat by  Commission based pay structure.  6 BDRM HOME. NEAR CAMPUS.  
new location and check out the best  mistake. call Melissa at 4·0897.  Training program. Excellent sales &  WASHER/DRYER SUMMER OR  Are you the biggest pimp to  Larry Hughes overrated? I think  
Spring Break vacations around.  marketing experience. Call 1·800·  FALL.272·6551  ever play the drums? Stomper  not!  
Don't take a chance with an  Lost: Gold and silver wristwatch.  743-5556 Ext. 143 or visit www.uni·  Bob is announcing open  
unkown agency or some 1·800 number. Limited space available. so book now! Anthony Travel, Inc. Lafortune Student Center 631·7080  Huge sentimental value. If found versitydirectories.com call Becky x4215. II FORRENTWANTED L-----------' WALK TO CAMPUS Need child care 30 hrs/wk. 2·5 BEDROOM HOMES  ROOM4RENT $128+util Share house w/ grad stu: Kitch, livrm, dinrm, bathrm. Good neighborhd 280-5274 FOR SALE  auditions for the remainder of the year. Call Matt @ 289·1168 or Andy@ x1136 don antonio­it's been a long time baby ... colleen  After a long and interesting trip. the don no longers feels the need to keep his quite. How can I hold it inside any longer? I'm back.... -don antonio Irish Connection Jan 30  
'"ACT NOW! LAST CHANCE TO  Must have transportation.  $195/PERSON  
RESERVE YOUR SPOT FOR  271-1935  232-2595  Compaq Notebook, 20 meg. RAM,  campus view is the place  I pushed you because I loved you  
SPRING BREAK. GROUP DIS·  Color monitor includes carrying  guys. I didn't realize you weren't  
COUNTS FOR 6 OR MORE.  Watch faculty member's two girls  FURNITURE for rent I sale  case, manual, etc.  andrea is still the champ  having fun.  
LEISURE TOURS HAS PACK·  from 12:30 to 5:30 three afternoons  call Dave @ 4·3006  Call Greg @288-2654  
AGES WITH DIRECT FLIGHT  a week. Spring break off and good  I know someone who is long wind·  All I want is an honest week's pay  
FROM SOUTH BEND TO SOUTH  pay. Piano player a plus. Must  4 or 5 bedrm furnished house, wid,  Cannon Bubblejet 200e, new car·  ed. do you?  for an honest day's work.  
PADRE ISLAND. 1·800-838-8203.  have transportation. Call 277-7071.  sand volleyball, 119 N. St. Peter,  !ridge, $90obo. Italian drafting table,  
WWW.LEISURETOURS.COM  233·9947  $80, adj. drfting chair, $85. Chris  congradulations to the broncos!  What is honestly really? What is  
631·9795.  even though I am a staunch pack·  truth? Why am I here.  
Earn money with penny stocks!  Want to work in a coffeehouse?  Furn. 1 t:drm apt., $400/mo, room.  ers fan, you played well so kudos to  
Free information! Nords  Come to our introductory meeting  $200/mo. Private entrance, kitchen,  you. p.s. now all you lair weather  Need plans for February 7? Call  
2233 Adams Lorain. Ohio 44052  tonight  utilities included, laundry. phone, 2  Beautiful Brass bed, queen size,  packers "fans" can take off your  4-0553  
January 26 7:30pm @ Dalloway's  mn. N. of campus. Call 272·0615.  with orthopedic Mattress set and  gold and green and try on some·  
000 THE COPY SHOP  000  Coffeehouse  frame. New. never used, still in  thing new.  welcome to hell REAL  I still pushing "Honor not happi·  
LaFortune Student Center  Dalloway's  plastic. $225 219·862·2082  bronco's fans.  ·ik  ness."  
WE'RE OPEN EARLY. LATE.  Open Monday 7·12  
AND WEEKENDS!!! Mon · Thor 7:30am · Midnight  Wadnesday 7·12 Saturday 7-12  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND  TICKETS  we miss you. V!  Stop the presses ... who is that? Mark DeBoy.  
Fri  7:30am · 7:00pm  Located in the clubhouse next to  OTHER ND·SMC EVENTS.  MARK B. from 3A  He's great isn't he? Oh yeah. Oh  
Sat  Noon · 6:00pm  Holy Cross Hall. Saint Mary's  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS • 5  WANTED-ND vs MIAMI B·Ball tix  can you tell that this is for you?  yeah.  
Sun  Noon · Midnight  College  MIN. DRIVE OR 15·20 MIN. WALK.  on 2122. Lower arena.  I will shmear you in euchere any  
CALL 631-COPY  243-0658.  258·1111  day  Censorship is a terrible thing.  

page 13 

The Observer/Rob Finch 
Notre Dame's 109-60 rout of Providence was the second-highest scoring effort of the McGraw era. 
tenacious Fighting Irish play consistently for 40 min­
defense that did the Friars in. utes against them." 
W. B-ball 
After shooting 53 percent in a McGraw, however, felt that a 
102-93 loss to West Virginia on great deal of credit had to go tocontinued from page 20 
Wednesday, Providence the 5,056 fans that attended 
slumped to a dismal 30.2 per­the contest, a season-high at Providence in almost every sta­cent from the field, including a the Joyce Center. tistic. Offensively, all 12 play­7 -of-32 spurt in the first half. "It is so great to see that kind !~rs on the Irish roster scored, From beyond the arc, the visi­of atmosphere out here. The live of them in double figures. tors completed only one of nine team works so hard that it's Green led the pack with a shots in the first half, and 4-of-great for the team to see that career-high 22 points, going 9-17 for the game. The visitors kind of support. We know peo­for-16 from the field along with were led by sophomore ple have been supporting us all seven rebounds. Siemon fin­Meghan Hinds, who had 12 along, but to have those kind of ished with 16 points, while points on 3-of-12 shooting. numbers ... that makes the McMillen added 15, going 3-of-With the loss, the Friars fall game fun." 4 from beyond the arc. Ivey to 8-10 on the season and 4-6 With the win, Notre Dame scored 10 points in 18 minutes, in the Big East. improves its record to 13-5 on while Riley came close to "Our intensity just was not the season and 7-3 in confer­another double-double, scoring there consistently." Providence ence play. The Irish will now 11 points and a team-high head coach Jim Jabie travel eastward to face eight rebounds. On the boards, remarked on the game. "We Villanova on Wednesday, the Irish outrebounded the were really up and down men­before heading home to close Friars 50-31, their largest mar­tally. I like Notre Dame's team. the week in a Saturday after­gin of the season. They're well balanced; they're noon contest against Seton Hall 
In the end. though, it was the fantastic. We just could not at the Joyce Center. 



Head for the Hills! 
. . 
Karl Malone sc<>r~d 35 points and the presence of Bulls bad boy Dennis little to who. did dn'tdbi.ti. 
Finals' .•.•. Center. 
and 
All~Star game. Although the B11lls are a h~lf~game ahead.. Qf Indta*a, the Pac~rsh.ave a . 700 winning percentage to Chicago's .698, so Larry Bird will have the honor. Both Jackson and Bird have said they'd rather not be involved; 
Rodman was back after being sent home before Friday's game at New Jerser .for missing that tnorni~t.f$ practic~.He had been out until the early hours that morning and didn't go to the practice ue,(;Uilse "I didn't feel like 
but 
ab~ 
. on a 
left. 
t the and 
clin the game with a 
free throw by Stockton and 
two b Malone: . . . J' .ha(l six ts and 
tw < .sts dur • a 13~4 
surge that gave the Bulls a 
49~40 lead with 2 1/2 min­
utes left in the second quar­
ter. .But Malof:It scored seve(i.points a$ t~e Jazz scored>the final nine points of the half to tie. 
Malone had five points during a 10~2 run that gave the Ja,zz. a 73'-671ead with 
1:44 i(3ffjn the third· quar~ ter. Utah took a 71-73 lead into the fourth.


• 
Offers service work through various sites in Appalachia March 7-14, 1998 

• 
Is a one credit Theology course 

• 
Involves orientation & follow-up classes 

• 
Past participants in Appalachia Seminar are encouraged to appply as site coordinators 

• 
Presents opportunity to work, laugh, & learn with others 


INFORMATION SESSION 

Monday January 26, 1998 7:30-8:00 PM Center for Social Concerns 
APPLICATIONS 

Available at the Center for Social Concerns Due date: Wednesday, January 28, 1998 $40 deposit with application (non-refundable if accepted) 
FuRTHER INFORMATION 

Sean Frey, Student Co-chair, 4-4911 Ryan Murphy. Student Co-chair, 4-1980 Rachel Tomas Morgan, Seminar Coordinator, 1-9473 Jay Brandenberger, Faculty Advisor, 1-5293 
DOt\ . ~-.1\~ ~a'\ 
.... .St:l't: .,\\t!Y

.1.0· \~,_~,.. '1:&\l\' ~ttt< \\''t' 

\' tt r.•"' . 1\ "-'

:$-,,a \' ~\~ ....------------------,
.\a' at ' 
Meeting for 
Notre Dame Lesbian 
and Gay Students 
Group 

Tomorrow. Tuesday, January 27, 1998 Fot· time and lo!"ation of mt>t>ting, call: l-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C 
Sr.Mary Louise Gude, C. S.C. 

All Meetings are private and confidential. 
fTERNATJONAL WORKING OPPORTUNITY 

RECRUITING DATES: February 2, 3, 4, 1998 
at Career and Placement Services. Open to all majors. 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, January 26, 1998 
• SuPER BowL XXXII 

Broncos' Davis named Super Bowl XXXII MVP 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO This was the sweetest home­eoming of all for Terrell Davis. 
First, his local high school mtimd his number and then he retired Denver's four-game SupPr Bowl losing strnak with an MVI' performance in Sunday's 31-24 victory over (;rnPn Bay. 
Davis became the catalyst for the end of a 1:~-game AFC los­ing strnak by simply running over the l'aekers. lie rushed for 157 yards and became the lirst playPr to rush for three touchdowns in a Super Bowl. 
Aner Gn~nn Bay struck for the gamP's first touchdown, Davis brought the Broncos baek. His 27 -yard run punctu­atml Denver's first TD drive, and lw finislwd it oiT with a 1­yard burst. lin ran for 38 yards and caught a pass for 4 in the drive. 
Moments later, he was back again, going 16 yards on first down on Denver's next TD drive. The third-year running baek from (;eorgia gained 64 yards in the first. quarter alone and seemed to give the Broncos, beaten so often in this game, a major injection of eon­lidenee. 
When he went out with a migraine lwadache, missing much of the second quarter, Denver struggled. When he eame back in the second half, the Broncos flourished. 

He fumbled on his first carry after returning, leading to the tying field goal, but then he was the old Davis, helping the Broncos drive back downlield. And when he barreled into the end zone for the go-ahead touchdown at the end of the 

G 0. c l \ 

third quarter, it was a state­ment TD. 
And when Denver went on its winning drive in the final three minutes, Davis' 17 -yard run put the ball at the 1. When he ran into the end zone, it provided the exclamation point on a brilliant game. 
It has been that way all sea­son for Davis, whose flashy end zone salutes after scoring TDs became a rallying point for a team that so often seemed to lack one. 
!lis 1,750 yards rushing­best in the AFC-helped, too. Davis' fourth straight 100­yard playoff game and 1Oth 
this season pushed him into the record books, past Eric Dickerson with the most yards gained in a single season. He took Denver on his back at the start of the year and carried them to their ultimate goal at the end. 
That's a long way from being a sixth round draft pick, large­ly ignored and passed over for bigger names like Ki-Jana Carter, Napoleon Kaufman, James Stewart and Hashaan Salaam. 
It was the same way coming out of high school when he was a nose tackle and blocking back. lie started out playing at Long Beach State for coach George Allen and after the pro­gram was dropped, he moved to Georgia. 
"I was surprised to be draft­ed because in college, I didn't have the stats," he said. "I only had a little over 400 yards rushing my senior year." 
lie became an instant force for the Broncos, giving John Elway the ground game he never really had for a balanced attack. Davis looks back with pride on what he's done after his rather humble beginnings. 
"There's a lot of things I look back on and say, 'I'm proud of that,' " he said. "But ultimate­ly, there's not one thing I can point to and say 'This is my proudest moment."' 
Broncos end 14-year AFC drought 
Associated Press 
The old dude finally did it. 
John Elway and the Denver Broncos won a Super Bowl for themselves and the AFC by beating the Green Bay Packers 31-24 Sunday in one of the most exciting games ever. 
It gave the 37-year-old Elway his first win in four tries and the AFC its first in 14. 
Sure, he had help. 
lie got it from MVP Terrell Davis, who gained 157 yards in 30 carries and scored on three 1-yard runs, including the win­ner with 1:45 len in the game. 
And he got it from the defending cham pion Packers, who committed three critical penalties late in the game. Thny ineludnd a holding call and a false start on rookie len taekle Hoss Verba that bottled Green Bay de!)p, and a face mask on Darius Holland that gave the Broncos 15 key yards on their game-winning 49-yard drive. 

Still, the game wasn't decid­ed until John Mobley knocked down Brett Favre's pass from the Denver 31 with 28 seconds left. 
Elway, the oldest quarter­back to win a Super Bowl, did a few things right, too. 
He scrambled 8 yards to set up a touchdown, and scored on a 1-yard run -a lot like the young Elway. He finished 12-of-22 for 122 yards and threw one end-zone intercep­tion. 
If this wasn't the best Super Bowl ever, it was close to it, despite a lot of sloppiness ­15 penalties and live turnovers by the two teams. Elway's mis­take came at the Green Bay 22 when the Broncos had a chance to go ahead by more than a touchdown late in the third quarter. 
But otherwise, it was two heavyweights going punch for punch -Favre threw for three TDs, two to Antonio Freeman, and Davis ran for three. 
Each team scored a touch­down on its first possession, the first time that's ever hap­pened in a Super Bowl. 
Then Denver jumped to a 17­7 lead before a 17-play, 95­yard drive by the Packers, sec­ond longest in Super Bowl his­tory. That cut it to 17-14 at halftime and Green Bay seemed to have momentum. 
But Elway engineered a 92­yard drive of his own to give the Broncos a 24-17 lead. Then, after Elway threw the interception, the Packers went 85 yards in just four plays to tie it. 



Attention all H.U.G.S. Members: 
There will be a 
mandatory meeting 
on Thursday january 29th at 7:00 in the C.S. C. 



Interested in Doing Research at a World-Class Research Institute? 
Undergraduate Summer lnsternships 
The Environmental Research Institute, a joint activity of Notre Dame & Argonne National Laboratory (ANL), in collaboration with the Center for Environmental Science & Technology will award up to three Summer 1998 internships at ANL in Argonne, IL-with a follow-up campus research appointment in the Fall. Stipend, room & board are provided for the 10-week program. 
Student applicants should have research interests in an environmentally-related disdpline (any field of study) concerned with or likely to contribute to the understanding, assessment, or improvement of the environment. Applicants must be US citizens or permanent residents, enrolled at Notre Dame, have completed their junior Year by May 1998 and be registered to return in the Fall of 1998. 
For more details, contact the Center for Environmental Science & Technology: 152A Fitzpatrick Hall, 631-8376. Applicants will be required to complete an application. 

---~----­
Monday, January 26, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 15 
• COllEGE BASKETBAll 




Turner, Illinois upset below average Michigan 
Associated Press 
Kevin Turner scored 17 points and Illinois held No. 16 Michigan to its lowest point total of the season in a 64-53 victory Sunday. 
Michigan finished 24 points below its season average and the total was one point below what the Wolverines scored in a onEl-point win over Detroit on Nov. 30. 
Illinois (13-7, 5-2 Big Ten) took control of the game early in the second half as a 9-0 run gave it a 42-30 lead with 15:30 left. Turner started the spurt with a basket that was followed by a 3-pointer by Matt Heldman. Brian Johnson added a free throw and Turner completed the run with a 3­pointer. 
Michigan (15-5, 5-2) didn't score its first basket of the sec­ond half until Louis Bullock hit a jumper with 15:07 left. 
Michigan scored just 22 points in the second half, but stiII cut Illinois' lead to 51-44 with six minutes left. 
But Illinois responded to the run with seven straight points over the next 2:45 as Victor Chukwudebe scored on a base­line drive and dunk. Johnson made three throws and another 3 by Heldman. 
Jerry Hester had 15 points for 
Illinois and Chukwudebe added 
a season-high 10. 
Maceo Baston had 1 4 points 
for Michigan, while Bullock 
added 13, Jerod Ward 11 and 
Hob!)rt Traylor 10. 
Michigan shot just 33 percent 
from the field (20-of-60) and 
Illinois wasn't a lot better, 
shooting 41 percent {23-of-56). 
The Wolverines used their 
size advantage to dominate the 
rebounding by a 42-35 margin. 
Illinois led 16-14 with 11 minutes left in the first half when Turner, who scored six quick points, sparked a 13-4 run to put the Illini up 29-18 with seven minutes remaining. Illinois led 33-22 with four min­utes left when the Wolverines went on an 8-0 run to cut Illinois' halftime lead to 33-30. 
No. 21 Cincinnati 88, No. 22 Rhode Island 82 
Ruben Patterson scored 27 points, including two clinching free throws, and No. 21 Cincinnati held on to beat No. 22 Rhode Island 88-82 Sunday. 
Cincinnati (15-3) recovered from an overtime loss to Marquette by finally getting a solid game out of Patterson. The forward was suspended for the first 14 games of the season because of NCAA rules viola­tions and scored only 29 points in his first three games back. 
Hhode Island (13-4) couldn't stop Patterson's drives to the basket, which set up a 16-9 run at the start of the second half that put Cincinnati ahead to stay. 
Rhode Island cut a 10-point deficit to 84-82 on Tyson Wheeler's two free throws with 
1:18 left and got the ball back by blocking Bobby Brannen's shot with 46 seconds to go. But Wheeler missed a 3-point shot from the right wing, Patterson got the rebound and made two free throws with 17 seconds left to clinch it. 
Cuttino Mobley scored 26 points -nine in the closing spurt-to lead Hhode Island. 
Neither team could gain a toehold as the first half ended tied at 39. Rhode Island led by four points early, Cincinnati went up by as many as five and there were eight lead changes. 
Most of Cincinnati's points came inside -the Bearcats dominated in offensive rebounds 13-2-and Patterson got most of them. Patterson scored 16 points in the half on 7 -of-12 shooting. 
But there was nothing to complement Patterson. The Bearcats were 4-of-15 from 3­point range, the main reason they couldn't get momentum. 
By contrast, Rhode Island developed an inside-outside attack, piling up five dunks and going 6-of-9 on three-pointers in the half. But when the Rams missed, they rarely got a sec­ond shot, preventing them from pulling away. 
Overall, Cincinnati dominated the boards 42-18. 
Patterson put Cincinnati in control at the start of the sec­ond half by taking the ball to the basket. He had two dunks, a steal and a three-point play as the Bearcats moved ahead 55-48. 
Michael Horton's fastbreak layup pushed the lead to 74-64 with 6:58 left, and the Bearcats held on. 
No. 9 UCLA 88, Louisville 82 
J.R. Henderson scored a career-high 32 points as No. 9 UCLA blew most of a 24-point lead in the second half and held on to beat Louisville 88-82 Sunday. 
Toby Bailey and Kris Johnson combined to score all of UCLA's final seven points when the Cardinals got within five with 
1:12 to play. Bailey finished with 19 points and Johnson had 13. 
Nate Johnson scored 23 points -one off his career high -for the Cardinals (8-12), who had won two straight over the Bruins (15-3), including a 74-71 decision last year in Louisville. 
But they have never had much success in Los Angeles, winning just once in eight games here for coach Denny Crum, a former player and assistant at UCLA. 
Down by 24 points in the first five minutes of the second half, Louisville capitalized on a series of UCLA turnovers to get back into the game. 
The Cardinals used a 22-5 run, including 10 by Eric Johnson, to close within seven points with 8:54 remaining, their first single-digit deficit since late in the first half. 
Point guard Baron Davis fouled out at the end of Louisville's spurt, leaving fellow freshman Earl Watson to run UCLA's offense. 
He· quickly dished off to Kris Johnson, who scored inside, then Watson did the same. Freshman Travis Reed added a basket that launched seven straight points by the Bruins, who led 80-66 with 5:32 remaining. 
Louisville found success from 3-point range over the final 3:42, hitting four shots from behind the arc, including two by Eric Johnson, who finished with 16 points before fouling out with 1:24 left. 
That's when Bailey took over, 
scoring a basket and two free 
throws, and Kris Johnson made 
three of four free throws to 
send Louisville to its fifth loss in 
six games. 
The Bruins broke open a one­
point game by outscoring 
Louisville 34-15 over the final 
12:15 of the first half. Henderson had 13 points work­ing inside against the smaller Cardinals. 
Nate Johnson scored half of Louisville's first 14 points as they had the Bruins down by four points twice in the first five minutes. 
No. 6 Arizona 93, Oregon St. 80 

Miles Simon scored 23 points and No. 6 Arizona overcame a sluggish performance to beat Oregon State 93-80 Sunday, the Wildcats' 10th straight victory. 
The Wildcats (17 -3, 7-0 Pac­

10} beat the Beavers (10-9, 1-7) for the 16th consecutive time. 
Michael Dickerson had 19 points for Arizona, while A.J. Bramlett added 14 points and eight rebounds and Mike Bibby had 13 points and nine assists. 
Corey Benjamin led Oregon State with 24 points, while John-Blair Bickerstaff added 17 and Dino Tanner had 15. 
Arizona fell behind by as many as six points in the first half, but a late 1 7-0 run put the Wildcats ahead 41-30 at half­time. 

Simon started the run with a dunk from a pass by Jason Terry with 5:35 left in the half. That cut the Beavers' lead to 26-25. Simon scored eight points in the stretch including a three-point play with 1:58 left to end the run and put Arizona ahead 40-26. 
Halfway through the second 
half, Arizona put together its 
clinching spurt. Terry, who had 
10 points, scored on a layup 
with 13:57 left to start an 11-3 
run. Bibby's dunk with 11:42 
left ended it and gave Arizona 
its biggest lead of the game, 70­
48. 
The Beavers then scored seven straight points and slowly crept within 82-70 on Benjamin's 3-pointer with 4:05 left. But the Beavers could never get the lead under double figures. 

.. 

Bored during class? Do the crossword,l page 19. 

ROOM  
•MOCK INTERVIEWS  
•DISCUSSIONS ON THE  
Jon SEARC1I PRocK'\S  
•RESUME WRITING  
Tn•s  
•GRAHliATE STUIJY  
ADVOCATES  
•COMMUNITY  
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1998  0RGANIZATIONS  
REGINA HALL  
8:00 A.M.  -3:00 P.M.  

pagel6________________________________________~T~h~e~O~b~s~eN~er~·-S~P~()~R~T~S~____________________________M_o_n_d_a~~-J_an_u_a~ry_2_6_,_I_9__ 
• WoMEN's CollEGE BASKETBAll 
No. 1 Tennessee rolls to victory over Commodores 
~~('~

-lwg 
NOTRE DAME 


Alumni Awareness Week Scavenger Hunt 
Clue #1: I'm round and small, made ofgold. Don't look too long cause it's really cold. 

Attend the Question &.. Answer session Tuesday, January 27 at 7:00 in Haggar Parlor 
? ? ? ? ? ? 



Become an informed Voter about this year's candidates and their platforms. 
Associated Press 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. 
Charniqun lloldsclaw scored 24 points and Snmeka Handall and Tamika Catchings each addnd 22 Sunday as No. I Tennnssee beat a ranked opponent for the ninth time this season. routing Vanderbilt S(,-54. 
The Lady Vols (21-0, 7-0 Southeastnrn Conference) opened the second half with a 24-2 run, harassing Vanderbilt ( 14-3, 5-2) into 0-for-1 0 shoot­ing and five turnovers. 
Tennessee's pressure got so intenso that Vandy freshman point guard Ashley Smith found herself backed up on the end line by Kyra Elzy and lost the ball out of bounds. 
The Commodores didn't scon~ until Beth Ostendorf's basknt with 13:35 left, but lloldsclaw responded with a bucket and a pair of frcn throws for a 61-33 lead with 
12:32 n~maining, 
VandPrbilt, which hasn't bnatt~n T1~nrwssee during the regular season since I 990, pulled to 70-44 with 8:22 left on a basket bv Na'Shenma llillmon. Tlw l~ady Vols put together a IJ-0 spurt during which llillmon foulnd out and took an S0-46 !Pad. 
Misty Grc1~nc gavr. Tennr.sse1~ 

its biggest lead at 86-51 on a jumper with 46.8 seconds lr.ft. 
Ostendorf and Paige Hedman r.ach finished with 10 points to lead Vanderbilt, which outre­bounded the Lady Vols 37-31 but finished with 24 turnovers. 
Vanderbilt tried to keep Tennessee's defense off bal­ance early by pushing the ball up the court, and it worked for a while. The Commodores led for the first five minutes as they made their first five shots. 
But Kristen Clement's free throw tied the game at 12 with 
14:59 left, Catchings scored underneath and lloldsclaw made two free throws and another basket for a quick 7-0 spurt and an 18-12 lead. 
The teams swapped the lead twice more with two more ties before Holdsclaw scored seven more of her 16 first-half points in helping the Lady Vols to a 37-31 lead at halftime. 
No. 24 Duke 78, No. 19 Clemson 78-59 

Nicole Erickson scored 21 points as No. 24 Duke easily upset No. 19 Clemson 78-59 Sunday and tied the Tigers for first place in the Atlantic Coast Conference. 
Duke led from start to finish against a higher-ranked oppo­nent for the third time this month. The Blue Devils beat 
Virginia and North Carolina State last week. 
Michele VanGorp added 16 points for Duke (14-5, 7-2). Hilary Howard had 14 points and eight assists. 
Amy Geren led Clemson (15­4, 7 -2) with 14 points and Kerri Thomas had in 10. 
The Blue Devils scored the game's first eight points and led 43-28 at halftime. Howard scored 10 points in a span of 3:20, putting Duke up 23-11 with her second 3-pointer. 
Duke led by as many as 25 points in the second half after a 10-0 run that featured con­secutive 3-pointers by Erickson and a 1 0-foot jumper by VanGorp with 6:33 remain­ing. 
Erickson was 7-l'or-10, including 5-for-7 from 3-point range. Duke shot 31-for-61, while Clemson was 22-for-56. 
The Blue Devils had a 42-29 advantage on the boards, led by Peppi Browne's nine rebounds. 
LaTonya Sims had 15 points and 10 rebounds Sunday as No. 17 Wisconsin regrouped from a seven-point first-half deficit to beat Minnesota 6 7­54. 
Katie Voigt added 14 points for the Badgers {15-6, 4-5 Big Ten), while Kelley Paulus had 
13. Wisconsin avenged a loss to the Gophers in the first round of last season's Big Ten tournament. 
For Sims, it was her fifth double-double of the season and third in a row. The Badgers shot 46.4 percent from the field, while the Gophers finished at 37.3 per­cent. 
Kiauna Burns scored a career-high 25 points for Minnesota (4-15, 1-8), while Theresa LeCuyer added 14. 
Wisconsin closed the first half with an 18-2 run to erase a 21-14 deficit and build a 32­23 halftime lead. Sims led the Badgers with nine first-half points. Burns led all scorers in the first half with 16 points. 
The closest the Gophers got in the second half was 36-29 with 16:52 to play. The Badgers led by as many as 17 points twice in the second half. 
It was just the second confnr­ence victory on the road for the Badgers, who play five of their last seven games at home. 
No .11 North Carolina 7S, Wake Forest 53 
Laquanda Barksdale scored 16 points and No. 11 North Carolina limited Wake Forest to 28 percnnt shooting in a 78­53 victory Sunday. 
Chane! Wright scored 13, Tracy Heid had 12 and Nicol11 Walker II for the Tar Heels (15-4, 6-3 Atlantic Coast Conference), who shot 48 per­cent (28-of-59). 
Kristen ShafTer and Cynthia Kelley had 10 points eaeh for Wake Forest (4-15, 0-9). 
The Tar lleels led 2:~-18 with 
3:58 left in thn first half. Then, Nikki Teasley had two free throws and a 3-pointer in the next minute, starting a 15-4 Tar Heels run. 
North Carolina led by as many as :{5 points, 71-3(,, after a stlml and layup by Heid with 5:37 Inn. 
The Dnmon Deacons mad1~ only 15 of 54 shots and com­mitted 25 turnovnrs. They were outreboundnd 42-36. 

From the Goat,_,the Ray Gun, Biggitty, Tanner, Davis, Vives'" the rest of the Section 

The Office ofMulticultural Affairs at Saint Mary's College Presents ... 

DISCOVERING THE POSSIBILITIES 
WORKSHOPS 
•COMMUNITY 
SERVICE 

•WOMEN 
AND LEADERSHIP 

•INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY 

•POLITICS 
IN THE WORKPLACE 

•BALANCING 
AcT: WIFE, MarnER, 


PROVIDER •••AND MANY MORE 
Registration Fee is $5.00-Includes all Meal Functions & Registration Materials CALL (219) 284-4723 TO REGISTER OR FOR MORE INFORMATION 
CO-SPONSORED BY CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
A Life Exploration Forum for Women 
LIFE EXPLORATION 

Monday, January 26, 1998 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Shodn-Ryu Karate -This semester-long course meets in Rockne Room 219 on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 6-7:30 p.m., starting Jan. 29. You must register in advance at 1\ecSports and the fee is $18. A demonstration will be held at 6:30 p.m., on Tuesday, .Jan. 27, in 1\ockne Rm. 219. Call 1-8237 for more informa­tion. 
Jazz Dance -A Jazz Dance class will be offered Saturdays and TuesdtLys from 12-1 :30 
p.m. (Sat.) and 8-9 p.m. (Tues.) in Rockne Hm. 301. There will be an information meeting on Sunday, Jan. 25, at 2 p.m. in Rockne Rm. 301. 
Downhill Ski Trip -RecSports will be sponsoring a Downhill Ski trip to Swiss Valley on Friday, Jan. 30. The 


buses wfll leave the Library·' Circle at 5 p.m. and ret~rn. t9 campus at approximatelylt· 
p.m. The fee for those need~ ..... ing to.rent skis is $28. and for.··.··· those who will bring their oWn skis, the cost is $19. All par­ticipants must register in advance. at RecSpoits on or 
before Wednesday, Jan. 28 . 
Cross Country Ski Clinics -RecSports will be sponsoring three clinics this winter. The first cliniC will be on Saturday; Jan. 31. at 11 a.m.. and there will be two offered on Saturday, Feb. 7, one at 10 
a.m. and the second one at 2 
p.m. The fee for the clinic ls $5 with an additional $4 rental fee if you need to rent skis. Registration in advance is required for all three cross country ski clinics. 
------~--­ -~---~  - ~----~---------·  
The Observer • SPORTS • HOCKEY  page 17  

leers down conference rival 
By CHARLEY GATES Sports Writer 

The Boys of Winter surged into seventh place in the com­petitive Central Collegiate Hockey Association polls with a gritty, 5-4 overtime defeat of Bowling Green Saturday night at Bowling Green. The Irish (13-10-3 overall, 8-7-3 CCHA) were propelled to victory by senior captain Steve Noble, who scored two goals and assisted on a third, and by junior right wing Brian Urick, who notched his fifth game­winning goal of the season 46 seconds into the overtime peri­od. 
Junior goaltender Forrest Karr improved to 6-1-1 on the season, making 30 saves. Three of Karr's eight career victories have come at the expense of Bowling Green. Notre Dame now stands in sev­enth place ahead of Ferris State but remain one point his second point of the game at defenseman Tyson Fraser slide
behind Ohio State University. The top eight teams in the the 5:11 mark, burying a slap the puck down the blue line to 
shot that sneaked inside the Benoit
CCHA advance to the coveted junior defenseman 
CCHA playoffs. left post. Freshman right wing Cotnoir, who let a shot rip from The Irish struck early in the Ryan Dolde followed Noble's the right side of the blue line. game on the power play. Noble example four minutes later. He An opportunistic Noble tipped took a pass from Dhadphale -the blast at the top of the
led the charge, carrying the 
puck down the left side. lie who got hit immediately after crease and into the right cor­dished it to freshman left wing the play -and streaked down ner of the net for a 4-2 lead. the left side, angling into the But the home team came
Dan Carlson, who one-timed it into the net for his eighth goal crease as he nudged toward roaring back, eventually tying 
of the season. the goal. Dolder was able to the game and forcing overtime. Bowling Green answered just slap the puck into the right cor­But the day belonged to the 42 seconds later on a power­ner of the net as he was falling Irish and Urick. He took a pass play goal of its own, sending backwards toward the endline. from sophomore defender 
the teams to the locker room But Bowling Green came Nathan Borega and let loose a tied at 1 after one period. roaring back and cut the deficit low shot that went through the The Boys of Winter stretched to 3-2 before the period ended. legs of goaltender Shawn their lead to 3-1 with two goals The Irish's fourth goal was Timm, giving the Irish their 5-4 
in the first nine minutes of the scored by Noble on a two-man win and seventh place in the 
advantage. Sophomore CCHA.
second period. Noble notched 
The Jacques Maritain Center presents 


Jeffrey SatinoveL M.D. 
Dr. Satinover is a practicing psychiatrist and psychoanalyst and is the former president of the 8. G. Jung Foundation of New York. He Holds degrees from MIT, Harvard, and the University ofTexas, and is a former Fellow in Psychiatry and Child Psychiatry at Yale and a former William James lecturer in Psychology and Religion at Harvard. 
An Orthodox Jew living in Connecticut, Dr. Satinover is also the author ofHomosexuality and the Politics ofTruth, a widely applauded analysis of the current debate over homosexuality viewed 
from psychological, religious and scientific perspectives. Dr. Satinover will address the argument, advanced at Notre Dame as well as nationally, that the American Psychiatric Association's 1973 vote not to treat homosexuality as a psychological disorder ought to end all discussion of the matter. He hopes that his talk will contribute a needed perspective to Notre Dame's discussion of homosexuality. 
Tuesday, January 27 Hesburgh Library Auditorium • 8:00 p.m. 




page 18 The Observer· SPORTS 
• TRACK AND fiELD 

Irish rewrite track record books 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Jesse Masloski jumped well. Other top performances were When other people have good Danny Payton's 600-meter victo­
SportS Writer 

days, you just feed ofT of that." ry and Terry Wray's runner-up Stellar performances by four "It's a good place for me to be finish to Payton, Chris Cochran's nwmbers of the Notre Dame right now. I wanted to reach that third place in the 55-meter dash, traek and fwld team will long be NCAA qualifying standard and Carri Lenz's close second in the rmnernlwred. as they etched be able to approaeh the rest of. 400-meter run in 57.5, Mike their names into the record the year without having to worry Conway's second-place in the books in only the second meet of about that. I have a goal of jump­3,000-meter run, and high tlw. season. ing in the high 1Ts and, hopeful­jumpers Jenny Engelhardt and 
Mike Brown srnashnd the ly, I'll win the Big East again. Kelle Saxen's second and third reeord in the pole vault by over qualify for nationals, and per­place finishes. _ nino inehns. cross country ali­form well at nationals." "We had a lot of good things 
Arnerkan JoAnna Deeter Deeter, in her first track race happen," said Scott Winsor, dropped nine seconds olT the of the 1998 season, snapped the coach for the jumpers and school nword in the 3,000-meter rncord set in 1995 by Sarah throwers. "Tho first thing we 
run. Nadia Schmiedt broke the Hiley. Coming into the race with look for is consistency in perfor­(J00-meter run record set in only two real track workouts mance, and the first thing you It)CJ3 by running a 1:32.76, and since Christmas break because have to do to improve is be con­
Errol Williams tied the 55-meter of illness, she ran a time of 9:46. sistent. hurdles n~cord. Many other run­"I was real pleased with "Engelhardt, in her first-ever rwrs also plaet•d highly. sophomore JoAnna Deeter," said long jump, jumped almost 18 
"Errol Williams improved upon distance coach Tim Connelly. feet. She loved it, and if you ever his tinw that lw ran last week "She set a school record and want to be great at something, that got him into thn NCAAs with provisionally qualified for the it's got to be fun. It's quite a sac­7.29," said head coach Joe NCAAs. She's really fit. We've rifice to give time up from the Piane. "Mike Brown set a school just got to keep her healthy. high jump to try the pentathlon. record of 17'6" in the pole vault. Freshman Erin Olson also ran She deserves a lot of credit for 
That will get them into the well in her first time in the that," Winsor said. 
NCAAs. we believe. We'll just 3,000-meters." Engelhardt, a sophomore, said have to wait and see. "I was really happy because of the long jump, "It's a fun "I think the team learned that it's the first meet, and you just event for me to try to get my it can compete very well within really want to get started off on mind ofT the long jump. I'm real­the Big East. I was real pleased the right foot. I felt really good ly aiming towards doing the pen­with a fellow natm~d Phil Mishka, yesterday. and I plan to run a lot tathlon this year. I really want to who has been injured since May faster." said Deeter. "I definitely win the Big East in the high and proved his level of fitness. I want to get to the indoor nation­jump and break the school 
was also pleased with Nick al meet, run my own race, and record in the long jump if that's Pehring, both distance runners." get back into running with the possible." Brown. a junior, vaulted 17'6", best people in the nation. It This may have been a break­literally demolishing Paul Doyle's should be an attainable goal." through performance for the 
record of 16'8 3/4" set in 1982. "Alii can say about Saturday is team, with four school records "I was feeling good Saturday, that God blessed me with a good and provisional NCAA qualifica­but I think it was mostly just the coach, a good mental attitude, tions. It should be a confidence­enthusiasm of the team. and a good race," said Williams, builder as the Irish prepare to Everyone's so supportive and a captain. "My goals are still to face their first head-to-head you just feel that enthusiasm," win the team Big East title and competition Friday. Both the said Brown. Notre Dame's only enjoy the season. I don't see men and women will compete 
returning individual Big East much that could change that at against Indiana Friday, and the ehampion. "Mike Stany and aiL" men will also take on Tennessee. 


M. Tennis 
continued from page 20 
by Champy Halim, 6-3, 6-2, and Rothschild never looked back in his 6-2, 6-0 romp of Gareth Quinn. 
Warford pumped up his game and played a crisper match, blasting Vinay Reddy, 6-0, 6-1. 
"I put the press,ure on and followed through," Warford said of his success. "I was try­ing to keep everything in focus." 
Focus was again blurry at the No. 2 spot where Jakub Pietrowski lost a tough battle 
Monday, January 26, 1998 
against Miami's Dave Abelson, 3-6. 6-7. 
"Unfortunately, he caught a hot server and couldn't show what he was capabl!~ of," Bayliss said. 
Despite the loss, Notre Dame finally wrapped up the second part of the double-header 5-1 when Enloe won his final match after over two hours of play. Overall the Irish put on a strong showing, winning 20 of 26 sets and losing only two matches. 
"For the most part we played well," Bayliss said. "Several people played extremely well. As humbly as I can put it, it's what we expectnd." 


Monday, January 26, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 19 

D Enclosed is $85 for one academic yearis a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
..
Community. 
Name ________________________________________ __ 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have Address _______________________________________
found The Observer an indispensible link to the 
City-------State ____Zip______
two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS DAN SULLIVAN 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM MIKE PETERS 

SCOTT ADAMS 
,. 
~ 

SO, IT'5 SWIFT JUSTICE.
0 

I WILL APPLY SWLFT
" 
-' 

FOR PEOPLE WHO AREN'T
JUSTICE TO THOSE ~
0.. 
TOO 

UJ " ;.
® ,. WHO EXHIBIT A. UJ
.. 
SWIFT?
~ 

c LACK OF COMMON 
I'M USING 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 
Aries: It's a fabulous time to get out and shake your thing. You're feeling extra bubbly today, so get your gregarious self out on the dance floor. You will entice a host of dazzling partners. 
Taurus: What more could you ask in life but time to do what­ever you please? Make that dream a reality today and please yourself. You'll be glad you did, and you might even meet a special someone. 
Gemini: Indulge your airy nature today by perusing for­eign arts. Take your pick: from belly dancing to expressionist paintings, a world of sheer delights awaits you. Be wary of conflict with family members this evening. 
Cancer: Make way for Cancer, you are ready to roll with the punches. You will over­come adversaries and have a terrific time doing it. Just try not to step on too many toes along the way. 
Leo: What have you been up to lately naughty Leo? Looks like you've been sticking your fingers in the cookie jar again; fortunately for you it's nothing too serious. Just stop cheating at card games will you? 
Virgo: Take a break from work Virgo, and think about the more fun side of your future. You've been neglecting your beloveds lately, so make time· for some extra communication. All will work out well in the end. 



Wanted: 
Reporters and 
editors. 
Join The 
Observer staff. 
The Observer 
P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Libra: Feeling a little weary Libra? You don't have to run around like a chicken without a head to get things done you know. Take time to breathe, and smile, and others will respond much more positively to you. 
Scorpio: There's nothing wrong with you that an over­sized lollipop and some good tunes wouldn't fix. It's not the best time to go out, so make the most of your misery and stay home with videos. 
Sagittarius: Got a case of the Monday blues Sag? Try not to freak out: remember that friends are there to lend a hand. Believe it or not, you'll achieve more than you ever thought possible today. 
Capricorn: Why not spoil yourself today Capricorn? After all, it's been a long, hard haul lately. Take your sweetie out for a night on the town. Remember, a little romance can go a long. long way. 
Aquarius: There's no one but you to hold you back today Aquarius. So take on the world, and the world will laugh with you. A great time for meeting cool friends and influencing famous people. 
Pisces: After a hard day of work. make yourself a martini and prepare for an adventurous evening. Be sure to dress up especially sharp: an unexpected turn of events will take you on an exciting journey. 

DILBERT 
I /)..PPOINTED MYSELF "DEPUTY OF COMMON 
SENSE." 


The Observer 
and mail to: 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer 
67 Five-time Wimbledon champ, 1976-80 
68 Vintner Ernest or Julio &9 Girl-watch or boy-watch 10 -Ball (arcade game) 71 Church officer 72 Marsh plant 
DOWN 

1 Doctrine: Suffix 2 Captain 
obsessed 3 Maven 4 Like some 
diamonds, sizewise 

5 "Luncheon on the Grass" painter Edouard 
&Chewed the scenery 7 Fodder storage site 8 "-Icared!" 
32 Lie in store for 51 Marriageable 60 Quit, in poker9 Yemen, once 33Winter 54 Old Wells Fargo 61 Winning margin
10Grand-· 
windshield transport 

62 Longest river in Dam setting 56 Elizabeth I was the world11 Word before 
34 Sir, in Seville the last one 

laugh or straw 63 "60 Minutes"
36 What may be 57 Library unit network12 Salt Lake City followed by 58 Dublin's land 

students 66 TV's "--and
improved13 Feminine suffix 59 Elliptical Stacey"
service? 21 Toll 
38 Dander 22 Regalia item 
41 Buckeyes· sch. 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 25 French clerics 42 The "I" in ICBM are available by touch-tone phone: 2&Hon 43 Cause of an 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
27 Time after time unexpected fall 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 29Bid 48 Jellybean flavor 
best of Sunday crosswords from the last 30 Retrocede 49 --Plaines, Ill. 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Make checks payable to: 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


























STANDFDRIBIGMAC 
PICAYUNE ARRO[WS 

ACCES~~~ ~RETEL 
RKOS SCOTS WISE K L 
U 
ANO 
vor-v 

L E S E 
Ml
E~

E S 
DE 
M 1Is 
E S I L 
v ~ 

GA G­B R 
T Hll
z~

R E 
Ml 
L ~ 

EDT 
VAT 

EAT A l 
E S ,£~,!."~ B A l I 
KIBOSH HELLENIC U N B A L E E Q U A L I Z E P E 
E K A T S T R I A T E D 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 "Othello" villain 5 Flat-topped hills 10 Colonel Mustard's game 14 Eschew 15 Some of the Pennsylvania Dutch 16 Feed bag contents 11 Filly's mother 18 "Truly!" 19 Takes advantage of 20 Jalopy 23 Poker starter 24"Roses­red ...• 25 Like a lot 28 Fawn's mother 31 Necklace units 
35 Come about 37 Department of 
Justice div. 39 Tiny 40 Autumn 1940 
aerial war 44 Prior to, 
poetically 45 Mao--tung 46 Tenor Caruso 47 Council of 
Trent, e.g. so Flower holder 52 Spud 53 Lawyer's thing 55 Texas Western, 
today: Abbr. 57 Mule, e.g. 63 Kind of purse 64 Sidestep 65 Norse Zeus 

----------~-~--­
• SPORTS 
20 
• WOMEN's BASKETBAll 



Irish cook Friars at 'Jam the Joyce' 
back, using a layup by fresh­run to quickly erase any
Green scores 

man Monika Roberts to tie the chances of a Providence come­game at 12 points. With a little back.career high 22 over 10 minutes to go in the However, the Irish victory 
half. the game was knotted at was marred by an injury.points in rout 16 apiece. While on defense. Peirick By BILL HART Then, the rout began. turned her right ankle, which Sports Writer Freshman Ruth Riley, a was already frail from a previ­
major inside force for the Irish, ous injury. Despite walking off 
At any particular women's jumpstarted the Notre Dame the court under her own basketball game. the cheer­offense with a layup with 10:50 power, she did not return for leaders will throw out a couple remaining in the first half. the rest of the game. of shirts to the crowd after a After a layup from sophomore "Mollie turned it before when spectacular 
.------..., Niele Ivey, a three-pointer we were practicing for the basket made from junior Sheila McMillen Boston College game," McGraw
" 
by a Notre extended the Irish lead to 10 said about the injury. "The Dame player. points. Finally, a breakaway most disappointing thing is that 
By the end layup by Roberts ended the 35-I had just sent Niele to the of the first 11 Irish run. By the end of the scorer's table to replace her on half in half, though, the Irish held a that play. She won't practice Saturday's 51-27 advantage. now for the Villanova game." Notre Dame-"In the past few games I Despite the injury. the Irish Providence Green think I've struggled with my still kept going strong. game, the shooting," McMillen said about Sophomore Mary Leffers lt~prechaun had to be wonder­her performance. "But today, I drained the free throw that ing whether he would have really wanted to get going and pushed the Irish past the cen­enough to last the game. after I hit that first three, it tury mark. The lead was 
In one of its most balanced really helped get me focused." stretched to 50 points at one and extensive scoring efforts of In the second half. the Irish point late in the contest before 
the season, Notre Dame's picked up right from where a Friar three-pointer gave the 
women's basketball team rout­they left off. Freshman Kelley visitors their final points of the 
ed Providence 109-60 Saturday Siemon began the half with an half. 
at the Joyce Cent1~r. easy jumper, while Ivey hit a "I thought we executed pretty 
The game starlfHI ofT with a three-pointer to push the lead well." McGraw said about the bang as senior Mollie Peirick over 30 points. It took almost team's performance. "I felt we converted a three-pointer in three minutes for the Friars to were playing very loose; we the first shot of the game. get on the board through a were working the ball well, After a slow start, Providence layup by freshman Dana passing the ball around. It was was ablc to get on the board Trippany. In the next posses­just a great team effort." four minutes into the contest sion, Peirick drained a three­By the end of the game, Notre with a perimeter shot of its pointer in response. For the Dame had overpowered own by freshman Jen Gornbotz. first four minutes of the second The Friars carne storming half. the Irish went on a 15-2 see W B.BALL I page 13 

• MEN's TENNIS 


Enloe works overtime in wins 
By SHANNON RYAN No. 1 position, was able to pour cess as the senior easily won (,­Sports Writer on the pressure to defeat 4, 6-1. DePaul's Greg Tranquada, 6-4, Only the No. 2 position was 
Eric Enloe apparently either 6-2. devoid of success against the loves the attention or thinks His biggest obstacle was Blue Demons. he's getting paid by the hour. accurately reading Canadian Brian Patterson waited a littlr. 
Keeping true to his tradition Tranquada's serve. As the too patiently for a break. After Saturday, Enloe was the last serves became more literate to a slow start and weak rcturns, Irish player on the Eck Pavilion the 6-foot-6 senior, he returned it never eame. Despitfl beating courts in Notre Dame's 5-1 better and gained the win. Lucas lloraeek last year. he fr.ll wins over both DePaul and "I think I competed well," to the DePaul senior, 1-6, 4-6. Miami of Ohio. Although the Sachire said. "I won the big "I think I was just overconfi­Irish had already secured wins points when needed. I fought dent," Patterson said. "Maybn I that advance them to 3-0, Enloe hard." took it too lightly. If I could played the matches to threr. Senior captain Danny have returned well, it could long sets. Rothschild played true to char­have br.en a lopsided victory in 
"Eric didn't play his smartest acter, eliminating early errors the other direction." matches," head coach Bob to subdue Conrad Nowak, 6-4, Patterson took these words to Bayliss said. "But he had the 6-3. heart after the 5-1 win over the guts, heart and character to "I had a little trouble early Blue Demons and a mid-day come out on top." but then focused on making break where DePaul defeated 
With all eyes on him, the him lose," Rothschild comment­Miami 4-2. The junior came out senior defeated DePaul's ed. strong and steamrolled exhausted Dan Auger 6-0, 6-7, Andy Warford, playing at No. Tunisian Amin Nabli 6-0, 6-2. 6-2. 5, did not play his best match "I had a lot of fun out them," 
In the afternoon portion but toughed it out against Rory Patterson replied. against Miami, Enloe stretched McKinney. The North Dakota But fun wasn't the only the match into the dinner native gained the fourth Notre change in his play. hours. In front of a fan club Dame win, 6-4, 6-3. "I changed my backhand that more resembled a wrestle­"He wasn't as sharp as what return, and that made a big dif­mania crowd than tennis fans, we would have liked," Bayliss ference," Patterson said. Enloe finally overcame Yvon said. "But he sucked it up down Rothsehild and Saehire again Edoumou, 4-6, 6-3, 7-5. the stretch to win." made monstrous strides for the 
The rest of the Irish, howev­Because Jakub Pietrowski sat Irish by defeating two of 
er, had a much easier and more out in the DePaul match nurs­Miami's best. Saehire brr.ezed 
concise time in front of a sup­ing a sore elbow, Vijay by Champy llalim, 6-3, 6-2, and 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum 

portive crowd. 
Notre Dame's tennis team went 2-0 over the weekend at the Eck Freeman bumped up the line­
see M. TENNIS I page 18Tennis Pavilion. Ryan Sachire, playing at the up. The strategy proved a sue-

• 
Men's Basketball, 

Hockey, 
vs. Villanova, 

vs. Michigan, 


Davie's Babies? 
Jan. 28, 7:30 p.m. 

Jan. 30, 7 p.m. 

Recrui ti rw '98
L'> ~ 

The Observer looks at the recruits 
• 
• 
Women's Basketball, 

Swimming and Diving, 
likely to sign with the Irish this 
ar Villanova, 

vs. DePauw,
sc 
February

Jan. 30, 7:30 p.m. 
Jan. 28, 7:30p.m. 

Page 12 








