-~---~------------­
rv,-, Virginia •fu;.l. 
FIN IRSH 
VOl XXXII NO. 18 
• Scene canvasses Notre Dame's parking lots to sample school spirit found on license plates. 
Scene· 11-12 


THE 
FRIDAY FEATURE 
• Today the U.S. Senate will vote to overturn President Clinton's veto of the late-term abortion ban. 
World &Nation • 5 

Friday 
SEPTEMBER 
18, 1998 

WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 

Students abroad face up to terrorist dangers 
Mailing warns Londoners 

By TIM LOGAN Assistant News Editor 
Following the August bombings of U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania and the President Clinton's subse­quent military retaliation against the suspected ter­rorists, Notre Dame's London Program has taken 
see LETTER I page 4 

ing out for our well-being," Wade Laffey, a junior in London, said. "It's more of a reminder list." 
see SCARED I page 4 

AFP Photo 
Violence like the March 1994 IRA mortar attack that destroyed this car at London's Heathrow Airport are among the terrorist dangers Notre Dame students studying abroad were recently warned about. 
By LAURA PETELLE 
London Correspondent 
Just after the United States bombed Sudan and Pakistan. Notre Dame students in the London Program received a memo detailing the precaution­ary measures they should l'ol­low to avoid becoming terrorist targets. 
The memo elicited mixed reviews from the students in the program. 
"It was timely, but it made us scared of more than it should have," said junior Jen Crone. "It was kind of overreacting." 
Junior Brendan Crimmins agreed, "It was kind of intimi­dating. [But] I don't feel threat­ened here." 
Other students felt it was a reminder of what they already knew. 
."It made me a little more aware," said junior Caroline Kent. "But they had talked to us a lot in the [orientation] meetings about terrorism." 
"It's just common sense, look­

• NEWS ANAlYSIS 

Merritt: Russian economic woes may only worsen 
By CH IUS KUSEK One of the fundamental causes of Nt·ws Writer sueh a bleak outlook for Hussia is that the nation is CUI"I'ently unable to pay all 
Tlw Hussian tH'.onomy is in grave dan­of its debts. g~•r, acrording to assistant professor of When Hussia opened its borders to govPrnnwnt Martha Merritt. capitalist interests, many companies 
Bussia"s cnHlit has bonn callnd into jump1~d at tlw chance to invest. Now quPstion, llwir debts that tho Hussian economy is troubled 
are  many,  and  R-"1  ::W·1111-0 ·~  and interest rates are  rising, many of  
invl'stors  arn  quiekly  those same companies are fleeing.  
laking rover and bark­ • "Russian  One key  to  halting this trend away  
ing  away  from  tho  bank's severe  from Hussian markets is tho policy deci­ 
rngion.  debt deepens"  sions of' the International Monetary  
"Investors in  Bussia  p.5  Fund (IMF). IMF support may go a long  
arn  disappointed and  way towards helping solve Hussia's cur­ 

will nxnrcisn morn cau-rent cconomie troubles, Mnrritt tion," said Merritt, a f1dlow ol' both the explained. A more pertin1mt. question. llnlnn K11llogg and .Joan B. Krok insti­however, asks whether Hussian credit is lutPs. 1~ven strong enough to allow for 
She pointed out that nvnn il' tho loss of international support. 
conl'idnnee  in  On  this  issue,  
llussian markets is  Merritt pointed out  
not initially felt by tlw avnrag1~ Hussian,  'THE RUSSIAN PEOPLE HAVE SUF­ the Hussian per­spective must be  
tho  loss  or eapital  FERED UNDER QUASI-REFORMS  given weighty  con­ 
will  hurt  them  all  AND WILL CONTINUE TO SUFFER  sideration  in  the  
grPatly in the future.  decision  making  
In  tlH~  past  fe w  UNDER QUASI-RETRENCHMENT.'  procoss.  
months, tho  Hussian  "Everyone's best  
economy has under­gone gn~at trauma.  MA!lT/1!1 MHI/Hf"/T  interest is to avoid dnl'ault," she said.  
Tlw  valuo  of  the  ASSISTANT 1'/WPESSO// OF GOVERNMENT  While the credi­ 
rubin has fallen  4:~  tors do want to col­ 

percent, while priees have rison dra­loc:t their loan payments, she predicts matically. This sharp currency devalua­they will be very l'lexible in finding the tion, coupled with severe inl'lation, best way to do so. Because their main moans nothing but won for the Hussian goal is to get their money, Hussia has public:. Hussia's economic future looks grim. Merritt stated. 
see RUSSIA I page 4 
Enjoy the weather, while you can. 

Friday, September 18, 1998
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 

Student involved with bank robbery in police custody
leader? 
I believe our society is crumbling at its roots. and I've got a couple of reasons for that belief. One of them is Jerry Springer and everything he represents. Another is the widespread use of those """":'~~~~~~~ 
motorized lollipops that you don't even have to suck on -they make sugar consumption more passive and Amerieans more fat. 
But the most substan­tial reason for the 

demise of Ameriean Sarah Hiltz society and culture is, 
Associate News Editor
according to me, Bill 
Clinton. Not only is he 
the leader of America, but he is also more or 
less the leader of the world. Yet he does 
things that are, when applied to any other 
person, inexcusable. 
Many people will argue that what he does 
with his personal life does not reflect his pro­
fessional ability and prowess. In many cases, 
I agree with this notion. As long as one keeps 
the professional and personal spheres sepa­
rate, l have always said, one can not be 
accused of misappropriation of power. 
But the world of politics brings to the sur­
face a loophole -an out elause that blurs 
the distinction between the two aforemen­
tioned spheres. It gets sticky when the person 
of questionable personal ethics -Clinton in 
this ease -is supposed to be representing a 
whole heterogeneous group of people. That 
group ineludes me. 
It could not be more blatantly obvious to 
me that Bill Clinton has some serious issues 
with sexuality. I lost some respect for him 
when I found out that he was goofing around 
with various women, but I lost even more 
when he denied it repeatedly on national 
television. only to be eventually revealed as 
the lewd louse that he is. He lacks not only 
self-control, but also the conviction and 
integrity to admit what he did. 
His affairs and subsequent lies also give me 
the impression that he is guilty of a mueh 
more sinister and ugly crime -disrespect for 
women. lie disrespected the First Lady by 
cheating on her. and he disrespected his vari­
ous girlfriends (to be polite) by having sexual 
relations with them and then throwing them 
to the wolves. And while I'm sure that Monica 
Lewinsky is not exactly a model of humility 
and purity. Bill's antics that coupled cigars 
and phone calls with senators disgusted me 
to the core. God help anyone whose views of 
women and sexuality are as base as that. 
Now, why should I, a young, single woman 
trying to finally figure out what men are all 
about, feel any loyalty or patriotism for this 
man'? The fact is, I don't. I now see him as a 
licentious, red-faced. lying, stuttering old 
man with a pile of dirty laundry that would 
tie up St. Michael's for weeks. In fact, Bill 
Clinton embodies the very qualities that girls 
are taught to fear and avoid. 
I shuddered when I heard that Clinton's 
approval rating had hardly been affected by 
the release of the Starr report. I wonder how 
many people would "approve" of this kind of 
behavior from their sons, brothers, fathers or 
friends. 
Call me idealistic, call me a feminist, I don't 
care. I gladly welcome these terms. 
Just don't call me the ideal American, if 
your definition has anything to do with our 
president. 
The uiews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TODAY's STAFf 
News Scene Derek Betcher John Daily Christine Kraly Graphics 
Brad Untiedt Joe Mueller Sports Production Bill Hart M. Shannon Ryan 
Mike Connolly 
Lab Tech Viewpoint 
John Daily Colleen Gaughen Spencer Stdko 
Tho Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday ex\':cpt during exam and vacation period!\. The Ob~erver is a member of dH: A...suciared PreM•. All reproducrion righr~ arc reserved. 

BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 
A Tuesday afternoon bank robbery ended with one suspect dead and another suspect, an IU student, in police custody. 
Bloomington police are investigating tho dead man's involvement in several other local robberies. 
Police identified the student as sophomore Timothy Jocie, 20, who also works for IU Campus Card Services. The second suspect was identified as Bloomington resident Michael Bradack. 
The robbery occurred at NBD Bank, and police recovered about $20,000 from the front seat of the suspects' vehicle. 
Joeic was charged Wednesday with bank robbery, said FBI Special Agent Robert Molina. He was transported Tuesday around 10:30 p.m. to a feder­al holding facility in Indianapolis. 
Around 1:30 p.m., a male wearing a 
cost saving conservation strategies. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
f c.._ !  ,/ ,.~  H  L  
Friday  ~83  60  
Saturday  ~85  62  
Sunday  Q, 84 65  
Monday  Q, 74 63  
Tuesday  ~ '' '' '  76 59  

8,Q,~48Q!)~d 
Showers T-storms Rain Flumes Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 

black ski cap, black elothing and sun­glasses entered the bank and cocked a Browning-type 9 mm pistol, said Bill Blackketter of NBD corporate investi­gations. The suspect also was carrying a dark green backpack. 
The man told the four or five cus­tomers and five employees in the bank, "Put your hands up," Blackketter said. He then handed the bag to two tellers, who emptied their cash drawers into it. 
A customer at the drive-up window during the time of the robbery, junior Mike Weaver, noticed something wrong. 

"All of a sudden, the teller stopped talking," Weaver said. "When I looked up, [the tellerj had his back to me. There was a guy in there waving a gun and holding a bag." 
Weaver drove next door to A.G. Edwards and Sons Ine., an investment advisory service, and told the recep­tionist to call police. 
"I took a step outside and was look­ing at the bank when the guy came running out, kind of toward me," Weaver said. 
The suspect l1ed through the front doors of the bank and turned right toward a waiting black Jeep Grand Cherokee, Blackketter said. The sus­pect got into the ear, where Jocic was waiting in the vehicle's driver-side seat, Bloomington Police Capt. William Parker said. The vehicle sped through an alley toward College Mall. 
• DUKE UNIVERSITY 
Police seize pornographic materials 
DURHAM, N.C. 

Officials gave more detailed information Tuesday about the seizure of materials from a third floor Trent Dormitory room Monday afternoon. Officers from the Financial Crimes Unit of the State Bureau of Investigation, which handles computer crimes, raided the room of a Trinity sophomore as part of an investigation of child pornography, said Maj. Hobert Dean of the Duke University Police Department. The student declined comment. Dean said Campus Police were contacted at about 1:00 p.m. Tuesday about the imminent serving of the warrant. SBI officials seized one IBM laptop computer, a color printer, several floppy disks, photographs, three writable COs and one object of adult entertainment, Dean said. SBI Special Agent in Charge Curtis Ellis said no charges have been filed and the investigation is still ongoing. "We received information from another out-of-state state law enforcement agency that child pornography was being distributed," he said. 
• WEST VIRGINIA UNIVERSITY 
WVU fails to make conservation list 
MORGANTOWN. W.V. 
This year West Virginia University failed to hold on to its reign as our nation's top party school. While slipping in its ranks as a school for partying, WVU also failed to make the list of college campuses involved in multimillion dollar conservation efforts. The National Wildlife Federation recently released a new report called "Green Investment, Green Return: How Practical Conservation Projects Save Millions on America's Campuses." The report shows how a small percentage of our nation's colleges accomplished the feat of saving millions of dollars through conservation aets."The fact is, the actions being taken on these campus­es are actually improving the environment and the finan­cial condition of the institution, often in very dramatic ways," NWF President Mark Van Putten said. The report highlights 15 public and private campuses involved in 23 
• RUTGERS UNIVERSITY 
Man arrested for burglary, abduction 
NEW BRUNSWICK, N.J. 
An arrest was made Tuesday in the robbery of eight New Brunswick residents, including a 22-year-old university stu­dent, whom he abducted. Mitchell Joran, 30, of Franklin is being held on $500,000 bail at the Middlesex County Adult Corrections Center on 31 separate counts. Joran is being held on one count of second degree burglary, one count of possession of a weapon for unlawful purposes. one count of possession of a weapon, one count of carjacking, eight counts of kidnapping, eight counts of robbery, eight counts of terroristic threats, two counts of aggravated sexual assault and one count of aggravated sexual conduct. Terroristic threats are when someone threatens to terrorize another or to kill another, Lt. Les Levine of the New Brunswick Police Department said. Terroristic threats are more serious than harassment and require imminent danger to a person's life. Levine said. Joran sexually assaulted at least one of the people tied in the room, Levine said. 
• UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS 
UT officials to discuss rise in enrollment 
AUSTIN, Texas 
Although the increase in the university's total enroll­ment was kept relatively in cheek this year. work still must be done to keep it from threatening the quality of education, UT administrators said Tuesday. Fall 1998 total enrollment increased to 48,917 -a rise of only 60 students from last year. However, from fall 1996 to fall 1997. student enrollment increased by over 800 -from 48,008 to 48,857. Stephen Monti, provost ad interim. said maintaining enrollment figures closer to 48,000 is impor­tant to provide students the best aeeess to faculty, staff and facilities. "It's hard to make drastie changes," Monti said. "But as it grows the quality of the education we offer will be diminished." Bruce Walker. UT director of admis­sions, said the fall enrollment figures will allow the uni­versity to kick off discussions on how to maintain ideal 
enrollment levels. 
• NATIONAl WEATHER 

Lr Friday's te•ueratures 

f-riday, Seprember J8, 1998 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Sayre addresses philosophical side of the soul 
By RUTH SNELL 
News Writer 
"Philosophy is rnplntn with things philosoplwrs have to say about tlw soul." said Patti Sayrn, chair and associate pro­l'nssor of philosophy at Saint Mary's Collngn. 
llnr Thur·sday lneturn, "So Dt11~p is tho Mnasurn," foeus11d on thn soul !'rom a philosophi­cal pnrspnetive. It was part ol' tlw "Landscape of tlw Soul" st~rit~s highlightnd this l'all at Saint Mary's. 
Tlw landseapn or tlw soul, Sayrn notnd. can t~itlwr bn eon­sidorl~d tlw "shapn and eon­tour of tlw soul," or the "land­
seape in which souls find 
themselves." 
Sayre then gave a brief histo­ry of metaphors concerning the intnrnal landscape of the soul. 
The first metaphor was of the soul as a battlefield. Put forth by Plato in "The Hepublic", the soul could be thought of as three parts ­rational, irrational, and medi­ating-all vying for control. 
A "peaceable kingdom" was tho second motaphor that Sayre usml. In the hierarchy of the soul. reason governs desire, and the will moves desire in reason's direetion. 
Sayre's third metaphor was 


New World Wide Web Administrator named 
Spe(ial to The Observer 
Thomas Monaghan, most recently director of interactive content for University Neteasting, Inc., has been appointed to the newly created position of World Wido Web administrator at the University of Notr·e Dame. 
A 19R8 graduatn of the University with a bachelor's degree in finance, Monaghan will b~1 responsible !'or all aspects of tho design, develop­ment, enhancement and main· 
Advance Sales 
S4.00 All Shows Before 6 pm 
Rush Hour (R) SRD 11:45 12:10 2:00 2:45 4:45 5:30 7:20 7:50 9:40 10:20 
Rounders (R) SRD 1:10 4:30 7:15 10:00 Knock Off (R) SRD 11:30 1:50 4:40 7:00 9:20 Saving Private Ryan (R) SRD 12:30 1:30 4:00 5:00 8:00 9:00 Snake Eyes (R) SRD 12:20 2:50 5:30 8:05 10:25 Halloween H20 (R) 1:20 3:30 5:40 8:10 10:40 Annageddon (PG-13) SR 12:50 4:20 8:15 One True Thing (R) DTS 12:45 4:10 7:05 10:10 Something About Mary (R) SRD 12:00 2:35 5:10 7:45 10:15 Ever After (PG-13) SRD 12:40 3:50 6:45 9:30 Dr. Dolittle (PG-13) SR 12:15 2:20 4:35 6:50 9:15 Lethal Weapon 4 (R) SRD 1:40 5:05 7:50 10:30 Blade (R) SRD 1:15 4:15 7:10 9:50 Dead Man on Campus (R) SRD 11:50 2:10 5:00 7:30 9:45 
All Stadium Seating • All Digital Sound 
SHOWPLACE 16 
tenance of Wob pages for use by Notre Dame's students, fac­ulty and staff, as well as various public clients. 
Prior to joining University Netcasting. Monaghan was co• coordinator of tHchnology for Notre Dame's DeBartolo Hall from 1993-96, assisting in the management or hardware and software, upgrading and overall technological support. DeBartolo Hall is considered one of the most technologieally advanced teaching and learning centers in higher education. 


of the soul as a mirror. "A well-ordered soul gives glimpse into the universe," said Sayre. "It is a microcosm, an image of thll macrocosm." 
Quoting Bonaventure, Sayre said, "Your soul has a three­fold power, consider then the operation and functions of these three powers, and you will be..able to see God in your­selves. 
Sayre talked about the soul's possible external landscapes -at horne, in prison, or in exile. 
A soul "trapped inside your own conscious experiences," aceording to Sayre, is one imprisoned in the body. 
Each of these metaphors can be related to contemporary life and views of the soul. 
Sayre gave her academic life as an example of the soul as a peaceable kingdom. "There arc moments when you're thoroughly absorbed in what you are doing," said Sayre. "Every bit is focused on some­thing that is giving great joy." 
Sayre also explained the mir­ror metaphor with examples. She noted, "If I feel happy, I live in a happy world. I feel very much at home ... Things feel right." The same is also true with unhappiness. 
Sayre emphasized that the metaphors offered arc only metaphors and not theories. "They don't tic things up and don't give any truths," she said. Beeause they are only metaphors, Sayre explained, they ean not be held too tightly because they are only applica­ble in particular places. 
Looking for the soul, or its proper interpretation, is like "finding some inexhaustible depth in another person or ourselves." 
"The soul cannot be cap­tured, and so it is our moral duty not to trap it lin our own interpretations)." said SayrP. ''I'm pretty sure it's the kind of thing we can't ever fully know." 

Rally features national labor leader 
By LAURA ROMPF 
News Writer 
This Sunday "Working Families Supporting Friends of Labor," a rally delayed from Labor Day, will be held in South Bend and will feature Linda Chavez-Thompson, the vice president of the American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organization, as a guest speaker. 
"The rally's purpose is to show the great eoneern of labor workers about the falling of living eonditions," said Father Patrick Sullivan, asso­ciate professor of sociology. 
Sunday's rally will take place from noon to 3 p.m. at the UAW Local 5, located on 1426 South Main Street in South Bend. 
Lack of job security and an increase in part-time labor 
without benefits have deep­ened workers' concerns about the labor market, according to Sullivan. He explained that these concerns worsen as pen­sion and health care benefits are taken away by manage­
'THE RALLY'S PURPOSE 
IS TO SHOW THE GREAT CONCERN OF LABOR 
WORKERS ABOUT THE 
FALLING OF LIVING CONDI­
TIONS.' 
FAT/fER PATRICK SULLIVAN 
ment. 
"All of this is caught up in global competition," Sullivan said, commenting on the prae­tice of sending jobs abroad to 

CLASS OF 2000 GOLF SCRAMBLE!! 

lower paid foreign workers. 
Organizers of Sunday's rally hope to raise discussion of these concerns through its panel of speakers. 
Chavez-Thompson works at the AFL-CIO national head­quarters in Washington, D.C. and has actively supported labor rights unions throughout her career. 
Other scheduled speakers include Steven Luecke, the mayor of South Bend; Patrick Bali(W, an Indiana state repre­sentative; Cheryl Little, candi­date for Indiana secretary of state; and Indiana AFL-CIO officers .Jerry Paynn and Ken Zeller. 

Labor activists hope to relay the messagn to management that there are "ways to Idol this bntter, instead ol' doing away with workers' concerns," Sullivan said. 


1st Prize Color TV 
Other Prizes Include: -2nd Place Team -3rd Place Team 
-Worst Team -Long Drive -Closest to the Pin $36 per 4 person team, call Erich or Mike @ 4 x 3546 Sunday, September 20th at Notre Dame * one free sleeve of golf balls per entering player, anyone can enter 
Sponsored by: 
{JRJcEWATERHOUsf[aJPERS.I 
FRIDAY  S'UNDAY  
vs.  Rutg,ers  VS'. Villanova  
Sept. 18th 7:30pm  S:e,pt-20,th l:OOp,m  
FREE Admission For Facu ·  & Students  


page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, September 18, 1998 





Scared 
continued from page 1 
Most students are following a majority of the guidelines set forth in the memo, but some of the rules could prove problemat­ic. 
One guideline says, "Don't wear clothes that would explicit­ly identify you as an American student. Avoid jackets, T -shirts, and sweatshirts with names of universities, sports teams or cities on them. Don't wear your baseball cap. (In short, adopt a more European style of dress.)" 
Another guideline tells stu­dents. "Don't travel alone, or in large groups. Preferably walk in groups of 4-6." 
"I sometimes am forced to walk to and from class by myself," said Crimmins. "(And! I didn't go out and by a whole new wardrobe or anything." 
Crone says that she obeys "some of it. I do travel alone, but not at night." 
"I usually only walk with one or two other people," said Kent, "or even by myself. but not at night." 
Some students said the memo frightened them. 
"That memo made me overly paranoid," said junior Alison Main. ''I'm a hyper-conscious person, and these things appear too obvious to me, and when they are pointed out to us in a bright purple memo, it makes me feel more insecure." 
Most students said they felt safer on the Notre Dame campus than in London. but also said they didn't feel particularly at risk. 
But the memo also missed some of its intended audience ­a few students admitted they didn't bother to read it. 
Thank you for reading The Observer. We try hard to make it a good paper. 
College Event: Lecture and reading by SEAMUS DEANE Donald and Marilyn Keough Chair for Irish Studies and author of the novel "Reading in the Dark" 
Telling the Time; Words and Pictures 
Nineteenth Century Gallery, Snite Museum of Art Monday, September 21, 1998 4:15P.M. Free and Open to the Public 


Letter 
continued from page 1 
extra precautions to protect its students this semester. 
A letter has been distributed to all participants in the London Program detailing "precautionary measures" for students to take in order to increase their safety while abroad. Some suggestions included in the letter are instructions to travel in groups of four to six at all times, to "adopt a more European style of dress," and to avoid gather­ing outside the Notre Dame classroom and residence buildings. 
No administrators from the London program were avail­able for comment. 
The State Department released a "Worldwide Caution" on Sept. 4 reminding American citizens to maintain a high level of awareness and take appropriate steps to prac­tice safe behavior. The State Department noted that the "potential for retaliatory acts against Americans and American interests exists," in the wake of the U.S. strikes on suspected terrorist camps in Afghanistan and Sudan. 
The camps are operated by Osama bin Ladin, a Saudi mil­lionaire suspected of master­minding the embassy bomb­ings. He has called for a holy war against Americans for several years. 
"The ruling to kill the Americans and their allies ­civilian and military -is an individual duty for every Muslim who can do it in any country in which it can be done," said a statement writ­ten by bin Ladin's group. 

market is not restored, the place, she asserted.

Russia 
suffering will not be alleviat-Massive improvements in 
-ed. Investors will continue to  Russia's financial sector and  
continued from page 1  back away if Russia is unable  industrial infrastucture will  
to pay their debts.  have to take place to begin to  
the  IMF  "over  a  barrel,"  In  the  current economic  right  the  troubled  giant.  
Merritt noted. She predicts  environment, investing in the  Special attention will go to  
that creditors will "bend over  eastern markets is  seen  as  ensure  efficiency in  these  
backwards" to meet the needs  "more promising" than invest- reforms.  Improvements in  

of the ;::::=====:::;-----------------regulatory and admin-
R u s s i an economy.
As far as 
governmen­tal policy is concerned, Merritt sees the power current I y flowing away from the Russian central government towards the regional govern­ment. 
The current prime minister, Yevgeny Primakov, holds a fairly centrist position and is willing to compromise with the IMF. He is also popular among regional public figures, Merritt noted. 
While President Yeltsin is consulted on policy decisions, "his position is growing weak­er, due in part to failing health," she said. 
Merritt did voice concern for Russian citizens' stake in all of the turmoil. While interest rates were strictly controlled by the communist regime and were artificially kept down in by the infant capitalist policy makers, they have recently risen rapidly. This, along with the devaluation of the ruble, has made it very difficult for many Russian families to meet their needs. Many localities are still controlling the prices of basic foodstuffs. This, at least, makes it possible for Russians to eat. 
"The Russian people have suffered under quasi-reform and will continue to suffer under quasi-retrenchment," she said. 
The solutions to Russia's problems are slightly clearer: If confidence in the Russian 






271-0300 
(Memorize this number-Its half your eradesJ 
Student Specials 
large 1ToPPing 
14~~ 



$6.45 
only valid @ above location • across from Linebacker 
istrative government  
'INVFSTORS IN RUSSIA ARE DISAP- agencies will also be  
necessary.  
POINTED AND NEED TO EXERCISE  Notre Dame's Kellogg  
MORE CAUTION.'  Institute will be span- 
soring a  round table  
discussion focusing  on  
MARTHA MERR/17'  Russia's  economic  
future to examine this  

ment in the Russian market, issue and the specific changes Merritt continued. In order to and solutions that are avail-change that environment, dra-able. This will be held on matic changes have to take Monday at 4:15p.m. 

Potential of Earning $145.00 per month for 2 to 4 hours per week of your time. You choose your own schedule. 
Plasma Donations Save Lives Come Donate Today!! 
Call 234-6010 and ask for Toni -or stop and see us at 515 Lincolnway West South Bend, IN. 

Extra large 1TOPPing 16~~ 


$7.45 
.. 0 EG .. 


Friday, Sc:ptcrnhcr 18, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES pageS 
• 
~ee ~Ils logging protester 
FOHTUNA. Calif. 

An Earth First! artivist was struck in tlw !wad and kilil•d by a falling trt1P Thursday whiiP trying lo block tiH• logging of ancinnl rPdwoods. tlw radical nnvironmnntal group said. Till' group said David Chain was stand­ing among n1dwoods marknd for logging and trying to dissuadn trPP ftdlnrs wlwn lw was kilil·d. A fpllow protnstnr who lkd tlw scPIW rPportPd that thn impact c.racknd optm Chain's skull. said l·:arth First! co-foundnr Daryl ChnrnPy, who said slwril'l"s dnputins told thP group lw diPd at the srn1w. "It's Pasy to gl'l hit by a ti'I1P out thPrt1," Clwrrwy said. "Evnn for PXJWriPncnd ac.tivists or sna­sorwd pnopiP, it doPsn't rnattnr." 
Ex-fire captain heads to jail 
LOS AN<;J·:U·:S. Calif. 

A formnr arson invPstigator was snn­tt'IH'Pd to lifn in prison Thursday (ill' setting a lin· that kiiiPd four pPopln in a casn nnarly idPntiral to IIIli' lw wrotP about in his manu­script for a novPI. John Orr. 49, also was ordPrPd to pay $90,000 in rnstitution. liP was found guilty of rnurd!)r in a 19X4 blazn at a South l'asadPilil hardware storn. Orr was prnviously ronvictnd of 20 ot.lwr arson l'in•s. on11 of which darnagnd (J7 homns in c;I!'IHlaln. wlwrn lw was a lirn captain. In Orr's unsold nwnusrript, titled "Points of Origin." a l'irnl'ightnr torches businesses across California for sexual pleasure. llis targPts ineludn a Pasadena hardware store, wlwrn fiv11 pnopl11 din. "The enormity of the ddnndant's crimes should not bounderstat­ml." Judgo Hobert Perry said. 
Court charges fugitive in Nairobi bombing 
NEW YOHK. N.Y. 

Thn U.S. govnrnnwnt offered a $2 million n1ward Thursday !'or a fugitivo chargod with killing 12 Anwricans by helping plan the 
U.S. 
Embassy bombing in Kenya. The fugi­tivn. identified as llaroun Fazil. is the third suspnct charged publicly in U.S. District Court in Manhattan in the Aug. 7 bombing. 

U.S. 
Attorney Ma1·y Jo White said at a news eonf'nrenn~ that Fazil. beli£wed to be in his mid-20s, played "a vnry signilicant role" in thn bombing whieh killed 247 people, including tlw 12 Americans, and injured thousands more. Slw said a reward of up to $2 million was being offered by the State 1>11partmnnt for Fazil's capture. "We now 1wnd thn hnlp of the public internationally," said Lowis Schiliro, assistant din1etor in eharg11 of thn New York FBI office. 


Market Watch: 9/18 
Dow 
Nasdaq: 1646.25

}ONES 
-43.66 Up: NYSE:


7,873.77 83!} 
506.31 
-11.74 AMEX:

ij 
Ill 
Down:
621.25 
2240
·7.88 S&P 500: 1018.87 
Composite
-26.61 

Volume:-216.00 822,383,760 
MOST TRADED STOCKS 

I U~J·,~~:a· llftil u ~~h rtiOI:~H•I I SiOIIS l'lllfl· 
I>F.I.l. COMPUTER  PF.I.I.  ·1.9375  ·0.0625  5K.I25  
CISC:O SYSTFMS  csco  -.1.1250  .5.0000  61.5  
LUCENT TI'Cll I~C  LU  -4.2500  +2.0625  72.125  
t;ILlElTE CO  G  ·.UI25  +I.H 125  .l6.H7.1  
INTEL CORP  INn:  -2.0625  +0.9.175  K:l.OO  
,\I.<. A rEI. St\  t\1.11  ·12.0625  .IJ..l750  1~.25  
\l'IJR  SPY  -.!.0000  +IUI25  102.00  
YilllllO INC  YllllO  ·.1 ..!125  ·1.1250  ~0.0625  
ill'! H.l.O IORlllll'·t\  t\1'01.  -7.6875  ·0.0625  2~.0625  
Mll:HOSOFr COHI'  MSFr  ·.1.2500  + I.Oh25  104.9:!75  

• _ISSIA 


KRT Photo 

A Russian woman walks past a sign displaying today's foreign currency prices for the Russian ruble against the U.S. dollar. 

Russian bank's severe debt deepens 
ASSOCIATED PHESS 
MOSCOW 
In the universe of Hussian banks, SBS-Agro stood out for all the services it offered from its branch inside the parliament building and those in crumbling towns far from Moscow's glitter. 
Today, SBS-Agro, the country's second-biggest savings bank, is about $2 billion in debt. And cus­tomer service amounts to icy exchanges such as those clogging a hotline the Komsomolskaya Pravda daily set up recently between depositors who can't get their money and SBS-Agro chief Alexander Smolensky. 
"I understand, you're not disturbed that I'm left with no work and I need money. But then. I'm not disturbed by your problems," fumed a caller who identified her­self as Natalia Valentinovna. 
"We have a contract ­
kindly fullill it!" 
"You're absolutely right. There's a judicial solution. file a suit," Smolensky responded, according to the paper's transcript. Few callers would be led down that path; for average Russians, the possibility of successfully going to court are nil. 
SBS-Agro is among hun­dreds of commercial banks brought to the brink of bankruptcy last month in Russia's deepest financial crisis since the collapse of the Soviet Union. Most have been powerless to cope: Undercapitalized and under-regulated, they've also been under-managed. Even in the strongest banks, managers had just five to seven years' experience, noted Neil Parison, the Moscow representative of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. 

It's been a bruising fall for a bank that was a pioneer in providing services cus­tomers wanted. In a country where people still don't have checkbooks and most transactions are cash, SBS­Agro was the first private bank to offer accounts to individuals -and it won the confidence of 5.7 million people. 
It also was the first to issue a large number of debit cards and develop a wide network of cash machines. And it was one of the few banks that made loans to compa­nies that weren't part of its owner's business empire. Most Hussian banks were formed by large financial groups to funnel money into their other business activi­ties. 
"Banking was its busi­ness," said Charles Ryan, CEO of Moscow's United Financial Group, an invest­ment bank. 
Today. SBS-Agro is in a standoff with Russia's Central Bank. The Central Bank imposed temporary administration over SBS­Agro and called for it to bn nationalized, suspncting it of stripping assets to avoid punitive lawsuits and the confiscation of its property. SBS-Agro won't let auditors in the door and even got an injunction from a regional court. Bank spokesman Eduard Krasnyansky said the asset-stripping allega­tion was absurd. 
"We have enough assets to pay our debts three or four times over," Krasnyansky told The Associated Press. lie said the Central Bank's cam­paign to nationalize the bank stemmed from SBS­Agro's being "the sweetest morsel" in the banking sys­tem. 

Senate will vote today on abortion veto 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
Senate Republicans tried to make the case Thursday for overriding Presidtmt Clinton's Vt~to of a late­term abortion ban, describing the procedure as an unnecessary "rogue" operation that endangers women's lives and health. 
'"It's a dangerous procedure being pt~rformed every day on the fringe, outside of mainstream medicine," charged Sen. Bill Frist, H-Tenn., the only medical doctor sel'ving in the chamber. 
The Senate was scheduled to vote Friday on the override. Senators passed the bill, 64-36, in May 1997. but was three votes short of the two­thirds majority needed for overrides when all 100 senators are present and voting, The House voted, 296­132, in July to reject Clinton's veto. Supporters were cautious, but noted that support for the bill has grown with each Senate tally, starting with 54 votes in December 1995, rising to 58 in September 1996 and ending with 64 last year. 

"I hope that some senators will have had a change or heart since then,'' said Sen. Christopher "Kit~ Bond, R-Mo. "This is a horrible pro­cedure." 
Abortion rights advocates said they were confident the veto would stand. The bill, sponsored by Sen. Rick Santorum. H-Pa.. and Hep.Charles Canady, H-Fia., would outlaw the proeedure, ealled ''par­tial-birth" abortion by its critics, except when needtHI to save thn woman's life. 
Violators face imprisonment, fines and lawsuits. Abortion rights advo­cates, including Clinton, maintain that the bill is unconstitutional because it makes no exception for when a woman's health is jeopar­dized by continuing a pregnancy. 

r---------------------------------------·~----------­
page 6 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Friday, September 18, 1998 
Search continues for crew of crashed helicopter 

Associated Press 
CAMP PENDLETON, Calif. 
Rescue crews continued their search Thursday for the four-man crew of a Marine Corps helicopter that plunged into the Pacific Ocean during night training maneuvers. 
Nearly 24 hours after the crash, only a few pieces of the UH -1 H uey helicopter had been recovered, Camp Pendleton spokeswoman Lt. Nancy Olson said. No bodies had been found. 
The accident happened about 12 miles off the Southern California coast at Oceanside, just north of San Diego, at 
8:20 p.m. Wednesday, Gunnery Sgt. Lee Tibbetts said. 
The UH-1 Huey helicopter was practic­ing takeoff and-landing maneuvers from the USS Rushmore, he said. 
The pilot, co-pilot and two crew mem­bers were missing. The men were with the Marine Light Attack Helicopter 

Have friends with upcoming birthdays? Have a laugh and give them a birthday ad in The Observer. Call the advertising department at 1-6900. 
Innovate. 
.
...
.., 
> 
0 
u 
~ 
0 

Improve eves. 

At Abbott laboratories, everything we do is directed toward one goal: to improve lives. In fact, since 1888, Abbott has been producing innovative health care products and services that have been improving people's lives worldwide. And, with more than 54,000 dedicated employees and a presence in more than 130 countries, our products and services are as diverse as those creating them. Our employees contribute a wide variety of opinions, perspectives, backgrounds, and experiences. Yet they share a common objective: the desire to make a difference. From pharmaceuticals and diagnostics to nutritionals and hospital-related products, our varied businesses have been making a significant difference in the health care industry and in people's lives. With annual sales at $12 billion and one of the best long-term financial performance records in the corporate world, we intend to continue providing quality health care products far into the future. 
You too, can make a difference with a career at Abbott laboratories. We are seeking talented students in the following disciplines: Research & Development, Production/Operations, Sales & Marketing/Business Development, Engineering, Information Technology, Finance and Accounting/Business, and Human Resources. 
Make a difference in the world. Join the team dedicated to improving lives. 
a 
ABBOTT 
LABORATORIES 

Quellty Hulth c.,.. Worldwide 
www.abbott.com 
Abbott will be at the MBA/Undergrad Career Fair on 9/17 and Industry Day on 9/23. Students unable to meet with Abbott at these events may e-mail a resume to: www.abbottcom/career. Equal Opportunity Employer. 

~·~~~~~~~~~· 
•  ~ NoTRE DAME~W APARTMENTS ~ •ONLY AFEW LEFT!! •Conveniently located 4blocks from Campus •Spacious 2Bedroom Apartments and Duplexes Available •September-May Lease or 1Year Lease with a"free" month's rent •Pre-Leasing for Fall of'99 66Tlhe lBesf Val1llle in OU-CamJll>ml Housing Managed By Real Estate Management Corportatior 234-9923  •  



John M~ Marshall's, Inc~ 
Established 1965 
Diamonds Engagement Rings & Wedding Bands 18karat Yellow Gold & Platinum. 
-

Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely with information in our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, 186 pages, 2nd edition, hardbound. 
John M. Marshall 
Jeweler I Gemologist I Mineralogist 
Telephone: 287-1427 Monday -Friday, 10a.m. to 6p.m.KeyBank Building, Suite #101, South Bend, Indiana 46601 
DO 
25 
@A) 
I I 
~ 
~ 
I I 
I 



C»lnly-
Bring your invitation
-

and r~C::~IV'~ 




25~•• 
entire Champion"' purchase. 
Door Prize 



Ha~n~nes Notre Da~ne• Bookstore Sept. 1 a, 1998 6 PITI • 10 PITI 
Squadron 267 at Camp Pendleton. 

"Certainly, we're hoping for the best," Lt. David Nevers said of the search for survivors. 
"Until those marines are found, we're not presuming anything. But. common sense tells you that the longer they're out there, the more chances diminish that they survived." 
The names of the men were not released pending notification of relatives of the accident. 
It was not immediately known that caused the helicopter to plummet into the ocean, or whether it was taking off or landing when the crew experienced trou­ble. Never said visibility was apparently clear and the weather was calm. 
Marine Corps officials declined to dis­close where the helicopter went down except to say the debris found was within a 15-mile radius of where they were searching for the crew. 
They also would not give details on whether the debris was floating in the ocean or submerged when found. 
The Coast Guard, Marine Corps and Navy used helicopters and boats to scour the area all day Thursday. The Third Marine Aircraft Wing, representing about 50 UH -1 Huey helicopters based in the southwestern United States, was placed on temporary stand down Thursday until investigation into the accident was con­cluded, Nevers said. 
The UH-1, made by Bell Helicopter Textron, became a military mainstay as Hueys ferried Americans troops in and out of battle during the Vietnam War. The $4.7 million aircraft is about 57 feet­long, has a 48-foot rotor and can reach speeds of up to 139 mph. 
But the Army's version of the helicopter has encountered problems. In March, the Army and National Guard grounded their fleets of more than 900 UH-1 helicopters after pilots complained that the engines would surge. 
The Varsity Shop Sept. 19, 1998 11 aiTI -5 piTI 

Friday, September 18, 1998 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
SAB plans semester activities Reno faces possible 
ByCARA FORD SAB will also be showing Friday night," for Saint Mary's NcwsWrit<'r "Selena" in Carroll Auditorium and lloly Cross students, Oet. Sept. 27 at 7 p.m. as part of 9, 7:30 p.m. at Holy Cross; and 
contempt charges 
Old fashioned photos, honw­llispanie lleritage month. the showing ol' Disney's 
madn musk videos and live music in the dining hall top tht) list of nvtmts plannml for next Thursday's Twilight Tailgatn, sponsort>d by Saint Mary's Student Activitins Board. 
In addition to planning the tailgaw. SAB gatlwred last night to plan and discuss senwstPr activities. 
Events ineludn guest speaker llimilen Novas at "Cafn con l.tH:Iw," eo-sponsorml by sevm·­al NI>/SMC: organizations and tlw South Bend community to t:eiPbrate llispanie lleritag() month. The pontry rmtding is O!'t. 22 in ()alloway's at 7 p.m. 
Other scheduled events include the Cleveland band 
'WEWANT STUDENTS ON CAMPUS TO REC­OGNIZE THAT SAB IS AN INTEGRAL PART OF CAMPUS 
WIDE ACTIVITIES.' 
JANJlT flonvAm 
"Third Wish," Oct. 8, 8 p.m., at l>alloway's; an outdoor picnic with thn tlwme "A 'lei'-ed back "Mulan," Oct. 10 and 11 at Carroll Auditorium. 
"We want students on earn­pus to recognize that SAB is an integral part of campus wide activities," SAB president .Janet Horvath said. "We hope stu­dent participation continues." 
In an attempt to encourage student participation, SAB pro­vided Saint Mary's students with cards that can be punched at each event. Upon receiving eight punches, stu­dents' names will be placed in a ral1le, making them eligible for prizes at a Christmas party in December. 
.\ 

.r ! 
··... 

The Sausage, Egg and Cheese Biscuit. It's so delicious, it just might turn you into a morning person. 
Our fresh-baked biscuit topped with sizzling sausage, egg and melted cheese tastes so good, it's enough to make anybody happy in the morning. If only getting through the rest ofthe day was as easy. 
(At partic1pat1ng restaurants. During breakfast hours only.) 
The Huddle · LAFortune Studenl Cenler 
BURGER 

KING 
It just tastes better. 
C1998 Burger Ktnq Corporalton Burger Kmg CJrporat1on t$ the exclustvo licensee or the reg1stercd Bun Halves logo trademark. 

[_ __ 
,




r -------------­
I The Sausage, Egg and Cheese Biscuit I 
for just 99 cents

I I 
Present coupon before ordenng. Limit one per customer. Not to be used with other coupons or offers. Void where oroh1bited bv
I I 
law. Cash value 1/1 ODe. State sales tax applicable. Good only at participating restaurants in LaFortune Student Center Expires g(24/08 . CO 1998 Burger King Corporation. 
I 
..-, I
It just tastes better. rf·'=~ 

L 
LaFortune Student Center 
.J 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Hep. Dan Burton has filed a House resolution recommending Attorney General .Janet Heno be held in contempt for failing to hand over doc­uments requested by his committee in the cam­paign fund­raising investi­gation. 
A vote on the 
'------~ Burton's Reno request Thursday could come at any time as Hepublicans press for an inde­pendent counsel in the controver­sy. 
Burton, H-Ind., also said that he will review "some information we think bears on the whole issue of impeachment" and will turn it over to House .Judiciary Committee chairman Henry Ilyde. 
Republicans on his Government Reform and Oversight Committee have complained the White I louse is slow to turn over documents and quick to raise various privi­leges that have made it difficult for Congress to gather evidence in its fund-raising investigations. 
Independent Counsel Kenneth Starr's referral to the House alleg­ing impeachable offenses against President Clinton found a similar pattern of conduct by the White House in his investigation of the president's relationship with Monica Lewinsky. Hyde's commit­tee is reviewing the Starr report. 
At a news conference, Burton said Reno refused to allow half a dozen members of the committee that Burton chairs to review edit­ed versions of memos by FBI Director Louis Frech and prosecu­tor Charles LaBella. Burton reviewed the editml versions this month. 
The memos advocate appoint­ment of an independent counsel to investigate White House fund­raising practices for the 1996 elections. 
Burton said Heno refused to submit the memos unless he with­drew a subpoena and a contempt resolution approved Aug. 6 by his Government Heform and Oversight Committee. 
"It appears that the attorney general believes the president is above the law," Burton said. Saying he hopes the House will move quickly on the resolution, Burton said he had spoken to House Speaker Newt Gingrich about it. 
Heno issued a statmmmt later, calling her recent efl'orts to com­ply with congressional requests "some of the most extraordinary accommodations in American law enforcement history." 
She noted that prosecutors have briefed members of Congress and gave them a peek at sensitive doc­uments. Heno said she did offer on Thursday to let morn members of the Burton committee review the documents and ofl'nred 
to testify or hold additional meetings with committee mem­bers. 
"Although we are disappointed that Chairman Burton rejected this offer, we will continue to work toward a solution," that both satisfies congressional needs and protects her investigation, Heno said. 

DNC memo links trips to fundraising 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
A newly uncovered Democratic National Committee memo shows that the Commerce Department asked the party to suggest candidates for a 1994 trade mission to Hussia, which appears to con­tradict claims that the trips were not used for political pur­poses, The Associated Press has learned. 
Another document shows Commerce officials urged the DNC to develop a list of busi­nesses within each congression­al district. 
DNC and Commerce officials have denied there was any direct link between the trips and donations to the party. When a list of Democratic con­tributors was found in a 
Commerce official's files last year, a department spokes­
woman said it was a  personal  
document,  not  an  official  
memo.  

But the memos, obtained by The Associated Press, otTer new evidence that administration officials improperly may have used the government-sponsored trips to foreign countries to boost Democratic fund raising. 
In a .Jan. 13, 1994, e-mail to his colleagues at the DNC, staff member Eric Silden reported that Commerce official Sally Painter had called "to ask for a list or candidates for a trade mission to Hussia." 
Silden's e-mail suggested that DNC staffers could use another list of suggested participants for a trade mission to Belgium as a starting point for dev()loping a list for the Hussia trip. 



VIEWPOINT 

Friday, September 18, 1998
-page 8 
THE OBSERVER 

NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Rcimhaler Kyle Carlin 

AssiSTANT MANAGING EDITOR Heather MacKenzie 
NEWS EDITOR ..................... Michelle Krupa ADVERTISING MANAGER ...............Kerry McPartlin VIEWPOINT EDITOR ................ Eduardo Llull AD DESIGN MANAGER ........................ Brerr Hudar SPORTS EDITOR ...................... Kathleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER ..................... Michad Brouillet SCENE EDITORS............................ Sarah Dylag CONTROLI.ER ..................................... Dave Rogero 
Kristi Klirsch WEB ADMINISTRATOR .................. jennifer Breslow SAINT MARY's EDITOR ....... M. Shannon Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR ............................... Pete Cilella I'HOTO EDITOR ........................ Kevin Dalum 
The Observer is chc indcpendenr ne\1/spaper published by rhc srudcnrs of che Vnivcrsicy ofNorre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily rdlecr the policies of rhe administration of eirher institution. The nc:ws is reported as accurately otnd objectively as possible. Unsigned cdiwrials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor~in·Chief, Man.tging Ediror, Assistant Managing Editor and department editon.. Commentaries, leners and columns prescm the views of the authors, and not necess:J.rily those of The Observer. Viewpoinr space is available to all members of the Notre DamdSaint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expres.<>ion of varying opiniom. through letters is encouraged. 
Contacting The Observer 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managmg Editor/Assistant ME 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Sports 631-4543 Fax 631-6927 Scene//Saint Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.l@nd.edu Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu Office Manager/General Information 631-7471 News E-Mail observer.obsnews.l @nd.edu 

• SUPER HIGH INTENSITY TRAINING FOR THE M!NO 
Burger King, sex, ROTC, and Insane Clowns 
OK, welcome to the second Super High Intensity Training Session for the Mind. We have a lot to cover, so no time for a hook, or any other literary device for that matter. 


Spencer Stefko 
First on the agenda is some unfin­ished business from last week. 
In the freshman survival guide, I for­got to mention the limit of the impor­tance of intellectualism. 
In your time here, I beg you remem­ber that you can only go so far with intellectualism before common sense takes over (no, not the newspaper, the judgement). 
Here's an exercise to illustrate my point: go get the Supreme Court's majority decision from Roe v. Wade. Read it. Near the end, you will almost find yourself believing that abortion is not just OK. but we should be offering tax breaks to those who abort. 
But right at that point is where com­mon sense is supposed to take over and your consciousness should say, "Wait a minute, you're talking about killing a baby." Intellectualism does have limits. 
Or you might find yourself sitting in front of a country saying that the sex you had with someone you shouldn't have been having sex with wasn't really sex. Dude: if it walks like sex, talks like sex, and feels like sex, you just had sex. 
Second on the agenda: Michigan State. Irish fans have a reputation for being some of the most fickle in the country. The football team lost one game 
(without their best player and emotion­alleader, I might add). Big deal. 
One more thing: this team is not bad at all. They are good. Very good. It was just the big plays. Other than that it wasn't that bad. (I know, that's roughly akin to, "Other than that, how'd you like the play, Mrs. Lincoln?") This is the same team that looked like world-beat­ers one week previous. This team will be very good. If they lose another game before their bowl, I'll walk home to my house in Pittsburgh. Stick with them. 
Next up: ROTC. 
I'm sure all non-freshmen remember the stir caused by the suggestion that ROTC has no place on a Catholic cam­pus. For the benefit of the freshmen, I won't rehash the argument, as it actu­ally pains the eye to read such a crimi­nally stupid proposition. 
I have the good fortune to be taking a ROTC class as an elective. Every Tuesday, as I watch my classmates file in in their khaki-colored slacks, hang up their khaki-colored hats, go take their khaki-colored seats and pull out their khaki-colored pens from their khaki-colored backpacks, my heart swells a bit. (Cue Star-Spangled Banner in the background.) Not out of some unfounded patriotism, but because I sit in class and get to see these young men and women in action and I realize that 
if, God forbid, there is another war, it 
will be run by the caliber of people sit-

In this class yesterday I got the oppor­tunity to listen to one of the finest gen­tlemen left alive in our country speak. He is a veteran of WWII and came to outline the horrors of war for the class. This gentleman was wounded, had a man die in his arms, and continued to fight in what was eventually one of the pivotal battles in the Pacific theater of WWII. 
Without ROTC, very important ties like this to the nation's past would most likely be broken, and I never would have heard this gentleman speak. I never would have encountered a man of this caliber, and I never would have 
,


~ • '' ~ 

~ ~~ ~'' ~ 
} J \ 
ting in that classroom. ~ 

In civilian classes, ~ometimes stu~ents re::.;\..W....~A I'• ~;, f'' ~ \_ b 
1
'
are prepared, sometimes they aren t. The night before class, some go out, some watch TV, some write articles. Sitting in this class, it is amazing the regularity with which these students are prepared. Their level of discipline, the thorough knowledge of their art that discipline produces, and the all around character of these individuals is something to which most of us can only aspire. Notre Dame is much better for their presence. 

\.. " r been able to hear him, barely audible and in a quivering voice, tell us that, "War is hell." You can read about that, you can see it on TV, but having such a tough man tear up when talking about it is unforgettable. Speaking of the military, that brings us to the topic of our esteemed Commander-in-Chief. Can you picture this guy around the time of Washington? 
"Mr. President, did you chop down the cherry tree?" 
"Well, it depends on how you define 'chop.' See, the concept of 'chopping' is very complicated, and when I said I didn't chop down the cherry tree, it was in response to a query that contained an unclear definition of the term 'chop' -and no one would want to be asked a question like that, anyway." 
Next: our over-litigious society. 
I hear that the parents of an 18­month old baby are suing Burger King for damages after a french fry burned the roof of their baby's mouth. 
What kind of parent feeds a baby food without tasting it first? If I were the judge, I would throw out the proceed­ings and assess the death penalty for the parents. 
And now, for our biweekly installment of "Campus Clown of the fortnight." 
An honorable mention goes to the author of the article in The Observer the other day calling the Florida Marlins the best young team in base­ball. If you're a baseball fan, you know how ludicrous this statement is. If you're not, that statement is sort of like calling Hon Powlus the best young quarterback in professional football. Hopefully, the reporter was deported for said statement. 
But the Campus Clowns of the Fortnight Award goes to The Progressive Student Alliance in a tight finish. Do these clowns have a mute button? Are the vegetarian baby-killers really serious? Is this all a big joke? II' I join, do I even need to dress up for Halloween? They truly are a posse of insane clowns. Congratulations. 
Spencer Stefko is a senior limerican Studies major. llis column appears every other Friday.He can be e-mailed at stefko.3@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer . 
• 0.UOTE OF THE DAY 
' people call me a femi­
nist whenever I 

express sentiments that dif­
ferentiate me from a door­
mat or a prostitute.' 
-Rebecca West 

• DOONESBURV GARRY TRUDEAU 
ANYIVAY, I$NOT 
JUSTmae70NI<EI?. Gt3TOUT/ UH. .. NO. I'~ 60TA 61/Z/LL-ION I GOTBOO !3UT7HAT R£i.AT!VCS tdHOttlWT aa.JWE3l3
ONMY 70l(/.4t/?&N... eoA/?£?!3, 7iJO FReAKY.
?VOl
I \
\ 

r---------~----------------~~----------------------------~------~-----~ 
I I 



VIEWPOINT 
-Friday, September 18, 1998 
-------------------------page 9 
• RIGHT OR WRONG? 
Understanding the Impeachment Process 
Tlw bumper sticker says: "lmpnach Clinton Now_ Call 1-XOO-LEAVI~ I><:." Tlw isstw is a lit tin more complicatPd lhan that. It may bn lwlpf'ul here to note a l'ew points on thn irnpmtchnwnt proeess. 

Charles Rice 

/Jackground 
The Constitution provides that tlw l'r«1sicflmt and other civil of'lknrs "shall bn rnmovPd from oflic~n on impeaehnwnt for. and conviction of. treason. bribnry. or other high erimes and misdPmeanors." Art. I, Sc!c. :~. Conviction on impcmrhnwnt nHtuires eoncurrence of' two thirds of' tho Snnators present. On impnachmnnt of' tlw l'rnsident, tlw Chin!' .Justice p1·esidns at tlw trial. .Judgnnwnt on impnachmnnt !'an PXtPIHI only to 1"1\moval !'rom oiTice and disqualifica­tion to hold any office under tiH~ Unitml States, but the pPrson convirted on impPachnwnt rc>mains "sub­jc1ct to indictnwnt, trial, judgenwnt and punishnwnt, according to law." The l'n!sidc!nt.'s pardoning pownr doc!S not nXtPnd to "cases oJ' inqwachnwlit." (Art. II, See. 
2). 
Whilc1 morn than fifty impear.hnwnt proccH1dings have !wen initiated by tlw Ilouse. rour­Wnn havn n1sulted in a trial in the Se11atn; nlcwnn ol' those were against judgc1s. Sevc1n pnrsons. all federal judges. havn been convicted by the Sc1natn on impc!achnHHlt and been removml !'rom ol'lice. l'rnsident Andrew .Johnson was impeached in 11J6R and was acquitted in the Snnaln by onn vole. It is unlikely that members of Congrnss are subjnct to impeacl11mmt since both houses of Congrc1ss arc separately authorized. with the eoncurrc~nec~ ol' two thirds, to expel a member. Art. I, Sne. 5. In 1797 the Senate dismissed impeach­mnnt chargns against Senator William Blount on the grounds that a Senator is not impeachable. 
/Jo you ha/le to commit a crime to be impeached? 
Evidnntly not. Former President gerald H. Ford said, as a Congressman. that "an impeaehable offnnsn is whatever a majority of the Ilouse of Hepresnntativc~s eonsiders it to be ... eonviction results from whatever offense ... two-thirds of the other body considers to be suflieiently serious to require removal of the accused from ortice ... [T]here arc few lixml principles among the handful of prece­dents." Seven reasons, all federal judges, have been impnached, conviclnd by the Senate and removed from office: 
.John Pickering, drunkenness and senility, 1803­
1804. Wr.sl Humphreys. ineitemnnt to rebellion. 1862. Hobnrt 1\rchbald, bribery, 1912-13 Jlalstnd Bittc)r, kickbacks and tax evasion, 1936. 
Ilarry Clairborne. tax evasion, 19R6. 
Alecw Hastings, conspiracy to solicit a bribe, 1988­81). 
Walter Nixon, false statements to a grand jury. 19RIJ. 
Neither .Judge Pi-ckering's senility, nor his intoxica­tion on the bcneh. was criminal. .Judge Hastings was impeachnd for an offense on whieh he had earlier been acquitted by a jury in a criminal trial. Judge Nixon was impeached and convict-__ •.~b­
ed on ~~~\~ 
'(_ev­
two charges of testifying false­ly. lie was impeached, but not convicted, on a third, non-eriminal, charge of bringing disrepute on the Federal judiciary. 
President Andrew Johnson was impeached on a charge, not voted on in the Senate, that he had on various occasions delivered, "with a loud voice, cer­ta-in intemperate, inflammatory, and scandalous harangues and loud threats and bitter menaces, as well as against Congress as the laws of the United States ... amid the cries, jeers, and laughter of the multitudes then assembled." If this were now the standard, many of our political class would be in danger today. Professor Berger, in his classic 1973 work, "Impeachment," describes the impeachment and trial of .Johnson as an "abuse ... an attempt to punish the President for differing with ... the policy of Congress." (p_ 295) 
The first article of impeachment against President Nixon charged him with the apparently non-criminal 

ol'f'nnse that he lied to the public by making "false ... public statements ror the purpose of deceiving the people) of the United Stales into believing that a thor­ough ... investigation had been eonducted" on Watergate. 
Prof. Berger concludes that '"high <:rimes and mis­demeanors' appears to be words of art confined to impeachments, without roots in the ordinary crimi­nal law and which ... had no rnlation to whether an indir.tment would lie in the particular cireum­slances." (p. 62) The bottom line appears to be that you do not have to commit a crime to be impeached. 
Impeachment as an inducement to resignation 
President Nixon, several judges and Secretary of War william Belkamp (1876) resigned under impeachment, or the threat thcre­
r. rather than face a Senate trial. 
Judicial Review 
In the impeachment of' Judge Walter Nixon. the Senate appointed a committee of Senators to hear the evidence and report to the full Senate. The Supreme Court, in 1993, refused to hear Judge Nixon's appeal 
from his 19R9 eonviction in the Senate. The Court said that "judicial 
review of the proce­dures usod by thn Senate in trying impeachments would expose the political life of the country to months, or perhaps 
ynars, of ehaos ... This 
lack of finality would manifest itself most dra­matically if' the President e impeached. The 
maey of' any sucees­and hence his efreetivc­would be impaired 
everely, not merely while the udicial process was running its course, but during any retrial 

that a differnntly constituted Senate might conduct if its first judgement of conviction were invali­
dated. Equally uncertain is the question or what relief a court may give other than simply setting aside the judgement of convic­
tion." Justice Souter, in his concurring opinion, said, "If the Senate were to act in a manner seriously threatening the integrity or its results, convir.ting. say, upon a coin toss, or upon a summary determi­nation that an officer or the United States as simply 'a bad guy,' judicial interference might well be appropriate." The result in .Judge Nixon's case indi­cates that if a President, rather than a judge, were convicted by the Senate on impeaehment, the Supreme Court would be likely to decline to review any challenge, whether procedural or otherwise, to that conviction. 
In sum, the issue is not as simple as the bumper sticker makes it out to be. But maybe President Ford was right. Maybe an impeachable ofrense is whatev­er the House says it is. Unfortunately, we may be about to find out. 
Professor Rice is on the Law School faculty. llis column appears every other Friday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

'I 





w 
cella. D 
THE ---------Friday,September 18, 1998
page 10 
------------=== 




-~ 
I J' 1 I 


''~ ,...... ~~· ..................~~···· .... .: ,.,.,. '\ ' . 

,? MISSOURI • 
~ 
.,........,..-. ....._-.... ~ 


.. 
t.··--:· ~J 

........_._.--....:. ...... . 


. 


iflCA Yc;.'
e'{___ ~-. ~
w 11 wn:w 





BIRTHPLACE OF A VlATION 
~­
page 12 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, September 18, 1998 


Gordon sets single-season record for saves in Bosox win 
A«ociared Press 
BALTIMORE 

Mo Vaughn singled in the go-ahead run in the 10th inning and Tom Gordon set a major league single-sea­son record with his 39th straight save as the Boston Red Sox rallied to beat Baltimore 3-2 Thursday night. 
Boston increased its lead over Toronto in the AL wild­card race to five games. The Blue Jays dropped a 7-4 decision at Detroit. 
Donnie Sadler went 3-for-4 with a homer for the Red Sox, who trailed 2-0 in the seventh before coming back for their third straight win. 
Rafael Palmeiro hit his 43rd homer for the Orioles, who have lost three straight. Any combination of Boston wins and Baltimore losses totaling two will eliminate the Orioles from playoff contention. 
Darren Lewis opened the 1Oth by hitting the first pitch from Armando Benitez (5-6) for a double. Benitez then hit John Valentin with a pitch on the batting helmet. Vaughn then greeted Arthur' Rhodes with a soft single to center that scored Lewis without a throw. 
Gordon set the major league mark for successive saves in one season by getting three outs in the lOth. He earned a share of the record, set by Jose Mesa in 1995, with a save one night earlier against Baltimore. 
Gordon has 42 saves in 43 opportunities this season. Dennis Eckersley ( 4-1) got three outs in the ninth for the victory. 
Baltimore starter Mike Mussina allowed six hits in nine innings -half of them to Sadler. Mussina struck out 10 but walked four, matching his season high. 
Rangers 7, Angels 6 
The Texas Rangers are alone in first place in the AL West for the first time in more than a month. Tom Goodwin doubled in pinch-runner Milt Cuyler in the eighth inning, completing a 7-6 comeback victory 

Thursday night that put the Rangers atop the AL West for the first time since Aug. 13. 
The Angels, who had led the division since Aug. 14 and were up by four games on Aug. 26, finishnd their road trip 1-6. They have lost seven of their last nine, reviving memories of their 1995 collapse when thny led Seattle by 13 games on Aug. 9 only to see the Mariners win the division in a one-game playoff. 
Both teams have 10 games remaining. The. Angels will be home for six, including three against the Hangers from Monday through Wednesday. Texas' final tlm~e home games are this weekend against Oakland. 
Anaheim led 4-0 after a half inning, let Texas tie it, then went up 6-4 in the second only to have the Hangers get solo homers from Todd Zeile in the third and Juan Gonzalez in the fourth to tie it again. 
Lee Stevens opened the eighth with a single off the right-field wall against Pep Harris (3-1), and Cuyler ran for Stevens and scored from second on Goodwin's dou­ble into right-center. 
The Observer accepts classifleds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. ar rhe Notre Dame oHice, 024 · South Dining Hall and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classi­
Classifieds tleds is 3p.m. All classifleds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day. including all 
NOTICES ...___________ I....._._  Mentor/tutor wanted for 14 yr. old hearing-impaired girl. She wears hearing aids & reads lips.  FOR RENT  FOR SALE FOOTBALL TICKETS 271-9412  10PM. WELCOME FRESHMAN KATIE  hmm. no takers?  
ASIAN ALLURE!  Would prefer female hearing­impaired tutor/mentor, but will con­sider all. Call 272-8235 or email­ 1 ,2,3,4,5 BDRM HOMES. NEAR CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW  WANTED ND FOOTBALL TICKETS  BARKLEY $6 Haircuts  oh well. just thought i'd ask.  
INFO MEETING  buslink@sprynet.com.  GILLIS PROPERTIES.272-6551  271-1526  VITO'S BARBER SHOP 1523 Lincolnway West  hello: mom, mickey, danny, jeff, kelly, katie, grandma, aunt mm, za,  
When? THIS SAT Time? 2pm Where? Foster Room 3rd floor Lafortune  Tutor for !USB college soph Physics & calculus. Student likes to work ahead and can come to you. Call 272-8235 or email­ That Pretty Place, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds.5 Rooms with private baths,$80­ ND Ftbl. tix BUY-SELL 674-7645  Closed Sun & Wed M-T-Th-Fr-8-4 Sat8-3  marge, and whoever else might read this at home :) mw -hey girlie. don't stress.  
buslink @sprynet.com.  $115,Middlebury,30 miles from campus.Toll Road,Exit'#107,1-800­ ND Footbaii-Buy-Seii.Seasonal and Individual Game Tickets. GA­ Love ya Be thy .....  remember? we found the perfect solution: grad school.  
NEED A JOB? The Food Service Support Facility is look­ing for student employees. Flexible hours to fit your sched­ule 6 AM to midnight. $5.95/hr. Cali 1-5417 MWF b/w 2-4 or T!Th b/w 11-1.  Tutor for home-schooled, high school senior. Subjects.. Govt, Econ. Eng grammer & camp. Prefer male tutor, but will consider all. Student can come to you days/evenings.Call 272-8235 or email-buslink@ sprynet.com.  418-9487. ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 243-0658. BED AND BREAKFAST, FOOT­BALL WEEKENDS,NEAR CAM­ only 674-7645 ND Football Tickets Needed. AM 232·2378 PM 288-2726 ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE  Help Wanted:The Student Activities Office is accepting appli­cations for Student Program Assistants.PA's are responsible for assisting with campus events work­ing eight hours weekly.Applications are available outside the SA0,315  no adult hood for us. bridget o: i have a big surprise for you. yep, you guessed it -kai tickets. just what everyyoung lass would ever dream for.  
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center We're Open A Lot!!! Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight Fri: 7:30 am -7:00 pm Sat: Noon -.6:00pm Sun: Noon -Midnight When you need copies, we're open!  ND Prof and spouse seeking turn. place, Nov-Dec '98;near cam­pus pref. Tel/fax 403-885­4136,D.Bergen DUNGARVIN INDIANA OFFERS A TREMENDOUS OPPORTUNITY TO SUPPLE­MENT YOUR INCOME We are an organization commit­ PUS. 219-277-6832. BED AND BREAKFAST, FOOT­BALL WEEKENDS,NEAR CAM­PUS. 219-277-6832. BED 'N BREAKFAST REG­ISTRY info:  AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 Always buying and selling N D football tickets. 289-8048 Need 5 Purdue GAs Call x3501 Eric  LaFortune.Applications are due 9/23/98. We heard there's eight guys' dorm dances this week­end. Why haven't we been asked yet? Love, Four Fun Fourth-Floor McGlinn Girls:-)  Colleen -don't you wish you were here typing these with me? finn wishes he was here. writing about cool misquitoes. ali mcbeal -you rule b/c you go to wooster school with me whenev­er i ask you to.  
ted to responding to the choices of  http://Business.michiana.org/bnb  I need 2 tickets (GA or student)  Have you ever noticed that  gina -you are cool b/c you don't  
Early Spring Break Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise!6 Days $279!1ncludes most meals!·  people with developmental disabili­ties, and respecting those choic­es.We do this by providing habilita­ reg 219-291-7153.  for Stanford (Oct. 2) for my baby brother and his friend (a prospec­tive). If you can help me. please  some people look beautiful under a street light.  like tic lacs anymore!!! julie s. -you rule b/c you know  
Awesome  tion training and respite care.We  913 LAWRENCE  call 4-0562. Ask for Michelle.  UMPHREY'S McGEE has now  the best classes to take at school.  
Beaches,Nightlife!Departs From  offer a unique training program  3 BED GARAGE BASEMENT  conquered and destroyed the  i think you know what i mean.  
Florida!Cancun Air,Hotei.Meals  &  Jamaica &Parties  designed for compliance and quali­ty.We will train all of those who  LARGE YO WALK TO CAMPUS 575 MO 500 DEP.  Need 2 Stanford GAs  Madison Oyster Bar with a leg­endary fire 2 weeks back, they now  julie w. -you are the coolest x­ 
$339!Panama City Room With  have the heart and desire for this  FACULTY OR STAFF  Call Brad x4973  move on to pummel, batter and  roommate a girl could ever want.  
Kitchen. 7  Free  Parties  type of social service,a nd meet the  232-2595  burn  
- $129!Daytona Room With Kitchen $149!1998 BBB Award Winner!springbreaktravel.com  minimum entry requirements. Wehaveaservicesitenearyou, and offer a variety of schedules  FOR SALE  Have two LSU GA's.Would like to trade for two Purdue GA's.Call  NORTH SIDE CONCERT HALL at I USB  what's up? what's up? what's up? what's up? what's up?  
1-800-678-6386  which may accomodate a student's  1-800-324-2653 x4679.  meredith and kelly -i mis~ hav­ 
schedule favorably.Our positions  Twin Mattress, Boxspring, and  FREE ALL AGES show starts  ing you next door. my neighbors  
Beautiful B&B has rooms left for NO home football games. 1.5 miles north of campus. Reasonable rates. GREAT FOR PARENTS!  start at $8.50 per hour and there are many benefit options. Dungarvin has career options within the company, as we provide  Frame for sale. Good Condition. $50. Call Pat 243-5354  BUYING N.D. TICKETS '""""""'ALL GAMES ... 277-1659 FOR SALE N.D. TICKETS  at 7:00 pm TONIGHT with a set from UMPHREY's McGEE and continues at 9:00 pm with a set from ALIBABA'S TAHINI.  now are considerate and don't bang on the walls! it's so sad. sorry to any one I have forgotten  
Call for details. 219.277.2388  services throughout the U.S.If you  WHY PAY RENT? Grad stu- ALL GAMES 272-7233 .......... .  
WANTED  would like more information,call our Employment Jnfoline at 888-297­8582.  dents, facultyr\13-bedrm ranch. 10 min. to NO. Move-in condition. $42,500. 232-8340  Dad coming to town-need two GA's to Purdue Game! Any rea­ From Notre Dame, take Juniper/Eddy st. South to Mishawaka Ave. exit, just before  i'd like to thank the academy for this award.  
sonable price. 246-0784.  the river.  Follow Mishawaka Ave.  This better be a cool weekend  
ABSOLUTE SPRING BREAK... "TAKE 2"  VOLUNTEERS NEEDED The Early Childhood  PREPAID PHONE CARDS  I need 5 LSU tix. Call Eric .  East for about a mile to 20th St.. turn right and park in the garage to  filled with parties and sleeping. That's all i want.  
2 FREE TRIPS ON ONLY 15  Development Center, located at  198 MIN. $20  x1808.  your right.  North Side Hall is  
SALES and ... EARN $$$$. Jamaica,Cancun,Bahamas,Fiori  Saint Mary's College and the University of Notre Dame, is look- CALL 258-4805  approximately 300 yds southwest of the parking garage, in the middle  I'm  
da,Padre!Lowest  prices!Free  ing for volunteers who enjoy young  '87 Chevy Nova, auto, A/C, 81K  PURDUE-2 GA's for SALE  of IUSB's campus. and the concert  almost  
Meals, Parties & Drinks.  children. If you would be interested  mi. Runs Great. $1800. 277-0526.  243-1626 leave offer  hall is inside .  
-­ ..Limited Offer••. 1800-426­7710/www.sunsplashtours.com l AM LOOKING FOR A GUITAR! preferably acoustic, but just in good condition. call me at x2276 I'm looking for 2 "Irish Comfort" t-shirts for me and my dad. If you sell them or have a few extra, please help me out. Call Michelle at 4-0562. Female Grad student looking for Rmmt. Castle Point Apt rent & exps aprox 325 mo. 277-3664  in spending 2 hours a week read­ing children's books, building with blocks; and singing songs with chil­dren, please call Cindy Hestad at 284-4693 (ECDC-SMC) or Thayer Kramer at 631-3344 (ECDC-ND). Please join our fun filled days. SPRING BREAK '99! Cancun •Nassau• Jamaica•Mazat I an· Acapu leo· Bahamas Cruise•Ftorida·south Padre Travel Free and make lots of Cash!Top reps are offered full-time staff jobs.Lowest price Guaranteed.Call now for details!  TICKETS II PERSONAL Need 1STANFORD ga, will Unbelievable. He finally got what sell or trade 1 ARMY. he wanted. His view of the Dome, Call Michael x1951. and no newspaper to bug him any more. What a great guy. I want to I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME be him when I grow up. GAMES.272-6306 All our love, TICKETMART Inc Us. BUY-SELL-TRADE Notre Dame Football Tickets I want to be him, too! It's good to 258-1111 take advantage of students. No student tickets please DO YOU LIKE TO PLAY  SJH, MES and KFH -wish I'd been there tonight. Next week???? Please???? Chad. happy 22nd, old man! maaaaaah. i have to do my paper. it's not getting done because we're still doing this paper. ohhh, it'll be a great paper.  done. Thanks Heather and everyone else for being so patient! you all rule. yes, i can see the bottom of the page! oh where, oh where did little bill hart go? he's different. but he's still the original roman foot soldier.  
www.classtravel.com 800/838-6411  SNOOKER? (just for fun, of course). Call 683-9856, 6PM to  anyone want to write my paper?  Chapel Wing, be prepared for the best fall formalwe've seen!  

Friday, September 18, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• Cnoss COUNTRY • h~HAHAll fOOTBAll 
-

Irish on mark for championship Women's doriDs set to 
By ALAN WASIELEWSKI today. With a first place finish, the only worry Loyola should Sporrs Writer she will extend her record for have. 
tackle co01petition
consecutive Catholic Junior Ryan Maxwell is 

Thn 19th consecutive run­ning of the National Catholic Cross Country Championships takns placn on campus today on the Notre Damn Golf Course -and there are sever­al winning streaks at stake. 
The men's team has won the meet thre1~ y1~ars in a row, and anotlwr win would give them the reeord for thn most con­sneutive wins. The women's team looks to extend a two­ynar streak and tie the strnak record set by the 1992-94 Irish runners. 
The women, coming ofT a win at the Wolf & Kettle lnvilational. will push them­selves harder this weekend by not b1dng satisfied with their pnrfllrmance. 
"It was a good start. but we know we can run a lot b1~tter t.han we did." junior JoAnna l>eotPr said. "We want to run lnxrPIIPntl praetiee times wlu•n it rounts." 
Denter finislwd first last weekend and has a p1wsonal winning streak on the linP Championships to three in a row. Deeter already looks to be in her freshman All­American form finishing 33 seconds ahead of the nearest competitor at the Wolf & Kettle. 
Another runner to watch is freshman Hilary Burn. Today marks her first collegiate race. She only recently learned of her NCAA eligibility. 
"I am just looking to run a good race," Burn said. "It'll be exciting to run with the 'big girls."' 
The men's team, whieh also won last weekend. has a defending champion of its own. Sophomore Hyan Shay looks to repeat his 24:53 win­ning run from 1997. 
"We are confident running on our own campus. Loyola Chicago lwho ran versus Notre Dame in the Wolf & Kettle] gave us a good run last week and we are looking forward to going hnad-to-lwad with them again," Shay said. 
The defending champ is not coming off a fourth-place fin­ish, his highest since winning the 1996 Buckeye Invitational. 
Freshman Luke Watson will want to duplicate last weeks run also, placing 6th in his first collegiate meet. 
Sophomore Ted Higgins and senior Tim Engelhardt also finished in the top 15. 
"I am pleased with the per­formances of both teams, but one win doesn't make a sea­son," head coach Joe Piane stated. "We always run well at the National Catholic and I will be disappointed if we do not this year." 
The open-J.V. division race begins at 3: 30 p.m., followed by the women at 4:15p.m. and the men run at 5 p.m. 
The runners face extra pres­sure to run well at every meet because there is a limited number of competitions. 
Both teams have the oppor­tunity to run only eight races, the final one being the NCAA Championships for which the lBams must qualify. 

FOR tbt' EDUCATION nnd RESEARCH COMMtTNITY 
OVER ONE MILLION OF THE BEST MINDS IN AMERICA HAVE ALREADY CHOSEN THE BEST RETIREMENT SYSTEM. 




TIAA-CREF. 

W 
hen it comes to planning a comfort­
able future, America's best and brightest turn to the expert: TIAA-CREF. With over $230 billion in assets under management. we're the world's largest retirement system, the nation's leader in customer satisfaction, 0 and the overwhelm­ing choice of people in education, research, and related fields. 
Expertise You Can Count On 

For 80 years, TIAA-CREF has intro­
duced intelligent solutions to America's long­
term planning needs. We pioneered the 
portable pension, invented the variable 
annuity, and popularized the very concept 
of stock investing for retirement. In fact, 
we manage the largest stock account in the world (based on assets under management). 
Today, TIAA-CREF can help you achieve even more of your financial goals. From tax-deferred annuities and IRAs to mutual funds, you 'II find the flexibility and choice you need, backed by a proven history of performance, remarkably low expenses, and peerless commitment to personal service. 
Find Out For Yourself 
To learn more about the world's pre­mier retirement organization, talk to one of our retirement planning experts at l 800 842-2776. Or better still, speak to one of your colleagues. Find out why, when it comes to planning for tomorrow, great minds think alike. 
Visit us on the Internet at www.tiaa-cref.org 


Ensuring the future for those who shape it~"' 
· > f · · t f future results CREF certifacates and interests

•DAI BAR Inc /997 f),-filll'tl (',mtrtl~ttlt~'" J<:wtllmt't Rt~tlll.lJ·'· I ast per ormam·c 1!1 no guaran ee o . I . f t' . luJ in tht:' :fiAA. Reai' I.:Stall" Ac,·ounl are distrihutt"d by TIAA-CRI-:F Individual anti Institutional Services~· ~Tr :7-re comp.ete 1: n;ma :t:~::v 8/98 
-

· h 1 , 11 1 ROO 842-2753 extension 5509, fOr che prospt'ctuses. Read them (.·are u Y t" ore you mves 0 sen -· 
mg c arges ''"' t'Xpemu~s. ~:a , 
By NOAH AMSTADTER and MIKE CONNOLLY Sports Writers 
Down by the Rock, the women are hoping to fall in the footsteps of their enshrined neighbor. 
Pangborn Hall is setting high goals thanks to a strong group of sopho­mores returning on offense. Leading Phoxes down the field is Junior quarterback Jill Depaul. 
"She's just awesome," said team captain Michelle Kippes. ''I'm excit­ed about the season." 
On defense, the Phoxes are opti­mistic about the crop of athletic freshmen. Leading the way is sophomore Erin Piroutek, a defen­sive lineman. 
"We're gonna be a lot stronger than we were last year," said Kippes. 'The freshman look really good and we have a good group of returns." 
Pangborn plays cross-quad rival Lyons Hall on Sunday, Sept. 30, which promises to be a good game. 
As you move closer to the book­store, you find the women of' Howard also getting ready for this 
season of inter­hall blood, sweat and tears. While the team did not make the tournament last season, it hopes to carry newfound enthusiasm into this year's cam­

paign. Leading this rejuvenation is team captain Julie Wernick. 
"We are going to improve on last season's record. We have a lot of girls out and we're gonna have fun," said Wernick. 
The Ducks' ofl'ense is lead by two women of great athletic ability: one entering her first season, the other a veteran. Senior tailback Sarah Murray will once again use her blazing speed to break down oppos­ing defenses. 
The ball handler will be freshman quarterback Jill Veselik. On the defensive side of the ball, Howard is looking for another strong season from sophomore safety Emily Borg. 
Pasquerilla West opens up against Lewis Hall and arc, according to captain Kathleen Warin. "very con­fident" that they will have an extremely successful season. 
With Liz McKillop's rocket arm leading the offense and Mary Hepburn's punishing sacks on defense, the Purple Weasels will be a force to reckon with in interhall football this year. 
Following last season's 5-2, semi­final efl'ort, Lyons Hall enters a year filled with question marks on o!Tense. While most of the defense returns, the skill positions on offense must all be filled by new faces. 
The offensive line returns intact as the backbone of the Lyons attack. Captain Caty Yarez said the fresh­man must step up for them to return to last year's success. 
Lewis sets sights on stadium game 
By NATHANIEL DeNICOLA Sports Writer 
The stadium. Not Stepan fields, not small plots of grass, not the bleachers; at the culmination of this sea­son the women of Lewis "fully expect to be playing in the stadium," as projected by captain Hosemary Sage. 
With a solid core of returning upperclassmen, including Maureen Neville, Sara Boblick and .Jane Pater, Lewis looks to eclipse last season's success with an even more impressive showing in 1998. 
Sage said the team "should be able to continue where it left off," especially considering the experience of the coaching staff. Not only did the crew remain intact, but they have been planning their return to the championship since the day last season ended. 
This coaching staff. combined with veteran leader­ship and a crop of talented freshmen, should stand to ­produce one of the school's dominant forces. 
There is an old adage in sports that offense wins games, defense wins championships. For Farley's pur­poses, it's the law. Looking to rebound from a 2-3-1 record last season, Farly is well aware of it will take to produce immediate results. 
Wielding a tenacious defense anchored by Brown and Kelli Shannon Farley should not improve, but excel. 
For other dorms, times are changing, and nowhere ­better exemplifies this than McGlinn Hall. where new coaches and a productive batch of freshmen have helped fill the void left by graduation seniors. Led by Patty Sullivan, Sandra Sanchez and Jessica Coseo, McGlinn's defense figures to be a primary factor in the 1998 season. 
Not be outdone, the o!Tense boasts both experience and depth, having Nicole Benjamin and Lea Ashe com­manding the field at quarterback. Coupled with the stellar efforst of Katie Sullivan and freshman standout Pam Kruger, McGlinn shows the promise to dramati­cally improve upon last season's 1-4-1 outing. 
Some may have noticed that on Sept. 5 a certain defending national championship team was pulveriz1~d by a lesser-ranked opponent. As far as Pasquorilla East is concerned, they hope it's not a trend. 
The defending champions have essentially the same 
-
system that led to an undefeat1~d 1997 season. with the a year of experience to matmate the talents. Primarily an offensive force, P.E. attacks with the Tyson like one-two combo of Elizabeth PlummPr at quarterback and Anne Searle making the l'arries. 
As if the oll'ense needed any help, a Hobin llorning lead defense is notorious for its bulwark capabiliLins. With such an arsenal of weapons, P.E. sees no reason why anything should differ from last season success. 
-. 
Friday, September 18, 1998
The Observer • SPORTS

page 14 
• hrn:m!t\lL FDDTEf\LL
-
Dorm teams gear up for new season of rivalries 
By TED FOX 
Sporrs Writer 
Keenan Hall comes into the 1998 season as the defending interhall champs after a victo­ry against Sorin in the Stadium last year. 
HowPver. this year's squad has a much different look than the championship team that did not allow a single point last year. 
With many key athletes leav­ing to pursue varsity sports as walk-ons. there are a number of nPw faces, especially on defense. 
Heading the new-look defense is veteran linebacker Joe Klopp, who is also filling the role of assistant coach. Running the team's new offen­sive scheme is sophomore quarterback Craig Venvortloh, a second-year starter. 
Leading the rushing attack will be the responsibility of sophomore halfback Nick Costanza. 
With so many fresh faces and new systems on both sides of the ball, the team hopes to keep improving throughout the year. 
"We're just going to take it one game at a time," captain Don Min said. Game one is Sunday against Stanford. 
ALUMNI 
Alumni is coming off a 1-2-1 season that saw massive improvement from the first game to the last. 
The Dawgs closed out their 1997 campaign with a 14-0 victory over Morrissey. Much of this success in the latter stages of the season was a result of a defensive change. Once Alumni moved to the Monster 52 defense. it only allowed one touchdown in the final three games, and this was to eventual champ Keenan. 
The improved defense, which is now frequently copied, looks to be the team's strength this season. 
Guiding the prominent Alumni defense is senior mid­dle linebacker Jesse Bolder, a converted safety who brings an incredible level of intensity to the field. 
Leading the offense is senior quarterback Alex Gese, a third year starter and campus book­store basketball legend. He's joined in the backfield by smashmouth fullback Dave Schenk, back after a year off from the team. 
Alumni's campaign starts on Sunday with a rematch of last year's season finale against Morrissey. 
Coach Jason Malartsik says the team won't be satisfied until it is in Notre Dame Stadium, walking off the field with the title in hand. 
CARROLL I ST. ED'S 
Carroll and St. Ed's have combined to form one team for the upcoming season, one that consists of a lot of new­comers. By the end of the sea­son, it hopes to have bonded as a unit and evolved into a solid squad, capable of playing with anyone. 
One of the keys to how fast this team starts to win lies within the space between the backfield and the offensive line. The backs are solid, led by Jaime Rojas and Jason Duvila. However, with a slew of new plays and a line and set of backs who don't know each other that well yet. it remains to be seen how early their running game meets with suc­cess. Should the two groups come together early on in the campaign, winning ball games will be a lot easier. 
The Carroll/St. Ed's team tees it up for game one on Sunday against Dillon, a team noted last year for its line-rip­ping defense. Captain Tom Nerring says he and his team­mates are getting better with each practice and bringing a tough mentality to the field everyday. This gritty determi­nation is one intangible that is of immense value and should serve the group well through­out the season. 
DILLON 
Dillon Hall comes into 1998 sporting much of the same defense that continually shut down the opposition last year. not allowing a first down the entire season. 
Seven of the 11 starters from this unit return, so it fig­ures to be powerful once again. This fact alone could make Dillon one of the favorites to win it all. 
Leading this pitbull of the defensive world are Kevin McCarthy and Joe Parker, with help from tough-guy line­backer Jason Visner. Yisner also joins Duran Alexander in the backfield. Alexander, in the words of captain Omar 

UNACCOUNTED FOR: 
WORLD WAR I 3,350 WORLD WAR II 78,750 KOREANWAR 8,177 VIETNAM 2,265 
BUT NOT FORGOTTEN 
~----------------------------------------~ 
Another Deloitte Consulting Difference 

DELOITTE CONSULTING: Relaxed Fit. 

-
Deloitte Consulting approaches our business differently. Here, walls are down; lines of communication are fluid. The atmosphere is relaxed and confident, never arrogant. There is a commitment to reasonable work hours and quality time spent away from the job. As well as a belief in 
strong working relationships based upon mutual trust, shared goals and respect for individual points of view. 
If you're intent on building your consulting career with a firm that puts mutual collaboration and individual agendas, relax. 
-
We think you'll fit in perfectly. 
We welcome you to find out more about us at the following events: 
9/17~18 Business Career Fair College of Business 9/21 "What is Consulting" Forum CCE Lower Level (6:30~8:30 PM) 9/23 Engineering Industry Day Fitzpatrick Hall 
Deloitte & Touche Consulting Group is an equal opportunity firm. -We recruit, employ, train, compensate and promote without regard to race, creed, color, national origin, age, gender, sexual orientation, marital status, disability or veteran status. 
Deloitte & Touche Consulting Group 
www.dtcg.com 

Mu-oz, is Dillon's Kordell "Slash" Stewart, a reference to the Pittsburgh Steeler's multi-dimensional quarter­back. It seems to be an apt description, as in addition to his running back duties, he logs time at receiver and cor­nerback. 
The team's journey to return to the playoffs starts Sunday against CarrolVSt. Ed's. Mu-oz says the team must stay focused on each game this year to improve on last year's first round playoff elimination at the hands of Keough aftpr an undefeated regular season. 


page 15

Friday, September 18, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS 
• irHEimAll rOOTBAlL 

Halls look for opening wins 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Spom Writer 
Orw of thn most experienced teams in dorm football this year will be K1~ough llall. Hetuming I5 startl~rs from last year's team that lost in the lirst round of the playoffs, 1·.aptain Casey Bouton bnlinves that his team's experi­eru:n will lead them to great improvemnnts this season. 
Keough will open against Zahm llall. featuring an oll'ense that will rely on a balanced attack lnd by quartnrbaek Travis Alnxander and running back Hyan Yorknry. The defense will play a conservative 4-4 style that will revolve around the talents of dnfensive lineman Mareo Hodrigunz. 
J."ollowing a disappointing 1-3 season, the Studs of Stanford Jlall look to rise to the top eche­lon of dorm football with a Woddy llayes-style three-yards and a eloud-ol'-dust of'fesrw. l.1mding_ the charge will be J.C. J'erez, a sophomore fullback, whos1~ would-be tacklers will most likely lind themselves on the ground as Perez runs by. nnm1irll! twins for Perex will be 
r 
Infinite opportunities. Dynamic careers. 

You have a future here. 

------------------------------------------n_'_='~_"_P_k'_·,.,_k_P_r/_n_H~n~tfl~,r~is still optimistic about the 1998 Green Wave
interhall football team. 
freshman Josh Kaakua. In a throw-back to the ironman style of football's earlier eras, Kaakua will also wreck havoc on oppos­ing offensives from his defensive line position. Leading the Stanfrod aerial attack will be sophomore quarterback Brock Cuchna. 
Although his young team lacks experience. captain Dave Chamberlin said, "We got a tough. young team that is eom­rnittml to winning. We could sur­prise a lot of people this year." 
KNOTT 
Hnturning eight starters on offense and nine on defense from last year's 2-1-1 yearn that 
narrowly lost in hte semifinals, Knott Ilall is one of the favorites to be playing in the stadium this year. Knott's strength should be its defense. Captain Mario Suarez has eallnd his linebackers, led by Dan Gi IIi an and Drew Klosterman. the "best in the league." The passing attack that 
Knoww planned to emplot this 
season took a eritical blow in scrimmage against Keenan 
when quarterbaek Grant Kreizenback went down with a knee injury. Due to Kroizenbaek's injury, Knott might have to rely more on their running attack against Sorin Hall when they open on Sunday. 
MORRISSEY 
A semilinaiity from last year, Morrissey Hall returns 11 starters and hopes that its bal­anced offensive attack will lead 
to even greater succes this year. Morrissey expects Dan Sullivan's experience at quarterback to off­set the inexperience at wide receivers. Tailback Steve Bartlett will also help to take some pressure off of the 
receivers with his rushingattack. 
Morrissey's defensive strength appears to be its ability to use many different defensive fronts 
and the talents of defensive tack­le Dan Prinee to shut down the running attack of opponents. 
While the team has looked solid during preseason, captain Steve Bartlett says that he is 
"eager to see the team in pads 
against Alumni" to find out what kind of talent they really have. 

Zahm, Fisher, Sorin seek rematch victories 
By WES JACOBS SportS Writer 

~-----------------------------------------·----­
As this year's men's interhall season begins, teams across earn-
pus will vie to succeed Keenan Hall as the eampuswide champion. 
For a spirited, talented and motivated contender, look mo fur­
ther than the Zahm Hall squad. After last season's disappointing 
lirst-round upset loss, the Habid Bats will be looking to return 
with a vengeance this year. 
"Obviously, the goal is to go undefeated. We're not playing to 
lose," said team captain Colton King. 
Tough players such as junior safety Mike Garco, junior fullback 
Matt Meyer and senior defensive end Eddie Llull could position 
Zahm near the top of the rankings come playoff time. In addition, 
freshman quarterbacks Steve Lickus and Matt Bohnenkamp 
should see substantial action and must overcome their inexpnri­
ence at the position.

But the Bats are still trying to stay levelheaded about their sea­
son. According to King, they'll remain with the methods that have 
worked in the past. 

"We'll try to stick with the balanced attack, to keep defenses 
honest," he said. "Zahm plays smashrnouth football." 
Time will tell if Zahm can return to the form of last year's rngu­
lar season. With the disappointment of last year's playoff's still 
fresh in players' minds, King's squad will faee its first test Sunday 
against rival Keough. 

FISHER 
Fisher Hall's senior captain Chris Backus refuses to be fazed by 
the term rebuilding.Despite losing a hefty nine players from last year's team, the 
"We're untested, but we have the talent," stated Backus. 
Despite its lack of size, Backus said he hopes the team's aggres­sive nature will power them past its opposition. If Fisher is to improve upon last year's 2-1-1 record. a handful of players need to step up their games. 
Senior running backs Greg Regan and Jamie Ricker will need to make the plays and open holes for themselves, rather than rely­ing on a strong line as they have in years past. Mike Schultz will also need to come up big at the wide receiver position. 
But Backus expects two players in particular to be the keys to the Green Wave's success. Frnshrnan linebacker Dean Korolis is expect­ed to step in and contribute imme­diately, and quarterback Zaek Allen, a transfer student. needs to adjust to the field as well. 
''I'm expecting a lot out of Dean -he needs to lead the freshman class," said Backus. "[As for Zack.J our success depends on how he performs under pressure." 
SOHIN 
Four years ago the Sorin Otters 

were a disappointing 0-4. 
The following year the team 

improved to 1-3, and two years 
ago it advanced to the semifinals. 
Last year. Sorin surprised every­
one by plowing a path to the 
championship game, where the 
team got overpowered by strong 
Keenan. _ ..... 
But the team still contends that 

the only way is up. and that 
means taking that final stnp ­
winning the championship. 
"Going into our l'irst game, we 

look bettnr than we did last year," 
said Otter quartorback (>nte 
Belden, younger brother of Sorin 
coach and player Greg Belden. "At 
our skill positions we havn a lot of 
speed and we have the talent to 
make it biick to thn stadium, lsol 
it's just a matter of us executing 
on the field." 
In their Sunday opener against 

Knott, Sorin will also look toward 
freshman linebacker and fullback 
Doug Lawrence to make up for 
what was lost from last year's 
finalist team. Also on offense, tight 
end Hyan Shoshone will be an 
integral part of the play calling, as 
the Otters will look to air it out 
this fall. "Compared to other 
interhall teams, we pass a lot," 
said Pete Belden. This is not 
Ayako Takahashi 
launched her career in 1993 with GE's Financial Management Program. Today she's a Marketing Financial Analyst for GE Lighting. 
Please Join Us at College of Engineering Industry Day 
Sept. 23, 1998 
I 0:00 am -4:00pm Fitzgerald Hall · 
P!Rase confirm dates & times with your Career Placement Ojjice jirr any last minute changes. 
www.gecareers.com 

We bring good things to life. 

GE Aircraft Engines  GE Appliances  GE Capital Services  GE Corporate Research a11d Development  unjustified; Sorin has virtually its  
GE Industrial Systems  GE Information Services  G£ Lighting  GE Medical Sysrems  GE Plastics  entire ol'fense back, ineluding  
An Eqn.tl Oppor wnitv F.mployn  GE Power Systems  GE Supplr  G£ Transportation Systems  NBC  n~ceivers and the o!TI~nsive line.  


----------~----------~-­
--------~----------------------~ 

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 18, 1998 




Undefeated Irish prep for Rutgers 
By ANTHONY BIANCO 
Sports Writer 
Tho Irish will take a vacation this weekend out east. and they plan to return with two much-needed wins. 
Playing at RutgPrs Friday night and Villanova Sunday afternoon. the Irish will look to come back to South Bend with four more points in the Big East conference. which could put them on top of the Big East. 
Riding an undefeated streak through its first four games. Notre Dame has propelled itself to a No. 16 ranking by the National Soccer Coaches Association of America. In addition, the Irish win and tie in Big East play has landed them second in the conference. 
The sole blemish on Notre Dame's record was last Sunday's 2-2 tie at home against Pittsburgh. 
"We always want to win our games at home, espe­cially the Big East games. In that sense, we were dis­appointed with a tie, but we're still undefeated and doing a lot of things well," said co-captain Phil Murphy. 
The Irish are doing a lot of things well on both sides of the baiL The Irish have averaged three goals a games while only letting up 0.92. The aggressive offense will head out east looking to add to its offen­sive barrage, which has already yielded 66 shots in four games. 
The attack has been strong despite the injuries of forward Scott Wells and wide-midfielder Andrew Aris. Both have been injured for the last couple of 
0 -{:(_ 
~'f,'J:XH~c;_lOJB 
HAIR MODELS NEEDED 
For Monday's Training Program by Licensed Professionals. Call for Information. 289-5080 
A UTI/ f.'NT/ C 


BAVARIAN 
1!\ 
DANK 
, .....J.../ 
'••11110111· \m~·tn.m ' lltnU;tl C Ulll~l't•.,., 
..,,,nil• H1·1ul ( h:,ph·• 

-

OKTOBERFEST 
s•:P1~~:MBER 19.. 1998 
S:ClU P.M. TO ,MIDNUatT AT 
l\:IISHAWAKA 1\REWIN(; COMPANY J70J N. MAIN STREET 1\IISHAWAKA. IN ( 1 I;2 mi il's east olthL· ll111 vcrsi 1v ol Notre l>amL' 1 
' 

games. 
"We have somewhat of a deep bench," commented Ryan Cox. "We can't just stop playing the game. It's just a matter of finding the best combination for that particular game." With the injuries. the junior for­ward has stepped up to net two goals while assisting on five others. 
The team looks to step onto the field Friday night with a full force, with the previously injured players ready to play. 
"As far as I know. we should be 100 percent by this weekend," said co-captain Matt Johnson. 
The Irish have counted on freshman Shane Walton in previous contests, but the Scarlet Knights and Wildcats will surely try to keep No. 11 under their 
controL "(Rutgers and Villanova] will look at Shane and see he's our 'go-to' man. But that will just open up holes 
for guys like Ben Bocklage, Aris and We II s," Johonson said. 
The trip 
~!sjtu~;~~~ 
vacation
they need­ed. 


Men's Soccer 


• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • % ~ % 
lntroduci1zg ... 

% W 
,. ~ 
* W, 

: /)esi(rned for the Ulthnate C:ornj(n't at SurjYrising{y Low 
{f
• i\1or;~hz_,_, Rate ___ rust Corn_;Jare!
'* 1 J' 
: * 
UNFURNISHED or FURNISHED 
II> 
!ll 
Spectru:u/11r Furnishings Available! 
• 
w • 27" Stereo Television 
* $ • Cherrv Finished Furnishings 
w 110 

MicH;wavc, 'T(xlster, CoHee Maker % $ All Dishes, Cookware, Linens & New Bedding
110 

$ 
• Plus .JY1ucb lvfore!
• 
$ 
% 


$ 
DOLLAR ,R£f\JOVA1 IUN 
~~ 
•;.j( 
Starting at $494.00 

% LARGE ()ne Bedrooms (737 sq fr)• 
: * LARGE "T\vo Bedrooms (l ,02'1 sq ft) Starting at $595.00 : OR $li19.00 per Person wirh Four Occupants 
: bzcluded with rentals for rt L!A1!TED time--FRh'E fu~l pri.vilege. 
• membersh,ip n?. rhe c_~stlc Point.,.HeaLth an1 R11cquct Club t;1cl~-1ctm~p .. , _ "' "' New hmess Center Outdoor I ool B~:.tdt ~ c?lk; b.ul 
: ·"' Sauna & Whirlpool * 3 R<Kquetball Courts "' Indoor/Omdoor 8 * Indoor/Omt.toor Lighted 'T(>nnis Courts Basketball
! Hurry in for a Tour of the Most Pofular! Apartments ~Vhile fhey Last. 
Castk:PointApartments C~efatta @ Jronwooo:Rooos 272~8110 
..Where Ro~a( (iving is Reasona6fe" 
mm~•••••~••~•••®•••••m•••••••••••••••••~•••••~• 
One out of six college women will be sexually assaulted this year. But you can change the odds of it happening. 
Join Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination (CARE) 
A Mandatory Training Session will take place Sunday, September 20 from 1 pm-5 pm in McGlinn Hall Lounge. 
Questions, call Lori at 284-5187 or James at 634-1539. 
-
Friday, September 18, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
·--~----------------------------~~~~~~--~~~--------------------------------------~~-­
foot-11, 202-pound receiver haniscerse.gular game day appear-play here; I was called to play Although Sicuso had probable from Texas. "It was so loud in . here. For some reason, God starting jobs at Princeton,


Football 
there. It was weird. Standing on Arter his two-play debut wanted me to play football at Amherst, Holy Cross or 
continued from page 20 the sidelines, I was so nervous; against Michigan, Hebert filled 
but once I got in there it was in for injured players on special on tho team when I got my just the play I ran in practice. teams consistently during and nquipment." "It felt like a big step up for after the second quarter against 
Each player has been "hit" by me," he said. Michigan State. his momnnt of glory -whether The walk-ons tend to raise the For senior Ben Robinson, his making a tackle on the practice measuring stick of their success steps to success were destiny. finld or throwing a block on each fall. After a two-year break from game day. "The first year I thought, 'If I football due to hip, knee and 
llnbert dressed all last season, can dress for just one game, I'll neck injuries, Robinson followed but his first st(~p onto the field be the happiest man alive," his heart from a small Oregon with ganw dock ticking came llebert said. "After that, I college to the Golden Dome. two W(Wks ago in thn second thought, 'I just want to get in "After two-and-a-half years quartnr against the Wolverines. one game." ofl', some would say, 'Why would 
"Bnfore tho game, tlH~Y told Now Hebert seems to be mak-you try for the Notre Dame foot­nw I'd b(~ in for two plays. I was ing yardage on his dream with ball team?' But I was meant to so lirnd up," said llnbert. a 5­
11HITCHCOCK FILTERED THROUGH KAFKA! 
THIS DIABOLICAL BLEND OF SUSPENSE AND WIT BRIMS WITH DARK SURPRISES, NOT THE LEAST OF WHICH IS 
ASUPERB DRAMATIC PERFORMANCE BY STEVE MARTIN AS AFIGURE OF MALEVOLENT MYSTERY. 
-Peter Travers, ROLLING STONE 
1'AN ELEGANT, ENTERTAINING MYSTERY!" 
-Janet Maslin, THE NEW YORK TIMES 
Presented by ND Film, Television, and Theatre www.nd.edu/-cothweb 


Study Abroad at 

The University of Notre Dame, Australia FALL 1999 

INFORMATION EVENING Monday 21st September 5 p.m. 129 DeBartolo Hall 
http:I I www.nd.edul---cneallfreo e-mail: neal. I @nd.edu 

Notre Dame." Georgetown, he would rather 
ButTing up from 195 pounds to wait his turn at Notre Dame 244 pounds since 1997, with the rest of the walk-ons. Robinson landed himself a foot-"Even if I didn't play sports ball scholarship this season. again, I couldn't turn it down," 
"I was surprised to hear I'd said Sicuso, known back home earned a scholarship over the as "Hudy" or "Notre Dame." summer," tight end Robinson "I've never had any regrets. said. "It has always been a goal How could I just sit around and of mine. I'm just really amazed not try when I know I have the at the opportunity I've been chance to play Notre Dame foot-given." ball?" 
Although Robinson is endur-Even if he never steps on the ing a neck sprain, he is looking field again, that's all right with to return to action against Sicuso. Purdue in another week. "The way I look at it is that 
Sicuso is also biding his time anything that happen's is until he can feel the charge he gravy," he said. "You have goals experienced his sophomore year and if you can reach them groat; when then head coach Lou Holtz oth?rwise, J.ust be happy that sent him in for one play against you re here. Pittsburgh. Their names probably won't 
"I ran the play in and I didn't come up in Notm Dame's leg­even know what the words ends. And instead of their meant," Sicuso said. "I told names in the record book, Jarious [Jackson] the play and they'll have to settle with one they told me where to line up line in a massive media guide. and I made a block on a safety. I But they'll sure have a great just remember running so fast." story for their grandkids. 


SWING DANCE PARTY 
If swing is your thing, this is your night. 

The reggae stylings of 

URAEUS 
jam the lower level while DJ FONZ & WALK-MAMA spin you silly in the Shamrock Lounge 

MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL 
•Free Hot Dogs ~~ {~igars 
•Hosted by the(> S~amrock Girls '1. __./\~_) 
ICON has SPECIALS every night to fit every budget 

-
·­
I 
------------~-------------·----------~ 
page 18 
The Observer· SPORTS Friday, September 18, 1998 
I 

I .-.. 
I 


I After NC loss, Irish ready to learn and march on 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Assisrant Sports Editor 
The true sign of a champi­onship-caliber team is the ability to bounce back after a tough loss. 
Coming off a disappointing 5-1 loss to top-ranked North Carolina. the Notre Dame women's soccer team will look to rebound when it returns to Alumni Field and resumes con­ference action this weekend. playing Rutgers today and Villanova on Sunday. 
In their last outing, the Irish were embarrassed by the Tar Heels, giving up season-highs in shots (33). corner kicks (11), and goals allowed (5). It was the team's worst loss since a 5-0 loss to North Carolina in the 1994 NCAA championship game. 
"We're definitely excited to get out there and play again," said forward Meotis Erikson. "I think that loss was good for us. It made us realize what we have to work on." 
Rutgers and Villanova shouldn't present much of a challenge against a loaded Notre Dame team that has outscored Big East opponents 16-1. en route to a 2-0 conference record. ThP women blanked West Virginia 7-0 and dominated Pittsburgh 9-1. 
Jenny Heft leads the Irish attack on offense. The junior for­ward amassed 16 points in just five games, including two assists and a team-high seven goals ­three of which came in the West Virginia game. Junior Jenny StreifTer also had a hat trick in that contest and is off to a quick start herself. 
Sophomore midfielder Anne Makinen returns to the Irish lineup after missing the Carolina and Duke games last weekend. 
"We missed her a great deal and it's great to have her back," said Erikson. "She's definitely one of the leaders on this team and I think we flow better with her out there." 
Makinen brings a spark to offense and has 12 points in only three games. Fellow sophomore 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
•Used 
books bought and sold 

•25 
Categories of Books 

•25,000 
Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

•Out-of-Print 
search service: $2.00 

•Appraisals 
large and small 


Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 

-· 
ALLOWEEN H20 (R) 1:45, 4:00, 7:00, 9:30 
HOW STEllA GOT HER GROOVE (R) 1:50,4:40,7:30,10:15 ~NG PRIVATE RYAN( R) SS 1:00,12i,4li,5.ffi,715,8:10,9:15 
Erikson has also chipped in 12 down to the level of our oppo­Villanova comes to town with Rowland, another freshman, haspoints on three goals and six nents. We don't just want to win, a 3-2 record and a win in its dished out three assists over herassists. Heft, Makinen, Streiffer we want to play well." 
most recent outing. They defeat­last three games.
and Erikson will present formi­Rutgers is off to just a 1-3-1 ed Lehigh 4-1 on the road 
Villanova head coach Ann

dable challenges to this week­start. In their last game. the Tuesday and will take on Clifton is optimistic about her
end's opponents. Scarlet Knights were shut out by Pittsburgh tonight before going team's chances and is commit­"We should do well against Big Princeton, 1-0. Last season, the up against the Irish Sunday. 
ted to improving on her team'sEast teams," said Erikson. "It's Irish put seven up on the score­Freshman Keri Lages is off to 

8-8-2 record from a year ago. probably one of the weaker con­board in New Jersey. They will a quick start for the Wildcats. In "We have evolved to the pointferences and most of the time we try to follow that feat with just her first collegiate season, 
where we don't have set goals,can win without playing our another impressive victory this she already four goals and a 

and instead have things just
best. We're trying not to play 

year. team high nine points. Sarah 
expected of us." said Clif'ton. 

For Reservations or For relaxation and great Directions: 255-1526
food with an almost 

100 Center Brewery off
forgotten style, 

Lincolnway in Mishawaka. 
come join us! 
W-Th 5:00-9:00 Fri-Sat 5:00-10:00 

We're No\V In Your
GRAND OPENING 


North\Vest Corner
Saturday September 19th 9iNJ * 12:30 
.J<'I.)()d-J>rirt..-s 
Fnnl 






NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CtREDIT UNION 
.I 

'Portage Road Branch is now Open 
(Across frotn Meijer) 
t~
i 
• NowSurcharge ATM ~ 
\ U93 
reven f(:w ncm-ntembers.i ~ 
• FREE Checking / Live 
~--.'> Broadcast! 
• 
Drive up Service / 

~ Septe·mber 19 

• 
Safe Deposit Boxes 



'-r 
'f, 

• Special l/4<:f Bonus on ~-.A./'.''·... ~.' :;
v v ..J 
any new CD 
• Home Equity and Car Loans As Low As 7.99l'!c APR* 

Stop in and Apply for Membership at: 
FOR EVERY 

345 7 Portage Road NEW ACCOUNT!



(219) 277-8959 
·fleu.r 
h<)&:~~W!-d~:t~~ ~~fdm l.~~~t'-''~·H'-:H·~:;­

SS =Stadium Sealing ~· 

Friday, September 18, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 19 


DAN SULLIVAN 

LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF NO 
LE-('S SEE, ?HERE's 
/'lOW I WAS NEVER.
T'v£ ~OT i 200.oo 
r;ooD AT WORD
117 DAYS tN 1'tiE or PLE X PotNI5; 
PROBLE/'1~ BI/T
1N Ex'cf!AN(jE FO {(:.
SEMESTER ...

Bl'ing a hit famishl'd him,df. Zuro dl'ridl'd to join tht· motll-_1 tTl'" and IISl' his t•nr -.o ron~t•nit·nt Fie\ I~ rani. to lllll"l'hast• lunrh at till' Huddle. 
FOXTROT 


DILBERT 
I'~ FINDING II A BURDEN TO 
REI"\E.Me,ER YOUR 
NAI"\£. . 
CROSSWORD 


ACROSS 32 Boccacc,o·s 58 Be 1n harmony · L1fe of---" 
59 Astronaut Bean 35 S1lls oHer1ng 61 Whal G(Jd 1 Fellow 

5 Hardly a blabbermouth 37 Confme 
wrough\1 

62 Pol1t1cal L1ve" b1t 
9 ·saturday N1ght 36 L1qu1d fat 
alliances
39 Owned 63 FICtional 14 Pnest of the 

40 Greenland base 
delectiveEast 41 Meeting of 64 Toast topper

t5 "R1torna 
ministers 

VlnCitor·· smger 65 VISIOn
associat1on 16 Form of electnc 
66 Fret

42 Gump of the power 67 Pottery
comics 17 "I smell---'" 
43 Over 16 Farm feed 
44 Tidbit 
DOWN 

19 On 
46 Nicholas Gage

(succeeding) 1 One may be
book easily disrnissec

20 Sw1zzle stick 46 News med1a 2 Author Bret22 L1ke some vans 
50 Part of a 
3 V1gorously24 Longer-lived 1O-Down 4 July Fourth

2slnterweave 54 Basketball celebration 
26 Expo 70 s1te strategy 
feature 26 Californ1a event 57 Public face 
s Security equipment 6 Fabulist 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
7 Spots 
a Ta1 
9 Former Israeli Pnme M1n1ster­, o July Fourth 30 Le:>• celebration 
31 Ht' .vrote '"Ten 
feature 
D.::.s That 11 A1r freshener 
S·· ~-ok the target 1/,~·ld'" 12 Sh1eld border 
32 A1·. ;ui end 13 Quit, in poker 
33 R,, al nval 21 Baseball greal 34 · the twam
AI sr.,il meet"
23 Pro 36 Pastoral poem
FROM NOW ON, I'LL P..E.FER TO 'l'OU 1>.5 ErTHER. ''BUDDY" OR "BIG GUY." 
45 Conductor 54 Taps or pa;s.
Ansermet 55 He, to En••cc47 Heretofore 
56 Kermit, e g49 Fash1on lines 57 Top of the '"lead
51 Australian critter so Auction offer~ng 
Answers to any three clues in this p~zz!e are available by touch-tone phone 1-900-420-5656 (75c per m1nute) 
Annual subscnpt1ons are available for Ihe best of Sunday crosswords from the 1ast 50 vears 1800) 762·1665 

YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRIT!ES BORN ON THIS DAY: Sean Penn, Robert De Niro, Mae West, jim Courier 
Happy Birthday: This should be a year to remember. You'll have plenty of chances to make changes that will ha1·e b<•neficial results. You are always willing to put yourself on the line and because of this you will attract altention from individuals interested in backing your ideas. Speak your mind and let others know what you're all about and what your intentions are. Your numbers: 2, 11, 19, 25, 36, 45 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): This will be a fabulous day to spend with friends or relatives. You will be your usual witty s~l! and others will admire you and gravitate toward your spunky presence. 0000 
. TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your wncerns may be warranted. Take a good look at ·your financial situation. Jl.!oncy you thought was there may not be. Adjust your personal papers and implement a strict budget in order to compensate. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will want to get out today. High emo­tional energy must be used up in some form of physical activity. Romance will unfold through the groups you get involl'ed with. 000 
CANCER (june 21-July 22): Emo­tional memories may surface. You must learn to let go of the past if you wish to move forward. Your partner will not offer the best support. Talk to older relatives. 000 
LEO (july 23-Aug. 22): Offer your home for group meetings or just friendly get-togethers. Love connec­tions can be made through the new 
Birthday Baby: You are bright, inquisitive and easy to please. You haw a simplistic approach to whatever you do and because of this I'Ou can .1CCtlm­plish a lt1t throughout your life. You are generous. compassionate .md intent on experiencing as much as possible. 
1'<eed advice? Call Eugenia at 900-484-7827 YDur phone cnmpany will bill you 51.99 per minute.) 
•'· l'"'"i L 111\'~r-.,ll Prl':oO'!tS~·ndtc.lk 

Wanted: 
Reporters, photographers 
and editors. 
Join The 
Observer staff. 
contacts you make. Take a position of leadership if possible 0000 VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You may not be too happy wilh your po~i­
tion right now. Don't bL' ton IMrsh or 
critical. Your s11uatwn will lurn out better than you h,1d t'\pected. 00 
LIBRA (Sepl. 23-0ct. 22): Love can be yours. You will attract roman· tic parlners easily. Your inluitiVl' awareness will aid you in picking tlw right person. Harmon~· is el'ident at a personal level. 00000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You may be summoned lo take care of matters concerning older relatives. Don't allow them to put demands on you that may hurl your own situa­tion. Protect your assets. 000 
SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may want to kt·ep your mall' busy today. He or sh<• will hal'e ,, tm· dency to give you a hard lilllL' if you don't gil"l' him or lwr enough to do. Plan your activities cdfefully. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Use your know-how to win points. You can mix business with pleasurt• if you wish to socialize with clients or colleagues today. You can m.1ke valu­able new contacts. 000 
AQUARIUS (jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will be m the mood for love. Regard­less of lhe form of entertainment, your fa1·orite part of the day will bt• the time spent with the one yt>U love. 00000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You'll be emotionally distraughl if I'OU allow sC>meone you dl"l' involved 1\'lth to play mind games with you. Work on projects that will enhance your surroundings. Idle time will rt•sull in disputes. 00 

.. 


• lnrerhall foorball games begin this weekend. Who has lhe edge? You decide. 

p.15




PORTS 
O THE 

-----------------Friday, September 18, 1998

in its starting lineup, will lead to a turnaround for the team. 
"We're always going into every tournament with the expectation of' winning," said head coach Debbie Brown. "First, the skill area we've worked on most is passing. We've also made a cou­ple of line-up changes." 
Freshmen Kristy Kreher and Marcie Bomhack are breaking into the starting line-up, replac­ing juniors Emily Schiebout and Mandi Powell. Kreher, at 6-foot­1, plays the opposite position; while the 6-foot Bomhack is an outside hitter. Both have played significantly in the first few matches of their college careers. 
The first opponent for the Irish this weekend will be the New Hampshire Wildcats at 5 p.m. today. This is the first-ever meet­ing between the two teams. Top players for the 3-5 Wildcats are 
(':l·H {:':: ,(ll''l 

By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Sporrs Writer 
The Notre Dame vo-lleyball team will look to recover from two losses ,-------, 
last weekend with a sweep in the Michigan S t a t e Tournament this weekend. 
The Irish dropped two 
Jameysonmatches last weekend against Wisconsin and Indiana in the Wisconsin Inntowner Tournament, which knocked the team from 18th to 24th in the USA Today/AVCA rankings. The Irish hope that their work in practice this week ori passing and defense. along with changes 

last year's American East Conference player of the year Bethany Cole at the middle blocker position, and outside hit­ter Cari Sanders. 
Coach Jill Hirschinger turned the team around last year in her second season as coach. The Wildcats went from a dismal 6­26 record in 1996 to finish 23-10 last season. They return five startersfrom that squad. 
Notre Dame takes on Utah tomorrow morning. The Utes 
·are 6-2 so far, with live starters back from a team which won 22 matches last season. The Irish beat Utah in three games last season, which was the first-ever match-up between the two schools. 
Beth Launiere is in her lOth year as coach for the Utes. The team is led by middle blockers Kalani Tonga and Stacie Greenwalt, along with outside hitter Sara Shakula and setter Graciela Torres. Greenwalt and Tonga have over 100 kills already this season, while Torres has 399 assists in the team's first eight matches 

"Utah's middle is very good, with quick setters," said Brown. "We're going to have to stop their middle." 
Michigan State the most formi­dable opponent for the Irish this weekend. The Spartans are ranked 18th nationally, sporting a 4-1 record in 1998. 
Coached by Chuck Erbe, the top players for Michigan State are senior ovtside hitter Jenna Wrobel, who is hitting .307; and setter Christi Landri, who boasts an average of 11.67 assists per game. 
The Irish will look for the return of a healthy Lindsay 
Treadwell, who was fighting the flu last wenkend. Treadwell was the Big East player of the week the first week at the middle blocker position. They will look to sophomore Denise Boylan to continue her outstanding play at the setter position. 
Sophomore Jo Jameyson, in her first year as a starter at mid­dle blocker and outside hittPr, has also stepped up her play in recent weeks. Jameyson aver­ages 1.65 blocks per game, good enough to rank her 1Oth nation­ally. 
"We've worked really hard in practice on defense and team things like communication," said sophomore outside hitter Christi Girton. 
The Irish are 2-3 so far this season. The tournament is th(lir last match before entering Big East play October 2. 
Notre Dame walk-ons tread on dreams 
By M. SHANNON RYAN Saint Mary's Editor 
With sweat .cascading from their fore­heads and mud-stained hands gripping scuffed golden helmets, they trudge past reporters without even making eye con­tact. 
They realize they aren't the ones who get the interviews or the headlines. 
But for Notre Dame's more than 25 non-scholarship players, a recognizable number on the back of a jersey isn't the important thing. Just wearing blue and gold is enough for them. 
Phil Sicuso, a senior who walked on the team after his sophomore year, wished for nothing more than an Irish uniform since fifth grade. 
Sicuso spent only one year in the stu­dent section of the stadium -rattling keys on third downs, droning the collec­tive "ohhhh" before kickoff. bellowing the fight song. 
After his freshman year, Sicuso was still a fan; but now he was a fan of peo­ple he could call teammates. 
The senior from Massachusetts never envisioned himself on Notre Dame's turf -only on the North Quad grass, playing interhall football for Stanford Hall. 
"Once l decided to come here, I thought [football] was all over," said the 5-foot-11. 187-pound receiver. "I would have never thought it possible [my fresh­man year]. when I was cheering in the stadium or camping out for tickets, that I'd be on the team." 
Instead of the gridiron, Sicuso was primed for the baseball diamond, but after being cut from the Irish team, he figured, "I've got to do something with myself. I thought if I didn't make it, I could at least tell my grandkids that I tried." 
Like the rest of the Irish walk-ons, whose names combined equal 24lines of a 448-page media guide, Sicuso had to earn his uniform. 
Most walk-ons do not boast lofty high school stats or rake in scholarship money, but prove their worth during a five-week boot camp of weight lifting, will testing and cut-surviving, better known as winter conditioning. 


"(Conditioning] is probably the hardest part. That's where a lot guys quit," said Sicuso, who tried out with about eight other hopefuls. "Truly, if you're not used to it, it's going to be rough." 
During the trial period, coaches inspect the crop for the obvious and the abstract. 
"You have to have the element of abili­ty," head coach Bob Davie said. "But more than that, you have to have the attitude. [We look for] someone who would show up everyday and sacrifice for the better of the team." 
After cuts, the dreamers become real­ists by clocking in up to six hours a day at spring practice and on the scout team. 

Despite a "practicing dummy" stereo­type, they play an important part on the team. 
Repeating drills, sprinting and chal­lenging Saturday's starters is all part of their job description. 
"When we win, they win. When we lose; they lose," Davie said. "They're certainly every bit a part of this team as the guy who takes 80 snaps on Saturday. 
"We could not survive or practice without the walk-ons," he continued. "You know, if you came out here and watched our practice everyday ... you'd understand. I think every one of them is a success story." 
When scouts barter their sweat, exhaustion and time for shoulder pads, helmets and cleats, there's no doubt which is worth more to a walk-on. 
"To tell you the truth, I didn't think I'd make it," said junior Jonathan IIebert, who walked on the team his sophomore year after a season on Zahm's interhall team. "When the trainer told us to get our physicals, I didn't know what to think. It really hit me that I was actually 
see FOOTBALL I page 1 7 
vs Purdue Volleyballvs. New Hampshire 

September 26, 1 :30 p.m. 
at Defiance College Today, 5 p.m. 

SPORTS 

II @ S.::d: 
Today, 6:30p.m.
..&.. ~-vs. Rutgers Cross Country 

-\~
ATA 
Today, 7:30 p.m. 

at National Catholic Soccer at Rutgers Invitational S:¢ vs. Anderson College 

GLANCE 

t':':filt;i Today, 7 p.m. Today, 3:30p.m. Saturday, 1 p.m. 






