
Tuesday, February 3, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No. 83 E INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARYS 
• SAINT MARY's ELECTIONS 
Siefert/Midden ticket wins 

Student Body Election Rnults 
Siefert/Midden 
Wehby/Madden 42.9% 
L 

By COLLEEN McCARTHY 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary's College student body made its 
voice heard in Monday's election for the student 
government president and vice president and 
chose the ticket of Sarah Siefert and Nancy 
Midden. 
Their platform included increasing the role of 
technology, working with the admissions ofl1ce to 
increase enrollment and creating a club for varsity 
athletes. 
After a close vote in Thursday's election in which 
Siefert and Midden prevailed by only onl3~tenth of 
a percent, the run-off election held Moll.diiy pro­
duced a fmal result. 
The Siefert/Midden ticket won with 52.9 percent 
of the vote while the Katie Webby and Kelly 
Madden ticket received 42.9 percent of the student 
vote. Choosing to abstain in the election were 4.2 
percent of the voters. Total voter turn-out was 
59.8 percent, increased significantly from the elec­tion on Thursday in which 49.1 percent ofthe .stu­dent body came out to vote. .... ... . . ... . <\•).
Janet Horvath, Saint Mary!s election commis­
sioner, was pleased with the results ofthe election. 
"I think that all four women are a great asset to 
the college community and I have no doubt that 
Siefert and Midden will serve the college 5vell. l 
also have no doubt that Katie (Webby) and Kelly 
(Madden) will continue to provide contributions to 
the school." Horvath said. 
The newly elected president and vice pr~sident 
were excited at the prospect of beginning their 
new positions. 
"We are really excited about it. We're going to 
have so much fun and we are looking forward to 
working on our platform, too,'1 Siefert said. 
Madden, the fon:ner vice presidential candidate, 
congratulated the winning ticket 
"I congratulate the other ticket and wish them 
the best ofluck," Madden said. 
When asked whether she plans to pursue 
involvement in student government ri~~tyear, 
Madden replied, "I hope to pursue RHA; senior 
board, and perhaps SAB." 
Wehby was less sure of her plans. 
"We're both glad the elections are over., I don't know what I'm going to pursue next year bt1t I'm sure there will be options open to me," she said. 
..... CAMPAIGN ... TRAIL 
This week, The Observer will print 
articles about all 9 tickets running for student 
body president and vice president. 
.,.. Peter Cesaro/Andrca Selak 
Kevin Corrigan/Brian Doherty  
Michelle Costelo/Adrian Cuellar  
Tim Fitzsimons/Brian Murphy  
Alfonso Kennard/Walker Candelario  
....  Mark Leen/Sarah Grunow  
Walter J. Poirier/Gregory E. Smith  
Matt Tomko/Ross Kerr  
Brandon Williams/Julie Reising  
SEEP. 3 FOR STORIES ABOUT TODAY'S FEATURED CANDIDATES  

• ElECTIONS '98 

Roemer will run for fifth term 
T
im Roemer, left, announces his decision to run for a fifth term in the Indiana Third District of Congress. Above, two of his three chil­dren, ages three and four, gather to show support. 
Incumbent touts work in D. C. as campaign begins 
By LAURA PETELLE Assistant News Editor 
Tim Roemer, Democratic repre­sentative for the Indiana Third District, announced yesterday his intention to seek a fifth term in the 
U.S. House of Representatives. 
"I am excited and delighted and honored to be here this morning," Roemer told his supporters and the press at a news conference at the St. Joseph County Democratic Headquarters. 
"This is the best job because it is 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum 

an election to the people's house by the people of this great community," Roemer said. "We want to bring Indiana common sense to Washington, D.C. We want to bring integrity and respect to the nation's capital." 
Roemer summarized his work since he was first elected to the House in 1990, citing the strong economy, reduction in welfare rolls, elimination of tobacco ads in South Bend and th.e new tax breaks for families with children. 
"But [this election] is going to be about the future; it's going to be about a new millennium," Roemer said. 
His platform includes a balanced budget focused on investing in the future of America's children, using the budget surplus to preserve Social Security, and the simplifica­tion of the tax code. 
Roemer's campaign will empha­size education reform; he serves on the House Education Committee and is focused on increasing the number of qualified teachers, reducing class size and ending social promotion. He also supports increased support for charter schools, helping more students attend college and improv­ing worker training. 
"We need new ways to solve old problems in America," Roemer emphasized. 
Roemer -who earned master's and doctorate degrees in interna­tional affairs from Notre Dame ­grew up in Mishawaka, attended Penn High School and is active in the South Bend community. 
Roemer's wife, Sally, and their three children attended the press conference to show their support. 
• CAMPUS liFE COUNCil 


Council discusses raid of Bridget's 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
Associate News Editor 
The Campus Life Council debated the problem of underage drinking at Notre Dame, relative to Friday night's police raid on Bridget McGuire's Filling Station, at its meeting last night. 
The debate began when Sister Carrine Etheridge, rector of Farley Hall, asked vice president for resi­dence life Bill Kirk if the University in any way influenced the decision of the South Bend Police Department to raid the establish­ment. 
"No pressure was brought to bear [by the University]." explained Kirk, who also had heard a rumor that his office was involved. 
"The South Bend Police Department has asked for our help since then and has communicated with the Office of Residence Life concerning those students who were arrested. We will follow up on the list of arrests. 
"But I, personally, was at the Keenan Revue that night," he joked. The debate centered around 

whether or not the University policy standard at Notre Dame. "Alcohol is will come down too harshly on those such a dominant factor in the social students that were caught on life here," said Matt Szabo, Friday. Morrissey Hall senator. "Students "The students have to understand are now going to take [the drinking] to the dorm room where it is not as 


controlled. 'THEY MADE A MISTAKE 
"Basically, a student can break

AND NOW THEY ARE 
the law by drink­GOING TO HAVE TO PAY THE ing in a closed dorm room and it
CONSEQUENCES.' 

will get over­looked," he con­CAPT. RussELL PJCKEIT tinued. 
FACULTY REPRESENTATIVE TO CLC The rectors in 
that they are violating the law," said Capt. Russell Pickett, chair of the department of naval science and faculty representative to the CLC. "We know that they are not bad people. We are not going to toss them because of this, but they made a mistake and now are going to have to pay the consequences of it." 
Some students expressed concern that alcohol abuse was a double 
attendance 
agreed that 

drinking often gets ignored, but only if those that are doing it are doing so in modera­tion. 
"We want people to be mature and responsible," said Sister Mary Ann Mueninghoff, rector of McGlinn Hall. "But sometime it comes to a point where we don't want to be 
see CLC/ page 4 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, February 3, 1998 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
I'n1 with stupid 
There's some sort of saying along the lines of, 
"A person is smart, but the people are stupid." Whieh means that you are smart. and I am smart, and each person at Notre Dame is smart. We got into this school, after all. 
But we are all stupid. 
We didn't think about the wind whipping 


Dan Cichalsld 
Assistant Managing Editor 
down South Quad in January, and we foolish­ly think every August that "this is the year" the football team will win a national title. 
And the people who didn't make it out the back door of Bridget's in time Friday night probably feel pretty stupid right now, too. 
It's probably because of El Nino. Hegardless, this phenomenon has been proven over and over throughout the world. 
One person will go out and toss a baseball around. and another person mightjoin that first person and have a catch. But when sev­eral people get together to play baseball, they become stupid and decide to stop the season in August claiming they need more money because the owners (stupid) are ripping the players ofT so they (the owners) can roll around in more money given to them by the stupid fans. (As an individual baseball fan, I am smart. I root for the Mets.) 
Each individual editor at The Observer is smart. But the people who make up the paper's Editorial Board-and the other edi­tors beneath them -are stupid. This often becomes apparent. 
Alexander Graham Bell was a smart person and invented the telephone. But the people who talk on car phones while driving are stu­pid. 
An engineer is usually a smart person. But the engineers who designed the runway at the Honolulu airport are pretty stupid. The runway there is used as the emergency land­ing area in the Pacific for the Space Shuttle. It's so long that commercial jets use less than half of it. but it's 80 feet too short for the shuttle. A trip wire had to be put at the end to prevent the spaceeraft from plunging into the ocean. should it ever need to land there. 
Two smart people, Matt Damon and Ben Aflleek. wrote a fabulous sereenplay for "Good Will Hunting," and will probably win the Oscar for it. But a mass of stupid people two weeks ago went out to see "Spice World," making a movie about five annoying British wannabes the second-biggest attraction at the box oflice, one spot ahead of "Good Will Hunting." 
Sometimes a person can be so smart that he or she makes others look stupid. Take the person who invented a foam hat in the shape of Swiss cheese. Provided he or she got the patent rights, that person is rather smart. But every Packer fan who tailgates in the parking lots around Lambeau Field looks pretty stupid walking around with foam cheese in a shade of yellow not found in nature upon his or her head. 
A weather person may bn smart enough to use satellite images and radar to predict (well. they try) upcoming weather, and explain the efl'ects of El Nino too. But then a bunch of stupid people will try to get a laugh by saying anything and everything is the result of El Nino's effects on the country. 
Pretty stupid, if you ask me. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAY's STAFF  
News  Accent  
Sarah Hiltz  Andrea Jordan  
Anne Hosinski  Graphics  
Colleen McCarthy  Melissa Weber  
Sports  Production  
Mike Day  Tara Grieshop  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Spence  JeffHsu  
Wedne~day 38 24 


The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday excepr during exam .and vacacion periods. The Observer is a member of the A5Sociatcd Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 



(~--.~j)utside the Dome 
~J \, Compiled from UWire reports 
Man allegedly abuses 13 male students in 90 minutes 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. 

Over the course of 90 minutes early Friday morning, 13 University stu­dents were the vietims of attempted sexual abuse while sleeping in their rooms, according to a Champaign police report. 
The report said that 13 male resi­dents of Bromley Hall, which is stu­dent housing certified by the universi­ty, were sexually abused by a man prowling the building between 2 and 3:30a.m. Friday. 
Each of the victims, who were all white males between the ages of 18 and 19, were asleep in their rooms with their doors unlocked when the suspect entered, the report said. 
The report added that the suspect went into each of the rooms attempt­ing to fondle and engage in oral sex with the victims. 
Only two of the victims were actual­ly fondled or touched by the suspeet before waking, while the other 11 vic­tims woke up before any sexual activ­ity could take place, the report said. 

Champaign Police were not alerted of the incident until 14 hours after the suspect had invaded the last room. 
Police Sergeant Eric MeKee, the responding officer, said he believed the reason the incident was not reported immediately was because the victims themselves did not know the scope of the incident, unaware of the potential danger. 
Marilyn Best, a victim advocate at the Office of Women's Programs, added that often a stigma is attaehed to sexual crimns, preventing victims from reporting the incident immndi­ately. 
"Most victims of sexual assaults don't immediately report (the erime}," said Best. 
Best said it is easier to come for­ward when there are numerous vic­tims, but some residents were not aware of the capacity of the crime until the following day. 
The suspect was described in the report as a 19-year-old white main, who is 5-f'eet-9-inches tall and weighs 140 pounds with black eyes and hair. The report added that the suspect had a "Caesar" haircut, which is pop­ularly known as a George Clooney cut. 
Because of the suspect's age, "CPD is not ruling out that he is a University student or a Bromley resident. 
• UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYlVANIA Acquitted student may file civil suit 
PHILADELPHIA, Penn. 
After freshman Bill Sofield's acquittal on disorderly con­
duct and resisting arrest charges, his family is now 
mulling an option that has always been on the baekburner 
-a civil suit against the University alleging that police 
were unnecessarily brutal when they arrested him. On 
Oct.30, Sofield, 18, his older brother Richard and their 
friend Warnell "Yode" Owens were arrested for disorderly 
conduct outside the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity house on 
Loeust Walk. Owens allegedly assaulted several police olli­
cers before he was subdued forcibly, and Bill Sofield was 
charged with resisting arrest. In the course of the arrest, 
according to FIJI brothers who witnessed the incident, 
police unnecessarily beat Bill Sofield after he fled into the 
fraternity house. The Sofields never filed a formal com­
plaint. But the Division of Public Safety has investigated 
those allegations. The 1 1/2-month probe concluded that 
the 15-20 ollicers who entered the FIJI house to arrest 
Sofield did not act improperly, because force was neces­
sary in order to handcuff Sofield. 
• UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA Forum held to discuss Ebonies 
MINNEAPOLIS, Minn. 
It is the ignorance of Ebonies instead of the language itself that has built an immense education barrier, Geneva Smitherman told a crowd of about 500 people Saturday at the Minneapolis Convention Center. The state's first olli­cial public forum on Ebonies was held to address wide­spread misconceptions regarding Ebonies and education. Smitherman, a professor at Michigan State University and the forum's keynote speaker, said the misunderstandings contribute significantly to the academic plight of black students across the nation and must be addressed. "In December of 1996, everybody and their mama had some­thing to say about Ebonies, but yet few focused on the poor education rates of black students," she said. Smitherman pointed out that the popularity of the lan­guage is too great to ignore in the education system. 
• BOSTON UNIVERSITY Students aid in training monkeys 
BOSTON, Mass. 

As the training supervisor at Allston's Hnlping Hands, 
Sue Costas teaches Boston University work-study recipients 
to train Capuchin monkeys that work with quadriplegi<:s 
across the country. But this is no monkey business. The 
monkeys scrateh itches, change CDs and video cassettes. 
fetch dinner and provide companionship to people who 
have lost control of their limbs. "Companionship is the most 
important thing the monkeys ean give to the quadriplegics," 
Costas says. "It's unconditional love." Nearly all of the train­
ers at Helping Hands are BU students who receive work­
study grants. They make a two-year commitment to the 
organization, usually working 15 hours per week, induding 
breaks and summer vaeation. Once students pass through 
the one-month stage of cleaning up after them, they are 
allowed more exposure to the monkeys. "Students make a 
major commitment when they come here," Costas says. 
"The ones that do are pretty speda!." The use of Capuchin 
or "organ grinder" monkeys to aide quadriplegies was sug­
gested by behaviorist B.F. Skinner. 
• PRINCETON UNIVERSITY Princeton to expand financial aid 
PHINCETON, N.J. 

Boldly expanding Princeton's commitment to provide 
financial aid to lower-and middle-income students, the 
Board of Trustees approved on Jan. 24 what it called "the 
most important changes in Princeton's linandal aid poli­
cies in several decades." The trustees' passage of a plan to 
spend approximately an additional $1.5 million in finan­
cial aid per dass, beginning with the Class of 2002, was 
approved as part of the $572 million operating budget for 
1998-99. That budget also included the lowest increase in 
tuition-3.7 percent-in more than 30 years. The finan­
cial aid package is composed of three parts that will be 
phased in class-by-class over the next four years so that 
once the Class of 2005 arrives, the university expeets to be 
spending $6 million more per year on aid. It currently 
spends about $24 million per year. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Tuesday, Feb. 3. 
AccuWeather~ forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Lines· separate high temperature zones for the day. 
' 
~ /.<.......... _.........................-~ H 
L

I'----~ 
Tuesdaf 
35 25 
I 
i 

Thursday 39'' 24 Friday J 4~+40 28 
.............. 

' .· 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1998 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressura


Saturday _, ~~ 40 26 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY
lt..l'-'\f'' ..,_; \,,,~ 
Aspen. Col. 34 16 Juneau 40 35 Orlando 72 62 Baltimore 47 32 Los Angeles 60 55 Palmyra, Penn. 46 30 Boston 47 34 Milwaukee 35 24 Reno 50 45
4,~,~86ft8 ~ ~ u 
Showers T·storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunn~ Pr. Cloud~ Cloudy 
Cleveland 47 34 Nashville 52 41 St.Louis 44 32 
Via Assoc1ated Press GraphiCsNst 
Honolulu 79 62 New Orleans 61 47 Seanle 52 41 


in the race for student body president and vice president. 
• MARK lEEN/SARAH GRUNOW 


From blind date to running mate 

By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
News Writer 
M
ark Leen and Sarah Grunow share several 
things -a passion for singing and mint­
chocolate-chip ice-cream. experience in some facet of student government, and a box on the ballot for the 1998 elections at Notre Dame. 
Leen is running for president and Grunow for vice president in Monday's student government elec­tions. Though they know each other from Student Senate meetings, their first encounter came when a mutual friend set them up on a blind date for a Walsh formal dance in their freshman year. 
But the similarities end there. 
Grunow has lived her whole life in Grosse Pointe Farms. Mich., a suburb of Detroit; Leen was born in Miami, Fla., raised in a suburb of Seattle, Wash., and now lives in Georgia. A government and eco­nomies major, Leen is talkative and extremely forth­right with his opinions. Grunow, a mechanical engi­neer. is also outgoing but communicates less verbal­ly and more through her actions and expressions. 
Leen is the second of four children, his father a private defense attorney and his mother a full-time homemaker. He said one of his most vivid memories is driving cross-country en route to Georgia, stuck in a truck with no air conditioning during the mid­dle of a heat wave and arguing with his brother Craig the entire way. 
lie said that he and Craig, a Columbia University law student, love to debate and discuss various issues. 
"I really respect his opinion," said Leen. "I just don't tell him that." 
He added, "I get in a lot of 3 a.m. discussions. I debated in high school, and like to discuss issues and polities. I also love to just talk with people." 
Leen spent last semester studying in London, but he is back in Stanford Hall and has returned to the Liturgical Choir. Last year, he was heavily involved in Student Senate, but stepped back because he chose to go to London. 
lie is a big fan of science-fiction books and 

'HE [LEEN]IS COMPETITIVE AND DEDICAT­
ED TO WHAT HE BELIEVES IN.' 
SARAH GRUNOW 
movies, particularly the stand-by favorites Star Wars and Star Trek. 
Candid about his ambitions, Leen said, "I love the Pacific Northwest. I'd love to be the U.S. Attorney for the western Washington district. I think I'm good at setting forth a point of view and defending it. 
"I won't rule out politics. That's an understate­ment. I might like to be president of the United States. I wouldn't be honest if I didn't say that's occurred to me, even though it makes me look like an idiot. I believe helping people become what they 
The Observer/Katie Kroener 

'SARAH IS EASY TO GET ALONG WITH ••• 
DEDICATED ••• AND GOOD AT WORKING 
WITH PEOPLE.' 
MARKLEEN 

want to be is one of the noblest things a government can do." 
"[Mark is] competitive and dedicated to what he believes in and willing to work for it even if it is unpopular," Grunow said. 
THE RUNNING MATE 
A Walsh Hall resident, Grunow is extremely active around campus. She is a member of the women's 
see LEEN-GRENOW/ page 6 
• PETER CESARO/ANDREA SElAK 
After class councils, duo sets sights higher 

By COLLEEN McCARTHY 
News Writer 
Running mates Peter Cesaro and Andrea Selak met through their involvement in student government councils. 
But they did not realize their shared ambitions until last summer, when Cesaro, last year's sophomore class presi­dent, helped pass the torch to the new officers for the class of 2000. 
During that transition, he and Selak, the class vice presi­dent, found out they both cov­eted the leadership positions for which they are now run­ning. 
"Our ideas really gelled; a lot of our visions for the University go along so well together," Selak said. "It [winning this election] has been a goal of mine since I outside student government. go out on Thursday nights, as "Our slogan for the campaign well as in the evening on the 

is 'Putting stu­ last  day  of  
dents first.' We  classes before  
want to bring  exams  begin.  
student govern­ 'IT [WINNING THE ELEC­ Safe Ride  
ment to the students," Cesaro said.  TION) HAS BEEN A GOAL OF MINE SINCE I  should be there for the students,"  
The  duo  GOT HERE, AND HIS, TOO.'  Cesaro said.  

plans to fulfill this slogan by focusing on attending hall council meet­ings, examining food quality in the dining halls, privatizing SafeRide and clari­fying students' rights. 
Privatizing. SafeRide entails turning the service over to a professional limo company, which Cesaro believes will ensure reliability and a more fixed and fre­quent schedule of SafeRide 
g?t her.~, and runs.
'OUR SLOGAN FOR
his, too. Emphasizing
THE CAMPAIGN IS
Both Cesaro that many stu­and Selak "PUTTING STUDENTS dents, includ­
identify inter-F1RST.,, actions with 
fellow students as a priority not only in 
their cam­paign's plat­forms but also in their lives 
ing himself, do 
not have a car, 
Cesaro said 

PETER CESARO that SafeRide needs to be there for the students. "Large groups of people do 
"It should be accessible for ANDREA SELAK underclassmen also in case they want to go out for din­
ner or to a movie," he added, referring to the fact that SafeRide now only runs on weekends. 
Cesaro, a junior, is Knott Hall's co-president and former­ly served as Flanner Hall's freshman representative. Among other duties, his sopho­more running mate Selak co­chairs the student government Social Concerns Committee, served as commissioner for the Junior Parents' Weekend lun­cheon and sits on the Council for International Business Development. 
When they find free time, both Selak and Cesaro like to spend it with their friends. 
"Another of my outlets is 
see CESARO-SELAK/ page 6 

·-----~----, 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 3, 1998 
Panel discusses AIDS from Catholic perspective 

A
group of panelists discussed the responsibilities of the Catholic Church in ministering to and dealing with AIDS patients. 
By ERIN LUM 
News Writer 
;\s the AIDS npidemic begins to find victims in every facet of society, and development of a cunl in the near future seems improbable, members of the Catholic Church have taken various steps to provide care and preventjon measures to those infected or affected by the disease. 
In a panel discussion last night, a panel of six Catholics who work with AIDS infected persons spoke about their experiences incorporating their work with their faith. 
CLC 
continued from page 1 
facilitators and we have to step 
in." 
"There is a certain advantage for the rector to be able to go into any situation without hav­ing the kids in the room worry about the alcohol," Kirk agreed. "But in this situation, the Office of Hesidence Life has not heard any of the cases. These kids broke the law and now we expect them to be accountable for their actions." 
While no action was taken, 

INTERNATIONAL 

JoB SlillLS 
New professional M.A. in International Affairs or lnteramerican Studies prepares you rapidly for exciting careers: 
0 environmental studies 0 public health 0 government 0 international 
organizations 0 international media, business Learn valuable analytic skills from economics and the social sciences. 
Complete this intensive multi-disciplinary degree in 12 to 15 months, while living in a fascinating international city. 
Free details. 
SCHOOL OF 
INTERNATIONAL STUDIES 
CorJI Gables, FL 33124-3010 
30S-2844173; Fax: 305-2844406 
www.miami.edu/sis 


One ·panelist, Sister Rose Firkus, has worked at AIDS ministries for nearly five years. ller job involves HIV testing and education. a job she finds personally rewarding. 
"Before, I thought I wanted to work with children who are infected," she said. "I have come to understand that it is a greater call for me to be involved with those who are rejected by society. Children are never rejected, but many others are." 
Part of Firkus' work involves educating people about how to protect themselves from con­tracting the HIV virus, which 





Pickett, the chair of the alcohol • Facilities Operations a­committee, said that his com­greed as part of the dorm reno­mittee was still investigating vations to begin putting laundry ways of addressing alcohol facilities in men's dorms. "The abuse on campus. "This bust bad news is that they will not had lousy timing," he joked. be able to start until at least "Because it came when the Christmas," said Kirk. "I expect committee isn't ready to pre­us to have at least one dorm a sent anything. But we are look­year, but I am not sure about ing at different ways of using that." our resources available to help Kirk cited time and money the problem." constraints as reasons that the 
In other CLC news: construction of any facilities 

Campus Ministry Events 
OFFICE OF CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hesburgh Library 
631-7800 
112 Badin Hall 
631-5242 
Basilica Offices 
631-8463 
Website: 
www.nd.edu./ -ministry I 
can effectively be done through use of condoms. According to Firkus, a Franciscan nun, rec­ommending the use of condoms does not come into conflict with her faith. 
"We have to give people information so they can make decisions about life and so they can protect their life," Firkus said. 
"The Catholic Church teaches us to respect life from begin­ning to end, and this is helping to preserve life." 
Another panelist, Rob Ercoline, works as the director of Outreach Ministries at Little Flower Church. Part of his min­
istry involves helping secure needs like food, housing, and transportation to doctors for !\IDS infected persons. 
"Oftentimes people with AIDS are unable to work, and at Little Flower Church, we sec the call of the parish to be a bridge between the poor and the non-poor," Ercoline said. 
"Whether you say it or not, by doing these things you're telling them you care and opening up the opportu­nity for a per­

"You have to realize that AIDS is not about who I am as a person or who anyone is as a person ... there aro a lot of innocent victims in this thing." 
Panelist Brother Stevn Nanni, a minister to patients at the St. Joseph County llospiee agreed. 
"We as a culture, soeiety or church need to be more open to persons different than our­selves," Nanni said. "In my work, the degree to which I am able to listen to a person is the degree to which 
sonal connec­ 'AIDS IS NOT ABOUT  I  am  able  to  
tion." While other p a n e l i s t s  WHO I AM AS A PER­SON ••• THERE ARE A LOT OF  provide healing to that person. I feel the need to  
spoke of their work with  INNOCENT VICTIMS IN THIS  affirm and vali­date the lives of  
people infect- THING.'  persons,  no  
ed with AIDS,  matter  who  
one panelist shared his  GREG SANCI!EZ  they are. because of my  
personal  DIRECTOR OF Lf.MAC  faith."  

experience of living with the disease. Greg Sanchez, who has AIDS and runs a support organization called Let's Make A Change, Inc. (LeMac). said support for those infected with the disease should extend beyond a Catholic response to AIDS, and rather be a universally human response to those with the dis­ease. 
"Isolation is not the key ­society needs to speak compas­sion and love and help unsi­lence people," Sanchez said. 
will take so long. 
• The diversity committee announced the possibility of having a "Learning to Talk about Race" retreat for student leaders in the spring. "This will give the leaders a chance to have this experience and bring it back to their groups," said Brandon Williams, Zahm Hall senator and committee chair. "Hopefully it will be really help­ful and effective." 
Tuesday, February 3, 7:00 pm Campus Ministry-Badin Hall 
Campus Bible Study 
Wednesday, February 4, 7:30-S:OOpm Keenan-Stanford Chapel 


Contemporary Prayer 
An Inter-denominational Prayer Service featuring the new Contemporary Choir. 
Of special interest: . NOW! Sign up for the February 6-7 Freshmen Retreat for residents of Badin, Dillon, Lewis, Morrissey, Pasquerilla East, St. Ed's, Walsh and Zahm. Please see your Rector or stop by Campus Ministry,103 Hesburgh Library for application forms. . Welcome to our gay and lesbian students 
Campus Ministry welcomes any gay or lesbian undergraduates, or those discerning their sexual orientation, to come together for conversation, support and friendship. Call Kate Barrett @ 631-5242 or Alyssa at 634-1884. All conversations are completely confidential. 
Last night's panel discus­sion, entitled 

"The Catholic Hesponse to AIDS," was part of a week-long schedule of AIDS education activities leading up to this weekend's viewing of the ;\IDS quilt on campus. 
ST·UDY 


EUROPE 
SYRACUSE 

ABROAD 
IN 

STRASBOURG 
EUROPEAN 
STUDIES 
CERTIFICATE 
COUNCIL 
OF EuROPE 
INTERNSHIPS 
GRANTS 
LOANS & 
SCHOLARSHIPS 
SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY 119 Euclid Avenue Syracuse, NY 13244-mo 1-800-235-3472 suabroad@ syr.ed u http:// su mweb.syr.ed u/di pa 

Tuesday, February 3, 1998 
• WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
AIDS deaths drop in 19.97 
CHICAGO, Ill. 

AIDS deaths across the United States dropped a stunning 44 percent in the first half of last year, showing the power of new treatments to control the disease. Doctors have known almost since they began widely prescribing potent three-drug combinations two years ago that fewer people with AIDS were dying, but even the experts seem sur­prised by the scope of their success. "We can't see the end of the epidemic, but it's the beginning of a new era," said Dr. Kevin DeCock of the national Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta. The lat­est evidence of this change came Monday when CDC officials presented new data at the Fifth Conference on Retroviruses and Opportunistic Infections. Deaths from AIDS peaked in 1994 and 1995, then nosed down­ward in 1996. Last year, that fall accelerat­ed. "Treatment is having a marked, dramat­ie impact on AIDS mortality," said the CDC's Dr. Patricia Fleming. According to the CDC, 
12.040 Americans died of AIDS in the first half of 1997, compared with 21.460 in the first half of 1996. The total nationwide fig­ures for last year will not be tallied until July. However, they are already in for New York City, and they show an even more impressive change. Experts from the city Department of Health reported that AIDS deaths fell there 48 percent in 1997. This comes on top of a 29 percent decline in New York AIDS deaths in 1996. 
Australia ready to cut ties to British monarchy 
CANBERRA, Australia 

Australia appears ready to cut its last 
links to the British monarchy, with most 
delegates at a constitutional convention 
saying they favor replacing Queen Elizabeth 
II as the nation's head of state. Prime 
Minister John Howard, a staunch monar­
chist, opened the two-week assembly 
Monday with a pledge to put any model for 
a republic to a national referendum by the 
end of 1999. That could allow an Australian 
head of state to open the summer Olympics 
in Sydney in 2000 and lead the nation into 
the new millennium, and its second century 
of independence. Australia has been inde­
pendent since 1901, but like many other 
Commonwealth nations, it still recognizes 
Britain's queen as its head of state. 
Republicans want constitutional change so 
the nation can choose its own head of state, 
and opinion polls show more than half of 
Australians agree. What the convention 
must do now is sort out how the nation can 
become a republic without upsetting the 
system of checks and balances on power 
that most Australians favor. More than 150 
delegates gathered Monday at the Old 
Parliament House -a venue ripe with 
reminders of Australia's links to Britain. 
Dow 
+2.88 

]ONES 
Nasdaq: 1652.89

8107.78 

+33.53 
NYSE: 520.72 + 10.09 
S&P 500: Composite 1001.27 Volume: 

+20 1.28 +20.99 876,886,800 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 

!rMliiW DC'='fB 4!:i.n-L\!Irr.f I G41t!l ~BICf 
FLAME!. TECII FLMLY 55.77 1.825 5.06 HAYOU STF.F.l BYX 43.75 43.75 5.75 CELI.PRO INC CPRO 37.50 37.50 3.44 E·NET ETELW 31.71 31.71 3.38 DEPOMF.D DPMDW 31.25 31.25 5.25 
BIGj;EST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 

STRATF.SEC SPT 54.17 3.25 2.70 ~ONIC SOLUTIONS SNIC 25.00 1.00 3.00 DIOSYS CORP DIYSW 23.80 0.625 2.00 MOTEL DISCOVERY MOTD 23.80 0.625 2.00 NATL AUTO NAFI 20.00 0.500 2.00 
AssociATED PREss 
RIYADH, Saudi Arabia 
Secretary of State Madeleine Albright today said Saudi Arabia sees "eye to eye" with the U.S. posi­tion on inspecting Iraq's weapon sites, but apparently hasn't agreed to allow American warplanes to use Saudi air bases if U.S. military action is taken. 
Reiterating Clinton administration demands that Iraq rid itself of chem­ical and biological weapons, Albright said Saudi Arabia and other coun­tries in the region are in danger of attacks from Iraq. 
But after talks with Saudi officials in a desert retreat, she sidestepped whether the Saudis had approved use of air bases here for American warplanes. 
"If we had gotten a yes, she would have said so," said a senior U.S. offi­cial, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
Saudi leaders will weigh the issue of U.S. use of air bases here while Albright is in Bahrain Monday night before going to Egypt then home on Tuesday. 
In Moscow, a Russian news agency reported today that Iraqi President Saddam Hussein is ready to receive the chief U.N. weapons inspector and name up to eight presidential sites for inspection. A spokesman for President Boris Yeltsin said Russian Foreign Minister Yevgeny Primakov called Yeltsin to tell him of Saddam's offer, ITAR-Tass reported. 
But hours later, Iraq denied there was any agreement. 
Albright said Primakov discussed a similar proposal with her in Madrid when they met last week, but she was skeptical of the offer and it fell far short of U.S. demand for uncon­ditional inspections, said the U.S. official. 
Twice declaring herself still "skep­tical" of Hussein's intentions, Albright said today that it was up to Richard Butler, chairman of the U.N. commission on inspections, to decide "whether he sees any reason" to go to Baghdad. 
President Clinton, meanwhile, 
AFP Photo 

A
woman walks with her children in front of a sign praising Iraqi president Saddam 
Hussein yesterday in Baghdad. 
called Yeltsin to discuss "the serious situation concerning Iraq's noncom­pliance" with U.N. mandates, a White House official said. "President Clinton stressed the need for unity among Security Council members." 
Clinton agreed with Yeltsin on the desirability of a diplomatic solution "but said Saddam's continued defi­ance and refusal to allow adequate (U.N.) inspections were unaccept­able," the official said, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
Albright conferred with Saudi offi­cials after a two-hour, five-course luncheon in a royal tent 60 miles from the Saudi capital. 
Saudi officials said in a statement they agree with "the necessity of total and unconditional compliance by the Iraqi government" in permit­ting unfettered inspections. If diplo­macy fails it "would lead to grave consequences whose responsibility would lie exclusively on the Iraq gov­ernment," the statement said. 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, February 3, 1998 
ing pep rallies for away football games. Currently, Cesaro has narrowed his
Cesaro-Selak A self-admitted basketball fan, Cesaro plans for after graduation to three Blair voices 
also played soccer and lacrosse for options, which include entering the work­
Flanner Hall earlier in his college career. force, going to law school or volunteering 
"I do also like to golf," Cesaro admitted, for a year. running," Selak said, "and I also like to "but I haven't been able to get out and "I am a business student, so I have cook." play golf yet." thought about getting a job -which my 
Said Cesaro. "I like to hang out with my Summing up his use of spare time, parents would like," Cesaro said. friends and maybe go to CJ's to get a Cesaro said, "I believe in working hard Community service also plays a major hamburger with them sometimes." and playing hard. Sometimes." part in Cesaro's life with his volunteer 
Being involved in theater when she was As a double major in government and work as a reading tutor at the Monroe younger, Selak also enjoys going to plays. American studies, Selak plans to focus Center for Housing Projects. 
"I love going to Chicago and any the­her career on politics. This commitment to service is not atrical performances there or on cam­"I plan on being in politics and possibly something Cesaro wants to leave behind pus," Selak said. going to law school," Selak said. "I defi­in the future. 
Although her time is limited by holding nitely want to participate in politics "I would like to focus on community lf1adership positions and the typical work though and public service." service in whatever I do," he said. of a student, Selak said she likes to Cesaro has a double major in finance "I also want a family when I get older attempt to "keep up on what's going on in and computer applications. In addition to and would like to be able to provide for the world." reading Business Week, Cesaro also finds them what my family has provided for 
Also, Cesaro enjoys going to pep rallies, time to read Sports Illustrated every me." something that spawned his idea of hav-week. 
continued from page 3 

Grunow's father sells radio air­Campus Life Council represen­students in a more effective time, and her mother is the tative, and was involved in the way. In terms of experience, we


Leen­

head proofreader at the Bozelle Constitutional Review are the best people for the job. Association. Committee. We realize our limitations and

Grenow 

"Eventually, I want to go to He got started by working on have a good outlook," he said. law school and be a patent student council in high school, "As far as experience," said
continued from page 3 

lawyer. I've also thought about as well as working on a commit­Grunow, "Mark helped write being a senator. I love tee which helped run the the constitution, and I'm thechoir, acted in "Joseph and the Washington," said Grunow. school's curriculum. only person on campus who has
Amazing Tcchnicolor 

"One of my friends said last In high school, Grunow partic­been involved in both the
Dreamcoat" with Pasquerilla 

night that I have an Arts and ipated in a statewide student Student Senate and student gov­East last fall. and competes on 
Letters personality and an engi­Congress, something which ernment."
the Notre Dame sailing team. 

neering mind." piqued her interest in politics. If elected, the two plan to cut
Amid these activities, she 

"[Sarah is] easy to get along She is now acting as the liaison down the student governmentserves as student government­with, outgoing, dedicated to between student government budget and return more moneysenate liaison; when she man­what she sets out to do, and and Student Senate, a position to students, use the offices of 
ages to find some free time, 

good at working with people," often dubbed "the loop of stu­president and vice president "asshe likes to sit back and read, Leen said. dent government." constitutionally intended," buildespecially children's literature The pair is experienced in "What I really had been think­a consensus so that concernsand mysteries. 
student government and ing about was that there was a and reservations are considered
"I love musicals, especially 

Student Senate -Leen was a lot of apathy in student govern­before going to the University,
'The Sound of Music,"' said 

Student Senator last year, rep­ment, and I want to see stu­get lighting on God Quad as a
Grunow. "Adventures in 

resenting one of the four dis­dents feel more connected," safety issue, work on extendingBabysitting" is also a favorite. 
tricts on campus. said Leen. SafeRide and establishing a
"That's the kind of thing that 

While in office, he worked on "I want to make this a univer­campus shuttle, and possiblywould happen to me." 
the Senate Budget Committee, sity where students feel the establish a satellite Grab-n-GoHer only sibling, younger sis­served as chairman of the administration is responsive, in LaFortune so that people onter Annie, is a freshman at the Ethics Committee, was the and have money going back to very tight schedules can eat.
University of Michigan. 


FBI suspects ' 
Astodated Prus 

were sent to or how the FBI obtained the Majority Foundation, said the 
BIRMINGHAM, Ala. them. He said it is "too soon to say any~~,,l(:ltte~s from the Army of God "must be 
The FBI said Monday it is investigating thing now about the autll,enticlty of the!{ very seriously." She said the letters )t)tters claiming the fatal bombing at a letters. . W&MiHV>''i""' ·· · · · tlanta.clinic bombing warned Birmingham abortion clinic was orches­The Army of God is 'aiiil.lime, .. ·• ~ > ,·,. tf&Ci}ity t~:trgeted may not be trated by the "Army of God," the same been circulating since the 1980s as a, orrie . ,,.· ... ' ly that is what happened ln group that said it bombed an abortion for radical anti-abortion actions, including 4/J Birmingham." · clinic and gay nightclub in Atlanta last circulating a manual that contains infor-Workers preparing to reopen the New year. mation on how to make bombs. Woman All Women Health Care clinic said · FBI spokesman Craig Dahle said the let­It's not clear who makes up the organi-it was the "safest clinic in the U.S." after ters signed by the ''Army of God'' are zation, although various anti-abortion the .bombing on Thursday. handwritten with block print -similar to activists have either been linked to it or "We will be seeing. patients on Thursday ones sent after the Atlanta bombings. claimed to he part ofit years. ··.. "said · · Derzis. 


Attention All Undergraduates! If you ever thought about becoming a diplomat, don't miss the following event. 
HAn Informal Conversation with Ambassador J.D. Bindenagel" 
Acting U.S. Ambassador to Germany, 1996-1997 Director, Central European Affairs, Dept. of State, 1992-1994 Deputy Ambassador to East Germany, 1989-1990 Friday, February 6 5:15-6:15 p.m. Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
Sponsored by the Nanovic Institute for European Studies, the Department of Government and International Studies, and the Hesburgh Program in Public Service 



praise for Clinton 
Associated Press 
LONDON 
Prime Minister Tony Blair, declaring "politics shouldn't bn run at the level of a gossip col­umn." praised President Clinton on Monday for focusing on broader issues during the Monica Lnwinsky scandal. 
Preparing for his first ol1ieial visit to Washington since win­ning a landslide victory in May, Blair said there is "sometimes an interest bordering on an obsession" with politicians' per­sonal lives that distracts lead­ers from important global issues. 
"I am proud to call Bill Clinton a friend," the prime ministr.r, who flies to Washington on Wednesday for a four-day visit, told U.S. correspondents during a pre-trip briefing. 
Clinton vehemently denies allegations that he had a sexual relationship with Ms. Lewinsky while she was a White llousn intern and then urged her to lie about it. 
Asked why he felt Clinton was still drawing record high ratings in public opinion polls, Blair said: "Because I think the public in the end is more canny than sometimes the media give them credit for. 
"They believe that the presi­dent is right to focus on these big-picture issues. They no doubt heard the State of the Union address and have seen the strength of the economy," he said. "They see the president articulating tlwir concerns on schools and living standards and how they can create a bet­ter America." 
The prime minister also praised Clinton for encouraging Northern Ireland peacemaking, which is striving to end decades of sectarian violence. 
'He has been absolutely solid as a rock on this matter, all the­way throughout, and it has been of considerable assistance in trying to put pressure on everyone to come together," Blair said. "There is no excuse for anybody in any set of eir­cums~~nccs to go back to vio­lence. 


Tuesday, February 3, 1998 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Prof, mystery writer discusses double role 
By DAVID FREDDOSO 
News Writer 
Many students at Notre Dame know Professor Ralph Mcinerny as a senior member of the philosopHy department. But few are probably aware of his pro­lific career as a fiction and mystery writer. 
·Last night, Mcinerny, the author of the Father Dowling Mysteries, lectured at Knights of Columbus Hall on his career as an author. 
Mcinerny arrived at Notre Dame as a philosopher with a wife and six chil­dren. Money was tight, and he had bought a house that he could not quite afford. And so to supplement his income, he turned to fiction writing. 
The key to writing, Mcinerny said, is "doing it, and not just thinking about doing it." And so he made a resolution in January of 1964 for the whole rest of the year to spend four hours writing each day. 
Mcinerny, like all professors in those days, had to teach a full six days a week, and in addition to his profession­al duties he made it a high priority to spend time with his family. As a result, he spent the late hours of each night laboring at his typewriter. 
"One of the advantages of starting the way that I did is that I'm disci­plined now," he said. "I write every day: I don't have good days and bad days-they all seem the same." 


In one year, he turned out 60 short stories, which he sent under pseudonyms to various maga­zines, such as Redbook and Good Housekeeping. Almost all of his works were rejected, but eventu­ally he got the formula down right. His first very successful novel, "The Priest," was published in 1973. As he explained, it was inspired by Pope Paul VI's encycli­cal letter "Humani Vitae." 
"All hell broke loose in the world after the Pope invigorated the stance of the Catholic Church on artificial contraception and abortion, and 'The Priest' was motivated by those concerns," he said. 
Later on he turned to mystery writing, which, as he explained, provided a much greater degree of creativity and freedom. 
"Most writers are always worry­ing about their reputation," he said. "But mystery writers just seem to be at that stage where they're just having fun and they philosophy professor and fiction writer Ralph Mcinerny love to do it." last night described both the criticisms and praise he 
In addition, he said, the genre has receiyed from his colleagues throughout his career. allows for a greater quantity of 
name. 
At first, Mcinerny used pseu­donyms in writing mystery in order to protect his professional reputation as a philosopher. In his early years in academia, he said, "If people thought that you were writing mysteries, they might have thought that you weren't serious or that you weren't doing your professorial work," he said. 
But today he has no. shame about his second career. 
"Most of my colleagues are amused that I write fiction," he said. 
Professor Mcinerny recently began a new series of mysteries set on Notre Dame's campus. ''I'm trying to give some sense of the lore of Notre Dame along with a mystery plot," he said. 
The first book of this series, "On This Rockne," was pub­lished last year. The plot centers on an actual novel which Knute Rockne wrote entitled "The Four Winners." The solution of the murder mystery, he said, centers around the question of 
output. want." "how somebody who did so many 
"If you come out with a novel every The Father Dowling Mysteries, his things as well as Rockne could write two years, that is considered very most famous series of books, even such a bad book." fast," he said. "But when you write attracted a television contract. The The next book in this series, "The mystery, none of that matters any­product of that contract was the widely Lack of the Irish," is due within the more. You can publish as many as you aired television show by the same next few weeks. 
• PHlliPP!NES 



Rescuers discover wreckage; reports of survivors conflict 
Associated Press 
CLAVERIA 

Rescuers found the wreckage of a passenger plane Tuesday spread out over in a mountain in the southern Philippines, but there were conflicting reports on whether any of 104 people aboard had survived. 
Airline officials said at least 15 survivors were spotted near the wreckage of the jet, but helicopter pilots flying over the area said they saw no signs of human life. 

The search for the twin­engine Cebu Pacific Air DC-9 aircraft started Monday morn­ing shortly after it failed to land as scheduled in the southern Philippine city of Cagayan de Oro. 
The plane's wreckage was found on Mount Sumagaya, 28 miles northeast of the plane's destination, rescue workers said. A local religious group and an army detachment reported hearing an explosion near the 7,260-foot mountain about the time the plane disap­peared. 
A local mayor said villagers had been able to rescue 15 peo­ple and found 30 bodies. "Cebu Pacific has confirmed visual contact with 15 survivors," the airline said in a statement. 
The whereabouts of the sur­vivors, however, were not immediately clear. 


Searchers and an Associated Press reporter in helicopters over the site saw no further signs of life, and strong winds forced the helicopters to with­draw. 
Col. Jacinto Ligot, comman­der of the rescue effort, said he had ordered army troops and paramedics to climb the moun­tain to the crash site. 
"We did not see any big por­tion of the plane and we assume that it exploded. We saw debris but we did not see any moving human beings or any people around," he said. 
Parts of the plane appeared to have slipped down the moun­tain into thick groves of trees below. 
Air transportation officials said Tuesday the airplane was making a visual, not instru­ment, landing approach when it disappeared. 
The plane had made an unscheduled stop at another airport and therefore was not on its normal flight path. 
The plane's route took it over high mountains and deep ravines, with thick clouds cov­ering some slopes. The plane was carrying 99 passengers, including five children, and five crew when it disappeared. The passengers were said to include one Japanese, one Austrian and a Canadian; there were no immediate reports of any Americans aboard. 
atbj,.;~b/bej,, c~e #t,:;.;/o/te/~J 
Post Graduate Yr. Volunteer Program 
Post-Graduate Yr. Volunteer Program See the info Booth Wednesday, February 4 from 1:00 to 5:00p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. 
A general Information Session will be held at 
6:00 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. 
~~' ....I\O.IIi'&'-' 
1 . s~t•"' · ~ .,,,~...,
-~·\ ..·. .. .\\~' . ,,~· ' .. ~·.. .. ""''~·· ' 

t.lli~ • ,.., "· 


~,t, ~,,..;._··------------------, 
•'\• '"'' oat''\. 


Meeting for Notre Dame Lesbian and Gay Students Group 
Tomorrow, Tuesday, February 3, 1998 For time and location of meeting, call: l-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C 
. Sr.Mary Louise Gude, C. S.C. 
All Meetings are private and confidential. 








VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Tuesday, February 3, 1998 
THE OBSERVER 
NomE DAME OmcF.: P.O. Box Q, Norrc Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'> OH'ICF.: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Man01ging Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 
llan Cichalski News Editor......... . ....... Heather Cocks Advertising Manager...........................jed Peters Viewpoint Editor .......... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager... ....... Jennifer Breslow Sports Editor.. . ................. Mike Day Production Manager... . ....... Mark DeBoy 
Accent Editor..... .. ............ Joey Crawford Systems Manager ...............Mi<.:had Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ......................Lori Allen Controller. . ............................. Kyle Carlin Photo Editor .......................... Kuie Kroener 

The Obscrv<"r is the indepcndem newspaper published by the studems of rhe University of Notre Dame du L1l' and Saint Mary's Coll~c. lr doe~ nO[ necessarily reflect the policies of the administration ofeither instinnion. The new~ is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Edimr-in-Chie{ Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News 
Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Ediror, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Ediror, and Associate 
News Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present rhe views ofthe authors. and nor neces­.\;uily rhose ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's communiry and ro all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Mana~ing Editor  631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
Ncw.\/Phoro  631-5323  Syscems  631-8839  
Spom  631-454.~  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Editor/Viewpoint  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint. I @nd.edu  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observcr@darwin.cc.nd.edu  

• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

An Open Letter to Mr. Wadsworth 
Picturn this ... a police oflicer is brought in by thn University of Notrn Dame and its athletic dnpartmnnt to stand, arms crossnd, in front of the student snetion to do one job. I lis pri­mary job on this particular night is not to stop our students from throwing objects on the court; it is not to control our students from rushing on the lloor aftnr a hugn victory (we havo our gracious ushers to do that); it is not to control Monk's overllowing nmotions; it is how­evnr. to stop a few creative bas­ketball fans from !lashing occa­sional signs promoting our ESPN eovnragc. 
I. along with a number of my fellow peers, have a few prob­lmns with this. To begin with, this upstanding patrolman nnvnr onee "flew" into the other snctions to tear down numerous other banners. I caught him even throwing aside a few of my fellow loyalists to yank down a sign that read, "Sports Centnr Next." II' that is not pathetic, I'm not sure what is. In faet, it is embarrassing, and I hope that while ESPN was focusing on one of these inge­nious signs. it was ripped from the hands of the chllering fan. Such a scene shown in front of a national television audience would prove just how infantile this University has become. 
I was told by the athletic department that it is contacted daily by fans complaining of the actions of our student body. A direct result of such negative feedbaek was the elimination of the announcing of the starting lineups at football games. For similar rnasons, the University administrators have gone out on a limb to have our esteemed band do their dirty work for them and drown out the stu­dents' chants during the announcing of the starting line­ups at basketball games. Well, I will tell this athletic department right now, forget it! Stop wast­ing your time! We are going to yell "sucks" every game until we graduate. I may even come back for a few games in the future and yell it again. In addi­tion, we are going to continue to create signs game after game. If the authorities tear one down, then there is going to be another right behind it. This is our Notre Dame. 
Earlier in the season, I, along with a dozen or so of our most ardent basketball fans, wrote a letter to athletic director Michael Wadsworth demanding an explanation for why the stu­dent seats at the floor level were eliminated, thus discon­tinuing a tradition of allowing us, the paying student body, to be "as close as possible to our bench and the game action." "Unfortunately," the response letter said, "the students sitting in these seats have gone well beyond the bounds of good sportsmanship. The taunts, insults, and profane language hurled at opposing players and officials is simply something we do not want to have happen at our games." 
In the meantime, ushers with whom we have spoken have said that our behavior was within limits, especially at the National Invitational Tournament last year against Michigan at the Joyce Center. Bill Scholl, assistant director of the athletic department. 

answered further in the letter, "Contrary to the opinion stated in your letter, the type of behavior that has been exhibit­ed from these seats in past years not only has offended all who hear it but also, we have been told by opposing coaches, has helped motivate the visiting team." Well, Mr. Scholl, ask Mr. Bergan of Syracuse what he thinks of our chanting student body. Also, Mr. Wadsworth and Mr. Scholl, have either of you been to a basketball game at Duke or the University of Cincinnati? These two schools and numerous others are known for creating a crazy and exciting environment for their games. And you know what: it does not diminish the reputa­tion of their respective institu­tions at all. In fact, unfortu­nately, the last time I looked, Duke was near the top of the college ranking with Harvard, Yale, and Princeton by its side. For us, being stuck at the edge of top 20 schools is another issue altogether. 
Mr. Garrity and company are on their way to big things, and we plan to be right behind them. We have been knocked too many times as a student body about our spirit, support, and excitement. Now that we are out there cheering loudly and boisterously, all that you can do is think of ways to bring it to a screeching halt. 
Jared Birnbaum Junior Jim Herbe 
• Sophomore 
Siegfried Hall Jan.uary 23, 1998 

"More to 'genetic' than you think 
Ken Filchak is right to point out that it would be very odd an informed person to say "heritable does not mean ·'lllflDI~t·ic;-: since that is precisely what it does mean. 
ate reasons why Dr. Jeffrey Satinover might have . on this point. however. so let's be falr. ·· · is a measure of that portion of the phenotypic variance in a population correlated with genetic variance in the same population. Phenotypic variance in hum<m beings is also correlated with two other parameters, mea­sures of shared and non-shared environmental variance. There are good statistical packages !'or assigning meaning­ful values to that portion of phenotypic variance correlated with, or dare I say, caused by, the genetic variance in a particular population. However, this approach does NOT involve identification. of the underlying genetic and epige­netic causal mechanisms leading to the development of a specific phenotype. 
Maybe that's what Dr. Satinover said, or meant to say. On .• the other hand, it is also possible, since physicians trained · and not associated with a teaching med­
. school rarely have any instruction in research statis­tics, while those of Dr. Satinover's generation had little or no training in molecular genetics, that Dr. Satinover is him-
quite confused about the issue. we return to a new perennial question at Notre can the director of the Maritain Center both .·· state, "I know nothing whatsoever of s<!ience," and pretend to enlighten the .,..,....u4v issues? 
A. Edward Manier Professor 
Philosophy & Hiscory and Philosophy of Scitnce January 30. 1998 

Have an opinion? Share it. Viewpoint. I @nd.edu 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
• GUOTE Of THE DAY

• DooNESBURY 

~l 
I 
I I 



VIEWPOINT
Tuesday, February 3, 1998 page 9 
• All ABOUT You 

Of Osco and Valentine's Day 
Pay attention. This is a crash course in Valentine's Day gift giving. You probably have gone through your whole life believing flowers and candy were actually good gifts. But you were wrong. IIere is a list of the typical Valentine gifts and what they really mean to both the giver and the recipient. 
Obviously, the most traditional gift is a dozen roses. But this present has no meaning unless you are bravo enough to stray from red roses and buy something else, anything else, even a 
Bridget Rzezutko 
weed. but this rarely happens. This present takes no personal thought. It states, "I did what everyone else docs. I know you are allergic, but the flower shop on the corner was having a spe­cial. That's why they are all wilted." 
Another typical present are the chocolates in a heart-shaped box. Now, most people tend to think this is a great gift because you can give it to a man or woman. But really this is a great gift for no one. 
to hate you, or your significant other to break up with you, purchase this item. If your intent is to stay together, get in the car right now and head to a department store, Hallmark store or Disney store and buy an animal you know he or she would like (minus satin hearts). 
And of course we can't forget the gift of lin­gerie or boxers that usually are given with a speech something like, "I really like you for your mind but would not mind seeing you in this for a few minutes and then if you don't like it you can take it off." That's all that needs to be said on these particular items. You can figure out their purpose. 
Admittedly, Valentine's Day tends to be a little overrated. 
However, it is a time to remember your loved ones. You don't have to buy an expensive gift. (Although jewelry will never be turned down.) Just put a little thought into it and remember that taste is individualistic. 
If you can't think of what to get him, try to pick up on his subtle hints. Yes, roses are nice, but his roommates will make fun of him for the rest of the year. Maybe your boyfriend has secretly been wanting a gun rack to go on the back of his pickup. Or maybe he wanted an Elvis on velvet. Whatever it is, he has been wishing for it. Don't let him down. 
And guys, maybe your girlfriend would rather you suck it up and watch "Beaches" or "Steel Magnolias" with her just once instead of that oh so lovely lingerie you were planning on buying 

Their response will be, "Oh really, you shouldn't have!" And really, you shouldn't have. This present screams "I spent $2.99 on you at Osco!" If you want to give your significant other chocolate, at least get Godiva and not a Walgreen's imitation. Better yet, buy him or her the kind ol' candy he or she actually likes, even if it is just a bag of Sour Patch Kids. 
One thing to keep in mind-some people, I won't point at a gender-might infer this as a "So you think I am fat and eat a lot of candy?" present, and you really don't want to have that conversation, do you? So on second thought, steer clear of candy altogether. 
Another gift that is given is a stuffed animal, which for some reason is usually a member of the ape family, holding a satin heart that says either "I love you" or "Hot stuff." This is just bad. Very bad, actually. If you want your crush from that classy Frederick's of Hollywood. You don't ever have to admit you saw the movie, or that you actually cried. You can always tell your buddies you two watched a marathon ·Of "Jaws." No one will be the wiser. 
But whatever it is you end up doing, make it special. 
Bridget Rzezutko is a junior English major at Saint Mary's. She can be reached at Rzez1904@saintmarys. edu. Her column appears every other Tuesday. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
• SHADES OF GRAY 



Spirit of Inclusion Has Failed 
When Notre Dame released its "Spirit of Inclusion" state­ment last semester, it sparked a so-called dialogue on the issue of homosexuality. But the· University's treatment of this issue has been, at best, irresponsible. 
A respected faculty member has urged us to treat homo­sexuality as a disorder. "Experts" have been welcomed to discuss curing homosexuality and to discredit theories about its origins. Of his own views, the last of these experts admits, "This is speculation. There are no studies being done." 
Notre Dame, traditionally characterized by academic excellence, has become a venue for "speculation." In the last several months, our school's "spirit" has been one of alienation, not inclusion. 
By now we should know the notion that gay people are a hostile political party is false. What is true is that homosex­uals come from all walks of life-rich, poor, black, white, male, female, young, old, even Catholic. 
Gay people are entitled to respect by virtue of their humanity. To make "respect" contingent on whether homo­sexuality is "chosen" or not is insulting. Perhaps the day 


Isaac Ruiz 

will come when we'll love our neighbors as ourselves, regardless of the results of genetic testing. 
CHANGING FACE OF AIDS 
This weekend, the AIDS Memorial Quilt will come to the Stepan Center. Organizers hope the event will raise aware­ness of the disease and "personalize the issue." 
AIDS has an increasingly younger face. In the United States, two youths are infected with HIV every hour, and of those infected, 60 percent are black or Hispanic. 
And AIDS increasingly targets women. While the rate of infection among men is on the decline, the Center for Disease Control reported the HIV infection rate among women increased by 3 percent in the first half of 1996. 
Still, things are looking better for AIDS patients. Doctors have learned to use drugs in combinations to leave almost no trace of the virus in many patients. As a result, the num­ber of AIDS deaths decreased by 19 percent in 1996. 
But combination drug therapy is not a cure. Last August, the New England Journal of Medicine reported an increase in unsafe sex due to the mistaken belief that new drug treatments can prevent contracting the AIDS virus. John Bartlett, director of Duke University's adult infectious dis­ease clinic, says, "There are people out there having unsafe sex because they think they can be rescued by a three-drug therapy, and they won't be." 
To make matters worse, combination drug therapy carries an almost $15,000 per year price tag, making it inaccessible to those most at risk. Poor AIDS patients must find a way to pay for treatment despite recent cuts in Medicaid and the closure of tuberculosis and STD clinics in poor areas. 
Regardless of the demographics or potential treatments, the keys to stopping the epidemic remain the same -per­sonal responsibility and compassion. 
FULL CIRCLE 
The AIDS Memorial Quilt also serves as a reminder of just how far ignorance and hate will take us. Who can forget Pat Buchanan's judgment about AIDS: "Homosexuals have declared war on nature, and now nature is exacting an awful retribution." 
In those days, says creator of the AIDS quilt Clive Jones, "there was just terrible fear, misinformation, hateful preju­dice. People died quickly, often alone, abandoned by friends and families." This University's "Spirit of Inclusion" state­ment promised a meaningful discussion about different types of discrimination. Instead, our school has entertained a one-sided discussion about homosexuality. We can all agree that homophobia remains an obstacle to true dia­logue, at least with regard to AIDS safety and prevention. In matters of life and death, Notre Dame should close the doors of the Hesburgh Library auditorium to mere "specula­tion." 
Isaac Ruiz is a first-year law student. He can be reached at isaac.ruiz.13@nd.edu The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
-,. .' 

-~-~---~--~-~--~­
page 10 Tuesday, February 3, 1998


ACCENT 

• ACCENT ASKS ••• 

What are your best road-trip memories? 

"We were coming back to school from Dallas, when we stopped late at a truck stop. It had a carnival-like appearance and this kiddie ride that was a clown in the back seat of a car. When we walked by, the clown said, 'Hey, hey, hey, come ride Bozo,' and then giggled creepy. We thought it was on a sensor so we kept walking by it. It didn't say it again." 
Meghan McCurdy Freshman, Badin 
"We took an RV up to Michigan for the football game. It was a great time except one of our freshmen, C.J., broke a couple of the bath­room rules and then got sick." 
Jim Bergin Junior, Knott "We were going to an ultimate frisbee tournament in Chicago. It was early in the morning, and when we woke up the girl driving informed us that we had not only missed our exit, we missed our state; we were in Kenosha, Wisconsin." 


Caroline Pozorski Sophomore, Pasquerilla West "Two years ago coming back for second 
semester, my friend Julie Lasso gave me a 
ride back to school from Washington, D.C. 
It was 1 0 below zero and snowing hard. 
She insisted that all the windows be rolled 
down and that we listen to 'Fiddler on the 
Roof' on full volume the whole trip." 
Kevin O'Scannlain Law Student, St. Edward's 


"I was going down to the shore, Jersey, with my friends. We were at a pit stop and then some guys start­ed following us. We tried to get away, but they caught up and mooned us." 
Mary Beth Mclaughlin Freshman, Farley 
•
I 
s 
or r« 


By BRIDGET RZEZUTKO 
Accenr Writer 
Pack up your bags. 
We are going on a road-trip. I 
Destination: somewhere warm, sunny and fun. In other words, anywhere but S01, 
Spring is almost here, well, sort of anyway, and spring break is just around the 9 
The great thing about road-trips is the freedom to go anywhere you want. HavE come visit and play bingo with them? Or doesn't your cousin Fred want you to see Well, sure, all roads will surely lead to their houses, but in light of the South ll consider heading to a different school for the weekend. 
But wherever your intended destination may be, there are obvious necessities ar 
First of all, choose your roadside companions with care. Thelma and Louise m and Tommy Boy and Richard worked through their problems by the end of the t space, so make sure your partners in crime takes baths and brush their teeth. If her. This is no time to be polite. After a few hours of smelling the garlic he or she face anyway. You might as well have the pre-trip talk. 
Another important factor is you must pack well. Not too much, not too little. It use your head. If you are heading toward the beach, do you really need your sn bathing suit, sunscreen and that's it. Leave your beach pail at home. 
No road-trip can even be fathomed without a good supply of music. You have t< game get a little old, you can rely on your collection of Yanni to get the trip swingii will make do. 
Make sure you allot time for bathroom breaks. Not everyone hears nature's c~ Besides, so many gas station restrooms are kept spotlessly clean that it's a tough c When you see signs for the largest Indian trading post in the next three states, ' are definitely Kodak moments. Mom would want a picture of you next to the world Also, do remember your loved ones who were unable to make the road trip jou advertising for over 40 miles "the hugest outdoor flea market to have ever occ always wanted a raccoon cap? And your aunt, she would love a bottle of homerr could meet there. You could form lifelong bonds and be invited back every year fo1 Deciding whether to spend the night somewhere or drive straight through is a 1 buckle down at a Motel 6. But they will leave a light on for you if you do. However plenty of caffeine or candy for sugar buzzes, such as Mountain Dew and Pixie stid 
Someone should always stay up with the driver in order to keep him/her awak1 fer the crabby side effects of no sleep the next day, but they get to sit there, try tc dow into darkness. You can always bring along a tape recorder and tape your , from that are endless. 
Ahhh, finally your destination is in sight, and you can finally get out of that tin: son. And when the next person asks, "Are we there yet?" you can finally answer ~ 
If this is a spring break road-trip, we all know what the first plan usually is. n,, unpacking, and eating. People tend to OV!:Jreat on vacation because of all the nevi tend to have less money, they tend to forget to eat, or find nourishment elsewhel postcard starting with "Greetings from (fill in the blank)" or "Somebody I know wt One last thing. On every road trip, remember to keep an eye out for Elvis. This i: 
The Observer/Joe Slark 

-~~,~~----------------------~---------------------=----•-.-~ae~••----c----~---.----~--~~------~--~--------~--~a---WP,.~--~--~.-~ 
ACCENt
Tuesday, Febru~ry 3, 1998 page 11 





a t r i 
s 

, so it's time to hit that open road. 
t grandma and grandpa been wondering when you were going to newest editions to his stamp collection? police and bar busting this past weekend, you should probably 
a great team, although they had a slight problem with the law, 
ip. But not everyone is so lucky. A car can be a confined, cramped aren't sure about your companion's hygiene habits, ask him or at lunch, you will end up throwing an Oral B toothbrush in their • 
s hard to find the right balance of snowsuits and bathing suits, but kels. fins and water wings? No. You are big kids now. Pack your kill the time with something. So when "I Spy" and the license plate ng into full gear. That was just a suggestion; any artist of your choice 
ill at the same time, so this can become a hassle of the open road. all to figure out which one to choose. or the biggest doll ever crocheted by a human, you must stop. These 's biggest ball of twine. rney with you. When you pass through that little town that has been urred in Smith County," check it out. Hasn't your younger brother mde preserves. Plus you never know what kind of lovely people you · their annual Groundhog's Day hoe down. ough decision. With the anticipation of arrival, no one ever wants to 
if you do decide to keep driving, make sure your car is stocked with 
s. when it is late at night. This not only means two people have to suf­be quiet since everyone else will be sleeping, and stare out the win­ther friends while they are sawing logs. The blackmail possibilities 
car that was beginning to smell a little like sour milk for some rea­lmost" instead of "Does it look like it, you stupid idiot?" ember to perform the necessary tasks of checking into your hotel, 
restaurants in the area they just have to sample. Since college kids 
e. No matter how little money you have, remember to send a tacky t to (blank) and all I got was this lousy postcard." how he is usually spotted. Check Burger King. 
'••• These two lanes will take us anywhere ••• ' 
By MARY MARGARET NUSSBAUM 
Associate Accent Editor 

A few summers ago I worked in a gourmet deli. But it was more than a deli; it was a temple to cheese. Every possible stripe of cheese-Emmentaler, Brie, Gorgonzola, and Sage White Cheddar -was proudly dis­played for the pilgrims who came with a reli­gious fervor and keenly sharpened olfactory senses. They came looking for the perfect dry Parmesan with which to seduce their spinach linguine, for some European pizzazz in an all-too suburban existence. 
What these snooty, down-with-Velveeta patrons did not know was that the cheese castle where I worked was born of a very All­American romance. A decade earlier, Bob, the store's owner, founder and chief lover of cheese, had left behind the conventions of his desk job, mortgage and slow commute as the dean of admissions at the University of Wisconsin and taken to the road. Bob had been called. 
The smooth asphalt laced with thin white 
lines that curl around our fine land had beckoned him. So he left. I never really got the details of his sojourn while sharing a pastrami on rye, but this I know: Bob was on the road for a year. He marked up an old highway map with various asterisks and numbers showing the way to every cheese lover's paradise. I imagine him driving his VW bus slow­ly, patiently, his eyes reborn with every new sight. He crisscrossed all 50 states and proba­bly sang too many old Dead songs as the day eased into night and into another roadside campground. He had his fingers on the pulse of the cheese movement in America -the trends in import and export and the best way to arrange sidewalk cafe furniture. And the journey, in turn, quickened his pulse. 
Bob was called by something that is at the very heart of America. He was called by the 
open road, by the promises that are only fulfilled when the windows are down, the radio is 
blasting and the wind is louder still. Sure, he wanted a little adventure, a tousling of the 
hair and the freedom and stories that come from the road. He got all of this, a fine future ·in cheese, and that slippery salvation that only comes to true pilgrims. . 
On old road maps, the two-lane highways are blue. They are that in-between shade of 
blue, a little like a noonday sky, but also like lonesome sea. These paths are the best way 
to travel. They welcome speed and are perfect for meandering. The blue highways bypass 
McDonald's and take you to the finest (albeit slowest) feasts America has to offer. 
Over Christmas Break I broke bread with two dear friends at the Luna restaurant an 
hour north of Taos, N.M., on the fringe of the San Luis Valley. We had happened upon the 
haunt by chance (this is a rule all good road-trippers know: follow chance). We slid on 
down into the state and made our way to a hot springs on the top of a mesa where we 
soaked until we were thoroughly pruney and l~tughed until we were slap-happy-weepy. We 
remembered a road-trip taken not so very long ago. 
When we were 15 and without the sweetness of a permit, let alone the bold, big license 
that said the road was ours, we took our first trip. Convincing our parents that we were 
being escorted to an Indigo Girls concert by older (and presumably more mature) senior 
men, we hatched a plan. We borrowed the family suburban and, armed with a dozen bril­
liant mixtapes, and some cool-looking shades, we took to the road. We were, in our own 
adolescent way, summoned by the same spirits which called to Bob, and to Jack Kerouac, 
and to Bruce Springsteen, and to the pilgrims who traveled the Oregon Trail, and the 
hitchhikers and hobos whose home is not an address, but an idea. We were called to the 
road. We felt brave and alive, alive, alive and very glad to be children of the West, children 
of the open road. 
Road-tripping is a dance (a two-step in Texas, a hustle in the East), that Americans 
should know well and practice often. The road calls like a silver key to a juicy diary, like 
the first step of a deep, red wine. It pulls you in with the stories of the people you will met, 
all the various junctions of faces and places that make our geography. It calls to our need 
to run, to fly, and to the fierce urgency of this moment, these days. 
Springsteen explains it best in 'Thunder Road" when he sings, "All the redemption I can 
offer, girl! Is beneath this dirty hood/ With a chance to make it good somehow/ Hey what 
else can we do now?/ Except roll down the window/ And let the wind blow/ Back your hair/ 
Well the night's busting open! These two lanes will take us anywhere/ We got one last 
chance to make it real! To trade in these wings on some wheels! Climb in back/ Heaven's 
waiting down on the tracks." 
-. 
<4 _. 
-

page 12 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, February 3, 1998 
.. 
•NBA 

Collins joins land of unemployed 
Associated Press decide whether we were going ning seasons for the first time to improve as things go on, or in five years, including a 54-28 DETHOIT allow them to fester. We felt it record last season. But the 
Doug Collins was fond of say­was best to do something now Pistons were knocked out of ing, "If I'm the problem. I can and move forward." the playoffs in the first round be removed." On Monday, the The Detroit players also each year. Detroit Pistons gave him no reportedly had tired of Collins Collins, who starred for eight argumfml. and his intense approach. seasons with the Philadelphia 
They fired their coach after Some said they had begun to 76ers, began his NBA coaching he failed to get his learn above tune him out. Collins was career with the Chicago Bulls .500 this season and alienated aware of the problems, but he in 1986. But he wore out his many of his players with his was apparently unable to welcome there, too. overhearing style. change. After leading a young 
I le was replaced by assistant After his team has lost to Michael Jordan and the Bulls Alvin Gentry, whose first game lowly Vancouver for the sec­into the playoffs three straight was Monday night at ond time, Collins said: "We're seasons, Collins was replaced Washington. shooting 42 percent. Don't we by Phil Jackson. 
"That pushes you to attain have to make some shots? I'll "I know there wasn't too that level." Pistons president take the heat. Put the gun to much happening from Doug's Tom Wilson said Monday from my head, and shoot." perspective or from the rap­the team hotel in Washington. There had been reports that port he's had with his play­
,.. "It worked for a long time, and Collins angered Davidson and ers," Jordan said Monday from at some point it becomes more Wilson when he renegotiated Denver, where the Bulls were difficult to do, and we felt it his contract over the summer. to play the Nuggets. "I am sure was getting to that point." llis contract was reduced from there were a lot of people This is Gentry's second stint three years to one, with Collins expecting a move like that, if it as an interim coach. lie led the getting all the money up front. happened. It catches me by Miami Ileal to a 15-21 record Still, Wilson said, it was a surprise." after taking over for Kevin "very difficult" call. This is the first time the Loughery in February 1995. "We had great success our Pistons have fired a coach dur­The Pistons said Collins was first two years and probably ing the season since Dick informed of his dismissal by overachieved, based on what Vitale was removed 12 games team owner William Davidson our goals were," he svid. into the 1979-80 season. on Sunday night. Hick Sund Collins, who took the Pistons Vitale, after a 4-8 start, was was given Collins' job of direc­to 100 wins in his first two replaced by Hichie Adubato, tor of basketball operations. seasons. learned of his who went 12-58 the rest of the Detroit's 21-24 start can be removal while in Washington. way. attributed to a number of fac­He reportedly left for the office Scotty Hobertson coached the tors: New players have· been of his agent, Tom Langel, in Pistons the next three seasons slow to mPsh: injuries have Philadelphia. until Chuck Daly was hired to weakened the lineup; and I le is the second NBA coach start the 1983-84 season. Daly Grant Hill has been unable to to be fired this season, follow­lasted nine seasons and won carry the team down the ing Jim Cleamons in Dallas. two NBA championships. Hon stretch in tight games. Collins was hired as coach in Rothstein, Chaney and Collins "This year we've struggled April 1995, after the Pistons followed since Daly stepped and had some chemistry prob­went 28-54 under Don Chaney. down after the 1991-92 cam­lems," Wilson said. "We had to He produced consecutive win-paign. 

Bird among eight nominated for Hall of Fame 
Associated Press time nominees among the play­in NBA history; and Sidney Magic Johnson, whose eligibility dented levels of popularity and ers, but the only one who made Moncrief, the guard credited was pushed back when he made nwenues. Bird, in his first year SPRINGFIELD, Mass. it in his first year of eligibility, with making the Milwaukee a comeback and retired after as coach of the Indiana Pacers, 
There was little doubt Larry five years after retirement. Bucks one of the best NBA the 1995-96 season. The two will coach the East team in the Bird would be in the Basketball Other first-time nominees teams of the '80s. are credited with helping vault NBA All-Star game. Hall of Fame as soon as he was were former college and NBA The coaches nominated were basketball into one of the The nominees, selected by a eiigible. stars Adrian Dantley and Chet Alex Hannum, one of two world's most popular sports. screening committee, will need 
The first step was taken Walker and Marques Haynes, coaches to win titles in both the Bird's 1978-79 Indiana State at least 18 votes from the 24­Monday when Bird, who retired who entertained millions as the ABA and NBA, John Thompson, team went 33-1, the lone loss to member I lonors Committee for after the 1991-92 season. was ballhandling wizard of the who has led Georgetown to one Johnson and Michigan State in election. Further nominees will among eight players and three Harlem Globetrotters. national championship and the national championship be forthcoming in the women's, coaches to be nominated for Nominated again as players three Final Fours, and Tex game, still one of the most veterans and international cate­possible enshrinement. were: Larry Costello, an NBA Winter, an assistant coach with watched college games ever. gories. 
Bird, the former national col­all-star in half of his 12 seasons; ·the Chicago Bulls for their five Bird led the Boston Celtics to The newest class for lege player of the year at Artis Gilmore, one of the stars NBA titles and a long-time col-three NBA titles (1981, 1984, enshrinement will be Indiana State. a three-time NBA who played in both the ABA and lege coach. 1986) and their rivalry with announced June 29, with the MVP and a member of the NBA; Gus Johnson, considered It's almost impossible to say Johnson's Lakers dominated the induction ceremonies to be held league's 50th anniversary all­one of the best power forwards Bird's name without mentioning league and lifted it to unprece-in· October. time team. was one of four first-

The Observer accepts classilleds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from \2 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
sifieds is 3p.m. All classilleds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Classifieds 

- NOTICES :>­THE COPY SHOP -LaFortune Student Center WE'RE OPEN EARLY. LATE, AND WEEKENDS!!! Mon-Thur 7:30am -Midnight Fri 7:30am -7:00pm Sat Noon -6:00pm Sun Noon -Midnight CALL 631-COPY HEY!I It's not to early to place a VALENTINE in the classified ads tor your sweetie and/or a friend! ILOST & FOUND I LOST: a blue Iindy ring. very spe­cial. if found. PLEASE call x1551 LOST: GOLD DOLPHIN BRACELET if found plese call X 0849 WANTED ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT · Fishing industry. Excellent earn­ings & benefits potential. Male/Female. No experience nee­essary. Ask us how! 517-324-3116 ext. A55841  Floor Hockey and Soccer Officials Needed Great Pay II If you are interested please contact John in Rec Sports at 1-6100. FOR RENT 4 or 5 bedrm furnished house, w/d. sand volleyball, 119 N. St. Peter, 233-9947 VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5 MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK. 243-0658. ALL SIZE HOMES CLOSE TO CAMPUS 232-2595 MALE LOOKING FOR MALE TO SHARE 2-BDRM HOME. INC. WASHER/DRYER. PHONE, SATELITE TV. 219-289-1357. NICE 3-4 BEDROOM HOME FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR GOOD AREA NORTH OF ND 2773097 Available in Aug. 3-4 Bedroom 2 Baths Washer/Dryer, Furnished Attached Garage 683-6591  POTATO HOUSE 8 BEDROOM FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 98'-99' yr. 6 bedrm. 2-car gar. sand V-ball ct. washer/dryer. 1628 Portage Av. 234-3831 273-0482 Available in Aug. 3-4 Bedroom 2 Baths Washer/Dryer, Furnished Attached Garage 683-6591 FOR SALE Beautiful Brass bed. queen size, with orthopedic Mattress set and frame. New, never used, still in plastic. $225 219-862-2082 DESKTOP INTEL 486, 66DX, 8 MB, 5 MB HARD DRIVE, 3.5 INCH FLOPPY, ClJ 4-SPEED, 14.4 MODEM, AOL. PHONE:631-9341 TICKETS WANTED-ND vs MIAMI B-Ball tix on 2/22. Lower arena. 258-1111 Will trade 2 Sat. "Mid. Sum. Night's Dream" for 2 Fri. fix. Call Mike @4328.  4 tickets for sale Beauty & the Beast in Chicago Sat, Feb. 7 -$70 each call 243-9025 WANTED: 2 Allen Jackson tickets 247-0737 PERSONAL ADOPTION IS LOVE Happily married ND Alumni couple, with adopted 3 year old daughter, wants to shower new baby with love. Artistic full-time mom, athletic lawyer dad, and a sister to play with. Friends on the swingset, trips to the zoo, grandma, play groups, lullabies, too. This is a home where wishes come true. We'd like to get to know you. Call Shawn & Meg 800-767-4257. Legal/Medical/Allowable exp. paid. Debit May the Sacred Heart of Jesus be adored, glorified loved and pre­served throughout the world now and forever. Sacred Heart of Jesus have mercy on us. St. Jude worker of miracles pray for us. St. Jude helper of the hopeless pray for us. Nikole is a rogue, from you know who.  andrea jordan cannot speak. yay! I just kidding. we love you champ. Mel, we hope you get your well filled. -Champ and the Wine-0 heather cole-­check the lost and found today. it's late but's it's in there! when are we gonna do dinner? -coli don antonio­at long last! we shall finally be together. and what an appropriate day, my love. I am counting the days ... -colleen To the ladies of the love shack. you are cootessa ... and Leanne too anil now she is sitting here and watching me, i;m so nervous, what am I going to write!! I can't handle the stress!!!!!! todavia quiero taco bell. nature's first green is gold it's hardest hue to hold .... as dawn goes to day nothing gold can stay  two tor me, none for you. twix rock. the don has done it, and no better opportunity could have presented itself .... now it is time to find a sweat lady to melt "the ice man of notre dame'"s heart. will she make the trip to the bend? i've been thinking about you, so how can you sleep these people arn't your frineds they're paid to kiss your feet they don't know who you are and why should I care when i'm not there? eat your heart out, fred. NOODLE, You don't have to be a lion to be gorgeous; you just have to be YOU! Happy 22nd from me and Stallone. Love, Mern Considering you only read the paper for classifieds, news about busted bars you never go to, and recruiting, then this will get you through 30 seconds of class tops re·ad slow ... that is if you even could find one of these in your trek thru DeBartolo  

--~~----~~~---------~---·--~-----~-----------~....._,
--~--~ ---­
Tuesday, February 3, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 13 

• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Duke holds on to top spot 
Associated Press Michigan State, Mississippi, Michigan, Syracuse and Cincinnati. NEW YORK The last five teams were Xavier, Duke and North Carolina held the top George Washington, Massachusetts, TEAM RECORD POINTS PREVIOUS two spots in The Associated Press' col­Iowa and Maryland. 
1. Duke (54} 20-1 1734 1
lege basketball poll Monday, setting up Both George Washington and a No. 1 vs. No. 2 matchup this week. Massachusetts made their first appear­2. No Carolina (16) 22-1 1693 2 The Blue Devils (20-1), who stayed in ance in the rankings this season, 
3.Kansas 24-3 1571 5
the No. 1 spot for the third straight replacing fellow Atlantic 10 member week, will play at North Carolina (22-1) Rhode Island, and Indiana. 4. Arizona 19-3 1569 6 on Thursday night in the 14th meeting George Washington (18-3) entered 
5. Utah 18-1 1397 3
of the poll's top two teams since 1980. the Top 25 having won its last five The last 1-2 matchup was Kentucky's games and 13 of 14, the only loss by 31 6. UCLA 17-3 1327 8 win over No. 1 Massachusetts in the points at Massachusetts. 
7. Connecticut 19-3 1257 9
1996 Final Four. The last regular-sea­The Minutemen (16-5) have won 10 son matchup was between Duke and straight games, including a 17-point 8. Kentucky 19-3 1241 7 North Carolina on Feb. 3, 1994, an 89-win at Rhode Island last week. 
9. Stanford 18-2 1190 4 
78 victory for the second-ranked Tar Both Massachusetts and George 
10. Purdue 19-4 1184 10
Heels. Washington were ranked in the presea­Duke received 54 first-place votes son poll and for the first two weeks of 11. Princeton 16-1 1051 11 and 1, 734 points from the national last season. 
12. New Mexico 16-3 938 14
media panel, 41 more than North Rhode Island (14-5), which had been Carolina. which was No. 1 on 16 bal­ranked 21st, had lost three of four 13. So Carolina 16-3 929 13 lots. before beating Fordham on Sunday. 
14. Arkansas 18-3 868 15
The end of Stanford and Utah's per­The Rams, who were 21st in the pre­feet seasons last week caused a shake­season poll, had been ranked for all 15. West Virginia 18-3 647 17 up in the rest of the Top Ten. but three weeks this season, reaching 
16. Michigan St 15-4 597 22 
Kansas moved up two places to third, as high as No. 20. the same jump Arizona made to fourth. Indiana (15-6) returned to the rank­17. Mississippi 14-4 549 12 Utah. which had won its first 18 ings last week at No. 25 and fell out 
18. Michigan 16-6 525 19 
games until losing at New Mexico on after splitting games last week with Sunday, dropped from third to fifth. Michigan State and Minnesota. 19. Syracuse 17-4 504 20 Both UCLA and Connecticut moved up The week's biggest jump was 20. Cincinnati 16-4 476 18 two places to sixth and seventh, while Michigan State's rise from 22nd to No. 
21. Xavier 14-5 237 24
Kentucky, which lost at home to 16. The Spartans were ranked for the Florida on Sunday, dropped one spot to first time this season last week and fol­22. G Washington 18-3 220 eighth. lowed it with wins over Indiana and 
23. Massachusetts 16-5 217
Stanford, which started the season Northwestern to stay in first place in 18-0. lost home games to Arizona and the Big Ten. 24. Iowa 15-6 193 16 Arizona Statfl last week. and fell from Both Stanford and Mississippi fell five 
25. Maryland 13-7 142 23
fourth to ninth. Purdue again rounded spots but the biggest drop was Iowa's out the Top Ten. fall from No. 16 to 24th. The Hawkeyes Others receiving votes: Texas Christian 122, For the third straight week, (15-6} were lOth just two weeks ago, 
Rhode Island 117, Indiana 98, Ball St 26, Florida 
Princeton led the Second Ten and was but have lost four straight, including 
St 24, Illinois 19, Ill-Chicago 11, St Louis 10,
followed by New Mexico, South games last week to Penn State and Carolina. Arkansas, West Virginia, Michigan. Washington 10, Oklahoma 9, Hawaii 8, 
Tennessee 8, Clemson 5, Coli of Charleston 4,
Help save the earth. Recycle. Colorado St 4. 

is now accepting applications for the 
1997-98 General Board 
Any full-time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. Please submit a three-page statement ofintent with a resume to Heather Cocks by Monday, Feb. 9, at 5 p.m. For questions about the application process or for more information about any position, call The Observer at 631-4542. 
NEWS EDITOR Applicants should have news reporting, writing and editing skills. The News Editor man­ages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story and series ideas and is responsible for the content of the news section each day. 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR Applicants should have editorial, writing and editing skills and an ability to deal with the public. The Viewpoint Editor manages a staff of copy and layout editors and columnists and decides what letters will run each day. 
SPORTS EDITOR Applicants should have sports reporting, writing and editing skills. The Sports Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and special sections, arranges travel accommodations for reporting trips and is responsible for the content of the sports section each day. 
ACCENT EDITOR Applicants should have features writing and editing experience. The Accent Editor man­ages editors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas, and is responsible for the content of the Accent pages each day. 
PHOTO EDITOR Applicants should have photography and developing experience. The Photo Editor man­ages a staff of photographers and lab technicians and must work closely with News, Sports and Accent department editors in assigning photographs. 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR Any full-time undergraduate student at Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. The editor manages Saint Mary's department heads, coordinates coverage with Notre Dame staff, generates story ideas on the Saint Mary's campus and is responsible for the Observer office at Saint Mary'~:..__ __ .. 
ADVERTISING MANAGER Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The Advertising Manager oversees an assistant and a staff of account executives and is responsible for gen­erating advertising revenue. 
AD DESIGN MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of QuarkX.press, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager oversees a staff of designers, works closely with advertising and marketing departments and is responsible for the design and layout ofadvertisements. 
PRODUCTION MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience, knowledge of QuarkX.press and design, layout and newspaper production experience. The Production Manager over­sees a staff of night production designers and works closely with department staff on lay­out and design. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge of computer networking. The Systems Manager maintains and updates the Macintosh network and printers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the use of the system. 
CONTROLLER Applicant must be a junior accounting major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. The Controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operating budget and taxes, accounts payable, cost-tracking and other transaction duties. 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR Applicant must be familiar with building and maintaining a World Wide Web site. The Web Administrator is responsible for working with the editorial departments of The Observer in order to update and archive the content of the site each day. The Web Administrator also must be able to expand the capabilities of the site. 
-

Tuesday, February 3, 1998 
KAT Photo 

The Green Bay Packers organization insists that speculation concerning coach Mike Holmgren's future did not affect the team's performance in the Super Bowl. 
Holmgren's future still uncertain 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE 
Bob Harlan, president of the Green Bay Packers, says talk of eoaeh Mike Holmgren's possible departure didn't affect the team's preparation or play at the Supnr Bowl. 
lie wasn't prepared to say if Holmgren's future won't harm the Packers' fortunes in free agency, however. 
"That's really a question for Hon Wolf to answer," Harlan said Monday. 
Wolf. the Packers' general manager, wasn't available for comment. lie left Monday for the scouting combine in Indianapolis, where Holmgnm is expected to join him later in the week. Harlan said Holmgren, who was rumored last week to be a candidate for both coach and general manager in Seattle, will be back in Green Bay in 1998, but there are no guaran­tPes after that. 
"Mike's got two years left on 

-
~OBSERVER 
liiiMGIAMIJMMM\illliiti\iliil4iWIII!IIINIM\11Mlri&iQQ 
is now accepting applications for: 
Managing Editor 
Applicants should have strong editorial and journalistic skills and be comfortable in a managemenr position. A basic understanding of newspaper production and experience with the Macintosh system is helpful. Any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College student is encouraged to apply. 
Business Manager 
Any sophomore or junior business major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's interested in valuable work experience is encour­aged to apply. Applicants should have strong interpersonal and organizational skills and a basic understanding of accounting prin­ciples. 
Applicants should submit a rhuml andfiv~-page statement to 
H~atha Cocks by 5 p.m., Tumlay, February 3, 1998. For additional infor­mation about th~ position, contact Business Manager Tom Roland at 63I­5313, Managing Editors Jamie H~isla and Dan Cichalski at 631-4541 or tditor-in-ChiefBrad Prendergast at 63I-4542. Applicants are also encour­aged to stop by the office at 314 LaFortune with any questions. 
his contract. If the opportunity comes to run his own program, he'd like to talk about that. That's really why he's not extending his contract here," Harlan said in an interview from Green Bay. "We'll see what hap­pens in the future." 
Free agency begins next week and players might be less inclined to sign with Green Bay knowing Holmgren could be leaving soon. Whatever their effect on the future, Harlan said he didn't think the rumors sur­rounding the Seahawks' interest in Holmgren had a detrimental effect on the Packers at the Super Bowl, where they were stunned 31-24 by the Denver Broncos. 
"Mike told me he got tired of answering the questions, but I don't think it hurt the team," Harlan said. 
The Seahawks never sought permission from Harlan to speak with Holmgren, and on Friday, Seahawks president Bob Whitsitt said "it was never there," when asked about the team's interest in Holmgren. 

That puzzled Holmgren, who is 73-36 in six seasons in Green Bay. His agent, Bob LaMonte, said Holmgren was miffed because Packers officials had told him that the Seahawks would call him last week. The Packers are annoyed over the entire affair. 
''I'd like to know where the rumors started about Mike," Harlan said. "They were dragged out before the Super Bowl and nobody had any source for them." 
Grief Workshop: Loss and It's Possibilities Working through the Pain 
LOCATION: ALUMNI OFFICE, BROWNSON HALL (Behind Main Building-Through Courtyard) DATES: FEBRUARY 10-11, 1998 
ff Tues., February 10: 6:00p.m.-9:00p.m. Telling Our Stories ~* Wed., February 11: 6:00p.m.-9:00p.m. Going throu~h the Maze 
THIS WORKSHOP WILL ADDRESS THE PARTICULAR CONCERNS OF THOSE SUFFERING THE LOSS OF A LOVED ONE AND THOSE WORKING THROUGH THE DIVORCE OF THEIR PARENTS. 
"Summer had ended but without my mother. 
I worked up a lillie excitement for my first 
year at Notre Dame-but her death was too 
recent. 1 cried in my pi/law and then my 
roommate lost patience with me. I began 
medicating with alcohol. It was disastrous. 
In February, 1 made the GRIEF WORKSHOP, found other Domers who were hurting, and the healing began " 
Jan, N.D. '95 

For further infonnation, or to let us know you are attending, call: Mirella Contreras '94 a.t 631-5940 or Scott Leaman '98 at 634-1942 
Facilitator: Pat Reynolds is a Saint Mary's graduate, who taught Theology, then married Bill Reynolds, raised six children, and served as a clinical hospital chaplain. Following Bill's death in 1984, Pat's own grieving experience eventually led her to establish the University's loss program. With a Master's ofScience degree in counselling, Pat now practices in Vera Beach, Florida where she keeps busy redoing houses, counselling, teaching, and enhancing her education in such areas as mediation. 
Thank you to Paul Pendergast for helping to underwrite this conference. His support ofthis program is in remembrance ofhis wife Judy. 
AII Notre Dame and St. Mary's students are encouraged to a/lend. Sons and daughters offaculty and staffare also welcome. 
• SMC SWIMMING 




Belles break even over the weekend 
By VICTORIA BUTCKO 
Spores Writer 
The Saint Mary's swim team added a win and a loss to its record this Saturday as the team swam against DePauw and Centre. 
The team's loss came against DePauw, 157 -73, but the ladies proved that they wern still strong with a win against Centre, 104 -99. 
"The girls all swam very well." said Saint Mary's head coach Jini Cook. "We had some lifetime best times. The captains picked the line up going into the match, and,the girls just had a lot of fun because there was no pressure. 
"We're all really excited about the conference meet coming up in two weeks, and on the same note, somewhat glad to start winding down for the end of the season." 
The 200-medley-relay team of junior Tara Thomas, sopho­more co-captain Michelle Samreta, senior co-captain Allison Smith, and senior Ann Yanda beat both DePauw and Centre with its best time yet this season. 
Other highlights include Tara Thomas' domination in the 50 

CELEBRATE A FRIEND'S BIRTHDAY WITH AN OBSERVER AD. · 

freestyle against both oppo­nents, and a first and second place win captured by Samreta and freshman Olivia Smith in the 200-individual. First and second place wins were also captured by freshman Wendy Neumann and freshman Olivia Smith in the 1 DO-breaststroke against both DePauw and Centrn. Thomas also took first in the 100-fnwstyln against Centre and seeond against DePauw. 
Sophomore eo-eaptain Michelle Samreta had a very positive outlook on tho team's performance and for upcoming matches as w1~ll. 
"Both teams wern prntty good, but we swam well," said Samreta. "We're pretty broken down and tired. but I think we'rn still doing a good job. We're going to train hard for our upcoming conference meet, and we plan on finishing out the season really well." 
"Considering that we swam all events, we did very well overall," said teammate Olivia Smith. 
The Belles look ahead to thnir upcoming conference meet with a big final at !lope College, the second week in February. 

Tuesday, February 3, 1998 
The Observer • SPORTS 
• WOMEN's TENNIS 
First Loss 
continued from page 20
Netters kick off 
However, the Irish fell bank­rupt again in doubles after Danny Rothschild and Matt
season with style 
Daly lost 7-5 to Marc Silva and 
Doug Bohaboy. Sachire and By TIM CASEY Jennifer against an accom­Matt Horsley, coming off a Sports Writer plished veteran like Maggart," wrist injury, were the only Irish 
said Louderback. profitable in doubles. The two 
The women's tennis team No. 3 singles pitted two of the defeated Ryan Tarpley and started off its season in fine top freshmen in the Midwest -Derrick Nguyen easily, 8-0. fashion this past weekend with Notre Dame's Michelle Dasso "I don't feel we could have wins against Drake University and Purdue's Erika Quebe. played better," 6-foot-6 Sachire and Purdue University at the Dasso, who won the Rolex said of his doubles win. "We Drake Tennis Center in Iowa. Midwest regional earlier in the put the ball in their court. We 
On Friday, the Irish shut out year, continued her winning asked them to beat us, and they Drake, 7-0. The Irish lost only with a dominating 6-0. 6-1 vic­couldn't." 21 total games in all six singles tory over last year's Indiana However, in every other matches and swept the dou­high school girls champion. instance, the Irish were the bles. Three players who nor­Senior Tiffany Gates avenged team on the court without the mally do not play in the match­a three-set loss last year to answers. es looked especially strong. Shannon Taheny with a close The Wildcats captured four of Senior Darcie Sweet had a 7-6, 7-5 win at No. 4 singles. the singles victories, including decisive 6-2. 6-2 victory over At No. 5 singles, sophomore the top three positions. Drake's Aleksa Huns, while Kelly Zalinski scored a 6-0, 6-3 Sachire, playing at the No. 1 fn1shman Kim Guy and junior victory, and senior captain spot, lost his first match of the Courtney Haskell pulled out a Kelly Olson won at No. 6, 7-5, season to Northwestern's Witt,. 8-6 victory at third doubles. 6-4. 6-4, 6-4. Although Sachire 
"Darcie, Courtney, and Kim "We have a strong singles defeated his rival last season in played very well," said coach lineup but our doubles have straight sets, the Northwestern Jay Louderback. "We have a always been a little weaker," powerhouse approached the deep singles lineup. and it's said Louderback. "This year, net with verve to break down nice to know that we can count however, our doubles seem to Sachire's game. on contributions from every­be better than usual. In the "He played really solid and nne." fall, we played some tough put the pressure on," Sachire 
Saturday's match was a little matches which helped us build said. "I really wanted to beat more challenging, but the Irish some valuable experience. him. I didn't expect him to take continued their hot streak from "The doubles are going to be me out of the game like that." The Observer/Kevin Dalum 
The Irish return to action on Feb. 11 when they host Kentucky at the
the previous day. Purdue was the key to a successful season, Actually, nobody did, not 
Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
ranked fifth in the Midwest and judging by this weekend's even his coach. region going into the match. performance, we should be in "I was surprised," Bayliss Patterson and Eric Enloe also blemished at 3-1. 
.Junior Jennifer Hall scored good shape." said. "He was really pumped showed signs of wrinkling in "Sometimes it's hard to neu­an impressive 6-2, 6-1 win Dasso and Hall travel to the up, but I think he needed to their matches. Patterson folded tralize all of that power," over Purdue's Mary Beth Rolex national indoors this play with more perspective and against Bohaboy, 2-6, 6-1, 3-6, Bayliss said of the victors. Maggart at first singles. week to compete with the best poise." while Enloe suffered a close 6-"They dictated the play." Maggart played in the NCAA 32 women's players in the Although Pietrowski has 7, 3-6 loss to Northwestern's However rattling the loss, the singles tournament last year country. The women return to improved since last week, com­Tarpley. Irish managed to walk away and was named the Big Ten action on Feb. 13-15 to take on posure was also missing in his The only bright spots of the with their confidence unshak­Sportswoman of the Year for Ohio State, Tennessee, and singles competition. With fore­afternoon were owed to en. 1996-97. Boston College at the Eck hand and volley problems, the Rothschild's solid 6-2, 6-3 "It's a very long season," 
"That was a great win for Tennis Pavilion. senior lost a hard fought match stomping of Bengtsson and Pietrowski said. "We'll keep on to Silva, 7-6, 6-3. Andy Warford's 6-1, 6-4 crush-improving, and we'll be fine. "I played pretty well," ing of Brad Erickson. Now is not the time to panic."
An era will soon end in The 
Pietrowski said. "I certainly Unfortunately for the Irish, By Feb. 11, the Irish hope to wasn't sulking, but there are the wins were inconsequential be cool and collected for their
Observer Sports Department 
some things I need to iron out." as the Notre Dame's record was home match against Kentucky. 
~ [ ~ 
1998 

,-...-............Wo'N;y·~:~T oNfric:·.... ·-·-··-·1 
------IMEN'S SWIMMING AND DIVINGN! IN CREATING 5PORTS1/2PAGE, NIKE MAKES EVERY 
I VS. C:.T. BONAVENTURE l EFFORT TO BE ACCURATE. WE REGRET ANY ERRORS. 
I ROLF'S AOUATIC CENTER, 11:00 AM . IF YOUR TEAM WASN'T COVERED, LET YOUR NIKE INDOOR TRAcKN sTuDENT REP <Now AND wE'll TRY NExT ISsuE. AT TRACK MEYO INV. 
--®---o---~---o---o-----e--­
8 WOMEN'S TENNISN  2 9  3 WOMEN'S BASKETBAu/V AT MIAMI 7:00PM 10 WOMEN'S TENNISN  4 WON'T FIT ON 6TH... ICE HOCKEYN VS. BOWLING GREEN JACC, 7:00PM INDOOR TRAcKN AT TRACK MEYO INV. 11 MEN'S TENNISN  5 WOMEN'S TENNISN AT ROLEX NATIONAL INDOOR ALL DAY MEN'S TENNISN AT ROLEX NATIONAL DALLAS, TX MEN'S BASKETBALLJV --~~~~T~~~~ZJ2!~--­12 WOMEN'S  6 WOMEN'S TENNISN AT ROLEX NATIONAL INDOOR DALLAS, TX MEN'S TENNISN AT ROLEX NATIONAL DALLAS, TX ---------~ 13 MIW TENNISN  MEN'S & WOMEN'S MEN'S BASKETBALLJV' 7 TENNISN AT GEORGETOWN AT ROLEX NATIONAL INDOOR 2:00PM DALLAS, TX FENCINGN ICE HOCKEYN vs. CLEVELAND STATE, VS. FERRIS STATE NORTHWESTERN, OHIO STATE JACC, 7:00PM JACC, ALL DAY 14 WOMEN'S TENNISN M/SWIM & DIVINGN  n 0 II n 0 ... CD n ... CD Ill... 0 :I Ill  ......  
AT ROLEX NATIONAL INDOOR  AT UNLV  VS. KENTUCKY  8ASKETBALLJV  VS. OHIO STATE  VS. TENNESSEE  vs. WISCONSIN-MilWAUKEE  ' 
ALL DAY MEN's TENNisN AT ROLEX NATIONAL ALL DAY ..  WON'T FIT ON 8TH ... FENCINGN VS. DETROIT, lAWRENCE,  1:30PM  3:30PM MEN'S BASKETBALLJV VS. BOSTON COLLEGE 7:30PM  VS. ST. JOHN'S JACC, 7:00PM WON'T FIT ON 13TH... INDOOR TRACKN  ECK TENNIS PAVILION M: 3:30PM W: 7:OO PM ICE HOCKEYN  ECK TENNIS PAVILION, 1:00 PM IcE HocKEYN AT WESTERN MICHIGAN, 7:00 PM MEN'S BASKETBALLJV  ROLF'S, 2:00 PM INDOOR TRACKN AT CENTRAL COLLEGIATE CHAMP., ANN ARBOR, Ml  < II <Ill  


15 
WOMEN'S TENNISN VS. BOSTON COLLEGE ECK TENNIS PAVILION 10:00 AM MEN'S TENNISN vs. MIAMI 
ECK TENNIS PAVILION • 1:00PM 
..1.... 
WON'T FIT ON 15TH... WoMEN's BASKETBALLJV VS. PITTSBURGH JACC, 2:00 PM MEN'S lACROSSEN VS. DENISON MOOSE KRAUSE FIELD 
...
MICHIGAN 

AT BuTLER INV. ;... ~ VS. OHIO STATE 
AT MIAMI, 7:30PM 2ND ANNUAL IRISH 
Ill
JACC, Au DAY 

....... _lt:J~I:',~~~CJ.l.l~,_l_~·-· .... JACC , 7:00 PM 
IRON CLASSIC 
... 



'< 
' 

DOING IT n 
II You wouldn't expect downhill skiing to be the most n popular sport on the prairies of northern Indiana. But, c 
D'"

coming off a second-place finish at Sioux St. Marie last month, the Women's Ski Club is gaining momen­
' 
-

tum. Led by sophomore standout Nikki Douillet and a II crop of superb freshmen, the team hopes to win their :I
...
division and compete in regionals. 
... 
Ill

The skiers work hard for their success. Forced to train on their 
3

own except for an annual holiday ski trip to Colorado, these dedicat­
c 

ed women spend most winter weekends competing away from cam­... 
Ill 

pus. Their intense dedication makes club president Jessica Irvine and captain Bridi Grant very optimistic for the future. 
-Jason Matthew Malartsik (Interview by Patrick C. Paquette) 

Hi, I'm Colleen Henshaw, your NIKE student rep. Sports1/2Page plugs you into upcoming sports and NIKE events at Notre Dame. Email me at colleen.henshaw@nike.com with events, athletes or teams you think deserve a mention. To talk to NIKE directly, use sports.halfpage@nike.com . 
Been doing anything adventurous? Climb any mountains? Set any race records? Got something spectacular and unique planned for Spring Break? If so, drop me a line. You might end up as the profile of the month! ... Come out for the Second Annual Irish Iron Classic on February 14th. You don't want to miss this! ... Hang on to those old shoesI ND will be recycling them in the next few months. Stay tuned to Sports1/2Page for details! 
THE GOAL OF THIS SPORTS112PAGE IS TO INFORM STUDENTS ABOUT SPORTS ON CAMPUS. NIKE DOES NOT SPONSOR ANY VARSilY. INTRAMURAL OR CLUB SPORTS ON THIS CAMPUS AND THIS PAGE DOES NOT IN ANY WAY IMPLY SUCH SPONSORSHIP. 

page 16 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, February 3, 1998 
• WOMEN's SWIMMING • MEN'S SWIMMING 

The Notre Dame women's swimming team fell for the first time this season to Michigan on Saturday. The loss came on the heels of a dominating victory over Bowling Green on Friday. 
Wolverines end Irish win streak 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's swimming and diving team experienced defeat for the first time this season. Following a dominating victory over 13owling Green on Friday. the 24th-ranked Irish traveled up to Michigan where they were outswam by a talented Wolverine team. 
At Bowling Green, the Irish broke out to an early lead before coasting to victory, 155­
88. The Irish took first in nine of the 13 events while improv­ing their dual-meet record to 7­0 on the year. Alison Newell was a double winner, swim­ming to victory in the 200 and 500 freestyle with times of 
1:54.70 and 5:07.21, respec­tively. 
"The meet gave us a chance to swim events that aren't nec­essarily our best," commented freshman Carrie Nixon, who swam the I00 butterfly instead of her usual sprint freestyle. 
After an easy win on Friday, the Irish traveled up to 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents 
,-; 


For further information, contact: Professor Michael Francis 1-5203 (Hurley I IO) 
A<·lors fron1 tllr London Stag·e AMidsummer Night.,s earn 
Michigan and put their unde­feated dual-meet record on the line when they went up against the fifth-ranked Wolverines ­a team that placed ahead of the Irish at the Rainbow and Notre Dame Invitationals. 
The Irish could only manage six victories in the 16-event meet and fell to the Wolverines, 166-124. Senior captain Linda Gallo once again made her presence known and provided leadership for the Irish as she raced to two first place finish­es. Gallo claimed the 1000 freestyle (1 0:04.67) and the 
500 free (4:57.01).  She also  
placed  second  in  the  200  
freestyle in 1:49.03.  

Rhiana Saunders, Notre Dame's most consistent diver, captured first in the one-meter competition with 243.98 points. Alison Newell's time of 
2:03.97 was good enough for first in the 200 butterfly, while the 400 freestyle relay team (Courtney South, Brenda Heilly, Kristen Van Saun and Newell) also placed first. 
"I don't think we're at Michigan's level yet," com­

mented Shannon Suddarth, a winner in the 400 individual medley. 
"I think we really didn't have a chance to win going into the first relay," added Nixon, whose best finish was second in the 50 freestyle. "However I think we could have swam them a lot closer." 
This weekend's split in the two away meets capped off the team's dual meet season. After finishing 7-1, the Irish will now spend the next two weeks training for the Big East cham­pionships where they will defend their title later this month at Pittsburgh. 

International Studies Summer Researeh Grants for Undergraduates 
Several grants are awarded each year by the Kellogg Institute for International Studies Up to $3,000 
FOR MORE INFORMATION, COME TO A MEETING ON 
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1998 
5:00 P.M. 

DEBARTOLO I 20 
Notre Dame takes care of business 
By ADAM ROYER 
Sports Writer 
The smell of chlorine is incred­ibly strong. It's so strong it hurts to breathe, so they breathe through their mouths. The swimmers take their blocks. 
And the Notre Dame men's swimming and diving team begins to dominate. 
Last Friday saw the Notre Dame men's swimming and div­ing team emasculating the University of Buffalo and Bowling Green University in Bowling Green, Ohio. The Irish finished ahead of Bowling Green by an extraordinary 119 points (180-61 ), winning every event. They faired equally well against Buffalo, defeating them 134-97. 
Scott Zumbach was in typical good form, performing superbly in the 200 individual medley 
(1:53:840) and butterfly (51:35), finishing first in each. Zumbach's sophomore team­mate Herb Huesman, who set a ND one-meter diving record last week, won both the one-meter 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Shorin~Ryu Karate-This semester-long course meets in Rockne Room 219 on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 6;:7:30 p.m., starting Jan. 29. You must register in advance at RecSports and the fee is $18. A demonstration will be held at 6:30p.m. on Tuesday, Jan. 27, in Rockne Room 219. Call 1-8237. 
Ballet-RecSports will be sponsoring Beginner and Advanced Ballet. Both classes are semester-long classes with a fee of $35. All classes will be held in Rockne Hm. 
and three-meter diving events, scoring an impressive 277.75 and 243.90 points, respeetively. 
Despite winning both diving events, Huesman thinks he can do better and wants to improve week-to-week, which could cause a lot of adjustments in the diving record books. 
The Irish dealt with Cleveland State on Saturday no more mer­cifully. The Notre Dame men's swimming and·diving team beat Cleveland State by a score of 143-94, marking the sixth straight win for the Irish since their narrow loss to TCU in November. 
Scott Zumbach again smoked his competition, winning both the 200 individual medley 
(1 :54:20) and the 200 butterfly (1 :52:84). In the 50 freestyle, freshman Bussell Preston cap­tured first with a time of 21.91, followed by Mike Doyle (21.93) and Vince Kuna (21.1)8). Hay Fitzpatrick took first in the 100 freestyle (47 .69). with Preston 
(47.78) and Hon Hoyer in ho1 pursuit. 
301. 

Jazz Dance-A Jazz Dance class will be offered Saturdays and Tuesdays from 12 p.m.­
1:30 p.m. (Sat.) and 8-9 p.m. (Tues.) in Rockne Rm. 301. 
Cross Country Ski Clinics-HecSports will be sponsoring three dinics this winter. The clinic will be offered on Saturday, Feb. 7 at 2 p.m. The fee for the clinic is $5 with an additional $4 rental fee if you need to rent skis. Hegistration in advance is required for all three cross­country ski clinics. 
The residency of Actors from the London Stage is sponsored by the Paul M. and Barbara Henkels Visiting Scholar Series. 

Tuesday, February 3, 1998 
The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles pummel Lady Pilots 

By JANICE WEIERS other team's coach was loud. Sporrs Writer And the team was ready to start off a new month the right The well is primed. The way. "This was the last time 
Saint Mary's basketball team's nine-game winning drought ended last night with a 86-63 win over Bethel College. 
The win was an important one, but not solely because of the recent losses. Bethel is a long-term rival of the Belles and this was the final time the seniors would play against the Lady Pilots. Coach David Hoeder said, "This game was about as important as D-Day, Gettysburg ... " 
The fans were loud. The 
January 31 -JJ:OO AM February 7-JO:OO AM February 7-2:00 PM 
we would play them. We had to get them, especially on home court," said senior Darcy Nikes. one of three seniors on the team. 
The win was well-deserved, but hard-earned. "We had a tough month [January]." said Nikes after the game. "Nine games. Seven of them were ranked teams. I don't know if people realize we have a tough schedule." 
The Belles were serious from the tip-off. Saint Mary's 
Deadline -January 29 Deadline-February 5 Deadline -February 5 


Clinic held at Notre Dame Golf Course Register in Advance at RecSports $5.00 Charge Wear layered Clothing and Warm Gloves 
Equipment Rental Available -$4.00 Charge 
k?~~ 

dominated the Door from the 
first shot by senior Brenda 
Hoban. The three-point field 
goal ignited the spirits of the 
Belles and the crowd, not to 
mention the leader of the 
pack. Hoeder said, "I think we 
came out with a lot of emo­
tion, made plays, concentrat­
ed, challenged them on 
defense ... and just kept 
knocking down the shots." 
The top scorers for the Belles were Hoban with 21, Nikes with 19 and Julie McGill with 16. Teri Totzke and Melinda Striegal led the Lady Pilots with 16 each. McGill also grabbed 10 boards in the effort. 
Roeder was very pleased overall with the performance of his players. "We're proud of how we played," he said. "Darcy is one of the best play­ers to ever play here," he said. "She and McGill both." 
Both teams wore blue and white, but it wasn't confusing as to which team had posses­sion. Nine chances out of 10, the Belles were in control. Leading 49-31 at halftime, the Belles had not lost any steam when they emerged from the locker room. 
The court continued to be slightly lopsided in action throughout the second half as well. The Belles scored 37 points in the second half to keep the lead and earn the victory. 
Saint Mary's will host Franklin College this Sunday at 2 p.m. Saint Mary's was the victorious team last year, but the match-up is expected to be a good one. 

L___________________ --------------------­

~------------------------------~-------------------------------------------­


Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents 

Biddy Wells will present  Peter lindford will present  
Beyond the Grave:  The Poetry of Philip Larkin:  
ASelection of Ghosts in Stories~  The Poems of a  
Poems, and Epitaphs  Very Private Man  
Tuesday, February 3  Wednesday, February 4  
4:30 p.m., Washington Hall  4:30 p.m., Washington Hall  
Free and open to the public  Free and open to the public  

The residency of Actors from the London Stage is sponsored by the Paul M. and Barbara Henkels Visiting Scholar Series. 
page 18 
Mia01i 
continued from page 20 
that I Big East Tournament) bye. 
On Saturday. the Irish got bark into the win column with a 91-35 thrashing of confer­nnee foe Seton llall. The 56­point margin of victory was the seeond-largest in the school history, just beating a 109-6C) rout of Providence one week earlier. 
Junior Sheila McMillen led three Irish players in double figures with a career-high 24 points. Freshman Ruth Riley finished with 14 points and six rebounds, while sophomore .Julie Henderson offered up a season-high 11 points off the bench. During a H)-minute span in the second half, Notre Dame went on a 26-0 run to pull even further away. The l'iratfls, whose two-game win­ning streak skidded to a halt with the loss, shot a dismal 
19.3 percent for the game and scored just 13 second half points. 
"We got running, and I think the transition game is where we scored most of our points," McGraw said about the game. "I think they were trying to key on Huth a little bit too; they were crowding around her somewhat." 
The two teams met earlier in the season at the Joyce Center on Jan. 8, with the Irish pre­vailing 75-47. In that contest, Hiley led the Irish with 19 points and 11 rebounds, setting up her first career double-dou­ble. Senior Mollie Peirick tied a Notre Dame school record as she hit six three-pointers, giv­ing her 18 points for the game. 
The Hurricanes were held to 30 percent shooting for the game, including a 8-for-25 stretch in the second half. The Irish went 47.3 percent from the field for the game. 
Lately, it has been the Notre Dame bench that has risen to the occasion. Against Seton llall, junior Diana Braendly scored nine points, including a key three-pointer in the first half, while senior Kari Hutchinson picked up a game­high seven rebounds. 
The Irish and Hurricanes are set to tip off tonight at 7 p.m. 

Tuesday, February 3, 1998 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum 
The competition will get tougher for Irish fencers when they take on top-ranked Penn State this weekend. 
with just two fencers." weekend's home tournament, Perhaps the strongest sqaud where the undefeated status
Victory 

on the team is the women's will be testnd against top­continued from page 20 epee, led by captain Anne ranked Pnnn State. Despite tlw lloos and Magda Krol. Both importance of facing the top­squad's third man. posted fine records, teaming ranked Penn State squad, the The women's foil team also for a 36-3 record, but as Irish will also go up against counted on its top two to turn coach Auriol commented, perrenial regional rivals in quality finishes. "You always expect them to go Cleveland State, "By far, Myriah Brown (16-undefeated." Northwestern, Ohio Statn. and 
0) and Sara Walsh (19-1) are The team now stands unde­Wayne State. our top fencers," said Auriol. feated, ranked third in the "We won't take any team for "But this squad needs more NCAA polls. granted, we'II fence intense all work. We cannot beat teams Next up for the Irish is this season," said Auriol. 
-
Notre Dame, led by guard Danielle Green, will have to maintain its level of defensive intensity tonight when it takes on Miami. 
---·-­
IB RuN 0 'S 
PIZZA NORT,H 
US 31 NORTH 273-3890 
Hours: Delivery 
'Tilll AM 
273-3890 
Sun-Thurs Lunch and 
'Till 2 AM Fri Regular Hours and Sat Lunch 11-2 
On Tuesdays and Thw-sdays A$12.00 Piz2a With Any Toppings For Only$7.00 



Tuesday, February 3, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 19 

MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

DILBERT 
IT'5 FUNNY -BEFORE YOUR 
COfV\PAN'Y C>OUGI-\T T\-\1\T CRITICAL SYSTEM FROM f"\£ I YOU HAD ALL THE 
POWER ... 
) 

~~~--~~~--~~~~~~~~n-~ 
:1 
0 0 
...i 
0 ®"' 
en 
:1 
"' 
..0 
,_
,_ 
0 
0 
en 
·~ 
w 
&2 Andes land &3 Sporty Toyota 64 Rudner of 
comedy 65 Protection: Var. && Diet guru Jenny &7 Hang onto &a Gusto &9 Refuges, 
old-style 
DOWN 
1 Roman emperor after Galba 2 Utah national park 3 Garfield's foil 4 Racing org. 5 Singer John 6 Honolulu-based detective 7 Survive a Noah's landfall 9 English diarist Samuel 10 Whiplash preventer 

DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
Aries: Expect to meet up with some competition today. You are 
FOR /HE LAsT liME, NO! 
NOW,OA/E 1'1oRc PEEPoul 
close to finishing what you have
OF AND I ShiEAR I'LL 
to do, and sharing may be a nicety
TURN ALL /vJ[LVE OF 
that does not concern you. Others
1HESE 1RIF3E 5 

are likely to cooperate if you 
explain yourself. 
Taurus: The Moon pays a visit to 
Taurus' house, bringing you spe­
cial gifts. Your natural charm and 
grace make you the center of 
attention today. It is almost too 
easy to command the respect you 
deserve. 
Gemini: Small frustrations slow 
MIKE PETERS 

you down just enough to make a 
difference. A minor delay spreads 
major ripples throughout your 
day. You may need to cut it a lit­tle closer to the deadline. 
Cancer: Be sure to include a few 
friends in today's plans. Organize 
a dinner party, or perhaps treat 
everyone to a good meal at a 
restaurant. Business and pleasure mix well at this time. 
Leo: Keep your tongue inside 
your head and your fists out of 
other people's personal space. 
This is not the day to lose your 
cool. Inappropriate responses are 
~01 ~owl ONL'f I CAN ?~OVID£. E55ENT'IA.\.. 
UPGAAOE.5!! I CALL 1\-\E. SHOTS, ~ou 


ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
not easily forgiven. 
SCOTT ADAMS 

Virgo: Your level of concentra­tion is exceptional today. Apply 
ur---------:=========~ 
~ ~ 
g 
~ ~ ~ 
i 
·;; :::> 

Wanted: Reporters 
48 Go back on a 56 Goddess of 
promise discord 49 Rose oils 57 Problem for Sneezy?
51 "If I Had a · 
and editors.
58 "Do as--, ..." 

Hammer" singer 
59 Buzz's moon mate 53 Pet protection 60 Eastern org. discipline 
Join The Observer 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 
staff. 

1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -AC:ROSS 
Libra: You hear or see evidence that leads you to believe someone is taking advantage of you. Your views on sharing may undergo a change today. Let others pull their own weight for awhile. Scorpio: Avoid conflict today. You could spend just as much effort forging an alliance as you could picking a fight. Cooperation and teamwork will be the engines that drive your success. Sagittarius: Avoid investment schemes and other shortcuts. T oday's temptations are more about the promise than the deliv­ery. Your usual course, if not the most glamorous, is still the best. Capricorn: Concentration and creativity are running strong today. You are most attractive to others, but you may be too busy to notice or care. This is a good time to let your feelings out in your chosen medium of expression. Aquarius: You tr)ay encounter probl~ms with family members or co-workers today. Try to respect the opinions of others no matter how bizarre they might seem. Third party interruptions are a welcome relief. Pisces: In the absence of a trans­lator, you are forced to learn a new means of communication. Language is the key to another culture or another way of think­ing. Poetry transcends boundaries today. 
The Observer 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
0 Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ 
Address _______________________________________ 
City _______________ State ____ Zip____________ 
.. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Kind of layer 
&Applaud 10 Locking device 14 Of neap and 
ebb 15 Overconfident racer of fable 16 Charles Lamb 
pseudonym 17 Raise 18 Quickly, quickly 19 Charitable 
donation 20 Start of a Daniel 
Webster quote 22 "Act now!" 23 New England's 
Cape-­24 Generally 2& Turn to cinders 29 Sentry's cry 
32 Prevent from acting 33 Chicken -­34 Syrup brand 35 Radical college org. 36 Middle of the quote 42 California's Fort 
43 Cover for a diamond 44 Theater sign 45 Eleve's place 48 Janet of Justice 49 Latin love so Whom Reagan beat in 1984 52 Tanner's tub 54 Tweed, for one 55 End of the quote &1 Related 


L ••••• metaphor
E 13 Scrapbook user a=+::::-F:-+::-i 21 "--me, villain!" HB"='f-=+-=+:::-< iliEEB-::-t-7+.=+::±:-i 25 Total ii~~~ 26 Navy noncom 27 Sweetie -7+7+.::-t.:::-1 281t's swung in forests =+=+=+::::-t:7i 30 "--longa, vita brevis" 31 Singer Lenya 

SE.NO IN A.i LEAST WE. i\1E. NtH DON'T \-\"'VE. El"\PLO'(E.£. ANY MULTI­
I 
VENDOR COMPAT­
lt;ILITY ISSUE.5. 


34 "M*A*S*H" setting 
35 Endeavored 
37 Sudden arrival of fall weather 
38 Author Fleming 
39 Belief 
40 Spanish gold 
41 Negative joiner 
45 Set sail 
46 Gingersnap, · 
e.g. 47 Kind of inspection 

your skills to the unpleasant tasks first. Once you have all the old business out of the way, the things you enjoy doing will be even bet­ter. 
.. SPORTS 
page 20 Tuesday, February 3, 1998 
•

• 
.. 
... 

The Observer/Kevin Dalum Both the men's and women's fencing teams remained undefeated this past weekend with convincing wins against Boston College, NYU, Duke, MIT, and North Carolina. 
Tennis at Rolex National, 
aJ •SMC basketball takes easy win
February 5 
'C

Track and Field, see page 17 Meyo Invitational, February 6 CIJ • Pistons fire Collins 

By ANTHONY BIANCO 
Sports Writer 
llaving already faced and defeated many of the toughest teams the NCAA has to offer this season, the Notre Dame fencing team faced more of the same last Sunday when it traveled to Massachusetts. 
The team continued its domination of the competition this past weekend with dual meet wins against Boston College, NYU, Duke, MIT, and North Carolina. The wins against the ~~~ague's weaker competition gives the men's and women's teams undefeated records of 16-0 and 15-0, respectively. 
The men's sabre squad has domi­nated all season. and this tournament was no exception. Led by captain Luke LaValle with a perfect 12-0 mark, the squad posted a collective 36-9 record. 
Adding to the squad's success was the play of Andrzej Bednarski and Steve McQuade. 
• 
WOMEN's BASKETBAll 


Tonight at Miami, guard Sheila McMillen and the Irish hope to build on Saturday's 99-43 rout of Seton Hall. 
Irish try to keep momentum 
Hurricanes present next challenge 
By BILL HART Sports Writer 
The Fighting Irish women's basketball team hopes to keep its momentum on the road as it travels to the warmer climate of Florida to face off against Miami in a Big East conference showdown. 
The Hurricanes went 1-1 on the week. moving their record to 7-4 in the Btg East and 12-7 overall. On Wednesday, Miami unable to overcome a 33-22 halftime deficit and a 4R-31 HU second-half lead. 
suffered  a  77-65  loss  at  
Rutgers.  Against the Scarlet  
Knights,  the  'Canes  were  

Junior Kyrn Hope and senior Octavia Blue combined for 31 points in that game, while sophomore Shannon Drury added 14 points. On Saturday, Miami rebounded with an 81­74 win at Georgetown. Against the Iloyas, UM shot .615 (16­
26) from the field in the second half to post the come-from­behind win. 
Hope scored 27 points and grabbed a game-high 13 rebounds for her league-lead­ing eighth double-double, while Blue netted 27 points as well. Blue and Hope are the heart and soul of tho Hurricane ofl"ense, as they are the second and third loading scorers in the Big East with 19.9 and 17.9 points por game resp1~ctively. llope is also the conference leader in overall rebounding. averaging 9.9 boards a game. 
"We need to get on a roll, but we can't even look that far ahead yet." hnad coach MuiTr.t McGraw. "We just have too much to do before that. Tuesday's going to be a huge game, especially since we're at Miami. 
"We only won by one point last year, and they're very tough at horne," she said. "We really can't afford to lose again, because we really need to get 

see MIAMI I page 18 
"Andrzej was a bit inconsistent last week, but he, and the team came together this week," commented head coach Yves Auriol. 
The biggest problem thus far for the Irish has been the performance of the men's toilists. That was not the case this weekend, as the top three fencers -Chaz Hayes, Stephane Auriol, and John Tejada -finished with records of 11-0, 12-2, and 11-3, respectively. 
"Chaz's fencing has been consistent throughout," said Auriol. "The key was the three guys fencing at their level." 
The usual unpredictability of the foil squad was instead experienced by the men's epee team this weekend. 
Squad leaders Carl Jackson and Brian Stone led them, and Dominic Guarnaschelli turned last weekend's below .500 performance into a respectable 7-5 finish this week as the 
see VICTORY I page 18 
Men's Basketball at Rutgers, February 5, 7:30p.m. 
Women's Basketball 
•
at Miami, Today, 7 p.m. 
•
Hockey 

Basketball vs. Bethel 
vs. Bowling Green, 
College
SO'
..•:·:· 

February 6, 7 p.m. :\L ~ 
February 8, 2 p.m. 
see page 12 





