·---~· 
• Faculty Senate addresses the decision by the
• Wondering where to live off 
Thursday
Office of Student Affairs to place the Women's

campus next year? Scene high­
Resource Center on probation for allegedly providing

liglus rl~e pros and cons of vari­
SEPTEMBER
abortion information.

ous opnons. 
Scene· 12 
News·3 
17, 1998 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 17 WWW. N D.EDU/-OBSERVER 

Students gather in vigil to pray for Keenan senior 


"It's in Brent's nature to fight this thing, and he's already fought his way back. Right now every.. thing is in the air. With the information we have, I think we have a lot of room for hope." 

Eric Robben Resident Assistant, Keenan Hall 

Moberg continues to fight through coma at area hospital 
By ERICA THESING News Writer 
Senior Brent Moberg has been drift­ing in and out of a coma since an AZ malformation in the right side of his brain burst TtHJsday morning, accord­ing to Gwyneth Murray-Nolan, a friend of Moberg. lie went to the Notre Dame infirmary at approxi­mately 11:30 a.m. Tuesday complain­ing of a headache and, within min­utos of arriving, collapsed and slipped into a coma, Murray-Nolan said. 
Moborg, an H.A. in Keenan Ilall, was rushed to the hospital and under­went surgery at 1 p.m. Tuesday to release the pmssure on his brain and reduce the chance for internal hem­orrhaging, according to Murray­Nolan. Since the surgery, Moberg has awakened a few times and written notes to his family and friends. 
"He's aware that something is wrong," said Murray-Nolan. "lie's been awake. lie's recognized family. We've prayed. He wrote notes all morning about getting a drink of water and asking about Brother Bonaventure, the rector of Keenan Hall." 
Moberg's progress has surprised his doctors, said senior Eric Robben, a Keenan H.A. who plays in a band with Moberg. 
"It's in Brent's nature to fight this thing, and he's already fought his way back," he said. "Right now every­thing is up in the air. With the infor­mation we have. I think we have a lot of room for hope." 
Despite Moberg's initial progress, he is still slipping in and out of the coma and it will be a while longer until doctors know anything definite, according to his sister Emily, a fresh­man at Saint Mary's. 
"They are keeping brain pressure low," she said. "He's going to be in intensive care for about two weeks before Ithe doctors] know anything." 
Moberg's friends and family quickly 
rallied around him, organizing Masses, prayer services and vigils. Moberg's friends are a tight group, and that has helped them through this time, according to senior Tim Hosa, an ItA. in Keenan. 
"We're like each other's brothers, and that's how we feel about this," said Rosa. "lie's a great friend. Bront is there for anybody and everybody. There isn't a time wo're around Brent that we aron't smiling. lie's the dofin­ition of a friend." 
Mobmg's friends organiznd a Mass for Tuesday night and a continuous prayer vigil that began immediatnly after the Mass. Nearly 400 people filled the Kennan chapel for that Mass, according to Hobben. 
"[Tuesday! was really reassuring when we had that many people stuffed in the chapel," he said. "There were 350 people there, at least. That's phenomenal." 
The vigil began at midnight Tuesday and consists of half-hour shifts, with people keeping a constant 
see MOBERG I page 4 

• STUDENT SENATE 

Members support broader non-discrimination clause 
ByTIM LOGAN 
A\!ooisrolflt NL•ws Editor 
;\ddilion of' sPxual orientation to the Univt~rsity's nondiscrimination rlause and the Student Union bud­get were among the issuos taken up in a IPngthy meeting of the Student Senate last night. 
Tlw hody passed a resolution call­ing on llw Jo:xerutive Committee and llw ;\cadPmic Council to address tlw change to llw clause as soon as pos­sihll'. 
"TIH' tinwliness of this action is important in order to get it 
addition of sexual orientation to the nondiscrimination clause. Others present, however, were not as enthusiastic about the resolution. 
''I'm a little concerned that we haven't fully explored this issue," said Joe Cassidy, director of Student Activities. lie noted that the Spirit of Inclusion statement was assembled by a group of University administra­tors which included lawyers and tlwologians to discuss the legal and religious aspects of' the issue. 
"It's an important issue to this campus. but then~ hasn't betm an 
effort to 
bring in the­
011 t h(' 'THIS WILL HELP [HOMOSEXUALS] TO ological experts or
;\ r a d e Ill i r GET WHAT WE ALL DESERVE, WHICH 
Council agen­lawyers," he IS RESPECT AND THE ABILITY NOT TO BE
da," said continued. I' a n g b o r II DISCRIMINATED AGAINST.' There was 
senator S u s a n Holwrts. Tht~ Council's agt~nda is set hy the ExtH'utive Committeo, which will hold its rwxt nweting on Sept. 2S. 
Whiln tlw n~solution specifically deals with encouraging discussion and did not addrnss the nondiscrim­ination clausn itself. debato quickly shirted to the pros and cons of adding soxual orinntation to tho clause. nspncially ·in light of the Spirit of Inclusion statnment which was adoptml in August, 1997. 
"Tiw Spirit of Inclusion ... doesn't go far enough." said Pasquerilla West sonator Susan Gloss. "We need to takn a mon~ drastie action with the nondiscrimination efause itself." 
Previous senates have passed res­olutions directly supporting the 
also concern about the SusAN Rommn-potential P!ING/10/IN liM./. Sl:Nil UJ/1 costs of this 
measure, whieh would leave the University vulnerable to lawsuits claiming dis­crimination based on sexual orion­tation. 
"Tlw legal implications cannot be forgotten here," said Morrissey sen­ator Hyan Constantini. "This is going to end up being a eost of money to this school. We as stu­dents don't benetit from that." 
Thnrn was vehement disagree­ment on that issue from some mem­bers, hownver. 
"You have to pay that price to treat everyone equally," said Roberts. "This will help [homosexu­alsJ get what we all deserve, which 
see SENATE I page 4 

Students participated in the second of a six-session series of swing dancing lessons offered at The Rock this year. Students can register for all six lessons or pay per lesson. 


Thursday, September 17, 1998
The Observer· INSIDE 




utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

U. Pennsylvania task force takes aim at binge drinking 
PHilADELPHIA .....----~=-=,.,.,..._,.,__,,., risk behavior associated with aleohol abuse. 
Calling upon Penn to make changes in its academic, social and judicial responses to col­legiate alcohol abuse, a University-wide task force is taking aim at one of the most contro­versial issues in higher education today -the prevalence of binge drinking on many college campuses. 
The issue has taken on increasing impor­tance following the release of a recent national study reporting a major increase in binge drinking on college campuses and a year of high-profile, alcohol-related hospitalizations at Penn and deaths at schools from Massachusetts to Louisiana. 
Last January, in response to several inci­dents of alcohol-related violence on campus, University res­ident Judith Rodin appointed a special committee charged with making recommendations on how to combat binge drinking at Penn. 
After months of discussion, the committee has finished a 10-page report outlining strategies to mitigate the campus' "culture of acceptance for excessive drinking" and coordi­nate the University's efforts to prevent and punish the high­
• MCGILL UNIVERSITY Student group sues over tuition 
MONTREAL, Quebec 
The Students' Society of McGill University has hired a new lawyer to deal with the difl'erential tuition case. Jean­Guy Bertrand, a prominent Quebec City lawyer best known for his work in a Supreme Court case on unilateral succession, has been retained by SSMU to try the case before the Quebec Court of Appeals. In June 1997, SSMU launched a lawsuit which challenged the Quebec govern­ment's differential tuition fees policy-a policy which effectively doubled tuition for out-of-province students with an additional $40 fee per course credit. The Students' Society argued that Quebec Education Minister Pauline Marois overstepped her ministerial role in creat­ing the policy, thereby rendering it illegal. The argument also stated that the policy was discriminatory and violated the Canadian constitution. Last February, however, the courts ruled in favor of the Quebec government, leaving SSMU with the option of appealing the decision. 
• UNIVERSITY OF PITISBURGH 
President faces discrimination suit 
PITTSBURGH, Penn. 
The University has not responded to a gender-and sex­discrimination suit filed in federal court against Pitt­Johnstown and its president, Albert L. Etheridge. Clea Patrick Hollis, UPJ's director of affirmative action, filed the three-count complaint in U.S. District Court in July. The complaint claims that Etheridge, since he took the president's office in 1994, has tried to "deprive Plaintiff (Hollis} of her constitutional rights, belittle her, demean her, and drive her from her employment" because she was black and a woman. The complaint alleges that Etheridge told Hollis that "he did not believe in affirmative action and that he would do everything possible to avoid implementing its principles." Hollis is seeking both com­pensatory and punitive damages. Her trial lawyer, Robert Cohen, would not say how much money Hollis is asking for. Cohen said the University still has time to respond to the charges. "They're not too late," Cohen said. 
The report makes a sweeping set of recom­mendations, including improving colleetion of data on binge drinking, notifying parents after any alcohol-related incident involving a stu­dent, and scheduling more classes on Fridays to discourage students from beginning week­end drinking on Thursday nights. 
The committee's main recommendations, several committee members said, were the hiring of a "coordinator" to oversee and administer the University's academic, discipli­nary and medical responses to problem drinkers and to offer more non-alcoholic pro­gramming to students who might otherwise drink. 
Leaders of Penn's Greek community criticized the report, however, for blaming fraternities' for campus alcohol abuse while ignoring the non-Greek party scene. 
InterFraternity Council President Josh Belinfante. a senior, took particular exception to the report's claim that "fraternities have played a major role in a significant num­ber of alcohol-related instances of misconduet or life-threat­ening alcohol overdose." 
• BOSTON UNIVERSITY 

Police warn against predator 
BOSTON 

Boston University Police are telling female students to watch out for a predator who tricks his victims into having sex by impersonating their friends. Using a phony female voice, the suspect calls women at random and pretends to be a friend who is held against her will, police said. The suspect then says the friend will be hurt unless the victim agrees to have sex, often orally. "This guy is very good and very convincing," said Detective Sgt. Robert Molloy. "You would never believe that he could possibly be a man if you heard his voice." The suspect, a 31-year-old man. has victimized at least three BU students in the past six months, Molloy said. The suspect uses any information women inadvertently reveal to establish a false identity. "He calls these girls in their rooms and sets up some sce­nario where they are asked to leave their dorms and meet him at a designated spot, where he then makes sexual advances toward the girl," Molloy said. 
• UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA 
Minority grad student numbers fall 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. 

A new report has found the number of black students in graduate science and engineering programs nationwidn fell by 20 percent between 1996 and 1 997. But of'lieials at the University of Virginia said for the most part minority enrollment in Ph.D. science and engineering disciplines has not followed national trends. The American Association for the Advancement of Science released the report. "Losing Ground: Scienc:e and Engineering Graduate Education of Black and Hispanic Americans," Friday. The report sampled 93 universities that are among the top recipients of federal funds for research and development. The report studied application, admission, financial aid and enrollment information according to race and ethnicity. The report stated that the number of Hispanic-American science and engineering graduate stu­dents fell 18.2 percent, and that anti-affirmative action rulings have produced an "unwelcoming environment." 

Boise
4,9-,~86}8 (f ~ u 
Boston 

Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Chicago 76 58 Malibu 77 64 Tampa 88 77 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
Denver 88 54 Miami 86 78 Topeka 80 56 
Thursday, September 17, 1998 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 3 
• fACUlTY SENATE 

Committees pinpoint concerns for coming year 
By DEREK BETCHER 
A"isranr News Editor 
Farulty Senaln memlwrs will oxploro tiH• implications of a lwo-ypar probation issuml last spring to tho Wonwn's HI)Sourco CnntPr. Tlwy vowod in their lirst mPnting of tlw senwstnr last night to look into the subjoet and otlwrs that involve bmwlils, arademi<:s and administration -llw issuos that af'l'oet their rlassrooms and studm1Ls. 
Tlw sonato's pernHtnnnt stu­dPnt affairs rommitl<Hl. chaired by assistant dPan of tho College of Arts and l.eltnrs Ava l'rPachPr, was con<·PrnPd by PVPnts stPmming from thP Offien of Studnnt Affairs' dPdsion last spring lo pul llw studnnt group on probation f"or two ynars for n•port<'dly supplying pro-choicn matnrials to intProslnd sludonts. 
"This is a priority lwcause it happ<'!Wd this sumnwr. and stu­dnnls and raculty havo not f"ully d igost<'d what has happnnnd," said assot:iatn profnssor of' Hnglish Harhara (;nH•n. "We aro all in fart impactod by this. It raisos issuPs about our dass­rooms and how frt!dy our stu­dPnls arP allowPd to think oncn tlwy lnaw thPm." 
l'rofnssor of philosophy l·:dward Manit~!' agrnt~d. 
"ThP classroom is a priviloged an•a whpn• you can dnbatn all sidns of an issw•. You ran 't do Ihal in a sludPnl'organization," ill' said. "Tiu•n•s a dil'f'nrl!nt S<'l of standards that appliPs to clubs than appliPs in tlw class­room. 
CommitiPP lll<'llllwrs dis­russPd and <·onsidPrPd thn implications of tlw UnivPrsity's artion and its trnatnwnt of stu­dents involved in the situation. They concluded that a careful fact-finding foray was the most appropriate starting point for tlwir dforts. 
The committee also identified roview of tho Honor Code as warranting its attention this fall. The memi.Jers. who wore partic­ularly concernnd with procedur­al uncertainties in dealing with violations, agreed that the llonor Codo likely warrants an evaluation of some sort because it has not been rnviewed since its implmnentation in 1989. 
They also agrnnd that the rodesigned Teacher-Course Evaluation forms and the ovnr­all tnaclwr and course evalua­tion process nnnd to bo nvaluat­ecl. 
During the sonate meeting's committ1)e roports, other chair­persons also announced the issues they plan to address first this fall: 
• 
The academic affairs com­mitten. chaired by associate professor of theology Gregory Storling, will consider Notre Danw's tnnure systnm, its space planning and proposnd confnr­ence alliances. 

"We will try to explore the implications on academics of Notre Damn going into the Big Ten." Sterling said. "If we're going to have a voico, we nend to have it soon." 

• 
Tho committon on adminis­tration. chaired by professor of physics lkaros Bigi, reported it will addross ago discrimination issues at tho University, new conridonliality rules and con­rorn ov1~r a 111;w employoo drug testing policy this fall. Tho com­mittee will also continue its work from last somnster on 




University alcohol policies af'f'eeting the faculty. 
• 
The benefits committee, chaired by professor of finance Thomas Cosimano assembled three subcommittees to explore growth of the Notre Dame endowment and its impact on tuition, medical benefits, and retirement benefits. 

Earlier in the meeting senate chairman Michael Detlefsen, professor of philosophy, deliv­Pred his chair's report to the greater senate. lie briefly louehml upon four groups of items. 

• 
First, Detlefsen updated the senaln on the delayed progress of' their May report to the University's Academic Council. 



That report addressed the University's "US News and World Heport" academic rank­ings and proposed expansion of the non-discrimination clause. 
Although this senate paper was delivered last spring, the University would not accept the document until the minutes from last May's final Faculty Senate meeting were formally approved, Detlefsen reported. That certilication took place at last night's senate meeting. 
• Secondly, nearly a dozen assorted concerns had bnnn brought to Detlefsen's attention since the last senate meeting. A listing of these issues -from age discrimination to graduatn student space problems -com­
prised an item of the chair's report. 
"I've conveyed tlwse concerns to the members of our executive committne and the will bn reflected in thn coming yearOs work," Detlnf'sen said. 
Each coneern was revisited in the following committee reports. 
• Detlefsen's report also addressed meetings with associ­ate provost .Jeffrey Kantor regarding a campus shortage of onice space. 
"It may take a few years to complete," Detlefsen told llw senate. 
• Expansion of ofT-campus dial-in capabilities is complete, Detlefsen told the snnatn in his fourth item. 
Becker: Trade with Mexico free, but not fair 
By BRIDGET O'CONNOR 
Aw•ria1e Ntw' Editor 
"\\'p an• in llw midst of global tradl' and global economics ­llwn's no insulation from it." said (;t!OI"g<~ llncknr. pn~sidm1l of thn Unitl'd Stenlworknrs of Anwriea ILISWA) last night in his lnctun! 1mtitlnd. ".Justien in the (;lobal Economy: A Worknr 1'1~ rs pnctivn." 
lkcker acknowledgml that the bord1~r bdwnnn Mexko and thn Unitnd Stales was eiTnctivnly non-existPnt as a result of the North Amnrican Fnw Trade Agrnnmnnt INAFTAJ. but slrPssnd six points that the USWA feels the U.S. should focus on to alleviatn thn tremnndous tradn dnfir.it which has nmergnd since the trnaty. 
"(;lobal economy with global business needs global rules," said Becker. lin distinguished between frne trade and fair trade saying, "Somewhere along the linn you have to inject anoth­nr word-I think it's fair trade." Although the conditions between Mexico and the U.S. may qualify 
as frne, they are by no nwans fair according to Beeker. "The Mexican workers are just as skilled as any you'll lind in the 
U.S. but the living conditions are horrible," he said. lie related tho conditions he witnessed on numerous visits to Mexico, which includnd dirt floors and a lack of electricity, running water and sewage systems. 
The average worker in these plants makes 34 pesos, or $4.50, for a 14-hour workday. Although most of the factories are mod­ern, workers are still subjected 


CLASS OF 2000 GOLF SCRAMBLE!! 
( 

1st Prize Color TV 

I 

Other Prizes Include: -2nd Place Team -3rd Place Team 
-Worst Team -Long Drive -Closest to the Pin $36 per 4 person te~Jm, call Erich or Mike @ 4 x 3546 Sunday, September 20th at Notre Dame * one free sleeve of golf balls per entering player, anyone can enter 
Sponsored by: 
fJR/cEWATERHOUsF@JPERS ri 
to various toxins. Women are periodically tested for pregnan­cy. 
"They promised that this would creatn a whole new way of life," said Beeker of NAFTA proponents. This new way of' life was to include the creation of jobs and and improved standard of living. He argued that instead, the wage level has dropped 40 percent, and two million jobs have been lost in Mexico. 
"Mexican workers feel betrayed," he said, adding that they want the deal to be renego­tiated. 
More than 500,000 jobs have been lost in the U.S. as a result of the agreement. The USWA has filed a lawsuit charging that NAFT A is uneonstitutional on the basis that it is actually a treaty and as such requires a two­thirds approval by the Senate. Since the agreement did not receive such an approval, the USWA feels it should be invalid. 
''I'm not a protectionist," Becker clarified, but he argued that the playing field needed to bn leveled in a global oeonomy. 
"Entrepreneurs and compa­nies are searching for the lowest price" and aro going to other countries to get it, he explained. Becker said that in those coun­tries, "Workers are exploited and their eeonomies are raped." 
Because the U.S. requires that employers account for occupa­tional safety and health, mini­mum wage, unemployment, and financial supports such as Medicare and Social Security, it is unlikely that it will be less expensive for multi-national cor­porations to operate in the U.S. 
Becker stressed fairness rather than freedom in trade and also asserted that the U.S. should "practice the golden rule." This, he said, meant that one-way trade with countries like Japan was unacceptable. 
Becker is a member of the Executive Coum~il of the AFL-CIO and the Executive Committee of the International Metalworkers Federation and the International Federation of Chemkal, Energy, Mine, and General Workers. 

Hilltop Lutheran Church South Bend 
Must provide own transportation. 
Contact Shery: Home-291-4105 Work-674-7025 (8-5) 
------------------~--------------­
page 4 



Moberg 
continued from page 1 
prayer chain for Moberg. 
"That's 48 people a day for the next four days, and every slot is filled. Sometimes there are two or three people there at a time," Robben said. 
The prayer is very impor­tant to Moberg's family, according to his sister. In addition to Keenan's efforts, Saint Mary's also organized a prayer service, and the family is asking that everyone say a novena for Moberg's recovery. 
"Everyone is so supportive," Emily said. "We just really want everyone to pray. A lot of people are praying all over the country." 
Rosa points to the faith of Moberg's family as a key in getting through this time. 
'Til tell you where a lot of the credit goes to -his fami­ly, his mother, father and sis­ter," Rosa said. "Their faith is incredible. We're leaning on them and trying to be there for them." 
Rosa and Moberg's other friends would like to thank the Notre Dame community for its support. 
"On behalf of the people here in Keenan, especially the staff, we want to extend a thanks to the campus," said Rosa. "It's been overwhelming and a great lift for us. Brent's family is really feeding off what this campus is doing. They are really feeding off the prayers and the support, and I know it's really important to them." 
Moberg is in the Arts and Letters pre-professional pro­gram and is in the process of applying to medical schools. Besides his work as an R.A. and playing the guitar with his band in the Acoustic Cafe and at other campus engage­ments, Moberg also helps coach the Lewis Hall football team and is involved with Keenan's baseball team. 
Rosa asks that everyone direct all cards and gifts in care of the Keenan Hall staff. 




News? 1-5323 
.; .......©,.;:..... . 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
is respect and the ability to not be discriminated against." Keenan senator Matt Mamak agreed. 
"We're not lawyers; we can't tell the future," he said. "I have to vote in favor of this because of my belief that we shouldn't discriminate against each other." 
A letter was submitted to the senate by junior Jennifer Ryan opposing the measure under debate. 
"Sexual orientation is a disor­dered inclination (akin to an inclination to steal) for which discrimination of the act and even the orientation itself, without discrimination of the person, is the teaching of the Catholic Church," wrote Ryan. "As a Catholic university, it is unreasonable to ask the University to break from its foundations and its mission." 
A number of senators disput­ed this viewpoint during the debate, including Roberts, not­ing that the 1994 version of the Catholic catechism states "every sign of unjust discrimi­nation should be avoided." 
"Not including [sexual orien­tation] because we're a Catholic institution is not a valid objection," she said. 
Ultimately, the body voted 22-2-4 to pass the resolution. 
The Faculty Senate voted unanimously last April to sup­port the non-discrimination clause, and the Executive Committee will decide on Sept. 28 whether or not to put the motion on the Academic Council's agenda for its Oct. 8 meeting. 

If the Council passes the reso­lution, it will go to the Board of Trustees for final approval. 
In other Senate news: 
• The senate approved a two year payback plan for the $66,000 Student Union debt from the 1997-98 school year. In addition to the program, the senate passed several constitu­tional amendments which are intended to prevent the prob­lem from recurring. 
"I think this plan is going to work out all right," said Student Union treasurer T.J. Wolfe. "It should resolve the problem rather quickly." 

In each of the next two years, Student Union organizations are scheduled to pay back $26,325, with the bulk of that money coming from the Student Union Board and the Office of the President. Together, those two offices lost more $50,000 in the last fiscal year. 
The senate also unanimously approved four measures for-

r---------------------------------~ 
PEACE CORPS 

INFORMATION SESSIONS 
Center for Social Concerns Thursday, September 17 
6:00 p.m. -7:30 p.m. 


<Boo> 424-·Bsao 

www.peacecorps.gov 


Thursday, September 17, 1998
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
malizing the responsibilities of the Financial Management Board and the Student Union treasurer.. One of these mea­sures gives the treasurer the power to freeze the accounts of any organization which has "an unresolvable deficit [posing] a significant financial threat to the stability of the Student Union." 
• The body approved the topic of the Student Government's report to the Board of Trustees this semes­ter. The report will be on the First Year of Studies program and will include suggestions for improving the transition from freshman to sophomore year. 
Among the measures called for in the report will be the establishment of a writing cen­ter for all students, the creation of a program to help sopho­mores select a major and the development of an undergradu­ate scholarship office, accord­ing to Mark Massoud, head of Student Government's depart­ment on reports to the Board of Trustees. 
Massoud pointed to the diffi­cult adjustment many sopho­mores have after their relation­gram moving into a new build­ship with the First Year of ing on the site of the Hammes Studies program and its ser­Bookstore in a few years, now vices comes to an end. He also would be a good time to start suggested that, with the pro-expanding its services. 

Fischoffs "Taste of Chamber Music" Celebrates 





Gershwin &Gourmet 
,. 

Friday, September 25 Northern Indiana Center for History 7:00p.m. 
Gounnet Sampling by Basil's on the Race • Blue Heron at Blackthorn Elcona Country Club • The Exchange Bakery LaSalle Grill • The Morris Inn • Morris Park Coun~ry Club Pickwick Place • South Bend Country Club • Sumrmt Club University Club, Notre Dame • Victorian Pantry, Inc. 
Gershwin's Music by FischoffPrize-Winning Ensembles 
Underwriters BAKER & DANIELS • PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES, INC. D~ & Mrs. Robert N. Hunt • KeyBank • Kruggel, Lawton & Co. Doug &Karen Mick Mossberg & Co., Inc. • McGladre_y & Pullen, LLP Shamrock Development, Inc. • Stanz Food.serv1ce, Inc. 


PICK UP YOUR YEARBOOK!! 



Thursday, St·ptember 17, 1998 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WoRLD NEws BRIEFS 
Irate Italians suspend strike 
HOME 

A two-month dublwrs' strikn was suspond­Pd WPdnnsday night. hours after Italian viPwnrs inundatnd a TV nntwork with phono ralls to protnsl that Anwrican soap stars wPrP spPaking English instoad of Llwir usual Italian. In addition to halting tlw strike, the dubiJPrs also agretHI to rnturn to negotia­tions. arrording to a rnport by the Italian nPws aw~nry ANSA. With tlw shows only rPrnntly rnturning to the air aftnr the tradi­lional sumnwr brPak. it was exactly what vinwPrs wantnd to hoar. Aftnr thn lunch-hour hroadrast of "Tiw Bold and tlw Boautiful." whirh gons by tlw titln "Bnautiful" in Italy, hurHin•ds of viPwPrs had callnd to demand thPir stars spnak only Italian, said Yuri l'riori. a switchboard opPrator at Mndiasnt. 
Hamas threatens Israel 
c;AZA CITY 

In a VPilPd thrPat against lsnwli loaders, tlw l'oundl'r of thP Islamic militant group llamas said today lhat thosP who ordnn~d till' killings or two lop llamas l'ugitivns should !'Par !'or tlwir saf'dy. Tlw fugitivns. brothers lmad and AdPI Awadallah. WPro shot to dPath last wnPk wlwn lsnwli troops raidnd llwir WPst Bank hidnout. Tlw brntlwrs had IH'I'Il involvPd in plotting tnrror attacks in lsraPI. llamas said it would dntonatP suiddo bombings in Tnl Aviv in retaliation. The group, whirh hopns to wrnck the lsraeli­l'aii!Stinian pnan! accords, has killml scorBs ol' lsradis in more than a doznn attacks since 1994. In an intPrvinw with Tlw Associatnd l'rPss today. llamas foundnr and spiritual IPadPr Slwik Ahnwd Yassin, appPared to be raising tlw IPVI'I or thn!ats against lsralll by singling out thosn who ordnrnd tlw killings of llw Awadallahs. 
Teacher uses box to punish 
WEST PALM BEACH. Fla. 

A high school frnshman allngndly forced to nndun! hours in tho "Shu~knr's Box." a 3-by-4­l'oot spacn under tho dassroom sink, has filt~d a fndm·al lawsuit against the teacher he says put him thorn. Tlw I (>-year-old student, identi­fipd only as CTH, said hn suffered severe humiliation and nmbarrassment because of tPadwr Jdf Tytlnr. who was fired in I997 af'tpr· school oflicials chargml hn used bizarre, militaristir. codns in his classroom. "It's one of thosp storil's that if you tell anybody about it. tlwir jaws drop." said Hosemarie Hichard. tlw attonwy rnpwsenting the student and his par­Pills. Tlw "Slacker's Box" was a cubbyhole LIIHII'r a sink cot111tnr wlwn! studnnts who Wl'l'!' punislwd had to sit. oftPn with their kni'PS turkNI to tlwir chnsts, tlw lawsuit said. Tlw hoy and his l'arnily arn senking unspecified damagPs. 
NrMMIWif&dflldl 
Dow 
AMEX: 
629.13
}ONES 
t4.R5 Nasdaq:
8089.78 
fr 
1689.91 + 11.80 NYSE: 518.05 t4.13 S&P 500: I 045.48 

Composite
t7.80 
Volume:+65.39 724.300.000 
MOST TRADED STOCKS 

l !.!MI'~::S~' IU bill '!:ltru,u::Uir 1 ~i,~lts !'nUT 
Telt•hra\ THR ·0.09 -0.0625 71.9.!75 tlillt•ttt•Co. (i. -II. Ll -5.0000 39.9:!75 Lucent Tech LU. +2.77 +2.0625 76.5625 Gen. Electric GE +2.32 +1.11125 79.1175 l'hilip-Morri.l MO +2.10 +0.9:!75 45.625 CTC·S/'"' CTC ·2.:!2 .().:J750 15.11125 Travt•l eu <..iroup TRV +0.72 +0.3125 43.125 Citicmp CCI ·1.08 ·1.1250 102.75 Compaq CPQ ·0.19 ·0.0625 32.11175 Trlrf. Mexico TMX +2.52 +1.0625 43.0625 
• RUSSIA 


Yeltsin reassures country as ruble falls 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
MOSCOW 

President Boris Yeltsin claimed Wednesday that Bussia was returning to normal. but the ruble's value plunged again and Communists warned of a nr.w political confronta­tion if any "odious" reformers werr. brought back into the Cabinet. 
Sp11aking by telephone with Gr.rman Chancellor Helmut Kohl. Yeltsin "strnss11d that tho situation is gntting back to normal," the presidential press servicn said. Gormany is Hussia's biggost trading partner. 
But tho value of tho ruble slid Wednesday to about 1:1-16 to the dol­lar in street trading aftnr reaching 
7.5 to the dollar the day before. The drop left the Hussian currency worth less than half of what it was a month ago. 
Yelstin's assessment came as he appointed two morn economic moder­ates to thfJ Cabinet of new Prime Minister Yevgeny Primakov. The Hussian leader has now given Primakov four deputy premiers ­thn111 of them considered moderate refornwrs and one a Communist tech­nocrat. 
Tho nnw government, designed to accommodate Hussia's disparate politieal factions, has halted bitter feuding betwe11n the Kremlin and Communist-led opposition -at least for the time boing. But it was unclear when it would spell out a plan for easing Hussia's nconomic crisis. 
"We have not yet drawn up any guidelines for our economic policy; it 
· is only being shapnd." conceded the new deputy prime minister in charge of financial issues, Alexander Shokhin. 
Even the truce between various political factions remained shaky. error. deputies: Shokhin, a pro-government 
Communist leader Gennady Fifty-nine percent is a remarkably centrist leader, and Yuri Maslyukov, a Zyuganov warned Wednesday that if high level of support in Russia, where senior Communist lawmaker who any leading reformers -"the odious cynicism about government is the rule previously served Yeltsin as industry people who ruined Hussia" -were rather than the exception. By con­minister and now has been put in brought back into the Cabinet, or if trast, Yeltsin's approval rating has charge of economic policy. the government resumed the "liberal been hovering around four percent. The new government appears divid­policies" of its predecessor, political The two new deputy prime minis­ed over how to handle the crisis, confrontation would flare again. ters appointed Wednesday were including whether to print more 
However. in a sign of unusual sup­Vladimir Hyzhkov, parliamentary rubles to pay millions of workers port for the government, 59 percent leader of a pro-government faction. owed months of overdue wages. The of Hussia's urban population and Vladimir Bulgak, who was sci­government has said its top priority is approved of Primakov's appointment, ence and technology minister in the to end the chronic problem. according to a poll by the indepen­previous government. Central Bank chairman Viktor dent All-Hussian Public Opinion Both are considered moderate Gerashchenko has said he favors Hesearch Center. reformers and are unlikely to antago­expanding the money supply so the 
Only 17 percent disapproved, said nize the opposition. government can pay frustrated work­tho poll, which listed no margin of They join two previously appointed ers and pensioners. 
•IRAQ 


Iraq presents new threats to U.N. 
AssOCIATED PRESS The Security Council on Command Council, Iraq's destroyed its long-range Sept. 9 condemned Iraq's highest decision-making missiles and chemical, bio­BAGHDAD decision to stop aiding U.N. body, said Wednesday it logical and nuclear weapons 
Iraq threatened again arms inspectors as "a totally would implement the Iraqi bofore the Security Couneil Wednesday to end cooptlra­unacceptable contravention" parliament's recommenda­will lift sanctions. tion with U.N. arms moni­of council resolutions. It sus·· tion to freeze the remaining Iraq withdrew coopera­tors if the U.N. Security pended the 60-day reviews U.N. monitoring of weapons tion with tht~ inspectors Council did not reverse its of U.N. sanctions imposed sites "at a suitable time.H after the chief inspector, decision to suspend reviews on Iraq after its 1990 inva· the official Iraqi News Richard Butler, refused to of economic sanctions. sion of Kuwait. Agency reported. certify that Iraq had 
The Baghdad government Iraqi President Saddam "The duration of this time destroyed its banned announced last month it Hussein had promised lraqis will be short if the United weapons. would no longer aid U.N. that sanctions would be lift-States and Britain persist Iraq's parliament called inspections of suspected ed by early next year, but with their hostility," the Monday for the government weapons sites. The new the council's move left Revolutionary Command to put a stop to the U.N. threat, ifcarried out, would Baghdad with no mecha.· Council warned after a monitoring, which would end its cooperation in the nism to have the embargo meeting chaired by Hussein. effectively close down the 
U.N. monitoring of already terminated. U.N. arms experts must whole inspection operation. inspected sites. The Revolutionct,ty certify that Iraq has 

=·. :·:)~~}~~=·~(·.=:·· . 
.. . .­

Thursday, September 17, 1998
page 6 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS 
Clinton critics admit affairs and 'indiscretions' 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Rep. Henry Hyde, the House member leading the impeach­ment review of President Clinton, admitted Wednesday to "indiscretions" with a woman in the 1960s at a time both were married. 
The Judiciary Committee chairman responded to a story in an Internet magazine, Salon, which detailed an affair with a woman identified as Cherie Snodgrass. 
The Illinois Republican called the article "an obvious attempt to intimidate me" and vowed that it would not affect any impeachment proceeding. Salon has frequently criticized Independent Counsel Kenneth Starr's investigation of Clinton. 
Fred Snodgrass, who lives near Fort Lauderdale, Fla., broke down and cried in an interview as he described the affair that Hyde, R-Ill., had with his ex-wife three decades ago. 
"It's ridiculous. He had an affair with a young woman with three children. At least the president didn't do that," he said of Hyde. 
Snodgrass, who divorced his wife, remarried her and then divorced again in 1971, said the affair devastated the chil­dren. 
Calling Hyde a "super hyp­ocrite," Snodgrass said he sus­pected his wife was having an affair when she began staying out until 3 a.m. and coming home drunk. 
"She was so miserable; she said she loved us both," he said. 
The former Mrs. Snodgrass is now Ms. Cherie Soskin of San Antonio, Texas. Efforts to reach her there were not immediately successful. 
In a memo this week to Judiciary Committee members, Hyde warned that "some sup­porters of the president, possi­bly including White House staff, may be attempting to collect and disseminate derogatory personal information about members of Congress, particu" larly those serving on the House Judiciary Committee." 
The memo added that efforts to intimidate lawmakers or interfere with their official duties would violate U.S. crimi­nal law. 
White House press secretary Mike McCurry said the White House was not connected with the story in any way and has made it clear that anyone who peddled such information would be fired. 

"People here are livid that it would even be suggested we were a source of the informa­tion and livid if anyone here attempted to the be the source of that information. It is the last thing we need at this moment," he said. 
"The statute of limitations has long since passed on my youthful indiscretions. Suffice it to say, Cherie Snodgrass and I were good friends a long, long time ago," said Hyde in a state­ment. "After Mr. Snodgrass confronted my wife, the friend­ship ended and my marriage remained intact." 
Last week a conservative Republican, Rep. Helen Chenoweth of Idaho, admitted she was wrong to have a long­term affair with a married man more than a decade ago. Ms. Chenoweth has sought Clinton's resignation since April because of the Monica Lewinsky scan­dal. 
And earlier this month Rep. Dan Burton, R-Ind., who is con-
Lewinsky Inquiry costs 
Summar,• of expenses related to the independen1 counset inve51igation of 1he Mooica Lewinsky matter: 

Pe;sonnel co.mr:;.ar..sation/ ~11$ . Travel ctl&1s Rent. comm(mh;:.a.hons.. 


•I 
._$356.494
tAifities Con!fa(:t!JI[Il ~·ices 


$-584.11{;1 S~ies ar,di servic.ss 
~~ $82;65.3 
CapitaJ equipmerM 

I $Hffl.tl21 .At.:tministrative serw:es 
I S73.294 
ducting a campaign fund-rais­ing investigation of Clinton, admitted that he fathered a child in an extramarital affair. 
Hyde told a closed House Republican caucus Wednesday that lawmakers should be alert to investigations of their per­sonal life, according to sources at the meeting who spoke only on condition of anonymity. He contended that allies of Clinton have hired two law firms to investigate Republicans. 

Salon said Hyde had a five­year sexual relationship with the former Ms. Snodgrass and published a picture of a woman it identified as her sitting on Hyde's lap. The affair was car­ried on from 1965 to 1969. Hyde was 41 when the affair began and Ms. Snodgrass was 12 years younger, the story said. 
The editors of Salon, an Internet publication, said they decided to run the Hyde story because "Clinton's enemies have changed the rules." 
"Does the fact that Henry Hyde engaged in an adulterous affair, and tried to keep it hid­den from his family and con­stituents. mean he is not fit to hold public office? Absolutely not. And the same is true of President Clinton," the editors said. 
"The president's attack dogs don't know difference between breaking the law and making a mistake decades ago," said House Majority Whip Tom DeLay, R-Texas, of the story. 
"Nobody doubts the credibility of Henry Hyde; nobody doubts his integrity; nobody doubts his sense of fairness and his sense of honor," said DeLay, who has called for Clinton's resignation. 
Karen Johnson Cartee, a pro­fessor ·at trie University of Alabama who writes on dirty campaigns and negative politi­cal advertising, said partisan forees likely account for recent stories about the personal lives of politicians. 
"It takes some of the attention away from the president's prob­lems," Cartee said. adding, "There is nothing the media likes better than showing politi­cians being hypocrites." 
Efforts to uncover personal misdeeds of politicians could test the public's appetite for such details, said Hobert Schmuhl, director of University of Notre Dame's program in journalism, ethics and democra­cy. 
"It is quite possible that the publir. will n~act nPgatiwly and say ·P nough is <~no ugh .... lw said. "Ev3en a tell-all cultun~ has to have limits." 

./ Used, rare and out-of-print books Initial cost of $2.!X' Nationally -circulated ad Success rate of 50'"/o Time required: 2 months 
ERASMUS BOOKS 

Open noon to six 

• Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne 
South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 

---~.__------~-------·~··­
. -------~--~----~ 
-~------­
Thursday, September 17, 1998 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page 7 



U.S. economy stable despite world woes 
As~ociarcd Press 
WASHINGTON 

Trnasury Secrntary Hobnrt Hubin and Fn<IP ral Hesn rvn Chairman AI an (;n~enspan tried to rnassurn Congress on Wednnsclay that economic turmoil sprnacling through much of the globe will not be allowed to derail the U.S. <H~onomy. 
(;n~nnspan laid to rest talk that a coordinatnd round of intl)ri)St rate cuts is imminent among major world pow­ers. hut hn opntwd the door even wider to a unilatnral cut in U.S. rates. 
"I just think it is not <:rndible to per­rnivn that wn can rnmain the oasis of prospnrity that we have marked the first four-session wining stroak since Wall Street went into its steep summer swoon. 
"Greenspan didn't give markets the immndiate prospect of lower rates some had hoped for, but he is continu­ing to lay the foundation for an easing clown the road," said Mark Zandi, 
economist  at  Regional  Financial  
Associates  in  West  Chester,  
Pennsylvania.  

Economists said it is highly unlikely tlw Fed will cut rates at its next meet­ing on Sept. 29 but said a rate reduc­tion at the Nov. 17 or Dec. 22 meetings a six-part plan Clinton unveiled in his New York speech. The strategy ineludes coordinated efforts to boost growth, continued prodding of Japan to deal with its worst recession in half a century and proposals to provide emer­gency loans if needed to Brazil and other Latin American countries whose stocks and currencies have come under increasing pressure after a botched devaluation of the Russian ruble. 
Heports have been circulating that the International Monetary Fund may be preparing to assemble up to $26 bil­lion in loan assistance for Brazil. 
Rubin, while confirming that 
been ... with the rest of the 
Brazilian authorities, told world und1)r increasing stress," BLE TO BELIEVE THAT WE CAN reporters it "would be prema­lw to I d t he II o u s e Ba n ki ng ture to comment on specifics."
REMAIN THE OASIS OF PROSPERI-
Committee. lie first expressed The anticipation of a coordi­that view in a Snpt. 4 spench TY THAT WE HAVE BEEN WITH THE nated round of rate cuts was that markets took as a signal of heightened when Clinton in his
RFST OF THE WORLD UNDER
possible ratn cuts down the Monday speech said that the road. INCREASING STRFSS.' world's major industrial pow­<in)<~nSJHtn also spoke of his ers should abandon fears of 
intense behind-the-scenes dis­cussions are under way with
'IJUST THINK IT IS NOT CREDI­
eorH:nrn that thn currency erisis lwgun 14 months ago in Asia is sprPading to other regions. 
"Deflationary forces are con­tinuing to nnwrge," lw said. 
Hubin stressed the sanw thnmes President Clinton rais<nl in a sp<HH:h Monday about a critical need for the United States as tho world's largest economy to play a major role in resolv­ing what Clinton ternwd the biggest thn)at to the global economy in 50 years. 
"Tiw rnst of the world looks to the Unit.ml States. as the world's inclispens­abln natitln, to show global lnadnrship at times like thnsn," Huhin said. 
Thn appParanc~hy tlw two men lift­l'd spirits on Wall Strtwl. Bond prices rallind on (;rnnnspan's rnmarks about potPntial dtdlation. and the Dow Jonns industrial avnrag<) ntHind the day up h!i .:{ 9 a t H . 0 X 9 . 7 X . T lw s to c k g a i n 
inflation and unite to spur ceo­ALAN GREENSPAN nomic growth. Fl!DERAI. RHERVI! CIIIIII!MIIN But in response to a question, 
is a growing possibility. 

"Clnarly the talk about deflation headed our way indicates he is biased toward cutting rates," said Paul Kasriel, economist at Northern Trust Co. in Chicago. 
By pushing a third of the globe's neonomies into steep recession, the Asian eeonomie erisis has depressed dnmand and prices for a number of commodities including oil. 
While economists usually view infla­tion as the bigger threat, falling prices for vital eommoditins such as farm products ean create major problems as wnll, raising the specter of a global slump illustrated at its worst in the Groat Onpression of thn 1930s. 
Hubin repeated the broad outlines of 
Greenspan said: "I can safely say that at the moment there is no endeavor to coordinate interest rate cuts." 
Greenspan focused his testimony on what developing countries must do to shore up their banking systems and provide better supervision to guard against risky lending in the future. He warned that any countries considering controls on the flow of foreign money would be making a mistake. 
Malaysia has already announced such controls, and Hussia is contem­plating them in light of the plunge in value of its ruble. Greenspan said such controls are difficult to remove once in place and mean that the availability of badly needed foreign capital shrinks significantly. 
Whitewater trial delayed for witnesses 
Associated Press 
SANTA MONICA 

The embezzlement trial for Whitewater figure Susan McDougal was suspended for one week to accommodate witnesses' schedules. And Mrs. McDougal was warned by the judge that she faces a contempt citation if she refuses to sit still dur­ing testimony. 
During the hearing Tuesday, Mrs. McDougal brought her fist loudly down onto the defense table and swirled nearly one full turn in her chair. 
"It's not acceptable to this court," Superior Court Judge Leslie Light said Wednesday. "If we have repeti­tion of that conduct, thert~'s going to be two possibilities." 
The first is to fine or jail Mrs. McDougal, Light said, and the sec­ond is to send her to a 
"listening room" where she can monitor tho proceedings but be sequestered from jurors. 
It was the third admonishment for Mrs. McDougal, who is accused of stealing $150,000 
from symphony conductor Zubin Mehta and his wife when she worked for thorn as a bookkeeper and personal assistant. In addition to embezzlement, Mrs. McDougal is charged with committing tax fraud from 1989 to 1992. 
Mrs. McDougal. 43, spent 18 months behind bars rather than tes­tify before the federal grand jury investigating President Clinton's involvement in Whitewater land 
· deal. 

THREE HUNDRED COMPANIES. ONE CHOICE• 
BUSINESS CAREER FORUM 
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1 7 
7 P.M. -10 P.M. 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18 
9:30 A.M. -4 P.M. 
C 0 BA (COLLIGI or BUSINUS ADMIHISTU.TIOK) 

HERE'S OUR CARD. TAKE SOME TIME AND CHECK US OUT AT THE CAREER FAIR. 
Trilogy is building the next great software company. Our goal is to become a $1 billion company before 2001. As a result of our growth objectives, the business opportunities for you are boundless. Depending on your interests, you can lead a business unit, pioneer a vertical industry, spin off a subsidiary, or launch a product 
line. At Trilogy, your options are unlimited. 
We urge you to learn more about the opportunities at Trilogy by visiting us at 
the Business Career Forum. 
On Campus Contact Anne Letzerich, anne.letzerich@trilogy.com 
TRILOGY 
6034 W. Courtyard Dr. Austin, TX 78730 t 512.425.3400 f 512.794.8900 
www. trilogy.com 

Trilogy is an equal opportunity emp\oyet. 
-----~-----­
page 8 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT. 
Thursday, September '17, 1998 
student union 






HAPPENINti§ 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 

Movie: A Perfect Murder. 09/17. Thursday. Cushing Auditorium. 1030PM. Tickets: $2. 09/18. Friday. Cushing Auditorium. 0800PM & 1030PM. 09/19. Saturday. Cushing Auditorium. 0800PM & 1 030PM. 
Acousticafe. 09/17. Thursday. LaFortune Huddle. 0900PM-1200AM. 
Campus Rock, Chapter One: Florida Evans and The Sampsons. 09/17. Thursday. Fieldhouse Mall. 0530PM-0800PM. Free Shirts and CD giveaways. 
HPC (HALL PRE§IDENT§' COUNCIL] 
SYRs. 09/18. Friday. Keenan, Zahm, PE, PW, Siegfried. 09/19. Saturday. Keough-Hall Wide, BP, Carroll, Knott. 
Formals. 09/18. Friday. Dillon, Morrissey. 
Keough: 1st Annual Chariot Race. 09/19. Saturday. McGlinn Fields. 0430PM. Free BBQ to follow. 
CCC (CLUB COORDINATION COUNCIL] 
AASA Lecture. 09/17. Thursday. 

NDCIBD (Notre Dame Council of International Business Development): Portfolio Management Challenge Sign-Ups. 09/17-18. Thursday-Friday. NOH & SOH. 0430PM-0700PM. Contact Jim Mcinerney or Dan Henn (x4716) with questions. Club Resource Center Grand Opening Tuesday, September 22nd 6-Bpm in the Club Resource Center, 3rd Floor of LaFortune Dinner will be included. 
CLASS OF i!OOO 
Golf Tournament. 09/20. Sunday. 

CLASS OF i!OOi! 

Freshman Hall Council. 09/21. Monday. Freshman Hall Council Reps' names must be turned into Nicole Borda in the Student Government office by 0800PM. Questions, call1-4556. 
Freshman Hall Council Reps Meeting. 09/23. Wednesday. Location: TBA. 0700PM. 

STUDENT liOVERNMENT 

Office Openhouse. 09/20. Sunday. Student Government Office. 0700PM-0900PM. 
Saferide. 631-9888. 09/17. Thursday. Where the Action Is. 1 OOOPM-0200AM. 09/18. Friday. Where the Action Is. 1 OOOPM-0300AM. 09/19. Saturday. Where the Action Is. 1 OOOPM-0300AM. 
'!""'­


Can be used with invisible tape as tattoos. [Submissions for next week's tattoos can be sent via campus mail to SUB, 201 LaFortune] 

eoeeooeeoeeoeeoooeoeeoeeooeeoeeoeeooeeoeeoeeooeeoeeoeeooeeo 
, ~ .... ,.,,.. ••-•·•~'" •• ..,_. 

-•• -.. ---.. ... • • .._ ..... -.-.......;..,. ......-·-......_ ........~--••--••·--•• -·-••• -· ....... -· 4 .... 
---~~----~----~~------·--------~-~--------------~-~­
----------------------------~,.--------------~--,------------­
Thursday, September 17, 1998 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
•ISRAEL 

Palestine, Israel consider summit with Clinton 
Associated Press 
TEL AVIV 

Isranli and Palestinian officials hinted Wndn1~sday at a willingnHss to hold a summit with Prnsidnnt Clinton later this month but avoidml pinning hopes for a 1wae1~ d1~al on any nwntings. 
Clinton was hoping to conduct tlw talks wlwn world leadt~rs gather in New York to att1md the opnning session of tlw United Nations (;ennral Assembly, according to a U.S. diplomatic official in Washington, who spok1~ on condition of anonymity. 
No U.S. invitation has been extended so far, said David Bar-lllan, a senior aidn to Israeli Prime MinisliH· Benjamin Nt~lanyahu. 
U.S. nnvoy Dennis Hoss presented the idl'a or a Sllllllllit to Palt~stinian leader 

NATO may be the answer for peace 
Associated Press 
WASIIINCTON 
l'rPsidnnt Clinton raist•d tlw 

possibility WPdnnsday of 
NATO intnrvnntion in Kosovo 
to halt a St~rh oiTt•nsivn and 
avt•rt a humanitarian disastnr 
in that Pmbattlnd Yugoslav 
provincf'. 
t\( a IWWS conf'tH"I'nt:O with Cznrh l'rt•sident Vaclav llavtoi. Clinton said tho "big problnm" for Kosovo is Yugoslav l'rnsidnnt Slobodan MilosPvif"'s rt~f'usal to givn its pPopln thl' autonomy to which llt• said tlwy arn tmtit!Pd. 
"Wt• don't want a rt~pnat of Bosnia," Clinton said. allud­ing to til war that claimed llundrPdS of" thousands of" lives oarlior this dncadn. Over tho past six months, more than 200.000 Kosovo Albanian have bonn forced from their homos by Yugoslav forces, and h noted that the humanitarian situation is bPcoming innnasingly prn­rarious as cold weather approaefws. 
"Wn arn doing PVI)rything wn ran to avert a humanitari­an disastnr." Clinton said. 
Vasser Araf'at during two hours of Bank in exchange for Palestinian mea­meetings Wednesday in Gaza City, said sures against militant groups such as 
a senior Palestinian official, who spoke on con­dition of anonymity. 
The official said the idea "was possi­ble." Ararat later told reporters that "everything was still under discussion." 
At issue is a 
U.S. proposal 

'THERE IS CLEARLY WORK TO BE DONE 
HERE, AND WE WANT TO PERSEVERE BECAUSE THE PURSUIT OF THIS IS CRITICAL, THE NEED TO CHANGE THE CLIMATE IS ESSEN­TIAL AND IT'S AN OBJECTIVE THAT WE NEED TO WORK VERY HARD TO ACHIEVE.' 
Dt'NNIS Ross 
U.S. ENVOY ON THE IDEA OF AN 
ISRAELI/PALESTINE PEACE SUMMIT 
Hamas, which has carried out deadly attacks against Israel. Ross has 
been trying to bring the sides to an agreement over the past week, but 
a P P are n t 1Y with little sue­cess. "There is clearly stiff 

for Israel to withdrawal its troops from work to be done. and we want to perse­an additional 13 percent of the West vere because the pursuit of this is criti­
cal, the need to change the climate is essential and it's an objective that we need to work very hard to achieve," Ross said after his meeting with Arafat. 
Fearing revenge attacks, Israel has been on high alert since its troops killed two llamas fugitives last week in a West Bank raid. 
The movement's spiritual leader, Sheik Ahmed Yassin, told The Associated Press on Wednesday that those who ordered the killings of the two brothers, Adel and fmad Awadallah, "should be afraid" for their safety. 
On Wednesday, Israel increased secu­rity at transportation drop-off points used by soldiers. 
It has also barred most Palestinians, even regular day laborers, from enter­ing Israeli cities. 
On the possibility of armed intorvention, Clinton said, "Wn're doing NATO planning and consulting with our allins." 
In addition, he said. the Unitnd Statns is atlnmpting to promote a peaceful settle­mont. 
Earlinr, State Department spokesman James Foley said thoro is "a growing sense of urgency" about NATO plan­ning and int:rnasing resolve among NATO nwmbers to act if the Kosovo situation deteri­orates J'u rther. 
"All options, inefuding the air option, are open," Fofny said. 
While diplomacy is the best solution, he said, NATO is prepare to use force if Milosovic "forces us to do so." 
Meanwhile,  House  
International  Helations  
Committee  Chairman  

Benjamin Gilman of New York urged the administra­tion to begin immediate dis­cussions with NATO on deliv­ering an ultimatum to Milosevic to cease all military attacks in Kosovo or "fact~ military action by NATO." 


. 


Got news? Calll--5323. 

One out of six college women will be sexually assaulted this year. But you can change the odds of it happening. 
Join Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination (CARE) 
A Mandatory Training Session will take place Sunday, September 20 from 1 pm-5 pm in McGlinn Hall Lounge. 
Questions, call Lori at 284-5187 or James at 634-1539. 
. 
.,~ 
> 
0 
u 
~ 
0 

• GUATEMALA 
Gerardi's body to be exhumed 
Associated Press 
GUATEMAI.A CITY 

The body of slain Archbishop Juan Gerardi will be exhumnd on Thursday to try to deter­mine if he had been bitten by a dog belonging to the priest jailed for the crime. 
Judge Isaias Figueroa Medina said Wednesday that he had ordered the exhumation. 
The Homan Catholic arch­bishop was clubbed to death on April 26, two days after he delivered a church-sponsored human rights report blaming the military and pro-govern­ment death squads for most of the deaths during Guatemala's 36-year civil war, which ended in 1996. 
The exhumation may be key in determining whether Gerardi was killed by a fellow priest, Hev. Mario Orantes Najera, as prosecutors charge, or by those angered by his human rights work. 
Orantcs lived in Gerardi's residence at the time of the killing and owns a dog that reportedly responded only to his command. Spanish experts said they saw evidence of bite marks in photographs of Gerardi's body. 
Innovate . 


I 
At Abbott Laboratories, everything we do is directed toward one goal: to improve lives. In fact, since 1888, Abbott has been producing innovative health care products and services that have been improving people's lives worldwide. And, with more than 54,000 dedicated employees and a presence m more than 130 countnes: our products and services are as diverse as those creatmg them. Our employees contr~bute a wide variety of opinions, perspectives, backgrounds, •nd expenences. Yet _they l 
share a common objective: the desire to make a difference. From pharmac~uticals and diagnostics to nutritionals and hospital-related products, our vaned busmesses have been making a significant difference in the health care mdustry and 1n people's lives. With annual sales at $12 billion and one of the best long-term fmancial performance records in the corporate world, we intend to continue providing quality health care products far into the future. 
You too, can make a difference with a career at Abbott Laboratories. We are seeking talented students in the followin_g disci~lines: Research & Deve~opm~nt, Production/Operations, Sales & Marketmg!Busmess Development, Engmeerang, Information Technology, Finance and Accounting/Business, and Human Resources. 
Make a difference in the world. Join the team dedicated to improving lives. 
a 
ABBOTT LABORATORIES Du•ky Huldl C.re Wart..,.... 

www.abbott.com Abbott will be at the MBA/Undergrad Career Fair on 9/17 and Industry Day on 9/23. Students unable to meet with Abbott at these events may e-mail a resume to: www.abbott.com/career. Equal Opportunity Employer. 
-·---~r-o......._P""_,.. 




VIEWPOINT 
page 10 os~ERVER ----------------Thursday, September 17, 1998 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Reinrhaler Kyle Carlin 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Heather MacKenzie 

NEWS EDITOR.... ..Michelle Krupa ADVERTISING MANAGER ..... Kerry McPartlin VIEWPOINT EDITOR ................. Eduardo Liull An DESIGN MANAGER ....................... Brett Huelar SPORTS EDITOR... . . .... Kathleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER..... Michael Brouiller SCENE EDITORS........................... Sarah Dylag CONTROLLER.... ..........................Dave Rogero 
Krisri Klitsch WEB ADMINISTRATOR .................. Jennifer Breslow SAINT MARY'S EDITOR .......M. Shannon Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR ...............................Pere Cildla PHOTO EDITOR .......................Kevin Dalum 
The Observer is rhe independent nL-wspaper published by rhe srudents ofthe University ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Ir does nor OCCCS.'iarily reflect the policies of the administration or either institution. The news is reponed as accurarely and objectively as possible. Unsigned edirorial.s represent the opinion of rhe majority ofrhe 
Ediwr-in-Chief. Managing E'.diror, Assistant Managing Ednor and depanmem editors. Comtnentarit-s, letters and columns prc:scnc che viCW"S of chc ;mrhors, and noc necessarily chose of The Observer. Viewpoinr space is avail:1ble co all 
members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and ro all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions 
rhrough letters is encouraged. 

Contacting The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Assistant ME 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Sports 63 I -4543 Fax 631-6927 Scene//Sainr Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu Office Manager/General Information 631-7471 News E-Mail observer .obsnews. I @nd.edu 

• FoR A MoRE Jusr AND HuMANE Wom.o 
As Learning Turns Service to Justice: Mission Impossible? 
Over the summer, I visited Nikolas Green, ND '01, a few times at St. Agatha's Parish on the west side (North Lawndale) of Chicago. As an African American Leadership intern, Niek was 
Don McNeill, 


c.s.c. 
challenged daily. He spoke passionately about his encounters with poverty and hopeful signs of empowerment. Nick experieneed connections between prayer, social justice and Sunday litur­gies. In an active way, Nick was living out a core component of the mission of the Center for Social Concerns: "calling us all to snrvice and action for a more just and humane world." 
Conversations with Nick and Notre Dame alumni!ae about topies of' peace and justice led me to wonder, "How can more conversations like these take place on campus and among Notre Dame constituents nationally and internationally?" Part of our university mission states, "The aim is to create a sense of human solidarity and concern for the common good that will bear fruit as learning becomes service to justice." How can these words chal­lenge our passions and engage our imaginations? 
In order to extend these conversa­tions further. I am grateful to initiate, with Center colleagues, a new series of bi-monthly Observer Viewpoint reflec­tions. I hope these will spark conversa­tions about social concerns and chal­lenges for further reflection and action. This column often will include voices of students. faculty, alumnilae, and staff who experience a passion for a "most just and humane world." 

Let me introduce myself. My name is Don McNeill, C.S.C. I am the director of the CSC, a member of the Department of Theology, and a resident in McGlinn Hall. My passion for experiential and service learning was ignited during my senior year by Professor Frank O'Malley and in the months after grad­uation by taking a course given by Viktor Frankl (in Vienna) and by later experiencing intense poverty in Calcutta, India. These and other encounters eventually called and led me to Holy Cross. I continue today to be challenged by the questions and imagi­nation of thousands of students and alumnilae who have participated in Summer Service Projects, Urban Plunges, Appalachia seminars, etc. The esc itself became a reality 15 years ago thanks to student-driven imagina­tion, initiatives and leadership. 
Current students continue to raise questions about life, service and jus­tiee. As part of an excellent teaching team, I am teaching and learning this semester in a Theology seminar. We are accompanying 28 students who returned from their Summer Service Projects (SSP) with many enriching experiencns of joy and sorrow as well as questions about the need for a more humane and just world. I want to share with you important questions, insights and challnnges that Nick and another student faced this summer and contin­ue to explore. 
Nick credits Father Mike Ivers and the St. Agatha community and experi­ences for helping him develop an intense passion for justice. The Gospel and words of Nelson Mandela came to life for Nick during his SSP. Mandela stated in his inaugural speech, "As we are liberated from our own fear, our presence automatically liberates oth­ers." Nick experienced liberation him­self. "Mandela's speech summarizes the grnatest part of what I took away from my experience this summer. I have become empowered, not unlike the people of St. Agatha's and North Lawndale. One of the many things that Father Mike taught me about leader­ship is that a leader must allow others to lead, give them power. His goal is to make St. Agatha's a parish of the peo­ple, by the people; therefore, regard­less of his presence, St. Agatha will continue to function as it currently does ... I think that I was exposed to a brand new side of the C~tholic Church 
Cynthia Vega, ND '00, is a junior ser­vice pre-professional student. In 
I
HOPE THIS REGULAR 
COLUMN WILL BE ONE 
WAY TO EXPLORE AND Dis­
CUSS THE ISSUFS, CHAL­
LENGFS AND CONTROVERSIFS 
AROUND 'CREATING A MORE 
JUST AND HUMANE WORLD.' 

reflecting on the background Cynthia brought to her International Summer Service Learning Project in Guarjila, El Salvador, she stated: "My family is from El Salvador and I had been there before. But I had never been to this area. It made me opnn my eyes and realize that there were a lot of things I didn't know about." 
Cynthia lived and worked in Guarjila with mentor John Giuliano. She taught math and dance and conducted a health study. She described her project this way: "This project focused on building relationships with people who have suffered and are still suffering due to the injustices which were a cause for a civil war, and which still exist today. My work with the people of the community gave me the opportuni­ty to learn each person's story. Living in their world has caused me to open my eyes to the reality of injustice in this world." Later she added, "I guess I've just learned a lot this summer and have realized that social service with­out social action will get us nowhere. I still want to know so much." 
Often students feel there aren't oth­ers in our Notre Dame community who are interested in hearing these ques­tions or helping them explore how best to respond to the multiple feelings, complex relations and intellectually stimulating perspectives they encoun­tered. Likewise, there are so many community teachers like Father Mike Ivers and John Giuliano who are part of Notre Dame through their challenges and commitments to the students dur­ing the summers. Ilow can other facul­ty and staff on camp_1ls also explore ways of integrating the journeys and questions of students into ongoing con­versations with other persons who share a common spirit of questioning and searching for truth and justice? 
I hope this rogular column will be one way to explore and discuss the issues, challenges and controversies around "creating a more just and humane world." Please contact the Center for Social Concerns at ND.NDC­NTRSC.l@ND.EDU with any ideas, questions, comments or suggestions for this column. 
Through such conversations, I believe that the mission of the University of Notre Dame and the Center for Social Concerns is not impossible, but possi­ble. Together. let's explore how to make the words in these mission stato­ments become reality. 
Father Don McNeill, C.S.C.. is the director of the Center for Social Concerns. The Center for Social Concerns' column runs every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer . 
• DOONESBURY 
ZIPP&R, I CAN'T 
8e/.ltV5.ZONK£1< 
HARRI!3 1!3 YOUR UNCle.' THAT!i JU!3T SO M.%A­
AMAZING/ 
""' 

HW CG11.e 
YatKNOtu 
SOMUCH AeaJTHIM 
CRICI<ET?' 
\ 
-... ./:1\,ill'l 
MYPA/?5 AN AWMNUS. l'Vf' H~ARPA!KJU7 ZONK/3!< FOR 
~!3/ A!31< M~ ANYTHING 
Af30l/T HIM, 

\ .ANYTHING.' 
\ 
HMM... QICt1 Y, teTM£ S/3t3 ... 
I 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
NHeN 1972 7V 1979. NA!3H6 C'MON,GIV!5 
SOPHOMORe /Yf£A HARtl 5/..UMPr ON~. 
I 
• QuoTE OF THE DAY 

'The ultimate measure 
of a man is not where 
he stands in moments of 
comfort or convenience, 
but where he stands at 
times of challenge and con­
troversy.' 

-Martin Luther King, Jr. 


VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, September 17, 1998 -----------------os~ERvER ----------------------------------------------page]] 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Vinck sPosition Confusing 
"ISophin hn·tin and .Jennifer Weaver I tried to rnako Llw case that conservatives implicitly sup­port abortion through upholding a capitalist eco­nomic systmn. Even if true, which it is not, this argument still portrays conservatives in a better light than liberals who explicitly support and fadlitaw abortion. ("Not Peaee. But Tho Sword," Soan Vinrk, Tlw Observer. Sept. 15)." 
Wnll, Soan. l1~t nw posP a question to you. Is it bolter, tlwn. to underhandedly support the very praelieo that conservatives aro supposedly against'? In my view, coming out and oponly voie­ing your true motives is significantly more eoura­goous and loss eowardly than subtly giving your support to tho other sido. If one has to rely on implidty rathor than explieity, it seems to show that lli1P is afraid to voice one's own, truo opin­ions. Good job on supporting your eauso. 
In fa1:t. Sean. you se1~m to be undermining your own viows all over tho place. You give 1~xamples of third-world countrios as plaeos where "the rights of tlw dd!msel!~ss are stripped away for tho eonvoninnee of society on the whoI!~." I com­pl!~t!'.ly agree with you. The practiee of sweeping tho vulnerablo undrr a metaphorieal earpet for tho eomfort of the rest of society is horrible and sad. So, S1~an. tell me: why, then, do you not stand up for your boliofs and light for gay, les­bian. and bisexual rights at Notre Dame and across tho world'!"'Why do you not urge the administration to support the WHC in its quest? Tlwse groups (gays. losbians. bisexuals, and womon} are constantly swept under the carpet at Llw Univln·sity of Notre Dame, and why is that? I can Pasily answ1~r in your own words: "for the 1:onvnninnce of soeiety on the whole," a praetiee that you yourself viow as injustice. So, I'll see you at tlw next rally for gay rights, then? Or maybe tlw nnxt WHC meeting? Don't be shy, Sean, stand up for what you believe. 
Well, Mr. Vinck. you may say that the "left is going crazy," and that liberals argue with "dubi­ous intellectual merit." but before you start pointing lingnrs. maybe you should take a look at your own argumnnts. You may find that you arc on our side. after all. If conservative ideology is tlw way you have presented it, then we don't n1wd to hold rallins or write lettl-ll'S or editorials. We only rwed consnrvatives like you. 
To tlw nwmbers of !'SA and tlw WHC. keep on lighting. We 111wd morn people like you. And to The OhserV!~r. giving Sean Vinek his own eolumn is tlw lwst thing you have ever done for the left. Thank you for that. 
Jocelyn Szczepaniak-Gillece Junior, Walsh Hall September 15, 1998 
• lETIER TO THE EDITOR 

Statistical Data Should Back up Claims 
A recent publieation distributed on campus madt> th{• claim that "After only two years here, Father Michael Baxter is already the most popu­lar undtlrgrad uate theology professor hen~." While the Department of Theology is very pleased with the responses that most under­graduatos givn to ProfflSSor Baxter's "A Faith to Die For" dass, as a statistical claim, this one is false. Hegardless of whether one assesses TCE's, or the numbet' of students who are able to takn tho course, or tho number of students who attl-lmpt to enter it al'ter it is closed, TIIEO 268 is not nt the top ol' the Department's lists. This might be a good time to remind evt~ryone that statistical claims need to be verified before being made public. 
Kern R. Trembath Assimnt Chairman Deparrmem of Theology 

Vinck sAttack on Liberals Full of Half-truths and Misrepresentations 
This letter is in response to Sean Vinck's column from Sept. 15, in which he decries the left for utiliz­ing shallow defenses. lie states that "the arguments of the Left are usually of dubious intellectual merit." But the evidonce that he proposes to support this claim is in actuality dubious, and in some cases non-existent, as I shall dis­cuss below. 
To begin, Vinck claims that the emphasis of his tirado is against the radical Left. In reality, his tirade is against the Left in gener­al. for he says. "the left is going crazy, and it's fine with me." lie also says that the extreme views of the radical left "have alienated themselves from the mainstream of society." Correct me if I am wrong, but to be outside of the main­stream is the definition of a radi­cal. These "radicals" were never in the mainstream to begin with. The point of my argument on this mat­ter is that to make a case against the far-left may not be too difficult, but one should at least 
understand basic defini­and, in my humble 
tions if one is to present a opinion, it is some­
comprehensible case. Vinck thing about which 
does not understand that. reasonable, intelli­
The next point that must gent people cannot be addressed is Vinck's dis­disagree. You may cussion of "evil practices" not approve of his occurring at this university. private behavior, but In his column. he implies it is exactly that ­that people sueh as private. Professor Manier and oth­One final objection ers who defend the option to Vinck's column is of abortion are far out of his assertion that the mainstream. lie sug­Clinton is "the visi­gests that those who are ble leader of pro-choice are somehow Democratic leftism radical. The acceptance of ... " Clinton is NOT a abortion, however, is a liberal. At best, he is characterization of most a tenuous centrist. liberals generally, not of The left in this coun­just radical leftists restric­try is sadly weak tively. And any poll that currently, and has aecurately characterized been for some time. the opinions of society The real leader of would show that being pro­leftism in this coun­choice is far from radical. try is hard to pin­To purport otherwise is asi­point. However. nine. As for "evil practices" there an~ many occurring here -namely prominent hoodlums referrals for abortions -of far-right (really that is simply a matter of Fascist) politics. opinion. One side believes These people abortions should not be include Pat legal, the other believes Hobertson, Hiehard they should. I will not Mellon Scaife. Dan debate this issue here, only Burton, and many will I say that this phrase others. People who does not help in proving l'eol tlw nend to leg­that leftists or radical left­islate morality and ists have misguided notions; !'oren their beliefs on it simply characterizes one us all are the real 
man's opinion on the sub­jed of abortion. 

Now I turn to the Capitalism issue. Socialist or Communist beliefs are not prerequisites for lib­erals. However. Vinck states that in many eommunist nations (he cites Cambodia, Cuba. and China) the people are oppressed. This is most certainly true. But the reason for these conditions is more directly a result of the far right-wing govern­ments of those nations than it is the economic system employed (which is what Communism is-it is not a political system). I will refrain from claiming that the eco­nomic system plays no role in determining the level of freedom in a given country, because that would be ludicrous. I am not well versed in this area, but all that I am trying to say is that the type of government in place, its political system versus its economic system,
.. ' 
... .. 

is the biggest factor in determining the amount of freedom afforded to a nation's citizens. Vinck's argu­ment on this matter is thus off tar­get. Instead of decrying an eco­nomic system, he needs to examine the political system. However, he will find that all of these nations have far-right governments (or, conversely, anarchy). This is not something Vinck would probably like to admit, so he overlooks this fact. This is not to suggest only right-wingers overlook facts that undermine their beliefs. I only want to point this out to show how his statement is misleading. 
Finally, we come to the Clinton/Starr issue. Vinck states that "For years, society has been told that character doesn't matter in our political leaders ... " Society has not been told this -it is what a majority of society has decided for itself. Vinck then asks, "why is Clinton apologizing?" That is exactly the point. He shouldn't have to apologize for an incident 
that in no way affects. and certain­ly doesn't undermine, the constitu­tion. 
It is important to recall how this media scandal came about. The virulent Clinton-hater and book agent Ludanne Goldberg conspired with Linda Tripp to get a book out about Clinton's sexual affairs. It then became evident to these two women that Ken Starr would be willing to peek into Clinton's bed­room (or the Oval Oflice hallway) in order to get "dirt" on the presi­dent since he could lind no evi­dence of wrongdoing-in three years of work -in any of his other tenuous investigations. This became a vendetta to embarrass Clinton. For this purpose, Tripp illegally recorded phone conversa­tions with Monica Lewinsky. Orlando Patterson of Harvard wrote in the New York Times "the 
.. 

President's legalistic definition of sex is justified by the equally trans­parent disingenuousness of Mr. Starr's tactic of using Mr. Clinton's relationship with Monica Lewinsky as a way of trapping him in a false­hood." This is the essence of the Clinton/Starr affair-that it "smacks of prosecutorial zealotry," as Patterson writes. Furthermore, impeachment-which is simply to be charged with committing a crime-is not a punishment for misdeeds by an offieial. It is a con­stitutional measure designed to ensure that further damage is not done to the government or consti­tution. It thus implies that "high crimes and misdemeanors" refers to actions that threaten to subvert the constitution. Lying, or at least equivocating about a sexual affair is obviously nowhere near the requirement for impeachment. Starr's report to Congress is noth­ing more than pornography pack­aged as evidence of serious consti­tutional tinkering by the President. 
This is ludicrous, 

threat to constitu­tional democraey in this country, not a cheating husband. 
As a devout Leftist, I hate to sen my position weakened by a com­pelling argument from the Hight. However, it makes me uneasy to see any intelligent person resort to half-truths and misrepresentations to further one's cause, whether I agree with that eause or not. Snan Vinck's column does this, and in the process, reveals more about his convictions than those he is trying to rebuke. 
Paul A. Ranogajec Freshman, Morrissey Manor September IS. 1998 

pagel2---------------------------------------------------OBSERVER ---------------------------Thursday, September 17, 1998 


Lafayette Square Townhomes 
Location: 424 North Francis, South Bend, IN. 46617 Telephone: 234-9923 How Many Spaces: 30 townhomes, four-and five-bedroom units Cost: Four-bedroom: $940/month 
Five-bedroom: $ 1155/month 
One extra person can be added to a unit for an extra $100 a month Leases: 10-month lease (Aug. 1-May 31) Parking: 2 spots are reserved for each townhouse. Additional parking 
on the street. Utilities: No utilities included in monthly rent (gas, heat, electric and water). Perks: Washer/dryer units in each townhouse, large kitchen and 
security system Pros: Three floors, very neighbor-friendly complex Cons: Not enough parking, not located in the safest neighborhood Applications: Already full for Fall 1999 
Campus View Apartments 
Location: 1801 Irish Way, South Bend, IN, 46617 Telephone: 272-1441 Cost: $699/month for student lease 
$700/month for full year lease 
Leases: 2-b:droom apartments Student lease -9 1/2 months Full year-12 months 
Parking: First come, first serve, but there is plenty of parking for all 
residents. Utilities: Included with rent. Perks: Apartment includes dinette, couch, lounge chair, and a bed and 
desk for each student Pros: Located close to campus and Martin's supermarket. Cons: Strict party and social gathering policies. Applications: Will begin accepting applications in mid-October 
and expect most spots to fill up in the fall. 



Castle Point Apartments 
Location: 18011 Cleveland Hoad, South Bend, IN, 46617 Telephone: 272-8110 How Many Spaces: 740 apartments (efficiencies, 1-bedroom. 2­
bedroom, 2 bedroom with loft, 2-bedroom with loft and den) Cost: $457/month-$797 month Leases: 1-month, 2-month, 3-month, 6-month, 9 -month and 12-month Parking: Plenty of parking (car ports can be rented for $20/month) Utitilies: Water included in rent (residents pay electric heat). Perks: Outdoor swimming pool, racquetball courts, club house, indoor 
basketball, tennis and volleyball courts, pool tables, fitness center 
and whirlpool. Pros :Many perks and flexibility of leases. Cons: Located further from campus than other complexes and not as 
many student residents as other complexes. Applications: Currently taking applications for 1999. 



College Park 
Location: 18039 Bulla Road, South Bend, IN, 46617 
Telephone: 272-0691 
Cost: 1-2 people, lower level $760/month 1-2 people, upper level $785/month 3-4 people, lower level $870/month 3-4 people, upper level $895/month 
Leases: All 2 bedroom apartments with 12 month leases 
Parking: Enough for all residents, closed to non-residents on football Saturdays. Utilities: Not included in monthly rent. Perks: 2 bathrooms, hardwood floors. ProS: Washer/dryer units in each apartment, high ceilings in upper 
level apartments. 
Cons: Quieter, stricter party/social gathering policies. 
Applications: Currently accepting applications for 1999. 
Houses (this is only one example of the many different options in South Bend) 
Location: Varins d1~1JP11ding on your personal choke. Check local rwwspajwrs for ads. Popular areas include Marion Street, St. l'nte Strnet and St. Louis Street. 
Cost: Approximately $1200 for a 4 person house. 
Lea.•o;es: dnpnnds on owner. Some houses have special 10 month student leases (Aug. -May). Parking: Minimal parking at most houses. Plan on parking in the street. Utilities: Not ineludnd in monthly rent. Pros: Morn spacn than an apartment. Cons: Sornn housns are IOl~ated in neighborhoods which are considered unsafe. 
Applications: Start looking in newspapers now. 



Turtle Creek Apartments 
Location: 171 oTurtle Creek Drive, South Bend, IN, 46637 
Telephone: 272-8124 
How Many Spaces: 192 apartments, 66 townhomes. 
Cost: Rent for 1999-2000 year unavailable. 
Leases: Student-10 lease (Aug-May) or 12 month lease. 
Parking: One reserved spot for each unit, additional parking in complex and on street. 
Utilities: No utilities inducted (electric, heat and water.) 
Perks: On-site laundry facility, outdoor pool and sand volleyball. 
Pros: Close to campus (2 blocks), mostly student residents. 
Cons: Congested parking, sometimes too "party-friendly." 
Applications: Applications for 1999-2000 could be available as soon as Oct. 1. 
-
.... 


----~--­
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, September 17, 1998 
Associated Press  ninth inning of the first game  locker  room  at  Qualcomm  
SAN DIEGO Sammy Sosa tied Mark McGwire in grand style.  of a doubleheader Tuesday night. Sosa hit the third grand slam of his career, all of them  Stadium, but wanted a change of scenery after striking out four times Monday night and twice while going 1-for-5 on  
Sosa hit his 63rd home run,  Tuesday.  
a  tie breaking grand slam in  He said he spoke with his  
the eighth inning Wednesday  'DON'T GO  -YOU HAVE  mother by telephone from the  
night for the Chicago Cubs against San Diego. With flashbulbs popping and  ANY MORE QUES­TIONS? ..•• I KNOW: WHAT  Dominican Republic on Tuesday night and she told him: "It's OK. Don't worry.  
most of the crowd of 49,891  DID MARK McGWIRE DO  Tomorrow is another day. Be  
on its feet. Sosa drove pitch pitch from  a 1-0 Brian  TODAY?  DID HE GET 64?  patient. Take your time." When reporters ran out of  
Boehringer 434 feet into the  questions. Sosa said: "Don't go  
second deck in left field make it 6-2.  to  SAMMYSOSA  -you have any tions?"  more  ques­ 
Sosa and McGwire, tied for  this season.  Someone asked Sosa what  
the most home runs in  a sea­ It was Sosa's 22nd  career  question he might have for the  
son.  each have nine games  homer against the Padres, the  media.  He  thought  for  a  
left. Sosa had tied McGwire at 62  most against any opponent. He went 1-for-9 with six  minute, looking up at the sky at one point, and said: "I know  
Sunday when he connected  strikeouts in the first  two  -what did Mark McGwire do  
twice in  a  stunning perfor­ games  of  this  four-game  today? Did he get 64?"  
mance  at Wrigley Field. That  series.  He didn't,  so  the two  are  
gave him four homers in three  Before the game, Sosa was  tied. Sosa will have a chance  
days.  relaxed  as  he  met with the  to jump ahead on Thursday  KAT  
McGwire went back ahead  media on  the field.  He had  when he faces rookie Stan  Chicago Cubs slugger Sammy Sosa tied Mark McGwire last night for  
when he hit his 63rd when he  been holding pre-game  news  Spencer. The Cardinals are off  the major league lead in homers, as well as the all-time season record.  
pinch-hit for the Cardinals in  conferences in the Chargers'  Thursday.  


• MAJOR Lr:AGUf Bt\SHHU.L 





Slammin' Sammy ties up race 
Hundley homer keeps New York within half-game 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON This series couldn't have ended any other way. 
Pinch-hitter Todd Hundley homered with two outs in the 11th inning Wednesday night to give the New York Mets a 4-3 win over the Houston Astros, concluding four games full of late drama. 

-
Mike Piazza hit a three-run homer with two outs in the ninth that put the Mets ahead 3-2, but Brad Ausmus homered with one out in the bottom half and sent the teams to extra innings for the third time in three days. 

The Mets began the day a half­game behind Chicago in the NL wild-card race. The Cubs played later at San Diego. 
New York won three of four from the NL Central champions. In each game, the Mets hit a home run in the eighth or ninth inning that either tied the score or put them ahead. 
The Astros almost won it in the lOth. Mets reliever Greg McMichael walked the bases loaded with two outs, but came back from a 3-0 count to strike out Ricky Gutierrez. 
Hundley, a former All-Star catcher who missed most of the season because of elbow surgery, recently rejoined the Mets after a failed experiment playing left field. He came back primarily to pinch-hit and rest Piazza. 
With Piazza on deck. Hundley delivered his biggest hit of the season. On a 2-1 count, he hit a 94 mph fastball from Sean Bergman (12-9) over the center­field fence for his third home run of the season. 
McMichael (5-4) wound up with the win and Turk Wendell struck out the side in the 11th for his fourth save. Bergman lost in his first relief appearance of the season. 
Piazza, acquired in midseason to help push the Mets into the playoffs. is doing just that down the stretch. In September, the All-Star catcher is 22-for-53 (.415) with six home runs and 17 HBis. 
Mike Hampton blanked the Mets on eight hits for eight innings, and Billy Wagner took over to start the ninth. Pinch-hit­ter Todd Pratt led off with a sin­gle and John Olerud singled with two outs for his fourth hit. 
The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. ar rhe Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day dassi­
Classifieds fieds is 3p.m. All classifieds musr be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day. including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES 
ASIAN ALLURE! INFO MEETING 
When? THIS SAT Time? 2pm Where? Foster Room 3rd floor Lafortune 
NEED A JOB? The Food Service Support Facility is looking for student employees. Flexible hours to fit your schedule 6 AM to midnight. $5.95/hr. Call 1­5417 MWF b/w 2-4 or T/Th b/w 11-1. 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center We're Open A Lot!!! Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight Fri: 7:30 am -7:00 pm Sat: Noon -6:00 pm Sun: Noon -Midnight When you need copies. we're open! 
Early Spring Break Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise!6 Days $279!1ncludes most meals! Awesome Beaches.Nightlife!Departs From Florida!Cancun & Jamaica Air,Hotei,Meals &Parties $339!Panama City Room With Kitchen,? Free Parties $129!Daytona Room With Kitchen $149!1998 BBB Award Winner!springbreaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 


WANTED 
ABSOLUTE SPRING BREAK ... 
"TAKE 2" 2 FREE TRIPS ON ONLY 15 SALES and ... EARN $$$$. Jamaica,Cancun,Bahamas,Fiorida, Padre! Lowest prices!Free Meals. Parties & Drinks. ""Limited Offer··. 1800-426­771 O/www.sunsplashtours.com 
I'm looking tor 2 "Irish Comfort" t­shirts for me and my dad. If you sell them or have a few extra, please help me out. Call Michelle at 4­
0562. 

Female Grad student looking for Rmmt. Castle Point Apt rent & exps aprox 325 mo. 277-3664 
Mentor/tutor wanted for 14 yr. old hearing-impaired girl. She wears hearing aids & reads lips. Would prefer female hearing-impaired tutor/mentor, but will consider all. Call 272-8235 or email­buslink@ sprynet.com. 
Tutor for I USB college soph Physics & calculus. Student likes to work ahead and can come to you. Call 272-8235 or email­buslink@ sprynet.com. 
Tutor for home-schooled, high school senior. Subjects-Govt, Econ, Eng gram mer & comp. Pcefer male tutor. but will consider all. Student can come to you days/evenings.Call 272-8235 or email-buslink@ sprynet.com. 
I AM LOOKING FOR A GUITAR! preferably acoustic. but just in good condition. call me at x2276 
ND Prof and spouse seeking turn. 
place, Nov-Dec '98;near campus 
pref.Tel/fax 403-885­
4136,D.Bergen 
DUNGARVIN INDIANA OFFERS A TREMENDOUS OPPORTUNITY TO SUPPLEMENT YOUR INCOME We are an organization committed to responding to the choices of peo­ple with developmental disabilities, and respecting those choices. We do this by providing habilitation training and respite care. We offer a unique training program designed for compliance and quatity.We will train all of those who have the heart and desire for this type of social service,a nd meet the minimum entry requirements. 
We have a service site near you, 
and offer a variety of schedules 
which may accomodate a student's 
schedule favorably.Our positions 
start at $8.50 per hour and there 
are many benefit options. 
Dungarvin has career options within the company, as we provide ser­vices throughout the U.S.If you 
would like more information,call our Employment lnfoline at 888-297­8582. 
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED 

The Early Childhood Development Center, located at Saint Mary's College and the University of Notre Dame, is looking for volunteers who enjoy young children. If you would be interested in spending 2 hours a week reading children's books, building with blocks, and singing songs with children, please call Cindy Hestad at 284-4693 (ECDC­SMC) or Thayer Kramer at 631­3344 
(ECDC-ND). Please join our fun filled days. 
SPRING BREAK '99! Cancun'Nassau· Jamaica'Mazatlan 
•Acapulco'Bahamas Cruise'Fiorida'South Padre Travel Free and make lots of Cash!Top reps are offered full-time staff jobs. Lowest price Guaranteed.Call now for details! www.classtravel.com 800/838-6411 

FOR RENT 

1,2,3,4,5 BDRM HOMES. NEAR 
CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW GILLIS PROPERTIES.272-6551 
That Pretty Place, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds.5 Rooms with private baths,$80­$115,Middlebury,30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit # 1 07,1-800­418-9487. 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR 
ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE 
TO CAMPUS. 243-0658. 

BED AND BREAKFAST, FOOT­
BALL WEEKENDS,NEAR CAM­
PUS. 
219-277-6832. 

BED AND BREAKFAST, FOOT­
BALL WEEKENDS,NEAR CAM­
PUS. 
219-277-6832. 

BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
info: 

http://Business.michiana.org/bnbre 
g 219-291-7153. 
THE PRIMROSE PATH BED AND BREAKFAST-LOCATED 15 MINUTES NORTH OF CAM­PUS HAS OPENINGS FOR FOOT­BALL WEEKENDS.LOVEL Y HIS­TORIC INN,FULL ELEGANT BREAKFASTS.4 GUEST ROOMS,AIC,CABLE TV.2 NIGHTS REQUIRED.$99.00 Call 616-695­6321 
913 LAWRENCE 3 BED GARAGE BASEMENT 
LARGE YD WALK TO CAMPUS 575 MO 500 DEP. 
FACULTY OR STAFF 232-2595 


FOR SALE 
BIKE & U-LOCK 10spd, gd shape 
Both: $50/Best 257-1783 
Twin Mattress, Boxspring, and 
Frame for sale. Good Condition. 
$50. 
Call Pat 243-5354 
WHY PAY RENT? Grad students, faculty-3-bedrm ranch. 10 min. to ND. Move-in condition. $42,500. 232-8340 


TICKETS 
DO YOU NEED 2 PURDUE GAs 
??? 
best offer 
CALL BRIAN @ 243-2623 
I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME 
GAMES.272-6306 
TICKETMART Inc BUY-SELL-TRADE Notre Dame Football Tickets 258-1111 No student tickets please 
FOR SALE 
FOOTBALL TICKETS 
271-9412 WANTED ND FOOTBALL TICKETS 271-1526 

NO Footbaii-Buy-Seii.Seasonal and Individual Game Tickets. GA-only 674-7645 
ND Football Tickets Needed. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 
ND FOOTBALL TIX 
FOR SALE AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 
Always buying and selling N D foot­ball tickets. 289-8048 
Need 5 Purdue GAs Call x3501 Eric 
I need 1 Navy Tix 634-1841 
I need 2 tickets (GA or student) for Stanford (Oct. 2) for my baby broth­er and his friend (a prospective). If you can help me, please call 4­0562. Ask for Michelle. 
I Need ASU TIX 
243-2934 
BUYING N.D. TICKETS ALL GAMES... 277-1659 
FOR SALE N.D. TICKETS ALL GAMES 272-7233 .......... . 
Trade me -my 2 Purdue Tickets for our 2 Stanford tickets. Call 1978 

PERSONAL 

SPRING BREAK-PLAN NOW! Cancun,Jamaica,Mazatlan,& S.Padre.Early bird savings until Oct. 31st.America's best prices and packages. Campus sales reps want ed.Earn free trips+ cash. 
1.800.SURFS.UP 
xzwww .studentexpress.com 
FAX IT FAST!!! 
Sending & Receiving 
at 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 
FAX IT FAST!!! 
DO YOU LIKE TO PLAY SNOOK­ER? (just for fun, of course). Call 683-9856, 6PM to 10PM 
WELCOME FRESHMAN KATIE BARKLEY 
$6 Haircuts VITO'S BARBER SHOP 1523 Lincolnway West Closed Sun & Wed 
M-T-Th-Fr-8-4 Sat 8-3 
Alms and Zoo: You guys only have 34 more days. Feel bad for me, the young one. xoxo OJ 
Hi, My Name is Chris. Chris L. My room is GREAT! Come see my room. 
Help Wanted: The Student Activities Office is accepting applications for Student Program Assistants.PA's are responsible for assisting with campus events working eight hours weekly.Applications are available outside the SA0,315 LaFortune.Applications are due 9/23/98. 
We heard there's eight guys' dorm dances this weekend. Why haven't we been asked yet? Love, Four Fun Fourth-Floor McGlinn Girls:-) 
There once was a great room, known to all as the penthouse, but tis no more 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY JAN!!!!!!!!!! 


Ablock and ohalf west of the Hall of Fame • 232-2293 
•rum. 

Vancouver suspends restless all-star Bure 
Associated Press 

The Vancouver Canucks made it official Wednesday: Pavcl Bure is suspended. 
As promised, the Canucks suspended their top scorer after he made good on his threat not to show up in train­ing camp. 
Bure, who led the Canucks with 51 goals last season, went public last month citing "personal reasons" that he wants to be traded and will never play in a Vancouver uni­form again. 
The announcement of Bure's suspension was delivered in a terse, one-sentence press release issued following the team's training camp scrim­mage. 
The suspension is more of a formality at this point, as it will not have any real impact until NHL players begin get­ting paid at the start of the season. 
Canucks president and gen­eral manager Brian Burke refused comment, sticking to a promise he made to the media last Sunday that he would no longer talk about Bure. 
The three-time 50-plus-goal scorer, who broke into the NHL with the Canucks in 1991. has one year left on a contract that is reportedly expected to pay him about $8 million. 
Burke has previously said that if the right deal doesn't come along, he is prepared to let Bure miss the entire sea­son. 
Sabres 

Dixon Ward scored two goals Wednesday night to lead the Sabres to a 5-1 victory over Klagenfurt of the Austrian League in the International Challenge hockey tournament. 
The Sabres, Eastnrn Conference finalists last sea­son in the Stanley Cup play­ol'fs, were shocked early in the first period when Dieter Kalt beat NIIL MVP and Czech Olympic hero Dominik llasnk for a 1-0 lead. 
The goal servrd as a wake­up call for the Sabres, who 
scored five straight goals. Michal Grosek and Ward responded in the first period to put Buffalo ahead 2-1, Paul Kruse's goal made it 3-1 after two and Ward and team cap­tain Mike Peca closed out thn scoring in the third. 
Penguins 

Coach Kevin Constantine is hoping that a erop of young­sters will help make up for the defensive dnficieneins in last season's Penguins. 
In the playoffs against Montreal. the Penguins defensemen couldn't stay with the opposition's sp!HHiy for­wards. 
"They might be ready now, but they might need to play a month or two in the minors or they might need a whole year there," Constantino said of his new dnfnnsemen. "When they're ready to play, we'll sne if they can earn a spot." 
Penguins prospects trying to make the club inelude Sven Butensehon, Andrew Ference, Tuomas Gronman. Pavel Skrbek. Chris Kelleher. Josef Melichar and Michal Hozsival. Of the group, Gronman spent the most time with the Penguins last season. lie pri­marily split time with Syracuse (;\IlL, 33 games) and the NHL 
(22) last season. 

In other news, the NIIL announced that its 50th All­Star Game will be played in Toronto on the weekend of Feb. 5-6, 2000. 
"Toronto is the homr. of an 'Original Six' team, the birth­place of the All-Star Game and the home of our sport's llall of Fame," NIIL commissioner Gary Bellman said. "It is only fitting that the All-Star cele­bration should return for this milestone game in thn millen­nium year. 2000." 
It will be the nighth time thn All-Star Gamn will bn lwld in Toronto. but thn first sincn I 9 6 8. T lw IIJ IJ 9 game is scheduled .Jan. 24 at Tampa, Fla. 

I 
-~--·-~--..,.......,.__...,._,..________~--·-­
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, September 17, 1998 
I 


I 
I • Gou.tGf: FoornAu 
Woody Hayes' cabin to be auctioned 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 
A log cabin once owned by former Ohio State football coach Woody Hayes will be sold at auction on the Internet. 
Hayes' son, 
Hayes Steven, said con­ducting the auction electroni­cally would increase the num­ber of bidders and the potential for making more money from the sale. 

Steven Hayes, a Franklin County Municipal Court judge, is selling the cabin to establish a scholarship fund at the uni­versity in the name of his moth­er, Anne, who died in January. 
The cabin was built on his great-grandfather's 200-acre farm, Hayes said Wednesday. 
The coach "always wanted to build a cabin on the land. He bought the land, but never found the time to do it," his son said. 
"So between 1977 and 1979, some of his former players came down and planned it and built it for him." 
A minimum bid hasn't been set for the 18-by 22-foot cabin near Middleburg in Noble County, about 90 miles south­east of Columbus. 
"The opening bid will be more than the original asking price of $49,900," Steve Vilardo, president of Complete Property Resources, said Wednesday. CPR is conducting the auction. 
• GYMNASTICS 





Gymnast Sang Lan slowly recovering 
Associated Press 
NEWYOH.K 

The Chinese gymnast para­lyzed during a warmup vault at the Goodwill Games is learn­ing to write her name again ­using fingers that still can't move. 
"Her spirit is quite amazing -highly motivated. She is consistently in a good mood," said Dr. Kristjan Ragnarsson, an expert on rehabilitation for spinal cord injuries at The Mount Sinai Medical Center. 
Sang Lan broke her neck July 21 at Nassau Coliseum on Long Island and remains para­lyzed. 
"She's very skillful," her doc­tor said. "She's working very hard on things that come very simply to us." 
Holding utensils with the help of a splint attached to her hand, the 17 -year-old gymnast painstakingly feeds herself. combs her hair, brushes her teeth and is learning to dress herself. She gets out of bed with a sliding board onto a wheelchair, which she pushes around the hospital corridors. 
It's all in preparation for a new, more sclf-sufficicn t life that includes learning English from a tutor. 
"She greets me very politely in English -'Good morning, Dr. H.agnarsson,"' the doctor said. 
The bad news, he said, is that there has not been any significant change in her neu­rological condition since the accident. Sang still has no feel­ing in her lower body or her hands. 
She is, however, developing the muscles she can control, including those in her neck, shoulders, arms and wrists, and she's learning to balance her body while sitting. 
For this kind of spinal cord injury, Hagnarsson said, the prognosis is "exceptionally poor." Any other development would have been "almost miraculous." 
However, the doctor said, he has heard that somn people with a complete spinal cord injury such as Sang's have regained some function. 
lie said the teen-ager is fac­ing the bad news "with maturi­ty." 
''I'm sure there have been moments of frustration and depression, but she has kept those to herself," he said. 
Hagnarsson has also treated former New York Jets player Dennis Byrd, who recovered six years ago from paralysis after breaking his neck. But Sang's injuries wel'l~ more severe, hn said. 
Sang plans to get more edu­!'ation becausP she under­stands it's necessary "wlwn you have lost the physical skills," Hagnarsson said. 
She is to be discharged from Mount Sinai by mid-Octolwr to live in a nearby hospital­owned apartment and continue rehabilitation, which now takes as much as six hours a day. Her parents, who !1ew to New York from China after the accident, arc participating in her therapy. 
The costs are covered by Goodwill Games insurance and a private fund started for her. 
For now, there's no talk about returning to China. 
NOW that
' .
youhe entenng 


t EReal \Vorld, 
INFORMATION SESSION 
Thursday, Sept. 24, 7:30-9:30pm Dooley Room, LaFortune Student Center 
INTERVIEWS 
Wednesday, Oct. 28 

Equal Opportunity Employer 
There is no better time to investigate your options for the future. With First Chicago NllD, one of the notion's top 10 financial institutions, you will be starting your career with a world-class financial services corporation thor is rhe #1 middle morl~et, corporate and retail bani~ in the Midwest. 
We're lool~ing for success-driven individuals to join our First Scholar Program (FSP), which enables liberal arts undergraduates to pursue a financial services career while earning a graduate business degree from either The University of Chicago, or J. L. Kellogg Graduate School of Management or Northwestern University. Combining on-the-job training with formal educorion, this unique 2 1/2-yeor rotational program helps participants gain experience in a variety of business areas. We'll be on 
campus on the following dotes, 
Thursday, September 17, 1998 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 



CAMPUS MINISTRY® 
Calendar of Events 
Exposition of the Blessed Sacrament 
Mondays-Tuesdays, 11:30-10:00 at St. Paul's Chapel (Fisher Hall), Fridays, 12:00-4:45 p.m. at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

Freshman Retreat #18 (October 9-10) Sign-Ups 
Monday-Friday, September 14-18 103 Hesburgh, 112 Badin Hall, or see your rector. 

Emmaus Information Session 
Thursday, September 17 Hesburgh Library lounge 
6:15 p.m. -7:00 p.m. 

Liturgical Choir Retreat 
Friday-Saturday, September 18-19 

Latino First Students Retreat 
Friday-Sunday, September 18-20 Five Pines, 6:30 p.m.-5:00p.m. 

Campus Bible Study 
Tuesday, September 22 Badin Hall Chapel 
7:00 p.m. -8:30 p.m. 
25TH SUNDAY OF ORDINARY TIME 
Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica Saturday, September 19 
5:00p.m. Rev. Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. Sunday, September 20 
10:00 a.m. Rev. Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. James M. Lies, C.S.C. Vespers: 
7:15 p.m. Sr. Eleanor Bernstein, C.S.J. Scripture Readings 1st Reading Amos 8:4-7 2nd Reading Timothy 2:1-8 Gospel Luke 16:1-13 or 10-13 


Oh :xouth, pass the bottle! 
Jim Lies, C.S.C. 

Are you struck by the number of people around Notre Dame who seem unable to socialize, particularly with the opposite sex, without first consuming excessive amounts of alcohol? I probably shouldn't take up this topic here since, like sex and chastity, alcohol is one of those topics that could leave me yet again looking the prude. And yet, for some reason, I feel compelled, even obliged to say something on the topic. And it wouldn't be on this page if it didn't have something to do with a deep abiding concern for those who might read this column, and if it wasn't relat­ed to the spiritual life and health of this campus. 
To put it simply, alcohol on this campus is messing up people's lives. We as Campus Ministry would be remiss if we did not have something to say about the elephant in the middle of the room. As we attempt to nurture the spiritual life of this campus with our many liturgies and programs, we would be crazy to think that our efforts are unaffected by the use and abuse of alcohol on this campus. The ways in which we socialize have everything to do with the health and life of this community, as individuals, as couples, as friends, and as the larger family of Notre Dame. 
Don't misunderstand me, I like to drink. It is, in fact, one of the few vices that I haven't publicly forsworn. I hope my reputation for enjoying spirits far exceeds the reality, at least from that which I hear, but I will never deny enjoying a few drinks with friends. Where we go wrong are those instances when we seem to depend on alcohol to give us what we need to adequately enter into a social situation. I don't think it takes a social scientist to figure out that there is something wrong with the way we socialize on this campus, especially at SYRs, Hall Formals, off-campus par­
ties, and even on weekend nights (including Thursdays) at the bars. 
Please, please, don't misunderstand me. I am not a prohibitionist. I do not support our becoming a dry campus. I think we would be as remiss in disallowing alcohol on this campus as we would be if we didn't attempt to teach people about responsi­ble drinking and personal accountability. This is an appropriate time and place to learn how to drink. But I think you know that the prepatory rituals which seem to happen on this campus before hall dances are not happening in your parents homes or before office parties or even before nights out with friends beyond these days. And while you might explain it away by saying that it's just a college thing, I worry that you'll walk away from this place with fewer friendships and be far less adept at the art of socializing. 
If we don't appreciate the fact that their is a direct correlation between the prevalent abuse of alcohol and the problems that we have with gender relations on this cam­pus then we're nuts! Many would like to say that we drink so much because the social life on this campus is so bad. I wonder if the social life on this campus is so bad because we drink so much. Aside from the fact that we often sit around with the "guys" and drink, which isn't in itself a bad thing unless it becomes the very rea­son we gather, we should be thinking about how it relates to the gender relations on this campus. 
If we've come to believe that it's "normal" to enter into an evening with a person of the opposite sex, much less end it, seriously wasted then we need to think again. Too often, the drinking is inversely proportional to how well one knows the other person. And when we go out, already intoxicated, with the person we know least well, we're in no condition to meet them, and we end the evening (early, probably,) looking the fool, or at least not knowing them any better than when we started. What will you walk away from an evening like that with? And how often have you done things in relationship that you would never have done but for the fact that you were drunk? At the time it seems to heighten our courage, but more often, upon reflection, it impairs our judgement, especially regarding physical expression. How often would we like to have those moments back when we didn't consider well enough what we were doing? 
My real concern is that, in our present reality, we're not well disposed to learn how to socialize, to enter into deep and intimate relationships, friendships, with those of the same or opposite sex. We live under this illusion that we're better communica­tors or funnier or less timid when we're drinking, or drunk, than when we're sober. But what is that going to do for us beyond these days when we're in a social setting where there is no alcohol? If you're ever going to meet that perfect partner at church, just as your mother prays you will, then you have to learn to overcome shy­ness and develop the skills of communication and humor without alcohol, not to mention get up early on a Sunday morning! 
It's a practical matter gang. It's not about me, or Campus Ministry, or Student Affairs; it's about you. It's about making choices for your life that are consistent with the integrated whole of the rest of your life, and of the person that you want to be when you leave this place. In these early days of the school year, take it for what it's worth and do with it what you will. But trust me, time for friendship is 
(] 
a 
~ 
~ ~ 


b tlJ 
~ ~ ~ 
~ 
a 
~ 
~ 
• • • 


(DMPUS MINISTRY 


• • a •. • • • ,_.,-. '1 1 ., ..... " 1 1 r ..... • • •' , ""'•r ......,.""',....,41 '• • • ••· • " • ..,. · • • .... r • • --f -• .. • I~ • • .. -t-....... r·:, .. ·.. •_-f • r ... •.-.,...... ... • •.-, •• .: • _ .. _-..... -•• -..... ~ " • .-•• _ ... _ 
.. 
----------..-------~~,------· "~-~·~--­
,~­
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, September 17, 1998 
• NrL 

Veteran QB Hostetler leaves Redskins camp 
Associa1ed Press 
ASHBURN, Va. 
Discouraged 15-year veteran Jeff Hostetler cleared out his locker Wednesday, apparently leaving the Washington Redskins after his demotion to third-string quarterback. 
Hostetler left Hedskin Park and drove home to West Virginia after a morning meeting with coach Norv Turner. By noon, Hostetler's locker was bare and his burgundy nameplate had been removed. 
"Jeff and I met this morning. I excused him from practice today, and really that's where we're at right now," Turner said. 'Til know more tomorrow." 
Turner said he did not know when or if Hostetler would return. He would not discuss the details of their conservation. other than to say it concerned Hostetler's frustration over being relegated behind Trent Green and Gus Frerotte on the depth chart. 
Hostetler's sudden departure caught his teammates ofT guard. 
"I know he was disappointed with being the third. He had made that clear," Green said. "That's got to be a tough situa­tion for a veteran who has accomplished all that he has." 
A bizarre twist of fate has put Hostetler's road at a dead end with the Hedskins. Turner talked the 37 -year-old quarterback into returning for another season -and thus turning down an offer to retire and become a television commentator -by promising Hostetler he would be less patient this season if Frerotte struggled. Hostetler sat on the bench 13 weeks last year before starting the final three games, and that was only after Frerotte broke his hip. 

But Hostetler injured his knee in the final exhibition game in August and couldn't suit up for the season opener against the New York Giants. So when Frerotte threw back-to-hack interceptions and hurt his shoul­der, it was Green who got the call. 
Green played well, followed it up with another good perfor­mance in a losing cause Monday night against San Francisco. and is now the starter for the fore­seeable future. 
With Frerotte at No. 2, there's little chance that Hostetler could play for the Redskins any time soon. His options include retire­ment or a request for a trade, an enticing prospect given the rash of quarterback injuries in the NFL this season. Turner said Hostetler did not ask for his out­right release. 
• 

Associa1ed Press 
DENVEH 

Getting treatment twice a day for his strained right ham­string, John Elway planned to test his 
111Jury for the first time in Friday's practice. 
E I way, lis ted as questionable on the Denver 

B r o n c o s ' Elway injury report, was noncommit­tal about his availability for Sunday's game in Oakland. 
"''m going to get treatment and keep working on it and see how we are at the end of the week," Elway said Wednesday. "It's getting better, but it's still got a ways to go. I always hope to play, but we'll just have to wait and see. 
''I'm not going to practice (Wednesday). We'll see how it is (Thursday). But I think prob­ably the forecast is to practice some on Friday. If I can't move around, if I can't go out there and defend myself. then I won't 
• 


Elway questionable for Sunday 
be out there Sunday." Haiders to stack the line of 
Veteran Bubby Brister would scrimmage and try to stop run­start if Elway can't play, with ning back Terrell Davis if he rookie Brian Griese in reserve. can't play, Elway said, "No. 
Coach Mike Shanahan, who There's only so many things said he will prepare only one they can do. We've got too game plan regardless of which many weapons with (wide quarterback executes it, said receivers) Hod (Smith) and the Broncos "probably won't Shannon (Sharpe) and Ed know for sure about John until (McCaffrey). The same thing he actually takes a snap and happened with Dallas. They tries to go through some drops. tried to take the pass away and In a perfect world, we'd like to we ran it. Then when they have him go through a Friday brought everybody back in to practice. But we don't want to take the run away. we threw it. push him where we aggravate We're real fortunate in the fact the hamstring." that we're pretty balanced." 
Elway. injured in the fourth Last week, Davis ran for 191 quarter of last week's 42-23 yards and three touchdowns victory over Dallas, suffered a and Elway was 16-of-22 for similar injury in 1996. That 268 yards and two touchdowns season, he tried to play through and also ran for one. the injury, but when it lingered The Broncos finished with he finally missed one game a 515 yards and rank second in month later. the NFL in total offense behind 
"The injuries are different," San Francisco. Elway, 38, said. "On the last Based on outward appear­one, I was able to stay in and ances, Davis expects Elway to finish the game. That's the play on Sunday. thing that scares me about this "Just seeing him walking up one, the fact that I couldn't stay and down the locker room," in. But the last hamstring was Davis said, "he doesn't seem to torn and this one is not. So it's be limping or hobbling. So my hard to compare." guess is that he will play." 
Asked if he expected the 
• 
ATH • ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING • MECHANICAL ENGINEERING• BUSINESS ANALYSI 
When something is too extreme for words, it's to the Nth degree. And that's the level of technology you'll experience at Raytheon. 
Raytheon has formed a new technological superpower-Raytheon Systems Company, composed of four major technological giants: Raytheon Electronic Systems, Raytheon E-Systems, Raytheon Tl Systems and Hughes Aircraft. The new Raytheon Systems Company is driving technology to the limit. And we're looking for engineers who want to push the envelope. Break new ground. Make their mark. 
At Raytheon, you'll take technology-and your career-to the highest possible level. You'll take it to the Nth. We'll be visiting your campus soon. Contact your career placement office now to schedule an interview, or check out our website at www.rayjobs.com. If you are unable to meet with us, please send your resume to: Raytheon Resume Processing Center, P.O. Box 660246, MS-201, Dallas, TX 75266. We have many exciting opportunities available and we would like to talk to you. 

-------~---------------------------------------------------­
ursday, September 17, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALl 
ardinals' J.D Drew 
IDpresses in debut 
>Ciatcd Press 
ST. LOUIS 

o far, J.D. Drnw is outhomc­g tlw homn run king. n1w, the formnr Phillies 
tft pick who held out for one son beforn being draftnd by Louis in Junn, couldn't have nd for a bnttl"1r start in thn jors. lin has thrnn homers in 
l'irst night days, onn morn n rwm1 Mark Me<;wire. I don't think that's going to t vnry long," Drnw acknowl­
rnd after hilling two homers the lirst game of a doublr1­tdnr against Pittsburgh on 
Psday. 
cGwirn, who hit his 63rd nor as a pinch-hitter latnr in 1 game, was one of the first rn1nt him naeh time. I told him I'm happy to get a mn run in his first career o-homnr gamn," McGwire 
id. ''I'm snrious. This kid is ontnd, and I don't think any­dy has roally sonn what he n do ynt. lin's got a f!)al nice ·okr• and it's going to be nicn play with him." 
l>rnw, hownvnr, was ratclwd from tlw Cardinals' 
Ia r t i n g Ii rw u p W n d nosd a y rghl against Pittsburgh Pcausn ol' back stilTnnss. 
DrPw 's pn rform a nee in his rsl wt1nk has hnlpPd chango d;wirn's opinion ol' thn 22­·ar-old outl'iPidor. i\l'tnr tlw ardinals dral'tnd Drnw in 
urw. Md;wire said a player houldn 't hold out until lw has rovnd his worth in tlw majors. In nvnn advocatnd a $250,000 ap for dral'l.nd players. 
"Makl' your monny in tlw big Htguns, boys," MrCwirn said then. "It's absolutely ridiculous what some of these young kids are getting. They don't even know what it takes to be a big league ballplayer." 
Drew and agent Scott Boras eventually signed a four-year contract worth $7 million guar­anteed and as much as $8.5 million. Now McGwire says he'd like to hear Drew's side of tlw story. 
"That's something that hope­fully some day I can sit down and talk to him and see his side," McGwire said. "The only side we've been seeing is what the press has been writing." 
For now, McGwire is just happy watching Drew hit. In his first 20 at-bats, Drew was having no trouble adjusting to big league pitching, batting .:i50 with seven HB!s, live runs scored and two doubles. 
He had a big day against the Pirates on Tuesday, with solo homers measured at 405 and 421 feet in the first game and two doubles in the second game. Playing left lield. he also threw out a runner at the plate for an inning-ending double play in the second game. 
"I don't know how many mil­lions they gave him," Pirates managnr Gene Lamont said. "But I can sne why they did." 
Drnw was booed vociferously during tho Cardinals' recent trip to Cincinnati and llouston by fans who remember his holdout. A fan threw back the ball from his lirst career hit, a 4:{S-l'oot horner against the Hnds. 
i\t homP, he's trr~ated like tho star he appnars destined to bneorne. 

Global telecommunications is driving the Information Age. And we're driving global telecommunications. We're Tellabs, a company that is expanding the world with high-quality, mission-critical voice/data transport and network access systems. If youl:! like to expand your own career horizons to take in the entire world, we invite you to meet with us when we visit your campus. 
We have opportunities in our Lisle and Bolingbrook, Illinois facilities for EE, CompE, and CS in: 
• 
Hardware design and testing 

• 
Software engineering 

• 
Software and systems testing and integration 

• 
Firmware engineering 

• 
VLSI design engineering 


In addition, we have opportunities for M.S. and Ph.D. candidates at our Indiana Research Center. 
If you're unable to attend this event, please fax or mail your resume and cover letter to: Tellabs College Relations, Dept. CNA98, 1000 Remington Boulevard, Bolingbrook, IL 60440. Fax: 
(630) 378-5620 e-mail collegegraduates@tellabs.com Website: www.tellabs.com EOE 
Industry Day Wednesday, Sept. 23 IOa.m. -4p.m. Fitzpatrick Hall 

Ytellabs·, 



McGwire again fails to homer 
Associated Press with a squeeze bunt as the Cardinals won for the 13th ST. LOUIS time in 17 games. 
Jason Christiansen barely Matt Morris (6-5) allowed avoided giving upMark four hits in seven scoreless McGwire's 64th home run, innings. Mike Busby worked too. the eighth and Juan Acevedo 
McGwire, who hit homer No. finished up. 63 off Christiansen the previ­Pirates reliever Todd Van ous day, flied out to the warn­Poppe! (1-2) retired one of the ing track against the three batters he faced in the Pittsburgh reliever Wednesday seventh. Pittsburgh has lost 16 night as the St. Louis of 20. Cardinals beat the Pirates 4-0. Like his teammates, 
On Tuesday, McGwire ended McGwire had little luck his six-game, 18 at-bat homer­against Pirates starter Chris less drought with a pinch-hit Peters, who allowed two hits shot in the ninth inning. in six scoreless innings. Peters 
This time, McGwire hit a retired 14 of the last 15 bat­high !ly ball that fell short for ters he faced. the final out in the seventh, Morris retired the first nine stranding two runners. With a batters, four of them on 
record 63, he remained one strikeouts. He walked Peters home run ahead of Chicago's to load the bases with one out Sammy Sosa, who played later in the fifth, but got out of the at San Diego. jam by starting a home-to-first 
McGwire was 0-for-3 with a double play on TonyWomack. walk, his 155th of the season. He needs 15 walks in the final Expos 3, Marlins 2 nine games to tie Babe Ruth's 
1923 major league record. In what might be their last 
McGwire walked in the first, game in Montreal, the Expos took a called third strike in rallied for two runs in the the third, and also flied out to ninth inning on pinch-hit RBis 
center in the sixth. for a 3-2 victory over the Eli Marrero's two-run dou­Florida Marlins. 
ble off Christiansen broke up a Robert Perez hit a pinch RBI scoreless tie in the seventh, single and Jose Vidro drove in and rookie Joe McEwing the winning run with a double 
brought home another  run  to rally the Expos.  
Eastern Division  w  L  PCT  GB  Home  
Atlanta  98 55  .641  53-25  
NY Mets  85 68  .556  13  45-31  
Philadelphia  70 82  .461  27.5  3S-40  
Montreal  61 92  .399  37  39-42  
Florida  50 103  .327  48  28-47  
Central Division  WL  PCT  GB  Home  
Houston  97 56  .634  53-24  
Chicago Cubs  85 67  .559  II .5  50-28  
St.Louis  76 77  .497  21  44-32  
Milwaukee  72 81  .471  25  37-39  
Cincinnati  70 83  .458  27  35-40  
Pittsburgh  68 84  .447  28.5  39-38  
Western Division  WL  PCT  GB  Home  
San Diego  95 57  .625  53-23  
San Francisco  80 71  .530  14.5  43-31  
Los Angeles  77 75  .507  18  43-31  
Colorado  73 80  .477  22.5  40-36  
Arizona  61 91  .401  34  31-42  

Marlins rookie starter Kirt Ojala (2-6) entered the ninth with a three-hitter. lie gave up a leadoff walk to Shane Andrews, and one out later, pinch-runner Mike Mordecai advanced on Bob Henley's groundout. 
Perez's single up the middle scored Mordecai before Vidro hit his game-winning double over the head of center fielder Preston Wilson. 
Steve Kline (3-6) relieved Mike Maddux with two outs and the bases loaded in the top of the ninth. Kline got of the jam by forcing Wilson to ground into a fielder's choice. 
The Expos' ownership group has set a Sept. 30 deadline to decide whether sufficient financing is available to build a $165 million downtown sta­dium in time for the 2001 sea­son. 
If they do not proceed with the project, the team will like­ly be sold and moved, possibly before the beginning of next 
season.  
Cliff  Floyd  hit  two  of  
Florida's six doubles.  
Ojala gave up five  hits and  

three runs in 8 2-3 innings. lie struck out six N four in one inning. 
Bob Henley led ofT the third inning with his second homer for Montreal. 
Away DIV Streak 45-30 25-18 Won 3 40-37 20-20 Won I 32-42 18-23 Lost 3 22-50 23-20 Won I 22-56 17-22 Lost I Away DIV Streak 44-32 33-15 Lost I 35-39 26-22 Won I 32-45 26-25 Won2 35-42 21-30 Won I 35-43 21-29 Lost I 29-46 22-28 Lost 2 Away DIV Sh-eak 42-34 28-12 Lost I 37-40 17-24 Lost 2 34-44 22-20 Lost I 33-44 20-19 Won I 30-49 15-27 Won 3 
Ohserver/Joe Mueller 


Attention Sophomores! Get involved in 1998-1999 JPW  
The committee for this year's Junior Parents Weekend is looking for a Sophomore Chairperson. This is your chance to get involved in one of the most exciting events of Junior year. Don't let this opportu­nity pass YOU by. APPLY NOW!  
• Applications are now available in room 315 LaFortune and must be returned no later than September 25 to room 315 •If you have any questions please call Amy Seamon at x3869  

SM 
continued from page 24 
come together, we'll bn unstop­pable." 
In St. Louis, the Belles played some tough soccer and began to come together. The nntire 
...
team was planning on coming out with a win against Kalamazoo. 
"We had big hopes for today and have been working very hard," said coach Hobert Sharp. "We played tough this weekend and thought that we were ready to move 011. We stepped up to this game think­ing that we were ready to gel together as a team, and it just didn't happen. The only thing to do is to go back and work harder. We've got some great expectations for this team." 
The Belles are looking for­ward to moving past this lost. They will be 
working hard until their next game and will come out strong and ready to win. Their next game is scheduled for l p.m. Saturday against Anderson College at home. 

page 20 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, September 17, 1998 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Texas wi11s, ties Angels in AL West 
Associated Press 
ARLINGTON. Texas 
The Texas Hangers beat the Anaheim Angels and tied up the wild AL West. 
Texas finally caught Anaheim in the standings after trailing for the last month Wednesday night with a 5-3 victory. 
Todd Stottlemyre, Boyce Clayton and Todd Zeile, all acquired at the trading dead­line exactly for games like this, led the Hangers, who'll play the Angels again on Thursday. 
Both teams have 11 games remaining -four against each other. 
The Angels had been alone in first place since passing the Rangers on Aug. 14. Anaheim Jed by as many as four games on Aug. 26, but have dropped six of their last eight with five coming on its current seven­game road trip. 
Stottlemyre ( 4-4) pitched his best game yet for Texas, allow­ing six hits in eight innings. Clayton drove in two runs, scored once and made a nice defensive play at shortstop and Zeile had an RBI double. 
John Wetteland came in for the ninth and gave up a two­run homer to Matt Walbeck. 
Chuck Finley (11-8) lost for the second time on the trip and for the third time in three starts this season against Texas. He allowed all five runs and nine hits over 6 2-3 innings, striking out six and walking five. 
The Rangers seemed to feed off the momentum of Tuesday night's 6-5 victory over Baltimore in which they over­came an early five-run deficit and won on a two-run homer by Ivan Rodriguez in the ninth inning. 
Will Clark, who started the late rally against the Orioles by beating out an infielld hit 

American League Baseball 
. ~~~ 
=~ 
. ·f 
. ·.r. 
. . ··~:;;~> 


Eastern Division w L PCT GB Streak 
NY Yankees 104 45 .698 Lost 1 
Boston 84 65 .564 20 Won I 
Toronto 81 70 .536 24 Lost 2 
Baltimore 77 73 .513 27.5 Lost I 
Tampa Bay 59 90 .396 45 Won I 
Central Division WL PCT GB Streak 
Cleveland 84 66 .557 Won3 
Chi White Sox 71 79 .473 12.5 Lost 1 
Kansas City 69 80 .463 I4 Won4 
Minnesota 65 85 .433 18.5 Lost 6 
Detroit 58 93 .384 26 Won I 
Western Division WL PCT GB Streak 
Anaheim 8I 70 .540 Lost 1
'"' 
Texas 81 70 .533 Won I Seattle 69 80 .463 11.5 Won2 Oakland 69-81 .460 12 Lost 2 
Every Wednesday 

despite a broken right big toe. got Texas going again Wednesday night by opening the secon-d inning with his 23rd home run. 
Clayton drove in two runs later in the inning with a dou­ble down the right-field line, then scored when the Angels failed to turn a potential inning-ending double play on a 
grounder  to  third  base  by  
Roberto Kelly.  
Anaheim closed to 4-1  on  

Gregg Jefferies' solo homer with two outsin the fifth, but Texas got the run back in the bottom of the inning as Zeile ended an 0-for-13 skid with an RBI double. 
Stottlemyre's only jam was in the seventh, when the Angels had runners on second and third with two outs and Jefferies -3-for-3 at the time ­up. But Stottlemyre struck out Jefferies on a full-count curve­ball, and the right-hander ran off the mound pumping his right arm. 
Indians 8, Twins 6 

Manny Ramirez hit his 41st and 42nd homers Wednesday night, tying the major league record with homers in four straight at-bats and five in two games as the Cleveland Indians clinched a fourth straight AL Central title with an 8-6 victory over the Minnesota Twins. 
The Indians became the third team to win four straight titles since divisional play started in 1969. They joined Atlanta, on its current run of seven straight, and the Oakland A's, who won the AL West from 1971-75. 
Ramirez, who homered in his last three at-bats Tuesday night, homered on a 1-1 pitch from Minnesota's Bob Tewksbury (7 -11) in the first. After grounding out in the sec­ond, Ramirez hit a 3-2 pitch to left for his fifth homer in six at-bats. That gave him six hits in his last 37 at-bats N all homers. He was 2-for-4, grounding out twice. 
In two games, Hamirez has: five homers, nine RBis and three curtain calls. He has 13 multi-homer games, including an AL-high seven this season. Sammy Sosa leads the majors with10. 
Charles Nagy (14-10) sur­vived a scary moment when a liner was hit off his pitching hand in the second. He allowed four runs and eight hits in 5 1­3 innings with no walks and three strikeouts. 
Pat Meares had an RBI groundout, and Paul Molitor an RBI single off Steve Karsay in the ninth to bring Detroit within 8-6. Paul Assenmacher got the final out for his third save. 
Devil Rays 7, Yankees 0 
Tony Saunders pitched six scoreless innings and the Tampa Bay Devil Rays beat AL East champion New York 7-0 Wednesday night for their first victory over the Yankees. 
The Yankees were the only AL team the expansion Devil Rays had not beaten. New York won the first six games of the season series, including four straight at Tropicana Field. 
Andy Pettitte {16-1 0) strug­gled again for the Yankees, losing for the fourth time in six decisions. He gave up at least five runs for the sixth straight start, leaving after six innings with Tampa Bay ahead 6-0. 
The loss meant the Yankees cannot set the major league record for wins in a season. At 104-46, the best they can do is match the mark of 116 victo­ries by the 1906 Chicago Cubs. The AL record is 111 by the 1954 Cleveland Indians. 


* * *  2 YEAR ROTATIONAL PROGRAM TRAINING & DEVELOPMENT DOMESTIC & INTERNATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES  
LOOK FOR US AT THE BUSINESS CAREER FORUM TODAY AND TOMORROW!!!  
VISIT OUR WEBSITE @ WWW.ALLEGIANCE.NET  



Walton 
continued from page 24 
They're going to see that. Shane is our 'go-to' man, but that's just going to open up holes for guys like Cox, Bocklage, Aris and Wells," said Johnson. 
Walton couldn't he happier with that projection as long as the Irish come out on top. 
"The team creates the chances for me," he said as he rushed to get out to the prac­tice field one afternoon. "You can only do so much to take a person out of the game. If I'm 


Observer Sports: Simply the best 


SWING DANCE PARTY 
If swing is your thing, 
this is your night. 


The reggae stylings of 
URAEUS 

jam the lower level while 
DJ FONZ & WALK-MAMA 
spin you silly in the Shamrock Lounge 
*GIVEAWAYS ALL WEEKEND* 
·~""~ 





'"''"~ 
covered, someone else is open. So as long as we win, that's what really matters. I don't care if I don't score goals if we win. I'll be fine with that." 
Until that time comes, if it does at all with the multiple threats on the Irish frontline, Walton will remain the man of the hour, despite his more humble attitude. 
''I'd like to be the 'go-to' guy, but right now. I don't think I am," he said. "I still have to earn that respect." 
With such an unselfish team­oriented outlook, Walton may be better crowned as the veter­an of the week rather than the rookie of the week. 

.------------------------------------------­
Thursday, September 17, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS 
page 21 
When Jesse llarper took the helm in 1912, as the school's first athletic director, one of his goals was to bring Notre Dame into the Big Nine, in an attempt to schedule stronger opponents. So, the Irish again applied for admission into the Big Nine, and again tlwy were turned down. This time, tlw conference members looknd at their recent victories and acted on rumors of elwating, possibly mad1~ up by l'oaelws from the members' schools. This forcnd tho Irish to look beyond their geographical boundaries in search of oppo­nents, which gnnnrated the national rivalries that contin­ue today. 
In 1926, the Univm·sity tried one last time to entr.r into Western Conference, once again with similar results. This time, it was Knutc Hockne who was leading th11 charge, meeting with all the member schools in an attempt to overcome the prejudices of Catholic higher education. To show that it had nothing to hide, Notre Dame offered to appoint a committee to visit the school to s.earch for viola­tions. llowever, the Big Ten once again refused. voting not to enlarge the conference and preventing the University from applying in the first place. 
In 1930, the Big Ten went so far as to meddle with Notre Dame's schedules and their opponents. In a match between Notre Dame and Northwestern that was sched­uled to take place at Soldier Field, the conference invoked a little-known rule that forced both schools to move the matchup to 48,000 seat Dyche Stadium; a far cry from the 120,000 that could fit into Soldier Field. To make mat­ters worse, the proceeds from the extra gate receipts were planned to go to charity, a noble cause considering it was the height of the Great Depression. 
While some may say that this is all just "ancient histo­ry" and should be ignored, these facts still make an important point. If thn Big Ten had overcome their prnjudiccs and decided to accept Notre Dame, it is quite possible that the Irish would never obtained the love-hate relationship that makes them sur.h a part of Americana. 
They say that "those who forget history arn doomed to repnat it". Well, I hope that thn mem hers of tlw Univnrsity who are considnring the move to the Big T1~n think about the facts above, bnfon~ something lik11 this happens again. 
C, 
We want you: 

Write for the Observer 
• COLU::Gt FOOTBAll 

Hart 
continued from page 24

Paterno, Penn St. battle Pitt 
arc against the move'. Then there's the television contract Notre Dame has with
Associated Press NBC. The Irish have a con­
I'ITTSBlJH(;JJ 

tract through the 2005 sea­Tlwn•'s bPPn something miss­
son, which would conflict with ing from thP l'nnn Statn­
ABC's broadcast of all Big Ten games through 2007_
l'ittsburgh rivalry lilr, oh, about In my opinion, it's important
10 yPars now_ to take a look at this all from
Tlw rivalry. 
a historical standpoint.

A snrins that o11ce was lPln­Looking back for more than
visPd nationally PVPry ypar and fpaturnd somn of collngn foot­
a century. Notre Dame and the Big Ten have had quite a
hall's biggnsl namPs -Tony history together, and it's
IJorsl'tt. Da11 Marino, Jack llam. almost always been less than
Franco llarris -is almost an cordial.
al'tnrthought. At l11ast to l'mm Back in 1895, the presidents
StatP. It's not just th1~ lirni11g, nitlwr, 
of the universities of Chicago, Minnesota, Wisconsin, Illinois,
of Saturday's game at !'itt Northwestern, Purdue, and
.'itadiurn -thn third weekend Michigan establishf)d the
of the season rathnr than latn NoVPmlwr; l'nnn State's jump to 
"Western Conference" as part of an ongoing effort to reform
l.lw Big Ten fivn years ago tnr­minatiHI that tradition. It's also 
the illegal practices rampant llw hard times that have fallnn 
in collegiate athletics. Almost immediately after the confer­
upon l'itt, whieh has appnared ence's foundation, Notre
in only one bowl game to l'enn Stat1>s night in tlw 191JOs_ 
Dame applied for admission. It was promptly rejected, due to
Sin c~~ I' itts burgh Ias t bnat l'nnn State in IIJHH in a long, 
the fact that the University was not large enough and that
passionatn rivalry that has rwvnr had a nicknanw but never 
it had "vague player eligibility
After years of bad seasons, the Pitt-Penn St. rivalry has diminished. 
rules." A year later, Notre l'itl is :1H-h2-2 under four n~ally rwndnd onn, 
Lions (2-0) and unranked State's quarterbacks coach 
Dame amended its "Athletic coaclws: Mike (;ottfriml, l'aul 
Panthers (1-0) is merely coinci­before coming to Pitt. "As long 
Constitution" to comply with d11ntal. as you get pounded like we did 
conference standards. Wall llarris. 1'11nn Stall~ is H6­
llackntt. .Johnny Majors and 
Pitt enjoyed its best recruiting a year ago (34-17 in State 
Meanwhile, the Western 2:l-l under !HlP: .Jon l'atnrno. 
elass in nearly a decade last College), I don't think there 
Conference kept taking on Tlw sPrins was intPrrupt11d, 
winter, stealing away for the really is much rivalry." 
new members. After adding pPrhaps lllP.I'l~ifully, for four first time in years a few players There certainly wasn't when 
Indiana and Iowa in 1899, the ynars from llJIJ:l-IJ(J al'tnr 1'1~1111 
that Penn State wanted -the series ended in 1992 with a 
league was renamed the "Big StatP joirwd tlw Big Tm1. It was 
namely, running back Brandon 57-13 Penn State rout, or the 
Nine." In 1908, after Michigan rnsunwd last year following out­
Williams, who will start three seasons before that when 
withdrew over a rules dispute, Saturday, and linebacker Amir Penn State also won, even if the 
Notre Dame was ready to step traditionalists upsnt that 
l:rins from statP lawmaknrs and 
Purifoy. scores were much closer. 
in again as a replacement. I'Pnnsylvania had lost not just a But Penn State still gets most So it's no surprise that Penn 
However, they were rejected ritual of sports, but onP of sod­
of the players it wants from State, coming off easy victories again, this time for unknown 
western Pennsylvania, sueh as over Southern Mississippi {34-6) reasons. This prompted Fr. Tlwn's just orw prohlmn: It's 
~~ly. 
star linebacker Brandon Short, and Bowling Green (48-3), is a Thomas Crumley, Vice still not tlw ganw it once was. 
who grnw up a Pitt fan in four-touchdown favorite President of the University, to And Pittsburgh's problmn is to 
McKeesport but, with pro aspi­Saturday over Pittsburgh, which say the battle for admission rnakn it compntitivn again 
rations. couldn't bring himself held off Division I-AA Villanova was "fought on theological, bdorl' thl' snriPs terminates 
to play there. before winning its opener 48-rather than athletic grounds." again al'tnr tlw 2000 snason, And until Pitt levnls the 41. The Southern Mississippi Father Crumley was indeed dtw to scheduling conflicts, per­
rncruiting field in its own back­score is notable because that correct: there is evidence to haps not to bn n~sunwd again 
yard, the area that sustained team blitzed Pitt 41-7 in the show that Western Conference for yPars and years. 
thn Panthers throughout their Liberty Bowl last season. representatives showed con­Surn, Pitt nnjoyed a rnini­run of' Top 10 finishes in the Pitt quarterback Matt Lytle tempt for Catholic higher edu­l'l1Vi val Ias I season u r111P r 
1970s. thn Pnnn State rivalry grew up in Penn State territory cation. However, the confer­llarris, finishing (J-6 and mak­
will be one in name only. in Wyomissing wishing he could ence's rejection of Notre ing its first bowl appearance 
"llopefully, some day we ean play for the Panthers against Dame was actually a Godsend, sincP I 1JHIJ. 
onen again make it a rivalry," the Nittany Lions, explaining, for it allowed the university to But any JH'I~sent day compar­
said llarris, who coached "Pitt always threw the ball a lot continue to run athletics its isons b1~twnnn tlw No. H Nittany against Penn State as Ohio more." own way, instead of shaping it 
towards the whims of the con­
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Notre Dame's rejection had many effeets, not just in foot­
Mod<'rn Dance -This class 
Western Conference 
will hn tailornd for a runge or 
members refused to schedule 
abillitles. Sonwstot long course 
football and baseball games
that will meet Mfl'h 6:15·7:30 with the university. Opponents 
p.m. in Activity Hoom 2 at the 
in the midwest soon became 
HSHC. You must register in 
to find, apart from advance at Htlt~Sporls-The eost 
Michigan. However, aftl~r the is $:~5. 
Irish upset them 11-3 in 11)09,Btlgimwr Ballet -No Bxperi­
the Wolverines never played Ill'!\ nnc:Pssary. Class rnoet.<> Su 
them again until 1942. 

University (jf Notre Dame 
ROlFS SPORTS RECREATION CENTER UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 


lnternationai'Study Program 
Rolfs Sports Recreation Center Drop-In Recreation Schedule 

n-Linc Hockey Sundays 8:30-10:30 Mondays 8:30-10:30 
Inforir.ation Meeting
Tuesduys 8:30-10:30 
with
Wednesdays 7:00-10:00 
Professor Hannelore Weber
Thursdays 8:30-10:30 Fridays 7:00-10:00 THURSDAY SEPTEMBER 17, 1998 Come by Yourself, or Bring a Friend! 
4:30 PM 120 DEBARTOLO 
II times arc PM. Schedule is in effect only when classes 
. . 
111 sesston. 


• MAJOH Lb~GUt BASfBAU. 


Texas wins, ties Angels in AL West 
Associated Press 
AHLINGTON. Texas 
The Texas Hangers beat the Anaheim Angels and tied up the wild AL West. 
Texas finally eaught Anaheim in the standings after trailing for the last month Wednesday night with a 5-3 victory. 
Todd Stottlemyre, Boyce Clayton and Todd Zeile, all acquired at the trading dead­line exactly for games like this, led the Rangers, who'll play the Angels again on Thursday. 
Both teams have 11 games remaining -four against each other. 
The Angels had been alone in first place since passing the Hangers on Aug. 14. Anaheim led by as many as four games on Aug. 26, but have dropped six of their last eight with five coming on its current seven­game road trip. 
Stottlemyre (4-4) pitched his best game yet for Texas, allow­ing six hits in eight innings. Clayton drove in two runs, scored once and made a nice defensive play at shortstop and Zeile had an RBI double. 
John Wetteland came in for the ninth and gave up a two­run homer to Matt Walbeck. 
Chuck Finley (11-8) lost for the second time on the trip and for the third time in three starts this season against Texas. He allowed all five runs and nine hits over 6 2-3 

-..:: 
innings, striking out six and walking live. 
The Hangers seemed to feed otT the monHmtum of Tuesday night's 6-5 victory over Baltimore in which they over­came an early five-run deficit and won on a two-run homer by Ivan Rodriguez in the ninth inning. 
Will Clark, who star.ted the late rally against the Orioles by beating out an infield hit despite a broken right big toe, got Texas going again Wednesday night by opening the second inning with his 23rd home run. 
Clayton drove in two runs later in the inning with a dou­ble down the right-field line, then scored when the Angels failed to turn a potential inning-ending double play on a grounder to third base by Roberto Kelly. 

Anaheim elosed to 4-1 on Gregg Jefferies' solo homer with two outsin the fifth. but Texas got the run back in the bottom of the inning as Zeile ended an 0-for-13 skid with an RBI double. 
Stottlemyre's only jam was in the seventh, when the Angels had runners on second and third with two outs and Jefferies-3-for-3 at the time ­up. But Stottlemyrc struck out Jefferies on a full-count curve­ball, and the right-hander ran off the mound pumping his right arm. 
Indians 8, Twins 6 

1\;lanny Hamirez hit his 41st and 42nd homers Wednesday night, tying the major league record with homers in four straight at-bats and live in two games as the Cleveland Indians clinched a fourth straight AL Central title with an 8-6 victory over the Minnesota Twins. 
The Indians became the third team to win four straight titles since divisional play started in 1969. They joined Atlanta, on its current run of seven straight, and the Oakland A's, who won the AL West from 1971-75. 
Hamirez, who homered in his last three at-bats Tuesday night, homered on a 1-1 pitch from Minnesota's Bob Tewksbury (7-11) in the first. After grounding out in the sec­ond, Hamirez hit a 3-2 pitch to left for his fifth homer in six at-bats. That gave him six hits in his last 37 at-bats N all homers. He was 2-for-4, grounding out twice. 
In two games, Hamirez has: five homers, nine RB!s and three curtain calls. lie has 13 multi-homer games, including an AL-high seven this season. Sammy Sosa leads the majors withlO. 
Charles Nagy (14-10) sur­vived a scary moment when a liner was hit off his pitching hand in the second. He allowed four runs and eight hits in 5 1­3 innings with no walks and three strikeouts. 
,1 l!TflEN1'/C' 



BAVARIAN 


•IHIILIII 1111!'1' •• 
"""'' lh lUI ( h.qllt"l 


OKTOBERFEST 
SEPrrEMBER 19~ 199M 
S:OU P.!\1.'1'0 !\1f(}NH;IIT 
\T ~IISBA WAKA BREWIN(; COMPANY J70J ~.!\lAIN STRFET !\11SIIAW \KA. IN 1, I, 2 ntdt·.., t';l\1 ol llrt' I i111versiiv ol No1rr I >alllt'l 
---r~~'----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Pat Meares had an HBI groundout. and Paul Molitor an HBI single off Steve Karsay in the ninth to bring Detroit within 8-6. Paul Assenmacher got the final out for his third save. 
Devil Rays 7, Yankees 0 
Tony Saunders pitched six 
scoreless innings and the 
Tampa Bay Devil Rays beat AL 
East champion New York 7-0 
Wednesday night for their first 
victory over the Yankees. 
The Yankees were the only 
AL team the expansion Devil 
Hays had not beaten. New 
York won the first six games of 
the season series, including 
four straight at Tropicana 
Field. 

Andy Pettitte (16-1 0) strug­
gled again for the Yankees, 
losing for the fourth time in six 
decisions. He gave up at least 
five runs for the sixth straight 
start, leaving after six innings 
with Tampa Bay ahead 6-0. 
The loss meant the Yankees 
cannot set the major league 
record for wins in a season. At 
104-46, the best they can do is 
match the mark of 116 victo­
ries by the 1906 Chicago Cubs. 
The AL record is 111 by the 
1954 Cleveland Indians. 
Saunders (6-14 ), who went 
16 starts without a victory 
early in the season, allowed 
five hits, struck out three and 
walked live. He is 5-5 since the 
All-Star break. 
Albie Lopez pitched two -innings and Hoberto 
Hernandez worked the ninth 
for Tampa Bay. The Yankees 
were shut out for the fifth time 
this season. 
Pettitte allowed four earned 
runs and seven hits, walking 
one and striking out three. 


Career Forum 
MBA & Undergraduate Students are invited to meet representatives from over 1oo companies! 
Today starting at 7:00p.m. 
and Career Panels and Informational Sessions to be held on Friday, September 18th, 9:30a.m.­
4:00p.m. 


Tht·n· wa~ a lahk st•l 0111 11111ler a huq_:t•r· ~ign in tht• lluddlt•, and lht• Marl'h llarc and the !latter ll'l'l'l' having tea :rt it. 
FOXTROT 
VtOEo GAME. S?.' PETE~, 
Ill BET You HAVEN'T 
EVEN TouCHED YouR 
MATH HoMEWORI<.J'IJ; 

"' \~ 

EJ '~ 

DILBERT BILL AMEND 

So WHAT Do GIVE ME SoME 
SHEESH, MoM! 
I oWE You;>

ONE LITTLE 
I ONLY 6oToNE 
QUESTION.
C~EDIT.I I'VE 

I SWEAR. QUESTtoN LEFT.' 
\ 

SCOTT ADAMS 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 26 Whacks hard 29 Former French 
1 Not roundabout province near 1 Let in on 
Flanders 11 Stomach 
31 Word with city 

muscles, lor or circle 
short 32 180° 
14 Red pencil 35Approvalwielder 36 Approval15 Devoted 37 Calm 
16 Champagne­38 Nickname for opening sound 
Michigan 11 Best Picture of 
40 "Excalibur"1950 

actor 19 Air pressure 
Williamson abbr. 
41 Keep secret. in 20 Start of a giant's away chant 
42 No-no at cards 21 Reporter's 
43 Rutabagacredit 
45 Hi and Lois's 22 Swing around 
pet 23Mr. 46 Mayberry Kadiddlehopper denizen 24 Mean 47 Loses it 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

50 Fertility lab supply 53--Jesse Jackson 
54 Classic palindrome 
56 Rachmaninoff's Symphony No. 2--minor 
57 Jejune 58 Port in ltalia 59 Mil. chief 60 Author Ferber 61 Main course 
DOWN 
1 Unpersuadable 2 Twiddling one's 
thumbs 3 Heat up 4 H. to a Greek 5 Saver of soles? 6 French poet 
Chretien de 
7 "Jour de Fete" 
director and 

star 26 Branch of 8 Kiln 39-Down 9 Have fun 27 Singer Paul 
10 H.S.T.'s 28 Site of a Knievel 
successor jump 11 Nonsense 29 Let up 12 Petty officer 30 Road nexus, 13 Did "Mission: 
proverbially Impossible" 32 Not much work 33 Folk dancer's 18 Port on the shoe 
Danube 34 Popular fashion 22 Oppressive magazine 23 Foes of Custer 36 "Arcadia" 25 "Wayne's 
playwright World" word 39 Sch. subject 


Wanted: Reporters, photographers· and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
40Sam 49 Zip, to Zapata Donaldson. e.g. 
50 Stench 42 Playwright Jean 
51 --of tears 43 Doughnut­
52 Friend of the shaped 
famille 44Fiip 
54 West of "I'm No 45 Not too smart Angel" 48 Tennis score 55 Quick to learn 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75~ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: (800) 762-1665. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: KiltY Wells, )eon Claude Killy. Peggr Lipt<>n, Elizabt'th Ashley 
Happy Birthday: Don't do any­thing drastic this year. You should be trying to maintain whc1t you havC', not trying to take on the wc1rld. This is not the best time to make changes but instead a period to nurture and pro­tect what 1·ou have already. You will accompli'h tlw most if )'ClU are patiPnt and willing to give t'thers thL• oppor­tunitl· tc> d0 their own things. Step back and t•njoy what you a Iread~· ha1•e. Your numbers: 3, 12. 21, 10. 39, ~~ 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Gl't busy. There's a lot to be done and it you don't reach y~..1ur de<~dline, you won't be in your boss's good buoks You can get a promotion if you pul in a little C\lra detail and son1t' long hour•. 00000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You are in a high cycle where travel. edu­cation and creative endt~avors arc.· concerned. Howeyer, you will haw h> bQ e\trenwll· careful when dealin~ with monev and inwstments. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Ynu ma~· han? prt~blerns with your li\·ing companions. Try not to gt•t baci<Pd into an~-corners. Disputes may start because ,,f" lack of honesty. Don't 1<'1 it be on l'<'ltr part. 000 · 
CAI\CER (june 21-july 22): \'Pu may lind vmrrself cau~ht in the mid­dle oi an argument that has n0thin~ to do· "·ith I'Oll. Don't take sides ii you wi5h tL~ remain con~enial with both parties. 000 
lEO (july 23-Aug. 221: Argument' with children or friends may lea1·c vou steaming. You may find that your 
.mger Stl'lllS from IL•nding or borrnw­mg morwy. Try not to tilkt• utlwro.; for grantt•d. 00000 
VmGO <Aug. 23-Sept. 22): l't-m­p<•rs will gl'l out ot hand lnda;·. Dun't ~tart an argument unless you'rl' prL'­pared to accept •rrt'Vllrsib)P result~. Bt• cautrou.o,; handlmg tooJs1 n1achinc.·n· or '>tlwr d.mgerous nbjt•ct,. 00 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Auth<>ri· t~· (igurc.•s may be les!-t than accon111111· dating ti you hai'L' done soml'thing underhamit•d. Make SUI'l' that all \'uur lt•gal papers and tr,1vel dorumt'nt~ 1Hl' in propt'r order. 0000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): o,n't ~~x~nd too much nn childn'n or t.'lltt•r­tainmt•nt. You may want to join ,1 club to \\'or!.. off thut t~xces~ cnt.'r~y; huw­t'\'t'r, consider w.1yo;; ol doing ju"\t that tor a lower price 000 
SAGIITARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 211: frawl \\'ill bring you tlw advc•nturl' ~1nd l'"-Citl'ment you n'qUire and at tlw ~clnlf..' timl' will sa\'e you from nli\ing, with mdividuals eager to contrc.1nt \'llll with ~111 unsavory situation. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-jan. 19): Yuu will ha\'e amilzing ideas, but e\­pt.•ct someone influential to trr ~1nd block yllllr attempts at implenwntin~ them You must gain the suppllrt of n>ur f'L'L'r' tirst. 000 
AQUAHIUS (jan. 20-feb. 18): Don't ol'~rspend on childrl'n or IMgt' purcha<l's Mnnitor rour budget C.ll'l'­full\" t<.t .n·oid unnecessan· stn.·s~. Y<.'ll ~hoi.dd ,·isH a friend ur idati\'l' \\'htl ha>n't bl'L'n well 0000 
PISCES (feb. 19-March 20): llc• carl'lul not to hurt Sllmeone's kt.•ling~ You 1qll be popular with acqu.Jin­tances; howe\'er, loved ones m.l\' t•nd up feeling ldt (nat and insecurl.' 00 
Birthday Baby: You've got ,111 tlw n~ht mon..·~ You (,\11 )ll'fSUdde ,lnY~'IW h' folio\\" ~-llUf lead and help )'llU ac.:ompJ,:-:;h \\"hatl'n.'r you set out tu do. y~,u·n· .1 qukk thmkt.•r and a resourceful indl\"iduJI wht' c,,n ill'hievl: lll1\' dn.·.1m th.11 ~·uu pursue 
t\:eed ach•ice' C1ll EU!!;L'Ilio .11 qoo-~8oi-7H2i Your phonL' comp.my \\'ill bill vou 51 qq per minule.) 
• tu''' L :•·,l·r...,ll'n.·.... ~, nd11.1h· 



-


• Sosa hits grand slam 
• Notre Dame men's 
to tie McGwire for big­

and women's basketball 
league lead .
schedules released. 









PORTS 
p.22 
O THE 
• Mn{s Soccrn 

Freshman Walton earns respect for Irish offense 


The Observer/Brett Hogan 

Freshman Shane Walton moves the ball past a defender in a recent game. Walton has emerged as a key member of the Irish offensive unit, and has been twice named Big East Rookie of the Week. 



Belles rung up in Kalamazoo 
By KATHERINE LEWANDOWSKI 
Sports Writer 
After coming off a successful and exciting tournament week­end in St. Louis, the Saint Mary's soccer team was ready for anything. Although the 20­member team came out strong, they were not able to match the aggressiveness of Kalamazoo. They played tough, but the Belles were still defeated 10-0. yesterday after­noon. 
The o!Tonse worked hard at 

-
moving the ball up field, but they were unable to get past the stingy Kalamazoo defense. 
On defense. the Belles were tested time and again. Goalie Joanne Wagner was truly test­ed throughout the entire game. She came through with an impressive 19 saves. 

"All we need to do is focus more as a team," said Wagner. "More importantly, we need to forget about the past and con­centrate on our future as a team. We have a very talented and strong group, and once we The Observer/Beth Mayer 


The Saint Mary's soccer team was unable to match Kalamazoo's talent see SMC 1page 19 level yesterday. 
By ANTHONY BIANCO 
Sports Writer 
Just two weeks into thP sea­son, the Irish have a freshman whose play makes him look like a veteran. 
Shane Walton. a forward from San Diego, Calif., leads the Irish attack with liv11 of the team's 12 goals. Starting in all four games thus far. he has scored in each of the them. His necessary contributions have earned him consecutive Big East rookie of the week honors for the two weeks the confer­ence has given out the award this year. 
"I think if I'm playing well. the team will do just fine. Right now, I'm still getting comfortable with the team. They're doing everything they can do to help me achi1we that," commented Walton. 
It's ironic that for a fn~sh­man still relying on upper­classmen to get him settled, it is the team that counts on Walton to help rejuvenate the Irish attack. Quick and atldet­ic, Walton repres(mts a "go-to" forward on the lield. When a drive breaks past the midlield and makes its way to the net, Walton is usually in the equa­tion that has, more often than not, resulted in a shot on goal. Whether scrambling in the box or in the air, the Irish have counted on the freshman to get the job done. 
"His contribution is very apparent," said co-captain Matt Johnson. "In the past, wo really haven't had someone to go to and count on to score a lot of goals for us. With Shane, we can count on him scoring the goals." 
But the total rnsult for tlw team nxt1mds way beyond just the goals that Walton knocks in himself. llis explosive styli' is exaetly what Notre Damn was looking for to spark tlw offensn. Thus far, the team is averaging three goals a game. almost twice as many as tlw 
1.8 mark they posted last year. 
Opponents are aware that although Walton lnads thP offense, the thn)at to seorP is just as gn)at among all thn attackers. Forward Hyan Cox has returned to the lineup after injuries sidelirwd him last year to crank out two of his own with livu assists. Prior to . an injury against Northwestern. Scott Wells has steppnd up with a goal and an assist in two gamns. Andrew Aris. Ben Bocklage, and Heggie McKnight have also had similar opportunities this year. 
"Ev1~ryon n's really prdty comfortable with Sharw. lie's adapted well to tlw way we play. lie's really been a posi­tive contribution to the team," commented Cox. 
The Irish hope that as teams focus their defense on contain­ing Walton, the plays will con­tinue to develop. 
"I think its going to be tough for him to score as the season progresses. The teams are going to see that we go to him. 
see WALTON I page 20 

vs Purdue Volleyball
vs. New Hampshire 

September 26, I :30 p.m. at Defiance College 
Friday, 5 p.m. 


SPORTS 

~ S(t
@ ~-Friday, 6:30 p.m. 
vs. Rutgers 

-Cross Country 
ATA 
\~ 
Friday, 7:30p.m. 

at National Catholic Soccer
.,
,.·:::i:::· ··::~:·. 

at Rutgers Inviational vs. Anderson College 
s~u: 
t: ''JW Friday, 7 p.m. Friday, 3:30 p.m. Saturday, I p.m.
GLANCE 





