
Campaign gains speed 
Monica Lewinsky finally speaks out 

Thursday
¦ Rill Bradley's campaign funds will be 

¦ Barbara Walters captured the first interview wirh 
matched by federal government. 

Lewinsky last night. 
MARCH 4, 

News• 9 

NeWS• 7 
1999 
THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 102 WWW. ND.EDU/~OBSERVER 


Contest dares students to imagine Notre Daine 2020 
By LAURA UBERTI tunity to prnscnt the vicwbook "We've given very few para­Contest judges includ1: things." Nrw, Wri1t'r to tlrn Bi\C at next year's nrnters," said Sarah Knapp, Knapp, Carolyn Woo, dean of' "Wo don't know what's mer.ting in latfl September. assistant to the dean of the the College of Husiness, Ed going to happen," said Knapp. 
Students will havt• the SPcond and third prizes am Trubac, and Rill Nichols, asso­"Them am no right or wrong opportunity to prndict the $700 and $500. respectively. ciate deans and Jim Davis, answers. Students should look l'uturn and mak<• some monoy Students can work in groups academic director of the Gigot at today to predict the
'THE STUDENTS SHOULD 
wilil<· they'rp at it, thanks to of up to f'ivn people to predict Center for Entrepreneurial future." tho "Noln~ Danw in lhP Nr.w what Notre Dame will be like TAKE THE CLUE.5 IN Studies. The idea for the contest Mill111111ium" contest ollcrnd 20 years into tho now millen­"We will look for something aros11 during a B/\C meoting,
THE PRE.SENT TO PREDICT 
by tliP Collcgi~ or Business nium. The presentations will that is creative but that where attendants selected /\dminislratinn's llusincss be evaluated on their inter­NOTRE DAME'S FlITURE•.' makes sense. The students "Learning and Working in a /\dvisory Council (B/\C). pretations of campus life, stu­should take tho clues in tho New Millennium," as the Thirt1wn groups will partic­dent profile, curriculum present to predict Notre theme for next year's meot­
ED TURBAC

ipal<' in thr. rnntnst. which issues, lrarning environment Dame's future," said Trubac. ing. chall1~ngns frnshnrnn, sopho­and spiritual life. Criteria will ASSOCIATE DHAN OF BUSINESS "We want the judges to say, The advisory council wanted morns and juniors lo crnate a also include viewbook theme 'I've never thought of it that to know what students viPwhook !'or prospective stu­and visual presentation. The College of Business. "We want way before.' We're counting thought about the future of dP nts in tlw yPar 2020. First project can Im in any format studcnts to be as creative as on the students' entries to business and tho future of prizl' is $1,;iOO and tlw oppnr-from book to video to website. possible." bring a fresh perspective to 
see CONTEST/ page 4 
Soberathon raises funds for area treatment center 
By ERIN PIROUTEK 
Nc-w!k \'\'ritcr 
Whilr• somP Notre Damn students givP up c:hocolatn or yo-(:rcam l'nr Lnnt, otlwrs am giving up alcohol to raise money for the lciss fortunate. 
l'rocnmls from participating in Solwralhon will go to Life Treatment Ct•ntPrs. an organization helping imli­gcnt mPn and women overcome alco­hol. drug and gambling addiction. 
Solwrathon participants choose to givP up alcohol for a sdf-prescribnd 1wriod of' time: a month, a Wfink, or 1•vc11 a day. Stud1mts collect pledges frnrn friPmls and l'arnily members or do11alP tlw 1110111•y tlwy would have s1wnl on ah:ohol. 
Thi• studPnl who raises the most money will win two plane tick1\lS to any dnstination in tlw UnitPcl St.atns. the C:arihhc,an or l\foxico. 
HPla Swlay, dtwnlopnwnt ollicPr l'or Lif'n Trcatmrmt CcmtPrs, estimates that r,5 pnrrPnt of the clinnts arn honrnless. 
.l1i1111if'1•r Sundborg, a two-year Solwrathon participant, lrncanrn 

involved aftnr working at Lil'n Trnatmcmt CPnters. 
"If I hadn't worked thern. I wouldn't have realized how much these pnople genuinely net\d our help," said senior Sundberg. 
Last year's Soberathon raised $1,200, according to Szalay. With air­line tickets as the new first prize, he hopns that this year's Soberathon prof­it will exceed $2,500. 
To reach this goal. Szalay stressed the nnl'd for increased campus aware­ness. C:urrnntly, 10 Notrn Dame dorms am participating and no Saint Mary's dorms arc involved. 
"Drinking on campus is so popular; pc~ople an\n't willing to givl' that up," said .lush lleinlein, Zahm llall fresh­man. l le stressed that despite the chal­lcmge, Sobnrathon is a positive r.xpnri­cncc which berrnlits a vnry good cause. 
Sundberg felt that the low participa­tion "was not a rPnection of lack of' stu­dnn t conc11rn. but a lack of awarc­rwss." 
Tlrn Soberat.hon can begin at any time during Lent. 
What's that bike doing in that tree? 

¦ 'UOENT SENATE 



Palumbo: 'Intend to give I00 percent of myself' 

By ERICA THESING Michael Palumbo, Student said. "I nxpnct 100 percnnt of Assistant News E<liro1 Union secretary. mystdf. I'm sure you expoet Palumbo, who was recnntly I 00 percnnt of me. That's 
Tho Student Senate was elected student body vice what I intend lo give." unable to officially commence president, announced to the its wer.kly meeting Wednesday senators that he will resign In other snnaln rrnws: us only 19 of the 28 senators from his secretarial position, • /\ndr,ia Snlak, studnnt w1H"e present. effective Friday. Palumbo body vice prnsidc>nl, 
"Thi' Constitution requires receivAd a standing ovation. nn nou nc1HJ tha l norn i11 a I.ions thrce-f'ourths of the senate to "Thank you everyone," he for tlrn Irish Clover and 
be present for business to be said. "I don't know if I dosnrve O'Mallny Undnrgraduatn conduct.Pd," said Stephen all that, but thanks." T n n c h in g /\ w a rd s a re cl ti!! Sanchez. parliamentarian. He explained that juggling Wednesday. March 17. "ThPro was never a meeting, his responsibilities as sllcre­The two Irish Clovnr /\wards basically." tary and as incoming vice honor one student and 0110 
Instead of debating nnd vot­presidflnt jeopardized his per­administrator or University ing on their agnncla for the formance. He nmphasizcd that employee who gavn trr.men­evening, which included a it was a difficult decision to dous servicn to the student revised version of a lntter to make. but that the timing was body, Selak said. tho Board of Fellows, the sen­right. The O'Malley award honors a to rs present discussed "When I do something ... I one undergraduate professor. announcements and honored put really 100 percent in," he 
see SENATE / page 4 
page 2 The Observer• INSIDE Thursday, March .•::.1~9 
¦ INSIDE COLUMN 

W'sup Neck! 
My imagination is so whacked out that I'm 
not surprised if I end up trapped in a person­
al realitv, isolated from the outside world. Mv 
imagination brings images and scenes tha\ 
overlap my physical 
senses. This results in C.R. "Teo" Teodoro 
behavior that many lllustrarion• Editor 
people t'eel is strange 
and unusual. 
Normally, this isn't a problem, bul some­
times I say things aloud that come from my 
imagination. Take for instance this guy in 
The Observer office called Tim Logan. For 
obvious masons, I call him "Weapon X." If 
you understand this. then you know where 
I'm coming from If you don't, here's a little 
hint: bczerker rage and adamantium fury. 
I also have a unique personal way of using 
language. I sometimes refer to people as 
"Neck." For example, a person approaches 
me and greets me, "Hi Teo!" I respond, 
"W'sup Neck!" Several people have asked 
about the etymology of "Neck." It comes from 
the little-used word "pinneck," which was 
derived from the popularly known "pinhead." 
Over the years, the term "pinneck" was trun­
cated to the present, less derogatory "Neck," 
in the process, the new term lost its former, 
demeaning definition. 
I do, of course, have quirks that do not 
involve diction. One of my notable features is 
my shades, without which I am rarely seen. 
Before coming to Notre Dame, I slept during 
the day and awoke at night. (I was rumored 
to be a vampire because I only visited my 
friends at dusk and would leave just before 
dawn.) Since then, my eyes have become 
accustomed to the dark and require the con­
stant use of shades. This adds to my own, 
undeniable sense of style. When people ask 
why I wear my shades. I simply cock an eye­
brow, grin and say, "Because when you are 
as cool as I am, the sun shines on you 24 
hours a day! Ugh!" There is an emphasis on 
the last "Ugh!" 
One of my teachers commented that I 
always wear black. That's not true; I some­
times wear my mighty fruit muscle-pants. 
But why do I dress up all in black most of the 
time? Am I in perpetual mourning that only I 
know and others can only guess? Is it 
because I feel sense of morbidity in the world 
and my dress reflects the emptiness and 
melancholy that haunts my soul? Do the 
black clothes only perpetuate my feelings of 
dark fate that I have learn to accept and give 
up hope? Am I trying to remain incognito by 
masking myself in darkness to blend in with 
the night which hide my otherwise question­
able actions? 
Nah, 1just look cool in black! 
I don't know, maybe I'm just strange. Or 
maybe it is just the campus. Or maybe it's 
because I'm from a foreign land, and we do 
things difTerently there. Just tell me the next 
time you 're in California. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
¦ TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Maggy Tinucci Julia Gillespie Mike Romanchek 
Graphics Erin Piromek 
Christen Manary Sports 
Production Bill Hare 
Kerry Smith Viewpoint John Pennacchio Dustin Ferrell Lab Tech Joe Stark 
The Observer (USPS 5'19 2-4000) i, published Monday ,hro"gh Frid,y cxc~pr during exam and vac.arion p~riods. Tht Observer is a member of the As:.oi.:i;m:d P.rc:s::.. All reproduction righrs arc re.served, 





utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Couple seeks 'intelligent, athletic' egg donor, offers $50,000 
PRINCETON, N.J, "They just want a child who will feel comfortable in their family." 
Those are the words of Darlene Pinkerton, a representative for the family who placed a newspaper advertisement Monday offering $50,000 to potential egg donors. 
The ad. which ran in The Daily Princetonian -as well as in campus newspapers at Harvard. Yale, University of Pennsylvania, Stanford, 
M.I.T. and CalTech -has sparked nation\\-ide controversy because of the specific characteristics it requests of egg donors. 
The ad asks for "intelligent, athletic" candidates who are "at least 5'10", have a 1490+ SAT score fandJ possess no major family medical issues." 
According to Pinkerton, who is coor­dinating the family's efforts through the San Diego law firm of Hitt & Pinkerton. the advertisers included 

However. she noted, if the child "is 5'2" or gets less than a 1400, are they gonna love it Jess? Absolutely not." 
While Pinkerton said the family. which is white. would not want a donor from another ethnic group, "ifs not about being racist al. all. It's all about trying to have the child fit in with the family. [The child] would have a harder time in lifP" growing up with parents of a different race, she said. 
Bioethics Forum president Dan Kraus '00, who helped organize this past weekend's bioethics conference, said he found the ad "misleading" if all the parents want is a child who looks like thorn. "The way the ad is stated, it's almost reminiscent of eugenics ~ like trying to create the ideal person," he said, 
"I think there's nothing wrong with having a screening process for poten­tial egg donors," Kraus said. "But it could've been done more privately." 
Molecular biology professor Lee Silver supported the family's decision. "Ii makes absolutely no sense for them to have a random egg donor," ho said. He added that the parents should be able to choose the type of donor they want. 

¦ Umvrnsirv OF PITTSBURGH 
Semester at sea lands on Cuban shores 
PITTSBURGH 

Pitt junior Raymond Houston was not sure what to expect when he stepped off the Semester at Sea ship and onto Cuban soil, but he came away profoundly impressed. "What surprised me most was how nice the people were," he said. "They were so welcoming and open to me.... They live in such a poor situation but are so happy. I'm truly in awe of this country." The Semester at Sea ship, the S.S. Universe Explorer, cruised into Havana in the early morning hours on Feb. 19, to begin a historic three­day visit to the forbidcl.en communist island nation. Although Havana is a popular destination for Canadian and European tourists, Americans have not been allowed to visit there since the implementation of a U.S. trade and travel blockade in 1962. But this visit, the largest by a group of Americans since Fidel Castro's revolution in 1959, was more than a rare chance for American students to stock up on Cuba's famous cigars and rum. 
¦ UN!VERSlTY OF ARIZOI\IA 
Social Security numbers posted on Web 
TUCSON, Ariz. 

An Arizona student leader questioned the security of students' information Friday after discovering hundreds of Social Security number segments on the university's websites. "I think the last four numbers could be dan­gerous to the students," said Sam Leyvas, executive director of Arizona Students Association. The University of Arizona allows professors to display partial Social Security numbers, coupled with test scores and grades in some cases, on unprotected Internet websites. "It is not illegal to use a part of the Social Security number," said UA attorney Michael Proctor. "I encourage profes­sors to use a different number because of the sensitivity surrounding Social Security numbers." He said the post­ings do not violate the Family Education Hights and Privacy Act, which governs the use of personally-identi­fiable information including Social Security numbers. 
But The Arizona House of Representatives supported 
¦ HA!WARO UNIVERSITY Professor charged with embezzlement 
CAMBHIDGE, Mass. 

Donald Kirks, former chief of the radiology department at Children's Hospital and former Harvard Medical School {HMS) professor, was formally charged by the U.S Attorney's office on Monday for embezzling more than $70,000 from the Children's Hospital radiology Foundation while he was its president. If convicted, Kirks could face up to five years imprisonment and $250,000 in fines. The foundation is a nonprofit group of doctors who practice at the hospital. Kirks, a pediatric radiologist and former Kirkpatrick professor of radiology at HMS, once was frequently asked to speak at conventions and univer­sities around the world. He was forced to resign from his position at Children's Hospital -an affiliated hospital of HMS -in February 1998 when the foundation's board of directors charged that since January 1995, he had been wrongfully "double-billing" both the foundation and his hosts for travel expenses to speaking engagements. 
¦ Omo STATE UN1vrns!Tv 
Faculty warned about copyright laws 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 

Faculty members need to bo wary of copyright laws when trying to use Internet-based distance education, according to an Ohio State associate legal counsel. "The Internet is really one big photocopier," said Steven McDonald, associate legal counsel for Ohio State's Office of Legal Affairs. Each time a user views a Web page, a copy is created on the hard drive of the user's comput­er. McDonald and Trisha Davis, an assistant professor with University Libraries, spoke to faculty members on Tuesday about copyright and licensing laws as they apply to the Internet and distance education. The gov­ernment has not yet established firm guidelines to deal with the conOicting interests of educational institutes and publishers, McDonald and Davis said. Their speech­es were part of the Conference on Intellectual Properties, which was sponsored by Technology Enhanced Learning and Hesoarch. 
¦ Sourn BENO WEATHER ¦ NATfONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Mar. 4.
AccuWeather@forecast for daytime conUitions and high tempt!rntures 
I 

Thursilay Friday 
d:2 Saturday ~*58 48 Sunday ~.. 62 52 
COLD WARM STATIONARV 
P,.s,ure:

Mo~day .. (,,,~ 64 52 ® © 

~-->:"''\f'···-...., / '\.{' High LOW Showers Rain T-atorma. FlurtiH snow Ice Sunny Pt, Cloudy Cloudy 

C 1999 AccuWeather, Inc. 
v,a Associated Press 
Albuquerque 74 34 Boston 44 36 


~,~,~8.Q.Q tJ ~ u 
Denver 53 31 

ViaAssoeiatad Press GrsphicsNat 
Eureka 49 37 

Cincinnati 43 24 Showers T-storms Ram F1U,;ies S~o·-:; Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 

Farmington  47  38  K<1lamazoo  38  21  
Gainesville  61  37  Las Vegas  69  53  
Hunlinglon Bch.  64  51  Milesville  17  3  
Ipswich  32  17  New Orleans 68  37  
Jefferson Cily  58  23  Orlando  67  46  


Thursday, March 4, 1999 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Bradley urges religious focus

Observer announces new General Board By DEREK BETCHER Assistant Nrws Editor 
Midwllr Krupa, editor-in-chief elect of The Observer, announced tlrn newspaper's 1999-2000 General Board WPdnesday. 
Tlw 1-:tlitorinl and Operations Boards comprise the Gennral Board. The Editorial Board is hendcd by manag­ing nditor Shannon Hyan and assistant managing editor I.aura l'ntolle whiln husirrnss managor Dave Rogoro heads tho Operations Board. 
All 1 ')IJ9-2000 General Board members will assume tlrnir rnspoctivn positions Monday, March 15. 
EDIT0HIAL B<lAHD 
• 
Tim Logan, a Siegfrind llall sophomore from Boston, Mass., will sr>rvP us the nnws '1ditor. 

• 
Tlw Vil'wpoint sor.tion will he headed by Cavanaugh Itall junior Colleen Gaughen of' Garden Grove, Culif. 

• 
Stanford Hall sophomore Brian Krissler or East Northport, NY, will servo as sports editor. 

• 
The Scone edilor will be Mike Vanegas, a Keenan llall junior from Chandler, Ariz. 

• 
Colleen McCarthy, a Lo Mans Hall" sophomore from Saukvill11, Wisc., will be the Saint Mary's editor. 

• 
Carroll junior Kevin Dahun of' Marshfield, Wisc., will continue in his position as photo editor. 


OPEHATIONS 130AllD 
• 
Bryan Lutz, a Morrissey Hall junior from Phoenix, Ariz., will continue his tenure as advertising manager. 

• 
The systems manager will be Mike Hovers, a Zahm llall junior from Naperville, Tll. 

• 
Keenan Hall sophomore Tim Lane of Kettering, Ohio, will serve as the controller. 

• 
Joe Mueller, a Knott llall sophomore from O'Neill, Neb .. will be the graphics editor. 


Tho Observer is still accepting applications for ad design manager and Web administrator. Interested undorgraduato and graduate studonts should submit a resume and throe-page letter of intent to Krupa in the newspaper's office, 024 South Dining Hall, as soon as possible. 
By KRISTIN FITZPATRICK 
News Writer 
Thn Apostolic !utter "Ex cordr, Ecclnsiae." IFrom tlrn lleart ol' thn Churr.h]. has important implications l'or Notre Dame and Saint Mary's in that it strnsscs certain canon laws which nmphasizc tlrn importancn ol' maintaining Catholic teachings in rncogniznd Catholic universi­ties, acrording lo (;nrard Bradley, Notre Darno law profos­sor and president of' the Fellowship of Catholic Scholars in a lecture Wednesday nighl. 

Thnse laws, which were added to thr. cannon in 1983, statn that all Catholic universitir.s shall have a m,~jority of Catholic fac­ulty nrnmbcrs. Thcsn mnmbers should uphold tho integrity ol' the Catholic rnligion. It l'urtlrnr stales all prof'nssors of theology shall have a mandate or license from the local bishop that quali­fins lhnm lo teach on matters of faith and morals according to "No school can be more Catholic than its faculty," said Gerard Catholic doctrine. 
Bradley, Notre Dame law professor advocating the pope's vision for catholic institutions to hire more religious educators.
The American Council of Bishops will discuss and possibly vote on whether or not to imple­stated that the "Ex corde lnarning are fully distinguislrnd ment the principles set out in Ecclesiae" is a dead letter and from their sncular counterparts. this letter when it meets in that there is no practical reason Bradley IH!linves that not November. for it to be revived. Further, the implementing tho concepts put 
Faith may grow among stu­practice of receiving a license to forth in this letttff is a "wasted dents because of this letter, teach Catholic doctrine has been opportunity" for the grnatlff according to Bradlny. universally resisted in the theo­foundation of' faith in young peo­
"No school can be more logical community. ple. Catholic than its faculty," Criticism of this letter among Malloy has openly stated that Bradley said. "I think that this the Association of Catholic there will he no mandates al would foster an opportunity for (olleges and Universities results Notre Dame. Upon approval or students to look to more of the from a potential loss of funding the letter, the university h'1ads faculty as Catholic role models." and accreditation if they are put have to decide whether they 
Since the canon was rewritten directly under the control of the wish to follow the laws and have in 1983, no institution or bishop Vatican, as well as a loss of the University b11 recognized as has followed these laws. respect from secular colleges Catholic by the bishops, or 
University president Father and universities. ignore them and be simply a Edward Malloy, in an article for The pope. however, believes university founded on the the Jesuit magazine "America," Catholic institutions of higher Catholic tradition. 





Yum. 
/ 
Choose from Strawberry, Blueberry, Tangerine, Grape or Lime. 
Your special student price $1,135 
© 1998 Apple Computer, Inc. Alf rights reserved. The Apple logo is a registered trademark and iMac is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. Power PC is a trademark ofIBM Corp. 

page 4 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 4, I999 
committee met Monday to revise its letter to the Board

Senate Old cable causes blackoutof Fellows regarding its deci­
continued from page 1 
Students may nominate any­one for thrse awards Ly sub­mitting a letter to the student. government officP. 
• The Academic Affairs committee is continuing its work on a proposal for chang­ing the tost-takin),{ conditions at Stopan Centor. Thc> propos­al includes rcplaci11g tlic desks current.Iv usfld there with tables and chairs that would allow students more room for test-taking materi­als. The largest hurdle so far is concerns from professors about the possibilities of cheating when se.ated al tablfls, said Drew Olcjnik. Academic Affairs conimittec chair. 
"I liav,~ a problem with that because we have the honor code," he said. 
• The Gender Relations 
Contest 
continued from page 1 
Notrc Dame. 
"We thought the students would offer a unique persµec­tiV('. They have Pxpericncecl Notre IJame and thr.y know its traclitions, but tbev am awan• that remarkable c;hangcs will take place," said Trubac. ''Our queslion to students is, 'I-low will !you! reconcile the tradi­tional nature of a university, especially Notre Dame. with changes in how education is delivered in the next 20 years? Will we maintain tradi­tion in an age of change?'" 
Sophomore Meaghan Flaherty and her three room­mates decided to enter the contest as a team. 
"I thought it would be fun to do when I saw the e-mail." said Flaherty, a business major. "We thought it would be fun to be creative and think of things to say." 
Flaherty plans to spend three hours a week on the entry until the end "when we have to finish everything. Until then, we have to 
Interest·•-• writin news 
news meeting. Sunday·at 5:00 in the.· 
basement of SDH. 
Or Call·.... Timiat·;> 1-5.323. 
sion on the non-discrimina­tion clause. 
The Senate voted 18-7 last wePk to send the letter back to the committee for revisions after concerns arose regard­ing harsh language in the let­ter. 
"l think the letter that camp, out is a lot different than it was before and it's very good," said Sophie Fort.iii. Gender Relations committee 
chair. 
• Proposals for paril~tals changes are possible in the next few w1-rnks. said Matt Mamak, Residence Life com­mittee chair. 
The senate conducted a sur­vc y of students regarding parietals. The group will explorn punishment revisions after considering overnight violations and visiting hour changes for family members on football weekends. 
research and come up with a plan." 
Observer Staff Report 
Riley Hall was in the dark Tuesday night after an old powl'r cabll' malfunctioned and cut off tho flow of electricity to Lhr building. 
The outage occurred at around 8 p.m. Tuesday. Power was not restored until early Wednesday morning when utility workers con­nected a temporary cable from nearby Hayes­Healy, according to James Lyphout, associate vice president for Business Operations. The building has been reopened and most class­rooms and offices are functioning as usual. 
"This sort of thing happens with agA," Lyphout said, noting that a now cable would have to be installed. Replacing this line will take place this weekend and should bf' completed bv Monday. · 
Power has been restored to most of the build­ing, which houses classrooms, offices and art studios. However. heavy energy consumrrs, including Riley's elevator, are still inopflrable because the temporary power cable cannot han­dle the volume of electricity required to run them. 
"We can't get enough power over there to run the big consumers," Lyphout said. "But most of the things run hy elflctricity an~ up and run­ning." 


[_ ---­

Thur.,day, March 4, I999 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page S 
¦ WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Cargo planes nearly collide above Kansas 
WASIIINGTON 

Two larg1· cargo pla11cs almosl collided 
:U.000 i'!Wl ov11r Kansas af'tor apparunlly 
losing radin contact with an air traf'fic con­
trol f.!\llll'I". The Washington l'ost reportnd 
WNl1wsday. The incident Tuesday involved 
u FPrlPral Express MrDonrwll Douglas DC­
IO trav,di11g from Portland to Memphis and 
an l\mPrican lntnrnational Airways 
l.orklwml L-IO 11 t\ll routl' from Los Angnks 
lo lndimiapolis. One crnw said it might have 
conw as dos1\ as I00 fo!'l to a sm:ond plane. 
aviation sources told lhn l'ost. r\ir traffic 
rontrollPrs n•porled that thn two planes 
llll'rgPrl into onn targnt. 011 radar as thn con­
lrollors atlfimpLl'd to 1islablish contact. The 
incidPnl happPnPd lwtwn1>n I0:40 a.m. and 
10::iO a.m. local time about :m milns w<1st of 
Salina, Kan.. tlw l'osl said. 
Father attacks teacher over daughter's report card 
BOSTON 

WhP11 his daughlnr brought homn a near­rai li 11g grade on lwr report card, Dale Hohinson got angry -hut not with her. Hobinson. 35. was chargnd Wednesday with walking into thn girl's school and beating up lwr malh teachnr, brnaking some of his t1•nth. "Wc1 anticipatn some parnnls will always lw concerned or unsatisfind around report card time," said the school headmas­ter. Shwnn Lnonard. "But in this case, the valu!1 system seems to bn a little warped." T1rnchnr Antonio Cnntcio had givnn Hobinson's daughtnr -a high-school senior -a ll-minus in conduct and effort. On T1rnsday morning. Hobinson arrived al the .lriremiah Burkn lligh School and confrontl'd Cm1t1iio in a hallway. "lie chased the teacher down and punched him in the head twice," Lnonard said. 
Canada considers legalizing 
medicinal marijuana 
OTTAWA 

Canada's health minister has authoriznd c:linii'.al Lrials to dntermine if marijuana is a usdul mmlicine for people suffering from lnrminal illnessns and other painf'ul condi­tions. But the minister. Allan Hock, stressed during dnbat,~ in Parliament Wednesday that tlH1 ch~rision did not nrnan the government was moving toward wider legalization or marijuana for rncn•ational purposes. "Thero ari• Canadians who are suffering from termi­nal illnesses, who are in pain or suffering l'rom di!Tirnlt symptoms, who believe that smoking medical marijuana can help with th1iir symptoms," Hock said. "Thnrn's all kincls of' anncdotal nvidnnce. Tlrnre's no sri­nnlilic nvidence. "' 

Dow 
AMEX: 659.94
]ONES 
-3.06 Nasdaq:
9275.88 
n 
2265.20 -6.17 NYSE: 582.55 
.().J') S&I' 500: 1227.70 
Composite ~ +2.20 

Volume:-21.73 7,522,91 S 
VOLUME LEADERS 
~ n~u•~N:r: "l!f~EH ·~1 rH,~tiit1; J !iAJ~ l'BlrE ll'OMCOltft COMS .~).(N -2.H(XI 2456 INll I. CURI• INTC +4 ,&4 +-4.H.77~ IH.69 n.l~l'AtJ. LUM!'. Cl'() +5.'t'J ?l.7.SZ~ .ll.69 !>[I.I. CllMP\1 rm DEi.i. +H,l) +-2.H.1'7~ HO'J4 Mll'lt<l\tWI Cl>ltl' MSF1 +1),7\ + LOS.75 140.62 ('l.)C'.ll SY5li-:M.'l csco •H.,W ·0.5675 9S.IZ 1tf'M'.!.f,COI-I.P t)RCI. OJ-lH -O..l125 '.!.l!XI AMI.A ONLINf AOt +0 ..lb •0..11::!:~ H7.()(J \H I WOKl.lln.JM IN WCOM +H,O +O..SoC)O ~I.Ob ~ovn.1.1~( NOVI. +4.SM +0.87.10 2000 
¦ Kosovo 

ASSOCIATED PRESS Infantry fighting vehicles and son to fire on villages," said Milan trucks loaded with army troops and Komnenic, adding that the govern­PRISTINA carrying heavy weapons rumbled ment troops were only fighting with 
Humanitarian workers took advan­through the border zone before KLA guerrillas. tage of a lull in lighting to rush aid returning to a base at Urosevac, Yugoslav forces are trying to assert Wednesday to thousands of displaced halfway between the capital of control over the Macedonian frontier ethnic Albanians massed along Pristina and the main Macedonia­amid a heightened threat of action by Kosovo's border with Macedonia. Kosovo border crossing. NATO forces assembling just across 
Defying NATO warnings. Yugoslav About 4,000 people have been dis­the border in preparation for enforc­army and Serbian police forces have placed by the recent clashes, U.N. ing a peace deal in Kosovo. pounded suspected Kosovo refugee agency spokesman Fernando Army troops have mined part or the Liberation Army rebel positions del Mundo said. Some have crossed border and rigged a key bridge with along the border for several days. into Macedonia or found shelter explosives. Clearing the border of 
The fighting has cast increasing within Kosovo, while several hundred civilians would help secure the corri­doubt on the chances for success remain stuck on mountain slopes in dor. when suspended peace talks resume cold weather. NATO has threatened airstrikes March 15 in Prance, although there Aid agencies sent food, blankets, against Serb forces if the Yugoslav was evidence Wednesday that the mattresses, medicine and other items government does not accept the Kosovo Albanian delegation is ready to the flashpoint area in southern peace plan when talks resume. to sign a peace deal calling for broad Kosovo. a province in Serbia, the In Brussels, Belgium, chief negotia­autonomy. main republic in Yugoslavia. tor Christopher Hill said the KLA is 
Yugoslav forces refrained from Yugoslavia's information minister prepared to sign the Hambouillet attacks on rebel positions Wednesday accused Kosovo Albanians or trying peace plan. Although Serb authori­but sent a convoy of armored vehi­to "stage a simulated humanitarian ties continun to oppose a Nr\TO-lnd cles through the strategically impor­catastrophe. implementation force, he was posi­tant area in a show of strength. "The [Yugoslav] army has no rea-tive about the plan's prospects. 
¦ NIGERIA 
Election results cause deadly riots 
AssoctATED PRESS cal anti-government group A burly police officer including eight bystanders 
call(;ld Odudua attacked a nervously aimed an auto­hit by stray police bullots. 
LAGOS .poliee. station near Lagos' matic rifle at pedestrians The report could not be 
Militants stono.d five wo:rktng•class neighbqr-who dodged behind mar• independently confirmed. policemen to death and hood o( Moshin, ket stalls. "We arti keop-"Th,l people am angry set their station ablaze Residents said five ing the peace.'' he said. about tho elections. But Wednesday. Security policemen were beaten Frightened young this violence is not the forces retaliated by firing and stoned to death after schoolgirls in pink uni• answer." said Mike Obi. into crowds as anger over being dragg(ld from the forms wore caught in tho an accountant who saw lhe results of' Nigeria's station. Later, police fired mlddle of the mayhem. two bystanders killed by presidential cloction live ammunition and tear They were ordered by the stray police bullets. exploded into street bat-gas at crowds in Moshin. police to run past with Tho gutted carcasses of I.Jes. Officers in riotgear sin-their hands up to show six police cars smolderod 
At least eight people gled 01Hyoung men In the they were unarmed. next to the blackened, wqre killed Wednesqay in prP'\Y~S<and.savagelybeat , Lagos police commis­smoking ruins of the elecUon,related viglenpe: ;J~~ltl: with. whips,,xifl.e stoner Sunday Aghedo police station. wftM~SC!S st\Jd...····.other ' bJJ~rs:11.l).dpitlC(lS of:tbn.b(lrf ',calleilthe post:.election Another mob set firP to reports cited. U:p to u :~fn)9l0d < . ; vet)lcles ·. ilghthig "embarrassing, one floor of a police bar• deaths. · patroHed the streets> nau~eating and disturb-racks at Oyagbo, 10 miles 
Violence has plagued . . A' you.ng man with a ing," and said security away . parts of Lagos since bandaged hand screamed iorces in the city hnd been Odudua, which wants a Olusegun Obasanjo won for mercy as laughing increased to contain th,, separate country for thEi Saturday's presidential pfa.inclothes policemen problem. Yoruba tribe that domi­election. The latest blood-struck him with whips. A Lagos radio station nates southw{istern shed apparently began . '.'.What have l done? What reported at least 14 peo­Nigeria, is also blamed for when members of a radi• have I done?" he cried. ple had been killed, a gasoline-bombing. 

page 6 The Observer• NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, March 4, 1999 
T:r'­loses·--_ .< .... •·-• ·•----_-.. >.-... 
Asoociated Press "I was shocked by· th!s vfgpJta:. ; 
case. I had no. idea 1h.o•.; 

INDIA.tllo4APOLIS these people we.re.'' > 
A federal jury:° early.. The developerf!aidJi Thursday a.warded $,1.3 mil•. wary when the plainlion to two businessmen'wllo' names a.ppear"q; ··· sued Donald Trump and .. a.pplicaUou 't4r:: qi.¢ Trump Indiana for.•br~ac~9f license, identify.i contract in a dispute Qvrpt 'a· ·pote'l'ltidUn,:,;91{~qJriverboat casit10, · · · •· : · ·; •Trump's ~rg,rt 
Trump Indiana•,_ w.htth Mays andYosha•as owns the Trump _C.a.$iJlO .Sta.ke oWMt:S. on.'tjl riverboat in Gaty',, :was. posals to the-Indian 
ordered to pay the da.mages. Commission in otdf Trump himself wa.~ not .a..pproved for a· dv$-r _va.,,. found to be at fault. lic1mse, their attorney stud;"> 
William Mays, the owner of But Just. hec~use}(h[tf:r · Mays Chemical CQ., and · names appeared on .the. attorney Buddy Yo.sha appJfoation. Trumpst!id{,it claimed Trump used tbei_r · did not mean they ha_d a.n local prominence in winning agreement. And tbe plain­an Indiana gambling hcense tiffs did not los~ money: for tho casino, then denied·· because they.. di<hi'Jl ~ti. them revenue. . anything-in the riy t,",, 
Yosha and Mays ea:cJ, \Yet,e; ;Trt1mp .sa(µ; 'J.'}Je; i;p awarded ·· $6G7 ,06-4·..r.fq.r_ p.lanningt~f~nd{h¢ claims ·toncerning T.ruulp ..·.·tnroughapromissor. Indiana. . . . . . . Si:i:othei'.'lfidiwD, 
Defense attorneys. said ,Involv~d .h1.:.tba. ca,s they had sought mo'te than pute settled before ~r,t $30 million. . . ' . . ' Trump had defen 
"Mr. Trump was exonerat-•Indiana operations,: s ed individually, totally;:' saitl his casino and a "ncW/. Richard Huser, an attorney· million." 300-room hotel as from Trump. "It is clear the helped revitalize Gary) jury didn't buy their story." economy. · 
Trump testified !h~t he "Everybodyhar:I.Jhis· never had a contrac.twith .ception ?fGary as the men: . the greatest.,
"l have never e . world; ·· · · · them until this tainl . 
Trump·-•.t.ldjp:(QI'~ 
Arizona executes second German brother in a week 
Associated Press 
!<LORENCE, Ariz. 
Despite plMs from the German governm;-nt, a German citizen was executed Wednesday in a cloud of cyanide fumes -a week after his brother was put to death for the same crime. 
Walter LaGrand. 37, died in the gas chamber for his role in the 1982 murder of a bank man­ager. His brothel' Karl. 35, was executed Feb. 24. 
Walter LaGrand apologized to the families of' his victim. 
"To all my loved ones, I hope they find peace. To all of you here today, I forgive you and I hope I can be forgiven in my next life," he said. 
LaGrand was pronounced dead 18 minutes after cynanide pellets were dropped into a pan of distilled water and sulfuric acid below his seat in the chamber. 
As a cloud of mist rose, ho began coughing, shook his head and gagged several times. 
Minutes later. his head slumped forward. He coughed again, raised his head and slumped forward. 
Both brothers chose the gas chamber in hopes that courts would rule that the metho~! is crUfil and unusual punishment and therefore unconstitutional. 
In both cases, the U.S. Supreme Court lifted a federal appeals court's restraining ordnr bar­ring Arizona from the execution. 
Karl LaGrand accepted the state's last­minute offer of lethal injection. Walter LaGrand rejected such an offer and said he would prefer a more painful execution in the gas chamber to protest the death penalty. 
The case drew widespread attention in Germany, which has no death penalty, prompt­ing repeated diplomatic protests. 
Walter LaGrand's case also was heard Wednesday in the International Court of Justice in The Hague, Netherlands. Germany asked the World Court to intervene after Arizona Gov. Jane Hull rejected appeals from German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder and Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer to stop the execution. 
The World Court has no enforcement powers, but in a special, half-hour hearing. Judge Christopher Weeramantry of Sri Lanka urged the U.S. govNnment to use "all the measures at ils disposal" to prevent the execution. 
The court also said the United States should pay unspecified damages for the death of Karl LaGrand, who was the first German citizen executed in the United States since World War II. 
The brothers were born in Augsburg, Germany, and moved to southern Arizona as children after their mother married an American serviceman. 
The last time Arizona executed an inmate in the gas chamber, in 1992, his death took 11 minutes and was considered so gruesome that tho law was changed to require lethal injection. 
Killers sentenced to death before 1992, like thr, LaGrands, are given a choice. 
Germany contends Arizona failed to arlvise the LaGrand brothers of' their right t.o consular assistance at their trials. 
Arizona officials conceded they violated the Vienna Convention but insisted the LaGrands were accorded all the rights any U.S. citizen would have received. 
Of the 38 states with capital punishment, only Arizona, California, Maryland, Missouri and Wyoming offer the gas chamber as an optional method, according to Richard Dieter, executive director of the National Death Penalty Information Center. 
Only 10 of the more than 500 inmates execu_t­ed since the death penalty was restored m 1976 have been put to death in the gas cham­ber, he said. 

The Observer News Department wishes you a safe and relaxing Spring Break. 

Students With Valid I.D. Pay ()nly $4.00! 

----------------------~------..------------~---··-----~--------­
Thursday, March 4, 1999 The Observer• NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Lewinsky breaks public silence in TV special 
Former intern discusses her relationship with Clinton 
WJ\SIIINGTON 
Monica LPwinsky on Wtnlnnsday nighl gavo Lhc worl<l an 1111ab1tsl111ct account of lwr lil'n and her affair with l'rm,ide11t Clinton. 
In a tdnvision intervinw. thu 2:i-ycar-old l"ornwr Whil11 Ilmis11 intorn spok11 opnnly of s1i x u a I P n ('. ll U n w rs w ith l h n prnsidnnL She said Pvnnls ol' [1111 past y1lar have shown Clinton ·•to ht' a much bigger liar tlwu I HVl'r thought." 
In a two-hour int~rview with ABC's Barbara Waltnrs, l.llwinsky qunsliorwd Lim sin­nirity of' tho p,n\sidont's apolo­gy for the Pnlirn episode. say­
ing "I think he's sorry be got before a grand jury and by kept it, not as a trophy or caught." videotape at the impeachment incriminating evidence, but 
Lewinsky said in the inter­trial, Lewinsky was animated rather to save money on dry view -an ovcnt that ABC and smiled frequently during cleaning. She said the dress hoped would draw such a huge the TV interview. was a joke among her friends. audience that it raised its ad She also ackowledgcd the "We even laughed about it," rates -that slrn folt Lewinsky told like "a piece ot' Walters. "With one I trash" the clay even joked, gee, Clinton was forced to 
maybe he'll pay for
'Iad mil their affair on FELT DIRTY AND I FELT the dry cleaning." She national television said now, however.
USED AND I WAS DISA· 
and apologized to she would burn the the nation -but not POINTED' dress if sho ever gets to lmr. it back. "I fl-It dirty and I After months of get­
MON/(,'A LEWINSKY
fell used and I was ting Lewinsky's story disappointed," FO/iMEH Wmr:E HOUSE INTERN f'ro'm cold grand jury Lnwinsky said. transcripts and script-Both the Clintons ed videotaped testi­!Aft Washington for a mony at the impeach­day their friends and ment trial, Americans aides adrnilled would be falsity of her first affidavit in got to hear her version in two painful -the president wont ihl' Paula Jones Case. "I think I venues: ABC aired the inter­to a fund-raiser in New Jersey; knew I was lying but ... I had view it recorded 11 days ago tho lirst lady tested the politi­no idea what all the different while her publislrnr provided cal waters in New York whore elements of perjury were at the news media its first copies she's considering a bid for U.S. the time," Lewinsky said. of the book, "Monica's Story," Senatn. As for the stained dress that set to go on sale Thursday.'ln Showing /\mericans a far dif­eventually became key evi­both, Lewinsky volunteered fil ron t personality than the dence in the case against detail about intensely personal 
stern witnAss forced to testify Clinton, Lewinsky insisted she matters in her life. 
She acknowledged she had an abortion after becoming pregnant during a three-month affair with a fellow Pentagon worker. The abortion occurred in the latter part of 1996, while she was still seeing Clinton in secret meetings at the White House. 
She also clntailed anotlrnr affair she had with a married man in Oregon while still in college, disclosing that when the romance was ending she had a "ning" with his younger brother lo spite him. 
The details may bo too much for a public alroady wnary of Lim story. Ninn out ol' 10 p!lo­ple said in a Gallup Poll takon Friday through Sunday that they would not be intnrnsted in rnading her book. And almost two-thirds said limy were not interested in watching her TV interview. 
She told Waltnrs in the tnle­vision interview that she is now "afraid of doing some­thing to lose my immunity" with independent counsel Kenneth Starr's office. 


(Storms kill two in Northwest and South 
A,sod,ated Preas 
Powerfulwinds and large waves whipped the Pacific Northwest coast • on Wednesday, knocking out power to tens ofthousands and interrupting ferry service .a.cross Washington state's 
Puget Sound. 
In. the South, tornadoes and 
strong storms tore across sev­
eral states. 
A 36-year-old man was killed 
in Washington when a tree fell 
on the car he was driving. In 
Alabama, a 23-year-old man was killed when a tree slammed into his trailer home in Milbrook. 
"All of a sudden you just 
heard a big boom," said Stephanie Clecker. 17, who lives nearby the trailer home. "Glass started flying every­where." 
Washington Gov. Gary Lock(~ declared a state of emergency in five counties in the western part of the state. 
At the peak of the wind storm, gusts reached as high as 68 miles per hour in Snohomish, northeast of Seattle, the weather service said, while 35•foot seas and sustained 60 mph winds were reported off the coast. 
More than 200,000 people were without electricity early Wednesday as falling tree limbs felled power lines. 
Think·ofus 
as your scfiool bus. 

A great-tasting deal 
oHdays, semester breaks or heading home for your sister's wedding, if going home means catching a plane at Midway or

that's easy to get hooked on. 
O'Hare, the best way to the airport Is United Limo. 
Frequent service, all day from campus gets you there 

The delicious BK BIG FISH, Value Meal. A crispy fish filet topped on schedule. And when it's time to hil the books again, we'll pick you up at the airport and bring you back to
with fresh lcttm:e an<l tangy tartar sauce plus medium fries and medium drink. 
school. No hassles, no problems. For information and :schedule consult your travel agent or call 
$3.59 
800-833-5555
The I luddk -LaFortune Student Center 
www.busvme.com 
BURGER 
UNITED LIMO
ICING 
Your Airport Connection, O'Hare &Midway, All Day... Evary Day
It just tastes • better. 

©1998 Burger King Corporation. !\urger King Corporation is the exclusive licensee of the registered BK BIG FISH and Bun Halves logo trademarks. 
page 8 The Observer• NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, March 4, 1999 
Hillary tours NY, mulls options New rule eli01inates 
Rodham Clinton courts voters at DNC fundraiser 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Hillary Rodham Clinton greeted clamor for her Senate candidacy with an impossible­to-road smile. But the first lady's talk of civic duty and debts to feminist forebears made her sound like a woman ready to be drafted. 
"I begin to think about the future in political terms because J've always believed that we are at our best as a nation when everybody under­stands their obligation as a citizen," Clinton said Wednesday, the first day of a two-day New York visit. 
The tour bore the hallmarks of a cam­paign swing: cheering crowds. sweeping speeches to would-be constituents, a private dinner with could-be campaign financiers. 
But, to the disap­pointment of an over­sold Democratic National Committee fund-raising luncheon -and dozens of reporters from as far away as Denmark -Clinton made no announce­ment. 
Associates said her decision on whether to seek New York's open Senate seat in 2000 is still months away. 
As long as the mystique lingers, Clinton could be a powerful money magnet for Democratic fund-raisers, as evidenced by Wednesday's unprecedented waiting list of 300 for the $500,000 DNC lun­cheon. 
One donor, Didi Barrett, wants the first lady to become her state's new senator, but said New Yorkers will get impatient if summer comes and Clinton is still playing guessing games. 
"It's not fair to whoever else 
ends  up  running,"  said  
Barrett, 48, head of a  girls'  
club organization.  

New York's Chuck Schumer, who took a Republican Senate seat for the Democrats last year after beating incumbent Alfonse D'Amato with Clinton's help, advised: "Take a little time, think this one through and then, if you decide you will be a candidate, we will support you and we will be resolute." 

London $277 
Amsterdam $3S I Rome $374 Barcelona $402 
faru a!'II fro"' Jndl1.napolt1, nch W"'f hand on a R.T purchuc. fares do not indude u.xu,, 'tNhlch un toul bet-'"'n Sl imd $10. lnt'l Student ID m r, b1!: n-qulred'.htt1 are valld tbr deputurei In April and ar9 1ubiect to chanp. Restriction, apply. C•II for our t°"' dom•ulc far•1 and '•"'• to 
othu· world w1d1: dutlnair:!orn. Don't for pt to order 'fOU.r E.urat~u1! 
'*hhiNO Travel ~ 
CJEE: Council on International Educational Exchange 
l-800-2Council 
~ww.counciltravel.com 

While the luncheon crowd to behold." Clinton marveled 
secret Senate 'holds' 
erupted in applause, Clinton as she faced 900 adoring stood behind Schumer with Democrats, 24 television cam­Associated Press an end to holds. her hands clasped, her gaze eras and the clattering shut­
"It is an outrageous practice,downcast, her mouth closed in ters behind at least as many WASHINGTON 
it should have been changed 
zoom lenses.
a smile. Senators accustomed to years ago and it comes pretty
;\ new statewide poll sug­"I was told that there were 
anonymity when they block close to amounting to legisla­
gested she could face a real some who thought that, ab, I legislation or nominations tive blackmail," said Sen. Hon battle for the job. might have an announcement must now go public with their Wydcn, D-Ore. 
Where weeks ago she to make," she said, with a objections under new rules "This will make it out in the enjoyed an 11-point lead over playfully dramatic pause. ending the practice of secret open, make us more produc­New York GOP Mayor Hudolph The crowd went "Ooooh." "holds." 
tive," added Sen. Charles Giuliani in the Marist Institute " ... But I don't," she fin­Majority Leader Trent Lott, Grassley, R-Iowa. "It's almost Poll's hypothetical matchup, ished. R-Miss., and Minoritv Leader impossible to run down, in her lead shrank to a statisti­The crowd went "Aaaah." Tom Daschle, D-S.D., delivered 
some instances, who's holdingcally insignificant four points New York Democratic Rep. the news to colleagues in a things up."in the latest survey, released Gary Ackerman, one of many joint letter dis­Grassley and Wednesday. whom Clinton has consulted 
tributed Wyden them­"1300! Go back to Arkansas!" about a race, said she is seri• 
Wednesday. selves have 
Gary Percivalle shouted as ous but also "kind of astound­Holds were J:'ROM NOW ON SENA~ used holds on Clinton emerged from a morn-ed and gratified by the kind of common for C TORS WISHING TO PVT occasion. but encouragement years but have they are
A HOLD ON ANY LEGISLA-
she's getting.,. become more 
among the few After 13 months controversial TION OR NOMINATION MUST senators who consumed by Monica 
during the go public and
'IBEGIN TO THINK ABOUT NOTIFY THE BILL'S SPONSOR
Lewinsky, Marc past three 
explain their 
THE FUTURE IN POLITI-Rosenberg did not administra­RATHER THAN REMAIN objections with begrudge the first tions, when statements in
CAL TERMS BECAUSE I'VE ANONYMOUS.
lady a little basking have
they Congressional
ALWAYS BELIEVED THAT WE in flattery. "Why not 
been used Hecord, the ARE AT OUR BE.ST AS A feel wanted for a increasingly to thwart a presi­official transcript of House and change?" said the dent's choice for filling vacan­Senate proceedings.
NATION WHEN EVERYBODY 
middle-school prin­cies in politically appointed Wyden said the change UNDERSTANDS THEIR OBLIG-cipal from Queens. jobs. should help boost the public'sClinton did not Action on his nominations confidence in the Senato, par­
ATION AS A CITIZEN.' 
talk like a political can be indefinitely delayed ticularly after it went behind spouse who would when a single senator -usu­closed doors to make key deci­HILLARY RoDHAM CLINTON slip quietly out of ally acting in secret and with­sions in President Clinton's 
Washington at the out explanation -blocks a impeachment trial. FIRST LADY end of her hus-vote over objections to or dis­"The Senate is sending a band's term. agreements with the candi­message that there's going to 
"We cannot drop date. be some sunshine on the floor ing education speech at out of the political process," "While we believe that all of this body," Wyden added. Intermediate School 25 in the she said, recalling the suffrag­members will agree this prac­Holds are not part of the borough of Queens. ists' conference one hundred tice of 'secret holds" has been Senate's formal rules. They
"Being that she's married to fifty years ago at Seneca Falls, a senatorial courtesy extended grew out of a century-old prac­such a degenerate, by putting NY. Her challenge, she added, by party leaders for many tice whereby senators, when up with him it only proves her was to decide "whether all the Congresses, it is our intention they were unable to attend a ignorance," he said. The 46-sacrifices that were made in to address some concerns debate or vote, would ask their year-old sales distributor from the past should just be hon­regarding this practice," Lott's leaders to postpone action. It Whitestone called her flirta­ored by rhetoric or honored by 
and Daschle's letter said. has since become a custom for tion with candidacy an ego­action." From now own, members the leaders of both parties to driven "scam." Action, decided the girl-wishing to put a hold on any honor those requests. 
On Wednesday night, she power cluster outside legislation or nomination must Several senators, including was sitting down to a private Intermediate School 25. notify the bill's sponsor and Lott, used holds last year to dinner with Roger Altman, a . "'We need, like, a new per­the appropriate committees block James Hormel. a San former Treasury Department son in the Senate, especially a about their concerns. Members Francisco philanthropist who official considered key to woman. There's too many must also notify their respect is gay, from becoming ambas­financing any Clinton cam­guys," said Jin Kim, 15. leaders in writing. sador to Luxembourg after the paign, and his Wall Street Fellow ninth-grader Alexis The announcement drew Foreign Relations Committee friends. Rubenstein also approved of immediate praise from two approved the nomination. 
For the first time since Clinton as a candidate: "She'll senators who've fought in vain Clinton resubmitted Hormel's prominent Democrats began make her mark as first woman for the past few years to put nomination earliBr this year. to woo Clinton for the race, president." she stepped from behind her But it's the Senate that. spokeswoman's "no com­Clinton is eyeing, another girl ments," publicly engaged the reminded. 
Thank you for using The Observer to 
courtship and appeared to "Well, 1 mean, this will be enjoy it. the first step," Rubenstein 
read about the nation's news. 
"It is just an amazing sight said. 
w Saint Mar).19S Students... 
I 
Looking for awav to be INVOLVED on campus next year
& 
Have some FUN? Become amember of 
SAB
** **
Chairwomen Positions available include: Comedy Marketina Cultural School SPirit 
Entertainment SPeakers Movies and Munchies Traditional Events Treasurer APPiications Available at Haaaar Front Desk Due FridaY. March 5 





Democrat Party seeks togetherness 
Tennessee senator will not enter race 
that his Senate workload ate in temperament.'' Committee in the 1970s, and 
will preclude a run for the lie said he had "never­later became an actor in 

NASHVILLE.Tenn, White House and he thinks been on the verge" of run­movies such as "The Hunt 
Sim. Fred Thompson it would be impractical for ning for president despite for Red October" and "In the says he will not run for three men from Tennessee media speculation. Line of Fire." prnsid1!nt in 2000 and will to b<~ in the race, "If it hadn't been for his Thompson said he was support his follow Tcnnes­Vico President Al Gore is announcement coming up, surprised when "alot ofpeo­soan, for­
expected to seek the I'd probably just kind oflet ple ... from various parts of mer Gov, Democratic nomination, it die a natural death," the country" had encour0 Lamar Alexander plans to for­Thompson said. aged him to run, adding he A I C X -mally announce his candi­Thompson was elected. to thought "I should not dis• ander. in ducy Tuesday in Nashville the Senate in 1994 to fill miss tliis out of hand, a,nd I thn race and Thompson said that the remaining two years of didn't." for the encouraged him to rule Gore's seat after Gore was "Right now these are Hcpub-out his own race now. He elected vice president. uncertain times. People 1 i c a n said he supports He was elected in 1996 to may be more in the mood 11omin1L-Thompson Alexander because "he a full six-year term. for caretaker government t i II n . has a basic conservative He was minority counsel than any bold initiatives Thompson said yesterday message, but he's moder-for the Senate Watergato right now for a while," 
Bradley qualifies for federal funds 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
On the eve of' his first major prnsi­dnn ti al fundraisnr, Democrat Bill Bradlr:y announcr:d Wednnsday tlrnl hn had raisnd enough monny in 
enough states to qualify for fmlcral matching funds, 
Thr. l'ndnral mo1wy won't start flowing until Jan. 1, 2000. But Bradlny touted his achieve­mr.nt as a sign he 

can competr. in the Bradley 
big leagues of polit­
ical ('undraising, 
Bradlny's prnsidential campaign reported to the Fcdcral Election Commission that it has raised at lnast $5,000 in amounts of $250 or less in 21 states -one morn statP than required to qualify for matching funds. 
Beginning next year. tlw l'Pdnral government will match up to $250 of an individual's total contributions to qualified presidnntial primary candi­dates, 
In a statement, Bradley campaign chairman Doug Berman said Bradley "is reaching out to people at thP grassroots levr.l and receiving sup­port from people who have never been active in politics before but want to make a differr.ncn for their country." 
Bradley holds a $1,000-a-head fundraisnr Thursday in Nr.w Jnrsny, the first of four such events in thr. next six weeks. The others will be in Chicago, San Francisco and Nnw York. 
Bradley, for now the only Democrat challr.nging Gore for the' Democratic nomination, hopes to raise at least $20 million for the primary. 

EtJGl~E ·.·•·· ·· ... 
. ···•··fr ?lti•··•· 
EngineeringJ'hf!tit~: check Aurth, jobs you c;an'have as a Cornp!J~i or Computer Engineer."Toµr:9~' the~art labs. Talk to·engineet~ng'.
students and faculty. Have ,, ,, · some food; we start serving at 6:00 p.m. Dont hF,,_liJ~:1\ 
Orthodox Christians and Friends 


participate· in our Lenten Retreat 
Join us for a presentation by guest speaker Father Vesin and group discussion to follow. Call 291-8204 with questions 

8 p.m., washington hall 
performing works by 
Beethoven, Gershwin 
and Debussy 
free admission 


Clinton strives for unity after impeachment 
W!\SIIIN(;TON 
l'rt•sidPnl Clinton stood today with lh•morratic law111ak1•rs who stood with him during impnarhmnnt and said "W1• an· organizPcl and wr: am Lllli(Pd" as tlw l!npu blirnn-rnntrollPd Congrnss w·ts down to husilll'SS, 
Cli11to11, virl' pri·sidt!fll Al (;om and l)p1111H·ralil' IPadPrs plPdgPd support f'or a "FamiliPs First" agenda ol' pro­t,•1·ti11g Soria! Sncurity and M1:dicarn, i111provi11g Pdt1t·atio11 and lwalth car<' and raising tlw minimum wagn. 
llul as mui:h as tr111111rnti11g tlil'ir proposals -most ol' whirh Clinton highlight1·d in his Staw of tl111 Union addrPss i11 .lanuary -party officials so11ghl 111 proj1·d an irnagn ol' L111ity al a timo when Hopublica.ns are still struggli,ng lo formulate detailed leg­islative pIans of their own. 
The event was tho rirsl of its kind since Clinton's impoadunent and trial, and coincidentally canrn on llrn day that Monica Lr:winsky's tnlevisr:d intnrview was airing on ABC, Nr.ither shn nor t.Jw scandal was mcntionml, 
'WEARE ORGANIZED AND 
WE ARE UNITED.' 
n,u CUNTON P1tESIIJFNT 
Clinton was grneted warmly by !louse ()r.mocratic leader Dick Gephardt of Missouri, Senate Dtimocratic leader Tom Daschlc of South Dakota and othPrs who rncontly had br.en sharply condr.rnning his lrnhavior with Lewinsky and soeking his formal censure rathPr than impr.achmont. 
Democrats arc in the enviable posi­tion of having a program crafted, at tlrn same time Republicans are still working to put together a budget for the next fiscal year. 
Majority lr.ader Dick Armey, H­Texas, kicked off a campaign for tax relief during the day. 
"I disagree with pollsters and pun­dits who say Americans don't care about tax relief'," he said. "If they spend a minute outside of Washington, their eyes will be opened to Urn m10r­mous tax burden on rnal people." 
At tlrn same time, Hcpublicans have yet to agree on what type of tax relief to push l'or. Earlir.r enthusiasm for a 10 pcrccnt across the board cut has waned, in favor of targeted ri1ductions, 
Apart from Medicare and Social Security, Democrats declared their support for several education propos­als. 
These include federal tax credits to modernizo schools; money to reach thr: goal of hiring 100,000 new teachers to reduce class size and money for after­school programs, 

page 10 The Observer. NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, March 4, 1999 
Incentive DttYiltWr boosts GM sales 
A$Sociated Press 
DETHOIT 
General Motors Corp. reported sharply higher U.S. sales in February, due in part to an aggressive, last,minute 
incentive  ·  
campaign  
to  get  
employee$,  
their rela­ 
tives  and  
t  h  e  
automak­ 
er's retirees  
to  buy  more  GM Ca.1'.S  and  
trucks,  

The No. 1 auto:ot'aker said Wednesday that itsJight vehi­cle sales increased 17 percent, compared with February 1998. The growth came across the board: Car sales rose 19 percent, while sales of sport utility vehicles, pickups, vans and minivans combined were up 15 percent. 
GM's report capped a string of strong sales figures for February: Ford Motor Co. said Tuesday that its sales were up 
8.5 percent; DaimlerChrysler AC posted an 8 perce,nt gain; Toyota Motor Corp·. irripr<ived 19 percent; and Honda Motor Co. was up 14 percent. 
Figures for GM. Ford and DaimlerChrysler exclude U.S. sales of their European brands. 
Industrywide sales increased 
12.5 percent over a flat per­formance in February 1998, with car sales up 9 percent and truck sales up 17 percent. European automakers again posted the biggest percentage gain -up 28 percent. Asian automakers improved 12 per­cent, as did GM-Ford­DaimlerChrysler combined. 
February's totals equate to a seasonally adjusted annual sales rate of 17 million light vehicles, said analyst David Healy of BurnhamSecurities Inc. Automakers sold 15.6 mil­Hon vehicles in the United States last year, sei:-ondonly to 16 million in 1986. 
"That's kind of incredible," Healy said. "I don't think they can keep it up. But March is apparently off to a strong start and it doesn't look like there's anything in the short term to getintl1¢,way." ...·. •i 
Analyst~ said.GM'sli'ebl'uary sales growth appeared misus0 tainable beeause much ofit was due to an unusuaJmonth­end campaign to generate sales among the 2 mil~2ri GM empl<>yees. rel~tives and 
•retjr1~ eligiblefor J ,.disc..9u.nJi,f,Doring ... ki! 
end ooly, th,;iy were o .. e an extra $1,000 rebate on. lllOSt GM vehicles, on top ofthe reg­ular, discount of 10 percent to 20 percent.
GM also .expanded its regu-­1ar emph,yee diSCQ\t'flt rqx gratpJ».$fpJof1th.to e 

.of its. <fdinchised . i> • F whichiadded thousands mbre· 
potential .buyers. lJea.ler employees· also were eligihle for last weekend's discount 
"Ifthere;s one incentivEl,Jll'O­gi:a~.Jh~t made adiff~f~!J<;~; it ·was.t~at .one,"said an~ltst Nick Colas of.Cre.ditSuisse 
First Boston. "GM had sorries thing to prove in its ability to regain share in cars and 
trucks.0 
GM's U.S, market share fell to 2.9 percent last.year,. 
dul: to· ;pair ··~r d;11­strik.. t has rem that level in the fi·rst o months of 1999, despHe the incentives. The automaker has set a goal of 32 percent of the market this year. 
GM played down tho effect of the rebates and declined, to sax. W? at percen(a,gf_trf Tt$ sales were attributalHe' to employee discounts. 
"Our incentives areJust competitive with what's in the marketplace," said Darwin Clark, vice president ofJield sales, ~ervice and parte, 
But.sqrne analysts\\'.9h:der whether GM is getting dei;;per­ate. Its vast North American ma11ufacturing operations are designed to supply at least 30 percent of the U.S. market. If its share remains hqlow .tbat level, plant closures QrJay-0ffs.. 
arelikelY•.> .. .• ··•· .. ' < /\ .·•
"Th}fre'S·•som.eth,tn'g•"1$ry strange about a car cornµany that, in a. red-hot vehicle mar­ket, has to depend on dis­counted sales to its employ­ees," said analyst Maryann Keller of ING Baring Furman Selz. 


C.J:s Pub 
Friday Night Lenten Dinner Specials 
417 N. Michigan St. 
U.S. Concorde travel may end 
Associated Press "The European restriction would apply only to U.S. air­WASHINGTON craft even though, in some 
The Concorde -the pride of cases. they are quieter than European aviation and the their European counterparts world's only supersonic pas­that would not be restricted senger jet -would be banned under the rngulations," the from the United States under a llouse Republican Conferenr,e bill the House passed said in a statement. Wednesday to retaliate against new environmen­tal rules the European Union is considering. 
'WHY IS THE EUROPEAN
Indignant House mem­
COMMUNITY TAKING ANTI­
bers passed by voice vote a measure that would COMPETITIVE ACTION TO ELIMINATE 
The measure now goes to the Senate. 
Shuster said he hoped the thrnat of' legislation alone would persuade the Europeans to table their plan. 
"It's our hope that we don't need to proceed further in the Senate and have this signed 
into law," he said. "This is blatant. outrageous dis­crimination." 
"None of us relishes tak­ing this type of retaliatory measure, but fair is fair." said Hep. Louise Slaughtor. 
keep Concorde aircraft 
U.S. AIRCRAFT FROM THE EUROPEAN D-N.Y. "This sends a simple
from operating over U.S. message to our friends soil if thP European AIR SYSTEM?' across the pond that we 
Parliament adopts a plan that would end up restricting the use of some U.S.-based aircraft to cut down on air pollu­tion. 
The U.S. planes under ques­tion either have new engines installe.d or are fitted with "hushkits," devices similar to mufners, nep. Bud Shuster, n­Pa., said. 
The bill's supporters said the European plan could cost American businesses more than $1 billion in sales of spare parts and engines, reduce the resale value of more than 1,600 U.S. aircraft and cause sevore losses to manufacturers of hush kits. 
will respond in kind when they take this type or JAMES' 0JJL!.'RST/\R action." RF!'. D-MtNN. Furtherm·ore, supporters 
During noor debate, mem­bers of the House called the• proposed regulations a dis­criminatory, anti-American trade action thinly disguised as environmental protection. 
"Why is the European Community taking anti-com­petitive action as they have done with their proposal to eliminate some 1,600 U.S. air­craft from the European air system?" said Rep. James Oberstar, D-Minn., who intro­duced the bill. 
said, the Concorde has been exempt from U.S. noise sttrndards for 20 years. 
"According to a preliminary analysis from the Federal Aviation Administration. a han on Concorde flights will rcducn the noise footprint around New York's .John r. Knnnedy lntnrnational Airport by at least 20 perrnnt," the House Republican Conference said. 
Thf'" rrnedle-nosed plane, famous !'or rocketing through the sky at more than twice the speed of sound. made its first !light March 2, 1969. 
Internet trend: No access charge 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Bv now, whether it's $21.95 or $9.95, it seems to be an Internet fact of life: No one roams for free. 
But the World Wide Web is still too new to presume that anything is set in stone, and monthly dial-up !'ees could become another lntnrnet dinosaur if others keep giving away what America Online is trying to sell. 
Last week, Gateway announced thal it would throw in a free year of its Internet ser­vice with any computer pur­chase of more than $1,000. 
But even more threatening to the stranglehold of the pay-f'or­service providers has been the early success of some new rivals that let you dial up f'or f'rne. 
More lhan a million British havP signed on with a snrvicc named Frceserve, which b()gan oprwating in September. but has already surpassed Amnrica Online as Britain's most popular Internet access provider. 
NetZero, has signnd up 400,000 customers sincn it launched a free servicn in October. 

Advisors fron1 every Major, Concentration, Area Stud;cs Progran1 and more (ALPP, Pr~-L~n~1 
, 
:..... ... On,.-'")-"'"H1.f' ) >' .• .:H ,.~ -,r.,-. ·nf t-~ _,,,n~,...!,l,.., 
,Jo • a • -.., _, ........ II, • .111\...,l• l-•···' ,.. iii ......., ., .. '-..,,1,J'--'AJI."' ..,,, ¦ J.:.. V ... ~ •­
1 
inforn1ation and answer questions for students 
1ntt1 t~ttu 111 the Art.., & Lett~.. u '-U• .a.1"u....1.a11 

l"lrnrsday, March 4, 1999 The Observer• NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
House votes to add 3,300 to Peace Corps 
As~ociat«I Press 
WASHINCTON 
Thf' numll!:r of PfJace Corps vnlunto1irs would increas!.' l'rurn ltw currP11l (,,700 lo IO ,000 ovr.r lht-next four :vears 11nd1:r n. bill passed by i.tw ll11usu on WedOI\Sday. 
''Wlwn you tnko a look at llw impact it has on tlw world ,·ommunitv ... 1.lrnri~ is nn ;\nH'rirnn jirogrnm that has lH\l!ll a lwttnr ambassador for J\mNint and its valt11•s than I.hi' l'ParP Corps,'' !fop. Sum {;pjrhmson. D-Conn .. said dm­ing d('batn on the llous(' floor. 
Thn bill, passP<l 32(,-90, would autlrnrizn $270 million for the· program in 2000, $298 million fur 200 I, $327 million f'or 2002 and $~<.!'i million for 200:{. Sen. Paul Coverdell, H­1;a .. and Sen. Cl1ris1.ophn Dodd, !>-Conn.. havP intro· duced similar legislation in the SPnittn. Thn White Ilouse sup­ports the bill as well. 
H1ip. Tnm Campbell. H·Calif'., who iutroduc11d UH\ bill, said that. m1urn~11menl of the Peace Cnrps hus improvod. 
U.S.-bnsed staff has been reduced 13 pereent, and more of Urn program's resources arl' being allocated overseas since Mark Gearan became dirnclor in Seplember 1995, Campb1\ll said. The annual cost of a volunteer has been decrPased 14 percnnt since tllf'n. 
The Peace Corps received nearly l0,000 applications in 1998· from people wanting to volunteer, Gearan said. 
"We're seeing a resurgent intorost in tho Pea.co Corps with young Americans and those not so young." he said. About 8 percent of voluntc,irs are over 50. 
CiLmpbell said the bill also 
would makfl changfls in thfl 
law "so that Peace Corps vol­u u teors and employees will hllvfl most of th,~ b,rnefits of 
being  a  member  of  the  
Foreign Service.·•  
"The  Pear:e  Corps  has  

always unjoyed a bipartisan support in the Congress, and the proposPd increases in this bill rnally rnprnsont, I think. a verv small invcstmr,nt for a large return," Hep. Anna Eschoo, D-Calif'.. said. 
Pcnco Corps volunteers receive living expenses, health cam covP.rage and a rfla<l,iust• mont allowance after their sorvico. They work to help fight hunger. bring clean watnr to communities, teach children, incrnase crop yields, help start new small business­es and work to stop the spread of AIDS. among otlrnr mis• sions. 
The progrnm began March I, 1961, a fow months after President Kennedy first pro­posed the idea of an interna­tional volunteer organization while giving a speech to University of Michigan stu• dents in Ann Arbor, Mich., 
Since then, more than 150,000 Americans have vol­unteered in the program in over 130 countries. 


myou 1hinkyou know us...think again) 
CIGNA wonts to dispel some myths about working in insurance. Like the one that soys "insurance is boring ond predictable." The truth is, careers at CIGNA offer so many opportunities for fun, challenging work, you won't hove nme to be bored. 
Our business is global benefits. From health care and investments to protecting lives ond businesses, we touch people in more ways than anyone in the indus1ry. And we ore among the best at it, too. 
W.. Then there ore our employees. People who distinguish 

-"rthemselves through talent and dedication. We nurture them with unique professional development programs that allow individuo~ lo grow according to their strengths and interests. 
Many of our top managers came up through these programs to become key contributors to our success. 
We've olso been honored by publications such as The Black Collegian, Hispanic Magazine, and Careers &the disABLED as among !he top companies for promoting workplace diversify. 
Finally, though, we do hove one lhmg in common: To make adifferen{e every doy in the lives of the people we serve. 
If lhis sounds lo you like ogood plo,e lo wo~ we'd like to meet. To find out more, visit us on lhe Web or Spellk to one of our on-rnmpus representatives. 
Enjoy Your Spring Break! 
One CIGNA: Many Opportunities. 
We're on equal oppmity employer. M/F/0/V. "CIGNA" refeis to CIGNA (~ration ond/or one or more of its subsidiaries. Most em~oyee, ore employed by subs1dMmes of CIGNA (OJporation, which provide ill5Umnre ond relcled product,. 
www.dg11a.com 
a· 
CIGNA 

A Business ofCaring. 
CIA: Poison gas threat grows 
But development of weapons is more difficult than some think 
AssociJtcd Press 
W/\SIIINGTON 
Thn threat of' biological wnapons attack on tho Unite<l States is incrnasing. a CIA analyst said Wcd1rnsday, but nxpnrls may bn rxagg1!rating the rasn or devnloping 1d'foc­tivn W!\!lj)OHS. 
"Tlw preparntinn and d'foc­t iv11 us11 of' biological weapons by both potentially hostile state's and by non-state actors, including terrorists, is hardnr than some popular lit.craturn seems to suggest," Cl/\ coun­terproliforation official John l.audcr told the House lntolligence Committee. 
"That said, potential adver­sari(•s arP pursuing such pro­grams, and the threat lhat the United States and om allies l'acn is growing in breadth and sophistication." 
The CIA tracks about a dozen nations, including sev­eral generally hostile to the West -Iran, Iraq, Libya, North Korea and Syria -that are dnveloping or already pos­sess offensive biological weapons. In many cases, they see biological weapons as a key _to ~aging "asymmetric warfare on much more pow­erful adversaries such as the United Stales, Lauder said. 
"This is the weapon for David-and-Goliath warfare," Princeton biophysicist Stephen 
Block  said."You  can  take  
clown the giant."  
The  testimony,  in  a  rare  

public hearing ~f the intelli­gence committee, includr.d a 
panel of' biological woapons experts who demonstrated some of the simple tm:hniques -a common ganlnn sprayer. for nxamplc -for spreading a biological weapon. 
"We arc obligated to rais,, the public's awareness," said lfop. Porter Goss, H-Fla., chairman of tlw committeP. ''I am disturbed by what appears to be a rampant prolil'nration ol' biowarfare capabilitim; and technologies." 
'1AM DISTURBED BY WHAT APPEARS TO BE A RAM­
PANT PROLIFERATION OF 
BIOWARFARE CAPABILITIFS 
AND TECHNOLOGIF.5/ 
RHP. Po11Tlil/ Coss R-F1.,1, 
Goss and several witnesses underscored the relative ease of developing biological agents such as anthrax by using tech­nology as simple as a brew­ery. 
But Lauder, special assistant for nonproliferation to CI/\ director George Tenet, said developing effective biological weapons is more difficult than popular movies or even weapons experts suggest. 
He noted the casn of' the Aum Shinrikyo, the .Japanese cult responsible for a deadly attack using the chemical weapon sarin on the Tokyo subway in 1995. It came after at lnast three failed attempts to carry out biological weapons attacks. 
Countering this argumnnt. William Patrick, a veteran of 
the U.S. biological warl'arn of llrn 1960s and '?Os, brought to tlrn !waring an array of' com­mon household and ganlen spray cl1wices and dcnwnstrat­ml -nonlethally -how tlwy could be us11d by l!\rrorists to sprnad powdnrPd biologi<'al wnapons agonts. 
Knn Alilwk, a forrn!'I' sPnior of'f'icial in tlw Sovi1~l Union's offonsivP biological wPapons prngram, said that dospiln a 
I <Jl)2 dPcree by Hussian l'rcsid1111t Boris Yeltsin ban­ning all biological wnapons activity, "tlwrl' still rPniains doubt lhat l{ussia has com­pl1'tPly disrnantll'cl till' old SoviPL program." 111• said Wa:.;hington must lw wary that SOlllP or till' roughly (10,000 pPoplP involvnd in llw SoviPt biowPapons program !'.OUld nxport tlwir PXpcrtis!'. 
/\libnk said hiologi!'.al weapons should lw r.onsidPn,d " mass cas II a Ity w 11 a pons" rather than wnapons or mass dnstruction because limy kill pnople without causing wide­spread dnstruction. 
Thn Cl/\'s I,auder said strict 
U.S. trad!! and weapons embargoes on countrins such as Iran and Iraq am having the unintended effect of' strnngth­ening those countries' indige­nous weapons programs. 
"Biological wnapons pro­grams are becoming more sPlf'­s u ffi cie nt, challenging our detection and dotnrrnncn dforts and limiting our inlnr­diction opportunities," I.a ud1\r said. 
Hep. Norman Sisisky. D-Va., cautioned against alarming tlrn public unnecessarily. 
"We don't want lo scam peo­ple that biological warfare is going to be the warfare of tlw f'uture," Sisisky said. Old fash­ion1\cl tanks and planes will continue to be thn main wnapons of'war. lw said. 
Thank you for reading The Observer 
THE BAYER LECTURE SERIES 
The Center for Environmental Science &Technology at the University of Notre Dame presents 

ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY 
Earth Day to the Millennium: The View After 30 Years in 
the Environmental Arena 
.::it::...J\ From 
y.->+-.i. early years -· · , ·\\.~. in federal 
service including ,congressional staff in ']970, through a career 
that has included ··~environmental education ; ~ th~ faculty ofWilliams 
. . •College, service as an Assistant Administrator 
.,·, .'. :.'" -··· , . . ofthe USEPA, as 
~ ...~ ·.rei~.... ,~. • • 
: ~-'.hCommisstoner of New York
''. :?i~~~\~? .... 
1{t ·state Department of ~._,.....,,~n.viro.nmental Conservation ···and now responsible for ·, International Paper Company's environmental · program, Mr. Jorling 
will review lessons learned and how they 
. ~ l~~t 
Mr.Thomas C. Jorling '-~~. < \ ~.­
might bear on 
Vice President, EnviroJ\mental Affairs ~ International Paper policy into the 
l n'meiiial
Purchase, New York future. Science& 
Tllchnology
~·---ah 

VIEWPOINT 

page 12 os~tRvER Thursday, March 4, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRf DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
St1INT MARY's 0FHC£: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR·IN-CHIEF Hearhcr Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Reinrhab Kyle Carlin 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Hl"arher MacKenzie 
NEWS EDITOR... .. ........Michelle Krupa ADVERTISING MANAGER........................llryan Lurz YIEWT'OINT EDITOR ................l:.duitrdn Llull Ao DESIGN MANAGER ...................... llrm rluelar SP-ORTS EDITOR ............••..• Karhlel'.".n Lope-1 SYSTFMS MA~AGER ...... , ..•••..• , ..... Michael Brm1iller SCENE EDITORS.......................... Sarah Uylag CONfROLLF.R ................................... Dave Rogc-ro 
Kristi Kli rsch WED ADMINISTRATOR .......................Alli.son Knlla SAINT MARY'S EDITOR ... M. Shannon Ryan GRAPHICS EDJTOR ............................... Pm Cilella PHOTO EDITOR .......... ...... K«·in Dalum 
·t·ht! Observer i!. 1hc inJcpcnJt"nl n~p.lpc::r puhli~hcd b_y 1:hc smdent-'" of the Universiry of Nurre 0Jmt.: du Lac .iml 
S-aim M.uy'f. ('..olkgc. l~ does not ncce:..o:,iuily 1ef\1ccl the policic::. of the a.dminismuion ofcilh11.:r inst\lurion. The news is reporicd ;11i accuratdy .1.nd ohjecrivdy .is possible:, Unsigned editorials repm;ent rhe opiniun ,lf the majdrity of rhc Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing F.ditor and department ediwrs. Commentaries, lcctcrs <Hld columm prcsi:nt chc views of the ,uHh<m, ,:ind f\ot neces.~arily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space ii; available w aJ/ member~ of rhc None Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free cxprc.~siun of varying opmioni; (hrough letters is encouraged. 
Contacting The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-53U Managing Editor/Assisranr ME 631-4541 Advmising 631 ·6900/8840 New.,/Photo 631-5323 System, 631-8839 Sport, 631-4543 Fax 6.~1-6927 Scene/S.1.int Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoint E·Mail Viewpoinr. l@mi.edu Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Ad E-Mail ob:server@darwin.cc. nd.ed u Office M:rnagcr/General Information 631-7471 News E-Mail ob.server.obsnews. J@nd.edu 

Benedictine Sisters Break Stereotypes 
On a sunny winter Saturday, 10 children went to an overnight visit to Our Lady of Grace Monastery in Beech Grove, Ind. They werr guesl<; ofSL-;ter Joan Marie Massura. They rno~ived a tour of the buildings: the chapel, the mtrnat center (a former board­ing school), the g;mnasium and an Olympic-size swimming pool. 
Julia A. Ferraro 
The children invited Sr. Joan Marie lo go swimming with them. She finally agreed, and they were surprised when she appearnd wearing a regular woman's bathing suit. One of them asked why the suit wasn't black or grey. Despite this pm­conception about the blandness ofrnligious clothes, the youngsters had plenty of fun with their host for nearly two hours in the pool. 
During her time with the children ­which included staying up until 2:30 a.m. Sunday-Sister Joan Marie discovemd that these children carried with them stereotypes about women religious more common to previous generations. It causP,d her to wonder where they acquired such ideas. 
Aftm· all, it is rare to see women religious in Catholic elementary schools today. Those who do teach are by no means the stern, ruler-wielding, black-habited nuns of three or four decades ago. Where, then, do mod­ern children acquire these ideas of women who sorvr God in this extraordinary way? 
One possibility may be the children's own pan'llts and grandparents. In the face of frequent news reports about juvenile delin­quency, stories may circulate about how it was "in the olden days." Tales of Sisters' strict discipline, aloof attitudes and frown­ing faces -told with the best of intentions -could create vivid images for a child, which will not easily be dispelled. 
These same tales have given srreenwrit­ers plenty of fodder for movies and televi­sion programs in which women religious arc still presented clothed in old-style habits and displaying pre-Vatican II bl,hav­ior. For anyone who takes time to get to know the Benedictines of Beech Grove ­and numerous other religious congrega­tions in America -these stereotypes could not be further from the truth. Women reli­gious today are women facing the coming millennium with hope and fervent anticipa­tion. 
"Why would a woman give up a perfectly good career to become a religious?" asks the Benedictines' Web site (www.benedic­line.com). The answer is provided: "She wouldn't. Nor does she have to." 
This community of 70 women boasts a lawyer, an athletic trainer, a public librari­an, a systems analyst and a host of other professional women as members. "A career does not necessarily have to run c01mter to religious life," said Sister Sheila Marie Fitzgerald. "There is a blend there." 
The Sisters live together at Ow-Lady of Grace Mona.'itery on the south side of lndianapolis, gathering three times each day for the Liturgy of the Hours, as well as for Mass. They are modern monastics, fol­lowing the 1,500-year-old Rule of St. Oenedict while also being productive mem­bers of the local work force, 
The Sisters strive for the balance between work and prayer that St. Benedict stressed. They use their God-given talents in their careers, which is another point this great saint made. And, in their quarterly Chapter meetings when the entire commu­nity gathers, each member is allowP,d to speak about the matters up for discussion -from the newest novice to the most senior nun. This follows St. Benedict's rea­soning that the Holy Spirit touehes all hearts, not just the "oldest" or the "wisest." 
"A lot of the Huie deals with day-to-day things," Sister Sheila Marie commented. Sister Mary Luke Jones added that the Rule focuses on "the importance of the person and the relationships of those who live together in the monastic community." 
Sister Mary Luke notes that the Beech Grove Benedictines profess vows of stabili­ty, conversion and obedience (as do all who follow St. Benedict's Rule), a suitable com­bination for the 21st century. Stability is explained no longer as the link to "one spe­cific place" or monastery, but as the knowl­odge that each morning, rain or shine, good or bad, members ot'the community will gather in the chapel to pray as one. The women may go their separate ways aft.er the final "Amen," yet they know they will return to the community later that day to pray again. Through community prayer, "I hear the Word of God in a different way," than in solitary prayer, said Sister Cathy Anne. 
Sister Joan Marie compares the vow of conversion to the Bill Mw-ray film "Groundhog Day." It is the ongoing effort. to make one's life, and the world, better. Becoming ever more aware of God's action in onP,'s life and cooperating with that action are key. That the Sisters do this "in the world" working side by side with lay people, adds to their ministry. 
Those who work with the Sisters know them as "real people." They tell hilarious stories and joke with each other frequently. (They have even offered their stories to the author of"Nunsense" to use in futurn pro­jects.) They share housekeeping duties, including washing their fair share of dishes in the kitchen or sweeping floors. They enjoy sharing a Sunday meal and conversa­tion after Mass with visitors to their chapel. Sister Sheila Marie has found, "Things I really like to do, I still get a chance to do." For her, those things include hiking, biking and other outdoor activities. 
The Sisters uphold St. Benedict's man­date to make guests feel welcome, hosting ever:rthing from yoga classes to square dancing fund-raisers in their well-main­tained facilities. They have good days and bad days, like everyone else. When they are ill with a cold or the flu (or something more serious), they may not always be "good patienl'l." 
With a rnputation for their musical abili­ty, the Sisters have written and produced a number or collections over tlrn ynars. Tim music is of professional quality -like everything else they do -inspiring and current with the times. They are creative in other ways, selling their crafL~ lo raiso morn~y for the poor, even sewing some of thoir O'wll clothes. 
They are comfortable with teclmology, which is evident in the creation of their Web site. They have produced their won video -with help from friends of the com­munity -about Benedictine religious life. Their forward thinking is proving attrac­tive; Ten percent of the community is in various stages of formation, moving toward profession of final vows. These newcomers balance career and prayer with studies on the Huie and history of the life. 
ll is a lull life, a busy life. Buoyed by prayer and community, the Sisters find strength in God and in each other. Community life enables them to "focus on growing togetlrnr, challenging each other to be holier, stronger," observes Sister Mary Luke. They are family in the truest sense, and their smiles and attitudes reflect the peace lhat comes with loving and being loved in this context. 
Thr, visiting children discovemd as much during their visit to Our Lady of Grace. Upon their departure, a few admittod that they had not wanted to come. The young­sters had thought the Sisters would be mean, "We knew wo'd find at least one nice one, though," remarked one child. 
They let\ with their stereotypes broken and the awareness that the Benedictines of Beech Grove are very much like their mothers, aunl'i or older sisters: women striving to serve God and the world now and into the 21st century. 
Julie Jl. Ferraro is the r1xecwive direclor 
ofthe PIT Troupe theatre company. I !er co!­
wnn appears every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

¦ D0ONtSBUIW GARRY TRUDEAU 
1rp;ouw IJ& PAl<To,= me,h

MR. THU!7PUCJ<ER7 I'M 
A /JAY OrMUrii!CIN 5UP­

!30RRY mP/5TUR8 Yat 
POl<TOF TH/3 l/.N. 5 ANTI­

f3!R-IMNGUYEN VAN 
POV!3RJY P/?06/<?A/Yf, N&'P

PHRU? PROM -rll/3 NIK& 
ee PlfePJ,,YfONO/i'fiP/r YWP

0Rf3ANIZATION,,, 
Af3/?l£ TO 1?i3A PARTOFIT­
¦ Quon OF THE DAY 
, No civilized person goes to bed the same day he gets up.' 
-Richard Harding Davis 


----------------~ 
VIEWPOINT 

_______________________ page 13

Thursday, March 4, 1999 
¦ MISERERE MEI, DEUS 
'You Don't Know What's Goin' On, Do You, Mr. Jones?' 
As u 11w111hnr of' 1ho llonors Program, I am privih•gi•d 10 IH' ahln lo tak,1 a class with a professor of the English faculty by Uw name of Stl'plwn 1;r1\dman. During lhe course• of this yl!ar. lw has introrfucnd ml' all(! l111~ nwmlwrs of my sominar class to a 11umlH•r of' intc•rnsting works of liWraturn. but hns latdy rnadn a hugP contribution to mv l!ducation 1wrso11ally. The bost part is Lh11t hc• has just made this contribution arcidcntally. 
Nathaniel Hannan 
\\'1' hav1• just finishPd rnading a work hy :\lid11•I clP Mor1taigrw .-ntitl1•d "On tlw C:a1111il>als." In this short work. Mo11taig1w narralPs a 11umlwr of striking points, but rwrlrnps mos1 striking is his _commentary_ 1rn llw wnv that m1•mb1irs ol westt!rll soci­PLV tn•at c;ad1 otlwr. IIP paints thn pidurn o(a naLivP trilw in which pnoplt1 rngard nach otlll'r as llwir "otlH•1· hall'," and so LrPal !'al"h ol111•r in a particularly humane wav. 
·(tw t'VPning afttir lhis class, my class­mall•s and I. along with profPssor Frl'flman, sPt out !"or Llw Chicago Lyrk Op!'ra to SP!' a lovely p1\rforma1H:!! of Bonwo and .lulit~t. \Vii all slrnwml up dr1•ssf'd to tlw ni1ws. and crammed into vans Lo mak1\ Ltrn trip ovt\r. We parked a block from tlw tallnst building in tlw world. and procc!edPd lo Lim opera hous1\ to s1•11 orn• or tlw bt'st productions that I haw l'Vt\r IWl'll privih•gN! to witness. We tlHm 1·durtwd 11uit<' happy L(l Notre llamn, quoting Monty Python lo !\ach other and gimnrally Pnjoying our comfort. . 
I was trnatml. in a way, to hav11 a w1n­cl nw sPat on our rPturn homn. ·we rPllll"llPd via tlw Dan Byan. running by Urn projnrts and tho slums of' Chicago. 
Tlw irn'.on!,(ruily of our situation struck 11w: lwrP w1i w1•re. fresh from a somewhat highbrow cultural PV<•nt, passing within a miln of' thosP who will nevnr be able to apprndatti sud1 things. Wlwrn thn of!'cn­siv1\1rnss of' rap actually has meanmg. Wlwn' childrnn din, and bn.bins cry, and rnottwrs go a-plPading. . 
What does it say about us as a socwty whPn within a I 5-minute drive of the world's tallest building lies such horrible cfoath nnd poverty'? Where am our priori­ti(is'! I am nnt advocating that we rip down tlw ad1i1wumnnts of humanity. or stop apprnciating !Im dnlights ol' culturn. I might sugg(\SL. though, that we furthnr our 1•llorts as a wholn to form an active sym­pathy with thos<' not abln to takn advan­tagn of our opporlunitills. Social justice is a rough issu11 to implement. I would sug­gnst though that thosn souls who look out from tho windows or tlw projects would be !,{lad ,wnn of our most f'utiln attempts to lwlp tlwrn. 
Nathaniel lla11nrrn is nfrrHhnwnjoinl 11mjori11f1 in tlwolom1 and philosophy and <·an he n·adwd hy e-mail at llanm111.:J@11d.<1du. llis column appears 1•1•ery oilwr Wednesdoy. 
Thr· r•frms ,•.rpre.''Snl i11 lhis l'olum11 Ctr<' those oft/u: rutllwr and nol necessarily those of Tlw Ohsert•er, 
¦ LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Affirmative Action Compensates for Undeserved Discrimination Against Minorities 

I am writing in rnsponse to the lntter writtnn by Leah Ashe in Wednesday's Obsnrvnr. . 
Apparenlly, Ms. Ashe believes that the maJor­itv (read white people) should forever ho the n1ost powerful group in society and monopolize access to all resources. Othnrwisr., why would she tnll us all to accnpt ilwquality as sorrnihow natural to our social system and to stop striving for changfl'? If pnople of' all races had accnss to similar oducational and economic opportuni­ties. then yns. a morit systr.m without prnfcr­cnces would be fair. 
But this is not the case. In general. minorities have access to fewer resources than the major­ity. This inequality has nothing to do with abili­ty or merit. Affirmative action exists to com­pensate for the uncleservnd disadvantagns minoritins experience. 
Ms. Ashe tells us that she wants a job based on her own accnmplishments. Wnll, Ms. /\she never would have had thn opportunity to bn employed as an engineer if wonwn l_1ad not decidnd to combat the system and fight for equality. Affirmative action also r,xists because women and minoritins are still discrirninatnd against in hiring, even wlrnn they ar,1 as. if not more, qualified than men. There is an al~un­dance of sodologic.al research that provides evidence of such discrimination. 
Ms. Ashe docs have a point wlwn shn says that, in general. womnn arn not as strong as men. But I wondnr how Ms. /\shn would fonl if, God forbid, she wnre raped and thn only policn officer available to report tlw crimn was a largn male who workncl in an all-male prncinct? Would Urn fact that the ofl'icnr did 20 morn push-ups than a fomale really matlPr then? 
Gail Mulligan 
Third-Year ( :raduate Student 
I)cparrmcnt of Sociology 
March j, 1999 
A Letter to the Class of 2000 
Tim past week. I fnlt I lot my fellow classmates down. I was wrong. In a snnse, I let myse_lf down wlrnn Kara Uf!leman, Bradley Hayes, Jill 
0 Orilowski, and I decided lo withdraw from run­ning for senior class officers. 
Ilowevor, I'm the only one who really had to withdraw -from Notre Dame, that is. For the past two weeks, I had Lhc delusion of being t!rn president of tlrn school. Talk about an ego tnp. With those thoughts in my head came extrcmn paranoia, amnesia. frustration, and most of ?-II, stress. Even though I would rather be typmg this letter in LaFortune or my dorm room, I'm staying at homo trying to mako the most of my nxtcnded brnak. 
Hunning for class president was a silent dream of mine since my home state of West vir­giniu lost to some Catholic scho_ol ba~k i_n '88. I didn't even like Notre Dame until my JUlllor year in high school. Yns, it's true. Since then, I've been ostracized by a few acquaintances just bticause I go tu Notre Dame. Now I reel ostra­cized from Nf) because of some "improper" actions. likr throwing away 45 dollars worth of caffeine pills to protest the sale of these items at the lluddlc. 
This past week. I did hoar sonrn rumors about me -somo of them shocking (me being presi­dflnt of GLND/SMC'?l. most of them not (being hospitalized for ovor two wcoks this semester). I have no problem tolling my st'.1ry to anyone w~o cares. My new ()-mall address 1s 11ooddomers@hotmail.com. ° Finally, I want to congratulate /\Iida. Wal~er, Hichie D , and Nina for tlrnir successful eloct10n. /\!so, I want to thank all the Domrrs that havn kept me in th()ir prayers and tl~ougl:ts. 
For now. I'm going lo stay 111 wild and won­derful West Virginia for a while. Enjoy your spring breaks and don't do anything I wouldn't do. 
Steve D'Avria 
Keenan Hall March 2, 1999 
C 
s 

page 14--------------------------OTHE ----------------Thursday, March 4, 1999
BSERVER 

Music Is In the llir lromSh 
By JULIA GILLESPIE Assistant Scene Editor 
As Spring Break approaches, campus musical groups. such as Shenanigans and the Glee Club, prepare to leave on tours. Other musical groups conLinue to practice for concerts that they will perform immediately 
after break. Here's a look  at some of the plans of Notre Dame's music  
groups:  
Shenanigans  

Shenanigans is generally a "show choir," or a singing and dancing ensemblll. rt consists of eight couples that perform musical numbers. rt also has a five-piece band that plays with it all of the time. There are other members of Shenanigans who only play for the two big shows. 
Shenanigans performs a Christmas show and a spring show. On April 26, Lhe group will perform in Washington Hall at 8 p.m. Its performance will consist of Broadway show tunes, including "Rent," "Chicago," "Rag Time." "Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dream Coat," "Smokey Joe's Cafe," "Big" and "Footloose." Tickets are available at the door. 
Shenanigans has worked hard all semester in preparation for its spring break tour. Its first stop is Knoxville, Tenn. The members will go through Alabama and perform in Huntsville and Birmingham. The group will stop in Atlanta and then perform in Ocala, Fla. The students will travel by bus and stay with families affiliated with the Notre Dame Alumni Club. They will also perform for those groups. 
Shenanigans' member Megan Renner said, "The thing that makes Shenanigans unique is that we are the only group on campus who has done Broadway tunes for years and years -we are the only show choir. Personally. it has been a lot of fun and I feel enthusiastic about it, because of how wonderful it is to perform for other members of the Notre Dame community with your friends." 
Concert Band 

The Concert Band also performs show tunes. This musical group consists of 65 members. Auditions for the Concert 

Band occur in early December. It is more selective than the marching band, but most of the membt'lrs of the Conc:ert Band do b•ilong to the marching band. 
Although it is not touring over Spring Break, it will perform in concert at the Joyce Center two weeks after Spring Break. Their performance is free and open to the public. It expects a good turn out. 
It will also go on an eight-day tour after this May's commencement cere­monies. They will travel through Ireland and England. 
According lo Concert Band president Andy Horner, "We offer a good performance that has something for everyone, such as a rew jazzy songs that are conducted by Father George. We are also playing an Andrew Lloyd Webber Medley." 
A lot of the Concert Band's performance will consist of show tunes, such as "Phantom of the Opera," "Evita" and "Jesus Christ Superstar." Its pro­gram will also include Irish folk songs and a syinphonic finale to the New World Symphony. It will also include smaller pieces and marches. 
The idea of the musical selections is for everyone to have a good time. People sometimes clap along to some of their pieces. 
Two graduate student members of the Concert Band will also be pt~r­forming solos. Lane Weaver will perform a trombone solo and l.uvin Villareal will perform a trumpet solo. 
Sirens 
Sirens is another student singing club. Although Sirens is now an all­female singing group, it used to consist of both men and women. At that time, it was called the Cadenzas. It became all-female in 1997 and changed names in September of 1998. 
This a capella musical group performs contemporary music that is easily recognizable. For example, it performs "Forn," "Son of' a Preacher Man" and "Strong Enough." 
Sirens usually practices four hours a week. The women of Sirens are dedicated to their performances. They all have strong voices. Due to the nature of a capella performances, they all must know how the music sounds, because it requires such strong voices. Sophomorn member of Sirens, Maria Petrillo expressed her feelings about singing for Sirens. 
"A cappella is a different kind of music. It is fun and entertaining. I am lucky to be part of such a talented singing group. I f'e()l lucky to work with such a gifted group of people, who will put in that amount of time. We have a lot of fun together and we are all good friends." 

Fame is waiting tor vou. 
Scene is looking tor: Writers Copv Editors Assistant Editors Overall Good People 

Give Mike acall at 1-4540 if vou are interested 

O
THE

Thur~day, March 4, 1999 ---------page 15
BSERVER 
¦ 8cene THROUGH OUR EVES 

anigans to the Choralel 
Glee Club 
Tlw c;1.," Club has nxisti,d as a campus ensemble !'or 8:l y1mrs. 
ThnrP an' appr-oximalt!ly (i!i nwmbm·s. 
(;Jno Club will 1wrform their annual spring co11­cPrt on Mardi 11), at 8 p.m. in Washington Ila.II. Tho show is frpn ror all to Pnjoy. 
Tlw c;lnP Club is touring ovor spring brnak throughout Ow South. Tlwy will tour through tho Carolinas and K1~ntw:ky. 
Undertones 
Tlw Uud1·rlo11cs. which includes m<!mbnrs of thP Cll'P Club. is similar to Sirens. It is all-male and also pnrl'orms contnrnporary musical snlec­tions. Sll('h as songs l'rom tlw "Hnsnrvoir Dogs" soundtrark. Tlw Unclnrlones arn pnrl'orming Mardi 27. at Saint Mary's Juninr Mom's Woeknnd. 
Chorale 
Tl11• Notn· Danw C:horaln is mrnthnr Notrn Damn rhoir. It draws from a mon' traditional musical sPIPclion. 1:or PXamplri. it ot't1m sings with orch1~s­l ras L11at includ<! works of Buch, B1inthovP11, 
Wordless Music to 
llaycln, llandol, Schubert, Mendelssohn, Mozart and Strautsky. It sings many of' tlrnse compositions in either Latin or German. 
Chorale consists of about bO students and has both main and female members. Junior Rachel llans,•n has bocn a member o{' lh<' choir for three years. 
"Thn people am fun and down-to-earth. You get to know oach other well through tours and every­one has a good limo." she said. 
Hansen enjoyed the tour during Christmas break. Members of the chorale toured from llouston to Florida and wont through Nuw Orleans. Th<' members mostly stayed with al.umni familins. 
The choir is well-known for their annual Mnssiah performances that occur at Notre Dame during December. This pnrformancc is both rivet­ing and inspiring. 
Upcoming porformancns for the Chorale includo a show on March 24. al 114 N. Ironwood Drive, South Bond. Students will sing at a Church prayer service. 
It will also perform at the Basilica of the Sacred llnart on April 14. This is their Spring concert. which is free and open to the public. 
Tim opportunili!1s to enjoy a broad range of stu­dent musical groups certainly are available around campus from now until the end of the year. If any of thos1! options interest you, you may show your support by alt!1nding some of the upcoming pnrl"ormancns. 
'Save the Day 
By MICHAEL VANEGAS 
Assistant Scene Edi(or 
I'm sure you've all heard those cliched quotations about the importance of music in our lives. "Music is the only truly universal language." Yadda, yo.dda, yadda. 
But if you think about it, music ls really an Impor­tant part of our lives. I'm not talking about our cd players or our favorite radio stations. What I'm talk­ing about is that musk that fills our heads when we don't really think about it. 
I've been a big fan of movies since I was a kid, and because of this, I've grown to love movie sound· tracks. But like I said, I don't care much for wordy music -I enjoy instrumental music, and with many soundtracks, instrumental music is all that is avail· able. And I like it that way. 
I guess you could say that one of the foremost instrumental composers in Hollywood today is John Williams. Though his music is probably a little too commercial for its own good, it is also very well­known due to Williams' relationship with Steven SpielbMg. (I think he's some Hollywood director that has made some pretty good films. I'm not sure, but that's what I've heard.) 
Anyway, if you didn't know already, Williams is the guy who scored the music for the "Star Wars" trilogy. Now, these throe films did okay at the box­office, but it is their music that is probably the most recognizable film music around. Porsonally, I can't stand it. But when you consider that almost anyone around the world would be able to pinpoint its ori­gin, you have to give it some credit. It can invade your mind, forcing you to whistle that catchy outer­spac~ epic music. 
Williams also scored the soundtracks for several other blockbuster films. Do you recognize thesti names?: "Jaws," "Indiana Jones~ (all three of them), "Jurassic Park." "Schindler's List," "E.T.," "Close Encounters of the Third Kind" and KSaving Private Ryan." 
It is bis latest, "Saving Private Byan," that has caught my attention in the past couple of months. When l bought the soundtrack, I wasn't immediately sure if it was worth it. Though I had seen the lilm. the music wasn't instantly a factor -for those of you who have seen it, the most effective aspect of the movie was its violence. But I did remember the funeral mltrch that closed the film. This is the piece that frames the soundtrack. 
As I said above, it should be described as a funer­al march. J am not saying that it is a dull piece of work -in fact, It is one of the more powerful fllm songs I have ever heard. Though it is a slow piece, it kind of keeps that same special quality that defines the actual film. It is moving and patriotic -and it can turn your day around even though it. involves the tragic heroism of World War II. 
But that's the cool thing about John Williams. Though his music can be kind of cheesy, ho seoms to be able to catch the fun and the emotion of the movies he scores. l knnw that this is his job, but Williams is just so good at it, it needs to be recog· nized. 
What I'd like to seen, now that Williams has pretty much made his mark on cinema. is l'or him lo vim• ture into television work. Wouldn't that "RR" theme song be so much more excruciating if it were more emotional -perhaps with the mark of John Williams? I guess the television world could only wish that he would venture out of film. 
All I know is that once in a while. especially in this stressful working environment of Notre Danw. what a person really n!'lcds is to listen to a p<'acefu! piecH of music, without words. Tonight, whPn I lny mysnlf to sleep, I know I 1,vlll !'all asleop to t.hat "Saving Privat" Ryan" soundtrack. Some of you might think this is pathetic. But ifit calms me down. who cares'? Thanks, Mr. WlllJams, !'or your musical prowess. 

UPCOMING PERFORMANCES AT NOTRE DAME 
*GLEE CLUB: Friday, March 19 *CONCERT BAND: Tuesday, March 23 *CHORALE:Wednesday, March 24 *SHENANIGANS: Monday, April 26 

Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Chorale 

Members of the 1998-1999 Notre Dame Chorale perform in the Basilica. 
The oiews expressed in Scene Through Our Eyes are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer, 
... 

page 16 The Observer• SPORTS Thursday, March 4, 1999 
¦ NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE 

Offense drives Oilers past Sabres 
IO~r 
Associated Press lead in the second period. He Hurricanes beat Boston 2-1 
/J1½•:~·<•Ut.·· ... 
,~i~i,~t 
s 
Salt Lake Ol would have to: their meetings. under a· hill th Utah teglslatute'rL Wednesday. 
. House BiH.285, sponsori:\d•,b,y !Jou.so Minority' I~ea.d~('JJ Jones,.. i;9qµires thee Organizing Committee op operating rulesJQ meetings and docume public asa c milUontM.:staJe'./WY build Olympic facilities . "lthirikthat tbis'M that we liavo ·. accountable OJ Sen. Karen Hal the bill .in the Se.oa will ensure that th be. open toiSLO very s\ippoi:tiv we'll have. o Olympics ever. 
Jones said required to subJ'tl1t meetings policies to . zation's manageme.o tee and to ane Isla.live OlJmple{ Committee for review fro than Ja.n. l. 
Mitt Rol'hhey/S!;Qf;f$ Xl~"Y president, has expressed com~ mitment to a spirit ofQpenness ·· in the g.a.qle$, fl,tid] ?lJ~ll¢y ··· Thomas, Sl:OC's .vfoe pl"es_j.denf. o for communications/said a.had···•· p hoc committee has been.nv:et-: .ss • ing to draft proposed policies, th 
"They met yestetdaylitet4Uy for about 2J/2 hours .. They'te<·· starting to formulate policie!ar,> but basically ·RtYP,<J desires mirror our own, Thomas onTues~~yo; 
Jones said h~ ap 
BUHALO, NY 
Boris Mironov and Bill Guerin each scored twice as the Edmonton Oilers beat the Buffalo Sabres 5-3 Wednesday night to give goal­tender Steve Passmore his first NIJL win. 
Passmore, starting in place of starter Bob Essensa, made 29 saves. 
l.n his only two previous NHL starts Passmore lost to 
Anaheim  2-1  and  tied  
Carolina.  
Ruffalo  native  Todd  
Marchant  also  scored  for  

Edmonton. and Guerin's empty-netter capped the scoring. 
'.Vlichacl Peca scored twice for Ruffalo and Jason Woollev had a goal and an assist fo~ the Sabres. 
The Sabres coughf'd up the puck for a pair of goals as the Oilers took a 2-0 lead in the first period. 
Guerin's slap shot from the top of the f'aceoff circle to the left of goaltender Dwayne Roloson caught the net just inside the far post at 7:12. 
The Sabres have gone 2-2-2 since Roloson replaced injured Dominik Hasek, who has been nursing a strained groin. 
Marchant, who scored two goals including the game win­ner in Edmonton's 6-3 win over Buffalo on Friday, scored the second goal at 9:35 when Buffalo left the puck sit­ting in the slot and left Marchant uncovered. 
Woollev scored the Sabres' first goal when he collected the puck from Michal Grosek and skated behind the net for a wraparound goal at 14:50. Woolley fed Peca in front for the tying goal at 16: 37. 
Mironov's two goals restored Edmonton's two-goal scored uff a faccoff' at 9:20 with a shot through a screen, assisted by Josef Beranek with the teams skating four­on-four. 
Mironov added his 11th goal on the power play with a ris­ing wrist shot from the point at 11:34. 
It was the fourth career multi-goal game for Mironov, who extrmded his goal-scoring streak to four games. 
The Sabres replaced Roloson with 21-year-old Martin Biron after Mironov's s1wond goal, which made it 4­2. 
Roloson faced 13 shots and made nine savf's in place of Hasek, who has been day-lo­dav with the Sabres but could play as soon as Friday. 
An apparent goal by Buffalo's Miroslav Satan was disallowed late in the second period when the replay showed Grosek had skater! into the crease. 
Peca popped in a pass from Satan in the slot for his 24th goal at 6:25. 
lt was Peca's eighth career multi-goal game and his fourth of the season. 
Satan has 12 points (7-5) in his last 10 games, including a six-game goal streak. 
The Sabres are 2-8-1 in their last 11 games with Edmonton. 
Buffalo blew some chances to tie the game. 
Midway through the third period Brian Holzinger flipped the puck over an open net. 
Curtis Brown hit the side of an open net during a Sabres power play with five minutes to play. 
Hurricanes2,Br~ns1 
Martin Gelinas had a goal and an assist as the Carolina 

Wednesday night, snapping the Bruins' five-game unbeat­en streak. 
Boston came into the game 4-0-l in its last five and in eighth place in the Eastern Conference playoff race, but couldn't manufacture much offense against the tight­checking Hurricanes. 
The victory gave the Southeast Division-leading llurricancs a four-game hom1! unbeaten streak despitH their continued struggles on the power play. 
Gelinas gave Carolina a 2-1 lead early in the second peri­od, taking a centering pass from behind the net from Keith Primeau and one-timing it through the legs of Boston goaltender Byron Dafoe. 
It was Gelinas' 11th of the season and first since scoring two at Buffalo on Feb. 15. 
The two teams traded first­period goals. 
Glen Wesley scored 7:46 into the game after a center­ing pass from Gelinas hit off the skate of Boston's Dmitri Khristich and right to the Carolina defensrman in the slot, where he beat Daf'ol! up high. 
Anson Carter notched his 11th of the season 1 :22 before the end of the period after Carolina's defense got caught in a line change, allowing the left wing to skate in all alonH on Arturs lrbe. 
Carolina's power play, the worst in the NHL, continued to sputter, going O-for-6 against the league's top penalty-killing team. 
The Hurricanes arc now scoreless on their last 23 chances with the man advan­tage and two for their last 54. 
Dave Karpa returned to the Carolina defensive unit after missing 41 games with torn ligaments in his right knee. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.rn. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right to edir all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES  Beanie Baby -Found Feb. 15th between South Dining Hall and the K of C. (It looks new so I'm assum­ ~-F_o_R_RE_N_T_  __.I  lL-_F_o_R_sA_L_E_  __.  'FREE BOOK' Read a novel for a psychology study. For more info call Dr.  Look, it's Miami G-dog, sup? I hope your feelings  
Spring Break Bahamas Party  ing that it's someones V-day gilt.)  WALK TO SCHOOL  NEW Rates Phone Cards  Radvansky's Memory lab 1-9003  aren't hurt that Usher and I will be  
Cruise!5Nights  Calf 234-6445.  2·6 BEDROOM STARTING $185  282min. $20  together in the Bahamas this break.  
$279! Includes Meals & Free  MONTH/PERSON 232-2595  call  Carolyn&Mary(and Aaron, though  
Parties!AwesomeBeaches,Nightlife!  Lost: 100 CDs that were in a black  258-4805  you'll never read this)-Get ready for  Burly women are treasures and  
Departs From Florida!Cancun &  CaseLogic carrying case. Lost in  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  the time of our lives!1!! Cancun here  killer diller.  
Jamaica $399!  laFortune the night of 2/26/99.  219-291-7153  Beautiful brass bed.queen size.with  we come! (and we're legal)  
springbreaktravel.com  Monetary reward being offered if  orthopedic mattress set and  Love the fourth party  Could this be the last time?  
1·800-678-6386 Spring Break Panama City  found. No questions asked. PleaseIrail Bria;:";E;•oro  FLORIDA SPRING BREAK SANDPIPER-BEACON BEACH RESORT PANAMA CITY BEACH  deluxe frame.New,never used, still in plastic. $235  Hockey ROCKS!!! Irish leers are 2 hot 2 handle  Well, here it goes ... SpoonbalL ..catch the fever.  
$129!Boardwalk Room w/Kitchen  FLORIDA FROM $159 PER PER·  219-862-2082  
Next To Clubs! 7 Parties-Free Drinks/Daytona  SUMMER CAMP JOBS  SON 3 POOLS 1 INDOOR POOULAZY  TICKETS  SEAN Best wishes for a great birthday­ Well, let's see...this paper's due at 7 a.m...looks like another long  
$149!South Beach $129!Cocoa  LAND/WATEA SPORTS  RIVER RIDE HUGE BEACHSIDE  wow, a whole week to celebrate  night  
Beach $1491 springbreaktravel.com  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS/  HOTTUB SUITES UP TO 10 PEO·  Need your extra graduation  Have FUN  
1 ·800-678-6386  LAKE PLACID  PLE FREE INFO 1·800-488-8828  tickets!  To all those people out in Siegfried  
VISIT US www.raquettelake.com  WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM  Please call Kelly  We Going Padre. We Going  4A, thanks for calling me and mak·  
GET THE HECK OUT OF HERE!  1-800· 786-8373  @243-8932  Padre ...  ing those monkey noises on the  
Mexico.the Caribbean or Jamaica $250 r/t.Other worldwide destina·  EARN MONEY OVER SPRING  3 BDRM, DUPLEX, REMODELED, 501 EDDY ST.  PERSONAL  phone. That meant a lot to me.  
tiohs cheap.Book tickets on line  BREAK  1 Ml. FROM CAMPUS.APPLI­ come dance all night before  Word is Con-dogg is on the D.L  
www.airtech com or (212)219-7000.  The Early Childhood and  ANCES, W/D  Fax it fast at THE COPY SHOP in  you leave for break to  
Development Center at Notre Dame  273-8332.  LaFortune.  SABOR  LATINO  Congratulations to JP for entering  
How Green is Green?  and at Saint Mary's College has  FAX Sending and Receiving  hottest rhythms in the area  the Section Leader Hall of Fame  
- Work in Ireland on a Student Work  employment opportunities over  House For Rent  63HAX1  salsa. rnerengue. and more!  
Abroad Program and find out!  Spring Break (March 8-10) tor indi­ 4-5 Bedroom  Tonight!  Eric will do his best to follow in his  
Call 1-888-Couricil arid ask tor  viduals whO enjoy young children.If  Close to Campus  When you need copies .  Club Landing, 10 p.m.  footsteps  
Tom.  you are available to work either  Includes: Dishwasher,  We're OPEN!!  
7:30-1 :15 or 12:00-6:00 (Moriday  Washer/Dryer, Fridge, Stove.  THE COPY SHOP  Kirk. are we starting at 10:30 on  
CANCUN, BAHAMAS  through Friday)and are interested in  Remodeling Kitchen in spring.  LaFortuM Student Center  MR and SR say that Johnny Cash  Friday?  
PANAMA CITY  spending t,me reading children's  RENT REDUCED!  631·COPY  is the man.  
Get FREE PARTIES with USA  books.building with  Call 289-4712  Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight  Happy Early Birthday Jon!  
Spring Break'  blocks,and singing songs with chll­ FrL 7:30am-7:00pm  El Pescador is now El Papador  
Call 1-888· 777-4642 to book your  dren,please contact  SUMMER SUBLEASE  Sat: Noon-6:00pm  Start spreading the news. I'm leav­ 
trip today! Thayer Kramer at 631-3344 or Cindy Hestad at 284-4693 as soonILOST & FOUND I as possible.Have fun and get paid  1 bdrm Campus View apt Call Carrie @ 273-2989  Sun: Noon-Midnight $6 HAIRCUTS  MW • Iam so happy that you've decided to move to Iraq and teach there! Congratulations. You'll do  ing today. I want to be a part of it -Kennebunk Maine.  
too'  Well Maintained 4 Bdrm House for  Vito's Barbershop  great in the Middle East!  Timmyo Matt and Murph -have fun  
LOST: Notre Dame Class Ring.  Rent  1523 Lincolnway West  in Florida'  
Description: Aquamarine stone with  Babysitter needed in my  Walking/Biking Distance to ND  Closed Suri. and Wed.  AW -Why you so Jersey? What in  
name engraved on th€ inside of the  home.Flexible day time hours.Call  Garage,Appliances,Satellite Dish  Mon,Tues,Thurs,Fri 8·4  the &'·('&$0/o" happened to this  Steph don't let Ali and Meg get in  
ring. lnitials-PML Call 273-9813  243-5540.  284•4598 or 271-4801  Sat. 8-3  thing?  too much trouble in NJ.  

Thursday, March 4, 1999 The Observer• PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
Calendar of Events 
Freshman Retreat #22 (March 26-27) Sign-up Beginning Monday, March 1, 103 
Hesburgh Library, 112 Badin Hall or see your hall rector 
Freshman Retreat #23 (April 9-10) Sign-up 
Beginning Monday, March 15, 103 Hesburgh Library, 112 Badin Hall or see your hall rector 
Marriage Preparation Retreat 
Friday-Saturday, March 19-20 Fatima Retreat Center 
El Retiro Retreat 
Friday-Sunday, March 19-21, Sunset Lodge in Glenn, Michigan 
No Greater Love -A Notre Dame day of prayer, music and renewal 
Saturday, March 20, 10:30 a.m.•­
5:30 p.m. in South Dining Hall A spirit-filled gathering for students led by Fr. Michael Baxter, C.S.C. and nationally-renowned musician Dan Consiglio. Students will also be able to choose from several breakout ses­sions led by dynamic speakers from around the Notre Dame community to learn more about different aspects of their faith. 
THIRD SUNDAY OF LENT 
Weekend Presiders at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart Saturday, March 6 Mass 
5:00 p.m. Rev. Peter D. Rocca, C.S.C. 
Sunday, March 7 Mass 
10:00 a.m. 
Rev. D. Reginald Whitt, O.P 
11:45 a.m. 
Rev. Peter D. Rocca, C.S.C. 
Sunday Lenten Vespers 
Rev. Peter D. Rocca, C.S.C. 
Scripture Readings 
1st Reading  Exodus  17:3-7  
2nd Reading  Romans  5: 1-2, 5-8  
Gospel  John  4:5-42  

Maybe you're Supposed to be Unhappy! 
Jim Lies, C.S.C. 
Ask, n11d it will be given you; scnrclt, 1111d you will find; knock, n11d tlte door will be opened for you. For everyone w/10 asks receives, and everyo11e wlw searches finds, and for everyone who knocks, t!,c door will lie opened. Matthew 7:7-8 
We've all heard this gospel passage so many times before that I wonder if we hear it at all anymore. But if we did, it obviously begs a few questions: if all that it says is true, then why am I not living on some Bahamian island somewhere, basking in sunshine and tropical breezes, by day, and living in a mansion by night? I'll tell you why: because, believe it or not, God knows better than I do what will ultimately bring me joy. God knows better than I do my path to fulfillment. Believe it or not, endless days on a Bahamian island may not actually be the key to ultimate fulfillment. I suspect Spring Break will make us aware of the fact that small doses of that which we think we desire might be enough. 
I rtcently read an article in which a woman recommended keeping a list of your special prayer requests -along with the date of each request. She said that a woman did this and was surprised at the way some requests were answered. For example, one was answtred by a change of attitude toward a situation, rather than by a removal of the situa­tion. It reminds me of the old saying that we don't pray so as to change God, but we pray so that God will change us. 
It seems to me that many of our prayers are answered in a way totally different from what we had in mind when we made the request. The point is that many pr<1yers are answered, but in a way so different from what we expected or hoped for that we often fail to recognize the answer, And maybe it's because, believe or not, our perspective is slightly more limited than God's. Maybe, just maybe, God knows better than we do what's good for us. 
Let's take the Novitiate, for instance. The Novitiate is a year in the life of one in for­mation for religious life. It is a year away from the distractions of life to devote our efforts to prayer, study, physical labor, and community. While the Novitiate has its appeal, anyone who knows me, knows that I wasn't meant to live a monastic life; an apostolic religious life, YES, but a monastic life, NO! Needless to say, the raging extrovert in me found my time there a great challenge. Heck, at the time, I considered the best thing that happened to me at the Novitiate was that, while playing basketball one afternoon, I snapped my plantaris muscle in my right calf, and had to miss work period e\·ery day for three weeks! I was not particularly happy at the Novitiate. 
What's interesting, however, is that since that time I\·e come to realize that it's not about being happy, nor is life about being happy. It's about being faithful even in the midst of the struggle; it's about drawing deeply from an undercurrent of joy even when we may not be "happy." 
In hindsight, especially in light of my Novitiate experience, there are a couple of things that I've come to learn the hard way in life. First is that I don't think God intended for us to be happy all of the time. In a weird sort of way, all is as it should be even as we seem to suffer along the way. Maybe disappointment, rejec­tion, and fear are not aberrations, but rather, inevitable and necessary bumps in the road on the journey of life and of faith. If there were ever a season where this ought to make some sense it's during Lent. During Lent, we, the Body of Christ, enter into the suffering of Jesus, so as to enter more fully into his glory. Just as Jesus Christ suffered and died, so as to rise again, so must we, as the Body of Christ, suffer and die, so as to rise again. And not only once, but every day, and throughout our lives. 
Now, I'm no masochist, and if life were only about suffering I'd be pretty depressed. But there's a little secret that we know that the first disciples didn't know: we know the end of the story. We know that, in the end, Christ is the victor! So that even as we suffer, during these days, and beyond, we can draw hope from the knowledge of the resurrection. So that even when we're unhappy, even in the midst of pain, and disappointment, and rejection, we Christians can draw hope from that deep undercurrent of joy that is the knowledge of the resurrection, and of the depths of God's love for us. 
As I reflect on my Novitiate year, I am struck by the fact that even as I was not well­suited for a monastic schedule, and the significantly limited social interaction which the Novitiate has to offer; and even as I thought myself to be unhappy, I knew a deep sense of peace there. There was a rythym of prayer that constantly reminded me of the presence of God even on my worst days. A sense that even in my restlessness, I was in the right pl,Kl'. Without then being able to articulate it, ( know now that I was being nourished by tlw 11·L,Jl­spring of that deep undercurrent of joy, my faith in the resurrection. The great gift of tlw Novitiate for me, is that, to this day, Ican draw from that; and that even in the midst of tlw burdens of my busyness my God has me in mind and in heart. My consolation is in kmm·­ing that even when l feel beat up and discouraged, there is something more to that which i~ happening than that which I see. 
It is what gives me the courage and the perseverance to ask, even when I'm tired and without much hope. It is what keeps me searching even when the effort seems fruitless and without rew;ird. lt is what allows me to knock even when the door seems to have bet•n closed before me. One doesn't need a Novitiate year to realize how much each of us have learned along the way; and, perhaps, how much more we learn through our adversity than at any other times in our lives. I c.1m quite sure that God didn't intend for us to be happy all of the time, even as we often think we ought to be; but nor did he intend for us to Lw with­out hope, and without the prospect of joy, even in the midst of our longing Trust me, Lent would not be my favorite liturgical season if Easter didn't follow hot on its heels! 

-
l¦I 
(Z\MPUSMINISTRY 

page 18 The Observer. SPORTS Thursday, March 4, 1999 
¦ BOXING ¦ HOCKEY 

Associated Press 
NEWYOHK 

Boxing promoter Don King agreed Wednesday to share proceeds from a boxer's next four bouts with a rival promot­er in a deal that ends a civil trial and puts a federal judge in the unusual position of monitoring the pact. 
'This is history," King said. suggesting that some order was needed in the business of boxing. 
The settlement cut short King's testimony in a case brought by boxer [\.!iguel Angel Gonzalez, a super light-weight who last year fought to a draw with six-time world champion Julio Cesar Chavez. 
King and Dan ·Goossen will co-promote the bouts in what both described as a historic pledge to work together, shar­ing expenses and profits, with 
U.S. District .ludgP. Milton Pollack as the final arbitrator of any disputes. 
Pollack, who will be 93 this year, told a jury as he dis­missed them that he had told both sides in the legal dispute to try to reach a deal during lunch. 
He said he was pleased that during "these remaining years in the twilight of my time, I get a chance to do more than just call balls and strikes." 
.Jurors leaving the court­room said they doubted they could have declared either side a clear winner hr.cause the boxing world was surh a mix of handshakes, verbal deals and contracts written in English for boxers who speak -another language. .Juror AngAr Blurhcr Hong called the boxer and King "bullheaded and stubborn." 
Juror Michael Morrison acknowledged that jurors laughed along with King as he testified but added, "Once you take away the hot air and the verbage, I'd never want to draw up a contract with him." 
The 68-year-old King, wear­ing a tie designed as an American flag, praised Gonzalez as reliable and hon­est, saying the boxer had promised he would be his pro­moter for life. 
"He's a wonderful kid, vour honor. He's being enslav·ed," King told Pollack, su&'gesting that the boxer was bemg per­suaded by others to break his deal with King. 
Pollack, though, was skepti­cal of King's insistence that he had clearly explained to Gonzalez that he was signing a contract for a single bout that required him to remain with King for subsequent lights. 
lie asked King whether he spoke Spanish and then traded phrases with him before slip­ping in a line that caused King to laugh. 
"Ahhh! You tried to trick me. That's in French1" King said as the judge smiled. 
After the settlement was reached, Gonzalez said through an interpreter that he was pleased. 
"All I want now is to go fight," he said. 
King said an alliance between promoters such as the one he reached with Goossen might make it easier to communicate with boxers about contracts so they do not take disputes alrnut them to court as frequently. 
"It used to be the promoter took advantage of the fighter. Today the lighters take advan­tage of the promoters" he said. 


Lemieux to buy Penguins 
Associated Press 
PITTSBIJHGH 
He knew how to get a puck past Andy Moog, but can he assemble a multimillion-dollar business deal? 
Mario Lemieux, who led the Pittsburgh Penguins to two Sianley Cup championships, wants to rescufl the team from bankruptcy, keep it in Pittsburgh anti collect the $31.4 million he said he is owed. 
Lemieux is seflking investors to raise $40 million to $50 rnil­1ion and said he wants to assumfl more thnn $60 million in the team's bank loans to buy the Penguins and ensure they don't move to another city. 
Lemieux has filed papers indicating he is owl'd $~1.4 million in deferred compensa­tion, which makes him the club's largest unsecured credi­tor. He said he is willing to exchange some of those mil­lions for equity in the team. 
"My objective is to, obvious­ly, get µaid and keep the team here in Pittsburgh where it belongs," he said. 
The Penguins are about $125 million in debt, or more than the franchise's total value. The team filed for bank­Roger Marino, current co­investment. Lemieux is chair­ruptcy protection in October. 

owner of the franchise, also man of the committee repre­
Lemieux said he expects to plans to submit a reorganiza­senting the team's unsncuredsubmit a plan to buy the team tion plan to Markovitz, even creditors.

Bankruptcy Judge

to IJ .S. though he has lost nearly $40 Marino had hoped that
Bernard Markovitz at a March million operating the club the Lemieux would join him in19 hearing in Pittsburgh. 

last two years. rescuing the club, whichMarkovitz last week threat­
Howard Baldwin, the declared bankruptcy in
ened to place the team into 

Penguins' primary owner from October. But Lemieux, whoreceivership unless he saw a 1991-97 and still a co-owner, has sued Marino to rPcover
finance reorganization plan 

also is looking at trying to money owed to him in a con­soon. The judge said if he con­reorganize the team. tract approved by Haldwin,
verted the Penguins' bank­

Lemieux offered Marino, a said last week he would not ruptcy into a Chapter 7 !iqui­
Boston multimillionaire, little work with Marino. 
dation, he would appornt a sympathy for his financial Lemieux has met with city,

trustee to run the club until a losses. He said Marino isn't a county and state leadfHS tobuyer is found. 

creditor, and he made a bad rally support for the team. 
Looking for a great job for your senior year? 


The Alumni-Senior Club is now accepting Bartender and D.J. applications. 
.. Apply today.:at the Student Activities Office (315 Lafortune) 
for the besijob · on campns!l 
Applications Deadline: March 26 



Thursday, Marc.:h 4, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 19 

¦ GOLF 
Nicklaus to return to links 
As~oc.:ia1L"d Press 
BOSTON Tlw c;oldPn llPar is rnady to conw oul of hib1mmtio11. 
.la1·k Nicklaus, hark at Nnw l•:11!(la11cl Baptist Ilospital to ment with thn doctors who gavll him a rww hip six Wl'Pks ago, nxpncts to IJ,, rhipping and putting in two to llm''' w1inks. 
Bllth Nit'.klaus and Dr. B1:njami11 Bi<\rllaum, 111\arl of orllwpl!dic Sllrgpry at Nnw I .ngla11d Baptist 11 ospital, said tlrn n•habilitalion was going well. So w,-11. in fact. Nicklaus jokr:d that lw would hngin playing golf Thursdav. 
llmdislically. Nicklaus (1xpm:ts Lo lw hack on tlw links in four 111onlhs. 
The !i9-yPar-olcl winner of a n•1·11rd Ii( prot'Pssional majors was trll11bl1HI for yPars hy a dq,:-1•111wativ1\ lnft hip. 
Nicklaus triPd to avoid hip r1•pla1·f'1111'11t surgt•ry with a l'ig­orn11s PX<~ITiSP routine. but linally yiPld1•d wlwn th11 hip lwgan to :11l'Pd his qualily or lifo as wl'II as his gamP. 
"(;oing lo llw shopping ccnlM with my wif'I' or playing athlt\lics, going lishing or hunting, or any­thi11g lik1• that, I couldn't do it All I did was hobh!I•," Nicklaus said. 
As a rPsult, Nicklaus agrn,id to llSP a r1•ra111ir hip rPph1r1•mP11t as parl or a study dircctml by Bi1-rhaum and involving lO hos­pitals. CPramir is smoollwr than matl'l'ials typically us1•d in hip implants and is h1-lil'Vl'd to last l11ngPr. 
Nirklaus will miss tlw Mas!Prs in April !'or Ilw first tinw in 40 ypars. But Ill' hopPs to play in the ~IPrnorial To111·na111P11t tl11• first wP1•k or .lurw. although lw and his doctors agn•p that playing Lim Ba11kBosto11 Classi,.· in August is mon• likl'ly. 
"ThP MPttlllrial is still 111y goal. !Jut wlwthl'r I'll makP Lhat or not, I doubt it." said Nicklaus, who has pu ttml only 12 ti mus in the last thrne months. 
''I'll cnrtainly Im able to play golf' by tlmn. but wlwtlrnr or not­I'll lw able lo play four or five clays in a row and handln lho fi.tligun ol' that is a question. But it gives me a g1ml and if I don't makP that, I've got the Open right aller and the S(mior right af'lPr tlrnL" 
While Im would prP.fnr not tn, Nicklaus, who currnntly uses a c.ann to lrnlp support his WP.ight, admiltPcl lw'll i'.1msidP.r 1:iding a earl for part of the Senior TOI IJ'lliUllP.llt. 
"I would ratlwr do it and do it the way I'm J)hysically supposed to do it," Nicklaus said. "But if I can only walk hall' a round and it would allow me to get started, tlrnn that would probably Im appropriate. But I would prefer not lo do it." 
,\!though he isn't rnady to walk the courses, Nicklaus has made great strides since the Jan. 27 operation. lie can now tie his own shoos, brmd his knee above a 90 dcgrr,e anglu, and most importantly, he danced at son Michael's w1~dding Feb. 20. 
"I did thP. four-legged two­step," Im said. 
Over the nnxt several wenks, Bierbaum said Nicklaus will work on antigravity exercises, like leg lifls, as well as f'ollow a swimming regimen. 
¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Johnson starts training for D-Backs 
Associated f'rcss 
TUCSON 
Revenge is sweet, Randy 
Johnson joked, even aner 14 . years. 
The last time Johnson 
faced the University of 
Aria:ona, he walked six and 
was shelled for six runs on 
13 hits in a 7-3 loss. 
That was 1985. Ho was no Big Unit then, just an ·extremely ta! I, extremely 
wild junk>r at USC. 
Johnson took the mound 
against the Wildcats again 
on Wednesday, making his 
Arizona Diamondback dobut 
by methodically striking out 
four of the six batters he 
raced in two perfect innings. 
''I'm getting back at U of A 
after all those beatings I 
used to take at USC." 
.Johnson said. 
Two of the college players. 
19-year-old Keoni DeRenne 
and 21-year-old Dtmnis 
Anderson, managed to 
bounce out to shortstop, the 
biggest groundouts of their 
lives. 
"He was almost like the 
Eiffel Tower because 1'm 
only 5-foot-7," DcRonnc said. 
"He's immense. It was just 
awesome, man. Hopefully 
they got it on videotape 
because I'd like to show it to 
my kids someday." · 
Johnson. who warned last 
week not to expect anything 
overwhelming from him in 
spring training, threw 31 
pitches. Five were called 
strikes, seven were swinging 
strikes, six were fouls, 11 
were balls and two were hit 
in play. 
He threw a couple of 
breaking balls and change­
ups, but mostly four-seam 
Catalina Mou·ntains provided 
a scenic backdrop to what 
amounted to a historic 
moment for the second-ye(ir 
franchise. 
The Diamondback purple 
was the fourth major-league 
uniform Johnson has worn. 
He started his career with 
Montreal and spent 9 1/2 
seasons as a Seattle Mariner. 
For a half-season last year, 
he was a Houston Astro, Now 
he's the marquee addition to 
a high-priced rotation that 
coui'd vault Arizona into 
National League contention. 
"It was exciting," Johnson 
said, ''not nearly Bxciting as 
the first start I mako in L.A. 
[the April 5 season opener 
against Kevin Brown in 
Dodger Stadium] or probably 
even more so wlrnn I make my first start at Bank On(i. But it's going to be an excit­ing four years for this orga­nization and for myself'." 
The crowd obviously 
favored the college kids. 
"You've bent him bef'oril, 
you can beat him again," one 
fan yelled. 
As they looked up at the 6­
foot-1 0 left-hander, probably 
the most intimidating pitcher 
in the game, the college 
players showod no obvious 
fear but were plenty anxious. 
helping Johnson out by 
swinging at a f'ew high hard 
ones out of the strike zone. 
Johnson didn't want to hit 
anybody. 
"I get worried il' it's a guy 
up there making millions of dollars, let alone a young kid trying to got a colleg(l educa­tion," he said. "He might bn · president of the United States someday. You never 
know." 
The Diamondbacks eventu­
• 
and two-seam fastballs. 
'Tm a little disappointed the breaking ball wasn't there but I'm always that way in spring training." Johnson said. "I just went out there to work on my mechanics and my arm strength." 
Johnson. who signed a four-year, $52.4 million con­tract with the Diamond­backs, strolled to the mound at Tucson Electric Park under bright sunshine in 80­degree weather. In the dis• tance beyond left field, the ally won the gnme 10-2, an outcome that will be quickly lost to the big-leaguers in the 162-game season to come. 
But the six college players 
who  went  to  the  plate  
against Johnson  will  never  
forget it.  

"Just to have the opportu­nity to face Handy Johnson, it's like a droarn come true, it's like a childhood dream." said Erik Torres. who struck out on three pitches. "Yeah, three pitchtis,. but those three pitches meant a lot to n1e." 

Bringing It All Together 
Come Join the Student Body Government '99-'00 
Applications are now available in the.Student Government office for 1999-2000 Office of the President Tea1n positions 
Applications are due Wednesday, March 17, 1999 by 5:00 p.m. in the Student Government office (203 Lafortune). 
A list of positions available is included with the application packet. 
Interviews will be Thursday, March 18, 1999 and Saturday,March 20, 1999. Please sign up for an interview when one picks up an application. 
Have something to say? 

-
Use Observer Classifieds. 


-
.Currently Available ;2 Bedroom Apartments -Ready to Rent March 1st 

.... 
Positions will be announced on Sunday, March 21, 1999 
1801 Irish Way (219) 272-1441 
.... ·-·--· ...... ,..·-· ........................................ ,.,__ ...................... _,,....._..,. -. ­
~ 

page 20 The Observer• SPORTS Thursday, March 4, 1999 
¦ NCAA BASKETBALL 
... 
Syracuse routs Eagles in Big East tourney 
A,sociateJ Pres< 
Syracuse coach Jim Roeht)im knows what it means to get 
., blown out in the Rig East tour­nament. So when Syracuse wore down Boston College in WednPsday's first-round game. Bocheim turned the Eagles over to his reserves. It couldn't prevent a record• setting 96-55 rout for the OrangPmcn (20-11 l that was the biggest margin of victory in the conference tournament's 20­year history. The previous largest margin was 33, which Seton Hall had in the 199:-l championship gamP against Syracuse and Boeheim. Reminded of that rout, Boeheim said, "You guys find a way to ruin everything. I had forgotten until just now. Thank you. very much." This one was settled early with Syracuse scoring the game's first 12 points and jump­ing out to a 20-3 lead. Etan Thomas had nine of his game­high 19 points in that spurl Jason llart finished with 15 as Syrac.usc opened a 4 7 -18 half• time lead and toyed with BC (6­
21) the rest of thP way. 
"Everything went our way in the first half." Boehcim said. "We got every bounce, every loose ball. That doesn't happen very often in this league. 
"The game just got out of hand early. You don't like to beat anybody that way. I don't like to be on either end of it." 
Boeheim rested his regulars through most of the second half but BC couldn't make a dent in Syracuse's lead. "We're just big­ger and stronger than them," Boeheim said. 
BC, which finished its season with seven straight losses, was led by Willie Deane, who scored 14. 
Next for Syracuse in Thursdav's auarterfinals is 
Villanova. 
Villanova 73, West Virginia 6 t 
Villanova coach Steve Lappas had no problem describing his tpam's 73-61 victory over West Virginia on Wednesday in the opening round of the Big East tournament. He wasn't as ver­bose about the hero. John Celestand. 
"That was the ultimate hang­in-there, play-hard, du-the­things-you-believe-in and some­thing-good-will·happen game," Lappas said after the Wildcats rallied from an 11-point second­half deficit. 
Celestand scored half of his career-high 26 points in a 7: 19 span as Villanova was rallying. 
"I don't know what more I .can say about John," Lappas said of the senior guard. "John was stu­pendous in the second half. It doesn't surprise me." 
Cclcstand started his scoring burst with a driving basket that brought Villanova within 43-39 with 13:11 to play. His three­pointer from behind the NBA line capped an 8-3 run and gave the Wildcats a 53-52 lead, their first since 6-4. 
"I was trying tn get to the rim to distribute the ball but I was getting to the basket and they weren't helping well," said Celestand. a third-team all· league selection who had 25 and 23 points in the Wildcats' two Big East tournament games last year. "In the transition game I started to pick it up, found more holes and it started dropping." 
West Virginia (10-19) held its 
last lead at 57-55 on a layup by 
Elton Scott with 4:19 left. 
Howard Brown's rebound bas­
game for the last time and 
Celestand's layup with 3:14 
rnmainirn, !!ave t.hP. Wildcats the 

-
.... 
lead for good at 59-57. Those two baskets started Villanova's closing 18-4 run. 
Brown had 16 points for Villanova, while Jermaine Medley added 14 -10 in the second half. 
Elton Scott had 26 points and 11 rebounds for the Mountaineers, who finished the season losing eight of their last nine games, while Marcus Goree had 16 points and 10 rebounds. 
West Virginia led 24-10 after a 12-0 run in which Si.;ott had seven point,;. The Mountaine1m;' lead was 29·24 at halftime but a 10-4 run to open the second half had the lead to 39-28 with 15: 55 to play. 
Starting point guard Jarrett Kearse picked up his fourth foul with 15 minutes remaining and he fouled out with 7::n left. 
"When our point guard went out with five personal fouls we wern like a ship without a rud­der." Mountaineers coach Gale Catlett said. "Villanova did a nice job of capitalizing on that." 
The win gave Villanova a three-game sweep of the Mountaineers this season with this the biggest margin. 
"Those were difficult games and in the second one down there we were down 10 with 13 minutes to go," Lappas said. 
"This game was no surprise to 
any of us." 
Massachusetts 80, Duquesne 70 
five three-pointers in the second Mack responded with a three• 
Monty Mack scored 27 points half. and the inside play of Lari pointer on the Minutemen's next 
and hit six three-point attempts Ketner, who scored 18 points possession for UMass. and 
as Massachusetts pulled away and grabbed 11 rebounds. Duquesne lost its offensive 
from upset-minded Duquesne to UMass advances to play leader with 1:31 remaining 
an 80-70 win Wednesday and Xavier Thursday. · when Wallace fou!P.d out of the 
advanced to the quarterfinals of Courtney Wallace scored a game. 
the Atlantic 10 Conference tour­career-high 26 points and Mack finished the game with 
nament. pulled down seven rebounds for 10-of-16 shooting from the field. 
After struggling with the Duquesne (5-23), including two Duquesne came into the aftP-r­
younger Dukes' quickness for straight layups that helped the noon 1-19 in its last 20 games, 
much of the game, UMass (14· Dukes close to 55-53 with seven with its last six losses coming by 
15) pulled away behind Mack's minutes left in the game. an average of 14 points. 

ARE YOU TIRED OF LIVING LIKE THIS? 


Everything about school doesn't need to remind you of being crammed together like sardines. s TR ETCH OU T 
Wil}jainsburg 

o~­
Our Floorplans are spacious, with the privacy and solitude that dorm life can't offer. Only minutes from campus, you'll feel light years away when you leave the stress of exams and studying behind. 
Call today about our Priority Waiting List Program to reserve your apartment for fall. Don't wait and be left out in the cold! 
Williamsburg
-~-G) 
EDUAL HOUSING
~ 256-0237 
OPPORTUNITY 




""«'"" ...... 
l 
i
Thursday, March 4, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 21 
¦ COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Kent beats Miami for tourney bid 
Assodated Pres< 
TOLEDO, Ohio .John Whorton srorPd 18 pninls 1L"i Kent Parn iL'i nrst trip 
t.o th1\ NCAA t<)urnanrnnt with a 49-43 victory ovnr Miami of Ohio in tlrn Mid-Arnr.rican ('.onforp111·1· championship gam~ Wcdnnsrlay night. 
Tll(i Goldnn l•laslws (23-61 had rnud,• it to tlw to11rrrnm1mt linal thrnP prnvious ti11H\S, hut lost tlwm all hy a total ol' live points. In 47 yci,u·s as a nrnm­lmr ol' tlin MAC. limy Imel nevor lwfort• won a division, confor­Pncc or tournamnnl title•. 
Wl10rt1rn madP two baskets 
during a lah· I 0-2 run hy Knnt, 
and finiiilwd 7-of-11 l'rom the 
lidd and 4-ol'-5 frnm tlw foul 
linP. l•:c! Norv!lll added s1•vnn 
points and f'nur assists, ancl 
Kyr1•111 M11.-;sny scornd ninn 
points for tlw Coldnn Flashns. 
1>dirns1i was t!w kHy l'or Knnt. 
which limiL,~d Miami to :n p,ir­
cr11L shooting l'rom tlw field. 
MAC: playc~r of' thR yi~ar Wally Szcmrhiak, slowed by a slightly sprairwd knl'I', had l 7 points and 10 n\lmunds for Miami but was just 4-ol'-l7 f'rom lhP lield. 
;\l'lPr playing lo a 17-17 lie at halflinw. tlrn teams traded dcf'P11sivc stops for tlw first 10 mi11ut1!s of tlrn sel'.OtHI half. Johll I:stid; scorPd all 10 or Miami's points until Szczerhiak hit a :i-pointer and a baseline fallaway on ronsncutivl' trips down thn floor. 
Szn•.Prhiak hit just 0111• of his 
¦ WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Cyclones sweep past Tigers 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. 
Stacy 1:resn scorl'd 17 of her 
I'J points in tlw SPCotHI half as 
No. 21 Iowa Slat1i beat Missouri 
(1]-44 W1\d1wsdny night in the 
quarl1fffinals of tho Big 12 
woml'n 's tournanwnt. 
Trailing 27-2(, at half'Limc, 
Iowa Stall' 121-hl broke the 
ga111P 01wn with a 17-4 run lo 
opl'n tlll' sl't·ond hair. 
;\my Mons1•1!s sconHI I;i of 
lwr I 7 points in tlw snc:ond half 
for Missouri ( I :~-15). Monsees 
and K1•Psha Bonds wc!rn tlw 
only Ti!{1\rs to sn1rn from tlrn 
l'iPld in lh1• st\cond hall'. 
Mo11s1i<~s was (1-of'-lO l'rom thn 
liPld in tlw snc·o1Hl half'. whill! 
Bonds was I-of'-7. 
TIH· Cyclot11\S, who mad,• 16 
ol' I 7 l'n;t~ throws in tlw sncond 
half. got 12 points from l>Psirnn 
Franris and IO points l'rom 
MPgan Taylor. Fn•sn made all 
I:I of' linr l'rl~c throws for Iowa Stat.n. 
llol.v Cross 72, Navy 58 
Amy ()'Brinn sccll'<!d 2!i points Lo !Pad llolv Cross ovnr Navy 72-58 V\fpcfn;,sday in tlw l'atri<;t l.,iagun rhampionship game. 
Anna Kinn!' add,•d I:i points !'or !Inly Cross (21-71. which won its 10th straight and f'lll'llf'd a bid to th!! NCAA. To11rnam1•11t. It was tlw l'ourlh linll' in fivP ynars Holy Cross won thP Patriot I.Pagw• rhampi­onsliip and Liu, t1•arn's second straight 1:lrnmpi1111ship win over Navy. 
Navy ( 17-11 l was !ml by Erica llayt•s with 18 points and .J,,nnil'Pr ll11111lii11!-iki with !(,. 
With llw s1·11r,. tind 12-12, tlw lirst nin!\ shots from the field. 
Wilh Lhc score tied at 32, Whorton hit a turnaround jumpnr, Norvell made a driving layup a11d Eric Thomas hit a pair of foul shots for Kent. 
After Szczerbiak count()red with two free throws, Massey made a jumper from the foul line and Whorton spun away from a de!'rmdcr al the right baseline for a layup. 
That made it 42-34 -tlrn first time either lNtm had led by morn than six points. 
Kent, one of the worst f'oul­shootin!{ teams in tlw r.onfer­ence. lhr.n scored lheir final seven points on !'me throws, including fivn in tho final 49 snr.onds. 
The teams had split their first two meetings. 
Picked in the prnseason by Ow m,~dia to finish sixth in the MAC, Kent ended up second in the regular snason. The Golden Flashes lost a chancn to tie for Lim Ea!-it Division crown and gain the No. 1 seed in the tour­nament whnn they fell to Miami B-60 on the last-day of the rngular season. 
Miami (22-7). which lost in the final for the second year in a row, now must wait to see if it gets an at-large bid to the NCM tournament. 
The Hndllawks have played in the NC/\/\ tournament 15 times. 
Miami had been f'orced into overtime lo beat Bowling Grcnn 60-:>6 in Tuesday's semifinals. 
Crusaders went on a 15-4 surge 
ovr,r 8:08. including lhren 3­
pointers from Kinne. to take a 
27-16 lead. Thn Crusaders 
rwv11r trailed after tlml and led 
34-23 at the half. 
l!aycs and Bombinski rallied 
Navy in tho second half, cutting 
Urn lead to 43-39 with 12:44 
remaining. But O'Brien, the 
leagun's ltiading scorer with a 
22.4 average, made a three­point play lo put lloly Cross up 46-39 and tho Crnsaders hr.Id on. 
Laurin Coffey, I\Javy's top scorer and rpbounder. fell into early foul trouble and sat out the final 12 minutes or tho first hall'. 
No. 25 Kansas 59, Oklahoma St. 53 
.laclvn Johnson scored 15 
points 'and Brookn Bnvcs added 
14 Wedrrnsday night as No. 25 
Kansas hold off Oklahoma Stale 
!'i<J-53 in the quarterfinals of the 
Big 12 women's tournament. 
Oklahoma State ( U-15) led 24-20 al thn half and was up 49-48 with 5:.B left. but then didn't score for the next 5:02 as Lh,i Jayhawks took a 55-49 himl. 
The Cowgirls W!lnt O-for-4 from the l'icld and turned the ball over live times in lhn linal 5 1/2 minutt•s. finishing tho game with 1CJ turnovers. They shot 38 pornrnt from lho t1elrl for tht> night. marking tlrn 21sl time this ynar that Kansas has held an opponent. undnr 40 pNc1•nt. 
Lynn !'ride add<!d 12 points for Kansas t22-8l. which shot jusl :B pnrcl'nt frnrn tlw finlcl in tlw f'irst half but 52 percnnt aHPr tlw hrPak N11kia Sanford 
¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Wolverine QB plays for Yankees 
A,soci·ated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. 
Like a lot offollege kids, Drow Henson is in Florida. for spring break. Only he's not sunning on the beach, 
Michigan's backup qttarter~ back is working out with other New York Yankees rookies, 
No, this isn't ;i. glorified fan­tasy camp. Henson justha.p­pens to excel at two sports. 
''I like compotition," H(lnson said Wednesday after a work• out in the hatting cages beneath Legonds Field. 
"To me, there is nothing quite like the competition betweon a pitcher and a bat• ter. It's one on one. 
"And I like hittinghome runs. There's no other feeling in all of sports like the home rlln." 
Henson signed a five-year deal worth $2 million with the Yankees in July after they made him a third~ruund draft pick. He hit ,316 in 10 games during a two-week span.with the Yankees' rookie tea.m in the Gulf Coast League. 
Henson is 6-foot-5 and 225 pounds and plays third base, He's 19 years old and aJmost nothing intimidates him. 
Not even 1unch with Yankees owner George Steinbrenner. 
That was no more stressful than grabbing a pizza with the guys back in Ann Arl)or. 
"He's an old football guy," Henson said. 
"When 1 was down here one other time, my dad and I 
had  11  rebounds  for  the  
Jayhawks.  
.Jennifer  Crow  led  the  

Cowgirls with 18 points and Megan Gregg added 10. 
Alcorn St. 114, Prairie View 61 
Terrance Cameron scored six points as Alcorn State jumped out lo a 12-1 load and went on to beat Prairie View 114-61 in a Southwestern Athletic Conference tournament game Wednesday night. 
The Braves ( 21-6), the regu­lar season SW/\C champion for the first time since 1986, never trailed after its opening four­minute surge. 
Prairie View (6-21) got to within six points midway through the first half. but another Cameron jumper, with 
7:50 left, made it 29-18 and put the Braves ahead by double fig­ures for the rest of the game. 
Thf' final 53-point margin was the largest. 
t\lcorn advanced t() the SWAC tournament semifinals against Mississippi Valley State on Friday night in Baton Houge, La. 
Marcus Fleming had 21 points, all of them coming in the second half when the Braves outscored Prairie View 65-26, to lead five i\lcorn players in double figures. 
Cameron finished with 16 points and 11 rebounds while Walter llarpHr had 12 points and IO rnbounds for th!' Braves. Brian !\dams added 11 points and Wallace llarris 10. 
c;rPgory Burks was the only player in double figurns for PrairiP Vim,v with 28 points. 
Went to lunch with him. He talked about football. I asked him a.bout his roJe on the '.S~ill(eld' show, . . , 
'The thing I like about George Steinbrenner is that he wants to win.'' ·• Hens.on will almost certain~ Jy make his living playing baseball. But he loves foot­hall, too. After watching thf)Wolverines win a share of tho nation'al championship in 1997, he became fixed on 
. le11ding th.e school to another title. •· 
As a freshman, he backed up Tom Brady while the Wolverines went 10-3, win­
· .tjfog a share of the Big Ten championship and defeating Arkansas in the Citrus Bowl. For the sea.son, Henson 
· passed for 254 yards and three touchdowns. 
s·ince D· rady I1as a year ol' eligibility left, Henson must 'Yin the Job when spring drills open next month. 
"I've never· been afraid to compote.'' Honson said. 
Meanwhile. the Yankees appear content io wait. Scott Brosius recently signed a three-year contract. 
· Brosius plays third base. Just about the time his con­tract runs out, Henson will be finished with college. 
"We won't pressure him," Yankees general manager Brian Cashman said. "He'll end up doing what he wants to do. He'll make his decision at the end of his collegiate career." 
Mark Newman, the Yankees' vice president of 
Do you have an 
LYB f•r 
Jl)Lsiq-n? 
The Observer is looking for 
.. 
·-. . 
~ 
Ai! 
Call 1-4543 if you're interested in designing sports pages and 1-6900 for ad design. 
player developmcrnt and scouting, said Henson could be in the m_ajor leagues in less than three ye,trs ­maybe even sooner -if ho devoted himself just to base­ball. 
Still, ho has no regrets about agreeing to let Henson pursue his football dream. 
''He convinced us that while he loves football, he's pas­sionate about baseball," Newman said. "He's an exceptional talent." 
On Wednesday, roving hit• ting instructor Gary Denbo called out situations and Benson was expected to react with his bat. Denbo told him to hit an off-speed pitch to right-center field. Henson did. 
"I think he has an the quali­
ties we look for in a good young hitter," Denbo suid. "Hjs evo-hand coordination is outstanding. He doesn't mis­hit balls. He also has good bat speed. He has the poten­tial for a lot of power." 
Once school is out, Henson will return to Tampa for a few days of extended spring training, then report to the Class A team at Greensboro, 
N.C.• of the South Atlantic League. 
He will play baseball until two weeks before Michigan opens camp in August, then head back home. 
Clearly, a lot is being expected of Henson, both by Michigan and by the Yankees. That kind of pressure might wilt some players. Not Henson. 
-. 
-

Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA 
Michael Jordan had some incredible games with the flu. Against the new Chicago Bulls, Allen Iverson didn't have to raise his game to Air-like lev­els. 
Iverson, the league's leading scorer, scored 24 points despite battling the flu as the Philadelphia 7 Gers toyed with the Bulls in a 102-86 victory Wednesday night. 
The Sixers have a six-game winning streak for the first time since 1991. also the last time they started 10-5. They clinched a victory in the sea­son series with the Bulls for the first time since the '90-91 season. 
Philadelphia, which has one more meeting with the Bulls this season, hasn't swept them since Michael .Jordan's rookie season in 1984-85. 
But enough about the Bulls. For a change, the Sixers are much better -and much more interesting. 
Matt Geiger had 21 points, a season-high 13 rebounds and a career-high five steals. Point guard Eric Snow had 10 points and eight assists. 
Dickey Simpkins led the Bulls with 21 points and eight rebounds, showing some of the frustration that has besieged the defending cham­pions when he mugged for the camera after a dunk late in the game. 
Despite feeling under the weather, Iverson was the focal point on nearly every posses­sion while the game was still reasonably close. 
He was 10-for-21 from the field and added six assists and three steals. 
Iverson, now averaging 28.8 points, had only 16 points at the end of the third as the Sixers led 76-55. 
Returning after a break with 7 1/2 minutes left, lverson immediatelv tended to his endangered scoring average. 
After scoring on a fastbreak layup, Iverson caught a pass from Snow and darted straight to the basket. 
He took a quick hop-step, dipped underneath the hoop and flipped the ball in high off the glass. 
With two free throws and a 12-foot jumper, Iverson com­pleted his night and left to a standing ovation. 
Aaron McKie's layup with 
6:24 left capped an 8-0 run and gave Philadelphia its biggest lead. 
Chicago's Tony Kukoc, who had 16 points, sat out the last four minutes of the third quar­ter and the early part of the
-fourth -only to return when the game was completely out of hand. 
Pacers 106. Wizards 95 
A classic length-of-court play at the third-quarter buzzer started a 20-6 run, helping the Indiana Pacers win for the seventh time in eight games Wednesday, 106­95 over the Washington Wizards. 
Jalen Rose scored 11 of his 22 points in the final quarter, including a steal and layup on an inbounds pass with 1:12 to go that put the Pacers up 99­93. 
But the textbook play that gave the Pacers some momen­tum came with 1.4 seconds to go in the third. 
Sam Perkins threw to Antonio Davis at the Wizards' foul line. 
Davis made a nice touch pass to Travis Best, who hit a three-pointer to get Indiana within 83-79. 
The Wizards then collapsed in the fourth period as they lost for the fifth time in six games. 
Washington made just six of 22 shots in the period, with Mitch Richmond going O-for-4, Juwan Howard 1-for-3 and Rod Strickland 1-for-3. 
Strickland was ejected in the game's final minute for argu­ing with referee Bob Delaney. The Wizards have lost five straight at home. 
Reggie Miller scored 20 points, including a three­pointer that gave Indiana the lead for good with 4:48 to play. Mark Jackson had 17 assists for the Pacers, who had six players in double fig­ures and shot 53 percent. 
Howard and Rik Smits had 
the hot hands early. 
Howard hit his first five 
shots and Smits made four of 
his first six before picking up 
two quick fouls and sitting out 
most of the first half. 
Then nearly everyone joined in a hot-shooting fray. Jackson had 12 assists at halftime as the Pacers shot 60 percent. Strickland dished seven for a Wizards team shooting 58 per­cent. 
Miller was 4-for-4 and Rose 
5-for-7 for Indiana; Howard 
was 7-for-12, Strickland 5-for­
7 and Tracy Murray -who 
became the franchise's all­
time leader in three-pointers 
-was 3-for-4. The Pacers led 
by as much as eight and were 
up 60-56 at the break. 
Magic 93. Hornets 76 
Nick Anderson scored 25 
points and Orlando used a 20­
6 run early in the third quar­
ter to pull away from 
night. 
Anderson was 8-from-13 
from the field, including 6-for­


-
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, March 4, 1999 
¦ NBA 
Iverson leads 76ers in trouncing of Bulls 
10 on three-point attempts. 
Isaac Austin added a sea­son-high 20 points and eight rebounds and Darrell Armstrong provided a spark off the bench with 10 points and eight assists. 
The Magic (12-4) controlled the first two quarters until Charlotte finished with a 6-1 run to make it 49-43 at the half. 
Orlando appeared to have Charlotte put away by going on the 20-6 run to open the second half. 
But Derrick Coleman scored 12 third-quarter points to put Charlotte within 71-62. It was the closest Charlotte (3-10) would get. 
Coleman finished with 24 points and 10 rebounds. 
The Hornets trailed 75-64 with 10:44 remaining when Orlando went on a 14-3 run to ensure remaining undefeated at home this year (9-0). 
Bobby Phills was the only other Hornet in double fig­ures, scoring 14. 
Charlotte didn't help itself with 21 turnovers and 24 fouls. 
Thi!: ig thf! Ttug ~toty of 1200 College S!tudent~ Picked to 1-lang Out in a Nightclub••• 
CJ'/~ Cover 
$ with college 1.0. _.., must be 21 
2 2 2 S. Michigan South Bend • (219) 234-5200 Call 1he Heartland Concert & Event Line (219) 251-2568 
www.ACEplaces.com/heartland 



Women's Tennis 
vs. 
Wake forest 
Saturday, 
Steakhouse has the hottest grill in town, 
serving up a NEW MENU of juicy USDA 
prime filet mignons, t-bones, and ribeyes 
(as well chicken, burgers and salads, too). 
See why steaks are our consuming passion. 

222 S. MICHIGAN• SOUTH BEND (219) 234-5200 
Men's Lacrosse vs. DENVER 
Friday, March 6 at 7:00pm 
March 6th 

vs. AIR FORCE 
at 3:00 pm Sunday, March 7 at 7:00pm
Eck Pavilion 


cw 
---------------------------~--~­

Thursday, March 4, I 999 The Observer• SPORTS page 23 
¦ HORSE RACING 
Kentucky horse breeder faces indictment 
As•ociatcd Press 
ll()lJSTON 
John Lundy, n former presi­dent of' Kontucky's famod Calumet Farms, has been arn\st(•d affor his indictmPnt on charges of' bribing a bank lo sncw·«! loans for his then-failing thoroughbrnd stablf1. 
The six-count indictment, rnturrrnd Doc. 11 by a Houston federal grand jury and unsealed Wednesday, names Lundy and his former lawyer, Gary Matthews. 
They were charged with one count each of conspiracy to defraud a financial institution, scheme Lo defraud, bank bribery and three counts of falsB statements to bank offi­cials, a federal prosflcutor said. 
Tho charges stem from an 
investigation into loan activity involving now-defunct First City Bancorporation of Houston. Federal prosecutors have been investigating how and why First City went bankrupt in 1988 and again in 1992. 
In 19%, former First City Bancorp vice chairman Frank Cihak and four associates were convicted on fraud and money laundering charges stemming from a multimillion-dollar kick­back scheme arising from loans that led to the bank's 1992 fail­ure. Cihak is serving two feder­al prison sentences. 
Lundy is accused of offering at least $1 million to First City loan officials in exchange for approval or a $50 million loan, assistant U.S. atlornev Julia Hyman told The Assci'ciatcd Press late Wednesday. 
"The investigation is continu­ing," she said, declining to com­ment further. 
Customs officials arrested Lundy on Tuesday night in Miami as he was arriving from Venezuela. Matthews, once Calumet's chief financ:ial offi­cer, was arrestnd Wednesday in Lr.xington, Ky. lie was released on a $10,000 bond and directed to report to court in Houston. 

s. 
o! 

As low as 
21< per minute. 
Now you can get lower prepay rates than ever before. 
Because with Omnipoint's Prepay, the larger the coupon amount. the more you save: $25 = 85 minutes, $50 = J75 minutes. $JOO= 400 minutes and $200 = 950 minutes. With the $200 coupon. you'll pay only 21 ¢ a minute. 
You can use your minutes to call anywhere in the U.S.. Canada, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. 
You'll get a brand new Ericsson1638 digital phone for just $49. Plus free features like voice mail, caller ID and call waiting. 
All you need is a $50 coupon to start. Activate by May 1st to get these rates. which are good through December 3Ist_ 
As always, there are no monthly fees, no credit checks, no long distance charges and no contracts to sign. Nothing at all to come between you and your Omnipoint digital phone. 
1 800 BUY-OMNI FOR FREE DELIVERY 

SOUTH BIND .AUYNOIIZID
AUTHORIZED 
IITAILI I St

RITAILIRS1 
A.dive tor s,.NIO Glau Mo,.., 

~-~->~ OMNIPOINT®

(2191272-1432 /2191271•1512 
..-·-·· 

Auto One of Sherman'• 9.-outy 
Mishawaka Supply 
100% Digital. 0% Hassle.® 

12191256-245! 121912s2-0J34 
www.omnipoint.com

Dl1c Go Round 
121912779222 
I 19'99 Of#,jiPQINT OOMMUN!CAT'IONS SElW:ES, 11.C ,.,_l .IGHTS R£SE1',-T[), OMJr,IIPOIN! AND I®'. OIOO'At. 0% HASSIE ARE REGISl~EO t~ADt~U::S Of OMNIPOINT C0Ri'Ot.\110N 
.... 
-

page 24 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, March 4, I 999 
Mix-n-
Change your style. Try anew look. No need to wear 
the same thing twice. Citrus gives you poolside 
options in your choice of 6fun-to-wear styles. 
I 
\ 
l 
I 
ffe 
~-"•ol!11%t
\ L,·
I 
'w,~ 
TRIANGLE 
TOP, 
$34 
,,~·-..,.. _.
» . ) 
. . l 
TOP,
.. "'Jilj;',,../ 
$46 
HIGH-WAIST 
BOTTOM, 
$28 
BOY-LEG 
BOTTOM, 
$40 
l..;~·-·' 
• 
SPORT BRA TOP, 
$36 


-
THIS IS WHERE IT GETS GOOD 

Thursday, March 4, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 25 
¦ WOMEN'S TENNIS 
No. 16 Notre Dame slips by Northwestern 
5-4 win and shocking the Wildcats. who foll to 6-4 on thn year. 
In singlos play, lOt.h-rnnked Notre Damn sophomorn Michnlln Dasso and 40th­rnnknd Becky Varnum gavn tlw Irish straight set wins. Dasso bnat Kathnrine l\iassnr (,-2. 6-2 at No. I singles, whiln Varnum won <1-0, 7-.'i over Colleen Cheng at No. 4 sin­gles. 
Senior All-Anwrica Jennifer llall rallied for a 2-(,, 7 -6, 6-4 crowd-pleasing win ovnr Shannon Duffy at No. 2 sin­gles to improve to I 0-·1 in 19')9 dual matches. Sophomore Kim Guy, in her first dual match of' the y1iar, hold on for a f,-4, 2-6, 6-3 win over Jennif"er Lutgort at No. 6 singlos. 
Northwestnrn's Laura Guignon rallifid to beat Marisa Vr.lasco 2-(,, h-4, r,-4 at No. :l singles, ancl Lia .Jackson downed Zalinski (,-2, (1-2 at No. 5 singles for tlrn Wildcats' two singlns wins. 
Coming off lwo gutsy wins against top 10 inams, Dasso and Ilall lost 8-6 to Nassnr and Guignon at No. I doubles. Varnum and V1\lasco foll 8-(1 lo Cheng and .Jackson at No. 2 doublns. With tlrn match lied at 4-4, Green and Zalinski beat Duffy and l.1dgh Wninraub 8-5 at No. 3 dou­hl1~s lo hold on for tlw win. 
Notre Damn's win over Northwestern 11xtendod lo 14 matches its winning streak against Midwest-rngion oppo­ncmts, a stroal that dates back to a 1997 NCAA Midw1ist Regional loss to Wisconsin. The Irish have built a 3.'i-4 record against regional teams since 1995, and have won 28 against Big Tnn teams. 
Notre Dame will host No. 9 Demon Deacons of Wake Forest this Saturday and light to increase its win-loss record to eight and four. 
Got sports? Fill us 
•
1n. 1--4543 
BOOK SEARCH 
• 
Used, rare and out-of-print books 

• 
Initial cost of $2.00 


I 
• 
Nationany -circulated ad 
• 
Success rate of 50% 

• 
Time Required: 2 months 


ERASMUS BOOKS 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, lN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 
-· 
... 
.... 
-


By WES JACOBS 
Spom Writer 
Tho Nu. 16 Notro Dam11 
women's tennis tr.am scraped by with a narrow win ov1~r Midwest counterpart Northwnstcrn, tivn matchns to four. 
Putting Notni Damn over tlrn top, first-lime cloublcs part­ners freshman Lindsey Grn()n and junior Kelly Zalinski helped the Irish move to seven wins and four losses for the yea.r with lheir No. 3 doubles win. 
The Irish also won four of six singles matches. With loses at No. I and 2 doubles, the team entered the day's final match tied at four. Green and Zalinski came to the res­cue, giving the Irish a thrilling 
Get on-line with Notre Dame Federal Credit Union's FREE Home Banking Service. Internet Banking On-Line. As a Member, you .can ­enjoy secure access to your accounts day or night. Check ba1ances, pay bills, transfer money. All froin the privacy and convenience of your Home or Office. 
• 
FREE Secure Access to your accounts 

• 
FREE Stock Quotes 

• 
Compatible with Quicken or Microsoft Money 

• 
Financial Wizard™ Calculators 

• 
Plus low-cost Electronic Bill Payment Service 



<~et ,n-line today with Notre Dame Federal Credit Union's FREE HomeBanking 
Find ou1 how : 111 qu11l1 , •or M~moersh1p c-mml. r dfcu(aJr, rrn.org 219 239-M 11 • HO .' 22-661 I 
@ 
www.ndfcu.org 
Independent of lhc University 

page 26 The Observer• SPORTS Thursday, March 4, 1999
I
I 
.... 
Irish 
continued from page 28 
problems.'' 
Phil llickoy scornd 14 points. buL no otlrnr player scored more than seven. Duarrn .Jordan and Bimas Kaukenas scored 15 apiece for tho Pirates. Freshman point guard Ty Shine added 17 and six assists, while the l'iratcs got a big lift off the bench form Chuck Moorn. 
Moore drainml back-to-back threPs to givP his tciam a 61-52 team wilh 8:16 left in lhe game. He finislrnd with 11 points on the day. 
"He's made big shots all year." Amaker said. "I thought ·he was the key player of this 
game." 
Seton I lall also got 25 points off Notre Dame turnovers and made 24-of'-34 free throws. 
"I thought our perimeter defense was very good," Amatier said. "W,~ got some easy baskets which enabled us to get a nke lead at different points in the game." 

"You have to give Seton Ilall credit," MacLcod said. "They've gotten bettor and better since we last played them." with tlw first f'rnshman i11 Big 
Senior guard Antoni Wyche East history to claim the
Insight
closed his career going two-for­rebounding crown. nine from the field for seven Success deponds on the
continued from page28

points. Fellow senior Paul player who (iarned Big East Rainey scored three points and Rookie of the Week honors
still trying at the end to score 
Dennis Carroll played but did eight times this season.
points and help us out." 
not take a shot. It all rides on the freshman
Murphy's 28 points could 
"It's tough," Murphy said, who finished the season aver­
not help Notre Dame to a win. The Observer/Jett Hsu "because we have seniors that aging 18.9 points per game, 



The Irish still are without a 

Troy Murphy earned the title of Big East Rookie of the Year Tuesday. really worked hard and were ranking him fourth in the con­
win at the Big East tourna­

Murphy finished the season with a strong outing against Seton Hall. big contributors all year." ference.
ment and finish the season The question of the futurewith a record of 14 wins and rests with Troy Murphy, and
16 losses. 
whether Macleod can find
Despite the dismal ending, 
him a supporting cast to
Notre Dame fans have the

Please recycle The Observer. 
restore Notre Dame basket­
future. 
ball to a place among the
The program's future rests 
elite. 


The Alumni Association is hiring people who would like to work from June 2 ,1999 thru June 5, 1999
-
for Reunion '99 You'll have lots of fun while you earn extra spending money!!! Please Apply at Student Employment at 336 Grace Hall or the Alumni Association at 100 Eck Center 



Thursday, March 4, 1999 The Observer· TODAY page 27 SLURRED SPEECH DAN SULLIVAN HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LIST 


FOXTROT 
PETER, I CAN'T HELP 
WoRR'1'1NG THAT You RE GETT!..(:, 8£H1Nl) IN !'LL '!'OUR HOMEWORI<. GET IT 
DILBERT 
WHEN ?.1 !OST Look AT THESE 1'1LES of Booll:S Yoo HAVE <l< lb READ.' juST Look "-T ii 
THIS MOUNTAIN of MATH f 
I'D LIKE TO 51/1-R.T WITH A. CARTOON. 
E 
0 0 
~ 
Ql 
LI 
I


IT'5 ABO UT A GU'Y WHO SHOWS A CARTOON BEFORE GlV!NG A. GORING PRE.5ENTt,._TION. 


CROSSWORU 
ACROSS 29 1997 Masters 57 Carnation holder wmner 
salssue1 Cause of gray 31 Frozen dew 

59 Keatsian works 32Go-­hair 
60 Trades jabs success 61 N.B.A. 
sOlympic 
331990'ssinger Tori 
personnel 34 Substantive 10 They may be 
collared 36 Nile menace
14 Flier's feat 
DOWN 

37 E.R. employees
15 Professor Hill 1 Dangerous
38 Bluebelle, e.g., 
16Stub­
nestful

in old TV ads 
17 Distribute a 1964 2 Charge
Sidney Lumet 39 Phony phone film caller 
3 Choice word 40 Protest leader 4 Crown material, 
208011 site 44Awaken 
in the Wisdom of 

21 Quarrel Solomon
45 401 (k) cousins
22 Suds 5 Beaten badly 46 Blue23 "High Noon· & Intestinal prefix 
49 Racing vehicles 7 Subtraction amt. 
sheriff Will -­53 Hipsters'24 Seedy 
a-standstill

ballpark lunch 
second-floor apartment 56 Confusion 
9 Used a payment plan 

--------------• 10 Bunch ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 Division politique B O A T 12 Sukiyaki A M I --+-t--t-........ E N D O ingredient 
T I N ..,_~-:-L I Z A 13Slip(in) D 18 Leads the bidding 

calendars 23 Masseur's target 24 It's ruled 2s"-Fool 

Believes" (1979 L ..:+,,..,.~ N 0 
#1 hit) AVON -:-+.:-:-+::-t-::~ LAY 
26 Jeweler's unit Z I N C -:-+::+.:::+.=+.-:-, Y N E 
27 Familiar with 

EDGE ..;:..a...
..................:... XED 
28 Amount of corn 

The Observer 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
BILL AMEND 
"l'ovR WoRLI> .-r1ST0RY 
CLASS WAS LAST 
SEMESTER, SoN. 8Y TliE WAY, I IT'S TWo-
Scon ADAMS 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Chastity Bono, Catherine O'Hara, Emilio Estefan,, Kay Lenz., Pa15)1 Kensit, Paula Prentiss 
Happy Birthd.1y: It's time to stop living in the past and for other peo­ple. You're the only one who can tum your life around, and it's time you did so. This i.<l the beginning of the rest of your life, so start living it to the fullest. You will only get back what you put out; don't wait for things to happen. You must take the initiative in implementing your intentions. Your numbers: 7, 16, 21, 30, 36, 47 
ARIES (M.ardt 21-ApriJ 19): Don't make hasty decisions about your personal ooncems. Relationships may be hard to handle right now. You may have more than one lovE' interest, which is causing friction and confusion 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): EXJ)E'ct a co-worker or your boss to be a little underhanded. Keep your eyes open to av,:,id getting blamed for something you liad no part of. Inti­~ witft clients will cause discord. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You better be p"'J>ared to budget carefully or you will have difficulty meeting all your responsibilities You wrn be tempted to spend far too much on luxurious forms of entertainment. 00000 
CANCER (Jun~ 21-July 22): T1111es are changing. Get out of this depressed cycle and look to new and exciting activities that will promote romance. Forget past partners who are no longer in your lile. 00 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can't believe everything you hear today. , i,uJu, matters will <llll.l11!e tn~ remit 
••,, k ._._:.,._,. __ ..........,,u,.1.,.1, ., • -.........1... You may be forced to deal with someone you don't respect at work. 
0000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-SepL 22): Losses will cause upset You mustn't leave your belongings out in the open. Investments will not be lucrative. Pre­sentations may be convincing, but you must read between the lines. 
000 
LIBRA (SepL 23-0ct. 22): You will have a problem concentrating on your job. Personal matters are inter­fering with your productivity. Take the day off and make plans to relax or pamper yourseU. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): There will be unreliable individuals around you. Your boss may be watch­ing how you handle the situation. You shouldn't let someone's inexperi­ence hinder your advancement. 000 
SAGrITARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Someone you thought you could trust may be doing you out of what is rightfully yours. Don't get involyed in joint financial deals or co-sign loans for friends or relatives. 0000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Deception is a key issue in your personal life. Somewhere along the line your mate either stopped telling you the truth, or you just refused to acknowledge it. Stand bark anc re-evaluate. 00 
AQUARIDS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Yol will be annoyed at yourself if you have neglected to say things to thos,: you love. Loneliness is an issu~ and ii is time to get out and join dubs or groups that will lift your spirits. 00000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will hav, probtur.s \'. ;:.h children if you hav_e spoiled them in the past. 
Yon n\U,;;tn't (Wpf"C,._..~ r--t,}t:n on too 
~ ..... "O ,..,.., • ._ ..... , _._._..,_.. u,.., ..,.,.., ) -..1'-'l• "-'"-•'" 
bet. 000 
MoST ALARM1NC, IS THIS 
HALF•F1N1SI-IED Mtl>­
ltRM ESSA'Y YOU'RE 
WR1T1N6 FoR WHY'S 

,¦ 0£ INTE8EST
l-....; , •-~ .•.--, .•.•· , , ' 
.1,~.:::=-:.),'\ ;,:: 
The' Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra presents its Winter Concert this evening at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. The concert features two winners of the 1998-99 Music, Department Concerto Competition: graduate stu­dents Stephanie Mann, soprano, and Larry Taylor, piano. Also on the program are Debussy's prelude to The Afternoon of a faun and beethoven's Symphony #2. (he. c(mcert is free and open to the public; please call 
, 631-6201 for more information. 
Free 1st Friday! There will be free chicken drumettes, free cheese pizza, free veggie pizza, free fries. free veggie tray and free fruit tray tomorrow in theNotre Dame Room in Lafortune Student Canter from 12-1:30 p.m, All are welcomed and expected. 
Wanted: Reporters and photographers. Join The Observer 
Staff. 
The Observer 
P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46556 

29 Occasions when the arms are raised 
30 Hawks' former arena 
34 Broadway fare 
35--'acte 36 Person with a cause 38 Bit of high 
jinks 
39 Do together 
41 Carpet fibers 
42 Closer so "Coriolanus" setting
43 Needs a bib 
51 Work-weary46 Second time 
exclamation 
around? 
s2J.F.K. jets 47Waytogo 
54 Water source 48S!ip (in) 55 Loser's place? 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
0 Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name _______________________ 
Address ____________________ 
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
-

-

¦ Boxing promoter ¦ Allen Iverson and 

.... 
Don King agrees to set­the 76ers trounced the tlement in courtroom Bulls 102-86. battle.
PORTS 
O 
THE 

page 28 BSERVER Thursday, March 4, 1999 

¦ MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Pirates sink Irish NIT hopes in Big East Tournament 
Turnover problems 
force end to season 
By JOEY CAVATO Associate Sports Editor 
The best place to catch Les Miserables is on Broadway. but the Notre Dame men's basketball team caught another encore performance at Madison Square Garden. 
Ninth-seeded Seton Hall (l4-U) jumped out in front of Notre Dame (14-16) and held on for a 79­69 win in the first round of the Big East tourna­ment yesterday morning. 
With the loss. Notre Dame failed to win a game in tile Big East tournament for the fourth year in a row. 
"H's disappointing because we were hoping to make a run in the tournament and hopefully get an NIT bid." freshman forward Troy Murphy said. 
Murphy proved why he won the Big East Bookie of the Year award as he scored 28 points and hauled in 15 rebounds, both Notre Dame Big East tournament records. 
An aggressive Seton Hall defense and balanced scoring prevented an Irish comeback. 
"This was a team effort," Seton Hall coach Tommy Amaker said. 'Tm proud of our team for hanging tough. lighting through and winning a game against a tough Notre Dame team." 
The Irish fell behind by 14 early in the second half. but pulled within five with two minutes left. Excellent free throw shooting by the Pirates put away the game. 
Notre Dame fell behind and stalled on offense due to turnover problems. The Irish had 23 turnovers on the afternoon, compared to only 11 for Seton Hall. 
"They did a great job of changing defenses and forcing turnovers." Notre Dame head coach John MacLeod said. "Their defense gave us a lot of 
see IRISH/ page 26 

¦ MEN'S TENNIS 

Murphy earns Big East Rookie honors 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Sports Editor 

In a season where few moments of' brilliance 
have stood out, Tuesday night marked a bright 
spot for the Notre Dame basketball program. 
It marked tho beginning or a future. 

Thfl Big East named Troy Murphy the Bookie or 
the Year. The freshman has led the Irish all sea­
son and has never looked back. 

In the final game of his freshman year, Murphy emphasized his presenl'.e one linal time. 
He contributed 28 points, which surpassed Adrian Dantley·s freshman scoring record of 51 l points in a season. 
Murphy linished the season with 519 points and the new freshman scoring record. 
"I thought Murphy was tremendous," Seton Hall head coach Tommy Amaker said about Murphy's 28-point performance. "lie is a special player because he scores inside and outside." 
Notre Dame knew it had something special when the freshman started the regular season with a bang, scoring 19 points and grabbing six rebounds. 
"f thought throughout the year he has held up 
very well and kept his composure," head coach 
John Macleod said. 

Murphy tied Allen lverson's record for most points in a Big East conference debut, just one month after the start of his college earner. 
On Dec. 8 against Providence, hn tied the record with 30 points and grabbed 11 rebounds while leading his team to a throe-point win. 
Wednesday's performance typified Murphy's play all season. The freshman took the brunt of the load, never giving up. 
"I like what Troy did," MacLeod said. "You know the thing he does is never give up. He was 
Freshman Troy Murphy had 28 points and 15 rebounds in Wednesday's loss to Seton Hall. see INSIGHT/ page 26 
Irish streak hits 10 with victory over Michigan State 
Special to the Observer 
Freshman Andrew Laflin rallied from a 3-6, 1-4 deficit for a :~-6. 6-4, 6-3 win over Chris Struck at No. 4 singles to lead the 24th-ranked Notre 
-
Dame men's tennis team to its 10lh consecutive ,vin over Michigan State with a 4-3 win over the 53rd-ranked Spartans on Wednesday in East Lansing. Mich. 
The Irish won the doubles point and split the six singles matches to improve to 9-4 while Michigan State falls to 2-4. 
Junior All-American Hyan Sachire. senior Brian Patterson and Laflin gave the Irish wins in their singles matches. 
The second-ranked Sachirc improved to 28-5 this vear with a 6-3, 6-1 win over ~rrey Eubanks at No. l singles. Patt~rson won his seventh straight match with a 6-2, 6-3 win over lvica Primorac at No. 2 singles. 
I.aflin's win was his third match-clinching victory of' the season and improved his 1999 record to 11-0. 

Michigan State's Ken Kigongo beat Matt Ualy 7-5. 6-2 a1 No. 2 singles, Francisco Trinidad beat Casey Smith 4-6, 7-6 (41, 7-6 
(4) and Todd Kosta beat Andy Warford 6-4. 3-6, 6-3 at No. 6 singles for the Spartans threp, points. 
The Irish won the doubles point with a tiebreaker win at No. 1 doubles. 
Patterson and Sachire held off set points against them in 
ass1c 
their 9-8 (7-3) win over 12th­ranked Kigongo and Trinidad to clinch the doubles point. TrPnl Miller and Warford beat Mark .lal'.obsnn and Kosta 8-1 at No. 3 doubles. Eubanks and Struck beat Daly and Smith 8-5 at No. 2 dou­bles. 
Notre Dame returns to the court on Saturday, March 13. when the Irish travel to Miami Pia. !'or a match in their first outdoor match of the year. 


The Observer/Jeff Hsu Junior All-American Ryan Sachire led the Irish to its 10th-consecutive win over Michigan State on Wednesday. 
vs. Indiana NCAA Track and Field
rfi'
',:::::::,) Friday, 3 p.m. Championships

SPORTS 
~. Men's Baseball 
F riday-Sarur<lay 
vs. Penn State 

-ATA 
Saturday, 3 p.m. 
vs. Wake Forest 
at Miami
I) Saturday, 11 a.m.. ~ Friday, 7 p.m. 

GLANCE 




