
7}'1.,,i,j/4, olic,ve. eC,M,,M,,e,e,f,i,c,-1'\., 
Free A.t Lnsl 
Tuesday
¦ After 41 years in solitary confinement, a North
¦ Student government is organizing a 
Korean citizen was granted political amnesty by
program to pair up students who might make 
FEBRUARY
South Korea.
a good match. 
Scene• 12-13 
World & Nation • 5 
23, 1999 
THE 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 95 SUB wins pair of national awards for programming 
By ERICA THESING 
A"i,w111 New, F.ditor 
Tlui Nolrl' IJamP Studr.nt. Union Board (SUB) won lwo awards l'or its programming activilins from the National t\ssodation of C:ollegiate /\ctivitir.s, which rPrognized thP .lava and .Jazz SPries as the "Outstanding Snries of' I998" and tho Sop ho morn 
I.ii Prary FPst ival as "Outstanding Program of' 1 ')98." 
ThPs<' awards wPrn two of' thn thr(1r. givnn in the llliana n•gion, whirh inrludes all collr.ges and uni­wrsil.if's in Illinois and Indiana. 
TIH• award !'or oulslanding program is espr.cially important linraus,i ii foils into onn of thn mClsl. com­JWlilivP t'.lllPgorins, said 1.izzin Brady, this yr.ar's clirn,·wr of programming f'or SUB. Brady explained that llw Sophomor,1 l.itr.rary Festival is a unique program bPcausc it runs for an entirn week and inrludPs not only profossors and studnnts, but com­munity lllt'mhnrs as w,,11. 
"I think tlwy saw tlrn mnrits in that and all tlw t>l'l'orls lhat WPnl into ii," slw said. 
Tlw '.{2-yPar lradition ol' tlw Sophomon• l.itr.rnry P1•stival may haw also playmJ a roil' in tlw award, sitid JocPlyn Szczpp1tniak-Cill1)C(\, who was last yPur's FPstirnl chair. · "I think a lot ol' it has to do with thn tradition," slw said. "/\lsn, I don't 1·pally knovv of any other srhool that has a WPPk-long liltwnry fnstival. It's uniqm•." 
Szrznpaniak-< iillncP also pointnd out the impor­1.nnr,• of tlrn f'nstival as a cnlnhration of the arts on rampus. 
"It mnkns pPoplP awarn that thr.rn is an art com­munity al Notrn Damn," slw said. "That's impor­lanl." 
Tim .Java and .Jazz s,~ri11s bngan last year and 
see SUB/ page 4 
WWW. ND.EDU/~OBSERVER
,::, 

By RUTH SNELL 
News Writer 
The Inn at Saint Mary's seems to he back on track al'tr.r sustaining lire damage two weeks ago. 
Originally 60 to 70 rooms were out of commission, but now only four rooms remain unusable. The 60 to 70 rooms that could not be used r.arlier could not be used hr.cause of safety reasons rather than because of damage from the fire. 
"A lot of f'ire control systems land) life support systems wcrr. damaged and we didn't want to compromise th11 health of' any of' our guests," said Louis Christian, g1rneral manager of The Inn at Saint Mary's. 
Four resnrvations had to bn can­cr.Jlnd over Notre Dame's Junior Parents Weekend due to continued ropairs on the fire-damaged rooms. 
"The biggest problem was the interruption of services to our guests," said Christian, who explained that the four moms still under rr.pair aro thos11 in which the fire occurrnd. Thny sustained smokn, waler anrl lwat darnagn. "We hope to huvfl tlwm ba('k on lino within tlw week," Christian added. 
/\II r,1pairs should bn linislwd in timo for Saint Mary's Junior Moms Weeknnd. 
The total amount of damage and the cost of repairs has not ynt brnm calculated. 
"We'rn not evr.n trying to got an estimate yet." Christian said. "We're still calculating." 
Quigley: Death penalty a 'terrible system' for all 

By CHRISTINE KRALY 
Assistant News Editor 
The death penalty "is not 100 percent one way, and zero percent the other," said Bill Quigley yesterday in his lecturn "Dead Man Walking ... and Walking ... and Walking ... and Walking." 
Quigley, a law professor at Loyola University of Nr.w Orleans and director or the school's Poverty Law Center, spoke on capital punishment and his tins to Sister Helen Prejean, author of "Dead Man Walking." 
Quigley highlighted the fact that the death pnnalty is not an easy or comlbrt­able issue to discuss. The important thing, he notPd, is to know that you don't have to bn on either sidr. of the argunwnt. 
"Don't let anyone forcn you into !'also choices," he said, strr.ssing the f'act that a false choice occurs when someono believes that he can't be unsure of his views on the argument and that ho must choose sides. "Don't settle for less [than what you want or believe!." 
Quigley said people should be comfort­able saying that they are not sure. "The fact that you don't know is bettr.r than [knowing wrongly)." 
Quigley, who described Sistr,r llnlen Prejean as the "funniest saint I know," has been Prnjean's associate and logal adviser for many years. As a long-time opponont of capital punishment, he servnd as a member of the Ir.gal tnarn in the casr. highlighted in "Ih•ad Man Walking." 
By tlrn tinrn they becomo his dinnts, Quigley's defendants havn alrr.ady been convicted and sentenced to death. lie is called on to help ovr.rturn tho snntcncn to save the criminal's lifo. 
"!Tho] systnm that we have is a terrible system for HV(~rybody," hn said, noting that prisoners wait on Death How for many years during appeals and families must sulfor while watching their loved one's assailant livn. The system doesn't work, ho said, when on ono side is a dis­trict attorney and a grinving family and on the other is a person lighting for lifn. 
"You don't get to lkuth How by acci­dent. !Tlrnse pc~ople commit! tlw most horrilying, terribln, disgusting ... crimes," he said. "The qucsl.ion is not whntlwr peopln have 1111rnc,rl [tlrn death penally!, it's what happons to us lwlrnn we kill them!." 
The United Statns has cxecutnd 500 inmates since 1976 when tlw death penalty was rninstatnd, according to· Quiglr.y. !lo did noto that tho numbnr could have benn 51 I, hut that Illinois has f'rned 11 DPath How inmatns in the last 12 years. 
"They arc frned usually because tlwy had another trial ... or somrnmo Plsc con-
see QUIGLEY/ page 4 

page 2 
¦ INSIDE COLUMN 
Being out­dated 
I love my Mom. I love her so dearly. She bas dnne so much for me now and yet expects so very little in return. I would do almost any­thing for my Mom. Ah. when I think of her now -I am suddenly reminded of how much C.R. "Teo" Teodoro of a losM I am. Illustrations Editor 
Don't get me wrong. I love my !\lorn, but I can't help Lo stop thinking of how she has more of a life than l do. Let mo put it this way: there's a pretty good chance that you have no life if you are getting out­dated by your mom. 
Let me start at the beginning. Last year, my brother. sister. and I all left for <'Ollege for the first time. I guess Mom was foeling some sort of empty-nest syndrome, but it didn't last long. FortunatPly for her, I had built an Internet-ready computer over the summer so she could now get on line. At first it was just the new toy of the home; my family was on it 24-7, but Urn novelty wore off after a couple weeks. This sets the stage for what would happen next. 
Being all alone (and using what I taught her about computers and the lnterneO Mom start­ed to go into chat rooms more. She met some intPresting people, one that lived in the area. After some time. my Mom decided to soc one of her friends "irl" (in real life). Since there were no kids in the house, she could do what­ever she wantf'd. 
Well to make a long story short. my Mom started to go out and have fun more often. I found out last October that my Mom's new friend is now her boyfriend. Now I hear that my Mom is going over almost every other night. Bearing in mind that l haven't really gone on a date bnfore !okay, technically I went on two dates. but they were with the same girl and it was a platonic thing). I now realized that my Mom's out-dating me, that she's cool and I'm not that cool. 
Actually, I'm okay with this whole thing. I'm glad that my Mom is happy. Ilowever, during the winlfw break. I always had to wait up late at night for her before she returned home. Now hero·s the rnal trip about this tale. 
On the night before Christmas Eve, my mom's boyfriend, Dean. approached my Mother and proposed to her. My Mom accept­ed. Yeah, there wern some heads spinning once word of this got out. My brother was trippin' out over it though he's happy for our mom. I le went outside for a smoke to clear his head about what he just heard. l myself was pretty unshaken since my life almost a soap opera already. I'm happy for her. 
Still, it makes me think: once she had finally gotten all the kids out of the house, she start­ed to go out, lose weight. have more fun. find a younger boyfriend, fix her hair up all sexy. rent out the old house, and get engaged! 
The wedding is sometime in August. I still got to laugh when I think about how Mom and Dean got together. But my Mom is pretty amazing for her age. For a girl in her 40s, she can easily pass as though she were in her 30s, and with a little help from my sister's wardrobe, in her 20s. 
My whole family now gets out more than I do. My sis and bro go to parties and hang out together with their crew. Now my mom is get­ting her groove on. And I'm usually stuck at home with nothing to do. I wonder if I'm adopted! 
UPDATE FHOM LAST WEEK'S INSIDE COL­UMN: Aw. yeah! I now have a date. 
The uiews exprussed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
¦ Tootw's STAFF 
News Scene Anne Marie Mattingly Loubel Cruz Brad Untiedt Production Maureen Smithe 
Kathleen Lopez 
Sports 
Graphics 
Rrian Kessler 
Scott Hardy 
Viewpoint 
Lab Tech 
Eddie Uull 
Ernesto Lacayo 
Th, Obsmcr (USPS 599 2-4000) i, published Monday throui;h Friday e).cc-pr during exam and vacarion periods. The Observer ii.. a member of the Assoc1arcd Presi.. All reproduction rights are re.served. 
The Observer• INSIDE Tuesday, February 23, 1999 
utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Former medical professor faces charges of rape and assult 
HOSTON, Mass. 
A Boston University profossor and area doctor will be arraigned Wednesday on charges he raped one patient and molested three others. 
Marcos Ramos, a professor in BU's Sr.hool of' MPdir.inP, was indicted Feb. 12 on one count of rape and seven counts of indecent assault and battery, said James Borghcsani, a spokesman for the Suffolk County district attorney's office. 
The charges wHre made public Friday. Ramos has not been arrest­ed. 
The Boston Cnivcrsity Medical Center said in a written statement Ramos has not taught at BU since 1997 and has not received any salary or financial support from the BU School of' Medicine since 1994. 
His teaching appointment expires in Jum, and will not be renewed, tho 

If convicted, Ramos, 57, faces up to 20 years for rape and up to five ynars for each of the indecent assault and battery c·hargPs, Borghesani said. 
The alleged rape took place in 1987. and the seven instances of indecent assault and battery alleged­Iv occurred with three different vic­tims in 1994. 1995 and 1996, he said. 
All of the alleged incidPnts took place in Ramos' office on Harrison 
Avenue, which he rcntl~d from the Boston Medical Center. 
Ten more women have come for­ward since Friday to claim they were assaulted by Harnos. 
Ramos, who practices physical medicine and rehabilitation, has been licensed in Massachusetts for the past 2:3 years. He S!\rved as assistant chief of the Department of' Rehabilitation Medir.inc at University Hospital, which was owned by BU, from 1977 to 1989. 
Since 1981, he has accruocl numer­ous complaints with the Massachusetts Board of Registration in Medicine. Thirtenn of them -not all of which were sexual in nature ­have been dismissed, board spokesman Charlie Moore said. 
He would not comment on Urn total number of complaints, saying pend­ing complaints cannot be releasrd to the public. 
¦ UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN Protestors march for Kurdistan 
ANN AHBOR, Mich. 
Chanting "Free, free, Kurdistan" and "Stop killing Kurds," about 40 protesters marched along South State Street and through the Diag on Friday afternoon in an effort to height­en local awareness of conflicts in Turkey between Kurds and Turks. "We're protesting the kidnapping of Ocalan," protester Zozek Khailany said. The Turkish newspaper Hurriyet reported Friday that the country's Prime Minister Rulent Ecevit said a commando team captured Kurdish rebel leader Abdullah Ocalan in the Kenyan capital of Nairobi. In Turkey's Kurdish southeast. protests over the arrest continued. Security forces on Friday !ired on Kurdish demonstrators in the town of Kiziltepe, killing one and wounding five, said Asian Yildiz, an official of the pro­Kurdish People's Democracy Party. Ecevit renewed surren­der appeals Saturday to Ocalan's fighters. asking them to lay down their arms in exchange for clemency. 
¦ Ui\i!VERS!TY Of VmG!NiA Alumni association offers e-mail for life 
CHARLOTTESVILLE. Va. 
You've got mail -for life. In an effort to make it easier for graduates to keep up with friends and contacts after leaving the University of Virginia, the Alumni Association is now oITering e-mail for life. Beginning this summer, graduates of the University will be able to continue to receive e-mail at their University e-mail address. The Alumni Association decided to keep the e-mail accounts of graduates active in response to suggestions from the three-year-old Young Alumni Council. Alumni Association President Wayne Cozart said. "The impetus came from other young alumni saying this would be a great thing to have," Young Alumni Council president Scott Jones said. "It would be one way alumni could still stay connected to the university." In addition to keeping their university address, alumni can inform the Alumni Association of their new Internet provider and have their e-mail forwarded to them at their new addresses. 
¦ f\!ORTHWESTHU\1 UNIVERSITY Students to testify in murder case 
EVANSTON, Ill. 
Mcdill Professor David Protess and five ol' his students were subpoenaed to testify this morning in front of' a grand jury looking into a murder case they investigated. The Northwestern team helped overturn thn conviction of' Anthony Porter, who was released from doath row Feb. 5. But prosecutors with the Cook County state's attorney's otlice revealed on Friday that a false videotape was used in an attempt to persuade a Milwaukee man lo confess to the murders that sent Porter to prison l'or nearly 17 ynars. The group found that Porter. 44. was wrongly convicted in September 1983 of the murders of two Chicago teenagers. Porter was scheduled to be formally clearnd of the murder charges Friday, Protrss and srniors Shawn Armbrust. Erica LeBorgne. Tom McCann. Syandene Hhodrs-Pitts and Cara Hubinsky will testify about how they obtained the informa­tion that led to Alstory Simon's confession. 
¦ NORTH CA.fWUNA STATE UNIVERSITY Two students face porn charges 
HALEIGII. N.C. 
Two North Carolina State students wern arrnstnd last 
Wednesday. in unrelated cases. for harboring and trading 
child pornography through their university Web sites, 
according to information from the State Burnau of 
Investigation. Jon Brock, a sophomore in computer sci­
ence, was charged with two counts of second-dngrec sexu­
al exploitation of a minor, while Timothy Gilrane. a senior 
in economics, was charged with third-dngree sexual 
exploitation of a minor. In tlrn two cases. which arn unre­
lated. according to a News & Observer article, Gilrane is 
accused of trading illegal picturns of minors and making 
them available to the public through his Web site. Brock is 
accused of' storing pictures ol' minors engaged in sexual 
acts on his hard drive. Bond is set for Brock at $20,000 
and for Gilrane at $5,000. Brock can not be in tlw pres­
ence of a minor without adult supervision. 
¦ Smrrn BHH) WEATHER ¦ NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather~ forecast for <lay time conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon. Tuesday, Feb. 23. 
H L 
Tuesday Q. 30 16 Wednesdayc:::1 38 28 

Thursday Friday 
,' 
Saturday 
(,~,,/,j'-~•••,~,.v•1'\ ,.• 
~ 1999 Ae.cuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY
,~ 4'S 34 
Pressure 
~..~,.. 
® © . CJ. ~ D. D EB () 1~; ,#'.#.,./¥ 
High Low Showers Rain T•storms Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. CIOLldV Cloudy 
Atlanta 42 26 Denver 48 20 Las Vegas 68 38 
Boston 26 7 Detroil 27 9 Pittsburgh 30 6
45~tQQQQ ~ ~ u 
Baton Rouge 64 42 Fargo 28 20 St. Louis 31 29
Showers T•storms Rain FI~r;ies S~a·; Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Cleveland 28 8 Hershey 29 7 Vermillion 30 17 
V1S Assoa.ated Press (JraphicsNet 
·1i.1es<lay, h:hruary 25, 1999 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS page 3
----------· ----
Dietician explains means to health through diet 
. 
13y ANGEi.A WOGATZKE hahits such as how Lo eat and rnsults in the gain of about News Wri1a how of't,,11 to do so. <1ight pounds a yoar," she "You sho11lrl definitely stop acldncl . 
Cindy Tansl'k-Carroll. a rcg­wlwn you arc full. Par<!llls Tansek-Carroll emphasized is 11• r,;d di11ti1•.ia11 from should nncouraµn their chil­that attempts to deny this sys­Mc•morial llospi1al. providl'd drnn to eat twallhv. but. not to lem of'trrn rnsults in eating dis­i 11 !'o rm n l i o n o II how lo ,, ;1 t rc~slricl them," slrn said. "/\ orders. nulrifiously at a brown bag good way to roi11/'orcn lrnallhy "Fat is not a feeling. Iu n I' h prI's,, 11 la Iio 11 " I I ow (•ating habils, Pspncially if you Someone with an eating disor­1 lnalthy am You'?" Monday at am oaling oul, would be to der is most likely feeling a Saint Mary's as ll part of ent:011ragn them lo oat the sense of control when they do National Eating Disordnrs foods with the most nutrients not r.at, or if they bingo eat Aw,trt•twss Wnnk. first. and purge," sho explained. 
ShP also discussf>Cf nating "/\!so, we shouldn't leach "Many with eating disorders disorders and chall1•ngPd lis­lhom lchildrcnl that desserts such as anorexia norvosa and wnnrs to think ahout what can are forbidden, or that certain bulimia. have been through lw clonn to lwlp sonrnonP who foods am 'junk,"' she contin-othor circumstances loading may havn an nating disordN. up to their disordtir. Some of 
"You should hav,~ anywhern those qualifying factors could bctwnnn 40 and 50 nutrknts a be living in a dysfunctional
,No ONE NEEDS TO
day, hul you should think food family, having an obsessive­first. not pills or vitamins,." 'DIET,' BUT THEY compulsive disorder, or feeling said Tansnk-C:arrol!. inadequate among peers," said
SHOULD LEARN TO EAT 
Slrn also addrcssflcl concerns Tansek-Carroll. 
RIGHT AND INCORPORATE
or v1igPtarians about how to She focused on a different gnl Pnough protd11 in tlu\ir EXERCISE INTO THEIR LIVES.' approach to becoming healthy. dints. "No one ncflds to 'diAt.' but. 
"I\ portion of' moat is roughly they should learn to eat right llw sizn of your hand. Although CINDY TANSHK-CIRROU. and incorporate exercise into 
giving up n11~al isn't" bad !Jl!,'TJCIAN, MEMO!UAJ. /lOSPITAL their lives," she continued. thing to do, you may want to "Exorcising regularly. or just think ol' tho allcwnalivn sources slaying active increases your of' prot~iin l,Oll c:1t11 _im:l.~1~1'• in metabolism. Staying active by 
your rl1cl. shn said. Some twd. "Those dnssnrts and taking the stairs when possi­a Il11rnativ1~s am nati 11g fish snacks aru as much a part of 1.Jle, standing at work wlrnn onn• a w1•11k or nating nuts, our diets as thosn in tlrn other you might be sitting stationary "We also have to make sum to them, is crucial. eggs. peanut huller. yogurt food groups." for a long time. and parking that we are getting enough cal­"Dealing with your lrna!th ancl otlwr dairy products In a media drivon society. a further away on campus, so cium -men and women arc realistically and maintaining which art> rirh in protein and variety of special diets have you can walk a little extra are both at risk for osteoporosis -goals that are healthy and cakillm." bnen introduced to us, and one just a few ways you can and drinking eight glasses of attainable, should include dis­
Tim audicnc1! ruisnd ques­that is nevflr healthy, is a increase your metabolism." water a day. A lot of people tinguishing between what is tions concerning tlrn nutrition­"crash diet." The worst thing a Eating periodically through­are walking around who arc healthy and what is detrimen­al valtw or l'oocl substitutes fnr person can do for his or her out the day, either in six dehydrated and don't even tal, such as the behaviors that 1iggs and sugar, which Tansck­health is to not eat. snacks of the recommended· know it," she said. make one develop anorexia Carrol I calilid "an equally "Going without food for five serving sizes and food groups. "Products containing caffeine nervosa or bulimia," said lwalthy substilul1' in most hours or more deprives you of or three meals and three are best limited to a couple Tansek-Carrol!. ras1is." thoso nutrients your body snacks of the same manner, is servings per day. but the real "Seeking a variety in your 
"ligg substitutns contain egg rweds for the day. and slows also an option a person might key·to desserts, carbonated diet and exorcise, being 11exi­whites and f'ood coloring. elim­your metabolism," explained try, especially if she finds she drinks, and alcohol is modera­ble in your diet. and not pun­inating the part with th1\ most Tansek-Carroll. is hungry several times a day, tion. You really are not missing ishing yourself or being cholnstl•rol," shn said. "While asleep, tho body does explained Tansek-Carroll. anything if you are not drink­ashamed of yourself for eating "SuhstituL1is such as most of the absorption of the The snacks should be from ing pop, at least where your a certain food brings you clos­Nutraswc11t for sugar arc ideal vitamins and proteins it needs, the recommended portions of health is concerned," Tansek­er to feeling good about who if you arn a r!iabetk." and therefore, tho worst thing the five food groups (milk, Carroll commented. you are. Being comfortable 
Tansnk-Carroll also ·you can do to start your day is meat, vegetable, fruit, and Identifying behaviors that with yourself, regardless of addressed serving sizes and to skip breakfast. Regularly grain), but a snack from the you think might be indicative what the mirror or scale says how many s1~rvings a day a skipping hrnakfast. nven if you "other" group once a day of an eating disorder and to you is what matters the pc~rson should m1t. as wl!ll as clnn't fnel hungry. usually won't hurt, she said. referring them to help, or holp most." 

* * * A Hanley Lecture Series Program : Washington Semester Program * * * 
Come to theC()ideoconference with William Kristol 
Leading Republican thinker and publicist 

February 23rd -Tuesday 
7:20 p.m. COBA -Room 134 
College of Business Administration 
William Kristol is editor and puhlisher ofthe influential political magazine, The Weekly Standard. Widely recognized as one ofthe nation's leading political analysts and com­mentators, Mr. Kristol is a regular on ABC's This Week; and he also appears often on 
Good Morning American,' The News/lour with Jim Lehrer and the Charlie Rose Show. 
Mr. Kristo! served as chiefofstaff to Vice President Dan Quayle during the Bush admin­istration, and to Secretary ofEducation William Bennett under President Reagan. Before coming to Washington in 1985, Mr. Kristo! taught politics at the University ofPennsyl­vania and Harvard's Kennedy School ofGovernment. 

JltBASKETBALL 
Tournament March 3 -6 Madison Square Garden 


page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 23, l999 
pro 
byed. 
By JENNY BRADBUR 
New~ Writer 
The Saint Mary's Social Work Pro ''S:,rt ha'S initial accreditation for the ba.ccal . Work bv the Coun:H o,fl. Soclttl W t 
accon;!Jng to France$' . . . )Jl~iQ'WiJ'.l . 
social work. · · ........ · · ... 
This decision is ofptirtir;ular importaifli~ to Sa students studying in the social work deJiartment h may reduce the time and money they have to obtaining a graduate de~ree. . ··· 
According to Kominkit~iq, · tho accreditation is that tp1}y are:no standing• placemcrit'wh)r1 p;utsulsocial work (MSW). · · · · 
"The MSW is a 60-credH program 1u1d gettin lor's from an accredited institution <;a,n,':d,efinit that process. sometimes byas much ~9n~ yea Social work.. studentsJ1re typicaH;y'l!~"1~'1' advan.ced'..graduate. w<lj~;in,th9 ftpl~;)g"~jft',. options. .• . , , H'C . . .. · t('!!i'{it;~/,,.
Junior Maureon nortovan said she'.fy/f$ ''et:f she learned of the decision, 
"It really opened doors for my futunf beca,use the accreditation. I pr9b,aJ;,ly would .b::i.y~;y.1.post to attend graduate schoQlfor a few ye1:1,r!i, ,she 1> 
Accreditation als~ hat .. ··~ will obtain bachelot ir( l'.l traditional bachelo . . ts .... ··. ... .... . i degree will increase th.e number of career opavailable to social work majo · · · · .. ••. ·· · 
futures. 
Kominkiewicz admits tOiSpendi ing .past alumnae. th accreditation. · ·· • . · / 
"What we are trying to do no can be. Because we we:reJn ca are going to try to see tllat rece chance to benefit from this deci. Many years of worlc "Yfl~t in 
accreditation. and the> .· ·.·· of courst} appen:dice$ CSWE was most petsua ing a chance to meet last November. 
"The were just am had here/' she sai ered, intelligent w.o 
relaxing place for students to
SUB 
spend their Sundays. "The coffeehouse theme is continued from page 1 really popular but Java and 
Jazz puts a little twist on it," showcases campus jazz quar-she said. "A lot of people go tets or ensembles on selected there and just hang out with Sundays. The bands perform in friends or get some reading the La.Fortune Ballroom from done." 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. and SUB pro-The series, which began vides free donuts, coffee and under the cultural arts com­other breakfast foods for any-mission of SUB. runs about five one who stops by. Brady, who times a vear. The next Java was chair of Java and Jazz last and Jaz·z is scheduled for y1rnr, said that it provides a Sunday.
~.~n::7;7r:c;~1;~cte;;i 
~ IYfflW,.......!,(IL, I ~
E , · ,,, · presents our Annual 1
I , ~ -.-...:_, Daffodil Days 11, I ~ 
j For only six dollars, you can purchase one bunch of ten daffodils, and for ijI just three dollars more, you can purchase aslender glass vase that is just I·•., perfect for your bouquet! I
I 
The flowers will be delivered to the donns on Thursday, March 25fh. 
I 
i All proceeds from our Daffodil Days goes to the American Cancer Society •· ·
Ifor use in cancer research, education, programs, and patient services here in
JSt. Joseph County.
I Bring the sign of Spring and the flower of hope to your donn room. You 
; can use the order form below to place an order with Jessica Brookshire in 
~ 204 Rolfs Sports Center or call 1-5829 for more infonnation. j 
ijHr-----------------------,111 want to order _ bunches of Daffodils with _ vases. --~· ' .· · •i ~ IName:_____ · , •~
:.:,.,: I •. I~ 
~ IAddress: _ __Hall, Notre Dame, IN, 46556 .•,, '','.>" !JIr.g
!IMy contribution of$_ to fight cancer is enclosed. &::{~!f1[. I .
i~----------~---~~~------~
-..~'a"&.~e.>a'&;?l..~'RZ.e.'a"'&.'0.e.'a"'&.~"'&.~'a"'&.~"'&.~'R'RW&'R~~~ , 
when he decided that what he really wanted to do was help people. 
Quigley 
"You can have a family, have a car, raise chil­continued from page I dren, and at the same time help other people," he said. noting that most people do not realize fesses," he said. that "there is no profession where you can't ht1lp Quigley stressed the need to re-examine the law oppressed people.... You can make money and and the death penalty system. be good at your profession and still help people." "The law is one thing and justice is another Quigley last saw Prejean in January when thing ... it is our [society's] job to [bridge] the Dobey Gillis Williams was executed in Louisiana. gap," he s11id. Part of' Prejean's beauty, he said, is her ability to He also focused on know that "you can the down-spiraling have one hand in the prison situation in the hand of' the victim, 
u. s. and a hand in the
'you DON'T GET TO DEATH ROW BY ACCI­
"Prisons are (the) hand of the [crimi­toilets of our society ... DENT. [THE.5E PEOPLE COMMIT] THE nal]." where we put things He says Prejoan,
MOST HORRIFYING, TERRIBLE, DISGUSTING ... 
we don't [ever] want who was a finalist to see again," he said. CRIMES. THE QUESTION IS NOT WHETHER PEO­last year for tlw Lead1:ns like Nobfll Pflace Prize, is
PLE HAVE EARNED [THE DEATH PENALTY], IT'S
Prejean make a huge a "wonderful, friend­
difference. but unfor­WHAT HAPPENS TO US [WHEN WE KILL THEM].' ly. funny person" tunately. "there are a with an "aura of I love lot more people with and care] around
Btu Ql!!Gl,EY
needs than people to her." She also knows help," Quigley said. LOYOLA UN!VERSJTY OF NEW ORLEANS LAW PROFESSOR that she cannot make "The prophets in a difference by her-
our time are contro-self. versial because they "You cannot swim don't shut up," he added, emphasizing the popu­against the stream alone ... you have to do it with 
larity of prophets like Prejean. "If you·rc going to others," he explained. work with [social injustice], you're not going to "Iler spontaneity is her genius, but lrnr flipsidn be universally loved ... you can imagine the kind is she is very disorganized," h(1 said, stressing of things people write to her .... [Pre_jean] is the that if society realizes that she is "incredibly most visible person in the world [concerning the good, [but) not pnrfect," people will be more con­death penalty]." nected to her. 
Quigley said that when he was 20. instead of Quigley's lecture is part of the cours(\. looking towards graduate school or making "American Catholic Prophets" taught by Paul money, he wanted to be a priest. After graduat­Wilkes, visiting W. llarold and Martha Welsh ing from Purdue University he became a lawyer Professor of' American Studicis. 
At just 99¢, this deal's gonna make your mouth water. 
(Not to mention your eyes.) 
{ .. i 
' 
Try the delicious new Cheese 'n Onion Melt Burger, right now only 99¢. 
Cry out for the tasty new Cheese 'n Onion Melt Burger on the 99¢ Great Tastes Menu 
at Burger King• restaurants. It's a juicy flame-broiled burger smothered with sauteed 
onions and melted cheese, right now just 99¢. That's right, just 99¢. It's a deal so good, 
it may bring tears to your eyes. But don't worry, you can always just say it's the onions. 
Limited time only Price and participation may vary. 
The Huddle· LaFortune Student Center 
~ 
BURGER 
KING 
® 
www.burgerking.com It just tastes better: 
C 1999 Burger King Corporttion. Bur~r King Corporation 111 the-txdu111ve hcen8'f! of r.he "It just Wt~s bctt~r" trildemark a,,d thr: "1it.tettd Bur~r K1ng and Bun H:a~t1 logo tr.i.deawks, 

'li.1eday, February 28, 1999 CO,l!PILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERV/CI:,"'S page 5 
¦ 
Video games, Berlin Wall 
lead stamp poll 
WASI ll N< ,TON 
With ii W!'l'K of' vuting i,,n. vidt•o l{IUIWS Hild llw f;i II of' t.hP llPr!in Wall am t.hn IPading <'an­dida U•s !'or poslag(' st.amps c·omml'moraling tlw I 11H0s. Vol.PS rast. through Fnh. 17 put. vid1•11 ganws in firsl pla!'P with I'.{],1)42 ballots, l'ollow1•d by 11J,, Bnrli11 Wall at l '.l2, 1 r>o. tlrn Postal SPrvin· said Monday. Tlw puhli!'. is lwing ask"d to sl'IPct 1;, stamps to commnmo­rah• l.lw d1•cadc• oi' t.lw I ')80s. Voting i:ontitrnns !11rot!g'li IIH• PIHi ol' th,• mnnl!t. llallots arP arnilalill' at post ollir1•s or 1m tlw lnlPnWl. Tlw 
l'JSOs stamps, lo II<' rl'l1•ast'd 1rnxl ynar, am p:1rt ol' llw posl o!lirP's t>XlP11siv1• CPIPhral,1• tlw C:P11l11ry :,wriPs, which will havP n snl ol' 1 S stamps. liir 1•1wll dpc•adc-ol' tlw 1900s. St.amps !'or tlw firs! l'iv1• dnc·Hdt>s wnrP sl'lnct<•d by postal ol'lkials. 
Woman dies from supergerm 
IIONC KON(; 
.'\ s1qwrgPr111 that has provPn rPsist.ant to 011P of' 1!11' most pot1•nt antibiotics availah!I' has killl'd a !long Kong woman, officials said today, raising !'Pars that morP SHl'h germs rnuld clPvl'iop as doctors l'onlimw to misus<' or ovt>rus1• antibiotics. TlH' mirldln-ag1\d woman rlincf Iasl yPar 11 I ()u Pl'!I Mury fl ospital a!lnr lwrnming inli•ctNI with a strain of staphylococ­<·us a11rc•11s hach\ria, or staph, dnspit11 two WC'eks of' int1•11sive antibiotics lrcatm<1nt, a spokPswoman from tlrn official llospital t\nthority said. Spmtking on customary condi­Lion of' anonymity, Urn spokeswoman con­tirnwd a n•porl publishml today in the South Chinn Morning l'ost. Tlw hospital dnclinml to rnwal tlw patil'nl's idc~11tily. The woman, who also sufforPd from canc1ir. was one of a fow known 1'11S<'S in the• world in which staph 1n·11v1id rnsista11l to vancomycin. 
Transplant patient nowhere to be found 
PAHIS 
To tlw dismay of' his doctors, a man who !asl yPar undnr.wcml a ran\ hand transplant 1111s dropped out of sight and risks losing his new limb unless lw seeks urgr.nt medical atlr.ntion. "( rnal!y didn't expccL something lik1• this lo happen," Dr. Jean-Michel !Julrnrnard or the transplant team said in a tc\lcphmw inlcirvicw Monday. Dubcrnard told Tlw Assnriatl'd l'rnss that the patient, Clint llallam. "is a dirlinill man, but he's a big hoy now and il's up to him Lo follow physiotlmra­py." llallam, 48, f'rom Nr.w Zealand, rr.cr.iwd a 1ww l'on•arm and hand in September aft11r 
I:{ hours of' surgPry at tlw Fdouarrl ll<wriot llospilal in I.yon, soutlwaslt\rn France. lie IPl'I Fnmc1• in .Januai·y. "lie said 10 days ago Ilia! his skin has tun11•d red in parts -and Lllal rould !JP a sign ol' rnjection," said IluhPrnard. 
Rffll!iiiffi&dfl,JW 
Dow 
AMEX: 
700.0j
./ONES 
+ IAC. 
Nasd:ui:
9,552.68 

2,Yi2.01 
,'iX.41 
NYSE: 
600.U 
tl.H,7 
S&P 500: 
1272.14 
Composite
,.12,')5 
Volum.,, +212.n 715,'i!!0,000 
VOLUME LEADERS 
i Sl~ll'l~) Jh, ~LH '~d UJ~!1l J ~1:\i~ l'llU J 
11111 l O\INITIII Ill II .. ~ ti~ .. ~ ;~~o Hf RH \1)( Ill l\( lJ I ( 1 l1CI' \I'd 1 ,0.72 tLtl(1IIO HK.Kl f ('tf 11-..yi..i,,1, ' \( q -..\,OK .. . .'U~o I !~~.Uh 
A~II !l c!'-il 1~1 Aill +7.K7 + 12.h2.ll'il1 17.1,1)(1 1,11.1 \ tlJW 1:-.ll i-l.71 t>L'47.'i 1\,2..Hl \11 ! Wtll!llll 1)\.l !\ Wtt'M ~{).f)l iu.~ 11'i H~.lll! 111 o\lt >hll 111 P<,.\ llhH! .,211.n +2. l.tHJCJ iU,.iK 1·11un1 {,u,w1• U,11.1' •2/.U.2 . li-H:'il> 4tt. .\h 1 11'!\,ltOl'I' 1-.;.c .. +2. fl , 1.2~2, !i.'i.•H 1·n~ll',\1Jtt1:'I.H'i111H I l'tl +I.ti! +l ..'"1~0 . Z.t,~ 
¦ YUGOSLAVIA 

Assoc1ATE1J P1wss 
PHISTINA 
Serb forces battled ethnic Albanian rebels northwest ol' Pristina today. while Secretary of State Madeleine Albright tried to keep the Kosovo peace talks in Prance from collaps­ing. 
International peace verifiers initial­ly reported that Serb police were sep­arating men from women and chil­dren in two ethnic Albanian villages near the lighting in what spokesman Sandy Blyth called "obviously a bad sign." Similar separations in the past preceded group slayings. 
Later, however, Blyth said the ass<ffLions proved wrong. 
"There is apparently no problem in either of the villages," said the spokesman for the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. "The initial reports were based on 
what we were told by international aid workers.» Television crews reported police were blocking access to the area. 
Fighting began when about 10 Serb military vehicles came under fire near Vucitrn, said Walter Ebenberger, an OSCE spokesman. 
Serb forces called in reinforce­ments -including two tanks and an armored personnel carrier -which returned fire, Ebenberger said. 
He said the fighting ebbed about two hours later, and there was no word on casualties. The ethnic Albanian-run Kosovo Information Center said the fighting started when government troops attacked three vil­lages in the Vucitrn area. 
The fighting added urgency to diplomatic efforts to save the Kosovo peace talks in France. 
Albright returned to the confer­ence site today to push the belliger­
ents hard to makn a deal with just one day left bef'orn a Tuesday dead• line. 
The ethnic Albanian center also said the body of a 50-year-old ethnic Albanian man and his son were found today near Kacane, about 30 miles south of Pristina near the Macedonian border. 
In another sign of rising tension, two members of an international team monitoring the cease-fire in Kosovo wern punched by two Snrhian policemen but were not seriously hurt, the OSCE said today. 
OSCE spokesman Jorgen Grunnet said the monitors were on a routine patrol late Sunday when they were confronted by two policenrnn. After a brief argument, the monitors were "roughed up," Grunnet said. 
Grunnct said the police also harassed other OSCE personnel whr.n they entered thn country. 
¦ SOUTH KOREA 
Political prisioner gets amnesty 
AsSOCIATEO PRF,SS 
SEOUL 
A North Korean believed to be the world's longest-serving political prisoner was one of 1,508 people granted amnesty Monday by South Korea's president. · 
Woo Yong-gak, imprisoned for 41 years, was one of 17 men convicted ol' spying for North Korea to be freed under a sweeping amnesty that will takr effect Thursday, tho first anniversary ofPresident Kim Dae-jung's inauguration. 
Woo, 70. has been held in solltarv confinement since being capturnd aboard a North Korca.11 boat dff South Korea's east coast in 1958. 
The amm1sty will also atfoct 7,304 other people convicted of various crimes who IHLVl.l been out of' prison on parole. They will have their civil rights restored or their criminal n!rords erased. 
"Tho amnosty is airn11d at achioving a grand national con• ciliation and giving one-timl" offenders an opportunity to take part in national efforts to revive the economy," Justice Minister Park Sllllg-cheon said. 
Those pardoned include 2,700 pr.oplo convicterl of pilfor­ago and other "minor economic crimes" and fined up to $4.HlO. 
South Korea's batterod economy was bailed out by the lntN·national Monetary Fund in late 1997. Petty crimes ho.ve since increased sharply as unemployment soared to a record 7.9 percent. 
Among those pardoned were several prominent dissidents convicted of making i111~gal visits to North Korea. including Lim Su-kyong, a former college student. Iler 1989 visit to North Korea significantly heightened tension hPtween the two Koreas. 
Excluded from the amnesty was Kim Ilyun-chul, a son of former President Kim Young-sam. because his appeal of a three-year stmttmce for bribery and tax <wasion is p11nding. 
Since taking office nr.arly a year ago, Kim has roloasod 180 political prisoners who signed an outh to obny South Koman laws, including one making it a crinrn to ospouse communism. 
But the 17 convicted spies, l1C'ld for bC'twcen 29 to 41 years, have refused to sign the oath, saying that would vio­late their frnedom of conscicnrn and Pndangm· thdr f'arnilins in the communist North. 
This time, the government decid,id not to demand an oath. The minister indicated the government may allow th!1 17 men to return lo their families in a dC'al with North Korea. "Extraordinary moasur<-is are under st.udy,'' Park said . 
No1th Koroa is demanding the rctum of throe convicted spies who had belln prnviously released from prison und1lr amnesty. 
South Koman otlicials have lloatnd Urn idot1 of 11 possible swap of all 20 for about :iOO surviving South Korean war prisoners believed still held in North Koma since Uw l Y50­53Korean War. 


page 6 
The Observer. NATIONAL NEWS 
Senate debates pay J 

increase for military 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 
Senate pressed ahead 
Monday wilh politically popu­
lar legislation that would give 
the military a 4.8 percent 
across-the-board pay raise 
next Jan. l. despite a plea 
from the Clinton administra­
tion th at Congress lirst finrl the 
money to pay for the increases. 
The bill is the first major 
piece of legislation considered 
by the Senate this year. and 
GOP leaders said tlrny wanted 
to send an important message 
to men and women in the 
ArmP.d Servkes -particularly 
in light of a possible new mili­
tary deployment in Kosovo. 
Prnsident Clinton has pro­
posed a 4.4 percent military 
pay raise. 
In a letter to senators as 
debate began on the Senate 
floor, defonse secretary 
William Cohen said he was 
concerned that the legislation, 
while well-meaning, could end 
up "raising hopes that cannot 
be fulfilled." 
"It could be counterproduc­
tive," Cohen wrote. 
If enacted, the pay raise 
would be the largest for the 
military since 1982. 
The legislation would also 
provide more generous retire­
ment and GI Bill educational 
benefits. The administration 
claims the measure is $7 bil­
lion more expensive over the 
next five years than the $36.5 
billion benefit increase pack­
age proposed by Clinton in his 
fiscal year 2000 budget. 
Cohen cautioned that, with no clear indication of where the extra money might come from, meeting the "unfunded requirement" could mean cuts in other essential military pro­grams. 
Sen. John Warner, R-Va., chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, described the defense secretary's con­cerns as "constructive criti­cism." 
"Nevertheless, we're going to forge ahead," Warner said. "Even if this bill is expensive, the alternative is unaccept­
able." 
The legislation appeared to have wide support in both par­ties and was expected to win Senate approval later this week. However. several Democrats echoed the administration's concerns over the pricetag. 
"Little consideration seems to have been given to how we will pay for this. There could be serious consequences," said Sen. Carl Levin of Michigan, the committee's senior Democrat. He said the measure could become "a promise to the troops that may or may not be possible to redeem." 
Sen. Charles Hobb. D-Va., a sponsor of tho bill, told the Senate that while he was glad the it had taken up the bill, "My concern is that we may be mov­ing tcw quickly." 
Senate majority leader Tnmt l.oti. Tl-Miss., has predicted the 
Wvite fov J'\Jevvs. Stovy JV\eetiV\9: 
Sunday 
5 p.m. SD+-1 basemeV\t 
Senate would pass the "long 
overdue" pay raise within a few 
weeks. llis spokesman, John 
Czwartacki, said the possibility 
that U.S. troops would soon be 
on their way tu Kosovo provid­
ed even more impetus for fast 
passage of the bill. 
The measure was deliberately 
made first on tlrn Si>nate calen­
dar after the impeachment trial 
of Clinton, Czwartacki said. 
"We're back in the mode where 
senators can be senators," he 
said. 
The administration's plan 
calls for a 4.4 percent across­
the-board military pay raise in 
2000 and annual raises of 3.9 
percent over the following five 
years. The Senate bill gives a 
4.8 percent increase starting Jan. 1, then would give the mili­tary an additional raise in each succeeding year of 0.5 percent­age points above the rate of inl1ation. 
The bill would also allow mili­tary personnel to retire at 50 percent pay after 20 years ser­vice -a plan that was in effect prior to 1986. Or, they could accept a $30,000 cash bonus and remain in the current retirement system. 
The legislation would also give service members the option of contributing up to 5 percent of their basic pay to a 401(k) type savings account, to which the services could, under certain circumstances, make matching contributions. 
The Pentagon contends that military personnel are paid as much as 13.5 percent less than civilian personnel with compa­rable jobs in the private sector. 
However, the independent Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, in a report on the measure, suggest­ed this claim was somewhat misleading. "One problem is the overall private-sector workforce differs greatly from the mili­tary's workforce in terms of education, age, sex and other factors." 
It cited a 1994 RAND study based on the 1992 workforce that "found that when com­pared to changes in pay for a subset of the civilian workforce that closely resembles the mili­tary ... there essentially no pay 
gap, at least in 1992." 
Center for the Homeless 
Auction '99 
Saturday, March 6, 1999 5:30-10:00 PM at the South Bend Century Center 
sta.tewide tesisfor high tehool 8iversities. . . . . students. dls(;riminatt~ against ''S't-udents with loarning. dis-those with dvs1exia and other a~ilttfei; .ha,~ 'been ambushed l~a,,r:p,ip.g, s. .. . ",, ., b' · .. j:·e,g~ ·.. '.. t~ Boil.r~,of . 'rhe fe .•,. . ....· Wstiit *laiins · E ... . . . .. fl,"'s ,attorney Sid 
Oregon's r~fnsal to grarittest0 · WML'q.sky, of the California­ipg oxcoptioris to the st-up.outs ba$1ttl~isabilit ·ghts Activists. "What burt!I have done 
.·.·• fe<J.¢. · · · uuros.tuot 
against poopM with .·I1~l~1cal·dts;tl[lJties. .-<il:J{i~jf<:":::,.-._, ··:: :--<. tlf\f\-.,._... 

Today, Tuesday, February 23, 999 
For time and location of meeting, call: 1-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C Sr.Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C. 
All Meetings are private and confidential. 
Tuesday, February 23, ] 999 
ts biased 
lt:.i4.rntUg disabilities like, atten• tion deficit disorder. which impedes a child's ability to focus,, and dyslexia, a neurolog• ic.at~isqrder that impairs the ab!Htyto read and Write. 
The disabilities make it hard for an affected studnnt to pass the state's Certificate of Initial MastQry .tests. which cover a wide range of topics including math and writing. Wolinsky said learning disabled students are at a disadvantago because the•· ti:sts ·are heavily weighted toward spelling and punctua­tion, a weak point f'or the dysJcxic. 

Place your bid today on exciting Notre Dame items including: 
• Notre Dame Honorary Coaching Positions: Become an honorary coach for the Spring Game on April 24, 1999, including the pregame luncheon, meetings, giving an inspirational pregame talk to your team, being on the sidelines and even calling a few select plays under the guidance of the coaching staff. 
Football Fantasy 
Four tickets to the ND vs. Michigan State game on Sept. 18, 1999, with limo service to and from the game (restricted to St. Joseph County), and dinner at the Morris Inn following the game. 
• Armchair Quarterback Attend the Leam mass, have sideline passes and visit the locker room after either the Michigan State, Oklahoma, or USC home game. 
• Trojan War 
Four airplane tickets and four game tickets to the ND vs. USC game on Oct. 16, 1999, with four tickers to the College Football Hall of Fame and a room at rhe South Bend Marriott. 
• 
Dinner with the Presidents Dinner with Father Malloy and Father Beauchamp; Dinner with Father Hesburgh and Father Joyce. 

• 
Season Football Tickets, and Tickets to Away Games 


For more information or to place an Abs_entee Bid call Drew Buscareno at {219) 282-8700, extension 312. 
ABSENTEE BIDDING AVAILABLE 
ticsday, February 23, 1999 The <1bserver • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 7 
CHRIST AS IN 

PRI L­
APR1 L 17, 1999 
Join together with up to seven of your friends to participate in Christmas in April ( CIA). 
CIA is a one day working session during which the South Bend community joins forces with the students, faculty, and staff of Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, and Holy Cross-College to renovate and repair the homes of the needy, elderly, and handicapped residents of a South Bend neighborhood. 
SIGN-UPS 
Wednesday, Feb. 24 & Thursday, Feb.25 11 AM to 2 PM 4 PM to 8 PM 

AT LIBRARY CONCOURSE AND LAFORTUNE I ST FLOOR ELEVATOR LOBBY 
Sign-Ups Also in Dining Halls at Saint Mary's 

~PPROVE0 FOA POSTING 
PUllOATE ~
6imitrz,d ~pot3 '(lvailablrz,
FE8?61999 
-.<NT AC:IVITIESOFFICE 
" "'OF NOTRE DAME 
Questions? Contact BobbyVillareal at ~:, 634-1943 orVillareal.l@nd.edu ._....... 
page 8 The Observer. PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, February 23,_ 1999 
+ Campus Ministry This Week + 







OFFICE OF 
CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hesburgh Library: 631-7800 112 Badin Hall: 
631-5242 Basilica Offices: 631-8463 Web Page: http:l/www.nd.edu/-ministry 
Friday-Saturday, February 26-27, Michiana Christian Service Camp 
Coro Primavera Retreat 
Friday-Sunday, February 26-28, Fatima Retreat Center 
NDE Retreat #55 
_Saturday, February 27, 9:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. 
Registration Deadline February 24 Retreat for Ministers at the Basilica Topic: "Ministry in the Church"_ 
Registration in the Basilica Office, Earth Science Building 
Attention lectors, ushers, coordinators, eucharistic ministers, servers and choir members: You are all invited to participate in this mini-retreat. Our principal speaker will be Beverly Rieger, Director of Liturgy, Fort Wayne-South Bend Diocese. An optional tour of the Basilica will be led by Father Rocca following the retreat. If you plan on attending, please contact Steve Camilleri at 287-5259 or Camilleri.4@nd.edu. 
Sunday, February 28, 2:00-6:00 pm, Center for Continuing Eduation Confirmation Program -A Day of Recollection 
Beginning Monday, Marchl 
103 Hesburgh Library, 112 Badin Hall, or see your rector 
Freshman Retreat #22 (March 26-27) Sign-Up 
Targeted Dorms: Farley, Fisher, Howard, Keenan, Morrissey, O'Neill, Pasquerilla West, St. Edward's, and Walsh 
University Village Volunteers 
Campus Ministry is looking for two students who are interested in doing some volunteer work at University Village, the Married Student Housing Complex on campus. Students are needed to volunteer in a "Parents' Time-Out" program that meets in the community center on Mondays from 9:00 a.m.-11:30 a.m. when the University is in session. This ministry would entail working with two mother's to plan activities for children ages 1-4 and to assist in general child supervision. Please call John or Sylvia Dillon at 631-5242 if interested. 
..........-·-­
... ..--­
fi1csday, h:bruary 23, 1999 The Observer• NEWS page 9 
Cabinet secretaries in contempt 
W,\SIIINGTON 
fiaying h~ w11s fod up with Hes and drilays, n fodernl judge held two Cliutou Cabinet secretaries in rontmnpt of court Monday in a dispute ovor $500 million in Indian trusl funds. Tho judgn said ht• had "nr-ver spen more P!,(rngious misrnndlH'.t'0 by the government. 
lnt0rior senfltHry Brnc·e ll..1bhiU. and Tn~asury Sncrdary Holwrt Hubin must actwpt hlamr. for yrurs of burnaur.ratic l"ool dragging and ''outright fa]S!' sta t1inwnts" conr.nrning a<:r.nss to d(H:unrnnts in n law­suit on tlm trust funds, U.S. dis­trict juclgu Hoy<"P Larnlrnrth wrotr•. 
lntoriCtr's Burnau of lnclin.n /\fTnirs wns supposrd to turn nvnr sUtlcmnnls. ,:hecks und olhPr clor11ment.s on accounts held by livr. lmlians who nre the load plaintiffs iu Iho lawsuit againsl the lntNior and Treasury depa.rtmPnts. The lawsuit allogtis mismann!{ement of :~00,000 Indian account,;;. 
Lamborlh ordorr<l Babbitt. l!uhin and ussistant interior sr.cr<'tary Knvin Gover to pny legal fens and other oxponses that rf'stillt1d from deluys in complying with a Novmnbcr 1996 order to come up with the docunrnnl'i. 
While Cabimit heads are fre­quently named as defendants in civil suits against the govern­nwn t. l.amberth's ruling is tmuswtl in holcling top olndals rnsponsible. The money would com11 from thP agencies, not the m'1n themsf1lvos. 
rn I <)78, a federal judge cited attorney gimoral Griffin Bell for contempt for refusing to turn over FBI ntos to the Socialist Workers Party. And in 1984, a judge held William Huckelshaus. th tin the Environmental Protection Agency administrator, in con­
First~year stude~f fields ofCivil En 
tempt In n disputH ov(1t emis• sions standards for nuclear facilities. The EPA wns not yet a Cabinflt-l1wAI ng1mcy. 
The judgr.'s harshly wordnd ruling took special aim at Babbitt and at Justice 0rpartmont lawyers in the fight over acc(lss to dot>umcnts. 
"The fod1ff1tl government here did not just stub its toe," Lamb,irth wrote. "It abus,1d tho rights of thn plaintiffs to obta.in 
'WHAT IS CLF..AR IS 
THAT HE HAS TOTALLY DEl.f'.GATED HIS RE~SPONSIBIUTY TO OTHERS AND THEV HAVE MISERABLY FAILED TO COMPLY WITH 
THIS COURT'S ORDERS.' 
ROYCE LAMBERTH 
U.S. DISTRICT JUDGE 
those trust documents, and it engagHd in a shocking pattern of deception of tho court." 
"It's the beginning of justice for victims who have been for y1:rnrs abused." said Eloise Cobell, a membor of tho Blackfeet tribe in Montana and one of the account holders suing the government. "This is money that belongs to people, the mttjority of them very poor people." 
"Wo deeply regret the mis­takes we made in this case," said a Joint statement from the lntorior. Troasury and Justice departments. The departments have apologized to Lamberth and "are committed to meeting the judge's concerns," the state• rnent said. 
The throe departments also pledged to address the merits of tlw case. The statement said Rabbitt was determined to flx 
iri 
Sciences. Tour our labs~ Talk to food; we start servfog,at 6:t)0 p.m. 
.... .·--•-.; 

sost 
Tues<f .. 
·)~{£i~,· 
the individual Indian Money trust accounts system and the Clinton admlni.sfration has ohtalnt~d tens of millions of dol­lars and requestod more than $100 million more during fiscal 2000 to do so. 
Only a few documents havo appoarod despite repeated meetings between lawyers and the judg<l. 
On Monday, Lambtirth said a new, court.appointed adminis­trator wlll 1msure tho govern• ment compliM from now on. The judge also warned he may impose fines or other punitive damages if matters don't improve. 
"The court is dHeply disap­pointnd that any litigant would foil to obey orders for produc­tion of documents, and then conceal nnd covl!r up that dis­obedience with outr.ight false statements that the court then relilld up(}n," the Judge wrote. "But whon that litigant is the federal government, the mis­conduct is even more trou­bling." 
Lamberth noted Babbitt's recent decision to remove ,t key ollicial rnsponsjble for handing over the documents, but he said the secratary did not go nearly far enough. . . 
Babbitt's ''inattention to detail and wholesale delegation of authority to individuals who have not served his -or the government's -interest, may cause him future problems with this court if the government misconduct continues," the 
judge wrote...• • 
Lamberth said. he regretted that Rubin became enmeshed fu. the "fiasco" and suffered th-0 tarnish of a civil contempt clta• tion as a result. 
"What is clear is that he has totally delegated his responsi­bility to others and they have miserably failed to comply with thls court's orders," Lamberth wrote. 
¦ SWITZERLAND 
Avalanches kill five 
Associated Press 
EVOLENE 
Five people died in wcathcr­rnlated accidents in western Europe ovrr the wrekcnd, with snowstorms and heavy rain causing avalanches and llood­ing in Swilzorland, France, Germany and Austria. Ten oth­ers were missing. 
Avalanches hit Sunday evening betwcnn Urn Swiss vil­1ages of Evoleno and LCTs Ilauderes. sweeping away scw­eral chalets, Swiss police said. /\ 23-year-old town worker and his 22-yoar-old girlfriend were found <foad. buried in their snowplow. 
"The avalanche rolled inlo the valley like a bulldozer and crushed everything," Valais state emergency ofiicial Charly Wuilloud told reporters. 
Eight pcnplo. two or them children, were missing. Wuilloud said tho chances of Lhem being found alive were slim. The rescur-operation was called off early Monday clue to a high risk of furthnr avalanch­es in the arna, 110 miles from Geneva. 
Some 200 people were evac­uatocl from parts or the Val d'Herens and the upper part of the valley was closed off. Authorities told those who stayed in Evolene not to leave their homes. 
Forecasters said the danger of more avalanches was likely to be high for several days. 
Flooding and landslides were reported throughout northwest Switzerland. A Swiss man who took his canoe out alone Sunday on a tributary of the Rhine River was found drowned south of Zurich. 
10 miles 
~ 
10km 
In Germany, one man foll out of a rubber dinghy Sunday night on the swollen Jngst Hiver in Crailsheirn, nast of Stuttgart and was swept away. Anothor person whose car went in to tlw same l"i vc r Sunday morning twar lleilbronn rcnrninPd missing and was prcsunrnd <!11,uL 
Exports noodl'll two ponds in southwnsl c;ermany in tho hopes of konping I.Im swollen Hhinr. Bivnr from rising, but melting snow and rain was exporl!id to push it to nirord lcwls Ttrnsday. 
Frend, mountain polic1\, aidNI by lwli<"optns and trained dogs, rnsctll'd four hik­11rs Monday, hut worn Sl'ltrch­ing for two more missing in a snowstorm in tlrn Py rmwns Mountains. 
To tho nast. policn tcmpora1·­ily abandonnd a quest to rnarh three oth,~r hikPrs trappn<l for seven days at 9,000 foet in Urn nortlwrn Frnnd1 Alps. 
The threw main hikers, all nxpP.ricnc11d mountaineers, told resew• worknrs thnir posi­tion Sunday ovnning using a cellular phonn. 
They dug a snow cave to pro­tect thcmsclv,is, but officials said a sevnre snow­storm was preventing rescue workers from reaching tlrnm. 
Austria's far westnrn Vorarlbcrg province was cut off Monday because of avalanche warnings, the Austria Press Agency reported. Many villagP-s wnre inaccessi­ble. 
In nnighboring Tirol, 1:rn people had to be evacuat11d from their homes in thn Kauner valley because of avalanche fears. 
ITALV 
AP 
The Gorch Bowl 
Table Football Tournament 
Thursday at 1Opm in the Gorch gan1es room 

Sign-ups this week in the game room 

Prizes to 1s1, 2na, & 3rd Place. No Entry Fee! First 64 Get to Play. 

page 10 The Observer. INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, February 23, 1999 
Turkey warns Greece about Kurds 
Associated Presl' .·· 
UNIT 
Iraqi rt!issires: and British plan 
· the northern no caused some ci and hamp;~t,.ef! "tl';
tions, according/· report ohtalned M 
The Un:tted: Na cerned that cet,nt' confyo.rttati.n~ ··eon.Jti"· 10Qtl diiJiVil:*l~B-: 
areas arii:l hasr movements betw 
_a.ndi~;)p;m:Jo~iiJ
time when most · 
placo,.;ltt·•,: ·-.,, '' 
YJ'Thi•,i,·" -SJ>ory,e¥l<f ~ ., ., ,, ,
~1\xc;o.()rdm;a.J<Ar-­
:µrov1ded a rtJ;-re · effects of the ae tions in Ira.q'Sri southern no.;_tly z pasnwo moiiths.'. 
AIJied vv~t1ttai 
}taqivmiUtary fl­northl}rn arid.so · after the 1991 Qui tect i<utdi.sfr re.ti Muslim groups: 
lti:tq>bas .chall fotcesiri the ~no'• almost dailf Si.nee th~.tJ~i.(,~11'States and Bdtainlatin:cfied aitstrikes in mid-Decembe-f/' r following 11, U.N. reporJtliaf Baghdad had not fully..totps. --•-•-• plied with U.N. weapons inspectors. Ifthe flights contin~ ue, Itaq has threat~ned to attack Turkey, Kuwait a11d Saudi Arabia. · · 
¦ StmAN 
Rebels ready to secede to end 16-year civil war 
Associated Press El-Bashir has said before 
that he is willing to give south­
KHARTOUM erners a chance to vote on 
Sudan's president signaled their future -and that the Mondav that he is ready to government would try to per­accept the secession of south­suade them to stay as part of ern provinces if that would end Sudan. the country's 16-year-old civil Southern rebels have been war. fighting since 1983 for more 
But Omar el-Bashir stressed autonomy for the south's that his Islamic government largely Christian and animist will continue efforts to main­population from the Islamic tain the unity of the African north. More than 1.9 million country. people have died in the fight­
His comments. made in an ing and resulting famines. 
interview with a Qatar televi­Under a peace agreement sion station, were reported signed with seven breakaway Sunday by state-run television. rebel factions in 1997, the gov­A number of state-run newspa· ernment committed itself to pers carried excerpts. holding a referendum in four 
"The possibilities of unity years so southerners can vote stand, as do the possibilities of on whether they want to separation," el-Bashir was remain part of Sudan or quoted as saying. secede. 
"But the option of separation That pledge also was repeat­with peace is better than that ed in a new constitution adopt­of unity with the continuation ed last June in a national ref­with war," he added. erendum. 

HAPP~ 
~sJ®li 
Birthday Stacey ! 
Love, Eileen, Sarah. Natalie, & Jess 
Associated Press 
ANKARA 
Turkey asserted Monday it has a "right to self-defense" if Greece provides support to separatist Kurds -a thinly veiled threat of military force against its neighbor and rival. 
The warning came as a Turkish newspaper reported that imprisoned rebel warlord Abdullah Ocalan had told interrogators that Greflce gave his fighters weapons and training, daims (;rccce has rejected in the past. 
Ocalan, captured in Kenya a wAek ago, is 
Turkey's pre­<l om in ant Iy Kurdish south­east that has claimed an estimated 
37.000 lives. He could face the dAath penalty. 
A judge is expected to bring formal charges against Ocalan on Tuesday, after the end of the seven-day period in which a suspect can be held without charges. 
The hearing, expected in a state security court at the island prison where Ocalan is being held, would be closed to the press and the public. 
Ocalan has not had access to an attorney, which has drawn criticism from international human rights groups. On Monday, a group of 15 lawyers -including several from Turkey's independent Human Bights Association -told the court they were prepared to represent him. 
"We are members of' a 
human rights organization and believe that everyone has the right to a defense," said one of the lawyers, Eren Keskin. 
She said Ocalan's family had asked the lawyers to defend him. 
The Ocalan affair has inflamed tensions between Greece and Turkey, both members of NATO but also neighboring rivals that have nearly gone to war several times over territorial disputes. 
President Suleyman Demirel warned Greece on Monday that assistance to Ocalan 's 
expected to 
examined stand trial for rnpeatr.dly waging a near­by interna­ly 15-year tional insurrection in observors, 


who were unable to substanti­ate charges that it sorvNI as a military training center for the PKK. 
(;re e c e, h owe ve r, 
was caught 
Kurdistan Workers Party, or red-banded sheltering Ocalan. PKK, could trigger a military Just prior to his arrest Im was response. staying at the Greek ambas­
"If Greece chooses to contin-sador's residonce in Nairobi. ue with its illegal actions, we and he had spent some days in retain our right to take the Greoce before that. necessary precautions for our Turknv has insisted that right to self-defense," the Ocalan's.trial will Im fair and semi-official Anatolia news told outsiders not to interfern. agency quoted him as On Monday, the European saying during a visit to Manila. Union urged Turkey to strictly 
The national daily llurriyet safoguard Oculan's rights. claimed Ocalan had told inter-Ocalan complained of !mart rogators that Greece provided troubln when he went to Italy the PKK with weapons and last fall seeking asylum, but training at a U.N. refugee cen-doctors found nothing. ter east of Athens in Lavrion, Turkey's prime minister told Greece, which mostly houses reporters Monday th11rn was a Kurds. thren-mnmlrnr team of doc­
"They even gavo us arms tors, led by a cardiologist, on and rockets. Greek officers the prison island. 
lntemational Student Affairs 204 LaFortune Center 219-631-3824 
02/23 Tues. New Hammes Book Store 
02/23Tues. Cushing Auditorium 02/24Wed. Montgomery Theater 
02/25 Thurs. DeBartolo Hall Rm 119 
02/23 Tues. Cushing Auditorium 02/26 Fri. Montgomery Theater Ctr For Social Concerns 
02/26 Fri. Montgomery Theater 
02/26 Fri. Ctr for Social Concerns 
gave guerrilla training and explosives training to our mili­tants," the newspaper quoted Ocalan as saying. 
It did not say how it had obtained tho statements, and the account could not be inde­pendently verified. 
Turkey has frequently alleged in the past that Greece provides military backing to the rebels. 
Therr, was no immediate response to the latest allega­tions in Greece, where Monday was a public holiday. 
In response to past Turkish allegations, the Lavrion camp has boPn 
ihe UJ011tl Convetues at .Notl'e Dame 
ltt a week or 
fashion, film, iood, literature, sports, talent 
3:30pm 
8:00pm 8:00pm 
7:00pm 
7:00pm 2:00pm 6:00pm 
3:00pm 
6:00pm 
02127 Sat Lafortune Ballroom 7:00pm 
INTERNATIONAL BOOK FAIR READINGS 
FOREIGN FILM FESTIVAL 
IL Postino House ofAngels 
DOCUMENT ARY ON ARAB CULTURE 
The Message 
ND UNITED MUSLIM ASSOCIATION BOOK SALE 
LECTURE-Democracy and Human Rights in Islam-Dr. Assad Bussool 
INTERNATIONAL FOOD BAZAAR 
INTERNATIONAL FESTIVAL 
TALENT & FASHION SHOW 
Sponsored by the Asian International Society, Chinese Friendship Association, India Association of 
Notre Dame, International Student Organization, Muslim Students Association, Notre Dame United 
Muslim Association, and the Office of International Student Affairs. 
Tuesday. r:ebruary 23, t 999 The Observer• GOVERNMENT NEWS page 11
-'--------------------------------------
Annan pressing U.S. to pay dues 
UNITED Ni\TIONS 
With low oxpoctations, secrn­tary g1ml'ral Kofi Annan heacls to Washington on Tuesday ln prnss the Unitncl Statns to pay its 11101·n than $1 billion in arrears to tlw linitnd Nations. 
lJ.N. oflicials said Monday that Annan·s trip is mosUy to got to know tlw 1ww Co11).lrt1ssinnal lnarl!1rship rnspo11sih!t1 l'or pay­ment -and llH1rc is liLtlo hopn that Washington will mako any ovi1rt11n1s lo tackll' tlw 11.N. debt this wrn1k. 
If 1h11 Unitml Stnt11s rlm1s1l't pay about $'.MO million by tlw 1•nrt of I1)CJ<J, it could losn its vohi in thP G<irwrul Assmnbly next ynar ­an nmbarrassment Washington narrowly avoided this year, diplomats said. 
Annan is schPdultid to meet Tuesday with Senato majority l11ad1ir Tront Lott as well as other l<iaders. 
On Wt1dnesday, Annan has a privaln lunch scheduled with sccrdary or state Madeleine Albright in lalks likely to he dominated by Iraq, Kosovo and Lihya. 
Congrnss has hold up pny­nwnts of U.N. rfohts lbr ynnrs to dnrnaml a rnduclion in the U.S. assnssmont and streamlining of' tho world organization. Annan claims hn has largely comn 
through with the demanded mforms. 
Congress passed legislation last year that would have paid off much or the debt, but President Bill Clinton vetoed it because it contained what he said were unrelatod anti-abor­tion restrictions. 
C:ongross finally approved about $240 million in 1998, enough to koop the United States' General /\ssmnhlv vote. But tliis year, t.hn miiiimum Washington must pay to keop its votn is an ostirnatud S340 millfon which will he even tougher to comfl up wit.h. diplomats said, spoaking on condition of anonymity. 
Come to a PLS orientation meeting February 23, at 6:30 in 117 DeBartolo and find out why 

was selected as an 11 Outstanding example of the Best in 
American Higher Education" 
We are now accepting applications for its entering Sophomore Class. Applications are now available in 215 O'Shaughnessy. Application deadline is April 5. 
For more information come to the orientation meeting or check out our web site at: 
www.nd.edu/-pls 

I 9 ') 9 
Pulliarn Journalisn1 Fellowships 
Graduating college seniors arc invited to apply for the 26th annual Pulliam Journalism Fellowships. We will grant IO-week summer intem­.,,1,ips lo ~0 journalism or lihcral m1s 1m~jors in the August 1998-June 1999 graduat111g classes. 
Previous internship or pat1-limc experience at a llC\\spaper is desired, or otbcr demonstration of writing and rep011ing ability. Those who go 
through the Fellowships often find new professional opportunities open­
ing up at other newspapers during and after the program. Winners will receive a $5.250 stipend and will work at either The lnditmapolis Srar and The /11dia1101Jo/is News or The Ari:,ona Rep11h/ic. Opportunities for online training are availahlc, along with reporting (.'\f)L'ricncc at our major llll'tropolitan <.laily newspapers. 
\11 l·ntrics mus1 he rostmarked by March I. 1999. Successful appli­L·;111h '"II he notified on or before April I and will he asked to respond lllllllL'diah:ly with a letter of intent, al which time one-third of the cash gr.int will he mailed to the Fellow. 
To rcqucsl an application packet, visit our Wl'11 -..ill', c 11wil u-.. or write: 

RussL·II n Pulliam 
Pulliam l·l'llowships Director The Indianapolis News Web site: W\\w,stamc"'s com/pjf P.O. Box 145 E-mail: pulliarn(/l)stamcws.com 
Indianapolis, IN 46206-0145 
Agencies earn C+ on Y2K readiness 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Fodera] agcnr.ies arc belatedly rnsponding to the Year 2000 cornp11tP.r problem, and some of the biggest departments, includ­ing Defonsn and State. are still lagging behind, a !louse nxptirt said Monday. 
Agencies, 
"am finally getting around in tho last year to really putting some effort into this," Rep. St11phen !lorn, ll­

Calil'., said in releasing his 
RR!'. CoNS'f'ANCR MOIIRUA
sBventh quarterly "report card" on tho status of emJrts to what is known as tho "Y2K" problem. 
Horn. who heads thn !louse subcommittn<' on governmnnt 
managcrrwnL informal.ion and tochnology, gavo the 24 agnncios ho has l'ollownd an ovnrall gradP or "C+." That's up from the "D" grade handed down in his survny last Novmnber. 
"At lnast we know thnrc is rncognition that 'Y2K' is not a nPW cnrnal," said !fop. Constance Mornlla, H-'.'vld., who has workml to draw attention to the problem. 
President Clinton has given most fndoral agencins until March :~ 1 to upgrade their com­puters so thorn will not lw br,•ak­downs in basic public snrvices on Jan. I, 2000. Most older comput­nrs usn only two digits to mark keep track ol' what y1iar it is. and could confuse 2000 with the year 1900 at the turn of the cnnlury, causing malfunctions and shu·t­downs. 
John Koskinen, head of the president's Year 2000 Council, said he was pleased by llorn's latest assessment. Horn. Koskinen said, "has complained I 
was overoptimistic, but when the dust gets settlnd we'll find that I was morn right than Im was, and I'm dclightnd with that." 
Koskinon and llorn agrr,nd that about rJo pnrcnnt of fodnral computBr systems will ho rnady by thn March 31 deadlirrn and Koskinon said critical trans­portation, dcliinsn and h<melits pro­grams will'ATLEAST be fixnd WPII 
WE KNOW 
in advance of tho
THERE IS RECOG­
ynarnnd. "I 
NITION THAT 
think the 
'Y2K' IS NOT A p u h I i c should hf\ 
NEW CEREAL.' 
satisfind 
that tlrn risk 
is not com­
ing from
R-MIJ. 
foderal sys-
tn ms." lw 
said. 
Horn gavn 11 agnncins, including the Social Security Administration and thn VPtcrans Affairs Departmnnt, nith n r a n "A " o r "A-" for installing sof'twarn that is Y2K­com pliant. lln praised the Energy and Justice dnpartrnents for making major strides since Lim last rnport. 
But he said thrne departnrnnts -I lnalth and I luman Services, Agrirulturn and D<11'Pnsn ­wnw still in tlw "C" catngory and thre1• otlwrs -StatP, Transportation and thP :\gPrH·y of' lntPrnational l)pvnlnpnwnt ­got failing grad1·s. I.Pd by l)pf'PllSP, thosP six account !'or morP than 50 pPrcPnt of 1111' mission-critical computnr sys­tmns in tlrn f'PdPrnl govPrnl!lnnt. 
PPntagon spoknswoman Susan llansnn said thny'vp rnpairnd more than 80 p1ffcPnt of thPir systnms and ,ixpnct to bP fully rc>ady at tlw 1md of tlw year. "lfwn don't havn a systnm fixed wn will have fully llnslwd­out contingnncy plan;, Wn will be abln to carry out our nation­al security rPSJ;onsibilities." 
Work for us. Earn s001e 01oney. Be a Wire Editor. Call Ti01 at 1-5323 if you are interested in applying. 
VIEWPOINT 
page l2----------------------Tuesday, February 23, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
NmHL DAMI. Ornct.: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. 1:-,,/ 46556 (2!9) 631-7471 S,11r,;T MAi-v\ OFIICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, 1:-J 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
flllTOR-JN-CHlH I leather Cocks MANAGf,aG 1itmn1t BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Rcinrhalcr Kyle Carlrn 
ASSISTAl\,. MANA(ifN(; Enm rn i k:ulit:r MacKc:n,.ie 
NEWS EmTOR ................. , .... Michelle Krnpa AnVElrt1SlNG MANAGfR...............~........ Bryan Lutz V11'WrOINT Eorroa . . .. .......Ed,rnrdo Llull An Dcsfl,N MAN.C,l:R .......................lll'Clt lluclai SPORTS flllTOR. ..... KJd1lccn Lope-z SY'iTFMS MANAGER.. ... ,Michael Brorriller SCFNF E111TOR~ .. ..... S,rroh Dyl;ig CONTROi.i t:I:? •.•... . . ............... D.ivc Rogcro 
Kri.,ti Klitsch Wm AnMJNISTRATOR.. , .......Allison Krilla SA1r,tr M,\Jt'/S EDITOR . ..M. \h.urnon Rv,111 GRAl1H1Cli: 1£.mTOlt ..... ,........................ Pek Cllcl!a r,m ro Em rnn .. . ........... K-:vin D.:llu111 
rhc-()h,<.·1vc1 j:, 1iw ind~fh:ndcn1 I\L'W~p;ip,··r r,u\ilislii..,.l lw du: \E"Utlcrw, nl du: Univl·rsi(y or Nom· Dame (hi l.:11. and 
i..:.1in1 ~L1ry·~ CnlJr.,-gc, It duL·~ 1w1 tw,-,::o.\,trl!y 1clkl.'.1 th,: pulici,·:-. of th!..' uJmini~tn.:1tin11 of eith\.·r i1v,1in1tinn. lh-.: n,w., i~ 
rcpnrt,:,,l .1, .1'.LUf.1lt"ly :rnd objc-ctivrl_1• .,,. p,1,~ihlc. UnMt,nr.:,I t."c!it,lri,il~ rqn~·scnt du-: n•)i11io11 of tht: ril;\Jnrit;' of the 
Fdnnr•in-Chi,._{ \l.m;1gint, l·~ditor, .J\ ....,.1~t;rnl 'i,1:1rugini,: Edi1N :ind (h-r,urmcnt dttiH~ ( '.om11wnt.1rie~. l~·ncn Jml 
..:0lumm ftF1;.'M:1U rlK Vtl'wi.: ()f rbc.· .nuhm,. ;ind nnt !l('Cl""s:,ri.lr thn,L' nfThe-()h~•rv~r. Vit•v:pnir11 '-Jlacc h, ~1vaihhlt• tn .111 
mcrnbt"r, c1f cht· ~um: f):i,n,e/1.ri,dnt '.,fary·~ co!llmuniry .ind w ,di rt";lden. Tht-frt'l' i--..;pn.'l>~ion ur v,1':'ing npinio1,, 
chrm1gh lencr\ 11-enc11ltr,lb"r'J. 
Contacting The Observer 
E.di1or-in-Chid G.~ l.,1542 Hu!oh\~\S Office 6:ll-5~11 M.1n.1t,i11g Fdiwr/A.,i.fqa1it ME G3l•4541 Adve,rrh:ing (r.l I-6<J0018R40 NewslPlwrn r,.. l-C:.52.) Svstem,. 6J J.8R.l9 Spnrr, (,.J!.454.l Fox r,51.c,n7 Scene/Sainr M:rn•', 6.J\.4540 Vkwpoinr E-Mail Virwpoinr. l (!'.::>nd.t":Jn Ila,· Fdnor/Vie";Poinr . t\l1•5.l05 Ad F.-Mail oh,ervcr@ld,1!"\\lin.cc.nd.e-d11 Office Man:tger/(iencr:tl Intnrm,nion 6.31~7471 Nt:w~ E·M,iil oh"r:rvcr.ohsnew'\, I@11J.ed11 
¦ NOT PEACE, Bur THE Swm:rn 
The Catholic Restoration of Notre Dame 
While reading the latest filth to emanate from the leftward direction of' campus last week, I began to daydream ... 
It was a bright day. and thn r.ampus 
Sean Vinck 
bustled with activity. ft had bem1 a busy few days. The University of Notre Dame had experiencnd drastic change. It had started latn onP. night when a new regime suddenly took hold of power in llaycs­
llealv. With their mission to affect what they ·called "tlrn Catholic Hestoration of Notre Dame." these new administrators set to work immediately. 
The next morning, conversation was abuzz with chattering about the new cam­pus hierarchy, the conversations fed by a steady stream of rumors from oflices and dorm rooms all over campus. By 11 a.m., a new edition of The Observer appeared, but it looked very strange. Instead of the usual headlines, there appeared a decree from the new administration, typP.d in bold, deliberate Times New Homan font on the Front PagP.. 
The decree mandated that henceforth, any student, faculty member or employee convicted by a standard of reasonable evi­dence to be guilty of any deed, word or thought contrary to the salvific mission of the Roman Catholic Church would be immediately expelled or terminated. This impressive document said also that new University President-for-life Bishop Fabian Bruskewitz would have final authority on any matters concerning the Catholicity of the Institution. 
Reaction was decidedly mixed. On the one hand, the Right Reason crowd was deeply enthused over the new policy. Indeed. they were spotted standing out­side of the recently anathematized and shut-down Worrie11's Resource Center, a haven of abortionist propaganda, shouting with glee. "Our God reigns! Our God reigns!" In contrast. though, the Oum.each ND crowd and their minions were pre­dictably inr.fmsed. They gathered at a spe­cial meeting in O'ShaughnPssy JI all to plot strategy to deal with the new administra­tion they immediately dubbed "right wing bigots." 
The menting was raucous indeed. All of the left wing constituencies werf' repre­sented: the feminist'>. 
that! l\ot only had homosexuality been utterly prohibited, but fornication and all forms of sexual licentiousness had been banned with equal determination and severity. 
* * * * 
As the O'Shag meeting was brought to some order, a diminutive woman ascend­ed to the front of the room to make an impassioned speed1. Iler eyes wet with tears or anger and hate, she screeclrnd "we can't let these fascists take away our FREEDOMS!" lier voice reached a high 
pitched crescendo that 
the peaceniks, the gen­was greeted with thun­der studins contingent, derous applause by the 
'NOT ONLY HAD HOMOSEXU· 
tlrn "Progressive leftist malcontents litter­
AUTY BEEN UTTERLY PRO-
Student Alliance" and ing that room in ()'Shag. of course. a large por­HIBITED, BUf FORNICATION AND But, just as the dis­
tion of the theology All FORMS OF SEXUAL UCEN· gruntled young woman had finished her pout,
department. These TIOUSNESS HAD BEEN BANNED professors in the theol-and began to return to ogy department had WITI-1 EQUAL DETERMINATION her seat in the back of 
much to fear. The new AND SEVERITY.' university president, Bishop Bruskewitz, was the consummate defensor fidei. They knew he would not tolerate any deviance from orthodoxy. The professors intuitively perceived that their jobs were in great danger. That perception was correct. 
Even though the professorial contingent of"theologians," "gender studies people (?)" and others were trembling with the mixed emotions of anger, fear, and confu­sion, it was the homosexual organization that was most visibly shaken. Since the new administration had come to power, homosexuality had been criminalized within the confines of the municipality of Notre Dame; this objective disorder was recognized as such by the University, and any form of affiliation with the "gay" movement was prohibited. This new regu­lation was sure to be strictly enforced by Bishop Bruskewitz and the recently deployed Indiana National Guard, who had been called out by Governor O'Bannon to assist in the Catholic Restoration. However, the new policy on sexual morality struck even farther than the room, the National 
Guardsmen, accompa­
nied by a large contin­
gent of Priests dressed in severe Black 
Cassocks busted through the door. The 
leftist contingent was ordered to cease ,and desist by the express command of the 
University President, acting at the behest 
of God and his church. Predictably. the 
left-wingers erupted in howls of indigna­
tion. There were nose-ringed women 
shrieking with sheer rage. Almost every 
member of the Gender Studies contingent 
had a purple face! Some of the hearty 
members of the "Progressive Student 
Alliance" (about six) chained themselves 
to the desks, in a deliberate act of defi­
ance. 
The protestations of the left-wingers 
presented little challenge to the 
Guardsmen and their priestly allies. The 
leftists were informed that if they failed to 
disperse in an orderly and peaceful fash­
ion within five minutes, that they would 
be permanently expelled from the 
University, whethr~r they were student, 
faculty or statT. 
Not being the most courageous souls in 
the world, they subsequently complind and left in what might be described as an orderly, but disheveled fashion. 
* * * * 
Things quieted down aftPr a while. Contrasting the Bruskewitz administration with the Malloy regime, though, was a study of direct opposites. In thrne months since the beginning of tlrn restoration, 1/3 of the faculty had either resigned or been expelh\d. A good IO percent of' the student body had been f'orr.ed to leave due to the stri~gent new alcohol and drug policy dubbed "draconian" by Elitist University Presidents from Ilarvard and Dartmouth. Sexuality, in thn post-modern sense of tlrn tnrm. had been firmly suppressed. Many books in the library had been rPmovnd for their lascivious content. Mass attendancP was compulsory. The chapels and church­es were overflowing, and tlw confessional lines grew ever longer. When asked whether he felt he was limiting student's personal "freedom, libnration and expres­sion" by his criminalization of' immorality, President Bruskewitz simply laughnd. 
* * * * 
Unfortunately. it was at that happy juncture that I awoke from my fantasiz­ing. 
The preceding was simply a musing. It is a picture of what leftists would have us believe would happen if' Notre Dame were to implement Ex Corde Ecclesiae. Just as my little dream is in many ways ludicrous in its sheer conception, so is the picture of doom that lefrisL<; paint when discussing Ex Corde, an impressive and necessary plan for the future of Catholic Universities. 
Sean Vinck is a sophomore PLS major. In deference to Cardinal Evans, he wishes you to know that the preceding was pure­ly satirical, that he expects none ofthose things to happen and that he is a perfect­ly rational, sane and sensitive person. His column appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces.~arily those ofThe Observer. 
¦ DOONESBURY 
-----, 
JtllENA~KeP 
IIJJl5NRB1,(/(J(Jtp 
8B'llJU!i;/N6NIK£. 
,9lCJl,l7liiS INVl!if­NA>t JCl<'tltW 
J/PTtAl/0-(e/? 
/ AG,4/N,N" 
-~A 
:rWN'rJJ&,IIMJ= 
7HI§/ If£ JlET 8ti1ulAN!iN­71/?& YeAR 6/JT~ T!Nr3 R!;t/17/ FOl{H/9MA· JlSTY!? ll!!i/T/ 
\ 
l-l 7H& IA80R 
,ALL 
'eFAC/UlY 
~lH/3 NA6EM6NT · 'ININ5­
GARRY TRUDEAU 
¦ 0.UOTE OF THE DAY 
'Awoman drove me to 
drink and I never even had the courtesy to thank her.' 
-W.C. Fields 
5HAt,,lI Rb­
lNstAT&'lH& OPPl<eSS!Vc: O:WPmON5i­
/ /JOSS.? 
VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, February 23, 1999 ------------------os~ERVER -------------------------page 13 
¦ MtSERERE MEI, Drns ¦ LETTER TO THE EDITOR ¦ UNIVERSITY OF NORTH DAKOTA 

The Lenten 
Sacrifice 
A short ti11111 ago thn Church br1gan thn ,mllson or L,~nt. :Vlnsl of us Catholics celnlmtt('d tlw lirst day with tlw oxtnrior sig11 of ashos, calling to mind our haptismal vows and tlm dust that. is our sinf'ulnl'ss. 
Nathaniel Hannan 
w,, lww: s1,v,•1·11l l.,mtflll practices, but in this 11rti­rh' I'd likl' lo 1·0111'.l'lltral11 upnn two of tlmm: giving sonwthing up and Llw Christian trndilion ol' l'asting. 
( ;iving som1•thing up for I.Pnt is nne of tlrn most misunderstood prarlicHs of tlrn Church. Wn hear oaths lo giw up Cokt~. buhblo gum, fatly foods, TV aml 111111wrous otfoir plimsun•s. Why do we do this t.o omsdvcs't Why down botlrnr with this antiquated custom wlwn we could Im Pnjoying lifo much morn without it'? Tho other practice, fasting on Fridays, sm•ms Pqually pointh'ss. Why on mtrlh fast'? Whal dol's il accomplish'? It d<wsri'l incite social c!mng<!. aid in sluclying, sicl'ping, !Imming or anything nlsl' 
'TlIE POINT OF OUR SELF-DEPRIVATION IS IN A 
WAY SELF-IMPROVEMENT, BUf NOT IN THE 
SENSE THAT ABSTAINING FROM CHOCOLATE WILL 
MAKE LIS THINNER. RATHER WE ARE IMPROVED BY 
WHAT WE ARE INVITED TO BE ATTENTIVE TO. 
fASTING AND GIVlNG llllNGS UP ARE IN A WAY 
MEANT TO BE A BODILY VERSION OF STRING TIED 
AROllNO ONE'S ANGER.' 
that :rnmns btmdicial. Both of thnse practicns sncm gi•arml to drag us down and just decrcasn the enjoy­ment that we !ind in life. 
Without a knowledge and awanmess of what tlwse practicns am inlenclNI for, that is exactly what tlwy do -drag us down and prevent our feeling good. lloth of these prat:ticns have, however, a high­er purposn than making our roommates cranky and our stomachs growl. Their purpose lies in a simple and l'asy awareness. y1~t onn which is very oftnn 1wglncted -an awanmnss of God. The point of our self-deprivation is in a way snlf'-improvement. but not in tlw snnst! that abstaining l'rom chocolate will make 11s lhinnnr. Halher wn arc improved by what wr, am invited to bn attnntiV<i tu. Fasting and giving things up nm in a way meant to be a bodily version ofstring tind around nne's linger. 
Whernwl'r we hankt\r for what we havc given up or for that honcyod ham, wo are to take thal momnnl to rais11 our awareness to thoughl'i of God, and so ht1Iµ to accomplish the purpose of Lent by thinking of Ilim in a particulm· way. 
I.Pnt is associated heavily with themes of sin and rnpt>ntancn. By bPing att1mtive to God, we am more inclined to rnmcmber Lhese Lnnten themes and also to rl'memb.-r what (;od has done for us, the art which Wt! will celnbrat11 al the end of the 40 days ­Urn crucifixion and rnsurroction. In our att(mtiveness w1i bocnnrn morn grateful for Christ's sacrifice and so participatf' morn fully, moru meaningfully in the Eastm· mystery. Thal mystery is precisely related to sin and rnpnntance becausn it correclr; the former and makm; possible the latt<!r. 
Attnntivnnnss to God is something that we often miss in our busy college schedules. This season invites us particularly to cntm into that which we so often discard and ignoro. thu fulfillment of our bap­t.ism and the promise of agns. This is what fa.sting is for -not lo bolster a political agenda, not tu make otlwrs foel bad. but as a reminder to give to God what Ile is due: our thought.-; and indocd our very selvos. 
Nathaniel /Iannan is freshman joint major in the­olo_qy and philosophy. lie can be reached via e-mail al l/anna11.3@nd.edu. llis column will start appear­ing every other Wednesday beginning ne:r:t week. 
'/11e view.~ express<'d in this c:olumn are those of lhe arttlwr and nol necc!ssarily those ofThe 01,.•wrvcfr. 
Special Considerations 
For Non­
Catholics? 
I am not. Catholic. I chose to conw to this great university tu receive a good educational and life experience. Notre Dame has been very good to me and I have rnspect for everything that Notre Dame stands !'or, including thn teachings of the Cat.holir, Church. I rnspcct the rights and practices of all Catholics and as a Christian, I agrne with many of them. I feel that I have a uniqun perspective, as I am among thp, 12-1rnrccnt minority on campus that does not practicQ Catholicism nor observe the practice of Li-mt. I was v1>ry disappointed to see thut lhe dining halls on campus did not provide mnal for Ash Wnd1rnsday nor on Friday and I would like thn administration Lo think of the minority on campus and their rights. 
The practice of Lnnt is very fasf:inating to me and I often ask my Catholic friends what it stands for and tho significance of it. To my sur­prise. I rarely receive thf': same answer from any two people. Some say it is a personal sacri­lico. others say it is giving something for Christ and for ourselvns, still others are confused with the meaning entirely, yet they practice it anyway. !tis as if all the Catholics on this cam­pus are all reading from tlrn same book. but everyone is on a different page. 
The mission statement of this University says that they will not discriminate based upon "racn, gender, or religion." I feel that not pro­viding meat in the dining hall on Fridays is a direct violation of this mission statement. People will argue by saying, "You chose to go to this school, and it is a private, Catholic uni­versity," but I didn't read anywhere in the brochure that meat would not be provided and I would be ultimately forced to assimilate to the Catholic practice of Lent. Parietals were in the brochure and complaints and marches against that rule have been rightly struck down. I do not agree with that rule either but at least it was spelled out for me before I applied. 
From my perspective, the administration is showing the Catholic student body that they plainly do not trust them. By not providing any meal in the dining halls, the entire process of free will and decision-making is taken out of the equation. The administration gives you no opportunity to test your faith; they are treating students like children. But I do not observe Lent, and my choice is taken, too. 
Father Malloy on several occasions has stat­ed that Notre Dame welcomes all faiths and all people, but the practice of the dining halls does not follow that statement. Many of my Catholic l'riends agree that I should have the right to eat meat if I want to and they arc surprised that the dining halls do not offer any. This year, Burger King and the Huddle have been courte­ous in continuing to offer meat products on Lenten Fridays. People are telling me that I can just go there if I so desire but Burger King will cost me either cash or flex points that I would rather spend later in the semester. Why should I have to go to Burger King just to get a ham­burger when the NOH normally provides ham­burgers for me at no extra charge? 
Many other Catholic schools including Boston College, Georgetown and the University of San Oiego all provide selected meat entrees in their dining halls on Lenten Friday. They provide rnoslly_ fish or vegetable meals, but the choice is there for non-Catholics. Why doesn't Notre Dame's minority deserve the same right? I want to reiterate that I respect the season of Lent and the principle ideas ol' it. I don't pre­tend to know all about Lent but I feel if Notre Dame truly believes in its commitment to serve every student. they should offer a small section of meat entrnes on Lenten Fridays. All I ask is one small corner in the dining halls, a small selection for an equally smaller selection of students. Non-Catholics can then have the choices they deserve and Catholics can see first hand what they arc giving up and not have to feel like their mother put thri cookie jar in the top cupboard and out of their reach. 
Eric Yuva 
Sophomore February 2 I , 1999 
Republicans Need to Shift Scope 

GRAND FOHKS, N.D. 
After several embarrassing years and $40 million of your money, the GOP has produced nothing but an eye­sore of a chapter in American history. 
They have some serious making up to do. 
Kenneth Starr's efforts and those of the Hcpublican party have accomplished three things. They have alienated the American public, embarrassed an American family, and made a mockery of a country that already has rapidly declining international popu­
larity. 
This leaves them in precarious position, especially 
with an election year around tho corner. 
Right now, polls seem to show that the public views them as the aggressors. Most of the blame for this impeachment fiasco has fallen on them, regardless of the actions of the President. People didn't care whether Clinton was right or wrong so much as they wanted to be done with this whole thing. 
Granted, if the GOP had simply dropped the issue after they made it an issue, they would have looked just as bad, but the reality of public opinion is that a lot of people sec the GOP as vindictive, stubborn, and just plain wrong. Thal needs to change very soon if they hope to be successful in the next round of elec­tions. 
The party's platform needs to move more towards 
the center and, as Connecticut Governor .John Howland 
(H) said, they need to stop listnning to the rnligious right. 
Another problem, now that their impeachment attempt has failed publicly and legally, is internal bick­ering. There has been a 11ood Republicans blaming Republicans for the party's failure and a party that is berating itself will not win elections. 
"The good news is ... rich people and businesses still like us," Howland said in Tho Now York Times. "But that's about it." 
The GOP needs to reunite and do some serious plat­form restructuring if they hope lo win elections any time soon. 
The preceding column was an editorial originally from the staff of the Dakota Student at the University ofNorth Dakota. It has been reprinted here courtesy of the U-Wire. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

O
THE 
Tuesday, February 23, l 99~ 
BSERVER 

By LOUBEL CRUZ receive the list that includes the best Assiscanr Scene Ediwr matches from within their class, and for ------------------"11,n additional dollar, they can buy the list 
Wlwn asked about the dating sc<Hrn on the Notre Dame campus, students oftP.n reply -"What dating scenn?" 
Many students believe finding a date for a Saturday night at Nutrn Dame is harder than most organic eh1rn1istry exams, and finding love is even more impossible. Meeting Mr. or Ms. Hight is considered extremely difficult in a col­lege environment with academic pres­sure and no co-ed residence halls. 
Well, student government is trying to help tlw student body find that perfect somebody by sponsoring the Irish Love Connection. Beginning Thursday, stu­dents ran fill out questionnaires to find their best matches on campus. 
"W1-1 wanted to provide something fun and different for students." said Alicia Coronas, nx<>cutive coordinator of Stud1rnt l.ifo. "We had originally hoped to have this done for Valentine's Day, but we thought it would still be worth doing it in March." 
"We would never suggest that ND needed help in the social scene, but we just thought the Irish Love Connection could be just the thing to rekindle the love that seems tu be frozen from the harsh winter," said Brooke Glessing, memlrnr of the Campus Unity Committee. 

The Irish Lnvfi Connection is the name for a computer data match survny. Each student fills out a survev which will be av a i I a b I e i n bo tIr din\ n g h a\ Is an d Lafortune Student Center. The survey asks questions ranging from opinions about sports to kissing habits. By filling out the survey, the sponsoring company will put the answers through a "compati­bility test" and send the results back. 
Students can return Urn survey with no commitment to buy the results and can receive results sometime after spring break. For one dollar, a student can 
of best match1is from the remaining stu­dent bodv. 
Stude11t Government stresses the importance of' tho student's role in the success of this event. 
"This will only work if there is a lot of' student participation," said Coronas. 
There is no obligation to buy the results when taking the survey. The hope is to receive as much participation as possible to have the best results possible. 
"We encourage everyone to fill out a survey so that you can be paired up with the right people," said Glessing. 
All of the personal answers filled in the questionnaire remain confidential and will not be released to any other stu­dents. 
"All of the students' responses will be kept confidential, as a computer service does all of the matching," said Coronas. 
Students should not believe they are guaranteed to find their right mate by participating in the Love Connection. The goal purpose of the event is give some fun and excitement onto campus. 
"All in all, this is purely for fun," said Glessing. "But who knows'? Maybe your love is right around the corner and the connection will just bring you together." 
Surveys will be available beginning this Thursday, from 9 p.m. to midnight, and Friday and Saturday, from 11 a.m. to 8 
p.m. at LaFortunc. They will also be available Priday during lunch hours and next Monday and Tuesday during lunch and dinner hours at both dining halls. 
"Here at ND, love is always in the air, we thought that this would be a fun way to give you that extra boost in finding your match," said Glessing. "Don't be shy, there is no risk involved. We hope that by participating in the Irish Love Connection, you will have fun and per­haps meet your soul mate." 
~~\\\ 

THI Q,UIITIOMM4IR-I 
HIRI ARI IOMI IAMPLI Q.UIITIOMI FROM THI LOYI C.OMMICTIOM IURYIY: 
1. 
For the most part, do you consider yourself: (a) quiet, sensitive and mysterious (b) calm, cool, collected, usually in con­trol (c) a live wire, full of fun and high spirits (d) sometimes very quiet and sometimes full of fun 

2. 
You most like a date who? (a) laughs a lot and enjoys life (b) is quiet, sensitive and understanding (c) is intelligent and perceptive 

3. 
Which do you believe? (a) you believe in love at first sight (b) the idea of love at first sight is silly (c) love takes time 

4. 
Who do you feel are the happiest people? (a) those with a great deal of money (b) those who give much to others 


(c) those who have had many successes in their life (d) those who are very good looking 
5. 
The best part of ND football games is: (a) watching the game (b) throwing marshmallows (c) tailgating (d) checking out the opposite sex (e) do not attend football games 

6. 
How spicy do you like your food? (a) spicy (b) hot (c) "wow" (d) mild 

7. 
In a group, you are: (a) often the center of attention (b) sometimes the center of attention (c) usually a spectator 



Tur~d.1y, h:bruary 23, 1999 ------------------OBSERVER 

IOIM THI LO\t"I 
C.OM.MICTIOM 
IUBYl~l 4 Y 4IL.BLI 4Ts 
LI. FORTUNI ITUDINT CINTIRa THURIDA~,RB. U., 9P.J.l.­
11aOOA.14. FRIDA~• t ATUltDA~, FD. 11-11,:fl AA• a P.J.l. 
NORTH AND IOUTH DINING HALL/a FRIDA~,FU.1& 4TLUNCH .M.OMDA~ • TVIIDA~, .M.AR. f-1, 
AT LUNCH AND DIMNl8 
NO 0•11a.A.r10H ro •u1" ••,u,r, ro rAlt. l'UIIY•1"t ••,u,r, AYAII.A.•1• ...,,•• ,,PIIIHG 
......It. 
¦ SELF HELP FROM THE OFFICE OF ALCOHOL AND DRUG EDUCATION 
Important Questions 
Answered 
Special to the Observer 
Q. My roommate thinks I drink too much. I think she's wrong, but 110w would l know if I did have a drinking problem? 
A. 
Ifore &l'O some sig11s of pn)blom drinking. If you can truthfully answnr "yos" to any of t.hesc, you may want to discuss your drinking with a professional: 

1. Do you ever drive after drinking? 

2. 
Has tt medical profe.ssi1wal su!(gested you may have a problem, or havo you had <.'on­cerm, about alcohol tnfluendng your health -including physical symptoms like increased heart rntc or shakiness?.Is your memory etfoctcd? 


3. Do you drh1k to relax, escap(-1 problems, or beat loneliness? 
4. Havn you mado 11p rules to control your drinking (for example, .. I won't drink until the bnud starts pla.yiug," or ''l'll drink only on Saturday nights?") 
u. Do you deny the a.mount •ofa.li:roh(ll ,you drink -Aither to yourself or others -or have you ever hidden your alcohol bottles from roommates, frionds or fomily? 
6. Dons you drinking alter your sleeping or eating patterns'? Do you have more boer in your refrigerator than food? Do you miss Sunday morning church or bagels and cofl'E:'e with a frioud because of your drinking? 
7. 
Havn you lost interest in activities or rclationsh ips that you usecl to enjoy?. 1 

8. 
!lave you been embarrassed because of your .drinking 1,1.t social events? 

9. 
Do you likP to drink in.your room alone more than parties? 

10. 
After a tough time in your life, have you begun drinking more? Do you drink morp 


during exams, midterms or other stressful times? l 1, Do you like to havo a drink m-0st nights before bed? J 2. Has your drinking increasE>d since you've b1ion in college'? 
What's your score? Remember, any "yes• answers mean that you're at risk for being a probfom drinker. 
Q. I caught my girlfriend lying about how many beers she had the other night. I saw her drink five, but she says it was only two. Could she be an alcoholic? 
A. Hold on! Don'tjump to any conclusions. The truth may ho somewhcrn between your estimate and hers, or she may simply have lost track. Distorting how many drinks she had doesn't automrttically moan "alcoholic.'' She may just be embarrassed that she drnnk a lot this one time. 
Although a common facet of alcohol abuse is denial (a distorted view of tho problem or refusal lo see how significant the alcohol consumption is), your girlfriend isn't necessari­ly denying it. And if she is denying it, she isn't necessarily alcoholic. Do you sec whnre you may have gotten ahead of yourself? 
Take time to learn more about the wnrning signs of alcoholism (of which denial is onol. The Ot'fice of Alcohol and Drug Education has resources to help you gathor information. 
Talk honestly with your girlfriend before you make assumptions. Express your concern in a non-threat1ming way if your clearly see signs of alcohol abuse. Your girlfriend will ultimatf!ly have to be the person to stop th(! drinking in her life. But the concern of peo­ple like you can bo a major catalyst in her dficision to courageously take the noxt step towards dealing with something so tough. 
ff it becomes obvious that she does have drlnking problem, slw may ,wed im ovaluation to dotorminc her situation and needs. We can holp with that. So relax. learn more, and be sure and check out our resources for her sake and for your own. 
Q. Is alcoholism really a medical problem? 
A. Absolutely. Alcohol is as biologically-based as cancer. AIDS or depression. I wish that we could remove the stigma associated with alcoholism. Alcoholism is a disease, a real medical affliction. Tho American Medical Association declared alcohol and other drug dependencies a disease in 1956, yet we still fight the models of earlier times that considered alcoholism simply a poor moral choice. 
Although people suffer to different degrees from alcoholism, there are common chnrae­teristics associated with its progression. These are denial. loss of control, compulsions, and contlnuod use of alcohol in the fa.ce of adverse consequences. Alcoholics Anonymous defines alcoholism as a disease not just of the body, but also of the mind and spirit, and the definition has a lot ot' merit. 
Alcoholism has a. biochemical root, based on a {:finet1c prodispositlnn. StudillS haV(~ befln done that Jndicate that at least some types of alcoholism are inht1rited and arr only secondarily influenced by other psychiatric and p£1rsonality disorders that may 1:cmtribute to. but do not ca.use, a.koholism.. · ·· 
H may make alcoholism seem more scary to think of it as a dhrnnse, but in r1:1ality you should think of It as more manageable because it is a disease. Instead or having to deal with an alcohol problem as a situation of "mind over matter," a drinker should sE.'ek med­ical lntervontlon, Just as In 1h11 mnna.goment or other di,sensHs. alt·ohol c11.n lrn nddress,-•d imd trnatod both physically and emotionally . 
Problem drinkers can find solutions and feel better. 
For answers to questio11s about alcohol or dmg problems in your life, call the Office o.f Alrolwl and /)rug Bducatiun@ 631-7970. This Reacho1tt Column is provided by the Lowe Family Fo11rulation. Visit them at www.fowefamtly.org . 
-
,.,_· 
-
page 16 The Observer• SPORTS Tuesday, February 23, 1999 
¦ FENCING 
Men finish dual-meet season 12-0, women finish 11-2 
Ry MIKE CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 
In its final tune-up before the Midwest Championships, the depleted lrish fencing squads both had successful wePkends. 
The men's team. without the services of junior foilist Charles Hayes, who remained in South Bend for the Junior Parents' Wet>kend, completed an unde­feated record in Midwestern dual-meets by posting a 6-0 weekPnd. 
The men finished the dual­meet season 12-0 against the Midwest and 22-l overal.1. The only loss 011 the season came in a hard-fought match with defending national champion Penn State on the first weekend of competition, 14-1:3. 
The women's team traveled to Lawrence University missing thrAP kr,v fencPrs. Aimee Kalogcra · and Magda Krol n~mained behind for .JPW, while senior all-American Sara Walsh was oul due to illness. Despite the diflicult odds. the women ·s team still managed to win five of their six matches. The lone loss r.amr, against Northwestern, which defeated the women 17 ­15. 
The women completed the Midwest dual-meet season with an 11-2 record and 19-4 overall. The other Midwest loss came against Ohio State at the Duke Invitational. The only other Irish def'eats came at the hands of Penn State and Columbia­Barnard on the first weekend of competition. 
This weekend's matches proved to be a coming out party for freshmen foilists. Steve Mautone had already estab­lished himself as a strong fencer. as he posted a 29-15 mark com­ing into this weekend. With the absence of Hayes, however, he would be called upon to fence even stronger. 
"We have a very deep team," Mautone said. "So I didn't feel too much extra pressure. But I still wanted to do well." 
Mautone answered the chal­lenge and responded with a foil team-leading 16 victories cou­pled with only two defeats. He now has the most victories on the foil team with 45. 
Freshman Jeremy Beau, who had previously fenced only one match in his collegiate career, posted a 14-2 record this week­end. Beau's weekend was high­lightC'd by undefeated records against Michigan, Michigan State, Detroit Mercy and Northwestern. 
Captain Stephane Auriol con­tinued his steady play. His 14 victories on the weekend raised his season total tu 44, tying his career high for wins in a season. 
"IL was my first start in a tour­nament so I was a little ner­vous," Beau said. "The first fow teams were tough but then I calmed down. Stephane helped me out a lot." 
The men's epee team strug­gled a bit on the weekend. falling to Lawrence 5-4. Brian Casas and senior all-American 
C.J. Jackson IC'd the squad. Each registered a 12-4 record. 
The loss to Lawrence bas given the cpec squad added inspiration for the upcoming Midwest Championships. 
"Lawrence is a good squad," Jackson said. "When we see them again this weekend Iat the championships!, it's going to be nothing but revenge on our minds. It's payback time." 
The men's sabre squad had perhaps its most dominant weekend of the season. The team went undefeated against Michigan, Michigan State, Detroit Mercy, Lawrence and Northwestern. The only chal­lenge to the sabremen came from Wayne State which pushed the Irish before falling 6-3. 
Captain Luke LaValle and Gabor Szelle posted 16-1 marks. Szelle's 56 wins on the year are tops among Irish men and his . 965 winning percentage is the highest single-season winning percentage in Irish sabre histo­ry. 
The sabremen's success came 
without one of its key members, 
freshman Andre Crompton. 
Crompton was in France for a 
World Cup match. 
In his place, senior Steven 
McQuade had an extremely suc­
cessful weekend. He went 15-1 
and boosted his season record to 
26-7. 
The losses of all-Americans Krol and Walsh along with major foil contributor Kalogera had major repercussions for the 

Notre Dame's men's fencing team defeated Michigan, Michigan State, Detroit Mercy, Lawrence and Northwestern this weekend to boost their overall record to 22-1. 
women's teams. however. Nevertheless, the Irish Nicole Mustilli went 21-1 on the 
While Wayne State. Michigan, won 10-6 over both squads. weekend and undefeated against \1ichigan State, Detroit Mercy "Under the circumstances and Northwestern. The rest of the and Lawrence were all dis­pressure, I thought we all per­team, however, struggled patched with ease, 20-12, 27-5, formed very well," Paulina said. against the Wildcats, winning 25-7, 31-1 and 31-1, respective­"This weekend was a major con­only one match en route to a 11­ly. But Northwestern proved to fidence booster." 5 loss. be too tough for the weakened The epee team rolled over The Irish must put the strug­Irish squad. Wayne State University, gles and successes of the past 
The foil team led by all­Michigan, Michigan State, behind them this week and focus American Myriah Brown, cap­Detroit Mercy and Lawrence, on the Midwest Championships tain Nicole Paulina and senior but the loss of Krol proved to be which will be held in the Joyce Gina Couri combined to go 67-5 too much when it came time to Center this weekend. on the weekend. It received a face the Wildcats of "We are just trying to get back strong challenge from both Northwestern. to basics and making sure we Wayne State and Northwestern, Senior all-American captain are not rusty," Jackson said. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.rn. to 3 p.rn. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES 
Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise!5Nights S279!Includes Meals & Free Parties!Awesome Beaches,Nighllife!Departs From Florida!Cancun & Jamaica $399! springbreaktravel.com 1-800·678-6386 
Spring Break Panama City $129!Boardwalk Room w/Kitchen NextTo Clubs'7 Parties'Daytona $149!South Beach $129!Cocoa Beach $149! springbreaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 
How Green is Green? Work in Ireland on a Student Work Abroad Program and find out! 
Ca/I 1·888-C-Ouncil and ask for Tom 
CANCUN, BAHAMAS PANAMA CITY Get FREE PARTIES with USA Spring Break! Ca/11-888-777·4642 to book your trip today• 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST: Notre Dame Class Ring. Description: Aquamarine stone with name engraved on the inside of the ring. lnitials-PML. Call 273·9813. 
Lost: Spiderman Folder and assign­ment notebook, If found please call 0992. 
Beanie Baby-Found Feb. 15th between South Dining Hall and the K of C. (It looks new so I'm assum­ing that it's someones V-day gift.) Call 234-6445. 
WANTED 
CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT 
Workers earn up to $2,000+/rnonth (w/tips & bene• lits).World Travel!Land-Tour jobs up to $5,000-$7,000/summer.Ask us how! 517-336-4235 Ext.C55842 
BOYS & GIRLS CLUB NEEDS VOLUNTEER 8-BALL COACHES! Season runs 3-99 to 5-7-99 
Call 232-2048 for more info 
PERFECT JOB FOR STUDENT SPOUSE/S.O. ND Prof & his professional wife seek childcare provider in their house for 2 preschool children. Hours. transp., benefits & wages negotiable (approx. 30 hrs/wk). 
II interested, please call 631-7345. 
Accounting Students! Earn cash and a free CPA exam review course.Be a campus rep tor CPAexcel,the course that makes passing the exam easier. Visit www.cpaexcel.com or call toll• free 888-884-5669. 
FOR RENT 
WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BEDROOM STARTING $185 
MONTH/PERSON 232-2595 
NICE HOMES FOR NEXT 
SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND 8,6,4,3,BEDROOM 2773097 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 
FLORIDA SPRING BREAK 
SANDPIPER-BEACON BEACH RESORT PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA FROM $159 PER PER· SON 3 POOLS 1 INDOOR POOULAZV RIVER RIDE HUGE BEACHSIDE HOTTUB SUITES UP TO 10 PEO· PLE FREE INFO 1-800-488-8828 WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM 
Room $275/mo in large house 2 
miles from ND. 246·0704 
2 Bdrm. Apt. at College Park avail­able to sublease for summer ses­sion. Call 4-3620. 
3 BDRM, DUPLEX, REMODELED, 501 EDDY ST. 
1 Ml. FROM CAMPUS.APPLI­ANCES, W/D. 273-8332. 
FOR SALE 
282 min.$20 call 258-4805 
89mazda rx7 $5300 mustsell like new. 2888701 
PERSONAL 
When you need copies ... We're OPEN!II 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center 631-COPY 
Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm Sat: Noon-6:00pm Sun: Noon-Midnight 
This isn't too awkward, is it? 
Wow, my own desk. Too much. 
"Hello, my name is Inigo Montoya. You killed my father. Prepare to die." 
"Stop SAYING that" 
HAC, Brian, MAC, Krupa, Shannon -Just think warm. Think 70s. Think LA. 
-Laura :D 
well, this is my last real late shift! 
so, the last classifieds I will have the power to corrupt! 
Allen, it has been fun abusing my power to harass you in the classi• fies. Have fun at the Olympics. That girl is crazy if ahe doesn't like you. 
Diane -Hang in there. The dark days will pass, even though ii does­not seem like it right now. And this play will be awesome, just because you are in it 
Thanks for being such a wonderful -and tolerant -roommate. 
Amanda -we will again go to heart­land. It just might be after spring break. 
Sorin 215-where are you guys? I 
have a lot of time free now that I'm done working here. 
You should give me a call J 
There are some times in your life that you always want to remember. 
The late shift is definitly not one of them. 
Laura, you have the keys. You'll do a great job. I'm done. Love. Heather Mac 
Ted-­Hope you enjoyed the pizza. -· Dave P. 
get me out of here I need some sleep. will we ever get done? 
6 am isn't looking teasable at this 
point in time Thanks for the help Kathleen. Hope you got some quality sleep, because we all know I didn't 
seriously though. THANKS! 
Gosh. Kessler, you're killing me and it's only our first night. The honeymoon's over. O-V-E-R. Over. Hsu, you're a dork. Kevin is the best. Headshot mania! Hi Emily "Rain" -· did you expect a 
classified today? Well, you got one! 
Where's Mark DeBoy when you really need him? And we're done. 

No one· helps you go the distance like Ernst & Young LLP, the largest -and still the 
.:
fastest growing -professional services firm in the world. With our training, strength and stability in your corner, you'll have all the support you need to truly become a champion. Ernst & Young LLP, an equal opportunity employer, values the diversity of our work force and the knowledge of our people. 
s!/ ERNST& YOUNG LLP 
-

page 18 The Observer• SPORTS Tuesday, February 23, 1999 
¦ NBA 
Rodman closing in on deal with Los Angeles 
#9 Women's Basketball 
vs. 
,, Miami Tues. Feb. 23 @ 7:00pm 
-~@®@®@ 

Associated Press 
BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. 
There wern tears. Thero was talk of sex. There were obsceni­ties. There was flamboyant fash­ion. 
All the commotion came as Dennis Rodman held a news conference Monday and said he was moving closer to playing for the Los Angeles Lakers. 
Rodman. the seven-time defon<ling rebounding champi­on, said he expects lo be in uni­form Thursday or Friday. ESPN said he would practice Wedn1>.sday -even though the team will be coming off three road games in three nights ­and make his debut Friday against the Los Angeles Clippers. 
The latest r.hapter of "As The Worm Turns." along with the 
-
Lakers' subsequent 117-1 U loss at Denver. made for another turbulent day. But that's nothing new to the Lakers, who three weeks ago made it clear they wanted to sign the 37-year-old tattooed forward. a member of five championship teams, including the lasl lhrne with the Chicago Bulls. 
Dressed conservatively -for him -11xcept for a wide. multi­colored hat and dark glasses. Rodman arrived 30 minutes late for his news conference. [le was accompanied by his wife, actress Carmen Electra, agent Steve Chasman and sister D1,bra. 11ut nobody was them from the Lakers. 
Then came a series of bizarre and conflicting statements. And the news conference ended abruptly after some 20 minutes with a tParf'ul Rodman being asked if Ile had been sellish by not announcing a decision earli­er. 
Hodrnan began by saying he wanted to sign with the Lakers. but matters were incomplete. When angrily questioned why he called the news conference if he had no announcement to make, Rodman snapped: "You don't have to be here." Shortly there­after he said he hoped to sign Monday night. 
"Hopel'ully, I'll be playing this week, and, hopefully, the Lakers and the people of California will accept me for who I am and what I do." he said. "If not, I'll move on." 
Rodman said he had spoken with Lakers owner Jerry Buss several times and hoped to sign a two-or three-year deal with the team. He insists he is in good shape and could immedi­ately play 30 to 35 minutes a game. 
lie also said he would be reli­able, pointing out he played 80 of a possible 82 regular-season games for the Bulls last season. 
"You can count on me, you can count on me going to prac­
tice," he said. superstars," he said. 
Rodman said the Lakers "Everybody has to play a role. weren't a championship team This team doesn't understand now and must change their that right now." approach. The Lakers (6-5) didn't look 
"All the guys want to be like a championship team in 
P~ NOTRE DAME 
~FEOE,AL CREDIJ UNION 
Get on-line today with Notre Dame Federal Credit Union's FREE HomeBanking 
@ 
www.ndfcu.org 
Find out how you qualify for Membership e-mail: ndfcu@ndfcu.org 219 239-661 I • 800 522-661 I Independent of the University 
@ @ @ @ @ 
their loss at Denver. which had won just once in nine previous games. 
'Tm hoping that this is going to give us a boost, because we need one," guard Derek Harper 
Get on-line with Notre Dame Federal Credit Union's FREE Home Banking Service. Internet Banking On-Line. As a Member, you can enjoy secure access to your accounts day or night. Check batances, pay bills, transfer money. All from the privacy and convenience of your Home or Office. 
• 
FREE Secure Access to your accounts 

• 
FREE Stock Quotes 

• 
Compatible with Quicken or Microsoft Money 

• 
Financial Wizard™ Calculators 

• 
Plus low-cost Electronic Bill Payment Service 


said following the latest loss. "Getting him will help. We nr.cd help as a team. lie is a high­energy player." 
Shaquille O'Neal said Bodman will bring defense and rebounds. 
-
Tuesday, February 23, l999 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
¦ TRACK AND FIELD 
Men place second, women take third at Big East 
By KEVIN THOMPSON Sprn rs Wricer 
It's what tlwy prnparo for all s1)aso11 long. 
;\II anymw talks about all sea­s11n is thn Big East. Tlw Notrr. l>anw mnn's and wonwn's track and li1•ld t1wms did not disap­point this w1mknnd. both turn­ing strong 1wrfonnances at the 
l<J<)(J Big Fasl Indoor (:Juunpionships. 
Tlw nwn look honrn sncond plac<> and tlw wnmnn placl'd third al thn Carrinr l>omc in Syrarnsn. NY. 
A d1iep c;Porgntown squad prov111I too much f'or tlw rnnn, who 11nishnd (,5 points hnhind tlw lloyas. 
"We fplf lhal if w11 hit on all cylind..rs and uliliz1Hl all our w1•apons WP would cornn up with a strong showing," said hnad coach .lnP Piarrn. "We facPd a very drnip and nxpnri­('IH'NI tPanl... 
Th<' wom<'n s1:ornd I00 points I'll roulf' to u third-placn finish. Only I<) points sPparatnd first• placn Pittsburgh and the third­plai:P l rish. IL was llw higlwst­1,v1·r finish for tlw Notre Damn wonwn al tlw Hig East !minor Championships, a rnarkPd improvPm<•nl ovPr last ypar's ninth plarP. 
l.nading a sp1•ctacular day l"or 11w wo111P11 was junior .Joanna 
ll1•nt(•r ill tlw :moo nrnwrs. 
lh·1•1PI" s111Pll1•d victory, hut foll 17 h1111<lrPdths or ;I Sl'COlld ,hor1 lo l'rovid<•111·p ·s Sarah 1>111m•. 
lunior .IPnnil"Pr E11g1•lharclt PqualPd hPr lwsl indoor mark or :i-fo1,1-JO irwlws in llw high jump. Tlw hPight was good <•11011gh for st>r111HI pla('.I'. EngPllrnr(ll looks to r,•turn lo all-/\11wrirn11 form at 11w NCAA championships if slw 1·an turn in arrntlwr solid 1wrl"ormanrn llf'Xl W<'<'k al thP .'\l<'x Wilson Invitational. 
Freshmen Liz Grow and Dorn DeBartolo l<~d a talented hatch of' 1rnwcomnrs to the conforenr.e championships. Grow raced to a second-place linish in tlrn 400 meters in 5S:5(>. She ulso scored in the 200 meters with an eighth-place finish of 27:29. DeBartolo continued to imprnss with a strong third-place linish in the shell put.. 
"/\rtcr a rough first day, IDuBartoln] really pulled it togetlrnr," said assistant eoach Scott Winsor. "As a freshman, she show1id poise in her first Big East Championship." 
!\ strong frnshmcn contingent has boen a sparkplug for tho women all sc:ason. Their influ• ence has not gone unnoticed 
"They have como in with a diffcm•nt attitud1c that has been invaluabln," said assistant couch John Millar. "It has shown across the board. They do not want to lose." 
Leading the men's side was Mike Brown's victory in the pole vaull. Brown soarr.d to a height of' 16-fent-2 inches to capture his third-consecutive Big East titln in tlrn evnnt. Brown is only tlrn second Notrn Dame athl(Jte to accomplish tlrn feat. The first \Vas all-American Jason !foxing in the :moo meters. 
Whiln Brown is proud of llrn win, he believes his best stuff d<•s<lrl<HI him. l!n looks for a jump ovnr 17 !"net to assurn hims,df' a spot in tlw NC!\!\ Indoor Championships in two wcnks. 
Also on the men's side, junior Marshaun West continues to turn lwads. Wnsl placncl first in Lim 200 mntnrs with a lime of 
21:42. Wnst, who has qualified f'or Urn NCAA Championships in tlm 200 nwt,•rs and long jump. might have a tough decision lo make in two weeks. At thn Championships, tlrn long jump 

and 200 meter events occur at the same time. West and the Irish coaches must decide where to compete. This is an enviable dilnmma for many col­legiate athletes. 
ARE YOU PREPARED FOR THE 
JOB MARKET? 
The COBA Diversity Program and the Notre Dame Chapter of the NAACP present: 
DON DYER, PARTNER PRICEWATERHOUSE COOPERS 
Topics Success in Corporate America Diversity in the Workplace 
Thursday, February 25th 4:00 -5:30 pm COBA 160 
/\ part of Black History Month '99 "A Celebration of Achievement" 
The Observer sports department is hiring copy editors and production assistants. If interested, call us.at 1-4543. 

RICHARD GIAZIER pianist 
RAGTIME & ROMANCE: JOPLIN AND GERSHWIN 
Tuesday, Feb. 23, 1999 • 7:30 p.m. 
MOREAU CENTER-MoRiA-0 
, J c:.1;mk'k. /
LITfLE THEATRE ~.:;::..-:.~.• 
For ticket information, contact the Sain( Mary's hox office (219) 284-4626 
"Marshaun is in an interest­ing siluation," said Millar. "While he possesses undeniable talent in sprint events, we will weigh the options carefully. If he qualifies for both evnnts we will sit down in the next couple of weeks and make a decision." 
Other top finishers for the men include sophomore Hyan Shay with a victory in the :rnoo meters and second place in the 5000. Junior Tim Kobnr placed third in the 800 meters with a time of 1:53.15. while senior Antonio Arce took fourth in the 
mile run in 4: 14.43 . .Junior Phil Mishka ran the l000 111t,t11rs in 
2:29.45 for fourth place and .Joshua Ileek took fourth in tlrn pole vault with a height of 15­feet-3-inclws. 
The Notre Damn nrnn's and womnn's track tnams will be at it again next wenknnd at the Alex Wilson Invitational at the Meyo Track in Loftus Athletic Center. This is the last opportu­nity for Notre Dame athlntns to qualify for the NCAA champi­onships coming up on March 5­6. 
-----·--------· ..
r
,--·-------·-~-----------·---~ ---•--------------------­
page 20 
¦ WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
McMillen goes for Irish record 
By BRIAN KESSLER Assismnr Spores Editor 
Senior captain Sheila McMillen will look to enter her name in the Notre Dame record book tonight when.the ninth-rankf1d women's basket­ball team (20-aJ closes out the regular season at home against Miami (14-l 1 ). 
McMillen needs just one thrt>e pointer to surpass Beth Morgan and become the Irish leader in career three-point field goals made. 
"It's a great accomplish­ment." said McMillen, who tied the school record on 
-
Saturday. "I know that one day I' II be able to look back and t.hink more of this, but right now, we're all concen­trating on the tournament." 
McMillcn's team has already locked up the third seed for the Big East tournament, but will look to close out the sea­son with their third straight victory. 
"We haven't played Miami this year, so it will be a new matchup for us," said sopho­more Ruth Riley, who leads the Big East in rebounding and field goal percentage. "We're looking to finish strong and get ready for the tourna­ment." 
McMillen and freshman Ericka Haney earned Big East honors for their play last week, as the Irish defeated Syracuse and West Virginia. McMillen was named co-Big East player of the week, as she broke Morgan's single season three point record while averaging 22.5 points per game and 4.5 rebounds. 
Haney garnered co-fresh­man of the week honors for the first time of her career, as she averaged 13 points and six boards in the two Irish vic­tories. 
¦ SOFTBALL 
"She's played really well for us." said Riley. "She's a very versatile player and gives us a different dimension. She's quick and can handle the guards, but she can also play in the post." 
Miami's Kym llope was the other Big East player of the week. She led her team to a pair of victories over Seton Hall and St. John's, while averaging 22 points and 8.5 rebounds. The senior forward scored a career-high 33 points and pulled down 10 boards in the win over St. John's en route to her ninth double-dou­b I e of the season. Hope is fourth in the Big East in scor­ing, averaging 16.8 points per game. 
"She's a really good player," said Riley. "She's very athletic and good from the outside, but also can drivo. She's an all-around good player, so we have to play her straight up." 
The Hurricanes have been on fire from the field in recent weeks. They have shot over 50 percent in three of their last four games. Cassaundra Wimes (13 points) and Jennifer Jordan (12 points) each scored in double figures in the victory over St. John's. 
Miami has now won three straight and has moved into a three-way tie for fifth place in the conference. The Hurricanes will try to lock up that fifth seed with a victory over the Irish. 
Opponents, however, have had a difficult time playing Notre Dame at the Joyce Center. The Irish are 11-1 at home on the season. 
uwe play well at home and it's senior night, so that should add to it," said Riley. "Last year, we lost a tight game to them in Miami. so I think we'll remember that and come out ready to play." 
Irish open season with two victories 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame softball team kicked off its 1999 sea­son with two wins over South Florida (2-0) and Georgia Tech (6-4) at the Gladstones Tournament Friday night. Notre Dame moved to 2-0 on the season and Jorns Tennessee as the only unde­feated teams after day one of the six-team tournament. 
In the first game of the night, the Irish upset sixth­ranked South Florida by a 2-0 margin. 
Irish freshman Jarrah 
... 
Myers. in her first collegiate al-bat, launched a home run over the fence in left-center to score and drive in the winning run in the bottom of the sec­ond inning. 
Notre Dame added another run in the fifth-inning after senior Amy Laboe picked up the win !'or the Irish, limiting the Hulls to just four hits. with a complete ganrn perfor­mance, 
Against Georgia Tech, Notre Dame got another outstanding pitching performance out of sophomore Jennifer Sharron who struck out a career-best 1 O batters in the team's 6-4 victory. 
With the score 4-2 in the top of the sixth, Notre Dame's Kris McCleary walked and later scored the winning run on an RBI-single by sopho­more Lizzy Lemire. 
Georgia Tech made iL close in the bottom of the sixth by scoring two runs and later thrnatened the bottom of the 
sevMth with  runners on  first  
and second and one out.  
Sharron,  however,  got  

Georgia Tech's Mikki Deal to strikeout and Ellen Styer to ground out to second to end the game at 6-4 in favor of the Irish. 
The Irish face Miami of Ohio at noon and Tennessee at 8 
p.m. on Saturday before con­cluding tournament play with a Sunday morning match against Kansas. 
The Observer• SPORTS Tuesday, February 23, 1999 

The Obse,ver/Liz Lang 
Ruth Riley and the Irish are looking for their third-straight victory tonight when they host Miami. 

Heard Any Good Rumors Lately? 
We've got one: "Turtle Creek is full for the 99-00 school year!" 
We have been receiving lots of phone calls from students who have heard that we are no longer accepting applications for the upcoming school year. We want to let everyone know 
TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS IS STILL ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR ALL STYLES OF APARTMENTS AND TOWNHOMES FOR THE 99-00 SCHOOL YEAR. 
So stop by the leasing office today and pick up your information and application packet before the rumor becomes reality! 
TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
"THE STUDENTS FIRST CHOICE IN OFF CAMPUS HOUSING" 
272-8124 
HURRY... IT'S NOT TOO LATE!! 
BIOSPHERE 2: SEMESTER "ABROAD" Fall 1999 & Spring 2000 Slots Still Available 

The Observer• SPORTS page 21 
¦ SAINT MARY'S BASKETBALL 
Belles close season with 63-53 loss to Adrian 
Ry MOLLY MCVOY warn lost a tough ono Saturday similarity that Saturday's game \pun, Wm,·1 al Adrian Collr.gn. b3-53. had with tho Belles· overall play The Belles· average margin of this soason. Fitli11g Lim lhnnw of' its SIHl­loss this stiason has b,~en 9. 9 Once again, tho Br.llns son. thn Saint Mary's haskHtball points, but that's not. t.he only allowed themselves to fall 
0 
'.~ . . . Come Join ~he Tradition . . .... , , ... ~Apphcat1ons are now being accepted for ma11~g,,positions for the 1999-2000 academicschoolye··
:• 

You ma_y pick up applications atthe · Office of Student Activities · 315 LaFortune 
.Deadline: February 26, 19ti\] 
STRESS RELIEF. 
¦ ¦ 
MASSAGE ... 
• 
Ml DTE RMS STRESS RELIEF, TREAT YOURSELF TO A FULL BODY MASSAGE 

• 
MASSAGE RELIEVES STRESS, TENSION HEADACHESt NECK PAIN 

• 
STUDENTS WILL RECEIVE A DISCOUNT ON HALF HOURAND HOURMASSAGES 


CALL TODAY TO SCHEDULE YOUR MASSAGE, THIS JUST MAY BE WHAT YOU NEED 10 EASE 'lHE 
254-1400 

behind oarly in the game, thnn  Oftm1, it semned as if' Llw Bdlns  
staged a comeback, lrnf'orr.  had as much, if' not morn, talm1t  
!'ailing short.  than their opponents who  
"This season has been frus­ endc~d up recording the win.  
trating," said sophomorr. for­ Lack of expnrinncn has boon a  
ward Julie Norman. "It will  key factor that head coach Dave  
prove to be an asset next sea­ Roeder has pointed to all sea­ 
son though. We've grown and  son long.  
bonded as a team with all the  "We can only blamo our youth  
rough times."  for so long. WH ncwd to turn it  
Saint Mary's outscornd Adrian  around," ho said oarlinr this  
in the second half, hut it did not  year.  
compensate l'or its pr.rformanco  IL secims that the team will  
in the first half.  hav,i to look to noxt ynar for  
The Belles only made 9 of 31  that turn-around fro III tlwi r  
shots from the lloor in the lirst  newly aquired nxpnrinncP. The  
half, a 29 percent shooting per­ Bnllns have improv,id this sr.a­ 
formance. They nearly doubled  son and those improvements  
that in the sec.and half, shooting  will hopefully appear as wins on  
52 percent, but Adrian took  the sclwdule 1rnxt year.  
advantage early and maintained  There is a lot of talent which  
enough control to pull it out.  indicatlls that thci Bnllos will b11  
The Bell1~s went into halftime behind by 12 points 137-25). but  abln to do just that. Norman 11n­ishr.d the ynar in thn top 10  - 
never Int tho game get out of  leagun load!lrs in ovr.rall scor­ 
their grasp in tho second half.  ing, stnals and thrPI! point  
Saint Mary's stayed with Adrian  shooting. Freshman Knlly .lorrns  
the crntire half, but could not  11nislrnd second in tlw h\agun in  
overcome its first-half play.  blocknd shots and in tlrn top IO  
The problem plaguing Saint  in n,bounding.  
Mary's all season has been its  It is this talnnt that Saint  
seeming inability to play a con­ Mary's will havo dnpend on to  
sistent 40 minutes of basketball.  turn things around next ynar.  

PROFESSIONAL SALES OPPORTUNITY 
CBLD, a subsidiary of a 12S yr. old Bell Company, is growing fast and 
developing into a true integrated Communications Provider! We are 
rapidly expanding into the market of Data Network Solutions that 
includes Frame Relay, Internet Access, and IP. We currently have open­
ings for Account Executives in SOUTH BEND. This individual is responsible 
for business to business sales of a full line of voice services, advanced 
data network solutions and (PE. 
WE OFFER: 
• 
Competitive base salaries with aggressive commission structures 

• 
Thorough paid training and ongoing support 

• 
Full benefit package including med/den/life, tuition aid, and 40 IK. 

• 
Career path opportunity. 


WE ARE LOOKING FOR PEOPLE WHO ARE: 
• 
Motivated, successful professionals looking for the freedom to control their own success and income. 

• 
looking to grow their career with a dynamic organization 

• 
Confident/Assertive/Ambitious 

• 
Proven Winners! 


Send resume to Recruiter, 36 E. 7th St., Ste. 2300, Cinti., OH 45202 Fax (513) 369-2180 c;-§] bJ 
-
Clf'«.T"'lltt\111\f.tl (.(ffllldT,t,,«::, 
page 22 The Observer• SPORTS 
¦ MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish split weekend matches 
By NATHANIEL DeNICOLA Sporrs \X'ri trr 
There are good fortunes 
whose benefits are immediate 
and obvious. 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team is praying for a blessing in disguise. 
Since their promising 3-0 start. the team has suffered three heartbreaking 4-3 losses to Texas, Kentucky and Minnesota, each of which escaped the Irish by a few unfortunate bounces of the ball. 
"Those arc always tough loss­es, but better it happen now than later." head coach Bob Bavhss said. 
,Junior all-American Ryan Sachire expressed similar senti­ments on the lrish's string of'
-frustrating defeats. "We are so close to being 7-1, but dose isn't where we want to be," said Sachire. "Perhaps this will be good in the long run; it doesn't give us a false sense of securily." Over the weekend thfl 24th­ranked lrish split two matches at the Eck Tennis Pavilion, blanking 37th-ranked Northwestern. 7 -0 on Saturday before falling to 23rd-ranked Minnesota in an all too familiar fashion, 4-3. In a weekend of highs and lows, the lrish main­tained their .500 record by lev­eling Saturday's 5-4 record to 5-5 following Sunday's loss. In the match against Northwestern, the duo of Matt Horsely and Trent Miller gave the Irish an early advantage downing Erickson/Nguyen 8-4 at No. 2 doubles. Matt Daly and 
...c:
-

...c:
-

Casey Smith clinched the dou­bles point and established a 1-0 lead by defeating !fol/Sahara 8­3 at No. 3 doubles. Notre Dame then proceeded to tear up the six singles matches. losing only one set en route to the first shutout of the season. 
Andrew Lallin, who was play­ing for the first time since recovering from illness, proved he hadn't missed a beat by con­tinuing his undefeated streak at No. 6 singles, winning 6-3, 6-0 over Jamie Sahara. 
Third-ranked Sachire tri­umphed over No. 46 Doug Hohabov 6-4, 7-5 at No. 1 sin­gles, followed by senior captain Brian Patterson's 7-6 (5). 6-3 \'ictory at number two. At Nos. 3-5 Daly won against Erickson, 7-5, 6-2. Warford outlasted Nguyen 6-3, 3-6, 6-3, and Smith easily handled Hol 6-1. 6~1. 
Clearly the team's most domi­nating display. Notre Dame's shutout against Northwestern yielded two-fold benefits. First, it served as a mild form of retri­bution for the shutout endured by the Irish at the hands of Duke from the week before. 
"We wanted to show that 
Duke was a fluke and prove 
that we can beat the good 
teams," said Sachire. 
Second, the victory marked 
the realization of Bob Bayliss' 
much anticipated 500th career 
victory. Bayliss, who has spent 
29 years in the business, the 
last 11 with Notre Dame, 
acknowledged the victory with 
the utmosthumility. 
"It's just one of the those 
things that happens when you 
coach long enough," said 
Bayliss, "though having it occur here at Notre Dame did make it a little more special." 
Senior captain Warford noted this modesty, "Coach down­played it a lot, but the whole tMm knew what he had accom­plished." 
Despite the modesty. others were lavish in bestowing praise. 
"I think it's a great tribute to his dedication. It establishes him as one of the best coaches in college," said Sachire. "We were all proud that we could be a part of it." 
The victory certainly places Bayliss in elite company, becoming only the 22nd coach in collegiate men's tennis histo­ry to accomplish such a feat. 
For all the dramatics that Saturday provided, Sunday counteracted it wilh an equal amount of disappointment. Minnesota won the doubles point to gain the early 1-0 advantage, but Notre Dame ral­lied in the singles matches to build a 3-2 lead. The Irish were lead by the usual suspects with second-ranked Sachirc defeat­ing Tyson Parry at No. 1 singles 6-3, 6-2, Patterson beating Adam Selkrik at No. 2 singles 7­6 (3), 6-3, and Andrew Laflin continuing his command over No. 6 singles winning 7-6 (3), 6­4 over Jorge Duenas. 
The Gophers. however, staged a dramatic come-from­behind victory, capped by Jon Svensson's win over Daly at No. 3 singles to finish the match, 4­
3. Daly fought off two match points at 6-4 in the second set tiebreaker to force a third set 
tickets still on sale for 
-
"' C CL 
CD ::::I
-
"' 
V) c::,,. 
Tuesday, February 23, ] 999 

which Svensson won 6-2. Though the loss may seem dis­appointing. especially coupled with other similar defeats earli­er in the season, the veterans of the team understand the impor­tance of a defeat. 
"We will use this loss as motivation for future matches," said Sachire. 
Warford echoed similar hope for the future, "It's good to get these losses now. What really matters is what happens in May [in the NCAA tournament]. That's what you've got to keep in perspective." 
Notre Dame takes on Iowa this Wednesday at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 

at the lafortune box office 
lecture is tuesday, april 13 
meet ·oe black 
C
-
r-. 
C 
"' 
thursday 10:3():;· =r 
(C 
= 
C 
;friday and saturday 8and 10:30 
C>
-
C 
3 
-
friday, midnite at reckers 
C C, 
~free 
E 
0 
..... 
a:. ·amal 
-•--­


The Observar/Meg Kroener 
¦ 150-P0UN0 TO 163-POUND DIVISION 
Bengal Bouts Quarterfinal Results 
McMahon-Bye Aramini-Bye
125 Lbs. 
Overbeck-Bye Holcomb-Bye 
Seerveld defeated Kakkanathu-UN Garry defeated Fumagalli-UN
135 Lbs. 
Gallegos defeated Eberly-SP Madden defeated Rueda-SP 
Will defeated Fulton-UN Shacklett defeated Kemps-SP
145 Lbs. 
Castrogiovanni defeated Gonzalez-SP Maguire defeated Tubay-UN . 
Mellin defeated Kaza-RSC Lynn clefeatedTabis-SP
150 Lbs. 
Buccellato defeated Mehl-UN Hernandez defeated Froman-RSC 
Murphy defeated DeSapio-RSC Rubino defeated Vuolo-SP
155 Lbs. 
Locher defeated Fonte-UN Cronley defeated Mehan-UN 
LaDuke defeated McCullough-UN Saracino defeated Wicklander-UN
160 Lbs. 
Kirley defeated Tapia-UN Santucci defeated Dobosh-SP 
Murphy defeated Conley-RSC Travis Alexander fends off a blow by Chris Uhart. Alexander went on to earn a unanimous decision last night. Nowak defeated Luzzader-RSC
163 Lbs. 
McMurtrie defeated Lumbao-RSC Alexander defeated Uhart-UN
Freshman Hernandez impresses 
Biolchini defeated Bartles-UN Kippels defeated Kurple-RSC
165 Lbs. 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ and often," Murphy said. "The Freshman Daniel Saracino Polcarl defeated Welsh-SP Spom Editor best stratr.gy is to come real advanced by unanimous deci­Penn defeated Muro-RSC hard and take control of the sion over Ray Wicklander. With each fight that passns, fight and that is what I did." Joshua Kirley advanced in what Kerrigan defeated Matassa-UN 
Peterson defeated Ponko-SP
Urn story of' thn t50-pound divi­Murphy's next opponent will the crowd thought a somewhat 
170 Lbs. 
Hammes defeated Nester-UN
sion thickens. be the feisty freshman Nick controversial call over Miguel 
Dehmer defeated Hovan-SP
Freshman Edward "El Rubino. lie outlasted the tall and Tapia. Kirley advanced by unan­Papoose" llernamlcz defeated lanky reach of Hobert "Forget imous decision, but not easily, Hobbins defeated Halloran-RSCjunior .John Froman in a nght About It" Vuolo. llis counter­with Tapia landing vicious Sandifur defeated Wilson-RSC
175 Lbs.
that wPnt just short of' three punching was his strength, rights. 
Dillon defeated Czerniawski-SProunds. It was a strong perfor­according to Rubino. 
Pfeiffer defeated Bueche-UN 
mancn f'or the freshman. "It was more glamourous than 163-Pound Division On llrn other sidti of the brack-I thought it would be with all the Thompson defeated Cullen-RSC 1it, top-sendr1d J.H. Mellin lights," Rubino said about his In Monday night's contest, Kent defeated Vaisnoras-UN
180 Lbs.
appnawcl dominant as his open­first Bouts exp!lrience. Kevin "The Jersey Meathook" Criniti defeated Allen-UN ing round chm! with Babu Kaza Junior Steve "Tone" Locher Murphy saw all his dedication Chen defeated Kennedy-UN 1•1Hled just past tlrn halfway won by unanimous decision over pay off. The law student's hooks mark in tlw first round. Mllilin's freshman Nick "The llunk" and jabs appeared to much for Gaffney defeated Norton-RSC aggrnssive style• earned Kaza a Fonte. Locher's ability to get Brian Conley. Murphy's power­Johnson defeated Nelson-UN
185 Lbs. 
standing-eight count which he inside early on and land combi­ful punches earned Conley a Clay defeated Qualters-RSC mwer recov,~rnd from. nations aided the junior to a standing-eight count which he Romanchek defeated Christ-RSC As tlw Bouts continue, fresh­semi-linal appearance. never really recovered from. man s1H1salion Ilernandnz edges Second-seeded Tom Cronley's The referee stopped the contest Butz defeated Larson-RSC 
Shenk defeated Turner-SP
evPr clos1•r lo i. possible duel patient and controlled approach 1:21 seconds into the first round. 
190 Lbs. 
Velten-WOwith defonding champion Mellin. earned him his appearance in "I like io dedicate each fight," June defeated Brennan-UNBoth boxers arc open to tough the semi-finals. Paul "He-Man" Murphy said. "This fight was matclrns in th1~ semis with nei­Mchan's quick start and burst of mostly dedicated to my friends Ryan-ByethPr gelling a full nghl under energy in the second round was who have supported me Luechtefeld defeated Schueller-RSC
195 Lbs.
tlwir bdts, which is a disadvan­not nnough to defeat Cronley. throughout. I wanted to get the 
Kent defeated Jinks-UN 
tagP according lo Mellin. "I thought he was good in the win, but I wanted to do some­Rodriquez defeated Joseph-SP
Tlwsn two will encountnr ring and came out harder than I thing exciting for them. I wanted si•mi-f'inal opponnnls in Matt did," Cronley said. "H was goocl to get out and land some real 
Salvino defeated Donnelly-RSC
"Tlw International Man of for me in a sense that I got good punches. I really just came 
Romero defeated McLean-UN
Heayy
Myst«'ry" Lynn and Kt'vin "Boom ev1irything out and I won't be in looking to connect and keep Yatorola defeated Downes-UN Boom" Buccf'llato. Jlat next time." the pressure on him." weight Riederer defeated Beam-RSC l.ynn narrwcl his smni-linal bid Following Murphy's fight. the 
Key:
through a hard fought split deci­l<iO-l'ound Oivision crowd's hunger for a big time 
UN=Unanimous decicion of judges
sion virtory ovnr .John Tallis. brawl was satisfied. Sean "The 
SP=Split; a majority of the judges selected the winner 
Tlwsn two wmit hlow-for-hlow, Snnior Mike "Lockdown" Erie Kid" Nowak and Shane WO=Walk Over (Opponent did not show) whirh took its toll on both box­LaDuke came out swinging and Luzzader came out quickly. tH'S by 1!rn tin11· tlw t.hirrl round caught Matt "Doctor Sin" Each of boxers landed solid hits roflpcl ill. McCullough off guard. The cap­with tbc recipients landing on 
lhHTt•llato also found himself tain's combination stunned llrn mat. While Nowak's and in a tough light with S!.1•vn Md1!. McCullough as he got his stand­Luzzader's fight was not thn It was ;u10llwr hrawl with narli ing night count to recover. most cnntrollncl, it got the lighlt•r landing as many punclws lkspit.e McCullough's dntnrmi­crowd's allnntion. Nowak as 11w olhPr. l\frhl got rill Parly, nution, I.uDukP advanced by advancPd by Uw reforne stop­hul rt•mai11Pd d1•lcrmi11nd t.o unanimous dccision. ping tlrn light l :21 socon<ls into rally. In tlw PIHi Bttcccdlato liv1•rything app('arnd to go the second round. advanr<•d with a unanimous according to plan in 160-pound Following tlrn pattern set by d11r.ision. division, until freshman Juan "El tho prnvious lights, Ililly "Sweot 
Matador" Santucci steppPd in J>p,;i" McMurtrif• adwmcPd to tlrn Ia:i-Pound nivision the ring. semi-rinals with the reforeo Tlw Arg1rntinian app11arcd stopping the fight with one 
SPnior DavP "Tlw Hock" somewhat timid in the 01wning minutP remaining in the third. Murphy appnart>d slrnngt\r than round. llis opponent, sccond­Dennis 1.umbao found himself' on 1•vPr in his tqwning-round sendnd junior .Jeff "The Bruisin the rcr.irwing mnl of a continu­match. Tlw captain lanclncl a Bolrnnk" Dobosh controlled the ous barrage of McMurtrio's vi1·inus right midway through ring. Il<l look a cnlm and calcu­punches. llw lirst round which IPl't Vincn lat,•d approach. Santucci rallied Tho only fight in the division llPSapio rmding. t\flPr DoSapio at tlrn close of tho !'irst round that made il a full throe rounds rPCl'iV!'d his 1\ight snconds to and 1rnv1ir lookncl buck. was that or Travis Alexander. rt'l'.OVPr, he appParPd daz1\d and The l'rnshman upiwt thn Alt•xanclcr advanced by unani­till' rdncP rnllcd tlw light just l'uvorm.1 junior in a split decision mous decision over senior Chris 
I: 18 Sl!COmls into llw first round. in 01m of the biggest upsnts of Uhart. 
"f wanlPd to conw out early tlw night. The Observer/Ernesto Lacayo Sean Nowak swings at Shane Luzzader in a 163-pound bout. 

,..____________________...,______________ ----·--w---••-~,...w--....••--..,._.,.,______,,_,_________ 

¦ 165-POUNO TO 180-POUNO DIVISIONS 
Experienced fighters advance to Wednesday's semis 
Bolchini, Kerrigan, Hobbins, Thompson victorious yesterday 
By KERRY SMITH Spnm \Vricer 
Exµcrifmce proved to be a key factor iu determining the victors of Monday night's qoarterf1nal round of Uw 69th annual Bengal Bouts, although the night did not end without a few sur­prises. 
Top seeds Tom "Polly Prissy Pants" Biolchini. Alex "The Corn Cob Kid" Kerrigan. Brian "The HighlandH" Hobbins and Josh "Gaffney Who?" Thompson aH r!'lied on PXpPrience and technique to defeat their opponents and gain spots in Wednesday's semifi­nal match-ups. 
In the lfi5-pound division. Biolchini met a spirited competitor in junior Doug Bartles. Bartles' aggressiveness in the opening minutes of the first round came as a surprlse to ihP favorite. 
"] didn't fight as l would have liked," said Biolchini. "I didn't expect him to be as aggressive as Im was. lie did a great job. It was a lesson well­learned." 
Biolchini's uppercuts proved to be too much for Bartles, as the top seed advanced in a unanimous decision. 
Biolchini will face junior Joe "The Kripler" Kippels, who upset No. 4 seed Kurt "The Captain" Kurple, in the semifinals. Two standing-eight counts caused Kurple trouble in the first and second rounds and Kippels was awarded the match 1:50 into the sec­ond round. 
No. 2 seed Don "Juan the Destroyer" Penn was a highlight of the night, tak­ing only 48 seconds to knock out sophomore challenger Chris "The Alabama Slamma" Muro with a strong power right. 
"I didn't expect it at all," said Penn. "I was concerned when he went down. I wanted to make sure he was all right." 
Penn plans to focus on his technique to get ready for the semifinal fight with Tony "The Wayne House of Pain" Polcari. Polcari won a split decision in 
-

an evenly fought match lo upset No. 3 Jeff "The Stranger" Walsh. 
170-Pound Division 
The 170-pound divi­sion had Kerrigan in control of his bout with Chris "The Ring Master" Matassa. Kerrigan 's experience and repeated landed combinations were too much for thf' freshman competitor to handle and the top seed advanc"d to the semis with a unanimous decision. 
Kerrigan will face freshman Paul "Pepe Le Pew" Peterson who overpowered Bill "The Fighting Archy" Ponko in a bloody match-up that ended in a split decision. 
~o. 3 Brian Nestor was put on the defen­sive right away as No. 6 Michael "Honey" Hammes pulled an upset to gain a spot in The Observer/Liz Lang the semifin a Is . Second seeded Steve "Angel of Death" Pfeiffer moved on with a victory over Stephen "Berzerkel" Beuche. 
Hammes threw several crosses in the second round to defeat Nestor in a unanimous decision. 
Tom "The Wire" Dehmer edged out challenger Eric "Canvas Back" Hovan in a split decision. Hovan proved to be tough competition for the No. 2 seed Dehmer, who was given a standing­eight count in the first round and dropped to his knee against a con­trolled Hovan in the second. 
In the 175-pound division, top-seed Hobbins gained a victory over No. 8 seed Michael "The Hitman" Halloran 39 seconds into the third round. Halloran suffered a blow to his left arm in the first round which affected his fighting. 
"My hat goes off to Mike," said Hobbins. "He got me to fight a lot clos­er than I would have liked to. It's just too bad that he was hurt early on." 
Hobbins quick in-and-out technique was key in the win. Hobbins will face No. 5 Trent "Kid Kokomo" Sandifur in the semis on Wednesday. Sandifur's aggressive offense proved to be no match for No. 4 Michael "Woody" Wilson. It took only 1:01 and two standing eight-counts for Sandifur to be awarded the win. 
Second-seed Steve "Angel of Death" Pfieffer controlled the ring in his match-up against junior Stephen "The Berzerkel" Beuche. 
Beuche stayed tough the entire match, even after losing his contact early in the third round, but Pfieffer's strong left jabs and landed combina­tions proved to be too much for the No. 7 challenger. 
Pfieffer is set to take on "Gentle" Ben Dillon who upset No. 3 Joe "The Polish tank" Czerniawski in a split decision. 
180-Pound Division 
No. 1 seed Thompson led the 180-pound division, looking confident and in control as he handily defeated Tom "Tommy Gun" Cullen. Thompson's patient technique led to two standing-eight counts for Cullen in the first 
round and a knock-down in the sec­ond. The referee awarded Thompson the win 23 seconds into the second round. 
Thompson will face No. 5 Willie Kent in the semis. Although he faced tough competition from Chris "The Bruisin· Lugan" Viasnoras. Kent upset the No. 4 seed in a unanimous decision. 
No. 2 seed Paul "You Better Recognize Champ!" Chen showed great composure and technique, tak­ing control of his fight against fresh­man Bobby ''I'm Not Dead Yet" Kennedy. The inexperienced Kennedy could not compete with Chen's patient and deliberate punches. Chen won in a unanimous decision. 
Chen will take on No. 3 Mark Criniti, who upset third seed Zach Allen in a unanimous decision. Evenly matched in the first round, Criniti took control of the fight in the second, knocking down Allen and finishing the match with strong technique. 
Winners of Monday's quarterfinals have only a day to prepare for the semifinal matches. 
Strength and endurance will contin­ue to be a huge factor in determining the outcome of the rest of the week's bouts. 



O 
THE
Tuesday, February 23, 1999 page 25
BSERVER 
¦ 135-P0UN0 TO 145-P0UND DIVISION 
Will earns unanimous decision over Fulton 
Hy ALLISON KRILLA As,odatc Sports Editor 
I.a.st night's opc•ning rounds pad;l'd plPnly of' powerful punrlws in t.lw 135-and 145­pound divisions, including thn one! from Tommy Will I.hat SPllt Zac:h Fulton staggnring in tlw first round. 
Will. tlw top send in Urn 145­pou nd division, startnd his <pwst f'or a crown olT right with a unanimous decision vic­lorv ovnr Fulton. Will's vntPr­an ·status shownd in his ability to exncutP tlw jab-right hook c:omhinat.ion, snmling (.'ult.on to thrnn slanding-1\ighl counts, i n r Iud iII g l w o i II tlw l h i rd round. 
"It foll grnal Ito got in tho ring)," Will said. "I was really anxious for tlw light.. !Fulton) was ta!lnr, but I was able to llSI' a good hook and that lwlpNI." 
One of !.hi' most. nxciting l'igh ts of' Urn division followml Will's win. .I unior Jim Shacklett parrwd a split d!lci­sion victory ovnr Anton Kemps that brought the rrowd lo lifn. Sharkl!!tt usnd a slight !wight advantage\ and a longer much lo counttH tho body blows landml by Kemps with jabs or his own. In tlrn third round. K1•mps mounted a furious comnbark. forcing Sharkl(\tl untu tirn rnp~s. but was ulti­1111tlPly outlastncl by tlrn junior. 
Tim 1wxt fight matchnd youl.h wilh oxperiPncn, as l'rPshman llaniel Gonzalnz squarncl off against law stu­dPnt Phil C:astrogiovanni. C:astrngiovanni prnvailnd in a split d!lcision that included two slanding-Pight counts on (ionzalnz, onn in thn l'irst round following a powerful uppercut. Gonzalez showed tlrn most strnngth in tlrn third round, although his attack proved loo litllfl, too late. 
The bouts in the 145-pound division nnclnd where they began with another unani­mous decision. This timP it was junior ofl'iccr Mike Maguire who dnl'cated snnior Mikn Tubay. Maguire and Tubay fought tentatively in the first and second rounds, but Maguire's well-placed hooks found their target more often than not. Both fighters camn aliv<\ in the third round to spark a battle that otherwise lack,id a barrage of' punches. 
H5-Pound Division 
But while the hard-hitting action found its way into the 145-pound division, lhe boxers in thn 135-pound division shed more blood. 
A unanimous decision victo­ry by Marlin Garry over Matt Fumagalli lnl'l the freshman with a bloody nose in a losing effort. Garry, tlrn underdog, landnd a majority of jabs in a controlled and technically sound effort. In the third round, Garry's dominance continued. although the junior did show some signs or fatigue in this year's first time in the ring. 
Top-seeded David "The Prancing Pixie" Seerveld also earned a unanimous decision with a soild performance against John Kakkanathu. 
"My strategy is to prance around the ring and sprinkle pixie dust over my opponent," Seerve!d explained before the light. 

Apparently the plan worked for the senior, who used an effoctive combination and good defensive positioning to control the center of the ring, while keeping Kakkanathu on the ropes. 
The final two bouts of the 135-pound division ended in split decisions, as Daniel Gallegos outlasted Matt Eberly and Charles Madden surprised second-seeded Camilo Rueda. 
Gallegos came out aggres­sively in the first round, and fought his way off the ropes late in the round. Eberly land­ed a few body blows, but couldn't counter Gallegos' jabs and uppercuts. Gallegos also overcame an obstacle that may be detrimental in the coming rounds -a short reach. 
Madden, a Kennan Hall junior, knocked off Hueda in the division's final fight, a back-and-forth effort that 
came down to Madden's aggressive style. Rueda had difficulty on the defensive side, as Madd<m came oul swinging. The Siegfried sophomore land­ed a few jab-hook combina­tions in the first round. but got caught with his hands too low to fend off strong jabs by "The Montana Mauler." 
In a night of hard-hitting action all around, some of thll most powerful punches came from unexpected plac!ls. 

Bouts 
continued from page 28 
190-Pound Division 
Dave "Bell-Vegas" Butz made quick work of Freshman Jon Larson. Larson came out strong but Butz countered with som!l S!lrious combos. Larson was saved by thn bell in tho first round as Butz doliverod some h~avy blows. Larson camn out fast in the second round but Butz was ready to put tlrn fight away. The light was called shortly into thn second round. 
Also in the 190-Pound catego­ry, Dave "The Tank" Shenk beat Matt Turner in a split decision. Adam "Monsoon" June edgnd Luke "Paosano" Brennan in a unanimous decision. Mike "It Hurts More Than it Feels Good" Velten won in a walkover. 
195-Pound Division 
Chris "Lucky" Luochtefold downed Zach "The Pornstar" Schueller 23 seconds into tho second round. Schueller had a tough time getting things going as Luectefcld left him bloody al'lor the first round. 
In a crowd-pleaser, Alex Kent edged K(win Jinks with a strong third round tu earn tlw unani­mous decision. Thn lwo fighters exchanged vicious combos and the outcomo was in question throughout. Kent took control in the third catching .links off bal­ance s!lveral limes. 
Jason ".I-Hod" llodrigu!lz Mrnrd a split decision over Crng "The Salvatini" Joseph to round out the I 95-Pound division. Number onn seed l'!lte "Bnat Uw Rap" Hyan n·c!lived a bye. 
Heavyweight nivision 
At just about midnight, the lrnavyweights rollnd into thn Joyce CentPr. But John "the Pitbull" Salvino rnllnd in like thundnr. Salvino lived up to his vicious nickname, storming into thn ring with an abundance of energy. The energy carriPd him through his first round opponent Sean "Gonna Hoek You Like a Hurricane" Donnrllv. One minutP into first round, Saivino landed a right hook that le l't Donn Plly stunned. The fight would not continue. 
Salvino's en!lrgy and quickness should help him in tlw IH'a vy­weight division. 
In other heavyweight action. Mike "The Bishop" Honwro won a unanimous decision over Knvin "Party Ball" McLean and Cireg "The Hain Man" Yatnrola eanwd a unanimous decision ovPr Pat "Why Am I So Crazy" Dow1ws. Hounding out tlw tWl'ning's rom­petition was Andy "Big Cat" HiPdnrnr ovPr .Id!' "Tlw Wailin' Episcopalian" B.-am in a unani­mous derision. 
-
The Observer/Jeff Hsu 
In the 185-pound division, captain Brian Gaffney disposed of John Norton in the second round. 

page 26 
¦ BASEBALL 
Notre Dame wins season opener, 8-4 

Irish drop three straight to Florida International 
By TIM CASEY 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame baseball team started its season off this past weekend in Miami by recording one win against three losses. 
All three defeats came at the expense of 23rd-ranked Florida International, who 
:;_,,. improved to a perfect 12-0 on the season. The Irish started the season off on a high note on Friday with an 8-4 victory over James Madison. Alex Shillidav was the winning pitche,:, allowing two earned runs with eight strikeouts over seven innings. The senior right-han­der won for the 22nd time in his career, which places him eighth on ND's career wins list. John Corbin finished off the victory by allowing only one run. All-American shortstop Brant Ust provided the offen­sive spark -which he's shown throughout his career -by going 3-for-3, including his 30th career home run. !lead coach Paul Mainieri was happy with his team's performance against James Madison. 
"I thought we played a tremendous game for our first day outside," said Mainieri. "Alex Shilliday got the big outs when we needed them. He and Brant Ust provided the leadership that we will need all season. If we can play as well as we did against them on a consistent basis, we're going to have a good season." 
Florida International provid­ed a tough test in its three­game series, but there were some bright spots f'or the Irish, especially in the starting pitching. 
In the first matchup, starter Tim Kalita allowed only two runs in the five innings he pitched, before FIU blew it open with 10 runs in the sixth inning to record a 14-1 victo­ry. Freshman pinch hitter Ed Golom homered in his first collegiate at-bat in the sev­enth inning to record the only run of the game. 
Mainieri had high praise for FIU's team. "We ran into a buzzsaw 
... there," he said. "This is prob­ably FJU's most outstanding team in its history. They have a very solid team and their starting rotation completely handcuffed our hitters." 
The middle game of the series was the closest of the three and provided a good pitching battle between Notre
.. 
Dame's combo of Scott Cavey and Chris McKeown and FIU's Raul Garcia. Garcia had the upper hand in the 3-2 victory, by allowing two runs and three hits while striking out 11 Irish batters. Cavey started the game off by allowing three runs with four strikeouts before the lefty McKeown tossed four shutout innings. 
The offensive strugglPs rnn­tin ued for the Irish in the finale of' the weekend. FIU's David Mittauer continued the strong pitching by retiring the first 11 Notre Dame hitters, before Irish catcher Jeff Wagner reached on an infield single. Mittauer, Hamiro Mendez and Peter Kocur pitched a four hitter in FIU's 12-0 shutout victory. 
Sophomore Aaron Heilman, who led the nation in ERA last year as a closer, started for only the second time in his career for the Irish. FIU had four home runs on the dav, including three straight in the bottom of the seventh. 
Despite the losses, coach 
Mainieri remains optimistic 
and said he understands that 
this is only the beginning of a 
long season. FIU had played 
nine games before this week­
end and with the weather in 
Florida, have unlimited oppor­
tunity to work on their game, 
which provides a big advan­
tage over the cold-weather 
teams like Notre Dame. He 
was pleased with his pitching 
staff and feels that they were 
competitive for most of the 
games. 
"ln our situation. I thought we had very good starting pitching performances by all of our starters," said Mainieri. "With them [FTU) being in the warm weather and having played so much already, their 

pitchers were in a lot better shape than ours were. I think 

12 Anytime
the scores were misleading." The Irish travel to New 
you call between 
Orleans on Thursday to take on Missouri. New Orleans and 

5:30 & 7:00,
9
Southern Illinois. They are ready to get out on the field, 

the price of your
Iplay ball and hopefully 
large 1 topping 
improve with each passing game. 
pizza
"We're excited about get­ting back out there," said 
is the time you call. 
Mainieri. "This is a very typi­cal start to the season for us. We go down to the South and 
play some teams that are more ready than we are at that time of the year. We take our lumps but we get better as time goes on. I hope we have the opportunity to meet Fl U in the NCAA tournament. I really believe it will be a different story if we get a chance to meet them after we've been able to play outside for quite a long time." 
Oetu-e/"1~ Tk !Jd!!!:_t Rzza.1 
@3©Gl~ ~ul© ©0©©~ iJ[!]@~cflGl~ijij 
ND store 
27:1-1177 
* Plus tax 
Anytime you call between 
10:30-12:59 
9 
the price of your 2 large 1 
topping pizzas is the time you call. 
* Plus tax 

I Small 1 Topping 1 I 2 Cans of Coca-Cola product I S . t M , /
1 ss.99 1 a,n ary s L-------------.JNorth 
Village Mall 
27:1-PAPA 
Upcoming Events: 
5th Annual Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. Lectures on Ethics and Public Policy 
Martha Nussbaum 
Ernst Freund Professor of Law and Ethics I University of Chicago 
Women and Human Development: 
In Defense of Universal Values Religion and Sex Equality 
Thursday, February 25, 1999 at 4:15 p.m. Friday, February 26, 1999 at 3:00 p.m. 
Hesburgh Center Auditorium University of Notre Dame 

EVERYONE WELCOME! 
Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies (219)631-6970 www.nd.edu/-krocinst 

Tue-sday, Fehruary 23, 1999 The ObserYer • TODAY page 27 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF ND DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

CELE,JJRITIBS BORN ON THIS DAY; Peter Fonda, Diane Varsi, Hele­na Sukova, Marc Price, Johnny Win­ter, Sylvia Chase 
Happy Birthday: You've got everylhing going for you. Now all you have to do is recognize your tal­ents and put them into motion. Talk to those who can help you reach your goals. Favors will be granted. This is not the year to procrastinate, so get those whe<!ls in motion and reach for the stars. The more you put forth, the greater the rewards will be. Your numbers: 14, 19, 24, 31, 37, 40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Put vour emotional problems on the back burner today. More immediate dilem­mas concerning your job are at hand. You may want lo discuss your dil'el"·
BILL AMEND
fOXTROT 
tion with a close friend or relative. 
0000
A~ You SURE DADD'!', IF
1HE WATER'S IT"S ~oT ll-lE
NOW I HA~ To STICK'-"i, SliOOT. THE 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You 
11-ioSE ARE SAY You MAl<E
WARM. SToP \IIATER THAT'S 
will have the stamina to put in the GUPP1ES?-niEY No nlAT LH'IE 
MY ARM IN ANO FIX IT.
PI.AST1C PI.Al'IT CAME 
hours it will take to complete an
WHIN1NG. ToRTURE.
TALI< A8oUT SHEER A&oNY.
LOOSE AGAIN. 
important job. Your loved ones may
Looi( Like MoRE. :To~ oNE 
not fully 1U1derstand your position if
BABY f'sRANHA / MoRE 
you don't explain its importance.
Flsti To ME. nME... 
000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You
I 
will not take criticism lightly. Before you jump to conclusions or retaliate, take a step back and view the situa• tion from a more objective position_ You are a little erratic today, 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): It's time to do some soul-searching. You are so reluctant to let go of the past that you are holding yourself back. You should be out experiencing new things and meeting new people. 000 
LEO Ullly 23-Aug. 2.2): Don't hesi• tate to take a position of leadership when dealing with group functions. You are the best one to delegate who 
DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 
E. u GOD rs M"f WIT
ALLEN I t HAY( TO LUCKILY, I HAVE 
does what. You will attract romantic 
EOI\Y I W!L
EXTRt>.. MONEY !N
CUT Tl-IE SALARY 
THE. FURNITURE ~H0UL0N'T HAV£ HIRED G>UOG(T. 
GUDGET. I PROBABLY 
YOU YESTERDAY. 
CROSSWORD 
55 Amount to make 
ACROSS 30 Caribbean, e.g. 310p­
do with 1 labor's partner, 56 "The Pastoral," 
32 Elsie's chew 
in a garage bill formally
33 Bank earnings: 
6Pro-­59 Big oil company 
Abbr.
(proportionate) 60 Pastrami ptace 
34 Journalists, as a
10 Some urban air &1 River to the 
group
14 Big name at Rhone 
40 "Yo1" 
video arcades &2Glimpsed 41 legal thing
15 Dutch cheese 63 Historical spans 16 No-no: Var. 64 Spanish houses 
42 Org. that gets members17 Homeowners 
reduced motel 
may take them rates DOWNout 
43 H's found in the
20 Uttered 1 Overtaker on theground
21 Corn units road
44 Exchange I do's 
22 Watermelon part 2 "Relax,
oAllthumbs
23 Tee precursor sotdiers1" 49 Made good on, 
24 Author Tyler 3 Bigot
as a loan 
25 Found at this 4 Walked (on) 
s1Jai­
place 5 Confession in a
s2 Baked Hawaiian 
27 Good-as•new confessionaldishtire & Send back to a
53Helpful­
nPutdown, 
lower court slangily 54 Singer Anita 7 like a lot · 
B Sailors 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 Tsp. or tbs. -..--.--.--.--r:-, 10 One step A B R E A C O M E 11 Milk ot-
B R O N P E S 12 Following orders l AN E T T 13 Gloomy guy E N E R 18 like alcohol 
S C ---tc:::-1'-::-D A that's unfit for 

T A O N drinking
---+­
u G 19 Some college F M -+-+T:c+E-1 tests, for short 24 Prefix with E R dynamic ---t-4--t-N-+A-1 25 Treehouses and such 
Archibald 
L Abbr 

Puule by Elizabeth C. Gorski 
29 Comment made 47 Spots for while slapping speakers the forehead 
48 Spade pieces 32 Pennies: Abbr. 
50Susanof 
34 Comic book "Goldengirl"
superhero 
51 Writer~­
35 "I agree!" 
Rogers St. 
36 Lens Johns 
37 Sunburned 38 H. H. Munro's 
pen name 
at The Observer
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
39 Playing marble 
are available by touch-tone phone: 44 "Get--it!" 1·900-420-5656 (95i per minute). 45 Singer Annual subscriptions are available for the 
in the basement of SDH. 
Morissette best of Sunday crosswords from the last 4fi Peaks 50 years: 1-888·7-ACROSS 
Birthday Baby: You are an original character who witl attract a great deal of attention throughout your life. Your outgoing personality will enable you to reach the success you desire. You will have no trouble making your mark in the world. 
¦ OF INTEREST 
Kellogg Institute for International Studies ­Author, journalist and former dancer Alma Guillermoprieto will present The Samba Lecture on Wednesday evening at 7 p.m. in the auditorium of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
Wanted: 
Strip cartoonists and one--panel cartoonists. 
54 Dispatcher's 
Submit three to five 
word 55"Mona--" 56 Undergrad 
examples of your work 
degrees 57 Poem of praise 58 [their mistake, not 
to Michelle Krupa 
mine] 
I partners easily. 0000 VIRGO (Aug. 23•Sept. 22): Don't take life too seriously today, You may lose a good friend if you are stubborn and refuse to let them be who lhey are_ You have to be 
understanding, not judgmental, in emotional situations. 00 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Com• munication will be informative and heir clear up confusin~ issues. You wil have the ability to pick up know!• edge rapidly, so attend seminars that wiU be informative. 00000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take 
the lime to help someone who has been less fortunate than you_ Legali· ties will appear to be more pressing today Try nol to be forced into sign­~ocuments you are uneasy about. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your outgoing nature and self-confi­dence will attract both friends and lovers. Opporturuties to get involved in competitive activities should spark your interest. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19); 
Don't mix business with pleasure. You witl not be in the mood to please both client and lover. You wi!l also put yourself in a position to ruin y9ur reputation with colleagues. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Make those personal changes you had in mind_ The warmer season is almost here. It's time to get in shape. Love interests are blossoming and the thought of having children is stronger. 00000 
PISCES <Feb. 19-March 20): This can be a profitable day if you concen­trate on work or career changes. II is best to keep your thoughts to your­self_ Someone dose at hand may steal your idea. 00 
.... 
-

f ebruary 25 -Intramural Deadline~ 
IN 12" SOFTBALL (M & W) GRAD/FAC/STAFF SOFTBALL CAMPUS FLOOR HOCKEY IH SOCCER -WOMEN 

RecSports Office Rolfs Sports Recreation Center Register Your Team at RecSports!
1-6100 • http:/ /www.nd.edu/-.recsport 
-


¦ Full coverage oflast ¦ Ninth-ranked Irish night's Bengals Bouts dose out regular season quacterfina1s at home against the 
Hurricanes. 
p.23-25
PORTS 
p.20 
page 28 
Tuesday, February 23, 1999 

¦ FOOTBALL 
Notre Dame names West new defensive backfield coach 
Virginia Tech coach joins Davies staff, replaces McMahon 
By TIM CASEY Spnm Wrirer 
The Notre Dame football team wel­rnmed another addition to its depleted eoaching staff yesterday when it named Virginia Tech's Lou West to 
-
rl'place Tom l\frMahon 
~~--~ as defensive backfield coach. 
West has strong ties with tlrn coaching staff lrnre at Notre Dame. He coached with defonsive coordinator Greg Mattison while both wen' at Western West Michigan in 1984-85 and also was a graduate assistant 
.. 
alongside head coach Bob Davie at Arizona in 1977. 
Whill' at Virginia Tech, West coached one of the nation's finest secondaries. ln 1998, the llokies ranked fourth in the nation in scoring defense and 11th in pass efficiency defense on their way to a 9-3 record. They ended the year ranked 19th in the Associated Press poll and 23rd in the USA Today/ESPN poll. 
He has coached some star players in his career, including two first-team all­Big East selections from last year, cor­n erhack Loren Johnson and safety Pierson Prioleau. While at the University of Cincinnati (his alma mater) in 1993, he coached defensive backs Chris llrwitt and Sam Garns who were starters in the NFL in '98 with the New Orleans Saints and New York Giants. respectively. 
West takes over for McMahon, who after four years at ND will bet:ome defensive coordinator for Colorado. 
Taking the job did not come without thought, according to West: "It was a tough decision. The peoplr, there at Virginia Tech were very good to me. I enjoyed working with the staff. The administrative people, the fans, the boosters and the alumni all treated you well. lt was tough to leave. I had some good times there as far as the program winning and getting along with people in the community." 
Despite missing the atmosphere at Virginia Tech, West is excited to begin his new job and relishes the opportuni­ty t.o coach at a quality University. 
'Tm excited about being here," said West, a 45-year-old native ol' Washington, Penn. "I look forward to working with not only the football staff, but the people in the athletic department as well. I think it's a great opportunity. I think it's a goal of mine to coach at the best institutions that I cau and Notre Dame is certainly one of' those institutions." 
Notre Dame returns a solid sec­ondary to case the transition for the new coach. Deke Cooper, Deveron Harper, Brock Williams and Tony Driver all saw significant minutns last year, while safety A'.Jani Sanders will most likely return for a fifth ytiar to strengthen the defensive backfield. 
Frnshman Clifford Jefferson, along with highly touted recruits Albert PoreH and Gfirome Sapp should also add to the mix and see somn time. West feels that these players will form a solid nucleus to competn on the national scene next year. 
"I've heard some good things about a lot of tlw players that are coming back. I feel that we've got some good ath­letes in tlw s1)condary, some guys that are hungry and want to get out and contribute," said Wf\St. "With some good leadership, they can rontinue to improve and hopefully get to our goal of competing for a national champi­onship." 


¦ 185-POUND TO HEAVYWEIGHT DIVISIONS 
Romanchek 
advances to 
semi-finals 
By KEVIN THOMPSON Sports Writer 
It was quick but it was painful. 
At least that's the way it looked through 
the 185-Pound division bracket last night in 
the Joyce Center. The favorites advanced as 
only one bout went to a decision. 
The first victory went to Bengal Bouts cap­
tain Brian "The Nutty Irishman" Gaffney. 
Gaffney disposed of John "Rambo" Norton 45 
seconds into the second round. Norton 
attempted to take it to Gaffney from the out­
set but to no avail. The top-seeded Gaffney 
con trolled throughout. 
Also in the 185-Pound category, Mike "El 
Pescador" Homanchek ended Tim "Pretty Fly 
for a White Guy" Christ early. The usually­
patient Homanchek took no time with Christ. 
The fight was called 1:08 into the first round 
when Romanchck landed a vicious right to 
Christ's head. 
Tonight's results put the patient, calculat­
ing. Romanchek and the untamed Gaffney on 
a collision course for the finals. 
Thesf' two will have to make it through Ben 
"Buster" Johnson and Cornv ''I'll make vour 
face look like mine" Clay. Johnson took Josh 
Nelson to the final bell to post a unanimous 
decision. Clay was impressive in the opening 
round pummeling .James Qualters. A power­
ful right hand left Qulatcrs reeling. Qualters 
had enough only 2~ seconds into the first 
round. 

see BOUTS/ page 25 
Junior Mike Romanchek delivers a strong left to knock down Tim Christ en route to a quarterfinal victory on Monday night. 

·vs.Miami, 

vs. Iowa, 
Men's and Women's 
Tonight, 7 p.m.
SPORTS 
Wednesday, 3 p.m. 
Swimming 
at Big East Championships, at Sr. John's, vs. Northern Michigan, Thursday -Saturday Wednesday, 8 p.m. Friday, 7 p.m. 
ATA 
GLANCE 






