
Must-See TV? 
Drink and be merry? 
Scene takes a look at the downfalls In Focus examines the bar scene in South Bend 
Wednesday
ofNBC's fall Thursday night line-up. after student arrests at bars like Bridget McGuire's and Irish Connection.
page 10 
SEPTEMBER 29, 
page 3-4 
1999 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIII NO. 26 HTTP://OBSERVER.N D.EDU 

University faces lawsuit from injured football fan 
:\!l-.oc1atcd Press Letitia llaydcn from tho "Nolre Dame well a souvenir." Notre Oame contended that criminal acts of a third party. Hayden and her husband, the action of the person who
understands and benefits 
INDl/\1\JAPOLIS Tim appeals r.ourt said William. were sitting behind injured Hayden was unfore­
from lhe enthusiasm of
A woman injured by sonw­Notre Dame should have the goal post in the south seeable and it therefore onr, lunging for a ball in tile foreseen that injury would the Jans ofits end zone Sept. 16, 1995, owed no duty to anticipate it stands during a Notre Dame l i kc Iy rn s u It from p Pop I e when one of the teams and protect her.
football game." 

roothall gamn l'.an proceed lunging for f'ootballs in the kicked a football toward the The appeals court said with hor lawsuit against the stands and taken reasonable goal. there was nvid1rnce of many
Indiana Court of Appeals 

University, the Indiana Court stnps to prevent it. llayden is Several people lunged for prior incidents in which peo­of' i\ppi!als rulPd Tuesday. seoking unspecified dam­the ball and one of thorn ple wen~ jostled or injured by Tho dncision rnvcrscd a ag<1s. struck Hayden from behind, fans trying to retrieve balls. 
mous ruling said. "It is just
lower court ruling that dis­"Notre Dame well under­fracturing her left shoulder Notre Dame lawyers
such enthusiasm that drives
missnd the lawsuit on stands and benefits from the and collarbone. She sued the William Hoye and Jill 
some spectators to attempt to
grounds that Notre Darn;i did enthusiasm of the !'ans of' its University for failing to exer­Bodensteiner weren't avail­
retrieve a football to keep as
not owe a duty to protect football game," the unani-cise cate to protect her. able for comment. 
Coll: Women play vital role in Church 
By ERIN PIROUTF.K 
N~w., Writer 
Tlwrn is no critical issue 111' tlrn Church which is not a critical issun for women, said Sister Hegina Coll in h <) r TuPs­day l1!c­t urn, 
.. w () ­
Ill C 11 
and the Catholic· Chur­ch." 
Co I I cl i s ­cussed Llw Church's del'in­ition ol' women, thn lack of' recognition ol' women's contributions to the c:lrnrch ancl the c\xrlusion of' womPn l'rom ordination. 
"Through the centuries, womnn have lin1)11 dd'innd by what tlwy do and don't do with their bodies," said Coll, citing tho categorins of female saints: virgin, martyr, wic\ow and nei­tlwr virgin or martyr. She also cited the popt:'s might hav11 desirod to be ordained lrncame tlrn11lo­gians. "You havn only to look at the women in thr. Dnparlnwnt of Theology to S<'l1 what advances have been made." 

The Notre Dame Study on Parishes found that the vast majority of' the min­istry is done by women, Coll explained. "The p<lo­ple who conduct HCIA, the people who am leaders of Bible study, the people who visit the handicapped are overwhelmingly women," slrn said. 
Despite contributions women are making to parishes, they do not receive the financial sup­port l'or education that male seminarians receive f'rom parishes and dioce­ses, she said. 
Coll also discussed the exclusion of women from ordination. 
"It comes from the f'irst two issues -seeing wonrnn only as bodies and !'ailing to see women's spirittial and theological contribu­ti O ll S," 


d P fin iti o 11 "It is an unintended she said. of mater­"Scrip­
blessing, perhaps, that
nity and ture alone 
women were not
virginity is not as the two ordained." ,mough to vocations exclude or womnn. the possi­
Sister Regina Coll 
C o I I bi Iity of noted a professional specialist, theology ordaining 
similarity between thn Church's views to the "l'layboy mentality," of defining women on the basis of' their bodies. 
"Tliey unwittingly sup­port r.ach other," slw said. 
Cnll also said the Church fails to recognize the con­tributions of' women. 
"It is an unintended blessing, perhaps, that women w,ir,~ not ordained," said Coll, not­ing that many womnn who 
.. 
worn en, 
Coll said, observing that although Scripture gives no indica­tion that Josus ordained women, it also gives no indication that Jesus ordained men. 
Coll also attacked the argument that the priest­hood. as a symbol of Christ, is limited to males. She said Jesus' humanity was significant, not his 
see COLL/page 6 


Panel discusses pregnancy options 
By KA TE WALTER 
News Writer 

Panelists provided informa­tion on options available to pregnant students at Notre Dame, which can help comfort expectant mothers and lessen the overwhelming feeling of impossibility that exists for many of them. 
Aiming to dispel the various perceptions surrounding preg­nancy at :'Jotre Dame and fos­ter better communication about on-campus support cen­ters available for exp ec tant mothers, student groups Jus Vitae, Feminists for Life and ND/SMC Right to Life spon­sored a discussion Tuesday. 
"When a woman finds out that she's pregnant, she often considt1rs it an overwhelming task and something that she cannot handle,., said Sister :vtary Louise Gude, assistant vice president for Student Affairs. 
The program featured a panel that included junior Lynette Vargas, a student mother, and representatives from six campus facilities that offer support for pregnant stu­dents including Student Affairs, University Health Services, the lniversity Counseling Center, rectors, Campus Ministry and the off­campus Women's Care Center. 
The major misconception conceroing pregnancy at Notre Dame is that pregnant students are required to move; off campus, Gude said. 
"This is a given," she said. offers support through numer­"J\. woman who is pregnanl ous heallh care and counsel­can stay in the dorm until she ing groups. married or has tho child." University Health Services 
Vargas now resides at offer free, confidential preg­University Village with her nancy tests to students, along boyfriend and her 1 l/2-year­·with referrals to counseling 
old son. Vargas spoke o[ the groups, said Ann Thompson, increased financial aid that the department's director. she now receives from the While Health Services does University as a single mother, not provide obstetric care, as well as the fact that her they will contact off-campus rent and telephone bill are facilities and provide trans­taken out uf her student portation to such facilities. account. Dormitory rectors, partici­
In addition to the housing pants agreed, are often the provided, the University also first contact students will 
make and are available to offer reassurance to students. They can also help them con­tact -facilities such as University llealth Services. 
In tfte past, dorms housing pregnant students organized baby showers and nffered sup­port to the expecting student, said Gude, who witnessed a baby shower while in resi­dence in Cavanaugh Hall. 
"Life is beautiful no matter how it gets conceived," said Sister Carrie Etheridge, rector 
see OPTIONS/page 6 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, September 29, 1999 

INSIDE COLUMN 

More Hunting, Less Gathering 
In contemporary society, we arc faced with a multitude of problems that plague our everyday lives and affect the common good. This is true even of Notre Dame, where one might assume that the "bubble" protects us from issues we face in the outside world. Some of 
these issues are artually non-issues, such as whining about unchecked f'recdnm of speech or other such "rights" which private insti­tutions have no obligation to uphold. 
But then there are legiti­mate worries, like the over­abundance of vegetarians 
and vegans on campus. The Dustin Ferrell problem is not their exis· tence or their presence on campus, but rather the Assistant injustice done by not expos­Vieu1point ing these students to quality Editor meat. I've seen these poor, iron-deficient creatures around campus trying to convince everyone that tofu really does taste good or that rice is exciting on a daily basis. 
Ihave heard the statistics on how much grass cows eat and how, "ifwe would stop raising them for slaughter, we could eat the grass and be happy." But I am not content with allowing them to make such choices without giving them a full opportunity to enjoy meat. I want these indi­viduals to experience the thrill of dining with the realization that their meals once roamed the earth as living, breathing creatures. 
I feel an invigorating power trip every time I order stir-fry. It simply wouldn't be fair to exclude anyone from such a pleasure, not even the people who used to protest "donkey basket­ball" back in high school. 
For some students, the choice is one of health concerns, due to overstated risks ofeating meat or the simple desire to cut out all fat from their diet. But I say to you that I would prefer one year with ribs and chicken to a lifetime of tofu meat­loaf and garbanzo tacos. 
Others have moral qualms about eating meat, likening it to barbarism and cruelty towards fel­low creatures of the earth. I suggest spending about 10 minutes watching "Animal Planet" when tigers are featured. Then you can guilt trip meat-eaters on this point, or you can break free from your delusional ways. 
It might be of some importance to also note that none of our ancient ancestors were vegetari­ans. That's because all of the PETA fruitloops of the ancient world became tasty low-fat snacks for saber-toothed tigers that had a sweet tooth for gardenburger-eating, David-Spade-body­types who "felt the animals' pain." Unfortunately, it was the type of animal pain that zebras and water buffalo feel on those nature shows with crocodiles. 
The point of this column is to promote a healthy appreciation of feasting on our friends in the wilderness. We are -as we should be ­steak-and-egg-eating, milk-drinking hunters who have a God-given dominion over animals and the right to take advantage of it to sustain life. 
No longer must our big-hearted brothers and sisters suffer in martyr-like anguish over another meal served without poultry or beef. Let your­selves go, and harness the warrior spirit inside you. Take your rightful place in the food chain, let your biceps exceed your wrists in girth, and I'll see you at the steakhouse. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Bill Uniowski Julia Gillespie Kate Steer Graphics Sam Derhetmer Amy Crownover 
Sports Production 
Mike Connolly Rachael Protzman 
Viewpoint Lab Tech 
Brian Hobbins Jeff Hsu 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) i• published Monday ,hrough Friday except during cx:am and va<:ation periods, The Obsc:rvcr is a member of th~ Associared Prt!lis. All reproduction rights are rc-~ervcd'. 
THIS WEEK IN SOUTH BEND 
Today Thursday Friday Saturday 
. Movie: "Marcel . Open Mic: Poetry, . Haunted Scream Park: . Haunted Scream Park: 
Duchamp: In His Own music, theater welcome. Mayflower Rd., Niles, Mayflower Rd., Niles, 
Words", Kras! Art Center. Higher Grounds Coffee 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. 
St. Joseph, noon. House, South Bend, 8 p.m. . "Annie Get Your.Gun": . Coffeehouse Blues: 
. "Plain and Fancy": to 10 p.rn. Round Barn Theater, South Haven Center for 
Round Barn Theater, . "Plain and Fancy": Nappanee. 8 p.m. the Arts. South Haven, 8 
Nappanee, 2 p.m. Round Barn Theater, p.m. to 11 p.m. 
Nappannee, 2 p.m. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports
OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Student faces felony child neglect charges 
TERRE HAUTE, Ind. "The neglect ofa dependent manslaughter carries a lesser penalty An Indiana State University student than child neglect, Walker said. 
charge would probably be a
is facing two felony charges in con­Sims, who police say is the daugh­nection with the death of her sister's · more serious crime than a ter of Margaret Nailer, was pro­baby, homicide charge. " nounced dead Monday at University 
Junior general industrial technolo­Apartments, 201 Crawford St., after gy major Deborah Nailer, 21, was campus police responded to a 911
Jim Walker

charged with two Class B felonies call. Friday in Vigo Superior Court Vigo County prosecutor chief deputy An autopsy revealed that Sims died Division 3. from severe dehydration and malnu­Both charges arc for child neglect trition. Tho dehydration resulted
ing her jaw.
of a dependent. Prosecutors say from burns the infant suffered, Amos
Each charge carries a penalty of six
Nailer knowingly deprived the infant, has said. Police say Nailer told them
to 20 years in prison and a $10,000
Pristina Sims, of medical care for she hacl been caring for Sims on a
fine.
burn injuries. Vigo County Coroner varying schedule for several months. 
"Based on the evidence we have at
Dr. Susan Amos has said the child Police aren't expecting to make any
this point, it appears the neglect of a
suffered third-degree burns from a other arrests at this time, Walker
dependent charge, as a B felony,
steam iron two to three weeks before said.
would probably be a more serious
her death. No trial date has been set. but a
crime than a homicide charge," said
The second charge stems from an bond reduction hearing was sched­
Jim Walker, Vigo County prosecutor
incident where prosecutors allege uled for Judge Dexter Bolin's court­
chief deputy, after the hearing. 
Nailer struck Sims with a belt, break-room at 9 a.m. on Oct. 12.
A charge such as involuntary 
Prank caller fools ticket-hungry fans 
Protesters want charges dropped 

AMES, Iowa 
BERKELEY, Calif. 

When something sounds too good to be true, it prob­
More than 100 demonstrators converged outside the

ably is. That's a lesson many people learned when 
University of California-Berkeley's California Hall

they received calls offering free Iowa State football . 
Thursday to challenge the legitimacy of university and

tickets from someone pretending to be from campus 
criminal charges filed against students involved in last

radio station KURE 88.5 FM. As many as 100 to 200 
semester's ethnic studies protests. The "Barrows Eight," 

people may have received this prank call in the past 
part of a group of more than 50 students who were

few weeks, said Justin Hesse, KURE sports director. 
arrested during the occupation of Barrows Hall in April, 

Several of them even stopped by the station looking 
are being charged with various offenses ranging from

for their tickets, said Hesse, sophomore in meteorolo­
resisting arrest to assault. Seven of the students are also

gy. "Once in a while they would pop into the station, 
facing possible disciplinary action from UC-Berkeley's

and l would explain that we're sorry, but we have 
Office of Student Conduct. On Sept. 8, membnrs of the 

nothing to do with the hoax that's going around," he 
third world Liberation Front submitted a letter to

said. Hesse said five people came to KURE thinking 
Chancellor Robert Berdahl that demanded he drop

they had won tickets to the Iowa State-University of 
charges against the students by Tuesday. The letter also 

Iowa game during his radio show a few weeks ago. 
requested that Berdahl use his influence to have the

Sharlene Macatangay, KURE music librarian, said two 
criminal charges dropped. Rafael Greenblatt. a third

people stopped by last Friday expecting tickets to the 
world Liberation Front member, said he thinks it is 

game against Kansas State. All the calls were probably 
unfair that the eight demonstrators at the rally are being

made by one person, said Macatangay, junior in 
singled out. "I think that ultimately this is a fight against 

industrial engineering. "He was bored, probably. 
the way the police act on anyone who speaks up against

Really lame prank," Macatangay said. 
the state of things," Greenblatt said. 

LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
,..,.,,._., __ 
-~., .. 
r·,...,~"~., 
i 
Wednesday ~· 

, ......... '"'""'' 
Thursday ~ F.ridaY,, S.atur.d_.·. ay a",·,.,·';, ............................... 
tC 1999 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
P,vssu,.: ,,.,,_, 
® © . CJ IT:J [ill till m o \iM)W, ,J&~, 
High Low Showers Rain T-storma Flurrlea Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy
Sunday , /t, 1:JP{ 
Vin A.ssocisted Press 
J...,,.,t··....t"--··,~·....,/' '·..,r" 
Atlanta 70 52 Las Vegas 90 60 Portland 71 45 Baltimore 69 46 Memphis 78 49 Sacramento 77 55

q_~_~q~~(f ~a 
Boston 70 62 Milwaukee 64 46 St. Louis 69 52 Showers T-storms Rain Fl~;,ies S~o·~ Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy Chicago 64 45 New Yori< 67 52 Tampa 86 71 Via A.5SOCiared Press GraphiGSNet Houston 78 50 Philadelphia 69 50 Wash DC 68 50 

Wednesday, September 29, 1999 page 3 
The Observer looks at the status ofbars that lost their liquor licenses and are now non-alcoholic




OCUS 
establishments. 

A bi-weekly feature from The Observer News Department This Week: Underage drinking and the alternatives 
Freshmen attribute underage drinking to lenient policy 
Hy MATT BUNDA New, Wrirn 
!\,(any of' thP studi>nts drinking on Notr!' Danw's ca111µus arc u11drragc. 
Sluch•nts, at l<>ast many undnrr.lassmen. pack into dorm rooms with loud dancP and rap music or in a calnwr setting with couclll's and quiPtC'r music wit.h pcopln talking; rn, mattt,r whal t!rn srnne, drink­ing alc111l11I is usually i11volv11cL 
CasPs ol" inPXpPnsive b,·Pr oft,in are slwLtlPd inlo dorms. supplit'.d by uppcr­dassnwn as 1woplP lwgin to arrive and sign in for dorm partins, which consl.itutP many of' tlw undnrng.-drinking on cam­pus. 
!l£1orns are nmpticd out, strolw and blad; lighls arn hung 11mtr tlw coiling, and stuchmls prqJan• for tho nwnings' fostivi­tics. Muny sludt\llls host their own par­tins, or makP tho rounds to snveral parties in diffen~nl dorms, ollnn drinking a new drink at Pil('h parly. 
Frnshman Tony Carnny is f'amiliar with tlw situation. 
Canwy's room is commonly used as the parly room for friPnds in Llw dorm. The partins am wdl-suppliml and well-attf1ml­Pd, and Tony is a willing and magnani­mous hosl. 
But Carnny is an nxcnption lo the rule: IIt• doesn't drink. 
"I don't havl' to drink lo have fun. but if ot.lu•r pnoplc want to drink lo have fun, that's rnol," lw said. "I am more internsl­mf in pPoplP having fun. Pcoplr am di-ink­ing, but thny'rp not being stupid and throwing up anti gPtting sloppy, thny're danr.ing and having a good time." 
Frnshman tvlark Stralka said modera­tion is k•T 
"It's tlwrP, availabk, !'1111, and it loosens you up. It's f'inP as long as you don't drink too much," he said. 
Sonw first ymtr students have discov­cnid alcohol is readily. But. with case of access. abuse and in:csponsiblr, drinking could quickly ensue. 
''I've heard really sordid stories of peo­
"Drinking is something that is fun to do responsible to complying with Indiana when compared to other universities. ple waking up from a night of drinking every so often, lo help you forget about criminal law regarding alcohol possession "Notre Dame's official policies are more wtmring someone else's clothes or not the stress of papers and tests, but it's and use, but the University will enter a lenient than at other universities, they
knowing whnrn their underwear is," said 
ridiculous to go out and always get student's dorm room for enforcing this [the policies] make it easy to get alcohol freshman Sam I lillanl. smashed," said freshman Lauren law only if drinking in the room becomes and easy to party. At other schools alco-Some find drinking can be an escape 
Wendeln. public in any way. Some students feel that from daily stresses. · 
According to du Lac, students are the University's alcohol policy is softer see UNDERAGE/page 4 


Former bars find non-alcoholic market 
By KYLE ANDREWS 
NtwsWrittr 
Tlw picnic tables am gone, replaced with coml'ortabl1\ chairs and couches. The pPrpctually sticky brick floor has been rPpht('NI and llw brass bar removed. 
But thcrn's nu mistaking the location; the logomlary conlinos of Molly McGuire's still sr.nd shivnrs of' rlPja vu through any Not.rn Dame junior or senior. 
Hriclgnt's may huvo b(ien shut down as a South waltiring hole. but the little non­alcoholic sister who rnplacml her is doing just li1w. 
Onu y1iar aflor opening, Molly McGuire's has socurecl its niche among arna eaterios. 
"I like this business IJNtcr," says Karen Bmwr owner of Molly McGuire's. "I have three tec:nagers and they all work here from timn to time." 
The renovations, which took nine months to complete, began three days af'ter the fated Jan. 30, 1998 raid that shul down Bridget's. 
In the days aft(ff the raid, Bauer got the idoa for a coffee house after soeing a 
Starbucks. 
She and her husband visited coffee houses all over the country tu get ideas. Other owners of java hut were very will­ing to share their ideas and opinions, which made the whole process a lot easi­er. 
They decided to go with a homey atmosphere -the closest South Bend can get to your grandmother's house, minus the plastic on the furniture, Bauer said. 
"Notre Dame students are from all over the country, We wanted a place where the students could feel at home," she explained. 

The renovation, done by the owners themselves, certainly was not easy. Aside from aesthetic changes, the entire kitchen had to be upgraded to allow for a dramat­ically inr.reascd menu, Bauer said. 
Structurally. the restaurant remained the same, aside from the brick floor and the brass bar. 
The menu was upgraded to include a full line of sandwiches, salads and w~ge­tarian options, along with a variety of 
see BARS/page 4 
ND plays sillall role in bar raids 
By MATT SMITH News Writer 
Karen Bauer will never forget .Ian. 30. I998. Ncithllr will the numerous undc:rag0 students dam;­ing and drinking in her bar that night. 
Tho co-owner of Brirlget McGujre's Filling Station watched police officers raid the bar and later confiscate her liquor license. 
"They found minors that night, but my question is, 'Where 

see BRIDGET'S/page 4 
~-­
page 4 Ihe Observer . IN FOCUS Wednesday, September 29, 1999 

Bridget's 
continued from page 3 
did all the fakf~ lD's come from?"' asked Bauer, who changed the bar into Molly McGuire's Coffee House. "The technology is just too good."' 
Bauer is not sure why that particular night was chosen for the raid.But she has her suspi­cions. 
She said she bas heard rumors that other bars were jealous of Bridget's business aml alerted pojice that under­age people were bt"ing served alcohol. 
She said she also heard that complaints came from a diffor­ent source. 
"I've hearrl there were two phontc! calls made that night requesting raids. I've he-ard [the rumor] about Notre Dame being involved, but I really don't know anything for cer­tain." Jeff Shoup. din~ctor of resilience life, sa.id Bridget's was well-known for serving people younger than 21. 
"It didn't take a rocket scien­tist to know they were serving minors anyway," Shoup said. "But was it us who called Bridget's that night? No." Chuck Hurley, of the Notre Dame security department, shed light on the controversy. 
"On a few occasions, we have warned police that bars have large numbers of underage drinkers," Hurley said. "That was the case with Bridget's." 
As for the reason that night was chosen, Hurley said that the South Bend police waited for a night when a large under­age crowd was anticipated. 
He also said that some rec­tors came to Bridget's in the weeks before the raid. "They saw students they knew that were obviously freshmen," he said. 
At any rate.' Bauer said she "will never sell liquor again," even though she is currently in a legal process to get the estab­lishment's liquor licence back. 
A liquor licence often war­rants a higher selling price in a city which is no longer issuing new liquor licenses, such as South Bend. They can go for around $30,000 in South Bend, but up to $100,000 in Mishawaka. 
As part of the hearing to gain her license back, Bauer said that there is a chance that "all the kids who were caught [drinking underage] might be called back to court to prove that they had showed some form of ID to a bouncer." 
Regardless, the memory of Bridget's lives on in the minds of many Notre Dame upper­classmen and alumni. "Every football weekend," Bauer said, "drunk alumni come in and get mad at me when I tell them we're not a bar any longer." 
The Irish Connection, or !CONN. is a more recent exam­ple of a bar with legal troubles. 
On Nov.12.1998, the bar was raided by South Bend police, and has never been t.he same. After inqueries by the police on different occasions. !CONN also lost its liquor license. 
Now it operates as a club without alcohol, catering to underage students. 
Leou Townsend, !CONN owner. said South Bt>nd police have 1.reaterl his bar unfairly, using a few fights on !CONN propr~rty as an excuse to issue the establishment with "failurr to kt>ep a high and fine reputa­tion." Townsend said race came into play in the police departmt'nt's choice of which bars to raid. 
"When white guys owned I hi? 
business a few years ago," he said, "their .licenses were renewed without a problem. But when I became owner again, for Saturday nights I tried to attract a black crowd that used to go to V.I.P. [a club with a predominantly black crowd. that was shut down last year]. 
"A police officer came to me in October of last year, and told me that the V.1.P. crowd could not start coming to !CONN," Townsend added. "They came anyways, and our bar was raid­ed." 
Finnigan's is another dance­oriented bar that has not manv encounters from South Rend police. 
"We am always worried about !trouble from the South bend police I, but we do our best to hire bouncers who check !D's well." said Dawn Kendall, manager of Finnigan's. 
She said that Finnigans' secret, which has allowed them to never get raided, is to cater to an older crowd. Kendall said they do this by offering "college seniors only night," and other specials aimed at upperclass­men from the University. 
HoweYer, Kendall secs trou­ble for bars in the f11lure. "1 think Igetting shut down] will happen to more bars. I've heard that they are really cracking down. Who is 'they?' Nolre Dame. There are always rumors you hear about Notre Dame giving tips," she said. 
Shoup handles many off-cam­pus concerns. "We actually have a specific path for that [underage drinking] informa­tion," he said. "If I hear about a certain bar catering to an underage crowd, I tell Notre Dame security my concerns." 
"Security are more friendly with South Bend police, and they talk to [the police) as a courtesy," he added. 
Hurley made it clear that the security department contacts South Bend police to get names of arrested students for the Univerity disciplinary depart­ment contact with South Bend police is in getting names of arrested students for the university's disciplinary depart­ment, Shoup's residence life. Hurley said that only rarely does the department suggest that South Bend police take a look at a certain bar.' After get­ting a list of arrested students from Hurley, Shoup meets with these students, who are often the most helpful tipsters. 
"Say you went to Finnigan's last night, and you got drunk, got in a fight, and you got arrested," he said. "Then you would meet with me. Kids who got busted give us our informa­tion most of the time." 
Sometimes the police don't have plans to raid a bar, but something happens there that brings the establishment to their attention. 
"If there is a fight or stabbing in the vicinity, the police will find that the culprits were in a certain bar minutes before a fight," Shoup said. "Then some­times they will raid the bar." 
Shoup and his office play an active rule in some off-campus activities, including keeping a watrh on off-campus student housing. "We have to respon<l if we are having problems some­where. If we hear intoxicated pnople are geUing mugged, we will call Lafayette scrurity. for instance, and ask them to be more aware of their surround­ings." 
Shoup recognized that some things arc be'yond Notre Dame's reach. 
"Living in the real world loff­rnmpus!," he said, "somelimes it's just 'if you get in Lrouble, you get in trouble."' 

Bars 
continued from page 3 
cold beverages. Of course, this is in addition to an impressive array of r,offees and teas. 
"The health inspector says we're one of the cleanest restaurants in the county," Bauer proudly added. That includes the notorious bath­rooms -which any true patron of Bridget's c:an remem­ber vividly. 
As for the clientclc, students still remain a large part. The coffee shop is also frequPntPd by members uf the medical community, owing to Hrn large number of doctor and d<'ntist offices nearby, as well as St. Joe's Medical C,mter. 
"We do get a lot of students. Al night there's a lot of study­ing going on," Bauer said, adding that she normally turns down t.he music if people are studying. "If someone had told me I'd be doing this now, I'd say they were crazy," Baliflf said. 
Although the money isn't the same. the restaurant has s-ur­vived its first year -the tradi­tional test for eateries. This can perhaps be attributed to the fact that Molly's is one of the few restaurants of its kind in the South Bend ania. 
Another. more recent convert to the non-alcoholic scene is Irish Connection. Earlier this year management decided to place its liquor license in escrow after a disagreement with the Indiana Alcoholic Beverage Commission about a fight outside the establishment. 
"It's gradually picking up," said Irish Connection owner Leon Townsend on business since tJw changeovnr. "Surprisingly, there's a lot or under 21 people that just want to go to dance. It's not so much the alcohol. 
"Drinkers really didn't partic• ipate. Tlrny just stood there drinking. It's more of a carefree atmosphere now -people just having fun," Townsend said. 
"From the standpoint of see­ing people have fun, this isn't a bad way to gu. It could be a blessing in disguise," he added. 
As an added bonus, !CONN also experiences less probh1ms with disorderly conduct from 
its patrons, Townsrmd said. The 
main challenge is having to 
generate revenue solely 
through cover charges and var­
ious games and concessions. 
Surprising !CONN managers, 
many ovcr-21 students visit 
!CONN lo dance after they've 
becm to other bars, he said. 
"We still have about 10 per­.cent of our customers over 21," 
he explained. "Not drinking is 
not as big a problem as people 
think," Townsend said. 
"Dancing is what's attracting 
thorn." 
The nstablishment's atmos­
phere remains largely 
unchanged, with two dance 
floors and a bar-like scene. In 
lieu ur alcohol, they now serve 
frozen drinks like virgin 
daiquiris and margaritas, as 
well as smoothies. 
As far as food, they have hot­
dogs, cheeseburgers and 
nachos. 
"Thursday night still seems to 
be the popular night for stu­
dents." said Townsend. 
"In spite of the talk that stu­
dents can't have f'un without 
alcohol, I've rrrnt a bunch that 
have proved that wrong." 
Townsend said. 
alcohol on our own apparel" said Hillard. 
Non-drinkers sometimes find themselves feeling alienated at parties. 
"The same people who during the week arc good for profound conversation, on the weekend, act like idiots," said freshman Brian Hartman. 
Alternatives to the alcohol culture are sought. The group Flipside offers alcohol-free entertainment 
"There are many things to do and go to on campus," Schmidt said. 
"People can overlook them easily, but going to perfor­mances like the recent 'Second City' production was as fun as most parties," he said. 

Underage 
continued from page 3 
hol is officially not allowed in dorm rooms." sophomore Steve Cantu points out. 
As some freshmen have already discovered. rectors and residence advisors are quick to act when someone drinks irre­sponsibly and is in physical risk. 
"It's good to have a rector who lives down the hall in case someone is out of control, which can happen with inexperienced people drinking," said freshman Jason Mathias. 
Still, at least a few people said soft rules are a contradiction when compared to other University policies. 
"It's funny how we hol<l our behavior to such high standards in some areas and then ignore a nation-wide law," freshman Jessica Schmidt said. 
There are others on campus in opposition the student body's focus on drinking as its prima­ry form of entertainment. 
The alcohol culture can be seen in piles of beer cans and bottles in the garbage cans and recycling bins in the dorm to the illegitimate Notre Dame T­shirts with slogans like "Absolut Irish," "Drink Like a Champion Today" and "God, Country, Notre Dame, Beer" seen on countless students. 
"l think it's classless that we identify our University with 


TRANSRACIAL ADOPTION: YES or NO? 

COl\tIE JOIN US FOR FREE DINNER AND DISCUSSION When: Wednesday, October 6, 1999 Where: Center for Social Concerns 
Sponsored by: OMSA R.S.V.P. 1-6841 


-~ 
; 
' 
Two East Timorese nuns comfort each other Tuesday, during a memorial service for nine murdered Timorese civilians, two of which were Roman Catholic nuns. Blame for the massacre has been placed on pro-Indonesian militias who alledgedly carried out the attack over the weekend. 

Indonesian militia kills clergy 
Wednesday, September 29, 1999 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
German woman sues for slave-labor wages 
IIAMBUHG 
Ignoring a court rncommcndation. the city of Ilamburg on Ttrnsday rnf'usm! to pay com­pcnsatinn to a 72-yt>ar-old Polish woman who was f'o1-c(•d by Llw Nazis to work f'or the city. ThP woman's lawyer, (;nrci Wittn, said he would l'hal!Pngc the decision. The llamburg 1.ahor Court nH·11111mmHlocl in August that llrn city pay tlw woman, idcntifinrl only as Slanislava IL t!w 11quivalont of' $6,970 for the l101u-s shn lai>ornd in a kitchen l'or two vnars until (inrmany's s111-rt>nrlN in 1\fay 1945'. The court said it could only nicommencl -not ordl'r -llw paynwnt sirn:P tlrn woman had 1rn proof' slw had worknd for Uw l"ity, Whiln tlw city rPl'lls"d to pay, meml.rnrs of the ciLy assP111bly l'Oil!'ctPd private donations totuiing $~.8')!i to lw paid to llw woman, who is in poor hnalth. SixlPl'll major Gl'rman comp,1­11iPs ar1• in rwgoliations to Pstablish a l'und !'or l'ornwr slav(i !11bonirs. 
China drops interest in Panama Canal 
.WASIIINGTON 
Tlw Clinton administration snes nothing to indicalli lhal the Chi1wse have any dnsirn to control thP l'anama Canal, a Pentagon spokPsman said Tuesday in rnsponse to l:on­grPssional 1·orn·prn about a Ilong Kong-basP<l company's nrnnagenwnt of' canal ports. "It's an issue within tlw Panamanian government's control and 0111' that we look at and do not consid<'r lo lw a security issue or a security thrnal to llrn Unitnd StatPs at all," Adm. Craig ()uigfoy said at a l'Pntagon 1wws r.onfonmcn. Panamanian o!Til'ials also have dismissed l'(iars that llw 20-yrar arrangemPnt with llul<'l1ison Whampoa Ud. will give China con­trol ov11r thn watnrwav al'tnr tlw United Statr,s givns up tlw nrnal al t!w end of' the year. 
Chechnya spurs concern at White House 
WASIIINGTON 
Tim Clinton administration is conccrrnicl by an escalation belwnen Hussian troops and r1-lwls in hrPakaway C:hnchnya. and views tlw situation thl:rn as potPntially dPstabilizing, Whito llousP spok1is111an Joe Lockhart said Tunsclay. ilussia lwgan air raids a wenk ago ainwd at pro-indPpnndPncP rnhnls whom the Horis Yeltsin gm:pnrnwnt blames !'or aparl­nwnl bombings in Moscow and otlrnr rncm1t vio!l'nrf'. "I think wP'rn concerned, certainly, with tlw (\s1·.alalion and would view any rPsumplion of' g<'twral lrnstilitins in Chechnya as sonwtliing that would be a throat to tlrn stability of tlll' rPgion," Lockhart said at Ttwsday's brinling l'or rnportnrs at the While IlousP. 

1282.20 
Composite-I. I I 
Volume:
10,275.53 
886,000,000 
VOLUME LEADERS 
i;'18ilta:  U,Cl511!.  !II ClilAWI.I  I Clil611lSil  u:.i:1  
OI.OllAJ., CltOSSIHO  oe1.,x  +l.6250  +6.tiO  -'6,l!i  
AM&PlCA OMLIlff  AOL  +il.6:U(I  ,.e .51  JOj. 75  
MSiPSCAP.I INC  M:JCP  '+5, 6100  •7:l.U  lJ, Bl  
nELL CONPIJ'T'EJI:  DELL  ~a. 1125  -o.u  ,1. B8  
JNTSL, COJ\P  IBTC  -o. ,;,,s  -o ,88  n.so  
CICO SYST&MS  csco  -tO, 2550  t0.J7  Cii!L.311  
MlCROSOn C:OP'P  M'!U'r  -+-0. 6B2'­ .i-0. 75  n.n  
AKAZON, COH UK HCl WORLUCott l.N  IUISN WCOM  +3.317$ +O. Jl50  . 5 .30 +0 .43  GS.881, .19  
COr-!PAQ COMl'UT"ll  CPQ  ""0, 31 :.15  +1. 6&  l:l, Al  


orld 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
EAST TIMOR 

Associated Press 
BAUCAli 
Mourners paid tribute Tuesday to nine people, including two Roman Catholic nuns, killed on a mercy mission to East Timor refugees. 
The victims, whose bodies were dumped in a river, included a 69-year-old Italian nun, Ermina Cazzaniga, who had been in East Timor for 30 years. 
Also killed were a Timorese nun, live church workers and students, an Indonesian journalist work­ing for a Japanese news organization and a local driver. 
"My son has gone so 
Clinton meets with Turkish premier 
quickly. Oh, my God, he's United Nations' behest. dead already," Ana Maria "I don't know why they Gusman, the mother of' a killed our people," the bish­seminary student, cried out, op, dressed in white robes, collapsing in the arms of a said after an emotional mourning memorial nun. service
"My son has gone so
13aucau attended 
Bishop quickly. Oh, my God. he's by 200 Basilio do dead already." weeping Na s c.i -parish­men lo ioners.
Ana Maria Gusmao 
said the F o r k i 11 er s East Timorese mourner years, the belong to C,tlho!ic one of the clergy p r o -was at Indonesian militias that still the forefront of the inde­control much of the coun­pendence movement in East tryside, outside the reach of Timor, making them a spe­the multinational peace cial target of militia wrath force that arrived in East after the province voted to Timor eight days ago at the break away from Indonesia 
the tables with no precondi­tions." 
"What we've soen today is clearly an openness on the part of the prime ministnr to discuss in detail ways that we could move forward," said another o!'firial. Both administration officials spoke on condition of anonymity. 
Mutual help by Greeks and Turks after separate earthquakes caused major damage in bothcountries have raised hopes of an opening to repair relations 
a month ago. Earlier this month, four priests f'ell vic­tim to the militias, two in the capital Dili and two in Suai. 
"People are very upset and angry over this killing," Nascimento said. 
The group was killed Saturday near the town of' Lospalos, where they had gone to distribute food and m1\dicine. 
The journalist -26-year­old Agus Muliawan -had bncn in East Timor for more than two months working on a television doc­umentary on the Falintil, the main pro-independence gunrrilla group, said a col­league al the Tokyo-based Asia Press International. 
so bad tlrn two countries came close to war in 1'J<J(i over a tiny outcropping of rock in the Aegean Sea. 
)'he primary reason for Ecevit's live-day visit to the United States was tu seek more aid for rebuilding from his country's disaster. He was encouragi\d by U.S. plans to begin expanded­trade talks, to look into increasing th11 import of Turkish textiles and to con­sider greater incentives for investment in Turkey. 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Accepting President Clinton's oiler to dispatch a special envoy, the Turkish prime minister raised hopes Ttrnsday for progrrss towards settling a dispute bntwccn Greece and Turkev over the Mediterranean island ofCyprus. 
Wilh relations warming slightly between the neigh­bors at the bottom of Europe, Clinton seized tho opportunity of Prime 
Minister Bulent Ecevit's visit to the White Ilouse to press for U.N.-sponsored talks over the island's future. 
Administration officials who participated in the ses­sion said Ecevit responded by welcoming Clinton's sug­gestion that his special envoy, Al Moses, head to Turkey as early as next week. 
There was no discussion of a framework for the talks, but one official said Clinton stressed that both parties needed "to come to 
page G The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 29, 1999 
CORRECTIONS/CLARIFICATIONS
Options 
continued from page 1 
of Farley Hall. 
Another option for support is the University Counseling Center. which pro­
One off-campus option is the Women's Care Center, which provides practical assistance including free pregnancy tests, referrals, parenting classes, maternity and children's clothing. In addition. those interested may be pro­vided with 
vides advice  "Marriage isn't  assistance in  
for  future  something that we want  finding  off  
parents, both male and  anyone to rush into."  campus housing or  
female.  and  babysitting  
helps  these  Chris Etzel  options,  
students  to  Campus Ministry  according tn  

deal with dif­ficult situa­tions includ­ing talking to families, said Dr. Susan Steibe-Pasalich, assistant director of the Counseling Center. 
Campus Ministry offers assistance to those expecting parents who arc considering marriage as an option. although assistant director of Campus Ministry Chris Etzel stressed the fact that mar­riage is neither required nor 
·pushed. 
"Marriage isn't something 
that we want anyone to rush 
into," said Etzel. 
Coll 
continued from page l 
gender. 
She also noted that Jesus' incarnation transcended his gender. "If maleness is sig­nificant, are we suggesting that maleness is redeemed?" Coll asked, questioning why females could not also serve in Christ's image. 
Juliet  
Rederstor-ff,  
a  student  
volunLeer al  
the center.  
While  a  day  care  center is  

available on campus, care is only provided to those chil­dren who are older than 2, creal.ing a problem for stu­dent parents during the first two years after the child's birth. 
Future goals for the University include improved publication of available facili­ties as well as providing a child care facility for those children under 2 years of age. 
"Think of tradition as a verb, not a noun," said Coll, encouraging each generation and culture to carefully con­sider the teachings of Jesus. "What we have to do is find a way to make the teachings of Jesus dynamic, alive. incar­nate," she said. 
The lecture was sponsored by Lyons Hall and the Committee on Notre Dame's Position on the Ordination of Women. 

TOLEDO, SPAIN 
Informational Meeting With Carmen Nanni 
Wednesday September 29, 1999 SDH Hospitality Room <l:45 

HAPPY 
21st 

BIRTHDAY 



LINDA 
Love Mom, Dad, Lisa and Bob 
The Observer incorrectly identified Molly Kahn as stat­ing "It is a great program for all of us to go and put a little bit of America there," in Monday's Quotes of the Week. Belmarie Gonzalez-Estevez was the correct speaker. 
Walsh Hall rector Patricia 
Thomas was incorrectly iden­tified as Patricia Johnson in Monday's Observer. 
An article in Monday's Observer reported that Zahm Hall students who wore Indian costumes to the Kansas pep rally were disciplined. The students were not formally disciplined, but Michael Fierro, chair of Campus Life Council's Diversity Committee, did complain to Zahm Hall rector Father Jim Lies about the matter. 
.The Observer regrets the errors. 

. 
Work in an internship 

. 
Study Public Affairs 

. 
Fulfill Fine Arts Requirement 


Now 
d gpplicat-Jo
•1Jr, ~& 
"'~' Fall 2000 ~­& 
Spring 2001 
Deadline -Nov. 5th 


,WaslwJgton ~terJn•am 
Open to students from ALL Colleges 
Tuesday, October 5th 
7:30 p.m. 126 DeBartolo Hall 
Prof. Peri Arnold, Director 346 O'Shaughnessy Peri.E.Arnold.l@nd.edu 


Can you make this team? 


ANSWER ~ THECALL W 
Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. 
www.nd.edu/ ~vocation 
Wednesday, September 29, 1999 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 

Nunley: Corporations need ethics compliance prograIDs 
. Government Companies must inform pany to prevent it from hap­does not report an offense. grams then?" said Nunley.their employees of standards pening again. Nunley stated that it takes a Nunley said ethical pro­
fines lessen 
and procedures, he said, such Reporting of wrongdoers has big event for people to begin grams arc worth extra timewhen companies as Information sessions can been one of the greatest to come forward about issues. and money, especially if cor­have own be conducted via instructional obstacles for ethical officers to For example, he said, before porations violate of the law. 
videos, literature and work­overcome, Nunley said. the Clarence Thomas scandal, Fines will be lowered andstandards shops. Some companies have Employees many people penalties will be less strict, 
even used interactive activi­are generally were hesitant she said. Also, the knowledge
ties such as mock game willing to be to report sex­of a program should strength­
By ELLEN FITZGERALD shows. "ff employees trust their
honest but ual harass­
en a company's reputation.
New, Writer 
Nunley said that methods not eager lo management, they will ment. 
"This is what business is all 
like this are more effective turn in their 
come to them and not be Ethical and about," said Nunley.
Ethics need to be an than "lectures with the law." fellow 
compliance Nunley said major compa­
whistle blowers that can
incrr.asing focus in today's Also, Nunley said that com­employee. 
programs nies have committed them­
business world, according to panies must not promote "eth­To get damage the company." 
have been selves to strict ethical pro­
Spencer Nunley, head of the ical deficient individuals," to around this, greatly criti­grams because of a federal 
ethics department for the high management positions. ·Nunley said cized. These 
sentencing guideline passed in
Spencer Nunley
Bayer Corporation. Companies need to establish some corpo­programs are 1991. Through this guideline,
Nunl11y proposed guidelines auditing and reporting offices rations have Bayer Corporation seen as being the federal government can in a lecture Tuesday that so that no ethical issues such developed costly and 
directly punish companies in 
could ensure a good ethical as fraud, anti-trust, safety or hotlines so taking violation of different ethical 
environment. Companies must the environment will leak that wrongdoers can be employees away from their codes. create standards and proce­from the corporation to the turned in anonymously. jobs. 
"Government compliancedures that arc easy for government, Nunley advised. "If employees trust their Nunley stated, however, that programs are awful," Nunley
employees to follow, he said. These offices save corpora­management. they will come even the most skeptical com­said. This action will make it pos­tions from unnecessary civil to them and not be whistle pany appreciates these pro­If an accused company issible for othical problems to lawsuits and public embar­blowers that can damage the 
grams when faced with the found to he without the neces­
be reported and easily dealt rassment. company," lw said. threat of civil lawsuits and sary ethical or compliance
with, he said. In most compa­Nunley said that companies Now, howover, Nunely said federal action. "How fast man­code, he said, the governmentnies, an ethics office is creat­must discipline offenders and it is required by the govern­agement gets religion and 
has full authority to create
ed to facilitate this. fix what is wrong in the com-ment to penalize someone who wants fancy compliance pro-one for the company. 
'l)t\l,llAR, Inc,i /.997 /Jr:j,iJ<J r...'111lri/mt,4m 1':\"t't'llt11t.Y &tti,g,,. Past perfor"14.m;e fa no guarantee of future results, TIAA-CREF lnJividual and Institutional ~rvicca. fnL-. Ji.stributc., CREf certificates and interesta in the TIM Real l~tatc Account. Teachers Personal Investors Servi-:.:cs, foe. distributes the TIAA-CREP Mutoal FunJa. For more complete information, induJing 1..·harges an<l expenses, please call for prospC\:tusc:s,, Rea<l them carefully before you invest or a(ml mont:y, To request prospectuses, call I 800 &f2M2733, e.i.t, 5509. Investments in securities such as murnal fumfa and variable annuities a.re ~ub_iet·t ro 1.·t:rtai11 .risk.a jnduding the possible loss of principal. 8'99 
Leader/Manager. 
Full-trme college students or graduates. $31 K starting salary. SufTJTler Interns available. 
U.S.M.C. Officer Programs. 
Contact Lt. Simek at 
765-7 43-8359. 
Please recycle The Observer. 
"Dreams of tailgating at ND." 
Happy 20th Tiana! 
Love, Mom, Dad, and Melia 
MILLIONS OF THE BEST MINDS IN AMERICA HAVE ALREADY CHOSEN THE BEST RETIREMENT SYSTEM: 



TIAA-CREF. 
When it comes to planning a comfortable future, America's best and brightest turn to the expert: TfAA-CREf<: With over $250 billion in assets under management, we're the world's largest retirement system, the nation's leader in customer satisfaction,(I and the overwhelming choice of people in education, research, and related fields. 
Expertise You Can Count On 
For over 80 years, TIAA-CREF has intro­duced intelligent solutions to America's long-term planning needs. We pioneered the portable pension, invented the variable annuity, and popularized the very concept of stock investing for retirement. ln fact, we 

Ensuring the future for those who shape it."' 
manage the largest stock account in the world (based on assets under management). 
Today, TIAA-CREF can help you achieve even more ofyour financial goals. With TIAA-CREF you'll find the flexibility and choice you need, backed by a proven history of performance, remarkably low expenses, and peerless commitment to personal service. 
Find Out for Yourself 
To learn more about the world's premier retirement organization, talk to one of our retirement planning experts, or better still, speak to one ofyour colleagues, Find out why, when it comes to planning for tomor­row, great minds think alike. 
To find out more -give us a call or visit our website 
I 800 842-2776 www.tiaa-cref.org 

HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES Consider giving a year of service in one of our U.S. sites, or two years in Chile. Holy Cross Assiciates provides an experience of service and community in the context of challenging and living out one's faith and with a preferen­tial option for the poor. Room, board, personal stipend, transportation, and an AmeriCorps Award are available f01 qualified participants. 
Join us for an information session: 
Wednesday, Septemher 29 4:00 p.m. Wednesday, September 29 6:30 p.m. (focusing on Chile) 
For more information, call 631-552 L nd.hcassoc. I@n<l.edu, or visit the website at www.nd.edu/-hcassoc/ 

VIEWPOINT 
THE 
page 8 OBSERVER Wednesday, September 29, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 Ol4 Sourh Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Michelle Krupa 
MANACING EDITOR  BUSINF.SS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rog<"to  
ASST, MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Petdle  

NeWS EDITOR: Tim Logan VJEWl'OINT EDl'f0K, Colleen GaL1ghen Sr•ORT.S EDITOR: Brian Kessler 
SCENE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAI:'-JT MARY'S EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalum 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Bryan Lutz 
Ao DF..SIGN MANAGER: Bret Huelse SYSTEMS AUMINLHRATOR: Mich,el Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kusliro 
CONTROLLER: Timochy Lane GRAPl·llC'S EDllOR: Joe Mueller 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GF.NERAl. lNF0..............63!-7,f7! 
FAX..............................................................631-6927 
ADVERTISING..................................... 631-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFF!CE........................................ 631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. J@nd.edu VIEW!'OINT.................................................631-5303 ob5erver.viewpoinr.1@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu SCENE....••..•..•.............••.•••.•...•..•••..•.:•..•.....631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S...........................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO.... . .. .......................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visi, our Web sire a, http:llobseroer.ndedu forJaily updates ofcampus news, spores. features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. • 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute foreCIStS 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rares of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
about The Observer
archives to search for 
to meet the editors and 
anides published afi:er 
staff
August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Maty's College. Editorial content is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither instimtion. Acting as pub­lisher ofThe Obseiver, the administration ofthe University oFNorre Dame du Lac prohibits the adver­tisemen rofalcohol and The Observer's acceptance of advenisements from specified types ofgroups. 
The news is reported as accumtely and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority ofrhe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commemaries, letters and columns presem the views ofthe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions tbrot1gh letters is encouraged. 
Questions re,;ardmg Obsen'<'r policies shouU be direct­ed to Editnr in ChiefMichelle Krupa. 

Before this week, the "Generations" newsletter has sat untouched on my desk with only the headline, "Goal!" drawing any attention to it. 
1knew that the University, by ear­marking every sin­gle contribution by anvone over the last two years as part of "Generations," had reached its goal of $767 million. I also knew that a large amount of this would go to endowed chairs, some scholarships and the construc­tion of yet another science building. But, I wasn't sure about the full effect that this wealth would have on the University, so I final­ly broke down and read the pamphlet. 
What was written inside has forced me to recognize something apparently very, very necessary to this University: lots and lots of money. 
Now I realize that many of the fine structures that I had the privilege of working and living in needed large amounts of capital to be built. Some were built for good, necessary reasons. Some were built because an insanely rich alumnus decided that he ner.ded his name on an edifice and gave gener­ously to a tax-deductible cause in order that such glory could be his. I realize that, in order to survive as an institute of higher learning, this Cniversity has invest its time and effort into improving the quality of its facilities. 
A great many worthwhile programs will benefit from the "Generations" campaign. The newsletter devotes an entire page to The Institute for Church Life and its job as a training ground for priests and community volunteers. According to the newsletter, the !CL is scheduled to receive at least $1.865 million. I won't begrudge that. It sounds like a good program to help fill the altars and churches in this country that have stood vacant for far too long. 

Of course there is the proposed new Science Teaching Facility. This project is slated to receive $60 million. That is a full eight percent of the total cam­paign. Why is this building necessary? According to the newsletter, "to main­tain the University's status as a top­ranked teaching institution." 
I would advance the theory that any campaign as gigantic as "Generations" must serve two absolute goals. The first is to make the University a somewhat pricier, but still affordable, alternative to the ever-improving public university system. The second is to make the University appeal to a wider range of students. 
Originally I feared that this second goal was sacrificed in favor of graduate research laboratory space and the ever-increasing graduate schools at Notre Dame. My father, a 1966 gradu­ate, used to complain that Notre Dame was trying to turn into a sort of "Catholic Harvard" (i.e. formerly one of the greatest undergraduate universi­ties, now more known for its graduate schools and research). But, being a graduate student myself and seeing some of the wonderful benefits and prestige that graduate research can bestow upon a university, I cannot really accept that point of view any­more. Of course, Harvard is at the top of the U.S. News & World Heport rank­ings every year so how can we go wrong to emulate them? 
We have plenty of "science only" buildings on campus. But where are all of the Arts and Lett11rs ollices? Thev are in that run-down and paper-str.ewn closet of a building that is O'Shaughnessey Hail. 
Of course. as I said, lots and lots of morn~y is needed to fund these build­ings and to insure that the University is able to make a good showing amongst schools like Harvard and Stanford and Yale. Where does this money come from? It comes mostly from tuition. That is where my first supposed goal for the "Generations" campaign comes into effect. This campaign should be used to pay for these projects so that tuition is not caused to rise. As the newsletter says. "Keeping the Notre Dame experience affordable has been a recurring theme throughout the cam­paign and one which the University trustees have insisted upon." 
Every year, tuition goes up and every year the University rejoices that it has risen "by the smallest percentage in history." However, working out the numbers, that percentage incrnase almost always amounts to a larger increase from year-to year in real dol­lars. 
They say that scholarships are a main priority but do not note any. They say that keeping tlrn experience afford­able is the idea, but do not stop tuition at its already insanely high amount. 
I am not the one to stand in the way of learning on any level. But Notre Dame is special. It has a special char­acter and has had a reputation as a high-quality liberal-arts undergraduate school. Are we throwing that away just because of what some stupid magazine ranks as important factors amongst "national" universities? Is it worth the $767 million dollars? Is it worth thn sacrifice of that liberal arts reputation? 
I hope so. 
Matthew Loughran is a 1998 gradu­ate andformer news editor <~/' The Obseruer. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe sullwr and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
DILBERT 
ALL NEW L~PTOP COKPUTER5 WILL 
BE 05BORNE5. 
TH£.~ COME WITH 50METHING C~LLED A FLOPPY DRIVE. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
oOME TH I NG TELL$ 
ME WE'R.E NOT 
OPERATING ON 
''INTERNET TIME.'' 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The only people who claim that money is not important are people who haue enough so t!w.t they are relieved ,fthe ugly /Jurden (~{ thinking about it." 
Joyce Carol Oates Writer 
VIEWPOINT 
O
fHE WeJncsday, September 29, 1999 BSERVER page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

The following is a response to Sean Vinck's article, "Limits of the free sp1icch clausc," (9/28/99). Mr. Vinck argu11s that freedom of speech "leads to destructive and harmful ends for individual souls." tin may not be entirely justified in this conclusion. The fact that both sicllls, conservative and liberal, hypocritically object to the right frne spm1ch when that right is used to refute their arguments does not necessarily entail that free speech is in and of' itself, immoral. 
Thcrnforn, arguing that free spe1!ch should be constrained b11cause no one really follows it anyway is absurd. Granting him that point l10wever, and assuming that the f'ree exchange of' ideas endangnrs immortal souls, in one limit1id sense. he may be correct. I assPrt, howcve,-, that limiting the I\Xcha11g11 of" ideas might be equally as hazardous to our moral health. 
Lt!t's nssunrn that Notre Dame holds position A, and them is a contrary position B. We wish to ban B bncausn it is f"undamrntally immoral. wlwrnas /\ is lwlinved to b1\ true. This assurncs, however, that 1I we are certain that !\ is a corrnct and 2) thnre is nothing to b1! gaitrnd by discussil1g point B. Mr. Vi11ck argmis f'rom the assumption that A is supported by tlw Church and /\ is thnrn!"on1 true. Lnaving that can of worms aside l'or tlw monwnt, llrn f'act rnmains lhnt tlwrr• is much to be gaim~d by discussing B. B could serve as a contrast to t\, hnlping us to better 11ndcrsland what is mmtnl when an authority asserts A. By dis­cussing B critically. adherents of A might be able to convince the "lwrNical" ncrowd or the error of their ways. If B is illogiral or wrong, by bringing it l'orth for dis­cussion we can refute it, thus mak­ing us cling morn Lightly Lo that trun idea /\.. tr we never hear B in a context where we can determine that it is false, then we stand more likely to be shaken by a weak argument for B. By acknowledging and discussing B, the soul will rest confident knowing that it has seen the opposition and its corrupting capabilities, and yet, the truth of A still remains. 
But. what if A is wrong! Simply citing an authority (here the Church, but the point applies broadly} does not make it correct. History is littered with the bodies of absolutely, 100 percent right, obvious, self-evident ideas that were provr,n wrong and discarded. In such a case, B might serve to help us revise our own beliefs so that they are more correct. It is presumptuous to behave as though one has a monopoly on truth, when so ol'ten that has been shown to be false. /\nd, when, as Sean Vinck assorts, immortal souls hang in the balance, you'd best be cer­tain that what you teach is absolutnly perfect before you· exdude all other ideas. 
Now, such a position as I have detailed above does not mean that I consichir all opinions equally cor­rect or worthy. 1bnlicve some things are right and others wrong. Rut allowing the proposition, explanation, or defcn!>e or a con­trary idea does not imply that you condone what it says. I believe then, that discussion, examinati.on and cv1•11 dissedion of ideas leads eventually Lo the synthesis of a new, bntter idea that mav well be the elusivn truth l'or whi(;h we all search. In that, freedom of speech contains its own intrinsic value. 
Mary Beth Willard Junior McGlinn Hall September 28, 1999 
Ticket tab needs to be trimmed 
From a studnnt who has lived his life right outside of Philadelphia and always was able to easily take advantage of all that a large (and culturally active) had to offer, I was a little dismayed coming out to South Bend to go to school. I don't Pven think about that any more, though, except in one case. The case of concerts. 
l frequented the many large names that routinely stopped in Philadelphia and in the neighboring metropolitan areas of the east coast. Names likP. Billy Joel, the Dave MaUhnws Band and Lilith Fair were within 20 minutes ofhomo. They were not only tra11sportalio11a!ly convenient, but also linancially convenient. Tir,kP,ts to such ernnts usually ran $30-35 for shows in real­ly grnat settings. Even smaller shows, like the PP-nn's Landing riverfront fost featuring bands such as Fastball and Bela Fleck and the Flecktones, would be only $10 or so for an all day event. 
Since I have been out in South Bend. though. the closest concerts are in Chicago. This, however, is a problem for a student who has no car, is not at all familiar to Chicago, and doesn't want to spend an arm and a leg for a concert. Imagine my excite­ment, then, when I heard that Elton John would be playing solo at the JACC' 
Determined to get tickets to this great event, I dragged myself out of bed at 7:30 on a Friday morning to guarantee that I would get a ticket. However, as I rode my bike along with about $40 in my pocket for the ticket (The price was not advertised in The Observer ads), I pulled up to the ticket gate at the JACC. My face, though, dropped when I saw that decent seats for the con­cert were $60! Now, I am not above paying for such a great performer, and if they want to charge that much and still can sell the JACC out, which will likely happen, then more power to them. 
However, from a student's pnrspnctivn, I was so surprised to seP. this exorbitant price for tickets. I do not know who is prn!"lenling the funding for the concert and what con­nection the University has with th<' concert. Maybe we only leased out the .IACC to make some money, which is what I am guessing would havB happened. But I am reminclnd of last year's Third Eye Blind concnrt. That was a great experience, a great conc~irt with two pretty popular bands, within walk­ing distance and for undnr $30. Even Acrosmith was around $40, which was around the price of Dob Dylan. 
Now, I am not saying that. them is any­thing wrong with the Elton John concert. I just want to offer up a proposal for thn University, and maybe they'll listen. 
Why nol make such a great concert more accessible to students'! Find some way to make thn tickets cheap onough that tlrn stu­dents can l.ake advantage of the biggest musical event to come this way that I've ever heard of. Maybe even offer student tickets. lley, it's a start. But when l sec a big performer like the Dave Matthews Band brought to campus to play for TIIE STU­DENTS that doesn't cost us the equivalent of almost a third of a semester in flex points. half of our season tickets, our math books, or two months of laundry service. then I will be totally thrilled with not only the University's choice but also the University's commitment lo bringing a little something extra to the students and doesn't try to make a buck off of them. 
Andrew Nerlinger 
Sophomore Sr. Edward's Hall September 27, 1999 
Do something you enjoy, don't work for money 
I read Mary Beth Eilis's piece about grad­
uate school in the Viewpoints section and I 
would like to offer an alternative view. As a Domer, I can remember the panic that set in during the spring of '83. With my psychology degree and my whopping 2.65 GPA I was neither a candidate for a high paying entry level gig nor a prime graduate school slot. What made it worse was watching all my engineer and accounting buddies getting offers left and right (at the high paying 1483 rate of $20,000). I wanted to 
be a counselor 
but shuddered 
at making $5 per 
hour in an entry 
level human services 
job Instead I tried a couple of business jobs 
and hated it. Eventually, I 
took a child care worker job that paid $4.65 per hour. At night, I went to 
local grad school. It look a few years, but with experience I became the clinical director and then exec­
utive director of addiction treatment pro­
gram. I made a decent buck and eventually 
took a promotion to work in hospital devel­
opment. My point isn't to say what a cool guy I am. The point I'm trying to make is that if there's something you want to do, go do it. Work hard, keep at it and money and the rnst will come. Not all majors provide for immediate job access. Some disci­plines take experience and pay less. Thero was area­son why you chose to study
Ii It what you
r did. There's more to life than making 
cash and making it right away. Do what you're 
intnrnsted in and work hard. Avoid "keeping up with the Jones" it sets up a precedent for unhappiness. 
Tom Schreck Class of 1983 Scptenther 28, 1999 

O
THI page 10 BSERVER Wednesday, September 29, 1999 
Must-See TV's days are numbered 
By PATRIC[A McHALE Scene Writer 
For the last five years, NBC has been guaranteed a solid night of loyal teJevision viewership e'.1ch Thursday night. Traditionally, their Thursday-mght lineup, wisely entitled Must-SeeTV, has been just that -a solid three hours of programming that sus­tained a following while attracting new devotees. 
Originally, "Friends," "Seinfeld" and "ER," alo~1g with two other sitcoms of the season thrown m for good measurn, were unbeatablP by other networks. Despite their best efforts, CBS, ABC and fox were never able to topple the powerhouse. 
No matter how many rip-offs they produced, from an endless barrage of "friends"-themed comedies tu nitty-gritty, real-life dramas, the riva_l netwoi:-ks' attempts always failed. Somehow, their stars Just did not have the right haircuts or their shows the right theme songs to make it. 
Now, with the departure of "Seinfeld" two years ago and the ever-increasing monotony of the remaining series, the competition may finally get its chance to steal the rug out from under NBC. 
Last Thursdav night signaled the start of another season of Thursday n'ight television. "friends" returned to its usual 8 p.m. timeslot. "Frasier," being the closest thing to a "Seinfeld" -type program that NBC could find after the latter signed off the air for good, also reclaimed the 9 p.m. position in the middle of the lineup. 
"ER" was absent for the night of premieres so that the network could introduce its new hopeful, "The Third Watch," and grab the attention of those view­ers that neglected to check TV Guide before tuning in for the nigllt. The plan, which usually is a suc­cessful one, entails sneaking a new show into anoth­er popular program's time-slot; so that hopefully the established audience will be too lazy to change the channel or do something else productive. Therefore, the network has established a following in one effortless swoop. 

In the two other less-hyped slots, "Jesse" and the new sitcom, "Stark Raving Mad", made their season pre­mieres. The 8:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m. locations, despite their lead-ins,. tend to get the lowest ratings. This is why it is not surprising to see NBC play musi­cal chairs with its programming. 
Past shows that have called these timeslots home include ''Suddenly Susan'· and "Veronica's Clnset." Both have sinre been relocated to other nights, and both have lost a majority of their viewers. 
Though the progrnms have survived nonetheless, other sitcoms have fa.red worse. Forgot.ten programming includes "The Single Guy" and "The Naked Truth," which both disintegrat­ed after losing the coveted Thursday night locations. Once placed on a ran­dom night of the week, their ratings Photo courtesy of NBC slipped so dramatically that the net­The cast of "Frasier" made its season debut last Thursday. 

the end, though without the ceremony to make it official. With all these couplings, it is inevitable that the two remaining friends, Phoebe and Joey, will eventually pair off. Though this was the obvious intention of' the show from the very beginning, several more breakups and reconciliations must take place in order for the network to milk as much as it can from the show. 
NBC is already paying each of the six co-stars a pretty penny, so it is obvious that it has a lot invested in the success of the show. Only time will tell if their investment will pay off. 
On "Jesse," the title character, who refused a proposal from last season's love Diego, moves on with her life. She decides to go back to nursing school, accept a job as a nurse's aide in an infir­mary and take care of her young son. Photo cou~esy of NBC However, her duties begin to become too Neil Patrick Harris stars in the new comedy, "Stark Raving Mad." much for her as she questions her ability 
works removed them from the sched­ule all together. 
Every summer, while most people vacation and forget their troubles, television writers rack their brains to come up with new storylines to keep the shows interesting and unpredictable. What they came up with this season does not exactly fit those categories, particularly the unpredictability aspect. 
On "Friends," the entire gang continues its adven­ture in Las Vegas, where they went to meet up with Joey in the May's season finale. Of course, Monica and Chandler, having actually sustained a relation­ship for an entire year, consider eloping in one of the chapels, but discover that Ross and Rachel, in a drunken haze, have beaten them to it. When they sober up and realize what they have done, they have mixed reactions. 
Ross does not want to get a divorce, even if their actions were hasty, because he already has two 
failed marriages behind him. Meanwhile, 
Monica and Chandler stay together in to be everywhere al once, 
By the end of the premiere, she has become empowered again, realizing that she can accomplish anvthing if she puts her mind to it. She also reunites with Diego after he returns from refusing a job relo­cation. 
Christina Applegate, the show's star, has never been able to capture the same allure as her "friends" counterparts. The introduction of new supporting character Kurt, an extremely cynical registered nurse at the infirmary, may provide the much-needed comic relief to sustain the show for a little while. 
During an unusual episode of "Frasier," the good doctor becomes involved with a woman that bears a striking resemblance to his late mother.. Of course, he and his brother begin to analyze this choice in psychological terms. Not surprisingly, the relation­ship dissolves by the end of the half hour, leaving him a single man ... again. 
In the only comedy series premiere of the night, "Stark Raving Mad," a book editor is assigned to work under the famed-but-blocked horror novelist Ian Stark. The writm· is extremely eccentric and standoffish, while his editor is quite phobic and compulsive. Though the two clash in the beginning, it is obvious that their partnership will be beneficial to them both. Their opposite natures are catise for comedy, though it is difficult to tell this from the pilot. 
Though "ER" did not air, its absence is not the sole reason why the Must-See TV concept is slipping. All the shows are becoming a little too contrived at this point, a common side-effect of programming that is written exclusively for vicwership. 
Between the high price NBC is paying to keep the stars of its three big programs, "friends," "Frasier" and "ER" happy, and the departure ofbig stars from "ER," namely George Clooney, the network is at its most vulnerable. Most likely, rival networks also will sense, and capitalize on NBC's weakness. The Thursdays may he numbered for this former power­house. 

PRIME-TIME NIELSON RATINGS 

'ept. 20-26 
Program Rating Total Viewers 
1. Friends 17.8 17.9 million 2. Frasier 16.6 16. 7 million 
3. 
NFL Monday Night Football 15.2 15.3 million 

4. 
Third Watch 14.1 14.2 million 

5. 
Saturday Night Live 25th 14.0 14.1 million 


Anniversary Special 6. Jesse 13.9 14.0 million 
7. 
Law and Order 13.2 13. 3 million 

8. 
NFL Monday Showcase 12.6 12. 7 million 

9. 
33rd Annual Country Music l 2.3 12.4 million Association Awards 


9. Once and Again l 2.3 12.4 million 
9. Stark Raving Mad 12.3 12.4 million 
Source; Associated Press 

T E N 
Wednesday, September 29, 1999 page 11 
SOAP OPERA COLUMN 

Hope Williams and Princess Gina (both played by Kritian Alfonso) will meet this week on "Days of Our Lives." 
'Days' builds up to Paris climax 
By COLLEEN WEIGEL 
Sane Writer 
The past week of "Days of Our Lives" has be1111 based on two days of real time as it has centtired mainly on the Ili,pe/Gina/Bo storyline in Paris. Ilope is CUlTl'ntly alternating between lmr Princess Gina pPrsona and her true sell', as she has dmw for tho last year. by "becoming" l'rinc.t)SS Cina with l'rincnss Gina's memories and ,~motions. 
llut al'l.lff lrnr parnnts Doug and Julici arrived 
in Paris. Ilope !rngan to remember her own 
past. Now il is up to lwr to keep up her cha­
rndt~ as Princc!ss Gina to keep Stefano from 
gPlling suspicious about her intentions. 
In a mrwling with Std'ano, they talk about their plan of stealing the last Herrnt again. Stefano says this will prove bor loyalty to him. But rnally. how many tinrns does she nocd to provri lrnr loyalty'? 
J\f'icr she gets tlrn last Benet, Stefano has promised her thn !'rendom to live her lifo as l'rincnss Gina. Slrn leavns Stefano to get back to llo, nrnanwhilc continuing to havB inter­twining nwmori1is of Ilope's and Gina's past. Upon IH'r return, Bo, like Stefano, promises to prnt1ict lwr. 
They tlH!n all get ready for the party in l'rinrnss Gina's honor. What none of them know is that tho real Princess Gina is lurking, planning to attend the party. The ma! princess plans to go as Kurl's mother. Clearly. them will lw some kind ol' run-in between Princess Cina and I lope at the party. What will hap­
p!!ll'.' 
Tim rPal Gina rnp<iatedly says that she will gnt lwr rnvongo aga.inst StPl'ano for stnaling so many years from hPr, so a heatNI confronta­tion is incvitubln. 
Elsl'whnr11 in Paris, Eric and Greta also pre­par<' ln go to tlw party, while trying to i.;on­viuw .John lo attnnd tlw party. Unlike John of y11swryPar, though. Im dons not want to intnr­forP in bringing Std'ano down. 
Gr1•ta. in an ironic but typical soap opera twist, contirHws to whinP about how slw can't bnlinvn Urnt hor mothnr is dead. What 1wery­011n knows. though. is thal tlw real Princess Gina is rnully in tho samo housn in a secret room. 
Fri.c and Crnt.11 IMvn !'or the 1rn.rty, and Cireta cxprnssns her conc(Jrll about being able to go alo11g wilh the charade of µrctending that !lope is lwr motlrnr. They arrivP at the party and am w<dcorned by the Duchess and the llukP. Unknown to c;rntu and Eric. PrincP.ss Gina arrivt:s with Kurt in a not-so-convincing disguisn. Most liktlly, "Kurt's motlrnr" will attract morn attention with tlrn veil that is cov­
ering her whole face. 
As the real Princess Gina approaches Stefano, one must wonder why he does not recognize Princess Gina's voice, considering that Hope and Gina supposedly have the same voice. But perhaps the veil is more of a dis­guise than a smart person would have Lhought. 
Meanwhile, llope is dressed for the party, 
ready for Bo to introduce llopc as Princess 
Gina Von Ambert to her parents. 
Is it really Hope or Gina? It is hard to tell. Julie asks her if she is all right, and Hope says, "Of course." Bo then looks into Hope's eyes and reminds her that he loves her and that she should always remember Hope Williams. 
13ack in Salem, nothing important is going on. Sami and Lucas, Salem's parents-of-the­year, battle it out when Lucas confronts Sarni about a letter Nicole found, revealing Sami's deliberate attempt to keep him from attending Will's first day of school. Sarni basically denies the truth until she confesses -something that occurs often in the soap opera world. 
This of course makes her look like a liar to Austin, and everyone knows how Austin feels about liars. Thus, he leaves 'to go box at the gym, which makes Sarni fear that she has lost her chance with Austin. But when did she ever have one'? 
At the gym, Austin runs into -surprise ­Carrie. She wants to talk about the charity­boxing match and who his opponent should be. lie discards the majority of the candidates saying they will be too easy, but one must ask when the last time it was when he boxed in a professional boxing match. It is simply illogi­cal. 
Just before this confrontation, by the way. Carrie had been talking to Marlena about the !'act that she misses Austin. 
Can she ever make up her mind about who she loves'? J\.like or Austin'? She refuses to allow Austin to move on with his life with SamL but realistically, Carrie doesn't. have a choico. Sho is the one who clrnated on him. The choice twist would be for Sarni and Austin to Onally be together, mainly because Austin is stupid to believP. that Sarni can turn over a now leaf. 
Sarni also ltas a similar conversation with Marlena. in which she expnisses conrnrn that Carrie will convince Austin that she has rnturned to her evil ways. Is anyone else sick or thosn two sisters fighting over Austin? It has been at least three years' 
ElsewlwrP. in Salem, John returns honrn to Marlena. and they celebrate. What do they have to cnlebrato about? This io all they do. 
The big Friday clil'f11anger was Hope arriving 
a.t the party. Let the party begin. 
'Roswell' is alien to teen TV 
-----, 
By CHRIS ROBERTS Associated Press Writer 
ALBUQUEHQUE, N.M. 
Imagine you're a teen-ager and you don't know who your parents 
arc or where you came from. That's a ton of teen angst. 
It wa..c;n't enough for the creators of "Roswell," who have upped the ante. So, imagine all the above plus une more thing -you're an alien. 
But, rather than relying on the "Star Wars" approach of fantastic 
creatures and cutting-edge special effects, "Roswell" (premiering 8 
p.m. tonight on the WB) is a star-crossed teen-age love story with an otherworldly twist. 
The show is scheduled in the slot that follows the popular 
"Dawson's Creek" and matches the teen appeal of WB shows like 
"13ufiy the Vampire Slayer." 
"It is a wonderful metaphor for teen-age alienation," said executive producer and script writer Jason Katims ("My So-Called Life"). "As teen-agers, we all feel like aliens and some of us as adults (feel that way) too." 
While the show may be saving money on special effects, it is spend­ing some on the music. Tunes from such alternative bands as Eagle Eye Cherry, Dave Matthews, Garbage and Sarah Mclachlan are strategically placed in the pilot to accent the emotion ofthe moment. 
Set in Roswell, N.M., but filmed near Los Angeles with Roswell Daily Record newspapers in the racks, "Roswell" borrows heavily from the fabled high­desert crash of a UFO. It is sure to attract, at least for a while, the hard-core believers who think the U.S. government is still covering up the details of that crash. 

-
Three alien teens -who look human, but later reveal they can "change molecular structures" -came from an incubator on board the space­craft. Two of them, Max Evans (Jason Behr, who has appeared on "Dawson's Creek") and Isabel Evans (Katherine Heigl), were found walking naked along the road as small children and adopted by a loving family. 
The third, Michael Guerin (Brendan Fehr), was adopted by a man who "just keeps me around for the monthly check." 
The story begins with the Photo courtesy of the WB apparent death of teen-ager Jason Behr and Isabel Evans Liz Parker (Shiri Appleby). sta · th WB' "R 11 " 
Liz, a waitress at her rm e s oswe · father's diner, the Crashdown Cafe, is accidentally shot in the stom­ach when an argument between two patrons erupts into a struggle over a gun. Max risks revealing himself and his friends when he heals the gun­shot wound with a touch that leaves a silver palm print. He breaks a bottle of ketchup, smears it on Parker and tells her not to tell anyone what happened. It's the beginning of an impossible relationship. As Max reveals more of himself to Liz, he performs a mind meld that allows Liz to see the world through his eyes. This is an act of trust the alien teens believe could have deadly consequences She sees herself as well. "I could feel everything he felt, I could feel his loneliness," Liz says. "In his eyes I was beautiful." Some of the lines are cutely corny, and the incubator birth is never fully explained, but enjoying science fiction normally takes a suspen­sion of disbelief. Tongue-in-check humor that includes a few low-key special effects is intended to keep sci-fl fans from slipping into love-story ennui. Michael and Isabel chastiso Max for risking everything by saving Liz. "You use your p.owers all the time," Max says to Isabel. "Ilccreationaly," Isabel responds as shn melts .the cheese on hnr taco. Appleby says the new episodes will focus more on the threat of cap­ture. The alien teens establish in the first episode that tlrny believe they arr. in a life-and-death situation, avoiding government agents who will spirit them to a lab and dissect them. The suspicious sheriff (William Sadler of '.'The Sha.wshank Redemption") has personal reasons for digging out tlrn truth. llis father was a law enforcement utliccr in 1959 whon a body was found bearing a similar silver hand print. When he tries to report the incident at the cafe to a federal agent, he is met with skepticism and the warning, "Do you know what evriryone at the agency called your father? Sgt. Martian." The earnestly delivered lines help give the wrong-side-of-the-Milky Way love story and other plot twists a veneer of realism. "We don't want it to turn into 'My Favorite Martian,"' said executive producer Jonathan Frakes ("Star Trek: The Next Generation"), who makes a camP.O appearance in the pilot. "We're taking it Sf1riously." · 
page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 29, 1999 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Swank: Tennessee's academic fraud could be serious 
Associated Press 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. 
Tennessee faces harsh penal­ties if academic fraud alloga­tiuns are proved, however, for­feiting its 1998 national football title would not bfl one of them, a former NCAA official said Tuesday. 
"Academic fn.md is one of the more serious violations because it really goes to the whole heart of the student-athlete and the athletic program," said David Swank, immediate past chair­man of the NCAA's Committee on Infractions. 
"Now, obvious1y you have dif­fernnt degrnes of fraud," said Swank, a law professor at the University of Oklahoma. 
New Mexico State, Michigan State, Texas Tech, Miami and Minnesota have all been hit with allPgations of academic viola­tions iu recent years. Penalties have incl.uded NCAA probation and loss of scholarships. 
Although the NCAA has with­drawn championships from schools that violate rules ­such as the UCLA women's soft­ball champions in 1995 ­Swank noted the national foot­bal1 title is created by the schools and howl games and "is not an NCAA championship." 
So Tennessee's 1998 football crown would not be affected, "regardless of what wonld hap­pen," he said. 
ThP NCAA. is aware of the alle­gations at Tennessee but has not started a formal investigation. Meantime, Tennessee has start­eu an· internal probe into whether tutors did schoolwork for athletes. 
Carl Asp, Tennessee's faculty athletics representative si.nce 1992, said the investigation could take several weeks and will be thorough. 
"We would like iL over in a day. But that is nnt rnalistic, is it?'' said Asp, a speech professor and principal in the university's intf'rnal review. 
Chancellor Bill Snyder said his concerns go beyond sports. 
"Academic dishonesty and plagiarism, if that is verified, we take a very strong position on that,'' he said. "Regardless of who is involved ... whether stu­dent-athletes or not." 
ESPN has reported that inter­nal memos show high-level administrators in UT's athletic department were told four tutors might have done school­work for at least five_unidcnti­fied football players, a baseball player and a female athletP. Three of the football players have transferred. 
None of this information was passed on to campus authorities charged with investigating pos­sible rules infractions, university officials say. 
ESPN quoted a 1997 memo from Linda_ Bensel-Meyers, director for composition in the English department, to the Faculty Senate alleging prob­lems in 1995 with freshmen athletes. 
She wrote that "several of these athletes submitted papers that were either co­written or entirely written by tutors" hired by tlrn athletics department. These athletes "claimed they had been told bv their tutors that thi.s sort of intervention was accept­able,·· she wrote. 
"The acts of plagiarism appeared to be institutionally mandated by the athletic department," wrote Bensel­Mcyers, who failed to return calis for comment Tuesday. 
Mark Mil]er, immediate past presi<lent of the Faculty Senate, said he never heard about the allegations before ESPN reporte<l them. 
ESPN also reported that rnligious studies professor Dan Deffenbaugh suspected in 1993 that about one-third of the papers turned in by football players were plagia­rized in some form. 
Deffenbaugh, who now teaches at Lyon College in Arkansas, said this week he was satisfied with the ath­letic department's efforts to address the problem, which included more frequently 
cleaning out the hard drives of 
football," Deffenbaugh said. me they went out of their way
computers in academic services 
"[But] they didn't do anything for students to get the education 
areas. 
that I could see that was they needed." 
"The UT student life people 

Phil Fulmer and the Tennessee Volunteers face NCAA violations that could lead to sanctions but would not lead to the surrender of their 1999 national championship trophy. 
have to keep people playing ·immoral. In fact, it seemed to 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 1.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
CLASSIFIEDS 
024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right to edit 
all classifieds for content wirhour issuing refunds. 
OESTERREICHER gesucht,  FOR SALE  I need 2-4 ND vs. ASU tickets! GA  Troy,  
HEAVENLY HAM  mit gueltigem Reisepass als  N.D. FOOTBALL TIX  or student tickets. Please call  Thanks for the custard and the little  
NOTICES  Immediate Openings for Energetic Individuals.  Zeuge fuer NA-Wahl. Bitte Tel. 4-3967 (Anton)  CALL 271-9412  Autumn at 284-5024.  holiday. Hope 3:30 p.m. comes super-fast. See ya when I escape.  
Store Work Hours: M-F 7:30 to  e-mail: zeilinger.1@nd.edu  FOR SALE  WANTED:USCTIX  Michelle (the fifth roommate)  
THE COPY SHOP  5:30 Sat: 8:00 to 2:30  N.D. FOOTBALL TIX  247-1659  
LaFortune Student Center  No Sundays  CALL 271-9412  
PHONE 631-COPY www.CopyShopND.com  Will schedule work around class­es.Apply at 2307 Edison.  FOR RENT  Phone Cards, 669 min/$20  Need 3 USC tickets Please call Tom 634-1440  Hey Kelle, Kristin, Keara, Kate,  
Store Hours  288-4267  2 43-9361 or 258-4805  Tara, Bo and Lauren!  
Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight  ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE  Need 4 Okla GAs  
Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm  WANTED:  HOME FOR  Eric 243-3347  Have a perfect day!!!  
Sat Noon-6:00prn Sun: Noon-Midnight  1 or 2 Jr_ or Senior  ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  TICKETS  NO MOM NEEDS 11 ARIZ. STATE  We are partying tonight\  
classwomen to host 2  243-0658.  GA'S. PLEASE CALL  
highschool senior girls wanting to  WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT­ 1-800-447-1200, THEN  
LOST & FOUND  see Notre Dame, hoping to attend.Time starts with lunch at  HOMES CLOSE TO CAMPUS http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/  BALL TICKETS 271-1526  PRESS 2-2242. CALL WILL BE RETURNED ASAP.  Kelle and Kristin may want Chip, but he will marry me!!  
University Club Friday October 15  232-2595  
LOST  at noon, with a post-pep rally dinner  WANTED·  Need sets of two or four tickets for  
A palmptlot. Palm V, extremely  at Carriage House. Includes all day  THAT PRETTY PLACE,  ND football tix.  Navy or USC games. Call Brian at  
important!! If found please call 4­ "tailgate" Saturday in Joyce South &  Bed and Breakfast Inn has space  AM · 232-2378  634-3346.  This is the most fun!!  
0670  any incidental expenses.Other  available for football/parent wknds.  PM -288-2726  
plans welcomed.Contact 219-287­ 5 Rooms with private baths, $80­ $$$$$$$$  
1405, leave message.  $115, Middlebury, 30 miles from  ND football tix for sale.  NEED A HANG TAG FOR OK.  
WANTED  campus. Toll Road Exit #107, 1­800-418-9487.  AM · 232-2378 PM · 288-2726  WEEKEND. WILL PAY BIG BUCKS. CALL KEITH @ 234­ Hi Jake! Have a great day!!!  
Browse icpt.com for Springbreak  8646  
STUDENT OPENINGS  "2000". ALL destinations  LOADED 6 Bedrm '00-01 yr_  I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME  $$$$$$  
r.  5-30 hrs ./week. Flex. around classes.  offered.Trip Participants.Student Orgs & Campus Sales Reps want­ 273-0482 I 234-3831  GAMES.2726551  FOR SALE:  Leave Virginia alone She's not like you  
Scholarships avail.  ed.Fabulous parties.hotels &  BED 'N BREAKFAST  BUYING and SELLING N D FOOT­ ASU TIX.  and me.  
www.workforstudents.com/lN  prices.Call Inter-Campus 800-327·  REGISTRY 219-291-7153  BALL TICKETS.  271·9331  
282-2357  6013  GREAT PRICES. CALL 289-8048  
5 bedroom house prime location  Need 2 use Tickets  
DON'T WORK THIS SCHOOL  105 Marquette Ave Available now  +++++++++++++++++++++++++++  Call 4-2785 Ask for Chuk  Bill loves Jeanie  
YEAR! $1200 TO $2000 THIS  232-6964  ++  
MONTH. Part lime 4 to 6 hours per  REFEREES  N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS  
week. Call 24 hrs (219) 239-6709  REFEREES NEEDED FOR BAS­ 3,4 & 5 bdrm homes. Tall ceilings, wash/dry, walk to campus. call for  BUY/SEUJTRADE ALL GAMES  PERSONAL  There will be no more classifieds for  
KETBALL & INLINE HOCKEY.  more info. 289-4365  ALL LOCATIONS  certain people becuase unrelated  
Help wanted at 4 Michiana loca­ THIS IS A TREMENDOUS  GAEAT PRICES  Gay, Lesbian and Bisexual  classifieds to those classifieds writ­ 
tions. Great pay. flex. hrs. No _Sundays. Apply 1n person or send  OPPORTUNITY TO EARN GOOD MONEY, MEET NEW PEOPLE, &  Beautiful Home. 5 beclrooms. two bathroon1s. Brand new stove. refrig­ 271-9330 !!NO STUDENT TICKETS!!  students of ND/SMC meeting each Thurs. For info call:  ten by me have led to confussion and misunderstandings on behalf of  
resume to: FRULLAT! CAFE/UP MALL 6501 N. GRAPE RD. 41576  HAVE FUNI EXPERIENCE HELP­FUL, BUT WE WILL TRAIN EVERYBODY. CONTACT THE  erator. dishwasher, washer and dryer. Alarm. Attached garage. Fenced yard Immaculate condition.  TICKETMART INC. www.ndtickets.com +++++++++++++++++++++++++++  (877)631-6OUT High-Speed Copies,  those certain people. Thank you for understanding.  
MISHAWAKA. IN 46545  RECSPORTS OFFICE-BRAN­ 675.0776  Color Copies, Binding,  
DON LEIMBACH OR JEFF WALK­ FOR SALE  Fax Service, R2:sum~s,  
SPORTS CLUBS & STUDENT GROUPS-Earn $1000-2000 with easy CIS  ER@ 631-6100. OR STOP BY THE OFFICE IN THE ROLFS SPORTS RECREATION CENTER  FOR SALE  N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS CALL 271-9412  Business Cards, Laminating, & a whole lot more at  Givas still gets classifiends even if she does complain about the free benefits of knowing me  
Fund evenLNo sales required.Fund  TODAY. REFEREE MEETINGS  SPRING BREAK 2000  THE COPY SHOP  
Rasier days are filling up, so call  WILL TAKE PLACE IN THE ROLFS  Spring Break Specials'Bahamas  "THE MILLENIUM'  LaFortune Student Center  
today.Contact Joe @ 1-888-522­ SPORTS REC. CENTER MEET­ Party Cruise 5 Days $2791 Includes  A NEW DECADE. .. NCE IN TRAV­ Phone 631-COPY  
4350.  ING ROOM ON WED. 10/6 AT 6PM FOR HOCKEY AND AT 7PM FOR  Meals! Awesome  ELFREE TRIPS.FREE MEALS!JAMAICA.CANCUN,FLORI  Free Pick-Up & Delivery!  Almost there  
Loving ND-SMC couple wishes to  BASKETBALL.  Beaches,NightlifelCancun &  DA.BARBADOS.BAHAMAS.SIGN  AUSTRALIA!  
adopt Will provide a lifetime of  Jamaica 7 Nights From $399!  UP BY NOV. 5 FOR 2 FREE TRIPS  SUMMER IWINTER/INTER­ 
laughter,love,devotion and opportu­nities.  Nude Male models needed for stu­dent Art film.  Florida $129!springbreaktravel.com  AND FREE MEALS! 1800-426-7710  SHIPS/SEMESTER PROGRAMS www.study-australia.com  eight page take-home test? bogus  
800-484-4699 code oo19  Mere: 247•181 0  1-800-678-6386  WWW.SUNSPLASHTOURS.COM  Contact chris@study-australia.com  

---. ­
Wednesday, September 29, 1999 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 
.com .corn 
.com .con1 
.com .com .corn .corn 
.con1 
.con1 .com 
.con1 

f''"4 ,#"'-:: ~(1t"·'•t
.com 
"vtJt I i .com .con1 ,corn 
.corn .corn 
Why work for one .com, when you can work for hundreds? 
.com .corn .corn .com 












.con1 .corr1 


CONSULTING• TAX• ASSURANCE 


rn 
.com ,con1 .com .com 



.com 

.corn .con1 .con, .con1 



corn 
FORTUNE You haven't gotten this far by limiting Um-..~c~~ ,. your possibilities. And if you want to 
~IEI 
TO WORK FDR go even farther, consider the possibilities 
at E(nst & Young. You'll have access to some of the most sophisticated tools in the technology industry and work with some of the companies that help define it. Log on. www.ey.com 

.corn 
~:-fRNSTl'4 YOUNG 
FROM THOUGHT TO FINISH."' 
.... 
-
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 29, 1999 
.,,, 
-
FOOTBALL 
Irish schedule rated ninth most difficult 
Special to the Observer 
Based on NCAA statistics including all games through Sept. 25, Notre Dame's 1999 foot­ball schedule ranks as the ninth toughest in the country to this point in the season. 
Notre Dame's '99 opponents have jointly compiled a 25-11 record (.694) against other Division I-A foes other than the lrish. 
Notre Dame's past opposition has been particu­larly strong at 9-2 (.818), with Oklahoma on Saturday mark­ing the fifth straight opponent in '99 that has met the lrish without a loss on its record. 
Since the NCAA began its toughest schedule rankings in 

We Keep it Simple as 1 • 2 • 3 
-We buy at special pricing direct from the manufacturer. 2 -We supply other diue shops through our ware­house. 3 -We sell gear through our website (www.diu­ingdeals.com) or you can buy direct from our store in Niles, MI at the same great warehouse prices. 

GREAT LAKES DIVING CENTERS 
216 E. Main 
Downtown Niles, Ml A DIVER'S WAREHOUSE STORE'M 
616-683-4502 
Please recycle The Observer 
1977, Notre Dame five times has played the most difficult schedule in the nation (1978, 1985, 1987, 1989 and 1995), has been ranked among the top four teams on eight occa­sions -and has been in the top 20 in 16 of 21 previous seasons. 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Sosa hits 62nd against Phillies 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA 
Sammy Sosa hit his 62nd home run Tuesday night, regaining his lead on Mark McGwire and passing Roger Maris' mystical old mark for the second straight season. 
Sosa, who had not homered since Sept. 19 against Milwaukee, hit a two-run homer to left on the first pitch from Philadelphia rookir, Anthony Shumaker in the ninth to make it 8-2. He became the first player in history to surpass 61 homers in consecutive sea­sons. 
Sosa was in an 0-for-9 slump and was 8-for-40 in the past 11 games. He played Tuesday after receiving news that his wife, Sonia, had been hospital­ized in Chicago. 
Sonia Sosa, 25, was released from the hospital after being admitted to the emergency room following a mysterious reaction to prescription med­ication. Sosa said his wife had been taking medicine for her menstrual cycle. 
If our delicious, flame-broiled double cheeseburger were any bigger, we'd need to buy more ad space. 

Nothrng heats our h1g,_1uicy Douhle Cheeseburger. It's got the great ta.stc of flame broiling and haf 75% morl' beef than Mc I )omlJ\· C:hccscburger. 
(PriGe and part1c1pat1on 1ncy vary) 
1 he Hi..ddle · LaFortune Stude"t Center 

It just tastes better. 
t-•'l'."l ( '-"P•J',•! nr: 11,:·;,i«•r K:ng C'."'"'P·•:;111l · ~ :h •:•.·: 1: ,, 1:ccr:•,-:1· '11 !lit· '<I J.•1111•~ f.;h:t'· •'ldld: ·:, .i ru~.j!:>!(!: 1,d ·•,1·11• ,,is '••,1-r,1. ,i' ·1,11: ,,q-,1r.i', , 

ATHLETICS Women's Soccer v. G'town7:30 Volleyball v. WestVrrginia 8:00 Hockey v. Wtlfridlaurier 7:00 
Men's Tennis v. Oklahoma 7:30
All students free with ID!!! 



page 1S
Wednesday, September 29, 1999 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

RecSports "Champion Student Award" recipients are selected by the Office of Recreational Sports. Honorees are chosen for their involvement in RecSports, including excellence in sportsmanship, leadership and participation. 
.·. ·:•/:i;-:~~/;t~=··:/ ' . Mike Cisternino is a senior Business Administration major living in Sorin College where he serves as a Resident Assistant. Mike is also enrolled in the Navy ROTC program. Mike hails from Shrevport, LA where he is a graduate of Huntington High

;~ ./-'•.: . ;'-~
~zi;_-· 
School where he lettered in football, baseball and golf. Mike ·.•. :-~-: ' .. has been involved with RecSports since he arrived on campus 
·.~:-:-_ . 
and is currently representing Sorin on both their football and
:::;;~ 
' 
baseball teams. While not playing baseball, Mike serves as a trainer and clinician for RecSports umpires. In this capacity, the baseball participants should recognize the value of his input. 
Recipients receive ~~ merchandise from the 
~ 
VARSITY SHOP 
... 
"Specializing in Authentic 
Notre Dame Sportswear" 
(Joyce Center) 
~'Ii. 

VARSITY SHOP
R~':rz 
·-·­
"Specializing in Authentic 
www.nd.edu/-recs ort 
Notre Dame Sportswear" 
Upcoming Events & Dea 

20% off of a 
-
~~ 
T-Shirts at the .a.s. 
VARSITY SHOP 
'l'I' 
Offer expires Friday 10/8/99. Student ID required. 
Look for this award to appear in the Observer every other Wednesday. Students selected receive ~~ 
l°T'-L...-~..:~ ..... ....
merchandise courtesy of \,,&..,~......-1 _:.._ __ and the li11., with two locations in the Joyce Center. The ... is open Monday-Saturday 9:00am to 5:00pm and Sunday 12:00pm to 4:00pm. (Phone: 631-8560). 
page JG The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 29, 1999 
NFL 
Quarterback Young's concussion concerns 49ers 
-
1999-2000 Season 
Notre Dame Film,Television, and Theatre Presents 
Hedda Gabler 
by 
Henrik Ibsen
... 
Directed by Siiri Scott 
Wednesday, October 6  7:30 p.m.  
Thursday, October 7  7:30 p.m.  
Friday, October 8  7:30 p.m.  
Saturday, October 9  7:30 p.m.  
Sunday October I 0  2:30 p.m.  

Playing at Washington Hall 
Reserved seats $9 Seniors $8 All Students $6 
1,ckets are available at Lafortune Student CenterTicket Office. Mastercard ancl Vi.a orders call 631-8128 
A/cohol·PreeYoung Adult Dance · Presents 
Phatt Thursday's College 
,~.JF DANCING IS YOUR THING THEN;JfJ(J THURSDAY'S IS YOUR PLACE!! 
Some of ND's and Saint Mary's hottest student playing your favorite dance music. 
Enter the ICONN Thursday night dance gontest win cash prizes. Audience determines ~iqh~ bring your friends to cheer toryqu. " 
Bring your favorite dance CD's or tapes, , play it; hip-hop1eretro, salsa, country, di 
.~ .;})e*:;~;>·;·. --.~'.J· Doors open atS:09 p.m. Free adrnis 
response, Deese waved to the ruled it out. Young then donned opposition weekly. In last sideline for help and team train­a cap and watched from the weckos 28-21 victory over New ers and doctors ran onto the sideline as backup Jeff Garcia Orleans, Young was hit 21 field, along with Mariucci. finished. times. including five sacks, in Young came to after a few The concussion punctuated what was one of the most sus­
minutes and walked oIT the field what has been a trying season tained poundings he's endured under his own power. At one thus far for the 37-year-old in a 15-yBar earner. point, he even tried to talk Young. The protection appeared 
Mariucci into letting him re­His protection has been spotty slightly improved Monday night enter tlrn game, but \1ariucci and he has been batternd by the until the fateful breakdown. 

We also buy and 
sell used CDs• 
We pay cash. 
MEDlhPLAY®
See manager or 
associate in the music 
departmenl for delails. 
Your Entertainment Superstore 
For the store nearest you, call toll-free 1-888-60-MEDIA. Now online at www.MediaPlay.com Cassettes available 
on select titles. Sole ends October 9, 1999. 81-8706·109 
Product selection and pricing may vary online. 
AssociaieJ P rcss 
SANT A CLARA, Calif. 
Steve Young's latest concus­sion after a frightening hit sent him to a neurologist on Tuesday and left the San Francisco 49ers wondering about the futnre ot' Lheir star quarterback. 
Coach St1>.ve Mariucci said during a news confercncn that Young underwent an MRI and was going over the results with the neurologist. Tho outcome of Lhe examination was not avail­abli>. 
Mariucci said that he spoke with Young earlier in the day. 
"lie seemed to be OK. HP seemed to be liue. Weore hope­ful that heoll be able to go this week," Mariucci said. 
But the coach didn't rul11 out the possibility of holding him out against Tennessee on Sunday as a precaution, fwen if hP's cleared rnerlir.ally to play. 
"Obviously, if something shows up on thf1 MRI, the deci­sion will be easy," Mariucci said. 
Mariucci also raise<l the possi­bility that Young, who has a his­tory of concussions. might r,on­sider retirement if advised to do so by doctors. 
"I really don't know that that's on his mind just yet," Mariucci said. "But he may be in a situa­tion right now where he would be more receptive tu that. Obviouslv, the main considera­tion is Stti,e's health. That's the A No. 1 consideration." 
Young lost consciousness for several sernnds after the head­snapping hit in Mon<lay nightos 24-10 Yictory at Arizona. Ile loft the game with just seconds remaining in the second quarter and didnot return. 
Trying to dodge pressure, Young instPad caught the full force of a hit from bliizing cor­nerback Aeneas Williams. The violent blow knocked Young backward, and as he fell, his head hit tackle Dave Piorn's leg before smashing against the ground. 
Young lay motionless on tlw l'icld with his eyes shut, and tacklP. Derrick Deese tugged at his jersey to try to help him up. When there was no immediate 
WeJnesday, September 29, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
Football 
continued from page 20 
w1inks have beun difficult and grnnling,"Davie said. "It !the by,\ w1wkl gave us a chance lo gnl sonrn play11rs resl1\d and refrnslwd." 
The open date also gave Davie a chance to address prob­lem areas. In Davie's first two years, the Irish posted an 8-4 record in gami's decided by a louchdown or less and were 4-1 in gamns decided by a fillld goal or lnss. This season, the Irish's combined diffe1·cntial in their t.hrnc lossns is 19 points. 
/\notlwr arna of concBrn f'or 
Davie is red zone execution. Last year, the Irish connected on 91 percent of their opportu­nities when within the 20-yard line. In the first four games of' this year, the Irish have scored only 61 percent of the time. 
"It is frustrating, hut I am confident we can solve those problems,"said Davie. "They are all in areas where we have 
The game was tied at 16 until 
2:53 left in the fourth quarter when the Seminoles scored the decisive touchdown. 
A yoar earlier, i.n "The Game of the Century,"thc second­ranked Irish knocked off the 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Undefeated No. ·11 f'urdue against undefeated No. 4 Michigan looks, and is, a huge game. Yet Purdue coach Joe Tiller said it's not the biggest in his turn­around of the Boiler­m a k er s program. 
That dis­tinction rests with a victory over Notre Dame in 1997, Tiller's first year at Purdue. 
"In '97 when we were able to beat Notre Dame after Purdue had lost to them for a dozen or more years in a row. That was a huge game for the program. and will probably go down as maybe the game that allowed us to kind of springboard into the future," Tiller said Tuesday. 
"From that standpoint, 
1 
[Saturday's] game is not the biggest that we've played in," he said. 
Purdue and Michigan both are 4-0 and 1-0 in the Big Ten. For Purdue, it marks the start of' a challenging string of games that continues with games against No. 12 Ohio top-ranked Seminoles 31-24 fol• 

•lowing a we,~k off. 
A year ago, the Irish capital­ized on their two bye-weeks with victories over Purdue and Arizona State. 
While the open date has given Davie a chance to work with his players and coaches, the rnal test comes Saturday. 
"We will know a lot better on Saturday afternoon how the open date went," said Davie, "but I think it came as a good time for this football team. I think we addressed some prob­lems we had and we arc a bet· tor team because of it." 

l II 
O 0 
been pretty good before." 
In recent memory, the Irish have had success in games fol­lowing bye-weeks. 
In this decade, Notre Dame is 9-1 after a week off. The lone defeat came in 1994 to Florida St.ate. Aftnr heating Navy 58-21, the Irish had a week to regroup before heading to Tallahassee on Nov. 12. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Tiller: Win over ND 
..
in 1997 big for PU 
PulliamJournalism Fellowships 
Graduating college seniors are invited to apply for the 27th annual Pulliam Jownalism Fellowships. We will grant I 0-week summer internships to 20 journalism or liberal arts majors in the August 1999-June 2000 graduating cJasses. · 
Previous internship or part-time experience at a newspaper is desired, or other demonstration of writing and reporting ability. Those who go through the Fellowships often find new professional opportunities opening up at other newspapers during and after the program. Wmners will receive a $5,500 stipend and will work at either The Indianapolis Star or The Arizona Republic. Opportunities for online training are available, along with reporting experience at our major metropolitan daily newspapers. 
Early-admissions application postmark deadline is Nov. 15, 1999. By 
Dec. 15, 1999, up to five early-admissions winners will be notified. All 
other entries must be postmarked by March 1, 2000, and will be consid­
ered with remaining early-admissions applicants, Successful applicants 
will be notified on or before April 1, 2000, and will be asked to respond 
immediately with a letter of intent, at which time one-third of the cash 
grant will be mailed to the Fellow. 
To request an application packet, visit our Web site, e-mail us or write: 

Russell B. Pulliam Pulliam Fellowships Director Indianapolis Newspapers 
\V.:h ,itc: \\ I\ \\.,1.11'11. \I ,.l'nm/pjf P.O. Box 145 E-ma,l: plllli,1111(a, .u-11.:11 ,.l'um 
Indianapolis, IN 46206-0145 

WEDNESDAY NIGHT BEACH PARTY 
Prizes Specials Give-Aways All Night Long 
State, No. 14 Michigan State and No. 2 Penn State on con­secutive Saturdays. 
"This is an unbelievable stretch," Tiller said. "It will be a real test for us. but I think we've got to lighten up and enjoy the moment, the oppor­tunity to play this level or cal­iber of competition.... That's a dif'ficult draw for anybody, but that's the way the schedule has been set, so we plan on being there." 
Purdue is playing Michigan and Ohio State back-to-back on the road, two teams it hasn't played since Tiller brought his spread offense from Wyoming. 
Tiller sees a Michigan team that has changed its offensive philosophy away l'rom one that was dominated by a potent ground game. Statistics prove the assessment. Michigan is averaging 117.8 yards per game rushing and 223.8 pass­ing. 
"I don't see them attempting to rush as much as they have in the past. I see some differ­ent formations out of Michigan," Tiller said. "There's a lot of one-back stuff showing up, people spread out. I don't remember those formations at /\nn Arbor. I think thnir offense is diversified .... When I look at their overall physical scheme, it's set to throw the ball to big, physical wide receivers." 

Notre Dame Chapter Association for Computing Machinery 
Lecture 
Java Programming for the Internet 
by Dr. Barrett Bryant Univ. of Alabama -Birmingham 
Thursday, September 30, 4 p.m. 119 DeBartolo 
". 


___,_ ___
,
[ 
I 
'I 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 29, 1999 

CJmbFaciny !he season, 
while inclulgiJ1g in the festivity of the harvest. .. _,ti-...,,.. 'jlr""' ,mrod,m d;omg m th; trnc ,p;,;", of Notte Dame . 
J1...r,.'. ·· Presenting menus that LOmpliment the fall ,cason 
_..~.\ Jt > -with the finest foods 11 has to ot1er. Be our guest 
~ ~'rl ,., !,!' , ' .F.I"'.,... " .f ~.at Sonns and celebrate a change in dining. 
-. JWisit us within The Morris Inn. 

Jeff Shu/The Observer 
Kate Burtig and the Cavanaugh Chaos take on Badin tonight. The Chaos will look to improve on their 2-1 record. 
-
ATTENTION 
UNDERGRADUATE AND GRADUATE 

STUDENTS 
WORLDWIDE 
CENTER.COM 
" 
PURSUE JOB 
AND INTERNSHIP 
OPPORTUNITIES 
THAT SPAN THE GLOBE
... 


i
·-----------------------. 
Soccer 
continued from page 20 
you're on a roll, tho goals tend to come more easily in bunch­
es." 
Despite the losses, the Jrish backfield has been a solid force. The Irish defense has held all of its opponents to just one goal until the final minutes of the game. 
"Our defense has done very well," Berticelli said. "The scores in CR.Ii fornia R.re not 
Interhall 
continued from page 20 
with a 10-0 decision over Pangborn on Sunday, Howard will look to carry that momen­tum into tonight's tussle with Farley's Finest. 
Howard is led by two-way star Jill Veselik, who plays both quarterback and defensive back It was Veselik who single-hand­edly stole the show on Sunday, intercepting two passes and throwing a score of her own to lead the Ducks to victory, The Ducks' offensive success is pred­icated on her abilitv to move the 
ball. . If Howard is to remain unde­feated, Veselik will need to con­tinue her solid play. Farley comes into the game looking to even its record, after falling 8-6 to Cavanaugh to slip to 1-2. Farley, like its opponent tonight, is led by its quarterback. 
Meghan Sheehan's arm strength should allow for the 
--·----------·--------·-----·-··--·-----·--·-----·-----·-------------·--·-·-.··-···..·-· ·-. ---------·-------------·-----·-------·-····----------·-·-······--··-----·---!
Finest to feature a wide-open offensive attack. 
The O'Brien-Smith
Breen-Phillips vs. McGlinn 
The McGlinn Shamrocks enter tonight's battle against Breen­Phillips looking for its first win. 
The Shamrocks, after battling Badin to a scoreless tie on Sunday, are 0-1-2, and feature a dominant defensive unit led by standout senior Bridget O'Connor, who anchors the defensive line. 
"We haven't allowed a point defensively in our last two games," '.VlcGlinn captain Jana Poscharsky said. "Our defensive line has played really well." 
Breen-Phillips will look to remain undefeated and unscored upon. The Babes have outscored their first two oppo­nents 26-0. 
With both teams boasting a strong defense, the talented BP offense should give the advan­tage to the Babes. 
indicative of the defense ­they're more indicative or a change in strategy and push­ing more people forward and taking risks in the hopes of scoring. That strategy worked against Connecticut when we scored with less than two min­utes to tie the game and we tried to do it again in California but it didn't work." 
The Irish need to start putting balls in the net if they plan to get back on track in the second half of tho season. The Irish devoted much of their preseason practice to solidify­ing the defense, but have since shifted gears to focus on devel­oping a more potent attack. 
The Irish look to  unleash  
that  attack  on  Eastern  
Michigan tonight.  

The Eagles, coming in with a 4-4-0 record, find their offense force in forward Max Sulla. Sulla. a powerhouse on attack, has tallied thrne of the team's eight goals and one assist on the season. 
The Notre Dame defense will try t<,> continue its solid play, giving the offense time to score and come away with a win that 
Wednesday, September 29, 1999 The Observer . TODAY page 19 TOM KEELEY
FOURTH AND INCHES A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM 

FR.O 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 30 Crowd-pleasing basket 
1 Btg first for a 35 Throbs
baby 36 Control knob
s Fly high 37Writer-­
9 Burns's "sweet" Stanley Gardner 
stream 14 Louisville's river 38 Palindromic time 15 Years ago 39 Long-winded 16 Skiing locale 40 Detrained, e.g. 1 7 Inflexible 41 Apothecary's 19Gamewith weight 
straights and 
42-vera flushes 
43 Had control of 20 Be in the red 
the wheel 21 Best seller's 
44 Witness 
number 46 Junior high22 Scholarship studentallowance 47 French article 
24 "Waiting for Lefty" playwright 48 Not be frugal 
26Hans of so Kismet Dadaism 
54 Capone and 21 Wyoming city Capp 

HOROSCOPE 
55 "Steady as -­
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS
goes" 
DAY: Connie Sellecca, Dixie Carter, 58 Where Pocatello 
Robert Ludlum, Miles Davis, Jessi 
Colter, Jamaica Kincaid, Beverly Sills Happy Birthday: This isn't the 
is 
59 Having 20/20 
time to slow down and take a break.
vision 
Instead, it's a year to gather up all 
62 Emergency that you've done in the past and bring it together in order to make major moves into the future. Your 
signal 
63 Writer James 
dedication and desire to turn your
from Tennessee 
dreams into a reality were enough to 
64 Holdup 
help you gain the respect and help required. The opportunities are just beginning, so brace yourself for a 
65 Coin toss call 
66 German mister 
great year. Your numbers: 5, 13, 18, 21, 
67 Brazilian booter 
27, 39 ARIES (March 21-April 19): Money can be made if you use your
DOWN 
ingenuity. Property deals will pay big dividends. You can upgrade your
1 Manhattan area 
standard of living by redecorating or
with lots of 
making a residential move. 000 
galleries 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
You'll be preoccupied with the love o/ 
2 Take out of the 
your life. Don't let this stand in the way o/ your work. Losses will occur if 
freezer 
3 Emerald Isle 
you are too busy living in love land 
4 Pea container 
000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): The work you do at home will pay off. 
sOklahoman 
&Get-go 
Start your own business or expand 

7 Hotshot Puzzle by Gregory E. Paul 
8 Stopltght stop 
31 Water-skiinglights 
locale 9 Have hopes 
32 Wrinkle-resistant 10 Like a hound fabric 
11 Cigarette puff 33 Martini garnish 12--to 
34 "--and the suggestions 
Wolf" 13 Dilbert, e.g. 
36 Broad valley 18Bumps 
39 Frost's "The 23Add up Road Not-" 
24Gaping 
43 Crowded 25Swabbies 
45 Gazpacho 27 Seabees' motto ingredients 
28 Squirrel's prize 
46 Person who 29 Sand bar handles bills 
your creative possibilities. You will have the discipline to finish what you 
49 "On call" device 55 "Auld Lang 
start and make money in the process. 
00000
50 Potluck choice 56 Get better 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't 
51 Newswoman 
be tempted to dance with the devil.
57 BorderMagnus 
You'll be caught in a scandal if you
60 Application form 
step past your code of ethics. Rumors
52 Gilbert of info 
will fly fast and furiously. You may
"Roseanne" 
find yourself looking for a new position. 00 
61 Thought waves, 
53 "Uh-huh" for short 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Haste makes waste, especially when it comes to finances. You'll lose if you
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
gamble. The money you risk probably 
are available by touch-tone·phone: 
-
EUGENIA LAST 
won't belong to you. Don't be silly; ol 
course your lender will come to 
collect. 0000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You're 
ready to take on the world. B,· can,ful: 
You may step on some important toes 
in the process. Conflicts with your 
boss will knock you down a peg or 
two. Don't take your upset out on 
others. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Are you still hanging around here? You should be on your way to an exotic destina­tion. Romance and adventure are summoning you. You have so much to experience and learn. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Stick to what you know best. If you give the impression you can do something you know nothing about, you can bet that you'll fall flat on your face. Be smart and spare your reputation. 
000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You can please your loved ones if you' re prepared to make those Ii It le alterations to your home that they've been begging for. If you don't bother, expect the fireworks to begin. 0000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Changes regarding your status will be positive even if it doesn't appe.ir that way right now The moves you make will be financially advantageous and lead to bigger and better things 00 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You work well with your hands. Do things that will interest the little peo­ple around you. The improvements you make to yourself won't go unno­ticed. 00000 · 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't 
-
just think about the things you'd like to do; take action. You may need to force yourself to get started, but once \'Ou're moving, you'll be surprised at how much you can accomplish. 000 
baam.1@nd.edu 
1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Birthday Baby: You are perceptive from day one. You take an intellectual 
approach throughout life. You have the ability to rise to the top of any field you choose to pursue. Your thirst for knowledge will never be quenched. 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 
best of Sunday crosswords from the last 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com,
50years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
~ 1999 Universal Press Syndicate 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 
"' 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
... 
Name _______________________ Address------~------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 

Rocky at the Top
.. 
Phil Fulmer and the defending National 
Champion Tennessee 
Volunteers face 
possible NCAA sanctions for 
PORTS 
academic fraud. 
page 12 
O
THE page 20 BSERVER Wednesday, September 29, 1999 
Notre Dame re-energizes for Oklahoma in bye-lVeek 
By TIM CASEY Spam Writer 
Thus far this season. Irish players have been chastised as not being able to win close games. Bob Davie's play-calling and <:0aching ability has been criticized. Allcgalions of academic fraud and possible NCM violations have called into question boundaries never heforn crossed in Irish historv. 
But for a· week, at least, the Irish could forget
-
about the distractions and set their sights on the rest of the season. 
''J think this open date really did come at a good time," Davie said at Tuesday's press confer­ence. "It can be beMficial to our football team." 
'Most weeks' emphasis is set on preparing for Saturday's opponent, but last week gave Davie and his staff a chance to work with players indi­vidually. Instead of worrying about Drew Brees or the Michigan defense. Davie was able to focus the attention on skill development and basir. technique. 
"It gave us a chance to practice without worry­ing about a game plan,"Davie said. "So much of what you do in college football these days is try­ing to match up and trying to keep up with your opponent. 
"Last week, we had a lot of time to spend just on individual technique and individual funda­mentals. I think we really needed that as a foot­ball team,"he added. 
Davie also stressed tbe importance that the off­week had on resting coaches and players -both physically and emotionally. 
Recharging for Oklahoma 
Two contributors on offense will return this week against Oklahoma. Tailback Tony Driver, who suffered a torn left shoulder muscle and flanker Joey Getherall (right shoulder separation against Purdue) will both look to add a spark to the offense. 
On defense. safety Ron Israel (right ankle sprain against Purduel and Ronnie Nicks (left ankle sprain against Michigan) are likely to be back for Saturday. 
"Make no mistake about it, these last three 

see FOOTBALL/page 17 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 'Chaotic' match-up set for tonight 
By KEVIN BERCHOU Sports Writer 
The Cavanaugh Chaos enter tonight's game against Badin on the heels of a thrilling 8-6 victo­ry over the women of Farley. 
The Chaos will look to mount a win streak nn the strengi.h of a strong, "chaotic" defense led by Meghan Rhatigan and Heather Hoffman, whose interception 
.. and return of a Farley convf'r­sion attempt provided the win­ning margin on Sunday. "We hope to continue playing strong defense," Chaos captain Melissa Tacey said. "Then we'll look to try to move the ball a bit 
better on offense." 
Badin enters the matchup looking for its first win. The ladies of Badin are extremely strong on the defensiw, side of the ball, having shutout McG!inn in a scoreless game Sunday to improve to 0-1-1. 
The offense appears to need work and Badin will need to move the football if they are going to knock off the Chaos. 
Howard vs. Farley 
The Howard Ducks may very well be the class of the Gold League. 
llaving run their record to 2-0 
see INTERHALL/page 18 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish limp home from road trip 
a costly scoring drought that leading scorer Shane WaltonBy KERRY SMITH has left them with three to the football program after 
Sporrs Writer 
shutout losses this season and the 1998 campaign. 
two scoreless games in a row. "We don't have a true cen­After a tough road trip. com­
"We're playing well and ter-forward because we lost ing home might be the best have had many scoring Shane. We didn't really have 
thing for the Irish. 
chances, but we haven't been any time to recover and 
Battling through three able to finish." head coach recruit for that position,"straight away contests with 
Mike Berticelli said. Berticelli said. "That lack of 
losses in each. the men's soc­"I attribute that to inexperi­speed eliminates one of tlrn cer team has squared off 
ence. I have a tremendous ways to score which is gettingagainst the likes of Big East 
amount of confidencr, in our behind the defense." rival Connecticut and national­
team and in our ability to get Notre Dame has managed to ly-ranked San Diego on its through this dry spell," he con­score only five goals in eight
opponents' home turf. 
tinued. "It's part of being a games, an all-time low for any
Now the Irish. after falling to young team. Wr, can't grow Irish men's soccer team. a 3-4-1 record, will enjoy the 
any faster. We just have to "We need to relax and we'll home-field advantage for six of stay positive and maintain our get through it," Berticelli said. 
their seven games, beginning confidence." "It's difficult when you're not 
tonight with a matchup 
The effects or youth and scoring -goals get harder to against the Eastern Michigan inexperience on the front line come by because there's so 
Eagles has been heightened by the much pressure to score. When The Irish return to Alumni 
unexpected loss of the squad's
I1eld with the hopes of ending see SOCCER/page18 
Volleyball 
Cross Country vs. Georgetown vs. Oklahoma 
vs. Hope College 
SPORTS ~ Norre Dame Invitational }jJ Friday, 7:30 p.m. 16 Saturday, l :30 p.m. 
Today, 6:30 p.m. Friday, 2:15 p.m. 
•
ATA 
vs. Eastern Michigan vs. Wifird Laurier Volleyball at Goshen College 
.
Today, 7 p.m. ~ Friday, 7:05 p.m. vs. West Virginia ~ Sunday, 2 p.m. 
,,.. GLANCE ~ • 
Friday, 8 p.m. 



