
Weathering the Hurricane 
Spring Into Action 

Thursday 
¦ Men's tennis won their first outdoor match 
¦ Spring break may be over, but spring campus 

of the year against Miami. 
events are just getting starred. 

MARCH 18, 
Sports• 24 
Scene• 14-15 

1999 
THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXII N0.106 WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 
¦ 



Members criticize trustees' clause decision 

By FINN PRESSLY "l really don't seP anything in this Gend11r HP!at.i11ns co-chair SophiP Assiswit News Fditor letter, as it stands now. as being Fortin nxplai1wd lwr rationale l'or flat-out angry," Hoberts said. "I seP approving tlw IMtnr. 
The Student Senate approvr,d a it as being assPrtivn, land) I think "Wn've found that tlw procPss lfitwr cnndf'mning tlrn Roarcl of you need to let people know whPn was lacking in some sense. Wn just Tr11st1ins !'or its derision to votn you're upset with them .... We need want,,d to re-affirm that you Itlw against tlw inclusion or sexual ori­to articulate to the Board of Follows Board of TrustPes] have do1w this, entation in the non-disr.riminalion exactly why we're angry." but wc'rn not going away," sill' clause at Wmlnesday night's mnet­Itoward senator Christine Jacobs said. ing. added her support for the letter. Enough nwmlrnrs agrcnd with 
"WP rPvised the lettrJr. sof'tnnrd "I find what ltlrn Board of Fortin, and approvnd tlw resolution the languagn," said Siegfried sena­Trustees] did hurtful. Wn are a by a votn of' 15 to 8. tor Tom Ogorzalck, whose Gender community or love, but we can also Thn smmte also dehatml a prob­Helatioris committr,e authored the be angry," she said. lem relating to next month's hudgPI lotter. "Thn language isn't as vio­Debate also for.used on whether approval menting, which is sdwd­lent anymore, I guess you r.ould or not the letter itself was an uled for April 13. nearly two WPPks say." appropriat!i way to expn!ss the sen­aftnr the current tPrm of ollicn for 
l lowcv!ir, ollrnr members of the ate's discontent with the decision. government positions expirns. senate worn not convinced that tho "I think what the majority of the While a spPcial motion has b,H•n languago of the lotter was appro­students want to know is why the passed to allow tlw r.urrnnt SPJHL­priate. Board of' Trustees and the Board or tors to votn on Lim budgnt, Lim 
"It's an act of love, raring l'nr Fellows votod against tlrn nondis­question rnmains as to who will other pt1ople that you may not even crimination clause," said St. pmsidn over the meeting: outgoing know, or maybe that you do know. Edward's llall senator Judson vice prnsidnnt Andrna Snlak or vie!' That committee worked out of love, Penton. "It would be better Lo invit!i prnsident-dnct Michael Palumbo. and this lnttnr r.onveys anger," said thnm tn an open forum, like the Palumbo himsdf raised tlrn quns­Keough senator Brian ()'Donoghue. Campus Life Council did." tion bl'f'orn the sl'nate. 
Pangborn reprci.entativo Susan Keenan Hall senator Matt Mamak "On April 1. tlwrn is a 1ww virP Roberts susper.ted that agreed with Penton's proposal. president, and I do think that tlw O'Donoghun's r.laim may have boon "I really don't ~.hink t1_1is .(~i.tter new vir.e prcsid!'llt should chair till' infltwnced by tlrn previous versions S(]rves a purpose. he s,ud. I!my meeting," hP said. "It's not mP vPr­of the lnttnr. which had been know we're not happy about this ... sus Andrea ... I'm just doing this labded too belligerent by mAmbtws I think we should stand behind 
sec SENATE/ page 4

of the senate. what the CLC has done." 
ND business ethics wins No. 1 ranking 
Hy BRAD UNTIEDT "Wn am very phiasml about thn Nnvs Wiitcr ranking." said Woo. "This rnflncts tlH• effol'ls of tlw businPss admin­
Busi111•ss \\'!'Pk magazirw ra11kPd istration f'aculty and Lim ovlirall Notn• lhtml' thP No. 1 srhool for tradition or tlw University." husi111•ss l'lhirs in is i-nrPntly puh­Woo said that bning ranknd lishPd "BusinPss \VPl'k (;uide to highly is an honor and a rnsponsi­tlw B1•st Busi11Pss Schools." bility. 
"This is a Vl'ry l"lattl'ring stalti-"This doesn'l mean that we h,Lve 111n11t about our all thn answors. program." said Wn still have a 
1: ,tl h!' r O Iiv<' r lot of work to do,
'THIS RANKING PROVIDES

Williams. associ­but we am VNY atn profl'ssor 111' AN OPPORTUNITY TO proud." Woo 111 an agPllll'll t and said.
SHARE THE IMPORTANCE OF 

lh,· uc-ad1•mic "This ranking dirc•rtor ol' LIH· BlJSINFSS ETHICS AND CARRY provides an 
NolrP l>anH• opportunity to
THE Mf..',SAGE OF THE IMPOR-

C:c•11tcir for l•:thirs share tlw impor­
TANCE OF ETHICS.' 

and HPligious tance of businoss Val u 1•s i11 Pthics and carry Busi1wss. tho nrnssago of 
CMUHYN Won

The guidP bases tlw in1portance ils rankings on /WAN OF TJIF Cot.J.F(;H OF Bl 1.','fN/iSS of nth ics." sh n na ti o II w i!I<• su r-/1.JJM/NIST!lll.TION added. "It also vciys Lo IIPl.c,rminn places a rnspon­-;11ul1•nt satisf'nclio11. :\c!"11rding to sibilily to continually improvn Plhi­tlw stal.istirs, NotrP l>anw rankPd cnl dcvelopnwnt." first in tlw Plhirs rnrrinilum for Otlwr schools that madn tlw list llw program's "p!Torts Lt> indud11 i1wlud,1 tht\ University nl' Virginia, (itliirs in tlw i\lBA program." c;11orgc1town University, Brigham "This is thn 11nly guide that Young Univnrsity, Yale Univnrsity, ranks 1\11!/\ programs that gds Cornn!! University and Dartmouth national rncognition, so this is a Llnivnrsity. great achinvcment," Williams said. The guide also ranked Notre Carolyn Woo, cllian of the College Dame's College of Business of' BusinPss Administration. nchoml Williams' sentiments. 
see RANKINGS I page 4 


~-­
I page 2 
¦ INSIOE COLUMN
I 
Ladies and Gentletnan 
Ladies and gentlemen, I have attentively lis!Pned to you all speak. I bavc attended rallies and talks. I have read the endless dribble which clogs the pages of Viewpoint every week{lay. And now I beg, entreat and Dan Sullivan 1 implore you all: Cartoonist Please get a life. 
You know what the problem with Notre Uame is? It's not the hypocrisy of the administration, the over-priced tuition or the fact tliat gender relations are horrible. It's not the lack of the protection of sexual orientation in the nondiscrimination clause or the lack of' diversity. The problem is the students. 
l am so tired of listening to all your bleed­ing hearts plrading for acreptanf'.e. Maybe it's that you have been so sheltered for so lung, caught in the Notre Dame bubble, that vou all have failed to r.-alize that thr world doesn't listen to whining kids. 
I'm not just speaking to the gays and les­bians calling for clause changes, the multi­cultural students calling for diversity or the hard-up Zahm guys pleading for an amend­ment to parietals I'm talking to all of you. 
Everyday, I have to listen to all of you whine and moan and complain -always playing the martyr, always being the victim -and it's getting really annoying. Sure everyone's got something about them that holds them back from their true potential. I'm short. overweight and balding at 22­years-old. I can't get a date on a Friday night, but you don't see me complaining because the University won't pay for my Hogaine. 
As studimts, this is your rampus. I'm tired of hearing, "Oh but the University doesn't listen to us. 1·m oppressed. I'm downtrod­den." Why don't you make them listen. The only reason people arc oppressed is because they want to be. 
Look at Martin Luther King, Jr. He was never a victim. Ile wouldn't let himself be one. He and those that fought beside him had barkbone. Want to get the attention of the administration? Try a little civil disobe­diern:e. 
Give the University a little bad press, cause them to lose a littlo tuition monev or alumni cash. and they'll bend to your every whim. But for God's sake, stop complain­ing, stop talking and take action. Get some· backbone. Take a risk. Otherwise leave. 
We're all adults here, and no matter how much your mother and father coddled you as a child. now you're free to make your own decisions. If you really can't take the abuse from the University, leave. It's as simple as that. No one is stopping you. And if you don't leave. just put up with it. You're only here for four lousy years, and when you get out into the real world, ynu're free to do whatever you desire. 
It's my understanding that the world out­side the dome is a lot more open-minded and free thinking. 

The view~ expre~serf in the Inside Column are those (~/' the author and not necessarily · those of rhe Observer. 

News Scene Noreen Gillespie Mike Vanegas Jo~hua Bourgeois Graphics 
Kare Steer Tim Logan Sports Production Bill Han Kerry Smicl1 Viewpoint John Pennacchio Colleen Gaughen Lab Tech Joe Srark 

Tho Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday except Juring exam :m<l vac.uion pcrio<li.. The Oh~erver is a mcmOer of rhc As~ociarcd Pres~. All rcprod.Lu.:tion righb arc-n~:,:erved. 
...---------------­

The Observer. INSIDE Thursday, March 18, 1999 




utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Berkeley's nudists lose court battle for trial by jury 
protest had the "misdemeanor" box 
REHKFl,EY, Calif. 
checked off, and therefore thny .Berkeley's most famous public deserved to be tried before a jury. nudist~ officially lost Tuesday what But Judge Hon Greenberg, of the they had been so fervently fighting Berkeley-Albany municipal court. for: the right to a jury trial. · rnjected the argument, saying that a 
Instead of going before a jury, jury was unnecnssary because the nude performers Marty Kent and district attorney did not f'iln criminal Debbie Moore, both 47, will automat­misdemeanor charges. ically receive punishment. in the AH hope is not lost, however, fiaid form of a fine, for parading around crime from a misdemeanor to an the attorney for the couple, David infraction.
in their birthday suits during a Beauvais. He said thfl judge could downtown tree protest in November, Because an infraction a change his ruling on May 5 and
means a judge said. judge decides guilt. rather than a allow for a trial by jury. 
During the protest. police issued jury. Kent and Moore have fought Tim attorney said the judge still the couple a citation for displaying the i.;hange. They preferred the auto­needs to settle more pressing f'rec their Lare bodies at the corner of matic jury that came with the higher speech issues, which include a possi­
misdemeanor charge. Traditionally,
Shattuck Avenue and Kittredge ble violation or tlw couple's frtir. Street in protest of a city plan to cut juries have been more sympathetic speech rights. to them on public nudity cases.
dffwn 220 trees. Beauvais said Lhc public, not a The couple, who are members of
The case is the first test of the judge, should decide whether Kent city's revised public nudity ordi­and Moore arc guilty, especially
the X-plicit players nude perfor­nance, which gives the district attor­when there arc free speech issues
mance group argued that the tickets ney the discretion of reducing the they received during the Nov. 12 involved. 
¦ UNlVEHSITY OF ftoHIOA ¦ f'\J11CHIGAN STAH lhJIVERSffY Study predicts increase in shark attacks Judge denies appeal on test-score ruling 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. EAST LANSING, Mich. 
Shark attacks have declined throughout the world dur­A federal judge threw two vital aspects of MSU athletics ing the last several years, but projections are showing the -recruiting and eligibility -into a tailspin Tuesday. U.S. number will likely increase, especially in Florida, accord­District Judge Ronald Buckwalter denied a request by the ing to a U. Florida study. That could be bad news for l'iCM that would have allowed colleges to continue using beach goers in Florida, which is already the worldwide minimum standardized test scores as a benchmark when leader in shark attacks. George Burgess, director of the recruiting athletes.The decision solidifies Buckwalter's Gainesville-based International Shark Attack File and co­ruling in a case last week that struck down Proposition 16 author of the study, said the numbers of sharks decreased -an NCAA rule that required student athletes to meet in certain areas because of overfish\ng, changes in weath­minimum ACT or SAT scores when being awarded an ath­er patterns or variations in the proximity of currents to letic scholarship. Buckwalter l'laggPd Proposition 16 as the shoreline. But plans to limit commercial fishing could discriminatory toward African-American student-athlntes. increase shark populations. said Kevin Johns, a research MSU, along with hunrlrnds of" other universities, has boen biologist at the Florida Museum of Natural History. This ·left alone to decide what the standards of admission for increase in the shark population, coupled with the student-athletes will be. Without Proposition 16, students increasing number of people worldwide, is likely to lead to must graduate high school with a 2.0 grade-point average more shark attacks. in 13 core courses. 
¦ COLORADO STATE UN!VERSffY ¦ lfr41VfRS!TY Of DAYTON Exercise machine impressed NASA Dayton remembers bad St. Patrick's Days 
IWCSTON DAYTON, Ohio 
NASA exercise equipment technology apparently cannot St. Patrick's Day is making its return to thn U. Dayton compare with the work done by a group.of Colorado StatA campus Wednesday, and university ol'licials arc optimistic University students, according to one CSU student. Tara the·y won't see a return to tlrn traditions that prompted Rutlley, Paul Colosky, Jon Dory and .lark Zentner have them to sclrndule the university's spring brnak to coincide designed an exercise machine for micro-gravity ronditions. with the holiday for the last five years. "It was just a rnally The Constant Force Resistive Exercise Unit [CFREU] utilizes ugly scene," William Schuerman, vicn prnsident of student constant force springs and provides complete concentric and development and dean of stucl(mts, said of tlrn St. Patrick's eccentric exercises for every major muscle group in the celebrations of the past. Schuerman said the celdJrations human body, Colosky said. Exercise technology is of special beginning in the late '80s and especially in the early '<J0s interest to NASA because of the chronic muscle atrophy were totally out of control. Ile said it was not uncommon humans experiencr, in zero-gravity conditions. The body's to find furniture and Dumpsters on fin•. streets blocknd, degradation limits the time astronauts can spend in space and large crowds confronting university and city police. "There is a space-race for exercise equipment," Ruttley said. "For a period of about live to six years things were just "And our CFHEU seems to be winning." Ruttley, Colosky and escalating," Schuerman said. "A certain segment of' llrn Dory met Monday with Susan Schneidrr. head of NASA's population wanted CD to bn known for that ltlrn wild cde­exercise development department. brationsl." · 
¦ SotHH Brno V\fEATHER 

5 Day South Hend Forecast 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Thursday, March 18.
·--~:,cu Weather® fr1recast for Uaytim~.~~:!~~-i.!ions_and high tcm~~-r~-~~~-~·-·­
30s Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
---_, -----5\._ 
50 ' 30s

H L :~,.
50s 
/TT:;;,o,.,___ -50S ' 
,-;'") 60s 60s 
Thursday ~49 31 
~r: 
60s
Friday ~49 32 




v~~(
Saturday -~ 52 37 
"\...,,} 
80s

Sunday C53 38 
FRONTS;
' ' .... ' 
............
~ 
C 1999 AccuWeather, tnc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
----­
Pre8S-UNI:
IMonday .~ 43 34 ® © . D . D . w(),wl¼#.&~•.•• 
High Low Shower11 Rain T~storms Flurries S11ow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
V,., AsSOClilled Pross 
Atlanta 73 50 Denver 56 21 Miami 79 68 Ba.ltimore 61 46 Honolulu 81 69 New York 59 47
4,~,~qQ~tJ~u Chicago 44 34 Georgetown 69 56 Phoenix 74 50 
Showers T-slorms Ram FJ~r;ies S~o-; Ice Swmy Pl. Cloudy Gioudy 
Columbus 41 33 Lacombe 75 60 St. Louis 50 35 
Dallas 54 53 Kennebunk 52 35 Seattle 52 42
Via Associaled Press GraphicsNef 
I trnrsday, March 18, 1999 
The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS 
---page 3 
1 
I 
I

Former poet laureate, wife to read poetry selections 
By KATE STEER tonight at 7:]0 p.m. in thu Scholar Series. Nl•w-; Writn llesburgh Library Auditorium. II ass attend t! d St, .vi a ry 's Thn Creative Writing Collr,gn of Calif'ornia for his 
liolH•rt !lass. a rornrnr pont Program and the English 
undergraduate education and 
laun•atc ol' tlrn Unit.Pd Statns, 
Departmnnt invitud this hus­continued his formal cduf;ationand Brnnda llillman. an bancl-and-wif'n team l'rom at Stanford University.award-winning 1rnet. will sham California as part of the Paul Hass served as a poet laure­sPlections 111' lhnir writing 
and Barbara llenkels Visiting ate of' the United States f'rom 
THE CENTER FOR ETHICS AND RELIGIOUS VALUES IN BUSrNESS PROUDLY PRESENT 
Elynor Williams 
Vice President ofSara Lee Corporation 

:e_r_o{esso·r Iodd Whitmore 
Notre Dame Theology Department 
Speaking on 
Diversity in the Woriplace: 'lhe Ethical Imperative 
Part ofthe Frank Cahill Lecture Series 
Thursday 3/25/99 Jordan Auditorium 4:00 -5:30 




Looking for a great job . for your senior year? 
The Alumni-Senior Club is now accepting Bartender and D.J .. applications. 
Apply today at the Student Activities Office (315 Lafortune) 
for the best job 


on campus!! 
Applications Deadline: March 26 
l9CJS-t9<)7. The responsibililies of this office indude giving lec­tures and nrndings at the Library of Congress and setting up a literary program for the Library of Congrnss and the Washington, O.C., community. 
"In becoming thn poet laure­ate, you become thn person through whom public prnsence of pontry is manif'nst," said II ass. 
During his term as poet lau­
reate. Hass developed a pro­
gram to battle illiteracy focus­
ing on the intnrconnections of' 
nature and poetry. 
llass published four award­winning collnctions of poetry as well as translating and editing other volumes. llis own collec­tions include "Field Guidt1" ( 197:1), winner of tho Yale Younger Poets Snrins, "Praise" (1979). "Human Wishes" (1989) and "Sun Under Wood: New Poems" ( 1996). 
II ass also publishP,d ''Twentieth Century Pleasures: Prose on Poetry," a gathering of critical essays which received the 1984 National 
Book Critics Circle award. 
Otlrnr publications inr.ludn tlrn authoritativn "The Essnntial llaiku" in 19%. Otlrnr· hon ors th at II ass narrwd include thn John D. and 
Calhnrirrn  T.  MacArthur  
Fnllowship and  a  Guggenheim  
Fellowship.  

llillman publislwd hnr most recont collnction of poems, "Loose Sugar," in 19'J7. lier otlrnr books include "Bright Existenc,i" (I <J 9 3 ) . " D n ath Tractates" (1992) and "Fortrnss" I I 1)89). llor work appeared in 11u11111rous antholo­gins, including 'The Wnsl1!yan Tradition and Bnst Anwrican Poetry" (1990). Shn rncniv1!d a Guggonhnim Foundation Fellowship for I994-IJ!i, and lwr othnr honors includn thn Delmorn Schwartz Mnrnorial Award l'or Poetry and thn Pontry Society of' America's f\orma Farbm· First Book Prizn. 
Currnntly, Hass is a professor of English at thn University of Cali f'orn ia-Bnrkn ley. 11 i11 man teaches at St. Mary's Collnge in Moraga, Calif'. 

DiMartino, Cramer highlight recital 
Special to The Observer 
performance on Mel Tonne's ''Christmas Album" and recont 
Guest trumpeter Vincent 
efforts with the Cincinnati 
DiMartino and faculty pianist 
Pops Orchestra. Furthermorn,
Craig Cramer will.headline 
DiMartino is a Yamaha 
tonight's music department 
Performing Artist and former trumpet and organ recital at 
president of the International8::mp.tn. in the Basilica of the Tnunpot Giiild. Sacred 1-foart. 
Cramer, associate prof'ossorThe duo will pnrform works of music at Notre Dame, has 
from Schmidt, Handel, Torelli, 
performed throughout the 
Ravel and Nehlybel. 
Unit11d StaLOs as well as in 
DiMartino is a Matton Belgium, Canada, England,
Professor of Music and coordi­
France, Germany. 
nator of the instrumental pro­
Luxtimbourg, Poland and gram at Centre College in 
Scotland. He has apptmrod as Danville, Ky. He is a noted jazz 
a soloist with the Toledo 
and classical trumpet player. 
Symphony, the South Bend DiMartino has performed 
Chamber Ordrnstra. thn South 
throughout the country and 
Bend Symphony, the Notre 
has been prominently featured 
Dame Charnb•~r Orchiistra and 
in a numb1-1r of' rnrordings. 
tlrn Eastman Philharmonic. 
Two of his most famous 
Cramer has also rccordocl five 
recordings are a lead trumpet CDs. 
Recycle The Observer 
1"4~"'1hd Chicago's traveling group of improv comedy actors, and starting point of for many comedians: Martin Short, Mike 
....


page 4 The Observer• NEWS Thursday, March I 8, 1999 
er than Notre Dame. portive alumni network. Palumbo said, can be inrlu­The business faculty ranked Schools finishing ahead of enccd by personal bias.

Rankings Senate
fifth in the catngory of avail­Notre Dnmr werr Harvard, '"If vou want someone without 
ability outside thn classroom, University of Southnrn bias, ·gnt the Saint Joseph High
continued from page I continued from page 1 
accoi·ding to the study. California, Dartmouth and School student body prcsid1\11t Dartmouth lea<l thosfl rank­Cornell. for precedent." in here," Drew 0lejnik said,
Administration faculty fourth 
ings, along with Cornell, North Notre Dame remained in Parliamentarian Stephen adding that new vice presid1mts
in tlH' nation for its balance 
Carolina and Washington Business Week's list of the top Sanchez high-in the future may not be as
between research and teach­
UnivPrsily in St. Louis, which 50 M13A programs in the coun­lighted the pro-readily familiar
ing. Virginia ranked first in 
all finished ahead of Notre try. This list is an overall cedural flaws in with parliamnn­
this category, with tho 
Dame. ranking based on tlrn rankings Palumbo's pro­tary procedun1.
University of North Carolina 
Also ranking fif'th in the of all of lhc individual cate­posal. 'IFIND WHAT THE Carroll sPnatorand Dartmouth finishing high-
guide was Notre Dame's sup-gories. "Just like BOARD OF TRUSTEES Pat Foy conclud­ed discussion by
[Andrea I is no DID TO BE HURTRJL. WE 
longer vice stating that tlw 
¦ NATIONAL BUDGET ARE A COMMUNITY OF
president, nonr possibility of' of you an~ sena-LOVE, BUT WE CAN ALSO there being a tie vote on the bud-
tors. It seems BE ANGRY.'

House approves spending plan 
inconsistent to get approval was use new mem-slim to nonp, 
ll, l ,,"islq' f N 1.. r "" r,,, "l11rnl 'I \I""' II I If, I ,"Lil. I ,,",I .. I( lf;.. ,,,I il, l ,;",sil,1 l'"'"I 

Associated Press 
WASIJINGT0N 
Republicans pushed a $1.7 4 trillion budget for fiscal 2000 through a Housf' committee Werlnr.sday and were a hair's bread th fr urn prevailing in a S(>nate panel af't<1r GOP !a,v­makers crushed Democratic attempts to block tax cuts. 
By a 22-18 party-line vote, the House Budget Committee approved a spending plan by panel Chairman John Kasirh, H-0hio, that promises to leave Social Security surpluses alone while reducing taxes and increasing defense, education and several other programs. 
"I don't think you can do much better than that." Kasich said. 
Simultaneously, the Senate Budget Committee moved toward approving a similar plan. That panel planned to 
complete  its  work  on  
Thursdav.  
On  ·both  sides  of  the  

Capitol. Democrats proposed requiring that Social Security and Medicare be overhauled before Republicans could get the tax cuts they want -$15 billion next year and $778 bil­lion over the next decade. The GOP majority prevailed by party-line votes, 12-10 in the Senate Budget Committee and 23-19 in the !louse Budget Committee. 
De~mocrats designed their amendments to the 2000 bud­get in order to cast Republicans as more eager to cut taxes than to fortify Social Security and Medicare for the looming retirement of baby boomers. 
"There is a desperation to claim tax cuts as a primary thing they have to focus on," Sen. Frank Lautenberg of New Jersey, the Senate budget panel's ranking Democrat. 
Republicans countered that projected federal surpluses ­which they say will total $2. 9 trillion over the next 10 years -make it possible to do many things. 
"Let's get it straight," said Senate Budget Committee Chairman Pete Domenici, R­N.M. 
"There am many priorities. 
Wo're going to save Medicare" and Social Security. "And in addition we are going to give the American people a wel­come, needed tax cut." 
Evrm as the GOP flexed its muscle in committee, they ran into a Clinton administration veto threat over a GOP plan to ensure that Social Security's vast surpluses over the next decade before baby boomers start retiring -be set aside for debt reduction. 
The Republican proposal ­which will move as separate legislation from the budget resolution -would require that Social Security surpluses be used to buy down the debt. Doing otherwise would require votes of 60 of the 100 sena­tors, a tough hurdle. 
In a letter to Democratic leaders, Treasury Secretary Hobert Rubin said the plan could hinder the government from issuing new debt if need­ed, threatening its credit rat­ing and perhaps requiring it to stop paying Social Security benefits. 
"I will recommend that the president veto the bill if it con­tains the debt limit provi­sions," Rubin wrote. 
Besides the GOP tax reduc­tions, the similar budget plans bv Domenici and Kasich would set aside $1.8 trillion in Social Security surpluses through 2009 for debt reduction. 
Congress' budget sets over­all spending and tax limits, leaving decisions about specifics for later bills. 
Even so, the GOP budget would boost defense spending to $289 billion, $9 billion more than this year and $8 billion more than Clinton has pro­
"~ 
BOOK SEARCH 
• 
Used, rare and out-of-print books 

• 
Initial cost of $Z.OO · c Nationaily -circulated ad 


• 
Success rate of 50% 

• 
Time Required: 2 months 



ERASMUS BOOKS 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 
posed. They would also increase spending for primary and secondary schools by more than $2 billion next year, and provide more for some agriculture and veterans pro­grams. 
Hepublicans said they could afford thosA incrPasAs while honoring a tight spending limit for next year set by the 1997 budget-balancing pact. Neither committee provided much detail about which programs they would cut to heed that spending ceiling, but both chairmen said they could do so. 
"We believe these numbers are achievable," said Kasich. He added later, "Every pro­gram can·t go up if we're going to stay" within the limits. 
Nonetheless, Democrats said that to afford the G0P's pro­posed increases, the remaining programs affected by the spending limits would face 12 percent reductions. That could mean cuts to popular programs such as Head Start, food inspections and the FBI, they said. 
"If it· were an over-the­counter drug, it would have to say, 'Warning: Could be harm­ful to elderly, children and working families,"' Senate Minority Leader Tom Daschle, D-S.D., said of the GOP plan. "It is really a disappointment. They've given us an offer that we must refuse." 
bers and old· negating a need 
CHRIST/NB JACOBS for further
members in thn 
HOWARD SENATOJl debate.
same meeting," he 1ixplained. Additionally, While the chair of the meeting Fisher representative Philip 
is essentially in charge of Dittmar presented a proposal directing discussion, he or she for a resolution commending may be called upon Lo cast a the University for its fight tie-hreaking vote, which, against sweatshop labor. 
Apprentices win gold '.tillnal'f show 
. Special tQ Tbe O!i~etver · 

· · pprentices i'i . . (:ld gold:IIilll~ .. competi0 
··· tion .. . . . he Stanz Foodservice!Trade Show at South Bend's Century Center. 
Laura Strunk, Giuseppe Macerata and Andy Thistl(}tW'~ite.. w~re part of a 
live,me · ·.. .·.. · tq,at repre­. ~t¢d\ ...·•. . ...··· eru;lchap­.. ter of tlle ~(:lrjcan Culinary Federation(ACFl. · 
The team, captained by Thistletwaite and managed by executiv'3 chef Donald Miller ofNotr~J)ame's Morris 
Inn, traveled to Wichita, · Kan., on March 17. to repre­sent Indiana in the ACF cen­IraJ regional culinary compe• 
.•·• tition. 
· The four regional winners in the competition will com­pete in July at the national culinary competition in Chicago. 
Maccrata receiv,ed the South Bend chapter's Junior Member of the Year recogni­ti-0n. The award honors a member who has shown out­standing examples of profes­sional and personal leader­ship and behavior throughout the year. 





May 8-16 
Free Room/Board $8/hour 



CUP wt 
Thursd.iv. Man.:h 18, J()l}l) 
• ( 
Amish teen vandals arrested 
11/\ZIYTON. Iowa 
Four ,\mbh li·Pn-agl'rs w1•rl' arrl'st1•d !"or smashing 4.J. windows and owrt11rni11g ilug­gin; during a rampaµ;P al. \.hP lrnnw of an A111ish l'arnwr. aulhoriliPs said. ,\t (past lhrPc· 1woplP c·owpn•cl i11sid11 tlw homP ol' Human Halwr as tlw t.1•P11s wnn ('ausing till' damagP. sltPrifT's dPp111y CIP11 Fults said. Tlw yo11llls appan•nlly suspPctPd l<alH•r ltad ntllPd niunty dqrntiPs lo rPporl lhPy had hpc-11 drinking 1111 llw prn1H•rly ciarliPr lhaf 1•w11i11g, dc•p11ty .!dl' Coll'lllilll said. l)ppuliPs had issu,·d 1H1m1-ro11s alroliol-rl'lall't! rila­lio11s i11 1111' 1·arliPI' i1wid1•nt.. "Th<',Y traslwd tll!' f'arrn." hilts said. ;\s nrnny as 40 youths WPl'P 1111 tlw pro1wrty l.itP Sunday and Parly Monday, having lingNPd t.hN1• following pra)'('r s1·rvin•s for llw adults. Only a ha11d­f11I p:trt.iripall'd in till' v1111dalisr11 in lhis qttiPt .·\rnhh n1111111u11itv 11110111 :ill 111ilPs north of C:1·d.ir Hapirb. l!,;IH'r dol'sn't lww a phmw anil cl1•1li1•tl Sllllllllll!Jillg aullrnrilins. 
Drag queens upset Church 
Si\N FIV\i'USCO 
Calholit' 11•,Hll'rs want tlw rily to rPvokn a pPrmit for a sln•1•l party 011 FasiPr lhrm,rn hy a th1•alPr lro11JH' of' hahit-wParing drag­quP1•11s k1111\\'11 as thP SislPrs ol' l'Prpntual l11dulgP111·p_ The· SistPrs lwv1• a pnr111il lo rlosP a sp1•tio11 of a road in lhP largPly gay Castro l>istril'l fo r,dPIHatP thPir 20th a1111ivc•rsar~ ..\llowi11g a gro11p that "mocks th1• Catholi1· Churrh" to rlos<• a public stn•PI 011 1-:astPr is co111paralil,• t.o "allowing a gro11p ol' 111•11-N111is lo dose' a 1·itv sln•,•t for a c,,11•­hration 011 11w J1,wisli f'pasi or PassovPr," said \1.iuri('I' llt-aly. a spok1•s111an for San Frnrll'isro's 1lo1111111 Ca1holi1'. i\rchdion'sn. Ill' \\l'Dl1• i11 111!' arrlidio1'.1'SC' 0 S offi!'.ial m•wspa­l'l'r, t:atlioli·1· San Fra11cisrn: ''This grnup has garrwn•d ;1 rPp11tation J'llr 1111tragP11us lwhav­iur hy 1111wki11g rl'ligious lif'1,, ridil'llll\ of' <:atlllllil' i11stiluti1111s and profa,w rpfprc•ncPS to sanc•d litlll'giPs." 
Teen loses ear in fight 
'1'1\Vl-:HNll•:H. Fla. 
,\ man hit oil part or a tP,•n-ag,,r·s 1iar in a l'ighl that startPd with a traffic dispute, a11tlrnritiPs say. Lazaro Fnriqun VPnto, a :n­YP1Lr-11ld housP paintc-r, was charged T1wsday with aggravat.l'd baltPry and caus­ing an a1Tidl'11t. Slwri!rs deputy Phil Graham ... aid h,· arrivPd to rind 18-yc\ar-old D1irc•k Crawford pn-.-;sing a llallnd shirl t.o his right Par and h11ldin!-{ tlH• torn pi1•<'P in his halld. "ll wasn·1 jusl a litt(P IJilP. IL's a good-si,.,, l'IJ1111k. :'vlikP Tyson would lw i111prnssPd," (;raham said. D1H'lr1rs WPn' unahhi lo rnal.­lat'li 1111• pil'l'C'. l'olic'P said l.lw argunwnt h1>ga11 011 th" highway, with VP11to ac·r11sing Cr-,mforcl 111' tailgating. Tlw lighl. spilkd ov1!r to a parking lot, wh1•n•. Vc•nto ramm!\d Crawl'orrl's pirkup trt1('k with his own, dq1utiPs said. 
ltfirillhHlfttliMUM
Dow AM1<:x: 
715.8., ./ONES -O.-lX 
Nasdaq: 2-U8.97 
.l(l,J(l 
u 
NYSt: 
610.65 
-J.•l.> 

S.,\ I' :-OO: Corn11osill! 1297.82 
V<)lume: 
i5 I ,800,0llll 
9879.41 
-X. ~~ 
VOLUME LEADERS 
CAMfAllX TlCISFB ) CILV:Hil •CMl¥9E l'RtCI 
DILL COHP-U1'S.,_ DELL , l. l) -LU50 IN'!"Sf, cOlilP TN'l'C •O. 10 •il.1HO ''.'-' 
U0.50 1.PM,COM t'H~ ·\l.'31 -1. l.2)0 12.:a,
.,,.. 
NOVILI, CNC NOVL +8.05 .,,l.,9JH l6 .00 01'hCL ¦ COP.P OltCL -:I. !lj; -o. 7~:il5 29. 0fi Ql,OBAL C'lt0.i81HO GIILX -8 .50 -•.noo n.u Hrc,:oso,,. co11P K•tt -1..u -l,9f:.ZS 1&1.1.r TCJI.ILl:C TJ.LC -H,H -J.810,0 7.~.f, CONPUWAJll COftP c,,,. •S .18 +l.t'!7' 2e. ,s NCl WOJt;LDCON INC WCOM •2.06 +l.8150 H.H 
COM!'ILED FROM THE OBSERVER Vv!RE SEJW!CES page 5 


New York celebrates St. Patrick's Day 
/\ssOC'.l!\TUl l'l!l'SS  
NEWYOBK  
Smiling ey1•s, hhHi ski11s and a touch  
ul' glamour lent by grand marshal  
Maurl'Pll  O'l!ara  addnd  to  tlrn  
panal'IH• of' today's 238th annual St.  
l'atrirk's Duy l'ar1ul1: up Fifth Avenue.  
(l'llarn. thn Irish-born star of such  
rlassi1· moviPs  as "Mirae!P on  :Mth  
StrP1:l" and "Tlw Quif't Man," wavf'd  
and smilPd broadly to t!i(i clwcring  
crowds. wllirlt  wrrn prnssml 10 cknp  
againsl µo!ic·n  liarricadns as some  
200.000 marc!H•rs movPcl along tlw  
two-inilc parade route.  
"Bdng a New Yorknr, I think t.bis is  
UH• grPatnst pnrarln in llw world,"  
said  11.lil'kt:v  J\,Jc(;ovnrn,  55,  a  
Brooklyn-ho,:n drug 1·011ns1Jor who  
now liws in Crn1'nsboro, !\J.C., but dri­ 
ves up nvery ynar just l'or thn paracln.  
"It's innndihl!•." said honor guarcl  
Micha1-I  Mall'i. whose Monsignor  
Farrl'll Marching Band  -an all boys  
parochial school from Slatnn 'Island ­ 
was  tlw f'irst marching band lo ,step  
up the avPnUP.  
Malli. 17. and James Capdonga. 18.  
w1m~ carrying flags instmtd of" their  
usual instruments  -a synthesizN  
aml xy!ophonn ­ but wern happy jusl  
to lw there'. "It's a grnat honor and a  
good l'Xp<'ric·nw," said Capdonga.  
The Tokyo PipP Band, making its  
i\c\W York dnbul, rncnivnd applause AFP Photo  
and  P ncou ragt\lllHn t  f'ro m  fellow Men with bagpipes march in front of St. Patrick's Cathedral in New York Wednesday  
mardrnrs as  tlwy litwd up  on  in the city's 238th annual St. Patrick's Day parade. Wnst  
44th Strel'l. "Wtl'rn all v11ry exc:itnd to bo in the parndn," said tlw band's Scottish nwntor. Ian MacDonald. And Conn McK1!t11la, 70. also ol' Scotland, a lirsl time in,radegoP,r, was glad to see tlrnm. "Tim morn, Lim nwrrier," he said. Ollwr first timn marchers included the 10-mnmbcr Irish Gallngfas Guard, a unit that has served as bodyguards !'or Irish 11:adcrs since 1242 A.D. Dr,isscd in rust kilts, gray military shirts ancl black berets. onn member carried a massive ax on his shoulder which he called "a mndinval attitmlc  adjustnrnnt. d1wice." The luck ol' the Irish was evident as thousands of grenn-wcaring, sham­rock carrying paradegoers lined tlw avenue under bnautiful, balmy spring · skies and temperatures inching toward 60 degrees. "It's brnalhtak­ing," said Kieron Brndy, a young man from Glasgow, Scotland. "i\nwrica's great because no one's as\Jamc~d to show thny're Irish." Ilis friend, Damian Gallagher, 19, also from Scotland, wore a grnen rib­bon on his lapel. "This is !'or the Republican prisoners," Gallagher said. "My father's been incarcerated  for t.wo and a hall' ynars !in (;lasgowl. lie was Sl'IJtPncPd for c.onspirary." The day lwgan with a morning Mass al St. Patrick's C:atlwdral wlwrP Cardinal .John O'Connor talkml about tlrn wntribution of Catholic schools lo .Urn education of' New York rhildrl'n. Gov. Gl'orge Pataki and Mayor Rudolph Giuliani. whosn relationship has nnver hnen warm, attendPd tlrn Mass but sat in front pnws on oppositl' sides of tlrn aisle. Tlw mayor sat rwxt to O'llara and latiir marched up the avenun with "Saturday Night l.ivr." actors Colin Quinn and Molly Shannon.  

¦ ISRAEL 


Court convicts Netanyahu ally 
ASSOCIATED PHESS  municipalities, and that  tions,  promising  civil and not Jewish law.  
JERUSALEM  he pockettid $155,000 in bribes.  Sephardic Jews a slice ol' · the Israeli pie after years  SA 1· 11 I u r Iaw ma k Hrs rejected all chargns of  
A powerful ally of Prime  When the case went to  of discrimination at the  ethnic or religious bias.  
Minister Henj;tmin Netanyahu said his con­ court in 1994, Deri's Fol~ lowers claimed the  hands of the country's Ashkenazi, or European­ Dan Meridor. a former justice minister, said it  
viction on bribery charges  charges  were  prompted  descended elite.  was an  important d1ty for  
Wednesday was a slight to  by religious and ethnic  Targeting low-income  the judicial system. "We  
his  constituents.  and  bias. Supporters  bur~t  families by providing hot  have heard thesH accusa­ 
called on them to show  into wails after the verdict  school lunches for their  tions for several yn1u·s and  
their anger at the poll8 in upr.om_ing elticf ions,  was Wednesday.  announced Others  children and doling out religion along wiih soci;1I  we believe in our !Iegull system, which knows how  
Th11 con-vi{'.tion of Sbas  burned tires. Two of the  services, the party's popu­ to act totally ind11pondont­ 
leader Arieh Deri deep•  three  judges  received  larity grew, In 1984, Sims  ly and is not scared off by  
erwd lsrnel's ethnic and  death threals.  started  out  with  four  threats," ht~ said.  
religious divide. His calls  Notanyahu  callfld  on  seats, but today it holds  Wearing tlrn black skull­ 
to  Sephardic voters  - Shas supporters to shpw  10  key  seats  in  caJ), white shirt and black  
religious Jews of Middle  restraint.  Netanyahu's coalition gov­ suit favored· by Slrns, Deri  
EastMn doscont  - could  "I view the threats on  t~rnment., making it 0110 of  contimrod  to proclaim his  
lrnlp Netanyahu. whom  judges wit.h extrtime seri­ the most powerful parties.  innocence Wednesduv.  
the party supports, win  ousiiess," Netanyahu said  Wednesday's verdict.  At  Ull  ('fllOtionally  
rt1•ulnction,  aflur the v1;Jrdict, "We will  coming on the heels or last  charged ,rnws conl't!rflnce,  
In  a  917-page decision,  not tolerate it."  month's ultra-Orthodox  lw promised to appnal the  
a Jerusalem District Court  Deri's bribery conviction  demonstration against Lhe  decision  and  said  he  
ruh~d that the Moroccnn•  carriPs a  maximum sen­ Supn~me Court. dAepAned  would  bP vindic(llPd  in  
born politician used the  hincc  of  scvtm  yr.ars  rosentnrnnt by religious  Mav 17 11lt1ctions.  
Interior Ministry in the  imprisonment. Sentencing  Jews against Israel's logal  ''God  did  us  a  grnat  
1'J80s to  Hl<lgally direct  will fake place Mlll'ch 25.  establishment. which they  favor that this verdict was  
govnrnmenl funds loward  Thn Shas party leaped  ate.use or hoing anli-rcli­ passod Lwo months bd'oru  
Shas  projects  in  local  to power in the 1992 elec•  gious by ruling in favor of  the p.(ectinns," Dcri said.  

7I I I 
Thursday, March 18, 1999
page 6 The Observer. NATIONAL NEWS 
State Dept. cautions 
U.S. travelers abroad 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The State Department renewed its calls Wednesday for Americans living and traveling abroad to remain vigilant of their personal safety. 
The department said in a formal advisory that it con­tinues to receive reports that provide cause fur concern for the safety of U.S. govPrnment officials and private citizens abroad 
"Wn takes these lhrcats scriouslv, and the U.S. has increased security at United States Ctw<'rnment faciliti('s worldwide." tllf~ advisory 
said. 
;\ similar worldwide cau­tion was issued in Der.ember. "It's not a specific incident, it was a continuing situation," StatP Department spokes­woman .Julio Reside gave Wednesday as the reason for exte-nding it. 
A number of' U.S. diplomat­ic posts have temporarily suspendt1d service to the pub­1ic because of threats, and others may have to do so in the future. 
The department cited the following situations as possi­ble threats to the safety of Americans abroad: 
• Osama bin Laden, who has been indicted for the 
bombings of U.S. f1mbassies in Africa and for threatening to kill U.S. citizens, and other terrorists continue to make threats against the United States and do not distinguish between military and civilian targets. 
• 
The potential for retalia­tory action against Americans and American interests following U.S. air strikes against Sudan and Afghanistan and the appre­hension of .suspects in the bombing of the lJ.S. embassies in Nairobi, Kenya. and Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. 

• 
The potential for retalia­tory action against Americans "because of Iraq's continuing dcl'iance of U.N. Security Council resolutions and persistent rhallenges to 


U.S. and coalition enforce­ment of the no-Hy zones over Iraq." 
The department recom­mended that Americans maintain a low profile, vary routes and times for all required travel and treat mail from unfamiliar sources with suspicion. 
Americans traveling abroad 
can obtain the latest informa­
tion on security conditions 
from the nearest embassy. 
The public announcement expires on June 17. 

A Atr:1:ei 
SPECIAL 
&al%}
INVITATION 
Announces the Following Introductory Offers of... 
r-------, r-------, r--------, r------, r------, 
I 20% OFF I I $26 I I $59 I I Man's I I $69 I 
I I I I I I I I I I 
: Aveda_ : : Cur & : : Colo,, Cur & Sty!,: : Haircut Only: : Hilites & : 
L_c_o~~~'.'.::.J L--~~~--J L<.?~:~~':c~~sJ L__~i~ __ J L~u~~-S~y~eJ 
•Please call to schedule your appointment• 
Please use the Special Saving:, invitarion and ger to know us. You'll he pleased wirh the quality and service we provide, and we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. 
\fl· /,ope to >ee you soon. 
No other discounts apply. Open some evenings. Atria Salon reserves the right to refuse service to any client whose hajr condition is unsuitable. Expires 4/30/99 

A11tJA. SAWN 
1.157 N. Ironwood Drive• Sourh Bend. IN 46615 • Tel. 219-289-5080 






OF ERRORS 
SUNDAY, MARCH 28, 1999 at 7J0 p.m. O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
For ticket infonnation contact the Saint Mary's Box Office
IMffiiJtivCE;. THE ARTS 
~NOTREDAME, IN 
(219) 284-4626 
Do you like to write? Write for us. Call 1-5323. 
Be our guest for the premiere medical ethics lecture ofthe year. A time to . share your questions and aspirations with alumni physicians. 
J. Philip Clarke Family Lecture in Medical Ethics 




"Death and Dipity" 
Our society is deeply ambivalent about death. On the one hand, we seek control and mas­tery over it. On the other, we are increasingly asked to find ways to accept death as no affront to our dignity and as a natural part of life. I will display this ambivalence·by reflecting upon several of the stories recounted by Ira Byock, a hospice physician, in his book, Dying Well. But I will set those stories into the larger context of disputes about death itself--whether it is an "indignity", whether it should be resisted or accepted, whether human beings are simply "a part" of nature or, rather, are set "apart". 
Gilbert Meilaender 
Board of Directors Chair in Christian Ethics Valparaiso University 
Friday, March 19, 1999 
4:00 p.m. 
Center for Continuing Education, Auditorium Reception following the lecture 

Sponsored by: Notre Dame Alumni Association Alumni Continuing Education 


ND-Colorprint 

The OIT is pleased to announce a new networked, full-color printing and copying service located in 114 CCMB. 
ND-Colorprint offers: 
• 
full-color printing via the ND network copying of full-color images 

• 
printing of Postscript and PDF files from disk (3.5" or Zip) 

• 
fast, low-cost service 

• 
24-hour turn-around for most jobs 

• 
variety of paper sizes/weights 



ND-Colorprint also offers optional: 
• 
center folding, stapling (side or center), and/or collating 

• 
printing on both sides (duplexing) · enli;1.rgement and reduction (25%-400%) 


Payment can be made through your ND departmental account or by cash or check. Unfortunately, at this time we are unable to charge this service to student accounts. 
For pricing and more information about ND-Colorprint, visit our Web 
.¦
site at http://www.nd.edu/~ndoit/printers/colorxe.html 
.¦ 

Thursday, March 18, 1999 The Observer• INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 



The Alumni Association is hiring people ,, __ :· /1 who would like to work from June 2 ,1999 thru June 5, 1999 for Reunion '99 ~~~ You'll have lots of fun while you earn extra spending money!!! Please Apply at Student Employment at 336 Grace Hall or the Alumni Association at 100 Eck Center· 
• 

Army surrounds Serbian province 
l'rislinia 
1:1•aring a possihll' N!\TO altark. tlw Yugoslav army IJol­stnPd its 1·omhat n•adi11nss, moving thousands or troops rlos1•r lo Kosovo amid rPports \\'1·d1wsday that IH'Hl't' talks in l•ra111·.1• WI'!"(' Oil [ht• brink or failing. 
lh1• war prPparatio11s also 1·a11w as l•:urop1,a11 Union forPn­sic 1•xp1•rts isstll'd a rnport say­ing lliat dozPns 111' Pthnic Kosovo Albanians slain in .January app1•an•d to hn 1·.ivil­ians, 1101 c·omhatant.s. 
Yugoslav army troops Wl'l"I' sl't.ting up anti-aircral'L missil1,s in tlw 11101111tai11s northwnsl or Kosovo's capital. l'risti11a, rPlwl IPadt'r St1lPima11 Snlimi said Wc•cl!lf•sday i11 his l'irst i11tP1'­vi1>w sinc'l' hPing appointl'd suprPml' c·ommand1•r 111' tht' Kosovo 1.ilH•ration i\rmv last 111011th. • 
Sp1•aking lo Thi• Assodatnd l'rPss a11d a11otlwr rPporlnr at his ho111P. SPlimi said Kl.I\ lightl'rs dug i11 al tlw Cicavica Mountains saw th1• missilPS lwi11g 1111load1·d from s11v1•ral 1·ovPrl'd trurks. 
SPnior ol'l'il'ials with t.lH• Organization for SPrurity and Coop1•rat.io11 in Furopl' said tlw 111issi1Ps rnuld bi· !Ill' Yugoslav vPrsio11 of' a 111,at-sPPking, Sovi<'l-huill short-rang(' missiln that 111011ilors havi, S<'<'ll on n•gional rnads. 
1-'ighling has rlainll'd mor<' tlia11 2.000 livPs i11 tlw past ~·<•ar in k:osnvn, a prnvincl' ol' S<•rllia. 1111• lllai11 Yugoslav r<•puhlk..\bout 90 1w1TP11I 111' k:osovo's 2.2 million pPopl11 arl' 
l'thnir Albanians. and most favor ill{IPp<rnd<'ncP. 
Ni\TO has warned that Snrb fail un· lo sign 011 to a Kosovo 1w,u•p plan could rt\stilt. in air· attacks against SPrbian and Yugoslav stratPgic targ<its, 
A U.S. l)pf'1•nsP Dnpartmnnt spoknsman warnnd Tunsday that llw govPrnm<111t f'orcns "r.nrtainly arl' bracing !'or war." 
Knn11Pth Bacon, tho l'nntagon's spokns1wrson. said I (1,000 to 2 l .000 Yugoslav army units art1 now on tlrn 
SIXTEEN THOUSAND TO 21,000 YUGOSLAV ARMY UNITS ARE NOW ON 
THE PERIMETER OF THE 
SERBIAN PROVINCE, UP FROM ABOUT 10,000 REPORTED TWO WEEKS AGO AND 4,500 IN LATE FEBRUARY. 
pPriml'lnr of' th<i Snrhian provirH'.n, up from ahout 10,000 n•portnd two wn1•ks ago and 4,;,00 in latP Fnbrnary. Anotlwr 
14,000 to 18,000 Yugoslav army f'orcos wi,rn said to b11 dnployPd insid<' Kosovo -nol counting Lhn thousands of !wavily armed S11rh police forcns. 
Thi' l'Lhnic-;\lbanian run Kosuvn Information C(1llll1r rPportPd largP 1110vnmPnts of Yugoslav army and policn forn•s throughout llw provinc<'. In till' north('rn Podujevo r·I' gio n, ] 0 arihy vn hic I(JS arrivPd W1\dne;;dnv as rnin­forcemnnts, iL said. " 
In Pristina, the reloasu of thn f'inal roport 011 tlw slayings in thn soulhnrn Kosovo villago of' Bacak lhrl'n months ago did lit­tin to ond thn controversy about wlrnthnr the victims wnrn massacrml by Snrhs or killml in battln. 
Whiln the head of' the l'oronsic tlmm, 1lolena Hant.a, called the Harnk killings "a crime against humanity," the report did not dirnctlv accusri Serb forces of a nrnss,tcre, nor did it suµport Yugoslav claims the victims wt>rn nither n!bnl light<,rs or civilians caught. in crossliro. 
"Thorn were no indications of tlrn 1rnopln being othor than unarmod civilians," said tho rnport. 
William Walker, the American head of tho OSCE mission in Kosovo, said thn rnport -which concluded the victin1s wore likely unarmed civilians -reinforced "my original conclusion," 
Walker initially dflscrib<'d tho killings as a massacre by Serb l'orcns. On Wcdnosclay, ho told tho Al' that the rnport "bolstnrs what I said" back in .January. 
A commentary on Serbian stalP-run tol<wision said Hanta "simply. did not have tlrn strmigth to spncif1cally deny thr oarlier claims of' massacre by William Walknr." 
Tlw Y11gm:lav forensic team that ,dso examined the Hacak victims said an important lost to d11tPrmine whether thny had lwnn carrying arms was not 1wrl'ormnd -something Banta acknowlmlgnd to rnportnrs. 
• Kosovo 

Balkan talks near collapse 
Associated Prc~s 
PARIS 
The Kosovo peaco talks appeared on the verge or col­lapse Wodnosday, with the Serbs still demanding major changes to a polHictd agree­ment and refusing to even dis­cuss allowing foreign troops to police a deal. 
Barring a sudden turn­around by the Serbs. it appeared likely the talks would end this week with a unilateral signing by tho ethnic Albanians, who already have agreed to an international peace plan. 
"Based on the last few days, we would not anticipate any further progress," said chief 
U.S. negotiator Christopher Hill. 
Speaking at a news confer­ence with his two fellow medi­ators, Hill said the ethnic Albanians would sign the deal "very shortly," presumably in the next day or two. 
Hill insisted negotiations are continuing, and mediators said the co-chairs of the confer-· once, the French and British foreign ministers, would evalu­ate the situation Thursday when they visit the Paris con­ference center where this sec­ond round of talks is taking place. 
Ifill said the mediators were pleased with the Kosovo Albanians' decision to sign, but his Hussian counterpart, Boris 
Mayorsky. was morn blunt. "Jt takes two to tango,·• ho said. 
Fighting in Kosovo, a provincu of' tlw main Yugoslav republic of Serbia. has killed more than 2,000 people nnd displaced hundreds of tlwu­sancls over the past year. 
In Washington, NATO's com­mand u, U.S. Army GM1. Wosloy Clark, told a congres­sional committee that Serb f'orces are prepared to resume fighting in Kosovo on a ''vory large scale" if they do not reach a peace accord with eth­nic Albanians. 
A British diplomat at thn Paris talks. speaking on condi­tion of anonymity, said Western officials already were making contingency plans for failure of Urn talks. 
Tho plans would involv11 a European mission to Belgrade, probably by French foreign Minister Hubert Vedrino and British Foreign Secretary Hobin Cook, to try to sway hard-linfl Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic. 
If that fails, top NATO offi­cials might make the trip, the diplomat said on condition of' anonymity. They would deliver a clear deadline to Milosevic to agree or !'ace airstrikes. 
State Dopartment spokesman James Hubin traveled unun­nouneed to Paris on Wodncsday, where he mnt llashim Thaci, head of' the Kosovo Albanian delegation. 

... 
_____,__ 
page 8 The Observer • TECHNOLOGY NEWS Thursday, March I8, l 999 
Government prices Y2K crisis solutions at $6.8 billion 
Assodated Press 
WASIIINGT0N 
'I:'he government raised its esti­mate Wednesday by $400 mil­lion to $6.8 billion for fixing the Year 2000 computer problem among federal agencifls, and said costs are expected to rise again. 
And with onlv Wl-leks before its sclf-impos~d deadline of March :31 to have all its most important 6,399 computer sys­tems Dxed, it said only four out of five of those systems have been repaired, replaced or never were vulnerable. 
In a 57-page report from the Office of Management and 
Budget made available late that five of the agency's seven to be reworked after initial Wednesday on the Internet, most important computers repairs. the government said three of won't be fixed by the .March 31 "To the extent that agencies its 24 largest agencies arc deadline. The report said the encounter additional difficul­making inadequate ties through testing ,.. progress the costs arc likely to Transportation rise," the report said,
THE GOVERNMENT PREDICTED THAT FIVE OF
Department, Health Many computers and Human Services THE AGENCY'S SEVEN MOST IMPORTANT originally programmed and the Agency for to recognize only the
COMPUTERS woN•T BE FIXED BY THE MARCH
International last two digits of a year Development. 31 DEADLINE. will not work properly 
Work at the Agency for International Development, one of the worst agencies !'or repairs, slowed after a computer failed testing that officials believed had already been !ixed. 
The government predicted 
AOL_ acqui~r.e·s~dw 
Netscape 
Aswciired l're<s 
DULLES, Va. 
America 0n!inr~ Inc. completed its 'nearly $10 bil0 
• 
lion acquisilion of' Net.scapfi .Com:municaticins Corp. Wednesday, creating a powerful new lnteruetforce with two of the top Web destinations. AOL c9.rnpleted · 
· its all-stock purchase after Netscape shareholders voted overwhelminglyin fa.vor of the deal, re.moving the last remaining hurdle. The Justice P~.P&l"t~ent said last week it wouldn't oppose tbe takeQver~, ... · Dulles, Va.-based AOL, the world's largestAnterri:~t access and online service provider, plaµssJo use/ Netscape's assets to gain key'advantages\nJtsI;li.tttJe'm with Microsoft Corp. to dominate the m;µn vV~b sites where people get information and· buy gvods and. w wnkM, ~ AOL chairman Steve Case has said he wants to give AOL's 16 million subscribers easier links.; ;.;(J.i;!,} . ,,, ..,·£;;,,,,,;,, ..,,,.. ;;s~·...i 
beginning Jan. 1, 2000, when machines will assume it is 1900, $400 million increase to fix all Some computers can be repro­systems government-wide was grammed, but many devices anticipated, and blamed the have embedded microchips rise in agencies finding that that mus1 be physically some computer systems need replaced, The latest report 
said agencies arc facing few problems because of these embedded chips, which aren't typically used for systems operating federal programs. 
"This arna does not appear to be of great concern," it said. 
The government also said it doesn't expect to experience problems in its federal build­ings, some of which featurn computer-controlled elevators and heating and security sys­tems. 
"No catastrophic Y2K build­ing system potential failures have been identified," the report said, adding that "near­ly all such systems allow for manual override." 

(;hjoy thQ mu~ic of D,mny Rober-t 1-famrna will giv'1 a C,uol Bt11dley will lelld ll wotk­shop based Oh Julia Carnetoh's
~nydet & !:ome tnetnbet!: ~hott talk and ~ign copi'1!: 
The A,tittt Wl1y. Thi!: ihtto­
of ~oufh!:ide D11nny to­
of l:mr/~etip~ ofthe.foul: 
ductioh wothhop will ihi:pite
night in the Cafo ~ptM!:O. 
A .fpitfutJlity of P/Qee. you to exiirnihe yout goali: ahd
They will petfotm bluM 
Thr~ ,~ hi~ latMt book pub­l:ttehgthi: and help you to put­ftotn theit cd li!:hed by Avg_ Mar-ia PtM!: i:ue yout ctelltive dtelllTl!: . Rendez-vom: BluM. 
MISHAWAKA: 4230 GRAPE RD ON THE NORTHEAST CORNER OF GRAPE 8: DAY RD . ACCROSS FROM DON PABLOS (2 19) 27 1 -9930 
ould you like to DISCUSS 
Join us for the ThirdAnnualRetreat for lesbian, gay, and bisexual , undergraduate students, their friends, and supporters. 
,__________ April 16 ·_17, 1999 ·---------1 
,.,,.-----...:..
•Explore your gifts and the milestones in your life ...... 
/ . ' 
/ Applications due'\
• Meet new people 
\, Friday, April 9th/
• Discuss how we are all called to follow Christ ' ...... ,.,,. /
----.--_.,,,. 
• Examine ways to reach out to the ND/ St. Mary's community I 
t 
For more information or to register1please coll:
•Student-led •Student talks Alyssa: 4-1277 Matt: 4-3668 
Tami: 1-3016 Email: schmiti.8@nd.edu 
-
• Conversation • Prayer 
Applications available @Campus Ministry: 0MPU5 103 Hesburgh Ubrary or 112 Badin Hall 


f\/llNISTRY 

Thursday, I\Lm:h 18, 199') The Observer• HEALlH AND SCIENCE NEWS page 9 





Experts say marijuana can ease pain of cancer 
WASIIINCTON 
Marijuana has nrndical bene­fits for p1wplc suffering from canrnr and /\IDS and should unclnrgu scientific trials lo se(J how it works best. a paned of nwdical exp1irts C()ncludcd Wcd1ws<lay in a report to tho fodnral governnwnl. 
Tho drng rcrnains illq;al 1111d1•r fNleral law, d1~spitc ballo1 nwasurns approving its use in Alaska, A.rizllna, Calif'ornia, Nnvada, Ori~gon and Washingtnn. The rrnw rnport is sllarpnning dnbal<' owr its us<:. 
Tim lnstitut1• of' Mrdicine. an afliliat<~ of' tlw National Acadomy or Scinncos, said marijuana's af'.livn ingr('(li1•11ts rnn nase pain, nausPa and vomiting. It urged thn d1w1\lop111cnt of a standard way to 11sP tlw drug, such as an inhaler. 
Tlw conclusion w,LS greetPCI warmly by 111ost marijuana advocates, hu1 opponents said thny worry lhn rnpnrl will 1i11couragn marijuana us1:. 
"I .l'l IIS WllSll' 110 morr, limn in 
Comet may contain Earth origins 
Conwl llale-Bopp. which hlaznd across the sky in 1997, may b11 brimming with some of llw primordial material from which tll(1 sun and the plarn~ts fornwcl more than 4 billion years ago. 
California lnstitulA of Tnl'hnology scientists who tuned radio tnlPscopes onto the comnt's nud1•us as it cut across tho solar system l'ound vents spmving a volatilP mixture of gas and dust into space. 
Tim imagos suggnst that 15 p1:rcN1l to 40 percent of llale­Bopp's mass is pristine inter-
f, f, e,
L A r 
providing this medication marijuana can hdp. concluded in 1')97 that some lhrough legal. mndical channl:ls White llousc drug adviser patients could be helped by mar­to nil the palinnts whose lives Rarry McCaffrey said the find­ijuana, mainly cancer and AIDS mav be saved," said Daniel ings arc unlikely to send phar­victims. 
Zingale of AIDS Action. 
But Rep. Bill McCollum. !{-Fla., who led tho right lO get the Ilouse lll condemn mnd­ical marijuana last fall, said he is "deeply con­cnnrnd" the r(!port might cncourngc people to smoke marijuana. 
It is known that some of the chemicals in mari­juana can be useful, he acknowledged, but their plac1: is in inhalers or pill form. "We should not sanction smoked mari­juana lrncauso thero is 
no way to control that," bling to do research on marijua­Mccollum said. na. "Our experience is there is 
"Providing good mr.dicine -littk market interest," McCafTrey not marijuana -is the compas­said. sionate rusponse to patients' Ironically, the new analysis pain and illnesses," said Hobert was requested and paid for by Maginnis of the conservative McCaffrey's White Ilouse Office Family Hcsoarch Council. He of National Drug Control Policy, insisted doctors havu oth<!r med­after an expert panel formed by icines to trnat any ailment that the National Institutes of Health 
stellar material, while the rest has been transformed exten­sively <luring the comet's pas­sage through space. 
The images are among the !inest ever obtained of' a comet with radio telescoptls. 
The findings were published in Thursday's issue of the jour­nal Naturn. 
Comets are often called dirty snowballs. Most orbit far from the sun in the deep freeze beyond Pluto's orbit. That enables them to remain virtual­ly unchanged ovf1r billions or years. 
"Nothing has changed much out there since that lime. 
L£l-TU\Z-£ ON HUMAN tz-16,HT'i> 
BY WA'5t\lNl,TON 'PO~T C-OLUMNl~T: 

iHUF-~DAYI MAF-C-t\ ISi 1111 1:00'PM @ D\:,~T IOI 
,.AU.£Vf Mt A.'f, t A.M. ONLY H\f.N LAN WC 01'5C.OV£[l. f.Ac.tt OT\-\f.F-." 
':>i'ON'&OF-'&: f(f-f.Nt\N, c.lW'4.NAUC,,,"· '501'-(N, LEWI$, F".':,11\N Af..1t!Z-ll.AN M,'50C.IMION. C.LA'5'5 Of '2.00'2. ':,rUDt-Nt 6.0V£F-NM£Nr, f'.16.1-lr ro Lift, e>t%i e>UDD1£'5, 
C)(YC.(2..lf.NTIAL LC~INGi, MULTll.ULrLil<-AL £l<U.UTIV£ lOUNl.lL 
maceutical companies scram-At the White !louse, 
'WHAT WE FOUND OUT IS THAT THERE 
MAY BE SOME CHEMICAL COMPOUNDS IN MARIJUANA THAT ARE USEFUL IN PAIN RELIEF OR ANTI-NAUSEA, BUT THAT SMOKING MARIJUANA IS A CRUDE DELIVERY SYSTEM. So · I THINK WHAT THIS CALLS FOR•..IS FURTHER RESEARCH••' 
JOE LOCKHART WfllTE IIOUSE SPOKESMAN 
Therefore it's a way of sam­pling some of the chemistry, or very close to whal it was, when the solar system formed," said Paul Weisman, a scientist at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, Calif., who was not involved in the work. 
. The CalTech rcsnal'thers found two icy jets erupting with forms of primordial deuterium­hydrogen, the poisonous gas hydrogen cyanide and a form of hydrogen called heavy water. The material may be rising from dcop within the comet, said Geoffrey Blake, professor of cosmochemistry. 
marijuana and P-Xpects to approve a fourth this year. 
One study looks at marijuana's safety in people with AIDS, a second is checking the extent of medical marijuana use by patients of health maintenance organizations and the third is studying marijuana's ability lo reduce nausea. Nearing 
Last-chance drug may alleviate arthritis pain 
Associated Press 
WAStllNGTON 
The government has approved a machine to filter the blood of Americans with severe rheuma­toid arthritis, in hopes it can alleviate the debilitating disease. 
The Prosorba. column, made by Cypress Bioscience, works much likr. dialysis. Once a week for 12 weeks, a patient's blood is slowly removed, the plasma is separated and treated by the Prosorba machine, and then the blood is retransfused into the body. 
The machine offers a :rn per­cent chance of improving the swelling and pain that cripples patients' joints, Food and Drug Administration oflicials said in 
approving  Prosorba  late  
Tuesday.  
The  FDA  stressed  that  

Prosorba is only !'or a small pro­portion of patients -those with moderate to severe symptoms who have failed all other treat­ments. 

spokesman Joo Lockhart said: "What we found out is that there may be some chemical compounds in marijuana that are useful in pain rnlief or anti-nausea, but that smoking marijuana is a crude delivery sys­tem. So I think what this calls for ... is fur­ther research." 
That is already under way at the NII I, which is running three studies of smoked approval is a study of marijua­na's effect on pain. 
The National CancPr lnstitutl\ is looking into tlrn comparativn value of a pill form of marijuana vs. a hormono in rmlur.ing nau­sea. 
Breaking ranks with the pro­merl ical marijuana groups was the National Organization for Heform of Marijuana Laws, which condemned thn rPport as "tepid." 
"Clearly, tho time has comn for this administration tu amnnd fflderal law to allow stirinusly ill patients immncliatll legal access," said Allen St. Pierre, executive director of the NOHML Foundation. 
The arguments over using marijuana as a medication havr. grown particularly intense in the last few years in western statns whore supporters got initialiv1\s on the ballot to lngalizn tho practice. 
Voters in Alaska. Arizona. California. Novada, Oregon und Washington havn approvncl measures in support or medical marijuana. 
"This is not a front-lirw tlwrn­py ... It's dearly not for lots of people," said Miriam l'rovost, an FDA engineer and lead rnvic>wcr of the device. 
"It's for pati1rnts who have basically failml ,wnrything." 
About 2 million Anwricans suffer from rheumatoid arthri­tis. This is not tlin kind ol' arthritis common in the Plder­ly because of' tlw wPar-and­tcar of aging. Instead, rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune disease. 
Pati!mts' own immurrn sys­tems go awry and attack their 
joints, causing inf"lammation 
and stiffness as rogue immune cells nat away cartilage and eventually erode borrn. 
The disease mostly strikes womr.n, usually lrntwnen ages 25 and 50. 
Within lO years, about half are too disabled to work. 
A number or newly approvnd drugs help diminish the symp­toms and may slow progrns­sion of the disease. 




student union 
Movie: Psycho . 3/18. Thursday. 3/19. Friday. 3/20. Saturday. 
Acoustlcafe. 3/18. Thursday. 
Second City. 3/22. Monday. 
Tom Deluca: Hypnotist. We 
3/.:J.."t 'kz 1 ,. ci. 
Cushing Auditorium. Cushing Auditorium. Cushing Auditorium. 
LaFortune Huddle. Washington Hall. Library Auditorium. 
3/. 1-fi° W I Stepan Center.
1 I • T~u,"-S. 
HPC (HALL PRESIDENTS' COUNCIL) 
Keenan Diversity Week. 3/16-19 
CCC (CLUB COORDINATION COUNCIL) 
BSU  Meeting:  
3/21.  Sunday.  
Club Association  Interviews.  
3/26  Friday.  

CLASS OF 200 l 
Sophomore Slbs Weekend. 3/19-3/21. Friday-Sunday. Sophomore Spirit Week this week. 3/18. Thursday. 
Saferlde. 631-9888. 
3118.  Thursday.  
3/19.  Friday.  
3/20.  Saturday.  

Academic Pride Week. 3/18. Thursday. 
Academic Pride Week. 3/22. Monday. 
Academic Pride Week. 3/23. Tuesday. Academic Pride Week. 3/24. Wednesday. 

csc. 
Lafun. 
Where the Action Is. Where the Action Is. Where the Action Is. 
SDH. 
SDH. 
SDH. SDH. 

NO Writing Center: "Sentence Variety: How to make your sentences 3/24. Wednesday 119 O'Shag. 


MISCELLANEOUS/CAMPUS-WIDE 
Kellogg Institute: Marla PIiar Garcia Guadllla. 
3/18. Thursday. Last Day for Course Discontinuance. 3/19. Friday. NO Glee Club Spring Concert. 3/19. Friday. Image Awards. 
3/20. Saturday. Dept of Music: John Daverlo. 
3/22.  Monday.  
Dept of Music:  ND  Concert Band.  
3/23.  Tuesday.  

Irish Love Connection results wlll be sold: 3/18. Thursday. 3/19. Friday. 3/22. Monday. 3/23. Tuesday. 
HCIS C103. 0415PM. 
Washington Hall. Washington Hall. 124 Crowley. 
JACC. 
Huddle during Acoustlcafe. 
SDH  during lunch & dinner.  
NOH  during lunch  & dinner.  
SOH  during lunch & dinner.  

1030PM. 0800PM & 1030PM. 0800PM & 1030PM. 
0900PM-1200AM. 
0S00PM. 
0700PM. 0700PM. 
0300PM-0400PM. 
0600PM. 
1000PM-0200AM. 1000PM-0300AM. 1 000PM-0300AM. 
1210PM-0110PM. 
1230PM-0130PM. 
1210PM-0110PM. 1230PM-0130PM. 
sparkle." 
Tickets: $2. 
llckets: $4-students. $7-non-students. LaFortune Info Desk. 
Tacos and subs-only $1. 
Eat With Your College: Computer Sci, Comp.Engineering, Electr;Englneerlng, CHEG. 
Eat With Your College: Chem, Blochem 
Eat With Yo1:1r College: Mathematics 
Eat With Your College: Bio Sciences, Pre-Professional Studies. 
"Decentralization, Democracy, & New Political Actors In Venezuela". 

0B00PM. 0700PM-0900PM. 
0430PM. 0700PM. $1. $1. 
$1. 
$2. 
·-~------------•--..::,.;~~.,:,,,o,------------..,•-o::.__..............---------------.....-~------_,__,,.,,,.,.us_.---.......---...----­
Thur.~day, March 18, I999. The Observer• INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 11 
¦ NORTHERN fRElJHIJD 


Clinton sends holiday message urging Irish peace 
seals in  th~ cnvisionlid  I 2­ own joint meeting Thursday i.n  Wlwn  asked  whether lw  "In  a  rew short w1wks,  tlin  
mc111b11r government until thr.  Washington -their sixth since  thought Clinton supported him  limn will  come  to  bring the  
WI\SlllN<iTON  IHA starts handing its wnapons  'ft'imble dropped his ban on  or Adams, Trimble lei. out  a  new institutions to lil'n, so that  
111 a St.  Patrick's llay mes­ to an inlPrnational commission,  talking  lo  Adams  last  lengthy laugh. ''1'11 leave that  the people ol' Norlhnrn lrnland  
sagH  lo  Nortlwr11  lridand's  which tl111  accord iistablishcd  Septemhcr.  for tlrn histnry books," lw said.  finally  can  begin Lo  lake their  
1111cPrt.ain  pnacnmaknrs,  11 ncl c r  tlll'  d irnc li o n  o f  Trimhl11  - cowinner of last  Adams.  speaking  to  dnstinins  into  tlrnir  own  
l'rnsid1•nt Clinton appPalPd for  Canadian  Crn.  John  di,  year's  Nobel  Peal:(\  Pr.izc  roportors  a  half hour later,  hands," ho said.  
tlw111  all  to  cross  "tlw  last  Chast11lai11. The general atlend­ alongside moderate Catholic  said Clinton hadn'I pul him  "To  l'ully  implnmnnl  tlw  
divicl1• or tlw IH~/1('(' prm:nss" hy  Pcl W11d rwsclav's fostivities but  leadnr John Hume. who also  under any particular prcssurn.  Good Friday accord. thP par­ 
J'inally  f'nrn1ing  their  madn  no co;irncn t. The !HA  talked with Clinton  - said Lim  but had offered "an insig-htf'ul  Lins  must rosolvo th1\ir dif'for­ 
1'l'IIWSla11t-Catholi1: govPrll­ has  rnpnatedly  approach  1mc11s. Anti lo do it. tlwy hav1i  
llll'llt. Clinton, s!'d.. ing lo bridgl' dif'­1'•n•n1·1•s th.it ar1• t.hn\atnning  nijpetf'cl tlw a g I' I\ l\ Ill ti 11 l ' s plans l'nr gradual  'To RJLLY IMPLEMENT THE Gooo  into how this wholo pror.nss can  tn hav P I lw s am n spir-i l o f cooperation and trust that Ind to thn lirst agrcrnnwnt.  
t11 1111ravl'I l111• (;nod l;ridny arrord l'Paclwcl i11 BPll'asl last v1•ar. WHS tnPl'ling Sl'fllll'a1ely  disarmamnnl as amounting to surrl'ndPr.  FRIDAY ACCORD, THE PARTIES MUST RESOLVE THEIR DIFFERENCES. AND TO DO  be movod ahead." tin dnclined to  "Tlwy must !if't tlwir sights abovn thn shorl-tcirm cliff'irul­tfos. They must sec that dis­ 
~, ii h th1• two pivolal ligurPs ol' 1111' p1•a1•p prrn·Pss -Sinn 1;1•in IP;icl1•r c;,•rrv /\clams and t1lsll\l'  Tlw govc\rn­nwnl. originally sla11,d to [rn  IT, THEY HAVE TO HAVE THE SAME SPIRIT 01'' COOPERATION AND TRUST THAT LED TO THE  say what this was. Speaking  tant horizon wlwn childrnn will grow up in an Ireland l.roublc:-frP,•, 1111d not nv,:n  
l'11io11isl  l''.lrtY  l,•adcr David  for1111,d  last  FIRST AGREEMENT.'  besidl1  Irish  n!11111111bnr  how it used to l>n."  
Tnmhl1•-wh·o hav11  arguncl  OrlobPr.  now  l'rimn  Back homn in  Belfast.  how­ 
pulilidy f'11r months ovPr wlwn,  l'a('.(\S  a symbolic  Minister  nv Pr.  unidcntil'iod  gunmnn  
ii' PVN.  llw Irish 1lPp11hlican  now  cleacllino of  BnL CLINTON  B  c  r  t  i  n  killed  a  Protestant cxt.rnmist  
.-\r111v will disarm. c1f11ton's aid1•s Pmphasizl'cl  April year's  2,  this Good  PF?HSWElVT  A h e r n . Clinton  only rccBntly parolc1d from prison -one or more than  
lw was  prns1•11Ling  no  particu- Friday  - but  <loclined  to  200 paramilitary convicts to  
1a r  t·ompr11mis1•  formula  to  with  1H1  publir sign that oithor  ability to form  the  new gov­ take sides,  hut  cm p h asiz1\ct  Im frp1)d  under terms of the  
Trinrbk. llw l'rot,·slanl Pl(!Clcrl  Trimble or the IHA is pla1111i11g  ern1111)11 L was  "Lan la Ii zi ngly  Lhal at last year's SL Patrick's  accord.  
lo lwad tlw govl'l'nnwnl., who  to  hudgc\ from  llrnir oppositn  closn."  Day fnstivities al the Whitn  Polic6 said tho slaying was  
f'arns irHTPasing prPssurn with­in his own parLy 1wl l.o yi1-Id 11H1n, gro1111d lo Adams' IHA­ positions. Aflnr lhoir snµaraw snssions with Clinton. holh Trimhln and  But hn also warned that any atlnmpt to inject Sinn Pein inlo 11m system without "an actual  llouso, Northern Irish politi­cians worn pessimistic about. 'flven s1riking a peacp, accord.  probably u11co111111ctcid lo Monday's car-bomb killing of' an outspoken Catholic lawynr  
alli1·d party.  Adams welcomed llrn presi­ start" to  !HA disarmament  !In said thoy must again hav<'  by  a  Protnstanl gang that  
T r i 111 Ii I1•  Ii a s  i11 s is w ti  th a t  dnnl's interest and conl'irnrnd  would  create "a very serious  the vision  lll  seo  boyond llwir  sprang up in opposition to tlw  
Sinn  F!•in can't takt!  its 1wo  thny now intnnderl to hold their  <langi•r of things collapsing."  r.urrcnt lroublos.  piiace accord.  

Ayacht for the price of a dinghy. 
¦ CONGO 
Rebels down ZimbablVe jet 
Associated Press 
LUBAO, Congo 
Hwandan-backed Congolese rebPls, battling to advance on a southern diamond center. said Wodnesday they had shot down a Zimbabwnan jct fighter. 
The MiG aircraft was downed rrnar the govern­ment-hnld Lown of Kabinda. fiO miles nast of th0 diamond city of Mbu,ji-Mayi. af'tnr it attnmpt0d to attack an insurgent command center, rPbPI com· manders said. 
The plane crashed in rebel-controlled territory and the fate of the plane's pilot was unknown, the rebels said. 
The repoi·t could not bo indopendently con· firmed. 
On Sunday, the rebels, who are barked by Rwandan troops and weapons, said ihny had killed at least 210 Zimbabwean and Congolese troops loyal to President Laurnnt Kabila. indud­ing a Zimbabwoan battalion command(lr. Zimbabwe d"nied the report. 
Hebel commanders said they expectml to cap­ture Kabinda withln days, opening tho way for an advance on Mbu,ii-Mayi, whoso diamonds am a main source of revenue for the government and whose capture will help finm1cc thn seven-month rebellion. 
ln Lubao, 120 miles cast of Mlmji-Mayi, rcbPI soldiers unloaded boxes of ammunition anrl car­ried their wounded comrades to a small, Russian-built Antonov-28 cargo airplane that would take them to the eastern rebel strnnghold at Goma. 
Thoy were watched by the fow remaining rnsi• dents of Lubao, a small, dusty town of scattered huts and palm trees that has twcomn a base for lhe current rrbel otfonsivo. 
Tho rebel coalition of ethnic Tutsis, disaffected Congolese soldiers and opposition politicians took up arms in August, accuf:ing Kabila of' misman• ,1gemont. corruption and ethnic warmongering. Since then. they have swept thmugh thf' eastern hnlf' of Congo. 
Kahila is rocoiving military support from Angola, Namibia and Chad as well as Zimbabwe. Several or Lhe allies, plagued by conOicts and oconomic pt·obloms at homo, h11vn indicafod a rnadinoss to pull out of the war. 
Rwanda and Uganda say tlwy am backing the rebellion bHcause Kabila rnfus11d to damp down on rebels in ca.'itorn Congo who were attacking bo~h countries. 
Ugandan Presidfmt Yowt~ri Museveni left thf• Rwandan capital, Kigali, on Wednesday after a two-day visit in which hf' sou~ht to smooth out diffen•nces that have emorglld between the two allies over the conduct of joinl oporntions. 

Now you can get it all without paying for it all. Because the PowerBook® G3 is more affordable than ever (see below). Awesome Pentium-crushing power.* Massive 14.1" screen. Endless adaptibi!ity. All of which can help you work faster and more efficiently. Leaving you more time to stop and smell the ocean breeze. Come in and test the waters. 
PowerBook® G3 prices have been slashed up to $700 with prices starting at $1799.00 Available Now. 
Call now for Apple's special ND student offers ! 
OIT Solutions Center Room 112 Computing/Math Bldg 
Phone: (219) 631-7477 (1 for sales) 
Apple Education Store: 
\\·ww.applc.com/education/storc Authorized 1800.780.5009 
Value Added Reseller 
0 l 9'!') Apple Compuwr, In<' AJI r,~lus rc~crvcd. Apple, the Aj1111L• 10~1 ,, 'IKI I'< rwcrlkxrk :ire 1r:1dcniark., uf Apple c.,~;plllt'r, lnr.. rcgtilcwd in 1h~ t:$A. and other wunrric<. 
•1trf11rm,ull'c ~,~npari,.,11s arc ha.set! on 11\'ll,mark inrc~cr ll';;I. 






VIEWPOINT 
page l2 
Thursday, March 18, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
NnrRE DAME OFl'ICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
1999-2000 GENERAL BOARD 
Ell!TOR-IN•CHIF.F Michelle Krup, MANAGING J'DTTOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
M. Shannon Ry,n D.wr Rogem 
A.<\ISTANT MAN,CING fDITOR L11ir:l Pt"rel1l· 
NE\X:S EDITOR .. Tim Log:rn AD\/f.RTISJNG MANAGER... . ..........Bry:in Lutz V1EWrOll'T EDITOR.............Collcrn G,lllghcn An DESIGN MANAGLR ............... K.:nnc::t!, Kc::1r11~y SPORTS Ennna ........................ Bri.rn Ke.,,!ila Srsi-t:M.S MANAGfJL.......................Mkh.i.d R,vas S<:F.NF. FDJTOR ..............Miclwd Vanega., CO!-.fROl.1.ER ..................................T,mudiy Lane SAINT MARY''s EmruR......Colleen McCurhy GRAl'HJCS Euno1t...............,..............Joe Mueller Pt!OTO EDITOR .....................Kcvm Dalum Wre AnMIN1~,·RATOR.......................Alhson Krilla 
•1·1h' <.1bscarver i.\ rite 1nJcr~mknt ftt.-wsp.ipcr ,,uhli!.hed hy' 1hc; ML1di.:n_t:i. of €ht: Uni,•ersiry oi"Norrc l);.m,t' 4,,J.t1 (.;IC JnJ S:.aim M.iri~ College. !l ,foe~ 001 llt!\.C."-IIJrily rdlc:t:t 1.he-iml.teiti of rlu.· .1dn11nii.tr:i..im1 ot ri,he:1 in,.fiuniun. T!1~· ni.."W.s i~ r~poncJ :t'i .m;ur-.i.tdy ;Uld 1)bj.:e1ivdy ~ pu~iblc, Un.~igm:J cJ.itorial.'i r..:pr~stnl 1hr opinion ortlu: majority o! tfo: hJit1.;r-ln-Chi,J. MaH:il!Jnt,-EJiror, A.,~i...raur Ma.uagmg, F<litor aud Jep.muu:ut 1.:diwr~. C~mn11..:nt1uic~, lt:ttt'rc. tmd cuhrnm.\ pn:M.:nt du.: vit:ws of dw Juthrn., anJ. nm 111.:Ct.',..,iltily chw.c ofThe Oll.~t·ivrr. Vit:\\pou1t ,:.pnu· i... ;1v.1il.ihlr.: Ui all mcmbn., of th-.· l'\ntre [);1mc/.'int11r Marv'.\ commtmiry.;1n..l ro all rc.i,krn, ']'hi: fi-~t .:xpn:s:-ion of Ya1ying npinion!i ihrnugh lt'ttt'tc,. b, .:n1..ouwg..:t.i. · 
Contacting The Obser\'er 
l:.ditor•in•Chicf 631 .4542 Office Manager/General Information t'.i31•747 I · M,na1ting Editor/A,simnr ME 6.>J-4541 Bu,ine.sOflice t'.i31•53U News 631-'.>323 Advernsing GJJ.6900/8840 \.'iewpoiur 631,).~0j System., 651·8lD9 Spom Gi1•4543 Fax 6.l1•6927 Scene 631-1540 Ad £.!\fail observe,@Jarwin.cc.nd.cdu S.1inr Mary\ 63 I -4.n4 News E·I\Ltil ob.crm.obsncw.,. I e0nd.cdu l1horo/~'d1 AJmini:m,Hor 631-8767 Vimpoin1 E-Mail Viewpoim. I@nd.edu 

¦ So, WHAT'S MY POiNT 
Hello, My Name is 310-10-2220 

¦ DomJESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
¦ O.uon: OF THE DAY 
NO, 7ll8Yf:Q/7, EJUTtpTM£7ZJU 
YOI.J 5CW!i?THIN<3,., 

, The cruelest lies are often told in silence.' 

-Robert Louis Stevenson 
I am a card-carrying, state-certified, form-filler. So am the rest of you. This is because we have all attended college, and in order to apply for college, schol­arships, or linandal aid, we have to !ill out reams of forms. cramming our entire lives into little 8-by-10-inch spaces and 

Nakasha Ahmad 
hoping to organize them in some way to prove that we have, after all, led a mean­ingful and important life in Lim twenty .wars we'v1e been here (as we can barely put together who!n sPntcmces until wn am ten. this may put us at a slight disad­vant.age). 
We have berm so programmed to fill them out and reveal our most personal dreams and aspirations that we don't think twice about giving intensely per­sunal information to total strangers. We cheerfully send off. via the ever•dubious United States Postal Service and the insecure Web. our Social Security num­bers and our other deep, dark secrets for anyone and everyone Lo see. 
Now if that does nut signify the bound­less optimism and trust that Americans put in their fellow person, 1really don't know what does. 
Take, for example, our Social Security numbers. Nine little numbers, peppered with a couple of dashes. On paper, those numbers don't look so important. But with those nine numbers your average, garden-variety stalker can find out your nam(~. date of birth, race, gender, address, phone number, driving record, motlrnr's maidnn name, what you wore lo last·year's l'ormal (if' you bought it with a credit card), and your dog's favorite 1mppy chow. 
Yikes. This is pretty powerful informa­tion. And what is even more amazing is that we Americans willingly fill out the credit card applications and financial aid forms and give out the all-important ­code that defines us. We've. basically handed out the code with our life on it and said. "Herc. this is my life. Feel free to steal it from me if vou like." 
Thus. the growing.cases of "switched" or mistaken idcmtity. People ,vho have had their Social Security numbers usurped can't go to work or buy any• thing electronically because they arc presumed dead. 
'IF WE CAME UP WITH 
ANOTHER SOCIAL 
SECURITY PLAN, WE 
WOULD LOSE THE NUM­
BERS. IF WE DON'T 
ASSIGN EVERYONE HERE 
A NUMBER, WHAT WOULD 
WE DO? WE WOULDN'T 
JUST LOSE A SAFETY NET FOR THE ELDERLY. OH, 
NO. WE'D LOSE OUR­
SELVES.' 
Conversely, there are those who receive bills for things they've never bought and wind up in debt because someone else has taken their Social Security number and pretended to be them. 
Actually, this is the real reason why we can't reform Social Security, Contrary to popular belief. it's not because the AAHP (i\merican i\ssociation of llctircd Persons) is tlrn largest, most powerful and most active inlfircst group in the United States with a lol at st.ake in the preservation of the safety net. Nope. It's because if we came up with another Social Security plan, we would lose the numbers. It would just complicate the system. If we don't assign everyone here a number, what would we do'? 
We wouldn't just lose a safety net for the elderly. Oh, no. We'd lose ourselves. Our identity. We'd lose our ability to keep track of every trait of every person in the U.S. !low would colleges keep track of who .they're admitting and who they're not? 
Every college brochure states that "Here, you're treated like a person, not like a number." lfwe eliminate numbers, we'd eliminate one of' the biggest "selling points" that every collogn uses to !urn unsuspecting high schoolers into their institution. 
So maybe we should just make it oasier on the poor government. Maylrn we should just forget about naming our kids. Taylor? Amanda? Jennifer? Nah. Useless names. How about 355-67-8437'?. Or 222-45-6895? I like the sound of that. Why use names? We're already filed under the numbers. 
Hi, I'm 310-10-2220. 
Who are you? 
Nakasha Ahmad is a junior al Saint Mary's majoring in political science, phi­losophy and English. You can e-mail her at ahma3495@saintmarys.edu. And no. she's not rash enough to reveal her artu­al Social Security number in The Observer, 
The views expressed in this column are rlwse of lite author and not 1u•ce:,sar­ily those of '11w Obseruer. 




VIEWPOINT 
·1·1iur~day, MarLh 18, 1999 
---------------------------page 13 
¦ m·A MORE JUST ANO HUMANE WORLD 
A Different Look at the Golden Dome 
l.1•1 1111• Lnll you a slory. h1rliN Tlw poi11t ol'this story is that ill tlw Y""r. a f'rinnd and I w11rc Llw "Notre Daum I•:x1wriencc" is studying in 1h11 l.11w l.ibrury. not t.lrn samn f'or 1iv11rv1fnc. For ll1THSio11ally. 1'11 <;(Udy lh1•r<• 1wopln of' color it can hn ,'l VPl'Y b1•i:1ws1• it's murh quinlN than dil"lkull one. This oun nxpnri­11!-shurgli Library al times. At't,•r 1•111:1\ that I spl'ak about is by no having lw1•11 t.lwrn only about an nrnans a singular <wnnt that just hour, I lwcl LO !ISP tlw rnstroom. lmppmwd 011 campus. Thn, truth, Wr•!I. ii' yo11'w 1•wr llP1m in llw sad as it may hn, is that thnro I.aw Lihrnry. you know Lhat the huvc bcnn othcir cvenls and silu­ard1i11•r1uri• am! dPsign of tlw ations wlwrn l was forced Lo huilcfi11g is !:::=:=============== Pxamirw Llw 
such that ii !'llSV to g!'I 

Just,•n 
lust'. ll'l al11111• find II rPstroom. 
So1111·l111w, 
Johnson 
I c·rHlt-d up 
011 thP S!'l'­011<1 /1oor i11 the an•u of l'l'Sf'Hrrh pNiodirals and thn likl'. I hi1silaLPd in w,kin!,{ sonw­0111• wlwn• to lind tlw n•slrnom IH•nws1! !'didn't want to dist11rb a11y111w. Whiln I lookPd. I noti1·nd a fpw pPoplP who Sl'PmPd anrrnyP<I or disturhPcf by my pl'l•sc•m·c•, but naturally I th11ughl nothing of it.. ll took nw about I() 111int1L1•s Lo find tlw rPstrnom. To sav 1h11 loast. ii wns much 1•asi1•i· finding my way hark to my st11dv arPa. 
No more: tha11·1ivl' minlll(•s latPr. I was approadwcl by cam­pus sPrurily and quPstimwd as 11, why I was t'Vl'II in lhn library. (l\1•Pp in mind that this is bt'l'orn 1was askPd to show prnol' of' srhool idl'nlifirntion.11 then askPel what was tlH' mason for surh snuliny and llw spt·urity otlic·l'r 1·1•pliPd hy saying that tht>rt' had heP11 "multiplo rnports oJ' an individual. that lils ( my) prnlilP, suspl't'lPd of' slPaling." 
Wlwn I ask1•d what this prn!i!P was, tlw onit·1•r simply p11i11wd at tlw 111p of my lwad. upon whil'lt lay lwa.ulif'ul drt\adlocks. WPII. lw tlwn askPd for school idPnlilic:ati11n. Onn' I procltwPd it, lw irnnll'diatidy and gmwirll'ly slaJ'tPd to apologizP for his harsh and ignorant approach towards nw. I stPrnly ynt polilPly s111pp1id him in mid-s(•nlnnc11 H11d assurnd him that what was hi-ing said had bnPn heard many LilllP'i lwl'orn in my last !'our y1•ars al Not n• Danie. 
Yo11 St\!', tlw v1\ry iss111• of my "profill'" disLurbs mr. Bef'on~ I go 011. l(i! mr intrmlucc1 mysPII' and givP you a "prnlilr" of' who I ,ll!l. l\ly 11:11111• is .Justin Johnson and I am a lil'th-yrar srnior grnduating with dngl'!lrs in sod­ology. anlhropology and a minur in music. l am an African­.-\m1•riran from San Francisco, C:alil'ornia. I'm upprnxinrnlPly !i' IO'' and hnv11 drnadlm:ks. Is this i11ti111idaU11g to you? Wotrld you havP callnd sncurity if' you had sr1•11 Ill!' walking in t.lw halls of' llw I.aw 1.ibrnry, or any build­ing for UiaL matlnr'! You prnha­lily would h11VP. This is what dis-Lurbs me. I'm not in any huilding tu stt1nl or commit any crinrn, hut lilr somco1w lo assumn that as my intPntion is frustrating and disappointing. nsp1wially lwrn al. Notrn llanw, .lust ll11caus11 I havn dr1!1tdlocks and llf'causn I'm not in tlw "majori­ty," should nol make 1111~ a "sus­1inct." of anything. My book bag and Ill arP my saving gra('OS, and I was fortunate enough to hav,: them on mt1. Let's not ,wen 
"rnal" 
natur11 of 
Nutrn Dame and its tnw chantctl'r: 
that is, the 
llniwrsity's prioriLi1!s. By no nwans am I saying 
that Not.rn llanw hasn't lwnn 
good Lo mn. In f'acL sonrn of' my 
IH'st monwnls haµp,'11nd lrnre. 
Th1\ f'riPmls I've madn and some 
of'Uw rnlalionships that I've 
f'ornrnd ai-n truly sp,icial Lo me. 11' 
I had this PXpi'ricnrn to do ovnr 
again, I would do it in a hnart­
bnal. Ilownvt\1-, what n1mains is 
that tlwrn is sonwthing to bo 
said about situations like thn one 
I Pxpnrienced in thn Law · 1.ibrarv. 
In rn·y opinion, there is a lack 
of'awarerwss that nnnds to be 
addrnssPcl. It's nol just about my 
situation or those similar. but it 
is. again. in tlrn UnivPrsity's pri­
oriliPs. Why is that I am quns­
tionnd in such il llHlnJHff nt an 
institution of' higlrnr lnarning'! 
Why an11l't morn l'acully of color 
lwrn that would undoubtndly 
reprcsm1t dilforPnt p1·rspflctives 
and offer a variety of' thoughts'! 
This is rnal to me hem at Notre 
Danrn. Th1mi are many pcopln 
who don't want to hear about 
this, but, as an Al'rican-
Anwrican student and a nrnm­
lwr of this "family," I have to 
spnak -and spnak loudly. I'm 
ld't lo question how a Univnrsi1y 
so rich in faith, tradition, and 
rnsourcns can really bn trun to 
Lim idnals it claims? 
You might b11 wondering why 
I've 1•vpn decided lo attend this 
University. I'll ldl you why. 
Simply, I'm not one to givn up 
nasily. I dflSPfV(l to attend this 
llnivnrsity as much as the next 
man or woman. As lhe lirsl pt!r­
son in my family to attnnd col­
lngt\, I have many things to livr 
up to. I'm not just here for mn. 
hut I'm Imm for my f'amily and 
my ancestors. Lifo has not !wen 
smooth for me lwrn. bul I am 
!Paving tlrn University of Nolrn 
Damn an in-tPlligonl and conli­
dent man equipped lo handle 
llw world. What happmrnd to me 
in tlw I.aw Library wns anollwr 
rr,Lson for me lo continue (m 
hnri• through graduation. Tim 
diploma from this University is 
worth mnre Lhan the gold finish 
on tlw Domn ils1•lf'. The world is 
mirw and nothing ·can stop me. 
Justin .fohn.rnn is a Sunior majoring in sociology and nnthropology nnd minoring in music. For .1 More Just And 1/runane World is a bi-weekly rolumn sponsort•d by lhlr Center for Social Conc,1rns. E-mail com­rrumts to: ND. ndcnlrsc. l @nd.edu 
The llll!W.<: <'Xpressed are lhosC' ofthe author and du not neces­sarily n•flect the views ofthe 
¦ GUEST CmUMN 

Can peact1 be taught? And 
learned'! 
When l asked mysdf' Lhosn 
•questiuns 12 years ago, I rnspond,~d Ii ke a journalist. Pholrn a fow acadnmic experts. get their readings and lhnn I'd have my answers. But after phoning the experts and listening to them talk much and say lit­tle, I decided to do the 
Some studPnls opnn their minds to this immediately. They understand Gandhi: "Nonviolence is the wnapon orthe strong," They believn King: "The choice is nol bPtween violence and nonvi­olence but bntwecn nonvio­lencc and nonexistence." 
Other students have doubts which I encourage them to East. Iran and Iraq, lo Nortlwrn lrnland. Morn than 
I0,000 /\mcwirnns am killnd in handgun homicides annu­ally. Those who d,~fond vio­lent solutions have some large numb11rs of' d1iaths to defend. 
Students am hungry to learn nonviolnncc. They understand it is much morn 
than a noble idnal, it is 
kind of legwork and per­================= also a basic survival skill. 
sonal involvement that truly gets to tlw truth. l went to tlrn school near-l)St my office in down­town Washington. D.C. and offered my snrvices as a volunteer tcaclrnr of peace. . Jlt0 pri11cipal and rac­urty welcomed me, as did the studnnts. That semestr,r, 25 juniors and seniors enrolled in my course "Altcrnativns to Violence." They wrm1 able to grasp intellnctually whaL they alriiady had absorbml emo­tionally: the haunting aware­ness that tlwir f'utmc is thrnatencd, their present enswampnd by excessive mil­iLary, m1vironmental and family viol,,nce. and their nation's past record of nine declared wars and I 35 und11­clarnd wars like Grenada, Libya, Panama. and the Gulf. The students loved thn course, and I cherished their 
company. 
Sinco that happy begin­ning. l took "Alternatives to Violencn" Lo four universities -American, Georgntown, Maryland and Gnorg11tow11 Law School -and two more high schools. In 12 ynars, I've taught more than 5,000 sludonts. With all of llrnm, I nmphasizml onu thmne: altnrnativ,~s lo vio!,rnce exist and. if individuals and nations can organize them­selvCJs properly, nonviolent l'orcP. is always stronger than violent force. 
LParning nonviolence means that wn d1\dicatP 
our hnarts. minds, tinrn and money lo a commit• nrnnt lhat thn forcn of love, tlrn force of' truth. 
Colman 
McCarthy 
Urn f'orcfl of' justice and force of organized rnsis­tancn to corrupt pownr is always morn df'm:tivc-i, 
express. Thny do, repeatedly. moral and nnduring than tlrn Nonviolence and pacifism force of fists. guns. armins are beautiful theories and and nukes. ideals, they tnll mn. but in Yet we still n~sist. the real world llrnro am Thnodorn Hoszak explains: muggflrs and international The usual pattnrn senms to despots. bP that peopltl givn nonvio­
;\If I asknd or the "rnalists" lence two wneks to solve was Lo think about lil'e's two their problnm and tlrnn risks. Do you depend on vio­decidn it has "f'ai!t1d." Tlrnn lence or nonviolence to crn­tlrny go on with violence for atn peace'? Nol just peace in tlw nnxt hunclrnd ynars and some vague "out there" it senms nt!VPI' to "fail" or lw among govnrnmenLs. but rPjnctnd. peace in our homes, wlwrn As a stud1111L, you havn a spousu and child abusn arn moral right to cmrrsns in al record highs, and pPacn in peace. If' your school donsn't our schools, whcrn tnenagP offnr them, or has too fow. suicide is rampant, and conLact mn at tlw C1mtm-for peace in our noighborhoods, Tnaching l'nac11 and wn can whore 25 million U.S. l10us<'­work to rnl'orrn your school. holds ha.vii guns, and pnace I.d's not givn pnacn a on our planet, where 142 chann1, lnt's giV(l it a placl' in nations arc spcmding 900 bil­tlrn curriculum. lion this ynar on arms and armies and where 1987 saw Colman A1c<:arthy. a more wars and conllicts than Washingtonjo11ma/ist. is the any prnvious year in history. founder and director of' Ill<' 
Peace lhrough violence has (,'enl('r.fiir Teacllin_q Peace in failed. Nnarly 80 million have Washington. /). C. lie will he been killed in wars since appearing tonight at 7p.m. in 1<JOO, a 500 percent incrnasn I(}J /)ehartolo. over tlrn 19th century. About The lliews expressed in this 40,000 a year are killod a column are tho.,·,, ofthe month in more than 40 wars . alllhor and rwl riecessarily and conflicts from lhe Middle those ofThe Observer. 
got somethingto say? 
viewpoint. l@nd.edu 
imaginn what would havn hap­Cenltir for Social Concerns or pmwd if I didn't have, oithor. The OhserPer. 

page 14--------------------------O THE ----------------Thursday, March J8, 1999
BSERVER 
Springtime at Notre Dame bri 
TIIB Class DI 2001 /ltBSBRIS SonllamarB Siblings WBBkBnd 

By KRISTEN FITZPATRICK Scene Writer 
This weekend, campus will be inundated with hundrt>ds or would-lw Domers for Sophomore Sibs Weekend. 
Sophomores are inviled to bring their siblings f'or a weekt>nd full of activities, in an attempt to let tlw youngst1\rs to l'ind out what life is like at Notrn Dame, Ovflr 600 sophomores and their siblings will lw in attendance for the fostivitics. Tlw majority of' siblings will be. ages 10 to 18, although somo are as young as 6 and others as old as 25. They will join their brothers and sis­ters for a weekend of fun and relaxation. 
The weekend is not limited to siblings or sophomores, as in the case of only children. They are encouraged to "adopt" a sibling from one of their relatives or from friends who are overseas. 
The weekend's activities will be kicked off on Friday with a barbecue, followed by a movie and free passes to tlrn Gorrh gameroom. 
Saturday f'l\atures a brunch with the Leprechaun and members or the football team. Tours of the stadium will follow. whero evct'y­one will get to see the playing field without all the rrowds. A dorm-versus-dorm Olympic com­petition will take place in the afternoon at Stepan field, followed by a formal dinner with Father Hesburgh and football coach Bob Davie. 
The sophomores and their siblings will havP-a chance lo dance Uw night away at Senior Bar and may nnjoy sundaes shortly after midnight. 
The wcek1rnd will wrap up with a Mass at the Keenan-Stanford chapel, and a closing brunch 
aftcrwasds, 
This weekend is dedicated to giving the sopho­mores a chance lo have a l"amily activity a2_ a class. Sophomore Class President llunt Hanover points out that sophomores do not have a uni­versity-sponsored activity to allow them to spend time with their families. 
"The seniors have Senior Week, the juniors have Junior Parents' \'Veeknnd and the freshman have Freshman Orientation. This activity gives the sophomores a chancP to have some family time," Ilanover explains. 
Although this weekend is not sponsored by the University, it is something th:it the class officers work hard on to show thp,ir support for their classmaU~s. 
The class of' 2001 has been planning tht! activi­ties. for this wookcnd for quite some time. Sophomores Mari Chris Trejo and Maria Alveras head a rommittee with six other sophomores vvho have been planning Lhis woekend since Urn school year lrngan 
The dass ul"ficors also hope that this wcPkend will give siblings a chance to sec their Dorner brothers and sisters, whom they might not ho able to see ofton. "Sonw of these kids don't get lo sec how their brothers and sisters live at school, The only opportunity they may havo had to soo their life was at Freshman Orientation, and things may have changed since then, ·· said Hanover. 
The Class of" 2001 's officers have high hopPs for Orn success ol' this wnekend: "We hopn that it is a great time and that the kids gel to spend some lime with their siblings," cxplainod llanovnr. 

Highlights of SophomoreSiblings Weekend 
IITURDIY: 
.•Brunch with the leprechaun and members of the football team 
•Football stadium tours 
•lnterhall 
orvmoic comnetilions at Stepan Center 

•formal 
Dinner with Father Hesburuh and Coach Bob Davie 

•Dance 
at Senior Bar 


SUNDAY: 
•Mass at Keenan-Stanford Chapel 

IICIIII CIII Cl ¦ ll 11 111,111 ¦ 11 
Chicago's famous Second Citv theatre group, cons1sunu of imnrov comedv actors, will perform at Washington Hall at 81.m. on March 22 
TlckelS are on sale at lafonune Into oesll: S4 students and $1 non-students 
Second Citv is the home of manv actors, such as Julia louis-Drevtus and Chris Farlev 
Hvonotist Tom Deluca returns to 
Notre Dame alter asuccesstul 
performance last vear 
Wednesdav, March 24 at 7u.m. 
in the librarv Auditorium 
Thursdav, March 25 at l o.m. in Stepan Center 
Tickets uo on sale at 6:30 p.m. at the door tor $2 

s .­
________________________ page 15
Thursd.iy, March 18, 1999---------------------OTHE 
BSERVER 

striends, tamilv, faith and tun 
camnus Ministrv nrenares tar 'Na Breater laue' 

Following this large group gatlrnr­has bc<111 a .trying limn for many sl11­ing, "No Grnatnr Lovll" will brnak up dtH1ts. With botched airplane travnl. in to th n111 rou 11 ds ol' discussion forgottabln and f'orgottnn nights on 
groups. Among the sevc1ral groups various tropical islands or monoto­available, Campus Ministry will pro• nous stays at home. returning to llw vidH opportunitins to spc~ak about such norm is what nvery student wants ror topics as Jesus, Chi'istian sexual t.hn ho,rni-strntch or the smnnstnr. But ethics, l'aith in action and scripturn. tlrn onsnt of spring also marks a tinw 
/\s Santoi1i noted, "No Grnater of' rebirth and rnjuvcnalion in all Love" is a unique nvent or faith-living. asports or lifo. FlowPrs hloom. c;rasses 
"Tln~rn haV(' been ot.her places that become grnPn. Bunnins hop amidst. llw do this sort of' thing, but rnally. it can warm beauty of' tlw landscapn. only be compared in structure, but And Easter comns -pnrhaps tlw not in its spirit.... wn havn a uni4u11 greatest chance for rnhirth in thing going hen!," he said. Catholics and Christians in gt>1ieral. 
While many students have atttirHkd "No Creator Lovn" provides a chanrn various religious gatherings through­to nnhancn tlw signilknncn of' Faswr, out their livos -Mass, youth ralli1is, as it t:omos just as tlw season retreats or Bibln studies -"No approaches its climax. Greater Lov1i" mixes all of tlrnse up "Tho point ·is to, in a very ch\ar and into a nnw faith experience. Though concrete way, to provide the space in this is a first time thing at Notre pnopln's livr,s to have an l'ncountl'r Damn, Santoni hopes that it will with Christ," Baxt11r added. beconw a new campus tradition. Santoni staled that though they will 
To do this, Campus Ministry has not turn anyo1w down for llrn evc>nt. il implcnrnntml an aggressive campaign would be helpful Lo sign up as soon as to get students to participate. Sending possible, in order lo pick and choose I 0.000 postcards and flyers out lo all among tlrn various discussion groups. Notrn Danrn students, both on-and But from tlw looks of things, wlrnlPver '."" off-campus, unclorgraduates and h a pJl p, n s L h is Sa Lu r cl a y w iIJ lw a graduat!'s, il. lrnpns to attract as many lrnalthy and lwlpf'ul t!x1wriPnce all llw students as possibhi. way around. Tiu• day c>1Hls with tlw 
This wiclHspread. massive campaign group gathPring in a closing Mass. surnly sPnds tlrn message that "No Aft.Pr that, all partkipm1ts will walk Grr.ater Love" is for py_cryonn. away with a 1ww s1•11se of' their own Though it dons sncm to be an faith. and a rc•nc>wcHI ll'asP on t.lwir Pmphatirally C.atholic. PVc>nt, Santoni tinw not only 011 this c11m1rns, but i11 feels lhal ils uniqup, quality makes the their life as a wholP. C\VPnl that much morP univr.rsal. "This sort of' gt>ls us hark in thP 
"It's so nm thing new. a II d that mindset," Santoni said. "So if' you m1rnns 11111'amiliar. But il's gonna givn slacked off during l.c>nl, lhis is onl' pnople a run limn, a way to let loose good way to put in your timP,. and and lr!arn sonw stuff and la chancel f'ocus on somo things of' tlw spirit lo reenergize," he remarked. rather than tlw mind, which we do a "Espncially a('tc!r spring brPak, a lot of lot hnre, or the body, whirh may havt• 
1wople probably weren't focusing on lrnnn happening ovl'r spring brPak... their spiritual livos ... This is a good way to get recharged and get rnady for Easlnr, which is the Church's biggest ccde­

Anne O'Meara Heaton
bration." lndePd, spring brnak 
1994 Noire Dame graduate returns ta South Blind ta 011rtorm aconcBn at lllll'I c,,,this Fridav at 8:30 o.m. Performing with Frank Marotta Jr., Heaton will be 11/aving songs 
tromher mast rBcent album, "Anne O'Meara Heaton live." 
.. 
Heaton Is staooina at Notre Dame in the midst 
ofhBI MidWBSI tour atvarious C0//868 VBnUBS. 
, 
Shaw vour suooon tor atel/aw Domer tomor­
rownightatLula's Cate. 
By MICIIAEI. VANEGAS 
',n•11< blotm 
I l iS S J) I' i 11 gl i1111' ll l I\ 0 t rC I) a 111 P • Spring lm•t1I,; is over. and though it is usually tlw hi1,1;hligl!t lor lowlightl l'or l!lost sl1HIP11ts al any 1111iv1,rsily, thosn al NolrP llamn lrnvP somnthing clsP to look forward lo, p<•r­
haps somPI !ling llt>t· 
lt>r. TltP li11w of' spring 
l>rnak is ,dso marki•d liv I.Pill, a 1·r111'.ial linw o·r I.hi' VP,tr Oil till• llrn11an ('.alh11lit-cal,•11­dar. Bui witlt spring lirPak still i11 Notrn 
Il ii Ill I'' S t' 011 P (' I j VI' 
1!11'111orv, L,•nt SPPlllS 
lo IH' ·for,..(olt1•11 ­
sn111Pllii11,:.; 110! thought ah11t1I c•xrPpl during 
that 011P hour 011 Saturday c•v1•11i11g or S1111dav. ii' PV<'II tlw11. 
T1l c;ras1• !llf' mid­Sl'llll'Sl.l'r malaisP with whit·h spring lm•al,; i11fusl's thP slu­dPnt body. Campus \linistrv has d1•vPl­11pPd ,;No Crl'alPI' l.11v1•." a 1·a111p11s-wiclP 1'\'1'111 mc•anl lo rPill­\'igora tP sludPnLs' fa iI h -Ii J'.-d II ring t Iiis ... nlr•1n11 sPasr111. 
,\d,,•rtis,•d as "a NOi.rt' llamP day of prayPr, Ill II Sir .J II cl I'!' 11](] \' a1." "No c;r.,atPr l.o\•p" will tak1· plarf' this Saturday at South !lining 11,~II. 
"Noln• llanw has ,1 u11iq11" romhinalion of sluclPnts. pro­l'Pssors. staff. P11Prgy land I attilud1•." said Frank Santoni. Campus Ministry i11t,•r11 a11tl roordinalor oi' tlw Pvnnl. "\\'p'rp trying to roll all that. inlo 'No c;rc•at<'r l.ovt•.· to make• il a NolrP llanw day for Nolrn llanH• slud1•nts." 
"No c;r1•11lc•r 1.ovp" will liPgi11 al 10::w a. m. with a larg<' group nH'Pling Ind hv 1:athPr t\lid1aPI Baxt1•r. Baxl1!r will ,;rt as 1•111rPP throughout tlw day, providing participants with tho oppor­tunity f'or Lcrntnn praynr. The nvent will conti11uc~ wit Ii Father Cyprian Consiglio lc~ading the group in musical praynr. Baxtl!r bnlievns Consiglio's prns1rncc' will mako the clay ospocially more signilkant. 
"!Io's vciry praynrful. llc's a monk." 
Baxlt•r said. "He's had a lot of life 1•xp1!riPnt'.C\S !that will lwlpl in bringing thn !ifo or Christ to stud<'nts." 
"No Greatm Love" will offer a vari­1'1.y of faith-sharing oµporlunitins, usi1q.( tlw knowlo<lgn of both Baxtor and Consiglio. tlw pnrsonal touch uf sludt•nt s1wak1•rs and the universal spirit of music. Tlrn first part of the day should make l'or an interesting and thought-provoking time. 

scene wants good people to write good· features 
CALL 1-4540 FOR MORE 
INFO 
page 16 The Observer• SPORTS Thursday, March 18, 199') 
¦ MAJOR LEAGUE SOCCER 
Chicago Fire looks to burn competition 
Associa tcd Press 
NEWYORK 
Major League Soccer starts its fourth season Saturday, facing two straight y<'ars of declining attendance but with far fewer concerns than any tinrn·since it began. 
"The question doesn't seem to be anvmore if we're going to survivn: but how wo'rp going to make the next step to beiug one of thP-top sports," Columbus Crew forward Brian McBride said. 
The 12-team league opens after considerable movement of big-name players, a shake­up ai MLS headquarters, the absence of coach Bruce Are·ua and a pi:mding lll.wsuit attll.ck­ing the structure of tho league. 
''I've said every year that each season is the most impor­tant,"MLS commissioner Doug Logan said. "You have to take that with a grain of salt." 
There are f'ivc games Qtl opening day, highHghted by defending champion Chicago Fire at San Jose. and a new look to rosters following major trades involving Haul Diaz Arce, Alexi Lalas, Tony Meola and John Harkes. 
'Tm OK. but the ones who are really hurt are the fans, who arc loyal to teams and players and then get treated like this," Meola said. "But it's a reality in this league." 
Most rosters are all but set, with only a few foreign alloca­tions still pending. D.C. United, Chicago and Los Angeles are still the powers, but Columbus is a contender for MLS Cup '99 on Nov. 21 in Foxboro, Mass. 
The Crew, run by Lamar Hunt, inaugurate their stadium May 15 against New England. The 22,500-seat park is the first stadium in the United States built specifically for soc­cer. Season-ticket sales arc up 45 percent in Columbus. 
D.C. lost the MLS title game to Chicago in October but still won the bigger prize'...,.... the InterAmerican Cup against 13razil's Vasco da Gama. 
"D.C. is still the team to boat in the East, until somebody knocks them off," McBride said. 
Washington Wt)nt through the most dramatic ch11ngfcls. 
While Chicago and Los Angeles return virtually intad, United bad to send defender Tony Sanneh to Germany a.nd midfielder John Barkes to New England Lo get under tho approximate $ 1.7 million salary cap. 
Washington also lost Anma to the U.S. national team.Arena won the first twq MLS titles and the InterAmi:1dca11 crown. He is succeeded by Thomas nongen. 
The average crowd at MLS games last year, lnduding two expansion franchises, dropped to 14,312 from 14,616, but overall attendance incre:tsed by more than 400,000. · · 
Season-ticket sales are up just two percont from <1. yClar ago, but a shift in the schedule to have 58 percent of the league's 192 games on Saturday is expected to boost the gate. 
The season begins with a big change at le,igmi headquar­ters; Sunil Gulati was stripped ofhis post as deputy commis­sioner last month, supposedly over renewing the contract of midfielder Tab Ramos without consulting the MetroSta.rs. 
Many are skittish about how the league will function with­out the one man primarily 
.. responsible for all player-con­tract negotiations. · Another issue is an antitrust lawsuit filed by the players' association. The case concerns the foundation of the league's business structure as a single entity. The suit was filed before the start of the 1997 season and is notexpected to go to trial until after the season. · 
¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Diamondbacks bow to Cubs 
Associated Press 
MESA, Ariz. 
Sammy Sosa's new home run bow has Todd Stoltlemvre b1-mt out of shape. · 
"Nobody wants to br embar­rassed," Stottlemyre said after Sosa hit two homPrs off him Wcd1rnsday in the Chicago Cubs' 8-5, I0-inning loss to the Arizona Diamondhricks. 
"I sure don't remember Mickey Mantle bowing al'ter home runs," Stottlemyre said. "I guarantee Joe DiMaggio didn't bow. I bet fWPrything I got Lou Gehrig didn't. Jacki,• Hobinson, Roberto CIPnrnnte. Those are great players. Those are guys who paved llw way !"or us." 
Sosa raised his home run total tu seven. tho most in spring training and two more than his 1999 spring tolal. lie pickt-id up the habit of bowing to fans during the All-Star tour of Japan last f'.ovember. 
"They're going to havn a lot nf opportunities to so<' me showing the bows, showing respect for fans." said Sosa. 
•.vho has hit the home runs in just 22 at-bats. 
Sosa, 3-for-17 (.167) against Stottlemyre during the regular season· with no homers and eight strikeouts. hit a two-run homer to right-center in the first and a solo shot to left­center in the third. 
Each time he crossed the plate, he stopped after a few steps for a crisp bow to· the seats. 
"I respect the way he and Mark McGwire put baseball back on the map last year," Stottlemyre said. "It's a huge credit to him personally." 
The bows, however, crossed Stottlemyre's line. 
"I took it as offonsive," he said. "I don't bow after a strikeout or a win. Just play the game, be professional and move on." 
Sosa was, well, unbowBd. 
"l\o comment," he said when informed of Stottlemyre's rema.rks. The bows, he said. 

are "showing respect f'or all the fans who come out here seeing the game." 
After hitting 66 homers last year, four short of the record set bv Mark McGwire, Sosa bulke·d up during the of'fsea­son. 
He is two ahead of McGwire in the meaningless spring training race. 
"I have a gym in my house. I was working out two times a day," Sosa said. 
Did he exPrcise during his numerous travels, too? "I was working out on the 
pla1rn," he joked. 
Stottlemyre, making his fourth spring start, allow1id thrnr, runs and fivr, hits in 2 2­3 innings. 
Cubs starter Kr,vin Tapani gavn up five runs -f'our earned -and six hits in 2 1-3 innings. He has an 8.59 EH/\ in thrr,r, spring starts, allowing seven earned runs in 7 1-3 innings. 
Matt Williams drove in threr, runs l'or the Diamondbacks with a two-run doubln in the first and a solo homnr in the third. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.111. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 Sooth Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. , 
NOTICES  SUMMER EMPLOYMENT: ART EDUCATION  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  Beautiful brass bed ,queen size, with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe  •• ATTENTION LESBIAN, GAY. BISEXUAL AND QUESTIONING  Colin I'm sorry I abandoned the group mentality yesterday but lunch  
ASSISTANT  219-291-7153  frame.New.never used.still in plas­ STUDENTS •• Original student  was calling.  
How Green is Green?  SNITE ART MUSEUM Get  tic.$235  group will hold important general  
Wmk in Ireland on a Student  teaching experience while  House For Rent  21 9-862-2082  meeting TONIGHT. Call into line  Who will replace Spoon? Find out in  
Work Abroad Program and find out! Call 1-888-Council and ask tor  making a di!ference in South Bend!Assist Education  4-5 Bedroom Close to Campus Includes: Dishwasher,  I  TICKETS  for details 236-9661.  next week's classifieds ...  
Tom.  Curator with summer youth  Washer/Dryer, Fridge, Stove.  One -two -three -GO'  It's time for fantasy-league, draft­ 
ILOST & FOUND I  art program focusing on museum objects and art  Remodeling Kitchen in spring. RENT REDUCED! Call 289-4712  NEED GRADUATION" TICKETS  Burt, how was your Russian friend?  pick mistake time! Collect all 400 of these fine examples of how not to  
making.June 1-July 30, 15-20  Call Kelly  run a fantasy baseball team ...  
Lost: 100 CDs that were in a black  hours per week.Fine Arts &educa­ Tri-level 3 bdrm house, 1-1/2 mi.  @ 243-8932  Happy St Patrick's Day, everybody!  
CaseLogic carrying case. Lost in  tion majors with exp  from campus across from park with  Mistake #42: Making a blockbuster  
Lafortune the night ot 2126/99.  teaching &/or working with  1-112 baths, family room with fire­ f need graduation tickets!  I'm never coming to work like this  trade to acquire Cubs pitcher Kerry  
"  Monetary reward being offered if  children preferred.INCLUDES  place, 2-car garage, fenced-in back  Call Kelly  again.  Wood a day before he is pro­ 
found. No questions asked. Please call Brian at 4-1126 w/ any  ROOM & BOARD June 20 July 30. (6/20-7/30,additional Work  yard. AC. stove, refrig, W/D, G/D & D!W. $995/mo. 683-5038 or 232­ Look out, Laura! It's the ...(insert  nounced "out for the season" due to a torn ligament.  
info.  Study hours-if eligible-with  4527  scary music here) Desk Phantom!  

 National Youth Sports  
 Mistake #43: Acquiring Gary  
LOST: Gold Locket. Oval ­if Program,for total 40 hrs/wk if rnd:c;;~;~~ I~~~l~~::1~~i;r~~~-~l35 '-SU_M_M_E_R_CA_M_P_J_O_B_S____, IApp. de~~e~p~~NT  New 3-4 bdrom home for lease. Fireplace, family room, 2-car garage, 2 lull baths. AU deluxe appls. A/C. $1200/mo 232-4527 or 683-5038.  Fax it fast at THE COPY SHOP in Lafortune. FAX Sending and Receiving· 631·FAX1 When you need copies ..  Look for Desk Phantom action fig­ures at all particpating McDonalds and Burger King stores. Congratulations to Kenny, the first inanimate object to earn a position  Sheffield in yet another blockbuster trade two days before he decides to take a leave of absence due to depression and is considering early retirement  
LAND/WATER SPORTS  .  Staying for Summer? Clean, 2 bdrm  We're OPEN1!!  on staff.  This one goes out to all my boys in  
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS/  STAYING IN SOUTH BEND FOR  Turtle Creek townhouse available  THE COPY SHOP  Siegfried 4B.  
LAKE PLACID  THE SUMMER???  for sub-lease.Please call Colleen at  Lafortune Student Center  Hey. I hear they are celebrating  
VISIT US www.raq~ettelake.com  Lovely five-bedroom house avatl­ 243-9232  631-COPY  your holiday today. Since your last  Thence, because this is mechanics.  
1-800-786-8373  able tor sub-lease.  Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight  name is Green and all.  
About a mile from campus  516 BDRM HOMES. NEAR CAM­ Fri: 7:30am·7:00pm  Mike, you forgot to save the classi•  
Babysitter needed in my  Safe neighborhood. Clean Two air­ PUS. FURN. 272-655.1  Sat: Noon-8:00pm  Team Randy will be in full effect on  fieds in the right format. I thought  
home.Flexible day time hours.Call  conditioned rooms.  Sun: Noon-Midnight  Friday,  public humiliation would make you  
243-5540.  Washer and dryer, stove, refrige.  2 blks. from campus. 4-5 bdrm  remember this lesson.  
Call 634-0562 lor inlo,  home. fireplace. 10' ceilings  $6 HAIRCUTS  Garbage-can frisbee champi­ 
Part time on-campus promotional  $650/mo. available now.  Vito's Barbershop  onships will be held this Saturday,  Well. after the first four days of the  
position. www.2Clix.com, a start up  WALK TO SCHOOL  1523 Lincolnway West  tournament. I've already torn my  
web-Site for college students needs  2-6 BEDROOM  Closed Sun. and Wed.  Buttel and Broderick will help out  bracket into itty bitty pieces .. but at  
6 on-campus promoters to spread  STARTING $185  Mon,Tues,Thurs,Fri 8·4  Team Randy on Friday.  least I didn't pick Stanford to win it  
the word about our site. 10-15  MONTH/PERSON  
 Sat. B-3  all,  
hours a week,llexible,$8-$12/hr  232-2595  NEW Rates Phone Cards  Ali my favorite feet I hope you're  
promotional experience  282 mm. $20 call 258-4805  COUNTDOWN TO THE  still in one piece this morning.  But Kerry's in second place in her  
helpful.C011tact: Kevin Leavitt  NICE HOMES FOR NEXT  •• LEWIS CRUSH ••  pool! Darn good picking there!  
1 •B77 •2clixcom .e-mail to  SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND  Steel bookcase 7 shelves.  Call  23 DAYS  Jackie Lynn unfortuntely doesn't  Could you loan me some cash?  
kleaviu@2c1ix.com.  8,6,4,3,BEDROOM 2TT3097  246-1668  will YOU be invited?  know how to read, huh T?  Please?  

__________________________:_:__________________r____:_:<::.=__.:_:__
Thursd,1y, March 18, 1999 The Observer• PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 



.. 
,r 
page 18 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, March 18, 1999 
-------------------------------------··--------­
¦ NFL 
League owners vote to reinstate replay 
As~oci:ued Press 
PHOENIX 
Upon furtlwr and furthflr and further rPviPw. instant replay is bad. in the NFL for the 1999 season. 
The ll'ague·s O\\Ilt\l"S, who had killed rnµlay PYcry year for the last Sl'VPn. ovPrwhPlm­ingly approved a new system Wfldnesda.y that will give coaches two challenges por game, with "a replay assis­tant'' to determine if some­thing is to be reviewed in the final two minutes of each half. 
The reforne on thn finld will make the final decision. 
But unlike the svstem in effect from 198Ci-91, it's not intended to cover routine mis­takes. 
"We ure implementing this system to correct the major. major, big mistake," said Seattle coach Mike Holmgren, co-chairman of Urn -competi­tion committee, which came up with the plan. 
The actlon comes aftPr a season marked by several high-profile mistakes. It even led commissioner Paul Tagliabue to propose bringing it back for tho playoffs, a move that was turned down. 
Wednesday's vote was 28-3. the most overwhelming vote for replay since it first came up in 1986. The three "no" votes came from Cincinnati, the New York Jets and Arizona. while the New York Gianl'!, wbo had voted against it every year, were among tho "yes" votes. 
That was primarily the rea­son why replay wasn't put in for longer than one year. 
''There were several teams that were traditionallyagainst 
it that voted for it this time," said the other cochairman, Rich McKay of Tampa Bay, another team that was often against replay. "They wanted to see how it works for a year before we put it in for a longer period." 
Under the system to be used, coaches will have to act in the 40 seconds between the time a play ends and the ball is put back into play again to make tho challenge. All said they would rely on word from an. assistant upstairs. 
"That won't be a problem," Holmgren said. "We always get five voices at once shout­ing, 'Yell at someone.' " 
The referee on the field. will then review the play. If he turns down the challenge, the · team making it wilUose a time out. 1f he upholds the challenge, the team will retain the time out. 
In the final two minutes of 
A11ch half, the replay assistant -probably a retired official -will stop.the game if he sees a call that might be chal­lenged, and the same proce­dure will he followed. The replay assistant's challenge will extend into any overtime. 
That idea, which swayed the final votes to get over the total of 24 needed for approval. came from commissioner Paul Tagliabue. 
"The main thing the coaches objnctcd to was the last two minutes," Tagliabue said. 
So he proposed the system in which lhe last two minutrs of each half would be overseon by the replay assistant. 
He added that George Young, the league's vice presi­dent for football operations, then toId him that rnight break the logjam and get the votes. As general ma11a_ger of the Gianis and cochairman or the rompetition committee, Young had been replay's most steadfast opponent. 
Th~ cnarlres werfl over­
whelmingly for it. . 
"There will be a lot of strate­
gy for us to think about," §,aid 
Wade Phillips of Buffalo. one 
of the teams hurt most last 
season by calls that were later 
found to be incorrect. "We'll 
be doing a lot of studying. 
"It's not likely we're going to 
challenge something in the 
middle of the field in_ the sec­
ond quarter," Holmgren said. 
"If someone tells me our 
recejver was in on a 10-yard 
play on which he was ruled 
out in the second quarter, I'd 
probably let it go. Bllt if it's 
something that can get us 
points. then we'd challenge." 
Replay will be like the old 
system .:....... applicable to. goal­
¦ COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
UNLV faces NCAA violations 
Associ.itcd Press 
LAS VEGAS 
UKLV's basketball program is unrier investigation once again, this timn rcport('(lly for allega­tions that an assistant coach gave money to make c·ar pay­mPnts on behalf of fonner play­nr Tyrmw Nesby. 
It is UH\ latest problPrn for UNI.V coach Bill Bayuo. whose team is in disarray following a season that began with high exµeclalions but Pndpd with a first-round loss in the NIT. 
Three playnrs said this week tlmy are planning to leave the uiam and transl'Pr to other schools. a11d the fourth-year coach has bcrnn bombarded with critieism from fans who blame tlw coach for tlw team's lacklusll\r season. 
NCM investigators were on campus this WBek to condut:t an informal rnview of alleg11­tions that associate head coach Glynn Cyprien gave a former student manager money to make car payments on Nosby's behalf. 
13ayno said Im was cnnfirient there had been no wrongdoing in his program. 
"I know for a fart I have done nothing wrong to recruit the kids in my program," Bayno said. ''I've always abided by the rules. I will cooperate fully with the NCAA and I'm confident that everything will be !inn." 
Mike Viellion, an internation­al business major who once was a student manager for the basketball team. also said Cypricn loaned Viellion·s 1995 Ford Thunderbird without his permission during the summer to anotlrnr player, Kaspars Karnbala, and that Kambala subsequently was involved in an accident that totaled the car. 
Viellion said that four times 
during the 1997-98 basketball 
season, Cyprien gave him 

line and sideline plays and possession, but not to penal­ties. ­
The league also put off a decision on the $800 million sale of the Washington Redskins to .Howard and Edward MilSHJin arid uniil early April. Tagliabue said there weren't enough votes to approve the $ale. 
The only other rule change was on clipping near the line of scrimmage/which now will apply all over the field. rn the past, clipping was legal in a small .area between the tack­les near .theJine ofscrim· mage. 
The owners also formally took. &way the 2003 Super Bowl from San Francisco and invited San Diego, south Florida and other locations to 
submithids. 
That game could be the first Super Bowl played in Febru11ry, 
money out of his ·own pocket. Viellion said Im was instructml to take tlw money to a car-leas­ing agency, which he dPclinml to name, and make payments for Nesby, who is now an NBA rookie playing for the Los Angeles Clippers. Viellion said ho could not recall tlrn exact amount, but it was betw1rnn $300 and $400. 
Viellion also said he was a go-between for Bayno and Nesby in picking up loarwr cars Bayno had arranged for Nesby when the playpr's car was out of commission. 
A university is forbiddnn under NCAA ruins l'rom provid­ing a lwnnfit for a student-ath­lete that it would not providP for <Wnry other student. 
"The 'truth will comn out," Bayno said. "He's trying to blow up the program and I don't know why." 
ARE YOU TIRED OF LIVING LIKE THIS? 

Our Floorplans are spacious, with the privacy and solitude that dorm life can't offer. Only minutes from campus, you'll feel light years away when you leave the stress of exams and studying behind. 
Call today about our Priority Waiting List Program to reserve your apartment for fall. Don't wait and be left out in the cold! 
Willia1ns burg

~;lrt!Jeriilte-... 

EQUAL HOUSING
256-0237 
OPPORTUNITY 

-... 
r-----------------------------------­
Thms<lay, March 18, I 998 The Observer. PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
Calendar of Events 
Freshman Retreat #22 (March 26-27) Sign-up Continuing through week of March 15 
103 Hesburgh Library, 112 Badin Hall or see your rector. 
Freshman Retreat #23 (April 9-10) Sign-up 
Beginning Monday, March 15, 103 Hesburgh Library, 112 Badin Hall or see your rector. 
Marriage Preparation Retreat 
Friday-Saturday, March 19-20, Fatima Retreat Center 
El Retiro Retreat 
Friday-Sunday, March 19-21, Sunset Lodge in Glenn, Michigan 
No Greater Love . Saturday, March 20, 10:30 am~ 
5:30 pm, South Dining Hall. A Notre Dame day of prayer, music, and renewal. A spirit-filled gathering for students led by Fr. Michael Baxter, 
C.S.C. and Nationally-renowned musi­cian Dan Consiglio. Students will also be able to choose from serveral breakout sessions led by dynamic speakers from around the Notre Dame community to learn more about different aspects of their faith. 
Notre Dame Encounter Team Retreat #56 
Sunday, March 21, St. Joe Hall 
Rejoice! Black Catholic Mass 
Sunday, March 21, ~0:30 am, St. Ausustine's Catholic Church 
FIFTH SUNDAY OF LENT 
Weekend Presiders at the Basilica of theSacred Heart Saturday, March 20 Mass 
5:00 p.m. Rev. John H. Pearson, C.S.C. 
Sunday, March 21 
10:00 a.m. Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. Peter D. Rocca, C.S.C. 
Sunday Lenten Vespers 
7:15 p.m. Rev. James K. Foster, C.S.C. 
Scripture Readings 
1st Reading  Ezekiel  37:12-14  
2nd Reading  Romans  8:8-11  
Gospel  John  11:1-45  

It's NotToo Late! 
Jim Lies, C.S.C. 
Listen, gang, it's not foo late. It's not too late for all of us to make something of Lent. It's not too late for you First Year students out there to meet new people. It's not too late for you Sophomores and Juniors out there to find new and cre­ative ways to party. It's not too late for you Seniors out there to make something of your remaining days, and to maximize that which you take away from this place. It's not too late for all of us to make more of our efforts in faith and in prayer. Liste~, it's not too late; but it will be if we don't choose to do something about it now. 
I will say it simply: if you leave the University of Notre Dame without addressing some of the basic questions of faith, then we, as a university and as mentors and guides, will have failed; but, as importantly, you will have too. Whether you came here because Notre Dame is a Catholic university, is not the point. The-fact is, it is, and if you do not learn something more about the Catholic faith while you are here, whether you are Catholic or not, then there's something wrong. The thought that there are those who make no effort to move from the faith of your parents to an adult and personal relationship with God, is perhaps the saddest reality that we face. But it's not too late. 
I find myself wanting to say that if you're only going to Mass on Sunday because you know your parents expect you to, then think about that. And if you're not going to Mass on Sunday because your parents aren't here to tell you that you have to, then think about that, too. The fact is, the time in life has come for you to make your own choices and to make sense of your own faith. But these choices cannot be made only in response to your parents, whether in the affirmative or the negative. Ultimately, they must be made in response to God, and to the stirrings of the Spirit in your life and in your relationships. And if it's the case that you have no idea what that means, or what God might be saying to you, then maybe it's because you haven't stopped to listen, or even learned to lis­ten. But it's not too late. 
There are any number of ways to be about the business of learning more about our faith and deepening in our relationship with God. One of them is coming our way this Saturday on our campus. You've seen the posters and you've heard the spin, but in the end, you can only measure the merits of it by being there. "No Greater Love" is, at rock bottom, about our Lord Jesus Christ; and about the opportunity that each of us has to be in relationship to him. "No Greater Love" is an opportunity to gather to pray with others who long also to deepen in faith, but also to learn about different aspects of the faith which we profess. 
The events of the day take place in the South Dining Hall. They begin at 10:30 
a.m. with registration (but you have the option of signing up early via e-mail at ND.ministry.1@nd.edu). Things get kicked off at 11:00 a.m. with Fr. Cyprian Consiglio, O.S.B. Cam. leading us in song and prayer, and Fr. Michael Baxter, 
C.S.C. preaching the Good News. Break-out sessions follow at Noon where you can choose from several local presenters on a variety of topics related to our faith. It's the perfect opportunity to learn and ask questions about many of the things that you've always wondered about. Lunch is served at 1 :00 p.m. where you can dine and socialize to the acoustic music of our own Justin Dunn and others. The afternoon offers more break-out sessions and concludes with a rous­ing celebration of the Eucharist at 4:30 p.m. During the day, for those of you who wish to partake, there is the option of participating in the Stations of the Cross, the sacrament of reconciliation, Eucharistic adoration, and praying the rosary. You are welcome to participate in any or all of the events of the day. 
I know what you're thinking: "I don't have time for all of that!" Let me assure you that you don't have enough time not to! Life is slipping by. Notre Dame, even for the youngest among you, is slipping away (Just ask the Seniors!). Let's get at the questions that real1y matter. You know full well that you will waste all kinds of time this weekend. Waste it with us! I marvel at how much time we spend in idle, even trite, conversation, or in front of a video game, or perched in front of a television, or drinking, simply· drinking. Rarely in those settings do we get at the stuff that matters, the stuff of life, the stuff of faith, the heart of God. It's not too late. Come join us and meet others who share your questions and who share your f~ith. It's not too late to make something of Lent. It's not too late to take ownership of our faith. It's not too late to know that there is no greater love than that of our God for us. But in the end, it's up to you. Take the time; make the time! Lt's not too late( 
-
l¦I 
(Z\MPUSMINISTRY 
page 20 The Observer• SPORTS Thursday, March 18, 1999 
¦ OLYMPICS 
Six IOC 01e1Dbers expelled as Olyinpic scandal widens 
A!isociated Press 
LAUSANNE, Switzerland 
One by one, the six accused International Olympic Committee membnrs filed into a conference hall Wednesday and pleaded their casf~ beforr their peers. 
Some 90 minules later, in \1 hat ddegates described as a "painful and harrowing" exer­cisl'. all six were expelled. 
Tlw IOC completed an unprecedented purge of its own ranks. but backed president Juan Antonio Samarancb with an overwhelming vote of confi­dence and two rousing ovations during a special session wrought by the worst scandal in its 1OS-year history. 
Despite the support, Samaranch hinted that he might leave office before the end of his term in 2001. 
A total of 10 members have been banished or have resigned after being linked to $1.2 mil­lion in cash payments and other vote-buying inducements from Salt Lake City's winning bid for the 2002 Wintnr Games. Ten others have been censured or warned about their actions. 
Olympic leaders said the expulsions marked a major turn in restoring the agency's credi­bility and the luster of the five rings. 
But a leading U.S. congres­sional critic: wasn't completely satisfied. 
"Expelling members does nothing .to address the utter lack of transparency and accountability in IOC process­es," said Sen. John McCain. R­Ariz. "What we must see are concrete reforins." 
With corporate sponsors also demanding reforms, Samaranch and his deputies said the house-cleaning was just the beginning and that the IOC would carry out long-term changes. 
"We're nearing the end of the beginning," said IOC vice presi­dent Dick Pound, echoing Winston Churchill. "We have a fair amount of work ahead of us. This was a good start. Without having done it, it would have been hard to move for­ward." 
On Thursday, the WC is expected to appoint an indepcn­drmt ethics commission, change the selection process for the 2006 Winter Games and set up 
a  special  reform  panel  - 
including  outside experts  - to  
study structural changes.  

"From the outset we have been telling the roe to go deep and go wide in their investiga­tions and it appears they are now doing that." said John LaBella, a spokesman for Kodak, Oil(~ of the Olympic sponsors. 
The six expelled members were Agustin Arroyo of Ecuador, Zein El Abdin Gadir of Sudan, Jean-Claude Ganga of' the llepublic of Congo, Lamine Keita of Mali. Sergio Santander of Chile and Paul Wallwork of Samoa. 
Several claimed they were scapegoats. 
"l am the proverbial sacrificial lamb," Wallwork said. "Perhaps I was led to the slaughter­house." 
"I do believe tbo public and the press wanted to have heads knocked down," Arroyo said. "Mine happens to be in the way." 
Santander said, "It happened as a purely political act. It prob­ably occurred because Chi!~ was such a small country." 
Jean-Claude Ganga, the African Olympic official who had threatened to go down lighting, offered an unexpect­edly muted reaction. 
"We accept this decision with sporting good will -good win­ners, good losers," he said. 
The six were ousted in secret ballots from 90 eligible voting members. None came close to the minimum 30 votes needed to avoid expulsion. 
The vote counts were 72-16 against Arroyo, 86-4 against Gadir, 88-2 against Ganga, 72­16 against Keita, 76-12 against Santander and 67-19 against Wallwork. 
yong, the highest-ranking offi­cial implicatAd in the scandal. 
Kim's case remains open. Investigators say he could still face expulsion if evidence is found to prove he knew that Salt Lake bidders subsidized his son's salary at a telecommuni­cations company. 
The session began with Samaranch declaring that the IOC needed to be swift and deci­sive in dealing with a crisis that "has nearly destroyed the repu­tation and credibility of all its members and Lhe organization itself." 
"It is our IOC which is now on trial," he said. "The first step we must take is to dean our house. 
All that we have achieved is in great danger -and you must all bfl aware of this fact." 
While Samaranch said he wanted to lead the IOC through rnforms, the 78-year-old Spaniard gave perhaps his clearest signal yet that he might not finish his term, scheduled to conclude late in 2001. 
"My last service to Olympism would be to restructure our organization in order to enter the new millennium stronger than ever," he said. 
Earlier, speaking to reporters, Samaranch said, "My idea is to remain until 2001, but we will see." 
After receiving two ovations from the delegates, Samaranch -who has faced numerous calls for his resignation from outsido tho IOC -put his lead­ership to a vote of conlidence. 
In a surprise move, instead of a vote by acclamation. Samaranch asked for a secret ballot. 
The result was 86-2; with one blank ballot and one not rnturned. 
Samarand1, who had lcrt the room for the vote, returned to tho hall to a standing ovation. 
Thon the mcmbors turned to the traumatic task of throwing out tlrnir own colleaguos. 
"It's difficult looking at a per­son and saying, 'No longer will you be among us,"' American IOC vice president Anita DeFrantz said. 
Judicial Council 
Applications Available For '99-'00 Positions 
Vice President of Advocacy 
AND 
Vice President of Elections 
Beginning March 4, 1999 Student Government Office 
Applications  Due  March  17  
Interviews  Start March  16  
Questions?  

Call Kelly Folks, President or Nicole Borda, Vice President of Elections at 631-4556 
brought to you 

GET IN THE 
THICK 
OF IT. 

Conveniently located in rhe heart of downtown South Bend, Old Chicago Steakhouse has the hottest grill in rnwn. 

222 S MICIJIGAN•SOUTII 8EN0•(2I9) 2.14-5200 

Class of 1999 
Only 
Thursdays 


and lots of
99~(over 
other stuff
-with college I.D. ~ 
must be 21 
for99¢ 
2 2 2 S. Michigan South Bend • (219) 234•5200 Call the Heartland Concert &Event Line (219) 251-2568 
www.ACEplaces.com/heartland 
-

fZOGi\:  CUGA  ANNABELLA  
W!LLl,\MS  GOODING, JR. SC!O!<.RA  
WHAT  

D~AMSMAY 
AFTrn. LIFE 
GOME 
THER.E Is Mo1u. 

r--------..----------------------,---------------~-------------------------------­
Thursday, March 18, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 21 
¦ TRACK AND FIELD 
Five earn All-America honors 
Special 10 1hr Oluen-cr 
Nolrfl Dame's men's an<l wonrnn's track and finlrl t<mms complclnd anotlrnr succossf'ul indoor track and /fold s1.mson as thny wrapp11d 11p the S<'ason at t.1}(1 11)91) NC/\/\ Indoor Track and i:i(\ld ch am pionships on Mart'h !i-h. 
Fiv1\ mnmlwrs ol' tho Nolni Damn truck trnun wcrn nanwrt AII-Am<'rirnns by llrn Unitnd Stat1•s Track Coaclws Assodalion. lmsPd on tlwir pnr­f'ormuncns in lhn I 91)9 NCAA Indoor Track and Finld Championships. First-timn hon­onH'S ind11d1id junior .loAnna Dc!'lnr of Chm 1:llyn. Ill., snnior Mik<' Brown of Hancho Santa Fl', Calif., sl'nior Antonio i\1·rn of 1'11l111d11l1•. Calil', and junior Marslrnun W1·.st of' Sikf'ston, Mo.. whili• junior .ln1111i1'1•r 1•:11g!·lhardt of BattlP Cn•f'k. 
Mich., became the first Irish women's track and field athlete to earn AII-Amurica honors twic1i. 
Engdhardt linh,hcd 13th tbis year with a l<Jap of' 5-8, whilu slw finislrnd ninth as a fresh­man wilh u jump of' 5-8 '1/2. Deeter also madr. history as sllfl b(wamc the first Notre Damn womnn's athlntn ovHr to earn both cross country and track and fidd /\11-/\mcrica honors. 
D11eter's Omo of Hi:10.Hi i11 tlrn 5,000 metnrs d1~stroy~d llw Nolrc Dame record of 16:22.(i4, which shn s<lt earliHr this vear at tho Big East Championships. Brown. a tbrcn-tinrn Big East cham11ion in the pole vault and competing in his first NCAA Clrnmpionships, tind for sixth plac1• in llw pole vault with his Nolrn Dame rncord vault of 17­IO 1/2. Brnwn's vault brokn tlrn rornrd of' 17-fi I/'!. hn had set just tho weekend before at the Alex Wilson Invitational. Arce placed tenlh in the mile with his time of 4:13.:32 afler running 
4:04.14 in his hoat, and West finished soventh in the long jump with a leap of 24-11 1/2. Freshman Liz Grow of' New Braunfols, ·Tex.. alsu competed in thn championships, linishing 17th (56.85) but foiling to quali­fy for the finals in the 400 meters as she ran to a time of 5(,.85. 
Thi• five indoor All-Americans arc the most by the Irish since 1997. whnn sevon Notre Dame athletes narnnd that honor indoors -Jeff llojuacki, Danny Payton, Jason Hnxing and Derek Seiling in tlrn distance nwdley relay (oighth place), Allen Hossum in the ;i!i mcfors {sov1mlh), Dominquo Calloway in tlw 55-nwter lrnrdlns 11 I th) and Eng,•lhardt in the high 
!Please Recycle The Observer.I 

A great-tasting deal that's easy to get hooked on. 
The delicious BK BIG FISH, Value Meal. A crispy fish filet topped with fresh lettuce and tangy tartar sauce plus medium fries and medium drink. 
$3.59 
The Muddle -LaFortune Student Center 
BURGER 
KING 
•
Itjust tastes better. 
©1998 BurQer K1no Corporation. Buroer Kinu Corporal1on is the eKclusive licensee of the registered BK BIG FISH and Bun Halves logo trademarks. 
¦ BOXING 

Associated Press 
ALBANY. N.Y. 
A grand jury is investigating lhe disputed draw in the heavy­weight title fight between Lennox Lewis and Evander Ilolyfield. 
The panel will issue subpoe­nas and hear testimony about the judging of Saturday night's bout at Madison Square Garden. a spokeswoman for Manhattan District Attorney Robert Morgenthau said Wednesday. 
Spokeswoman Barbara Thompson declined to discuss what illogalities, if any, Morgenthau thinks could pn involved. 
One source close lo the inves­tigation, who asked not lo be idenlified, said: "We could be looking at tampering or ilkgal payments. Then again, maybe we're looking at lousy judging. which is not a crime." 
State Attorney General Eliot Spitzer will offer Morgenthau's invPstigators "any and all assis­tance in their attempt to pursue a criminal casP," Spitznr spokesman Darren Dopp said. 
Spitzer, who worked for Morgenthau for six years. can­celed a public hearing for Friday involving many of the principals in the light Lnwis was widely believed Lo have won. 
Among those who had bt1en sd1l'dulcd to attend wern pro­moter Don King and jurlgn Eugenia Williams, the IBF jtidgc who had llolyfi<lld winning. 
llolylield is tho !BF and WB/\ heavyweight champion. Lewis of Britain holds the WBC title. 
Another hearing. sclrndulnd for Thursday in Manhattan by tlrn statn Senato Committcw on Investigations, will go forward, according to its chairman, statn Sen. Hoy Goodman of Manhattan. 
Among thosn to appcm· arci King and Dino Duva, Lewis' American promotnr; Bob LPe. the !BF pn•sident; ArLlrnr Mercante Jr., Uw bout's rnforoc; and Williams. 
Testil'ying_by phone will b11 Larry O'Connnll ni' F11gla11cl, tlrn WBC judge who scowd the light a druw: Stanley Christodoulou of South Africa, the WBA judge who declared Lewis the winner; and WBC presid1rnt .Josn Sulaiman. 
Goodman said his hearing will focus on the judging of Saturday's light, the relation­ships between thn sanctioning bodies and the boxing industry and health issues involving fighters. 
"We'll really be taking a heli­copter trip over all of the ter­rain of big-limn boxing and whether there were impropri­eties in this fight," Goodman said. 
The New York State Athletic Commission is also investigating the light. 
U.S. Sen. John McCain of Arizona. who sat ringside at tlm bout, said W1~dnesday that state athletic commissions must take th<' lead in reforming profes­sional boxing and not wait for the frderal governnrnnt to step in. 
Ile addnd that meaningful nationwide rnforms might result from the dispute surrounding tlrn bout and Urn !'our investiga­tions it has prompted. 
For a start. hn said, state ath­lntic commissions should appoint all ringside ol1icials at bouts and not give international sanctioning bodies the opportu­nity to placn potentially biased judges at a fight. 
"Stall! commissioners should not s u rrtHHl er any of' th cir authority to sanctioning organi­zations or promotnrs," Md:ain said in a lettnr to Spitzer. "Wlrnn tlwv do, boxl"rs am sub­jeel to m1inipulation and tlw public is dwalPd." 
-
McCain has b111rn workiug with a task f'or!'P of' state attor­nnys general. hnadnd by Spitwr, lo dewlop foderal legislation to rPform boxing that has hnen namnd of Muhammad Ali. 
McCain said boxing is ril'e with "conllicl.s of' inll:nisl and fraudulent pra<:ticns" that 1:011­tributnd to llrn l.nwis-l lolvfiPld draw. · 
"Tlw lwst 011tro111P of till' 
llolylidd-Lmvis bout would lw a 
romplnte ovorhaul of' boxing 
industry abus1is in Anrnrica," 111' 
said. · 
r-r~---·-------.... -•-· --•· -~---w••-----------..... 
page 22 
Thursday, March 18, 1999 
¦ BASEBALL 
... 
Heilman and Irish capture title 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame baseball team has produced two Big East conference weekly award winners, following a successful spring break trip during which Notrn Dame won their its final five games and claimed thc championship of the Irish Baseball Classic held at Wolff Stadium in San Antonio, 
Texas. 
Notre Dame sophomore righthander Aaron lleilman of Logansport, Ind., was named tlrn Big East co-pitclrnr of the week, joining West Virginia senior lefthander Lewis Hoss who will face the Irish this weekend in the Big East open­ing series for both teams. Irish freshman centerfielder Steve Stanley of Upper Arlington, Ohio, and Providence fresh­man shortstop Jaime Athas shared the Rig East Rookie of the \Yeck award. 
Heilman was named MVP of the Irish Baseball Classic. after posting his first career com­plete game in a 5-4 win over f:reighton that clinched a spot in the championship game for the Irish. Heilman, making just his fourth career start, racked up a career-best 11 strikeouts versus the Bluejays while allowing six hits, one walk and three earned runs. He faced 36 batters, with 14 groundouts and just two flyouts. 
Fur the entire 1999 season, Heilman has made rive appearances (three starts) while posting a 2-1 rer.orrl, one save and a 3.28 ERA. His sea­son totals include 25 strike­outs, 21 hits and seven walks allowed in 24.2 innings. with four wild pitches, one hit-bat­ter and a .219 opponent bat­Ling average. 
Stanley ignited the offense in the Irish Raseball Classic from his leadoff spot, pacing the squad with a .444 batting average (8-for-18), seven runs scored and four stolen-bases, plus four walks, just one strikeout and no errors while base in the lBC title game win over Creighton (5-3). 
For the season, Stanley has bounced back from an 0-for-17 start over the first fiv•~ games by hitting .410 in the current 8-2 run, raising his season average to .286 (16-for-56). The speedy lefihande r is Lied for second on the team with 11 · runs scorl'd while lnading the squad with six stolen bases in eight attempts. His ot11er sea­son statistics include eight RBI, one double, six walks, nine strikeouts, one hit-by-pitch, three sacrifice flips, two sacri­fice bunts and one error in 30 chances. 
The Observer/Jeff Hsu Deep in the heart of Texas, Junior outfielder Jeff Felker and the Irish baseball team improved their winning streak to five games. 
making several tough catches in center field. Stanley hil 6-for-12 with runners on base and reached on 6-of-7 loadoff at-bats during the wnek. He opened the !BC with one hit, two walks, two runs scornd and two stolen bases in a 6-3 win over Penn State before going 2-for-2 with two walks, a sacrifice bunt and a run scored in the pivotal 5-4 come­back victorv over Creighton. Stanley wrapped up the week with a hit, run scored and scored and stolen 
THE NORTHERN INDIANA REGIONAL SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING 
@ J~AIR &) 
'fHANKS 
THE FACULTY 1vIEMBERS AND STUDENTS WHO HAVE VOLUNTEERED TO BE JUDGES, 
AND REMINDS THEM 
TO BE AT STEP AN CENTER THIS 
SATURDAY l\1ARCH 20 AT 8:45 AM. 
AND RECEIVE THEIR JUDGING ASSIGNMENTS 
Students With Valid I.D. Pay Only $4.00!
-

.......,._____.....,____....,._._..._.....,_______,,,_ __________ 
Thur~day, March 18, I 999 The Observer. PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 23 

Monday, March 22, 1999  
7:30 p.m.  
Hesburgh Center Auditorium  
Hesburgh Center for International Studies r.  
SPONSORED BY: THE STANDING COMMITTEE oN GAY AND LESBIAN STUDENT NEEDS  Public Reception to follow in the Great Hall of the Hesburgh CentePeter Liuzzi, O.Carm. was ordained a Carmelite priest in 1965. He holds an M.A. in religio~s education from Loyola University, Chicago. Along with his work as teacher and campus minister, Father Liuzzi r1as spent more than 20 years in gay and lesbian "In you God's love ministry. Currently he is director of is revealed." Ministryw,itl:'1 Lesbian and Gay Catholics Always Our Children, in the Archdiocese of Los Angeles. A Statement of the Bishops' Committee on Marriage and Family, National Conference of Catholic Bishops  

.. 


page 24 The Observer• SPORTS Thursday, March 18, l '.)99 
¦ MEN'S TENNIS 
¦ WOMEN•s LACROSSE 
Notre Dame shines against Mi,1mi 
Irish slay Knights 

By NATHANIEL DeNICOLA 
SplH·rs \\;.' rirl•r 
l.ikt> munv Notre Dame stu­d('nts, tlH' Notre Dame men's h'nnis team Pnjoyed its f'irst rrccnt cxposun' to sunshine last W(Wk. 
Tho 2(,th-rankPd Irish shinned in tlwir 11rst outdoor match of tlw yPar. c[pfpating 43rd-rankecl i\liami on their home court. The 5-2 victory over the Hurricanes mark<'d tlw sixth-consecutive win for the Irish. their longest streak of the season. 
Continuing their dominance at No. I doubles. the tandem of' junior All-American Ryan Sachire and senior captain Brian Patterson easily downed Miami's Tarik El Bassouni and Halph Ililt 8-2. 
Coi11plimcnting the victory at No. l doubles, the freshman combo of Javirn· Taborga and Aaron Talarico sealed the dou­bles point by achiPving a 8-6 win over llurricanes Liebennau and Johan Lindquist at No. 3 doubles. 
Taborga added to an impres­sive outing by emerging victori­ous in his dual-match singles debut as well. beating Joel Berman 7-5, 6-4. 
The Irish continued on to cap­ture four of' tlw singles points. with Matt Daly clinching the win with a 6-4. 6-2 victorv over '.\1ark ,\rrowsmith at No." 3 sin­gles. 
Accounting for th«:' other sin­gles wins were No. 2-ranked Sachire (6-3, 6-3 uver Jamin Thompson at No.1) and Patterson. who overcame a first-set slide to win 6-7 (8), 6-1, 6-1 over Lindquist. 
Iiaving faced Miami in the Big East championship title match for the last three years. the vic­tory is hopefully prophetic for the Irish as thr,y begin the homestretch towards th0-play­offs. Miami won the Big East championship in Miami in 1997 and 1998, while the Irish won in 1996. 
Today, the Irish travel to Montgomery, Ala.. where they will attempt to avenge their sec-
to stay unbeaten 
By GENE BRTALIK Sports Writer 
Wednesday must have 
seemed Jiko deja-vu for the 
Golden Knights of Gannon. 
The No. 2-ranked women's lacrosse team in Division II could not avenge their 1998 20-10 loss to the Fighting Irish (3-0). Instead, Gannon (l-1) lost by the exact same score. 
While an. 1-0 Golden Knights lead just 1:40 min­u.res into the game made the Irish goal of establislling an e~rly foad seem impossiblo, senior captain Kerry Callahan tied the score less than two minutes later and spark1id a 4~0 Irish nm. 
Gannon pulled within two goals at the 12:43-minute mark with a score of 5-:-3, but Notre Dame responded with five straight goals, three by sophomore Courtney Calabrest\. The teams then traded goals unti.l half-time with the frish posting a 12-6 advantage. 
ond place finish for the last two 
Like in their previous two years at the Blue-Gray National 
garnflS, the team applied Classic. 
defensive to secure the victo­
In 1998, the Irish lo:;t a heart­ry. After Stacey Heynolds breaker to Boise State, 4-3, and scored at 1:11 of the first 
in the 1997 South ,c\Jabama quenched Notre Dame's title hopes with a 4-2 victory. 
On March 27, the Irish return 
Got something to say?home to race No. :'.-ranked Illinois, clearly tlrn most chal­lenging match of the r heavily 
Use Observer Classifieds 
laden schedule. 
half, no Gannon shots got past goalie Carrie \1arshall until there was a little over eight minutes remaining. 13y that time, Notre Dame had built a commanding lg_7 lead with five diffMcnt players scoring, including Katherine Scarola with her first career goal. 
The Golden Knights tried to mount a comeback with three more goals in the remaining time, but Calabrese stopped them with her sixth goal of the game at the 13-second mark. 
While Calabrese led the team with 6 goals, Lael O'Shaugbncsscy scored 5 goals in one gam11 for the third time this vear Also chipping in was Callahan who had three goals and six assists. The Irish scored on 20 of their 28 shots, picked up 2:1 groundballs to Gannon's one. and controlled 19 of the 22 draws. 
The team built its lead and maintained it for almost 60 minutes. 
Notre Dame will take on 
· Syracuse next Tuesday and try to get back at a team that beat thorn by 11 at home last year. 
.. 
INTII S 
Name Brand Items from: Champion~ adidas ~ JanSport ~ Gear for Sports~ MV Jackets/Sweatshirts/T-~;hirts/Polos/Shorts 

Located In The Old Hammes Bookstore Building March 18th~ 20th Thursd~Ly/Friday 9am-6pm Saturday 9a11n -5pm For Information C:111 631-6316 

r---------------~-------------·· 
ThursJay, March 18, 1999 The Observer •SPORTS 
lrnr first NCAA championship Cincinnati's i\ngin Trostel who appnarancn in tho 500-and tallied 510.95 points.
Irish --­
200-yard nvents. Saturday's one-meter com­Divnr Mattingly qualilied for /.rnlition saw Mattingly earn
continued from page 28 
both tho one-and thrno-mntnr third place with 398 points, ,l11i.0111alically qualil'ind 400 springboard nvnnts at last placing behind Quinn (413.30) nwdli:y lnam. wnnkl!nd's Zone C diving and Trostnl (398.05). • 
Th r o u g h llrn re I a y , K c II y mnnt. Irish teammatns Ketelhohn I )Peking also narnml a spol in ll11r score of 484.9:i on tlrn and .Johnstone placed 15th holh hackstrokP tWPllls. thrnn-nrntcr was good for sec­and 28th, respectively, on the 
In lhP f'riH!slvln ov1i11ts, ond place, heating Indiana's one-meter board and I 1th KristPn Van Sau·n will makn Erin Quinn bul falling lo and 32nd on the three-metor. 
NEED AJOB for the 1999-2000 academic year? 
Student Activities is now accepting applications for all areas: 
LaFortune Building Managers Stepan Center Managers Ballroom Monitors Office Assistants 
Set Up Crew 
Information Desk Attendants Sound Technicians ND Express Shipping Attendants 
Applications avaiIable at 315 LaFortune. Deadline for applying is Thursday, April 1. For more information, call 631-7308. 

Ji,_~
~--,. 
-
The Observer/Kevin Dalum 
The Notre Dame hockey team had its share of upsets during the regu­lar season, including a win over top-ranked North Dakota. 
Office of lnfotmgtion Technologies 
Student Employment 
Summer 1999 1999/2000 Academic Year 
The OIT is accepting new applications for student employment for Summer 1999 and the 1999/2000 academic year for the following computer support areas: 
• Resident Computer Consultants (RCCs) Work up to 6 hours per week 
RCCs help students connect to the network from their dorm room and answer questions about network software. For more information regarding responsibilities, visit hHp://www.nd.edu/ ~rccs/RCC_Handbook_ 1998.html/ 
• Cluster Consultants 
Minimum of 8 hours per week 
Consultants answer questions regarding the hardware and software in the computer clusters. For additional information, visit http://www.nd.edu/~cluscons/ 
Your student online application may be submitted at: 
www.nd.edu/...ndoit/employ 
Insight 
continued from page 28 
mon opponents, head-to-head competition, record versus other teams at .500 or better and record in the last 16 games played. 
For each of the last two sea­sons, the 12 teams atop the Pairwise Bankings have quali­fied for the NCAA tournament. although that will probably not be the case this year, since Quinnipiac (a MMC school) is currently 10th in -the rankings. 
In actuality. the Pairwise 
Hankings do not necessarily 
detcrminn who qualifies; 
national polls and power rank­
ings such as the RPI can also be 
used to decide who receives the 
at-large bids. 
This season, the CCHA has 
been arguably the strongest 
conference in the nation, 
rivaled closely by Hockey East. 
With New Hampshire, Maine 
and Boston College as its top 
thrne, Hockey East is probably 
stronger at the top. 1lowever, 
with teams like Ferris Stain and 
Bowling Green in sixth and sev­
enth places, respectively, the 
CCHA is stronger altogether. 
So, of the 12 bids. the three 
Hockey East. teams previously 
mentioned should be locks for 
the tournament, as should the 
top three CCHA teams ­
Michigan State, Michigan and 
Ohio State. 
The WCHA, while boasting of . the nation's best team in North Dakota, is simply not as strong as f Jockey East or the CCI IA from top to bottom. Wisconsin, who came in fourth place in the regular season, is actually below .500 for the season; hence, the WCHA should mceivc just three bids !North Dakota, Colorado College and Denver). 
Lik<Jwisc. the ECAC only has one or two bonalidt• tourna­ment ttmms. Clarkson, who won tlrn conl't•n1nce 's regular season Litle, has been rankrid in the top 10 nil season and will get an automatic bid. St. Lawrence lin­ishnd second in the cunf'iwnncc and 1Otl1 in the µoils and is prn, ·, bly the only other team in the b.AC worthv of'Hin NCAA tournanwnt. despite losses to Niagara. Mass-Lowell at'1d Boston Univnrsily out-ol'-confor­
ence. 
So llw question rnmains as to which r.onforencn should g!'t the nxtra bid. Fighting for llrn last at-large bid will bn Notre Dame, Northern Michigan. Hensselanr and pc,rhaps Providence. 
Of those four teams, Notrn Dame has the highest HP!, which is nssentially a mPasurn of strength of schedule. Hcnsselaer has not been ranked in the top 10 all season and has no major out-of-conference wins to speak of. Providence has not been ranknd eithnr, and its only decent win out-of-con­ference came against Princeton, a tnam that was ranked for part of' the season and has faded down the strntch. 
The stiffest competition l'or the final at-large bid will comn 
l'rom the Wildcats of Northern 
Michigan, who dnfeated the 
Irish two out of thrnn games in 
the first round of I.he CCI IA 
tournament on .Joycn Center 
ice. The season series between 
the two schools is even at 2-2-2, 
although five of the six games 
took place at the .Joyce Center. 
As the HP! numbnrs dictate, 
Notre Dame has morn quality 
wins than Northern, including a 
win .Jan. 3, at top-ranked North 
Dakota. Other out-of-confor­
<mce games ol' note for Notrn 
Dame include a snason operrnr 
win at Wisconsin and a tie at 
then No. l Boston College. 
However, to the Wildcats' 
crtidit, they do have two big 
out-ol'-conl'ernnce wins to speak 
of. both of which camn on tho 
road against Clarkson. Of 
course. the fact that Northern 
beat Notre Damn in the playoffs 
should weigh heavily. But Notre 
Dame did finish ahf'ad of NMU 
in the regular season standings. 
Also, Notrn Damn was ranked 
in the nation's top 10 for 17 
consecutive w11nks and 18 
weeks in all, and Northern has 
not heen ranked since 1!arly in 
thn year. 
For Notrn Dame to make its first NCA/\ appearnnce in school hii,;tory, Dave Poulin and his team have to hopn for a coupln or things to happnn. 
One: Mirhigan Stale has lo bt!at Northern Mid1igan at .lrn· Louis Arona on Friday night. II' that happens. NMU should fall bd1ind Urn Irish in thn l'airwisn llankings as wdl as fall l'urllwr bd1ind in tho Hl'I. . 
Two: Tim Irish cannot afford any nu~jor upsets in tlrn rnnl'Pr­cnce tournanwnts, which would rosult in tlw last al-large hid .,.. becoming an automatic bid l'or a tParn that ollwrwisP would not. qualify l'or the tournampnt. 
If' tlwsc two things happt'n, Notl'I! Dame should Plld up gPt­ting that last aL-largP tourna­nwnt bid. and it will almost cPr­tainly lw in the 1•:ast region as tlw sixth-snndPd team. 
page 26 The Observer• SPORTS Thursday, March 18, 1999 
Fencing 
continued from page 28 
ter than we are. In women's epee we are equal but in women's foil we are better. It all comes down to how we fence in these days." 
The women's foil team has the most NCAA experience of all tlrn Irish squads. Walsh is a three-time first team All­.,\merirnn who finished second her freshman and sophomore years and third last year. Brown has been a second team All-American her first three years at Notre Dame. 
Both fencers trained over spring break in New York with Columbia fencers Susan Jennings and Erin Smart. 
Jennings and Smart finished fourth and second, respectively at last year's championships. They, along with Monique de Bruin of Stanford and Yelena Kalkina of Ohio State. will pose the stiffest challenge lo Brown and Walsh to win the foil indi­vidual title this year. 
Kalkina, the 1997 foil cham­pion, is a familiar opponent for Brown and Walsh. Kalkina dealt Walsh her only loss on the year. Walsh, however, won the season series 2-1 with a 5­4 victory over Kai kin a at the Midwest Intercollegiate Conference Championships. 
Brown also had success against Kalkina at the MTCC. Brown defeated Kalkina in the team competitions and 1.hen downed her in overtime in the individual tournament. 
Last year's women's foil champion, Felicia Zimmerman of Stanford, will be fencing in the epec tournament this year. 
"I think Stanford made a good move by having [Zimmerman! fence epee," Mustilli said. "Their l'oil team is deeper than their epee team so· the move makes them stronger overall. However, it also helps us. She is not as strong al epee so she will win less epee bouts than she would win fencing foil." 
Mus till i and Krol return for tlrn Irish epeo team. l\1ustilli. competing in her lirst champi­onship last year, finished fourth and earned first team All-American honors. 
Krol. the 1997 epee individ­ual champion, finished sixth at her second NCAA Championship last year. Last yr.ar's epee champion, Walker of' Penn State, returns to defend her title but she is hampered by a chest injury. 
"We are looking forward to beating Walker since she beat Magda and I last year." .\1ustilli said. "She is injured, but she is still an athlete. She will be a tough competitor." 
"She will probably not be 100 percent," Penn State coach Emmanuil Kaidanov said. "But she is very deter­mined to compete at the cham­pionships." 
Gaither and Casas are both newcomers to the NCAAs for the Irish at epee. Casas is a freshman who has fenced well all season. Ile posted at 44-14 record on the year and won a silver medal at tlrn 1999 Junior Olympics. 
Gaither has come on strong late in the season. After going 19-17 in tlrn regular season, he caught fire in the post-season, winning both tho MICC individ­ual title and the Midwest Regional title. 
Men's epee is the only weapon where the Irish havf> no NCAA experience. This, however, does not trouble coach Auriol. 
"Casas is a freshman but he has been fencing for a long time," he said. "He has the experience. I am not worried about Brian being under pres­sure. 
Gaither has been fencing well. He just needs to keep it together and deal with the pressure." 
Stephane Auriol comes to Waltham following a disap­pointing postseason. He lost his Midwest Regional foil title to David Huynh of Wayne State. Auriol hopes to turn around his recent slide at the championships. 
"1 think I'll be all right," he said. ''.I just had a bad day. 1 got my focus back now. [ think with the way I have fenced all year I can do alright. I just need to concentrate and focus on what I know how to do." 
"Ile has to fence better than he did at the Regionals," coach Auriol said. "But I think he will. He has to beat the guys he is supposed to beat." 
The other member of the men's foil team is llayes. Hayes is coming off his best weekend of the year, !'ailing just short of winning the Midwest Regional foil title. If the Irish are to have a chance at the title, Haves must contin­ue to fence well this weekend. The men's foil draw will not be easy for Auriol and Hayes. It is perhaps the deepest and toughest of all the weapons. 
MASTER 
YOUR CAREER 
DESTINY! 

~-COME TO THE SELF-ASSESSMENT WORKSHOP! 
~rkshop -Attendance to an is strongly encouragerl Limited space -Sign up in advance at Career and Placement Services (1-5200) 
When: Thursday, March 18, 4:00 -5:15 p.m. 
Where: DeBartolo Hall -Room 213 
When: Thursday, Maren 25, 4:00 -5;15 p.m. Wednesday, March 31, 4:00-5:15 p.m. Thursday, April 8, 4:00 -5:15 p.m. Where: DeBartolo Hall -Room 116 
Presented by Olivia Williams, Assistant Director 
Career and Placement Services 
"Them are 15 guys who am really good," Stephane Auriol said. "They have made junior teams or been ·ln Olympic teams. So it is really tough. I think it is the toui.;hest compe­tition out of all the weapons." 
The men's sabre team has dominated opponents all year. LaValle and Szel\e hope to prove that they are just as strong individually 



Marrow Donor 
@.egistry. 
Friday, Marc:h 19 
8:00 a.m. -4:00 p.m. 
LaFortune Ballroom 
I 
I ¦ 
.. -­
I 
LaValle is the dcf'nnding sabre champion. Lately, how­ever, Szcllo has been the domi­nant member or the team, win­ning the MlCC sabre title and the Midwest Regional title. All in all, it is very possible tho Irish could place 1-2 in the sabre. 
The Irish have been training for months for four days of competition. For the srrniors, this is thn last chance to trans­late their individual successes into the team litln that has eludPd them for so long. 
"I just hope that wo can come back with a victory," Stephane Auriol said. "I am confident. The team is confi­dent. We just have to go out there and do our job and hope­fully bring back a national championship." 
SAVE A LIFE JJ'OR FREE! 
MYTH: Bone marrow is extracted upon registry. 
FACT: A simple blood test is all that is required to be placed on the national registry. 
MYTH: There are already enough donors. 
FACT: THe chances of finding a bone marrow match are similar to winning the lottery ... 
THERE ARE NOT ENOUGH REGISTERED DONORS! 
Remember: If you have already joined the registry, you do not need to 
(2nd floor of LaFortune) re-register. Your membership is good for lite! 
YOU CAN MAKE A DIFFERENCE! ALL WELCOME 
Sponsored by the }Vlinority Pre-lt/ledical Society (lVlPjV[S) 

-------WHY NOT.... 
I Hometown: Lynchburg, VA I 
Shoe Size: 15AA 
I 
Favorite Food: Post-Mass Shake
I I 
1"Brother, it doesn't get any better than this. 
1 ANSWER THE CALL--today!" 
I --Fr. Paul Doyle, C.S.C., ND '65, '75, Rector, Dillon Hall 
I 

For more information on
I 
Holy Cross' one-year
I 
Candidate Program
I 
contact:
I 
Fr. Jim King, C.S.C. or
I 
Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. 
I 
1-6385
I vocation. l@nd.edu 
-·~ FOLLOW HIM .... ? 
¦ 
check cut 1HEPLUNGEatwww.nd.edu/~vcxntion 
ThmsJay, March 18, 1999 The Observer • TODAY page 27 
SLURRED SPEECH 

DK, FINE. 8VT AFTER l BUY NE.w DISHES, GLASSES AND FIRST· F'LooR W1NOoWS, CAN I 81JY Tl-11S GUITAR 
AMP f'RoM STEVE? 
DILBERT 

DO '<0(.) HA\/E. T\-\AT
~NO i~EN l 51\IO, 
W0M~N'5 PHONE. TO O O A.LL T\-\ AT 7'" 
''HOW A~ l 5UPP05ED 
NUM\:JE.R? 51-\E THEN I GLA.f\'i:.O 
50UND5 NICER. THAN 
'!'OU. 
E 
0 
0 
t: 
QI 
.c 
u 

~ ~ 
~1---LU....J.:lU..---llll;;;l.=-.L-1.---'~'----..J.._;,;=;.,:..:,------' 

--+..c.+"-+-O:;..+;.R-'-1 10 Flintstone tone? -~--t-.,.-t-,c-1 11 Scratch pad? "'!"1-:'c+='iiilliiill 12 Bar on.a car 
18 Broad bean 
23 Scrap for Spot 
24 Bradbury as an 
aviator? 25--mignon 26 Line of cliffs 21 French walk R U --+-+--+--l 28 Misanthrope A R E ____.... 29 Buggy power 


E 5 T 30 Composer Ned 
50 Lo-cal 51 Brenda who sang "I'm Sorry" 54 Cassini of fashion 55 When origami 
flourished? 58 Foolhardy 59 All, to start with 60 Co-op contract 81 Speed unit 82 Diatribe 63 Red Sea nation 
DOWN 
1 Unexciting 2 "Famous" name 3 It's sometimes 
stolen 4 Extreme suffix 5 Lines on a 
weather map 6 M-1, for one 7 Uzbekistan's 
--Sea 8 Cowboy's date 9 Set free 
DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: 'oiton John, Gloria Steinem, Aretha Franklin, Arnta Bryant, Sarah Jessica l'arker, Hoyt Axton, Simone Signord • 
Happy Birthday: You will be relentless in all that you pursue this year. Your ability to communicate with others will enable you to get vour point across, resulting in the help you require to pursue your goals. Your devoted attitude will be rewarded by those who are observing you ·.vith interest. You will be able to expand your circle of friends and develop meaningful relationships. Your numbers: b, f4, 21, 28, 34, 46 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Put your efforts into doing the best job you can. You will not be able to win at home, so don't even bother con­fronting the situation in question. Get into some physical activity with 

children, 00 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You mar have difficulty expressing your­sel emotionally to relatives, Don"t allow others to make decisions for )IOU. Follow your intuition. You are the best judge of your own situation. 
0000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You can expect opposition at work. D,m't be too eager to let others in on your erofessional intentions. Do your own thing and work at your own speed. Listen rather than reveal. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You 
will be pessimistic if you start to 
dwell on the past. Busy yourself with 
<., 1999 8111 Amtrn.1:0111 hv umvers.ii P,ess Sy11t1K..1h• 
projects that will help you become 
more aware of your own abilities. 
Your moody nature will drive those
SCOTT ADAMS 
you love away. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Continue lo avoid dealing with institutions, You will have better results later in the week. Take a breather and relax. 
You have taken on way too much. Your partner will need your attention. 
000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 221: Don't lend unreliable friends money. You will ruin your friendship, and you aren't likely to get back what you lent. Keep your personal problems to yourself. 0000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Your domestic situation will be confusing, Don't be misled if your mate is nice to you il1 front uf other people, You can expect fireworks later if you haven't resolved personal issues. 00 · 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your memory will be superb, This will be a great day to talk to individuals who can provide you with valuable infor­mation. You may want to do a little investigating and traveling about. 
00000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 211: Take care of any minor health prob­lems immediately, Stay away from financial ventures that have a built-in risk factor. Discuss personal finances with someone knowledgeable. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec, 22-Jan. 19): Your emotional life may be at stake if you have been preoccupied with the business world, You had better make amends quickly if you don"t want to come home to an empty house. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will be taken the wrong way if you don't spell things out. Many of your pursuits will be fruitless today. Get some rest. Tomorrow will be better. 
000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will tend to overindulge, spend too much on children, and waste time with individuals who aren't the besl influence, Do yourself a favor. Work on hobbies or self-improvement. 
00000 
¦ OF INTEREST 
The 1-lesburgh Center for International Studies is sponsoring a lecture, "Should tl;ie Truth Always be Told? Cultural Challenges to Truth Commissions" given by Priscilla Hayner today at 12:30 p.rn. in semi­
nar room C-103 of the Hesburgh Center. 
The Medieval Institute is sponsoring a lecture, "The 
Cult of King Alfred the Great" given by Simon Keyes of' 
Cambridge Univ1~rsity today at 4: 15 p.rn. in room 715 
of the Hcsburgh Library. 
Vincent DiMartino and Craig Cramer will present a 
trumpet and organ concert tonight at 8::10 p.m, in th,~ 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart. The Program includes 
works by Schmidt, Bandel, Torelli, Nelhybel and · Havel. The concert is free and open to the public. 
English Major Fair follow-up meeting will be held 
tonight from 7 -8:30 p.m. in 106 ()'Shaughnessy llall, 
Advisors will be available. 
Film, Television & Theatre Major J;air follow-up 
meeting will be held today from 3-4 p.m. in 116 
Washington llall. Advisors will be available. 
The Observer Sports Staff is 
hiring for paid positions. Call 1-4543 if interested. 

Puzzle by Richard SIivestri 
31 All worked up 32 Punished. schoolmaster­
style 34 Pesto, e.g. 37 Restricted air 
lane 41 For the most 
part 43 In the open 44 1939 movie 
canine 46Call on 47 Have an effect 
48 Rock-and-roll 51 Potting soil pioneer Freed 
52 Different 
49 Colombian money 53 First place 
50 City between 56 G.P.'s grp. 
Boston and Salem 57 Invoice amount 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95~ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Su11day crosswords from the last 50years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
.. 
.,,..... 
t Sulu portrayer, in "Star Trek" 8 Prego competitor 10 Fakery 14 Out of whack 15 Where Oum is 18 Prefix with -gon 11 October and November? 19 Co-fighter 20 Ogee shape 21 Good time 22 A whole lot 24 Hoped-for review 25 Warning at St. Andrews 28 Bedouin's domain 
33 Potters· supplies 34 It leaves its mark on the beach 35 Ancient 
marketplaces 36 Kind of clef 37 Didn't just shrug 
the shoulders 38 Football Hall-of-Fa mer 
Tarkenton 39 Sea-diving area 40 Topple from 
power 41 Minotaur's land 42 Necessarily 44 Like this puzzle 45 Play the siren 46 Not legally 
binding 47 Yellowstone sight 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
The Observer 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­
ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name ---------------------------­
Address --------------------------­
City ________State ____ Zip______ 
Big East Honors 
King in Court 
¦ Two Irish baseball players 
¦ Boxing promoter Don King will 
earned this week's confer­
attend grand jury testimony in the 
ence awards.
Hol:rfield-Lewis investigation. 
... 
PORTS 
p.22
p.21 
THE 
page 28 ------0 Thursday, March 18, 1999
BSERVER 

¦ FENCING 
Irish fencers prepare for NCAA Chan;ipionships 
By MIKE CONNOLLY /\ll-/\mericans: Myriah Brown, .'vlagda Associate Sports Fditor Krol, Luke LaValle, Nicoln Mustilli and Sara Walsh. Tim Irish alsn bring Twcnty-scv1•n cliffPrcnt S('hools have /\uriol. tlH' srnior foil capt11iu who has qualified f1111ccrs for the 1999 NCAA qualified twice previously. Frnshmen !<cncing Championships in Waltham, Brian Casas and Gabor Szelle and \1ass.. but onlv l\VO sr·hools really mat­juniors .lames Gaithf'r and Chas Hayes ter: NotrP Dame and Penn State. are first-time qualifiers who round out 
In ordct· to have a legitimate shut al the Irish field. winning the championship, a team Prrnn State brings seven All­must qualify IO fencers. Only the Americans to Waltham. Carla Esteva, Fighting Irish and tlir, Nittany Lions David Lidow, Gang l.u, Thomas Feng,
..._ 
have accomplished this foat. Other Aaron Stuewe, \1ichael Takagi and strong teams sur:h as Stanford and Charlotte Walker make the Nittany Princeton will lw reprnsented, but Lions the most experienGed team in without 10 l'r•nccrs, they have little thr firld P(•mi State also featurPs chance of winning the title. three newcomers in Stephanie Eim, "I think when it comes down to it on Christina Klemp and David Landgren. the last day," foil captain Stephane In the regular season, Penn State Auriol said. "it will be just us and beat the men's team 14-13 and the Penn State again." women's ·team 23-9. These early sea­
The Irish and the Nittany Lions arc son setbacks do not mean that Penn accustomPd to close battles in the State will defeat the Irish at the NCAA tournament. 1-'or the past four NCAAs. The NCAAs havr a completely years, Penn State has wo11 the team different format than the regular sea­title while Notre Dame has finished son meets. The Irish have vastly second the past three years and third improved since January, especially in 1995. With a national title in 1994, with the addition of Gaither, who did the Irish are the last team besides the nnt fence against Penn State earlier in Nittany Lions to win the champi-· the season. onship. "Penn State is the best team this 
Last year's championships featured year," head coach Yves Auriol said. the closest battle between the two "But that doesn't mean that they will schools. Penn Statr, edged Notre Dame win this year. I think that weapon by 149-147, a difforence of a mere two weapon they are not the best sabre 
,, 
bouts. team. We are bettor in sabre. In men's 
Both teams come to Waltham with a epee, they are not better than we are. blend of experienced fencers and first­They have a good men's foil team, bet-time qualifiers. The Irish feature five All-American Magda Krol hopes to lead the Irish fencing team to its first championship since 
see FENCING/ page 26 1994 this weekend in Waltham, Mass. 

¦ IRISH INSIGHT 
Irish vie for first tournament bid 
By TED BASSANI  
Sports Writer  
It's NCAA tournament time,  
and I'm already psyched.  
No, it's probably not what you  
think; I'm talking about the  
NCAA hockey tournament. In  
case you haven't been follow­ 
ing, Notre Dame may only be  
one W(WkPnd away from the  
first NCM hockey tournament  
bid in school historv.  
llowev1ff, the pm:pose of this  
editorial is not to r:elebrate the  
grnat s(iason we had and to tell  
vou how close W<' camn to a  
tournament bid. No. I am hem  
to tell you exactly why we  
should get a bid.  
First of all, allow me to  
describe a little bit about the  
strurture of college hockp,y and  
how tlw tournament selection  
process works. Currently in  
Division I hockey, there are four  
major c(mforenccs eligible for  
the tournament. The Metro­The Observer/Kevin Dalum  
Sophomore right wing Ryan Dolder and the Irish hockey squad seekAtlantic·Athlntic Conference  
the first NCAA tournament bid in Notre Dame history. (MAAC) is in its first year in D-1,  
and thus will most liknly not be  matic bids can be handed out,  sports are (i.e. basketball). 
repms1mt1-1d in tlrn tournament.  depending on who wins the  Every team at or above .500  
Automatic touniament bids  conference tournaments.  in D-I is compared aga nst  
arc givrn to t}rn regular season  Twelve teams in all qualify for  every other team with ,t similar  
champions of the four confer­ the NCM tnurnament; six are  record in the Pairwise  
ences ICCJIA. WCII/\, ECAC and  seeded in the west region and  B.ankings. Ear:h team i~ mea­ 
Hockey East) as well as to the  six in the east region.  sured in the following cate­ 
winners of each C'nnfornnce's  As for the selection criterion,  gories: Ratings Percent:l.ge  
post-season tournament, just  hockey is a bit more exact  Index (RPI), record ven;us com- 
like in basketball. So, as many  about-which teams qualify for  
•  as eight or as fow as fou1· auto- the tournament than other  see INSIGHT, page 25  


¦ WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Swimmers look to make splash at NCAAs 
By WES RICHARDSON with three competing in the Sport~ Writer event. Kline leads the charge with a 1 : 0 2. 3 8. the 1 7th ­
An unprecedented eight fastest time. women will represent Notre Just 11 hundredths of a Dame at tho NCM Swimming second and five places and Diving Championships behind her is Allison Lloyd, this weekend in Athens, Ga. followed by Suddarth. 
·After a complex selection Suddarth placed eighth in process, the No. 23 Irish the 100 breaststroke at last qualified for 15 swims, a yeat's meet and 22nd in University record, and fresh-1997. She will be joined by man Heather Mattingly quali-Llovd in the 200 breast­fled as the first diver ever to stroke, in which thP two are represent Notre Da;me at the ranked 18th. and 27th. mr.et. respectively. 
Only 13 schools will send Notre Dame's b1-1st hop1-1 for more swimmers than Notre a top-eight finish in an indi­Dame, which hopes to move vidual event lies with Nixon. into the top 15. Having crushed her competi-
The Irish sent only eight tion in both sprint freestyle swimmers .to last year's events at February's Big East championship and finished meet, Nixon is ranked sixth 23rd. .. out or 51 swimmers in the 50 
Three of four 1998 freestyle. Ch;;1mpionship-team swim-Nixon at·so edged into the mets will return to the top 16 with a 49.89 in thn NCAAs. ·· · 100 freestyle and is the only 
Three~time All-American Irish swimmer to automati· Shannon Suddarth and cally qualif'y for the meet. 
·senior Brittany _Kline with Nixon will also compete in participate in both brnftst-the 100 butterfly where she stroke events, while Carrie will be joined by co-captain Nixon will make repeat per-Liz Barger, who qualified for formaiir-es tn· the sprint both butterfly events based freestyles. on her membership in the 
The Irish will be strongest inthe· l0U•yard breaststroke, see IRISH/ page 25 

ar Blue-Gray National Men's Lacrosse 
Classic at Loyola 
SPORTS 
Women's Swimming
Thursday-Sunday Saturday, 12 p.m. 
at NCAA Championships
ATA 
Thursday-Saturday
Softball
vs. Iowa 
at Purdue
Saturday, 11 a.m..
GLANCE 
Tuesday, 2 p.m. 




