The Observer kicks off Web site 
21st Century Education 
The Obsercer returns to the Internet today with a new and 
Sainl Mary ·s received a technological overhaul 

Wednesday
impro1wd uwh site. ft u,;/l includf' llf'WS. sports, Viewpoint. 
throughout the past few months. making the 
Scme and selected plwtographs. 

College ready to head into the millennium. 
AUGUST 25, 
page 7 
page 3 
1999 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIII NO. 2 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 


WELCOME TO A NEW YEAR 
Mullins faces allegations of 
stalking two 
By CHRISTINE KR.ALY Associatl' News Fdirnr 
Hoger Mullins, former university asso­ciate vicn presidnnt f'or human rnsources. will go on trial next month f'or allegedly stalking two former female law studnnts. Jin resigned .July I, af't11r working for the department since 1985. 
"I know how this situation damages my ability to carry out my rrsponsibili-Mullins ties, and that is why I think it bnst that I resign," he said in his letter of rnsignation to Father William Beauchamp. University execu­tive vice president. 
Mullins is being charged with two counts of stalking, each punishable by up to thrne ynars in prison. 
l le was sclrndulecl l'or trial .July 27. but his defonse attorney asked for a continu­ance, according to John Maciejczyk, a St. Joseph County Prosecutor working OJI the case. The trial is now set li>r S11pt. 21 at tlrn St. Joseph Superior Court. 
see MULLINS/page 4 


Poorman takes on the top Student Affairs job 
By TIM LOGAN N,·w, F.d11or 
1-'allwr Mark Poorman took tlw r1d11s of tlw O!Ticu of Studt\lll 1\ITairs 011 .July I. bringing a ,ww facp and a l'n~sli nnlhusi­
asm Lo Lim 
high-pro­l'il<-job w h i ,. h 
d1•11ls with 
I'. IL Ill jl U S 
lift• arid sludont COllCtlrllS. 
I' 0 0 I' • man, who s11t:c111:cls l'aLrit:ia (J'I Iara ­vi r" p rn s icl (' 11 l f'o r St u d <' JI t /\ll'nirs !'or 11i1w y1Ht1·s and now dH,Ul or till' I.aw School -has 
hPP!l t(•acliing Llwology and liv­
ill){ i11 Nolrn l>aml, rcsidnnco halls sinrn I'J'JO. 1 ll' lwpus this oxpnri('IICll will prqrnrn him w111! l'or tlw post lw now holds. 
''l'vo htHlll clos1• to tlw mis­sion ol' Slud1,11t .,\fl'airs for u long limti doing a lot ol' dilfor-Pill thi11gs," said l'on1·1111t11, who has taught, sorvml as a rnclor and worknd in Campus Ministry during his limu al Notrn Dame. "I l'Pnl rnally priviltigml to Im al.Jin Lo smvti in this rapacity." 


Tlw new vicn pn,sidtmL's boss. UnivPrsily pri,sident Fatlwr hlward Malloy, cited Poorman·s divt)rsily ol' experi­<HH'.llS al NotrP lhtm<' as a stro11g poinL 
"Fallwr Poorman has dPmon­slratPd his adminislrativn acu­11w11 in •• suc.nission of kny rolns whiln dnrtly balancing these rnsponsibilities with his acade­mic pursuits," Malloy said wlwn a111wu11cing th1• appoi11tnwnt in /\pril. l'oormun will havu to bal­ance nvun 11wrn rospo11sibilitios i11 ·his 1ww rnl(). 
/\s vicn prcsidnnt for Student Affairs, Poorman will be rnsponsiblo for Campus Minislrv. stud,~nt r1!side11c1!S, residrnl!;ll lifo. multicultural and i11ltlrnatio11al student affairs, stuc!nnl activities, Notre Dame SPruriLy/Policn, tlw University 
sec POORMAN/page 6 
Students criticize ne-w system 
By MAGGY TINUCCI Assistant News EJitor 

Tradilionally known for its rowdiness and party atmos­phere, senior football ticket dis­tribution Monday night was calm and uneventful. 
The studtrnLs' single-lilB pro­cossion, ending when the last tickets were handed out at 9:30 
a.m.. was tlw rnsult of' a new systnm. The admi11istra-See Also 
lion closed 
the door "Another this year on tradition dies" tlw annllal ritual ol' page 2 
camping outside of the .Joyce C11nl<\r for tic:kPLs, cit­ing co·ncurns with safley, litter and alcohol consumption. 
"All.hough I thought thn way tho system was implement.Hu was ridiculous -uspecially with it bning the l'irst day of' dass. The distribution iLstill' went protly well," senior l\folissa Ilogg said. 
In past years, studonts formed lines as early as noon the day bef'ore tirket sales bngan. ThP first group in !inn had the honor of unofficially kicking off th,: 

ment tried to retain tradition, despit1~ facing problmns dim to this soason's early season honw opener. Tho first home game is Saturday against Kuusas. Typically, the first honrn gunrn is at least one week later. 
"Our proposal triPd to koep the camping-out tradition 
see TICKETS/ page 8 

year's season. 
"Under this system, [the first person in line] donsn't g1~t any reward for his hard work," said senior Nate Medland. "That's part of the f'un. The earlior you get thure, the bettnr seats you get. You lose somB of Lim tradi­tion with this system." 
Micah l\lurµhy, studeut body µresident, said student gowrn­
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, August 25, 1999 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Another 
tradition dies 
Wekonrn !Jack to the i11sanity. 

Monday night's "camp uut" for l'ootball iickets can only b(-\ describod us completely' uni.! utterly lame. It doesn"t even dP.s1wv11 prnps for trying. 
With the exeeptiun of tlw 

absurdlv irreconcilabh" issue of parir,tals, I have nt'V!W been more frustrated with the University. Camping out for football tkkPts has bc\en a rich tradition for lunger than most people can even rmnembr,r, and at a school that claims to pride itself on 

tradition, the lack of resped Colleen to this historical custom is 
Gaughen

deeply disappointing. 
The entirn lottery procm;s for lickel distribution was Viewpoint confusing, cxasµoratin!{ and editor VHl"Y pourly plannnd. ThtirP simply wasn't e11ough time lo communicate the details or to unswHr the result­ing questions students had. How hard would it have been to send a leuer LO students during the sumnwr explaining the new system? Oh wait, that would requirr, both eell'ort A~D sense. 
Whm1 my friends and I arriwid around 1l p.m., we were gn•ctNl with insults and sarcasm from the Stadium uslrnrs as they rudely slammed the gatt\ in our focns. \'\,1-\ then had to blig for infor­mation that they wen' rnluctani lo give. Excuse ME, sir, so sor-ry to make you do your job. 
We were NOT told that in order tu purchase tickets tugctlwr you had to get your lotlery tick­ets together. It was NOT published in The Observer advertisement or the campus mailing, and, contrary to their snide remarks, we were i\'OT the only ones who didn't understand. The aimless crowd milling about us were just as clue­less, as was the rest or the Stadium staff. To say that mm hand didn't know what the other was doing is the understatement or the year. 
If the whole point of a lottery system is to ensure fairness. then th'"is one l"ailc,d miserably becaw;e the order in which Wll bought our tickets the l'ollowing morning depend1-id on when we got our lottery tickets. Besides, there was no reason to stay once they announced the "magic number." 
The details were never effectively communicat­ed, but the fundamental problem was that were too many details. When an event that is supposed to be fun becomes too organized and controlled, that takes tlrn spirit out it. The best part of camp­ing out was that it was voluntary and inspired by pure student enthusiasm; it was not dictated or mandated. The spirit of' class unity was totally lost in this new pruc11ss, which is particularly dis­heartening to us senior guinea pigs. 
lt' the central issue behind the new ticket distri­bution system was to prevent ah;ohol use and lit­tering, they could have simply tightened security outside the .fovce Center where the real cam­pouts used to be. And if the University is going tu take action on alcohol consumption on this cam­pus. it needs to stop hiding behind inconsisten­cies and do something that will actually make a dif1erence. Standardize policins among dorms instead feeding the gender double standard. Eliminat1~ the need for binge drinking by provid­ing increased campus activities that peoplP will actually attend. (Note the pathetic turnout or only a handful of students who actually did camp out all night. The administration did a damn line job of killing what they couldn't control.) 
Spend IHss lime on national image and morn time on the students who keep the real tradi­tion of l'iotre Dame alive. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are lhose uf the aullwr and nol necessarily those ofTlw Obseriwr. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Maggv Tinucci Mike Vanegas Matt Smith 
Graphics 
Erin Piroutek 
Joe Mueller 
Sports 
Lab Tech 
Bnan Kessler Kevin D.1lum 
Viewpoint 
Colleen Caughen 

The Ob~erver tlJSP·S 599 ~-'1000) i.~ publidu.:d Morn.lay thrmigh fri<.by ex1.:c-pr Jurinb exam om<l vou;,uion pcri..x.L~. Th'-.: Oll~.:rvcr i~ .1 memh..:r uf che A11s(l\..iucU Pr~1o. All reprnJu..:tion rig,lm.. :tre n:-.1,crvcd. 
OBSERVER POLICIES 
The Observer editorial policy 
The Observor is Lhc studunt,-run. daily p1·int and online m•wspapnr snrving Notre Dami' and Sainl Mary's. 
As statod i11 tlw C\<litorial policy, news is reporte<l as accu­rately anrl objectively as possible. The-\ Observer is produeed by amateur journalists, yet t. ditors, reporters, photographers and designers strive to conduct Lhemsnlves as professionals al all times. 
The Observer publishes stories about local events and issues that affect students and staff members or both institu­tions. As an Associated Pri>ss rrnwspaper, The Observer µrlnls wire stories an<l graphics Lo iuform readers ol' naLiun­al and world news and sport<.;, 
Story ideas predominantly are generated by reporters who focus on specific beats ur who regularly cover council meet­ings and sporting events. Story ideas also come from adver­tisements in The Observer and on campus posters, as well as from Notre IJame·s Ofliw of Public lielatiuns, Saint Marv's f)(\parlmcnt or MarkNing and Communicntions, the Notrn Dame Sports lul'ormalion Department and Saint l\lury's Athletic Department. 
Important also arn tips from members of the Notre IJamo and Saint Mary's romrntmity who call, \'I-Tito ur t~-mail The Ohs1~rver staff nigarding upcoming events or internsting fea­tures. Groups should pass along pe. rtinent information to department editors at least one week before a planned event. 
'.'vlombers of clubs or dorms sponsoring eHmts are encour­ag(,d to complete an "Ol" lntornst" or a "Sports Briefs" liirm, available• at Tlw Observer offlcP and. at llaggar College Center, .several days before an event. This information wilI run as part of a bi-weekly community calendar. t\s an alter­nativ(', groups may purdrnsc advcrtisP1mmts at spncial cam­pus ralt'.S. 
As a rule, The Observer does not publish previews of lee­turns or evm1ts which reporters plan to cover. excepting cir­cumstances in which speakers are nationally or internation­ally renowned. Previews are also run when it is not feasible for a reporter to attend an event or when a preview is more appropriate than a post-event article. 
Sports previews and wrap-ups generally are assigned for all varsity games; big games or championships in dub and dorm leagues arc also reported. 
Editors are always willing to discuss The Observer's cover­age of tbe Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community. They can be contacted at Urn phone numbers and e-mail address­es printed each day on the first page of the Viewpoint sec­tion and available at the Observer's Web site, httpJ/observ­er.nd.edu. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
vVednesday Thursday 
. Frosh/soph ticket camp . Dillon pep rally: Music. 
out: Line opens at 10 p.m;, entertainment and Tony 
lottery numbers distributed 
Hice. 6 p.m., outside al 1:15 a.m. 
Dillon. 

. Boll Davie live: The coach 
. JACC concert: Mark will broadcast his weekly 
Lowry will perform at 7:30 TV show from Damon's 
p.m. Call 1-800-522-9376 Clubhouse, 52885 I.JS 31. 
for tickets. South Bend, at 7:30 p.m. 
The Observer ad policy 
Tho Observer is the student-run. daily newspa­per sl'rving Notre Damn and Saint Mary's. 
Advertising policies are established by The Observer's gcrn1ral board and can be altored by tho administration of the University of Notre Dame du Luc in its legal capacity as publisher of The ObservPr. Tht~ University prohibits the advertise­ment of alcohol, birth control and any adw1rti:m­ment submittnd by specilied types of grouµs. 
All advertising is subject to thP approval of' The Observer's general board, and only the publication of an advertisement signil1es its acceptance. Th11 Observer will not knowingly publish any advcrtise­meuts that violate the law. 
Advertisers shall defend and hold Tlw Ohserver harmless from all claims, demands and/or litiga­tion directly or indirectly related to improper or nnauthorized us!' of photograph, drawing, like­ness. name. logo, trademark, representations or any other material provided by The Observer in any advertisement. 
The advertiser and, if applicable, the advertising agency assume liability for all content and respon­sibility for any claims made against Tho Observer arising from tlw publication of the udwrtistmrnnt. 
Thn names or peoplP who place advnrtisnnwnts am not normally made~ public. llowflver, The Observer reserves tlrn ri~ht lU release namns upon prnper n"'qUP.St f'rom appropriate law nnf'orcnment agencies or dun to other circumstances. 
Advertising simulating nows must carry tht> words "paid adv1.1rtisPmtrnt." Tho Observer reserves the right to label any advertiSt\llll',nls thus. 
The Observer is not responsible for e. rrors when copy, illustrations tir any required material is sub­mitted after listed deadlines. When The Obscirvcir is responsible !'or an error, liability is limihid to tlrn cost of the spaco occupied by and tlrn first insertion ol' the erroneous advertisenwnt. 
Any advertiser with paymnnt morn than 60 days past due will be prohibited l'rom advertising until the entire balance is paid in full. 
The complete advi~rtising policy is found in the Rate Card and Publication Calendar available in The Observer office, 024 South Dining Jlall, or by mail. P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN, 46556. 
Friday Saturday 
. 
Stadium Tours: Noon to . Alcoholics Anonymous: 3 p.m. from Leahy Gate. 10:30 a.m., Center f'or 

. 
Pep Rally: JoycP_Center Social Concerns. opens to studtmls at 5:30, . ND vs. Kansas: 2:30 public at 5:45. p.m. Notre Dame Stadium. 

. 
Snite Movie: "Easy . Snite Movie: "Easy Hider" will play at 7:30 in Hider" will play at 7:30 in Annenbcrg Auditorium. J\nnenberg Auditorium. 


LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast Acl:uWcalhcr'"' f(1recasl fclr llaytirnc con<lilil>lls. ~111c.l high tcrnpl.!raturcs 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, Aug. 25. 
60s Lines separate high temperature zones tor the day 
70s 

H L Wednesday 76 63 
~' 
8

Thursday ~ 78 64 
JOs -­
40:s ,.CJ

Friday ~ 87 66 
~ 60s 

50•/~'7 r.:,~ -50s/"" FRONTS:
Saturday ¢-.. 86 65 
...--.r-.&..A. 
~ 

@1999 Ai;cuWealher, Inc. GOLD WARM STArt0NAl1Y Pt&S.SUf'tl. 
® (0 . D ~ D' D . . Q
Sunday / '~ 81 61 
.

High Low Showers Rain T-slorma Flurriea Snow Ice Sunny ~-~ou~,~-C~oudy-

Via Asso<:ialed Pres.,; 

Atlanta 85 66 Denve< 91 61 New York 83 70 Boise 97 63 Detroit 73 66 Reno 96 55 
Boston 81 66 Houston 94 77 Richmond 83 68
Q,9.~4Q.@ i) ~ 8 
Chicago 79 63 Louisville 82 63 St. Paul 84 62 
Showers 7-.stor~•"~ Aa1°.. F/u.•n·, es Snow I-"" S unny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Dall.as 101 76 Miami 91 74 Seattle 84 62 
Via .4ssoc1a1ed Press Grapl"ticsNel 
Wednesday, Augusc 25, 1999 The Observer . CAM PUS NEWS page 3 
Maddnva classrooms walkr\d inlo 
By NOREEN t.;ILLESPIE 
21sl-rnntury nducalion not by \,1in1 ,\11.11-y's Fd1tu1 
cracking the books. but by log-­ging Oil. Studonts attending dassPS in Taking Lim next stPp in a con­Lim ncwly-n:novatl'd Hng-ina ancl 
ti11uing µush lo imµrove camµus 
FITNESS FALL SCHEDULE ~ 1999 
RSRC Activit)l Room 1 1 12:15-12:45 Cardio Box M/F $23 2 12:15-12:45 Step I w $13 3 3:15-4:15 Step II M/W/F $38 4 4:20-5:20 AeroStep M/W/F $38 5 5:30-6:30 IntervaJ Step M/W $27 6 8:30-9:30pm Cardio Box M/W $27 7 4:25-5:25 Step I T/Th $26 8 5:30-6:30 Cardio Box Tffh $26 9 4:15-5:30 Step II n'Sculpt Su $15 10 5:40-6:00 All Abs Su $10 
RSRC Activiti Room 2 11 4:15-5:15 Cardio Kick 1\1/W $27 12 5:25-6:10 Flex n' Tone 1\1/W $27 13 7:20-8:20am Step II Tffh $26 14 4:00-5:15 Cardio Sculpt Tffh $33 15 5:25-6:10 Lo Impact Tffh $26 16 5:00-6:15 Dbl. Step n'Sculpt Su $15 
ROCKNE CLASSES Room 301 17 5:30-6:30 Step I M/W $27 18 12:15-12:45 Flex n'Tone T/Th $24 19 4:15-5:15 AeroStep T/Th $26 20 5:20-6:20 Hi Intensity Tffh $26 
AQUATIC CLASSES Rolfs Aquatic Center 21 12:15-12:45 Aquacise 1\1/W/F $34 22 6:45-7:45pm Aquacise T/Th $26 
BEGISTB.ATIQ~ 

WHEN: Thursday, August 26, 7:30am WHERE: Rolfs Sports Recreation Center Classes are open to all ND students, staff, faculty and their spouses. Registration takes place throughout the semester. Schedule is subject to change. Minimum of 12 class registrants. Classes begin Monday, August 30. Questions, call 1-6100. 
Saint Mary's renovates and improves crunpus technology 
lr•drnology, sumnwr rPnovations to IO classrooms included new equiµment to betler l"acilitale 1\ducation. 
'This is a significant changn in Uw comµuti11g m1v[ronnwnt," Joni C:DopPr, din~ctor of' inf"orrnation tnclrnolog-y. said. "This d11111011­strates an increasnd commitrrnmt lo technology at Saint Mary's." 
Ntiw classrooms fiiaLUre several ttH·hnological irnprovnmnnts. 

including classrooms wll()rn a computer is available for <Wery student. Wirnd classrooms are also available with amplification devices, video tiquipmnnt and a cumpuUng µodium. 
"This is sonmthing thn f'an1lly is jumping on," CoopPr said. "Bm:ausu they havn been calling for this to happen, those class­rooms ar1\}1navily book1•d 11hr Lhe semesLorj. 
HEY SPORTS FANS, 
Have you been searching for a convenient way to buy sports tickets? 
Are you looking for a quick and easy way to auction your sports tickets at a price you w~int? 
Where can you find one web site that satis­fies all your ·'gameday" needs, such as hotels, restaurants, and entertainment? 
KeyPlay.com 
Your Online Gameday Solution 
Also new to sevHral coursos f'or 
the fall semester will be wnb­
basnd course information, which 
allows studl'nts to accoss infor­
mation about specific coursPs 
using tlrn intnrnet 
"lnstmtd ol' roceiving-a syllabus 
on thn iirst day of class. sludnnL'i 
may bn rderred to a wnb pag1i," 
Cooµ<~r said. · 
T<ichnology rnsourcns am avail­
abll1 in Cushwa-Ldghton Library, 
wlrnrn a 24-hour computer clus­
tnr lms opnnml in nm basnnwnt 
after thr1rn months of' rmwva­
lions. 
Th,, lab f'oaturPs new 
Macintosh and personal comput­
nrs that am not usml for class 
purposns. 
. /\ddressing tho problorn of class 
use in thn Lfi Mans computm 
labs. the library compulnr dustnr 
is ussigrmd strictly for stud,ml use 
24 hours a day. 
"W(• ran into the problem Umt students would oftPn hn told to lcavo lthe l.o Mans labl hncause of' classes," Coopnr said. "Wp now have facililiPs for both instruc­tional and sludnnt usn." 
The improvements correlate with a collngP-widn cmnmitment to intng-rate tnchnology into Lim curriculum, Coopnr said. 
"JThe clustrir) accounts for both traditional and currnnl methods of scholarship," he said. "This is very exciting because it rnpre­sents a comrnilnwnl to tnchnolo­gy at tho turn oft!w milh~nnium." 
Many have visitnd tlw library lo S(l(l tlm !WW facility. 
"We did noticP that ovnr the weekend there wnrn numerous visitors lo the facility," said Sist<ff Betty llollenhorst. dirnctor of' Cushwa-Leighton Library. 

SAVE I'JO 40%. FREE DEllVERY!*
WE PRO ISENOTTtfRIPYOU OFF...(ASMUCR). BUY TEXTBOOKS ONLINE. 
c01 . ID'n 1 Ji!tB 1 liU e, 
• 1999 BIG WORDS, Inc. 

GRE 
INDIANA UNIVERSITY 
SOUTIIBEND 
CONTINUING EDUCATION 
GMAT LSAT 
EXAM REVIEW COURSES 
Be better prepared for the GRE, GMAT or LSAT and spend less money doing so. IUSB Continuing Education exam reviews are priced hundreds of dollars less than other exam prep programs and offer you proven strategies for attacking even the most difficult questions. 
GRE Review, two sections: five Thursdays, beginning Sept. 2, 6-10 p.m., and Saturday, Oct. 2, 1-5 p.m.; or five Wednesdays, beginning Oct. 13, 6-10 p.m., and Saturday, Nov. 13, 8 a.m.-noon; $389. 
GMAT Review: five Wednesdays, beginning Sept. 8, 6-10 p.m., and Saturday, Oct. 9, 1-5 p.m.; $389. 
I.SAT Review, two sections: two Thursdays and two Mondays, beginning Sept. 2, 6-10 p.m.; or two Wednesdays and tw-o Thursdays, beginning Oct. 13, 6-10 p.m.; $289. 
All classes meet on the IUSB campus, 1700 Mishawaka Ave., South Bend. Fees include all materials. 
To register or for more information, call IUSB Continuing Education at 237°4261. 
Please Recycle The Observer 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, August 25, 1999 

Mullins 
continued from page l 

"The case is prnceeding as any criminal case normally proceeds," said Maciejczyk, who could not comnrnnt on any of the case's evidence lmcmtse the case is pend­ing. 
According to a Mishawaka Police . Department report, a man had been stalking the wonwn f'rom Sept. 1, 199~, to March 17, 1999, the South Bend Tribune reported. 

On Marrh 11, a man was sPen in the hallway of the women's apartment build­ing and then left when one of the women Inf! her apartmPnt with her boyl'ri('nd around 10 p.m. The man was waiting out­side her building whnn the woman returrwd. 
During a separate incide1Jt, the mun in this matter," Mullins also said in his knocked on t.he door of the women's resignation letter. apartment on March 17, according to the Since Mullins' resignation, the report. When u vic-t.:niversity tim's boyfriPnd appointed 
answered the door. "/ lell you now that these cha-rges Hichard 
the man said he was are false and I am eunfldent lhat I Nugent, a looking for building 1977 Notre
will prevail in this matter." 
451. lie then looked Dame gradu­around the boyfriend ate, as a into the apartment. Roger Mullins rnplacement. 
The report also said former associate vice president "During his that prior tu each inci­!Mullins'] time
for Human Resources
denl, a neighbor had at Notre seen the man under Dame, he the building's stairs. served the 
Mullins turned himself in to authorities University with distinction and as an out­in April after his lawyf'r, Bill Stanley, had standing human resource professional," learned of tlrn charges. Stanley declined said Beauchamp in a statement. comrnenl due to th() pending nature of the !\either director of Public Helations case. Dennis Moure or newly-appointnd Nugnnt 
"I tell you now that thes(' charges am could comment due to a personnel confi­
"Notre Dame has b1ien very good to me." Mullins said in the lfitt,ir. "I am grateful for the opportunity to have been part of' the University, and I wish it and you all the best in the months and years ahead." 
Several factors will determine the out­come of the criminal case, said Maciejczyk. 
Mullins' punishment, if any, could depend on numerous details, such vic­tims' statements and Mullins' level of edu­cation. 
He has no prior convictions, If convict­ed, Mullins could avoid jail time because he has no criminal history. 
Indiana law delines stalking as a pat­tern of condurt that would cause a rea­sonable person to feel intimidatnd. fright­ened or threatened. 
Material from the South Bend 'fribune 
orldNation 


Wcdne.~day, Augusr 25, 1999 -COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Roller coaster accidents cause two deaths 
HICI IMONIJ, Vn. 

/\ Nt\W York man diod in an appanrnt acci­dt>11l on a rull1•r 1·0:tsl1!r ill which ridnrs sla11cl through SPVl'rnl loops that turn llwlll upsid(• down. It was 01w of lwo fatul ,u·cidt\Jlls in as many days, tlw nthc~r 01111 in Calil'ornia. Timothy Fan, 20, w:is killnrl Monday night 011 llw :i0­111 ph SlwckwavP ridl' at tht: 400-ucrc l'aramoun t King's Dom inion tlwnrn park. Ollkials at Lh<' park, locatPd 20 mih~s north ol' llidu110111l, ,-,.J,•ast>d fow dNails about tlrn iud­drnll. Park spok1:swoma11 HPtsy Moss confirmc•d the fatality. whirh h..1pp_t,1H:d about 8AO p.111., and said i\11 i11v1•sli~atio11 was 11111hwway. A dis­ahlr•cl l2-y..ar-old h11y clii.d Sunday al'!Pr plum­11111U11g t'mm tlw Drop Zorw rid,· al !'aramo1111t's {,n,al ,\nwrirn Tlwnll' Park in Santa Clam. 
Burglar sues homeowner 
HOSEVll.l.f:. Midi, 

;\ man who brokP i11to a housi; is suing Llw ow1wr, saying slw was n:sponsihlH !'or tlw hPating Im took wlwn h1· rPlurrwd l.11 llw homc> t!H• 1wxl day. Cassidy Vanllorn, 21, sul'­f'NPcl lwo hrnkPn arms. a broken jaw and 11tlwr i11juri1\s in llw .July J (J1J7 attad; at tlw h1111H• 111' Diana 1-'1,lbigg. !tis all11r1wy said Ttwsday. Va11I lorn is s«iPking al lMsl $2:i,000 in damagPs. /\II.hough Folbigg did nol takP part in tlH· allad., sh!' ow,·d a duty lo Vard lorn to providP a safo !'llVironnwnL at lll'r holll<' wlwn slw "lun'd" him !rnck, s.iid th!' lawsuit. "TIH•y said: 'Comp 011 back, forgc:t about what happ!'llPd ... 1,pt's party,"' lawyl'r llavid Fmn111ini1H'1J said. "IJ1\ 0 S kind of' sl1Jw, 11111 t/11' most i11ll'llig,,11t guy." l'olin' arrivPd and arn•sl1•d Van I lorn along with 0111• Df' his alt.whrs. That man pl1•adPd guilty Lo assault and hallt•ry. 
Car kills bicyclist, carries body 13 miles 
/\N/\111•:IM. Cali!'. 

1\ hicvdisl was struck and ki!lcd bv ii nu­movi11g· so l'asl t.hal his l'ri<•11tls didn\ know whal happc'nPd, 1111d Ids body appai·1·nlly was rarril'd 011 1111' rnr for I:~ milt!S. /\ danmg1'd car IIC'li(•rnd lo l1,n·1• lw,,11 i11volvPd in th1· hil-and­nm acric!Pnt was li,uncl today, and police• wc•n, wPking Liu• o.,·1wr. who also may haVt' !ml'll involwd in an t\arliPr at:l'idnnt that injurPd anothc>r hicydist. John l.c1• LaBord, 18. of Ora11gl', Calif .. was struck law Sunday whill' ridi11g liis bi1·ydP ilom,.. l'nllll work. IIn had just grl'l'tl'd l'ri1•11Cls wlw Wl'rt' walking nnarhy wh(•IJ a s1rntll rnr rn11 if1Lo him. said Sgt..lop Vargas. "'Tl11• a1:cidP11l happc•nPd so quickly !Ital nohody saw what. kind ol' vnhidP ii was." Vargas said. "Tluiy lookc•d around and saw llw 1Tt1111p/1•cf IJik" ,tml a s1H•akcr. hut not llw vic­tim." hP said. l.allord's body was round 1:al'iy Monday along a highway about 1:~ miIns away. 


Dow t
AMEX: 
781JA2

JONES 
..,.09 
. 
Nasda•1:

11283.30 
ns2..n 
+32.K 
NYSE: 
63J.88 
ll.Y.1 
S&l'500: 
IJ!13.S 
Com1>ositc
+:l.2K 
Volume:
•

-16.46 6!12,300,0011 
VOlUMf UADERS 

I P)Jl'V,) IH bi H l'IUl t \Ill Ho,ut-1 ( Oki' w,tl ,,,.t,t, ~ _,;,-, ~l~ 
1H I.I. { Ull.11'ViTK flll.l ; 1 .•llt 1!!,l1.\U11 
ll"llrl.(OHI" 11'\H •11,2:J: .-11.ltiB 
\\lftU( .\ ONUNI .-.Ol. Ulllil ll!a'II 
t l'-t o ,,·1,,ll M,._ <,c H ,o.•m ~11.11.m11 
\1( I \\'OkU)C OM 1ri,. \.HOM 1J.U'il •·1.. )'UII 
ilMt "1.\IH"l!ltJfllii( l'\\J. .1.lCI ·,Ulll7:\ 
Cll!C.ltol•l•lf'lj( , 11."III +lU.'7~ 
.\1\11."li +l.1,lf~I~ 

Pntn, IN( l'H +I.IJ t11.u,o
"~l,\/0.'''U 01\1 I.~< ' +!..ll 


TURKEY 

Prime Minister Bulent on strictnr measures to tlrn United Nations to hdp Fc1wiL, whost1 government solve tlw problem. gel 45,000 body bags. has been under fire for its Despito the criticisms, Turllny's National 
ISTANUUL. Turk11y slow response to the cri­Ecevil said he has no SnnJrily Council eslimatnd 
llo 11m It\SS tHL nil qua kl! sis, acknowledged intcmtion or resigning. "01' that 200,000 people have survivDrs baltlnd to k1:np Tuesday that thorn were course lhe p1rnpl!i have the bc1nn Inn honrnlnss and am their cardboard and blan­delays in tlrn r1isc:ue right to be 1rnrvous, havn staying in tents and kPL Ll'IILS i'rom n,llapsing nfforLs. lhti right to com plai11, but makeshift slwlLr,rs. in a downpour Ttwsday, But lrn said past govern­this is a natural disaster," The death toll ros11 to and a 1rnw trPlllor 200 nwnts bear some respon­he said. 17,997 Tunsdav as morn mill's awav Sl'llt rnsidPnls si bi Ii ty l'or allowing llrn "We will enrtainly cforivo bodies wr,rn u 0 11covPnid or Ankara ·running into tlw shoddy construction that IEssons from Lim experi­from Lim wrnckagP. Sonw slrcwts in panic. contributed to llrn high ence ul' this last disaster," officials cslimaln tlw linal 
Whilt) tlw dPa1h toll l'rom dnath loll. lrn said. "We will certainly death loll could reach last w1wk's quak1' soart\<l 1111 insistnd some or Urn lw1iefil from Urn experi­40,000. Lo 1warly 18,000 peopln, delays were unavoidable ences and kn11wledg1• or Although the rPgion has tlrnrti wnrti rw r<'ports of dtw to severe damage to foreign nxperts." suffered mmrnrous quakes casualli1\s or damagns Lnltipborrns and roads from ThP relief efforts havP over tlw past cJpcadn, rrom TuPsday·s much the 7.4-magnitude quake overwhelmed Turkey, 11xp1\rts say little has bn1•11 wnak1'r l(!ll1blor. that struck bdoru dawn which has appealed for dorw lo acldross llw prob­
Thi' 4.7-magnitud(i Oil J\ug. 17. aid. including disinfoc­lems of shady contractors quakl' was cnntc1rt•d near "Mistakes have been lanLs. tetanus vaccines, w ho cl o n ' l bo l h11 r wiLh 1luymana, 40 mil11s south nwdci," Ec1)vil said in an Lunls. l'lash lights. blan knts, permits and skimp on 111' i\nkara, Llw capital. A intnrvitiw with CNN. garbagn trucks and heavy materials. or local oflicials 4.2-magnitudn aftnrshoc:k adding that the govern­machinery for clearing who don't nnf'orcn building fullow!'d. m1!nl is already working rubble. ll has a1so asked codes. 
__-_-_-_-_-_--::_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_---:::---:::---:::---:::-=-==============================-=-=-=-=-====-=-=--=--­
Federal Reserve raises interest rates 
Assodate<l Prc:ss 
WASIIINGTON 

Tlw Fnderal H<istirvP raisnd borrow­ing costs l'or millirnis of Amm-icans l'or tht~ s1~1·01Hl li11H' this sumnwr on Tunsday, boDSLing two ratt~s it con­trols by a quarter point in an cdfort I.O kenp 11m nl'onomy from overheating. 
Thn ctrntral bank said its actions "should markndly diminish tlrn risk or rising inrlation going forward" -a stat1nnonl lhal sonw in Llw llnancial markets hoµml would 1111:an Urn Fnd will slop with _just tlrn lwo ratP increases. 
Hut many privato economists said tlrny wore still looking for a third tightnning mt)VH later this yn'ar b1,causc of their vit!W thP economy is still growing morn rapidly Llrnn the Fed consid1~rs safe. 
Wall Street, after a roller-coastor al'lurnoon following Urn Fed announc1•ment, clostid wilh the Dow Jones industrial average down just 
l 6.4(J points from Monday's rncord 
high. 

But ocunomists suggostntl invustors wNe bning overly optimistic. 
"Thn market euphoria is not justi­lfod," said Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Wells Fargo in Minneapolis. "This is nol Urn nnd of thn Ft~d raLt1 hikes.., 
Whiln Sohn saicl tlw cm1tral bank could move to incniasn ratns for a third time al its next meeting on (kl. 
5. other analysts suggested the cen­tral bank will now adopt a wait-and­see stance, watching Lo see whether tho economy slows on its own. 
Thci Fed Iert its policy directive. intended to signal fulurn moves. al neutral. But analysls said this nrnanl Jillie since it had also moV<id to rrnu­tral after its lasl meeting on .Junn :rn. a change that did not slop it from raising rates this time around. 
"Tlrn market has misjudgnd the Fud's dnterrnination to right infla­tion," said David .Jorws. chin!' (1c·o110­misl at Aubroy (;, Lanston ~ Co. in New York. 
In its announc1mrnnt. tlrn Fm! said il was increasing its target for tlu~ fod­eral funds ratn, tlw interest that banks charge on overnight loans. by a quarter point to 5.25 percent. Thi' rnte had bcnn boosted -by the same amount -for Lim first time in two years on June 30. 

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wedne~day, August 25, 1999 
Poorman hopes to do this 'Tm really excited about this do a lot of listening to p1rnple, "I thoroughly enjoy our stu­through both short and long diversity education program and getting the lay of the land," dents ... 1 like living with them, I
Poorman 
term programs. lnitiativl1s this because it works peer to peer, he said. "After I do a lot of' lis­always have. I enjoy teaching 
continued from page 1 semester will include a diversity student to student," he said. "It tening then I'll probably be set­them," he said. ''My door's training program to encourage has as one of its major focuses ting a lot of my own priorities." always open and I always want students educate each other to involve the majority popula­Radical change from the poli­to hear new ideas."
Counseling Center, University 
about sensitivity and minority tion and that's really where cies of previous vice president Poorman graduated from the
Health Services, career and 
issues and a continuing focus on some of the attention has to be for Sfudent Affairs O'Hara is not University of lllinois in 1976 andplacement services and alcohol social programming that is aca­l'ocused." a priority for Poorman. Quile the received his Master of Divinityand drug education. 
demic in nature and does opposite, he praised his pre­degree from Notre Dame inHe ahm will continue to teach 
one ethics class each semester. 
Poorman expects the daily range of' concerns the office deals with will present one of his greatest challenges. 
"If you've got 10,000 people in your charge, and you've got to get them all tlrn bflst flducation possible, I think that's why it's a challenging job." he said. "It's all of the education of a student that happens outside the class­room; that's a huge purview." 
One of the things on which Poorman hopes to focus is the resid1mtial rommunity at Notre Dame. 
"One of the highest priorities I have is resid@tiality," he said. "I want to keep this a residen­tial, Catholic community, which is something very close to my heart." 
Lyphout, Malpass appointed to University officers group 
Special to The Observer 
Father Mark Poorman is not the only newly­appointed officer of the University. 
·At their April meeting, the Board of Trustees elected James Lyphout to vice president for Business Operations and Scott Malpass to vice president fur Finance. Both have served as associate vice presidents since 1996 and will continue to work with University executive vicfl president Father William Beauchamp, Notre Dame's chief linancial oflicer. 
Both will join the 12_-membcr officer's group which meets regularly to discuss issu1~s of major significance to the University. Neither post was occupied last year. 
Lyphout is responsible !'or administrative ser­vices, construction and operations and a num­
not involve alcohol. The lat-dece sso r's policies and
"One ofthe highest priorities I 
ter is a program that began expressed hope his adminis­under O'Hara·, in which the have is residentiality. I want to tration would provide conti­
University would help fund keep this a residential, Catholic nuity. 
dorm events, such as SYB.s. 
community, which is something 
taking the focus off drink­
ing. 

Increasing diversity is another challenge Poorman hopes to take on in his new role. 
"We have a ways to go on this campus with regards to diversity," said Poorman. "Both statistically ... and in program­ming." 
He complimented the Oilice of Multicultural Student Affairs on their efforts at educating the student population on diversity but acknowledged that such education works best in the day­to-day living of students. 
ber of the University's auxiliary enterprises ­such as the Morris Inn and the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. He was promoted to associ-. ate vice president for Business Operations in 1990 and has overseen 10 major construction projects since then, including stadium and Main Building renovations. 
Malpass, Notre Damu's chief investment oili­ccr, worked with the Trustees in managing the University's investment program for more than a decade. This program holds more than $2.2 billion in linancial assets. including a $1.95 bil­lion endowment -the 18th largest in American higher education. Malpass also over­sees the University's budgeting, capital plan­ning. financial reporting and student financial services activities. 
very close to my heart." 
Mark Poorman vice president for Student Affairs 

Long-term ideas for perpetu­ating Notre Dame's residential character, Poorman said, will develop as he learns the job and hears the concerns of more peo­ple on campus. He will start slowly and does not expect to make any major changes early in his tenure. 
"In the coming year, I want to 
Poorman does not antici­pate big chang1os in the University's policies on major campus issues. 
He praised the nfforts of the Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs to make Notre Dame a more welcoming place for 
homosexuals. He statnd internst in working closely with student leaders on these issues and remains open to student sugges­tions and concerns. 
Poorman will receive all reso­1utions passed by the Campus Life Council and will be a key decision-maker in many campus debates. 

1980. He was ordained a priest in the Congregation of Holy Cross in 1982 and whil!~ in the seminary served as an assistant rector in Dillon Hall. 
After ordination, he served as Dillon rector and associate director of Campus Ministry for three years before going to Berkeley, Calif. to earn a doctor­ate in Christian Ethics at the Graduate Theological Union. 
In 1990 he returned to .\Jotre Dame as a member of the theol­ogy faculty and lived in Grace Hall. In 1992 he began directing Notre Dame's Master of Divinity program and is currently an associate professor of theology focusing on Christian ethics. He was an executive assistant to the president last yfiar and received the Kaneb teaching award. 


Aman is judged by the company he keeps. 
As a Marine Corps officer, you'll be keeping some very select company. That's because you'll be serving with some of the finest officers the military has to offer. Officers that will be leading a group of men who are second to none. If you're a college student or graduate who thinks this is the kind of company he'd like to keep, see your Marine Corps Officer Selection Officer for details. 
SEE YOUR MARINE CORPS OFFICER SELECTION TEAM 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL LT. SIMEK AT 1-800-878-0241 OR 765-743-8359 SIMEKMICHAEL@HOTMAIL.COM 
MAR I N E OF f I C E R PRO G RAMS 
W'\\W.marines.com 
APPENDIX H 
NKWh1f-re-iWGtr Jf()fthtf. 
Bi~Ga1nnwfhi~v0{felhfn1W 
Chicken Ice Cream 
Join Us To Cheer On THE FIGHTING IRISH 
1Oo/6 off with student i.d. 
Stop in and enjoy a delicious, marinated chicken sandwich, a loaded hot-dog, and much more! 
Located on State Road 23, north of Angela, K's Grill & Pub wlll give you a front-row seat for this weekend's ND game, great food and a place to hang with your friends. 

.------------------~--------~-------~-----­
II 

Wednesday, August 25, l 999 
The Observer . NEWS 
page 7 

Hammes Bookstore joins forces with online bookseller 
By JOSHUA BOURGEOIS According lo O'Connor, the cfollotl.com is that it ..Hows stu­One emerging competitor for 
right now is on saving money for N~w, Wricl'r 0111i1w bookstoni has comµli­dents to purchas<>. their books the efollett.com onlilrn bookstore 
the purchase of' new books,"
mnnlnd thn currnnt bookstorn without standing in long lines. is VarsityBooks.com. The com­
Gershoni said.
instead of' laking iL-, busi1rnss. Sludnnls can purchasei their
With ttw Pnwrg<i!ll't: of many pany began in August 1998. and According to Gershoni, the
"The 0111i1w bookslorn has not books onli1m and pick the books
onli1w bookstores aimed al rnl-its business has grown each company's rnfund policy is liber­
hurt th1\ booksloni's busi111iss," up at their own buokstorn free~
1ngt! sludPnLs, llw lla11111rns semcsLer, according to commu­al and allows for any book to bn Notn~ Danrn BookstorP has said O'Connor. "llowcver, slu­of charge, or pay a low shipment nications director .Jcidi Gershoni. 
returnnd within thirty days of
dnnl buying habils (:hange 1wery cost to any deslinali\111. 
joirrnd t!f'ollell.com in prov.idi11g "(Yarsityl3ooks.com] is a better being rnceived. However, Urn
year. Some buy Llwir books early . Ono concern that may arise
studHnls with a convc:nient way to buy books bncause the student will have to pay for the
whilP olhm·t,; wail. WH'II have lo wlum purchasing books online is 
mnthod of an1uiring llwir books books urn clrnaper," said packing and shipping of the
wait and sem the numbors ovm-a the problem of rnturning the
Lhat llw Ilamnrns fods will rival Gershoni. "We guarantee that returned books if
limP span ol' two weHks," said books if a mistake is made or
otforin~!-. from lhc mmµc1lllion. our books will be shipped Lo you VarsityBooks.corn did not make
O'Connor.

Sprving rnorn than 800 col­the book is unwant<HI. Tim in one to lhref1 lrnsinoss days at a mistake in Urn shipment.
I!1) also said lhaL llwrn have i-ol'und and nxchunge policy at a llat rato ol'$4.<J5."
legcis and univorsititls, Gershoni attributns Lim suc­
IJHnn many onliim orders plucnd dolll!lt.com allows Llw student
dollnl co111 is llH• first and Although VarsityBooks.com cess of VarsityHooks.com to the
with ofollott.t:11111. 

to rnturn tlw hook al tlrn slu­
largnst 011li11c t:ollq{1: IJ11okstoni. only sells new books, Gershoni value of convenienco and Urn
"Thi:,; ~il,• has a largu avail­dnnt's local bookstore without
Ji111 O'Lo111111r, dirnnor of' said that thoy are able to pass savings on new books they pass
ability Ill' l!St)d books r.omparnd having to pack and ship the
1lnrnnws Notr·p Da!IIP Bookslorn. large savings to the students to the studnnts. Both ol'ollelt.com 
to !1llrnrs. Tlw polnnlial of 1mwantPtl books.
said llwl "working with bocausc of the low overhead 
and VarsityBooks.c:0111 give col­acquiring usNI bullks is higlwr O'Connor is optimisLic about cost.
c-1'11lit'tl.1'.11m g:iv1•s lh1: bookslorc lcgA stud11nts new options in nalional rucognilio11 while) main­wlinn buying from your own tlrn onlino bookstorn and fenls "Most students would rather purchasing their t11xtbooks and 
. institution." sairt O'Connor. 
that "the probability for success !\nothrir. advantage of is high."
taining its idc•ntity." have a new book than a used saving them both tinrn and 
one. The focus of Urn cqmpany money. 
Wolfie's 
Pasta, Sandwiches, Service & More!!! 243-9911 for FREE DELIVERY 
Open 10 am until 1 am (3 am on Fri. & Sat.) 
r-----------------,r~----------------, 
: . 2 FOOTERS : :LUNCH (1 0am ~ill 4pm): 
1 2-12" "Veggi" Sandwiches : : Coke® anEdCEhips :
You're in college now! : $9 11 FR • 
I I I I Make your own decisions! : meats & cheeses extra : : with any Sandwich purchased : 
• I EXPIRES 07/01/2000 11 EXPIRES 07/01/2000 I 
You tell us how you like your L-----------------.JL=================.J
r--~--------------,r ,
food and we deliver it to you -:LATE NIGHT (9pmti11Close):: SOUP &SALAD : , h . N D I Can of Coke® I I (small garden salad) I That s w y . otre ame : FREE : : $3.50 : 
1 W lf. ' II
oves o 1e s. I 1 . . 1 1 I • 
1w/ each mozzarella sticks or 6 wings 1 1 I I EXPIRES 07/01/2000 I I EXPIRES 07/01/2000 I
L--~----~---------~L------~~--~------J 
Subs, Hoagies or Grinders-no matter what you call it, it's still a Sandwich 
Attention SENIORS interested in the Rhodes, Marshall, and Mitchell Scholarships 
Professor Walter F. Prall, Jr. will have a final meeting to inform you of deadline dates and the application process on 
Tuesday, August 31, 1999 7:00 p.111. 129 DeBartolo 
If you me unable to attend this meeting, a sheet of information may be obtained in I 02-B O'Shaughnessy Hall after the meeting date. 
White House wins health care appeal 
Associated Press 
WASlllNGTON 

The Clinton administra­tion and former top aide Ira Magaziner did not act in "bad faith" in describing the makeup ol' Hillary H.odham Clinton's health care task force, a federal appeals court ruled. 
The U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia ruled Tuesday that the White llouse should not have to pay $285,864 legal bills for a docton;· group that sued to get access to the task force's delibera­tions and the failed effort to devise a national h1ialth care plan. 
The dispute concerns the membership and leadership of the 1992 Lask force headed by Clinton and Magaziner. 
SUNDAY

l<'RIDAY 
SATURDAY
THURSDAY

MONDAY 
TUESDAY 

WEDNESDAY 
$1 off any 
50 cents off 
Large fettucine
"2-fer Tuesday" 

Free chips w/ any 
Six wings free 
Free slaw or potato 

16-inch sandwich 
alfredo $3.99

8-inch sandwich 
2nd pasta 1/2 price! 
salad w/ any 12-inch

sandwich all day 
w/ any party sub 

page 8 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wedn~sday, August 25, 19q9 
ND, SMC welcome new Board of Trustees members 
Father David Tyson. prnsidont was also appointed LO tlw board Trumper was a member of the bachelor's degree in accounting
Special to The Observer 

of' the University of Portland in June. Madelcva Society from 1994 from Notre Dame. since 1990, was appointed in Pichler devoted several years until 1997, and has been a She is a membPr of' tl111 Colleg(~Five new members were June. 
of service to non-profit organiza-member of the Parents Council of Business Administration's n~cently appointed to the Saint 
During his presidnncy, Tyson tions' boards and as a Junior since 1994. advisory council and has served Mary's Board of' TrusteHS and has doubled the University of Grnat Books leader and librari-Carmen Murphy also hegan a as a membPr of' the board of' two recent graduates wen~ Portland's endowment, built an al inner-city schools. She is a three-year term on the board. directors of the Black Alumni ol' 
elected to seats on the Notre 

four new halls in five years, mcm!Jer of the Board of 1\-lurµhy, a lifelong resident ol' Notre lJame. Dame board. establishP-d live PndowPd chairs. TrustPes and National J\dvisorv South Bend. has volunteered in Rutrus graduated with a Senior Manuela Hernandez ea.rnecl national awards !'or Board for thn National several local organizations for degree in history, worked for was appointed to the Collegt)'s 
teaching and advising and Ullderground Railroad Freedom 20 years. formP-r Alabama Senator I lowell Board of' Trustees as Saint expanded the school by 2(> C('nter. Ang<'la Smith. and Cregory Heflin until 199!i and then Mary's Student Trust<!O. acres. ThP implementation of' Pichler gracluat(~d from Saint Butrus. both 1993 Notre Dame returned to Notre Dame for law 
llernandcz, a psychulogy Sai1il Mary's College Master Mary's with il bachelor of arts in graduates, w1-Jro elected to the school, graduating in 1998. Ile major, is currently vicn prnsi­Plan to 1'xpancl tlw campus will Engiish. Slw tlwn lrngnn t1:ach-· three-year lerms f'or young is an attorney in the utility, leg­dtint of' the Saint Marv's Psi Chi dovetail with Tyson's thrne-yoar ing English al St. Joseph lligh alumni on the Board. islative and regulatory section or 
chapter. She has 1ittnwd the 

term of service on tlw Bourd ol' School iu South Bond and also Smith is a SPcond-voar mas­the law firm ol' Balch & Binghamdesignations of Presid<•ntial Trustees. ta11ght at St. Thomas tlw Apostle ter's degreo candidate at. in Birmingham. Ala. Scholar and Distinguished Tyson served as the vic(i prnsi­lligh School, an inner-city Northwestern University's The Notre Danw Board of' 
Scholar and is a nwmber of' tho dont for student affairs at Notro Catholic all girls school. i11 Kellogg Graduatn School of Trustees now numbers 54. National I lonor Socinty. Dam!' for six years, where he Chicago. Management.: Sim rncuived a She won the "Hcmlizing Your was a faculty mnmber in CUBA Jeffery Trumper, µre:;irlent ~-------------------------. Drnams" award, the and executive assistant Lo 
and chief (!Xecutivn of' Trumper 
YOGA
Outstanding llispani1· Stuc!Pnt Father ll!isburgh. Ile is also a Commu11icatio11s, began his award, the Tri Kappa award prol'essor in th<~ Pamplin School Lhrel~-vear term in June. a11d Llrn Dr. BPnjamin Elijah ol' Business Administration. Tnunper is the l'or11rn1· presi­
Mays Educational Ext:11llenc11 Susan Pichler, a Saint Marv's dtint and g1;11eral manager of 
MONDAYS WIEDNIESDAYS
.'\ward. College alumna, Class of' '61 . WI.S-AM in Chicago. 8/30,. II 0/i I 9/11 .. 110/113 

!2: II 0 .. 112:50
7:00"' 8: I 5PM

pt•opl;; understood Llw process Some seniors found bcnnlits in 
more ·tlw new svstPm.
Tickets 
$20
$25

Students complained that the "A lott'i.iry is a goud idea," 
syste1n was Loo complicawd to Mike Cistt:rnino said. "11' tlrn stu­
continued from page 1 

undPrstand in the short time dPnt hodv lt•aders had moni period before the distribution. tinH' to U1ink it through, they
alive," Murphy said. "We an, 

TUESDAYS THURSDAYS
"!The new system] seems like_ would have had morn time tolooking forward to good things a bad way to distribute tick1:ts," iron out the wrinkles. The core
with the freshman and sopho· 

8/3 I "' II 0/II 2 9/2 .. II 0/114
off-campus S()nior Melissa idea is innovativP and tlrn camp
more classps and in the y1iars lo come." Osburn said. "IL requires much out is still them. II' tlrny weren't 
112: [ 5 ., II 2:45 5:20"6:30
more effort than is actually nec­rushed into this, the camp outMurphy's main concern was essary to distribute tickl!ls." would be better than previous
the short time they had to 

$20 $25
years."

inf'orm stud1mts. pai·ticularly "No one understands the pur­Overall, seniors seemed dis­
REGiSTRATiON
seniors. about ticket distribution pose and no one understands 
pleased with the system change.
details. what it is all about," said senior "This is a pathelic inadequa­
FOR ALL CLASSES BEGINS FRIIDAY.
"The thing we recognized Cody Rinehart. "Something has cy," said S!rnior Matt McCoyd.
would bP the hardest is the con­to change lin tlw way tickets arn 
AUGUST 27. 7:30AM IIN THE RSRC.
"There's 8 million ways Lo do
f'usi on." he said. "llowevcr, distributed I but I elem't think this through the r.oursP of the night. is the answer." 
this bcitter." 

1-61 oo WITH QUESTIONS. 
Hurry! We're overloaded with remnants! 
SCHOOL DAYS 
• ¦

So, we're practically giving them away. 
Renmants...the most economical way to carpet your dorm! Now drastically reduced to fit any budget. Don't miss this incredible chance to save! 
ALL REMNANTS DOUBLE DISCOUNTED 
50% 60~ 7Q9;oOFF 
For 2 days only 
at New York Carpet World 
STUDENTS TAKE AN ADDITIONAL 10% OFF 
EVERY REMNANT 
page 9

Wednesday, August 25, 1999 The Observer . NEWS 
The Observer returns to Web improved after reconstruction 
By !AURA ROMPi: 
N,·w, Wrilcr 
i\l'LPr a liVP•lllo11Lh n•conslrucLion, Tlll' Ohs1~rv1•r's W<•h sitn. hLLp://t1bs1·rv1,1·.11d.1ldll, is av,tilaliln unlilln. 
Till' siW i1H'l11d1,s 111•ws, sports. Vi1lwpoi11L i:0111mP11tarins and Scmw i'Pa· turPs, along willl s1ll!:rt1•d plioL11graphs and grnphics av:iilabll\ in thn nmvspupPr's daily print Pclit.irn1. IL will la1111ch ouch w1:Pkdav bPf'on• noon. 
"NolrP Danw and Saint Mary's are 11aliD11al institulions whic:h 110w havn a 111i,vsp:qwr with a national l'acn," said Obsmvnr mlitor in chin!' Michelin Krupa. "MallV dndi<:aLod studenls dovol<id hu11­d rnds.of' hours to makP this lrnpiJ('ll." 
A Loa111 ul' sLudnnts f'aciliLalod by Obsurvcr Web administrator l:rik l<ushlo n\mrHklml the sit<•. last ,H'1iV<' in 1998. 
Tlw lmi:k•ond systorn was dosignnd by Obs,)rv,\r sysLPlll adminisLraLOr .'vlikn 
Hovers and consultant Marty Hosn, a Nolrn Damp senior. 
Dnsig1wcl by s(mior Hyan l\lariotti. prnsi­dm1L of Video Design, the site will soon ind11dP special itBms like the Irish Insider football SPdio11. 
"Visitors to Tile Observer onlino will bfl abln to accriss all ol' the articlns found in thn p1·int additio11," I<.1-1shto said. "Wn will lw ·adding 1ww foatun•s to the site con­stantly bncausn our goal is to b11 tlw cen­tral inl'ormation soun:o on camµus." 
STUDENT GROUP FOOTBALL 
CONCESSION STANDS  
ADD THESE 2 THINGS TO YOUR "TO DO LIST"  
#1  Ifyou haven't already, pick up your concession stand packet in the Student Activities Office. Those who do not pick up their packets by 3:00 PM TODAY could lose their stand!  
#2  Plan to attend a Food Service Training Session  

* TODAY! 4:00 PM, ND Room (Last chance for Kansas Game!) 
* 
Thursday, Sept. 9, 4:00 PM, ND Room 

* 
Friday, Sept. 10, 4:00 PM, ND Room 

* 
Wednesday, Sept. 22, 4:00 PM, ND Room 



FOR MO RE INFO, CALL STUDENT ACTIVITIES AT 631-7309 OR VISIT US ON THE WEB: www.nd.edu./~sao/cs99/ 
Tho site will also kePp up-Lo-datn IJomers and Belles outsidt'. ThP Observ(1r's daily circulation. 
"An online site is great l'or students and faculty, but it's especially bcnclkial to update alumni. parents, prospnctivl' stu­dent.<; and student studying itbroad about campus ,wonts," said managing Pditor M. Shannon Hyan. 
"It's exciting to know that pnoplc all over tho world now will Im nmding Tim Obs1'rve1·." 
Hurricane season hits the Atlantic 
MIAMI 

Tim 1999 hurricane season was in full swing Tucisday. with threo Lrnpical storms swirling in tlrn Atlantic Or.nan. 
Tropical Storm Emily joinnd Dennis and Cindy, taking forecasters by -surprise with her strength. 
"I don't understand what's happening out there, but things am popping," said .Jerry Jarrell. director of' the National 1lurricane Cenwr in Miami. 
The government of' the Bahamas issued a tropical storm warning Tuesday !'or the Turks and Caicos Islands and for the southeaswrn Bahamas. 
Tropical Storm Dennis could tlm1aton the eastern Lnitml Statns as narly as Friday. At 2 a.m. Wednnsday, Dt>.nnis was co11ton1d about 75 milos north of' l.lw Caicos islands. 
Best Price, Quality & Selection. 

Futon Factory Futons are the Smart Choice for Back-to-School 
--Futons to fit every room and budget. --Financing & delivery options available. --Close to campus! --Over 500 futon cover fabrics available. --Futon covers start at $39. --8 futon mattress grades. --Over 20 different frame styles fit every decor. --Home accessories & more. --Futon specialists since 1991 .' 

Shop The Midwest's largest Futon Retailer! 
FUTON FACTORYr------0-------7 
SOFA BY DAY BED BY I
NIGHTI/, 1 ~nqi~~ckQEf
5632 Graoe Road I FUTON with the ourchase of afuton & frame I 
On Grape Road behin~ Pier One Imports I FACTORY Coupon expires fo/1 /99. Not ~alid with any other discount or offer. I 
rnFA BY DAY Coupon must be presented at time of purchase. Layaways and previ­
219 273 2660 
-• 


page I 0 

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, August 25, 1999 
CIRCUITCITY We'll Help You lflleet Your College Requirements 


SONY 
CD Boombox 
with AM/FM Tuner & Mega Boss'" CFDVI 7SILVER 
s5999 
3.6 Cu. Ft. Counter-High

Compact Refrigerator '149"-'10 Mfr. Mall.n lobatt ='139" Sll361W 

GolclStar 


$6999
0.7 Cu. Ft. 700-Watt Microwave q,~f 
I" '!:', r,,
MA/SOM 


•The Year's Most 
Winning Comedy!" 

Portable CD Player with Heat-Resistant Lid 
AJ:778111 Sl5261C 




There's s139s R h H $ 99 Swingers $799
Something us our 7 
About Mary 

Austin 
$""799 The 
Silence $799 Risky s499

Powers I Of The Lambs 

Business 
Surrender /ulro 
lounge 




Our Low Price Guarantee  
For every product we se0, we'll bea1 any price from alocal store stocking the some new ttem, available for sole with  
amanufacturer's wmranty and in afactory-sealed box. Even after your purchase,~ you find a lower price wilhin  
'  30 days, induding our own sole prices, we'M refund 110% of the difference.  
I I  (kir law !'rile GIJJIQlltee does not aoolv when the compatitr/1 (lice inwdes bonus or free offen, Sll8DOI fi11111dn11, installation or rebota, _,__..,_r.tl ll!Qf 111 to -I-a-kind or other !imited 0~811. FO!cel!tMI poones and Plll)Ors, our low Prka Guarantee applies to hcrdwareorly, pro.idadthm 0,,,,-:i••!i',l fiii!pil,:;:, ~-­Iha (l)fflpetllol's sem l)l'O¥iool, 11rwe plans, terms mid rondilor6 are the some. ~..UL;J '.~  
I  
If.  
'  

Prices effective through 8/28/99. 

CIRCUITClff. 
Price • Selection • Service 
Call 1-800-284-4886 for store nearest you. shop online at www.circuitcity.com 

.... .........----..-.-----------------11"::.----.-:.~------------~--------------·~------­
Wednesday, August 2 5, 1999 The Observer . NEWS page 11 
Maryland teen will plead guilty in racial murder 
amp__us. com 
Associated Press 
HOCKVIII.I•:, Md. 

i\ Maryland lHPnug1q-accusod or killiug and dis11w111boring an acquai11­larH:<! will plciad guilty to murdor in a Tel Aviv courtroom nr.xt woek in a casu that causod an inlornatioual dispute ovnr jurisdidion and outragnd J\nwrican prosncutors and mllmbors of' Ccm~rm,s. 
SamlHd Slrninbein. 19, l'lt:d to lsrat>I two y1wrs ago to nscnpti Maryland mur-
Palestinian offi ci a I said
COJ41 OUT TO THI ALUJ4MI IIMIOR 
Tuesday. Palestinian National Council chairman Salim Zaanoun said
CLUB TO.MIGHT. 
Lim anli-lsraci groups llamas and tlrn Islamic Jihad had lmnn invil<!d, along with !'LO factions lhal hav1~ been in a rivalrv with Palestinian leadtir Y~sscr 
/\ral'ul.
THI OML~ PLACE TO GO 
"We huvo called a nwcling in tlrn West Bank to start a com­
prehensive national dialogue with all the factions and will f'orm a comm iltee to discuss the idea of national dialogue with llamas and the Islamic Jihad," Zaanoun told the 
OM A WIDMIIDA~ MIGHT. 
PAR,T~ IT4RTI @ 9PJ4 
Palestinian news servicn, WAFA. 130th groups oppose the peacti process with Israel and 
Jh 
an 
On 

Internet banking Checking account Overdraft protection ATM / Debit card 
Questions? Call us at 258-3150, or e-mail us at BankOnCampus@lstsource.com. 
dnr charg1:s in tlrn dnath ot' J\lfrodo Tello, also l '). The killing also roiled Maryland Latinos. who accusPd prose­cu to rs of ncgligun1:o in allowing Slwinbcin to 1iscap1i 
Und<'r torms of a plou agrncmcnt annuuncnd Tuesday by Maryland State's /\ttornoy Douglas Gansler, Israeli prose­cu lors and lawynrs for Slrninbein will rncommend a 2·4-yuar sentence for the Lmm. who would bo l~ligibl(J for parole al't<•r sorving about 16 years -or two­thirds of his senlenco. Ile could leave 
• 

Full service, on-line banking designed especially for college students! 
Whether you're on a MAC or a PC, our easy-to­use interface makes banking on the Internet a snap. Visit us online at www.bankoncampus.com to find out how you can benefit from this innovative account 
,II/A source~ 
liiiiBank 
prison on w1rnk1md furloughs in four years. 
Last month Sheinbein pleaded inno­cent in an Israeli court. !do Baum, spokesman for Israel's Justice Ministry, confirmed th•i agroement but said he had requested the Americans withhold disclosure until Sept. 2, when Sheinbein is scheduled to <mfrr his plea in court. 
Eitan Maoz, an attorney for Sheinbein, rel'ust1d to comment other than to say that any developments in tho case would be heard at the court appearance 
PALESTINE 
Hamas invited to Gaza peace talks 
. Group says it will not change its position 
Associated Press 
GAZA CITY 

Tho Palestinian Authority has invited radical Islamic groups to participate in unity talks in the West Bank un August 31, a 
Member FDIC 
next week. 

Sheinbein, who claims Israeli citizen­ship through his Israeli-born father, will serve his sentence in Israel. 
'J'cllo's burned and disnrnmburnd body was found in an empty garage near Sheinbein's home in Aspen llill, Md., on Sept. 18, 1997. Sheinbein lled lo Israel several days later. 
The killing, and artnrward Sheinbein's night to {srael. raised a l'uror among Maryland's numerous Hispanic organi­zations. 
have taken responsibility for attacks that have killed scores of people. 
llamas spokesman Mahmoud Zahar said hP had not learned of' the invitation yet. 
lie said the group would only agree to alttrnd the talks if they did not deal with thti peace process 1.rntwrnrn lsratd 
and  thn  Palestinians  that  
began  with tlrn  199:1  Oslo  
agreement.  

"Tlw Ilamas position is clear that any dialogue linked to Oslo or aiming to support Oslo and its obligations it is unac­ceptable by llamas," Zahar said. But llamas would wel­co1111! efforts for true Pa!Pstinian unity "to achievn Palestinian national intnr­1ists," he ttdded. 
Spokesmen for the much small 11r Islamic .Ii had wtlrn unavailable for comment. 
Arafat has nwt in tlrn past weeks with tlw two main 1'1.0 factions that split with him ovnr his signing of the Oslo accords in a bid to rally tlwm behind him as he enters negii­tia ti on s with lsra1d over a l'inal pnac1~ deal. 
Read the Observer. 
Recycle it. 
Then 
have 
a 
•
nice 
day. 




page 12 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, August 25, 1999 
WE WANT TO KNOW: 
WHAT DO YOU THINK 
NOTRE DAME'S POLICY REGARDING SWEATSHOPS 
OUGHT TOBE? 
Attend the Symposium/Course 
"CATHOLIC TEACHING, SWEATSHOPS, AND NOTRE DAME" 
This is a symposium open to the entire community and also a course that students may take for credit (CST 303; IIPS 481; Theo 381 for one credit; by arrangement with Professor Todd 
Whitmore for three credits). No prerequisites. Requirement: a paper answering the question: 
"What should Notre Dame's policies be regarding the workplace practices of its licensees?" 
Select Monday evenings, 7:00-8:30 at the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
September 13: Topic: The Major Actors in the Sweatshop Debate Presenters: Carol Kaesebier, General Counsel, UND; Fair Labor Association William Hoye, Counsel, UND; Chair, Task Force, UND 
September 27: Topic: Catholic Teaching and Sweatshops Presenters: James Keady, Former Assistant Soccer Coach, St. John's University (Resigned due to St. John's association with Nike) Todd David Whitmore, UND Task Force 
October 4: Topic: Public Disclosure of Workplace Sites Presenter: Michael Posner, Lawyer's Committee on Human Rights 
October 25: Topic: Monitoring the Workplaces Presenters: Randy Rankin, Partner, Price Waterhouse Coopers LLP David Schilling, Interfaith Center for Corporate Responsibility 
November 8: Topic: The Student Movement Presenters: TBA 
November 22: Topic: The Prospect ofa Living Wage Presenters: Christine Firer Hinze, Marquette University, author, "Making a Good Living: Rethinking the Family Wage in the Twentieth Century" (forthcoming). Todd David Whitmore, UND Task Force 
For further infonnation contact Professor Todd Whitmore: Whitmore. l@nd.edu Sponsors: University Task Force on Anti-Sweatshop Initiatives, Program in Catholic Social Tradition, Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, Department of Theology 
WcJnesday, August 25, 1999 The Observer . GOVERNMENT NEWS page 13 
Department denies officer was forced out 
Associated Pre.i;s 
WASlllNCTON 

i\ l'ornwr inl!dlignncll olTicnr who Lriggnrnc.l an inv11st.iga­lion into allognd ChinosP nudoar spying, Llwn rnsig11od this wcrnk, "in no sense was J'orcc)d out" of' Lim Enorgy l)ppartmcrnL. tlrn dnpart11rn11t said Tunsday. 
llndnrsncrPtary Er111\st Moniz arknowl1\dged that. Urn ·ol'f'i<'.t\l', Notra Trulo<"k, no longcH· was involvBd in Llw Lhrc•P-your ospionag,1 i11v<isti­galio11 tlw los i\lamos. N.M., w11ap11ns laboratory wlw11 lw nisigrwd Monday. But Moniz s a i cl as Llw a c: ting cl<' p u Ly chic11' of' till' int1\lligP11c·n olTic<), Trulork 11or111ally would not haw hnt'll still i11volv<'d. 
i\ ,·.ar1\11r 1:ivil servant. Tn1lorl,; n•sigrwd Monday and within 24 hours was worki11g f'or a privaLP c·onlractor 1-1!1 told s11v11ral 11Pwspap1lrs lw lcirt Lim l•:1wrgy llBpartnwnl h Pc au sC) hP was lw i11 g squc•nzc•d out ol' tlrn Los i\ Iam o s i11 v11 stigat io 11 that involvns Taiwan-born scion­List Wm1 Ilo l.1w. 
U11dPr a prnsidn11tial dirnc­tiw issund in 1:arly 1998, Lim dnparlnrnnt lT<:awd a s1:pa­rnlc: ol'fico !'or t:ounwrintPlli­gcrncn. lwacfod by a vPtnran FBI ol'fic:ial who rnµorting dirnl'lly lo l•:rwrgy Socrnlary Bill Hidiardson. to dc•al with invnsligutions suc:h as thP l.os i\lamos c:asf'. Tlw inwlligrnu:1\ orlk11, wlwr11 Trulock worknd. had otlwr dutins. Moniz said. 
"llf: c,:rtainly was in 110 snnsc• forc·pd out ol' lhP l>eparlnrnnL ol' Entirgy," saic.l Moniz. !lo said Trulock was "given evnry 01>portu11ity" tu 1:011tinuP as deputy chiof' in the intelligcmcn ol'fic:!l but did not want Lhe No. 2 spot. 
Trulock was dnmotcd l'rom chiol' lo acting dopuly chiof' wlrnn Hichardson canrn into Lim dnparlmc:nt Jato lasL ynar. l!ic:hardson namcc.l as tho oJTic:n's lwad Larry Sanc:lrnz, a Cli\ ort'icnr who worked w il h hi Ill a L l ht' U n it!\ d Nations. Moniz said Sanchez lriocl lo ki:op Trulot:k on as his cfoputy, but Trulock said 
110. 

Trul<1t:k did 11ot rntur11 scv­nral L<dnphorw calls Tuosday. 
Tho dnpartnrnnl said in a statnmont that Trulock pro­viclnd "a most valuabln snr­vic:P" in his rrnrsistcmt pursuit or Lill' spy isSUP. and liic:ltardso11 Wi!S disitppoi11l1:d by his d11parture. Hidiardson gav<' Trulock a $ I0,000 ar.hicvnnwnt award this ynar. . Cilml by so111n nrnmbors ol' C:ongrt\SS as a lrnrn l'or µress­i11g as narly as 1995 his sus­picions that nudnar sncrnts had bnen stolon, Trulock also has conrn undnr criticism in recnnt months. 
Trulock was rnbukod shurply in .I une by l'orm,ir Sl\ll. Warron Hudmun of' New 11 a m p s h irn w l1e n Im co m­plai1wcl about tho President's Fornign lntdligcncc: Advisory Board rnport on socurity at thn dPpartnrnnt. Tim panel. hnud1:d by Hudman. rncom­mnrHlnd among other things that Trulol'k's o!Ticn bc: abol­islwd in a rostructuring or Lim d11partnwnl. 
Missile testing moves to next step 
Associated Pres; 
' 
WASIIINGTON 
The l'entugon on Tuesday defondnd its decision to stop testing and movB lO the next stage in dnvnloping a missile intnrceptor arter six failures worn followed by two suc­cossos. Ono scrnior official had rocommnnded further tnsling. 
Tho Army announced last w1Hik that il was ending tests on an cxpnrirnm1lal VRrsion ol' its $15.4 billion Theater II igh i\lt.itudn i\rou Defense, or TIIAi\D, systnm, satisfied that it had resolved most ol' tlrn problems that plagufld thn f'irsl six tests. 
Instead of' conducting another test of the prototyµo missiltl lator this year, tlrn Army's contractor, Lockhood Martin Corp .. will hngin <? 11 g iIW <? I' i11 g a Ill O r 0 advancnd vnrsion lo be l'ield­nd by Urn Army in 2007. 
Thc illtl)rceµtor is an early vnrsion of' a far morn umbi­tious program designed lo oventually µroWct Lim entire nation f'rom incoming mis­siles. 
The decision Lo move alrn ad was made over the objections of' Philip Coyl·c, director of' operational test and evaluation for the Pnntagon. 
Coyle. commenting in the current issue of Defense Wouk, a trade publication, said thn two successf'ul !1ight ttisls, carried out at the i\rmy's Whitci Sands Missile his recommtrndalion will Hange in New Mexico, dif­always be follnwnd, she said. fered from conditions of' a .lust last Friday, the real attack. Pentagon announced its 

The flight test was "shaped decision to movn ahead with­and script11d" so the collision out further tests at this limn would occur in a relatively and to drop an earlier self'­small area or the sky and so imposed requirement that tlrn debris would nol !'all in the Tlli\AD system score areas where it might do three sucC11ssf'ul intercnpts in damage, 11igh l. Aftllr six he said. failures in a
"We stand by what we
He said row, tlrn anti­Ill O r e have said in the past. " missile record­realistic ed its l'irst suc­t e s l s cess in Junr.,
Cheryl Irwin

could bn l'ollowcHI by
Pentagon spokeswoman
obtained another Aug. 
ii' moved to th n larger Kw;ijalein Missile Hange in the Marshall Islands. Such additional t1)sts should be made bnl'orn the Pentagon awards tlw con­tract for the final phasn to Lockheed, Im said. 
Coyle was out of' town and his of'l'ice said he was unavailable !'or comment on his statements, which canrn in responsCl to wrillc'n ques­tions submitted by Defense Week. 
But a Pentagon spokes­woman, Cheryl Irwin, said Tuesday that the Pentagon believes there is ample evi­
c.l e nct~ to support moving ahead to the next phase without another tesl. "We stand by what we have said in tho past," she said. 
As to Coyle, she said, "That's his job. His job is to give his opinion." That doesn't mean, however, that 
2. 

TIIAAD is tlrn cenuirpieco of the Defense Department's effort to provide missile prntectiun abroad for U.S. and allied 
troops  and  t Im i r  stagi n g  
areas.  
It is expected  to  comple­ 

mnnl tlw. sliorter-range Patriot. :-1 missiln, the lalnst vorsion of the missile used against Iraqi Scud missiles in the 1991 Persian Gull' War. 
Army Maj. (;en. Peter Franklin, deputy director ol' the Ballistic Missile Defonse Organization, said Friday that the main reason f'or moving ahead with TIIAi\D after two successes instead of three is to force Lockheed to focus on J.he missile inter­ceptor that will actually be fielded. rather than the pro­totype used th us far. The two successful tests this summer have proven the missile works, he said. 
eack To.School $ale 

Internet Ready High Speed Budget 
Laptops Bundle 
Multimedia PC 
Internet/Network Ready 
$250 & up 486 to Pentium II
$895$295 
$595 
1 yr. warranty Pentium 200MMX • 32 meg 
K6II/450 • 64 meg Internal CD 
6.4 Gig • 40XCD 3D video 8 meg AGP 
4Gig • 40XCD Computers $50 & up 
Built-in Sound Internal Soundcard Sound • 56K Modem
Modem 

56KModem 
l7'' Monitors $35 & up 
Network Card 10/100
Win95 • Monitor Win95 •·Ms Office 

14"&15" -$25 & up Printer 
Win95 • MS Office 
Monitor 
Monitor 
Printers -$5 & up I yr. warranty 1 yr. warranty 
1 yr. warranty 
Network computers allow you to access the ND Network to: 
j

* 
Lookup Homework * Lookup Syllabus * Do Homework 

* 
Send Email * Lookup Lecture Notes * Access Web Network cards available for any computer -also sold separately 


'~·
~;::~.­

r-----------------------1 IBM : $25 Coupon :
, 111C.. K__ SDN iHEWITT-"' 
~ ---•TAX SlHVICI "' 
Hewlett Packard : Bring this coupon in for $25 off any 586 system while : rr h"b I supplies last. Our last sale we sold out ofour used I
South Bend-South South Bend-West 
Compaq • .J OS l a I systems within the first two days so don't wait. I 4331 Western Ave. 
908 E. Ireland Rd. 
Sony • Many More : Excludes Budget Bundle computer. : 
(Plaza west of Long John Silvers)(Martin's/Osco Plaza) 
299-8070
282-1040 

:_$2 5 _ E.:r~es S3)tember 4, \ 999 __ $2 5 : 

,----­
page 14 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, Augus, 2">. 19.,99 

Home Improvement Warehouse 
Cu.Ft. 

$8800 
Compact Refrigerator 

•1 
cabinet shelf •1½ door shelves with retaining rod 

•.21 
cu. ft. freezer (TAXZSNXWN) #54923 


Through Handle 
1" X 12" X 5u Laundry Basket 
$397
•White •Reach through ­
All-Purpose Whitewood Board 
handlee; for easy li~ing #33264
SJ696 

•#3 grade ~oard #01368 

$179 

19" Color TV 
•Smart 
Sound'" 

•Smart 
Picture'" 

•Trilingual 
on-screen displaye; •Autochan­nel programming (19PR15C) #31238 


GoldStar· 

M:astor.Locl<.
Home Away $6996 
$349
From Home 
.7 Cu. Ft. Microwave Oven 
1%" Combination
Lowe's has everylhing you need •700 watts •Turntable •10 power 
Padlock 

to make your dorm fool like home! levels •Auto weight defrost •3 
•Stainless steel

one-touch categories #57941 
case #60070 

Lowe's of South Bend/Mishawaka 4660 North Grape Road 272-0900 
VISIT OUR WEBSITE! 10% PRICE GUARANTEE Mon.-Sat. 7am -9pm PLANT GUARANTEE QZMt+iM:l!J13'Hit•1Z¦ 
Our aword--winning website is a great ~If you happen to find a lower We guarantee your tree, houseplant or shrub wilt Over 40,000 items in stock. source for how:to lips, NASCAR news, lawn price we'll match it, PLUS toke Sunday Zam -6pm live or we'll replace it FREE for up to one year! We hove everything for every project, ond gorden index and more! off an additional 10%! 

•we guaran~ oµr t¥11,rJdllJ wrrip~prlc;(!~tf;;tl)-i flt!J 111 ~rOYtt')'d.ll'J or.A,iwH·tj&~ price on an idant-lG.11I •t-0ck i"tam st "'":i ~;.llre-t,ail i:omp,e-t.it.orthst. h;11• the l"m In i,t,<x;k, -11 t>-t-tti.,lr p~c: pY10,. whi,nyou buy from Ul!t Juottlrl~ uo t-hclXlm_peirtcr'iic:u•~ni, i'l . .::I, orM:'11 iiJ.11 t-ow:rtfyme Item'• prlci: th.n,:,01.1 have fou.nd.Catthh:harge i;.ard.and e;arry purcMaot• Ol"I~. ~om~c:IMl!I01.tt, ep~! order, tlll!Jl':ontl-ftl.l&o::i, dea!Wln~. l!qult.latlon .snd i:fam~M ttem11 an! lllllClutleii from Ulhl offer: limlt&f to !'Nl'!On•We t:tus11tielee mt' t-iomeowr,er and Ol'!it-llot.J•l!' ord!lf qu•rTtlcil!le fflr t:Hh and Ul'T)' eont,act.:,I"'!!. Culff!lt i"·eton1 ptk:l!', if lower, overrld&e L~'6 'IJdW1rciud prlee. Pl-Ice 9u11ra"Ua'l kol'IOMd at all ~·• ~!I IDcatloni,. Labor i:ha1111111 fcir pro4t,1ct,. 111111.;aHatiOfl 1119 nol<J~~ from our prti::e f U4,a,r1k!t1 ttfftW In our-•t4rll• with 1111 lnoc.alltt,l S.leti rrog,..m. V.11111; 11tt.oh! for corr1plei. ·dst.allfl Priue May \&Ir:, Afur Aueu•t 2. 1999. If Tl,,,:r-t11 Ard Mark4 'hlriatlon., ·5• Si:c111 For Det:all11 R:aprdltia fra4uc:t; Wa,,..Mi11t,. We R,t1e"1e The Rl9ht. To Limit Quantit;.IH. 
S,~! Out• •iw pl"#uct:111 it-lG...,. haw i>etsl'I al7le to obtain at an ~nulltUIII!!~ law pnGol! m,,... our 111uppller for a •pelfl,:; ciu,¦Mtity or fur a llmit&d Urne. al'VI >119 p•u t.h~ --~• "" tc -you. We make tloiWJ effort to Ii.ave e1JMc:lentc '\.1u1r1Wt,is,; 011 han.:I to m9m. ft!<Utonal11t antklpatM der,,and. 5pi,dal euy prlc:e "'10 lons.sr appli.se onu itioee quantltlati •~ ohauet.ed. "'Proti,eetona! lnittallatoi thr~l'I McenHd 11o11t,contnlict.ore.. L.OliwS'e c;cnW!lc;t,or-ltCNhW'I numbl!l,w: Cf#HICoo&.>816-2; HtCJ.I.C05'1-46&: MO#t.AHIC 50931: Ml #Cli'.1'2102.-1444"16; IL PIL11n1Jel" #05a-1001+0; fN#H!30?"0 atwl 16066. l.owl'• Home CanU,., 1!11;~ 6122 •a~ Olive NorU,, e.ittk! Gmflk. Ml 49014-, 
•lmt,le'•• Homes Content. Ina. 1989 toww"•• I•• reefewnsd tade!Nrlc of tF c:orpor.i:lon 12662·8 
~ 
VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, August 25, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
1'.l l. Ho, q. No11c l>.11110, !N 4ll'i'>C, W '!) 1,_\i .7~71 
EllllOII IN Cilll'.I· Mid1dlc Knip,1 

MANAl:IN(; El" ron  HIISINF~S MANi\l;J•I{  
:vt. Sli.m111111 Ry.111  David Rul,\cr<>  
AWi. MANACII\'(; EtllTOll  
l.a111.1 l'e,dl,,  
NF.W~ b>JTOll:  t'i111 101,,111  

VirWPCllNT Ellln>ll: ( .nlle,·11 t :.1ughe11 Sl'wns Eunott: B11,111 l\.e»k·r Sl'ENI· Ell!TOlt: Midwcl Vancga, SA1:-n MA11Y's Euntm: N,m·rn Cilbpic ('Jl(rro E111nm: K,·vin lJ.al,1111 
AllVElrllSINC MANACl:R: Bryan I 11rz 
Au llf.,1<;N MAMl,rn: llrc1 l !ud.1r SY.HEMS AliMINISTJII\TOII: M1d1ad l<cVt'fS WI•.ll ADMINISTIUTOI!: i'.rik Kushto 
CoN·rno11.n1: nmorhy l..111" Cn,\l'IIIC\ ElllTOH: '"" Mudlt1 
CONTACT Us 
(hi IU. MANAt.1-.11/(;n-a.HAI. INI 0 .............l,.l 1•7471 l'AX.. ...·········•·· ... ..........................f,.11-6')./.7 /\1,v11rn,1N1;.. . . ...(d l-/i'JOOIKH40 
i>h,,..-rv~·r("'d,11wi11.1..(.11t.l.l·"-! u Elltllllt IN C111n... . ... (,11-4~41 MANA(aN<, tlllTOn/A~H. ME.................Id 1-4'\4 I Ut1SINF$S 0!'FICI .......................... ,..........(,.\ \ .~j I.\ Ni-w, . . .......................... r,J 1-'i.\2.1 
ob.,t·r,·~·r.uhsnl·w:-.. 1Ci:11nd.l'du Vll-.Wl'OIN I ......................... : ............. (,.\1-~.-l0:1 oh:it'l'VL'r.vil'w!mi111. 1~1)nd.l·lill Sl'OltTS... ...........6.ll-4'i•H 
~1h:-.L'l'\'L'r.~porh. 1~1111d.niu 

Sc.ENI .................... .................(,\ l-4'i4!1 oh~L'f\'L'l" ..,CL'llL'. I ~11m!.t.:Llu SAINT MAIIY'S.... .......................fd 1-4.\24 obsn,1.:1.~111{. 10)nd.c.du l'mrro ...(i.\ 1-~7(,7 SY'iTEM~/Wrn ADM INI.HRi\TOII .................(1.\ I-88.l') 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
V1,11 our Wrh ,iH· at h1rp:ll11h,m•er.11d.rd11 ti11 d.1ily upd.ut·, of camp11-" m·w~. sport,, fi.·,1run.·s ;11id np1 nion Loium!l:ii, J."i wdl ,t!-> c.ir1oorni, rl'view."i illHI hn.:aking !lt'WS hom thr A,.,tH.:i.unl Pn:~\. · 
SlJRF TO: 
weatl,cr t{u· up-lo-d1'-· 
movies/mu5ic for 

lllillllll' ti1ll"lilS{!'I 
wcL"kly smdl.'Ul rt:'vicw~ 

advertise t~u· 11ci!iriL·~ 
onJinc il.'atures !'ur '.'IJK'­

• ,ml r:1ct·.,ofpri11c,1eb 
l'.i,ll ,.:ampu~ covt.·ragt: 

archives to :i1.·ard1 fi.>r 
aboul The Observer 
w nwct dw l·dirnr.-; and

.m icb p11hlishni ;if1<·1 
;\11g11.,1 ]')')<) 
st:iff 

POLICIES 
l'h,· l ll1'en1·1 i, rlw i11dq>c11de111. d;iily 11cws1>apn puhlisltnl i11 p1111r .111cl 011li11.-hy th,· .srndrnt.s ol th,· Univcrsitl' 11f Nmrc l l,um· du Lie ;iml Saint lvLuy·, ( '.ullq~l'. f.-.ditn1'i.1I ro11t1.·nt i~ nm govL·rm:d hy policies of du: ,1dmi11i:-,u~1tion ofl·trh,.:r i11:>iriuaio11. Acring ~\!'! pub­li.,hct 11ITl1,· Uh>t·rvcr. the ,1d111i11ist1atio11 .,f rl1<· UJ11vc"itv ul Nmre I );m1<· du l..1e prohibit, the ,1dwr­t1><·111e1u ot ;ilwhol .111<1 Tlw ( Jhscrvds ,ll'(c·pt;lllt'l' or .1dvnri'i.tllll'llt\ fn1m ~1wciticd rypt."S of group~. 
rlw mw, ts rcponed .ts .1ce11ra,cli' and ohjcrnvd1 as pmsihk-. Uusig1ml editorials represent thr opinion of th.-111;11,>rity 111 rhc blirur i11 Chid: M;maging Fdirur. A"istant Managing 1-:tliror and ,k-p.mmrnt nlitors. ( \,rnmentaril':-i, lL·ttL'r~ .md columns pn:se1u d1L· views of ,lie .1urhor, .111,l mH 11cn·ssarily those uflhc ( lhst·tvtr. Vic"\vpoilll space is ;1v;1ilabk mall reader,. Tlw frcr cxpr,·ssio11 of all opinion., through lcrrcrs is 
l"ll({)lll'..tg_l'd. 
Q1m1ir,m l'l'!f.1mfi11J ( )f,mn·r f111firiei 5'11111/d /,r• tlirra­,dto 1-,/itm· 111 <.'l11,jlt-/i.l1dl1• l<mp,1. 
DILBERT 
~B_l_G_5T_U_B_B_OR_N_O_U_l"\_B_G_U_'<_,~
...--------""" ! 
WE. SHOULD REMOVE r 
O
THE BSERVER page 15 
! ' ..... .....
1...,·,

J_.,1-·;........... .',;.'.',,.,. '1~"·:·J' ,,,....•.<.::,..--.;:. ·,:-:·,
• 'W:~ -,.'·, ":•~-.:'.' ~.,· ., ....
'lo.,...... •••. 

~~ 
• s' 
·::i fume.whepe in ,.N'estdie$te.r> 
1,:.~:IJ L~-·~~~~"'l""l': ' 

... ._,~ • J '"' • "' 
-~-.-..• f,.,•~..,,.... "':,','fi_ r~, ·
~;.. '/ ..,,r:•--~~».....,.,:
• .• • ... ..,,...,. 1· l 
l. • '' ._.._/\·"';;..._\ ~•.,_ 
.._11,,~_\.,-.; ..._'-,, ... ' 
~.::,, }'! 
•.-. • I . 
. l 
i 
-
. ·--..­
:::.-.~:>>,.
. 

1..._. • ~­
,...{".";--~: -.: -~.-z-.,: m?-:. ·\:.:! :'~~ f•...} I ~~~1:Jf: ,)'1i::.-).,t;J. •~•~:'"JJ. I 
.•••.•;.·.-.·.,.:.·.. 1,
i111. ~, ~ 

~L 
ct circa 2001 :::. ti 
---~•,;l 
,,.. j• •,,,,_.,/' L"•' ,!.~•.•,X 
~ ~ ' 

J • ~tc :~:.lt:•·:t~ 
•• , i'\ • t • I ••
1 

, ·• /1 •-. . i ,t .. ~. l'!t., . 1,·.: ,I 1.•· 
l ',•.

•' <.:.-,.l ./'ti\~
7° ~ ;,...._-. '~-j.J,­
ll 

The Observer Viewpoint Policies 
Anyone is welconw lo submit lfilllffs to Urn Pditor, quoll!S, pomns to Lim Vinwpoint chiparlnrnnl llf The Observer. ltmns submitted by members of tlrn Notre Danrn and Saint l\lary's commu• nity will b,i given prnforenc11 l'or publi­cation. 
The opinions l!Xprnssed in the Viewpoint s1wilon am not necessarily those ol"Tlw Observer. B,,gular colum­nisls. those whose columns appear on a regular basis; gunst columnists, those whosn 1:olumns do not appear on a reg­ular basis; luttnrs to lhn ndilor; poems and quolf1s am commentaries. 
Unsigned odilorials rnprnsent the opinion of' Lim majority or the editor in chic)f, managing c~ditor, assistant man• aging mlitor and dep,trtment editors. Tlw I lousP Editorial Guidnlines are induch!d in the llouse Editorial Policy. 
All commfrntarios submitted to The Obsnrvnr must include the signaturn and plione number ol' the author. Letters to tlrn editor may not exn)Pd :~:iO words and columns· may not cxcnod 800 words. Exniptiuns arc made1 at the discretion of the Viewpoint ediior. The Viewpoint editor may short­en any liittnr or column regardless of lnngth or deem it worthy or print in its entirety. 
i\11 material submitted lo the Viewpuint department becomes the prop11rty ol'Tlrn Observer. Any further use or tlrnsc commmllaries without the written consent of The Observer is pro· hibitml. Nol•l'or-prntit organizations, thosti organizations whid1 havH a rnd­procal usag11 agrnonwnt and those organizations uf which The Observer is a member may be granted permission to publish commentaries with the per­mission of the editor in chief or the permission of tlrn Managing nditor and the Viewpoint nditor. 
The Viewpoint department reserves the right to edit all commentaries. The Observer has no obligation to print submitted commentaries. Such works will not be printed if they are libelous, unintelligible or irrelevant. 
Relevance will be determined with respect to interest of a particular issue on a local, national, or world level, nxtm1sion ol' existing issues on the Viewpoint pages, and/or role in foster­ing spirited and intelligent discussion. A disclaimer will appear with any letter deemed highly graphic, profane or dis• criminatory, yet nonetheless relevant. The disclaimer will appmtr at the beginning or the letter and will alert readers to the serious nature or the piece in question. 
Commentaries submitted as letters to the editor may not exceed three in number from the same individual or organization within the same academic semester. Them is no limit lo the num­ber of times an individual or organiza• lion may have their commnntaries ap­pear in print as columnists. 
All commentaries printed in the Viewpoint section must be verified before publication: It is not guaranteed that authors of columns, letters to the editor, quotes and poems will be 1wti­
find before their work is printed in Tim Observer. 
Only those individuals authorized to speak as rnprnsentalives for a group will be allowed to ·use tlw organiza­tion's name. In such cases, the primary author(s) of the comnrnntary is (are) the individual(s), and the commentary is, in effect, co-signed by tlrn organiza­tion. 
Commentaries which appear in the Viewpoint section may not have been printed previously in other nnws­papers. magazines or publications. In exceptions. the author of' the prnviously printed material must gi.ve legal, writ­tern consent. Work from organizations of which The Observer is a member, quotations used for commentaries, "Quote of the Day" and syndicated columns are excluded from this proce­dure. 
Paid employens of The Observer are not permitted to have their commen­taries appear in the Viewpoint section as letters to the editor. Regular colum­nists and members of the Viewpoint staff also are not eligible to have their commentaries appear in the Viewpoint section as letters to the editor. Tlw sta­tus or such individuals is determined by the Viewpoint editor. 
Any questions or concerns regarding The Observer Viewpoint policies should bn directed lo Urn Viewpoint editor. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
r::~~~~::::::::::::-,yr:=========:--i Ur'\ ... TH~ NE.ED ! THI5 15 WHEN YOU TH~T INFORl"\ATION j AGREE. W"!TH f'I\E AND TO 00 ,HE.IR :roes, i WE MOVE 
I WILL

THC CONTAACT EMPLO-~ • ON WIT\-\ 
FIGHT '<OU 

"When you cease to make a contribution,
'(EE5 f'ROM OUR E-1"\All ! /\ND THERE'S NO } OUR LIVE.5. 
TO THE ENO 
you begin to die. " 
Eleanor Roosevelt 
VIEWPOINT 

LETTER FROM STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
To the Class 
of2003 

Congratulations' You hav11 jusl taken tlw first step ol' a four­
year journey that will bn full ol' 1ww ptioph:, new challenges and 
rww discoveries alJouL yourself. Don't step asido from the path as 
tlwsc nmv opporlunilics come your way; bn an al'liVP part ol' the 
Saint Mary's rommunity that we w.ill build log1:llwr this year. 
We arc so excited that you have chosm1 lo come lo Saint Mary's. Study hard and play hard I As you rnrniw tlw hallmarks ol' a li!Jer­ally nducatml woman, remember that your academic lil'c will bn challenging, but rewarding. We also 1rncourng11 you to become involved in Saint Mary's student government, cnmpus clubs or Bdle athletics ... the possibilitfos are endless.! Wn are certain that you will have outstanding contributions to makP to thesP organi­zations, and we can't wait! 
i\s representatives lo tho student body, we wnlco11w Lim oppor­tunity to get lo know !\ach and every one ol' you. We arc embark­ing on a now millennium and we challenge each ol' yuu tu SIJINE ON! Tlw Studmll Government Association's thonrn, "SlllNli ON," nncourages the acadnmic, social and spirilual growth or tlw Saint Mary's woman. !!'then! is anything W<l can do to help you SHINE ON this y<iar. pliia.se let us know. 
Be proud: You are a Saint Mary's woman. We hope lhat you will enjoy your Saint Mary's journey as much as we havo, and, above all. we hope lhat you will listen to your lwarl and explore all of your dreams. 
Nancy Midden Srudem Body President Saint l'yfary's College Angie Little :irudcnr Bmly Vice l'rc.sidenr Saint Mary's Cnllcge 
Augusr 24, 1999 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

We need to build new attitudes with new buildings 
Aflnr watching the Blue-Gold game, my lianeell and I viewed some of the new buildings on campus. While in the College of Business Administration, 1was asked ii' I was tlw building's jani­tor. 
As an A.f'rican-American male, a B.13.A. and an alumnus of' this Univnrsity for almost 10 yoars, I !'nit extrnmoly embarrassud and ashamed that my fianc(w had to witrrnss such a sight in tho Colloge of Business. 
Although new buildings arn buill. what am wo doing to build now attitudes concPrning racial sensitivity? ll is my hope that my children will nut be subjected Lo such treatment at our Univorsity. 
WE arc ND! 
Lionel M. Coleman, Jr. 
!3-B.A. '89 
April 24, 1999 
rHE

OBSERVER Wednesday, August 25, 1999 

'Mindin-g the Gap' between Rulers and Ruled in Russia 
One of' th(\ most distressing developments ol' the late twnntit~th cHnlurv has been Russia's dm:linn l'rom 1111 unlovPly.but l'unctional super­power to an international basketcase. , 
Now Hussia is poor enough Lo have her hand­icrafts sold at our local 
"Ten Thousand Villages" Martha Merritt store in Mishawaka but still rich (mougl1 that many p1wplri have telephones, allowing llrnm lo report 1111 Guest Column their dwindling living stan­dards and health to tlrn over-present pollst,m,. It was sometim<lS assumed that Llw only replace­ment f'or communism would be democracy. Instead. llussians rol'ur to democrats as "dmn­schiza" ldmn-crazi1isl and havu l'ar more <!Xpressions for anarchy and lawlessness lhan is healthy.• 
On a trip to llussia this summer. I was again struck by Lim contrast bPtwpn11 Moscow and tho Muscovitns. ThP city has never loukt!d beltfff, full ol' rnstornd historical buildings, ostentatious gov<miment and business ol1ices, and a new warrnn of' elegant shops beneath central Moscow. Mos<:ow Mayor Yuriy Luzhkov has 11ational-l1wel ambiliuns and has spent consid­erable money to demonstrate his worth. Moving around this display is an increasingly ghost-like populacw children look malnour­ished, what used to be ugly public housing is now hideous and full of danger, beggars throng silently in public plac<~s. Drunkenness, perpntu­ally a problem in llussia, is ol' such proportions Lhal young mPn can be seen staggering in the streets by 10:00 a.m. on weekdays. Life nxpm:tanc:y has !'alien to 58 years for men. 64 for women. 
l'lrn Hussian with whom I stayed, a self'­clcscribed "Soviet babushka," Just al'ter Hussian, indopondence purchased the apartment in which she had livod with her husband for 30 years. This was a brave step for an elderly por­son at a time when it was unclear whether proporty ownership would be fully legal or r<lc­ogni:1,ed by llrn new l{ussia. She held onto an additional 30,000 rubles while debating whether to save or spend it. 
As it turned out. government policy in 1992 madn tho decision for her: within a week the valwi ol' her holdings was reduced from a pos­sibl11 sewmll use-id cars or one additional small apartment to the price of a lunch. Now this 72­ynar-old works for the equivalent ol' $18 a month and worries endlessly about how lrnr middle-aged children will survive. 
Events in high politics were equally unhappy this summer. President Yeltsin !ired popular Prime Minister Yevgeny Primakov shortly before my arrival in May. and I witnessed an enraged Duma take the threatened step of' impeachment proceedings against the presi­dent on livn chargHs of treason. Th1\ Duma backed down al'ter t.hnie tnnse days and many 
rumors or pay-offs. It then approved 
Primakov's successor. Snrgey Stnpashin, and just now has approvnd the third prime minislPr this year, Vladimir Putin. The Duma <:ooporali:s with tho merry-go-round of appoinlnwnls !hat substitutm; !'or governing Hussia in part to ensure stability as nlections approach. for tlrn 
Duma in December 1999 and for the prosicl<m­
1:y in the summer of 2000. 
This summer was particularly 'important as a time to lay the groundwork for tho first consti­tutionally-mandatnd transfer of' executive power in Bussia's tumultuous history. Instead, Yeltsin and "The Family" who back him am dcsperalnly seeking an·alternativn. Newspap!1rs are l'ull or accounts or backroom bargaining. including charg1is that t.lm conLinu­ing unn\St in tho Caurnsus will lw nscalattid or that Hussia and 13nlarus will sudrknly unit<\ so that Yoltsin might cxtnnd his limit ol' two­tnrms. 
Meanwhile, most peoplt! hardly spiiak of tlw nlnct.ions Instead. I hoard Lhrnn words recently borrnwod from English: boyfriend, girlf'ri11nd and killer. The lattnr is of'tnn usml whnn nifor­ring to St. Petnrsburg. whom tlw assassination ol' parliamentarian Galina Starnvoilova in December 1998 was only thri most shocking in a continuing series. On tlrn otlwr hand, public rnlations among Lim unmarri<id -which have gone from virtually no displays ol' affect.ion under communism to discreet necking on park benches in 1993 and wholelrnarted groping on the massivo oscalators to tlrn nrntro in I99rJ ­muld be seen as a sign of social relaxation af'tor too many decaclns of rnprnssion. But they also look like a drisperate last hurrah, ar<>floc­l.ion of life 011 the edge that has bocomti the norm in l{ussia in this decade. 
Can elections perform a democratic !'unction against this backdrop or social d1wastation? The presidential ehietions of 1996 featured Ynltsin eliminating candidates from thn "d1m10­cratic" camp, strategic sil!\nC<!s on the part ol' Lim m1idia, and lacklustre public participation. At least elimination did not mean murder, media were distortPd by their own choit:u, and public participation was not nnforced. But w11 should anticipate other. lt\SS savory demonstru­lions of public "voice" in Hussia precisnly b11caus<l elites have been successl'ul in manipu­lating elections. 
Passengers leaving the Mos.cow metro am asked not to forget their possossions. Somehow this summer I heard instead the warning on thn London Underground -to "mind the gap" looming beneath our fept. 
Martha Merritt is an associate professor of government and international relations. 
The 1Jiews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Falling· upon a new semester 
• Kicking major butt during 1999-2000 
Tlw grind. ThP s\.ving of things. Status 
lfllll. 
I gw•ss you ean call il what,•v1\r Yllll want. hut basically it is tlw l'l'lllrn or hPgi1111ing 1,1" so11H;thi11g that nm <·,aus1• !ioth pai11 and phia­
s11rP ,ll th1• sanw li11w: llw ru•w srhool y1•ur. 
ll1\lui·11i11g lo this Nol.rn Danw l'amilv is unlikP any l'a111iiy n•union out LhPrn. I11slPad of l111gP li•asls and jogs 


dow11 1111•111ory lam•. WI' n1IIPg1• sludP11ts  Mike Vanegas  
snl out 11po11 this  
rww v<mr r.-mlv lo  
mak<~ plm1ty of~ 1ww  .';cene !:'ditor  
m1:111ori1is with  
plnnly or lll\W Jll'O­ 
ph·.  
At lnast I llopP.  

By shnring thrn;p 1ww oxporinncos with our IHlow IIPlh·s and DomPrs. WI\ arc dm11gi11g each otlll'r forHv1:r. H b imp1>r· tant to n,aliz1• just how imp111·ta11t our daily attitudPs arl'. Thtir<• an• Sl'VPr,t! l.hirigs LO l'lfllWllllwr to w1sun• a gn•ut frit\!lllly atn111splwn• at NoLr<• llamc and Sai11L Mary's throughout I 'JIJ'J-:WOO. 
First of all. 11ncn thn b11gi1mi11g-ol'-tlw­y1•ar diligPn<"e l'adPs away-say. a Wt\nk inlo the scuwsLPr -you will sec a drop in atLm1drn1w in your dussns. This 11wans that it is yom duty LD takl' good nolHs thaL will lwlp your ahsmll l'riuud during tlw ll(\Xl dass SPssion. Ldting a dass1nall: rnpy good nolt!S is orn: or Llw 11olllnst actions a t:ollngn studc:nt can takt•. . 
Also. when it r:ouws lll rdaLiuns with Llw 111u11y powrn·ful puopln around cam­pus. rnmombm· that 1w1:ryone has a !Jad sith Mak11 sur11 to avoiu tht~ bad sidm, 11f Jll!rsons sud1 as your 1irul'ussors, rnctors, supnrvisurs, 1•tc. 
Fvnn morP important. try al all costs to kiss up to thosn sanw p1•oph\, making Llwir good sidcs their most l'amiliar sid1\s. Many ol' your dassmatns or dormmatlis may takl' you simply fur a brow11-11os11r. W1•ll, that's whal you an•. 
But what you n;ally must realiw is that in addition to having a brown rwsn, you am also highly inwllignnt. For this is a studPnl-l'at-sludrn1L world out lwrn in South llrn1d, and cvcryone is suard1ing l'or that goldnn way to gd alwad. 
Aclu.L"lly. it's not so brutal. TIH1r1.\ are tlms1i things called nxlrucurrinrlar activi­ti,•s lhat cer"lainly can lakn anyorw's lifo (llll or the doldrums or acad11mia. It is nnVt\r too lat!' -(Wnn !'or snniors -to get involv1id in Lhat dub you'vn always wanllid to join. IL is nevnr loo narly tiitlwr. th•shmnn. 
It is dnfinitdy twvtir loo lat11 lo allow complnto dnvolion to an at'Livity, up to tlw p11inl wlwrn your academics w,Lsh away into oblivion, your health brigins to (\l'llmbln and both campUSllS comn to rncognizti you as that guy or girl with a p1\ncha11l for tlrnt onn club. 
Tiler.-is lllHl nxtranirril'ulur acl ivilv th.Lt just abouL nvoryonn takos µart iii:· Wlwkuncl ·'stuff-doing." Tho stuff that jH!npl1\ "do" is stuff that is sonwtimcs frowned upon by somo pPopln in some sorl of admiuistralion-type group. 
Though it is not mict\ssary to makll lil'o a born by Laking tlVIH"Y suggestion as scriptun~. some caution must b1• us1~d. 
Just as il is a bit abnormal to dcdicat<i all of your lime to otlrnr cxtrucurril'.ular activities, mockration is 1wcnss;1ry wlwn doing this sort of' stuff. 
But. l111y, you ull do whatcwr you want to do. We'm all adults lwrn. and Wt\ all makn our own dm:isions. So good luck Lhis year, and kick bull. 
'J1u· tiiews expressed in this column are those ufthe author and not necessarily those ofUw Observer. 
. Another first day of school at good ol' ND 
rt all startml 011 my !'irst day of kindergarten. 
My mother insisted on walking me up to the bus stop to make sure that I got on the school bus okay. She evnn went so far as to takn my picture in front of' the bus when it arrivml and as I climlrnd up thn steps. 
/\s the bus start­ed to pull away and I caught a final glimpse ol' my mom waving to me from the sidewalk, I was !'aced with the task of finding somewhere to sit. All I remember was that ,woryonn was so much big­ger than mn. They wern all talking and laughing like they had been best friends forPvPr. 
I was nervous and oxcitl1d all at once. Where would I sit? Would I know anyorrn? Would anyone talk to me? 

I don't rorncmbnr where I sat on the bus on that f'irst day of kinder­garten, but I do know that I arrived sal'ely and the subsequent bus trips were sufficiently less traumatic. 
l had to rid11 Urn bus to high school, for the first two years at least until I got my driver's license and my own car. So. of l'Ourse. Uwrn are pictures in our family photo albums of me dressed in my green plaid kilt and whiLB oxford shirt on my f'irst day of high school. There arc even pictures of me -still wearing that very fash­ionable Catholic school attire ­posed in front of my car the first day 


that I drove myself to school. 
Tlwre won't !Hi any picturns in our albums ol' me on tlw first day or my junior year lwrn at Notre Danw. how­ev1ir. My mom wasn't hem yesterday morning to take a picturn of nm as I walked ·lo class at DeBartolo. 
Yesterday was still important to nw even though it didn't include tlrn typi­cal l'anfarn that had accompanied all of' my otlwr first days. 
First days of school am significant at any agn, whethnr or not your mom is tlwrn to take your picturn. Tlwy are exciting. scary and a lillln nnrve­wracking. 
First days also give yuu the chance to reflect on tlrn past and anticipaln thn future. It is the perfect limn to establish some personal goals for tlrn upcoming year. This has become more evident to me since I have come to college. No matter what happened last year, this is a whole new start. You can do whatever you want as long as you set your mind to il. 
There are so many decisions lo make and opportunilins to takn advantagn of. What should I major in" What clubs an'd voluntfwr activi­ties should I participatp in'? All of' this might even slrnm overwhelming at times, but if we neglect Lo think ahout the future, we might miss something meaningful. So don't be afraid of' the future. Bather, take time during tlrnse first days to con­template it. 
llopcfully you will enjoy your f'irst days lrnro at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's whnthor you an\ a freshman, sophomoro, junior or senior. Whatever happens, just remember that there ure many more days ahead and anything is possible. Good luck and have a grnat year! 
The uiews e:r:pressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
-----~ 
page 18

-
MLB 

Bell's homer pushes D'Backs over Marlins 
-------------~-------------------------------~---------------·--------,,____"""' 
The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, August 25, 1999 
Houston defeats New York, 5-1 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 
Jay Bell wasted no time making up for his mistakes. 
Bell atoned for his costly double error in the seventh inning by hitting a ticbreak­ing home run in the eighth inning Tuesday night that sent the Arizona Diamondbacks over the Florida Marlins 5-4_ 
"fortunately baseball gives you tl second chan(:e to 

.. 
redeem yourself," Bell said. 
Rookie Erubiel Durazo hit his fourth home run since being callfld up July 25 as the NL West-leading Diamondbacks won their fourth in a row_ 
Reliever Matt Mantei, mak­ing his first appearance against Florida since being traded July lJ. pitched Llrn ninth for his 23rd save. 
Three Arizona pitchers combined on a four-hitter. 
"It's a weird reeling. It's almost like playing against your little brothers," Mantei said. 
The Marlins scored three times in the seventh to make it 4-all. Todd Dunwoody's Hl31 grounder with the basr.s loaded made it 4-2 and. with two outs. pinch-hitter Chris Klapinski followed with a rou­tine grounder tu Bell at sec­ond base. 
Bell misplayed the ball for one error, then threw made a wild throw that allowed a sec­ond run to score on the play. 
"He's human_ Those things happen," Arizona manager Buck Showalter said. 
"Usually someone else picks him up. but tonight trn picked himsPlf up," Showaltor con­tinued_ 

Said Bell: "There are no apologies in baseball. I didn't go out therH and try to make twu e,-rors like Andy didn't go out there to load the base!:l." 
With two outs in the eighth, Bell hit his 31st home run, connecting off reliever Armando Almanza (0-l ). 
"We should've stay<•d away from Bel.I in Urnt situation," Marlins manager John Boles said. ''He's got :rn homers. Walk him." 
Arter r•ain delayed the start of the game for 36 minutes. Andy Benes (9-111 went out and gave up four hits and two earned runs in seven innings. 
Alex Fernandez guve up three runs in the first inning, two <Hl Durazo's homer. Fernandez missPd his last start to get a cortisone shot in his surgically repaired right shoulder, and madP his first appearance since Aug. 11. 
Fernandez allowed four runs and five hits in seven innings_ 
Fernandez !'aced the mini­mum or 14 batters in his last 4 1-3 innings. 
Tony Womack led off the game with a single and scored on Luis Gonzalez's double. 
Durazo hit his third homer 
in the past six games. 
ln the third, Womack sin­gled. stole his 55th base and scored on two groundnuts to make it 4-0. 
Benes gave up a leadoff sin­gle in the first and didn't give up another hit until Preston Wilson's belted his 21st homer in the lil'th inning. 
Houston increased its NL Associated Press 
Central lead to I 1/2 games over second-place Cincinnati, 
which lost 6-4 at Atlanta_ New York, which won 3-2 NEW YOHK 
Larry Dierker sensed this one wasn't just another game. Monday on Matt Franco's The Houston i\stros net~ded to bloop double in the ninth. 
show some backbone. espe­dropped 1 1/2 games behind cially to themselves, the first-place Braves in the NL "I think this was a charnc­East but n~mained 2 1/2 games 
tnr-building type of win," the ahead or Cincinnati in the wild-card race_
Astros manager said after Tuesday night's 5-1. 10-inning ;\ sign of thP Mets' tension victory over was when starter Masato the New York 
Yoshii. 
despite
Met!:i_ -"It was their turn to getAfter Josi ng allowing just
the bloops. The bloops 
one rnn and or the ninth in evened up and they five hits, 
in the bottom 
.,

Monday's Lhrew his
won_ 

scriBs opener. glove at the the Astros 
bench when won when Bobby Valentine he camn out 
H i c k y Mets' manager after71-3 
Gutierrez sin­gled in the go-ahead run in the l 0th inning and Jeff Bagwell followed with a three-run homer. 
Dierker sensed the emotion in this gam1-1 !"rom a loud crowd of 35,673. 
"We _just came from Miami, where there were three or four thousand people, who were there on holiday or something. lt almost had the flavor of a spring training game," _he said_ 
At Shea Stadium, the atmos­phere was a lot different. The i\stros were greeted by dozens of reporters. And while it wasn't quite like the postsea­son, the crowd was much more pumped up than the Astros are used to, even after Carl Everett's second-inning homer. 
"We may have to face them in the playoffs if we make it," said Astros starter Mike llampton, who combined with Billy Wagner (3-1) on a five­hitter. 
innings. 
"I wasn't angry at anyomi_ I was just l'rustraled," Yoshii said through a translator. "If' I was able to get three guys out easi­ly in that inning, we might have had a better chance of winning that game." 
Bagwell didn't want to make a big deal of his 38th homer, which made him the Astros' career HBls leader with 943, one more than current Houston first-base coach Jose Cruz. For Bagwell, the win was more important that the mile­stone_ 
"I hope it wasn't my last HBI with the Houston Astros," he joked_ 
Tony Eusebio, who had been 0-for,6 as a pinch hitter this year, blooped a doublH down the right-field line against Dennis Cook (10-3) leading off the 10th and took third on Huss Johnson's fly to right, just beating Hoger Cedeno's throw. 
Craig Biggio was intentional­ly walked and Gutierrez fouled off a squeeze bunt with a l-0 count before slapping the 1rnxt pitch to right field for the go­ahead run. 
"It was something down at my l'eet," Gutierrez said of the failed squeeze_ "It was pretty tough. I was just happy to foul it off and start over again_" 
Bagwell's hom<~r made him 6-for-15 on the Astros' road trip. Diorker seemed as sur­prisBd as hn was relieved_ 
"We actually put four runs on the board in one inning," he said_ "I can·t rnmembcr the last time we put more than one run on the board in an inning_" 
Actually, it was last Saturday, 21 innings 11arlior. But pitching kept Houston in the game. 
Hampton, trying for his league-leading 17th win, allowed only Mike Piazza's seventh-inning homer, his :nst Hampton, 4-0 with a i.:1:1 EBA in eight slarls against tlw Mets since .July 1996, has three consecutive no-decisions afler wfnning seven straight starts_ 
Everett, who has homered in four consecutive games, hit a 459-f'oot homer to right in the second for his 21st, his second in three career at-bats against Yoshii. 
Dierker, trying to extend the game long enough lo win. moved Biggio to left field as part of a double switch, the All-Star second baseman's first time in the outfield since April 27, 1991, against Atlanta. 
"I think it's a sign of how thin we are in our ranks of bench players with all our injuries," the manager said. 
It wurked_ In the end, Eusebio's hit WtlS the key. 
"It was their turn to get tho bloops," Mets manager Bobby Valentine said. "The bloops evened up and they won_" 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Norre Dame office, 024 Soml\ Dining H.111. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right ro edit all classifieds for content wirhout issuing refu11ds_ 
CLASSIFIEDS 

FRATERNITIES.SORORITIES and  Part-time big brother/big sister  3-6 BDRM HOMES NEAR CAM­ CARPET FOR SALE  +++++++++++++++++++++++++++  
STUDENT GROUPS: Earn $1000­ needed tor after-school childcare  PUS. NOW OR 2000/2001 _ROOMS  $40  
NOTICES  2000 with easy CIS Fund Raiser event.No sales required,Fund  for 2 boys. Weekdays (MWF possible) 3:00­ ALSO 272-6306  Great condition, grey. Call Bryan at X 3593  N_Q_ FOOTBALL TICKETS BUY/SELL/TRADE  
>  HEY FROSH  Raiser days are filling up.so call today.  5:00pm. Must like sports. be good with chil- SWANSON PARK 3 BDRM.FAM RM-2726306  ALL GAMES ALL LOCATIONS  
LOOKING FOR THE MOST POPU­ dren and ha~e reliable car_  NEW Prepaid Phone Cards!!!  GREAT PRICES  
LAA CLUB SPORT ON CAMPUS?  Contact Andrea  Call Angela@ 234-2211 (days) or  BED AND BREAKFAST  $20 ·>669 minutes  271-9330  
LOOK NO FURTHER THAN THE  800-829-4777  271-8224 (eves.)  Your "home away from home" for  Call 243-9361, ask for Rob  !!NO STUDENT TICKETS!!  
MEN'S CREW TEAM_  (YES, THAT  football and other ND events.  TICKETMART INC.  
IS ROWING FOR THOSE OF YOU  Prof needs babysitter for two young  Private home 5 min_ from campus_  www.ndtickets.com  
WESTERNERS.) LOOK FOR THE OARS ON ACTIVITY NIGHT AND  girls_ Flex_ hrs_ nights. weekends. Call 631-6268 or 289-6239_  FOR RENT  Queen &twin beds, private baths, & extras_ Call-219-272-9471.  TICKETS  +++++++++++++++++++++++++++  
SIGN UP!!!!  

 INTRAMURAL OFFICIALS  ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE  Furn_ 1 bdrm_ apt., air, phone. laun- ND ALUM WILL PAY $100 APIECE  
--·  Suppressed Dead Sea Scrolls Research:http://www.geocities.com: 80/Athens/Rhodes/7031/deadsea.h  Otficials needed for Flag Football. Baseball, &Fastpitch Softball_ Earn good money, meet new people, &  HOME FOR ND-SMC EVENTS_ VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  dry, utilities paid_ 1 mi_ N. campus. 272-0615_  WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT­BALL TICKETS 271-1526  FOR TENNESSEE TIX 2773097 NEED 3 BC TIX­ 
tml  have fun! Experience helpful, but  243-0658.  NICE HOUSE CLOSE TO ND  email: Kerr_ 10@nd.edu  
we will train everybocly _Contact the  GOOD AREA NORTH 2773097  SELL &BUY GA FOOTBALL TICK- 
RecSports ottice-Brandon  ETS  
LOST & FOUND  Leimbach or Jeff Walker @ 631 • 6100, 01 stop by the office 111 the  Country setting, studio apt. in Clay 1wp_ mcL furnishings, garage park- EFFICIENCY APT. AVAILABLE HOME GAMES. TOLL RO_ EXIT  277-6619  PERSONAL  
Rolls Sports Recreation Center.  ing &utilities. Non-smoker, no pets.  96. ELKHART. 30 MINS. FROM  WANTED­ 
LOST:  Quiet a must. $465/mo  STADIUM_  
MEN'S PRESCRIPTION GLASSES  AECSPORTS STUDENT SUPER·  Call Dame! 219-272-3160 or  1-219-264-1755  ND lootball tix_  Here we go again_  
STOLEN OUT OF CAA NEAR  VISOR-Supervisors work 10-15  Gecko13@earthlink net  AM -232-2378  
..  O'NEILL HALL IN AUGUST . REWARD! NO QUESTIONS ASKED  hours per week. splitting their time between office hours and on-site supervision of RecSports activities_  3 bdrm duplex. remodeled 503 Eddy, one mile from campus.  FOR SALE  PM -288-2726 ND football tix for sale.  This \s a hello for: Stella, Beth, Laura, Mary, Jeanine. Allie, and Cynthia_  
683-1938  Each supervisor is assigned to vari- Appliances. W/0_ 273-8332  From Mom_  
ous ,ntramural sports throughout  Beautiful brass bed, queen size.  AM -232-2378  
the year and is responsible lor  B&B  with orthopedic mattress set ancl  PM -288-2726  Are you reading, girls?  
WANTED  aclministering these activities tram sign-ups to completion_ Weekend  NO FOOTBALL & GRAD. 3 MILES TO N.D.  deluxe frame. New, never used. still in plastic. $235­ There will be a quiz.  
work 1s required_ Job openings ( 1 ).  287-4545  219-862-2082.  FOR SALE:  
ND-KS GA TIX_  Check out The Observer on the  
After school child care neecled_ Apprnx. 12 hours per week_ Mus• have a ca,_ Good pay! Call 631­ Neecl afternoon childcare of prof's boys (ages 11 & 9) in our 11ome M-Th, 3-5:30pm_ Will consider those  HOMES CLOSE TO CAMPUS hllp'.1/mmmrentals.homepage_coml 232-2595  SILVER TREK RACING BIKE­52cm frame_ 12 spd_ Excellent con­dition_ $150/obo. Rich 289-3921.  AM • 232-2378 PM -288-2726  web at hllR:ilQtl~!lrver_ng_!alQL!i Hello Emily Snow_  
9947. Lisa  who can work 1+ days_ Must have  Did you miss me?  
your own car_ Pays competitive w,th  THAT PRETTY PLACE.  Spring Break Spec1als!Bahamas  BUYING and SELLING N D FOOT­ 
I need  a respo11sible person to  ND student rates. Please call Prot  Bed and Breaklast Inn has space  Party Cruise 5 Days $2791 Includes  BALL TICKETS_  Shaw_ Kale_ Christie_  
care for my 2 chilclren ( 8&6) _On  Matt Bloom (1-5104, 255-3472)  available for football/parent wknds_  Meals!  GREAT PRICES. CALL 289-8048  
M&W(4:30pm-2:00am) and every other FrL & Sat  Part-time child care.  5 Rooms with private baths, $80­$115, Middlebury, 30 miles from  Awesome Beaches,NightlifelCancun &  I need one ticket for MSU  Have you nothing better to do than read the classifieds?  
(4:30pm -4:30am).Transp_ provid­ed if needed $30/ mghL Michele 287-9744  M thru TH, 12-24 hrs/week. flexi­ble. 5 mins_ from campus_ Good pay_ Carmen 234-1744_  campus. Toll Road Ex11 # 107, 1-800-418­9487_  Jamaica 7 Nights From $399! FLoncla$129!spnngbreaktraveLcom 1-800·678-6386  Name your price call Bryan at 1-6900  Honk 11 you love football_ Honk!  


page 19

Wednesday, August 25, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS 
-------------~-----~-::-============================================================================ 
WNBA 
Sparks advance with 
71-58 playoff victory 
As.oda1cJ I' res, 
IN(;l.l•:W(}()I), Cali!'. 

Lisa l.oslii! aud r-.twadi MiLbika Pach scor('{{ 12 points i11 Lile :-wcon<l hall' as tlw Los 
,\11gtdPs ,'-;parks ov1•n:amP an l l-poilll hall'tinw ddicil a11d IH'.ilt the Sucramonlo Mnnarrhs 7 I -;i8 TuPsday 
night in a \,\'Nil,\ playof'I' gamn. 
Tlw Sparks uclv,t111'.11d Lo Uw Wnslnrn Conl'or1•11c·1• l'inals a111I will l'aco two-tillll' ddiwd­i11g {'h11111pio11 l1011sto11. 
The l'irsl ganw or tlw bcst­of-:{ snrios will Im Thursday night ,1l thP f.'orum. with tl11· linal two wu111·s sclwdul1~d for llouston 011 Sunday and Monday. 
Lt>sli<' /'i11isl1Hd with 22 
points and 12 rl'!1011ncls, whill' 
(;orda11a Crubin ndd<•d I:{ 
points. Muhika 12, all i11 th<• 
sPro11d hall'. a11d ll1•lisha 
Milton had l 0. 
l\uthiP B11lton-l loliriPld had 
15 poinls and Tangl'la Smith 
add1•d 14 f'or Sacramento 
lu•l'on• a 1·n,wd a111rnu111·1•d al 
8,51,1>. . 
111 till' lirst playoff gamt> l'or both :)-yl'ar-old l'ra111'.hisPs, tll!• Spi1rks \\'Pr<' 1)-for-:J5 from tlw li1•lcl in l!w first hall' and 1rnih·d 32-21 at halllinw. 
Lady llard111011 1qw1wd llw Sl'l'lllHI lialr with a layup. giv­ing 1lw Mo 11 a ri' h s l h 1• i r biggPst !Pad. :H-2 l. l.os 
\ 

/ Search""
Over20
Stores to Find

the lowest Price! 
~ 
Microeconomic Theory 
by Walter Nicholson List Price: $94.50 

Varsity Books.com........ $88.40 
Barnes&Noble.com....... $94.50 
Amazon.com.............. $104.00 

Ang1dfls u.sod 6-0 and 7-0 runs to go up J8-:H with 
14:04 rnmaininJ{, their f'irst load sin co l 2-10, 
Smith's layup with 12:14 l<1f"t gave S1tcrnmonto its last load. 42-41. hnl'orn I .llsl in started a I0-tl run by hiUi11g thn:P f'rP<' throws with I I :!i4 il:l'L 
Wlwn Mabika 1i11dcid Urn run with H layup with <J:Hl rnmai11ing, Los /\ngPles' was alHrnd S 1-42 _ 
1!11lt1111-llolit'icld nndnd the drought with two l'rno throws, but th<' Sparks rcspon<fod with sev,~11 straight points and lnrl by at lnust ni1rn tho rnst ol' tlw ganw. 
Tlin sliort-llandud 
Monar<'-hs, alrnady playing 
without starting conter 
Yolanda (;ri!Titli. losl starling 
guurd Kcdru llolland-Corn 
wilh 16 minulns to play with a 
sprai1wd right anklu. 
Starling poin! glfard Ticha 
l'n11irlwiro bruised her thigh 
in llw final minut1• ot' Uw first 
half' and playPd only t.ll!"<Hl 
minutm, in tlw sncoml half. 
c;rifTith, who l1id tlw lnaguci in r<>lwundi11g and sll•als, sul'­fpn•d a SPaso!l-('tHli11g k11P!' injury /\ug. I:t 
Tlw Mo11arclls losl thnir final thr1·1· l'(igular-snason gamPs williout lwr, l'alli11g into third plarP in lhl' W<isti•rn Co11fprnncP and los­i11g llw ran, l'or honwcourt advantagn in Llw first round to Los /\ngPIPs by 01w ganw. 

www.bestbookbuys.com 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 

Moherman earns start at OSU 
Associated Pre•• 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 
While fans weighed in on ­Internet sitPs, argued in sports burs /lnd made their cases in leltors to n"wspu­pors, Austin Mohcrman quiet­
ly  mado  points  with  Ohio  
Statc•'s ctrnelms.  
() 11  ;vi O ll dU ,Y ,  hC  W ,i S  

d<) cIar n d th c ninLh • r ank eti Bu,:ktiyns' starting quarter­back against 1\1 iam i i 11 Sunday's Kickol'f' Classie. St(ivo Bnllisari dropped to No. 2 on Urn d11ptl1 cliarl. nnding Ohio State's most rncont quurteruack duel. 
"IL has not 1)0011 torturous," Molrnrnrnn said. "I Wf:nt out nvery day and did what I could do. I tried to show the coachns. I didn't fucus on tho dncision." 
Bollisari said hn doesn't co11sidm· Uw competition over and thinks tlw tlecision will lw made on th,1 fiold during gamns. 
"Whoovnr is making plays. llas good production, puts points on tlH\ hoard and wins ganws, that should be Llw starL<-ir," lfollisari said. 
ThP job appears to bn l'vlolwrrnan's -!'or as long as llw Buckeyes ol'fonsn f'lourish­<,s. 
"I cannot wll you rig-ht now ill mv mind who I think thn bnst 0 l1uarterback is. bul we th ink the onn who deserves to start in this first ballgame is /\ustin," coach John Co11p<1r said Monday. 
AskNI if Bellisari would d<1f­initcly play against the 12th­ranked Hurricanes, Cooper said, "I didn't say that. We've said we'rn going lo start Austin in the ballgame and 

Gel lhe Chicago Tribune al more lhan 
50%OFF 
lhe newssland price. 
Chicagoland's most comprehensive ·source of news, sports and entertainment. 
VISIT OUR BOOTH ON CAMPUS! 
Or call to subscribe at 
1-800-TRIBUNE, 
and ask for Operator #36. 
<fbital}o [Tibnnt 
chicagotribune.com 
we're going to do everything we can to win the football game. If we start Austin and he played fantastic, played grnat -why take him out'?" 
That's a chango from tho 1996 and 1997 seasons when Stanley Jackson and Joe Germaine were listed No. 1 antl 1-A at quarterback, shar­ing playing tim11. but not a lov,~ f'or Lbt\ uncomfortable position thny wcro in. 
Jackson started all but one game in those Lwo seasons, but newer n~ceived tlrn full conf'idencc of the coaching 
staff. 
lie was almost always replaced in Orn second quar­ter by Germaimi, who usually playc~d when a game hung in llw balance. 
"We're -not going into this ballgame saying, 'Austin, you'rn going lo play the f'irst two sciries, Urnn Steve you're going in,"' Coopnr said, 
"I can tr.II you there's prob­
ably a good. chancr. lhat 
somcwlwrc during the game 
Stnvn will go in." 
Tho two havn jousted f'or 
tlrn job sincn the !irst practice 
ot' thn spring. 
Neither has establishnd 
much of a college track 
record. 
Bcllisari, a sophomore from 
Bor.a Halon, Fla., was 3-f'or-5 
passing in 01w game last sea­
son, whilr. Mohcrman, a red­
shirt sophomorn from Mission 
Vicijo, Calif., misl'irnd on his 
only attempt in th<: sam<1 
ganw. 
But Mohcrman at least was a full-time quarterback for his two years at Ohio Stale and was able to learn f'rom Germaine, who passed for 3,330 yards while leading the Buckeyes to an 11-l record 
t1Linivi metromix.com
L )_ ·~-~ 
Ohloego' ¦ Oa,npl•t• ¦ nt•.-t•ln~•"t •ouro;i• 
and a No. 2 spot in the final polls last year. 
Bellisari play<1d on special teams and at defensive back last season, sharing the award for top special t<1arn's player and finishing tied for 11th on tlrn Buckeyes squad in tackles. 
"Why did Molrnrman gel the nod over Bellisari"" Cooper repeated. "Well, !m's had Lim nod. He's lrnnn our first-loam quartlH·back. Normally. when wn start out in the spring, snniority rules and he was of course a quart.(\rback last. year and started out a little ahead of' Stcwe." 
Several of' thn Ohio Statn players said thoy wnrc happy to havfi the situation clarified. 
"I am just rolicvod so pooplo won't be like, 'Who's going lo start?' I'm glad to havn that part over with," wide receiver Heggie Germany said. 
Cooper said MolHffman also had the 11dgn in the learn 's August. workouts in prepara­tions of nrnnting the llurricanes. 
"The main reason that we 
will start /\ustin in this ball­
ganrn is that we grade thnm 
every day in practice, we 
knep charts on completions. 
interceptions, total yardage 
and bad plays. 
For what1wcr mason, /\ustin 
has graded out slightly alwad 
of' Steve -particularly in tlw 
last couple of scrimmages 
w1~'ve had in tlw stadium." 
Cooper said Sunday's game .,.. 
would det1nminn ii' -or 
when -Moherman stayPd on 
the l'ield or Bellisari replaced 
him. 
"A lot of it will be based on 
feel, a gut decision that you 
make during the ballgame," 
he said. 
r ·-­
' 
page 20 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, August 25, 199<.J 

To all the Saint Mary's College, Holy Cross College and University of Notre Dame students. faculty and staff returning to campus, \Ve at Notre Dame Federal Credit Union would like to say in our 
under-stated way... 
\\\ 

··•· 
.·.i 
-.. \

And \.\'\· ...
',. \~ 

remind you of your eligibility for' membership in the Notre Dame Federal Credit Union. So, join the union. We've got all the products and services banks do without the gimmicks, tricks and extravagant fees. 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
For People. Not For Profit. 
www.ndfcu.org e-mall: ndfcu@ndfcu.org 
M~Olfiee Edleon Lokea Ireland Road Mishawaka 
1'XJ33 Doug:~ Rd 111 West Edison Rd 2102 E. lrek::ind Rd 125 fouth Mil St PO Box 7878 M~hawaka, IN 46545 South Bend, IN 46614 Mimawaka, IN 46544 Notre Dame, IN 465.56 (219) 254-4400 (219) 299-2220 (219) 256-2361 (219) 239-6611 
Sa11t Joseph's Medieol Center Saint Mary'sCompus omce Granger Expreu Portage Road 801 Earl L~o1:e ~t The Center Building (Clock Tower) 12980 State Rd 23. Sute F 3457 Portage Road ~outh Berd, IN 46617 Notie Dame. IN 46556 Granget IN 46530 South Bend, IN 46628 
(219) 237-72.eR, (219) 284-4614 (219) 239·935l (219) 277-8959 
tNDfP£NDENT OF THE UNIVERSITY 

...... 

WcJne~day, Augusc 25, 1999 The Obmver . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 
TOnlGHTI 

CONS I . ER_  TH IS  !YOUR  FIRST  
G~OUP  P~OJECT  OF  THE  SEMESTE~  
COOL  music,  oanc1nG  ano  eacK  TO  SCHOOL  PRICes  

a.as • oooRs open @ ePm • MUST BE 21 


~ I 
222 S. MICHIGAN I SOUTH BEND 
219.234.5200 
CALL THE HEARTLAND 
CONCERT & EVENT LINE 
219.251.2568 
~ 
page 22 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, August 25, 1999 
COME TO WORK FOR NOTRE DAME FOOD SERVICE 

~ DO YOU WANT TO EARN EXTRA CASH? 
~ DO YOU WANT TO MAKE MORE FRIENDS? 
~ DO YOU HAVE EXTRA TIME? 
FLEXIBLE HOURS OR SET SCHEDULES MEET AND SEE INTERESTING PEOPLE SIGN UP AT: 
NORTH AND SOUTH DINING HALL AND THE HUDDLE AT ALL MEAL TIMES 8-20@ THE PICNIC-NORTH Q!JAD & 1D CAPTURE-SDH HOSPITALITY RM 8-23@ REGISTRATION 
You do not need to be present to win ­ winning numbers will be posted outside the sub office in  
201 laFortune tomorrow morning.  
weLcome weeK  
Thursday 4-7pm Fieldhouse Moll  
Have fun with free t-shirts, tye-dying, necklace making &music while  
you enjoy cotton candy, popcorn, and sno-cones compliments of sub.  
Friday 4-7pm Fieldhouse Mall  
Join the football frenzy before the pep rally and get your free  
foam fingers, mini-footballs, burgers, brats, and treats from sub.  
www.nc'-edursu:>  

l
I 
Wednesday, August 25, 1999 The Ohmver . SPORTS page 23 
MLB 
Royals' Montgomery falls short of 300th career save 
~----------­

Associated l'rcss 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. 

If' JdT MoulgomHry dons gut carimr saVI\ No. :mo 1.his yPar. h1~·11 IHll'll it during a timn ol' historically rnisnrablc relief' pitd1ing !'or tlrn Kansas City lloyals. 
llnc slrikn away !him lwcom­ing th<' Hlt h man with :mo savns. Llw :H-y1\ar-old righL­hand1\r gav1• up a tying bloop sin!-(11! Lo Balti111orp's Dt\rrick Mav i11 Llw n in t h in 11 in g Tu1~sday night 
TAI CHI 
UTILIZES THE MOVEMENTS FOUND IN NATURE TO GIVE YOU A PHYSICAL AND SPIRITUAL WORKOUT. 



WEDNESDAYS 

SEPTEMBER 1 -OCTOBER 13 5:20-6:25 OR 6:30-7:25, $25 
REGISTRATION BEGINS FRIDAY I AUGUST 27 I 7:30AM IN THE RSRC. CALL 1-6100 WITH QUESTIONS. 
The Orioles wenL on to win 5-:1 on t\lberl Bcl!r~•s two-run llomcr in the 10th. 
l;or Monlgomnry, who had an 0-2 count on May. iL was blown save No. 6 this year. AILogetlrnr, tlrn Royals' wuel'ul reli1•f' corps has 28 lossns and 28 hlown save:; in a yHar when Ltwy l'ould ho heudnd toward their lirst I00-loss s1mson. 
"You get two guys out and you're onP pitch away," said Montgomery, who has played almost his entire I 2-year carnor in Kansas City. 
May hit a prolly good pitch. 
placing it over second base after Montgomery had allowed two singles. 
"J made a quality pitch. It just didn't work out that way," said Montgomery, "Guys in the dugout said it looked like he was just able to get his bat out and serv1: iL Lo center. It was a bad break. IL was a good break l'or us on Johnny's catch." 
Willi one out and two on. left 
· nclder Johnny Damon made u snnsational catch of' Charles Johnson's drive, leaping high on the wall and robbing him of extra bases. 

Yanks win 10-7 in extra innings 
Associated Press 
AHLINGTON, Texas 
Tino Martinez hit a throe-run homer in the l1th as the New York Yankees kept up their dominance of' tho Texas llangors with a 10-7 victory Tuesday night. 
Ono day al'tor the Yankees beat the Rangers 21-3 -the worst loss in Texas history ­:--Jew York needed extra innings to beat Texas for the eighth lime in 11 meel.ings this year. 
Derck .Jeter drew a one-out walk !'rom rnliever Corev Lee [0-1 l, who madn his major league debut. Paul O'Neill fol­lowed with a single. One out latm·, Martinez hit u 3-2 pitch into the right-field seats for his 

"That was truty a great catch. 1 thought it was out for sure," said Baltimore manager B.ay Miller. 
Brady Anderson, who hit two solo homers for the Orioles. drew a two-out walk in the ninth from Montgomery. 
''J-Je's always been a tough closer." said Anderson. "I remember five years ago he was a closer who was going two innings to get. n lot of his saves. Be's been a very solid closer for many years. Hn's still a tough pitcher." 
Royals manager Tony Muser 

20th homer. 
The Yankoes, who have knocknd t.lw Rangnrs out of tlrn playoffs two of the last thnrn years. are 25-9 against Texas since tho beginning o/' the 19% division seri11s. 
Hamiro Mendoza ((,-7) pitched two scoreless innings fur tho win. Mariano Rivera pitched the 11th for his 36th save. VVith two runners on and two outs, Rivera struck out Ivan Rodriguez, who went O-for-6. 
Husty Greer went 3-for-5 with a two-run homer and two dou­bles for Texas. 
Trailing 7-6, the Rangers tied the game in the eighth inning on Lee Stevens' 20th homer with two outs. Yankees reliever Mike Stanton had 14 consecu­tive scoreless appearances 
isn't so sure. 
"Monty's 37 years old. llis stuff isn't what it used to be," Muser said. "Tonight I think he was a little antsy -trying to make perfect pitches." 
The Orioles won for the sixth time in eight gamc~s and hand­ed the Hoyals their fifth straight loss. 
Derck Wallace (0-1) relieved Montgomery sLarting the 10th and gave up a leadofl' single to B.J, Surhuff before Belli~ hit his 29th home run -and No. :-350 of his careor -ovc1r tlrn cnn­ter-liflld fence. 
before allowing the honrnr. 
Chuck Knublauch's I :Hh homnr, a thren-run shot, gave the Yanknes a 5-4 second­inning l<iad, limn New York ral­lied to tako a 7-6 advantago with u two-run fifth. Tino Martinez's HBl single put tlrn Yankees in front. 
Allen Watson pitclrnd 4 l .;3 innings ol' scornloss three-hit relief' for the Yankees after the Rangers knocked out starter David Cone in the second. 
Cone allow!ld six runs and seven hits in 1 2-3 innings ­his shortest since Aug. 17, 1997 against the Hangers, when he left after onn inning with arm problems. 
Texas starter Mike Morgan allowed six runs and live hits in four-plus innings. 
Today 4-7pm Stepan Center 

Win the right to purchase two tickets at $35 each for the Notre Dame vs. Michigan game on 9/4. Get your FREE lottery ticket at Stepan today beginning at 4pm. You must present your student ID to enter the lottery. One lottery ticket per ID, two IDs per student. Drawing will be held at 6:50pm. 
....... 
-

Wednesday, August 25, 1999

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
-
KWASHA HR SOLUTIONS MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES TAX & LEGAL SERVICES 
At PricewaterhouseCoopers, we offer you the opportunity to grow personally as well as professionally. After all, the more we grow together, the more everyone profits together. Now that you know something about us, why not tell us something about you-make tracks to our Online Career Profile. www.pwcglobal.com/ ocp 
fR1cEWA1ERHOUsf.{gJPERS I 
Join us. Together we can change the world.SM 
~ • I '1'1q l'rii c11·,1/l'rhot1~d· <KlfJPf" l U~ l'n<t'W,lt(>r~muwf 001wr.-. ff'lflr~ In lhl' U.S. inm of Pri1 t•w,11rrhn11.,rConprr\ lll' .,m111/h,-,, m,•m/JPn nl tin• wor/lhv1rk• l't,r r1-r,1tf'rhmN•Cnop,," or~,111i7,I/IOfl. f'rwrn',llf'rlmri~f•( ·n,1,:wr\ i.~ pmud lo/)(> ,m l\li'trrll,lf/\'P Af't"Jl11fr/t1,II Op11nrl111llf1• ('mp/01w, 
ASSURANCE AND BUSINESS ADVISORY SERVICES BUSINESS PROCESS OUTSOURCING ftNANCIAL ADVISORY SERVICES 
-

Wednesday, August 25, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
NFL --
Slllith set to play catch-up ball in Cincinnati ca01p 
CINCINNATI Now Lhat lrn 's gol a snvc11­ynar dna! worth as much as 
$:i(, million. Akili Smith has a lhrn1i weeks left before tho they've instituted these (pro­lul of' catching up lo do. Sl!llSOll opmwr. grams) whcrn he's spent a 
Thn Ci11ci11nali Bengals Smith. lhe last unsignPd good deal of time in Jurw and 4uartnrback o/' thn future member o/' the celebrated July in Cincinnati working plan,wd to arrivn at training quarlnrback class or '99, out," Steinberg said. "So the camp today with less than agreed to a contract Munday point is, he's received morn 
evening. lie intendl~d to fly to preparation time." 

Cin<:innati. sign the deal and /\s they did with Klingler, lwad to Gnorgcitown, Ky., to the Bengals slottPd Smith as a start making up !'or lost limn. backup in his l'irst season, 
"It  would  hoping  he'd  
havn be<in nicer ii' il hud lwen soonnr, gnnoral manager Miko Brown said. "It's  "ft would have been nicer {/'il had been sooner. It's behind us now. We've just got to catch up as best we can.  learn by watching .Jeff Blakn play. The quest.ion is whether he's f'ar 1rnough along to deserve the  
behind us now. Wn've just got lo  Mike Brown Bfmgals' general manager  No. 2 job. "Who knows how fast he  

catch up as 
best we can." 
Smith, chosnn third overall bohind quarterbacks Tim Couch and Donovan Mcl\Jabb, doesn't want lo rnpeat the nxpnrilmct\ that Bnngals quar­terback David Klingler had in 
I 9<J2. 
Klinger, the No. 6 pick over­all that s11ason, didn't sign until u1w w1rnk before' the sea­sun opmrnr. The Bcmgals madn him t.lrn starter 12 weeks into the soason, hut lw got s,u:knd IO tinrns by PilLsburgh in his debut and never panned out. 
Smith, who liko Klingler is represo11t<1d by agent Leigh Stninborg, has a few things in his favor. Unlike Klingler, he got to work out wilh the Bengals lwfore training camp startod, so hn's not as l'ar bohind. 
"In tho last couple or years, 

can pick it up'1 " rnach Bruce Coslet suid bcd'orn the contract agreement was rcrnched. "lle's pnitty bright. lle's a couple of' years older than a normal rookie, so he's pretty mature. And I think Im probably has lrnnn working with the stuff we sent him, but that's not the samP as bning on tlw field tinw af'tnr time af'llir time." 
lie wasn't on the field because Steinberg and the Bengals were at a philosophi-• cal impassn. 
Steinberg represented Dan Wilkinson and Ki-Jana Cartor, who w<1rc Nu. 1 overall draf'1 picks in the 1990s and got cut­ting-edgo "voidable yoars" contracts l'rom the Bengals with little trouble. 
Steinbnrg wanted a deal for Smith that was comparable to what oth11r Lop young quartHr­
backs got. Unhappy with how 
the Wilkinson and Carter 
deals turned out, Urn Bengals 
dug in this time. 
The team initially pushed l'or 
a dtrnl with incentives based 
heavily upon how well lhn 
Bengals pn rfo rrn. Tim two 
;;ides ended up at odds ovnr 
what typos of incentives would 
lrn included. 
Slcinborg l'lew lo Cincinnati 
on Sunclay and mnt for 1 li 
hours ovor two days brf'orn 
g<iUing a deal that. indudns a 
$ I0.8 million signing bonus 
and will pay up lo $5(1 million 
if' Smith reaches all ol' his 1rnr­
f'orm ancH goals along llrn way. 
The deal contains one void• 
abln year, meaning it will 
aul.omalically shorten to six 
years if he's in l'or J5 pnrcnnl 
of tlrn plays in his first y1iar or· 
45 percent any following ynar. 
Smith's contract includns 
basn salaries of' $17 :i,000; 
$250,000; $'.125,000; 
$3:i0,000; $375,000; $400,000 and $450,000. Various ciscala­Lors would push those num­lmrs higher. 
The first round of' nscalators clicks in when he passns for 1,60 I yards, thci s1icond wlwn lrn throws !'or 2,500 yards and appoars in halt' ol' the plays. 
The final two rounds o/' escalators have Smith l'inish­ing in tlw top five in various passing categories, and the Bengals winning a pluyolT ga m n. som n l h in g t he Bcrngals haven't done sine!' llrn 1990 SIHlSOl1. 
"We gave hem, they gave 
-
thern," Brown said. "Anyway, il's all snt." 
SENIOR ''KICKOF'F'.,, 

You could Win a 19" Color TV, VCR, or CD Player/Or JO minutes Ofyour fime Introducing the newest technology in the job search 
Ge°.~,---=
-~-~'i:J. 
·---,,::IT
"" --~--~--~-­

Internet, Recruiting, Interviewing, Scheduling, Hotlink 
•Register 
to win a TV, VCR, or CD player 

•Register 
for Go IRISH 

•Find 
out about Jobs and Internships 

•Learn 
ahout career objectives 

•Mark 
your calendar for workshops and programs 

•Target 
over 350 companies recruiting ND grads 

•Get 
dates for Career & Job Fairs 


Attend One of the Following 
Tuesday, Ausust 24th -6:45 p.m., Room 118 DeBartolo Hall Wednesday, Ausust 25th -6:30 p.m., Hesburgh Library Auditorium Thursday, August 26th -6:30 p.m., Montgomery Theater 
Sponsored by: The Career Cente1; Flanner Hall (formerly Career & Placement Services) Phone: (219) 631-5200 Website: w..,,vw.nd.edu~ndcps/ 
...... 
., 
-
r 
Wednesday, August 25, 1999

page 26 Thf' Obmver . SPORTS 
WNBA 
Perrot memorial service held at Compaq Center 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON 

For three seasons, Darcie Johnson has sal in Section 120 at the Compaq Center, seven rows up from the Houston Comets bench, cheering with friends Petra Davis and Lori Self. 
ThP. trio showed up at Kim Perrot's memorial sr,rvicr~ in Houslon on Mouday IJl celebrate the point guard's life. Thl; :i2• yeur-old Perrol was buried in her hometown of' Lafayeltt., La. 
..We felt like we needed do• sure, too," said Johnson. dressed in a red. white and blue Comets shirt, with Perrot's No. 10 pinned on her chesl. 
The three were among 1,000 
who poured into Houston's 
Second Baptist Church LO relive 
special moments from tlw point 
guard's life. 
Tlw Houston Comets player 
died Thursday, six months after 
she was diagnosed with lung 
cancer that spread to her brain. 
"I wouldn't bu here today if 
she hadn't fought me," joked a 
misty-eyed Comets coach Van 
Chancellor. who recalled !'or the 
1,000 in attendance how he 
"miscoached" Perrot their first 
year together. 
lie met her just two years ago 
at a Houston high school gym, 
where he was holding tryouts 
for the new WNI3A franchise. 
What he saw, he didn't like. 
"Too wild. too small and too 
everything," Chancellor said, 
laughing at how he underesti­
mated the 5-foot•5 Perrot and 
continued to do so even though that first season ended with a WNBA championship. 

Chancellor reassessed his mis­Lakes after he received a letter from two fans. 
"Van Chancellor, you are mis­coaching Kim Perrot," the letler mad. "Point guards like her are hard to find and we are writing Les Alexander to say that coaches likP. you are a dime a dozen." 
Diagnosed with cancer last February. Perrot died in Houston 011 Thursday. 
.. Kim was special. Kim used her gifts to the f'ul!Pst," said Leslie Alexander, owner ol' the Comets and the Houston Rockets. "She never gave up on her dreams." 
ChancP.llor said he and Perrot 
often joked that their great skill 
was responsibll:l for Urn success 
two-time MVP Cynthia Cooper 
enjoyed. 

When Chancellor teased back, 
asking how he ligured she was 
involved, Perrot quickly 
responded: "You call all the 
plays and I'm passing her all the 
basktitballs." 
Blinking away tears. 
Chancellor softly remarked: 
"What a fun person. There will 
never be another Kim Perrot, in 
my mind." · 
Couper, who was at Perrot's 
bedside when she died last 
week, said it was her best 
friend's generous spirit and love 
of people that left a murk on the 
world. 

"The reason she touched so 
many lives is because Kim had a 
courageous heart," Cooper said. 
Before and aller her diagno-

BIATHlON 
. SUNDAY.AUGUST29 
3:00 PM AT ST. JOE BEACH 
l_// · 
1/2 MILE SWIM •
• 
& 2MILERUN REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS 
ARSITY 
TEAM & INDIVIDUAL NO~ ARSITY TEAM & INDIVIDUAL 
R-=-~ 

www.nd.edu/ ~rec sport 

Notre Dame Football Coach Bob Davie Live!! 
at Damon's Clubhouse 
Wednesday, August 25th @ 7:30pm 
RIBS•PIIIMERIB ~­
ANO MORE ,,,,....,_ 

--, 
'A._~ A DINING
(Y-EVENT! 
See the taping of "The Bob Davie Show" at Damon's Clubhouse. 52885 US 31 South Bend (219)-272-5478 
Win 2 llckets to the August 28th 'N.D. vs Kansas' game & Notre Dame Apparel! 
sis, Perrot made more than 200 public appearances. often at schools. where she stressed the 
importance of' working hard to ing the Comets' trndemark red achieve lifelong goals. or carrying Comets mementos, Hundreds of fans. many wear-filled pews. 

Micheal A. Aubrey Erich E. Bangert Erica L Bernhanlt Emily E. Bienko Bradley R. Charron Kathy Coates Marc C. Defile Sarah A. Dilling Katherine M. Dorn 
Right now, there has never been abetter time to be part of Arthur Andersen. Creativity and innovation. Enduring personal and professional relationships. The freedom to bu~d and grow. Credentials that are admired and sought out worldwide. Commitment And great rewards. 
Whether you're interested in Assurance and Business Advisory Services, Business Consulting, or Tax and Business Advisory Services, Arthur Andersen offers countless opportunities for making our world a part otyours. 
Arthur Andersen would like to welcome the students of Notre Dame and St Mary's to a new year of learning and advancement 
We hope you made the best of your summer like the following students who took advantage of everything Arthur Andersen has to offer. 
Steven M. Flamingo  Charles P. McKenna  James H. Shacklett  
James W. Frank  Elizabeth McShane  Garett S. Skiba  
Susan Fritts  Jennifer Nall  Shane D. Slominski  
R.J, Hottovy  Angela Patrizio  Stephanie M. Staub  
Kim Jakob  Chari ie Prisco  Benjamin P. Staffer  
John E. Lenocker  Timothy E. Riley  Jennifer M. Stirk  
Robert N. Marting  Cas A. Schneller  Robert Warn  
Wilbert E. Matthews  John L Schwager  Rebecca M. Welch  
Patrick A. Mccusker  Erica M. Sciola  Christopher S. Wilde  

ARTHUR ANDERSEN 
Helping In Ways You Never Imagined 
For more information, visrrwww.arthurandersen.com or forward your resume to: Arthur Andersim UP, Attn: ND/Jt, 33 W Monroe Street MS02-02, Chicago, IL 60603. Fax: (312) 931-0284. Arthur Andersen LLP is an equal opportunity employer. 

Notre Daine vs. Michigan Saturday, September 4 

Buses leave at 9:00 a.m. from the Stepan Center Game Time: 3:30 p.m., Michigan Time Tickets: $20.00 at the Lafortune Information Desk 
Bus tickets will go on sal~ starting at 10:00 a.m. on August 26. For more information, contact Student Activities at 631-7309 
A lottery for ND Students interested in purchasing football tickets for the Michigan game will be held by SUB on August 25. 1999. Please call 631-7757 for more details. 
Wednesday, August 25, 1999 
The Observer . SPORTS page 27 
MLB ­
Jones leads Atlanta to 6-2 victory over Cincinatti 
A..ociatcd Press 
1\TLANT,\ 

t:hippnr Jorws was cowrPcl in grass and dirt stains. Tlw ldt kncn or his pants was slm:ddcd. In a way. lw sytnl)O(i:r.1•d Llw grit shown by his ,a1tir<i t1iam. 
DnspitP a rnsh or injurit•s, llw 
i\llarlla Brav!'s havP 111ai11tai11nd 
llwir plac<i atop th11 NL. beating tlic Cindnnali Hcds (l-2 Monday night as .Jorrns drovn in thnw 
runs  and  K,win  Millwood  
µitched  Lhrn1:-hit  ball  over  
s1wcn innings.  

"This is a lot of' l'un," said .lonns, who hit his :nrd homnr and had Lwo of Atlanta's s1wcn stolnn hasns. "It's nico to conw tu tlw hall1lark i11 .July, Au~ust, 
TUTORS NEEDED 

Would you like to perform a valuable service and be paid tor it? If you have demonstrated proficiency in select courses, please come to an information and sign-up meeting on Wednesday, August 25, 4:00 PM, or Thursday, August 26, 7:00 PM, 300 Brownson Hall. 
If you are unable to attend, please email Celine.M.Hamilton.2@nd.edu for an appointment. 
Positions needed for all levels of Accounting, Biology, Chemistry, Finance, Languages, Math, Philosophy, Sociology, Theology 
OFFICE OF ACADEMIC SERVICES FOR STUDENT-ATHLETES 
Soptember and have it b!J like a 
playoff game. In a sense, all or 
tlrnse ,, gamos arn playoff 
games 
Tlw Bravos have survivod 
despil!\ losing four players lo 
season-ending injuri(JS and ill­
1wss, not Lo mention assorted 
otlwr maladies. 
Sixteen-game winner Greg 
Maddux has a chipped bone in 
his pitching wrist, and relirwer 
Hudy Seanez went on the DL 
after Monday's gamn when a 
bone scan rovcaled a stress 
fradurn in his right elbow. 
"No one in this clubhouse has 
complained or used that as an 
excuse," Millwood (14-7) said. 
"And w1i're not going to start 
now." 
Thu Braves. doing anything to win, shook up Cincinnati by coming within onn stolen base of tlrn franchise rr.cord. Jones also scored on a wild pitch that rolled no more than . feet from the plate. 
'"lkgardless of whose fault it is, it shouldn't happen that many times in a gaml'," said Beds catdrnr Eddie Taubcmme, who was so shell-shocked Im lost track of all those steals. "H's not a good thing when a tnam steals six bags off you," hf-l said, failing to account for the s1wm1th one. 
The NL's best home team, Atlanta improved its mark at Turner Field to 43-21 by cool­ing off the Big Hoad Ma~:hine. The Heds had won :B of their previous 44 games away from home and still have the top road mark (38-18) in the majors. 
Atlanta remained a half'-game 
ahead of' the Mets in the NL 
East, and Cincinnati stayed a 
hair-game behind Houston in 
thn Central standings. 
Despite Lim p1~nnant-race 
ramifications. the crowd of 
31.0 I 6 was the smallest at Turner Fir!ld since June 1. 
Allanta scored two runs in 
the first, third and seventh ­
and Jones was at the center of 
all three innings. 
After the lhids grabbed a 1-0 lead in their first at-bat. the Braves third baseman went the opposite way for his 33rd homer, a two-run drivP. off Brett Tomko (4-7) that landed in tho first row of the left-11eld seats. 
In the third, Jones doubled into the right-field corner to make it 3-1, then came home on Andruw .Jones' HBI single. 
Atlanta ran the Hcds ragged in the seventh. Bret Boone led off with a double and stole third while Chipper Jones was laking ball four. Jones then stole sec­ond bef'orn Boone came home on Brian Jordan's sacrifice fly, his l 00th RBI or the season. 
With third base open, Jones promptly stole it. Then, when reliever Stan Helinda skipped a pitch in the dirt and frazzled catcher Eddie Taubensee turned the wrong way looking for the ball, Jones broke f'or home. 
Taubensee linally located the ball, just behind the plate, but Jones flew over Belinda's attempted tag and tumbled to the ground, rolling almost to the stands while manager 
Bobby Cox jumped from the 
dugout to make sure his star 
was OK. Ile was. 
"Chippe1' is having an MVP­
type year," Cox said. 
"We wanted Lo bn aggres­sive," Jones said. "We felt like we could run on Tomko. Guys got good jumps in good situa­tions." 
Millwood started the game 
like he didn't plan to be around 
very long. 
Mike Canrnron Ind off with a drive that Andruw Jones caught at the 400-foot sign in centnr field. 
Michael Tucker walk1~d and came home when Greg Vaughn, breaking an O-for-18 slump. doubled to the gap in left-cen­ter. 
"ll really didn't bother me," .... Millwood said. "In most of my games latnly, when sonrnthing has happened to me, it's hap­pened early. Then I seem to set­tle down and pitch a good ball­game." 
He retired 15 of' the nnxt 16 hitters, a streak that was bro­ken up in the fourth when Jones bobbled a routine grounder by Barry Larkin and the play was charitably scored a hit. 
Michael Tucker had the other hit against Millwood, a sixth­inning homer. 
The Braves have won four straight f'rom Cincinnati at Turner Field this season, limit­ing the Heds to six runs and 14 hits in those games. Allanta is 20-4 vs. Cincinnati over the last three seasons. 
"I can't understand it," Jones 
has the BIGGEST SELECTION of the BEST BRANDS at the LOWEST PRICES, GUARANTEEDI 
!) ~ ~-Neila 
,,_~,.-.;lii.bw: ~s•~ 
Rczczbok 
Sl-llfflAno·
~ 
•

...AND MANY MORE! 
IKIDSA us I 

@ IMEIJER I 
::; EDISON LAKES PAAKWAV 
ffi~ 
IFRIDAY'S I 
I KOHL'S 
!BOADEASJ 


.. 
4520 Grape Road Mishawaka, IN 46545 
-
219.243.4789 
r 
I I 
r 
iI page 28 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, August 25, 1999 
=========================================================================================================== 
-MLB 
Walbeck drives in game winner; Anaheim tops Detroit 
Garret Anderson bq{an thr The outcome was decided long er since John Doherty, another scored on Mo Vaughn's infield Associated P resse 
rally against Doug Brocail 14-4) al"Ler Detroit's Dave Burkowski, a pitcher, committed three on July out. with his l"ourth single of the rookie making his eighth big 23. 199;{ against Kansas City. Jim Edmonds hit a run-scoring ANAHEIM, Calif. game. Troy Glaus drnw a one­league start, committed three The Angels took a 1-0 lead in double in the fourth to extend 
Matt Walbcck hit a one-out out walk and Walbeck lined a errors in tile first two innings, the first thanks to Borkowski's Anaheim's lead to 4-1. single in the eighth inning to single to right to drive in hHlping the Angels score three tlrst two errors. The 22-year-old Detroit's Karim Carcia hit a drive in the go ahead run Anderson. who scored for the unearned runs. right-hander muffed Trent two-run homer in tlrn sixth, but Monday night as the Anaheim thirrl time. Tho three errors -first mis­Ourrington's leadoff grounder, the Angels got a run in tlrn bot­Angels beat U1e Detroit Tigers 6-Troy Perl'ival {3-2) blanked tht! cues of Rorkowski's earner -and then threw wildly on a pick­tom of the inning on an RBI sin­
5. Tigers in the final 1 1/3 innings. wen\ the most by a Detroit play-off attempt. Durrington lat()!' gle by Anderson. 
!. 
I I I 
f 
.. 
..... 
.. 
' ' ,Jl't,> ., 

. . . . . . ',:. ·,. 
>things:-con watt. But picking up the latest style~(lh)n~r .(yofrW}hrnight hove to do today. 
. ·. . -... : 1-', ;,.:· 
. . ' . ' . . ,f;,, 
STORE NEAREST CAMPUS: In Mish9w0Kd~gy .... Or coHJ·BW' 




Wednesday, August 25, I 999 The Observer . SPORTS page 29 
.-·-·-----~=-==============---=========================================================================== 
-
Tony Hice and replaced him was more successful than Hon with Kent Graham, Craham l'owlus, there still was a q ucs­
Irish 
thrnw three inwrcnplions in tio n mark al quarterback tlrn 2 l -20 loss. entering tlw 1998 s1•ason.
continued [rom page 32 
Tho noxt wook, the lt•ish lost Also,· last year's season to Llw llurricamis in Miami, to 1wu11d with lltrce losse~ and a wrback blundur in tlw I0th end their rogular season on a Gator Bowl appearance. tlrnir 
ganH' of llH• s!'ason 
sour note. first appearance there since 
Trailing 14-7 at half'tinw to 
Last your parallels llrnse 1976. 
1'<11111 Staw in Buavnr Stadium, 
campaigns. Although lluurtn In tlw 11th ganrn of' 1998,
Holtz h1•11dwd quarterback 
,,ith one loss and a chance al a BCS appnarance, Davie was also involvcu in a quarterback controvon,y. 
With three s1~conds IP-fl in a apparent win over LSU, Davie k11pt Jarious Jackson op tlrn f'iold, whnrn he was injured while atL11mpting to take a safoty. · 
Tho following weok, likB in 1987. Uw loam ffow lo a warm climate (USC), only to suffer another setback. · 
llavi1~ is·not letting tlw focus of' t.lw season blur. llis con­rPnlralion is Oil solely Oil Saturday's hom1, opener against Kansas. 
Although Kansas .is the undordog, Davin was quick to point out Iha! tlw Jayhawks arn an nxplosivn club that can causi1 t.rnuliln for his team. 
"It's really important to k1wp your 1iyn 011 tho target. Yo\1 rn11lly don't know what you have yet, especially in col­l" gn l'o o t b1t 11," I) av in s a icl. "ThP othPr night our players w1:rn watching Gn:1)11 Bay and· ])pnvcr on Monday Nighl Football. We don't have Urn luxury ol' playing tho exhibi­

JOHN DAILY/The Observer 

tion games. Even high school teams scrimmage against Free safeties Justin Smith (#29) and Deke Cooper (#1) work each otlrnr. But that's what on coverage drills during practice last week. Cooper, who has makus coil<)ge football excit­seen action in each of his first three seasons, will start at ing." safety on Saturday. 
Irish Notes: sive backfield. side .Joey Gotlwrall. Davie said 
. Freshman Joey llildbold has Jones rnminus him of Greg 
. On Lim injury front, del'en­Lhe edge at starting punter f'or llill, whom he coached at siv1) linenrnn Tony Weaver is Saturday. Senior Jim Sanson Texas A&M and now plays for cloubtf'ul f'or Saturuay's game will once again assume the the St. Louis Hams. Jones is cl un lo a sprained left kne11. placekicking duties for tlrn currently battling junior Lineman l.ancP Legree Irish. Terrance lloward for third sprained his right knee Aug. . There arc two honorary string. 
I 0th and is oul for the K,tnsas captains for the game. 1956 . Bobby Brown and gamn. lleisman Trophy winner Paul Gctherall am expected to start 
. Tlw thin cornerback posi­Hornung will s11rve as Notro at split end, but senior Haki tion is tho biggest area of co11-Dame's captain, while the Nelson and sophornorns .lavin cB r 11 on Urn Irish defense. "Kansas Comet" Gale Sayers, llunter and David Givens am 
JOHN DAILY/The Observer With Brock Williams out for a Jayhawk alum, will be on expected lo s1rn playing time. Freshman Joey Hildbold, pictured here during last Urn year. Dnve.ron llarpllr and the Kansas sidolirrns. . Seniors John Merandi and Cli!Tord Jefferson will join . Freshman tailback Julius Mike Gandy were the) only
Wednesday's practice, has impressed head coach Bob Davie 
safeti11s DBke Cooper and Jones is likely to handle kick­returning offensive linornen
and will start at punter in Saturday's home opener with 
A'Jani Sanders in the defen-off returns for the Irish along-who saw consiuerabl1\ playing 

Kansas. 
Ge1 ready to step out 
ot line and dance 
Salsa, Cumbia 
& Merengue 
with: 
~;;>@~ 
•M-ic_h.ia•n•a•'s-H•o•tt•e•st•s•a•l•so•••s•a•n•d 
. 

( •. ----,. ' 
/~' -· 
/'
\. # 

"--etf/3 LM/PtN~
' 
-(' ,.,,,E. u~r;OLNWIJY. (Ovru 8END -A••' ' I
Thursday August 26th 9 ~ 
•. , , ~ LA1'1... OAt\U LCSSO~S i&tGI_. A1' 8, 
before suffnring .a shoulder injury that sideli1wd him l'or thrnn ganws. Jin
Irons 

camn in off the bench in the final four contests, bul this season Im is once
continued from page 32 
again rompeting for a starting job. In the J'undanrnntals and the footwork, I addition, Notre Damn's switch l'rom n foe! morn comf'urtable." :{-4 defense to a 4-3 dc~fense will While Irons was originally reluctant accommodate Irons' move to Lim !inn. to make the switch from linebacker to Irons, who stands (1-feet, :"i-inclrns defensive end, he is now enjoying tall, has put on some weight in tlw off 
playing on the line. season and is up to 275 pounds, prob­"You can just ably courtesy of thn attack: you can play four to five pnanul
"Atjirst /last spring/

on instinct," Irons butler and jelly sand­said. "At linebacker when I moved to the posi­wiclrns Im says Im eats ­you am always look­at night. Ile came to
tion /defensiue line], I 

ing into llrn back­Notrn Dame weighing
wasn't comfortable at all,

lfold at the tailback just 218 pounds, but and tlwn Lho guard. but coach Mattison and was up to 2 :iO last 
You alwavs have Lo lhe rest ofthe coaching year. 
dnal will; linemen ") didn't think I'd gPl
staffhave done a

coming at you and this hig, hut with tlH• rutting you, but at great job in teaching weight program hem def1•nsivn end, .it's j1mdamentals." and just my appct.ito, just you and Lhe I 'vn grown a lot," tackl11 or you and lri111s said. ''1'111 clnfi­
Grant Irons

thP tighl ond. IL nit1ily comfortable rnak1!s .it a 01rn-011-defensive end with t}w wnight. My DIW battln each play. quicknnss has PV<rn 
My rnads am cut incrnasPd. Coach down and I can focus 011 llw tackle Mickny Marotti und tlw rnst of' tlH) 
.. 
and tlw tight Pnrl." staff havn done a groat job in not only Last scrnso11, Irons started the f'irst dnv1dopi11g our strnngtli and sizn, but f'ivtl gauws al outside rush li1rnbacknr, our quickrwss as w1:II." 
•.:.ove1 c110,ge Mu~I ue 2i 1c entE· 
~ .......__,,,, 

' i" 
Wednesday, August 25, 1999

page 30 The Observer . SPORTS

MIAA schools 
Adrian College 
Adrian. Ml 
···········Albion College 
Albion. Ml 
0.i!11~~~~:16}, • ' Hope College
Holland.Ml 

Kalamazoo College.
Kalamazoo, Ml 
Olivet College
Olillet. Ml 
st~~ag~~:l~~e 
• Provtsionai memberfor Cali a11il' 
. ter sports .. 

1998-99 seasons. "Every sport should see 
improvement athletically and the College. Six new tennis ai:ademically this year," Cook courts are part of this year's said. "l think that we have plans. proven that we are real con­"The students, the adminis­
more. We need these things upgraded so that we can be a contender for a Mli\A champi­onship down the road." 
Defiance College, which also completed two years as a pro­visional member in the MIAA. will not become a permanent nrnmbcr. 
Defiance accepted member­ship in the Heartland Conference for the l l)<J<J-2000 seasons. 
Defiance teams will comp(~te in fall and winter sports in thu 
MIM. 

-
.. 
-
.. 
MIAA 
continued from page 32 
tive for 1998-99. "This is not some high school girls gym class. The move to the MIAA will make athletes appreciate that." 
Recruiting already is benefit­ing from conference member­ship. 
"We have several strong freshmen coming in who will make an imnwdiate impact in every sport," she said. 
Stronger and more. effective recruiting efforts may imµrovi; team rankings within the MIAA. 
· As provisional members, vol­ley ba l I and tennis finished third. gplf fourth. soccer, soft­ball and track fifth. swimming sixth, cross country eighth and basketball ninth during the 
tc nders in this 

"Every sport should
conference, and W!) aren't here see improvement to be anvune's athletically and acade­
doormat.;, 

mically this year."
The move will also force athletic ti;ams Jini Cook to rise to higher 
Saint Mary's athletic director 
l1wels of' compe­
tition, Sarnreta 
said. 

"This will force us to keep to a standard," Samreta said. "Because it oilers us more competition. we will be able to develop competitive rivalries with other schools. It will deli­nitely make all of us better athletes." 
Permanent membership should also help sports become a bigger priority for 
FULBRIGHT COMPETITION 2000-2001 
Attention Current Seniors!!!!! 
If you arc interested in graduate study and research abroad, don't miss the informational meeting THURSDAY, AUGUST 26 -6:00 p.m. 126 DeBartolo with Professor Alain Toumayan,· Advisor 
tration and prospective students are creating this demand," Cook said. "We need renovations to our cquip­m en t, office space, locker 
room and 



Get an inflatable chair for only $9.95 =::,..., .. 
with the pun:h11R of II Cliffs l\lotl!S book 
To order clKlir, e11II 877-592--31115 or visit WWW.dlff's.cum Cliffs Ntlbls are avaikllfle wherever llooks are sold 
Academic Clubs 
Alphu Epsilon Del1u Amcricm1 Cllemicil Sociely American lnstitu1c of ,\r.;rnnauti1.::s & Astrornfutil.:s Amcril'a1, l11stil.l1lt> <lf Cl1~n1iral Engineer, Anieric:.tu S,H.:icty 0£ Civil Engineer!\ Amcri<.·a11 So\.:icty ,>f Mcchai1i!..'.i.ll Ei1gi11cL:rs Notre Dame r\11tlm1pology Club Noire D,1mt' Arts Collective Notre Dame Hioh1g}' Cluh Computer Applk~ltiuns Honor So1.:kty Noire Da111e Crnnpuler Club EM3-Mu10rity Engineering Sm.:icty Entrepreneur Cluh Fin,,nce Cluh 11f Noire Da111e uu Lu, 
Joml Engineering Cm1nl·il League of Blm.:k Husrness Studt!nts Notn: Dame M,magcme111 Information S,Ystems Club !\llllft! Dn111c Untlergra<luttte Markeling C"luh The Medieval Club Mexic~111 Amcriean Engineers an<l Scientist/Society Df Hispanil'. P1ufessirnwl Engi111:crs Minori1y Prc-Meuicul Sucicly Noire Dame Mu Alpha Tilelu Na1irnrnl Sl>t.:icry of Blad. Engineer:-. ND~,ign Unhersily of Notre Oumc Phy~i~s Club Noire Dame Pi Sigma Alphu Pr!.!-Law Sodcly Pre-Physical Therapy Cluh Prc-Profc,-.,si1111al S,Kicly Pre-Vet Club Psi Ch, Notre. D,1mt! Psychology Club Notre Dume Scit!1H.:e-8usiness Cluh­Science & Unre•l'-Oll Club Noire Dame S11rie1y of Autonwtivl.! Engineer:-. Soc1c1y of Wumcn Engincer}i ND Swdcm Cuu1Kil on lnt'I Business Dev1::lop111~111 Tau Bela P, 
Organizations 
Clu:,;s of 2000 ·(Senior Class Councll) Class of 200 I !Junior Class Council) Clas., of 2002 (Sopho11101c Class Councill 
Club Cmin.hnal!Oll c()UllL'il 
Debate Team Studcnr Gt,vernmc111 StuUi:nt Union Board 

Activities Night 
Preliminary Listing ofParticipating Organizations: 
Athletic Clubs 
Bookslore Baskcth;d I Notre Dame !:3owling Club 
Notre D,unc Boxin~ CIL1h Notre Dame Womcn'!-i Boxing Cluh Nou-c D1.1mi: Climb!ng Cluh 
No!l'C Dume Cricket Cluh Cydi11g Cllll-l ,\JD/SMC r.qucs1ria11 Cluh Notre ll"111c field Hockey Club Notn: Dame Figure Skuting Club The Noire Dame-SI. Mary·, Gy11111:is1ic., Club :slotre D,une .ludo Club "1111re Dume Manial Arts lnsti1u1c N ROTC Colorguard NROTC Drill Teum 
University of Noire IJnmt! Porn Pon Squ~u.J 
lbnger Challenge Team Noire Dame Roueo Club Nmre Dm11c Rowmg Cluh Women's Running Club 
Notre [)~1mc/Sainl Mury's Sailing Club Null'e Dame Ski Cl ul,rremn Noire Dame Tai Chi/Kung ru Cluh Noire LJamc Ullima1c Cluh Men. s Club Volleyhull Men·s Waler Polo Cluh Women's W,1ter ~olo 
W(1rld Tuckwon<.lo rcUcrntion Cluh 
Ethnic Clul.Js 
Asian Aml!ril·an A!-isocialion Asian l111crna1ional Sm:ie1y Australia Cluh Ballet h>lklorico A,ul Y Oro Black Cultural 1\11s Coum:il Filipino f\m~ril:all Studclll Orgu11i1.al1l,11 Ge-rnwn Club Hawaii Club lnJiH Assm.·iauon of Notre Dame lntemali(>11ul Stu<le111 Org;mization lwlian Cluh 
Ji.ipun Club Korean Studt:nt As:-.oeia1io11 
La Al1ai11.a Le Cerde FrnnL'ais (French Cluh) Nt1tional Associalil11l for the Advam:l!111cnL of Colored l'copl~ Native A111cr1L'Ull Stud11l"t As:-.oeia1irn; ol Not1c Dame Noire Dame Pulish Cluh Spanish Club 
Vic1n.1mesc Student As:mdation 
Special Interest Clubs 
Air force ROTC 
Univl!r:-;i1y of Notre D~11nc A11w1i.:ur Radio Club 
U11ivcristy of No1n: D~1me Bitgpipc Bantl ND/SMC Ballroom Oance Cluh Baptist Colkg.iate Ministry Campus f'ellowship of lhe Holy Spiri1 The I1·i,h Chess Club Children or Mary Notre Dame Chol'alc Colh:gi.: Dcmot:r,1ls nf Notre Dame Univen;Jty of No1n: J);1mc ColJL'gc Republicans El Corn Primaver.1 Uc Nnestr~1 Seuuru ND Him Soc,cty First Cla:i-.s Steppers of Notre lJmne Flip S1ue Notre Dame Folk Choir U11iwrsi1y of No(rc Dame Cike Cluh Univer~ity of Notre Dame Guitar Player· s As~odution Nolie Dame H.u1dhcll Chrnr Nmre Dame Humor Artists The Irish Dancing Club 
Thi.! Notre Dame Juggling Cluh 
Notre Dame Knight:-. or the lmmw..·ula11.1 Notre Dame Lmux Users Group Mock Trial A!'isoci.rtion Notre Dame Model Uni led Nauons Cluh Odyssey uf 1hc Mind Pusqut:riJla Eusl Music.:ul Company The St. blwurd·s Hall PL,yers ~niv\!'rsity of Notre D,une Shcn;.migans Show Choi1 
Univcrsily of Notn: Dillll!.: Si rem; Sltu.Jc111-Alumni R~lations Group 
Snrdcllt Pl:1ycrs 
Swing CJ uh 

NlHrc Dame T(>astn1astcrs lnternatit1nL1I 
Troup Notre Dame Notre Omm::! Yoil:'cs o( Fti'ith Gospel Choir 
Wo111.:11 ·.s Liwrgk:al Choir 
Service/ Social Action Clubs 
AIDS Awareness/SWAT 
Amcric.111 Cann~r Society 
An111c~1y lntcrna1ionaJ Notn: Dame B~sl Huddics Big. Brothers/Big Sisters of Notre Dume/Saini Mou-y·s 
Cmnpu:-i Alli~mtl! for Rat1c-Eliminulion 
Notre Dam~-Saint Mary's Campus Girl Si.:outs ND/SMC Cenler for 1hc Homeless ChdJn,n·s Gmtq> 
Notre D:.11111: Cin,:k K 
Community Allimu.:c to Serve l-lisp;.1i1ic!\ 
Educational Outreach Pmgn.1m 
Experil!ntial Learning Council 
Fc111inist:i for Life University of Notre Dame Fir"t Atd Services T1.:a111 
Frn,th.lrnn: 
hm :mU Leum Cou1H.:il 
Notre Dame l-lahital for Hurn.:111i1y 
N111re Dame Hospkc Chapler 
Hugh ()'Brian Ynulh roundation Ahtm111 Assm:iation 
Tl1e Ju,1ior Achicvcme111 Chib of Noire Damt' No!re Dume KnighlS ofColumhus Council No. 1-l77 Logan Ccnlcr(Council for 1he Re1unledl Mananlial Memoi·,al lfo,puul Medical E\plorcr, Ms. Winrd Day Prngram Team Nt:ighborhoud Study l-klp Pr1.)gr,1m Progressive Stmlent Allianre Reeychn' hish No1rc Dame Righi 10 Jifc SI. Joseph"sChupin Slrccl Healthcure Clinic Notre D;,un~ St1int Vi11cc11l de Patil Association Special Friends Club Student Tutorial Education Program Slu<lc111s Agai11st Destructive Dcrisions(.SAl)D) Stu<lenls for Environmcnwi Action 
Stuuents for Responsible Business Super Sibs Trident Naval Sodcty 
UnivL"rsity Young Life 
Wumcn·s Resoun:l! Ct:nll!r 
\Vorld Hunger Coi.llltion 
Student Businesses 
Cluh Coordination Council Debute Team Slu<.knt Govcrnmc11t 
S1uden1 Union Bourd 
Student Mediu 
Dome (Ycarhook) 
Sdtolnstic Maga1.inc WSND (AM rnuio ~la!ionl WVFI (FM rnuio s1a1io111 
Activities Night will be held on Tuesday, August 31 * Joyce Center* 7 PM-9 PM For More Info, Visit www.nd.edu/...,sao/an99/ 
Wt·Jne~day, August 25, 1999 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
D 1\\1':.$E 1100 Gv-<s /1..Rc -=-sr \3Ui)':.., W/\YMe. 
U\ip . .:ior::. ~ 
r---~ 
4_-s­
tf?.,,,,,~. \\' ' 

Fox TROT 
The Observer . TODAY page 31 
TOM KEELEY 

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM 
T \,JoUI.D 1)0 AIJYiH\!Jt., 
\"OK "T!-15-,,E: CN'I'$, "I. 'vJOU!..D $TAfJO [;,'{ T11EI"\ llv ,1-IF.;"-lo~sr Po~S,B~E;. S\1'U,\TKlN. 1: vJ ov~D LRo'.:.!, n~il-Rl:tv 
1)€:,E:RT!>. ·:i:. wou.. o 
~f'oic. 11-\EM. 
,;f1~11.
l «>;;; 
I 
.J) 
BILL AMEND
(DILBERT HAs Movrn rn THE V1EwP01N1 PAGEs.) 
T~vST ME. S\-IE'J..L WE.'RE OE'i~oY IT, Too. REcoROtN6 I ON THE 

They were never he~rci fro,.., Clgqin. 

T\-lis video 

,. 
tare is Q!I t'ne1t rerrie1inS. 


(I IQQ9 IM Am-l!nc!IOtr.i ti',' UluWtrs;I P1ass Svnd1w1te 
beam, 1@nd.edu 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS  31  Resulted in  
1  Words from  34  Nobel Institute  
sponsors  city  
4  Surgery  35  Cookie holder  
souvenirs  37  Wax collector  
e Start of a series  38  Official with a  
14  Pose for  gun  
pictures  41  Under debate  
15  Deejay Casey  43  Fess (up to)  
18  Lag behind  44  Hooded snake  
17  Sun. speech  45  Carry on  
18  Start of a  46  High boot  
question to  48  Question, part 3  
ponder  52  Navy flier?  
20  Some poker  55  A handshake  
settlements  begins it  
22  _Gay  58  "Exodus" hero  
(W.W. II plane)  57  Brew lovers'  
23  Big month-for  buys  
pol. campaigns  60  Editor's notation  
24  Poison plant  61  End of the  
28  "Calendar Girl"  question  
singer  64  Brits' thank-yous  
28  Question, part 2  65  A cigar has one  

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


66 "Beau (Gary Cooper classic) 
67 Subject of 
psychoanalysis 68 Chatty bird 69 Jerk 
70 Site of iniquity? 
DOWN 
1 Birthplace of St. Francis 2 Cool off, as a 
fad 3 Pulls strings 4 Deal with 
moguls s Outdoor eatery e Straight_ makers

arrow  
1  Sleep  
8  It's heard just  
before a click  
e  Bermuda's  
locale: Abbr.  
10  "1914" poet  
11  Pours down  
12 13  Become lighter? U.S. Open champ Ernie  Puzzle by Nancy Salomon 38 Boar's mate  
19 21 25 21 29  Flit (about) Relish, as relish Shares top billing O.K., informally Martinique et Saint Croix  39 40  "Find out how good we really are" sloganeer Independent Presidential candidate of 1980  
30  Wall Street  42  Prediction  

Journal subj. 47 Complete baffler 
32 Greek cross 33 Where Salem 48 Foot part 
is: Abbr. 49 Hit on the green as Spielberg thriller 50 When 36 Rat-_ mammoths lived 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Obsnrver is a vital source of information on pnoplc and <wents in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 1:1,000 rnaders who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
51  Mounts  59  Goes down  
53 54 56  Hosp. area Sides in a turf war Well-ventilated  61 62  Hydroelectric project Fan sound  
58  Style maven Klensch  63  Donkey supporter: Abbr.  

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95tt per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Make checks payable to; and mail to: 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEllRITIES HORN ON THIS 

DAY: Elvis C,,slell<i. Scan Connery, 
ll,lly Rav Cyrus, Tnm Skerritl, Blair 
Underwood, Joarnw Whalley-Kilmer 
llappy Birthday: You rnusl con· 

c~ntrat~, on doing your.own thing and 
fulluwmg your heart ii you want to 
achieve th,• power and strength that 
1·m1 desire. Focus on what you 
bel1e,·e in and you will reach the 
t'xpt•clahons thal you've set for your­
sel ( This is a year not to sit back 
watching what others are trying to 
accomplish. but instead to believe in 
yoursdf and your own capabilities. 
Your numbers: 4, 12. 17, 25, 39, 47 
ARJES (March 21-April 19): Don't 

gel enticed into a secret affair. The 
tC'mpt~tion may be great, but the con­
sequences will be even greater. End 
one relationship before you start 
another. Be hnnest with yourself 
about your m~hves. 0000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 

You'll feel like quittmg your job, but 
it's best nol to make rash decisions. 
Someone you work with has been try­
ing to gel you to leave, and it's time to 
fight back quietly by doing a better 
job.00 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): 
Romance will be plentiful, but do 

not get involved with someone at 
work. Don't lead someone on if you 
aren't completely sure how you feel. 
00000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Plan a quiet l'Verung with the one you love. A candlelight dinner w,ll lead to a passionate encounter. Ynur sensuality will be aw,1Sl'd easily, and your mate will be eager to cater to your whims. 
000 
LEO (July 23-Aug, 22): You're bet· ter off hanging ,,ut with friends. Your home base is stressful, and it's likely that those you live with will be eager to pick a fight with you. Get your 
EUGENIA LAST 

chores do1w ,•arly and tak,, o(I 000 . 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You can help someone you've known lnr a long time Your insight inlo 1he1r problems will be based on your own experiences They'll feel al t'aS<' 1ust knowing they're not alone. 00 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You'vl' been confused emotionally for quite some timt•. Channt'I your energy 111to work and friendships. Your lov,•r will interfen' with your obj,•ctivtt)', nol to mention your professionalism 
00000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You may find yourself jumping the gun. Think twice before taking action, You will get jealous extremely fast Mak,, sure you don't make mistakes you'll regret later 00 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dee, 21): 
Red tape will make life d1ff1cult. Don'I bang your head against the wall trying to make olhers listen lo vour complaints. Concentrate on completing the projects that counl 
0000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
Someone you care about will be ofi on a tangent. Be patient. Give your partner breathing room if necessarr Trips will tum out to be successful if you jusl let things unfold naturall)'. 
000 AQUARIUS (Jan, 20-Feb. 18): 
Travel will bring you greater knowl­edge. Problems concerning your rep­utation may put you under th,, gun. Get things oul in the open and starl over the righl way. Honesty will pa1· 
off. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 201: Let g,, of all your troubles and get away for a peaceful and nurturing time. You will enjoy thl' company of mdi\'lliuals who come from different back­ground, 000 ' 
Birthday Baby: You have what 11 takes to be great. You're strict in your beliefs and c,1ger to prove yourself to the world. Your accomplishments will far exceed vcnir expectations tliroughout your life, bringing you the distincti0n and respect you desire. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice,com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
-
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester Name 
----------------~-----------­Address------------------­
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
I 
I 
Hot-lanta 
I .... 
The Atlanta Braves I increased their lead in the 
I 
r NL Hast with a win over the
' 
Cincinnati Reds lasl night. 

I PORTS page 27 
page 32 OBSERVER 
Catch Up 

Cincinnati quarterback Akili Smith is finally in camp· with a seven-year. $56 million dollar deal. 
page 25 

Wednesday, August 25, 1999 
Saint Mary's officially joins MIAA conferenee 
Athletic /\ssocialio11 may havP includ<' Adrian, Albion, Alma, Prospective students also arc
. Belles' academics, been ov11rshadowed. Calvin, Ilope, Kalamazoo and attracted to the strong acade­
athletics to benefit But the spring decision by Olivet Colleges. mic reputations Saint Mary's llw MIAA President's Council Tim decision provides Sainl and the MIAA offer.
from decision 

to accept the College as a per­Mary's an advantage for With two acad11mic All­
rn anent nwmber brings Saint recruiLing and competition American teams last year, By NOREEN GILLESPIE Mary's into an academic and opportunities within the con­Saint Mary's ranks near the Saim Mary', Ediror athletic spotlight. l'en-rnce, according to acting top academically in the confer­
The election ended Saint athletic director Jini Cook. ence. 
Coming suon after Notre Mary's two-year provisional "Coaches recruiting for their "We <}ompete _in the class­Dame's l:lig Tern decision. Saint membership in tht! oldnst col­sports can offer a stable con­room and wc compete on tlrn Mary's campaign for p(ffma­legiate conf(~rence in the ference, a stable schedule and field," Cook said. "Several nent membership in the United Stulcs. strong competition tu incoming ML'\A colleges had academic \1ichigan IntercollegiatP 01 IH• r M I A A m<' mhe rs freshman athletes," Cook said. AII-Amnrican teams last y1mr, 
FOOTBALL 

In the offseason, junior Grant Irons (#44) made the move from linebacker to defensive end. Irons worked closely with defen­sive end Lamont Bryant and strength and conditioning coach Mickey Marotti in order to make a smooth transition. 
-
Irons adjusting to defensive move 
linol.rnckerJ with the llaiders rur, 1rons · transi lion l'rom yest1~rday's press conforoncn. By BRIAN KESSLER and that's whore I wanled to linebacker to def'onsivc lino "I was so usod to the middlP Spores Editor be. I always saw myself' as a began. position at linebacker where 
linebacker." said Irons. "At first initially [last I'm in the two-point stanco. It took a lung look in Lhc 
whose f'atlier Gt'rald playod spring] when I muved to tlrn Thon when I went down !in mirror f'or Notr<! Dame's six seasons in the pros. position !defensive li1rnl, I thP t.hrn()•point stance] I Grant Irons to reulize where 
"llowevor, as time went on wasn't comfortable at all, but wanted to pop up. I never his future in football would my body matured. When I coach Mattison and the rest really worked lo stay down, lie. looked in the mir-ror every­of' thn coaching slaf'f hav11 but now that I've workod on 
"I looked at my father when thing said del'ensive end." done a great job in teaching the f'undantentals und the With Lhat glance in the mir-l'und,unenluls," Irons said in
he playlld in the NFL las a 

see IRONS/page 29 as we did. Saint Mary's is defi­nitely a positive addition because of that. academic rep­utation." 

The move to tlrn MIAA con­ference also shows rocruits and current students that ath­letics is a priority for Saint Mary's. 
"We are serious about ath­letics," said Mir.lrnlle Samrnla, Saint Mary's MI/\/\ representa­
see MIAA/page 50 
ND hopes 

'99 is season of destiny 
By TIM CASEY Sports Writer 

On paper, 1999 looks likP a year of destiny for the Irish. 
In the past three decades in years ending with the samn double digits -1966, '77, '88 -Notre Dame finished its season with a national title. 
Former head coaches Aru Parseghian, Dan Devine and Lou Holtz won championships in their Eddie third s e a ­
Robinson 

SO 11 S. 
Classic B o b Davie
No. 1 B Notre Dame vs. 

enters 
Kansas 

h i s 
. Where: Notre Dame t h i r d year at
Stadium 

t h e 
. When: 2:30 P.M. he Im w i l h f a n s 
wondering if Im will find sim­
ilar success. 

"It's fun to talk about that," 
Davi1i said at Tuesday's press 
conference. "It's also fun to 
take a look at the records tlw 
year before they won tlrn 
national championship. But 
when it comes clown to run­
ning the fullback trap, that 
stuff goes out th-11 window." 

The mediocre s1rnsons prior to those national champi­onship years are eerily simi­lar to the 1998 record. 
In 19(i5, a yPar after 
lleisman Trophy winner John 
lluarte graduated, the Irish 
recordAd a 7-2-1 season. 

In 1976, Notre Dame ended 
the season 8-3 after posting a 
victory in the Gator Bowl 
against long-time rival. Penn 
Stal!~. 

In 1987, after starting the year with an 8· l record, coach Lou Holtz pulled what was lo be considered a quar­
see IRISH/page:: 29 
------_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-:_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_------~--------------------------------------------­
vs. Kansas at Northwestern Sawn.lay, 2:30 p.m. Sept. 1, 4 p.m. 
SPORTS t.:~ PS; Cross Country 
• 
ar Valparaiso lnviraional --ATA vs. North Carolina Volleyball Sept. 11. IO a.m. 
Sept. 3, 7:30 p.m. vs. Valparaiso Sept. I, 7 p.m. 
~ •
GLANCE 





