

Sooner or later one of us must go 
Picking up steam 
The Irish take on the Oklahoma Sooners 
Former ND visiting professor Bill Bradley's 

Friday
Saturday. Check out the Irish Insider for 
presidential campaign gets another boost after 
predictions, starting lineups and the lowdown 
Thursday's Jundraising report. 
OCTOBER 1,
on both teams. 
News . page 10 
1999
Irish Insider 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIII NO. 28 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Dust to Dust: Remembering Holy Cross Hall 

Former residents, rectors reflect on life by St. Marys Lake 
By FINN PRESSLY 
Assistant News Editor 
A father brought his family to the shore of St. Mary's Lake one fall morning, intent on showing them the building where he spent his four years at Notre Da'me. Thinking he had lost his way, he sheepish­ly asked a passing student for directions to his former residence hall. 
He left that day without pictures of his old dorm, his old room, and his old hang­outs, but rather with a picture of a barren field and a marble monument that marked the 1990 demolition of his former home, Holy Cross Hall. 

Birth of a hall 
In 1885, the Brothers of the Holy Cross constructed the St. Aloysius Scholasticate, a high school seminary, on the raised area between the lakes. Four years later, it was rechristened with name the it would retain for over 100 years: Holy Cross Hall. Among the residents of the seminary was University president emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh. 
In 1967, Notre Dame leased the "build­ing across the lake" from the Brothers of the Holy Cross to serve as a men's resi­dence hall. 
"The new students that moved into Holy Cross in 1967 were very free-thinking.

This monument, erected beside Saint Mary's Lake, stands as a memorial to one of Notre Dame's oldest residence halls. 

Communist China celebrates 50th birthday, looks to future 
. Domers from China, Taiwan adapt to U.S. values 
By ERIN LaRUFFA News Wrirer 
Whnn China's Communist gov­r•rnmcnt turns 50 today, there will be lirnworks rnminisccni of annual Fourth of July celebra­tions in tho U.S. 
But tlrn nxplosions above Beijing 
will bn more See Also than your ND experts avnragn 
discuss China's
annual ritual. savs Notrn past, tutu re.D,tme gradu­
Viewpoint
ate student 

page 16-17
(;ang Xu. who was born and raised in China. This evont will cnlebrat,i the svstem which sets the wQrld's ·most populous nation apart from its rival super­
pownr. 
"l'olilirnlly, it is important," Xu said. 
Xu. who received his undor­gratluate education in Beijing, said that Chincsn primary edu­cation is similar to lhe American system. /\s American students learn about democracy, Chinese students learn about commu­nism in school. 
The introduction of the princi­ples of communism at an early age teaches respect for the gov­ernmental practice. said Xu. The Communist Party is powerful and far reaching, according to Xu. who said that in order to become important in the Chinese government, a person must be a member of the communist party. 
"People beyond 18 have the right to vote," said Xu. "But we don't like voling." This dislike stems from the lack of informa­tion about can<lklates in certain elections. In major e!Pctions, such as for the Prime Minister, the pnople generally know more about the candidatf'. 
The communist rule in China has affected many surrounding countries. 
The year that China became communist, Taiwan scparatcrl from China. Tony Gau, a Taiwanese Notre IJame gradu­ate student, fears that China will someday invade his counlry, as China has thrnatorn~d to do. 
..The situation [bntwccn China and Taiwan] is very complicated. China and Taiwan are two dif­ferent countries," Gau said. 
see DOMERS/page 8 

. Military parades through capital 
Associated Press 
BEIJING 

With huge lantern balloons swaying overhead, children in red, blue and green jackets turned vast Tiananmen 
They were into protesting the Vietnam War and into the peace movement, so they liked the setting and the fact that they had their own environment," said Pete LaFleur, who was the last president of tho hall. 
Holy Cross developed a reputation for being a close-knit community on the fringe of Notre Dame's residence life -a reputa­tion enhanced by its secluded location between the lakes. 
"When you consider how close the other residence halls are to each other and to the dining halls ... we had the sense that we were lost and forgotten in the woods out there," said Bill Kirk, assistant vice president for Residence Life. Kirk was a former resident of the hall and served as rector of Holy Cross during its last year of operation. 
"The dorm was as close to a fraternity that this place has ever had," said LaFleur. 
Long before Breen-Phillips became informally known as the Pigs, Holy Cross proudly bore the name "Hogs." Though the source of the name isn't certain, many speculate it derives from the amount of mud that Holy Cross students would track into the dining hall from their walk along the lake. 
The fields that gave Holy Cross its trade­mark seclusion also provided a venue for many of the dorm's most popular events. 
see HALL/page 6 

Square into a sea of color Friday as China began cele­brations feting 50 years of communist rule. 
Imposing columns of tanks, armored personnel carriers and trucks bearing surface­to-air missiles moved through Beijing before dawn, followed in the day's first light by gar­ish t1oats for each of China's 
provinces -white plastic horses fur Inner Mongolia and a rnplica of Hong Kong's skyscraping skyline for China's newest territory. 
Army veterans bedecked with medals from their ser­vice in the communist revolu­tion sat in red felt-covered 
see PAR.ADE/page 8 


page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Friday, October 1, 1999 
INSIDE COLUMN 



The Panchen Lama 
It was near the end May 1995, and I had just returned from two months in Siberia. Trying to catch up on world events, I set to scanning accu­mulated copies of The Seattle Times for world­changing events that I may have missed. I nearly passed over a very small article buried deep in the news section that had 
A. J. Boyd
accompanied a picture of a 6-vear-old child. 
lfaving just witnessed the Assistant relics of the "Communist Viewpoint Threat" in Russia. the story Editor of a family being taken politi­cal prisoner by the People's Republic of China (PRC) at first seemed hardly newsworthy (a sobering thought in itseli1. 
Yet, bv the time I finished the article, I was irate that it had not been placed on the front page. The boy was Gedhun Choekyi Nyima, bet­ter known as the 11th Panchen Lama. He, his family and the monks who found and identified him were abducted by the PRC just two days after the Dalai Lama recognized him as the legiti­mate emanation of the Amitabha Buddha. 
The Panchen Lama is second only to the Dalai Lama both a..s political leader of Tibet and spiritu­al leader ofTantric Buddhism. The Panchcn Lama is responsible for protecting, liberating and enlightening the Tibetan people; one of the pri­mary responsibilities of the Panchen Lama is to identify the reincarnated successor of the Dalai Lama after the current one dies. 
To put the significance of this kidnapping in terms of American Catholic ideology, imagine if a hostile occupying government kidnapped the vice president and abducted the whole College of Cardinals -and nobody seemed to notice. The Panchen. Lama is one of only four religious lead­ers in the world who bears the title "His Holiness" (along with the Pope, the Dalai Lama and the Catholicos of the Armenian Church). 
Since his disappearance the PRC has changed its story on his whereabouts many times, usually claiming that they had him in protective custody. Since no one outside the government has even had contact with the Panchen Lama, it is unknown if he or his family is still alive. 
All attempts by the Dalai Lama and the international community to see the now ten­year-old have failed. On a trip to Tibet in September 1998, Mary Robinson, High Commissioner of Human Rights of the United Nations, was denied access to Gedhun Choekyi Nyima. 
In December of the same year that the true lama was abducted, the PRC forced Buddhist authorities in Tibet to choose a false Panchen Lama. The Communist government of mainland China has no more right to oversee the selection of the lama than any other civil authority has the right to select the pope. Centuries of Buddhist tradition reserve this right to the Dalai Lama, who lives in exile from his occupied see of Lhassa. Tibet. 
With the Oalai Lama not allowed to speak to his own countrymen, the presence of the Panchen Lama is essential to the survival of Tibet and the faith of its inhabitants. The breaking of legitimate succession could undermine the selec­tion of the next Dalai Lama, which could destroy the leadership of the Buddhist community. The 11th Panchen Lama must have the right to visit Tibetans in exile around the world, particularly his holiness, the Dalai Lama. Such actions will increase the possibility that all Tibetans will have the opportunity to communicate and be blessed by this highly important spiritual leader. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Tim Logan Mike Vanegas Kate Sreer Graphics 
Erin LaRuffa Joe Mueller Sports Production Mike Connolly Noah Amsradtet Rachel Biber 
Lab Tech Viewpoint Angela Campos Dustin Ferrell 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is P"bli,hed Monday chrough Friday except during exam anJ v,tc:ation periods. The Ob:ierver is,\ mernbcr of lh<: Associated Press. All reproduction righcs ar~ reserved. 

THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
Volunteers set WHC record 
Monday, Sept. 24, 1979 
A record number of Notre Dame students volun­teered to fast one day per week for the World Hunger Coalition. The effort may raise $10.000, up from $2,102 the previous semester. Michael Stegman, coordinator for the Coalition attributed the increase to the change from dinner to fasting at lunch. 
OUTSIDE THE DOME 
University of Illinois helps preserve history 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. 

The generation of Holocaust sur­vivors is slowly dying off, but their stories can live on thanks to Survivors of the ShoahVisual History Foundation in Los Angeles. 
Sam Gustman, the executive direc­tor of the foundation, spoke at Gregory Hall on Monday night to explain that universities and muse­ums will soon be able to access Holocaust survivors' testimonies through digital technology. The lec­ture was sponsored by the University's Center for Advanced Studies program. 
The foundation was originally established by filmmaker Steven Spielberg to collect testimonies of Holocaust survivors and use them for educational and research pur­poses. 
"I think .this is amazing for the 
Penn passes parental notification 
PHILADELPHIA 

College students have traditionally gone off to school thinking their days of notes home to parents or calls from the principal's office are over. But the recent law passed by Congress giving universities the ability to make their own policies regarding parental notification for alcohol violations has schools across the country doing just that, and they are deciding to exercise this new power in a variety of ways. Penn's proposed policy of notifying parents when students are involved in "repeated or serious" alcohol-related incidents that require disciplinary action falls in the middle of the spectrum of the growing list of policies, which range from no notification at all to automatically notifying par­ents of the slightest violation. The amendment to the Family Education Rights and Privacy Act in October 1998 clarified an earlier law by stating explicitly that universities may notify parents. Formerly, the law had been interpreted by many schools as prohibiting them from notifying parents about alcohol-related incidents. One of the strictest of all the new notification policies was instituted in 1997 at the University of Delaware. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
S Day South Bend Forecast 

Accu Weather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

@~~cli2c£'.2~ i) ~ ~ 
S~~~; T~t~;~ Ra,n ;~•;;,~~ -~~~-;:• ~~-:_ Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via Associaled Press GraphicsNef 
foundation's plans through one of Gustman 's presentations. Gusiman has been working with the super­computing association since 1994 to set up one of ihe largest visual archives available. 
In the five years of the project. Spielberg's crew has collected more than 50,000 testimonies of Holocaust survivors and rescuers. Those who gave testimonies filled out an initial 40-page detailed survey. Trained interviewers then went to ihe partic­ipants' homes to record live testimo­ny about their experiences. Victims were also given the opportunity to display any photographs or artifacts from the Holocaust. 
The transformation from VHS to digital copy is extensive. The VHS copies are broken down from each testimony, and eac_h one goes on to a digital library system. 

education system," said Carrie Rennemann, sophomore in business. "I think people are going to be astonished at what happened because so many people don't real­ize how bad it was." 
The project erupted when Larry Smarr, the director of the National Center for Super Computer Applications, was notified of the 

New computer improves system 
Monday.Sept. 27, 1982 
The capabilities of the Notre Dame computer system was enhanced by the installation of new Hewlett-Packard computers. "We were looking to increase our productivi­ty," said Richard Spencer, assistant provost for comput­ing. The change was made because they anticipate a gen­eral increase in computer use in the future. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Package causes Cornell evacuation 
ITHACA,.N.Y. 

Part of the second floor of Ives Hall was evacuated shortly before noon Wednesday for over two hours fol­lowing the arrival of a suspicious package. Cornell police alerted the Endicott Bomb Squad after the package arrived at a second-floor office in Ives. They quickly determined that the package did not contain explosive material, said Linda Grace-Kobas, director of the Cornell News Service. The area near the second floor Ives office which had received the package was reopened by 3 pm. "Cornell police always err on the side of caution," Grace-Kobas said. Police cleared the area as .a preemptive measure and called in the squad from Endicott. Although this is the first time this semester such a scare has occurred, "it's not unusual that we call in the people from Endicott," Grace-Kobas said. She said several suspicious packages had neces­sitated appearances by Endicott explosives experts last spring. "Luckily nothing dangerous happened, and we're very glad of that," she added. The evacuation only affected administrative offices in Ives Hall, caus­ing no classes to be canceled or relocated. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Friday, Oct. 1. 
50s 
FRONTS: 
.................. 
~ 

lO 1999 AocuWeather, lne. COLD WARM STATfONARY 
Pfvuure: ,,.., 
.,

I ~ c:Il ~ ~ ',,f {~
® © . .
I High Low Showers Rain Taslnrms Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Clnudy 
Vie Associ~fed Press 



-----------·------------------------_..~--------------~ 
Friday, October I , 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Panelists discuss challenges, illlplications of East Timor 

By KATE NAGENGAST News Writer 
Panelists discussing the rncent violence in East Timor came to differing conclusions about lhe cullural and political implications of the conflict and of Li.N. intervention at a semi­nar Thursday. 
Onn lhing they agreed on, howevPr. was that something m1eded to be clone difforentlv. 
"It remains to bo Sf;nn wlrnther the intornational com­
-munity is willing lo commit 1he resources and time to imple­nrnnl a new govBrnnHmt and rnstore humanitarian valu<is Lo East Ti1i1or." said Holrnrl Johansen. dinwtor or Urn Kroc Institute !"or International Peac1c) Studies and the modera­tor of 11w disrussion 
With tho disintegration of Portuguese rulu ovor East Timor in the mid-scventics, I11do11csia look control of' the country without the consent of lhc popti­lalion, y<>l 




Castle'Poiot 
Apartments 
Clewland c1nJ Ironwood Roads/18011 Cleveland Road/ South Brod, Indiana 46637/ (219F72-8/ 10 
New Castle Point Select Units A.vailable for Next Semester 
*Within minutes of campus* 
• 
Renovated, spacious one and two bedroom apartments, some vvith lofts 

• 
Includes 1nembership in the new 


Castle Point Racquet Club and Fitness Center 
power. general peace keeping, the This led to problems, one conse4ue11ces of [intervention] panelist said. may also be rather serious," 
"The biggest mistah is that Moody said. the Indonesian government .Johansen discussed interna­didn't help restor!l the self­tional intervontion from the 
respect of East Timor u f l e r annexation 
rather tlwy resort­ed lo con­frori tatio ns of power,'' said Slamet Pruwadi. a n Indonesian who is a pcuce stud­ins gradu­
''The biggest mistake is that 
the JndonesiCtn 
government didn't help restore the self-respect of East Timar after annexation. " 
Slamet Pruwadi Indonesian peace studies graduate student 
perspective of Linitod Nations involve­
nrnnt. "Ir a U.N.. 
peacekeep­ing force had _been availabln miwh earli• or and had IJ IHlll SI! ll l in suf'ficinnt numbers, il's very 
ate studnnt at Notre Danrn. liknly that it could havn prt'­
Pruwadi also r<\cognizcd Ow venll:d a lot of Hw destruction nePd for action in the form of a Lhat oc1'.t1rrPd," hn said. call to the Indonesian govnrn­"I think this is another nrnnt to f"ix the mistakns ol' tlw oxampln of whnrn holding indi­last 25 years by rt'moving mili­viduals accountabln. and mak­tary power from their political ing it cl1!1tr in aclvancu that style and instead to practice individuals might Im hnld 
"politics of acclluntable to inti,rnational that prohibit crimes
C O Jl -norms
"71,e situation in East nmor is
tlwy ml1t science." against humanity might have vnry little an extremely strnng case for actually had some lrnlpl'ul 
i11terna­international intervention, bul Johansen impacLs." t i o n a I and Peter The pa1rnl agreed that the 
... the consequences of/inter­
opposition. Moody. act­U.N. mandate requiring an end 
The past vention! may also be rather ing director to violence, a safoguard for the germration serious. of Notre return of aid workers and of East Dame's more than 200,000 refugees Timoresn Center of and a transfer or power f"rom 
Peter Moody 
has bncn A s i a n tlrn Indonesian authorities to a ruled by acting director, Center Studies. government or East Timnr was lndoncsian for Asian Studies discussed a step in the right dirnclion. 
MIKE HARRIS/The Observer 
Robert Johansen, director of the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, discusses the problems facing conflict resolution in East Timor. 
dictators and mili­tary force. Such rulc raisns isstws of humanitarian abuse, refugePs and displaced per­sons. Also brought into ques­tion is the instability of Indonesia's g0Vt1rnmcnt as a result of a lack of separation of military, democratic or dvilian 
the  neces­ 
sity  and  
implications  of outside inter­ 
vrmtion.  

"The situation in East Timor is an extremely strong case for international intervention ­but however justified on humanitarian grounds, moral grounds, or on the grounds of 
II owcver. t lwv we re sti 11 unconvinced aliout the long­term affocts of tlrn mandate. 
The panel discussion was titled "Prospects for P11ace in East Timor" and was held at tlrn llesburgh CentfH" for International Studies. 
!t was sponsored by the Kroc Institute. 
Like to write? Write for us. 

Call 1-5323. 

purveyors offine wine &food 
/22 S. Michigan Street South Bend. IN Next to the College Football Hall of Fame (219) 234-WINE 

LUNCH -DINNER -CARRY OUT 
Fresh Salads and Pasta  
-­ Gourmet Pizzas  
-­ Indoor and Outdoor Seating  
-­ Variety of Fine Cigars  

Mon-Wed I 1:00am -9:00pm (late summer hours) Thur 11:OOam -I I :OOpm Fri-Sat I1:OOam -1:OOam Open Sundays 11:00am -4:00pm (011 game weekends) Now taking reservations for all home game Saturdays 

-
page 4 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October J , 1999 




Friday, October I, 1999 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
ACLU against drug testing welfare recipients 
DETHOIT 
Tim Anu•ricau Civil Liberties Union filed a lawsuit Thursday to stop Michigan f"rom n•q uiring cl rug t<1sts for welfare recipients. ThP state·s hunily lndepnndnncn Agency said it wot1ld lwgin testing on Friday unless the­rourl orcl!m•d it not to. "We call it the Family lndqwnd('llCn Agnncy for a reason," Gov. Jolin l~ngl1w·s· spokPsrnan John Truscott said Thursday. "If' somponp's ttbusing drugs, tlwir clmnc,, of improving tlwir lot in life is really diminislwd, not to mention tlrn problems it ITPatPs for tlrnir rhildrnn." Thn i\Cl.lJ arguPs that anoss-tlw-board drug testing of' appli­ra11ls is discrimination and trnats tlrn stat11's poon•st f'amili1•s as f'riminals. 
Cuba restricts doctors from leaving country 
HAVANA 
l!f'strklions havl' h(~nn placncl on dcwtors wanting lo l1•avl' Cuha in a mov11 ainwd at prr•vPnting tlll' loss or skillPd physicians, the 1'.0111111u11ist govl'rnllll'lll 1:onlirnwd Thursday. "Spp1·ialists should not abandon tlrn country," said Forr•ign Ministry spokesman Alejandro (;0111:alt•z. ":\nd a rPn•nt gradual<' should give his sPrvin• for a limn. This is a very costly and long training period." Doctors hem say that lwgin11i11g around July, all physicians who wanl to IPaVP Lim country were told they must l'irst work at least thrnc years in the c.011ntrysidn. Specialists must pttt in at least fiw ymtrs. 
Vatican restoration relies on corporate sponsors 
VATICAN CITY 
/\n:hitm:tural restorations are leaving their mark on tlw Vatican -and so arc corporate sponsors senking tlrn public's support and good publicity. On Thursday, Pope John Paul IL in a lloodlil. nationally televised evening rnremony in St. PetN's Square, lavished praise on a $5 million, 2 "J/2-year scrubbing of St. l'nwr·s Basilica's facade paid for by Italy's stall! erwrgy company, ENI. Earlier in th,~ clay, liNl's chief executive, Vittorio Mincato, unveilnd a plaque, placed on the roor or Urn basilica behind the clock, to com­11rnmoralf\ tlrn sponsorship. Corporate spon­sors have been incrnasingly eager to help dean and nistore artwork, church buildings and monumPnts in Italy blackened over the years by grime and soot. The Vatican has emhraced corporate sponsorship in a big way, starting with a Japanese television net­work's funding of the restoration of Midwlangt•lo's frescond ceiling in the Sistine ChapPI, a projoc.t which spamwd thn entire 1980s. 

1282.71 
+14.34
10,336.95 
VOLUME LEADERS 
$fllANGE l'Hlrt· 
AMAZON. COM l NC A.MZN •l. 00 -,8100 30,9( O&LL CO.MPU'l'&JI: DELL -l.77 -.7525 28.59 NlCltOOP'T CORP MSP''l' +l,.18 +l.010 2J,72 IWl'SL COai' ::unc -1.11 -,8775 13.05 ClSCO IYTDIS csco +2, 6-:1 +-1.'?U 19,U SAFEWAY INC SWY -9,:9:iil -t.ltO 18.01 l'lltD 1'1:ATH Ii Bl:Y 89BY +7.51 .. 2 .•,0 17.15 MCI woaLDCOII WCO:N -1.0l --74.50 u.u M4~UCA ONL!NI AOL -f.5i -5.000 16.20 OUCLI: COJIP ORCL +S.05 +-2.188 115.64 
orld 

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
Associated Press 
PRINCEVILLE, N.C. 
Residents of this town founded bv ex-slaves glumly sur-veyed their wrecked homes Thursday for the first time in the two weeks since Hurricane Floyd's flood­waters swallowed the town. Some found the damage too great to bear. 
Robert and Callie Suggs said good-bye to the con­crete, green-and-white home they built 34 years ago and where they raised their six children. An inch-wide crack gir­dled the foundation. 
"All my life this was a gathering place for the 
Congress leaves work unfinished 
family," Mrs. Suggs said. "I would cook something every Sunday, and we would come here after church and pray together and eat together. I'm really going to miss that. I guess someday ·it'll be the same, but I don't know where." 
After 8 inches of rain this week made the mis­ery worse in flood­stunned eastern North Carolina, Thursday was dry and weather forecast­ers predicted more of the same for several days. 
"Slowly but surely it's drying out," said National Guard Master Sgt. Larry Jones in Goldsboro, where this week's rain ruptured a dam and flooded the downtown. 
The Tar and Neuse rivers remained well above flood stage and were due to crest over the next two days. 
"It's still going to be a dangerous place out there for the next couple of weeks," warned Jonathan Blaes, a National Weather Service forecaster in Raleigh. 
Floyd, which brought 20 inches of rain to eastern North Carolina, is expect­ed to surpass Hurricane Fran, which did $6 billion in damage in 1996, as the state's costliest natural disaster. Blamed for at least 47 deaths, Floyd's floodwaters destroyed or 
embargo on trade with Cuba. 
Much of the action in the Capitol centered on legisla­tion financing labor, health and education programs, the biggest spending mea­sure of the vear. 
The Senate spent a sec­ond, desultory day debat­ing its $324 billion mea­sure. Though Democrats successfully won extra spending for social ser­vices and child care, the bill still faced a veto threat because of cuts in Clinton's proposals for hiring teach­ers and other efforts. 
The most controversial action was in the House 
heavily damaged at least 
3,000 homes. About 1,500 
people remain in 18 
American Red Cross she!­.ters. 
Government relief funds began flowing toward North Carolina on Thursday. Vice President Al Gore announced $20.3 million in federal emer­gency funds would help families in low-income areas rebuild. 
James Lee Witt, director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, and EPA administrator Carol 
M. Browner toured flood­ed Kinston and surveyed environmental damage near the Neuse Hiver community. 
Appropriations Committee, which used a near party­line 33-26 vote to approve its $316 billion version of the bill. 
But first, Hepublicans used a party-linP 32-27 tally to approve a plan ajmed at letting them redeem their pfodge of passing spending bills without dipping into Social Security. 
The GOP proposal would spread out over 12 months what has historically been a lump sum payment to most low-income working poor under a program known as the earned income tax credit. 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Beset by internal dis­
putes and veto threats, 
Congress left most of its 
spending work unfinished 
Thursday as the govern­
mont closed the books on 
the 1999 fiscal year. 
President Clinton 
denounced a plan to savo 
money by slowing income­
support payments to mil­
1ions of working poor · families. 
"Let me be clear: I will 
not sign a bill that turns 
its back on these hard­
working families," Clinton said at the White House. 
Minutes earlier, he signed legislation keeping agPncies open through Oct. 21, giving the two sides more time to battle over issues ranging from schools to foreign aid. Just four of the 13 annual spending bills were signed into law before the fiscal year began Friday. One has been vetoed and five others face veto threats. 
One legislative deadlock was broken when House and Senate conforees final­ly agreed on a $8. 7 billion farm· relief package after dropping a provision that would have eased the 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, October 1, 1999 
Hall 
continued from page 1 
One such event. Hog Bowl, raised money for the homeless by host­ing a tournament for each dorm's section football championship team. 
Another famous event, HogStock. took place during AnTostal 1990. The day-long music festival. reminiscent of Woodstock. was somewhat of a "last hw-rah" for dorm residents. 
"We just wanted to have a lot of cool events that last semester just to celebrate the last semester," said Lafleur. 
In 1991, a similar event, HogStock II, was held on the for­mer location of the dorm. 
St. Mary's Lake also played an important role in many Holy Cross traditions. 
"There was 

this idea of 
"/Holy Cross] is the spirit, 
tor and rector. 
having to 
cross the lake not the building." K i r k remembers
in the middle of winter. We Pete LaFleur being woken 
by early-rising used to have 
former Holy Cross Hall president s t u d e n t s
contests to see who would cross the ice last before the thaw," said Kirk, recalling memories as a freshman in Holy Cross. 
Even the walk it'ielf contributed to the spirit of the hall. 
"You had a lot of unique senso­ry experiences walking out there," said Lafleur. 
One hundred years of annexes and renovations gave the building an <'ccentric architecture, as well as some surprising room designs. Holy Cross had a six man, an eight man, and the largest of all campus dorm rooms: the Nine. 
The building also had two third floors, called Third New and Third Old. To get from Third New to Third Olrl. one had to descend to the second floor and then ascend on the other side. 
"It was always classic because you'd have people [in Third New) looking for parties in the Nine, which was in Third Old," said LaFleur. 
The rich century-old history also brought with it a host of structural problems. The owners of the building, the Brothers of the llolv Cross, were faced with the decision to either renovate Holy Cross IIall or tear it down. 
Final Year 
"All four years that I was there, them was always the rumor that it was going to happen," said Lafleur. 
In 1986 the University announced that Holy Cross would be closed in May 1988. Overcrowding in campus housing, however, gave the residents a two-year stay of execution, post­
Leader/Manager. 
Full-time college students or graduates. $31 K starting salary. Sunner i1tems available. 
U.5.M.C. Officer Pn.,glams. 
Contact Lt. Simek at 
765-743~8~. 
poning the date to May 1990. 
"It just sort of happened," said Lafleur. "In that respect, those of us that were seniors felt really fortunate that we were able to be there four years." 
Holy Cross did not accept first year students during the '89-'90 school year. Instead, approxi­mately 50 transfer students filled the empty spaces, giving them a chance to live on campus when they might otherwise have had to spend the year off campus. 
"It was neat for the transfer students, because back then when you transferred in, it was hard to get housing," said Lafleur. 
"The reason it was finally torn down was the that hall wasn't worth being repaired. There were problems with the windows, problems with the boiler and the heating system," said Father Pat Sullivan, who spent 10 years in the dorm as assistant rec­
demanding 
that he turn 
on the hot water, which was controlled by an old mechanism in an out­house. 
"I had to learn how to fire up this big boiler in this other build­ing," Kirk said. "It was just a real­ly old building." 
Yearly renovations have pre­vented any buildings from falling into the same disrepair that Holy Cross did. 
"I don't think we'll ever let a hall get into that shape again," Kirk said. 
Moving On 
Unlike Grace and Flanner Halls, which closed in 1996 and 1997, Holy Cross had no clear successor hall. 
"The guys from Holy Cross ended up getting scattered around," Kirk said. 
Students staying on campus first went through a "dorm pick" before attending room picks in their future residence halls. For the most part, students wern able to move to dorms in small blocks, such that a small group of f'riends would be able to live in the same hall. Grace 1-lalJ took in the largest 11mount ofHoly Cross refugees. 
"I think one whole floor or sec­tion in Grace was !from Holy Cross]," Kirk said. 
Looking Back 
LaF!eur was unaware of any notifications in the alumni maga­zines that Holy Cross had been torn down. Many returning alum­ni found out the hard way. 
"A lot of people came back the 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback hooks in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service: $2.00 

• 
Appraisals brge and small 


Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 
FOUR FLAGS FARM 
23EJ a.nd 23uakfa~t 
THE KERNERS Rrn Bi..;o TRAIL NORTH PHONE BUCHANAN. Ml 49!07 616-471-5711 
next football seasons bringing their families up the path, and that's how they found out it was gone," Lafleur said. 
Perhaps the most compelling reminder of Holy Cross is the asphalt path -the "Walk" ­that leads from the shore of the lake to the crest of the hill, right up to where the front door once stood. 
"Generations of' Notre Dame students and seminarians lived there," Kirk said. "There was a lot of history in that hall that Wl'nt away. It disappeared." 
The structure was demolished during the summer of 1990. 
"I remember going over there when it was being demolished. That was pretty emotional. I remember walking among the rubble, standing in spots thinking, 'This is where so-and-so hap­pened' or 'This is where food sales was,"' Kirk said "It was neat to walk among the rubble.... 1 remember grabbing a brick from the rubble pile." 
"Some people may not be able to relate, but we had a strong attachment to the place that we lived," said LaFleur, adding that he spent the night before gradua­tion chiseling bricks from the side of Holy Cross. "It's weird to look over and not see it there." 
Today, two stone markers ­the 1889 cornerstone and a his­torical head stone -near the shore of the lake celebrate the memory of IJoly Cross Hall. 
Engraved on the back of the larger stone arc two small hogs, prming that beyond the destruc­tion of their dorm, the spirit of Holy Cross Hall lives on. 
"It was totally like a family atmosphere. Those things are always going tu be memories you have. You can't take away the friendships and the good times we had," Lafleur said. "[Holy Cross] is the spirit, not the build­ing." 
Irish Country Bed & Breakfast Registry 
"7{)~ ep,u, 'tt a~ ~ a, fd.a,ce u 4-UU/·" 
16901 Jackson Road South Bend Call: (219) 255-1516 Fax: (219) 257-4193 
Web: www.irishcountry.com 

.! 0 0 0 
Pulliam Journalism Fellowships 
Graduating college seniors are invited to apply for the 27th annual Pulliam Journalism Fellowships. We will grant IO-week summer internships to 20 journalism or liberal arts majors in the August 1999-June 2000 graduating classes. 
Previous internship or part-time experience at a newspaper is desired, or other demonstration of writing and reporting ability. Those who go through the Fellowships often find new professional opportunities opening up at other newspapers during and after the program. Wmners will receive a $5,500 stipend and will work at either The Indianapolis Star or The Arizona Republic. Opportunities for online training are available, along with reporting experience at our major metropolitan daily newspapers. 
Early-admissions application postmark deadline is Nov. 15, 1999. By 
· Dec. 15, I 999, up to five early-admissions winners will be notified. All other entries must be postmarked by March 1, 2000, and will be consid­ered with remaining early-admissions applicants. Successful applicants will be notified on or before April 1, 2000, and will be asked to respond immediately with a letter of intent, at which time one-third of the cash grant will be mailed to the Fellow. 
To request an application packet, visit our Web site, e-mail us or write: 

Russell B. Pulliam Pulliam Fellowships Director Indianapolis Newspapers 
Wl'h ,itc: \\ W'-'.,1arn. i ,.,·nm/r,jf P.O. Box 145 E-mail: pulham(a, .11"11<.:\\ , ..:0·111 
Indianapolis, IN 46206-0145 
Friday, October 1, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Levitsky: Argentinian labor party finds rare success 


By TOM ENRIGHT 
News Writer 
At a time when many labor­based parties declined. the Jusiicialista Party of Argentina stood out as an example of suc­cess during much of the past decade, Steven Levitsky, a visit­ing fellow in the Kellogg Institute, said Thursday. 
Levitsky's lecture focused on how the .Justicialista Party, pop­ularly referred to as tho PJ, adapted during a time when other labor parties around the world lost their mass-based support. 
"The PJ is a classic case .of party adaptation," said Levitsky. 
Faced with deindustrialization and economic crises, the PJ pursued support from Argentina's middle classes through deunionization or dis­tanring itself from working class unions. Such unions tradi­tionally influenced P J party poli­cy. Ry the 1990s, this process proceeded foster in Argentina than in other countries. 
Levitsky discussed the party's success and inf'luence under 

Spectrum Sports Sale 
"Officially Licensed" 

Notre Dame Products 
At 
Logan Center 
-Super Special­**All ND T-Shirts $9.95 (Reg. $24.95) With Purchase** 
Other Football Weekend Specials Was Special 
Select ND Sweatshirts ............................................................................................$49.95 $24.95 Champion ND Lightweight Jacket ...............................................................$59.95 $24.95 Selected ND Hats...................................................................................................... $24.95 $ 9.95 ND Rain Ponchos ........... ·....................................................................................... $19.95 $14.95 
(Other Rain Gear Available) -Check Out the Great Selection of Notre Dame Products at the Logan Center-
Friday Oct. 1st, 1:30 p.m.-6:30 p.m. Saturday Oct. 2nd, 8:00 a.m. until I :30 p.m. 
''Logan Center located south of the stadium at the comer of Eddy and Juniper *Free gifts to first 50 purchases-compliments of Spectrum Sports (309-786-9318) 
current Argentine president Carlos Menem. During his presi­dency, Menem introdured a number of widely unpopular changes ranging from trade lib­eralization to the privatization of slate enterprises. 
Despite the unpopularity of many of his changes, he gained reelection in 1995. Levitsky pro­posed that perhaps this sur,ress occurred because many party leaders hoped to draw from his popularity among votPrs. 
Levitsky also discussed the advantages and disadvantages of the P.l's flexible internal struc­ture and the role of routinization within the party. 
"By routinization I mean a proress by which the rules and procedures within an organiza­tion become widely known, accepted and practiced," he said. 
The PJ, said Levitsky, has gained a large mass-based sup­port, drawing more than 4 mil­lion members. Because the party has seen a rapid turnover in party leaders, those wanting to rise in rank have tended to fol­low top leaders. Such weak wn­straint of top officials may have helped President Mcnem to carry out his economic r,hanges. 
During its 54-year history, the party has never held national elertions for party officials. said Levitsky, and members have often gained posts from outside the formal bureaucratic struc­ture. Levitsky noted that local party base units, which often provide various forms of materi­al aid, remain distanced from the central party. This has allowed some local leaders to abandon higher level party ideas without consulting upper party officials. 
Levitsky noted, however. that while the PJ has found its loose party structure working to its advantage, such a situation can ultimately produce inefficiency and internal chaos. 
The lecture, "From Laborism to Liberalism: Institutionalization and Labor­Based Party Adaptation in Argentina (1983-1997)" was sponsored by the Kellogg Institute. 
Levitsky is visiting from the Department of Political Science at the University of California, Berkeley. 
Student raises money for youth education 
By ERICA THESING Associate News Editor 
In Guarjila, El Salvador, a farming community nestled in a country devasted by a 12­year civil war, a college educa­tion is merely a dream. 
The $1,000 bill is too steep for many of the students there, but junior Larry Burchett is hoping to change that. Burchett, who spent the sum­mer in 
Guarjila through the interna­tional summer service project program, worked with the local youth group and met many of the high school students. During a forum, he asked them what they would do with $10,000. 
"Every one of them said the first thing they would do is get an education," Burchett said. "These guys want to go to school and they need money." 
Burchett thought about the students when he returned to the United States and decided to ask the Notre Dame commu­nity for help. President of Sorin Hall, Burchett brought his request to Hall Presidents Council Tuesday. 
He wanted to raise a $1,000 scholarship to send one of the boys to college. Ile didn't know how the hall presidents would react to his requ·est for help. He asked for a show of hands. 
"Slowly, maybe half or a little less than half of the presidents raised their hands. I was shocked. I didn't think but a couple would want to take a collection for us," Burchett said. "That was inspirational." 
The presidents agreed to take collections in their resi­dence halls at this weekend's masses. The collection will cor­respond with this week's visit of .John Giulano, an American who has worked in El Salvador for 15 years. 
Giulano leads the youth group that Burchett worked with over the summer. He will be speaking on the effects of 
U.S. militarism in Latin American Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns and again at 9:30 p.m. in the Sorin Hall chapel. 
Got news? Call 1-5323. 
ND Hockey  
vs. Wilfl.i.d I.atU.i.er  
'l'o,.~ght @7pm  
*As always, students free! Free admission also ~ with Football Ticket Stub ~  Free Admission to first 375 students!  
~ Alumni Field ~  First 1,000 recieve a free schedule magnet!  

Friday, October 1, 1999
page 8 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
NEWS ANALYSIS 
Moody: China thrives due to market reforms 
By TIM LOGAN News Editor 
Fifty years after rising to power, the Chinese government is enjoying the support of its pop­ulace, largely because of free­market reforms which have led it to a prominent place in the global economy, according to Peter Moody, acting director of Notre Dame's Center for Asian Studfo$. 
In the five decades since Mao Tse-Tung took power, China wit­nessed The Great Leap Forward, the Cultural Revolution and the crackdown on student protesters in Tiananmen Square. It has also opened its economy to the free market and emerged from the tumultuous end of the Cold War as the world's only major com­munist power. 
China's prominence in the world community has become a source of pride for its citizens, according to Moody. 
"In the last 10 years there's been an enormous increase in pride in the country," he said, noting that patriotism and nationalism are running high. "People will stand up for the gov­ernment when it's standing up to other powers." 
This stands in stark contrast to the conditions in the wake of the 1989 Tiananmen -Square mas­sacre. After more than 1,000 unarmed protesters were killed, serious questions were raised about Communist rule in China. 
"After Tiananmen, you had a 
total collapse of the legitimacy of 
China's government," said 
Moodv. "There was a time in the 
early-'90s when the only thing 
holding it together was force." 
Wiith the incident fading from 
memory and economic condi­
tions improving for many 
Chinese people, attitudes have 
changed and the Communists 
am firmly in control, for now. 
"Rapid growlh has taken peo­
p!P.'s minds off of political dissat­
isfaction," \-toody said. "If hard times come again, there can be threats of political uprising." 
China's free-market style of socialism helped it ride out the last wave of anti-communist sen­timent, which brought about the fall of the Soviet Union and the Warsaw Pact, experts say. 
While China's economv rose during the 1990s along with the rest of Asia, some of the coun­try's success can be traced to free-market reforms of the last 20 years, said Moody. 
"Initially what helped the most was dismantling the collective agriculture system," he said. "This enabled them to become more market-oriented, alkming the development of private enterprise." 
While Russians and Eastern Europeans living under Soviet rule demanded higher quality of life and turned against Communism in the mid-1980s, the Chinese were more willing to stay with their system. 
"China had a more vibrant economy to work from," Moody said. 
Still, Communist China must solve a number of internal prob­lems if it is to last another 50 years, Moody said. 
Foremost among these is the gro\.\1ng gap between quality of life in urban and rural areas. 
"They have to worry some about political stability," she said. "They're developing signifi­cant social problems." 
Other problems Moody dis­
cussed include growing crime 
anrl government corruption. 
Perhaps the least tangible 
problem facing the Chinese is a 
certain "spiritual emptiness," 
which Moody said derives from a 
loss in faith in Communist ideals 
combined with official state poli­
cy against organized religion. 
"Aside from Chinese patrio­
tism, there doesn't seem to be 
anything guiding people's lives 
beyond eating and drinking and 
hoping the good times will keep 
going on," Moody said. 
LINCOLNWAY LAUNDRY & TANNING 2822 LINCOLNWAY E., MISHAWAKA 256-2070 
SAVE ... SAVE. .. SAVE. .. SAVE ... SAVE... SAVE 
CHOOSE YOUR FAVORITE TANNING DEAL! 
• 
$20 FOR 20 VISITS FOR 30 DAYS 

• 
$2 TANNING EVER DAY 

• 
WOLFE SYSTEM BULBS 


MANY MORE PACKAGES TO CHOOSE FROM, CALL STORE FOR DETAILS 
WE HONOR OUR COMPETITOR'S ADVERTISED PRICES 
FREE WASH CARD! 
•10% 
STUDENT DISCOUNT 

•10% 
SENIOR DISCOUNT 


FULL DROP-OFF SERVICE FREE PICK-UP FOR ORDERS OF 75# OR MORE 
DoIDers 
continued from page 1 
Gau also said that China does try to innuence Taiwan's international relations, especial­ly in matters involving the United Nations and World Trade Organization. Overall, though, Taiwan has remained a democracy despite China's efforts. 
"Election is very common in Taiwan," Gau said, "We elect our own representatives in Congress. We also elect our president. That's what we are proud of. That means we're truly a democratic country." 
One of the inescapable prob­lems that Taiwan faces is the 
Parade 
continued from page 1 
viewing stands as patriotic marches resonated through the square's loudspeakers. Ordinary citizens were kept away by a martial-law style security cordon that left Beijing's streets eerily empty. 
The Communist Party's celebration Priday, costing the equivalent of $36 mil­lion, will showcase the nation's growing military might and its rapid econom­ic progress since Mao Tse­tung stood atop the Gate of Heavenly Peace on Oct. 1, 1949, and declared the founding of the People's Republic. 
close proximity of China and its world power as a communist country, Gau said. 
"I am not against China. I want to protect Taiwan. Taiwan needs me a lot," said Gau, who plans to return to Taiwan some­time after he finishes his educa­tion. 
Unlike China, Taiwan has a free market. The Taiwanese government realized in the 1980s that .improvement cannot occur until the people are able to parti~ipate in a free market. The Chinese government is not as liberal, but Xu said it is get­ting better. 
The control which the Chinese government exercises over peo­ple's everyday lives is "very strong but not as strong as in [former Party Chairman] Mao [Tse-Tung)'s period," Xu said. For example, it is now possible for Chinese people to speak ovt against the government. Overall, Xu said he believes ordinary people in China are less concerned with the govern­ment than with their everyday lives. 
Other countries have criti­cized China's human rights poli­cies. Xu said he feels it is "more important to improve the com­m unity before talking about human rights." 
UNIVERSAL 
TAE KWON DO 
UNION CLUB 

IT'S NEVER TOO LATE TO START. 
Next Class: Sun, Oct. 3rd 
Rockne Gym (Rm. 301) -5-6:30pm Questions? Call Denise (634-2781) or Nicole (247-1665) 
FR Ati K 
LLOYD 
\./RIGl=IT 
® 
AtiD COLLE.AGUE.J ltfDIAtfA \JORtV 

E.Xl=IIE>IT 
tf0\.J OPE.ti thru OCTOP->E.R 24 
John G. f>lank Center for The Arts 312 E.ast 8thJtreet Michigan City, Indiana 
FOR THE FIRST TIME EVER the Indiana works of famed architect Frank Lloyd Wright and his colleagues are showcased at an important exhibit. 

FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL: 
877-FLW-1999 
Produced in cooperation with the Tourism Development Division. Indiana Department of Commerce. 

• 
I•. 
Friday; October I, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
BIOSPHERE 2: SEMESTER "ABROAD" Fall 2000 & Spring 2001 
Informational Meeting: 
Thursday, October 7th 
4:45 pm, 126 DeBartolo 
Learn about the newest ND Semester ''abroad" program: Earth Studies semester at Biosphere 2 in Oracle, Arizona (offered in partnership with Columbia University). Unlike any other program offered to ND students!! 

Got News? Ca/11-5323 
-
I ~ 
-~~". 
SGA to propose more study _days 
By NICOLE HADDAD News Writer 
Saint Mary's students may receive study days before weeks of exams if a student government proposal is accepted. 
Headed by Angie L i t t l e , Student Academic Council chair­woman (SAC) and vice presi­dent of the Student Government Association, and Nancy Midden, student body president, a research process is well underway. 
"SAC and Ristau plan on pre­senting the research and ten­tative proposal to the faculty by Thanksgiving of this year," Little said. "Due to the co­exchange program between Notre Dame and St. Mary's, we must go along with [Notre Dame's] calendar." 
This project is in collabora­tion with Karen Ristau, vice 
, >{ 

preseident and dean of faculty, and will culminate in a propos­al of this tentative schedule. 
Saint Mary's belongs to an Association for Independent Colleges, Little said. Ristau is contacting other colleges that belong to this association to see how they are instituting their study days. 
The College has three extra days in its calendar, allowing these two study days to be added, said registrar Lorraine Kitchner. These study days will not interfere with the stu­dent or faculty vacation days. 
Although Saint Mary's is in the same community as Notre Dame, "it is not fair to com­pare a university to a college," Little said. 
"While there has b!rnn a his­tory of tentative proposals. there has never been a com­prehensive proposal such as this," Little said. "We am the first to propose one day [per semester]. instead of two." 
At the end of last semester, 1,100 Saint Mary's students signed a petition requesting two free study days before the week of finals: one in the fall semester and one in the spring. 
•:Please Recvclel 
Yo~ue, i.lwirul to aiteltd,the, 
1999 No-tr~ D~ 
uniced way Kidv-Off" wed,,,,e;dAy, Ocrober 6 
lrulv uwtyard at the, MoYYU [ft/1,; 
7:00 4'.ff(,,. 12:15p,.t,1,(/. 4:30f'-HCA. 
Parking will be available in either the Bookstore lot or the Visitor's lot south of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
Be sure to watch for results on campus-wide participation totals 
T~ Notr~ Da,uie, 
and weekly drawing winners on the official Notre Dame 
t!J!J!J Un1ml way ~n, 
United Way web site at 
www.nd.edu/--uway. 
-A~for 100% ~P~/1/ 
page IO The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Friday, October l, 1999 
Army reviews Kort~an War deaths 
Bradley raises Blore 
. Secretary
money than Gore 
Caldera pledges to 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Bill Bradley, his Democratic presidential campaign surg­ing, raised more money than V i c e President Al Gore over the last thren months, and has m o r e money in the bank heading in to the final quartPr of the year. 
Bradley raised an estimated $6.7 million between July and September, spokeswoman Anita Dunn said today. Gore raised around $6.5 million during the same period, according tu senior advisers who spoke Wednesday on condition of anonymity. By spending less than $4.2 million -during the last three months, as be can raise. In 1996, Republican presidential nomi­nee Bob Dole hit the spending cap months before the nation­al conventions and could not answer millions of dollars in advertising by the (-:linton­Gore campaign. 

Gore advisers said the cam­paign has bt"'en spending heavily on fund raising, including direct mail, and has hired dozens of staffers in Iowa, New Hampshire, New York and California. ''Looking down the road, unless he makes changes, he could be in the position Do.le was in 1996, essentially being unable to spend money with months left before the con­ventions, facing an opponent with plenty of money left to spPnd," said Anthony Corrado, a professor of gov­ernment at Colby College in Waterville, Maino. "They have to get leaner in their spend­ing." 
The Gore advisers acknowl­edged that the campaign was 
cutting spending and reduc­ing the 
million and $10 million. Gore spent about $6 million between July and September, almost as much as he raised. Gore, seeking to rejuvenate his campaign, announced Wednesday that he was mov­ing his headquarters from Washington to Nashville, Tenn., and legal and account­ing costs. 
His early spending has raised concerns that, if he secures the Democratic nomi­nation, he will press up against the limits and be unable to respond to Bush, who is not accepting federal funds and can spend as much 
ing later 
this year, it will be able to move employees to the Democratic National Committee payroll. 
The move to Nashville also is expected to result in a trim­ming of campaign staff. It also was designed to shake up a campaign that found the road to the White House not as smooth as it once appeared, especially in the wake of Bradley's strength in both fund raising and polling. 
"You run the risk of looking desperate but these folks are desperate," former Dole cam­paign chairman Scott Reed said." 
1999-2000 Season 
Notre Dame Film.Television, and Theatre Presents 
Hedda Gabler 
by 
flenrik Ibsen 
investigate reports of Korea massacre 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Army Secretary Louis Caldera today promised a "complete and thorough review" of accounts of mass killings of South Korean civil­ians by l.I.S. soldiers early in the Korean· war. 
Cald1wa said The Associated Press account "clearlv has raised now informatio1i. that demanded that it be looked into." 
President Clinton said the Pentagon "wants to get to the bottom of it." 
Clinton said he was briefed on the AP report today. Asked about it at a White House question-and-answer session, he responded by endorsing the inquiry ordered by Defense Secretary William Cohen. 
"He wants to look into this," Clinton said. "He wants to get to the bottom of it. He wants to Pxamine all the available information and evidence." 
Caldera said a previous review by the Pentagon "found nothing in the official records" ly deeply troubling. I intend to discuss this with Defense Department officials to attempt to determine the truth." 
but  more  examination  is  
required.  
"These  reports  are,  of  

At a news c:onference in Jakarta today. Cohen said that "to the degree that any sub­stantiveinformation is forth­coming, we certainly would 
course, very disturbing," 
"To the degree that any
he told a nPws confer­substantiveinformation is ence. Cohen forthcoming, we certainly
said he was 
would look at it. " 
not aware of any new information 
Louis Caldera 
to support 
Anny secretary
the claims by S O ll t h Koreans of killings in 1950 at a vil­lage 100 miles from Seoul. or support that." 
look at it." 
He added, however, "This has been exam­ined on sev­eral occa­sions in the past aud 1 am not aware that there is any information that would corroborate 
Accounts of South Korean villagers and of a dozen ex-Gls who either witnessed or were involved in the killings wue reported by the AP on Wednesday. 
Sandy Berger, Clinton's national security adviser, called the AP report "obvious-
Caldera said the review would take at least a year and it was too early to speculate on compensation to the Koreans. He said officials would interview the soldiers who were in the units identi­fied by tbc AP. 
Bradley number of
"Looking down the road, 
wound up aides and 
with more unless he makes changes, amount of 
If our delicious, flame-broiled than $10 mil­he could be in the equipment lion in the at events.
position Dole was in 
double cheeseburger were any bigger,
bank as of In addi­today. Gore 1996.,, tion, as aides said the cam­
we'd need to buy more ad space.
the vice pres­p a i g n
Anthony Corrado
ident would w i n d s
Colby College
h a v e down its 
government professor
between $9.5 fund rais­


Noth111g t-icats our b1g,juicy Douhk Checsehurgn. It's got the great Llstc of flame broiling ;md h;1~ 75Q'i, me ir~· beef than Mc I)on:tld':: Chcc~churger 
(Pnce and par1ic,µat1on Ilk{ vary) 
T~'"2 Huddle • Lafor1une S!ud~·,1 Center 
Directed by Siiri Scott 
Wednesday, October 6  7:30 p.m.  
Thursday, October 7  7:30 p.m.  
Friday. October 8  7:30 p.m.  
Saturday, October 9  7:30 p.m.  
Sunday October IO  2: 30 p.m.  

Ploying at Washington Holl Reserved seats $9 Seniors $8 All Students $6 

It just tastes better. 

Tic!c,4u are available at LaFort,me Student Center Ticket Office. Master<:ard ar,~ Vi.a orde:n call 631-8128 
Friday, October 1, 1999 The Observer . NEWS page 11 
Baxter: Jubilee gives 
Court lets suspended student sue 
f Join the NEW TRADITION 
j, . 
a 2.3.3-1000 

IF Ylr:I.J..:u.;,,1&1, S LAST YEAR ... DO NOT THIS YEAR .... WE ARE QUI Y BECOMING THE "NEW TRADITION " FOR ITALIAN DINING IN SOUTH BEND. 
GREATFOOD GREAT PRICES GREAT ATMOSPHERE GREAT FUN Fresh prepared Dinners, Pizza, Beverages 
Dial Phone Appetite 674-0900 Category 8466, for more info 
Ask about our" Student Frequent Diner" card 
235 S. Michigan St. South 8end, In 46601 www.catalinos.com dine in/carry-out reservations recommended 
DOWNTOWN SO\JTH BEND'S FINEST ITALIAN DINING 
PROBLEM 

SOLVERS WANTED. 
McK1mey & Company is a glohal management consulting firm', "-'-" which specializes in helping senior managers of leading compJ6'° solve complex problems surrounding issues of strategy, operati1'· and organization. · 
We seek candidates who are highly motivated with strong reccmJS::(:., ol academic achievement and leadership to be l.lusine,s Analy;ts ou?t our consulting teams Business Analysts are member.; of teams thaf''T identify issues, form hypotheses, design and conduct analysis,/ synthesize conclusions into recommendations, and present result(., to management. 
II you arc interested in challenging work, an environmtnt in whicWi you will develop professionally, and a substantial amount of respons,bility, please attend our presenta.lion 
Case Interview Workshop Thursday, October 7th 7:00-9:00p.m. Room 210 Center for Continuing Education 
Refrrsh,nt11ts will bt provided 
McKinsey&:Company 
Please vis'it us at: www.mckinsey.com 
Management Consultants 
eoe 
chance for renewal 
the idea of a year of Jubilee
By KATIE MILLER 
that they established one every
News Writer 
fifty years. Anothflf century passed, and it was decided to 
The year of Jubilee marks a have a year of .Jubilee every
time of spiritual renewal, 
twenty-five years. 
repentance and forgiveness in And so the Church has cele­
the Catholic Church, said 
brated a year of .Jubilee almost 
Father Michael Baxter in a every twenty-five years since 
lecture Thursday. 
then. In the years when the 
Baxter emphasized the 
Jubilee has not been celebrat­
importance of words as we 
ed. it was because of war or 
prepare for the year of 
great unrest according to 
Jubilee. 
Baxter. For example, in 1800 
"When you speak certain 
the rule of Napoleon prevented
words, certain things happen," the Jubilee. 
he said. "With our words, we Baxter reemphasized that the 
build up, year of 
and we tear Jubilee is a
down." 
"We are called to be a time of 
According 
renewal for
witness, to speak the 
to Baxter, 
the church. 
words have words ofpeace. The 
"In 1950,the ability to Jubilee year is a new recovering 
create reali­from WWII
advent." 
ty;, and staring
Jes us 
Communism s p e a k s Father Michael Baxter in the face,words; those 
Pius XII called 
words do 
for a .Jubilee 
things," he said. "He says, 'be year," said Baxter. 
healed' and we are healed. 
When Baxter was in Rome in 
Jesus himself utters forth and 1975, the last year of Jubilee, 
creates a reality. Words 
he witnessed the city filled with 
become real in the utterance pilgrims.
of them. Jesus was crucified "In this next year of Jubilee,
because of His words." 
Rome will again be filled with 
The new millennium will start pilgrims. The holy door that 
with a year of Jubilee; this 
we will walk through symbol­
marks a very important time in izes our leaving sin behind,"
the Catholic Church. 
he said. 
"Scholars have told us what 
Along with the theme of 
was made up of the Jubilee renewal, Baxter emphasized 
year -a remission of debts, the importance of repentance 
return of land to people who 
during this time of transition 
had lost their land because of in the Church. 
financial misfortune and a time "The theme of repentance is 
to let the land go fallow. The very crucial in the Jubilee year 
Pope says that the Jubilee year as it is explained by Pope John 
is the foundation of Catholic Paul II. He says, "As the sec­
teaching," Baxter said. 
ond millennium of Christianity 
The year of Jubilee has its draws to a close, the Church roots in the Book of Leviticus should become more fully con­
where the Jubilee year is said scious of the sinfulness of her 
to be a year-long Sabbath every children. "It's an act of renew­
fifty years. However, a year of 
al." Jubilee was not celebrated until 
"We are called to be a wit­
the year 1300 when Boniface 
ness, to speak the words of 
VIII attempted to put order to a peace. The Jubilee year is a chaotic Europe. 
new advent," Baxter reminds 
"He proclaimed a year of for­us. 
giveness of sins," Baxter said. 
Baxter, a professor of theol­
"The world was suffering at 
ogy at Notre Dame, was the 
that time. There was a desire to fourth guest to speak in the 
return to a holy way of life." 
".Jubilee Time: Catholic Social 
By the following century, the Concerns" lecture series. 
popes were so enthralled with 
The Observer 
It's where you get your news 
Five days a week 
. Decision could affect discipline at colleges nationwide 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 
In a easn that could affect disriplinary dm:isions at private collegos nationwide, Massachusntts' appeals court rult~d Thursday that a former Brand<lis University student accused or rape should be allowed to sue the school for suspPnding him. 
David Arlen Schaer was a 20-year-old junior when a femalo student accused him of raping lrnr in February 1996 in her dorm room. She com­plained to school oflicials about a month 1,Ller. and Schaer was brOL1ght Lrnfore a disciplinary board of six students and two faculty mnmbers. 
11<~ claimed th<)y engaged in consensual sex: she claimed sho was rapud. Schaer was newr charged criminally. 
The disriplinary panel found Im committed the violations charg,~d. and suspended him from campus between May and August of that year. The sus­pnnsion prohibited him from working on a biomedical rnsParch project at a Brandeis lab that summer. their lives," he said. 
When a campus appeal Schaer graduated from failed, Schaer sued the school Brandeis in 1997 and is now and administrators for com­purnuing graduate work in pensatory damages. A judge biology. dismissed the case. Brandeis officials declined to 
The appel-comment on late court. the case,
"Private colleges have 
however, ruled b u t Thursday that generally gone on the spokesman the case should Dennis
assumption that they can 
not have be<m Nealon said
do whatever they want."
tossed aside. the univer­The court sity does not questioned the take disci­
Harvey Silvergate
validity ol' the p Ii nary
attorney and author 
campus disci­
plinary hear­ing, saying some of the testimony would never have been allowed in a court of law. 
As an example, the court cited the testimony of a campus police officer who said when she saw the female student one month aft1H the encounter: "She looked like a rape victim." 
It's not apparent "on what possible basis a police officer could know such a thing," the court wrote. 
David Lipton. Schacr's attor­ney, said colleges need to take a closer look at the way they discipline students. 
"They should understand the gravity, the really serious impact this kind of process has on people, and how it can ruin 
cases light­
ly. "Officials 
here go lo great lengths to let students know from the very first day what is and what is not acceptable behavior," he said. 
The appeals court decision will affect private colleges everywhere, said Harvey Silverglate, a defense attorney and co-author of "The Shadow University: The Betrayal of Liberty on America's Campuses." 
"Private colleges have gen­erally gone on the assumption that they can do whatever they want," Silverglate said. "Courts look at these on a case-by-case basis and usually private colleges get away with all kinds of outrageous con­duct." 
Friday, October 1, 1999
page 12 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
PR9JECT Give away your coat...and SHARE THE WARMTH. WARMTH 
Facts and Figures on Poverty and America's Working Poor 
·In 1997, 13.3% of the U.S. population, or 35.6 million people, lived in poverty. 
In 1997, 14.6 million people-41% of all poor persons-had incomes of less than half the poverty level. 
40% of persons living in poverty are children-the 1997 poverty rate of 19.9% for children is almost twice as high as the poverty rate for any other age group. 
Two trends appear in the rise in homelessness in the past 15-20 years: a growing shortage of affordable rental housing and a simultaneous increase in poverty. 
Two prime factors account for the increase in poverty: eroding employment opportunities for large seg.. ments of the workforce and declining value and availability of public assjstance. 
Things are heating up again! 
The Center for Social Concerns is gearing up for another successful run of Project \Narmth. Last year, approxi­
mately 1500 coats were received and distributed to sites all across the country, including the Appalachia region, 
Indian reservations in the Dakotas, and outreach facilities around the South Bend area. 
EVERYONE can participate! Starting October 25, immediately after fall break, collection sites spread all over campus will be eager to accept your coat donations. These sites include: 
Center for Social Concerns * Hammes Bookstore * LaFortune Information Desk * RecSports * Alumni Commu­
nity Service Office * Campus Ministry/Hesburgh Library * All Residence Halls * College of Business Administra­
tion r St. Michael's Laundry Distribution Center 
Other sites will soon be announced! 
Keep your eye out for more exciting information about Project Warmth. 
Keep in mind especially National Hunger and Homelessness Aware­
ness Week, November 14-20. Social awareness and education are as 
integral parts of the project as the willingness to serve. Together, let us 
make a difference! 
Hall Competition 
As Project Warmth heats up again, so do the prizes for the two dorms 
,•,itn the highest percentage ofparticipation. The first place dorm will 
receive $1000 and the second place dorm will win $500. Start energiz­
ing hall spirit for this great cause! 
Sponsored by: 
UNJ\'ERSITT' OF NOl"RE DAME 
St. Michael's 
Hammes Bookstore 
Student Activities 
SlUDE.Nf GoVERNMENT Laundry 

Friday, October I, 1999 The Observer . JAPAN NEWS page 13 
U.S., Russia send help to Japan 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 
The United States and Russia are ready to s1!nd a joint tllam of nucl~ar cxpo:ls to .Japan to deal with a ma:ior rnlease of radiation from a uranium processing plant, Ennrgy Sncrntary Bill Hiclmrdson said today. 
l'rnsidcnt Clinton, mean­whilf', nxprnssed deep concern aboul Lhe accidcut, and scicn­tis ts al the Lawrence Liv11rmorn National Lauoratury in California were monitoring the radioactive plunw as il drilled from the .!,tparnisn plant silo. 
Hil'hardson said in a tld('­phonn i11tHrvim,v !'mm Hussia, wlrnrn Im was visiting nuclear facilitins, that a team of U.S. and Hussian nuclear nx1.mrts was n•ady to go hut that the .Japanese government had not yet made a request for such assistance. 
"This is a serious nuclear accident," said Richardson. "Thll good nnws is that it's not a widely contaminated area. It's a limited area." 
Hkhardson said monitors at the Livermore lab wore keep­ing close watch on the move­m r, n t of the radioactive plume. 
Japanese officials confirmed that radioactive material had drifted into the atmosphere as a result of the accident. at the uranium fabrication facility. Susan Houghton, a spokes­woman at 1.ivermorn, said sci­entists were examining the !'irsi atmospheric data from the plume but that she had nothing further to report. 
Hir.hardson was at Sarov, one of 10 Hussian nuclear cities, where he said a similar 
accident involving uranium fuel fabrication occurred some years ago. 
Nuclear scientists said that it appeared ihai at the Japanese plant them may have been too high a concentration of liqui­tied uranium used in the pro­cessing of reactor fuel, causing "criticality." That could have resulted in the "blue flash" reported by workers, they suid. 
Richardson said there arc five uranium fuel fabrication pIan ts similar to the one in Japan in the United States, all privately owned. He said the Energy Department maintains special emr.rgency rnsponse teams in case of a radiation roloasc at any of the facilities. 
Responding to the incident, Clinton said the United States "will do whatever we possibly­can that will be helpful to them." 

JAPAN 
Plant contains nuclear reaction 
Associated Press 
TOKAJMURA 
An uncontrolled nuclear reaction was r,ontained at a uraniumprocessing plant in Japan Friday, authorities said, a day after leaking radioactive gas seriously injured three workers and possibly contaminated 34 others. 
Masaru Hashimoto, gover­nor of lbaraki Prefecture, said he had received confir­mation that the reaction had been brought under control at 6:15 a.m. 
The company that runs the plant acknowledged fau.lt. Tim accident was the result of a "clear violation" of in­house safety rules, Makoto Morita, a spoknsman for tlrn company JC:O, told The /\ssociatcd Press Friday. 
The radiation levels out­side the plant had returned to normal Friday morning and experts said that they did not believe there was a serious threat to local resi­dents. 
Still, officials described the accident as the most serious ever at a nuclear l'acility in 
-.lapai1. An order for morn than 310,000 residents within a six-mile radius to stay inside remained in effect, cloaking this normally busy town and the neighboring city of Mito in an eerie silence. The facility, which refines uranium so it can be used to fuel nuclear reactors, is located in Toknimura, a town of 33,000 people, 70 miles northeast of Tokyo. Morita, the JCO spokesman, said workers 
had been mixing uranium with nitric acid to rnake nuclear fuel. but had used too much uranium and set off the accidental uncon­trolled reaction. 
lie said one of the workers is believed to have put 35 pounds of uranium into the tank -well over the 4.8­pound limit. 
"We have no words to 
· express our apologies," he said. "We cannot escape our responsibility," Police wero investigating whether negligence was involved, according to Japanese news reports. Government officials said the accident spewed a gas containing alpha, beta and gamma radiation into the atmosphere, forcing the evacuation ol' 150 noighbors of the plant. The plant was not designed to block the oscape of radiation, company offi­cials said. In Washington, President Clinton exprosscd deep con­cern, offered assistance. "This is going to bn a Vflry hard day f'or tlw peoplP or Japan," lw said. Two of' tlrn thrPP injured workers WE!ro in critical con­dition l'rom t.lrn radiation, estimated at about 4,000 times tlrn level considered safe for a person to reeeive in a year, said hospital ol'li­cial Yukio Kamakura. A team removed water from the cooling equipment around thn tank earl~· Friday in hopes that it would sup­press further nuclear fission, Science and Tochnology Agency official Eiichiro Watanabe said. Nuclear fission happens when nnutrons hit uranium, 
cinema@thesnite 

Fri. & Sat. 7:30 p.m. and 9:45 p.m. 
presented by ND Film, Television, and Theater www.nd.edu/~cothweb 
coming soon: the Granddaddy qf Cinenia: Citizen Kane Mon. 7pm 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Daine, IN 46556 024 South Dirnng Hall, Norrc Dame, IN 46556 · 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michelle Krupa 
MANAGING EDITOR  8USINF.SS MANACER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogcro  
A'iST. MANAGING EDITOR  
L.111ra l'erelk  

NEWS ErnToR: Tim Logan VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen G,1ughcn SPORTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler 
SCENE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: :-loreen Gillespie Pl-!OTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalum 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Bryan Lurz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Bret Huclar SYSTE~S ADMINISTRATOR: Mid1ael Revers WEn ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushro 
CONTROLLER: Timothy Lane GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 
C0NlACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO.............631-7471 FAX................. ,., ......................................... 631-6927 Ao\'ERTISING ................................631-6900/8840 
obscrver@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHJEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE.......................................631-53 l 3 NEWs..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. J@nd.edu VIEWPOINT ................................................631-5303 
observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS.......................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. I@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S .............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PttoTO ....................................................... 631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit 011r Web site at http://obsen1er.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news. sports, features and opinion columns., as well as. cartoons, reviews and breaking new.s from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 
page 14 BSERVER Friday, October 1, 1999 
• •• ,...• • 


Get used to lacklus,ter football 
•
•
• 
......... 
•..• : 


••• ...
• 
0 
d' 
•
•
• • . •
• 
•
• 
Over the past two weeks, we have seen many complaints in this paper about the lackluster performance of this year's football team. 
Get used to it. The administration 
and the athletic  
department are no  
longer committed  Jeff Langan  
to producing an  
excellent football  
team. This can be  Lula's Journal  
best understood by  
examining its com­ 
mitment to overall  
athletic excellence.  

The administration is committed to turning Notre Dame into a top research university. They are also committed to having an athletic and industrious student body who will go on to be athletic and industrious bod­ies in some company, organization or law firm after their glory years at Notre Dame. Having a great football team is not necessarily part of this pic­ture. Having many varsity sports that all do fairly well is. 
Some may say that the football pro­gram brings in money. Yes. it brings in some money, but the money does not depend on the success of the team. Look at other great research universi­ties -Stanford, Harvard and Princeton (schools often mentioned in debates about what kind of universi­ties Notre Dame should imitate). They all have football programs, and the success of their programs has little effect on the ability of their develop­ment offices to bring in the money. Research, not football, brings in the big money. 
Furthermore, the success of a foot­ball program does not affect fund-rais­ing like we commonly think. Losing, rather than winning, brings in more money. People who study fund-raising at universities have offered some very compelling examples. Championship seasons do not bring more money from alumni to Notre Dame. 
This also happens at other schools. For example, in the 1960s and the 1970s, when UCLA was winning bas­ketball championship after basketball championship, gifts to the university actually went down. Columbia, known for its losing football program, gets less money from its alumni when the football team has a winning season. 
TV ratings and merchandise sales also do not go significantly down when Notre Dame has a mediocre season. However, a representative of Frito Lay says that about half as many Frito Lays are eaten in South Bend after a loss than after a victory. Perhaps the bars also feel the pinch. 
Thus, some might say that a losing football program has health benefits. The more we lose, the less Frito Lays we eat. We all know that Frito Lays have all those nasty fattening carbs in them. The less fattening carbs we cat, the less fat we get on our bodies. Perhaps the board of trustees, the administration and the athletic depart­ment are really expressing concern for our health when they make half-heart­ed efforts to maintain a good football program. 
So what are the administration and the athletic department up to? They are de-emphasizing -not doing away with -football as a varsity sport. Notre Dame, over the course of the next decade or two, will slowly decrease the money and effort it puts into guaranteeing a championship level football program. At the same time, it will bolster the competitive level in non-marquee sports. So per­haps we should all start getting inter­ested in attending diving, volleyball and soccer matches. 
Over the past few years, the University has put a lot of money and effort to have big-time programs in more than just football. Observe the recent success of the women's soccer team and the women's basketball team. 
I'm sure it's doing all it can to increase the competitive edge in other sports as well. · 
This is exactly what happens at schools like Stanford. The school has a football program, and it also has many other highly successful varsity athletic programs. The football program at Stanford is overaH mediocre. They, 'Jlllhll have many losing or .500 seasons. Once in a while, with the right coach and the right players. they produce a 9-2 or 10-1 season. 
They might even get an occasional trip to the Rose Bowl. This keeps the name recognition of the program up, the hopes of alumni up, the hope of the students up and the money in the development office up. Stanford, how­ever, does not have a great football program. 
In the end. the debate about the football program versus other sports really misses the point, or it points to a deeper problem. This debate, as in most debates, comes down to money and success. The question is one of money and success -and that is the problem. Most debates in this campus, and in the culture at large, come down to what brings in the most money or what makes you the most su,ccessful in the eyes of the culture at large, as if bringing in the most money or having the best sports program are the high­est moral or ethical goods we can achieve. They seem to have become ends in themselves. 
le.ff Langan is a graduate student in the department ofgovernment. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The ObsertJefi. 
weather for up-to-the minure forecasts 
advertise for policies and rates of prim ads 
archives co search for artides published after Augusr 1999 movies/music for weekly student reviews 
online features for spe­cial cam pus coverage 
about The Observer 
to meet rhe editors and sraff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the Universirv ofNone Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. Acting as pub­lisher ofThe Observer. the administration of the University of Notre Dame du Lac prohibits the adver­tisement of alcohol and The Observer's acceptance of advertisements from specified types ofgroups. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of rhe Editor in Chiet; Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions thrm1gh letters is encouraged, 
Quwwns regarding Obserllt!rpolicies ;houla be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMirhellr Krup,1. 
DILBERT 

E 
0 
0
.. 0 
® 
E
..
,,
.. 
a 
" 
" E 
0 0 
t 
Ill 
.c 
;; 
~ ~ ~ 
YOU ~U5T A5KED ME TO FOLLOW A PROCE5$ THAT HAS FAILED THIRTY TIME5 IN A ROW 
.; 
C 
i 
.;" 
C 
:,,, 
"' 
; ~ :; 
:. 
.., 
~ 
i:: 
::, 
"' 
"' ;?! 
p 
.,.. 
..!: 
~ 
AT WHAT POINT CAN THI5 NO LONGER BE CALLED 
''OPTil"\ISM"? 
SCOTT ADAMS 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Communism is the opiate of the intellectuals." 
Clare Booth Luce 
U.S. journalist, playwright and po!itician 
VIEWPOINT 
OTHE Friday, October I, 1999 BSERVER page 15 

A Response to Mr. Keady 
Last Mondny, ,lamm; Keady spoke at tho symposium on_ sw1iatsllops. l invitml Mr. Keady because l thought that his analysis or th<,,t;ilualion wo11ld hn both timely and provoca­liw. 1lc did no( disappoint. ti(, told of' his experience as a graduatc assistant. socctir coach al St. John's University and Llw crisis of' consciPncc' that {pd 
him to rnsign that position in light or 
St. .John's association with Nike. Last 
Tu<~sday's Obsnrrnr provid<'d cxccllnnt 
covnrng,1 of' Mr. K1:ady's talk. 
Givnn that Mr. Kracly articulat.cd his argunwnt in l(wms ol' Catholic t11ach­ing, it might hn lrnlpt'ul to look at two ways in whid1 his approach app<,ars to div£irgc frum l!ml Waching. It is impor­tant to point out that sud1 diwrgcnce dons not makn \fr. Keady non-Catholic; ii dons, I think. slww that his indebtnd­rwss is g"r<'lll<'r to otlwr strands of the Catl1olic tradition. 
Tlrn lirsl arna ol' divr,rgm1cn is in Mr. KPady's f'ailurn It, follow .John Paul ll's clisti11ction bot.ween capitalism and the market eronomy. John Paul argues that the market econo­my puts persons lrnforn things and the common good bdore narrow self' interest. Capitalism is a form of market f1conomy that. bt1cause it operates without real limits, n!verses llwse priorities. "Precisnly this reversal of order slwulcJ rightly lw callml 'capitalism."' This distinction allows Catholic teaching to afiirm Pntrr-1prnneurial initiative and prolit without condoning an unlimited marke_t. In John Paul's words, tlrn "church acknowledges the leg1t1mate role of' profit." 
Mr. Knady did not makn this distinction in his talk, and this crnat1id tlrn impression that the market itself is intrin­sically evil and that profit by its very nature is wrong. In an earlil1r conversation, I told Mr. Keady that whether Notre Darrni's task force judges its licensees to be out of step with Catholic tPaching will depend on empirical investigation of thnir practices. lie rnplied that in his view it is "the sys­tmn" itself that is the problem. 
This position would bP more in kneping with certain strands of liberation theology. For instance, Leonardo and Clodovis BofT critique the American bishops: "The system as such was not called into question. Once again capitalism has escaped being cursed." The Boffs are dear that they rnject the capitalism/market economy disti~cti~n; ~r. Knady l'udgns it. Such fudging provides an 1romc pomt of contact lwtwren Mr. Keady and neo-conservative thinkers. Mr. Keady needs lo be clear about whether he accepts the distinctio;, or, like the Boffs, rejects it. 
The second distinction that Mr. Keady did not articulate was that bntween the principles of Catholic teaching and llwir application to concrete circumstances. Ile therefore cr1~awd llrn impn'ssion that if one did not agree with his spm:ilic applications, then one was necessarily out of step wilh tlw tmtching. What gave this impression particlllar f'orcn was his showing of a clip from the film "Romero," wlwrn a military chaplain lines up with a political leader who ordcrs people to be tortured. 
K(mdy said that Lim political leader represents the appar­ol cornpanics and the military chaplain represents the schools that do business with them. Without a clear dis­tinction between the principles of Catholic teaching and their application, Mr. Keady seemed to suggest that anyone who did not agree with his specific recommendations wa~ akin to a torturer. Nowhere did he acknowledge the possi­bility that someone with good will could come to different specific judgements than he does. This is not to say that all judgments am equal and tbat no judgments are ruled out, only that tlrn application of principles is not univocat. 
Mr. Keady will need to address the above points if he wants to claim Catholic teaching. At present, his seemingly complete rejection of the market appears to have more in common with liberation theology and American Catholic radicalism. This can be for the good. Catholic teaching has learned from these strands of the tradition Jn its appropri­ation or the language of "the option for the poor" and accnptancc of pacifism for laypeople. The main thing that I gained from Mr. Keady was his concern for coaches and athletes. In light of what I learned, I will suggest to the task f'orce that we require a "conscicnc<\ clause" in our con­tracts: Anv coach or athlete who after discernment cannot in good conscience wear the licensee's apparel is permitted to wear allcrnative apparel. St. John's claims that ii did not force Mr. Keady to wear Nike or to resign: Mr. Keady dis­
agrees. Eitlrnr way, the whole experience indicates that a 
conscience clause is in order. 
Todd David Whitmore is the director ofthe program in Catholic social tradition. His column runs every other Friday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obserner. 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
University offers assistance for 
victims of eating disorders 
I am commenting on the Sept. 27 Viewpoiut articlr entitlrd "ND nerds 1o hrar the silrnt sere-ams of eating disorders." Tbe author presents a µowerful picture ol' the nature and extent of eat­ing disorders within the college student popula­tion and specifically at Notre Dame. The two major suggeslions are: 1) The University must do more, anrl 2) Students with eating disorders ("vic­tims") must begin to admit they have a problem. I would like to address each of these suggestions. 
Currently, the UniYersity Counseling Center {UCC) addresses eating rlisorders both through education and remediation. Through sponsored talks in dorms, through consultations with ticnt settings. 
An eating disordnr is often only noticcahlo wlrnn it becomes more advanced. People who suffer . with an eating disorder develop many ways to hide their problem. Secrecy is essential to main­taining their goals. Seeking help includes "letting out tlrn secret" which is very, very dif'llcult. Givllll that it is an addiction, students with this problem beli1we that they need their eating disorder to attain their goals just as an alcoholic feels that he or she needs alcohol to live. They do not see alter­natives, nor do thev believe that treatment is in their best interest. ·Because avoiding detection 
and having a somewhat distorted self-image 
concerned others about someone they -----"---"--are part oftlrn problem, it is important love who suffers from an eating "" that we never give the impression 
disorder, and through the National Screening Day for Eating Disorders in February, counseling center staff attempt to inform, educate and promote eating disor­der awareness. UCC also adresses eating disorders through clinical intervention. Last year, approxi­mately 12 percent of 800 clients seen in individual counseling were judged to be suf­fering from an eating disorder by their coun­selors. Sixty students came in with concerns about a that we arc blaming the "vie­. tims" for their problem when "-., they resist either detection 
rt~\or professional help. The author makes any good points. We can and should do 
\ more. We must be caring and concerned without becoming vig­
----i·ilantes. Our staff and the Health Center staff are currently dis­
cussing ways to improve what we are now doing and to enhance our referral net­work. We also, as a com­munity of students, faculty ~-------------•'!"and administrators, need to 
friend. We estimate that well 
improve our environment to a over half of them were concerned point where body shape and weight about a possible eating disorder. are less emphasized or criticized. We 
The process of getting help at UCC for an eating disorder typically includes a medical evaluation and an assessment of the history and severity of the problem. This leads to recommendations for treatment. Treatment may include nutritional education, the use of psychotropic medication, individual psychological counseling and/or a structured group. All or any of these treatments may be used depending on the nature of the prob­lnm and the desires of the client. 
For some students, what we can offer is suffi­cient. For other students, what we offer is not suf­ficient. More intensive treatment is needed through specialized intensive outpatient or inpa­know that this behavior contributes to the prob­lem of eating disorders. Finally, we need to care for each other and encourage our friends to seek help rather than ignore manifestations of a prob­lem. l would like to thank the author for remind­ing all of us of the extent and complexity of the problem_. 
Patrick W. Utz, Ph.D. 
Director, University Counseling Center Concurrent Associare Professor of Psychology September 29, 1999 
History of Church book banning rips hole in Vinck's argument 
Yet again, I have finished another installment of Sean Vinck's column, and yet again, l am left shaking my head in disbelief. As usual, the self-sty led Pat Buchanan of Notre Dame has once again reiterated his pro-Church, ultra-conserva­tive dogma -this time in an article entitled "Limits of the free speech clause" (Sept. 28). And although 1 don't agree with his conclusions, I can s,ec where Vinck gets the (falseJ impression that so-called "liberal" groups are indeed exercising their own form of censorship by demanding means through which to enforce "political correctness." 
What I cannot understand, however, is how Vinck, a PLS major, can feel justified in making the following statement: "Our moral norms are deter­mined by the magisterial pronouncements of the Mother Church. Therefore, those things that con­stitute a moral danger to individuals in the com­munity or to the community as a whole ought to be prohibited." 
Now, Mr. Vinck proudly proclaims that he is a PLS major, and to my knowledge, the Program of Liberal Studies is often considered the "Great Books" program of Notre Dame. In my humble, non-PLS opinion, "Great Books" would most likely include works by Roussrau, Hobbes and Dante. It might even involve discussion of thinkers such as Galileo, Luther, Copernicus and Thomas Paine. But here comes the shocker: At one time in histo­ry, compositions by all of these brilliant men were placed on the Church's "Index of Prohibited Books." Today, of course, the (;hurch no longer issues an official list of banned books, but the mere fact that such an index once existed seems to open some very serious holes in Vinck's argument. If he truly believes that the Roman Catholic Church has the ultimate authority regarding the merits of literary pieces, does this mean Vinck feels that, in his eyes, the greatness of a work such as "Leviathan'' was somehow nonexistent during the period in which this treatise was part of the "Index of Prohibited l3ooks"? Docs this mean Vinck believes the redeeming literary value of "Leviathan" somehow only bubbled to the surface after the Church sanctioned, or at least allowed its reading? Did Hobbes' work somehow "morph" from immoral to acceptable? Somehow, that Vinck could actually support su,ch reasoning seems unlikely. 
Of' course, who am I to judge or even speculate upon his beliefs? I am, after all, a Protestant, and as an unenlightened heretic, what do I really know anyway? 
Sarah Wagner Junior Pangborn Hall September 30, 1999 
VIEWPOINT 
page 16 
Friday, October 1, 1999 

The impending 50th anniver­
sary of People's Republic of 
China today urged me to reflect 
upon what is going on in China 
in my absence of over one yoar. 
Moreover, 
a tinkling 
Fang Zhang
eagerness to 
P-xpress my 
feelings is 
sparkled by Guest Column 
my return to · China in this 
summer. 
Maybe somebody will say it 
should not make any difference 
if one stays in a foreign country 
for only 10 months. But it does. 
I was stunned by my disorien­
tation with the happenings in 
China in 1999. The initial feeling 
of treading upon my familiar 
homeland was that everything 
goes on as usual without my 
involvement. In Beijing, every­
thing is prosperous and superflu­
ous. Cranes make persistent 
noises day and night. 
Skyscrapers of commercial 
buildings delimit the city land­
scape. World fashions roam on 
the slim figures of beautiful girls. 
Colorful lanterns and banners 
decorate skylines. 
Around the boulevards of 
Tiananmen Square, when people 
loiter around at night, the loud­
speakers broadcast some famil­
iar songs, which eulogize the 
grandiose achievements of eco­
nomic reform and happy liveli­
hood of the people. Everywhere 
in the capital is vibrant, with fly­
ing colors of success. 
Before I left for the U.S., one 
friend joked with me saying that 
I was not qualified to speak 
about the changes in China 
because I was not physically 
there. At that moment, I felt he 
was right -though I shouldn't 
say that I was happy about it. 
Until now, my mind has been 
thinking about whether an over­
seas Chinese student is not eligi­
ble to talk about China. Mv 
answer is yes and no. "l\io;, prob­
ably echoes in those who have 
disconnected themselves for so 
long that they don't have the 
slightest clue of new changes 
and challenges faced by China. 
"Yes" reflects the thoughts of 
those who try every means to 
network into the happening;; in 
China. Personallv, I believe if one 
has the mind, no matter where 
he or she is physically, whenever 
he or she is nostalgir .about 
China symbolic of solidarity and 
family, he or she will attend to 
the events going on there. 
Last year, 1 was in the Peace 
Program at Joan B. Kroi; 
Institute of International Peace 
Studies. The original,motive to 
study in the program was to pro­
mote an imag,~ of China. In lhe 
whole vear, I had bePn verv 
careti1l in addressing how for­
eigners viPw and envision China. 
I was even cautious of my words 
and behavior because I believed that I represented China. lThe same truth can be said about all peace scholars who come from different countries,) Thanks to the Institute, I had the opportu­nity to give a country report of China, cook Chinese dishes (eth­nic meals) and write several papers on China, including human rights, WTO issues, tech­nology transfer, etc. In my spare time, I shared with my col­leagues the distinctive Chinese cultures, such as traditional Chinese paintings, calligraphy, music and art. Upon graduation in June, I was satisfied because I knew that some peace students would leave Notre Dame with some positive opinions about China from my representation. 
Hopefully they would hold China in high esteem. 
Until now, I have never given up my conviction that I am one element of China. The glory of China is closely associated with all Chinese. The physical depar­ture will not sever the cultural lineage from the.country. This conviction is furthered bv the coincidence on Sept. 29. ·1n sta­tistics class, economics professor 
B.J. Lee mentioned a census report that most Americans think China will surpass the U.S. · in the next centurv. At that moment, I felt proud about the national image of China though the afterthought was how this can he realized. 
On the occasion of the 50th anniversary of P.R. China, I think it is time for all overseas Chinese to think about what contribu­tions we can make to advance China. I am not here intending to provide moral lessons or propa­gate patriotic sentiments toward China. Instead, I am envisioning how many obstacles and chal­lenges China is going to be con­fronted with in the next millenni­um. I think China needs to real­locate itself in the international arena by voicing its upright opin­ions and challenge to readjust the orientations in its economic drive, among which there are agricultural programs, state­owned enterprises restructuring and environmental problems. 
I hope everyone agrees with me that one-fifth of the world population is significant for the overall development of humankind. Ahead of us, it is a long a.nd rugged journey, The efforts we contribute todav should pave an amenable ·path for our future. By the time we p1it our talents into practice, we would create a better future of the worlu:which is also a better future of China. 
Fang Zhang is a graduate stu­dent. 
ThP uiPws expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obseruer. 
The State: of the PRC 
When he was 40 vears old, Confucius said he was no longer confused. When he was 5i0, he knew the will of heaven. 
. The PPople's Republic of China is turning 50 today and is possibly less confused than it was a decade ago, but it has not romplctely mas­
Peter Mood~· 
tered the will of heaven. 
The Chinese revolution can be made to fit the pattern outlined in an Guest Column old-fashioned theory that revolutions move through stages: They begin moderately, fall into radicalism enforced through terror and then turn again to moderation, with a restoration of many of the evils of the old order -but also some of its humanitv as well. 
When the· Communist Party took power in 1949, it promised to end internal disorder, redress China's century of humiliations by foreign powers. achieve elementary social justice, raise the general standard of living and create conditions which would a.How people to live in peace and be happy in their work. But having achieved unchallenged . power, the Party chose to reorganize society according to its own Marxist-Leninist vision. 
The Great Leap . Forward of the late 1950s led instead in 1960 to history's most severe famine. The Cultural Revolution of the late 1960s direct­ed terror against those who had pre­sumed to question the policies and wisdom of the Leap. 
This, however, is a generation and more in the past. In the 1970s, China had been materially poor and ranked (with North Korea and Albania) among the most repressive of the communist societies. 
During the l 980s, China grew increas­ingly prosperous and also looser and more free. The "architect" of these reforms was an old-line commu­nist, Deng Xiaoping. During the depths of the famine, Deng had pushed limited eco­nomic freedoms espe­cially for the peas­antry -not because he particularly valued liberty, but because those policies were effective in overcom­ing the famine. When criticized for advocat­ing capitalism rather than socialism, he replied, "Who cares if a cat is black of white: If he catches the mice, he's a good cat." lfit works, it's a good pro­gram. 
Deng was jailed during the Cultural Revolution, but was brought back after it became the turn of the radicals to fall victim to the purge. Ile put through a program of. economic liberalization which not only raised the general standard of living (appar­ently for the first time in i;enturies), but also, as a kind of by-product, allowed consider­able personal and cultural freedom. Most people had enough to eat and wear; there was greater respect for the traditional Chinese heritage and the scientific and humanistic achievements of human civiliza­tion generally, There was a return to what most peop!P would consider normal life. 
The regime claims that the Chinese people today ar~i freer and more prosperous than they have ever bePn, and, with some qualifi­cations, the regime may be right. But the reforms bred problems of their own. 

China has certainly adopted the profit motive, but this is not quite the same as the free market. The economy has remained under political control, so the profits most easily accrue to those with political power or access to it, leading to pervasive corruption. The reforms have also brought,unemploy­ment and growing income disparities and have aeated conditions favorable to crime and vice. Although the state remains unde­mocratic and not necessarily responsive to popular discontents, it has also become weaker than before -which means it has limited ability to enforce the laws, collect taxes and discipline its own functionaries who abuse their power. 
Deng Xiaoping was not, when it came down to it, completely indifferent to the color of the cat. The pathologies of reform led 10 years ago to peaceful but massive protests by students and the population at large. Deng ordered the army brutally to suppress these protests. But ralculating that the troubles of the other communist regimes ca.me not from a lack of democracy but from poor economic performance, he contimrnd the liberal economic reforms while restrict­ing even further opportunities for political participation. 
The result is a chron­ic problem of legitima­cy. The regime can still count on support from a strong sense of Chinese nationalism, which in recent years the United States, for good reasons and bad, has done so much to provoke and feed. But beyond this what support there is for.the regime-: main-"·· ly passive !:ttlpport ­rests on economic per­formance. And perfor­mance in recent months has not been so good. Communist ideology has been discredited by the reforms and the regime's own behavior. 
Modernization and political repression have limited the effect of traditional belief sys­tems, whether Chinese or westerp. Democracy may have great appeal in the abstract, but after the events of 1989 seems a non-starter. 
During this past sum­mer, the regime con­ducted a vitriolic cam­paign against the Faltin Gong, a new sect com­bining kung-fu exercis­es with meditation and teachings derived main­ly from Buddhism. The sect grew in less than a decade from nothing to more than 100 million members, including Party members and army officers. 
Considering this surlden popull:!,rity, it is tempting to speculate (for it is really too early to know) that this reflects the general spiritual vacuum. The repression, using rhetoric rarely heard since the Cultural Revolution, is evidence of fear of any popu­lar force, however ostensibly nonpolitical, which the regime docs not control. 
The PHC enters its 50th year in good, if not robust, health -healthy because there is no debilitating disease in the environment because there is no alternative to the exist­ing order -not because of its good habits and sound constitution. The once revolution­ary state has still to lnarn the will of heaven. 
Peter Moody is a professor ofgovernment and international studies. 
The views expressed in this cplumn are those ofthe author and not ne~essarily those ofThe Observer. 
VIEWPOINT 
Friday, October 1, 1999 

I 
~ 
Hopes of peaceful 
lif~ guide Chinese 
/\ couple of years back, one of' the student'> wrote tn The Observer about his study abroad experience. The group of' students had the opportuni­ty to takCJ a trip to Priscilla Wong Beijing, China. lie came 
Guest Column 
away with the opin­ion that llrny, the student group. wern under tight control, presum­ably by the communist govern­nwnt. Ono of his points of' ref­tirence was that tho meals had all bnen arranged for them! 
If Lim student had been properly prepared for the visit, ho would have known that food is the center of hospitality for most Asian cultures. Travel agencies· will have difficulty selling tours if meals are not included in the package! It has nothing to do with the commu­nist party. 
Case in point: To understand C()mmunism in China requires understanding of the cultures and history of tho country and th,! global politics of the past 
hunclrf'd or so years. Most Chinese people from all ovor lhc world continue to grapple with tho evolving scenes in mainland China, and for most Americans, this is a very miw frontier of knowlPdgc and nxpcrim1cfl. 
In the 1940s, my fathflr's assignment lo work with the 
U.S. Air Force brought him from llong Kong to Kunming, Yunnan, a southwest!~rn province. I was born there in 1950 and, like many other kids born around that lime, I was considornd a "liberation kid" as tlrn newly formed People's Heµublic or China claimed suc­cess in turning upside-down the earlier dysfunctioning feu­dal social system and promis­ing equality and justice. People were hopeful even though pro­visions were meager. 
When our family moved to Hong Hong in 1957, we had to leave behind my oldest brother who had just started his first job. The cultural revolution was already simmering and it boiled over. It was 30 years of great uncertainty. When my brother finally made a trip to Hong Kong and Singapore to visit the family, he was mar­ried and a father of four chil­dren. For their children. he and his wife kept their focus. They lived through difficult times when neighbors some­times turned brutally against each other. They survived and neighbors, in most cases, rec­onciled. Their family kept them afloat. Earlier this year they celebrated the birth of their first. grandchild with hopes for a bright future. 
For a little more than 10 years now, the standard of liv­ing in China has improved substantially, but much has to be done to ensure continuous growth and stability in the sys­tem. If you ask an ordinary person in China what guides their life, I think the answers are the following: The hope of a peaceful family life with good educational opportunity for the kids and better income. 
If the government is ulti­mately the reflection of the poople and communism in China continues to evolve it, communist China will not be shrouded in mystery much longer. 
Priscilla Wong is the assis­tant director ofCampus Ministm. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those nf The Observer. 
O
THE 
BSERVER page 17 
From the Biggest Developing to the Biggest Developed 
First let me tell you a joke. When U.S. President George Bush, U.S.S.R. Chairman Mikhail Gorbachev and Chinese senior leader Deng Xiaoping were sitting together on a drive for vaca­tion, a big bull blocked the way. The chauffeur got mad because the siren couldn't throw the bull awav. Huang He picked up his gun and · Xiaosheng wanted to shoot. 
"Peace!" Bush said. "lPt's use the magic ofwords to Guest Column push the bull away." Two other leaders agreed. Bush made the first try by smiling at the bull: "Hey, my dear bull, 1can invite you to the United States to enjoy our democracy and lib­ertv." The bull didn't move. Gorbachev laughed at Bush. then yelled from tl1e car: "Listen, ifyou don't get away right now, T'll call the KGB to kill you." The bull still stood there. Bush and Gorbachev were very embarrassed. 
Now it's Deng's turn. Ile got oiTthe car and whis­pered to the bull for a few seconds. To all surprise, the bull ran away immediately. Bush and Gorbachev were amazed and asked Deng what he had said to the bull. Deng answered: "It's pretty simple. I'll let you act as the president of China if you don't go." 
Can you understand this political joke? It means that to manage China, the most populous and the biggest develpping country in the world, is a 
very tough job. The bull chickened out. 
If you are the head of China, your primary task should to provide food, clothing and shelter to the 
1.2 billion people, which consti­tutes over one fifth of the world. Although my country is the third largest country in the world, nearly one fourth of its land is not arable or inhabitable. 
Here in the United States, the earth and the heaven never agreed so better to create such a wonderful place to live in. While unsold food in WalMart will be put into a dustbin, mil­lions of my folks in China are still won­dering where they ,. can get their next lunch. How can we struggle for free assembly, free speech and a multiparty sys-tern on an empty stom­ach? 
It's not groundless that the Chinese gov­
-ernment focuses its deli­nition of human rights on basic subsistence rights instead of political liberties. Some people in China are not crazy with democracy and freedom, as they see it as a Pandora's box -leading to social turbulence . and economic retrogression. 
I'm not trying to justify the cur­rent Chinese government's position on human rights. China is far from respecting human rights. What I'm trying to say is that China has its own situations, reality and timetable for the democracy drive. Our journey to democracy will be hard, complex and even bleed­ing. Fortunately in recent years, economic reform, political onlightcnment and western influences are reshaping China. with visible changes taken place compared with that of 30 or 40 years ago. 
I don't think today's China should be labeled as a communist country. The communism is disappear­ing after 50 years of crude power exercise, man-made disaster and human suffering. Communism advocates elimination of private ownership of property or capital. 
Rut today in China, publit; ownership is consid­ered as the root of bad performance of state-owned enterprises. Although the central govern­ment is reluctant to recognize officially the role of privatization, it teaches people by saying "to get rich is glorious." Therefore, many private busi­nesses arc operating well and many successful entrepreneurs burgeoning. Some bosses even have their own planes. College graduates see working for Microsoft and HP as a proud thing. Girls chooso husbands by eyeing a Mercedes Benz or a BMW. 
China's present society has not been a totally egalitarian one. Hard work, good education and sound social connection enable brilliant people to become rich first and have an edge over others. Eat out? They can enjoy something in a small inn, McDonald's, Hard Rock Cafe or Shangri-La. Make a call? They pick up Motorola, Ericsson or an Internet phone. Talk about politics? Ten years ago, youngsters looked for the western style democracy or multiparty system; now, although some still do, many others are more concerned with their career development and material life. 
The Chinese Communist Party (CCP) has ceased to be a monolithic institution. The CCP has been transformed from a revolutionary party to a prag­matic, status quo party. There are still more and more youngsters who want to join it because the party membership remains a ticket to elite clubs and a license for higher positions. If one is sent to a party school, he must be the next person to be pro­moted. Those who are not interested in CCP can feel free to sing and dance in their nightclubs. 
Do all young CCP members believe in commu­
nism? My answer is no. They just want to seek to 
advance their career endeavors and power ambitions. I became a party member in ' 1997. but I knew what "communism"
-l-means yesterday by looking it up in / the Webster dictionary. Ten years ago, Chinese commu­nism should have died, but it did not. The student movement in the Tiananmen Square was sup­pressed. (I myself was an active participant in the Juno 4 move­ment.) This made many out­siders in the West disappoint­-~.. ed. Today, compared with 
' ' 1 the standards of human rights protection in advanced democracies, China's human rights 
progress makes those peo­pie further discouraged. 
Since I've been here in the United States, I have been able to understand these people in the west 
, 1 who are unhappy with
1 
..•-China's human rights record. I do hope that some­day Chinese people can enjoy the democracy and lib­
erty as Americans do. In the past, I couldn't understand why the U.S. was so powerful. Now l can sense that the power of the most 
powerful country in the world is ,,1 its democracy and liberty, or ,.. \ specifically, its constitution. The 
U.S. Constitution can hold the president accountable for his inap­propriate actions; Congress doesn't always go along with what the presi­dent says; any politician can be drawn as cartoon like Donald Duck. Even here at 
Notre Dame some students are looking into a legal action against University president Pather Edward Malloy. These things are unimaginable in China. Who is daring to cartoonize Jiang Zemin? Which student is daring to sue his schoolmaster? 
It took a jet plane 12 hours to carry me from the biggest developing country to the biggest already developed. But how long will it take to bring China into an advanced democratic country like the U.S.? 
Fifty years have elapsed. We need 50 more. Be patient. 
Huang Xiaosheng is an LLM student in the Center ofCivil and Human Rights ofNotre Dame Law School. 
The uiews expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
w E 
ceneN D 
AJ:HE 
page 18 vnSERVER Friday, October 1, 1999 
MlfootLall 

I 940 s 'Knute Rockne, All American' and 1993 s 'Rudy,' shine with pr~viding students and fans an alter11ative way to celebrate 
By JILLIAN DEPAUL Scene Mnvie Critic 
There is no doubt that at one time or another, all Notre Dame students have stopped to think how a college experience at Notre Dame is unique compared to one al any other school in th,e nation. Of course, no matter which school anyone chooses to attend, his or her experience will be different. But by choosing to attend NotrP Dame, one chooses a path that is different in a very distinct way. This is not to say that the Notre Dame experience is better than other college experiences by any means; it is merely unique. For example, how many colleges are the second biggest tourist attraction in their respective states? At how many schools do hun­dreds of thousands of people descend on campus during six or seven week­ends in the fall, making the students feel like the main attraction at a zoo? It may seem ridiculous to some on the outside looking in, but anyone who has spent a Saturday afternoon in autumn on the Notre Dame campus must admit it is not difficult to get caught up in the Notre Dame tradi­tion. Although the tradition of Notre Dame encompasses all facets of the University, a large part of Notre Dame's storied history is attributed to football, since it is the main reason for the high profile of the school. Notre Dame has been heralded as a place of hard work and an exemplary moral standard, and consequently, as a place where dreams come true. 
Out of the abundance of Cinderella­success stories associated with Notre Dame. two were made into popular American films: "Knute Rockne. All American'' in 1940 and, more recent­ly, "Rudy" in 1993. These films are glorifications of the tradition and his­tory of Notre Dame and are an indeli­ble part of its culture. 
"Knute Rockne, All American," directed by Lloyd Bacon, tells the story of the original Notre Dame leg­end, Knute Rockne, who emigrated from Sweden with his family when he was a small child, and lived out the American dream in the "land of opportunity." He worked hard for his chance at an education, and finally was able to matriculate at Notre Dame. 
Rockne was a talented man, both on the field and off. After he graduated from Notre Dame, he was faced with the difficult choice between pursuing a career as a scientist or following his passion for coaching football. If you know anything about Knute Rockne, then it is not hard to guess which one 

Image courtesy of Tristar Pictures 
In the final scene of "Rudy," Rudy (Sean Astin) exhibits the Notre Dame spirit by sacking the opponent's quarterback in an unimportant, last-minute play. 

he chose. Rockne was a man whose primary values were heart and spirit, and because of this, he was a great coach and an inspiration to his teams. 
Watching this movie is bizarre because, for decades, Notre Dame has been a perennial powerhouse in the game of football; therefore it is hard to see the Notre Dame football team as an underdog. But there actu­ally was a time, before Rockne revo­lutionized the game of football and established the Irish football team as the dominating force in collegiate athletics, when the Notre Dame foot­ball team was a humble bunch of Irish guys with nothing but the will to win. 
As outdated as this movie may seem at times, it has its moments of unde­niable relevance to the current sea­son and to every season. There is the famous speech delivered by George Gipp (former-President Ronald lleagan in probably his best known role) on his deathbed: "Someday, Rock, when the team is up against it ... tell them to win just one for the Gipper.'' 
During this disheartening season of Notre Dame football, the moment in this movie that stands out the most comes after Rockne's team loses to Army, breaking its 16-game winning streak. The student body still meets the team at the train station, with the fight song in the air and pride in the students' eyes. This is a reminder that the Notre Dame spirit is not gov­erned by the win-loss column of the football team. but by the integrity of the student body. 
A more updated look at the Notre Dame football culture is "Rudy," the 1993 film directed by David Anspaugh, about Daniel Ruettiger, 
a.k.a. Rudy, a "five-foot-nothing, a­hundred-and-nothing" scrub football player with the impossible dream to play for Notre Dame. 
Through amazing determination against all odds, Rudy gets in for the final play of the final game of his senior year, sacks the opposing quar­terback and is carried off the field by his teammates. (The real Rudy actual­ly played two plays from scrimmage and got his sack on the second, but the movie takes poetic license with this and a few other aspects of reali­ty.) 
It is rare to see a stack of movies in a Notre Dame dorm room that lacks "Rudy." The movie is an alternate ver­sion of the typical Cinderella story. Instead of a team being the Cinderella, the player is, and the goal is not winning, but merely being a part of a program with such an illus­trious history. 
"Rudy" is a modern day fairy tale to which everyone can relate because it is about following dreams through adversity and never giving up. For many people on this campus, coming to school at Notre Dame is a dream come true. Honestly, who hasn't felt a little bit like Rudy when he walks on God Quad, with that awed, kid-in-a­candy-store look on his face, and gets his first glimpse of life under the Dome? 
There has been some talk as of late about true fans, what they are and whether or not they exist on this cam­pus. After the last game against Michigan State, where there wasn't a tremendous showing of integrity and pride in the student section, some skeptics may argue that the magic of Notre Dame football is lost this sea­son. But the fact that dreams do still come true at Notre Dame, both on and off the field, shows that the magic is still alive and is much more than just a fairy tale. 
w E 
ceneN D 
O
THE Friday, October 1, 1999 BSERVER page 19 

tradition 
Notre Dame spirit, 
Fighting Irish. 

~ ~ ; .. 
~ ... ,: • ,j , 
-•·-~• y\:
•;,: '-::-_. .:':.·, ~-.•".';#£:?.; 
.., I -..,. • ;, • . . ~ t.t .t ~ ~ 
l ~ . ..._;_,., ~ ,;, , -,, ~•::! 't ;._J ,:.::. ·,' 
. Image courtesy of Warner Bmthers The 1940 fllm "Knute Rockne, All American" provides a look at the origins of the Notre Dame football spirit. 

By ANDREW McDONNELL Scene Writer 
There is always risk involved when one embarks upon a new journey. Always. Whether that journey is to the center of a volcano, to the edge of a slippery moss-covered cliff face, to the throbbing heart of an evil Mummy City on a hot day or to The Malabar a restau­rant one has never eaten in, 
. 
Location: 1640 South Bend Ave 

. 
Hours: 5 p.m. -9:30 p.m., Tue.-Thur. 


there is 5 p.m. -10 p.m., Fri.-Sat. always a 
g r e a t
. Phone: 282-2977 
sense of 
danger, of tremendous risk. And for those with enough gusto and spunk to face the daunting fangs of the unknown, The Malabar is not a bad place to head. 
Most people are probably thinking, The Malabar? The southwestern coastal region of Indh where Ancient Egyptians, Romans and Greeks frequently traveled in search of cloves, cinnamon, turmeric, saffron, coriander, ginger and of course, black pepper? Why that's positive­ly mad! That's much too far! 
Fools! South Bend has its own Malabar! 
Most everyone has driven past the restaurant at one time or another. It is located at the inter­section of Edison Road and South Bend Avenue, across the street from Lula's and The Backer. It is a small, unassuming building with a plain exte­rior, but the food within denies this plainness. 
The menu is small and varies from day to day, but what it lacks in variety, it more than compen­sates for in excellence. The menu offers main entrees such as Murgh (chicken) Tandoor, Murgh Curry, Pork (pig) Vindaloo, Lamb (Baaaa) Curry and a Vegetarian (grow grow, pluck pluck) Platter. And probably the best part of the entrees are the sides that accompany them. Each 'dish comes with large portions of aromatk basmati, rice, nan (an unleavened bread, baked in a clay oven). potato bhaji (a vibrant yellow sort of Indian potato salad), one or two vegetables, raita (chopped onions, tomatoes and peppers in a tangy dressing) and mint chutney. 
The side dishes are for the most part, wonder­ful. In particular, and in all seriousness, the nan and the potato bhaji are absolutely delicious. You cannot get such amazing nan or potato bhanji in any other part of South Bend outside of a private residence. That's a promise. 
There is also a delicious variety of desserts, such as The Malabar Cheesecake, vanilla ice cream covered in mango sauce and Kheflr -for 

RESTAURANT REVIEW 
.... 
Elizabeth Pullapilly is owner, manager and cook at The Malabar, a local Indian restaurant. 
The Malabar tastes good 
those who fancy themselves connoisseurs of rice pudding, unnatural as such a habit sounds. 
To "wash it all down" or "flood ye olde gullet," as they say. The Malabar has a nice variety of beverages. They offer the usual sodas, water, but then add such unique items as Mango Juice, a number of Indian beers with interesting names, wine coolers and a special after-dinner tea. And they probably wouldn't try and stop if you if you wanted to bring in a thermos of your own creamy rich hot chocolate, if you tell them that it is all you can drink on weekdays. 
The service at the restaurant is also wonderful. The Malabar is owned and operated by the Pullapilly family, a factor that adds a solid fistful of charm to any enterprise. The hostess is friend­ly and willing to talk, but by no means overbear­ing, and she refills the bread before there is even an opportunity to ask for more. The food took less than five minutes to arrive at the table from the time it was ordered, most likely because of the smaller menu. It was nevertheless quite an 
..
impressive display of speed considering the elab­orate nature of the meal that is eventually laid upon the table. 
The atmosphere of the restaurant is perhaps the only real matter worth improving in The Malabar. The brightly painted white walls are maybe a bit too dorm-roomish, and large glass windows with enormous shades face out into S.H. 23 and Edison, detracting somewhat from the ambiance of The Malabar. At least before the sun sets, they can give the restaurant a slightly drab feeling. 
However, the prerequisite sitar music hums on in the background, and there are a number of very nice Indiun decorations on the walls and in glass cases throughout the small restaurant. It is by no means an ugly place to eat. and the food more than makes up for the shortcomings of the physical surroundings. 
The prices are fairly reasonable for the amount and quality of food offered. Most entrecs run between $12 and $15, so it isn't the first place the student hudget"screams aloud for. But whl~n the average and the asinine cuisine of most places in the area becomes overbearing, The Malabar can be a great break from the routine of the dining hall, or pizzas, subs, tacos and burgers that tends to dominate the typical Notre Dame and Saint Mary's student diet. 
If interested in eating at The Malabar, one should also make note of its unusual opening times. One can get caught with a near-roaring deadline if one isn't aware of The Malabar's 
..... 
unusual schedule. It is open for service from Tuesdays through Saturdays, from 5:30 to 9:30. It is also a fairly small restaurant, so it might be worth the bother to call ahead and reserve a table. 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, October l, 1999 
NBA 
Utah re-signs two stars 
restful summer even though I was ~ociatcd Press 
unemployed the whole time." Last month, forward Karl Malone
SALT LAKE CITY 
signed a four-year, $66.5 million
John Stockton and Jeff Hornacek 
contract. With Stockton and
will return to take another shot at 
Ilornacek back, Utah is committed to
winning an NBA title, eager to give 
the trio that took the team to the
the Utah Jazz as much time as their 
finals.
aging bodies allow. 
Malone turned 36 in July. Although
The Jazz on Thursday announced 
the clock has been ticking on the
that Stockton, 37, signed a two-year 
Jazz for years, it's clear from the 
contract and Hornacek, 36. agreed to 
length of the Stockton and Hornacek 
a one-year deal. 
contracts the stroke of midnight
It remains to be seen whether the can't be too far away.
oldest backcourt in the NBA can lead 
"We all realize this is coming to an
Utah back to the NBA Finals, in 
Md," Stockton said. 
which Utah lost in 1997 and 1998. 
Miller said just as he rooted for
Both players made it clear they're 
John Elway to win the Super Bowl,
coming back to pursue the title. 
he's hopeful that Malone, Stockton
"You go for it. You're always trying 
and Hornacek can win the NBA title 
to win a championship," Hornacek 
before they retire. 
said when asked if this season marks 
"They're all important to the Jazz,
his last chance. 
to be sure, but also for what they
Terms weren't disclosed for either 
mean to the game. these guys
contract. Published reports say 
deserve to win a championship,"
Stockton, the NBA's career leader in 
Miller said. 
assists and steals. will be paid $22 
The problem for all three, and for
million while Hornacek's deal is 
the Jazz. is age. 
worth $5.2 million. 
Stockton and Hornacek at times
Jazz owner Larry Miller said dur­
were defensive liabilities in last
ing a news conference that he nego­
year's playoffs, being beaten off the 
tiated directly with the players. as he 
dribble by quicker legs. The Jazz
has done for years. Stockton said he 
were eliminated in the second round 
was never concerned he wouldn't get 
after Malone shot 3-of-16 from the 
a good dea.L 
floor in Game 6 against the younger
"There was a Jot of faith in each 
Portland Trail Blazers. 
other," Stockton said. "I really had a 
NHL 
Dallas looks to repeat 
In Saturday's games. it will be 
Associated Press 
Carolina at Boston, Toronto at Montreal, Ottawa at Philadelphia, New
DALLAS 
Jersey at Atlanta, the New York
The Dallas Stars do not believe in Islanders at Tampa Bay, Washington atstanding pat. 
Florida, Buffalo at Detroit, Phoenix at
When they open the NHL season 
St. Louis, Los Angeles at Nashville,
Friday night at home against the 
Anaheim at Dallas, the Rangers atPittsburgh Penguins, they will have a 
Vancouver, and Calgary at San Jose. 
different look from the team that won 
In not bringing back Ludwig, the
the Stanley Cup in the spring. 
Stars lost one of their last players fromGone will be Pat Verbeck, Dave Reid, their days in Minnesota. The remainingCraig Ludwig, Tony Hrkac and Roman 
North Stars are Mike Modano and
Turek. 
Derian Hatcher. 
Highly regarded prospects Jamie 
"Despite the fact we lost some playersPushor, Juha Lind and Pavel Patera are from last year, we have a lot of talent among those replacing the veterans. 
left," said Guy Carbonneau, at 39 years, 
So the Stars should be a younger, 
6 months, the oldest player in the NHLfaster team. Not that they'll neglect the this season. "The kids in training camptype of physical defense that helped showed a lot of promise." 
them win their first Cup in franchise The Stars think that repeating as Cuphistory. 
champions will be difficult. 
''This isn't a whole new offensive sys­"Last year was an unbelievable sea­tem," Stars coach Ken Hitchcock said. 
son, going all year being the best team"This is just a system that's based on in the league and being able to win the more use of what we have as a. team. 
Stanley Cup," Carbonneau said. "I thinkWe have more speed, so let's make bet­the same goal is in our mind this year,ter use of it. 
but we know it'll be much harder than"We're trying to become more of a 
it was last year because everybody
team that's going to come out cleaner, wants to try to beat the best."
rather than jam it in areas and try to 
At Edmonton, the Rangers-Oilers
jam it out." 
game will feature a tribute to WayneWhile the Stars are raising the Cup Gretzky. Before finishing his career in
banner in Dallas, the New York 
New York last season, the NHL's all­Rangers will play at Edmonton in the 
time scoring leader led the Oilers to
other NHL opener Friday night. 
four Stanley Cups during the 1980s. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at rhe Notre Dame office, 
024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds . 
....  HEAVENLY HAM Immediate  Washer&Dryer. Apartment­ SPRING BREAK 2000  
NOTICES  Openings for Energetic Individuals. Store Work Hours: M-F 7:30 to 5:30 Sat: 8:00 to 2:30 No Sundays Will  FOR RENT  sized, stacking w/ frame. Hooks into sink faucet. Great condition $500/obo 631-6101.  "THE MILLENIUM" A NEW DECADE... NCE lN TRAV• EL.FREE THIPS,FREE  PERSONAL  
schedule work around lasses.Apply  ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE  MEALS!JAMAICA,CANCUN,FLORI  
THE COPY SHOP  at 2307 Edison. 288-4267  HOME FOR  Ordinary looking sunglasses with  DA,BAR~llOS,BAHAMAS.SIGN  Cynthia, Allie, Mary, Laura, Stella,  
LaFortune Student Center PHONE 631-COPY  WANTED: 1 or 2 Jr. or Senior  ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  unique feature: Built in, undetectable.  UP BY NOV. 5 FOR 2 FREE TRIPS AND FREE MEALS!  and Jeanine Howdy.  
www.CopyShopND.com  classwomen to host 2  243-0658.  "REAR VIEW MIRRORS"!  1800-426-771 0  
Store Hours  highschool senior girls wanting to  View everything behind you without  WWW.SUNSPLASHTOURS.COM  And here's a special one for Sean.  
Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight  see Notre Dame, hoping to  HOMES CLOSE TO CAMPUS  anyone knowing you  Are you still having insecurity prob·  
Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm  attend.Tim·e starts with lunch at  http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/  can.Bicyclist,Beach Combers.Kool  BIG IRISH CATHOLIC  lems?  
Sat: Noon-6:00pm  University Club Friday October 15  232-2595  Dudes.send:  FAMILY!NEED 16 GA TIX FOR  
Sun: Noon-Midnight  at noon, with a post-pep rally dinner  $11.75  USC GAME!CALL DAVE @ 773­ High-Speed Copies,  
at Carriage House.Includes all day  THAT PRETTY PLACE,  To: J.R.T. P.O. Box 1066  281-7690 OR 610-971-2295  Color Copies, Binding,  
"tailgate" Saturday in Joyce South &  Bed and Breakfast Inn has space  Laurel, MD 20725  WITH ANY TIX.THANKS.  Fax Service, R<!sUm<!S,  
WANTED  any incidental expenses.Other plans welcomed.Contact 219-287·  available for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $80­ ARA PARSEGHIAN CHARITY  WANTED:USCTIX  Business Cards, Laminating, & a whole lot more  
1405, leave message.  $115, Middlebury, 30 miles from  SALE & AUCTION  247·1659  at  
STUDENT OPENINGS  campus. Toll Road Exit #107, 1­ 1000 N.D. ITEMS  THE COPY SHOP  
5-30 hrs./week. Flex. around  Browse icpt.com for Springreak  800-418-9487.  PLUS OTHER GREAT SPORTS  FOR SALE:  Lafortune Student Center  
classes. Scholarships avail.  "2000". ALL destinations ffered.Trip  COLLECTIBLES  OKLAHOMA TIX  Phone 631-COPY  
www.workforstudents.com/lN 282-2357  Participants.Student Orgs & Campus Sales Reps  LOADED 6 Bedrm '00·01 yr. 273·0482 / 234-3831  OCT. 15 · 9AM-9PM LOGAN CENTER  271-9330  Free Pick-Up & Delivery!  
Spring Break '00  anted.Fabulous parties.hotels & rices.Call Inter-Campus 800-327­ BED 'N BREAKFAST  1235 N. EDDY BENEFITTING ARA'S FOUNDA·  Need 3 USC tickets Please call Tom 634-1440  Quality Copies, Quickly! We're open early, late, &  
Cancun.Mazatlan or Jamaica  6013  REGISTRY  TION & THE LOGAN CENTER.  weekends.  
From $399 Reps wanted! Sell 15  219-291-71S3  CALL LAWRENCE FOR MORE  ND MOM NEEDS 11 ARIZ. STATE  THE COPY SHOP  
and travel free! LOWEST PRICES  REFEREES: REFEREES NEEDED  INFO, RAFFLE TICKETS & LIST  GA'S. PLEASE CALL  Lafortune Student Center  
GUARANTEED"!  FOR BASKETBALL & INLINE  3,4 & 5 bdrm homes. Tall ceilings,  OF AUTOGRAPH GUESTS.  1-800·447-1200, THEN  Phone 631-COPY  
lnfo:Call 1-800-446-8355  HOCKEY. THIS IS A TREMEN•  wash/dry, walk to campus. call for  219·257-0039.  PRESS 2-2242. CALL WILL BE  Quality Copies. Quickly!  
www.sunbreaks.com  DOUS OPPORTUNITY TO EARN  more info. 289-4365  RETURNED ASAP.  
GOOD MONEY. MEET NEW PEO·  AUSTRALIA!  
DON'T WORK THIS SCHOOL YEARI $1200 TO $2000 THIS  PLE, & HAVE FUN! EXPERIENCE HELPFUL, BUT WE WILL TRAIN  Beautiful Home. 5 bedrooms, two bathrooms. Brand new stove, refrig·  TICKETS  Need sets of two or four tickets for Navy or USC games. Call Brian at  SUMMER IWINTER/INTER­SHIPS/SEMESTER PROGRAMS  
MONTH. Part time 4 to 6 hours per week. Call 24 hrs (219) 239-6709  EVERYBODY. CONTACTTHE RECSPORTS OFFICE-BRAN· DON LEIMBACH OR JEFF WALK·  erator, dishwasher, washer and dryer. Alarm. Attached garage. Fenced yard. Immaculate condition.  WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT· BALL TICKETS  634-3346. $$$$$$$$  www.study-australia.com Contact chrjs@study-australia.com  
Help wanted at 4 Michiana loca­ ER@ 631-6100, OR STOP BY  675.0776  271-1526  NEED A HANG TAG FOR OK.  Hi mom. Hi dad.  
tions. Great pay, flex. hrs. No  THE OFFICE IN THE ROLFS  WEEKEND. WILL PAY BIG  
Sundays. Apply in person or send  SPORTS RECREATION CENTER  8 bedroom house. 2 baths.  SELL & BUY GA FOOTBALL TICK­ BUCKS. CALL KEITH @ 234­ Tandem: You thought we forgot  
resume to: FRULLATI CAFE/UP MALL 6501 N. GRAPE RD. #576  TODAY. REFEREE MEETINGS WILL TAKE PLACE IN THE ROLFS  Completely renovated. ND Ave. 675.0776  ETS277·6619  8646 $$$$$$  about you, didn't you?  
MISHAWAKA, IN 46545  SPORTS REC. CENTER MEET·  WANTED -ND football !ix.AM ·  Well, we didn't.  
SPORTS CLUBS & STUDENT GROUPS -Earn $1000-2000 with  ING ROOM ON WED. 10/6 AT 6PM FOR HOCKEY AND AT 7PM FOR BASKETBALL  5/6 BDRM HOMES."00·0lYR 272· 6551  232·2378 PM -288-2726 ND football !ix for sale.  Need up to 1 O USC tix for family. Will pay top $. Call Matt at 273-2802.  How've you been?  
easy CIS Fund event.No sales required.Fund Ras1er days are fill­ EARN FREE TRIPS AND CASH!!!  6BDRM$150 person.272-6306  AM · 232-2378 PM • 288-2726  FOR SALE:  Mental decay makes for interesting classes.  
ing up, so call today.Contact Joe @  SPRING BREAK 2000  I NEED GA TIXS  ASUTlX.  
..  1-888·522-4350  •CANCUW •JAMAICA• For 10 years Class Travel  FOR SALE  ALL HOME GAMES. 2726551  271-9331  Cadillac man or dining hall man?  
Loving ND-SMC couple wishes to adopt Will provide a lifetime of laughter,love,devotion and opportu­ International (CTI) has distin· guished it.self as the most reliable studen1 event and marketing orga­ Spring Break Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise 5 Days $279! Includes  BUYING and SELLING N D FOOT­BALL TICKETS.  NEED FOOTBALL TIX FOR ARI· ZONA GAME. CALL JACK AT  Girls: Rockin' Sorority tailgater. Same time. same place.  
nities. 800-484-4699 code 0019  nization in North America  Meals!  GREAT PRICES. CALL 289·8048  219· 257•1141,  This one's for Sarah: The next two  
FREE TRIPS AND CASH1!! SPRING BREAK 2000 Studen!City .com is looking for Highly Motivated Students to pro­mote Spnng Break 20001 Organize a small group and travel  Motivated Reps can go on Spring Break FREE & earn over $$$$$ $10,000' $$$$$ Contact Us today for details! 800/328-1509 w .classtravelintl.com Nude Male models needed tor stu­ Awesome Beaches,Nightlife1Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights From $3991 FLonda $1291springbreaktravel .com 1-800-678•6386  +++++++++++++++++++++++++++ N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS BUY/SELL/TRADE ALL GAMES ALL LOCATIONS GREAT PRICES  For SALE 2 tixs all games 272· 6306 Need 2 Arizona St. tickets!! Call Peter at 4-1606.  weeks will be quite sad. For some sick reason FOX has decided to pre-empt 9021 Ofor some silly base­ball games. Now I love baseball as much as any full-blooded American male, but this is not right.  
-- FAEEIITop campus reps can earn a Free Trip & over $1 0,000!Choose Cancun, Jamaica or Nassau! Book Trips On-Line. log In and win FREE stuff.  dent Art film. Mere: 247-1810 TUTORS needed for college & high school students in Algebra & Intermediate Algebra. Also need tutors for general help/review in  FOR SALE N.D. FOOTBALL TIX CALL 271-9412 FOR SALE N.D. FOOTBALL TIX CALL 271-9412  271-9330 IINO STUDENT TICKETS!! TICKETMART INC. www.ndtickets.com +++++++++++++++++++++++++++  Will trade 2 ASU or Navy or BC GA's for 2 USC. Will sell Tenn/ ASU/Navy/BC tix. 607-336-7218  To my favorite girl who salts her chicken, I owe you one Becky, congrats on the big win. your linebacking skills are killer.  
Sign Up Now On Line! www.StudentCity.com or 800/293-1443  Eng.,Sociology, Psychology. Call Linda at 272-8235 or email-lwaelch­li@datacruz.com  Phone Cards, 669 min/$20 243-9361 or 258-4805  FOR SALE N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS CALL 271-9412  FOR SALE. ND FOOTBALL TICK· ETS. OKLAHOMA $60, ASU $60, NAVY $55, BC$55. 289-8048.  Stacey, light a candle, pray to keep the car... or you could actually study, nah, lets go to the Grotto .  

..__ ___________ -·----·---·--------~-·---------------------------------------------------·--------__,. 

Friday, October 1, l 999 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
-
r-------------------------------------------..... now manages 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Towson makes Goodman's cut 
staff over his refusal to play Associated Pres~ on the Jewish Sabbatb as the reason why he turned BALTIMORE down the offer from the Prep schuol star Tamir Terrapins. ffo adheres to a 
Goodman, who has turned kosher diet and wears a down an ()ral scholarship yarmulke. even on the court. of'for from Maryland. con­The Jewish religion dP-ems tinned Thursday that his top the Sabbath is a day of rest, choicfl is Towson. adding meaning basketball is strict­thal he is also considering ly forbidden. l)nlaware, Bowling Green The 6-foot-3; 159-pound and Georgia State. Goodman averaged 35.4 
"I am not making any points a game last year for agrcomnnts. I'm being the Talmudical Academy, a I\Xtrnmely patient. "said .Jewish dav school near 
Goodman, a 17-year-old Baltimore · that has an Orthodox Jnw who refuses enrollment of only 72 stu­to play on Saturday, th11 dents. Goodman transferred Sabbath. Lo Takoma Academy, a llis futhnr. Karl. said Seventh-day Adventist 
Tamir won't decide on a school in Takoma Park, for school until after the high his senior year. school baskPthall s1~ason The Basketball News f'irst ends in :\pril.. reported Goodman's top 
Goodman cited friction four choices Thursday on its with tlw Maryland coaching Weh site. 
Notre Dame Alum and GE Chief Financial Officer Keith Sherin 
(Class of 1981) 

Discuss -'-'GE's Growth Initiatives for the New Millennium" 
October -5th 3:4·5 -5:00pm ~ · : 
• 1 , Jordari'Auditorium ' . i, 
f ' ,I. ."' 
. ' 
Find Out How e-Business, Quality and Globalization are Fueling the Growth of "America's Most Admired Company*" 
Our Businesses: 
. 
GE Aircraft Engines 

. 
GE Appliances 

. 
GE Capital Services 



We're 
. GE Industrial Systems 
Interviewing
. GE Lighting 
. GE Medical Systems Oct. 27th-28th 
. NBC 
. 
GE Plastics 

. 
GE Power Systems 

. 
GETransportation Systems 


If a Challenging Position, Continuous Development and Broad Growth Opportunities Interest You, Sign-up to futerview For: 
• 
Financial Management Leadership Program 

• 
Edison Engineering Development Program 

• 
Operations Management Leadership Program 

• 
Technical Sales Leadership Program 

• 
Information Management Leadership Program 


Leam about us at-·, ,, 
www.gecareers.com '~ e 
,-------------------------~IM:.:..:.ebring good things to life. 
GE Aircraft Engines• GE Appliances• GE Capital Services• GE Corporate Research and Development• GE l~dustrial Systems GE lnlormation Services• GE Lighting• GE Medical Sv,tems • GE Plastics• GE Power Systems• GE Supply• ne Transportation Systems• NBC Fortune® Magazine "3/1/99 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Rookie Durazo leads Arizona 
that had seen their lead in the caught up with him," said 
Associated Press 
NL West dip to five games. Arizona manager Buck 
"I guess the best complement Showalter, who admits he's a bit
PHOENIX 
you could give him is when you mystified at Durazo's surge to
Of all the great baseball sto­
look at him now. you don't even the big-time. "He's 25 years old.
ries that have evolved in 
think this guy came from and I don't have a whole lot of
Arizona this summer. Erubial 
Double-A ball three months answers where he's concerned." 
Durazo's might be the best. 
ago," Arizona reliever Dan In 1998, he hit .350 with
The 25-year-old first baseman 
Plesac said. "He's played so well Monterrey and, at Bryant's urg­
tore through the Diamondbacks' 
and his defense has improved so ing, the Diamondbacks pur­
minor league system in three 
dramatically that now it seems chased Durazo's contract. 1 
torrid months before being 
like he's a five-year player. He's Durazo started the season at
called up to the big club, where 
got as many big hits for us as Double-A El Paso, where he hit
he took over as starter from 
anybody else on the team." .403 with 14 homers and 55
slumping Travis Lee and never 
This is not Durazo's first stint RBIs in 64 games. On .June 19,
lookfld back. 
in the state of Arizona. He grew he was promoted to Triple-A
"I do my job everywhere I go," 
up on a ranch nflar Hermasillo, Tucson, where he hit .417 in 28
said the shy young man with 
Mexico, and moved to Tucson games with JO homers and 28
braces who has become ana­
for his senior year in high school RBIs.
tional sensation in his native 
in hopes that he would have a "It was like 'Wow. let's see if
Mexico. 
better shot at being noticed by he can do it at the next level.·
Since coming to the 
major league scouts. 'Wow, he did it at this level, let's ­
Diamondbacks on July 25, 
He stuck around after gradua­sefl if' lrn can do it at the next
Durazo has hit .327 in 150 at­
tion and attended Pima level,'" Showalter· said. "He'd be 
bats with 11 home runs and 29 
Community College. lie was a the first to tell you the jury's still 
RBIs. A left-handed batter, he 
skinny kid then, just 175 out, but he's handled everything 
has homered to all three fields. 
pounds, and was mostly a pitch­thrown at him so far."
Two of his home runs were 
er. The scouts apparently Durnzo quietly insists hfl has 
among the team's biggest hits 
weren't impressed, not been overwhelmed by his
this S('ason -off John Smoltz 
Durazo went back to Mexico, sudden success.
Sept. 4 at Atlanta -as the 
went to work on the ranch and "I don't read the paper or
Diamondbacks rallied for a 5-4 
played semipro baseball. Dernk watch TV. I don't want tu get
victory to end a threo-game skid 
Bryant, a well-known manager distracted," hfl said. in Mexico who And he is far from satisfied. "You never know in baseball. 

"Need insurance for your wheels?" 

-
.... 
Being in good hands is the only place to be~ 
Arizona's Class A team at High Desert. Calif.. had watched Durazo since the youngster was 15, and he per­suaded him to sign with Monterrey. 
Durazo worked his way up through the Mexican minor league system and made it to Monterrey as a right fielder in 1997 and was rookie of the year. He worked out constantly to build up to 225 pounds on his 6­foot-3 frame. 
"All of a sud­den the strength and everything It's a tough career," Durazo said. "Sometimes guys make it two or three months. I'm not happy. I want to stay here a long time." 
General manager Joe Garagiola Jr. is confident about Durazo's future. 
"I don't sec anything in his approach that suggests that he's going to be one of these one­year or half-of-one-year won­ders, that he has some real hole in his game that people will be able to figure out and exploit," Garagiola said. 
Durazo's emergence has cre­ated speculation about the future of Lee, signed to a then­re cord $10 million bonus in 1996 as tho supposed corner­stone of the new franchise. Lee went out with an ankle injury shortly after Durazo's arrival and has played two games in right field since returning. 
Lee might be lucrative trade material in the offseason. 
t 
. 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, October 1, 1999 
-
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Cincinnati enjoys 
surprising season 
Associated Press 
CINCINI\ATI 
A handwritLf!n note lcuning against a chalkboard in the Cincinnati Reds clubhouse cap­tures their season in two sen­tences. 
"Thanks for bringing baseball back to Cincinnati," a fan wrote in neat script. "It's been a great season no matter whai hap­pens." 
It's been more than great ­it's beeu amazing. For the first time in years, the 
-Reds are making news for something other than Marge Schott's mouth. They're buck­ing ihe small-market blues by r.ontending for a playoff spotwith a limited payroll and boundless enthusiasm. They've become baseball's darlings and revived a fran­chise with one improbable sea­son. ''I've been getting a lot of calls lately from all over the coun­try," said manager. Jack McKean, who at 68 1s old enough to be some of his play­ers' grandfather. "I think we're the sentimental favorites. "I think everybody would like to see us go far. all the way to the World Series, because we're scrappy and we have an interesting bunch of guys and we have a low payroll. I don't think the big-money guys would like to see us get in." The big-money guys have dominated the playoffs in recent years as salaries escalat­
tention as the season wears on. This team hasn't. 
-After a day off Thursday, the Reds finish the season with three games at Milwaukee that: will decide whether they make the playoffs. They were tied for first in the NL Central with 
Houston and led the New York Mets by 1 1/2 games for the wild card. 
"You couldn't have scripted it any better," first baseman Sean Casey said. "We're going into the last weekend of the season with the postseason on the line." 
The Reds have held their own against teams that have out­spent them 2-to-1. The si.x major league teams that already have clinched playoff berths had opening day payrolls ranging from $61 million to $85 million. The Mets' was $63 mil­lion, while Houston's was $52 million. 
-
"No one said we were sup­posed to be here," cleanup hit­ter Greg Vaughn said. "We were supposed to pack our 
bags and fly to Milwaukee for the last series and then go on our way." 
Forced to do more with less, the Reds have gotten by with young players and part-time players filling their part without complaint. They've reveled in the role of underdog. 
Mark McGwire was so 
impressed by the !{eds' spirit 
last weekend that he wanted to 
talk about them, not his latest 
record-tying homers during a 
series at Cincinnati. 
"They are the perfrict exam­
ple of what the game is all 
about," McGwire said. 
In recent years. tlrn !{eds 
have been the perfect example 
of what was wrong With base­
ball. 
Schott received punishments 
for inflammatory comments 
and the team went thre<' years 
without a winning record as it 
slashed payroll and rebuilt. 
Schott has been muzzled by 
baseball and is in her fmal days 
as owner -she has agreed to 
sell control of the team to three 
limited partners for $67 mil­
lion, a deal that should be 
signed in early October. 
Instead, the spotlight has 
been on players like Casey, who 
arrived last year in a trade and 
is so pfn-sonable that he's 
known as "The Mayor" because 
he seems to know everyone. 
"Peo pie are people." said Casey, who loves to talk whether he's meeting fans or greeting an opposing runner at first base. "I always think · everyone wants to have a good conversation, ifyou can have it. Maybe I seem a little naive. I 
just enjoy people." 
The Reds have been a good 
conversation piece since the 
offseason, when general man­
ager Jim Bowden substantially 
improved his club through 
trades and 
free-agent
"I think everybody would 
ed and the gap signings.
widened like to see us go far. all 
The Reds got
between the 
the way to the World the kind of
haves and break that a
Series, because we 're 
have-nots. 
small-market
Teams like scrappy and have an 
team needs tothe Reds. who interesting bunch ofguys compete when
had a $33 mil­the San Diego
and a low payroll. " 
lion opening 
Padres offered
day payroll, 
to trade
usuallv drop 
Jack McKeon Vaughn, who 
out ~f con­
Reds' Manager was coming off 
a SO-homer 
season. 
Vaughn has hit 43 homers, driven in 114 runs and become the first play­er in franchise history with 40 homers, 100 RBIs and 15 steals in a season. He carried the team through 
September with 14 homers, matching Frank Robinson's franchise record for one month. 
"He's the one that took all the pressure off our young play­ers," Bowden said. "You don't go out and get 40-homer, 100­RBI guys, and you don't win without them." 
The only downside to the sea­son has been the fans' reluc­tance to get carried away by it. The Reds drew 2 million for the first time since 1993, but had hoped for more. 
In their World Series champi­onship season of 1990, the Reds drew 2.4 million. 
"After a few bad years, it takes the fans a while to get serious," McKeon said. "They say, 'Are they for real or not?' " 
Crowds picked up for the last home series, when the Reds made one remarkable come­back after another that proved they're for real. 
"This is a very special team," catcher Eddie Taubensee said. 'Tm having more fun this year than I ever have. Whether we make the playoffs or not, it's something I'll never forget." 
McGwire takes homer lead 
Associated Press 
ST. LOCIS 
Just like in the movies, the sequel to the great home run derby will try to top the origi­nal. It may not quite surpass it, but it will come close. 
MrGwire vs. Sosa, man to man, face to face. 
The St. Louis Cardinals and Chicago Cubs wind up the season with a three-game seriMstarting Friday night that would be totally mean­ingless except for the home run title at stake. 
The Cardinals are 11 games below .500, and the Cubs had only three more victories than Sammy Sosa has homers entering Thursday night's game in Philadelphia, yet there's no denying a certain electricity. 
!\lark McGwire took the lead for the first time since Aug. 18 when he hit Nos. 62 and 63 in a doubleheader sweep of the San Diego Padres Wednesday night. He has homered in each of the last four games. although he insists his charge has absolutely nothing to do with wanting to top Sosa. 
Sosa. who was ahead 55-51 entering September, had a 30 at-bat homer drought this monthand was one behind heading into Thursday night's game in Philadelphia. He was the firstplayer to hit 60 in consecutive seasons and the first to beat Roger '.'vlaris' 1961 record of 61 in consecu­tive seasons, but just like last year he's trailing down the stretch. 
Busch Stadium figures to have at least a semblance of the atmosphere during 

McGwire'srecord 70-homer season from 1998, with the series sold out for months. The scene may more closely resemble the lower-key set­ting for McGwire's 500th career horner last month, however, when 50 or 60 out­side media requests were filled, instead of the 700 or so 
during the Maris chase at the height of McGwire-mania. · That's what you get with a sequel. 
McGwire, who had 65 homers with three games to go last year, believes fans are disappointed there won't be another challenge to the record. 

Start at the top -with the one compa,ry that can supportyour highest aspirations. 
At SEI, ambition drives our leadership, and opportunity drives your success. 'We don'tjust encourage your ambition, we reward it, with the innovation, stability and·self-directed career it takes to fulfill your visions of the furure. 
Ambition wanted. Futures delivered. 
lnfarmation Session 
Monik!J, 0dobcr4, 1999 Notre Dame Room, Mnrris Inn 7:00 PM 
Equal Opportunity Employer 
SEJ 
Inveshnents 
The art of people. The science of re;ults. www.seic.com/newhire 
Friday, Ocrober l, l 999 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
GOLDMAN, SACHS & CO. 
The ring pull. 
It's convenient. It's efficient. ­And it's simply brilliant. 
Want to learn more about a career that fosters this kind of thinking? Consider this an open invitation for open minds. 
Goldman Sachs is a leading international
Sunday, October 3, 1999 
investment banking and securities firm, providing a full range of investment and
Investment Banking Division 
financing services to corporations, governments,Information Session institutions and individuals worldwide. 
7:00 P.M.-9:00 P.M. Our philosophy, "Minds. Wide Open."5"' emphasizes our open collaborative atmosphere
Center for Continuing Education 
wherein ideas are shared and innovative
Room 100 thinking is encouraged. We believe that our teamwork culture affords opportunities for all individuals to have an important impact on the building of our ) businesses and their success. 
Casual Attire Consider becoming a member of our team. 
Goldman
Saens ­
Minds. Wide Open!m ­
www.gs.com 
, __ 

page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Friday October 1, 1999 

NFL 
QB pleads no contest in parking scam 
Associ~ted Press 
LOS ANGELES 
Chicago Bears quarterback Cade McNown. admitting he made a mislake nearly three vears ago, pleaded no contest Thursday to a misdemeanor charge of illegally possessing a handicappPd parking placard. 
-
Current UCLA safety Eric Whitfield and !:Ortner Bruins fullback Craig Walendy entered the same pleas before Municipal Judge Sam Ohta, joining 13 other current and 
former UCLA football players who previously agreed to a plea agreement. 
All 16 have been ordered to pay $1,485 in fines and per­form 200 hours of community service. and also must spend a day meeting with the disabled and their advocates. 
The final three charged in the matter were scheduled for arraignment Thursday in Los Angeles Municipal Court, but were granted continuances until Oct. 20. 
McNown's lawyers, Ronald Safer and Stanley Greenberg, entered the no contest plea. McNown issued a statement nearly three hours later from the Bears' practice site in Lake Forest. Ill. 
It read: "During offseason workouts at UCLA, I applied for a handicapped parking stickm. Although I was injured. the process by which I acquired the permit was wrong, and for that I am sorry. I had trouble getting around, but applying for the sticker minimized the needs of permanently disabled persons. I deeply regret the incident occurred. and hope people don't judge me on this particular mistake." 
McNown refused to comment further, citing the advice of his lawyers. He could not be found earlier when the Bears' locker room was open following prac­tice. 
Safer emphasized outside court that McNown never used 
ALL STADIUM SEATING• ALL DmrrAL SouNo 
SuowPLACE 16 
Jlli.tWest of t.b,lln SL an Ch~•299-(i(l6l
IS1mfents and Senf~t$ s4silngrne l:
-
l4,s O IShows Bef<ll'e 6 pm • .MvDtJett Th:lr,et SM!lii. A,•itilable ":1 b. i 
All Times for October 1st-3rd Sat.. Sun & MON Matinees in [Brackets) 
a handicapped parking space, and said the state had no such evidence. 
"The crime is obtaining and possessing this handicap stick­er," Safer said. "He did not obtain the placard through cor­rect channels, and he acknowl­edges that. He should have fol­lowed procedures and seen a doctor himself instead of some­body else obtaining a doctor's signature." 
Safer said the All-American quarterback, who led th_e Bruins to the Pac-10 champi­onship last season, believed at the time that the doctor's sig­nature was valid. The lawyer wouldn't elaborate further. 
McNown was a first-round draft choice of the Hears last April. 
Deputy city atlorney Brian Williams said he expected the three remaining men charged -Washington Redskins run­ning back Skip Hicks, Kansas Cily Chiefs safety Larry Atkins, and former UCL!\ linebacker Brendon Ayanbadejo -to enter no-contest pleas Oct. 20. 
Marvin Demoff, Atkins' lawver, said it was "highly like­ly" .his client would do just that. 
"It was an unfortunate situa­tion and one that is best resolved," Demoff said. 
Howard Silber, who repre­sents llicks and Ayanbadeju, said his clients "just aren't ready to accept what the other defendants have pied to already, although I'm not say­ing we won't. We'd like to get this t~~ing resolved sooner than later. 
The city attorney's office brought charges July 8 against 14 current or former players alleged to be part of the dis­abled parking scam, and five more were charged Sept. 13. Nine entered pleas on July 28, four more on Sept. 14. 
Ten, including Whitfield, are members of the current team and were suspended for the season's first two games. 
Blue Streak (PG-13) Digital [2:20] 5: 10 8:10 10:40 SixthSeme (PG-13) D1giwl [2:101 4:50 7:20 '>50 
Double Jeopardy (RJ Digital [2:00] 4:307:15 9:45 [2:50] 5:30 8:00 10:30 
For Love ofthe Game fPG-IJ) Digit.II , 11:00] 4:00 7:00 10:15 
Runaway Bride  (PG)  Digital  
[2:30] 5:40 8:20  
Bowtinger  (PG-13)  Digital  
3:45 9:30  
Stigmalll  fR)  Digiwl  

13:00] 5:25 8: 15 10:40 
The Wood (R) 
lI :30] 4:50 7:20 9:-.5 
The General's Daughter (R) 
fl:20J 4:30 7:10 10:00 
Big Daddy (PG-lJ) 
I1:401 4:40 7:30 9:40 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
T'wolves, Wild n1ay buy Twins 
Associated Press 
ST. PAUL, Minn. 
The owners of' Minnesota's NBA and NHL teams are were working on a deal to buy the Minnesota Twins, contingent upon the construction of a new stadium in St. Paul. 
The plan would have the Twins, the NBA's Timberwolves and the NHL's Wild start their own regional sports cable television net­work that would broadcast games of all three teams. 
The principal participants in the talks were Wild !Flad owner Robert Naegele Jr., Timberwolves lead owner Glen Taylor and Twins owner Carl Pohlad, reports said Thursday. 
The Star Tribune of' 
Minneapolis said a group led by Naegele and Wild President Jae Sperling sub­mitted a $100 million bid for the Twins earlier this week. 
Any deal would depend on the city and the state agree­ing to build a stadium for the Twins in St. Paul. City voters decide Nov. 2 whether to approve a 0.3 percentage point increase in the city sales tax to pay for one-third the cost of $325 million ball­park. 
As part of the stadium plan, Pohlad agreed with Mayor Norm Coleman last summer to find a buyer by Oct. 1. Coleman aide Mike Zipko said Thursday the Friday deadline could be extended a day or more if an agreement were imminent. 
Grilled Burgers, Brats, and Other Specialties Cold Beverages & Spirits 60" Screen TV's Fully Enclosed Tent 
ext to the N.D. Bookstore. 219-631-2000 
Combined ownership of more than one team, fre­quently including a broad­casting component, is grow­ing trend. Jointly owned teams can save money if lhey combine ticket sales. market­ing, corporate sponsorships and radio and television pro­duction. 
Neither Coleman nor the owners of the Minnesota franchises would comment on the negotiations. 
Pohlad has had at least two offers in rncnnt years, most recently one from Minneapolis lawyer Clark Griflith, who said he offered between $110 million and $120 million. Griffith is the son of Calvin Griffith, who sold the team to Pohlad in 1984. 
there's always Starcom. NORTH AMEPl(A's LEADING MEDIA srnv1cEs coMPANY 1Nv1TEs vou ro COME SEE WHAT AN EXCITING CAREER IN MEDIA AND ADVERTISING 15 ALL ABOUT. COME liEACH FOR fHE STARS AT STARCOM'S RECRUITING PRESENTATION. October 4, Rm100 Center for Continuing Edu~ation 6:30-8:3opm 
fl ND OUT MORE ABOUT l EO BURNETT'S MEDIA DIV15h)N ~T WWW SIARCOMWORLDWIDE.COM 
-
.. 
,· 
American Beauty (R) Digital [12:501 3:50 6:40 9:20 [l:301 4:20 7:10 10:10 
Thn~ Kin~ fR) Digital 11:1014:106:50 9:40 [ I :50/ HX/ 7:50 10:25 
Mystt>ry, Ala~ka IR) Digital [l:'.!O] 4:15 7:30 10:20 The Adventures of Elmo in Grouchland 
(G) Digiwl Il2:4(lJ 2:40 4:40 6:30 8:40 
Drive Me Crnzv /PG-13) Digital [12·30] 2:45 ~:20 7:40 10:00 
Jakoh the Liar  (PG-13)  DigiWI  
[12:45] 6:45  
Mumford  fR)  Digit.al  

( l :40j 4:45 7:55 l0:35 
Star Wars Episode I  {PG I  
[1 :001 4:00 7:00 9:50  
Tarran  (C)  
[2:001 4:20 6:40 8:50  

Friday, Ocroher l, 1999 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 25 


0MPUS 
MINISTRY 
Dear Alumni & Friends, 
The staff of Campus Ministry extends an invitation to come together and celebrate the Eucharist this weekend. 
-
Oklahoma Football Weekend October 2-3, 1999 
Saturday Vigil Masses 
Basilica 30 minutes after game Ste)?an Center 45 minutes after game 
Sunday Masses 
-
Basilica 8:00, 10:00 am & 11:45 am 
-
Sacred Heart 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 
9:30 & 11:00 am 
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, October I, 1999 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Candlestick's last game sends Giants down in flames 
Willie McCovey and Orlando Reds lose at least twice. Ozzie Guillen of a single in the equaling the Brewers record Associated Press Cepeda, attended. The game was played with second inning. Ordonez has for hits by a pitcher. "lt was great to be out here playoff intensity, with the fielded 387 chances during the today, sef'ing all those players 48,364 fans out of their seats streak. 
Phillies 2, Cubs 1
SAN FRANCISCO who gave me sleepless nights," with each key at-bat as they Kevin Millwood allowed twu 
Mike Lieberthal hit his 31st
Candlestick Park had the last said Tommy Lasorda, who hoped the Mets could continue runs and five hits in seven 
homer and Robert Person held
laugh. managed the Dodgers for 20 their magic from Wednesday innings for the Braves. The 
Sammy Sosa homerless as the
After 40 years of tormenting years and now is a team vice night. when they beat Greg right-hander has been the must 
Philadelphia Phillies beat the
players and fans with swirling pnisident. "I love this place, but Maddux and the Braves 9-2. consistent pitcher for the 
Chicago Cubs. 
winds, frigid temperatures and the new park is going to be The way the game ended, it Braves this season, out.perform­
Sosa was 0-for-3 with a walk.
blankets of fog. lhe 'Stick great." might be as close as the play­ing Cy Young winners Greg 
leaving him with 62 homers. He
closed its baseball career Raul Mondesi hit a three-run offs get to Shea Stadium. Maddux. Tum Glavine and John 
trails Mark McGwire by one
Thursday as the Los Angeles homer and added a bases­After New York tied the game Smoltz. Millwood is 6--0 with a 
homer going into a season-end­
Dodgers beat the San Francisco loaded walk for the Dodgers, at a in the eighth on Edgardo 1.29 ERA in his last 10 starts. 
ing, three-game series begin­
Giants 9-4 on a balmy, sunny who have won 9 of 12. Mark Alfonzo's 26th homer, the 
Pirates 3, Brewers 2 ning Friday in St. Louis. 
day. Grudzielanek had three hits Braves took the lead in the Sosa, has one
Kevin Young's solo homer in who only
"If we had this kind of weath­and drove in two runs. 11th. 
the sixth inning spoiled Hideo homer since Sept. 19, missed 
er here all the time. a lot more The Dodgers scored two in Shawon Dunston overran a 
Nomo's 0-strikeout perfor­his first grand slam of the sea­
fans would have shown up," the second on an RBI single by high fly to right by Jordan lead­
mance as the Pittsburgh Pirates son by a few feet in the third. 
-
Willie Mays said. "Jt was very Eric Young and a run-scoring ing off the inning, turning a 
beat the Milwaukee Brewers. With the bases loaded and two
cold here, very foggy. There's double by Grudzielanek. routine out into a triple. Rookie 
Noma has 161 strikeouts this outs, Sosa crushed Person's
nothing special about it, but we They added three in the Octavio Dote! (8-3), making his 
season, the most. by a first pitch to left-center, where
have some good memories fourth on Grudzielanek's RBI fifth career relief appearance, 
Milwaukee pitcher since Cal Wendell Magee made a leaping
here." single and run-scoring walks by then intentionally walked 
Eldred had 180 in l 993. In catch against the wall.
The game was attended by Mondesi and Devon White. Andruw Jones. 
what might have been his last The ball would nut have left
61,389, the largest regular-sea­Mondesi hit his 33rd homer in Guillen followed with a fly to 

start for the Brewers, Nomo the ballpark, but certainly
son crowd in Candlestick histo­the sixth. Adrian Beltre added shallow center and Jordan nar­
{12-8) struck out the side in the would have been a bases-clear­
ry. It brought the park's total an RBI single in the eighth. rowly beat Darryl Hamilton's 
first inning but allowed eight ing double. 
attendance in four decades to Marvin Benard led off the throw to break the tie. 
hits and three walks over seven Lieberthal continued his
54,031,242. The Giants went Giants' first with his 16th Terry Mulholland (10-8) got 
innings. breakthrough season with a
1,775-1,398 at Candlestick. homer. Benard and Bill Mueller four outs as the Braves won for 
Young's two-out homer, his 410-foot solo homer off the
"I'll leave my heart at added RBI singles and Jeff Kent the ninth time in 10 games and 
third in four games, broke a 2-facade of the upper deck in left, 
Candlestick," one sign in the got his 100th RBI on a bases­clinched home-field in the NL 
2 tie in the sixth inning. Mike giving the Phillies a 2-1 lead in
stands said. loaded walk. San Francisco has playoffs. After Mike Piazza 
Garcia (1-0) pitched one the fifth. 
The temperature was 82 lost 10 of 12. walked with two outs, Robin 
inning in relief of Pete Lieberthal was 3-for-4, rais­
degrees and there was a 5 mph Jeff Williams (2-0) allowed Ventura hit a game-ending fly­
Schourek for his first major ing his average to .301.
breeze when Juan Marichal four runs in five innings in his out. 
league win, and Scott Person (10-5) clinched his
threw out the ceremonial first third major league start. Shawn The frustration of the loss led 
Sauerbeck got the last out for first double-digit victory season
pitch before the game. The sky Estes (11-11) was the loser, giv­to a fight in the stands by the 
his second save. at any level since he was 12-10 
was cloudless when Mays ing up five runs on eight hits third-base dugout in the 11th 
Joe Oliver and Brant Brown at Class A High Desert of the
tossed out the ballpark's final and six walks in 3 2/3 innings. inning, drawing the Braves out 
also drove in runs for the California League in 1993 with
pitch after the game. of their dugout and the umpires 
Pirates (78-80), who must win the Florida Marlins' organiza­
"That was unusual to come to over to the stands to check out
Braves 4, Mets 3 two of three in their season­tion.
Candlestick Park and not see the melee.
One night after John Olerud ending series against the New Person allowed one run and
the wind blowing in every The lone bright spot for New
put the Mets back into the NL York Mets to post their best three hits in seven innings. He
direction," said Marichal, a York was that Rey Ordonez
wild-card race, the Atlanta record since 1992, when they walked four and s.tru~k out sq,, 1 1,;
native of the Dominican didn't make an error for his
Braves dealt New York's playoff went 96-66. Pittsburgh has won Steve Montgomery pitched
Republic. "It was a warm day. 96th straight game, breaking
chances a huge blow. three of its last four. two innings for his second save.
It felt like we were in the Cal Ripken's record for short­
Brian Jordan tripled and Nomo, who will be a free Brian McNichol (0-2}, making 
Dominican." stops.
scored on Ozzie Guillen's sacri­agent after the season, also hit his second major league start,
The Giants move to $319 mil­Ordonez made a leaping grab
fice fly in the 11th inning as the an RBI double in the third allowed two runs and six hits in 
lion Pacific Bell Park in down­of Williams' liner to lead off the
Atlanta Braves handed the inning. five innings. He walked one and
town San Francisco next sea­game and a diving stop to rob
Mets their eighth loss in nine He has 12 hits on the season, struck out seven. 
son, leaving Candlestick ­
games.
which opened on April 12, 
With three games remaining,
1960, in ceremonies led by Ty 
New York trails Houston and
Cobb and Vice President 
Cincinnati by two games in the
Richard Nixon -to the NFL's 
NL wild-card race. In order to
49ers. 
make the postseason for the
Fifty-nine former Giants play­
first time since 1988, the Mets 
ers and managers, including 
likely need to sweep Pittsburgh
Hall of Famers Mays, Marichal, 
and hope either the Astros or 
"•:""-f•·· ·~,,-;. ,: '~ It'., ·1 ···-p.-i'I'!'·'~,~?..\.'-• :""'f/;'/{4l.~ 
=---:; flijclh.i.'~ for:mw~t iJuHjb ;(ffeti
-..a•.•r:·...., .';•.I,, . . ._.•·J_• . -~:..\ft? 
...._._r. }j~ J~.\.;l)~J~1__0j~~i-·. ·i> r::-~ !:!Jll!::!f! !Ji lm.li:.111 d~~i.!:~I UJ!.J~i!; · 'llitii bbL.1 il!.!.!.1111,Jilflim:mt 'i.J'/ 
'JJJ.;.\f ~ j-J.,!\f_; ., 
-
.,.,,, 
Sunda), October 10, 1999. 7:00 pm 
Auditorium, The Ilesburgh Center for International Studies llnin.'r$;il) of Sotre Dame 
.Studt•nt~ FHEE 
Spon:i.orcd hf: 
Thr Jndia As.rnci11tiun of r--:utrt-lJanu: The A~bn Indian Clas!-sicai t\1usic S(1cid, Offkr of fnfernalionnl Studrnl -\fra!rs, l'ni,. ,,r '\otn•· D:11nc 

Friday, October 1, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 27 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Brosius' two homers help Yankees claim division title 
Associated Press 
BAJ,TIMORE 
It took a lot longer than last vear, and the final margin won't hi' mmrly as imprnssivc. Yet the New York Yankees arc once again the /\L East champions. 
Scott Brosius hit two homers and Burnin Williams reached 200 hits for t.he first time in his earner as the Yankees won their second straight division title by rlefoating the Ba.ltimorn Orioles 12-5 Thursday for a split of their day-night doublr•heador. 
The victory eliminated the Boston Hed S()X, who will cuter Urn playoffs as tlw wild-card 
Ll)illll. 
In thn first ganrn, Mike Mussina pitclrncl spvnn innings of livo-hit ball to lead the Orioles to a 5-0 victory. 
The Yankeos have spent much of' the year trying to come up with a sufficient encore their amazing 1998 season, when t.hcy went 114-48 and won the World Scri,~s. That team clinched tlrn AL East crown on Siipt. 9 and finished 22 games ahead of second-place Boston. 
This year. the Hed Sox made the Yankees work a lot harder. Bul !'or the third time in four years, New York will enter the postseason as divisi()n champi­ons. 
Williams and Derek Jeter are the first two Yankee teammates to have 200 hits in a season sincn Lnu Gehrig and Joe DiMaggio did it in 1937. Williams scored the go-ahead run in lh<l"fi'flidnningi•of the nightcap after hit No. 199 and drove in a run in the sixth with No. 200. 
Orlando Hernandez (17-9) allownd three runs on eight hits in SP.Wm innings. 
Nnw York wnnt up 4-3 in the fifth when Williams, Tinn Martimiz and Chili Davis hit suc­cessivn singles off Jim Corsi ( 1­3). 
Hun-scoring singles by Jeter and Davis made it (,-3 in the sixth. Paul O'Neill hit a three-run doublr, in the eighth and Brosius hit a three-run homer. 
Shane Spencer also homered for the Yankees, who arc a game behind Cleveland in the battle for best record in the AL. 
Jerry Hairston Jr. had four hits including a homer for the Orioles. Derrick May and Jesse Garcia also homered and B.J. Surhotr had throe hits. 
Spencer and Brosius hit solo homers in the fourth inning to put New York ahead 3-2, bnt May tied it in the Orioles' half by hitting Hernandez's first pitch over the right-field wall. 
New York got to celebrale its eighth AL East title after the nightcap, but Mussina made sure the Yankees wouldn't. pop any champagne corks at his expense. 
The right-hander struck out 10 -nine looking -and walked one. Mussina (18-7), who retired L-3 straight at one point, is 5-0 in sev0n starts since Aug. 6. 
The Orioles took advantage Hoger Clemens' control prob­lems to build a 4-0 lead after three innings. That was more than enough offense for Mussina, whose 18 wins is tied for second in the AL behind Boston's Pedro Martinez (23). 
Clemens (14-10) hit three bat­ters and four of his five walks turned into runs. He struck out nine and allowed only four hits in six innings. 
White Sox 5, Red Sox 2 
Rookie Carlos Lee hit a tiebr.eaking . .,homt);.run, and J.etr Liefer had a pair of RBI doubles to lead the Chicago White Sox over the Boston Red Sox. 
The Red Sox, who clinched a postseason berth Wednesday, became the AL wild-card team when New York clinched the AL East with a doubleheader split at Baltimore, and will open the playoffs next ,.Wednesday against Cleveland or Texas. 
Boston manager Jimy Williams said 23-game winner Pedro Martinez will start Game 
1 and Bret Saberhagen will 
pitch Game 2. 
Lee's 15th homer, a seventh­
inning drive off Brian Rose (6­
6), put Chkago ahead 3-2, and 
Magglio Ordonez hit a two-run 
homer off John Wasdin in the 
eighth. Ordonez, who went 3­
for-4, became the eighth White 
Sox player ever with 30 homers 
and 100 RBIs in one season. 
Sean Lowe (4-1) pitched two­
thirds of an inning as Chicago 
won for the fifth time in six 
games. Bob Howry pitched the 
ninth for his 27th save in 33 
chances, retiring pinch-hitter 
Jason Varitek on a game-ending 
flyout with t.he bases loaded. 
Boston starter Bryce Florie 
gave up one run and two hits in 
three innings, and Tim 
Wakefield pitched the next two 
innings. Rhea! Cormier, Rose 
and Wasdin followed. 
"I want to use their arms as 
much as we can but still give 
them rest," said Williams, ·who 
gave regulars Nomar 
Garciaparra..Jose Offerman and 
Troy O'Leary Thursday off. 
Gardaparra, who has a 
bruised right hand, leads the AL 
with a .357 average. Which is 
more important, the title or 
Garciaparra's hand? 
"The second thing is most 
important -his health," 
Williams said. "I don't even look 
at [his average]." 
Liefer hit RBI doubles in the second and and fourth, but Darren Lewis hit a two-run sin­gle in the sixth off Mike Sirotka, who allowed seven hits and three walks in,six innings. · 'sfr'o"tka was trying to win his 
fourth consecutive decisions. 
After Boston loaded the bases 
with one out in the seventh, 
Lowe got Lou Merloni to hit into 
a double play. 
Indians 9, Blue Jays 2 
Manny Ramirez hit a three­
run homer to increase his RBIs 
total to a Cleveland-record 164, 
and the Indians routed the 
Toronto Blue Jays. 
At 97-62, the Indians main­

taincd the best record in the American League going into the final weekend of the season. 
Ramirez's 43rd horner, a 441­foot drive to left ofT John Bale in the sixth inning, broke the pre­vious Indians record of 162 RBIs, set by Hal Trosky in 1936. 
Ramirez received three stand­ing ovations from Cleveland's 370th consecutive sellout crowd: one when he reached the dugout, another to summon him back out for a second curtain call, and a third when he took his position in right field in the seventh. 
The first major leaguer to reach 160 RBIs since Boston's Jimmie Foxx had 175 in 1938, Ramirez tied Babe Ruth's 19.27 total for the 12th-most in one season. 
Richie Sexson hit a bases­loaded triple in the fifth inning off Paul Spoljaric (2-2) after Ramirez was intentionally walked, helping Bartolo Colon (18-5) beat Toronto for the sec­ond time in six days. 
With his second triple of the game and seventh this season, Sexson gave Cleveland a 5-0 lead. Wil Cordero followed with an RBI single. 
Colon (18-5) won for the eighth time in nine decisions, allowing six hits in seven shutout innings. 
Roberto Alomar hit an RBI groundout in the first and Cordero homered in the fourth for a 2-0 lead. 
Toronto got its runs when Ricardo Rincon walked Pat Borders and Willis. Otanez with the bases loaded in the eighth. 
Rangers 7, Mariners 0 
John Burkett combined with three relievers on a four-hitter as the Texas Rangers beat the Seattle Mariners and set a team record with their 95th victory. 
Texas (95-64) topped the pre­vious record, set in 1977, when the Rangers were 94-68. 
The AL Central champions, who have won six of seven, also closed in their bid for home-
Internet banking Checking account O\Jerdraft protection ATM (Debit card 
Questions? Call us at 258-3150, or e-mail us at BankOnCampus@lstsource.com. 
Full service, on-line banking designed especially for college students! 
Whether you're on a MAC or a PC, our easy-to­use interface makes banking on the Internet a snap. Visit us online at www.bankoncampus.com to find out how you can benefit from this innovative account 
•source. 
Member FDIC
liaiBank 
field advantage in the playoffs. They began the day two games behind Cleveland and 1 1/2 games behind the New York Yankees, who lost the opener of a day-night doubleheader at Baltimore. 
Burkett (9-8) improved to 5-1 in his last seven starts, allowing three hits in six innings. Tim Crabtree, Jeff Zimmerman and Mike Vena.fro combined on one­hit relief, completing the Rangers' ninth shutout of the season. 
Tom Goodwin had three hits and two RBIs, Lee Stevens and Ivan Rodriguez each drove in two runs, and .Juan Gonzalez hit his 39th homer. 
Seattle's Ken Griffey Jr. remained two homers short of becoming the youngest player to hit 400 home runs in major league history. lie has not homered since Sept. 22. 
Brett Hinchliffe (0-4), making his first start since May 10 and the fourth of his career, gave up four runs, four hits and six walks in five-plus innings. 
Stevens hit his 24th homer in the second and Gonzalez home­red in the third. Goodwin's RBI single and Rodriguez's two-run single made it 5-0 in the sixth. Stevens added a run-scoring double in the seventh and Goodwin singled in a run. 
Tigers 6, Twins 5 
Gabe Kapler, Dean Palmer and Luis Polonia homered as the Detroit Tigers beat the Minnesota Twins for their sixth straight victory. 
Kapler's solo homer with two outs in the eighth tied it for Detroit, which hadn't won six straight in over three years. Deivi Cruz drove in the go­ahead run with a single. 
Pinch-hitter Midre Cummings hit a three-run homer· for Minnesota, which has lost six in a row. The Twins lost 13 of their last 15 home games and fin­ished with the worst home record in team history at 31-50. 
Francisco Cordero (2-2) pitched a scoreless seventh and Todd Jones got three outs for his 29th save in 34 opportuni­ties. 
Trailing 5-4 in the eighth, Detroit rallied for two runs off Bob Wells (8-3). Kapler, who was 3-for-4, hit his 18th homer and Frank Catalanotto followed with a double to left that Chad Allen lost in the lights. Cruz then singled up the middle to make it 6-5. 
. 

$4.00 Studonts/Ch1ldren/Seniors $6.50 Adul! 
Stereo Surround Sound in all Theatres 
American Pie R 12:55 3:10 5:25 7:40 10:05 Bowfinger PG-13 12:55 3:15 5:35 7:55 10:10 
Double Jeopardy R 1:05 4:10 7:15 9:45 2:10 5:00 8:00 10:30 
Drive Me Crazy PG13 
1:00 3:15 5:35 7:50 10:00 
Elmo In Grouchland G 
1 :30 3:30 5:30 7:30 9:30 
For Love of the Game PG13 12:50 3:50 7:00 9:55 ss 1 :35 4:35 7:40 ss 
Jakob the Liar PG-13 1:40 4:20 7:00 9:50 
Mystery Alaska R 
1:45 4:30 7:20 10:20 
Stigmata R 
1:10 3:35 7:05 9:35 •• 2:05 4:45 7:45 10:15 •• 
Stir of Echoe. R 
12:45 3:00 5:15 7:35 10:10 
The 13th Warrior R 
12:50 3:05 5:30 7:50 10:15 
TCO!.tS T!J.m o~m· FCJ~ r:v 1C:!M~, N~n SlUS 
•tN~ (,)} !(CEl,lail I ~0 'Al'il · NC l.1!11.1,111 
.... 

page 28 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, October 1, 1999 
GOLF 
Daly explains life of drinking 
Associated Press 
PlNE '.\10UNTJ\IN, Ga. 
The eve of the Buick Challenge was a typical night for John Daly ever since he decided once again that happi­ness on the golf courso depends largely on whether he can get a drink. 
"I had four Miller Lites and a big chimichanga," Daly said. 
In his lifelong battle against alcoholism, this night was a draw. 
"I don't want to quit drink­ing," he said. "I just don't wani to get drunk." 
Daly was all smiles Thursday at Callaway Gardens. Grossly overweight in olive-colored pants that bagged around his ankles, he went through at least one cigarette per hole, signed autographs during his round of Aven-par 72 and then headed out to the driving range. 
He says he is free again, no longer bound by his contract with his main sponsor. Callaway Golf, that requirnd him to stay off the bottle and out of casinos. He says he wants to play like tho slugger who won the PGA Championship and British Open. 
What Daly cannot say is whether another night awaits like the one in Jacksonville Beach. fla .. two years ago. when he poured down shots and ripped up his hotel room in a drunken rage. 
"You never know with me," 
"It's not a good feeling when you can barely walk, or laying by a commode." 
John Daly pro golfer 
Daly said bluntly. 
In life, much like with his golf, there are no guarantees with Daly. 
"I don't know what to think," said Jay Haas, one of several PGA Tour peers confused by Daly's return to drinking. "I suppose past history shows he shouldn't be doing what he's doing. Whether he can handle it this time remains to be seen." 
Daly's latest attempt to stay sober ended after a 26-month run that cost him his Callaway contract when he refused to go back to a rehab center for the third time. 
From a business standpoint, Daly said he regrets parting ways with 80-year-old founder Ely Callaway, who is a distant relative to the Callaway clan that developed the plush resort where the Buick Challenge is being played this week. 
Daly turned his back on about $3 million, but he said mavbe that's for the best. 
"i think Mr. C. made it too easy for me," he said. "The money was too good and I didn't practice hard enough. It's going to make me hungry. that money not coming in like it was. We've got great purses. 
There's a ton of money out there, and it's time for me to earn my money again." 
Besides, Daly said he finally reached the conclusion that drinking is part of his life. "It's in my blood," is the chiUing phrase he told Golf World mag­azine. 
"It was either golf and drink­ing, or no golf and no drink­ing," he said. "I made a deci­sion to keep playing golf. This is what I do. This is my talent." 
And the drinking. Daly told himself, is part of the package. 
"I could give up the game and probably stay sober and do speeches and stuff," he said. "It would be a hell of a lot easier because I'd be out of the spot­light and out of the game. But I can't do both. There ain't no way." 
There is not much to suggest Daly, who started drinking when he was 8, can control his drinking this time around. 
He won the British Open sober in 1995, started "social drinking" a year later and then lost control that night in Jacksonville Beach during The Players Championship, a binge that led to divorce. 
"I think sometimes, you can control alcohol," Daly said. "And for everybody who has ever been there and gotten really drunk, there are certain times in their lives that they don't think alcohol does take over. It's not a good feeling when you can barely walk. or laying by a commode." 
Daly admits that pressure to stay sober helped drive him. 
BOXING 
Legislators throw bl<)WS at boxing 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The biggest name in boxing promotion wasn't on Capitol Hill but still was a significant factor Wednesday as a House committee voted to crack down on the fight business. 
Rep. Bobby Rush, D-IIL, sug­gested the legislation was intended to target Don King, a larger-than-life personality who for three decades who has pro­moted fights for everyone from Muhammad Ali to Mike Tyson. 
Another congressman said he wanted to toughen the legisla­tion by having it ban felons from involvemimt in boxing. but opted not to, because of King. 
Hep. Ralph Hall, D-Texas, sairl he tried to move a no­felons amendment to an earlier boxing bill but it became too controversial because people called it the "King amend­ment."' 
Hall said that wasn't the intent, even though "I have mixed feelings about Mr. King." 
Hush quickly disagreed. "I think that this bill is primarily aimed at one particular pro­moter," Rush said. "l think we're setting a precedent that we will come back to regret." 
A King spokesman did not immediately return a call seek­ing comment about the legisla­tion. 
Before becoming a major force in boxing, King was involved in two killings. 
In 1954, King killed a man who was robbing a numbers house he operated in Cleveland, and it was ruled justifiable homicide. 
In 1967, he was convicted of second-degree murder for stomping to death a rival num­bers runner. ThA charge later was reduced to manslaughter. He served nearly four years in prison and was pardoned in 1983 by then-Ohio Gov. James J\. Rhodes. 
King also has been the target of numerous lawsuits from box­ers. 
The legislation, which now can be positioned for a vote in the full House, is intended to protect young fighters from exploitation by eliminating so­called coercive contracts, in which a boxer is requirnd to sign away rights for more than 12 months or grant rights to another promoter as a condi­tion of getting to fight a particu­lar bout. 
It also includes conflict of interest rules and would requiro promoters, judges, ref­erees and sanctioning bodies to fill out financial disclosure forms. 
In response to the outcry over the Evander Holyfield-Lennox Lewis heavyweight title fight March 13, the measure would require all boxing referees and judges to be certified and approved by state boxing com­missions. King was in New York with both fighters Wednesday to help hype the rematch. 
.,, 
Inspired by the magnificent setti·ng, a contemporary country estate on 72 rolling acres 
LaPorte County, Indiana -30 minutes from from Notre Dame 
Beautiful country 
Contemporary design graces this 6200 square foot residence on 72 rolling 
acres in the scenic Moraine district of Northwest Indiana. Built to be in har­
mony with it surroundings, this inviting home just ninety minutes from 
Chicago is surrounded by a spring-fed pond, a running stream and acres of 
open, grassy fields, ravines and horse/walking trails in the breathtaking hard­
wood forests. Glass walls throughout the home create a continuous 360-degree 
p~norama of this magnificent setting. 
The custom-built residence with beautiful cherry, hickory and oak cabinetry, has a welcoming great room with a cathedral ceiling and a fireplace, a large country kitchen with two expansive outdoor decks, a private study and a formal dining room. There are five bedrooms, five full baths, two powder rooms and a large family room with a wall of glass and access to the grounds. 
A spacious, private guest quarters and an oversized three car garage add to this home' many features. In addition, there is an equipment barn and a three bedroom guest or caretaker home. The equestrian facilities include a 7-stall horse barn with heated tack room. 
Baird & Warner 
Offered at $2,200,000
Residential Real Estate Since 1855 
Exclusive Affiliate of Christie,s Great Estates 
Linda A. $haughnessy 312/988-9799 -telephone ishaugh107@aol.com -email 

-------------~--7 
rriday, October 1, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 29 ~ 
~ 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 

Beurlein to lead Otters against Juggernauts 
By RACHEL BIBER 
Spotts W rircr 
"If' it ain't broke, dnn't fix it," is llw rnsounding theme !'or tho Sorin Otters as they head into tlrnir matchup this Sunday against thn 1-1 Knotl Hall Juggf\rnaughts. 
The Ottnrs will again dnpcnd 011 tlwir solid passing garno, !Pd by quartnrback 1.ukc Hcu1:rlcin, to lock up a win a!-(ai11sl lfw Jugg1H·naughls. 
''W1i'll stkk lo what we've h«'Pll doing," Sorin captain 
Fred Faber said. 
This week's showing at prac­tice has bcnn improvement from the previous week for the Otters, when attendance was poor. 
"Practice has been surpr.is­ingly good," Faber said. "We 'vn had a good showing." 
If thn Otl.ers previous win came without a strong weP.k of practice, then the Juggcrnaughts will have many obstacles to overcomn this Sunday. 
Knott llall. which captured its first win against Zahm last week, is hoping to put a dent in the Sorin's perfect record. A win would require Knott Hall to repeat its sound defensive performance from last week when it shuts out Zahm. Knott captain Mario Suarez is confi­dent that his team will get the job done. 
"We realize we have a lot of potential," Suarez said. "It's just a matter of following through." 
The passing game of Knott Hall has a lot to live up to when it matches up against Sorin this Sunday, but Suarez 



6t\ l [ H 
Distinctive Catering lor<an Your Office, Home or One ol Our Unlqua,Q.-r1q11atRooms. 
Call today and have one ol our Event Coordinators help you plan your next event. 
235 • 9985 

is intent on keeping the same offensive plan. The focus for the Juggernaughts will be "to maintain the passing game," according to Suarez. 
Knott Hall watched f'rom the sidelines last week, viewing the strengths of Sorin. The Otters, however, are confident in their game plan. 
"It's time to focus on what we do well," Faber said. "And just go with it." 
St. Ed's vs. Siegfried 
The men of St. Ed's head into this weekend's game against the Ramblers of Siegfried seeking to capture victory for the first time in years. 
Winning has eluded St. Ed's in the past, but after scoring its first touchdown this season in last week's game it has gained momentum. 
"Our focus is winning," SL Ed· s captain Nick Sciola said, "We want to play intense." 
The 1-0-1 Ram blcrs will try to erase the memory of last week's penal­
ty-filled game "Practice has been a lot improving their by turning on play, not worry­
offun. It kind of 
the offensive ing about the
lightened up the mood. 
side of their threat the game. Hopefully it will carry Green Wave "We were may pose.
over into the game. " 
disappointed "Wr. haven't with coming really looked at away with a Mike Garko them," Garko tie last week­Zahm captain said. "We are 
e n d , 
Rambler's coach Jamie Bordas said. "Penalties just killed us." 
Siegfried has exhibited solid defense in their first two games by posting two-shut outs.· 
"We are happy with our defense," Bordas said. "We've had two games and two shut outs." 
In order to take control of Sunday's game, the Ramblers know thev have to contribute on offense. 
"Our focus is to get better on offense and eliminate mis­takes," Bordas said. 
When SL Ed's and Siegfried facr. off on Sunday, both are intent on showing its offensive capabilities, which have been si!encnd so l'ar this season. If practicn makes perfect, how-

RTME 
TREDA 

more concr.rned about our­selves." 
This week's practice has lightened the mood for the Zahm squad, after two dis­hcai-tr.ning losses. 
"Prarticn has h,wn a lot of' fun," Garko said. "It kind of lightened up tlw mood. Hopefully it will carry ovm into the game." 
Fisher looks to tlH\ ltHtd of quartnrbark Zack AIIPn to pro­vide somP o!Tcnsivn spark in Sunday's ganH\. Tim ddnns<' needs no improvnnwnt af"tnr proving th(dr potfmtial in shut­ting out both of tlwir oppo­nents this season. 
Both team's wislw~ can ho summed in thn statement madn by Zahm captain Miko Garko: "Our focus is to win orw and scorn some points." 
ever, then it seems as though Siegfried will have the advan­tage this weekend, 
"We haven't had the greatest attendance at practice." St. Fd's captain Sciola said, 
The attitude at the Hambler's camp has been more focused. 
"This week has been better in practice," Bordas, Siegfried's coach. said. "We've realized we can't just be physi­cally tough, but we also have to be mentally tough." 
Zahm vs. Fisher 
The match-up between Zahm and Fisher features two toams who each failed tu light up the offensive board last Sunday, but each hopes to reverse its fortu1rns at tlrn other's expense. 
The 0-2 Zahmbies look to pick up their first win of the season. whilfl the Gre1in Wavr. of FL'lher is intent. on improv­ing their l -0-1 record, 
Zahm captain Mik11 Garko knows his team his hungry for a win. They have kept their 
focus on 
j 
. . 
... 


INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Farley falls to 1-3 after loss to Ducks 
week." By STEVE KEPPEL Howard improved to 3-0 Sports Writer 
and takes on a winless Badin on Sunday. If there is any iuterhall football team that could be 
BP 13, McGllnn 6 
compared to the Fighting 
The first match-up of the
Irish it would have to be 
night featured undefeated
Farley llall. · 
Breen-Phillips against a win­
After a one-point loss to 
less and scoreless McGlinn. 
Howard on Wednesday their 
It looked like McGlinn
record, like the foothall 
m1ght. Ghange Hs losing ways
team's, stands at a disap­
as it put up six quick points
pointing 1-3. In the last two 
after a Breen-Phillips
games they lost hy a com­
turnover. Breen-Phillips,
bined three points. · 
however, repsonded by scor•
"It is tough because our 
ing on its very next posses­
offense is playing well and 
sion. 
our record does not reflect 
"That touchdown was our 
our team's ability," Farley 
key to victory." Breen­
captain Jenn Ross said. 
Phillips captain Katie Leicht
In the first half against 
said.
Howard, it was all Farley. 
Running back Karen
Wide receiver Lindsey 
Swanson added another
Kosinski scored the first 
touchdown right before the
points of the night on a short 
end of the half, putting
pass that was set up by a 25· 
Breen-Phillips up 13-6.
yard catch and run by center 
The second half was domi­
Erica Freeburg. 
nated by Breen-Phillips'
The Howard offense was 
defense, led by the rushes of
shut down in the first half by 
lineman Tricia Keppel.
a tough Farley defense. The 
"We strugghid on defense
Ducks went into halftime 
in the first half but pulled it
down 6-0. 
together in the second half,"
"We knew it was our game 
Leicht said. McGlinn's 
to win," said Howard's Julie 
offense was plagued by sacks 
Wernick, who was a kev 
and dropped passes and
player in the second half. · 
failed once again to add a
"We knew we were the bet­
victory to their string r:if loss­
ter team we just had to go 
es and ties. 
out and play our game," coach Nate Medland said. After the intermission the Cavanaugh 20, Badin 0 
Cavanaugh proved it is a
Duck's defense came out 
force to be reckoned with
fired up. With only a few minutes gone by, Emily Borg last night as Cavanaugh con­
vincingly defeated a strug­
picked off an errant Farley pass and returned it to the 5-gling Badin team. yard line. On fourth-and-goal The "chaos defense" made 
Howard quarterback Jill its presence known early by Veselik scrambled around picking of a first quarter and found an open Wernick pass and returning it for a 
in the back of the endzone. 
score. Wernick added the all impor· The offense took its turn tant extra point giving them and scored on a 30-yard 
the one point lead that bomb the very next series. turned out to seal the win. To cap it off, Cavanaugh The rest of the game was intercepted and returned 
controlled by Howard's another pass to score a 20-0 defense lead by Dawn win. Kennedy who had three sec­Badin's defense again ond-half sacks. played tough, but the offense Coach Medland said, "It is could not seem to muster any important to get better each points. 
',fill 
·;,;;ipa~ia bistro. open Thurs. to $at~7ropiir;; ···•. _·•· tgelttnicrohrew selection in Miefilana. .·• "' ''~ · 
> '> .... "''>~love to cater your next eve,itftaif)(;> 
;;?. «aterstoo!) ~,* ...· 
\~\ _:;;(, ;~-~..;-,'..:.' ,,_. -.• _ --· ;· ···t"t ~=~. ·'' 
!;:,~~~ual Elegance. featuring Jenny Cruz:'.op,;<;
;~<. p,!cllJO; ;{-····
..,. 
:{,;'1.:.oc in the Town & Country Sho · ;k?..; ~ent~r. ~ 5--10 minute drive from c
:,;!{i~el! , . ickory and McKinlev) ' 
;;~;.ij:bi~ ~ctl.11 at 259-WILD!!! 
a strong second half team -Villanova is led by sophomore 
outscoring opponents 13-3 -goalkeeper Janel Schilleg who
Soccer 
but have had trouble scoring in has recorded four shut-out,; this continued from page 36 the first. year and has been named Big 
The Sunday matchup between East goalkeeper of the week GeorgP.town has been a very Notre Dame and Villanova fea• three times in 1999. In last average team. tures the top two teams in the year's meeting with Villanova. 
The H()yas stand at 6-4 and 0-Big East Mid-Atlantic division. Notre Dame won 5-0 but Schilleg 1 in the Big East after their first Both the Wildcats and the Irish made 25 saves -more than 10 games. The Boyas have been are 2-0 in division play. other keeper in the country. 
QUALITYService• StudentDiscounts • Gift Certi ·cates • Guaranteed Satisfaction/ 
CERTIFIED Instructors t DESIGNER Tanning with ADVANCED TANNING Systems SUPER Size Beds & Booths t CLEAN & SANITAl~Y! t CREDIT CARDS Accepted t OPEN 7Days 


CJmbracin!J I.he season, 
while indulging in the festivity of the harvest. 91~'s introduces dining in the true spirit of Notre Dame. ~'\y.\ , Presenting menus that compliment the fall season \r-:Vith the finest foods it has to offer. Be our guest ; "')1_··.}l Sorin's and celebrate a change in dining. 
~-. ' ,, 
~isit us within The Morris Inn. 
,'.( ( ~: 
We're Giving AwayAll the Answers. 

Have questions about a caireer in financial services? Find out how you can grow with ABN AMRO and LaSalle Bank. 
Getting answers to your career questions shouldn't be a struggle, So, we're giving away the answers to todav's most challenging career questions: ls the financial services industry right for yuu? How did ;e get to he the 6th largest bank in the world and the leading middle market bank in the midwest? What career tracks do we offer? You bring the questions. We'll supply the answers. 
Informational Presentation 
October 5, 1999, 6:00 p.m. Center for Continuing Education -Room 100 
Interviews -November 9, 1999 & February 18, 2000 

LaSalle 
THE BANK THAT WORKS· 
www.abnamrocareer.com 
Friday, Occober'l, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 31 
..., 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Keenan looks to extend streak against O'Neill 
seven times. A secondary lee! turn the ball over. 
By KEVIN BERCHOU 
by player/coach Dong Min has "We need to cut down on the Sporn Writer 
come up with a multitude of mental errors. Thus far, we hig plays, backing up the have turned the hall way too 
Tlw K(1cnan Knights come extraordinary e!Torls ol' the many times," the Keenan cap­into this Sunday's game with defonsive front. Min returned tain said. tlw O'Neill Angry Mob looking an interception for a score to The O'Neill Angry Mob to extend their winning streak, emphatically end the Stanford enters the contest still looking now spanning thrnn seasons, ganrn. for its first win, having fallen to 17 ganrns. "We'll go with what's been to Keough last week. 
It appears as though Keenan working on dol'ens11," captain It's a match-up that on is again 111m of thn il'agiw's Ilerb Giorgio said of' his team's paper appears to favor Keenan strongest l«rnms, as it has prnparation for Sunday's heavily, but tho Knights know knocknd off its first two oppo­game. "Obviously the defense they cannot afford to take the rwnts by a combined score of is the strongth of our team. Angry Mob lightly. . 34-0. They've played very well." "We definitely need to be 
Though thn Knights boast a Keenan will look to its cautious of a letdown," Giorgio w (d I -r o u n de d sq u a d , thoir improving offense to put more said. str«~ngth clearly lies in th~iir points on the board. Freshman dominant defense. Led by quarterback Billy Ellsworth 
Alumni vs. Morissey
s<mior defensive lineman Doug has been impressive in his The Alumni Dawgs enter
Kraft Urn Keenan dcfensn has first two starts. throwing (or a Sunday's action still riding an
bnnn nrnrciless, wreaking touchdown against both 
emotional high after knocking
havoc in its first two outings. Morissey and Stanford. 
off south-quad neighbor theKraft has led the charge. Tailback Nick Costanzo has 
Dillon Big Red in week one.
applying consistent pressure f'uel(ld the running game, 
Alumni will look to move to 
on opposing passers. Keenan adding an additional touch­
·2-0 with a victory over
has hP1•11 most succPssful in down in both of his team's two 
Morissey, while the men of the
f'orring turnovors. having previous games. 
Manor enter play still looking
prnssurcd archrival Stanford Giorgio has been concerned 
lo gel in the win column.
into coughing up the ball with his offense's tendency to 
The Dawgs will go with a 4-4 scheme on a defense that is 
···-=-========-=""""""'"""""""-==-=~ 
Happy Birthday Jonathan Griffin!! 
anchored by outside line· backer and captain Pat Paquette. Alumni is particular­ly strong up the middle with senior defensivH Ryan Jocham and junior middle linebacker Mitch Karan lo.oking to snuff out the Morisscy rushing attack. 
On the offensive sic!e of the ball, Alumni will borrow a page from Michigan coach Lloyd Carr's play book and 
rotate two quarterbacks. Sophomores Matt Anton Giovanni and Nick Altos will continue to split time under center. 
Morissey, having dropped its first two decisions will look to right the ship and score a vie­
• ,tj,' 
--. . i 
.~;,,...·~ .... -· ~-:. -~)·~~~­
Visit Our Cappuccino Bar 
Seattle's Best Coffee 
Jffllfrrl~m  -­ !11(#699  
:: 1 :  ~MMkrrs 12 oz. Cappuccino Or Latte  ;. ...  


I Limit Two (',oupon Valid At: 2081 South Bend Ave. Expires: 10-7-99
L----~---------------------­

JEFF HSU/The Observer A Morissey running back tries to push past a Dillon defender in a recent game. Morissey takes on Alumni Sunday. 
-
, ­
tory. Manor is solid on defense The Griffins' offense will but will be looking to improve continue to feature a strong offensively. running game, thanks to a 
"We'll be looking to put dominant backfield made up of more points on the board," tailbacks Chris lleid and Curt Morissey captain Matt Hoberts, as well as fullback Wahlberg said. "Our offense J.C. Perez. needs to improve." The Big Heel were successful 
in bouncing back from a wnck one loss to their rival the
Dillon vs. Stanford 
Alumni Dawgs, notching a big
Both Dillon and Stanford 
win over the Morissny Manorenter this Sunday's tilt sport­
this past Sunday. Dillon will
ing identical 1-1 recorrls. 
again be led by sophomore
The Griffins of Stanford will 
quarterback Colin Conway 011
look to rebound from last 
offense, while senior defo11sivn
week's disappointing loss to back Hon Sutsko will com­
the Keenan Knights with a big mand the defensive unit.
victory over the Big Red. 
This ga11H1 is a pivotal onn
Stanford's strong defensive 
for both team, with the winnerline consists of .John Dickas, 
being on t~w f'ast track to thn
Dave Hunt and Shamus Rohn postseason. and the loser Inn-all of whom are solid 
with a difficult road t.o tlrn
against both the run and the 
playoffs.
pass. 
International Film Festival 
°'
Once a week the Office of International Student Affairs will showcase some of the most popular interna­tional films ever made. 
Visit the OISA's Website www.nd.edu/,.,oisa/ for more movie update. 
• The films for October are: • 
! Monday, Oct. 4 7:00pm Gandi (UK/India) : • Wednesday, Oct. 13 8:00 pm To Live (China) • 
• Wednesday, Oct. 27 8:00 pm The Gods Must Be Crazy.• (South Africa) •
• 
... 
All movies will be shown in the Montgomery Theatre, Lafortune Student Center. 
FREE ADMISSION! 
il 
FREE DRINK AND SNACKS! 
-------. __"" ___ 
Friday, October 1, 1999 
page 32 The Observer . SPORTS 
Invite 
continued from page 36 
jusl keep moving up as the race goes on." 
The Noire Dame men have won 13 team championships in the history of the Notre Dame Invitational. They finished sec­ond last season, and have five of their top seven runners back from 1998. The racing crew for the Irish today is experienced ­without a freshman among the bunch. 
Striowski won the Valparaiso Invitational in the team's first competition this year. Maxwell and Watson are also top com­petitors for lhe Irish. 
Head women's coach Tim Connelly will also be sending out his top seven athletes for the first time this year. The Irish did not lose a single senior lo gradua­tion. and are a strong contender
-to qualify tor the NCM champi­onships at the end of the year. Seniors JoAnna Deeter, Alison Klemrner, Erin Luby and Patty Rice will be running today, along with freshman Jennifer Handley and juniors Erin Olson and Bridget O'Brien. 
"They've got a legitimate shot at winning it," Piane said. 
The main teams standing in the way of a Notre Dame title are Oregon, Missouri and Cornell. 
Deeter is an All-American in cross country and track who won an individual title in this meet her freshman and junior years. She has already qualified for the 
U.S. Olympic Trials in track and field next summer. She also won the National Catholic Invitational two weeks ago. 
Klemmer was the runnf'r-up in Notre Dame's last meet. Rice did not compete in the first two meets of the season because she was recovering from an injury. 
"There are teams coming in that we're really competitive with. so it'll be a good chance to see where we are," Handley said. Handley finished third both for 
''We're excited because we Notre Dame and overall in the haven't really run against much National Catholk Invitational top competition yet." Sept. 17. Notre Dame won that meet on the women's side and the men's side, and this is the first time back in action for the team since then. 
,·. 
;:_~ 
41,:,.~..:} 
-~-----,<~•:··-"·
·'J-Ji.~~;J;:a"1'•i•'·: 
~ .U'·l~1.U' -~ 
1 9 9 9 
M¢UftN4 
~ .; 

..•. 
rt ' 
MOHDAY, OCTOBER 4 
4!00 p.M. 
LAW SCHOOL COURT ROOM 
First Monday is held annually to coincide with the opening of the U.S. Supreme Court term. First Monday 1999 will highlight ways to meet the goal of the 1949 Housing Act in which Congress declared that every American should have a "decent home and suitable living environment." This year's program will feature: 
a 25 minute film 
_a panel discussion including Drew Buscareno (Center for the Homeless), Ray Williams, Professor Jennifer Warlick (Economics). Professor Benjamin Giamo (American Studies), Eileen Doran (Legal Aid Clinic), Kathleen Maas Weigert (Center for Social Concerns}, Charlotte Sobel (South Bend Heritage Foundation) 
Co-sponsored by 

SOCIAL 
NtHRE O.\i\ll' L\\\' Sc HOOi 
CONCERNS 
:--.1 0J"J.t.l; (),\Ml·, l~UIAN·\ 

26324 U.S. 12 East, P.O. Box 246 Store Hours: Edwardsburg, Michigan 49112 Monday to Thursday 9:00 -9:00 (616) 663-3745 Friday and Saturday 9:00 -10:00 FAX: (616) 663-8178 Sunday 10:00 -7:00 Web: www.lunkersonline.com LUNKER'S AND ANGLER'S INN Enjoy the outdoors while shopping inside ... One of the largest outdoor stores in the Midwest featuring: ''LIVE ALLIGATORS" "LIVE SHARKS" RIVER WINDING THRU STORE 8000 LB LARGE MOUTH BASS GEESE SUSPENDED FROM A BEAUTIFUL SKY 22 AQUARIUMS FEATURING THE FAMOUS 6000 GALLON LUNKQUARIUM One of the best restaurants in Michiana -Angler's Inn Camping, fishing, hunting, sporting goods Lunker's -ND's favorite founded by a 1977 Notre Clothing includes: Filson, Woolrich, Columbia, 1 OX Dame Grad -Fran McCollester ONLY 15 MINUTES FROM CAMPUS STRAIGHT UP STRD 23 INTO MICHIGAN  


... 
,,.0. u 
Friday, October 1, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 33 
VOLLEYBALL 
Mountaineers to visit Joyce Center 

By MATT OLIVA 
Sports Writer 
Tlw (,-] Notrn l)amn volley­ball tnam lw.gins its qw~st !'or a l'if'lf1 straight Big East title tonight against West Virginia at 8 p.m. in tlw .Joyce Ccntnr. Notni Damn tlwn takes on l'ittsburg!J on Sunday at 2 p.m. 
Tlw Mounlainnors, one of two tllarns in tlrn Big East to d1il'nal Urn Irish last yfiar, lwad into tlw malrh against the Irish with a 7-'J n•cord. WAst Virginia is led by sm1ior middle blocker Brnoke lludson and junior Nikki llardy. lluclson l1\1Hls tlrn Warn in kills per game with a 3.22 average, while Ilardy is av1waging 2.45 kills and 2.<J8 digs per game. 
"Wn strnggled last year against Wost Virginia," Irish !wad t:oat:h DPbbin Brown said. "Tlwy lwal us with aggressiv11 imrving and took us out of' our ganrn. This week we havn hnllll working-on our offonsn and on goLting side­outs. W<' lrnvn also concentrat­Pd 011 our blocking." 
l'ittsbu rgh is off to a good st.art. with a Ci-4 overall record a11d opens up their Big East s(\ason against Syracu.se on 1:riday lH\l'orn corning tt1 race tlw Irish. The two teams f'acml nad1 otlwr twice last vnar with tlw Irish taking both 0 111atches. including a liiur-ganw victory in tlw first round ol' tho Big East tournarmmt. 
'I'll<' kny mnmlwrs of' the Panthers' squad are seniors Jenna Birkel and Melissa Alpers, who both are averag­ing over three kills a game. The Panthers will need qualiLy p<\rforrnances from both Birkel and Alpers if they are going to 1md Notre Dame's 11-game winning streak against. Pittsburgh. The last Panther win came back in 1990. 
"Pittsburgh has a very athlet­ic team and are well-rounded," Brown said. "Thny return four starters and have some really tough senfors. Tlrny playAcl a close match against us last year and we are expecting them to come in hungry." 
The Irish will count on senior middle blocker Mary Leffers, Kristy Kreher and Denise 13oylan to continue playing strong. All three are among the leaders in Big East statistics, with Lelfors leading the confcr­Pnce in two categori<ls. She has the highest season hitting per­centagn at .332 and blocks per gamr average with 1.86. 
The Irish are keeping to their team philosophy and concen­trating on the game at hand. Hight now their focus is entire­ly on Friday's match. 
"Conference is very impor­tant to us. but wn am looking at tlrn garnns one at a time." Brown said. "We hav1~ won the past four ynars and are looking to continue doing that. Wf': know we havn to play well to do that this year, but we foe! that WP are more capable now." 
JOHN DAILY/The Observer 
Junior setter Denise Boylan sets in a recent game. Boylan and the women's volleyball team host West Virginia 
tonight. 


COME JOIN US FOR FREE DINNER AND DISCUSSION When: Wednesday, October 6, 1999 Where: Center for Social Concerns 
Sponsored by: OMSA R.S.V.P. 1-6841 
Football 
continued from page 36 
that the most famous and most important game of the 1940s was not an Irish victo­ry but instead a 0-0 tie to Army in 1946. 
With many of lop Irish players serving in the armed services in the 1994 and 1945 season, tho Cadets had crushed the Irish -59-0 in 1944 and 48-0 in 1945. Tho Cadets went undefeated in both seasons and captured two straight national titles. 
These defeats served as the rallying cry for the Irish before the 1946. "Fifty-nine and 48, this is the year we retaliate!" echoed across campus as the game grov,-: closer. 
The studfmt body mailed postcards to Army head coach Earl "Heel" Blaik and signed them SPATNC ­Society for the Prevention of Army's Third National Championship. 
The battle for Army's third national championship or Notre Dame's first title since 1943 was waged on Nov. 9, 1946, in Yankee Stadium. Although tickets wcren 't publicly available until Aug. 1, the game had been sold out since June. 
Over 74,000 people packed Yankee Stadium for the game that would featurn four Heisman trophy winners -a feat never before or ever since seen on a college grid­iron. "Mr. Inside" Doc Blanchard won the Heisman for Army in 1945 while his teammate "Mr. Outside" Glenn Davis kept the trophy in West Point in 1946. 1947 Heisman-winner John Lujack 
TENNIS 
Irish to take on Illinois 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame nrnn 's and women's tennis teams travel to Stanford for the World Team Tennis National Collegiate Championships this weekend. 
The Irish. se Iected as the Midwest region reprnsentative as the best combined men's and women's tennis program in the Midwes1. will face Illinois in the first round on Friday. The cham­pionship f'eatures 16 of the top teams in the countrv and features the World Team Teirnis format or one sot each of men's and women's singles and doubles and mixed doubles with the team win­ning more total games advancing. 
"This is great opportunity for Notre Dame to participate in an unique event for college tennis," men's head coach Bob Bayliss said. 
"We are really excited to have been selected as the top combinod team in the Midwest." women's head coach Jay Louderback said. 
Notre Dame boasts the high­ranked singles players in second­ranked senior Ryan Sachire and seventh-ranked junior Michelle Dasso. That pair is expected to play singles for the Irish. Seniors Trent Miller and Kelly Zalinski round out the other lrish rnprnsen­,-­tatives and will join Sachirn and Dasso in playing doubles. 
and 1949-winner Leon Harl 
led the Irish attack. . 
Even with the explosive offensive fire power. the game would be dominated by the defenses. The Irish neared the Cadet goal line only once all afternoon. In 
·the second quarter, Notre Dame used sweeps to the right side to move the ball to the 4-yard line. In the shad­ow of their own goal post. however, the Cadet defense dug in and stopped the Irish advance. When a fourth down run to the left was stuffed, the ball turned over to Army and Urn game remained scoreless. The Cadets put together a scoring drive of their own in the second half. Blanr.harcl who earned his nickname of "Mr. Inside" by banging the ball between the tackles, broke toward tlrn center of the line bef'ore bouncing out­sidc and breaking lhrn of tlrn Irish del'ense. As Blanchard scampered clown thn sidelinn towards what appearnd to lrn a certain touchdown, Lujack sped across thn !fold /'or Notre Dame. Tho f'uturn lleisman winner dovn and tackled the past winner for a game-saving touchdown at ­the Irish 37-yard li1w. While Lujack's tackle saved a sure touchdown. the Cadets were still wcrn in striking distance o/' tlrn Irish end zone. Army moved tlrn ball down to tlrn Irish 12-~ yard lirie and tlw Army called for a halfback-option pass. Davis gut the ball and looked for an open receiver. Future Irish head coach Terry Brennan. however, stepped in from of Davis' ­pass at the 8-yard line and intercepted the bal I to pre­serve the scoreless tic. 
l ~ 
. 
~ 
.
l 
. . 
.
I 
. 
~ 

,­
' t 
page 34 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, October 1, 1999 
.... 
MEN 's SOCCER 
Scoring slump ends with 5-2 thrashing of Eagles 
to the season. The Orangemen
By KERRY SMITH 
opened up their l 999 campaign
Sports Writer 
with four consecutive losses before capturing their first win against Big 
All season. the irish have focused East rival Georgetown. relentlessly on sharpening their Since then, Syracuse has dropped attack and producing a more oue game to another Big East team potent offense. West Virginia, beforn picking up 
That hard work paid off two straight wins. Defeating 
Wednesday night, as the men's soc­Adelphi and Army earlier this 
rpr tPam ~ame awav with a deci­week. the Orangemen plan to con­
sive 5-2 win over the Eagles of tinue their streak to make up for a 
Eastern Michigan. Snapping a lackluster start. 
three-game losing streak, the Irish Leading the Orangemen squad 
lit a spark in their offense that are senior forward Gabriel Gervais 
hasn't bP.rm thP-rn all season and. and sophomore midfielder Patrice 
for the first time this year, scored Bernier. The duo combined for 14 
multiplt~ goals in a siugle game. goals and five assists last season 
"It was beautiful." midfielder and have continuPd to rack up Alan Lyskawa said. "We knew it pui11ts this year. Gervais leads Lhe would happen eventually. It's what squad with four goals. while 
we'vo been training for. We've Bernier follows closely with three. 
been working all season on putting The Irish. looking at their second Pf'Oplc forward and trying to get of four straight IJomf' games, will some more goals -it's not some­need to mimic Wednesday's olfou­thing that just happens overnight." sive game to stay on top ol' the 
Plagued before by a tough scor­Orangernen. Tho victory· over ing drought, the Irish in one game Eastern Michigan showcased what managed to double their number of the team has known all along but goals on thf' st->ason, moving from wasn't able to prove on the field ­live tu 1ll. that Lhey have many scorers in the 
"Scoring takes a lot of pressurn line-up and have the potential to off the whole team," Lyskawa said. pose a big threat in front of the net. "When you gel. up on a team by two Five different players tallied a goal or three goals and they start to give each Wednesday, making for a up you don't have to fight for 90 total of seven scorers on the sea­minutes like we've had to do all son. Forward Erich Braun is the season." only repeat scorer on the squad 
The squad. with a 4-4-1 record, with three goals. plans to carry the momentum cre­"Syracuse is a game we're play­ated by Wednesday's win into its ing with a home advantage and we match-up with Big East foe intend to win," Lyskawa said. "We Syracuse on Saturday. aren't going into the game hoping 
During the preseason the Big for a win or thinking we might be East poll placed Notre Dame at the able to win -we know that this is sixth spot. just one notch higher a game we should win." than Syracuse, at the seventh spot. The Irish hold a slight 3-2-0 
The Orangemen, with a 3-5-1 advantage in their series with the 
overall record and a 1-2-0 record Orangemen. The Irish squad picked in the Big East, travel to Alumni up a win in last year's meeting and Field looking to continue their win­look for a repeat performance 
ning streak after a rocky beginning when they take the field Saturday. 
HOCKEY 
Irish to take on 
Canadian team 
national top 10 and finished 
Special ro The Observer 
, in the rugged Central Collegiate Hockey
The Notre Dame hockey 
Association, en route to a 19­team will open its 1999-2000 15-4 overall record. 
season at the Joyce Center 
The lrish will return to the
Fieldhouse tonight, with a 
ice for a two-game series ver­
7:05 p.m. exhibition game sus growing CCHA rivalversus Wilfrid Laurier Michigan on Oct. 7 and 8.
University from Waterloo, Both games will be held atOntario. 
the Joyce Center, with 7:05The Irish open their season p.m. starts.
against a Canadian college Exhibition games versus
for the ninth time in the pro­
Canadian colleges do notgram's modern era and for 
count towards a team's won­
the sixth time in the last 
loss record or official NCAAseven seasons. Notre Dame statistics.
recently opened versus 
Notre Dame hockey gamesWaterloo in 1993, SL-Francis will be broadcast during theXavier in 94, Guelph in '95 
season by South Bend's
and Western Ontario in '96 
WJVA 1580 AM, with live
and '97. 
internet broadcasts also
Notre Dame returns 18 of -available via the Notre Dame
24 letterwinncrs from a 
Athletic Department's oflicial
1998-99 team that spent 
Web site (www.und.com). 
most of the season in the 
Got Sports? 
Call us: -1-4543 


Friday, October 1, 1999 The Observer . TODAY page 35 
.. 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
:1.:M so"R:< foR Tt+E 'WE R.!a.'ill-'< WAIJ1ED WA~ 1"!-+E. D/tN<..~ \(OU 60'<'> 1t> \+/,\/~ Ol.lT A 6ooD "'ft/'\i:".., (""\" , 01\)~'-f E.v'E. 
Fox Tnor 
TOM KEELEY  
:r...-:r•.• -:rvsr oow'-r i<NOvJ W\,\~T -:i: lMv-rEIJ. 'lov•.•  
BILL AMEND  

J'OHNSON!  01<, Fox-LET'S SEE  ~ DID HIT HIM  I'M REALLY A  
RON A PoST  Y00 HIT J'OHfllSoN  IN THE FEET,  LoT BETTER WHEM  
PATTERN.' I  WtTH A. PASS.  I'LL GRANT You THAT.  'TriE REc:Etl/ER 1S STANDl~G Sl1LL.  
I  

JEFF BEAM
A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 

beam.1@nd.edu 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 34 Extinct kiwi 64 Daughter of relative William the 
1 Antisubversive 35 Gifts for the Conquerorgrp. until 1975 betrothed &5Moola 5 Adagio, for one 42Apop 6& Cainites. e.g. 
10 Edges 67 Hunt in 
43Finnan-­
14 It broke up in Hollywood(smoked fish Dec. 1991 
dish) 68 It may come 15 Available easily to hand 
44 Rap sheet letters 16 Switch ending 47 Turner and 17 Jailed others DOWN19 Phone, slangily 49 Throw with effort 
20 Kit item 1 Focus
so Mattress
21 Rhythmic 2 Employment
alternative?
ballroom dance 3 Burn residue 52 Weatherman Al22 Map feature 4Standards53 Fight site 2s Correct sBustle54 Uzbekistan's29 Actor Michael 6 As a whole, in 
--Sea
30 Fixed Le Havre56Arrived31 Kind of 7 1959 Kingstonfingerprint 57 Tot's riding toy 
Trio hit 32 Disagreeable 63 Subj. of state 8 Expected result encounters regulation 
9 Wife of Saturn 10 Kind of center 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 Pressed 
12 1975-76  
S R s  C z A R  -H-1 ~L-T~O~N-.  National League  
T  E C  R A T  E  A M O E B A  M.V.P. Joe  
H  ANTS  UBOATS  13 California wine  

GOOD 
MUL 
L SIDING ADONIS f-=0+-'-1-"-+;.;. 
RAWEST "'"N......_.........._ 
EUGENIA LAST 
has a tough personal problem. 00 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Finan­
cial investments look like they will 
give you quite a gain. You can make 
professional moves that will bring 
you more satisfaction, not to mention 

more cash. 00000 
LIBRA (Sep!. 23-0c!. 22): Your 
partner may be expecting more than 
you are willing to offer. Don't make 
demands at work or at home. It is 
best to listen to others rather than 
force your own opinions on them. 
000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your ability to get a lot done will be appre­ciated by clients and employers. Rela­tionships will develop quickly. Don't make rash decisions or commitments. 
000 SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
Your involvement in sports clubs will help keep you fit. You will meet inter­esting individuals through work. Be aware that risky financial ventures are not likely to pay off. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): II is best to work diligently around the house. Too much idle time could lead to fault-finding. Don't judge others too harshly. 00000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will be in a good position to present ideas, give lectures or just let others know precisely how you view the issues on hand. Rumors will be the source of your aggravation. 00 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Get agreements in writing. Career changes will be tempting, but will not necessarily be in your best interest. Empty promises may lead you to make wrong decisions. 0000 

regionL US 
18 Making mention of 21 "Hazel" cartoonist Key 22 Concerning 23 Friend or foe, e.g. 24 Vocalized 26 Figure 27 1982 sci-fi film 28 Moor 33 Dark brown 36 List 

Punle by Rich Norris 
37 Obviously enthusiastic 
38 Democracy, for one 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: John Mellencamp, Oliver North, Yo-Yo Ma, June Allyson 
Happy Birthday: Use your energy wisely and you will accomplish all that you set out to do this year. If you put demands on others, they may do what you want but they will also develop a poor attitude. You must use your charm and finesse if you really want others to bend over backward for you. Your added discipline will enable you to master anything you set yom mind to. Your numbers: 5, 12, 21, 30, 39, 48 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your anxious behavior may get you labeled a pest. You will tend to overdo it if you are teasing someone. Don't be surprised if the reactions you get from others are negative. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Talk can mean trouble. Don't say anything derogatory or you may find yourself building a web that you can't get out of. You mustn't cover up for someone who has been taking advantage of your loyalty. You may be the fall guy. 
000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Social events will lead to romantic opportu­nities. Gel involved in creative hob­bies that will allow you to use your hands. Singular sports such as tennis or golf will be challenging. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You are likely to have a chance to make changes to your home. Expect friends Far" author to drop by. Peers will resist if you try 
. 39 Sask. neighbor wink, maybe to push your beliefs on them. 0000 
57 "A likely story!" 
40 "Had enough?" 62W.W. II LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your inter­sa Shelley work command est in travel will lead you to some
41 One in the 
new and exciting places. You will be
futures market? 
able to help a friend or relative who 44 Calculator of a 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: determination to stand your ground, stick up for your beliefs, and abide by the 
kind Birthday Baby: Your greatest gift lies in your own willpower. You have the 
45 Dojo activity 
1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). traditions and morals you are raised with. You will bring your family hope, 46 Lacking vitality Annual subscriptions are available for the strength and courage with your steadfast manner and reluctance to give up. 47 Norris Darn best of Sunday crosswords from the last (Need advice? Visit Eugenia on the Web at www.astroadvice.com or project: Abbr. 50 years: 1-888;7-ACROSS. www.eugenialaslcom.) 
© 1998 Universal Press Syndicatl' 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 


Offensive At1tack 
After struggling this season to put the ball in the net. the Irish men's soccer team broke out to defeat Eastern Michigan 5-2 Wednesday.
PORTS 
page 34 
O
THE page 36 BSERVER Friday, October I, 1999 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish kick off four-game homestand against Hoyas 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Associate Spores Editor 
The women's soccer team returns home with a 6-2 record and a 3-0 record in the Big East to face two conference oppo­nents this weekend on Alumni Field. _ 
On Friday, the Irish take on the Georgetown Hoyas at 7:30 
p.m. The Villanova Wildcats travel to South B1md on Sunday for a 1 p.m. showdovm with the Irish. 
This wet>kend kicks off a four­game home stand after spending the last four games on the road. The Irish are happy to be back aL home, according to head coach Randy Waldrum. 
"This past weekend was the best we have played all season," he said. "So it is nice to be com­ing home playing so well." 
One of the reasons for the improved play of the Irish is the return of Anne Makinen from her involvement with the Finnish national team and the return to health of junior cap­tain Kelly Lindsey from a knee injury she suffered against North Carolina. 
The Irish have had difficulty settling down without Makinen. 
"It is nice to get her back in the line up," he said. "When she is out of the line up, we have dif­ficulty getting into a rhythm." 
In Makinen and Lindsey's absence, the Irish never settled on a line-up of defenders and midfielders. Senior captain Jen Grubb and freshman Nancy Mikacenic rotated between the midfield and the back line while Llndsey Jones and Kerri Bakker shuffied in and out of the line up 
CROSS COUNTRY
-
on the back line. 
"We've spent a lot of time tin­kering with the line up," Waldrum said. "We've moved Jen Grubb and Nancy Mikacenic around. Vanessa Pruzinskv and Kara Brown have played well along with Kerri Bakker and Lindsey Jones but we haven't been steady enough. We need to get more consistent in the center of our defense." 
The defense played its best game of the year against Rutgers last Sunday. The Irish allowed just four shots and none of them were on goal. Irish goal­keeper LaKeysia Beene recorded the 29th shutout of her career without making a save. 
The Irish scored eight goals from five different players in last weekends two v,ri.ns. The variety of goal-scorers this year shows that the Irish have a much more balanced attack than last sea­son. In 1998, the Irish relied on 
forward Jenny Heft, who scored • 
28 goals last year, for most of 
the offense. 
"You hope you can be bal­anced," Waldrum said. "We have a balanced attack this year rather than relying on one per­son. It's not a bad thing to rely on one person but it limits you a bit. When you rely on one per­son, the defense can mark her more tightly and slow down your attack." 
The Georgetown offense enters its matchup with Notre Dame flying high. In their last game against the Bison of Howard, the Hoyas scored seven second:half goals to cruise to an 8-0 victory. Besides the victory over Howard, however, 
see SOCCER/page 30 

JOHN DAIL Y!The Observer Irish midfielder Mia Sarkesian advances the ball against North Carolina. The Irish take on Big East rivals Villanova and Georgetown this weekend. 
Runners to host annual Invite 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Assistant Spores Editor 
The lrish cross country squads will need all their fire­power today to knock off the top teams in the country. 
The Irish host the Notre Dame Invitational at the Notre Dame Golf Course. This wiU be the 44th running of the meet, which is among the oldest invi­tationals in the nation. 
On the men·s side, Georgetown, Mirhigan and Missouri arc all ranked higher than Notre Dame. Ohio State and Clemson have strong teams as well, teams which Notre Dame will need to overcome in order to wind up ,vith a victory. 
"The men are going to give it [winning] a try," men's head coach Joe Piane said. "Georgetown, according to the national. polls, is head and shoulders above anybody else in the meet. But we're not going to roll over and give it to them." 
Running varsity for the Irish on the men's side wiJI be seniors .John Dudley, Ryan Maxwell and Scan Mc:\<1anus, junior Ryan Shay, and sopho­mores Marc Striowski, LukP Watson and Pat Conwav. This will be the first meet this ·season in which all seven of Notn~ Dame's top runners have com­peted. 
Shay is shooting for the in.di­
victual title. He won his third consecutive title at the National Catholic Invitational, but this would be his first win in the Notre Dame Invitational. Although the Irish men won as a team in 1995, they have not had an individual champion in recent years. 
"For me, Coach wants me to go out with the lead runners, because no one from Notre Dame has won in a number of years," Shay said. "But basical­ly, coach Piane would like us to run as a nice pack group and go out a little conservatively. We should stay within striking dis­tance of the lead, though, and 
see INVITE/page 32 
FOOTBALL HISTORY 
1946 tie highlights domilnating decade 
Editor's note: Notre Dame's journey to achieve designation as the 20th century's greatest college football team is marked by 10 milestones, one in each decade. The Obseruer examines these moments in a JU-part series that appear on Fridays. 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Associate Spons Editor 
In 1946, Frank Leahy returned to the Notre Dame sidelinfls after serving two years in the armed forces and immediately brought the Irish back to the place where he'd left them in 1943 -the top of the college football world. 
From 1946 to 1949 the Irish won 36 games and never lost. Only two ties blemished the Irish record in the post-war 1940s. Notre Dame won throe national titles in that span ­in 1946, 1947 and 1949. 1948 saw Notre Dame with a record of 9-0-1 finish second to unde­feated Michigan. 
With all the winning in the 1940s, it may he surprising 
see FOOTBALL/page 33 
vs. Georgetown vs. OklahomaCross Country Today, 7:30 p.m. ,.._ Saturday, l :30 p.m. 
Notre Dame Invirarional 
SPORTS 
Today, 2:15 p.m. • 
ATA 
~ 
vs. Wifird Laurier Volleyball sn,,, at Goshen Collge Today, 7:05 p.m. vs. West Virginia Sund~, 2 p.m. 
GLANCE ~ • Today, 8 p.m. 

NSIDER 
O
THE 
Friday, October 1, 1999 BSERVER Notre Dame vs. Oklahoma 

JOHN DAILYfThe Observer 
Throughout his four-year career at Notre Dame, Raki Nelson has had a knack for the big play. In 1999, however, Nelson has become Notre Dame's most consis­tent receiver whlle still making big plays. For more on this prime-time player, see page 3. 
KICK•OFF FORECASTINSIDE 
game preview... ...........page 2 
rosters........................page 4 
home: 1-1 home: 2-0
vs.
focus on Oklahoma.......page 5 
away: 0-2 away: 1-0 college games today....page 6 

gametime: 1:30 p.m. ND time 
pregame commentary.. .page 7 
weather: chance ofrain. highs in the low 60s 
page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 1, 1999 
game hype 

"! really think we are going to get this thing solved and I think we are going to be a really good 
Bob Davie 
football team. " 
head coach 
"I think winning will really put some life into this team. ,, 

Jordan Black tackle 

"We know we can make plays and get the ball down.field ... 
Raki Nelson reciever 
"I see us getting better by leaps and bounds." 

Kevin Rogers offensive coordinator 

Angry, healthy Irish ready for Sooners 
glad they have enough pulse By MIKE CONNOLLY 
to see that. We don't have 
Associate Sports Editor 
many secrets. We usually 
identify what we think are our 
Standing 6-foot-6 and 
concerns ... Because I don't weighing 313 pounds, sopho­want to be nervous on third­more tackle Jordan Black is and-one handing off the foot­not the kind of person you ball or fourth-and-1 punting want to make angry. the football. Last year against
Unfortunately for the Purdue on fourth-and-1, we Oklahoma Sooners, Black and 
went for it from our own 38­
his teammates are a little irri­yard line in the second quar­tated coming into their 
ter -a lot had to do with we Saturday match-up. felt pretty good we can make "I am a little angry," he said. it." 
"I don't like it when Notre Davie also has to feel prettyDame loses ... Notre Dame 
good about the health of his should never be 1-3." 
football team coming off the 
The Irish have had two 
bye week. Flanker Joey
weeks to ponder their 1-3 Getherall, tight end John start. That poor start -along 
Owens and safety Ronnie with some comments from 
Nicks all missed the Michigan
head coach Bob Davie and the State game with injuries but media -have fired up the ail are expected to play team dming its off week. against Oklahoma. 
One comment in particular The return of Getherall is a has served as a rallying cry for surprise for the Irish. When the oil'ensive line, according to 
he injured his shoulder 
Black. Two weeks ago after against Michigan, he was not the loss to Michigan State, expected to return until the Davie said that he passed the use game on Oct. 16 but h~ 
ball on third-and-1 because he healed faster than expected 
JOHN DAILY/The Observer 
didn't have enough confid1mce and has bAen cleared by the 
Irish quarterback Jarlous Jackson recovered from his turf
in the running game's ability trainers to suit up against the 
toe injury in 1:he off week and will play on Saturday.
to get one yard. Sooners. "We took that a little bit per­In Nicks' absence, sopho­Anthony Denman coming off also healed. 
sonally," Black said. "We have more Tyreo Harrison stepped the best game of his career, The Irish appear to be confi­really worked hard these past up and played extremely well. 
the three-man rotation of dent and healthy heading into two weeks to get better so that Although he has started only Nicks, Denman and Harrison Saturday's game -butwon't happen again. We feel one game, Harrison is fifth of at inside linebacker should appearances can be deceivingthat we should be good the team in tackles with 17 keep the Irish fresh all game. and the Irish won't know ifenough to get one yard or five and third on the team in tack­
Tony Driver and Jarious they have improved in two
yards at any time." les-for-loss with three. 
Jackson are also healthy after weeks until they step onto theDavie was happy to hear Harrison has also broken up 
the off week. Jackson has field.
that the offensive line had 
two passes from his inside 
used the downtime to recover "I think we will know moretaken his comments to heart. linebacker position. 
from his turf toe while the come Saturday because the"I am glad they took that With Nicks healthy and 
shoulder injury suffered reality is you have got to gopersonally," he said. "I am 
junior inside linebacker 
against Michigan State has play a game," Davie said. 

• DOWNTOWN JUST ONE MILE FROM N.D. · 31 SOUTH, LEFT ON COLFAX •
•
• 
•
• 
•
• 
•
• 
•
• 
WATCH ALL COLLEGE,
• COME IN •
•
• NFL, NBA, MLB, NHL
FORA •
• 
GAIVIES HERE ON OUR •
• 
BLUE N GOLD •
• •¦ 6 TV'S & BIG SCREEN TV •
•
•
• 
•
• 
•
•
• CELEBRATE THE TRADITION OF THE IRISH AND THE BREWING •
•
• 
¦ HISTORY IN SOUTH BEND AT THE MOST SCENIC SITE IN TOWN •
•
• !·-··-··-··-·····-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··! .......-..-..-..-......-..-..-··-..-.·-··-··-·.-·.-··-··-.·-..-....
• ! ! • 
. FREE · •
• 282~BREW $20FF •
• APPETIZER 
•
• 4
• WITH PURCHASE l ON ANY ORDER •
•
• 
¦ OF 2 ENTREES OF $ 1 0 OR MORE t •
• ONE COUPON PER PARTY ONE COUPON PER PARTY• EXPIRES 1 2/30/99 POOL T ABl,...ES -CIGAR LOUNGE .. DARTS EXPIRES 1 2/30/99 •¦ .-··-··-·•-·.--··-.....................--··-..-··-·.-··-.--··-··-··-·.... ' !_.....•-··••·-··••····............_.................-.................... •
• 
¦
• ¦ ' ¦ 
¦ PROGRESSIVE AMERICAN CUISINE SERVING •
•
• 
¦ 
¦ LUNCH, DINNER AND LATE NIGHT MENU •¦ 
¦ 1•
•
• 
¦
¦ 
IRISH MUSIC JAM SESSION 1ST & 3RD TUESDAY EACH MONTH ¦ 
•¦ 
•¦ 
•
• FOOD/DRINK SPECIALS • BANDS YIEDNESDAYS • 
¦•
•
• ¦
¦ OPEN MON -SAT @ 1 1 :30, SUN @ NOON -BEST BANQUET ROOMS IN TOWN 
¦ • 
¦ 300 E. COLFAX A VENUE, SOUTH E3END ¦ 
¦
................................................•................., ¦ 
Friday, October l, 1999 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
More mature Nelson excels in '99 
. Former Pa. player of the year fulfills potential in senior season 
By TIM CASEY 

Sports Writer 
Nelson 
Following a recent practice at Cartier Pield, wide position:jlanker rnceivllrs coach Urban Meyer year: senior emphatically stated the differ­
awards: 1995 Pennsylvania
ence betwem1 the Raki Nelson 
high school player of
or 1999 and the Haki Nelson of the past three seasons: the year. Chicago Sun­maturity and W[)rk ethic. Times top 100 player
"This· is the first time he's 
notables: leads Irish in 
made a completn dedication 
receptions in 1999
to prnpa:_ing himself to plar a s<:uson, Meyer said. "Unfortunately he didn't do that for four years because his parents convinced him to 
lw's got some ability. He's 
come north. 
invested a lot into it right now "J wasn't really iniernsied in and it's paying off." 
Notre Dame,"-Nelson said. ''My
"llis work ethic wasn't 
parents really wanted me to gowhom it was supposed to be," 
here because of the educa­
Meyer continued. "Ile thought tion." 
you just went out and played 
"I was leaning towards football on Saturdays and 
Florida because they threw the 
that's not the case. This is big­
ball a lot," Nelson continued. 
time college football. It's a full­"But I knew that I'd get expo­year job." 
sure here being on TV everyDue to his off-season com­week and I knew my family
mitment to strength training 
would be able to see me play."
and by staying this summer 
Coming from a high school 
with his teammates, Nelson team that passed 40 times a 
has shed his old image. The game, Nelson knew his role loam-leader with 19 catches, 
would change in college. 
Nelson has become more of a "I had to learn how to block 
consistent threat this season. 
and get down and dirty in the 
lie agrees with  trenches," 
M1iyer's assess­ Nelson said. "I  
nrnn t of his  "Everyone's getting to  had to under­ 
incrnased dr.di­ see a guy that I have  stand that l  
cation.  
"I definitely  been able to see for  wasn't going to get ihe ball all  
workr.d harder  four years. ,,  the time.  
this summer  Sometimes I had  
than in the past," Nelson  Bobby Brown  to be a bloc,ker and do what it  
said. "I stayed  split end  takes to win the  
here practically  game." 
the whole sum- In his first  

mer dedicating myself to the three years, nagging injuries season. It has helped me." limited Nelson's playing time. While Nelson feels he's 
An ankle sprain forced him to 
matured, he also believes miss four games last year,another kev to his sudden 
while a bruised hip sidelined mrrnrgence is that his team­him in 1997. 
mates and the coaching staff In the meantime, he came to 
have instilled more confidence 
be known as a clutch third 
in him this season. 
down receiver. As a sopho­"As you go through your more, in the midst of a 7-6 
earner here, the coaches gain 
season, Nelson came off the morn confidence in you," 
bench to spark the Irish come­Nelson said. ''I'd say that's 
back victory in the regularanother part of the maturing 
season finale against Hawaii. process-having the trust of the 
On third-and-17 with 1:30 
teammates and the coaching 
left in the game, Nelson caughtstaff. Then you start thinking a 47-yard crossing pattern to 
that because these guys 
the Hawaii 9-yard line. Scott beliove in me, I'm going to 
Cengia's 20-yard field goal start believing in myself 
sealed the Irish victorv. After 
more." being sidelined for th~ previ­Nelson never experienced a ous week due to a hip pointer
confidence prob!Am before 
injury, Nelson's heroics lifted 
coming to Notre Dame. The the Irish to an Independence1995 Pennsylvania player of 
Bowl berth against LSU. 
thu yuar as a senior, Nelson A year ago, Nelson again
attracted the attention of 
made an impact in the final Florida, North Carolina and 
home game of the season. Syracuse, among others. 
Nelson caught a lll•yard pass
hel'ore committing to Notre 
from Jarious Jackson with 
Dame. 1:27 remaining to put the Irish 
Enthralled by Steve 
ahead for good against LSU. 
Spurrier's "Fun and Gun" 
"That was another situation 
offensn at Florida, Nelson was 
where I was coming off an 
ready to commit to the Gators. 
injury," Nelson said. "I just
But just prior to signing day, 
wanted to go out there and 


play again. When I made that catch it was exciting for me but also for the team because we ended up winning the game." 
So far this year, Nelson has been the most consistent per­form er on the Irish offense. With the graduation of Malcolm Johnson, Nelson has become Jackson's favorite tar­get. 
Nelson's finest performance of the year came in front of the NCM record 111,000 fans in Michigan Stadium. The Nelson-Jackson connection hit five times on the day, including three on the final Irish drive for 70 yards. He followed that performance up with 11 total receptions in the next two games against Purdue and Michigan State. 
''I've seen him become more consistent and more mature in a lot of areas, both on and off the field this year," head coach Bob Davie said. "His attitude has been really positive." 
Fellow receiver and good friend Bobby Brown has seen Nelson perform for four years and is not surprised by his suc­cess. 
"He makes big plays," said Brown, "He's done it for four years now. I'm happy to see it. He's been injury free and his attitude has been right. Everyone's getting to see a guy that I've been able to sec for four years." 
In the midst of a 1-3 start, Nelson feels his team is ready for the rest of the season. 
"We had a bye week to think about it," said Nelson, "We know we 're a good team but we've just been making mis­takes. We know we can make plays and get the ball down­field. We're going to turn it around." 
birthdate: Dec. 29, 1977 a word to describe him off the chose Notre Dame over: 
hometown: Harrisburg, Pa. field: nice Florida, North 
major: economics the people who have helped Carolina and 
dimensions: 5-Joot-11, 190 him the most since he has Syracuse 
up close & 
personal 
pounds been at Notre Dame: my if he could play one position on a word to describe him on the family the other side of the ball it would be: cornerback
WITH RAKI NELSON field: aggresive 


page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 1, 1999 
1999 SOONERS
1999 FIGHTING IRISH IN POSITION: running backs 
. Aug~ Sept. ·4 '" lfllll / 
Sept. 11 •F af Purdue' ·.. Spet. 18 MICHIGAtfSTATE · 

ame Oct. 2 OKLAHOMA 
EXAS 
A&M
Oct 9 .ARIZONA STATt 
lorado
oet 16 use. 
Oet. 30 · . · NAVY 
SSOURI 
Nov. ti · )f1enne1u1e11 
• ifStale 
Nov. 13 .,..,..· •atPittsflutgh 
as Tech Nov; 20' 'BOSTfiN COtlEGf . 
TATE 
Nov.t7:, 
first season at
third season at 
OklahomaNotre Dame career record: 
career record: 
3-0
I7-I2 
at Oklahoma:
at Notre Dame: 
JOHN DAILY/The Observer 
3-0
17-12 
Tony Fisher, shown here against the Spartans, and the Irish running game mus1t 
against Notre
against 
step up their play if the Irish are to end their losing streak. 
Dame: o-oOklahoma: o-o 
ND must run the ball to win 
RosterRoster 
No. Name Pos. Ht-Wt. YR
In the midst of a three-game losing 
I Jarrail Jackson WR 5-9 193 SR No. Name Pos. Ht. Wt. YR 
Observer Staff Report 
2 Mike Woods CB 5-10 188 SR 1 Deke Cooper I'S 6--2 220 SR 
streak, the Irish must return to a strong 
3 Josh Norman RB 6-2 228 so 2 Carlos Pierre-Antoine ILB 6--3 245 so 
rushing attack if they are to defeat the 
4 Pee Wee Woods CB 5-8 178 SR 3 AmazBattle, QB 6--1 215 so 
In the past, Notre Dame has been Sooners. If Notre Dame can successfully 
5 Julius McMillan WR 6-1 190 so 4 JamaarTaylor WR 6--0 200 FR 
6 Antwone Savage WR 6-1 190 fR 5 A'Jani Sanders FS 5-ID 197 SR 
able to run the ball whenever it wanted. run the ball, it can control the ball and 
7 Michael Thornton RB 5-5 187 SR
This year. however. the Irish running keep it out of the hands of hands of the 
6 David Givens SE 6-1 217 so 
7 Brandon Everage DB 5-11 169 FR 7 Jarious Jackson QB 6-1 228 SR 
game has struggled, Unable to generate high-powered Oklahoma offense. 
8 Brandon Daniels WR 5-10 207 SR 8 Anthony Brannan OLB 5-10 215 SR 
8 Nate Hybl QB 6--3 224 so 9 Raki Nelson FL 5-11 180 SR 
a consistent attack, head coach Bob • If the running game continues to 
9 Johnnie Balous RB 6-1 230 SR 9 Dwayne Francis DB 6-0 189 so 
Davie has lost confidence in his team's struggle, Saturday could be a long day 
10 Torrence Marshall LB 6-2 242 JR 10 Deveron Harper CB 5-11 187 SR 
ability to run the ball for the tough for the Irish defense -and for Irish 
11 Chase Williams QB 6-2 229 FR 11 Jay Johnson SE 6-0 191 SR 
11 OnteiJones ss 5-9 230 SR 12 Tony Fisher RB 6-2 225 so 
yards, fans. 
12 Curtis Pagan WR 5-11 184 so 13 Nick Sett, KIP 6-0 160 FR 

13 Damien Mackey WR 5-11 186 so 
p
14 James Caputo 6-1 193 SR 
14 Josh Heupel QB 6--2 205 JR 14 Dan Novakov QB &-3 210 FR 
15 J.T. Thatcher DB 6--0 211 JR 15 Clifford Jefferson CB 5-9 182 so 
16 Patrick Fletcher QB 5-10 167 JR 16 Glenn Earl DB 6--1 185 FR 
17 Andre Woolfolk WR 6--1 184 so 16 John Shingler TE 6--2 252 SR 
18 Jason Joseph FS 5-10 196 SR 17 Joey Hildbold P/K 5-11 175 FR 
18 Jason White QB 6--2 212 FR 17 Jeremy Juarez FB 5-11 250 JR 
19 Michael Thompson DB 6--1 188 FR 18 Joey Getherall FL 5-7 176 JR 
19 Jimmy Stewart K 6--0 185 FR 19 Jim Sanson K 5-9 187 SR 
20 Rocky Ca!mus LB 6-3 226 so 20 Gerome Sapp DB 6--0 210 FR 
'li Jay Hunt RB 5-11 206 so 21 Javin Hunter FL 6--0 185 so 
22 Quenton Griffin RB 5-6 180 FR 22 Julius Jones RB 5-11 185 FR 
23 Derrick Strait DB 5-10 186 FR 23 Chris Yura RB/DB 5-11 195 FR 
24 Reggie Skinner RB 5-8 202 SR 24 Albery Poree DB 5-10 185 FR 
24 Marcus Scott DB 5-10 185 FR 25 Tony Driver TB 6-1 217 JR 
25 Stanley Peters RB 5-8 175 so 26 Lee Lafayette CB 5-9 196 SR 
26 Dwight McKissic RB 5-10 216 so 27 Jason Beckstrom DB 5-10 185 FR 
28 William Bartee DB 6-1 200 SR 28 Donald Dykes ss 5-11 197 so 
28 Jarvis Smith WR 5-8 164 FR 28 Mike Grady FS 5-11 200 SR 
29 Curtis Bumble WR 5-9 181 FR 29 Justin Smith FS 5-11 190 JR 
30 Matt Mayhew DB 5-11 187 so 30 Rocky Boiman OLB 6--4 245 so 
30 Kerry Salesman RB 6--0 200 FR 32 Terrance Howard TB 6-1 193 so 
31 Marvin Shoulders DB 5-10 180 JR 33 Courtney Watson RB 6-2 205 FR 
32 Ty Kincannon DB 6--1 209 FR 34 Ronnie Nicks ILB 6-0 240 SR 
32 Joe Mueller LB 5-11 200 JR 
35 David Miller K-P 5-11 190 so 
34 Matt McCoy DB 5-10 187 FR 35 Tim O'Neill TB 5-5 163 so 
35 Seth Littrell RB 5-10 213 JR 36 Tom Lopienski FB 6-1 259 so 
38 Roy Williams DB 6--0 219 so 37 Ron Israel ss 6-0 205 JR 
38 Buster Kuhn RB 5-8 192 SR 39 Anthony Denman ILB 6-2 230 JR 
40 Tim Duncan PK 6--2 193 so 39 Chris Lecl< ss 5-9 192 SR 
41 John Connor WR 6--0 199 so 40 Jason Murray FB 6-1 260 JR 
42 Matt Reeves K 5-9 188 SR 40 Brendan Farrell !LB 5-9 232 SR 
42 Anthony Davis DB 5-10 186 FR 41 Joe Ferrer OLB 6--2 235 SR 
43 Jamar Mozee RB 5-10 215 FR 42 Shane Walton CB 5-11 185 so 
45 Rodney Rideau DB 6--3 222 FR 44 Grant Irons DE 6--5 272 JR 
46 Brandon Moore CB 5-11 179 SR 45 Joey Goodspeed Fil 6-0 250 SR 
47 Armand Spence RB 6--1 181 RB 46 Andrew Dempsey TE/DE 6--2 252 JR 
48 Sedric Jones ss 5-11 209 SR 
47 Mike McNair FB 6-0 242 so 
49 Rod Taylor WR 5-10 193 FR 48 Johnathan Hebert SE 5-11 199 SR 
50 Greg Muhammad CB 5-11 188 SR 50 Cedric HiUiard DL 6--3 295 FR 
51 Roger Steffen ILB 6--1 234 JR 51 Tyreo Harrison !LB 6--2 235 so 
52 Tanner Reynolds K-P 5-11 177 FR 52 Jeff Faine OL 6-3 310 FR 
53 . Eric Thunander LB 6-1 210 FR 53 Lamont Bryant DE 6-3 265 SR 
54 Trey Whitlock LB 6--0 207 FR 54 B.J. Scott C 6-3 285 SR 
55 Brian Jimerson LB 6--3 210 FR 55 Jim Jones 0G 6--3 307 SR 
56 Brandon Pryor FB 6--2 240 FR 56 Pat Ryan LB 6-3 220 FR 
58 Nick Simpson CB 5-9 177 SR 56 John Crowther LS 6-2 245 so 
59 Stephan Burcham CB 6--0 198 so 57 Justin Thomas LB 6-2 230 FR 
60 MattO'Neal SS 6--0 212 SR 57 Luigi Rao LB 5-10 208 JR 
62 Jay Ridenour OL 5-11 295 so 58 Brendan O'Connor 0G 6-2 292 JR 
62 Chike Ozumba CB 5-10 189 so 60 Darrell Campbell DL 6--4 245 so 
63 Frank Romero OL 6--3 267 so 
61 Mike Zelenka FB 6-0 218 JR 
64 Ryan Allen 55 5-10 195 JR 62 Casey Robin or 6-7 311 JR 
65 Will Mathis FB 6--1 254 so 
63 Brennan Curtin OL 6--8 295 FR 
66 J. Barclay OL 6--3 266 FR 63 Mike Tribe !LB 5-10 220 JR 
67 Ben Pante OLB 6-2 231 JR 64 John Merandi C 6--3 300 SR 
69 Brad Davis !LB 6--1 212 so 65 Sean Milligan OL· 6--4 285 FR 
71 Jay Smith OLB 6--5 256 so 66 JW Jordan C 6-l 277 JR 
72 Scott Kempenich FB 6--0 241 JR67 Ryan Gillis OL 6-3 315 PR 
73 Trevor Nutt 01.B 6-<l 228 so 
68 Matt Brennan or 6-6 305 SR 
73 Jeremy Hess OS 6--2 210 so fl') Mike Gandy 0G 6-4 292 SR 
74 Kelly Stratton OL 6--2 280 FR 70 Jim Molinaro DL 6-7 240 FR 
75 Mike Skinner OL 6--4 315 so 71 Neil Ambron OL 6-7 275 FR 
76 Al Baysinger OL 6--4 341 JR 72 Ryan S<'arola OL 6-5 303 so 
77 Josh Smith OL 6-1 268 so 
74 Rob Mow! 0G 6-5 295 SR 
78 Stockar McDougle OL 6-5 354 SR 75 KurtVollers ar 6-7 29'l JR 
79 Darren Riddles OL 6-3 300 JR 76 John Teasdale OT 6-6 306 JR 
80 DoWight Benning WR 6--0 211 so 77 Brad Willi•ms DT 6-4 288 SR 
81 Chris Hammons TE 6-3 244 JR 71! Jordan Black OT f,-6 313 so 
p
82 Parker Neal 6-0 207 so 
79 Sean Mahan or 6-4 285 so 
82 Michael Jackson WR 5-11 195 SR 80 Gary Godsey TE 6-7 2S5 FR 
83 Jeff Ferguson K 5-10 183 so 83 Patrick Reynolds WR 5-11 184 so 83 Ryan Daniel WR 6-1 188 so 84 John Owens TE 6-3 246 FR 84 Buck Scifres WR 6-2 201 FR 
85 Antv-,1on Junes OT 6-2 283 SR 
84 Sam Sacheck DE 6-5 225 FR 85 Mark Rule WR/QB 6-2 218 SR 
86 Marcus Brooks WR 5-11 183 SR 
86 Dan O'Leary TE 6-4 260 SR 
87 Cornelius Burton DL 6-<5 275 SR 87 Jabari Holloway TE 6--4 260 JR 
88 Trent Smith TE 6-5 229 so 88 Bobby Brown FL 6-2 193 SR 
90 Matt AndcrSon Tu 6-2 250 SR 89 Gerald Morgan TE 6--4 261 so 
91 Ramon Richardson DT 6-1 293 JR90 Lance Leg,ee OT 6-1 296 SR 
92 Corey Callens DL 6-1 266 JR 91 N. VanHook-Drucker DE 6-2 271 SR 
93 Kory Klein DT 6-1 255 FR 94 Andy Wisne OT 6-3 270 JR 
94 Ryan Fisher DL 6-1 277 
JR
95 Ryan Roberti; DE 6-2 260 so 
95 Darryl Bright DL 6-4 269 JR98 Anthony Weaver DT 6-3 270 so 
96 Jeremy Wilson-Guest DL 6-1 299 JR 98 Eric Glass DT 6-4 252 SR 
97 John Williams DE 6--3 250 so
99 Jason Ching DE 6-3 267 SR 
98 David Jones OE 6-2 221 FR 99 Bary Holleyman DL 6-4 269 so 



Friday, October l, 1999 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 5 
EYE ON THE ENEMY 
OU brings another tough QB to ND Stadium 

AMERICAN, JAPANESE & CHINESE FOOD 
£.. W®rul ©®llil rn:~~ OOooUU@~ 
Open Hours 
MONDAY TO THURSDAY: 
11:00 am to 10:30 pm 
r------------------T------------------, FRIDAY TO SATURDAY: r------------------,------------------,
I I I 11:00 am to 11:00 pm I 
I I
King's Buffet King's Buffet King's King's
I I 
I I SUNDAY: I I
50% off 50% off 50% off 50% off
I 11:00 am to 10:00 pm I 
I I 
I Lunch for Lunch for I Dinner for Dinner for
I I 512 W. Cleveland Road, Granger, I I 
' 
2 People 2 People I 2 People 2 People
I I
L __________________.J.. __________________ J L __________________.J.. __________________ J 
I IN46530 I 
I I I 
fast facts 
ABOUT OKLAHOMA 
. 
Location: Norman, Okla. . Enrollment: 27,000 

. 
Colors: crimson and cream 

. 
Nickname: Sooners 

. 
Conference: Big 12 

. 
Fight song: "Boomer Sooner" 


I ../-! ,,--.
••-•·r 
. 
Notre Dame and Oklahoma have not played since a 1968 Irish win. 

. 
Oklahoma holds the NCAA record for consecutive victories (47) from 1953-57, a streak sandwiched between losses to Notre Dame. 


By BILL HART 
Associate Sporrs Editor 
After facing three of the top quarterbacks in the Big Ten in as many weeks, a change to a Big 12 team should present a different scenario for the Irish. 
But the No. 23 Sooners ­ranked for the first time since 1995 -have a their own sig­na I caller who has made a name for himself early into the season: junior quarterback Josh Ileupel. 
"You know, he seems to be a guy that is real accurate, real confident," Irish head coach Bob Davie said about Heupel. "He hits open receivers. They are like Purdue in the fact that they get a lot of yards after the catch.tt 
A first-year junior from Snow Junior College, Heupel has managed to rewrite the Sooner record book in his short time on campus. For the second straight week, he earned Big 12 offensive player of the week honors after a 42­21 romp of Louisville on national television last week­end. 
In that game, Heupel set the school single-game record for passing yards for the third straight game, going 29-of-42 for 429 yards. He also accounted for all six Sooner touchdowns, five by passing and running one in by himself. Three games into the season, he has a total of 11 touchdown passes -onP shy of the Oklahoma season record. 
"The thing I see," Davie said, "is he stepped in there and he looks like he has been in major college football and been in that offense for a long time and he is real confident and he is real steady and he is accurate. So he looks like the right quarterback for that sys­tem." 
So far this season, Heupel's offensive prowess, combined with the arrival of head coach Bob Stoops, seems to be just the trick to reviving a long dormant Oklahoma offense. 
In each of the past three games, the Sooners have topped 500 yards and 40 points of offense -firsts for the team since 1985. 
Combined with a defense that has allowed a total of 16 points in tho first half, getting an early lead against the Sooners is a difTicult goal. 
While Heupel's perfor­mances have sparked the offense to victory, a deep core of receivers makes his job a little easier. As part of the revamped, aerial offense that Stoops endorses. eight first­year receivers and tight ends have enlisted with the Sooners, providing more than 505 yards of offense. 
But Heupel's favorite targets are two veteran receivers ­Josh Norman and .Jarrail Jackson -who havo com­bined for six touchdowns and 278 receiving yards so far this season. 
"I know what kind of players they have," Davie said. "They start seven seniors on offense and they go out and get a junior college quarterback and they have got a great scheme. They arc :\lo. 1 in the nation total offense, and they throw it 50 times a game. It's come along way from those wish­bone days." 
273-8477 
page 6 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 1, 1999 
Irish 
experts 

Brian Kessler sports editor 
(11-5) 
OKLAHOMA 
MICHIGAJ\J TEXAS VIRGINIA TECH 

Bill Hart 
associate editor 
(11-5) 
NOTRE DAME MICHIGAN TEXAS VIRGINIA TECH 

Mike Connolly 
associate editor 
(10-6) 
NOTRE DAME MICHIGAN TEXAS VIRGINIA TECH 

Tim Casey football writer 
(11-5) 
NOTRE DAME MICHIGAN KANSAS STATE VIRGINIA TECH 
AROUND THE NATION 

Arbor to face No. 4 UM 
By BRIAN KESSLER Sports Editor 
Heisman-hopeful quarterback Drew Brees and the high-flying Purdue offense visit The Big House on Saturday looking to extend their winning streak to 11 games. 
The Boilermakers, however. will have their hands full playing No. 4 Michigan on the road. 
Purdue is off to a 4-0 start and hasn't lost since last October. but they haven't played Michigan since 1996, because of the Big Ten's unbalanced schedule. 
The No. 10 Boilermakers have been the beneficiary of a weak early-season schedule that has seen three of their victories come against Central Florida, 
Central Michigan and Northwestern. They also beat a Notre Dame team that is currently 1-3. 
"This will show if we're pretenders or contenders," Purdue defensive tackle Matt Mitrione said. 
Michigan, on the other hand, has proven itself year in and year out. The Wolverines are also off to a 4-0 start and have already beaten Syracuse and Wisconsin on the road. They do, how­ever, have respect for Brees and com­pany. 
"It may be the best offensive team in the country," Michigan head coach Lloyd Carr said. "They score fast and often and from anywhere on the field. We're going to have to play our best game of the season to win." 
The Michigan running game, current­ly ranked 10th in the conference for rushing, is going to have to step it up for the Wolverines to win. 
Purdue hasn't won at Michigan since 1966. 
No. 13 Kansas State at No. 15 Texas 
Kansas State ventures on the road for a second straight Big 12 game after their narrow escape at Iowa State last Saturday. The Wildcats rallied from a 21-point halftime deficit to defeat the Cyclones, 35-28. Kansas State beat its first two opponents -Temple and Texas-El Paso -bv a combined 80-7. 
Texas remembers embarrassing defeat last season in Manhattan. Kan., when quarterback Major Applewhite made his first start. 
Last year, Kansas State routed Texas 48-7 and held Heisman Trophy winner Ricky Williams to just 43 yards on 25 carries. 
The Longhorns have won four straight games since an opening-season loss to North Carolina State. 
The Longhorns' only victory over a team with a winning record this season was a 69-17 rout of Stanford in the Cardinal's season opener. Stanford has since won three in a row. 
Last week, Texas beat up on Baylor, 62-0. Tailback Hodges Mitchell rushed for 131 yards and scored three touch­downs. Applewhite was 26-for-37 for 333 yards and three touchdowns before leaving late in the third quarter. 
No. 8 Virginia Tech at No. 24 Virginia 
Virginia and Virginia Tech square off for the Commonwealth Cup in this year's intra-state rivalry game. 
Virginia Tech's defense held Clemson to 17 yards rushing in a 31-11 rout last week. The Hokies returned an intercep­tion and a fumble for scores, recording three sacks and forcing Clemson to punt seven times. For the season, Virginia Tech's defense is yielding just 165 yards per game -the tops in the nation. 
Virginia's offense looked good in a 45-40 road victory at No. 17 BYU last week. Thomas Jones ran for 210 yards and scored two touchdowns. · 
"I've been telling folks all season Lhat this is a great back," Virginia coach George Welch said. "It's not that the HYU defense is weak, just that he makes people miss. He's just a great back." 
Virginia has won five of nine meet­ings with Virginia Tech in the 1990s, including the last two. 
Slate 
.... . Peno state{5 ~o
. s • •· ·.. Florida (3) . +n .•· 4-0 
. O 4 
x 5 · 
··· 6 .. ,7 
8 
· 9 
JO. . 11 ' 12 .. 13 
'II~: · 
·· ..•16 
·17 
18 
. 19 ·· 20 . 21 
·· 22 
23 24 25 
•.•• ,1,.59\ 
1;623@'· 
,,soil•·.·.··· 
1,447
1,~3 
1,273 
1;255 1,153 1,052 
l;D5D 
1,036 
885 
853 
676 
568 
513 
451 
408 
344 
318 
288 
204 175 
158 
otlier tearns:rrtciiving votes: Stanford 142; 
. use 140; Wisconsin 138, BYU 94, Maryland 21, · · Mississippi 27,. UCLA 25, Wyoming 21, Southern Miss.14, Utah 14, Minnesota J2;.Alt Force 9 
M!chlgan.1; ······ 4"9 Texas A&M. ·a,o Nehrasta 4~0 Tennessee ii · · 2~t . Virginia Tech ft) 3•0 · Georgia Tech 2-1 ~eorgla 3°0 Purdue 4·0 Ohio state 3·1 KaMas state 3·0 
~~=!gan State !:~ 
Mississippi State 4•0 Marshall 4·0 Miami(Aa,} 2-2 East Carolina 4,0 Arkansas .. 2-1 Alabama · 3-1 Syracuse 3· 1 Oldahoma 3·0 Virginia 3-1 Oregon xv 3-1 


Purdue at Michigan..........11 a.m.• ESPN Virginia Tech at Virginia....5 p.m., ESPN2
around 
Illinois at Indiana........... 11 a.m., ESPN2 Alabama at Fforida........ 6.-30 p.m., ESPN 
Wisconsin at Ohio St... .....2:30 p.m., ABC Air Force at San Diego St..8 p.m.. , ESPN2
the dial 
Friday, October I , 1999 
the inside edge • 
records: 1-3 
A.P. rank: NR coach'•s poll: NR
.,, .,, 
• 
records: 3-0 
A.P. rank: No. 23 coach's poll: _No. 25 
EVEN 
Series Record 
Notre Dame leads Oklahoma 
7-1 
• 
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER quarterbacks: Heupel has defensive line: Sooners 
passed for t 1 touch-return nine letter-win­downs this season. ners but lost leading Jackson has thrown tackler Kelly Gregg. 
more interceptions than The Irish return everytouchdowns. 
letter-winner from 
• 
t.998. 
running backs: Neither team has run the ball linebackers: The return well this year. Fisher • ofNicks -plus and Driver have more Harrison, Denman and potential than Thorton. Boiman -gives the 
Irish four solid line­backers. 
receivers: Jackson. Woo/fork and Daniels combine to make a dan-secondary: The Sooners gerous trio, but Nelson, return a pair oftop cor-Hunter and Brown are nerbacks, although 
just as deadly. they lost both safeties to graduation. The Irish secondary has respond-
offensive line: The 
ed well when chal-Sooners are deep and lenged by top passing experienced along their teams and faces anoth­
•
offensive front. The er great passing team Irish are young and this week. 
inronsistent. 
special teams: The Irish have finally put togeth­er solid special teams 
• 
performances in 1999. Hildbold has punted well and Sanson hasn't missed too many kicks. Fergusen made just 33 percent ofhis field goals in 1 998. 
• 
coaching: Stoops has led a team that has been down in the '90s to a 3­
o record in his first season. Davie is I -3 in his third season at the 
most famous football school in the country. 
Intangibles: The Sooners 
EVEN are looking for respect while the Irish are hop­ing to stop their losing streak. Both teams are highly motivated. 
page 7 
EVEN 
Overall 
This game could be a blow-out for either team. If the Irish come out as fired up as they should, the Sooners don't stand a chance. The extra week should give the Irish the advantage. If the Sooners passing game, however, remains as potent as it has been in the past three games, distaster could be in the cards for the Irish. 
IRISH EXCHANGE 
Big Ten might have been better choice 
Dear Big Ten, 
This lelter is in response to our decision last winl11r not to join your conference. Looking back on the decision, we realize it was a foolish one. We'd like the conference to reconsider in light ofsome developments in the past few months. 
First, we gave 
0 our student body way too much credit. Silly us, we fig­ured that they'd Anthony bP able to Blanco express thP-ir anger more 

football
constructively 
columnist
than the sorry display they've given us these past few weeks. If they could just unite and express their feelings with mass riots as well as the Michigan State students did during last year's Final Four, we'd be set. You have to give us credit f'or trying though; our studnnts have managed to show their hatn~d for their supposed foot­ball team and coaf'.h on national trlevision. 
We might have also overestimated our football team. We figured that only an average Irish team needed a conference's assistance-with the sponsors to secure a bowl bid. Boy, were we wrong. It seems that a sub­par team needs the help even more. Though we used to set our sights on a National Championship each sea­son, I think we're better suited to stick to the Alamo Bowl or the Micron/PC Bowl. 
With such a "young" tllam, these bowls are probably the closest we'll see to playing on New Year's Day. Which brings me to another reason that joining the Big Ten would really help us out. !lead coach Bob Davie was quotod after the Michigan State game, saying. "I don't think I'm bursting anyone's bubble, we'rn a young football t<'am with a tough schedule and we're sitting here at 1-:t That's tho reality." 
Maybe playing in the Big Ten changns one's perception of reality, but it semns to work for your teams. "Youth" hasn't stopped teams like No. 12 Ohio Stat11 or No. 14 Michigan State. The Buckeyes lost live All-Americans from last season while State lost 11 senior starters. Yet Spartan head coach Nick Saban boast,~d returning 42 lethmnen in his most experienced team at Michigan State. For somo reason, although we returned just five fewer (37), wo seem lo have a much dif­ferent outlook. 
But then again, a tough schedule will do that to you, as Davie stated. Hopefully, this is not indicative of Notre Dame's schedules historically. But just in case, we feel it would be in the best interest of Notre Dame to join a conference in which the com­petition would be just a little "soft­er." \'Vhy the Big Ten? Well, it seems to have worked for Joe Tiller and Purdue. 
Afttll' all, Tiller started his head coaching position the same time Davie did here in South Bend. Yet Purdm~ is 4-0 this season and riding a 10-game win streak -including a win over Kansas State in last year's Alamo Bowl. Hopefully the confer­ence Jump will allow Purdue's suc­cesses to rub off on us. 
By the way, we'd really appreciate it if the conference actp,d quickly. Playing teams like Oklahoma could do a lot of damage to us. How can first year head coach Bob Stoops start hL-, tenure with a 3-0 mark? llow can this team that has spent most of the '90s in obscurity think they can turn Sooner football around? 

Maybp, its simply because they believe they can. "We've proven to ourselves, more than anything, that we can play with anybody," line­backer Brandon Moore was recently quoted as saying in The Oklahoma Daily. 
That's not the attitude that a team who decides it can't smash the ball through on third-and-1, then punt on the same yardage on fourth do'WTI for the same reason, when it needs a touchdown to \\-in in a game's closing minutfls. 
And that's certainly not the atti­tude of a student body who feels the middle of a home football game is the best time to express how much they hate their team and its coach­es. 
We'd like to think that Notre Dame can return to its winning ways on its own. After all, we're supposed to be different and, yes, better. But given the past few weeks. maybe we'd be better off as a member of the Big Ten than as an independent. 
Sincerely, 
Notre Dame 
Oklahoma lo·oks for respect against Notre Dame 
The OU football win Saturday over Louisville was not impressive, but it did not have anything to do with the way the Sooners played. OU played a well-disciplined game and showed they can win on the road. It was the two moron commentators that made the game a joke. 
The Sooners deserve more respect than what they received Joshua Coats from the two Fox Sports Net com­mentators during OU's 42-21 spanking of the Louisville The Oklahoma Cardinals. The commentators 
Daily
called OU the Oklahoma Boomer Sooners the entire game. Every 
time the Sooners made a good 
play, they kept saying "Oklahoma is putting the 
Boomer back in Sooner." It was ridiculous. 
In addition to those idiotic mistakes, they pointed out a different OU coach every five minutes and said it was running backs coach Cale Gundy. One minute Gundy was sitting in the press box and the next minute he was standing on the sideline. 
The commentators made more mistakes in one game than the entire OU football team made all of last sea­son. I did not know whether to laugh or get angry and yell at the television, so I found myself doing both. 
Those two morons are not the only people who have not given Ou enough respect this year. Although the Sooners were ranked higher than Louisville, the Cardinals were favored to win. This wep,k is the same. Notre Dame is favored to win by six Saturday, which makes no sense. 
If anyone would have told me three weeks ago that the Sooners should be favored against the Irish in South Bend, I would have laughed at them and told them they were an idiot. 
Both teams have been surprising this year because the Sooners are undefeated and ranked 23rd in the nation. They have the No. 1-rated offense in the nation averaging 536 yards and 44 points per game. Notre Dame has lost three games and has slipped off of the polls. 
There is not a doubt in my mind, after watching the Sooners play their first three games and watching a couple of the Irish losses, that OU should be favored Saturday in South Bend. 
Josh Heupel has not received as much credit as he should either. This might sound a little crazy, but if Heupel leads OU to another victory Saturday against the Irish and throws for 400 more yards and four touchdowns, he should be considered at lflast a minor candidate for the Heisman Trophy. 
llcupel is the No. 3-rated quarterback in the nation and has completed 71 percent of his passes for 1190 yards. He is leading the nation in touchdown passes with 13. 
Realistically, he probably won't come close to win­ning the Ileisman because there are a lot of great col­lege players who have had great careers at there schools. This is his first season playing for a Division I-A school and people are just now hearing about him, but he should at least be mentioned with the candidates. 
Although OU is ranked 23rd in the nation and Heupel has been named the Big 12 Offensive player of the week for the second straight week, the Sooners need to win Saturday in order to continue to gain the respect they deserve. 
--------·--· 

! I ­
I 
I 
I 
I 
! 
Beginning in SeptemberJ UNO.com wiU o.f·fer a subscription service called the Irish Insider. 
The Insider will feature: 
• 
Bi-Weekly Bob Davie Column 

• 
Game Analysis 

• 
Player Diaries 

• 
Previews 

• 
Video Playbook from the Coach's Edge 

• 
Exclusive Irish Features 



Also included in the Insider Package: 
• 
Weekly Ticket Giveaways tor Football and Men's Basketball Games 

• 
Big East Tournament Ticket Giveaways 

• 
Bowl Game Ticket Giveaways 

• 
Discounts and Coupons for the Notre Dame Online Store 


Become an Irish lnsiderl! 
Sign up to become an Irish Insider and receive a Notre Dame 1t-shirt! The first 500 subscribers will receive a Notre Dame football yearbook! 

-
llfl&CDJS 
Domino's Delivery 271-0300 

Store Hours: 
Sunday -Thursday 11 am -2 am 
Friday & Saturday 11 am -3 am 
.. 








