
---, The toys are back in town 
When it rains, it pours
Disney';; sequel to the computer-animated Recently, NewsCenter 16 acquired the high-tech 
Thursday
classic is both a big hit in the box office and Doppler 16 radar system to aid in predicting 
with the critics. 
the South Bend's weather. Will it help? 
DECEMBER 2,
Scene . page 13 
Viewpoint . page 11 
1999 

THE 

VOLXXXIII NO. 61 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 



'Access Denied': Disabled students discuss challenges 
JOE STARK/The Obseiver Yasmin Voglewede talks to a group of students about her experiences as a disabled student In a forum entitled "Access Denied." The forum was sponsored by tfle Multicultural Executive Council. 
-----====================================================================================== 

l\y KATE STEER 
Assistant New, Editor 
ll lakes a lot of r.ourag,i lo be difforent. 
l;uur wo1111H1 sharod their stories of !wing <lifTcrnnt an<l living with disabilities Wfld1wsday night in a stm1inar Pntitl!,cl "J\r.cnss Donicd." 

Yasmin Voglflwede, a Notre , Dame senior PLS and Spanish double major, said slrn has learned a lot from her cxperi­nncri as a physically disabled student. As a panelist for a nnw diversity program includ­ed in freshman orientalion, Voglcwcdc has had the oppor­tu niLy to Leach others about differcmces. 
"What I want Lo dn is go out there and fight for people's rights," said Voglewcde, who hopes to go lo law school. 
Christina Gilmorn, Miss Wheelchair America 1999, was also prnsenl lo discuss the issue. Gilmore, who is now an assistant dnan of' a small col­lege in Texas. became interest­1HI in advocacy of disability issues when asked about peo­ple's perceptions of her as a white woman. 

"Whnn I go down the street or thn sidewalk or when I am in tlrn storn, people don't sec nm as a while woman: they see woman, and said she started to mn as a disabled woman," she pull away from people because said. she thought others had a nega­
.Jamin Przybysz. a first-year tive perception of her. graduate, stuchmt in sociology, "I know I have power lost her hearing after a tumor because I have been through was discovered on her auditory this," said Przybysz. "Now nerve at thn beginning of her when I see people with disabili­frnshman year of high school. ties, I don't pity them, but I still 
"I dreaded the day that I don't recognize the power in would wake up deaf," she said. them." She thought she would not be Przybysz has no trouble able to be happy as a deaf speaking, but she utilizes tech-
SMC announces new parking lot, policy 
By NELLIE WILLIAMS N~ws Writer 
After four monlils of confu­sion with parking options, Saint Mary's has a new park­ing lot and a n1iw parking poli­cy. 
The new lot is located next to Hcgina llall, where the ten­nis courts used to be. 
"We're going to treat it just like the Le Mans lot," said Keith Dnnnis, vice prosident of finance and administration. 
Policies for the new lot are "subjoct to modification," Dnnnis said. 
The new policy extends the time students am allowed to park in Urn Lu Mans Hall and Regina Hall lots by one-half hour in the morning. Students can use the lots from 5:30 p.m. to 7:30 a.m. 
The new parking hours begin immediately. 
"The purpose of doing that is because student teachers and nursing students have prob­lems getting out [of the lot] by 7 a. m. It creates a problem for thorn because they don't have to [leave that early]." Dennis said. "This will make it more useful for students who have off-campus activities." 
However, overnow parking at Angela is still a problem. 
"We're probably going to move Lsome) College vehicles from Angela to Regina," said Dennis. 

nology and the help of others to hear. In her classes, some­one types lectures onto a lap-· top screen so she can read what is being said. 
Lori Miller, a 1997 Notre Dame graduate and current student at Western Michigan University, spoke of her experi­ence as a blind student and the barriers she encounters. 
"For people who are blind or vision-impaired, accessibility 
STUDENT SENATE 

Senate elec,tions date changed 
election date for senators to By FINN PRESSLY 
March 1 to allow more time Assis1anc News Editor 
for turnover procedure. 
"This is our way Ito ensure 
Student Senate passed a that) when people walk in flurry of amendments in a here they know what they're desperate race to keep quo­doing," said Welsh senator rum before adjourning for Candi Marcum, citing prob­semester lems that arose from unfamil­break. 
iarity with the Hoard of 
At the Trustees report earlier in the 
heart of year. the agen­Keough senator Brian da was a O'Donoghue cautioned the package of senate against voting in favor legislation of the amendment, however. aimed at "This precludes anyone run­smoothing ning for [Residence Assistant] the transi-Palumbo from running for Senate," he tion peri-said. "I think some of the od for new senate members. finest people we have in this 
The first of the amendments community are those that proposed moving back the apply for RA ... You're cutting 

isn't an issue of physical barri­"Everyone has something to ers, but in obtaining informa­contribute, and the key is to tion: street signs, magazines, overcome the limits that are fliers, advertisements of social set. I have to find an alterna­events -I miss out on a lot of tive method or media to obtain these things," she said. information," said Miller. 
The panelists agreed that "The key to maintaining sat­their experiences, though diffi­isfaction and happiness is cult, have given them insight being able to go where I want and strength to make positive when I want," she said. change in the world, especially Accessibility and accommoda­in people's perceptions of them and public accessibility. see FORUM/page 4 
out a huge portion of the University." 
O'Donoghue also pointed out the relatively low representa­tion of seniors on the senate. 
Marcum, however, felt that senior representation had lit­tle to do with a choice between the senate and hall staff. 
"A lot of people move o,ff campus, and there's only one off-campus spot, so there's 40 to 50 percent of the class gone," she said. "Moving the election back isn't going to make anyone stay on cam­pus." 
She added that RA candi­dates are find out whether they have been hired two 
see SENATE/page 4 

-~------.........-----.--.. -:-----;-,._.....-,-------­
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Thursday, December 2, 1999 
INSIDE COLUMN THIS WEEK AT NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 



Retreating to euphoria 

Like so much of what we experience here at Notre Dame, the NOE retreat is gold-encrusted and touted as one of the best of its kind, not only here, but anywhere. Unlike many of the other aspects of Notre Dame -dining hall food, financial aid poli­cies, diversity -this one actually lives up to expec­
A.J. Boyd

tations. 
I am a veteran of retreats of all sorts: spiri­
assisant 

tual, leadership, environ• 
viewpoint

mental, general bonding 
editor 

... you name it, l've gone on it. I even organized a couple. So when ii was suggested I go on thL'i "phenomenal, life chang­ing, one-of-a-kind" retreat, I figured I'd be in for a nice weekend, but nothing I hadn't already seen. I was accepted the first time I applied. for the Palm Sunday NDE this last spring. 
As I came back from a spring break ruined by funerals, I contemplated canceling my par­ticipation on the retreat: With term papers, finals and seminary visits, I thought I had no time for a weekend away. Some fri,mds con­vinced me I could use the break. I've rarely been so thankful for free advice. 
Once on the retreat, it seemed to be shaping up as very good but not spectacular. Lots of good people on the retreat team, a young and energetic priest whom I respect and partici­pants open and willing to be enlightened. Yet I still had my reservations about adjectives like "phenomenal" and."life-changing." 
Then it happened. A single moment of unex­pected power and swrituality comparable to only one or .two others in my life. Something that I'd never seen on a retreat before, some­thing that could have been tailor made for my needs at that very point in my life. From then on, the rest of the retreat was truly unlike any other, a de facto once-in-a-lifetime type of experience. The days following found me in a spiritual euphoria that assured me that God was working in my life and there was still hope in this world. 
Everyone always says, "You go on an NDE when it's your time." No kidding. If ever I'd had a time when I needed the NDE that was it, and I never would have known it if I hadn't gone at the urging of friends. So now I'm urg­ing you. As soon as I got back.I decided I would write an Inside Column about it when it was time again for applications to be due. 
From some aspects of the retreat, I am con­vinced it is better suited for upperclassmen and possibly sophomores late in the spring semes­ter. (I'd tell you exactly why, but that might ruin some of the fun of the whole experience, so you'll just have to take my word for it.) Seniors especially should start applying now to be sure they get to go before they graduate. Every year there are only five NDE retreats: two in the fall and three in the spring. The deadline for the first one next semester is tomorrow -Friday, Dec. 3. Not everyone gets accepted the first time they apply, so start now! 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Josh Bourgeois Mike Vanegas Macrhew Smith 
Graphics Sam Derheimer 
Katie Kennedy 
Sports 
Production Kathleen O' Rrien 
Mark DeBoy 


Viewpoint 
Lab Tech 
A. J. Royd Joe Stark 

The Observer (USPS S99 2-,\000) i, published Monda}· through fricLy except during exam and vacalion period,. The Observer rsa member of ,he · A.uoci.ued P,~ss, All ceprodu,.;.rion righrs :ut' tesc:rvcd. 
Thursday 
. 
Lecture: "Urban Space/ Ui:ban Culture," Maura Nolan, 614 Hesburgh Library, 3:30 p.m. 

. 
lecture: "Women Holocaust Survivors," Margaret Feinstein, 7p.m., Haggar Parlor 



Friday 
. 
Recital: Student Chamber Music Recital, Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum, 2 p.m. 

. 
Booksigning: Father Theodore Hesburgh, Hammes Bookstore, 3:30 to 5 p.m. 


Saturday 
. Conference: Celebrating Ralph Melnerny, McKenna auditorium, all day 
. Performance: 
"Christopher's Christmas," o· Laughlin Auditorium, 7 p.m. 
Sunday 

. 
Concert: "Dimensions in Jazz," Notre Dame Jazz Band, Band Building, 3 p.m. 

. 
Dinner: Annual Madrigal Dinner. Regina Hall Auditorium, Saint Mary's College, 2 p.m., rcserva­tions at 284-4626 


Compiled from U-Wire reports


OUTSIDE THE DOME 

Commission seeks cause of bonfire accident 
AUSTIN. Texas "I would not expect them to be
''The overall objective is 
The construction executive head­technical experts," Linbeck said. ing the Aggie Bonfire investigation "lt will be a commission whose
singular in character -it is 
will appoint a commission to evaluate judgment, expertise and competence the cause of the collapse by to find out what caused will be used to evaluate the work of Wednesday. technical specialists." 
the Bonfire to collapse. " 
Friday, Texas A&M President Ray While Linbeck said he does not yet Bowen named Leo Linbeck Jr.. chief Leo Linbeck Jr. know what leads the commission will executive officer of Linbeck pursue. he noted that the commission 
Linbeck Construction Corp.

Construction Corp., chairman of the will hire specialists to analyze· and commission that will formally investi­evaluate evidence from the collapse. gate the Nov. 18 accident that killed Bowen by March 31. The commission will then review the 12 people and injured 27 others. "The overall objective [of the com­specialists' findings and determine 
Linbeck was chosen by Bowen mission] is singular in character -it what caused the accident, he said. because of his "reputation for integri­is to find out what caused the Bonfire "There are so many people that ty and openness and his vast knowl­to collapse," he said. would benefit from the truth," edge and experience in various Linbeck said Monday he will Linbeck said. "We would like to find it aspects of construction," according to appoint four people to the commis­as soon as possible." a statement released by Texas A&M sion by Wednesday evening. He Lane Stephenson, spokesman for University. added that the commission. which the A&M Office of University 
Linbeck is responsible for selecting will be funded by Texas A&M, will Relations, said Bowen wanted the the other members -0f the commis­consist of "generalists," not special­inquiry into the incident to be inde­sion, which will report its findings to ists. pendent of the university. 
1,500 students protest WTO 
SEATTLE 

The largest University of Washington protest in recent memory left campus at 9:30 Tuesday morning to walk downtown. The group of approximately 1500 students wishing to register their displeasure with the World Trade Organization looked impressive as it stopped traffic in both directions across University Bridge and down Eastlake Avenue. It was dwarfed, however, by the AFL-CIO rally, which filled not only Memorial Stadium, but the grounds of the Seattle Center as we_ll. A group of about twenty students from MEChA, an organization of Hispanic students, wore black clothes, red bandannas and face masks to demonstrate their solidarity with Mexico's Zapatista. "[Our masks] are not to hide our faces, but to show that exploitation has no color," said Randy Nunes .of MEChA. Despite their militant appearance, the mem­bers of MEChA and the rest of the UW marchers insisted they hoped for a non-violent demonstration. 'Tm down for the duration," said Ernesto Ricks, who was headed downtown with the march, and planned to stay the day. 

15-year-old enjoys grad school· 
COLLEGE PARK, Md. 

Sophia Saeed is plotting her educational history: "I went to kindergarten, first, skipped second, [then attended] third, fourth, fifth. Then, I went to MC ­Montgomery College -when I was 10." That's 10 years old. No middle school. No high school. This Gaithersburg girl graduated from Montgomery College two years later with an associate's degree. She never took the SATs, but placed in the genius category with a 210 IQ, about twice the average score. She earned her bachelor's degree in behav­ioral sciences in 1998 at the University of Maryland, University College. That diploma sealed her place in the history books as the youngest female with a bachelor's degree this century, her father said. She was 14. Saeed, a University College student, will turn 16 on Monday, but, she laments, there'll be no driver's license until January. She's short, 5-foot­one or so, with minimal-to-no makeup, a bright smile and shiny dark hair that swings with her dart­ing eyes. She looks far older than 15. easily blending in with the 20-somethings nearby. 

LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

AccuWeather.,forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeathe~ forecast for noon, Thursday, Dec. 2. lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
•"o 30• {),-­

70• FRONTS,
.........
............ .............. 


CO 1~ AccuWealher, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Pra,.ur•: , 
® © DCZJ~mJ~[:]] 0½1'~-¢.i~ 
High Low Showera Rain T-atotm11 Flurrlea Snow Ice Sunny P1. Cloudy Cloudy VIIIA.:!IIK.ICfflttlldPf'flss 
Atlanta 65 32 Fredonia 47 23 Philadelphia 47 21 ~~~~~u (f ~ ~ Boston 44 25 Houston 75 58 Seattle 47 44 
,,,.,, '"'"'"' . ·.· .. ·.:.·.:: --­

Buffalo 45 21 Las Vegas 62 41 St. Louis 60 42
Showers T•s1orms Rain Ffl.lfries snow Ice Sunny Pt, Cloudy Cloudy Chicago 48 35 New York 47 •26 Tampa 71 40
Vis A.ssociM•d Prass GmphicsNet 

Dallas 67 54 Orchard Park 45 21 Wash DC 49 25 


Thursday, December 2, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
CORRECTION 
Monday's issue ofThc Observer incorrectly reported that snnior Kathlcim McCann is anorexic. She is bulimic. 
The Ohsermir apologizes for the error. 


Do want to make $70,000 a year? 
Why? So you can retire to the Caribbean? 
Why not go immeadiately by volunteering there after ~raduation? 
Returned volunteer Sean Maurer '95 will discuss opportunities to teach at Mount Carmel High School in Belize 
Room 217 Debartolo 

6:30 PM Monday December 6th 
For more info email maurer@bases.com or visit http://www.belizeweb,com/MCHS/index.htm 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 


By KATIE MILLER 
News Wrircr 
College president Marilou Eldred discussed the Master Pla,n and the smoking policy with Board of Governance mem­bers Wednesday night. 
"Right now the biggest thing on my plate is the Master Plan," she said, explaining primary changes that will occur as a result of on the campus renova­tion project. 
"The first three major plans are the welcome center, the new clubhouse, and the Regina renovations," said Eldred. 'Tm really excited about Regina." 
Eldred stressed the impor­tance of having students on Master Plan committees, which include members of the Board of Trustees, faculty, staff and students. There has been a lack of student presence on these committees thus far, however. 
"The one thing I plea for is to have students on the commit­tees for the Master Plan," said Eldred. "I would really appreci­ate seeing more students on the committees." 

Eldred also spoke about the progress of'the committee draft­ing a proposal on the smoking policy, which could prohibit smoking on all campus grounds. 
"It is my understanding that the proposal will be ready by the end of the semester," said Eldred. "We will then need to approve it, and it will be imple­mented in June." 
Finally, Eldred stressed the importance of the student voice at Saint Mary's. 
"I really want to hear from people. Whenever my door is open, please drop in," she said. 
In other BOG news: 
. 
This week is History Week. Margaret Feinstein will lecture on "Hannah's Prayer: Jewish Women Holocaust Survivors in Germany after World War II" on at 7 p.m. today in Haggar Parlor. 

. 
The last date for donations to Project Warmth has been 


extended bocause of lack of par­ticipation, said charity program volunteer Hose Lutzka. Coats and other winter clothing can be deposited in the donalion box near the drinking fountain in the LeMans lobby. 
. 
Nine Saint Mary's students plan to attend the Black Leadership Conference at Texas A&M University in College Station Jan. 20 through 23. Students have asked all depart­ments for donations to help with expenses. The board tabled its decision to help students attend­ing the conference until needs are further specified. 

. 
Bridget Heffernan outlined the election dates for the 2000­2001 student body president and vice president. Platforms are due Jan. 24, campaigning starts Jan. 27 and a "Meet the Candidates" forum will be held in the evening on Jan. 27 in Haggar Parlor. Jan. 31 will be election day. Run-offs will be Feb. 2. All Saint Mary's stu­dents, including seniors, can vote. 




Presenls: Miss South Bend-2000 
A Scholarship Preliminary to Miss Indiana-Miss Amel"ica 
To be held on April 15, 2000 
• 
No financial commitments 

• 
No sponsorship requirements 


Eligibility Requirements 

• 
No experience necessary 


• 
Attend school full-time(minimum 12 credit hours), work, or reside in Indiana 

• 
Must be 17 years old and a high school graduate • 25th Birthday is after 6/1 /00 

• 
United States Citizen 

• 
Good Moral Character 



Deadline for completed application is Feb. J5"' 
Visit our website at: www.miss-south-bend.com 219-258-5883 southbend2000 a.hotmail.com 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents George Frideric Handel's IWESSIAH University of Notre Dame Chorale & Chamber Orchestra 8:00 p.m. Thursday, December 9, 1999 Friday, December 10, 1999 Washington Hall Open to the public. Admission: $6 Reserved Seats; $3 Students & Seniors Tickets available at LaFortune Box Office, 631-8128.  


I' 
''. 
' ' 
''' 

page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, December 2, 1999 
tor Cimarron Gilson. dence halls. class pass/fail by another week "If you wanted to, you could Pangborn senator Deirdre Stanford senator Curt Roberts to 14 days. put all of Keough Hall on
Senate 

Mcinerney felt the meeting highlighted potential problems Executive Cabinet," said 
continued from page 1 
weeks before the scheduled date of announcement. 
"Everyone gets a note under their door whether they get it or not. It happens in every dorm," she explained. 
The amendment narrowly passed, with chairman Michael Palumbo casting the deciding vote. 
The senate also debated the addition of a bvlaw that would request that alf potential cand.i­dates for senate seats attend an informational meeting to explain what the positions entail. 
Senators were divided on the issue. with some in favor of keeping the meeting process informal and within the dorms. 
"I think we should keep it within the halls without institu­tionalizing it," said Sorin sena-
Forulll 
continued from page 1 
tion play large roles in such freedom. 
Voglewede praised the University's efforts to make the campus wheelchair accessible. "Snow is my biggest problem,'' she said. 
"There are people here who are willing to go out on a limb and make me as comfortable as they are," she said. 
Gilmore works on reducing attitudinal inaccessibility rather than physical barriers. 
"Discriminatory attitudes are would be a good means of gauging a candidate's commit­ment to the position. 
"You're considering Senate and you can't make it to one meeting to find out what it's all about?" she said. 
Knott senator Ed Foy expressed concern that if a can­didate has a schedule conflict the night of the meeting, it may keep him from running from office. 
Off-campus senator Pat Foy explained that the wording of the bylaw was deliberately left ambiguous. 
"It says 'shall attend,' as in different from 'must attend,"' he said. 
Alumni senator David Zachry proposed simply getting rid of the bylaw and passing an order that Hall Presidents Council must disseminate the appropri­ate information with the resi­
prevalent. The unemployment rate of the country is eight percent, but 70 percent of the country's disabled population is unemployed," she said. 
All participants voiced opti­mism for the future of disabled persons. Technology promises greater accessibility to infor­mation, communication and transportation. The goal of such advances are to provide equal opportunities to every­one. 
"While society says we're different, we 're the same as everyone else," said Przybysz. 
The panel discussion was sponsored by the Multicultural Executive Council. 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
,4 Stud.e11t (!.Jaaml,et /huslc ~ecltal 
Pieces by Berg, Beethoven, Poulenc, Shostakovich, Spohr, and Strauls 
free and open to the public 631-6201 • www.nd.edu/-music 

De Ii: 

Thursday Nites! 
Homemade Italian Spaghetti 
BUCKBT 

Feeds 3 to 4 people. CALL AHEAD TO HAVE FOOD READY ON ARRIVAL 
1713 South Bend Avenue (at the entrance to Turtle Creek) 247-1000 

that may arise if hall senators 
In other Senate news: 

run for a second term. 
. The Oversight Committee

Incumbent senators may not be 
presented an addition to the 

as inclined to deliver an objec­
constitution giving the student

tive presenta­tion to his competition, "The Coalition Council is Roberts said. 
not represented on
Sladek 

eventually Executive Cabinet in any 
pulled the way, shape or form." resolution from discus­
Brian O'Donoghue
sion, as prob­lems with Keough Hall senator 
quorum heightened the importance of other parts of the agenda. 
In less than two minutes, the senate debated and passed two more resolutions. One outlined the content of training sessions for incoming senators, while the other extended the deadline for declaring an intirnt to take a body presi­dent the power to appoint addi­tional mem­bers to the Executive Cabinet with senate approval. 
"In prac­tice, the president 
already puts people on [Executive Cabinet] to assist him in those duties," said St. Edward's Hall representative Paul Sladek. 
By requiring Senate approval. it cuts down on the possibility of "abuse of power," Sladek said. 

O'Donoghue. "That's why it needs senate approval." 
He gave examples of repre­sentatives who are not explicitly provided for in the constitution, but who are nonetheless impor­tant. 
"The Coalition Council is not represe.nted on Executive Cabinet in any way, shape or form," he said. 
The resolution passed. 
. The senate passed an order aimed at requiring the Judicial Board to set a definite date for elections next year. 
"We don't have these dates. and we need them," said Fisher senator Philip Dittmar. "We found some clause in the consti­tution that says we can force someone to do something with a two-thirds majority." 
The senate passed the order with the required majority. 

NEW 
SANDWICH: 
LIKE I TI ) 



THE TASTY CHICKEN CLUB IS HERE TO STAY. 
One bite of the delicious Chicken Club, and you'll always crave the flavor of Its all-white-meat chicken lopped with crispy bacon, fresh lettuce and tomato end mayonnaise. And that's no problem, because now this ultra-satisfying sandwich ls here to stay at BURGER KING~ So come on in and indulge your craving. 
The Huddle • lAFort'-'18 Student Center PARTICIPATION MAY VARY. 
IT JUST TASTES BETTER~ 
www.burgerking.com 
I ''
I• 

orld 
ation 


Thursday, December 2, 1999 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
U.S. to help Russia with Y2K 
WASlIINGTON 

F1wrg-y S1icrntary Bill Hicharclson unveiled a high-tech, long-distance ttilm:ommunications link Wndnnsday to hnlp Hussiu monitor its nuclnar power plants for Y2K computnr prob­lems. Hichardson invited reporters into the top-stH'.rnt Situatinn Crisis Center at tho Frwrgy l)ppartnrnnt lwadquartcrs to witness an hourlnng nxchangn with Yevgeniy Ada.n10v, Hussia's minister of atomic cmergy. "Whilo we don't nx1rnct any major problems, there may be glitclws. Wn havn lo bn ready on both sidos," Hiclrnrdson said. reforring to both the 
U.S. and l!ussian nuclear programs. Russian computer syslnms rlnsigrrnd to shut down llUf'l!'ar r(•at·tors in an nnwrg1mcy do not. have tlw typ11 of digital tnchnology susceptible to ttw Y2K bug. said Hichardson. But some other computer systnms at thn Hussian plants could !'ail, lw aclcl1•d. 
Ireland joins NATO 
peace program 
BRUSSELS, Belgium 

lrnland plodgcd to maintain its neutrality as il joinml NATO's Partnnrship for Pnace pro­gram W1!dnnsday, vowing rrnvnr to join the Weslnrn military allianco outright. The Irish ){ovnrnmnnl signed on to the program in the­face of opposition parties. who warned the move was a step toward joining NATO itself. "No, wn do not want to b11 a member of NATO ... now or l'ornvcr," Irish Foreign Minister David /\ndrnws told reporters at alliance headquarters. "There is no question of Ireland's remaining outside, or neutrality !ming put lo a tnst ... there is nothing sinister here." lrnland is one of' the last European nations to sign up l'or Partnership for Peace, crnatnd in 1994 tn establish cooperation with neutral and l'ormnr Eastern bloc countries. 
Austria to form 
new government 
VIENNA, Austria 

Chancellor Viktor Klima will bti formally askml next wnck to try to form a new govern­ment two months after inconclusive national dnctions in which a far-rightwing party made significant gains, tlrn prusidential office said Wednosday. A statement from President Thomas Klnstil's ollice said tlrn requnst would probably h1\ madn following a meeting with Klima snt l'or Dec. 1). Klima will rnport to tho prPsiclPnl on th,~ results of' nxplorntory talks wilh llw Austrian Peoples Party and other groups. "It can be assumed that at this meet­ing. Viktor Klima. as head of the largest party, will h(\ charged with the l'ormation of a gov­nrnmenl." Klcstil's office said in the statc­nwnt. So f'ar. however. Klima has been unable to persuade the Peoples Party to join a new coalitinn. 
l.biiMii•@MtM
Dow AMEx: 
834.58 
11 •77

JONES 
Nasda,1:

+I20.5 
LJ 
3353.71 I 17.55 
NYSE 634.77 d.59 
S&P 500: 
Composite1397.72 Volume:

10,998.30 
18.65 966,500,000 
VOLUME LEADERS 

COKPAHI l'ICl'illt :,. CHMQC $ CIWiQI PJtit:E V·ONE COAP. von +::171.9!1 .,.!1175 11,50 
•7 .'1,

Mt&lllCA CJWLlN& AOL -a.uoo 7:a. HI ilflCl\OIOrT CDRP MBtT •O.H •0.86-lS 91..0S DELL COMl>U'l'ZJl D ¦LL -1. 71 ~Cl. 75tl·O ,1.,00 NOL.II INO KOLX . 17,U 1'1,5000 .$0.50 AT•1' COJlP ~ ~5.17 -4..UDO U.H CI8CO IY8T&ttSI Clt:;O -l.H -3.5600 19.U SOREL COltP coat. •1:1.57 -2.61'0 19.2!5 NCI WOllLDCOII tN WCOM ·!1.09 -4..U50 83.H JNTI.L CQl\f rnc -:I .85 -:1.3(75. 76 .6J• 
MEXICO 


Associated Press 
GIUDAD JUAREZ 
Working on tips from informants. Mexican and U,S. officials armed with sophisticated technology apparently located the remains of three more bodies south of the Texas border Wednesday, bring­ing to five the number found in u slow search for some of 100 people miss­ing in the region. 
"At this moment we have 
indications that we have 
the remains of five per­
sons," Jose Larrieta 
Carrasco, head of the orga­
nized crime unit for 
Mexico's attorney gener­
al's office. told reporters at 
the Rancho de la 
Campana, some 10 miles 
SOUTH AFRICA 

southwest of Ciudad Juarez, across the border from El Paso, Texas. 
"We're trying to deter­mine if there are more," he added. 
FBI forensic experts worked with Mexican sol­diers and ski-masked police searching four desert ranches near the border, concentrating on two near Ciudad Juarez, the home base for the Juarez drug cartel. Mexico's largest and most violent drug-smuggling outfit of the mid-1990s. 
While U.S. officials say an informant told them as many as 100 bodies might be buried at the ranches, officials now say they don't know how many bodies could be buried there. 
Mexican Attorney 
General Jorge Madrazo 
has said in several broad­
cast interviews that he has 
a list of about 100 people 
missing from l 994 to 1996 
-22 of them Americans. 
But he says he does not 
know how many of the 
missing might be buried in 
the desert. 
The searchers have been using techniques ranging from ground-piercing radar and DNA analysis to ·old-fashioned shovels and sieves to hunt for and iden­
tify the dead. 
On Wednesday, reporters 
saw investigators in hospi­
tal-type masks and gloves 
sifting sand and gravel 
over a screen near one of 
the compound's buildings. 
Mexican officials say 
some 500 soldiers and 174 
federal anti-drug agents 

are taking part in the oper­a tion. U.S. officials say about 65 FBI personnel are also involved. 
The three bodies discov­ered Wednesduy come after remains thought to belong to two victims were uncovered Tuesduy. So far, most of the remains have been fragmentary. 
"There is a skull, some bones, some boots; there are bone fragments, including some that arc small," Madrazo told the Hadio Red network in Mexico early Wednesday. Ile said the remains would undergo DNA and other analyses by FBI and Mexican experts. 
"At this moment, nobody in the world could tell you who they belong to," he said. 
World AIDS Day focuses on children 
New York, which was Clinton took up their 
A.<sociaud Press 

attended by First Lady appeal, saying these chil-
Hillary .IOHANNESBUHG 
Hod ham While AIDS activists 
Clinton and handed out condoms in about 300 city buses in Bangkok and other digni­dropped them from a heli­taries and copter in Pretoria, much of 
experts.the attention of World In a /\IDS Day on Wednesday report focused on the children ­
released 11 million of whom have Wednesday, lost their parents. U.N. offi­

"I have no idea what my father looked like. what his voice or footsteps sounded like." 
Andrew Okrut orphaned son of AIDS victim 
dren of' a lost gen­er at ion must not be lost as well. 
"We call upon all countries, all lead­ers, all business­
es, all families, all citizens to take responsibility for these children and to ensure that the disease that robbed them of their mothers and fathers docs not continue to lay waste to their futures," she said. 

Still, Dr. Peter Piot, exec­utive director ol' UNAIDS, predicted that "things will gel worse lrnf'orn they get better." 
Developed countries have largely ignored the plight of' AIDS orphans. "llad they lived in wealthy parts of North America or Europe, thnir fate would already have been declared a human trugcdy," said Namibia's Foreign Minister Theo-Bon Gurirab, who is prnsidtmt of the U.N. Ceneral Assembly. 
"I have no idea of what my father looked like, what his voice or footsteps sounded like," Andrew Jackson Okrut of Uganda told a U.N. symposium in 

cials estimated that 11 mil­lion children have already been orphaned by the pan­demic, and that the num­ber will reach 1 3 million by the end of next year. 


WWW> 
\ 1. 
'' 
'I ' I I 

Thursday, December 2, 1999
page6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Prof receives lifetime achievement award 


A Kiss is just a Kiss ... 
The AIDS virus is not spread by spread by: sexual activity with kissing, hugging, shaking an infected partner, sharing IV hands, or eating from the same needles and other equipment, container. HIV isn't spread by infected mother to fetus & mosquitoes or by donating breast feeding, receiving infect­organs, blood, or tissue. HIV is ed blood organs, or body tissue. 
How does alcohol abuse relate to HIV/ AIDS? 
Alcohol abuse impairs your judgment about who you're with and what you're doing. Heavy drinking limits your ability to communi­cate effectively. Alcohol ahuse is a major factor in unplanned and 
itself is for life­University
"It [the award] 

time achieve­become more ment," said encompasses involved in Robert achievements primarily world politics. Johansen, In 1997, he
in the field ofnational

director of the organized the 
Kroc Institute. security questions." Canadian­"It encompass­Notre Dame es achieve­conference on
Raimo Vayrynen 

ments primari­globalization
professor

ly in the field and global 
HIV infection is the  unintentional sexual activity. Heavy drinking damages the immune  
leading cause of death for Americans ages 25 to 44.  system itself--incrcasing risk of infections. Behavior associated with alcohol and other drug abuse is the leading cause of new HIV infections. Alcohol abuse conlrihutcs to the spread of HIV when individuals  
HIV-related illness and  engage in risky, unintentional sexual behaviors that they might not  
death now have the greatest  engage in when sober.  Numerous studies have documented that  
impact on young people.  alcohol abusers and other drug users are at risk for HIV through  
There is a substantial increase  both drug-related and sexual behaviors, which places their partners  
in the rate of infection as indi­ at risk.  Noninjection drugs (such as "crack" cocaine) also contribute  
viduals enter their late teens  to the spread of the AIDS epidemic when users trade sex for drugs  
and early twenties, with infec­ or money.  Sharing syringes and other equipment for drug injection  
tion rates peaking in the mid­ also transmits the HIV/AIDS virus.  
to-late twenties.  Between  Injection drug use impacts all individual--not only the drug user.  
1990 and 1995, incidence of  People who engage in sexual activity with an injection drug user  
AIDS rose nearly 20% among  (IDU) also are al risk for infection through the sexual transmission  
Americans ages 13 to 25 and  of HIV.  In addition, children born to HIV + mothers may become  
by more than 130% among  infected.  Since the epidemic began, injection drug use has directly  
young heterosexual men and  and indirectly accounted for more Lhan one-third (36%) of AIDS  
women.  cases in the US.  This disturbing trend appears to be continuing.  
Total abstinence from  !DU-associated AIDS accounts for a larger proportion of cases  
sexual activity is the only  among women than among men.Since the epidemic began, 59% of  
sure way to prevent sexual  all AIDS cases among women have been attributed to injection drug  
transmission of HIV  use or sexual activity with IOU partners.  

infection 

This message brought to you by PILLARS and Alcohol and Drug Education. 311 Lafortune• hone 631-7970 • ND.aldru . I@nd.edu 
Vayrynen. He continues to work Foundation, established in 1970 with several parliamentary and in honor of Finland's former 
Work for The Observer News Department. 
government committees in president, who served from 
Finland. 1951-1981. Call 1-5323 
XV l16rld Y,uth Zhy, 2000 
.
in 

ROME, 15-20 AUGUST 2000 
!lJear young people, I invite you to undertake with joy the pilgrimage 
to Rome ... 

-Pope John Paul II 
Campus Ministry and the Congregation of Holy Cross are sponsoring a pilgrimage to World Youth Day, 2000 for Notre Dame students from August 13 to 21, 2000. The availability is limited to 24 students. Some financial assistance will be provided for those students selected.\. 
Please note, World Youth Day will be the weekend of Freshman Orientation and Registration at Notre Dame. Students may need to make arrangements to move into the ·dorms in mid-August. 



By JESSICA DAUES 
News Writer 
Raimo Vayrynen, a senior fel­low at the Kroc lnstitute for Peace Studies and professor of government and international relations, received the 1999 Urho Kekkonen Prize Oct. 18. 
Finnish President Martti Ahtisaari presented the yearly international relations award to Vayrynen during a ceremony in Helsinki, Finland. 
"The award 
of national security questions. He is very well known throughout the world for his research and writing on the theoretical aspects of international relations." 
Since earning his Ph.D. in 1973 from the University of Tampere, Vayrynen has made considerable contributions to Finland's foreign policy. 
"While l was in Finland. I was a chair or member of several committees established by the foreign, education and defense ministries, and served in a num­ber of diplomatic missions," said 
Vayrynen has also made many contributions outside his native country. In addition to serving as a consultant for various foreign governments, Vayrynen is a pcr­manent member of the Palme Commission. 
"The Commission focused on disarmament and security issues, and developed a strategy for common international security," Vayrynen explained. 
Since arriving at Notre Dame to serve as the director of the Kroc Institute in 1993, Vayrynen 
has helped the 
governance. 
"[The conference] brought together leading Canadian schol­ars and the Kroc Institute fellows to explore the prospects for gov­erning the increasingly global­ized world," said Vayrynen. 
This collaboration resulted in the recently published book, "Breaking Cycles of Violence: Conflict Prevention in Intrastate Crises." 
Vayrynen served as director of the Institute through 1998. 
The Urho Kekkonen Prize is a highly prestigious award given by the Kekkonen Memorial 
·@-~

~INI~ ~} More information and applications are now available at the Campus Ministry Office in Hesburgh Library. 
. 

,v, >rrv --. For more on XV World Youth Day, 2000 see the official Vatican webpage at: http://www.vatican.va/ 
'I 
-
'' t 

Thursday, December 2, 1999 The Observer . NEWS page 7 
Power lectures on the importance of extracurriculars 
By KATE STEER 
A,si,rnm News Ediror 
In a study based on h~r dis­sertation research. Ann Power f'ound that not only arc iixtracurricular activities a nec­nssary part of attaining posl­s111·ondarv nducation. but they are also detP.rminunts of desire to do so. 
Tho thrnf' goals of education are lo provide occupational structure, prepare for citizen­ship and to enable social mobili­ty. said Power. Extracurricular participation increasos the chances of attaining these 
· go,ds. 
Powm· dulined extracurricular activities as those outside for­mal acad11mic and vocational struc·tt1res. not usually bearing credil. llnr study looked at school-sponsored activities, though she acknowledged that many non-school-related activi­ties .1lso play a role in the corre­1ation between participation and education. 
"In the extracurriculum, the student-teacher relationships arc more egalitarian," said Power of the additional benefits of involvement. Helationships in the extrnc.urri.cular setting are vital mentor-student relation­ships that motivate and prnpare students for education. These benefits oft1rn lead to an increased awareness of people and the world, which lead to a desire for further educational opportunity. 
"In schools with separation by ability, students are more likely to encounter disparate others," sho said. Such exposure has the sanrn effect as docs more inter­person al relationship with t1-1achers and sponsors. 

One Day Table Tennis Tournament December 4, 1999 
Sign up at the RecSports office Deadline for registration is December 3 
Z?--~ 
For more information, please call the RecSports office at 1-6100 
Friday, December 3 3:30 -5:00 pm Father Hesburgh presents an updated edition of God, Country, Notre Dame. 
HAMMES 
ph•••J ,n..631& • ww..,.ndlliook..ton.cofh: 
The drop-out rate of those who participate in extracurricu­lar activities is less than their non-involved counterparts. Power's theory is that the more time-intensive the activity, lhe more involved the student and the less time he or she will spend on activities that distract from arademic 

a source of affective support and interpersonal relationships. 
Extracurricular activities not only increase interest in contin­uing education into college, but they also increase the likelihood of the actual p4.rsuit of such education. Athletes, because they are more visible members 
of' schools 

obligations. "Students are constantly  "In schools with separation by ability,  than non-ath­letes. are more likely to  
be  evaluated  students are more likely  attract career  
publicly," Power said. "They develop  to encounter disparate others."  and academic attention and counseling.  
c1-1rtain  High school  
degrees of tol­erance for edu­cation, where  Ann Powers professor  students are often influ­enced by their  
education  is  peers to  the  

the ability to cope with stresses extent of adopting their friends" of school." Participation in ideas and aspirations. extracurricular activities "I found a positive and signifi­increases tolerance because it is cant relationship between 
involvement in one or more extracurricular activities and friends' interest in education," said Power. 
Extracurricular participation provides students with both adult and peer role models and support. Adults serve as models of achievement motivation, per­sonal validation of' talents and Skills, moral support, guidance and normative influence. 
Peers are a positive social pressure and are examples of positive attitudes toward post­secondary education, high­achievers and preparation for college. These inf'! uences are positive motivations for attain­ing college education. · 
Power's lecture, "The Hole of' Extracurricular Participation in the Post-Secondary Preparation Process,·• was sponsored by the Institute for Educational Initiatives. 
Ind. Court refuses to hear case 
Associated Press 

SAINT MEINHAD, Ind. 
Officials at the Saint Meinrad School of Theology say they are pleased that the Indiana Supreme Court declined to hear the case of a nun who lost her teaching job at the school. 
matter will stand. 
On .June 24, the appellate court upheld a decision by Spencer Circuit .Judge Wayne Roell. He had said his court had no jurisdiction in the law­suit filed by Sister McEnroy because the case delved too deeply into a religious issue. 
"My lawyer is prepared to take this to the U.S. Supreme in an Apostolic Letter that the ordination of' women as priests no longer was an issue. Several months later, Sister McEnroy was among 1,500 people who signed a letter 9f protest published in the National Catholic Reporter. 

At the time, she said the let­ter's intent was to gen11rateMeanwhile, Sister Carmel 
Co.urt,"

McEnroy, fired after publicly 
Sister 

criticizing Pope John Paul II's 
McEnroy

stance on women joining the 
s a i d 

priesthood, said she will con­
Monday.
tinue her legal battle. 
She is rep­

The Indiana Supreme Court 
resented 

declined to hear Sister 
by Ron 

McEnroy's case when it 
Sheffer, an 

denied her petition on Nov. 
attorney

19. Therefore, an Indiana 
f r o m 

"My lawyer is prepared to take this to the U.S. Supreme Court. " 
Sister Carmel McEnroy dismissed faculty member 
more debate on the sub­ject and that she had signed it as an individ­ual, not as a representa­tive of the school. 
According

Court of Appeals ruling on the Henderson, Ky. to court documents, Sister 
The nun taught Roman McEnroy was fired in 1995 Catholic theology and doc­after St. Meinrad of"ficials saw trine for 14 years at St. the published lntter. She Meinrad, where she was a sued, alleging breach of' con­tenured professor. tract and denial of due 
In 1994, the pope declared process. 
Indiana University debates golf course 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 
The Indiana University Board of Trustees delayed a vote on a controversial golf course Wednesday, a day after environmentalists and other opponents spoke out against it. 
The trustees issued a state­ment saying they will not vote on the golf course when they meet Thursday in Indianapolis. The postponed vote is one of several the trustees must take before the golf course wins approval. 
"The trustees of Indiana University listened carefully on Tuesday to opponents ·and pro­ponents of the proposed new golf course. The trustees believe they need ample time to consider these issues, par­ticularly the postitions taken by the campus community," the statement said. 
University officials say the private golf course they've pro­posed would enhance wildlife. control erosion and not harm the water supply of a nearby lake, but it still has met oppo­sition from residents of the area, professors and students. 

At the public hearing, 61 of 85 speakers spoke against the course. 
"We've got game at Indiana University," said Meredith West, an lU professor of psy­chology and biology. "Do we have the guts to let nature win this round'?" 
One group presented peti­tions with more than 2,000 sign_atures. A separate petition signed by more than 300 facul­ty asks IU to suspend talks with the developer to more closely investigate the impact. 
JU announced in August it was nPgotiating with Indiana Club LLC to design, construct and operate the private, .Jack Nicklaus-signature goll' course next to the -university's public course northeast of campus. 
Supporters of the new course who spoke Wednesday includ­ed the developPr, tourism offi­cials and the IU gulf team that would play tlrnrc. 
The course would be open to memberships for IU faculty, staff. studf'!nts and alumni. 
1' 
'' 


page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, December 2, 1999 


a collection will be taken  
at the Thursday showing  p  
December 2-4  for underprivledged  
Cushing $2.00  South Bend orphans ages 10-17, in order to provide them with the only Christmas  e n  
gifts they will receive  

g1
OPEN FORUM 

s Open to students who have suggestions about SUB programming Tuesday, December 7 7:30 Montgomery Theater 
Stress Reliever 
Take a break from your studies December 12th Sunday night, 9-12. FREE massages!!! 

Movie Marathon 
Come watch A Christmas Story and National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation 
at Reckers, 

Plus, make FREE x-mas oranaments 
SLF Auditions 
Monday December 6 
8:00 in SUB office 
if you would like to read your original work at the Sophomore Literary Festival in February, come prepared with 15-20 minutes of work to present. 

....------...-----...---.-----~--~--:"'-'·--~----------------------­
' t , •. I
.' .. 

Thursday, December 2, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Attention All HUGS Members 
Annual Skating Party Sunday, December 5th 5:00 -6:30 pm ND Ice rink (JACC) 
•Bring $1 if you want to rent skates 
•Christmas snacks provided 

Clinton speaks on wro protesters 
By MARTIN CRUTSINGER Associated Press 
SEATTLE 
As arrests mounted and 
National Guard troops 
patrolled outside, delegates 
from 135 nations tried today to 
resuscitate global trade talks 
that thousands of protesters 
had brought to a standstill. 
President Clinton condemned tho violent demonstrations. But he also warned that the World Trade Organization would have to listen to the concerns of' the masses of peaceful protest.crs who insist­ed that workers' rig-hts and environmental protection be taken into account in trade agreements. ., 
Determined to project a business-as-usual air, Clinton stuck to a schedule 'that had him touring Seattle's busy port fac·i Iities and delivering a speech touting the benefits of npen trade to Washington state apple farmers. 
Lat(1 Wednesday, he was addressing delegates from around the world who had come here !'or a world trade group's meeting. 
His motorcade traveled on city streets that had the air of a war zone -boarded-up win­dows. trash on sidewalks and other remnants of Tuesday's violent clashes. 
Clinton said the peaceful protests, including 35,000 union workers and their fami­lies parading against the WTO, were in "the best American tradition." 
"For thoso who came here to 

peacefully make their point, I welcome them here because 1 want them to be integrated into the longer-term debate," .Clinton said in his speech at 
the Seattle port. 
"To those who came here to 

break windows and hurt small 
businesses, or stop people 
from going to meetings or hav­
ing their say, I condemn 
them," he said. 
Seattle police, stunned by 

the chaos in tho streets on 
Tuesday, 
called in 200 buses and s1>.tting fires. 
Police dressed in riot guar fired pepper gas and plastic pellets into clumps of demon­strators who were blocking streets around the downtown theater where the WTO had planned to hold its opening ceremonies. 
In contrast to opening day, the WTO nurntings got undnr way on schedule on Wednesday with morn than 1,000 delegates filling chairs in a giant auditorium 
unarmed "To those who came here at the con­National vention cen­
to break windows and
Guard troops ter to
hurt small businesses, or
and 300 listen to state police stop people from going to trade minis­to help keep ters give
meetings or having their 
c a I m speeches in 
say, I condemn them."
Wednesday support of 
and to t h n i r enforce a no­negotiating
Bill Clinton • 

protest zone positions.
President

in the down­town area. Authorities also had der.lared a state of emergency and imposed a night curfew. 
The police, who saw their efforts to exercise restraint backfire, greatly intensified the pace of arrests, rounding up about 300 demonstrators by early afternoon. That total included 200 demonstrators arrested in a city park just two blocks from Clinton's hotel. 
On Tuesday, which was to have been the opening day of WTO activities, demonstrators had rampaged through the downtown area, breaking win­dows in dozens of buildings, vandalizing patrol cars and Meanwhiln, 
the real work 

of tlrn meet­ings, which are scheduled to end Friday, was going on behind closed doors. U.S. Trade Representative Clrnrlenti Rarshefsky and other trade ministers hagglod over oxactly what items would be covored in a new round of trado nego­tiations the WTO hopes will be launched this week. 
Clinton, is pushing to have the WTO includo in tho now round of talks environmental and labor issuos, seeking to address tho concerns of' U.S. labor unions and environ11rnn­tal groups, which makn up two major constituencies of' the Democratic Party. 

Do You LIKE SPORTS? Do You LovE K10s? Do You WANT To GET PAID 
AND 

EARN COLLEGE CREDIT? 
National Youth Sports Program 
Needs You! Come and learn how you can be a part of 
NYSP 2000 
Wednesday, December 1st 7:00 PM or Thursday, December 2nd 8:00 PM at 
Center for Social Concerns Classroom 
(for additional information call 876-8394) 
Benefits include: -Living in residence hall on campus -Three meals per day -Tuition credit of$1,200 -Academic Credit 
I' ' I' 
'.

,------------------------------------------------.--------------------,­
• l' 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

page 10 BSERVER Thursday, December 2, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Bo, Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EnITOR IN CHIEF 
Michelle Krupa 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogero  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Petelle  

NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen SPORTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler 
SCENE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAINT MAF.v's EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalum 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Bryan Lutz · An DESIGN MANAGER: Bret Hudat SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushto 
CoNTROLLER: Timothy Lane GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE M.\NAGER/GENERAL INF0.............. 631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING....................................631-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF ........................................ 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AsST. ME.................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. I@nd.edu VIEWPOINT........•_.......................................631-5303 
observer. viewpoint. J@nd.edu SP0RTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu ScENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MAR.¥'s........................ -....................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd,du foe daily updates of campus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the minute forecasts  movies/music for weekly student reviews  
advenise for policies and rates ofprint ads  online featutts for spe­cial campus coverage  
archives to search for articles published after August 1999  about The Obsetvec ro meet the editors and staff  


POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Ediror and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qumions regarding Observer policies should be direct­ed to Editor;,, ChiefMichelle Krupa 

Be aware of the signs you.send to n1en 
This article is not for men. It's for  feel sexy; little does she know what  he takes all of you: your bad days and  
women, to tell them how we misinter­ effect she is having on the men in the  your good days, your children, your  
pret some of your signs.  room_ All she wants is a good time and  ideas, your relatives, your friends, your  
In their relationships with women,  a little bit of attention. Or she may want  past and your future. Expect him to be  
men come in two kinds: the pig and the  sex. The pig doesn't care. He wants to  genuinely understanding and caring.  
good guy. The pig  seduce you. If you look and act easy,  Expect him to commit. Expect him to be  
only thinks about  you must be easy. Once you have been  faithful.  
how to get a girl  classified, if you say "no," you 're just  Of course fun and happiness are not  
into bed. The good  playing hard to get. Because all the pig  opposites. Of course being holy does not  
guy has a strong  wants is pleasure, he doesn't want your  disqualify having fun ­hey, being holy  
sexual drive, but  fertility or your family. Don't expect  almost requires having fun! But some­ 
he knows what is  him to be understanding or caring  times you have to choose what kind of  
important: He  (unless it is part of the game). Don't  fun you want to have because some  
looks for a person,  expect him to commit, and don't expect  kinds of fun lead to a bad life.  
because he wants  him to be faithful.  This article is for all those good  
to spend his life Gabriel  Now, suppose the pig sees her instead  women who want good relationships  
with her. Martinez  coming out of church, wearing beauti­ and a good marriage. This for all who  
Imagine a pig  ful clothes that don't reveal anything  think that to catch a good man they  
walking into a Like Arrows  except that there is a person who val­ must dress provocatively. What they get  
dorm party. He in the Hands  ues herself and expects men to value  is a pig and they make good guys into  
want sex, so he ofa Warrior  her. The pig thinks, "She's good look­ pigs. Mr. Right will not marry a slut­ 
looks for the most  ing, but to get her I would have to make  tish-looking girl. He has learned what  
pleasure for the  too many sacrifices."  self-control means; he expects you to  
least effort_ Who will be the easiest to  But suppose there is a good guy com ­ know it too.  
get into bed? You might think, "It's  ing out of church with her. The good  If I had it my way. I would hope that  
impossible to know who is easy and  guy thinks, "She doesn't look like  all of you women of Notre Dame, Saint  
who's not."  dozens have handled her: She doesn't  Mary's and Holy Cross will be like my  
But there are ways of telling, and  look like damaged goods. She looks like ·  own sisters: They know their dignity is  
everybody knows them. Is it the girl  the kind who would make a good girl­ worth more than a few sordid parties.  
wea!ing tight, revealing clothes? Is she  friend, a careful mother and a faithful  They show that they demand respect by  
very physical, touching us constantly?  wife." To this kind of woman, he is will­ the way they dress and act. So choose,  
Does she dance sexually? Can you tell  ing to commit. By the signs she sends to  and know what you choose.  
that she has been drinking? What kind  men, she shows that she values herself  
of party is this: a clean one or a dirty  and that she will not choose a few years  Gabriel Martinez is a graduate stu­ 
one? Also, is she smoking or swearing?  of dirty fun and a lifetime of bad mar­ dent in the department of economics.  
Do her friends look like they are easy  riages_  His column runs every other Thursday.  
and sluttish? The signs come down to:  The good guy wants to make you  The views expressed in this column are  
Is she sexy and hot? Now, the woman  happy. If you look and act worthwhile,  those ofthe author and not necessarily  
many not be aware of this. She wears  chances are you are worthwhile.  those ofThe Observer.  
those clothes because they make her  Because tho good guy wants a good life,  

SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 
~I=~=N~'T=.=S~EN~D=Y=o=u=:.--,~-~A=N=D=A=F=TT=R=W~E~~7 i~WH=A~T~W=IL~L=I~D~O~--, 
TO THIS CLASS, j USE YOU UP, WE'LL { WHEN MY SKILLS ALICE. WE ~ j ARE OBSOLETE?
• NEED YOU TO BE ...
NEED l'OU j i 

___, ___..,. ... TRY WALKING
HERE. ~ : 

AROUND WITH
" ! 
' c 
:, 
G 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"Be intent on action, not the fruits of action; Be impartial to failure and success ­this equinanimity is called discipline." 
Bhagavad Gita sacred Hindu text 
', .' 
, t I, 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE Thursday, December 2, 1999 BSERVER page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Doppler 16: not 
just a promotional 
gimmick, really! 
As you all lmu-nml in high school English and journalisin du.ss,is. part of' the media's job is "to inform and educate," the public. And sinc11 those folks at The Observer arc crazy onough to GIVE nrn 10 inches of whito space in which to rant evPry two w1111ks, I am a membnr (albeit a somowhal dubious rnw) of the media. So. this week I thought I would actually lake my job s11riously and try to "inform and edu· cate" you. llrn public, aboutan exciting 1inw dcw.lnpmcnt on the South Bend nows sc,inn. 
This will 111ak11 you, tlw average news­watdwr. a lot bot tor prepared for the ills that may bPl'all yuu in this treacherous world of' ours. 
The d1wrlopmonl'/ The brand new and c11rnph:t1dy uniq1w SupN Doppler 16. Yes. those wonclnrful folks over at NnwsCnntnr 16 -lhe same people that work hard tn bring you Storm Team 16 in thosn hazardous wintnr months ­have rnccntly built their OWN weather ccnwr. Thny now have Super Doppler 1(, wcatlwr radar. providing you -yes, YOU -with the latest up-to-Llw-mi11ute weather coverage. The nthcr stations don't Iii\VE Llwir own weather stations, so lhey have to wait for the ol'licial rPjWrts. 
J\pparnntly, the only way lo get around that is to build your own weatlrnr station. And the quality folks at NBC have done jusl that to scrv11 us and bring us up-to-tho-nanosecond wcalfwr info. 
Nw.v, you might want to know, how much more quickly SupN Doppler I(, bring us satellite pictures to us? When do we g11t to be the first to find out what's brewing in the brood­ing skies nver South lfond, Ind.'! Well, folks, this may be unbe­lievable. but we, the privileged people who P.xclusively watch NnwsCenter 16, grt our weather an average of arc you ready for this -not three, not four, not even five, but TEN minutes sooner than the rest of Michiana! A whole 10 minutes! That's one-sixth of an hour! By building Super Doppler 16, NewsCenter 16 is giving you weather information faster than any other station in Michiana. Storm heading your way? Tune into NBC to know when the rain is going to start pouring down 10 minutus faster than everybody else. And why has WNDO built this weather staticm'? To serve you better. 
Now, somti of you might be thinking that 10 minutes is not a long lime. You might think that getting your weather news at 6::-10 inst,md of 6:20 is not a big deal. Or you might even, heav­en forbid, think this is all a bunch of unmitigated hype and nonsensu. 
Plrase. 
Imagine yourself as a young scout in the ancient city of l'ompnii. Imagine having an angry Vesuvius looming over your doorstnp. ready at any second to deliver on its promise of a gory, lava-and-ash-encrusted death. Imagine that your local geology guy or gal had miraculously built a state-of-the-art volcano tracking system that let you know 10 minutes earlier than everyone else if good old Mount Vesuvius felt like blowing its top that particular day. Don't tell me you wouldn't like to have a 10-minute head start on the general stampede of panic? Sure, you might not get that much farther, and you might slill die a gory, lava-and-ash-encrusted death, but you would be 10 minutes further alnng than everyone else. 
My point hem is that we shouldn't really dismiss Super Doppler 16 as, say, a completely useless promotional gimmick playing on our anal-retentive need to dissect every bit of infor­mation on the state of the air and precipitation levels outside. No. Super Doppler H, fulfills a deep-seeded nred we have lo know about the state of the weather and to know about it NOW. We should thank WNDU for fulfilling this need. 
Meanwhile, make sure to check out Super Doppler 16 before lwading outsidtl. 
Nakasha Ahmad is a senior al Saint Mary's College. //er col­umn mm, et•f1ry other Thursday. The views expressed in this column art! those ofthe author and not neces.<::arily those of The Observer. 


CORRECTION 
Tlw lntwr to tlw nditor, "Wild Women Encounter Hestaurant Hadsm," that ran Dflc.1 inwrrectly al.iributPd authorship to C:rist11lml Saldru1a. The Observer regrets lhe error. 
University employees deserve our appreciation 
I know we all have our gripes and complaints about this university. hut I think, when it comes right down to it, a lot of us (admit it) LOVE Notre Damo. I, for one, am happy to be here, and I think others fnd the same way. 
Even though the administration does not always make us happy, our professors don't always give us the grades we want and this is no Utopian University, we should have some appre­ciation for the hard work and time that people put in to making Notre Dame work. 
From the grounds crew and the housekeepers to the o111cers of the University, people care about Notre Dame and make an effort lo do their best in order lo make it a great place for us stu­dents. 
· As the end of the semester approaches -even in the midst of strnss -we can all take tho time to communicatn our appreciation for the p1~oplr, dedicated to this place. Saying the two words "thank you" takes less than a secoml. but lasts much longer in the minds of those to whom you say it. · 
Maria Feilmeycr 
junior Welsh Family Hall November 30, 1999 

'Sense of family' not felt in SMC financial aid office 
On May 15, 1999, I sat in the LeMans court­yard with 300 of my fellow classmates as we made the progression from Saint Mary's students Alumnae. As with many college graduations, there were several speeches given that day, and ea.ch of these people spoke of the sense of com­munity at Saint Mary's that makes it such a spe­cial college to attend. They spoke of the commit­ment Saint Mary's has to each student. That day, . as I sat among the women I had been priv­
ileged to know, I felt two things. First, 
I folt that none of this really needed 
to be said at commencement; 
after all, we had gone to Saint 
Mary's for four years and we 
already had a profound 
knowledge and respect for 
the special character and 
sense of community cul­
tivated at Saint Mary's. 
Second, I entered the 
ranks of its alumnae 
with an unparalleled 
sense of pride. But I am not writ­
ing about my own 
experience here, I 
am actually writing 
on behalf of another 
woman sitting there 
that day. She was 
not among the grad­
uates. She did not 
receive a degree that 
day. She was in the 
audience. She was 
there as a friend. She was there as a mem­ber of the community. 
She was there listening 
to speech after speech 
about how Saint Mary's 
prides itself on its commit­
ment to studen~s. its sense of 
place, the support that an insti­
tution so small and undergradu­

ate-focused can offer a student. She 
was there thinking about her own day 
to sit on the courtyard in a cap and gown. She was as proud as I was to be a Saint Mary's student. She believed what they said. She believed what they had been saying since the first letter arrived at her house from Saint Mary's five years ago. She believed it, she was proud of it. So was I. So was everyone, I was wrong. 
So was she. 

My friend is now about to be a second-~emes­tcr senior. She carries a 3.7 GPA. She has been involved in many Saint Mary's organizations and clubs. She needs one more semester, 15 credit hours lo have her day on the Le Mans courtyard. Unfortunalely, she recently had a falling out with her parents, and they have refused to pay her final semester's tuition. I can't imagine what it is like to be in her position: to be so close to achiev­ing a goal you have worked so hard for and to have it all yanked out from underneath you. 
When she found out her parents wouldn't pay she was upset, but she was calm. She believed that the family -the community that Saint Mary's had prided itself on -would be them to assist her. She didn't expect a free ride; she only expected support, assistanc(ntnd a loan. Once again,.she was wrong. 
Since all of this happened, Saint Mary's has only responded with a dismisive attitudn and a complete lack of concern. She suspected. 
as did I as an alum, that Saint Mary's would sec that she has been a responsible and conscientious student, that she has only one semester to go, and they would find a way, any way, to help her get through this final semester. The fact that Saint Mary's could complacently stand by as a student who has given three years to them is forced to withdraw five months from graduation makes 
me ashamed. It makes me wish that I had not been so naive to believe them when they told us we were special, 
that they would help, that they cared. This is my chal­
lenge to Saint Mary's -be what you claim to be. If you claim not 
to be a beaurocratic institution where stu­dents are pushed through and nobody gives a thought to whether you stay or go then, when the time comes, make it happen. The time is here. The time is now. Find a way to help this young woman become the alumna she des­
perately wants to be. Shu chose Saint Mary's; now it's time for you lo chose her. Prove that the sense of community you claim to culti­vate was not a piece of marketing strategy to manipulate students lo attend your collegti. Make us all proud that we chose to become Saint Mary's students and alumnae. My friend and I will be here waiting, and if you still claim them is nothing you can do, I suppose you should send all your students home, board up the buildings and put an end to the game you have exacted on hundreds of unsuspecting young wonHm. 
I ask you now Saint Mary's, as onn of your own, writing on behalf of one of your nwn, what will you do'? 
Kelly Curtis SMC Class of 1999 November 30. 1999 


M 
ce 
e E 
O
THE page 12 BSERVER Thursday, December 2, 1999 
MOVIE REVIEW 

Here's another dead-end millennium movie 
By MIKE McMORROW Scene Movie Critic 
Amidst all the media and cultural hype surrounding the entrance to the new millennium. it is not a surprise to see a slew of apocalyptic, religiously-charged movies that deal with "the end of the world." 
One might hope, "End of Days"however, that film­makers would take advantage of such an interest and cre­ate something that 
is both interesting out offive shamrocks and intelligent. Alas, put all hopes 
Director: Peter Hyams
aside, because if Schwartzeneggcr's Starring: Arnold newest extravagan­
Schwarzenegger, Robin Tunney, 
za, "End of Days," 
Gabriel Byrne, Kevin Pollack and
is representative of the way Hollywood Rod Steiger is going to treat the coming of 2000, then the thinking public is going to feel cheated. 
The film opens with the birth of a child who has been "chosen" to be the mother of the anti-Christ. If she is impregnated between the hours of 11 p.rn. and mig­night on Dec. 31, 1999, she will give birth to that which will "bring about the end of the world." Satan must dis­cover her, so the forces of darkness embody them­selves in human form, taking the form of the Man, played by Gabriel Byrne. 
However, along the way Byrne has to face Arnold, who plays a security worker named Jericho who has a drinking problem. He takes it upon himself to protect the girl (named Christine, played by Robin Tunney), after an encounter with Thomas Aquinas -a former Vatican priest who understands what's about to go down on New Year's Eve. 
Viewers also get a glimpse of the Vatican's response and handling of the situation (which they understand through the book of Revelation, which is amusingly also Jericho's method of figuring out what's going on). One cardinal wants to kill the girl, but the pope insists that they simply "must have faith." 
Jericho doesn't like this. He had lost his faith when his wife and daughter were murdered a couple of years prior to his meeting Satan. As a result, he insists on taking the militant route to protecting Christine, even though the Man is completely invul­n~rable to any physical harm. And even though Jericho acknowledges the Man as being Satan, he still refuses to have any faith in God. 
Priests arc introduced along the way, as are the parents of Christine and others who are involved one way or another. the Man do.es some bombing alo,ng the way, scarring people in Manhattan. And of course, there is even a scene in which one woman is diagnosed to being a stigmatic. ("Stigmata," another member of the millenni­um-movie club, looks like a cinematic wonder com­pared to this.} 
Viewers also get a bonus dose of Kevin Pollack, who assists Jericho with his attempts to fight off the Man. 

Byrne has fun with the role (although not as much fun as Pacino had in when it was his turn to play Satan in "Devil's Advocate"). He enjoys his opportunities to sadistically grin at his lowly human targets. He plays the part with merciless, laconic wit, and it is the best part of the film. 
Arnold, however, is anything but witty, and is too dressed up in his melodramatic, all-too-serious mode of thinking that he is at all credible as a dramatic actor. 
What "End of Days" is, then. is a movie that drags and has nothing intelligent to say about its subject. It wouldn't be as bad if, instead aiming for substantive tension and drama, the film aimed more at being witty and showcased its actors' talent for being in on the joke. Only Byrne touches on this, and even he hits the right notes fleetingly. 

VIDEO PICK OF THE WEEK 

Don't swim past 'Rumble Fish' at the video store 
By JOHN CRAWFORD Scene Movie Critic 
Francis Ford Coppola hasn't been the same since the making of "Apocalypse Now." 
Sure, the director of classics such as "The Godfather" trilogy and "The Conversation" has made other films since the 1979 war epic, but he's lost his "Rumble Fish" stature as one of America's premiere filmmakers. Director: Francis Ford Coppola 
Perhaps the many 
Starring: Matt Dillon, Mickey
problems associat­
ed with the long Rourke, Diane Lane, Dennis Hopper, production of Nicholas Cage and Laurence "Apocalypse" -a F" b 
flirtation with ish urne bankruptcy, a typhoon that wiped out the film's sets, the heart attack of leading-man Martin Sheen -took too much of a toll on the Oscar-winning director. Coppola himself has said that the man who made "The Godfather" died in the jungles of the Philippines while making the war film. Since that production, one failed or overblown effort has followed another for Coppola. Nowadays. he's reduced to being a gun for hire, directing such unin­spired studio fare as"Jack" and "The Rainmaker." However, one of Coppola's post-"Apocalypse" lilms, l 983's "Rumble Fish," has been undeservedly over­looked. Featuring a strong ensemble cast of young actors, many of whom went on to become stars, it's an original and intelligent film about gangs and two 


Dillon plays Rusty James, who longs for the old days when gangs were kings, when rumbles were fought on battlefields full of glory. Rourke plays his older broth­er Motorcycle Boy, a street hero who used to lead the gangs but now wonders where he was leading them to. He is the Pied Piper without a purpose. 
The brothers roam a world that is both fantastic and fatally realistic. Shot in black and white, the film depicts a nowhere-place where steam swirls over the street as if the town is asleep in a dream and where violence erupts in back alleys and under bridges. [t's a world where poetry meets blood and broken glass, 
It's also a film obsessecj with time. Numerous shots are full of clocks; ticking timepieces hum in the back• ground for much of the movie. The soundtrack, com­posed by The Police drummer Stewart Copeland, puls­es with cymbals and drums that count off the seconds. Coppola films passing clouds and creeping shadows to show the passing of days and how the youth of the characters is slowly but steadily passing away. 
"Time is a funny thing," mumbles singer Tom Waits, playing the ~artender at the pool parlor where many characters fumble away their days picking fights and shooting endless games of stick. 
Besides Waits, the film features a strong supporting cast including Nicholas Cage, Laurence Fishburne (who is so young he is referred to as "Larry" in the Hosing credits), Diane Lane and Dennis Hopper, who surprisingly turns down the volume on his crazy and ma_nii; nature and gives a sweet, understated perfor­mance as the brothers' alcoholic father. 
With such solid actors and its depiction of a brutal yet surreal world, "Rumble Fish" is a movie that, while certainly not up to Coppola masterworks like parts 1 and 2 of "The Godfather," deserves a second look. 
Photo courtesy of 20th Century Fox Francis Ford Coppola's "Rumble Fish," starring Matt DIiion, is one of his few achievements post-"Apocalypse Now." 
brothers dealing with their memories of the past and a future rushing towards them. One of two adaptations of novels by juvenile writer 
S.E. Hinton directed by Coppola, the other being 1983's "The Outsiders" (lhe director actually shot the two films back to back), "Rumble Fish" stars Matt Dillon and Mickey Rourke as the story's two brothers. 
Not to mention logic -"End of Days" may well want to seem knowledgeable and logical and insightful, but it is purely on the surface, and it quickly loses this image. 
Absurdities abound. One priest actually points out that "666" turned upside-down is "999"! In addition, the dialogue is outlandishly bad, even for a movie that has to strive to keep viewers interested even with its explosions, weaponry and Arnold. 
In a film like this, it is the highest praise to say film ­makers at least had some understanding and conse­quent wits about what they were doing. It seems prob­able even the makers of "End of Days" would under­stand the criticisms made against it. 
l I 
'' 1' 

M 
cene E 
O
THf Thursday, December 2, 1999 BSERVER page 13 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Disney sequel toys with life lessons 
By CHRISTINE KRALY 
Sce11e Movie Critic 
Very rarely do movitis come along that both par­Hnts and chilclrnn can t>njoy. Too often, children's movies have humor and storylincs lost on adults. Disney movies, however, aim to bridge the gap !rntw<wn the age groups. /\nd with "Toy Story 2," thny have done it aguin. 
"Toy Story 2" 

''Toy Story 2" returns thn original char­actnrs from tlrn fi r s l an i ­mated talP for 

out oflive shamrocks 

morn hil11rious 
advnntures. 
Tom flanks 
Director: John Lassel!H

and Tim Allen 
l1•11d thnir Starring: Tom Hanks, Tim-Allen, 
voii:ns again KelseyGrammer,JoanCusack,Annie
to main char­
acti1rs Woody Potts, Don Rickles, Jim Varney and 
a II d Buzz Wallace Shawn 
l.igllty"ar. The 
two team up once again with Mr. l'otatolrnad (Don Hickles), Hex (Wallace Shawn) and Hamm (John Ratzcnlrnrgcr) in Andy's bedrn<>m. the wonderland where toys come alive wlrnn humans leave the room. 
Them arr. nnw faces like Jessie (Joan Cusack) and the l'rosplictor (Kelsey Grammer), who make up "Woody's Hound-Up," a television show in which Woody discovers he used to star. Mr. Potatohead has found his match with Mrs. Potatohead (Estelle Harris). and the little green army men arc back to run the bedroom. 
In the latest "Toy" tale, however, the toys encounter a multitude of problems. 
Andy leaves for cowboy camp and the toys are left for a weekend on their own. They're not prepared, however, for the r.vcflt that shakes their toyland world. It's tlw thing every Slinky or jump rope fears: the yard sale. While rescuing a friend from the rummage, Woody is stolen by an obsessed toy collector. This loads the rest of' Andy's toys on a rescue mission to save Woody from b1~ing sold to a museum. 
IL seems everyone has his or her own demons to batlle this time around. Buzz ·has a new nemesis, Zurg, who is determined to destroy the space ranger. 
Just as Buzz had difficulty accepting that he was just a toy in the first movie, Woody goes through a similar emotional journey in the sticond installment. A single rip in Woody's arm becomes a catalyst in his diminishing self-esteem. llas he become too old to be a child's friend? Will Andy want to play with newer, more exciting toys? A separated stitch becomes the difference between youth and cowboy rntirenrnnt. 
While in captivity. Woody meets Jessie and the Prospector. fellow cow persons who once starred in 
Box OFFICE 

"Woody's Hound-Up." They try to persuade Woody to leave his friends from Andy's room and ~ecome part of a toy exhibit in a Japanese museum. With pressure from these new characters, Woody is forced to remember tho importance of friendship and loyalty. 
With "Toy Story 2," Disney has disproven the age­old theory that sequels aren't as good us the origi­nals. The talented animators at Pixar and Disney are back with new characters and even sharper humor that can make a 6-or 60-year-old roll in the aisles. 
Writers and animators get a little ambitious when the story leads lhe characters on a rampant airplane chase scene. (The audience knows toys don't magically come to life, and they accept that. But can they accept a wooden cowboy hanging from an airplane's landing gear?) It seems ironic to call such a scene unrealistic, but come on, everyone knows Mr. Potatolrnad would lose• more than just a foot if he got stuck in semi-truck traffic. 
Even with the break from ani­mated reality, "Toy rt. Story 2" accom-, plishes great goals. ·"' It not only entertains ·~ but also teaches chi!-· dren. From the movie's theme song, "You've Got a Friend in Me," to Woody's journey to self-discovery. the movie teaches its viewers to love life and the people around them. One consistency within most Disney movies is a laden lesson. Just as "The Lion King" emphasized the importance of family, "Toy Story 2" makes sure audience members I.earn that their friends are their family. 

And while the youngest of viewers might love the movie for its cool animation or slapstick comedy, the mes­sage is not lost on even the olde(?t movie-goers. Parents and adults can appreciate the movie for ,., reminding them that although people age in years, they should never age in spirit. The movie makes 
them remember that Photo courtesy of Wall Disney Pictures they're all just kids at Animated favorites like Woody (Tom Hanks) and Buzz Llghtyear (Tim Allen) return heart. in "Toy Story 2." 
Ti


Walt Disney Pictures' e 

• 26-28 
"Toy Storr, 2" toppedthe box o Ice charts Movie Title Weekend Sales Total Sales for the weekend fol­lowin; Thanksgiving 
at $5 .4 million. The 1 . Toy Story 2 $ 57.4 million $ 80.5 million fllm broke the five-. 
~

2. The World is not $ 23.2 million $ 75.5 million
day Thanksgiving record with $80.5 Enoughmillion. "The World Is 

not Enough" contfn-3. End of Days $ 20.5 million $ 31. 5 million ued its strong run at 
4, Sleepy Hollow $ 18.4 million $ 61.6 million
the box office with a $23.2 million gross 5. Pokemon $ 7. 1 million $ 77. 7 million over the weekend. 
6. The Bone Collector $ 5.5 million $ 53. 7 million 
Photo courtesy of Wall Disney Pictures 

7. Dogma $ 21.0 million 8, Anywhere But Here $ 2.8 million $ 14.6 million 9, The Insider $ 2.5 million $ 22.1 million 
10. Being John $ 2.0 million $ 11.9 million Malkovich 
Source: Yahoo.com 
'. ' 
' 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, December 2, 1999 
SWIMMING 
Irish aim for double victory in Notre Dame Invitational 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
Saine Mary's Editor 
Fall semester work will culminate next week in the classroom. but the men's swim­ming and diving team will face its true test this weekend in the water. 
Entering three days of competition at Rolfs Aquatic Center, the 1-3 squad will put its fall training efforts to the test to close the first half of their season. 
"If this were class. this meet is the final exam," said head coach Tim Welsh. "The next time we put this much emphasis on a meet will be the Big East Championships." 
Men's competition will be fairly tight this weekend, with a mix of 10 returning and new teams competing in Irish home waters. Michigan State, Western Kentucky, Toledo and Wyoming all pose strong competition for the Irish, but show no clear-cut frontrunner. 
"The meet is up for grabs at this point," Welsh said. "If you look at the entry, you can't run down it and say, 'This team wins.' It's going to make life very competitive." 
The Irish are relying on consistent stand­outs freestyler Ray Fitzpatrick, butterflier Ryan Verlin and breastroker Dan Szilier to pull in points. 
But a strong showing for the Irish will require team depth as well as standout per­formances. Looking to continue consistent top finishes in the distance events, Welsh will look to several athletes to emerge in the sprint freestyles, one of the team's weak points. 
"We'll rely on two or three people for sure, but we'll really be looking to people to step up and take leadership positions," Welsh said. 
The strategy will be a simple one. 
"In simple terms? We want to swim as fast as we can in every event," Welsh said. "If we can do that, the points will take care of themselves. It's that simple." 
Posting fast swims in the morning sessions will be key for those points because of the trials and finals format of the meet. 
"You win the championship at night, you lose the meet in the morning," Welsh said. "We need to swim fast in the morning to qualify for finals in the right places." 
The undefeated women's swimming and diving squad will also seek to defend its home turf this weekend, taking on nine reg­istered teams. To keep its win strnak going, it will need to ward off strong competition from University of Wyoming and Michigan State. 
"We're not taking anything for granted, but we're excited to be swimming at our home facil,ity," said _assistant coach Kristin Heath. "This is a big meet for the men. and we're excited to be able to swim the meet alongside them. When you get more Irish swimmers around, there's a lot of excitement." 
Defending a second place finish last year, the Irish women will be forced to look to the team's depth to step up and fill in key posi­tions. Top scorers Carrie Nixon, Brooke Davey and Shannon Suddarth left campus Wednesday to compete in the U.S. Open this weekend. 
"We will have to look to some of our other women to step up," Heath said. "We're miss­ing our three major scorers, so we'll have to look to other women to step up individually and particularly in relays. But the _20 women we have swimming this weekend are ready to race." 
In the absence of Nixon and Davey, Heath will rely on Laura Shepard and Brenda Reilly to fill the holes. Allison Lloyd and Kathleen Rimkus will fill Suddarth's spot in the breast stroke events. 
After falling to the Wolverines last year, which came into the 1998 meet taperftd and shaved, the Irish will look to notch a victory this weekend. 
"We are by no means rested for this meet," Heath said. "This is a tough time of year in the water and academically for our athletes. We want to win the meet. but our primary goal is to swim fast.'' 
Following a fourth-place finish at the University of Minnesota Invite last weekend, the Irish women have already prepared to shift gears from dual meet competition to a championship environment. 
"We'd like to improve equally if not more than how we swam in Minnesota," Heath said. "It's going to be a tough meet, but we're going to come to each session pre­pared." 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. co 3 1.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds musr be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES 
FREE MONEY http://expage.com/page/ajnmoney 
LOST & FOUND 
LOST: Silver Charm Bracelet lost in middle of October High sentimental value. x3727 -Megs 
LOST 11/20 Blue Northface Coat CASH REWARD call Mimi x2735 
WANTED 
Free CD of cool indie music when you register at mybytes.com. the ultimate website for your college needs. 
Browse icpt.com for Springbreak "2000".AII destinations offered.Trip Participants.Student Orgs & Campus Sales Reps wanted.Fabulous parties.hotels & prices.Call Inter-Campus 800-327­6013 
..DESPERATELY SEEKING'' •• ZORICH #50 JERSEY •• 
Will pay $$$ for ANY #50 ND Football Jersey' (new/used, home/away) 

I am DESPERATE! Help make X-Mas special for a HUGE Chris Z fan. Call with info/offer: 4-4325 •• Chris Zorich Superfan •• 
EXCELLENT compensation for marketing college products at BEST prices.Go NOW to: http://www.akademos.com/campus­rep 
Sony Playstation to give as a Christmas gift. Looking for a good deal Call Chas 4-2686 
FOR RENT 
ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE 
HOME FOR 
ND-SMC EVENTS. 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 
243-0658. 
Looking for 1 more roommate to move into beautiful off-campus house in Riverside historic district. Male or female (currently 2 male. 1 female living there) who wants a clean, safe house and likes good music. N-Sync fans need not reply. 280.00/month plus utilities Call 
288-4517. 
WALK TO SCHOOL http://mmmrentals.homepage.com 
232-2595 or 
mmm.rentals@aol.com 
3 bdrm. duplex. one mile from cam­pus. Appliances, W/D. 503 Eddy St. 273-8332 
6 BEDRM. '00-'01 
$1200/mo. 273-0482 
room for rent 
call for info 
256-6929 
FOR SALE 
Spring Break Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise 5 Days $279! Includes Meals! Awesome Beaches.Nightlife!Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights From $399! Florida $129!springbreaktraveI. com 1 -800-6 78-6386 
Phone Cards 669min. $20 243-9361 or 258-4805 
SPRING BREAK 2000 
PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA FROM $149 PER PERSON SAND­PIPER BEACON BEACH RESORT THE "FUN PLACE"! TIKI BEACH BAR ENTERTAIN­MENT BY BOOGIE INCORPORAT­ED BIKINI CONTESTS MALE HARD BODY CONTESTS 3 POOLS LAZV RIVER RIDE WATER SLIDE HUGER BEACHFRONT HOT TUB MINI GOLF GIFT SHOP SUITES UP TO 10 PEOPLE 1-800-488-8828 WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM 
SPRING BREAK 2000 Cancun, Mazatlan, Acapulco, Jamaica and S.Padre. Reliable TWA flights. Biggest Parties & Best Packages. Book by Dec.1 & SAVE up to $200! 1-800-Surfs-Up www.studentexpress.com 
1988 Honda CRX 104K, 4 Speed. Runs Well, $750 288-3408 NEC 15' MONITOR $95 287-6459 

5 PHISH NYE tix ND Phan dying that plans fell through. Help me unload these! Will negotiate price Call 4-2677 
PERSONAL 
Gay, Lesbian and Bisexual students of ND/SMC meeting each Thurs. For info call: 
(877)631-SOUT 
High-Speed Copies, Color Copies, Binding, Fax Service, Resumes, 
Business Cards, Laminating, & a whole lot more at THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY Free Pick-Up & Delivery! 
Spring Break 2000 Free Trips & Meals. Jamaica,Cancun,Bahamas,Barbad os,Florida,Padre.Book now for Free Meals & 2 Free Trips.Book before Dec. 17 for LOWER PRICES!! 1800-426-7710 www.sunsplashtours:com 
www.thecommentator.com 
www.NDToday.com 
Babysitter needed for 4-year old, transportation required. Tues. & Thurs. 2:45-7:45 or 5:30-7:45 for Spring semester Experience with children preferred but not necessary. Call Beth at 254-9060 or email at 
BLP1975@aol.com. 
MANDATUM Need one? We've got ·em in stacks! Act now! Save time, trouble, and $$$ by using our Hotline! Bad credi­bility? No credibility? We'll fix every­thing! Call 1-800-GET-RITE and ask for Msgr. O'Riordan. 
Arthur, you are the Crystal 
Queen. and Berto is the true 
Tabasco King! Ohh! Where'd 
you go, where'd you go?! 
EL + FC = Fun, Fun. Fun 
Steak and Shake chili rules but it 
should be in a bubbling pot not that 
disgusting vat in the back room 
Chuk • You can't stop Jeff Burris even when you think you do, you actually don't becaue he just comes back to whip you 
Chas ... what's up with that guy? 
S&S Sara knows whats up 

Someday I will actually do school• work. Two weeks, tour papers, four exams to go. 
Anyone interested in gomg to the Keough Christmas Formal? Call Josh at 4-4040 He'll hook you up. 
JS, Britney's legal now. Are you happy? 
Big K in San Jose has never seen the likes of the Observer crew. 
There is way too much space to fill on this page. 
"I packed an extra set of legs and your crazy eyes." 
Good Golly, not started yet? 
We survived the 1Omph straight-a­ways of MD --scary! 
BK lost SIXTY DOLLARS on a STREET CORNER. •••Gambling.­Get your mind out of the gutter. 
Yeah. that's about what we'd expect from him. 
w

---------..-------~------------------------~---~------,-------.-------~~-----­
'' 

Thursday, Dece=n=1b=er=2='=1=99=9====================Th::::e=O::::b=se=rv=e=r=•==P=-A=l=D===A=D==VE==R=T==IS=E=M==E::::N==T===================================p=ag=e==l5 
CAMPUS MINISTRY·· 
Calendar of Events 
Freshman Retreat #26 
Friday-Saturday, December 3-4, St. Joe Hall 
Marriage P,eperation Retreat 
Friday -Saturday, December 3-4 ­
Fatima Retreat Center 
RCIA Rite of Welcome 
Sunday, December 5, 4:00 p.m., Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Rejoice! Mass 
Sunday, December 5, 4:00 p.m,, '.Sorin Hall Chapel 
Advent Lessons and Carol& 
Sunday, December 5, 7:15 p.m., Basilica of the Sacred Heart . 
Baslllca Community Choir Reh.arsal 
Monday, December 6, 7:0Q..8:30 'p.rn. Earth Science Building, Room 102 
Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #59 (F'eb,4-6) Sl,_gn up 
Monday-Friday, December 6-10, ·103 Hesb1,1rgh Qprary 
Freshman Retreat #27 (Feb. U•12l Sign.Up Monday, December 6 through Monday, February 7~ 103 Hesburgh Libra!')' Targeted Dorms: Badin, Keenan, Lewis, O'Nelll, •,: Pasquerilla East, St. Edwards, S\egfried1Walsh, and Zahm 
Campus Bible Study 


Tuesday, December 7, 7:00 p.m. Badin Hall Chapel 
Graduate Student Blbte Study Group 
Wednesday, December 8, 8:00 p.m. Wilson Commons 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Wednesday, December 8, 10:00-ib:30 p_m. Walsh Hall Chapel A spirit-filled, student led power half hour of prayer and music for all students of all Christian faith traditions 


Las Posados Celebration followed by social 
Thursday, December 8, 7:30-9:00 p.m. Meet at Hesburgh library Concourse 
Second Sunday of Advent 
Weekend Preslders at Sacred Heart Basilica Saturday, December 4 Mass 
5:00 p.m. Rev. 8. William Beauchamp, C.S.C. 
Sunday, December 5 Mass 
10:00 a.m. 
Rev. Mark L. Poorman, C.S.C 
11:45 a.m. Rev. Peter D. Rocca, C.S.C. 
Scripture Readings 
1st Reading  Isaiah 40:1-5, 9-11  
2nd Reading  2 Peter 3: &14  
Gospel  Mark 1: 1-8  

-······-·······-······-·······-·······­
The Real Y2K Problem 

by Frank Santoni, Campus Ministry [fsantoni@nd.edu] 
Several nights ago, I had a dream. I dreamt that it was several months into the future. January 1st, 2000 had come and gone. I was walking down a busy city street. Buildings were still standing. Cars still honked for attention. Planes were still flying over head. Office workers were still happily surfing Gamesville.com on com­pany time. All was well in this post-Y2K future. Or so it seemed, that is, until I turned the comer. There they were, much to my horror. Dressed in what looked to have once been well-tailored suits and dresses, a line of them stood in front of me, stretching for city block after city block. Each held a sign that explained their plight all too vividly. One read "Y2K Computer Debugger. Will work for Internet Access." Another had scribbled on her sign, "Y2K Survivalist. Need Shelter." Another explained, "Y2K Compliancy Officer and Crisis/Contingency Plan Manager. Help." Another's simply asked, "Why, 2K?~' Hundreds, maybe thousands, more like them stood waiting for their tum outside the unemployment office. I began to run, looking for the end of this line of humanity. I ran and ran and ran and.... 
I jumped up in bed, in a cold sweat. Listening to my burdened breathing, I tried desperately to get the faces and signs out of my head_ But it was no use. I had seen the future and its images were seared into my mind. What had we done to these people? They had seemingly done their jobs well, right? Prepared us for the new millennium? Everything in the future seemed to be working the way it always had. Nothing had changed from the way we live our lives right now, before Y2K, so what happened? Hadn't we focused our pre-millennium attention on all the right places? 
Maybe. Maybe not If we consider whether or not we've been getting ready for the arrival of the first days of the year 2000, then the answer is yes. Yes, we have, indeed, been focusing our pre-millennium attention in all the right places. Just make a mental list of all we, as individuals and as a society, are doing in preparation for the tum of the century. Fix computer bugs. Check. Withdraw cash from bank. Check. Stuff under mattress. Check. Stock batteries and candles. Check. Make New Year's Eve party plans. Check. ·:t's all getting done by all the right people. 
But, if we consider whether or not we've been getting ready for life beyond the first days of the year 2000, the answer has to be no. The distinction is a subtle one, but one that can make a lifetime of difference. Little attention has been paid to what this new millennium has to offer our lives beyond a flip in the calendar. Sure, we've looked back on the century and, to a lesser extent, the millennium that are about" to end, mostly in the form of a pat on the back for a job well done. But, how often have we stopped to think about how the shape of our lives could be different in the new centuries to come. It is our natural tendency to look back when we cele­brate an anniversary, to take stock of what has been accomplished, but only one in 50 generations gets to experience what it means to get the chance to live life in a whole new century. So how can we make Y2K mean more to us? 
Christian churches around the world have declared the year 2000 to be a Jubilee Year. Pope John Paul II calls it the "Great Jubilee of the Year 2000." The tra­dition of Jubilee is rooted in the Old Testament (Leviticus 25) and sets forth a blue­print for hope and renewal in our lives and our communities for decades to follow. In scripture, God declared every 50th year to be a Jubilee year, or a "a year of favor from the Lord." During the Jubilee year, debts would be forgiven, prisoners and slaves would be set free, property would be returned to its original owners, land would go unharvested, and a great feast would he held. For many, it was a year of rest, a year during which relationships were reconciled, and a year of new begin­nings. 
In our modem context, the principles of the Jubilee can be translated in many ways. Personally, we can ready ourselves to live in the third millennium by identifying wounds in our relationship with ourselves and with others that need healing and reconciliation. We need to ask ourselves what might we be holding cap­tive in our hearts that could be set free during the Jubilee Year. Through God's grace, reconciliation will lead to renewal in our lives, our friendships and our faith. The Jubilee year promises to usher in a new season of hope and justice_ Will we be a part of it? 
The Jubilee 2000 is also the context for renewed relationships around the globe in the form of the campaign for international debt forgiveness. Many of the world's poorest countries are being crushed by unmanageable debt burdens, often paying several times more in loan payments than for the health care or education of its citizens. Support for this Jubilee campaign is beginning to grow, especially in the United States, where President Clinton has promised to lobby Congress for 100% for­giveness of debts owed to the U.S. by more than 30 of the world's poorest nations. 
This Sunday many of you will be asked to take a Jubilee pledge during mass in your hall. The pledge is an invitation to all to reflect on how we might choose to live our lives, with re-energized faith, hope and love, in the new millennium. The pledge calls us to make concrete what it means to be called Christian 2000 years after the birth of Christ. You are also invited on Tuesday, December 7th, at 9:45 p.m. to a spec~al Jubilee prayer service outside the Basilica's Holy Year Doors. These doors won't be opened until Christmas Eve, but will serve as our backdrop on Tuesday night for a meditation on reconciliation and renewal 15 minutes prior to the Advent Pennance service, which begins at 10:00 p.m_ in the Basilica. 
It is not too late to fix the "real" Y2K problem. 
n 
a 
~ 
~ ~ 
C, 
~ ~ ~ 
~ 
~ 
a 
~ 
~ 
• • 
• ... 
-(f\r\APUS
MINISTRY 
. ' 

page l6 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, December 2, 1999 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Williams replaces Saban as interim head coach at MSU 
By MATT MYFTIU The State News (U-Wire) 
EAST LANSING, Mich. 

Michigan State football play­ers' mood changed from somber to excited Tuesdav afternoon with the announce·­ment that MSU associate head coach and rnnning backs coach Bobby Williams has been pro­moted to tho position of interim head coach. 
Williams replaces Nick Saban, who accepted a job as football head coach at Louisiana State University early Tuesday morning. 
Saban, who is no longer affili­

. ated with MSU, announced his decision to players· Tuesday morning. He then flew to Baton Houge, La., where he will immediately take on his new position. ln his Baton Houge news con­ference, Saban said he did not leave MSU because he was unhappy. "I was very happy at MSU," Saban said. "I was there for five years as defensive coordi­nator and five years as head coach. That place is as much my home as anywhere I've ever been." Williams will lead the No. 10 Spartans in the Jan. 1 Florida Citrus Bowl while the search for a permanent head coach goes on. Williams addressed the team Tuesday at the Clara Bell Smith Student-Athlete Academic Center. His enthusi­astic tone made the team meet­ing seem more like a pep rally. 
"I really appreoiate this opportunity," Williams said. "I've always told you guys that life is full of opportunities, and this is a great opportunity for me." 
Players greeted Williams with a rousing standing ovation after MSU interim Athletics Director Clarence Underwood intro­duced him as the interim head coach at the beginning of the meeting. 
Freshman tailback T.J. Duckett, who worked regularly with Williams in his previous role, said Williams is an enthu­siastic coach and should fill the position well. 
"He's a fun guy who brings a lot of excitement to the team," Duckett said. "He gets you going and keeps you motivated. I think he'll bring that attitude to the whole team, and we'll be ready to play." 
The biggest obstacle the team must overcome is adjusting to its coach in time for the Florida Citrus Bowl. MSU will most likely face the loser of this weekend's Florida-Alabama game, so the 9-2 Spartans will have to be at the top of their game to pull out a 10th win on New Year's Day. 
Senior cornerback Amp Campbell said the team has faced adversity all season, and this most recent dose will give the players a chance to show they can still be successful. 
"A lot of people will count us out and say we're not the same football team," Campbell said. "But we have to prove them wrong. We have to come together as a team. We're guys for four or five years, and going to see what kind of family there's one thing I want to tell we have here." you," Izzo said. "The coaches 


MSU men's basketball head can do a good job, but it's the coach Tom Izzo was also on players that play the game. And hand to lend support Tuesday. it's the players that will deter­He told the players they hold mine whether you win or lose." the fate of the bowl game in Underwood said the search their hands. for a coach is already in the 
"I've watched some of you beginning stages, but Williams said he wouldn't mind if the "interim" label were removed from his title. 
"If I get the opportunity to stay on as head coach, that would be great," Williams said. 
Williams will start preparing his troops for the bowl game when practices begin this weekend. 
Meeting Weekly 
Mix it up with 1200 others from the Class of 2000 TONIGHT and EVERY THURSDAY tor 
OD®@~LJ[1@[ru@.@ 
COLLeGe n1GHT 
SOUTH BEND'S BIGGEST PARTY 

$1COVER 
(with college I.D., must be 21) 
and lots of other stuff -for a buck, too. 
More pictures online every week at www.ACEplaces.com/heartland 
222 S. Michigan• South Bend• (219) 234:...5200 Call the Heartland Concert & Event Line (219) 251-2568 

(f)@om(!J@ • m ff 
• NEW! A Lighter, More Diverse Menu: 
Our famous steaks plus more sandwiches, salads and pastas. {Not only for special occasions.} 
• NEW! A More Relaxed Setting: 
Polo shirts, pop music, and updated Chicago pies on the wall. (And you can keep your Cubs cap on.} 
222 S. Michigan • South Bend • 219.234.5200 
next door to Heartland 
Thursday, December 2, l 999 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 



.... -~­
I' ! F 1; 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, December 2, 1999 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Anociaml Press 
CLEVELAND 
It's no secret the Cleveland Indians are in the market for some pitching help. Now, their shopping list may include a center fielder. leadot'f man. base stealing threat and Gold Glove winner, too. 
Kenny Lofton will likely have surgery on a torn rotator cuff in his left shoulder that could sideline him until next season's All-Star break. 
"This hurts. It's a setback," Indians general manager John Hart said Wednesday. "It's a tough blow. but not a devastat­ing one." 
See why you shouldn't slide into first base. kids? 
Lorton sustained the injury while diving headfirst into first base during Came 5 of the AL playoffs against the Boston Red Sox. Last week. Lofton was told by team orthopedist Dr. Lou Keppler that a muscle in the shouider was torn and he needed surgery. 
With the Indians' blessing, Lofton got a second opinion and visited renowned orthope­dic surgeon Dr. James Andrews, who confirmed Keppler's diagnosis and also recommended surgery. 
Lofton has not yet decided when or if to have the proce­dure, Hart said. 
"Kenny is now evaluating his options," said Hart, who spoke with Lofton for a half-hour on Tuesday. "He's really down about it. He really wants to play." 
Lofton is expected to make a decision in the next week to 10 days and the Indians will sup­port whatever it is, Hart said. If he opts for surgery, Lofton would be out for a minimum of five months and a maximum of seven. 
"He's going to listen to his heart," Hart said. "You can't force a guy to have surgery." 
Lofton's agent, Casey Close, would not comment on his client's situation. However, he did say Lofton, a six-time All­Star, was in Atlanta. 
While Lofton is sidelined, the Indians could use a platoon of Jacob Cruz and Dave Roberts in center or sign a free agent. Among the players currently available are Tom Goodwin and Brian McRae. 
"We may not do anything, but we're going to look," Hart said. "It's [Lofton's injury] not a full season. Fortunately, we had two guys who played there a bit last season when Kenny was out." 
Lofton hit .301 with seven homers and 39 RBIs last sea­son, but played in just 120 games because of a hamstring injury. He got off to a great 
BOOK SEARCH 
* Used, rare and out­
of-print books .. Initial cost of $2.00 
* 
Nationally-circulated ad 

* 
Success rate of 50% 

* 
Time Required: 2 months· 


ERASMUS BOOKS 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 

Lofton may be sidelined until July after surgery 


start in '99, ''This hurts. It's a Ramirez,. been willing to pay big money would expect the team to find batting .386 Seattle's Alex for a close-r. preferring to a its closer on the current roster,
setback. Its a tough blow

in April, but Rodriguez and balanced bullpen instead. As with Paul Shuey or Steve his produc­but not a Toronto's for next season, Hart said he Karsay likely to get the job. tion fell off Carlos Delgado
devastating one. " 

dramatically as well as some in the second top-flight pitch­half. John Hart ers. Cruz batted Indians General Manager As for imme­.330 with diate pitching 
We're \ookin9 for ne\'-1 ideas to
three home help, Hart said runs and 17 he has 
make LND 14 T\-\t, Bf'ST t\/t,\2-1
RBIs in 88 at-bats. He was expressed interest in several doing a nice job filling in free agent before tearing a ligament in pitchers, including Scott his right thumb sliding into Kamieniecki, Graeme Lloyd, second base in August. Allen Watson and Rich 
0 ­


Roberts, who has better Rodriguez. speed than Cruz, batted .238 "Kammy is a guy we like," with 12 RBIs in 143 at-bats, Hart said of Kamieniccki. who 
·Steering Committee
and stole l 1 bases. pitched for Baltimore last sea­Hart didn't say if Cleveland son. "He's a swing guy who would now become a factor in call' pitch out of the bullpen 
NOW FORMJNG! the bidding for Seattle super­and start. That's something we star Kon Griffey Jr., who has were missing last year." 
z 

asked the Mariners to trade The Indians are also now 
him. without a closer at'ter Mike 

?\tai>i contact 
However, Hart is approach­Jackson signed a one-year, $3 ing the free-agent market with million deal with the 
kara at 1-~:Bl or 'Sunie, at l-'3S"31 
an eye on the Class of 2000 Philadelphia PhiHies. which could include Griffey, Hart let Jackson walk 
Indians right fielder Manny because the GM has never 

Experi ·ng wi aker? 
motio 
resume 

oney 
$$$$$ 

Work for the Observer Ad Design Department 
If you are a Freshman, Sophomore or Junior with Mac skills and want to work for a few hours a week call Brett Huelat at 246-1488 or stop by the Observer office in the basement of the South Dining Hall. You will not find a better job on campus! Great Pay!! Very Flexible!!! 
P CA --'.' 
Thursday, December 2, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
and providing one bright spot in an otherwise depressing game. 

Chorney 
We learned the meaning of true class by watching Lou Holtz 
continued from page 24 
leave us without ever tarnishing 
We learned how to throw a our name, despite having his marshmallow and what it feels own dragged through the mud like to be hit. by one. We learned during an embarra.'>sing trial. that squirrols don't understand We watched as Ron Powlus 
Give away your coat. .. the coaching cliche of running endured four years of unmet "north/south." We even learned expectations and intense criti­
and Share the Warmth! what a squid would look like if it cism and then refused to tell could fly. We learned that reporters that his decision to streaks must be broken at some attend Notre Dame was a mis­point. Nine straight bowl take. appearances, 13 straight games We learned how to win with against USC without losing, eight dignity, never running up a straight wins against Michigan score intfmtionally. We learned State, 11 straight wins against how to lose with dignity again Purdue, eight straight wins and again. against Pittsburgh, 21 straight We learned the feeling of wins against the service acade­walking through the tunnel at mies, 12 straight winning sea­the stadium and seeing the 

SHARE THE WARMTH AND 

sons. emerging Touchdown Jesus All gone. while celebrating with the play­
SPIRIT OF NOTRE DAME! 

On the bright side, thanks to ers after West Virginia and 
Don't FORGET...GEAR for Sports, is Allen Rossum, we still have our Michigan. -t, streak against Navy, and we We learned that sometimes
sponsoring a competition among the 

have started another streak things don't come out the way 
'lil--' 
•;'t' campus residence ha/fs, giving acash 

against Michigan State, albeit. a they're supposed to. 
award of$1,000 to the hall which cof­

losing streak. We all dreamed of' a national ' ~ lects the most coats per capita and an Any future coaches learned a title and of ending the century :.:.J, 
award of$500 to the runner-up/ few trick plays, for example, like the Yankees. 
throwing to our tight end. Unfortunately, it didn't hap­Please visit any one of our 
We learned that no game is a pen. We learned to get over it. site locations, all eager to sure win. Perhaps no team in the Finally, and most importantly, 
country can turn a seemingly I learned and hope you learned,
accept your coat 

easy win into an adventure as t.hat no mattor what our record
donation until 

well as we can. Who else plays indicates, no matter who beats December 10 Navy that close? us, no matter what the media We learned that sometimes a say about us, we are Notre 
Center for Social Concerns • Hammes Bookstore • LaFortune big heart is better than a big Dame. Neither lossr,s nor adver­Information Desk • RecSports •Alumni Community Service body. sity can change that Neither Office * Campus Ministry/Hesburgh Library •All Residence Halls 
We saw Joey Getherall run­criticism nor scandal can tear us 
• College of Business Administration • St. Michael's Laundry 

ning up the middle with Rudy­down. No one can impersonate
Distribution Center • Bond Hall • Fitzpatrick Engineering * 

like stupidity and making plays us (although Boston College may 
Flanner Hall • GaMn Life Science Center * Grace Hall 'Law 

that players twice his size try).
School • Main Building • O'Shaughnessy • North/South Dining 

couldn't hope to make while tak­Undoubtedly, inarguably spe­
Hall • ND Federal Credit Union (all branch locations), Student 

ing hits that strike fear into the cial: We are ND.
Government Office in Lafortune 

hearts of many much larger receivers. The views expressed in this
Sponsored by: 

UNIVERSITYOF NOTRE DAME St. Mlch11el's G &&'R We saw our own Rudy, column are those ofthe author 
-

IIAMMES BOOnT0RE STUD&NTGOVERNMENT L1un~ry ·•sb·: Jonathon Hebert, go from being and not necessarily those ofThe just another walk-on to a symbol Observer. of perseverance, blocking a punt 
@@~@@~~@@@@@@@@@@44@@@@4@@44~4
3 WANT YOUR CAKE AND EAT IT TOO?? 3 
34 Live Off-Campus 3q 
q4 & q4 .. q q 
3 Get 1st month rent FREE! 3 
~ SIGN UP NOW Located near campus: 2 ~ FOR LEASES BEGINNING • 1 and 2 bedrooms ~ @ JANUARY 2000!! • On-Site Management q@ • Furnishings Available @
q q
3 Gampus View Apartments 3 ! 272-1441 §
q q
qqqqqqqqqqqqq4q4qq4qq4qqqqqqqq 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, December 2, 1999 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Cone seeks long-term contract from Yankees or trade 
A..sociated Press 
NEW YORK 
David Cone, trying to get the Yankees to give him a two-year contract. may force New York to make a decision bv Tuesdav. 
A clause in Cone's expired contract gives the 36-year-old right-hander the right to pro­hibit the team from offering him salary arbitration, a baseball lawyer familiar with the con­tract said Wednesday, speaking on the condition he not be iden­tified. 
If Cone exercises that right and doesn't sign by Tuesday, the Yankees would be ineligible to re-sign him before May 1. If Cone allows the Yankees to offer arbitration, he could nego­tiate with them through Jan. 8. 
Steve Fehr, Cone's agent, wouldn't address if the pitcher intends to exercise his no-arbi­tration right. Cone, according to a person familiar with his think­ing, hasn't made a decision. 
"Obviously. we're aware of the time frame that we're under," Yankees general man­ager Brian Cashman said WednAsday. 
Cone, speaking Wednesday after receiving an award from the March of Dimes, said his preference was to finish his career with the Yankees. 

.. B-ball 
continued from page 24 
scoring 13 on the night. 
"I thought Ruth Riley and Niele Ivey played particularly well tonight. Both of them shot the ball well," said McGraw. 
Ratay, who appears already to have found a comfort zone in just her third collegiate game, looked confident on both ends of the floor, and for the second time this season led the team in scoring. 
"I really don't feel any pres-~ sure," Ratay said. "I just try go out there and play well." 
A 46-22 halftime advantage proved beneficial for McGraw, who was able to rest her starters and get her young bench some important game action. Riley played Sparingly in 
"I don't think it's unreason­able to ask for two years consid­ering the type of run I've had with the Yankees," said Cone, who pitched a perfect game against Montreal last July 18. 
"To me, it's not trying to max­imize the dollar value of the contract. It's the security of two years." 
Cone earned $9.5 million this year, going 12-9 with 3.44 ERA. the second-best in the American League. He was 9-4 with a 2.86 ERA at the AU-Star break, but struggled in the second half. going 3-.5 with a 4.28 ERA. Taking extra rest between starts, he rebounded to go 2-0 in the postseason. 
The Yankees. worried over his age and the condi.lion of his shoulder, would like him to sign a one-year deal. 
"The last thing I'd like to do is play one more year with the Yankees and then look for a job," Cone said. 
lf he doesn't agree to a con­tract with New York and isn't offered arbitration, another team could sign him without losing any draft picks. In addi­tion, they would know their offer wasn't being used by Cone to raise the Yankees' bid. 
Cone had an aneurysm in his right shoulder in 1996 and had arthroscopic surgery to repair 
the game's second half as she rested a nagging ankle injury. . 
"Ruth said at halftime that her ankle was really bothering her," said McGraw. "With a big game against North Carolina coming up this weekend, it's important that we have our starters rest­ed." 
McGraw has been especially enamored with the play of her bench. 
'Tm really happy with this year's freshmen class," noted the Irish coach. "I think Monique Hernandez has really sparked us." 
The Bulldogs saw their record fall to 3-2, but they did get a game-high 17 points from for­ward Kelly Kuhn. 
The Irish will enter a weekend tilt against the North Carolina Tarheels on a high, coming off of what was easily their sharpest game of the season. 
The College of Science 
DISTINGUISHlD SCHOlAR 
lecture Series 1 
FROM the DIAMETER 
of the WorldWide Web 
to KEVIN BACON 
New Oirecttons Irr Comr,lexlry 

Albert-Laszlo Barabas! 
Oe"artment of Pn!J/>'lcs 
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1 
8:00 PM Debartolo Room 138 

the shoulder following the 1997 sign him to a $8 million, one­with the Yankees, tho New York season. year contract with $1.5 million Mets. Cleveland and Baltimore He went 20-7 with a 3. 55 ERA in performance bonuses that he are among the teams thought to 
in 1998, prompting New York to earned all of. If he doesn't sign be interested. 
lEADERSHIP FOR COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE ANDPERSONAlSUCCESS lECTURE SERIES 
presents Mr. Mike Harper, Former Chairman and CEO of RJR Nabisco and ConAgra 
"The Powerof the Individual" 
Friday, December 3 1:00 p.m. Jordan Auditorium College of Business Administration University of Notre Dame 
sponsored by The Management Department 
CJ{tJ?]ST:Jvl)tS IS I!N P/-PE,JlJ~ .. 
CO:JvlP. JOI:JvVS PO~ 


,~ · C001(Ir.E anti OCRJ'{_ft_'.M.P/J.fl.' cfecorati11fJ in the (J)OO£P/f<.I<5)0!A1. 


foffowerf 6yX-511.JfS tree li.glitine at PFE£©JfOVS"E .:M.Jl££. 
Saturday, <December 41, 7:00•9:00 p.m. 

Jf.lSO..~. Pictures ·with S)f.1fi';4.! ! P(J{P/E, X-mas cookjes, liot cfiocofute andculer! 


live X-mas music!1 

Swnwm{!iv lk .Stu4itntlf.cthiitu, Offer. 
Thursday, December 2, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
NFL 
Smith warns fans his career isn't over 
Assodatcd Press IHVING, Texas Emmitt Smith says those who have written him off as an aging back on the down­side of his caroer are mistak­
fln. 
So what if he's 30 years old, in his 10th seasnn with the Dallas Cowboys and playing with a broken right hand. Smith is still fifth in the NFL in rushing, just 22 yards from his ninth straight 1,000-yurd 
season. 
"To try to tio in my age with my physical condition and my injuries, that's the variable­right there that they got them wrong," Smith said Wednesday. "They failed to look at the overall picture. They just wanted to look at 
one segment. 
"I feel like J've got a good four or five more years in me. They jumped the gun, and never took the lime to really look at the game and dissect the 
game." 
Maybe 30 is considered old in the 
thing about Deion right now, that he's on the downside of his career ... all because sta­tistics have shown and indi­cated this happens when you reach a certain age," Smith said. "You are dealing with today's athletes now, people 
"To try to tie in my age with my physical condition and my injuries, that's the variable right there that they got them 
., 
wrong. 
Emmitt Smith Dallas Cowboy running back 
NFL, whflre the average career lasts only a few sea­sons. 
But players the caliber of Smith and Deion Sanders can't always be defined by numbers for average players. 
"They arc saying the same that train 
year-round." 
In Sanders' case, be some­times plays professionally almost year­round. He has played baseball and football in the past and has indicated that a return to the Cincinnati Reds is possi­ble. 
Smith concedes that it takes more effort to stay in playing shape. He doesn't recover from the wear and Lear of games. as quickly as ho did when the Cowboys were win­ning three Super Dowis iu four seasons. 
ATTENTION STUDENTS: 

WHY SELL YOUR USED TEXTBOOKS BACK TO THE BOOKSTORE FOR 
LESS WHEN YOU CAN SELL THEM DIRECTLY TO ANOTHER STUDENT? 
CAMPUSMONSTER.COM ALLOWS STUDENTS TO SELL THEIR USED 
TEXTBOOKS TO OTHER STUDENTS. YOU WILL MAKE MORE MONEY AND YOUR FELLOW STUDENTS WILL SAVE MORE! IT'S THAT SIMPLE. 
LOG ON NOW AND LIST YOUR FALL SEMESTER TEXTBOOKS AND GET ENTERED FOR THE CHANCE TO WIN YOUR NEXT SEMESTERS BOOKS 
FOR FREE!!!! THAT'S RIGHT. WE WILL HOLD A DRAWING ON DECEM­BER 30, 1999 TO FIND THE WINNER OF OUR" SEMESTER FOR FREE" CONTEST. YOU WILL RECEIVE 1 ENTRY FOR EVERY BOOK YOU LIST. THE MORE BOOKS YOU LIST THE BETTER YOUR CHANCES OF WINNING. 
WHEN YOU'RE THERE, GET THE LATEST SCOOP ON WHAT'S HAPPEN­ING AT YOUR COLLEGE OR AT CAMPUSES AROUND THE COUNTRY. THERE'S ALSO A SECTION WITH UP TO DATE SCORES AND COLLEGE NEWS. 
FROM .TEXTBOOK SWAPPING, COLLEGE APPAREL AND GAME TICKETS TO THE LATEST CAMPUS NEWS, IT'S ALL JUST A CLICK AWAY AT CAMPUSMONSTER.COM 
Men's Baskct:bci.l l Saturday, Dec. 4th vs. Vanderbilt 
2:00 m Jo ce Center 

That hasn't diminished his desire. 
"To win another rushing title, another rushing title and another Super Bowl and another Super Bowl, that's all in me," he said. "That's what it's_ all about. That's my moti­vation. 
"Why would I go out here and beat up myself to take chances on breaking hands and breaking bones and everything if I did not want to be a champion all over again?" Smith said, showing the swollen right hand and its accompanying 3-inch scar. 
Smith has had consecutive 100-yard rushing games since having six screws and a plate surgically inserted into his broken hand on Nov. 9. 
He had rushed for 140 yards and two touchdowns on 13 carries, the best rushing total in a half in his caref'f, before fracturing the hand in the second quarter against Minnesota on Nov. 8. 
With receiver Michael Irvin's immediate and long­term future still in doubt because of a neck problem. Smith has been counted on to carry the offensive load for the Cowboys (6-5). 
Dallas is a game behind Washington in the NFC East. 
"If that's the case, I've been in that position before. It's nothing to me," Smith said. "I want to go out and do whatev­er I can do to help this team win. If that's putting it on my back and letting me carry it, that's what it is." 
Swint 
continued from page 24 
welcoming atmosphere and support at Saint Mary's the most important part of her transition. 
"The first thing that made me happy was the support I'm get­ting," Hildebrandt said. "The swimmers and student workers alike really reached out and said, 'Is there anything I can do?' They didn'tjust say it, they did it." 
Now that Hildebrandt has settled in at Saint Mary's, she is setting goals for herself and the swim team. 
"I feel that the team is an untapped resourcn of really tal­entcd swimmers," she said. "My goal is io tap that." 
Saint Mary's swim team's reputation in the MIAA is a major 9oncern of Hildebrandt. 
"We want to make a state· ment in the league that we are not a joke," Hildebrandt said. "We arc a hardworking team:" 
This season, both Hildebrandt and Kachmarik believe teamwork and team­building will be invaluable. 
"I want to continue to get the commitment and dedication that has already started," Hildebrandt said. "The word 'team' and the actual unit of a team is really important to me. I want everyone to do their part." 
Kachmarik agreed that team­work is indispensable in a sport like swimming. 
"She is going to build a team," Kachmarik said. "I think it's important in a long season like swimming, the team aspect. Building that team unity, maybe putting somebody else first is important." 
NEED MONEY FOR BREAK? 
TAKE OUT A SHORT-TERM LOAN FROM:· 
THE MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 11:30-12:30 M-F IN FRONT OF THE DOOLEY ROOM IN LAFORTUNE 
CALL 1-6561 WITH ANY QlJESTIONS 

This Saturday Notre Dame Hockey 
v. '~ichigan St. 
7: 0Opm Joyce Center Fieldhouse 
Sign .up at the game tor a
Men's and Women's Swimming 

ohince to win a SonyPlays.tatlon and game pack from
Thurs.-Sat. 
.K•B Toysl
Notre Dame 'Invitational 
First 375·students Free 
1Oa.m./6:30p.m. Rolfs Aquatic''Center 




page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, December 2, 1999 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Auburn extends home win streak despite poor shooting 
At these prices, it's too bad we don't sell cars. 
Maybe one day we will sell cars, food ond everything else you need. But right now, it's great deals on textbooks every doy. You can save up to 40%, and you'll get your books in 1to 3days. Not that you would, but don't sweat using acredit cord. Vorsi1y8ooks.com is 100% guaranteed secure. Try saying that about anew SUV. 
SAVE UP TO 40% ON TEXTBOOKS. 
had 12 points, seven assists,

Associated Press 
seven rebounds and three steals for Auburn. Scott AUBURN, Ala. Pohlman had 10 points. 

Mack McGadney had 15 Center Mamadou N'diaye, points and 10 rebounds as No. who had career highs in points 7 Auburn overcame poor foul his first two games, had a sec-shooting Wednesday night to ond straight subpar outing for beat Belmont 65-56 for its Auburn. After being in foul 19th straight home victory. trouble much of the game 
Chris Porter added 12 points, against Stanford, he finished 12 rebounds and three steals with five points and three for the Tigers (3-1). They lost blocked shots. at No. 3 Stanford on Saturday in the Wooden Classic. 
Belmont (3-2) got 27 points Wolfpack 61, from Jay Lannin, who was 7-Boilermakers 59 of-12 from 3-point range. He Justin Gainey hit a 3-pointer was 10-of-16 overall while the with 15.2 seconds to play, giv­other four starters were just 8-ing North Carolina State its for-36, including 3-for-20 on first lead of the second half as 3-pointers. the Wolfpack beat No. 19 
The Tigers led 36-25 at half-Purdue Wednesday night in time, but went just 5-of-16 the ACC/Big Ten Challenge. from the free-throw line in the N.C. State (4-0) battled back 
second half. They were 6-of-18 r.::======================:;i
from the line for the game. 
Auburn's home winning streak is the second-longest in team history. Coach Cliff Ellis got his 99th career victory with the Tigers. 
Point guard Doc Robinson 
BOOK SEARCH 
*Used, rare and out-of­
print books *Initial cost of $2.00 *Nationally circulated ad *Success rate of 50% *Time Required: 2 
months 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne · South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232 -8444 
"As You Wish" ....~­
IMPORTS J:?, 
Silver Rings. & Toe Rings Sarongs from Bali Jewelry Tapestries Sweaters Accessories And much much more! 
Goutemala • Me><ico • Bali • Thailand • India • Ecuador 
Incredible Pricesl! Great Christmas Gif tsU Clearance Corner!! 
lO'Y. Disco~ts for St. Mary's Students with !.D.!I 
Proeeeds from sales of jewelry guarantee the loving hands of Guatemalon families 3 times their average salary. as well as furii:ls for their education. 
La Fortune -Room 108 
(near telephones) 
Nov. 29 -Dec. 4 
(Saturdayl) 10am-5pm 

from a 12-point deficit as Purdue (2-2) made just two field goals in the final 13 min­
utes. 

The loss was the first at home in a non-conference game for Purdue since Nov. 30, 1996. 
The Hoilermakers had won 42 of their previous 43 non-conference home games al Mackev Arena. 
Anthony Grundy led the Wolfpack with 18 points and Ron I<;:elley scored 17. 
N.C. State was only 3-of-19 from 3-point range until Gainey's shot gave them 60-.59 lead. 
Reserve John Allison missed a wild hook shot for Purdue and Mike Robinson fouled Kelley battling for the rebound. Kelley made one of two free throws with 5.6 sec­
onds remaining to cap the scoring. 
Carson Cunningham then tried to drive and the attempt turned into Purdue's 26th turnover of the game. 
The Boilermakers led 52-41 

\ 
GIANT PARTY SUBS FOR ANY OCCASION! 
(Please Order At Least 48 Hours In Advance) 
•1706 South Bend Ave (Walking Oistance!)243-7738 
•SR 23 & lronwood/277 -77 44 •Indian Ridge Plaza/271-1772 
•52577 US 31 N (North Village Mall)277-1024 
with 9:54 remaining. However. the Wolfpack refused to wilt as they capitalized on Purdue's turnovers and poor shooting when the Boilermakers had just one field goal for the rest of the game. 
Thursday, December 2, 1999 The Observer . TODAY page 23 

FOURTH AND INCHES 
:JORl)1'"1, 1 \tAD.SUl'...\t A Gee,'\) W~oP.!~OA.! Wttor..J Tl~E' i.JITl-1 Ai"\f!.r;~ W\l,, 1-JIC.~T {3u1')1)'{, M~~ Vov 
-:1: W~', --nl1\\JKII% er: ,¼~1tJ6 IWJ/l,'1t Ota W\.1,0..i -m~:e: 
1-\E.lt OUT. A~-'( ~t>'J1c.E.; 

Fox TROT 
O\JR1N& ntE LATE FALL ANO W1NTER MoNTI-IS, 
'lii£ E"-R1rl'S NoRl'rlERN 
HEMISPHERE TILTS AWAY 
FlloM n-tE SUN. '-..._ 
OF ,'.\'2. '-<Ef.R TT \5 ~ 
TI-US PART of THE PLANET, TiiEN, HAS LON6ER Nt6HTS, 
Sl-lornR 0.&.YS, 1'NO \>RlS£t{T'j A SMALLER TARGET FoR '-. SoLAR RA0IAT10N. 
-:r-('s ~L~ST CHR1!,,M~51 
AND 6tRl..F~IEND ~UIS \l~IStMP.S E"&\lfl.lS GIFT. f='.'/.l'/;NSIJIE:. GITT. 
'lov 1.1.,_t=:. 
OV•R MO\Ji;Y~ 
oul.D You 
\\<:..~To K"::£ ~ ALLO\I= IT 
i WHICH MEANS IT i-GETS CoLDER AIIID 
( COlD~R ll.NO CoLOER. 
1 "­
I. 1' 
" 

TOM KEELEY 
BILL AMEND 
HEY, J'ASoN­
WANNA PLAY 
TENNIS? 



CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 36 Markers 66 Mexican 1 Come through 38 Joanne affirmative with the goods Woodward 67 "Chipping" bird 8 Louis Oscar-winning 
68 Electra's Armstrong, role co-conspiratorinformally 39 Appraise quickly 

15 Former 
42 chi ch'uan 

DOWN 16 Gem Stater 
43 Gist 1 Fates and 17 "Take care of fiestas
44 Deviating, as a
that!" 

rocket 2 Acetyl ender 18 Short times 
45 Kind of tradition 3 Actor Cobb 19 Alarming sight 
47 Some 4 "Sock me!"
at sea 49 Latin infinitive 5 Early fiddles 21 Flower part 50 Some funeral 6 Boxer Griffith 22 Much-devalued arrangements 7 Key over

currency 52 Fore-and-aft-8 Buck

26 It starts and 
rigged vessel 
ends with a line 9 Ouida's " of 55 Believe the bluff Flanders"­

30 Henry James biographer Leon 59 Rampaging 10 Petruchio, to Kate
32 Hat part 62 More impertinent 11 Certain angel 
33 Rama, to Vishnu 65 Try 12 "Angel" 13 Pinning surface ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 14 Switch positions A p H I 20 Theme of this puzzle, in 
C R O C popular N o parlance 
..t:;-t;:::r--f'!" _._..~-:-+.::+:C:+::T:-1 23 Ars longa, vita 
24 Perks (up) 
25 Come out -=-+~,-+,~ 26 Convertible -=-+.,..,...,-,+,,-i 27 Feature of some 
zoos 28 Cracker topper 
~-:+::+,.+:,+,.+-,,-+-,-;-1 29 Toulouse time 

R I O -=-+-+,-,+,-+--1 31 Charlie Brown I S L E .,,...-:-+~"=' A N T O tormentor P E A A G L O L T O N 34 It needs a PIN 

Cronus 
37 Swell place? 40 Is humiliated 41 Be behind 
46 Hannibal of 'The Silence of the Lambs" 
48 Terse rebuttal in a shouting match 
51 Pilot's wind problem 
53 Transmitting 56 "I ,ack iniquity" 

61 Actress speaker Gardner 57 List on a 
63 Classified ad detergent label letters 58 Clairol choice 
64 Monopoly 59 Wonder words foursome: Abbr. 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888·7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
.Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM 

,,...,...,l:,lt:) ... 0~, ... ONE: Mlt-luie. To 'SH ovJER, THI P.TY SEC oNPS ,,_ Fl'-IE:. 5Ec.ot-lP5 To
TO PF-ES-..,··· 

6eT TO CL-ASS'>•·• o\l-, tv\OR.E 51...EE"P A:lf'c.. ME .. , Z Z Z Z -z. z. 
.. 
Alarm clock logic. 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON IBIS DAY: Rick Savage, Julie Harris, Bryan Millard, Cathy Lee Crosby 
Happy Birthday: You can do it if you try. Nothing will stop you from reaching your goals this year if you are determined. You will have innov­ative ideas that are likely to lead to something concrete. Tie up loose ends quickly so that you don't find yourself dragging dead weight. Your numbers: 6, 13, 21, 34, 37, 45 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your emotions will be unstable if you allow your partner to take you for granted. Secret love affairs or infatu­ations will be enticing. Be careful. This type of temptation could dam­age your reputation. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You will be able to pick up some valuable information if you are willing to lis­ten to those with more experience. Be prepared lo do some traveling to pur­sue your interests. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Older relatives may be a burden. Don't let them frustrate you. Take care of their needs quickly and get on with your own plans. Sudden financial dis­ruptions will limit your spending. 
00000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Do something special with your mate. The stress you've both been under has caused disagreements. Put that behind you. You mustn't let others meddle in your personal affairs. 00 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Unreliable individuals may try to borrow money from you. Give them sound advice, but certainly not financial assistance. Don't let anyone take you for granted. 0000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept 22): Your position at home appears to be 
beam.1 Cnd.edu 
EUGENIA LAST 

tm5ettled. Sit back and be observant. It is best not to instigate changes. Just be willing to accept the inevitable. Don't let children alter your plans. 
000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Tem­

pers will flare if you decide to put in 
overtime at work. Your partner is 
really tired of being neglected and 
having to pull your weight when it 
comes to domestic chores. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Short jaunts should be on your agen­da. Your mate will be upset if you don't make special plans for two. Consider a trip to the slopes for a lit­tle skiing and some romancing by a nice hot fire. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your partner will be emotionally unable to cope. Try to take some time to listen to his or her complaints and, in tum. do something appeasing. Don't overextend yourself in the process. 
000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will be in the mood for romance. Join in the festivities. You'll be sur­prised at the number of potential mates you meet. Someone from your past may try to waltz back into your life. 00 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't push your luck if you have to deal with officials or institutions. Carelessness will lead to a series of mishaps. You are likely to be mis­interpreted if you are the least bit evasive. 00000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You'll enjoy doing things with youn~sters. Don't overspend. You can hnd things to do that won't break your budget. Don't let a lack of funds depress you. 000 
Birthday _Bahr-You see, you do. Nothing will stand in your _way once }"OU have a goal m nund. You are relentless, courageous and forthright in all that you pursue. You're a great team player with a strong will to succeed. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvlce.com, eugenialastcom, astromate.com.) 10 1999 Universal Preso Syndicate 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
.. 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name _______________________ Address ____________________ City _______ State---.,--Zip______ 
! 

PORTS­

~HE page 24 vnSERVER 

WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish outpace Bulldogs behind Ratay, Riley 
By KEYlN BERCHOU 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team is clearly ecsta­tic to be home. 
.. 
Playing in the friendly con­fines of the Joyce Center for the 
first time this season, the Fighting Irish scored an irnpres­sive win, caging the Butler Bulldogs 77-57. 
The Irish women bounced back from last week's loss to the Fighting Illini by mounting a first-half charge which saw them lead by as many as 24 points. 
Led by junior All-American Ruth Riley, who tallied 14 points in the first half, and sharp­shooting freshman Alicia Ratay, who added 16. the Irish had lit­tle trouble improving their record to 2-1. 
Motivated by their poor play against Illinois, the Irish came out extremely sharp and pounced on the Bulldogs from the opening tip. 
The Irish bolted to a 26-9 advantage behind the strength of Riley's solid two-way play. After notching six of her team's first 10 points, the Irish center turned to her defense, blocking three Bulldog shots in just more than a minute. Flustered by Riley's imposing play. Butler struggled to mount a first-half attack. 
"I think the effort was out­standing tonight," said Irish coach Muffet McGraw. "We knew we played poorly against Illinois, and we just wanted to get back out there and play somebody. I thought we came out very sharp and focused." 
Guard· Niele Ivey also showed glimpses of brilliance, dishing out five assists and drilling three first-half treys en route to 
see B-BALL / page 20 


SWIMMING 
Hildebrandt works double-time for Belles 
By MOLLY McVOY Assitant Sports Editor 
Balance is the key to Gretchen Hildebrandt's coaching style and career. 
Hildebrandt, who replaces Jini Cook as Saint Mary's head swim coach and assistant athletic director. said either could be a full-time job in itself. 
"Being the head swim coach is a full time responsibility," Hildebrandt said. "It's a chal­lenge trying to balance that with 
.. 
SPORTS 
ATA 
GLANCE 
being assistant athletic director because sometimes it feels like I just don't have enough time." 
Hildebrandt's ability to look past her hectic schedule to the players she coaches is what dis­ti nguis hes her as a coach, according to first-year athletic director Lynn Kachmarik. 
"I think her ability to care about people is her best quality as a coach," said Kachmarik, who coached Hildebrandt in swimming at Bucknell University. "She's putting indi­viduals first, being an honest 
• Swimming at Notre Dame Invitational Today, 6:30 p.m. 
~ 
NCAA Semi-finals vs. Santa Clara 
Friday, 6:30 p.m. 
and compassionate person." 

Hildebrandt's experiences at Bucknell help her to be an effec­tive coach at a college like Saint Mary's, Kachmarik said. 
"Coming from an institution very similar to Saint Mary's where she was a student" athlete and academics was most impor­tant will help her greatly," Kachmarik said. "Swimming is very demanding; it's a huge time commitment. I think she can bring her background to this program as she's trying to build it and give her swimmers advice 
• 
Making Waves 

The swimming team begins action today in the Notre Dame Invitational. The women look to remain undefeated and the men seek to chalk up a victory. 
page 14 

on how to make both academics and swimming work." 
After graduating from Bucknell in 1998, Hildebrandt taught language arts at a Massachusetts grade school. She then served as assistant swim coach for the men's and women's swim teams at The College of the Holy Cross, a Division I school in Worcester, Mass. 
This fall, she came to Saint Mary's. Hildebrandt called the 
see SWIM / page 21 
• 
vs. Vanderbilt Saturday, 2 p.m. 
Volleyball vs. Ohio State Saturday, 5 p.m. 

Thursday, December 2, 1999 
The Lesson We Learned 
My mother always told me it didn't mater if I won or lost. but rather onlv that I learned something from my mistakes. So as a senior, I'd like to look back on the last four foot­ball sea­sons not in terms of wins and loss~ es, but in terms of the lessons learned in the process. 
We learned patience. 
Whether it was watching Jarious mature from the quar­terback he was into the quar­terback he has become, or finally beating USC, we learned that good things come to those who wait. 
Sometimes we learned too much patience: patiently watching the clock run out or patiently waiting for our leader to deliver the victories he has promised. 
We learned the value of rep­etition. Honestly, how many of you don't ~now the pep rally speech by heart? If only we could read our class notes that many times, we'd all be schol­ars. 
We learned forgiveness, or at least we're trying to learn it. 
We watched a certain kicker miss field goal after field goal. We watched certain corner­backs blow coverage after cov­erage (Insert Covington or Jefferson; take your pick.). We watched a certain ex-quarter­back throw away pass after pass. We watched a certain coach make mistake after mis­take. 
And yet, we also watched them being forgiven time after time after time. 
We learned to say good-bye. Good-bye to a coaching leg­end. 
Good-bye to the all-time rushing leader in Notre Dame history. 
Good-bye to the all-time leader in returns for a touch­down. 
Good ridtlance ... I mean good-bye to the all-time leader in every career-passing cate­gory. Good-bye to the all-time single-season passing leader. 
Good-bye to a less-than-leg­endary head coach. Oops, a lit­tle pre-mature on that one. 
We learned the jig, the words to the Alma Mater and the first verse of the fight song. 

see CHURNEY / page 19 
vs. Michigan Scace Saturday, 7:05 p.m. 






