
¦ Goe the winter blues? Scene explores rhe South
¦ Michael "Air" Jordan announced his rerirement 
Thursday
Bend winter wonderland and gets student 

yesterday, ending rhe greatest basketball career of all 
reactions to the blanket ofsnow.

time. The most-recognized face in the world, Jordan 
is 99. 9% certain he will not return to basketball. 
JANUARY 14, 

Scene• 10 
1999

Sports • Back Page 
THE 




The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXI I NO. 66 WWW. N D.EDU/-OBSERVER 
¦ FACULTY SENATE 
Senate to set up faculty forum on Big 10 membership 
By DEREK BETCHER regarding Big IO membership. Assistant News Edimr • In committee news. tlrn Faculty Senate's Student Affairs Cornmilten 
A future faculty forum to discuss Big continued to devotn its limn lo consid­10 membership, a need for du Lac eration of the Women's Hesource revision and future librarv renova­Center probationary issun. tions were among the issues that sur­The WHC. a student group. was faced at Wednesday's meeting of the placed on two-ynar probation last Faculty Senate. June by tho omen of Student Activities 
Tho senate's chairman and for providing Planned Parenthood Academic Affairs Committee chair­matPrials, raising what the commiltne man revealed plans for a Jan. 29 fac­considers am questions of academic ulty forum to discuss Notre Dame's freedom and procedural due process. potential Big 10 membership. Earlier in the academic year. senate 
Lasting from 3-5 p.m. in McKenna chair '\1ichacl Detlefsen id11ntifiml tho Ilall, the forum will f'nature state­WHC issun as one Urn !'acuity wantfld ments and discussion from a set of to sec simatfl action upon. panel members representing the "This issun has a chilling effncl on Faculty Senate, the graduate school. the climate of' inquiry," philosophy the Athletic Department, the various professor Ed Manier notml in commit­acadomic deans, the University's tee discussion. finances and Notrn Dame's alumni. The committee's snrnnstnr-long 
After learning of the event, the sen­information-gathering drnw to a dosn ate considered inviting Board or earlier this week when it intPrvi11wcd
The Observer/Dave Laheist 
Trustees members to listen to the
Ava Preacher and the Faculty Senate discuss the Women's Resource Center probationary issue. They have been re-examining the events leading up to the probation. panelists and learn their sentiments see FACULTY/ page 4 
¦ STUDENT SENATE 


Members okay $14,000 budget slice for events 
By TIM LOGAN 
Am,ci.1tr N,·ws Editor 
C:onlrol of $14,000 of llw Stud1inl Union budget was at iss11P last night as Lim Student S11nale pass1•cl a mPasurP Pstahlishing a fund to encour­agn crn1pPrati11n lmtwe1m clubs and largnr orga­n izalions in sponsoring campus activities. 
TIH• proposal, which sols asidn 2.25 percent ol' tlw hwlgl'l -approximatPly $14.000 this year -for tlw Ex1!Clllive Cabirrnl lo allocalo for co­sponson•d campus events, was a ll'mporary com promise measurn draf'ted during the last Sl!IHtln 1111•cting 011 Ike. <J. Al Lim time, it was larw•ly agrned upon by all sides. but bncausn of procmlural ru his, a vol11 could nol ho taken al that spssion. Whl'll tlw issue came to llie lloor last night. tilf• majority of snnators supported it. d1ispit1• a fow objPclions. 
"I think this will lwlp a lot in creating ideas in thn Exncutivn Cahinnt," said K1ionan senator Malt Mamak. "It forcos co-sponsorship and crn­The ice on the roofofCushing/Fitzpatrickaliv . > idPas lo hap1wn lietwnPn SUB and tho 
became so heavy that it caused ale:1k in the
Ollien of tlw l'n1sidP11t and tlrn clubs." Tlw lixPculiw Cabi1wt is comprised of leaders ceiling, forcing the Liniversity to have it or llw StudP11l Union's major programming bod­
cleared offso the roof would drain better.
it•s (SUll. llall Prnsidt•nl's Council. thn Oflke of llw Prnsidcntl as w1•II as llw classes and tho Club Cuordination Council. 
Above: The cherry-picker helps mai,1)­
Sonw srnrntors opposed tlw nwasurn on consti­tutional grounds, claiming that it would grant tainence workers reach the ice. lhP Lxt:cutivc Cabinet. a programming body, rnorc ckcision-making pownr al thn expense of tlw SI\Ililtc, which must approvn many budget Right: Abucket catches the drips from the allocations. ceiling.
"This dot!sn't provide for sPnatn allocation. it's not in kunping with the Conslilulion," said Pholos by Kevin Dalum for The Observer Knough scrrntor Brian 0-Donoghtw. who also nx1m·ss<'d cunccrn that such control over alloca­tion nl' funding would rnakP I.he Cahinf't a dPci-

page 2  The Observer• INSIDE  Thursday, January 14, 1999  
¦ INSIDE COLUMN Millenniutn  utside the Dome  
Blues  Compiled from UWire reports University waits to implement drug law for students  

It's only 1999, and depending on whether you're an Arts and Lettf'rs major or a Scif'nce major, lhe millennium is still a year or two away, but I'm already sick orit. 
It's everywhere. M&Ms -------­
are the official candy of the millennium. London has a Millennium Dome (and it looks like Stepan Center with giant knitting needles in it; can you imagine anything so ugly'?). Twentieth Century Fox is changing its name 
Laura Petelle
to 21st Centurv Fox. 
Assistant News Editor 
There's a clothing line featuring O1-01•00 and various other millennial designations. That des­ignation itself, 01-01-00, has been copyrighted by an enterprising young man whose name I forget -just imagine how rich the Catholic Church would be now if the early Popes had thought to copyright the cross. And a lot of peo­ple will be having sex this March shooting for the first baby of the year 2000. 
But what's so big about the year 2000? Or, for that matter. 2001? The reason people are get­ting all excited all has to do with Jesus, of course. Lots of people think the end is coming or Jesus might be on his way back. The calen­dar year-counting system is based on the year of Jesus's birth, but most scholars now agree that Jesus was born in about 4 B.C. it would have been way funnier if God had shown up in 1996 or 1997 when nobody was watching for it (thief in the night and all that). 
Alternatively, Cod could show up 2,000 years after the crucifixion, when everybody's forgot­ten about the millennium and its end-of-the­world prophecies. But who says that God uses a base-10 numbering system? The number 2,000 is only significant because it's 10 times 10 times 10 times two. What if God decided to go with a base 14 system and show up in the year 2744 (14 times 14 times 14)? 
Besides which, who says that God is counting 
with Christians? There's a wonderful Kurt 
Vonnegut short story in which the protagonist, a 
fundamentalist Christian, wakes up on New 
Year's Day of the new millennium (having 
avoided the end of the world by hiding) and 
finds that while all the Christians have been 
taken off to the Last Judgement, all the Chinese, 
Muslims, and Jews are still there, since they use 
a different calendar. 
An even better illustration of this is the Dilbert 
comic where Dogbert says to Dilbert something 
along the lines or, "I predict the world will end 
in the year 2000. My rationale is that 2,000 is a 
big and round number. BIIIIIIIG and ROUND." 
And that's all it is. A big and round number. 
Sure, a millennium only comes along once in 
a millennium. And I suppose it's historic. But 
we've already lived through far more historic 
events -the fall of the Berlin Wall, for exam­
ple, or the fall of Russian Communism. Unless 
something of historical significance actually 
HAPPENS in the year 2000 {or 2001), there's 
really nothing historic about it at all. 
So you won't find me leaving behind my shell 
to get in the space-ship behind some comet or 
moving to Jerusalem to have a better seat for 
the second coming or stocking up on foodstuITs 
in anticipation of the end of the world (why do 
people DO that'? If the world is ending, it's not 
going to help), or doing anything else very mil­
lennial. 
Because I expect that the only thing of millen­
nial significance that most people are going to 
have on Jan. 1, 2000 is an apocalyptic hang­
over. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily rhose ofThe Observer. 
¦ TooAv' s STAFF 
News Scene 
Laura Petelle Loubel Cruz 
Tom Enright Graphics 
Brad Unciedr Cristin Manarv 
Sports Lab Tech 
Brian Kessler Monica Garza 


Viewpoint 
Eddie Llull 
The Ohscrvcr (USPS 5')9 2-4000) i, publi,h,d Monday through Fralay cxcepr during c>..im and vacation period.\, Th"· Ob~crvcr is a mc.:mbcl' of ,he: A,so...ialc<l J>rcs~. All reproduction righb are reserved. 

GAINESVILLE, Fla. drug r.onviction, which makes it hard Students depending on financial aid to know which students should not

~ UNIVERSITY OP 
may not get it if they have been con­receive financial aid. victed of a drug offense, under new Fooks said so far, no UF student

,5?: FLORIDA 
legislation passed by Congress late has been denied finanr.ial aid last year. complete a drug rehabilitation pro­because of a drug convir.tion. 
There is a catch, though. gram approved by the U.S. "We aren't aware of any students University officials have no way to Department of Education. [with convictions]," Fooks said. "It's implement the new law because they But Fooks said the financial aid just not information most people have no way of knowing whether a office also has no way of knowing would volunteer to us." student has a drug conviction. whether students have attended The new law also created stricter 
So UF, along with many universi­rehabilitation. crime-reporting requirements for ties across the country, is waiting to "We're told [by the Department of colleges. Universities now must officially implement the Jaw until Education] at the moment to sit tight report alcohol. drug and weapons they receive further instructions from and wait for further information," violations along with arson and the U.S. Department of Education. Fooks said. manslaughter offenses. 
"The biggest issue is where the Exactly when thosCJ federal instruc­Previously, colleges only had to information is going to come from/ tions will come remains uncertain. report aggravated assaults, burglar­said Karen Fooks, director of finan­John Dalton, director of Student ies, motor-vehicle thefts, murders, cial aid at UF. She said no national Judicial Affairs, said the new law is robberies and sex offenses. database keeps track of drug convic­designed to reduce drug offenses on Some universities across the coun­tions. campuses but is difficult to enforce. try have said the new crime-report­
Under the new law, students can He said UF has to depend on self­ing regulations are crnating extra get their financial aid back if they reporting to know if students have a work. 
¦ YALE UNIVERSITY  ¦ PRINCETON UNIVERSITY  
Prof maintains innocence in murder  President investigates Nude Olympics  
NEW HAVEN, Conn.  PRINCETON, N.J.  
James Van <le Velde, the Yale lecturer who has been  President Shapiro announced Monday he is asking Dean  
named as one in a pool of suspects in the homicide of  of Student Life Janina Montero to examine the future of  
Suzanne Jovin '99, claimed innocence in a statement sub­ the Nude Olympics in light of the "serious risks that the  
mitted to the Yale Daily News last night. "Any suggestion  Nude Olympics pose." In a strongly worded letter to the  
that I had anything to do with the death of my former stu­ editors of The Daily Princetonian, Shapiro cited the high  
dent is deeply, deeply painful and outrageous," he wrote.  number of students who were taken to Mccosh Health  
"I am innocent." The statement came two days after Yale  Center and Princeton Medical Center Friday night as an  
officials told the lecturer his classes would be canceled for  indication of the event's potentially dangerous nature. lie  
the semester. Van de Velde, who was Jovin's senior essay  also wrote that college masters reported behavior "that  
advisor, said he regrets the University's "eleventh hour  was truly disgraceful and unacceptable." "The reports of  
decision" to cancel the courses, and said it underestimat­ that evening sounded, to put it mildly, supremely distress­ 
ed students' ability "to choose their courses maturely, to  ing." Shapiro said in a telephone interview yesterday  
overcome distractions and to make the most of their  afternoon. "I have the health and the safety of the stu­ 
respective educational experiences." He also wrote that he  dents in mind. I think it's not the rowdiness I have in  
cooperated fully with police, offering to give a blood sam­ mind. It's the severe abuse of alcohol." In his letter,  
ple and take a polygraph examination -offers he said  Shapiro indicated that Friday's events necessitated a deci­ 
were declined. Police found Jovin the night of Dec. 4 suf­ sive response. "I am simply not willing to wait until a stu­ 
fering from multiple stab wounds to the back.  dent dies before taking preventive action," he wrote.  
¦ UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA  ¦ UNIVERSITY Of CALIFORNIA  
Native American protests classroom  Police accuse fraternity of hazing  
LINCOLN, Neb.  DAVIS, Cali!'.  
One man protested Tuesday to an associate professor's  Neighbors of the UC Davis chapter of Phi Delta Theta  
teaching in a room in which it is alleged the professor  heard yelling and fighting coming from the fraternity house  
violated state and federal laws governing the handling of  early Sunday morning, prompting one passerby to contact  
American Indian remains. Randy Thomas, an American  the Davis Police Department. Officers responding to the  
Indian not representing a tribe, held a demonstration, at  call at about 3 a.m. discovered three new members - 
which no one else showed, where American Indian  referred to as "pledges" ­who were covered from head to  
remains were found in October 1997. It was alleged Karl  toe in food and beer. The three later told police they had  
Reinhard, an associate anthropology professor, who was  been hazed for several hours. In addition to finding the  
teaching in that room Tuesday morning, studied and  three pledgCJs -two of whom are 18 years old and one  
stored the remains in ways that violated state and-feder­ who is 19 ­Davis police also discovered a keg containing  
al law. Some have alleged Reinhard did destructive  alcohol during their initial search of the fraternity house.  
analysis on remains. On Tuesday, Thomas arrived at  Consequently, Phi Delta Theta is currently the focus or an  
Bessey Hall at about 8:50 a.m. for the class that began at  ongoing investigation headed by Student Judicial Affairs.  
9:30 a.m. He did not go inside the classroom. "I did not.  The fraternity was put on probation at the beginning of  
go there for a confrontation with Karl Reinhard,"  November for a period of three academic quarters as a  
Thomas said. "I did want to prove a point to Karl Reinhard  result of an alcohol-related incident of violence that  
that we are here, and we will always be here."  occurred on Picnic Day.  

¦ Sourn BEND WEATHER ¦ NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Jan. 14.
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
Lines e arate i h temperature zones for the day.

AccuWeather~forecast for daylime conditions and high temperatures 
H L Wednesday ~ 24 14 
; 
Thursday c:3 28 21 Friday ~37 3ll"
; '''·:·<;,)()

37·· 

FRONTS:
30s

Saturday ~44 

40s ....,....er-....... .......... 
·<., 

mi 1999 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY PrtHUffl: 
v·'",r
Sunday ~45 38 
® © B ' c_:J . D . wfili;
. . .

High Low Showers Rain T-storms Flurriea Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via Associated Pres, 

Atlanta 57 48 Columbus 33 19 Indianapolis 28 24 Baltimore 33 32 Dallas 39 28 Los Angeles 76 48
q_Q_~qeQ i) ~ u 
Baton Rouge 59 52 Denver 51 23 Miami BO 68 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow fee Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Chicago 26 15 Honolulu 80 65 New York 28 23 
Vis Assoc,eted Press GraphiesNel 

page 3
Thursday, January 14, 1999 The Observer• NATIONAL NEWS
----------------~---­
r.a 'J· 




!~ JJ 
"~ump, Jive &Wail" 


Do you want to work abroad this summer? 

NDCIBD offers Internships in Ireland, Chile, Switzerland, Estonia, Germany, Russia, Brazil, and China 
With companies including Bank of Ireland, Credit Suisse, Waterford Crystal, Honeywell, etc. 
Teat.:hing Positions are available in Poland, China, Russia, Estonia, Benin, and Lithuania 
Information and Applications arc available in L058 COBA and at our website: ht1p://www.nd.edu/~ndcibd/ 
Applications deadline: Monday January 18th by 5:00pm 
Drop off outside room L058 College of Business Administration 


No mention of trial in State of the Union 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 
President Clinton signaled Wednesday he will be silent about his Senate impeachment trial and its threat to his presidency when he stands bofore ~i1c'.·~~;;z;r"mn!":'!1 Congress next week in a nalion­a II y broadcast Slate of the Union adtlress. 
"l think the American people have heard about 
----_: that quite cxtcn-Clinton sively over the last year," Clinton said. "My instincl is that I should do their business." 
Later, press secretary .Joe Lockhart said there were "no plans that I know of" for Clinton to address the controversy Tuesday night in his speech from the House chamber where he was impeached Doc. 19. 
It was a year ago on Jan. 21 that Clinton was engulfed in controversy l'rom charges he engaged In a sexu­al relationship with former White !louse intern Monica Lewinsky. Six days later, he delivered his State of the Union speech and matle no mention of the scandal that later blossomrd into the impeachment 
crisis. 

White House aides view Clinton's annual report to the nation as an ideal opportunity to project an image of leadership and concern for the nation's business, despite his own problems. "The important thing for me is to spend as little time thinking about [the impeach­ment trial] as possible and as much time working on the issues we're here to discuss as possible," the president said. 
11.e spoke at the opening of a Cabinet Room discussion with invit­ed labor leaders about Tuesday's speech and his fiscal 2000 budget proposal. The labor leaders pressed him to address the needs of work• ing Americans. 
The group, which included the presidents of the AFL-CIO, the United Steelworkers of America, the Communications Workers of America and the American Federation or State, County and Municipal Employees, stressed that trade policy should protect work­ers' rights. The labor leaders urgnd that the government should contin­ue investing in worker retraining and protect ·the integrity of' the Social Security system and asked for support for the rights of work­ers to organize. 
Republicans, meanwhile, told 
Clinton not to raise taxes to finance new initiatives. They said proposals Clinton already announced to in crease military readiness, improve food safety, expand Medicare and for other initiatives would roquiro $28.8 billion in -new spnnding. 
"Over the last two years, your budget contained dozons of tax hikes that found no support from the American people, let alonn Democrats and Republicans in Congress," Rep. Bill Archer (H­Texas), chairman of the llousn Ways and Means Committl~e. said in a Iettor to tlrn president. "To achieve bipartisan results. 1 urge yo_u not t~ repeat these tax-hiking mistakes. 
Clinton's chief of staff, John Podesta, summoned Cabinet secre­taries for a briefing on the State of the Union and plans for them to fan out acr()ss the nation after the address to promote the president's initiatives. 
Some members of' Congress have urged Clinton to postpone Tuesday's address, or to submit it in writing, because the Senate trial will be under way at the tim~. Sen. Joseph Lieberman (!)-Conn.) urged delay "because or the awkwardness of it. But obviously that's his choice." 

BRAII IAGLI FA'4ILY BILLIARD/ 
Student Spe.cial---1/2 price ($I.SO/hr.) 3·& pm Men-fri. 
~-.4Ml«4 ~ (feU «>I~ ~J 28 Tables ('l. 8, 9, 1o, & 12 feetJ 
1202 S. Lafayette (go west on Eddy and go South on Lafayette) . ph. 233-2323 
YOGA 
APHYSICAL. MENTAL & SPIRITUAL WORKOUT. IDEAL'WORKOUT FOR STRESS MANAGEMENT. IMPROVING FLEXIBILITY & MUSCULAR STRENGTH. 
MONDAYS __........._ 
1/18-3/1 6:45 -8:00PM $22 


WEDNESDAYS 1/20 -3/3 

5:30 -6:25PM OR 6:35 -7:30 
$22 

TAI CHI 
AWORKOUT THAT UTILIZES THE MOVEMENTS OF NATURE TO WORK THE PHYSICAL AND SPIRITUAL SELF. CALL 1-61 oo WITH ANY QUESTIONS 
THURSDAYS 
1/21,, 3/4 5:30 -6:45PM $22 

REGISTRATION FOR CLASSES BEGINS 7:30AM 1/15 RSRC 


Thursday,.January 14, 1999
The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS 
page 4 



Faculty 
continued from page 1 
the student who initiated the disciplinary action against the WRC. Citing "disjunctures between accusation of miscon­duct and the penalty," the com­mittf1e will stand behind its ear­lier letter asking director of Student Activities Joe Cassidy to resdnd the WRC's probation. 
Wednesday night's committee meeting focused on future cours8 of inquiry. The commit­tee grappled with questions of where to direct its efforts, not­ing that uncertainties of which bodies exercise oversight over which procedures complicates most efforts to reform student affairs issues. 
The committee concluded that 
a need to revise and clarifv du 
Lac and especially its discipli­
nary procedures may underlie 
its future efforts. 
• In other committee news: 
The Benefits Committee 
reported that a recent survey of 
Notre Dame's bf\nefits package 
was rated average or above 
average on most of its aspects. 
The Administrative Committee 
revealed its "Guidelines to Notre 
Dame faculty concerning the 
use of alcohol" and hopes to see 
the document incorporated into 
the University's faculty hand­
book. 
"Faculty on occasion might invite students who are of age to attend departmental [or other] gatherings where alcohol is being served and invite them to participate in the same respon­sible and mature way that facul­ty members are participating," the text reads. 

The Academic Affairs Committee reported on its earli­er meetings to discuss major library renovations scheduled to begin in July of 2000. Architects will visit the University to begin planning later this month, and the senate hopes to have input on the changes that will occur. 
• In addition to announcing the faculty forum on Big Ten membership, Detlefsen covered three other items in his monthly chair's report to the senate. 
First he discussed a letter he sent to the Board ofTrustees Academic Affairs Chairman regarding the dflcision to locate the next board meeting in London. Detlefsen explained to the senate that his letter expressed dissatisfaction with that choice of location because it practically precludes faculty attendance and input. The BOT is expected to address two issues of express significance to the senate at that meeting: Big 1 O conference membership for Notre Dame and inclusion of sexual orientation into the University's legal non-discrimi-· nation clause. 
Detlefsen also reported on his appearance last month before the Student Senate where he participated in discussion on issues of mutual interest to the two senates such as honor code revision and Big Ten member­ship. 

GET MONEY FROM YOUR UNCLE INSTEAD. 
Your Unqle Sam. Every fees. They even pay a flat rate year Army ROTC awards for textbooks and supplies. scholarships to hundreds of You can also receive an allow-talented students. If you anceofupto$1500eachschool 
qualify, these merit-based  ~EADERS1i1p  year the scholarship is in  
scholarships can help you  ~  effect.  Find out today if  
paytuitionandeducational  ...__._.....  you qualify.  


ARMY ROTC 
THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE 
For detail~, visit Room 217 Pasquerilla Center or call 
631-6265 


When something is too extreme for words, it~ to the Nth degree. And that's the level of technology you'll experience at Raytheon. 
Raytheon has formed a new technological superpower -Raytheon Systems Company, composed of four major technological giants: Raytheon Electronic Systems, Raytheon E-Systems, Raytheon Tl Systems and Hughes Aircraft. The new Raytheon Systems Company is driving technology to the limit. And we're looking for engineers who want to push the envelope. Break new ground. Make their mark. 
At Raytheon, you'll take technology-and your career-to the highest possible level. You'll take it to the Nth. 
We have a lot to tell you about the new Raytheon Systems Company and the exciting opportunities we have available. Plan on visiting our booth at your college career fair. If you are unable to attend the fair then check out our website at www.rayjobs.com and please send your resume to: Raytheon Resume Processing Center, P.O. Box 660246, MS-201, Dallas, TX 75266. 
Internet: www.rayjobs.com • E-mail: resume@rayjobs.com 
U.S. citizenship may be required. We are an equal opportunity employer. 





Raytheon 

l'lttmday,January 14, 1999 
¦ WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
U.S. military jet crashes near Dutch border, kills four 
Flll\NKFUlrl'. Cnrmnny 
A U.S. military refueling piano crashed and burst into llamo:-; Wednesday night near tlw l>uld1 hordor, killing !'our people on board, a U.S. military ortir.ial said. The KC· l'.~5 plarw, assignncl t.o a NATO baso near th,~ norLhwcstcrn town or Goilcnkirchen, naslwd at aho11t. 7:30 p.m. (l::W p.m. EDT) in f'orPsts two milns from tlw hasn, police said. Nanws of thn victims wern lming with­lwld unlil 1l11\ir famili1•s am rwLi!forl, said Maj. Mark Brown. spokesman for Fairchild Air Forcn BasH rrnar Spokanu, Wash. Thn plarw was altaclwd to thn Washington Air NaLional (;wml 141 sL 1\ir lfof'twling Wing, lms1id al h1ird1ild. It was one of t.wo platrns and thr!'t.' Cl'!'WS s1mt to Gl!ilonkirchen on .l,111 :{ Lo support rnful'ling missions of NATO n•rrnmaissance plaiws. Brown said. 
U.S. planes fire on Iraq 

WASIIINGTON 
U.S. warplanos Wodrwstlay attackod and lril s1~v11ral missile sites in nortlrnrn Iraq after Baghdad's forces attempted to shoot down alliNf Jets in Urn no-f'ly zone, a l'i\ntagon spokHsman said. It was the third (:011s1wutivc day the U.S. had firncl on Iraqi targets in tlw northern no-fly zone in a.n PSl'alation of conllicl b(itwecn the two sides. lldens11 Dnpartnrnnl spokesman Lt. Col. St11v1i Campb<'il sai1I U.S. ain:raft wnrc doing routinf' patrols nmtr Lim northPrn city of' Mosul when they were "illuminated" by scv­Pral Iraqi mi8sile systems. "Them are indica­tions that coalition aircraft were fired upon at lnast 011c11 by at lnast one Iraqi surl'ace-to­air missil,~." saicl Campbell. "The coalition air crnws acted in self.defense," he said. Camplmll said the U.S. pilots, in F-16 and F­15 warplanes, firm! precision-guided bombs as well as lligh-Spced Anli-lladiation Missiles at llrnir Iraqi targets. 
Oil refinery blast kills three 
SMJ\CKOVEH, Ark. 
An E1xplosion rockcd an oil refinery Wednesday, killing three people, a company spokfisman said. Bill Prewett, an attorney !'or Cross Oil Befinery. said the victims were mnployees of an outside contractor. "The explosion occurred in an area where some wdding was being done," Prewett said. "The cause c,r causes we don't know." State Police Capt. Larry Gleghorn said the employees wern working on a naphtha tank valve when thc cxplosion occurrnd. Naphtha is a color­less. volatile petroleum distillate -usually an intenn11diale product between gasoline and bm1zi11n. Gleghorn said the local fire d11partmm1t and hazardous materials team wPre working to liandle the naphtha leak. 

Dow 
AMEX: 
699.39
JONES 
0.26 

Nasd:u1:

9349.56 
2316.Kl 
-3.94 
D 
NYSE: 
590.72 
-H7 S&P 500: 123--1.40 


Compo.\ite
-5.1! 
Volume: 
-125.12 I,JI 9,219,620 VOLUME LEI\DERS 
1ll'bltl 1 PIAN(ik' $ liAIN PRlfl; 

A~~·rrd{',,111111 r\.'iNl1 +? 17 +5 17.'IU /UJ ll.:'.~ (.l1<t'll"-'f\t1.'ll1< c-..ro !N 2H ,,~KH 11111."I ('11fJI 1N'fC' +2' t~ .. 1.111~ 1.u1 un 1\111rr1-1.,1(111!11ii.: AUi _. n -ti ~h.:?~ I~7 llr1..!, f'FLll,1/"ulp l:.'11 N +.11': 1m +275-11..n~ ,·,1,,1,111p In, (" t, \~) .,l,~fli,o; ~.?.1)117~ l u~r~1 Jn11 lui UI l.lJtj -.l 1;;..'io mu~ f'n111r,a1 ('0111pult·1 {'I'(.} :, l.l 1r,oo .J'tti:i~ f>cll ('11111f'llll'' '11-11. ,.m -I I1-;u '79 Jl2~ Mhf!ll,11tt t:urp M~fl -+ I t,~ ->-I fil:410 14UIL!~ 

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER VflRE SERVICES page S 
' ¦ YUGOSLAVIA 


Kosovo rebels free Yugoslav soldiers 
A'i.SOCIATEO PRESS LIKOVJ\C 

Kosovo rebels freed eight Yugoslav soldiers Wednesday after getting pri­vatn incm1tives from international offi­cials who were determined to head off a rAturn to war in the troubled Serbian province. 
Tim release, brokered by U.S. and European mediators, defused a five-day showdown in which Yugoslav forces massed tanks and troops near the northern Kosovo village where the sol­diers wore being held. 
The Kosovo Liberation Army (Kl.A) only agreed to the release after govcrn­nrnn L authorities promised the media­tors they would free KL!\ prisoners within 10 days, lhe ethnic Albanian radio station Kolm Ditore reported, r.it.­ing sourcl's close to the negotiations. 
William Walker, the U.S. head of international monitors in Kosovo, announced the release after a final flur­ry ol' talks with KLJ\ leaders at the rebel stronghold of Likovac in the hills of cen­tral Kosovo. 
While details of the agreement remained confidential, Walker acknowl­ndged last-minute "guarantees" made to the Kl.A, which had refused to let the soldiers go without assurances of free­dom f'or nine rebels captured by the army along the Albanian border last month. 
"We are pleased, as part or a fair and balanced agreement, that the KLJ\ has released the Yugoslav soldiers," was all Walker would say. standing in the mud in 1.ikovac, 20 miles west of the capital, Pristina. "Tho agreement will con­tribute to a peaceful resolution to the current crisis." 
The army and Serb officials insisted the release was unconditional. But informed Serb sources in Pristina who asked not to be named said conditions were attached, and signs pointed to a likely face-saving agreement under which the Serbs would free KLA prison­
AFP Photo

ers later. Rebel spokesman Jakup Krasniqi An armed Kosovo Liberation Army (KLA) soldier stands guard in front of a destroyed hinted strongly at a deal with the Serbs, house close to the KLA headquarters in Likovac, where negotiations to free KLA pris­oners were held.
saying he hoped that "the promises made to us will soon become a reality, based on the agreement." the release of the nine detained guer­monitors and then to the army. 
The release of the soldiers was rillas. They were back at their barracks in delayed for hours Wednesday while "We could promise the KLA nothing Kosovska Mitrovica within an hour of Walker, Christopher Hill of the United except that the Yugoslav side would Walker's announcement. reunited States and Wolfgang Petritsch of the also make a contribution in this with anxious parents and visibly 
European Union held talks with the process of trust-building," he told the relieved, but tired. rebels. Austria Press Agency. "Thank God it ended and we're all Petritsch of Austria was quoted as The eight army soldiers, held since alive," said one, who declined to give saying the KLA persisted in demanding last Friday, were turned over to the his name. 
¦ NEW ZEALAND 

Airdrop helps Antarctic trekkers 
ASSOCIATED PHESS Their attempt to ski-trek frorn thti Antarctic coast to the South Pole and return without airdrops or any othC'!' out• WGLLIN'GTON side support failed Tuesday just short of South Pole. on 
Howling winds, blindi11g blizzards. unbelievable cold, day numbt)r 70. doep crevasses, illness, frostbite. A helicopter from the Amundsen-Scott South Pole U.S. 
One after another, the same obstacles that eventually base dropped food to the trio, whose supplies had dwin­killnd British explorer Robert Scott and his cornpanions dled because of del:iys. The airdrop conh\irrnd crackers, thwarted a modern attempt to recniate their HI-fated, beefjerky, smoked oysters and svrnots, along with th(• sta­1911-12 bid to m11.rch to the South Pole and back. ple diet of high-calorie cereals and meat swimming in 
"I'm a bag of bones," Peter Hillary, son of Antarctic olive oil and butter. explore,· and Mount Hverest conqueror Sir Edmund The throe mun, who ha_d only unjoyed tr(:lats of omi lol­HUlary, said in a ra1·0 telephono int.orviow from hi(> frozen lipop each on Christmas Day, really appreciated the n('W journey. food, Hillary said. 
''Tnwo.rd the end of each two-hour sledding session. I'm Once they reach the South Pole in about 10 days, they dcspcrato for some food to give me energy -I have no will fly to New Zealand's Scott Base on Hoss Island. From reserves of strength left.'' he said Tuesday night v.ia satel­there, they are expected to t1y to Christchurch, Ne,w lite telephone rrom his campsite 140 miles t'rom the South Zealand, hy .Jan. 26. Pol(), Hillary said he and his comrades tlwught often about 
lie spoke from n tiny nylon tent where he was camped the ill-fated Scott, who reached the pole only to find that wit!1 his Australian companions, Eric Phillips and Jon Norwegian Roa.Id Amundsen had beaten him then} by Muir, .-. , . "" , , _, ,,-,_ ·.. ,,_, Weeks_, Scott and bis men died on the journey back. 
page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, January 14, 1999 
Budget 
continued from page I 
sion-making body and that the Club Coordination Council, which has six of the Cabinet's 18 seats, would have undue influence. 
O'Donoghuc suggested the bill be returned to the Oversight Committee for further revision. That proposal was rejected. 
other senators voiced concern that there was not enough guid­ance for the Cabinet with regard to funding decisions. 
"There's no clear-cut way laid out how the funds will be given," said Carroll senator Pat Foy. "H's not that I don't trust [the Executive Cabinet] with the $14,000, but it seems there's no control over who gets that $14,000." 

The fact that the plan had been agreed upon by most of the Executive Cabinet and many senators as an alternative to dramatically changing club funding seemed to work in its favor, however. 
"This debate is about the fact that the senate wants the power to tell the Executive Cabinet what thev can and can not do." said Diilon senator Jason Linster. "This lbill] was sup­posed to be a sign of' faith that we trust the Executive Cabinet. We can't oversee everything." 
¦ CORRECTION 


Students interested in meeting, interviewing and ~vah.w:ting four candidates fot the positionofSaint Mar~'s vice and dean of faculty ~ht1uld ,~!m.t.G:t N.~r1,1,y ~J Georgeanna Rosenbush 'as/fhe 0bserver1:eportfld: :, . 
The Observer regrets the error. 

fitne~~ ~pring





CJJA:utni~
~chedule 1999 
RSRC Activity Room 1 
12:15-12:45  Step I  M/F  
2  12: 15-12:45  Cardio Box  w  
3  3: 15-4: 15  Step I  M/W/F  
4  4:20-5:20  Step II  M/W/F  
5  5:30-6:30  AeroStep  M/W/F  
6  4:25-5:25  Cardio Combo  T/Th  
7  5:30-6:45  Step II n' Sculpt  T/Th  
8  12:00-1:00  Step II  Sa  
9  l:I0-1:30  All Abs  Sa  
lO  3:00-4:00  Cardio Choice  Su  
11  4:15-5:00  Step II  Su  
12  5:10-5:30  All Abs  Su  
RSRC Activitx Room 2  

$22 $12 $35 $35 $35 $22 $30 $12 $10 $12 $12 $10 

13  4:10-5:25  Cardio Sculpt  M/W  $30  
14  5:25-6:10  Lo Impact  M/W  $22  
15  7:20-8:20am  Cardio Choice  T/Th  $15(until 3/4)  
16  4:00-4:45  Step I  T/Th  $25  
!7  4:55-5:15  All Abs  T/Th  $15  
18  5:25-6:10  Flex & Tone  T/Th  $22  
19  5:00-6:15  Dbl Stepn'Sculpt Su  $15  
ROCKNE CLASSES (Room 301)  
20  6:35-7:20am  Step II  MJWIF  ,  $35  
21  4:30-5:30  Hi Intensity  M/W  $22  
22  12: 15-12:45  Flex & Tone  T/Th  $22  
23  5:30-6:30  Step II  T/Th  $27  
AQUATIC CLASSES {Rolfs A<;iuatic Center}  

24 12: 15-12:45 Aquacise M/W/F $22 25 6:45-7:45pm Aquacise T/Th $22 
Registration begins Thursday, January 14, 7:30am, RSRC. Classes 
are open to NDstudents, staff, faculty and their spouses. Registration 
continues throughout the semester. Schedule is subject to change. 
Minimum of 12 class regisrants. Any ?s, call 1-6100. 
THElOTH 


NOTRE 

Student body president Peter Cesaro agreed. noting that the measure was agrocd upon last month, and that the details can be worked out easily among the concerned groups. 
The measure was approved by a vote of 22-3. 
Undl~r the plan, 2.25 percent of the Sludent Union budget will be placed under the control of the Executive Cabinet, which can disperse this money among campus organizations for event sponsorship provided that at least one club and one other Student Union organization are involved in the event. This mea­sure is temporary :rnd must he reviewed again when next year's budget is compihid. 
This idea originated at last month's meeting. at which a proposal was made to guaran­tee that clubs receive 39 per­
cent of the Student Union bud­get. A lower figure of 36.7 5 percent was also proposed, and was approved, but only after fierce debate that ended with an agreement that the 2.25 percent difference be used for co-spon­sored activities. 
For the 1998-99 fiscal year, clubs and organizations were guarantfied $198,000, or approximately 34 percent of the budget, and received exactly that amount. No other branch of the Student Union has a mini­mum level of' funding. 
In other senate news: 
• The senate's attempts to got backpacks allowed in South Dining Hall was dealt another defeat when lhe body received a letter from associate vice presi­dent for Business Operations .lames Lyphout saying that ho intended to maintain the cur­rent policy, under which book­bags are not permitted in the cafeteria or seating areas. The senate appealed to Lyphout after director of Food Services David Prentkowski turned down their request. 
The senate has been working to change tho new bat:kpack poli<.:y since it was adopted in August. Whilo their efforts on that issue have been unsu<.:cess­ful, tho body has opened up a continuing dialogue about other dining hall concerns with the department of Food Services. 
• Three new senators took office this week, replacing indi­viduals who went abroad f'or tho semester. The new members are Christine Jacobs from Howard Hall, Mcrndith Sonnycalb from McGlinn llall and Kelly Starman of Pasquerilla East. 



GET IN THE 



THICK 
OF IT.

REASONS 
to Head to Heartland for 

COLLEGE NIGHT 

THURSDAYS
eONLY A COUPLE WEEKS .. TpGETBACK .. IN•,;HAPE .. FOR 

NBA SEASON 
GFREE T-Shirts G) 99¢ Specials 

Conveniently located in the heart of downtown South Bend, Old Chicago 99¢ Cover;t~~enl !.D 
Steakhouse has the hottest grill in town, serving up a NEW MENU of juicy USDA 
Kick-off the weekend early 

prime filet mignons, t-boncs, and ribeyes 
at South Bend's 

(as well chicken, burgers and salads, too). 
BIGGEST PARTY 


See why steaks are our consuming passion. 
222 S. MICHIGAN• SOUTH BEND 222 S. MICHIGAN (219) 234-5200 SOUTH BEND (219) 234-5200 
w•,:w oceplaces com/heartland 
ANNUAL 


DAME 







FESTIVAL 
•All :right,this is my
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 & 9:45PM 

last idea ..

J U RY 22 23 
$3 ADMISSION SNITE MUSEUM OF ART T'here I s these t WO girls. SPECIAL ENCORE SHOWING MONDAY JAN.25 7:30 PM ...and it's their first communion. PRESENTED BY THE 
... well anyway 1
DEPARTMENT OF FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE www.nd.edu/~cothweb a horror film!. 


STUDENT 
Thursday, January I4, 1999 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Page 7 
-·-------. 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Every Wednesday Night 10:00-10:30 pm, Welsh Hall 
MBA Retreat 
Friday-Saturday, January 15-16, St. Joe Hall 
NOE Team Retreat #54 
Saturday, January 161 St. Joe Hall 
Freshmen Team Retreat #20 
Sunday, January 17t St. Joe Hall 
Confirmation Program-Rite of Welcome 
Sunday, January 17, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Freshman Retreat #21 (February 12-13) Sign-Up 
Beginning Monday, January 18, 103 
Hesburgh Library, 112 Badin Hall, or see your Rector. 
-·· . .• i . • ; 
A Celebration in Honor of Dr. Martin Luther king, Jr. The Norm of Greatness: Daring to Seek the Truth 
Monday, January 18, 7:00 pm, 
LaFortune Ballroom: Theatrical 
Portrayal of Dr. King by Actor Darryl 
Van Leer. Wednesday, January 20, 
8:00 pm, Keenan-Stanford Chapel: 
Prayer Service: a Biblicaf Perspective 
Thursday, January 21, 6:00 pm, LaFortune Ballroom: Dialogue with underrepresented students on their ND experience 
Celebration Choir Rehearsal 
Beginning Wednesday, January 20, 8:30-9:45 pm, Earth Sciences Bldg. Contact Karen Kirner at 631-9326 
SECOND SUNDAY IN ORDINARY TIME 
Weekend Preslders at Sacred Heart Basilica Saturday, January 16 
5:00 p.m. Rev. David J. Scheidler, C.S.C. 
Sunday, January 17 
10:00 a.m. Rev. John A. Herman, C.S.C. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. John E. Conley, C.S.C. 
Scripture Readings 
1st Reading Isaiah 49: 3. 5-6 2nd Reading 1 Corinthians 1: 1-3 Gospel John 1: 29-34 

The Norm of Greatness 
Jim Lies, C.S.C. 
How do we detern;iine who is great among us? Who decides just what great­ness looks like? I fear that if it were left to society the measures would miss the mark. Things like wealth, or appearances, or relative fame, or even athletic prowess, would be held up over virtue, or the degree to which one is willing to sac­rifice, or to love. The greatne~s that Jesus held up had little to do with charm, or grades, or good-looks, or money. The norm of greatness for Jesus had to do with humility, kindness, mercy, patience and love. 
Tomorrow we celebrate the 70th anniversary of the birth of a child, born to a middle-income African American family in Atlanta, Georgia, who would forever change how we view ourselves as Americans, and who would redefine for us, as a nation, the m_easure of our greatness. On Monday, January 18, our nation will mark with a national holiday the life and heritage of an unlikely hero, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. One of the great activists for social change, Dr. King believed deeply in nonviolence. Reverend Samuel McKinney of Mt. Zion Baptist Church in Seattle has said, "King was willing to challenge the evil ofhatred and racism by putting his own life on the line. He did not run from bigotry but he was willing to face it head­on. He was willing to fight it, but not fight back." Dr. King was, and is, a beacon of hope for oppressed people everywhere, even,right here on our campus. 
Whatever one might think of him, Dr. King's contribution to this nation and the world are undeniable. He woke a world from complacency and indifference, and articulated a dream which has given hope to generations of Americans. That dream is a universal one, one which seeks love and justice for all people, regardless of race or creed. It is a quest that this community must claim as its own. The Gospel which we here so proudly profess, demands it of us. That this man should have engendered negative feelings among much of white society is of little surprise, I suppose, when one considers the turmoil that followed him wherever he went. And yet, surely, we can think of others, whom I need not name, around whom just such turmoil swirled and whom we have not so readily dismissed. 
Growing up, I think we all trusted what we learned in school, that America was a fair nation, a melting pot that treated people equally. It doesn't take a rocket scientist, even here at Notre Dame, to realize that that may not be true. The princi­ples of fairness and equality do not necessarily extend to all. Even more disconcert­ing than the reality that we might be victims of such discrimination is the sad reali­ty that we might actually be perpetrators of it. If we are to achieve the kind of inclusive society of which King dreamed, especially in our ever more diverse and multicultural society, then we all have a role to play. It is not only the message of Dr. King, but it is as well the call of the gospel and of Jesus Christ. 
I am stunned to realize that Dr. King, at the age of 35, a year younger than I am now, had already won the Nobel Peace Prize. Only four years later, at 39, he would die a martyr's death for standing against hatred and discrimination. All that he accomplished in his short life would leave me embarrassed at my own feeble attempts at justice if it didn't at the same time give me so much hope. It is stunning to think what one person can do, and perhaps even more amazing to think what an entire community could do if it only joined together in a common cause for justice and equality. Mine may only be at this time to write a simple exhortatory letter in the Observer about Dr. King and all that he stood for. Yours may be simply to urge those in your world to love, regardless of race or ethnicity or religion or orientation. We all have a part to play in the realization of the dream. 
For some months the MLK Celebration Planning Committee has been meeting to prepare a series of programs that we hope will further an appreciation of the richness and diversity of all peoples on this campus and beyond. Please join with us in reflecting on and redefining our norm of greatness. Please join with us in cele­brating the rich diversity of this community by attending the events which will take place next week, which will be advertised in these pages. And finally, a word of thanks to Stephanie Foster, Spencer Stefka, and the Student Senate for their work on next Thursday night's program; and thanks, too, to the members of the MLK Celebrations Planning Committee (listed below) for their remarkable spirit and tire­less efforts on behalf of our entire community. 
Rodney Coe  Otis Hill  Chandra Johnson  Cris Saldana  
Monique Chinsee  Kevin Huie  Jim Lies, C.S.C., Chair  Priscilla Wong  
Jed D'Ercole  Cheryl.Igiri  Iris Outlaw  Chak Kei Woo  

.Please God, we all share the one hope that all people can come together to stand against racism, discrimination and indifference; and that this campus com­munity's norm of greatness can include an appreciation of the dignity of each mem­ber. It is the call of us all. l will not pretend to be able to say it any better than Dr. King himself, and so I close with his words, not mine: 
I refuse to accept the view that mankind is so tragically bound to the starless night of 

-
racism and war that the brig/it daybreak of peace and brotherhood can never become a 


0MPUS
reality... I believe that unarmed truth and unconditional love will have the final word. 

MINISTRY 




VIEWPOINT 
page 8 


·THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O·. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MA1n's OFFICE.; 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CH!H H<'1tbe, Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGtR Brian Reimhalc:r Kyle Carlin 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Heather MacKenzie 
News Eo1roR ....... ,. ...............Michelle Krnpa ADVERTISl:--lG MANACER.•.................•.... B.rv:m Lmz VtEWPOINT EnrroR .. . .... Ed11ardo Llull AD OES!<:N MANAGFR ....................... .lhen Huebr SPORTS EDITOR ... Kathleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGFR .. ............. Michad Brouillet ScrNf EDITORS..... . .. .............. .Sarah Dylag CONTRO!.LFR.. .. .............Dave Rogero 
Kristi Klit~ch WEB ADMINISTRATOR .............. Je~nifcr Breslow SAINT MARY'S ErnTOR ........'vi, Sliaunon Ryan GRAPHICS EmrOIL ............................. Pere Cildb PHOTO En1roR , ..................... Kevin Dalum 
The Olm::rVtf is l'hc.: indrpenJmr ncw!ipaptr puhlb.hc:J by (he sru<lenl.'> ofthe Univcr.siJ}' ofNoere D.a.m<: du Lac und Saiur M,uy's C.oU~, lt doe. not ni::cc.,,sarily rel1c-ct the polkic:s of Ult: .1.dministra(ion of d1hcr instimdon, The ncv;.s is n.-portcd as :1..;:i;uracdy aml obj,:nivdy as pos.::.ibk lT11:.ii;rn:d cdimri'1ls reprt.:.<:nr the opinion of the majority c,f the F.ditor-in~a1icf, M ..nr..ging Editor, &~istJnt M.1m1ging Editor Jml dcparrmcnt editor'i. Commentartcs, leucrs .md columns rre..,e·ru rhc view~ orthe authors, and nm nece~.1rilr those ofThe Ob~erver. Vicwpoinr spaa i:; av;iil.ible to :ill membcr5 of the Notre n.1mc/Saint Mu:/s rnm1m1nity arid ro :1ll reader.~. The free cxprei.sion l'.'1[ varying Orinions lhrough lcnt"rs is e11cour:.1g«I 
Contacting The Observer 
Ediror-in-Chicf 631-4542 Bw.incss Of/ice 631-5313 M.n.\iing Editor/Assistant ME 631-454 l Advertising 63l-G900/8840 News, Photo • 631-5323 Sy:itcms 63l-8839 Spom 631-4543 f.ax 63 I-G927 Sccnt!S.inr Mary', 631-4540 Vicwpoi11t E-Mail Viewpoint. l@nd.edu Day Ediror/Viewpoinr 631-5303 Ad E-Mail observtr@dJ.rvijn.cc.nd.edu Office Manai;cr/General lnformario.n 63l-747l N,w, E-Mail cibsciver.obsnews. 1@nd.edu 
¦ lrnrn ro rnE Eonor. 
Bradley's Presence was a Shocking Betrayal 
I understand that during the fall 
· semester of 1998, Sen. Bill Bradley was a visiting professor and held a series of lec­tures at Notre Dame. Watching the evening news a few days ago, I learned that the former se,nator is now "building a coalition" for a prospective presidential bid. It struck me that these t_wo circum­stances arc not related by mere chance: Notre Dame being the premier Catholic university in the U.S., and Bradley's desire to garner support among the cat1101ic electorate. It saddens me that Notre Dame allowed Bradley to hold a teaching position with full knowledge of his anti-life and anti­Catholic voting record. While in the U.S. Senate Bradley had a straight pro-abor­tion voting record. In fact, Bradley was one of the most radical supporters of unrestricted abortion on demand. On one occa-,ion, he even voted against a bill which would have exempted Catholic hospitals and health care facilities from performing abortions. In other words, Sen. Bradley is on record in support of forcing Catholic hospitals to kill preborn children! In the fall of 1988, not long after h,is vote against exempting Catholic health care facilities from performing abortions, Sen. Bradley was nominated to receive the "Fr. John Dubois Award" at Mount Saint Mary's College in Emmitsburg, Md. Fr. Dubois founded Mount Saint Mary's College and Seminary in 1808, and the award in his name is given by the college to individuals who uphold Catholic prin­ciples and values. Shamefully, the college faculty nominated Bradley for the Dubois award, caring not for his pro-abortion voting record. Seminarians at Mount Saint Mary's Seminary. of which r was one at the time, were outraged at this action. With the approval of the seminary rector we orga­nized a protest on the evenirrg Bradley received the Dubois Award. Over 100 seminarians and seminary faculty 

of the Sanctity of Human Life 
formed two long lines, prayed the Rosary and held signs outside lhe entrance to the college chapel. where the award was given. 
In 1990 Pope John Pauli'! issued an Apostolic Exhortation on Catholic higher education titled Ex Corde Ecclesia (From the Heart of the Church), in which he described the identity and mission of Catholic colleges and universities and port of abortion on demand, how can the University of Notre Dame, in having allowed Sen. Bradley to lecture there, claim to be in accord with the teaching ol' the Holy See in Ex Corde Ecclosia and the guidelines proposed by the U.S. bish­ops for implementation of this papal doc­ument? Did Bradley's presence further the Catholic identitv of Notre Dame in its witness to the relaiionship between truth 
provided norms to help fulfill its vision. · and reason, and the authentic meaning In their meeting in Washington, D.C. last of human life? Hardly! Would it not be 
fall, U.S. bishops pro­posed a dral't for imple­menting Ex Corde Ecclesia (ECE) through­out this country (see Origins, Dec. 3; 1998, Vol. 28: No. 25, pp. 438 and fl). 
In Part One of the draft document, "Theological and Pastoral Principles," the bishops say, "In a secu­lar world the strong Catholic identity of our institutes of higher 
'IF NOTRE DAME HOPFS 
TO MAINTAIN ITS INTEGRITY AS A CATHOLIC UNIVERSITY •.• IT MUST DEMAND THAT INDIVIDUAIB 
SUCH AS SEN. BRADLEY PUB­
LICLY RENOUNCE THEIR POSI­TIONS IN SUPPORT OF ABOR­TION ON DEMAND.' 
learning is an invaluable instrument of grace witnessing to the relationship of truth and reason. the call of the revealed word and the authentic meaning of human life. 'The present age is in urgent need ... of proclaiming the meaning of truth, that fundamental value without which freedom, justice and human digni­ty are extinguished'"(ECE I, 4). 
In Part Four, entitled "Faculty," the bishops instruct: "All professors, espe­cially those teaching the theological dis­ciplines, are expected to exhibit not only academic competence but integrity of doctrine and good character. When these qualities are found to be lacking, the uni­versity statutes afo to specify the compe­tent authority and the process to be fol­lowed to remedy the situation" (emphasis added). 
In light of his long standing public sup-more honest to say that, knowing Bradley's voting record in favor of abortion, his pre!?ence as a visiting professor undermined the mean­ing and dignity of 
human life, and the relationship between truth and reason? 
As John Paul II said so eloquently in Evangelium Vitae (The Gospel of Life): "Faced with so many opposing 
points of view, and a widespread rejec­tion of sound doctrine concerning human life, we can feel that Paul's entreaty to Timothy is also addressed to us: 'Preach the word, be urgent in season and out of season, convince. rebuke, and exhort, be unfailing in patience in teaching' (2 Tim 4:2). This exhortation should resound with special force in the hearts of those members of the Church who directly share, in different ways, in her mission as 'teacher' of the truth ... We must use appropriate means to defend the faithful from all teaching which is contrary to it. We need to make sure that in theological faculties, seminaries and Catholic institu­tions sound doctrine is taught, explained and more fully investigated. May Paul's exhortation strike a chord in all theolo­gians. pastors, teachers and in all those responsible for catechesis and the forma­tion ofconsciences. Aware of their specif­ic role, may they never be so grievously irresponsible so as to betray the truth and their own mission by proposing per­sonal ideas contrary to the Gospel of Life as faithfully presented and interpreted by the Magisterium" (No. 82) (emphasis in original). 
At their meeting last fall the U.S. bish­ops also adopted a statement entitled, "Living the Gospel of Life: A Challenge to American Catholics." Addressing so­called "pro-choice" officials, they said: ..We urge those Catholic oflicials who choose to depart from Church teaching on the inviolability of human life in their public life to consider the consequences for their own spiritual well-being as well as the scandal theyrisk by leading others into serious sin. We call them to re11ect on the grave contradiction of assuming public roles and presenting themselves as credible Catholics when their actions on fundamental issues of human life are not in agreement with Church teaching" (No. 32). 
These words of our bishops should extend to Catholic institutions of higher education when they choose to employ teaching faculty -especially notable fig­ures like Sen. Bradley who have served in public office. If Notre Dame hopes to maintain its integrity as a Catholic uni­versity, and to avoid giving grave scandal to the Catholic faith and leading others into serious sin, it must demand that individuals such as Sen. Bradley publicly renounce their positions in support of abortion on demand. and profess adher­ence to the Church's defined teaching on the sanctity of human life from concep­tion until natural death, as a condition to holding any teaching position with the university. 
Fr. Dwight P. Campbell, JD. Pastor, Sr. Thomas Church, Philo, II. January 4, I998 
¦ 0.UOTE OF THE DAY 
, It's wonderful to be here in the great state of Chicago.' 
-Dan Quayle 
¦ DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 



VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, January 14, l 999 ------------------
--------------------------page 9 
¦ FOR A MORE Jusr AND HUMANE WORLD 
A Richer Way of Knowing 
"I lrnlicvo llial combining llw analytical and homeless people here. There are those and the 11xp11rinntial is a richer way or who have devoted their lives to the needs of knowing." their neighbors. The people of South Bend 
-bBII hooks are ethnically and cuhurally diverse. This city. nestled in a bend of the great St. 
This Wf\Ck I got u call from Chief Coleman Joseph River, has a history that includes of tlw Soulh Bnnd !!!li!!!l=:!!:!!!!li!!!l!!!!!!!!-!!!!!!!!!:!!!!!!!!!!!!!:!!!!i!!:!!!:!!!!i!!:!!~=~~ negotiations between l'olicP. I le was look-Catholic missionaries ing for young. ahle-and Potowatomi Chiefs
K th 
boclilid stuclm1ts to for the land that is now
a y
shov11l snow for pco-tlm site of our great pin who wnrn not University. Notre Dame ahlfl to donr tlwir is part and parcel of the

Royer
housns and cars ol' City of South Bend. Our 
thn piles ol' whiln stuff that hlankntml our city last wePk. I hope that we will !ind somn stud1mts who will In~ abln to lwlp out. Obviously this is an opportunity for students to contribute to tlw wi<IPr com1n1111ity. to share their youth 
am! energy with thosP 
who, for ~~~ 
whall'ver ~ mason. don't havn tlw physical strn11gth to dig out from 11nd('I' tlw 
Wl\ighl of tlw r1H:m1l snow­fall. My hop!! is huilt on moro than just. tlw opportunity 
'i 
for sl11tl1rnts i1 to do good. I I/ srni this as a IJ way for slu­dm1ts t11 11nrirh tlw knowledge thal thny arn acquiring as tlrny study at Notn\ Damn. Wlwn liv11 young, slrong Nolrt• I>am11 s111­tlPnls knol'k 011 tlw door 111' a11 1•lcl1•rly couplP, SIJO\,\' shnwls in hand. to offor llwir hPlp. tlwy 
will lw invil-P(! inw !lw 
( 
th•cs 1>fpco-__..--·-·-· -· ~ 
11 
p 1· w 10 /' l111Vt! storiPs lo tdl. Thcs11 storins will expand our k11igh!.s-i11-goosn-down-j11ckf'ts' knowlflclgf' of our world. Our wPil-inlPntionod students may IParn that our culturn dotis not ad1•­quat,,ly value tlw oldorly who live among us. Thny might lmirn sonwlhing about the nronomics of aging. Tlwy may gain know!­Pdgt• ahoul tlw physical chitt>rioration that takt\S plan\ as l hi' hody ages. TIH\Y co111d Pv1·11 discowr that public st•rvicm; in our r·11111111u11itv ai·t• minimal and do nut acl<lrnss tho IHH'ds ·or till' 1•ldm·ly. Thny may begin to (flll'Stion sonw assumptions that they hav11 always lwld about privatci prnpnrly and i11dividual rcsponsi!Jilily. Tlwsc pieces of i11for11111tio11 und insight will go witll our d1ivali'o11s shoVPh\rs back to school. Wlrnn llwy sil i.11 history r.lass or discuss mmlical ethics or n1ad a slwrt story by Flannery O'C()nnor, limy will havn hacl an nxpnrience that i11forms and Pnriclws lhnir academic nncll'avors. 
Our University is locatcc.l in a mmlium sized city wlwre pt•opln live rich and int11r­11sti11g !ivtis. Tlwrn are children here. There urn disubhid peoplll horu. Tlwrn arc poor stories are twined together from the begin­ning. South Bend offers a 
wealth of' experience for you students who come to increase your knowledge. South Bend offers you the opportunity to add depth and color to the black and white, 
two-dimen­sional knowl­0 edge thal you 
\t/ ~ , ~ 
\ · /
J1/
½/ 
/ ,,/ // 
.J 
/ 
/ ~/,· / / 
1 /, 
~/ f ,,,,..--­
0 
~ 
//}'./ ,,,­ 
,  
r  
,,/ ~  ,,,,.--..r  
~  

~,1,4~ 
~-'--> <..::::. 
encounter in 
the class­
room. 
I would go so far as to assert that book learning 
without the rich variety of' 
experience will leave you with less than 
a first-dass education. If you want to leave Notre Dame well educated, you must give some of your time to living. It is necessary that a well-educated per­son expcri­ence a wide variety of 
people and situations so that the knowledge he or she creates is held in tlrn context of the lives of people with different points of view. South Bend wnl­
comns you. The pcopln who live in South Bend 
are nager and willing to share their lives with yoll. Many of those pcuple will boat the Social Concerns Fostival next Thursday, January 21. Pleasti como and add some cx1wricncc lo your acu.demic schedulo. You wilt c·crtainly find son11~thi11g that is rnlo­vant to the work you arc doing in tho class­room. Ovnr 40 groups and urganizations will lw at thn Ct>nter for Social Concerns l'rom 7 -1) pm to tell you about their pro­grams and invite you to boconrn involvprl. Don't lot this opportunity for a more com­pletn Nlucation pass y()u Ly. It is as impor­tant. as rngistt>ring for clnssf\S. 
Kathy Hoy1\r is tlw Director of Community l'artnnrships and Snrvice Learning at thn Center for Social Conrnrns. E-mail com­ments to: NIJ.ndcntrsc.1@nd.edu 
For A More Just And Ilumanc World is a bi-weekly column sponsored by tlrn Center for Social Concerns. The author's views do n()t necessarily reflect the views of the C1\ntN for Social Concerns or Thr. Obsurvnr. 
¦ LETTERto· THE EDITOR 



In Search of a 
,i; .
'." ········ S . H
,~·· ~-,..·av1ng ero 
Onib'e' ....·· .... ol'Nov. 22; 1~?8;.• ~r 1M~tJil,:~rf<l..a c~rdiat 
arrest .ui.·tU.~ $l~!'.UUill pa.rkmg lot of the Notr.e..IJaJn~~l,SQ football. game. His friends ~efi~~ that tho good Samaritans who initiated CPR were college students or may have been nurses but we have not bnen able to find out who these ''heroes" are. We do know tha~ becattse ofyour unselfish and h9roic actions you saved·hi.,; life, Words cannot express our.grati~qd,~rcy: .~iyip;g us a 
. Jh4nksgmng · truly: be thankful for.• J\Yt.:i~ l}.~tyou; nqr 
you, 'tif~v~rin·sueh a crt Jlt pray that 
you, e ...•.... ·... . . . ..· }1'e:that 
total stra,ngers eatell enoughto 
help ourfatMt;''WEl f{now it is a 
miracle that he survived and that 
your efforts ar:etruly appreciated. 
Lastly, we want to extend our 
•. gi;e.Utude for giving us mwther 
·Christmas with our husband, father, grandpa, and most recently, grnat• grandpa. If this lett1:1r should reach you, please contact me at (219) 926­1354 or e-mail at cooley@netnitco.net. 
May God bless you and your loved ones. 
Anne Warieka Wife Joyce and Gi:eg Cooley Bob aud Ann Warieka Steve and Kay Grabek Children JiU, Jennifer and Brittany Cooley · Johri and Jody Warieka Laurie and Kenny Edmond Steven and Rachael Grabek Darrin Grabek Grandchildren Emily Edmond Grent-grand.auglner 
¦ LETTER TO THE EDITOR 


Beware, the 
Millenium Draws Near 
Let us hope that this message will reach all of' the people of th1~ world so that they may be forewarned. 
The lirst of the four horsemen ol' lhe Apocalypse has been riding for the last two decades "as a con­queror bent on conquest" mev. fi:2). A much acclaimed spiritual leader is busily trying to form a one-world religion under his leadership. Once this loador ends nr completes his mission, the next three horsemen will ride out in painfully swift sequence and tlui effect of their mis­sions will leave 1,500,000,000 peo­plH doad or dying. Neither our reli­gious, nor our civil leaders am warning our people of these upcom­ing tragedies of world war, world famine and world pestilence, so that they will not be caught by total sur­prbe. 
The Scripture reveals that 25 per­cent of the earth's population will be killed and this would !ll<lan that over 50,000,000 Americans will be killed or die of starvation an<l dis­m1se. The war between the nations is not the only war that is looming in the near fulure, for when this spiritual leader completes his mis­
. . .. . . .. . . .. .. ". 
-
sion ol' a one-world religion, under his leadership, he will bring those who oppose his doctrinos undor persecution just as tho case during the dark and middle agns. lln will also be powerful enough to exnrcisll a high level of control ovnr the one­world government already existing -tho United Nations. 
Since tho final countdown for our Lord's return is obviously hngin­ning, I pray that thosn who arn fol­lowing any leadnrship otlrnr than Christ, the Scriptures and tlw Iloly Spirit will burn tho billions of hooks. m11gazirrns and newspapors that ketip them in hondag11 t.o t.hn "Synagogue of Satan" (B1w. 2:IJ and 3:<J) and the churclrns of thosn who aro of the antichrist (I .In. 2:18, 2:22, 4:3, and 2 Jn. I :7). Plnaso con­tact. I.he edit.or ol' your papnr who has printed this artidn and thank him or her for they have beconrn one of the workers of thn final har­vest (Mat. 9::~8). 
Bro. Raymont Senn 
P!casam Grove, Al. 
December 22, 1998 





LET IT SNOW! or NO 
Winter weather suprises, pie students who have never e 

By COURTENAY MYERS 
Scene \'Iv'ricer 
We knew it was too good to last. The 60-degree temperatures that spoiled us during the early days of Decemher are only a memory now. 
Welcome to South Bend Winter -the longest season of the year. 
This is not a shocking news Oasb to most stu­dents. The signs that Old Man Winter has arrived, however belatedly, are inescapable. Upper class­men and people from snow-attracting places knew what they should expect upon returning to school -blowing, drifting, icy, wet and cold snow. All in very large quantities. 
However. for Saint Ed's Freshman Eric Barroso, a resident of sunny Orlando, ·Fla., this winter has been the first time he has ever seen snow. 
"It's awesome. I had no idea what it would be like and no idea it would be so powdery," Barroso said. 
Not scared by the Midwestern tundra yet, he says the weather will not stop him from going to class. 
Freshman Michael Maguire, an Alumni Hall resi­dent, knew to be prepared for the cold after leav­ing his home in Naples, Fl. Family members living in the South Bend area alerted him to the weather conditions before he began school here. Maguire has seen snow before. despite living in Florida, including a 10-foot accumulation in one night dur­ing a stay in Germany. 
Maguire also says that he will not skip class due to the weather and offers a few words of advice to less winter-acquainted peers -"Don't eat the yel­low snow." 
"Most of New Mexico has snow," said Lyons Hall freshman Katharine Ortega. She also explained that her home city of Santa Fe is in the mountains so snow is not unusual for her. 
Amber Dunnam. a freshman from Lubbock, 
Texas living in McGlinn, said that west Texas also receives some snow, evAn enough for a white Christmas last year. The volume of snow in South Bend, however. is new to her. 
"It's really pretty, but I'm a little nervous that I'll get sick of it when it gets dirty," said Dunnam. After nne dav of classes, she said that the snow has not stopped her from attending and is opti­mistic that the trend will continue. 
'HERE'S SOME ADVICE ­ DON'T EAT THE YEL­ 
LOW SNOW."  
MICHAEL MAGUIRE  
FRESHi'vJAN, ALUMNI HALL  

Keenan freshman Eric Nelson got a little bit of a shock leaving his beautiful 75-degree home in Van Nuys, Calif. He said he has seen snow before, but usually only in two-minute spurts that melt imme­diately. nothing like this. 
"It's weird, not bad, but it's all white and blind­ing when the sun is out," said Nelson. 
Overall, Nelson is pretty upbeat about the frigid conditions, but he does have one complaint. 
"On the way to the dining hall some of my friends from 4-North pushed me into a drift and buried me. That kind of sucked," he said. 
Nelson said that his flights from California and Chicago were not affected by the weather. Not everyone was as lucky. 
Senior Jennifer Coleman knows the kind of trou­ble snow can cause. After flying into Chicago from her home in Las Vegas, she landed and found out that her connecting !light tn South Bend had been canceled. The airline gave her a 10-dollar vouch­er with which she could amuse herself for two hours until she could catch a bus to South !fond. The airline neglected, however. to find all or her luggage in lime and she was forced to miss the bus. Ultimately. the weather pushed Coleman's South Bend arrival four hours later than plannnd. 
Lewis sophomore Lia llill had similar problems in Chicago. Coming from her home in Honolulu, Hawaii. llill said that most flights to South Bend 
were canceled. Like Coleman, she opted for the bus as Plan B. Hill said there were about 80 peo­ple waiting, so she braved the cold and waited outside the terminal by the bus stop. 
When the bus finally pulled in an hour latn she got a seat, but said that there was a mad rush of people who had been waiting in the terminal and the bus had to leave about :rn of them behind. 
Despite her nightmare trip back to school. llill does not think the snow is too horrible. She has seen it a couple of' times before while visiting her grandmother in South Bend. 
"I've been tempted to jump into it. It just looks so soft, especially the hill behind Lewis," she said. 
Regardless of opinions about the weather and the massive snow piles that will eventually turn to slush, one thing is for sure -winter is here to stay. It could be a very long time until the sun graces this campus again, so for those who enjoy the snow, there should be plenty of time in which to do just that -to makn snowmen, throw friends into drifts and to try to eat falling Oakes. 
For others, who may not relish the slippery treks to class, just keep dreaming of' spring break. 
And for the professors, plnasn note that everyone asked said that the weathnr will not keep thnm from your classes. You have some very dedicated students. 



C 
n 
s 
O
THE
Thursday, January 14, 1999 -------------------page 11
BSERVER 




.gthe Game 
\'·•'•' 
e,being played. Have you noticed? And when it g;it sometimes seems like almost ovm-yon,~ is phiying. ht11ot be porfectly cloar, but somohow we 1111 catch on 
;:>!'.. 
'lt19>'.Nns ber.u.use it's ea.,;y to think a.bout tho game and to take arisk by being honest iJ:1 a real ri~httionship. 
pfuy the game? dare,sickoftbe game, have compiJed a slightly sa.tlrical, somewhat silly quiz for you to find out.
1Gt~w::. .··· 
tJfyou see your object of obsession walking down the quad do 
·y<lu:··· 
a),futyour head down. avoid all eye contact and pretend not to 
see h.imlber? 
h) LQokright at him/her and give tll(i cool 'head nod?' 1,JStop and talk his/her ear off? 
,--. .. 
2:YoiJseeyour object of obsession out with his/her l'riP.nds. Do yomr... ... .. . 
• ~)~9,direct eye contact with h.imlber. then keep walking by'? 
b) Walk over toyour object of obsession with anothi~r member of 
· x and introduce thii two? over and have a nice chat? . 
. object of Qhsossion finally hook up. The next 
f opse~l.on apd ti~llhimlher that you're trans• our toormnitt.es to s1;reen t\11 phono cn.lls. ~y and then hook up with someone else. 
.er·to dinner. 
l!ilve ada.te withyour object ofobsession and afterwards 
• t.o<call. Do you;. canataJJ? 
•· ·.. ···•···.· .• ~tleast twoweeks and then call when you know he/she.•will eat home? 
· c)Give a call the next day Md tell him/her that you had 1\ nice tithe? :Jff> 

tHt•sMonday.You have a dance on Saturday. You want t.o go·wUl!yQut ol,)j~t of obsession. Do you: aJQµlbim/ber on Saturday two hours before the dance'? . ll)Mentionthe dance on Monday, but wait until Friday to nsk biili,her? 
·· e}Mk b.im!ber on Monday? 
. ,,. '•'· . 
·6'.JtisiValentine's Day. Do you:
n~)'.'<:~llyout object ofobsession at 7 p.m. to make sure that hi>/Shll doe~n'lha,ve any plans and then tell him/her that you're going out · wtthyoµr friends? 
l:j).'.fa.M @meone out for lunch, someone ,~Ise out to dinner iuul 
' ' .. )hyourobject of obsession later'? }ac date with your·object of obsession? 
...,.., 
page 12 The Observer• SPORTS Wednesday, January 14, 1999 
¦ SAINT MARv'S SWIMMING
-

Belles show improvement in loss to Alma 

By KATIE FURMAN and THERESE SVAROVSKY Sports Writers 
The water was crystal clear and the air balmy and beauti­ful, as the Saint Mary's women dove into their sixth competi­tion of the Belles' swimming season. 
The Rolfs Aquatic Center was the perfect place to take on the Alma Scots. 
Jini Cook, the Belles' head swimming coach of' two years, hoped that her team would meet the challenge that the Scots would pose. 
"Alma is third in the confer­ence. so they are one of the top teams," Cook said. 
The Belles· did put up a great fight losing 147-83. Discounting the 26 points in diving which Saint Mary's can­not counter, they only came up 
,:'··.t::?:0-= 
Since ifinimY···J going·to the Su season, he's appa; t'or retirement in 
In a ·stunning • Johiisoh plarin
Thursday from .
Dor ... sand do .h~:ll ·· Ii againsaid \Vednesday The J)olphins . ed s·aturdaffr 
playofts 3g;3 at · ' their bid to pl 
tBh\\'1,Q 
.niy told rei.LdytJOretire. a s~~tCafl.Joying hi Jtihnsop said fro PQrt••Atthur;·•ttr
th,¢ $¢a$onwo . .. . . h~f~a~ glll
·• the b"'5t news 
loi:Ig tinle.">
jqg· to .. Jo hisson
"'Qrhim in coaching, ~ going down to 'j1oridaKeys a 
.notisedown 
Johnson;!55;
r~maJrti.ng<on h 
After·his·.··tllird Miami endedSa't th~ most fopsid defeat in team history, Jo on talked optimistically a))putnext season,·buthe hasnl met with••·• 
the media since then. <·.· · The death of'. Jolinson'i 
short of Alma's strong perfor­mance by 38 points -the smallest margin or loss since Cook began coaching two years ago. 
In order to increase the Helles' physical strength and team unity, the women headed south to Florida for week dur­ing Christmas break. 
"For as hard as they worked in Florida and as tired as thev are, they swam wonderfully tonight," Cook said. "In Florida we trained three times a day and swam in an olympic size pool. We got a lot of base in, in other words, we swam a lot of yardage. The girls physically and emotionally bonded. Now these girls are in the best shape they've been in for two years." · Throughout the meet, the Belles stood out in their indi­vidual as well as relay events. 
The last relay orthe night high­lighted the meet as the Saint Mary's 200 freestyle relay team completed their race in one second less than previous runs with a time of 1:49. 
"The outstanding swimmers tonight wore Alicia Lesneskie in the 1000 freestyle, Olivia Smith in the 500 Freestyle, Danielle Clayton and Wendy Neumann who went one and two in freestyle, Tara Thomas in the 100 backstroke and Michelle Samreta in the 100 breaststroke," Cook said. "Danielle Clayton had a won­derful split on her last relay with a time of 25.6 seconds, beating the record by .4 sec­onds." 
With the assistance of these and the rest of the Belles' suc­cessful swimming, the team achieved personal and team goals as their season and over• aH performances continue to greatest role models and improve. always have positive things to 
"Two things that I think are say about our events and they great improvements over last always focus on the these year are the number of swim­aspects," Tierney said. mers, I think Coach Cook has Not only did the girls swim done an excellent job recruit­well but they also impressed ing, and secondly it's great to their fans. have home meets this year "The girls dedication to their because we didn't have any sport and persistence has last year," said Jan Travis. impressed me, they look like 
Meghan Meyer agreed: "I they are genial hosts,() said enjoy swimming because it's Saint Mary's alumna Maureen great to be a part of a team Sullivan. that cares for you and no mat­After the meet, the coach and ter what are there to support swimmers were pleased with you. Home meets are fun the results and continue to because you feel more confi­strive to improve their times. dent in your own water." "I am just really excited 
Along with home pool advan­because we swim at Olivet tage, Jeanne Tierney believes College on Saturday and they that the influence of the senior only have four swimmers so swimmers has a great and pos­the girls will swim off races," itive effect on the rest of the Cook said, who anticipates team. improvement in times and a 
"All together they are the win. 
¦ NBA 
Ford hired as head coach of Clippers 
Associated Press ish the underdog role. 
"All I know is this is a new 
LOS ANGELES day, a new beginning for us," 
Chris Ford realizes what he's Ford said. "The players have a 
up against as coach of the Los dean slate with me. If they're 
Angeles Clippers, perennially ready to work, there's no prob­
one of the NBA's worst teams. lem.. Nevertheless, he's excited 'Tm looking forward to the about the future. sunshine here and trying to 
"This is the hand I've been build this team back to 
dealt," Ford said Wednesday respectability. 
after being introduced as the Ford, who turned 50 
19th coach in Clippers history Monday, signed a three-year 
and the seventh in the 1990s. contract with the Clippers 
"Why worry about anything worth nearly $3 million . 
else? I think it's a great oppor­"I've had conversations with 
tunity. a lot of people in this league 
"They've been ridden pretty about Chris Ford," Clippers 
hard. Every coach would like to general manager Elgin Baylor 
think they can come into a situ­said. "I've heard nothing but 
ation and make it better. positive reports . 
There's nothing better than "He's an ex-player, 1 think 
knocking off the king of the he's very good at relating to 
hill. the players." 
"When you win only 17 Jim Brewer, an assistant 
games, there's a lot of room for under Fitch for the last four 
improvement." seasons, and Jim Todd. an 
Fired as coach of the assistant under Ford in 
Milwaukee Bucks last August, Milwaukee the last two years,
Ford succeeds Bill Fitch, who will be assistants under Ford 
was dismissed nearly nine with the Clippers. 
months ago after guiding the "Our job is to try to blend 
Clippers to a 17-65 record, them (players) to respect each 
third-worst in the NBA. other, be willing to sacrifice for 
The Clippers were 99-229 in each other, be willing to make 
four seasons under Fitch; have the commitment to do what's 
made the playoffs just three necessary to win," Ford said. 
times since 1976; and have had "You must pay the price.
only one winning season since You've got to going out there 
1979. That being the case, it's and work hard. That's what 
a good thing Ford seems to rel· our ethic is going to be." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 

Classifieds 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES  or a thrilling ride down a white water rapids.Hassling with an overcrowd­ HOUSE FOR RENT  Beautiful brass bed,queen size, with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe  did you know that i am really tired of  
.,..,..  Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise!5N1ghts $27911ncludes Meals & Free Parties!Awesome Beaches,Nightlife!Departs From FloridalCancun & Jamaica $3991spnngbreaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 Spring Break Panama City $129!Boardwalk Room w/Kitchen Next To Clubsl7 Parties-Free Drinks!Daytona $149!South Beach $129!Cocoa Beach $149!spring­breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386  ed beach at a local lake or hiking with wildlife?Summer with the same old crowd or meeting your new l:lest fr1end?L1fe is full of choices.Let us offer you ours. St. Mary's Lodge and Resort,!;llacier·s f111est is now hiring for the 1999 summef season.Call (800)368-3689 to schedule an inter• view or e-mail your name and mail­ing address to jobs@glcpark.com for an application.Check out our web s,te at www.glcpark.com to learn about the  TWO BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. 4-5 BR. Available June for Summer, August tor Fall, Dishwasher, Washer/Dryer, Full Basement. Large Backyard and Off Street Parking. MONITORED SECURITY SYSTEM INCLUDED. CAii 289-4712. WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6BEDROOM STARTING $185 MONTH/PERSON 232-2595  frame. New.never used,still in plas­tic.$225 219-862-4043 TICKETS NEED 4 TICKETS TO -ND/MICH. HOCKEY GAME PLEASE CALL 4-3441 PERSONAL ALLEN-here's your classified. are you satisfied .now, miss clairol?  okay, so kessler doesn't believe i en fill up the classifieds .. but i bet him icould so here goes \did you know that it is only 17 days Iii GROUNDHOG DAY??? did you know i couldn't go out tonight because i had to work? did you know that the dining hall has really stupid rules? did you know that every dining hall worker who says we can't have  writing classiiieds? so i fall bak an the old trick .. writing classifieds to random people i know ... the mcglinn women's boxing contin• gent is the best. .. although those indian runs today wee a killer... especially when the wimp brigade 1ft us to suffer... welcome back laura petel!e! we  
backpcks in south used to own a  
...___W._'.A_N_T_E_D__....11  ioo~;~;u:NT  NICE HOMES FOR NEXT  diane-thanks for withstanding all my emotiveness.  book-carrying device o some kind  are  
Cash for "Irish Impact" poster. ND/PSU 800-417-1072 ext. 4800. Which would you choose?A morn­ing commute filled with heavy traffic  3BEDROOM HOME IN ROSE­LAND AVAILABLE NOW 277-3097  SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND 8,6,4,3,BEDROOM 2773097 FOR SALE  who's rustling in the chocolate?! we hear you! No class on tuesday or thursday. loola, doola  thats only hearsay, though., did you know that i am going to mardl gras? did you know that london is 5 hours ahead of our time zone?  almost done with this  

Thmsday, January 14, 1999 The Observer• PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13
-
-
,::;··,. 
,, i -,' 
.; 
/ // 
:t 
We're looking .for thinkers. Not just their diplomas. 
-
It's all about making an impact. If interested in interviewing for full-time or summer internship positions please submit a resume, personal data sheet, and transcript to Career and Placement on Monday, January 18 and Tuesday, January 19. 
You know you're more than a piece class clients to help them achieve Take this opportunity to talk to us about of paper. You're bursting with ideas and profound change. After all, it takes yourself, and most importantly, your ideas. insights that can change the world of powerful ideas to align strategy with 
Visit our Web site at www.ac.com
business. And at Andersen Consulting, people, process and technology. we want them. We'll provide first-rate training and As a leading global management and guidance, and expose you to a variety of technology consulting organization, we projects and industries. All of which builds 

Andersen 
bring our insights and ideas to world-a solid foundation for your future. 

Consulting 
01998 Andersen Consulting. All rights "served. An equal opportunity employer. 
Thursday, January 14, 1999 

Retired 
continued from page 20 pie in a lot of people's lives and never really been enjoyed by me becausr. of my schedule and because of the things that I've done over the las.t 14 years. "Sure there's a lot of busi­ness opportunities there and that won't consume me, but that certainly will take away some or the competitive juices that will be left over from not playing basketball. For the most part I'm just going to enjoy life and do some of the things that I've never done before." His wife, Juanita, doesn't see things changing drastically, however. "My life won't change at all," she said. "I can see Michael doing more carpooling. That's about it." Agent David Falk said Jordan's immediate business interest is an athleth.: apparel company "Brand Jordan." · "He has a lot of corporate affiliations. He has to decide what the next challenges are, what the next mental chal­lenges are and how much of his time he wants to devote to corporate activities and how much he wants to devote to private activities," Falk said. Don't expect to hear the words "Coach Jordan." He has no plans. like Larry Bird, to return to the game and draw up plays on the sideline. "l could never say never," 
Swi01 
continued from page 20 
ever seen. 
"The training was just fan­tastic," said volunteer assistant coach Rob Fellrath. "It will be a good stepping stone to sue-
The Observer. SPORTS 
KRT photo 
Michael Jordan, who won six NBA championships with the Chicago Bulls and brought home six le.ague 

were training-wise, and it gave us a good opportunity to meet the Texas guys. It was a great opportunity for the men to race against the finest compe­tition in the U.S.," Fellrath said. 
"Things look great," said assistant coach Jonathan Jennings. "Ever since we've 
MVP awards, will now devote his time to his wife and their three children. 
Jordan said. "But I want to get think Jordan's competitiveness away from basketball a little will eventually lead back to the bit and look at it from afar. game, maybe even as a player 
"Right now, the only coach­again. After all, he's unretired ing I can do it at home and I'm before. having a tough time doing Ex-teammate Craig Hodges that." knows Jordan will keep play­
There are those who are ing somewhere, even if it's in the driveway or his own gym. 
'Tm sure he'll play basket­ball. It's not like he'll never pick up a basketball again." Hodges said. "It's just there won't be 20,000 people watch­ing ~im when he goes to work out. 
been back, spirits have been high, team camaraderie has been the best it's been all year, workouts have been phenome­nal, and everyone is fighting to get better." 
The men now prepare to travel to Lansing, Mich., to take on Michigan State this weekend. 
page 14 


Jordan 
continued from page 20 
Jordan privately. 
"A bittersweet day. He opened a lot of doors for a lot of people," said Brown, one or just four Bulls under contract. 
"He is the game," Wennington said. "Jt will be tough for basketball to replace Michael Jordan." 
Phil Jackson, the Zen­espousing ex-Hippie who won Jordan over as his coach and converted him to the sharc­the-ball principles of the tri­angle offense, didn't make it. 
Jackson, who quit the Bulls himself last summer after championship No. 6, was trav­eling, said his agent Todd Musburger. But Jackson did issue a statement. 
"For our own selfish reasons we never wanted to see Michael Jordan retire," Jackson said. 
"He represented our person­al flight of fantasy about what great things an individual can do and he made it look so easy." 
Jordan's usual entrance into the United Center was from an underground parking garage where he could get out of his vehicle of choice and take a short walk to the locker room without much hassle. 
On Wednesday, he entered through a mid-level concourse opening, an entourage sur­rounding him. 
Tired, wanting to spend more time with his family, Jordan said it was time to go out when he was still able to play the game at its highest level. 
"I think mentally it's been over for a while, but physical­ly I think he could go right here and do something," said Peterson, one of his closest friends. 
"He's Michael." 
cess in the second ·semester, and definitely to success in the Big East Championships." 
A scrimmage meet against No. 2 Texas gave the Irish a chance to compete against some of the nation's best swimmers. 
"The meet against Texas was a good indicator of where we 
-

page 15 The Observer• SPORTS Thursday, January 14, 1999 
--------------------·--------------------------------­
-
¦ SOCCER 
¦ BASKETBALL 


NSCM recognizes Cutler, Murphy 
Special lo the Ohscrvcr 
University of Notrn Damn nwn 's socc,•r play11rs Phil Murphy and David Cutlnr havn h111rn nanrnd Lo thn Nalional Soec1\r Coaches Associalion of Amt>ric,1 (NSC:AA) for the North/C1rntl'lll Hogion. Murphy was a first-t1•am s1•lnction. whilt• Cut!Pr nanwd sccond­tf'alll honors. 
Murphy, wh11 is Pnrollnd in thP Colln~11 of Businnss Administration as a finance major. has lw1111 nanwd to tlrn l>P1t11's I.isl. nadi of his snvpn Sl'llll'S!tirS al. Notro Damn and has tiilrllNI a 4 .00 gradn point for l'ot1r cn11sen1livc senwstt,rs. Murphy, a 1·0-captai11 011 1.!w Irish sor.r,•r tna111 this season, owns a :i.l/08 grndP point avm·­agt• throu~h s<WI\Il :wnwstnrs. 
¦ HOCKEY 
A two-year starter and for­nrnr walk-cm, thn Irish dol'cndcr led his squad to a 9-3-6 record this sen.son. A three-time mem­ber of the Big EastAcadcmic All-Star toam anti three-year lcttorwinner, hn was one of' seven players in 1998 lo start all 18 games. I le was thn rccipi­ont of tho Notre Dame National Monogram Club MVP award for the 1997 season and alsn was one or 12 students on campus to rnc1iive the Notni Dame Office ol' Studt1nt Activities Student Leadership Awurd in the spring of I 99S. Last sum­tntlr, he participalnd in the NCAA Foundation Lnadership Confor1•nc1i. lie finished his career wilh onn carnr,r assist. 
Cutlnr. has lJnnn a rnemlmr of the Dean's l.ist oarh or his nine scmm;ttffs al Notre Danrn. The recipienr of the 1998 Hockrrn Student-Athlete, he is a l'if'th­year senior in the five-year architer,tural program at Notre Dame aud is enrolled i11 the College orArchitecturn. 
Cutler also was an 18-game starter l'or the Irish, and during his four-your earner started all but live games he played. As a freshman in 1994, he did not see action in any game but as a sophomore in 1995. ho started all 19 contests. Cutler missed tlrnl 996 campaign while study­ing abroad in Italy. but returned in 1997 to start 16 of 21 garnns. 
lie had a goal and two assists in his four-year careAr. Ile has a 3.750 overall grado point averag11 and has been twice named to tlw Big East Academic All-Star Team. 



Karr notches defensive award 

Special 10 1hr Ob.1crvcr 
NofrP IJa11rn snnior fiorn~st Karr has hmm named tlw c,~ntral Coll1•giatP llockey Associalion defen­sivP player of Lh11 wrnik for Urn sncond limo this s<'ason. following a 48-savc pcrformanco last wcuk in wins ovlil' Bowling Groen (4-11 and Miami (2-0). 
Karr allowPd just one goal during llw WP.ckm1d -a sccond-p,1riod, pow,~r-play scorn by the Falcons -whil1i dirncling an Irish defense that killml 11i1w of IO opponent pownr-play clwnt.es. I le had 2(, savns in thu win at BG and 22 versus Miami liir his socond carnnr shutout. 
Karr's 2.:i1J season goals-against average is on (J/H:n to hcsl thn Notre D,rnw rm:ord of 2. 70, set liL-;t s<'ason by four-year startnr Malt Eisler, while Karr·s .r)o I snason save percnntage ranks third in Irish history. 
K11rr is tlw lifth Notre Dcmw goaltender ever to post two career shutouL~ and is the first to post two shutouts in llrn same season, with his earlier shutout coming after a 16-savc effort in tlrn 3-0 win over No. 9 Ohio State on Oct. 23. 
During the current Irish three-game winning streak, Karr. has totaled 83 saves and just four goals allowed (throe of them on the power play). including a 35-savn performanr,e in the 4-3 win at No. 1 North Dakota. In 20 games overall this sea­son. Karr has allowed jusl 23 even-strength goals. 
For his career, Karr owns a record of 20-17-3 (including 18-9-3 during the past two season, 12­7-1 on the road and 4-3-2 vs. top-10 teams}. Ile is 5-0-0 in his earner vs. Bowling Green, including 4­0-0 at the BGSU Ice Arena. 
Karr also earned CCHi\ defensive playe'r of the week honors on Oct. 11. after totaling 43 saves and allowing just one even-strength goal in wins over Lake Superior (4-2) and Western Michigan (7-1 ). 
r------~------------------------------­!'$tudeM Auivities l'l<b i"'1tnedi<'lte epeVli~~s fe-r l 
I 
z"f J.l"". L--~ut\~e Mefttt((i)l"~ 
Heu""~; z4m -74m<Stufts= 1-z ttmes 4'4NeeJ< 
Appli~#ilo'V\:! 4v<'lil4ble t n5 L-tiFlilrl:UV\e 
L ______________________________________ J 
RESPECT LIFE WALK 
Join us in the Right to life Family Walk in Downtown South Bend starting at the Knights of Columbus Council -553. E. Washington. 
2:00 p.m. Please Bring baby items to donate at Knights of Columbus Council 
2:30 p.m. Century Center -Bendix Theater Respect Life Program 
Dr. Joel Brind Ph. . of Paugh Keepsic, N. Y., Main Speaker. Topic: "Connection between abortion and Breast Cancer." Featured on lV. and Radio Networks CNN, CBS. CBC, NPR, and ABC. Articles in Newsweek, U.S. News &World Report. Bring your Friends 
4:00 p.m. resfreshments at Knights of Columbus Council -553 E. Washington 

Abortion is Child Abuse· Murner in the Womb 
The Natural Choice is Life 
• Sponsored by the 
Tutuiglits of <IIulmnbus 
Michiana Councils 
•·.·... • . 
·JJF .. . . r . . 
, 
-



Murphy, Riley earn conference honors 
Special to the Observer 
Irish basketball standouts Ruth Riley and Troy Murphy have been selected as the Big Easr Player of the Week and co-Big East Hookie of the Week, respectively. for their perfor­mances last week. 
Hiley, a 6-5 center, earns the honor for the second time this season as she averaged 29.5 points and 10.0 rebounds in leading Notre Dame to two vic­tories last week versus West Virginia (111-90) and Providence (79-56}. Hiley net­ted a career-high 36 points and grabbed 13 rebounds for her 

seventh double-double ol' the season and 16th of her career against Providence. 
The :Hi points were the sec­ond highest single-game point­total in Irish womens basket­ball history equalling that of Beth Morgan who scored 36 points in Notre Dames win over Alabama in the 1997 East Regional semifinal game. She also had 23 points and seven rebounds in the win over West Virginia. 
Hiley, a three-time Big East Rookie of the Week a year ago, shot 75.9 percent from the field in the two contests and was 15­for-18 from the freethrow line. 
For the fourth time in five weeks, and the fifth time this season, Murphy claimed the leagues rookie of the week as he shared tlrn honor with Dahnlay Jones of Rutgers. The Irish freshman averaged 20.0 points and 8.3 rebounds in Notre Dames 2-1 week. lie has led or tied Notre Dame in scor­ing in eight of the last 12 games and in 12 of 16 contests. 
Murphy notched his fifth dou­ble-double of the season when he scored 30 points (tying his personal bestl and grabbed 10 rebounds versus Pittsburgh. lie registered 17 points· and seven rebounds against Villanova and scored 13 points and grabbed eight rebounds in the Miami game. 

._ 
..... ' 
page 16 The Observer• PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, January 14, 1999 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE Student Activities Board (SAB) Spring 1999 Events 
Januaiy 
15 "Rounder's• Carroll Auditorium 8 pm 
16 Hotel Prati (band) Dalloway's 9-11 pm 
20 Open Mic Night Dalloway's 8-10 pm 
February 
5 Think Fast (Game show) Noble Dining Halt 
(Win $200 cash) 11 :30-1 :30 pm 
25 Frederick Winters, hypnotist Dalloway's 8 pm 
26 "Beloved• (panel discussion to follow movie) Carroll Auditorium 7 pm 
•t>t 

April 
14 Open Mic Night Daltoway's 8-10 pm 
22 SMCTostal Library Green 12 pm-12 am 
March 
3 Open Mic Night Dalloway's 8-10 pm 
19 "You've Got Mail• Carrotl Auditorium 8 pm 
20 "You've Got Mail• Carroll Auditorium 8 pm 
24. Frances Dilorinzo, comedienne 
LeMans Lobby 8 pm 
27 Junior Mom's Weekend/Oassics Weekend •An Affair to Remember• •casablanca• Carrotl Auditorium 7 pm and 9 pm 
28 •Gone With the Wind. Carroll Auditorium 7 pm 


page 17 The Observer• SPORTS Thursday, January 14, 1999 
¦ SAINT MARV'S BASKETBALL

The Photo department is looking for lab 
SMC falls to Albion,
technicians. If interested, call 1-8767 
Calvin over break 
In every field of competition, the outcome is determined by the players. 
Take ,rny environment, from the most simplistic to the most advanced, and you'll notice one common thread. People. They're the key to success, discovt"ry, to the future itself. 
At Ht"witt, we've bceu putting people first for decades. Of courst", that's our bminess. We're a global consulting firm spnializing in human resource solutions. Wt"'ve become an industry lt•ader hy neating a culture that encourages tean1work, innovative thinking and personal growth. 
What docs it mean for you? Imagine reaching your potential. You can do it at Hewitt. Majors that have traditionally been successful in our organization: Accounting, Actuarial Science, Computer Science, Economics, Finance, Math, MIS or Statistics. 
For mort" information, including 
upcoming campus events, visit our website at www.hewitt.com or send your resume to: Hewitt Associates LLC, 
I 00 Half Day Road, Lincolnshire, IL 60069. Fax: 847-295-0679. E-mail: careers/a hewiu.corn. As a strategy for our continued success and our vision for continuing to foster an inclusive environment, we seek individuals who will provide a diverse range of talem, perspectives, experience, and backgrounds. Hewitt is an equal opportunity employer. 
Saint "Mary's College Notre Dame 
26TH ANNUAL 


LONDON SUMMER 
PROGRAM 

Professor Tom Parisi 54 Madeleva Hall,. Room 347 37 Madeleva Hall, Room 152 Saint Mary's College Saint Mary's College 
Notre Dame, fndiana 46556 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 284-4462 (219) 284-4529 dstefanc(a)saintmarys.edu tparisi@)saintmarys.edu 
Professor David Stefancic 
Fax: London Summer Program (219) 284-4716 
By MOLLY MCVOY 
Spores Writer 
Christmas break was anything but restful for the Saint Mary's basketball team as they dropped two tough ones to Albion College and Calvin College. 
On Jan. 6, the Belles played Calvin, the top-ranked team in the MIA;\ and lost 69-49. They played tough and had it within eight, but Calvin proved to be too much.The offense seemed to hold it together, shooting .339 from the floor and .538 l'rom the line. Calvin out-rebounded the Belles, 2-l, however, conse­quently keeping control of the game. 
"Calvin is just a good team all around," said senior co-captain Nicole Giffin. "They're a pretty experienced team and overall, we played them well." 
Giffin had an especially tough break, suffering an injury that will call for imrgery and put her out for the rest of the Belles' season. 

The game the Belles' played against Albion was a morn even­ly matched game. The Belles often held the lead and Saint Mary's out-rebounded Albion in this game. They also turned the ball over with more frequency, however. 
Their foul shooting was again impn~ssive later in the game. This time they shot .824 from Urn line. Nevertheless, Albioq pulled it out, winning 68-63. 
"We should have beaten them," said Gitnn. "We have to got to start turning it up on defense to suprise some poople. That is Urn bottom line on Albion." 
Leading the Belles with 18 points was senior co-captain Charlotte Albrecht, who ·also pulled down seven rPbounds. Freshman center Kelly Jones, who had 10 points. The Belles look to improve on their 3-10 record as they face morn confer­ence play in the corning weeks. 
1/20 
1/23 1/27 1/30 2/3 2/6 
2/9 
2/13 . 2/16 2/20 2/23 2/25 2/27 
Adrian College Hope College Alma College @Olivet College Kalamazoo College @Calvin College @Albion College Defiance College Anderson University @Adrian College MIAA Playoff MIAA Playoff MIAA Championship 
--------------,-------­
page 18 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, January 14, 1999 
-

Thought about being a"priQst but just not ready?
I#ijil~\)~:;:~:?\/
_., •. ,,,:,:<,•···:.,..-' -,-•_..,,, 

"Want to kn.ow more first? 
Then take the 'lun~fthfrYear~t Notre Dame! 
r· . -.••··--·· 
~,v>:-;.-:i .. ·... -\_:'~1\Y-;· .. -. __ · . __. -::·::"Yf.i-t\tv
Afive-week immersi'CXh".experience in commu:nity life with college students considering a religious vocation. 
Sponsored by the Congregation of Holy Cross, founders of ND and growing into the 21st century with more than 1700 priests, brothers, and seminarians on five continents. Participants receive upper-level theology credits. Total cost $150 plus personal expenses. 
CHRIST EXPECTS GREAT THINGS FROM YOUNG PEOPLE 
:~j:i;f:!>"­
--POPE JOHN PAUL II . 
Plunge runs May 20 to June 25, 1999. Current college students including graduating seniors eligible. Apply now. 
Only 15 spots available. 


ANSWER -:d:;­THECALL '<J>I 

Vocation Office Box 541 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
(219) 631-6385 
Fr. Jim King, C.S.C. Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. 
www.nd.edu/~vocation
Vocation Director Associate Vocation Director 
..... 

page 19 The Observer• TODAY Wednesday, January 14, 1999 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF ND DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
YEAH GtJYS I jVSi l;/ANrEb To CALL 8cCAl)5€ ['V€ so~ OF Bt:EN T>ELAYED 
M 1HE ROA I), 
SO I /'1l~HT NOT (jf T T/IE
co,1,1 1c /N. 
FOXTROT 
~ 00 1 \-\EY ~NOW WH.i\T'll 'lOU CREATE
VENTUR£ CAPlT~LI~iS 
J ~OIJ'RE Lf:,..-Z.'t A~O B~S10E5 /:\CCOUNTIN
GIA.VE /V\£. MONE',' TO 
; DI5HONE.ST? IRRE.Guu~.RI.TI.E5?
STA.RT A WEB-Bt>-5t0 
ll
eu5INE55, 
§ IT 0I0N'T THP.,T'5 /\LL 
COME. UP. t HA\/E 11-\t 
..__,I\.V.).) WU KU 
ACROSS 29 Trompe I'--s& Those of Juan's (art illusion) things
1 Science fiction 31 Minerva's 58 Melodic Melba award symbol 62 "I hear you!" 
sObi-Wan, for one 32 "Big deal," said ~eplie~ the seat, 
(,he po,?kets, 65 Like some 9 E-mail nuisance 
13 Football antibiotics
37 Fabled loser 6& Isabel II, e.g. 
Hall-of-Farner 
-Page 38 Speak of love 67 lrk-aholic?
14 Pulls some 
39 Scheme levers 
68 lt's under layers 41 "Oh dear!" cried 
69 Former Orr 15 Florence flooder the waist, 
1, " teammate,16 "Alas'" sighed familiarly!,he je~.n legs, 46 Home in space 
70 The terrible-­47 Big video game
19 Character actor Wynn name 
DOWN
48 Model-turned­actress Carol 1 Peddle 20 Confirm 
21 Bonkers 22 Some blues 
49 1997 Spielberg 21997 Peter movie 
Fond" +itlr,=t.
24 Unkept yard, ., nelded 
e.g. 53 Carrel filler 4 Uninterruptedly
2& Chase scene? 55 "Far r-.1!'' 
s"Mud" 6 1998 erupter ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 7 Probe (into) 
8 Words after G G O ''peekaboo" 0 AD 9Blue 0 T O 10 Look at things to 
come? 
..:::.i~~~.:.:..~:...:.i-:.:+::::..,r11111111111 11 Co-Nobelist With Menachem 
12 Jacques Cousteau's world 
14 Plywood layer 17 Lazy waters 1a Highland pants 
2.a Because ~R:-1-,0-W~E:-1-,L-1 25 Incline 
I< 0 0 I< Y 26 6-0own output 
tfJilOCKEYJN -~. Alaska-Fairbanks 
Fri. Jan. 15 &,Sat. Jan. 16 7:00pm 
First 350 Stit:tle,,11,ts FREE 
' ·­
.. 
• I ,. I 
//"' 
E 
'v/EL L 1:>o you KNOW HOW LoJ.lf':; 1'f4E b€lAY WIU 
BE? 
IS "INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING'' LoWERCASE? 

BILL AMEND 
f1RST  LOOk', ONCE I'M  
THINGS  CAPtTAI.IZED,  
f1RST?.'?  I'LL BUY IBM  
I  oR SoMETH ING  

AND THE Po1NT'Ll BE MooT,
~-c-~­
ok? 
I 
SCOTT ADAMS 
THURSDAY, JANUARY 14, 1999 
CELEBRITIES llORN ON THIS OAY: Dan Schn<>id~r, Mario<> Cortner. Lawrence Kasdan, Yukio Mishima, luhan Bond, Faye Dunaway 
Happy Birthday: You will have to make a concerted effort h, push your­self in order to reach your set goals Opportunities will be present, but they won't just happ,,n. If you don't take the initiative, you'"' not likely lo move forward. This is not the time to sil back letting everyone else do the work. If you don't contnbute, you Lan't expect to make gain..;. Your num• bers: II, 13, 21, 39, 42, 48 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't gel involved in clubs or organizations that will cost you big bucks in order to join. Arguments with friends will occur if you forgot something that is important to them. 00000 
TAURUS \April 20-May 20): Anger will mount, and you will find it next to impossible to avoid con­frontations. People will ask you to do things lhat are beyond your means Don't be taken advantage of. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Per­sonal situations will develop into major dilemmas if you try to put demands on others. Your mate will be reluctant to bend to your terms especially if you are looking for a commitment. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You must be upfront and honest about your intentions when dealing with your personal partner. You may have a problem handling that individual's overindulgent quality. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your ideas are sound, and if you act upon them, money can be made. You may want to look into making changes in your home environment. Perhaps find a new pet or rearrange your 

,. .. INTEREST 
tte Dame Student Film Festival tlckets nre on 
'fl~l~ atthe Lafortune Information Dosk. Tickets are "$3. eaclla~d students are allowed to purchase six tick­·~tfper ID. The l'estlval shows at the Snite aro January 
2.2 and January 23 at 7:30 and 9:45 p.m. An extra encore showing is scheduled for January 25 at 7:30 p,m, 
Wanted: Reporters and photographers. Join The Observer staff. 
furnitun•. 00000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Tak,• the time to put l'xlra ct,,1a1l mto your hobbit•s or your cniative wnrk. Don't let friends or family talk you inlo sp<'ndin11 mor~ than )'<HI can r"ally afford. 00 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Ocl. 22): Upset due to uncertainties about your p,•r· sonal life and your living arrange­ments can br exp<'cted Try to get advice from an outsider you !rust Accept lh<' fact that you must mak,• a dt.'<"ision 0000 
SCORPIO (Oct. ZJ-Nov. 21): Don't lei others put you down You will ha~ to defmd your rights and your beliefs at all costs. You must rdram from l<>tting others persuade y(lu to do lhings you'd rather avoid 000 
SACITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): lrus is nol the day to gamble or make bets with friends. lt is best to sit back and let things n-st. To make a deosion regarding financ<'s would be a mis­take today 000 
CAPRICORN (D,c, 22-)an. 19): Point out your ideas and intt'ntions to your superior. You should concen­trate on getting ahead in business and impressing those who can help you accomplish your objectives. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. W•Feb. 18): You can get involved in a committed rela­tionship if you arc willmg to compro· mise. Involvement with clubs or fun organizations will bring you t;nnd fortune. You will be admired. 0000 
PISCES (Feb. l 9•March 20): Ynur need for mental and physical stimula• tion in your relahonships will cause you to make changes. Travel will pro­mote adventure. You will gain knowl­edge by observing foreign cultures 
00 
-
-
-
.,. 
..... 
27 Spicy cuisine 28 TV's Griffin JO Spinks and 
others 33 Pours 34 Was sweet (on) 35 Bone under a 
watch 36 Sweat 40 Dernolitionist's 
supply 42 Flea or gnat 43 Start of a 
correction 44 "To do" list 
4S·Geuntdown .deejay Casey 49 Bad lighting? 
60 Assuming , so 1984 skiing gold 
61 Small medalist amphibians 51 Notions 
63 Crispy 52 Doctor's orders sandwich ~4 Stealing: Prefix 64 Rock's Brian 
.l\nswers to any three clues in this puz.:le are available by touch-tone phone: 1 ·.900-420-5656 (95¢ per,ll)inute). 
Armual subscriptions are available for the b1>st of Sunday crosswords from the last ,~years: 1-888-7-ACAOSS. 
WILL IT HAVE A PRoOUcT? CUSToMERS? WILL 1T SERVE SoME USEFuL 
iJ 
PullPoSE? I'LL FIGURE 
ll-iAT oul EVEl'{TUA RIGHT Now, Fills .t TH1N6S F1RST.
' 
---.... I 
f 
.i 


¦ Saint Mary's basket­¦ Freshman Troy ball falls to 3-10 after Muphy earned his fifth losses to Albion and Big East rookie of the 
Calvin over break. week award. 
p.17 
-
PORTS 
p.15 
O 
THE 
page20 ------------------------Thursday, January I4, 1999
BSERVER 
¦ SWIMMING 
Women victorious at Rainbow Invitational 
By WES RICHARDSON 
Sports Writer 
Just in time for the start of classes, the men's and wome11's swim teams returned from intense training camps in San Antonio. Tex., and Honolulu, Hawaii, respectively. 
The women's two-week stay in Hawaii included a victory over eight teams to win the 24th annual Rainbow Invitational held .Jan. 2-3. 
With 151.5 points. the 23rd­ranked Irish outscored Illinois (126 points) and N(). 24 Texas A&M (118 points}. 
The 10th-ranked Mir.higan Wolverines. who was expected to win the meet. placed fourth with 112 points. 
Freshman diver Heather Mattingly was again a double winner for the Irish, heating all competition on both the one-and three-meter boards. Teammates Fran McCoppin and Jessica Johnstone followed in second and third place in the one-meter event. 
Kelly Hocking placed second in both the 100-and 200-yard backstroke. Liz Barger scored second-and third-place finish­es in the 100 and 200 butter­fly, while Allison Lloyd did the same with the 200 and 100 breaststroke. 
The unexpected victory was significant, according to co­captains Barger and Anne 
(ac()bucci, because it featured teams that the Irish will face in upcoming competitions. 
"The teams we beat at the 
'ITHINK WE'RE IN REACH OF THE GOLS AND ASPI­
ATIONS WE HAD AT THE 
BEGINNING OF THE YEAR, 
WE'RE READY TO HAE OUR 
BEST SEASON SO FAR.' 
BAILEY WEATHERS 
WOMEN'S HEAD SWIMMING COACH 
meet arc the teams we're look­ing to beat at NCJ\A's so it sets us up well for the end of the season," Barger said. 
"It was a really big step for us," said Iacobucci. "It gives us more confidence entering NCAA's and especially our dual meet against Michigan because now we feel we can beat them." 
The Irish narrowly lost to Michigan 1163-1151 in December's Notre Dame Invitational. They face the Wolverines a third time on Jan. 30 in dual meet action. and again at the NCAA Championships in March. 
Performance throughout the trip filled the Irish with a sense of optimism regarding the remainder of the season. 
"We swam faster than we have in previous years at that point of the season," Iacobucci noted. 
"We're reallv excited about the rest of th·e year." head coach Bailey Weathers said. "I think we're in reach of the goals and aspirations we had at the beginning of the year. I'm really optimistic about that. We're ready to have our best season so far." 
The men also returned from their training trip optimistic about upcoming meets. The 10-day tenure in Texas involved some of the most intense training the team has 
see SWIM/ page 14 
i¦ NBA 
I I Jordan announces retirement 
MJ to spend more time with family 
Associated Press 
CIIICAGO 
Picture Michael Jordan as the ultimate doting dad or a Little Lmtgue parent now that his playing days are appar­ently over. For a while, at least. 
Coaching doesn't appeal to him right now. llis business empire will still need tending and don't expect his string of endorsements. estimated to bring him around $45 million a year, to dry up now that he's not playing. There are plenty of golf courses to play, too. 
But for now, Jordan said he yearns to be a normal per­son. 
"I've heard him talking about his family and kids. I Jm;iond the question to him: 'Do you want to spend some time at IH><ne and [en\ like what's it like t\l be in a car­pool?' And he said, 'Yeah,"' former North Carolina room­matfl Buzz Peterson said. 
"My lifo takes on a different stage now and it's a different challenge and I welcome that and'1--.)rnew it was coming," Jordan said as he announcnd his retireinent Wednesday from tlrn game he ruled. 
Jordan and his wife have 
three children, including J.wo 
boys who. like Mike, play 
basketball. 
"I enjoy taking my kids to school. which I did that this morning. I normally enjoy pieking my kids up from school, which I look forward to doing," .Jordan said. 
"And watching my kids 
play. My wife and I have a 
fun time watching our kids 
play one-on-one, which is 
vP.ry entertaining. So those 
are things lhat seem so sim-
see RETIRED/ page l 4 
-
-
... 
Associated Press 
CIIICAGO 
Michael Jordan headed to midcourt at the United Center, the building where he won championships, stirred fans and created unforgettable· memories. 
His shaven head gleamed, his trademark smile flashed. Cameras. even more than usual. recorded his every move. Every eye was upon him. 
This time he wasn't on his way to the other end for a soaring dunk -even though the orange baskets looked inviting as they hung from the standards -or a last-second jumper to bring the Chicago Bulls another victory, another title. 
He was on his way to a new life: retirement No. 2. 
His wife joined him on the stage Wednesday, as did Bulls owner Jerrv Reinsdorf and NBA comniissioner David Stern. This was Jordan's day to reflect, to watch a spotlight shine on his retired '.'fo. 23, seconds after it was displayed for the second time in a little more than four years. 
The banner, sandwiched between Jerry Sloan's :\lo. 4 and Bob Love's No. 10, will have to be updated as will the bronze statue outside the United Center showing Jordan rising above a helpless defend-
Ier. The years on both -1984­93. 
Dressed impeccably as always, a bandage on his injured linger from a cigar c ting accident. a large rin ' an­gling from his le ar, the world's grea~t basketball player sair!1 '1'ie was at peace witJ,. ntiremcnt this time. 
"I-le earned a retirement," said longtime Bulls assistant Tex Winter, who joined the Bulls in .Jordan's second sea­son. 
'Tve been with Michael as a coach longer than anyone he's had. including Dean Smith. I don"t know what influence I had, certainly not as much as Dean had apparently. But there have been so many good mem­ories." 

Former and current team­mates were on hand. as were about 500 media members. Many sat on the floor on a court blocked off by a red cur­
• 
tain bearing a red Bti}ls insignia. 
"Michael came to work eve~ day and did his job better lhr-n everybody else," Paxson add1!d. "Bul be never settled for j~Sl being the best.·· 
Toni Kukoc, emotiona11y upset when Jordan retired the first time because he di;.ln't think he'd have a chanc~ play with him. was there 
Wednesday. So were Randy Bruwn, Bill Wennington, Keith 
Booth  and  former  North  
Carolina  roommate  Buzz  
Peterson.  

Other former teammates like Steve Kerr and Luc Longley stayed behind at the Berto Center to work out, saying they would prefer to speak or talk to 
see JORDAN/ page 14 
Men's Swimming 
at Villanova at Michigan State 
Sawrday, 1 p.m. 
Women's Swimming Friday, 7 p.m. 
SPORTS 
at Illinois 
/
ATA 

Friday, 6 p.m.
;at Pinsb,, -·b" 
vs. Alaska-Fairbanks 
Satur11'ay, lp,,f;l'l:i· '. 
Friday, 7 p.m. 
GLANCE 

t' 






