
The best of Fleck 
Happy Thanksgiving
Bela Fleck's new greatest hits album depends 

Tuesday
The Observer's next issue will be 
on dynamic instrumentals to lure 
Tuesday. Nov.30.1999. 
new and old fans alike. 
Have a nice break! 

NOVEMBER 23, 
Scene . page 13 

1999 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

VOLXXXIII N0.58 HTTP:/IOBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Students prepare to bid adieu to Dalloways 
• Historic landmark to be rebuilt in spring 2000 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE Sai111 Mary's Editor 
On th«) sr.dudl'cl northwest cor­nn r of Saint Marv's, i;ct back from the commoti1in of campus, a 78-ycar-old building sil'i quiet­ly. coming alive only when the stud1mls of" Saint Mary's invigo­ratn it with activity. 
Teetnring on the ouLmost bor­dnr. just to thr. lnft of IJoly Cross I!all, li«is tlw Clubhouse, home of tlw student-run coffee shop llalloways. The Clubhouse, a gift l'rom tlrn Class of 1922, has lwconrn a lype of retreat for Saint Mary's students. A spirillid plarn of' music and soft chatter over coffnn, social events and a plan\ where the walls whisper ol' tradition. it has evolved into a get-away for students who crave a chango orscmwry. 
Nnxt semnster Urn building will vanish. 
At a Board of Governance meeting last week, the questions surrounding the future of the Clubhousn were answernd when the Historical Preservation Committee made the recommen­daticm to the Board that the 78­year-old Clubhouse be recon­structed. The decision, which was the culmination of seven months worth of debate and dis­cussion about the Clubhouse, was "the only practical solution" tlrn comm ittee could make, according Lo vice president of finance and administration Krith Dennis. 
But a::; students and activity groups prepare to lose what has become one of the most cher­ishf\d spots on campus and adopt its replacement. a new set of questions emerge about tradi­tion, character and what the "new" 11alloways wi.11 mean to the community. 
Weighing the options 
Perhaps the biggest considera­tion in determining the Clubhouse's future was attempt­ing at all costs to preserve the building, said Julie Duba, a member of the Historical Preservation Committee who prnsentcd the recommendation to BOG last week. 
"One of our biggest considera­tions in making this decision was that the Clubhouse was a gift from the Class of 1922, and we wanted to respect that," Duba said. "We really struggled with wanting to retain the charm of the building. [If we decided to reconstruct], we didn't want it to be just another new building on campus -getting a facelift and losing some of those ties. We wanted to keep [the Clubhouse) alive." 
Hegardless of the Clubhouse's future, preserving the tradition and gift of the Class of 1922 remained integral through the discussion of three options the committee drafted, Duba said. 
The first option -to raze the Clubhouse and move student 

The Clubhouse, a gift from the Class of 1922, will be reconstructed this spring mirroring the characteristics of the current building. It is 78 years old. 
functions to the new student cen­original Clubhouse to an alter­Financial considerations also ter that will be constructed as a nate location, was a tempting played a role. part of the Campus Master Plan proposal but one that presented While the estimated cost of -was discussed and rejected by problems. moving the Clubhouse would the committee. "First of all, there is no clear­total approximately $450,000, 
"We wanted the Clubhouse to cut path to move the Clubhouse that did not include the cost of remain its own building," Duba without cutting down trees," potential renovations needed as said. "We felt strongly about Duba said. "Also, because the a result of damage that could that." structure is so old, who knows if 
A second proposal, moving the it would even survive the move?" 
see DALLOWAYS/page 6 

CLC discusses binge drinking, eating disorders 
By HELENA RAYAM 
News Wrircr 
Certain student-related issu11s arn "emorging as prior­itios" al tho University said Off'irn of' Studnnt Affairs Vice Prnsidenl i'athnr Mark Poorman tu the Campu::; Lil'e Council on Monday. 
"It is absolutdy imporativ1\ that we address the campus prohl!\111 of' bingn drinking," said Poorman. 
l>ivMsity awareness, gender rnlations and social spacn w11rn the otlrnr major topics that Poorman emphasized. 
In rnfornnce to binge drink­ing, he suggested that there arn a largur prnsonce of stu­cl11nts on campus that arc "a littln morn hold" in expressing their vi11ws on non-drinking. llowever. ho pointed out that during first-year students' face many pressures to drink 
when they arrive on campus. non-drinkers. 
"First year students learn Current campus events that how to socialize within the are non-alcoholic include the first two weeks that they are monthly dances at Alumni 
here."  said  Senior Club  
Poorman.  and  weekly  
II e Hxpressed concern  "ft is absolutely imperative lhal we  activities such as Acoustic  
about  the  address the campus  C  u  f  e  .  
large role alcohol plays in socializing  problem ofbinge drinking."  Although he acknowl­edged that  
possibly due  these options  
to  the  fact  Father Mark Poorman  were  good,  
that sopho­mores intro­duce it dur­ vice president, Office of Student Affairs  he warned "to steer clear of satu­ 
i  ll  g  rating  the  
Freshmen  market"  by  

Orientation. Poorman said offering the events too often. that the Office of Student Continuing to address social Affairs will investigate this issues among students, issue by working with the Poorman segued into the Office of Alcohol and Drug social comfort of minority stu­Education. lie will also con­dc n ts al the University. lle sider expanding social norm­ing programs that encouragr. 
see CLC/page 4 


,, ...  
Tuesd$y  
Thursday  
Friday~;  
.sar1rc1a.;; ::.~t-..Y...... .,'0'-"s,--·,...,f'\c.)  
~..~..~~~~ ~  ~ ru  
Show1Jrs  r-storms  Rain  Flurries  Snow  fCB  Sunny  Pt. Cloudy  Cloudy  
Via A$$0aated Preu Graphics/Jet  


page 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 
That's 
•
entertamment 
Let me first recognize a moment ofsilence in lieu of the disproportionate bashing given to Patrick McKeever in yesterday's edition ofThe Observer. Not since the infamous "parasite" letter insulting Saint Mary's students has a letter to the 
I 
editor received such hot-tem­
pered reactions. I would just 
like to make one more point 
on the situation: Cowboy Mouth stinks. And so does 
I 
any project involving that whiny punk from Matchbox 
20. 

Hey SUB, ifyou're con­
cerned with bringing us qual­
' 
ity music, why haven't you
f contacted the forefather of rock, Ronnie James Dio? Dio is an inspiration to students all over campus. And do I 
' f even have to mention Gwar? 
I Any band that uses animal 
t  bones to construct their instrwnents belongs in the Joyce Center.  
I.  Lastly, ifwe want to bring top '90s bands into the area, how about Korn? One Keenan Hall resi­dent, Adam Martzke, explained to me that he was quite outraged that Korn has not been contacted.  
He said, "I am quite outraged that Korn has not  
been contacted." If we wish to counteract the odi­ 
ous stench ofelitism on campus, what better  
bands to bolster the movement?  
Iwon't make SUB out to be bad guys ­they do  
work incredibly hard to bring entertainment to  
campus. But many us don't want to hear Ben  
Folds Five telling us that "She's a Brick" unless  
she's popping them upside the head. What we  
need is motivation.  
To paraphrase from a famous book, "Man can­ 
not live by hard rock bands alone, but requireth  
senseless violence." Once we have set the mood  
around here a little more to our liking, we must  
have something that will validate and honor vio­ 
lence, machismo and sexism. This means more  
wrestling on campus. I doubt the WWF will be as  
compliant given the past experiences with "non­ 
student" types. But that makes it perfect for WCW.  
Also, a wrestling tournament among students  
could entertain and bring in money for charity at  
the same time. This is the type ofwrestling men­ 
tioned above, not the Notre Dame sport killed by  
Title IX. There are plenty of people around here  
who could use a good headbutt.  
Where does this leave non-wrestling fans that  
r I I I I ! I I '  deserve more quality entertainment? I propose altering a few existing activities we already enjoy. For example, we could have Acoustic Cafe without R.E.M. or Dave Matthews Covers Night every Thursday. I realize I am the lone individual who can't stand Dave Matthews, but I'm sure I could generate interest in an unplugged version of Judas Priest's "Turbo Lover."  
I  There are forms of entertainment just waiting to be utilized, and it's our job to bring them to fruition. These are just several of many I've come  
I  up with. I'm sure you could do the same. Not all of them will generate positive responses; as much as  
I'd love to pipe the Rush Limbaugh radio program  
into certain rooms in O'Shag, it will never happen.  
And for all I know, Dio is busy touring Uzbekistan  
and SUB may have already tried some ofmy sug­ 
gestions. But while I give SUB all due credit, I  
think we should each give them suggestions and  
make Not.re Dame more entertaining.  
The views expressed in the Inside Column  
are those of the author and not necessarily  
those ofThe Observer.  
TODAY'S STAFF  
News Scene  
Maureen Smithe Emmett Malloy  
Laura Rompf Jenn Zatorski  
Courtney Boyle Graphics  
Sports Mandi Powell  
Brian Kessler Pro<luction  
Viewpoint Kathleen O'Brien  
Lila Haughey Lab Tech  
Monica Garza  

The Obsen,er (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through frid•y n.~pt: during cum and vacalion periods. The Observer is ·a member ofth~ As,ocia1ed l're'5. All reproducrion rights are reserved. 


Dustin Ferrell 
Assistant Viewpoint Editor 

The Observer . INSIDE Tuesday, Nove~ber 23, 1999 

QUOTES OF THE WEEK 
"! think it's ironic that Tm sure the result is twice in the past week not gratifying to we've had two fires everyone at Notre and the alarm hasn't Dame. and it's surely gone off." not gratifying to Father Malloy." 
Mary-Claire Jarvis Lyons sophomore Gerard Bradley on closet fire Law professor 
on & Corde £cclesiae vote 
Compiled from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 


Boston U. starts new program to curb drinking 
BOSTON 
When Kharron Reid read the mail on his 21st birthday, he didn't expect to get a birthday card from the Boston University Wellness Center. 
"At first, I was happy they remem­bered my birthday," said Reid, a School of Management junior. "I didn't know why they would send me a card." 
According to Heid, the card urged him not to participate in the widely accepted ritual of alcohol consump­tion as an initiation into the world of legal drinking. 
The card implores students to "Listen to [their} bodies," and not to "succumb to peer pressure." It also points to statistics such as "it takes two to three hours to metabolize one beer," in order to inform students of the hazards of drinking heavily. 
Anti-gay church protests at Brown 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. 
Brown University students crowded the corner of Prospect and Waterman streets Sunday to observe an anti-gay protest by the Westboro Baptist Church (WBC) of Topeka, Kan. The WBC, publicized for picketing Matthew Shepard's funeral, is spending several days in Providence protesting various institutions that are accepting of homosexuals, including other churches and the Boy Scouts. 'This place is so infested with fags, you couldn't swing a dead cat without hitting one, "pro­tester Timothy Phelps said of Brown. About a dozen other church members joined Phelps, the son of WBC founder and church leader Fred Phelps. About 50 Brown students, including many LGBTA members, showed up at the intersection to watch the protest, but did not intend to rally. Members of the Rhode Island Alliance for Lesbian and Gay Civil Rights were also pre­sent. Counter-protesting, they said, would be pointless. "We don't need to have to defend our stance. They have to justify theirs," said Rodney Davis, former presi­dent of the Rhode Island Alliance for Lesbian and Gay Civil Rights. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
"Come on, I was turning 21. I drank a lot. " 
Kharron Reid Boston University junior 
When asked if he heeded the card's warning and drank in moder­ation on his birthday, Reid said, "Come on, r was turning 21. I drank a lot." 
But according to some students, the Center's efforts were not entirely in vain. "It's a good message they're sending," said junior Debleena Roy. "Although I don't know if it would stop most people from drinking." 
According to Wellness Center Director Carolyn Norris, the birthday 
Sweatshop worker speaks at Carnegie 
PITTSBURGH 
Last Tuesday, Carmencita (Chie) Abad spoke to a large crowd in Carnegie Mellon University's Wright McKenna room about her experiences as a worker in a GAP sweat­shop. For six years, Abad worked on the island of Saipan, which is part of the Northern Mariana islands, a United States Commonwealth. The factory where she worked was part of the Sako Corporation, which is responsible for . creating clothing for the GAP, as well as other major retailers such as Old Navy and Banana Republic. Partially in response to Abad's call to action against GAP sweat­shops, protests were held by students on Walnut Street last Monday and Saturday. Abad spoke about the condi­tions in the factory, as well as how the workers, who were mainly women, were coerced into sweatshop labor. Recruiters were in charge of getting mostly Asian women to sign up for working in the factory, and they accom­plished this by telling the women that they would be working in an American territory. In exchange for the opportunity to earn money, the women sometimes had to give the recruiters up to seven thousand dollars for a work permit before they were permitted to go. 

NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon,Tuesday, Nov. 23. 
Lines separate high temperature zones tar the day. 

01999 AccuWeather, Inc. Pre,,ure: . [2J® © High L~w Shower• Aaln Vt• Anoe4iletd Press  [}}] T-•torms  ..Fll,1rrlea  ~ Snow  COLO tfil;l ,..  WARM STATIONARY @?~~. ~ sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy  
Atlanta 8allimore Boston Chicago Houston  68 70 66 64 78  54 48 50 40 52  Las Vegas Memphis Milwaukee New York Philadelphia  55 71 57 64 68  38 51 45 56 54  Portland Sacramento St. Louis Tampa Wash DC  48 56 67 83 70  42 36 46 65 54  

"No food should go to waste when people are hungry." 
Rene Mulligan coordinator of Students for Clean Plates 
card is just one of a variety of inven­tive ways the BU Wellness Center seeks to combat student binge drink­ing. 
This March, the Center will kick off its first-annual Weiiness Spring Break. The Wellness Spring Brnak is a substance-free alternative for stu­dents who wish to go away on vaca­tion and steer clear of drinking that is associated with spring break. 
According to Norris, the week-long event, which is open to all students, will be held in the Dominican Republic. "I think that shows that BU's interested," said College of Arts and Sciences junior Jamila Cupid. 
"They're putting the time and effort in." The Wellness Center also provides alternatives for students who want to avoid the fraternity scene, which many believe goes hand in hand with drinking. 
"Centers and institutes are the way to significantly increase research funding." 
Frank Castellino dean, College of Science 

Tuesday, November 23, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



SMC students protest SOA at rally 
By COURTNEY BOYLE 
News Writer 

Saint Mary's Pearernak1:rs returned from Fort Benning (;porgi._l on Monday after par­ticipati 11g in the rally fnr the cl(lsing of the School of 
America's (SOA). 

Siudnnls ai thn SOA rally had a clrnncl1 to b11 a voice for Lhos11 who can not stand up f'o r tlrn ms e Iv n s th rough a wenkend full of' prayer and r1illoction limo. 
"Tlw prntPst was f'ueled by Uw outrage at using tax dol­lars to fund the training of' sol­din rs l'rom like El Salvador, (iuatemala, and llaiti. who have go11(1 on to torture and cXI\GUtc tlwir own citizens," said Jan Pilarski. "Being part of' the protest was a way of lining faithful to our call as Christians tn be people of peace and to stand with those who are suffering." 
Tlw WIH~k;;nd started with civil disobedinncn training hfil<l throughout the day on Saturday. i\nyonn who had any thoughts about crossing tl111 line was encouraged to attend apd pilrticipate in this training. 
Sunday was the actual protest which began with songs and prayers from a variety of' traditions. The common theme. however, was peace and people who were not afraid to be prophetic and spnak out against violence. 
i\t about 11 :30 a.m. on Sunday those who intended to cross tlrn line on to the mili­tary base started their march. 
Participants knew attending said. "We held icons and the protest could have caused crosses with the names and some legal consequences, ages of people who had been especially if one were to stop killed at the hands of soldiers foot on the soil of the military trained at the SOA." base, but for many protestors "It was incredible to sec it was moral issue and the such a large mass of people in l(~gal consequences did not front and behind of you pray­matter. ing and reflecting in that way 
"i\ttending the SOA protest fur those who had died. As I meant living nut my convic­walknd T remembered people tions instead of just speaking from El Salvador and Haiti about them," said Nicole who have been part of my life Ilurstell. "T over the decided that vears who justice for the "Being a part ofthe suffered people v.ho greatly
protest was a way of 
were victims because of
being faithful to our call
of the SOI\ repression and the clos­as Christians to be people and vio­ing of the lence in
ofpeace and to stand
school are their coun­
with those who are
more impor­tries. I tant to me suffering." called to than the legal mind their consequences faces and
Jan Pilarski
I facPd." stories to "I had Peacemakers member make the 
decided the night before the protest that I would defi­nitely cross the line." Hurstell continued. "Although the penalties included a possible 5000 dollar fine and up to six months in prison, the number of protcstors crossing made these consequences virtually unrealistic." 
As for Pilarski it was more of' a holy experience and a personal experience to step across the line and put foot on the Fort Benning \1ilitary Base. 
"Our group walked arm in arm, slowly and silently, for abnut an hour to reach the entrance to Fort Benning," she 
experience 

of crossing the line a tangible one for me," said Pilarski. 
Since more than 5,000 peo­ple crossed the line, no formal charges were filed. As the pro­testers moved further onto the base, however. they were met by police from Columbus, Georgia who then placed them on buses and dropped them off at a park several miles away. 
"I realized what a wonderful thing it is to come together with other people who feel the same way as me and have a common cause. This needs to happen mnre in our society," said Warner. 


Living wage integral to sweatshop debate 
By KATE STEER 
Assistant News Editor 
The living wage is an issue on the forefront of Catholic social concern and action. At Notre Dame, the controversy surround­
ing this issue is especially relevant in light of the r e c e n t work that has been d o n e 

regarding Hinze ending t.he utilization of sweatshop labor to manufacture Notre Dame products. 
Monday night concluded a series of lectures on sweat­shop labor with the gathering of current leaders in the field. 
Christine Hinze, professor of Christian ethics at Marquette Universitv. and Huth Hosenbauin from the Center for Hef1ection, Education and Action (CREA) spoke on the role of Catholic tradition and faith in causing change on the issue and the development of attainable solutions to the problem. 
"Modern Catholic social tra­dition has focused very insis­tently on developing a living wage -specifically a family living wage," said Hinze. She said that the issue first became relevant to the Church in 1891 when Leo XIII saw the struggling and suffer­ing of the people. 
"From the Catholic perspec­tive, what was due to the workers was what he called a family living wage," said Hinze. She said that the term family living wage indicates an understanding of the good of the family, _the duty and rights of the worker, and how the home and economic spheres are to relate to one another. 
Hinze cited John Ryan in a more specific definition of the living wage. 
"(Ryan] speaks of the living wage as that amount which provides a decent livelihood for those who depend upon it," she said. 
The three components that are necessary for fulfillment of this definition are sufficiency for the present, security against the future, and status and respectability in the workplace. These three parts are vital for workers to gain from thPir work and wage. Hinze also said that while some workers may be able to survive on their income, sur­vival is not the only issue. 
"It is hard to write down a definition of dignity, but it is easy to sen when there is a clear failure to allow human dignity to be attained." 
Hinze recognized that there are many obstacles to attain­ing justice in terms of develop­ing a living wago. 
"A whole host of people exist behind what I wear and what I cat are invisible and of little consequence according to practical purposes," she said. "There are a lot. of efforts to keep folks from con­necting with each other to form unions." 
These things stand in the way. but there arc morn local, personal issues that must be overcome in order for eco­nomic justice to bA established Consumer in affluent coun­tries generally avoid the issue. 
"In our complex global economy, we manage by turn­ing our minds and hearts away," Hinze said. She said that there is an opacity trained into us by our society. "Those workers are power­less; we are apathetic. This is just the reality of the society we live in." 
The third part of Hinze's ideology involves the sacra­mentality of vision that is nec­essary for change. Solidarity, which she poses as an oppo­site to indifference, the virtue or habit of seeing our interde­pendence with others and act­ing with love in response to that. Taking a transformative 
stance is the action required by Catholic tradition. 
"No one is inconsequential if you see with sacramental eyes," Hinze said. 
Rosenbaum is a part of a project that studies wages to develop a Purchasing Power Index (PP!) by which countries and regions can work to bet­ter wages for workers. The PPI is a number value in terms of minutes of work at the minimum wage level required to purchase necessi­ties such as shelter and food. 
"A 40-hour work week results in 2,400 minutes of earned purchasing power in a given week," said Rosenbaum. 
Exploring Attitudes About Appearance and Eating Habits 
University Counseling Center 
631-7336 Roooi 300 Tuesdays, 4:00-5:00 p.m. 
Drop-In/Discussion Series 
Attend One Or All Of The Following Sessions (No Sign-Up Needed) 

Session I: 
Private Body Talk: Enhancing Body Image November 16 

Session II: 
"I don't have an eating disorder ...yet!'~ Feeling Trapped When You Compare Yourself To Others November 23 
<t:, 
'-.)
·­
C­
E 
0 --,­
-+­
s: 

C'"') 
z 
We're \ooKing for new idea£> to ma\::e LNO 
t4 t, BE,~T t,Vt,\Z-! 
Wf:'~t. k,.:: ~·, \(l
1;,;'~~7~}:t . 


i.~t~¢rin;,,. ittee NO\""ff9RM).NG! 
Session Ill: 

?\caf>e-contact 
Living In A World Where Being A "Plus Size" Is A Minus: 
kara at I-S2-?I or ~uf>ie-at t-'35'31 

Strategies For Self-Acceptance 
-Z?~~
November 30 

page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, November 23, 1999 
CLC 

continued from page 1 
complemented the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs for being resourceful. 
"l think OMSA has been really successful," said Poorman. 
Comparing Notre Dame, which is 84 percent wh.ite, with Stanford University, an institution with 40 percent of the population being minority students, Poorman remarked that although Stanford has morn available financial aid, when students get the oppor­tunity to visit Notre Dame's campus, they are much more likely to gain interest in the school. 
Poorman added that the University still faces "pres­sures" that affect the amount of diversity among students. 
"We're trying to keep the institution around 85 percent Catholic." said Poorman. 
He attributed part of the rise in the Hispanic popula­tion to the Catholic traditions of the University. However, the number of African­American students has dropped. 
"We've got a long way to go as far as the numbers," said Poorman. "This is baldly a 
matter  of  recruiting  and  
retention."  
Poorman  suggested  that  

current minority students on campus need to feel comfort­able an<l. that a level of com­fort would come with more education on diversity among all students. 
"We've got to have an impact with majority students in regards to diversity educa­tion." 
This year freshmen partic­ipated in diversity programs as part of freshmen orienta­tion as a step toward promot­ing awareness. 
"That kind of perception that says !multicultural activi­ties such as] Latin Expressions and Black Coffchouse are only for black or Latino students is wrong and we know it," said Poorman. 
After thorough explanation about the different responsi­bilities of the Office of Multicultural Affairs, Poorman expressed enthusi­asm for the changes in the Career Placement Center. Along with having longer hours. the Center has a Web-
based internship placement between male and females at service. the University. 
Poorman also spoke about "Sexuality as a topic has the increasing interest in fallen by the wayside,"said changing social space on the Poorman. He encouraged the campus. Campus Life H e Council to con­
explained that there are sever­ "We've got to have an impact with majority  tinue to make "constructive proposals"and  
al  differ­ students in re_qards to  "think creative­ 
e n t approach­ diversity education. "  ly."  
es being discussed,  Father Mark Poorman  In other CLC  
including building a completely  vice president, Office of Student Affairs  news: The cu; addressed addi­ 
new  stu­ tional questions  
dent cen­ to  Poorman,  

most specifically related lo social spaces within the resi­
ter or changing the various 
eating disorders, duLac revi­dence halls. Even with much 
sions and the University's view toward 0UTreachND. Indiscussion of redesigning social space at the Univc~rsity, 
regards to eating disorders, Poorman said that there were 
Poorman acknowledged that, "other budget priorities." 
last year, 12 percent of tho The last major issue that 
Counseling Center's 800 Poorman brought up was the 
clients thought they harl a eat­need to improve gender rela­ing disorder. The University tions at the University. He 
has hired a nutritionist in the advised the Campus Life counseling center and estab­Council to "go beyond the lished a Web page. They have 
perennial issues." such as 
looked into programs at the eliminating parietals or get­
Universities of Maryland and ting co-ed dorms. Instead, he 
Akron, which both have good proposed that students begin 
reputations. to take a look at the relations 
Poorman also responded to the CLC's questions about last year's resolution to include the Academic Guide in duLac. Poorman responded that tho University wanted to avoid duplicating information, but that next year the Academic Guide will be in duLac. 
Some final remarks were made as to the University's stand on gay, lesbian and bisexual support groups such as 0UTreach NO. Poorman referred to 1986, 1992 and 1995 reports on the issue and said that the University never said that these groups advo­cate a homosexual lifestyle, but that the University does not want to have student organization because it offers other alternative ways for gay, lesbian, and bisexual stu­dents to gather. These include rntr<iats, a support group and counseling programs. In addi­tion, Poorman stressed the University's reinforcement of no tolerance for harassment. 
Chairman Micah Murphy briefly commented on the con­
troversy  started  by  the  
0UTreach  ND  ad  in  The  
Observer.  

"There was an ad in there that raised a, f'ew eyebrows that nobody really expected to see," said Murphy. 


SHARE THE WARMTH AND SPIRIT OF NOTRE DAME! 'JJd84. 4,,ciy 
THERE IS S~LTIME ... two weeks still remain to participate in Project Warmth! Don't 

:/1.t-{I ~J. .YOlJ.r 
mISs_ ou~! Although 1t IS hard to believe, the South Bend chill will be arriving soon! Calls have been ,.~,~ ~ Co,!l co~g m fr~m agencies in South ~end/Michiana_with immediate need for jackets and coats to '-:" '-I.(. alleviate their shortage. ~e need 1s pres~nt even m our own ND community. With your support, a "lJ ~ • • record number of persons m our commuruty and beyond will receive an invaluable gift this winter: a ~ ~# J.. warm coat!!! ~~#I,~,/ 
• 

DID YOU KNOW..... 
Please visit any one of our site locations, all eager to accept your coat donation until December 3: 
GEAR for Sports, is sponsoring acompetition among the campus resi­
dence halls, giving a cash award of$1,000 to the hall which collects the 
Center for Social Concerns • Hammes Bookstore • Lafortune
most coats per capita and an award of $500 to the runner-up hall. There 
Information Desk • RecSports • Alumnl Community Service 
Office • Campus Mlnistry/Hesburgh Library •All Residence Halls
are no restrictions on how this money may be used by the winning halls. 
• College of Busill8Ss Administration • St. Michael's Laundry Distribution Center • Bond Hall • Fitzpatrick Engineering • Flanner Hall • Galvin Life Science Center • Grace Hall • Law School "Main Building • O'Shaughnessy • North/Sou\h Dining Hall • ND Federal Credit Union (all branch locations), Student Government Office In LaFortune • JACC • Decio Commons 
SUPPORT YOUR HALL WHILE SERVING THE LOCAL COMMUNITY! 
Sponsored by: 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME llAMMEs BOOKSTORE STUDENT GOVERNMENT 









orld 
ati 
n 
Tuesday, November 23, 1999 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Northern Ireland issues ultimatum to IRA 
LONDON 
Soeking LO builcl Protflslant support for the lawst compromise plan, Hrilain's minister for Northern Irnland pledged Monday to suspend a 1ww l'roli\Stant-Catholic administration for lhe provinc1• if the Irish Hepublican Army begins disarming. Northern Ireland secretary l'etnr Mand,dson appealed to tho Ulster Unionists, Lhc major Protestant party, to back ll!adcr David Trimble in a crucial vote Saturday. The vote will determine whether plans mediated by American diplomat George Mitchell -to establish lhe new provincial govnrnment trnxt week, and for I.he IH/\ to grndually disarm in rosponse -can proccnd. "It is l'or thn Ulster Unionist Party a decision of historic importancH. A. great responsibility now rests on them," Mandelson told lawmak­1irs in British l'arliamenl, includinf.{ Trimble. 
UMass students speak out against violence 
AMIIEHST, Mass. 
About :rno people chanted, marched and linkml hands around the campus pond at the UniversiLy of Massachusetts (m Mnnday tn voicn concrrn about a series of assaults in that arna. ''I'm probably as scared as I possi­bly rnuld bn," said stud1\nt Elisabeth Lessard, 
21. "Part of me is upset at what's been going m1, htll tlm other part of me is happy that the rnaction from studHnts is so great. I would 1wv1\r guoss a big campus like this would bond lik,i this.» The students chanted anti-vio­lnn ce slogans and carried signs saying "l'rnt1\ct Our Women" and "Too Little, Too I.ate" -a refornnce lo the views of some stu­dnnts that administrators have not reacted strongly enough. 
Motorist commits suicide after car accident 
OJAI. Calif. 
Standing nnar the bodies of' two friends killed wlum he lost cuntrol of a pickup truck and sent it ovnr a cliff. a man held a gun to his head. warned a forest ranger away and committed suicide. (;arv Sears, 37, shot himself in Urn )mad 
IO f(wt aw·ay from the wreckage, Ventura County Sheriff's Sgt. Tim Lorenzen said. Alcohol was believed to be a factor in the Saturday night crash, he said. Sears lost con­trol of a friend's pickup, sending it off a 50 foot cliff along Highway 33. The impact killed Debra Lynch, 37, and .Judy Villegas, 26, who were rid­ing in the back s1mt of the extended cab pickup. They weren't wearing seat belts. The husband of onu of thu women was critically hurt. After thn crash, Sears got out of tho truck, suffering two broken ribs. 
1,@,Pitllilt@MifiJ.

Dow AMEx: 
828.12 

]ONES +z.oo 
Nasd1111:

+85.63 
LJ 
3392.56 ,2J.3l 
NYSE 
644.64 -1.48 S&P 500: Composite 1420.94 

Volume:11,089.52 -l.06 18,832,823,070 
VOLUME LEADERS 

ES:WIIKJ TtCU! 'I £HIN91 I CMIMPI rlISI lllllCltOIOrT coa, ..... ....) +J.llOO U.81 
A'l't.1" coa, . ..I.fit +5.U75 54.00
•

D&LL CONIV'nJI DSLL +1.05 . O. '379 u.,s COMtAQ COlltt1'Pllt ~,o -1.01 +o.:uoo 4!.it? 
A'!I KOIIII eo~, ...... +U.01 .s.u,, 5'1.00 INTII.. C:01\1 Ill'I"~ 1-0. 7f t0.U500 1(1 .so POIQlt COU •U0.00 . 1. 7:!00 ].00 
.,_UC.\ OIIL.tft '°"" ....., JU.SO
AOL . J.n!!lO 

JCOII coa, COIY -0.72 .. o.,u, ,1.00 
Jlf'I'IRll IIIC .... .. ,.,,. •1. :t'7DO 3!5.12 
ISRAEL 

AFP Photo 

An Israeli policeman orders pilgrims to stop praying and to leave the Church of the Holy Sepulcher In the Old City of Jerusalem. Church authorities In the Holy Land ordered a two-day shutdown to protest the building of a mosque near Nazareth's Church of the Annunciation, one of Christendom's holiest sites. 

Israeli church closes in protest 
Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat block construction of the mosque.
Associated Press 
backing the Christians in Nazareth "Nazareth should be a city for 
NAZARETH in hopes they will support him when everyone," said Jozeph Wietsiers, 
The gates of churches across the he negotiates the future of 54, a Homan Catholic who had Holy Land swung shut in protest Jerusalem with the Israelis. walked more than 2.400 miles since Monday as church leaders made a Saudi Arabia, the guardian of May on a pilgrimage from his home­final attempt to block the building of Islam's holiest shrines, supported town in Oss, Holland only to find the a mosque in the heart of Nazareth, Arafat's efforts, offering to pay for a Basilica closed. the town of Jesus' boyhood. new mosque at an alternate spot in But the highest Roman Catholic 
The two-day, Vatican-backed clo­Nazareth, away from the Basilica of authority in the Holy Land, Latin sure highlights the increasingly the Annunciation, to avoid friction. Patriarch Michel Sabbah, said the volatile relations between Christians The church closures, just weeks Christians, a tiny minority of about and Muslims, as well as Israel's before the last Christmas of the mil­100,000, had to take a stand. ambiguous -some claim politically lennium, left many pilgrims disap­"We closed the churches so the tainted -role as mediator. pointed. Some endorsed the protest, world can hear, and the world did," 
The dispute has also spilled over while others said Christians should Sabbah told a news conference in into Mideast peace talks, with set examples of tolerance and not Jerusalem. 
McCain pushes for Web tutoring 
to succeed, McCain said. If lion retirees in the United Tucson. He lieldcd quustions Aswciated Press tutors aren't available in States from which to draw. on Social Security. the envi­
some neighborhoods, the Arizona superintendent of ronment, foreign policy, ille­
SIERRA VISTA, Ariz. Internet may be able to link public schools Lisa Graham gal immigration and morn. 
Republican presidential them with students, he said. Keegan, a McCain support­McCain also reit11rat11d his contender John McCain said "These children deserve er, said the proposal would intention to release his med­Monday that he wants to personal attention to help combine technology and vol­ical records, including more create a pool of military vet­them meet their full acade­unteerism to help students than 350 pages of report.<; on erans, retirees and others mic potential," McCain said. in need. the injuries he suffered as a who would tutor students in "With the Internet, we can "I would welcome the prisoner of war in Vietnam. math, science and English. make that happen." opportunity to build a clear­McCain said he had 
"You really need to have a McCain called on school inghouse of the best, bright­planned to releasn the lot more people helping kids districts and state education est and most enthusiastic records earlier, but has had get their education," officials to start building lists retirees from all walks of life di!Ilculty finding all of them McCain, a U.S. senator, said of tutors, but also said the to help our struggling stu­because of his t1xtensivc while campaigning in his federal government should dents," she said. medical history. Tho records home state. recruit people who are leav­During the trip, McCain will not include psychiatric 
Tutors can help reinforce ing the military or receiving met with about 700 support­counseling reports because the message that education veteran's benefits to partic­ers at Buena High School in McCain said he did not is important and give stu­ipate. He said there are 26 Sierra Vista and a smaller receive any after his dents the support they need million veterans and 40 mil-group during a luncheon in release, 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, November 23, 1999 
Dalloways 
continued from page 1 
incur by the move, Dennis said. 
The only remaining option. reconstructing the Clubhouse, became a mission to preserve the original character of the Clubhouse, Duba said. 
"We agreed that if we were going to build a new one, we wanted to include manv of the physical characteristics that make Dalloways what it is," Duba said. ··some of those char­acteristics could be taking the original doors and windows 
from the build­

"Since the building was a 
desired gift from the Class of kitchen facility 
ing. We want 
this built as 

close to the old 1922, there could be a could allow 
one as possi­for more
time capsule 
diverse stu­incorporated in that dent func­
building somewhere. " tions, accord­
ble." 

Weighing the 

ing to Student benefits Activities While the Board chair­
Julie Duba loss of the Historical Preservation Society woman Janet 
request of a plan for the land use to be a "principal driver" in the formation of the recently imple­mented Campus Master Plan. 
"In the end. they wanted a comprehensive solution -to talk about everything, the athletic fields and thA Clubhouse," Dennis said. 
Representatives from the Sisters of the Holv Cross could not be reached for comment at press time. 
The relocation of the Clubhouse facility, tentatively planned to be located near Lake Marion, will provide options for expansion not available with the current facili­ty. Plans to include the 
original Dalloway's is inevitable, one of the possible benefits is the potential for expansion, Duba said. 
Plans drafted last spring to expand the Clubhouse's facilities to include a small kitchen for food service in the building were set to begin construction last summer. However, the Sisters of the Holy Cross, who own proper­ty rights to all the land surround­ing the Clubhouse excluding the building and the footprint of the building itself, expressed con­cerns about the land being unsta­ble. 
"Problems along the edge of the St. Joseph River on the cam­pus of Saint Mary's College have necessitated a decision to raze the Clubhouse, a landmark build­ing on campus," stated a press release released by the College in spring of 1999. 
Those concerns have since been declared irrelevant. 
"When the issue came up about expanding Dalloways, there was discussion about a document that said the bank was unstable," said Dennis. "It was really just one of those kinds of rumor issues. That document was never produced." 
However, there was discussion that many sisters believed the Clubhouse should be moved to a more central space on campus. 
"What it came down to is that they just didn't want that func­tion to be expanded," Dennis said. "With no time pressure, they decided that they wanted that chunk of ground and that [the Clubhouse] should move back to campus." 
The Clubhouse land is located closer to the convent and central property owned by the Sisters of the Holy Cross, who own the total property in the outer loop of campus, including the athletic fields and cornfields that extend to the edge of U.S. 31. 
"There was some discussion that the sisters didn't like the noise and the tratlic of the build­ing," Duba said. 
The Dalloways decision was a sort of "trade-off' to be able to have access to other campus land, according to Duba and Dennis. 
"At the beginning of the Master Plan. the campus wanted to own the ground that the athletic fields are on," Dennis said. While the land is currently leased from the Sisters of the Holy Cross, "they are an integral part of the cam­pus, and the sisters have no use for them." 
However, discussions of land transfers would not be enter­tained until a Master Plan was formed, providing the sisters' Horvath. 

"That would 
be a great asset to have," Horvath said. "Right now, we only have the capacity to have Dalloways open three nights a week. It would be a great advantage to have addi­tional food and drinks at student activity functions." 

Starting over 
Ground will break for the new Clubhouse in March 2000, mak­ing it one of the first elements to be physically constructed in the Campus Master Plan. With an anonymous donation of $250,000 given to the College last week in support of the project, $70,000 in existing bond monies and $30,000 raised by the Parents Council, financial support is intact and will not be an issue. 
The only challenge left is acceptance by a student body that may be hesitant to welcome the structure with open arms. 
'Tm sure that will be an issue ... it's inescapable," Duba said. "We feel strongly enough about keeping the charm and feel that we're going to do as much as we can to preserve the original Dalloways." 
Part of those plans include excavating the original corner­stone from the building and using it as the cornerstone in the new one as well. 
And there are surprises yet to be uncovered. 
"Since the building was a gift from the Class of 1922, there could be a time capsule incorpo­rated in that building some­where," Duba said. "We may open that time capsule, add to it or use it as a display somewhere in the new Dalloways." 
The original Clubhouse will not be demolished until later in the semester, allowing current stu­dent organizations and programs -such as SAB comedians. guest speakers and the Dalloways cof­feehouse to continue uninter­rupted. 
Student functions currently take place in the building once or twice a month, said Horvath. 
"We're sad to see the building taken down," Horvath said, "but we'rr happy to see that the com­mittee has recoginzed the need for this building on campus." 
Over time. the Historic Preservation Committee hopes to see the new building take on a charm ofits own. 
'Tm not worried," Duba said. "We've got the best of both worlds. When you take the endearing characteristics of this building and couple them with the innovative ones that we're adding, we'll have something really great on campus." 


Students resist the urge to shop 
By NELLIE WILLIAMS 
New, Writer 
People of all ages are rush­ing around, cutting in lines, trying to go everywhere and get everything they want. Tired children are crying, parents are stressed, and teenagers are looking for the one item that will make them perfect. 
No, its not the end of the world, it's the day after Thanksgiving -the biggest shopping day all year. 
"It's crazy," says freshman Mary Campe. "Pcoplo are rude and moving too fast. It's a hectic day. It can get annoying." 
While the rest of the world is scrambling for purchases, two Saint Mary's students are trying to reach out of the materialistic society and into simplicity. 
Sophomore Alissa Blair and senior Christie VanKeuren are involved with Peacemakers, a campus group that tries to convey the message that consumerism is getting out of hand. They have started a committee for the. international Buy Nothing Day -the day after Thanksgiving, Nov. 26. 
Although "Buy Nothing Day" is just for one day, Peacemakers is hoping that the awareness will last for the 364 other days. 
Awareness is the key to Buy Nothing Day. "We're hoping that a few more peo­ple will be aware," said Susan Alexander, sociology professor and a Peacemakers faculty leader. "Buying affects the whole globe. We need to be conscious that 

there are connections Peacemakers has tried between us and the rest of making people more aware the world." of the day by posting posters 
"The people in the United made out of recycled paper States are the biggest con­around campus and showing sumers. We affect other the video "Affluenza." The countries with our consum­video points out that people ing without even knowing it. buy things that do not last. There is a whole cycle with a Although they are filling their lot of issues involved." lives with materials, they are VanKeuren said. "[Buv left feeling empty inside. Nothing Day] is just an "Go back a century," said awareness -a wav to be Alexander, "Christmas used active in a silent protest and to not be about how many not spending on the biggest gifts you give people but shopping day of the year. We about doing something for 
want  to  the benefit of  
get  peo­ the communi­ 
ple think­ing 'Do we really need it?"'  "The people in the United States are the biggest consumers. We affect  ty. We've turned it around." Society cre­ 
"When  other countries without  ates  a  
we keep buying  even knowing it."  "happy-go­spc n ding"  
and  we  world.  The  
k  e  e  p  Christie VanKeuren  world makes  

spending, 

senior 
we want more and more," s a i d Blair. 

People are no longer satis­fied with just necessities. They want the latest fashion, the latest toys and the latest technology, no matter what it costs or how much pollution is caused, said Blair. 
Buy Nothing Day is cele­brated throughout the coun­try in different ways. Some people cut up credit cards outside of malls, recycle and give out handouts. 
"Some groups offer coffee and fruit [outside of shopping centers] to get people's mind off shopping and on the spirit of giving," Blair said. "It's a challenge here because no one's on campus that day." 
people feel 
discontent 
with what 
they have and 
they arc always rushing around trying to get a little more, said Alexander. 
Both VanKeuren and Blaire realize that spending a whole day buying nothing is hard. 
"You need to think ahead of time," says Blaire, who last year accidentally bought a tank of gas on Buy Nothing Day. "This really opened my eyes to becoming more aware. I want to contribute to help others become more aware." 
Buy Nothing Day is also challenging people to give away. A box has been placed in LeMans Heingboux Lounge for donations to Salvation Army. 

---,' 

Tuesday, November 23, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 


Gordon: JFK's death full of public misconceptions 
By KATIE MILLER  It was unusual for JFK and Lyndon Johnson lo be in a·  examined, what actually hap­pens on tape disputes conclu­ identify themselves." Gordon also noted that Lee  descriptions were removed from Warren Commission  
NL"wS Writer  motorcade together as they  sions  made  by  the  Warren  Harvey Oswald was seen on the  statements. She described the  
were on the day of the assassi­ Commission.  second floor of the Texas Book  back of his fJFK) head as 'noth­ 
Thn Warrnn Commission mis­ nation, said Gordon.  "LBJ was  "The Zaprutler film  was not  Depository 90 seconds after he  ing there,"' said Gordon.  
informed the world about the  from Texas: this was important  viewed by the Ameriran public  supposedly shot Kennedy from  The  Warren  Commission  
truth surrounding JFK's assas­sination, according lo JFK's death Jack Gordon. 3f> ynars ago Details on Novnmhcr surrounding the 22, 1%:-i, President'sPresidPnt .John F. assassination Kcnncdv wits have been vagueshot • and  in pulling the campaign togeth­er. On the day or his assassina­tion, JFK's car was not oquipped with running boards or a bubble top. JPK did not want the secret service hover­ing ovflr him. Cordon showed his audience tlrn Zapruder film, stressing the importance of watching JFK's  until 12 years after the assassi­nation of JFK. The film was first shown on the Geraldo Rivera Goodnight America Show," said (;ordon. In the Za pruder film, after Kennedy is shot, Governor Connally (who was sitting in the front seat of the car Kennedy was shot in} has time to turn around and back before he  the window of the sixth floor. Oswald was not out of breathe and he was drinking a Dr. Pepper that he had obtained from the  "The Zaparuder }Um was not viewed by the American public until 12 years after the assassination ofJFK." Jack Gordon  denied that the back of JFK's head had an exit wound that would suggest · a bullet hit .JFK from the front. T h e emergency room staff at  
killnd while campaigning in Dallas. TX. "It is hard  since the murder. . Nov. 22, 1963  movements, according to Gordon, "11.'s important to realize when you look at this footage,  himself is shot. This disputes the Warren Commission's idea that a bullet entered JFK's back, emerged through his  cafeteria on the second floor of the B o o k  Kennedy assassination expert  Parkland had a I s o described tlrn bullet wounds  
l'or mn tu htdievc that today is the J 6 t h  . Dallas, Texas . wounded in back ot head  you act as a wilness to what happened in downtown Dallas," said Gordon. Gordon emphasized that after  Adam·s apple, went through Connally's wrist, and then through his thigh said Gordon. A slide from the Zaprudcr  Depository Building minutes before JFK's assassination. Gordon emphasized that the Warren Commission covered  at JFK's Adam's apple as a small entry wound according to Gordon. The Warren Commission had  
anniversary of JFK's  the shots were fired at the Prnsident, the crowd focused  lilm reveals a man in a police uniform hiding behind the  up JFK's actual autopsies. "A key to understanding the  stated that the bullet that had entered JFK's back exited  
dnuth," said Cordon. (;onion oporwd his prnsonla­tion in Carroll Auditorium with  their attention on the grassy knoll in front of the President's car rather thau the Book  fence on the grassy knoll. When put into color, the man appears to be firing a weapon in the  Kennedy assassination is understanding the differences in autopsies."  through his Adam's apple. The initial examination of JFK at Parkland Hospital had  
background on tlrn Knnncdy's trip to TPxas. "This Tnxas trip was Vf'ry wnll-plunncd. JFK hud been asked Lo go to sevNal cities in Texas," said Cordon. "Tho tour had bcien a success. Jackie was  Depository Building where Lee 1larvey Oswald was spotted. "The vast majority of people focused their attention on the railroad yard beyond the hill," said Gordon. "After the shoot­ings, the rest of the motorcade  direction of JFK said Gordon. This blown-up picture was not revealed until the late 1980s. "Following the shootings, you will see a stampede of people scaling the hill. Behind the hill they were met with plain­ Statements from nine emer­gency room doctors at Parkland Hospital in Dallas where JFK was immediately taken reported that the President had a large gaping wound on the back of his head.  revealed no connection between JFK's back wound and neck wound according to Gordon. Gordon received his bache­lor's degr1ie at Hamilton College, and his master's and  
a visible part of' this trip. It was h1!r'lirst public appearance since the loss or the Kmrnedys' haby."  continues the route as planned." According to Gordon, when the Zapruder films are closely  clothed men who identified themselves as Secret Service agents," said Gordon. "Yet, Secret Service agents do not  These doctors were the first ones to work on the President said Gordon. "Portions of Mrs. Kennedy's  doctorate at Indiana University­B I oo mington. He is a well­known expert on the assassina­tion.  


Think••differen[ 




Got news? Call 631--5323. 
page 8 

The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, November 23, 1999 

TUN1EJ' Where do all your favorite artists call home? Tunes.com. At Tunes.com you'll find the entire 
• C O m 

..,,,,,,,, ,. music universe at your fingertips. Thousands of MP3s. Concert photos. Videos. The latest music news. Even live concert webcasts. Not to mention fresh content from Rolling Stone and Down Beat. Tons of artists, tons of music all under one virtual roof. It's all here at Tunes.com. Come on in. DOM{REAT/!\Zl ~­


Tuesday, Novemher 23, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
XV 71vrld Y,uth Zhy, 2000 
. 
tn 

ROME, 15-20 AUGUST 2000 
'Dear young people, I invite you to undertake with joy the pilgrimage to 
Rome... 
-Pope John Paul II 
The Holy Father has invited the youth and young adults of the world to come to Rome for World Youth Day XV. This will be an important and awesome event; a week-long celebration of life, faith and hope. Campus Ministry invites you to consider joining as we make this spectacular journey. 
The Holy Father has called; will you join him? 
Campus Ministry and the Congregation of the Holy Cross will be sponsoring a pilgrimage to World Youth Day, 2000 for Notre Dame students from August 13 to 21. The availability is limited to 24 students; therefore those wishing to join us are requested to complete an applicatio'n. More information 
f 
1.. :: .· ·. • ,: I
including financial assistance for those students selected will be available after December 1. 
..~•1' ·:t11 ·:.p ...·j
'pl ~Jl . /"
Please note, World Youth Day will be the weekend of .freshman Orientation and Registration at Notre Dame. Students may need to make arrangements to move into the dorms in mid-August. ~'~1 ~----'~ 


lllii. t1 l,-~ J
-••, 


-~-----­
=====================-=­

Colon cancer afflicts 'Peanuts' creator 
As.<0cia1cd Press 
SAN FRANCISCO "Poanuts" cartoonist Charles 
M. S<'lrnlz is lighting colon can­cer, his secretary conl'irmod today. 
Ducturs al Santa Bosa Mnmorial llospitul found the cm1<·1ir last Wflnk, wlrnn pAr­l'orming Pmergrmcy surgery to clnar a blockiid abd 0111 inal arlery. 
I !is wifo, Jean, indicated that tlrn 76-ycar-old arlist will undNgo drnmotlwra.py, hut no I' u r t h 11 r 
surgery will "flis spirits are good, and draw new
Im ruquired, 
that's what it takes." strips after
said Schulz's 
thosn are
secretary, 
published,
Edna l'onhnnr. 
Edna Poehner 

the syndicate
Schulz 
Schulz's secretary will substi­
rt\nrninml hos­pilal iz!'d today i11 Santa Hosa, about 50 mill's north of San Francisco where hti livns ant.I works. A hospital spoknswoman rt\f'llsed to rclcus11 any information about his condition. 
A call to Schulz's wi!'n was not imnwdiatcly returned. 
So far, only family members hav11 visited, l'odrner said. but tlwy report that Schulz has linen up and walking. "llis spir­its ure good, and that's what it lakns," shn said. 
Woll-wishers 11ooded his stu­dio with flowers, balloons, cards and "a lot or wonclcrf'ul letters," Ponhner said. "lle's touchml a lot of lives.'' 
Schulz's comic strip appears in 2,600 newspapers in 75 countries and is the basis of a franchise that earns $1 billion a year. 
New strips chronicling the friendships and foibles of Charlie Brown, Snoopy, Lucy, Linus and Woodstock will con­tin u o to appear al least through .Ian. l, because Schul.: works more than five weeks ahead of publication, according to Unitt1d Feawrn Syndicate. 
New Sunday strips are com­pl e tcd through Feb. 14. If' 
Schulz is 
unable to 
tute classic 
Peanuts 
strips, start­
ing wilh strips from the past five years. 
Syndicute employees arc signing a 4-foot-tall card deco­r ate d with members of 1.he "Peanuts" gang. "We arc lhink­ing of him and his family, and our prayers arc with them," spokeswoman Diane (sclin said. 
II is wif'e said he appeared hnalthy when he left for work last Tuesday, but he was rushed to the hospital in the early afternoon, complaining of leg pain and numbness. 
lie underwent quadruple coronary bypass surgery in 1981. 

Meningitis vaccinations hit campuses 
Associated Press 
AMHERST, Mass. 

Lawrence und Sharif Muhammad stood frozen with indecision at the doorstep of a University of Massachusetts vaccination clinic. 
Their mom was worried about thorn catching meningococcal meningitb. She hud heard that it r,an kill an otherwise healthv teenager in hours. Two students had already been stricken this fall at the uniwm,ity. 
But they got betler. And with 18,000 undergraduates at UMass-J\mherst, how much of a threat was there really? Besides, at $75 a vaccination, the price looked pretty steep. 
The Muhammad brothers finally tur,rnd around and left. 
Spurred by the latest federal recommendations, colleges are mounting a widening attack on meningitis this fall with health advisories. educational cam­paigns and vaccination clinics. The aim is to curb the spread of meningitis in dormitories. 
Hut the latest studies suggest that only a few meningitis dMths might be avoided each year in dorms -leading some lrnalth authorilies to wonder if they could do better by working against more common college scourges like drunk driving or sexually transmitted diseases. 
"You're talking about millions of' dollars per life saved. There are known to be many interven­tions in public health that do better than that," said Milton Weinstein, a risk expert at the llarvard School of Public Jlealth. On his family doctor's advice, he is letting own 18­year-old son go unvaccinated at college. 
Meningococcal meningitis is an infection of the membranes around the brain and spinal cord that can be spread by kiss­ing or ewm sharing a drinking, glass. The symptoms include fever, neck stiffness and headache. The disease kills in roughly 10 percent or cases and does serious harm, including brain damage, in another 10 percent. 
At least 91 campuses warn of the disease on pre-admission health forms, often recommr.nd­ing that students consider the vaccine, atcording to Dr. Mar.Jeanne Collins, the University of Pennsylvania health director who has sur­veyed campuses nationwide. At least 87 campuses carry out wider educational campaigns and 57 run meningitis var,cina­tion clinics. 
The federal Centers for Diseasr. Control and Prevention recornmendP-d last month that campuses give easy access to the meningitis vaccine, espncial­ly for college freshmen. 
Yet, of 3,000 cases nationwide in a typical year, just 100 to 125 occur at colleges. The death rate is highest among freshmen living in dormitories. With about 520,000 such freshmen this fall, five deaths would be expected. 
Figures on causes of death among college students are hard to find. However, in 1997, there were 10,208 road fatali­ties, 4,186 suicides and 276 AIDS deaths for young people ages 15 to 24, according to the National Center for Health Statistics. 

"You can debate thfl cost­effectiveness of this," said Len Lavenda, a spokesman for meningitis vaccine maker Pasteur Merieux Connaught. "But the greatest tragedy is 
when a  
parent S e e S  Meningitis facts  
their  . Disease is deadly in  
chi Id strick­ nearly 10 percent of  
en  by  cases  
tho dis­ . 57 college campuses  
ease a n  -d  have meningitis  
never  vaccination clinics  
knew there  . Death rate highest  
was an  among on-campus  
action  freshmen  
t  h  a  t  
can  be  

taken to prnvont it." 
The vaccine is deemed 90 por­cent e!Tective against 70 percent of college cases. In the rnmain­ing 30 percont of casos, the vac­cine has no effect. 
"Deaths from binge drinking and deaths from suicide are probably morn common than deaths from meningitis in col­lege students. But -by God! ­if we had a vaccine for those things. we'd give it, wouldn't we't" said Dr. James Turner, chairman of a committee on vaccine-preventable illnnsses for the American Collnge Health Association. 
Campus policy makers also arc aware that meningitis gave rise to more than $90 million in malpractice claims against col­leges between 1985 and 1997, according to the Collnge I lealth Association. 


For more information or to request an application, visit the Campus Ministry Office in Hesburgh Library after December I. · For more on XV World Youth Day, 2000 see the official Vatican webpage at: http://www.vatican.va/ 
'  ,,,l  :  1..  ,  .  
' 
;  







VIEWPOINT 
OTHE page 10 BSERVER Tuesday, November 23, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame. IN 4G556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michelle Krupa 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogero  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  
L:tura Petelle  

NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan VIEWPOINT EDfTOR: Colleen Gaughcn SPORTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler 
SCENE EDITOR, Michael Vanegas SAINT MARYS EDITOR: Norn:n Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: K~vin Dalum 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Bryan Lmz 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Bret Hnelat SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Micnad Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushro 
CONTROLLER, Timothy Lane GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 

CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX............................................................ 631-6927 ADVEKTISING.....................................63 !-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.cdu EDITOR IN CmEF... .. . ...... ......................631-4542 MANAGING EoIToRIA.ssr. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631 ·53 ! 3 NEWS.......................................................... 631-5323 observer .obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.. ...............................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@ncl.edu SAJNT MAJty's ............................................. 631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRAT0RS.................631-8339 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at http://observer.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sporrs, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for
weather for up-to-the 
minute forecasts 

weekly student reviews 
adverti5e for policies 

o~e features for spe­
and rares of prim ads 

cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 

about The Observer 
articles published a~er 

to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the scudents ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary•s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the adminisrration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse advertisemenrs based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily tnose ofThe Obseiver. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofal! opinions through letters is encouraged. Leners to the Editor mllSt be signed and must include contact information. 
Qumiom regarding Observerpolicies 1hould be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMichel!., Krnpa. 

When I think of government-spon­sored human rights violations, the first examples that come to mind are China, with itc; well documented abuses, and Milosevic's reign of terror in Kosovo. 
Thanks to the  
advent of technolo­ 
gy and mass media  Justin Kempf  
we are made aware  
of and confronted  
by these atrocities  Right to Life  
every time we check  
the latest news  

reports. It is interesting however, that despite the ability of the media to cover a vast range of topics with great depth they miss some of the most blatant human rights violations. Those that are quietly condoned and sometimes sup­ported by the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA). 
In 1998 the U.S. Congress withdrew all financial support to the UNFPA as a reaction to its complicit support of China's one-child-per-family policy. Under Beijing's law a woman who has one child must have an IUD inserted. A woman with two children must be ster• ilized and if a woman is known to be pregnant with a second or third child, she must have an abortion. Despite the loss of the $25 million in funds the UNFPA has yet to withdraw itself from China's grotesque population control mechanism. 
In an effort to regain financial sup­port the UNFPA has claimed its lack of funding has resulted in hundreds of thousands of deaths among mothers in developing countries. Without proper funding it claims it has not been able to adequately provide access to contracep­tives or abortion. Its misguided empha­sis on contraceptives as a means to improve mother and child mortality rates is evident in the budget break­down for its activities in Nigeria. From 1993-1997, $840,482 were spent on three community reproductive health service projects for the distribution of contraceptives. Also, $6,151,00 were spent for seven Maternal and Child Health/Family Planning projects, which were also designed to facilitate the 
·availability of birth control. Only $373,000 were allocated for a safe motherhood project to improve the birthing process while $658,000 were spent on the Family Health Soap Opera Television show. Seven other pr-ojects were established to conduct research and information on population control policies under a $3.3 million budget. The UNFPA claims the goal of these programs is to reduce maternal mortal­ity. Dr. Robert Walley. who is the founder of Matercare International and an obstetrician-gynecologist. and has worked in Africa for many years points out the ineffectiveness of the UNFPA's campaign: 
"The promotion by governments, their funding agencies and internation­al health organizations of what is now known as 'reproductive health,' which is simply a euphemism for abortion and contraception. It is estimated that bil­lions of dollars are spent by our govern­ments and private agencies on birth control programs, but only a small frac­tion is spent on emergency obstetric care which would help mothers survive their pregnancies. To be a maternal death, a mother must be pregnant. The question is how do birth control pills or condoms help a mother with obstructed labor or a postpartum hemorrhage. In my experience the women who die want to be mothers but are poor, young and have no influential voice to speak on their behalf. [They] are denied emergency care which is readily avail­able and inexpensive. This is culpable neglect by our world which has no con­cern for what a UNICEF report on maternal mortality." 
Obviously the real goal of the UNFPA is to reduce the number of babies born in developing countries through contra­ception and sterilization; any claim of improving maternal mortality is only a public relations ploy. At the core of the UNFPA's policies is an overbearing, selfish attitude that is focused on self­gratification and the manipulation of those of lesser power. This attitude is manifested by the idea that forced ster­ilization, abortions and the pervasive­ness of contraception arc all done for the good of the people, whi!B in rnality they dehumanize those in need of help. This imperialistic attitude is common among the UNFPA types. During the recent UNFPA Haque Forum, George Foulkes of the United Kingdom said, "We need to make contraceptives and condoms as easy to get hold of in the developing countries as a can of Coca­Cola." Similarly Hillary Clinton speak­ing on Oct. 18, 1997, on the role of women in Buenos Aires said. "the only road to improve the life of women is the massive promotion of contraceptive methods." 

In order to avoid the sacrifice of gen­uinely helping the poor these people seek to aleviate their feelings of guilt by supporting a plan which requires no effort or commitment. In this way they strive only to satisfy their personal needs with complete disregard to the real needs of the poor. 
By withdrawing our funding of the UNFPA, the U.S. has made a good first step; however the UNFPA attitude still persists among many in our culture. A sincere expression of generosity and selflessness is required to counter this attitude. In order to bring an end to the human rights abuses of the UNFPA and similar organizations we must demon­strate true love of neighbor and follow the challenge given to us by Mother Theresa in her Nobel prize acceptance speech. "This year being the child's year: What have we done for the child? At the beginning of the year I told, I spoke everywhere and I said: let us ensure this year that we make every single child born, and unborn, wanted. And today is the end of the year. Have we really made the children wanted?" 
Justin Kempf is a senior engineering major. The Right to Life column runs every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 
EVERYONE SAYS 


I 
WHAT DOES IT
YOU'RE A GREAT TAKE TO TURN
TURNAROUND CEO. 

AROUND A 
COMPANY LIKE THIS ONE? 
I 
e 
8 



I 
!iL----..J:=:;:::E:::,,,,j:....____.Jf______________, 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"God does not ask your ability or your inability. He asks only your availability." 
Mary Kay Ash business woman 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE Tm:s<l.1y, November 23, l999 BSERVER page 11 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Cle<ln plates are a small part ·of the solution 
I 111ak1! 110 prntcnsns; this leltcr convnys only Lim opin­
ions of' mw pnrson, plagued by the imperfm;,tion of life and 
cynical of his ahility of' rN:tifying thum. Nonntheless. when 
faced with criticism us to the Clcun Plate Prntr.st. I feel 
that I must rnspond and defond my actions. 
Tlw protnsl s1•nms to have bHon somewhat misunder­stood; whil1i we targeted food waste in the Notre Dame l>ininj.( llalls. the rnal aim was the so-called "throw away," out-ol'-sigl!t, out-of-mind mrntality, so conspicuous on our campus and in our country. As human beings, we arc gift­o<I with a faculty callNI reason that allows us to imagino things outside the maim of' direct exp1:rioncn. This means that whnn Wf! waste something, including food, we can imaghm that the wast1\ has to come from and go somc­whcrn. ;\ skady slream of nalurul resources and manpow­11 r has lJ1H111 infus1!d into each prnduct we find on our din­ing tahle or storn slrnlf. Similarly. when we consume some­thing and discard Lim waste, that waste has Lo go some­wlwrn. Wlwllrnr it is taken to a dump 10 or 100 miles away, llm trash we throw out will inevitably end up in somPone cls11·s front yard. With each thing we consmne, llwn1 is an nxorhitanl amount of baggag11 included in the production process; if the product is a necessity, we are jllstiliml in our actions. However, if we consunrnd mind­lnssly through supplicating our mason lo our finicky and capricious appPtitns. we are hold morally accounlable !'or our wastnf'ul actions. 
Wn can also sen, again using our reason, that an econo­
my based on a limited amount of' resources, which are 
handlnd in an impropPr and wasteful manner. will slowly 
undermine ii.self. Inevitably, when the resources run out, it 
will collapse; but by that time grnat damage will have 
alnrndy occurri•d. Through constant raping of' natural 
rnsourrns. great environmental damage is bound to occur. 
Similarly, through a constant struggle for limited 
rnsources, compPting internsl<; will innvitably clash, per­
haps violently, and cause unbounded social strife. To base 
a way of' life on a "throw away" mentality is to ensure a 
futuni of' (rnvironmcntal degradation and social upheaval. 
Sonw objections made to the protest were relevant, and 
somn wnre not. To haul the food away to be used as fodder 
is certainly a noble idea, but such an action would only 
alleviate tlrn symptoms and not destroy the disease. The 
wasteful mentality would still prevail, and in an indirect 
maimer, would be incorrectly justilied. 

To declarn that food unused will not a!Tcct waste and 
mnal-plan cost in the long run is a llawnd conclusion. The 
l(JSS food tlrn student body wastes, the less will have to be 
bought by the dining halls. The less money the dining halls 
spend on buying food, the less they will have to charge the 
students to make a profit. The connection is clear -if 
such a change does not occur, the integrity of the institu­
tion will havn to be addressed. 

The scope or the protest was small; several dozen indi­
viduals on the campus of a small university, appealing to 
thu small student body to recognize the appalling waste 
and alter their habits. To say that we wasted our time and 
tlw time of the students is an invalid criticism. Large insti­
tutional changes cannot be enacted unless there is a pre­
vailing change in the individuals who make up these insti­
tutions. The surest way to alter anything is to enact 
change on the personal level. It is certainly less glorious 
than massive and rapid reforms, but it is sure to prevail in 
the long nrn. 

I had a lovely lunch at South Dining llall today, and was 
able to see the resonance of the Clean Plate protest as I 
walked by the dish line. I observed mangled remains of 
pnrfoclly good moals strewn about the trays; I saw enor­
mous portions of unused food slowly trudged along to the 
iarb,tge clump. It seems as if it was business as usual for 
thll students. and thn protest was a waste. 
Such a thought, however, did not flash through my mind. 
Tlw claim that folJd waste would stop was never made by 
unyonn in our group. llowever, if only s1weral people were 
made aware of their habits. the protest was an outright 
victory and a succoss. Thal this !'act has occurred is mani­
festml in the comnrnnts made by t.he st.udents during the 
protest and Lim dialogue in The Observer. Someone had to 
have lhoughl about his or her habits; that is all we desired 
and l'arrmstly hopml for. We am the sound of' ants scream­
ing; but if' we yell hard and loud enough, the Qucon is 
bound to hear us, and will be forced lo stir. 
Andrzej Ignacius Bednarski 
Junior. Keough Hall 
November 22, I999 
Everyone needs a free press 
On Friday, tlrn Observer car­ried an advertisement for OUTrnach ND. In light of that I'm going to take the chance of' saying something controversial about free speech and 
Tim Byrne

the need for a morn open cli­
Progressive

mate of 
student

frcP. · 
alliance

expression on this campus. Briefly, I claim that alt of us, even tho most conserva­tive members of this community, should be committe1d lo the free public expression of diverse con­victions and the proliferation of groups espousing a variety of positions, even when such posi­tions contradict the magesteri­um of the Church. 
Religious conservatives often associate such pluralistic senti­menl'i with intellectual or moral relativism, as if the only reason to value pluralism is the belief that no one is in any significant sense right or wrong about any­thing. But I can think of at least two good reasons for even the most conservative Catholic to recognize the value nl' pluralism and the freedom of expression needed to sustain it. 
The first is the truth of fallibil­ity, the notion that human intel­lectual capacities are limited and that humans am prone to get many things wrong. The sec­ond is the important role dis­putes play in forcing us to cor­rect and to better articulate our own convictions. 
First, as fallible humans ­even as fallible vehicles of reve­lation, many of our beliefs are false. We also have no way of' knowing which ones are false. So we all go about our lives act­ing on our convictions, all the while realizing that some of the things we do will be based on false beliefs. This should not make us skeptical about our beliefs, but it should make us a bit more tolerant of those who believe differently. 
Tolerance doesn't require us to abandon our own convictions or to become relativists. Unless we lose sight of our human frailty, we should find ourselves with two sets of commitments, a commitment to our belief's on the one hand, and a commit­ment to tolerancn on tlrn ol111~r. stemming from the recognition that as humans we ol'tnn gcit things wrong (evon when we feel we have been divinely. inspired to think as we do). There is nothing particularly post-modern or liberal about espousing tolerance. The atti­tude follows from intellectual humility, a traditional Catholic virtue. 
Secondly, arguing about our beliefs is the way in which we correct our mistakes and improve the clarity and definition of our beliefs. Cardinal Newman argued that heresy has long been the prime mover in articu­lating doctrine. No one knew we needed to specify whether the Son was begotten or made until someone stepped forward and started saying quite definitely that he was made. Such challenges not only force us to defend our beliefs, but they also force us to specify exactly what those beliefs are. Doctrine exists only against a background of lively debate and dissent and lively debate and dissent exists only in communities where dis­senting voices are allowed to organize and have a public face. 
Convictions are not formed and honed in the mind, rather they are worked out through trying to live according to them, and by and large we work out our convictions in the day to day interaction with others going through the samo procPss. Tolerating opposing-vimvs moans allowing groups likn OUTreach to function. and that means at tlrn very leasl allowing them some access to campus media to enable them to say something about who they arl' and what they are trying to do here. 

To allow OUTreach Notrn Dame to advtlrtise is not to con­done homosexuality. It only shows due tolerance for a group that comprises many nwmbers 
who in fact disagree with the Church's teaching. It also shows a willing­ness to engag1: in a debato over Church doctrine, in tlrn good faith that such a dehatn 
might help even the most ardent advo­
cate of tlrn magistnrium to improve his under­standing of sexuality and sexual moral­ity. 
This com­munity should thank Michelle 
Krupa and thn editorial staff of' thn Observer for having the courage to lake a small st11p in tho right dirnction by running the OUTrcach ad Friday. Tho adminis­

tration's policy of ripping down posters and banning ads is inconsistent with the intellectual aspirations of this institution as a university. Anything that helps to promote a plurality of voices on this campus improves the intellectual climate of the place. That's something we should all appreciate. 
Tim Byrne is a member ofthe PSA and ofOUTreach ND. The PSA column is nm every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily £hose ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Pick on someone your size! 
A question to all the guys of NO: I'm 6':f' and 220 pounds. Can I dress up in a kilt, march around some and then shove your girlfriend in her chest'? Unless you're a lot different than I am, the answer is a resounding NO! What, then, gives our Irish Guard the right to do just that'? 
Let me explain: 1invited my fiance up from Cincinnati to watch the BC game this week­end. We walked around campus and stood by the entrance of the stadium to see the band march by. Jess was standing on the curb (along with about nine mil­lion other people). when the Irish Guard led the band onto the street. As the rightmost member of the Guard passed us, he shouted "Move" to Jess and shoved her in her chest, knock­ing her back a good three or four feet. I know it takes a real man to be over 6'2" and shovo a 5'7'' girl -come on. 
The really disturbing part of this is that Jess couldn't wait to see the Guard. She's been to a few games this season, but has never had tho chance to see the Guard up close. I would like to thank the member of the Guard who shoved her for completely ruining that experience. Also, you (and you know who you are) arc one of the least classy rep­resentatives a university could hope for. Your spot on the Guard is not a right, it's a privi­lege. The Irish Guard have long stood for honor -heck, they protect the band. We can all respect that. I do not respect shoving and yelling at visitors to our campus, though. 

For four years, I havo seen some members ol' the Irish Guard act like they were God's gift to the universe. Wake up guys. There aro no kilts in tho office, no people to yell at or to shove back. Being tall and look­ing good in a skirt might get you some respect here. but it no longer gets you mine. And by the way, next time you want to shove someone, I'm 6'3", 220 pounds and standing on the curb_ 
Mike Speaker 
Senior, Off-Campus November 21, l 999 


ALBUM REVIEW 

Stone Temple Pilots can't save itself with No. 4 
By CHRISTOPHER SHIPLEY Scene Music Critic 

On the cover of its new album is a sticker that simply reads, "With 'No. 4' the Stone Temple Pilots just might save rock and roll." Yeah, right. \Vhoevcr wrote that must have l.akcn some of the drugs frontman Scott Weiland left after his most recent trip to rehab. 


·• ..~••:,,rs•1enee 
··· 11otes• 
e .:·· 
·.···~·cta,iscmas1,n_r Supporced 
·:.·E~~rique
···· ,._.-<Time 
·:,,.q.-p1uaaed 
::. ,,,. 
·.··.. S 
:,; ::·: 
s... 
··e,Alive ·s~11"c11rack 
1'~$Jmas Classlics 
8b1e 
'is,c,nsin 
·. ty 
§87-91 tile 
Classical 
..r 

Ted Nu9enc 
TLC 
"._3,:.:...:4.)?#.:i,m.;.
Asents of Good 1110,,ts 
Incl•••·Gil"ls, ·. ,· / " ' ' Bdly Joel . 1oun.Nelleneamp:'."'1d~ 
. ~·" 
c .. unting· Crows Wtlco
Aueensryche·.· q;;"'t 
Rase Gresa Allman st•na S1ereolab Days of 1he New Old97s 
CheapTrlick Local H Nelil Dliamond 
Smithereens· Collective· Soul Freddy.Jones Ban.d Poi Dos Ponderins 

It has been nearly four years since the Pilots released its last album, the mediocre Tiny Music ... Songs From The Vatican Gift Shop. Since that record, countless rumors have been reported that lead singer Scott Weiland's heroin addiction and numerous stavs in a rehabilitation center, coupled ¼;i.th the band's des.ire l.o continue making music, would split the group up. 
So, in some sense, No. 4 is indeed a triumph for the Pilots. But the album as a savior of rock 'n' roll remains to be seen. Lyrically, No. 4 is a departure from everything the Pilots has done bPfore. Those albums were in one way or another about control. No.4 seems to lose all sense of emotional direction. 
With four albums, a flolo projflct and several collaborative efforts under his belt, Scott Weiland has proven himself as one of the most adept rock vocalists of this decade. However, on No. 4 il seems time, drug addiction and star­dom have all taken their toll on his writing ability. 
The results are utter confusion and songs that sound and read as if they arc completely out of control. In "Sour Girl," Weiland is able to express these feelings of isolation along with the nightmare of drug abuse: "I was a Superman but looks are deceiving/ The rollercoaster ride's a lonely one / I'd pay a ransom note to stop it from steaming." 
With a few exceptions, the musk on No. 4 is great. Tiny Music ... was an album without much substance and came off as rather airv. There is meat on the bones of all the· songs on No. 4, which is reminiscent ·of the band's first and best album. 
Robert and Dean. DeLeo take the lis­tener for a joyride with their guitars on songs like the first single "Down," "Heaven & Hot Rods" and "Glide," which sounds like it could have made its way onto Purple. The drums of Eric Ketz and other guest musicians crP.ate a deep, rich sound that Pilot fans can truly appreciate. 
Although Weiland and Company take their best shot, it is going to take a big­ger and better album than No. 4 to save ror,k 'n' roll, which for better or worse has been reincarnated in groups like Korn, Limp Bizkit and Kid Rock. 

Core and Purple were great rock albums from a group that has desper­ately tried to step out of the shadows cast by bands like Pearl Jam and Nirvana. Unfortunately, No. 4 has proven that, at least for now, the Stone Temple Pilots is simply trying to prove to itself that it can still put an album together. 

_______________________________ __,___________________________________ _ 

C 

O
THE Tuesday, November 23, 1999 BSERVER page 13 
MUSIC COLUMN/CONCERT REVIEW 
University of Illinois chooses kids who are all right 
Tlw (;et Up Kids aru one of thn biggest emo bands, but admission to this University of Illinois-sponsored show was only $Ci. Know why'' The Illini apparC'ntly have dee<n1t tastn in music and can pro­
John Huston

vide good, amirdable COllC(fftS to Uwir stu­d1•11ts. 
Ultimate 
Scene Music 

Faknbook, from Critic 1.awrnnce, Kan., opened up. Since Weezer isn't on tour at the moment.· thosn guys aw as close as you can come to the rnal thing. Ultimale Fakchook is u standard pop/punk three-piece with a sin!-{(ir/guitarist who usos his f'alsntto in a vory Buddy Ilolly-osquo way. 
IL tours all tlw time and has released two rnlativ!'ly hard-to-find full length alhu111s. ll's funny thal. they sound su much like Weezcr and not more like an '80s hair mclal band ~ lhe guitarist was sporting a Slaughter t-shirt. they d11scribed one of their songs as being 
ALBUM REVIEWS 
Band 'flecks' its muscles with greatest hits album 
What else can be said about Victor
By GEOFFREY RAHIE 
Wooten's bass skills? After hearing
Scene Mu,ic Critic 
this dude play bass one cannot listen to any other bassist for about threeAmazing. Thal pretty much sums up days. He plays complex lines that seem tlw musical talents of Bela Fleck as if five men were playing five differ­and the 0Llu1r members of the ent basses, without being overbearing. Fleckton(\S. Since 1990 the group has He can double any of Fleck's crazy rncorded many Grammy award-win­banjo licks or lay back and groove with 
ning albums that blend jazz, country Future Man. and other world influences. Greatest Credit should also be thrown to !lits of tlrn 20th Fleck, Future Man Ctmtury is a compi­,>'"'"'~~• and Coffin. Fleck 
lation of the band's 
standout tracks Bela flec.t ..-...;wJr; ~:~jo ~~f1s. i~;;:: 
from th,, last 10 
and the fleckttnei 
on "Vix 9," and then 
VPars. 
,.••'"""'''··•> compose a tender · Tlw al bum pro­melody on the beau­
vides a great tiful "Big Country." ov1!rvinw of tlw Future Man plays band's carnnr. Early his strange drum 
011, the band was contraption like no comprisnd of Bola one else (probably l;lnck on various because he built the hanjos. Victor contraption himselD. Wootl'n on bass. Coffin adds the Futuni Man on much-needed musi­
Synth/\x(• Drumitar cal ornamentation, (basically an nloc­as. on "Road House lric device used Blues." instnacl or a drum­Special guest Dave sntl and lloward Matthews sings Lnvy on piano, syn­backup vocals on tlrnsiznrs and har­"Communication," monica. which unfortunately 
/\ftnr Ll'vy left ill is the weakest scmg. l <Jl)2. llw bilnc! con­It is tho only song on Linund on as a trio lnterscope Rec:.,rJ;ts , the record with 
until ii land(id tlrn vocals, and demon­l'XCPl!tmt saxophonP stratcs why this con­
**** (Qyt:~r q~~T.:::,~;t.
playnr Jdf Coffin Inst ynar. Dnspil1• tho persomwl changes, the music has 1Hw1,r suffnrod one bit. 
Dy1rnmir. ins1ruml'ntals am what tlw band is best at. and that's why they co111prisn lO of the l l tracks on the disc. Songs lik<\ "Tho Sinister Minister" cr,!tLtc such tension with Woolen·s booming bass and L,wy's mysterious harmonica it makes onn fnnl as though ho is Lrapped on a dark alley. Tlw nnxt track. "Stomping (irounds," is so damn happy it makns Llw listoncr want lo go outside and plant some llowcrs. The sound or llw repeLitivn bridgn Ind by Flm:k's frnewhnnliug banjo is adtlic­liVfl. 
temporary ensemble 
should only play instrumental pieces. Puture Man sings empty lyrics while lhc band strug~les to back him up. Matthews' singing only compounds the problem since his vocal stvl~ does not fit in with the band's genre at all. 
This disc might be better suited towards the new ran trying to get a sample of what the band is all about. Established fans of the Flecktones will probably have all of tho songs in their collections anyway. Ir the mission of' the rocord was to show what has been going on in the contemporary jazz world the past ten years, the band has truly succeeded. 
about "sitting in my basement listening to Motley Crue" and the singer kept giving the crowd the heavy metal salute (or the "hook 'em horns" sign, depending on where you're from). They provided semi­boring music along with a semi-boring p11rformance. 
Al lhe Drive-In (ATDI) was completely the opposite. Chaos is the best way to doscribe its live show to someone who has never seen the band. ATDI is non­stop energy. Having just signed to a big-time label. DEN Records, it recently embarked on a weeklong tour with Hage Against the Machine. Too bad for'Rage ­they will never be ablo.rto match ATDl's intlmsity. 
Al'tcr a couple songs, tho PA system was Lrielly blown out. and later, the lead singer's continual microphone abuse stopped tho show for a few minutes while duct tape was brought out to repair it. Nobody seemed to mind -it gave the crowd a chance to catch its collective breath. Songs such as "Chanbara," Napoleon Solo" and "Pickpocket" pack a powerful punch, especially live. 
ATDI has two releases under its belt ­a full length album, In/Casino/Out, and an EP, Vaya. Both are excellent, but neither compare to the live show. At the Drive-In is one of lhose bands that can't come across on record as amazingly as they do in person. 
The Got Up Kids, however, sound every bit as good on record as they do live. Its most recent album, Something To Write llome About, was preceded by a major label bidding war. The GUK chose to leave one indie label, Doghouse Records, to sign with another, Vagrant. 
Unfortunately, the band isn't as punk rock as it wants to appear. It added a keyboard player, has a video on MTV, used top-notch production on the new album and now is beginning to attract an (mormous following. Tho Get Up Kids need to realize that it is not the under­ground punk hand it used to be. It's inevitable that people will call them "Tho Sell Out Kids," "The Get Rich Kids" or "The Rock Star Kids." 

The Doctor is in with release of Chronic 200 I 

By BRIAN KORNMANN Scene Music Critic 
Dr. Dre is one of the most influen­tial individuals in rap music today, however over the last few years there hasn't been much heard from him. Dr. Dre (a.k.a. Andre Young) has always been known within the rap industry as a genius music producer, but with the debut of NWA Dre rose to promi­nence as a rapper. Labeled the "Most 

Dangerous Band In album, this album is America" by Tipper filled with obscene Gore's rightwing lyrics and glorifies Parents Music violence to no end. Resource Center, And much likn the NWA achieved original Chronic, incredible success this album is a 
while it was togeth­must-own.. er. Besides selling The album fea­
millions of albums, tures the reunion of NWA ws one of the Dr. Dre and Snoop first rap groups to Doggy Dogg. achieve great suc­Eminem, MC Hen. 
cess within white Hittman and Kurupt 
America. In addi­appear multiple .... 
tion, · it brought times on the album much needed atten­as well, adding to tion to the troubles its depth. Orn varies that exist within the from his usual deep inner-cities of bass-heavy synthe­
America. sizer beats several The earlv '90s times on this album 
saw the ~nd of with great success. NWA and the sub­The most notable of 
..
sequent rise of Dr. thesP songs is 
Dre as a solo artist. Dre's solo career peaked with the 1992 release of The Chronic. Although widely criticized for its harsh descrip­tion of women and glorification of vio­lence, .the album was an instant suc­cess. It combined the hard-edged lvrics of NWA and the P-Funk beats of Dr. Dre and introduced the world to Snoop Doggy Dogg. Snoop went on to great success after the album. while Dr. Dre seemed to slowly fade away. 
In 1996 Dr. Dre released Aftermath in an attempt to remove his former "gangster rapper" image. Although the album was musically more diverse than The Chronic, it did not grab lis­teners' attention and make them want to listen like The Chronic did. As such, 

The good thing about The Whatever­You-Want-to -Cal1-Thcm Kids, unlike most bands that break out of obscurity, is that it is still an amazing group of song­writcrs and performers. It played an hour-Jong set sprinkled with tunes from each of its releases, including 'Tm A I.oner Dutt.ie ... A Rebel" from lhe band's Split T' with 8raid, "Don't !late Me" from its first album, Four Minute Mile, "Woodson" from their first EP and many more. 
What Notre Dame should do, since it apparently can't schedule decent con­certs on its own, is set up a shuttle to Champaign-Urbana every weekend so that music-lovers can more easily nnjoy the spoils of the University of' Illinois. 
Even wilhout the shutlle, At the Drive­In and The Get Up Kids made the $6 tick­et price and the throe hour car ride every bit worth the effort. 
The views expressed in lhis column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
the album met bad reviews and poor sales. 
That was the last anyone really heard from Dr. Dre until this summer. In the midst of the No-Limit and Wu­Tang era of rap, Dr. Dre recently found fame again with the discovery of Eminem. Dre returned to his for­mer gangster rap style as the produc­er of Eminem's album, Slim Shady. 
Dre followed up on this success with the highly anticipated release of The 
Chronic 2001. Much 
like the first Chronic 
"Murder Ink,'' 

which featurns a sped up sample of' 
the theme song from the Hal!ow1rnn 
horror series. The album is strong from beginning to end, but a few tracks stand out as great even upon a first listen. "D.ILE." (Dre and Snoop), "What's the .... Difference" (Drn, Eminem and Xzibit). "Forgol About Dre" (l)ro and Eminem), and "Some L.A. N****z" (Dre. Mc Ren, Time Bomb and Kokanc) are all excellent. The album will probably be considered offensive by many, and there is good mason f'or that. However, fans of rap music ­particularly of NWA. Snoop Doggy Dogg and Eminem -will find this album a must-own. 
----.. 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 23, 1999 
NHL 

The Great One inducted into Hall of Fame 

Associated Press 
TORONTO 
Wayne Gretzky handled the ultimate tributr~ to his unparalleled hockey career -induction in the Hall of Fame -with the same boy-next-door humil­ity that characterized his playing days. 
Jn typical Gretzky fashion, The Gn'lat One tried to share the limelight with his two fellow inductees -formc•r ref­eree Andv Van llellemond and former referee-in-chief Scotty Morrison ­when they received their Hall of Fame blazers and rings at a ceremony Monday jammed with journalists. 
Gretzky insisted that Morrison take tlrn center seat at the interview table and called the honor of joining his co­
;;; inductees in the J-Iall "pretty special." Such gestures have made Gretzky a national hero in Canada, honored and loved as the greatest to ever play the game. When asked what made him the most dominant player of all time, Gretzky credited his teammates and a passion that drove him to always want more from himself. "I felt like I'd never done enough. If I had three goals. I wanted five goals. If Jhad seven points, l wanted to get the eighth point." he said. "I kept going every night. played 80 games every year as hard as rcould, whether it was Oct. 1 or April 1. "Maybe that's why I was able to have the records that I did eventually get,"said the holder of 61 NHL records whose trademark No. 99 was retired after his final game. The 38-year-old master left an extra­ordinary mark on the game, with four Stanley Cup championships, almost every conceivable scoring record and winning every major NHL award mul­tiple times. He longs for the camaraderie and competition left behind by retirement, but said his decision to stop playing is final. "Nothing can replace hockey," he said. "I wish I could still play and 1 miss it tremendously because it's a great game. "But r said this before: I was going to retire one time, one time officially and I'm officially retired. I probably miss the game more than the game misses 
In conjunction with Gretzky's induc­straight Stanley Cup finals, and "It's just nice to know that Wayne
Wayne Gretzky." 

His legacy is evident, on and off the tion, the Hall of Fame opened its Morrison, credited with building the has turned out to be such a great indi­largest single exhibit, a 2,300-square­Hall of Fame into one of Canada's vidual," Walter Gretzky said. "His
ice. The NHL now features increasing 
foot collection of Gretzky memorabilia leading tourist attractions, joked they hockey achievements are one thing,
numbers of swift-skating, highly skilled 
that includes the skates he wore in his were now the answer to the trivia but he's also a very fine person."
European players who prospered 
final game on April 18, the net into question of who was inducted with No. Thin and shifty with an unmatched
under the flowing, puck-control style 
which he scored his league-record 99 in 1999. ability to anticipate. Gretzky scored
played by Gretzky and his Edmonton 
802nd goal and even his picture as a Morrison acknowledged Gretzky's more goals (894) and had more assists
Oiler teams of the 1980s that won four 
smiling youngster with idol Gordie humble approach, telling how Gretzky (1,963) than anyone before him. His
championships in five seasons. 

Howe. rejected a plan to move the ceremony assists alone exceed the 1,850 total
Eight NHL teams play in southern 
The Hall waived the normal three­to a bigger venue because he wanted points of the No. 2 career scorer,
U.S. cities formerly considered unsuit­
year waiting period for the 10th time the same ceremony in the same place Howe, who played past age 50.
able for a winter game such as hockey, 
in honor of Gretzky and accredited 175 as those before him. That came as no When asked if the NHL should name
due in part to Gretzky's seven-plus 
journalists for the ceremony. surprise to one of the onlookers, a trophy for him, Gretzky deferred to
years in Los Angeles and the populari­
Both Van Hellemond, who worked 19 Wayne's father, Walter. his elders, as usual.
ty he helped spread. 

,,,, . 
The Observer acceprs classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

NOTICES WANTED 
THE COPY SHOP Free One Bedroom Apartment near Lafortune Student Center Campus PHONE 631-COPY www.CopyShopND.com A family with three children seeks fun.energetic student or graduate to Store Hours: live in charming apartment for 
FREE in exchange for mutually Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight agreeable babysitting responsibili-Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm ties. Sat Noon-6:00pm
... 
Sun: Noon-Midnight Fax name,phone # and brief note describing experience and interests to: Walker
LOST & FOUND 
at 233-2308. 

LOST: Silver Charm Bracelet Free CD of cool indie music when lost in middle of October you register at mybytes.com, the High sentimental value. ultimate website for your college 
needs. x3727 -Megs 

FOR RENT 
ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE HOME FOR ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 243-0658. 
WALK TO SCHOOL http://mmmrentals.homepage.com 232-2595 or mm.rentals@aol.com 
FOR SALE 
Spring Break Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise 5 Days $2791 Includes Meals! Awesome Beaches,Nightlife!Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights From $3991 Florida $129!springbreaktravel .com 1-800-678-6386 Phone Cards 669rnin. $20 243-9361 or 258-4805 
SPRING BREAK 2000 
PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA FROM $149 PER PERSON SAND­PIPER BEACON BEACH RESORT THE "FUN PLACE"! TIKI BEACH BAR ENTERTAIN­MENT BY BOOGIE INCORPORAT­ED BIKINI CONTESTS MALE HARD BODY CONTESTS 
3 POOLS LAlY RIVER RIDE WATER SLIDE HUGER BEACH FRONT HOT TUB MINI GOLF GIFT SHOP SUITES UP TO 10 PEOPLE 
1-800-488-8828 WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM 
MINT' 46,000 MILES '92 WHITE SATURN 4 DOOR SEDAN.STICK. 
$5,800. 217-7185 

Color Printer  
HP DeskJet 682C  Looking for a unique gift idea?  
$65  How about a personalized color pie- 
Pat 243-5354  lure calendar? Bring in 12 of your  
favorite pictures and we·11 do the rest  
THE COPY SHOP  
PERSONAL  Lafortune Student Center  
www.thecommentator.com  
Spring Break 2000 Free Trips &  www.NDToday.com  
Meals.  
Jamaica,Cancun.Bahamas,Barbad  Babysitter needed for 4-year old,  
os,Florida,Padre.Book now for Free  transportation required. Tues. &  
Meals & 2 Free Trips.Book before  Thurs. 2:45-7:45 or 5:30-7:45 for  
Dec. 17 for LOWER PRICES!!  Spring semester. Experience with  
children preferred but not neces­ 
1aoo-426-n10  sary.  Call Beth at 254-9060 or  
www.sunsplashtours.com  email at BLP1975@aol.com.  

STUDENT WORK I wish I could hear more about Vector Marketing Corp. is now filling Joey. pit cust. sales & service positions. Flex. around class. Transfers avail. Why couldn't she let me sleep? over breaks. $10.55 base-appt. Good resume exp. scholarships Happy Thanksgiving from The awarded, cond. apply. call mon-wed Observer. We'll be back next 
12:30-5:30prn 282-2357 Tuesday. 
page 15

Tuesday, November 23, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS 
-



-



-
FORTUNE
10~~,­
~(I
TIWIUfll 

l_magine looking forward to the week as much as you look forward to the weekend. Imagine spending each minute with unlimited opportunity and continuous options. At Ernst & Young we provide access to the most sophisticatt;d and effective tools in the industry. See you Monday. www.ey.com 
CONSULTING• TAX• ASSURANCE 
iii fRNST& YOUNG 
FROM THOUGHT TO FINISH.™ 
C!:>1999 ERNST & 'l'oUNG ILP 

page 16 the Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 23, 1999 
.,,,.. 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

No. 22 Purdue defeats Chaminade, 96-78 in Maui 
the opening round of the Maui with 8:23 left. UMass had to blocks in a game, dogged the 27 points on 9-for-11 shooting
Associated Press 

Invitational. . resort to fouling at that point lane and blocked four shots in for the Terps (3-0), who entered 
Chaminade, the Division II Massachusetts 79-65 Monday host school for the eight-team night. 
-
tournament, saw its record in The Minutemen (1-1) were the 16 years of the tournament able to run with the speedy fall to 3-41. The Silverswords Huskies but fell victim to poor did have Purdue, which shooting (33 percent) and a 
reached the round of 16 in the dominating inside UConn game. 
NCAA tournament the last two UConn (3-1) outrebounded 
seasons, concerned about their UMass 48-39 and reserve Ajou 
reputation as a giant-killer. Deng had four of UConn's seven blocks. UMass got within 54-51 with
Florida 60, Utah State 58 

8:46 remaining in the game on
Donnell Harvey's rebound consecutive 3-pointers from

basket with 1:16 left gave No. 6 Monty Mack, Jonathan DepinaFlorida the lead for good and and Ronell Blizzard. 

Major Parker's block of a 3­A 3-pointer from Albertpointer with six seconds left 

Mouring and two free throwssealed the Gators' 60-58 victory from Souleymane Wane helpedover Utah State on Monday in the Huskies build a 59-51 lead 

Think ofus 
as yourscliool bus. 
800-833-5555 
www.busvme.com. 
UNITED LIMO· 
Your Airport Connection, O'Hare & Midway, All Day... Every Day 
The Gators (2-0} will play No. and the Huskies made 11 ·of-19 the opening four minutes as the AP poll for the first time
LAHAINA, Hawaii 

22 Purdue, a 96-78 winner over free throws down the stretch to Syracuse scored the first 11 Monday aft.er sp1mding all last
Brian Cardinal is adding to 

Chaminade, in Tuesday's semi­ice the game. points of the game and threat­season ranked seventh or high­
his reputation as the nation's 

finals. The Huskies broke a 5-all tie ened to run away with it early. er. Maryland faces No. 11
leader in floor burns and hustle 

Florida struggled with its 3-with a 13-4 run early in the The Owls, with four junior Kentucky on Wednesday night
plays. 

point shooting in the second first half. El-Amin fueled the college transfers and three in the semifinals of the
The senior ro·rward matched 

half and Utah State (1-1 }, which spurt with five points and freshmen on their roster, at Preseason NIT.
his career high with five 3­

had one starter back from last reserves Wane and Ajou Deng first seemed intimidated by Sophomore Wim Van de
pointers and scored 29 points to 

season, held tough in the game each added four. The Huskies their surroundings and missed Keere scored a career-high 16
lead No. 22 Purdue to a 96-78 

that had seven lead changes in led 37-31 at the half. their first 10 shots. But they points for the Knights (0-1).
victory over Chaminade on 

the final 4 1/2 minutes. Monty Mack led all scorers refused to fold right away. who had seven litild goals and
Monday in the opening round of 

Bernard Rock's only 3-pointer with 26 points. Kitwana After DeShaun Williams and 17 turnovers in the first half. 
the Maui Invitational. 

of the game gave the Aggies a Rhymer had 17 rebounds for Preston Shumpert hit consecu­It was the 67th consecutive
"That was one of the better 

58-57 lead with 1:37 left. UMass. tive 3-pointers to key a 10-point non-conference home victory
games of Brian's career," 

Florida's Mike Miller missed a 3 Monday's game was the surge in 61 seconds, part of a for the Terrapins, the longest
Purdue coach Gene Keady said 

on the next possession but 102nd meeting between the 25-2 Syracuse run, the Owls current streak in the nation.
of the stat line that had 

Harvey put back the rebound schools. UConn has an eight­found their long-range touch Maryland, which starts five
Cardinal grabbing nine 

and the Gators had the lead for game winning streak against and rallied with a 21-4 surge. underclassmen, has won nine
rebounds and shooting 9-for-14 

good. the Minutemen, winning 17 of A trio of 3-pointers by Hercek straight regular-season games. 
from the field. 5-of-6 from 3­

Rock missed a long layup on the last 18 meetings and leads and two by Motiejus Reimeris It was the eighth-most lop­
point range. "He plays the game 

Utah State's next possession but the series 64-38. moved the Owls to 40-30 with sided victory in school history.
with head and his body. With 

Florida missed on two scoring 6:01 left. But Syracuse's start­The Terrapins scored the
the outside shooting, he's capa­

opportunities as Brett Nelson ing five then returned, and the game's first five points before
ble of doing that and he's confi­Syracuse 105,
missed on a drive and Millor's Owls managed just two baskets Keith Martin made a free throw
dent." 
Florida Atlantic 79

long jumper as the 35-second the remainder of the half and for the Knights. Maryland then
The 6-foot-8 Cardinal has 
Etan Thomas returned to the

shot clock expired missed. trailed 53-34 heading into the reeled off 18 straight points for
always been known for his give­Syracuse lineup with a
Utah State called a timeout second half. a 23-1 lead b,~fore FDU's Khalid
up-the body attitude, now he's 

with 16 seconds left and the vengeance Monday night with Seven points by Damone Coursey scored on a drive with
a 3-point threat with five 

Aggies worked the ball to Troy 24 points, 12 rebounds and Brown, who finished with 17 12:10 left in the half. 
against Michigan in the Big Ten 

Rolle on the left side but Parker nine-blocks as the No. 14 points and eight rebounds, and Fairleigh. Dickinson coach
tournament last season, four 

came out and blocked the shot. Orangemen defeated Florida consecutive baskets by Thomas Tom Green couldn't possibly
against Miami in the NCAA 
Atlantic 105-79. 

Teddy Dupay added a free put Syracuse up 73-45 with just have envisioned his team start­
tournament and the five against 

throw with 2.1 seconds left for Syracuse, which began the more than 13 minutes left in ing the season in worse fashion:
Chaminade. season with convincing victories 
the final margin. the game and the Owls were O-for-10 from the floor with
"To be honest. the first one 
over Princeton and Wisconsin 

finished. nine turnovers.
felt good and I kept shooting." in the NABC Classic, easily 
Tony Lee led the Owls with 17 In contrast, things were going
Cardinal said. "If I missed that Connecticut 79, UMass 65 defeated the overmatched Owls. 
points, Hercek had 16, Darius so well for the Terrapins that
first one I might have stopped. I Khalid El-Amin scored 18 Florida Atlantic (0-1) fielded a 
Skeete 14, Marques Williams Dixon scored from 12 feet while 
haven't really thought about it. points and Edmund Saunders starting lineup with only one 
13, and Reimeris 12. attempting to set up Lonny
I just want to make plays and had 10 rebounds as No. 7 player, senior guard Ryan 
Jason Hart had 15 points and Baxter with an alley-oop pass.
keep things going." Connecticut held off Hercek, with Division I experi­Kueth Duany 13 for Syracuse. That made it 28-5, and after 
ence. 

FDU closed to 34-14, NicholasThe Orangemen scored 100 had a pair of 3-pointers in a 14­
Maryland 104,
points for the first time since 0 run that made it 48-14. 
beating Winthrop 106-51 in the Fairleigh Dickinson 45 

The Terrapins led 59-24 at 
1996-97 season-opener, and Juan Dixon scored nine of his halftime and 91-41 with seven 
Thomas led the way after hav­21 points in a game-opening minutes remaining. 
ing missed the first two games 23-1 run that powered No. 24 Maryland forward Terence 
of the season with a staph Maryland past overmatched Morris, a preseason All­
infection. Fairleigh Dickinson 104-45 on America selection, missed seven The senior center, who Monday night. 
of 10 shots and finished with matched his school record for Freshman Drew Nicholas had seven points. 
i-ATTENTION STUDENTS:. 
i WHY SELL YOUR USED TEXTBOOKS BACK TO THE BOOKSTORE FOR I LESS WHEN YOU CAN SELL THEM DIRECTLY TO ANOTHER STUDENT? 
CAMPUSMONSTER.CCM ALLOWS STUDENTS TO SELL THEIR 'JSED I TEXTBOOKS TO OTHER STUDENTS. YOU WILL MAKE MORE MONEY j AND YOUR FELLOW STUDENTS WILL SAVE MORE! IT'S THAT SIMPLE. 
LOG ON NOW·AND LIST YOUR FALL SEMESTER TEXTBOOKS AND GET 
I 

ENTERED FOR THE CHANCE TO WIN YOUR NEXT SEMESTERS BOOKS FOR FREE!!!! THAT'S RIGHT. WE WILL HOLD A DRAWING ON DECEM­BER 130, 1999 TO FIND THE WINNER OF OUR" SEMESTER FOR FREE" CONTEST. YOU WILL RECEIVE 1 ENTRY FOR EVERY BOOK YOU LIST. THE MORE BOOKS YOU LIST THE BETTER YOUR CHANCES OF WIN­NING. 
WHEN YOU'RE THERE, GET THE LATEST SCOOP ON WHAT'S HAPPEN­ING AT YOUR COLLEGE 0.R AT CAMPUSES AROUND THE COUNTRY. THERE'S ALSO A SECTION WITH UP TO DATE SCORES AND COLLEGE NEWS. 
FROM TEXTBOOK SWAPPING, COLLEGE APPAREL ANO GAME TICKETS TO THE LATEST CAMPUS NEWS, IT'S ALL JUST A CLICK AWAY AT CAM­PUSMONSTER. COM 


PUSfflODSTDR.COffl 
"If J,Ve clon't ha.ve it," you can't get it!" 
~ ---­
page 17Tuesday, November 23, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS 

Come to Me all you who labor and are heavily burdened, And I will give you rest ... 

I make a holy hour each day in ihe presence ofJe_sus in the Blessed Sacrament. All my sisters ofthe Missionaries of Charity make a daily holy hour as well, because we find that through our daily holy hour our love for Jesus becomes more intimate, our love for each other more under­standing, and our love for the poor more compassion-ate... " 
-Mother Teresa 
Sponsored by Notre Dame Right to Life 
Jesus is here with us in the Euchari~t to give us answers-answers that will lead us to truth, happiness and peace. In this culture of death, it is easy for people tq become weary and indifferent to God and His gift of life. People often fall short of their obligation to care for and nurture the spiritual and physical lives of themselves and others. Eucharistic Adoration gives a person the opportunity to nurture his own spiritual life, as well as the spiritual lives of others (through prayer for them.) Prayer also protects the physical lives of those 
endangered by abortion, euthanasia and· other forms of violence. This is because, it is only through the grace which comes from prayer that other's hearts can be changed from see~ing death to loving life. Christ gives us the strength to press on i_n our battle for life. In order to be Christ-like in our service to preserve life, we must be filled with His life through prayer. To be Christian, we must follow Christ. If He is not the source of all we do, it is worth nothing. We ask you to join us in prayer for life... 
What is Eucharistic Adoration? 

God is present to us in many ways in our world, but He is especially present to us in the Eucharist. As Roman Catholics, we believe that Jesus Christ, who lived 2000 years ago. is trul}'.' present in the Eucharist. In Eucharistic Adora4.9p, the Host is placed in a monstrance, in order for us to be al>le to come and pray. Jesus. is always hidden in the tabernacle, but in adoration he is exposed so that we can come and knell before Him, face to face, and speak with our God. When Jesus is exposed like this, He can never be left alone. Thus, people sign up to be responsi­ble to some and pray with Him for a certain amount of time (usually I hour) every week. 
Why should I go? 

If Jesus were to come to the JACC, would you come and-stand in line for ours just to talk to Him for a minute? Even if-you weren't Christian, wouldn't you be at least interested in this God so may people talk about? Well, Jesus is truly, physi­ca1ly present here on campus.:. in the Eucharist. IN ADORATION YOU HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY TO GO AND SPEAK WITH YOUR GOD FACE TO FACE. You confide in Him, plead with Him, question Him. And if you sit quietly enough, he will inspire you with answers. 
What do I do when I am there? 

When you enter the chapel, you should genuflect as a sign of reverence to Jesus. It is common practice during Adoration to genuflect on two knees; instead of just one ­(like you do whenever you enter a chapel.) You can stand, sit, or kneel-whatever · position you pray best in. And then you pray. There are many ways to pray: you can do spiritual reading; you can.pray·~ rosary; you can sit in silence; you can even just talk to Jesus-like you would to a 'friend. The most important thing is that you love Him and allow Him to love and strengthen you. 
What does the Church think? ­
"Exposition of the Blessed Sacrament, whether in a pyx or a monstrance, is a recognition of the wondrous Presence of Christ in the sacrament and stimulates us 
to unite ourselves to Him in a spiritual communion. It is, accordingly, eminently in harmony with the worship which we owe Him in spirit and truth ..." 
-Post-Conciliar (Vatican II) Document, S.CD.W. 
AMDG JMJ 

. EUCHARISTIC ADORATION ON CAMPUS: Friday: Lady Chapel in the Basilica: 12:00pm (following 11:30 Mass)-5:00pm with a Rosary beginning at 4: 15. (Ends with Benediction ~t 4:45) Monday· beginning at ll:30pm·(following 11 :OOpm Mass) through TUesday at I0:OOpm (Ending with Benediction at 9:45-'-I 0:00) In Fisher Hall Chapel. 
;---­
I ! 
l 
r 
Tuesday, November 23, 1999

I page 18 The Observer . SPORTS 
i 
; 
Sorin finishes second, rector goes out on top 

It wasn't quite as dramatic as the hallowed "Win one for the Gippcr" monologue, but the men of Sorin College will remember the words spoken by their long-time rector, Father Steve Newton, at the annual hall ban­quet this past Thursday, as inspiring nonethe­
Kevin Berchou
less. 
Everyone present knew something was amiss. They had been sports writer told to make a concert­ed effort to attend the dinner as a crucial announcement was to be made. 
You see, throughout his 11 years as rector of Sorin, Father Newton has immersed him­self in hall activities. He wasn't merely a priest with a big room, but a father figure and a friend. As a freshman, it's taken me but three short months to realize that Father Newton saw it as his duty to be there when the men of Sorin needed him most -be it in the chapel or on the sidelines of an interhaU football game. And you can be sure that Father Newton never missed an interhall football game. He savored them for they involved two of his loves in life -sports and the men of Sorin. 
It was onlv natural that when Father 
Newton approached the podium after dinner 
had concluded, his first words were of the 
football team and how proud he was of them. 
He told 1.hem how happy he was that they 
had once again made the championship, and 
hailed their commitment to practicing. He 
had seen that team through thick and thin for 
11 years, and though he probably saw him­
self as a fan, he was more than that. As evi­
denced by the blue Sorin jersey he wore each 
game day, exactly like the one worn by the 
other members of the squad, Father Newton 
wasn't just a fan, he was part of the team ­
every bit as important as the star quarter­
back or the coach. You could just see how 
badly he wanted to win. 
After mentioning the team, Father Newton 
moved to the night's most important matter. 

After describing the impact that his summer work as a missionary in Africa had had on his life, the longtime rector of Sorin announced that this year would be his last. He would begin to help the people through­out the world full time.just as he had done for the length of his tenure at Sorin. 
A quick glance around the room showed well over 100 young men lighting back tears. They weren't losing a rector; they wern los­ing a f'riend. 
The unspoken message was clear. Sorin needed to defeat Knott. The men of Sorin could give Father Newt.on no bettr.r a farewell gift than to bring home that elusive interhall football championship on Sunday. The Otters would go out and "fight, light, light" and give it their all. They would try to win one for the rnctor, win one for their friend. For victory is a great way to say so long. 
But as we all know, even the best-laid plans go awry. There would be no fairytale ending to this story. Despite fighting hard and hanging in right down to the last down. the Otters fell to Knott by a score of 24-6. Looking at Father Newton at the game's con­clusion, [ figured he would be taking the defe_at hard. Much to my surprise, his reac­tion was quite the opposite. 
Instead he was smiling, grinning from to 
ear to ear. At that point I realized that it 
wasn't the outcome that was of paramount 
importance, rather it was the effort of the 
team that Father Newton apprnciated. He 
savored the camaraderie and once again 
thanked the team for the enjoyment in had 
provided him with. There was no doubt 
about it. The Sorin interhall football team 
made Father Newton's last year at Notre 
Dame a inemorablfl one. 
Fudge-House.com 
Free Fudge, check it out. 




_....--: 

Tuesday, November 23, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
several students who tore up
Associat«l l'rcss 
small strips of Pitt Stadium's art.ilicial turf returned them loPITTSBUHGI I university officials. 
Pitt can practice in its own After the fans ripped up thestadium again this week aftN 
turf following Pitt's 37-27 
HAP. 
upset victory over Notre Dame on Nov. 13, coach Walt Harris questioned if repairs could be made in time for practice this week. 
The Panthers play Saturday at rival West Virginia. 
As school officials pondered how to temporarily repair the field, practices were moved last week to Pitt's new South Side practice facility. 
Athletic director Steve Pederson on Monday com­mended the students for returning the turf and said pieces of the turf will be made available to all students once Pitt Stadium is torn down. 
The 74-year-old stadium is being leveled to make room for a new basketball arena. Pitt will play next season in Three Rivers Stadium before moving into the new Steelers stadium in 2001. 
did." Klemmer fought off illness 
NCAA 

during the race. 
The rest of the Irish squad
continued from page 24 

performed at the lovel in the top live." Connelly thought tlrnm capa­
Arkansas easily won the ble of. race with only 58 points, fol­"They all l'inislrnd one right lowed by Wisconsin (185), after thn other," Connelly North Carolina State, Stanford said. "They did exactly what and Michigan. we asked them to. We wen~ 
The individual champion counting on a couple of thosP. was David Kimani, a fresh­lower numbnrs to help us fin­man from South Alabama, ish where we wanted to." who finished in a meet record The third through seventh time of 30:06.60. runners had a great pack 
The women's squad, run­race, all finishing within 11 ning without returning All­seconds of one another. American JoAnna Deeter, did "We did one thing well," 
not have high expectations Handley said. "We all ran as a after rnceiving a surprise bid team." to the national meet. They Senior Patty Hice cmded her were hoping to wind up in the cross country career by fin­
top 20 but had to settle for ishing 186th overall and third 29th place in the race. for the Irish. Junior Erin 
Women's coach Tim Olson was 191st, senior Connelly was hoping for more Nicole LaSellr. follownd, and out of lead runner Allison junior Chrissy Kuenster and Klemmer and Handley, who senior Erin Luby were the was second for the Irish. final Irish runners. Klemmer hoped to be in the "The teams up f'ront, even top 25 and to earn All-the team that was the huge 
-American honors, but she fin­favorite -Stanford -ended ished 73rd. Handley ended up up third," Connelly said. "The 134th in the 5K race. thing with that national moot "I give her (Klemmer] cred­is if teams go in there and just it," Connelly said. "She went hold form, they're going to do out and tried to run exactly well. Unfortunately in that the way she planned to run, kind of situation with 18-, 19-. and then just couldn't finish 20-year-olds, there's a lot of it. She's pretty disappointed; pressure." she had high expectations. Brigham Young raced to the "Jennifer Handley didn't women's national champi­run very well. 1 thought she'd onship, with Arkansas second finish about where Allison and Stanford third. 
CLUB SPORTS 

Bowlers roll to sixth at Wisconsin-Oshkosh 
Buttke's 184 and Anne 
Special to The Observer 

Deitch's 179 averages. Darren Kraft and John Duggan posted The bowling club was the 176 and 166 averages, respc~c­only club sport in action this tively, to complete the teamweekend as it participated in 
scoring. Kraft and Pawlak
the University of Wisconsin­rolled strong performances inOshkosh Titan Invitational. 

the doubles competition asThe bowlers improved well. finishing fifth in thatmarkedly on their previous 
event.
two performances, finishing 

The only club competing
sixth, after not being able to Thanksgiving weekend will becrack the top 30 earlier this the Sailing club, at the Chicago 

year. Jason Pawlak's 200 Yacht Club's 53rd Mark 

average paced the club, sup­

Timme Angsten Memorialported strongly by Dan 
Regatta . 

I s4050 All Shows Before 6 pm • Advance Ticket Sales Available :-1 (5.. 
·­
All Times for Nov. 24th Only 

I Tuy Story 2 (G) Anywhere Bnt Here {PG-13) Digital . 
; 4:00 6:30 8:50 Digital 5:05 7:40 10: 15 
' 4:30 7:00 The Bone Collector (R) Digital 
; 5:00 7:30 5:15 7:50 10:35 
: End of Days (R) Digital Douhlc Jeopanly (RJ Digital : 
: 4:15 7:15 9:50 5:35 8:10 10:35 
. 5:10 7:45 J0:20 The Sixth Sense (PG-13) Digital 
: The World is Not Enuugh <PG-13) 4:55 7:25 9:55 
: 3:40 6:40 9:40 Digital The M~nger: (R) Digit.ii ... 
4:10 7:20 10:10 Story of Joan of Arc ; Sleepy Hollow (R) Digital 9:20 , 4:40 7: 10 9:30 TI1e Insider (R) Digiml ,· 
5:30 8:00 10:30 9:45 ; 
Pokemon (G) Digitlll 'n1e House on Hauntd Hill (R) Digital 3:50 6:20 8:45 10:00 4:20 6:50 
• Dugina (RJ Digital 4:45 7:35 I0:25 
~
---.. ,.,.,._,_ ....... -·-.•• ··-¥.. ..... ------· -.......,.. 
$1 00 All Showa Before 6 pm

. SCOTTSDALE 6 ONLY • Everyone• Everyday Scottsdale Mall • 299-6063 $1.50 All Evening Shows :16. Blue Streak (PG-13) or ..ove o le ame 4:50 8:00

4:40 7:35 9:50 

Runaway Bride (PG)Elmo in Grouchland (G) 4: 10 7: 10 \1:40 
4:00 lns1><-.:tor Gadget (PG) 
. Bowtinger (PG-13) 4:30 6:40 8:50 4:20 7:20 9:45 
Stir of Echoes (R) 
7:00 IO;()(J 

. Oetu-e/"/l(j Tk &:f~t Rzza,I @l©G)\l \Sul© ©. ©©fl! lJ[]]@~cfl~~g~  
12 Anytime Anytime you call between you call between 5:30 & 7:00, 10:30-12:59 9 the price of yourthe price of yourI 2 large 1 large 1 topping topping pizzas pizza is the time you call.is the time you call. * Plus tax* Plus tax  
r-------------,Lunch Special 1 1 I Small 1 Topping 1 ND store I 2 Cans of Coca-Cola product I Saint Mary's/ I $5 99 I ·L ______ .:,. ______ _, North Village Mall271-1:177 271-PAPA  



page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 23, 1999 
FOOTBALL 

Jefferson, defense look to improve against Stanford 
ception, at least two a game,"
By TIM CASEY 

Jefferson said after Monday's
Sports W rirer 

practice. "This past game I could have had two. It's always 
Clifford Jefferson mav have a my goal, no matter what. If I get broken right thumb and a beat. I'm always going to look to bruised knee, but his goals make that extra play and help haven't changed since before the team out." the Purdue game. The Irish need Jefferson's 
"I always look to get an inter-aspirations to become reality 

Andy Wisne celebrates a sack In the first quarter against BC. The defense will need to improve In order to beat a Rose Bowl-bound Stanford team Saturday. 
Rockne Memorial 631-6425 
this Saturday at Stanford. A vic­tory will ensure the Irish avoid­ance of their first seven-loss sea­son since 1963. But a loss against the Rose Bowl-bound Cardinal will leave Notre Dame on a downward spiral that could worsen as NCAA action against the program could occur in the offseason. 
To leave Palo Alto. Calif.. with a victory, the struggling sec­ondary must find a way to con­tain a pair of explosive Cardinal receivers, Troy Walters and DeRonnie Pitts. 
Though the Irish defensive backfield faced the likes of Vinny Sutherland and Chris Daniels at Purdue. Plaxico Burress and Gari Scott at Michigan State and Antonio Brvant and Latef Grim at Pittsburgh, no previous tan­dem compares to the Stanford duo. Th1>, combination of Walters and Pitts has 111 catches, 1.904 yards and 16 touchdowns this season. 
On Monday, instead of practic­ing in full pads, the Irish con­ducted a walk-through and watched game film of Stanford. By viewing video of the Cardinal. Jefferson believes he has a notion of Walters' tendencies. 
"He seems pretty good," Jefferson said. "He tries to trick you and lull you to sleep with the deep routes by starting out slow and then speeding up. I've got to be aware of that and just play a good game." 
On the season, the Irish defen­sive backfield yields an average of 241.5 yards per game through the air. while allowing 16 touchdown passes in 11 games. 
Jefferson, in particular, had a difficult time covering receivers from his cornerback position. And though opposing teams con­sistently tried to throw to Jefferson's side of the field, his inconsistency has been apparent in the past two losses. 
Jefferson's inability to cover can be traced to many factors. Injuries, lack of experience and an increase in playing time due to the departures of Brock Williams and Lee Lafayette and the injuries to Jason Beckstrom and Albert Poree have con­tributed to Jefferson's shortcom­ings. 
The first-year starter believes Notre Dame's switch to a press defense prior to the Tennessee game, where the cornerbacks play tighter coverage at the line of scrimmage, has also affected his play lately. 
"It's basically my footwork," Jefferson said, referring to his coverage problems. "My tenden­cy is to step forward when I press instead of softening out." 
But Jefferson, a sophomore, believes his team has stood behind him through the difficul­ties; he will respond to their words of wisdom. 
'Tm putting it all behind me and going into this game with a clear conscience," Jefferson said. "I've got to do better than what I've been doing. I'm going to work on my technique this week and come out and play a good game." 
And how will the rest of the Irish rnspond to the criticism from their fans that comes with their 5-6 record? 
"When everyone gets down on us, we're playing for our­selves," Jefferson said. "You can't let outside influences affect your game. no matter what. We feel we have to play for our pride. We're not going out with­out a win." 

"As You Wish" '-"'gr·""'0 
__,

IMPORTS _,,, 
Silver Rings & Toe Rings Sarongs from Bali Jewelry Tapestries Sweaters Accessories 
And much much more! 
Gautemala. Mexico. Bali. Thailand. India. Ecuador 
Incredible Prices!J Great Christmas GiftsH Clearance CornerH 
10¼ Discoi.its for St. Mary's Students with I.DJ! 
Procuds from soles_of Jewelry guarantee the loving hands of Guatemalan famthes 3 t11nes their average salary. as well as furias for their education. 
La Fortune -Room 108 
(near telephones) 
Nov. 29 -Dec. 4 
(Saturday') 10am-5pm 

Douglas. Rd. 631-4653 

Dec 7, 1999 Take an additional 20% offl 
All Merchandise 
Excluding GolfBalls 
Pro Shop Hours Monday -Friday 9-5 

Tuesday, November 23, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 

Big East 
continued from page 24 
the Irish ralli11d to pull the score to 11-X. Notre Dame was shut down l'or the rr.st of tlrn match as Gcorgfllown claimed the ganrn and match for the Big East title. 
"Tlwy played well. We got morn blocks against them in our last match," Irish captain Mary 1.nlfors said nf Notre Dame's conrnback f'iv11-gamn victory against (ieorgetown last Sunday. "We did not have a high level of' performance, and it is tough to win a big match when nverymrn is not playing very well." 
l.dfors, the Big East Player of the Yrntr, had a good game for the Irish, posting 15 kills, three blocks and six digs. 
Christi Girton had a good offensive matr,h, finishing with 7 kills, while Boylan ran the Notre Dame offense with 36 assists. 
The Hoyas were led by Yulia Vtyurina's 16 kills, while Big East tournament MVP Kaili Stevens contributed seven kills on 12 attempts. 
Prior to the finals on Sunday, Notre Dame defeated Connecticut in the semi-finals. The Irish beat the Huskies in four games, 15-12, 6-15, 15-9, and 16-14, with four players 11nishing with double-digits in kills to help them advance to the finals. 
Notre Dame plays another important match this weekend when they travel to Stockton, Calif., for the University of the Pacific's Community Bankers Classic. 
Notre Dame takes on Washington State Friday and faces the winner of the Pacific­Sacramento State match on Saturday. 
The Irish face a must-win sit­uation, where a victory against Washington State would clinch an at-large bid to the NCAA Tournament, while a loss would end the season. 
"We had our time to think about our loss," said Leffers. "Now we have to get serious for this match." 
The NCAA selection show is this Sunday, where the Irish will find out their seed if they defeat Washington State. 
"We are not concerned with where we are seeded in the tournament, but we just want to get in," Leffers said. 
The Irish have qualified for the tournament the last eight seasons. 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING 

Nixon sets meet record in 50 free 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
Saint Mary's Editor 
If the performance of the 
women's swimming and div­
ing team was any indication 
of how Notre Dame will per­
form under championship 
pressure, this squad is well 
prepared. 
Entering the Minnesota Invitational last weekend stacked against No. 16 Minnesota, No. 1 7 Tennessee and No. 24 Illinois, the Notre Dame women managed a fourth-place finish despite efforts by the top three to edge the competition by rest­ing for the meet. 
"It's hard to predict what you're going into at these meets," said head coach Bailey Weathers. "This limo, the teams were more shaved and rested than we anticipat­ed. Had we swam the tim1\s we swam this weekend last year, ,';Ve would have won this meet. 
Minnesota finished the meet in first place with 847 points, Wisconsin finished second with 695.50, and Illinois in third with 632. 
Regardless, several Irish swimmers had standout per­formances that edged top swimmers from the top three teams, proving that even unshaved and unrested, they were prepared for the meet. 
Junior Carrie Nixon led the meet for the Irish, chalking up a double win in the 50 and 100 meter freestyle. Nixon's win in the 50 freestyle Friday night earned her a "B" NCAA qualifying time of 23.04 sec­onds and eclipsed the 10-year meet record by five-hun­dredths of a second. 
Nixon continued her win­ning streak Sunday with a vic­tory in the 100 freestyle in 56.25, also a "B" qualifying time. Nixon finislrnd the 100 butterfly in serond place, after earning the top seed in Saturday's preliminaries and narrowly missing Elizabeth Burger's 1999 record tinrn of 55.52. 

Senior Alison Ncwoll also came in with a big win for tho Irish, finishing first in the 200 meter butterfly with a "B" qualifying time of 2 minutes, 
13. 90 seconds. Newell also narrowly missed her school's record in the event. 
"lt was the second fastest swim we've had in the history of the event," Weathers said. 
Rounding out tlw swimming performances, sophomore Kelly Becking finishnd third in Sunday's 200 backstrokn in 2:16.67, and won the 100 backstroke Saturday evening with a "B" qualifying limn of' 1:02.65. 
In preparation for the NCAA championships, finals each evening were held in meters rather than yards, because the 2000 NCAA champi­onships will be in meters. Regardless of the fourth-place finish. the Irish did have an advantage in the meet with their background training completed primarily in short course meters. 
"We're one of' the only teams in the country who train in short course meters," Weathers said. "The transi­tion [from yards to meters) didn't affect us that much. They weren't different races." 
The No. 22 Irish will sec Illinois again later in the sea­son for a dual meet, in which Weathers believes his swim­mers will have an edge. 
"Even shaved and tapered, our swimmers were well matched with Illinois swim­mers," he said. "This meet will definitely help us in our dual meet season ... we'rn well prepared." 
T 
Qu1c:K CAB 
233-6000 
r------------------, 
-ND to Michiana Regional : $1.00 OFF Airport : EACH TRIP 
I 
One Person $8 

: f!UICKCAB 
More than 1 , $5 each 

: 233-6000 
-ND to Entertainment Area 

L-----------------­
r------------------7
One Person $5 

More than 1 , $2 each $1.000FF -Waiting Time 10-15 Minutes EACH TRIP 
f!UICKCAB
HAVE A 
233-6000
HAPPY HOLIDAY 

L------------------~ 
S_ummer Engineering Program in London 
...... 
... 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, November 23, 1999 

HOCKEY 

leers head to New England for break 
By BILL HART Associate Sports Editor 
While most college students will return home and savor some home-cooked meals this weekend, the Irish hockey team plans a road trip to New England, with the opportunity to feast on some ranked oppo­nents. 
Notre Dame will compete in the Diamond Anniversary Conference Classic in Durham. N.H., along with Nor.th Dakota, New Hampshire and Vermont.

-.. 
While the Irish will not face off with the top-ranked 
Fighting 

'This really sets the 
victory.
Sioux. match­

tables for us. It's a Notre Dame is
ups with the Wildcats and chance to compete on a winning streak of its own,
t h e against top 1 o 
Catamounts following a two­
opponents." game sweep ­
are on tap for 

their first of the
Saturday and 

season -over
Sunday, Nathan Borega
respectively. conference rival
Irish defenseman
N e w Hampshire is currently ranked ninth in the U.S. College llockey Online poll, sporting a 8-2-1 record and a 5-0-1 record in the Hockey East conference. The Wildcats' two losses this sea­son have come at the hands of No. 8 Rensselear and Yale by scores of 6-0 and 5-1. respec­tively. 
On a recent road trip to Massachusetts, New Hampshire tied Boston University 5-5 and defeated seventh-ranked Roston College 2-1 in overtime. 
In. the New Hampshire­Boston College game, the Eagles struck first early into the second period minutes before Wildcats' Jim Abbott got his third goal of the sea­son from the blocker side. The Wildcats only needed 36 sec­onds of overtime to score again. when David Busch took a shot off a pass from Abbott into the left side of the goal. 
"We know that for the last four or five years, they've been a top 10 team," senior defenseman Nathan Borega said about the Wildcats. "They're a really solid, really fast team." 
The Catamounts, based in the ECAC conference. are cur­rently 3-5-1 after struggling through a difficult opening non-conference schedule. 
After defeating Princeton 6­4, Vermont played Dartmouth to a 1-1 tie this weekend. In that game. Catamount sopho-

Sweet Caroline, You're 21 ! 
So celebrate and have some fun. 
What you had to do to get a brew 
Is now no longer a factor 

With a real card there should be no stew 
And now you won't have to be an actor Happy Birthday and Love Your Family 
more Bryson Busniuk tallied a goal with less than three min­utes remaining to break up the potential Dartmouth shutout and send the game to overtime. 
The Big Green outshot Vermont, 3-0, in overtime, but couldn't find the net as the game ended in a deadlock. 
"We haven't played them much in the past," Borega said about Vermont. "But four or five years ago, they were another top 10 team. They've also got a lot of speed." 
New Hampshire and Vermont played one another to open the regular season for both teams. The Wildcats took an early 2-0 lead en route to a 7-4 
Alaska-
Fairbanks. 
In the first game of that series, freshman goaltender Tony Zasowski tal­lied the first shutout of his collegiate career in a 1-0 vic­tory. The only Irish goal of the game was scored by senior left wing Andy Jurkowski off a pass from sophomore Brett Henning, six minutes, 19 sec­onds into the game. 
In the second game, the Irish came back from a 2-0 deficit in the third period with three goals over 12 minutes, topped by a score by fresh­man defenseman Evan Nielsen with 3:53 remaining in the game. 
With last weekend off to recoup from a strenuous early season schedule, the Irish are prepared to take the ice again. 
The Diamond Classic this weekend provides a stepping stone to even greater chal­lenges, such as a two-game set against CCHA leader and third-ranked Michigan State on Dec. 3 and 4. 
"This really sets the tables for us," Borega said about the weekend. "It's a chance to compete against top 10 oppo­nents. Michigan State's a big rivalry for us, but this week­end will really give us a chance to prepare." 
The _match-up between the Irish and the Wildcats will begin at 5 p.m. Saturday. with the game between Notre Dame and Vermont set to begin at 2 p.m. Sunday. 
NIT 
continued from page 24 
Notre Dame returned home Thursday to knock off Siena 107-96 behind a 31-point effort from Murphy. Graves and freshman Matt Carroll chipped in with 16. 
In regular season action, Murphy scored a career-high 35 points to lift Notre Dame to a 73-60 win over St. Francis. 
The trip to New York will be a homecoming for first year head coach Matt Doherty, who grew up on Long Island and has family in the area. Doh£'rty has also had success in the Garden. leading Kansas to Preseason NIT titles in 1993 and '97 as an assistant coach with the Jayhawaks. 
The Wildcats have also enjoyed success in the NIT. They won the 1990 and '95 tournaments and have their eyes set on a third consecutive title. 
Arizona advanced to the semifinals with a 88-69 win over Kansas State and a 84-60 victory over New Mexico State. All five starters are averaging double digits in scoring. Forward Michael Wright leads the team in scoring (17.5 points per game) and rebound­ing (11.5 boards per game). Arizona starts two freshman guards in Gilbert Arenas (12 points per game) and Jason Gardner (13 points per game, 6 assists per game). 
This will be the fourth time the two teams have met. The Wildcats lead the series 2-1. 
Wednesday's game will be the second time Arizona and Notre Dame have met in a Preseason NIT semifinal game. The first came in 1990, when Arizona won 91-61. 
Tip off is scheduled for 6 
p.m. Wednesday, and the game will be televised on ESPN. 
Notre Dame plays Friday in either the consolation game or 

A Futon Built Just the Way You Want It! 
500+ futon cover fabrics 20+ futon frame styles 8 grades of futon mattresses 
Frts Any Space and Every Budget! 
COVER ME with a NEW FUTON COVER! Prices start -at just $29! 
Sophomore David Graves will look to keep up the winning ways of the Notre Dame men's basketball team Wednesday. 
the final of the NIT against first tim.e they'd reached the Kentucky or Maryland. The century mark since 1992. regular season schedule . The Irish received 18 votes resumes on Nov. 30 at in the most recent ESPN/USA Indiana. Today college basketball poll, 
which ranks them 31st in the 
nation.
Notes: 
. This is the third time the. Notre Dame is off to a 3-0 Irish have participated in thestart for the first time since Preseason NIT. Notre Dame1988. The 1988-89 season was advanced to the semifinals in also the last time the Irish 1990.

earned an NCAA Tournament . Murphy was named the firstberth. 
Big East player of the week. The Irish scored 107 points this season for his role in in their victory over Siena in Notre Dame's first three victo­the second round. It was the 

ries. 

FUTON FACTORY 
SOFA BY DAY BED BY NIGHT 
5632 Grape Road, Mishawaka 219-273-2660 

Tuesday, November 23, 1999 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
TOM KEELEY 


A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM
FOURTH AND INCHES 
~\!OW EVE~ t"OSS .$"{f:.j\\C-,"'' \l'J ff:Ef'ARl\1lOIJ 
SE.\16 »t'<-1"wo \\O\JRS 
E.S,tON ~ "\"\\\~ i rOR '"ffl\$ E-)1-.~tl\ \\,l<a, <.I\W !.TOP 
BILL AMEND

Fox TROT 
•.• NoT lb MENTtoN CO<JU) l'oO

IT WOULD R£ALLT f'1i\KE
,_ TrMY 81T? A FRAcTtot4
Mt>T, WOULD IT KILL YoU 
THE REST of Pv1' MoRE

HER HAPPY.
OF A BtT ? A MtCRo"oPtt
To LET YoVR Mo'THEF 1-!E\..P 
OS. WATER 1114
BtT? \ 

I
10\.I A LITTLE SIT?
t:l: 
J 


., . 
f 
J 
I 't: 

A new defense against ND-haters. 
I 
~ 
0 
beam.1@nd.edu 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1999 

ACROSS 32 Office 66 Fuse units 1 Idaho, e.g. transmittal 67 "Trinity" author 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS moving; this should be an active day DAY: Michael Brainard, Steve Lan­for you and your lover. Don't let the 
36 Iran's _ Shah 68 Prolific writer on 6 Calcutta dress 
desberg, Boris Karloff, Maxwell fast pace cause friction or stress.
Pahlavi calculus10 Alain's girlfriend 
Caulfield You're supposed to be enjoying one
39 Lively French 69 Swim contest 
Happy Birthday: You can reach another regardless of what you havedance 70 Word with 
14 Accustom 
an influential position if you let your todo.00
15 Caddie's 40 Long-lost friend, contact or zoom 
thoughts be known this year. Follow­LIBRA (Sept. 23-0cl 22): Watch
offering 
ing your creative ideas through to your dietary habits. It may be the fes.
to an egotist? 71 With subterfuge 16 Bad luck cause 
completion will bring rewarding tive season, but that doesn't mean
43 Carpet fiber 

results. You will attract the support you should abuse yourself. Too
17 Single year's 44 Altimeter units DOWN
record 
of those in high positions, allowing much of anything may lead to stom­45 Job for a body 1 Princess' you even more freedom to do your ach problems. Be good to yourself.
18 Cuts, as 
shop headgear own thing. Your numbers: 7, 15, 20, 00000
branches 2 Ma!:jnani and 26, 38,47 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You46 More than 
19 Lotlon ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your should be taking care of the needs 
dislike Chnstie
ingredient 3 Part of a military intentions will turn toward money­of children today. Your input in 20 Be mildly 
48···---··· making ventures. Your ability to deal their plans or projects will be helpful.
uniform
50 Ocean prowlers with business associates enhances Be creative and do a little home
surprising, to an 
4 Make blank your reputation. Take care of the decorating. 000
egotist? 53 Pursued 
5 Give in problems older members of your SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 
23 Trip up a 58 With surprising 
family face. 0000 21): Past partners may contact you.
6 Round building 
mountain speed, to an TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You should be ridding yourself of 
7 It may be picked 
24 Wine city near egotist? You'll have an attraction to someone people and thinJ?s that have caused 
up in a tobacco 
you just met. Don't move too quick­problems. Don t let someone fool shop ly: One-sided infatuations are evi­you into thinking that he or she has 
Turin 63 Clinic 
25_Mahal 64 Kismet 
8 Items in bell dent. Travel and physical self­changed. 000 
27 Still In the 65 Longest river in towers improvement projects should be on CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): womb Europe your mind. 000 Someone you trust may not be hon­
9 Undisturbed 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You est with you. Handle your personal
10 Open a bit 
will be confused about the intentions situation with kid gloves. Relatives ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 Actor O'Shea of a colleague. Don't trust others may be unreasonable. Don't get rail­12 •-.-pronounce with secret information that could be roaded into doing things you don't 
Puzzle by Ed Early
V I B E S L A used against you. 000 want to do. 000 
E R A S E ~O+.N,.,+,::+= i.;,;.+;;.+:+:;;..f 13 Divorcees 35 Eye up and . 55 Rand of fan 59 Be specific CANCER (June 21-July 22): Trav­AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): down dancing fame about el for pleasure will be conducive to Your competitive nature at work will
......+'=+G~A~ 21 Skittish move 
new love connections. You will learn be wasted if you step on the wrong
37 Playwright Akins 
R 22 Evening fare at 56 Broadway 60 Key in a lot if you travel to different coun­person's toes. Opportunities for some churches 38 God of war conductor tries and experience the cultures of romance will surface, but be careful Lehman 61 Virus's target the people you meet. 000 that the one you're interested in isn"t
E 26 Newsman 41 1946 Literature 
-=+-,...+--+..,... •r=-t=t--:N:-1 Greenfield LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may already attached. 00000
Nobelis1 57 "Dear" book 
62 Loch of be feeling overworked and tired due PISCES (Feb. 19-Man:h 20): You H -::e-+-=+=~ T 28 Wren or hen 42 Nasdaq offering 58 Shi'ite leader Scotland to the amount you've taken on. Get may be busy, but you mustn't neglect e 29 Double curve some help so you can get bade on your mate. Don't overspend on
47 Bath water 
s -...+-+--+---1 30 Havoc track. It's time to enjoy yourself. things that aren't necessary. Get your 
quantity

31 Habitat for Answers to any three clues in this puzzle Spend the day pampering yourself. partner to help you make decora­28-Down 49 Elbows are available by touch-tone phone: 0000 tions. Doing things together will help 51 Trumpet VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Get the relationship. 00
B .;.;.,.._d,-:..+,;...i 32 Motel employee 1-900-42()-5656 (95¢ per minute).
emanation
R I L E O -,+.....+-:,+,-,~ 33 Start of North Annual subscriptions are available for the Birthday Baby: You have a strong presence that will bring you all sorts of A D I N ""'o+:-:M+.-+=-1 E Carolina's motto 52 1960's protest best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 attention throughout your life. Your ability to get others to help you will lead GAPE MA E 34Handholder 54 Run of years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. to the success you desire. Your confident manner will result in leadership 
positions and strong support. (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
C 1999 Univenal Press Syndicate

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
0 '£>rzek thrz 'R.{ze • 



Your -workout~ will hfllp d{lek thfl 'R.~'R.C' f'itnrz1~ 'R.oom & mak{l you flligibl~:for ~~m{l grrzat Chri$1m~~ .g~ft$I~-,~~~~;---·, ~ 
.. 
•Nov. 29 -®\le. 12 •'v.rawing ®fZC, .1~~ "...3·\,y~~tl{@'afs<~~g'.q~;~~il.i-g·h.1~l~;lh·e:·Toom 
•~ign in at thi 'R~'RC fitn{Z.33 room disk •Your nami i~ intinzd into a drawing 12v12ry tim12 you work out ,.7 ·· 1ZV12ry tim12 you workout (t/day/max) 
For More ll)fo':' Contact:RecSports -1-6100 
www.nd.edu/~recsport 


Battling to break .500 
End of an era 
The football team has one 

Sorin 's interhall football game left and a final 
squad takes second in chance for the seniors to 

tourney, making Father close out their Notre Dame 
Steve Newton ·s last year careers with a victory. 
as rector a proud one. 
page 20

PORTS 
page 18 

O
THE page 24 BSERVER Tuesday, November 23, 1999 
NCAA CROSS COUNTRY CHAMPIONSHIPS 
Notre Dame returns as running powerhouse 
Shay leads men as All-American, women finish 29th as Klemmer falters 
... 
decade. 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN "Our first goal was to be in 

Assisram Spans Editor 

the top 10 and we did that," coach Joe Piane said. "To a 
The Irish men's cross coun­man, I think everyone will tell try team reestablished itself you he can run a little bit bet­as one of the top college pro­ter. I don't think anybody grams in the country leaves here without saying Monday, plar,ing eighth at the they could have done better." NCM Championships behind Shay garnered 12th place junior Ryan Shay's All­overall in a 1OK time of American finish. 30:46.10. The finish earned 
"This puts us back where him the first All-American we belong-honors by a in the top 10 Notre Dame in the nation NCAA Cross Country men's cross like the past country
Championships
five, 10, runner 
at Bloomington, Ind.
even 20 since Derek years. Notre Dame Men: 8th Seiling and J a s o n
sophomore Notre Dame Women: 29th
L u k e Watson said. "It reestab­lishes us after last year not 
.being in the top 10 and not even making it to nationals." 
The women, meanwhile, were not especially pleased with their 29th-place finish, but they were excited just to be at the national meet. 
"We really didn't put very much pressure on ourselves," freshman Jennifer Handley said. "No one expected us to do well, so we wanted to show the other teams that we belonged there." 
Seventh in the standings 
before the meet, the Irish men were aiming for a top 10 performance. They did just that by capturing eighth, their sixth top 10 finish of the 

Rexing in 
1996. 
"He cer­tainly made All-American," Piane said, "and he put him­self in a position to have a great race." 
Shay was hoping to finish among the top five to 10 run­ners at the meet and was near the front of the pack early on, but he struggled during the middle of the race because of a side cramp. 
"I don't think it was one of my better performances," Shay said. "It all came down to how I was physically feel­ing on that particular day, but not everything fit togeth­er the way I wanted it to. Mentally, I felt like I could run with them the whole way, but physically it didn't hap­pen." 
"lie hung in there with the leaders through 8K even," Watson said. "I thought he ran a real gutsy race." 
Watson was second for the Irish and 58th overall in 31:35.30, followed by senior Ryan Maxwell in 100th place in the race. 
"To come out of it in eighth was pretty good for us, because weird things happen at nationals," Watson said. "Altogether we ran pretty well, and that was good enough for us to get eighth." 
Rounding out the Irish fin­ishers were sophomore Marc Striowski, and seniors Sean McManus, John Dudley and Mike Griewe. 
"I think those guys have to be proud of the fact that at the beginning of the year they didn't have any votes to be in the top 25," Piane sa,id, "And they ended up eighth in the countTy. Actually, the future's pretty bright with three of our top four guys back." 
The men's squad, unranked at the beginning of the 1999 campaign, improved steadily throughout the season. 
"We're not really satisfied with our performance, but we did reach our goal of being in the top 10," Shay said. "It's not that we performed that bad, but we felt that if we would have run to our capa­bilities, we could have been 
see NCAA/page 19 

VOLLEYBALL BIG EAST CHAMPIONSHIPS 
Netters snag second in Big East 
By MATT OLIVA Spores Writer 
The Notre Dame volleyball team came up one match short in its attempt to win the Big East tournament for the fifth straight time. 
Tn a rematch of last year's finals, Georgetown knocked off Notre Dame (19-7) in three games, 15-11, 15-10 and 15-8, to win their first Big East cham­pionship. With the conference championship already in hand, the Hoyas (27-4) clinched an automatic berth in the NCAA tournament. 

The Hoyas jumped out to a fast 6-0 lead in Game 1. Notre Dame was able to fight back and tie the game at 9 on an ace by Denise 
Boylan. The Irish then took the lead after a Georgetown hitting error. 
The Irish could not 

stop the Girton Hoyas, how­ever, as Kiran Gill served five straight points for Georgetown, who eventually took Game 1, 15­11. 
In the second game the Irish never held the lead. They fell behind 6-1 early and only came as close as 10-8. 
Notre Dame managed only two more points to drop the sec­ond game and give Georgetown the opportunity for a finals sweep and its first victory over Notre Dame in nine tries. 
Once again, in the third match, the Irish fell behind quickly and were unable to recover. The closest they came was a three-point deficit, when 
see BIG EAST/page 21 



Seniors Patty Rice (top left) and Mike Griewe (top right) complet­ed their cross country careers at nationals Monday. Junior Ryan Shay (bottom) became the first Notre Dame men's cross country All-American in three years with a 12th-place finish. 
MEN'S BASKETBALL NIT 
Irish face talented, young Wildcats in NIT 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Sports Editor 

Notre Dame traveled to New York Monday afternoon to prepare for its semifinal showdown with No. 9 Arizona in the Preseason NIT at Madison Square Garden. 
The Irish will look for their third win of the season over teams that participated in the NCM Tournament last year. Notre Damp is off to a sur­prising 3-0 start after record­ing wins over Ohio State, Siena and St. Francis (Pa.). 
Sophomore David Graves led the Irish to a 59-57 victo­ry over the Buckeyes last Tuesday in the first round with a game-winning shot at the buzzer. Graves finished with 18 points and eight rebounds, while follow sopho­more Troy Murphy had 21 points and 12 boards. 
see NIT/page 22 

Preseason NIT Semifinals at New Hampshire NCAA Quarterfinals vs. Arizona -~ Saturday, 5 p.m. vs. Nebraska
SPORTS 

Wednesday, TBA Sunday, TBA 
ATA • 
* 
at Stanford Basketballat Illinois Saturday, 8 p.m. vs. Hope College 
e

Saturday, 3 p.m. 
GLANCE 
Nov. 30, 7:30 p.m. 


NSIDER 
OfHE Tuesday, November 23, 1999 BSERVER Notre Dame at Nebraska 

JOHN DAILY/The Observer 

Senior goalkeeper LaKeysla Beene has battled through a season of ups and downs to lead the lrlsh Into the quarterfinals of the NCAA tournament. Standing Just three wins away from a national championship, Beene hopes to tum her lndlvldual honors Into a team title. For more of the last llne of the lrlsh defense, see page 4 . 
INSIDE 
• ,

home: .1 z-r home: 12-0
game preview..............page 2 
vs. 

away: 9-2 away: 10-1-1
tournament bracket ......page 2 season recap................page 4 
m9u
.........,,. ..,_,....... 

page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Tuesday, November 23, 1999 


"I am so excited about it. I think we played really well [Friday! and I think we are going to do well in the quarterfinals. " 
"Last year we came up a bit short and we weren't happy about that. This year I think we are going to get there." 


definitely respect Nebraska and know that it's not going to be a 
Meotls Erikson cake walk. " forward 
"It is always harderfor us to play away but I don't think that will be a problem because we have a week to get ourselves ready. " 

Notre Dame Schedule 

Sept. 3 Sept. 5  NORTH. CAROLINA . DUKE  L3·2 W4-1  
Sept. 12  at St. John's  W4-0  
Sept. 15  BUTl.iR  WS-0  
Sept. 17  vs. Texas A&M  W1•0  
Sept. 19  vs. Southern Methodist  l 1·0  
Sept. 24  at Seton Hall  W4-2  
Sop!. 26  at Rulgflrs  W4·1  
Oct. 1  GEORGETOWN  W1U..O  

gallle hype 
"There is certainly a desire on this team to get back to the final four. It should be a great game. "



improvement, according to Makinen. 
"We've been talking a lot about [defense] in practice and trying to improve," she said. "We have just been talking better [on the field]. It's been kind of a search for the right positions and now we are finally getting comfort­able." 
Waldrum expects the Cornhuskers to attack the Irish and not hang back like other teams who have been intimidated by the Irish talent. While other teams have packed the box and tried to counter attack, Waldrum believes that the Huskers will come after the Irish. 
"I think Nebraska is very similar to us in that they have a lot of offensive weapons," Waldrum said. "I think the game will be more wide open. It will come down to which set of backs can do a better job. They pretty much match up man-to-man and I like that because I think we have some good one-on-one players. We'll have to see how they match up with us." 

One player on the Irish roster is espe­cially looking forward to the game at Nebraska. Junior Kelly Lindsey hails from Omaha and was heavily recruited by the Huskers. 
"I am definitely excited," Lindsey said. "I would love to go back there and play in front of a crowd that has never seen me play before in college. So I think it will be a lot of fun." 
The Irish will find their trip to Lincoln a lot more fun if it is just a pit stop on the way to San Jose. 
"For my class, it seems like we have had a curse ­eliminated in the finals then final four then quarterfi­nals. We just want to break that curse this year. " 
LaKeysia Beene goalkeeper 
Oct. 3 VILLANOVA 
Oct. 5 MICHIGAN 
Oct. 8 WEST VtRGINIA Oct.10 at Pi._b~rgh · ·. Oct. 17 at Santa Clara Oct. 22 CONNECTICUT · Oct. 24 · MIAMI Oct. 27 at Wisconsin Oct. 31 al Indiana 
BIG EAST CHAMPIONSHIPS Nov.2 MIAMI Nov. 5 vs. Seton Hall Nov. 7 vs.. ConnectlCPt 
NCAA CHAMPIONSHIPS 

W4•0 
W4-1 
W5·1 W5•0. L4-2 W2•1 W7-1 W9·2 W4•1 
WS-0 
W5-D W4-2 
W5-1 
W1-0 
Way to San Jose runs through Lincoln 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Associate Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team leaves the friendly confines of Alumni Field Sunday for the hostile environment of Nebraska's Abbott Sports Complex -a place where the Huskers haven't lost all season. 
The Irish know that the trip into Husker country will be a difficult road block on the way to San Jose, Calif., and the 1 999 final four. 
"We'd rather be at home so that we can stay in our routine and have our home fans but going on the road is just one thing you have to deal with," Irish head coach Randy Waldrum said. "And if we ,vant to go to the final four, we have to go through Lincoln." 
The Cornhuskers wi.Jl have extra incentive when the Trish come to town as Notre Dame has eliminated Nebraska from the tournament the past two seasons with both games being played at Alumni Field. 
"It's a big rivalry," junior forward Meotis Erikson said, "It's not just the fact that we have beaten them the past two years but also a final four bid is on the line. They arc going 1.o be out for us but we have incentive too." 
The Irish incentive comes from the fact that they haven't advanced to the final four since 1997. Thanks to a Joss to Portland in last year's quarterfinals, the Irish missed the final four for the first time since 1993. 
If the Irish want to spend the first weekend in December in sunny California, they must shut down the Huskers leading scorer, Meghan Anderson. Anderson scored 21 goals from her midfield position. 
The job of stopping Anderson will fall mainly on the midfield according to Waldrum. 
"She is kind of coming forward out of the midfield for them," he said. "We're not going to do anything special or change anything the way we play. We're going to keep our eye on her as best we can but I think with the three we put in midfield we'll match up really well with her." 
The Irish midfield played one of its best defensive games of the year against Stanford. After juggling the lineup all season, Waldrum has finally settled on rotating junior Anne Makinen, sophomore Mia Sarkesian and freshmen Nancy Mikacenic and Ashley Dryer. 
The more stable lineup led to the 
. Location: Lincoln, Neb.

fast facts 
. 
Colors: red and white 

. 
Nickname: Cornhuskers 



ABOUT . Conference: Big 12 . Founded: 1869
NEBRASKA 

. 
This is the first year the Cornhuskers have hosted a NCAA quarterfinals matchup. 

. 
The Irish have eliminated the Cornhuskers from the past two NCAA championships. 

. 
The Cornhuskers are undefeated at home. 


Nebraska Schedule 
Aug.27 TEXAS TECH Wl•O Aug. 29 BAYLOR W3-0 Sept. 3 ORAL ROBERTS W6·0 Sept. 5 at Kentucky W5-1 Sept. 10 vs. Connecticut W4-1 Sept. 12 vs. Portland W3•2 Sept.17 at Stanford W2•1 Sept. 19 vs. Santa Clara L 2-1 Sept. 24 TULSA W9•0 Sept. 26 at Clemson TO·O Oct. 1 at Texas A&M W1-0 Oct. 3 at Texas W3•0 Oct. 8 DENVER W2•0 Del. 10 at Colorado W9-0 Oct. 15 KANSAS WS-1 Oct.17 MISSOURI W5·1 Oct. 22 at Oklahoma W3-1 Oct. 24 at Oklahoma Stale W10·0 Oct. 29 IOWA STATE W7-0 
BIG 12 TOURNAMENT Nov. 3 vs. Texas Teth W10·1 Nov. 4 vs Baylor W7-1 Nov.6 vs Missouri W2-1 
NCAA CHAMPIONSHIPS Nov.14 MINNESOTA WS-0 Nov. 21 TEXASAllrM W1-0 Nov. 28 NOTRE DAME 
Tuesday, November 23, 1999 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Waldrum excels in first year under the Dome 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Associate Sports Fdiror 
Wilh Chris Pntrucf'lli's resig­nation as hnad coach last win­ter, qunstions arose as to wlwtlwr tlrn Irish would be able to achi1we the same lev­els of success the Irish enjoyed from 1990 to 1998. 
His replarnmrrnf., Randy Waldrum, has quickly answered those questions with a n\s<rnnding yes and has led the Irish back to a 20-3 record and a borth in tho NCAA quar­te rfi nals -where the Irish lost last year to Portland, 2-1. For guiding the Irish to an 8-0 rncord in the Big East and winning tlrnir fifth straight conference championship, Waldrum was named Big East c<1ach of the year. 
The transition from one head coach to another has been practically seamless for the Irish this year thanks to Waldrum 's easy-going atti­tude. 
"Things went pretty smooth­ly," senior goalkeeper l.aKcysia Be<lne said about the transition to Waldrum 's coaching style. "Ile is a very easy person to get along with. I think we all didn't have any preconc<lived notions about him. We all just judged him by what we saw of him in the spring and everyone took to him pretty quickly." 
Waldrum gives crndil for the smooth transition to the play­11rs who adapted to his style of coaching and did not question adjustments he made lo for­mations and strategies. While Waldrum said he wanted to keep tho system as close as possible to Pctrucelli's system, hB tweaked the lineup to get morn production f'rom the tal­"When we started the the country," Waldrurn said. Michael Wadsworth. administration and the sup­ent. The most noticeable search we called the people "I think there are a lot of "If you look at people who port from the school has been change Waldrum implemented that we regarded as the best other good jobs but here and come into coaching roles and tremendous both in funding involved moving from four coaches in the business lto ask Carolina are by far the top the vital importance of and in overall support," midlieldors and three backs to for recommendations] and his two jobs in the country. Notre recruiting, finding people who Waldrum said. "I think they've three midfielders and four name always seemed to come Dame has such a great history embrace Notre Dame's values truly made a commitment to backs. The players are very up," associate athletic director of the soccer and the history isn't automatic," Wadsworth women's athletics and our rnceptivo to his ideas, accord­Missy Conboy said. "In his of the institution itself. I was said. "That is one of the most program. That's what you ing to Waldrum. interviewing process he certainly very excited when I critical questions you face would expect it to be if you 
"We've changed a few things impressed us with his prepa­got the phone call asking if I when you look at candidates. want to be a national pro­in our formation but we have ration. He knew everything would be interested in coming "They must understand gram." trind not to make huge about our team in advance. in and interviewing." what Notre Dame is all Waldrum has maintained changes lo the team," he said. He had done his homework Waldrum came to Notre about," he continued. "And the high level of performance "It's such a veteran team this and his research ... of all the Dame from Baylor where he thus will make better judge­Irish fans have come to expect year that I don't think it would candidates that we talked to, started the women's soccer ments in terms of bringing in and may take Notre Dame to .. havn been a wise thing to do. he was someone who had his program in 1996 and guided it players that will be good fits new levels of excellence with We've changed things here heart set on coming to Notre to a Big 12 Championship in at Notre Dame." a national championship -a and there but we haven't Dame and knew our program 1998 -the first for Baylor in While Waldrum's personali­feat the Irish have not made huge changes with posi­inside and out." any sport. Baylor's religious ty and value system fit what achieved since 1995. lions or formations. We've It is not surprising that foundation and value system the University was looking for "In making that adjustment only made a few adjust­Waldrum had his heart set on gave Waldrum the edge over in a head coach, the support you can sometimes see a ments." coming to a program for a job other coaches considered for and funding that the adminis­falling off in performance," 
Waldrum, who came highly that he calls "one of the top the job because he had an tration gives Notre Dame's Wadsworth said. "I think it is rncommended by his peers, two coaching positions in the understanding of the higher women's soccer was exactly a credit to the team members 
.... 
not only found a quick rapport country." standards to which Notre what Waldrum was looking as well as to Handy that they with his players but also with "Ilere and Carolina are Dame holds its athletes, for. have been able to keep up that Irish administrators. probably the top soccer jobs in according to athletic director "The support from the high level or performance." 
Experienced freshmen add depth to Irish roster 
freshmen who have had big starting four. Lovclaco has come presently surprised when it is." all quality of the team has been By MIKE CONNOLLY impacts on the Irish roster this off the bench to give the Irish The freshmen met before on raised because you have a new Associate Sporrs Editor year. In the postseason, valuable relief and scored three national teams and knew that five or six players that add 
Pruzinsky, midfielders Nancy goals in the ilig East they had the talent to make a another dimension to your 
Four months ago Vanessa Mikacenic Championships. big impact on this season, said team." Pruzinskv was a freshman mak­and Ashley 
The important role that the Lovelace. Waldrum said that the biggest ing her tirst start in an exhibi­Dryer and Class of 2003 is playing in the "I had a lot of expectations," problem with last year's team tion ganrn against the Stanford forward Ali postseason is not a complete she said. "I knew all the in com -tha.t lost in the quarterlinals was Cardinal. Lovelace surprise, said Waldrum. ing freshmen from playing with a lack of depth and !lexibility in 
Four days ago, Pruzinsky played big "That's probably something them on the national teams and the lineup. ­headed a ball off the back line roles in the you can never know but we felt I knew they were all very good With four freshmen rotating in tlw 15th minute to preserve I r i s h like the freshman class would so Jexpected a lot from us." through the lineup, that is not a the Irish shutout against the advancing be good for us," Waldrum said. The freshman class brings problem this year. Stanford Cardinal in the third to the quar-"Having Vanessa earn the rook­much-needed depth and speed "They just didn't have enough round of the NCAA tournament. terfinals. Pruzlnsky ie of the year and as much as to the Trish roster. depth here last year," he said. 
"She's been good for us all Pruzin-Nancy has played for us and "I think the biggest thing is "A lot of times last year when year," head coach Handy sky, the Big East Rookie of the Ashley Dryer and the way Ali not only the ability but ... things went wrong they didn't Waldrum said. "It was good to Week, has started every post­Lovelaco has come on for us. T depth," Waldrum said. "Some of have the players to change it see her come up big in a big season game while Mikacenic think the freshmen have done a them are starting and they are but this year we have been able game as a just a freshman." and Dryer have appeared in great job for us. You hope that pushing the older players to to make some changes and the 
Pruzinsky is one of just four every postseason game -each that is the case and then you arc regain their positions. -The over-freshmen have added to that." 

page 4 
... 
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
Tuesday, November 23, 1999 


By MIKE CONNOLLY Associate Sports Editor 
In the Sept. 4 game against North Carolina, LaKeysia Beene set a new career high with 15 saves -including several spec­tacular saves -only to watch a shot in the last minutes take an irregular bounce past her into the net. The goal tied the game at 2 and the Tar Heels won 3-2 on over time. 
On Friday, Beene made four saves and a few spectacular saves only to just miss making a save on a penalty kick in the closing minutes against Stanford. The ball, however, ric­ocheted off both posts and skid­ded away from the net as the Irish maintained their 1-0 lead. 
Such is the life of a goalkeep­er. 
At a position where luck plays nearly as great a factor as skill, Beene has excelled as the start­ing goalkeeper for the Irish. Beene is just as mentally strong as she is physically gifted. She is able to put both good saves and bad misses behind her to con­centrate on the next play. 
"Your key focus is not to let anyone in, but if you do, you have to reset and focus," she said. "Your new focus has to be to not let anymore in and help your team out that way." 
At times. Beene has not gotten much help from her team. 
"I feel bad for her because 

we've let her down rather more 
than she's let us down," head
-
coach Randy Waldrum said. "I think she has been very solid for us this year and has been as consistent as she can be based on what we've done for her. The goals she's given up have been goals where we've have given her a chance to make the saves. 
"I feel bad for her because I think statistically she can be so much better than she has been this year," he added about Beene's goals against average which has risen from .48 goals per game to 1.03 goals per game in 1999. "I don't think there is a doubt that she is one of the best goalkeepers in the country. I just don't think we've done our part this year." 
At times the Irish defense has been solid and held opposing offenses far from the Irish net, allowing just one or two shots per game. With such little action, one might think that Beene might become bored hanging back all alone. 
"I have a great time because I love watching my teammates play and seeing what they can do,» Beene said about the long lulls in the action she sometimes experiences. "I don't think I could ever get bored." 
At other times. the defense breaks down and Beene is left all alone with an opponent breaking in all alone. It is these moments when the line between skill and luck becomes blurred. It is also the times when Beene shows why she was named an All-American in 1997 and Big East goalkeeper of the year in 1997 and 1998. 
This year against Texas A&M, Beene came out of the box and stole the ball off the foot of a Aggie streaking toward the goal to preserve a 1-0 shutout win. 
The Irish defense has greater confidence with Beene behind it, Waldrum said. 
"I think having her back there with that kind of experience and playing background makes us all feel so much more comfortable," Waldrum said. 
Beene arrived at Notre Dame as a two-time Parade high school All-American and a veter­an of several national teams. At most schools, Beene would have automatically become the starter. Except at Notre Dame she was stuck behind Jen Renola -a four-year starter who led Notre Dame to the national championship the previous year. 
After being in the spotlight in high school. playing the role of backup was difficult but Beene said it helped her improve as a goalkeeper. 
"It was pretty tough sitting there but at the same time I learned a lot from Renola. She was a great goalkeeper," Beene said. "She was so smart and so calm in thP goal. She just exudPs confidence and the team played with more confidence because she was always there when they needed her." 
Beene used the lessons she learned from Renola to become a leader on the team. She is one of three captains on this year's team and plays a key role in organizing the defense. 
"She is very mobile back there trying to organize the defense," Waldrum said. "When teams start to attack, she is very good about organizing and getting everyone matched up and in the areas where they need to be. By her mobile nature and the way she plays adds some leadership. Sometimes you can lead by example and that's what she does a lot." 
Beene also made an impres­sion on her teammates. Sophomore goalkeeper Liz Wagner said that training with Beene improved her play. 
"Watching her has helped me with my techniques," Wagner said. "She is very encouraging to me in my play. Just training with her keeps the training intense and pushes me to great heights." 
Beene's play has received national attention as well. She was nominated for the Herman and the Missouri Athletic Club player of the year awards. Beene, however, is more con­cerned with winning a national championship than individual honors. 
"Honestly, I really don't care as long as we keep winning," she said. "I would love to have those honors bul right now I am more focused on a national championship." 
Beene is not a stranger to national championships. 
Although the Irish have yet to win a national championship in her four years under the Dome, Beene won three national cham-

Beene 
position: goalkeeper 
year: senior 
awards: three time All-Big East goalkeeper, NSCM All­
American in 1997 
notables: tri-captain ofteam, finalist for Missouri Athletic 
Club Player ofthe Year as a junior and a senior, finalist for Herman award as a 
senior 
pionships in Tang Soo Do karate. While she is no longer able to train and compete at the national level due to her busy soccer schedule, karate has helped Beene become a better goalie. 
"From karate I have had to be more flexible and have quicker reflexes," Beene said. "On close range shots I've learned to just react and not think about it because of karate." 
Despite all of her talents and experience, Beene, like any goalkeeper, will still give up the occasional goal. 
Nevertheless, every Irish play­er will say they wouldn't want any other keeper. 

birthdate: March 9, 1978 high school: Del Campo Big East Championship 
up close & 
hometown: Gold River, Calif dorm: Farley Hall greatest moment off the field at major: environmental greatest on the field moment at Notre Dame: going to
personal 
engineering Notre Dame: defeating soccer formal dance height: s-foot-8 Connecticut 6-I in 1997 sophomore year
WITH LAKEYSIA BEENE 





