All Spaced Out 
Stewart dies in plane crash 
Tori Amos' double CD. To Venus and Back, 
Champion golfer Payne Stewart died Tuesday 
Tuesday

flies to the moon. but alienates 
in a South Dakota plane crash. 

pop-hungry masses. 
Sports . page 15 
OCTOBER 26, 

Scene . page 13 
1999 




VOL XXXIII NO. 38 
Griffin dies at 74 
Associated l'rc,s 
Falh nr Ho IH1 rt Criffin di r: d Thursday at lloly Cross llouse. lln was 74. 
/\11 alumni or tlw Class ot' 1IJ41J, 
Gril'l'in 
rnturnnd to 
Notrn Danrn 
as assistant 
rnclor of 
Knmrnn llall 
in I <J <> 7 and 
b(\CHIHI' r(\('.• 
I.or in 11)69. 
IIP was 
appoinlnd lo 
th(• post of 

UnivPrsity l'haplain in 1974. 
wlwri· Ill' serv1HI until lwalth 
prohlPms rorcl'd his rntirnnrnnt. 
During his Notrn Danw earner, <;ril'/in ParnPd fa11w l'or presiding al tlw childrnn and parent's "Url'hin Mass" 011 campus. lie was also tlw host ol' a Saturday morning childn•n's radio pro·­gram on WSND-FM called "The Childriin's I lour." 
c;rifTin was also well-known among llw student body. Elected Senior Class Fellow in 1973, Cri!Tin was the first to receive the honor in the Notrn Dame community, as thn title had pre­viously b1wn rnscrvnd for nation­ally prominent people. 
c;ril'l'in also founded a latn­night. lhw cal'!\ in the basement of' LaFortune. Darby's, a 1970s sanctuary !'or insor1111iac. trou­blnd, lonnlv or rurious students. which wa; open nightly until 4 
11.111. 
"It's very simpln," Grif'fin said to an alumni group. "There am just tablns and chairs, and they can gd coffee and donuts, or sonwthing to nat. They come by to talk, thny come by to study, limy come by to play Urn piano. For them it is a place where they can comn to. For nm it is a locus of ministry." 
(;ril'fin also assistocl in St. .Joseph's Church in Gnrnnwich Village in Nnw York during vaca­tions and breaks counsnling drug adtlicts. panlmndlers, runaways and proslitutns. 
c;riflin also published two col­leclions of essays, "In llrn Kingdom or thn 1.orwly Cod" and "I Novm· Said I Didn't Love You." lln was also the author ol' a wnnkly newspaper column, "Evnryday Spirituality" in Our Sunday Visitor. 
Visitation was lwld Sunday at Uw Basilica of Lim SacrPd llnart, followed by a mmnorial Mass. A wak1~ and vigil snrvirn took place Monday al tlw Chap<'! of' Mary at St11nd1ill College. Norlh Eastern, Mass., where hn was once a fac­11ltv mnrnlwr. 
i\ Mass of resu1-r11ctio11 will be olTHn~d today al tho Chapel of' \1ary at 10 a.m. 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
RACE FOR THE FINISH 

JOHN DAILYfThe Observer 

Jodie Jones and Rebecca Bea, both Notre Dame students, ran in a field of 29,000 contestants in the annual Chicago Marathon Sunday. Athletes from across the nation flocked to the Windy City to compete in the 26-mile, 385-yard event. Supporters at the finish line cheer on athletes, including the two Irish runners chasing their competition. 
Panel: Sweatshops need monitors 
. Monitoring not only solution to human rights problems 
By TIM LOGAN News Editor 
Compliance monitoring is an essential element in the fight against sweatshop labor, but it is just one of the ele­ments necessary to success­fully combat abuse of work­ers, panelists told the sweat­shop symposium Monday. 
Establishing standards, educating factories about those standards and helping those factories solve th1;ir abuse problems are all important steps f'or compa­nies that want to prevent worker exploitation, said monitoring expnrt Handy Hankin. 
"Compliance monitoring is just a piece of this overall framework," Hankin said. lie is coordinator of sweatshop monitoring teams for l'ricewatcrhousc Coopers, an intrrnational ac('()unting lirm which a number of apparel manufacturers -including Notre Dame -have hired to ensure labor code compliance in their licensed factories. 
While Rankin addressed the issue largely from the per­spective of what companies can do to better enforce their codes, his co-panelist David Schilling reminded the audi­ence of' the human cost of labor abuse. 
"The sweatshop issue is not about monitoring," said Schilling, a Methodist minis­ter who runs monitoring for the Interfaith Center for Corporate Hesponsibilities. "It is about protecting and aflirming the lives of workers in factories." 
He urged people to consider the immense challnngns faced by workers who earn $6 per week making clothing in Indonesia. 
''When we talk about moni­toring, let's not forget these p0ople and tlwse communi­ties," he said. 
Schilling contended that the bnst workplace monitors were usually indigenous to the rngion where factories arc located because they understand and can relate to the workers better. 
Rankin agreed, noting that well-trained monitors who understand the issues with which workers deal commu­nicate better with those workers and 
inspected factories have "substantial" abuses. Rankin estimated, although that number is down approxi­mately 10 percent from sev­eral years ago. I le attributed this to high­er stan­

learn more about the realities of fac­torv conditions in their necessarily  'The sweatshop issue is not about monitoring. It is  dards on the part of' corpora­tions, better  
brief visits . "You simply can­not be in every fac­tory every single  about protecting and affirming the lives of  communica­tion of these standards to the facto­ 
day," he said. "It  workers in  ries  and  
becomes critical that when you do  factories."  improved monitoring  
that  monitoring  and rnmedi­ 
visit that you get  David Schllling  a  ti  on  
the most out of it." Priccwatcrhousc Coopers will run  co-panelist on sweatshop monitoring  attempts when stan­dards are  
approximately  not met.  
5,000  factory  Schilling  

inspections in tho nnxt year, urged Notre Dame not to rest according to Rankin. Those on this progress. though. He will usually consist or two urged the L:niversity to lead monitors spending a day at a the academic community in factory and putting togetlrnr a addressing the sweatshop report. The average visit issue and working at the costs between $1,200 and grass roots level to stand $1,700 for the companies that against flagrant labor abuso hire the firm. aud improvn the livns or 
More than 80 percent ol' worknrs. 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Significant factors in being an Irish Fan 
Every once in a while, I begin to question why I am a Notre Dame fan. I wonder why I continue to root with all my heart for a team that is unranked and under investigation by the NCAA. I ask why I continue to defend my favorite team against its detractors. 
Then last week, I remem­bered why I love this football team. The 25-24 victory over the Men of Troy gave me that little reminder about the magic of' this football team and the special things that happen inside that stadium. But more importantly last week, l remember that. the real reason Notre Oamo is so beloved across the country is because it does things the right way. 
W11cn Lee Lafayette's grades weren't where they should be, he was suspended from the team so that he could focus on his grades. The NCAA didn't force the Irish to suspend him. His grades are probably still above the minimum standards. Notre Dame suspended him because it was the right thing to do. He was suspended because graduating and succeeding in the classroom are higher goals than winning on the football team. 
Compare this to Ohio State where players like Andy Katzamoyer are allowed to take joke class­es and get grades that are an even bigger joke. I am glad that I will never have to open Sports Illustrated and read a feature story on whether or not an Irish player will pass golf so that he can play for the team. 
When Tony Driver broke parietals, he was sus­pended from the team. Legally, Driver did noth­ing wrong. He didn't break any national, state or local laws. Warrants issued for his arrest and he won't have a criminal record. But he did break a Notre Dame rule and for that he was suspended for the rest of the year. 
At the same that the the Irish were suspending Driver, the Seminoles of Florida State were rein­stating wide reciever Peter Warrick. According to head coach Bobby Bowden, the reinstatement was a "miracle from above." Since this was a miracle, it can probably be assumed that Warrick recovered from some horrible desease or survived an accident, because when I think of miracles, that is what l think of. 
But Warrick didn't live through cancer or a car accident, he survived a brush with the law by pleading to a misdameanor rather than a felony charge for taking more than $400 from a depart­ment store for just $21.40. If Bowden and the Florida State administration did things the right way, Warrick would be off the team faster than you could say "Free Sneaker University." 
Warrick was reinstated because he was no longer facing charges. According to Florida State rules, a player cannot take the field ifhe is charged with a felony or does jail time. 
"He's not wearing stripes, he's not in jail, and that's a significant determining factor for the university," Warrick's lawyer, John Kenny, told the Associated Press. 
I think the real significant determining factor in this case is Warrick's catches, yards and touchdowns. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Noreen Gillespie Jenn Zatorski Kace Steer Emmeu Malloy Courmey Boyle Graphics Spom Mandi Powell Kathleen O'Brien Production Viewpoint Mike Connolly Lila Haughey Lab Tech Angela Campos 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vaca,ion periods. The Observer is a member ofthe Associared Prm. All reproduction rights att reserved. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS  
Today  Wednesday  Thursday  Friday  
. lecture: "Our Perception  . Film: "Verriegelte Zeit  . Lecture: "Urban Space/  . Booksigning: "Monk's  
of Ends," Cornelius  (Locked Up in Time),  Urban Culture," Karen  Reflections, A View from  
Delaney, Snite, 4:15 p.m.  McKenna Hall, 5 p.m.  Scott, 614 Hesbmgh  the Dome," Notre Dame  
. Benefit Concert:  . Poetry Seminar: Samuel  Library, 3:30 p.m  Bookstore, 4 -6 p.m.  
"Dueling Pianos," The  Hazo, Hesburgh Library  . Concert: Glee Club's Fall  . Film: "An Ideal  
O'Neill Brothers,  Lounge, 7 p.m.  Concert, Washington Hall.  Husband," Snite. 7:30 p.m.  
Washington Hall, 7 p.m.  8p.m.  and 9:45 p.m.  

Compiled from U.Wire reports 

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Rutgers student dies after nine-story fall 
NEW BRUNSWfCK, N.J. tives have to speak to.'' 
Early Saturday morning, Rutgers 
"Some people who knew him saw University police, responding to a him that night," he said. Murphy call, found an 18-year-old College of said speaking to those people will Engineering student dead after he "help us establish a time line." foll nine stories from the McCormick Fehrenbach said she believed it residence hall on the Busch campus. happened between 4 a.m. and 5 
Bryan Batista was pronounced a.m. dead shortly after 7:25 a.m. on But members of the family said Saturday, according to a statement they did not believe the 18-year-old released by the university. had committed suicide. 
as a suicide note, was found in his
The initial call to police was made "He was definitely the support sys­
room in the Davidson residence hall
by a preceptor, according the state­tem for myself and my family," his 
on the Busch campus, Fehrenbach
ment. sister Cassandra said. The 22-year­
said.

Batista apparently jumped from old described him as "completely
"We really don't know much more
the 10th floor of the residence hall, grounded, so sincere and really self 
than that at this point. the investiga­
said Leslie Fehrenbach, vice presi­adjusted."
tion is ongoing," she said.

dent of administration and public His sister said that while she was 
University Police Chief Anthony
safety. older, she often felt as if Bryan was 
Murphy said that, based on the
According to the statement, the older brother. 
investigation and the evidence, they 
University police said they found She said the North Brunswick 
believe the death is a suicide, but
Batista on the roof of the first level. High School graduate played guitar
"there are still some people detec-
A note, which has been classified and composed piano music. 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather"' forecast for noon, Tuesday, Oct. 26. 
lines separate high temperature zones lor the day. 

UMD inquires into sweatshop use 
COLLEGE PARK, Md. 

Underneath the stitching of University of Maryland's familiar Terrapin logo lies a debate over the produc­tion of college merchandise, with the question of sweatshop labor unthreading the relationship between universities and corporate apparel produc­ers. Earlier this year, numerous universities, human rights groups and textile manufacturers came togeth­er to form the Fair Labor Association, with the goal of monitoring labor standards among footwear and apparel companies. "That's what the FLA addresses, it addresses the enforcement issues," said Brian Darmody, who coordinates campus's licensing agree­ments. The FLA charter has provisions for guarantee­ing workers' rights and a system of external monitor­ing of factory conditions. Many universities have endorsed the group, and one member of the 15 mem­ber FLA governing board represents the college com ­munity. Darmody, the assistant vice president for eco­nomic development, said he felt the FLA was the best way for campus to protect itself and protect the rights of workers. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 

Research suggests tiny life on Mars 
AUSTIN, Texas 

Ongoing University of Texas research adds another dimension to the theory that led NASA scientists to find evidence of life in a Mars meteorite. In 1996, NASA scientists recognized shapes in the Mars mete­orite as similar to those in pictures of hot springs min­erals on Earth taken in 1990 by Robert Folk, a UT geology professor. "The first tip-off that there might he life in the Martian meteorite was finding these images," Folk said. Folk said his theory that the shapes in the pictures -microscopic balls and rods which he called "nanobacteria" -might he organic was long rejected because of their size. The nanobac­teria were much smaller than scientists thought life could be, he said. Size was one of the arguments against signs of life in the Mars meteorite, found in Antarctica in 1984 and dated at 4.5 billion-years-old by NASA and the University Oct. 1. Nanobacteria range from about 50 to 200 nanometers, but the size cutoff for life has traditionally been 200 or 300 nanometers, Folk said. Recent and ongoing research, however, suggests smaller sizes for life are possible. 
........ ----.........,,.

C 1999 Accuweather, Inc, coi,.o WARM STATIONARY 
@"'"'co . e:;J ~ G c:0 D (;Jc~., 
High Low Showe.-s Rain T~ ¦tof"m ¦ Flurri11 ¦ Snow Ice Sunny Pt, Cloudy Cloudy 
Vi111 A:,;$ocialt.ld Pr9s.s 

-----------,
-------! Tuesday, October 26, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Dunbar released early on probation 
Board dedicates 
Associated Press 
Fornwr Notre Damn football boostnr Kim Dunbar was rnleasPd from prison Oct. 18 after serving onn year for emlwzzling $1.2 million from hnr formnr employnr, Dominiack Mnchanical, Inc., of South Bnnd. 
Dunhar, a l'ornrnr rnmnbnr of tlw now dnfunct Quarterback Club. won oarly rnlnase from lrnr original l'our-ynar sentnnce afl1ir completing an associatn's cl1igree program through Indiana University. She will be on probation until the year 2014 and must report to St. .I useph County probation offi­cials. 
Dunbar, 30, spent the past year in the Atterbury Correctional Unit, a minimum security prison for women north of Columbus, Ind. She also was ordered to repay thn monny she embezzled. i\ccording to a report in the South Bend Tribune, Dunbar already returned $200,000 in 
member Jeffrey Trumper and his wife Nancy, is sym­bolic of the movement to
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
keep technology as one of the College's primary initia­tives, said Joel Cooper,
Poorman invited to give address 
director of information tech­
By FINN PRESSLY Assi>tant News Fdimr 
i\t Inst night"s rnneting of the cu:, nrnmbPrs informally agnwd to invitn vicn-prnsidnnt of studnnt affairs Father Mark Poorman to spnak at an up('oming nwnting and d1ilivPr a Statn of Studl'nt Affairs addrnss. 
The duc:ision was made to lwlp llw Cl ,C: dnvelop a defined 
dirnction for the term, already three months underway, according to multicultural affairs rnprnsentative Michael Fierro, who presented thP idea. 
"At lnast we'll know where hn's coming from." said Fierro. 
Fathor David Schoidler, rec­tor of' St. Edward's llall. sug­gestecl that student body presi­d n nt Micah Murphy should rndeliver his State of the Student Union address to Poorman, so that he is aware 
cash, jewelry and vehicles. Notre Dame awaits word on 
computer cluster 
possible disciplinary measures 
from the NCAA in the Dunbar case. Dunbar reportedly spent $18,000 of the stolen money on former Irish players, a matter the University self-reported in March 1998. Notre Dame offi­cials appeared before the NCAA Committee on Infractions June 4, but the committee has not released its decision. 
The Suuth Bend Tribune con­tributed to this report. 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE Saim Mary'.s Editor 
Representing a continued commitment to technology improvement on campus, president Marilou Eldred and the Board of Trustees dedicated the newly-con­structed Trumper Computer Cluster in Cushwa-Leighton Library Oct. 15. 
The cluster. the result of a $350,000 gift from trustee 
nology. "This is emblematic of a
of what direction the student significant increase in the
union wants to take. 
level of commitment to tech­Faculty Senate representative 
nology at Saint Mary's,"professor Edward Manier 
Cooper said. "The Trumper
expressed concern that an 
Computer Cluster is a visibleeffective dialogue may not be 
representation of that com­able to take place within the 
mitment" 

· time constratints of the bi­
The cluster was built as anweekly meetings. 
alternative to the Le Mans
The senate also agreed to computer labs when the
provide Poorman with a list of 
need for more computingquestions and concerns that 
space was identified, The Lethey will discuss following his Mans labs, formerly used for
address. 
computer classes and inde­pendent student use, often 
presented conflicts l'or stu­dents who were unable to 
use a machine in the lab due to classes scheduled f'or lab USC. 
The new cluster, contain­ing 15 iMac cttmputers, 20 Dell computers, two scan­ners and a network printer is open 24 hours a day, scvon days a week for inde­pendent student use. 
Trurnpcr's donation is just part of several million dol­lars that has been spent in the past three years to improve technology on cam­pus. The additions of llesNet and technology classrooms were also portions of that initiative. 
"My wife and I know that Saint Mary's must stay cur­rent in computer technology in order to be competitive with oth8r institutions, and produce graduates who arc competitve in the job mar­ket," Trumper said. 
Student use ol' the facility has been frequent. according to Cooper. 
"It is a reasonably utilized facility," Cooper said. "Basically, people havn been piling in. It's doing what it needs to do." 
The dedication took place in the basement of the Cushwa-Leighton Library as a part of' the Board of Trustees' two day nHHlting on Saint Mary's campus. 


Professor arrested for heroin use 
A message left with .John .Jay College was not returned. 
A federal criminal com­plaint filed against llamid accused him of experimenting with heroin after accepting money for the research grant while he worked at the col­loge between June 1<)96 and November 1997. 
Ilamid allegedly wrote pro­ject field notes in Octolrnr 1996, saying "YnstPrday ended my month-long experi­ment with ... heroin use." When later confronted by an investigator, llamid admitted he had experimented with heroin for a month while serving as the project's direc­tor, the complaint said. 
If convicted, llamid could face a maximum of 10 ynars in prison and a f'inn of $250,000 or twicn Urn gain or loss rnsulting from tlw crimP. 
Associated Press 

NEWYOHK 
A former professor at .John Jay College was arrested Monday on federal theft charges that accuse him of personally experimenting with heroin while conducting a federally funded heroin study. 
Ansley Hamid, 55, was ordered held on $25,000 bond after a brief' court appearance. 
"It's ridiculous," Hamid said outside court. "One day the story will get out, the whole story." 
Hamid allegedly used hero­in after he was awarded a $2.6 million research grant in June 1996 to study "the developmental cyr.le of' lrnroin use in New York City from 19% tu 2000." 
www.superjobs.com 

pfae-e f~af ,fat\d, ou.f. 
(. 


COLLEGE EVENT 
"Our PPrception of Emls: of tlw World, 
Science, History, Art, and Philo~ovhv" 
A LECTURE BY 
CORNELIUS DELANEY 
Professor, Department of Philosophy University of Notre Dame 
TO BE HELD IN THE TWENTIETH CENTURY GALLE;RY THE SNITE MUSEUM OF ART UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
RECEPTION FOLLOWS IN THE ATRIUM OF THE SNITE MUSEUM OF ART 
TUESDAY, OCTOBE_U 26, 1999 
4:15 pm 
Gore speaks with teenagers 
. School violence, Social Security top conversation 
Associated Press 
NASHUA, N.H. 

Most of those who quizzed Vice President Al Gore during a foruml'or undecided voters Monday night have years to 
make up t h e i r minds. More than half of the audience was made of teen­agers too 


young  to  Gore  
vote.  
Some  of  

them worried about school violence and Gore promised that, if elected president next year, he would make it harder for young people to get guns. 
"I think the number one solution to this problem is better parenting," said Gore, who is competing against for­mer Sen. Bill Bradley for the Democratic presidential nomi­nation. 
Gore also said there must be zero tolerance Tor guns at school. more effective drug abuse educat°ion and more responsibility by the enter­tainment industry to reduce violence. 
During the two-hour cam­paign event, Gore promised a 13-year-old with diabetes that he would support more research into the disease. He also cracked a few jokes. 
He asked one teen-ager what grade he was in, which prompted Manish Atani, 16, to ask jokingly, "What grade are you in?" 
Gore replied, ''I'm in the seventh year of my vice presi­dency, and I'm ready to grad­uate. I hope I do." 
David Brownell of Nashua asked whether he would sup­port requiring candidates to set aside some of their federal campaign money to provide their campaign literature in forms acceptable to the blind. 
Gore promised he would put out his information in large type and braille, and explore other ways of making it easier for the disabled to stay informed. 
When Ken Massey of Hudson asked whether he would veto any budget that used gimmicks or dipped into the Social Security fund, Gore said he opposed tapping Social Security money. 
"You said you would oppose gimmicks. My question is, would you commit to vetoing that budget?" Massey added. 
Gore replied: "I will vigor­ously oppose it if there are clearly outrageous gimmicks for a raid on Social Security. Yes, I will veto. I'm not trying to dodge the question. I am just trying to give the most responsible answer I can." 
Later, Massey said, "I didn't find him to be wooden or unfunny. I found him to be very articulate. The image on TV and the image the print press puts out is not the image I saw." 
Earlier in the day, Gore knocked on about a half dozen doors in Nashua as he searched for undecided vot­ers, then picked up an endorsement from the Professional Firefighters. 


Saint Mary's College 

Box Office at 
284-4626 
of six American women. 
Thursday -Saturday November 11 -13 at8p.m. 
Sunday, November 14 at 2:30 p.m. Little Theatre 
IM~ C_~ THE ARTS 
~NOTREDAME, IN 
The Observer. 
It's where you get your news. 
McCain accuses Bush 
. Candidate upset over report he is 'hot-tempered' 
Associated Press 
SAN fHANCISCO 
Sen. John McCain accused Republican presidential rival George W. Bush on Monday of orchestrating a campaign to tarnish his image. 
But McCain said he was flattered to get such atten­tion from the Texas gover­nor, who is the front-runner for the GOP presidential nomination. 
"Even though sometimes it's not so pleasant, it's really something that should be a little encouraging, because we are closing on him, and that clearly has him unhap, py," the Arizona senator said at a news conference here. 
McCain, who has gained ground on Bush in the key state of New Hampshire, was referring to a New York Times article on Monday that portrayed him as hot-tem­pered and engaged in a feud with Arizona's govern9r, Jane Hull, who has endorsed Bush. 
Hull told the newspaper that her relations with McCain were "not particular­ly warm," and that McCain has a short fuse. 
He blamed the Bush cam­paign for helping plant the story. 
"Apparently the memo has gone out from the Bush cam­paign to start attacking John McCain -something that I'd hoped wouldn't. happen," McCain said. 

"It's unfortunate that these kinds of personal attacks would be orchestrated from the Bush campaign, but it happens." 
Margita Thompson, a spokeswoman for Bush's California campaign, said Bush was sticking to the high road. 
"As he has always done, Gov. Bush is running a posi­tive, issue-oriented campaign based on his message of campaign in Iowa and New Hampshire while declining to participate in debates with his Republican rivals. Bush has cited scheduling conflicts as reasons for skipping a GOP candidates' forum last Friday in New Hampshire, along with one scheduled for Thursday in the state. 
"It's curious that he would somehow feel that people aren't interested enough to watch a debate, but they'll want to watch a campaign commercial," McCain said. "I 
improving schools, strengthen­

"It's unfortunate that
ing our 

national these kinds ofpersonal defense attacks would be 
and cutting 

orchestratedfrom the 
taxes," 

Bush campaign, 
Thompson 

said. "As but it happens." he has said before, he 
Sen. John McCain
likes Sen. McCain as GOP presidential candidate a person, and will 
hope he'll realize that people really are probably more interest­ed in debates than they are in paid politi­
"' 'cal commer­cials." McCain also apologized Monday for campaign aides who barred 

treat him with respect." 
Pressed on whether Bush had orchestrated the story, she declined further com­ment. 
Asked whether he had a temper, McCain said: "I plead guilty to getting angry when I see gross injustices take place such as I see happen quite often in the Congress of the United States. 
"But do I insult anybody or fly off the handle or anything like that? No, I don't." 
McCain also assailed Bush for launching an advertising reporters from a fund-raiser earlier in the day in Napa, saying the incident violatP.d his own policy of conducting such gatherings under news media scrutinv. , 
Such open{1ess is impor­tant, suggested McCain. who has made revamping the campaign finance system a centerpiece of his campaign. 
"We're all tainted by these allegations -a system that causes us to be suspected of corruption, and that's the unfortunate part of it," McCain said. 



----------..............­
Tuesday, Ocrober 26, 1999 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Four Pro-Iran spies arrested 
BJ\C;JmAD 
Iraq an11011n(·.nd Monday Lhal il had arrnst.nd !'our rnn111lrnrs ol' a pro-Iran spy network d1argnd with gatlwring i111'ormation about sl'nsitive gov(irnml'nl facilities and assassinat­i11g key Iraqi olfo:ial:-.. The !'our men wcrP shnw11 on national t1d1wision confessing to rhargt's of' PspionagP andmurdnr, including Lhal of J\bdu!lah Fadhil, tlw former cndow­llll'flts and religious minister. Tim nrnn, IH'lW!w11 Llw ages of' 2<, and 28, am all from Baghdad. Thny, 1:c;.11/'nss1~d 011 1\I-Shabab tolovi­sion 1hal !.h<'y had rncf'ived funding frnm Iran. whil'h urgnd tlwm to quickly carry out Faclhil's assassination, ligypt's Middle East l\lm'VS Ai.wncy fl'!Hll"tl'd. 
Missouri governor apologizes 
for blackface 

.JH'Fl-:IlSO!'-: CITY, Mo. 
Cov. M«·I Carnahan apologiznd Monday for app11aring in blackl'an• at a minstrnl show 3cJ y1•ars ago, and laslwd out al Hepublir.ans for u1war1 hing a IWiO photo ol' the perl'ornrnnc«L "I l't>1~1 likP l'vfl grovvn," said Carnahan, a l>1•nHHTat who is challnnging H!\publican Snn . . John Aslwrol't for l1is SPnatP sPat in 2000. "I Cl'l'lainly rPgn1t my participation in this kind of thPaln, and I sin1·1•rPly and rnadily apolo­gi11• !'or my inst>nsil.ivity ol' 39 ynars ago," the <,!i-yPar-11!<1 govPrnor acldPd. Carnahan said lw should lw judg1\d on his rncord, including IPgislatiVI' spo11sorshi11 of a state civil rights law in I')l,5 and tlw appoinlmnnt of tlrn first hlark Missouri SuprPnH' Courl judge in I 'JIJ5. 
Police capture violent leader 
MEXICO CITY 
l'oli1·1• havP 1·apturPd tlin lnadnr of' onn ol' 11.foxi('()'s most vioh,nt ldtist gu!\rrilla groups, a man arrusPd ol' kidnapping businessnwn and ol" attacks 011 policn and soldinrs . .Jacobo Silva Nogales, rP1rnr1,,d ly known as "Comandantn ;\nl.onio," was presc\ntPd to n•portnrs Sunday along wi1h lhrnn ,dinged acw111plircs al tlw nation's top-security prison al Almoloya. !iO mill's w1ist of' Mexico City. Silva, 41, and tlw otlwrs WPl'I' arrested Friday during 11 rnid on a saf'P housn in tlw Gtwrrnro slat•• rnpilal of' Chilpand11go, officials said. (;lll'l'l'Pro Stall' Allof'll!'V CP1wral Carlos Javier v..ga told a news n111hirn11cl' that Silva had ndmiUPcl !wing a f'ou11d11r and leader of tlrn llPvol11tio11ary /\rmy of llw Insurgent People, known as !Im F,--rtw group is an offshoot or lhn l'opular-Hnvolulionary Army that attackncl police and soldit•rs in August 1996. 
lii•i#liwtl1M((HIJ
Dow AMEx: 
791.22 

]ONES -1.3\1 Nasdaq:
-120.32 
2815.95 
-0.57 
NYSF:

f I 
¥ 
597.31 
-3.85 
S&I' 500: Composite 1293.63 
Volume:

10,349.93 
18,804,371,919
-8.02 
VOLUME LEADERS 

CQMtM(J TIQlU 't, C:YMAI •CIWKil tRJ:bl 
t!tseo 5YSTDl8 csco -n.09 -0.0'25. 6ili. 5.0 COMJ-.l.Q COMPUTIE'R. CPO +<l. 35 +O .J5J5 :U.9,f, i'IULU' t!Ollfl..Ui C MO +J ,CL) t0. 7500 15 .50 LUCEN'I" Tl:Cff INC LU +ft.l'l +3.50!0 59.U Jtrt'SL cOU 1irrc -2.te -:2.1875 71.25 Dl:LL COMR'UTl:R DELL -l.7:1 -0.6850 n.n MICllOBOFT CO~P MSPT -0 .27 -O.U1'S '12.U 
•,t:n:• XNC ... -3, ,o -1.12,0 ,o. oo 
llf't'-1, ·aus MACHIN IBM -Q, 06 -o. 057 5 93.88 UN MJ<'.'ROY'l''fll SUNW .~.:n •~. !UOO !12.U 
-·--------·1 
' 
.

orld 
I ¦ 

COMPILED FROM THE 0RSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
EAST TIMOR 
In a press conference, Commander Xanana Gusmao told reporters that East Timor's independence struggle would go down as a dark page in the book of history. Voting councils gave the United Nations power to oversee the transaction of East Timor to independence. 
U.N. gains power of East Timor 
Associated Press 
L'NITED NATIONS 
Voting unanimously for its biggest peacek1rnping operation in five years, Lim Security Council on Monday gave the United Nations power to run East Timor during the territo­ry's transition to indepen­dence. 
Sending more than 9,000 troops to maintain order, the United Nations will take over East 
VENEZUELA 
Journalists face censorship issues 
Timor's administration, rebuild its shattered infrastructure. and help its 800,000 people toward democracy and indepen­dence after more than a quarter of a century under Indonesia. 
"It will be one of the largest and maybe one of' the most costly opera­tions" that the United Nations has undertaken, saidundcrsecretary­General for Peacekeeping Bernard Miyet. 
U.N. troops are expect­

ed to replace a I5-nation force dispatched last month to restore order­after pro-Indonesian mili­tias went on a rampage after Aug. 30, when the territory voted over­whelmingly for indepen­dence. 
"It's an important chal­lenge and I think it's a crucial stage in the lives of the people of East Timur," Secretary­General Kofi Annan said after the vote. "We will establish the mission as 
still subject to final approval, is Ollll of hun­dreds of articles the assem­bly is considering for the new constitution, which Chavez said was needed to clean up some of the world's worst corruption. 
The media article says Venezuelans "have the right to opportune, truthful, impartial and uncensored information." 
But the measure would 
quickly as w11 can." 
lie announced tho appointment of' Sergio Vieira de Mello, tho U.N. undersecretary-general for humanitarian affairs, as his special representa­tive and the transitional administrator in East Timor. 
Vieira de Mello, a Brazilian. will be in charge of both civilian and military operations, and will have the powor to enact, amend, suspend or repeal laws. 
be impossibln to nnforce and could lead to censor­ship, said J\ll'rndo Pena. a leading journalist who is a Chavez supporter and an elected member of the assembly. 
"No one has the absolutn truth," Pena said, adding that it would be a violation of democratic principles to have journalistic accounts reviewed by "an inspector of lies." 

Associated Press 
CARACAS 
Journalists said Monday that a proposed article in Venezuela's new constitu­tion to give people the 
·right to the truth in news would lead to attacks on the media. 
Supporters of Presid1mt Hugo Chavez insisted the 
measure, approved over the weekend by the pow­erfu I constitutional assembly, was not censor­ship but an attempt to encourage fair reporting. 
Critics, including a few respected Chavez backers, said the article was an ominous sign that freedom of the press in one of Latin America's oldest democra­cies was in jeopardy. 
The proposal, which is 
page 6 

Buchanan declares need for third-party campaign, reform 
Associated Press 
FALLS CHURCH, Va. 
Republican presidential can­didate Pat Buchanan bolted the GOP on Monday to mount a third-party campaign and "res­cue God's country" from a cul­tural and moral pit "Only the llcform Party offers the hope of a real debate and a true choicn," he said. 
"Our vaunted two-party sys­tmn is a snare .'!ml a delusion, a fraud upon the nation," said Buchanan. a thrice-failed GOP candidate whose anti-abortion conservatism and anti-trade populism could siphon votes f'rom lh(' Republican and Democratic nominees. 
lie first must win 
lhe Reform 

"You don't know this 
and Democrats
Party nom­

peasant army. We have have become in
ination, no 

Washington.
small task not yet begun to _fight!" 
D.C.," he told
ii' billion­

an invitation­
a i r e 

Pat Buchanan only gathering
Donald 

presidential candidate of about 200
Trump ­
who joined the party's New York a!Tiliate Monday -Minnesota Gov. Jesse Ventura or party founder Ross Perot jump in the race. Buchanan is a longshot for the presidency: National polls suggest that no more than one in 10 voters support him. 

Starting down what he called "our Patriot's Road," the pugna­cious consecvative had harsh words for President Clinton, presidential front-runner George W. Bush, the Supreme Court, tbe Education Department, leaders of both major parties, United Nations Secretarv-General Kofi Annan and "the godless New World Order." 
"Let me say to the money boys and the Beltway elites who think that, at long last, they have pulled up their drawbridge and locked us out forever: You don't know this peasant army. We have not yet begun to fight!" Buchanan said. 
"Go Pat, go!" shouted more than 300 support,irs from the ranks of the Republican and Reform parties, gathered at a suburban Washington hotel. 
His sound system repeatedly failing him, the former Nixon Whito Houso aide joked, "Who put G. Gordon Uddy in chaqi;e oftlrn microphones?" 
Later, in Manchester. '.'J.11., on Monday night, Buchanan declared himst>lf "in this ligh1 to the end for the causes we believe in." 
"We don't need another 
Xerox copy as 
the Republicans 
supporters and 
New Hampshire 
Reform Party 
members. 
Buchanan is the sixth per­son to quit the GOP nomination race, leaving Bush and five others, A compacted primary schedule and the Texas gover­nor's record-shattering fund­raising winnowed the field ear­lier than usual. 
Buchanan criticized Bush·s education plans and delivered a veiled slap at the front-run­ner by saying both parties "seek out the hollow men, the malleable men" as candidates. 
In a statement released by his campaign. Bush said, "Pat Buchanan is leaving the Republican Party because Republicans rejected his views during his three failed attempts to earn the 
Republican Party's presidential recent weeks as others nomination." 
denounced Buchanan's views The remarks were more about Nazi Germany. pointed than usual from Bush. Presidential rival John He had measured his words in McCain of Arizona, who had 

suggested that Bush was appeasing Buchanan, issued a terse statement Mondav. "I do not mourn his <.lepartL;rc," ho said. 
Looking for the perfect on-campus spot for mid-afternoon discussion groups that offers light snacks and bever~ge ~~rvice? --...···· .•:¾tJff.;;>;x=·· ;,, · _,~-:--·)~.JC~\-\:::z.:: .,:'! .. J¥: _. ·:J. :·.·,,:.:._.-.,l~:'.~:$\ '!i;;\-.N:",:,~,~fr:''~-.:. ·.._.. ,·\.,,1:' Please call 17te University Club of Notre Dame 631-4678  

Tuesday, Occohcr 26, 1999 The Observer . !NTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
GUATEMALA 
Former vice president 
Herbruger dies at 87 
A»ociotcJ Pn·s., 
<;U/\TEMAIA CITY 

Cuatmnalan former vier. pros• id1Hll /\rluro llorbruger Aslurias. founder ol' an organl· zation that oversaw the coun­try's rnturn to dmnocracy afl<ir a l'ailml coup, di<'d Monday. fin was 87. 
/\ familv nrnmbnr who con· 11rmcd llc;rbruger's cloath said lw had suffornd l'rom dialwtns um! hronchinl pn1111mo11ia. 
1!1\rbrnger establislwd tlrn S11prP11w Fkt:Lornl Tribunal in l<JK:~. the organizatinn that pn:sidml ovnr dm:l.ions for the NaLional Constitmional J\ss1m1hlv in IIJK4 and prnsidnn­lial clcrtions in 198:i mu! I1)90. II" lrnadnd tlw tribunal unt.il I1J1J:-t 
/\l'tl'I" tlw l'ailurn ol' au attempted coup on May 25, 1993. against tlwn-Presidcnt .Jorge Serrano Elias, the Congn•ss d<•signat<'d Hamiro do l.t1on Carpio as president and llcrbrugcr as vice prnsidfmt, to serve until .January 1996. 
At the timn or his death, llerbrugcir was serving as a roprnscntaLive of' the Central American Parliament, made up of 120 reprnsentativcs from Guatemala, 1londuras, Panama, Nicaragua, El Salvador and the Dominican Republic. 
1lerbrugnr was considered a brilliant lawyP-r who also at otrn , timo sorved as presidont of the country's supremo court, as uttorn11y gminrul, and as trl'a­sury minister. 
lln is survived hy his wil'o, Estnr CastanPda do ·11orbrugor, and two d1ildrnn. A runcrul was plannnd for Tur.sday. 
The Observer. 
It's where you get your news. 
ISRAEL 
Palestinians swarm open passage 
Associated Pr-rss 
EHEZ CHOSSING 

Hundreds of cager Palestinians shouldering duf­fel bags ancl suitcases trnv~ cled 28 miles across Israel on Monday -inaugurating a "safo passage" that for the l'irst time links the areas under their control and takes them a step closer to state­hood. 
For some, the passage by bus or taxi between the Gaza Strip and tho West Bank was tlioir first glimpse inside the country they had struggled against for yr.ars. 
From th<' window of his taxi, Sarni Ahmed, a 19-yiiar­old who had nevcir beforr left Gaza, intently observed the lsraoli landscapes l'lying by; communal !'arms, pine forests and Lhn occasional military jeep guarding the route, 
"What arc those?" he asked, pointing to snnrn ruins. 
Fellow passenger Saber /\bu Lehi1~h. 70. who knew the arna from tlrn time bel'ore Israel's cnrntion in 1948, said they were the remains of Beil Jibrin, an Arab village destroyed in the 1948 Mideast war. 
The safo passage between the Erez Crossing in Gaza to Tarkumiya in the West Bank takes thn Palestinians a step closer to statehood by linking the two autonomous areas on either side of Israel that they the safe passage was open. hope will eventually make up Abu Lehieh said he hadn't their state. The opening loft Gaza since the 19'):3 sign­helped boost Palestinian sup• ing of Urn first Israeli­port for peacemaking ancl Palestinian peace agrnement.. also enabled residents of In the past six years, Israel crowded Gaza to seek jobs in imposed more and more the more prospnrous West restrictions on Palestinian Bank. travel, including hlankr-t 
In all, some 1 :32,000 security closures, to prevent Palestinians are so far eligi­Islamic militants from carry­ble to use the route -ing out attacks. 130,000 "The peace workers agreement 
and busi· "Careful with those was signod. 
ness people and the doors
travel permits, they are
who have ol' Erez had per­your ticket to freedom. " [crossing! mission to swung shut," enter Israel Abu Lehieh
Ali Mohammed
in the past, recallod. 
and 2,000 Israeli taxi driver on 
who were granted special passage permits in recent days, In the past, those with permits could go to Israel, but not to the other Palestinian territory. 
More safe passage permits are to be issued in coming days. Israeli officials said they expected about 1,000 daily travelers on Urn route, which is open from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
"Careful with those travel p11rmits, they are your tickl'ts to freedom," taxi driver Ali Mohamm11d admonished his six eager passengers. 
Arabic music blasting l'rom his taxi radio, Mohammed was busv making calls on his mobile phone to tell friends 
However, 
Monday, hn 
was uplrnat. "Step by step, wo are getting closer to pHace." 
The taxi completod tho trip in about half' an hour. lsranl allows up to two hours for the trip, and travelers am clocked upon departure and arrival. 
Those who are late can expect to be questioned by Israeli security forces. 
On Monday the mood was pleasant, with lsranli oflicnrs shaking hands with somn travel11rs. 
Shadi Abu A.rah, 20, an unemployed Gaza rnsidnnt who arrived in the West Bank by bus, said he was headed to the town of Tulkarnm to look for a job. 



As you begin your ascent to the top, remember, it's what you learn along the way that counts. At Ernst & Young,  
you can have endless learning opportunities working with leading companies in  
leading industries. So when you get to your destination, you'll belong there. Ride with us. www.ey.com  FORTUNEnm"'\~,.  
~PANIEI  
TD WDRII FDR  

CONSULTING• TAX• ASSURANCE 
_=r_, ERNST& YOUNG 
FROM THOUGHT TO FINISH.'"' 
. _@1999 ERNST & YOUNG lLP 

Tuesday, October 26, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
-----:_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_--_-_-_-_-_-_--=--=--=--=---=---=========-======================================================================================= 
U.S. budget yields unexpected dividend 
Associated Press 
WJ\SIIINCTON 

For all tlw political blood slwd ovnr l'rnsirlr\nt Clinton's SJ)f\nding proposals and pfforts 
I> y 
Hl!publi!"ans 
l.o cut taxes, tlw standoff lhis year ovPr budget policy has ll'll tlw two parli!\S into a third courso, llrn slashing of the national dPht. that could havP Pnormous political and CCOllOllliC COnSPCfUl!llCPS. 
Such a momPnlous dncision, madP almost by dPl'ault as each sidP block1HI tlw other's proposals for allocating pro­jm:ted Federal lmdgnt surplus­es, has ramifications that are sum to11clipse the outcome of tlw currnnt sparring over financing l'or l!ducation, across-thP-board spending cuts and the likt). 
Despitn the magnitude of the d1idsion. it was made without an nxplicit vote or even a full dnbatri in Congress and the country. 
Although there were trillions or dollars in projected surplus­es on the table in a town that has never had trouble parcel­ing out money. the two sides csscn tially battled each other to a draw on what to do with that mmrny. There was nu big tax cut. Them was 110 big surge in Government spend­ing. There was no expansion 


of Mndicarn and no agree­ment on how to shore up Social Security. 
Yet gridlock in this case meant that tlrn surplus was left morn or less intact. And because of the way the Government's finances work, running a surplus means that the excoss revenirns flowing into Washington will auto­matically go to paying down 
the debt thn nation ran up during -tlecades of deficit spending and doing so at a pace that would have been considercdfantasy even a year ago. 
Should the Government stick to the course on which it is setting out, it could eliminate themost important component of the debt. the $3 .6 trillion in Treasury bonds owned by the public, in 10 or 15 years. 
While the approach was never put to a vote or even fully debated in Congress, it yielded an outcome that most economists, including Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, consider very positive for the economy over the long run. 
Clinton signs defense bill 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton signed the $268 billion defense spending bill Monday and averted whut would have been a tough and risky drive lo coax Democrats to uphold a veto. 
Clinton cornplained the bill contained spending for pro­jects the Pentagon had not requester! and used budget gimmicks such as declaring $ 7 billion in base m ainte­nance an "emergency" that would not count against spending limits. 
Nonetheless, he said, "In good conscience I cannot allow our national security needs to be held hostage to this budget battle." 
Clinton's decision leaves him battling Hepublicans over five spending bills to athieve his demands for $5 billion to $10 billion more for hiring teachers and police officers, buying park land, foreign aid and other programs. Those differ­ences, plus administration opposition to provisions helping the mining, ranch­ing and oil industries, seem unlikely to be resolved until next month. 
By signing the Pentagon measure, Clinton avoided escalating and prolonging the budgt>t fight further and 

"/ will not sign any budget that puts special interests above the national interest. " 
Bill Clinton President 
intensifying bitter feelings between the parties. 
"Although we'll continue to have some period of time of hard work, yes, I'm opti­mistic this makes it even that much easier to resolve the budget battle, House .Majority Leader Dick Armey, R-Texas, told reporters. 
In recent days, Clinton had considered rejecting the measure to gain lever­age in the budget fight by making it a bargaining chip in his push for more money. 
In the end, the bill proved too laden with popular 
. spending for a veto to be politically feasible. Costing $4.5 billion more than Clinton requested, the bill included money for a 4.8 percent military pay raise and scores of projects for lawmakers' home districts. Some Democrats, including the influential Rep. John Murtha, O-Pa., had said they would work to over­ride the veto. Failure to round up 
enough Democratic votes to uphold a veto would have weakened 
Clinton's hand in budget talks and !men a stinging foreign affairs defeat, espe­ciallv after the Senate's Oct. 13 rejection of the global nuclear test ban treaty. For his veto to prevail, Clinton would have nfHHlecl onn­third plus one of' either tlrn Housfi or Senate. 
Clinton told reporters he believed he could have won but worried that Democrats would be "attacked by the Republicans for being against the defense budget that thu Democratic Party has basically pursued." 
Clinton's signature on tlrn bill avoided exposing Democrats to a traditional GOP accusation that they are soft on defense. White House officials also hope it will sharpen attention on 
Clinton ·s battle with Republicans over his budget proposals and the GOP's plan to cut federal agencies' spending by 1.4 percent. 
"I will not allow Congress to raise its own pay and fund its own pork-barrel projects, and still make dev­astating across-the-board cuts in everything from edu­cation to child nutrition to the FBI," Clinton· said Monday. "I will not sign any budget that puts special interests above the national interest." 



Microsoft· 
www.microsoft.com/ college/ www.microsoft.com/ college 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 10 BSERVER Tuesday, October 26, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, None Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Noire Dame, IN 465'}6 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michelle. Krupa 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogero  
A,ST. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura l'etelle  

NFWS EDITOR: Tim Logan V!EWPOlNT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughcn SPORTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler 

SCENE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO F.DffOR: Kevin Dalum 
AUVERTISlNG MANAGER: Bryan Lutz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Brer Huelat SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers WLB AvMINlSTRATOR: Erik Ku,liro 
CONTROLLER: Timothy Lane G1W>HICS EDITOR: Joe· Mudlcr 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICi,; MANAGER/GENERAL INFO.............6Jl-7471 FAX.... .. .. .................................................63 I.(,')27 ADVERTISING ..................................63 !-6~00/.8840 
ohservcr@darwi11.cc.11d.cdu EnITOR IN CH!EF ........................................631-4~42 MANAGING EUJTOR/AsST. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE......................................631-53 I 3 NEWS. .....................................631 -~325 
observer.obsncws. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT .. , ..................................... 631-5.'I0.3 ohservcr.vicwpoint. l@.nd.edu SPORTS.......................................................63 1-4'i43 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu SCENE.......................................................631-4540 obserl'cr.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S... ......................................63 l-4.H4 observer.smc. J@nd.edu 
PHOT0....:...................................................631-8767 
SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................6:31-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
.Visit our Web site at lmp:llohserver.11d.ed1t for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, ttatL.rcs and opinion columns, as well as cartoons. reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music tOr

weather for up-to-the 
minure forecasts 
weekly srudcm reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for sp~­
and rares of print ads 
cial campus coverage 

archives to search for 
about The Observer 

articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
staff

August 1999 
POLICIES 
. The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the Universitv of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Marv's College. Editorial content is not governed by policies of the administrarion ofeither institution. Acting as pub­lisher ofThe Observer, the adminisrration of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac prohibits the adver­tisement ofalcohol and.The Observer's acceptance of advertisements from specified types ofgroups. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily rhose ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Qumiom regarding Ob,crver policies ,houl.d be dir,:ct­ed to Editor in ChiefMichelb Krnpa. 

The new fiscal millennium is nearly une month old. We've had iw budgetary equivalent of the prt>dictPd Y2K chaos. but the problems rnpresented by the FY2000 national budget am much morn insidious_ While this political battle has Laura not failed to otfor 
Antkowiak 

partisanship, heacl·­lines, dosecl-cloor meetings and (·.am­
Right to life

paign sound bites, it lacks respect for the inherent dignity of 
human lifo. 
Al the time of this writing, (:ongress and Pres-idcnt Clinton remain<'d dead-· locked over the status of the national budget. which technically should have been completed in time for the beginning of a new fiscal yoar on Oct. 1. Most of the 13 spending bills have not been passed by Congress and signed by the president. The government has been funded by a continuing resolution, though the prospect of a shutdown still looms. 
One major source of this year's budget battle is the Balanced Budget Act of 1997. which set limit-; on spending believed necessary for eliminating the federal deficit. Having achieved a bal­anced budget sooner than expected, Congress has turned its attention toward crafting a different type of balanced bud­get, one that does not dip into Social Security revenues to fund government activities other than Social Security pay' ments. Raising taxes is out of the ques­tion. It has since become clear that under such constraints, government spending will have to be cut further and various accounting gimmicks employed in order to achieve a balanced budget. 
. This situation has left the flailing Republican party facing some dismal choices. Should Republicans stick by their spending caps and slash spending, remaining open to criticism of being mean-spirited and, in the words even of Republican presidential hopefuls, "bal­ancing the budget on the backs of the poor'?" or should Republicans cave on the spending caps or use of Social Security revenue, even though their agenda and the. capability of their Jt1ader­ship would lose credibility? In either casr. the much-maligned President Clinton could claim victon•. 
Apparently many politicians, when caught up in balancing the numbers. overlook that the figures in the annual spending bills are resources that make a concrete imimct in the livPs ofindividual people -the salary of an American sol­dier keeping the peace in Kosovo. a free school lunch for a child who vvould other­·wise go hungry, a subsidy that keeps a family farm or business operating. Perhaps somewherP in there our govern­ment r(;ally is spending $96.000 on a toi­let seal or a hundred bucks for a Band­Aid. and if so, shame on it. Nevertheless, as much fraud and waste as there may be within some government programi, I have a di . icult time generalizing fodPral spending. particularly on the poor, as 
· wast1;ful and therefore worthy ol' tlw budget axe. 

Conservative budget havvks are not the only guilty party. Though l don't d1iubt lhat some Democrats -and some Republicans as well -genuinely hold helping people as their lirst priority, con­gressional Democrats have largely taken the position that they are powerless right now. They claim that things wi_ll be better when they are back in control of Congress again. Clearly Republican fum­bling of the budget issue is an opportuni­ty for Democratic political gain, even, and perhaps especially, if people suffer from spending cuts in the meantime. 
Students who take Introduction to Public Policy learn that in addition to simply allocating federal dollars, the bud­get rellccts political priorities. So what does this first national budget of the new millennium (or the last budget, if you prefer) say about American political val­ues? Thus far, it has shown that winning partisan arguments and keeping or win­ning power take precedence over meet­ing human need. Yes, there are good­hearted people who are exceptions, but follow the debate in mainstrnam newspa­pers and find an account of the show­
down bPtween Rnpublicans and Clinton. 
or talk to an overworkHd Appropriations 
staff person and find numbPrs that must 
be yt,t again revisPd until they halanrc. 
Someday soon, maybe today, party 
leadership will stand up with Prnsidcnl 
Clinton for a nice photo i,pportunity and 
triumphantly announce that tlrny haw 
come to a bipartisan agrPcmPnt on th(~ 
budget that will presPrv<1 Social Security. 
lfopublicans will claim t lwy havn kept 
tlwir promises to Anwrir.a·s taxpayers. 
and Clinton will daim that lw has suwd 
AmPrka's vulnerable from dPcp budget 
cuts. SomPwlwre in a tiny Capitol I !ill 
oflirn. stafl'Prs up on thnir atTotmting 
tricks will haw finally made tlrn numlwrs 
come out just right oi1 paper -and WI). 
the public, may nev1\r know how th<' final 
product will alter the lives of thosP of our 
neighbors who are more directly df'pen­
dcnt on foderal spending. Until next fall. 
wlwn somn leaders will talk of wastn and 
otlrnrs will rite figures on famili1is dnnind 
affordable housing ber.ause of projected 
budget cuts. And onee again. people and 
their llP.lids will lw up f'or political manip­
ulation, if considered at all'. This is no 
way of acknowledging the respcct that 
1wery human person descrves, simply for 
being a human person with inhernnt dig­
nity. 
Both Republicans and Democrats 
should take a step back from their podi­
ums and think about who their actions 
are really serving. We are beginning a 
new millennium. It is about time that our 
"public servants" close their mouths on 
rhetoric and pass a national budget that 
elevates the needs of the person abowi 
partisan power. 
Laura 1lntkowiak is a senior 
Government major from J,ewis llall and 
the co-president ofND/SMC Right to Life. 
The Right to Life column appears every ·other week. 
The views expressed in this column are 
those ofthe author and not necessarily 
those of The Observer. 

DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 

_T_IN_A_T_H_£_T_E_C_H_W_R_IT_E_R_ 

i 
IF YOU PRICK US, DO WE NOT BLEED
WHY MU5T THE TECH LIKE ENGINEERS?
WRITERS BE DOWN­SIZED AFTER THE MERGER? 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Iron rusts from disuse; stagnant water loses .its purity and in cold weather becomes frozen; even so does inaction sap the vigor ofthe mind." 
Leonardo da Vinci artist and inventor 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

Tuesday, October 26, 1999 BSERVER page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
School spirit does wonders 
Congratulations' Seriously. Okl,1hmna. Arizona State, USC -thn~n victories and threii terrific examphis of' what the ND student l.mdy is all about. Very impressiv<'. 
l chastised many ofyou in u leUur following thu MSU game. For what<'vnr rna­sons, your behavior during and aftnr that gamn may havn b<1Hn a onf! lime 11bber­ation. Lot's hope so. In any event, I (as wPII as other alums) am once again impressed by what seems to be genuine and sincen~ sup­port of the team members by their follow students. 
Right through the final notes of the "Hike Song." And especially at the begin­ning of the second half of the USC gamo when things lookod really bleak; and par­ticularly from what looked to be the freshman class. I, for one, believe that spirit made a big difference in the out­come. Keep it up. 
Thomas 0, Misch Northbrook, Illinois Class of'68 Ocrober 25, 1999 

I\ lisl of qwistions and statPments as regards the Vnivcffsity's ccmtinue-d harassment nr Notre Dame gays {alumni and studenl'i) -prohibiting ads ­l)('rause, as thn !\drninistration says, the groups, "din\clly c;r indirect­ly. espouse positions con­trary t(I ttw trntchings of the {:aLh11li<· ( :Jrnrl'h." 
Th<' Notn1 Danw Administration wants to talk about snx. Let's talk about it: 
I. Will all thosn faculty nwmbers and students who have had abortions or who hav11 1mcouraged tlrnir wives or girlfriends to havn such. plt\asn raise your hands'? 
2. Will all those men ­rnarri11d or single -who hav11 sodomiznd wives or girlfrinnds. with or without tlrnir rnns1mt. please raiso your hands'! 
'.1. Will all thos11 marrkd or singln men who ask women (sometimes prostitutes) to 
perform fellatio on them, 
please, ... 

4. 
Will all thoso who have mistresses or engage in sex with someone other than their partner please ... 

5. 
Will all the professors and graduate students who practice birth control. pl1mse ... 

6. 
Will all those priests. married mun. and students who masturbate regularly, please ... 


Those who do their "sin­ning" privately arc not judged and punished. But those who identity them­selves as gay are supposed to be "sinning" in private, and they arc judged and punislwd accordingly. 
Shouldn't those listed abovn bn nxduded from Univnrsity lifo too'? They arc "acting" contrary to the teachings of the Catholic Church, acting out being more serious than "espous­ing." 
Notre Dame has become the Hypocritical Capitol of Catholicism -not Christianity, you note, which is tolerant, compassionate, loving, and truly inclusive. 
Nazis will attack a group because of'thcir identity, turning them into scape­goats, and making them wear triangles as a sign of their humiliation. 
In our·community ceme­teries there lie buried some Holy Cross priests who died from AIDS. Unlike the Prodigal Father of lhe Gospel, Notre Dame's behavior is like an unforgiv­ing curse on those beloved dead brothers. When will they ever learn? 
Donald W. Whipple, C.S.C. Class of '53 Cocoa Beach, Florida Ocroher, 20, 1999 
Let your voice be heard about abortion legislation 
Thn S1•natn plans lo vote soon on S. l fi92. thn Partial Birth i\bortion Ban which bans only tlm spncilic ab()r­tion procmlure where tlrn abortionist dnliwrs thn habv foct firsl !Paving the hcud i1; I.he womb, insnrts scissors into thP bark or tlrn nPck, 11.nd sucks olll the baby's 
brains. ' 
Speaking about tho enor­mous money anrl time !wing spnnl in tlw light against tho ban. fornwr abortionist, Eric llarrah. savs. "ll has noth­ing lo do w"ith tho woman's right to choosn or with pro­t.ncting the sanctity of' t.hn righL of ;1bortion. ft has Pv11rything t.o do with pro­lncting the sanctity of tlrn rulhwss or Urn ,tbortionist's wallet. This is tlrn only type of abortion procedure that dnes1i't cost them to get rid oftlm dead lmby. They actu­ally mako money." 
You may read all about it in an article in the Alberta Report, a Canadian on line magazine. The article is titled, "Aborted Fetuses Are Being Dissected Alive, llarwsted and Sold in Pieces to l'ud a Vast Research Entorprise." and it is located al: htt p://alhcrtareport. com/v,ilu1nc26/990823/story 1.ht111 I. 
Or you may call Life I )ynamics at l -800-401­6494 and requost a free video tape of an inu~rview with a woman who workPd inside a Planned Parenthood abortion clinic harvesting fetal body parts For resale to labs for resmu·ch. 
Or call the Anatomir, Gil't foundation directly at 1-800­300-5433 and request a fetal tissue price list. (Keep in mind that they may not give you a straight answer if you don't sound liko a genuine researcher.) 
Or simply do an Internet search on the words "fetal tissue" and spend a night reading about the things that our Nazi-like society is doing with aborted babies in the name of'scientifir progress." 
Once you are convinced that this procodure really is a "crime against humanity" as the t.orm was defined by lhA Nuremberg trials over 50 years ago, you may con­tact your senator at www. scnate.org or 1-202-224­3124 and ask him to vote to ban this procedure rather thun "following the orders" of the president, who promises to voto tho ban again. 
Shawn Loy Austin, Indiana Ocmber 17, I 999 

Worker empowerment is crucial for fair labor 
In 1911, 146 women died when a fire broke-out at the Triangle Shirtwaist Company in New York. On May 10, 1993, a fire started in a Bangkok toy factory. The main exit was locked, stairways col-Aaron Kreider lapsed under a _______ rush, people jumped out of Progressive windows and Student over 180 died. Alliance Sweatshops kill. 
If the adminis­tration of Notre Dame was deeply concerned about worker rights then they would nut have fought and squashed the groundskeeper's and cafeteria workers' attempt to union­ize in 1978. ff the administration cared more for workers than Notre Dame's image and bottom-line, then maybe Malloy would have appointed the most ardent campus supporters of worker rights to the anti-sweat­shop taskforce. But he did not. Maybe the administration would investigate. With the FIA, the public will not know whether a corporation ha~sweatshops or not. Monitoring reports are kept secret, with only an annual summary released. For any corporation to get expelled from the Fl.A for violations, or for any rule improvements (such as requiring full public disclosure, a living wage or women's rights) two-thirds of the corporate representatives must agree! Is it any wonder that no workers' organizations support the FLA? 
The administration has hired a multi-national corporation (PricewaterhouseCoopnr) to start monitoring factories. Most workers assume large multi-nationals are in league with their bosses (because most of them are), and do not trust them. lfwe wanted to empower workers we would use human rights, labor and religious organiza­tions that come from the workers' communities, to do all of our moni­
toring. Corporate monitoring 

':ot have sold the boo~st?re to~ bypasses grassroots organi-
Follett to reduce or ehm1­ ~  zations and disempowers  
nate "costly" workers'  .  workers.  
benefits. (Example; being  \,  About a dozen uni- 
able to send your chil­ '-..__  versities have com­ 
dren to Notre Dame at  mitted to full public  
extremely reduced  disclosure. Five of  
tuition.) Perhaps they  them did it  
would not be cur- because students  
rently considering  sat-in administra­ 
o~t-~ourcing ~usto­ tion buildings.  
~hal Jobs (agam try- Full public dis- 
mg to reduce  closure is a key  
wages and bene­ part of the pro­ 
fits).  gram to empow- 
Worker empow­ er workers  
erment is the goal  which is called  
of the anti-sweat­ the Worker  
shop movement.  Rights  
We want workers  Consortium  
to have enough  {WRC). The WHC  
power to be ab)e to.  was created by  
dem~~d and_w1n fa1r  anti-sweatshop  
conditions without  activists in consul- 
needing outside help.  --""--~--­ tation with workers  

The common occur­rence in the apparel industry of unsafe condi­tions, abuse, forced over­time. black lists, forced pregnancy tests and poverty wages show why worker empowerment is so critical. When examining the administration's anti-sweatshop efforts, one should ask whether ~hey ar~ empo_wering work­ers or trymg to kill the issue and cut their losses'? 
After sit-ins at Duke, Georgetown an~ l.J~' Madison, around March 11 Phil Km?ht, CEO of (we-pay-our­lndonesian-workers-25-cents-an­hour) Nike, wrote every university and college president urging him or her to)o!n the Fair Labor ~ssoc1at1on_ (Fl~-;-_i\ systP;m to mon­1tor producmg facihtws). I·our days laler, Notre Dame joined the FLA as a founding mfimber. With this kind of history and from analyzing the agreement, the anti-sweatshop movement has decided that the FlA 1s an atte_11;pt by ?orp~~ations and co-conspmng umvers1tws, to stop the movement dead in its tracks by agreeing to small improvemf)nts while covering up the existence of' lhe vast majority of' sweatshops. For instance the FLA does not requim a living wage. Its language actually forbids disclosing the locations of factories, while full public disclosure of facilities would be the best way to ensure that any sweatshop monitor­ing system is working, and would allow independent third parties to and shows far more 
promise in lighting 
sweatshops than the 
FIA. Already Brown 
University has joined the 
WHC and soon other 
schools will follow. Perhaps if we push hard enough, Notre Dame will be one. 
Now I'm not asking you to sit-in. But we need people to stand up for workers rights. We have to show the administration that students care about this issue. We neod your help collecting signatures, putting up posters. running information tables, leal1eting football gamos, writing lnt­ters to the editor, organizing and attending rallies, discussing with your friends and morn. Tonight at 7 p.m_. in 107 ()'Shaughnessy we're havmg a meeting to plan action. And after all our actions, if our administration still decides to patronize workers, support tho cor­porate-dominated-movemont-killing FLA. refuses to publicly disclose facilities and stalls on requiring a living wage -then maybe we will sit-in. The administration is scared to doath that Wt) might. 
Aaron Kreider is a graduate stu­dent and president ofThe Progn~ssive Student Alliance. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


OfHE page 12 BSERVER Tuesday, October 26, 1999 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Kowalczyk and co. try to stay a-'Live' 
By CHRISTOPHER SHIPLEY Scene Music Critic 
Modern bands have always had to carefully regulate the evolution of their music. With every new album. lis­teners expect a new sound; but they will divorce themselves from the group com­pletely if the change is too radical. This was the genius of Led Zeppelin, who changed styles so often and with such case that no one noticed. Hut this
. 
Live 


was before radio playlists and videos became the medium bv which most music is measured. Spiritual rock icons U2 received a great deal of criticism after releasing Zooropa and Pop, both of which experimented with a fusion of pop and teclmo elements. 
Which leads to Live. who has sold over 14 million records during the 1990s, but who finds itself looking for a new sound aftN its 1997 rPlease. the moody. experi­mental Secret Samadhi -a record which was nrnt with mixed reviews at best. 
Following the enormous surcess of 1994"s dramatic Throwing Copper, the change in format to heavier rock alienat­ed many of Live's fans. According to frontman Ed Kowalczyk. the title of Live's fourth album. The Distance to Here, can be interpreted both as a long spiritual and musical journey and also as the idea of never having left the safety of home. 
Live's new album is most noticeably a union of its first and third albums and combines longing lyrics describing the search for God with guitar riffs that stay at a breakneck pace for most of the album. 
Kowalczyk has not had such lyrical clarity since Live's 1991 debut album Mental Jewelry. His lyrics and vocals have matured and now pinpoint the con­fusion many people feel in their relation­ships with God. "I've been to pretty build­ings, all in search of you, I have lit all the candles, sat in all the pews ... Oh the dis­tance is not do-able in these bodies of clay my brother," he sings in "The Distance." 
Though the fusion of soul-searching lyrics and guitar walls does not always work, it clearly steers the band away from the anger in Samadhi to an earlier point in its musical lives when the ques­tions about faith, not the answers, were important. 

Gone forever is Live's ability to build pulsing melodies into a dizzying crescen­do of emotion and feeling. Instead, all of the emotion which Kowalczyk and com­pany wish to emit is spilled out by the end of the first refrain. The pace the band tries to keep over the remainder of each song is distracting. 
By the end of the album songs begin to run into one another, except for "They Stood Up For Love" and "Dance With You," a love song reminiscent of Samadhi's "Turn My Head." 
Tragically, it has also become increas­ingly clear that acoustic guitars will never be heard on another Live album again. 
The Distance to Ilere is a compilation of the innocence, sense of the dramatic and angst that as led Live to become one of the best soul-searching groups since U2, but still lacks the tenderness which Kowalcyzk wielded so effectively on earli­er albums. 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Temperamental 
Everything But the Girl 
Atlantic Recerds 
*** (out of five) 
By STUART SMITH Scene Music Critic 
It is fair to say that the problem with Everything But The Girl is that it doesn't know exactly where to place itself. Trying to fit someplace between straight electro and pop, the band is strangely dysfunctional. On its most recent release, Temperamental, few things shine brighter than this confusion. Ben Watts' authorship is certainly accomplished but lacks any serious progression from the band's ] 996 release. Watts is capable or pro­gramming virtually any musical style, from jungle lo hip-hop to house, but the album does not seri­ously delve into any of' these forms. Lyrically speaking, the album is for the most part a step back from Walking Wounded, and Tracy Thorns' vocal performance feels too restrained. 
All of this is not to suggest that Temperamental is not a good album. It is certainly a step ahead of what is traditionally found on the pop charts. But this is not quite enough lo quali­fy the album as anything more than standard. The standout song on the album is "Hatfield 1980," in which a ring of honesty can be found in the lyrics and singing which are well complimented by the melancholic hip-hop programming. 

CONCERT PREVIEW 


Where: The ware.heuse inside the sah1e building as 
the )WlacUsen @yster Bar When: friday, @ct. Z"f at CJ p.h1. Tickets: $!i, avaUable at the deer 
Must be at least 18 to enter. 
Ge te www.1nnphreys.cE>m fer mere infermati@n. 



O
THE 
Tuesday, October 26, 1999 BSERVER page 13 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Cornflake girl's lyrics alienate pop-hungry masses 
cases her 1'{reatest hits performed live. Tunes sur,h as By CEOHREY RAHlE 
1\/o orw has ever questioned her song­"Josephine" have such Sn·m· Musk ( 'riric 
wriling skills or musicianship, but pco­µromisc, but either fade pl!1 havn sometimes poked fun at lrnr musically or make noSW<'l't littlP Tori !\mos, whal an• 11wy "dnnp" lyrics. Dons Tori finally write a lyrical sonso (at least to going lo do with you? rncord that will b1~ accessible to the Urn shallow, macho i\ltl1011gh the marlm nrnn of tlw world pop-hungry masses? How docs the live male.) On "(;lory of the havn s<·orrwd lwr. .t\nrns maintains a album hold up in relation to its studio 80s" she eV('ll trios to use loyal following l'ro111 lwr olJsl'ssivn counwrparts'? Lim Austin Powers term f'l'mal1· !'ans and grnupi1\s ol' llw s<•nsi­Tlw first disc, "Orbiting." starts off "shag." Shn's desperate li\'P malP varif'ly. lfo<'.<·ntiy, tlw corn­strongly with the haunting and dark !'or someone to throw her rlakl' girl rnlPas1•cl a douhln disc; Llw sounds of "Bliss." The pulsing µiauo a bone. first dis(' is full of brand 1ww studio figurf' that anchors 1lrn trat".k is a grnat Tlw livn disc is pretty malt-rial whill' tlw S(:ro1HI dist: show-1110111<'11tu111 builder that eventually great, if you like falling loads to thn perfoct chorus. llowcver. asleep 15 minutes into a sonw of thP lyrics arc just annoying. concert. Studies show !l's understandable that she is not that nine out of' 10 doc­going t.o spell out everything in hnr tors prescribn the live
Teri )\mes 
songs, but what tho hell does this disc of "To Venus and nwan: "Father. I killed my monkey." Back" to insomnia What husin1•ss does she havn keeping a patients. Once again, the pet monkey in th1; house? Our friends disc starts off with the al tlw Animal Hights Bureau would grnat hit "Precious sure be happy lo find out about this, Things." but falters with wouldn't thP.y'? the loud "Cruel." 
The rnst of the disc is filled with Tori picks herself up peaks and valleys. Four of the songs, with the enjoyable ".Juarez," "Glory of the 80s," "Suede" "Cornflake Girl," but after and "Hiot Poof"' am horrible. There is that make sure you know no other word to describe them. The how to count sheep. The main problem with these lracks is the songs are not that bad, huge rol() <ilectronica plays in each of but not that great either. them. "Juarez" sounds more like "Hay The problem is Tori sud­of Light" by Madonna and Amos' dis­denly stops playing with torted voice on "Hiot Poor· is just plain the rest of the band and disgusting. takes on the crowd by herself. You 'II happy with this review, but something 
"Lust," by far strongest song on the probably wake up just in time to hear had to be said. She is a lovely pianist record, finds Amos blending a beautiful her rattle off some nonsense about a that can sometimes take even the man­melody with halfway normal lyrics. guy named "Mr. Zebra." Or maybe she liest man's breath away. But the lyrics, The piano during the transition section is talking to the animal -we all know the painful lyrics, drag the poor girl is simply breathtaking -Amos hits the how she keeps wild animals in the down. What to do with Tori? Lock her perfect chord at just the right time. Too house up in the zoo and come visit her along bad all of her songs aren't like that. Now Amos' loyal fans will not be with the monkeys and zebras. 


UPCOMING CONCERTS 
Umphrey•s NcGee 
Cheap Trick 
Elton John 
Bob Dylan Nr Bunale 
311 

Umphrey•s NcGee Live 
Nedeski, ltartin & Wood Robyn Hitchcock Save Ferris The Who & Eddie Vedder Kenny Wayne Shepard Chris Cornell John Scofield Wilco Countina Crows Rase A9ainst the Nachine S1:ina 
South Bend 
Nadison Oyster Bar Heartland Joyce Center 

Chicago 
Park West House of Blues Netro Nar1:yrs' Riviera Rhriera Metro. Metro House of Blues House of Blues Riviera Park West Riviera Araaon Ballroom Allstate Arena Chicaao Theatre 

Oct. to  
Nov. 5  
Nov. 13  
Toniaht Toniaht  •  
Oct. '.17  
Oct. iO  
Nov. 5  
·Nov.6  
-Nov.1O  
Nov. 12  
Nov. It•13  
Nov. 14  
Nov. 20  
Nov. 21  
Nov. 24  ..  
Nov.13 &24  
Nov. 26  
Dec. 3-4  

r 
I
I 
page 14 
I 
I 
I I 
.... 
I 
I VOLLEYBALL 
I I Kreherleadslrishto two Big East wins 
them in three games." By MATT OLIVA Last year the Irish dropped $pons W ricr a match to the Huskies during 
the season and then struggled 
The Notre Dame women's through a close match in the volleyball team capped off a Big East tournament before busy fall break with two con­prevailing for the win. 
ference wins on Friday and In the first game, the Irish Sunday. The Irish improved stretched their lead to 13-6, their Big East record to 6-0 by after breaking a 5-5 iie. defeating St. John's and However, Connecticut battled Connecticut to remain in first back to challenge the Irish at place in the conference. 13-9, before the Irish were 
After dropping consecutive able to prevail for the 15-9 matches for the first Lime this win. season. the Irish (12-6) got Game 2 saw the teams back on track on Friday deadlocked in a tie four differ­
against the Red Storm at the ent times. After being tied at Jovce Center. Notre Dame l 1, the Irish were finally able defeated the Red Storm 15-6, to pull away to win. Once 15-7, 15-6, dropping the visi­again in the final game the tor's record to 2-3 in the Big Irish pulled out to a lead and East. never looked back, giving 
Kristy Kreher led the Irish them the match victory and with 16 kills and a .577 hitting remaining perfect in the con­average. Three others finished ference. with double-digits in kills. "We were happy with our including Mary Leffers who performance from the week­finished perfectly offensively, end," Girton said. "Especially hitting .500 on 20 attempts for that both matches only went her 10 kills. Denise Boylan three games. However, during added 39 assists, while the week, the two games were Kreher contributed nine digs. a disappointment. 
In the first game of the The Irish began the break match the Irish scored nine by dropping an exhibition unanswered points to break a match to the United States 
6-6 tie and claim the victory. Professional Volleyball league. The second game followed the They then traveled to Utah to same pattern as the Irish take on BYU and the broke a 7-7 tie with eight University of Utah during the unanswered points for the vic­week. The Irish were not suc­
• 
tory. In the last game, Notre cessful in either of these Dame rushed out to a 4-0 lead matches, losing to the eighth and never looked back for the ranked Cougars in three eventual match victory. games and the Utes in four. 
On Sunday, the Irish defeat­"BYU is very good and we ed the visiting Connecticut played hard against them but Huskies 15-9, 15-11, 15-7. would have like to have better Notre Dame used double-dou­results," Girton said. "We felt 
bles from Kreher and Christi that we should have beaten Girton for its victory. Kreher Utah, and even though we are hit .700 with 15 kills and 11 doing really well in the con­digs, while Girton had 14 kills ference, we have missed and 10 digs. opportunities outside of it. 
"This match was revenge for Our performance against 
us," said Girton. "We had ranked teams and non-confer­trouble with them last year, so ence opponents is not as we it was nice to go out and beat would like it to be." 
CLASSIFIEDS 
The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, October 26, 1999 
NFL 

Steel Curtain stops Falcons 
the left side of the Falcons' in three home games -only
Associated Press 

offensive line to dump Christian after Chad Scott's 16-yard for a 1-yard loss on third down. interception return gave themPITTSBURGH The Falcons eschewed the a first down at the Atlanta 11
And Atlanta thought the 

short pass to run again on late in the first quarter. 
Braves' offense had disap­

fourth down, but Earl Holmes Two plays later. Richardpeared. 
and Huntley -once the backup for Pittsburgh's defense teed off Kirkland teamed to stop injured Falcons running back 
on the Falcons' depleted 

Oxendine inches short of the Jamal Anderson -scored on aoffense, sacking Chris Chandler goal line on fourth down. 13-yard swing pass fromseven times and preserving a The Steelers (4-3), unable to Kordell Stewart for a 7-0 lead13-9 victory with two goal-line get a first down that would run that was the Steelers' first instands in the final two minutes out the clock, then took a safety three home games this season.
Monday night. 

rather than punt out of the end Rookie Kris Brown laterThe Falcons trailed 13-0 and zone on fourth down to make it kicked field goals of 51 and 25 never threatened offensively 13-9. yards, making him 11-of-11 to
until Chandler hit Terance 

Chandler wasn't done, find­start his NFL career and help­
Mathis on a 5-yard scoring 

ing Tim Dwight for 27 yards to ing the Steelers end a four­pass with 3:39 to play, thon the Steelers' 5 with five sec­game home losing streak thatfound Mathis again on a 40­onds left. But, after spiking the was their longest since movingyard completion to the Steelers' ball to save time for one last into Three Rivers Stadium in7 following Jerome Bettis' fum­play, Chandler couldn't find an 1970.
ble. 

open Dwight over the middle The Falcons (1-6) haven'tBut after Ken Oxendine ran 6 on the final play. beaten the Steelers since thatyards to set up a second-and­Chandler finished 20-of-34 season, going 1-11 againstgoal at the 1, the Steelers· for 233 yards, while Mathis them and 0-5 in Three Rivers.
defense stacked up three suc­had 12 catches for 166 yards. Their 1-6 start is their secondcessive running plays. 

The Steelers weren't much in three seasons but one thatFullback Bob Christian was better olTensively than Atlanta, was totally unexpected coming stopped for no gain by Kevin scoring their only touchdown off their Super Bowl season aHenry on second down, and -and the first by their starters year ago. 
Levon Kirkland blew through 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL 

Cleaves to miss eight to IO weeks 
by the university. and their first Final Four in
Associated Press 

The surgery lasted about 90 20 years last season, is minutes and Cleaves was sent expected to be on crutchesEAST LANSING, Mich. 
home. He was awake and for three to four weeks. No
Michigan State guard resting comfortably, sports matter how quickly heMateen Cleaves, the only information director John returns, it will take him a

returning All-America from Lewandowski said. while longer to get in gamelast season, suffered a stress Cleaves likely won't play shape, Izzo said. 

fracture in his right foot and 

until shortly before the "J don't think anybody
will be out eight to 10 weeks, 

Spartans begin the Big Ten comes back after four, six,coach Tom Izzo announced 
season, Jan. 5 against Penn eight, 10 weeks without miss­Monday. 
State. He likely will miss ing a beat," he said.
Cleaves underwent a bone games against North Doctors said Cleaves proba­graft and had a pin inserted Carolina, Kansas and Arizona bly injured the foot about

during surgery Monday 

in December. The Spartans three weeks ago and it gotevening, Dr. Herbert Ross play Kentucky in 8 1/2 weeks, progressively worse. He com­said. 
on Dec. 23. plained Sunday about it being "The surgery couldn't have 
Cleaves, who led the sore and went to the doctor gone more perfectly," Ross 
Spartans to a 33-5 record Monday, Izzo said. 
said in a statement released 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at che Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the righr to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
STUDENTS WANTED! Alum. SELL & BUY GA FOOTBALL TICK­Two Navy and BC GAs: owned 2 sty. 5bdrm 2bath new car­ETS 243-2770 
NOTICES  WANTED  FOR RENT  pet, kit. appl., security, furnace, roof. Huge yd., 1 blk. N. of club 23.  277-6619  I sell two G.A  Navy tix. Call  
Browse icpt.com for Springbreak  $1125/ inc. utilities.  -also 4/5 bdrm  FOR SALE  2437401  
HOUSE OF FRANCIS RELIGIOUS GOODS 'JO<. ',  "2000". ALL destinations offered.Trip Participants, Student  ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  2 blks from campus $800. more info call 2,1!9-4365.  for  Navy & BCtix  
...  The largest selection of Icon's in the Midwest.Come and visit our out­standing selection!  Orgs & Campus Sales Reps want­ed.Fabulous parties.hotels & prices. Call Inter-Campus 800-327-6013  ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 243-0658  FOR SALE  Best Prices AM -232-2378 PM -288-2726  PERSONAL FAX IT FAST!!!  
Call Fred@ 219-233-2523.  THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space  Spring Break Specials!Bahamas  ND football !ix for sale. AM -232-2378  Sending & Receiving at  
Located across from Memorial  ...ACT NOW!CALL FOR THE  available for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms wi1h private baths, $80­ Party Cruise 5 Days $279! Includes Meals!  PM -288-2726  THE COPY SHOP Lafortune Student Center  
Hospital, house behind Kagel's  BEST SPRING BREAK  $115, Middlebury. 30 miles from  Awesome  I NEED GA TlXS ALL HOME  Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1  
Flower Shop,111 E. Navarre St.  PRICES!SOUTH PADRE,CAN­ campus. Toll Road Exit 11107, 1 ·  Beaches,Nightlife!Cancun &  GAMES.2726551  FAX IT FAST!!!  
CUN,JAMAICA,BAHAMAS,ACA­ 800-418-9487  Jamaica 7 Nights From $3991  
PULCO,FLORIDA & MARDI GRAS.REPS NEEDED ... TRAVEL  5/6 BDRM HOMES."00·01YR 272­ Florida $129!springbreaktravel.com  BUYING and SELLING ND FOOT­BALL TICKETS.  Spring Break 2000 Meals.  Free Trips &  
THE COPY SHOP Lafortune Student Center  FREE.EARN$$$ DISCOUNTS FOR 6+.  6551  1-800-678-6386  GREAT PRICES. CALL 289·8048  Jamaica.Cancun,Bahamas,Barbad os,Florida,Padre.Book now for Free  
PHONE 631-COPY www.CopyShopND.com  800·838-8203  NICE FURNISHED HOMES FOR NOW OR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR  FOR SALE N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS  Meals & 2 Free Trips.Book before Dec. 17 for LOWER PRICES!!  
Store Hours  2773097  FOR SALE  CALL 271-9412  1800-426-7710  
Mon-Thur: 7:30am-M1dnight Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm  WWW. LEJSURETOURS.COM  HOUSES HOUSES HOUSES  N.D. FOOTBALL TIX CALL 271-9412  WANTED: 4 Tenn. Tix  www.sunsplashtours.com  
Sat: Noon-6:00pm  312-951-5008  ---Don't miss--­ 
Sun: Noon-Midnight  DOMUS PROPERTIES HAVE  THE O'NEILL BROTHERS  
..  Loving NO-SMC couple wishes to adopt.  AVAILABLE 5,6,7,8 & 10-BDRM HOUSES FOR THE  FOR SALE  Tenn/BC/Pitt tix 6073367218  TONIGHT in concert .  
LOST & FOUND Found on Howard Street, 1-2 years ago, 1 damaged grey slide carousel with religious arVsites slides from  Will provide a lifetime of laughter.love.devotion and opportu­nities 800·484-4699 code 0019 To our 4am inquirer: all info kept in  '00-01 SCHOOL YEAR. ONLY 15 LEFT. CALL 274-1501 OR 234-2436, ASK FOR KRAMER FOR SHOWING. 4-6 student rental houses. Lots of extras. Huge Party Room.  N.D. FOOTBALL TIX CALL 271-9412 TICKETS  Bruce Springsteen tix for sale in Indy on Nov. 10. $130/pair. 233-6080 ext. 301 · Mike  7pm at Washington Hall On Dueling Pianos Playing and singing songs Tickets half price for ND/SMC stu­dents at the door-$5. Also performing: JUSTIN DUNN  
Europe/Israel,+ personal pictures.Contact me at 284-5552.  total confidence.Please call back anytime.Our prayers are with you  Washer/Dryer, etc. Dave 291-2209.  WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT­BALL TICKETS  ND student needs Navy tickets for friends! Please call Vince 243-9361  on guitar  
271-1526  __Stop by tonight! __  

• 

Tuesday, October 26, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
Golfer Stewart dies in South Dakota plane crash 
ghostly journey halfway across Everyone aboard was killed. took off from Orlando, Fla. top 30 on the PGA Tour's money
As.ociated Press 
the country Monday, its windows The flight plan said two The chartered, twin-engine list. 
MINA, S.D. 

A Learjet carrying champi(ln golfor Payno Stewart and at leasL four other people llew a iced over and its occupants apparently incapacitated, before spiraling nose first into a grassy field. 
crewmembers and three passen­gers were on the jet, but lhere were reports a sixth person boarded the plane just before it 
Internationa_l Summer Service Learning Program '"...,:.;~t.Jubilee Year 2000 
0Dmbodl• Chlle  louador  1I lelYedor  
Haiti  Ho11du1caI  

 IG1t Rfrloc:a  

ISSLP is an 8-week community based summer service-learning course where students work in one of nine countries around the world with organizations and ministries meeting the needs of the poor and marginalized. Includes: Travel Expenses, $1,700 Tuition Scholarship, 3.0 credit Theology course, Preparation & Re-entry Classes. 
Qualified candidates must have strong conversational skills for Spanish speaking sites and previous experience in service-learning. 
Information Sessions? 

Applications? 
Questions? 
tl--tiJ 
CENTER f'OR 

SOCIAL CONCERNS 
At the Center for Social Concerns Thursday, October 28, 7:00 pm Wednesday, November 10, 7:00 pm Tuesday, November 23, 7:00 pm 
Available at the Center for Social Concerns Due December 1 Due November 1 (Students Studying Abroad Spring 2000) 
Call Rachel Tomas Morgan at 631-5293 


Urban Plunge is a 48-hour experiential learning course set in urban communities, where students visit with individuals, agencies and parishes that are st~ving t~. meet the 1!1any needs ofthe socially and econom1cally d1senfranch1sed. 

= When? 
:;.) Where? 
The 'Plunge' will occur within the week of January 2 through 8, 2000. (The .specific 48-hour period is set by each site.) 
There are currently almost 50 sites confirmed across the 
country and more are in the works. If you will be anywhere 
near a city over the holidays, you can toke the 'Plunge.' 
iti!L nc,t sure6?... iben, come to ~n 
1Dt<5W~tie>D ~~ssie>D! 
,~~ 
-at the Center for Social Concerns-
Wednesday, October 27, 
9:00 PM 
Questions? Call Jay Caponigro, 631-5293. 
Lear 35 may have suddenly lost 
cabin pressure soon after taking 
off for Dallas, government offi­
cials said. Air traffic controllers 
couldn't raise anyone by radio. 
Fighter jets were sent after the 
plane and followed it for much 
uf its flight but were unable t(I 
help. The pilots drew close and 
noticed no structural damage 
but were unable to see into tl1e 
Learjet because its windows 
were frosted over, indicating the 
lcmperature inside was well 
below freezing. 

Set apparently on autopilot, the plane cruised 1.400 miles straight up the nation's midsec­tion, across hall' a dmr.en states. Authorities say I.he planP was ''porpoising," l'luciuating between 22,000 and 51,000 feet. It presumably ran out of fuel some four hours after it took off. 
"The plane had pretty much nosed straight into the ground," said Lesley Braun, who lives two miles from the South Dakota crash site. 
Stewart's wife, Tracey, an Australian nativc, tried to reach lHir husband on his cellular phone whilA sht) followed tlrn drama on television, her brothflr said. 
"She was trying to ring him on his mobile and couldn't raiso him. It's just rnully bad for my sister to bP watching it on CNN, knowing that it was her husband on board," Mikp Ferguson, a professional golfor, told tlw Australian Broadcasting Corp. radio_. · 
Stewart. 42. was one of Lim most recognizable players in golf because he wore traditional knickers and a tam-o'-shantnr hal. lie won 18 tournaments, including three major champi­onships. Jn .June, he won his soc-• ond U.S. Open. prevailing over Phil Mickelson with an astonish­ing 15-foot putt on the last hole. 
"This is a trnnrnndous loss for the entire golfing community and all uf sports. 111) will always be remembered as a very special competitor and one who con­tributed enormously to the posi­tive image of professional golf," PGA Tour Commissioner Tim Finchem said. 
President Clinton said: "I am profoundly sorry for the loss of Payne Stewart, who has had such a remarkable career and impact on his sport and a remarkable resurgence in the last couple of years." 
Stewart was on his way to Texas, first for a meeting on a proposed golf course near Dallas, then on to the Tour Championship in Houston for the 
UoJmlityo( 
Nott.Dame 
lnimlad.onal 
Bady Program 
111 
He attended Southern 
Methodist University in Dallas 
and had friends in the area. 
Also killed were Stewart's 
agents, Hobert Fraley and Van 
Ardan, and the two pilots, iden­
tified as Michael Kling, 43, and 
Stephanie Bellegarrigue, 27. The 

jet was operated by Sunjet 
Aviation Inc. 
Jack Nicklaus said Monday 
that he feared ono of his golf 
course designers, Bruce 
Borland. 40. also •died in the 
crash. 
Borland"s wife, Kate, said she 
contacted the privatl' jet. termi­
nal Monday ,dlrwnoon and spoke 
to an employen who had greeted 
her husband and confirmod he 
intnndP.d to PP.'\~fl tlw !light. 
Authorliitis·r,ou Id not confirm 
that Borland was aboard and 
officials at the crash sitn said 
they could not. tell exactly how 
many people had I.icon killed. 
Six National Transportation 

Safety Board investigators 
walkml through I.he crash site 
Monday night. Thny did a curso• 
ry inspection of the wn'ckagn, lit 
by ge,wrator-powerPd spot­
lights. Bob Francis. NTSB vicP 

chairman. declined to comment 
and said thn invnstigators would 
he back Tuesday morning. 

Planes that f1y above 12,000 !'net arn pressurizNI, bPcause the air at altitudPs above that is too thin to brnatlw. ff a plarw loses prnssurn, those aboard could slowly losP 1·onsrious1wss or, if an aircraft brokP a door or .window seal. pnrish in seconds 
f'rom lack of' oxygPn. 
Once reaching a cruising alli­

tudt1, pilots often switch on tlrn 
autopilot. If they pass out. tlw 
planP could rnntinuP on until it 
ran out of fuel. 
Cov. Bill Janklow. who was at tlw crash silt\ said ii appeared Stewart's L11a1;jet ran out of' fuel lrncauso thorn was no lirn. lie said the plarrn and tlw bodics were oblitnratPd. 
lnstancies in which a civilian jet lost pressure in flight arP 11xtrnmely rare. 
Investigators think the plane may have lost pressure. 
The last communicalion from Stewart's jet was over Gainesville, Fla.. said Tony Molinaro, an FM spokesman in Chir.ago. The crew did not respond to repeated inquiries from air traffic controll!irs, thn FM said. 
A government source said tho plane should havn turned left at Gainesville on a course for Dallas. It made only a partial turn before heading in a straight lino toward South Dakota. 

INNSBRUCK, AUSTRIA 
2000-2001 Academic Year Informational Meeting 
Come and moot Professor Gernot Giirtler, Direct.or of the Innsbruck Program 
Tuesday, Oct.ober 26, 1999 4:16P.M. ll9 Debartolo 


page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, October 26, 1999 
Associaced Press 
NEW YORK 

No need to remind Chipper Jones, Andy Pettitte or anyone else on the Atlanta Rraves und New York Yankees. 
Both teams know the World Series has looked this one­sided before. 
Down 0-2 after a bumbling effort in a 7-2 loss, the Braves brushed up on their batting and history during Monday's workout at Yankee Stadium. 
In particu­lar, they're hoping for a repeat perfor­mance of the 1996 World Series. That October, the Yankees dropped the first two games at home before rallying to beat Atlanta four straight. 
"We know it can be done," said Jones, Atlanta's third baseman. "Not many people are giving us a chance right now. 
"But I'll _tell you what. When we won the first two games here in 1996, no one gave them a chance, either," he said. "And they came back against our staff when they were in their prime. It's defi­nitely a steep hill to climb, but it's possible." 
Halfway to their second con­secutive title and 25th overall, the Yankees have outpitched the club with the most vaunted rotation in the majors. Orlando "El Duque" Hernandez held the Braves to one hit for seven innings in the opener, then David Cone did the exact same thing in Game 2 Sunday night. 
Now Pettitte will try to dupli­cate those results when he starts for New York in Game 3 Tuesday night. The left-hander is plenty aware of the past. 
In 1996, the Braves pounded him in a 12-1 romp in the opener at Yankee Stadium. And when Greg Maddux defeated Jimmy Key 4-0 in Game 2, it capped an amazing five-game run in which the Braves had outscored oppo­nents 48-2 in the postseason. 
But in his next outing, Pettitte pitched the game of his life, outdueling John Smoltz 1­0 at Atlanta to give the Yankees a 3-2 edge. 
"That was '96. The past doesn't mean much around here now," Peititte said. 
Here's another tidbit: Never 

in their postseason history 
have the Braves been climinat­

e d in a bcst-of-7 series in 
under six games. 
"Any team that has good 
pitching like we have, we can 
always reel off three in a row," 

Braves manager Bobby Cox said. "We've always been able to do something like that. 
"It's no different now," he 

said. "But we've got to be hit­
ting the ball a little better, too. 
They have great pitching." 
Recycle The Observer 

WORLD SERIES 
Memories of 1996 remain with Braves 
The Braves won two of three at Yankee Stadium in July dur­ing interlcague play. Of course, based on what everyone saw at Turner Field this weekend, it's hard to imagine Atlanta will last long unless it gi>ts a lot better, a lot sooner in all areas. 
Built on pitching throughout the decade, the Braves again hope to take control on the mound. 
As it stands, Tom Glavine is scheduled to start Game 3. Scratched from pitching the opener because of the flu, he's 
lost 5-to-7 
pounds since
"'Not many people are 
then and giving us a chance right looked pale 
now. But I'll tell you Monday. 
"I don't
what. When we won 
know how mythe first two games here stamina's 
in I 996, no one gave going to be, to 
be honest
them a charice to come 
with you. I 
back either." think if it was a summer­time game
Chipper Jones 
and it was
Braves third baseman 
going to be 
100 degrees, 
I'd be a whole lot more concerned about it than I would be tomorrow, where it's going to be cool," he said. "That obviously will help a whole lot." 
If Glavine cannot pitch, Smoltz will take his place. 
As if it did not have enough things already in its favor, New York also gets to use the desig­nated hitter for the games at Yankee Stadium. 
That means either Darryl Strawberry or Chili Davis will be in the lineup Tuesday night, both swinging potent bats. The Braves plan on using Jose Hernandez as their DH and, with Pettitte pitching, probably will have Eddie Perez, Bret Boone and Walt Weiss back in the lineup after a one-game benching. 
. "The demeanor is still the same, the mindset is still the same," Jones said. "We've played well here in the past. Hopefully, we can draw on that and use it to our advantage. 
"It's going to be tough. But we've still got life. We've still got some fight in us." 
The Yankees are aware of 
that. And of history, too. 
"It'll benefit us," first base­man Tino Martinez said. "We'll be focused and guard against being complacent." 
STl}DY IN 
OXFO.RD 
Live with British 
students in the very 
center as a Registered 
Visiting Student of 
a medieval college 
with university privileges. 
Summer and graduate study 
Washington International Studies Council 
214 Massachusetts Avenue, N.E. Washington, D.C. 20002 Phone Number: (202) 547-3275 Free Telephone: (800) 323-WISC Facimile: (202) 547-1470 E-mail: wisc@erols.com www.studyabroad.com/wisc 


T1.1esday, October 26, 1999 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

This Week in Campus Minfstry 
Continuing through November l 103 Hesburgh Library, 112 Badin Hall Freshman Retreat #25 (Nov. 5-6) Sign-Up 
Targeted Dorms: Alumni, Breen-Phillips, Dillon, Howard, 
Keough, Lyons, McGlinn, Pasquerilla West, and Sorin 
Tuesday, October 26, 7:00 pm Badin Hall Chapel Campus Bible Study 
Wednesday, October 27. 8:00 pm 
Wilson Commons Graduate Student Bible Study Group 
Wednesday, October 27 10:00-10:30 pm Walsh Hall Chapel Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
A spirit-filled, student-led power half hour of prayer and music for students of all Christian faith traditions. 
Thursday, October 28. 7;00-8:00 pm Reeker's Hospitality Room Africentric Spirituality: Freshman Intro Reception 
Saturday. October 30, 8:30 pm 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart Folk Choir Concert for Missions featuring the Notre Dame Handbell Choir 
Monday. November l All Saints Day 
Tuesday. November 2. Keenan-Stanford Chapel 
·-
Dia de las Muertos 


The Folk Choir Concert for the Missions 
Saturday, October 30th 
( Navy/Parent's Weekend) 
7:30pm • Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
A comribution will be collected to benefit the Missions ofthe Congregation ofHoly Cross 

CN's IO Reasons 
(in no particular order): 
Ui'S beffer ihan a power nap: 
Resrlaf's presence with an open mind and an open heart. 
li's Hke aettina emalll from 
Why read the
God: Experience God; wtid as you would a letter from your · ·e , · , to 
Bible everyday?
ponder what God is revilt:n to you. 
11's more essent•a1 1han breakfast and yummier than a late-niaht snack: 
Begin your day with a focus and perspective; End your day with a prayer and3e)ion. 
11's 1hJ or.iginal ..Life9s LHC:le lnstruc1ion Book": 
~ Jwill guideyou when you feel lost or confused. 
Can•1 find beffer drama 1han in 1his all-1ime bes1seller: 
See yourself in stories, parables, and miracles an5e )omforted that you are not alone. 
And y~ \~ouaht your famllly was already big: 
Feel connected to ~trand tradition of people whose faith is now your own. 
Th•nk of ff as THE book of famous Cl~1~s: Give yourself knowledge to use God's words as instruments of peace, larmony, and justice. 
EYen before Coyey, God was the original lead,a;srp aura: 
Inspire yourself to be a prophet, a leader, a healer, a disciple<5C7ist. 
I'• sY'IN-proof: Plan9u\self on a foundation that will withstand any outside1 force. 
EHmilD.:~e guess work: Know each day that God loves you, and that you are created in the image of God. 
Do you have a faith question you' ve been wanting to ask? Ask us@ ministry.l@nd.edu or drop it off at 112 Badin. Chances are you' re not the onl~C<2:1e wondering 
about issues of faith. 
-Good Stuff to Do 
DE Tuesday, November 2 
A traditional Mexican celebration
LOS

DIA 
honoring the deceased 
MUERTOS 
1pm Meet at LaFortune Lounge• l:15pm Proc~ion to Keenan-Stanford Chapel • Food and Drink will foilow • 
Prayer. Pralise. Nuslic. 
Ewery Wednesday lljght: 

10pm lnte~ 
t1ffl1iill 
[lli\lJer

Walsh Hall Chapel m;,sht: 
Tuesday, October 26, 1999

WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Streiff er, Brown honored 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame senior women's soccer players Kara Brown and Jenny Streiffer have been named Big East Confe­r c n c e players of the week. Brown w a s named de fen­

Streiffer 

s i V e player of the week, while Streiffer was named ofTensive player of the week along with Syracuse's Jenna Szyluk. 
Brown's solid play in the back help hold Connecticut Lo 10 shots in 111 minutes of the rloublc overtime win. She also helped the Irish limit Miami to just two shots. Brown also recorded her seventh and eighth assist of the season ,vith one against both tlH' Huskies and the Hurricanes. The defensive player-of-the-week honor is the second for Brown this season and the third weekly honor in her career. 
Streiffer also was named 

offensive player of the week 
twice as a sophomore 
inl997 and was a two-time 
rookie-of-the-week selec­
tion in 1996. 
Streiffrr scored a hat 

trick and added an assist 
for a seven-point perfor­
mance against Miami on 
Sunday, the most single­
game points by a Notre 
Dame player in 1999. Sho 
optrned the scoring with the 
first of her three goals in 
the 12th minute to become 
the fourth player in NCAA 
history to reach 60 goals 
and 60 assists in a career. 
Streiffer joins Notre Dame's 
Cindy Daws, North 
Carolina's Mia Hamm and 
UC Santa Barbara's Carin 
Jennings as the only players 
to score at least 60 goals 
and assist on at least 60 
goals during their careers. 
With three goals and an 

assist against Miami, 
Streiffer upped her career 
totals to 62 goals and 65 
assists for 189 points, tying 
her with Daws for second 
most points in Irish history 
and moving her one point 
within Gerardo's record of 
190 points. 

CANCUN & MAZATLAN $499&uP SKI ·CRESTED BUTTE $329 
1·800-SURFS·UP
www.studentex ress.com 

USC 
continued from page 28 
had even spoiled the last game of Lou lloltz's coaching career. with a 27-20 victory over the Irish in 1996. 
The victory was redemption for a· fan base that had seen its team's season marred by off-the­field incidents and last­minute losses. 
It was redemption for several players, including Jabari HolJoway, David Miller and Ron Israel, whose kev contributions late in th~ game helped the Irish toward victory. 
Holloway. who saw his playing time decrease in the past few weeks for missing practice time on Tuesdays and Thursdays due to a conflict with an engineering lab, respond­ed with the game-win­ning touchdown. The Irish tight end dove on a loose ball in the end zone with 2:40 left in the game, after Jarious Jackson was stripped or the ball on the 2-yard line. 
"Jarious made an 
excellent scramble," 
Hollway said of Jackson's 
5-yard run prior to the 
recovery. "He came to the 
goal line, I saw that he 
lost the ball and I just 
tried to get it. It was a 
mad scramble for the 
hall. There was a lot of 
punching and kicking but 
I tell on the ball and that 
was it." 
Israel, best known 
among Irish faithful for a 
late hit against Michigan 
that resulted in a 15-yard 
penalty that led to the 
decisive Wolverine touch­
down. turned thr tide in 
the third quarter. 
With the Trojans on the 
Irish 38-yard line, Israel 
came off the corner on a 
blitz, knocking the ball 
out of quarterback Mike 
Van Raaphorst's hands. 
Linebacker Anthony 
Den man recovered the 
hall. On the ensuing 
drive, the Irish scored a 
touchdown to narrow the 
Trojans lead to 24-16. 
"It's been a long time 
[since Michigan]." Israel 
said. "We're pretty much past that now. We look forward. There's nothing 
you .~an  do about the  
past.  
Miller,  Sanson's  

replacement, overcame a blocked field goal and extra point to give the Irish their first µoints of the game, converting a 37-yard field goal with 
l:17 left in the first half. The sophomore added a 33-yard field goal mid­way through the fourth quarter to cut. the lead to 24-19. 
"It was tough [missing the kicks] especially because it was my first field goal," Miller said. "Sanson came up to me and told me to keep my head in it and I hit the next two. You always want to make your field goals, especia.lly because the fans around hen• are tough on kickers." 
Nobodv knows that bet­ter than Sanson. Especially against USC. 
Three years ago, Sanson attempted an extra point that would have put the Irish ahead by nine points with four minutes left in the game against the Trojans. He missed wide to tlrn left. The Trojans scored on their next possession, converted the two-point attempt to tie the~ game and went on to beat the Irish 27-20 in overtime. It was Lou lloltz's last game as head coach. 

On his home turf two years ago, Sanson missed three of four field goals in the lrish's 20-17 loss. 
A year ago, playing without Jackson, the Irish suffered a 10-0 loss in Los Angeles. 
The defeat ended any hopes of a bowl appear­ance. 
This ynar, as Sanson said. was redemption. 
"I told myself I'd never watch this game again if we lost today," Sanson said following the game. "I didn't want to be µart of the first class to not get a win against them [USCI." 
"Thev [USC] will never, ever be in my thoughts again." he added. "I never have to play ttwm again. I never have to look at them again. The only thing I get to do is come back and watch Notre Uamc beat them every year." 


This Wednesd~y! Fieldhouse Mall., -4 -6.pm 

rain: La.Fortune Ballroom., 5 -7pm 
www.nd.edu/~sub 

ENGINEERING STUDENTS! 
WE'VE GoT THE Toots You NEED • • • 
e 

These & other great engineering titles now available. 
Stock up now! 
HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: 631·6316 • www.ndbaokstore.com 
' 
an r:.partner of r:.follett.com. 
J,jlW .I. USED COLLEQE Tl!X'TllOOKS 
\ 


Tuesday, October 26, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
CLUB SPORTS 
Men's rowing competes in Boston 
Spcd:11 to The Observer 
Autumn IPavns lining Boston's Cliarhis BiVPr lhtmPd tlw largost l11•ad racP in tlw world. Urn !lead oftlw Charh•s. lkspitc th1~ absPnl'.P of its No. 1 stroko, out with mononurlnosis, tlw 11w11's rowing rlub plat·l'cl a vory tTsp1·nnhlf' 41 st among 80 kams in Llw Club J\ ran•. 
ThP duh's 17-rninuw. :{4-st'c• ond limn was not. far oil' llw win­ning linw post1\d hy llarvard, whit'l1 was I <>:20. It was a tight rac•p that round IO SPC'OJHIS SPp­arating tlw Irish from jumping i11lo th!' top :w. ThP luck or tlw Irish was missing in tlw l'ours mm. as tlwir boat was not dPliv­<'r"d a'11c1 Ilw tnam had l.o bor­rnw a rlPcidPdly IPssPr boat. 
Tlw rigor brok«' with ovt>r two mill's IPl't in tlw ran·. allowing only thniP row,•rs ti, race. IIPl'using to quit. tlw <'iub still f"i11islH•d allt'ad of two otlwr boats. 
. Tlrti bowling t·!ub Look to tho 
lanes in Urn Brunswick Great Lakes Tournament in Lake Zurich, Ill. this past w1mkend. Placing 4:ith of 52 tnarns, the dub dmnonstrated a blend of 11xperience and youth. 
Veterans Ann D1iitch and Darrnn Kraft avnraged 195 and 170 rospnrtively. while l'resh­man .Jason Pawlak and Dan Buttke show promise for the future. 
Kevin McFadden, Kevin (~ortknn, and Brian Ciortkcu completed the scoring l'or the Irish. Next week t.he club will be at llw Sycamorn Classic in Terra I IautP, Ind. 
. Tlw sailing club usnd novico sailors in the Cedarf'est Hegatta at Michigan State this wnnkond. Tlw low finish of I 7th plac·e was nxp,~ctPd, but the experience gained by tlrn club's newer mmnbors should provu l.mneli­cial for ruture MCSA competi­tion. 

We didn't become Fortune" magazine's America's Most Admired Company* by accepting the status quo. We got there by hiring and training graduates with the confidence and courage to think in innovative and revolutionary ways. 
No other corporation can match the diversity of opportunities at GE. Because we have small company attitudes with large company strengths, we set no limits, no boundaries. You can move from industry to industry, discipline to discipline, and never leave GE. 
We're a leader in every business we compete in, and we're looking for leaders like Thanh who will take us even further. Start your career by visiting our website now. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
Learn about us at :·.. · , ',*. 
. . . ~ 
www.gecaree:ns.com · 
GE Aircralt Engines• GE Appliances• GE Capital Services• GE Corporate Research and Development• GE Industrial Systems GE Information Services· GE Lighting• GE Medical Systems• GE Plastics• GE Power Systems• GE Supply• GE Transportation Systems• NBC *3/1/99 
CROSS COUNTRY 
Shay paces Irish in Blooinington 
. Men take 6th, women finish 22nd 
By KATHLEEN O'BRlEN 
Assistant Sports Editor 
The men's cross country tmtm Inapt into the top ranks of tlw nation's teams with a sixth p!arn finish at tlw Pm-National NCAA meet Oct. If,. h~d by junior Hyan Shay's l'ourth-plac,: showing. 
"I think ii' w1~ can just all stay healthy, we're going to tum a lot of heads at nationals," said Shay. "If we can run well at districts, that will give us an edge." 
The women·s team suf'fcrnd from the absnnce or senior J\11-Arrnirican JoAnna Deeter dun to a sprairwd ankle and the sub-par porformancPs . of several other runners, 
Tho wonwn aim1\d 1hr a top-10 lin­ish. hut wound up finishing 22nd ol' :B teams in tlrn meet. Thn low placing by the Irish may affect thoir chances of qualifying for the NCJ\A champi­onships in November. 
"It kills us if' we don't get an auto­matic berth," said women's head coach Tim Connolly. "We just got beat by 21 other teams. Wo didn't b,~at anybody of conseq1w11cn." 
Tim mnn's squad moved up from 17th to 10th place in the rankings fol­lowing its strong p11rf'ormancc at. the Pre-Nationals. Notrn Dame bPat sev­enth-ranked BYU and eighth-ranked Northern Arizona in the race. Thn only teams to finish ahead of' Notrn Dame were Stanford, Colorado, Arizona. Big East rival Gnorgctown and Arizona State. 
The Irish will take a third shot at beating Georgetown Friday in Uw Big East Championships. 
"Unfortunately, tlrny've beaten us twice," said men's head coach Jon Piano. "Mayb11 the third time will lw a charm." 
Shay has beim the number Oll!l run­ner for the Irish all season long, llo ran the 8K ment in 24 minutes, 12 seconds, finishing only six seconds behind winner Steve Fein of Oregon. 
"I was plnas11d, but I just know that by thn limn nationals come, I'm going to b1-1 a lot more conlidnnt," said Shay, "A coupln of the guys up tlrnrn had pretty good kicks, but I'm pretty confi­dent that my stamina will help wlrnn we add the extra mile. I l'nel I'm a pretty strong contender for the nation­al championship. I have to have that mindset rigbt now." 
Pianc also exprnssnd his confidm1cn in Shay's capability to make his mark at nationals. 
"I think ho's going to be oVPn bntt,~r ovN I0.000 nrntPrs," said l'ia,w, ''I certainly think lw has a shot at bPing 
in  lhn  top  IO  and  bt>ing  an  All­ 
A11rnrica11."  ..,.  
Sophomore LukP Watson  was tlw  

second linishnr for tlw Irish. placing 22nd in 24:40. Follow sophomore Marc Striowski was the third Irish lin­islrnr in 25:20, winding up in 68th plac11. Seniors Scan McManus and Hyan Maxwell took 7:ith and 87th places, respcctivnly, to round out the scoring contingnnl for tlw Irish. 
Poor performance forced tlrn womPn's squad out of tho top 25 for the first lime this season. SPnior Alison Klnmnrnr was thn leading run­ner for Notrc Danw. Slw placed 44th in the 5K me1~t al 18:07 -a minul!\ behind champion Kara WlwnlPr of' Colorado. 
Senior Patti Hice. l'rnshman Jn1111ifor Handley, junior Erin Olson and sonior Erin Luby wcro the next four mem­bers of tlrn Irish squad to finish. 
"Wo just ran very poorly. Obviously. it was a pretty bad race," said Connelly. "We still havn a lot of poten­tial with or without .loi\nna." 
The Pre-National moot was lwld on the Indiana Uniwirsity cross country course in Bloomington. the same coursB on which t.hn NCAA champi­onships will be run. 

Please Come To GE Night 
October 26th 7:30 -9:30 pm 

Alumni -Senior Club (GE interviewi,ngOct. 27-28th, stop /Jy and /,earn about careerc1JfJartunities-bringyourresume, dress is camal and r~freshments fJTovided) 
Plt·ase r.onjim1 d,.tt!S & limrs with your Carl'fT Plrumunt Ofjice for any last minute changes. 

We bring good things to life. 
page 20 

HOCKEY 

Notre Dame loses three games to drop to 1-5 
By BILL HART 
Associare Sporrs Editor 

After heading to Denver for the Icebreaker Tournament, the Irish headed to Michigan for a two-game series with confer­ence rival Ferris State in their four games on the road in just over a week. 
\Vhile the team did earn its 

first win of tlrn sPason, it proved 
to be the only victory of the road 
trip. 
In the first college hockey game in the Magness Arena, Notre Dame skated against Providence in the opening round. While il was the Friars' first game of' the season, their strong goaltending mlmaged to hold down the Irish offense enough to gain a 2-1 win. 
The two teams battled to a draw until midway through the second period, when the Friars scored twice within a 29-second span. The Irish scored their only goal at 11 minutes, 21 seconds, when senior defenseman Tyson Fraser scored on a 5-3 power­play opportunity. But that 11urry of scoring -three goals in less than two minutes -proved to be the only offensive output of the night. 
The Irish played the final eight minutes without starting captain Ben Simon. after he was hit from behind into the boards by Friar defenseman Mike Farrell. 
In the consolation game the next day, however, Notre Dame found solace with its first win of the regular season, a 4-0 rout of Union College. 
The Irish scored the winning goal at the 10:24 mark of the opening period, when [nman slapped a shot past the goal­tender at the top of the crease area. The game stayed at 1-0 until the final minute of the sec­ond period, when Inman scored again off a pass from senior right wing Joe Dusbabek, who collectt,d the puck from behind thi> Union net. 
Midway through the third period. the Irish added to their lead ¼ith a pair of goals. Dunlop took a pass l'rom Carlson, skated down the right hoards before passing it to junior left wing Matt van Arkel. who shot the puck inside the left post at the 
9:49 mark. 
Two minutfis later, sophomore center Brad Henning scored a power-play goal, his first of the season, off of' passes from Dunlop and senior defenseman Sean Molina. 
After allowing ~als in his previous three starts. lrish goal­tender Jeremiah Kirnento picked up his first career shutout, recording 1 Y saves while stop­ping all four of Union's power play chances. 
"I think he's been real solid," Dunlop said about Kimento's 

THE 27th 
ANNUAL 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
Madrigal Dinners 
Fri. & Sat., Dec. 3 & 4 at 7 pm Sun., Dec. 5 at 2 & 7 pm Regina North Lounge 
This festive holiday event features a menu fitfor aking plus entertainment by colorfully-attired jesters, musicians, and singers from the Saint Mary's­
Notre Dame Collegiate Choir. 
For tickets call: 219/284-4778 
play. "We've given up a couple 
of goals, but those were mainly 
because of defensive break­
downs as a team. Be's helped us 
out, and has made quite a few 
key saves." 
After splitting the Icebreaker Tournament. the Irish returned to the Midwest for a two-game series against conference rival Ferris State. With a week's time to rest, hopes wen> high that the Irish would be able to keep their momentum against the Bulldogs, who were swept by Northern Michigan in their past two games. But the J-<'SU squad swept the Irish in both games, 4-1, 4-2. 
After a scoreless opening peri­od in the first game, the Bulldogs drew first blood off a power-play goal at the 4:11 mark of the second period. Five minutes laler. Carlson evened the score off a pass by Fraser. 
The teams remained tied until the final period, when the FSU offense scored two power-play goals in a three minute span. In the closing minutes, Bulldog right wing Rob Lightfoot sealed the victory with the only even­strength goal of the game. 
In the second game, Ferris State wasted no time taking the lead, as center Brian McCullough won the opening faceolT and slapped the puck to the upper left corner, just past Kimento's reach. 
The Bulldogs added three more goals, two in the first peri­od and one in the second before they were silenced. 
The Irish avoided the shutout early into the third period, when Inman tipped in a shot from the right point from defenseman Nathan Borega. Senior left wing Andy Jurkowski capped off tlrn scoring for both teams late in the game, scoring on a high shot off a pass from freshman right wing Michael Chin. 
Despite the tough road trip, Dunlop feels the [rish are on the right track to regaining their earlier momentum. 
"I just think we've got to keep doing what we've been doing," Dunlop said. 
"We've been on a bit of a los­ing streak, but we've just got to put our ear to the grindstone and keep on working." 
With the series, Notre Dame's record falls to 0-4 in the CCIIA and 1-5 overall. 
EARN UP TO $1000 *This Semester* By Posting Your Lecture Notes Online 
Register on-line now: 
@www.Study24-7.com (888) 728-7247 FREE CLASS NOTES! 
STUDY24-7.COM 
-t!J­
SAINT 
MARY'S 

COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, IN 

-


KEVIN DALUMffhe Observer Dan Carlson skates past a Michigan defender during a recent game. The Irish lost three games over fall break -including two to CCHA rival Ferris State. 
CHOOSING THE RIGHT RETIREMENT COMPANY MAiffiS ALL THE DIFFERENCE. 
For over 80 years, TIAA-CREF has been the leading retirement company on America's campuses. But experience is just one reason why so many smart investors trust us with their financial future. Here are a few more: 
Superior strength 
With over $250 billion in assets under man­agement, TIAA-CREF is the world's largest retirement organization -and among the most solid. It's one of the reasons why Morningstar says, "TIAA-CREF sets the standard in the financial services industry."1 
Solid, long-t~m performance 
We seek out long-term opportunities that other companies, in pursuit of quick gains, often miss. Though past performance can't guarantee future results, this patient philos­ophy has proven extremely rewarding. 
ii Ensuring the future for those" who shape it."" 

Surprisingly low expenses 
TIAA-CREF's operating costs are among the lowest in the insurance and mutual fund industries.2 So more ofyour money goes where it should -toward ensuring your future. 
Easy diversification 
We offer a wide variety of expertly 
managed investment options to help build your assets. We make it simple, too, with 
stock, bon<l, money market, real estate, 
an<l guaranteed options. 
Unrivaled service 

We believe that our service distinguishes 
us from every other retirement company. 
In the most recent Dalbar survey, 
TIAA-CREF ranks tops in participation satisfaction.3 Call today to find out how TIAA­
CREF can help you build the financial future you want and deserve. 
To find out more -give us a call. or visit our website 
I 800 842-2776 www.tiaa-cref.org 

IJJ,,,.11Ul!J,•l,v Vllndhk Anm11iWJ/UJt, 6/30/99. 2~'tanilim1 d R1i11rj I,r.11ua11« &Jl/19 Aiwly.,i.1, 1999; and Lipper AnaJytical Services, Inc., liPf'('l'•Dirt.-1,w'Atw./yll~"tJI ~1o1, 1999 (qu.irtuly). ·'DALMR. lnc., 1997 a}iwJC11,1ribr,ti.un Emlknct &ling.,. For mon,: ("1,1rnple1c Lnforma.tion, including ckr-,gcs and expenses, call 1800 s.42-2733. ic~. ,5.500, for CRJo:I' anJ TIM !«:al fa1a Attf.lllftl pn;spi:ctuseb, Ri:.ul thl!m cart!fully befort! you invest or send money. tfAA-CREF lndiviclwl anJ Institutional Service, dia1riourrs CRJ{F certifKates and int-crests in the TL:\A Real 
8199 
------·­

Tuesday, October 26, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
-~ 

WOMEN'S SOCCER 
SMC set for MIM tournament 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
Sports Writer 
The Belles am set to con­tend for a slot in postseason play as they bogin the MIAA tournament today. 
Thry played six games ovN brnak. f'inishing just trnch!r .500 in the conference al 2-3. 
On Oct. 1(,. tlw Belles dtd'natnd Alma 2-0 in an away match. 
"I think its one of' the besl gamns we'vo played," Coach Jason Milligan said. 
Tlrn Bellns had a total of 15 shots on goal. Senior co­captain Katy Baq{er led her t,mm with five shots. In the first half. one of' her shots rnsultnd in an unassisted goal. 
Adrian · Kirby, Tia Kappahahn, Mary Campe and I.aura J>aulnn nach had two shnts. Lynn Taylor and Liz Coley each added one att,impl. 
Taylor's shot rnsulted in the -otlrnr goal for Saint Mary's, also in the first half. Paulcn assisted Taylor un that goal. 
"Against Alma we really nwved ttrn ball around well." Milligan said. 
Belles' goalie Brie G1Jrshirk shut out Alma with 6 saves. 
i\l homn on Oct. 17, the B(dles fell to Washington Un ivcrsity in a non-confcr­cncn match. 
The Bellns lost 3-1 in an away game against Hope College on Oct. 20. 
"On Wednnsday we really didn't play well," Milligan said. "It was a game we expected to win. Hope camo 
out and got a couple of early 
goals." 

All of' Hope's goals were 
scored in the first half. 
''They came out quickly 
and were fired up," Milligan 
said. "It definitely wasn't one 
of our favorite games." 
Saint Mary's had 14 shots on goal. Freshman Heather Muth scored for the Belles in the second half with an assist from s!lnior co-captain Erin McCabi'. 
Gershick had six saves against llope. 
Saint Mary's crushed Defiance 5-0 on Oct 23. in their the final regular season game for the Bdles. 
The Belles had 30 shots on goal. Barger led her team with seven attempts, one goal and four assists. 
"It was senior day and we wanted all of our seniors to srorr." Milligan said. "Katie [Barger!. Hachel [Egger], Liz [Coley) scored, and Erin I McCabe l got an assist." 
Saint Mary's soccer team went 2-4 overall and 2-3 in conference play over fall break. 
Egger and McCabe fol­lowed Barger with five shots each. Egger, a crucial defen­sive asset for the Belles, scored her second goal of the season. 
Taylor and Muth shot four times each. 
Senior Liz Coley had two shots and scored Urn first goal two minutes into the first half. Paulen, Kirby. and Katy Hobinson each had a shot. Kirby scored the fourth goal for the Belles, and Robinson: normally a stop­pm·, scored the fifth. 
"As a last game [for the seniors] it was f'un and sµc­ressfu l whcih is what all games should be," Barger said. "It was a good game." 
Saint Marv's allowed Defiance only one shot on Gershick. Gershick made the save and held Defiance scoreless against the Belles and winless for the season. 
This season Barger made the MIAA's list of League Leaders for her goal assists. Barger is tied for fourth place with five assists this season_ 
"That's exciting for me," Barger said. "My primary role as center mid is to dis­tribute the ball ... It shows that I'm doing my job." _ 
Saint Mary's soccer team is now 9-5-2 overall and 3-4­1 in conference play. 
"It's been a lot of fun and an honor to play with such talented teammates," Gershick said. 
The Belles begin tourna­ment action today at 3 p.m. at Olivet College. 
"During the regular season [Saint Mary's loss to Olivet] was 3-0," Milligan said. "They have a couple of play­ers who are pretty good. If we shut them down and fin­ish our [scoring] opportuni­ties we should walk away and play Calvin on Thursday. But it's going to be a hard fought game that'll be decided by a goal or two." 
The winner of the Saint Mary's-Olivet game will play at Calvin College on Thursday at 3 pm. 
"We're pumped for this game," Gershick said. "We're ready. We're in it to win it." 
M. Soccer 
continued from page 24 
the win. 

"We're still suffering from not having a second forward and goal scorer on the team, but we knew that coming into the sea­son," said Berticelli. "We've done a very good job making a lot of improvements during the season and have been able to score more goals against (:Onference opponents like Villanova. We've done a good job compensating." 
The Irish then played host to the Scarlet Knights of Rutgers on OcL 17. Despite outshooting Rutgers 16-8, the Irish were unable to come up with a goal and lost in a 1-0 decision. The Scarlet Knights poked in the game-winning goal in the first half after a scramble in front of the net. The Irish found their biggest challenge in Hutger's goalkeeper Jon Conway. Recording his sixth shutout or the season, Conway tallied six saves on the game. 
Notre Dame recorded its sec­ond straight loss on Oct. 20 when it traveled to West Virginia. It took only 12 minutes for the Mountaineers to come up with a goal from freshman forward Guido Cristofori_ 
One goal proved to be enough for the Mountaineers as they handed the Irish their second 1-0 loss of the week. 
The Irish had a chance to tie the game with less than a minute remaining in the second half, when the offense came up with a blast on goal that ricocheted off 
the post. leaving the Irish score­
less. 
"We had a chance to tie it late 
in the game -we took a shot on 
an open goal that hit the cross­
bar." said Berticelli. "Our 
defense also had a bit of a break­
down in the game." 
The Irish were back on the road to finish off their break week series with a game against St. John's on Saturday. Losing 4­1 to the nationally-ranked pow­erhouse, the Irish had troulJle putting the ball in the goal. Getting off only three shots on goal, the Irish were unable to upset the Hod Storm. 
"As far as the St. John's game, we're still starting five or six freshman every game and we played on astroturf -something we're not used to," said Berticelli. "The final score wasn't really indicative of the game. IL was really a 1-0 game until real­ly late in the second half when we moved players up to try and tie the game." 
The Irish ended the week with an overall record of 8-7-2 and are currently 4-4-1 in the Big East conference. They have only two regular season games remaining on the schedule. Because of the losses last week, the team faces a must-win situa­tion against conference rivals Georgetown and Seton Hall in order to earn a spot in the Big East tournament. 
"We're all in the same situa­tion. Georgetown and Seton Hall have to win as well," said Berticelli. "These are not just big games to us, they're very impor­tant games lo them too. All three teams face a do-or-die situation." 
.. 

Got Sports? Call 1-4543 
.. 

Oetv-e14-11f Tk fl,tf-~t Rzza/ §©Gl~ ~uJ@ @ . ©@~ lf[!]@~cflru~Hg  
12 Anytime Anytime you call between you call between 5:30 & 7:00, 10:30-12:59 the price of yourthe price of yourI 2 large 1 large 1 topping .6 topping pizzas pizza is the time you call.is the time you call. * Plus tax* Plus tax  
r ---LunchSpecial ­--7 : Small 1 Topping 1 ND store I 2 Cans of Coca-Cola product I Saint Mary's/ 1L­ss 99_____ .:,. ______ '...1 North v· 111 age M 11a271-1177 271-PAPA  



... 
.. 
" 
page 22 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Observer Staff Report 
The Notre Dame women's soc­cer team bounced back from a 4-2 loss to No. 1 Santa Clara to defeat No. 8 Connecticut 2-1 in double overtime and Miami 7-1. 
The Bronco's used four goals in 9 minutes, 19 seconds to jump o .o a 4-0 lead in the first half'. 
The Irish responded in the second half with two goals but could not mount a comeback against the talented Broncos. Anne Makinen and Jen Grubb scored for the Irish. 
Against, Big East Rival Connecticut. Notre Dame senior Jenny Heft scored in the 15th minute to give the Irish a 1-0 lead. 
The Irish would hold that lead until the 89th minute when Huskie freshman Sarah Popper scored her first career game to send the game into overtime. 
Makinen scored in the 112th to give the Big East Mid-Atlantic Division champion Irish a 2-1 win over the Big East Northeastern Division Champion Huskies. 
On Su,,.;av, the Irish defeated the ivtiami ·Hurricanes in the final regular season home game of the year. 
Heft scored the game-winner in the 18th minute to give her 
74  career  goals  and  break  
Monica  
Senior  midfielder  Jenny  

Streiffer also reached a career milestone against Miami. Streiffer opened the scoring in the 12th minute to give her 60 career goals to go with her 65 career assists. 
Streiffer joins Notre Dame's Cindy Dawes, North Carolina's Mia Hamm and UC Santa Barbara's Carin Jennings as the only four players in history to reach the 60-60 mark for a career. 
Streiffer added two more goals to increase her career points total to 189 -second behind Gerardo's 190 on the Irish all-time points list. 
STUDENT EMPLOYMENT Af""tHE HUDDLE 
Work one or two days a week. Shifts available include: 
9am-J lam, JJam-Jpm, JOpm-Midnight, 
Midnight-2am. Other sh(fts are also available Incentives for working after 10pm Call 1-6902 or stop by The Huddle to sign up. 

The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, October 26, 1999 
The Observer Sports Department is looking to hire copy editors. Call 631-4543 for more information. This is a paid position. 

For ti~kel info~mation c~nlacl 219/28 4 4 6 2 6 
the Saini Mary sBox Office at ­
"There is a place set for you at this table. 

Welcome to the dialogue." 
EXPLORING RELIGIOUS LIFE RETREAT NOVEMBER 12-14 
For information or to register, contact: 
S.Joann Plumpe, OP (517) 266-3533 
@ Adrian Dominican Sisters 
Adplumpe@aol.com Visit our website: www.op.org/adrian 
Tuesday, October 26, 1999 The Observer . TODAY page 23 

FOURTH AND INCHES 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS  35  "Oh:, for Pete's  69  Slash  
1  Contralto's  10  Filly's brother  
counterpart  36  Elsie's greeting  11  Adam and Mae  
e Richard of  39  Absolutely best  
10 14 16 1e 11 1s 20  "Pretty Woman• Arm or leg Consumer Part of 1.C.U. Race track Castle feature Shuttle scheduler 50 minutes with  43 44 45 46 49 so 53  part Old spy org. Result of melting Gown fabric Troop formation Hardy heroine Bewildered PBS Emmy winner  DOWN 1 Resting places 2 Swiss stream a Stops on the I.R.T. 4 Wraps (up) s Once around the world s Kind of pig  
a psychiatrist,  55  Plotzed  1  Butt  
e.g.  58  African member  e Latvia's capital  
21  Yeses  of OPEC  e Summers in  


23 Ready for 63 Time to make a. 
overtime 
move 10 25 Clear, as a disk 64 Fruit or 11 211 "Joe· mincemeat, e.g. 
30 Honors 86 Duet tool 12 33 Horne to 9,000 &1 "I had no !" 13 Maine 68 Any song by the 
collegians Supremes 1e 
22 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 24 

0 L G ----1-.......-.-1 .26 

I-:-+--~-+--~-+-+--+--::::::;::+_=-.,.\=-~"!I-~-'!'II : 
29 
31 
32 
34 
36 
..,,,.+,;;.,..+-,,+=t-:-t 
E 37
0 5 

C U -+-+-+-+-R L E 38 
I R E __.__.__._~ T E S 
France Antisocial types Former Mrs. Trump Flag places Not at all excited Disturb High-quality Part of 
sweeping 
Puzzle by Elizabeth C. Gorski
efforts? 
40 Roth (investment choice) Skater Starbuck 
~~~~!:t 
41 Zip
Chemical ending 
42 Grind, so to speakWhen repeated, enthusiastic 46 Wrote 
Squeeze (out) 47 Like some yogurt
Passe Underground 48 The Louis whose type mother was 
Marie Antoinette 
Predators on mice 50 Second photo in a testimonial ad
End drawer in a till s1 Hose shade 
52  Signal to pull  59  Big fashion  
over  magazine  
54  Radiant  60  Clears (of)  
56  "Ulysses," for one  81  "What's me?"  for  
57  Queen of  82  Ripens  
Carthage  65  Sushi order  

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jaclyn Smith, Lauren Tewes, Hillary Clinton, Pat Sajak, Cary El wes, ·Bob Hoskins 
Happy Birthday: Although com­promise will be necessary this year, you may not be all that willing to accommodate others. Step back and take a more objective look at whatev­er situation you face and you will stand a much better chance of making the right choices. This is not necessari­ly a year of growth but instead one of nurturing what you already have. Your numbers: 15, 28, 31, 33, 45, 47 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Re­evaluate your motives. 'lou may be with someone for the wrong reasons. You'll have to think twice before you say something to your lover that might lead to discord and possible estrangement. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Rela­tives and friends will put demands on you that will be difficult to live up to. Be reasonable, but let them know just how much you can and can't do for them.OOO 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will probably overreact to personal problems. Don't_ let your emohonal upset interfere with your professional objectives. Someone you work with has a personal interest in you. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Put your energy to good use today. Get busy making the necessary changes in your domestic scene. Make adjust­ments to offset the dilemmas that have been bothering you. 0000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't spend too much on children or enter­tainment. Trying to impress others by being extravagant will backfire on you. It is best to avoid situations that could lead to arguments. 00 
EUGENIA LAST 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): lJun"t spread vourseli too thin. Ii you have more than one love interest, it's time to make a decision. If you can't make up your mind, at least be honest about your situation. \'our partnt>rs deserve to know. 00000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You should get out with colleagues or clients and find out what they're like away from work. The new friend­.. ships \'OU form will be lasting and help you establish yourself a little bet­ter at work. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Put 
your energy into beautification: Cos­
metic makeovers or a new outfit that 
will give you a different image will 
lift your spirits and your self-esteem. 
Now it's time to meet new people. 
000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
You'll have trouble trying to get along 
with family members. Go about your 
business and don't rock the boat. You 
should put a little extra effort into 
vour household chores. 000 
, CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
You will have the energy to clear up 
that mound of paperwork tha\'s fac­
ing you. Someone you like will be 
receptive and actively seeking your 
presence. 00000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Monevmaking endeavors are appar­
ent. Be creative when dealing with 
your personal financial budget. You 
can stretch your money further than 
you thought. 00 
. PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You 
can expect to have some changes with 
regard to vour personal relationships. 
Don't be too quick to blame someo1w 
else when the problem may be your 
own. It may be time for a realit\' 
check. 0000 

Birthday Baby: You are a high achiever in all 1hat Y'."1 do. You won't.mince words and aren't likely to take on something that 1sn t gomg to_beneht you. You're a strong competitor and extremely talented at tummg things around. 
You see, you assess, you do. . (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadv1ce.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
.. 

~ 1999 Lni,·Nsal Prt•ss S\'ndkate 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
AFRICAN DANCE 
Introduction to African Dance -All Levels Welcome 
Classes will meet: Sundays 7:00-8:30, Activity Room 2 Rolfs Sports Recreation Center October 31 -December 5 $1 0 Registration Fee Register in Advance @ RecSports 

Information Meeting: 7:00pm, Tuesday, October 26
RecSports Office Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 
Actvity Room 2 
1-6100 • http://www.nd.edu/-recsport 
Rolfs S orts Recreation Center 
J 


.. 
I' 
•I 
I I 
f 
r 
' 
• 

Race to the top 
The men's cross country team ran to a sixth place finish at the Pre-Nationals in Bloomington, Ind. on Oct. I 6. Junior Ryan Shay finished
PORTS 
fourth to lead the squad. 
page 19 

O
THE page 24 BSERVER Tuesday, October 26, 1999 

FOOTBALL 

Driver suspended for season by Student Affairs 
"It came 
Driver remains on scholarship most of all Tony Driver. It's Driver has shamd time at tail­By MIKE CONNOLlY 
out that I and still attends the University, unfortunate, but that's what it back with sophomore TonyAssociare Sports Ediror 
had stolen a Davie told thr Associated Press. is." Visher and freshman Julius purse or Driver's suspension is only for Although he won't be suiting Jones. Against USC and· Arizona 
llead coach Bob Davie something," lhc fall and he is expected to up for the lrish for the rest ol' the State he was used primarily in announcrd Friday that Irish Driver said. rejoin the team for spring prac­season, Driver told WNDU that short yardage situations. lie junior tailback Tony Driver is "I didn't tice, Davie said in an AP report. he still plans on attending the gained 187 yards on four carries suspended from the football want every­The suspension was the ruling games -as a student. · for the Irish this season. He also team for the rest of th<: season one to think of the Office of Student Affairs "If I can't be on the field, I will scored four touchdowns. by the Office of Student Affairs. that I was Driver and the football coaching staff, be in the stands," he said. "Two Driver's main contribution this 
Driver confirmed reports that type of according to Davie. degrees with no shirt on and season has been on special Sunday in an interview with person. I violated one of Notre "It's a Student Affairs deci­gloves -I am just going to havn teams. The junior is on every WNDU that his suspension was Dame's parietals rules and that sion," Davie said to the AP. "I a good time with the Notre Dame team and contributnd three tack­due to a violation of parietals. resulted in my suspension." feel bad for a lot of people, bUl studenls." les in 1999. 
FOOTBALL 

Victory over USC redeems Notre Dame 
By TIM CASEY Sports Wrirer 
Jim Sanson laid beneath a pile of dirty, drained, drenched players late in the fourth quar­ter of the l\otre Dame-USC 

.... game. They were fighting, scratching and clawing for every opportunity to strip the ball away from him. 
Sanson wasn't about to let go of the ball. 
The highly criticized senior placekicer had booted a kickoff to the end zone to USC's kick returner H. Jay Soward. Soward caught the ball at the goal line, brought it back 36 yards and ­trying to avoid would-be tack­lers -fumbled the football. 
Arguably the best return man in the country fumbled while the most highly criticized of Irish players dove on the loose ball. 
A week after hearing a chorus of boos from the 80,012 in NotrP Dame Stadium for miss­ing a 33-yard field goal, Sanson was now on the other end of the 

....... 
spectrum. For the first time in a 
while, the crowd cheered for 
Sanson. 
The ultimate goat had become the hero. 
"That's redemption," Sanson said following Notre Dame's 25­24 victory. 
Redemption. There's not a more appropriate word to

-describe the feelings of Notre Dame players, coaches and fans following last Saturday's victo­ry. 
The victory was redemption for a Notre Dame program that lost its previous three meetings with USC. Twice, in 1996 and again last season, the Irish were 

..... denied Bowl Championship
' 
Series appearances after losing to the Trojans in their final reg­ular season game. The Trojans 
see FOOTBALL/page 18 

• 

KEVIN DALUM/The Observer 

Irish freshman Julius Jones leaps over Trojan cornerback Kevin Arbet. Jones tallied 35 yards on 10 carries in Notre Dame's 25-24 victory . 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish go 1-3 in conference over break 
By KERRY SMITH 
Sports W ricer 
The Big East proved to be big trouble for the Irish last week, as the soccer squad dropped thren straight conference games, while managing to post only one win. 
The Irish peaked early with a record­
breaking victory over the Villanova Wildcats 
on Oct. 15. The 5-0 win 
marks the largest con­ference victory for the Irish since they joined the Big East in 1995. 
The victory against the 2-10-0 Wildcats brought the Irish unbeaten streak to a season-high six games, but it did not last long as the Irish quickly slid into a three game losing streak, falling to 11th­ranked Rutgers, West Virginia and 13th­ranked St. John's. 
While the losses 
Soccer results Notre Dame 5 Villanova O 
Notre Dame 0 Rutgers 1 
Notre Dame O 
WeSt Virginia 1 Notre Dame 1 St. John's 4 

potentially damage Notre Dame's hopes for a tournament berth, the Irish have not lost confidence in their ability to reach the post­season. 
"We played very well against Hutgers and West Virginia, who are ranked one and two in the conference," head coach Mike Berticelli said. "The team hasn't lost any confidence. We know what we have to do to get into the Big East tournament. We feel like we can still play with these teams." 
The Irish offense came on the field in full force to begin its four-game series during fall break against the Wildcats, as five different players contributed to the scoring effort. Rafael Garcia and Alan Lyskawa posted their second goals of the season for the squad, as Connor LaRosc, Matt Rosso and Peter Bandera recorded their first career goals in 
see M. SOCCER/page 21 

at Oliver vs. Miami vs. Georgetown, Cross Country
SPORTS s~ Today, 3 p.m. .~~ Thursday, 7:05 p'.m. ~ Friday, 7:30 p.m. e MIAA Championships, 
at Kalamazoo College Cross Country Saturday, 11 a.111.
ATA 

at Wisconsin, Big East Championships, Volleyhall Midwest Invitational vs. Navy,
Wednesday, 7:30 p.m. · New York 
e 

Friday, 10 a.m. Oct. 29-30 Saturday, 1 :30 p.m. 
GLANCE ~ t~ 


