Dow Tops 10,000 
Strong Theory, Weak Substance 

U).000 

WWW. N D.EDU/-OBSERVER 
¦ CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Senators, rectors, Kirk debate parietals 
VOL XXXII NO. 114 
Bank fee 
•
increases 


irk leaders 
By FINN l'RF.SSLY :\~""·m1 ~l"'"' l'.Jiwr 
Starling rn·xl fall. slwll'nts with Key Bank l'iw1·king affounls will notice a llu•p1:-1lollar irn-r1•as1· in llwir 11wnlhly !"P1•s, an·ording to KPn BaiPrl. vicP pn·sic!Prll ol' l'ulilif 1!1•lalions at K1•y Ilank. 
Tiu• thn•1•-dollar rnai11l1\1iann• fon, which 1'1illows a slrParnlining and rPalig11111P11t ol' sPrvit-P diargPs, has alrP,uly lwPn put into dfoct nation­\\ icl1•, but implPml'nlation at lhn l.ahirl.11111• Stud1•11l CPnl<'r branch has b1•1•11 dl'fi•rT«-d until tlw lwginning ol' I Iii• 111•xl aradl'mil' yPar in i\ugust. llaiNI said. 
··111 1111' 1·asn or Nolrl' Dam<i. WP didn't. want lo d1a11gl' in tlw middl11 of !Iii' sdrnol yPar." hi' 11xplairwd. "Tlu•n• an' ollu•r rollPgns and u11ivnr­sili1·s Ilmt llw hank has brandws and /\T\ls al. hut as far as a waivnr 011 this f'PP, for tlH• tinlP lwing, lhosn arn dont' on a 1·as1'-by-rasn basis." 
Stud"11 t U11 ion pr1• sid <Hl l I'elo r CPsaro l'XprPSSl'd strong discontnnt n•garding tlw diargP, as well as Koy Hank's virtual "111011opoly" in campus hankin!-(. 
"TIH' hop1• is lhal tlw students rl'!urning in tlw fall will say that lhis is ridirulous." said l'ntnr Cnsaro. "Why is K1•y Bank t!Vl'l1 in 11.aFortunnl if l.lu·•y'n• g;iing lo dtargt! the studnnts llm•1• dollars a month?" 
Tlw rnsidPnw life mmmittef' of' the Studl'nf SPnalP will pres1ml a rnsolu­1.ion WPd1wsclay calling for incrnasflcl carnpus prns1111c·11 of' llw Notn' Dame FmlPral C:rPdit Union. lw said. 
Whi!P Llw rnsolulion has bmm in tho works for· so11w tirnP. C!!saro said that lw hopns this lalPsl Key Bank a1111ou 11cPnwnt will garnnr enough s11pp1Jrt to pass tlm rnsolulion. 

Group defeats 
'liquid lunch' proposal as well 
By TIM LOGAN 
News Editor 
The Campus Life Council focused 011 proposnd parietals rnvisioAs in its final nw11ting llf' tlw 1998-99 term, debating punishmPnts !'or lirsHinw violators and policiPs during hreaks, l'ootball Saturdays and .lunior Parents' Wcieknnd. 
/\ molion to "re-examine llrn severity of' currnnt consequences for first-time violalors" was forwardc)d by community lifo commiltl~c chair Matt Mamak, but lat<'r withdrawn after criticis.m by rec­tors and some of the students on the council who assorted that tlrn problem lies more in pnrceplion. · 
Tlw concern on the part of' the rcsolu­lion's proponents lay in llrn possibility of' first-time violators lwing expelled from campus residences. 
"There am instances or first-lime vio­1ato rs being removed from their dorms," said r.1amak. "That doesn't happen often, but it's what concerned us most -that it does happen." 
Maniak distributed a Student Senatr, survey reporting that 78.5 percent of students feel the current parietals policy is too scvern. 
Hectors and assistant vice prnsident for Hnsidonce Life Bill Kirk argued that llrn disagrnemnnt oviw parietals punish­nrnnts comes from a misperception of lho disciplinary system. 
"I think this comes from a misconcep­tion of what goes on," said Brothr.r Jerome Meyer, rnctor of Knott llall. "Tim number of people I send over to Hesiclencc Life is miniscule compared llw number of students we deal with in the hall." 
Kirk also noted that, in many instances, dorm rectors arc the 
strongest advocates of lenient punish­ments for parietals violators, and that changing du Lac to lighten punishments for certain offenses could restrict rec­tors' advocacy. Further, he said, it would not have the desired effect. 
"I don't think this resolution really would succeed in doing what it intends to do," he said. "This addresses percep­tion, not reality. It doesn't fix the per­ception." 
Mamak agreed to withdraw the reso­lution and pledged to work on the prob­lems of perceptions of parietals punish­ment as next year's chief of staff for stu­
dent  government's  Office  of  the  
President.  
"Eight out of 10 students have a  per­ 

ception that something is wrong with 

Tuesday 
MARCH 30, 
1999 


this," Mamak said. "Timm am a lot of' different misperccplions." 
The CLC passed resolutions rncom­mcnding that parintals be ended at 9 
a.m. on football Saturdays and be cxl!rnded to 2 a.m. on Junior Parnnts' Weekend and that lhe Of'ficn of' Stu~lent Activities standardize ruins rngarding 24-hour space during brnaks. Each of' these motions passed without opposi­tion. 
In other CLC news: 
• Mnmbers soundly rejected a resolu­tion that would have asknd tlrn Of'fice of Student /\ctivities to open the Alumni/Senior Club on Fridays for 
see CLC / page 4 

Cornell: Catholic Worker movement still calls for justice 
By ERICA THESING gcous and timid. A«ociare News Fdiror "You wouldn't dare lie to Dorothy Day. She'd cut 

Dorothy Day, foundr,r of The Catholic Worker, would instruct students to work for justice through social action, said Tom Cornell in his lecture Monday. 
Cornell. a peace activist and writer, worked with 
Day for 27 yPars at Tho Catholic Worker newspaper in New York City. llo said that Day felt each per­son has a rolo in the social justice movcnwnl. 
"She would encouragr, you to take some risks," he said. "I don't know how you Hrfl going lo integral!' !social work into your lifol, but I can 

tell you that you havo lo... Day 
Cornell said that the most impor­tant thing Day taught him was that the lives of the poor must be experienced, not just studied. 
"You haVf: to oxporinncl! pPrsonally and clirt!ctly tho lives of the poor people before you can begin to talk about them," he said. 
Calling Day a "study in contradictions," Cornell said that she could be both fierce and gentle, both coura­you off at the knees," he said. "On the otlrnr hand, she was incredibly gentle." 
Cornell explained that her gentleness wasn't limited to the beggars and other poor peopln she nncoun­terod. lfo shared accounts of Day comforting hurt people wherever she went. 
"Shn could be incredibly maternal. rnotlwrly, sof't. kind." he said. "She had a unique combination of tal­ents, yns, but on the other hand she was very ordi­nary.... She was a mothnr and a woman and that's the way she wanted to Im known." 
/\!though she was a leader of a largo movnmnnl involved in large-scale activiti11s, Day didn't likn to b1\ in thn spotlight, Cornell said. 
'"Dorothy never enjoyed lrnrsnlf' so much as wlrnn she was with other women that didn't know she was some famous personality," he said. 
Cornell explained that instead of focusing on the grand activities of' The Catholic Worker. Day ,~mpha­siznd the little things. 
"As she aged, Dorothy understood Urn little way. 
see DAY/ page 4 


page 2 The Observer• INSIDE Tuesday, March 30, 1999 
¦ INSIDE COLUMN 
Growing 


Shadovvs 

Spring is here. The vernal equinox has come and gone. The snow is finally gone, possibly fur good this time. People are starting to wear shorts and sandals. f. risbees are tlying through the air along­side footballs and birds. C.R. "Teo" Teodoro The sun is out on a lllusrramr beautiful day. It is a start of a new season and the end of winter. The next part of the cycle is beginning. 
Whal does this mean to me? Actually, noth­
ing much. Maybe my mind is just a bit preoc­

cupied with other matters. So what is distrar,t­
ing me from enjoying such a beautiful day? 
Quite possibly it is the fact that I know that 
this beautiful day will soon end, and night will 

take its place. The <lark shadows of dusk grow 
long as tlrn sun begins to hide behind thP hori­
zon. Now is the time when I am most active. 

This is the time when the energy within begins 
lo surge. 
It's true that I'm nocturnal. 
Some years baf'k, I usPd to work nights. I 
would sleep during most of the hours of day­
light when most people would be awake. In 
far.t. I would usually meet my friends just at 
twilight. stay up all night and leave just as the 
morning star would be dawning. I was 
rumored t.o be a vampire because of my night 
cycle back then. 
Some habits just don't die easily. I actually 
start to feel more energetic as the sun goes 
down. I can't stay up as late as I would like 
because I have work and classes during the 

day. Given the choice, I definitely would like to 
find a way to spend most of my waking hours 
at night. Still, I occasionally have a late-night 
session that drains me during the following 
day, but the insights and creativity that come 
at midnight are usually the best ones I have. 

But even at night, I am still disturbed. There 
is something that calls my attention that I can­
not ignore for very long. And I am not happy. 
Why is this? I am content with my life. My 

family is getting by. My mom's getting married 
in late summer. I'm finding enough work right 
now. My classes are not overwhelming. What 
is it that is distracting me? 
I then stop looking inside of me to find if the 
problem is with me. I look externally. Then I 

see why I am restless. There is nothing wrong 
with me now, but there is something wrong 

with the world around me. rm not sure if oth­
ers can see it, but I definitely can see some­
thing. And it is not just one thing, but many. 

Are these isolated events, or are they all relat­
ed somehow'? And how long will it be before 
this taint infects me? 
r have been infected with this malediction 
before. It is not a good thing at all. It aITects 
your perception, clouds not just your senses, 
but also your judgment. Your emotions begin 
to exaggerate themselves and sway reason 
awav from all decisions. Or, on the other 
extr~me. no emotion is expressed. Feeling is 
suppressed until a cold rationale takes over. 
Your grasp of reality slowly begins to lose 
hold. rt drains the energy of people around 
you -friends, family, everybody. Sooner or 

later, illusions are all what exist in your mind. 
These distortions of reality corrupt the mind, 
and slowly corrupt what is around you. 
I was able to get over that curse some time 
ago. l have walked that line between sanity 

and insanity and can now walk freely between 
the two worlds without losing myself. 
Unfortunately, I know some people who are 
not so lucky or resourceful. 1guess I'm going 
to have to go back into the darkness to find 
them. Ijust hope it's not too late. 

The 1•iews expressed in the Inside Column are those of lhe aulhor and not necessarily those r~( The Observer. 

News Scene Derek B.:tcher Mi.ke Vani:ga~ Mike Romanchek 
Graphics 
Maure<:11 Smilhc 
Scott Hardy 
Sports 
Lab Tech 
Mike Connolly 
Joe Stark 
Viewpoint 
Mary Margaret Nu5sbaum 

The Ob,ervcr (USPS 5')9 2-4000) i, puhlo,hcd Monday thmugh Friday nn.:p, during ur:.un ,md v:tearion pc:rimk The 00-.ervtr is: ~• mrrnber of tht· A,;'lm:i:m:d Pn.·~,. All rcproduc:rion righrs are reserved. 


utside the Dome 
Compiled from UWire reports 
6,000 rioters invade campus and city after basketball loss 
EAST LANSING 

Police from 12 agendes converged on MSU Saturday in hopes of quelling a student uprising. They patrolled hot spots throughout the day, db;tributed fliers announcing an alcohol-free gath­ering and tried to remain visible. 
Their efforts were outmatched by 6,000 rioters. 
''I've never seen anything this bad in 26 years of law enforcement," said East Lansing police Capt. Louis Muhn. 
After Saturday's men's basketball game, crowds Hooded city and campus streets until after 5 a.m. Sunday. The incident resulted in 61 separate fires throughout the city and campus. .24 arrests and eight burned vehicles, including a DeWitt Township police car. 
Other damages included a pedestrian sign torn from the ground and damage to several university buildings and trees, said MSU police Chief Bruce 

Police did everything possible to pre­vent damage to the -city, he said. He said they were prepared to let crowds march through town and yell all they wanted -as long as there was no vio­lence. 
"When everything really turned sour, we had to turn to launching tear gas," Benson said, 
MSU police fired hundreds of canis­ters ofgas in an attempt to disperse the r,rowds, he said. The gas used cost more than $10,000. 

Police hoped keeping officers in plain view of residents throughout the day would result in less conflict between fans and police, Muhn said. 
"Late in the afternoon we had 01'11­cers patrolling in the hot spots around the city like Cedar Village," he said. "A lot of the squads that patrolled wen\ interacting with the community in a highly visible manner in an attempt to prevent evenls from unfolding.'' 
Police took time in the past week with students to cstablbh a good rela­tionship and were disappointed with the outcome, Muhn said. 
Police approached students on cam­pus and in the city, asking them about their plans during and after the game. 
··we just don't know what mentality is fueling this," Muhn said. "The ques­tion everyone is wondering is, 'Why'?' This isn't a celebration. The communi­ty is asking, 'What is the reason for this'?'" 
¦ UNIVERSITY Of PENNSVLVAMA Administration bans alcohol at parties 
PHILADELPHIA 

University police issued several alcohol citations and conducted numerous related investigations over the week­end -the first under Penn's policy of stricter enforcement of the law and an indefinite ban on registered undergrad­uate parties with alcohol. And while a number of news organizations reported over the weekend that the ban would last six weeks, Provost Robert Barchi insisted that there was no set time limit and that he is open to ending it as soon as a task force sends its recommendations to Penn president Judith Rodin. Barchi added that the temporary ban would be among the very first issues the committee of 18 professors, administrators and student leaders would discuss. The group, announced Friday, will also recom­mend more permanent solutions to the University's cur­rent alcohol situation and will likely be in session for the six remaining weeks of the semester. 
¦ UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA-SAN DIEGO ACLU sues school over sign 
LA JOLLA, Calif. 

The American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) filed a law­suit in federal court on March 11 against U. California-San Diego for reprimanding freshman Ryan Benjamin Shapiro for refusing to remove a sign containing a vulgar word from the window of his residence hall. Shapiro said that his sign, which stated, "F*** Netanyahu and Pinochet," refers to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet. Shapiro said that after reading an article about Netanyahu's involve­ment with biological weapons, he wanted to equate Netanyahu with Pinochet, who is on trial for a possible extradition to Spain to be tried for war crimes. Shapiro said he posted the sign on Nov. 17 of last year. He said that his resident advisor asked him to take the sign down because the language of the sign violated the university's posting policy. 
¦ UNIVERSITY Of AmZOf<JA 
f 
Police chase ends in collision, death 

TUCSON 
An unidentified man died Friday night after crashing into 
a van during a high-speed University of Arizona police 
chase. A UAPD officer was stopped at a red light at about 
11 :35 p.m. when the driver of a red 1986 Ford Mustang went through the light, police said. The man passed the offi­cer and was reportedly driving at a high rate of speed. The officer pursued the Mustang south on Campbell and then east on East Eighth Street. The chase ended "in less than a minute," when a 1997 Pontiac minivan struck the man when he ran a stop sign. "It was a T-bone collision," said Tucson Police Department Sgt. 13rntt Klein. The Mustang's driver was dead when ollicers arrived. A passPnger insid!1 the Mustang was taken to hospital with minor injuries. The man's identity has not been released, pending notification of family membnrs, Klein said. The UAPD otliccr was unin­jured and placed on paid leave. 
¦ UNIVERSITY Of MISSISSIPPI 
Serbs protest NATO airstrikes 

OXFOHD, Miss. 
"Stop the bombing becaus11 this is our intnrnal thing. LN us fight the terrorists," was the message that Prnd Bulic, a post doctoral res!1arch associate in Pharmacology, and Srdan Filipovic, r,andidate for intelligent communications, from Belgrade, Yugoslavia, sent over the we!1k1md in protPst to the NATO air strikes. Starting Friday, Bulic and Filipovic carried picket signs in an effort to increase awareness of' what is happening in Yugoslavia and to let known tlwir bolief' of the unfair mndia coverage of the Kosovo probbn. "It is amazing that in the abs1mce of the obvious cnnsorship, free press can speak in such unison against Serbs. Th11 press is so uniformly against Serbs that I havn to do somnthing about that," said Filipovic who has liv11d in tlw U.S. for tlrn past 15 years. "My other point is that US citizens can make this world a better place but-they have to be objectively informed. At minimum they have to hear both sides.'' 
¦ SOUTH BEND WEATHER ¦ NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather0 forecnsl for daytime ·conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather'i' forecast for noon, Tuesday, March 30. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
H L 

Tuesday 67 33 Wednesday~ 65 46 Thursday 66 47
WINDY 
/'\? ---~ 80s
~ FRONTS:

Friday Q 60 47 
30s ........ 
.........
~ 
' ' ' ' " 
C 1999 AecuWeather, Inc. COf.0 WARM STATIONARY 
Pressu,-·

Saturday q, 57 43 
® © CJ . c=J . D . -0 -:~.~:* 
"lfmi~; 
High Low Showers Rein T-atorms Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 


V18 Assaci<1IE1d Pre,s5  
Albuquerque 77  40  Farmington  62  39  Kalamazoo  67  31  
4,Q,Q/;f ~ Q Showers T-storms Rain FJurries Snow fee Vis Asi;oeiatecf Press Gra.phicsNel  ~ Sunny  ~ u Pt. Cloudy C/Quay  Boston Cincinnati Denver Eureka  52 71 75 43  37 34 42 38  Gainesville 75 Hantord 57 Indianapolis 70 Jefterson City 71  52 35 35 38  Laredo 78 Las Vegas 76 New Orleans 65 Omaha 75  57 55 62 42  


Tuesday, March 30, 1999 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Panel: International debt burden warrants notice 



TICKETS ARE STILL AVAILABLE! 
BRANFORD MARSALIS 
wednesday, april 7 
7:30pm stepan center 
By JESSICA DELGADO 
ConcPl'!IS about i11t1ffnational c!Pht and its ruinous cff1•cts on di•vcloping countrins lillml di::;­n1ssi.011 yiistnrduy wlwn pun­t•lists prof'ossor of politic-al sd­nn co Mu r c Ii o I a 11 ~ I\ r. II o!y Cross Congn•galion justice roorclinaLor Ann (kstl'<\ich and Sistnr Kolopona Costa prnsonl­Pd lheir worri1~s at Stapleton Loung,\ in l.n Mans I!all. 
Tlrnir discussion ol' intnrnu­lional dt!bt lead to tile ques­tion: Should tlw Unil11d Stutes lownr thn intc\rt\St rnt1~ for [)Oor t·ountrins on thn rnmaining prindpal of Llwir loan'! 

. 
WEEKEND 
RACQUETBALL 


TOURNAMENT 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY APRIL 9 & APRIL I0 JOYCE CENTER Men's & Women's Divisions T-Shirts to all Participants Bring Your Own Racquet Balls Will be Provided Refreshments Will be Served 
Register in Advance at ~...3/.....z:-.= Deadline: Wednesday, April 7 $8.00 Fee 


www.nd.edu/-sub 

Some 011 campus rnspond yes, and wern prnparnd to act on lhal bnliuf'. 
"Today wn arn going Lo Congressman's Tim lhrnmnr's officn to ask him to legislatn a law Urnt would allow thn L!nitnd Statos to f'orgiv(! thn dci/JLs of poor countries and bring down thn inturtlst rate of Llwir loans" said Molly lludek, justico studies major. 
BnlangM began with a brief history of intornutional debt. 
"Bn 1'11 re tho l 9 70s, banks found th1irnsclvns abln to loan monoy because they had accu­mulated so much l'rom the risn of pric1•s for cnrtain it1•ms surh as oil," he cxplainod. 
Countries borrow money l'or different masons, Belanger said. Many use tho money for supplying roads, public ser­vicns or hoalth clinics. Sometirnns, the itoms pur­chased with borrowed money are essential lo development and will be purchasod uL any interm;t raw. he said, 
"\,Vhen thesn countries were granted Lhesc loans iL was at low interest, something like fivn percent. However by the late oighties the intorest rate climbed all the way tn I:{ and 14 percent, ultimately leaving the country paying back more then it initially horrowe<l," Belanger explained. 
This can be especially 
problnmatic when gov­ernrrwnts use borrowed money to l'und unpro­ductive endeavors. 
Wlrnn countries take out a loan through creditors, "oftentimes the citizens ol' that country are not notified or the purpose of the loan or even its terms or condilions,'' oxplained text in the Catholic Campaign on Debt, literature avail­able at the lecture. "Some governments have used loans for projects that do not mnet minimum stan­dards of social, ecologi­cal, or even economic viability." 
"In the 1970s a lot of money on the interna­tional level was waiting to be loaned. United States and European banks found them­
selves with billions of what you call petro-dollars," Relanger said, explaining that petro-dol­lars are funds loaned with an especially profitable interest rate. 
"The banks were looking for people who they felt creditwor­thy -countries like Mexico, Indonesia and Brazil wbo had a strong economic resource like oil or seen as politically and economically stable," Belanger said. 
Basically, creditors looked for stable countries to receivnd loans. 
"If their economies had been prospering that would've been fine," said Belanger. 
But problems arose when rncession put their products out of demand. Thu United States thought that by raising the interost ratn on thnse loans it would solve the problem of them not getting paid. 
"When a country had lo bor­row more to pay back what it already borrowed, you know there is a problem," Belanger asserted. 
Countries that had no prob­lems gntting loans l'rom the 
U.S. and the World Bank of Communications in the 1970s are now being referred to the International Monetary Fund because they arn no longer seen as a good credit risk. 

page 4 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 30, 1999 
CLC 
continued from page I 
lunch. 
The bill's opponents feu.red irrrsponsible drinking at thr lunches, which had been held in the past in order to improve 
studen t-facully relations but were cancelled some years ago. 
"The stu­dents weren't there to eat lunch. and they wcren 't tlwre to talk lo me," said St. Edward's Ilall rector father D a v i d Scheidler. "They were there to get drunk." 
"The intent of this is to bring [Fridav lunches] to the Unive;sity, at the Alumni­Senior Club, so that it would promote a morn responsible lunch," said Hall President's Council co-chair Tim FitzSimons. "It is more con­ducive to Notre Dame's idea of respomdblc drinking ... 
'THE STUDENTS WEREN'T 
[AT SENIOR BAR ON FRIDAY AITERNOON] TO EAT LUNCH, AND THEY WEREN'T THERE TO TALK TO ME. THEY WERE THERE TO GET 
DRUNK.' 
FATHER DAVID SCHEIDLER RECTOR, ST. EDWARD'S HAU 

Supporters of the resolution hoped that renewing the tradi­tion would help students devel­op relationships with thnir pro­fessors and encourage respon­sible drinking. 
Day 
continued from page I 
The idea is that we gain our perfection with doing things consistently," Cornell said. "There were great things to be done but what we busied our­selves with was the little things. The great things happened but for an enlire academic year and will coordinate the inau­guration of student members with the appointment of rec­tors and !he faculty represen­tative, who are all selected during the summer..,.. 

throughout her life, even when it endang0rcd her friendships or public support for The Catholic Worker. Cornell said. 
"She saw through the lies. She couldn't tolerate the lies," he said. "The first casualty of war is always the truth. You can't fight a war telling the 
truth." 
we didn't know 'THERE WERE GREAT it at the time." THINGS TO BE DONE Cornell also discussed the BUT WHAT WE BUSIED OUR-pacifist activi-SELVES WITH WAS THE LIT­ties of The TLE THINGS. THE GREAT
Catholic Worker, includ-THINGS HAPPENED BUT WE ing the civil DIDN'T KNOW IT AT THE 
rights move­ment and TIME.' protests against the Vietnam War. 
"Nonviolence is not the province or the white middle class," he said. "We didn't know was we got engaged in these things that they were going to be very significant in the long run." 
Day remained a pacifist 

TOM CORNELL 
ACTIVIST 
The motion was re_jected by a vote of 3­11. 
• Members passed a reso­1u ti on chang­ing the start of the CLC term to tlrn clay after May commence­ment, instead of the current April 1 start 
date. This will enable mem­bers to work 
Cornell is currently an editor of The Catholic Worker and a member of the Peter Maurin farm community in Marlboro, 
N.Y. As an activist of civil rights, disarmament and 'peace. he has been 
arrested 12 times. He has served as the 
national secretary of the Catholic Peace Fellowship since 1965. 
Cornell will speak on waging war and making peace at 4:15 
p.m. today in the Center for Social Concerns. 

Keep yourself informed about campus, national and world news with The Observer, five days a week. 
EARN S8/HR AND FREE ROOM AND BOARD! 
Time is running out to secure housing for senior week 
May 8--May 16 
Last day to sign 
housing contracts is: 


April 3 
To sign up for senior week, 
come to the catering office 
located lower level of North 
Dining Hall 
For more information, call: 
631--5449 or 631--8792 


Clarity Consulting, Inc. 
Looking for ocareer in asmall but nationally-recognized consulting firm? 
Clarity Consulting, Inc., with offices in downtown Chicago, specializes in the design and implementation of leading-edge Windows-based client/server information systems. Clarity will be discussing career opportunities in an on-campus presentation. 
• 
Clarity is ayoung, talented, entrepreneurial company that has extensive experience in custom application development, strategic planning, technical design and project management within the Fortune 500 community. 

• 
Clarity is aMicroso& Solution Provider Partner: 

• 
Clarity consultants hove diverse educational and technical backgrounds, including 


Computer Science, Engineering, Business, and Liberal Arts. If you want an exciting career which offers continuous challenges and agreat future, mark our presentation on your calendar. Visit www.claritycon.com for more information. 
DATE: Tuesdoy, March 30th TIME: 7:00PM -9:00PM PLACE: University Club, Main Lounge 
*Refreshments will be serve1J 
~/!TY 
IMicrosoftj{~::rni1IT;Ttq 
~NiU l TING 



··'"'.E 
.. D 






:ati 

T11l'~day. March .,O. 1999 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 

AFP Pholo 
A man assisted an elderly ethnic Albanian woman upon her arrival from Kosovo in the Macedonian border village of Blace, some 12 miles north of Skopje. The two were among tens of thousands of refugees who tied Yugoslavia as NATO began its sixth day of airstrikes in Kosovo. 
Attacks continue, displace natives 
¦ •.. ·· ;m · s 
New York subways cut out common courtesy 
NliW YOHK 
TIH' l'ily that inw11t . 0d tJm N1:w York minutP is appar;•ntly in loo m11rli of a hurry lo say "l'IPasP... In an att.1•111pt to SJHW!I up subway s1•rvirl', ronducfors havP hn1•11 ordnn:d to slop saying "l'l1:as1•" whPll addressing ridnrs 11vPr thP s1H'akPr sysl1im. Thnl nwans drop­ping tlw mire! from tlw phrasi• "Stand dnar 111· !he-dosing d1mrs." "II' you add l1v1: snronds af PVPl'Y st11p hy sayin~ 'plPas,~· al till' <'IHI of fi() :-;tops, ynu'n• !"011r or l"ivc minutes off sl'iwd11l1•," Al tJ'I.Pary. a spok1•s11Ht11 for tlw NM\ Yorh. City transit a11thority. said ~fonday. HidPrs w1·n•, \\I'll. not pl1:ascd. "H's 111111sPl1SP 1•• sa irl l.y1111PI l1• Taylor as she got off tlw ll train at llorkdPIIPr Ci·ntm·. ··1r tlw co1ulunors an•11'1 rnspPclful. a lot 111' lll'opln ill'I' 11111 going to lw 1·0111f11rl11bl!~ riding llw 
Segregated lepers sue Japan 
TOKYO 
l·:igl!ly-lhn•1• liinill'r IPprosy patients joined a lawsuil Mo11day acn1si11g llH• .laparn!Sfl govnrn­!111'111 of violating llwir rights by s1\grngating tliP111 from sorir•ty. Japan did nol end il'i policy of placing sulfon•rs of llansnn's llisPase, also k1111w11 as !!'prosy, into rnmott• colonit1s until 
I'I')(, Tiu• gov.-rnmPnt ap11logiz1!d that ynar for its lwlatPd action to bring IPprosy sulTerers bark into soci!'.ly. Timm ar·,. now 128 plaintiffs Sf'l'ki11g $123 million in com1w11s11.tion in a law­suit originally fi!Pd last .July by I:i formnr paliP11ts al tlw Kumamolo District Court in soulil<'rn Japan. Kyodo News ag,mcy rnport1•d. Tlw plaintiffs. who wt•rn kPpl in rnloni11s in WPst.-rn and sm1thwPstPrn Japan. claim the gnVPnHIH'llt's 88-ynar-old policy ol' forcPd iso­lation violated Llwir constitutional rights to sP.-k l"rPl'dom and happinnss. 
Mysterious gunman kills rapper FreakieTah 
¦ YUGOSLAVIA 

J\SSOC!ATEIJ l'IIESS 
BELGRADE 
Ground-attack jets took off for Kosovo on Monday as part or NATO's expand­ed attacks on the Serb forc11s carrying out a "scorched earth policy" in the separatist province. 
While tcms of thousands of r,thnic Albanian refugees flooded neighboring coun­tries. specialized A-10 "Warthog" planes were spotted taking off from Aviano Air Base in north­ern Italy. The A-10 is a low-and slnw-11ying tank­killer aircraft that could be used to strike Serb ground forces. 
Air raid sirens blared Monday evening in Belgrade. the Yugoslav capital, and two detona­
tions shook Pancevo. six miles to the north. marking the beginning of a sixth night of bombing. 
As new atrocities were reported in Kosovo, Russia's prime minister announced he was going to the Yugoslav capital of Belgrade on a peace deal, and rallies for and against the airstrikes took place in London, New York. Prague and other cities. 
NATO spokesman Air Commodore David Wilby said the latest air attacks targeted Serb and Yugoslav units involved in atrocities in Kosovo. a province in Serbia. the main republic in Yugoslavia. 
"There are indications genocide is unfolding in Kosovo." said James Hubin, the State Department spokesman. citing reports of summary executions and people being forced from their homes at gunpoint. 
Wilby said NATO had received reports that Fehmi Agani. an ethnic Albanian negotiator at recent peace talks in France, was "executed" on Sunday and that others had gone into hiding. 
Four other prominent ethnic Albanians were also reported executed in the Serbs' "scorched earth pol­icy." NATO said. 
The Serbian Media Center in Pristina, the Kosovo capital, claimed later there was no evidence to support the accusations. 
Pentagon spokesman Ken Bacon. speaking in Washington, said more 
lJ.S. aircraft, including live 
B-1 born bnrs. would soon join the mission. 
Thn westmn allies want Yugoslav Prnsident Slobodan Milosevic to stop his campaign against Kosovo's separatists and accept a peace plan that calls for 28,000 NATO troops lo enforcn the accord, including 4.000 Americans. llis refusal lo accept the peacekeeping force triggernd the NATO airstrikes. 
Ethnic Albanians make up 90 percent of Kosovo's 2 million people inhabi­tants. Serbs, however. con­sider Kosovo thnirs because it was tlrn birth­place of their culture before they lost it to the Ottoman Turks in the 15th century. 
NEWYOHK 
l!appPr l;n•aky Tali. a nwmbcr of tlrn hip­hop group llw Lost Boyz. was ki1111d by a ski­rnaskml gunman who canw up behind him and tin•d a si11ghi gunshot into his /wad. Tim gun­man llPd. Polin• do not believe robbery was the 11111tivt•. said Lt. Dnnnis Cirillo. -a police spok1•sman. Wit1wss1\S al tlw scene said tlw shoot.Pr walkPd up bPhind tlm 27-ynar-old rap­pn. whosP n•al na11H: was Haymond Hodgcrs, as lw td1 a party at a ()tH\f'llS hotel nc1tr his homl' around 4 a.m. Sunday. Thn gunman lin•d 11111:1~ without saying a word. Hodgms was rnslwd lo .Jamaica llospital, when~ lw dind about half an hour latPr. Otlrnr 11wmbnrs or the four-man group Wf•rn rPportndly al thn party but poliw Wl'fl' unah!t• to !ocatn thorn Sunday. Thi• Lost Boyz. boyhood friends who admitted hPing fornwr snrnll-linw drug dealers, had a 1>1:st-sdling album in 11)9(). 
Market Watch: 3/29 
ow 
AMEX: 717.81!
JONES 
-ll.llb Up: Nasdmi:
10,006.78 1841 

2-t92.S2 +7J.b7 
El 
NVSE: 
613.16 +HUii S&P 500: 1310.17 
C"om1msitl'
+27.37 
Volume: +l 84.54 747,1)60,000 
VOLUME LEADERS 
\OMl1,\N\. llf i,,.'.I U %<11ANi'I S (;,\IN l'ltU'h 
,,, \ll"-.l 1\111<"11 \II! 1(1 J'-,( ll 'I l t IHI' Pl 11 i 0"'.fl'l'li It •\~Im 0'-1.l~I  t'I Al \.l'il! PU L Alli  t 14 I.ft~ "f.i )t, . -I It +,j tt2  , 14, IH.t,II tVl'.):'iU • 1 .~r,:..o +Ii.Kl?~  :24Jl(1 1J2..!2 JO 4-l Lll.-'iO  
C(l\,ll'/1,(ll'(l\.fnlllR. CIV0\\",11\.i'-.  ' f'(.~("\1:0  t08'1 +-UH  +O.l..'tOll +..J.8 l 2'  3 l.~O IICUlfl  
~l~ll I 1\1 <t >kl'  ~Jt'M  +O.ff2  +curnn  .\l'U)b  
lPMl'i,\,\ 11\1. l Jk,\1 J 1 1·1 )111'  , l'U (11{(")  +lb.h•I -t t(,-1  +1.,,6SH •I f.(li)(I()  ),44 21'1.Ml  
INIH COM['  11':II"  . -I.fl?  H.15lS  121.H  

Dow closes over I0,000, sets record 
ASSOCIATEP PRESS phenomenal bull market this has above the number, Grasso and others 
been," said Hugh Johnson, market began tossing the congratulatory hats 
NEWYOHK strategist at First Albany Corp. to the trading floor, only to be disap­
This time. it's for keeps, News that several big corporate pointed when the final number came 
The Dow Jonos industrial average mergers may be in the works helped in just shy. climbed past l0,000 Monday and send the Dow over 10,000 Monday. For a while Monday, it looked like finally had enough momontum to stay But, at a post-close press conference, that pattern would be riipeated. The abovn the milestone through the clos• Grasso gave credit for the milestone blut~ chips hit 10,000 several times, ing hell. The 103-year~old index to investors who have poured money but were knocked back down again closed at 10,006.78, up 184.54 point:.. into stocks -either directly or by computer-guided trading pro­and Urn tloor of the New York Stock through mutual funds or pension grams that s,~11 stocks when the mar­Exchange began a long-awaited cele­plans -for the past decade. ket roaches a predetermined Jovel. bration. "The stock exchange had nothing to But there was enough underlying 
NYSE chairman Richard Grasso. do with Dow 10,000. It had to do with strength this time across a broad Now York Mayor Rudolph Giuliani the huge nmnbor of participants in spectrum of stocks that the Dow was and .lohn Prestbo. index editor for the marketplace. I want to send able to climb back up 10,000 and stay Dow Jones & Co., banged the gavel thank-yous to the 70 million there. symbolizing tho close of' the trading American~ who participate directly In The Dow's staying powHr was day and then began tnssing baseball equities and 1u1other 130 million who helped by an expansion of Wall caps with "Dow 10.000" embroidered participate indirectly." Street's recent rally to u broader on tht! !"runt. The Dow achieV\~d its first five-digit rangti of stocks -it wasn't just tlrn 
Traders on the floor obliged a cl.ose al'tur four failed attempts earlier large, big-nanrn companies like IBM crowd of TV cameramen, photogra­this month, when it crossed 10,000 and General Electric that gained, hut phers ,tlld reporters with a minute or only to fa.ll back amid profit-taking s,nullor comp11nies and lesser known so of applauso. and worries about upcoming quarter-namos finally started to join tho 
"U's a moment to uncork thti clmm• 1y profit reports. Two weeks ago, upward trend after some prolonged pagne and celebrate what a truly when the index appeared to close weakness. 
---------···•·----. 
··­
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, March 30, 1 n99 
Prototype U.S. missile defense program fails sixth test 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
A weapon designed to knock enemy missiles out of the sky failed its sixth direct-hit attempt Monday, raising ques­tions about the technological foasibility of a defense system that is now a national priority. 
Pentagon officials in charge of the Army's Theater High­AHilude .'\rca Del'ense (THAAD) missile program put a positive spin on the test, say­ing all targeting, radar and launch systems worked well together for the first time. And they predicted a complete suc­
cess  soon,  although  they  
couldn't  say  exactly  vdiat  
caused the miss.  

"Everything seemed to work very, very well with the excep­tion, obviously, of what hap­pened relative to the closing end game for the missile," Lt. Gen. I.ester Lyles. director of the Ballistic Missile Defense Organization. told a Pentagon news conference. 
Critics of' the program were skPptica!. however, given that the Pentagon has spent more than $50 billion on research and limiled testing on missile defense with few results, dat­ing to the Heagan administra­tion's ambitious space-based "Star Wars" system. 
"At some point you have to wonder if this is in the catego­ry of developing fusion power," said John Pike of the Federation of American Scientists. "The fact is, even the smallest malfunction means you missed the target. It says something about how difficult this is to do. Everything has to work exact­ly right or it doesn't work at all." 
The THAAD is designed to strike enemy missiles fired from ranges of 800 miles away or more -just the kinds of weapons nations such as Iran, North Korea and Pakistan are developing, raising the threat to U.S. troops an<l allies over­
'EVERYTHING SEEMED TO WORK VERY, VERY 
WELL WITH THE EXCEPTION, OBVIOUSLY, OF WHAT HAP­
PENED REl.ATIVE TO THE CLOSING END GAME FOR THE 
MISSILE.' 
L1: GEN. LESTER LYLES 
DIRECTOR OF BAI.L!S11C MISS!l.H 
DEFENSE ORGANIZATION 
seas. 
Lyles said scientists won't know exactly what went wrong with the THAAD hit-to­kill part of the missile test until reviewing radar, infrared and visual data. The telemetry system, which tracks how the THAAD is performing, went down one minute into the test, which could hamper efforts to figure out the problem and try to correct it, he said. 
Monday's test was the ninth in a series of 13 11ight tests for the THAAD program and the sixth attempt at intercepting a missile. The system has cost $3.8 billion so far. 
The THAAD -by definition a regional rather than nation­al missile defense system that could protect American cities from attack -has technology that is the most sophisticated military weaponry, and it would con tribute to develop­ment of a system that could protect the United States. 
In mid-lVlarch, the House and Senate passed separate bills making the deployment of a national missile defense as soon as possible a U.S. govern­ment priority. 
President Clinton, who had threatem1d to veto similar leg­islation in the past, this year proposed spending $6.6 billion more through 2005 for missile defense work. 
Given the technological hur­dIcs, the administration moved its target date for deploying a national missile 
hit-to-kill missile tests by June 30 or be penalized another $20 million, according to the contract. In all, the company could face up to $75 million in penalties by the end of 1999 if there are more failures. 
And the Pentagon could scrap the program or pump more money into the Navy's high-altitude missile defense system, which is still a year away from its first hit-to-kill test. 
"We are looking at backup plans just in case," Lyles said. The next THAAD flight test is scheduled for May. 
Army Lt. Gen. Paul Kflrn, a top official in the Army's research, development and acquisition agency. said he was more convinced than ever 
after Monday's near-miss that Lockheed has turned around the troubled TI-IAAD program, which had suffered from poor management and quality con­trol. 
"While we are not where we would like to be, I am encour­aged by the test today that we are much closer to achieving success than we have heen for quit,i some time," Kern said. "I am convinced Lhat American ind us try can do this." 
Kern pointed to a mid-March test of a souped-up version of the Patriot missile interceptor as proof that hit-to-kill is pos­sible. The Pac 3 test wasn't desigrrnd to hit tlrn target mis­s i Ic hut nonetheless did so during a test of radar, track­ing and other systems. 
defense system -if one 
f:~0b;/uilt -from 2003 On Monday, the THMD missile came within 10 to 30 yards of hitting its tar­get., a modified Minuteman 2 missile called a Hera, during an 
early morning test at the White Sands Missile Range, N.M. The THAAD 
self-destructed 10 sec­onds after the miss, which occurred about 300 meters above the ground. The Pentagon charged Lockheed Martin Corp., the maker of the anti-mis­sile system, a $15 million penalty for not achieving a body-to-body hit during Monday's test as required by its $15 billion contract, modified last June under congressional order. Lockheed will have to achieve two successful 

,-----------------------------. 
CASTING & ANGLING CLINIC Three Sessions
•. _7 .• l S PM
6 00 
Open to ND Students & Employees
$ S 00 Cl 
• 
ass Fee 
CLASS DATES 
APRIL 6 
APRIL 13 
APRIL 20 
Classes Held in the Joyce Center & Campus Lakes Equipment Provided but Bring Own if Possible Register in Advance at RecSports 



White House Drug Czar Barry R. Mccaffrey 
Director, Office of National Drug Control 

will visit Notre Dame to present the 

1999 National Drug Control Strategy 
Tuesday, April 6 
7:00 p.m. 
McKenna Center Auditorium (formerly the Center for Continuing Education) 
Tuesday, March 30, 1999 The Observer• NEWS page 7 
Marine navigator pleads guilty to obstruction charge 
A~sociatcd Press 
CAMI' LEJEUNE. N.C. 
i\ Marino navigator plcadnd 1-(llilly Monday lo obstruction and ronspiracy 1:harges for ,kstroying a vicloolape that l'l'l'OJ'dr.d tlrn f'lighl or llw jet that clippPd a ski gondola cable in llaly. 
ThP governm1i11l accusr.d Capt . .losl'ph SrhweilzPr, 31, of d,·stroying llw tapt\ 1111 shot bnfore his radar-jamming EA­(,B Prowler hit the gondola cabin during a low-level train­ing flight in February 19')8. All 20 p1wpl!i inside the gondola were killed. 
The military decided to try Schweitzer and tho pilot. Schwnitzcr, ol' Westbury, 
N.Y .. made the pica after an afternoon court hearing that. lasted snvernl hours at Camp l.1!jeune. Col. Alvin Kel.ler, a military judge, was to ask sions." Cavalese, Italy. Schweitzer some questions The court-martial of Asbby testified during his about the case before announc-Schweitzer had been scheduled trial that Schwfiitznr lilmnd tho ing whether ho would accept to begin late last week with early part ol' their training the pica. which was likely. j u r y !light. 
"Joe is the type of guy who selection. But Af'tor thny wants to stand up and take legal maneu­landocl, hn responsibility," said Dave Bock, vers and dis­
'THERE WERE SOME gavn the tapn 
Schweitzer's civilian attorney. c u s s i o n s to Schweitzer
BAD MISTAKF.5 MADE
in an interview beforn the between gov­and nnvor saw hearing. "Them were some bad e r n m e n I AFTER THE ACCIDENT AND it again. Ashby mistakes made after the acci-lawyers and THEY MADE BAD DECI· testifiod. dent and they made bad deci-Schweitzer's "Th11 video-
defense team SIONS.' tape has noth­delayed it. 
!JAVE BECK ing lo do with The jet pilot, 
S'cl!Wf!ITZh'U's i117'0llNEl' tlrn accidcrnt," 

Capt. Richard 
Ashby. :n, of' 
Mission Viejo. 
Calif.. was acquittml by a mili­
tary jury at Camp Lejeune of' 
manslaughter and othor 
charges on March 4. 
Manslaughtnr counts agai1Jsl Schweitznr wrH11 dismissed after th11 acquiltal. But Schweitzer and Ashby both faced the nbstruction of justice and conspiracy chargns because of the videotape's dis­appearance. 
Each charge curries a maxi­mum five-y1~ar s11nto11cr. A mil­itary punel will be chosen as early as Tunsday to participatn 
·in a sentencing hearing. 
Keller also ruled Monday that the prosecution can cal I rela­tives of the gondola victims to testify during the sentencing hearing about the impart the missing tape had on determin­ing what happcrrnd to their loved ones during the crash in Bnck said 
h1!1'or11 thP 
hnaring. Scl1weitzer "had nothing to do with causing tho dt1alhs." 
When tho j11I hit thn cable on Feb. ]. 11)98. his squadron was dliploynd from tlrn :vtarinP Corps J\ir Station at Cherry Point to tlw NATO air bas11 at Aviano. Italy, for duly over Bosnia. Af'tcrward. Italians d ernandcHI that U.S. landing rights lw revok11d at bas11s in tlrnir country. 
The Prowlnr, which carri11s onn missile, is filled with radar­
.i a 111 rn ifl g 11 (j ll ip Ill(! ll t a II cl j S designed to kl!ep l'rinndly bombers and fighters from being detncted by wwmy radar. During thos1i flights, the jut typ­ically is ul altitudns higher than 20,000 font, but tlw accidnnt or.curred during a low-ln\'el training flight. 
Ashby's jet strur.k gondola cables at 360 to 370 l'nt\t. 
¦ YUGOSLAVIA 

Serbs execute Albanian leader 
Associated Press 
. . . BRUSSELS, Bolgium 
NATO said Monday it had reliable reports that Fehmi Agani, a prominent ethnic Albanian political leader and one of the negotiators at the Rambouillet and Paris peace talk.s, has been executed by 
• Serb forces in Kosovo. Air Commodore David Wilby,ht'iefing reporters at NATO headquarters, said Agani, a close adviser to ethnic Albanian leader fbrahim Rugova, was executed Sunday. A~anihad reportedly justatt(l])ded the funeral .of Bajr(un Kelmendi, a human rights lawyer who was taken from his homeand killed on Thursday. Wilby said four other promi­nent ethnic Albanians were reported executed on Sunday, including Baton Haxhiu, ed.i­l.or-in-chiflf of tho Albanian­langU.age newspaper in Pristina. Koba Ditore. The newspaper's publishor, Veton Surroi, and Hugova both have gone into hiding, NATO o!Ucials report. 
At the daily NATO briefing, 
spokesman Jamie Sliea nlso said air attacks on Yugoslavia were effective. Jfo dMitid lhti bombing was responsible for an increase in Serb violence in Kosovo. 
"Wc'rn on plan, we are on timetable and we are on tar­get," Shea told reporters at NATO headquarters. 
lie said it appeared the Serb offensive in the province was intensifying long before the present campaign startf1d. 
NATO's assault is aimed at getting Yugoslav Prosidont Slohodan Milosevic to accept a peac(. plan that calls for 28,000 troops in Kosovo. 
Air Commodore David Wilby, briefing reporters at NATO headquarters, said the airstrikcs had hit one Yugoslav MiG jet, one small Supur Galeb plane and helicopters on the ground. 
The NATO raids are intended to force Milosevic to agree to a p<mcr1 deal that calls for NATO troops to be based in Kosovo to kNip the pence. The dnal has already been accfipled by the provinre's othnic Albanian majority. 

T[we [s Runn[rrg out to rent orre of our spacfous two-bedroow Towrthowes for the 99-00 School 'dear' Appl'cJ Toda'cJ. get ass[gned toworrow! 
Turtle Creek Apartments
212-8124 






VIEWPOINT 
page 8 
Tuesday, March 30, 1999 
¦ EDITORIAL 
Back Up Spirit of Inclusion with Policy 
¦ Uuon: or THt [);. 
,you cannot possibly have 
a broader basis for any government than that which includes all the people, with all their rights in their hands, and with an equal power to maintain their rights .' 
THE OBSERVER 
Norn, DAW. OrnCF: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. IN 46556 (2 l 9) 631-7471 
1999-2000 GENERAL BOARD 
EntTOR-IN-CIIIEf Mi<.:hellc Krnp.1 MA1'AG1NG Ern rou BUSIM'SS MANAGER 
M. Sh.mnon Rynn D.ivc Rog<.:ro 
ASSISTA!'n· MA,NAGJNC EDITOR Laura Petellc 
Nt:w.s EDJfOH ............................... Tlm Log:a1l AllVlcRl ISl.'IG M.\NAGER.......................Bryan Lu<L V1EWPOI~ r EolfOR............. Collcrn (;aughrn AD Df~IGN I\1AJ>JAGEW. .."' ......, •... Kcnnl'rh Kc:unt:y Sl'OKT~ WITOR ......................arian Kmler Sn:rr.M.lii MANA'..ER........................Mid1ad Rev~r.s SCENE .EOITOR ....................Michael Vaneg,,1> CONTROLLER..................................T1mothy Lane SA1:-11· MARY)S Ennon... , ... Collc1:n Mc:C.irthr GRAPHICS EOITOR•• ,.••..•• ,...................Joc Mueller PHOTO EnrroR .................... K~\·Jn n.,lum WEB AnMINISTRATOR......... ,............Erik Kw;fuo 
J"ht: (. )h.'ir.:fVf.•r i!> 1h-.: inJcp:•ndem th:w~l""Pcr 11ublbh~l by rh1.• sn1dc1m ofrh1.: U11i.vcr,;il-}' 9fNotre l)amc du l.ac ,md S:1rn1 M:iry's ( '.ollt.-gi:. It d0t.':!<> nut nccc:,.'-11ily rdk•ct rhl-p,ohci~,; ot the .1drnmistr.1t1on ofcirh.:r 1mtitutino. The 111,.-w,; 1.~ r.:ponir:J ;is an:urJtdy .1.oJ nbicc::1ivdy .h po!..-.ibk Unsigned ~·{.,hmriab. rc.•pres-enr tht.' opinion of tltc m.ijoriry of1he F..J.i1or-in--Ch1cf, M.111:.igtng b.hrnr. As~ii.t,im M.1.m1f.lnf; r'.,litor ~nd ..iepanmcm .!dirors. Commcm:incs, lm«:n .ind column~ pre;cm the view~ uf dtc author~ anlf not n~-co:.:;.!l.)rily chose of The OhM:rvt'r, Vi\.-wpi:1int sp;icc i:\ avaibbl.: tn .111 inie-tnbrrs r,f the '.\lc,crc l).imd~:1!111 M.iry's c11mrnu111ry ,1n1.I [0 all teac.fors. "i"he fret" cxprcssio11 (lfV;1ryi11g opini,Hu duoUJ;h lt:tu·r" 1~ cncour,1g«i 
Comaqing The Observer 
E<li ror-in-Ch ief 6.11-4542 Oflice Managa/General Information 631-7471 Man,1ging r.diror/As,i,i:ram ME 6.Jl-4541 Bu,inc,s Offkc 631-53B N-cw.~ (,31-5321 Advenising O 1-6900/8840 Vit:wpoinr 6.ll-530:! System,/W,b Admirumaior 631-8839 Spon~ 6,l 1-454.l Fax 631-6927 Scene 631-4540 Ad f::.-Moil obscrver@dorwin.cc.nd.edll S.1im M;try"s (:d 1-4324 News E-Mail ob,erver.obsnew,. I ~nd.cdu Photo 6jl-8767 V1<wpom1 E-Mail observer.vicwpoim.l@nJ.edu 
~~~ 
http!// m.Acnelly.c.om 
The recent resignation of Mark Jorda,n, an openly gay, tenuredpro-. fossor, highlighted problems with the University officers' Feb. 5 decision not to add the protection of sexual orientation to its legally binding non­discrimination clause. 
Jordan stated that the University's refusal to legally protect sexual ori­entation denied him job security. He stated that "it's very damaging" that professors have to "suffer under this liu~k of support.'' 
WHILE THE SPIRIT OF INCLUSION EXPRF.SS­FS ELOQUENTLY THE CHRISTIAN ETHIC THAT SHOUlD BE PERVASIVE AT NOTRE DAME, THE EMERG­ING PATTERN OF COMMENTS AND ACTIONS BY PROFES­SORS AND ADMINISTRATORS SHOWS THAT THE UNIVERSITY'S CURRENT ENVIRONMENT DOES NOT REFLECT THE STATEMENT'S GOALS. 
The Board of Fellows, in defense of its decision, noted that the University's Spirit of Inclusion state­ment specifically demands recogni­tion of "the dignity inherent in each person, including the gay and lesbian members of the Notre Dame commu­nity." 
Because tho Universlty adoptrid such a statement in August 1997, said the fellows. adding a legally 
binding sexual orientation. cla.us,f \'VaS ..· ~nl)ec~ss~ry; it could also. f?~te,r;9t~e .. Oall'!:~'s.Catholic-based policii}stq be interpreted by civil courts. . . · 
•Of course, the campus commµnity has dearly enjoyed "an environment ofmutual respect, hospitality and. warmth in which none are strangers and all may flourish," since Aug. 27, 1997, when University officers first adopted the Spirit of Inclusion, has it not? 
Students, administrators, faculty and staff have adhered more con­sciously to "the social teachings of the Cathollc Church [to] promote a 
. society founded on justice and love" since that date, have they not? 
The University community has worked to "prize the uniqueness of all person's as God's creatures . ., regardless or sexual orientation" throughout the last 19 months, has it not? 
In fact, it has not, and a recent pat­tern of action by professors and administrators -most recently Jordan -shows that the use of the Spirit of fnclusion to create such an 
· atmosphere at Notre Bame has 
·· failed. On March 23, Jordan resigned, He said he hoped his resignation would urge Notre Dame to reconsider its stance on the non-discrimination clause. 
On Oct. 9, 1998, dean Carolyn Woo of the College of Business Administration stated to the Academic Council that the most qual­ified job candidate for a faculty posi­tion was not offered employment after the applicant revealed he or she was a practicing homosexual, accord­ing to four sources. 
On Nov. 12, 1998, Carnogi(;' Mnllon . University assistant professor Scott Sandage wrote tn a letter to the edi­
tor of The Observer that "however much l·mightwant to c;h atNotre Dame.Notre Dame.....·•· d]1pt want me because I am openly gay." He cited the University'$ denial of stu­dent-group status to GLND/SMC and 
IF CONCRETE POLICY IS NOTIMPLEMENTED,MEM· BERS OF THE UNIVERSITY 
COMMUNITY MUST QUESTION 
WHETHER THE SPIRIT OF 
INCLUSION IS SIMPLY AN 
EMPTY PROMISE -A SUPER­
FICIAL STATEMENT CONCOCT­
ED TO BE A FLOWERY BUT 
MEANINGLESS SUBSTITUTION 
FOR LEGAL POLICY. 
the incident recounted by Woo in defense of his sentiments. 
On March 19, 1998, assistant pro­fessor Father David Garrick resigned in protest of the administration's handling ofgay and lesbian students and faculty, a "last, best chance to help my alma mater," according to Garrick. The homosexual. celibate Holy Cross priest noted that the Spirit of Inclusion's "pretty language" did nothing to create a more welcoming atmosphere at Notre Dame. 
While tho Spirit of Inclusion expresses eloquently the Christian ethic that should be pervasive at Notro Dame, the emerging pattern of comments and actions by professors and administrators shows that the Unlvorsity's current em1iromnent does not reflect the statement's goals. 
Not only does the atmosphere seem to dissuade homosexual job candi­dates f'rom being offered or accepting faculty positions, it drives away suc­cessful academics and teachers like Jordan and Garrick. 
In turn, students suffer the conse­quences of being taught by less quali­fied professors or by professors who feel unwelcome at Notre Dame. Students and faculty membors arc denied the opportunity to form rela­tionships with individuals who might otherwise become mentors, load«ws and friends. 
The Spirit of Inclusion's theory is strong, but it lacks substance in prac­tical application. 
University officials need to strengthen the statement with policy, especially now that the Board of Fellows has highlighted the Spirit of Inclusion's role in deterring discrimi­nation against gays and lesbians. 
When students' educations arc jeopardized because of an environ­ment inconsistent with the Spirit of Inclusion's message, 1steps need to be taken to strengthen that message. 
ff concrete policy is not impl(imcnt­ed, mombers of the University com­munity must question whether tho Spirit of Inclusion is simply an empty promise -a superficial statement concocted to be a flowery but mean­ingless substitution for legal policy. 
As it stands, the Spirit of Inclusion does not adequately meet its stated goal to "value gay and lesbian mem­bers of' this community as we value all members of this community." 
Without policy to strengthen that statement, the Notre Dame communi­ty must question whetlrnr tho Spirit of Inclusion honestly represents the sentiments of the llniverslty officers or if the statement consists of' mnrn platitudes to silence the rumblings of discontent. 
I IVA~ '!Ht: tfi(JY M-/0
M4'AM, 
5TRIPPW&VRING 
§? l)ARRa,I 
7Hf3 IJCCNN G4Mt,; 'TO 
A.2tO· 
7/J PROT/337. .. UM,.. 70
A1t1JOR 
P/<rJll;5T. .. ' 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
10 I rOP'.6!3T. P/?07!36T 11AMN, 7HAT5 A£ If/HAT? GR&AT l?f?£'S5. 
I 
-William Lloyd Garrison 


VIEWPOINT 
Tw.:sJay, March .10, I 999 -------------------OB~fRVER 

¦ Nor PEACE, BUT THE SWORD 
1966, 1977, 1988 
and 1999 
For lhe lnsl s1•v11ral months. I have brnrn afllictod with Lim disturbing uftnrtusto of Notrn Damo's :15-28 loss to c;noq{ia Tech in tho Gator Bowl. /\flor guing over the sdwdul<>. and reading u tonn about our new players and rnad1i11g staff, I have u bold prediction: Notrc Dame will win I.Im Collt•.g<i Footliall National Championship in 1999. Arni. sonwbody agrrnis with mn. Bill Gleason of LhP South B,•ncl Trihm111 has writlnn a column Lo this affect. In fact. his pine,, appnar11d _jusl weeks al'wr tlrn Gator Bowl loss. c;l<'ason may havo supportml his tlrnory wilh mnrc sonti­nwntal nvidliru·1i. but I think that I can must11r some solid 
rwidcnce.
!!!!:!=~=============== Isuppose my 
primary reason 
for b,\linving 
we'll have a 
championship 
season next 
year is lhe fact 

-Sean 
that we have a Ilcisman 
Vinck 
________________ Trophy candi­
datl' quartnr­bw:k in Jarious .hickson. The imprnvPm,~nt and develop­mnnl .Jackson underwent lasl season was nothing short of amazing. In .Jackson's last gamfl at full strength, the Nov. 21 showdown with LSU. ho accounted for 356 ol'470 yards or olfons,\ in combined rushing and passing. Coupled with tlw hiring of 1'1ivin llogcrs. we should sne some rather amazing !'eats 011 offonse next year. In fact, Hogers' offens­(1S at Syracusn av1•.ragnd over forty points per game. and :iOOO yards pPr season. Combine that coaching ability with .Jackson's proVPn ath!Ptic prowess. and wn'II sec offensive produclion unrivalPd sinni the days of Tony Hien. 
I think anotlwr major n•ason for optimism is the sched­1111' WI' will foe:<\. WP have a home opener on August 28 with pushovm· Kansas. This should be an excellent warm­up !'or our road rlaslws with Michigan on Sept. 4 and l'urdw• on S1!pl. I I. My gut fo1\ling is lhat we will beat Michigan handily. By next ynar. the Wolverines will have grndualnd many ddnnsivn slarlcrs. and Lloyd Carr has prown himsl'!f incapabl(' or ddending a divcrsilied option­orientPd offense (see the rnsults or the ND -Michigan and Llw Syracusn -Michigan ganrns last yoar). Them is his­torical prnccdnnt as WPII. In 1987, Lou llollz took a young Noln' Dame ll!am lo Ann Arbor and shocked the Wolvnrines in a 26-7 pounding. Likewise. Davie has shown signs ot' Coaching brilliance in his lirsl yoars al Nolrn Danw. Likl' lloltz. Im will tako a young Irish team to typi­rnlly hostik Michigan Stadium. and like lloltz, hn will per­S<'V!WP undnr rlinicult circumstancns. Davie has shown sonw n\rnarkahln motivational skills in both ·97 and '98. Look at his stunning upset of LSU in Nov. '97, and the fol­lnwing w1iek's defeat of No. 22 West Virginia. In '98, Davie coarhnd the Irish to a total domination of the defending National Champion Wolverin<'s in the season opener with a rookin quarterback. Davie should be able to pull this off again in '1J9 wilh the athletic talm1t and brilliant coaching staff now in his possession. 
With a strnak or 5 home games in snven weeks. the Irish should have thP opportunity to maturn and d1welop on favorable turf. preparing thmn for a crucial match-up with tlw highly-rat1•d. clcfoncling National Champion, Tennessee VoluntcPrs. (;oing bd'orn a crowd of over 100.000 fans in hostile Neyland Stadium should be a stiff challenge. But. with a solid bmm at quarterback. an improved defensive secondary. and a solid defensive line. the Irish will prevail, albeit by a narrow margin. 
Particularly troublesome will bn a Nov. 20 home contest against the Boston Col!ego Eagles. Everyone remembers Nil's mortifying 41-39 loss at home against B.C. one week after the defoat of' No. 1 Florida State. BC, despite a mndiocrc record over tho past fuw years is a solid team wilh a line coach in Tom O'Brien. They will give the Irish u rnn for Llwir money, just like in '98. Who could forgflt tiH1 miraculous fourth quarter goal-lino stand? But, with Cod and tlrn luck of tho Irish on our si<le, ND will prevail hv a touchdown. the outcome not sure until the linal min­utes of the fourth quarter. 
After a walloping or Stanford in Palo Alto, ND will stand at No. 2 in the BCS ratings with a regular season record of 12-0. This will get us a ticket to play first-ranked Penn State in the Sugar Bowl for the '99 title. Like the gridiron Penn State-Notre Dame contest<; of the lloltz era, this gamn will b11 a defensive struggle. Both offenses will strug­gle with yardagn and completions. In the end, though, I b,dieve lhe Irish will prnvail by a 20-17 score in overtime to lake the final Collegn Football Crown of the twentieth century. capping one-hundred years of excellence and domination. 
Sean Vinck is a sophomore Pl.S major. His column appears every olher Tuesday. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
¦ THE BELLE OF SAINT MARV'S 

Hair, Hamsters, and the Annual Spring Reality Check 
The hairdresser snapped the plastic sheet over And I glared at him, one hand over the nar not my neck. held out a lock of my hair, the ends of pressed to the receiver, and said. "Do YOU which looked to be mauled by wombats, and mind? I'm trying to GET an ollicn." announced, "Your hair looks ... tired." Mr. Kansas should let me know about the job 
I slumped. So. It's sprnad to my hair. within a couple of weeks or so; Yo-Yo Child will 
Of COURSE my split ends are exhausted. For be hearing from my lawyers in a matter of lo, the Lord has called His legions of annoyances hours. upon me. You want to know ================ Yes, yes, yes. The linal whal I did over my spring semester of my senior year 
break? Here's my spring is going swimmingly.

Mary Beth 
break: An editor of a newspa-So when I returned lo per in fabulous Junction City, South Bend. "City of Kan .. had requested a phone Mystery, of Enchantment."

E11,·s
interview for the morning I I sulked to the pnt depart-
had planned to tour Kennedy Space Center in Cape Canaveral. What was I going to say? I'm sorry, but you'll have to award this opportunity for gainful employment to someone less pathetic. I, for one, prefer to be standing in the "Space Trader USA" shop deciding between the Alan Shephard memorial shot glass ($18. 7 5) and the gold foil Spam Blanket (seven square feet for $4.50). 
So at the appointed hour I stopped outside of a restaurant christened "The Lunch Pad" and picked up lhe receiver of a pay phone shaped like -I wish I were making this up -a Mercury spacecraft, dialing some idiot in Kansas who had apparently thought I was serious when I indicat­ed that I work well as a team member. as dis­cussed in the General Bullcrap portion of my resume. Within the lirst ten minutes of the con­versation ("So, tell me about yourself." "Well! I enjoy playing air hockey with my parole officer and ... "), the following high-decibel objects had passed within ten feet of me and the phone: 
1) A 75-child school trip evidently sponsored by the School For the Usually Loud and Obnoxious. 
2) A wheeled, extraordinarily cumbersome food-moving device that was also apparently the same apparatus used to roll the space shuttle onto the launch pad. 
3) An eight-year-old boy with a yo-yo that emitted a cast of noises enjoyable only to eight year-old boys. For some reason, this child felt called to the strip of grass located approximately four inches away from the phone; therefore, every two seconds or so the crisp Florida air was filled with a haunting "WHOOOOP! WHOOOOP!" So all of my responses were transmitted to Kansas sounding thusly, "I grew up in WIIOOOOP! WIIOOOOP! Saint Mary's College, a liberal arts WHOOOUI'! WHOOOOP! at the Basilica of the Sacred WHOOOOP! WHOOOOP! with The Observer, where we WIIOOOOP! WHOOOOP! ... " 
Also standing nearby was a gentleman who raised the art of disgruntledness to an entirely new plane. He was waiting for my phone, and when I didn't hang up and didn't hang up and didn't hang up, he tapped me on the shoulder just as the editor was imparting to me the vital information that the newspaper was located less than two blocks from the largest man-made lake in Kansas. I pulled away from the phone for a moment and he asked me, in a voice firmly packed with snot, "Do you MIND'.' I'm trying to call my office." 
ment of Meijnr's to p1\p 
myself up, for it's irnpossi­
ble lo b<ihold pile of sleep­
ing hamsters without srnil­ing. A Meijer's employen was cleaning the cages at the time -wait! There's a job I'm qualilied 
for! -and offered to let me hold the rodent of my choice. So there I was, patting the fuzzy nose of one of God's creaturns, thinking that perhaps 
the world wasn't such a had place after all, unlil 
the hamster. apparently disagreeing, peed on 
me. 
And TIIEN someone cancelml "Mystery Scicncn Theater 3000." 
You know, I returned from brnuk to discover that a can of orango juice had spilled inside my refrigerator. leaving a colorful array of fungus in various hues and odors. As I crouclwd on my hands and knees, scooping green ,and yellow gunk into a trash can, I made the following hor­rifying realization: In less than six weeks, I am expected to pull myself together and conduct a relatively adult-style existence. And I can't even control my refrigerator. 
Some people my age suffer from senioritis; oth­ers have Heal World Anxiety Disorder -any number of reasonable reactions to staring grad­uation in the face. I wind up with a pervasive world-weariness brought on by incontinent ham­sters and the largest man-made lake in Kansas. 
My tired hair and I need a nap. Wake me up when there's an opening at Meijer's for a Cage Cleaner. 
P.S. Fellow Misties: If you want to assist in sav­ing the smartest show on television -and, yes, I include in this statement "Felicily"-drop by www.mst3kinfo.com'satnews/saveshow.html. H's for the good uf' brain cells across the pla1111t. 
If you happen to have an extra Notre Dame graduation ticket lying around that you 're hav­ing trouble getting rid of. it would indeed make Mary Beth Ellis -a Saint Mary's senior -very happy to see her best boyfriend, Closest-in-Age cousin and several good friends take that magic walk into the alumni ticket lottery. PI.HASE PLEASE PLEASE PLE'ASE e-mail her at glitter­writer@yahoo.com ifyou can help. In exchange. she will promise to mention you in an upcoming column, or promise to NEVER mention you in ANY column. whichever you prefer. lier column appears e1,ery other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

---------------Tuesday, March 30, 1999 
Expanding Lori:zons 


Scene spotlights the Snile ... 
Heidi Williams, coordinator of the Friends. "They serve u.s a community outreach for the Museum; they exist to transmit the cultural belief's of' the museum to the public." 
"Th1>, Friends group l'urtlrnrs the museum and University interest to share expertise and resources with our local community," said Chuck Loving, associatP. director ol' the S11il!1 Museum. 
The Snite Musc~um opened in November of 1980, but the University had ~treacly formed a steering com­miUee fur the Fri1inds of the Snitc in May of 1979. In SP.ptember 1979, then-University president Father Theodore llesburgh officially sanc­tioned the existence of' the group as a nonprofil, outreach arm or the Snite Museum and Notre Dame. 
Photo courtesy ot the Snile Museum 
Today, the Friends organization 

Ry LOUBEL CRUZ Scene Wricer 
At Notre Dame, the Snitc Museum of Art is the main symbol of the University's aim to be an institution of art and culture. The museum showcases a versatile col­lection of art. from international paintings to the works of Notre Dame students and faculty. To stu­dents. the Snite is not only a tourist attraction, but also place for both learning and teaching. For many, memories of Snite tours and classes on art history come to mind. The outside community also acknowledges the importance of the Snite Museum, using it as a base for fine art and a source of unification of the region­al area. The Friends of the Snite Museum knows this importance more than most, working to make the regional community aware of the museum's resources and valuable assets. "The Friends" -as they are commonly known ­is a membership organization that encourages par­ticipation by individuals and corporations in muse­um-related education, fund raising and social-and community-relations programs. Each year, they sponsor special programming to encourage the com­munity to visit the Snite Museum. "The Friends is a voluntary, nonprofit organiza­tion of concerned citizens who have an abiding interest in the visual arts of the Snite Museum," said 
has more than 100 volunteers who work on various committees. 
"The goodwill and public relations that these com­munity leaders provide the museum are incalcula­ble," said Williams. "Through their efforts, visibility and membership participation have increased over the years." 
Membership to the Friends is open to anyone, and dues range from $10 for non-Notre Dame/Saint Mary's students through $5,000 for the Director's Circle. Besides the satisfaction of supporting one of the nation's finest university art museums, member­ship includes: 
• 
Invitations to special exhibitions, receptions and programs 

• 
Free or discounted admission to lectures 

• 
Parking decal and membership card 



• 
Subscription to the museum's semi-annual "Calendar of Events" magazine 

• 
15 percent discount in the Museum Shop 

• 
Subscription to Notre Dame Magazine 

• 
Eligibility to participate in museum trips 




The goal of the Friends is to increase membership as well as visibility of the University and the muse­um as community partners. This is done through their many special programs, headed by selected committees, to encourage the community to visit the Snite. ' 
The Education Committee encourages community 
participation by sponsoring both one-day and wcrnk­l011g trips to other museums and demonstrations to create a bettr:r understanding of the arts. 
"The Friends offer oducational travel programs for mernbors. This year's trips are offernd to San Francisco, Taos, London and Paris," said Loving. 
Anothor special event held by tho education com­mittee is their annual lligh School Art Day. This year's participating local high schools includP LaSalle, Clay and Washington lligh Schools. 
"Tim students have the opportunity to s1wnd ... part of the day at the Hiley Hall of Art wher(' tlwy join Notre Damn students in rngularly sclwdulPcl art classes, including ceramics, 11gurn drawing, photog­raphy, design, sculpture and watercolor," said Williams. 
The Friends also host an annual Christmas lknnlit put together by its own committoe who sponsors a fund-raising black-UP ditmer. Thl' dinrwr brings together :mo to 400 museum bnndactors, FriPnds and volunteers. 
"The di111wr brings p1wplo together lo inaugurat.n the holiday season, lo fund art acquisition and to provide a forum for individuals interested in the Museum to meet and socialize," said Loving. 
''The evening is full of' elegance and beauty, and provides funds that help support the general opera­tions of the Friends organization and provides mon.ies to purchase new works of art for the Museum," said Williams. 
Other committees of the Friends of tlrn Snit.Ii include the community relations committee, which hosts exhibition-opening rnceptions, and tlw mPm­bership committee, which seeks funding for tlw 0rganizalion through encouraging new nwmbPrs. Newer committees arc the football Friday commit­tee, which helps direct people who are unfamiliar with the campus and encourages them to visit the museum and attend programs which arrange visits to spend afternoons with the region's most distin­guished artists. 
"The Friends visit regional artist studios, to nwet diverse artists to learn about their art and tlwir working environments," said Loving. 
The Friends of the Snite is growing annually and future plans consist or travel to Europe, tlw dcvdop­ment of a marketing plan and an attmnpt to markPt museum greeting cards. 
"The future of the· Friends looks very promising," said Williams. "With the combined efforts of' tlrnir priceless volunteers and enthusiasm, their f'uturn is certain to grow and prosper." 

Tuesday, March 30, 1999 -----------------------------------page 11
BSERVER 

tL tLe Suite's Friends 
HigL ScLool 1'rt Day '98 -
Tbe Friend§ spon!!ior High Scl1ool 
A.rt Da,-lo §upporl aspiring 
artitd§ fro•n Micl1ii11na higl11 
scl.ools. In conjunction will. tl11e 
departn11ent of art, art l.islor,-and 
de§ign, tl.e Friends tt"ill sponsor 
Higlii Scl.ool A.rt Da,-'99 on April 
16. 

Above: Students from local high schools play with mud. 
Right: Local art students draw beside Notre Dame art students. 
Below: A student models for local students during the Friends' High School Art Day. 


Photo courtesy of the Snile Museum 
Do you like art? 
Maybe you should write about it. 
Ifyou are an art critic, an art stu­dent or just questioning your place in the art ivorld, maybe you should write for Scene. 
Give Mike a call at 1-4540. 


page 12 
Coach K and Duke bow before Calhoun and Huskies 
KAT Photo 
Guard Justin Caldbeck and UConn beat heavily favored Duke, 77-74. 
Richard Hamilton's return to l3JiE,Sfnn keys first title 
Associated Press  sure to finish with a win, pour­ doubled over for a·moment;try>i liighesfscorer in school history  thing Calhoun said he thought  
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla.  ing in· 27 points as the Huskies beat Duke 77-74 for the nation­ ing to catch his breath. Ftn.tl.lly~ he steppedto the foul line arid  w pb  ..  e went over the 2,000­·rk in Saturday's semifi­ about when he talked about the NBA with Hamilton last spring.  
Last spring, Richard Hamilton  al championship he wanted so  nailed the free throws for a l~ad ···  rjaly@.ry against Ohio State.  "He's had two major injuries,"  
thought seriously about lea\>ing Connecticut for the NBA.  much. Hamilton was heroic in the  the Huskies would never agajn surrender. . . .  He was an All-American and co­Player or the Year in the Big  Calhoun said. "I would never want to have him in a situation  
He had all the credentials including a couple of Big East  victory. Every time UConn need­ed a basket, he seemed there for  Then, just for emphasis, the next time down. the floor, .he  I3&St Gpnference, joining Patrick Ewing and·Chris Mullin as the  where he's sitting there in crutches or in a cast or some­ 
championships and the confer­ it. He slashed to the basket. he  drained a 3-pointer, extending  only tWQ-time winners of that  thing and passed on a great deal  
ence's Player of the Year award.  nailed shots from outside and he  UConn'slead to five points.  award.  of money."  
So he talked it over with coach  took the game over in the sec­ For the game, he finished with  The Huskies won their first 20  That said, the coach believes  
Jim Calhoun and together they  ond half.  10-of-22 from the floor Seven  gatriefthis season but when. he  the extra year has prepared  
decided there was one more  With the score tied at 68. and  rebounds and three assists~  .•.  and JakeVoshkul were hurt and  Hamilton more completely.  
piece of business for him to  3:50 left to play, he took a shot  Hamilton was the heart ofthe  rj}is~e~ a Feb. 1 game against  "Clearly, he's more ready this  
complete.  to the midsection from Duke's  UConn season, averagingJ9;z  .·  $yr;i¢;us¢,the. Huskies lost. It  year than he was last year," 
On Monday night, he made  Chris Carrawelt Hamilton was  points and becoming the secontl  vvas #ticoihcidence and some- Calhoun said.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. co 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day. including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right co edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Study hours-if eligible-with 2 Bdrm Apt at College Park to sub-Laura has left the building. National Youth Sports lease for summer session. Call 4­
ILOST & FOUND I FOR RENT PERSONALProgram.for total 40 hrs/wk if 3620. Or so she wishes. 
desired) Lost: 100 CDs that were in a black CALL ASAP for BED 'N BREAKFAST SUMMER SUBLEASE When you need copies ... I miss my fencing beat CaseLogic carrying case. Lost in application form 631-4435 REGISTRY Upper COLLEGE PARK We're OPEN!!! LaFortune the night of 2/26/99. App. deadline April 6. 219-291-7153 2 Bdrm, A/C, wash/dryer Rules of Basketball for AMM Monetary reward being offered if also THE COPY SHOP 
found. No questions asked. House For Rent FURNITURE in great cond. LaFortune Student Center 1Oseconds to get ball across half-Please call Brian at 4-1126 w/ any Freshamn taking gen chem looking 4-5 Bedroom couches, tables, beds 631-COPY court info. for a roomate for the summer ses• Close to Campus Call 273-2917 
sion. Includes: Dishwasher, Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight Point guard-handles the ball better LOST GLASSES Washer/Dryer, Fridge, Stove. Fri: 7:3Dam-7:00pm than anyone else on the floor 
FOR SALE
Grey Frames Call Peter at 4-0992 if interested. Remodeling Kitchen in spring. Sat: Noon-6:00pm Hard, Leather Case RENT REDUCED! Sun: Noon-Midnight Shooting guard-shoots the ball bet-If Found, Call Rebecca x1464 Call 289-4 712 
NEW Rates Phone Cards ter than the point guard, usually. SEASONAL SALES PERSON 
NEEDED Tri-level 3 bdrm house, 1-1/2 mi. 282 min. $20 call 258-4805 COUNTDOWN TO THE Small forward-shoots the ball well 
WANTED 
IN LOCAL GOLF PRO SHOP. from campus across from park with •• LEWIS CRUSH •• but also has better inside moves 
CALL 282-3727 AND ASK FOR 1-1/2 baths, family room with fire-GUITAR-Fender Electric/Acoustic, 11 DAYS than the shooting guard SUMMER EMPLOYMENT: DICK WALKER. place, 2-car garage, fenced-in back cut-away body, 1 yr old. will YOU be invited? ART EDUCATION yard. AC, stove, refrig, W/D, G/D & $350 or B/0. Includes case and Power forward-has better inside ASSISTANT American Flyer Model Trains -turn D/W. $995/mo. 683-5038 or 232-stand. NEED 2 graduation tix moves than the small forward SNITE ART MUSEUM.Get your attic train set into $$ 4527 Call John @271-8531 teaching experience while 
Call Greg at 271-0138 Center-big and ugly, Phil Hickey is making a difference in South can Dave at 273-9015 5/6 BDRM HOMES. NEAR CAM-
Beth, a center Bend!Assist Education PUS. FURN. 272-6551 How you doing? Curator with summer youth Hotel Help Wanted 
I am fine, Just never around ..... There are one of each of the above art program focusing on 
TICKETS
STAYING IN SOUTH BEND FOR positions 011 the floor at once museum obJects and art Holiday Inn/Univ, Area needs full & THE SUMMER??? Mike making.June 1-July 30, 15·20 part time help for Rest. & Bar Lovely five-bedroom, single family I need graduation tickets! Advanced Basketball hours per week.Fine Arts &educa-Server,Bartender,Night Auditor,PM house available for sub-lease. Buongiomo, Principessa! 
tion majors with exp Van Driver.Desk Clerk.Banquet About a mile from campus. Call Kelly @243-8932 Wing guard• combination of shoot-teaching &/or working with Capt, & 
Safe neighborhood. Clean. Two At least other people have prob-ing guard and small forward children preterred. INCLUDES Servers.Outstanding window air-conditioners. In DIRE need of graduation tickets lems. Not just me, I mean. ROOM & BOARD June 20 benefits.including room discounts Washer and dryer, stove, refrige, Box and one-combination of zone July 30. Apply al 515 Dixieway North. Call 634-0562 for info. PLEASE call John @271-8531 Mmrnm -fajitas. and man-man defense 
Associated Press 
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. Connecticut spoiled the Duke Invitational. 
The Huskies beat top-ranked Duke, the team no one thought could be beaten in this NCAA tournament, for their first national championship in their first Final Four appearance. 
The 77-74 victory Monday night ended Duke's 32-game winning streak. kept the Blue Devils l'rom an NCAA record for wins in a season, and prevented them from ending the '90s with a third national championship. 
Richard Hamilton led third­ranked Connecticut (34-2) with 27 points. but it was some tremendous team defense and a big shot and free throws by Khalid El-Amin that won it all. 
Trajan Langdon led Duke (37­
-
2) with 25 points. but Duke's last two possessions ended with him making turnovers. And so the l31uc Devils fell short of what everyone had expected -anoth­er title. Their third in the 90s and first since 1992. 
These were the only two teams to hold the No. 1 ranking this season and they played a final game worthy of the two best. 
Connecticut was able to keep the game at a pace it liked even though most everyone thought the Huskies should try to slow the tempo. The quick pace made for what seemed like constant lead changes, the last coming with 3:50 to play when Hamilton's free throws gave the Huskies a 70-68 lead. 
He hit a three-pointer 21 sec­onds later for a five-point lead and suddenly Duke was playing a role it had very little experi­encA at this seasol! -the chas­er. 
William Avery's free throws with 54 seconds left got the Blue Devils within 75-74. El-Amin, whose driving basket had given Connecticut the 75-72 lPad, missed on a drive with 24 sec­onds left and Duke had life. 
The crowd of 41,340 at Tropicana Held, the court where Duke's season ended a year ago, was roaring as the Blue Devils went for the final shot without calling a timf'out. 
Langdon, the fifth-year senior who made the Final Four in his last chance, tried to get by Ricky Moore, one of the game's best defenders. Langdon spun but Moore was there. Langdon look an extra step and was called for traveling with 5.4 seconds to go. 
El-Amin made two free throws with 5.2 seconds left to get the le ad back to three. and Langdon·s last chance at tying the game ended when he fell near ihe three-point line and lost control of the ball. 
With that, Connecticut charged the court and had the title every­one thought Duke would claim. 
It was Duke's eighth Final Four under Mike Krzyzewski, who was trying to become the fourth coach lo win a third national championship. 
It was Connecticut's first and Jim Calhoun, labeled one of the best coaches never to reach a Final Four, finally did, and left the court with a national title in his 27th season, the last 13 at Connecticut. 
Duke finishes tied with the 1986 Duke team and UNLV in 1987 with 37 victories. The loss also gives Duke a 2-6 record in national championship games. 
the titles coming in "1991 and 1992. 
This title was the lirst for the Big East since Villanova pulled off another huge upset in 1985, beating Georgetown. 
A jumper by Hamilton gave the Huskies a 65-59 lead with 
8:57 left. Elton Brand, the national player of tho year who finished with 15 points and 13 rebounds, got Duke right back in it. 
Brand blocked a shot by Hamilton then went down and scored on a fast break. He then stole the ball from Edmund Saunders 30 feet from the bas­ket, but missed the free throw when he was foulfld. Aftflr a bas­ket by Chris Carrawell brought the Blue Devils within 65-63, Brand blocked a 3-point attempt by El-Amin and Langdon made one of two free throws on that possession to make it 65-64. 
Hamilton. a first-team All­American who was 10-for-22 from the field and had seven rebounds, finished as the tour­nament's leading scorer with 145 points in the six games. Averaging 24.1 points per game, he was the tournament's Most Outstanding Player. 
Moore scored all 13 of his points in the first half and El­Amin had 12. 
Langdon was 7-for-15 from · the lield. including 5-for-10 from three-point range, and Avery had 11 points and five assists. 
Duke's only other loss was by one point to Cincinnati in the Great Alaskan Shoot-out in November and only four times did a team come within 10 
points of the Blue Devils, who 111r1J••t......~ 
led the nation in scoring (92.3) 
and margin of victory (25.4). 
(6/20-7I30,additiorlal Work 
page 13 The Observer. SPORTS Tuesday, March 30, 1999 

Jordan may return to NBA as owner of Hornets 
Former Bulls star talks with David Stern and Hornets 
A"MH.:i:ueJ Press 
Cl lt\BLOTTF, N.C 
Mich,wl .Jordan wont on 1•prord Mo11dav that lw's had prP!iminary l~lihs about. t'.o­ow11i11g thi' Cl!arlotlP lloruds. h111 will his prf'sPn1·,, tiring back llw funs'! 
1\11<1 could it flVl'll hrnaUrn IH'W Iii',• into t.lw 11phill lrnttlo to build ii 1Hiw downtown f\llA Hl'f'll.!'! 
Lofty oxpnetations for just one man. But this is Micha~! .Jordan. al'tcr all. 
J o r cl a 11 wasn't say­ing very mud1 abnut his plans, although he did !'onl'irm '.'vlonday I.hat 

lw has IHw11 Jordan in touch with Ilonwts and NBA orticials. "111 rnsponsn to rnports, I can 
r'.onfinn that I havn hoPn con­tartnd by Gnorgn Shinn aud !NBA commissionnrl David 
Stern regarding co-ownership of the Charlotte Hornets," Jordan said in tlrn statement issued Mnmluy through agent David Falk's office in Washington. 
Jordan spoki1 with Shinn ear­lier this month ubout buying a 50-pcrccnt sharn of the NBA rranchise, according to omcials with tlH) !lonrnts and the league. 
"At this stage, how.ever, the discussions am vPry prnlimi­nary and I am unsure whether I will be ab!P to make an invrstmrnt on terms that are acreptabln tu me," .Jordan said. 
llorne1s offirials were not 
talking Monday about Jordan\; rmnarks. 
.Jordan, who grow up in Wilmington au<l starred at tlrn University of North Carolina. said staying involvod in the ;\113;\ "would be a fulfilling per­sonal and husiness challenge." 
"In addition, us a North Carolina native, I would wel­comP the opportunity to lw involved in growing the Hornets into an elitfl NBA team," Jordan said. "It would be premature to corn1mrnl. any further" 
Jordan also has met with .John Fenncbresquc, chairman of' a commithrn that is trying to 
Prngn.un in Science. .;146 o·~haughnes.sy Tee fm( ,1ngy, and Varuc~ l Tniver.sity of Notre Dmnc 
(219) 6:11-5015 Notre Dcunc, IN 4655(, 

THIRTY IMPORTANT QUESTIONS ABOUT SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, AND V4LUES 
h thN~ 1t•alty ~ul"h a rhin~ wt 1~ehnolov:kal f'rogress ('f j.., it ju~t a nil'c n1ffnc for ,,.·h~1teve1 haJ)pens'' 
Jluw 1.:a11 we be sure whal ..,dcnti.'-.t~ ~my is true·.' I~ lh(!n: a sun.~ way to prove 
1h.. • ~t~1ll'llll!n1... t>f .'oci~nl:e·! 
1 f>oc.., 1,.·0111ptl1crin.t1ion pos~ uny "it!Yiou:,. morn! prnhltrn~·-' 
'-How ha\'t: the lCt:hnolug1cul devcinpm-c-1H!lo of 1110(11,,•rn society aff~L'tet.l social 
'1-IIUl'tlliC",' ~ 1111w do nm dt.•fmltion, Pl what h, '-oick a111l whal i!<> normal reflecl ,;.nci~1l 
t.'IHlVelltllHii\-'1 
h 1low far ha!it. The t.·nm ,c· or \.\-i::"~la1..•n1 "i..:it.'ncc heen the i.unas!',ing or f,u.:t.'>; how t'ai h~1.., ir hecn ..i c.:hangl" .n wuys ot viewing the v.orltl'.1 
N Are t1m.lcnlcvelupt.•d L'LHmtrie!-. de~tined to ftillow th!! .... ame steps uf indus11ial 1level11p111L'ut th..11 have been fl,llowe<l by the U.S. and We~tt!rn Europe".' ') I low are changes in leehnolog}' retlectetl in llL>Vels, poems, an<l the visu.al art::;'.' 10 ltow du p~1ll~n,·~ cun;.:eprion:. of llln~s:. cJtffl!'r from d,lctor'!-i cnm,:eprions. ut 
dt!'..t"ilS-e'_I 
11. Do m,11.·hmcs ~erve u:-. or do we ~erve ma\.'.hines'.' 
12. tfow l11d rndu:o.,triuli;ution change the way ordinary people liveU and worked'! 
13. Jluw arc we IO rc~pond t\l the possihility of human doning,'! 
1-L Wha, srn1"io of ethknl pn,blems wifl ND grn<luoHe~ tikely encounter u.:; they enter lt!t.·h1111l,•~it.:ally•inte11!.ive car-e~rs? · 
15 Arc ..cicnL·e un<l C'hch,ttunily antithetical, um.:onnet.:te-U, or cn-ev<itved anti co­cvolvi11g·.' 
16 fipw is ..,dentitic re~earch ft1mled in differenf L'Ot.mlries·.1 Who :,;houltl ded<le resean:h pri11ritics"? 
17. Arc the nunu1e eutioe~ hypothe:-.ir.cd by phy.:.iusls r~aJ ur are th.:!Y simply t;im....1rncts that ·•save the: pbenrn11e11a," 1,r fil the observation~? 
I 8 floes oh.st':""rvmion tlept"11d on •h~ory·_l J9. ls :scie1h;e valoe-1\eutn.lr.1 

22 Ilow do medic.:al sy,..,rems and healing professiuns c.hffer in vartous L'.Ultures an.mm! the wor-!ti-_, 
23. Can human behavior-(and humanne~s) be re<luced lo bim.:hemical or geneti(;.al explanation~? 
2--1-. \-Vhy Jid religious people bi.::come upse! with the fln<ling.'i of 0~1lileo unLI Darwin? 
25. C'a.n there be more than one satisfac1ory explanation for any given ser of observati«ms·.~ 
26 I~ marhe[natics the language nf sciem::e'? Is ii rhe only language of science? rs it lhe language of ult science? 
27. Does. the v.ust t1oo<l of technical publications, and the accompanying special• i;-.utinn it tlem.um.ls. pose a problem"! 
2M. In tet::hnDlogicn1 cnntruversies, is it pos..o.;ible to separate moral issues from sdenrificuH; soluhle let..:hnica1 issues? 
29. How do we solve the 4uestions of distributive justice that arise with new 
lechnulogtes"! 
30. Can a technological society be a democratic society'.' 
EXPLORE THESE QUESTIONS BY BECOMING AN STV CONCENTRATE. FOR INFORMATION INQUIRE AT 346 O'SHAUGHNESSY OR AT www.nd.edu/-reilly/. 
devidoping a new downtown 
arena, Tlrn Charlotte Observnr 
rnported. 
Fennebresque did not imnrn­
diatcly r11turn nH1ssag1is lpf't at 
his Charlotte oflict) on Monday. 
Tlw Chicago Sun-Timns, quoting unidnnlilind sourr:Ps in an artid(1 Sunday. said Jordan and l•alk wnre in lhn Bahamas, discussing tlw movn l'rom rotirncl player to part-timo owner. 
"If' this is something Michael wants to do, 1·111 all l'or it because hn's 1iariwd tlw right to do whal11v1\r he wants lo do," Bulls chairman .lnrry HPinsdorf told tlw ,wwspapnr ov11r tlw wonk,rnd. "I also hnlicv<! lw would rnak,~ u good ow111!r. lln is good at I\V1iry­thing Im dons. 
"Michael is VPry bright and has very good insight into things that lw focusos 011. So, I'm sum Im would lw a plus." 
I lornet.s ollicials :mid that 110 firm dat<is had lw1111 snt for Uw two sides to rne1it again but that both partins had agrend lo stay in touch ov<ir ttw coming weeks. 
Shinn was grantnd an expan­sion l'ranchisP !'or $32.5 million und was nwercd in Charlotte when llrn llornds made their debut in 1988. Now, lrn's got­ten tlrn reputation for refusing to play the big 111onoy to k1wp top playnrs -tlrn Ilonrnts lost stars Alonzo Mourning and Larry Johnson from a wam that one!' appParnd 011 its way to the top. 
Coach Dav1) Cownns resignnd in frustration this month, and fans have bnnn staying away with altnndancn dropping tlw past year. Jordan's prnsencn would be a big boost imnwdi­ately to thn lagging f'ranchisP, evnn if it was from tlrn hoard room and nol. tlw court. 
:-:,_ . . --·-· -.•-.,_, 
.. ue
homes Avallable 11,
Aslowas$282.00 
APPIJlldaVI 
._IIA11artm111s 
~8124 
¦ 

N \ 'Prolud~ to ~enefit O~Mit1~\llt m~pn1 Sponsored By 
R~~­

-
Tuesday, March, 30, 1999
-
¦ TRACK 
Irish run, jump, 
throw to top-10 
By BRIAN HOBBINS Sporrs Writcr 
The Notre Dame Men's and Women's track teams started the season succf'ssfully in Stanford lhis weekend. 
In one of the nation's most prestigious meets the team claimed seven top-lO finishes. 
JoAnna Deeter stole the show and set a Notre Dame record. running the 10.000-meter in 32 minutes, 53.95 seronds for a sixth-place finish. She broke the record sr.t bv fellow distance runner Allis(m Klemmcr who placed 1:1ighth at Stanford. just behind DPetf'r at :H:'19.19. Nicole LaSallt' alsu placed 18th in the <Wf!llt. 
Hyan Shay's time of 29:01.59 was good for a 12th place finish in the ml'-n·s I 0,000. 
.t\ntonio Ar1;p dairned another top ten place for the team, nab­bing ninth-pla1;i> honors in the 5000-meter with a time of 13:55.98. 
.'\rce attributes his success to 
leg and speed work during the 
indoor season, 
"L<'g work helped for the oul­door season because we got a base during winter break, then you focus on speed work in the indoor season and by outdoor it feels easier when you are G1 and 62 second laps," he said. 
Arce was also excited about 
running with professionals and 
looks to continue his success 
throughout the outdoor season 
building up to a likely NCAA 
appearance. Ryan Maxwell also 
placed 35th in the event in a 
tough field. 
Patty Rice represented the 
women in the 3000-meter 
where she earned a 27th place 
finish. 
Following the example of 
Deeter and Klemmer, Nadia 
Schmiedt claimed third-place 
honors in the 400-meter hurdles 
in a race that came down to the 
finish. Her time of 59.34 sec­
onds is indicative of good things 
to come as this is the first time 
she has run her'specialty race. 
"Seeing other girls right there 
makes you forget how tired you 
are and focus on the finish line," 
Schmiedt said. 
Derek Dyer and Jay Hofner 
rounded of group of Irish top-10 finishers claiming 10th and eighth place in the shot put and hammer throw. respectively, 
Dyer, a freshman was excited about such a big finish bUl gave all the 1;redit to his throwing buddies. 
"My teammates were there to push, me and to llelp carh other throw," Dyer said. 
While Dyer and his contingent or the team were working in Palo Alto, the other members of thf' team traveler! to WPst Lafayette for tho Purdue Invitational. In a meet that boasted big schools such as Purdue. l\larquetln and Eastern Michigan. the other half of the toum also made strides. 
Quill Redwine got h.is snason off to a good start, winning the triple jump at 45-feet, 9.25­inches. 
Redwine defined his up and down season as being plagued with injuries and admits he is not quite at full strength. Commenting 011 his jump Hedwine allowed for improve­ment: "That's nothing [49-feet, 9.25-inches]. I hope to get healthy again and continue with the assigned workouts, I'm still not at one hundred percent." 
Junior Mike Griewe and Mike 
Dreznes claimed first and sec­
ond place in the 10,000. 
Griewe's time of 31:51.18 was 
the first to break the finish line. 
while Dreznes linished live sec­
onds behind. 
The women's side also turned 
in strong performances, 
Jennifer Englehardt claimed first place honors in the high jump, clearing 5-feet 8-inches. Englehardt hopes to improve throughout the season. 
"You have got to start some­
where, I go into the outdoor 
season thinking of it as a clean 
slate, you can't rely on what you 
have done in the past," she said. 
Kelly Saxen placed second 
behind Englehardt with a jump 
of 5-feet, 5-inches. 
Jennifer Pavela won both the 
800-meters and the 1500­
meters with times of 2:16.6 and 
4:36.94. 
"It was a hard transition [to 
outdoors] after being indoors for 
two to three months, but I am 
happy with the first race back," 
she said. 
MASTER 
YOUR CAREER 
DESTINY! 

~. COME TO THE SELF-ASSESSMENT WORKSHOP! 
Emu:pru:tworksbop -Attendance to all is str~Il.C!l.U.f~ Limited space -Sign up in advance at Career and Placement Services (1-5200) 
When: Thursday, March 18, 4:00 -5:15 p.m. Where: DeBartolo Hall -Room 213 
When: Thursday, March 25, 4:00 -5:15 p.m. 
Wednesday, March 31, 4:00-5:15 p.m. ... Thursday, April 8, 4:00 -5: 15 p.m . 
Where: DeBartolo Hall -Room 116 Presented by Olivia Williams, Assistant Director 
Career and Placement Services 
The Observer • SPORTS page 14 
Baseball 
continued from page 20 
now stands at seconrl place on the all-time Irish home run list with 41, two behind injured teammate Jeff Wagner. 
Ust is also 1;hasing the sin­gle-season home run record of 20, st~t by E<rank Jacobs in 1991. 
In the nightcap, the Irish sent seven pitchers lo the mound in a 17-1 loss. The defeat snapped their 11-game winning streak, which includ­ed 10 straight road wins, the third longest road winning streak in Irish hist.orv. The offense only managed tfve hits on the day, while the pitching staff allowed 17 hits. 
Despite the loss against Hutgers, Irish hflad coach Paul Mainieri was pleased with his team's performance. 
"We had an 11-game win­ning streak, which I'm extremely proud of. because all those games -with the exception of one -took placn away from home, We general­ly make our run in the month of April when we play a lot of home games," said Mainieri. 
"I feel like we're ahead ol' schedule this year and I foe! really good about the way our guys have been playing. They've been playing with a high level of enthusiasm and intensity," he said. "The pitch­ing has been fantastic, our defense has been equaled and our offense is really coming along. I fool really good about where we are." 
Wisconsin-Milwaukee brings a 6-13 record into today's game, after sweeping thnir last two doubleheaders against Western Illinois and 13radley. All 19 Panther games have been on the road, J.ast Wednesday, the Panthers swept Bradley by 12·10 and 8-2 margins. 
Multi-dimensional star Chad Sadowski pitched the first f'ivti innings in the first game, in which he recorded two double and four RBI. In tho second game, Andy Neary pitched a complete game six-hitter. allowing only one earm)d run. 
Sophomore Mike Naumann will take the mound for the 
Irish against the Panthers. Naumann has seen action in four gamos. and has a 1-0 record with a 2.57 EHA on the season. 
Mainicri understands the importance of this game, which will set the tone for thn upcoming weekend's double­headers against Big East rivals Providence and Connecticut. 
"These midweek games, evcrn though they're not Big East conference games, are extrnrnely important. II' WP are successful in rnidwoek games throughout the year, it givP-s us a chanr,c to be close to that 40 win mark which, in turn, puts us in position to be considerod f'or an NCAA bid," said Mainieri. 
"Tho thing that you need to guard against is to be aware of any kind of a lntdown because tlwse games am very important to us," hn said. "Wlrnn tho encl of' the year rolls around. we'll look back at thesn midw11ck games and either know that they help11d us get into the NC.AA tourna­1111111 tor would potentially have hurt our chances." 

THE PERFECT COUPLE. NOW JUST $1.99. 
Righcnov.r,Americas Favorite Burgcr,the WHOPPER,"andameiliumordcrofthe KING OF FRIESN are only $1. 99. Hurry in, because although they're perfect together, this deal won't last a lifetime, 
The Huddle -Lafortune Student Center 
BURGER 
KING 
It just tastes better;· 
FOR A LIMITED TIME ONLY. PRICE ANO PARTICIPATION MAY VARY. 
Ci1998 BURGEA KING COAPOAATJON. THE 6URGER KING CORPORATION IS THE: EXCLUSIVE LICENSEE OF THE KING OF FRIES AND "IT JUST TASTES BETTER" TAA0EMARKS AND THE REGISTERED WHOPPER AND BLIN HALVES LOGO TRADEMARKS 
www.burgerking.com 
page 15 _________ The Observer• SPORTS Tuesday, March 30, 1999 
¦ BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXVIII 
..
Commision announces top bookstore teams for 1999 
Bookstore Basketball XXVIII 
1. 
Primetime 

2. 
Keyplay.com 

3. 
Malicious Prosecution 

4. 
En Fuego 

5. 
Whoameye! 

6. 
The Chosen 

7. Watch Out For The Hook 

8. 
Majesties 

9. 
Don't Feel Bad, Everybody Can't Wi 


½,
10. Coco-Butter 
Tbf, C~~rvefl~cott Hiirdy 
By KERRY SMITH 
Sports Wrirer 
After much deliberation and debate, the 1999 Bookstore Basketball Tournament com­mission announced its ranking of' the top 32 teams Monday. 
Sign-ups for this year's tour­nament ended Friday, leaving the commission with 581 regis­tered teams f'rom which to select. 
"We used a system of' players and commissioners with expe­rience to rank the teams," sai.d senior commissioner Julia Daytnn. "We scouted out play­ers and teams during p.ick-up basketball games around cam­pus to got a feel for their abili­ty." 
The commission spent several hours analyzing team dynamics and comprising this year's rankings. 
"We penciled in teams and then thAy wMe shifted from position to position," said senior head commissioner Brendan Poe. "We looked at how the teams matched up against each other and came up with the list." 
Heading the list b last year's 
I· 0 R t I, r E ll l' C A T I O :,. 

"TIAA-CREF sets the standard in the financial services industry:' 
-Morningstar* 
AAA 
-S&P and Moody's rating tor TlAA** 
" ... America's Top Pension Fund." 
--Money Magazine, January 1998 
IDGH MARl(S FROM MORNINGSTAR, S&P, MOODY'S, MONEY MAGAZINE AND BILL. 
""\'l Te take a lot of pride in gaining 
V V high marks from the major rating services. But the fact is, we're equally proud of the ratings we get every day from our participants. Because at TIAA-CREF, ensuring the financial futures of the educa­tion and research community is something that goes beyond stars and numbers. 
We became the world's largest retire­ment organization by offering people a wide range of' sound investments, a commitment to superior service, anJ operating expenses that are among the lowest in the insurance and mutual fund industries.*** 
With TIAA-CREF, you'll get the right choices -and the dedication-to help you achieve a lifetime oF financial goals. The leading experts agree. So does Bill. 
TIAA-CREF can help you build a com­fortable, financia~y secure tomorrow, with tax-deferred annuities, mutual funds, lRAs, insurance and more. 
To find out more, call us at I 800 842-2776. 

·www.tiaa-cref.org 
Ensuring the future 
for those who shape it."" 
•sourer· 
Mon1111io1ar, In<, l1rin4:1p1.:i V11n.-b!t An,,11u1ln/Ufr U/3l/tJ8. ••Thr~ tor r,1,tinp..~ :i.n: ba~don TlM's e,c,cptinrn.l foum::1al strength, cWl'n~·paying absht}' a.nd O\'rraU operanng pcrfomuncc: 

•'•f;,t11Htla,-tl 
& Pcr,r'1 J,nu,.,m H.•11·'t" A,ur/wu, ](}C,Jlfil; 1J)'r,er As,:!lj'tk:;al Strvke1, Inc.. r.ipptr•1>imtnrr' A11a!vt1u,J ,,a,11.199& (Quanerh·). Tt~i\.-CRP.'.F lndi,-idwal :u1d Jm,ti1utional ~rvkt'1, Int'. du.1rib~tu CkLF rnt,li,:ah~• aml imrretta m 1h" TlAA lu.11.l l"..at;.tc Acrnunt. Tcach,ra 1'er1olkll lnvc11ort Sc:rvke,, lnc. d111ributu. 1h" TIAA-CH.l:.F Mutual l'und&. 


t'or 11\Qtt' 1·t1111J)lt1t' information, inch.1J,ng 4:h11.qp1 and ex~nH¦, pleur ull IOT' pro1~thlttl, Rud thl'm an/'ully before you inw,1 ur Hnd mant"y To rrque¦I pr01ptcluH1, nil I 800 8'42-2733, ext. 5609 lnwt1mr1,t1 in M!'t"Ur111"1 ,uch Jll mutual fond1 an,1 variable annu,t1H an• 1,ubjrc·1 to «mi.in ri!k11, induding thl' poa,1l,l, lo•~ of prinLipaL 1/99 
champion, Primetimc, which returns four of live players and is looking for a repeat tourna­mf'nt victory. 
"We're pleased to be ranked number one," said senior team member Hamn Jani. "\,Ve havo four returning players and have worked hard to get ready this year." 
Primetime's roster includ(is Jani. the 1998 tournament MVP, Kevin Hughes and Garrett Ganskf', as well as Steve Craig. Also returning to the Prirnetime line-up from two years ago is Mike Empey, who was sidelined last year with a broken leg. 
Primetime's three-guard stylo of play, relying on quickness am.I outside shooting, should bu a potent combination for chal­lengers to handle. 
Primetimc will face tough competition from lhe second and third seeds Keyplay.com and Malicious Prosecution. 
S1rnior AlDx Gese leads thn roster for No. 2 Keyplay.rom. Gese earned First Team All­Bookstore honors after an out­standing performance in last year's tournament. 
"Any team that has Alex Gesc on it is a team that will be in the hunt for championship," said Jani. "Keyplay.com is going to be an extremely tough team in the tournament." 
Malicious Prosecution at the No. 3 spot will also be a con­tender for the championship. Law student Jeremv Cole returns to the tournameiit, with First Team All-Bookstore hon­ors from last year and looks to lead the team to the finals. 
Junior Tom Dietrich, a stand­out in last year's tournament on Your Mom, will be a advan­tageous addition to the Malicious Prosecution line-up. 
"We've played against 
Malicious Proseculiun," said Jani. "They should be roally strong this year. I like the way we match-up size-wise with them. They're a tough hunch of guys." 
The top teams in this year's tournam1mt am comprised of strong and talented playnrs. 
"This is the highest quality set of top-32 teams I've snen in my four years," said Pon. "Teams that are ranked in this year's 10-20 spots arn toams that normally would br. consid­ered final four co11t()11ders in other vears." 
Out ·of the thousands of bas­ketball players registered f'or th<' tournament, manv Notre Darno varsity athletes havn entered to making a nrn for tlw championship. 
Senior Irish center Phil Hickey will lend his talent to l'ourth-ranked F11 Fungo. 12th­ranked Still Crackr.rs has senior Irish l'ootball players Mike Hosenthal and Tim Riddt)r in its lin1\-UJ). Don't Feel Bad, Everybody Can't Win, ranked at number nine, has seniors Bobby lloward, Lamont Bryant and Jamie Spencer on the ros­ter, while Coco Butter, coming in at the lOth spot is highlight­ed by freshman tailback Tony Fisher and sophomore tight end Jabari llalloway. 
Senior dcl'ensivr. end Antwon Jones and freshman flanker David Givens will test their bas­ketball skills with the 13th­ranked Thugs. Juniors Eric Chappell and Haki Nelson are on the roster for No. 14 Chanel and seniors Bobby Brown and Malcom Johnson will be playing for the 17th-ranked Nelson's. 
At the No. 21 spot, Makalani's Soldiers will be comprised of sophomores Tony Driver and Kurt Vollers along with senior /\'Jani Sanders. 
Bball 
continued from page 20 
source familiar with the process told the Chicago Tribune that Malloy directed the questioning on Sunday and touched on Prosser's professional and per­sonal lives, his family and acad­emic issues. 
Xavier athletic director Mike Bobinski said he didn't know ii' l\otre Dame met with Prosser on Sunday or if Notre Dame extended an oniH". 
According to Gonzaga athlPtic director Mikn Hoth, Bulldog head coach Dan Monson also met with Notrn Damn ol'licials over the weekend to discuss the coaching vacancy .. 
"I would havn rather not got­ten the call," Hoth said. ''I'd rather keep him, but I can't say I'm surprised lthat Notrn Dame asked permission to spnak with Monson I. If' I'm an AD out thern, I want to look at Dan Monson with what hn's bnen able to do at Gonzaga." 


Fine Art Workshops May 17-29, 1999 

.... 
3 credit courses in ceramics, fibers (smc-core credit), painting & sculpture 
sponsored by Department of Art, Saint Mary's College call 284-4655/284-4631 
REGISTER TODAY! 
Page 1Ci The Obser ~r. PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, March 30, 1999 
-
Freshman Retreat:;#23 (April 9­
10) Sign-up · i~~?­Continuing week 01;·March 26, 103 Hesburgh Lib~~ty, 112 Badin Hall, or see your hall rector 

Targeted Dorms; Badin. Br l;!Wips, Keough, Knott, Lyons, Pasquerila Ea~f~t~ford, Welsh 

--Sign-up for "W~ 
e Future of This RelationstQ April 11 Continuing wee~;,tt 112 Badin Hal~ An opportupity ues 

Hol Thursd 
9:00a.m... •-> __··· .• 
s:oo·•--p.,ni..:.. ,,5y Lord's SUf)pe'r:· 6:30p. ..... ·.__ .·.···· ... ··•·. Chapel 11:00p 
•-' .. · =·__-.;._ i(/"':;,,: .-._ 
cc.·--. 
12:DONoon••· 
Hours of PrayerY 3:00p.m. -CelebratiO-tl"O !l Lord's Passion 
7:15 p.m.. --._-•-Stations&t•t 
. ---·:,')-' 
Hol Saturda 
9:00 a.m. -_ Mornitlt;·:Pt~Y. 9:00p.m~ --The RascnaF:~r 
i%'.:_ 
w , .. 
noon -Eastef,8t:Jt1pay,;,y > -·7::LS,p",;m, ~---Easter,¥ 
Campus-Wide Stations of the Cross ... Why Bother? Kevin P. Kiefer (Stations Team Member) 
For four years now I have been traveling through the Notre Dame experi­ence. I have journeyed with friends, family, a wonderful girlfriend and many others here at the school of Our Lady. I have been progressing toward my goal of graduation and finding my place in this world. It has had its ups and downs, but I treasure every minute of my journey here at Notre Dame. However, I don't think that I truly understood the words "Success is a jour­ney, not a destination," until recently. For the traveling I have undertaken has formed the person who I am today, and in many ways that is more important than the destination of my diploma. 
Among my most treasured memories arc my many walks around cam­pus. ·whether it was to "take it all in again" at the beginning of an academic year, to enjoy the beauty of the campus lakes, or just to talk to someone, these walks had meaning. And it was much more than getting from point to point. Often it was a chance for me to do some of my best and deepest thinking about life's toughest issues. Other times it was no more than a chance for bull sessions. On these walks I have smiled, laughed out loud, cried, and been stone silent. Yet at the end of each one, I was changed in some small way. 
But I haven't only taken scenic walks. I have walked with others in a dif­ferent sense. And it is through each of these little journeys, these little para­digm shifts, these "walks," that I have been formed as a person here at Notre Dame. Many of us have been formed in the same way. Each individual experience has its own powerful meaning. Those talks with section mates until 3:00 a.m. about every conceivable topic: helping a roommate go through the withdrawal after a breakup with a hometown honey; struggling with academic and life decisions; football Saturdays; dorm masses. These experiences shape the way we think and feel. The more "walks" we have taken, whether literally or figuratively, the more we have grown. 
But it wasn't the end result that we were necessarily looking for. It wasn't a destination. No, we enjoy those talks until 3:00 a.m. because we love to open ourselves to one another, not because we want to lose sleep. It isn't just the final score on a football Saturday we remember, but the whole day, from being awakened by the band's music to swimming in Stonehenge. It isn't the destination that fulfills us, but the very journey, the walk, itself. 
Tonight, we have a chance to take a transformational walk with someone very special in the annual Campus Wide Stations of the Cross. We have a chance to journey with hundreds of our peers, rectors, professors, and com­munity members. Tonight we will walk around this campus in one of the most meaningful, powerful journeys people have: we will pick up our cross and follow Jesus. Like many of our other walks, we will not so much remember the stops on campus, but the reality that we traveled with Jesus. We walked with Him. We listened to reflections on His passion. We exam­ined our own lives. 
Many people have a fear of carrying the cross. They feel as if it will be too much. But we should remember that Christ's yoke is light and his burden sweet. I love what one of the Constitutions of Holy Cross says: "The foot­steps of those men who called us to walk in their company left deep prints, as of men carrying heavy burdens. But they did not trudge; they strode. For they had hope. It is the Lord Jesus calling us. 'Come. Follow me.'" 
This evening, I am planning to take one of my final nights as an under­graduate student to take a walk. I want to walk as a child of the Light; I want to follow Jesus. As Christians, we have a marvelous hope in the pas­sion, death, and resurrection of our Lord. So tonight, as part of our final Lenten preparabon for the celebration of the greatest mysteries of our faith, won't you walk with us? Will you respond to the call of Jesus? Will you 
walk with Christ? 
Spes Unica. 
I¦
0MPUS 
MINISTRY 
Monday, March 30, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 17 
¦ TRACI< ¦ PROFESSIONAL TENNIS 
Relays prove to Fans hungry for more Williams 
be fast for SMC 
By MOLLY McVOY A-.sisl,int Spuns F.dicor 
Tlw lklh~s• track lmun turrwd ill a1101lwr strong 1wrformancc Saturday al till' llu11ingto11 Bdays. 
"ll w,LS a gn~a! Plforl by .di," said h1•ad cnal'h Larry Sz1·z1•chowski. "I thought wn ail ran vny WPII. l W,Ls plPasPd with our rr•sulls." 
Faring Lough Division I. 11 and Ill cornpPtilion, tlw Saint Mary's disL111c1· a11d lidd 1.<i11ms rnp1·at­1HI llw sun·1'.ssf'ul pnrf'orrrn111cPs ll11•y showPd at last wrnk's 
lllPl'l.. 
Tlw 400-mPtnr rplav, a lf•am of' fr1•shnwn l:lisab11ti1 Clinger, ,\frn).{han S1~ilk()p and E111ily llrPyPr and sophomorP Kisria Born. plac1!d lil'lh ovnrall wllh a linw of 4 mim1Ws. ;i(,.Ci s1,co11ds. Al'tPr sPnior 1:aplain Stacy Davis s11ffl'l'Pd a !Pg injury just min­lltPs lwfon· llw ran\ Uw squad l'a1·1·d adiliti()nal prnsst1rP in 1h1•ir first rolh•g1,-lt,vnl cornpPti­lions tog-PtlH'r. 
TIH• B1•lli•s' middle and long distan1·1• runn<'l'S also far('(f well with llw clislurH:!' nwdley plac­ing sixlh. l>rnynr, junior Wendy Cnal, f'rnsh111a11 Mnaglian SPilkop and sophomor!' (;1•1Hwi1w1• Yavnllo comprised thP tnam. whirh has lrnrn 
strong since inrloor track s1rn­
s1111. 
"Wt; hav1; a rnally good chance this year to d() better than WI' nwr have before," said Clingnr. "I think, 1!s1wcially, our miln rnlay is really strong." 
l>istanc11 tnams wnre 11ot tlrn only tnams to display thrir tal­m1ts al lluningto11. 
Tlw 100-nrnwr rday team of Davis, f'rPshman Stnphanie Hoth, senior Sarah Gallaglwr and freshman Erica DeVoir lin­islwrl firth with a time of 5:~.6 srn:onds. 
Tlw triple jump rPlay biam ol' lhNoir and Gallaglwr turned in a fourth plac11 linish. continuing lasts week's succoss. 
Tc;am mtm1lrnrs and coaches 11ttrihut1• tlm early successes to co()pPration and teamwork. 
"Training is important," said Cnat. "but its morP about team­work, I love il because everyonn cheers you nn and we are all rnally supportivn ol' one anoth­
or." 
The Belles facn tlwir first con­ft-rnnce match-up on W1\dnesday at Calvin Collrgc versus Calvin and Adrian College. No members of the Mli\A havu run any conferences m1\cts to date, so Wednrsdav's contest will be the lirsl indica­tor of the upcoming season, 
ARE YOU READY FOR SOME FOOTBALL? 
The Observer is the source for your spring practice news and inside information. 
Associated Press 
KEY BISCAYNE, rta. 
Tennis fans, tournament pro­moters and Serena Williams are ready for a rematch. 
Richard Williams wants to recover from Sunday first. 
As the li.tthor of' the finalists at tho Lipton Championships, Williams aclmiltnd that thn occa­sion was omot.io11ally wrenching. IIP led thn chonrs at the start of tho match and was in his seat al thn finish, when Vnnus completed a (i-1. 4-(i, h-4 victory for lrnr soc­om! consecutiVP Liptirn title. 
But during the match, Hiclmrd·s thoughts turnrid to the poor ndghhorl10od in Compton, Calif., where the family lived bcforo moving to Florida ii1 1991. The memories stirred his emo­tions and snnt him out tho stadi­um tunnnl f'or a calming ciga­rette. 
Willimns' hands shook during a news conference the day before Serena played big sister Venus, and he wasn't much cahner at a news conference after thn match. 
"We're usnd lo being on the r,ornor in Compton when; peopln are shouting and doing drugs," ho said. "This is very strange to me, sitting up hern and you peo­ple talking to me. I actually foci like a fool." 
The sibling showdown aUract­ed altnntion from tho internation­al media. Tlrny'rn eager for a rnmatch, but they'll have to wait, because Serena and Venus aren't scheduled lo play the same tour­nament again until the Italian Open in early May. 
The consensus, however, is that Sunday's Williams-Williams final could be the first of rnanv. 
Venus, 18, is ranked sixth this week. Serena, 17, is a career­high 11th. Dad predicts they'll eventually be 1-2, and his opinion counts, bccaus(; he said years ago that his daughters were destined for greatness, 
"The first time I ever took 

If you need to do some catching up or want to get a jump on fall, summer classes at Holy Cross College may be just the ticket. Choose one or both sessions, each offering a wide variety of quality general education courses. And pay our summer tuition rate of just $170 per credit hour. 
Take advantage of exceptionally small classes, a dedicated and caring faculty, and our convenient location just to the west of the University of Notre Dame campus. Credit earned is transferable. And on-campus student housing is available. 
You'll enjoy summer activities even more, knowing that you're also getting ahead in your studies. Write or call Holy Cross College today. Applications for Summer Sessions I and II, as well as for the 1999 Fall Semester, are now being accepted. 
Session I -May 17 to June 24 

Venus to the tennis court, I walked home and told my wife, 'Baby, we have a champion, This girl is rough, tough, strong and mentally sound. Those arc the four qualities all champions have."' 
How old was Venus at the time? 
"Four years, six months and one day," her dad said. "At five­years old, I took the racket out of' her hand. I wouldn't let her play for a year because she loved it too much." 
Serena started playing at about the same age, and she benefited from such practice partnnrs as John McEnroe and Pet1; Sampras. 
"Becausn Ser1ma couldn't beat those l,'llys with power, she had to learn to do angles and drop shots." Hir.hard Williams said. "Right now. I think Serrnrn is hit­ting angles and drop shol<; belttir than anyone." 
But will she overtake Venus? Serena trails 3-0 in the sibling rivalry, and there's division with­in th,~ li.tmily mgarding how many tournaments she and Vnnus should ent1ir together. 
Richard Williams said he once paid a psychiatrist to study the effects when sistnrs play each othor. 
"We learned that Wnnis is the only game that's nxlrmndy rough on a family," he said. 
But he said his daught1~rs arP old enough to dncide for them­selves which events lo enter. 
"We'II be in a lot of the sanw tournanwnts," Venus said. 
"We'rn Jehovah's Witnesses, and wn really lwlieve that family conrns first," Seretrn said. "No mattnr how many tinws we play each other, I could rwver say that it would affect my relalio;1ship with Venus." 
ANEW ERA 
of Irish men's basketball begins 
TODAY. 
THE OBSERVER 
will be there with 11111 coveraue. 
HOLY CROSS 
*COLLEGE 
Office ofAdmissions 
P.O. Box 308 • Notre Dame, IN 46556
Session II -June 28 to August 5 
(219) 239-8400, ext. 22 • Fax (219) 233-7427 
e-mail: vduke@hcc-nd.edu 
-

-------.­
r 
page 18 The Observer• SPORTS Monday, March 30, 1999 
¦ TENNIS 
-.. 

Belles skunk Adrian Fightin' Illini beat Fightin' Irish 
By BRIAN KESSLER off Sachire and Brian "lle's a high-ranked player, 
Spans Editor Patterson, 8-5. The Illinois but I think my teammates and
for 2nd straight year 

my coach Bxpect more out of' 
JllO." 
Illinois swept No. :{-5 singles to secure the victory. Laski. .Jakub Tcply and Mik(1 Kosta defeated Daly. Andrnw Laf'lin and Smith. respectively. 
Notre Dame's Andy Warford, however. was a 6-1. 0-6, 6-4 winner over Arnaud Lantin at No. 6 singles. 
"This has been a season in which we've lost so many close matches," Sachirn said. "Every singlll match has gone down to thn wire and tlwrn were a l'Pw that wn feel we should have won. We have to hope some of those rnatclws start to go our way. 
"We know wn hav(~ thn tal­ent to be a really good team," Sachire continued. "We're going to try to go out tlrnre and win tlrn remainder of our rngular-sr:ason matches." 
The Irish will look to snap their thren-match losing streak when thny hnad tu Purdue to take on the Boilermakers nnxt Monday. 
:Jlz'I. 
VARSITY SHOP 
3:00 pm 
4:00 pm 
5:00 pm 
3:30 pm 
12:00 pm 
10:00 am I 3:00 pm 
12:00 
pm 

12:00 
pm 


All day 
By ANGELA FOX 
Spurts \vrircr 
The Saint Mary's tennis team executed an exciting win over Adrian Collf'ge 9-0. matching their score from last year's meeting. 
With a prndominantly young team. the Belles display much talent despite their lack of experience. 
One of two freshmen in the lineup, Annie Knish turned in a 6-0, 6-0 performance at No. 2 singles and won with Katie Vales at No. 1 doubles. 
"Wr: are playing smarter," said freshman Tavlor Jarrin. "There is lots o(talent and ·expBrience on tlrn team." 
In singles play. the Saint Mary's squad saw wins across the board from No. 1 Katie Vales (6-0, 6-0), No. 2 Knish (6-0. 6-0), No. 3 Becky Kremer (6-0, 6-0), No. 4 Becky Gemmer (6-0, 6-0). No. 5 Jarrin (6-1, 6-1 ), No. 6 Krista Eastburn (6-1. 6-0). 
The doubles teams did just as well, with every team win­
::;~, 
¦ SPORTS BRIE · 
Weekend Racquetb 
RecSports for the Weeke on Friday and Satllt.'d!iY;> and your best game to .. . > 
Women's Divisiohs. Cost is.$ Wednesday, April 7. Balls will .be p given to all participants,, Refreshme .· information,·contact,theJt'eiSp<>rts.() 
:tr:-. . . 
Casting and Angling -CU~~<>. will be '~,tfored on ,April 6, 13 and 20 {Tuesdays), 6~7:15 p.mrin the Joyce. Center and Campus Lakes. $8 class fee. Hegister \9 'ad.vane~ ItecS ,Aoin Dan Bucha, certified American Casting Ass ·on 1ictor, for three evenings of bait-casting. fly-casting, spinning and fishing. Equipment will be provided but bringyour own rf possible. Contact RecSports at·631-6100 for more iruprmation,\ 
Kayaking -Register at RecSports · for f(ju} poo . . . sand a one-day excursion.. Classes will be held April 12, 15;,:J9 and 22 
at Rolfs Aquatic Center, 7-l0p.m. C · ·· d cost< is $15. Re.gistrati6h.pegiris 
3 y\ 
more questions, ple1,tse..call 

Work approx. 10 hrs. a week 
Must have knowledge of Macs & related Mac programs Prefer Sophomores Please apply in person by 16 April 1999 
in the Reilly Center, 346 O'Shag 
.... 
VARSITY SHOP
.... 
3/30 Tues. 
3/31 Wed. 4/1 Thurs. 4/3 Sat. 
.. 
ning. 
No. 1 Vales/Knish beat Beth Blonde and Karen Fuller (6-2. 6-3). No. 2 Kremer/Gemmer defeated Kelly Johncox and Nikki Nachtegall (6-2, 6-0). No. 3 Jarring/Eastburn beat Stephanie Vanlleest and Ky Vien (6-0. 6-2). 
Taylor said that the doubles teams have gotten stronger after playing a couple of matches together and hope that their improvement will gain them spots at the l'v1idwesl Invitational, a tournament to which no Belles teams were invited last year. 
"We hope to make it this year," Kremer said. "And the next couple of games will determine if we do." 
Saint Mary's will return to action against Hope College at home on Wednesday at 3 p.m. 
In previous years, the match­es between the Belles and the Flying Dutch have been close. With the teams evenly matched, this year's meet should display hard-fought competition. 
.•. 
Upcoming Athletic Events 
Men's Lacrosse Softball 
Baseball 
Women's Tennis Baseball Women's Tennis 
Baseball Softball 
Track and Field 
The sr:cond-ranked Illinois nrnn's tflnnis team used four third-set victories to hold off 2(ith-ranked Notre Dame 5-2 in Saturday's dual-match at the Courtney Tennis Center. 
"It was a really close match," All-American Ryan Sachire said. "Thev won the doubles point pretty convinc­ingly and then took all four of the singles matches that went to third sets." 
Thr doubles point has elud­ed the Irish in many of their recent matches. 
"It's been something we've started to get used to," Sachire said. "We haven't won a doubles point in awhile, but wfl've been able to comebark and win matches. It would be nice to get out to that 1-0 lead though, so we're looking to improve on that." 
Illinois boasts two of the best doubles teams in the country. At No. 1 doubles, The Fighting Illini's Cary Franklin and Oliver Freelove knocked 
Butler 
Butler 
Wisconsin-Milwaukee Illinois Providence (DH) Purdue/Illinois State Connecticut (DH) 
Pittsburgh 
Butter, Miami, W. Michigan 
duo of Jeff Laski and Jamal Parker then defratcd Trent Miller ·and Javier Taborga, 8­5, at No. 2 doubles to clinch the point. 
Notre Dame's Matt Dalv and Casey Smith were 9-8 (4) win­ners at No. 3 doubles. 
Patterson led the wav for Notre Dame in singles play. At No. 2, he upset 55th-ranked Franklin in straight sots, 6-3, 
6-4. 
"Brian just flat-out kicked his butt." Sachire said. "He's a heck of an outdoor player and he played really. really well on Saturday. Ile stepped up his play and dominated the match. He's been rnally tough to beat all season and might be one of the best No. 2 sin­gles players in the country." 
Sachirc. ranked second in the country, dropped his match at No. 1 singles to eighth-ranked Freelove. 
"I think this is the first time I've ever lost two-straight dual matches," said Sachire, who was defeated 6-4, 5-7. 6-4. 
Oeliv-el"i,rf Tk !kf!!!__t Rzza.1 @3@'3lu ~w@ @ . ©@~ l1rn@0(f]t3l~99  
9  12 Anytime Anytime you call between you call between 5:30 & 7:00, 10:30-12:59 9 the price of yourthe price of yourI 2 large 1 large 1 topping topping pizzas pizza is the time you call.is the time you call. * Plus tax* Plus tax  
r---runchSpecial---, 1 Small 1 Topping : I 2 Cans of Coca-Cola product I S . t M , /ND store 1 $5 _1 am ary s99L _____________ _.North Village Mall271-1177 271-PAPA  

------·--~-----------~------~ 
Tuesday, March 30, l 999 The Observer• TODAY page 19 
SLURRED SPEECH DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Loretta Swit. Pauline Trigere. 
YOU KNOW, Wf?I IN~ 1Ht/v iN£ /l>EA, fHE/J 'FJ/JALlY, I 1's 
A COMIC STRIP IS BOTH &,./OR DS A}/ EPITf{) ONE £..AS 1 
Markie Post, Walter Cronkite 
L EA5Y-.. 
CTt1RE 5, ARE 
FOXTROT 
k,._TI( MtSlfHA\£1) 50 I Toll) l,f~ •BUIE'S Mol'El'MAN~ SHE CCll.lU)t•fT C:l.11£S'.' T1-t1, MORNING. W,t,TC~ ~Yi'V "BlUE'S ( Ill! V10£()S 'lbOA"I' Cl.LI£ 
..,
WHILE 'Yt>u 
DILHERT 
OOGei£.RTI l"'\OM TOLD 6lll GA.i£.$ 5H£. USE.$ 
THE "L1NU~" O?E.RA.TlNG 5'<Sn:.M\ 
-r,/llfE ANT> t;eff 
Happy Birthday: You will delve into ,1II sorts of unusual causes this
"f"o PRE~S. 
year. Your ability to bring order where chaos has made its mark will enhance your pohularity and din•rt you to a leaders ip position. Your insight and adaptability will help you to make lhC' necessary changes. This will be a time to step forward and let your thoughts be known. Your num· bers; 4, JO, lII, 26, 37, 46 
A.RIES (March 21-April 19): Don't make money decisions before noon. Catch up on overdue correspondence. Get together with your lover for an evening of adventure and affecti()ll. 
You can accomplish your objectives thmugh communication. 000 TAURUS (April 20-May 20): New relation.~hips will enhance your popu• 
BILL AMEND 
"BLUE'S HEif "8LIIE'S SEE YbU 
larity and raise your se,lf-esteem. Talk
Cl11£S"! 
"'"~"IIMI'~ tl.ues·:• IN FIVE 

to superiors about yout goals. Do not 
·aLv['S ''11.uf's 
make financial promises to organiza­
., <'.wt~~· 
hons or to children. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Take one step at a time. Make your deci­
"8L11£'s 
' ~LVEs·:• 
sions carefully. Try to avoid confron­
"11.11n 
talions. Your emotional well-being
Clu£S':' 
will be unstable with regard to your
"Bl.Ul'S 
position in society. 000
cwrs:• 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Be prepared to counteract any personal affront that comes your way. It is best 
I 
~ 
lo stay calm regardless of the situa­lion that you face. Colleagues may be jealous of your accomplishments. 
0000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Organize work that mvolves grouh endeavors. Take the time to make t e necessary 1chone calls to ensure a good turnout 

or events for which you are partially
l WONO£R£.O WI-\'< 
rPsponsiblP. Be sure not to neglect 
your mate. 00
A PR£.S$ CONt='i::.R£.NC.[. 
65 Fret 66 Grandparents· 
stories, e.g. 67 English essayist 68 Prince Valiant's 
wife 69 Name on which ancient oaths were taken 10 Brother, aunt, etc.: Abbr. 11 Southernmost part of Arabia 
DOWN 
1 Smelting residue 2 Long lunch? 3 Son of Seth 4On 5 The Joker's 
portrayer on TV 6 Kemo Saba's 
sidekick 7On~-wilh e Ballerina·s skirt 9 U-235 or C-14, 
e.g. 10 •---relief 11 Orbital high 
point 12 Prior to 13 One who makes 
a scene? 21 Actress Bonet 22 Lacks, in brief 26 Belief in one 
God 21 Neon, e.g. 
Love" rock grp. 
A s K --+-+---+---1 29 Ungentlemanly sort 
VIRGO (A.ug 23-Sepl. 22): Put yo,ur c.ml•rgy intn your ran.~~r for nnw [),,n't m,1k,• decisit>ns regarding your perso11,1I life. Uncert.iinllL'S abt>ut your position in sotit"ty may cause fricl10n in your environment 00000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Ocl. 22): Oppor· tunilies to make extra cash may involve traveling a greater distancP. Conslder making residential moves. Changes in your domestic scene are likely. Acceptance will b•• the deter· mming factor. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Prop· Ntv inwstmcnts will be lucrative Chang~s in y,,ur home• L'ttvironm!'OI will prove to be advant.igcous. You can take care of the responsibilities and demands that others have left you with. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 2.1): [)c({'ption within relationships is like· ly. Get all the /acts in order to build a strong case. Try not to let your emo­tit>ns get the bMter of you. Get advice from somrone you trust. 000 
CA.PRICORN <Dec. 22-)an. 19): 
You can make professional changes 1 
or advancements by dealing with 
superiors Difficulties with females 
may prevail if ~ou aren't prepared to 
be secretive a out your inlt>ntions. 
00000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-l'eb. 18): You 
can learn new facts about a situation 
today. Spend time talkin1to people 
who can be objective a out your 
worries. Educational pursuits will be 
beneficiJ1 00 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Keep 
an open mind and don't let minor set­
backs discourage you. The uncertain­
ties re~arding fam~ members will ~ 
difficu t to deal wi if you aren't pre­
pared to accept the inevitable. 0000 
Birthday Baby: You have deep thoughts and will t>ften appear to be i~ another world. You recognize what is going on around you, but have a greate, 
WA.S BE.1.NG \-\£.UJ 
ON f:;.. 1--\\JGE 
respect for the big picture. You are a leader and you must be allowed to let you, goodness be a lesson for those who try to deceive you. 
CAiAf'ULT. 
I 
¦ OF INTEREST 
Successful Job Search Strategies -Seniors who are still looking for permanent employment should attend this workshop and learn the ins and outs of the job search. Discover what it takes to find and land that first permanent position. This workshop will be held today from 4 to 5 p. m. in the Notre Dame Hoom of LaFortune. Sponsered by the Career and Placement Center 
Class of 2000 ....... Interested in being on the senior class council and helping plan senior week? Pick up un application in LaFortune and return it by April 19. 
Democratization in Mexico -Sergio Aguayo of the Centro de Estudi.os lnternationales. El Colegio de Mexico will spoak on democracy in Mnxko today at 
4:15 p.m. in C-103 of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
Puzzle by Randy Sowell 
30 Newsstands 47 Competes 56 Congo river equally wilh 57 Catch but good
31 Laughing 48 Yellow and black 58 Part 
32 Code word for A 
cat 35 Seethe 
49 Salad stalk 59 City near Provo 
51 Bridge between 60 Museo holdings
37 Orchestra output buildings 61 Actress Cannon 
53 Library volume 63 Gender40 Sticky stuff 
41 Sea eagle 
42 Badly chapped Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone:
44 Trampled 
1-900-420-5656 (95,t per minute). 45 "The Hound of Annual subscriptions are available for the the Baskervilles'' best of Sunday crosswords from the last locale 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Do you love sports more than life itself? Do you think parietals are fine since you can still watch ESPN? Is March Madness giving ,vay to Spring Training Fever? Come write for the Observer Sports Department and use your sickness to benefit society. 
\." ­
• 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Wind ­(pilot's problem) 6 Comic actor Jacques 
10All 
14 How to play a dirge 15 Composer's work 16 Mimic 11Woo1t·s ··-of One's Own" 1e Peacekeeping force in Bosnia 19 Nol strict 20 Infallible fact 23 "There but for the Q.race of God 
24 Copacabana site 25 Westerns 
21 Small tropical lizards 31 Arrest record 
33Jai­34 Eisenhower's 
boyhood home 36 Biblical sin city 38 Klutz 39 Woods on the 
fairway 43 Paramaribo is its capital 
46Achy 
47 Halite 50 "Paper Roses" singer Marie 52 Strands, as by a 
winter storm 53 Just ducky 54 Speed: Abbr. 55 Rural route 62 Pub stock 64 Calf's meat 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

N c 

"We all start out in life with one thing in common; we all have the same amount of time. It's just 
a matter of what· we do with it."Harvey B. Mackay 
Entrepreneur & Author 
1he Arnerilat1 Co\\ege of ~port£> Medic.ine relommend5 5ettit19 a \ong-term goa\ to accumu\ate '30 minutef> or more of moderate altiviti i.e. wa\kin9 '3-4mp\7 on mof>t, prefer.ab\~ a\\ daif> 
For More Info. Contact:RecSports -1-6100
~~ of the wee\C. 
www.nd.edu/~recsport 
-
l_ ­


UConn 'Rips' Du1,e 
¦ Huskies defeated Blue Devils 77-74 to earn school's first national title. Basketball fans across the country wt:re shocked by the Duke loss. 
p. 12
PORTS 
THE 
page 20 0 BSERVER -----------------Tuesday, March 30, 1999 
¦ MnJ's 8ASKHBALL 
Doherty to be named men's coach at today 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Sporrs Ediwr 
Notre Dame filled ils coaching vaeuncy last night by hiring Kansas assistant coa.ch Matt Dulrnrty, according to WNDU radio and tdevi.si.cm. 
,\ press conforence is sched­uIrd for 4 p.m. to announce John Macl.Pod's successor, bu1 Notre Danw refused to comment on who the new hire was. 
¦ 

MacLcoct resigned on March 9 after just three wining seasons during his 
eight-year tenure. 
ThP 37­y ear -old Doherty con­sidered play­ing at Notre Dame. but was recruited 

to play at Doherty 
North Carolina by formC'r UNC assistant and current Kansas head coach Hoy Williams. Doherty started at forward on the Tar Heels· 1982 National Championship tfiam whkh fea­tured Michael Jordan and James Worthy. 
He went on to serve as an assistant at Davidson College for three years, beforP signing on with Kansas, where he has served as an assistant under 
¦ MEN'S LACROSSE 
Bulldogs visit Irish in GWLL match-up 
6yMIKECONNOLLY got goals from six different 
Associate Spom Editor players. This balanced offen­
sive attack will one again be 
The 13th~ranked Notre key for the Irish today. 
Dame men's lacr.osse team "We arc not an offense 
takes on No. 19 Butler today that is going to set up and 
at 3 p. m. on Moose Krause get one guy six goals a 
field in a battle of Great game," Corrigan said. "We 
Western Lacrosse League are a team that can be an 
rivals. effective offensive team 
The Irish will face a tough because we have a lot of 
battle against Bulldogs who people who can contribute. 
defeated the Irish 6-5 last We need to get these contri­
year to wrest the GWLL butions to be at our best." 
championship from the Irish Butler's physical defense 
for the first time in four will most likely create a lot 
years. of groundballs. So far this 
"This is the best team in year, the Irish have picked 
o.ur region wHh question up 178 groundhalls while 
right n.ow," head coach limiting opponents to only 
Kevin Corrigan said. 167. Junior midfielder Kevin 
The Bulldogs enter the Higgins leads the team in 
match-up with a deceiving 3-ground balls with 37. 
. 4 record, Butler has fallen to The Irish defense will face No: 2.. Duke, No. 7 a much different style of Georgetown, No. 8 Delaware attack today against Butler and No. 14 North Carolina. than they faced against 
Corrigan and the Irish are Hobart. While Hobart 
prepared for hard fought, attacked from set plays, 
physical match with Butler. Butler prefers to play a more 
"13utler.is an.. excellent free flowing style. This 
transition team,•i he said. change of style does not 
''They're very good in the worry the Irish, according to 
open· field. They are strong Corrigan. 
f~.q9,amentally .. and wiU play "Whether a team is play­
afr extremely physical ing plays or in transition or 
game." whatever the situation might 
.•. The Irish offense will face be, if our guys understand 
the bru:ql of-the physical what their responsibility is 
play. Butler plays an aggres­and can communicate it, 
sive, attacking defense simi­that's what matters to our 
la: in ~~tne ways !O. the style defense, " he said. "It 
;ofj4~r~m;eHobartplayed.on doesn't matter what the 
Saturday. other team is doing. If we 
Butler defensemen are know what we are doing is ~~ry ai.:7iy~•.··""jtll Jheir.. •Sticl<s what matters to us." 
ani:;l the;Irtsh··willface many The Butler attack is indeed 
dlfferellttypes of checks formidable. Led by midfield­
from the Bulldogs. The key ers Cory Kahoun and Mike 
[95.the Irish at{a,ck against Regan. they are averaging 
lf<:ihartwm be ·an awareness close to 15 goals per game. 
ofthe pressure and staying The Irish will have to con­
alert for open opportunities. stantly be aware of these 
s; tJhe•'s~Iµtion for .us .isJhe two. players if the.y are to 
··:s#n\<i [lls against Hoba.rtj," Send the Bulldogs back to . Corrigan said. ''Our attack-Indianapolis with a loss . 
u:ien ap~ p:iidfieldrrs haVE) to An Irish victory should cat­'-01ove hard with,our without apult them into the driver's the-ball in order to take seat for a bid into the NCAA pressure off the ball carri­tournament. A loss, howev­·erst .... er, will force the Irish to play 
·.·.Agahist<Hoba.rt, the Trish catch•up. 

The Observer/ Jeff Hsu 
First baseman Jeff Felker and the Irish look to start a new winning streak against Wisconsin-Milwaukee. 
ND winning streak dead at 11 
By TIM CASEY 
Sports Write, 
The Irish baseball team, ·currently 15-7 on the season and 5-1 in the Big East, will try to rebound from its first 
loss in 12 outings when its takes on Wisconsin­Milwaukee today at Eck 
Stadium. 
The Irish posted a 3-1 record this paSl week­
end against Big East foes Villanova and Rutgers. The week­end was character­
ized by strong pitching and timely hitting. 
On Saturday, sophomore Aaron Heilman continued to dominate in the 4-0 shutout of the Wildcats. Heilman improved to 4-1 on tlrn sea­son and had flight strikeouts with no walks in the Irish vic­tory. 
In his last three outings, Heilman has a 1.57 ERA and successfully transitioned to his starting position after spending last year in the against Villanova. Kalita struck out 10 Wildcat batters, improving his record to 3-1 after the 10-8 Irish victory. Junior All-American short­stop Brant Ust had two hits, including his 11th home run 
'THE THING THAT YOU NEED TO GUARD AGAINST IS TO 
BE AWARE OF ANY KIND OF LETDOWN BECAUSE THESE GAMF.S ARE VERY IMPORTANT TO US. WHEN THE END OF THE YEAR ROLLS AROUND, WE'LL LOOK BACK AT THESE MID­WEEK GAMES AND EITHER KNOW THAT THEY HELPED US GET INTO THE NCAA TOURNAMENT OR WOULD POTENTIALLY 
HURT OUR CHANCFS.' 
PAUL MAINIERI 
BASEBALL f/EAD COACH 
bullpen, where he led the nation in ERA. 
Rightficlder Jeff Cooke led the offensive charge in the first gamP with three RBI. 
Junior lcfthander Tim Kalita continued the solid pitching in the second game 
The junior 
on the season, while freshman centerf'ielder Steve Stanley was 4-6 from his leadoff' position. 
On Sunday, the Irish played their second doubleheader in as many days against 
Rutgers. 
In the first game, Scott 
Cavey pitched the best game of his career. righthandcr 
allowed only two hits in the 10-1 victory. 
Ust again provided the offensive spark with his 12th home run of the season. Ile 
see BASEBALL I page I7 
Williams f'or the past seven sea­sons. Ile has helped lead the Jayhawks to eight NCM tourna­ment appearances and a Final Four in 1993. Doherty has also played a role in recruiting eight McDonald's All-Americans. 
Dnherty's hiring, however, comes as a bit of a surprise. 
After Rick Majerus withdrew his name from consideration, it was Xavier head coach Skip Prosser who emerged as the frontrunner f'or tlw joh. 
The Chicago TrihunP roportnd that Prosser was i11tcrvinw11d on Sunday by Univ(irsity prnsident Fathor Edward Malloy, athletic dinicl.or Mike Wadsworth and associate athletic director Bubba Cunningham. Executive vice pr<isidcnt Father William Beauchamp was said to have tak1rn part via tclophorw. A 
sec BBALL/ page 15 
• 
Baseball,
ac Purdue, vs. Buder,
Wj'•,, M?
April 5, 2 p.m. Today, 3 p.m vs. Wisconsin-Milwaukee,
\<'_"":.~,)
SPORTS 
Today, 5 p.m. 
ATA 
at Miami, Softball, 
vs. lllinois,
~-, WfJ 
Friday, 7 p.m. vs. Hope College, 
gJ Tomorrow, 3:30 p.m, ~ 
Tomorrow, 5 p.m. 
GLANCE 




