
A ec.tel,1.,,1:1,r,i.n,1, o-/ ~ite,1,,1:1,f,µ,.t,C, 
Watergate Legend Die"' 
Tuesday

¦ Former advisor to President Nixon and. participant
Planning to ,mend the 32nd annual Sophomore 
in the Watergate conspiracy John Ehrlichman died 
Lircrary Pestiv,il? Check out this year's guests. 
FEBRUARY 16,

Mond:iy at age 73.
Scene• 10-11 
News•7 
1999 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 90 WWW. N D.EDU/-OBSERVER 
¦ ~.!\MPUS LIFE COUNClt 


Members propose Trustee forum on discrimination 
Woo to appear on CNN International's impeachment panel 

Carolyn \\'oo. d1•a11 of I.hf' CollegP of BusinPSS ,\d111inis1.rntion. :111<1 ol111•r dist.inguishPd limdPl's will par­tidpall' t11day in a nationally tnlnvis(•d town llHH!ting on tlw s11l'i11I impal'I of' t.lw i111pPa1·.l111wnt Irial. 
",\ Co11v1•rsat.inn with ,\mnrica: Wn thn l'nopln" \Viii ho 
hroadcasl 1111 CNN in two parts from 8­<J p . Ill . a 11 d I O -I I p. m . CNN l111,•r11atio11a! a11d CNl'.Hadio will 'iimulrnsl tlw program. whirh will b1\ l111slPd by .Id!' c;rl'('lll'il'ld. the 111'!­work 's ~nnior analyst. from tlw NPws,•um in /\rlinglon. Va. 
Among till' panP!ists who will join Woo on 1.lw pro~ram am l'ormcr tnl(wi­


sion 11Pws a111'110r v\'altl'r Crnnkitn, l'or-Woo lllf'r SP1rntP majority !r•ad1!r lloward BaxlPr, tc•IPvision producnr Norman Lirnr, und N/\ACP prnsid1i11t and chid f'XPl'llliVP of'licnr Kweisi Mf'unw. Tlw in-studio a11di1•nr11 at the Nnwseum and panelists and andil'llC(\ mPmll!'rs at other sifos nationwide will also part.icipall'. 
l'rngram pi,rlidpants will fo<'.US on how tlrn Senate's illlfl(\Hchm1•11l trial or l'rPsitfont Clinton may affect thn 1rnblif'''i viPW of gov,•rnnwnt and its hiadnrs, tlw law, the nwdia. l'arnili<is, moral rndPs. and c11ltur(\. 
Now in lwr s11coml war at, Notrn Damn, Woo is onn of just two wnnwn to l!;acl a top 50 U.S. business school. Sl11• n•cnntly was namnd one of 40 "youngor leaders" of l\mPric'an /\radcnrn by Chang11 magazine, t.lin journal of' tlw Anrn1·ic-un i\ssocialion l'or Ilighr,r Eduralion. 
Woo·s ar1•as 111' 1i:qwrtise includo busirrnss ethics, strnwgfr planning-, Pnlniprr111nurship and rnanagnnrnnt ol' innovation and torlrnology. lier rns11arch has been p11hlislrnd in journals such as llrn llarv11rd Business Hnvit>w, IV!anagnnwnt SciPncn and Stratqtic Management Journal. 
A nativ11 ol' !long Kong, Woo was educatPd thorn through sPcomlary school hy tlrn Maryknoll sisters. Sh1: holds lhn,., dPgrc'l!S from l'urdun U11iv«irsity. whnrn sho s,•rvi•d as an assodalli l'Xflctrtivn vfce prnsid~nt for Arud,•mir i\lTairs and profossor ol' management before coming to Notrn llanw. 
Woo is :tlso tin, Hay and l\1ilanr1 Siogrricd Profossor of Ma11agi'm11111. 

Sitting in the sunshine 
The Observer/Ben Peters 

A student took advantage of warm weather Monday by studying outside on the Cavanaugh Hall side of LaFortune. Temperatures in the South Bend area are expected to reach 45 degrees today. 


Investor to speak on leadership 
Special to The Observer 
Ron Burns. u. private investor and managnmnnt consultant basoc! in Omaha, Neb.• will deliver a lecture at 12:30 p.m. Thursday in thn College of Businnss Administration's .Jordan Auditorium. 
Tilled "The 21st Century Leadership Shadow: Inl1uence vs. Authority," the talk is sponsorcid by the Dcpartmont of Management as a part of the "Lnad0.rship for Competitive Advantage and Personal Success," lecture series. The series has 

been made possible by the Hon 
and Shirley Burns Family Endowment for Excellence in Leadership. 
Burns, chair of Burns Capital Partnors and Hurns Managemr.nt Inc., specializes in invcstmimts in energy an<l emerging tBchnolo­gies. I-le is a principal sharnholdf'r and director or ECom Worldwide, an electronic data interchange service provider, as well as of TT! Tedrnologies, a waste handling and di~trihuted electric power compai!y. Ile also serves on the advisory board of Unocal's domestic exploration and produc­
tion company. 
Burns is a l'ormnr presicknt and chief operating olTicm of Entergy Corp., a $10-hillion nlnctric utility based in New Orlnans. and a for­mer prnsident and chid nxncul.ivn officer of Union Pacific ltailroad. lie held numerous s1111ior man­agement positions during a 2 I ­year career with Enron Corp .. including chair ancl CEO of Enron Capital and Trade lhisources, thn company's natural gas and elec­tricity marketing, trading and finance subsidiary. 
Burns' lecturn is I'rnn and open to thP public. 

By PINN PRESSLY N,·w, Writ<'t 
Disn1ssio11 or a rnsolution regarding Uw r1H'.t!llt Board of Trust(Ws chicision lo rPj1id Urn inclusion of S('Xtml orifm­tation in Notn· D,mw's noll-discrimi11u­tio11 daus,• clominntNI llrn agenda of last night's nwiiting of t.lw Campus I.ifo CollllC'il. 
Tlw resolution. prPSPlltNl hy April Davis and llyan SLocz or Urn l)iv(:rsily !.ommillC'I'. calll'd l'or a forum for 11u•mllf'rs of Llw Board ol' Trustr.es to pPrs111rnlly !\Xplain to st.udents why Llwy votnd tlw way tlrny did. 
"W1! folt that hncausl' tlrn Slud1rnt Senat,•, hLcully Smrnte, and Acadr.mic Council sp1\nl time researchin~ and ch•bating this isstw and passed rr.solu­Lions in l'avor of linrluding the clausol ... il would lw a shanw if the Board of' lr11st1•1•s votP just happcnnd and r.ndPd d1•hal1\ 011 this issuP," said Stud0.11l Union Board ma11ag1•r Stncz, nxplain­ing his 1·ommil1PP's rPasons for pn•­
snnting tlrn resolution. "Wn felt !the of thi.• students and faculty of Notre issunl desnrve<l a littln more input into Dame," said Stecz, referring to the why the Board of Trustees and Board arguments printed in the prnss release. of ficllows voted the way they did." "It seems to me that just tells us 
Bill Kirk, assistant vice-president for there are more questions to be H11sidence answered ... Lifr., distrib-This big of an utnd copies of i s s u e Lim Board of 'AFTER EVERYTHING THAT EVERYONE'S deserves this Trustees' kind of atten­
PUT lNTO THIS, WE DESERVE MORE 
prnss relr.asn tinn." 
r cg a rd i n g THAN A PARAGRAPH.' Kirk, dis­t.hoir decisions agreed, how­in London. ever, main­
"I don't RY1!N STECZ taining his think it would mvtHS!TY C0.'11/vtnTEH, CAMPUS LIFH COUNl1l faith in the 
be appropri­a tf~ f'or Student Affairs to handle such a l'orum," Kirk said, adding that he felt tlrnrn wasn't enough material left unaddressod by Lhe prnss releas11 to warrant such a forum. 
"It semns to me these am the same argunrnnts madn whon Urn Spirit of Inclusion was brought Lo the attention Board of 
Trustees. 
"I think the Board ol' Fellows and the Board of Trustees have done extensive rnsearch and review of the matter," he said. 
Father David Scheidler, rector of St. Edward's Hall, expressed hesitance to pass the resolution. 
"I feel like its time to come up with ... 
some 1111w questions or perhaps a new angle or answcrs ours,•lv,~s." said Scheidler. "I just don't feel lih we should be wasting anymore limn on this." 
Brother .hiromc Mtiynr. rnctor of' Knott llall, was also roluctant to approvc the rnsolution. 
"I think at a certain point in discus­sion, you have to accept the conclusion that comes up," said Meyer. 
Tim authors of thn rnsolution wt1re not convinced. "Tlrnre hasn't bnen a discussion in the first place," Str.cz replied. 
"1 think it's disheartening and harm­ful to us [when! things am mandated to us," added Davis. "1 think it's the University's obligation to talk to me as a student and tell me what happened." 
"After everything that nvnryonn's put into this. we dcsorvo morn than a paragraph." noted Stecz. indicating Lim portion of thn slatomimt that explained 
see CLC / page 4 


page 2 
¦ fNS!DE COLUMN 


The Siss 
I 11rst was guing to use this column to point out how decidedly un-funny the gipper (I know it's supposed to be capitalized, but this clown deserves no respect) has found a way to be this vear But then 
~~======-­
I said to myself: "Self, it's not his fault he's un­f'unny. Some people and things are decidedly funny. {See: Ellis, Mary Beth; Hevue, Keenan: That Kid That Does the Chris Farley Bit and lives in a VAN DOWN 

BY TIIE HIVEH.J And,  Spencer Stefko  
Sell', some  people are A.,.;ociateYiewp01nr6.litor  
decidl'dly  un-funny.  

!See·: Per, Gip.) It is not their fault, and, Self, you should be easy on him." 
It was at that point that I realizf,d that: first. I was talking to myself in the second person; and ser.ondly, that I should feel no remorse bccnusc the gippcr is a11 insecure 
l'litist sissy. So I have no qualms mentioning that the gipper is about as funny as a goiter. 
How is he an insecure elitist sissy? Let me count the ways. 
First, this guy gets only 600 or 700 words per fortnight, and this past week, he spent 45 percent of thrm defonding his past writing. Maybe it's just because I'm confident in what 1 write, but I can never see Justification for going hack and forth, arguing in print with somebody about something.you have written. Write something that you can stand behind (or don't write it at all), and let it stand on its mnrit. llow insecure must one be to have to defond what or how they write? . 
Secondly, when trying to rip someone who disagreed with him, he bumbled the easiest task ever handed to a journalist: Rip into The Man. Ser,, the guy who disagreed with the Gipp was Cappy Gagnon, a high-up in the Notre Dame Security Department. Right or wrong, he is The Man. As in, "Damn The Man." The Establishment. Authority. 
So how r,an you set out to humiliate The Man and fail? By making no relevant points and coming off like an elitist sissy, that's how. · 
The gipp talks down toward Gagnon, refer­ring to "someone who has gone as far in life as you have," insinuating that not only does the gipp know what this guy has done with his life, but that Gagnon is a failure in life bncausr he works in security. He goes on to write, "[t]he [g]ipp feels sorry for you ... that you couldn't handle the real world and had to return to the Notre Dame bubble all thesP years later." 
Sound f'amiliar'? It's the same recking elit­ism from last year that made the Notre Dame student body look like one colhictive, spoiled, rich, prissy brat to the rest of the country when tlrn senior class president, the Morrissev Hall senator and a few other clowns pr~testccl the commencement speaker because he didn't have a "national reputa­tion." Which brings us to the "sissy" part. 
At least they had the guts to get up in front of peoph~ and say, "This is what I think. l may he an elitist knucklehead, but here I am: hid­ing behind nothing." The gipper hides behind a pen name. Anonymity may be necessary for the corn of his job; but making a snooty per­sonal attack from behind an alias? Whoever 

The Observer• INSIDE Tuesday, February 16, 1999 




utside the Dome 
Compiled from UWire reports 

Hacker penetrates Computer Science department 
MISSOULA, Mont. 
The University of Montana Computer Science department was informed Thursday that one of their computers was being used to try to hark into the Florida State University computer system, a UM computer science student ~aid. 
Brian Adams. a seninr in the department, said FSU called to advise them of the attempted br<'ach. Thr Computer Science department found the computer responsible and determined that it was not the origination point of the har,king. 
Instead, a hacker broke into this computer and used it as a "launch­ing station" to mount assaults on other computer systems. The CS department broke the hacker's cnn­nection to UM's system and has begun the process of identifying how the hacker gut in. 

The hacker's original location, how long the person had access to the system or how many systems the person compromisud has not yet been completely determined, Adams said. But at this point, the CS departnrnnt believes that the hacker only had access to this one server and its small network. 
"This guy could be in Singapore, or he could be next door," he said. "We're trying to follow his foot­steps." So far, they have not been able to find any indication or mali­
cious intent, Adams said, and the person only broke into one Web server, which contained no informa­tion of value. Since they caught the hacker in the act, he said, this com­puter will be used as a tpar:hing tool for campus technicians to learn how to stop hack11rs. 
"Right now, this is a very isolated incident," Adams said. ".Just one comp'utcr on a small network. There are no signs, so far, that Im is in the CIS department's system." 
UM CompuUir Science prof'cissor Don Morton, who was aware of the incident, declined to comment about it. Adams said the motive for hack­ers ,11 this typo of' situation is often to gain acr,ess to a computer just to see of thny can do it, tlrnn to use it as a station to move on to anotlrnr one. II' the hacker gets enough of' these stations lin11d up. tracking them down becomes very diflicult. 

¦ UNIVERSITY OF MlSSOURlwCOLUMBIA ¦ RUTGERS UNIVERSITY 
Departments to adopt own statements Women unaware of risks of STDs 
COLOMBIA, Mo. 
Last Thursday, the Faculty Council voted to endorse an MSA resolution calling for each college and department at the University of Missouri-Columbia to adopt its own state­ment of non-discrimination that would include sexual orien­tation. The council's decision was in response to the UM Board· of Curators' recent decision to amend ExPcutive Order No. 3 rather than include the words "sexual orienta­tion" in the University of' Missouri system's non-discrimina­tion policy. "It's not just that this statement doesn't include a group of people in a very equal way I also see this as a secu­rity issue," said Robin Remington, a politic.al science profes­sor, during the Faculty Council meeting. Remington said that the Executive Order was ambivalent toward a group that she feels has been facing increased discrimination. "The fact of the matter is that I've had students who have been beaten who have fallen under this category," she said. 
¦ UI\HVERSffY OF lND!Af4A Indiana displays AIDS quilt 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 
It's the largest example of community art in the world a·nd spans the length of mm;e than 16 football fields. The NAMES Project/AIDS Memorial Quilt represents 21 percent of all 
U.S. AIDS deaths. If each panel was laid end to encl, the quilt would stretch beyond the distance between Providence, H.l., and Boston, Mass. Sunday, 400 of the more than 40,000 quilt panels began their display at Indiana University's Alumni Hall. Union Board made the push to bring the quilt to Bloomington to kick off AIDS Awareness Week. The open­ing r,eremony began with rPmarks f'rom Bloomington Chancellor and University Vice President Kenneth Gros Louis and Bloomington Mayor John Fernandez Fernandez, an honorary quilt chair, spoke of the statistical toll AIDS has taken on Indiana. "Over 6,000 Hoosiers are infectrd with HIV, and Monroe County ranks fifth in the state with the number of IIIV-infected residents," Fernandez said. 
NEW rmUNSWICK, N..I. 

Many women are at a greater risk of contracting sexually­transmitted infections than they bPlievn, according to a recent study. Perceptions of risk based on good impressions of a sexual partner are relied on more heavily than tnsting for STDs, said Mary Hutchinson, assistant profossor at the College of Nursing at Hutgers-Camdm1. Hutchinson recnntly conducted a study of 18-to 26-year-old women to detnrminc whether their perception of being at risk of' contracting STDs is the same as their actual risk. Even formal education about STDs does not make a big impact. on many peopln's percep­tion ofrisk, Hutchinson said. She said the results of thn study will not be published until later this month, when they will appear in the Journal of Obstetric, Gynecologic and Neonatal Nursing and in the .Journal of Family Relations. "l know unsafe sex is bad for me," Rutgers College senior Rnbncca Keptner said. 
¦ PmNcHm\l UN!VERsnv 
Students to hold sweatshop rally 
PHINCETON, N . .I. 

Students for Progressive Education and Action will sponsor a rally Tuesday to encourage thn University to adopt a strong antisweatshop stance with the companins that manufacture its apparel. Groups at Harvard, Yaln, Brown, Columbia and Cornell univnrsitins havn planrwd similar protests for Tuesday -tlrn day bef'orn Ivy League administrators am scheduled to ment to discuss measurns their schools can take to oppose sweatshop labor. "Tlw primary goal of the rally is to demonstrate to thn admin­istration the depth of student commitnwnt to achieving a strong codn of conduct for Princeton," Sl'EAC president Amanda Fulmer said. Despitn thn rncent sur,cess or anti­sweatshop sit-ins at schools sur,h as Duke and Georgetown, Fulmer said SPEAC is unliknly to choose such a confrontational method. "Tlwrn are no plans f'or anything like that at this time," slrn said. 
on the admissions committee let him in hPre 
should be shot. 
A last note to the gipper: go ahead and 
write all you want about this (no one reads 
you anyway), but I won't go back and forth 
with you in public. I refuse to have a battle of 
wits with the unarmnd. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of 71ie Obseruer. 
¦ rootw's SrAFF  
News  
Anne Marie Mattingly  Scene  
Brad Untiedt  Loubel Cruz  
Maureen Smithe  Graphics  
Sports  Scott Hardy  
Brian Kessler  Lab Tech  
Viewpoint  Mary Leffers  
Eddie I.lull  

The .06,erver (USPS 599 2-4000) is publi.,hcd Monday rnrough Fnday except during C'X.arn and v,1cnion period.,:;, The 06:.ervn ii. a member o! chc A.-.sociatcd Press. All reproduction ri~hrs arc reserved. 
¦ SomH Brno WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather ·'" fontcast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

,H L 

Tuesday ~ 47 40 
\.'' '' 

Wednesdayc::1 33 27 Thursday ~ 35 27 Friday ~ 32 25 Saturday Q 33 22 
~,Q,~9,~Q·l') ·~d 
Showers T-storms Ram Flumes Snow Ice Sunny Pr. Cloudy Cloudv Via Aff0c1ated Press ara{Jh,csNet 
¦ NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeathe~ forecast for noon, Tuesday, Feb. 16. 
70s ~ 

""­
80s FRONTS,

30• 40s 
........... -----~ 

01999 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Pr.ssure  ,{'.~..,  
®©  ......  ''3/:,-.r-'1!!1  
High  Low  Showen•  Rain  T-storms  Flurrie&  Snow  Ice  Sunny  Pt. Cloudy  Cloudy  

Atlanta  59  25  Houston  70  48  St Louis  54  37  
Boston  39  20  Los Angeles  68  41  St. Paul  40  27  
Dallas  70  52  New York  41  22  Tampa  64  37  
Denver  44  31  Phoenix  72  55  Tulsa  68  39  

·1 i.icsJay, rchruary 16, 1999 The Observer• NEWS page 3 

Film to prompt discussion Critics boycott Intel's latest, on justice, death penalty the Pentium III computer chip 

J\ l'ilm about tl11• 1,asP ol' l'1•1111sylva11ia d1•ath-r11w i11111at1' 
\111mia ,\bu-.lamal will hi' shown 
\\'r•d11,·sday· al 7 p.m. in room 14 l 1>1•Ha!'lol11 ilall. 
ThP l'ilm. "B1•hind Tl]('SP Walls: \lu111ia ,\li11-.la111al and Lill' Long S1rug~I,. For ,.-n·Pdmn," will Im fol­low,•d al 8: I!i p.111 hy a pn1wl disrns­sio11 011 "Thi' U.S . .lusLicP SystP111: TIi f' 11 I' 11 t 11 I' f' n a It v i11 () u <'st ion . " l'atwlisls i111·l11d<' l'<;tc•r Walshe, 1)ro­1'1>ss11r 111' gm,Pl'lllllt'llt and i11LPl'1Ja­lio1wl sfudiPs; FN1w11cl llutilP. pro­l'l·ss11r ol' law; .lay Tidmarsh. assol'i­nlo proit'SSOl' or i'aw; !lil'-itard l'iPl'C:P, assislanl. prof'Pssor 111' history nnd Palrit-k :l.la..,011, ussorialf' prol'.-ssor uf' 
¦ SECURITY BEAT 
ncotwmics. 
O 11 I u I v '.{ , 11) 8 2 , M u m i a /\ h u ­lama I. ,; journalist and poliliral activist in l'hiladr:lphia's J\frican­J\nwrican c·ommunity, was ronvictNI of 1./1(• Due. 'J. I ')81 murdnr of 
l'hila{folphia policn 01Tic1)r IJanir.l Faulknnr and scntoncod Lo cloath. Tlw co11trovPrsial trial, marrnd by nunwrous irr1•gulariti11s, l'Pf'.l'ivf"d 
i11tl'rnaLion11l atLnnLion and gave risr, 
t.11 wid 11s prnnd doubt a bo u I. Abu ­Jamal's guilt. Sc.hr.clul<'d for PXPeu­1.ion on ,\ug. 17. I <J<J :i. Abu-Jamal l'l'l'.Pivl'd a stnv and has conlin1md to dPllland a 1wv.; Lrial l'VPI' sincn. 
Tlw f'ilm and disn1ssion am lining spo11sor11d by Notre Danrn's /\l'riec111 and i\J'rican-;\mcriran SL11di1:s pro­gram and tlw history deµartnrnnl.. 
Friday, Feb. 12 ~ :43 p.m. Security transported a University employee to the University Health Center for treatment of a hand injury. 
6:20 p.m. A Dillon Hall resident was transported by security to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a sports injury. 
Saturday, Feb. 13 
4:30 a.m. Security arrested an off-campus student for driving while intoxicat­ed. 
4:45 a.m. A University citation was issued to an O'Neill Hall resident for minor consumption of alcohol. 
7:00 p.m. Security issued a University citation to a Knott Hall resident for minor in possession of alcohol. 
9:45 p.m. A Farley Hall resident was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of injuries sustained during a fall. 

Sunday,Feb.14 
3:12 a.m. A Stanford Hall resident was issued a citation for minor consump­tion of alcohol. 
1:23 p.m. The University reported the theft of a table from Reckers in South Dining Hall. 
2:09 p.m. Security transported a Keough Hall resident to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a sports injury. 
A.-,uciarcd Pre<s 

WASI IINCTON 
I lays bP(i1r1~ tlm ddrnt of 01f' l'asti~st l'Vf\t' computnr prnc11ssor from luted Corp.. tlw chip's critics sought Monday lo widnn thnil' boycott anrl 11nlist the govnrnnrnnt in opposif!g the new tr,ctrnology, which tlrny say will allow 1rnsy tracing of lnternnt usnrs. 
The organizers of tho boycott, 
Junkhust.crs Corp. of Cre!'1n Brook, N..1., and thn Washington-based Elnctronic 
l'rival'y Information C!'nlcr, sent lcttPrs to privacy and con­sumnr groups, 

'WE 
nnd Tncl111ology, Conlor for M<•dia Education, Elnctronir Frontfor Foundation, Consunwr l'roj1•ct on Technology and oth­1~rs al'tivn in tlrn industry. 
The lnttnrs asked tlwsc groups' to 11rgn tlrn FTC to consirlnr stopping fnud from dis­tributing its 1111w t1:cl111ology and to warn thn industry's fargrn,t cnmputPr rnaknrs 1•x1wctPd lo sPII machinns using tlw rww chip. 
FTC Chairman Holwn l'itofsky has already indicat.Pd lw doPsn't lrnlil'V<' that his ag;:nr.y, which normally f'ights co11­s111111H· rraud and clncnpt.iVP tradn p1w·­l ic1•s, CHI! l'l'(fllirl' 
THINK WE'VE GIVEN CON­lnt<'I to slop s,i!ling
<'Jl<·.ouraging tlwm lo 
it.s l',~ntium Ill rhiµs.

SUMERS ENOUGH CHOICE
g1:t the 1-'cdnral 
"As things stand. I 

Trad1, Commission -CONSUMERS' CHOICE AND 
don't think WP haw 
invofvnd. 


CHOICE FOR THE [COMPUTER MAK­the authority to do 
lnt1d, tlw world's largost computer ERS.]' 1·hip-maker, announced last month that its upcoming l'entium III chip will be abln to 

transmit a uniquo serial number internally and lo Woh sites that rnqur.st it. This could be ust1d to verify the identity of' Web sitr: usnrs. 
The company said the t1\chnology will help onlinc merchants eliminate fraud, but some privacy groups contend it gives com­panies unprncedented ability to trace a consumer's digital footprints as they wan­der thn Web. 
The Pentium III will be launr.hnd officially Feb. 26, but the company has invited mportnrs and industry analysts to talk with cxocutivos about the technology Wednesday at a preview confcrenr.e in San .lose, Calif. 
On Monday. !he protest groups sent let­ters seeking support from the American Civil Liberties Union. Center for Dnmocracy that." l'itors·ky told Tim AssoeiatPd Pross. 
Ctnic;.; M.1u,or In a s11paratn lnttnr to l'itol'sky, tho 
Sf>OK!:Sl'Wf.W!N, /,VT!:'/ 
groups warrrnd that 
cons111111~rs will not 
partir.ipatP in l'.om­

nmrcn over thn lntnrnot bncausn thoy foar tlwir privar.y could bn rnmpromisnd. Tlw Pentium Ill technology "will move rPality much closr.r to these cons111nr.rs' worst. foars," the groups wrotn tlw FTC. 
An lntd spoknsman, Chuck Mulloy, said, _"They certainly have tlrn right to writn let­ters to anyone they want. We think wc'v11 given consumers enough choice -con­sumers choice and choice for the lcomputPr makers]." 
After the plannnd boycott was announcnd last month. Intel officials said limy will include software that allows consunHffS to turn off the rrnw technology and that the mmpany will nncouragn computor makers to turn it off by dnfault in machines they sell. 

is now accepting applications for the THE following positions on the 



1999-2000
BSE 
General Board 

AD DESIGN MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of QuarkXpress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager oversees a staff of design­ers, works closely with advertising and marketing departments and is responsible for the design and layout of adv.ertisements. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge of computer networking. The Systems Manager maintains and updates the Macintosh network and printers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the use of the system. 
CONTROLLER Applicant must be a sophomore or junior majoring in accounting or finance at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. The Controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operat­ing budget and taxes, accounts payable, cost-tracking and other transaction duties. 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR Applicant must be familiar with building and maintaining a World Wide Web site. The Web Administrator is responsible for working with the editorial departments of The Observer in order to update and archive the content of the site each day. The Web Administrator also muse be able to expand the capabilities of the site. 
GRAPHICS EDITOR Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and a working knowledge of Free Hand and/or Adobe lllustracor. The Graphics Editor oversees a staff of designers and must work closely with News, Sports and Scene to match top-quality graphics with the content of each day's newspaper. 
Any full-time undergraduate or grttduate student at Notre Dame or Srdnt ,'vfl!r:/s is encouraged to apply. Notijj, 1~1ichelle Krup.1 as S()fln as possihle tfyr,u intend to apply. A three-page statement ofintent and a resunu! are required for aJ!plication. For questions about the application process or for more information about any position, cafi The Observer at 631-4542 or 631-5323. 
page 4 
Associated Pre,s 
OSLO 
Presidont ClhJton, U;B. peace envoy Richard Holbrooke. U .N. Secretary­Girn e ral Kofi Annan and Pope, John Paul II are among 118 nominees for this year's Nobel Peace Prize. 
Awnrds r.ommittflA secro­tary Geir Lundcstad said Monday the number of nom­inations could increase. but would probably fall short of the record 139 candidates last year. 
"We can't set a record every year," he said. The five-member awards com­mitt1rn accepts nominal.ions postmarked by Feb. l, and can add its own candidates. 
The Nobt1l prizes are announced in October. Tho amount !'or this year's prizes has not been set, but in recent years each prize has been worth about $1 mil­lion. 
In kcnping with the com­mittee's strict policy of secrecy, names of cancli.­

CLC 
continued from page l 
the Board· s decision. 
Pangborn senator Susan Roberts was also unwilling to accept the notion that the 
forum  was  beyond the call of  
duty  for  the  Board  of  
Trustees.  

"Everyone talks about the Board of Trustees like they're unattainable demigods," said Roberts. "it's like. 'Oh. we can't bring them all in.' It's like thc\y descend in from on high." 
l<atlrnr Scheidler also noted that hall' of the Board of Fellows. those members of the Board of Trustees who are responsible l'or maintaining the Catholic character of the University, live on campus. 
Sister Carrine Etheridge, rector of Farley Hall, made note of' the fact that many 
date.s -85 individuals and 33or~anizations this,,year ~ ar!" ~ol releas1d...·......·· .•
Those makJng. n§irtrtiai··.
tions, however;. ,often annollrtce them and this year's known American nominees include Clinton and former President Jitnmy Carter, · along with Holbtooke. 
Clintoµ has been nov:ilnat­ed several time& £0,r the award. Though the spedtics of t.bis vear's nomination were not released, pa.st nominations have Cft()d his 
efforts to maintain peace andstability ihroughotJt the
world,· · .. ... . The pope was ·notillliated as a symbol of peace in the vmrld. and Annan for his efforts to avoid or stop many of the world's armed con­tlicts. Holbrooke wa~ nomi­nated for .his work to bring pea<;e to the Balkans..: The Salvatfo11. :A+niy, Doctors Without Borders, and NATO, for its role in European peacekeeping, havfi also been nominated. 
forums on ,the sexual-orienta­tion issue have taken place in recent weeks. 
"We've had speak-outs, ral­lies. and [full-page ads] about the clause," said Etheridge. "I have a problem with more talk for the sake of talk." 
Responded Ste.cz. "That's talking 'at' -not talking 'with.'" 
In the interest of time, debate of the resolution was suspended until the next meeting. 
The Council_ also approved two resolutions, each relating to altering amendments to previous resolutions, such that their syntax will be up-to-date when the Board of Trustees reviews them later in the Spring. 
"They're basically just tweaking things that needed to be changed," said Roberts, whose Bylaws Review Committee presented the reso­
The Observer• NEWS Tuesday, February 16, 1999 
¦ IRAfl 



VP threatens Turkish base 
Associated Pres.< 
BAGIIDAD 

Iraq's vice prnsident threal­ened Monday to attack a Turkish base /'or U.S. war­
. 
planes, along with other American and British bases in th11 region. il' tl111 jets continufl patrolling: Iraqi skies. 
Secretary of Stat11 \1adeloine Albright promised swift li.S. retaliation in event of an Iraqi attack. 
Taha Yassin Hamadan's threat, coming in an interview with Radio Monte Carlo, moni­tored in Baghdad. marked tlrn first time in years that Iraq has threatened to attack 1wighbor­ing Turkp,y. 
U.S. ,jets based at lncirlik, in southern Turkey. have struck almost daily at Iraqi defense sites after being targeted by Iraqi defenses while patrolling the "no-fly" zone over the north or the country. 
Hamadan also repeated Iraq's threat made Sunday-against other bases in Saudi Arabia and Kuwait from which U.S. and British jets patrol a southern "no-tly" zone. The Arab League denouno~d this Parlier threat Monday. 
"If the Turkish base continues attacking Iraq it, will certainly be [targeted] like other bases 
· [in the Persian Guin," Ramadan said. 
"I say if America and Britain do not retreat, they'll soon pay dearly in relation to the properties and elements they use to launch aggression on tho people of Iraq," he said. 
Responding to the threat, President Clinton's top foreign policy advisers on Monday warned that if Iraq attacked the Turkish base, the United States would react sharply. 
"We have made very clear that were there anv attacks on our forces or on ,;cighboring counlries that our response 

would be swift and sure," said Albright, who is with Clinton on his trip to Mexico. 
Hamaclan madP. his rmnarks the same day Iraqi Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz held talks with Turkish Prime Minister Bulent Ecevit i~ Ankara. Aziz wAnt to Turkey to try to persuade thP Turkish govcrnmcrnt to halt thr ovBr­flights from lncirlik base. Ecovit, however, insisted that use ol' tl1n base to patrol tlrn 
zone would continufl.  
In  Ankara,  tlrnrr  was  no  
immodiate  reaction  to  
Hamadan's rnmarks.  

Also Monday, U.S. warplanr,s 
AP 

attacked Iraqi defense sites in northArn Iraq, the Defense Department said in Washington. The planes returned safely to Incirlik, according to the Defense Department. 
The Iraqi government said in a statement that allied planes also had carried out attacks in the soutlrnrn "no-f'ly" zone, killing five civilians and injuring another 22. The U.S. statement made no mention of strikes in the south and the Iraqi claims could not be independently con­firmed. 
The "no-l1y" zo1rns were set up after the 1991 Gulf War lo prnvcnt Iraqi aircraf'l from attacking Kurdish rnbols in the north and Shiite Muslims in lhe south of the country. · 
Iraq has never accPpted tlw validity of the zonr,s, which were creatfld by the United States, Britain and FrnncP and am not authorized by a spncific 
U.N. Security Council rnsolu­tion. 
Franc(\ latm· withdrew its par­ticipation in the cnl'orcemenl of tlH, zones, 
The United Statfls says Iraq has violated the zones 90 times since it b<1gan challenging thorn in Dncemlrnr. U.S. and British planes have retaliatnd by attacking morn than 40 Iraqi air defonsP sites. Iraq says at lnast 32 people havfl bcnn killed in thPse attacks. 
In Kuwait on Monday. a Fornign Ministry spokesman said tlrn Iraqi leadership's throats reflect Baghdad'·s "aggrnssivo intention toward its ndghbors." 
Iraq's warning on Sunday was a "direct and serious threat to Kuwait's security and sovereignty," the spokesman told the official Kuwait N<~ws Agency. 
In Ankara, although Ecevit made C'foar ,iarlier Monday that 
U.S. and British planes would continue to be allownd to usn Incirlik to patrol northern Iraq, Im dislanced his nation from tho American interest in overthrow­ing Iraqi President Saddam Hussein, 
Turkey fears attempts to remove Saddam could lead to chaos and division in Iraq. "For us tlrn problem is not Saddam Hussein," Ecevit reported after meoting with Aziz. 
"Saddam llussein is tlrn con­cern of thn Iraqi pcopln. and it might be Lim problPm of the United States or utlrnr stalos," Ecevit said. "For us the problem is to prevent Iraq's division." 
lie said lw told Aziz tlw mis­sion was operating under tlw strict control or Turkish oflirnrs and that U.S. jets wPrP only striking at Iraqi defons<' sites wllC'n attarkod or targetPd. 

GERALD P. MYERS, M,D. 

Oeif~l"t1f TkB~Rzza.,I ®©GlQ Qu:i© @ . ©@~ iJ!!l©~cflGl~ijij  
Anytime Anytime you call between you call between 5:30 & 7:00, 10:30-12:59 the price of your the price of your 2 large 1 large 1 topping topping pizzaspizza is the time you call.is the time you call. * Plus tax* Plus tax  
Lunch Special Small 1 Topping ND store 2 Cans of Coca-Cola product Saint Mary's/ $5.99271-11.77 North Village Mall Drive-In and Delivery 271-PAPAVisa/Mastercard Accepted  

lutions. 

For discreet professional care... 
offcampus. 
Psychiatry Eating Disorders ~ and Chemical Dependency 
Memorial 
Pathways Center for Behavioral Health'M 
MARNIN FISCHBACH, M.D. 
PsychiahJ' 
Eating Disorders and Chemical Dependency 
284-3153 






R Lo· 
.ation 

COMf'llB> FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 

¦ NORTHERN IRELAND 

Protestants assail Sinn Fein 
AssOCIATl.lD PRESS McGuinness shouldn't .feel "embar­ranks of the Ulster Unionists, whose rasst1d and ashamed" ofhis IRA links. backing for Urn accord is es:rnntial to BELFAST Following debate that could last making it work. 
Protestants hoapod scorn on Sinn until Wednesday in the Assembly, Trimble emphasized again Monday Fein leaders during a debate Monday elected in June to serve as tho launch­that he won't allow Sinn Foin to join that illustrated a peace process ing pad for Northern freland's new the administration if' the mA doesn't struinud by approaching doudlines tind government, most of the legislature's start disarming, but that hasn't placat­the question of when -if ever -the 108 members are expected to vote in ed two party membMs who alr1iady 
favor. havn said thny will join tlrn rnnks of
IHA will sLart disarming. 

Tho Belfast Asst!mbly was dis­That vote is supposed to clear the the a11ti•agnieme11t Protestants. cussing plans that would creatn a joint way for Protestant politician David Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern, 
Protestaut-Catholic government for Trimble and Catholic politician speaking in Paris al'tor m1rnting with Northern lruland whcm one spectator. Seamus Mallon to oversee the forma­French leaclers on European Union 
tion of a 12-member administration issues. said Monday lhat he couldn't
a relative of an Irish Republican Army victim. yelled, "!land in your guns, you drawn from four parties: Trimble's envision a Northern Ireland govtlrn­murd~!rer!" Ulster Unionist.s, Mallon's Social ment without Sinn Fein. The shout in tho Asstimbly followed Democratic and Labor Party, Sinn Fein But Ahern refused to give his view Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams' call for and Robinson's Democratic Unionists. on whether tho IRA must disctrm in 
The British government, which has order for Sinn Fein to take part in the
Protestant politicians to accept his IRA-nlliud party's democratic creden­directly ruled Northern lreland since new government. He said the final tials "without preconditions.'' 1972, wants to start handing over decision remains with Gen. John do 
responsibilitit!S to the local administra­Chastelain, the Canadian army gPneral
And when Martin McGuinness com­plained tha.t Prolastants on the other tion on March 10, but already h11s con· who leads a disarmament commission. 
side of the Assnmhly should stop call­ceded that that deadline probably "The issue won't go away. We have 
won't he met. to find a resolution to il b(lfore we
ing his party "Sinn Fein-IHA," hard• Instead, this week;s vote is likely to move on," Ahern added. "And that
line Protestant politician Peter Robinson sarcastically retorted that confirm growing dis~ent within the resolution t1as to he credible.~ 
¦ Wuc111 Nr:ws E 
Chinese ring in New Year 
M,\CAU 

HPd U1i1wsP la1111•r11s frstouupcf l:urnpPltrl rnlo11ial h11ilclings nnd fin•narkPrs PxplodPd to 1h1• IH•al of' loud rn11sir :-.londay as Marau l'.!'lc­hra tl'd its lasl Chin1•s1' N,:w YPar undPr l'ort11gw•s1• rnll•. \\'hil1• !Ill' Chitl!'SP majority rang-i11 thP l.t11rnr !\p1,\· YP,1r. Llwir l'ortug-w•sP 11Pighhors \\'nldwd th!' 1•pfphrafio11s knowing tli;it mosl of' tll1·111 would tw go11P for twxt 11>.ir·,-l>aslt. \lal'all will lw llandt!d ovPr t.11 Chi11;1 rn, llPr ;w .il'IPr 400 wars of' colonial rnl1·. Ud11;1 w1d Clii1ws1• ntm1;1111iiti1·s through­out .\sian nn111triPs \\'l'ic01111•d th1• Y1•ar of' tlw HallhiI, \\hirh lwgins Ttwsday. But in somP pli!rP-;. 1·1'11'11rali1111;. ,,·.,n• m11ti,d bv 1111~ 1•ro­1111111i,· :-lowdown ham1H•1·ing th .. n•gi~)ll. 
Court sentences fraudulent 
art dealer 
LONDON 

lltP man who mastPri11indPd Britain's l;1rg!·s1 ro11t1•111porary art. fraud. lln11di11g tlw rnarkPI \\'ith lip to 200 f'akl's, was SPnt1~111:Pd \londay In six yPars in prison ..lohn Dn•wp was; 1·1111virtPd last w1•l'k or two chaq~Ps of forgPry ,111d Dlll' rharg1• Parh of ('Ol!spirary t11 dPl'raud. lhPl't and using a f'alsP instru­1111•111. Tilt' fraud IH'gan in I CJ8(1 wfrnn Drnw11 hin·d artist John Myatt to ropy the slyhis ol' surh artists as BPn Nicholson, Allrnrlo C iaco111 t'l ti . (; r a Ii a 111 Su t Im r I and a II cl N1dro]ns lk St:wl. The works, which wnr1i supposPd lo rlaln from :-HJ Lo 40 ynars ago, wPn· arlifidally agPd using vacuum cleaiwr dust and !-(ard1•n mud. l)rnwe. 50, also lam­1wnid with archiv1•s in London's Tale (;allery and l111• Victoria and r\lbilrl MustlUlll. 
Disney worker dies from fall 
OHIANDO 

A rnstodiau al Wall Disney World died afttir lw was sw1ipt from a platform by an devat1id cablP car and plungPd 40 foet to the ground. Haymond Barlow was on a platform for the Skyway in l;antasyland when tlw cable-car ridP was switdrnd un in preparation for the park's op1111ing Sunday morning. Whoever switdwd ii 11n didn't know Barlow was stand­ing in tlll' path of tlw cars, Orange County slwrifrs l>cputy Hobert Larson said. Barlow. fi:i. grabhnd tlw l'our-pnrson gondola and slrugglrnl to pull himsdf inside, but then !el go whim lw was ovnr a tlow1wbed, park employ­nl's told inv,~stigators. "I IP was looking for a plarn lo fall. IIP didn't want tn fall on the con­cniW. so fw foll 011 the llowcrbcd." I.arson 
said. Barlow, who was hired last year, dit!d a short ti11H' later at Orlando ltcgional Medical C1•11tf'I'. Tim ride, which slrntches between 1:anlasyJand and T1mwrrowJaml, was back in opl'ratio11 al't11r tlw accident. "\tVe are deuply saddt•rnid by what happened and our hearts go out to tlw family and fri1mds of this 'cast nw111h1ir ,'" said Disnny spokeswoman llena Callahan. using tlw company term. 
liwteifflfflt# 
The stock market 
was closed 
Monday in 
observance of 
President's Day 
ATHENS 
A protester snt himself ablaze outside parliament Monday in demonstrations lo demand Greece grant politi­cal asylum to fugitive Kurdish rebel leader Abdullah Ocalan. 
The llames were put out by other protesters and fire­fighters, who were Oil the scene after threats of self-immo­lalions from some of tlrn estimated 200 protesters. 
The demonstrator suffered serious burns lo the face and hands, while another protester standing nearby received slight burns and was also treated for shock, police said. It wasn't immediately clear what the protester used as an accelerant. 
Riot police scufned with the demonstrators, including many children, who carried flags and banners bearing pie­turns of Ocalan. No other injuries were reported, but 50 protesters were detained. 
Greece has refused to offer political asylum to Ocalan, who is sought by Turkey on terrorism charges connected his Kurdistan Workers Party's 15-year fight for autonomy. 
Meanwhile, another group of Kurds, some 500 refugees 

Monday as police tried to ptirsuadn an Athnns hospital to allow tlrnm to b1i temporarily hous1id in tlw hospital's abandoned leper wing. 
The hospital said it couldn't accept the rnl'ugecs and neighborhood residents blocked tlw entrance to llrn hospi­tal. . 
The Kurds have been living in tt!llls in in c1i11tral Koumoundourou square for months. An estimated '50,000 Iraqi Kurds il111gally nntnr CrPecn each year, many en route to W11stern Europ<'. 
The Kurdish homeland encompassns a geographical area overlapping parts of Turkey, Iraq and Iran. In Turkny. more than 37,000 people have died in the Kurd's fight. 
In Turkey on Monday, a Kurdish singer, r\hnrnl /\ya. was arrested for allegedly aiding Kurdish rebels. A conviction could result in five ylmrs in prison. 
Ahmct Kaya triggered a controv1•rsy by saying at an award ceremony that he would begin singing in tht) Kurdish language. He was also SPl)Jl •al a concert in Germany that was organized to benefit a Kurdish rnb11I group. lie reportedly also made a spned1 in l'avor of tho rebels. 
Tuesday, February 16, 1999 

page 6 The Observer• INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
¦ ROMANIA 
Court sentences union leader 
Assodaced Pres.~ Aign investment in the impov­erished country. In Pelrosani, Coznia told. the tlUCHARflST, milrnrs, "ThAY ga.v~ mo 18 
A fiory union diicf \Vhh has. years in J;>OSOll for what? For led Homaniau coaLmiuers un, a: demanding your.rights!" seri~s of violent pr(}t-0sts Was "Let's ~et organized ~nd get sente.ncc d M.oi1 day ...•.~y. Jl;te,, fo:ady to kav<1Jor Uuch.11r.est, Supreme Court to,J&:,yeat$.i/::l This Jimr.i, we shaU g!l the prison· -.ttp fto~.>:t~ mtntns wholeVll;;ty;". be sai~, referl"ing -for a dcadly1?9lr.,'trnpa.:g(,i. ·,. (<L ii. ncgotfattid,. ti'.nrl., qf 'tp~ 
Miron C021Ua, th.e bo{!.). min• January march just before the ers' leadPr, already hassetved mJnfts reached the ta{Jital
the 18-rn.Onth term,' (ir(,erfot city. . . .. . . ... . . . Ministry spokesrtHl.n. Ion Miners first ram.paged Petrescu said Cozrna Wollld bl" . through the capital in 1990, arrested i;hortly. breaking up a pl'o•democracy Yet the miners' leader. who protest. Six people died in was sentenced in absentia; skeet battles that lasted sever­later appeared in front of the al days. coal mining cmnpany in his Cozma was never charged in ilOme c.ity of Pottosani, 150 connection with tbosc clashes. miles northwest of Bucharest, Then-President Ion lHescu Romania's ca.pitat thanked him and his followers Some 300 miners gathering for "restoring order'' to the there to support him shouted, city. "Down wHh the But on Sept. 24, 1991. about government,"and "We'll Oght 5,000 coal miners from to our death ... to protect Romania's Jiu Vallev, headed Cozma." by Cozma, commandeered Cozma was convicted in a trains and traveled to the capi­deadly 1991 ram.page through tal. Subsequent Clashes.left Bucharest that prompted three people dead and nearly Romania's first posH;ommu• 300 injured. The prime minis­nist prime minister. Petre · ter stepped down several days 
Roman, to resign. 
On Monday. the high court upheld Cozma's convict.Jon for · illegaUy possessing fire~rms, undermining state authority and jeopardizing railwaytraf~ · fie. In addition to e;i,;tcnding his sentence•.. the poury, also banned Cozma from entering.Bucharest and Bettosapfior five years after he gets out of· prison. . .... . . .· .• .. .... ... .• · The Supreme C<>urt gi(inot explain the change in sentence. Last month, a ftve~day match by Cozma's miner$ threatened the governmentand dealt a blow to its efforts to boost for-
later to · meet the miners'demand. Last month, atleast 200 peo­plewe.re injured ,in clashes 

·with police when <':oz:rna led 10,000 miners on.a vlolent protest march across much of RQIIl~nia, d~rnanciing higher wages and no, llt~offs inJiu ·. Valley'sl3 min~s. · 
The. rimrch stopped short of· Buch~test only art.etPtit11e 
Minister Radti Vasile promised the miners wage increases of up.. to 35 percent if they cQme up with a plan to reduce losses at unprofitable mines by 20 percent this year.· 


¦ BRAZll 

Citizens celebrate Carnival by hosting parade competition 
Associated Pre.,, 

RIO DE JANEIRO 
The roughly 70,000 Carnival rovelers who had packed into the Brazilian "sam­badrome" Monday were on their feet. Red and white fire­works showered the sky and a chart-topping pop song boomed from the sound sys­tem. 
The samba group Salguciro -made up of a core of musi­cians and nearly 4,000 dancers ­hour of samba dance moves, some members looked ragged, provoking shouts of criticism and looks of disgust. Still, opinion pollsters Ibope ranked them second best out of seven neighborhood groups early Monday. 
By Tuesday morning, seven more groups will have parad• ed in the "sambadrome," a half-mile-long grandstand near downtown Rio built just for the parades. 
.January when the government floatod the currency to stem a massive outflow of' fon~ign reserves. 
"Whoever walks down the street can fool thn difference," Gerard Bourqueseau. presi­dent of Hiotur. told Monday's .Jornal do Brasil newspaper. 
Also Monday, a .Jewish leader criticized a samba group that used swastikas and other symbols f'rom Nazi Germany in a Carnival parade in Sao Paulo on Sunday. "It was dis­

had· entered and turbing and
'IT WAS DISTURBING AND BROUGHT BACK VERY BAD 
the fans were brought back 
MEMORIES FOR BRAZIL'S JEWISH COMMUNITY,'
jumping. vnry bad 
"You're the best, Salgueiro." 20­vear-old Ana­Maria Goncalves yelled as she danced to the tune. "We're going to win this. Bring on the champions." 
Brazil comes to a standstill for the annual four-day Mardi Gras-type bash that precedes the Christian observance of Lent. One of Brazil's best­known Carnival traditions is Rio's parade competition when city neighborhoods offer up huge ensembles of musi­cians and dancers that vie against each other for cash prizes and major bragging rights. 
A panel of judges picks the champions, taking into account each group's floats and costumes, samba tune. organization and drumming skills. This year's dedsion will be announ~ed the day after celebrations end Tuesday night. 
Although Salgueiro got an 
enthusiastic welcome, after an 
nrnniories f'or Brazil's IIHNI/Y SOIJEI, Jewish com-SENIOR RABRI OF THE fSIU:'.'1.UTE CONG!U:GATION munity," said 
This year's favorites arc cur­rent joint champions Mangueira and Bnija-Flor, both due to perform late Monday. Mangueira, basnd in a slum district, is to Carnival in Brazil what Pnle is to soc­cer. 
Also popular was the group Uniao de Ilha do Goyernador. whose floats had been destroyed first by fire, then by flooding. Volunteers had worked around the clock to make sure thf1 group's parade still looked brilliant on tlrn night. _ 
The .city's tourism board. Riotur: estimated 150,000 tourists visited this year's Carnival, double that of 1998. 
Brazil is more attractive to 
visitors this year because its 
currency, the real, has 
plunged in value 35 percent 
against the dollar since mid­
ll«mry Sobel, 
senior Habbi of' thn lsranlil!\ CongrPgation of Sao Paulo. 
Tlw Vai-Vai samba group used the symbols to pay homage to Nostradamus, a 1<it.h-r:nntury Frnnch prophcl said to have predicted histori­cal events including Nazi Germany. Samba group mem­bers mnt with Sobel bdore thc parade to say no ofl'Pnse was intend!1d, but refused to with­draw the symbols. 

Meanwhile at Trinidad's Carnival, a perf'ormer known as "Singing Sandra" on Monday became the sccond woman to be named Calypso King in tlrn 50-year history of musical competitions there. 
Sandra Des Vignes of Port of' Spain beat out rival Sugar Aloes during the all-night competition of songs p1!ppcrnd · with social criticism, a lixtLm' of tlrn nation's annual l'Pstival. 
e::Come Join the Tradition }iare now being accepted for <the 1999-2000 academic sch 
~~\ftl&Y pick up applications at the ,, >; Qf;:fice of Student Activities 315 Lafortune 
February 26, 
Ti1esday, February l6, l999 The Observer• NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Former Nixon advisor, Watergate participant dies 
ATI.ANTA 

John 1•:hrlii-hman, l'rnsid1int Nixon's tlrn11Pslir affairs arlvis­1' r w h o w a s d is gr a r fl d a 11 d imprisonnd !"or his rohi in tlrn WaLPrgat.1• 1'.0V1'r-11p that ulti­111at.Ply l1•rl Lo Nixon's rnsigna­1.i()11, has di Pd. IIP was 73. 
Fhrlichman diPd Sunday of' 1111t11ral causPs at his h1mw in Atlanta. IIn had sufl'nrnd from diahdf's, his son. Tom. said Monday. 
j;_lirlic-l1111an and Nixon's chiPI' ol' st.afT, 11.H. I lalclnrnan, Wl'rn virtually inrlistinguishabll' hy tlw public. Both w11rn closP to Nixon and l.lll'y hPrnnw known as I.hi• •· IIPrlin Wall" lwcausn Ilwy I' IJ ll s ti lll t n cl a kiTl cl fl r palal'n guard that shinld('(! t.lw l'Prlusiv1• Nixon from u11wnl­r11111I' l'lll'Oll 11 l.Pl'S. 
t:hrlirhrn11n r-oinNI a phrasn 
I Im I Ii n(' a llll' pa I' I. () r l h I' 
11at.io11's poliliral h•xinrn wlwn IH• advisl'd :--Jixnn lo all()w L. 1'11tri!'k (;ruy. tl1<•n art.ing dir1•1·tor ol' th1• 1:1H, to b111·orn1• tlw l'all guy l'or \\'atPrgatl'. and to IPaVP liilll "twisting slowly, ~lnwlv in IIH• wind." 
In /\pril 197:1, as the covnr­up bngan lo unravul and prns­su rn mountnd, Nixon hold a tParl'ul mn<'ting at his prnsi­dm1tial rntreat at Camp David, Mel.. with his two intimatn aud p11wl'rl'ul advisnrs -tlrn iron­willed llald<'man and thl' S()!f­controllnd Ehrlichman. By that time, Nixon's counsel. John l>Pan. had implicalml tlwm in 
Lim Watergate r.ovPr-up. Nixon lrnp!)d that tho sac:rif'icn woulr! 
staunch the scandal 
an ll

spar,• him. 
TlH' nPxt day. Nixon l'irnd Dl\an. and arcnpt1•d lhn rPsignal.ions nf' 
II a I cl nm an. 
Elirlichman and 
a 11,o rrwy gnnnra I Richard Kl!\ind innst. 
The rovnr-up was lhn allPmpt to concnal l'rom the puhlir 1111' Whitn !lousp's i11volv1•rncnt almost from the start in tlrn bniak-in al 1>1·111111-rulif l'al'ly lwadl111ar­tPrs al llw Watiirgaln offif'n 
JPW CELEBRATE GOOD TIMES JPW 

JPW is finally here!!! Ticket Pickup is on February 16th and 17th, 1-lOpm in the Corby Room of Lafortune 
JPW CELEBRATE GOOD TIMES JPW 
complex in Washington on "inside" political novnls, and June l 7, 1972. became a radio commentator. 
Tlw burglars, quickly timl to llis conviction gniw out of' Nixon's rn-1!lnclion campaign, his f'als11 t11stimony to a Snnatn wern trying to replar.n a faulty committflfl and of a break-in in te lnpl1011 n bugging cl evi ce the Bcvnrly Hills office of Dr. installed during an narlil~r Lewis Fielding, a psychiatrist brnak-in. TIH'Y got caught who had treated l>anil>l wlrnn a security guard noticed Ellsbcrg, tlrn f'ormnr l'nntagon they had taped a door to kncp aide who lnakncl the Pentagon it from locking. lln rnmovnd Papers to The New York 
Times. 
flalcloman and 
.John Mitchnll. 

'IWAS NEVER THE PERSON EVERYBODY SAW IN THE  who  had  bnen  
WATERGATE HEARINGS. BUT I HAVE RFAUZED THAT  Nixon's law part­ 
I WAS NEVER GOING TO CATCH UP WITH MY IMAGE. IT  nnr and attorrrny gnneral, also  
WAS SET IN CONCRETE.'  w1H"e among those  

imprisoned for thoir Watnrgatn

JO/IN f::l!IU.ICIIMAN 
role. 

NtxtJN's IJ()Mf,,ST!(.' AFFAIRS A!)VISOn 
th n  ta pn,  tlrn  bu r g I a rs  
rnplacod  it  and  tlrn  guard  
callPd t.lrn policn.  

Nixon won rc-nlnction that Nnvnml.wr hut whnn he was l'orcnd by the Supreme Court lo surrender the tapn that showed his own cal'ly involV<'· nrnnl in thn covnr-up. his impeachment became innvitahln and a few days later. on /\ug. 1J. 1974, he lrncanrn the f'irst and only prnsident to rnsign. llis suc­cPssor, c;nrald Ford, pardoned him. 
1-:hrlichman wnnt to prison in Ortolwr 11)7(> and served 18 months of' a four to night ycar term for obstruction ol' justicn, conspiracy and l)llrjury, quit f)(llitics. movnd to Santa Fe, N. ~, , bncamc a fatlrnr. wrote 
Ehrlich man 
nnvcr scnmnd 

able to escape the ghosts of Wakrgatc and its eff'f1ct on th<i public's imprns­sion of him. 
"I was n c v c r t.lrn pc rs on nvorybody saw in tlrn Watergate hnarings. But I have realizr,d that I was rwvnr going to catch up with my imag11. It was sot in concrete. It botlrnrnd mn enormously l'or a while, what pcopln thought of me," lrn told the Washington Post in 1979. 
"l made myself' st.op caring because I knew I couldn't do a thing about it, and I knew it was going to tnar mn up ii' I trind." 
In an intr,rvinw in 1982 to promote his memoir "Witrrnss to Power" E h r I ic h 111 a n mi ni rn iz11 d h is own role in the scandal and said Nixon's character kPpt him from tolling thn truth about Watnrgato. 
"IL was a question of' wnak­nnss," Ehrlichrnan said. "lie simply could not bring hirrnwlf' to do something which I think hn saw as dPlivnring himsnll' to his e1rnmins." 
lihrlichman was born March 
20. 1')2:i, in Tacoma, Wash. lln graclualPd from Univnrsity of' California, Los /\ng(dns and got a law d1!grnn at. Stanford UniVPrsity in I')!'i 1. 
During World War II, John was a load navigator in tlw 8th Air Form wlwrn lw earned tlw Air Mnclal elustnrs and tlrn Dis ti ngu islH1d Flying Cross. Bnf'orn joining tho WhitP llouso, Ehrlich111a11 was a partnnr in t.hn Seattle law l'irm of llullin, Ehrlichman, HobPrts & 1 lodgn from I'J!'i2 to I%8. 
Af'tPr gotting out of' prison, hn movnd to Santa Fo, N.M., wlwrn lw lwgan a nnw ear1wr as an artist, writ.Pr and com­nH'nlator. 1-:hrlichman wrotl' 1'1111r novfds: "Tlin Company" 1<J7 <,; "Th n Who In Tr u t. h " l1J71J; "Tlrn China Card" I'J8<>; {co-author) ol' "Tlw Higby Fill'" 1989. Ilo also wrot.n a mnmoil' which was publislwd in 11)8:{. "Wilnnss to l'owPr: Tlw Nixon Years." 
11 n n v n 11 t. u a 11 y 111 o v 1Hl to Atlanta to s11rvn as snnior vicl' prnsidnnt of' I.aw Environnwntal. 
!In is s11rviv1Hl by his wil'P, KarPn Ililliard. four sons and two daught11rs and Iris motlH•r, Lillian. Furrnral Sl'rvicns will Im pri­vate. 
ao+ News? Observer.obsV\ews.1@V\d.edu 
Internship Information Meeting for 

ACCION 
micro-lending program in 
A I h11qul'rq1u! 
Chirngo El Paso Nl'w York Cir_,. San Antonio San [)il'go 
( ror business students) 
and 

Hispanic and African A1nerican Leadership Program 
Hispanic: Chic·ago S1111 Dil'gO South Bend 
African American : Sm,rh ill'11d 
Limited Time 
6.9%APR 
On balance transfers 

Transfer those high-balance credit cards to your Notre Dame Federal Credit Union VISA or MasterCard and save. 
www.ndfcu.org 
(219) 239-6611 or (800) 522-6611

'.J'\ ~~!~~~~~,~~ 
• rh,s special rate.: appl1t.-s fur thl' lirst 6 months 011 balancr tran'.-.{Crs only. Rate will lhl!n revert back tu 14.92%. I\ docs not include existing balances on any Notre Danie Federal Credit Union Ma,.tcrCard or VISA. Prorno1ion v..ili<l January R. through March 3 I. 1999 


5:00 -6:00 PM Center for Social Concerns February 17, 1999 
Find out about these tuition scholarship, and academic credit programs ta•
Hear from students who have been there!~•.;\: '1 ~ 0~ 
CONCERNS 

VIEWPOINT 

¦ COUJMI\I 
The ~ope: Visionary of Human Justice 
Perhaps I am just being paranoid, but the impression I received from the main­stream media regarding Pope John Paul Il's recent visits to Mexico City and St. 
ND/SMC Right to Life 
Louis was that Americans are respectfully waiting for the Pope to pass away. Reporters emphasize thfl Holy Father's frail condition and c<>mment on his denunciation of abortion and assisted sui­cide. They show for him the deference due to one who is old and sick, yet in my opin­ion, fail largely to communicate the quiet, overwhelming holiness of this special man. God offers us through the Pope, the Vicar of Christ Himself, the gift of the truth that will liberate us in eternity and here <>n Earth. 
But even here at Notre Dame, especially when reading the exchange in this news­paper, I worry that the Pope is being writ­ten off as behind the times, a stodgy old man who is out of touch with our lives and who impinges upon our personal freedom by asserting certain moral doctrines as the law of the Church. Last semester, the campus publication Common Sense print­ed an article entitled "The Long, Sad Legacy of J<>hn Paul II." Additionally, the Progmssivc Student Alliance implicitly questions the mural authority of the Holy Father when it rails against the prohibi­tion of abortion information in the Women's Resource Center or when two of its members wrote last semester on the necessity of safe, legal abortion to keep women from being oppressed by capital­ism. 
Popn John Paul II has never !lagged in his calls to encl abortion, but amid the hystiiria that word ignittis. what gets lost is the positive and consistent message of life that the Holy Father has championed throughout his pontificate and especially in his encyclical Evangelium Vitae. 
Throughout the document, the Pope stresses the "'spiritual' kinship uniting mankind in one great family, in which all share the same fundamental good:'flqual personal dignity" (I, 8). The Pope urges Catholics to exhibit solidarity with the most vulnerable members of society, including children, immigrants, the elder­ly, the sick, the poor and the handicapped. The Pope additionally condemns violence against women, abuse of the environment, arms trade and our unjust distribution of goods. 

Furthermore, nei­one PSA colum­
ther is violence 'W"EN I READ oF THE PSA's FAST AND nist referred to against a murder­RAUJFS OVER RIGHTS, FREEDOM the Church's er to be tolerated, teachings on sex­
AND DIGNITY FOR GAYS, LESBIANS AND BISEX­
for that murderer uality as "periph­
UALS, I WONDER HOW THEY CAN SIMULTANE-

is a child of God eral" doctrines. endowed with OUSLY BRUSH ASIDE TI-IE MOST INNOCENT AND States inherent individ­Evangelium
DEFENSELFSS HUMAN LIFE, THE UNBORN BABY. 
ual value. Vitae, "when
FOR ME, THIS DIMINISHES CONSIDERABLY THE
"V\/hoever attacks God is forg<>tten, human life in SINCERilY OF THEIR OTHER ARGUMENTS.' the creature · Student Alliance toward abortion and other Catholic moral teachings. In theory, a Progressive Student Alliance is a good idea. Through the year we have seen the passion of this group of students for pur­suing social change, whether on campus, at the School of the Americas, or in our economic system. But I question their pri­orities. 
When they express the language of our faith on solidarity and human dignity, their words ring holl<>w to me. It sounds almost as if they feel they can choose to keep those elements of Catholicism which serve them well, and discard the rest. Last 
semester, recall, 
some way," declares the Pope, "attacks God himself' (I, 9). 
The pro-life message of the Catholic Church is so beautiful because it cele­brates all people. When asked why a can­didate's position on abortion most influ­ences my voting, I explain that the issue can tell so much about a person. I am ter­rified of a culture in which "the life which could result from a sexual encounter thus becomes an enemy to be avoided at all costs" (I, 13). One who respects unborn life should be more likely to hold a rever­ence for women, the poor and the termi­nally ill. Anyone who is truly pro-life should also share the Pope's concern for the weakest in our society, and should be able to look at another human and see the light behind her eyes and the glow of her soul that mark her as a child of God. 
For all of their appeals to the Catholic faith in arguing for sexual orientation in tho nondiscrimination clause, I cannot understand the attitude of the Progressive itself' grows unin­

telligible" (I, 22). I use the word "unintelligible" here to refer to the validity of' the PSA's positions on abortion and sexuality in the context of the entire faith from which they draw their arguments. When I read of the PSA's fast and rallies over rights, freedom and dignity for gays, lesbians and bisexuals, I wonder how they can simultaneously brush aside the most innocent and defenseless human life, the unborn baby. For me, this diminishes c<>nsiderably the sincerity of' their other arguments. 
Last year, volunteers at the Women's Resource Center, however compassionate and well-intentioned they may have been, supplied to students simply asking f'or information on pregnancy and abortion pamphlets that included prices of abortion and directions to abortion facilities. They also offered referral to an abortion coun­selor. Any university that legitimates such actions 'implicilly condoning the destruc­tion of au innocent human baby' is not Catholic in any sense of the word. If the PSA finds it perfectly acceptable for Notre Dame to violate this absolutely fundamen­tal truth about tlrn value of all life, how can they logically demand that the univer­sity legally codify nondiscrimination against sexual orientation on the basis of the Church's human rights positions'? 
Perhaps some pro-life individuals do claim membership in the Progressive Student Alliance, and if so, I challenge you to raise your voices and denounce the statements of your allies on abortion and the WRC. If you feel so acutely the pain or a gay or lesbian student who may foci unprotected here. should you not at least publicly acknowlndge the tragedy of the child denied her first breath of' air outside 
thn womb and lwr lirst look into lwr mother's eyes'! This is where ru:-.µucl and justice for all humanity begins, in thosn 
nine months of our lives before birth. When a culture can look at the ultrasound picture of' a ten week <>Id baby sucking her thumb and still say that abortion should be readily accessible, it can hardly be expected to treat oth<ir "opprnssnd" groups with courtesy. 
Without s1!curing the rundanwntal right to life for all humanity. all otlwr rights and freedoms mean nothing. I chal11)ngn you, my fellow Notre Damn students and nwm­bers of the Progrnssive Student Alliancn, to use the emotion you have built up OV!)l" the last few weeks to do something truly progressive. Darn to commit yourselves consistently to the Catholic truth that all life is sacred. When we hear that message amid our world's many instances of disre­spect and violence, our 80-year-old !'ope sounds strikingly radical. 
Laura Antkowiak is a governmenl major and participant in the I lesburgh Program in Public Service Policy. She is the Director ofNotre /Jame/Saint Mary's flight lo UJi', and has taken up politics ajierjinally acceplin9 that she tt>ill neu<'I' pitch ji1r the /Jaltimore Orioles. 
The views expressed in this column are those oflhe author and no/ necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
¦ DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
¦ QumE OF THE DAY 
, As long as there are tests, there will be prayer in public schools.' 
-Evanstar Book ofOne Liners 

VIEWPOINT 
page l) -------------os~tRvER -----------------Tuesday, February I 6, 1999 
¦ THE 8!7LLE OF SAINT MARv'S ¦ COLUMN 
Where Do You
The State of the Union 
Ami now, a lllllSsag<• from tlw l'rnsidnnt gotll'll so,ni, serious Pn1sidm1tial subponna 01' till' UnitPtl StatPs: a(·tion. if you smell what the Man From 
Stand? 

Fdlow Anwrkans, various citiznns cur­Ilop1! is cooking, and you compir,tcly blew 
l'Pntly im•an·Pral.t'd 1111 my lwllall'. various dtil.f'ns 1·t11T1•11tly rl1•n•as,·tl 011 my bPlmlf. 
Mary Beth Ellis 
l>cnuwrnlif' National Commitlc,~ conl.rihu­lnrs. Satan incarnntPd in t.hn form of K1\n Starr and lialws across tlw f'ruitPd plain: 
In spill' or my imp1md1mnnt and trial in llw Sl'tHllf', 1>11lls show Lhal tlm majority of 1•itizP11s fully s11pporl tfw rnncept of a. pt>r­juring clipwml rt>pn•st>nling you. as a 11ation, in llw \-\'hitP lloww. It is li1w A11wri1:a11s sud, as lhPsl' wlwsn mind­lPss support and stumpy litllt> stan­dards haVP madf' my l'lllin• Jlrl'Si­dPta:y possi­hll'. Tlw11ks, 
l'('IJIJOlllY-
pm·ili;HI citi­11•ns! Y'all rock. .lust think of' all tlw run WI' would havn missPcl out on if I wm<'n'l so ho1wlnssly 
diarming: 
.loy1:vln J;_ld1,-rs'. 
Fordng Llw population ol' tlu• ,,ntir<' l:arth t.o imag­i111• tlw First (;Pnitalia. 
IJHTl'ilSIHI 
Barbra Strnisancl !'XJ)OS(m•. 
My daugh­tpr's hair. Tlw stirring 
irnagn of nw 
striding towards llw 


crazy nuclear

caml'ras of tlw 
world to opPn 
capabilities! 
Nobody pisses 

llw t<J'Jli 
---· 
off the UN like

Su llllllPI' 
Olympics in 
you can1 You 
kill mu, man.

/\llanta and it. You, sir. arn a disgracn LO thr. office. Call me for poinLBrs. Ask !'or 'El Conquistador.' 
Now. to the distinguislwd mcmbi,rs of the llous,\ .Judiciary Committen: You suck. Ya'll linar nw'' You SUCK. You ain't got nothing on tlw Big Mac! You tdl Al Gorn to caner.I thal ordcw nn those nr.ws arldrr.ss labBls causP I ain't goin NOW! IEllE. my f'rinnds 1 You fool my paiu'? · 
Fm•I Tl IIS! Fat crap. l•:nt A BH;, STFAM­INC CHAI'. You hear me, Slr.ve Chabot, H­Ohio'? You hear nm. Christopher Cannon. R­lltah'' You jrr);f. kePp silling through ynur l.ap11 Lrnnscripls and your smnnn samples and your 80 bazillion subpoenas. What did they get you'' Another Janrns Carvilln book and an cynful of Linda Tripp, that's whut. 
Whoo()o! Who's. the man" l'ivl th11 man! I AM( I i\M! I AM THE M/\N!' 
But, hore, I'll make it up to y'all: I'm sorry. Sniff. I'm real­ly. truly s'r,rry. S!lP how sorry I am? Look­I'm biting my lownr lip and giving you thr. thumbs up. TII/\T is how sorry I am. Them ... all lixml! And lookin hnre ­
l'M STILL TJJE 
PRESfl)ENT! 
I suppose I should addrnss my foreign policy, now that I've recently decid­ed to have one. People of Iraq, my job looks fairly sale for the moment. which means that your buildings and small children am, too. Did you nnjoy your recr.nt lire­works show courtesy of the 
U.S. Army? 
Bam! More approval num­bers for me! Saddam, call me, we'll grab a beer. OK? You and your 

procnmling to lrip 011 my way to the microphono. llPlicious vitiws of my linr., line thighs P111·asl'Cl in Spandex running shorts. 
i\l r;orn. 
My wifo. 
/\I Corn's wif'i•. 
Tlw sight of the PrnsidPnt ol' the Uniind Statns. in th,\ procnss ol' tm;tif'ying befom a grand jury, having to ask p<'rmission to talw a First Tinkln. 
NPw nwnning to the ll'rm 'cigar holder.' 
l'vn b11nn thinking a lot lat11ly about Hichard Nixon who, a!Uwugh dead, unnds som1• political advice: Dick. dudu, if' you'm gonna commit. impPar.lmhlr. offenses, at lnasl havn 1'1111 doing it. You don't piddle around with hush monr.y and thr, CIA and <;od knnws what all kind of boring guvern­nwnt crap. I nwan, if you're planning on breaking into n hotnl room, at least makn s11r11 tlrnrn's sonrn D-cup prime rib waiting for you in tlwrP, you know? You could've 
Listen, it's benn rt•al, but I havn to bail. You out there, with the big hair. You'll do, missy. llaul on up lo the Oval and Lake it off, OK? Lmnme grab my Barry Whitc CD and I'll ho along in a soc. 
Thank you, and God Riess America. 
Mary Beth Ellis, who is currently nause­ated, is a senior at Saint Mary's College majoring in English writing and political science with a minor in US. llislory. Special thanks to the four unfortunate members ofthe Notre Dame Glee Uub who endured with adorafile graf'e her general sobbing andfawning when they appeared at her door on Sunday with a fabulously delivered Singing Valentine, !lnd extra spti­cial thanks to the gentleman who sent them there. 
The 11iews expressed in this column are those ofthe author, and not 1iecc!ssarily those ofThe Observer. 

When I first decided to writn this was bruised and wt all ovnr thn column. I was going to summarizr. upp1\r-hall' ol' his hodv. As ii' this was all of the d£ibatcs surrounding the not nnough. his atlarkPrs carv(!d llw inclusion or Sflxual orinnlalion in tlw word "fag" in both his fornarm and non-discrimination clause. I plannPd ahdom('ll with a pnn. on using legal, moral and Urnological Adam proc1wrlPd to crawl into his 
ideas to support ===============~ classroom and this inclusion. pass-out on tlw
p 

Drawing from 11oor. IIP was
rogressive

the very tlwn rushed lo Catnchism of the tlw hospital. lln
Student 

Catholic Churt:h, will live, but tlw I hop11d t.o show scars may go that the omcers dnnpnr lha11 a
A11 · 

of this L'nivorsitv word latloood
IanCe 

have not lived · 011 his arm and 
up lo tlrn leach-----------------slom1u·.h. Adam 
ings or tho Church that they hold so barely remembnrs Friday, and can­
dflar. not evnn recall the t'xact nvnnts of' 
In addition, I planned to illustrate his attack. Tlw physical scars will the import.ancr. of tho rallies, sit-ins last a long timn, but Ow nrnotional and fasts in scars that this enhancing attack will campus nwarn-'ADAM WAS ATTACKED ON lnavn 011 him 
ness of this HIS WAY TO SCHOOL AND may never issue. The sig-lw11I. nilicance of BEATEN SEVERELY. HE WAS With this in 
these r.vents BRUISED AND CUT ALL OVER THE my mit1cl. I 
reached a di-rcturnml to max at Hrn Feb. UPPER-HALF Of HIS BODY. As IF nxamirrn the 2 rally when 19 happy world of
THIS WAS NOT ENOUGH, HIS 

courageous Notrn Danw, people stood on ATTACKERS CARVED THE WORD wlrnrn a gay stage in a show and lnshian
"FAG" IN BOTH HIS FOREARM

of' solidarity student group and proclaimed cannot ev1\n
AND ABDOMEN WITH A PEN.' 
to everyone in 
attendance 

that they am proud of who they are. 
I wanted to say that the Student SenatP, the Faculty Senate and the /\cadr.mic Council all passed rnsolu­tions in favor of adding sexual orien­tation to the non-discrimination clause, but that it was 12 people who overrode all those bodies and all the people they represent. Not only that, but the 12 p1iople did not even have the courage to stand up for how they felt and instead hid their decision until it was necessary to make it public. 
Finally, I wanted to praisn the rncent Faculty Senate resolulion condemning tho Board of Fellows' actions. I wanted to thank that over­whelming majority of faculty sena­tors who said that what the Fellows did was unethical and that the ratio­nale for their decision had already bmm refuted by the Academic Council. 
But then something happened. and though I still want to express my views on all those things I listnd above, I decided that this story is way too importanl to go untold. I sat down to check my e-mail on Sunday and found a copy of an article from Sunday's r.dition of the San Francisco Examiner from an unknown sender. Tho contonts of this article touched, inspired and saddened me. 
The artir.le tells the story of Adam Colton, a 17-ycar-old high school senior in Novato, California. Adam is openly gay and has put up with dis­criminatory harassment because of this since he "came out" back in September. This treatment ranged from vandalism of his car, to dis• criminatory comments at school and vandalism of his family's home. It got so bad that Adam decided to lake only two classes at his high school and the rest of his courses Lhrough an independent study pro­gram. 
This past Friday, however, /\dam was damaged in a way that will last longer than vandalism or name-call­ing. Adam was attacked on his way to school and beaten severr.ly. lie hav,1 a room to 
nieet in so that tlwy can support Pach otlrnr. let alone legal protection from discrimi­nation. Many will say that what hap­pened to /\dam would 1wv11r happ1111 here. Are you so surn'? Ask any gay or lr.shian what they havr. had to !.(O through. /\sk about the discriminato­ry words, threatening lntt1irs and unending harassment some or them receive. Thon conrn tell nw that what happnncd to Adam will nevr.r hap­p1m horn. 
In his column on Feb. 'J Sr.an Vinck attempted to explain that those of' us striving for the accnptanc11 and pro­tection of' homosexuals on this cam­pus am tlrn true source of hatred and intolerancn. Snan. I have two things to say lo you. First. the very name of' your column, "Not pearn, but the sword," suggests that you do not can• about tolr.rancr. or love. I striv1~ for peacn and justic1n, as do the rnst of thosP pnopln involvnd with this issue. lf' you prnfor violnncti (the sword) ovnr pnacn, tlH'n you have no right to prnach about hatrml and intolorancn, nor do you have any right lo usn Catholicism as your shield becausn ALL Christian reli­gions teach peacn, justice, charity and love. Second. how could people who am striving to prnvnnt ttrn kind of hatn-crimos committed against Adam Colton possibly bn hatof'ul'? 
I hope the story of /\dam is .ts illu­minating for all nf' you as it was for me. The non-discrimination issue will not dio with tlrn Board of Follows' decision. I guarantnn that. It is lime for each and ,wery one or us to uxamine our own views and h111iefs, do our own riisParch, think our own thoughts and answer I.his quP.stion for oursnlvns: Wlwn) dn I stand'? 
/)avid Hartwig i.'I a .<1oplwmore Cmwmmen!/!inglish major. Ifo is a rrwmber ofthe Progressir•e Student Alliance and the Vice-President of the College Democrats. 
The views expres:wd in this col­umn are those ()/the author and not necessarily those of11,e Obseroer. 
..,..__,___,_____ __,.. 
O
THE 

page 10 -------------------------------------------Tuesday, February 16, 1999
BSERVER 

__..,_ 

A Celebration of 
32nd Annual Sophomore Literary appreciation of writing to stud 
By LOUBEL CRUZ 
Assistant Scene Ed,co, 
Playwright Martin Farquhar Tupper once said, "A good hook is tlrn best of" frirnds, tlw samn today and f'ornvor." 
T h a l iS O 11 P O f' t h (' p I" i11 C i p I AS W hiC h tlw Sophomore l.iwrary Festival bases tlwir drdiratinn on -to celebrate authors. their lives and works. With past guPsts including Arthur Miller. Tom Clancy and Tennessee Williams, the Festival has become one of' the most popular events at Notre Danw. displaying both thn works of' nationally and int1!rnalionally renowned writers as .well as prosp1\ctive student writers. 
"Tfrn purpose of' the Sophomore Literary Festival is to bring important literary f'igures to campus so that students can have closn contact with great lit­eratun• and its neators,'' said Annie Halph, a 1999 Sophomore LitPrary Festival committee member. 
The 32nd annual Sophomore Literary Festival (SLF) bngan this week. with the f'irst readim! held last Sunday and the event continuing until Friday: Tim Festival aims to shovv the Notre Dame commu­nity modern day literary figures and offer an opportunity l'or audience participation in a variety of readings. discussions and workshops. Each night of the week authors givP speeches or readings aboul their works and creative processes; during thr, day, the sanrn authors host workshops (lnd ses­sions !'or students. 
"SI.F is a Notrn Dame tradition and serves as an event in whirh both students. faculty and the com­munity are ablP to meet and interact ·with authors," said Jim Bilek, chairman of the 1999 SLF committee. "Tlw nvent is one of few that tar"gets tlrn mon\ artistic and creative side of' campus." 
The Sophomorn Literary Fr,stival began in 19(17 wlH'll Notre Dame student .I. Richard Hossi orga­nized a symposium of literary scholars lo honor the works of William FaulknPr. Rossi's new idea was supported by tlw sophomorn class. who raised $1500 for the livent, and they were able to sponsor four Faulkner scholars to lecture and host film prnsentations for a week. 
The Festival was considernd a success and H.ossi decided to rnak<' it annual nvent. lln askPd sopho­morn .John Mroz to chair tl11: next Festival and Mroz 1'.ontinuml the tradition of bringing prominent writers to campus. With the hnlp of former Arts 
and Letters Dean, Reverend Charles Sheedy, Mroz successfully brought Catch 22 author Joseph 
Heller to Notre Dame. 

That year, the Sophomore Literary Festival received national attC\ntion both for the impressive group of writrrs attnnding -llrller, William F. BucklPy and Norman l\lailcr to name a few -and the politieal events surrounding the occasion likri the assassination of Martin Luther King. 
Through the years, SLF startl!d Lo in·cl.ude stu­dent writArs into their presentations and br,gan to provide workshops taught by thn guest authors to the studeuts and community. 
This year's SLF committee hl'gan their work last spring with a brainstorming session to form a long 
'THESOPHOMORE LITERARY FESTIVAL BRINGS 
ARTISTS IN THE LITEIµRY flELD TO THE 
NOTRE DAME CAM Pl S. IT SERVES AS AN EVENT IN WHICH BOTH STlfOF.NTS. FAClll.TY ANr> THE COM­MUNITY ARE ABLE TO MEET AND INTERACT WITH 
AUTHORS.' 

JIM BILEK 
Cll4.If/M111\', SOPHOMOI/E LITER11RY FESTIVAL 
list of potential guests. With the help from faculty and professor suggestions, the f'irteen to twenty committee members were able to chose writers who met the literary standards of the l'estival. They sent the authors invitation ll'tters over the sum­mer. This year's guests are among the> invitees who acrepted and wcrn available this week. 
"The committrw shoots for everyone, I Rven sent an invitation to Tori Amos· and Sir Paul :vicC:artney," said Bilek. "Tori Amos was actually interested but could not make it do to conflicts of schedules." 
"We try to schedule authors who represent a broad field of literature and I think we succeeded," said TTalph. 
This year's gunst include: science author Alan Lightman. novelist and essayist Leonard Michaels, The Basketball Diaries author Jim Carroll, science­fiction author Haymond E. Fnist and poet Annie Finch. 
In addition to the nationally renowned authors invited to llHi Festival, several student wrilors aro chosf'n to rPad their work onr• night of' thn wn1ik. 
This year, six Notrn Dam1\ sludc~nts -two sopho­mores and four MF/\ candiclat1!s -will rPacl an nxamplr> of their writing. Tlw committ.Pn hnld audi­tions in Purly December to d1oosc• thc ri!adcrs. In Novn111b1ff, SLF also sponsorncl a co!TPl'housc al Hecknr's with gradual!' stuc!Pnt rr•aclings and an open microphone !'or otlrnr stut!Pnts. 
''On tlw Student lfoad1\r night. budding writPrs from tlw Notre Damn student body are giv<'n tlw chance to highlight llwir works." said BilPk. 
The workshops and discussions ol'l'PrPd focus more on the students' questions about writing and the guPst authors gPt a cha11cn to tPaC'l1 tlwir stylP. 
"The format is completnly up to tlw author giving llrn workshop. but it is a gr<!at opportunity to receive r,wdback about thn writing procPss in g<'n­eral and a further opportunity to communi,·atl' with tlrn artist," said Bilnk. 
"In llrn workshops, som<' authors want studPnls to bring their own literary works. whilP othnr-; want to discuss different aspncts of an author's life," said Amber Thill, SLF rommilte!! nwmlwr. 
Throughout the year, thP committl'I' has fundraised with local busirwssPs and campus orga­nizations for advertisenrnnts in tlrn Festival pro­gram. They have also arranged travel plans for tlw guest speakers and dcsign<id publicity advertis,~­ments. 
"I have learned just how much hard work and determination it takns to plan for such an ev,\nt," said Bilek. "It has givPn nw insights, through tlw authors.on the writing f'ield." 
The Sophomorn LitPrary Festival's goal is to offer the ram chancn for NotrP lhtmn stud<'nts to meet, c:ommunicatn, and l<'arn from pol'ts. novPl­ists, songwrit!'rs and sc:rl'PnwrilPrs. 
"SLF bnndits studPnts by h<'ightPning campus interest in literaturn and filling tlw ll<'l'd for litnr­ary enrichmnnt," said llalph. "It frnlps to crnatn a university culturn that valuns and c!'!Pbratns goof literaturn." 
"I hope that the Sophomore l.itPrary FPstival will be appreciated by the studPnts," said Bilc>k. "TlwsP authors am amazing and tlw opportunity lo nw<'l tlrnm is vnry seldom." 

Stacy Cartledge 
Wednesd·ay; ,Feb·~ .. t,:z'. · · 
·:-,<ff"ony:~ijt~outaF·· 8 p.m. Raymond E. Feist reading .Lisa Marie Fabrega 


OTHf

Ii11.·,day, February IG, l 999 BSERVER page 11 
iterature 
estival will bring an ts and community 
JIM CARROLL 
Works include: The Basketball Diaries, Organic Trains, 4 Ups and 1 Down, Living at the movies 
Mr. Carroll is also the leader of the Jim Carroll Band whichhas recorded three albums with Atlantic Records. 


RAYMOND 
E. FEIST 
Works include: The Riftwater Saga: Magician, Silverthorn, A Darkness at Sethanon; The Empire Trilogy: Prince of the Blood, The King's Buccaneer and Faerie Tale 


ANNIE FINCH 
Works include: 
The Ghost of Meter, A Formal Feeling Comes, Eve, Meter in English 
Ms. Finch's opera libretto, A Captive Spirit, will be produced next year. 


1;sc'ENE THROUGH. OUR EYES 
Better than any textbook 
Bjt'ADAM MALLORD 
Sc;,m,· Copy. :F.JiM 
Riithiat1·• 
No,lamnot calling soldiers hack from battle or dealing with anything to do with war for that matter. Instead, I'm callingforNOU'e Dame students to get away from it all. Away from homework, away from tests and away from cWC'l'Y otMntnnoyance of being a student. 
Last FrJday I had the oppottunity to participate in tho lirst 1u1wual Sorin Hall R(!tma:t, which t.ook plac'./1 at a houso noar Lake Michigan. At first, I was not interested in sacrificing my Frid!\y night: for the sake of talking with a group or guys I sn1-1 i,veryday, With a lit:t11, influence from my f"rionds, howPV()I', I agrued to sign my Friday night away. 
WhenFridav rolled around, I st:ill looked ahead lo tho 
rettettt with some apprehtmsion. I know that I could cancnl, 
asmany of myfriends who had convinced mo to go had 
d1!ne; and participate in a different yet probably less holy 
exp,,rien(:e th;tt night. 
Hollowed through with my commitment, however, and loaded my gear into the car. At'ter an hour of driving, we arriveq at the house at which we were going to porl'orm our retreat f1mctions, and it was only a coupln blocks away from tl;i;eshore ofLake Michigan. 
We became accustomed to the house, and immediately a Oaytol\a electric race tl'ack was round. Of' course, wo sot it. up<andraced against each other with the competitive spirit only found at a retreat. After t.he dust settled and I rntired v{ctorious, we had to gel down to businoss. ·· Our rector began the retreat by guiding us through a fan­tasy where we imagined ourselves literally releasing every­thing we had learned up until this point in our lives. We envisioned these emotions, fMlings, beliefs and memories lying on the ground beside us, and we had the ability to pick up and retuinwhatever we wanted to pick up. 
This ex!)rcisnwas supposed to show that you can oliminato your bad habits and unwanted feelings and improvn your lifo ifyou make an effort. l imagined every unnecessary negative f'eeHng or tendency leaving my body, and I made sum that I did not pick them up again. 
After this we discussed personal experiences, which really brought the group close togNher. To understand someone, it is important to know exactly what has happnned to him in his lifetime. From near death experiences to a loved ones' deaths, we discussed all the baggage that we have each bPen c~ying around for some time. It ·was fantastic to talk to people who really care about your experiences.
At this point we decided it was time to take another break, ,w we were able to either go back and play on the Daytona race track, or talk about something else. 
Some of us decided to talk about other important issues, including strategies for college football for Playst,ition, I. personally, always run out of shotgun, hut other people us1~ oneback sets and I-formation. This was also a learning expe• tience for all ofus. 
After we were able to got that addktion out of our minds, 
we were able to once again refocus our attention on the 
r~treat. We continued our discussion into the early hours of 
the morning, when we decided it was time for sleep. 
Tho following morning we woke up early, at 11 a.m., and started by discussing issues such as sex, drunkennc-ss and the rules as stated in du Lac. All the participants learned the importance of keeping your door shut if you are going to pursue these activities, because the penalties if caught are S(~rious. 
It was nearly time to depart aftor this discussion, but we had time for one last activity -a beach football game. Now, I'm .from California, so you can imagine how odd it is for me to.Se(~ 1u1 empty beach at any time during the yNir. II. wits understandable, how()vor, considering it was nearly zero degrees outside. Needless to say, no one went swimming in the frigid water. W1:; dld get the opportunity lo play our gan1t:, though, tripping over the rocks and logs that wero washed up by the tide. At the end of the game, il was t:inrn to head home-to. Notn, Damt1,
We ardved back at school only 24 hours after wn lmd left., butit seemed as though we had been there a week, My r~tl'eatwas notjust an opportunity to get away from the rig­ors ofNot:re Dame's acadt~mlc life, hut also ~t way to tl'uly put prforities ln order. 
'.fh~tlrst annualSorin Hall Retreat wa.s an experience I enjoyed, (.l,nd a better Jea:rning experience limn anything you 9an find.•~n a textbook. 

,The ,:i(!UJs '!X.pr1ssed in Scene Titrough Our Eyes are those ;q,lt/i.or and not ne):e:isa.rily those ofthci Observer. 
' '. 
....... 

j 



page 12 The Observer• SPORTS Tuesday, February 16, 1999 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m, All classifieds must be prepaid. 
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Customer Seivice Rep for a major  BED 'N BREAKFAST  Room $275/mo in large house 2  WorldNet Comp  
__N_o_T_Ic_E_s_  __.l  ILOST & FOUND I  insurance company in South Bend. Excellent communication skills  REGISTRY 219-291-7153  miles from NO. 246-0704  Got a clunker of a computer? Need an upgrade or repair?  
Spring Break Bahamas Party  Missing... If anyone has found a  needed.Property/Casualty license preferred but willing to train.  5 & 6 BDRM HOMES. 1999/2000,  FOR SALE  We've got all of your computing needs.  
Cruise15Nights $279!1ncludes  Superman Necklace, please return  1ohrs/wk to become FT.  SUMMER OR NOW.NEAR CAM­ Call today for immediate seivice!  
Meals & Free Parties!Awesome  to 317 Fisher. Reward  Call John at (800)624-3698 ext.  PUS.FURN.GILLIS PROPER­ NEW Rates Phone Cards  (219)243-7785  
Beaches,Nightlife!Departs From  248.  TIES.2726551  282 min.$20 call 258-4805  
Florida!Cancun & Jamaica $399!  Looking for a Notre Dame Class  
springbreaktravel.com 1 ·800-678-6386  Ring. Description: Aquamarine stone with name engraved on the  Local Attorney/CPA looking for undergraduate/graduate to work  HOUSE OR ROOMS AVAIL NOW.272-6551  Beautiful brass bed,queen size, with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe  PERSONAL  
Spring Break Panama City $129!Boardwalk Room w/K1tchen Next To Clubs'7 Parties-Free Drinks!Daytona $149!South Beach $129'Cocoa Beach $149'  inside of the ring. lnitials-PML. Call part-time with flexible hou[s. 273-9813 Interested persons should call 273• ___Wi_'A_N_T_E_D__......I f'ro;~~~;;;T  House !or Rent. Two Blocks from campus. Available in June for Summer. August for fall. Dishwasher, Washer/Dryer, full basement, large  frame. New.never used.still in plastic. $235 219-862·2082. laptop pc computer ...ethernet, cd  German Girls Racki Fax it fast at THE COPY SHOP in Lafortune. FAX Sending and Receiving: 631-FAX1  
springbreaktravel.com  CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT  ·  backyard, and off street parking.  rom and floppy drive, pentium  
1-800-678-6386  Workers earn up to  WALK TO SCHOOL  MONITORED SECURITY SYSTEM  processor, modem.  Hey Sarah McNally!!  
$2,000+/month (w/llps & bene•  2·6 BEDROOM  INCLUDED'! KITCHEN BEING  Perfect tor writing papers and web  Happy 19th Birthday!I  
How Green is Green?  fits).World Travel'Land-Tour jobs up  STARTING at $185  REMODELED THIS SPRING! CAIi  access from your room or any­ Love, your Lewis gals  
Work. in Ireland on a Student  to $5,000-$7,000/summer.Ask us  MONTH/PERSON  289-4712  where.  
Work Abroad Program and find out!  how!  2 yrs old. $550.  hey Sheila;  
517·336·4235 Ext.C55842  calll 232·2595  FLORIDA SPRING BREAK  welcome back  
Call 1-888-Council and ask tor  call matt @273-9795.  
Tom.  ADOPT:Help us make our family  SANDPIPER·BEACON BEACH  I need sleep  
complete.  NICE HOMES FOR NEXT  RESORT PANAMA CITY BEACH  guitar effects processor. Boss ME­ 
CANCUN, BAHAMAS  Let us give your newborn a  SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND  FLORIDA FROM $159 PER PER­ 8; heralded as best midpriced  chris, meet me at debartolo lounge  
PANAMA CITY  loving,happy home and a wonderful  8,6,4,3,BEOROOM  SON  effects board. chorus, dist, rev.  at4 p.m.  
Get FREE PARTIES with USA  future.  call 277-3097  3 POOLS 1 INDOOR POOULAZY  wha, harmonizer, and many other  
Spring Break!  Expenses paid.  RIVER RIDE HUGE BEACHSIDE  effects.  who likes to party ... we likes, we  
Call 1-888· 777 ·4642 to book  Please call Lucille and Michael  '99·'00 LOADED!.  HOTTUB SUITES UP TO 10 PEO­ great cond w/ case. $200.  likes to party  
your trip today!  1 ·800-468-9311.  6 Bedrm. $800 mo.  PLE FREE INFO 1-800-488-8828  call matt at 273-9795  
273•0482/234-3831  WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM  'night  

¦ TRACK ANO FIELD. 
St. John's storms past PC 
Associated l'ress 
NEW YOHK 

Lavor Postell scored 17 points to lead No. 10 SL John's to a 104-70 victorv twer Pruvirlenc<' on Monday· night. Lhe Red Storm's second win over the Friars this sPason by at least 27 points. 
Tlw Rerl Storm (21-6. 12-3 Big East) won 84-57 at Providence on Jan. 20. holding Jamel Thomas. the Big East's leading scurnr, to 14 points on 0-for-8 shooting from 3-point range. They pulled away steadily from a 40-29 halftime lead in their first of eight games without leading rebounder Tyrone Grant. who broh his right wrist. 
The lted Storm made sure this one was over evlm earlier than the last blowout. using an 18-0 run to slart a 28-4 burst that gave them a 36-l4 lead with 
7:05 left in the first half. Thev led 51 ·26 at halftime. • 
St. John's did everything right in the run, sharing th!' hall almost to a fault. The mosL impressive of the assists was a dump pass from Heggie Jessie to Albert Hichardson ou a 3-on-2 break that gave the Red Storm a 24· 12 lead with 11:32 left. 
During the run, Providence (14-11, 7-8) made just one of 15 shots and committed eight turnovers. rnduring one score­less stretch of 5:49 and another of 3:33. The Friars finished the half 11-of-37 from the field 
129.7 percent), were outre­bounded 32-18 and committed nine turnovers. 
St. John's biggest lead of the half was 49-26 on a rebound basket by Thornton with 40 sec­onds left. 
Ron Artest had 16 points for St. John's, while Bootsy Thornton added 15, Richardson 14 and Grant. in his second game back from the injury, 12. 
It was thEt third time this sea­son -and the first in the con­ference -that the Red Storm reached 100 points. 
Thomas finished with 21 points, one point off his average, while Justin Farley had 10. 
No.18 

College of Charleston 74, East Tennessee State 55 
Jody Lumpkin had 20 points and 10 rebounds :'vlbnday night as No. 18 College of Charleston breezed past East Tennessee State 7 4-55. 
The Cougars [23·2, 15-0) won their 21st straight game and moved within one victory of a perfect regular season in the Southern Conference. Charleston plays Furman at home Saturday. 
Lumpkin, a sophomore center on a team featuring seven seniors, was dominant inside against the smaller Bucs (16-9, 9-6). He hit 9 of 11 shots in posting his second straight dou­ble-double. 
Jermel President scored 16 points for Charleston while Carl Thomas had 13 and Danny Johnson 12. 
The Cougars' leading scorer, Sedric Webber, had only eight points but grabbed 10 rebounds. 
East Tennessee State was led by Greg Stephens with 20 points. Reggie Todd added 14, but no other Buccaneer scored more than five. 
Charleston held East Tennessee State to 36 percent from the floor, including 4 of 18 from 3-point range. The Bucs managed just 21 points in the second half. 
ETSC, which had won eight of its previous nine games, trailed 39-34 at halftime. The Cougars used a 9-2 run early in the sec­ond half to pull away. 
Oklahoma 69, 
No. 22 Missouri 57 
Eduardo Najera had 20 points and 15 rebounds as Oklahoma knocked ofT l\'o. 22 Missouri, the Big 12's only ranked team, 69­57 Monday night. 
Missouri, which used a 30-0 second-half run to beat Colorado on Saturdav and re­enter the rankings after a one week absence, was on the wrong end of a 22-3 run to end the game against Oklahoma (19­7, 10-3). 

With 5:45 to go, Missouri (18­6, 9-4) led 54-47 after John Woods hit a 3-pointer. The Tigers then went 4:14 before they scored again. Oklahoma scored 14 straight points to start the run, six by Najera. 
Tim Heskett had seven of his 10 points in the closing run and Eric Martin had six of his 13. 

Michael Johnson added 14 points for the Sooners, who have won six straight and three in a row against Missouri. They won for the first time in five games at the Hearnes Center and it also was coach Kelvin Sampson's 100th victory in five seasons at Oklahoma. 
· When Moon was hurt dur­ing the season opener, Johnson came on to throw the winning touchdown pass late in the fourth quarter against Detroit. 
Johnson started his first game M Atlanta the follow­ing week, throwing for 275 yards and two touchdowns against the Falcons to earn NFC Offensive Player of the Week honors. 
Johnson Look over the starting job f'or good in November that season, and earned a $15.5 million con­tract extension a month later. 
However. injuries have defined Johnson's career since then. 
He was among the NFL's top quarterbacks in 1997 until a neck injury cost him the final five games. Johnson was bac.k as the starter when the 1998 season hogan, but he broke a bonein his right.fog at St. Louis in Week 2 and gave way to Cunningham. 
Cunningham went on to an AU-Pro season, leading the Vikings to a 15-1 regular season record and the most points in NFL history before their· upset· loss to Atlanta in the NFC championship game. 
Johnson returned for one game during the season, when Cunningham hurt his knee early against New Orleans on Nov. 8. 
But Johnson broke the thumb on his passing hand that day, and although he played the entire second half with the injury he once a.gainwas out oLa starting job. 
When the Vikings reward­~(:{ Cunningham with a $28 million contract extension in December, it also became clea.r .• that Johnson probably would he moving on. 
He issued a play-me-or­trade me edict the day after the loss to the Falcons, and the Vikings honored his request Monday after talking with several other teams, most prominently the Baltimore Ravens. 

I ----------1 -' 
TL1rsd:1y, Fehruarv 16, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 13 
¦ NFL 
White makes his retirement official 
GHEEN BAY, Wis, This lirn<>. Hoggic Whit0 
put ii in writing. 
Tt11• NFl.'s carPf'I' sacks 1,,ad"r turr111d in his rcliri,­11rnn t lcttl'r to (;rof'n Bav Pat:k('rS g!lll{'J"al manager Hon W()lf' -and gave no indir'.ation ill' intnnds to rc•turn. 
"IIP's nffidully rel.irnd. It's ov11r. I t.hink !m's had it," l'aC'k11rs spoknsman Loo H1•mmP! :mid. 
Tho 37-yoar-old WliilP had said last s'Pason wou Id bo his last. 
But th1•r<' l11cd hH1'n hints !.Im All-Pro playcr might i:hnngc• his mind al"lrr the l'al'km·s hirNI his longlim,i l'rluml. Hav l!hndN,, as new lioad coach. rcplaring !\,like l!DlrngrPn, who lea<l Green Bay to two Supnr Bowl appe11r1111c11s. 
Whitl' wound up making I ft sac ks and IHtrn ing Dofnnsive Player of lh<' Ycar honors in what was to be his farnwell season. and that also rais1\d speculalion he might not be roady to retire. 
Tlwn came reports during tlw woekcnd that a return bv White would cause trou­hie for the Packers in stay­ing within the NF!. salary C!lp. 
White, an ordained minis­ter, said last April that he intundnd to rntire. 
But after repeating to llolmgrcn he wouldn't come back. Whitn said ho had a rnvolation while having back therapy. 
"God spokn lo me and said you mado a promise," White said at the time. ''When I signed the deal lasl year, I signr.d a five-year <loal with the promise that I would play for two years." 
Last month, after the Packers lost to San Francisco in the playoffs, Whito said ho t:xpoctod to retire 1wd focus on his other internsts. 
But wlrnn he was in Hawaii r1trlier this month for his rncord 11th Pro Bowl apµeara.nce, he sct~med lo loavn a slight opening wb"n he told an interviewer he was "intrigued" about Lim id1ia ol'_ rc1t.urning to play under Hhodos. 
"When Hay got. the joh, if anyone: Plsn had gotten tho job I wnuldn't have boon intrigued," White told Fox t.elnvision at lhn t.lme, "f've really bMn praying about it and t\1inkin_g ab,?ut it. Hight now I m ret1 red, 
Wolfhad acknowlP.dgl'd the Packers wore counting on White's $4.4 million salary to provide room under the salary cap to pay defensive tackle Santana Dotson and linebacker George Koonce under the long-term deals they agreed to last Friday. 
The team also has yet to sign All-Pro wide receiver Antonio Freeman, who was designated last week as the Packers· franchise player. 
The Packers this week lost their f'irsl free agent since the signing period began, as guard Adam Timmerman signed a five-year contract with tho St. Louis Hams. 
It's Coming!!! 
The B.C.A.F. Annual Blak Koffee House Is Coming To Notre Dame On 
Friday, February 19th, 1999 at 7:00 p.m. 
In The LaFortune Student Center Ballroom 
Semi-Formal Attire Is Required 
Also, That Night We Will Be Presenting The Thurgood Marshall Scholarship Award To Two Outstanding Freshmen. 
Tickets Are On Sale Now At The LaFortune Student Center Information Desk 
Questions?? Call 634-2914 or 634-3S27 
¦ COLLEGE BASKETBALL 

Bearcats search for answers 
Associ;tted Press 
CIN(:INNATI 
For l.lin first. 15 games, Cincinnati rnmained pnrfort. r.oad1 Bob lluggins remained comparativnly calm and lkarcats fans started ruminat­ing about a Final )-lour appnar­ance. 
In tlrn last 10 davs, it has all 
dmngP(I. , 
Tim oncn-lofty Bcarr.als have lo~t thnir cool, thrir intrnsity and threw consnculivc games against nondescript tn,uns, lr~av­ing t.lwm in an unusual prPdica­nwnt for a I luggins team. 
Tim tl1rne-ga111e losing streak mat.elms Cincinnati's longest during Huggins' IO s1•asons ­he's had only threw other slumps as long -and will end up costing it in at tournament titnl'. 
Cindnnati, rankr:cl No. 3 for 1111wh ol' Orn snason. foll to No. <J in tlrn poll rclnas1~d Monday The Bcarrnts (2.1-41 arn no longnr in first plarn in thnir Conforencn USA division and liguru they've wasted the chance for a top snnd in the NCAA tournamrnt. 
Tnn days ago, it was unimag­inablo. Now it's unexplainable. 
"For some n~ason, wn'w1 lost our focus," point guard Michael Horton said before practice Monday. "I don't know what it is. This needs to stop some­where. We need to get a littlP. confidence back." 
They were full of confidence during the 15-0 start that included wins over Duke -they remain the only team to beat them -as well as Minnesota, Louisville and Rhodn Island when they wern ranked. 
Thny had depth and seemed to make all the right moves. The volatile Huggins was a lot calmer on the sidelines and the Bnarcats pulled out onn close game after another. 


. • . Photo courtesy of Clncinalll Sports lnformallon 
C1ncmnat1 head coach Bob Huggins has watched his team drop three straight and fall to ninth in this week's poll. The ominous signs -close 48-47 with 6:!iJ loft. Lnvntt's wins against overmatched technical for upnnding Troy Dayton and Southern Mississippi Hobnrtson 011 a rnbound atl.nmpt 
-werci ignornd. I\ 62-60 loss at helped tlw Billiknns push tlrnir UNC Charlotte was shrugged off lead to nine points with fowcr to a bad call. than two minutns lnft. 
So was a 61-60 overtime loss Huggins dnf'cnded his own at DePaul, even though outburst on Monday, saying it Cincinnati blew a lead and was didn't hurt tho team. lln also fortunate to get the game to complained that c1mter Kenyon overtime. The officials couldn't Martin is getting fouled but the be blamed for a 62-58 loss at oflicials am letting it go. Marquette four clays latur. "How much am I supposed to 
The crushing loss came sit there and take'?" Huggins Sunday in St. Louis, where tech-said. "Heally. I thought I was nical fouls on Huggins and pretty good (until then). At a Melvin Levett helped the certain point in timn, you've got Billikens pull away to a 69-57 to fight for your tnam. victory -the Bearcats' most "All this stuff about mellowing lopsided loss in 52 games. out and (being) nicer and all 
Huggins' technical foul for that stuff -I don't know. But I jumping in the air and scream-don't think that hurt tlrn team. ing about a non-call allowed Throwing the ball away hurt thn Saint Louis to r.ut the sr.orc to team." 



page 14 The Observer• SPORTS Tuesday, February 16, 1999 
¦ BENGAL BOUTS 
Coaches keep spirit, tradition of Bouts alive 
The Ooserver/Jett Hsu 

By ALLISON KRILLA A~sc,ciare Sports Fdiror 
BPhincl tlw blood. sweat and tPars of mor0 than 100 boxPrs training for next ,wek's 69th annual lkngal Bouts. another story lwgins. 
It is a talP of unmatchPd tra­dition and dPdicalion, where tlH· spirit of athlt>til' compPti­tion mPNs the spirit of gen­Prositv. 
Each yPar as the story grows. so do Lim lflgends attached to the talnnted coaching staff, 
mPn whose lives are perma­nently interwoven in the vPry fabric of Brngal Bouts. 
The work done by coachns Tom Suddes. Terry Johnson, Pat l-arrell and their assistant coaches and managers to pre­pa re the boxers for their moments in the spotlight serves a dual purpose. 
Not only do future lfongal !$outs champions learn physi­cal and mental discipline under the staff's watchful Pyes, but these coaches arc also working to preserve the tradition 


Jack Mooney has guided the lives of Bengal Bouts boxers inside and outside of the ring for 53 years. 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE DANCE WORKSHOP PRESENTS 
CING 
-Jt

ON THE 
BRINK~.i 
New student works & performance improvisation 
Fri. Feb 19 at 8 p.m. • Sat., Feb. 20 at8 p.m. • Sun., Feb. 21 at 2:30 p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium 
. TICKET OR~RS BY PHONE: 219/2844626 
;r;;•·•c,.,,,,0 

Ticket~ on.sale at_the Sa!nt !l"ary's College Box Office~Nf!'k /1n O Laughlin Aud1tor1um. open 9 a.m. · 5 p.m., ,,0 ,. THE AR:~ 
Monday-Friday. 
PEACE CORPS VISITS 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAM 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Center for Social Concerns Tuesday, February 16, 6:00 p.m. 
FIRESIDE CHAT 
LaFortunc, Notre Dame Room i Wednesday, February 17, 1 :00 p.m. ·. 
INFORMATION TABLE 
Hesburgh Library Lobby Tuesday, February 16 9:00 a.m. -3:30 p.m. 
~ 

(800) 424-8580 www.peacecorps.gov 
_.,,,.D...,,.,,., 
they've created. 

Suddes '71 and Johnson '74 both fought in the 8engal Bouts during their undC1rgraduate yPars at. Notre Dame and Johnson continued during his graduate studies beneath the golden dome. 
"Terry and I have been involved in lBengal Bouts] for 30 y<'ars," Suddes said. "I was a senior when he was a fresh­man. And J still love it. Every yPar brings something new, from the officers' personal challenges to the new lalont." 
"Tho coaches bring all thdr years or experience," junior Mike Romanchek explained, "and it's not just straight box­ing style. but maintaining the spirit of Bengal Houts." 
As most pursuits worth achieving, the goals of the coaching staff haven't come easily. 
Suddes. who owns a husi­ness, uses the six-week intense training program as a "mini­sabbatical." traveling from his home in Columbus, Ohio on Monday and often staying in South Bend through the week. Johnson, a Chicago resident, also makes the out-of-state commute a routine to work with the boxers. Farrell, 'the University pilot. a 1966 gradu­ate and a former Bengal Bouts champion, continues to share his wisdom alongside his son Chip, a 1998 graduate. 
But as manager and rnsident poet Jack Zimmerman wrote, it's "the aura of the mirrored room" that trans-cends the fighting itself. 
"I used to think it was more about boxing," Suddes said. "But it's great when the kids realize that boxing is just a small piece of life. These guys are athletes, but very few havfl ever boxed. It's fun to watch how they progress each year." 
~ ---­
I Previous job: Internist I Favorite team: Chicago White Sox
I 

Resume item: Notre Dame Glee Club
I 
I 

I "It was the right medicine for me. 
I ANSWER THE CALL--today!" --Fr. Jim Foster, M.D., C.S.C., '77, '94 
I 

I For more information on
I Holy Cross' one-year
I Candidate Program
I contact:
I I 
Fr. Jim King, C.S.C. or Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C.
I 
1-6385

I vocation.l@nd.edu
I 
I 

.. • ---~ FOLLOW HIM .... ? 
cha:::kout 1HE PLUNGEatwww.nd.oou/~vcxniion 

However. as Suddes explains, $41,000, and it s<Hnned like lhe most important results of that was worth a half million Bengal Bouts don't occur any­dollars over tlrnrP," Suddcs where near the boxing room in said. "All tlrn coaclws makP a the Joyce Center. After winning huge commitment. and they're a trip around the world, not getting paid l'or this," Suddes was fortunate enough Romanchek said. "Tlwy have to visit the Holy Cross missions full-time jobs, but tlrny still give in Bangladesh. It was there a whole lot to the program. tha1 he saw the fruits of the These coaches really nmbody dub's labor: an orphanage, the seif'less1rnss that Bengal medical facilities, a high school Bouts stand for." and a college that the money And as tlrn Bengal Bouts con­raised by the Bengal Bouts has tinue to f'lourish with each contributed to create and passing year, tho legend grows, maintain. as the fighters of tlrn past mPPl 
"Last year we raised the coadrns of the f'uturn. 
-----WHY NOT..II 
Tt1esday, February 16, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 15
------------~---------=--.:..:..::..--=...::..:.c:.~-=-----=...:c....._:::._::_;::._:..:_=------------------------------...!.____..:::.~~ In doubles, all three teams, top 25 team," said 2-0 lead against Duke, on the controversial calls, the most Dasso and llall. Varnum and Louderback. "In the past strength of wins from Zalinski crucial coming when Hall was
Women 
Vlilasco, and Linds<!Y Crenn they've be0n very dnep. and and Varnum. the Irish soon ahead 5-3 and serving for the and Sarah Scaringe, won their I'm sure they'll get those play­found themselves in a 4-2 match in the socond snt. 
continued from page 20 
matches. Green and Scaringe ers back. This was a good hole following the singles The meet was clinched bou need back from a two­match to hav0 before Duke, matches. Th() situation was when Duk,:'s Kathy Sell andtlw Lone for the day, winning 
game deficit to post an 8-6 because we won't have many grim for Notre Dame, but Brooke Siebnl beat Vaughan
tlw 01H'n1ng match 6-1, 6-1 
win and to complete the more easy onos." players did not lose confi­and Zalinski. 8-5.
ovnr Cecilia llincapie. Kelly 
swnep for thn Irish. The tides turnnd a bit for dence. "IDukeJ was a tough matchZalinski rlirn:hecl the win for "Clemson is down a little hit the Irish on Sunday. "Going into the doubles to lose because we playml sothe Irish. by b<\ating Christina right now; they're usually a After jumping out to a quick matches, we were still expect­wf:\11," said head coach Jay
Oldock <,-4. <,-:-J. 
ing to win," said Zalinski, Loudfirback. "All the matches 
Elecdonsl 
All Freshman, sophomores, and Juniors 
interested in running for class office 
OR 
Any students interested In 111Ming for 
offcampus co-President or offcampus senator 
for the I99·I00 school year 
Arc asked to attend an informational meeting on Tuesday, February 16 at 7:30 PM in the student Government office In Lafortune. one member from each ticket should attend. Ifyou arc unable to attend, or have any questions, please contact Nicole Borda, Judicial council vice President at 631-4556. 
owner of an undefeated sin­gles record. "Everyone was pretty pumped, but their dou­bles teams just played really well. Even when we were down 7-4 in our match, we still thought we could win." 
However, after Varnum and Velasco closed the gap to 4-3 with a big 8-3 win, the teams of Dasso and Hall, and Vaughan and Zalinski could not find a wav to beat their tough opponents. 
The most pivotal match or the day was the contest between I! all and 15th-ranked Megan Miller. 
In a romatch of a thrilling fall clash at the Hiviera All­American Championships. Miller defeated Hall in three sets. 4-6. 7-5, 6-4. 
The match was marrod with 
¦ CROSS COUNTRY 
were so close, but I'm sum that we'll bounce back next weekend." 
Next weekend 16 of the top 20 teams in tlrn nation will b11 in Madison, Wis., for the National Team Indoor Tournament. Notre Damn will open against No. I Florida on Thursday. 
"The wenk1ind will be important for our ranking, lrncause there are so many great teams them," said an excited Louderback. 
Following such a close dual meet with Duke, the team feels conf1dent. 
"We feel like if we can play this tight with the No. 2 tnam in the country, we definitnly havn a chance against any team in thn top 10," said Varnum. 
lrish's Watson wins Junior Championship 
Special to the Observer 
Notre Dame freshman Luke Watson (Stillwater. Minn.) won in an all-out sprint to the finish to claim the 1999 USA Junior Winter Cross Country National Championship 
Sunday at the Lake Span way Golf Course • in Tacoma. Wash. 
Watson. an all-Big East selec­tion for the Irish in 


1998, beat Watson 
S C C O 11 cf • 
place runner Steve Slattery or the University of Colorado by just two seconds with a time of 23:26 on the SK course. 
In 39-degree conditions: Watson edged Slattery and two Arizona Statn runners. Isaiah Festa and rasil Benzuneh. in the final :mo meters. 
Pifty-five of the top junior runners in tho country bngan the race. which startnd at 10 
a.m. Sunday morning. 

As a rnsult of his finish, Watson, plus the o~her top live runners, will represent the UnitHd States at the 1999 World Junior Cross Country Championships held this year in Belfast, Northern Ireland, on Mar. 28. 
Watson won the Minnesota state cross country champi­onships as a senior at Stillwater High School. lie also was a two-time high school track All-American in thn 4x800-meter relay and the 2,000-meter stfleplechasn. 
Watson adds to the great tradition and success of Notn\ 
Damn  runnnrs in tlrn  USA  
Junior  National  
Championship.  

The Stillwatnr. Minn. nativn is the third Irish cross country runnPr to win tlrn racn, joining l'ormer All-Amnricans John Coyle ( 1990) and Jason !foxing (1995). 
Watson will also hecomP the fifth Notre Dame student-ath­lntn to run at the World Junior Cross Country Championships. Coyle, Hexing, Antonio Arco and Hyan Shay also rnpr1isent­Pd the Unitnd Statns al tlw world championships. 
Please Recycle the Observer 



To,~ay, Tuesday, February 16, 999 For tin1e and location of meeting, call: 1-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C 
Sr.Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C. 
All Meetings are private and confidential. 
..,. 
-

page 16 The Observer• PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, Ferbuary 1 G, 1999 
+ Campus Ministry This Week + 






_,._ 



OFFICE OF 
CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hesburgh Library: 631-7800 
112 Badin Hall: 
631-5242 Basilica Offices: 631-8463 Web Page: http://www.nd.edu/-ministry 
Monday-Friday, February 15-19, 103 Hesburgh Library 
NDE #56 (March 26-28) Sign-up 
Tuesday, February 16, 7:00-8:30 pm, Badin Hall Chapel 
Campus Bible Study 

Tuesday, February 16, 7:00-8:30 pm, Montgomery Theatre, Lafortune 
Overview of Natural Family Planning 
Co-sponsored with The Natural Family Program of St. Joseph County 
Wednesday, February 17, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Ash Wednesday 

11 :30 a.m. Mass, Music provided by the Basilica Schola 
5:05 p.m..Mass, Music provided by the Liturgical Choir 
Wednesday, February 17, 10:00-10:30 pm, Walsh Chapel 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Music led by the Celebration Choir, rehearsals before the Prayer Service at 8:30 pm. 
Friday-Saturday, February 19-20, St. Joe Hall 
Sophomore Class Retreat 

Saturday, February 20, 5:30 pm, Joyce Center 
Junior Parent's Weekend Mass 
Saturday, February 27, 9:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. 
Retreat for Ministers at the Basilica Topic: "Ministry in the Church" Registration in the Basilica Office, Earth Science Building 
Attention lectors, ushers, coordinators, eucharistic ministers, servers and choir members: You are all invited to participate in this mini-retreat. Our principal speaker will be Beverly Rieger, Director of Liturgy, Fort Wayne-South Bend Diocese. An optional tour of the Basilica will be led by Father Rocca following the retreat. If you plan on attending, please contact Steve Camilleri at 287-5259 or Camilleri.4@nd.edu. 
Uni,1ersity Village Volunteers 
Campus Ministry is looking for two students who are interested in doing some volunteer work at University Village, the Married Student Housing Complex on campus. Students are needed to volunteer in a "Parents' Time-Out" program that meets in the community center on Mondays from 9:00 a.m.-11:30 a.m. when the University is in session. This ministry would entail working with two n1other's to plan activities for children ages 1-4 and to assist in general child supervision. Please call John or Sylvia Dillon at 631-5242 if interested. 
..
_ 
Tuesday, February l6, l 999 The Observer• SPORTS page 17 
¦ MEN'S SWIMMING .. 
Irish top Wisconsin-Milwaukee in dual meet 
Hy WES RICHARDSON 
Spnn, Wnt,·r 
Tlw Irish 11JP11's swimming IP/1!11 rnat'lwd tlw :iOO mark in dual-111pcd rompclition hy sm11Hlly dPl'l'ating Ihn Univnrsily or \Visrnnsin-Milwauknr Friday nigl!l. 
Thi• 14:i !i-1) I. !i virtorv. which 1•1Hll'd N11tr11 Danw 's s,;1tson at 4-4 au<I i111p1·11vl'd its all-1.inw n•c·11rd against Wisro11sin­\lilwauk"" l.11 1l-O, was high­lighlc>d by Irish wins in iiight of 111111• individual Pvc•nl.s ancl onn n•lav. 
N;itr .-Dame• took till' first Ihi'!\!' plarPs i11 tlw I,000-yard l'rPl'stvlP, :wo-varcl individual nwdl,;v, and ;loo-vanl ha,·k­~trnk,i Hoh FdtPi·. the only dnulih•-wi11111•r for lhn Irish, Ind 11w diargt• hy rnpluring ltw lOO individual nwdlP)' and 100 
l'n•rslylc•. 
ll'lsh m,11'11 Tim Wtdsh was P111·11urag1•d by his team's dis­play of dPplh. s,~v1•n diff1•rm1t swimnwrs 1·011trihuuid to the 1•ighl individual wins. Wdsh 1•111ph11sizf'd IIH' imporlallC(l or having stand-out swimtn(irs f'r11rn till' top to hottom. 
"II' !his \V('l'P a ball sport. you 
would have• an nl'fonsiv<1 game 
plan." lw c1xplainc1d. "To 11111 this 
is how many l'Vnnls you can 
win. Our dl'fonsiv<' ganw plan is 
flow many snc:ond, third H!ld 
02.15 02.16 02.17 02.18 02.19 
02.18 02.19 02.20 
fourth placr.s can you get." 
Both plans worked for Urn Irish. In addition lo eight racr. victories, nnough adclilional points wnrr. scornd lo make up for Notro Dame's lack of a par­lici pant in the diving ovent. Wisconsin-!vfilwauk<>e placnd thrnc\ cliHirs each in lwo events, aulomntir.ally collecting a :12­poinl aclvnntag<'. 
Tho team nntm·ed Urn mcnl cxpm:t.ing a rompnl.itiw1 battln, but ronficlt)llt thny would nnwrgH victorious. Many swirn­11111rs, tlrnrclf'on•, swam Pvrmts in which they dll not normally comp<lln. Tim rosults of tho li1111­up chn11gP wt>n11•11cnurnging. 
S1•nior Scn!L l.umbach, who s1wcializes in inrlividual nrndlny and lrntt.orl'I y, won th n 200 l'nwstyle. Backstrok1~r Chris h1gatn touchn<l 011! Wisconsin­
Milwauken's J\ndrew Babcock lo win thn 200 1Jultorf1y. 
Tlw nwnt w11s good pn1para­ti n 11 for the Big East Championships, which take place Feb. 25-27 in Uniondall~. NY 
"What wn want il [lhii UW­Milwa11kPn mHnL! to say is that wn'rn on schedule, and our preparation is right on course, and wn're anticipating going Caster than ever at Big East. That's tlrn goal," Welsh said. 
If Friday's mnet is a good pre­dictor of future performance, 

-
Urn goal appears lo be within freestyle. Ilis 9::12.71 was near­reach. John Pinrce swam the ly 30 seconds faster than leam­team's second faslest time of mate Dan Szilier, who placed the season in the 1,000 second. 
"Wn'rn gotting raster right at the time of year when we want Lo," Welsh said. "We're on coursn to have a grnat champi­onship meet at Big East IChampionshipsI." 
The tc~am plac:11d foul'th at championships last ynar and hopns to brat either Miami or Syracuse Lo brnak into the high­ly compPlitivn top lhnw. 

SLF 8:00PM Washington Hall -Leonard Micheals 
-Jim Carroll  8:00PM  Washington Hall  
-Raymond Feist  8:00PM 8:00PM  Washington Hall Washington Hall  

-Student Readers 6:30PM Washington Hall 
-Annie Finch A Bug's Life 10:30PM Cushing Aud. $2 (movie) 8:00PM/10:30PM 
8:00PM/10 :30PM 
page 18 
Men 
continued from page 20 
Duk(' continurd to dominatP singfos as well, rPndrring tlw doubles a non-factor with a (J-0 singles shutout, the first the Irish have surrendered this sea­son. Only two matches required· n dPdcling third set and, not surprisingly, they occurred at No. 1 and 2. 
Third-ranked Sachire, who had split four matches with the 49th-rankPcl Hoot, reboundPd f'rnm a lirst sd. (1-3 loss to knot tlw matrh al 1-1 after downing Hool 6-2 in tlw second set. Boni. htJ\\·rver. captured the third set 6-2 LO hold on and win thr match. 
"TlrnsP players were two of six Anwric11ns to be chosen for the USTA all-star team. so you exprict the match to be comp.eti­tivr," rxplainrd Bayliss. 
Likewise. No. 2 singles fea­
-
The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, February 16, 1999 

· The Observer/Jeff Hsu 
Senior co-captain Andy Warford was defeated by Duke's Andres Pedroso in straight sets, 6-0, 6-1. The Irish have now lost three straight matches. 

EBATTLE ROYA 


The Second Annual Ethics Week Battle Royale Debate The Ethical Implications of the Nike 
~ Sweatshop Operations ~ 
TAG--TEAM SWEAT: 
Professor Paul Schultz Professor Paula Tkac 
vs. 

TAG,TEAM ANTl,pERSplRANT 
Professor Matt Bloom Professor Oliver Williams, CSC 
REFEREEd by: 
Professor Lee Tavis 

Tuesday, February 16, 1999 6:30 -7:30 PM Jordan Auditorium 


Everyone is invited Lo the Tag-Team Debate of the year! Have you ever wanted Lo drill your professors' Do you want to watch other professors grill each other' Would you like the opportunity to grill your professors 
without it affecting your grade? 

The fonnat consists of a fiye minute presentation by each professor. and then the floor is open between the professors and the audience for the next 30 minutes. Come see who will be the last team standing. Refreshments and snacks will follow the conclusion of the event. 
Brought to you by 

· . . ,.,, Sludents for Responsible Business Notre O~Me Cen'ier for Eth1cs and Rel1g1ous Values 1n Business & ~E. tlew L...1ct1r, 1o, :Jetter flu,mttn 
lN> 

tured an impressive showdown as Brian Patterson faced Pedro Escudero. a transfer from No. 2 
LSU. 
Onspite Patterson's remark­able hustle, Escudero took the match. 7-5. 2-6. 7-5 in another riosr battle. 
"Brian was all over the court, which maybe made him give up a little fire power," obscrw~d Bayliss. "Overall he played a grrat match." 
At No. 3-6, [)uke earned straight-set victories from Muzyka (6-0, 6-3 over Daly), Andres Pedroso (6-0, 6-1 over l\ndv Warford), Jones (6-3. 6-2 ovrn: Smith) and Marko Cerenko ( 7-(1, 6-1 over Mark Overrlevest). 
Andrew Laflin, who has been sidelined for the last two matches due to illness, has received clearance from the doctors and will join the Irish wlwn they take on 31th-ranked Northwestern at the Eck Tennis Pavilion Saturday. 
Brian Patterson and the Notre Dame men's tennis team return to action on Saturday, Feb. 20, when they face Northwestern at the Eck Tennis Pavilion 
¦ FENCING 
Notre Dame freshmen place at Jr. Olympics 
· By MIKE CONNOLLY Sport~ Writer 
While most of the Notre Dame fencing team was enjoy­ing an off weekend to recharge before the stretch run into the Midwest Championships, fresh­men epeeist Brian Casas and 
sabre man A n d r e Crompton placed sec­ond and t h i r d , respective­ly, at the Junior 


Olympics in Casas Chattanooga, Tenn. 
The Junior Olympics bring together the top fencers from around the country each year for four days of competition. 
Neither fencer's success at the Junior Olympics should come as a surprise. 
Both fencers are competing 
Ple··r 

.,. 
the 


at all-American levels and have stepped up to become important pieces of a possible national championship puzzle. 
Casas' season record stands at 32-10. He has solidified his role as a solid complement to all-American Carl Jackson on the menOs epee squad. 
Crompton's year has also been productive. His outstand­ing 40-3 record has been one of the keys to the men's sabre team's complete dominance of top competition like Stanford and Penn State. 
He, along with fellow fresh­man Gabor Szelle and 1998 NCAA sabre champion Luke LaValle, have helped the Irish sabre team become the best in the country. 
The success of athletes such as Crompton and Casas is expected to help maintain the strength of the Irish fencing program, even after the gradu­ation of all-Americans LaValle and Jackson. 


vs.

.... .... 
VARSITY SHOP 
VARSITY SHOP 
.., syraa..... .., 
wa:t~esday, Febl."1.1a1.-y 17th at 7:00 pm 
---------------------.....-----­
. 

Tuesday, February 16, 1999 The Observer. TODAY page 19 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF ND DAN SUL UVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

FOXTROT 
BILL AMEND 


CEtEBRlTIES BORN ON nus about them. Uon·t let otnera p111 D~Y: Vanessa Rt>dgrave, Tammy demands on you or curtail ynur Grime,, Jeanne Pruett, Louis fre.idom. 000 Ruke~. (',<>t)l! Hackmi111. Bl\'tt 'But­VIRGO (Aug. 23-Stpl 221: Make ler your plans u,,,fully You are pnm~ to Happy Birthdav: You have what ii grl_ confused about ~ppointmcnts takes to gt"t ahi·ad.' Now all you h.il'e 'tour 1mp.ttience will bf' ni,1,a•al>lt, to Jll i3 focus on your goals anJ and vou mu~l make evrry effort to implement your ideas. Don't be control your kmp,er. 0000 ,1frnld to shat<' ymu ideas ,md inten­LIBRA (S<epl 23-0ct. 22): Yvu can tions with ind i.vidual~ who can trelp make major financial gains b)' uAing you along the wuy. You are a powt'I'· vour intuitive senses, Talk to vour house this yrar, ~, don't be afraid to pt'TSOnAI fm4ndal adviser or a good ~J)t'ak up. The stroait<,"llr a pc.,Bihon you frit'nd who doeh well with inv~r­takl', th,, bt'!ter the outrom~ will be. mPn~ befun' parting with caAh. 00 Your nwnbers: 1, 16, 24, 39, 4l, ,i9 SCORPJO (Od 2J-:'1o\', 21>: Pn:h­ARIES (M.i.n:h 21-April 19): You km, with your ~mot1tmal partnt'r may ca1tt,e grid at home if you don't wi\1 h,)!d you back. Pu1 your personal crmlrol your erratic t,,:,havior. Temper dilemma~ nn the back burner and tantrums will be dil<"dN toward in• con,-enlrate on getting o1.lwad p1ufes­laws. Try to keep bu~y. Don't get 5ionall v. 8e finn in vour dec1&1on~.00000 Iworked up about your IXlll'-'ffllli 00 TAURUS \April 20-M~ 20): Fam• SAGITTARIUS INov. 22-De(, 21); ily membef!I may not be too l'OO'ptive You can get others to d1, things for today Don't pu.~ your luck, jtJst ~tay you It you use your diplomatic out of Ihe way. This is not the best chann. Your colorful st(ll')'telling abil­day to ronfi~' in any(lfl('. Try to sort ity will enable you to gt-I children to thingsoutyoundl. 0000 liit..'11 and do what yoo want. 000 CEMINl <May :u-Ju.ne 20h Yoo're CAPRICORN IOtc. 22-Jin. 19): in a spt•nding mood, so be surl! to Infatuation~ an-likely You musl use ka~ your at'dit cards at home and discrimination in your per~•Jnal take only the cash you. C4!1 .uford to dealing~ and refrain from falling all r,art with. You can make new Crifflds over someoJll!' who vou think ft~•Lq w, 1( )'OU tty new (om\!l of liOCial activity. :wmf way you do. 6oo 000 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 181: CANCER (Jwit 21•July 221: You Romantic encountl!n may very \\'ell need tlme to vounelf. Re-evaluate develop through work rel.-ittonship,. your situation and try lo come up Take care of your heilth. Minor ail• with ways to niake thing~ bt'tter. m.-nts ar11 likely 3nd will cause set­You might want to talk to someone baoo in your t-aM:r obJ..'Ctives 000 you trust 4l,011t yo1tr personal PISCES (Feb, 19-March 20): You relationship, 000 will find group functions tiring. Don't LEO (July 23•Aug, 22): You. can take on too much or make promist-s e)(ped 11'1 ha\'t" probleiTI! with authori­that ,lll! urut'alislic Otgani7t younelf ty b.gu:res. Sock tu your original pl.i.ns; well in ori:kr to mak._. the most of ht'iWt'\'H, be 1omewha1 ,ecretivl! your day. 00000  
¦ OF INTEREST Jobs You Can Be Proud Of -The Public Interest Research Group is interviewing qualified seniors for exciting and challenging jobs in the non-profit. social change field. Information session Wednesday at 8 p.m. in the CSC. Interviews Thursday. Kellogg Institute Lecture _:_ Patricia Weiss-Fagen from Inter-American Development Bank will be giving a lecture entitled "The Role of' the [nternational Community in Post-Conflict Reconstruction and Reconciliation" this afternoon at 12:30 p.rn, in C-103 oflhe Hesburgh Center for fnt1:1rnational Studfr~s. Mac Users -Come to the first mMting of the year for madmacs ­the ND Mac User group. The meeting is at 7 p.m. tonight in 104 CCMB. Loan Deferments and Americorps Awards for Post­Grad Service -Representatives from tho Financial Aid Office and from the Holy Cross Associates will pre­sent an information session today at 4:30 p.rn. at the CSC on the process of deferring student loans for post­graduate service programs, Also to be discussed is the Americorps Educational Award of $4,725 toward stu­dent loans or further education.  
Wanted: Reporters and photographers. Join The Observer staff.  

DILBERT 
-------------,
CATGE~T: H.R. DIRECTOR 
I VALUE THE INPUT OF ALL E.MPLO'l'EES ... 

CROSSWORD ACROSS 28 ---Na Na 
8E r-:::===::::========:::-7 
... INCLUDING -nit
0. 
® 

MORONS. ALTHOUGH 
e 

I 
IN l'l-\05E. CASE.5, I COVER M.'< EARS A.ND 
..,. 

SING LOUDLY. 
scon· ADAMS 
SO l 
WA.S 
'1 
THINKING 
t\E'5 A 
MA.YBE. .. 
~lN~fi..lL 
llWIZARD 
..) 

L_.___.......,:~_ 
54 The Urals are 
west of it 55 Dinner bird 56 Witty Bambeck 57 Put salt on, 
maybe 58 Bridge positions 59 Time of decision 
DOWN 
1 Handy computers 2 "There oughta 
be-!" 3 Southwest sight 4 Glad-handing 
type 5 Father of Xerxes a Dark shades 7 Thieves' group &Numbskull 9 Leaves the dock 
10Zing 

11 Saran, e.g. ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 12 Preyer 13 London or New York district 18 Be about to 
happen 19 Feedbag feed 23 Jumping the 
gun 24 Romantic adventure 25 More cold and 
wet 26 Agreeing (with) 27 Manna sights 28 Veep Agnew 29 --Barbera 
(big name in cartoons) 

t:;::::::::::::::~~-:::~ :: 
}'"
__,;i:;,,._____..J-;;....._..L._--'____,....______. 

Puzzle by Lyell Rodieck 
30 Feeling of apprehension 32Coil 33 Took the heat badly 35 Search like wolves 3&Aloof 41 Island near Java 42 Rugged ridges 
43 Actor Tom of "The Dukes of Hazzard" 44 Extract by force 
45 Symbol of noncommunica­
tion 46 Trick 47 Oscar winner 
Jannings 48 Light: Prefix 49 Byron or 
Tennyson 
so Tibetan monk 
s1 Corset part 
53 -fault (overly so) 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95i per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last SO years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
... 

1 Auntie, 
dramatically 5 "La Classe de danse" artist 
1oBirds in barns 14 Qu1zmaster Trebek 15Humble 1a Cookie since 1912 
17 Asset for 
34-Across? 20 Bee activity 21 Classical lyric 
poet 22 Creative work 23 Book after 
Nehemiah: Abbr. 24 Sites of crosses 27 Meadow sounds 
31 No longer on the plate 32 Doughnut 
shapes 33 Extent 34 Circus act 37 Place for a 
revival 38 Kind of desk 39 Flowerless 
plants 40 Before, in poetry 41 Rules out 42 Not yet sunk 43 Common hello 
or goodbye 44 Habeas corpus. 
for one 45 Spicy cuisine 48 Takes advance 
orders tor 52 Liability for 34-Across? 





¦ Irish swim te~m ¦ Bengal Bouts coach­improves to .500 in es keep the spirit of the dual meets with week­fights alive and contin­end victory over ue to influence the Wisconsin-Milwaukee. lives of the boxers. 
PORTS 
p.17 p.14 
THE 

page 20 --------------~ 0 BSERVER Tuesday, February 16, 1999 


¦ TRACK AND FIELD 
ND claims four first-place finishes 
By KEVIN THOMPSON Sports Writer 
In an important test before the Big East Indoor Championships, Notre Dame's men's and women's track and field teams captured four of nine first-place finishes at L h e Wolverine 
Thompson Open in Ann Arbor. Mich. on Saturday. 
The Irish sent onlv a limited squad to Ann Arbor; but in the condensed field, they found several gems. The biggest sur­prise of the afternoon came from sophomore Bethany Wilson. Wilson sd a school and personal record with a mark of 10-foet-6 inches in the pole vault. Wilson broke. the record of curnmt teammate Natalie Hallett. who vaulted 10 feet-1/2 inch two weeks ago 
¦ WOMEN'S TENNIS 
No. 2 Blue Devils hand Irish first loss 
at the Meyo track against lndiaua. Wilson, however, placed second to Central Michigan's Dawn Burrow, who vaulted 11 feet. 
"I was confidrnt going into the weekend," Wilson said. "When l hit the record. of coursP I was excited. Next weekend r·m hoping to push the 11-foot mark." 
On the men's sidP, the Trish came away with wins in thfl shot put, high jump, 3,000­meter run and pole vault. .Junior Matt Thompson won the shot put with a throw of 51-feet-11-inchcs. 
Right on his heels was fresh­man Derek Dyer, who capped a season-best day with a throw of 51-fcet-<J 1/4 inches. 
Senior Tim Englehardt ran 
to his first victory of the sea­
son with an 8:38.61 time in 
the 3,000 meters. 
Rounding out the first place finishes for the Irish were Andrew Cooper in the high jump (6-feet-6-inches) and Mike Brown in the pole vault 
( 16-foet-6-inches}. 
Brown still looks to officially qualify for the NCAA Championships coming up in March. He has already provi­sionally qualifier! with marks above 17-feet-2 inches. Brown believes he will need to add another four inches in order to assure himself a spot in the NCAA field. 
Brown's first opportunity to leap into the NCAAs will come this weekend at the Big East Championships. Brown is con­fident that he will perform well. . 
'Tm familiar with the com­petition and it is good," Brown said. "The pressure will be high but I think that will force us to perform. Under the pres­sure, we will be at our best. Overall, it should be an excit­ing week for all of us." 
The Big East Championships will take place this Saturday and Sunday in Syracuse, N.Y. In 1998, the women placed ninth overall while the men captured second place. 

Notre Dame defeats Ohio State, Clemson 
By WES JACOBS Sports Wmer 
The No. 16 :-.Jotre Dame 
women's trnnis came up just 
short of a sweep in three 
home dual meets at the Eck 
Tennis Pavilion this weekend. 
The squad rolled lo a solid 8-1 win over No. 59 Ohio StatP and handed the Clemson Tigers a 9-0 drub­bing Friday and Saturday, resµectivn ly, before falling to second-rankrd Dukr, Sundav. 
The 6-3 dcfoat at the han.ds 
of the Blue Devils dropped 
the Irish to 5-1 on the year. 
Tlw Irish wasted no time in 
staking a 3-0 lead over the 
Buckeyes Friday, with 
straight-sPt wins from senior 
Jen Hall, junior Kelly Zalinski 
and sophomore Michelle 
Dasso. 
Becky Varnum erased a 3­
1. del'idt in the third set of her match to defeat Monica !Uncon. 
After \1arisa Vrlasro lost in straight sets to OSU's Michelle Matko, Nina Vaughan finished off singles with an exciting three-set win over Laura Maloney. 
The Irish swept th(! doubles matches, including Oasso and Hall's 8-4 win over the No. 7 
in hPre ready to play," said
team in the country, Kristy 
Louderback. "They're not theDascoli and Briana Harris. 
most talented team, but they"Wr knew that they'd come always play very hard." 
The Irish had an evtm easi­just one set. er time with Clemson­All-American Jen Hall set Saturday. On their way to a 9-0 victory, Notre Dame lost see WOMEN/ page 15 
¦ MErls TENNIS 
No. 24 Irish fall to 3-3 after loss to Duke 
By NATHANIEL DeNICOLA Sports Writer 
The 24th-ranked Notrn Dame m(\n·s tennis team fPII to 10th-ranknd Duke, as tlw Blue Devils pounded the Irish at the Eck Tennis Pavilion Saturday. 
The victory marked thP first time Duke had cldeated Notrn Dame in tlirn1\ years, d1\spitP Duke's higher ranking in each of the m atc-lrns. The I TA ·s national polls, however. proved correct this timn as tlrn Irish lost tlwir third straight. evening tlrnir 3-0 start to a humbling :{-3. The Blue lkvils remained undef'eatnd at 2-0. 
"You havn to give Dukn credit," said !mad coach Bob Bayliss, "Tlwy arP a very good team who were in charge from the get-go... 
Pedro Escudero and Doug Hoot sparked Duke with an early victory over Hyan Sarhire and Brian Patterson at No. 1 doubles (8-5), fol­lowed by Porter Jones and Ted Hueger's point-clinching 8-5 win over Matt Daly and Casfly Smith at No. 3 doubles. 
The duo of Matt Horsely and Trent Miller salvaged one match for th11 Irish, as they triumphed over Drnitrv Muzyka and Jordan Wilrs 8-4­at No. 2 doubles. 
"We had chances to win al both number one and thrno doubles, but we just missr.d our opportunities," said Bayliss. 
see MEN/page 18 

vs. Syracuse Women's Tennis Wednesday, 7 p. m. at National Team Indoor Tournament
SPORTS 

Thursday-Sunday at Michigan Stare Friday, 7 p.m.

ATA 

at Syracuse Men's Tennis Wednesday, 7:30 p.m. vs. Northwestern Saturday, I p.m. 
GLANCE 


