

¦ The men's tennis team won its first meet 
¦ The Notre Dame physics department reported the 
Monday
of the season. Look inside for details. 

possible discovery of a new planet. 
JANUARY 25, 

Sports• 18 

News• 3 
1999 

THE 

VOL XXXII NO. 74 

Students rally, march in D.C. 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY Assnd.ire Nc-ws Echror 
Approximately 210 students from Notre Danw and Saint Mary's trav11IP<l to W,Lshinglon. D.C .. lo parlic­ip1tt11 in a national Hight-to­Lil'P march and rally that marknd tlw 2(,th annivnrsary of the SuprPllln Court's Hon v. Walin d!'cision Jpgalizing abor­
tion. 
For onn studnnL, aLtencling tlw mard1 was tlw start of mnr.-(\XlPnsivl' involvement in thn pro-lifo movement. 
"llning pro-lifn my wholo life, I always want.ml to got involv1•d. I wantncl to dn snnrn­t hi II g to show pnopln how much it 11rnans to me," said Jpn McEnl1rn, a Notre Dame s11phomCJrn. "I think 01111 per­son can d11 somnthing. This march marks the beginning or my official pro-lifo involvc­nrnnt." 
Tlw N-D/SMC: Hight to Life Club organiznd tlrn trip from South BP11<I, which included a total or five husloads of' stu­d,•nts. Tlw first bus left WPdrwsday nvnning, allowing the stud1rnts to participate in Thursday's Mass at the National Shrine of tlw Immaculate Conception at Catholic Univf'rsity of i\nrnrica. Tlw n\maining four busns lnft St!•1m11 C1•nter Thursday night and arriv!•d in D.C. Friday morning for tlw rally. 


About 210 students from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's marched from the Ellipse to the Supreme Court in Washington, D.C., Friday as part of the annual March for Life. This year's gathering marked the 26th year of legalized abortion in the United States. 
Students who participated in perhaps for those thinking thn event went for a variety of about having an abortion to masons, but most agreed it examine those actions," said was a powerful experinnce. Jim Wrzosek, a Notre Dame 
"I decided to go on this trip sophomore. "lt was an excel­bncause I thought it would be lont demonstration. I felt we an (1xcnllent way by going to wern doing a good thing for the nation's capital to raise thn nation." awareness about abortion, and 
see MARCH / page 4 
WWW. N D.EDU/~OBSERVER 

Mission work 

inspires volunteers 
ByNOREEN GILLESPIE 'How often would I b\ly a N~11,'s \\Vriter stranger a snack?' ThAse pAO· ple have nothing, but they arc 
When Karen Furrows always giving." ro1neri1bers hor work in Africa, 11 is thoso imagos that. put she will recall a series of' pow• things into perspective for each erful, lasting yot emotionally woman, motivating her to Jarri11g images. embrac1) a vocation that is 
Images like caring for an often strenuous and difficult. HIV-positive Both lloduk infant who was .......---------------, and Furrows 
~!~~!/r:t~f~ ;:l" ~ fft~~~~f; ;~~ 
her face eaten \ -M-...:J~. F t sionary workby lnseds. ~ Ouuay ea ure based on the But it is those experiences images that they hav1~ fueLFurrows' passion for her cncountorcd so far. work. For Furrows, an affinity for "This work helps mo realize missionary work seems herndi­what I have," she said. "I real-tary. Her fathor. a pastor and a ize that f_ go to school every professor at the East African day, and I may get stressed out School of Theology, had about my chemistry class, but · brought Furrows on missions there a.re bigger problems than ever since she was a child. · that. It helps me put my llfo in , Through stints in medical clin­perspective." ics in Chile, Guatemala, and Molly Hodak can relate to the Africa, Furrows decided to pot~ncy of Furrows' experi• incorporate medicine into ence. Having spent tho summer whatever type of missionary in El Salvador. Hodak is work she chooses to pursue. · equipped with memories of her "During my summer in own that left a lasting mark. fruatemala. I spent the summer "One time, I was walking working with an American doc­with two girls who were buying tor," she said. "We usually bananas and nuts," she recalls. went to small villages and "They bought some for me. It announced clinics. In some was at least a couple of dollars places, we saw over 600 peo­for them. I thought to myse.lf, 
see MISSIONS I pagt' 4 

Play of the Mind attendees explore global citizenship 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY A<>nci.m· News Editor 
As this y(•ar's Play oft.he Mind confor­PllCP at Saint Mary's camr. to an r.nd Sunday, conf'PrnncP r.o-chair Patrick Whit.I' was plPasNl with the outcome. 
!'lay or thn Mind is a rnnl'r.rnnce that i1H·ludcs Jp1• tu res, discussions and pro­s1•11tations on issues hasml on tho thmnn of thn rnnforr.ncn. Thn goal of the confor­PIH'.I' is to semi parliripants hack to their r..s,wctivn C'.01lng1is with idnas as to how thPy can lwlp women both on thP.ir r.am­pus and outside its confines. 
"This y1•ar's confor1,nct1 was not the host hncausP it was tlw big~1\st, it was lwrausr! of llw discussion," said White, also dirnctor of tlw CPntPr for Academic h111ovaf.ion at. Saint Mary's and assodatn dt>an nl' fa1:ulty. 
Whi111 was 'iitnasml with tlrn clfoctive­rwss of' this year's theme, "Global Cil.izt•llship and thn lntdloctual Liftl." 
"Thr th('me worked vnry well for gon­l'tating prnhlHms and qunstions ancl it workPd well for making participants think out.sidn Urn rnalm of thnir campus­11s, l'riopln Wflrn irning 1mcouragcd to think globally but to act locally," Whitn said. 
Beci1usn thfl thcnrn was morn spncitic, sonw schools attending Play of the Mind carno woll-prnparcd, improving the qual­ity of discussion, according to White. 
"Some schools were thinking and read­ing about the topic beforn they even arrived at the conference," he said. 
Cindy Traub, a Saint Mary's sopho­more and two-time Play of the Mind par­ticipant, found much value in thn dis­course that tnok place during the confor­cnct\ which began Thursday. 
"I thought it was a good thr.me and by discussing the qualities of what a global citizen is, it sets up a model for us," she said. "The exchange of ideas is great too. You are able to say to pnople. 'This is a problem at my school.' ancl p11ople from otlwr schools arc able to give you sug­gestions on bow they dealt with that problnm at their school." 
Conforence organizers also found that tho thnrno generated complicated discus­sion. 
"The issue of citizenship is a complex discussion," sai.d Whit!'. "W1i were able to look at what our rights and responsi­bilities are as citizens of the world and on our campusos." 
Amy Block, a studenl ai St. Joseph's College in Hnnssclaer. Ind.. a co-ed col­lege, found the discussions thought-pro­voking. 
"The presPntations and <liscussions showed how you can take S(lmcthing so univP-rsal, like citizenship, and apply it to daily life to help those a.round you," said Block. 
Another student from St. Joseph'.s 

College, Andrea Batista, agreed. 
"I thought it was in interesting topic," said Batista. "It was pretty complicated subject matter bt'lt you were able to get ideas out of discussion of things you can do on a local level to help out globally." 
White pointed to a comment made by a student at Play of the Mind that summed up the discussions that took place. 
"This student 9aid, 'We'ro not citizens of the world, we're citizens of the world in training,"' said White. 
Inviting women from co-educational colleges to participate at the traditionally all women's colleges conference enhanced Play of the Mind, according to White and Georgeanna Rosenbush, co­chair of' the conference and director of Studont Activities at Saint Mary's. 
"Having new schools that hadn't par­ticipated before brought more energy to Play of the Mind," sai.d Hosenhush. 
White saw the addition of co-cd col­leges as a shift in a new direction for the conference. 
"Although we weren't celebrating women's colleges as much, we wern cel­ebrating dilTerences more than anything and that is something we hadn't planned on," said White. "The representatives from co-cd colleges were very glad to be in this environment and realized there is something special about women's col­leges." 
see MINDS I page 4 

----------.. ---------­

I I 
I ' 
I 
page 2 
¦ INSIDE COLUMN 

On Abortion 
ln this life, you have to be careful who you agree with. This weekend. almost 210 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students went to the 
"March for Life" in Washington, D.C. 
And two weeks ago, in Portlan<l, Ore .. the owner of a pro-life Web site went on trial. 
Yem mav have read about the.site, called "The Nuremburg 


Files," in a deliberate  Laura Petelle  
reference to Lhe World  .¼sisrant News Editor  
War II war crime trial.  

The Web site lists more than 200 doctors who perform abortions, frequently or infre­quently. and hundreds of other "abortion­ists" (clinic workers, police officers assigned to protect clinics, judges who uphold abor­tion laws. and the families of all these peo­ple) who are somehow affiliated with thorn. People whose names appear on the list are harassed and assaulted. The list has a key at the top: "Active" abortionists have their names in black. "Wounded" abortionists hav-0 their names in gray. An abortionist who has been killed has his or her name struck out with a black line. 
Dr. Barnell Slepian of Amherst, N.Y., who was killed by a sniper last year. was on the list. Dr. Slepian was not an abortion-clinic doctor_ He was an obstetrician. 
Doctors whose names appear on the list hide, quit practicing, wear bullet-proor vests. They fear for their lives and their families. 
In a perfect world, there would be no abortion. Sex would only occur in meaning­ful adult relationships and all babies would be wanted. 
But it's not a perfect world. Four in ten teen pregnancies end in abortion -289,000 in 1994. These women are yom1g, scared, helpless. They are one half of a couple that made a mistake -a whopper of a mistake, but a mistake nonetheless. Nobody specifi­cally gets pregnant just to have an abortion. 
Banning abortions is a bit like living on a river where dead bodies keep floating down from upstream. We moan and cry and bury the bodies decently. We deal with the situa­tion at hand, and curse whatever it is that causes the bodies to die. But eventually, someone will have to go upstream and see where the bodies are coming from. 
And that's what we have to do -go upstream and find out why so many preg­nancies are accidental and unwanted, par­ticularly in an era of cheap, available birth control. When we find out, we have to deal with those issues. 
Protesting will not stop abortion. Praying Rosaries will not stop abortion. Even legisla­tion will not stop abortion -in the days before it was legal, women sought out shady "doctors" or tried to do it themselves, with such implements as rusty coat hangars. 
Killing doctors will certainly not stop abor­tion. Besides which. Catholics believe that · ALL life is sacred from the moment of con­ception. babies and abortion providers alike. 
The only thing that will end abortion is a serious addressing of the issues behind it. 
In the meantime, protest if you must, but be careful to whom you lend your voice. Be careful whose words come out of your mouth. Be sure you're not lending your voice and your strength to fanatics like those who maintain the Nuremburg Files. 
Babies are dying, but doctors are dying too. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
¦ TooAv'S STAFF  
News  Scene  
Erica Thesing  Mike Vanegas  
finn Pressly  Graphics  
Josh Bourgeois  Scott Hardy  
Sports  Production  
Kati Miller  Kathleen Lop('Z  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Mary Margaret Nussbaum  Kevin Dalum  


The Ob,cmr (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday t-xccpt Judng exam and v..u:adon periods. The Observer i.s a member of th< As,ociared l're.s. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer • INSIDE Monday, January 25, 1999 




utside. the Dome 
Compiled from /J-Wire reports 

Board of Regents balks at sexual orientation clause 
TAMPA. Fla. 
When President Betty Castor asked for a state university policy banning sexual-orientation discrimi.n ation, she may_ nol have foreseen Lhe con­troversy it would cause. 
Her proposal stalled at last week's Board of Regents meeting, when Chancellor Adam Herbert said it did not have the authority to ban that type of discrimination. Supporters around the state refuse to let it die. 
Students and faculty from universi­ties around Horida will trek to the Florida Education Building in Tallahassee Monday to protcsl the BOR's decision. 
R.J. Thompson, co-president of USF's Gay 'Lesbian Bisexual Transgender CAalition, _said he hopes to change the regents' minds. His organization plans to unfurl a large scroll listing more than 300 colleges and universities around the country 

"We're holding it to help Lhe chan­cellor and the BOR understand whv they can make it happen, even though they say that it is just a leg­islative matter," Thompson said. "Since it wasn't on their agenda [at last week's meeting), we had no prior knowledge. We could have let our wishes be known then." 
At that meeting Jan. 21. Herbert briefly announced that the State 
UnivMsity System did not have legal authority to include sexual orienta­tion as a protected class in anti-dis­crimination policy language_ 
"State law is very specific with regard to state agencies and we can­not provide -protections that. are not specifically authorized by the state LegiAlature," llerbert said 1.ast week_ 
Regent spokesman Keith Goldschmidt said the BOR could not institute such a policy until the Legislature adopts its own anti­discrimination policy language. 
"The Lr.gislature would have to change the law or create the law that would protect sexual orienta­tion, and then we would be able to write our policy off of that," Goldschmidt said. 
Thompson said there are several university systems that have enacted similar policies without similar pro­tections in state statutes. 
¦ VALE UNIVERSITY 
Bizarre photos delay hearing 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. 
A New Haven judge delayed the hearing of Tonica Jenkins, the woman accused of cheating her way into the Yale Graduate School and failing to appear for a court date. Her attorney asked for the extra time to investigate pho­tographs of Jenkins bound and gagged and an accompany­ing note seemingly written on Yale stationary. Jenkin's defense attorney, Norman Pattis, said he received the pho­tos by mail late Wednesday night, along with an anonymous letter purportedly from someone at Yale. Pattis said he would not comment on the note but said it appeared to be written on Yale letterhead. "We're investigating," Pattis said, "I don't know what it means." Yale officials said they have not seen the letter but denied the University's involve­ment in any inappropriate activity. "Any allegation that her application to Yale was truthful or that Yale did anything inappropriate is another fabrication." 
¦ Mmrntw STATE UN1vrnsnv Electrical fire kills graduate student 
MURRAY, Ky. 
The cause of the Friday morning fire that took the life of a Murray State graduate student and injured a University employee has been ruled electrical, Murray Fire Chief Pat Scott said. Scott said the fire, which killed Ricardo Garcia-Vidal, 23. of Villareal, Spain, and injured Randy Oeding, 47, of Ferdinand, Ind., was ruled to have been caused by plugs running off an extension cord in the living room by state deputy fire marshals Eddie Clark and Jack Flowers late Friday afternoon. Scott said the investigation is for all intents and purposes over. "The fire marshals are still putting together interviews from the firefighters," he said. "As far as the investigation goes, it is over." The Murray Fire Department received notification of the fire at 
2:59 a.m. Friday morning, and the first unit was dispersed to the scene at that time. Oeding probably escaped the house through a side window, Scott said. 

¦ UNIVERSITY Of PENNSYLVANIA 
ID card policy changes after attack 
PIIIIADELPI-IIA, Penn. 

In the wake of concern following the assault of a female stud1mt in the basement of Steinberg-Dietrich Hall two and a half months ago, the Division of Public Safety will now require students to wear their PennCards in many campus buildings late at night. The policy begins Monday and will be in effect nightly from 10 p.m. to 7 a.m. The eight buildings included in the policy are the Blauhaus, Meyerson Hall, Steinberg-Dietrich, the School of Veterinary Medicine, the McNeil Building, the Moore Building, the Towne Building and Logan Hall. The new policy is in line with ·an Undergraduate Assembly resolution passed after the assault. which called for increased late-night safety measures across campus. UA Vice Chairperson Michael Bassik said the prominently displayed PennCards will allow "students to recognize students and for security and police officers to also easily recognize students." 
¦ Vlt.LANOVA UNIVERSITY New website raises privacy concerns 
VILLANOVA, Penn. 

Could it be? Does a new web site really exist that dis­
plays not only the names but the faces of fellow class• 
mates? On Jan. 10. students returned for the spring 
semester and discovered the latest rumor: you can pre­
view your classmates via the Internet! The buzz spread 
quickly and before the day was over, most students and 
teachers had already utilized this innovation and had 
much to say about their discoveries. Most students 
believed the web site to be a positive addition to the new 
and improved University network. Senior Aly Ward said, 
"I love the new site. I wish they always had this kind of 
technology in the past because l loved finding out who's 
in my classes. ahead of time." Professor Belkin of the 
math department also benefitted from the site. She 
exclaimed, "I loved having a face to go with each name 
on my_ class roster." 
¦ Sourn BEND WEATHER ¦ NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The AccuWeather" forecast for 0000, Monday, Jan.. 25. 
ff 
Monday 



~ il~, 

Tuesday £8 :i•.: :,:~~: 
, ·:,,<?<~;-~,~:,;-· -f:5ie:(:-~·:-··· 
Wed~esdayQ, :;__ ~8 
-'1,


Thur~day ro. 

j ./ ~~! 30s .......... ........... 
O 1999 AccuWeatlier. Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
----­
Preuu1'9:

Friday ..~ ~Sb ~2·8, 
. . .· . f\v-,'J-''.'-.,_/''\,_/,;'l; \ .···· ... .. ;,i~;t:-··. .. :.:. ' •' J ® © B CZJ IT:l rill IBJ [:.:] 0 ~ ~ 
High low Showers Rain T•storms Flurrles Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Viti Assoc/a.red Press 
... ) 

Atlanta 71 40 Houston 74 46 Palm Beach 77 60 Boston 36 26 Las Vegas 57 47 Philadelphia 47 35
~,D ,.c0. u ru a {) ~ a 
Chicago 35 24 Lexington 45 33 Phoenix 68 55.. ,' ,.'' ..~..~,;.:. :. ·i·.;~i·,;:i· ·:.:-::.. ":. 
Showers T-storms Rain Flu"ies Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
Denver 38 12 New York 42 37 San Diego 58 51 
Via Associated Press CraphlcsNet 


----------...------~-------------~--------------·--­
Monday, January 25, l 999 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
---------------=---=---=---=---=---=----~--~ ­

Research team reports possible unknown planet 

The Observer/Kevin . alum Assistant professor of physics David Bennett and his wife, research assistant professor Sun Hong Rhie, used a technique called gravita­tional microlensing to detect a possible new planet. 
By ANNE MARIE MATTINGLY 
As.~ist,ll\C News Ediror 

Two members of lhe Notre Dame physics department reported the possible discovery of the 18th planet orbiting a star other than the sun, accord­ing to a .Jan. 11 press release from t\otre Dame Public Ifolations. 
Assistant professor or physics David Bennett and his wife, rosearch assistant professor Sun Hong Rhio, announced the findings at the annual American Astronomical Society mePting Jan. 9. 
"There are 17 extra-solar planets (thuL have been] discov­nred to be orbiting around 
Spring Break Setninars 
March 7-13, 1999 Experiential/ Service Learning 
Center for Social Concerns 
APPALACHIA SEMINAR 

-> Work and learn at one of 15 sites in the Appalachian region l


~~;:::::;,..~ n 
-> An ND tradition of service-learning -'¾_ 
L'ARCHE COMMUNITY SEMINAR 
-> Live for a week in community with persons with disabilities -> Read the work of Jean Vanier 

MIGRANT EXPERIENCES SEMINAR 
-> Work in the fields with migrant workers -> Assist agencies that serve migrants -> Live with migrant families 

WASHINGTON SEMINAR 

Theme: Violence and Nonviolence zn American Life 
-> Direct cpntact with political, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. 
-> Service and political awareness opportunities 


CIVIL & HUMAN RIGHTS SEMINAR 

-> Travel to key civil rights sites in the South (e.g., the King Center, the Nat. Civil Rights Inst.) -> Learn from leaders who were instrumental in 
civil rights legislation and development -> A new and unique opportunity 
All seminars offer one academic credit (various departments) 
Applications Available Now at the CSC Ap p Ii ca t i o n s D u e : Ja n. ·2 8, 1 9 9 9 
Also: Deadline extended for the Mexico Seminar 
CENTER FOR 



SOCIAL CONCERNS 
'nearby' sun-like stars. 'Nearby' means the backyard of' our solar system," said Bhic, who quantified this distance as including a radius of several­hundred light years. 
The team, whose members are part of a collaboration called Microlensing Planet Search (MPS), uses a lfidmique called gravitational micrnlens­ing to detect these 'extra-solar' planets. 
"Gravitational microlPnsing events occur when a faint or dark star passes very 

planets," according to the physics department release. 
But because such an event is so rare (approximately 50 microlensing events or.cur each year), the discovery must be conf"irmed within hours or another opportunity may not arise. 
"Confirmation must come during the few hours that the event is occurring," said Bemwtt. "Basically, we have to notify our competition, tlrn PLANET collaboration, when we see some­thing so that 
close to the 'GRAVITATIONAL they can try to 
line of sight to confirm it immo­a more dis-LENSING IS THE ONLY diately." 
tant, brighter GROUND-BASED METHOD The data could s t a r , " have been veri­explained THAT CAN FIND EARTH-MASS fied if observa­a physics PLANETS AROUND ORDINARY tions had bePn depart-STARS.' made from ment press South Africa release. instead of' "The light SUN HONG RIIIE Australia and rays from . New Zealand, t h e RESEARCH ASSISTANT PROFESSO/i according to the 
brighter star are bent by tho gravitational field of the closer, fainter star resulting in an observ­able magnification of the more distant, brighter star." 
Bennett said that other previously employed tech­niques were only capable of detecting very large planets. 
"The radial velocity tech­nique that has discovered the most extra-solar planets to date cannot yet detect a planet with a mass as low as that of Jupiter in a Jupiter-like orbit, although they are sensitive to lower-mass planets that orbit very close to their stars," he said. "Our gravitational microlensing technique is sensitive to lower mass planets." 
"Gravitational lensing is the only ground-based method that can find Earth-mass planets around ordi­nary stars," Rh ie said, describing yet another of the technique's advantages. 
One limitation is that the method only detects planets relatively close to the stars they orbit. 
"Th e gravitational microlensing planet search technique differs from other planet search techniques in that it is most sensitive to planets at a separation of one to five astronomical units (1 AU is equal to the distance from the sun to the Earth) from their star," explains the physics depart­ment statement. 
Despite initial data, the group cannot be sure that 
the  observed  object  is  
indeed a planet.  
"They have made  use  of  

the chance alignment of two stars in thP inner disk of our galaxy to probe the vicinity of the closer 'lens' star for 
OF PHYSICS Notre Dame 

Public Helations release. llowevcr, the tech­nique does offer some fairly definite conclusions about the mass of the object.What we are very confident of is that this system docs not have a planet more massive than Neptune and at a distance between one and five astronomical units from the lens star," said Bennett. 
Post-doctorate student Lindsay King and graduate stu­dents Jason Quinn and Chris Fragile were involved in the discovery, as well as researchers from the Universities of Washington and Minnesota, and the Mt. Stromlo and Siding Springs Observatory in Australia, according to Bennett. The Microlensing Observations in Astrophysics (MOA) group and the Massive Compact Halo Objects Collaboration (MACHO) also participated. 
Bennett and Rhie are also interested in bringing under­graduate physics majors on board to help with observations during the summer of 1999. 
Bennett also hopes that tech­nological advances will aid the efforts to discover new planets. 
"MPS is attempting to expand from a single 1.5-meter tele­scope in Australia to a network of three or more 1.5-to 2­meter telescopes in South America, South Africa and Australia," he said. "We are funded to fix up an old 1.5­meter telescope in South Africa, and we are trying to arrange to use some telescopes in Chile as well. 
"We arc also working in col­laboration with some other groups with complementary interests to develop a new set of cam<~ras that can efficiently image in multiple colors and correct for somP of tho image distortions caused by the atmosphere and telescope vibrations," Bennett continued. "When the expanded system is up and running, it is expected that many of the observers will he Notre Dame undergradu­ates." 
The event has been named MACH0-98-BLG-35, which refers to the fact that it is the 35th microlensing event discov­ered by the MACHO group in the area of the Galactic Bulge in 1998, according to Notre Dame Public Relations. MPS receives funding from thn National Science Foundation, NASA's Origins Program, and a Research Innovation Award from The Research Collaboration, according to the Physics Department. 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Monday, January 25, 1999 
March 
continued from page 1 
Notre Dame senior John Musewicz attended the march not only because he supports the pro-life move­ment but because he want­ed the experience of the march. 
"I heard it was a great experience. ft took some sacrifice. You meet great people and it was a great experience to see it hap­pen," said .Musewicz. "In some wavs it was kind of overwhelming. It was pow­erful to see how many peo­ple were there, how dedi­cated they are. 
Ile added, "I also saw how pained people are about the 

Minds 
continued from page 1 
Traub had mixed emotions about the addition of co-ed schools. 
"I appreciated the fact that two of the schools attending, Hope and Olivet Colleges, were from our MIAA [Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic Association] confer­ence. The co-ed colleges added a different perspec­tive," she said. "Sometimes I wished there were just rep­resentatives from all women's colleges there to discuss issues like increasing school spirit. Students at women's colleges just have a different perspective on some topics that those at co­ed schools who may not have to deal with the same issues." 
Block, who was represent­

\\\ 
\ 

issue. to a degree I didn't expect. I think going into it I hadn't sorted the issue com­pletely out in my head. This helped that." 
Being with other Christians was a moving experience for Meghan Gurgol, a Notre Dame sophomore. 
"I just wanted to go based on principle," she said. "As college students we have responsibility and it's important to take some steps to show that. I've sensed a real community on the trip. The first thing that struck me was a sense of Christian unity. It didn't matter that the people next to me were Episcopalian. I pray that's the way things arc going." 
ing a co-ed institution, was not sure how she would be received upon arrival at the conference . 
"At first I wasn't sure how we would be accepted because we were from a co­ed college but I felt very accepted," she said. 
Stacey Lazenby, director of Student Activities at St. Joseph's College, was pleased to have had the opportunity to participattid in the conference. 
"I think more co-ed col­leges should take advantage of this opportunity in years to come," said Lazenby. 


Missions 
continued from page 1 

ple." The impact of those clinics amazed her. 
"At one clinic, we had packed up all of our medical supplies, were in the car, and were ready to go," she said. "A woman stopped us and said that she had been traveling for two days to get there. Their medical care was very primitive, very sub-U.S. standard." 
She also said the experience taught her the importance of giv­ing. 
"People are very appreciative," she said. "Medicine is a good tool to introduce people to God. I love being able to help people." 
While Hodak had no family ties to missionary work, she always knew it was something that she wanted to explore. 
"Ever since I came to Saint Mary's, I knew that I wanted to work in Latin America," she said. After taking the El Salvador pil­grimage during her spring break, she received an invitation to work there for the summer. 
"I knew that was where I needed to be," she said. 
Hodak's summer work involved teaching English to students ages 12-18, something that taught her not only the importance of giving, but of learning as well, she said. 
"I worked with another teacher, and observed how he taught," she said. "In one way it was good because I was confident enough with my English that r could share it with them. But as much as I helped them with their English. they helped me with my Spanish. We were able to learn from each other." 
Hodak also worked in a bakery and an organic garden, something she says was not to give of herself, but to learn a way of life different than her own. 
"For me, it was about solidarity," she said. "These women taught me how to bake bread and plant seeds. I wanted to learn what their lives were like. It's hard. They work in the bakery for $50 per month, or 13 cents an hour." 

f""/-"/1,l/#h#/""/.,_'A',-,,.,,, .,,,. ,111 ,,,1/,/.,,,,A,/,#/,,.,.,/6,a,,/,.,,./l/,.,,,,,/""""'7#/W/Jr/l~l/l,W/l/l½l'/l/l.I/IA,11',.Jl/','I. .I~...,.-I ,.. _... ,,; .. ~ J • .v .,-,¥=--"/.,-.l/l,W'/I/IMYl/,.,.YIYl.-,71/l'-t 
i ~ 
I ~ 
!,, Want to win a bike trip in Ireland or a Disney World vacation II 
I
I
i 
I 
~ 
I
I
j 
I,, 
I I
I
I 'I 

AND raise money for a good cause? I
I
I 

Then join in the fight to find a cure for Juvenile Diabetes. I
I 
Ii 

Participate in the first annual I 
~ 

IRISH vs. DIABETES I 
competition.-Sign up a team offour by calling ;i Gina or Barb at x1462 or Danielle at x1551. I 
i

Or look for sign-up sheets in your dorm. I 
i 

ie,l/#/..,./.,-l/..,./..,./l/ll"'#,~'l/l/l/#/l/l/l/l/1./l/l'/l/l/l'Yl/~/.l/l/.#/l/l/l/l/l'/l/#/#/#/l/l/l/..,./l,W/,/.l/l/l,:.r.~·1. ,11-"" ·-_,.,.., _,.;a,;,..,../#/#;!,•r~l/~l/..,./.#/1/#/IX.,.~ 

Save up to 75% on Mac & Windows Software! 
Notre Dame Students and Faculty receive up to 75% off retail prices on all software. FREE delivery on all orders until 1/29/99! ADW 1-800-333-8571 
Let Your Voice Be Heard!
'\\ 

·-.,\ \ / Meeting Tonight 9:00 pm ) '· 


/I/ 

in the Student Government Office 

Studen 
ent mment
(Floor 2 of Lafortune) 
Assist with the Student Report to the Board of Trustees 
This report is the only direct contact that students have with the Board ofTrustees. In the 
report, students make recommendations to the Trustees for further action. Previous reports 
have ranged in topic from social space to m,ulti-cultural, academic, and financial issues. Last 
semester's report, "Building Bridges: The First Year ofStudies and Beyond," opened a 
constructive dialogue between the students and the Trustees. 
It's time now to continue to foster and open dialogue between you and the Trustees. Ifyou 
have either ideas or the drive to assist in the upcoming Spring 1999 Board of Trustees Report, 
please attend the informational/planning meeting TONIGHT (MONDAY) at 9:00 pm in the 
Student Government Office. For more information, please contact Mark Massoud at 243-5567. 
Putting Students First! 

Monday, January 25, 1999 COMPILED FROM THE OBS.ER.VER WIRE SERVICES page 5 

¦ MEXICO 


Papal visit draws a million to racetrack 

AsSOCIATED PRESS 
MEXICO CITY 
A million faithful packed a dusty Mexico City racetrack Sunday to hear a call to arms from Pope John Paul II-a summons to take to the streets and confront t!rn challenge of Protestant evangelism. 
The papal !\lass was a powerful dis­play of tho aging pontiffs spell over this prndominantly Homan Catholic nation. "Mexico, always faithful!" chanted the crowd, int,•nt on showing the pope that their affection hasn't diminished since his iirst trip here in 1979. 
Organizers estimated the crowd at 011c million, and thousands more lis­tcn!ld from outside the packed race­track grounds. Parishioners perched on sngging tree branches, stood on l'ricnds' shoulders or clambered onto loudspeaker stands to view the specta­cle. 
Thousands of makeshift cardboard periscopes poked above the crowd so that those toward the back of tho track, nnarly a mile from the altar, could catch a glimpse of the pope. 

John Paul urged his audience to ignore the seductions of what he called "fallacious and novel ideologies" and to spread the word of the church -a cen­tral theme of his visit, in which he has called upon his followers to aggressive­ly combat significant inroads made by Protestantism. 
"Don't fail to respond to the Master who calls. Follow him to become, like the apostles, fishers of men," the pontilT declared. 

"Make Christ's word reach those who still do not know him. Have the courage to bear witness to the gospel on the streets and in the town squares, in the valleys and mountains of this nation!" 
Few in the crowd complained about the cold, the overflowing portable toi­lets or the mounds of trash. "It's worth it. To see the pope, anything is worth the sacrifice," said Miguel Duran, a 19­year-old student who peered into a periscope fashioned from a box of crackers and a mirror. 

Later Sunday. the pope consoled patients at the Adolfo Lopez Mateos Hospital, a large public institution for state employees in southern Mexico City. 
Mothers held their ailing children over a velvet rope in the lobby, and the pope embraced many of them and 
AFP Photo 

Pope John Paul II embraces a young Mexican girl after giving her communion during a mass at the Hermanos Rodriguez motor racing track in Mexico City on Sunday. 
blessed others before going to the fourth floor to meet privately with patients with AIDS, cancer and other terminal illnesses. 
"You are never alone in the face of the mystery of pain. You are with Christ, who gives meaning to every­thing in life, to the moments of happi­ness and peace, as well as the moments of affiiction and pain," the pope said in a me~sage read for him by a cardinal. 
The Mass at the racetrack was the biggest event in the pope's five-day trip to Mexico, which has a special relation­ship with the pontifT rooted in a shared veneration for the country's patron saint, the Virgin of Guadalupe. An image of the virgin hung above the altar. 
Hundreds of people arrived days before the Mass, and hundreds of thou­sands shivered in temperatures that plunged to 23 degrees overnight. The pilgrims were asked to stand at 5:30 
a.m. to makeroom for the growing crowd. 

House prosecU.tits.question Lewinsky 
AssoetATED PRESS.· 
. . . . WAStltN.GTON 
At a ctiticnl juncture in PrcsMent Clinton's impcacllml'int tria.l, ffouse prosecutors iliterviewed Monica Lewinsky for almosttwo hours on Sunday f~nd tissotted hor te$titrv)ny would help the Senatfl "determine the. truth." 
The House.teum focused mi i$sues at the h(lart of obstruction of justic~ allegations against. Clinton. ac,co.rcling to a source familiar with the.interview ...... the job so.p-chfor Ms. L~\IVhtskt and retric\lal of prcisidcudal gift$ for the former intern. 
The s.ossion triggcrod partis(ln 9on­vu1sions even before it was held and by Sunday morn\ng. eVen three Republi~an sena,lors said.·_thf.ly:waot~~d a swift end to tho case. Two of them expressed Mpo·roir a con~lqsfon ·thl§' 

week: 
When the tuterview.rndect, Ms. J,9\Vip.$ky'5 la:wyof, ·Plato Ca<.he:ris, said sfie '.'added nolhing to the record t.lratii3 alr~ady sHtlng before the 
· Senate right now;.'.' 
Yeta.ll··three. 1{ouse managers who participated l.n the Interview calleP i.he sosslon prodUctive. . 
"I believe she would be a witness th,at -w9uld help them determine the 
. truth, 0ind that'$ what we ar., all r,pdeayorjng. to do. during th.is proCe$Q," said Rep, Asa Hutchinson, H·Ark, Rl:'p. Bill McCollum. H-flla., sai<l·.·Ms, fe,¥ln.§ky ''might be a very helpful witness to the Senate if called:"'Rep: Ed Bryant, R~T~nn., clia1·a.cledzcdthefonner Willie. House intern asilimpressive.". . . · . Gachtfri(saidhis :cuentl'was candid, forihdghtand· ~icirernely truthful'' but heln,ist.~~ !hat anything she would 
tell ~he Semite would cover familiar ground. Ht~ urged the managers to tell their colleagues tha.t it is unnecessary to call Ms. Lewinsky as a witness, so thal hM "long nighlinarn'' could end. 
The three congrossnrnn were espe­cially interested in presidential friend Vernon Jordan's 01T1.1rt to find a job for Ms. Lewinsky l\lld in Oval Oflku secrntary Betty Currie's retrieval of Clinton's gifts to Ms. Lewinsky, snid tho sourco, who spoko on condition of anonymity. 
Prosecutors contend thP job search and the gift n~trleval wne undert.aken to thwart lawyers for Paula Jones, who wanted Ms. Lewinsky to testify in the JonM civil lawsuil and also sub­poenaed the prnsidenlial gifts. Tho White House denies any connection between the Jones case, on the one hand, and the job hunt and the gift transfer on tho other. 
Monday, January 25, 1999

page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 




Academia returns to focus of beauty in literature 
By MIKE ROMANCHEK power and politics," he empha­News Writer sized. "Religious faith is impor­tant in ilo;; own terms, aesthetics Some humanities professors is an important consideration are moving away from lhe popu­and relationships are important." lar trend of cultural analysis in Werge believes that part of the literary studies and have begun problem v.'ith addressing aesthet­devoting their time to exploring ics in literature is that people beauty in literature. have a tendency to separate 
Exploring aesthetics in literary beauty from its traditional con­studies is not a new concept. But tent of lruth and goodness. for nearly half a century, cultural "There is still a tendency to analysis has been the dominant argue that beauty is whatever theme of many literary acade­people think it is. and that it is mics who have been influenced totally in the eye of the beholder by the political activism of their -there is no metaphysical beau­time. ty, there is no transcendent 
But recently. interest in cultur­beauty and ,m then the very word al analysis has been waning. becomes diminished and trivial­
"Right now pulitics is very pop­ized," said Werge. ular and I tJ1ink that there is a Ono advantage aesthetks has tendency on the part of many over cultural analysis and deduc­
academics to be reductive, in tion, according to Werge, is that that everything reduces ii.self to a beauty is experienced by all question of politics or power," human beings and is therefore said Thomas Wcrgc, professor of present in every human lifo. English at Notre Dame. "The rea­"Academia tends to be very son there is this wearying in cul­trendy so you'll have periods in tural studies is simply that it can which concern [for the aesthetic] be too reductive. It assumes seems to be rejected all together everything can be reduced to and people are uninterested in it 
power and that simply is not or cynical about the very idea," true." Werge said. "But I think under Politics and power can only the surface we always have 
relate to human lives in a few reminders that there arc certain 
distinctly social dimensions. experiences and objects of phe­
Some proponents of deductive nomena which are beautifuL" 
cultural analysis claim that While there are no set guide­
power and politics can be discov­lines for defining aesthetic stan­ered at the root of most litera-. dards in literature, people's ture, but Werge disagrees. shared experiences create a uni­
"We know that not to be true, versal idea of beauty. 
not everything is reducible to "Obviously different cultures 

Need a job? Tired of Washing Dishes? 
The Student Activities Office is currently taking applications for the position of Program Assistant. 
Flexible hours, .. Good pay, Plan campus events, Make fun ads like this one. 
Application deadline January 29th. Apply ip Lafortune 315. Questions? Call 1-7309. 
e 

SPRING BREAK '99 • PANAMA CITY BEACH, FLORIDA 
It's all goqd! 

~ ,••:1&1. ~.,_
,eae1iw.'n 

And this Spring Break. _" 
,I its all here... ~ 
• 11 , ileeiiiiiiiiiiieiie ' l.ocn.ed nc,tt door ro '99 SPRING DEAK ,


=~~:-. $39GE:• 
Spring Break Hcadq\Wtcn for Panama City Beach, .......,
Fl .d d t ,. ......uou: 
on a. An as nost ro S1, G If front Be2Ch Club '99, you'll be atco~atlon1 
immer,ed in the cena:r of:ill frN pa,,., to the non stop party ~i>n! Splnnalter ,. i.v.i. So puiy with rhouand,, Host to Slorts 
but deep with the best! Ulustrat.d .ach
C '99 ~ 

have varied views of aesthetics. marriage and death are accom­beauty that links readers to liter­of what might constitute beauty panied by ritual. They are ature r,an be found in the experi­in a certain context," said Wcrge. acknowledged everywhere as ences of everyday life. "But l think ultimatelv one could vitally important moments in "Part of the reason people go argue that there is a tmiversality, one's life_" into literature is because they the experiences we all hold Aesthetics can be found at the. find stories to be beautiful," said important. always birth, always root of literature and tho same Werge. 
I  Campus Bz&le Srwly BACK IN ACTION! InreRFazrh BzkLe Sruoy FrRsr Meerznq T~~]a!.1,~flRJ ~6 . -"-....._..,.,­~ ,, 7:0011~~---~ I 1j~~zn HaLL~e~ I,, I i -­' : ; I l ·, -­'l~4v.;AL D'AL~-u,,-.a.cs·c .; f !rrMa11ttllni12 0 -,,, ­; • b:-'-::::::l 11. _ ~-~­H , ~ -wzLL he pRovioeo ~yone WeLcome! PeRzoo Of feLLowshzp fOLLows meenm;; wzrh RefReshmenrs.. ~  
ATTN: NOTRE DAME STUDENTS NEW PHARMACY HOURS Effective Monday, January 25, 1999 University Health Services Pharmacy will be open Monday -Friday 9:30am -5:00pm UHS prescription refills may be dropped off & picked up between 8:00am -11 :00pm. Cash or charge to student account. (Charge & prescriptions cards not accepted.)  


Monday, January 25, 1999 ________:;_c:.::...::_~,.;._~--=--==..:=-.:..-=...--=-.:..;=-..:...:.....=....____________________
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Lectures explore encyclicals 
Special rn The Observer Throughout the semester, faith issues here at Notre 
various lectures will explore Dame. They are all present­
The Knights of Columbus papal encyclicals dating ed in a casual setting and all conlinuo its lecture series back to Leo XIII, the students and faculty are for tlm Spring semester nnli­Sacranwnt of' Reconciliation, encouraged to attend." Lled "Fuith and llnason at and also Lhe role of Catholic According to Knights of Notrn Damn." These locturns universities in America. Columlms Lecturer Gerry will run on Wndnesdavs at 8 Lectures aro drawn from Olinger. "ThP.se are evenings 
p.m. in the Knights or professors at Notre Dame as for those interested in Columbus Building on South well as Bishop John D'Arcy exploring their faith, in a Quad. of the Fort Wayne-South relaxed and reflective 
The sP.rins was sparked by Bend Diocese. According to atmosphere." Refreshments thn nnw nncyclica! writton Grand Knight HP.njamin will be served after all the 
by !'ope John Paul II on Evans, "We want to provide lectures. Faith and llnason. a forum for discussing these 
~ ---------WHY NOT..II 
Hometown: Little Falls, MN 
I I Majo,r: Quantitative Methods/ 
I Computer Science I Favorite junk food: Caramel Corn I 
1"Holy Cross turned me into a Zahmbie. 
I ANSWER THE CALL today!" 
I

I --Fr. Jim Lies, C.S.C., ND '87, Rector, Zahm Hall I 
For more information on
I 

I 
Holy Cross' one-year I Candidate Program contact:
I Fr. Jim King, C.S.C. or
I Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. 
I 
1-6385

I vocation. l@nd.edu 
I 

~ • ---~ FOLLOW HIM .... ? 
check out 1HEPLUNGEat www.nd.edu/~vcx:x:rtion 
1999-2000 Assistant Rector Applications 
for University Residence Facilities Are Now Available 

Completed Applications must be submitted by February 12, 1999. 
For More Information, call the Office of Student Affairs at 631-5550 

The Observer/Joe Slark 

· Juniors Tom Weiler, Nick Burns and Pat Nolan gathered outside Knott Hall Sunday afternoon for a game ofcricket. In cricket; one player bowls the ball toward the wick­et, which is in the center of the photo, while another player uses the bat in an attempt to stop the ball from hitting the wicket . 

~~l :t.: 
The Passionist Lay Missioners · * 
,ct . Invite you to ~ 
a General Information Session! · ,.I 
Tuesday, January 26, 1999 4:30P.M. 


... 

Center for 5oclal Concerns 
Stop by our Information uble which will l>c: eet up l>etwcen the 
... 

houre of 1:00 pm. and 4:00 p.m on that 5ame day. 
Wor~ In the lnner-clty.Llve a simple, 
~ communal llfe.Engage In social analysls.Grow spiritually and personally.Reflect on the 

',,,!',,

contemporary Passion of Jesus 
_.. . , .... 
, ·,

f ASSIONIST LAY MISSIONERS 5700 N. Harlem Avenue 
-· 

Chica o, IL 606 1 ~ )Iti d . . 7 -6 -6 3 
~ 61 ·= :=· ~
~-~~~~®>~J~--lii-.1!£1 \I . 





VIEWPOINT 
page 8 -------------------------
-------------------Monday,January 25, 1999 

THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAM£ OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY'S 01'F!CE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, lN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EorroR-IN-CHIH Hearher Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Rrian Reinthaler Kyle Carlin 
A.ssrsTANT MANAGING EDITOR Hearhcr MacKenzie 

NEWS EDITOR ........................Michelle Krupa ADVERTISING MAl'/AGER........................Bryan Lurz VIEWPOINT EDITOR .................. Eduardo I.lull An DESIGN MANAGER ........................ Brett Huclat SrORTS EDITOR ...................... K.,hleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER .....................Michad Brouill« SCENE EDrroRs ............................ Sarah Dylag CoNTROLl.ER .••• , ......................·.•.•..••.. Dave Rogcro 
Kristi Klitsch WEB ADMINISTRA[OR .......................Allison Krilla SAINT MA!tY's Eon-OR .......M. ShaJ1non Ryan GRArHICS EDlTOk ...............................Pere Cilella PHOTO EDITOR ........................ Kevin Dalum 
The Observer is rhc iridcpenJcnt newspaper published by the scudencs of rhc Unl\·ersicy 0fNotre Dame du Lac and S:aint Maty's CoHc-gc. b d0e, not nc~rily refleo. the-po\icit.-S. of the administration ofeither institution. The news is rcpDrred as accur.1rdy and objccrivdy .u possible. Unsigned editorials represent chc opinion of rhc majority ofthe Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Edicor and departmenr editors. Commentaries, letters and columns prcsen< chc views ofthe authors, and nor nec~rily chose ofThe Observer. Viewpoint !;.p;1cc is availabk ro all me:mbc~ ofthe Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The fo:<: <::xpreso;ion ofvarying opini0m through lcncrs is cnrnuraged. 
Contacting The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Assistant ME 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Sports 63 I -4543 Fax 631-6927 Scene/Saint Mary•s 631-4540 Viewpoim E-Mail Viewpoint.t@nd.edu Day Ediwr/Yicwpoint 631-5303 Ad E-Mail observ<"r@darwin.cc.nd.edu Office Manager/General lnform,tion 631-7471 News E-Mail observ<"r.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
¦ LET ME CLEAR MY THROAT .,. 

Clinton Trial of Extreme Importance to U.S. Public 
The Senate Impeachment trial of president Clinton could well come to an end this week. Beginning this after­noon, lawmakers in our Congresses 

Scott 

Cullen 


upper chamber must debate and ulti­mately decide whether or not to esca­late the trial against Clinton, or dismiss it. Every step of this episode has been historic, much of it has been precedent setting with regards to our national leadership, its limits, its vulnerability and its stature. The impeachment has occupied headlines throughout the world and crafted all shades of opinion within tho international community. For whatever the outcome of this trial, the public face of the United States has become a Congress engaging in an impeachment, and a president craftily trying to evade its harshest possible 
outcome. 

Yet despite the uproar, America, for the most part, does not care. While the media is allotting a tremendous amount of attention to the issue, the American public is giving minimal thought to the matter. Just as the president and the House (though, it might be argued, not the Senate) have gone about crossing all manner of political and historical lines with a rather cavalier attitude, we too as a populace have gone about assessing these events even more casu­ally. In doing so, we set precedent more alarming than those we have elected. For the very Constitution whose articles the Senate and the House bandy about these days ultimately places final responsibility for the political life of the nation with us. 
The latest CNN/fime poll backs up the assertion that America is simply disin­terested in the impeachment. It pro­vides us with numbers that show that the public does not support further pro­ceeding with the Senate trial. Moreover, it indicates that the majority of the pub­lic believes that the trial does not impede Clinton from performing his job, but that most American's do not respect him. Such numbers are not new in the past 12 months and they have been tra­ditionally interpreted as telling us a 
familiar story; the public cares about results, not character in a commander in chief. 
This is a misinter­pretation. 
The CNN poll indi­cates favorable num­bers for most of Clinton's proposals last week, and that America trusts him more than his Republican antago­nists in Congress in taking on such issues as Big Tobacco and Education. But these 
remain just proposals, nothing con­crete. Issues that he will clearly have a hard time pushing through a belligerent Republican-controlled Congress. The president himself highlighted the eco­nomic strength and prosperity currently enjoyed by the nation in last weeks State of the Union address. Yet the man who many in the know attribute that success to, Federal Reserve Board .. Chairman Allan Greenspan, last week testified before Congress in opposition to Clinton's biggest proposal of all; his plan to save welfare. Yet economic 
times make for rosy dispositions, and so many citizens, when queried on why Clinton is an effective president offer 
the Jess than definitive response, "he's 
been good for the economy." 

In terms of public relations, Clinton and the Democrats obviouslv haven't lost the advantage they've h·eld for the past six years. The State of the Union address was Clinton at his essence; masterfully assuming control of the televised media and delivering a speech that, regardless of content, caused even his opponents to concede that he stole the show. The nation responded in its favorable poll showings immediately after the speech. By contrast, the Republicans, particularly those in the 
'LOST IN ALL OF THE 
PUBLIC DISINTEREST AND POLITICAL GERRY­MANDERING IN WASHINGTON ARE A COL­
LECTION OF VERY SERIOUS ISSUES PERTAINING TO OUR GOVERNMENT.' 
House have come off as seeming vindic-· tive, partisan and contravening popular will. Clinton retains a youthful vigor pub­licly, and appears to gain more strength with every apparent setback. House man­ager Henry Hyde and his collection of pros­ecutors, on the other hand, do little to dis­suade the common popular public con­ception of what a Hepublican is. 
The point is this. 
Little if any substance backs up the cur­rent polls regarding the president, the Congress and the impeachment. A com­bination of Democratic media mastery, Republican ineptitude, along with a good economy has left most Americans content, if questioned, to come out in opposition to a change of leadership, and therefore to oppose Clinton's impeachment. 
Lost in all of the public disinterest and political gerrymandering in Washington are a collection of very serious issues pertaining to our government. Starting with the biggest of them all; does per­jury constitute a high crime or misde­meanor? Should standards for removal by impeachment differ from office to office? Does it matter if a transgression occurs in a civil rather than a criminal procedure? What should the limits of the independent counsel law be? Does subjecting the secret service to subpoe­na compromise the security of the pres­ident and the first family? 
Despite appearances, these questions could prove of the utmost importance to the American public. Yet the national conversation regarding the above ques­tions fluctuates between minimal and non-existent. If you are a Clinton oppo­nent, and not taking an active stance on the impeachment. you could well be giving tacit approval to the Congress legitimizing perjury by the head of both our government and our state under particular circumstances. If you are a Clinton supporter and not making your opposition known to the current pro­ceedings, you might without realizing, be acceding to a tremendous weakening of the office in both its autonomy and its stature. It is likely that the day will come when both parties can produce media darlings that master the charis­ma and sound bite game at a time when the economic and global picture is not as bright as it is today. Should such a time arrive, snap judgments based upon minimal information will not be so readily made. The commander in chief at that time will still be subject to the precedents being established today. At a time when such weighty issues occupy the spotlight, our national dialogue needs to entail more than Range Rovers and trash television. As stated above, we live under a governmental system where ultimate responsibility falls to the public. If the precedents set today without our concern should precipitate or magnify crises for a future adminis­tration, we will all bear the guilt of neg­ligence. 
Scott Cullen is a senior in the College ofArts and Letters. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
¦ fiUOTE OF THE DAY 
, The future isn't what it used to be.' 
-attributed to Yogi Berra 

GARRY TRUDEAU
¦ DOONESBURY 




VIEWPOINT 
Monday, January 25, 1999 
page 9 
¦ UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS 

America Has too Many Hangovers, and It's the Puritans' Fault 
(U-WIIWI CIIAMI'/\IGN. Ill. a night of drinking and punish them­
I.Pl nm 1ixplain. l'v11 just returned from selves with lmngovers. Brit11in. whPre I spPnl las1 semPstPr All this worry about alcohol has soaking up tlw culture, so to speak. accomplished very little -our rates of 
I studi<!d al llrn Uniwrsity of Wah1s at alcoholism are right on target with Swansria, a smalli!.;h public university in Europe. Most scientists agree that alco­wnslorn Britain. Tlw first week of class. holism is a physiological disorder, one nwry acadnmic dnpartmm1t held an that strikes d<ispite attempts at repress­artnrnoon snrial. whnrn students got the ing it. And just as prohibition benefltod 1:hunct? lo mingln with profnssors. Wine organized crime. the demonizal.ion of and hf'1ff WPrn in grf'at ahundance. alcohol might have worsened the prob­Bel'on· long students and professors lems we associate with alcohol. The alik1i wnrci traslwd. And nobody thought more off-limits alcohol is, the more trou­it was strang<'. bl.e we get. into when we drink. 
Although it's not 1111cornrnon !'or pro­For examplc1, while college students l!•ssors hnn• lo hold tlrn last class of a cverywhern bingi, drink, no mm does it S!'ITll'St~r at a campus bar, I've nnvnr as murh as American students. And the heard of any UnivPrsity dnpartnrnnt sup­rat.es of date-rape. drunk driving and plying liquor alcohol­to students relatl'd 
'OUR IAWS PUNISH UNDERAGE DRINKING 
on campus. crime arc 
MORE THAN ANY OTHER WESTERN
at a higher l lnivnrsity NATION. AND YET WE HAVE JUST AS MANY 
among us l'unclion. If than our 
ALCOHOLICS, MORE DRUNK DRIVERS AND
it's not European against olli­MORE HANGOVE:RS.' counter­
rial parts. The Univnsity U.S. has 164 policy, I'm stm' it would be frownml support groups like Alcoholics 
upon. It was only thn first lime I rnalized Anonymous per million citizens. The that though wn sham much with U.K. has only 51 groups per million, Wcsl«\rn Furop!'. our attitudes toward despite the fact that they have just as alcohol clilfor dramatically. many alcoholics. We just worry more. 
Tlw UniVl'rsity of Wales also owns and I'm not denying that alcohol is a killer. operates four pubs on campus. much as Every hour, two Americans die in drunk tlw Univ1\rsity owns and operates tlrn driving accidents_ That's almost 350 housing cafnlPrias and special rnstau­deaths -as many as would die in a 747 rnnts in Urn dorms. Two of these bars crash -every week. Families, careers arn in ttw student union and one is in a and lives arn destroyed by alcoholism. dorm. BPtwcen lectures. studnnts drop But America seems to be particularly hy for a quick pint lwfore their next sensitive to alcohol's dark side. Per capi­dass. /\nd therP is nothing wrong with ta. we spend more money, time and 
il. British students do not feel like they energy on combatting the ravages of 
an• gr.Hing away with somr.thing for alcohol abuse than any other nation. Our drinking a pint of Cuinness before an laws punish underage drinking more al'tPrnoon class. than any other Western nation. And yet 
While the U11iv11rsity of Wisconsin at we have just as many alcoholics, more Madison and a fow ot.lwr American cam­drunk drivers and morn hangovers. pusns snrvr. alcohol, they arc certainly Why'! 1l11• ('Xception. You would nevP-r hear A study releaslld in 1997 measured the that tlrn University board of trustees cultural differences of alcohol consump­ctPbaling a plan t<; spnnsor a studr.nt tion among Western nations. The study, bar. by American psychologist Stanton Peele, 
Tlw di!Terence, of course. is that in was published in the medical journal most European nations, drinking is Alcohol and /\lcoholism. The study found mur.h morn a part or the religious, cul­a link between the in11uence of the tural and familial traditions. In Britain, Protestant faith and the stigmatization of Uw drinking age is 18, although 16-year­alcohol. Countries like ours, which have olds can ordnr an alcoholic beverage at a strong protestant heritage, stigmatize a har as long as it is ordered with a alcohol to a greater degree than Catholic meal. The police snldom enforce the law, nations. Nations without this puritanical !lither. I never once saw a bar bust. Fake bent tend to accept alcohol use as a IDs am unnccr.ssary. A British friend familial and religious tradition, \\,hereas 
told me of the first time hr. ordered a we are more likely to link alcohol with drink at a pub -he was 11. negative. self-destructive motives. 
Conseqmmtly, virtually all British Consequently, we have more support frcshmrm arrive on campus already groups dedicated to alcoholism. knowing how lo handle their liquor. For In countries like Ireland, Spain, Italy Anwrican studm1ts, freshman year and and France, where Homan Catholicism alcohol cxpnrimentation usually go has always dominated, the average per hand-in-hand. Alcohol bncomes a potnnt capita consumption of alcohol is almost symbol of' fremtom from parents, of twice that of the U.S. Yet the U.S. has 
relwllion. Ard1ml drinkers build pyra­more than 20 times the number of alco­
mids out of empty cans. People brag hol-related support groups as France. 
about how much .Jaegnr they drank, or So it SP-Pms that our demonization of 
how much tlwy vomitml last night. alcohol has been counterproductive. 
Akohol has bnrm dmnoniznd in th11 Who started this trend? I think we have 
U.S. A certain stigma has been attached to blame the Puritans -our high-mind­to alcohol usn, and consequently quite a ed forefathers. They wanted a "city on hit of' himptation. The more our culture thf' hill" anrl I get a hangov11r instead. tries lo dcmnnizc alcohol, the morn tempting it becomes. We have invested Da11id Klepper is a columnist.for the alcohol with trnmendous social and Daily !llini at the University ofIllinois. moral implications. This anxiety about This column originally appeared in the alcohol dm1sn 't krn~p us from drinking, Dail11 lllini on Jan. 22 and has been tl11111gh. We just Lhink we're crossing a reprinted here courtesy ofthe U-Wire. moral boundary wlwn we do it. lie can be reached at 
One study al'tually round that di@iflinimedia.com. Furopeans rnport l'nwer hangovers than The views expressed in this column /\ml'ricans. The study's conclusion: are those ofthe author and not neces­.,\mcricans foe! unconsciously guilty after sarily those ofThe Obser11er. 
¦ LETTER TO THE" EDITOR 


Kudos for Keeping Campus Passable Despite Snow 
I would like tOtake this opportunity to thank the people who are responsi­ble for keeping the Notre Dame Campus passable during the past snow !>'torms_ l believe that they deserve a real round of applauso l'or tlwir 1>.tl'orts. ThtH'C n1wer V\fa.~:a.,day on which a person could not traverse the campus. Again, ThankyimJ 
Jerome J. Meyer, C.S.C. 
January 24. 1999 

¦ LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Iraq's Threat to Israel is Adequate Reason for Alliance with U.S. 
On Jan. 18, The Observer published Israel is the land that God gavn to tlrn a letter to the editor by Joseph E. children of Israel, beginning at tlrn Vallely, M. A., alongside a column by time of Abraham. /\ftcr tlrn long, Fr. Malloy exhorting the Notre Dame intolerable enslavement in Egypt, th11 community to "prepare the next gen­children of Israel returned to the eration of leaders for a society that Promised Land. In the last prophecy struggles with notions of integrity, before Moses' death, we read "And honesty and honor." Mr. Vallely's let­the Lord said to him; this is the land ter, entitled "Israel Alliance with U.S. of which I swore to /\braham. Isaac lrnading for Disaster," was intended and Jacob, 'I will give it to your off­as a commentary on the involvement spring,"' (Deut. 34:41. .Jerusalem, the of U.S. troops in Iraq. However, in his capital city, is a Holy City not only for 
attempt to criticize  Jews, but for  
U.S. foreign policy, Mr. Vallely did not act with "integrity,  'WHILE MR.· VALLELY HAS  Christians and Muslims as well. Since l 948. Israel  
honesty and honor"  EVERY RIGHT TO EXPRF.SS  has been a modern  
but rather proceeded to write an anti­ HIS OPINION ABOUT U.S.  state: a homeland to the Jewish people.  
Israel diatribe that was offensive and  MILITARY POLICY IN -THE  Created in the after­math of the  
anti-Semitic.  VIEWPOINT SECTION OF  Holocaust, Israel is  
Mr. Vallely writes that the Babylonian  THE NEWSPAPER, I VEHE- a haven for Jews living in the  
captivity resulted  MENTLY OBJECT TO HIS  Diaspora. The Law  
from Israel's hard­ness of heart, which  PREJUDICIAL AND OFFEN- of Return states that any Jnw, regardless  
was manifest in  the  SIVE STATEMENTS ABOUT  of his country of cit­ 
"rebellious and demon worshiping  BOTH MODERN AND  izenship, may return to live in  
[sic] Israel who had decided to rely on a  ANCIENT ISRAEL.'  Israel. In the after­math of the collapse  
military alliance with  of the Soviet Union,  
Egypt rather than  the State of Israel  

repent and a~cept the God-ordered has absorbed over 500,000 Hussian punishment of captivity." Mr. Vallely Jews into a country approximately considers that modern Israel remains the size of Rhode Island. "stiff-necked" and, instead of repent­Israel, as a modern state, certainly ing, has aligned herself to the U.S., has its problems. While Mr. Vallely since she "stubbornly bP-lieves that has every right to express his opinion there is no need to repent of sins about U.S. military policy in the such as abortion." To Mr. Vallely, the Viewpoint section of the newspaper, 1 sole purpose· for bombing Iraq was to vehemently object to his prejudicial provide "emotional security to and offensive statements about both Israel." . Modern and Ancient Israel. My 
As a duel-citizen of the United grandmother could tell Mr. Vallt1ly States and of Israel, I am in a unique about the nights she spent during the position to consider both the impor­Gulf War in a sealed room clutching tance of the United States' position as her gas-mask. Believe mc. Iraq is a world leader as well as the dangers more than an "emotional" threat to posed to Israel by her hostile neigh­the Israeli peop.le. Furthermore, I bors. Modern Israel. the country and wonder what type of statement Mr. its people that Mr. Vallely labels Valley is making about 19th-century "rebellious and demon worshipping," American society when he writes is ono of my homes: it is tho land about the "God-ordored punishment where my father was born; it is the of captivity" (i.e. the enslavement of' land where my mother's parents, the Ancient Israelites in Egypt). weary refugees from Nazi Germany, Surely he is not complying with what emigrated after World War Two; it is Fr. Malloy refers to as tlrn "deep the land that my uncle died defending Christian commitment to the pursuit in the 1967 war (the Six-Day War); it of truth, which in faith is seen as con­is the land where my grandmothers, nected to the search for the living my uncle and aunt, and my many God." cousins live; it is the land in which I and my parents lived until we perma­Edna Ruth Yahil, nently moved to New York,in 1977. graduate student, history But Israel is more than that: Eretz' January 19, 1999 
§c


O
THE 
page 10 -----------------Monday,January 25, 1999 
BSERVER 


Shakespearean tradition wins in '90s 
still holds true to the peri­
od in which the story was meant to take place. "Shakespeare In Love" 

"Shakespeare in Love" 
Director: John Madden 
is the story of a struggling playwright needing to

Starring: Joseph Fiennes, Gwyneth 
write a play. The play­

Paltrow, Judi Dench, Ben Affleck 
wright is William 
Shakespeare and the play turns out to be "Romeo and Juliet." 
and Geoffrey Rush 
.;:.t . .• '" 


We follow the Bard,
iiJtf. 'J -'l) ·~ 
played by Joseph Fiennes, 

(Out offive shamrocks) ByJOE LARSON 
Scene Movie Critic 
Being the academically inclined stu­dent body we arc here at Notre Dame, you would think that everyone would be giddy with excitement about anything having to do with William Shakespeare, even if it is a fictional movie with Gwyneth Paltrow and Ben Aflleck. 
I know most of you out there would rather watch a documentary or a biogra­phy of the world's most famous writer, but I guess you will just have to settle for one of the most creative and well-written plots ever seen in a movie. If ever there was something that could demolish all the fear that goes along with the thought of actually reading Shakespeare, it is the film "Shakespeare in Love." 
We've all, at one time or another, seen a Shakespearean movie and felt like we couldn't completely understand the lan­guage or relate to characters in.such an ancient setting. Even the recent "William Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet," which was an attempt to bring the timeless tragedy up-to-date, seemed lacking in many ways -for instance, Romeo is not Leonardo DiCaprio with a gun and a Hawaiian shirt 
"Shakespeare In Love" is the first Shakespearean movie l've seen where I actually wanted to read Shakespeare after I saw it It makes the classic story understandable for a '90s audience, hut 

10th Annual Student Film Festival 
Featuring films by students of the Department of Film, Television and 
Theater 


(Out offive shamrocks) 
By VAN GILES 
Scene Movie Critic 
This past Friday and Saturday the Department of Film, Television and Theatre held the 10th annual Notre 
Dame Student Film Festival at the Snite Museum. There were two screenings each night, with a sell-out at each screening. The production is a compilation of 16 short films ranging l'rom two to 14 minutes. The show had a Lota! running time of' 98 minutes. 
Before the screening, the audi­ence was treated to a verbal introduction to the shorl<; by the head instructor of the depart­ment, Jill Goodwin. A brief but highly enjoyable segment about Lhe history of the N.D. Student Film Festival opened the festival. The crowd was in hysterics over this portion as it represented the best student films of the past years. 
on his journey through writing the best play in 
the history of 


plays. Jf you've inspirnd h.v love to create one ever read "Homeo and Juliet," or tlw gn•,r lust works of litera­which I'm guessing most of ture wrill1:11. you have, you know that it is (Hhnr supporting actors an incredibly powerful love includl• Bl'l1 Afllcck as an ego­story with a painfully tragic tistica I actor and friend of ending. After reading it, you Shak1's1wnrn. J\lso, Geoffrey have to wonder what would Hush ("'Slti111•') plays a nervous inspire such an incredible tlinatrP i:ot11pa11y ownfff whose play. · That's what thealr1: l1,1s jusl stumbled "Shakespeare In Love" tries to upon ,1 111ast1:rpioce that will explain. bP ro1111·1111lnrnd for all time. 
It was fascinating to watch "Slrnk1!SIH'arn In Love" is not the occurrences in just a p1•riod piece about Shakespeare's life which cor­Victorian limns. nither. This is related to "Romeo and Juliet." a grl'n l lovl' slnry. If you are If you've ever tried to write scarnd off by all the "arts" and something creative and taken "thous," vou will still be mes­ideas from your own life, you merizr•d ·1i.1· the plotline that know you need something you gracP1'1ill~, placns two people care about if you're going to togdlwr and tlwn mercilessly write anything good. In wrenclws U1nm apart. "Shakespeare In Love," the EV<)ll ii' you know nothing inspiration is Viola De Lessups, about Shabis1ware, you will played by Gwyneth Paltrow, an be abl1• lo «ppi·edate the story aristocratic woman who has or two slar-crossed lovers and 
Photo courtesy of Miramax
been promised to another lheir q 111·st to find happiness
Gwyneth Paltrow (left) and Joseph Fiennes star in "Shakespeare in
man. She. disguised as a boy, and a pla1·P for <)ach other in
Love."
auditions for a part in Shakespeare's new play, and gets it. 
Well, our playwright figures out Viola's secret and falls in love with her. From his affair with Viola he gets the inspira­tion to turn his teetering play in to "Romeo and Juliet" 
Paltrow is absolutely spellbinding in a 
The opening film, "We Walk Out of Our House," was a seven-minute short piece that followed an ordinary businessman from his house to his job. The piece showed the way things could be and the way things are. "Fish Story" was a clever film about human nature. Shot in black and white, we see a well-dressed man (played by Aaron Osland) fishing off a bridge. Before long he is caught on & line, as a fish would be on his 
line, and the audience is given a clever message to ponder. 
"Moment" is a truly imaginative movie directed by Ryan Lutterbach and Shakti Chopra and shot in BetaSP. Marie up of photograph stills, the audience is able to 


Pholo couMsy of Department of Film, Tel~vision and Theater 

Pictured above is a scene from the pointless film, "Incomplete Film about Abuse." 
part that had to bo perfect. Sho had to be the type of woman that could inspirn something as powerful as "Homeo and Juliet." She was the perl'cct mix of beau­ty, intelligence and humor. After watch­ing this movie, it's not hard to und1•r­stand how a woman like her charact,ir could inspire a love story so powerful. II' you don't believe an 18-year old guy that Gwyneth Paltrow is amazing, maybe you should consider that she is highly toutNI for a Best Actress nod at the "Academy Awards." · 
In fact, "Shakespeare In Love" is a front-runner for earning the most Oscar 
nominations this year. Director John Madden was nominated .last year for "Mrs. Brown" and will probably receive another nomination here. Tom Stoppard and Marc Norman also should get a nomination for their thought-provoking and original screenplay. "Shakespeare In their liv1:~. Dons this mean 
that "Ho11wo and Juliet" and "Shakc1spParn I11 l.ov1i.. f'ollow similar plotli1ws'! I can't t1•ll you that. You'll just have to go s<H' 1lu• movie yourself. I promis1• you will not lln disappointed. 
In fact, you may ,·vnn find yourself heading over to tlw library and checking out ShakespParn1111 plays to read, for fun. 

Film Festival had highs and lows ... 
read the thoughts of the expressive faces in the pictures. Every character has a thought and it leads to a truly humorous experience about all the opinions people have, if only for a moment 
"Incomplete Film about Abuse" Love" is also a sl111n-ii1 for nominations in art dirnction alHI ,·osl 1111rns. 
Another potPrllial nomination for Best Supporting i\rlr•·ss ('()llld go to Dame Judi Dond1 for l11•r sl'Plll'-sllialing por­trayal of' Q11nen Lliznlll'th. Shn looks like sh;\ lwlongs in "S!.;1r Trnk" with the ridiculous mak<•up ,111tl outlits she wears, hut slrn dPlivers in ('Vnry scrne where slw app(:ars. 
Fi,~nncs has ;in uutsidc shot at a nomi­nation for his dPpi1:t ion or till' overly neu­rotic and lov1!-strkknn Bard. Even though his Oscar hyp,~ is1d quite the same as l'altrow·s. he docs deliver a 
gnmt p,•rl'ormance of a man 

"National Pasti,111'" was another black and whit,, shorl shol in 16 millimeter, showing thn i11111•1· child ol' an older gen­tleman whosP cl;11 s 011 thn baseball field of' dreams can oi°ily )Jc, rncalled through 
was just that -completely incom­plete. It recorded the point of view of a pre-pubescent boy and his outlook on his two abusive par­ents. 
"Ramona's Roses" was a delight­fully clever short film about a cou­ple of small con gritters and their irresistibility. Shot in Super 8 and directed by Tom Hartmann, this film was a big crowd favorite. The student film-makers captivated the attention of its audience as every­one laughed hysterically. 
"The Seeds" had an opening that looked promising but unfortunate­ly faded off into an ending that 
Photo courtesy of Depar1ment pt Film, Telavismn and Theater could not be grasped. The finale to the Student Film Festival was Jeff 
"Libido," directed hy Pete Byrne Spoonhower's and Denis Hurley's mockumentary, and Jamie Eerzai, was another hit "Ryan Victor's Senior Thesis." 
his mnmorics and imagination. 
The f'inal and lo11gPst l'ilrn, "Ryan Victor's Senior ThPsis·· portrays a r.ornical interview with a stucl<int film-maker. Directed by Jeff Spoonlwwcr and Denis l111rlev. we s<ie Uw actor/ dirnctor's comi­cal m;look on roo1n.it(~S. bathrooms, love and relationships. 
The film festival was a great night out, and a cheap wa~1 to smi the hardwork and dndication ol' N.D 's film students. 
The encore and !i,ml showing is tonight at 7:30 p.tn, Tlw 11th annual Student rilm rcstival will Lak<! place, of course, next year. Make your plans now! 

as it showed the simplistic and childish behavior oftwo middle-aged gen­tlemen involved in a most serious game of chess. 
"We Apologize" was the '90s takeoff of an ancient Greek tragedy that left some­thing to be desired. Ben Savage's "Minimum Wage Wrangler" was a hilari­ous film about a Meijer employee who loves his work so much that he will dra­matic:ally do anything to take care of tho shopping carts he is sworn to protect. 
"Big White Box" is an amusing piece about the seriosness surrounding rcc­sports, especially raquetball at the Knute Rockne Gym. 

Sc 11e ­
Monday, January 25, 1999 ------------------Oa~fRVER -----------------------page 11 






¦ VIDEO GAME PICK OF THE WEEK 
Last year's \.-est-selling football video gi)Jlle is back! . 
By C.R. TEODORO 
Scene Writer 
For those enthusiastic !'ans who are into NFL Football from the seats of their own rooms, you can now nxp11ri­nnce tlrn NFL all yoar long. Last year's hr.st selling sports gamn has come hack with a new vnrsion for 1999. and the results aro nol disuppointing. 
Heel Zonn lntnractivc Inc. and 989 Studios have developed NFL GameDay 99, a football game for the Playstation and PC that rivals otlrnr football games such as Madden Nfl, 99, NFL Xtreme and NF/, /Jlitz. Though it may not have the llair as arcade gamns Xtreme and IJlilz, it more than makes up for it in rnalism and suporior game play. 
Even if you are not a sports video fanatic, you can still find the game worth your money to play in your dorm room with all your buds. With Multi Tap adaptahility, up to eight players can play at the same time. Even though this could dt~linitely mean very chaotic gamnplay, 
your frionds do not 
Rushing has befrn havn to wait for your toned clown from the game lo be ovnr·to previous game, but play. with practice and use 
/\II the teams, of special moves like updai('{( slarliums and sidestepping you can ovnr !iOO plays are go all the way run­includPd in this gam1?, ning the ball. Defense adding an individual is also good and easy realism to the gamo to learn by simply no matter who. where picking up the con-or what you play. 
Photocourtesyot9B9Studios troller. Again, prac­Offensivn and defon­GameDay 99 looks to dominate lice and time help sive sclrnmes dosignnd the video game market in 1999 as develop the mastery 
and usnd by ma! NFL it did in 1998. play11rs am at your control to usu and abuse your opponent. Even in the sea­son modn, records for both teams and individuals arc kept and maintained throughout the whole season. Options f"or tho woathnr can bo chosen to affect gameplay. The injuries option during play can also put in an additional sense of' risk 
Tim graphics of GamelJay 99 were realistically made from the motion capture of All-Pro athletes. Lif'clike dntail was att1mdm! to in the making of" this game. The motions of the players arP very fluid and details can be seen clnarly such as names and numbers on uniforms. Ev,m tlrn helmets are well done. Subtle details around tho playing 
¦ Now ON Vmeo 
Smoke Signals Buffalo '66 

Mafia! 
Return to Paradise 
Source: Hollywood.com 
, of all the techniques 
available. 

There arP a few problems evident in this video game, but these are mostly from a technical view than from a gameplay view. Players can sometimes occupy the same space, allowing you to run through one of your own teammates. 
Overall, you could play this game for hours on end. This is definitely a sports game to get for the Playstation in your section's quad where everyone one can get a piece of the action. Superior gameplay, excellence graph­ics, NPL realism and 1won tho cheer­leader reward at the end of the game make NFL Gamenay 99 a contender this year against all other football video games. 
Anne 1-leche (left) · stars in the dramat­ic thriller "Return to Paradise," now on video, with Vince Vaughn and · 
Joaquin Phoenix. Alsqreceritry released Is the mafia movie spoof "Mafia," starring Leslie Nielson. 
Playstation PC 
Creators: 989 Studios Red Zone Interactive 

field just acid tu the feel of an actual NFL stadium. 
Audio effects are well done in the game, from the crunch of the·tackle to the cheering of the crowds. Even the color commentary from the recorded voices of Dick Enberg and Phil Simms add to the television style presentation. Of course, the commentators do get a bit annoying after a while, hut that is easily remedied by simply hitting tho on button of your stereo system. 
GameDa!J 99 arguably can boast of its superior game control over other football games. Depending on your skill level, you can use the simulation option or go !'or total control. Spins, stiff-arms, shoulder charges, hurdling, diving tackles and jumping deflections are just some of the things you are capable of doing. Passing is no prob­lem in this game, even maybe a little too easy. A strong passing game makes an extremely difficult challenge to the defender, since the receivers snem to catch almost anything and' du not drop 
the ball often. 

¦ CHART-TOPPERS 
"Varsity Blues" 
made it to the head 
of the class for the 
second straight 
week, beating out 
newcomer "Gloria," 
which grossed a 
meager $2.1 mil­
lion. James Van 
Der Beek, of 
"Dawson's Creek" 
fame, is the star of 
this coming-of-age 
lootball drama. 


Movie Title 
1. 
Varsity Blues 

2. 
Patch Adams 

3. 
A Civil Action 

4. 
The Thin Red Line 

5. 
Stepmom 

6. 
At First Sight 

7. 
You've Got Mail 

8. 
The 'Prince of Egypt 


8. Shakespeare in Love 
10. A Simple Plan 
Source: Associated Press 
Gross Sales 
$ 10.6 million $ 8.1 million $ 7.6 million $ 5.8 million $ 5.2 million $ 4.9 million $ 4.2 million $ 3.6 million $ 3.6 million $ 3.4 million 



Movie Title 
1. The Negotiator 
Z. Lethal Weapon 4 
3. 
Blade 

4. 
The Mask of Zorro 

5. 
Six Days, Seven Nights 

6. 
Dr. Dolittle 

7. 
Armageddon 

8. 
Out of Sight 

9. 
Sliding Doors 

10. 
The Avengers 


Source: Billboard 

Movie Title 
1. 
Armageddon 

2. 
The Wedding Singer 

3. 
Dr. Dolittle 

4. 
The Mask of Zorro 

5. 
Titanic 

6. 
Austin Powers 

7. 
The Parent Trap 

8. 
The Lion King II 

9. 
Good Will Hunting 

10. 
'N The Mix With 'N Sync 


Source: Associated Press 
page 12 The Observer• SPORTS 

The Observer/Kevin Dalum Despite suffering an injury in the first half, sophomore Kelly Siemon contributed three points and three rebounds in Notre Dame's win over St. John's, 99-60. 

¦ SPORTS BRIEFS 

JAZZ DANCE -Come to the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center Activity Room 2 to get more information. Classes will meet Saturdays fi'Qn:t 12:30-2 p.m. anp_.',f.µ~s(la:ysfrqrn .7:41,: 9 p.m.· .cost•isV~~Q/:Il,r.n•acli:Hito
informatiP.n, pl · .. ntactaecs · 
at 1-6100, ···· · · ··. SWING DANCE"······· Alllevelsare w come fot this S~pjestetlon.g coµrS that meets on Wednesdays from 6:30• 8 p.m. in RSRC,Aetivity Room 2.To 
find out more, p)tlase attend theinfor-· mation meeting being heid at 6:30 :, 
p.m. on Wedn · · e RSRC. for· the .class .is ed to· the first, 



8-Ball 
continued from page 20 
their season high, set previously in an 82-64 win against Toledo. McMillen led the barrage from downtown, going 6­for-15 in the game. McMillen was the only Irish player to play more than 30 minutes and, along with Green, earned a game-leading 20 points. 
"Anytime a team plays zone, its great for shooters," said McMillen on her chances for treys. "I got a lot of great looks tonight, even though I missed a lot of open shots." 
The best look of the game was the one the Irish got from its two fresh­men, who finished in the double-digits and had career games. Haney got the call off the bench early on in the game after starting forward Kelley Siemon suffered an ankle injury that limited her to just six minutes in the second half. 
Haney helped fill the inside game with the limited playing time of Siemon and Riley, who also played just six minutes in the second half. Haney answered with a career-high 16 points and a game-leading nine boards. 
Hills finished with equally impressive statistics in her 28 minutes of play, shooting a solid 3-of-5 from three­point range and 3-for-6 shooting from the floor. The adped depth has given McGraw a nearly endless supply of points in recent games. 
"Both of our freshmen coming in with double figures -that's a key for us," said McGraw. "We need to have that kind of production off the bench." 
Tynisha Myles started the game strong for the Red Storm, leading her team in the first half with 10 points, including the first two baskets for SL John's before the Irish pulled off their 10-0 run. Despite closing to within seven points with 9:17 left in the half on a layup by Myles, Notre Dame head­ed to the locker room with a 16-point 

Monday, January 25, 1999 
lead. 
Things went sour in the second as Myles was held to just three points and the Irish kicked things off with an 11-0 run to go up 60-36 behind two three­pointers by McMillen. They took their biggest lead of the game minutes later on a 14-0 drive that made it an 86-47 game with 6:23 left in the game. Hills made it a 39-point lead with just over five seconds left on a thrne-pointer from way past the line. 
Though unsuccessful in using the zone to stop the Irish. McGraw's team was able to turn the tables and get near-perfect results for her own defense. The Red Storm finished shoot­ing just 39 percent from the field in a game in which their leading scorer, Ebony Dickinson, was held in check. Averaging 19.2 points per conference game, she had just seven poinls Saturday night. 
"Ebony never got the same opportu­nities," said Thomas-Swinson. "They did a very good job of rallying her. of trapping her Aver time she received the ball on the wing. Its unfortunate because Ebony has had some very good games; she just couldn't get out of the funk of not being able to per­form as she usually does." 
Latasha Thompson led St. John's in scoring with 15 points, while Cristina Jorif, who registered 32 minutes off the bench, tallied 11 total points. 
The recent Irish surge in the Big East, as well as Connecticut's loss, has returned the Irish as contenders for the conference lead while also adding a new team Lo the fight !'or the top spot, something that McGraw knows will make the climb more difficult. 
"[Boston College's win over Connecticut] really helps Boston College, obviously, but they're just one game behind us in the standings," she said. "So it puts a little more pressure on us. Had Connecticut won, we would have had breathing room in third place. Certainly that remains our goal, to win the Big East." 

See tomorrow's Observer for full coverage of fencing and women's tennis. 


that register. If you hay.~ any ques­. liqp.i;, please contact ·Rec~pdrts. at 1­
61 . 

ter long c<>tj:rsg meets on Sunday 2 4 p. > ·· ay 7:45 -9 
5. Pointe wi 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND 9910. the bride wore her DRESS to the sifieds? SPRING BREAK 991 8,6,4,3,BEDROOM 2773097 'Backer. I mean, that thing's never
NOTICES 

Cancun • Nassau • Jamaica NEW Rates Phone Cards gonna recover. Nope. 
Travel Free and make lots of HOUSE FOR RENT 282 min.$20 call 258-4805 Spring Break Bahamas Party Cash!Top reps are offered on·site 5 bedrooms, 2 baths, dishwasher, Oh Jet, if only we'd met sooner. The more Bruno's the better. Cruise'5Nights $279!1ncludes staff jobs.All-Inclusive washer/dryer, safe neighborhood Apple Multiple Scan 15" Meals & Free Parties!Awesome Deals.Special Discounts up to $100 close to campus, alarm system. Monitor: $100.00 Who's my little muttin? Jason's my This classified goes to that certain Beaches,Nightlife!Departs From per person.Lowest price central air, large living area, fenced Call Kelly, 4-3465 little muffin. some with the freckled head that Florida!Cancun & Jamaica $399! Guaranteed.Call now for details! yard, wood floors, one large oriental wear's cheap track pants. Now you springbreaktravel.com www.classtravel.com rug, $1100/mo. Call Bill @675-Thank you for being so nice lately are one of the chosen few who 
TICKETS·
1-800-678-6386 800/838-6411 0776, and putting up with all my silly have made it in. 
mood swings and attitudes. But Spring Break Panama City Piano Trumpet Sax Guitar & Bass NEED 4 TICKETS TO more importantly. thank you for the Nothings better than a Reeker's $129!Boardwalk Room w/Kitchen Players for Shenanigans Band-for 3 bdrm. duplex. remodeled, 501 ND/MICH. HOCKEY GAME ice cream. pizza after Saturday night outings! Next To Clubs!? Parties-Free 3 big shows and optional spring Eddy St. 1 mi. from campus. PLEASE CALL 4-3441 Drinks'Daytona $149!Sou!h Beach break tour. Appliances, w/d. I don't mean to embarass you, but I love toasty bonfires on the stoops $129!Cocoa Beach $149! Call Meg at 4-2573. 273-8332. you're so darn cute I just can't help of dorms. springbreaktraveLcom it. 1-800-678-6386 '99-'00 LOADED!6 Bedrm. $800 BOB DYlAN 1st 5 ROWS My new hobby is doing laps around 
FOR RENT 
mo. 273-0482/234-3831 WWF. RINGSIDE 1st. 10 rows I think I'm making it worse. Main Circle while singing to the Two autistic children need students 272-7233. Proclaimers. lo work with them doing behavioral HOUSE FOR RENT. 5 or 6 Bed Rm Furnished House Sarah, if you make it worse, you get therapy. Training provided. Call TWO BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. 333 N. Hill St. Sec Syst., Wash/Dry no more ice cream. And that Be alert! He is coming in less than Pam@ 273-2761. 4-5 BR. Available June for 233-9947 .means I can't share any. So will two weeks. The man from Down 
Summer, August for Fall. you just please prioritize my needs? Under is making his US debut. His Dishwasher, Washer/Dryer, Full tour of the Michiana region will last 
FOR SALE Il'=P=ER=S=O=NAL=--­
Basement, Large Backyard and Off And by the way. lw ould definitely two weeks. Maybe you will see him

WANTED 

.. 
Street Parking. MONITORED wear my wedding dress to the If you are special enoughll
-----------B, 
SECURITY SYSTEM INCLUDED. Beautiful brass bed.queen size.with So do you like Deuce better now? 'Backer. It's not like I'd ever wear it SALES & MARKETING CAii 289-4712. orthopedic mattress set and deluxe Oh well, there is always more fish in again. I know that I am special enough! 
INTERNSHIPS frame.New.never used.still in plas­the sea. University Directories offers WALK TO SCHOOL tic.$225 -M Well, I'm gonna HAVE my wedding Who knew that when 1·needed it paid,fuJl-time summer sales and 2-6 BEDROOM 219-862-4043 at the 'B.acker. It's a holy place. most, there would be a Real World marketing internships.open lo all STARTING $185 But I'll take you all in a darts tourna­Marathon. disciplines.College credit avail­MONTH/PERSON ment.. The guy with the mustache can pre· 
-
able.Training program.Great 232-2595 For sale: Digitec/l RP'-20 side over it while he cooks every­Nothing like finishing these up so 
resume booster! 1(800)743-5556 or  guitar lloor pre-amp/effects proces- Will you be my teletubby  one some fat burgers.  early  
www.universitydirectories.com  sor. Ex. condition, only 1 year old.  
NtCE HOMES FOR NEXT  $350 o b.o. Call Brendan at 287­ Ok. but I'll never understand why  Sarah, do you have any more c1a·s­ 

~---------------­
page 13

Monday, January 2'i. ! ti')') The nh,t"rver • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Abortion, euthanasia and capital 



punishment demean the lives of 
countless individuals in our society. Gather with us in Eucharistic Adoration to pra-y: for an end 

to the culture of death. 
it 

"I 111alle a holy hour each day in the presence of Jesus in the Blessed Sacrament. All my sisters of the Missionaries of Charity make a daily holy hour as well, because we find that through our daily holy hour our love for Jesus becomes more intimate, our love for each other more understanding, and our love for t1ze poor more compassionate ... " 

-Mother Teresa 
... ·!,... 
".·-;-.;.. <·; ·.~ .. 


Sponsored by Notre Dame Right 10 Life AM l)G • JMI 
Jesus is here with us in the Eucharist to give us answers-answers that will lead us to truth, happiness and peace. In this culture of 
death, it is easy for people to become weary and indifferent to God and His gift of life. People often fall .short of their obligation to care 
for and nurture the spiritual and physical lives of themselves and oth­ers. Eucharistic Adoration gives a person the opportunity to nurture his own spiritual life, as well as the spiritual lives of others {through prayer for them.) Prayer also protects the physical 
lives of those endangered by abortion, euthanasia and 
other forms of violence. It is orily through the grace which 
comc,::s-from prayer that others' hearts can be changed from seeking death to loving life. Christ gives us the strength to press on in our battle for life. In order to be Christ-like in our service 
to preserve life, we must be filled with His life through prayer. 
We ask you to join us in prayer for life at Eucharistic Adoration. 
What is Eucharistic Adoration? 
God is present to us in many ways in our. world, but He is especially present to us in the Eucharist. As Roman Catholics, we believe that Jesus Christ, who lived 2000 years ago, is truly present in the Eucharist. In Eucharistic Adoration, the Host is placed in a monstrance, in order for us to be able to come and pray. Jesus is always hidden in the tabernacle, but in adoration He is exposed so that we can come and kneel before Him, face to face, and speak with God. When Jesus is exposed like this, lie can never be left alone. Thus, people sign up to be responsible to come and pray with Him for a certain amount of time (usually ½-1 hour) every week. 
Why should I go? 
If Jesus were to come to the JACC, wouldn't you come and stand in line for hours just 
to talk to Him for a minute? Even if you weren't Christian, wouldn't you be at least 
interested in this God so many people talk about? Well, Jesus is truly present here on · campus-in the Eucharist. IN ADORATION YOU HAVE THE OPPORTUNl1Y TO GO 
AND SPEAK WITH GOD FACE TO FACE. You can confide in Him, plead with Him, 
question Him. And if you sit quietly enough, He will inspire you with answers. 
What do I do when I am there? 
When you .enter the chapel, you should genuflect as a sign of reverence to Jesus. It is 
common pri}ctice during Adoration to genuflect on two knees, instead of just one 
(like you do whenever you enter a chapel.) You can stand, sit, or kneel-whatever 
helps you pray. And then you pray. There are many ways to pray: you can do spiritual 
reading; you can pray a rosary; you can sit in silence; you can even just talk to Jesus­
like you would to a friend. The most important thing is that you love Him and allow 
Him to love and strengthen you. 
What does the Church think? ­
"Exposition of tlle Blesseµ Sacrament, whether in apyx or a monstrance, is a recognition of the wondrous Presence of Christ in the sacrament and stimulates us to unite ourselves ID Him in a spiritual communion. It is, accordingly, eminently in harmony with the worship which we owe Him in spirit and truth ... # 
-l'ost.Conciliar (Vatican 11) Document, S.C.D.W. 
EUCHARISTIC ADORATION ON CAMPUS: 
FRIDAY: Blessed Mary Chapel in the Basilica: 12:00pm (following 11:30am Mass) -5:00pm with a Rosary beginning at 4: lSpm. (Ends with Benediction at 4:45pm) 
MONDAY beginning at 11:30pm (following 11 :OOpm Mass) through TUESDAY at 10:00pm (Ending with Benedict(on at 9:45-10:00pm) In Fisher Hall Chapel. 
-
page 14 The Observer• SPORTS Monday, January 25, 1999 
Bagne converted into his first Any momentum Not.re Dame which Palmer converted into his opportunities. goal of the season with 10 min­had at the beginning of the sec­first goal of the season. Despite the long road trip, the


Hockey 

utes to go. The goal gave Notre ond period was washed away as The third period began with team made ·no excuses for its Dame a 3-1 lead. the Lakers regained the lead the Irish down 3-1 following a losses. Molina stated that fatigue
continued from page 20 

But the win was not to be, as only 1:20 after Simon's goal tied late second-period goal from for­was not a factor. 
the Wildcats' hard work eventu­slot. The pass went straight to ally paid off. Team captain Leethe oncoming Ryan Dolder, who 
Ruff and sophomore Fredput the puck past goaltender 
Mattersdorfer each scored goalsDan Ragusett for his third goal of in a 37 second span with underthe year, giving the Irish a quick 
five minutes to go to tie the game2-0 lead. 
at three. At game's end, the IrishFollowing two periods of play had been outshot 33-30.
Notre Dame held that 2-0 lead Despite losing the lead, thehut got outplayed by a fast-skat­team remained unbeaten in their 

ing Northern Michigan team. 

last six games. However, theShots were even at 21 following road tie was not good enough. 
two periods with the Wildcats "You can never be satisfiedfailing to take advantage of sev­with tying,'' said Molina. "You

eral scoring opportunities. 

always want to win games, espe­.Junior defonseman Sean Molina cially in conference. We knowcommented that the game was we're capable of winning anyimportant to the Wildcats, who game we play in this conference, need to gain ground quickly if especially when we're playing inthey are to earn the home ice Lhe third period with a 3-1 lead."
advantage in the playoffs. 
Saturday night seemfld to be a"We probably got outworked a replay of the night before', onlylittle bit duwn in the corners," 

this time 1.he roles were
Molina said. "They were a des­reversed. The Irish skated circles perate team." 

around the Lakers in the first
In the third period, the 

period but were unable to cleanWildcats finally broke through 
up on rebounds down low. At the
on their sixth power play of the end of the first period, Notrenight. Freshman Chad Theuer 

Dame actually found itself
capitalized on great passes from 

behind 1-0 on a shorthanded
teammates J.P. Vigier and Roger 

goal by freshman Jeremy
Trudeau for his fifth goal of the Bachusz. The shorthander wasyear. 

just the third one given up by theAfter being out-skated for the 
Irish this season.
next few minutes, Ryan Dolder 
Early in the second period,
made the play that seemingly things sc,mrnd to turn around.

sealed the galJ!e. Dolder forced a Just 29 seconds in, Ben Simon

turnover in center ice and put a backhander past goal­

brought the puck in with speed tender Mike Brusseau to tie theon the right -Wing. He then slid a game at 1-1.

p~~s in front which junior Troy 

WantA Challenge? 
OFFICER TRAINING SCHOOL 
Start your career off on the right foot by enrolling in the Air Force 
Officer Training School. There you will become a commissioned 
officer in just 12 weeks. From the start you'll enjoy great pay, 
complete medical and dental care, 30 days of vacation each year, 
plus the opportunity to travel and 
AIM HIGH 

see the world. To discover how high 

a career in the Air Force can take 
you, call 1-800-423-USAF, or visit 
our website at www.airforce.com
www.airforce.com 


Summer Service Projects 
. 8 weeks of service learning 
<:tHTtlt FOIi: 

. $1700 tuition scholarship SOCIAL 
-·
CONCERNS 

. Valuable alumni contacts . 3 credits Theology, with possible cross-lists . Over 200 sites across the U.S. a.nd abroad 
January 29th -Application Deadline 
the game. Following a good ward Ben Keup. In Lhe third "You can't be tired this late in offensive chance for the Irish, period Notre Dame squandered the year. We've been skating for junior defcnseman Tyler Palmer two more power play chances in five months and training for six. joined the rush the other way. As the third. The unit, although they It doesn't come down to being the play went to the net, team­had moved the puck well and tired, it comes down to mental mate Tobin Praznik found the created quality scoring chances toughness." streaking Palmer with a pass, all night, failed to score in five 







Attention: 
Want to get involved with Student Government? Looking to make changes? V'Jhy not nm for office?
. 

M3IKBtory mfonra.tional neeting \/Jill m held for all carrlidates interested. in running for student 
Government President/ Vice President 
(O:le nether Eran each ticket llL1St :te present) 
Tuesday, Jan. 26, 7:30 PM\ Student Goverimen.t Office 
(se:x:rn Floor LaFortune) kif QJBSticns? Please cxntact Nicole Borda (Ju:licial Crurx;il VP) at 631-4556 
brought. 

Ten reasons you'll want to worl<. for us. 
1. 
OAK BROOK BANK. with over a billion dollars to permanent assignments in commercial lending, in assets. is already one of the largest and fastest investment management, information technology. growing commercial banks and investment advi­or retail banking. We don't believe in hiring sors in Chicago's west suburbs. Oak Brook Bank people for two or three years. then strongly en­is owned by First Oak Brook Bancshares. Inc., a couraging them to leave for business school. clynamic. publicly-traded company (whose sym­bol is "FOBBA"on NASDAQ). 7. IF YOU WANT TO STUDY for an advanced 

business degree while you work. we can help with 

2. 
CHICAGOLAND IS ONE OFTHE BEST URBAN tuition. In truth. we'd need your full attention dur­AREAS in America to live in. with great apartments ing your first year with us. But. after that. you may at reasonable rents. superb restaurants at afford­apply to any of the many excellent MBA programs able prices, and world-class sports and cultural in the area offering executive MBA programs activities. We even have the Bulls and the Bears nights and weekends. including the world-famous -just like Wall Street. Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern 

University and the University of Chicago. 

3. 
YOU'LL WORK WHERE YOU LIVE. Our clients are nearby. You won't spend four days a week on 8. WE OFFER F1RSf-RATE TRAIJ\'ING. Typically. the road. living out of a suitcase and eating room our management trainees get two or three rota­service food. Travel for us usually means a hop tions in different areas of the bank, with each ro­down the expressway. tation lasting three to six months. so you'll get a 

wide variety of hands-on assignments. We also 

4. 
YOU'LL PUT IN FUll DAYS. and though you'll provide supplementary training in classrooms work hard. you won't have to burn the midnight and seminars. both on and off site. oil every night or give up your whole weekend. So you'll have time to enjoy lifo in a great city. 9. WHILE YOU'RE LEARNING more about 

business intellectually. we help you learn more 

5. 
YOUCANSEEYOURWORKMAKEADIFFER­socially. too. We throw you right in with other ENCE. In a business our size you're always near people-senior officers. new business prospects, the action. so it's easy to see how your efforts con­and customers. And we help you learn how to fos­tribute to results. And you don't have to suffer the ter and manage valuable relationships through frustration of getting lost in a multilayered bu­networking and team building. reaucracy. 

10. IT MAY SURPRISE YOU, bu\ we pay competi­

6. 
WE OFFER CAREERS. not transitional jobs. tive salaries. Surveys tell us we pay like the Our management trainee positions are pathways money center banks. 


If you think you might be interested iu a management trainee position with us, come to our infor­mation session in the Foster Room, Lafortune Student Center, Sunday, January 31, 5:00-6:00 P.M. We'll hold interviews ijouday, February 1-sign up at Nolrc Dame Career and Placement Ser­vices on We,fne11day, January 27. 
FU'8l Oak Brook Bancshares, Inc., 1400 Sixteenth Street, Oak Brook IL 60523, 630-990-BANK (fax 6:i0-571-0519). www.ohb.com. Member FDIC. EOE m/f. 
Monday, January 25, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 15 
back from its lackadaisical effort 
¦ WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
oarly in tho second half.
Game 
Hutg(m;' Hashod Kent went up for an uncontested lay-up and
continued from page 20 
I lickev blasted him across the 

Freshmen key in Irish win 
Hutgnrs also contimwd its hot arms to prevent the free basket. 
shooting from the oul'iidfl in the f'irst half. /\gainst tho Notre Damn zo1w that MacL!\Ocl used sporndkal!y, llw Knighl-. shot (J2 pPrCPnl in 11Hl first hull' from the li,ild and !i-of-7 l'rorn behind the threw-point litw. Clmmr man-to­man dufonsivn prr.ssurn droppC'd both t.lms1l numlwrs signilicantly in tho seeoncl half, allowing Nntni Damn to get hack in Urn ganw. 
"In tlm first ten minutes of' the second half', we lookod like we <licin 'l belong in llw Bi!{ East,· said s<mior Phil llirkcv. who had 
I:3 poinls and 12 rn!J,;unds. "We wern trying-to get Martin. David (Gravos} and Antoni involved atkr a constant l'ffort to get thn h;11l insidn in tho lirst half." 
Notr1; Danrn turned the ball oVl'r six limes in tlw opening minutfis ol' th!' s1icond half, lot-Ling Hulg(irs lo huild a lead. 
1lick<iy might have supplied thn mrnri.,'Y to bring Notrt" Dame
I 

The reforees <:ailed it an inten­tional foul, enabling Rutgers to go up 10 points, but it was a wake-up mil for Hickey and the comeback followed. 
The kind of team chemistry that formed since Troy Murphy's injury two weC'ks ago might prove useful in the upcoming wocks. Tho Notre Damo o!Tcnsc is slow at times, missing their leading scornr and ferocious offensive rebounder. The roturn of Mmphy will give Macleod more points in an offense tbat has bnen pushed into finding new and unusual ways to score. 
"We have improved, and with Troy r.oming back, that is 20 points and 10 rebounds a game -you can't overlook that," said frpshman forward David Graves. "Maybn wn can make Urn NJT. This season is not over yet." 
The roller coaster season con­tinues Wednesday when the Irish travel to Boston College. 

NTERNATIONAL WORKING OPPORTUNITY 
r.----~-~~Bc E~b£~~fi~f=-=-~ 
. 
L...., 
CONVERSATlON SCHOOL 
is seeking university graark1tesforq-91le· 
vear teaching position in Japa11:1i/{ij"t~ct aim)~ benefits and traveloppor.t apam!Se language skills not ri,e~e 
. ·.. sc•tw" 
RECRUITING DATES: February 25 & 26, 1999 at Career and Placement Services. Open to all majors. 
SIGN UPS START FEBRUARY 1st. 
have the game come to me. I
.;..;;;========================~didn't want to force things and 
Building a better tomorrow 
MPI 

. I
... one step at a tzme; 
RESEARCH Job Fair 
Various technical representatives will be on hand to conduct on-the-spot interviews at the Radisson Plaza Hotel in Kalamazoo January 30th from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. 
Opportunities exist for both entry-level and experienced staff in the following areas: 
Reseorch Technicians --Toxicology and Pathology Maintenance 
Administrative Support 
MPI works to preserve the safety of the products you buy, the foods you eat, and the medications which improve the quality of your life. We contract with government agencies and private compa­nies to develop Ii Fe-sustaining drugs, better food preservatives, safer agricultural chemicals and many more products whose development you wou I dn 't even suspects we were involved in bul we wcri!. 
Be part or the team building a better tomorrow. EOE 
Comprehensive Benefits and Bonus Program 
Hills and Haney form dynamic duo for Notre Dame 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Assistant Sports Edicor 

On a ninth-ranked team, it is rare to find two freshmen log­ging the second-and third-most minutes on the court. 
But in Saturday's 99-60 blowout victory, Notre Dame fans saw just that, as freshmen Ericka Haney and Sherisha llills had a chance to showcase their talent. 
"Both of our freshmen com­ing in with double figures ­that's a key for us," head coach Mulfet McGraw said. "We need to have that kind ol' production off the bench. Sherisha and Ericka did an excellent job." 
Haney had a career night, coming just one rebound short of her first career double-dou­ble. 
"F.ricka had a grnat game on the boards and she scored," McGraw said. "She played well on both ends of the floor." 
Haney, who is averaging 5.2 points per game, had 16 points on 7-of-10 shooting and pulled down nine rebounds while playing 28 minutes. 
"This game I kind of raised my level of confidence and lis­tened to the coach," said Haney, who had three assists and four steals while commit­ting just one turnover. "I want­ed to slow things down and 

The 0bser,or/Jelf Hsu Sherisha Hills (11) and Ericka Haney (3) logged the second and third most playing team for Notre Dame in its trouncing of St. John's, 99-60. 
I think that helped." 
Hills, Haney's freshman coun­terpart, was another one of the six Irish players to score in double digits. 
"When we came in Coach McGraw said we (she and Haney] were going to get opportunities to play," Hills said. "Ericka and I talked about it and we said that whenever we get in there, we are going to go out and play our best." 
I-lills was held scoreless in the first half, but came out strong in the second and finished with 13 points. 
"J started off really slow, but I tried to stay positive and every­thing," Hills said. "When I came out in the second half, l said I was going to do the little things and play defense and that led to offense. I caught lire in the second half." 
All three of her field goals 
came from three-point range. The freshman was also 4-ol'-5 from the free-throw line and had four rebounds and four steals. 
"I just came in and tried to play hard," Jlills said. "I go out every day and work as hard as I can to get better." 
McGraw's two freshmen recruits will continue to get better and could be the differ­ence in how Notre Dame Iinish­cs out the year. 
Boston College's upset victory over Big East leader UConn mixed things up in the conf'er­once and the Irish may have a chance to at least tie for the conference championship as the regular season winds down in less than a month. 
Haney and Hills hope to be big-time contributors down the stretch and during their next three years under the Dome. 


Tim S1•:M1NAR 
• 
Scrvirc-lcarning tl1mugh various siles in Appalachia March 6/7-11, 1999 

• 
One credit Tl,cology course 

• 
l11volve.s oricnlalion & follow-up classes 

• 
Pasl participanl;i; in Appalachia Seminar are encouraged to 


The /\ppalachii1 Seminar during Fall and Spring hreak presents a unique scrvi~e­lcarning opportunity. Slla.lents travel to a variety of sites in Appalachi,1 wlucl1 focus on. issuCs concerning run,I health cme, the environment. wo111cn, children. and houStng construction. Through hands on work and person-lo-person contacls. students experience the cultural 1ich11css uf !he nrcu anJ begin lO u"'lers1:111d amt nnaly1.e the soc,nl forces 1ha1 inlluencc lhc Appalachian people. 
Aa•PUCATIONS 
Avnil.,hle 111 the Center for Social Cm1cerns ()uc date: Thursday, Januury 2K. I 999 -I0:00 am $40 deposit with application (non-refundable if 
arccpled) 
Frnn1rn11 INFORMATION 
Tm11 Kilwy, Studenl 'fosk Foret Co-Chniipcrson, 271-11/0 I Snrah Kolnsn. Stutlcnl Task Force C11 Chni,pcrson, h.14-2892 
· R:td1d Tomas Morgnn. Se111i11n1 Coonlinator. 1-5293 
-


Save Big on Mac & Windows Software! 
Please recycle 

Notre Dame Students and Faculty receive up to 75°·~ off retail prices on all software. 
-
The Observer 

Call Now for FREE delivery on all orders until 1 /29/99! ADW 1-800-333-8571 

---,­

-
-
You're starting anew phase ofyour life. And people are telling you it's time to choose. Choose acompany, choose alifestyle, choose a path. All with the implication that you might have to leave a little something ofyourselfbehind. 
But at M1S, we believe that you shouldn't have to choose between who you are and what you do. Our work environ­ment encourages employees to pursue outside interests and activities. Projects are geared to keep you constantly chal­lenged, motivated and excited in your job. And, you'll play an integral part in defining strategy and seeing it imple­mented in a variety offur-moving industries. 
We aren't the only ones who think it's great here. Magazines like FORTUNE Cornputerworldand Working Mather agree: we've appeared on each of their "Best Places to Work" list over the past several years. So when people say that you have to choose between having fun and having a future, tell them you don't have to. Because you're choosing AMS. 
Interested in Consulting? FuJl-Time & Internship Resume Drop 

January 25 & 26, 1999 
at the Career Center. 
On Campus Interviews 
February 17, 1999. 
For more information, write to: American Management Systems, Corporate Recruiting Program, 4050 Legato Road, Fairfax, VA 22033. Or e-mail us: ams_recruiting@mail.amsinc.com. 
ams 

A GREAT PLACE 

AMS is committed to excellence in the workplace and to the policy of equal opportunity. : 
-----------------------~--------­
__;__________________________________________________________;:____
Monday, January 25, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 17 
¦ IRISH INSIGHT 


Men's hoops hopeful despite Saturday's heartbreaker 

The Keough Institute for Irish Studies 

NEW COURSE FOR SPRING 1999 
Ireland: Kingdom and Colony, 1534-1801 
Instructor: Professor Thomas Bartlett 
IRST 326/526 
HIST 326 ND 326A 
3/16/99 TO 4/28/99 
3 CREDIT HOURS 

This course offers an introduction to the major themes in Irish political and 
religious history between creation ofthe kingdom oflreland in 1534 and the enactment ofthe Act of Union in 1801. Particular emphasis will be placed on issues of identity among the various peoples on the island oflreland, and Ireland's role within the expanding British empire will also be discussed. The aim ofthe course is to introduce students to the major problems ofthe period, and to familiarize them with the most recent writings on these problems, 
The class meets three times a week, on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, from 4:00-6:00 p.m. 
A course packet will include the following: N,P, Canny, Reformation to Restoration, Ireland, 1534 to 1660 David Dickson, New Foundations: Ireland, 1660 to 1800 
..For mort· information please contact The Keough Institute for Irish Studies 1 I 46 Flanner Hall 
Information meeting for those interested in the position ofAssistant Rector for University Residence Facilities 
Brown Bag Lunch 


Assistant Rector Positions 1999 -2000 
Thursday, January 28th 
12:15 p.m. -1:00 p.m. 
Room 105 Law School 
For Information Call: Office of Student Affairs 202 Hurley 631-5550 

his head at a missed wide-open dunk with seven minutes left in the game. "The first 1 O minutes of the second half, it didn't look like we should even be in the Big East and we had such a great effort to come back." 
It was diflicult to see the posi­tives through the emotions of a hearH-ncnching loss, but they exist If coach John MacLeod can get this kind ofeffort from his team, the good results will come. 
A week ago the Irish sufTerod a devastating blow when Murphy injured his ankle. At Villanova they suffered a humili­ating loss to the Wildcats -the second blow-out loss in a row. 
But after Tuesday night's win over Syracuse and Saturday's near win against Rutgers, MacLeod's troops arc going somewhere. 
"They've really bounced back nicely," MacLeod said after the Rutgers game. "In a 30-game season you're going to have some jewels and you're going to have some bummers." 
Though Saturday's game cer­tainly falls into the 'bummer' category, it may bo able to lead to more gems. 
"You can't get too negative because they arc kids and they have given us a great effort," MacLeod said. "Good kids will keep on battling and we're mak­ing progress here." 
There is no doubt about the squad making progress. Two months ago Alaska-Anchorage, a Division nschool, got the best of the Irish in overtime. Last week the Irish nearly went 2-0 without their best player. 
'That's just the character or our team," Graves said. "We have a lot of character. We'll get down at times but we'll fight right back up and we're not going to give up." 
The Irish will get the opportu­nity to get right back up this week when they travel to Boston College. They are still not sure if Murphy will return. 
Notre Dame is 1-2 without Murphy, but they now know thal others are capable of stepping up to help carry the load. 
"Troy will be back and when he is we'll be a better team", Graves said. "We've gelled and come together and stepped up without him." 
Notre Dame's record stands at 10-10 -4-5 in the Big East ­with nine games remaining. With two games against last­place Boston College and thrne other home games left. the schedule offers plenty of chances to post some 'W's. 
"We still know we have a chance to make it maybe to the NIT if we keep playing hard and get some wins," Graves said. "The season is not over for us, we still have a long way to go. I think we'll be in good shape. We have some winnablo games down the road and I think we'll come out with a good record." 
Said MacLood, "We've got good young kids that are bat­tling and there aren't many dull moments. We just have good kids that want to win. They want to do it the right way." 
Games like the one the Joyce Center crowd saw last week provide MacLeod all the proof" he nends. 
The views e.1:pressed in this rolumn are those ofthe author and nol necessaril!J those ofThe Observer. 
By JOEY CAVATO 
Associacc Sports Editor 

llutg(lrs' Geoff Billot pump1:d his !isl<; in tho air as he foll to the floor, celebrating n last-sec­ond jumper that gave his tnam a 72-70 win ovnr Notr11 Damn at the .Joycc1 Cnnter Saturday after­noon. 
Irish sophomore Martin Ingrlsby's head turned towards tlm floor. In a split socond, Billet ruitwd a ln•mcnclous Notre Dame comeback -the team tied the game by overcoming a 12-point deficit in just seven minutes. 
Notre name's effort deserved more than that. 
Ingclsby, who scored 19 points in the last 12 minutes, turned in the bnst half of basketball he's played sinr.o donning the Blue and Gold: IIo took lhe big shots without hesitation: he shot the long-range jumper; he drove the bait to the basket; he hit his free throws. 
With Troy Murphy still recov­ering from a sprained ankle, Ingelsby and his teammates responded. 
Whether it was a steal and lay-up by David Graves, a three­pointer by lngelsby or a running jumper by Antoni Wyche sur-· rounded by Scarlet Knights, the Irish came through even though the results did not. 
"It's real frustrating," said Phil Hickey, who still was shaking 

-
-


page 18 The Observer• SPORTS Monday, January 25, 1999 
The Observer/Jeff Hsu Senior captain Andy Warford won his match against William and Mary to help Notre Dame win the adidas Quad Meet. 
Irish open season with tourney win 
¦ MEN'S TENNIS 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team opened its dual-match sea­son in dramatic fashion this Saturday, earning top honors at the adidas Quad Meet. 
The 24th-ranked Irish went into battle against Miami (Ohio) and William and Mary at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. emerging victorious in both matches. The 4-2 victory over Miami advanced Notre Dame to the finals where the team crushed William and Mary 6-1, capturing the title. 
'This triumph will serve as a good stepping stone," said senior captain Andy Warford. "Now we have something to build on." 
In singles action the Irish gained an early advantage over Miami with Ryan Sachire defeat­ing Gareth Quin 6-0, 6-4 at No. 1 singles and Brian Patterson beating B.J. Monroe 6-2, 6-0 at No. 2 singles. No. 5 Andrew Laflin made short work of the Redhawks' Brent Lehring, 6-1, 6-2, setting up Casey Smith's match-clinching 5-7, 6-4, 6-3 victory at No. 4 singles. 
Although the team did win, the difficulty of the match was somewhat unexpected. 
"The first match is always tough. They [Miami] have a lot of good freshman who were apparently not at all nervous," said head coach Bob Bayliss said. 

-
The evening match versus William and Mary, despite its 6­1 score, was equally as competi­tive, except perhaps at No. 1 sin­gles where William and Mary's Trevor Spracklin -against whom Sachire owned a com­manding 3-0 advantage -was forced to retire due to injury. At 
No. 2 singles, Patterson cap­tured the first set 6-3 then secured the victory with an exciting tie break 7 -6. 
"Jn this match Patterson actively attacked the ball early; he became the aggressor. He got down a little in the second set, but came back and had the 


By NATHANIEL DeNICOLA 
Sports Writer 

At No. 3 singles Matt Daly out­lasted David Kenas in what proved to be a battle of endurance. The first game ­which lasted longer than Patterson's first five games ­set the tone for the entire match, eventually culminating in a 7 -6 (5), 6-4 triumph for Daly. After saving five break points, Daly finally closed the match on his fourth match point with a pow­erful cross-court forehand. 
"Kenas had played No. 1 against Michigan the week before, so this was a big victory for Matt. Toward the end he was hitting the ball with authority ­he definitely has the potential to be an impact player," said Bayliss. 
Warford beat Patrick Brown at No. 4 singles in a see-saw match, 5-7, 6-3, 6-4, while Laflin again enjoyed a straight set vic­tory as he routed Tim Csontos 6­0, 6-3 at No. 6 singles. 
Notre Dame lost at No. 5 sin­gles, though it certainly wasn't from a lack of effort by Casey Smith. Smith rebound from a 4­5, 40-15 disadvantage to stave off 6 match points before finally succumbing to Brian Lubin 6-3, 7-6 (11). 
As if to prove it wasn't a fluke, Sachire earned another 3-0 vic­tory, this time in doubles, as he and Patterson forced Harang/Martin Larsson into an injury retirement (perhaps a tribute to Sachire's overpower­ing serve). 
"You hate to think that they would concede the match by playing injured players." com­mented Bayliss, "but one won­ders. Actually, this will help Ryan because he has a tough few weeks ahead." 
Matt Horsely and Trent Miller upset nationally ranked Brown/Lubin at No. 2 doubles. leading the way as Notre Dame swept the matches to earn the extra point. 
On Tuesday the team will encounter its biggest challenge or the season as they take on Wisconsin and fourth-ranked Mark Wolhorn. 
¦ WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Flying Dutch skim past Belles 
ByMOLLYMcVOY 
Sports Writer 

On Saturdav, the Belles showed basketball fans what they can do when they work together, nearly beating Hope College, the second ranked team in the league. 
Saint Mary's held the lead into the beginning of the second half, but Hope pulled it out, winning 75-60. 
"We just told them to come out and play hard," head coach Dave Roeder said. "We're rapa­ble of playing with good teams. 
Recently, we've shown that, Roeder hopes his defense will Roeder. 
sho~ting the baH b~ttcr a~d r----------------------"I
makrng bettflr d!lfens1ve choJC­
e\~is is not the first time the Belles have faced the Flying 
~utch of Hope ~ollegc: and their 
improvement 1s obv10us from the difference between the two games. The first was dominated by Hope from the start and the Belles ended up losing 81-53. 
Saint Mary's turned it around on Saturday and kept Hope ner­vous throughout the 
game. The team played with Hope during the first half and had the lead 45-41 at the begin­ning of the second half. But Hope's defense stepped up and stopped Saint Mary's for a long scoreless streak later in the half. 
Freshman Kelly Jones had another big game, recording her 100th rebound and proving why she is among the league leaders 

Late Night Olympics XIII Friday, January 29 
7:00 PM 4:00 AM oyce \Center1&RSRC 
' . ; . . .. r. 
,a)'.Mfe Night'Olym·pws is scheduled for Friday,
OLYMPICS 
9.The proceetl~ from thrs aU-:-night sports· extrava­
,;,;.. .·. J ·'· . ' 
Rffil~.LSl Josep~i';C.ougty.Special Olympics. For n:cqqiact\our halffepresentafive or call RecSports 
°'"4.w,r;::,.l ,.,~~+')/ It 
lions• ~umni ~nirrmn • fisier • leMa111 O'~eill • Mi~frnn il'\\'dlo • Monil'lll1 Koon • li111umilli! [asl Wrnsi • ~min Si8'rilli • ~roon.fflilliis • ~oli ~oss ~s~ri!a W1111 • Sranfo,a • Mil:ooaless 
at. [mu's •fail~ lanm • lew~ 
Friday. January 29, 1999 • 7:00 PM -4:00 AM• Joyce Center &RSRC • 631-6100 All LNO Medals Were Donated by the Notre Dame Alumni Association All I-Shirts Were Donated by <I:~ 
S h Ori n -RyU Ka r a t e 
•Di.sci.pli.ne •Self-Defense 
•Self Confidence •Fitness 
Register in Advance at RecSports For More Info. Call 1-6100 Demonstration Tuesday, January 26, Rockne Rm. 219 6:30PM 
R--~ 
www.nd.ec1u/~recsport
~----------------------~ 
in both rebounding and blocked allow less than her average 19 shots. She has been one of the points a game. many freshman who stepped up "This week we're working in the absence of a lot of upper-new things on defense," said classmen. Roeder. "We hope with this new 
"Since Charlotte Albrecht is defense we can stop Ellen the only senior playing, with Bradbury." Nicole [Giffin] hurt, a lot of After Alma, the Belles face underclassmen arc forced to Olivet, a team Saint Mary's can make decisions," said Coach play vrry compr,titively. This has Roeder. most definitely been a building. 
Saint Mary's hopes its year for Saint Mary's, but the improvement can continue as it underrlassmcn have shown the faces Alma College this fans that the talent isthere. SaLurday. Alma will throw the "In a year or two, these girls league's leading scorer, Ellen are really going to be all right Bradburv, at the Belles and and very competitive," said 
resolve to win," Bayliss said. Others were quick to praise Patterson on his performance, 

Mac & Window Software at Academic Prices! 
namely fellow captain Warford. -"Pat really played well, per­Notre Dame Students and Faculty receive up to 75% off retail prices on software. 
haps he can top last year's 20-3 

record," Warford said. Call now for FREE delivery on all orders until 1 /25/99! ADW 1-800-333-8571 
Monday, January 25, 1999 The Observer• TODAY page 19 
1.OOKfNG THROUGH THE WJZARD OF ND DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
... A~b so F RANl<E STE't,N J51:CAME A WAL.L floWER 
Ar ALL THE PANCl:5_I 
FOXTROT 
IF 10ll J\JST SToPPEO 

Now, TELL ME,
j~E N,lJ/lE oF THE GAME 
Tf..KE, FoR EXAMPLE, 'THE 
WHAT 15 IT
WEA'VIN6 All oVER 'TtiE

WA.Y 'l'oO A.RE WALKING
·• IN 6uS1NESS, MR. Fox, 
THA.T Yo,J'RE

Tl{RoUC,H THIS OFFICE: 
flLA.CE, '!'OU'D GET Wl-lER·

~ IS EFFICIENC'I'. WASTED 
TRYING-To
E\'ER YOU'RE (;OtNG IN

LEFT TURNS, Rt611T TvRNS,
i T1ME IS WASTfO MoNEY. 
\ Of' lliE STAIRS, DoWN 1HE S.TAIR~ 
Hf..LF 'TI-1E T1ME ! 
G~T To?

/ I I . 
,_\ 

DILBERT 
... AND ONE. BOX Of 
1'1-tOSE. Br.G BINDER CLIP5 ... 

LFO (July 23-Aug. 22): Disagree­ments ttgarding financial concerns
·rtl"\fv\"f', UNTIE ~t\'f'BE. 
will CJlll5e upset and alarm. Do not oversp,nd or give too generously to 
DO NOT 
l'LLC0/1'\E 

-
those ..-.worthy of your help Stub­
,~E NEIGH~OR5 BACK 
LIGHT 
LATE.~. 

THAT GA50LIN£1 
~NO 00 YOlJR 
\-\01"\E.WOR.K 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 A three-of-a-kind 
beats i1 sGlided 1Stun 
14Too 
15 Newsweek rival 
11 Poorer, as 
excuses go 17 Formal dance 11Giveoff 1•Tnmlimbs 20 Something of 
trivial 
importance 
u"MyCousin Vinny" Oscar winner Marisa 
24 Televise :tSBad­
(German spa) 21 Alcott c lassie 33 Spawning fish 37 Buck's mate 38 Michelangelo 
statue 39 Achingly desire 41 "The Mary Tyler 
Moore Show" 
co-star 43 Make amends 44Muhammad 
45 To be, in Toulouse 46 Don Ho's theme 
song 50 Porker's pad 51 Actress Zadora 
52 "The Lion King" 
lion 57 Windmill setting 62 Think out loud 64 --American 
relations 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

6Slnter­
66 String bean's opposite 
&7 Oklahoma city 68 Huge 69 Test, as a 
garment 70 Certain NCO's 11 Gaelic 
DOWN 

1 Big name in brewing 2 "Remember the 
3 44-Across's faith 4 Esther of 'TV's 
"Good Times" sPart of a process aProm night 
transport 7Ape aParticular 9 Brand for 
Bowser 
SALESS 

11 Kind of park ~-+--tc-t-:-1 12 Buddhist state 8::.:+.:..+=::+=:.i 13 Before, in poetry 
-+;;;;+"+--. 21 Diamond ­~c.:..i-'-+"-1 22 Three, in Torino ..--:-+.::1-:::1 2& Poet's constraint 
-.~++-~==+-+'~ 27 Entrap 29 Bride's words 30 High craggy hill 
~--tc-:+::-1 31 Depression-era program: Abbr. S N --'+--+--+--.-+"+--1 32 River to the 
L Seine 
i:-:t-:::-+::-:+.=-t-;T::-r.O-+=T+.:-Lt:E<-1 33 Tiffs 

=..._..c.,.;..;..,._So..L.S_._l..,_Z_,_E_,_S_. 34 Bandleader's cry 
fo R 11/J foRTIINA TE l Y, 
t,HS MASTcR HA b 6 It/EN 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS
HI~ 'fw, lfFT F~ET. 
DAY, Dean Jones, Jacqueline OuPre, 
Cor~zon Aq1Jino, Diana Hyland, 
Dinah ManofL Andy Cox, China Slick 
H•ppy Birlhd•y: Your cr .. ative ...agimtion must be put to good use this year If you don't have a game plan. you may find that you take the ,.,ong path. Think your objectives 4.rough to the end and don't expect 
tl,ings to happen without sufficient tllort. You ran be the b<,st if you are willing to put in the time that it will mquire. Don't sell yourself short. Fol· 1....., your heart and your dreams Your numbers: 12,. 17, 23, 25, 33, 48 
ARIES (March 'l.l•April 19): 
lm,,estments made today will be pmfitable. You should look into issues that concern your future direction Yoar parlnt'r may not agree with your derisions. Act on your past experi­
BILL AMEND 
ena,. 000 
1:A.URUS (April 20-May 20): You sh<Wlld be most con=ned with your pr~sional accomplishments. The poGlibilities are endless if you are willing to take advantage of the fortu· na~ circumstances that surround you.000 
GEMINl (May 'l.1-June 20): Emo­lioruil attachments to someone you work with may cause friction with ~mplByers. Don't push your beliefs on pttrs. It is best to keep your thoughts to yourself. 000 
CANCER (Jun" 21-July 22): Ang,. and deception will continue to plagw you. Discord will evolve if you J,... control It is better to sit back and wait for others to make the
SCOTT ADAMS 
nustalaes. 0000 
/1/ }// 
I • 
OF.,INTEREST 
.t,, 
·. Va.n training certification class will be held at the Center for S?cial Concerns today from 5:30-7:30 p,m. ?No r:egisttatiort required. All will be held in Hoom 124. 14::. 
Wanted: Reporters and photographers. Join The Observer 
Punle by Randy Sowell 
35 Fame's opposite 36 When said three times, a liar's 
policy 40 Jan. follower 41 Pipe bend 42 Go out, as a 
flame 
44 Letting up !14 Back tooth 59Signgas 55 Ecstasy 60 Measuring 

staff. 
standard
56­

worse than 61 Axles death 62Manyatime 58 Not -many 63 Golfer's words goal 
. . 
47 Wire service inits. Answer_s to any three clues m this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 48 Slants 1-900-420-5656 (95i per minute). 48 Opposite NNW Annual subscriptions are available for the 53 •--at the best of Sunday crosswords from the last office" 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
bomness will only make matt,·· worse.00 
VIRGO (Aug. 2J.S-,pt. 22): Conlt sion regardinl! your position an your responsibilities will rau, major upset. You will enjoy trips th . bring you added knowledge , enltglllenment 00000 
LIBRA (Sept 23-Oct. 22): Don get involved in dubious ronnt'Clim or gambling. Your extravagance w, be your downfall. Overindulgen, will cause minor aliments. Try to ta, it easy and relax. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Y,, can expect to have problems wi1' your love life. Your jealous tendenr could cause your mate to be di, honest with you in order to avo,, arguments. Try to be morf' unde, standing. 000 
SAGrrTAIUUS (Nc,,t. 22-Dec. 21, Travel or educational pursuits wi! promote meeting new mares. Friend may not be completely up-front witl you. Don't expect to get h«'lp fron ot.hl-rs. 000 
CAPRICORN (Der. 22-Jan. 191 You can enhance your appearanc•· however; you mwl not overspend t, do so. Take time to do somethinf special with clilldren or friends. Yo, should get involved in creativ, projedr;. 00000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Ftb. 181 Beautification should be on you mind. You can make persona changes. Look into clubs and orgA niz.ations that offer self-awarenes ll'clures and physiml fitness. 00 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20); Ym need to be around people who ca, provide you with mental stimulation Don't hesitate if you meet the idea mate. Act on your instincts. You ca, charm others with your unusua qualities. 0000 

J"J}f>~~~STUDENT GOVERNMENT WANTS YOUR SUGGESTIONS 
Do you have comments, complaints, or suggestions 
about the Rolfs RecSports Center or the Rockne 
Memorial? Student Resources is ready to listen. Call 
them at 1-6283_. They are more than willing to serve 
your needs, so call today! 

• 
.. 
.. 


By AlAN WASIELEWSKI Spon. Wri[er 
The Big East basketball season is turning into a roller coaster ride for the Notre Dame men's basketball team. 
True to this sr,ason's form, Tuesday's win over Seton Hall was followed bv a disheartening last­second loss· to Rutgers on Saturday, 72-70. Rutgers' senior guard Geoff Billet sank an o!T-balance fall-away jumper at the buzzer to hand the Irish their 10th loss of the season and fifth in Rig East play. 
With leading scorer Troy Murphy watching from the bench, ;\lotre name gavP another team effort with a spirited comeback in the sec­ond half that fell just short. 
"I saw a lot of gnod things and a lot or bad things today," Notre Dame coach John MacLeod said af'tpr the game. "Our kids never gave up and made a big surge at the end." 
That big surge allowed Notre Dame to tie the game. After being down 12 points at the eight-minute mark, Antoni Wyche's lay-up tied the game with eight seconds left. 
Following a Rutgers time-out, Billet dribbled the length of the court against the blanket defense of Martin Ingclsby and forced an awk­ward shot through the hoop. 
"There was no way I thought he was going to make that shot," 
¦ HOCKEY 

leers slide to fourth in CCHA 
By TED BASSANI 
Sports Writer 
The hockey team returned from its longest road trip of the season in the CCI IA with disap­pointing results: By earning one point of a possible four, the Irish fell to fourth in the CCHA rank­ings. 
Friday night, they saw a two­goal third-period lead vanish in 37 seconds as Northern Michigan tied the game 3-3. On Saturday, they out-skated and outplayed Lake Superior State for much of the game, but were unable to finish ofT their numer­ous chances and fell to the ninth-ranked Lakers 3-1. 
The Wildcats took it to the Irish early in the first period Friday night by unleashing a 

... 
barrage of shots on senior goal­tender Forrest Karr. Karr and his teammates were able to keep Northern ofT of the score­board in the early going. 
On their first power play opportunity of the game, some great pud movement led to J\niket Dhadphalc's team-lead­ing sL,th power play goal of the

... 
year. After senior defenseman Benoit Cotnoir's wrist shot bounded in front of the net, Dhadphaln was in perfoct posi­tion to tuck it home for the 1-0 lead. 
Friday's gamr also had spe­



¦ Reggie Miller and ¦ Andy Warford and the Pacers edge the the men's tennis team­BuJls in first NBA crushed William & preseason game. Mary to take the title at 
the adidas Quad Meet. 
PORTS 
p.12 p.18 
O 
THE 
page 20 Monday, January 25, 1999
BSERVER 

¦ MEN'S BASKETBALL 

ND comeback smothered by buzzer-beater 
The Observer/Jeff Hsu 

Senior Phil Hickey pulled down 12 rebounds in Saturday's loss against the White Knights, 72-70. 
Ingelsby said. "I thought l had him tied up pretty well," 
Notre Dame rhose not to double team Billet at the end of the game, even though they knew he was get­ting the ball. 
"We figured either Billet or (Earl] Johnson was going to take the shot. Martin was alone because everyone was afraid to leave their man opr,n," MacLeod said. 
Whatever the outcome of that last play, the offensive effort Ingelsby gave in the second half kept tlrn Irish in the game. The sophomore guard had only three points at the half, but stepped up his offensive production in the second half to lead the game in scoring with 22 points. 
Twelve of those points came in the last six minutes ~ right whfm Notre Dame needed them the most. 
"I came out pretty aggressive in the srcond half," lngfllsby explained. "Coach ran someplays to get me some shots and I was able to convert." 
The hole out of which Ingelsby dug the Irish came courtesy of the Rutgers bench. Earl Johnson was the biggest Scarlet Knight substitu­tion, tallying 15 points in 26 min­utes to lead his team in scoring. Rutgers ended up with 27 bench points compared to just 8 from the Notre Dame reserves. 
see GAME/ page 15 


cial meaning for Dhadphale, whu was playing in his home­town of Marquette, Mich. The hometown fans witnessed Dhadphale tie teammate Brian Urick for the team lead in goals with his 13th of the year. 
Just 11 seconds after Dhadphale's power play goal, 
Notre Dame caught the Wildcats napping in their own zonr. Sophomore left wing Jay Kopischke, who played his best game of the season to date, pounced on a loose puck behind the net and slid a pass into the 
see HOCKEY/ page 14 
¦ WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish crush Red Storm in blowout 
By ANTHONY BIANCO Assi.rant Sports Editor 
The million-dollar halftime shot contest was more of an interruption than entertain­ment for the 6,300-plus fans that came to see Notre Dame take its shot at St. John's and a chance at upping the Irish win streak to six games. 
Though the shot was. off, fans still got their money's worth as head coach Muffet McGraw's Irish cruised to a 99-60 win. Six double-digit scorers for the Irish led the offense, including two frcsh­me n off the bench, Ericka Haney (16) and Sherisha Hills 
(13). 
Notre Dame's 6-0 run in the Big East this month, coupled with Roston College's 78-66 win yesterday. over conf'cr­ence-leader Connecticut, should stir things up in both the conference and the national polls. At 17-2 overall and 7-2 in the Big East. the Irish stand third in the confer­r,nce behind the Huskies and second-place Rutgers. Nationally, McGraw's team held a No. 9 ranking before this weekend's games, 
The Irish wasted no time building a convincing _win Saturday night, putting together a double-digit lead in the game's first four minutes on a 10-0 run. Danielle Green started the drive with a layup and Ruth Riley capped it with another play from underneath with 16:09 left in the first. 
Between those two plays from the inside, Niele Ivey and Sheila McMillen stretched the Red Storm defense with points from three-point land. Notrn Dame was able to keep St. John's zone defense guessing all night long, allowing oppor­tunities to develop from the paint and the field. 
"Anytime you have a well­rounded ball club as Notre Dame has, their inside game star.ed working for them," said St, John's head coach Charlene Thomas-Swinson on the dynamic defense the Irish forced upon her team. "That gave them more of an oppor­tunity to be able to get the ball back out for the outside shots." 
Taking 25 shots from three­point range, the Irish tied 
see 8-BALL/ page I 2 

• 
Men's Tennis at Wisconsin at Syracuse 
Tuesday, 7 p.m.
SPORTS 

Tuesday, 2 p.m. vs. Michigan
ATA 
~ 
Saturday, 7 p.m. 

vs. PrO\•iderice Women's Tennis Saturday, noon vs. Kansas State 
GLANCE Saturday, 2 p.m. 
• . 









