
Aroyal flush? 
Take-off tragedy 
Where do you go on campus? Take a look at 
A plane en route to South Bendfrom Chicago's 

Friday
how Scene rates all the urinary possibilities. 
Miegs Field crashed into Lake Michigan 
Thursday ni_qht.

~ , I 
NOVEMBER 12,
Scene . page 16-17 
News . page 6 
1999 

·rhe l11dependent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXIII NO.St HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

An education in faith 
toms. Many students come
. Non-Catholic 
from areas where there arestudents say they few Muslims, fakhfr said, so benefit from keep­their lack of understanding 
cnmes. from a lack of' flduca­
ing their faith at a 
lion.Catholic university ''I've faced a lot of igno­rancP lwre." she said. II nr lrnadscarf, she
Ry ERIN LARUFFA 
explains, is not a fashion 
Nrws Writer 
statement. but a practice she has abided by since age 6. 
Whm, Ay,ma Fakhir visitHd 
According to Muslim doc­
collng,• campusns as a high 
trine, Fakhir must cover her srhool sPnior. slw clncided head in public. She is also 
Notrn Damn 11<wd<'d her prohibited from wr,aring tight 
most. 
or.short clothing.
Fakhir. a prartiring 
Instead of' going to the 
Muslim. thought slrn could 
Basilica on Sundays, she 
add a lll'W perspnrtive to tlrn 
worships at a South Bend 
prl'dominatnly Catholic. stu-· mosque on Fridays and prays
{knl body. 
l'ive times a day in her "Undt>rstand tlwrn arH peo­McGlinn dorm room. 
plii who do not think like you Fakhir also finds ways to fit 
do," Fakhir said. 'Tm glad I her religion into the Catholic 
was hrrn to ndurate other 
community. Meat in the din­
Jll'OfllP.,. 
ing hall, siw said, is "not law­
Fnkhir is OIH\ or tho 
ful." Although Po1i°d Sr-rvices 
llniv,•rsily's 1,218 non­
offers to make certain meats 
Catholic tmdorgraduates. 
avai!able l'or her, she often BdWPPll 70 and 80 pPrcPnt 
prnpares food in her room 
or Notrl' !html' applicants am 
sent from her parents in 
Catholics. acrording lo 
Ohio. 
admissions rounselor Moira 
Notre Dame's religious
Srhrad,!r. If all things are 
atmosphnrn also helps non­
c•qual. Sc:hradPr said, a 
Catholic students learn about 
Catholic studrrnt usually will a nnw religion.
lw aclmitlPd lrnfore a non­In a social psychology class Catholic. 
discussion, freshman Anne BPcausn so many students Liddy, a Lutheran, noticed 
am Catholic, Fakhir must ol'trn1 oxplain thc Muslim cus­
see FAITH/page 4 

Campus celebrates, recognizes American veterans 
we've had thousands of 
By ALISON HEINZ 
'Private Ryans' we must not 
News Writer 
forget." During his brief remarks Two F-16s piloted by service Hesburgh praised the membms 
veterans flew over Stonehenge of llOTC both past and present. as the last f'ew strains of the "You arc part of a long tradi­National Anthem floated tion. a tradition written in through the air. marking the stone on the other side of this opening of the tri-military monument," llesburgh said in Veteran's Day ltetreat reference to Storwhengo, Ceremony Wednesday evening. which bears a Latin inscription 
Tim Roemer, Democratic meaning "we are for peace. wn representative of Indiana's 3rd are for our country." District, the district in which llcsburgh praised tlw 500 the University is locatr,d, and Notre Dame men and women Father Theodore Hesburgh, who have died, making tho 
Univeristy president emeritus, ultimatn sacrifice, to uphold addresstd the crowd. The their belief' in God, Country and audience was comprised of Notre Dame. members of the South Bend "These men and women, thn community, veterans, studimts products of' Notre Dame HOTC, 
and the cadets and midship­went out with courage and men of Notre Dame's ROTC died with couraw1," llesburgh program. said. 
"Fniedom is never free," Many students weatlrnred tlrn Boemer said. He then read the first cold ufternoon this wcnk famous letter sent to Lydia to pay tribute to America's war 
Bixby of Boston f'rom Abraham veterans. 
Lincoln af'ter he learned she "I came out f'or it because my lost live sons on the battlefield. dad is a Lieutfmant Colonel in Tho letter served as a major the United States Army source of inspiration for the Reserve and all of my great­movie ''Saving Private llyan." uncles sr,rved in World War II, 
Before introducing 1-lesburgh. and I think it's a nice tribut,i," Roemer said, "Remember that said junior Dominic Caruso. 


MIKE HARRIS/The Observer 
Students, administrators and ROTC representatives attended the tri-mllitary Veteran's Day Retreat Ceremony Thursday at Stonehenge. 
w 
-
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Friday, November 12, 1999 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Groovy 
actlVlSfll 
Despite the many ideological differences between peuple on this campus, most of us agree to disagree with the conditions of many U.S. fac­tories in foreign countries, 
affectionately known as. sweatshops. While our objections might have differ­ent reasons behind them, we would all like to see safer, more humane treatment of sweatshop workers. 
lt's only logical to there­fore question the role of our University with regards to 

the production of Notre Dustin Ferrell Dame clothing and other paraphernalia. Campus 
Assistant
activists rightfully protested Notre Dame's role and called Viewpoint for disclosure by the Editor Univcrsitv. Now the adminis­
tration has chosen to take· part in a monitoring agreement with the Fair Labor Association, with monitoring by -gasp -PricewaterhouseCoopers. You can imagine how much this steamed many activists, who do not trust corporations in the first place. 
Maybe the malcontents have a point -why should Notre Dame employ an accounting firm with experience and expertise? We must not for­get that they are still a corporation, sothey can't possibly be very nice. I believe I have the solu­tion, one that will involve really nice guys with business know-how. 
I propose to let Ben and Jerry and their com­pany monitor these factories. Ben and Jerry's, as you know, is an ice cream giant with no auditing or even monitoring background of any sort. These are the same guys who wrote a book which told us, among other things, how many far-out things we could do ifwe "simply" cut the military budget in half. 
Based on what Ben and Jerry have shown in writing and speech, they represent two idealistic utopians unconcerned with the hard, simple facts of life. They have great intentions and kind hearts, but lack the general intelligence to understand world issues. This makes them per­fect for the'job. I can only imagine what progress we would make by bringing these burned out flower children out to replace those greedy corporate pigs at PWC. Hearing their report on the worker conditions would be enlightening to say the least: 
"Well, Jerry and I went to these factories man, and they were way out like in Thailand, and... hey Jerry, my speech is turning colors! Oh, any­way man the conditions there are really bad. Hey Jerry, dude. you've got like, five arms!" 
"Settle dO\vn, Ben. Sorry about that, folks. What Ben meant to say was, all we have to do is like, make the suits do all the sewing, and then put the little man up in the corporate office. Dig it, man." 
I can understand many of the misgivings of sweatshop activists who have little reason in their minds to support corporations. I do hope that their objection to PricewaterhouseCoopers is due to something the company has actually done and not simply a general dislike of big business. 
The opponents of this appointment might have a valid point when they call for a more open poli­cy, one which discloses the location of factories and gives less of an impression that there's any­thing to hide. But they must keep in mind that "big, evil" firms like PWC are some of the most respected, reputable firms in their profession, and deserve better than the undying cynicism of a few corporation-haters. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Chrisrine Kr.ily Mike Vanegas 
Erin PirouceR. Graphics 
Kyle Andrews 
Joe Mueller Sports 
Production 
Noah Amstadrer 
Kerry Smich 
Viewpoint 
Lab Tech 
Dustin Ferrell Angela Campos 
Th, Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Moncl.iy rhrough l'riday ~xcept during exam and vacation period,;. The Observer i~ a member of rhe: Associaccd Press. Ail reproduccion rights are reserved. 
THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
Student Union ticket office robbed 
Students to pay $1,400 for food fight 
November 15, 1972 
November 12, 1987 
A robbery cost the Student Union over $200 in cash. A 
A damage bill of $1400 was given to the Hall Presidents' 
$1500 check was also taken, but it was cancelled. 
Council by Univerity Food Services to cover expenses for 
There were no suspects. The money was taken from a 
a food fight in which 800 Notre Dame students participat­
desk during otlice hours and the door was not locked. 
ed. The bill was to cover the cost of broken dishes, wast­
Jim Schneid of the Student Union said that they had 
ed food and paying employees to clean up. No matter how 
narrowed the time of theft to a 15-20 minute period 
the bill was divided it all came from the student body, 
between 3 and 4 p.m. 
said studfmt body vice president Laurie Brink. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports
OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Three homemade bombs explode at MSU 
Nine homemade bombs were found Any suspect found guilty of making
"It makes us have to be 
outside of Philips Residence Hall at the bombs could be charged with a 
more careful"
Michigan State University felony offense of possnssion and cre­Wednesday morning. Three of the ation of an explosive device, which bombs exploded some time between Ashley Dehr carries a minimum sentence of four 11 p.m. Tuesday and 8 a.m. years in prison.
MSU student
Wednesday, MSU Police Detective Mohamad Pedram, who lives on Tony Willis said. the second flour of Philips near the The bombs did not injure anyone, courtyard, said the bombs were Willis said. He explained that the which operates out of Lansing. MSU "pretty loud, like gunshots." 
Police evacuated residents living in
bombs aUegedly were· eonstructed Philips resident Ashley Dehr said with household chemicals in 20-the basement and the first floor of the idea that the bombs wern placed ounce plastic Gatorade bottles. in the courtyard, where many stu­
Philips whose rooms were adjacent A Philips resident discovered the to the courtyard. dents often play football, concerns bombs in the courtyard between Willis said police have no suspects, her. "It doesn't make us feel safe," Philips and the connecting Snyder Dehr said. "It makes us have to be
but he explained that MSU Police will Residence Hall. first focus its investigation on Philips more careful." 
A staff member in Philips then residents and expand from there. Willis said yesterday's discovery is informed MSU Police of the explo­In addition to determining what not connected to prior incidents at sives. chemicals were used to make the Philips. On Oct. 20, a female student The police arrived at the scene bombs, MSU Police are attempting to at Philips was assaulted when a man identify a suspect by using finger­
Wednesday at 8 a.m. with the entered her unlocked residence hall Michigan State Police bomb squad, prints found on the bottles. room. 
Hate slurs found at Dartmouth 
Yale student disappears 
HANOVER, N.H. 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. 
The Hanover Police and Safety and Security are 
When Branford senior Gregory Norris last saw his 
investigating a string of anti-Semitic slurs repeatedly 
mother and father, on Parents' Weekend in mid­
discovered on a student's door in Topliff residence hall 
October, he was anxious about what he was going to 
over the past two weeks. At 10:30 a.m. Wednesday 
do when he graduates. He was unsure about his 
morning, a Topliff resident discovered the slur "KKK, 
future. His father suggested he travel or perhaps join 
Kill Kosher Kykes" written with a dry-erase marker on 
the Peace Corps to help collect his thoughts about how 
the message board of Charles Gussow -the under­
he wants to spend the rest of his life. "His time at Yale 
graduate advisor of first-floor Topliff. On Tuesday, 
slipped by a lot quicker than he thought it would," his 
Gussow returned from his morning class to find the 
father, Jerry Norris, said from his home in Omaha, 
phrase "Hitler was a great maIJ," written on his board. 
Neb. Perhaps Norris has taken his father's advice to 
On Saturday, Oct. 30, two other Topliff residents dis­
heart. The economics major has been missing since 
covered the slur "Jews Suck" on Gussow's board. 
Halloween and ·although friends say he may have·con­
Following the discovery in October, Gussow -who is 
sidered harming himself, they said this week they feel 
Jewish -contacted Safety and Security, who began 
he will return eventually. "Something just snapped 
investigating the incident. Safety and Security notified 
and he ran away," his father said. "Kids do that some­
the police on Tuesday after the discovery of the second 
times." School officials confirmed Wednesday that 
incident, and both departments are currently conduct­
whatever has happened to Norris he has done to him­
ing independent -though cooperative -investiga­
self and has not been the victim of a crime. "I hope he 
tions. No suspects have been charged in the incidents, 
picks up the phone and calls someone, but until then 
and it is not yet determined whether the three inci­
it's all on his terms," said his sister Carrie Norris, a 
dents are related. 
sophomore at the University of Arizona. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
Accu Weather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather" forecast for noon.Tuesday, Nov. 9. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day 

...,.,~?, 
,,, 
Friday ~.,,($0 

H
!ill>+. 
Saturday ~ ,69 
5
lliw. f(t: 
Os ~"\. ~ • 
, fl!l!k, 
709
Sunday d:-r~ .58 48 
<> 
~<t, 
408 FRONTS:
~Boa
Monday ~1\:453 >·a~: 
.......... .&...&. ......... 
C 1999 Accuweather. tnc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Pru.aur,; 
® © D ~ ITTI .' E'.'J [fil (.) ~-.... 
High Low ShOWCUI Rain I-storms Flurrlea Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy
Tuesday ·· .,, ~I!j;.0 ;:i«•i:~ 

Via Assomated Press
:}~\i..-----,,/..,~r·"'·,,, ·.,. 
Atlanta 72 so Las Vegas 81 51 Phoenix 90 62 Baltimore 54 37 Memphis 72 49 Sacramento 79 44Q,rQ,Q48.8 ~ ~ u Boston 42 36 Milwaukee 62 43 Sheridan 76 40 Showers f.storms Rain Fl;rries S~o·;:, Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Chicago 64 44 New York 50 42 Tampa 82 59 Via Assoc,ateCI Press G~hlcsNet Cincinnati 62 44 Philadelphia 69 50 Wash DC 56 44 

., 
wow -..
= -•• 
hiday, November 12, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Saint Mary's attracts local youth in mentoring progrrun 
The labs -clcvelopnd mainly Indiana after graduation.
Ry MOLLY MCVOY !'or al-risk students without The students from St. 
News Writ~r access to extensive science Adelbert's are seventh and 
cquipmrnt -arf' taught jointly eighth graders who come on 
ll was Thursday morning by a professor and Saint Thursday mornings to learn and Marilyn Sh1ilton was gr,t.­Mary's biology and r.hemistr:v chemistry, see the College and ting rnacly for drnmistry \ah stucknts. even nnjoy dining hall lunches. with profossor Toni Barstis. The labs, held weekly, have "We don't have this much Shnlton was going to learn taught studPnts ,wcrything sciencP-equipment at school," about pl! and tnst tlw acidity or· from how a frog's heart boats Elizabeth Andrysiak, a St. all kinds or housnlrnld prod-to how many calories are in a Adelben's student said. "We· 11rts. peanut. don't really get to do scil'ncf' 
Slrnllon. howev(1r, is not a "13ccausn thcy'rn so excited that's this hands-on very clrn111istry major. She's not about everything. it helps us often." nvPn a st11dm1t at Saint Mary's. realize why we're doing sr,i­Tho goal of these labs is not She is a snv«~nth-and eighth­ence," said junior Christine only to give students the scien­grade tnadwr who brings 18 Diana, a leaching assistant. tific background that will be pn•-tonns from St. Adolbort's "It givos thorn the chance to necessary once they get to high with lrnr to tfw lab. do t.hings they don't normally school, but also to get them 
Thn middlo-schoohirs partic­do, like performing hands-on exci.tc>.d about college in genPr­ipaU~ in CoSTiiP, a science out­experiments with common, al. reach program al Saint M:try's. everyday things they can relate "The idea is to get them 
"T h,. k ids havI' Ina nrn d to." 1-lrn said. lrnre, get them some lab expe­things that they would 1wver The grant comes from Ely rience and gei them to want to lw (ixpmwd to at our school," Lilly, an Indiana-based drug go to college," Barstis said.. 
Slwlton said. "It's things they company. Ely Lilly had a sub­Tho labs are working, rwcd to know." stantial prof'il. according to TIJP collt>g(1 n~cnivod a $ I from tlrn sale t h o s e 111illi1111 gr:int rrom Urn I.illy of Prozac and ..Because they're so involved. The 
E11dow11rn11t College wanted to use excited about everything teachers have l'n•paratory Program, whir.h it to help seen an
it helps us realize why
indudrs "Scinncc Power Labs," Indi<11HL stu­improvement Thrn«i ol' thesc power labs am dents. The we 're doing science. " in the stu­in spssion al tlH• CnllPgf'l this r,ompany's dents' scien­s«imcslt'i'. throe goals in tific language,
Christine Diana 
Nancy Nnkvasil, a Saint forming the writing and
Saint Mary's junior
Mary's physiology prof!'ssor, f\ndowment ability to use l«>ac:lws a lab for h-omc­were to get instruments. schoolnd students and 01w for Indiana resi-"It's cer­studt\nts from Navarrn. a pub­dents in college, keep them in tainly interesting and neat to lic gnulf' school in South lfond. collegn and keep them in hear them begin to speak more 
Social Concerns Seminar: Theo 366 
ti-ii
CENTE.R FOR
Spring 2000 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

-> A two-week service-learning opportunity in Mexico: May 17 -31, 2000 
•> Students earn one credit (Fall 2000) 
-> In Mexico, students experience and reflect upon the economic, political, and social realities of Latin America 
-> Students chosen to participate in the Mexico Seminar meet weekly during the Spring Semester to plan, organize and fundraise for the trip 
-> Knowledge ofSpanish is helpful, but not required 
-> Open to Notre Daine and St. Mary's juniors, sophomores, and freshmen 
-> The Seminar fee is $500 ($100 deposit with remainder due in April) 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING Monday, November 15, 1999 
4:30 p.m. Center for Social Concerns 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT THE CSC 
APPLICATIONS DUE NOVEMBER 22 (preferred) or November 30 (last day) 
With $100 Deposit Deposit returned if applic:atiun is nut accepted 
For more information contact: 
Ben Peters, 631-5370 or 631-5293 Joe Lake, 634-4917 Marina Ziolkowski, 634-2532 
to me, 'Why do our experi­ments get eas­ ''This is showing them. especially through  science is," McCarthy said. ·  
ier every week?' I told him that thev were undcr·­ mentoring, seeing lhe professors and the 7'As, that 'You could do this ....  The Eureka Science Academy is also held at  
standing it so mur,h better," she said. "Thev love it. They· have so  Toni Barstis chemistry professor  tho College during the summer as part of' this program.  
much fun."  Fourth  

The labs are not the only through sixth graders attnnd a facet of this endowment. As three-week day camp where part of the outreach, the Saint the students go on nature Mary's community hopes to get walks, learn about the local 
as many students and teachers wildlife and explore their com­involved as possihle. munity. 
During the summer, Saint Sixty ,students participated in Mary's hosts the Saint Mary's the program and camo to six Science Teacher Institute. One­Saturday follow-up sossions and two-week sessions are during the school year. held to introduce elementary "The goal of this program is school tear,hers to new scientif­to improve their reading, writ­
ic curricula and experiments ing and thinking skills, espe­they can use in thctr class­cially in scit~nc1~." Barstis said. rooms. The Eli Lilly endowment will 
Deborah McCarthy, Joseph last l'or thrne years, and power Bellina and Doris Watt, profes­labs, the teacher's academy sors from the College, ran the and Eureka will continue as sessions this summer. The ele­well. Tbe College is already mentary school teachers per­receiving requests for the formed college-level experi­upcoming sessions. Everyone 
ments as well as experiments involved is excited to be a part thev could use in their class­of the outreach. roo'ins. At the end of the ses­"This is showing them, espe­sions, each teacher received a cially through mentoring, sne­kit of materials and texts val­ing the prof'essors .and the TAs, ued at $300. that 'You could do this,"' 
"What we wanted to do was Barstis said. 
Monet 
The Fine Art of Hair Design For That Lasting Impression 
Debbie LaF ree 
340 Cleveland Rd. 
Granger, Indiana 46530 
Phone: 273-0441 
Women's Hair Cuts: $40 Men's Hair Cuts: $25 Highlights: $80 
30% off thru 11/18 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
m'.be ,1!otre 1!lame <!Cborale & QCbamher ®rcbestra 
Alexander Blachly, Director 

Byrd Wert Gibbons Schiltz Handel 
8:00 p.m. 
Wednesday, November 17 Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Free & open to the public. www.nd.edu/ ~music for more info 
scientifically," Nekvasil said. "It's amazing how far they've come," agreed junior Emily Koelsch, a teaching assistant. 
"William la St. Adelbert's student! said 
to make [thr, tl1achersl lrn in the exact position their stu­dents would be in both to cm­ate empathy for tlrnm and an understanding of what this · inquiry-base<l 
MARA  FOX  FUN  RUN  
REGISTER  10:30  AM  SATURDAY  11/13  
RACES  STARTS  AT  11  AM  AT  LYONS  HALL  

r 
pagc4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 12, 1999 
ther participates in commu­nion. Both notice the impor­tance placed on the Eucharist in Mass. 
"Equal importance seems to be placed on everything fin a Lutheran service] ... It is not focused on the communion," Liddy said. 
Liddy's mother had reserva­tions about her daughter attending a Catholic university. 
"My morn was a little bit worried," said Liddy. She explained that her mother was concerned about the 
"Here, there's a lot of sup­port for the Catholic lifestyle," Ameen said. He also said stu­dents must seek out rnligious experiences, but added that at many other. universities such opportunities arc not available. 
The concepts of chastity, charity and love are also important to Ameen's religious life. Ile said he believes doing community service is actually doing work for God. 
During his junior year, Ameen took a theology class 
about mira­
cles, which 
Catholic "Islam is my life. 1 want­covcrod only Church's posi­the Catholic
ed to remain Muslim. " 
tions on topics approach to such as abor­the topic. Ile tion, birth con­Ayana Fakhir said, howev­trol and homo­
McGlinn senior er, that hn 
sexuals, which vary from the Lutheran stance. 
But being exposed to Catholic views helped Fakhir grow as a Muslim. . 
"[t was an opportunity to become stronger in my own faith," she said about attending Notre Dame. "Islam is my life. 1 wanted to rnmain Muslim." 
Notre Dame's Catholic atmosphere potentially could have weakened her dedication to Islam. Now, she has to work harder to remain "steadfast," she said. 
Ramadan Ameen, a senior who converted in high school to Catholicism from Islam, finds support and role models to strengthen his faith. 
wantod to 
learn about 
other reli­gions' persp()ctivos of the coursp's themes. 
Tim exploration of' other roli­gions challenges Catholics and helps thorn to define them­selves in their own religion, said Ameen, an enginnering and theology major. 
However, he said there is not enough religious discussion in most engineering classes. 
"There's no room for God in P equals ma," he said. lie added that classes should instead learn how 1.o use engi­neering principles to bolter society. 
"Notre Dame's job is to pro­duce good Catholic citizons for America," said Ameen. 

Ramadan Ameen, a senior theology and engineering major, converted from Islam to Catholicism in high school. 
Faith 
continued from page l 
that most of the students were not personally affected by divorce, likely because of their Catholic upbringing. Her class­mates seemed reluctant to dis­cuss the effect of divorce on children, Liddy said. 
Her roommate Maureen Doyle, also a Lutheran, found students were more apt to evaluate an argument in class based on Catholic teaching. "Most people just assume everyone here is Catholic." Doyle said. 
Pakhir sees strengths in learning from a Catholic per­spective. 
"A lot of people use God and· the Bible ... as a topic of con­versation lin their classes!," l<'akhir said. "I think it's a posi­tive [aspect].'' 
Discussing God would be "taboo" at a public university, she added. ''[That discussion] helps [students] to evaluate who they are.'' 
Despite practicing a religion different than most here, Notre Dame has not altered Doyle's Protestant faith. 
"[Notre Dame! has such a good moral standing," Doyle said. "I knew I could come here and still practice my faith. ... I like going just to worship in general." 
Doyle and Liddy attend Catholic Mass now, though nei-

Student & Fae/Staff /Family Tennis Clinic 
Monday, November 15 6:00-7: l 5pm Eck Tennis Pavilion 
Stroke Analysis & Ploying Situations 
Presented by : Men's & Women's Varsity Tennis Teams Free ofcharge • Open to all Dependants 23 years ofage andyounger No advance registration necessary • Bring your own Racquet Tennis Shoes Required • No Running Shoes Allowed 

For more information, please call the RecSports Office at 1-61 00 
MARY CALASH/The Observer Ayana Fakhir said she wanted to keep her Muslim religion while attending a Catholic university. Keeping her faith, she said, has helped her to educate students about her religion's beliefs. This sign adorns the wall of her McGlinn dorm. 
CLARIFICATION 
An article in Thursday's Observer reported that, at a Saint Mary's Board of Governance meeting, students are waiting for Student Activities Board approval for a study day proposal. 
Students have already received endorsement from Student Activities Board for the proposal. 
The Observer regrets the error. 
Turtle Creek 

Parking By Permit Only 
Friday 4:00 p.m. to 
Sunday 6:00 p.m. 
Towing By Mark's Towing 1505 W. Sample South Bend, IN 46619 


------------------~------------------------...., 
orld 

Friday, November 12, 1999 COMPILED FHOM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
---------~=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-================================================================================================== 
AFP Photo 
Members of the Columbian police bomb squad investigate the remnants of a car bomb that detonated on Thursday. No one has claimed responsibility for the bomb, which exploded in a Bogota commercial district. 
Car bomb kills eight, injures 45 
-_-_··-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_ 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Compromise plan rejected 
BELI.AST 
NorUwrn Ireland's major British Protestant parly, narrowly votnd Thursday against a rnmpromist~ plan designed to make thn (;oorl (.'riday pnarn arcord work. Tho Ulster Unionists' sucrnl 14-1 :{ votu marked a sovure sc•thack nl ii t·riti!'al momPnt for Ulster Unionist lnadn David Trimble. who has spent 1.lw past IO WPPks trying to rnsolvo his party's ('01Jf'rontalio11 with thn IH1\-li11kPd Sinn Fnin party. Tlll' n•jnch:d draft proposals. mr,diatnd hv Anwrican diplonrnl G1wrg11 Mitchnll, hinged oi1 a conciliatory hut noncommittal slatnmont ol'f'1H·Pd by llw lrisll liepublican Army. i\crnrding to lllstN Unionist. sour<'.11s. the out­law('d group's slatr'.nwnt emphasized commit­nwnt to its I 'J97 e1•asc-f'irn -but made no ovr•rt promis1• to disarm as tlrn Ulster l lnio11isls lmv,~ long dc111andcd. Talks among rvtit.1·lwll. Trimhl1• Dnrl Sinn Ft-in loaclnr (;(\rJ·y Adat11s rr•s1111JPd 11ftr•r thn votP. 
Banner doesn't fly with NAACP 
COLUMBIA 
Tlw Ni\i\CI' stood linn in its plan lo boycott South Carolina until tlw Confo<lNate battle flag is rnmovPd l"nm1 tlw Statehouse dome, snulihing Lill' gowrnor who offnrnd to fight for a Hnv. Marlin Lutlwr King Jr. holiday if the tourism boycott was callod off. The boycotl will t,,,gin with tlw ,ww yoar and "will be aug­mt•ntf'd hy other action as necessary," the NAi\CI' said in a writWn stalnnrnnt. At least KO grin1ps have canceled conventions and 11101,tings in the state since the boycott was a111wunwd. South Carolina is thn only statp, to fly the rPhel hanrrnr above its Capitol. Its opponents maintain the banner is a symbol of racism and slavery. Supporters say it rnpre­stmts Southern lrnritagn. Democratic Gov. Jim Ilodgtis propos1id the holiday-for-boycott swap Wednesday during an Equal Opportunity Day hanqu<'L 
Afgan men protest U.N. 
!SLAMAB/\D, Pakistan 
St:tffl'S of Afghan men railed against the Unit1id Nalions and the Lnited States Thursday in a second day of protests against pcmding economic sanctions, officials said. Bnardncl men shouted slogans in the capital of llnrat provilll'.<i Thursday, condemning U.N. sanctions, which wifl go into effecl Sunday unlPss tlw Taliban rnligious army Lurns over suspected L<\lTorist Osama bin Laden to stand trial 011 lnrrorism charges. Demonstrations wnrn abo lwld in tlw wPstf'l'n town of Farah and U.N. staff in tlw nasU1rn town or Khowst hav,: !men advised to brace for similar cJ,, 11H111strations on Friday, U. N. spokesman Frncl Eckhard said in l\nw York. On W(1d11csdav. thousands of men burned U.S. nags and 'throw stonns and bricks al U.N. offices in soutlwrn Kandahar, tlrn Taliban IH·11dquart<'rs. No one was injured. said SlPplrnnil' Bunker, a U.N. spokeswoman in rwighboring Pakistan. 
•iiiriiiMit«NJMiHI• 
Dow AMEx: 
819.23
]ONES +J.42 10,595.30 Nasda(J: 
n 
3,197.29 ·~ 1.3~ 
:'IIYSE 
V 
629.39 10.37 

S&P 500: 
C'omposite
1,381.46 Volume:-2.44 18.00 1,124,196,340 
VOLUME LEADERS 
t;QtUa.11~ X:IC&uiB li ,ww111 ~ i;;&W{Hi ER.ls;;I 
P&I.L CONl1J'l'IR MICftOfiOPT CORi' JlITI: AICI CORP  DSt.I....,.,,......  tt,83 ....s, +.19. fl 1  -+a.oo.a~ +;1.·•no ... 1. 0650  U,28 a,.n 34.. 05  
CftART ¦ R CONM~Ct.  cffT•  -t2,00  +O, 5000  30 ,91  
UNI'HD PA.11.Cl:L  UPS  +B.tl  +5. 1500  48.30  
ci:aco 9YSTZMS  CBCO  •'S .3 5  ..... 2500  27. 159  
COMPAO !ICUUIOF'T' INC  CPQu,'t'  ,i,J.55 t-101 . .1,  +o. 5500 +4..U5CI  2,, 60 21,91  
1;1,1\ff!". ONlt: C01lP  0"11  -o, 01  -0.0050  17, 53  
LtJcrN"'!' n.cH INC  LO  -o.,o  -o. 37.50  11.09  

COLUMBIA 

Associated Press 
BOGOTA 
Reviving memories of a bloody era when drug lords sowed terror to avoid extra­dition to the United States, a car bomb ripped through a Bogota commercial dis­trict Thursday, killing at least eight people and injur­ing 45. 
The shrapnel-packed bomb, placed in. a red Mazda sedan and bel-ieved detonated by remote con­trol, destroyed a two-story house and a restaurant on a wide avenue and blew out the windows of banks, stores and apartment build-
ITALY 
Apartment collapses, traps families 
effort rn:iarlv cost them their Associated Press 
lives, said building superin­tendent Luigi Laconta, who FOGGLi\ ran from the building with !\ six-story apartment the family at the last minute. building came crashing "! took a step back, think­down upon 24 sleeping ing I could see someone stick households in southern Italy their head out the window," nn Thursday, trapping thHm Laconta said. "Instead, I saw in a 1.'i-foot-high heap of the entire building crumple." concrete and dust. Onlv one Hy nightfall. authorities family escaped intact, fleeing had accounted for only 17 witb seconds to spare after a survivors out of the 70 to 75 frantic attempt to save th1c~ir people believed to be inside. neighbors, The latest, a young man, Wakened bv the sound of wa.s pullt>.d out more than the building shaking iL,;;elf' to nine hours after thp, last sur­pic,ces, the family of five nm vivor had bf1en found. Aller apartment to apartment, a day of seeing·only covered ringing doorbells and bodies on gurneys go by, the pounding on doors. The dusty search crews stopped 
ings nearly a quarter mile away. 
It was the Colombian cap­ital's worst blast since the wave of terror by the Medellin cocaine cartel in the late 1980s and early 1990s aimed at stopping the extradition of its mem­bers to the United States. The campaign only ended with the cartel's 1993 demise. 
The new attack came a day after the Supreme Court approved the second handover in a week of a major alleged drug traffick­er to the United States ­and Colombians feared it was a blunt warning to the government not to go ahead with more than three dozen planned extraditions. 
"You get the feeling the wolf is raising its ears again," said Miguel Maza, a former head of the state security agency. Maza headed the agency in 1989, when a bomb placed by traffickers leveled its head­quarters, killing 80 employ­ees in the single most dev­astating attack of the era. 
Colombia is the world's No. 1 cocaine exporter and a growing heroin supplier. 
U.S. officials have pres­sured authorities here to extradite drug kingpins for trial in U.S. courtrooms, where they face much stiffer sentences than in 
digging to applaud the res­cue, shouting. "He's alive!" 
Searchers recovered 13 corpses, wheeling them out under green sheets with bro­ken limbs dangling. 
Paramilitary police Capt. Antonio Di Spazio said he feared about 50 people had been killed. 
Many may have died on the stairs, trying to escape. 
Authorities suspect a structural failure brought down the :-W-year-old build­ing. Some residents said workers had been renovat­ing a garage undernnath; Di Spazio said that would be investigated. 
In Rome, politicians urged Colombia. 
This violent country's leaders have traditionally been loath to do so and there has not br,nn an extradition for nine yoars. But President Andres Pastrana pledged to resume handovers after his election last year, hoping for U.S. support in confronting thn illegal drug trade and leftist rebels. 
Pastrana responded to Thursday's bombing dPf"i­antly, signing decrees hours later that would extradito to 
the  United  States  a  
Colombian  and  a  
Venezuelan  accused  of'  

being ma_jor drug traffick­ers. 
Parlianrnnt to push through a proposed law that would make buildings subj,ict to periodic inspections. 
"It is absurd that cars must undergo pr,riodic checkups while buildings don't," said Cristina Matranga, a lawmakor for the opposition Forza Italia party. 
Emnrgnncy crnws evacuat­ed an adjoining building in thi~ neighborhood, a clustnr of tidy, well-knpt apartnwnt blocs in the city of' 150,000. Awakerrnd in the night by tho crash and then by screams. ,rnighbors packnd balconies to watch the day­long rescue effort. 
page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 12, 1999 
West: Dante's women vary in poetry 

By KYLE ANDREWS 
News Wriccr 
Although the four major women in Dante and Montale's poetry are often grouped into two categories, the lines aren't as dis­tinct as they seem, said Rebecca West, professor of Italian litera-. ture at the University of Chicago. 
West spoke of the differences and similarities among the women in the poetry of Dante and Montale in her Thursday lec­ture, "The Other Woman" in Dante's and Montale's "Poetic Itineraries." 
Montale (18%-1981 ), an influ­ential modern Italian poet pub­lishing for much of' the 20th cen­tury, received the Nobel Priw in 197!3.. , 
"The feminine poetic beloved is typically read as one of a pair ­the one who loves and the women loved," West said. 
The beloved is seen in the poet­ry of Dante and Muntale as tran­scendent, existing on a higher plain. Because or this absence from everyday life, the poet is· forced to create her presence in poetry. 
"It takes the loss of her earthly presence to grip her greater 
South Bend-bound plane crashes 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
A small plane carrying three passengers crashed into Lake Michigan immediately after takeoff Thursday, aviation officials said. 
Divers were searching the submerged plane for sur­vivors late Thursday. It crashed upon departure from Meigs Field, a single-runway airport near Chicago's Loop. 
The King Air 200 twin: engine turbo prop went into the water at about 8:30 p.m., a Coast Guard petty officer said. Chicago Aviation Department spokeswoman Monique Bond said the plane had three passengers on board. 
Chicago firefighters, police and Coast Guard workers were on a rescue and recov­
"It was just a loud splash ofsome kind. I didn't know what happened.I thought it was a car crash." 
Joseph Zannelli witness 
ery mission, Bond said. The plane was submerged in about ·22 feet of water about 100 yards off shore, said Chicago Pire Department spokesman Bill Norris. 
"It was just a loud splash of some kind," Joseph Zannelli, who was near the airport at the time, told WGN-TV. "I didn't know what happened. I thought it was a car crash." 
Bond said she did not know 
r --·-------------... , ~ UH3clr IVtic1z,es J 
"Contemporary Hair Styles 7 Days A Week" 
(219) 271-7674 1811 South Bend Ave• South Bend, IN 46637 

TANNING
$2.00 OFF 
SESSIONS
HAIRCUT! 
10 FOR $10 
WALKING DISTANCE TO CAMPUS 
(coupon expires 12/10199)
L ________________ J 
who owns the plane or where it was destined. Meigs shut down for the night as rescue crews swarmed the area and helicopters hovered overhead. The airport normally closes at 10 p.m. 
Conditions were fine at the time of takeoff, Bond said. She said she did not know what could have caused the crash. 
Meigs Field sits on Chicago's lakefront near the Adler Planetarium, Field Museum and Shedd Aquarium. 
meaning," West said. In Dante, the transcendent woman was Beatrice; in Montale, it was a woman referred to as Clizia. 
This image crnated by the poets is complicated by other, more earthly feminine forms. A look at these women, for Dante a woman named Petra and for Montalc a woman named Volpe, helps create a deeper under­standing of the feminine symbolic in the poet's writing, said West. 
The two types of women are usually placed in contrast, with Beatrice and Clizia presented as salvational, Wflst said. Volpe and Petra arc usually seen as earthly and terrestrial, the opposite of the transcendent pair in error and sin. 
Although marked as opposites, the four women, in fact, share many attributes and played a sig­nificant role in the development uf the poets' work. 
"Petra is not as far t'rom Beatrice as first might seem to be the case," West said of the pair's relationship. "There begins a process of blurring the opposi­tions." 
Petra is marked by harsh style and energy, and is used by Dante to express his interest in mortali­ty. She also has cosmic and mythical associations. on a high­er than stylistic level, that portray her as a precursor to Beatrice. 
"She should not be seen as an excuse for stylistic expression," added Wost. The earthly women, then, are preparations for the transcendent women, she said. 
The four women am all femi­nine figures of great power, who the poets depend upon in their. search for their authentic self and their push to discover the potential and limits of pbetry in undorstanding experience. 
"The way the poetic figures work is as a presence ol' absolute difference, both gender cliffor­ence and a difference in tornis of' a cosmically charged quality," West said. 
Considcrnd a leader in the liold of' Italian contemporary litera­ture, West has published "Eugenio Montahi, Poet on the Edge" (1981) and "Montalc, Profota de! Postmodcrno" ( 1<)IJ8). She also is the co-editor of' "Women's Voices in Italian litPra­turn" (1989). 
West's lecture was the last l(1e­ture in a series of three spon­sored by the Notre Dame Dovers Program in Dante Studies titled "Dante and Modern Italian Poetry,'' 

Exploring Attitudes About Appearance and Eating Habits 
University Counseling Center 
631-7336 Room 300 Tuesdays, 4:00-5:00 p.m. 
Drop-In/Discussion Series 
Attend One Or All Of The Following Sessions (No Sign-Up Needed) 
Session I: 
Private Body Talk: Enhancing Body Image November 16 
Session II: 
"I don't have an eating disorder ... yet!" Feeling Trapped When You Compare Yourself To Others November 23 
Session Ill: 
Living In A World Where Being A "Plus Size" Is A Minus: Strategies For Self-Acceptance November 30 
. ,_________ 
hiday, November 12, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Stern: Varied memories create paradox 
By KATE STEER 
News Writer 
Mnrnori11s am crnawd to serve many porpmms, good and bad. said Steve Stern in a lecture Thursday. Mnmorins glorify, tear down, unify and ~Pparate, Im said. 
St11rn. who hails from the l'.niv11rsity of Wisconsin­Madison, visiWd Notre Oame to spi•ak about thn imagn of Chile umlcr lhn l'inoc!wt regime. 
"Memories are a procnss. They arP llw hridgi•s that rwople build with Lim past," Stt1rn sa.id. 
This prncnss, which started in 11)73 wlrnn Urn Pinochet rngime camn into powiir and continued until he stcppod down in 1998, has resultnd in many connicting rnnrnµls of the poriod. 
Stf'rn poinuid to thrne divi­sions of this time period. which each r1iprusrn1t differnnt ways of thinking about tlrn past. 
"Between 1973 and 1983, in tlrn 10 years following tlrn mili­tary coup, umblernatic memories wero tri1,d out aJJd pushed into 1Jublic domain." hl~ said. l\fomory as salvation is the main concopt that nip resents these 10 years. 
The next period, from 1983 to 1988 is charactnrizod by a mem­ory frnc-for-all. During this time, il is unclear what memories were adopted. 
"The period hPtween 1988 and 1998 is a time of the final mak­ings of' memory as impasse," StHrn said. Wh(m people look back now, these are the memo­ries that are extant. 
"When people reflect on the years under Pinochet, or on any period,: t)1ey foc~s o~ ,memory­
knots. Stern said. Ihese arc symbolically charged people and places that shake us out of our unthinking llow of daily life." 
Memory, Stern said, is like a b,ix. /\ closed box represents times when there is a deliberato attcmpl to deny or create memo­ries lo embody certain ideals or emotions. 
"From 197 8 to 1983, there is a closed-box menlalitv." he said. "Memory is an insti'tutionaliza­tion of a long-term fulure for the regime." 
Wh1\11 the box is open. he said, thorn is an ability to deal with the true memories. The release of lruth in the case of Chile caused the revelation of' the dic­tatorship. 
"The struggle over memory created a profound impasse -a breach between cultural and military memory," Stern said. This cunllict makes reconciling with the past very dif'licult for the people ol'Chile. 
"How many of those crises of memory can the culture with­stand while making their democ­ratic transition?" he asked. 
The nature of memory and the different ways of viewing the past have created a paradox in Chilean culture, he said. The people create an ordinary, tran­quil, amnesia-ridden culture where the truth and tumult of the past arc denied. A fow weeks later there is a massive convul­sion of the people in react.ion to factual memory, he added. 
"Methodologically, it's tho human performance, the reac­tions that give us our picture of Pinochet's Chile," Stern said. 
Stern's lecture, "The Memory Box of Pinochet's Chile: Truth Struggles and the Age of Politicirle, 19H-l998," was sponsored hy the Kellogg Institute. 
NOW OPEN 
Bombay Boutique 
Edison Plaza• 1635 Edison Road• Corner of Edison and 23 • Next door to LULA'S CAFE 271-8865 Monday-Saturday 10 am -8 pm Sunday 12 pm -6 pm 

Large Selection Of: 
• 
v\V\iq l.,\e d l"'esses1 ski ds1 aV\d blouses fV'om castAal to ele9aV\t 

• 
t-laV\d-kV\it sweaters, jackets1 


gloves, mitteV\s1 caps fl"'om 
e.cuado V' 
• 
Bedspl"eads fV'om JV\dia • Silvel"' l"iV\9s aV\d eaV'V'iV\9s 

• 
Shids fol" meV\ 


• 
B~·oV\ze BIAddhas aV\d 0th.el" l"eli9ious C\l"t 

• 
T..=JClfJ):'V'US paiV\tiV\9s fl"o~Y\ 


t.fJYF-,+ 
• 
JV\celr\se aV\d 1V\cense holdel"'s 

• 
f-lC\nd-cC\¥ved woodeV\ bo;xes 

• 
S+oV\e coYviV\gs 

• 
f-lnV\d-co¥ved maho9aV\V aV\d 


~ ,I.­
teak ful"V\ituV'e 
• AV\d . Y\uch mol"e! 

Gift Certificates Available 
page 7 
AluD1nae provide career advice 
By NELLIE WILLIAMS 
News Writer 
As a small women's liberal arts college, Saint Mary's College offers the advantage of strong alumnae relations with students. 
"Alumni networking is very valuable," said director of Alumnae Relations Barb Henry. "Although we don't have a per­centage, we know a good num­ber of students get a job through an alumnus." 
On Monday, a business department panel discussion with former Saint Mary's stu• dents gave advice to current students planning to pursue business careers. 
"I believe that the 
"Ambition plays a big
alumnae took Mary's and a genuine part in it. Don't stress for can give the 
interest in the the job you have, but the students 
concerns of information
job you want."
the attending for working students an<l at their com­provided Joann Searfoss panies," said them with Jolanta
associate, Crowe Chizek and
useful Szurnial,
Company LLP
advice," said career ser­
tion I received here, and thosr, are the kind of teachers we would like to hire," DeHicco said. 
Technology Servicns Group is a small consulting firm located in Chicago. This is its first yoar recruiting at Saint Mary's. 
"I am really excited to be back here," said alumnus Sarah Wolfert. "Our company sees the benefits of working with a small college." 
The interaction with alumnae helps not only the alumna look­ing for a comfortable start-up base, but also companies of alumnae looking for qualifind graduates. 
"It's extremely important because studnnts feel comfort­able with alurnnmi and alumna!' are familiar with Saint 
student Shana Jackson, who helped organize the panel. "The alum­nae did an excellent job of pro­viding interested students with insight as to what they encoun­tered upon graduating and entering the work force as well as things they encountered upon first starting out in their fields." 
The alumnae spoke about the importance of good communi­cation, persistence and respon­sibility. When entering the work force, speakers advised students to set priorities and to stay involved with activities out-,ide of work. 
"You can have an academic degree, but it takes more than that to be successful," said Joann Searfoss, an associate for Crowe Chizek and Company LLP. "Ambition plays a big part in it. Don't stress for the job you have, but the job you want." 
"( would say in order to be successful, you need to first realize what success means to you," said Erin Emig, who works with AIDS Ministries. "You have to have ambition and persistence. No one is going to hand it to you." 
Cathlynn Howe said that it is very important to contact as many people as possible 
vices secre­tary. 
Jen Pelic. a 1999 graduate of Saint Mary's, now works for Arthur Anderson, and account­ing and consulting firm. Since Arthur Anderson works directly with Saint Mary's, she did not have to contact alumnan about the job. 
Instead, when they found out Pelic was internsted in working for the company, tlrn alumnae contacted her. 
"When you're dealing with alumnae, you feel a lot more comfortable." Pelic said. "They're willing to answer questions honestly and student'i can get the inside of the compa­ny." 
Pelic says that one of the rea­sons her company recruit'i Saint Mary's students is because they are excellent in writing and communication skills. 
"We have that wnll-roundness that some other collegei. lack," Piilic said. 
Many students, as well, feel that alumnae interactions are helpful. Junior Colleen Carny said it's great to have alumnae to contact if necessary. 
"Since I'm a junior, I'm just trying to get an idea of what I want to do," Carey said. She plans to con­tact alumnae 
when investi­"The networking is in the future. gating a cer­M a r i e
phenomenal. It is one of
tain job. Wartinbne, a
the strengths ofthis
"Try to get senior, plans internships campus. to do alum­and try and nae resource contact alum­networking
Marie Wartinbee 
ni," said on the Howe, who Saint Mary's senior Internet. 
works for Eli 
Lilly and Company. 
Thursday, the Counseling & Career Development Center and the student govPrnment board, co-sponsored a Showcase or Careers with representatives from 40 organizations. some of whom were alumnae. 
Many alumnae believe con­tacting student<; at Saint Mary's is an important aspect of thcir jobs. Alumnafl want to give stu­dents helpful advice for any career they choose. 
Mary Ellen (Mosher) DeRicco, a Saint Mary's alumna, now works for School District U-46. The Showcase of Careers was her second visit t.o Saint Mary's to recruit students. 
"I know what kind of educa­
"Them is a powerful conn1iction lrntw!len students and alumnao," Wartinbne said. "The rrntwork­ing is plrnnornnnal. It is 01111 of the strengths of' this campus." 
Alumna Mary Lauck works for LaPorte Government. She not only tries to r11cruit studnnts but also to educate thnm about prison ministry and social work. 
"I am working as an advocate for children and single moth­ers," Lauck said. "!low do you know where you am going to be 20 years from now?" · 
Lauck said she never imag­ined herself where she is today and said she is "not done." It is an important job of alurnnan to help students with their futurns, she said. 
page 8 The Observer . LOCAL NEWS f riday, November 12, 1999
r 
RUN FOR A LIFE 
Blue Chip will deal out proceeds 


Got ne-ws? 1-5323. 
MIKE HARRIS/The Observer 
The Mara Fox Fun Run, an annual event sponsored by Lyons Hall, will take place on Saturday, Nov. 13. The Run is in honor of Mara Fox, a Lyons Hall freshman who was killed by a drunk driver on Nov. 13, 1993. The event1 open to all, includes a campus run and breakfast, and participants receive Fun Run T­
shirts. 
SALON NOUVEAU 
Celebrate a friend's 21st with a birthday ad. 
PRESENTS 
11 
DOWNUNDER 11 
DOMVI nv1 o EI:! II :s4.so All Shows Before 6 pm • Advance Ticket Sales Available ::J' 6.. 
II 
_' 

· All Times for Nov. 12th-14th 
: Pokemon  (G)  Digital  
{I0:45 I:20] 3:50 6:20 8:45  
[11:15 1:50] 4:20 6:50  
Lii:ht it Up  tR)  Digital 
I11:401 2:15 45() 7:20 9:50  
Anywhere hut Here  (PC-131  Digital  
[12:50 3:40) 6:40 9:~0  
The Insider  (RJ  Digital  
I12:301 3:45 7:00 10: 15  
[L45! 5:05 8;20  
House on Haunted Hillt R)  Digital  

[!2:00 2:4015·10 7:40 I0:00 !\ringing Out The Dead (R) Digital I0:05 
• DoubleJ~opanly (R) Digital [2:50] 5:30 8:10 10:35 
....... ·-,,,.,... ___,._. ,,....., ...,= .... ,,,, •• '""'"...,..., ........................... ... 
SCOTTSDALE 6 
Scottsdale Mall • 299~5063 
) 'foaching Mrs. Tingle 
(PC-13) 1I :40] 4:20 7: JO 9:40 Drive Me Crazy (P(;.J3) [ I :50] 4:50 7:30 9:50 Dudley Do Right (PG) 11:30) 4:00 7:00 9:20 
Sat, Sun Matinees in [BrackelsJ The Messenger: 
Joan of Arc  (R)  Digital  
112:40] 4:00 7:15  10:20  
floj!l1m  (Rl  
[2:001 4:45 7:30 10:IO  
Omega Code  (PG)  Digital 
I11:30 i:551 4:30 7:05 9:<Ul  
111c Hone Collector  (R)  Digital  
[11:50 2:30] 5:15 7:50 10:25  
The Bachelor  .  (PG-131  Digital  
ll:301 4:00  6:50 9:30  
Musicof'theHeart  (PG-13)  Digital  
[l:3014:10 7:10 9:45  
The Sixth Seme  . fPG-13)  Digital  
[2:201 5:00 7:25 9:55  
Best Man  (R)  Digital  
[1:401 4:40 8;00 I0:40  

ONLy $1 00 All Show, BelOfe 6 pm
• Everyone• Everyd<iy 
$1.50 All Evening Shows 
TI1e Haunting 
[l:101 4:IO 6:50 9:30 Deep Hine Sea 
[2:001 4:40 7:20 10:00 Inspector Gadget 
(1:20] 4:30 6:40 8:50 U-Wire 
MICHIGAN CITY, Ind. 
Michigan City Mayor Sheila Brillson drives a hard bar­gain. 
That's what officials with Boyd Gaming Corp. would undoubtedly say concerning the company's new deal to pay the city a portion of receipts from the Blue Chip Casino there. 
Boyd had been negotiating with Blue Chip Casino Inc. to acquire the properly, and beefed up its promised pay­ment to Michigan City in order io boost the chances that the sale would go through. 
It did. 
"I would say it's a most signif­icant improvement." said Brillson. 
Under the deal, Boyd will make payments base.cl on a slid­ing scale. subject to a minimum $1 million per year. 
In addition, .the casino will make annual $300,000 pay­ments until a competing gam­bling business comes Vlithin 80 miles of the riverboat, and buy an abandoned public-housing development adjacent to the casino, demolish the buildings and donate the land to the city for use as a park or other recreational facility. 
The company promisod to make charitable contribu­tions. as well. 
"[The deal] shows what 
single $750,000 payment to the city this year, Brillson said, which is one-third lnss than the owners of Grand Victoria Casino & Resort pay Rising Sun, Ind. in economic development incentives, for example. 
At the time the original deal 
goud part­ners they will 
"Our goal is to more
be," Brillson 
fairly share in the
said. It also may revenue, to take into show how 
account the revnue 
anxious Boyd 
of the boat. " 
was to cement the deal. The 
Ron Gifford 
Indiana 
lawyer
Gaming Commission approved the sale on Monday, just hours ings. 
was inked, the casino argued that it was facing imminent competition from Indian land-based casinos in Michigan. which, they argufld, would squeeze cam-
after both sides reached the new agreement. 
Among all of Indiana's riverboats, the payment and incentive package to Michigan City from Blue Chip Casino Inc. was the skimpiest, amounting to one-half percent of adjusted gross receipts. 
That would have produced a 
But that nevm· materializerl, Brillsun said. Instead, lhe Blue Chip Casino has been one of the most profitable in the state. 
Said Hon Gifford, a lawyflr helping Michigan City: "Our goal is to more fairly share in the revenue. to take into account tlir1 revenue of' the boat." 
[ ­
~rnrtINJr~o~ J~lNI~O~J~ 
If there may be a reason you are not listed as a junior by the r~gistrar, and you still wish to participate in Junior Parent's Weeknd, pick up a form in the JPW office in the mezzanine of tafortune student center. 
Some possile circumstances may be: 
* you were abroad last spring 
• you have sophomore/senior hours 
* special needs 
Also, if you would like to be entered into the lottery drawing for reservations for your parents for the Morris Inn the week­end of JPW, stop by the Morris Inn before Nov 22 to fill out and submit an application. 
· 
i 
'. 
: 
: 
i 
Our new Campus Salon Lower Level LeMans Hall, Saint Mary's 
Open Tuesday-Friday 12:00 P.M. -8:00 P.M. Saturday 10:00 A.M. -7:00 P.M. 
An Aveda Concept Salon 
;1 6­
284-5363
(PG-13) (R) 
I 
Hair -Skin -Make-up -Nails -Waxing -Tanning
(PG) 
Friday, November 12, 1999 The Observer . RELIGION NEWS page 9 
Wedding trial key to Church future 
a lesbian couple in his Omaha sanctity of Urn marriage
. United Methodist 
congregation. covenant that is expressed inChurch charges In a case that drew interna­love, mutual support. personalminister for tional att1mtion and plunged the commitment and shared fidelity 
United between a
marrying gay couple 
Methodists man and a
"It's going to be a very
into a debate woman over church critical General Cernmonies
By KEVIN O'HANLON 
Assncia1ed l're.ss Wrirer doctrine, Conference." that celebrate 
Creech was homosexual 
tried and unions shall
LINCOLN. Neb. 
acquitted by a Kathryn Johnson not be con­As Lim lhw . .Jimmy Crench 
chureh jury on Methodist Federation ducted by our
1>rnpar,•s lo bn Lrind ·a second charges or dis­ministnrs and
for Social Action
timn hy tho United Motho<list 
ob n yin g
Church ror pnrrorming a gay 
church rules.
111arriagP. many. rneI thn f'uturn 
Crncch was not roappointed to 
or 1lw nation·s spcoml-largost 
his pulpit and is on a voluntary
Protnstant dnnominalion hangs 
lnave of absencn. lie lives in
in tlui halancn. 
North Carolina, but he still is a
"It is not nbout me. It's about 
membnr of the Nnbraska clergy
inslitutionaliznd bigotry and llrn 
and is answerabln to Nebraska
drnrch using its institutional 
Bishop Joel Martinez. 
pownr to m11'orcP 'discrimination 
Crnech 's second trial stems
and p,irS(!('.U[ion or gay and IPS­
from a "union cernmony" he
bian pPoph.•," C:n•nch said. "Tho 
perl'ormecl for two gay mlrn in
trial is an act 
Chapel Hill. 
or violPncn 
N.C .. earlier
against gay "11w trial is an act <l 
this year.
and lnsbian 
violence against gay and But there is
Jll'Ol)II'," 
lesbian people. " a difference
i\ jury of 1:i 
this time. 
ministNs will 
At the time
dncidn Rev. Jimmy Creech of Creech 's
C:r1iPch's fatP 
on trial for marying gay couple first trial in
af'tnr a two­day trial s1\l lo b n g i n w,~cl,wsday in Grand Island. 
Cn•1wll and his supporters say that if' thn chureh does not lwconrn morn opnn to gays and lnshians. many of its 'J.:i million nwmbnrs could loave. possibly forming a rrnw denomination. 
"It's almost innscapable that sonuwrrn is going to be gone." said Hev. (irngory Drdl. a Methodist ministor in Illinois who is snrving a suspension for p(irforming a sanrn-snx ceremo­ny. "Tlw otlwr side has been saying. Tim difforences arc too grPat -you have to go.'" 
Crnerh first drnw thn ire of' church oflicials in I<J<J7 when he pcrformml a union ceremony for 
Kearney, the 
church's ban on performing samn-sex com­mitment ceremonies was listed in the denomination's Social Principles, which are printed in thn Book of' Discipline. 
Them was debate over whether the Social Principles carried the weight of church law, like thn Book of' Discipline. 
The church's Judicial Council, which interprets the Book or Discipline much like the U.S. Supremo Court interprets the Constitution, has since ruled that the Social Principles carry thn weight of law. 
Whiln Creech believes it is wrong to deny rights to gays and lnsbians. the Social Principles state: "Wn affirm the 
shall not be 
conducted in 
our churches." 
Other denominations have struggled with the issue of homosexual practice. Earlier this year, for example, leaders of the 2.6-million-member Presbyterian Church rejcctnd a measure that could have led to the ordination of non-celibate gays and lesbians. 
Creech said he will defend himself this lime around. 
"I believe that this whole process is not legitimate, and 1 do not intend to eooperale fully with the process of the trial," Creech said. 
If convicted, Cre1~ch faces a wide range of possible punish­menl'i, inrluding dismissal from the United Methodist clergy. 
The issue is expected to be considered by the church's General Conference, which is to meet next year in Cleveland. The conference includes clergy and lay delegates from across the nation. and is the body that sets chureh policy. 
"It's going to be a very critical General Conference," said Rev. Kathryn Johnson, of the Methodist federation for Social Action in Washington D.C. 
Creech agreed. 
"If the General Conference does not begin to change the direction it's been going, there are going to be large numbers of people who are going to leave," he said. 

ATTENTION STUDENTS: 
WHYSELLYOURUSEDTEXTBOOKSBACKTOTHEBOOKSTOREFOR LESS WHEN YOU CAN SELL THEM DIRECTLY TO ANOTHER STUDENT? CAMPUSMONSTER.COM ALLOWS STUDENTS TO SELL THEIR USED TEXTBOOKS TO OTHER STUDENTS. YOU WILL MAKE MORE MONEY AND YOUR FELLOW STUDENTS WILL SAVE MORE! IT'S THAT SIMPLE. 
LOG ON NOW AND LIST YOUR FALL SEMESTER TEXTBOOKS AND GET ENTERED FOR THE CHANCE TO WIN YOUR NEXT SEMESTERS BOOKS FOR FREE!!!! THAT'S RIGHT. WE WILL HOLD A DRAWING ON DECEM­BER 30, 1999 TO FIND THE WINNER OF OUR" SEMESTER FOR FREE" CONTEST. YOU WILL RECEIVE 1 ENTRY FOR EVERY BOOK YOU LIST. THE MORE BOOKS YOU LIST THE BETTER YOUR CHANCES OF WIN­NING. 
WHEN YOU'RE THERE, GET THE LATEST SCOOP ON WHAT'S HAPPEN­ING AT YOUR COLLEGE OR AT CAMPUSES AROUND THE COUNTRY. THERE'S ALSO A SECTION WITH UP TO DATE SCORES AND COLLEGE NEWS. 
FROM TEXTBOOK SWAPPING, COLLEGE APPAREL AND GAME TICKETS TO THE LATEST CAMPUS NEWS, IT'S ALL JUST A CLICK AWAY AT CAM­PUSMONSTER.COM 
PUSfflODSTDR.COffl 
"If we don't have it, you can't get it!" 
Baptists cut funds to 
U. of Richmond 
The Baptist association
. Move comes 
passed a resolution at its I<)<J:1
after school 
meeting declaring homosexual passes anti­behavior '"sinful and umtccPpt­able f'or C:hristians."
discrimination 
In a statement, Universitypolicy President William Coopnr thanked tlrn Baptists f'or their 
Associated Press 
RICHMOND, Va. 
Virginia Baptists will end annual contributions to the University of Hichmond because of what one leader calls "tacit approval" or homosexuality. 
At its annual meeting this week, the Baptist General Association of Virginia approved a "new relationship" with the private university. The group on also voted to forfeit the right to appoint a university trustee. 
The group is upset over the university's new anti-discrimi­nation policy, which bans dis­crimination against homosnxu­als. 
The ban lends "tacit approval" to homosexuality, said Reginald McDonough, executive director of' the Baptist association. 
past support and pledged to continue working with them on a Baptist lrnritage center set to op<m on campus next ynar. 
The university was founded in 1830 by the Virginia Baptist Education Society as a training school for ministers. The rPla­tionship bctwcnn Urn school and Southern Baptists has been strained in recnnl ynars on issues such as coed dorms and dancing rm campus. 
McDonough said the associa­tion's vote simply recogniznd that the university and the asso­ciation were moving in differnnt directions. 
The association agrnnd lo phasn out annual financial con­tributions to thn school ovnr three years. The donations haw amounted to about $235,000 ­loss than 1 percent or the uni­versity's budget -in recent years. 
Young takes reigns of 
U.S. church council 
By THOMAS SHEERAN Associated Press Writer 
CLEVELAND 
Former Atlanta Mayor Andrew Young is taking the top leadership job of the National Council of Churches at a time when the 
organiza­tion is struggling with bud­get and staff ~uts. 
Young, who also 

served as Young the U.S. ambas­sador to the United Nations, will serve as president of a group representing 35 denominations 
,p,.~-W--T-E-D: 
I 
Local Art Students 
Two partlime employees to work in a retail environment doing custom framing. Ideal applicants will ha\re creativity, artistic expression, skill to craft, gqod references, anda passion to work with people. 

Flexible hours, great pay, and· store discounts. 
Apply in person at FrallJ.e Factory, Scottsdale Mall or e-mail resume to .., gmdale.@a0Lc01n 
with more than 50 millions members. 
The ccrnmony today was scheduled at the Catholic Cathedral of St. John the Evangelist, highlighting the improved relations betwenn Protestant and Orthodox churches that form the council and the non-nrnmber Homan Catholic Church. 
That would have linen unthinkable wlrnn thn council was created 50 years ago, said the Hev. Joan Brown Campbnll. the council's top administrator as NCC general secretary. 
Young, 67, will givn the NCC a boost as a high-profile leadnr. The civil rights hiadnr. United Church of Christ ministnr and former congressman worked in the NCC youth department early in his career. 
7 

page l 0 The Observer . GOVERNMENT NEWS Friday, November 12, 1999 
Officials agree on Medicare increase 
Gore uses holiday for 
U.S. leadership push 
U-Wire 
DES MOINES. Iowa 
Warning about isolationist trends sweeping through Congress. Vice President Al Gore is using a Veterans' Day speech lo argufl that the Liniled Stati>s must reassert its role as an interna­l i o 11 a I leader, 
Gore alsn was calling for increased defense spending while using lhe issue to sharp­en differences with Bill Bradlev, his rival for the Democratic presidential nomi­nation. Bul he said "the change we need requires more than just strong defense." 
"It also requires American engagement with the world, and it requires American lead­Arship," Gore said in remarks prPpared for delivery today. 
In the speech, Gore laments Senate rejection of a nuclear test ban treatv that he said was "sacrificed·on the altar of partisan politics" and pointed to what he argued were trou­bling trends in Congress. 
"More and more each year, engagement abroad means a political struggle here at home," he said. "When even free and fair trade agreements that deepen the ties among nations become political foot­balls, we threaten our very sta­bility and security." · 
Gore credited the adminis­tration with helping to build a new consensus behind increased military spending, but said agreement was lack­ing on the need for effective diplomacy. 
"We have rebuilt a consen­sus in our country for a strong national defense policy, but we also need a national consensus on the other great pillar of American foreign policy ­waging peace through serious and sustained diplomacy," Gore said. 
He also argues for combining diplomacy and military policy 

Earn $$$$ from a HOT New Internet Start-up! 
SET YOUR OWN .!illlIB.Sl 
AnyLlst is a free web service !ha! lets you quickly create and customize Interactive Web Lists that allow you to collect and share information with your friends, family, and co-workers. 
Sign up today as an AnyList Associate and you'll get paid cash if you help us grow our member base. You can work from home and eam up to $1 0,000 by referring others to the service. We'll even pay you for users that they recruit In no time you could be making money from hundreds of Anylist users! 
Chee~ out the full detaiIs at: 
www.anv11stcom1joia 
®-Anylist"' 
© 1998 AnyUst Void where prohiMed. 
in one package. 
"Diplomacy together with military might is how we fight the spread of nuclear weapons in the world," (1ore said. "It is how we are breaking up dead­
ly drug cartels and crime syn­dicates around the world." 
The address is the latest 
effort by Gore to paint Bradley 
as too liberal to win the White 
House, as well as cast himself 
as a leader on the world stage. 
Bradley, a former senator, recently told a disarmament group that he saw no need to boost military spending. although his spokesman did 
not rule out pay or benefit increases. 
"Military spending should be adjusted as noedod to protect America's most vital and important interests. 1 believe current levds would suffice if the Department of Defense was led and managr1d flffectively," Bradley replied on a candidate questionnaire circulated by Star.PAC, an Iowa-based group. 
Saturd.Ity, Novemher·13 12:00 -1:30 pm 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
An agreement reached by Whitf1 House and nAgotiators on $11 billion in Medicare payment increases for health care providr,rs includes provisions that would also impact the pock­etbooks of some beneficiaries. · 
As hospital outpatient dcpart­ments get extra money from Medicare under the deal, for example, there would be a new limit on the out-of-pocket costs that beneficiaries must pay for outpatient tests or surgery. 
"For people who have big bills it could be an important change," said Patricia Smith, a obhyist for the AARP, the nation's largest organization of older a<lults. 
Medicare hospital outpatient c_opaymcnts currently vary, often exceeding the standard 20 percent that beneficiaries pay for most other services. That disparity was already scheduled to be fixed, with the government gradually paying more over the next few decades. 
Under a tentative agreement reached Wednesday by lawmak-
Illustrator.Sibyl Graber Gerig discusses the art of children's book illustration .and signs copies ofher newly collaborated book with author Marianna Dengler, entitled Ftddlin' Sam. 
Wednesday, November 17 2:30 -3:30 pm Bill Shore, founder of the non-profit organi­zation "Share Our Strength," which has raised more than $82 million to support antihunger & antipoverty worldwide since 1984, will discuss these issues and signhis new book The Cathedral Within at the Hesburgh Center ofInternational Studies. Books provided by the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 

Wednesday, November 17 
7:00 pm 
Paul tive Editor of e, will discuss and ly released amhology 
. 'Onts the Century 
Thursday> November 18 
7:00 pm• ·..•······ ., , . •·· ,~il:il ,.J1~~~hey. author of The Metcalfe -' ·''Fa. . '.Aiburnjoins us to discuss and sign copies 0£J1er. aq:;l~med new book. This is a 
' story o(~~gerier~tions of women and the ties tb'at birtd1th:em,
• '/ .~· :f ',:-.; 
z.;'··--ri: :.''(-< 
H'A MMES 
j/. ,--, ,, ..,.· ,,·-· ·,.~ .. -..,.....-·,1, 

_,,,:•:.;;),,. ,'.;.::._:. ,,,1,_+ > :·'.:=:' =·,,,_.: .,/'.___ >·-";._ 
IN 
phone: 631-6316 • www.ndbookstore.com 
ers, outpatient copayments also would immediately be limited lo the same amount as tho deductible for inpatient hospital care, $776 in 2000. 
Details aro still being worked out, but lawmakers have dis­cussed a July 1 date !"or tlrn change to take effect. 
Another part of the overall Medicare deal would lift annual caps on Medicare's rehabilita­tive therapy coverage. 
The annual caps -a com­bined $1,500 for physical and speech therapy and a sc1rn.rnfo $1,500 for occupational therapy -took ell'cct this your and have created financial hardship for some elderly and disabled patients whose needs quickly exceeded the limits. 
Under tho agreenrnnt, the caps would be lifted for two years while a study or patient needs is conductnd. 
Other changes with a direct impact on beneficiaries include extended coverage of anti-rejec­tion drugs used after organ transplants and increased pay­ments for Pap smears to ensure that women covered by Modicare have at:cess to the lat­est technology. 
Still, the bulk of' the $11 billion that would be distributed ovor five years undnr tlrn dim! reached Wednesday would go to hnalth care providers without directly affecting boneficiaries' wal11~ts. 
The agrrwrnent P.ornes after months of heavy lobbying by caregivnrs, who ar!{und that cuts imposnd by Congress in 1997 to lrnlp balance the f'cderal budget havn put too big a squoczo on the f'eos thoy get to cam l'or the 11l<lerly and disabled. 
"With this logislation, we help insuro that America's seniors recnivn high quality hoalth cam they deserve by restoring need­ed funding to hospitals, nursing homes and other health care providers," said the Senate Financ1! Committee chairman, lfopublican William Hoth of Delawarn. 
The cash rnlirf package is tlrn only action Congress plans to take I.his year on Medicare, although both Democrats and lfopublicans want more dramat· ic changes, such as adding new prnscription drug bene!Hs ror senior citiwns. 
COIIIIO¦W¦AL~.....-..= coNFRONTS' · cENTUR'Y 
I Ja • ic Tradition 
, Liberal Con..,ictions, Cdthol 
/ ,;&l,.......TIMCI rs yu.,I• ,,.;:. ~;, <.:~~ -~ ., . 
www Anylist.com/join 
Pri<lay, Novemhn l2, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Group works with farmers to become 'Partners in Progress' 
think il has a lot to do with thP But Partners in Progress goes other things. ognized that Woodbury had 
U-Wire 
fact that the people who provide far beyond what a farmer would "What's really miraculous is potential to be a profitable pro­most of lhe help understand the get from mediation services. Its that of all that money farmers ducer but neAded help turning
FAHGO, N.IJ. 
tremendous need others have at roots deep in the spiritual beliefs have loaned, they've not lost a his finances around.
It started as a challenge to his a certain time in their life." of its founders, the group seeks penny," he added. "Not one "We make the money available rrnighbors ov,ir a r.up of coffee 
Since its inception, he says, out farmers who can afford to farmer has missed a payment." to the ones we think can be
eight years agn. Sitting around a Partners in Progress has helped help those in desperate need of What the non-denominational turned around," Nelson said.
table at a morning prayer group, more than 240 farmers in North financial assistance. group expects in return is sim­"We're not going to throw goodl.ovon Nulson told his friends 
Dakota, South In eight ple. money after bad."
they nenclcd to do something to 
Dakota and years, other "When you get back on your The organization found two
help struggling farmers. "Whats really
Minnesota turn farmers feet, you're expected to make farmers to co-sign bank loans"Them wern four or five farm their opera­miraculous is that ofall often total your own contribution," he said. that Woodbury couldn't get onfamilies in our area that were tions around, strangers -"A'> proof that this type of thing his o-wn because of his debt load.
looking at going out of business that money farmers have 
saving s,weral have loaned works, the people who receive "One guy I sold a bull through
and I said. 'Wn've got to help loaned, they've not 
down from their own the help are very anxious once 20 years ago came forward andthnm. What do WI' do?'" Nelson foreclosure. lost a penny. " money or co­they're on their feet to offer help co-signed a loan," he said. 
said. 
Like state signed for themselves." Two otlrnrs loaned their ownThn rhallcinge in 1991 soon agricultural loans totaling Three years ago, four different money directly to Woodbury at
b11cam1~ Partners in Progress, a Levon Nelson
mediation ser­more than farmers came together through low or no interest.
nonprofit group of farmers who vices, Partners tanner $2.8 million. the program to help Arnie The program. Woodbury said,volunteer tlwir lime -and often in Progress "They're Woodbury, who farms near gave him the chance he necd(\d.
their own cash -to help other works with putting them­Wvndmere. Woodbury continues to pay the farmers stay alloat. 
farmers to help them better selves on the line often for total ;,I was overextended," he said, loans back and has joined
"We've had an amazing 
manage their [arms. Those who strnngers," Nelson said. "They're "too much in debt, couldn't pay Partners in Progress as the pres­,unount nl' succoss," said Nelson, can afford to pay for the services putting up money they've ear­mv bills." ident of the board of directors, a full-time Mavvilh1 farmer who arn expected to do so. marked toward retirement and he met with Nelson, who rec-doing his part to help others.
also works at t"wo area banks. "I 
OOWBOYMOUTH· 
''01\e ~c:¥ 4'-SS flVe ~,, 
~s~  
~ove~beY' 17  
.,..+, S½-ep01.\\ Ce\\tev  
(01Mh"-' oi.-\i--c.P New ov-le.,..\\5 wii-1-\ hits 1Je\\\\Y S01.ys11  i-icke½-s "'v"'tl"'\:,le "'t L"'fov-tl>.\\e I\\.Pc Desk  
01.\\J.. 1'1-\cw De Yov.. "Tell So1Mec\\e?1', Cow\:,cy 1-\cl..\H'I  CY COl.ll ,11-8' I28  
co~es ro Nctve D.,._.....,e .Pov o\\e \\i,kt o\\ly:  $IO si--L\J.e\\i--/ $12. GA  

Come see us at the following events: November 15 -6:30pm 
Information Session • To be held In the Notre Dame Room at the Morris Inn • Refreshments will be served 
November 16 
Interviews -Career Center 
Watson Wyatt is an EEO/AA Employer, M/F/DN.
resources, health care, finance, communications and 
Watson W~tr Worldwide as une uf the le,1Jing human systems. We work with organizattons of all sizes and
resources ~nnsulting finns, helping companies make their For more information on Warson Wyatt, please visit us ar: types, ranging from FortUne 500 companies to
business strntegics work through innovative appro.1ches 
www.watsoniuyatt.com
to motivate, develop, and reward people. Watson Wyatt non-profit instirutions. h.1s offic-:s in all major rnarhts worldwide with corporate Did you know? Watson Wyatt ranks #1. in the
We will be on campus to interview for 
headquarters in Bethesda, Maryland and Reij:(:lte, consulting industry for overall reputation and
Full-Time and Internship positions available 
delivering value to clients, according to an
En~and. The comp,1ny's 5,000+ associates, in over 
in offices throughout the U.S. and Canada. 
independent survey conducted by the Wall Street
90 ofhu:s worldwide, h,we acknowledgeJ expertii.e 
We arc interested in individuals seeking Journal among Its subscribers.
in a variety of disciplines. Our staff includes consultants, 
degrees in Mathematics, Actuarial Science, 
aduarics, IT professionab, investment consultants, 
and Applied Mathematics. 
attorney~ and other spec,ahsts in the areas of hull'llln 
\\ Watson Wyatt Worldwide 


See What's New at Tomass· 
Multi Topping Pizza $7.77 
Single Topping Pizza $6.97 Cheese Pizza $5.97 
Plain Breadsticks $2.37 1/2 Order $1.27 Mozzarella Breadsticks $3.27 1/2 Order $1.77 zzarella Breadsticks with 1Topping $3.77 1/2 Order $1.97 2:a, !\:1~~~arella Breadsticks, '•• •·• •··· · < •.,· ·· oke $10.77 
2 Pizzas, Mozzarella Breadsticks, iter Bottle of Coke $17.77 
underseige 
Associated Press 
STARKE, Ha. 
Florida lawmakers, who have an almost religious devo­tion to the state's electric chair, may try to protect "Old Sparky" from a U.S. Supreme Court review by giving condemned inmates the option of death by lethal injection. 
Gho'ulish images of execu­tions in Florida's electric chair have led the nation's high court to consider 
whether "Execution methods are 
they consider 
the state's 
symbols ofbigger things. "botched"exe­
melhod of 
cutions in the
The electric chair is a
execution last decade. 
is cruel and symbol ofretribution ~~d Flames shot unusual 
extreme vengeance. from the top
punish­
of Jesse 
ment. 
Tafero's head The court Deborah Denno 
·in 1990 and is sched­professor from behind 
uled to hear argu­ments in February. 
Florida House Speaker John Thrasher, a Republican, has said if the state gives death row inmates a choice, the Supreme Court may drop the case. 
When the court agreed to consider the constitutionality of California's gas chamber a few years ago, it dropped the review when the state added the lethal injection option. Lawmakers are even consider­ing calling a special legislative session to address the issue. 
The electric chair, which has been used in Florida to execute 240 men and one woman over 75 years, carries a deeper_ meaning than other forms ot execution, said Deborah Denno. a Fordham University professor and death penalty researcher. 
"Execution methods are sym­bols of bigger things. The elec­tric chair is a symbol of retri­bution and extreme vengeance," Denno said. "The electric chair is 'death penalty plus."' . 
Electric chair opponents cite 
several exam­
ples of what 
the face mask 
of Pedro Medina in 1997. Photographs taken in July of Allen Lee Davis showed a large blood stain cov­ering his white burial shirt. 
Pictures of Davis' swollen, bloodied face taken after his execution were posted on the Florida Supreme Court's Web site, resulting in more than a million visits. The Davis pic­tures are evidence in the Supreme Court appeal. 
Old Sparky was replaced before the Davis execution with a new chair that, like the 1920s original, is made of oak and has the same electrical system. 

page 12 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Friday, November 12, 1999 
' 
New rules alter organ allocation 
'Old Sparky' 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Controversial new rules changing the way scarce organs are allocated for transplant will take effect by 
January under an agreement reached by the Clinton adminis­tration and mem­
bers  of  Shalala  
Congress  
who origi­ 
nally hoµed  to  delay  the  
changes.  
The  rules  issued  by  lhe  

Department of Health and Human Services would force the Cnited Network for Organ Sharing. which runs the transplant system, to send organs to the sickest patients first, no matter where they live. 
The current system is based largely on geography and supported by many transplant centers whose lucrative pro­grams depend on locally donated organs. 
The network and its allies have strenuously fought the changes since they were first proposed nearly two years ago. But now the network plans to go along with the new rules -and propose a new way to distribute donat­ed livers by early next year. 
"We're prepared to honor the time frames and the pro­visions of the regulation," network spokesman Joel Newman said Thursday. 
Without congressional action, the new rules would take effect next week. Under the agreement struck late Wednesday, they will take effect after 21 days of public comment and another 21 days for 1-H-IS to review those comments. 
The clock will begin once the spending law is enacted, possibly as soon as n~xt week, meaning the regulation would take effect near tho end of December or in early January. 
The agreement was struck late Wednesday after HHS Secretary Donna Shalala came to Capitol Hill to per­sonally press the case anrl make clear that she would not budge. She was backed in the negotiations by Sen. Arlen Specter. U-Pa., who repre­sents transplant programs in Pittsburgh that are likely to benefit from the new rules. 
But the key, participants said, was Rep. John Porter, R-Ill., who chairs the Appropriations subcommittee that governs HHS. Porter now supports the HHS plan after vigorously opposing it last year. He changed his mind after Illinois got into a nasty dispute with Wisconsin, Minnesota and the Dakotas: Wisconsin and its neighbors did not want to share their livers with Illinois, even for the sickest of the patients, as the network had ordered on its own. 
The dispute prompted Illinois state officials and 
transplant centers to change their position and support the HHS rule, and Porter followed suit. 
Rep. David Obey, the top Democrat on the Appropriations Committee, also was backing the wishes of his home state of Wisconsin in trying to stop the regulation. He said Porter's switch made that impossible. 
"The White House wasn't going to give, Shalala wasn·.~ going to give, so we lost. Obey said Thursday. 
Originally, the regulations were ·supposed to take effect last year, but Congress delayed them twice. Last month, HHS hoped to address some of the concerns by issu­ing revisions making it clear that organs would not be wasted by being shipped coast-to-coast or futilely transplanting them into dying patients. . 
However, the new version still gives the HHS secretary ultimate power to approve or veto any allocation scheme, and it still requires an over­haul of the current system. 
But the fight isn't really over. Legislation pending in the House could strip HHS of most of its authority to over­see the transplant network, and if it became law, it could nullify these new rules. 
Shalala has said she would recommend a veto. Also, Louisiana has tried to stop the HHS regulations in court in a case that could be revived. South Carolina has threatened a lawsuit as well. 

Friday, November 12, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 13 

DO Syste~e'is inthe. business, of defiffiing the way e-business 
W' •.,._.·'': ,,.1;._._.,,;t•_-.,) • '" • :;: ... ;':,•,', ._.,-,-:
0
is done. We have raised an unprecedented quarter of a billion dollars to· become the first national eCHM application package 

We are changing the way the world works. 
Meet DC Systems, November i5th, 7:30-9:30 p.m. Room 210, Center For Continuing Education. 


IC STITUU IC HIHMI 
SOFTWARE 
College bookstores sue Varsitybooks.com 
By RACHEL OSTERMAN 
U-Wire 
IIANOVFB, N.11. 
In anotlrnr lawsuit against lnlPrrwt rntailers, tlrn National Association of Collegn Storns is suing Varsitybooks.com. accus­ing till' on-linn bookst.orn of l'alsn and mislnading advertis­ing t·.oncerning textbook dis­ro1111ts. 
Tlw association. which n1prn­st• nts about 3.000 stores around tlrn country, including t.lw Ilartmouth Bookstorn and Wiwt•lock Books. is claiming that whilP Varsitybooks.rnm advertises tnxtbooks at up to 40 pnrrnnt olT ol' "suggnsted list prirns," only a small p11rccnt­agn of tlwir books conw at that pricP. 
Acrording to tlw association. 
in the textbook industry, where publishers sell their books to college stores and oITer ,only a suggested student price, there is no such thing as a universal retail price. Instead. college stores sell textbooks at a markup price of their choos­ing. 
The case, which is .being filed in a federal court in Washington D.C., should be set­tled before this .January. the next major book-buying season. 
"I think that (the association) has an excellent chance because students are being misled regarding the number and percentage of books that come at the discount," said attorney Heed Freeman. ''In this case, the false and decep­tive claims reach every single college student in tho country by being on the Internet." 
Schools that bar ROTC keep aid 
By MIKE WF.RESCHAGIN 
U-Wire 
MINNEAPOLIS 
A recent change in a federal budget provision allows col­leges and universities to bar ROTC units and military recruiters 
from their campuses without fear of losing fed­eral stu­dent aid. 
But offi­

cials say it Frank is unlikely t h e University of Minnesota will 
Entire FAFSA available on Internet 
By TINA HONG U-Wire 
CHARLOTTESVILLE. Va. 
A Department of Education plan is encouraging more col­lege students to apply for finan­cial aid online by enabling stu­dents to send in their entire Free Application for Federal Student Aid form electronically. 
Tony Starks, Federa.l Student Aid representative from the Diipartment of Education, said that although the online FAFSA form has been available for four vears. this is the first year elec­tronic signatures could be used to fill out the application com­pletPly 011li11n. 
The new Electro11ic i\r.ccss 
act on the change and remove military staff or programs from campus. 
The military recruitment provision was tacked onto the 
U.S. DApartmcnt. of Defense fiscal-2000 budget late October. It nullifies the most controversial part of the Solomon Amendment of 1996. 
The amendment required federal agencies to cut all funding to colleges and uni­versities that bar military recruiting from tlrnir campus­
es.  
Under the  new  provision,  
federal  student  aid  is  no  
longer at risk.  

Federal research grant money. however, can still be refused to colleges that violate 
Code can be used by applicanl'i line financial aid applicationsl as a personal identification make it very fast," she said. number acting as a signature. "The paper FAFS/\ took four to 
University Financial Aid six to eight wtrnks to procnss Director Yvonne Hubbard said because thn information was 
that previ­ously even on-line applicants "still had to print out a signature page, sign it and send it out." 
Hubbard said the 
University's Ol'fice of Financial part of making financial aid eas­Aid advocates online financial ier to apply for. This is a applicalions for a variety ol' ma­rnsponse by tlw Departnwnl of sons. Education to expPctations of 
"The key here is that lthn on-today's students," slw said. 
knyed in. "'This is a response by " SO 11H' ti Ill e S tlrn information
the Department of 
was written in
Education to expecta­incorrectly. 
tions oftoday:<; students" Onlinr:, it is incwdiblv accu­ratl' and ndits
Yvonne Hubbard 
ran he made financial aid director right tlrnrn," 
she addPCI. "This is all 
the federal policy. 
Rep. Barney Frank, D-Mass .. added the language to the spending bill because he said ratification of' the Solomon Amendment as it stood was a mistake. 
"Punishing students for a university's policy is complete­ly unfair," Frank said. "In most cases, tlwy havn very lit­tle say in how their college d,eals with military recruiting." 
A spokosman for retirnd Congressman Gnrald 13.11. Solomon said tlrn amendment author was plcasnd the cor­rection was made last month. Ile added that the original budget stipulation was nnver intended to punish students for a cClllego's actions. 
IC IYHEMI IC IYIHMI 
C0NSUlT1NG EDUCATION 


VIEWPOINT 
page 14 
THE OBSERVER 
l'.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, !N 4655G 024 Somh Dining Hall, No"c D.imc, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michelle Krupa 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogero  
AsST, MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Petelle  

NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen SroRTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler 
SCENE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAINT MARv'S EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalum 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Brvan Lutz 
An DESIGN MANAGER: Bret Huelat SYSfEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kush to 
CONTROLLER: Timothy Lane GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL l:-iF0 ..............631-7471 FAX.............................................................63 l -6927 ADVERTISING ..................................... 63 l-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF..................... .-..................631 •4542 MANAGING EDTTOR/AsST. ME.................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS.......................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4 540 observer.scene. I@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO.................... ...................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB AoMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:llobserver. nd.edu for daily updares of campus news, spons, features and opinion columns, as we)! as canoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-ro-thc 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weeldy studenr reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates ofprim ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Obsetver 
articles published after 
ro meet the editors and 
staff
August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students ofrhe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration of either insrirurion. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries. letters and columns present the views of rhe authors and nor ru,cessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoim space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinjons through lecrers is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact infornution. 
Question; regardmg Observerpo/icier should be direct­ed mEditor in ChiefMichrlle Krupa 
O
THE 
BSERVER 
Friday, November 12, 1999 

Live each day as if it were your last 
The recent death of my friend Father Robert Griffin coupled with such tragic and sudden incidents like the crashes of Egyptair 990 and the Mexican Taesa flight have made this November's 
· Thanksgiving sea­son an introspec­tive one. What must it be like for those who lost entire families in those accidents? What would they say to their lost ones if they had one more chance to speak to them? 
I regret that I have not spoken to Father Griffin for years. I can only wonder what I might have said had I seen him during my visits this past football season. I can barely spec­ulate about what we said when last we spoke years ago. I had a few opportuni­ties in the past few years, but did not venture across the quad to greet him when our paths crossed. Now that "Griff'' is gone forever, 1will never be able to share a story with him about my dog, Potamus, or tell him of my experi­ences with President Clinton. Griff, for­give me one final tiine. 
I have come to the realization that we should live today like it is the last day of our lives. Had I practiced that policy, I would have spoken to Griff at least three other times. It is sobering to recall that I had failed to guard against my last time with several people since I graduated from ~otre Dame. 
About 20 years ago, my Notre Dame friend, Kevin Walsh. had his name list­ed in the Alumni magazine's obituary colurun. He was a freshman when I was a senior and we both worked at the campus radio station. We were the irreverent ones, always upsetting the student managers. To this day, I do not know how he died. I have always regretted that I did not say more ... just one more time before he died. He was as true and loyal a friend as any trust­ing dog is of his master. Kevin, forgive me again. 

Twenty years ago my Grandma Ciccone passed away. She was 88 at the time but for years before her passing, I contemplated the event and was ready for the news every time the phone rang at some strange hour. Some of my col­lege friends had met her and felt her love and generosity. It would have been nice for Kevin Walsh to have met her, but they both left this world about a year apart. I take comfort in thinking that Grandma probably has baked Kevin several loafs of bread by now. 
My grandma was of strong Italian stock that withstood pain and age until one day in late summer. That spring she had almost gone into a diabetic coma and had lost her eyesight, but she made a strong recovery. During her recovery, I went to visit her, held her hand and spoke to her. Although she was blind, she knew who I was, and by mid-summer was out in the yard with her garden. She told me that the. doc­tors ·could not find her problem because she had "brown sugar." 
I was lulled into thinking that she would survive -maybe until the year 2000. I daydreamed about how they would have to change her headstone which had a 19 inscribed next to my grandfather's inscription which read 1953. However, in the early afternoon on Aug. 4, 1979, as my mother and I were hanging new wallpaper in our kitchen, the call came· that my grand­mother "had gone to join the angels." Despite all of my prior preparation, I was not prepared. Grandma, forgive me for passing your cemetery all those times and not stopping to pay my 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 

respects. 
Last Tuesday, I watched the final episode of MTV's Real World in Hawaii. ln their "Real World," the participants in the house were able to say their goodbyes for as long as they wanted. They culminated the last few days together with events both public and private. And while their parting may have been painful, they were able to bring closure to their relationships. They were making the most of their last time together. 
Last night I watched "Saving Private Ryan." The scenes when a soldier died and his buddy pulled "the letter" to be sent home seemed to give some closure to the dead soldier. However, the scene when the· medic is dying in the hands of his comrade haunted me. Just prior to his death, the medic keeps calling, "Mommy, Mommy, Mommy." I wonder if he too had let his last time with his mother slip by. 
For me, it has been an interesting few weeks. I have been with the president on two occasions and Vice President Gore last Monday. I am peeping first­hand through a hole in tho cloth of his­tory -a perspective few are privileged enough to witness. Yet I would trade it for my life 20 years ago when Father Griff offered advice, Grandma Ciccone baked bread and canned peppers and Kevin Walsh sent me an outrageously irrnverent Christmas card. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame '73. is currently serl'ing in President Clinton's administration as a Congressional and public affairs director. He worked at the U.S. House ofRepresentatives for 17 years. His column appears euery other Friday, and his Internet address is Hottline@aol.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Obser,,er. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"This passion, and the death of a dear friend, would go near to make a man look sad." 
William Shakespeare "A Midsummer Night's Dream" 
-•=­
O
THE 
Friday, November 12, I 999 BSERVER page 15 
QUO U AU • & Q, =-us
·---­

VIEWPOINT 
Unjust sentence tests legal system 
:'low that tho Middlo 1-:ast is back Ht llw top or llrn nnws, we can expm:t discussion of tlw case or .Jonathan Pollard, Lim Navy intlllligencn rPS(\ardrnr who plcadrnl guilty of giv­ing secrets to lsrnfll and was son­Ltinccd in 1987 Lo lifo in prison. Tlw standard vi(1W is that l'ollard is n "traitor" who did grnnl damage to the sm:uritv or tlw l!nit;id ·Stales; that he got off lightly and should havn benn shot; and that tlw proceedings against him were fair. Tim rPality is different. While I wrotn part or Pollard's brief in tlw Court of Appeals. I dn not want to rehash the ciise. But Id mo noh! some strang1! aspects you may not hear about in llrn nwdia. 
Pollard and his crinm arn rnp­n•hm1sible. But never beforn has an /\mericrn1 cilizen received a lifP sentcnct! !'or spying for an allied nation; the usual scnt,•nccs range rrom two to oight y11ars. In I1J'J2. the Court ol' Appeals. by a 2-1 vntP, 11plwld the chmial of Pollard's move to withdraw his guilty plna. "lllt cannot b(1 said," conclud,HI the court, "that justice comp!f!Lely miscarried." Judge Williams, in dissent. called tlm sPntendng "a fundamental mis­carriage orjusLicc." Wei can men­tion herc only onn point. 
In tho plna agrcemnnt, the gov1mmwnt made three promises to Pollard, including an implicit mm not to sePk a life scnt1~ncc. "Tlw gov11rnment," Judge Williams said. "compliPd in spirit with llOIW or its promises; with th,i third, it complied in neither IPll(!f nor spirit." In the agree­nwnt. tho only refornncc to state­mnnts tlw govi\rmrnmt might make to the snntencing judge in camera, i.n.. off the record, was that "reprPsentations concerning I l'ollard's] cooperation [with the governm1!11t aftt1r his arnistl may havt1 to bn macln to tlm Court in camera." lnstnad, tho Covnrnnrnnl submiltPd in camera a 46-pagn classilied memo by l>tifons1i Secn!tary Caspar Wninlwrger which focusnd nut on Pollard's "cooperation" but on the claim that Pollard did great damage to I.he United Statns. Wninlwrgnr, who was indir.t11d !'or perjury on lran-C:onlra un<l pardonml hy President Bush. claimnd in Scptcmbnr 19')<) that Uw sonlnnciugjuclge himself made a "formal oJlicial request" that Wcinbt•rger submit Lhal sncret. mnmo. 
Pollard's attorrwys wnrp not told that Llw judgo requnst,1<l that m111110. Tlwy rnceivnd only a cen­sored version of it although both or his allornoys Imel full security cl<'arancns. Dnfonsn attornnys have no absolute right to sec such sentencing materials. But Urn only ruf'nrencc in tlie phm agnwmmrt tu in-camorn submis­sion was to information favorable to Pollard with rcspr.ct to his cooperation. 
Would Pollard have signed the 

ploa agreement if the govern­ment had said that it would prA­sent to the court in camera. not inf'ormatinn on Pollard's "cooper­ation," but allngations about tho damago Pollard did to national security, allegation::; which Pollard would havo no real chance to rebut bocause ho would not be allowed to see them in foll'? Pollard is an unworthy chai-acter who betrayed his coun­try's trust. But if they can blind­side a Pollard. they can do it to any or us.. 
Weinberger also subrnitted an unclassified statcmont which said it was difficult to "conceive of greater harm to national securi­ty" than that done by Pollard and that his punishment "should rnl1ect the magnitude of the trea­son committed, and_tbe needs of national security... 
Whiln Weinberger's statement, said Judge Williams, "did not expressly endorse a life sentence lit] irppliod an appeal for the maximum. Weinberger's refcr­oncn to treasnn took the point l'urther. Whereas treason carries the death penalty and involves aiding the nation's enemies, Pollard was charged with espi­onage, carrying a maximum of lil"e imprisonment and encom­passing aid even to friendly nations." 
The emphasis in the case through the signing of the plea agrnement corresponded to the indictment"s explicit charge only that the information Pollard con­veyed "would be used to the advantage of Israel." Once tho agreement was signed, the gov­ernment shifted its emphasis from Israeli benefit to damage to tho United States. It was a bait and switch. It was not illegal. Bul it is cause for concern because government officials have waged a media campaign to keep Pollard in prison on that basis, that his spying did great damage to the United States, an offense for which he was not explicitly indicted and against which he now has no real chance lo defend himself. 
/1. Washington Post editorial last January asked, "Cannot a way be found to pierce some of the secrecy and provide the pub­lic with a better means ofjudging whether fairness was achieved in this case'? (Pollard] is in the posi­tion of having his fate determined· in part by materials to which he had no access and proceedings of which he was not a part." 
The test of a legal system is not how it treats the bnst among us, but how it deals with the worst. Pollard's punishment is beyond tlrn usual. I le is kept in prison through leaked and unrcbuttable. 1m1clia assertions that go bHyond tlm charge on which he was explicitly indicted. This is a case of permanent imprisonment for undisclnserl reasons of state security. The 20th contury has snen loo many examples of thal practice. It should not be import­ed into the law of the United States. 
Professor Rice is on the law sclwul faculty. llis column appears ever!J other Friday. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and ,wt necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Ahmad misinterprets Pakistan presentation 
Under the heading, "Taliban's abuse of women's rights is not peace" columnist Nakasha Ahmad (The Observer, Nov. 11, 1999) gave u wrong picture of what I had said in my presentation nn Oct. 28 at the llosburg Center concerning the coup in Pakistan. 
/1.hmad attributed that I am supporting tho policies of Taliban in AJghanistan vis-a­vis the women population of that country. To put the record straight, while expressing my views about the Taliban rule in Afghanistan I had said that, "we tend to overreact to the situation in Afghanistan while undermining the fact that since 1995 till the present, more than 90 percent of i\fghanistan which is under the control of Taliban is peaceful." 
I was trying to prove the fact that. unlike the days when the Soviet troops had occu­pied Afghanistan and in the post-Soviet withdrawal period when infighting among warring Afghan factions had played hevoc by killing millions of Afghans, one can see peace and stability in that country. 
Whether the peace is the "peace of the graveyard" or is "genuine" was not dis­cussed by me. To be precise. I was simply narrating the fact that Afghanistan of' today is more peaceful than it was coupln of yoars ago: 
Similarly, I did not discuss the issue or t.he violation of human rights or the rights of women by the ruling Taliban. Morrover, in my presentation I had made it clear that I don't support the policies of Taliban. partic­ularly those implemented by them against religious minorities and women. 
I am surprised that Nakasha Ahmad mis­interpreted my contention and wrote in hor column that, "Dr. Ahmar exhibits a rash disregard for the rights of women that I find, quite frankly dangerous." It is st.range that she didn't ask me a qunstion or make a comment before she wrote her column. If we follow the norms of intellnctual honnsty, then she should have at least sought clarili­cations from me instead of writing a col­umn which is totally untrue and devoid of basic honesty. 
Moonis Ahmar, Ph.D. 
Visiting Scholar Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies November 11, 1999 
Follow your heart, reclaim your purity 
In Father Jim Lies' Campus Ministry col­umn on Nov. 11, he wrote about chastity and applaudecl those students who have chosen virginity and proclaim it. I am proud to be one of those students, but I would like to remind Father Lies that virginity is not the only valuable possession young people can lose through immature dating relationships. Purity is just as difficult, if not more diffi­cult, to commit to than virginity is. You can call it "getting action," "booty" or "play." You can say what base you got to. You can use all sorts of crude terms. But we all know what we're talking about­that shady area which occupies virginity but not purity. I'm willing to bet the majority of us have partic­ipated in it. And I'm willing to bet I'm not the only one who regrets' it. "We will not say more with our bodies than we mean with our hearts." lt sounds like a good enough proscription. Perhaps it could be a bit better with the reminder tacked nn that we don't always know what we mean with our hearts. I was once in a relationship whieh, at the time, felt wonder­ful. He was my first boyfriend and he seemed to adore me and everything was sugary-sweet. Was it love'? Not even close. It was two immature teenagers who just wanted a relationship for the sake of a rela­tionship. So we went out for five months and 
did things that we thought a "relationship" entailed -things which I could not, even with my most convoluted logic, describe as puro or even good. Frankly, I am disgusted and ashamed when I look back on it. When I think about the things I did with, and to, my body ... when I think of how shallow and 
insincere that relationship was ... I 
still have not forgiven myself. flas ho? I don't know. I haven't seen him for almost a year and a half. I don't think I 
could look him in the eye. I know this story sounds 
familiar to too many ofmy fellow stu­
d(\nts. /1.nd 
thn most painful thing about it is that this sit­
uation has gone 1111ad­drnssed so many times. Virginity is. 
in a way, mainstream. We !war about it rela­tively often and am encour­aged to pursun it and rnclaim it. But what about purity? I urge my fel­low students to pursun and rndaim that too. I A·~fDS won't draw a lino and say a particular amount of physical 
activity in a relationship is OK, and this amount is wrong. I think we all know in our hearts. If you ever ftiel like you might be going too far, stop. Stop right there. You may regrnt it far morn than you'd think. 
Sheila Payne 
Freshnun, Cavana11gh Hall November 11, 1999 
... 
-4 -• 
C 
s 
O
THE page 16 BSERVER Friday, November 12, 1999 

Everyone uses restrooms. But not_ everybody has the pleasure of using nice restrooms. Yes, not all bathrooms are nice. 
The male perspective: Best and worst ofrestrooms at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
There is one sure-fire way to revive a lag­ging conversation on this campus, at least among men. 
"Football?" you might say. 
Maybe, I shrug. 
"Religion then. Or 
Andrew 
perhaps politics?" 
McDonnell
Yawn, I wickedly retort, and double yav\'Il. 
Scene Writer 
"Hmmm," you say. "Hmmm, what ever could it be?" 
Ah, that is the question, say I, and the answer is simple. Restrooms. 
From the youngest of freshmen, to the most ancient member of the administration, there is a common thread that weaves between us all, and it all lands squarely in the toilet. 
I know, I realize, that many are reading this and thinking, "Oh that is just gross. This is just beyond worth reading. ½'hat is Cappy Gagnon going to think about this?" 
And maybe you're right. Maybe you're right. But maybe you're wrong. 
You see, the restroom is something so much larger than it initially seems. The restroom holds the mirror up to the world and says, "This is who you are! This what you value!" and sometimes, "This is who you value!" One can watch America's history change by watching America's restroom. Whether it was the site of racial segregation, of teenagers tasting their first taste of smokey rebellion or sometimes, these days, of a unisex experiment, the restroom has been a been a reflective surface in which we can view ourselves. And that, my friends, is what makes this article worthwhile. 
The Best at Notre Dame 
Main Building: Need it even be pondered, considered for a second even, that the best toilets on this campus would not be found underneath the Golden Dome? 
No, not really. 
Upon entering through daunting wooden doors to this utopian water closet, one is sur­rounded by the sensation of ... of cleanliness, of refreshment, of renewal, of this sudden and all-encompassing yes-ness. This bath­room has somehow captured the essence of a York Peppermint Patty. 
It is the only public bathroom on campus, perhaps in the world, that actually made me feel cleaner for having seen it. Bright white lighting and tiles, delightful wood paneling on the stall doors, a small gold ornament between each pair of hot and cold knobs on the sinks. A water fountain right inside the restroom itself1 To be frank. Heaven with toi­lets. 
Hurley Hall: I tell you what, if you're out walking about South Quad, and nature calls you to powder your nose, the vastly emptied Hurley Hall is not a had choice to take advantage of. Windows that open up to a courtyard; one can hear the birds chirping away. Marble stalls. Plenty of privacy. It is old-fashioned in many ways, yes, but I tell you what: Classy comes together with Privacy to make aavacy, and though I don't know what that means precisely, it is proba­bly really good. 
The Best at Saint Mary's 
You are over at Saint Mary's, you're a man, and you need to go real bad. 
Pardner, you are largely out of luck, but if you do have to choose, may I suggest that you head on over to the first floor of the Moreau Center for the Performing Arts. Plenty of spacious stalls and numerous sinks; and an adjoining room designed for changing clothes and applying stage makeup, should the need arise. Not a great restroom, but believe me, you can do horrendously worse. 
The Worst at Saint Mary's 
Holy Cross Hall Lobby: As long as Saint Mary's is in the focus, attention should be turned to one of the worst bathrooms in North America. It is actually less a bathroom than it is .a toilet sauna box. When one opens the door to this toilet sauna box, located in the lobby of Holy Cross Hall, the hot breath of Hell rushes out and smacks you in the eyes. 
You expect to see large men in towels seat­ed inside, but realize they must have melted. A pipe inside the tiny box is apparently the source of hot water to the entire campus, and much of northern Indiana. A vastly unpleasant experience, this bathroom. It's worth the walk to Moreau. 
The Worst at Notre Dame 
The Hesburgh Library Basement: This is touchy, risque, but it cannot be avoided. During your freshman year at Notre Dame, at one time or another, at least one person will tell you to never, ever use the restrooms in the basement of the library. These people are not mistaken. It has a· reputation that now plays a more distinct and unclouded role in Notre Dame lore than Father Sorin or the Four Horsemen ever will. I had never been in these restrooms myself until it crune time to write this article, and I did so hesi­tantly. ' 
And people, the bathroom is a sacred place. I don't have to tell you that. Leave sex in the bedrooms, the restaurants and the baseball stadiums. Men and women, hetero­and homo-, it makes no difference. We're all brothers and sisters, and we all know this: that the bathroom is for evacuating our bow­els and emptying our bladders. ½'hen I'm getting ready to do my business, l ,~o. µ.ot want to look over at the toilet paper h,qlder and read that some stranger is, "Hot to lick low-hangers." No. No I don't. Be ye man or woman, I care not for your desire to lick low­hangers. The disturbing scrawl in the base­ment is enough by itself to make it one of the worst. 
O'Shaughnessy Hall: The O'Shag bath­rooms (not a clever reference hack to the library) are quite horrid. The urinals them­selves have two strikes against them right off the bat. 
First of all, they are shaped like the lower half of Sammy the Pelican's mouth. You can't do that into a pelican! Especially now that I've pointed it out. Secondly, there are no dividers between the urinals, and as they are the jutting, low-placed pelican mouth variety of urinal, there is little chance of hiding any­thing, if my drift is captured. And believe me, I am not raising the complaint out of my own insecurity. It's the self-esteem of the rest of the guys on campus I'm worried about. 
And, to top it off, the rest of the bathroom is prison-like, particularly in the windowless first-floor location, where everything is crud­nasty, and a fella has to pretty much curl up in the toilet bowl to get the stall door open far enough to leave the foul thing. 
Honorable Mentions 
The Eck Visitor's Center: Always one of the best-deaned facilities on campus. 
LaFortune: The hypochondriac special ­so full of sensors that if you manage to open the door with your foot on your way out, you haven't had to touch a single thing that wasn't yours in the first place. 
Decio Hall: Neat, tunnel-like enclosure leading to urinals. 
Dishonorable Mentions The Hesburgh Library Tower: 
Incessantly reek of candied urine, toilets flush like rocket launch, and not exactly spa­cious. 
The South Dining Hall Basement: Lord, the unnatural stench of the place. 
Saint Mary's Dining Hall Basement: Gack! 
Basement, Holy Cross Hall: Bathroom designed, according to outside source, in such a manner that every noi.se created in bathroom is not only audible, but amplified in hallwav outside ofrestroom. 
Alumni/Senior Bar: Reasons too abundant and obvious. 

I
TLe 
I 

01 
C s 
Friday, November 12, 1999 page 17

oyal d 
royal 



Did you ever notice those checklists on the back of restroom doors? Filled with some manager's dutiful check marks at half-hour intervals, you'd swear it was some efficiency boast for that restaurant, shoppintnnall, whatever. 
Toilet paper. Check. 
Paper towel. Yep. Shannon Doyne 
Clean floor. You 
know it. 
Those check marks, 
Scene Writer 
those initials ... they 
make the bathroom 
what it is. 
Notre Dame doesn't play those reindeer games. The women's bathrooms are always clean. In the same way moving to the coun­try lulls you out of lock-the-car-door mode, Notre Dame breaks you of checking for toi­let paper before you choose your stall. It's there. Really. 
Not only are there paper towel dis­pensers, there's usually a roll hanging out by the sink for the lazy and/or near-sighted. And right next to it is a hand dryer, so you can customize which resource you want to squander. Best of all, we don't need to rely on the check marks of strangers to boost our confidence; it also frees this reviewer to focus on what really matters ... 
Most Slapstick Restroom 
Forgiveness and cat-like reflexes help a lot when you frequent the second floor women's restroom in O'Shaughnessy Hall. Things can get dicey in the three-foot vestibule and often, in that brief moment when I take that one step after the first door closes behind me and I prepare to face the post-bathroom world, I think of that great old Soul lyric: "Nowhere to run to, baby. Nowhere to hide." 
Why'? 
Because when the other door swings in, r am living it. Those initiated know: You can't pin your back against eithnr wall ­you'll get hit in the face. lf you jump back against the door you just exited, it too will swing inward and you will probably land square on your tail-bone and skid across the really clean tile floor. 
This isn't to say I don't like it. Sure I've taken a doorknob in the gut, but I've also been the giver of that gift. It's not that bad and in a slightly more alert world, I'm sure it would never happen. I've never even skidded across the floor, but I have heard myself squeal like a geek in surprise. In some ways, this bathroom is a tribute to Harry Houdini, old Jerry Lewis movies and "Three's Company's" physical comedy vir­tuoso, Jack Tripper. 
Wash those hands. Especially If handling food. Sinks are a common Inclusion In restroom technology. 
The female perspective: Amen·can p_op culture and 
the womens lavatory 
Most Arrested Development-Inducing 
Restroom 
Speaking of geeks, I remember also wastoids, dweebies and weirdos, and sud­denly I am back in eighth grade and it's 1987. The girls' lav was the place to hog the mirror, crimp your hair, apply more Electric Youth perfume and start a fist­fight, all in the three minutes between Civics and Wood Shop. There is no Notre Dame equivalent, but a more refined '90s version may just be any of the women's restrooms along the main hall in DeBartolo, before classes begin and especially, early in the semester. 
Despite the fact that these bathrooms are quite roomy, there have been Limes when I had to rely on the agility I developed in the Slapstick Bathroom just to navigate my way to a stall. Hands are washing, ponytails adjusting and someone with a bulging book bag strapped to her back is invariably. wait­ing for her friend, right in the middle of it all. I'm awkward and I catch myself, look­ing in the big, shiny mirror, head down, slouching, frowning and I'm trapped in "My So-Called Life: The College Years." 
1950s Glamour Fantasy Restrooms 
And you thought college was coffee and khakis. If you've ever yearned to travel through time to wherever sophisticated ladies gave their tiresome dates the slip by saying, 'Tm going to powder my nose," you are not alone. 
Ah, the thought of retiring to the "lounge" equipped with all the things we modern women associate with bathrooms, plus a snazzy extra room with tiny couches and lighted vanity mirrors! You could just sit and gossip with your new bathroom friends, re-apply your lipstick, even smoke a cigarette (how unladylike!). Okay, these days, few of us smoke and certainly not in campus buildings, and when we do run into our friends in the bathrooms, we generally grunt something about being busy, then move on. But i.hese museum-like spaces do exist, even if it would take stringing yet another iMac so we can check our e-mail through them to get us to sit down. 
The women's rnstroom in the basement of the library has a lounge area, as docs the one~staller just inside the main entry of O'Shaughnessy. My favorite, though, is the one that actually has "Women's Lounge" written right on the door' It's near the English Office on third floor of O'Shag. It's mostly for women who work in the offices nearby, so the door i.s usually locked. 
You just have to believe me on this one. 
In addition to two toilet-and-sink combo-
stalls, there's a wooden table with chairs around it and two Nagahyde-covered "chaise lounges," if you will, that sort or remind me of where I woke up after I had my wisdom teeth yanked. Bring your Hot Pot and you can live there. 
Action Restroom 
Not all restrooms can be about serenity and making new friends, though. Some require athletic prowess, like the women's restroom in the Hammes Bookstore. It real­ly is a nice bathroom: tasteful but not intimidating, clean and often ambitiously fresh-scented, like that store at the mall that wants you to think you are at a farmer's market, even though you are buy­ing bath gel. The faucets are automatic. Comforting, isn't it, knowing you don't have to touch any germ-ridden handles to get that water? 
Things get a little trickir.r: the toilets arc also self-f1ushing, a concept that sounds even more thoughtful than the no-touch faucets. It is, until the water really starts whirling. Ilonestly, my first experience with this bathroom had me admiring the vigor of that flush. I thought: whirlpool. I thought: fountain. A second later, a thin jet of(clean, but still) water casually shot out of the toi­let, a few drops hitting me on the shoulder. 
Moral of the story'? Scramble away. It's no fluke, either; it happens all the time. By now, I guess you could say I respond auto­matically. 
Celebrity Wanna-Be Bathroom 
If you love celebrity magazines like I lov1i celebrity magazines, you also love features on dreamy stars and their digs. I've been "at home" with so many actors and musi­cians, I drool like Pavlov's dogs every time J see brushed-stainless steel usod in decorat­ing kitchens and bathrooms. So sleek and cool, but somehow so not like the industrial kitchens where l've slung many a burrito in my time, the dull gleam of expensive appli­ances and counter-tops paints my heart gunmetal gray. 
I guess that's why I pick Heckers' women'.s restroom as my very favorite. I also love the faux-rough tile walls and the fact that this space is very dim for a bath­room. It's the un-bathroom and the one I admire most. Ironically enough, on the back of the door there is a check-list that I all but declared superfluous earlier in this review. Maybe it exists in some parallel Notre Dame universe where bathrooms contain no '80s flashbacks, no chaise lounges and no Jerry Lewis. 
On second thought, that's crazy. 
U !WWWIS Ubl CZ44U
44 .. ­
* ••• 
... page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November 12, 1999 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Stanford upsets Duke 
with 10-0 overtime run 
Associated Prc.ss 
NEW YORK 
Michael McDonald's two 3­pointers keyed Stanford's 10­0 run in overtime and the 13th-ranked Cardinal held on for an 80~79 victory over No. 10 Duke on Thursday night in the opening game of the Coaches vs. Cancer <:lassie at Madison Square Garden. 
Stanford will play the win­ner of the second game between No. 1 Connecticut and Iowa in Friday night's championship game. 
The Cardinal outscored Duke 8-2 over the final 3() seconds of regulation to force overtime. 
Chris Carrawell made two free throws :B seconds into the extra session to give Duke its final lead and McDonald. who scored eight points, started the run with the two 3s. David Moseley's layup and Jasun Collins' dunk gave Stanford a 78-70 lead with 
2:03 left. 
Carrawell then scored seven points in Duke's 9-2 run to close the game but it wasn't enough. 
Carrawell's tip-in made it 
CLASSIFIEDS 
80-79 with eight seconds left. Stanford freshman Casey Jacobsen missed two free throws with 4.6 seconds left and Moseley grabbed the rebound of the serond but was called for traveling. 
Duke had another chance, but Nate James' 2 5-footer bounced off the rim at the buzzer. 
Moseley led Stanford with 20 points and Mark Madsen, the only returning starter from last season, had 15, 
Carrawell, one of two starters back from Duke's team that reached the NCAA championship game last sea­son. finished with a career­high 28 points, while Battier, the other, had 19 and fresh­man Jason Williams added 13. 
Carrawell's previous best was 19 points against North Carolina as a sophomore. 
Ryan Mendez and Moseley each hit 3-pointers in Stanford's run lo close regu­lation. 
After Jarron Collins' layup tied it 68-68 for Stanford with 
3.8 seconds left, Duke missed a chance to win in regulation when Battier's last-second jumper bounced off the rim. 
LPGA 
Pak putts way to one-stroke lead 
Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS 
No longer under a spotlight so glaring it made her sick, Se Ri Pak quietly went about her business Thursday and wound up with a 6-under 66 for a one-stroke lead after the first round of the LPGA Tour Championship. 
On a still, sunny day just off the Las Vegas Strip, Pak birdied five of the first seven holes on the back nine of the Desert Inn Golf Club, then capped her round with a solid save of par on the 18th hole. 
Janice Moodie of Scotland birdied three of the last four holes for a 67, while six-time winner Karrie Webb got off to a solid start in her bid to clinch player of the year and smash the LPGA Tour's sea­son scoring average. 
Webb struggled coming in but still managed a 68 and was tied with Kelly Robbins and Lorie Kane, Juli Inkster, paired with Webb, bogeyed the final hole and was at 70. 
The year has belonged almost exclusively to Webb and Inkster, who between them have won 11 tourna­ments and three of the four major championships. They also are the only two players to surpass $1 million in earn­ings. 
Pak remembers what it was like to have everyone watch­ing her every move. Just last year. she took the tour by storm as a 20-year-old hy winning back-to-back majors and four times during a sea­son that left her physically and emotionally spent. 
She has won three times this year, but has been some­what lost amid the success of Webb and Inkster. 
"Did they forget. about me? Maybe," Pak said. flashing a smile that showed how much control she has of her life. "This year, Julie and Karrie, it is their season. They play so good and play so strong. I don't mind trying to follow them. Having fun out there, aJI season. Feel more relaxed. Just enjoy it more." 
When she's not overpower­ing a golf course, Pak has been making the transition to freedom from parents who "keep looking at me like little baby" and a Korean press that used to chronicle her every step. 
She is cooking and doing her own laundry, making her own schedule and staying out as late as she wants. She no longer has an entourage around her to tell her what to do and when to do it. 
Pak took control of her life by dumping swing coach David Leadbetter and firing her Korean manager, turning over her affairs to IMG. 
"Everything is perfect. Better than last yr,ar," she said. 
And, as she showed Thursday, she can still play. 
None of' her six birdie: putts was longer than eight feet. and had nothing morn than a 9-irpn for her approach shots on the back nine. 
"Just every hole, I do my best," she said. "Sometimes it. works. sometimes it not work. But today, 1just feel so good." 
Webb has felt good all year. Along with winning six times and getting her first major championship in the du Maurier, she has only finished outside the top 10 in three out of 24 tournaments this year. 
The result is a 69.45 scoring aVfirage, a mark so astound­ing that Webb could afford four rounds at 81 and still beat the record of 69.99 that Annika Sornnstam sr,t last year. 
-"Now I can shoot an 85 one day," she said. ''I'm not really thinking about that. Obviously, I want to play well this week, to have as low a scoring average as I possibly can and set the record ... and see how long it takes for someone to break it." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center PHONE 631-COPY 
www.CopyShopND.com Store Hours Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm Sat: Noon-6:00pm Sun: Noon-Midnight 
WANT TO LEARN ABOUT THE LAW? ND Law School needs volunteers to be jurors in mock trials on Dec. 4 & 5. Staff, faculty and students are welcome. Please call Gloria Krull at 631-6860 to sign up. 
LOST & FOUND 
$$$$ Money found ... On South Quad ... Early morning, Sunday, October 17 ... (Sunday before break) .... the sum was somewhat considerable ..i1 it was yours, call 634-0970 with information. 
LOST: CRUCIFIX WITH BROWN BEADS BEFORE BREAK. KEEP­SAKE. 
PLEASE CALL CAROL AT 631­7484. 
WANTED 
FREE TRIPS AND CASH!!! 
SPRING BREAK 2000 StudentCity .com is looking tor Highly Motivated Students to pro­mote Spring Break 2000! Organize a small group and travel FREE!!Top campus reps can earn a Free Trip & over $10,000!Choose Cancun .. Jamaica or Nassau! Book Trips On-Line Log In and win FREE stuff. Sign Up Now 0~ Line' www.StudentCity.com or 800/293·1443 
Loving ND-SMC couple wishes to adopt.Will provide a lifetime of laughter.love.devotion and opportu­nities. 800-484-4699 code 0019 To our 4am inquirer: all info kept in total confidence.Please call back anytime.Our prayers are with you. 
Free One Bedroom Apartment near Campus A lamily with three children seeks fun.energetic student or graduate to live in charming apartment for FREE in exchange for mutually agreeable babysitting responsibili­ties.Fax name.phone# and brief note describing experience and interests to Walker at 233-2308. 
gmbid.com is a pre IPO start-up luxury auction web site, pioneered by Georges Marciano, the founder of Guess? Jeans. We are looking for a part time campus representa• live to join us in arranging local pro­motions, PR, giveaways, e-mail campaigns, sponsorships, etc. Must be interested in marketing, a self­starter, fun, and a team player. Please email resumes to: reps@gmbid.com 
Kitchen Help Now accepting applications for part­time kitchen help.Responsibilities include serving meals on a tray line and clean up. Hours: 4:30pm to 8:30pm. Meals provided Call Brenda for appointment 287­6501 Cardinal Nursing & Rehabilitation Center 1121 E. LaSalle South Bend. IN 46617EOE 
WANTED: TWO PART TIME EMPLOYEES TO WORK IN A RETAIL ENVIRON­MENT DOING CUSTOM FRAM­ING. FLEXIBLE HOURS, GREAT PAY AND STORE DISCOUNTS. IDEAL APPLICANTS WILL HAVE CREATIVITY ARTISTIC EXPRES­SION AND SKILL TO CRAFT. APPLY IN PERSON AT FRAME FACTORY, SCOTTSOAL.E MALL OR E-MAIL RESUME TO GMDALE@AOLCOM 
Free CD of cool indie music when 
you registElf at mybytes.com, the 
ultimate website for your college 
needs. 
FOR RENT 
ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE 
HOME FOR 
ND-SMC EVENTS. 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 
243-0658. 
3 BDRM DUPLEX REMODELED 501 EDDY ST. 1 Ml. FROM CAMPUS. APPLIANCES, W/0 273-8332 
Reserve for the 2000 Football Season & Special Occasions, Bedroom Suite w/Bath. Private Entry, 760 SF New Construction above Garage. Just 30 min. from ND, 1 mi. off US 31S, in county. 
219-291-3771. 
email: moby77@tir.com 
WALK TO SCHOOL http://mmmrentals.homepage.com 232·2595 or mmm.rentals@aol.com 
4-6 student rental houses. Lots of extras. Huge Party Room. Washer/Dryer, etc. Dave 291-2209. 
FOR SALE 
Spring Break Specials!Bahamas 
Party Cruise 5 Days $279! Includes Meals' Awesome Beaches,Nightlife!Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights From $399! FLorida$129 !springbreaktravel .com 1-800-678-6386 
FOR SALE N.D. FOOTBALL TIX CALL 271-9412 
FOR SAL.E N.D. FOOTBALL TIX 
CALL271-9412 
Phone Cards 669min. $20 243-9361 or 258-4805 
Beautiful brass bed, queen size. with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame. New, never used, still in plastic. $235 219-862-2082 
SPRING BREAK 2000 PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA FROM $149 PER PERSON SAND­PIPER BEACON BEACH RESORT THE "FUN PLACE"' TIKI BEACH BAR ENTERTAINMENT BY BOO· GIE INCORPORATED BIKINI CONTESTS MALE HARD BODY CONTESTS 3 POOLS LAZY RIVER RIDE WATER SLIDE HUGER BEACHFRONT HOT TUB MINI GOLF GIFT SHOP SUITES UP TO 10 PEOPLE1-800-488-8828 WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM 
'90 TOYOTA TERCEL, 84K MILES, 4-SPEED, GOOD CONDITION, $1900. 299-1608. 
TICKETS 
WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT­BALL TICKETS 271-1526 
NEED BC 2 TICKETS!!! CALL CHUK 4-4785 
SELL & BUY GA FOOTBALL TICK­ETS 277-6619 
FOR SALE BC & Stanford tix. Best Prices AM -232-2378 PM -288-2726 
ND Football tix BOUGHT & SOLD AM -232-2378 PM -288-2726 
FOR SALE 
N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS CALL271-9412 
ELTON JOHN TICKETS 272-7233 GOOD SEATS ...... 
I need two BC tickets Call Chuk 634-4785 
ELTON JOHN TICKETS 1st 10 rows 271-9330 
4 B.C. tix together 607-336-721 8 
WANTED ND/BC GA Tix Jim 234-7228 
4 Pitt Tix for sale face value dan 234-8646 
B-BALL SEASON TIX $30 CALL 4-4222 
FOR SALE: 2 BC GA'S with parking pass!' call x4523 
Need 2 BC tix. Call 634-2755 BUYING AND SELLING NOTRE DAME VS. BOSTON COLLEGE TICKETS. CALL 289-8048. 
4 BC Tickets Needed! Must be close to field. Willing to pay big $. Call Brad @ 232-3464 
Need as many BC tickets for as close to face as possible for friends and family. Help me out. Call Brian at 634-3346 
1need three BC tickets. Call Molly at 284-5048. 
12 BC GA's. Must sell. Call Dennis 1-914-654-9200. 
PERSONAL 
High-Speed Copies, Color Copies, Binding, Fax Service, Resumes, 
Business Cards, Lamir,iating, & a whole lot more at THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY Free Pick-Up & Delivery! 
Quality Copies, Quickly! 
We're open early, late, & weekends. THE COPY SHOP Lafortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
Quality Copies. Quickly! 
Spring Break 2000 Free Trips & Meals. Jamaica,Cancun,Bahamas,Barbad os,Florida,Padre.Book now for Free Meats & 2 Free Trips.Book before Dec. 17 for LOWER PRICES!! 1800-426-7710 www.sunsplashtours.com 
Live rock and roll with 
ART 
& 
THE ARTICHOKES 
at Heartland 10 pm Friday $1 w/ ID 
To my homies:Yo Yo Yo to Mary z 
and Carolyn B SMC SENIOR DAD'S WEEKEND 
COLLEGE TUITION -$22,000 FOOTBALL TICKETS· $150 HEART-TO-HEART CONVERSA­
TION WITH DAD OVER COFFEE ­PRICELESS Bring your Dad to MOLLY MC GUIRE'S for a cup of coffee 
Buy one/Get one free Good only for weekend of 11/12-11/13/99. Corner of Eddy & S.B. Ave. 
www.thecommentator.com 
All drink and no sleep makes Laura a silly girl. Go Team 395! Fluffy would be 
proud!! Upset City! Iowa 70, UConn 68 Go Hawkeyes! TALC -Thank you for everything 
you've done this week. You're the best. Bred and Butta reunion coming 
soon. If I get there that is. Do you smell something? NASCAR is SO interesting. And Golf in Moscow is thrilling. Brooke good iob tonight. Alicia I got lovin' for the ND girls 
too. I think someone needs a shower. M-D-E--S you guys are the great· 
est. 
Ok I'm getting there... it's close..almost... Done. Excellent Thank you and goodnight. 
w
WP C. WWW
s w ma 0 S U EE a • 
.. 
Friday, November l 2, 1999 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 

Give away your coat ... and Share the Warmth! 
Facts and Figures on Poverty and America's Working Poor The average after-tax income of the richest one percent of the population is projected to more than double between 1977 and 1999, rising 115% after adjusting for inflation. But the average after-tax income for households in the middle of the income scale is projected to·lncrease only 8% over this 22-year period, an average n:tal gain of less than one-half a percent per year, while the average of the poorest fifth of Americans is projected to fall, The top 20% of households, a group expected to secure an average after-tax income gain of 43% between 1977 and 1999, is expected to receive slightly more than half of all after-tax income this year. These households will have slightly more income than the other 80% of households combined.  

SHARE THE WARMTH AND SPIRIT OF NOTRE DAME! 
Four weeks still remain to participate in Project Warmth! Do not miss out! Help make our collection numbers soar with your donation. With your support, arecord number of persons in our South Bend/Mishawaka community and beyond will receive an invaluable gift this winter: awarm coat! 
EVERYONE can participate! 
Please welcome our new collection sites, Decio Commons and the J.A.C.C. (2nd Floornext to ticket offioo)
if1: ,.,,,,,' .,,~\,, . ~' 
'r. '.I~ . .'.\)~ • ':;. 
,., 
Do not forget, however, about our other dynamic
' :.~:.<...:-"': -, 1' ,;· '• 
site locations, all eager to accept your coat
:':.rt< 
donation until December 3: 
Center for Social Concerns * Hammes Bookstore * LaFortune Information Desk* RecSports *Alumni Community Service Office* Campus Ministry/ 
·,,.;;_µ.-, ' ,· ·> (,',,1£(,_,·,. \ '' •., (.'•;'.
•• ' ' J,•,'fii,'' ' 
·,• ', ·.:Y:!C! . ' ' '. '.11!~; Hesburgh Library *All Residence Halls * College of Business Administration * St. Michael's Laundry Distribution Center * Bond Hall * Fitzpatrick Engineering 
* Flanner Hall* Galvin Life Science Center* Grace Hall* Law School* Main 
Building * O'Shaughnessy * North/South Dining Hall * ND Federal Credit ....
Union (all branch locations), Student Government Office in Lafortune 
Sponsored by: 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
St. Michael's G E A R HAMMES BOOKSTORE STUDENT GOVERNMENT Laundry · • · · · ·' ·! 

.. 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November 12, 1999 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Looking For A Challenge that will prepare you for the future? 
' .
I 
' 
' _,,,, 
Mark A. 
We have raised a quarter of a billion dollars to become the first national eCRM .application package service provider. We will dominate our market. 
Do you want in? 
To hear our story, come to Room 210, at Center For Continuing Education on November 15th at 7:30 p.m. 
Interviews will take place on Nove1nber 16th. 
'11 
At DC Systems, We Take The Future Seriously. www.dcsys.com 
Boggs calls it quits after 18 seasons 
Associated Press 
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. 
Rather than pack his bags and leave home again, Wade Boggs decided 3,010 career hits were enough. 
Ttrn Tampa Ray Devil Rays didn't offor the 41-yc-iar-old third basc~man an oppc•rtunity to play for them again next sea­son, so he accepted a chance to move into the front office with duties as an advance scout and evaluator of young talent. 
Saying he had been spoiled the last two seasons by being able to live year-round in the area where he grew up, Boggs consulted fellow 3,000-hit club members 11obin Yount and George Brett. as well as some current players and friends, !Jefore turning to his dad, Win, for some fatherly advice. 
"l asked him if l could catch Pete Rose," the career hits leader with 4,256. "He said: "Son, you're not going to be able to play that long.' " 
Boggs, the only player to hit a home run for his 3,000th hit, said the conversation on a fish­ing outing in North ,Florida essentially sealed his decision. 
He considered the possibility of playing a year or two with his fourth major league team, but concluded the future was brighter as an assistant to Devil Rays general manager Chuck LaMar, 
"This is all new, I know how to get a hit. I know how to catch a ground ball, I know how to throw a baseball. Those three areas. I've had to master since I was 18 months old." Boggs said at a news confer­ence at Tropicana Field. "At the age of 41, I'm starting something new, different and exciting," 
Boggs played 18 seasons in the majors with the Devil Rays. Boston Red Sox and New Ynrk Yankees. He b1wame thH 23rd playc>r to reach 3,000 hits on Aug. 7, homering off Cleveland's Chris Haney just a half-hour's ride from where he grew up playing Little League ball. 
A month after reaching the plateau, the 12-time all-star and two-time gold glove winner had season-ending surgery to repair torn cartilage in his right knee. · 
The Devil Rays faced a deadline Wednesday to exer­cise a $1 million option on 1.he contract he signed two years ago when he returned home to help Tampa Bay launch an expansion franchise. 
He entt>red discussions ,ivith the team last month, thinking he still had a future as a player. But Tampa Bay, wanting to exercise a $250,000 buyout, pushed for him to head in another direction, clearing the way for the team to upgrade at third base through a trade, free agency or younger players within the organization. 
"You see so many players who try to hold on and try to stay in the game," Boggs said, "For one reason or another, they were not as fortunate as I was to obtain a World Series ring or something along those lines to allow mo to walk away." 
Boggs was selected to 12 con­secutive All-Star games from 1985-96, the year he finally won a World Series champi­onship with the Yankees. He alsn was the only player this century with seven straight 200-hit seasons, set an AL rookie reenrd with a .349 aver­age in 1982 and hit .300 better in 15 of his 18 big-league sea­sons. 
Ho hit .301 with two homers and 29 HBls in 1999, joining Ty Cobb, Lou Brock and Roberto CJcmente -all Hall of Famers -as players who retired after hitting .300 in their final sea­son. 
"It wasn't an easy decision because an athlete can always look in the mirror and sav OK: [ can still play. Deep ·down inside, probably I thought I still could," Boggs said. "But why not go out out on top. l've always said: 'I'll never embar­rass myself in this game."' 
Asked to recall the biggest moment in his career, Boggs said there were two that he treasured equally. 
"Riding the horse at Yankee Stadium," he said, recalling the World Series celebration fol­lo'v\-ing his greatest accomplish­ment as a member nf a team, "And kneeling down and kiss­ing home plate after I hit the home run for the 3,000th hit" 
He joked that perhaps ·the happiest people about his deci­sion to retire were his wife and kids, 
Williams earns AL Manager of Year award 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
.limy Williams is a lot better at 
managing than he is at talking 
a.bcmi what hP does, 
"I just try to listen to our kids, 
nnt talk at them or to them," he 
said Thursday after winning the 
American League Manager of 
the Year award for leading the 
Boston Red Sox into the play­
offs, 
"It's a two-way conversation. I 
let my eyes evaluate what I 
see." 
Despite the loss of Mo 
Vaughn, Williams Jed Boston to 
the AL wild-card berth. For 
that, he received 20 of 28 first­
place votes and five seconds for 
115 points from the Baseball 
Writers' Association of America. 
"As far as l'm concerned, this 
is a team award," Williams said. 
"It's pretty special." 
Oakland's Art Howe was sec­
ond for keeping the Athlt>tics in 
contention until September 
despite a $25.2 million payroll, 
24th among the 30 major 
league teams. He got five firsts, 
19 seconds and three thirds for 
85 points. 
Joe Torre of the World Series champion Yankees, last year's winner, was third with 21 points, followed by Johnny Oates of the Texas Rangers with · 13 and Mike Hargrove, fired by the Cleveland Indians after los­ing to Boston in the playoffs, 
with 13. Hargrove will manage Baltimore next season. 
Boston had been expected to struggle after Vaughn left as a frne agent and signed with Urn Anaheim Angels. 
"Certainly Mo was an integral part of this ballclub in the past years, but wasn't with our team," Williams said. "He was with another team, and you have to move on. We weren't trying to replace Mo. Maybe some other players could step up and do a little more here and a little more there. Basically, that's what happened. A lot of different people stepped up." 
Boston, 22 games behind the New York Yankees when it won the AL wild-card in 1998, fin­ished only four games back this year, improving from 92-70 to 94-68. 
The Hed Sox prnssed New York in September, sweeping a three-game series at Yankee Stadium and closing within three games during the final two weeks. 
After the votes were cast, tlrn Hed Sox overcame a 2-0 deficit to beat the Cleveland Indians in the best-of-5 first-round series, then lost to the Yankees in the AL Championship Series. 
"The thing I felt good about was being down 0-2 and coming back and watching thesP · kids win," he said. 
Williams wouldn't look ahead to trying to catch the Yankc\es next season. 

-
Friday, November 12,. 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Trade deal returns Ashby to Phillies 
A.sociatcd l'ress 
Pltlt.i\DEl.l'IIIA 
Andy 1\shby sens rt!turning Lo l'hiladnlphia as an opportunity to takn ca1'1\ of sonw 11nlinished husint\SS !'rom carlinr in tlrn d1i<:adn. 
"Tlw 1hing I look at mosl is Ln come back ,uul try to redeem mysHII'," sairl i\shl1y, acquir1id by Urn Phillins latP Wmlncsday l'rom San DiHgo for pitchnrs Carlt.on Loewer, Steve Monlgonwry and Adam Eaton. 
i\shhy reLurns to tlrn PhiladPlpllia organization that signed him as a 11011-drafted 1're1\ ag1,nt in I986. I le spent tlw last six-plus seasons with San DiPgo and posted a carner­bt1st 17 wins against ninn loss­ns in 1998 during tl111 Padres' marr.h to tho World Serins. 
"WIH\11 I 1t~n hcrn in '93, I said I didn't have bad i<inlings toward l'hiladelphia."Ashby said. 
"I totally understand tho husirrnss part of it. II' you don't do your job, things are going to change. I didn't pitch well whm1 I was here." 
That's not completely true. 
On .lune I 5, JCJ<JJ, just five days after his major l!~ague dd>ut, Ashby became the first Phillit• ever to strike out tlrn sido on nine pitches in a start against Cincinnati. 1111 also bncamn just tho l l th pitcher in m,~jor league history to accom• plish the feat. 
Less than 24 hours before this trade, Ashhy didn't know ho would be coming back, 
"I thought it was going to be another month or .Julv before anything would · tako placn,"Ashby said. "Me and my wife were talking last night. Next tl1ing I know. iL'~ 11 :00, the phone rang and K.T. !San Diego General Managnr Kevin Townrsl said we have a deal done. 
"I said, '\Vhero is it?' lie said, 'Philly.' In a way it was hard, becausn I have all the respect in the world for San Diego. 
"It's been a pretty interesting couple of wt1cks. But I'm happy it's over with. l'm happy to be back in Philadelphia." 
Ash by stands to make a baso salary or $5.9 million in 2000 and can bN:ome a free agent at the end of next season. Jlowevu. he hasn't given much thought to his contract status. 
"Hight now, I'm just glad to be with a team," said Ashby. "I really haven't had the opportu­nity Lo become a free agent. The past two weeks I know what it feels like. though. The past couple of days, it's been prtitty crazy' ... Right now, I'm just trying to get my feet wet and get back and do what I have to do to get ready for spring training." 
Griffey wants to be closer to home 
Associated Press 
DANA POINT. Calif. 
Tho great Griffey chase goes on, at least to Anaheim and the winter mefltings. and maybe beyond. 
The general managers' meet­ings ended Thursday with Ken Griffey Jr, rnrnaining ihe prop­erty of the Seattle Mariners, who arc attempting to comply with the slugger's wish that he be traded closer to his Orlando, Fla., home. 
Three big trades were made this week, including Thursday's five-player deal sending 1996 AL Cy Young winner Pat ffontgen from Toronto to the St. Louis Cardinals. Olherwise, GMs laid the groundwork for future deals, many of which could come at the winter meetings Dec. 10-14 in Anaheim. 
Three facts about the Griffey talks that emerged here are that about 3-4 teams could be serious players in the sweep­stakes, getting Griffey will cost plenty and there's a concern about giving up a lot only to face the prospect of having Griffey leave as a free agent after the 2000 season. 
St. Louis Cardinals GM Walt 
Jocketty said he had dinner 
one night this week with Mark 
McGwire, and the subject of 
the two sluggers playing in tho 
same lineup came up. 
"We'd love to have him here, 
but he [McGwire] also realizes that we have to stay competi­tive," Jocketty said. 
Seattle GM Pat Gillick said he had three conversations regarding Griffey on Thursday, but none were as good as an apparently intriguing offer that the Mariners rejected on Wednesday. 
"We told them at the time that we reJected it,"Gillick said. "We kind of reflected on it overnight. It's interesting. 
"I think we can go back and restart it,"he said. 
Gillick wouldn't be more spe­cific. other than to say the team that made that offer had met. previously with the Mariners. 
The four teams believed to have the most serious interest are Griffey's hometown Cincinnati lleds. the New York Mets, the Cardinals and the Houston Astros, although the latter two are believed to be on the periphery. 
Cincinnati GM Jim Bowden said Wednesday that Seattle would want all the Heds' best players for Griffey, effectively making them non-competitive after coming within one victory of the playoffs. 
But Bowdirn clearly is intrigued with the prospect of landing Griffey. The Reds made • five offers to the Mariners here. all of which were· rejected. The Heds, who rebuffed three Seattle offers, did not speak with the Mariners on Thursday. 
So where do the Mariners go 
\l'lELCOME TO OUR 
..,,....________u_u_m__Abl_e_A_bo_d_e_ 
.. 1632 N.Ad.Tns Streel Soc.th Bend.IN 46628
Need a comfortable place to 5tay while visiting South Bend? 
Toll fr!!e 
• l Bcdroom/'l Billh Hom• R.,..oneble Nighlly/Weckly Rales 2.5 Milos from Noin Dame 
from here'? 
"I just think we havfi to be patient, let tho things kind of churn,"Gillick said. 
Gillick said the Mariners aren't disappointed they haven't moved Grim~y yet. 
"We're fine. I think you've .iust got to kind of stick with it. HopPl'ully something will rnatB­rializ.e ," he said. "II' it doosn't, we'll just keep the guy, For the 2000 season, hopefully that could be a good situation. It might not work out ln the end." 
Jocketty said the Cardinals waded in to the Griffey talks, "and we kind of' wadod out quickly. too. 
"I think it's going to be a Ht­tlo rich for us. Tho problem is the uncertainty whether Griffey would stay after nr.xt year. If you havn to give up top-level players -and it would be top-levr,l players ­that's pretty tough to do." 
.J ockeUy noted that a lot of people didn't know whether McGwire would stay with the Cardinals after thr,y traded for him during the 1997 soason. 
With Griffey, "it's a pretty big gamble. We're talking about much greater players than we gave up for McGwire." 
Toronto, meanwhile, made its second big deal in four days, sending Hentgen and left-handed reliever Paul Spoljaric to the Cardinals for left-hander Lance Painter, catcher Alberto Castillo and minor league pitcher Matt DeWitt 
1-877-b62·• 1 29 J;,y & S..rbara Brown 
"""'Y,'1'mttnent·tech.con11humblo.html 
"My name is Los. I like to drink." 
Happy 21st 
Birthday! 
Your Off 
Campus 
Friends! 

Just afractioo ofoor timewatching,µto\'ies
l'OUld help bring many happy eooings. 
lt~socasytohclpyour , 6'chowtofvolwuo:rtimc 
ccmmuniry, when you thin!; P"' week ""'standlrd of 
abol.i~. livin&inl\mcrica. 
Millionsofpooplehave~•I;I.,.. Gftinvolvedwithlht: helped make rivepcicent .l.'11':. C2WCS yw care about of thar incomc!Sand w,-. a.-t•~· and&ivc fivc. 
-VIOUAJ. OIVINO/YOlUlffll!IUHG """""°" 
NE.WlnP6!11 AD NO..OV•ll•141f-1 CCL 
On sale at the L.i.Fortune Student Center Box Office 
and at the Saint Mary's College Box Office 
Sponsored Ly the Nanovic lnstilule for European Sludies, University of Noire Dame 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November 12, 1999 
BOXING 
Holyfield-Lewis bout makes for hard sell 
Associated Press 
Go ahead, Lennox Lewis: 
Make boxing's day. 
Make Evander Holyfield say "uncle." Make Saturday night a fight to remember. Make everybody who wouldn't part with $49.95 regret the deci­sion. 
Because right now, that's a lot of us. 
Boxing is not an easy sell at the momeul, something the people behind Holyfield-Lewis II are finding out only t_oo well. The feds are crawling all over it. The scent of corruption is in the air. Even honest· fights don't smell much better. 
Peoplfl are being dragged in front of grand juries. Large men wearing sunglasses and bearing subpoenas turned up at Dou King's office doors not too long ago. 
Last week, prosecutors charged International Boxing· Federation president Dr. Bob Lee and other officials with taking bribes from promoters and managers to fix rankings almost from the day he hung an "IBF" shingle over his door. 
And now the politicians are getting into the act. After decades of promising to do something about boxing, this week they actually did, send­ing the Muhammad Ali Boxing Act to President Clinton's desk to be signed into law. It won't "get rid of the bandits and parasites in this sport," as Ring Magazine breathlessly reported, but it might do some good down the road. And at least it's a start. 
Problems inside the ring are at least as daunting. There aren't many fights out there with the "ka-ching" of a big pay-per-view event. The hope that a welterweight might take over evaporated just about the time Oscar De La Hova was polishing the dull edge~ on his uninspired loss to Felix Trinidad. 
Among the heavyweights, the news hasn't been good. The spectacle of Mike Tyson is wearing thin. A core audience would pay to see him brush his teeth, but most people draw the line for his fights at premium cable. The casino crowd doesn't turn out like it used to, either, and cleaning up after him is less and less worth the expense or the both­er. George Foreman is too old. David Tua and Michael Grant aren't there yet. 
Things are so bad that one of the wise guys on "Sports Center" closed a recent piece recapping all the bizarre inci­dents in boxing the last few years by practically begging "Fan Man" -the goof who tried to parachute into the middle of the Holyfield-Hiddick Bowe fight a few years ago ­to reprise his act. Which brings us back to Holyfield­Lewis II. 
It was the fight everybody wanted to see -the first time. It turned into a farce. 
Holyfield is that rare athlete who can be called a "warrior" without exaggeration, but he can be awkward and for a bat­tle to occur, his opponent has to bring it. Lewis didn't -he wouldn't shed his cautious skin -even if he did do more fighting than Holyfield when they met in March at Madison Square Garden. 
It was one of the least mem­orable fights ever, followed by one of the worst judging episodes ever, and then. by some of the lamest alibis you ever heard. 
Holyfield blamed a virus and leg cramps -but only after his advisors ruled out "The dog ate my homework." 
World Council judge Larry O'Connell of Britain, who scored the fight 115-115, apparently had trouble with the math. "When someone said my scorecard added up to a draw, my heart sank," he said. "I was surprised as any­one." · 
Eugenia Williams, the IBF judge who scored it 115-113 for Holvfield, was called before a New York state Senate committee investigat­ing the bout. After a week of insisting she saw what she saw, Williams told the commit­tee that maybe she was stuck looking at the back of a ring­side photographer too often ­and that, after watching a replay, she would have scored it differently. 
So naturally, you'd think Williams would be rushing out to ringside in Las Vegas to ,~·ork it this time, or at the very least, one of the first on her block to order the pay­per-view. 
Think again. Nevada r'egula­tors have insisted on providing the judges and Williams has a prior commitment. 
"The children come first," she said Thursday, standing in the doorway of her Atlantic City, 1".J. home. 
In this case the "children" are not hers, but rather the amateur boxers she trains at the Police Athletic League gym next door. They are scheduled to fight Saturday night in a competition in Upper Darby, Pa., and that's where she'll be. 
NFL 
Stewart focuses on Steelers' success 
Associaced Press 
PITTSBURGH 
Bis statlsiics aren't over­whelming, his confidence is skin-thin fragile at times and he often seems more intent on preventing mistakes than with making a big play. · 
To Kurdell Stewart, the self­critical but not always self-con­fident quarterback, the thing that matters the most is the Pittsburgh Steelers are winning again, even if they aren't win­ning the way they did in 1997. 
In those days, Stewart was a dangerous scrambler and an effective downfield passer, onfl who would risk an interception to possibly complete a long touchdown pass. Throwing and running for 32 touchdowns, he was largely responsible for thA Steelers reaching the AFC championship game. 
Two vears later. Stewart is a changed man and a changed quarterback, perhaps because the Steelers have changed offensive coordinators three times in as marry seasons. 
Confused and distracted dur­ing a five-game losing streak late last season, Stewart has played much better during a three-game winning streak that again has the Steelers {5~ 3) thinking playoffs. 
Though he remains among the NFL's lower-rated passers, Stewart has two touchdown passes and no interceptions during the streak. He hit his first six passes for 93 yards before ,the rain began in a 27-6 victory Sunday in San Francisco. 
'Tm not turning the ball over, I'm completing passes and doing the things I need to do as a quarterback," said Stewart, who didn't throw a touchdown pass in his last four starts last season. 
Although content at times to throw safe, short passes, Stewart's pass completion per­centage of 60.2 percent would rank as the highest in team his­tory. One reason for his come­back, Stewart said, is his grow­ing relationship with offensive coordinator Kevin Gilbride. 
"Sometimes he gets real excited about some things," Stewart said. ''But he's always trying to push me to a limil. That's the way he is. If I com­plete a pass, ·ho still tells me, 'Don't lay it down now, keep working, keep working, you can have a great game."' 
Gilbride worked hard last spring at building a relation­ship with Stewart, something that never developed between Stewart and former coordina­tor Ray Sherman, who is now in Minnesota. 
"Kevin's always trying to push me to the limit, and he says there really is no limit," Stewart said. "You can keep getting better as the days and weeks go by. He wants me to understand that just because you have a good game or throw a few good passes, thPre's no reason for you to not keep doing it week in and week out." 
Stewart excelled in Chan Gailey's offense in 1997 in part because of their close relation­ship. 

Stewart and Gilbride interact differently, hut Stewart said that doesn't mean he enjoys working with him any less. 
Gilbride decided to open up the offense in San Francisco, confident that Stewart wouldn't. make poor reads or costly mis­takes. 
"I told him I thought it time to turn it over to him and let him win a game for us," Gilbride said. "I thought he responded beautifully." 
l\ow, Stewart must show he can play as well at home, wb.ere the Steelers are 1-2, as they do on the road, where they are 4c1. The Cleveland Browns (1-8) visit Three Rivers Stadium on Sunday.· 
NBA 
Houston season heavy with loss 
the key," he said. "We have not taken advantage of ... situations when they're in our favor." 
Houston plays the Lakers a~~in on Frida~ night. " Of course I m concerned, Barkley said after the loss to Orlando. "If you're not con­cerm,d, you're a fool." On Nov. 2: voters rejected a proposal to build the team a 
new $160 million arena. As ballots were being counted, the Rockets lost their season open­er 98-93. That night also saw 
the end of the Rockets' string of 148 consecutive regular-season sBfJrjuts. 
LARKIN Accomplished guitarist & folk singer 
TUE.5DAY, NOVEMBER 16 • 7:30p.m. LITTIE THEATRE 
Mn, w.,,,, Coll,,,o
,~~~/{_
~NOTRE DAME, IN 
For ticket information contact Saint Mary's College Box office 
284-4626 


Associated Press 
HOUSTON 
The Houston Rockets opened their season with losses at the polls, on the court and in the ticket booth. 
It's been downhill from there. The Rockets, off to their worst start since 1992, lost their fifth straight game \,Vednesday night, 89-88 to the Los Angeles Lakers. 
"I don't know. We just got to get it together," rookie point guard Steve Francis said. 
"Everybody's angry, but 
there's going to be a time when the Rockets are going to start winning some games." 
Houston went in following losses to the Milwaukee Bucks, Utah Jazz, San Antonio Spurs and Orlando Magic. Wednesday's defeat included a second-quarter wrestling match between Shaquille O'Neal and Charles Barkley that led to both getting ejected. 
Rockets coach Rudy Tomjanovich was angry his team failed to capitalize on O'Neal's departure. 
"If we have to sum up what's happened so far, that's been 
HOMES FOR RENT 
-Domus Properties has six, seven, and eight bedroom houses available 
-Student neighborhoods close to 
campus -Security systems provided -Well maintained homes -Maintenance staff on call 
Available for the 2000/2001 school year 
BETTER HURRY!!! ONLY 4 HOUSES LEFT 
Contact Kramer (219)274-1501 or (219)234-2436 or (219)674-2572 
Priday, November 12, 1999 lhe Observer . SPORTS page 23 
INTERNATIONAL BASKETBALL LEAGUE 
Master P wraps up deal with Stingrays 
S/\N l)IEGO 
Wlwro do mullimillinnairn 1•ntnrt.ai1wrs go to liv<1 out boy­hood dr1•ums of playing profes­sional sports'? 
/\pparPtrtly, San l>ing-o. 
Happnr '.Vtast!'r I'. whoso real 11a11w is l'nrcy Milltff, agnwd Tliursdav lo a mw-yPar conlrn.t:t with Liu: San !ling.; Stingrays of" tlw 1ww lnlr\nrnlional BaskNball l.1•agt1P. 
Earli1•r this yPar. country music superstar (iurlh Brooks joirwd tlw San l>ir•go l'adrris for sprin){ training. 
It's 1101 ahoul tlw mo111\y, they say. It's nlwul playing ball. 
:.If it brings puhlii:ily Lo San l>iPgo and t.l11•ir profpssional l1·ag1ws, t liat 's g-ood," said Mi!l4'1·, whos1· ulbum. "Only (;od Cnn .fudgP MP, .. is ni1-r1mtly orn• of tlui top sl'llt,rs natiunwido. 
"I'm doing this hncauso it.'s my !lrnam to play in tlw NBA. This is going to lwlp nw gnl Uwrn." 
Mill1•r. a 11-foot-4 g11arcl, has twirl' b1H'll n•jnrt1•d hy tlw NBA. 114' was with tlrn Toronto Haplors in training ramp, hut was waiwd in Octobnr. lln was nit hy Ill!' C:harlottl' llorrwls duri11g prPsnason tryouts last 
S!'llS! Hl. 
"Tlw NBA wasn't rPady !'or 11w as a pPrson," Millt-r said. "Sonw pPoplt• Wl'rt' foarful of my suc­l'l'SS. l!l'i:aus1• of tlw morwy. they wrnHli•ri•1l. 'Is lw going to show up'/ Is !11• going to practicP'?' It's likf1 a linor notn abov,) my nanrn: 'What's lw going lo do?'" 
For Jim Sims, Stingrays presi­dent and gnrniral manager. the answnr is simplo. 
"Ilc's in San Diego so he can dean up thn things he needs to do so hn can makn it in tho NBA." said Sims, who described Miller as a g1md shooter. ''Whilr~ he's here, hn'll help the league, he'll lwlp Urn Stiugrays, lrn'll lrn!p Hw community and lw'll help himself." 
IBL r.ontra.cts Hl't' for one year. with an oplim1. The maximum salary is $100,000. S.ims wouldn't disclose Miller's salary, but he said it would bn noar or at the maximum. llow,wer, tlrn mo,wy will go to the I BL's co!­!Pge tuition program. 
Millnr. who has an endorse­ment deal with Converse, has also agwcd lo supply sneakers Lo all eight !BL t11ams, he said. 
The Stingrays draf'tnp Millnr in July and retuincd his signing rights. Coach Smokey Gaines said '.VIill<•r will probably play about half' or fh() (,4 ganws, allowing him to pursue NB/\ stints. · 
Miller's so serious about mak­ing thP hig !!•agues he's giving up music Lo focus on basketball. 
'Tm rnacly lo work just like evnrybody tilse," said Miller, who wore tho rappN uniform ­jogging suit and diamond-stud­ded gold chain -Lo Thursday's 1wws conference. but proudly !wk! up his No. 7 Stingrays jer­s,iy. "This is my job now. It's my chance to prove to the world that I can play basketball and 
RSITY PARK EAS 
ity Pa,-k Dr 277-7336 
HOC ey 
whv I should be in the NBA." 
cine of his demands was the No. 7 jersey, in honor of his boy­hood idol, the la.to I\JB/\ great "Pistol Pete" Maravich, who played for LSU. Miller grew up in New Orle~ns. 
MiUcr will make his debut on Nov. 20. when hA will guard Magic Johnson in a game against Johnson's All-Star team. The league, which starts its inaugural season Nov. 26, includes franchises in Las Vngas. Allmquerqun, Cincinnati, Trenton, St. Louis, Hichmond and Baltimorn. 
Millet·, 29, said h<' always wanted to play basketball, but he got into "gangsta rap" after "losing my brotlrnr to the strn,its" and tu support his fami­ly. 
Miller buill au empire that eanwd him a hJrbes magazine ranking of the 10th wmtlthiest entertainer in 1998 -$56.5 million, a couplP of million morn than Brooks. 
llis labol, No Limit Records, had si.x albums on the Billboard Top 100 last year. Ile also owns a clothing line, a real estate company anrl a mall. IIP pro­duces films. I-le has his own action figure. 
Last year, Miller sold his financial interest in a sports agent business, No Limit Sports. The company represents New Orlnans Saints rookie Hicky Williams, a San Diego native; Denver Nuggets guard Ron \forcer and Los Angeles Clippers guard Derek Anderson. Miller said the company will soon rep­resent him. 
An all-state high school player in t:uuisiana, Miller's collegiate career at Houston was cut short by a knee injury. Before signing with the Hornets, he played with the CBA's Fort Wayne Fury. 
JDM Commun'ications 
NEXT-==-.. 
!! !!:=!!!:::; 
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE 
• 100% National Digital Wireless Network 
• Direct Connect * 
• No Roaming 
• Ask About Our No Long Distance* 
~ 
• No Contracts 
Call Today and Ask About Our: 250 Anytime Cellular Minutes w/ I 000 Free Weekend Minutes* 
For $40°0 per month 
219 237 1082 802 East LaSalle Ave .. South Bend. IN 46617 · --(Just South of SL Joseph's Medical Center) 
I 0% Off of Equipment and/or Accessories w/This Ad 
(Valid tbru I 1-30-99) 
www.jdrncornmunications.com 
"Bringing You Tomorrow's Wireless Technology Today" 
Tonight and Saturday vs. Alaska· Fairbanks 7:00pm 
First 100 students get free pizza! 
B0 B Win a FREE Playstation f½@\Ylr;i~ at Friday's game courtesy0~UeJ ofK-B Toys 
NFL 
Staubach advises AikDlan to stay put 
Associated Press 
!HYING, Texas 
Although Hoger Staubach left thr-Dallas Cowboys to avoid any more blows to his head, he doesn't bti!ieve Troy Aikman should rntirc after two concussions in eight days. 
·=sonrnonP didn't tell me to retire," the Hall or Fame quarterback said Thursday. "I wantod to remember why I retired. I was 38. II' I was :B, I wouldn't have retirod." 
Aikman, who turns 33 a week from Sunday, will miss a game because of' a conc11s­sion for the first time in his career Sunday when Dallas plays (;reon Bay. Aikman has had seven concussions in his 11-ycar career. 
With three Super Bowl vic­tories, tcus of millions of dol­lars in the bank and a wed­ding just months away, a case could be made for Aikman to walk away from football while he still can. 
Staubach said the only way Im could imagine Aikman ev,m thinking about retiring would be if doctors say he should. 
"Some people don't rnalizc how intense Troy is," Staubach said. "He's got Micha.el Jordan's mentality on winning. Backing away is not going to be easy. 
"Besides, he's still playing great. I think he has another Super Bowl or two in him." 
Staubach was still playing well in his last year. 1979, but he was concerned by the 
number of concussions he'd suffered over 11 seasons. With backup Danny Whiln capable of replacing him. Staubach did what he thought was bnst. 
"I had onn doctor who said I should and orrn who said there was no medical mason why 1should. But I foll it was lime," said Staubach, who led Dallas to four Super Bowls, winning two. 
Aikman bPcanw a Cowboy a decade art.er St.auhach left, 
.. 
but the two havo heco1iw good friends. Tlwy'vn talknd about lots or things, includ­ing concussions_ Thn circum­stances a.round Staubach's rctiremont hasn't bn,rn a topic o!' convnrsatio,~. 
We ve ,rnvnr d1s1'.ussnd anything about it," Staubach said. 
Stauhach has had that dis­cussion in rm:nnt weeks with Stove Young, Lim San Francisco quarterback who has been told by doctors he should rntirn aftm !011g-lin­Wlrnd effocts from his most recent con(·ussion. 
"lie asked mo what my thinking process was, what I went through. what my feel­ings were, how much I missed it," Staubach said. 
Staubach spoke to Aikman a few days after Im took a helmetato-helmet hit from Indianapolis' Jeff Burris on Oct. 31. 
"We talked striclly philo­sophically about dealing with a season when ynu'rn incon­sistent," 
Staubach said. "I told him it reminded me of' our '75 season when wn made the playoffs as a wild-card team and went to the Super Bowl." 
The hit by Burris left Aikman more susceptible to another concussion when lrn played 
Minnesota on Monday night. Surn enough, Jerry Ball dumped Aikman on his head and the headaches and dizziness returned -on !y this time, they were more intense. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories ofBooks 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service: $2.00 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 
~ Womens Socx:er ~ NCAA 2nd Round 
Sunday v. Dayton 1:00pm Alumni Field First 200 Students Free! 
Womerts BasketbaJ 1 
Monday vs. EOS Malbas 7:00pm 
Joyce Center fflarfinr 
First l,OOOfans will receive afree Klacker supm111ARkm 

,...-----------------~-~------------------. -----· ­
-
I 
I 
page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November 12, 1999 
NFL 
Nolan comes under _fire for Redskins' poor defense 
they would finish 257 yards Huff, the team·s radio analyst, the sideline. You can't make Speculation that Nolan's job
Associated Press 
behind the NFL record set bv questions why middle line­tackles from there." was in jeopardy intensified 
I 
I •
' 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Iowa stuns UConn in Classic upset 
the second half.
Associated Press 
Connecticut beat Iowa 78­
68 in the second round of the 
NEW YORK NCAA tournament last year. 
lowa. with a new coach and The Huskies went on to win almost a whole new team four more games and the from last season, stunned national title, while Iowa top-ranked and defending didn't play again until national champion Thursday night. Connecticut 70-68 Thursday The Hawkeyes' start had a night in the opening round of sellout crowd of 19,548 silent. the Coaches vs. Cancer The noise level picked up Classic at Madison Square along with the Huskies' Garden. defense and shooting in the 
The Hawkeyes looked like second half, but Iowa the veteran team, opening a wouldn't fold. 16-4 lead on the way to a 36-Albert Mouring's 3-pointer 21 halftime advantage as the with 7 minutes, 6 seconds to Huskies shot just 26 percent play gave Connecticut a 55-53 and had twice as many led, but sophomore Kyle 
turnovers (14) as field goals. Galloway, who missed last 
In the second half, season with a back injury, hit Connecticut looked more like a 3 with 6:33 left and Iowa the team that returns three didn't trail again. starters from the national El-Amin scored on a drive champions, and even took the with 57 seconds left to get the lead once. Huskies within 67-65, but 
But the Hawkeyes refused Jaacks hit one of two free to fold. throws with 32 seconds left. 
Iowa will meet No. 13 After two missed 3s by Stanford in Friday night's Connecticut, Ryan championship game. Luehrsmann made two free 
The Cardinal beat No. 10 throws with three seconds to Duke 80-79 in overtime go. Kevin Freeman's 3-point­Thursday night. er with .5. seconds left only 
Jacob Jaacks had 20 points made it closer. for Iowa, Dean Oliver added It was thB 22nd consecutive 14 and Kyle Galloway had l l. season-opening victory for 
Khalid El-Amin, focus of a Iowa and the second time in newspaper story earlier in four years the defending the day about a possible national champion lost its NCAA violation involving a opener. Kentucky lost to borrowed car, had 26 points Clemson to open the 1996-97 for the Huskies, all but two in season. 
backer Derek Smith is being Criticism is nothing new for when the Redskins hired 72­pulled in third-down passing Nolan, sun of former l'iFL coach year-old Bill Arnsparger four situations. Dick No.Ian. He's heard tons of weeks ago. 
"Your best hitters and tack­it since the season opener, Nolan is hanging un with the lers are linebackers. and Smith when Dallas recovered from a help of coach Norv Turner, who is out of the game," H11ffsaid. 21-point, fourth-quarter deficit reportedly has asked trigger­
"We're in an age of special­to beat the Redskins 41-35 in happy owner Dan Snyder sev­ization, and he's standing on overtime. eral times not to fire Nolan. 
cinema@thesnite 
i''ic :-'.··:'4. 
CRITICS AND AUDIENCES AGREE: 
OOilt\HT1mlY 
"BREATIITAKIN6! 
Tender, elusive. and exquisitely layered. _Bertolucci's best film in years. Its adeeply felt love story!" ~­
1 
J.OSN161USJ)U
~-.. 
!J;' "ENCIQNTIN.6! RAVISUINGLY BEAUTlfUL! 
.Bertolucd is in top form with this seductive fi]m~ 
thondie newton ·,.. ·david thewlis 
besieged 
· a bernardo bertolucci film 
lllP.ll"
................-. 
Fri. &Sat. 7:30 p.m. and 9:45 p.m. 
presented by ND Film, Television, and Theatre www.nd.edu/~cothweb 
''HOLL~WOOD MICHTI'' C414PUI-WIDI D4MCIP4RT~ 

Saturday 
9PM-1AM 
4£UJ4MI-IIMIOR C.LUB 
FREE FOOD! 
FREE A.OMISSION! 
Brouglat lo you Ly: Student ;\.ctiYilies Office & Classes of 2002 & 2003 
A-LL A-GE SWELCO~Ei 
WASHINGTON 
Washington lledskins defen­sive coordinator Mike Nolan is asked the question so much it probably sounds like a broken record. 
How could the Redskins' defense. a potentially dominant unit featuring six former No. 1 draft choices, be ranked among the NFL's worst? 
"The perception i.s that when you pay guys a lot of money ... you try to get a return on what you pay for," Nolan said. 
"But you have to play togeth­er, no matter what you pay somebody. It's my responsibili­ty and the responsibility of the other coaches on defense for us to get them to play together. That's where we're falling short." 
The Redskins (5-3) have been carried this season by one of the league's bHst offenses. 
But they're allowing 402.3 yards per game, nearly 50 yards more than anyone else team except the expansion Cleveland Browns, who are at 
389.7. In Sunday's 34-17 loss to Buffalo, the Bills. who had been struggling offensively, amassed 413 yards. 
The Redskins have yielded 3,218 yards. By continuing on that pace with eight games left, the Baltimore Colts in 1981. · 
Opposing runners are finding cracks in a Redskins starting defensive line composed entire­ly of first rounders: Marco Coleman. Kenard Lang, Dan Wilkinson and Dana Stubblefield. 
Inconsistency is one problem. 
In the past month, the Redskins played poorly on defense in losses to Dallas and Buffalo, while putting forth solid efforts in victories over Arizona and Chicago. 
"You can't play good one week and terrible the next," Lang said. "That just doesn't happen." · 
Nolan said the pass coverage, primarily on third downs, needs to improve. The Rills converted nine of 15 third­down opportunities, controlling the ball for 41 of 60 minutes. 
"Against Buffalo, there was a lot of one, two and minus-vard run plays," Nolan said. '~But the.Ji all of a sudden they'll complete a pass to the tight end down the middle and the ball's back alive. You get them in third down and the quarter­back runs and gets a first down and keeps it alive. You kind of shoot yourself in the foot when that happens." 
Hall of Fame linebacker Sam 

Friday, November 12, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
NBA 
Harrington scores 17 in fourth to put Pacers over Magic 
INDIANAPOLIS 
ltq~gic 11,;Jillnr scornd 21 points and rns1H·vp Al llarrington had 17 of his car(•1\r-high 1<J points in tlrn fourth pNiocl to lead the Indiana Pac1•rs tu a I H,-10 l vic­lory 11wr tlw Orlando Magil' on Thursday night. 
The Pacers hroke opnn a dose garnn in tlrn spconcl half, shoot­ing (i7 porccnL (20-ol'-30) from tlw li(•ld. For thn ganm, Indiana shot a sm1son-high 57 percent from tlm liPld. 
llarrcll Armstrong !Pd Orlando with 22 points, whiln Indiana had six 11layers finish in duubln figures. Jalen Hose and Travis lfost contributed 17 apiece. 
The ganrn was tiod 10 Unrns and them were eight lead changes before Indiana moved ahead to stay 62-60 on a hook shot bv Hik Smits. 
The·Pacers lod by as many as 11i11e points in the third quart.ir and took tlrnir lirst double-digit load as Orlando wcni nearly three minutes without scoring to start the fourth quarter. 
A 3-puinter by Miller ignitnd a J4-3 run by Indiana to start the t'inal period. Harrington had seven points in the run. 

HOME OF THE ORIGINAL... 
Stuffed Pizza 
Come and Enjoy One of The Areas 
Hours: 
Fine Pizza and Pasta Houses 
Located behind Hacienda In the 100 Center, Llncolnway W., Mishawaka 
Mon.-Thurs. 5-10 PM Fri. & Sat. 5-11 PM 
254-9177 

Orlando's only points came on a 3-pointer by Chucky Atkins with 
9:16 to play. 
With llal"rington leading the way, the Pacers went on to load 99-82 with 6:39 to play. 
Orlando. which had won three straight, never got back into con­tention and trailed by as many as 21. 
Seattle 109, Cleveland 103 
Gary Payton had 27 points and nine assists and Vin Baker scored 24, leading the Seal.tie Supersonics to a victory over the Clevoland Cavaliers. 
Payton, who needed medical lreatrnent for a tight back al halftime, scored 12 points in the third quarter and hit a key jumper in the final three minutes a., the Sonics hold off a Cleveland rally. 
Raker, able to push his way around inside against the small­er Cavs. added 13 rebounds and Horace Grant had 10. 
Shawn Kemp led Cleveland with 22 points despite 8-of-23 shooting and Andrew DeClercq had a career-high 19 points. 
The Cavs had won 27 straight games when scoring over 100 points, but couldn't catch the Sonics down the stretch because of some costly turnovers and poor shot selection. 
Brent Barry had four 3-point­e rs and added 17 points for Seattle. which has won nine straight over Cleveland, includ­ing the last five at Gund Arena. 
Trailing by 10 points, the Cavs pulled within 96-93 with 3:40 left when Danny Ferry grabbed a loose ball and dropped a 12­foot baseline jumper. 
Barry's 3-pointer from tho right side put the Sonics back up by six before Bob Sura's 3 on Cleveland's next trip closed it to 99-96 with 2:58 remaining. 
SIEMENSWestinghouse 
Science and Technology 
Competition Midwest Regionals Saturday, November 13 CCE Auditorium University of Notre Dame 
The
College
EBoard 
Siemens Foundation 
B-11:30 am: 
lndividuaffleam Competition 
5-6pm: 
Keynote Speaker Dr. Leon Lederman, 1988 Nobel Prize Winner in Physics "'Science and Science Education for the Next Millenium" 
Payton made the biggest bas­ket of the game with 2:37 left by knocking down a 17-footer niiar the foul line. 
After rookie Andre Miller's free throw made it 101-97, r;rant hit a jumper with one ser,­ond left on tlrn 24-second clock and Barry made a foul shot when Kemp committed a techni­cal foul. 
Payton was late coming out to tho floor for the second half after gelling an electrical treatment for his back. and Shammond Williams started for him. Once Payton checked in, he scored six straight points in a 9-0 run as Seattle took control. 
Barry's 3-pointer capped the spurt to give Seattle a 70-63 lead. After the Cavs closed with­in three, t.hc Sonics went on an 11-0 run to push the lead to 83­
67. The Sonics opened a 36-28 lead after one quarter, making 6-of-8 3-pointers in the period. 
Cleveland's bench, just like it has in the first four games this season, brought the Cavs back. When rookie Trajan Langdon made his second 3-pointer of the second quarter. Cleveland had tied it at 48-all with 4:50 left. 
Declercq, who finished with 16 points on 7-f'or-11 shooting in the first half, scored Cleveland's next five points a., the Cavs took a 60-56 lead at the break. 
Toronto 123, Detroit 106 
Doug Christie scored 24 points and Vince Carter added 22 points and 11 rebounds as the Toronto Raptors won their fourth straight game over the Detroit Pistons. 
Chri-stie and Carter were among seven Raptors in double figures. Kevin Willis (18 points, 13 rebounds) and Antonio Davis (10 points, 11 rebounds) also had double-doubles. 
Grant Hill led Detroit with 25 points, but shot just 6-for-22. Jerry Stackhouse had 21 points. 
The Pistons, who never led in losing their home opener loss to New York last Friday, did not start out any better against Toronto. The Raptors scored the first four points of' the game and never looked back, rolling to a 41-28 lead after the first quar­ter. 
Toronto increased its margin to 53-32 early in the second 

REDA 
RTME 

Now Leasing! 
3 4 Blocks from Campus
).·,,.:-;:,,; 
;~\Jt)!~\;ki<;:/,, 
;8'>t,;arge 2-Bedrooms for under $500.00! ,~I ;,~{&-Leasing for Fall 2000! 
=j::;i~:~riiJ?i.Jtt:: \W: 
1JJest Value In Off Campus Living" 
·. Profess~onally Managed by ~al Estate Management Corp.
:-·~:-,,.., 
234-9923 
before the Pistons madn a run. 
Six points from Stackhouse and four from llill lnd a 14-4 surge that pull11d Detroit within 59-48. The Haplors recovered, though, and were ahead 74-57 at halftime. 
Detroit rallied again in the third, pulling to 88-78 bef'oro Christie's 3-pointer nndPd the run. 
Toronto led 98-87 af'ter thrnn quarters, and put the game away with an 8-3 run at the start of the fourth. 
Miami 128, Dallas 105 
Jamal Mashburn, a former first-round pick of the Mavericks, scored 34 points and 
·• II
the Miami Ileat beat Dallas for the 15th straight time. 
Miami, which has won three in a row overall, has not lost to Dallas since a 114-110 dofeat Dec. 10, 1991, at H1rnnion Arena. 
The 128 points wern the most by the Heat since they scored 129 against Detroit on April 23, 1995, in tho regular-snason finale. 
The Mavericks, who have lost three in a row. got a season-high 2:{ points from 7-f'ooter Dirk Nowitzki. 
Tim Hardaway had 16 points in 27 minutes and Alonzo Mourning added 18 in an abbre­viated stint for the lleat. P.J. Brown had 15 points and 11 rebounds, and reserve guard Anthony Cartnr had 10 assists. 
Miami led 45-3(, when Mashburn scored tho team's next 11 points. That evolved into a 21-6 burst that extended the Heat's lead to 66-44 with 4:31 left, in the first half'. 
Mashburn shot 13-for-l 9 from the field in :fl minutes. It was his highest-scoring game for Miami, though his career high of' 50 came with the Mavericks in 1994. After Shawn Bradley hit a rare 3-pointer. Cedric Ceballos hit a running jumpfff to cap ofT a 16-6 run that cut Miami's 27­point lead to 90-7 4 late in the third quarter. 
Mashburn hit a spinning drive that turned into a three-point play and then had a tip-in that helped the lleat open up a 97-76 lead after three quarters. 
Mashburn scored four points and Hardaway hit a 3-pointer lo 
I 
give the Heat a 9-0 lead. I 
~ I 
I 
I I 
• 
I 
I 
I 
I 
------·-------­
w 
page 26 
NASCAR 
NASCAR enjoys ride as ratings soar 
Associated Press 
The moonshine-running Good 01' Boys could never have imagined this: a sport born on dirt tracks in the backwoods of the South is now worth $2.4 billion in TV rights. 
During the '90s, television ratings for NASCAR have risen while those for other sports have fallen. Sponsors annually pay up to $12 mil­
.. 
lion to racing teams to have their logos emblazoned on their cars. There have been no holdouts, lockouts or strikes to turn off its wildly enthusiastic fans. 
Thus, it's no surprise that NASCAR has quadrupled its TV income and will gtc)t $400 million annually under the new six-vear deal with Fox, NBC and TBS announced Thursday. 
"This sport has taken grad­ual steps up and along the way there have been some big leaps and bounds. This is one of those," said Jeff Gordon, NASCAR's biggest star. 
"But this is probably the biggest leap it's ever taken," he said. "It's neat to be part of it. I'm enjoying the ride." 
NASCAR fans cross just about all demographic lines and include those who rooted for Richard Petty, the retired driver known simply as "The King," all the way down to the younger generation's idols such as Gordon and Tony Stewart. 
Their interest has fueled a building boom in the sport that has added gleaming new speedways in Texas, Las Vegas and near Los Angeles and expanded and refur­bished old ones. 
"NASCAR has shown explo­sive and huge growth on the upside. It is the success story of the '90s," said David Hill, president and CEO of Fox Sports. 
Mike Helton, senior vice 
I 
I -president and chief operating I officer of NASCAR, said the historic 
TV agreement was made possible by the sport's longevity and continuity. 
Helton said the sport, which was formed in 1948 by the late Bill France Sr., has outgrown its bucolic image. 
"All that evolution has debunked that old redneck stereotype," he said. "I think we can stand pretty tall and feel real good about the age range, economic level and the male-female balance that we have now. It all comes from exposure." 
Bill Croasdale, media buyer f'or Western Initiative Media, agreed that the NASCAR audience has grown beyond its Southeastern roots in recent years. "It's started to catch on 
everywhere,'' he said. 
The races are particularly appealing for young men between ages 18 and 34, a group that is difficult to reach via television. 
The TV deal, which begins in 2001 and runs for six years with NBC and TBS and eight years with Fox, is about four times what NASCAR is making under its current agreements. 
Those cover many separate deals for races, most of them negotiated by the tracks on which NASCAR races, with CBS, ABC, ESPN, TNN, TBS and NBC. 
Sunday's inaugural Winston Cup race at Homestead-Miami Speedway will be the first ever broad­cast by NBC, while Fox has yet to show its first NASCAR race. TBS televised races earlier this season at Pocono International Raceway and Lowe's Motor Speedway in Concord, N.C. 
In 1985, NASCAR received just. $3 million for the TV rights to 28 races. In 1999, total TV revenues were esti­mated at $100 million for 34 events. 
"This puts us in line with the other major league sports. It should have hap­pened sooner," said seven­time champion driver Dale Earnhardt. 
The new deal gives NASCAR more money annu­ally than baseball and hockey get from their national TV deals, but less than the NFL and NBA. 
The NFL is in the second year of an $18 billion, eight­year deal with CBS, Fox, ABC and ESPN; the NBA is in the second year of its $2.64 bil­lion, four-year contract with NBC and Turner Sports; baseball just completed the fourth year of a $1.7 billion, five-year deal with Fox, NBC and ESPN; and the NHL is in the first year of a $600 mil­lion, five-year contract with ABC and ESPN. 
Baseball, the NBA, and NHL also receive millions of dollars annually in local tele­vision deals. 
If there has been any knock on NASCAR in the recent past, it has been that the races have been spread across too many outlets, often making it difficult for fans to figure out where and when the races were being telecast. 
"The change for NASCAR fans is it will be easier to find races each week on network television," said NBC Sports chairman Dick Ebersol. 
In fact, France noted that, although a precise schedule is yet to be determined, beginning in 2001 "about 70 percent" of the races will be on network television. 
With the races consolidated under one TV contract, advertisers will be more like­ly to buy multiyear par,kages 1 that will let them appear on all of the races. 
Fox, along with cable part­ners Fox Spurts Net and FX, will get the first 18 weeks of the NASCAR season, while NBC and TBS will split the second half. 
The season-opening Daytona 500, the sport's pre­mier event, will alternate each year, with NBC getting it in even years and Fox in odd years. 
Helton said he secs no end in sight for the spectacular growth of NASCAR. 
"What we have in our 
favor, in an odd kind of way, 
is we're taking our sport 
from rural areas to urban 
areas," he said. 
The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November 12, 1999 
TENNIS 
Williams wins in semifinal round 
Associated Press 
VILLANOVA, Pa. 
Venus Williams overcame a slow start to roll past 16-year­old qualifier Daniela Bedanova of the Czech Republic 6-4, 6-1 Thursday night to advance to the quarterfinals of the Advanta Championships. 
Williams, seeded third, will meet unseeded Sandrine Testud of France on Friday. 
After falling behind 4-2 in the first set, Williams swept the final four games, coming more to the net to force play, and cap­turing the first set when Bcdanova's forehand sailed over the baseline. 
Williams jumped to a 2-0 lead in the second set, before having her service broken for the sec­ond time in the match. She broke back when Bedanova double-faulted, then wasted lit­tle time finishing off her hard­hitting but overmatched oppo­
nent. 
"l just dropped my serve a · couple of times," Williams said. "But I've been in that situation of being down a break before. I was able to keep my calm and take my time. 
"She was definitely hitting 
hard. But I was definitely volley­
ing better. After the U.S. Open I 
worked on my volley. l don't 
think I missed one tonight." 
"It was a good match for my 
first time,"Bedanova said. "I 
learned I can play with such a 
player like her. 
"But I have to do a lot of 
improving -in everything. I 
have to move better to play in a 
baseline match like that." 
Earlier, Nathalie Tauziat of 
France rallied from a 5-2, third­
set deficit to beat Jennifer 
Capriati 6-4, 3-6, 7-5 in the sec­
ond round. Tauziat, seeded 
fourth, meets local favorite Lisa 
Raymond of Wayne, Pa., on 
Friday. 
Testud heat seventh-seeded 
Dominique Van Roost of Belgium 6-4, 6-4. 
Amy Frazier beat 17 -year-old Belgian Justine Benin 7-5, 6-4 to keep alive a slim hope of making the 16-woman field for the upcoming Chase Championships in New York. Frazier must now beat the top player in the world and No. 1 seed here, Martina Hingis, on Friday night to bump Arantxa Sanchez Vicario from the field. 
Capriati's loss to Tauziat, after she seemed in command in the final set, officially eliminated her from contention for the Chase. 
"At 5-2 on her serve, 1 had a really bad line call go against me," said Capriati, who beat Tauziat the previous live times they played. "From that point on, she didn't miss a ball. 
"She played really well. It wasn't like I didn't have chances or was playing terrible. That's just the way tennis is. It has a snowball effect," Capriati said. 
If our delicious, flame-broiled double cheeseburger were any bigger, we'd need to buy more ad space. 
Nothmg beats our big, juicy Double Cheeseburger. It's got the great taste offlame broiling and has 750/o more beef than McDonald's® Cheeseburger. 
(Price and participation may vary.) 
The Huddle -Lafortune Student Center 
.. 
It just tastes better. 
© 1998 Burger King Corporation. Burger King Corporation is the exclusive licensee of the Bun Halves logo trademark. McDonald's is a registered trademark of the McDonald's Corporation. 


Friday, November 12, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 27 
NHL 
Senators fall prey to Predator offense in 2-1 loss 
Asso,iatcd Press 
KJ\N/\T/\, Ontario 
c;rn){ Johnson and Hnbert Valiccvir nuch scored to give the Nashville Prndators a 2-1 victory Thursday night over tlw Ottawa SPnators. 
Valic1wic brokn a 1-1 tin late in llrn St't:oncl puriod as tlw l'n•da1ors ralliNi to win their s,~cond ganw in as many nighl,; a11d hnlt Ottawa'.s thrnn-game winning s1rcak. 
Wadn Heddnn scored for Ottawa, whil'l1 lost for just tlie sPrond timP in IO homn ganws. 
Mikn Dunham mado :n savns for his fifth win of tlw season. 
Hon Tugnutt stoppPd 21 shots and lost to Nashvill,• for thn first ti11m in Ihn·P ,·an•Pr starts. 
1!,•dd,•11 opc1wd Llw scoring I mi11111P. 24 s1q•o11<ls into the 1-;am1• wh<'ll lu• look a pass from Magnus Arvndson al Llw lop of' Liu• ldt facpof'f drrlr: and beat lltrnham with a low shot just i11sid1• tlw far post. 
Nashvilll' tied t.lw game at 14::{2 of thn first on tlw power play al11•r ,Jon .lu11nau was callnd l'or hooking. 
Tlw Senators were caught d1a11ging li1ws wlwn l'roclators dPfonsPman Kimmo Timmanen foci .Johnson in full st.ride up the middle. Johnson b1\at Tugm1tt to Um glovn side for his third goal of llw s,mson. 
With lnss than four minutes remaining in llw second. Ville 1'1dlorrnn pickPd up a long n•hournl in the Ottawa zone and his wrisl shot dcflnrtcd off Valicnvic's lt~g past a screened TugrllllL 
Ollawa outshot Nashville 1 l-2 in l.11P third pnriod but coultln't get 1.lw 1iqualizcH'. 
Philadelphia 4, Carolina 1 
l·rir Lindrns, Eric D11sjardins ancl Sandy McCarthy scornd snc­ond -1w ri od goals to lnad l'hiladdphia ovnr tlw Carolina 11 urricarrns. 
"tark Her.chi added an empty­1wt goal with 45 seconds left, whilti Valeri Zelepukin and John L11Clair added two m;sists for the Flyers, who arn 9-2-1 aftnr going 0-!i-I to slarl the season. 
l.llClai r has IO points in his last six games, the longest r.ur­rmil scoring streak in the NHL. 
Bates Battaglia scorf>d the only goal for the Hurricanes, who have dropped two straight but still have the best road record (5-4-3) in the Eastern Conference. 
Ron Francis had an assist for Carolina, moving him past Gordie Howe into fifth place on the NIii. career list with 1,050. 
Battaglia put the llurrir.anos alu~ad 1-0 with a power-play goal at 6:03 of t)lo first period, tipping thtl puck off the foll skate of' PhiladPlphia 1-;oaltnndtif Brian 
Boucher  from  right  of'  Urn·  
crease.  
The Flyers pulled tivrn  one  

minute into Lhn second period when Lindros one-handnd a shot from the doorstep that skidded past the outstretched glovo of' Carolina goaltender Arturs lrhn. 
With Philadelphia on a power play, Lindros r,~cl D1isjardins with a cross-icn pass and tlrn Flynrs' dcfensmnan one-timtid lhc puck past lrbe's glove sidn at 11: I 0. 
Zclepukin, playing his 500th NIii. game, triggered Philadelphia's third g()al of the period. 
!In picknd up a loose puck dcnp in the PlyP-rs' zone and fed Daymond Langkow, who round McCarthy for a wrist shot off' lrbe's pads at 15:10. 
Boucher, a rookie making only his third start of' the year, made 10 saves as Philadelphia outshot the Hurricanes 37-11, Carolina's lowest shot total of the sea.son. 
Philadelphia defenseman Chris Thoricn received eight stitches in his chin af'ter being hit with a puck off the stick of Carolina's Sami Kapancm early in the sec­ond period. I le returned to play in the third period. 
The Hurricanes, who have the fewest penalties in the NJIL, were assessed 10 minutes in penalties against the Flyers. 
lrbe had blanked the Flyers 2­0 in Philadelphia on Oct. 7 in the teams' only previous meeting. 
Montreal 2, Anaheim 1 
"lartin Hucinsky scored for the fourth straight gamn and Sergei Zholtok got his first goal of the season as the Montreal Canadiens stopped a nine-game winless skid with a victory over the Anaheim Mighty Ducks. 
.Jell' Hackett stopped 24 shots as the Canadicns won for the 
INTERESTED IN SCIENCE, TECHNOlOGY. AND ETHICAl QUESTIONS? 
Moral Issues surrounding technoloov assessment. bioethics. human genetics. environmental management, computerization, and archllectural design confront us evervdav. 
To eXPlore these problems In denlh, invesHoate the unique Notre Dame STV Program. This Is aminor requiring 15 hours or course credits that can be taken bV students in anv college. Wllhln the STV Program vou mav develop con­centrations In specific tracks emphasizing STV lnterac­uons with Business: Environmental Studies: Pre-profes­sional Studies: Philosophy and Theology; Computerization and Phvslcal Sciences: and Government and Public Policv. 
course offerings tor Spring 2000 mav be reviewed bV infor­
mation obtained at 346 O'Shaughnessv, or visit our website at http://www.nd.edu/-stv. Call 631-5015 for apersonal appointment. 
lirst time since beating Buffalo on Oct. 16. Montreal had gone 0­8-1 in that span. 
The victory was also just Montreal's second at the Molson Ccntrr. this season. 
ThB Canadi@s, who have the second fowost points in the league with 10, have scored more than two goals in just thrno of 17 games this season. 
Matt Cullen had the lone goal for the Mighty Ducks. Hucinsky opened the scoring 
10:21 into OHl first period when he complci.cd a give-and-go passing play with Trevor Linden by sliding the puck past Mighty Ducks goaltendBr · Guy llebort.. 
The Canadiens took a 2-0 load 
3:47 into tho second period when Zholtok bpat Ilebert from the slot aller taking a pass from Jim Cummins. 
Anaheim drnw to 2-1 as Culfon beat llackctt through lhe legs 
9:16 into the second. Thn Mighty Ducks outshot the Canadiens 2.5-24. 
All lhre,, gnals were scored at even ?trength as referee Dan O'llalloran called just three minor penalties in the game, two against Montreal in the first period and one against Anaheim in the third. 
Boston 4, Toronto 3 
P.J. Axelsson scored with 1:02 remaining in overtime and Dave /\ndreychuk scored two third period goals, to rally the Boston Bruins lo victory over the Toronto Maple. 
Axelssnn took a pass from Darren Van lmpo, and back­handed a shot over the left shoulder or Toronto goaltender Curtis Joseph. 
Dave J\ndreychuk tied the game at 3 with just under four minutes remaining after con­verting a pass from .Jason Allison and beating Joseph. 
Ray Bourque added three assists for the Bruins, who have won live straight at home and are unbeaten in their last se,ven home games. 
Andreychuk is tied with .Jaromir Jagr of Pittsburgh for the league lead with 13 goals in 1 7 games and is only two shy or his total from last season. 
Andreychuk also moved into 17th on the career goal-scoring list passing Maurice "Rocket" Richard. 
With the Bruins trailing 3-1 and on the power play, J\ndreychuk poked a shot past Joseph while falling down, cut­ting the Maple Leafs lead to one goal. 
Andrnychuk, spoiled the return of former Bruin Dmitri Khristich, who led the team with 29 goals-Jast year, and was sec­ond on the team in scoring. 
The Bruins decided not to re­sign Khristkh after they refusl!d to pay a salary arbitrator's award of $2.8 million, thus mak­ing him a free agent. 
Khristich signed a four-year deal with Toronto in Ortobcr. 
Joseph had 32 saves for lhe Maple Leafs, who are winless in their last four games. 
Khristich gave Toronto an early 1-0 lead, when he slipped the puck past goaltender Byron Dafoe at 14:37 of the first peri­od. 
Jonas Hoglund made it 2-0 when be scored his team-leading ninth goal of the season at 17:48 of the first period. With the Maple Leafs on the power-play, Hoglund converted a crnss-icc pass from Yanic Perrault and scornd just inside the left. post. 
The Maple Leafs had not scored a goal in their previuus 15 power-play opportunities. 
/\nson Carter cut Toronto's lead to 2-1, when he poked in a rebound off the stkk of Mikko Eloranta past a sprawling Joseph at 4:24 of the second period. 
Dafoe, who was originally acquired with Khristich in 1997 in a trade with the Los Angeles Kings, had 16 saves for the Bruins. 
Sergei Berezin scored the Maple Leafs second power-play goal of the game when his slap shot sailed by Dafoe at 11 :53 of the second period, giving Toronto a 3-1 lead. 
New York 5, Washington 4 
Tim Taylor scored 1:04 into overtime to give the New York Rangers a come-from-behind victory over the Washington Capitals. 
Calle Johansson scored off a pass from Adam Oates to give the Capitals a 4-3 lead with 
13:21 left in the third period. 
But Petr Nedved tied the game for New York with 19 seconds left in regulation to set up Taylor's game-winning goal. 
Nedved and Michael York both scored two goals apiece for the Rangers. Oates had a goal and an assist for Washington, scor­ing his first goal since the Capitals' 66th game of last sea­son. 
.Johansson also had a goal and an assist, his 300th assist as a Capital. Scott Stevens is the only other Washington defenseman to reach that total. 
What's the difference between a good job and a great job? 
Here's how to find out. 

It's no secret. This is the most competitive job market in history. Today a college graduate can expect several job offers before graduation. What should you be looking for? What should you expect? What information will help you maximize your earning potential? You'll find the answers at a special career seminar presented by Hewiu Associates LLC, a global consulting firm specializing in human resource solutiom. 
Seminar: Evaluating Job Offers 
November 16, 1999 
7:00 PM 
Flanner Hall, Room G20 

Never underestimate the importance of peo 
www.hewitt.com 
DesJ)ite thn win. the Hungers came up empty on all four power plays. They have gone scoreless on all ]5 extra-man chances in road games and scornd on only four of 7 6 power plays this year. 
Both teams scored on their first shots of the gamfl. Knn Kl,ie gave Washington a 1-0 load .2::n into the game by buating Nnw York goaltender Mike Hichtcr with a slap shot from just inside the blue line. 
Nt>dv11d titHI thn scorn !'our minutes later :~o after taking a nice reod from .Ian lllavac and !'iring a shot past Olaf Kolzig from b11twem1 tlw cirdns. 
Washington then was awardrd a penalty shot aftPr a Hangor foll on the puck in the crnasn with 56 seconds lnfi in tlw 1wriod. llowevor, Bichler stopped Hichard Zednik's low shot. 
Oatns gavn Washiligt.on a 2-I lead with his first goal of the season 4:50 into th•1 sncond peri­od . .Joe Sacco gavo Urn Capitals a 3-l load when lw knocked in thn rebound or Johansson's shot at 12;59 of'the pPriod. 
New York cut tlrn hmd to 3-2 one minute later when York broke in alone on Kolzig, who got a glove on the shot, uut it trickled over the line. York then tied it with I: lO left in the period by poking a perfect crossing pass from Theo Fleury past Kolzig. 
The Capitals outshot Nnw York 34-23. 
Los Angeles 5, Colorado 2 
Ziggy Palffy and Marko Tuomainen stunned Patrick Hoy with goals 52 seconds apart on c.onsecutive shots fo the first period as the Los Angeles Kings bnat the Colorado Avalanclrn. 
Palffy also assisted on the first goal of the season by Len Barrie and Vladimir Tsyplakov scored his first two goals of the year, helping the Kings improve their record to 10-4-4. It is their best start since 1992-93, wlrnn they went to the Stanley Cup Finals. 
Los Angeles is six games over .500 for the first time since April 18, 1998. The victory was the Kings' first in three gamos since losing Jozef' Stumpe! and loading goal-~corcr Luc Robitaille for 
several  weeks  because  of  
injuries.  
Chris  Dingman  and  Jon  

Klemm scored for tho Avalanche against Kings backup goaltender Jamie Storr, who played consec­utive games from start to finish for the first tim11 since Feb. 6-10 of last season while Stephane Fiset nurses a bruised right hand. 

====;c.-----.----­
.. page 28 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November 12, 1999 
VOLLEYBALL 
ByMATT OLIVA 
Spores Writer 
The Notre Dame volleyball team, one of four teams to have already secured a place in the Big East tournament, plays its last two regular-sea­son games this weekend against Villanova and Georgetown. 
With two wins, the Irish can claim first place in the Big East. 
The Irish (16-6, 9-0) head into the weekend with a six­match winning streak, led by junior outside hitter Christi Girton, who was named Big East player of the week last week, after impressive match­es against Illinois State and Syracuse. 
Girton is the team leader in 
I 
I .,. kills per game and digs per 
I game, while second in hitting 
' I average. On Saturday, the Irish face a
' 
I 
\ Villanova team in search of its ' I first conference win of the 
I 
season.
I I 
The Wildcats (9-18, 0-9)I have not beaten the Irish in
I 
six tries. Villanova is led by middle blocker Breen
I . 
I Eddinger, who averages 4.15 
I· 
I kills per game.I The Georgetown match fig­I ures to be the opposite for the
I 
I Irish. Georgetown (23-3, 8-1)
I is only one loss behind the Irish in the conference stand­ings. This match is important for both sides. If both teams win their first matches this week­end, the Georgetown-Notre Dame contest will determine the Big East tournament's top seed and whether the Irish win the regular season con­fernnce title. Last year, the Hoyas shared the regular season Big East title with Connecticut and made it to the championship match, where they lost to Notre Dame. The Irish hold a · perfect 7-0 mark against Georgetown, including two victories last year. That record will be on the line Sunday afternoon, as will the 

Hoyas current nine-match winning streak. · 
Yulia Vyturina and Kiran Gill, players who led Georgetown a year ago, also lead them this year. Vyturina, named the preseason Big East Player of the Year, is first on the team in kills per game with a 4.91 average. Gill was also a first team all-Big East selection in 1998. 
"We are going into this weekend expecting to win both matches," said sopho­more Irish outside hitter Kristi Kreher. "We want to play _with enthusiasm. Georgetown is probably the hardest competition for us this year and· we have really worked in practice on shut­ting down their two outside hitters. Our focus has been on defense and our side of the court." 
Kreher will contribute to the Irish defense with her average of 2.34 digs per game. She has also been an offensive force, averaging 3.06 kills per game on a .306 hitting aver­age this year. 
Two more players the Irish depend on reached milestones in their careers last week. Mary Leffers reached the 1,000-career-kill mark against Illinois State, becom­ing the 10th Irish player ever to do so. 
Her co-captain, Denise Boylan, also totaled her 3,000th career assist against Syracuse. The junior settu has 3,005 assists and needs just 28 more to pass former Trish player Taryn Collins for second all-time. 
The Big East tournament begins next Friday · in Pittsburgh, where the top six teams compete for the title. Both Notre Dame and Georgetown will have .first­rountl byes as the top two teams in the conference. 
The winner of the champi­
onship receives an automatic 
bid to the NCAA tournament. 
The 19qg Division I 
women's volleyball selection 
show will take place on 
Sunday, Nov. 28. 
History 
continued from page 32 
to Adrian Jarrell that went for 32 yards and knotted the game at seven. 
"The reverse is something we thought could go," Holtz said. "The way th.ey pursue. That was a big touchdown for us." 
That touchdown seemed to ignite the entire Irish team. The offense marched the ball down the 
The Seminoles, however, came roaring back after the field goal. 
Warrick Dunn caught a 6­yard touchdown pass from Ward to cut thp, deficit to 10 with 4:45 left in the third quarter. 
Scott Bentley hit a 24-yard field goal pull the Seminoles within seven in the fourth quarter. 
Burris answered the field goal with an 11-yartl touch­down run and push the .Irish lead back to 14, 31-17. 
After a 
field on its 20-yard next posses­"I've got no excuses. touchdown 
pass to Kez
sion before NotrP Dame won the 
Becton McCorvey,
game. They deserved to
scored on a t h e 
26-yard run win. They did the things Seminole defense
with 10:42 to us I was afraid they
left in the stuffed the
would do to us."
second quar­I r i s h ter. offense and 
The Irish Bobby Bowden got the ball took a 14-7 back for its
Seminole head coach 
lead and offense never trailed with 51 again. seconds left 
After being in the picked apart by Ward on the game, first drive, tho Irish secondary Ward liner! up his offense 
enacted revenge on the trailing by seven points at his Seminoles third possession. own 37-yard line. Covington picked off a Ward The eventual Heisman tro­pass and the Irish took over phy winner calmly led his near midfield. team down the field until the 
Seminoles stood at the Irish 14-yard line with 10 seconds left. 
Ward's first try for the end zone was batted down by defensive end Travis Knight. With just thrno seconds left, Notre Dame called a time out to set its defense for the linal play of the game. 
With the No. 1 ranking on the line, Ward took the ball from cent.er and rolled out of the pocket under pressure from the defensive lino. 
Ward spotted Kevin Knox in the end zcrne, but his pass never reached the receiver. Wooden knocked the ball to the earth, and Florida State tumbled from the top of tlw poll. 
"When ho scrambled to my side, l said ov0-r and over '.lust. stay home,"' Wooden said after the game. "We knew ii' overyhody stayed in tlrnir zo!lo and did their job, it would be fine." 
Every thing was fine for Irish fans that day. For the first time since 1990, Notre Dame was at the top of' the polls and talk of a national championship was unavoid­able. 
No onfl imagined the "# l" sign illuminated at the top of Grace Hall would go dark less than a week later. 
The interception was the first thrown by Ward in 159 attempts. 
Someone's Pumped
The Irish took advantage of the turnover with a six-yard 
for her 21st Birthday!! 
run by senior safety/goal line running back Jeff Burris. Burris' touchdown pushed the Irish lead to 14. The score was 21-7 at halftime. 
The Irish continued their dominance at the start of the third quarter as Kevin Pendergast kicked a 4 7-yard field goal to give the Irish their biggest lead of the game at 24-7. 

Happy Birthday Heather!!! 
eastl~'Poiot 
Apartments 
Clet•eland aruf Ironwood Ro_ads/18011 Cleveland Road/ South Be'tld, lrufiana 46637/ ( 219) 272-8110 
New Castle Point Seleet Units ,~vailable for Next Semester 
*Within minutes of campus* 
• 
Renovated, spacious one and two bedroom apartments, some with lofts 

• 
Includes membership in the new 


Castle Point Racquet Club and Fitness Center 

Friday, November 12, 1999 The Ob.server . SPORTS page 29 
CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish goal of top NCAA spot rests on district meet 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN A.,si•tanr Spores Fdiror 
Ev1iryl11ing the Irish cross 1:m1ntry squads havo hcr.n work­ing toward this season -a hHth in tlrn NCt\/\ champi­onship nrn1it Nov. 13 -comes down lo how well thny nm this wrn)kmul i11 tlw district uwnt. 
'1'l11• top two tn:11ns in cad1 dis­
trict. n•ccivt~ aulomutic 1'ipots ul 
nationals. whiln snvnral at-large 
1nams will b1• sPl1!cl.nd to rounr 
out llw linld, bast'd on llmir pm• 
l'ormann\ ~aturdav ar d 
throughout the season. 
The men should have no rea­son to worry about being left out of nationals, as they arr ranked nighth in the nation. 
"Our goal, honestly, is to be in the top three,'' said Irish men's head coach Joe Piane. "If you're tirst or you're third, the reward is exactly the same -going to Lim NCAJ\s." 
Notre Dame's mrm's squad has lrnat,111 some oJ' the top teams in tho nation this vear. Tho Irish capturnd the Big· East Championship, took sixth in the Prn-Nation:t.1 m11et and won 

219-674-GAME 
• 
Largest outdoor field in area, 23 + wooded acres. 

• 
Multiple fields .... can you defend the castle? 

• 
Dorms, frats, sororities, athletic teams, clubs, etc. 

• 
Group discounts available. 

• 
We provide aH rental equipment needed! 


Open play walk on hours (open until Dec. 12): 10-5 Saturday or 1-5 Sunday (other hours upon request) 
Directions from campus. Douglas east to Main. Main south to 12th.street 12th street east about 5 miles (tums into Harrison), field is on the north side ofroad in Osceola. 
SAVE $5 WITH COPY OF THIS AD (1 per person) 
their own Adidas/Notre Dame Invitational,. 
However, two teams in Notre Dame's district arc ranked ahead of the Irish. Wisconsin is sixth in the country, while Michigan is seventh. 
"Basically, our main goal is just to qualify for nationals and however we can do that Is just thc1 main objective," said sopho­more Luke Watson. 
Junior Byan Shay has paced the Irish all season long; his role should be no different this weekend. 
"I-Jc can certainly be in the top live." Piane said. "Ile could be even higher than that." 
"What we don't need is for one guy to win it," added Pianc. "We need four to l'ivc guys to run well.'' 
The added distance may help the Irish in competition. Both districts and nationals are run on a 10,000-meter course, while t!w regular season races were 8,000-mcters. 
"We've trained all year long !'or the 10,000," Piane said. 
In the Pre-National meet, Shay finished just six seconds behind the victor and was clos­ing on the leader at the end. Shay thought he might have won the race with er little more distancn. 
Watson frnished third at the Big East Championships and has been a consistent second runner for Notm Dame. 
"I just want to be top five to top 10," Watson said. "Obviously our performance at the Big East was pretty strong. We're confi­dent; we're ready liir districts." 
Fellow sophomore Marc Striowski has also performed well throughout the season. 
Senior Hyan Maxwell brings expr.rience to the [fold, as do his classmates John Dudley, Sean McManus and Mike Criewe. 
A Futon Built Just the Way You Want It! 
500+ futon cover fabrics 20+ futon frame styles~ 8 grades of futon mattresses 
,-/'u/011.1· Fits Any Space and Every Budget! 
COVER ME with a NEW FUTON COVER! Prices start at just $29! 
FUTON FACTORY 
SOFA BY DAY BED BY NIGHT 

S632 Grape Road, Mishawaka 219-273-2660 

JOHN DAILYfThe Observer Ryan Shay looks to lead the Irish in the district meet this weekend and secure an NCAA championship meet berth. 
While the mr,n's squad is all 
but assured of running in the 
NCAA Championships, the 
women must finish in the top 
two at districts to earn the right 
to continue their season at the 
national level. 
"Our goal is to finish in the top 
two in order to get an automatic 
bid to the NCAAs," women's 
head coach Tim Connelly said. 
The Irish will have their hands 
l'ull with the competition. 
Wisconsin is one of the best 
teams in the nation. Other 
teams which pose a threat 
incltide Michigan, Michigan 
State, Butler, Akron and 
Marquette. 
"I think if you look at the 
teams in the race, Wisconsin is 
clearly the top team in the 
race," Connelly said, "And then 
there arc three or four teams 
that can compete for the next 
spot." 
"I think realistically the teams 
we have to worry about are 
Michigan and Michigan State,'' 
added Connelly. "If we run as 
well as we did at the Big East, 
we have a good shot at finishing ·second." Senior Allison Klemmer is in peak form and has picked up 
some of the slack on thn team since All-American JoJ\nna Dneter went out with an injury. Klemmer placed fourth at the Big East Championships, a career best. If slrn places among the top four individuals in the region, she will receive an auto­matic spot in the national meet. 
"She's been an All-American twice on the track," Connelly said, "And she's running bettnr than ever." 
Hookie Jennifer llanclley has shinnd for the Irish this season, but may be missing from tlrn lineup Satµrday due bncausn of injury. 
"It's up in the air a Iii.tin bit because of Jnnnif'cr," Connnlly said about Urn lineup. 
Seniors Patty Hice and Erin Luby will join Klemmer in the race for an NCM berth, as will junior Chrissy Kunnster. The other spots have ynt to bn detnr­mined, but among the possible contenders am juniors Valerin Siqueria, Bridge O'Brien and Erin Olson, and senior Nicole LaSnlle. 
Saturday's race may be the end of the line for the 1999 Irish, or just a pit stop on the way to a national title. 
1999-2000 Season 
Notre Dame Film, Television, 
and Theatre Presents 
lfhe Water ~.nqine 
b~ 

::,:_?:-·.::. 
Il a.uid Mamet 
:,: 
'·.·.·>·",', 
;\::{jj;:~. 
Dtr~~~~~ by Elaille>Bdrtifield /}( Wednesday, NovembJ(:i7?bo p.m. 
~ Thursday, Novemprf 18
:.~.:.:,1.· •·· ·.·.•.·
·,·•,,'.•.·•.•.·.·:.'·.!:.,t.:,:,'..*,;·,.,:-··.,!·:.~',.:,•... ...:·:1:".:':,·•··.•:••.••.. ..··:.··.•·.·__ ..::.::. 
;;:,::.•" Friday, Novembe,iJi 
...:::;;; ::::Wf C ~~~u;~;YN!~~;~1~~ }~~~~ ~::: t· · Playing.ii{W~hfngton Hall 
ReservJL~ats $9·· Seniors $$ <·•·•·.. All $tij~~ri:t($f 
Tickets are avai,hl~ia{LaFortnn; ~t~~~~t~~~;;r ~cket Office. 
Mastercard and Visit: cirders call 631-8128 
Visit our website,:: httpf\ \ www.nd.edu\-<:othweb 
page 30 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November 12, 1999 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Notre Dame rested after bye, ready to take on Dayton 
... 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Associa,e Sporn Editor 
Eli>ven years ago, Dayton beat Notre Dame, 6-0, in the worst defeat in Irish history, scoring more goals than any other Notre Dame opponent -ever. 
This Sundav when the Flyers travt>l to Alumni field to take on the fifth-seeded Irish women's soccer team, they will find 1999's edition of the Irish vastly different than '88's team. 
In 1988, Notre Dame was in its ment of getting up and get­ting around is different." 
The Irish enter the NCAA Championships in good physi­cal shape with no injuries to starters or major players. Ooly backup goalkeeper Sani Post, who has a broken hand, wHl not be able to play against the Flyers. 
"l think we are in pretty good shape." Waldrum said. "I think this time of the sea­son you get a few bumps and bruises here and there and we are trying to attend to those situations, but overall ( 
think we arc 
OK."· 
first season of "For us here. I think Last week­
soccer competi­end, the Irish
the fan support is 
tion and did not shut down the 
boast a single great -that's an nation's leacl­all-conforence extra player for you." ing scorer. player or any­Seton Hall's one with experi­Kellv Smith, ence on any Randy Waldrum and ·its chief national teams. Irish head coach Big East rival, 
1999's Irish, with seven All-Big East players and a wealth of international experience. is so different that the team doesn't (Wfln know about the trouncing they experienced at the hands of the Flyers in 1988. 
The home-field advantage and an extra week of practice will give the Irish a step up on the Flyers. 
Dayton advanced to the second round with a 3-2 vic­tory over Evansville Wednesday night while Notre Dame had a week off thanks to a first round bye. 
Both of these factors help the Irish, according to head coach Randy Waldrum. 
"I think it's a huge advan­tage to have that week off," Waldrum said. "You can take a day or two to get away from it for a while. Because r think you are getting to the point in the season where kids are getting tired of each other and they need a little time off." 
The Irish took Monday and Tuesday off before returning to practice on Wednesday. The chance to play at home and maintain a normal prac­tice routine will also play a factor this weekend. 
·"For us here, I think the fan support is great -that"s an extra player for you," Waldrum said. "I think play­ing at home gives you an advantage because you sleep in your own bed and the kids are used to the week, where on the road you are sleeping in a hotel bed and your regi-
UConn, en 
route to win­ning its fifth· Big East Championship. While Dayton is neither a big rival nor pos­sesses a top µlayer, Waltlrum does not believe his team will have any trouble getting pre­pared for the Flyers. 
"Looking back at the past, this team has not had any problem for preparing for each round," Waldrum said. "I think it is our job as coach­es to make sure they are ready to play as well as they are capable." 
The Flyers are lead offen­sively by Missy Gregg, who has tallied 23 goals this sea­son. 
She scored two goals in the team's win over the Purple Aces in the first round and picked up an assist for the Flyers on Wednesday. 
The Irish are led by a tal­ented group of seniors, offen­sively and defensively. Senior Jenny Streiffer leads the Irish in scoring as she closes in on becoming the second player in history to score 70 goals and 70 assists in a career. 
Currently, she has 68 goals and 71 assists for 207 career points -an Irish record. 
All-Big East defenders Kara Brown and Jen Grubb com­bine with goalkeeper LaKeysia Beene to lead a defense that has held oppo­nents to less than one goal per game. 
The Irish begin their jour­ney toward San Jose, Calif., and the Final Four at 1 p.m., Sunday, on Alumni Field. 
f acult Th" Uninrailg oj Kolr" tlam" '!}"porlm"nl of 1'\u1ie pr""""t• 
Chambrir Mu8>ic 
. Goncirt 
Tie~ 
· 
~litud~la 
'6 i,:niora 
program ineludu
~tlf)~C 
pie.no trio11 
i10 6'\'I 
by tiar,Jdn, Me.rtin 
a~ollabl~ ol lh~ 
and~vorak 
ba!'ortan~ Box Ofr,ei or chorg;o by phoni ~19) 651 ·8128. 
/lloria /il!.bli'in, plonc; C,,ro\yn ?tumm,zr. vie m; ii r~ an,n• s. el!llo 
2 pm, ~unday, Novimb~r 14, 1999 
'f1nnenberg '(luditorium, &>niti Mu5~wm of '(Irt 
for more lnfonnot,on, pl~ueoll (219) 63HS201, 1Ef1l••I mu•i<@nd."'1u.ar vi1il our wi!l> ••I~•' """"·nd.1ZOul"'lllu1ie. 

BE SMART! 
(Excellence =Gene Glick Management Company) 

Mishawaka, IN 46545 @ 

EUUAI. HOUSING 
OPPORTUNITY 
friday, November 12, 1999 The Observer . TODAY page 31 ... 
======--=--==============~===============---==-=-=========================----=-=-==========~-=-==--=---=-~,=-=~=============­
TOM KEELEY
FOURTH AND INCHES 
u'RE­ A MP."-'  or­ \../1:.1..1.. , wm~  ~oROl>,N  
EW  IAJO~O!:., A(E  A~O !OE AR.out-JO  
T~E:.Rf=-'REALl-Y l!.N'i  
MUG\-\  foe.  Me  "TO !,IW  
)  
Fox TROT  

www,loxtrol.com 
'WA'tNE/ f.l.lP N' !.\..IOE. 
IN ,~ HALLWA'/­'iov1VE: 60, -ro lit',' Ii/ 
C 1999 81!1 Amend/01sl by Universal Press Synd1cJle 
.S,~W6E. ""I Wo VL-0 ,11-1tJ1:. -r1+1>,T Jo~oM.i' ESE:tJC.e ALONE wou u1R1. Qu1,e: 
BILL AMEND 
MOM ? JUST HOW FRESH IS THIS LETTUCE!'? 
I 
1Hl 
'"'411 
JEFF BEAM
A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 

beem.1@nd.edu 

.. 
. I 
EUGENIA LAST
CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 29 Secret society's 49 Kirshner of 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS overspend, You ue already over 
secret "Mad City" 
DAY: Booker T Jones, Nadia budget for the iest1ve season. 000 Comaneci, Tonya Harding, Bnan VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't 
1 Good thing to 
find a lot of 30 Post delivery: 50 Brown or Rice 
Hyland, Neil Young count vour chickens before they
Abbr,
12 English speaker 51 Split land 
Happy Birthday: Stop living in hatch, You will be offered tempting
in Africa 33 Spicy cuisine 52 Glorifies 
the past and move into the fast lane, but dubious monev schemes, Don't There is no hme to waste if you want take chances just because someone
14 Perfect plot 35 Batting practice 57 Marvelous 
to reach your goals. Timing will be vou like is i1wolved. 00000
16 Where to find a aid person? 
crucial this year, so don't ponder , LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Look to 
date 
36 Some relations 58 Nero Wolfe, by 
over what could have been, It's close friends or relatives to give you 17 Match stopper birth important to do your thing and the support you need, Your home
38 Familiar symbol 
ignore any negative criticism that environment and emotional r<'lallon­
18 Playwright 
40 Press comes your w,,y, You must believe in ships appear to be deceptive, causing Burrows DOWN yourself and your abilities. Your difficulties for VOLL 0041 Kind of numbers: 8, 13, 18, 20, 34, 39 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov, 21): Be
19 A chorus line 1 Kind of ware
damages ARIES (March 21-April 19): carel\11 not to lead someone on and

20 They may crash 2 Spheres 
Expect 16 have problems with your don't be evasive in your commu11ica­and break m,,te if you've been too busy doing tions, You're likely to have your 
42 Poet who wrote 
of "Sultan after 3 They're 
23 Have an edge your own thing, Financial frustra­words twisted if you aren't careful,
Sultan with his historically 
tions wilt result if vou haven't bud­0000 .·
against Pomp" significant 
geted suitably, You may be wise to SAGITTARIUS (Nov, 22-Dec. 
24 One with a list 4 Be faulty? 
46 Redondilla get a part-time job, 00 21): Tlw work you do at fund-raising 25 In the thick of rhyme scheme 5 Crash site? TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You events "'ill m,,ke rou popular. Don't may want to get son,~ rL·st. This is a let 11 go k> 1·our lwad, but do use the
26 Migrating 47 Overdue 6 It may be taken 
busv time oi the vear. and you' re connections you make in order to get salmon 48 Hoops in in an inn ovei--\,·Llrked, o,·ers.tr12ssl..'d and com­alwad, 000 pletely ready for a break. 00000 CAPRICORN <Dec. 22-J,rn, 19):
27 Concern of the Hall-of-Farner 7 Took for a time GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't Mmor accidents will occur 1f you are
force? Thurmond 8 Flakes 
go cra;,;v when it comes lo entertain­preoccupied. no not take uirneces­
9 Lowdown 
ment, or you"ll be in the poorhouse sary chances when using equipment 
after all is said and done, Get or dnving You might say something 11woll'cd in worthwhile endeavors \'()ti'II regret l,lter 000 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 Preceder of 
some surnames 
th.11 demand vour time. 1101 vour AQUARIUS (Jan, 20-Feb. 18):11 Social butterfly m,>nev 000 , · You should be looking at tral'el
29 Dog-eared 43 Dark brown fur 51 "From Here to
12 Synfuel source 'CANCER (June 21-July 22): ,iptio1K If vou c,111 get away, do so. 30 Put down 44 Go on Eternity" actress Someone vou lil'e with will be You need " br1:ak in order to rejuve~13 Astronomers' stakes? impossible 'to g,•t along with. Don't 11<1te and so,t out your thoughts
(rampage) 53 Boffa letters 
subjects force )'our opinions on him or her if about ,·our future goals, A change
31 Its principal ore
14 Slimeball 45 Not fantastic 54 Draft, say you wish to ,woid discord and will spark some idi,as, 000
is columbite 
estrange111enL Go out with friends ii PISCES (Feb, 19-March 20): You
15 Rub the wrong 47 Dye. 
way 32 Word-perfect? 55 Farm deliverer it will help the s,tuat,on, 000 can help others by taking care of LEO (July 23-Aug, 22): Creative their personal papers and offering
34 it may lead to 50 Novelist Didion 56 Track
20 Llanelli locale endeavors or doing things with adl'ice regarding money-making
an outlet 
children "·ill relax VOLL Gd to­investments, Your kindness will he
21 Trading letters 
37 Pro at gether with friends, Liut try not to appreciated and r,•warded. 0000
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle
22 Drop-in completing 
are available by touch-tone phone: 
Birthday B,1by: You are intuitive, intellectual and 1ndep,mdenL You will
23 Figure: Abbr. schedules 
1-900-420-5656 (95~ per minute). look, see and do right from day one. Your inquisitil'e mind will lead you mto 26 Kind of curve 39 Snowboard's Annual subscriptions are available for the all sorts of interesting adventures throughout your life. You will be confident, cousin canng and well•liked, ' 
28 City on the best of Sunday crosswords from the IP.Si 50 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroddvice,com,
Skunk 41 33-Across dish . years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
eugenialasLcom, astrom.1te.com,) 
f: l qgg Uni\·i.•l'$.ill l'rL<>ss S\'ndir,lh! 
Visit The Observer on the web at http.1/observer.nd.edu/ 


LooK at these great upcoming events! 
The General's Daughter SLF Coffeehouse Cowboy Mouth 
Friday and Saturday, Tuesday, November 16 Wednesday, November 17 November 12-13 8pm-10pm Lafortune 8pm at Stepan Center 8pm and 10:30pm $10 for students Cushing Auditorium &12 for general admission $2 admission tickets at Lafortune Info Desi< 
note: these spine-saving activities~ have been brought to you by u · ......" _... 
www.nd.1NUv-aw.i 
-r~-----­[ 
I . 
I 
~ 
I 
I I 
I 
PORTS
I 
I I 
I page 32 
I 

I 
I 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

--......-----­
Set for Success 
The Trish, who have already secured a spot in the Big East tournament, round out their regular season against Villanova and Georgetown this weekend. 
page 20 
Friday, November 12, 1999 
Marathon races past Notre Dame in I 05-81 victory 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Assistant Sports Editor 
.. 
Notre Dame turned the ball ovnr 17 times in the first half and Marathon's Darnell Hoskins lit up the scoreboard all night long as Notre Dame lost its second exhibi­tion game 105-81 despite an e-arly 12-point lead. · 
"It wasn't, obviously, a grnat effort, and I think it was my fault because I set the tone," said first­vcar Irish head coach Matt Doherty. "I talked more about Ohio State than Marathon Oil. I didn't preparn our guys mentally to play a game tonight." 
The Irish discovered they need­ed more than sophomore Troy Murphy to win as Marathon proved a much tougher opponent than the International Select All­Stars, whom the Irish defeated 94­79. 
Notre Dame leapt to an early lead behind Murphy, who scored nine of the first eleven points for Notre Dame. Sophomore forward David Graves also played a role as the Irish went up 24-12 with 12 minutes, 2 seconds to play in the first half. 
However, it all went downhill from there for the Irish. Within 10 minutes, Marathon had turned the game around to claim a 13-point advantage which it never relin­quished. 
"I think we came into the game lackadaisical," Murphy said. "Our preparation wasn't the same as the first game. The 10-point lead was the worst thing that could have happened to us." 
Once Marathon began to take control of' the garne,·the Irish never recovered. 
"They started hitting shots and it's hard to regain momentum," Doherty said. "It's hard to Lurn the switch on and o!T." 
There was no room for the Irish to be complacent as Marathon shot 15 for 30 from behind the arc and only gave ihe ball up seven times in the contest. 
Even more significant was the play of Hoskins, who played the entire game, tallying 39 points and adding 13 assists for Marathon. 
Hoskins' 39 points nearly dashed the single-game record in the JACC by a Notre Dame oppo­m~nt. The record of 40 points was set in 1978 by Loews Moore of West Virginia. 
"It's good preparation for us before Ohio State because Hoskins is a quick guard," Doherty said. 
Hoskins martialed the Marathon offense, -doing everything neces­sary to secure the victory over Notre Dame. He shot 15 of 27 from the field, including seven of eight from downtown, only improving Marathon's already­potent shooting. 
"I give them credit," said senior guard Jimmy Dillon of the Irish. "They shot the lights out. There was nothing much we could do. We've got to search ourselves." 
Doherty was surprised by Marathon's ability to hit nothing but net. 
"I don't think you can anticipate many teams shooting like that, but they did," Doherty said. "It is an attention-getter. You hope you don't need those to motivate the guys." 
Murphy, a pre-season First­Team All-Big East selection, did his part for the Irish, putting up 28 points. Ile dominated the boards for Notre Dame, bringing down 14 of the team's 31 · rebounds. Ilowever, Murphy didn't score during the Irish drought in the first half, going without a bucht during the final 12:02. 
"One of our goals coming into the game was to have !Ass than 15 turnovers," Murphy said, "And I think we had more than 15 in the first half." 
The Irish came out more moti­vat~d in the final few minutes·of the second half, but it was too late to overcome a 28-point deficit. 
"Tt's just pride," said Oillon. "It would've been real easy to lay down then." 
Freshman guard Matt Carroll, who contributed 12 points for the Irish, was disappointed with the Irish response to Marathon's play. 
"I think we've just got to take care of the ball and play strong with it," Carroll said. "I guess it just goes to show when you face diversity, you've got to come up and face it and we didn't do that tonight. It's lucky it was tonight and not next Tuesday." 
Four players were ·in double dig­its for both teams, as sophomores David Graves and Ilarold Swanagan joined Murphy and Carroll with 16 and 11 points, respectively, for the Irish. Besides Hoskins with double digits for Marathon, David Harrison and Mark Davis put up 19 points, and William Trawick added 13. 
The Irish will play their first reg­ular-season game of the season Tuesday, taking on No. 6 Ohio State in the first round of the pre­season NIT. 

"51 
·~~.·'·.··.·...4·•.•.····.··...···•··. ·.·
.... -... -..· 
a ·:'·,-·~~"· 
JOE TURNER!The Observer Forward Harold Swanagan gets a look at the basket in Notre Dame's second exhibition loss of the season. 
FOOTBALL HISTORY 
Irish heat up November of '93 with key defensive stand 
Editor's note: Notre Dame's Florida State's march to the in the stadium, the Seminoles a factor in the game, quarter­won the game. They deserved journey to achieve designation 1993 National Championship ran onto the field wearing Irish back Kevin McDougal's leader­to win; They did the things to us as the 20th century's greatest could be stopped in South Bend. green hats with Florida State ship, running back Lee Beeton's I was afraid they would do to college football team is marked Perhaps only the Notre Dame written on them in gold and a 122 yards rushing and Shawn us." by 10 milestones, one in each players and ESPN college foot­shamrock on the side. Wooden's last second deflection Mainly, the Irish buried the decade since 1900. The ball analyst Beano Cooke could The Irish took of Ward's Seminoles in a 24-7 hole with Observer examines these have foreseen the 31-24 victory this gesture as touchdown nine minutes, 41 seconds moments in a I 0-part series that vaulted Notre Dame to the an insult, accord­"There are two teams pass played remaining in the tllird quarter. that appears on Fridays. top of the polls for the first time ing to safety you don't bet against at a bigger After Florida State jumped 
since 1990. John Covington. factor. out to a 7-0 lead just nine sec­
home in November, the
"There are two teams you "I saw what Seminole onds into the ganrn, the Notre By MIKE CONNOLLY don't bet against at homn in they were doing Russian Army ... and head coach Dame offense answered with a Associate Sporrs Editor November, the Russian Army ... and I got a little Notre Dame." B o b b y scoring drive of its own. 
'­
and Notre Dame," Cooke said in ticked-off," he Bowden The Irish moved the ball to the weeks leading up to the said. could not the Seminole 32-yard line 
Beano Cooke
Hardly anyone outsidA of game. "They came in defend his thanks to runs by McDougal South Bend thought the Irish The Seminoles had spent the here to our stadi­ESPN college football analyst team's loss. and Becton. could do it. week before the game mocking um, shooting Notre Dame Then Irish head coach Lou 
Charlie Ward was too good. Notre Dame tradition and their mouths off'. simply out­lloltz reached into his bag of The Seminole defense was too downplaying the mystique of They shouldn't do that." played Florida State. tricks and pulled out a reverse l'asL The Irish were too slow. Notre Dame Stadium. While the home crowd and ''I've got no excuses," he said There was no way that Before their Friday workout the Irish mystique surely played after the game. "Notre Dame see HISTORY/page 28 
Swimming Cross Country at Pittshurgh, .J vs. Pittsburgh, at NCM District IV, fl Saturday, 2:30 p.m . 
SPORTS • ,. 
Friday, 6 p.m. Saturday, 10:30 a.m. 
ATA Eli Saint Mary's Swimming 
Volleyballvs. Alaska Fairbanks, vs. Albion,
. 
at Villanova, 
~ 
Friday, 7:05 p.m . 
Tuesday, 7:30 p.m. 
Saturday, l p.m.
GLANCE • 

---. .. 
NSIDER 
O
THE 
Friday, November 12, 1999 BSERVER Notre Dame at Pittsburgh 
.. 

TV BROADCASTINSIDE 
game preview..............page 2 
record: 5-4 

record: 4-5 
focus on Pittsburgh ..... ..page:-; 
home: 5-1 home: 3-3
vs. 
rosters....................... .page 4 
away: 0-3 away: 1-2 college games today.... .page 6 

game lime: 3:3op.m., ND lime pregame commentary....page 7 
station: CB5i, channel 22 
-------------,­
page2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 12, 1999 
game hype Irish look for victory in Steel City 

Bob Davie Irish head coach 
"We know what we haue to do. It's just a matter of going out and get the job done.,. 


"We would have liked to have won that Tennessee game but that game is over ... this is the most important 
,. 
game now. Greg Mattison defensive coordinator 

Store Hours: 
Sunday -Thursday 11am-2am 
Friday & Saturday 11 am -3 am 
r-...........
I ,,,,,_ 
...........
I s. 
/ 6.9,.. 
'We are the kind ofteam that has got to play perfect to win." 


Julius Jones 
tailback 
"We know they are going to be excited because there is a lot oftradition involved in playing the last game in Pitt Stadium." 
By BRJAN KESSLER 
Spores Editor 
Notre Dame and Pittsburgh square off in the final game at Pitt Stadium Saturday with the Irish look­ing to end their five-game skid on the road. 
"[We have toJ to go win a football game on the road," head coach Bob Davie said. "It is something we haven't been able to do. We have played five good teams, all five in tough situations, but the bottom line we have lost five straight games on the road." 
The Panthers have lost. four of their last live games and need to win out to be eligible for a bowl. 
And if that is not enough motivation, the Pant.hers arc sure to be fired up for the last game in Pitt game. 
"I know they are going to be energized from it, their players, because you can't help it. They are going to have 300-some players at that game. They are setting up a lot of festivities sur­rounding the game. That helps you a little bit. It is going to be a big game for them," said Davie. 
It will also be a big game for the injury plagued Irish. Notre Dame is coming off a disappointing 38-14 loss at Tennessee. 
"I think [it's important for us]to bounce back after a loss," Davie said. "This foot­ball team, I think, over the last couple of years has proven to be pretty resilient. Tt is a little biggN challenge right now because we have got some injuries, but to be able to bounce back from a loss, that is the great thing about sports, great thing about college foot.ball. You have an opportunity each and every week to go out there and get things recti­fied." 
Davie, however, down­played the long list of injured Irish players. 
"Sometimes we all talk about the negatives a lot more than we talk about the positives," Davie said. "We got a lot of positives right now on this football team, got a lot of good players. The challenge is to go win a football game: get this thing back on track." 
Tailback Julius Jones and f1anker Joey Getherall have emerged as serious offensive threats for the Irish. 
Gctherall leads the team with 28 catches, while Jones is second on the team in all purpose yards. Quarterback Jarious Jackson averages 220 yards passing and near­ly 50 yards rushing per game. 
The Irish defense is led by linebacker Anthony Denman (second on the team with 63 Virginia Tech, 30-17. Last tackles) and a strong defen-week, Pittsburgh was blown sive backfield. 
out by Miami, 33-3. 
Pittsburgh, on the other 
Quarterback David hand, stands at just 4-5 on Priestly leads the Panthers the season, with all five 
offensive attack. coming against some of the He has two talented 
nation's top programs. receivers in Latef Grim and The Panthers fell to Penn 
Antonio Bryant. Grim leads State 20-17 and lost to No. 2 the Big East in receptions 
and receiving yards. Kevan Barlow averages nearly 70 yards rushing per game. Redshirt freshman Ramon Walker leads the Panther defense with 113 tackles. 
Notre Dame holds a 40­16-1 lead in the all-time series between the two teams. 

Domino's Delivery 271-0300 

........, 
I 


/ ( :, I 
, 1..... -,.. a,.9e , 
I Op,-a• I 
I t~ . "'''1'9 I 
I Pires l / 
' '...., -</12199 I ',...., I 
''..J 
____________________,..,.._______.....,____,....,..._,~--­
Friday, November 12, 1999 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
EYE ON THE ENEMY 
Pitt boasts dangerous receiving duo 
By BILL HART 
Associate Sports Editor 
Emotions will be running high whon the Irish take on the Panthers, but it won'L be solely because it will ho the final home game for 19 Pittsburgh seniors. 
The Panthers will play their final ganrn nt Pitt Stadium, homo to the Pittsburgh rootball since 1925. 
With over 400 games played over Urn span of 7:i y<'ars, one can bet that tlH1 !'anthers hope to end the stadium's long history on a high note. 
"I don't know how significant that is for our football team," coach Bob Davie said. "But I know (their play­ers! an' going to onergized from it, when you hav11 players like Ross Bronner and Luther Rradley come back. It's going to be a big game ror them, so it will be a challenge because of' that." 
l'art of that challenge will be stop­ping tho most produrtivc receiving tand<~m in the Big East -junior Later Grim and freshman Antonio Bryant.Grim leads the confenmco and ranks 14th nationally in receiv­ing yards with 98.4 per game. 
/\ clutch player, he turned in two 
fast facts 
ABOUT PITTSBURGH 
of the best performances of his career against Penn State and Virginia Tech. Against the latter, he riddled the Hokie ser,ondary with a career high 12 catches for 188 yards. 
"I thought Latef really stepped up." Pitt coarh Walt Harris told the Pitt ;\Jews after the game. "l was very Virginia Tech. 
"Both of [their receivers] have great speed," Davie said about the . pair. "Both of them run great routs 
and have good hands." 
Like its receiving corps, the Panthers have relied on a quarter­back tandnm of David Priestly and John Turman for close to the entire 
proud of what h•i "Both of[their recievers] season. Roth sig­did." nal-callers have
have great speed. Both of
While Grim has played in all nine been known to take them run great. routes." Pitt games this his game to a high­season, with er level when the Turman starting
Bob Davie
situation calls for it, five of the past
Irish head coach
Bryant has been one or the biggest surprises for the Panthnrs this season. Going into this weekend's game, he ranks fourth in the Big East and 34th nationally with 83.2 receiving yards per game. 
Against Virginia Tech earlier this year, his 215 receiving yards set a Pittsburgh freshman record and was the hest pnrformance hy any Big East receiver this season. 
Before the Panthers were routed 33-3 by Miami, the pair each recorded 100-yard receiving efforts in three straight games, against Boston College, Rutgers and 
. 
location: Pittsburgh, Penn. . Enrollment: 31,776 

. 
Colors: blue and gold 

. 
Nickname: Panthers 

. 
Conference: Big East 

. 
Fight song: "Hail to Pitt" 

. 
Mascot: the panther 


six games. 
For as little 
playing time they got overall, each has compiled over 900 passing yards, with Priestly reaching the 1,000 yard plateau two weeks ago. 
Fortunately for the Trish, however, the two players' offensive styles vary little. 
"The quarterbacks are both pretty similar players," Davie said. "One of them started early, while the second one started late. But they are very similar guys, both drop-back style quarterbacks and very accurate." 
. 
Saturday's game will be the last game ever played in Pitt Stadium. The Irish enjoy a 21-8 record against the Panthers in Pitt Stadium. 

. 
The last time Notre Dame returned a kick for a touchdown was against Pittsburgh in 


1997. 


ft 

ft 

~ft. 
1•1 II 11~-.~ II ,•,--..--.. ~~ 
CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS: ft 

• $525-$650/ month ft 
• Large Apartments ft 
• Swimming pool, tennis ~ 
~ 
and basketball courts ft 
11
• On-Site management 
CALL TODAY! ft 272-1441 ft 
page 3 
PITTSBURGH REVIEW 
'Canes blow away Panthers 
Associated Press 
Second-ranked Penn State could not do it. 
Third-ranked Virginia Tech couldn't do it. No. 22 
Miami did it, and very easily. 
Kenny Kelly ran for a touchdown and threw for one and the Hurricanes pulled away with a 23­point fourth quarter in a 33-3 victory Saturday over Pittsburgh. 
The Hurricanes (5-3, 3-0 Big East) ralli(id from deficits of 28 points and 13 points to win the previ­ous two weeks, but another comeback wasn't needed after Kelly's 1-yard sneak put them ahead 10-3 in the second quarter. 
"We were tired of coming into gamns and start­ing slowly," said middle linebacker Nate Webster, who made two interceptions. "We came in and started fast. We didn't come out soft." 
Pittsburgh (4-5, 2-4) played Penn State and Virginia Tech tough in losses, with David Priestley throwing for 407 yards last week against the Hokies. But Pitt's offense shut down aftnr Priestley injured his right shoulder while throwing an inter­ception in the second quarter. lie didn't return. 
"That really threw us off and really broke us from our rhythm," running back Nick Goings said of an offense that has rushod for 60 yards in its last two games. 
"Any time you lose a player who is producing like David Priestley is," Pitt coach Walt Harris said. "You're going to take a few steps back as a team." 
Each of Pitt's three quarterbacks throw an inter­ception, and Antonio Bryant, who had 216 yards receiving against Virginia Tech, was held to two catches for 20 yards. Latef Grim, the Big East receiving leader, had seven receptions for 85 yards and was the Panthers' only productive offensive player. 
"The defensive backs came in with the purpose of stopping those receivers," Miami cornerback Markese Fitzgerald said. "We made a pact to stop those receivers and we did. We knew would win if WO did." 
Pitt never made anything happen as John Turman replaced Priestley· to go 1 0-of-22 for 101 yards and an interception. It was a bad day all around for the Turman family, his mother required medical treatment arter being hit by a golf cart that shuttles Pitt personnel around the stadium. 
Andy Crosland also kicked field goals or 28 yards on Miami's first possession, one kept alive by Kelly's 14-yard throw to Moss on third-and-9, and 26 yards in the fourth quarter. Kelly was 13-of-33 for 236 yards and a touchdown and was helped by a running game that generated 190 yards. 
"We came in here with the idea to be patient and see what worked," coach Butch Davis said. "Our defense continued to create turnovers, and defense is what makes things happen on this team." 
James Jackson had 69 yards on 16 carries despite playing with a sore ankle and freshman Clinton Portis carried 20 times for 131 yards, including a 37-yard touchdown. 
"I thought the key to our passing game was the running game," Kelly said. "Once we got it started, we were able to have a passing game." 
Portis ran for 104 yards last week as Miami scored 28 second-half points to rally past West Virginia 28-20. The week before, Miami staged the biggest comeback in Big East history, recover­ing from a 28-point deficit to beat Boston College 31-28. 
The Hurricanes played without freshman run­ning back Jarrett Payton, who was in Chicago for the memorial service for his father, NFL career rushing leader Walter Payton, who died last week. 
"We definitely missed Jarrett Payton, both as a player and a friend," Davis said. "We missed him and we dedicated this game to him." 
Kelly keyed the Hurricanes' 11rst touchdown drive, hitting Daniel Franks on a 4:~-yard comple­tion, then linding Santana Moss for 19 yards on fourth-and-12 alter Davis disdained the lield goal. Kelly scorf>.d four plays later to finish the 73-yard drive. 
"I really thought we came hem with a senso of urgency and consistency," Davis said. "You always come in here expecting a barf' knuckles fist fight." 
The Hurricanes didn't get one in a game that ultimately became a tuneup l'or nf1xt woe.k's game at Virginia Tech. 
Davis also chose not to kick a {kid goal again on fourLh-and-1 from the Pitt 9 narly in tlw fourth quartnr and Knlly got thn yard. On thn next play. Kelly hit Franks in Uw right roar corner of tlw nncl zone for a 17<~ lead that was far too much for Pitt's st.allPd oll'i,nsP to make up. 
page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 12, 1999 
1999 FIGHTING IRISH IN POSITION: running backs 1999 VOLUNTEERS 
Schedule s(Thedule 
Aug•. 28 KANSAS W48·13 S¢pt. 4· BOWLING GREEN W30-10 Sept ,t: at Michigan >, [26'-22 · ·· ~e11t 11 atPenn State l 20-17 Sept.11 tit Purdue .t zar2a > .• s111,1t Z5 KENT W30s23 Sept. 18 MICHIGAN· STATE ··. L23-13 O~t. 2 TEMPLE W55·24 Ott.2 OKLAHOMA ·w wan•·, ··.•ott 9 SYRACUSE L24·17 0ct9< ARIZONA S1Al~ W43,17; O~t, 23 ~t.aoston College l20·16 Oct.16 USC cW25·24 Ot:LJO . .at Rutgers W38·15 Ott.3tJ ·NAvv wzs;.24 Nov.6 VIRGINIA TECH . l 30·1.7 NOV.•i ,Nov. 13 •MIAMI l.33-3
at T~nqps1m e;t,.·•·.···3.·.·.·.•.t·I14·•.·..·•.·. f.;, .• 
·.••ii1,.'.''

Nov.• 13 fi at Pl~bur11h 
. ~ "Ntiv,20 NOTRE DAME 
lfov.20 BOSTON COlUGE if~. :,, ,,;:,~ ···'; No,.i,27· at West Virginia Nov.27 \r~ at Stilnfllnl ,.,,. i;l~ :;;:-$;·
• 
third season al third season at Notre Dame Pittsburgh 
career record: career record: 
21-13 23-44 
at Notre Dame: at Pittsburgh: 
12-20
21-13 
against against Notre Pittsburgh: 1 -o Dame: 0-1 
Roster Roster 
No. Name Pos. Ht. Wl YR Irish depth chart. Jones, however, is No. Name Pos. Ht. Wt. YR 
1 Deke Cooper FS 6-2 220 SR Observer Staff Report 1 D.J. Dinkins DB 6-4 235 SR
not completely healthy. He wore a
2 Carlos Pierre-Antoine [LB 6-3 245 SO 2 Kody Miller LB 6-1 215 SR 3 Arna, Baltle QB 6-1 215 50 knee brace in practice this week 3 Taron Gray DB 5-10 185 FR 4 Jamaar Tavlor WR 6-0 200 FR After having to decide between 4 Chris Curd WR 6·3 195 n,
after spraining his knee against
5 A'Jani San'ders FS 5-10 SR 5 Kenny Ketchen WR 6-1 200
197 four quality tailbacks all season, SR 
6 David Givens SE 6-1 217 so Tennessee. 5 Rick Hathaway DB 5-10 180 FR 
7 Jarious Jackson QB 6-1 228 SR head coach Bob Davie is down to just Fisher and Jones should take 6 Julius Dixon WR 5-10 170 SR B Anthony Brannan OLB 5-10 215 SR two options heading into Pittsburgh. 7 Shawn Robinson WR 6-1 170 FR
advantage of their increased number
9 Raki Nelson FL 5-11 180 SR 8 Demetrious Rich DB 5-10 170
With Tony Driver suspended and FR 
9 Dwayne Francis DB 6-0 189 so of carries this week to establish 9 Matt O'Connor QB 6-3 205 SRinjured, 5.9
10 Deveron Harper CB 5-11 187 SR Terrance Howard only themselves as the best two backs on 9 Brian Oleksa DB 165 so 11 Jay Johnson SE 6-0 191 SR freshman Julius Jones and sopho­10 John Tuman QB 6-4 215 JR
the team for the rest of the year and 11 David Priestly 
12 Tonv Fisher RB 6-2 225 SO on the 6·4 200 so
more Tony Fisher remain QB 
13 Nick Setta K/P 6-0 160 FR next season. 12 Rod Ritherford QB 6·3 195 FR 14 James Caputo P 6-1 193 SR 13 James Beabout p 5-11 190 SR 14 Dan Novakov QB 6-3 210 FR 
14 Mark Panko DB 5-10 200 so 15 Clifford Jefferson CB 5-9 182 so 15 Brian Beinecke LB 6-1 210 FR 16 Glenn Earl DB 6-1 185 FR 16 Greg Debolt p 6-0 185 SR 16 John Shingler TE 6-2 252 SR 17 Corey Humphries DB 6-1 190 FR 17 Joey Hildbold P/K 5-11 175 FR 17 Brian Petrillo p 6-0 175 FR 17 Jeremy Juarez FB 5-11 250 JR 18 Jay Junko WR 64 200 FR 18 Joey Getherall FL 5-7 176 JR 19 Amir Purifoy LB 6-2 235 so 19 Jim Sanson K 5-9 187 SR 20 Robb Butler DB 6-0 185 FR 20 Gerome Sapp DB 6-0 210 FR 21 Chiffon Allen DB 5-10 170 SR 21 Javin Hunter FL 6-0 185 SO 22 Karim Thompson LB 6-0 200 SR 22 Julius fom,s•· RB 5-11 •• 185· -· FR 23 Brennan Carroll TE 6-3 240 SR 23 Chris Yura RB/DB 5-11 195 FR 24 Torrie Cox RB 5-9 185 FR 24 Albery Poree DB 5-10 185 FR 24 Jacob Lininger LB 6-3 225 FR 27 Jason Beckstrom DB 5--10 185 FR 25 Ramon Walker DB 5·11 190 FR 28 Donald Dykes SS 5-11 197 SO 26 Seth Hornack DB 5·11 195 SR 28 Mike Grad v FS 5-11 200 SR i6 Scott Virag TE 6-2 235 FR 29 Justin Smith FS 5-11 190 JR 27 Aaron Price DB 6-0 185 FR 30 Rocky Boirnan OLB 6-4 245 so 28 Gary U rschler DB 5-9 195 FR 32 Terrance Howard TB 6-1 193 SO 29 Joe Vaglea FB 5-10 205 JR 33 Courtney Watson RB 6-2 205 FR 30 Brandon Byrd WR 6-2 185 so 34 Ronnie Nicks £LB 6-0 240 SR 31 Hank Poteat DB 6-0 190 SR 35 David Miller K-P 5-11 190 so 32 Lousaka Polite FB 6-0 220 FR 35 Tim O'Neill TB 5-5 163 SO 33 Mike Camilleri RB 5-11 210 SR 36 Tom Lopienski FB 6-1 259 so 34 Brandon Williams RB 6-0 215 so 37 Ron Israel SS 6-0 205 JR 35 Nick Lotz PK 6-2 210 so 39 Anthony Denman [LB 6-2 230 JR 35 Ben Johnson DB 5-9 170 JR 39 Chris Leck SS 5-9 192 SR 36 Brad Nida K 5-10 190 FR 40 Jason Murray FB 6-1 260 JR 37 Nick Goings RB 6-0 215 JR 40 Brendan Farrell £LB 5-9 232 SR 38 Chris Feola FB b-1 230 SR 41 Joe Ferrer OLB 6-2 235 SR 39 Nick Cole LB b-2 230 so 42 Shane Walton CB 5-11 185 SO 40 Mark Moothart FB 6-0 235 so 44 Grant Irons DE 6-5 272 JR 41 Scott McCurley LB 6-0 215 FR 45 Joey Goodspeed FB 6-0 250 SR 42 MarkGurgol FB 6-1 230 JR 46 Andrew Dempsey TE/DE 6-2 252 JR 43 Kevan Barlow RB 6-1 235 JR 47 Mike McNair FB 6-0 242 SO 44 Rickey Mendenhill FB 6-0 230 so 48 Johnathan Hebert SE 5-11 199 SR 45 Julian Graham DL 6-3 260 SR 50 Cedric Hilliard DL 6-3 295 FR 46 John Parker LS 6-1 220 SR 51 Tyreo Harrison ILB 6-2 235 SO 47 Brian Guzek LB 6-2 225 FR 52 JefHaine OL 6-3 310 FR 48 Lewis Moore LB 6-2 245 FR 53 Lamont Bryant DE 6-3 265 SR 49 Colin Bovich· LB 6-2 230 JR 54 B.J. Scott C 6-3 285 SR 50 George Peslis DL 6-0 235 FR 55 Jim Jones 0G 6-3 307 SR 51 Gerald Hayes LB 6-3 230 FR 56 Pat Rvan LB 6-3 220 ,fR 52 Mike Hostetler OL 6-2 240 JR 56 John Crowther LS 6-2 245 SO 53 Ken Kashubura DL 64 235 SR 57 Justin Thomas LB 6-2 230 FR 54 Keith Featsent DL 6-2 260 so 57 Luigi Rao LB 5-10 208 JR 54 Nick Pietracatello OL 6-3 245 FR 58 Brendan O'Connor 0G 6-2 292 JR 55 Ryan Gonsales LB 6-2 240 SR 60 Darrell Campbell DL 64 245 SO 56 Brandon Dewey DL 64 250 SR 61 Mike Zelenka FB 6-0 218 JR 57 Bryan Knight DL 6-2 225 so 62 Casey Robin OT 6-7 311 JR 58 Ryan Smith DL 64 245 FR 63 Brennan Curtin OL 6·8 295 FR 59 John Farrell C 64 280 JR 63 Mike Tribe ILB 5-10 220 JR 60 Jeff McCurley C 6-5 290 JR 64 John Mcrancli C 6-3 300 SR 61 Ethan Weidle OL 6-6 300 SR 65 Sean Milligan OL 6-4 285 fR 62 Matt Mefford OL 6-3 270 FR 66 JW Jordan C 6-1 277 JR 63 Darrell McMurray DL 6-4 290 FR 67 Ryan Gillis OL 6-3 315 FR 64 Chad Recd OL 6-3 275 FR 68 Matt Brennan OT 6-6 305 SR 66 Penny Semaia OL 6·5 320 FR 69 Mike Gandy 0G 6-4 292 SR 68 Timothy Robertson OL 6-5 270 JR 70 Jim Molinaro DL 6-7 240 FR 69 Kurt Johnson OL 6-1 260 FR 71 Neil Ambron OL 6·7 275 FR 70 Joe Manganello OL 64 290 FR 72 Ryan Scarola OL 6-5 303 SO 71 Patrick Simone OL 6-3 280 JR 74 Rob Mowl 0G 6-5 295 SR 72 Khiawatha Downey OL 64 295 FR 7'i Kurt Volle"' OT 6-7 299 lR 73 Mark Browne OL 6-5 285 SR 76 John Teasdale ar o-6 306 JR 75 Matt Morgan OL 6-6 290 FR 77 Brad WHliams DT 6-4 28R SR 76 Ryan Hansen OL 6-7 295 SR 76 Jordan Black ar 6-6 313 SO 77 Bryan Anderson OL 6-5 295 FR 79 Sean Mahan OT 6-4 285 so 78 Mik£>Hdnz 6-1 190
WR JR 80 Gary Godsey TE 6-7 255 FR 79 Paul Sepe DL 6-3 250 JR 83 Patrick Rernolds WR 5-11 184 so 80 Antonio Bryant WR 6-2 195 FR 64 John Owe11S TE b-3 246 FR 81 Dan LaCarte DL 6-4 240 FR 85 AntwnnJones DT 6-2 283 SR 82 Kris Wilson TE 6-3 230 FR 85 Mark Rule WR/QB 6-2 218 SR 83 Latef Grim WR 6-0 185 JR 86 Dan O'Leary TE 6-4 260 SR 84 R.J. English WR 6-3 200 so 87 Jabari Holloway TE 64 260 JR 86 T.c1mar Slade WR 6-4 195 FR 88 Bobbv Brown FL 6-2 193 SR 87 Tim Stein WR 5-8 175 JR 89 Gerald Morgan TE 6-4 261 SO 88 Kirk McMullen TE 6-4 260 SR go Lanc_·e Legree DT 6-1 296 SR 90 Clnude Harriott DL 6--4 225 FR 91 N. VanHook-Drucker DE 6-2 271 SR 91 Nigel Neal DL 6-3 290 JR 94 lutdv Wisne OT r,-i 2711 JR 92 Charles Steffy DL 6-2 280 FR 95 Rya~ Roberts DE 6-2 260 SO 93 Ben Kopp TE 6-4 280 SR 98 Anthony \Veaver DT 6-3 270 so 94 Demond Gibson DL 64 300 SR 98 Eric Glass DI 64 252 SR 95 Mike Bosnic TE 6-7 285 so 99 Jason Ching DE 6-3 267 SR 96 ,Mo Rodgers DI 64 270 JR 
97 Mike White DL 6·3 280 JR 
98 Joe Conlin DL 6-5 270 so 
99 Scott Friedman TE 6-5 280 SR 



, ' 
Friday, November 12, 1999 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 5 
Denman leads 'trill' 'backers 
. Junior inside linebacker ranks second on team in tackles 
By TIM CASEY 

Sports Writer Denman 
Anthony Denman awoke 
position: inside linebacker 
oarly one fall morning during 
year:junior
his f'rPshman yPar in 1997. 
Looking outsid11 his dorm awards: defensive MVP of '99 room window, he noliced Blue-Gold game, Texas all­snow on the ground. Initially, 
state selection as senior in 
Denman thought class was 
high school
cancnlfid and he cou Id get 
notables: has second-most 
some more rest. Tlwn l11• rnalimd he was in tackles for the Irish this South B(md. season with 63, leads team IL was quite the culture 
with three Jumble recoveries 
shock. "The first day I saw some snow on the ground was my 
It didn't take long for
fn~shman year in S<:ptember," 
Denman to make an immediate
l>tmman said. "And I had to go 
impact.
to class. In Texas if it gets 20 
The junior. in his first game
degrees you don't even go to 
at his new position, garnered
school, nven if it's not snowing. 
defensive MVP honors at the
They don't ever cancel school 
Blue-Gold srrimmage in the
hem. I had to get used to that.'' 
spring. In that game Denman
Since that rlav. Denman has 
recorded six tackles and a sack
adjusted quite ~ell to his new 
and returned an interception
life up north. 
34 yards.
Now a junior and the Irish ·s 
Denman said the change
second leading tackler with 63 
wasn't too difficult. 
tackles on the season from his 
"It was kind of easy," he said.
inside linebacker position, 
"Ai outside linebacker you take
Dnnman has become one of the 
on the tight end, but inside I
top defensive players on the 
have to use my quickness to
team. 
avoid blockers and make plays
Dnnman J0111S Tyreo 
all over the field. It hasn't been
llarrison, Honnie Nicks and 
loo hard." 
Hocky Boiman to form one of 
Besides his tackle total,
the more athletic quartet of 
Denman has also recovered
linebackers the Irish have ever 
three fumbles, including a 31­
had. Denman, Nicks and 
yard return for a touchdown
llarrison am all natives or 
against Kansas. The junior has
Tnxas. and Texan roots have 
forced two fumbles as well and
played a major role in their 
added a sack for the 5-4 Irish. 
friendships, both and on and olT 
Denman's play has not gone
the linld. 
unnoticed.
In l'act. Nicks hosted Denman 
"Since I have been here
on his of'ficial visit as a high 
119941 1would say he is proba­
school sunior while Denman 
bly the most explosive player
served as Harrison's host in 
we have had at that inside line­
1998. 
backer position," Davie said.
The linebackers have their 
"He and fKinnonl Tatum [who
own nickname for themselves. 
played for the Irish from 1993­
The 'foxas trio has even gotten 
961, but he is probably a little
Boiman. who hails l'rnm Ohio, 
bigger than Tatum."
to join in with the name. 
His teammates
"Wn call 
have also seen
oursrlvns 
"We call outselues the the impact
the Trill 
Denman has on
'backers," Trill 'backers. " 
the Irish defense. 
Dnnman 
"For us he is
said. "Trill 
Anthony Denman irreplaceable
means true 
because of the
and real. 
type of player he
It's a Texas 
is," teammate and friend Grant
thing. Tyreo IIarrison, Honnie 
Irons said. "He has done a
Nicks and myself assimilated 
great job through out this year
Hocky Boiman into the Trill 
with the intensity he provides
backers. We're going nation­
and the enthusiasm he shows
wide with it." 
on the field." 
Though they haven't caught 
His du ties this year also
the atl!mtion of a national audi­
include calling plays in the hud­
rmce just yet. thf! junior from 
dle. His combination of talent
Husk. Texas, has proven to be 
and personality has thrust 
an integral part of an improv­
Denman into a role as a leader
ing Irish drfense. 
of the defense.
A year ago, the 6-foot-2, 233­
"Any time you are a line­
pound Denman played behind 
backer and you are in front of
tri-captain Kory Minor at out­
that huddle, you have to be a
side linebacker. This year, with 
leader," defensive coordinator
the graduation of Hobbie 
Greg Mattison said. "He's been
lloward and Jimmy Friday 
the one who is communicating
from the inside positions, 
things to the other guys."
Denman was asked to switch 
The influence of Minor has
ppsitions. 
helped Denman adjust to his 

Junior linebacker Anthony Denman recovers a fumble In Notre Dame's 25-24 victory over Southern California. 
leadership position. them. I don't want them to see best possible scenario for the 
"Kory was a great leader," me doing something bad.'' postseason. the Irish need to 
Denman said. "Every time he Since his days at Rusk High win their final three games of 
came to practice, he practiced School, Denman has shown his the season. Denman believes 
hard. He was a great inspira­talents at a multitude of posi­his team has the right attitude 
tion." tions. Besides linebacker, to do just that. 
Though he tries to lead by Denman played running back, "The attitude now is that 
example. Denman also knows quarterback. defensive line and we're going to beat Pitt, Boston 
that at times he must be vocal. fullback during his high school College and Stanford," Denman 
"I try to lead by example," career. As a senior, Denman said. "It's not even going to be 
Denman said.."I don't tell the rushed for 1,250 yards and 12 close. We're going to blow them 
other guys what to do but I just touchdowns from his running out. That's my attitude person­
try to make plays and leave it back position while making 85 ally." 
there." tackles on defense. Though he now lives in South 
"But sometimes when we're "It has been a bit of a transi­Bend, Denman will always be 
getting driven upon, I tell the tion," Davie said. "He came true to his home state. Even if ­
defense to turn it up a notch," here as tailback out of high his teammates give him a hard 
Denman added. "You've got to school. So he has gone from the time. 
get them going." tailback to outside linebacker to "Texas has the best football 
Besides being a leader on the inside linebacker. But one thing ever, of any state," Denman 
Irish team, Denman believes he you learn, good football players said, "even Florida or 
also has an obligation to be a are good football players. They California. Texas is the best." 
leader at home as well. With can play anywhere." And if Denman's Husk team 
two younger brothers, Charlvin The Irish will need the talent­ever played against his follow 
and John, Denman knows his ed Denman to continue to play Trill backers in high school? 
lifestyle has a major influence well when they travel to "If we would have played 
on their lives. Pittsburgh on Saturday. A wf!ek them we would havf! beat both 
"I pride myself by living by ago Denman recorded a team­of their teams," Denman said. 
example," Denman said. ''I've high 13 tackles in the 38-14 "Both Kilgore [Nick's school] 
got two younger brothers -r loss to Tennessee. and Sulphur Springs 
want to be a good example to In order to ·put itself in the [Harrison's school].'' 
-
birthdate: Oct. 30, r979 the people who have helped me if I could play another position 
hometown: Rusk, Texas the most since I've been at on the other side of the ball it major: MIS Notre Dame:family. Grant would be: tailback dimensions: 6-Joot-2, 230 Irons, Don Pierce most stimulating class at Notre 
up close & 
personal 
pounds a word to describe him of the Dame: psychology 252 high school: Rusk High School field: wig-splitter athlete he admires: Emmitt 
dorm: Alumni IIall a word to describe him off the Smith field: trill
WITH ANTHONY DENMAN 
.. 
page 6 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 12, 1999 
-
Irish experts 

Brian Kessler sports editor 
(27-9) 
NOTRE DAME PENN STATE VIRGINIA TECH ALABAMA 

Bill Hart associate editor 
(25-11) 
NOTRE DAME PENN STATE VIRGINIA TECH 
MISSISSIPPI STATE 

Mike Connolly associate editor 
(25-11) 
NOTRE DAME PENN STATE VIRGINIA TECH ALABAMA 

-
Tim Casey football writer 
(28-8) 
NOTRE DAME 
PENN STATE VIRGINIA TECH 
ALABAMA
-
AROUND THE NATION 

get back to winning ways 
Observer Staff Repon 
While No. 6 Penn State's bid for a national title was dashed by Minnesota last Saturday, it must regain its focus before the No. 16 Michigan Wolverines come tQ Happy Valley or the Nitany Lions could find themselves in second place in the Big 10 with no chance at a Rose Bowl bid. 
Since losing to the Michigan State Spartans on Oct. 9, the Wolverines have won close games over Illinois, Indiana and Northwestern to improve to 4-2 in the Big 
10. While Michigan's Rose Bowl chances are slim, it can still play the spoiler role against Penn State. 
LaVar Arrington and Courtney Brown, who could go 1-2 in next spring's NFL draft, lead one of the nation's top defenses against a well balanced Michigan offense. The A-Train, Anthony Thomas, has scored 14 touchdowns for the Wolverines and rushed for over 1000 vards to lead the ground attack while sophomore David Terrell have caught 53 passes to spark the passing attack. Terrell isn't the only receiving threat for the Wolverines. Marcus Knight, Aaron Shea, Marquise Walker and Thomas have also caught more than 20 passes so far in 1999. 
While the Penn State defense is strong, its offense is questionable. Head coach Joe Paterno alternates between Kevin Thompson and Rashard Casey at quarter­back. Thompson is the better passer but Casey adds spark and athleticism to the offense. Chaf'ie Fields is both quarter­backs' favorite target. He has caught 31 passes for 592 yards and six touchdowns in 1999. 
No. 19 Miami at No. 2 Virginia Tech 
The Hokies look to prove they arc wor­thy of their top two ranking in the polls after coasting through a schedule that included such cupcakes as Div 1-M James Madison, Alabama-llirmingham and Rutgers ·while just barely beating a West Virginia team that lost to Navy at home. 
While Virginia Tech st11adily climbed in the polls this year, \1iami has rebounded from a poor start to put itself in position for a HCS berth. After beginning the sea­son with a win over Ohio State in the kick­off classic and a win over Florida A&M, Miami dropped three straight to Penn State, Florida State and East Carolina to fall to 2-3. Since that time, Miami has beaten up on weak Big East schedule to improve to 6-3 and a first place tie with Virginia Tech in the Big East. 
Virginia Tech is led by a stifling defense that features two of the best defensive linemen in the country in John Engleberger and Corey Moore. While the Hokie defense has always been strong, their offense is now at a level where it is no long a liability. Led by one of the most explosive players in the country, quarter­back Michael Vick, the offense can put points on the board in bunches. 
The Hurricanes feature an athletic quar­terback in Kenny Kelly whose favorite tar­get has been Santana Moss and a bruising running back in James Jackson. 
No. 8 Mississippi State at 
No. 11 Alabama 
Quick, name the only undefeated team in the Southeastern Conference. Nope. Not Florida. Or Tennessee or even Georgia. The only SEC team without a blemish on its record is the Mississippi State Bulldogs. Jackie Sherrill's squad has benefited from a schedule rich with sub .500 teams and has yet to face a real threat. That changes this Saturday when the Bulldogs travel to Tuscaloosa to take on the Crimson Tide in a battle for the top of the SEC West. 
Alabama, which dealt Florida its only loss on the year, relics on Heisman trophy candidate Shawn Alexander for much of its offense. The senior is both a rushing a receiving threat out of the backfield who has scored 14 touchdowns on lhe ground and four through the air. 
The Bulldogs rely on a defense that returns seven starters from 1998 with tho front siwen especially strong. 
A win over MSU would most likely give Alabama a berth in the SEC title game with a BCS slot on the line while th0 Bulldogs must start off the toughest part of their schedule with a win over the Crimson TidP. \Iississippi State plays a tough Arkansas team and No. 18 Mississippi in the following two weeks. 
4 

9 
'"1.0
?\11t1· 
12 13 .•.. 14 
17 

Mississippi 7-2 508 .,l!,mi.(FJa. )··. 5.3 • 486 Minnijsota 6·3 357 Soufllern Miss 6-3 310 
22 Purdue 6-4 288 
.W gton ..•.· ¥ii, 6-3 213 , olina>•·••i!TI! 7•2.••..\.s•. 9gllfit Ohio State 6-4 89 
'Q.ther te:rt.THS receiving votes: Texas A&M 70, · siana tech•&o, Bosron College 55; Oklahoma 
Vlrginia20, Oregon 15, Stanford 11, Clemson 9, 
Oregon State 9, Syracuse 6, Arkansas 5, Western 
Mich 5, Utah 4, Fresno State 3, NOTRE DAME 2 

points 
1,746 1,656 1,599 1,523 1,495 1,328 1,296 1,288 1,206 
1,085 
1,006 947 853 825 805 
749 
680 
2 

·7 
J"1I;: •10 11 12 ir11 14 15 16 
team 
flo ~Jate (66) J'ech (4) ;;,; 
Tenttessee Florida Kansas State 
PenifState Nebraska Misslssippi State Wisconsin Texas Alabama· Marshall Georgia Tech Geor~ia 
BYlPi•.•)· 
Michigan Michigan Slate 
record 
9-D ··· 
8·0 
7-1 
8-1 9-0 
9-1 
8-1 
8-0 8-2 8-2 
7-2 
9·0 
6-2 6-2 8-1 7-2 7-2 
ESPN/USA Today Poll 
t(!a,n  rec&rd  points  
Florida State (57)  9-0  1,472  
Virginia Tech (1)  8-0  1,394  
Tennessee (1)  7-1  1,333  
Florida  8·1  1.282  
Kansas State  9-0  1,270  
Nebraua  8-1  1,120  
Mississippi State  B·O  1,115  
Penn Slate  9-1  1,100  
WiSC~Sin  8-2  1,012  
Texas  8-2  992  
Marshall  9-0  773  
BYU  8·1  766  
Alabama  7-2  764  
Georgta Tech  6-2  739  
Michigan  7-2  684  
Georgia  6•2  656  

17· Ml!,1hl!J3U Stale '1a Mississip.pt 19 Miami (Fla.)  7-2 7-2 5-3  563 432 379  
20  Southern Miss  6·3  253  
21  Minnesota  6-3  152  
22  Washington  6·3  145  
23  TexasA&M  6-3  141  
24  East Carolina  7-2  138  
25  Boston College  6-2  137  

other teams recefoing 11otes: Purdue 108,
Michigan at Penn State....... 12 p.m., ABC Auburn at Georgia ............ 6 p.m., ESPN2 
Ohio State 65, Stanford 39, ()klahoma.34, Arkansas
around 
-31, Colorado State 23, Syracuse 20, Virginia 18,
Indiana at Minnesota....... 12 p. rn., Ch. 46 Miami at Virginia Tech... -7:30 p.m. ESPN 
Louisiana Tech 14, Oregon 14, Louisville 13, Western Michigan 13, Clemson 11, NOTRE DAME 3
Iowa at Wist:onsin..........:3.-30 p.m., ABC Kentucky at Vanderbilt ......9 p.m., ESPN2·;
the dial· 
Friday, November 12, 1999 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 7 
quarterbacks: David defensive llne: Grant special teams: Poteat is 
....... Priestly is l!ery efficient, Irons is banged up and also a threat as a
the inside 
hut Jarious Jackson is • will probably not play, returner. The last time efficient. mobile and has but Anthony Weaver 1>.dt the Irish returned a a stronger arm. Priestly and Lamont Bryant are kick for a touchdown.
edge • 
is also hampered by a playing some oftheir however, was against shoulder injury. best football of the Panthers in Pitt the year. Demond Stadium. records: 5-4 Gibson leads the Pitt
running backs: Julius Overall
A.P. rank: NR defensive front. 
coaching: Walt IJarris 
• 
Jones ia a bit banged Some of the greatest
coaches' poll: Nil 
has taken a program
up but will play. Kevan linebackers: Anthony players in Pitt football
that hadfallen on hard
Barlow and Nick Denman gets stronger 
history will gather on the
times and turned it into
• Goings are powerful • and quicker every week EVEN
records: 4-5 a team with bowl sidelines this Saturday to
backs for Pitt. for the Irish. 11te PW
1\tt A.P. rank: NR potential every year. honor Pitt Stadium in thelinebackers have not
coaches' poll: NR receivers: Raki Nelson is Bob Davie made some
been impressive in last game ever to be 
still outfor the Irish so gutsy decisions in last
1999. played In the stadium.
1-\tt 
the Panthers get the week's loss to 
Luckily for the Irish, the
Series Record advantage with Late/ Tennessee. Grim and Antonio Bryant 1999 Panthers are tust a
Notre Dame leads series secondary: Ramon 
as big play threats. shadow of the Pitt glory
Walker and !Jank intangibles: The Panthers 
Poteat lead a potent days and Notre Dame
40-16-I 1\tt will be fired up foroffensive line: Losing Jordan Black sets Pitt secondary. Notre senior day and the last should have no trouble 
EVEN back the Irish line 1\it picking up its 21st win in
Dame's youth at game in Pitt Stadium. defensive back was The Irish will be looking
after consistent 30 trips to Pitt Stadium.
exploited by Tennessee
improvement. The Pitt for that elusive road 
in the nickel situations.
line is also weak, ,,ictory. however. 
IRISH EXCHANGE 
Irish must play well enough to win 
I think Hob Davie summed it up best at this week's news conft•nmce, commenting on the Tmmessee loss, when he said,
•·we should have won that gamn irwu would have played wnll enough to win." 
It must have bmm Yogi Berra day at Notrn Dame. 
butt 
think 
Davie hit 
the nail 
on the 
head. !l's just too bad that it 
took this long to figure that out. 
I guess this means that on 
many occasions we've lost a 
game bm:ause we have not 
played well enough to win. I 
gunss the next logical step is to 
figure out why we've been 
unable to win. 
Some of the diehard Irish 
"fans" have said that Notre 
I)ame nneds to abandon the 
strict admissions policies that 
mcruiL-. must pass so that the 
Golden DomP can more resem­
ble a pnnitm1tiary -or even 
worse, a state school. Sounds 
like a good tradeoff, academic 
mspnct for a winning football 
team wiLh players morn con­
cnrned with using collegn as 
training rnmp than as an oppor­
tunity to narn a dcgrne. But then 
we'd huve to get rid of all those 
colfoe-table books and posters 
that boast Notrn Oame's tradi­
tion and goals of excellence. 
But is Notrn Dame really lack­ing the ability Lo recruit some of tlu1 top players in the country'? Only if Notre Danm's two­straight top live classes is con­sidntf'd not good enough. If W(' can pull in players considered to bn in the ttlp live, why can't the Irish develop into a team that's u.nywlwre mmr the top live? 
It might have something to do with the fact that the Irish are orm game away from being at .500 and lighting to land a berth in tho Insight.com bowl. Tennessee simply shownd every­one that the Irish am on a differ­Ant level than the top teams. The talent is still there· for the Irish, it just seems that every other team is turning the talent into a solid unit. The best Lhe Irish can hope for a solid quarter of play. 
Somewhere o/twcen the high-ly-touted recruiting classes and the schooling we receive at the hands of opponents lies the coaching staff. And maybe here­in lies the answer to the wisdom of playing well enough to win. 


Inconsistency has made for some memorable moments this season in the nail-bitters against Oklahoma, USC and Navy. But I think we could have all done without blunders and bad calls that cost us the Michigan, Purdue, Michigan State and Tennessee games. Davie's accepting responsibility for what went wrong in those games sheds some light on the team's st.ruggles. 
The Irish knew that stopping Tee Martin wa.s crucial if we had any chance to upset the Vols. As has been the case all season long, the opponent's quarter­back has had nothing but suc­cess against the defensive hacks. Pittsburgh's duo of John Turman and David Priestley probably won't have Lhe same success that Martin dJd. but that's not saying much when Tennessee scored three pass touchdowns. Part of playing well enough to win must be stopping the oppo­nent's quarterback from having 
a career day. 
How successful is running the deep offense that offensive coor­dinator Kevin Rogers brings to each game when we aren't even successful running the ball? Freshman Julius Jones has shown flashes of excellence this season, yet was held to just 46 yards last week to lead the team. A running game should resem­ble more than .Jarious Jackson's one-man ground attack -which has often been the case this sea­son. Pittsburgh probably won't put the same pressure on defense that the Vols did. It might be a good idea ifthe Irish used that to their advantage. 
WHh the last road ·win for Lho Irish coming in last season's November matchup against Navy and the prospect of not making a bowl bid only two loss­es away, the Irish now more than ever need a flawless effort from its coaches. Hopefully, Davie will have a more to say following this weekend's game. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Irish can't beat good teatns, Panthers 
The final game at Pitt Stadium is finally here, and the Panthers get to face the most overrated school in the nation. The only good thing about Notre 
Mario Machi 
Dame is 
and
Pitts­
Brian Caprlk 
burgh 
native 
Bob Pitt News Davie. Sports Editors Every 
year, 
we're forced to see the Irish 
gracing the top 25, only to be 
forced out after a few losses 
in September and October. 
The first thing Irish fans will bring up is the strength of schedule. That's great, but if you can't beat the good teams, why do you play them year after year? 
Until we were 21, we thought Notre Dame was the fifth service academy. All those tough contests against Army, Navy and Air Force must have forced Notre Dame Athletics Director Michael Wadsworth to change to Michigan and Michigan State, thinking he might get some victories. Nope, good think­ing, though, Michael. 
With all those Big Ten teams on the schedule, you'd think the Irish were a mem­ber of that conference. I say, go right ahead, and quit ruin­ing the Big East's bowl chances. 
The Big East is not a strong conference, but there are some quality teams. There's talk of Boston College not making a bowl game, even with seven victories. which will include a Nov. 20 beating of the overrated Irish. 
I bet NBC is real happy that they arc locked with Notre Dame on a television schedule through the year 2005. No wonder they've dropped behind CBS in the ratings. That big win over Navy prob­ably drew as many viewers as Pitt's big ESPN-regional battle against Kent. 
Last week was real nice, too. As if we needed any more proof that Notre Dame is overrated, Tennessee beat up on Davie's t.roops, 38-14. 
Pitt is not overrated. They are not underrated, either. People think Pitt stinks and they do. Period. The Panthers do not have millions of wannabes wearing Notre Dame merchandise, claiming to be fans. What's so great about Notre Dame? 
So they've had some great teams. So has Pitt. Why don't they get a national television contract for all of their home games? WB will be pursuing a contract with Pitt in the near future, if you go by results. · 
The hallowPd ground of Pitt Stadium will say goodbye to college football after Saturday's game against the Crying Irish. The players are not too concerned with the end of the stadium, but the fans are. What better team to play than the Whimpering Irish? A victory would put us all over television, since beat­ing Notre Dame is supposed to be special, even though four teams have already done that this year. 
It's old news. Notre Dame loses, Notre Dame still gets into a bowl, because of the name. 
I'm sure it's hard for the Irish players to get motivated for this game, knowing a 56-0 loss would assure them a spot in the Gator Bowl. 
Things should be no differ­ent on Saturday. Notre Dame will come in, destroy Pitt and get national recognition because they overcame the odds of playing the last game at Pitt Stadium to win. 
In the event that Pitt wins, it's supposed to happen because of the emotional high of closing a 74-ycar old stadi­um. 
It's a no-win situation when you play Notre Dame, just as ii always is. II' Lou lloltz's South Carolina learn beat Notre Dame, it would be because he's a good coach, right? Nope. It's because he got all fired up about playing against Notre Dame. 
Spare me. When will this 
-
national fascination for a mediocre football team end? Maybe when the Irish join the Big Ten and lose seven games every year for the next mil­lennium. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
... 
, . I • • . " '• ' ' I , , .• _t •' 11• • • 1 . ~ .­
page 8 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, November 12, 1999 



J 
Beginning in September, UND.. com will offer a subscription service called: the Irish Insider. 
The Insider will feature: 
• 
Bi-Weekly .Bob Davie Column 

• 
Game Analysis 

• 
Player Diaries 

• 
Previews. 

• 
Video Playbook from the Coach's Edge


I 
I 
I ­
• Exclusive Irish Features 
Also included in the Insider Package: 
• 
Weekly Ticket Giveaways for Football and Men's Basketball Games 

• 
Big. East Tournament Ticket Giveaways 

• 
Bowl Game Ticket Giveaways 

• 
Discounts and Coupons for the Notre Dame Online Store 


B ecome an I r,s. h·. I ns,.der.. '' 
Sign up to become an Irish Insider and receive a Notre Dame t-shirt! The first 500 subscribers will receive a Notre
I .< 
i 
I 
I 
Dame football yearbook!
I 
-

Irish Insider at l.JND.com is not afliliated with The Observer. 
I 
I I 
l --::_ -·_ -­




