

Irish back on the road 
Chechans cross Russian border 
Senior defensive end Lamont Bryant leads the 
Russia allows thousands ofrefugees to flee 
Friday
Fighting Irish to Knoxville to clash with Tee 
war-torn Chechnya Thursday after blocking 
Martin and the No. 4 Tennesse Volunteers. 
their passage for more than a week. 
NOVEMBERS,
Irish Insider 
World & Nation . page 5 
1999 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXIII NO. 46 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

''Animals have no advocates; they can't speak for themselves. " 
Phyllis Shelton-Ball 
• • sL,. •"·




ND volunteers staff local no-kill animal shelter 
By LIZ ZANONI 
News Writer 
When Kmart employees found five puppies dflscrtNI nnxt to u lnaky, 30-l'oot dumpstnr, they phoned Sebrina Tingley, a staff member in the psychology department, at the Pet Hefuge in Mishawaka. 
Tingley is 01w of tlw many Notre Dame staff, faculty and students involved with Pel Refuge. a non-profit, no-kill, volunteer-operated animal shPltnr. 
"Animals have no advocates; they can't speak for themselves," said Phyllis Shelton-Ball, a romance language department staff member who· lwlps maintain Llw Pet Hefuge Web page. "It is up t{) the peopln who care about them." 
Pet lfofug{! has caught the attention of 14 Notre Danrn students and staff members who donate their time answnring phones. walking dogs, col­lncting food and evm1 fostering pnts until a suit­able home is found. 
"It amuzes me how many Notre Dame people from dilTerimt. parts nf campus are involved," said Estcr-Mirjam Sent, assistant professor of econom­
ics. 
Sent, who also helps update the Web page, was slrncked that after mentioning Pet Refuge in class, snveral students approached her to discuss volun­teering. "Pe{)pfe will support a cause or organiza­tion like this. they're just not aware of it," Sent said. 
Because Pel Bnfugc depends completely on its volunteers, the sht~lter always looks !'or people to assist in daily operations and long term fundrais­ing activities such as the annual Haunted Trail in October. 
"It doesn't have to be a huge time investment," Sent said. Something as simple as collecting Meijer's rnreipts, used by Pet llefuge to receive l'rne dog f'ood. helps the shelter immensely, she 
see SHELTERIpage 4 


A Pet Refuge volunteer holds puppies available for adoption at the Mishawaka shelter. Several Notre Dame students and staff members volunteer at the shelter where they walk dogs, answer phones, collect food and 
maintain the shelter's Web site. 
Grad students overshadowed 
• Grad school is small, but is it superb? 
By CHRISTINE KRALY 
Associate News EJimr 
/\sk graduatn students what thev lovti nlmut Notrn Dame and lh<'y r<'spond with a mulli­tudti ol' answers. 
More than likely, though, the answer won't be that it's because tlrn graduate scl1ool has a terrific reputation or relationship with Lim rest of the Univnrsity. 
The graduate school's motto has long b11c11 "Small but superb." 11 phrase roined by Nalhan !latch whnn he held the posi Lion as Lhc sclwol's vict• prusid{•nt. Janrns Merz, lhe school's prcs,~nl vice presi­dnnt. has si11c1i addnd "anrl growing modestly to meet our challenges_" 
The school is small, yes, but "a little far from [superb]," said Jorge Ganopolsky, a grad student studying biochemistry. 
Part of this, Ganopolsky says, is rtue to the differences he socs in graduate and under­graduate privileges. Ganopolsky, who likes to swim at the Rockne Memorial, suf­fers the burdens of undergrad­uate breaks when summer and break hours for the facility shorten. 
Other places on campus, including the llesburgh Library. change their hours during breaks. This, he said, shnws prel'ercnlial treatment because graduate students live al sd100J throughout the year. 
"!You canl !'eel the differ­ence," Ganopolsky said. "When undergrad students Jare not around J. we're not taken care of." 

The school's motto, said Mike Waddell, a joint medieval studies and philosophy gradu­ate student, is a "pretty accu­rate" reflection of his work. 
Waddol! wanted a relatively small school, by graduate school standards, but one with a good academic reputation, which is why he says he came to Notrn Dame. Students neod to understand. though, that the Univcrsitv's main focus is not on graduate studies, he said. 
"The University has a stronger commitment to undergraduate students," he said. "You need to know that when you get here." 
Notre Dame, Waddell said, is interested in improving its pro­file, not educating its graduatn students, and the University nCf~ds to FJvaluatc why it doFJs this. 
"Most of the University 
see GRADUATE/page 6 
Counselors grieve loss of Coleman 
By JACKIE OSTROWSKI 
News Wrirer 
After a two-year battle with cancer, Sally Coleman, a sub­stance abuse counselor at the University Counseling C1mter, died Oct. 21. 
Coleman worked at Notre Dame for 14 years. She was diagnosed with cancer in October 1997. and had multiple surgeries afterward, resulting in time away from work. She returned to the Counseling Center in January 1999 and worked full-time during the spring semester. Her cancer returned in August, however, preventing her from working this semester. 
Those who knew Coleman stress not only her impact as a counselor and faculty member, 
but also as a friend and role model. 
"She was very inspirational and strong," said Wendy Settle, a staff psychologist and a col­league of Coleman's. "She had a way of connecting with peo­ple." 
Coleman accomplished a great deal while at Notre Dame. In 1987. she helped write the grant that created the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education. Previously, Notre Dame only had a counseling center. 
Another one of her projects, Challenge 2000, was an enor­mous undertaking. Coleman proposed a national confornnce at Notre Dame that would draw in hundreds of people from across the nation to discuss a 
see COLEMAN/page 6 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Friday, November 5, 1999 
INSIDE COLUMN 
No Way Out 
l'm sure everyone realizes what their situa­tion is at some point. but the state I recently found myself in struck me as an interesting coincidence over break. 
One day, I'm in school, stressing over my Latin quizzes and questions for Core. The next. I'm relaxing with my cousins in Michigan, talking, playing games and read­ing. 
It was then I realized I  
was stressed because I  Angela Campos  
hadn't left myself a way  
out.  
When I was in high  Lab Tech  
school, whether I had the  
time or not. I always had  

novel to read for fun, outside of class. 
When I started to get stressed out or need­ed a break from my schoolwork, I'd let mysP.lf become part of the story and I would be absent from reality, relaxing and relieving myself of stress, 
Last year, I was so busy trying to keep up my grades and stay sane that I had no real free time to read, although I think I managed some reading time. 
As a result, I had a lot of stress and no way to rid myself of it. 
I decided that this year, as a sophomore, no matter how much work I had to do or how much time I had to do it, l would take time out of mv schedule to make sure I could relax -nameiy, curl up in a good book. 
That is a hard promise for me to keep because I am very busy and my homework does come first. 
I managed to start a book but couldn't get very far into it without stopping to be in reali­ty. 
Over break, I brought the book with me and had time to get involved in it; I let myself be a part of it as it became part of me. 
I finished it shortly after break, becoming enveloped in the story and rapt within the characters as if I was living their lives with them. 
Each time I finished reading, I had a lot of energy, which I tried to use to get the rest of my work done. 
Imagine your favorite thing to do. For some people it is to play video or com­puter games, 
For others, it is to be physically active. And others like to sit or lay down and do some­thing quietly. 
Take that thing you most like to do and think of how you are when you do that activi­ty and how you feel afterwards, 
Some of you might not feel anything of great significance, while others of you feel relaxed, excited, tense or any other sort of emotion. 
Hopefully it creates positive energy in you. That's one reason, for example, it's said that physical activity gives you energy. 
That positive energy is your way out, a way of relaxing by doing something you like to do and not having worrying about anything else. 
If there's one thing I've learned so far about life, it's that stress will only leave you with headaches and will trap you unless you leave yourself a way out. 
This year I have found ways out: fencing, reading. You might not think you have time do one more thing, but you do, Always leave yourself a way out, 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Erica Thesing Mike Vanegas Erin Piroutek 

Graphics 
Kyle Andrews 
Joe Mueller 
Sports 
Production 
Noah Amstadter 
Kerry Smith 


Viewpoint 
Lab Tech Dustin Ferrell Angela Campos 
The Observer (USPS >99 2-4000) is published Mond•y rhrough Fnday ex.cc.pc during exam and vacalion pieriods, The O·bservier in a. member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are mcrvcd. 

THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
Keenan presents first 'Keenan Review' Saturday, Nov. 6, 1976 
Keenan Hall performed "The New Keenan Review, an Evening of Song Dance and Comedy," in Washington Hall, and hoped it would become an annual event. The show included a soft rock number, a classical violin act and a barbershop octet, as well as 14 other acts. "This is a 
chance for Keenan to shine and for people within the hall to get to know each other," said director Tom Lenz. 



OUTSIDE THE DOME 
St. Mary's expands parietals hours Friday, Nov. 5, 1982 
St. Mary's instituted weekday parietals for the remain­der of the academic year. For the first time. male visitors will be allowed in residence halls from 5 to 10 p.m, on Sunday through Thursday nights. Weekend parietal hours remained the same. The change was welcomed by the vast majority of students, although some protested that the new hours would limit privacy. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

U. Wahington students anxious after shooting 
SEATTLE 
On a typical Wednesday afternoon, the Husky Lounge in The University of Washington's HUB basement is peaceful, Tired students nap on the tables and catch up on homework, lulled by the sounds of their favorite soap opera. 
But Wednesday, the tone was very different. Anxious students gathered in groups, mulling over the ramifica­tions of the events unfolding in Wallingford. 
Bicyclists started planning alternate routes home and Seattle newcomers began to wonder how safe their new home really is. 
"l walked to Gasworks Park and back this morning-it's really scary," said sophomore Jessica Shook, 
Shook was among those opting to avoid the Burke-Gilman Trail. Although she was only going as far 
"! don't think I've ever been that close to anything happening." 
Jessica Shook student 

as 8th Avenue, the fact that the trail extended through Wallingford was enough for her, 
"This is really weird -you can walk outside and see the helicopters,'' Shook said, "I don't think I've ever been that close to anything happen­ing," 
Weird and scary seemed to be the adjectives of choice in the Husky Lounge. 
Many people also had concerns about the description of the assailant that the television stations released. 
"Some guy in camoflage -it made 
me more aware of the ROTC guys 
walking around campus," said Lane 
Hatfield, a graduate student of 
English, 
Other students also mentioned the 
ROTC uniform, saying that it made 
the situation a lot weirder. A few 
complained about the vague nature of the description, 
Ashley Ballantyne, a graduate stu­dent in environmental engineering, summed up the general attitude toward tho "official" report on the shooter: 
"That could be 10 different people sitting in this room," he said. 
"It's creepy that it can happen any­where," said freshman Christine Mosbaugh, "It kind of wrecks your impression of [Seattle as] a nice, big town." 

MSU death ruied accidental 
EAST LANSING, Mich, 
The Ingham County medical examiner ruled Wednesday that the former Michigan State University student found Sept. 22 in the basement of a residence hall died accidentally, Neftali Valdez Greene Jr., 23, was found dead in an unused cooler, Greene was enrolled at MSU from January 1997 to May 1998 but did not graduate, Greene suffocated while in the cool­er, said Dean Sienko, Ingham County medical examin­er. Toxicology test results released Wednesday showed only traces of alcohol, which is a by-product of decomposition. Medical examiners found no signs of foul play or assault during the autopsy, "He had some mild bruising on his elbows and knees, but we attribute that to the small space he was in and bang­ing that may have been done in the space," Sienko said, Sienko said investigators spoke to some people who said Greene had previously been discovered in other cramped spaces, such as closets. The cooler has inside dimensions of 5 feet high, 2.5 feet deep and 3.5 feet wide and was located in an unused kitchen adja­cent to a study room. 




LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Friday Saturday Sund~y Mond<JV Tuesday 

/,.)' ,_y--"-..... 
Q,~,~-9.m,Q i'.)-~ c2 
Showers T-~torms Rain Aurries Snow Jee Sunny Pt. CJoudy Cloudy Via Associa1ed Press GraphicsNel 
OSU students question 'gay panic' 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 
While members of the Ohio State Bisexual, Gay and Lesbian Alliance approved of the guilty verdict of Aaron McKinney for the murder of Matthew Shepard, they are concerned about the attempted use of the "gay panic" defense and believe that the possibility of more hate crimes is still present. "I am pleased with the verdict and hope for a sentencing that's appropri­ate for the crime," said Heather Rottenberg, a junior speech and hearing sciences major, The defense's attempt to use the "gay panic" defense was not credi­ble, Rottenberg said. This defense is based on the idea that some men react violently to propositions by homosexuals. Instead, the defense tried to appeal to both pro-gay and anti-gay sentiments, she said. "The people that hate homosexuals say it is a good thing that [a gay person] is dead, while those who like gays will feel sorry for McKinney," she said. Scott Schopper, a sophomore biochemistry major, also believes that the "gay panic" defense is invalid and hopes that Shepard's case sets a precedent of throwing out that defense, 


NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeathe~ forecast tor noon, Friday, Nov. 5. 

Os 
Pr#Uur&: ® ©  D~CJJIB!l22JEEJ  ~ .~-~  
High  Low  Shower&  Rain  T-tdorm•  Flurries  Snow  Ice  Sunny  Pt. Cloudy  Cloudy  
Via Associall9d Prsss  
Atlanta  66  40  Knoxville  66  31  Rapid City  54  36  
Baltimore  67  36  Las Vegas  78  63  Sacramento  73  44  
Boston  65  39  Memphis  73  46  St. Louis  74  58  
Chicago  62  41  New Yort<  66  45  Tampa  78  48  
Cincinnati  65  43  Philadelphia  62  37  Wash DC  63  38  



Friday, November S, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

By LAURA ROMPF New5 Writer 
!\11er a two-day competition, lloly Cross College selncted designs l'rom lhre1• Nolrn Dame studnnts f'nr the construction of ils new millennium gate. 
The design combini>s ideas rrom Notni Dame senior Suzanne Stugart and a sopho­more team of Trevor Draper and lleatlwr Heilly. Construction on the gale started in early October. 
The cornpntition began when the college decided to conm1,!m­nnLl<\ lhe mil!(\nnium change ­a Christian mellrnd of marking tinw -with a pedestrian gate made ol' stonn and brick. The gate symbolizes the "doorways" that Catholic churches will open on Christmas live to mark the Jubilee year, said lfoilly. 
"We all won the compntition and the final design is a hybrid of our two original designs," Stugart said. "We each clevcl­oped our original designs sepa• rately, but after we were chosen as the winners we spent an addi­tional day working with two graduate students and various professors to decide upon the final design and to draft the con­struction drawings." 
Holy Cross Campus Ministry director Hobert Kloska played an integral role in starting the pro­ject. The competition was open to all Notre Dame architecture students, who had slightly more than 48 hours to create a design, said Stugart. 
"I just tried to envision a gate that l would find welcoming and to design something Holy Cross could be proud of, as it's the first thing people see as they arrive on campus," Stugart said. 
The St. Joseph Valley Masonry Contractors Association, whose mission is to educate local archi­tects and union masons about new building techniques and materials, joined ·with local com­panies to supply goods and ser­vices for the project. 

"The gate that we put together is now the one that is located in front of the main Holy Cross building," Reilly said. "It is not complete. We are waiting for more funding to finish the top of the arch." 
As winners, Stugart will receive a $150 cash prize, and Reilly and Draper will share a $150 cash prize. 
In addition, they will receive full scholarships for the International Masonry Institute's Summer Masonry camp in Maine. 
Other companies that con­tributed to materials and labor of the project include Rose Fuel and Material, Verkeler Inc., Ziolkowski Construction, International Masonry Institute and The International Union of Bricklayers and Allied Craftsmen. 
The South Bend Tribune con­tributed to this report. 
Weekend conference focuses on inequality 
TEXTBOOKS TO OTHER STUDENTS. YOU WILL MAKE MORE MONEY AND YOUR FELLOW STUDENTS WILL SAVE MORE! IT'S THAT SIMPLE. 
LOG ON NOW AND LIST YOUR FALL SEMESTER TEXTBOOKS AND GET ENTERED FOR THE CHANCE TO WIN YOUR NEXT SEMESTERS BOOKS FOR FREE!!!! THAT'S RIGHT WE WILL HOLD A DRAWING ON DECEM­BER 30, 1999 TO FIND THE WINNER OF OUR" SEMESTER FOR FREE" 


A Concert of Indian Classical Music 
CONTEST. YOU WILL RECEIVE 1 ENTRY FOR EVERY BOOK YOU LIST 
featuring 

THE MORE BOOKS YOU LIST THE BETTER YOUR CHANCES OF WIN­
Uday Bhawalkar-DHRUPAD VOCAL 

accompanied by NING. 
Manik Munde-Pakhawaj 

WHEN YOU'RE THERE, GET THE LATEST SCOOP ON WHAT'S HAPPEN­
Sunday, November 7, 1999 at 7 pm 

ING AT YOUR COLLEGE OR AT CAMPUSES AROUND THE COUNTRY. 
at the Auditorium, Hesburgh Center for International 
THERE'S ALSO A SECTION WITH UP TO DATE SCORES AND COLLEGE 
Studies; University of Notre Dame 

NEWS. 
Sponsored by: 

The India Association of Notre Dame & Office of International 
Student Affairs 

FROM TEXTBOOK SWAPPING, COLLEGE APPAREL AND GAME TICKETS 
TO THE LATEST CAMPUS NEWS, IT'S ALL JUST A CLICK AWAY AT CAM­
The Asian Indian Classical Music Society of Michiana 
PUSMONSTER.COM 
The Joan 8. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies 
ND/SMC Faculty & Staff: $5 Students: Free 
Contact: Amitava Dutt (631-7594, 273-0928) 
11usmons1ee.com I 
Please recycle The Observer 
performance gap existing
ATTENTION STUDENTS: 

between black, Hispanic and Native American students and their white and Asian peers.
WHY SELL YOUR USED TEXTBOOKS BACK TO THE BOOKSTORE FOR 
The difference in academic performance exists across the
LESS WHEN YOU CAN SELL THEM DIRECTLY TO ANOTHER STUDENT? 
socioeconomic spectrum and 
CAMPUSMONSTER.COM ALLOWS STUDENTS TO SELL THEIR USED 
ranges from kindergarten to 
graduatr, school. 
For example, at main­stream collegos and universi­ties, minority students tend to earn significantly lower grades than white and Asian students. Additionally, minorities earned only 13 percent of America's ILA. degrees, 11 perr.ent of profes­sional degrees and six por­cent of' the doctoral degrnos. 
The Institute for 
Educational Initiatives is 
sponsoring the conference as 
a way to promote disr,ussion 
and encourage collaborative 
research among social scien­
tists. 
. On Sunday, there will be a 
similar 
workshop Academic 
for Notre 
achievement
Dame fac­
ulty and disparity 
graduate In the U.S., 
students 
s1u d Ying minorities receive 
the socio!-. 13 percent of 
ogy of BAd 
o d u c a -· · egrees 
. 11 percent of
lion. " W i t h professional the num­
ber of degrees 
p e o p I e . six percent of attending doctoral degrees
the con­ference this year, and the number of universities they are from, I'd say we have been quite suc­cessful," Hallinan said. 
The Institute was estab­lished in 1997 to improve the education of all youth, partic­ularly the disadvantaged. Researchers at the institute study the institutional aspect of schools as they affect and are affected by other American institutions. 
The institute's program on the social organization of schools researches areas such as curriculum, teacher prac­tices and student social rela­tionships. The program espe­cially focuses on Catholic schools and at-risk students. 

. Participants will discuss gap in achievement of white and minority students 
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
News Writer 
Social sc.ientists from around the country will explore the disparity in acad­emic achievement between minority and white students at a conference in McKenna Hall on Saturday. 
Notre Dame's Institute for Educational Initiatives will sponsor its third annual con­ference, entitled "The Black­White Achievement Gap." 
"We started holding this annual conference to promote discussion among social sci­entists studying education, and particularly to increase discussion and collaboration among researchers in the Midwest," said Maureen Hallinan, professor and direc­tor of the institute's program on the social organization of schools, in a prepared state­ment. 
Presenters from universities across the U.S. will discuss topics ranging from the quali­ty of research on the achieve­ment gap to grade retention. Conference participants will. also explore standardized test sco·res and academic stan­dards. 
Professors from Notre Dame will lead discussion sessions following each pre­sentation. 
According to Sylvia Phillips, who works with Hallinan, the College Board recently reported a study that found a 

"If we don't have it, you can't get it!" L__________, 
page 4 The Observer. CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 5, 1999 
DEMOCRATIZATION LECTURE 

Shelter 
continued from page I 
said. 
Pet Refuge, which spays and neuters pets and educates the public on pet care and welfare, is unique because it does not euthanize animals. Instead, Adopt-a Pet Day at Pet Refuge brings together animals and potential owners. 
During Adopt-a Pet Day, potential owners are inter­viewed twice before receiving permission to bring an animal home. Pet Refuge is very con­cerned with placing pets in a loving and caring environment. 
"We put a lot of time and money into the animals and we want to give them the best life possible," Tingley said. 
Volunteers can take a more active role by fostering an ani­mal until a home is found. The shelter supplies the food and veterinarian care for people willing to foster a pet. 
Tingley is fostering five pup­pies for Pet Refuge. She fos­tered a dog last year who was then adopted permanently into her family. 
"You can learn much more about yourself as you learn about animals," Shelton-Ball said. 
She admitted that her adopt­ed dog, Katie, changed the way she and her husband approach life. 
Shelton-Ball said volunteer­ing at the Pet Refuge might be especially fulfilling for students who miss their pets at home. 
For more information, visit the Pet Refuge Web site at http://www.petrefuge.com or contact Sent. The site features pictures of dogs and cats who need homes or foster care. 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME "INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM IN 
DUBLIN, IRELAND 
"The Best of Both Worlds" 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Monday, November 8, 1999 102 DeBartolo 4:45 PM 
With Katie Schott, Administrator Keough-Notre Dame Centre, Dublin 
Applications Available Application Deadline: December 1 For Fall 2000 -Spring 2001 
AY 2000-2001 

Local adoption organization will host meeting on campus 
handle are international." 

By KATE STEER 
Apprehension about domestic adoption is News Writer 
also on the rise. "The rights of birth parents are scaring people away from domestic adop­Adoption is often a lengthy, costly and frus­tions," said Anastasio. trating process. It seems likA there arc morn international 
A local organization is working to make that children than there arc couples to take them, process easier on the families involved. This she added. Sunday, representatives from "It's a complicated process and we want to Adoption Network Domestic make it understandable and simplified for
Adoption

and International (ANDI) and people," Anastasio said. families who have experi­meeting ANDI has a special connection to the enced the adoption process University. Last spring, ANDI started an
. Sunday,

will meet on campus to share internship to train students in all facets of their stories. 211.m. adoption. 
The organization was found-. 119 O'Shag "A lot of students are interested in the non• ed in 1994 by Mary Jo profit sector, so this is a great opportunity," Anastasio, who died in 1998. Anastasio said. 
"She was a leading expert on adoption in Senior Michele Visnosky is the current North America, really," said Fran Anastasio, intern at ANDI. "Basically, I'm learning a lot current director and daughter of the l 994 about the adoption process both international­founder Mary Jo Anastasio, who died last ly and domestically," she said. year. ANDI, a non-profit organization dedicat­Anastasio is coordinating the Sunday semi­ed to finding homes for children, works as a nar and has a simple goal in mind: "We want partner and local connection for families to educate people on the adoption process and intfirested in adoption. It specializes in disp,il the foar involved in international adop­international adoplions. tion." 
"We work with groups that have political Karen Price, missionarv and staff member of and legal connections with countries to com­Dillon International, on·e of the groups that plete the process," sa.id Anastasio. "The only works with ANDI. will be presenting informa­concern we have is finding loving homes for tion and answering questions on international unwanted children." adoption. The presentation will also include 
Because most people have fears about testimony from international families who international adoptions, ANDI is able to find have completed the adoption process and from international children quite readily, said families still involved in the process. Anastasio. The adoption seminar is free and will meet 
"Things like politics in China are preventing Sunday at 2 p.m. in 119 ()'Shaughnessy. people from pursuing international adoption," Anyone interested in international adoption is she said. "About 80 percent of the cases we encouraged to attend. 

~ 0 0 0 
PulliamJournalism Fellowships 
Graduating college seniors are invited to apply for the 27th annual Pulliam 
Journalism Fellowships. We will grant 10-week summer internships to 20 
journalism or liberal arts majors in the August 1999-June 2000 graduating 
classes. 
Previous internship or part-time experience at a newspaper is desired. or other demonstration of writing and reporting ability. Those who go through the Fellowships often find new professional opportunities opening up at other newspapers during and after the program. Wmners will receive a $5,500 stipend and will work at either The Indianapolis Star or The Arizona Republic. Opportunities for online training are available, along with reporting experience at our major metropolitan daily newspapers. 
Early-admissions application postmark deadline is Nov. 15, 1999. By Dec. 15, 1999, up to five early-admissions winners will be notified. All other entries must be postmarked by March 1, 2000, and will be consid­ered with remaining early-admissions applicants. Successful applicants will be notified on or before April I, 2000, and will be asked to respond immediately with a letter of intent, at which time one-third of the cash grant will be mailed to the Fellow. 
To request an application packet, visit our Web site, e-mail us or write: 

Russell B. Pulliam Pulliam Fellowships Director Indianapolis Newspapers 

\\(ch ~ilc: ·,\ \\ v:.~1.m1. ..i ,.wm/pjf P.O. Box 145 E-maij: rulli,nn<a. ,, .trp.:,\,.1.·,;111· 
Indianapolis, IN 46206-0145 

If you are interested in vvriting for The Observer Nev,s Department, call Tim at 1-5323. 
orld 



hiday, November 5, 1999 COMPILED PROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Lost souls join Falun Gong 
BEi.JING 

Acknowl!\clging a spiritual vacuum amid China's stunning nconomic growth, the guv­nrnmnnt's top rnligious ollkial said Thursday that the banned Falun c;ong spirilual movc­1111)11t attractnd peopln lost in tho unsntiling changPs. Whiln tlw govnrnnrnnt claims most ponplP worn drawn lo Falun Gong's slow­111olio11 mnditation nxen:isns as a way to knep fit. Yn Xiaowcn said it also 11ttraclPd pnoplo u11ahln to cope with rapid social cha11gns brought ahout by I\Conomic rnl'orms. "TlwrP. am pnople who havnn't adaptod to this fast dcwdopi11g ~ocinty, who fod unbalancnd, spir­itually empty," Ye told fornign and Chinnsn Journalists. "So somn culls likn Falun Gong lrnv1• c•11wrg1'd to attract th()m." It was an unusual n11H'Pssi1111 roming l'rorn a r(•pr1•son­talivP o(' tlw ('O!lll1llllliSL goVC'l'lllllClll. 
Churches protest 
building of mosque 
JEHUS/d,EM 

C:liun:)ws in the Holy L,rncJ will clm;e for two days this month to protest plans to build a nwsqtm in Nazareth, the town ol' .Jesus' boy­hood, Christian lnaders said Thursday. LeadPrs of' the Homan Catholic, Greek Orthodox and t\rnwnian denominations said in a stat(mrnnl that their churches would close Nov. 22-23. Christians and Muslims in Nazan1th have bnen <1uarrnling over who owns a plot of' land near the Basilica of the Annunciation. bdi1wml by many Christians to lw ttw site wlHW<\ the J\ngd Gabriel first spoke to Mary of .Jesus· birth. J\ state-nrncliated com­promise last month allowed f'or Muslims to build a mos<1tw in one corner of the plaza, and for the Christians to rntain control of tho rosl. But tlw Christians, a minority in Nazar1\tli, implind Israel's decision was skewnd lwcausn thn plot should he under rhurch -not state\ -contn1I. 
Federation of Blind sues AOL 
BOSTON 

Tlw National Fmlnration of Lim Blind lilml a fo dti raI Iaws u il a g ,f inst t\ 111 erica On Ii n e Thursday, accusing the world's largest lntornril. Sflrvicn of violating thn J\m(lricans with Disabilities J\ct. Thn fodnration chargml tlrnt J\01., unlikn otlrnr lntnrnnt snrvice providers, is incompatible with software pro­grams that convert text to audio or Brailln. "Tlrny'rn gntting lots of complaints," said Danitd Goldstein. an attorney for thn nine blind nrnmbers or the :vlassachuselts chapter ol' the federation who brought lawsuit. "It's hc1m ninu ynars since the Americans with Disabiliti•is Act was enacted. Patience has lwgun lo !lag." Lawyers for the plaintiffs are arguing lhat AOL violates parts ol' the law that requirn equal access to public accommoda­tions. Fndnral coui-ts have rulnd that an ar·.commodation can be a service, Goldslnin said. 
Market Watch: I 1/4 
Dow 
AMl<~X: 
807.47

]ONES 
+3.39 'i.rii: 
Nasdaq: l42l 3055.95 
+27.44

10~4 Ell 
NYSE: 
Down:
624.72 
LJ 
ll.57
+3.26 S&.P 500: 
1362.64 
C'on11msite
•7.71 
Volume: +30.58 914,000,000 
VOLUME LEADERS 

('(lMl'ANY l'ICKtN ,,fll·\UW S'iAIN rmn 
( ti U: kOtH• IN< 
+Lm +1.1,00 ~n, ,·tM~ll \V!i"I rMs -2.1() -1.~00 70,00 \.JIROS(ln ( lllH' -0.27 -U,250() 91.75 t't'>Ml'Atl t"t lMl1t!TFU +1."1 . fU7UO IY 12 [:-(IF.I.CORI' +2.Z7 + I.HIii!) Kl.SO ORACl.h COili' •LU +U.N775 5H.l9 •: 1'1UIJt: t;lWUi' t-PU'1 +~.lfJ25 ]LlK IIFU. COMl'll'H~ -tl.H t0.$600 42.So l'.if.NAUlH.f' +!,t,05 +3,6,WO ,l.62 l'J\l'.-W[.':i,T Tf.LF.Cl) ,B,.40 +tl, . 41)1) 18.4'1 
RUSSIA 


Associat~d Press • 
SLEPTSOVSKAYJ\ 
Russia allow1~d thousands of frightened and angry civilians to flee war-bat­tered Chechnya on Thursday after blocking them at the frontier for more than a week. 
Hussian ground forces, meanwhile, continued heavy artillery and rocket assaults in Moscow's stated 
campaign  to  wipe  out  
Islamic  militants  in  
Chechnya.  

More than 200,000 people have !led Chechnya since Russia began the offensive in September, most to neighboring lngushetia. 
Russia closed all crossings out of Chechnya last week. It opened others on Monday, but only allowed a few people to cross into Ingushetia, sparking sharp criticism at home and abroad. 

Officials relaxed controls at the Sleptsovskaya cross­ing, where thousands of refugees had massed, on Wednesday and allowed many more people to cross Thursday. Russia also allowed others to enter lngushetia at a crossing far­ther north, at Malgabek. 
There were no immediate figures on the numbers who crossed Thursday. But the flow at Sleptsovskaya appeared as high as 500 people an hour, and a Russian soldier at Malgabek said hundreds more crossed there. 
For those who got out, relief was mixed with fury at having to flee the Russian military assault. 
"It's impossible to stay in the village; you can't let your cow out," said Tatyana Durchiyeva, from the village of Arshty. "The soldiers steal everything. They drink vodka and trample our veg­etable plots with their tanks." 
For the first time, officials were permitting combat-age Chechen men to enter lngushetia. Previously, they had allowed only women, children and the elderly. 
The openings came amid increasing international pressure. President Clinton expressed concern to Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin at the high­visibility Mideast peace summit in Oslo, Norway, this week. 
In Washington, Stephen Sestanovich, a senior State Department ol'ficial, told Congress that other coun­tries need to do more to condemn Russia's tactics, adding that: "The use of indiscriminate force against innocent civilians is indefen­sible." 
The United Nalions sent a mission to the Ingush side of the border, prompting morn attention to the refugnes' plight. The head of the mis­sioi1, Nicholas Kassidis, said Thursday that tlrn world body was preparing to send food, medicine and clothes. 
Interior Ministnr Vladimir Rushailo also visited Lhn area Thursday along with Ingushetia President Ruslan Aushev, who had harshly criticized Russia for block­ing the crossing. 
· SOUTH AFRICA 

Rival cab drivers kill 10 in gun battle 
A$sociated Pres$ 
EMPANGENI 
Ilcavily armed police wero patrolling this seaside Lown Thursday after rival minivan taxi operators waged a l 5-minute gun battle that left at least 10 dnad and 24 wounded, u town ollicial said, 
The incident was the most serious of it.s kind in recent years in South Africa. where taxi associations often engag<J in violent bat­this to control lucrative commuting routes. The minivan taxis am the main means of transportation for poor blacks. 

The operators used hand­guns, shotguns and lrnavy caliber weapons in the lengthy battle Thursday, pinning down 14 police olli­ccrs assigned tu provide security at the station. A second group of patrolling officers 100 yards away finally restored order, said Pieter Odenda..i.1, the town's chief executive. 
At least two or those seri­ously wounded wore bystandnrs, said police Capt. Vishnu Naidoo. The identilies of the dead were not known. 
Provincial and town offi­cials docidod to call in addi­tional police reserves and military units and to bar taxis from entering the town until the dispute is set­iled. 
"We know it's a drastic measure," Odendaal said. "But another 10 people dead is just not acceptable." 
Alternative buses will be provided temporarily, he said, noting that the lack of transport will especially affect secondary students taking final exams. 
Surrounded by sugar cane fields, Empangeni is a commercial city about 90 miles up the coast from Durban, in KwaZulu-Natal province. 
Naidoo said taxi violence in the province started tapering off two years ago, thanks to pea'cn negotia• tions between rival associa­Uons. But tempers in Empangeni have narod in the past month, with onP taxi association ar.cusing its rival of poaching passen­gers. 
Authorities last month shut down taxi routos in tlrn poor townships north of Pretoria to quell such attacks. Eleven people had lmen killed tlwni in sepa­rate incidents sincn August. 
The taxis also have come under criticism for fre­quently being in bad repair or handled by reckless dri­vers who often pack them beyond the 16-seat maxi­mum. 


page 6 lhe Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 5, 1999 
G...A,aduate 
continuecl from page 1 
seems to have its attention drawn tmvards undergraduate than graduate [students]." Merz said. 
According to Merz, inequality exists in many aspects of grad­uate life. 
One concern is health insur­ance. All students, graduate and undergraduate, are required to have it. University health insurance covers only the student bearing the insur­ance, not a student's spousl' or children. This limitation in the policy. Merz said, affects gradu­ate students far more than it might affect undergraduates. 
Merz said University officials have discussed the "very com­plex, extremely costly" insur­ance issue, and that a second program has been negotiated. _ 
The inequality, according to Merz, stretches to manv areas of University life. The G~aduate Student Union, he said, "[has been givenJ totally unsatisfacto­ry" office space, unlike under­graduate groups, who he says receive ample space. It's tough w perform successfully as a student organization, he said, when the group is still at the bottom of the priority list fur meeting rooms. 
The group sponsors speakers and conferences, which Merz said is a concern when space is unavailable. 
The undergraduate and grad­uate programs "need to share visibility," Merz said. Graduate representation doesn't plav m uch of a role at Trustees meetings, he added. This includes the decision to turn down the Big Ten and remain independent, a decision Merz said considered little graduate opinion. 
Maybe the most visible differ­ence in graduate and under­graduate life is the living· arrangement. Eighty-five per­cent of undergraduates live on campus in well-lit, well-main­tained residences, said Merz. 
MA 
Mara died in 19 
Graduate students, he said,
don't see these same luxuries as tht~y live in off-campus hous­ing that is not maintained at the same level as undergraduate residence halls. 
According tu du Lac, gradu­ate students have no parietals rules because "tho design of graduate student apartment and townhouse facilities allows for 24-hour visitation without compromising the safoty, secu­rity and privacy needs of other individuals." 
Grad students have to comply more with thf' individual resi­dent policies of Fiscber-O'IIara­Grace (FOGl than with those outlined for residence halls. 
According to Rex Rackow, director of Notre Dame Security/Police. FOG residences are patrolled on a regular basis just as residence halls are. 
Entrance security is not the same as residence ha1ls. FOG buJ.ldings arf.J apartment-s_tyle itl'rcl are not card key accessible, but arc locked and guarded as the resident's responsibility. 
With all these visible differ­ences, many grad students say some of the most important improvements need to be made in fostering better community relationships, particularly with undergraduates. 
Melanie Peldo, a chemistry grad student, says that people often have a hard time seeing graduate students as students, rather than just the teaching assistants that grade papers. This is one more thing, she said, that serves as a barrier in fostering strong relationships with undergraduates. 
Waddell says that grad stu­dents sometimes set themselves up as elites compared to under­graduates. Graduate students, he said, need to think of them­selves as undergraduates' "intellectual older brothers and sisters." 
What needs to change first, Maria Canalas, president of the GSU says, is attitude. Students and administrators need to change the way they think if anything's going to change in treatment. 
We encourage everyone to run in the 2 mile road race; prizes will be awarded/or spirit as well as for speed!!! 
Look to pre-,register: $10 at the dining halls meet atl_0:30,.f?IJ,~i;gins at 11 :00 Lyons"Baskeib1;1.ll Courts $12 dt\y~of 
price includes long sleeve t-shirt and continental breakfast questions: Leigh 4-2804 or Erin 4-1497 
Please recycle 

~-Th_e_O_bs_e_rv_e_r__J 
Coleman 
continued from page 1 
holistic approach to alcohol education and treatment. 
Gina Firth. director of the Alcohol and Drug Education Program, attended the confer­ence. "It was one of the most amazing experiences of my life," she said. 
She accompani.ed Coleman to a conference in Washington, D.C., where Coleman recruited the 30 people necessary to establish Challenge 2000. 
"She literally talked 30 poo­ple into coming to Notre Dame a yP.ar from then," said Firth. "She convinced them in three minutes. You could not say 'no' to this woman." 
Hundreds of people from various professions attended the cont"ert>nc!l. They brokt~ into small focus groups to dis­cuss alcohol issues, and each group gathernd its ideas in a letter to students. Coleman compiled the 1.etters in her book, "Charting Your Course." 
Students said Coleman's everyday work touched many. 
"If you just talked to her for a few minutes, the conversa­tion would reach a level yuu'd never reached before," said Settle. "She had a way of affirming what is good in you, but also challenging you." 
Her unique ability to reach 
Got news? Call 1-5323 
TENNESSEE 



SAT., NOVEMBER 6TH KICK-OFF AT 7:30 p.m. IN LAFORTUNE TV LOUNGE 
COME CHEER ON THE IRISH WITH FREE FOOD & DRINKS! SEATING is limited, come EARLY!!! 

II 
oul to others helped change other students deal with such lives. Counseling Center direc­situations. tor Patrick Utz, who hirnd "Sally was my teacher and Coleman in 1985 and worked my mentor," said Gutierres, with her since, recalled one who began working at the particular-University last 1y memo­August. rable case. "She had a way of Her relation­
"A stu­ship with
affirming you what is
dent called Coleman,
good in you, but also
me to say which changed he'd been challenging you.,, to co-worker, sober for remained pos­10 yoars itive. "Sally's
Wendy Settle 
and he greatest
counseling center psychologist
had Sally accomplish­to thank,'' on Sally Coleman ment is her 
said Utz. 
Helen Gutierres, who currently works in the Counseling Center, was a student at Notre Dame when Coleman was first hired. She had the opportunity to work with Coleman because her room­mate had problems with heavy drinking. 
Together, Gutierres and Coleman began a student intervention team to help 
Turtle Creek 

Parking By Permit Only 
Friday 4:00 p.m. to Sunday 6:00 p.m. 
Towing By Mark's Towing 1505 W. Sample South Bend, IN 46619 
impact on peo­ple," said Gutierres. 
Coleman's caring personali­ty also touched her secretary Arleen Davis, who remembers her boss as "a ray of sun­shine. She took the time to make each one of us feel spe­cial," Davis said. 
Former clients of Coleman who would like to discuss their feelings are invited to stop by the counseling center. 




Friday, November 5, 1999 The Observer . NEWS page 7 
SMC Campus Ministry offers 
gneving serVIces 

Special to The Oh,crvcr 
Hecognizing that grid is universal and occurs al various points during tlin calendar ynar, Saint :vtary's Campus Ministry is offori11)( a monthly prayor service for the grieving. 
Tim lirst imrvice will b,~ offered today at noon in R1•gina Chapel for sluclenls, faculty and stuff wlio arc coping with the loss or a lovnd onCl. 
Traditionally, tlw servic<' was lrnld oncn a y,iar in November, the rncognized mm1th for grief, said l\largarct Carr, liturgical ministries cuordinator. 
"Crhd" hits poophi at diffPrcmt times, and this gives them thB opportunity to takn advantage of a time to cope with it," she said. 
Tlw praynr snrvicn will include community prayer and sign­ing of tlw Book of Hmnembrance, where the names of each cli~cPasrd lovrni onn can he commemoratNI. Hymns. scripture uncl a Lime for rnflection will also be included. Campus Ministry coordinator .ludy Fmm will µreside over tlw survicB. 
"l'eopl<' may ling<'r and talk when the service is owir," Carr said. "This gives them a spocial opportunity Lo pray together." 
Montana governor to lead panel today 
executive director or the center

Special to The Observer 
for Individual Rights. a Washington,Montana Governor Marc 

States'
D.C.-based

Hacicol will hcadli1w the panel think tank. 
for a Notre Dame Law School Rights in the 
The Notresymposium, "States' Hights in 

21st Century
Dame Law

the 21st Cnntury," today at 4 
School . Today, 4 p.m.

p.rn. in tlrn llesburgh Center Auditorium. The symposium is .Journal of . Hesburgh Ctr. 
Legislation is opim to tlw public and all are the host O r Auditoriumwc~lcome. 

the sympo­

.Joining Hacicol on the panel sium, which is being cospon­will Im .fudge Hobert Miller, sored by the law school, Notre
Ir .. of the Federal District 
Dame student government andCourt for thn Northern District the Federalist Society. 

ol' Indiana and Michael Greve, 
ALWAYS AFTER ME LUCKY CHARMS ••• 

ERNESTO LACAYO/The Observer Off-campus Junior Vanessa Vicuna and her box of Lucky Charms study outside Thursday. Today's expected high is 63, with a low of 43. 
Students utilize absentee ballots 
By JASON STEINHARDT 
U-Wire 

WASHINGTON 
As the 2000 presidential race heats up, so does the activity of student groups devoted tci politi­cal activism. With thousands of students many miles from their hometown, the absentee ballot allows students to vote in their 
FIIST SIIIIAR OF TD 11W IIILLlmlJI! 
Travel to exotic, distant lands; meet interesting, unusual people ... 
And love them. 
CATHOLIC WORKER URBAN PLUNGE 
January 2-8, 2000 


Spend 5 days at a Catholic Worker House of Hospitality and find out what it means to live the gospels 
DEADLINE EXTENDED!! Sites include Des Moines, Detroit, Phoenix, Los Angeles, Washington DC, and Houston. Stop by the CSC, get an application, return it by November 7th. 
hometown elections. 
"Generally you must apply to the electoral committee of your home county," said Kimberling, deputy director of election administration at the Federal Election Commission. 
Kimberl~g said the manner in which ballots are counted varies from state to state. 
"ln some states it is counted on election night 
istration. 
Brad Murphy, chairman of the College Republicans at GW, said the College Republicans spend much of the year promoting stu­dent participation. 
"We have sign-up sheets and write down the individual coun­ties of students. We have a list ofevery single county's election board with thciraddress and 
phone number," 

as if it's part of Murphy said. 
"We push voting in no

the regular Murphy said count," he said. matter what form. " the College "Others don't Republicans have that ability generally push­
Lisa Kohnke

and add the for voting in a 
national field director,

total a day or student's home two later." College Democrats of district. as 
Campus orga­America opposed to vot­nizations such ing in the D.C. as the College elections. 
Democrats and College With the March 2000 pri­Republicans devote much of maries approaching. students their efforts toward increasing who are not registered to vote student participation in elec­have to register by the time they tions. return from winter break. 
"We push voting in no matter Murphy said that the College what form," said Lisa Kohnke, Republicans had conferred the_ national field director for extensively with Project Vote College Democrats of America. Smart {www.vote-smart.org), a 
Kohnke said that the number non-partisan Web site that pro­of students who vote either in vides information regarding their campus towns or via local election boards and candi­absentee ballots varies. She also dates from across the country. added that much of the "Vote Smart is where we got Democrats' efforts are focused the list of all the [election at local chapters of the organi­board's! numbers." Murphy zation. Anjan Choudhury, presi­said. "It also gives us access tu dent of the College Democrats at voting records that we can just­George Washington University print out." in Washington, D.C., said his Kimberling said that he had organization works to increase heard rumors of counties not voter registration. counting absentee ballots unless 
"Most people register at their needed to break ties. I le added homes," Choudhury said. "We that those counties did not use try to promote voter registra­the ballots legally. tion." "Absentee ballots arn regular 
Choudhury said they rely on ballots, and they should be the national College Democrats counted like regular ballots," he Web site !www.collegedems.org) said. for material related to voter reg-
Celebrate a birthday with an Observer ad 

page 8 The Observer . ELECTION NEWS Friday, November 5, 1999 
Republicans to debate on Dec. 13 
Associated Press 
DES MOINES, Iowa 
The pace of campaign debates in Iowa quickened Thursday as five Republican presidential rivals agreed to meet in a tele­vised forum Dec. 13. 
Aides to Texas Gov. George 
W. Bush, publisher Steve Forbes, commentator Alan Keyes, activist Gary Bauer and Utah Sen. Orrin Hatch all announced plans to attend. 
Arizona Sen. John McCain, who has decided to bypass Iowa's leadofT caucuses to focus on New Hampshire, also was studying the issue and aides said he likely would show up. 
"We probably wrn do it," said aide Todd Harris, speaking from New Hampshire. "This is important and we want to look at it." 
Bush is the front-runner in the GOP field, leading in both polling and money and his deci­sion to attend the Dec. 13 debate assures that it will get heavy attention and that rivals will attend. 
"I would expect we'll have some company," said Bush spokesman Eric Woolson. 
"We look forward to all of the candidates participating," said Keyes spokeswoman Connie Hair. 
Bush, who has come under fire for not attending some early campaign debates, had said ini­tially that he wouldn't partic­ipate in debates until January. 
Aides said last week he would debate in December and was sorting through the many offers that had been made. 
Speaking with reporters on a conference call, Bush re,iected suggestions he had been pres­sure-el. into debating. 
Bush said the political calen­dar has been in flux and he was simply responding. 
"The process is accelerating, the caucuses have been moved to an earlier date and the process is moving forward," said Bush. 'Tm looking forward to the debate." 
Top Bradley aide donated to Gore 
Associated Press 
ALBANY, N.Y. 
A leader of Bill Bradley's New York campaign team con­tributed $1,000 to Vice President Al Gore's presiden­tial bid in February, according to a review of campaign records Thursday. 
Bradley, a former senator from New Jersey, and Gore are competing for the Democratic presidential nomination. 
Federal Election Commission records show that Michael Del Giudice, co-chairman of Bradley's New York campaign, gave the money to Gore on Feb. 22. Del Giudice, a top aide to Democrat Mario Cuomo when he was governor of New York, is a Wall Street execu­tive. 
"Someone had asked me at the end of the year or the beginning of this year and I did it and that's the last thing I ever did for Clinton-Gore," Del Giudice said Thursday. 
Del Giudice said he could not remember who asked him to make the contribution. 
"I wasn't fully engaged with Bradley and now I'm working flat-out to get Bradley elected president," Del Giudice added. 
"I give to Democrats all the time. It's really no big deal." 
FEC records indicate that Del Giudice is a regular contribu­tor to Democrats. They also show that he gave $1,000 to then-Sen. Alfonse D'Amato's unsuccessful 1998 re-election campaign against Rep. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y. Del Giudice said Thursday that he didn't remember the details of his D'Amato contribution. 


Bush to ignore early La. caucuses 
Associated Press 
DES MOINES, Iowa 
Texas Gov. George W. Bush said Thursday he will ignore caucuses scheduled in Louisiana nine days ahead of Iowa's Jan. 24 precinct caucuses. 
" I ' v e decided not to partic­ipate in any way in t h e Louisiana caucus, and will honor the tradition of Iowa as first in the nation, as well as the tradition of New Hampshire as the first prima­ry," the Republican presiden­tial front-runner said in a con­ference call with Iowa reporters. 
Bush said his position applied to Louisiana's effort and "any other caucus that may be positioning itself to diminish the first-in-the­nation status of I.he Iowa cau­cuses." 
With Bush being a front-run­ner in both the polls and cam­paign money, his decision to skip past Louisiana is a blow to that state's efforts to grab some of the attention that goes along with opening the presi­dential nominating season. 
Republicans in Louisiana have scheduled caucuses for Jan. 15, nine days before Iowa. 
There were questions about the date because of conflicts over voting machines and polling places, but Secretary of State Fox McKeithen said Thursday that the date was firm. 
Publisher Steve Forbes and Sen. Orrin Hatch of Utah and conservative activist Gary Bauer have paid the required $5,000 Louisiana filing fee. 

"It is unfortunate that the governor chooses to begin the 2000 election cycle by pitting one state against the other," Bauer spokesman Tim Goeglein said in a statement. 
Forbes has argued that he has made no decision on actu­ally competing in Louisiana, but had paid the filing fee to keep his options open. 
Louisiana scheduled caucus­es before Iowa and New Hampshire in 1996, but most major candidates ignored them for fear of offending vot­statement. 
ers  in  Iowa  and  New  
Hampshire. That  same  
dynamic  
appears to be  

"He's dodged the debates in New Hampshire and is now trying to destroy our caucus. It's a real shame." 
Iowa Republicans have been asking presidential candidates to steer clear of Louisiana, and Bush said candidates who campaign in that state will have tough questions to answer. 
"I believe that candidates are going to have to explain to the citizens of Iowa why they have chosen to participate in any other caucus that is attempting to supplant Iowa," said Bush. 
"Iowa has a long-standing tradition of being first in the nation and I honor that tradi­tion," said Bush. With 

in place this the front­
"Iowa has a

time as well. runner opt­
McKcithen, long-standing tradition ing out, 

a Republican ofbeing first in the attention who is over­given the
nation and I honor that

seeing the Louisiana
tradition."

caucus, said caucuses is Thursday he likely to was disap­George W. Bush dwindle. pointed, but B u s h
presidential candidate 

not surprised, that Bush decided not to participate. 
"I hate that," he said. "I like George. I think he would ha~e an excellent chance to wm here." 
State party chairman Mike Francis accused Bush of trying to avoid another political con­test and disrupt Louisiana's caucus. 
"This appears to be yet another attempt by Governor Bush's campaign to eliminate any part of the nominating process that requires grass­roots organizing in addition to money." Francis said in a declined to 
offer an 
assessment of his decision on that state. 
"It's hard for me to deter­mine the impact," said Bush. "What I'm concerned about is the impact on the Iowa cau­cuses. I know I made the right decision." 
States traditionally compete for early slots in the campaign calendar because of the media and candidate attention given to those states. 
The jostling was particularly intense this time, with Iowa going through four dates for its precinct caucuses before settling on Jan. 24. 

Employment Opportunity 
ATTENTION COLLEGE STUDENTS 
*Internships *Part Time Employment 
If you are a college student looking for a career related internship, or if you are seeking part time employment, the Loewen Group may be the company for you. The company offers the professional growth, schedule flexibility, and financial rewards you expect. 
We are currently interviewing and accepting 
applicants for the following positions: 
*Sales Associate 
*Sales Management Trainee 
What we off er: 
*Unlimited earning Potential 
*Flexible Work schedule 
*Paid Training 
*Internship Credit (when applicable) 
*Benefits you rarely find with a part time position 
Call Mr. Dennis at 219-234-0036 to schedule an interview. Feel free to fax your resume to 219-234-0038. 
Loewen is an equal opportunity employer. 
Friday, November 5, 1999 The Observer . NEWS page 9 
United States debt threatens General Assembly vote 
By SASCHA MATUSZAK U-Wirc 
MINNEAPOLIS 

The U.S. government, accusnd of bning a deadbeat for not paying its rlw~s. could lose its vote in llw Genr.ral Assembly or the Unitml Nations if its debt isn't paid up by tlrn end of' the yuar. 
According to a United Nations Gnneral t\ccounting Office rnport, tlw United States owes $1.6 billion in back-µaynwnts -much morn than Lim runner­up, Ukraino, which owes $226 million. 
Two piPees of' legislation must pa!>s by tlrn end of thr. ynar for the Unitml Status to pay its dues on limP and nol l<1se the t;nnnral Assnmhly voto. 
Tho first, tlrn Commerce, .I usticu, State and .Judicial Appropriations Bill. was vetor.d hy l'rusidcnt Clinton 011 Oct. 26. Tlw bill containml significantly IPss than Clinton n•q1wstml and included a rider rr.quiring U.S. approval of llrn U.N. budget lll'f'orn an additional $100 mil­lion would bo released. 
The second piece of legisla­tion, the State Oepartment Authorization Bill, has been struck down in the past by Hep. Chris Smith, H-New Jersey. Smith objects to the f'unding of 
U. N. agencies that support or advocate abortion in other C{]Untries. 
"This sends the message that absolutism in anti-abortion pol­itics is more important than 
U.S. international treaty obliga­tions," said Phyillis Bennis, a fellow at the Institute for Policy Studies. 
In This Corner 
Each nation must pay the 
U.N. duos according to that nation's gross domestic prod­uct. The more a country makes, tlw more it has lo pay. 
The United States, with about one-third of the world's GDP, pays 25 percent of the $2.5 bil­lion U.N. budget. 
Even thn most conservative estimate of the U.S. ddJt -the State Department says $719 million -is ,mough lo risk los­ing the General Assembly vote, according to Article 19 of the United Nations Charter. The article states that any nation owing more than two years worth of dues loses its vote. 

Ironically, a 1961 U.S. law denies aid to any country violat­ing Article 19. 
The United Nations contends that its financial conf1ict with tho Unitnd States is an old one. in which the United States has attempted to gain leverage by withholding funds. 
During the 1980s, the Reagan administration encouraged withholding U.N. dues to force reforms, such as lowering the budget. decreasing the number of Sf'crctariat members and creating an under-secretary general of management. a posi­tion traditionally fillod by an American. 
"!The tacticl was based on a Heritage Fund report which stated that tlrn Unitr.d States could increase its power by owing the largest amount of dues," Bennis said. "It worked well." 
The United Nations complied with tlrn U.S. demands for 
Frances Moore Lappe, Author 
Building Comrnunity Means Building Power 

Come hear Frances Moore Lappe author of and/or co-author of 12 books including Diet for aSmall etanct. Rediscovering America's Values and I.hf. Quickening of America: Rebuilding our Nation. Remaking our Lives, and co-founder of the Food and Development Policy and the Center for Living Democracy. 
fR:\i\CE.i MOllRf lmi rAuLMAiU!!-!DUBOIS 
-lr-lu1cK£NING­
~ ~_Al,IERICA fil 


: •..... r 
~ 
-
il,•• 
\ . 
'
. 
.
I
.. ~ . 
.•. 
.--. 
csc 
C E N T E R F O R 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

reform, cutting 12 percent of its General Assembly vote. bureaucracy and maintaining a "It's become counterproduc­zero-growth budget since 1993. tive for lthe United States) to said Jessica Jiji, spokeswoman withhold the money," said Don for the secretary general. Krauss, executive director of 
"[The United States] still has the Campaign for U.N. Reform. not paid," she said. "We've been using the stick for 
To pay peacekeeping costs, a decadr.; now we need to use the United Nations has been the carrot." forced to borrow from the fund meant to reimburse member-states who provide troops and ...And In This Corner services for U.N. missions. The But the U.S. government countries providing the help -argur.s that the United Nations mostly poor nations from the actually owes them money. global south -must then wait According to a U.S. General to be paid. Accounting Office report, the 
"When the U.S. refuses to pay United States spent more than its dues. the poor countries pay $6.6 billion to support Haiti, the the price," 11ennis said. former Yugoslavia, Rwanda and 
The United Nations also risks Somalia from 1992 to 19%. shutting down important agen.1 ,. 1,, Hep. Hoscoc Bartlett, H­
cies and committees if th0,re is no funding. 
"We would all be dealing with polio. tuberculosis and all sorts of other diseases if it wr.ren't for the U.N.," .Jiji said. 
The advantage of wielding leverage over the world body might not balance out the con­sequences of' the loss of international prestige and the 
t·.'. i~
'1• .,
'· 

This lecture is sponsored by the Andrews McMeel Universal Foundation 
& 
The Center for Social Concerns 
THIS EVENT IS FREE AND OPEN TO THE PUBLIC 
Maryland, also cites a Congressional Research Service report that said the Unit~d Statr.s spent more than $11 b1l­lion from 1992 to 1997. 
"If we owe them dues, I ask that they pleasr subtract those dues from our peacekeeping expenditures," Bartlett said. ":Ve have spent billions and ~il­hons on U.N. peacekeeprng 
expenses; we don't mied to give the U.N. $1 billion when they owe us many timns that amount." 
But the United Nations argues that this spending involves uni­lateral missions launched by the United States to further its own interests. These missions were never under U.N. com­mand. 
"I can't imagine when we went on a mission out of our own selfish national-security interests," Bartlett said. "Most of these missions are in some­body else's backyard." 
The United States also accus­es shoddy U.N. management for the current budget crisis. 
The other important issue for Congress is the possibility that 
U.S. funds might indirectly sup­port abortion in other coun­tries. 
The United Nations contends they have never supported abortion. Jiji said the U.S. tac­tics arc backfiring by eliminat­ing important support for con­traceptives and sex education. 
The Consequences 
The only means the United Nations has to punish a dead­beat nation is through Article 
19. Normally this would suffice. but the United States sits on the Security Council, the decision­making body of the United Nations. The United States therefore possesses veto power 
ver any action presented to the council for approval. 
"Our vote in the General Assembly means nothing," Bartlett said. "Nothing will change if they strip us of that vole." 
But the United States would lose the confidence of the world community, along with any influence ovor the structure of the U.N. budget, which is decid­ed by the Assembly. 
"It will color any negotiations anvwhere in the world ... and ... shake the entire underpinning of the international system," Krauss said. 
The United Nations-United States relationship has grown more antagonistic over time, but in coming years, the United States· need for international approval and the United Nations' need for money should tie the two powers together. 
"The U. N. clearly needs us; we're their cash cow," Bartlett said. 


page 10 The Observer . NEWS Friday, November 5, 1999 
Dole Food Co. reports 
loss, plans layoffs 
Associated Press 
WESTLAKE VILLAGE, Calif. 
Dole Food Co. Inc. announced Thursday it will eliminate 1,500 jobs and ter­minate contracts affecting thousands more in Central America in a worldwide restructuring forced by weak European banana sales and the devastation of Central American operations by Hurricane Mitch. 
The restructuring, which fol­lows an $8 million third-quar­ter loss, will include thousands of lost jobs in Central America as well as layoffs of sales and distrihution employees in Europe. 
The company said it also plans to sell non-corn and underperforming assets, a move that could generate $100 million to $200 million over the next 18 months. A review to identify those assets is under way, tho company said. 
The downsizing will elimi­nate about 1,500 staff posi­tions, including 300 in Europe. Dole also will terminate con­tracts with independent sup­pliers who employ another 7,500 people throughout Dole's Central America banana operations, said Gil Borok, a company spokesman. 
Dole, Chiquita Brands International and Fresh Del Monte Produce Inc. have been struggling for months with the cost of Mitch's destruction and the collapse of European banana prices. ,i;i;-, 
Dole, the world's biggest supplier of fresh fruit, vegeta­bles and flowers, said its third­quarter loss equaled 14 cents per share and compared with profits of $15.6 million, or 26 cents per share, a year ago. 
It reported a loss from con­tinuing operations was $1.9 million, or 3 cents per share. The rest of its $8 million net loss came primarily from the cost of rebuilding operations damaged by Mitch. 
The loss on continuing oper­ations met the average esti­mate by analysts surveyed by First CalVfhompson Financial. 
The October 1998 hurricane killed at least 8,500 people in Nicaragua, Guatemala, El Salvador and Honduras. 
Rebuilding is largely done, but problems in the banana market remain and could con­linue to plague Dole and the 
other major U.S. producers .• 
with operations in Latin America. The destruction wasn't enough to reduce a world oversupply of bananas -which has been pushing down prices for months. 
"There's just too many bananas, so you have to cut production." said Nomi Ghez, an analyst with Goldman, Sachs & Co. "Dole is saying their banana production jusL isn't as good as they thought a few years ago and they want to reduce their exposure." 
Investors welcomed news of the restructuring, trading Dole shares up 50 cents to $17.69 on the New York Stock 
'"'Exchange. 
Dole's problems 1n Europe result from Russia's economic' problems, which have hurt sales, and by a European Union decision to increase the number of banana import licenses issued during the first nine months of 1999. That resullcd in an oversupply that drove prices down. 
U.S. companies contend the union EU former European colonies that compete in the banana market with Dole and Chiquita. 
"It is regrettable that we must downsize our banana business to this extent, but we must be realistic in assessing the current overproduction existing in Latin America," said David Murdock, Dole's chairman and chief executive. 
Earlier this year, the World Trade Organization ruled EU restrictions on imports from 
U.S. companies were illegal and it authorized the Clinton administration to impose $191 million in punitive tariffs against European products entering the United States. 

actual Vietna.rn War experiences of six American women. 
Thursday -Saturday November 11 -13 at8p.m. Sunday, November 14 at2:30 p.m. Little Theatre 
IM~~c__~THE "!ff§, 
~NOnt•~III 
Box Office at 
284-4626 

Crude oil, othe.r energies up 
Associated Press 
Crude oil prices jumped 3 percent Thursday on the New York Mercantile Exchange on expectations of heavy demand for North Sea oil in Europe. 
Other energy commodities also were mostly higher. In other markets, cocoa fell 2 percent to nearly match a seven-year low and soybeans gained. 
Oil prices remained volatile despite a lack of major news to drive the market. Analysts said the most significant development was the report­ed purchase by at least one big oil company of large amounts of North Sea Brent crude, drawing new attention to rising seasonal demand and supply disruptions in Europe. 
The market also got support from news that Venezuela's energy and mines minister. Ali Rodriguez, said OPEC and non-OPEC leading oil produc­ers might extend their pro­duction cuts past the March 2000 deadline. 
Continued unity by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries in stick­ing to lower production levels has sent prices soaring this 
• 

Visit The Observer online: observer. nd.edu 
l 
Apowerful drama based on the 
year. Petroleum Exchange. 
George Beranek, an oil ana­On New York's Coffee, lyst for Petroleum Finance Co. Sugar and Cocoa Exchange, in Washington, said that cocoa plunged back to near a despite the rise over $23 a seven-year low it set earlier barrel, crude isn't likelv to this week as a huge Ivory 
approach the · $25 level any time soon. 
"/ think there are going
"I think 
to be enough signs of
there arc going to be additional oil that it will enough signs 
keep the strength from 
of additional 
building up..,
oil that it will keep the strength George Beranek 
from build­
oil analyst
ing up," he s a i d ''There's an expectation that high prices would _just pull additional OPEC barrels into the market." 
Crude l'or December deliv­ery rose 58 cents to $23.14 a barrel; December heating oil rose .96 cent to 61.47 cents a gallon; December unleaded gasoline rose .93 cent to 
64.35 .cents a gallon; December natural gas fell 4. 7 cents to $2.826 per million British thermal units. 
In London, North Sea Brent crude for December delivery rose 28 cents to $22.85 a bar­rel on the International 
TRED 
RTME 
w Leasin 
-s from Campus 
.t Value In Off Campus 
ofessionally Managed by 
IEstate Management Corp~i 
234-9923 
800,000 and 1 million terns or even higher. December cocoa fell $19 to $836 per ton. 
Soybean futures advanced on the Chicago Board of Trade, nudged upward by rumors that Russia is in the market for soymeal. 
Prices also were supported by a lack of farmer selling even with the U.S. soybean harvest virtually completed. 
January soybeans rose 3 1/2 cents to $4.85 :v4 a bushel. Grains trading in the Chicago BOT were little 
changed. 
Coast har­vest pro­g r e s s e d without problems. 
November rains in the West African nation have boosted prospects for a crop esti­mated to be between 
• 

IU GIi IVICll 
¦ 
INSJANI SHOPIHCAllUN. 


Friday, November 5, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Bill offers poor nations debt relief 
WAS! IINGTON 

Tim !louse Banking Committee approved a bill aimed at sharply reducing debts of llrn world's poorest countries 
so Limy can 
use tlrn 
m n n e y 
savprf to fighL povnr­ly. 
The mna­
surn is 11xp1ictf'd to sorvo as n vehicle for negotiations over the next few days between tho Clinton administration and Congress to sncurn suhstantial lrnlp for thn clnbt reliuf initiative spon­so rnd by the l11ternatio11al Mmwtary Fund and the World Bank. Thu committee apµrnv1\d the bill Wndnesday night. 
Treasury Secrntary Lawrence Summers today wel­comml tlrn committee's dPci­sion. 
"The bipartisan action is an important step forward toward making llm his~orical interna­tinn al initiative for highly indebted poor countrins a real-


Associateil Press 
SPHINGFIELD, Ill. 

Sherry (;raham works two jobs at restaurants. She sh<ips for bargains on rlothns for.her two sons at Wal-Mart or (;oodwifl. Every dollar counts. 
Now c;raham 's budget is bning slretchml twen tighter -thanks lo govnrnmonl tllTorts to make lrnr life oasi­
<'r. 
llnr last lwo twice-monthly child-support chncks have not lrnen delivered by the rww slatP office that is sup­posr.d to handle chr.cks morP. 11fficin11tly -a problem faced by lens or thousands or fami­lios around lhn country. 
Tim 1'1\dcral gov er nm ent has rPq uirnd statns to install new comput11r systems and crnate cnntral offices for pro­r.nssing checks, rather than continuing to rnly on county 
Clinton, Republicans near foreign aid deal 
WASHINGTON Palestinians comply with the 

The Clinton administration Wye River peace accord they 
and congressional Hepublicans reached last year. 
were on thP. verge of a deal Linda Ricci, spokf\SWoman for 
Thursday night on a foreign aid the White House Office of 
bill in a Management and Budget, said 
b r e a k -administration officials viewed 
through the GOP proposal as "a good-
both sides faith offer." She added: 
t h i n k "There is discussion going 
would help on." 
s p e e d Sandy Berger, the president's 
agreement national security adviser, 
on their appealed to congressional 
remaining Republicans to help reverse the 
budget dis-Clinton decline in spending on interna­
putes. tional programs. 
The two sides agreed to add "We need to invest in the pro­
$799 million to the $12.7 billion grams that keep our soldiers 
foreign aid package President ..,out of war -that prevent con­
Clinton vetoed on Oct. 18 but flicts, promote freedom, boost 
were still working on details, prosperity, light terrorism and 
said aides speaking on condition drugs, mcot our share of global 
ofanonymity. responsibilities and bring 
Republicans started the day friends and allies to our side," 
by offering to acid $761 million he said in a speech. 
-twice as much as their pro-Congressional aides said that 
posal Wednesday night-while even if an agreement were 
thP \i\'hite House had asked for reached Thursday, Congress 
$956 million. probably could not vote on the 
The Clinton administration measure until at least Friday. 
has made agreement on the for-If the talks soured, 
eign aid bill the keystone for Republicans had been consider­
settling disputes on the other ing a House vote on a version of 
four remaining spending bills the foreign aid bill resP.mbling 
for the new fiscal year. the one Clinton vetoed -but 
Remaining disagreements including the $1.8 billion for include Clinton proposals to Wye River. But in a sign of hire teachers and police officers progress, GOP aides ~aid forcing and pay late U.N. dues, and that vote -which would GOP provisions helping mining, enrage Democrats -seemed timber and other Western unlikely. industries the White House says That strategy had angered would hurt the environment. Democrats because it threat-
GOP leaders would like to· ened to divide them. The 
complete the budget bargaining American Israel Public Affairs 
in time to let Congress adjourn Committee, perhaps the most 
for the year by Wednesday. powerful pro-Israel lobbying 
"They think they can work it group in Washington, was urg­out," House Majority Leader ing lawmakers to support that Dick Armey, R-Texas, said of version of the bill, but the White GOP bargainers. House said it would bo vetoed. 
The agreement would mark Leaving the foreign aid bill for the latest in which Republicans last would let Republicans, who have moved substantially have little taste for foreign aid. toward Clinton's spending delay the measure and accuse demands. In return, the two Clinton of wanting to spend sides have been agreeing to Social Security surpluses to help savings they say would avoid foreigners, Democrats say. using Social Security surpluses Evidence of that strategy was to finance federal programs. provided by some angry out-
The GOP offer would raise the bursts on the !louse floor. foreign aid bill's total for "The White House only wants international debt relief by $90 at this point in time to give the million to $123 million, about taxpayers' money away to for­one-third of what the adminis-eign countries and be damned tration wants. Republicans also what happens here at home," offered extra money for Africa, said Rep. Harold Rogers, H-Ky. the Peace Corps, loans by "If you want to go home, I international banks, disaster aid suggest you act like it" and bar-· and other programs. gain seriously, Hep. David Obey, 
White House officials were D-Wis., top Democrat on the trying to win additional dollars. House Appropriations for overseas economic aid, U.S. Committee, responded later. financial contributions to U.N. Amid the positioning, the peacekeeping efforts, and help House voted 417 to 6 to approve for former Soviet republics, a temporary measure keeping aides said. agencies working through the 
Republicans have agreed to budget fight. The Senatn did the fully fund Clinton's request for same by voice vote, sending it to an additional $1.8 billion to Clinton for his expected signa­help Israel, Jordan and the ture. 
The {lniYersily of :'\otre Dame Departmenl of \lusic presents 

l\1onday, Nove1nber 8, 1999 

8:00 pin, Hesburgh Library Auclitorirnn Free and open to the public. 
For more infi.mnation, call 631-620 I or Yisit www.nd.edu,r musir. 
ity in the Jubilee [2000J year," Summers said in a statement. 
''In the days ahead, we look forward to continuing this urgent work with the Congress in the final budget discussions now under way." 
The initiative has attracted the support of an unusual global coalition ranging from politicians and p(iverty-fight­ing groups to Pope .John Paul 

International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and other development agencies. 
The administration also seeks authorization to forgive $330 million of direct bilateral aid the poor nations owe the United Slates. Sponsored by Rep. Jim Leach. R-lowa, and Hep. John LaFalce, D-N.Y., the debt-relief bill was approved by a 23-16 vote. Its objective is 

II. other reli­gious l1rnd­ers and U2 
"The bipartisan action is 
rock star 
Bono, who an important step 
met with forward toward makingHouse 
the historical 
1'vlajority 
Leader Did international initiative 
Armey, H­for highly indebted poor Texas, and 
countries a reality in the
other law­makers on Jubilee [2000] year." Capitol llill todav. 
Lawrence Summers 
Tl1e adrnin­
Treasury Secretary
i strati on wants $370 million from 
offices. The goal is to create a nationwide network that can sham information ancl track clown deadbeats more easily. 
But the changes have creat­e cl problems in about 10 states as computer programs malfunction or clerks fail to provide thn proper informa­tion to deliver checks. Florida, N()rth Carolina, Tennesser., Illinois, Hawaii and Nevada experienced the most problems. 
In fact, only two of the eight largest states -New York and Pennsylvania ­have made the changes with relatively few problems. The rest either have encountered glitches that delayed thou­sands of checks or have not yet installed the new systems. 
Among the problems: 
. Thousands of Nevada checks were delayed by a new computer system whose 

to ease the debt of as many as 45 
of the 
world's poorest nations, 
most  of  
them  in  
Africa.  

To quali­fy, these countries would have to be pursu­ing sound economic policies. · 
But the 
Congress this year to help pay the U.S. share of an interna­tional nlTort to reduce as much as $90 billion in debt Lhat poor countries owe rich nations. the measure does not tie U.S. deci­sion-making on bilateral debt relief to the approval of the IMF or any other international institution. 

Changes delay child support 
$22.6 million price has bal­looned to more than $100 million. 
. 
North Carolina has pro­vided .nearly $5 million in emergency payments to fami­lies who could not wait any lnnger. Illinois has done the same on a smaller scale, and Tennessee is considering a similar arrangement. 

. 
Checks were delayed so long in Hawaii that a class­action lawsuit has been filed by parents who want the interest the state collected while the drncks were sitting undelivenid. 

. 
Florida is experiencing delays, even though some of its biggest counties, including the Miami area, are not even included yet in the central­ized system. 


"This is a huge undertak­ing," said Beth Allman, spokeswoman for the Florida Association of Court Clerks. 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 12 BSERVER Friday, November 5, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
11u J,,,i~}'trtdrnl, Da,ly N,nmp•p.u S-l!ntint Notu Damr ,.,,dSairtt M.,,ry'1 
P.O. Box Q. Norro Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CUIEF Michelle Krupa 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogero  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Petelle  

NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen SPORTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler 
SCENE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalum 
ADVE.RTl5!NG MANAGER: Bryan Lutz 
An DESIGN MANAGER: Brer Huelar SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushto 
CONTROLLER: Timothy Lane GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0.............. 631-7471 
FAX............................................................. 63\ ..6927 
ADVERTISING.......... ..................631-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF.... .. ...........................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORfAsST. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS ..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinr. J@nd.edu 
SPORTS.............................. ..........................631-4543 
observer .sports. l@nd.edu SCENE.. .................. ............................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAJNT MARY'S........ ..........................631-4324 
observer.smc. J@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTF.MS/WEB ADMINISTRAttlRS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE q.,_ Visit our Web site at Jmp:llobseroer. ndedu for daily updares ofcampus news, spores, features a,;d opinion columns, as well as canoons, reviews and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up .. to-che 
movies/music fur 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
online features for spe­
advertise for policies 
cial campus coverage 
and rates of print ads 
about The Observer
archives co search for 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe scudenrs of the University ofNorre Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary•s College. Editorial conrenr. including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither insticurion. The Observer reserves the right 10 refuse adverrisements based on conrent. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors.~ Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lerters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Q=tiom regarding Observerpolicies should be direct.. d to Editor m ChiefMichelle Krupa. 


We need not worry about Y2K 
As the millennium approarhes, the ill effects of the Y2K virus are foremost on our minds. As presented in the media, the virus will shut down computers and computer chips that are essential to the running of factories, utilities, cars, businesses, machines and 
Jeffrey Langan 
much, much more. 

Y2K will poten­tially lead to a breakdown of Lula's Journal major utilities and financial centers. We could lose our lleating, electricity .and plumbing. The stock exchange might shut down. Banks will be unable to fix their inter­est rates. The IRS won't be able to col­lect. This will lead to economic col­lapse, political turmoil, violence, rioting in the streets and looting. As I heard on the radio yesterday, perhaps the biggest threat of all, it may even lead to computers in our schools breaking down, causing teachers to actually have to teach once again. (Apparently, many Chicago-area public high schools are not Y2K compliant.) 
Few, however, have looked on the bright side of the Y2K problem. For one, it might render TV irrelevant, oh happy day! In fact, a little reflection on what the virus might do to society will teach us what we should actually do to welcome the millennium -take the year off. More mildly put, there are many things that we could actually do to welcome the millennium that think­ing about the Y2K problem might help us see. Facing up to Y2K might actually help us really live what a Jubilee year entails. 
To begin, we have recently seen, and we will probably see more in the upcoming months, the European Union and some American congressmen advo­cate debt relief for third world rnun­tries. This is a noble cause based on a biblical teaching that during the Jubilee year that comes once every 50 years all debts ought to be forgiven. 
But these politicians have too nar­rowed the Jubilee year requirements. Two others come to mind: letting the fields lie fallow (translation: taking the year om, and giving back all land pur­chased in the past 50 years to its origi­nal owners. In particular, taking the year off has great social benefits. The first is no less than avoiding the need to have a functioning economy for a year. If you plan on taking the year 2000 off, the breakdowns caused by Y2K will not stop you from carrying out your plans. 
Taking the year off would also have good effects on this particular society. We woi:k too much an.c;l .for the wrong reasons. The sociological and psycho­logical evidence is endless. We put too much pressure on ourselves to succeed, to be the best, to be No. 1. This does not have good consequences for our souls. It simply is not a good prepara­tion for eternal life. It also happens to have fairly bad consequences for those who are only concerned about this life. For example, the popular approach to work does not seem to lead to personal satisfaction or healthy families. Taking the year off would almost force us to contemplate a bit who we are and what we really want to do with our lives as individuals and as a society. 
What could we do while taking the year off? The list is endless. Ideally, we could do things that we often neglected during the past 50 years (and more) as individuals and as society. Things that counter our obsessive concern for money. In our American government classes, almost all the textbooks pre­sent Americans as concerned about their economic security. Did you ever notice that at the same time America is one of the wealthiest countries in the world, has one of the largest middie classes and is capable of financing the most debt? Financially, we are extremely powerful. At the same time, we are the most worried about money. We could do things that perhaps we should already do anyway. Pay morn attention to our family, friends and neighbors. 
We could do more creative things for a year. We could put on a play in our neighborhood or learn how to drink good wine. We could take the time to learn how to play an instrument or something of that nature. 
In other words, the idea is not to take the year off and do nothing; the idea is to take the year off from the normal dehumanizing life we often subject our­selves to and to do things that make us more human. Perhaps if we do that for a year, we will be able to make the next 50 years more tolerable than the past 
.50. .:!. ' . • 
Next, we should give back land to its original owners. This too, would have good benefits for society. Every one is worried about how people are going to live when Y2K hits. If we make all the corporations and monopolies give back the land to the original owners, then people will have something to live off. They won't need the to rely so much on others for eating. They could, at very least, hunt and gather food. 
Giving the land back would solve other social problems. We are a society of fat people. In addition, too many of us have limp wrists from too much computer use. We could all use a good diet. We also could all use some real labor. Going back to the land would force us to work for our food. That would enable those of us who are fat to lose a few pounds and everyone else could toughen up a bit. 
So next time you start worrying about Y2K, reconsider the problem. There might be seldom thought of benefits behind what you think to be impending doom. 
Jeffrey Langan is a graduate student in the department ofgovernment. His column appears every other Friday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 

SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
.·:4 group ofpoliticians deciding to dump a president because his morals are bad is like the Majia getting together to bump off the Godfather for not going to church on Sunday." 
Russell Baker New York Times, 1974 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 
Friday, November 5, 1999 BSERVER page 13 
Rakowski presents helpful argument 
Professor .lames Rakowski's Scpl. 30 letter put forward a thought experiment that involvnd six situations ol' income distribution and pri­orilizcd among thr 
siluations using tlrn philosoplwr John Hawls. llo concluded by ask­ing how Catholic tnaching might prioritizri. 
The thought experiment is quitn hPlp('ul because it moves 
Whitmore 
the ronvnrsation awav from the falst; opposition Tlte Common l.wtwccn the con­Good 


corns ror the rich-poor gap (distribu­tive justice) and the produc­tion of w1mlth in the market (commutative justice). Both Bawls and Catholic social teaching hold that both tlm rich-poor gap and tho pro­duction of wealth am morally significant. Them are some difform1ces, however. 
Hakowski's six hypothetical distributions am the follow­ing: 
Situation /\: Hich person $10, poor person $2. Siluation B: Hich pmson $11. poor person $1. Situation C: Hkh pnrson $1 :i, poor person $1. Situation D: Hich person $11. poor person $4. Situation E: IUch person $13, poor person $4. Situation F: Hich person $6, poor pnrson $1. 
As I mad Hakowski's order­ings, they go like this: 1l E, 2) D, 3) A, 4) C, 5) B. 6) F. "A" is higlrnr than "B" or "C" because the gap is smaller and the rich seem well enough off, "although this case is slightly problematic since C represents a total higher income for society." /\II things bning equal for the poor, when the rich are bet· ter off, that's better. Thus E would also be higher than D. 
Hakowski's suggestion that Catholic teaching's emphasis on the rich-poor gap might !Pad it lo select F over E or A wrongly presupposes that any emphasis on tlw gap means no concern for overall wealth. On the contrary, on those particular rankings, the tHaching would concur with Hawls. 
Them are thrm1 key ways in which tho teaching is differ­Pnl rrnm llawls, and these makf\ for som,iwhat dil'li.irent rankings. First, Catholic teaching is morn empirically inl'ormrd and oriented limn Hawls, who tPnds to use tlwughl experiments of the sort Hakowski offors. Sticond. Catholic teaching is world­wide in its focus. While Hawls al lirst viewed his theory as univorsal, ho has moro recently acknowledged that it applios best to countrios like nm own. Third, Catholic teaching has an objectivo the­ory or llrn social good; Hawls at lwst has what he calls a "thin" theory of the good, arguing that it i,; irrational and socially destructive to try to put forward something more. 
How do these three ditTer­em:es apply to the priorilics? In two ways. First, 
billion in assets, 
earned a $3 million 
salary in 1997. Women in 
Nike factories in China make 
19 cents an hour working 
upwards of 60 hours per 
week. Even if we set aside 
Knight's investment income 
and count only the salary, the 
ratio is around 7,063 to 1. ' Companies like Disney yield 
similar ratios. From this per­
spective, a 15-1 ratio is at 
best quaint and at worst 
severely mislf!ading. An 
approach following Catholic 
teaching would have 
described the options more in 
keeping with the empirical 
realities. 
The second difference is 
this: Rakowski seems to order 
E over D and C over B 
because while the poor are at 
the same level in each com­
parison, there is "total higher 
income for society" because 
the rich have more income. 
My sense is that he is reading 
Rawls right because the rich 
are better able to pursue 
their own understanding of 
the good, which includes the 
accumulation of significant 
wealth. But from a Catholic 
perspective, whether E is bet­
ter than D depends on what 
the well-olT are doing with 
the extra income. 
If it is simply for more per­
sonal consumption beyond 
the plenty they already have, 
then E is a worse option, 
because such excessive per­
sona! consumption is objec­
tively evil. John Paul II calls 
such a "consumer attitude" a 
"crass materialism" that is an 
"abuse of freedom." If the 
increased wealth is used for 
the common good, then Eis 
objectively better than D. 
A prioritization informed by 
Catholic teaching, then, 
would look like the following: 
1)E or D, depending on how 
the rich use their increased 
wealth, 2) A, '.~) C or R 
depending on how the rich 
use their increased wealth, 4) 
F. 5) C (Hich person: 7,0fi3 or more, poor person: 1 or less). 
Todd Dauid Whitmore is the 
director ofthe program in 
Catholic Social Tradition and 
an associate professor in 
theology. llis column appears 
every other Friday. 
The uiews expressed in this 
column are those of the 
author and not necessarily 
those ufThe Observer. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
WVFI policy change will take time 

I am writing this Jetter in response to one of our "fans" that was writing to criticize the Administration for "pulling the plug" on WVFI. After broadcasling on 640 AM, not 660 AM, for over 20 years the station along with the trans­mitters that were necessary to broadcast our signal over carrier current became completely run down. Carrier current is a form of AM broadcasting that sends a broadcasting signal through cables and transmitters that would run from Larortunc to the dorms and through their electrical outlets. While this system worked 15 years ago, once students began bringing TV's, VCR's, computers or anything else that needed an outlet, the signal became distorted and the quality of the broadcast deteriorated. 
When WVFI closed down last year. only four dorms on campus were able to pick up the signal. After shut­ting down, the execu­tive board decided to invest in the Internet, rather than putting more money into an ancient and outdated form of broadcasting -carrier current. 
llowever, there was a catch when we asked the University if it would be okay to use the funds provided for us to pursue this new endeavor. Obviously, they agreed to let us broadcast over the Internet. However, they also stated that we would only be allowed to broadcast to "students" since that was our audience with the former carrier cur­rent. In other words, this agreement would confine our audience to campus wide access with the possibility of 
ff d
99 o -campus stu ents being able to also listen. 
When we began to broadcast throughout cyberspace in September, for some reason or another the program that was to block any lis­teners outside of the Notre Dame system was not implemented. Therefore, for over a month and a half, WVFI was broadcasting globally to anyone on the Internet. 
When this was finally realized by the adminis­tration two weeks ago, they immediately imple­mented the program as mentioned in the origi­nal agreement. While the University does acknowledge the capabilities Internet broad­casting can provide (WVFI producing Notre Dame's largest broadcast ever each weekend as students call every football game) they do feel that the station should represent the image of the University, which WVFI has had a problem doing in the past. 
However, with an invigorated, dedicated and professional staff that the station now operates with, problems usually associated with "shock programming" that often include swearing and inappropriate dialogue by DJ's has been left 
behind to concentrate on spinning the latest college music and updating students of local 
upcoming events. 
The main reason why the station has been confined to students is because that was what had been prnviously discussed and not for rea­sons such as inappropriate material. The staff does not really see this as a step back but as something that was inevitable. While, yes, wo were broadcasting globally for a month and a half. we believe that WVFI generated a sub­stantial amount of credibility during this time. You could say that we wern tested by this global experience and by the University and finished 
the final with an A. 
Instead of complaints, letters of encouragement and disbelief of the trans­formation of the station were sent to the studio. We also received an incredible amount of press from The Observer to the Scholastic to Fox News who talked about our new capabilities and quality programming. 
While WVFI still has a Jong hill to climb, the foun­dation has been set to become a real force on the college radio scene. The purpose of this letter is not to suggest that the station is content about the situa­tion. however, there is a professional and correct way to deal with the University's administra­tion. You just cannot walk into Father [Mark] Poorman's office and demand that things get changed pronto. 
If you want something to change at this University it takes time. Take for exam­ple how this University used to be all-male or how there existed mandatory 
study periods at night along with curfews. Do 
you honestly believe that these decisions which 
would in turn elTect the image of the school 
were changed overnight? The answer is no. Currently, a proposal to Student Affairs is 
being put together by the entire staff of WVFI. 
It will include reasons and evidence such as let­
ters from alumni and students describing why 
WVFI should once again broadcast globally. As stated above, WVFI, or the Voice of the Fighting Irish, is a radio station run for and by Notre Dame students. If you want an opportuni­ty to become involved in one of the University's fastest changing organizations now is your chance. We are located in 200 LaFortune and all are welcome to stop by. 
John Forgash 
Senior WVFI Station Manager November 3, 1999 
the worst case sce­nario in the thought expcrimont is C: Rich person $15, poor person $1. llowever, if tht1 approach is more empirical and worldwide, the pic­ture is different. If we look at Nike, !'or instance, we find that Phil Knight, in addition to owning more than one-third of the company's $4 

Letters to the Editor must be signed and include contact information. They may not exceed 400 words. 




E 
D
w cen_eN 
O
THE BSERVER Friday, November 5, 1999 
Cozy Italian hideaway 
By AMANDA GRECO Assistant Scene Editor 
So maybe some peo­ple are a bit spoiled, perhaps even biased, when it comes to Italian food. Good Italian grand­mas make sure their grandkids have nothing but the tastiest traditional foods. With this in mind, some might be a bit skeptical about the quality of 
a supposed Italian restaurant in this area. However, Samuel Mancino's Italian Eatery, with its quaint title, exceeds expectations. 
Nestled snuggly in the middle of a typical strip mall, the exterior fai;ade of this building belies the lit­tle diner's representation of Italy. The interior walls are lined with high backed wooden benches and there is more seating in the center of the room. The tables are cov­ered in red and white checkered tablecloths that bring to mind dresses worn by little girls in Sicily. The hanging plants, low 
lights and beautiful pictures of Italy on the walls are all very nice touches. 
Perhaps this is too generous a description. This is not your nice, sit-down dinner place. Rather, it's a place your order at the window and play video games while you wait type of food joint. It may not appeal to 
those higher Epicureans, but -f.,-the college kid looking for ··· .~od food Qn a lo:w budget, ·'it's a great place to eat. 
A slight miscommunication revealed that the people who worked there are genuinely nice. A customer had called prior to arriving to make sure she could use her cred ­it card, but upon arrival, learned that the machine 

Service with a smile 
was broken. She had no other form of payment with her. The man behind the counter offered the suggestions of 
ittATM or personal check and was not the least bit put off when she told him she would have to leave and return with more money. He held her order and threw it in the oven as 


soon as she returned. He then apologized profusely for the inconvenience the broken credit card machine had caused. He addressed everyone by his or her first name and was generally very jovial. Everyone in the diner knew one another personally, which provided a very familiar feeling. 
The food is brought to the table quickly and is piping hot. The specialty at this eatery is a sandwich they call 'The Grinder." It's a variation on the traditional sub, available in eight-and 16-inch lengths for the individual, or two-, four-, or six-foot sections for large groups (phone order in 24 hours ahead for these monsters). 
Though some may think their taste buds are very dis­cerning, it must be remembered that dining hall food low­ers many palates' expectations. The food here is much bet­ter than anticipated. The barbecue beef Grinder and ham and cheese Grinder come highly recommended. The bread is the best (sorry, Grandmas), baked fresh daily right in Samuel's eatery! 
Besides the food being great in taste, it is very reason­able in price. The soft drinks are refillable aud the 
Grinders come with chips. Samuel's also offers a wide vari­ety of appetizers, pizzas, and twenty-one different Grinders. This eatery provides friendly service, tasty food, good prices, and the best little bit of Italy you're bound to find in any Indiana strip mall. For those of us with Italia:n Grandmas, they can rest assured that though the dining halls may be disap­pointing at times,
there is no lack of 
decent Italian food in the South Bend area. 
Samuel Mancino's Italian Eatery 
. Location: St. Andrew's Plaza, 
620 W. Edison Rd., Mishawaka 
. Phone: 254-9533 
. 
Hours: 

11 a.m. -9 p.m., Mon.-Thurs. 11 a.m. -11 p.m., Fri. -Sat. 11 a.m. -8 p.m., Sun. 

. 
Atmosphere **** 

. 
Food Quality ***** 


. Price ***** 
. Service***** 
. General Feeling ***** 
(out ol live stars) 
By AMBER AGUIAR 
Scene Writer 

One bite of its signature stuffed pizza, a thick Chicago­style pie packed with mouth-watering mozzarella cheese and dripping with a homemade tomato sauce, aud you'll be glad you made the drive. 
Tucked inside Mishawaka's historic 100 Center sever­al miles from Notre Dame, Giannetto's is not an easy place to find. The restaurant's reopening is so recent it has no neon sign, and its position at the back of the plaza makes it nearly invisible from the street. 
But everything else about the restaurant makes Giannetto's really stand out. From the moment you walk in the door, it's clear that you're in for a unique dining experience. 
The restaurant lies in the lower level of the old Kamme-Schellinger Brewery, built in 1853 and now a national historic site. A short stairwell leads down to the restaurant's modest door. The restaurant is small, with a low ceiling and brick walls painted over in white. Grapevines line the ceiling and paintings of Italian vistas hang from the walls. Without windows, 
Giannetto's is a cozy, well-lit, Italian hideaway. 
And it is truly a "mom and pop" restaurant. With sauce and flour all over their bright red aprons, own­ers Vic and Donna Giannetto emerge from the kitchen to greet their customers. They are talkative, friendly and obviously proud of their product, as Vic repeated­ly exclaims, "You're in for a real treat!" 
Giannetto's first introduced its stuffed pizza to the Michiana area in 1978, and the business has always been family-run. The entire Giannetto family has had a hand in the business, with each of the couple's seven children having at one time worked in the restaurant. Just by eating at Giannetto's, a customer comes to feel like a part of this fami­
ly. 

Its homey, authentically Italian 
ambiance sets Giannetto's apart from the corpo­rate franchise restaurants that line the streets of the South Bend area. Vic is amicable and '~iler,anci...,,.:? approachable, a short Italian man with an easy .t:!, •·· •· · laugh and smiling eyes. Walking around the restau-~rJ.t: , rant welcoming customers, he becomes a part of the .... ··· ·. . S/ciJy-
· -, restaurant's unique atmosphere. ~ 
Giannetto's takes great pride in the service and satisfaction ~ :--"''") of its customers. Much of this pride comes from the restaurant's ' refusal to serve anything pre-made, pre-packaged or frozen. Everything down to the tasty croutons that top the salads are made at Giannetto's. All of its sauces, sausages and even salad dressings are prepared on the premises. It is quality food made with care, and the difference is easy to taste. While service may seem slow, each dinner is made to order and the 
product is well worth the wait. 
Its great food and reasonable prices make it the perfect place for any type of gathering. Giannetto's serves delicious pasta entrees and Italian sandwiches. all for less than $9. It is the ideal place for big group activities, such as section 
dinners or family get-togethers on par­ents' football weekends. But its quaint atmosphere makes it a great place to bring a date as well, and for under $13, a couple can share one of Giannetto's famous stuffed pizzas that easily fills two stomachs. 
Its original pizza is a must-try for any Italian food fan. Stacked inches high with savory homemade ingredients, it makes for a memorable dining experi­ence. With Giannetto's incredible food, great service and unique atmosphere, the restaurant really stands out from 
the area's other, often-mediocre Italian restaurants. 
Take a taste of Giannetto's. It's likely to be a fantastic dining experience you won't forget, and you'll return home recommending it to all of your friends. 
Giannetto's Restaurant 
. Location: 100 North Center, Mishawaka 
. Phone: 254-9177 
. Hours: Lunch 11 a.m. -2 p.m., Tue. -Fri. Dinner 5 p.m. -10 p.m., Mon. -Thurs. 5 p.m. • 11 p.m., Fri. -Sat. Closed Sunday 
. Atmosphere***** 
. Food Quality***** 
. Price***** 
. 
Service **** 1/2 

. 
General Feeling ***** 


(out of live stars) 
I 
I -I 

w E 
ceneN D I 
THE 
Friday, November 5, 1999 OBSERVER 


Time for dining q & a 
place has a slogan ­By MARY ANNE LEWIS "Cooking Like 
Scene Writer

it 0 Mamma Used to Make." Indeed, Mamma 
Q: What do you get when you mix a bit of little Italy with a Susie is now in a tie with diner? this reviewer's mother. 
•
1n 
na 
eta 
.Naples 

A: Cosimo and Susie's. 

This little restaurant, probably no bigger than about five dorm rooms, holds great atmosphere for anyone who is looking for a low-key place that offers a good meal and good conversation. 
Just a five to 10 minute ride from campus, Cosimo and Susie's -A Bit of Italy. is located on Grape and McKinley, on the northeast side of Town & Country shopping center. 
Walk in, and see a Fightin' Irish flag on the right wall, just above the framed portrait of the Four Horsemen. Aside from the food, perhaps the best thing about Cosimo and Susie's is the decor. On the back left wall. there is a gor­geous painted gazebo. Hanging from the ceiling are unlit tiki lamps. Next to the kitchen, in the middle of the restau­rant, are wine bottles poised on the Banfi wine rack. They even have a Coke machine, a Budweiser neon sign and a non-smoking sign that says, "Lungs at Work -No Smoking." 
And don't forget the posters and family portraits. From "The Godfather" to Cosimo and Susie's "Fantasia" to 
A Bit of Italy "Casablanca" to "The Big Night," everything some­
. Location: 2446 Miracle Ln., how fits together. Who would have
Mishawaka 

thought that the 
. 
Phone: 258-4911 Budweiser sign would fit right in

. 
Hours: 



with the Four
11:30 a.m. -8p.m., Mon. -Thurs. 
Horsemen? The 
4:30 p.m. -10 p.m., Fri. final touch is the centerpiece. On
5:30 p.m. -10 p.m. Sat. 

every table is a 
wine bottle with 
three false red
. Atmosphere **** 

roses inside. Of 
. Food Quality **** course, with the dim lighting, the
. Price ***** 

restaurant can get
. Service ***** away with a few 
. General Feeling **** shortcuts. 
Now the food: Delicious. This 
(out of five stars) 

· So, a middle-aged Italian woman 
came over with a bowl of sausage-veg­
etable soup, and, of course, garlic 
bread. Spaghetti and meatballs then 
appeared on the table, while outside 
the rain was falling and wind blow­
ing. Warm food, dim lighting, a moth­­
erly waitress and a familial ambiance 
provided for a nice dinner. 
The waiters and waitresses knew 
many of the customers. They talked 
casually with them, sitting down at 
their tables. "Did you eat your soup 
yet? Nope? No -I'm just kiddin'. 

Just bein' a mother!" 
On the right side of the restau­
rant, some parents tried to subdue 
their children and teach them the 

correct way of eating pasta. The 
children, meanwhile, were much 

more interested in the Notre 
Dame paraphernalia and the 
wind outside. Eventually, they 
saw the food and quickly quieted 
do\ffi. 
Back to the food. Whether the 

order is dinner or a half-order, it 
is good and there is a lot of it. 
This is ideal for college students. 
Spicy meatballs, spaghetti, fet­
tucini, mostaccioli or whatever 
you may choose will be cooked 
well, and quickly. The meat­
balls are spicy and just right. 
The drinks are large. The price 
is small. In fact, you're more 
likely to spend more on the 
cab than you are on the meal. 
So for "A Bit of Italy," great 

posters, quaint Italian atmos­
phere and some very friendly 
waitresses, come to Cosimo 
and Susie's. Until then, 
"Mangia Bene!" 
Casual balanced with elegant 
By JACKIE OSTROWSKI Scene W ricer 


• Italian restaurants in the South Bend/Mishawaka area Reggio are plentiful, but few can boast a unique atmosphere paired di Ci with delicious food. Francesco's is one of a few restaurants that 
can make such a claim. Francesco's, located at 1213 N. LincolnWay in West Mishawaka, is 
a small but bustling eatery. Vines drape the ceilings, and clusters of 

everything from gourds to baby photos add a distinct flavor to the restaurant. A fast-paced, almost frantic feel fills the restaurant on a typical, post-game Saturday night as waiters dart in and out of the kitchen. Far from the commercial­ized, pseudo-Italian "ambiance" of chain restaurants like The Olive Garden, Fram;pJ;co's has a more familiar feel. The restaurant succeeds in providing a more 
traditional Italian atmosphere. 
Francesco's Italian and American Restaurant 
. 
Location: 1213 Lincoln Way, 

West Mishawaka . Phone: 256-1444 

. 
Hours: 5 p.m. -10 p.m., Mon. -Sat. Closed Sunday 

. 
Atmosphere **** 

. 
Food Quality**** 


. Price**** 
. 
Service *** 

. 
General Feeling***** 


(out of live stars) 
The menu, though somewhat limited, otfers enough of a variety to please most diners. Francesco's appetizers are a pnr­fect way to begin a meal. The garlic bread ($6.50) topped with savory melted cheese delights the palate and is served in largP portions. HowevPr, the bruschPt­ta ($7.95) leaves something to be desired; its overly salty seasonings do nut comple­ment its attractive prc.sentation. Still, Francesco's should be commended on providing plenty of both appetizers to go around. 
Each entree includes either a bowl of pasta e fagioli soup or a garden salad. Though many diners typically order a salad to accompany an Italian meal. they should not overlook Francesco's soup, which provides just the right blend of tangy navorings. The salad consists of mainly iceberg lettuce and could benefit from a greater variety of greens. Al.so, the house Italian dressing, while palatable, has no outstanding qualitiPs that set it apart. 
While most Italian restaurants serve bread before the appetizers, Francesco's waits until the meals arrive. The freshly baked bread, when dipped in olive oil and Parmesan cheese in authentic Italian style, is deli­cious. For the most part, the portion sizes are hearty. The eggplant parmigiana ($13.50) and lasagna ($12.00) are exceptionally large. In comparison, the tortellini is served in a much smaller bowl. However, the tortellini is suffi­ciently filling and is topped with a flavorful red sauce. The eggplant parmigiana certainly satisfies, but like the bruschetta, it is a bit too salty. Overall, the food is of high quality, but certain aspects could be improved. 

Francesco's is moderately priced, with entrees ranging from $10 to $18. Naturally, the pricier meals are much larger than the less expensive pasta dishes. The appetizer prices seem steep; they range from about $6 to $8. However, the portions are generous and well prepared. Overall, the food here is well worth the money. 
Service throughout the meal is generally quite good, if a bit rushed. The fast-paced atmosphere on a busy night might not lend to a dinner of lingering conversation, but it's just right for students and their families, who tend to make up the majority of the crowd on a post-game evemng. Typically, the servers are efficient and quick. but their competence sometimes causes their manners to suf­fer. In an attempt to s·wiftly distribute meals, one server interrupted an Pntire table's conversation to reaffirm who had ordered each meal. Understandably, a large party was present, but waiters should make every effort to avoid disrupting dinner conversation. 
Beyond price and service, however, lie certain intangi­bles that affect the overall feel of the restaurant. Francesco's manages to strike the right balance"between 
casual and elegant; the paper menus and plastic chairs somehow fit with the candlelit tables and arched ceil­ings. The attractive yet relaxed setup of the restaurant unquestionably adds to its charm and popularity. Overall, Francesco's is a worthwhile visit for some delicious Italian food. Hungry diners can devour the atmosphere at Francesco's as easily as the pasta di'>hes. 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November 5, 1999
-
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 

Mississippi State remains undefeated 
Associated Press 
STARKVILLE. Miss. 
Given a second chance, Scott Westerfield kept No. 8 Mississippi State undefeat­ed. 
Five minutes after missing a 46-yard field goal attempt, Westerfield kicked a 45­yarder with five seconds left to give the Bulldogs (8-0, 5-0 Southeastern Conference; a 23-22 victory over Kentucky Thursday night. 
"I had to redeem myself there," Westerfield said. "The first one. I kind of

-hooked it a little bit. I knew we were going to neBd the kick at the end, so I was just glad I could go in there and do my job." Westerfield got another chance when Kentucky (5-4, 3-3 SEC) was forced to punt with 1:30 left. That set up the Bulldogs. who for the third straight game overcame a double-digit deficit to win in the final two minutes. "When you miss a field goal and then have a chance to win a game, come back and it's a must, you must make this one, it says a lot about him," State coach Jackie Sherrill said. "Every week, you say your heart can't take much more of this. But you keep win­ning and your heart keeps 
pumping," Sherrill said. "We talked this week about con­tinuing to play for 60 min­utes. The mistakes we made were early in the game." 
Never before has Mississippi State been unbeaten so deep into a sea­son. 
Backup quarterbark Matt Wyatt, who replaced injured starter Wayne Madkin in the third quarter, was 5-of-6 for 53 yards after the Bulldogs took over at their 20. After an illegal forward pass penalty pushed the ball back to the Kentucky 28, Westerfield came on and made up for his earlier miss. 
Kentucky had one more chance, but Dusty Bonner was hit when he tried to throw a last-ditch pass, and the ball was intercepted by Eugene Clinton to end the game. 
"I'm extremely disappoint­ed that we didn't make sim­ple plays," Kentucky coach Hal Mumme said. "We should have won this game." 
The nation's best defense held Kentucky to just 176 yards -226 yards below their SEC leading average. The Bulldogs were allowing just 202 yards a game. 
Mississippi State, which also had to overcome 19 penalties for 143 yards, got the apparent break it need­ed when Ashley Cooper hit Bonner, forcing a fumble 

that Willie Blade recovered at the Kentucky 26. 
But the Bulldogs lost 3 yards in three plays and Westerfield missed wide left on a 46-yard field goal attempt with 5:43 left. Westerfield had hit six of his first eight attempts of more than 40 yards this season. 
After being held to just 53 yards in the first half, Kentucky gained 50 yards on its first possession of the second half. Tight end James Whalen had catches of 17 and 11 yards, but the Wildcats stalled at the Mississippi State 32 and had to settle for Marc Samuel's 39-yard field goal that put the Wildcats up 22-14. 
Whalen has 11 catches, pushing his season total to 78, breaking the NCAA record for catches by a tight end set by Utah's Dennis Smith with 73 in 1989. 
Madkin injured his ankle midway through the third quarter, and was replaced by Wyatt after moving State from its 20 to the Kentucky 
34. Wyatt came on and com­pleted State's only other sec­ond-half touchdown drive, converting third-and-7 with an 8-yard pass to Kelvin Love before freshman Dontae Walker scored on a 6-yard run. Mississippi State still trailed 22-20 after miss­ing a 2-point conversion. 
The Wildcats led 19-14 at halftime, scoring on three straight possessions despite averaging a mere 1.6 yards per play. 
Bonner's 1-yard plunge put the Wildcats up 12-7 two plays after 6-foot-7, 255-pound defensive end Dennis Johnson blocked a punt to set up Kentucky at the 1. 
The pnwious Kentucky scoring drive started at the Mississ.ippi State 24 after Marlon McCree recovered a fumbled snap. 
Kendrick Shanklin caught a 4-yard TD pass from Bonner, but Kentucky still trailed 7-6 after Willie Blade rushed through and blocked the extra point. 
On Kentucky's first posses­sion of the second quarter, Bonner hit Whalen twice for 32 yards to set up Anthony White's 6-yard TD run. 
Justin Griffith leaped over the pile for a 1-yard TD to get State within 19-14. That was just two plays after Madkin hit Love for a 41­yard gain, converting third­an d-18 with the over-the-shoulder catch. 
The Bulldogs went ahead 7-0 with a three-play, 89­yard drive. Madkin hit fresh­man Terrell Grindle for 52 yards and Love for 21 more before Dicenzo Miller ran around left end untouched for an 11-yard TD. 
PRO BASKETBALL 
Master P considers San Diego 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO 
Not good enough for the NBA, rap star Master P could be in the uniform of the minor-league San Diego Stingrays by next week. 
The multimillionaire rapper and pro­ducer, whose real name is Percy Miller, is negotiating with the Stingrays of the new International Basketball League and a deal could be announced by Wcd'it~sd'ay. 
"I would say we 're pretty close," Stingrays general manager Jim Sims said Thursday night. 
"At the same time, it's not a done deal. There are some obstacles that we have to weed through. I think from this end, we can get through it." 
Miller was with the Toronto Raptors in training camp. but was waived last week. He later cr_iticized the team for not giving him a fair chance. 
"It's not a stunt," Sims said. ''l-le's a guy who can seriously play basketball. How good was Master? Good enough to be there to the last cut." 
Sims and coach Smokey Gaines knew of Miller's interest in basketball, so they got his IBL rights by taking him in the 23rd round of the inaugural draft in July. 
"We knew he'd be in an NBA camp, and Smokey said, 'If you don't make it, hey, San Diego's a nice place.' He loves to play," Sims said. 

The Obsep,,er accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center 
PHONE 631-COPY 
www.CopyShopND.com Store Hours Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm Sat: Noon-6:00pm Sun: Noon-Midnight 
WANT TO LEARN ABOUTTHE LAW? ND Law School needs volunteers to be jurors in mock trials on Dec. 4 & 5.Staff, faculty and students are welcome. Please call Gloria Krull at 631-6860 to sign up. 
LOST & FOUND 
Lost: earring, silver and amathyst, sentimental value. Oct. 13 between DeBartolo, stadium parking lot, and Decio. 233-8672 
WANTED 
FREE TRIPS AND CASH!!! 
SPRING BREAK 2000 StudentCity .com is looking for Highly Motivated Students to promote Spring Break 200QI Organize a small group and travel FREEHTop campus reps can earn a Free Trip & over $10,000 Choose Cancun, Jamaica or Nassau Book Trips On-Line Log In and win FREE stuff Sign Up Now On Line! www.StudentCity.com or 800/293-1443 EARN FREE TRIPS AND CASH!!! SPRING BREAK 2000 'CANCUN" 
•JAMAICA' For 10 years Class Travel International (CTI) has distin­guished itself as the most reliable student event and marketing orga­nization in North America Motivated Reps can go on Spring Break FREE & earn over $$$$$ $1 o.ooot $$$$$ Contact Us today or details! 800/328-1509 www.classtravelintl.com 
...ACT NOW!CALL FOR THE BEST SPRING BREAK 
PAICESISOUTH PAORE,CAN­CUN,JAMAICA,BAHAMAS,ACA­
PULCO,FLORIDA & MARDt GRAS.REPS NEEDED...TRAVEL FREE.EARN $$$.DISCOUNTS FOR 6+. 800-838-8203 WWW.LEISURETOURS.COM 
Loving ND-SMC couple wishes to adopt.Will provide a lifetime of laughter,love,devotion and opportu­nities. 800-484-4699 code 0019 
To our 4am inquirer: all mfo kept in tolal confidence.Please call back anytime.Our prayers are with you. 
Free One Bedroom Apartment near Campus 
A family with three children seeks fun.energetic student or graduate to live in charming apartment tor FREE in exchange for mutually agreeable babysitting responsibili­ties. Fax name.phone# and brief note describing experience and interests to Walker at 233-2308. 
WANTED: DRUMMER & BASSIST 
NOTRE DAME SHENANIGANS SHOW CHOIR is looking for a drummer & bassist to perform for X­mas concert.No experience nec­cessary.Must attend 3 dates, including evenings of Dec 6 and7.Equipment can be provided.Wages negotiable.Call office @1-5896 or Bryan @4-3044. 

NOTRE DAME SHENANIGANS SHOW CHOIR is also DESPER­ATELY seeking a male perlormer to complete its ensemble for X-mas concert.No experience necessary.6 week comrnitment,w/ 2nd semester membership opinial.Rehearsals occur Weds 9:30-11PM & Suns 3­6PM.Must also commit to evenings of Dec 6 & 7.A great way to meet girls.Call office @ 1-5896 or Bryan 
@4-3044. 

ND Students: Need a new car? Convince us (in 500 words or less) that you're the one who deseNes it, And we'll send you a brand new Volkswagon Beetle! Check us out at WinningLetter.com 
gmbid.com is a pre IPO start-up luxury auction web site, pioneered by Georges Marciano, the founder of Guess? Jeans. We are looking tor a part time campus representa­tive to join us in arranging local pro­motions, PR, giveaways, e-mail campaigns, sponsorships, etc. Must be interested in marketing, a self­starter, fun, and a team player. Please email resumes to: reps@gmbid.com 
FOR RENT 
ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE HOME FOR ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 243-0658. 
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $80­$115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road Exit #107, 1­800-418·9487. 
3 BDRM DUPLEX REMODELED 501 EDDY ST. 1 Ml. FROM CAM­PUS APPLIANCES, W/D.273-8332 
ReseNe for the 2000 Football Season & Special Occasions. Bedroom Suite w/Bath Private Entry, 760 SF New Construction above Garage. Just 30 min. from ND, 1 mi. off US 318, in county. 
219-291-3771. 

email: moby77@tir.com 
WALK TO SCHOOL http://mmmrentals.homepage.com 232-2595 or mmm.rentals@aol.com 
4-6 student rental houses. Lots of extras. Huge Party Room. Washer/Dryer, etc. Dave 291-2209. 
FOR SALE 
Spring Break Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise 5 Days $279! Includes Meals! Awesome Beaches,Nightlife!Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights From $399! Florida $129!springbreaktravel.com 1 ·B00-678-6386 
FOR SALE 
N.D. FOOTBALL TIX CALL 271-9412 
FOR SALE 
N.D. FOOTBALL TIX CALL 271-9412 
Phone Cards 669min. $20 243-9361 or 258-4805 
Beautiful brass bed, queen size, with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame. New, never used, still in plastic. $235 219-862-2082 
Ford Ranger PU '88, stick-super cab ctean-59k miles $4,250 271-9474 
Sofa/Sleeper, 17" TV,Receiver/Cass/Speakers-$1 oo Each. Call 287-7581 
TICKETS 
WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS 271-1526 
SELL & BUY GA FOOTBALL TICK­ETS 277-6619 FOR SALE BC & ELTON JOHN tix. Best Prices AM -232·2378 PM -288-2726 
ND Football tix BOUGHT & SOLD AM -232-2378 PM -288-2726 
FOR SALE 
N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS CALL 271-9412 
WANTED: 4 Tenn. Tix 312-951-5008 
ELTON JOHN TICKETS 272-7233 GOOD SEATS...... 
I need one BC ticket Call Holden 634-4788 
FOR SALE: 2BCtix. 1-800-547-9094 Jason D. 
I NEED BC TIX! GA OR REGULAR! 634-2595 
NEED 2 ND-Pitt tickets. Call John 634-2795 
PERSONAL 
High-Speed Copies. Color Copies, Binding, Fax SeNice, Resumes, 
Business Cards. laminating, & a whole lot more at THE COPY SHOP Lafortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY Free Pick-Up & Delivery! 
Spring Break 2000 Free Trips & Meals. Jamaica.Cancun, Bahamas.Barbados, Florida.Padre. Book now for Free Meals & 2 Free Trips. Book before Dec. 17 for LOWER PRICESII 
1800-426-771 0 www.sunsplashtours.com 
Funky GOURDS 
Three for a dollar!! Fun imaginative shapes...... . 
I'm going to the men's basketball game tonight. WHY YOU ASK? They need me. that's why. 
THE SIXTH MAN 
Let's all welcome the new coach and his dynamic team. 
Sara S: What's with all the fires @ St Mary's? -Mark B 
To my friend at the Grotto last night, I thank you from the bottom of my heart. May God bless you too. -Kelly Rogers 
Brooke -Don't study too hard this weekend. 
Chas, you think you're too good for us, you're going down punk 
Erin, thanks for the sweatshirt... i really am getting skinny if i'm fitting into your clothing ... 
Alex, how's that warning level? I'll think about it next time i'm on a date with somebody's future wife. Go Friends reruns 
Dylan and Kelly embrace once again while Gina plots to destroy a wonderlul relationship .... Steve Sanders driving a minivan?!?!?!? 
Sean -have lun in Tennessee. Don't cause too much trouble. 
T -thanks for everything yesterday. You're the greatest. 
To my wonderlul sleepless roo­mates, may the orgo gods be with you. 
To my best friend who came and visited me twice here last night, thanks for reminding me why i love you. yur the best. 

Friday, November 5, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
HIGH SCHOOL FOOTBALL 

Player had heart condition 
Associa1ed l're,s 
BEAVEHTON, Ore 
A Beaverton lligh School l'ootball player who collapsed and di,id hours after practice had a history of' drnsl pains, but was always able to resume playing after his !mart rute slowed, his coach and team­mates said Thursday. 
Brnndan FitzPatrick. 18, was watching ganw video al home with his father Wednesday night when he collaps('d. 
Tlw stal1: medical examiner's ofl1ce said the caus11 of death was belinvml lo bo arrhythmia, or an irrngular heartbeat lhat causes the heart to stop pumµ-. ing blood. 
Dr. Karnn Gunson of the slate medical examiner's office said thn tenn had a history of Wolff-Parkinson-White Syndrome. l'oople who have llie co1H.lition can sulTer mis­lrnats of' Urn heart or arrhyth­mia. A doctor first diagnosed FitzPatrick with Lim syndrome four years ago. 
l>r. Jack Kron. who heads llrn arrhythmia treatmnnt pro­gram at Oregon lfoalth Sciencns University, said FitzPatrick's condition allowed a chamber of' his heart to occa­sionally "short circuit" and race lrnyond 300 beats per minute. 
Kron said heavy physical activity might bn unrelated to his death. 
"Folks who anrn't athletes 
can die wiih this C()ndition," he said. 
FitzPatrick, a 6-foot-3, 230­pound senior, was a four-year letterman at center and was selected first-team all-Metro League last seaso11. Ile also played basketball on the junior varsity team. He had never suffered a serious problem in a game or practice. 
But he had been forced to come out of foot.ball practices s1wcral times because of chest pains, and coaches always rnsted him until the pains went away, Beaverton coach Faustin Ililoy said. 
"We've hefm aware of them," Hiley said. "I lis dad called our offensive line coach and explained the situation, and I guess the basketball coaches have been aware of it. So it's been a condition that didn't bother him very often. But it would, and he was told just to step out until his heart rate went back lo normal. and he'd be OK." 
Fitzl'atrick had not had any chest pains this season until Wednesday afternoon. He sat out most of the practice, went in for a few plays, and came back out. 
"By the time he left here he seemed to be per[eclly fine," Riley said. 
FitzPatrick went home, and his teammates from the offen­sive line came over for dinner. Afterward they watched video­tape f'rom a previous game, preparing for Friday night's 

game at Hillsboro lligh. 
After about 90 minutes, his teammates left, and PitzPatrick went to put anoth­er tape in the recorder to watch with his father, James. FitzPatrick had just sat down on the couch when he col­lapsed. 
The death stunned friends of the popular P,!ayer. Outside th:; school. a memory tree 
· dedicated to fallen classmates was decorated with flowers and ribbons. lns.ide, students hugged outside tho trophy case and posted letters, poems and photos of the player. "I-le w11,s Hrn groatest, team­mate Chris Prahl said. "Ever since freshman year he was always there, just joking around. I-le was always happy. H's a complete shock. For him to he 18 and to die, it's just horrible." ''He was one of those gentle giant type of guys -real big guy, but always smiling," said Hiley, who sat alone in the Beavers' locker room before his players came in for a team meeting. FitzPatrick came from a f'oot­ba11 family. His two old er brothers played at Beaverton High and later in the Pac-10. James FitzPatrick played as an offensive lineman at Southern California from 1983-85 and later with the San Diego Chargers and Los Angeles Raiders. Devin FitzPatrick was a defensive tackle al Oregon from 1985-88. 
NBA 
Marv Albert returns for full NBA season 
Associated Press 
Marv Albert is making up for lost time. 
After a forced hiatus, the NBA's top play-by-play man returns to NBC this season and will also call a full slate of games for Turner Sports while continuing his duties at the Madison Square Garden network. 
"People will be saying, 'It's enough. Get him out of here'," Albert said. "But to me. it's like a dream world." 
Albert hasn't received offi­cial word on his partner on NBC, which begins coverage Christmas Day. He docs know he'll be teamed with former partner Mike Fratello on Turner, and they form per­haps the leagup's best broad­casting duo, slightly better than NBC's Bob Costas and Doug Collins. 
"lle's the best in the busi­ness," said Fratello, who was fired as coach of tho Cleveland Cavaliers after last season. 
Albert called Fralello one of the top three or four coaches in the NBA. 
"We're just fortunate to have him for as long as we're going to have him," Albert said. "Unfortunately for TV, I think it's going to be a short run." 
Fratello said that Albert has paid his dues after he was fired by NBC after pleading guilty in a sex case about two years ago. 
"That's over and done," Fratcllo said. "We've all done things at limes that we wished we could change. The thing is what you do to pick yourself up. Marv's done a terrific job of handling it." 
Albert and Fratcllo worked their first game together on TNT on Tullsday night, when the Los Angeles Lakers defeated the Utah Jazz. 
The Lakers and the New York Knicks will appear on Turner a league-high 15 times this season and will make the malimum 26 appearances between the two networks. 
Even with the lockout last season that knocked out the first half of Turner's sched­ule, the cable network some­how managed a 5 percent increase in ratings. 
"We'd love to say we knew it all along, but we didn't," said Kevin O'Malley, Turner's senior vice president of pro­gramming. "None of us knew the impact. The longer it went, lhe morn we felt tlrnre might be a long fan back­lash." 
But the fan revolt never • happened. 



"Plunge" •nt. the ne~t m•Uenn•um... r i)SOC JAL CONCERNS 
.:,• II 11 i\ 

DEADLINE EXTENDED: 
Monday, November 8th 
"The Urban Plunge opened my eyes to a city that was always there, but hidden to me before. I encountered common day prophets against a background of poverty and despair. Forty-eight hours inspired me to take the next step and serve." -Lou Nanni 
Limited spaces still available in: Be part of history: 
Albany Los Angeles 
Participate in one of the country's longest Atlanta Milwaukee 
standing and most respected programs of
Buffalo Minneapolis 
experiential learning.

Cincinnati Phoenix Cleveland~ Sacramento Join the Urban Plunge program as it 
Columbus Saint Petersburg forges into me rie~t m,Uenn~um Detroit San Antonio Grand Rapids South Bend 
Pick up and drop off your registration form 
Honolulu Tacoma, WA 

at the Center for Social Concerns TODAY.
Joliet, IL Vero Beach, FL Louisville, KY Washington, DC Questions? Call Jay Caponigro, 631-5293. 
DEADLINE EXTENDED: Monday, Nov. 8th 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November 5, 1999 
NBA 

Jones steals Hornet record in win over Pacers 
rebounds. starting 0-for-9, added a 3-The 76ers outscored Phoenix roles and fill them nicely." 
Associated Press 

The Sonics got a dunk on an pointer and a fast-break dunk in 15-0 to start the final quarter Reserve forward Samaki 
offensive rebound by Jelani the burst. and take a 74-68 lead on rookie Walker, a free agent from DallasCHARLOTTE, N.C. 
McCoy with 5:29 left, and a steal Howard Eisley scored 11 Todd MacCulloch's rebound bas-who signed with San Antonio inEddie Jones led the most pro­and dunk by Brent Barry nine points off the bench as the Jazz ket with 7:06 to play. Iverson, the offseason, had 16 points. 
lific defensive effort in Charlotte seconds later to take a 100-86 avoided starting the season 0-2 Macculloch and Hill each scored 'Tm still looking for my flow," 

Hornets history with a club­

lead. for the first time in 14 vears. four during the run. The Suns Walker said. "Once I get myrecord nine steals that fueled a With a rebuilt roster featuring Cuttino Mobley scored 17 were 0-for-6 with four turnovers flow, I feel I can contribute98-89 victory over the Indiana three new starters, the Sonics points for the Rockets, who had during that stretch. more, give more of a spark."
Pacers on Thursday night. 

got 17 points from new small seven turnovers in the first 6 A 7-0 Suns run put them up San Antonio held a 10-point
Jones' efforts helped the 

forward Ruben Patterson and 14 minutes and finished with 23. for good 79-78. Kidd hit a lead at halftime, then expandedHornets force a franchise-record points and 11 rebounds from Hakeem Olaj uwon added 12 jumper and two free throws, it to 20 several times in the third 32 turnovers and convert them Horace Grant, the team's new points and Bryce Drew 10 but then Marion sank a 16-footer to quarter.
into 33 points, securing the first center. Houston never led. put the Suns ahead 78-77. Tom By the end of the third, the2-0 start in Charlotte's 12 sea­Grant, 34, played 36 minutes "I was really disappointed," Gugliotta, who missed four free Warriors trimmed the Spurs'sons. 

and Maxwell logged 30 minutes said coach Hudy Tomjanovich. throws down the stretch in the lead to 73-56 thanks to two bas­Jones, who added 22 points, as Seattle improved to after "We worked on these guys Suns' overtime loss in Denver on kets by rookie Von teegokeyed a 16-6 run in the first missing the playoffs for the first [JazzJ yesterday and I thought Tuesday. missed two with 3:26 Cummings in the final 29 sec­
quarter that put the Hornets 

time in nine years last season. we had a good shootaround to play, but Rodney Rogers onds.
ahead to stay. Jones had six 

Dallas got 15 points from Dirk today. We're not transferring made one of two with 2:30 The Spurs opened the final
points and two steals in the 

Nowitzki and 14 from Michael what our plan is to the floor." remaining to put Phoenix up 79-"Hperiod with a 3-pointer by Jaren surge, when Charlotte forced six Finley. Rockets swingman Shandon 77. Jackson. Robinson scored theturnovers and converted them Seattle took a seven-point lead Anderson returned to the Delta next seven points for Saninto 10 poinLS for a 22-14 lead. 
into the fourth quarter and Center, where he spent the first Antonio, giving the Spurs an 83­
Jones' theft total. which repre­San Antonio 104,
Maxwell promptly sank a 3-three seasons of his NBA career 61 lead with 8:03 remaining and 
sented a new career high for 

Golden State 81
pointer. with the Jazz. putting the game out of reach. 
one of the NBA's best defenders, David Robinson's aching backDallas cut its deficit to 84-79 hdped the Hornets finish with a 

before Rashard Lewis sank two is getting better. 
franchise-record 20 steals. Phoenix 84, Philidelphia 80 Milwaukee 119, Atlanta 109
free throws, McCoy hit a Robinson scored 19 points,
Rookie Baron Davis added four Penny Hardaway scored 18 The Milwaukee Bucks wanted
and Tim Duncan added 15
five-footer. Lewis scored on a

and Bobby Philis had three. points in his Phoenix debut and to prove right from the start
fastbreak layup and McCoy had points and 14 rebounds as the 
Reggie Miller had 20 points for the Suns recovered from an they're one of the best teams in 
a dunk to put the Sonics in San Antonio Spurs defeatrd the 
the Pacers, who had more prob­early fourth-quarter collapse to the Eastern Conference. 
front 92-79. Golden State Warriors Thursday 
lems than their failure to take win their home opener from the So far, so good.
night. 
care of the ball. Aging center Rik Philadelphia 76ers Thursday Ray Allen scored 31 points,
Robinson, 34, was slowed in 

Smits, bothered by foot pain for Utah 98, Houston 82 night. Sam Cassell added 24 and the
the preseason with a sore upper
several years, had trouble get­Karl Malone is on the brink of Jason Kidd scored seven of his Milwaukee Bucks spoiled the
back after getting elbowed in an 
ting up and down the court and joining Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, 22 points in the final 5:12 and Atlanta Hawks' first NBA game
exhibition game in Houston. He 
moving around quickly in the Wilt Chamberlain and Michael rookie Shawn Marion added 16 at Philips Arena. 
also had tightness in his lower 
defense. Jordan as the only NBA players for the Suns, who blew a nine­The Bucks have won their first 
post on Charlotte a problem that flares up
back,
exploited Smits' problems by to score more than 29,000 point lead at the start of the final two games on the road, beating
from time to time. He missed 
repeatedly driving at him down points. period. Phoenix won despite 26 Houston 98-93 in the opener
two preseason games because of 
low, and the result was a 46-26 But forget the milestone. turnovers, thanks largely to a 4-Tuesday night. 
the ailments. 
.. 
edge for scoring in the paint. Malone would rather talk about for-20 shooting performance by "When we get on the court, we
'Tm starting to feel good

his defense. Allen Iverson. , run on all four cylinders," Allen
again," Robinson said. "My back
Malone scored 21 points and The 76ers led 77-72 with 6:02 said. "We're definitely off to a
Toronto 97, Miami 86 body is starting to bounce
John Stockton added 18 points to play, then didn't score again great start. Eighty games left.,
Doug Christie had 28 points, around again. My back feels
and seven assists as the Utah until George Lynch's layup with It's important that we keep
including six 3-pointers, to lead line."
Jazz beat the Houston Rockets. 7.4 seconds remaining. focused. We can't get too happy.
the Toronto Raptors over Miami, Robinson and Duncan each
Going into Saturday night's Kidd made three of four free We have to create a mystique
snapping an eight-game losing had three blocked shots as the 
game at Seattle, Malone needs throws and grabbed a crucial about our team and let them
streak against the Heat. Spurs held Golden State to 34
19 points to become the fourth offensive rebound in the final know we're for real." 
Vince Carter, who had 24 percent shooting. 
player in NBA history to score 51.1 seconds. The new-look Hawks look real 
points, led a fourth-quarter "We did great defensively,"
29,000 points. The others are Tyrone Hill scored 14 and -real confused. With a roster
charge with nine points in the Duncan said. "The low shooting
Abdul-Jabbar {38,387 points), Iverson 11 for Philadelphia. than includes seven new
period. percentage (for Golden State)
Chamberlain (31,419) and Lynch and Aaron McKie added players, Atlanta threw the ball
Antonio Davis, who came in a was very good. That's what we
Jordan (29,277). 10 apiece. Eric Snow was 2-for-all over the court and wound up
trade from Indiana in the offsea­want to do. That's what we did
"I don't want to be known only 12, making the two starting with 26 turnovers, leading to 35
s on, had 13 rebounds for last year." 
as an offensive player," Malone 76ers guards a combined 6-for-points for Milwaukee. 
Toronto. Warriors coach P.J. Carlesimo
said. "The defensive awards the 32. "Turnovers have been the
Alonzo Mourning had 18 said his team tried to concen­
last three years are sometimes Hardaway, who was suspend­nemesis for us," said coach
points, seven rebounds and five trate on defending Duncan and
what I'm most proud of." ed for Tuesday's season opener Lenny Wilkens, whose team
blocked shots for Miami. P.J. Robinson, but then other Spurs
For the past three seasons, for throwing a punch at gave up the ball 23 times in a
Brown had a double-double with players pitched in and hurt
coaches have named Malone to Miami's Rex Walters in the pre­94-87 loss at Washington in the
17 points and 13 rebounds, and Golden State. 
the NBA's All-Defensive First season, was 5-for-14 from the opener. "We have stretches
Jamal Mashburn added 17 "They are so deep," Carlesimo
Team. Going against Malone field and 7-for-8 from the foul where we play real well, and
points and six assists. said. "They have quite a few
most of the night, Charles line. He scored nine in the third then there are stretches where
The Raptors last beat the Heat guys on their bench with nearly
Barkey scored eight points and quarter as the Suns built a 68-we just don't take care of the
on March 30, 1997, a 102-97 ten years of NBA experience
had five rebounds. 59 lead. ball."
home victory. who really understand their
Asked about breaking the
The Raptors, who outscored 29,000-point barrier, MaloneMiami 31-1 7 in the fourth quar­said: "I just want to concentrateter, put together a 7-0 run to go on winning ballgames. It'll hap­up 78-75. 
pen soon enough if I can stayCarter set up Dell Curry's 3­healthy. 1don't even think aboutpointer 3:25 into the fourth to it."
bring the Raptors within one. 
Stockton, meanwhile, was 8­Carter put Toronto in front 76­


HOMES FOR RENT
of-8 from the floor and hit both75 on a long jumper and then of his free throw attempts. Jeff
had a fingertip layup as the Hornacek added 11 of his 17
Raptors went ahead for good. 
points in the third quarter as theChristie added three 3-pointers 


-Domus Properties has two, five, 
Jazz pulled away from a 44-44late in the game to clinch the tie.
Rap tors' first win of the season. 
six, and nine bedroom student 
"A couple of shots fell,"
The Raptors took a 47-40 lead Stockton said. "There really is 
housing available 
at the half. Alvin Williams made no explanation. We try to do the a nice fake on Tim Hardaway for same things that we do every 
-Student neighborhoods close to 
1
a layup, then hit an off-balance 

-
night. We try to make cuts off of 
26-footer near the buzzer. But Karl because they are so wor­
campus
the Heat came back with a 11-0 ried about stopping him." 
run as the fourth quarter began, 
-Security systems provided 
Malone was called for a charg­courtesy of a pair of jumpers by ing into Barkley with 6:37 toClarence Weatherspoon. 
-Well maintained homes 
play in the third and referee Violet Palmer added a technical 
-Maintenance staff on call
Seattle 106, Dallas 96 after Malone argued. The Vin Baker and Vernon Rockets pulled within 48-45 on 
Maxwell each scored 22 points the ensuing free throw by Walt as the Seattle Supersonics Williams. launched their home season 1t fired up the Jazz, who closed with a victory over Dallas. the period with a 20-14 run. 

Available for the 2000/2001 school year
Cedric Ceballos scored 34 Utah put the game out of reach points for the Mavericks, who with an 11-3 run over a span of lost to the Sonics in overtime in 1:33 early in the fourth quarter BETTER HURRY!!! ONLY 5 HOUSES LEFT 
their home opener last season. with Malone, Stockton and Cary Payton, who was score­Hornacek on the bench. 

Contact Kramer (219)274-1501 or (219)234-2436 or (219)674-2572
less at halftime, added 10 points Jacque Vaughn had two bas­and 13 assists. Baker added 13 kets and Bryon Russell, after 

page 19

Friday, November 5, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
See What's New at Tomass· 

Single Topping Pizza $6.97 Cheese Pizza $5.97 
Plain Breadsticks $2.37 1/2 Order $1.27 
-

Mozzarella Breadsticks $3.27 1/2 Order $1.77 zzarella Breadsticks with 1 Topping $3.77 1/2 Order $1.97 
COMBO 1, Pizza, Mozzarella Breadsticks, and a 2 Liter Bottle of Coke $10.77 
,_,. ./[$:Jo,,.,.. 

COMBO 2, 2 Pizzas, Mozzarella Breadsticks, and a 2 Liter Bottle of Coke $17.77 
FOR DELIVERY 

1-'4777 

Delivery a1railable from 6;0Q.p.m. to 1:00 a.m. 

eemable on any large pizza I expires Nov. 18, 1999 I 
Padres sign Lopes as manager 
frustration for the four-time 

Associated Press 
All-Star second baseman, who 
has been a candidate for near­
MILWAUKEE ly every managerial opening in 

Davey Lopns had his eye on baseball in the past few sea­the Milwaukee Brewers for a sons. while. "There was a point in my 
On Thursday, the Brewers r.areer -lately, in fact -that· Hycd him back. I didn't think this would hap­
"I anticipated tlmt this day pen," he said. would happen," Lopes said Lopes, who has Hispanic, Thursday after agre,\ing to a Afrir.an-American and Irish thnm-year contract lo manage roots, becomes the fifth minor­thn Brnw1irs. ity manager in baseball. join-
As tlrn San Diego Padres' ing Dusty Baker of San first-basn coach for tlrn past Francisco, .Jerry Manuel of the fivn snasons, Lop!lS closely Chicago White Sox. Felipe observed lhc Browers, particu-Alou of Montreal and Don larly when they playod the Baylor of the Chicago Cubs, Padrns. who was hirnd on Monday. 
"I didn't. know if it w·ould ·.. Baseball commissioner Bud happnn, hut I anticipatnd it," Selig. the father or team presi­lrn said. "Wti 'd play dent Wendy Selig-Prich, Milwauk1w, and peopln would demanded teams consider sav. 'Watch this club. You'll minoritv candidates for all JJr~1lrnbly lrn managing this front-office and managerial \Nllll 1wxt year.... positions. 
Lop('S rnplac,\d !'hi! Garner. "Anything like that is a slow tired in August with the team process," Lopes said. "It's headed to its soventh straight moving in the right direction. I losing s1iason. think you can see some posi• 
G1:neral manager Dean Live things coming from the Taylor, hired S(\pt. 21. t:allecl mandate cnmmissicrncr Selig l.opns· arrival "a turning handed down. It's never going point" for the Brnwers. to be equal ... but I think we're 
"It was quitn apparent lo us making strides." 
... that Davey Lopcs knew how It was widely assumed that 
to manage a big league team," the Brewers would hire a 
Taylor said. "It's his turn." minority candidate for their 
A respectnd baseball mind managerial position because ol' 
and an miergnlic clubhouse Selig's ties to the club. Selig­
presencc, Lopns had an inkling Prieb admitted the commis­
hemight be llrn right l1l for a sioner's directive was consid­
rnbuilding team getting ready ered. but said Lopes "was far 
for a mov,i to a new ballpark and away the right person for 
in 2001. the job, even without the 
Lopes' hiring ends years or directive." 
With Lopes' resume, it's dif­ficult to argue. After a 16-year playing career with Los Angeles, Oakland, Houston and the Chicago Cubs, he spent the next 11 seasons as a coach with Texas, Baltimore and San Diego, where he was the Padres' first-base coach for the past five years. 
Still, Lopes has no manageri­al experience except for two seasons in the Arizona Fall League. lie said one of his biggest challenges will be learning how to handle a major league pitching staff ­or even the Brewers' pitching staff, whose 5.09 ERA was the NL's third-worst in 1999. 
Perhaps because he has so much practice, Lopes wowed Taylor and assistant GM David Wilder during their iniLial interview last month. Tavlor said Lopes outlined specific strategies for improving the team's lineup and on-field preparation. making definite suggestions from his observa­tions of the Brewers. 
"lie was by far the best-pre­pared candidate," Taylor said. "He emerged very quickly as one the lop candidates. His philosophy mirrored ours." 
Taylor, Wilder and Lopes will head to baseball's general managers meeting next week, where they'll get started on the rebuilding job Taylor has said the Brewers need. 
Jim Lefebvre was the 
Brewers' interim manager for 
the season's final seven weeks. 
Milwaukee finished 7 4-87, fifth 
in the NL Central. 
Umpires scramble to pay legal bills 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

A day before a grievance hearing to determine whether 22 umpires get their jobs back, baseball owners said Thursday the union hasn't shown proof it lived up to an agreement reached in federal court. 
Umpires, meanwhile, were scrambling to raise money to pay their legal bills. According to a memo sent by union presi­dent Jerry Crawford to umpires on Oct. 6, umpires owe $123,261 to a New York law firm, $11.768 to a New York public relations firm and an unspecified amount to a Philadelphia law firm. 
A lawyer for the owners sent the Major League Umpfres Association a letter Thursday asking for a copy of the $100,000 bond the union agreed to obtain as part of a settlement approved by a fed­eral judge in Philadelphia in September. 
Under the agreement. the 22 umpires will be paid through Dec. 31, but if they lose the grievance, the money will be reimbursed from their termi­nation pay. The $100,000 bond covers umpires who don't qualify for termination pay. 
"Now that we are about to commence the arbitration", lawyer Howard Ganz wrote, "I request that you provide us with a copy of the bond the MLUA has obtained." 
Neither union head Richie Phillips nor union president .Jerry Crawford returned tele­phone messages. 
As part of the settlement. owners agreed to allow umpires to file the grievance claiming the 22 umpires were illegally terminated Sept. 2. 
Owners accepted the resig­nations of the 22 umpires after a mass-resignation plan failed. On Friday, they will ask arbi­trator Alan Symonettc to dis­miss the case, arguing that it is ., beyond the scope of his authority. 
The umpires' labor contract "clearly and unambiguously gives the league presidents sole discretion over such doci­sions," owners said in a legal brief liled Wednesday. 
Umpires retained Susan Davis and her New York firm, Cohen, Weiss & Simon, in August, prior to the suit that led to the federal court settle· ment, and paid the firm a $65,000 advance. 
While umpires originally intended to use Davis in the grievance hearing, they instead will be represented by a Philadelphia-based lawyer, Tom Jennings. 
In his memo, Crawford asked umpires to assign their· $20,000 postseason bonuses to the union to pay those legal and public relations bills. It's not clear how many complied. 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November 5, 1999 
Football 
continued from page 28 
The game came down to the last minute. With the Irish lead­ing 31-24, Tony Rice, who com­pleted 8 of 16 passes for 195 yards and a touchdown and also rushed for a touchdown, was hit hard from behind and fumbled. 
After Greg Mark recovered for the Hurricanes, Miami quarter­back Steve Walsh took the field just 15 yards from tying the game. Walsh had already passed for more than 400 yards and thrown three touchdowns on the day. It would take a phenomenal effort by the Irish defense to stop him from stretching his starting record to a perfect 17 -0. 
With their backs to the goal line, the Irish defense dug in and held the Hurricanes to just four yards on three plays. Facing a fourth-and-six from the 11-yard line, Miami was in trouble. 
But Walsh remained cool under pressure and lofted a pass into the back right corner of the end zone for a touchdown to Andre Brown to bring the Hurricanes within one with just 42 seconds remaining. 
[n the era before overtime, Miami head coach Jimmy Johnson had an important deci­sion to make: kick and extra point and settle for a tie, or go for two and the win but at the same time risk defeat. Johnson decided to go for the win and put the ball in the hands of his best player -Walsh. 
Walsh had completed 31 of 50 passes for 424 yards and four touchdowns on the day.

..... 
Sixty minutes of struggle and hours of summer practice r,ame down to one play as the two teams lined up for the two-point conversion. Walsh,. under pres­sure from Irish tackle George Williams, lofted a pass toward Leonard Conley in the back of the end zone. 
Walsh's pass, however, never reached its destination. Irish Pat Terrell stepped in front of the pass and batted it to the earth. 
"We knew we had to finish up on that last play," Terrell said after the game. "I saw the Miami receiver head into the corner of the end zone and just jumped in front of him. I followed Walsh's eyes the whole way. l knew where he was going to throw the football and I don't think he saw me coming." 

Walsh didn't see Terrell coming earlier in the game either. In the second quarter, with the Irish leading 14-7, Terrell stepped in front of a lobbed Walsh pass and returned it 60 yards for the Irish touchdown and a 21-7 Notre Dame lead. 
The lead didn't last long, though, as the Hurricanes scored 14 points in the next five min­utes. 
Walsh connected with Conley on fourth down for a 23-yard touchdown to bring the 'Canes within seven before he led a 54­yard drive that ended with a 15­yard scoring toss to Cleveland Gary to tie the game at halftime. 
Early in the third quarter, Johnson made a controversial call when the Hurricanes ran a fake punt at the Hurricane 46­yard line. The Irish defense, how­ever, was not fooled and stuffed Matt Britton for a loss. 
Rice hit tailback Ricky Watters for a 44-yard gain on the very next play before Pat Eilers plunged into the end zone from two yards out. 
Notre Dame's Reggie Ho hit a 27-yard, third-quarter field goal to extend the lead to 10 before Miami Carlos Heutra answered with a 27-yarder of his own to cut the lead to 31-24. 
The Hurricanes almost tied the 
game midway through the fourth 
quarter when Walsh hit Gary 
streaking across the middle at 
the Irish l 1-yard line. Gary 
turned up-field toward the goal 
line but was tackled at the 1-yard 
line and fumbled the ball to Irish 
linebacker Michael Stonebreaker. 
It appeared that Gary was down 
before he fumbled, but the refer­
ees ruled that the ball came out 
before he hit the ground. 

Johnson was not pleased with 
the call after the game. 

"It wasn't a fumble," Johnson 
said. "He had it in his hand and 
he went straight to the ground 
with the ball. It wasn't a fumble." 
The drama of the closing sec­
onds, however, erased any mem­
ory of a controversy from Irish 
minds as Notre Dame used the 
victory as a springboard to the 
National Championship. 


VOLLEYBALL 

Notre Dame defends No. I ranking against Syracuse 
By MATT OLIVA 
Sports Writer 
On Saturday, the Notre Dame volleyball team will host Syracuse in the last, 

-
home match of the season. 
The Irish, currently No. 1 in the Big East with an 8-0 conference record, bring a 15-6 record into the meeting. 
The game is the final career home contest for Irish seniors Mary Leffers, Emily Shiebout and Lauren Stettin.

-
Syracuse has had a rough season so far. The Orangemen's overall record is 17-11, and they are 4-4 in Big East play. Of the eight conference matches it has played so far, five have gone the distance, with Syracuse winning only twice. The team is led by outside hitter Rachel Watson and opposite Dana Fiume, who recorded her first career triple-double in the team's loss to Providence last week­end. 
"Their strength is in the right side attack,M said Irish head coach Debbie Brown. "Fortunately we see it every day in practice with Kristy Kreher. We also know lhat Big East teams arc going to take risks, serving aggres­sively against us. Our siding­out has been good and we will work on that in prac­tice." 
The Irish lead the all-time series between the two schools with six straight vic­tories, including a 15-8, 15­4, 7-15, 16-14 win at home a year ago. Syracuse's first and only win over Notre Dame came back in 1981. 
Notre Dame is led by Leffers on offense. She leads the Irish in both hitting per­centage and blocks per game. 
The middle blocker is sec­ond nationally in blocks per game with a 1.78 mark behind Heather Bown, of Hawaii, who boasts a 2.29 per-game average. 
Leffers is the all-time Notre Dame career leader in hit­ting percentage (.298) and appeared for the third time The Irish also rank seventh second in total blocks (529) among the nation's leaders overall for the second· and block average (1.41). in hitting percentage with a straight week in blocks per 

As a team, the Irish .275 average (17th overall). game with a 3.28 mark. 
-~. *
A1t-.::::-:eJ, Announces the •'ollowing Introductory Offers Of... 

D 10~ r---, r----, r----, r----, r----,
'4~ ~ I 10% OFF 11 $59 I I $24 I I $68 I I $69 I 
Aveda 11Coior,Cut,Style I I Cut & I I Perm, Cut, I I Hilites & I
I 
Retail IOne Processl I Style I I & Style I I Cut & Style I 
L---...1 L----...1 L-----.J L----.J L----.J 
Please use the Special Savings invitation and get to know us. You'll be pleased with the quali­ty and service we provide, and we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. 
We hope to see you soon. 

Not valid for spiral perms. Long or tinted hair add $10. No other discounts apply. Open some evenings. ATRIA Salon reserves the right to refuse service to any client whose hair condition is unsuitable. 
NEW CLIENTS ONLY 

Must Be Presented To Receptionist Before Services Are Performed 
(Certain Restrictions Apply) Valid with: Amy or Ariane Expiration Date: December 15, 1999 
1357 N. (ronwood Drive South Bend, lN 46615 Tel. 219-289-5080 FAX: 219-289-8804 
Friday, November 5, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 

WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish defend Big East crown against Pirates 
players that you have a han­By MIKE CONNOLLY dle on her for 89 minutes but As,ociare Sports Editor if' you have that one second 
where you lose track of her 

Tlw No. 6 Notre Dame she will put the ball in the net. wonwn's soccer team contin-Waldrum said. "Do you focus @s its defense of its 1998 Big so much that you take away East championship today at 5 from other things or do you 
p.m. in tho Big East semifinals just l'ocus enough to counter in Piscataway, N.J. against the what she does? It should Pirates uf'Seton llall. make for an interesting 
Tho Irish havn won ovory Big match up. We are certainly liast title sincn they joined the going to do our best to make confon•,H~P in 1995. hnr a non-factor in the game." 
Tho Irish facpd the Piratfls Irish head coach Handy nne11 alrnady this yPar and won Waldrum hopes that playing 4-2. Whiln the Irish arc a der.p-against a player of Smith's 1!r and more talnntnd tram calil.wr will prevent the Irish overall, tlw Pirates fraturn one l'rom looking pa.st the Pirates. of thn most dangnrous goal "I think playing Seton Hall smrers in tlrn ('.0Untry in Kelly and against a player like Kelly Smith. Smith. tlw Big East pre-Smith will help us lo focus for soason offonsivii play,:r of the ·-t_HIMfflnutcs, Waldrum said. "If v1•1ir, l11ads Snt11n !tall with 27 we don't, shP. is certainly the goals. kind of player that can give 
Slw leads Lho nation in goals you prohl_ems. In the first 1uHI has brnm named Hig East gamfl of the year she was cer­offcnsivc player of the week tainly a handful for us." lhruc limos in 1999 -includ-Focusing for all 90 minutes ing this w<lek for hnr hat trick has bef'n a problem for the and two assists in Seton llall's Irish in their past three 6-2 win over Syracuse in the games. In the quarterfinals Big East quart1\rfinals. The against the Miami Hurricanes, junior now has 76 goals in her the Irish looked sluggish in carettr and has a chance to the first half and went into the break Mia llamm's NCAA locker room with just a 1-0 rncord I03 career goals next lead. The Irish played much year. In their Sept. 24 better in lhe second half and matchup, Smith tallied a goal cruised to a 5-0 win. and an assist in a losing efforl. The Irish also had problems 
While Smith is an incredible with intensity in their last two scorer, Waldrum also believes regular season wins over the shn can be contained if the Wisconsin Badgers and the Irish stay on top of her for the Indiana Hoosiers. Against entirn game. Wisconsin, Notre Dame gave 
"l think she is certainly stop-up two quick goals less than pable but she is one of those one minute after the Irish had 
r-----------------------, 
I ~.,, 
NOTRE DAME

i SUPEII DISCOUNT:
: 8 1200FF
l ON ANY SPA! 
I A,ailabl, to all stud,nts and Parants wit/, this coupon.
haTEL 
I --.•i-------.__, 
(No ID Raq11irad) 

: ""'I.\' ® Valid S.nday -T1i11rsd11y -,,., r11lid for Sp«ial E,nts I L _____ ;!°.:_t!;i1_!7..:, !383..S.!!_S!_11!_•_:"~~"!_I!!_•~7,!~.J 
• 
Free Continental Breakfast 0~ -i." 

• 
Free HBO, CNN, ESPN \~~0~o" 

• Free Local Call, Fax_ "-\e, ~~~ 

• 
Kitchenettes ~1\" ,~~ ~1> 


Yb-" 

Must present coupon prior to check-in 
272-9000 

scored a goal. In the Indiana game, the Hoosiers scored the first goal in the opening min• utes of the game. The lack of defensive focus as of late has led to better focus in practice, according lo Waldrum. 
"I haven't seen any indication of that this week that we are looking ahead, he said. "The way this team has been defen­sively in the last few games, with the exception of Miami. we can't afford to be looking too far ahead." 
While the Pirates have relied on Smith for almost all of their scoring, the Irish have had the luxury of many scoring threats throughout the season. While none of the Irish have scored more than 20 goals this year, four have scored more than 10 with Jenny Heft leading the Irish with 17. Senior Jenny Streiffer is second on the team with 15 and juniors Meotis Erikson and Anne Makinen are 

Bumble Abode
~­
Need a comfortable place to stav while 11is1ting South Bend? 
. 
l Bedroom/2 Billi Hom. 

. 
R...onoble Nighlly,Wedcl)' R.509 . 2.5 Mlle, from No1n Dlln• 


third with 12. 
Makinen has enjoyed consid­erable success in Big East championships in the past. As a freshman and a sophomore she was named the Big East cham­pionship's most outstanding player. Makinen. like the rest of her teammates, has a knack for stepping up her play in the big games. 
"She is certainly a world class player, Waldrum said. "She will step up and have a great tournament. She always steps up in the big games. I think most of our kids focus better in the bigger games. I think sometimes we have the tendency to play down to the level of the teams we play against." 
If the Irish defeat the Pirates, they will face the winner ol' the second semifinal between the Connecticut Huskies and the Boston College Eagles on Sunday at noon. 
WIELCOMETO OUR 
... 
1632 N. Ad.mi Street 
SoL.lh Bend. IN 46628 
Toll frtt 
1-877-662-. I 29 fay & Barbara Brcwn 
WY,w.aps1ment-tech.comhwmbl<.hrml 
ND earns Big East awards 
Observer Staff Report 
Just like it has dominated Big East competition en route to a perfect 6-0 conference record, the Notre Dame women's soccer team dominated the awards at last night's Big East soccer ban­quet. 
All-American Jen Grubb was named the Big East defensive player of the year for tho second straight yllar -onn in which she led an Irish defense that held opponents to just . 9 goals per game. Grubb also became the first player in conference history to be named first team All-Big East four years in a row. 
Another member of that Irish defense. freshman Vanessa Pruzinsky, was named Big East rookie of the year and was a unanimous selection to the Big East All-Rookie Team. Pruzinsky was joined on the All-Rookie team by midfielder Nancy Mikacenic, who scored one goal and added nine assists in her freshman season. Notre Dame tied with Connecticut for the most selections to the All-Rookie team with two. 
The designer of the stifling Irish defense, head coach Randy Waldrum, was named Big East coach of the year in his first year as the Irish head coach. 
Notre Dame had more players named first team All-Big East and second team All-Big East than any other team. Irish seniors Grubb. Jenny Heft and Jenny Streiffer joined junior Anne Makinen on the first team. Makinen, who scored 12 goals and added eight assists. was a unanimous first team selection while Streiffer was a first team selection for the first time since her sophomore year. Streiffer has scored 15 goals and assisted on 13 others to lead the Irish in points. 
Heft took home All-Big East first team honors for the second straight year for her team, lead­ing the conference with 17 goals. Goalkeeper LaKeysia Beenn and defender Kara Brown were both named second team All-Big East. 

•Used 
books bought and sold 

•25 
Categories of Books 

•25,000 
Hardback and Paperback hooks in stock 

•Out-of-Print 
~arch service: $2.00 

•Appraisals 
large and small 


Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 
-
-
.... 



page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November 5, 1999 
Conway. One of the best goal­keepers in the nation, Conway has led the Scarlet Knights to an 11-4-2 record with seven 
shutouts,  one  of them against  
the Irish.  
"We're  not  too  concerned  

with the goalie specifically. Any goalie is beatable," said Maio. "He is very good, but we also made him look good." 
Conway's 35 percent goals against average in the Big East leads the conference. 
Defense is the focal point for the Irish in the second half of the season and continues to be heading into Saturday's con­test. 
"We're concentrating on our defense and working on not committing any mistakes," said :vtaio. 
"We need to stay focused and make sure that they don't score on us. Games at Rutgers are typically close -if we can get up a goal on them we think we'll be able to hold them in order to win." 
Irish 
continued from page 28 
So now we know what we have to do to keep them from scor­ing." 
The last time the two squads met in the Big East tournament was in the 1996 championship game in which the Irish had the upper hand and came away with the 1-0 victory. 
Rutgers has an impressive Big East tournament record since it entered into the confer­ence in 1995. 
Hosting its fifth quarterfinal game in as many seasons with the Big East, the Scarlet Knight have gone undefeated in open­ing round matches, with a 4-0 record. 
The Irish, in their fourth con­secutive tournament bid, hope to break the Scarlet Knight's winning streak. 
Anchoring the Rutgers' defense is goalkeeper Jon 

-
WOMEN'S SWIMMING 

Newcolller Kesteloot makes big splash for diving teaID 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE Saint Mary's Editor 
Freshman Jani Kesteloot may be new to the sport of diving, but she's a fast learn­er. 
With her acrobatic experi­ence limited to the gymnastics floor, the diving board and flips into the water -not on the floor -were a far cry from any performance she had ever done. 
The transition, however, didn't scare her.··,.s· 
"I wasn't nervous at all," Kesteloot said about her first competition at last month's Notre Dame relays. "There are a lot of similar elements, and a lot of divers are ex-gym­nasts. It wasn't a big deal." 
The diver's opening perfor­mance of her diving career, she said, was a success, but it didn't come without angst. Her skill preparation led right up to the hours before her first competition, where she arrived at warm-ups early to learn the reverse dive that she would be performing later that afternoon. 
"Ping [Tong], my coach, told me that I could do it," Kesteloot said. "She knew I was nervous, and she said that I had the abilites to do it. I just had to decide to go out there and do it." 
She completed the dive with­out error. 
Kesteloot and fellow fresh­man diver Jackie Kistner will be just two of the new factors that could propel the Saint Mary's swimming and diving team to a solid start in their first dual meet of the season Saturday. 
Sans divers last year, Kesteloot and Kistner could provide th team with one of the links needed· to secure a victory. 
Walking into a meet lost by only five points last year, the combination of divers, a strong base of freshmen, and a new coach puts an entirely new team together against an unsuspecting University of Chicago squad. 
"Looking at the times these ladies are posting in practice, they have come down a lot since the beginning of the sea­son," said head coach Gretchen Hildebrandt. "They are going to take off." 
The addition of mental train­ing to their physical training regime has provided an added motivation, Hildebrandt said. 
"Their mental attitude is right where it needs to be," 

cinema@thesnite 
Fri. & Sat. 7:30 p.m. and 9:45 p.m. 
presented by ND Film, Television, and Theatre www.nd.edu/~cothweb 
coming soon: Jean-Luc Godard's New 'Wave masterpiece "Breathless" Mon. 7pm 

she said. "We've set long term and short term goals both individually and for the team. Even in practice, when I tell them to set goals, I see their times coming down because they're working towards them." 
The squad is led by senior co-captain Michelle Samreta in the breastroke and butterfly events while strong perfor­mances are expected from sophomore Danielle Clayton in sprint freestyle events, and Lane Herrington, a freshman standout, in backstroke and · middle distance freestyle. 
The women could provide standout performances despite a lack of depth on the team, Hildebrandt said. 
"Our top one or two swim­mers are very strong in every event," Hildebrandt said. "We don't have a lot of depth, but those performances will be strong." 
Another factor not to be ignored is the 10 freshmen, who will compete in their first college dual meet. 
"We are so much stronger [because] of these freshmen," Hildebrandt said. "Of our top seeded swimmers, four are freshmen. They provide a strong base." 
Having chased University of Chicago's fourth place finish 
ND Law School Journal of Legislation Presents a Symposium: 
at Notre Dame relays, the women will have their work cut out for them. 
A month further into train­ing, adjusting to a new coach and acclimating the freshmen will put the ladies to the test as they open their dual meet season. 
But if critics speak of inex­perience as a potential influ­ence on Saturday's perfor­mance, the freshmen won't hear of it. 
'Tm prepared, and I'm not nervous," Kesteloot said. 'Tm out there to work hard. Anything that I can do to help this team I'm going to do. It's the points that count." 
' · 

States' Rights 
In The 21st Century 
Panelists: -Gov. Marc Racicot Republican from Montana 
-Hon. Robert Miller Federal Judge for Northern District of Indiana · 
-Dr. Michael Greve Executive Director of the Center for Individual Rights 
TODAY @ 4PM HESBURGH CENTER for INERNATIONAL STUDIES . 
Co-Sp.onsored by the Law School, the Federalists Society, and Student Government 
Friday, November 5, 1999 
MEN'S INTERHALL PLAYOFFS 
Fisher faces Knott in quarterfinals 
By JASON KROMPINGER 
Spons Write! 
In Lhis Sunday's second round of' the interhall playoffs, Fishor's matchup against Knott will feature a team coming off an impressive upset victory going against one that has h111m µrogrossing as oxpnctnd. 
But. as tho team captains say, oach tlmm deserves to bo thnn~. 
"Wlwre tnams are seeded really mean ll()thing to us in thnsn playoffs," said Fisher's sophomore defensive lineman l>ahx Marrs. 
Fisher is coming off an upset virtory over No 1 seeded Alumni. whos11 defonse had been unscored upon coming into that ganw. 
l)pspite tlrnir eighth-sPnd ranking coming into the play­olTs. Fisher is a formidnble match for opponents, with Sorin as thn only tnam to have scored·un thenJ. 
Practices this week continuPd to Im beneficial for the Grmrn Wavn, with plenty of' hard hitting. 
Tlwy ham continued to work on their showcased power­option offrnse. though this werk they have worked in the wideouts, m111wly rnccivnr Steve Doherty, on some plays tu mix up the olfonso. 
"SLnvn's our nurnbnr orrn recPiver; we'll bP trying to get the hall to him," said Marr. 
For the .Juggernauts, t.lw pra.clicns this week have f'ocused 011 continuing tu play the way they've been playing nil y1:ar round. A main concern of quarterback MariCJ Suarnz and tlrn rt'st of the team is how the team will per­form against Fislwr's option-dominated offense. 
"We've played against mustly pass-uriented teams this y'.mr,".;<;aid Suan\Z. "We have to knuw how to react defen­sively. 
Suarez feels that the team has matured in their play f'rom gamP to game. 
"WP just hop<' that we can continue lo improve, as we have bern improving in each game all season long," he said. 
Tlw conliclnnce level has already proven to be a huge factor in deciding games su far in the playoffs, namely the fact that too muc:h of it can ultimately be a toam 's down­fall. Two of the best teams in the league, Alumni and last yflar's champion Keenan, were upset -perhaps because ol' ovnn:onficlencn. 
"Our team has played with confidence in practice this week, but it's been a healthy confidence," said Suarez. "WP. fed wo can win, but we also know that Fisher is the toughest team we've faced yet." 
By STEVE KEPPEL Sports Writer 
As teams advance to the sec­ond round of the interhall play­offs. competition becomes more intlmse. 
Not only are the players' sea­sons and possibly careers on the line, now they are within reach of possibly playing in Notre Dame Stadium for the coveted interhall championship. 
On Sunday afternoon, the undefeated and two-time defend­ing champion Pasquerilla East Pyros will face off against a young and talented Cavanaugh team. 
P.E. 
definitely has the edge in experience. It is a team full of uppnrclassmen who have been in the post-season in past years. 

P.E. 
is led by the awe-inspiring play of fifth-year sr.nior quarter­back Elizabeth Plummer. If P.E. wins this week, it will be Plummer's fourth trip to the sta­dium in the last live years. 


"We are an experienced team, we have been there before and we know what we have to do to get back," said Plummer. 
Cavanaugh is quite young in comparison. . 
"We have a young team with only three seniors," said Chaos captain Mellisa Tacey. "Even though we are young we play really well together." 
The Chaos are making their first appearance ever in the semifinals. 
Cavanaugh is led by the tena­cious play of its defense, which provided a spark for the entire team all season. 
"Our defense has propelled our offense, the offense often feeds off of our momentum," freshmen defensive back Heather Hoffman said. 
The Chaos have put together a 
--------------------------------------, 
DON'T LEAVE YOUR SCHEDULE UP THE CREEK 

=·1N spring 2000! 

Registration ends 
TODAY -for French and Spanish placement exams. Call 1-6887 and follow the recorded instructions. You MUST register in advance, so be sure to call before 5 p.m. on Nov. 5th. Questions? Contact the Department of Romance Languages at 1-6886 or stop by the department office, 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL PLAYOFFS 
Pyro powerhouse takes on Chaos 

solid season, losing only two games, and have improved greatly over last year. 
P.E. is coming off an impres­sive 19-7 win over a talented Howard team. After a lackadaisi­cal start the Pyros turned up the heat and rolled on to victory. 
"This game, we are going to have to come in fired up right away. We really want to get back to the stadium," said Plummer. 
Cavanaugh defeated a tough Lyons team last week 6-0. The Chaos got off to a rough start 
but they managed to pull it out in
:he end. 
"Our offense struggled at the :ieginning of the game but we Jlayed really well in the second 1alf," Tracey said. 
"It took us a while to get start­~d and not having a game in a ~ouple of weeks hurt," said 'reshman Hoffman. Even though .he offense faltered in the first 1alf last week Hoffman said, "We tre pretty optimistic -we really 
are starting to click and work  
really well together."  
P.E. has been working hard all  
week refining their offense and working on the things that they  - 
do best. "Our coaches have pre­ 
pared us well and the team in  
general is pretty relaxed," said  
Plummer. "Basically. we need to  
win to keep playing."  
Cavanaugh comes into this  
game feeling they have nothing  
to lose.  
"Everyone is favoring P.E. but  
we have been practicing hard  
and it will be a good game," said  
Hoffman.  
"We are focusing on stopping  
Plummer but they are a great  
team and we are excited to play  
them," said Tacey.  
It is a classic battle between  
experience and youth on Sunday.  
The young and conlident Chaos  
will have their work cut out for  
them as the Pyros tries to get  
back to the stadium to defend  
their championship once again.  
-­ 



Friday, November 5, 1999

The Obmver . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
•·! 

.... 
-
-
-­ 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I  ~  
- 

Maybe you majored in advertising without even kno_~ing it. So you majored in English. Or Psychology. Or maybe even Art History. No matter. Fact is, you may very well have prepared yourself for acareer in advertising. At Leo Burnett, we're not interested in majors-we're interested in people who like to think. If you're the kind of person who likes problem-solving for the fun of it, who craves exercising both halves of their brain, and who wants to contribute strategic business­building ideas to companies like McDonald's, Coca-Cola and Nintendo, we want to hear from you. The Leo Burnett Client Service Department will be interviewing candidates at our world headquarters in Chicago on January 6, 2000. If you plan to be in the area, send your resume by November 15 through: GolRISH You'll be contacted by aLeo Burnett representative should you be selected for and interview. Questions can be directed to Career &Placement at 631-5200 So give it ashot-you have all the prerequisites.  0  
*  * *• * *  
recruiting.leoburnett.com  

------------------------------~--~--,-~ 
Friday, November 5, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS 

KEVIN DALUMfThe Observer 
Forward Jenny Strelffer knocked in one goal and tallied one assist in Notre Dame's quarterfinal win over Miami in the Big East tournament Tuesday. 
NOW OPEN 

Bombay Boutique 
Edison Plaza • 1635 Edison Road • Corner of Edison and 23 • Next door to LULA'S CAFE 271-8865 Monday-Saturday 10 am -8 pm Sunday 12 pm -6 pm 

Large Selection Of: 
• lAV\ique J,,,.esses1 skids1 aV\d blouses fl'4om casual to elegaV\t 
• t-laV\d-kV\it swea+ev-s1 jackets1 9loves1 mit+eV\s1 caps f1-4om 6cuado,,. 
• Bedspv-eads f1-4om JV\dia • Silvel-4 f""i1,,9s (.:\V\d eavv1V\9s 
• Shids fov meV\ 
• 
BvoV\ze Buddhas aV\d othev veligious ad 

• 
ParJyvus paiV\tiV\9s f,,.om 69ypt 

• 
JV\ce1t1se aV\d IV\CeV\se holdevs 

• 
f-laV\d-cal'4ved woodeV\ boxes • StoV\e cavvi1t19s 

• 
f-lcH,d-cavved maho9aV\y aV\d tecik fuv-V\ituv<e 


• AV\J mvtch move! 


Gift Certificates. Available 
page 25 

Streiffer 
continued from page 28 
championship trophy, Streiffer will be a big reason why. 
Throughout her four years under the Dome, she has consis­tently been a top scorer for the Irish. She is the only player in Irish history to score more than 200 points in her career and cur­rently stands third in Notre Dame· career goals and second in assists. Part. of this is due to her teammates but a lot of her suc­cess is because of her tremen­dous talent, according to head coach Handy Waldrum. 
"She is one of the best players around and certainly one of the best to come through the pro­gram at Notre Dame," he said. "It helps to have quality players around her to be on the end of the assists that she has given and to also give her the kind of balls she needs to score. I think it is a credit to her teammates that she has played with but it is also a credit to her." 
Streiffer has also enjoyed suc­cess with the under-21 U.S. national team. She led the team lo victories in the 1997 and 1999 Nordic Cups -the equivalent of the World Cup for junior women's sorcer. 
In 1997, she scored the game winner against Norway in the charn pionship and led the 1999 
CINEMARK lltEArlH S 

All Shows Before 6 PM $4.00 $4.00 Students/Children/Seniors $6.50 Adult 
Stereo Surround S()und in all Theatres 
Bats  PG13  
7:40 10:05  
Blue Streak  PG13  
12:55 3:10 5:25  
Bringing Out th Dead  A  
1:20 4;16 ];00 9:40  
Double Jeopardy  R  
1!as 4:10 7:15 9:45  
2:10 5:00 8:00 10:30  
Drive Me Crazy  PG13  
7:50 10:00  
Elmo In Grouchland  G  
1 :30 3:30 5:30  
For Love of the Game  PG13  
12:50 3:50 7:00 9:55  
House On Haunted Hill  A  
1 :15 4:00 7:10 10:00  
2:05 4:45 7:45 10:25  
Music of the Heart  PG  
12:45 3:45 7:05 9:55  
The Bachelor  PG13  ss  
12:50 3:15 5:40 8:0510:35  
The Bone Colleclor  A  ss  
1:10 3:50 7:20 10:10  
The Insider  A  ss  
1 :00 4:20 7:55  
3:00 7:05 10:20  
Three lo Tango  PG13  

2:20 5:00 7:25 9:50 
TGl!All liMIS Mt! FOVI CM AIWAN(f llO!T !Alll H•NDIW A((USISl! . NO PAlltl • NO 1,P£ll,l\1RS 
squad in scoring _with three goals 
and one assist. 
Playing for the national team helped her become a better play­er. 
"Being in high pressure situa­tions helps out a lot," she said. "It's so much more physical that when you get here it just seems slower and you don't have to worry about getting pushed ofT the ball as much. You get to do more things and sec more situa­tions." 
½'hen Streiffor plays, it seems as though she is playing on fast­forward while hnr opponent'> are on pause. Against Miami in the Big East quartnrfinals, she col­lected the ball at midfield and took off toward the Hurricane m~t. Sho beat. thr1m defondnrs olf the dribble in the blink of an eye before sailing her shot just wide of the net. 
"She is so dangerous with the ball on hflr foot," Waldnnn said. "She is so good individually at breaking people." 
The ahilitv to beat defenders off the dribble is something that she works on constantly, accord­ing to Streifler. 
"l guess it's something that I work on in practice and some­thing that I have worked on for all my life," StreilTer said. "It's just something I like to do." 
Streiffor began Lhis season playing midfield before being moved to the front line in the past few games. 
StreifTer feels her talents are better suited to the front line rather than the midfield. 
"I like playing up front," Streilfor said. "I am not good at defense so I don't havt\ to worry about playing dol'ense as much. So now I can just run around up there and get great balls from the midffolders." ­
Since being mowid to the front line, Streiffer has scored seven goals and tallied live assists in the past t<,ur games. 
"I think she has kind of found her groove for scoring goals," Waldrum said. "Earlier in the season she was missing some opportunities. Now we have made a move to put her up front rather than playing in the mid­field, and I think now she is find­ing her rhythm." 
If Streiffer can stay in her rhythm with the NCAA tourna­ment looming on the horizon, the Irish have an excellent chance of following her lead all the way to San Jose. 


-


page 26 
MEN'S INTERHALL PLAYOFFS 
Ramblers threaten Otters' upset bid 

The Observer . SPORTS Friday, November 5, 1999 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL PLAYOFFS 
Experience, youth clash on field 
By RACHEL BIBER 
Spores Writer 
On Sunday afternoon an atmos­phere of excitemPnt will be sus­tained at McGlinn fields where Welsh and B.P. are set to battle in order to claim stake to play in the season finale of interhall football at Notre Dame stadium. 
The fourth seeded Welsh Whirlwinds hope to assume the spoiler role by knocking off the top­seeded B.P. Babes when they face­off this weekend, which will require solid play by the Whirlwinds on both sides of the ball. Welsh co-captain Katie Rak has not doubt that her team is up for the challenge. 
"We are pretty prepared," she said. "We've been trying to keep our intensity up all week." 
Welsh's focus for this weekend will be to play up to their level and give their maximum effort throughout the entire game. 
"lf !B.P.] beats us, we will go out with our heads held high," Rak said. "But if we beat ourselves, there is going to be some pretty unhappy people." 
B.P. has not allowed for defeat throughout the entire season and has no intentions of letting up dur­ing this weekend's semifinal matchup. The Babes are mentally prepared for the game, and have proven that they are physically capable of blowing out any oppo­nent. 
"We are excited for the game," 
13.P. captain Katie Leicht said. "We've been working hard all year long and we think it will pay off." 
As usual, B.P.'s powerful offense, led by quarterback Jenny Choi, will pose a tremendous obstacle for its opponent. The key to a Welsh win hinges on its capability of shutting down the Babes offense and taking control of the ball. The Babes, however, have other ideas in mind. 
"Everyone seems really pumped," B.P. coach Kevin Shannon said. "The confidence is up. We're definitely looking for­ward to the game, and iJwe play to our level no one is going to beat us.'' 
A quick attack by the Whirlwinds might serve to spark an upset of the Babes, especially if the Babes exhibit a similar first half perfor­mance as they did last week, when they struggled tu play up to their potential. They turned around in the second half in their win against Walsh, but they might not be able to escape with a win against Welsh by displaying the same laxity in the first half of Sunday's contest. Leicht knows that her team will face a tough opponent this week­end. 
"We haven't played [Welsh] all year," Leicht said. "We don't know a lot about them, and we think it will be our toughest game so far." 
'f'he Whirlwinds also put in a weak performance in their first half performance last week, but came back with a vengeance when they rolled tu a 24-8 victory against Badin by putting together a strong aerial attack. 

If our delicious, flame-broiled double cheeseburger were any bigger, we'd need to buy more ad space. 
Nothmg beats our big.juicy Double Cheeseburger. It's got the great taste of flame broiling and has 75% more beef than McDonald's~Cheeseburger. 
(Price and participation may vary.) 
The HUddle -Lafortune Student Center 
.. 

It just tastes better. 
© 1998 Burger King CorporatiOn, Burger King Corporation is the exclusive licensee of the Bun Halves logo trademark, McDonald's is a registered trademark of the McDonald's Corporation. 
~--------------­

-
-
..... 
By KEVIN BERCHOU Sporr< Writer 
The road to Notre Dame stadium and in tcrhall football's championship contest continues this weekend as the second seed Siegfried Hamblers take un the sixth-seed Sorin Otters in semifinal playoff action. 
Siegfried enjoyed the regular season edge, fin­ishing first in the highly competitive Gold League, while the Otters still man­aged a strong third place finish, coming in just behind fourth seed Knott. 
The Otters come into the game on an emotional high, having handed the Keenan Knights their first defeat in some three sea­sons last Sunday by a score of 10-7. In what was easily the most thrilling interha!l game played thus far, the Otters came from behind in the last minute of play, as quar­terback Luke Beuerlein scored on a keeper, to oust the two-time defend­ing champion Knights. 
As always, the Otters will rely on what is likely the league's most potent passing attack to put points on the board. Beuerlein looked terrific in recent action, possess­ing not only a strong arm but an uncanny elusive­ness as well. 
In the Doug Flutie mold, Beuerlein can kill a defense while throwing from a set position in the confines of the pocket, and by making strong, accurate throws on the run. 
The Knights were able to consistently force Beuerlein to scramble, yet he was still able to make some of the game's most important throws while being flushed from the pocket. 
Beuerlein's receiving corps mirrored his own stellar play as of late. Led by freshmen star Greg Carney, the Otter wide­outs have given their quarterback plenty of good targets. 
Carney is a threat in the deep passing game, with the combination of speed and hands necessary to play the position and tremendous leaping abili­ty. 
Carney can be counted on to come down with the ball in a crowd and is usu­ally the target who Beuerlein calls on with the game on the line. 
The Otters may be forced to look to their air attack even more than usual this week as team captain and tailback Fred Faber may be out with an injury. In his absence, the tandem of Mike Crowe and Larry Burchett will handle the rushing chores. 
"We can't forget what got us here," said Faber. "We know that we're a passing team, so that means Luke, Greg, and Antoine [Tobias, the Otter's other strong pass catcher! will be seeing a lot of action," 
The Siegfried defense faces perhaps its toughest test of Urn season, but a strong unit led by line­backers Eddie Vulin and Rob Miyakawa looks to up to the task. 
"Our linebackers have been the strength of our defense," said Ramblers coach Jamie Bordas. "It's going to be a tough game, since not a lot of teams throw the ball. it's a dif­ferent kind of challenge, but I think our defensive backs are good enough to contain them." 
Siegfried's defensive backs will have to do just that if the Ramblers are to play another game. Led by junior free safety Pete Aguiar, the Siegfried sec­ondary will look to put the skids on Sorin's high­octane attack. 
"Our secondary is very good," said Bordas. "Our primary goal is to not let them hurt us with the big pass play." 
The Ramblers also pose a strong threat offensively with their strength, like their opponents, lying under center. 
Siegfried quarterback Rob Plumbly looked very good lately, leading his team to a 10-0 win over Keough last Sunday. Siegfried does not focus on the passing game, and it will instead rely on a strong rushing attack led by tailback Travis Smith. 
Plumbly is a valuable commodity, nonetheless. Plumbly, when called upon to throw, is extreme­ly accurate. More impor­tantly, however, is his composure on the field. 
Plumbly drew high praise from Siegfried coach Bordas after audib­ling to a better play sever­al times against Keough. 
"He's been in control," said Bordas of his quar­terback. 
The Ramblers' offensive philosophy is entirely the opposite of its opponent. While the Otters like to put the ball in the air, Siegfried will often keep it on the ground. 
"I've always felt that in order to win, you need to have a strong running game;'' noted Bordas. "Travis Smith has been running the ball very well for us." 
The Sorin defense will be guarding against any surprises the Ramblers might have. 
"We've heard that they run a lot of trick plays," said Faber of the Ramblers' attack. ''We'll be looking to stay in our lanes and have each guy concentrate on doing his job." 
This matchup of two offensive opposites figures to be a highly entertaining one. 
The game's outcome will depend on whether or not the Rambler defense can shut down the Otter pass­ing attack, a goal that has yet to be realized. 

Friday, November 5, 1999 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
FOURTH AND INCHES 


TOM KEELEY 
JEFF BEAM

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 

Fox TROT 
BILL AMEND 
HOROSCOPE 

48 Day break 

12

CELEBRfllES BORN ON THIS
49 Military 

DAY: Tatum O'Neal, Ike Turner, Elke
command 

Sommer, Bryan Adams, Sam Shepard 
51 Heavy measure 

Happy Birthday: Get on witli. iL If you think/ou can sit through the exciting an fruitful year ahead, think 
52 Hard work may 
be part of it 

again. Get your act together and start
54 B'rith 

anew. The only satisfaction you'll get
55 Actress Collette 

is from the success that goes after. Do of "Emma" 
your own thing and refrain from putting demands on others. It's time for you to take all the glory yourself. 
56 Feudal estate 
57 Alternative to 

Your numbers: 8, 13, 22, 29, 35, 46
elimination 
ARIES (March 21-April 19):
59 One of the 

Uncertainties on the home front 
kings in Kings 

should not be a cause for alarm. A move or changes are evident. Once you make your altetalfoM, -me 
60 Smart 
61 One of the 

existing problems will be eliminated.
Horae 

000 
62 Riddle-me­TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Fam­
(guess-book 

ily outings to the museum or other cultural events will be stimulating and rewarding. You will find that if
challenge) 
63 Easter, e.g., at 

you're active with the one you love, a
sea 

closer bond will definitely develop. 
64 Arctic sightings 

000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): If you have to put in some overtime, do so.
DOWN 

You wilf be much happier if you get
1 Wasted no time 

the work out of the way as quickly as 
in approaching 

possible. Do something with col­
2 Separation 

leagues that will help develop a 
friendship. 00000 3 Heavens, so to 1s _-Mart "God is with us" 
order 12 Get smart? 41 Hebrew for 53 "___ were you 
CANCER (June Zl•July 22): You will find the day confusing if you let
speak 17 Half in front? 44 Resinous 
the twmoil you are experiencing take 
4 Pillboxes, e.g. 21 "Later!" deposit 55 Hurried 
over and ruin your plans. Love inter­
ests are present, and you must pull
s" Vos Pree" 24 It's for openers 46 Nevada Sen. 
57 Tease 
yourself away from the stress and
(T. S. Eliot work) 27 WorldCom Harry~ 

enjoy yourself. 00
6 Like child labor partner SO Deadly virus 58 Tease 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Expect to
7 Sticks on 29 River of Hesse 

have problems with authority figures. 
8 Canvas site 31 Cream 

Stick to your original plans, but be 
9 One side in an ingredient Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
secretive about them. Don't let any-
age-old battle 33 Homage are available by touch-tone phone: 
-
beam.1@nd.edu 
EUGENIA LAST 
one curtail your freedom. 0000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-SepL 22): Don't 
take on too much. You will be taken 
for granted if you are generous with 
your time or your cash. Children will 
play an important role in your life if 
you let them help you with your 
projectll.000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): This is not the time to ask for favors or com­plain or criticize others. It is best to do your own thing and refrain from wor­rying about what others are doing. ­
000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You may be enjoying yourself, but overindulgence will lea~~v!:fset and 
ffl\anclal loss 1arer on. wtlf'be in your best interests. You will learn from the people you encounter. 000 
SAGITTARWS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Take care of any health problems. It's too close to the festive season to take chances. Don't make promises to the ones you love. Do what you can, but don't push yourself past your limit. 
0000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may not be the easiest to get along with. ny not to be too curt with your loved ones, and be prepared to work on some of the difficulties that have arisen in your relationship. 00 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't let worry ruin your weekend. You need to take care of your health. If your job is causing that much stress, you may be wise to consider making changes. 00000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will have great ideas for fund-raising events. Don't hesitate to voice :r.our opinions and suggestions. You will be well-regarded, due to your compas­sionate and giving nature. 000 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Chocolate shade 6 Entries in a family album 10 Blue 13 Poet's preposition 14 Prosaic 15 1999 Broadway hit, with "The" 
16 Bluto's residence, in a 1978 movie 
18 Field unit 
19 French 101 verb 
20 Part of a C.S.A. signature 
21 Factions 
22 Sounds from 
spas 23 Lose 25 Vetoes 26 Took the lure 
27 Brume 28 "You bother " 30 Granddaddy of 
all computers 
32 Laugh-a-minute 
34 Wonderland bird 
35 French revolutionary cry 37 Live Aid, e.g. 
39 "Symphonie espagnole" composer 
40 Chick follower 
42 Stock 
43 "Thou art the 
thing_": King 
Lear 
45 Red giant in the constellation Cetus 
47 Renault, e.g.: 
Abbr. 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
G I T I N E 
OOM 


Birthday Baby: Once you've got your value system down pat, you'll be off

1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute).
10 Gandhi's 36 Eisenhower's 

to the races. Your "play to win" attitude and good mental awa.renl!88 will keep
birthday, a rival for the Annual subscriptions are available for the 
any competitors you meet throughout life on their toes. You are resourceful,holiday in India 1952 nomination best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
articulate and passionate about everything you do. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at utroadvice.com,

11 Cold comfort 38 Court grp. years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
eugenialut.com, astromate.com.) 
0 1999 Univenal p,.,.. Syndicate 
Visit The Observer on the weir at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
' 
-






Sorin to new heights
-
The eighth-ranked Sorin Otters hope to unseat 
No. 2 Siegfried in their quest to reach the championship game. 

PORTS 
page 26 

O
THE page 28 BSERVER Friday, November 5, 1999 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Streiffer sets sights on scoring plateau 

Senior forward Jenny Strefffer is closing in on Mia Hamm's record-setting 70-70 mark. With 66 goals and 69 assists 
see STREIFFER/page 25

Streiffer stands an excellent chance of moving into the NCAA record books. ' 
MEN'S SOCCER 

ND looks to upset top-seed Rutgers 
By KERRY SMITH 
Sports Writer 
Despite a season of ups and downs, the Notre Dame men•s soccer team gets it done when it counts. 
Facing a do-or-die situa­tion in Wednesday's regular season finale against the Seton Hall Pirates, the Irish needed a win or a tie to break into eighth place in the Big East, securing a spot in the Big East tournament this weekend. 
Overcoming traveling com­plications that caused the team to barely make it to the game on time, the Irish, led by forward Andrew Aris, turned a four-game losing

.. streak around to earn a come-from-behind tie with the Pirates. "We were relieved, excited and tired after the game," said defender Stephen Maio. "We had trouble with our 
f'light -we made it there with only 40 minutes to spare before we had to play. It was a long game with rnal sloppy conditions so we were happy with the tie." 
The tie moved the Irish up in the rankings from the ninth spot in the conference and narrowly edged the Providence Friars out of a tournament berth. 
The Friars tied with the Irish for eighth place, but the final spot was awarded to the Irish because of their 4-0 victorv over the Friars in the regular season. 
With the regular season behind them, the Irish are focusing on their first chal­lenge on the way to a Big East championship: the Scarlet Knights of Rutgers. 
The Scarlet Knights, ranked 17th in the nation, come into the tournament boasting the top seed. 
The Irish and the Scarlet Knights enter the quarterfi­

nals with a history of mixed results. 
Rutgers beat Notre Dame in their only regular season matchup this fall by a 1-0 decision. 
The contest was close. however, and even though they couldn't put the ball in the net, the Irish found many holes in the Scarlet Knight defense, putting 16 shots on goal -twice the number the Knights registered against the Irish. 
"We know that head to head, we can play with them," said Maio. 
"In the game we played against them we outshot them, but we didn't capital­ize on our chances. We real­ly only gave them two chances to score and they were both very similar situa­tions. Once we shut down that option they didn't have another opportunity to score. 
see IRISH/page 22 
FOOTBALL HISTORY 
Irish top No. I Miami en route to '88 title 
Editor's Note: Notre Dame's juumey to achieve designation as the 20th century's greatest college football team is marked by 10 milestones. one in each decade since 1900. The Observer examines these moments in a JO-part series that appears on Fridays. 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Associare Sporrs Editor 
The past two meetings between Notre Dame and Miami had been ugly. 
The Hurricanes crushed the Irish 55-7 in 1985 and 24-0 in 1987 -both times on nation­al television. But on Oct. 14, 1988 -in a battle of unbeat­ens with national title implica­tions -the 31-30 victory over the Hurricanes was a thing of beauty as the Irish knocked off a No. 1-ranked team for the first time since 1982 en route to the 1988 national title. 
The win was especially sweet for the Irish seniors who endured the 55-7 thrash­ing by Miami their freshman year in the Orange Bowl. Irish head coach Lou Holtz called the resiliency showed by the seniors the "spirit of Notre Dame." 
"This was a win by the spirit of a group of guys who refused to fold," Holtz said after the game. "The spirit of Notre Dame was something we talked about all week and I congratulate our players ... It was a great game of two great teams who just competed as hard as anything I've ever seen." 
see FOOTBALL/page 20 

... 
• 
Women's Soccer SMC Volleyball 
Men's Soccer vs. Seton Hall, MIAA Semifinals at Rutgers

SPORTS 

in Big East Quarterfinals at Calvin College, 
in Big East Semifinals Friday, 5 p.m. Friday, 5:30 p.m. Saturday, 7:30 p.m. 
ATA • 
at Tennessee,vs. Qatar, at Nebraska-Omaha, Saturday, 7:30 p.m. 

Friday, 7:30 p.m. 

Friday, 8:05 p.m.
GLANCE 


i' I' 
' ' 
'' 
I 

I.
' '
'' 

NSIDER 
Friday, November 5, 1999 OBSERVER Notre Dame vs. Tennessee 

JEFF HSU and JOHN DAIL YfThe Obse,var 

Irish defensive end Lamont Bryant has spent his career terrorizing opposing quarterbacks and crushing running backs. This week, he sets his sights on Tennessee quarterback Tee Martin and tailback Jamal Lewis. For more on this Irish enforcer, see page 3. 
TV BROADCASTINSIDE 

game preview... ..........page 2 
rosters.................. .....page 4 
home: 5-r home: 5-0 
l!::::a.--n

VS.
focus on Tennessee .... .page 5 
away: 0-2 away: I-I college games today.. ..page 6 
game time: 7:36 p.m. ND time 
station: ESPN, channel 21pregame commentary...page 7 

'I  '  - ~ '  ---. I  I\  
I•  'I  
page 2  The Observer . IRISH INSIDER  Friday, November 5, 1999  

. 
game hype 


Irish brace for Volunteer onslaught 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Assistanr Sports Editor 

The Irish football team is fired up as it braces for its greatest challenge of the year -upsetting the defending National Champion Tennessee Volunteers on the road. 
"This game definitely has our players' attention without any doubts," Notre Dame head coach Bob Uavie said. "This game, of all the teams we have playHd, this is the best football team we have played.'' 
The Volunteers (6-1) are ranked fourth in the nation, with their lone loss a 23-21 defeat by the No. 5 Florida Gators. 
"We would all lilrn to think that there is some magic and that because of our tradition and because of our past and having been in big games in past years, you know, that we are capable of that,'' Davie said. 
The Irish (5-3) come off of four straight victories, but have yet to win a game away from Notre Dame Stadium. The No. 24 lrish must avoid their ten­dency to accumulate penalties and turn the ball over if they want a shot at end­ing Tennessee's hopes of becoming back-to-back national champions. 
Tennessee's trademark is its stifling defense, which has not allowed a rush­ing touchdown all season. The Volunteer defense ranks sixth in the nation in total defense, rushing defense and scoring defense. 
Lining up to halt the Irish attack are some of the top defensive players in the country. Deon Grant and Dwayne Goodrich are among the top defensive backs in the nation. Raynoch Thompson leads Tennes~ee with 52 tackles at defensive linebacker, and defensive end Shaun Ellis has 15 tackles behind the line of scrimmage. 
Notre Dame quarterback Jarious 

Jackson captains the Irish offense as a threat in the air and on the ground. Running backs Tony Fisher and Julius Jones have upped their output behind the protection of John Merandi and com­pany. Bobby Brown's fourth-quarter reception against Navy kept the Irish in the game. 
The Irish will have their hands full in containing the Volunteer offense. Volunteer running back Jamal Lewis has rushed for more than 2,500 yards in his career, while quarterback Tee Martin is averaging more than 200 yards per game in passing this year. Tennessee receiver Cedrick Wilson may miss the game because of an injured hamstring. 
However, Notre Dame's defensive line and secondary are each ranked among the top 10 in the country. Lamont Bryant and Grant Irons highlight the dP.fensivc end position. Seniors on the secondary -A'Jani Sanders, Deke Cooper and Deveron Harper -have come up with key interceptions and fumble recoveries throughout the year. However, Sanders is questionable for Saturday after a stomach injury suffered against Navy. 
Tennessee has a 20-game home win­ning streak going, and has not lost a non-conference home game since falling to Notre Dame in 1990. The Irish got the 34-29 victory despite 516 yards of Tennessee offense, 10 Notre Dame penalties and a fumble inside the Volunteers' 5-yard line. 
Bob Davie Irish head coach 
"I can't believe I almost went there [Tennessee]. ,, 
"J can't imagine another team that has better overall speed than they do.,, 


"We are excited to play in a big time game. We know that these are two great universities and 
Grant Irons we are just defensive end excited to play." 
"Anytime Notre Dame goes on the road to play a big time power like Tennessee, we have pride. " 


GO IRISH! Gc\m~·;:;DP.Y''~pecial ~~·~ Qt4 GAM,(~~r:f4LYl•· (Notre Dame vs. Tennessee No.yj 6-1999)·,1:arue :.ffri:zza Chee~e ··•..$t· 1 TtJpplngONLY ,,..S Plus Tax Whore Api:1 cable Et.CIL1CCS O nor Qr'crs oci,vary Serv,cc S1 oo i 11111111~111 P 1rchasc for Delivery Add,11ona1 Topp,ngs $1 20 WAITED Tll 'E OFFEP Avadable all Game Days South Bend South BendElkhartS.R. 23 52750 U.S. 33N (East of Ironwood) 1832 Cassopolis (N. Of Cleveland Rd.) NOTRE DAME AREA (Serving St. Mary"s) 243-1111 206-8888 243-1122  Visit us on the Web at) www.marcos.com ' Plus Tax Where Applieable Excludes Other OHan, D~l,.,y Stlvice $1.00 r FREE DELIVERY ON CAMPUS• Minimum Purchase For DeliveryL.: _._ --_::.6::.o,:t!.!!~ ____Ml!1.J ANY XLARGE PIZZA! Purchased at regular menu price. ... Pl.. Tu Whare .\jlpllGablo. Excludes Olhl!f OflBI, } Dell,ery S,,,ice $1.00 I FREE DELIVERY ON CAMPUS ~ • M1mmum Pu,chue For Oel'lvery m L: ­-:.:.e:.°':!'!!4! ----­.J 9  

' 
.~-----~~---~-----------­

I \ I I f i ,, I 
j ' 'j ' '\ ! • ' j',' 
' 

I' f' I • • I\ I ' , 1 
Friday, November 5, 1999 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
·-~ 
Bryant overcomes adversity 
. Fifth-year senior has emerged as dominant figure on defensive line 
By BRIAN KESSLER 


.,porr~ Editor Bryant 
W h n n it cam t~ ti m o f'o r 
position: defensive end 

Lamont Bryant to decide on a 
year: senior

colltig(•, Tnmwssrw was 011 top 
awards: Street and Smith's

ol' his list. Then lw nwL Lou lloltz. 1 999 honorable mention "ITnnrwssenl was going l.o All-American, Prep Sports
Im my No. 1 choice," Bryant 
lleport prep All-American

snid. "Tlwn I met couch lloltz 
as high school senior, USA

and I can't say anything aftM 
that. Once you meet coach Today honorable mention 
llollz, it's over. Nobody c.ould prep All-American 
comparn to him." 
notables: started as line­

So it was a done doal. 
backer in 1997 before

Bryant dropped the 
mov;ng to defensive line

Volu11tcwrs and was off tn 
S(luth Bend to play for an in £998 
Irish coaching legnnd. 
.. It's 1111t tho schools thnm­
snlvns. but. tlw 1wopl,• around everyday. PVery period. play 
the school." Bryant said. "I on a.nd play off," Mattison 
latchnd on to coach lloltz liko said. "I can't rmnemoer one 
Im was a l'amily figure to me. I time in practice this year that 
rnally liknd tho way lw talkm.l he didn't go as hard as ho can 
to p(\ople and I likod how I go. The Darrell Campbell's 
could trust him." and Cedric Hilliard's and the 
But tlwrn was orrn problem. young guys on defense see 
On Aug. :1, 1995, while on his that and they know that's the way lo Nolrn Dame for the only way you can practice ­start of' football drills. Bryant's to be as good as you can be." van overtunwd in an accident. As a fifth-y£rnr senior, IIn was thrown from the vehi­Bryant is nnjoying another 
cle and slid across the pave­productive season. 
nwnt. resulting in head lacer­"On defense he provides the 
ations and road rash. tempo and the enthusiasm," 
"That's tlw trial and tribula­the Irons said. "We basically 
tions of lil'o," Bryant said. just play off his intensity." 
"Yuu have to take il and roll Bryant is sixth on the team 
with H. The l.ord sparnd my in tackles with 33 and leads 
life, tlrnrnl'orn I go out there the team in sacks. But as it 
and do what I can nvoryday to has been throughout his 
t.lw hPsl of my ability." career. Bryant's accomplish­
Bryant couldn't practice !'or ments this year haven't come Lim first half of the season as a without adversity. result of his injurins and From the accident to setback didn't spe any action in the to injury, the 6-foot-3, 265­rnmaindnr or tho season. pound defensive line.man has 
"It gavti me a chance to maintained a positive attitude, grow off' the field," Bryant allowing him to achieve suc­said. "It gave nm a chance to cess despitti hardships. 
get to know my teammates "I torn some cartilage in my without thmn seeing me play. left knee now, so I have to Tlrnn wlrnn I got out them and fight through it for the rest of played, I built lhf1 rnlation­the season," Bryant said. "It's ships from an opportunity tlwre." to understand 
..You never know the last 

Four years that you can't later. Bryant day you are going to be take any days 
has nnrnrgecl on lhe field. So you have for granted. as an impact You never
to go out and giver zo

playPr and a know the last 
leader on Uw percent every chance day you are Irish defonsc. you get." going to be on But Im con­the field. So 
t.inuns to you have to go build rela­Lamont Bryant out and give tionships defensive end 110 percent with his every chance teammates. you have." "lie has berm a tremendous As a sophomore, Bryant help," junior Grant Irons said. played 10 games, while back­
"Any time I nn11dE>cl help. he ing up Bert Berry at outside has been thorn. lie is always Iin<l backer. encouraging me and making But at the end or the season, 
sum I understand the assign­Holtz rosigmid and Bryant lost nrnnts." his mentor. 
Del'ensiv1• coordinator Gn•g "It was tough. but you have Matlison praised Bryant's to make the best of every­lnadnrship on the field. thing," he said. "When coach 
"Lamont Bryant has led in Holtz left I wished him the the most important way I best in everything he did and think a guy r.an lflad -that's he gavo mo the same type of 
by working as hard as hn can, reassurarf'ce -that everything was going to be OK." 

Bryant responded with a breakthrough season in '97. In his first career start, Bryant recorded nine tackles, a sack and another tackle for a loss. He wound up starting all 12 regular season games at rush linebacker, led the toam in quarterback hurries (11 ), and was second on the squad in sacks (3). 
But in the season finale against Hawaii, he tore carti­lag11 and ligaments in his right knee, prompting reconstruc­tive surgery that caused him to miss tho Independence Bowl. 
Brvant recovered in the off­season, but faced adversity once again in the preseason. Ile was moved from line­
backer to defensive end, but as he has throughout his career, Bryant took on the challenge with a positive atti­tude. 
"I try to do whatever is best for the team," he said. "Whatever it takes to get the team going in the right direc­tion, that's what I'm going to do. It's not really different because you're still playing football no matter what posi­tion you're playing. It's differ­ent ,iust from the fact that a lot more t.hings are happening quicker. You don't have Lime tu read it, you just have to go out there und play on instinct." 
Bryant played with killer instinct in '98, leading the team in tackles for a loss and 
fumbfe recoveries. When Irons went down with a shoulder injury, he rnvnrted back to tlrn linebacker position to fill in. 
Bryant has been resilient throughout his career. When he takes the field against No. 4 Tennessee in Knoxvilln Saturday, it will be a tnsta­menl to how much he has overcome. 
"Every week is a chance lo provn yourself," Bryant said. "It doesn'l matter if you're playing a high school team or a college team, you just have to go out thorn and show you're the bott<'r man. That's what we all see it as -not as a challengP, but an opportuni­ty. \'Vn just want to go out there and prove whal wn havfl." 

birtlldate: Oct. I I, 1 976 a word to describe him off the moment: It's still lo 
hometown: Georgetown. S.C. field: reserved come. major: Finance/CAPP if I could play another position most prized possession: dimensions: 6-foot-3. 265 on the other side of the ball it sa/rlction 
up close & 
personal 

pounds would be: tight end Area he would like to improve the people who have helped me most stimulating at Notre Dame: as a player: selfcontrol WITH LAMONT BRYANT the most since I've been at Finance 380 my favorite hobbies are: Notre Dame: my friends greatest personal athletic playing cards 
I I 
t
I I I'
\ . ' I 
I 'I'
( ' t' 

page4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 5, 1999 

1999 FIGHTING IRISH 

IN POSITION: entire team 
1999 VOLUNTEERS 
I 
Schedule 
Schedule 
Aug.28 KANSAS W43·13 
Sept. 4. WYOMING W42•17 
Sept. 4 al Michigan L2fi·22 
Sept. 18 at Florida l21-23 
Sept. 11 at Purdue l 28-23 
Sept. 25 MEMPHIS W17-16 
Sept. 18 MICHIGAN STATE L 23-13 
Oct. 2 .AUBURN W24•0 
Del. 2 OKLAHOMA W34-30 
Oct. 9 GEORGIA W37-20 
Oct. 9 ARIZONA STATE W48-17 
Oct. 23 at Alabama W21-7 
Oct. 16 USC W25·24 
Oct. 30 SOUTH CAROLINA W30•7 
Del. 30 NAVY ·w 28-24 
Nov. 6 NOTRE OAME 
Nov.6 at Tennessee 
Nov. 13 at Arkansas 
Nov. 13 al Pittsburgh 
Nov. 20 at Kentucky 
Nov. 27 VANDERBILT
Nov. 20 BOSTON COLLEGE 
Nov.27 at Stanford 
third season at 
eighth season at 
Notre Dame 
Tennessee 
career record: 
career record: 
21-12 
73-12 
at Tennessee:
at Notre Dame: 
21-12 
73-12 
against Notre
against 
Dame: o-o
Tennessee:o-o 
Roster 
Roster 
No. Name Pos. HI. WI. YR

in Neyland Stadium. 
1 Robert l.ouderrnilk PK 6-2 175 SR
Observer Staff Report
No. Name .Po&. Ht. Wt. YR 

The Irish cannot afford to fall 
1 Joe Sourmilk KP 6-1 180 FR
1 Deke Cooper FS 6-2 220 SR 

behind and expect to come back 
2 Fred White OB 5-11 200 SR
2 Carlos Pierre-Antoine ILB 6-3 245 so 

When the Irish take the field 
3 Willie Miles DB 6-0 170 so
3 Arnaz Battle QB 6-1 215 so 

against the Volunteers. Tfmncssee is 
3 Josh Plemons QB 6-3 200 JR
4 Jornaar Toylor WR 6-0 200 PR 

Saturday against the Volunteers, the 
too talented and experienced to 
4 John Henderson DT 6-7 280 so
5 A 'Jani Sanders FS 5-10 197 SR 

offense, defense and special teams 
5 Burney Veazey WR 6-2 195 so

allow a huge fourth quarter come­
6 David Givens SE 6-1 217 so 
6 Tim Hurley WR 6-1 180 FR

must play a flawless game if the No.
7 Jarious Jackwn QB 6-1 228 SR 

back. 
7 Deon Grant DB 6-3 205 JR
8 Anthony Brannan OLB 5-10 215 SR 

24 Irish are to upset the No. 4 
If the Irish can play mistake-free, 
8 Joey Matthews QB 6-3 210 FR
9 Raki Nelson FL 5-11 180 SR 

Volunteers. If Notre Dame doesn't 
9 Steve Marsh DB 6-1 180 FR

then they have an excellent chance
9 Dwayne Francis DB 6-() 189 so 
10 Benson Scott H 6-1 180 SR

cut out the penalties, turnovers and
IO Deveron Harper CB 5-11 187 SR 

of leaving Knoxville with their sixth 
11 Bobby Graham WR 6-0 185 so
11 Jay Johnson SE 6-0 191 SR 

locked kicks, it could be a long night 
win of the year. 
12 Teddy Gaines DB 6-0 165 so
12 Tony Fisher RB 6-2 225 so 
12 Troy McMaken WR 5-8 160 SR
13 Nick Setta K/P 6--0 160 FR 


13 Tad Golden DB 6-1 190 so
14 James Caputo P 6-1 193 SR 
14 Cedrick Wilson WR 5-10 175 JR
14 Dan Novakov QB 6-3 210 FR 
15 A.J. Suggs QB 6-5 205 FR
15 Clifford Jefferson CB 5-9 182 so 
16 Brendan Patrick QB 6-1 200 FR
16 Glenn Earl DB 6-1 185 FR 
17 Tee Martin QB 6-3 215 SR
16 John Shingler TE 6-2 252 SR 
18 Gerald Griffin DB 6-1 192 SR
17 Joey Hildbold P/K 5-11 175 FR 
19 Shawn Seabrooks DB 5-9 185 FR
17 Jeremv Juarez FB 5-11 250 JR 
19 Alex Walls PK 6-1 175 FR
18 Joey Getherall FL 5-7 176 JR 
20 Travis Henry RB 5-11 220 JR
19 Jim Sanson K 5-9 187 SR 
21 Philllp Crosby RB b-1 243 SR
20 Gerome Sapp DB 6-0 210 FR 
22 Anthony Sessions DB 6-1 210 JR
21 Javin Hunter FL 6--0 185 so 
23 Dwayne Goodrich DB 6-0 185 SR
22 Julius Jones RB 5-11 185 FR 
24 Kevin James RB 6-2 220 so
23 Chris Yura RB/DB 5-11 195 FR 
25 Eric Thesing RB 6--0 175 JR
24 Albery Poree DB 5-10 185 FR 
26 Leonard Scott WR 5-11 165 FR
27 Jason Beckstrom DB 5-10 185 FR 
27 Josh Bourgeois LB 6-1 205 SR
28 Donald Dykes SS 5-11 197 so 
28 Dominique Stevenson LB 6-() 215 JR
28 Mike Grady FS 5-11 200 SR 
28 Sammy Gravano LB 5-10 180 so
29 Justin Smith FS 5-11 190 JR 
29 Mikki Allen DB 6-0 175 SR
30 Rocky Boiman OLB 6-4 245 so 
30 Andre Lott DB 5-11 185 JR
32 Terrance Howard TB 6-1 193 so 
31 Jamal Lewis RB 6-0 225 JR
33 Courtnev Watson RB 6-2 205 FR 
32 Matt Smith PK 5-10 170 so
34 Ronnie Nicks !LB 6-0 240 SR 
33 Derrick Edmonds DB 5-10 185 SR
35 David Miller K-P 5-11 190 so 
34 Travis Stephens RB 5-9 185 JR
35 Tim O'Neill TB 5-5 163 so 
35 Chip Walters PK 5-11 158 FR
36 Tom Lopienski FB 6-1 259 so 
36 Buck Fitzgerald DB 5-9 180 so
37 Ron Israel ss 6-0 205 JR 
37 Andrew Cooper OT 6-4 180 JR
39 Anthony Denman !LB 6-2 230 JR 
38 Roger Alexander DE 6-3 230 SR
39 ChrisL~k ss 5-9 192 SR 
39 Andre James LB 6-2 218 so
40 Jasen Murray FB 6-1 260 JR 
40 Billy Ratliff OT 6-3 275 SR
40 Brendan Farrell JLB· 5-9 232 SR 
41 Chris Ramseur LB 5-10 220 JR
u Joe Ferrer OLB 6-2 235 SR 
42 Eric Westmoreland LB 6--0 215 JR
42 Shane Walton CB 5-11 185 so 
43 David Leaverton P 6-4 210 JR
44 Grant Irons DE 6-5 272 JR 
44 Austin Kemp LB 6-2 220 JR
45 Joey Goodspeed FB 6-0 250 SR 
45 Will Bartholomew RB 6-0 230 so
46 Andrew Dempsey TE/DE 6-2· 252 JR 
46 Raynoch Thompson LB 6-3 217 SR
47 MikeMcNair FB 6-0 242 so 
47 Kurston Biggers RB 5-7 188 FR
48 Johnathan Hebert SE 5-11 199 SR 
47 Matt Blankenship LB 5-10 215 SR
50 Cedric Hilliard DL 6-3 295 FR 
48 Sammy Frogg P 5-11 220 JR
51 Tyreo Harrison lLB 6-2 235 so 
49 Mark McGuire RB 6-0 230 SR
52 Jeff Faine OL 6-3 310 FR 
50 Keyon Whiteside LB 6-2 230 FR
53 Lamont Bryant DE 6-3 265 SR 
51 Kevin Gregory OS 6-4 270 SR
54 B.J. Scott . C 6-3 285 SR 
52 Cosey Coleman 0G 6-5 315 JR
55 Jim Jones 0G 6-3 307 SR 
53 Toby Champion 0G 6-4 305 JR
56 Pat Ryan LB 6-3 220 FR 
54 Kerry O'Brien DS 6-4 275 so
56 John Crowther LS 6-2 245 so 
55 Clay Bostic C 6-3 290 so
57 Justin Thomas LB 6-2 230 FR 
56 Bernard Jackson LB 6-4 255 so
57 Luigi Rao LB 5-10 208 JR 
57 Travis Colston LB 6-3 220 FR
58 Brendan O'Connor 0G 6-2 292 JR 
58 Darwin Walker OT 6-3 290 SR
60 Darrell Campbell DL 6-4 245 so 
59 Judd Granzow LB 6-4 235 JR
61 Mike Zelenka FB 6-0 218 JR 
60 Chris O'Reilly OT 6-4 250 JR
62 Casey Robin OT 6-7 311 JR 
61 Troy Johnson 0G 6-4 285 SR
63 Brennan Curtin OL 6-8 295 FR 
62 Michael Jordan LB 6-2 230 SR
63 Mike Tribe !LB 5-10 220 JR 
63 Finn Pressly OT 6-4 300 so
64 John Merandi C 6-3 300 SR 
64 Ben E. Bunny WR 5--0 100 JR
65 Sean Milligan OL 6-4 285 FR 
65 Chris Kraly TE 5-6 130 JR
66 JW Jordan C 6-1 277 JR 
66 Thomas Stallworth LB 6-2 220 so
67 Ryan Gillis OL 6-3 315 FR 
67 Chad Clifton OT 6-6 320 SR
68 MaIt Brennan OT 6-6 305 SR 
68 Spencer Riley C 6-3 305 SR
69 Mike Gandv 0G 6-4 292 SR 
69 Ethan Massa 0G 6-3 295 JR
70 Jim Molinaro OL 6-7 240 FR 
70 Fred Weary OG 6-4 290 so
71 Neil Ambron OL 6-7 275 FR 
71 Reggie Coleman OT 6-5 310 so
72 Ryan Scarola OL 6-5 303 so 
73 Will Ofenheusle OT 6-8 310 FR
74 Rob Mowl 0G 6-5 295 SR 
74 Bernard Gooden ex~ 6-3 315 JR
75 Kurt Vollers OT 6-7 299 JR 
77 Josh Tucker OT 6-4 305 SR
76 John Teasdale OT 6-6 306 JR 
78 Tim Hodges 0G 6-8 305 FR
77 Brad Williams OT 6-4 288 SR 
79 Reggie Ridley C 6-4 270 FR
78 Jordan mack OT 6-6 313 so 
80 Eric Parker WR 6-0 163 so
79 Sean Mahan OT 6-4 285 so 
81 Edward Kendrick TE 6-4 240 FR
80 C.arv Godsev TE 6-7 255 FR 
82 Marcus Carr TE 6-2 215 SR
83 Patrick Reynolds WR 5-11 184 so 
84 Neil Johnson TE 6-4 250 JR
84 John Owens TE 6-3 246 FR 
85 Donte' Stallworth WR 6-2 190 FR
85 Antwon Tones OT 6-2 283 SR 
86 Josh Houston WR 6-1 190 JR
85 Mark Rule WR/QB 6-2 218 SR 
87 Oavid Martin WR 6-4 210 JR
86 Dan O' Lear\' TE 6-4 260 SR 
RB Jermaine Kent WR 6-2 180 FR
87 Jabari Holki'way TE 6-4 260 JR 
90 Will Overstreet DE 6-4 250 so
88 Bohby Brown FL 6-2 193 SR 
91 Ornari Hand DF. 6-5 245 FR
89 Gerald Morgan TE 6-4 261 so 
93 Shaun Elli.s DE 6-4 275 SR
90 Lance Legree OT 6-1 296 SR 
94 Ed Butler DT 6-3 255 so
91 N. VanHook-Orucker DE 6-2 271 SR 
95 Rashad Moore DT 6-4 290 FR
94 Andy Wisnc DT 6-3 270 JR 
96 Jolm Finlayson TE 6-4 280 so
95 Ryan Roberts DE 6-2 260 so 
97 Joe Reid DE 6-5 220 FR
98 Antl1ony Weaver DT 6-3 270 so 
99 DeAngelo Lloyd DE 6-5 255 JR
98 Erk Glass DT 6-4 252 SR 
9'J Jason Clung DE 6-3 267 SR 





I ' , \ 1 • I \ 1rt, , I t I I I I ' I 'f '' t t . 1 I ' 
. '. 
, I It , I I I

'l . '' . ' ( I I I ' I 
. I 
.

' I 1 ' •
I ' ' 
. I
• r 

. ' ' I 
Friday, November 5, 1999 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 5 
EYE ON THE ENEMY 
Martin quarterbacks diverse Vols' offense 
By TIM CASEY 
Spum Writer 
When Notre Dame !'ans glance ovcir at Lim Tennm,sne offensive huddlo on Saturday, they'll swmi.r they're seP.ing a familiar face. 
L(iading the charge f'or the Voluntners' offnnse is quartnr­back TN• Martin. Stanrling 6­fool-] and weighing 215 pounds, Martin may bn a couple inches taller and weigh a few pounds less thun Irish quarterback Jarious .Jackson, but their simi­larities am apparnnt once they step on the field. 
Both Martin and Jackson are in thnir socoud scuson us starlnrs. Bnsidns passing ability, they have onough speed and strength to make positive yardage out of a broken play. Both signal callers are also among thn bost athletes on th<~ir respective teams. 
"When you first look at it, thfly arc similar-style players," Irish head coach Hob Davie said. "They both can run and are strong and athletic. They've both been succossful. 
"Hoth of them are really good colingo players and both of them are physical football players," he continued. "If we were still in the era of guys playing two ways, I'd bet both those guys could do that." 
One area where Martin has the clear ,,dge over his counter­part is in victories. Taking over for TcnnAssee legend Peyton '.\1anning a year ago, Martin led the Vols to a perfect 13-0 record and tlrnir first national champi­onship since 1951. In his two years as starter, Martin has compiled a 19-1 record while Jackson is 14-6 at the helm of the Irish. 
A two-time SEC player of the wenk this season, Martin is one of five quarterbacks nominated for the Johnny Unitas Golden Arm award, presented to the top senior quarterback in the nation. 
For the season. Martin has completed 104 of 190 pass attempts (54. 7 percent) for six touchdowns along with eight interceptions. The Vols third leading rusher, Martin has gained 151 yards and scored six touchdowns on the ground. 
Martin spreads the ball 

around to all his recievers. flifteen different receivers have caught at least one pass this sea­son. 
Davie is primarily concerned with Tennessee's team spend. 
"You may not appreciate just how athletic they are until you watch them on tape," Davin said. "I can't imagine there is another team in this country that has a bettor just overall ·team speed than they do." 
In order to combat Martin and company, the Irish defense must play as well as they have all year. Defensive coordinator Greg Mattison considers Tennessee as the defense's toughest challenge of Lhe season. 
"They'll be the best football team we've played thus far," Mattison said. "They've got great team speed. They've got a great offense and big offensive line. This will be our biggest test but we look forward to it." 
Mattison feels his defense will be ready under the lights in Knoxville. 
"You can see the gleaq-i in their eye,·• Mattison said. "They're excited. They've been waiting for this one." 
. 
Location: Knoxville, Tenn. . Notre Dame is the last non-SEC 

. 
Enrollment: 25,612 team to defeat Tennessee in


fast facts 
. Colors: Orange and White Neyland Stadium. The Irish defeated 
. Nickname: Volunteers the Volunteers 34-29 in their last trip ABOUT . Conference: SEC to Knoxville in 1990. 
. Fight song: "Rocky Top" . Tennessee won the last meeting
TENNESSEE 

. Mascot: 8-'!l~~ey__ ·--_ 35-34 in 1991. 
Domino's Delivery 271-0300 
-
Store Hours: 
Sunday -Thursday 11 am-2am 
Friday & Saturday 11 am -3 am 



-






-


', ' ' ' ' 
,
. '' ' . ' ' I ' ' ' 
'' 

page 6 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 5, 1999 
..... 
Irish experts 

Brian Kessler sports editor 
(23-9) 
TENNESSEE VIRGINIA TECH WISCONSIN MICHIGAN STATE 

Bill Hart 
associate editor 
(24-8) NOTRE DAME 
VIRGINIA TECH PURDUE 
OHIO STATE 

Mike Connolly 
associate editor 
(23-9) NOTRE DAME 
VIRGINIA TECH WISCONSIN 
OHIO STATE 

Tim Casey football writer 
(25-7) TENNESSEE VIRGINIA TECH 
PURDUE

-
MICHIGAN STATE 
AROUND THE NATION 


Amp Campbell (center) and the Mlch_lgan State Spartans celebrate their Sept. 18 victory over the Fighting Irish. This weekend 
the Spartans will try to defend their home turf against the Ohio State Buckeyes. 
No. 19 OSU looks for revenge against No. 20 MSU 
Observer Staff Report 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 
The jump ball has been all but elimi­nated from college basketball. Unfortunately for Ohio State, it's still around in football. 
A year ago, 17 1/2-point underdog Michigan State stunned the No. 1­ranked Buckeyes 28-24, due in large part to lob passes that the Spartans' taller receivers were able to pull in over shorter defenders. 
Among the most vivid memories of that game for Ohio State coach John Cooper is the work of 6-foot-6 Plaxico Burress, 6-1 Gari Scott, 6-2 Lavaile Richardson and 6-3 tight end Chris Baker. 
"Their wide receivers, as I recall, made some great plays in some jump­ball situations," Cooper said. 
When the rematch occurs Saturday in East Lansing, Ohio State is expecting more of the same. 
Michigan State handed the Buckeyes their lone loss -and ended their shot at a national championship -when quar­terback Bill Burke took a short drop and unloaded the ball in the face of blitzing defenders, arcing passes out to receivers being covered one-on-one. 
Burress, Scott, Rich-ardson and Baker -all of whom are back for the Spartans -accounted for 15 of Burke's 18 com­pletions in 46 attempts, and for almost 300 of his 329 passing yards in the shocking upset. Scott had six catches for 88 yards, Burress four for 125, Baker four for 59 and Richardson one recep­tion for 23 yards. 
"We had to come in today as the squirts who had to pick a fight with the bully,~ Michigan State coach Nick Saban said after the game. 
No. 10 Wisconsin at No. 17 Purdue 
No matter how much Wisconsin head coach Harry Alvarez stresses otherwise, this weekend's match against Purdue will be more than just a claim for con­ference bragging rights. 
When No. 17 Purdue (6-3 overall, 3-3 Big Ten) hosts No. 10 Wisconsin (7-2, 5­

1) at Ross-Ade Stadium Saturday, expect all eyes to be geared toward the individ­ual battle between Wisconsin senior running back Ron Dayne and Purdue junior quarterback Drew Brees. 
While the respective offensive stand­outs won't meet each other on the field, this weekend's game provides an oppor­tunity for a monumental statement by the two Ileisman Trophy candidates. 
"Everybody has great kids in their pro­gram. [but] I don't know if you have any as high profile as these two," Alvarez said. "[Dayne and Brees] are guys in the midst of the lleisman race, guys who have made a tremendous impact on col­lege football and are team players. I think you have two unique individuals going head to head this week." 
No. 3 Virginia Tech at West Virginia 
The Virginia Tech football team faces more than the West Virginia Mountaineers. It will concieveably pre­pare for something worse -the Mountaineer fans. 
"I think Morgantown is the worst place to play," said Tech running back Andre Kendrick. "They might have the most hostile crowd I've ever been around." 
After facing an offensive onslaught from the Pittsburgh Panthers, the Hokies now face the prospects of going into Morgantown and facing an aerial assault more formidable than that David Priestley and the Panthers put on this weekend. 
West Virginia fans have been known to get a little crazy toward opposing team's players. Kendrick said he has been spit on and had liquor bottles thrown at him. 
"Somebody made the comment yester­day; 'keep your helmet on at all times,"' said Tech deep snapper and flanker Shane Reamer. 
The Big East is known for the tough venues the teams must face. The Carrier Dome in Syracuse, Veteran's Stadium in Philadelphia and Lane Stadium in Blacksburg are just some of the stadi­ums teams often cringe at when prepar­ing to play. The players said no venue is worse than Mountaineer Pield. 
,'';J;J;~PNZQS~
.. ,wri.o.·.•~ay poll
-----·,:,:,,::;_·:.,·::·' "·::::: ::.:.:.··;_·_:_,_._;,__,,·.;:c.>'­

am nc record points 
Ti:1 rld~ 
State (44) ·g.o 1,456 ,.., 2 .. Penn S1ate.(13) 9·0 1;424 .•· 3 nrirQ.ln!a Tich (2) 7-0 1,355 
4 .. re~ne,see 6-1 1,264 5 Florida 7-1 1,242 6 Kansa1rstate · 3;0 1,196 <p7 '!:: Georgl~ Tech · · fi-1 1,121 sJI IVll$$lt11Uppl State 7•0 1,032 
JI Ne.braska 7-1 1,010 ''"'Ill ''Wfsconsln 7-2 932 'l! ff · Texas 7-2 849 
12 Marshall 755
.. 8•0 il;J,3 .. BYU .···7'1 680 ,J4 ~la~a!l'!a tH 6G5 15 Michigan 6-2 649 '16 Georgia··· 6·2 62() 
<17 iastcarollna M 533 18 ifexasA&M. fi.2 481 .,+J~. ·!'i1!~tdo.an §'tat11. fi-2 400 20 0hlo Stale fi-3 370 21 Purdue 6-3 341 22 Mlaml(Fla:) 4-3 tl8 23 Ml~lssippl 6-2 146 .• .. 24 ./ll'ka.nsas •·•.•·.•· . ,,, 5-2 124 25 l9· "11~JSfipp! 5-3 109 
otli¢t.~e~ rsceti!ittg votes: Boston College 46, i••·•····~OTFIE !lAME3.~,•··Stantord.2fiI,·•Washington 14·; ·.•·• ~9tgpi~g ~I~t~ 11, ~ot~ra~t> 8! Kemucky 8, N~ state 8, 
~~,~~~• , 14f;l~. ?1~1zo,a ~. Oregon 5, Syracuse 5, ·•··•··· yan~ertlHI 1,. Vt.Michitian 4, Clemson 3,Maryland 2
·:•::::,-::::::,: . 
record points 
•O 1,732 <@i h9•0 1,683 7•0 •··.• (. 1,607 .. H .t507 •·M t47Q e 8~0 1Ai1 h .64 t,331 Slate·•· 1!·· )7-0· t,207 
\.Jfiv··. ,, ...••....,-74... 1\155 
:: ;7-t t,087 
7-2 996 tl-2 
Ira$ •. 8·0 931 .,;.5.2, , ,787· 734
pJ~~,~~:",,:: '.:II::,,.•::::!:L,;i:;·:11i~i•••·. 6~1 
602 
mw:, '' Eattcarollna ··· 74 594 t.flchlg11n.. Stat. · i6•2 472 459 
356
:;;''iwwiWi!:1iil!:~!'.''i'i, ······•···••.···•1;: ··•••·•::!' 302 
dt"e23 •·· Mi~lssippi• . 6-2 262 y;. ' 24 ' . NOTRE DAME 5-3 112 
::~:·••w25.,), ·Sotitllern Miss, 5.3 

.f-•te~m~P~;beivirtf{V?t~~:·... A~ansa~.81'1.

Ohio St. at Michigan St... .. 12 p.m., ESPN Wisconsin at Purdue........3:30 p.m., ABC 
. . on at;Bbston C~llege 30,Lo~isiana Tech

around 
,, +J1¥!'flln;n~o1al3,Arlzona l1.Colorado 7, Utah 5,

Mich. at Northwestern..... r2 p.m., Ch. 46 Miami at Pittsburgh........... 6 p.m. ESPN2 
~ 3;Dregon 3tWHtem IVllchlgan 31 Ah 

g; $viai;~$~:i.,.Q111gon~ta1fl·l,..stantQrd 1

Minnesota at Penn State.. 12 p.m., ESPN2 Wyoming at Utah ............. 9 p.m., ESPN2
the dial 
, : 
.
'\ 

. ' ' .
' 
'I 

Friday, November 5, 1999 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 7 
the inside 
edge EVEN 

• 
records: 5-3 A.P. rank: 24 
coaches' poll: NR 

1t 
records: 6-1 
•
A.P. rank: 4 coaches'poll:4 
Series Record 
1t
Series tied 
2-2 
1t 
quarterbacks: .!arious Jackson and Tee Martin are practically mirror images. Marlin has a better supportinq cast hut Jackson has a stronger arm. 
running backs: Jamal Lewis has not com­pletely come back from his knee injury in 1998. Julius Jones is set.for a breakout game. 
receivers: The loss o.f Cederick Wilson hurts the Vols but the injury to Haki Nelson is a bigger blow to the Irish. 
oflensive line: The Vols 
boast two returning Alf-SHC playPrs ;n 
Cosey Coleman and 
Chad Clijlon. The Irish 
must cut out the 
penalties. 

defensive line: The move 
ilt 
o.fAnthony Weaver back to defensive end 
makes this uni£ quicker 
and deeper. Grant 
Irons and Lamont 
Bryant rotate at the 
other end. Darwin 
Walker leads the Vols. 
linebackers: Eric Westmoreland and Raynoch Thompson's play has more than made up for the loss of
1p' 
linehacker Al Wilson to the NFL draft last spring. 
secondary: NotrP Dame's 
A 'Jani Sanders and 
Deke Cooper are the 
EVEN best safeties in the country but Tennessee has one of the best cnver corner's in the country in Dwayne-Goodrich. 
1p' 1p' 
.,, 
special teams: The way 
the Irish special teams 
ha1Je played lately, 
most high schools get 
the advantage in this 
category. David 
1'-Leaverton is a solid punter.for the Vols. 
01,erall
coaching: Phil Fulmer 
Tennessee has the talent
has led the Vols to a 
and the home field
national championship while Bob Davie is still advantage. Looking just struggling to learn the at the numbers, the No. 4 ropes. Davie, however, Volunteers should walk should take heart. Vols' 
over the No. 24 lrlsh
fans were calling for 
without much difficulty.
Fulmer's head in his first few sea.sons, too. 
But in big games, the 
numbers rarely mean 
much. tt~el~shcan
Intangibles: Notre Dame has nothing to lose in its score early and hold onto first away gam1~ in tu,o the football, they can 
months. Then again, neutralize the NeylandIrish fans remember the 
Stadium crowd and could
last lime the Irish 
walk away wilh a win. 
played on the road. 

----· 
IRISH EXCHANGE 
Big wins are common under Davie 
This gamo has been circled on Pvnry Irish playpr's calendar since lu:,;t spring. 
Little did they know the Tenrnissee game would be far more important than any bowl gamP Bob Davie's learn could pos­sibly play in the winter. Actually, this game will pretty much detnrmine ii' Notre Damn will have a game worth playing in tlw postseason. 
And tlrnn somo. 
A win would not only salvage this season -one in which the Irish went O-:~ in September for a 1-3 start -but also the Irish program that has fallen short of expectations in the last few years. Of course, no onn expects the Irish to win, nor do limy nxpect them to get blown out. 
Much like the program in recPnt years, the Irish are neither favorites for top lrnnors nor a program at the bottom of Division I-A. But a win against the No. 4 Volunteers will assure that Notre Dame's football program won't finish the millenni­um stuck in mediocrity. 
Winning big games isn't some­thing that Davie has failed to do since taking over the program in 1997. Notre Dame has been able to do that time and time again. The frustration lies in the fact that big wins have btwn readily supplement­ed with disappointing losses. 
Now is the time for big games to lead to something bigger, serve as a springboard to the next level for the Irish. Defeating the defending national champions would start that journey -esp(1cially if Notre Dame can finish the season without anoth­nr loss. 
The magnitude of' this game, along with last weekend's near-loss to Navy, loft Notre Dame with a groat deal of ground to cover this week. Tho Irish looked like an average lParn last Saturday against an infe­rior opponent at home. A similar effort on the road against a stronger, more talented and experi­enced team like Tennessl~C will make the Irish look far worse than avnragc. 
Tho Voluntners will look to cover tlwir ground on tlw field Saturday night against Notre Dame's defensP. Navy quartnrback Brian Maddnn was able to carry for 168 yards last wnok against a front line that needs to fill the gaps. 
Vols signal callnr Ten Martin donsn't run tho option as Navy's 



Madden used, but along with back Jamal Lewis Tennessee can give the defensive line more than enough problems. In the two games that Tennessee was most vulnerable ­its lone loss to Florida and a slight win against Memphis -it rushed for an average 2.5 yards per carry compared to a 4.7-yard average in its othPr five games. 
Of greater concern on the defen­sive unit is Notre Dame's average or 
226.1 yards allowed in the air per game. /\ similar lack of prnssure on Martin will give him the time and option to throw downfield or to find somn room to run on his own. 
Of course the Irish have an option up their sleeve, thanks to Kevin Hogcr's offnnso. ;\ big game against Tennessee is a great time to debut some new plays, especially with the speedy freshman Julius Junes just hitting his stride and the offonsive line finally getting consistent at cre­ating the holes. 
But all of this means nothing if the Irish turn in another sloppy game like they did against the Midshipmen. Why did the Irish only beat Navy by four points? Of course there are a number of reasons, but 14 penalties for 140 yards and three turnovers come to mind. If the Irish can barely beat a team that they have a 35-year win strnak against, imagine what the Vols can do. 
Despite differences, both teams enter Saturday night's game with hopes of salvaging their seasons. For a Vols team that is realizing it won't be returning to the SEC Championship for the first time in four years, a win keeps their BCS title game dreams alive. 
Tho Irish, on the other hand, are content looking further than this postseason and hoping they can make the big games count. 
The v;eu,s expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Many Vols chose Knoxville over South Bend 
By BRYAN MITCHELL Daily Beacon Sports Editor 
Many of the current Vols were recruited by Notre Dame and some even took of'l1cial recruiting visits, but fortunately for these Vols, they chose Rocky Top over South Bend. 
"When I got back, I told my mom that I wanted to go to Notre Dame," quarterback Tee Martin said. 
However, Martin ultimately decided that South Bend was just too far from his home in Mobile, Ala. · 
In fact, while Martin was on his visit. cur­rent Irish quarterback Jarious Jackson was his guide for the weekend, during which Martin also met Dwayne Goodrich for the first time. 
At the time, Goodrich had not yot visited Tennessee and was considering Notre Dame and Michigan. 
"Dwayne was pretty pumped about Notre Dame," Martin said. Goodrich recalls his trip to South Bend as being an exciting weekend. 
"They had, like, 22 guys in that weekend, so it was a pretty big wePkend," Goodrich said. "Everybody at my mom's job were Notre Dame alumni, so they were like 'Go to Notre Dame."' · 
Yet, Goodrich, an Oak Lawn, Ill., native, did not let the distance of Tennessee from his home or the pressure he received around Ouk Lawn keep him from attending Tennessee. 
"The players and coaches Iat Tennessee I made it feel like a family," Goodrich said about his decision. 
Safety Deon Grant, who is currently sec­ond in the nation with six interceptions, was also recruited by Notre Dame, but like Martin, Grant thought South Bcmd was just too far from his home in Augusla, Ga. 
"I really didn't give them too much inter­est because of how far it was from hornn," Grant said 
The star of' last week's victory over South Carolina, Donte Stallworth, was also recruit­ed by tho Irish, but opted to leave his homo in Sacramento, Calif., for Knoxville instoad. 
"I wasn't too interested," Stallworth said. "I don't know if it's a Catholic thing they got going, but I ain't really into that.'' 
Wide receiver Cedrick Wilson, who is ­questionable for Saturday's game with a pulled hamstring, was not recruited by the Irish, although he led Melrose High in Memphis to an unclef'eatod season his snnior ynar at quarterback. 
"As a kid, everyone wants to eitlrnr play for Notre Dame or play against Notre Damn," he said. 
It looks like Wilson will get his chance on Saturday. 

~~~------~-.------,------.-~~­
,-~ ~-~~~-~-~-­

~ , I ! l ' • ~ , \ I. I • \ • I I ' \ ' , ' ' ' I . I . " • ' ' , I ' . • ' • I ~ ' ' . f I . ' f ' ' J ' . ' ' ' , I I I ( I , 
I , I r • ' ; • I f ~ , { , f , \ I f , ' f . ' ~ ' , I I I , f 1 { I , , ~ 1 I I I I f I J . ' I' .. ' ' 
' ' \, ' ' 't • f . • ' I I ' ' 1 • t t • ' 1 [ ' , I • I ! • J • ~ • I ' • I t ' I I I
' ~ I I ' . 
• ' • ' • • I " 
page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, November 5, 1999 

Begi:nning in September, UNO.com will offer a subscription service called the Irish 1:nsider. 
The Insider will feature: 
• 
Bi-Weekly Bob Davie Column 

• 
Game Analysis 

• 
Player Diaries 

• 
Previews 


• 
Video Playbook from the Coach's Edge 

• 
Exclusive Irish Features 




Also included in the Insider Package: 
• 
Weekly Ticket G,iveaways for Football and Men's Basketball Games 

• 
Big East Tournament Ticket Giveaways 

• 
Bowl Game Ticket Giveaways 

• 
Discounts and Coupons for the Notre Dame Online Store 


Become an Irish Insider!! 
Sign up to become an Irish Insider and receive a Notre Dame t-shirtl The first 500 subscribers will receive a Notre Dame football yearbook! 

' '··-~ 

• Click here and f:Jef it a}I bY beeoming 
~ an IrishInsider. 
Irish Insider at UNO.com is not affiliated with The Observer. 





