
--~--·--· 7 
l 
l 
10 mot<e thiV\gs J hate abov\t yov\
Taking on the Tribe 
Monday

¦ The women's rennis sguad upset ninrh 
¦ See what the Scene critics had to say about "10 
ranked William and Mary rhis weekend, 
Things I Hate About You." 
APRIL 12,

improving irs ranking ro 15. 
1999

Scene• 12
Sports • 17 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 120 WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 
A NEW TERM, THE SAME QUESTIONS 
'/11is is the first of a three-part series examining the role ofstudent government at Notre Dame. 
Officers respond to controversy surrounding elections 
ByTIM LOGAN 
Nrw, Etliuir 
As stuclnnl body pr('sidPnt Micah Murphy and vicn prPsidcut Michael Palumbo prt•parP to Iliad Notrn Danrn's undt\rgraduatP population for t!w next yPar. t.lwy l'ar.n a 1JLJ1nb1\r of questions ahout studf'nt govcrnnwnt's uffm:livmwss and rnsponsivP1wss to 
Murphy and Palumbo a likl'ly target !'or contin­uml frustration with whal many see as Lhe irrclnvancc of Notre Danw student government. 
This frustration was mani!'nsted in the Fnbruary olections for student body presi­dent. Tho IO tickets which Murphy and Palumbo defoated generally agreed that stud1ml govnrmmmt, nspccial!y the otlice of the president. could do l'ar more to connect with tlrn students it represents and morn elfoctivcly advance their con­cerns to llrn administration. 
"It sncrns very exclusive al times," said Wally l'oiwr, a Zahm Hall junior who has run for student body president twice but is not involved beyond the ha.II govArn­nrnnt lcvnl. "It dnnsn't always represent students as well as it could." 
AcknowlPdging tlm pNception that stu­dent govnrnmcnt is often exclusive, the nnw administration hopns to combat this prohlern. according to Palumbo. 
"II' we lrncomc selr-intcrestcd, if we lwcomo exclusive, we shut out student 
sluc!Pnt corH'.f!rns. A rnputatio11 as gov­
'IFWE'RE SUPPOSED TO 
1ir1111wnt insidPrs and 
BE REPRESENTATIVES OF
tlwir closP association 
with fornrnr studnnt THE STUDENTS, WE NEED TO body prnsidl'nt Pnter 
BE WILLING TO LISTEN TO
C:t!Saro and vicn prnsi­clent /\ndrf'H Stdak -STUDENTS.' who wnrn criticized for rl'lativ1i silPllCP 011 con­troversial iss1ws whil!' MlCl/i\E/, PALUMBO in olTicn -makP­STUDENT l!NJON VIG, PnESIDl.iNT 
opinion," he said. "If we're supposed to be representatives or the students, we need to be willing to listen to stu­dents. If we become 
exclusive, we're not doing our job." 
Some say that will be diflicult, however, given lhe very nature of the organization. 
"I think lhe problem with student government is that it's sort of rotten at the core," said Luke 
White, who linished third in the election on a campaign that played largely on satire and a proposal to kill swans. White said that elected student leaders focus too much on consensus building and are thus unable to make serious progress on advancing student concerns. 
"I think student government is lacking idealism," he said. "Il has the bureaucrat­ic structure, but it lacks the force behind 
it... Other candidates agreed that student 
see ELECTIONS/ page 6 

The Observer/ Joe Sterk Critics have claimed that Student Government does not accurately represent the stu­dent body. Most meetings, such as this meeting of the Student Senate, are open to the public. 
Panel announces new leprechauns 
By FINN PRESSLY As.,i,wnt News Editor 
After a gnrnling s11ries of try­outs on Friday, O'NPill Family I lall sophomorn Michael Brown was named next year's varsity 

while fellow sophomore C..J. Lanktrnc1 will repre­sent tho olympic squad lcp­rnchaun. 
'Tm so Brown ,ixdtnd I'm just happy to rcprosunt Urn Uniwrsity to thn best of' my auili­ty." said Brown. th11 first Af"rir.an-Amorican chosen to irnrvc as Notre Dame's lep­rechaun. "You represent the Univ11rsity, the stu<lenLs, the alumni and fans all over the worlrl." 
Whiln Brown was acLive in supporting his high school teams from the stands. this will be the first time he has taken to the liuld lo show his support. 
"It's something J didn't plan on, until I came hem and felt the spirit here," he said. 
"llc's the most explosive, ener­getic person l'vll 1wt1r seen. I-hi has a magnetic charisma about him that I think will encourage the crowd lo cheer," said Jo Minton, head coach and pro­gram director of cheerlnading. 
Lanktree said he has had the desire to act as tho mascot for more Lhan a decade. 
"This is something that datus back to 1988, when my l'athcr and I lravnllnd to L.A. and I met the 1988 leprnchaun." he said. "My sister encouraged me to go out and show my enthusiasm. " 
"I'm very excited," Lanktree said. ''I'd love to take the oppor­tunity to represent the University, and I can'l wait to show my enthusiasm for ND." 
Competition for the position was especially tough this year. 
"We had nine candidates try out, which was unusual, but speaks well of the program," said Minton. 
Each candidate's tryout fol­lowed the same format. They first met individually with a panel of six interviewers, repre­senling everyone from the cheerleading coaches to the alumni association. 
In addition to delivering a pep rally address, the candidates are also judged on their ability to face the press amid the simulat­ed distractions of a real game. 
"Aft,ir the game situation is a media interview. The media interview is a radio or TV per­sonality who approaches the candidate and drills him with questions," Minton explained. "This year they were asked questions regarding if a little girl could try out for leprechaun, and they had to respond with the proper response -that anyone can try out and that it's just the one with most spirit and the most energy." 
Minton said that the media interview is one of thfl most valuaule parts of the selection process. 
"We try to simulate what it's like for the leprechaun," she said. "By putting them through this process, you can tell which one can handle the situation and which one can get the crowd going at a pep rally." 

Observer, Dome take top honors 
Observer Staff Report 

The Observer and Dome received recognition as Nowspaper and Yearbook of the Year, respectively, at the Indiana Collegiate Press Association's annual conference Saturday in Gr~iancnstle, Ind. 
The association also recognized Scholastic Magazine as the third place overall magazine in the news magazine category. 
~inning in the daily newspap<~r category, The Observer share.d· the hctnor with Ball State University of Muncie, Ind. The University of Pennsylvania's editorial board. winner of the Associated Collegiate Press 1999 Pacesetter Award. judged the. c;o:ntest and considered entries in ovor 20 catogorios to determine the winners. 
The Observer also had several individual category winners. 
Tl1e sti~IT of "Pridt1 at Notre Dame," an April 1998 three-part seri¢s that looked at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's gay and lesbian students and faculty members, received special com• menda.1.ion as the best investigative story nt the awards cere• mq11y, 
..lf,possible, I would give this amazing series lirst, second and third places. Wonderful profiles, great photos. An in• depth look at Notre Dame's gay and lesbian community," said vic<;iprosidentof newspapers Melissa Vogt. citing judges com· ments. 
]'.h~ staff included Michelle Krupa, Rob Finch, Heather 
see ICPA / page 4 

page 2 The Observer• INSIDE Monday, April 12, 1999 
¦ INSIDE COLUMN 
Blante it on 
the rain 
I'd like to blame it on thn rain. Or the wind. Or the fact that we were playing under the lights and not under the bright sunshine. 
I'd like to think that my bookstore team 
could have won under  Mike Connolly  
different circumstances.  A.ssociate Spom Editor  
I wish I could believe  
that it was poor weather  

conditions and not poor shooting that spelled 
our dnom. I want to say that because the ball 
was wet. I put up enough bricks to construct 
another building that some rich alumnus can 
slap his name rm. 

Maybe I should blame my teainmates. I should tell everyone how great I played. How I pulled my weight by scoring three ur om 12 glorious points. I should tell everyone how I was held back by my teammates. They didn't give me the rock enough. They didn't call out the screens or switch up on defense. They missBd too many shots and didn't get enough rebounds. 
It's all their fault. 

Maybe it's the other team's fault. They had to reschndule the game. They wanted to play at night instead of our regularly scheduled time. WA wAre ready to play at 12:30. It's because we had to play seven hours later that we lost. Yeah, that's it. It's all their fault 
Or maybe, I should shut up and accept my defeat. 
I should accept the fact that I have no game. The closest rwill ever get to dunking is when I eat Oreos. When I leave the Rock after a night of basketball. the maintenance crew has to come out and repaint and straighten the rims from my shots clanking off all night. 
Yeah that's it. I stink so my teammates had to step up and they didn't. It's really their fault. 
I would blame the refs but there weren't any. Maybe there should have been refs. It's the Bookstore Commissioners' fault. They didn't provide the refs that were needed. If we had refs, we would have won. 
Maybe I should remember the words of Lou Holtz in "The Fighting Spirit:" "There are 1,000 reasons for failure but not a single excuse." 
It's easy to make up excuses. It's easy to blame others or concede defeat because the going was tough. 
If you look hard enough, there is always a reason why you won't succeed. Anyone can tell you why you aren't good enough, fast enough, smart enough or strong enough. If you listen long enough you can always con­vince yourself that the blame belongs on oth­ers. 
Reasons for failure are a dime-a-dozen. But if you don't put these reasons behind you and just do your job, you will never succeed. The more you look for excuses, the more likely you will find them. 
It is when we ignore these excuses and bat­tle past our faults that we succeed. 
I accept our defeat. I accept that we got crushed. We got out-shot, out-rebounded and out-dribbled. I took some awful shots, made bad passes and had too many turnovers. 1 was a part of the team and I accept responsi­bility for my team's defeat. 
But I wouldn't trade my team for any other team in the world. Other teams shoot better, dribble lower and play stronger defense. But I love my team. I wouldn't trade our glorious defeat for all the wins in the world. 
But next year. there is always next year. Nobody will stop us next year. And if we go down in the first round again, there will still be no excuses. 
The 1Jiews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
¦ TooAv'sSTAFF 

News Scene Finn Pressly Julie Hamilrnn Maureen Smithe Mike Vanegas Erica The.ing Graphics 
Sports Scott Hardy Kati Miller Production Viewpoint Kathleen Lopez 
Mary Margaret Nussbaum Noah Amscadrer Meghan Hurley Lab Tech Bob Exconde 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is publi,hed Mond•y through Friday ci,;cc:pc during exam atid vac3rion perjods. The Observer is a mrmhc:r of th~ Associated. Press. Ail rcp,roduction rights an: re.served. 




utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Yale undergraduates prefer to function with less sleep 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. 
Sleep was named the "new status symbol" for business executives in a recent article in the Wall Street Journal. 
Perhaps students will embrace this idP.a as they enter the business commu­nity, but as undergraduates, many say that they prefer to get by on as little sleep as possible. 
In order lo be fully alert, college stu­dents require about nine and a half hours of sleep, said Dr. James Maas, a psychologist at Cornell University. Most college students get six hours of sleep, h~ s~id, making thorn "walking zom­bies. 
Many Yale undergraduates say they can function on four or five hours, and that sleep is just not a priority for them. 
"You can do three things when you come to Yale," said freshman Allan Roth. "You can sleep, work or have a 

Hoth said he does notice that he is less able to concentrate in class when he docs not sleep. Sophomore Elliot Lewis, who gets between live and six hours of sleep each night, also said that his work is impacted by his sleeping patterns. 
"l don't think that 1 work at 100 per­cent," he said. "But I'm functional for a period of' time." 
Mam;, the author of "Power Sleep," a book on sleep and work performance, said he questions just how functional students who sleep so little really are. "Without nine and half' hours of sleep," he said, "it means you have your body in the classroom, but your mind is on your pillow." 
While he said that some people are genetically capable of getting slightly less slonp, he has tested students who sleep little and say they are not tired. Thirty-four percent of those tested, he said, were "in the twilight zone." 
Freshman Hoberto Sabater said he usually gets a good amount of sleep, but there are weeks when he sleeps for only a few hours over sewmtl days. He said that he is still able to conceutrate in class, however. 
Kirsten Boyd of the National Sleep Foundation said erratic sleep habits like Sabater's are very damaging to people's ability to function properly. 
"You must establish a regular bed timr. and wake schedule," she said. 

¦ Ut~IVERSiTY Of NEBRASl<A Religous groups targeting students 
LINCOLN, Neb. 

They were friendly, hugged him and told him that he belonged. But Christopher Measel didn't know that belong­ing would cost him so much. Last spring, Mease!, a fresh­man biology major at the time, attended a service of the Greater Church of Christ in Omaha. He joined the church, which meets at the Westside Community Center in Omaha, and became an active member. That, he said, is when the problems began. "They had too much control over people's life," Mease! said. "They were with me constantly." College students such as Mease! are an easy target for cults and other religious groups because they are in a new environ­ment, said Rev. Bill Steinbauer, pastor at the University Lutheran Chapel. Hugh Whitt, a University of Nebraska­Lincoln sociology professor, called the university setting a "religious marketplace" for religious groups trying to recruit new members. 
¦ UM!VERS!TY OF CAUFORfi!A FBI probes possible espionage in labs 
BERKELEY, Calif. 
Chinese spies may have stolen top-secret neutron 
bomb designs from another University of California lab­
oratory -marking the second report of possible 
nuclear technology leakage in less than a month. A 
United States spy stationed in China told officials in 
1996 that he heard Chinese intelligence officials boast­
ing that U.S. nuclear secrets stolen from the UC-run 
Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory aided their 
development of a neutron bomb, the New York Times 
reported Thursday. According to the report, China, 
using stolen technology from the Livermore lab, had 
attempted to build and test the neutron bomb in the 
1980s. The 1988 attempt failed, however, and Chinese 
spies returned to the United States in 1995 and stole 
more confidential information from the laboratory, the 
report said. 
¦ UNIVERSITY OF NEVADA-LAS VEGAS STD testing increases after spring break 
LAS VEGAS 
Staff at the Student Health Services Center arc gearing up for an increase in tests for pregnancy and sexually transmitted diseases typical two to three weeks after spring break. "We just kind of expect it from experience," said Lori Winchell, director of Student Health Services. Human Immunodeficiency Virus testing booms shortly after spring break, according to Jason Butts, UNLV health educator. The test requires a short HIV class which goes from an estimated average of 10 to 12 people per class­during the year, then jumps to 18 to 20 people after spring break. "That's like clockwork. The Tuesday and Thursday (class) after spring break is loaded with people," he said. UNLV statistics show that chlamydia and preg­nancy testing were highest during April 1997. Spring break that year took place during the last two week of March. 
¦ NoFm-¾WESTEIUJ UNIVERSITY Students prepare for College Jeopardy 
EVANSTON, Ill. 
Like many Northwestern University students, Whitney Owens and Paul Marchegiani have spent years impressing their friends and family by shouting out the right ques­tions while watching "Jeopardy!" But this weekend, they won't just be shouting at a screen. Twenty-five thousand dollars will be on the line, and they'll be asking their questions to Alex Trebek. Owens, a Weinberg senior, and Marchegiani, a music major, each beat out more than 1,500 other college students nationwide to win one of 15 spots in the "Jeopardy!" College Championship this week­end at the Rosemont Theatre. 'Tm really stoked about it," Marchegiani said. "The whole thing is kind of surreal." Owens said she is particularly excited about appearing on "Jeopardy!" because it's her favorite game show. "One of my friends said he was tired of me beating him and his roommates at Nintendo 'Jeopardy!"' Owens said. 

¦ LOCAL WEATHER ¦ NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather 8 forecast for duytime conditions and high temperatures 
H L 
Monday ~51 36 Tuesday ~55 31 Wednesday~ 56 3«> .. 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Monday, Apr. 12. Lines separate high temperature zones !or the day, 
.........-r 
01999 AecuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 

'"""" 
® © El D D D CJ] 0 ·~ @l!il'f)
.
High Low Showers Rain T-atorme Flurrln Snuw Ice Sunnv Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via Ass~111ed Press 
Albuquerque 59 33 Columbus 60 34 L1t11e Rock 80 61 Aspen 38 14 Ft. Lauderdale 89 68 Los Angeles 64 45


q_Q,(;f~/ff~Q (f ~ u 
Austin 87 66 Honolulu 81 67 Oklahoma City 73 46 

Showers T-sforms Ram Ftumes Snow Ice Sunny Pf. Cloudy Cloudy 
Charlotte 80 54 Las Vegas 61 39 Portland 53 36 

V/8 AS.!focia1ed Press Graph1csNet 
Chicago 56 36 Lexington 64 42 New York 70 60 


Momlay, April 12, 1999 The Observer. CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
-------~ -­


Former Dutch Prime Minister addresses democracy 
Hy ERICA Tl IESING 
l\..,,rn. i,HC' N<.·W.\ Editor 
Ch 1•islia11 d1\11101-racy can only have a l'utun• wlwn ii n•cogni:tPs that humanity must. cor1fro11t cl1a11g1:s in tcclrnology, Pconomics and 11tlwr pri11dplcs of' global­ization, saicl Hllll(I l.11blJ1•rs, fornwr prim1• 111i11isll'r of' Llin N1•Llwrl,lllds, l,.riday. 
l.ulilH•rs. who dc•liw•n:d tlrn k·cvnol1• address at tlw w1\c'k<1nd's Christian l>P11101Tai:y in 1•:urnpn a1HI Lalin !\111nri1·a 1·1111f1wnru·c. 1•xplai1wd lhal tlw roncPpl of' gloll1Llizat.io11 i1wl11dc!s vvorldwid,· c:01n­
1111111icatio11 via lechnolugy, worldwi<lo tr11rlo aml invcslmnnl. and changes in politicul ideology. 
IIn add11cl lhat that som<llhing rn1eds to lw d01rn to addrPss continued cynicism ,rnd margirrnlizaLion. 
"Wn nned a new archit<icturn to (:opn with thmm problnms," lrn said. 
Lubbers urgi\d his ,wdi,\ncc to f'ocus less on thn shortcomings of politicians and morr on how each pt)rson can r.on­lributt' lo llrn solulions. 
"Be (HesPnt in society, dol'nnd and practice values. prnssurn institutions likn business to humanize mankind," he said. 

While both cyniclsm and indifferoncn arn troublnsomo, Lubbers said that he is morn concerned with indiff(irnnce. lie urged Christian democrats to return to their mot., and slre11gthen Lh1imsdves for thn futurn. 
"The l'uturo is always about changn," he said. "Tho only way to do so is lo accnpt that W<:' haVI~ lo ch;rngn oursnlv<:s and wn have to change together." 
Lubbers also oxpressed optimism about technology such as the lntPrmit that con­1wcts people from all over tlrn world. lln said that this should lead to a rcspnct of cultural dill'erences and an appreciation of' diversity. 
"Tlrnre is enormous opportunity in cul­tural clivPrsity," Lubbers said. "Thero arc such riches in tlrn divorsity of this world." 
lie said Christian democracy should unvor be afraid to lislon to otlwrs or lo rnach out to a variety ol' penph•. 
"l think it's doable," Lubbnrs said. 
Lubbers also 11xplai11Pd that tl111r1! are deficits to democracy, especially in the rogards to socurily, and that tlrnrn arn social and Pnvironmental factors 111111 contributo to tlrn problem. 
Aftor World War II, security mnant prn\'tmting violence bntwnen nation­states, he said. Violenco within nalion­statns. howevnr, was something in which other nations did not become involved. 
"Today we talk about Kosovo and wo am rnally conl'uscd." said Lubbers, who explained that such international intnr­vnntion is different from previous umlor­standings of security. 
Part of this relates to cynicism, he oxplaincd. Lubbers usod the oxamplo of a family watching the news and seeing devastation in Kosovo and thnn criticiz­ing their politicians for not becoming involved. Three weeks later, Lubbers said, the same family hears that their prosidont has initiated bombing raids in that country and they criticize their lead­ors for naivete. 
Lubbers also discussnd the role of non­governmental organizations (NGOI in thn m!w world structt1rP. fin said that global­ization leads to 1ww inslitulions. 
"By institutions I moan that pnopln organize 1lwmselves. For exam pl1\, in 11011-pl'of1t organizations WP Se(\ O!IOl'­1110llS growth around l.1111 world," Lubbers said, adding that this is nspncial­ly true in mature market nr.onomiPs. 
111\ 1:xplained that t.hesci organizations have a rol<) in improving quality of lifo. Whilo ilrnir organizational skills am important, them is another factor. 
"What wti snn l.oday as wnll is Lhat lhny havn to start to prnssurizn, to put prns­sure to, tlw transnational com panins," Lubbers said. 
In this way, tlH! NGOs play 1.t rol,i in holding corporations rnspo11sibl1\ for lhnir actions around llw glolrn. This is t1s1wcially truo as glohalization lwconrns morn prcvalnnL l.ubb,ffs nott•d. 
ln the past., compani11s w11rn only rnsponsihh• to the law or tlrn ('ounlry in which tlrny oporatml. With t.lw adwnt of world conf'eroncos on environnrnnt and labor standards fostered by NCOs, how­1! VIH', that is changing, Lubb(•rs t>xplainnd. 
"Now c:ompanim; arc bt\rn11ting a liUl1: hit scar<1d," hn said. "Now tlwy have to do a litt!n bit bnttnr than that." 
Lubbers also discussnd a rncnnl Pmphasis on f'undanrnntal values. IIii said that all religions sham certain valtws, such as Urn Golden l{ulo. 
"J>copln have startPCI lo react against the primn movers of globalization.... They start to stress nmotional values as well," Lubbnrs said. "It's inllffesting that poople talk more [now! than 20 ynars ago about specific valtws." 
Lubbers currently teaches globalization studies al tho University of Tilburg in the Netherlands and at the John F. K1m1wdy School of Government at Harvard University. lie was the Netlrnrlands' longost serving prime minister, holding ollice from 1982 to 1994. 
The Nanovic and Kellogg Institutes sponsored the conl'nrcnce. 


The Alumni Association is hiring people who would like to work from June 2 ,1999 thru June 5, 1999 for Reunion '99 You'll have lots of fun while you earn extra spending money!!! Please Apply at Student Employment at 336 Grace Hall or the Alumni Association at 100 Eck Center 



page 4 The Observer. CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April 12, 1999 

Conference stresses importance of service learning 
By CHRISTINE KRALY 
Assistant News Editor 
Service learning is phenome­nal. said Rebecca l'etit, a rep­re sen tativ c from tho South Bend Juvenile Justice Facility, at the America's Promise Conference friday. 
The conference. titled SEEDS !Supporting Experiential Education devel­opment for Students]. brought together representatives from local community service orga­nizations and stud1mt interns, to encourage student partic­ipation in experiential learn­ing. 
"'[Service learning] is a great learning environment,'' said Kregg Van Meter. represent­ing the Boys' and Girls' Club. Yan Meter, who works with students from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross, has nearly 85 volunteers and eight work-study students. 
"If you're on campus, you're putting books away in the library or pouring coffee for people," said Mary Finley. a senior work-study student at the Boys' and Girls' Club. 
Working at the Club. she said, is great because the hours are flexible and she can interact with the kids. 
Finley said people are sur­prised when she tells them of the 14 hours per week she works at the club, mostly because many people don't realize the options of doing work-study off campus. 

A problem Van Meter sees in getting students to volunteer off campus is not lack of inter­est but lack of transportation. Though some students use vans provided by the Center for Social Concerns and others carpool. the biggest problem in drawing students off cam­pus is the inability to get to and from volunteer sites. 
Petit, who only takes on stu­dents willing to commit two semesters of work, said that service learning is "the most exciting" part of her job. From the beginning, Petit treats her student workers as employees rather than volun­teers, issuing them job descriptions, employee busi­ness cards and offices. 
"Wr want to put students in a situation where they can be successful," she said, noting that shr placAs students in jobs relevant to their academic interests. 
Petit, like Van Meter, tries to incorporate students into lead­ership roles as much as ·she can. While Van Meter allows students to lead art classes and coach the children's ath­letic teams, Petit has students run free counseling sessions for students visiting the facili­ty 
• Student workers are invalu­able to a community agency 
'WE 
WANT TO PUT 
STUDENTS IN A SITU­
ATION WHERE THEY CAN BE 
SUCF.sSFUL,' 
RbBECCA PETIT 
SOUTH BEAD JUVl:.Nlll:.' JUSTICE 
FtC!llTY RE!'RESENT4TIFE 
because they bring enthusiasm to the job, said Petit. Students are curious and active and gain a "greater sensitivity for the bigger picture [of home­lessness and crime]" by work­ing with real caseloads. 
"Students come and they are current," she said, adding that students are usually up-to­date on the newest programs in their fields of work. 
nosie McDowell, a reprnscn­tative from the Logan Center who facilitates nearly 7 5 stu­dents, said that having stu­dents reflect on their service connects their experience to classroom learning and gives 
ICPA 
continued from page 1 
Cocks, Matthew Loughran and John Daily. 
In writing, Observer staffers Loughran, Allison Krilla, M. Shannon Ryan, Christian Pierce and Cocks won first place awards for best news story, best sports story, best sports feature, best enter­tainment review and best editorial column, respectively. 
Joey Cavato won third place for best sports fea­ture and Ryan took third in the best feature story category. 

In photography, Kevin Dalum won first and second places, respectively, for best news photo and Finch took second and third places for best feature photo and best photographic art, respec­tively. 
Jeff Hsu took first place in the best sports photo category. 
Ryan Meinerding won first place for best non­photographic art, and Dan Sullivan took first for best editorial cartoon. 
The Observer advertising department also received accolades, winning first place for best use of art in an ad and third place for advertiser of the year. Brett Huelat took second for best use of photography in an ad. 
The News Department has staff positions available. Call Tim at 1-5323. 
Someone once said, 

free Food
"There is no such thin~ 

Free m·s 
_.:as afree lunch." 

Froo Rooks
II ..-~.·:t4i!-¾I;:--•-...· _ _-t/· ;. Frtitt Eleetro11les
£1~ ,,; r...r~~.~.~ 1 ~ ,, we disa~ree. 1 
ff you can answer some questions I . and swf the v,.,eb, it1s just a click away i 


,www.memolinkscom1 . GET FREE STIJFF. NOW. ; 
them .a chance to talk about their work with others. 
"Reflection is the [actual] thing that makes a difference," said McDowell. "[Heflection] is what defines service learning as service learning." 
Chapin Street Clinic repre­sentative 'vl.ichellc Peters agreed with McDowell. 
"Reilection will make their service so much better," she said. "If you can make it mli;~datory, make it mandato­rv 
·Peters, too, said that having students reflect on their ser­vice opportunities helps them to realize the importance of what they are doing. 
McDowell and Peters gave tips on successful reflection including keeping the reflec­tion times al a minimum, as to not wear down the students, and to provide food at the meetings. 
While students, through ser­vice learning opportunities, arc helping those in their com­munity, Petit says an impor­tant part of their experience lies in learning about them­selves. 
Petit keeps her two-semester quota so students can not only be properly trained to take on individual caseloads but also so that they can develop a "better understanding of themselves." 
Hefore you can help others. she said, "you have to get your stuff together." 

1-,, 
Just afraction ofour time watchingmovies 
could help bring many happyenilings. 
It's so easy to help your r five hours ofvolunteertirne community, when you think per week the standard of about it. giving in America. 
Millions of peoplehave~=-~ ·-v. Get involved with the helped make five percent Ulte.r}ve. causes you care about of their incomes and Whar yoilTK!,.back IS i~measurab/e and give five. 
,,.....,,_,,,...,, 
INDIVIDUAL GIVING/VOLUNTEERING CAMPAIGN NEWSPAPER AD NO. IGV-89-1495-2 COL. 

··. >····• .··. ·.· ... ·· nts 


ished 
•

er1es 
. . 


··-,~~JJJsnory•;.·..The 

·. r:ief;r1an0••··.>, vocacy·scholarship'' 
.:Jb;tlll··/~eown 

<Unive-t1ity '&:(]tlii"er in.flte !Jaw and Ethics nfMedicine; -Fitculty hffsaw,-.. UniVersitYoICambridge; Fell~w h.nd Tiitqr: Qtteens'11 College, Cambridge 
Tuesday, April 13 1999 ._ .__ .4 p.m. _ Notre Dame Law School .·courtroom 

-7 
I 
.-------------~----------­
... . 
' . . . 
.•. 
. . . 
. . 
. . . 






ation
. . 

-.. Monday. /\pril 12. 1999 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 

¦ 
A: £;ERIA


¦ 
Iraq: Allied planes kill two 
B\GIIDAD 

l\lliPd pla1ws slrurk l'ivil and military tar­gl'ls in south1•1·n Iraq Sunday, killing two p1·opll' anti wounding ni1w ollwrs. llw Iraqi military rPporLPd. Th11 U.S. C11ntral <:u1n111a11d 1"0111'ir11wd that Anwrican plrnrns Ii.id .illack,·d Iraqi missilt· baltPriBs 100 111ilPs soulil or Baghdad, hut gav,, no word ol' cas11alli1•s. Tl11• attacks w,~rn in rntaliation J"or a11li-airn,11'1 fin• and a surf'acP-lo-uir missilP attal'k on "coalition aircral'l." the CPntral Command said in a statnmnnt from ils l11·adquartns in Florida. In Baghdad, the Iraqi air dPl'P11s1• rnrnmand said alliPd air­naf't had boml)('d "civil installations and Wt'apons positions." Two Iraqis wcrn killt!cl and ninP ottwrs Wl'rt' wounclPd in Lim attack. int"IU1li11g two woml'II J'rom tlw provincP of lJadissiya. Liu· o!Tirial Iraqi News Ag(\ncy q11ot,·d llw rn111111a11d as saying. ()adissiya is 
I2S mi!Ps soutlwast of Baghdad. 
Two die from taxi station bomb 
KAMPALA Uganda 

i\ homb hlast in a crowded taxi station in till' Ugandan capital kil11id at least two peo­plP Sunday and injun!d cighl otlwrs. govern­11w11! orficials said. The attack took placn just :wo vards from anotlmr taxi station that was atta~·kpd Saturday. l'olico. who gave no dntails or tlw attark. rordoned off the streets ,war llrn station and kept reporters away from the station that was littered with smaslwd hotthis and broken crates. No one imnwdiatf'ly daimed responsibility for the ;\SSOCIATEI) P1rnss bow out. If' no one wins an dates stressing the need to said former U.S. ambas­atlal'k. Witnesses at tlrn station said they saw outright majority, the elec­suture the wounds of a sador to Algeria. Honald two nwn dnad on tlrn ground. Eight other PARIS tion would be decided in a divided nation. Neumann, now deputy p1•oplc wern taken to the hospital. govern­Upcoming presidential run-ofT. Even the banned Salvation assistant secretary of state nwnl of'licials said. Witnesses said one of the elections are prompting Since 1992, more than Frnnt, which called for boy­for Near Eastern affairs. It injun•d died on thl' way. Bombs plantnd on hopes for change in Algeria, 75,000 people have died, cotts in past votes, has has the potential to bring inter-city buses and in bars and restaurants mired for more than seven including civilians. security asked people to turn out for new legitimacy and authori­in Kamirnla have killed more than three years in an Islamic insur­forces and· Islamic insur­the vote to replace retired ty to the nation's leader. he dozPn pt•opln in tlw past two years. gency and for more than gents trying to install a state Gen. Liamine Zeroual. who said. 
three decades in a system based on their interpreta­is stepping down 18 "If it goes badly, obvious­Candidate promises peace that has bred cnrruption, tion of Koranic law. The months before the end of ly, that would be a consider­despair and economic "jihad," or holy war, and his five-year term. able step back," lw said in a 
JEHlJSALEM decay. the brutal army offensive The election marks a telephone intnrview. 
r\ top canclidatn for lsraidi prime minister From seven candidates, have redefined life in the "critical turning point," the Despite the array of can­said Sunday that he would sclrndule a referen­Algerians will choose their North African nation prized Salvation Front said from its didates, there are fears only dum on a final peace settlement with the first civilian leader since the by the West for its abundant exile base in Europe. one counts: Abdelaziz l'altistinians ii' he is nlected in May. Ehud nation's first president, natural gas and oil reserves. It called on voters to back Bouteflika, portrayed by Barak. tlrn lrnad of tlrn Labor party, has Ahmed Ben Bella, who was An army coup that abort­'former Foreign Minister many as the army' s man. promisnd to resunrn the pe1acc process, which ousted in 1965. ed .January 1992 legislative Ahmed Taleb lbrahimi, 67, The army is blamed for lsr.wli Primo Minister Benjamin Netanyahu The question is whether elections the Islamic who has Islamic sympa· Algeria's rampant corrup­frow s1weral months ago after accusing the the powerful military that Salvation Front was win­thies and wants reconcilia­tion and high unemploy­Palestinian i\uthority of' failing to fulfill its has been the source of ning triggered the insur­tion through dialogue with ment. Claims of human commitments. "Wn will bring a final agree­power in Algeria since its gency. all who do not support vio­rights abuse, including tor­nwnt to a rnfornndum. if it is reached." Barak independence from France National reconciliation is lence. ture and disappearances, told Channel 2 TV. Barak said that he was will ensure a fair vote in ·the byword of the cam­The election "is extraordi­have compounded a perva­sum that tlm pr.ace policies of his government Thursday's election, then paign, with all seven candi-mirily important to Algeria," sive sense of hopelessness. would "rncnive the overwhelming support of tlw lsnwli public." Final 1rngotiations hfltwecm lsnwl and the Palestinians were slated to bn rnmplntml by May 4. but hav11 yet to begin. Tlw talks arii to dnal with tlrn con11ict's most 

Air Force tries to rescue satellite 
s1•11sitive issues. ASSOCIATED PIIFSS and left the $afo1Hte in a highly lop• tact with tho sauillite but unable to sided ratherthi:in Circular orbit. determine its condition, Bomhoff said. CAPE <.;ANAYERAL. Fla. Air .Force officials said the Boeing­"They're trying to get the satellite in 
A $250 million missile-warning bullt motor separat.ed as planned from a position where Urny can work with it satellite that was left stranded in a the satellite· seven ·· ·hours after liftoff, and control it." sho said. ''Th(:1y'ro try• useless orbit had the Air Force scram­ing to come up with solutions, trying bling Sunday in an attempt to rescue dilieront things." 
it. The satellite was intended for a
'THEY'RE TRYING TO GET THE
"They haven't given up," said Patsy 22,300-mile-high orbit, whore it was Bomho{I, a spokeswoman at Schriever SATELL(l'E (NA POSITION to have joined other Defense Support Air Force Base in Colorado. "They're Program spacecraft in detecting mis­
WHERE THEY CAN WORK WlTH IT 
working around the clock." sile and rocket launches as WBll as The Defense Support Program satel­AND CONTROLJT.' nuclear detonations. The 2 1/2-ton lite was launched Friday aboard an satellite is equipped with 6,000 
1348.35 Volume: Air Force Titan rocket. It was the first infrared sensors. 
PATTY BOMHOFF

10173.84 +4.37 849,900,000 flight of a Titan IV since a spy satellite Air Force officials insisted before VOLUME LEADERS was destroyed in a $1 billion explo­SPOKESWOMAN Friday's launch there was no rush for sion shortly aftor liftoff last August. 5CHRJEVER AIR FORCE BASE the new satellite, ,wen with the con­
i;;ar:,a na.11 ~ s.111• I s:lllllill Elli;I 
ORAC I,! CORP •ILOl 25.A8 flict in Yugoslavia. They said the exist• If the satellite cannot be salvaged,
ORCt t2. '5675 0£LL · l <l 3, 56 net·
DILL 1~UHPUTEA -).20 4400 the failed mission will have cost tax­ing Defense Support Program
AHi:~ ONL l NE >OL --1.sooo 159. 00 
HtCROSOFT t'ORP HSF'l' -. "JJ •. '125 ~4.215 payers $682 million. including the but it was unclear whether it fired work is providing complete, world­
NC'l"Wuf<IC ASSOC NETA • 10 .SB " 5600 16.31 PHll.JP MORRJ!, MO •l. Rl •0.6275 J4. 94 
' 
COMPAO COMl'UTEN CPO •t.1 .44 --1,)3150 )0.9<1 rocket cost. properly. .· · ._. ·. wide coverage. SPIRP.: COMM •20 .92 627'5 15 .19
ESP! •2 _ The Titan did its job in its Jong­Ground controllf~rs worked.through• The satellites were instrumental in
SUN M(CROSYS'!'F:M$ SUNW -1. 75 -l.2500 70. 25 TJ51N,.lRNE:"!'WOllK r •171 .81 +.Hi. 5000 51. 50
usrx awaited return to flight. But 11n upper• out the weekend, trying to figure out tracking Scud missiles during the stage motor apparently malfunctioned what went wrong. T)l:ey were in con-1991 Persian Gulf war. 


page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April 1.2, 1999 
Election 
continued from page 1 
leaders lack the ability to be a strong voice for the students. This problem comes largel.y from their poor communication with the greater student body, according to Poirer. 
"Responsiveness would improve the decisions made," he said. "Student government is putting forth a lot of effort to no avail on things that may be impractical or undesirable. With some input from students, maybe they'd see this." 
Palumbo agrees to some extent with this sentiment, stressing that student leaders need to remain open to the voic­es of those they represent. 
"We need to· seek the best peo­ple with the most wide range of opinions," he said. "You have to be big enough to ask, you have to be ready to listen to every­thing." 
Other campus leaders echo this idea, but stress that stu­dents must take the initiative, because it is impossible to gauge campus opinion without a wide range of voices, 
"Student government tries to make itself available. but I think that students have to realize that. if they want change, they have to take the initiative," said Pangborn Hall senator Susan Roberts. 
While a range of different stu­dents took that initiative in run­ning for president, the student bodv chose the ticket with expe­rie~ce and a commitment to manv of the same programs and poli~ies that guided the Cesaro/Selak administration. 
Murphy and Palumbo had more experience with Notre Dame student government than any of their competitors. Murphy served as Keough Hall president and, before that, secretary of the Class of 2000, and Palumbo was the Student Union secretary. 
Only one other pair, Chana Jayme and Dan Peate -both hall presidents -had worked in the Student Union. Murphy and Palumbo's victory, and the way the Election Committee handled their late entrance into the race, onlv fueled the notion of exclu­sivity, other candidates said. 
"The wav [ saw the elections, 
student government had final 
say over just about everything," 
said Sean Deschene, who fin­
ished fifth in the voting. "They're 
basically picking their osw11 suc­
cessors." 
Murphy and Palumbo entered the race on separate tickets, hut both of their running mates chose to drop out. The two then paired up, but it was several days after the entry deadline. Despite protests from other tick­ets, they were placed on the bal­lot. Deschene pointed to this as an example of student govern­ment exclusivity. 
"In [the election committee's eyes]. there was only one serious ticket," he said. "They said, 'We'd do everything we could to help them get elected."' 
Nicole Borda, Judicial Council vice president for elections, dis­agreed. 
"We would've done exactly the same thing for any other candi­dates," she said. 
Given the late withdrawal of' Julie Reising, Murphy's initial running mate, for personal rea­sons, the Election Committee decided to approve the addition of Palumbo to the ticket. Borda said, under the circumstances and with the unclear. nature of election bylaws, the pair could not be barred from the race. 
"There was really no way we could tell the candidates that they can't switch tickets," Borda said. "We handled it in what we felt was the best way possible." 
Much of the confusion which arose when tickets were switched ii) February came out of unclear bylaws in tl1e Student Union constitution. Candidates were unsure of the rules regard­ing election laws. 
"A lot of problems arose because of obscurities in the bylaws," said Judicial Council president Kelly Folks, who noted that signature deadlines and exceptions to the rules would be addressed. 'Tm working with the vice-president of elections and rewriting them as best we can so that they're coherent and easy to follow and a lot clearer." 
The debate over student gov­ernment exclusivity during the election brought about the posi­tive result of helping open up the process, according to Palumbo. 
"[The other candidates] brought attention to the prob­lem," he said. "Often, perception is reality, and if students are perceiving it and students are saying it, then, yes, there is a problem." 
He pledged to try to alleve this 
situation in the coming year, in 
the hopes that student govern­
ment at Notre Dame will 
improve. 
"We've got to want to bring 
people in here and seek other 
opinions," Palumbo said. "The 
more people are involved, the 
better it becomes." 

Professor to receive grant 
higher failure rate than others, tudes about chemistry
Dennis Jacobs 
according to Jacobs. improved as well as their per­His program provided assis­formance and retention.
was named one 
tance in the form of weekly, Jacobs is currently tracking 50-minute tutorials. Students the long-term effect on his
of29Pew 
took the same tests and used class by ''monitoring the the same material as·their grades of chemistry students
Scholars 

peers who do not attend the who have completed lthe tutorial. The students in the course]."
By KRISTEN FITZPATRICK project were also required to As a Pew Scholar, Jacobs 
News Writer 

turn in homework for grades will receive a $6,000 cash and to work in groups on chal­prize, which he said he plans
Dennis Jacobs, associate 
lenging problems, he said. to use for further educational
professor of chemistry, has 
Jacobs found that the grades endeavors.
been named one of the 29 
for stud{mts in the project ''It's really more of a l'ellow­
nationwide 1999-2000 Pew improved throughout the ship than a scholarship. I'll
Scholars for his achievement 
semester. The students' failure probably buy a laptop and use
in documenting and imple­
rate decreased to the average the rest to subsidize my salarymenting bettor teaching toch­level. during the summer months
niques in the classroom and 
He attributed the project's when I do research," he said. 
tackling teaching challcmges in 
success to integrating more The results of the project
his field. 

problem solving into the class­will be circulated among otherJacobs submitted a proposal room. institutions of higher learningto the scholarship board. After "So many students have diffi­so that other instructors maybeing chosen as a finalist, he culty with problem solving and learn about the benefits of this created a project, performed it 
they don't get the attention teaching method, he said.
and submitted the results to 
that they need. It's not just The Pew Scholarship
the scholarship board, he said. 
teaching well. hut reflecting on Program is directed by the
In his project, Jacobs what you're teaching," said Carnegie Foundation for the
designed a chemistry course 
Jacobs. "We want this class to Advancement of Teaching. Thewhich offered additional help 
help them not just in chem­scholarships are awarded to to students with lower than 
istry, but in problem solving in professors of' all disciplines,
average math SAT scores. 
general." including three awards thisThese students tend to have a He noted that students' atti-year in chemistry. 
CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS 
CHECK US OUT ON: rentnet.com 
• 
FURNISHED 1 AND 2 BEDROOM SPACIOUS APARTMENTS 

• 
LARGE CLOSETS 

• 
DECORATOR BLINDS ON ALL WINDOWS 

• 
TENNIS, VOLLEYBALL & BASKETBALL COURTS 

• 
WALKING DISTANCE TO NDU 

• 
FLEXIBLE LEASES AVAILABLE 


CALL TODAY!!! (219) 272-1441 MEMBER 
APARTMENTcampusview@michianatoday.com ASSOCIATION 
OF INOIANA, INC. 
Now 



You know you want to.
NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone; 6))..6316 • www.adbook1tere.com 


Monday, April 12, 1999 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
¦ YUGOSLAVIA

Environmental group says cities 
NATO strikes persist
threatening rivers and wildlife 
W/\SIIIN(;T0N 

llrllan sprawl in /\llanta. Snattln, Chicago and ul.lwr l'iti1's is draining and polluting wulnr and posing rww risks to somp of tlw l!ni!Pd Statns' riv«•rs, 1u1 P11viron11w11tal group rnports. 
Thi' poni1111 of flrn Snalrn l!ivnl' Lhat runs lhrough Washingto11 sl.at1~ topp1\d i\mnrican llivNs' 14th an1111al annual list of' the nation·~ IO most ondangnrnd rivnrs. which was lining released l\londay. 
Th(\ 1• nvi r1111111 P 11 faI gro u p sai<I !'our I00-l'oot-high frdnral 
/\nrnrican Hivnrs. 
c;roup nwmbnrs urgtld feclnral officials to breach ltrn four Snakt• darns but said other troublcs in rivnrs could l.H• snlvPd if stale and lo!'al govornmcnls did a helter job of control­ling sprawl. 
Atlanta is growing so swiftly that water man­ag1!rs have proposed building and modifying rfams on tlw Coosa and Tallapoosa rivnrs, which thrcat1rn marine lifo in the rivers and prompted a No. 3 ranking for the Coosa­Tallapoosa-/\labama Hiver system, /\nrnrican Hivers said. 
(;rowth in Sierra Vista, /\riz., is partly to blanw for Laking watnr f'rom an aquifer faster than it can h<' rnplenislwd, thus threatening tho San !'Niro Hiv1!r. Sprawl in Seattle poses risks for tlw No. fi-rnnkcd CHdar Hiver salmon runs, and wastdul wat11r practices in Sall Lake City am rnducing flows in thn Bear. !liver and dam­aging a bird refugfl, ttw group said. 
UL': ,11r:1wl thrPats include sewage and sub11rlian nrnoll in the Chicago arna, which am 
I I I I 
• 
~ 

---_.. 

check out THE PLUNGEatwww.nd.edu/~vocation 
I,,.,.. 4': f~---~l4'.~"' ,,.,,,,,,.~. 
than expected men turning up among refugees crossing into Macedonia and Albania,
For more information on 
revived speculation that the men had either been massa-
Holy Cross' one-year 
Candidate Program 

University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents
contact: 

\ltbe ~otre 7Bame <lCborale &
Fr. Jim King, C.S.C. or Fr. Bill Wack. C.S.C. 

QCbamber C!&rcbestra 
Alexander Blachly, Director
1-6385 
vocation. l@nd.edu 
FOLLOW HIM .... ? 

on Orthodox Easter 
polluting Llrn Fox Hiver and tlirnalening drink­
ing supplies !'or 200,000 !H'opln, i\nrnrican Associated Press 
HivPrs said. 

Th,1 fnstost-growing county in California, BELGHADE Saying il showPd rnsfrainL in
Montnrny County, is threatoning wildlifo and defornncn to the Orthodox
habitat hy incre11si11gly taking water l'rnm tlw 
Easter holiday, NATO norwtlrn­

Cammi Hivnr to s<1rvn Urn population growth, 
less hammored Serb ta1·gets inUrn l{roup said. 
Kosovo on Sunday. Western

Some rivnrs, among them tlru llanl'ord Hcach 
ol1icials, mnanwhile, (ixpressnd

of' llrn Columbia in Washington state and Urn growing alarm over reports orPocomoke in Maryland, were mentioned promi­atrocities in the province and 
whothnr breaching the dams is the best way to 
seriously damaged last week
help salmon. 
was targeted again Monday,

Bruaching the dams would increase power 
Tanjug reported. Nearby

rat11s by $150 million per year and force 
Batajnica, where a military

exportnrs to seek other ways to ship about 
airport is located, was also tar­

$400 million in goods every year, said Bruce 
geted, Tanjug and Beta report­Lovolin, executive director of the Columbia 
ed. River Alliance, which represents shippers, utili­British Harrier jets raided a ties, and f'armers.and other groups. fuel storage depot in Kosovo "It is obvious that this is simply kind of a late Sunday, Group Cpl. Glenn political drive by these groups to raise some Edge said. allcntion," Lovelin said of American Rivers' Air-raid sirens also sounded list. "The fact is ... we have improved the way in the capital Belgrade and the these dams are operated." cities of Nis and Cacak. 
Other rivers on the annual list include the In Belgium, NATO Yellowstone Hiver in Montana and North spokesman Jamie Shea showed aerial photographs of a site in
Dakota, which environmentalists say is turning Pusto Selo, southwest of the
into an "armored channel" because of flood 
Kosovo capital, Pristina. He

control work that is harming wildlife habitat; 
said from the air it appeared

and the Coal River in West Virginia, threatened 
the ground had been freshly

by the largest mountaintop :,trip coal mine ever 
turned over, and that the site

proposed in the state, American Rivers said. 
looked "somewhat similar" to aerial shots of' mass graves seen during the war in Bosnia. 
"I suspect ... that we are going to find more and more evidence of mass graves, mass 

Music of: Bach Lassus Brahms Mozart 
8:00 p.m. 

Wed., Apr. 14 Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Free & open to the public. 
cred by S<!rbs, joined tho reb<d Kosovo l.ilrnralion Army or wern bning held hostage. 
Many of the r11fug1\os manag­ing to get across intermittently open borders -more than half a million, all told -toll of' their villages being burned and omptied. 
In what was apparnntly a grim aftermath nl' a frenzy of' violence, tape obtained but not filmed by /\ssot.:iated Press Television News showed a burned, deserted village just over the Macedonian border. Ethnic Albanians said it had been emptied in a recent assault. 
What looked to be a bloodind T-shirt lay among clothing scattnrnd on the ground and dangling off fonces. Two sheep had been shot in the head and thrown in a stream. apparently to contaminate the water. 
NATO says the bombing cam­paign that began March 24 will go on until Milosevic with­draws Yugoslav and Serb units sent to Kosovo as part of his uackdown un the separatist KLA. 
Sirna, the alliance spokesman, said it was "a night of relative restraint" on the airstrikcs. 
"We were mindful of the Orthodox Easter celebrations," he said. 
In Belgrade, skies were gloomy and streets and squares nearly empty on Sunday. Most people stayed home for the traditional Easler meal of roast lamb and a salad of new onions and radishes. 
Belgrade was unscathed in overnight air attacks, but 50 bombs hit in and around Pristina. 
The city's Slatina airport was hit more than two dozen times, the Serb-run Media Center said. 
Shea said targets that were hit by NATO bombs and mis­siles included a fuel dopot in Pristina, ammunition depots. bridges, communications facili­ties and air defense installa­tions. 
Yugoslavia's telecommunica­tions system was beginning to collapse "because of the exten­sive damage in11icted on it" by the airstrikes, Tanjug quoted Dojcilo Hadojevic, the telecom­munications minister, as say­ing Sunday. 
Yugoslavia reported six civil­ian deaths and 23 injuries in Sunday morning's strikes. Tanjug said civilian areas were hit in northern Kosovo and in the Serbian town of Kursumlija, 125 miles south or Belgrade. It said the dead included a father and his 1­year-old daughter in the village of Mirovac. near the northern Kosovo town of Podujevo. 
llydropownr dams 011 tho S11ak11 hav11 hnltJP<I cl i mi II is h salmon runs by 'JO p«ircnnt 
sirH:P l.lw I'J70s. whil'h has Ind Lo Ll1P fish's plac1•nw11L on th1: f'l'(kral thrPat1\tll'rl and PtHlan­gPrl'CI s1rnd111' lisls. "Ev,iry ynar wt> spend mil­lions mon\ on hizarrn sch1•11ws lo try to sav,• Llrnsp fish, and cvory y1\ar ftlwcr and f'ownr fish rf'turn Lo spawn,"said Bnlrncca \Vodder. prnsidmll of' 
' EVERY YEAR WE SPEND 
MILLIONS MORE ON 
BIZARRE SCHEMES TO TRY TO SAVE THESE FISH, AND EVERY YEAR FEWER AND FEWER ASH RETURN TO SPAWN.' 
Rm11:"ce-1 Wovmm l'!U,S!!Jfi"NT, AMF!IICAN RIVERS 

~ ---------WHY NOT..II 
Hometown: South Bend, Indiana Favorite Sandwich: Hoosier Hot Brown Nickname: Spaz 

"I joined Holy Cross when I was 18. Why wait? 
ANSWER THE CALL--today!" 

--Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C., ND 189, 193, Associate Vocation Director 
executions, some pretty horril'­
ic stories," Defense Secretary 
William Cohen said on ABC's 
"This Week." 
/\bout 400,000 people have 
fled their homes and are hiding in forests and mountains, terri­fied of Serb forces, British Foreign Secretary Robin Cook said Sunday after talking to an ethnic Albanian political leader in Kosovo. Cook said NATO . holds Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic responsible for these "victims of his ethnic 
cleansing.,. 
British officials also said 
about 100,000 ethnic Albanian 
men are apparently missing. 
The estimate, based on fewer 

n<!ntly last year but are uff this year's list.. The S1wk1i and No. 2­ranked Missouri River, which llrn group said suffers from too many channels and poor graz­ing practices, both were on last year's list. 
Environmentalists say ,remov­ing earthon port.ions of tho four Snakn !liver dams would allow water and salmon to flow freely past tho dams. Industry groups complain such breaches also would render the dams useless. 
The U.S. Army Corps of Enginoers is expected to com­plete a study next year on 
said a possible mass grave site had been spotted. 
Shortly after nightf'all. a mis­sile struck a residential aroa ol' the northern city of' Novi Sad, the ol1irial Tanjug news agency reported. 'Phc independent Beta news agency quoled Caslav Popovic, a city ol'licial, as saying a military barracks had been targeted. There were no causalities, he said. 
Part of an oil refinery was hit near Pancevo, northeasl of Belgrade, Beta quoted Mayor Srdjan Mikovic as saying. A car factory in the central Serbian town of' Kragujevac that was 
~)l'"'""AiM 11.,rn 

Monday, April 12, 1999
page 8 TI1e Observer• INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
¦ BHGlUf\/l ¦ INDIA 
Milosevic angered as India tests nuclear missiles 
Associated Press The launch came nearly a sile, it is expected to form the year after India conducted a mainstay of India's nuclear
Albright shifts policy 
NEW DELHI series of underground nuclear delivery system. Both rockets 
Associated Press States expected Russia to 
adhere to the international 
arms embargo against 
BRUSSELS Yugoslavia and not take "roun­

Arriving for talks intended to tcrproductive" actions. bolster NATO unity, Secretary Later, a senior U.S. officiaJ of State Madeleine Albright said "wi, are watching very said Sunday the Serbian carefully" to see whether onslaught against ethnic Russia was providing weapons Albanians in Kosovo means or other equipment to the fewer Serb troops will be per­Serbs. Tlrn official, speaking mitted to remain in the on condiliou or anonymity, said province than previously pro­that possibility was "a major posed. pro·blem" 
And in for the another pol­
Clinton
'THIS ISANicv shift administra­bound to ISSUE tion. a n g B r T h e
THAT HAS TO BE

Yugoslav Rambouillet President WORKED AND accords call Slobodan for the
WORKED.' 

Milosevic. withdrawal Albright did of Serb nut rule out !viADE.LEINE ALBlilGHT t r o o p s , partitioning SECRETARY OF STATE Par am i Ii ­
Kosovo as part of a settlement, provided there are ways to protect Orthodox holy sites. 
"Lots of parts of Rambouillet have been overtaken by events," Albright said of the accord, negotiated outside Paris, that was rejected by the Serbs and accepted by the Kosovar Albanians last month. 
Albright said "there has to be recognition" of the Serb offensive that has forced the expulsion of more than one­third of the ethnic Albanians in what the Clinton administra­tion has denounced as a "scorched-earth" campaign. 
But earlier Sunday, John 
Podesta, the White House chief 
of staff, said in Washington on 
NBC's "Meet The Press" that 
"the partition of Kosovo is not 
on the table." And Defense 
Secretary William Cohen, on 
ABC's "This Week," said: 
"Partition is out the question. 
Partition would simply be a 
reward to Milosevic and what 
he has set out to do." 
Albright planned to meet 
Monday with the 18 foreign 
ministers of the allied govern­
men ts. 
Before leaving Washington 
on Sunday morning, she spoke 
with each by telephone. 
"The alliance is wedge­
proof" she told reporters on 
the trans-Atlantic flight. 
Besides strategy for Kosovo, 
they will discuss the NATO 
summit meeting set for next 
week in Washington. Albright 
said among the new tasks the · 
alliance will consider is coordi­
nating assistance directly to 
displaced civilians in Kosovo. 
Albright on Tuesday will try 
to mend fences with Russia, 
which has denounced the 
NATO bombardment of 
Yugoslavia, now nearing the 
end of a third week. Hussian 
President Boris Yeltsin on 
Friday warned that if NATO 
senl ground troops to Kosovo 
to "make it their protectorate, 
we cannot allow this." 
Albright, downplaying the 
disagreement. said "there is a 
possibility" that Russia, one of 
the six nations be.hind the 
rejected Kosovo peace plan, 
could be "re-engaged" in try­
ing to formulate a new settle­
ment. But, Albright said, the 
Russians "clearIv ... are trou­
bled" by the NATO attacks on 
the Serbs. 
"This is an issue that has to 
be worked and worked," said 
Albright, who was to meet in 
Oslo, Norway, with Foreign 
Minister Igor Ivanov. 
Albright said the United 
tary and 
police units. 
A total of 5,000 troops could rema~n ­2,500 along the border, there­by assuring Kosovo remained part of Serbia, and 2,500 police who could remain for one year. Some would be absorbed into a local police force. 
Asked if these terms still applied, Albright said "there has to be reconsideration. Lots of parts of Rambouillet have been overtaken by events. We have to be realistic and flexi­ble as we look to the future." 
The senior official said, meanwhile, that "all the signs point to fewer and fewer troops" from Serbia being left in Kosovo once hostilities end. 
The accords drawn up at 
Rambouillet would have given 
the ethnic Albanians self-rule 
but not independence. Kosovo 
was due to remain part of 
Serbia, at least for threes, 
under the accords. 
Clinton administration offi­
cials have spoken recently of 
Milosevic losing his grip on 
Kosovo. On Sunday, Albright 
took that a step further by 
declining to rule out partition 
stripping the Serbs of all but a 
northern region where the 
Serbs have their shrines and 
are more predominant in a 
province about 90 percent eth­
nic Albanian. 

A new missile capable of car­rying a nuclear warhead suared into the skies over India on Sunday, defying U.S. appeals for restraint in weapons testing and raising rears of a new arms race with neighboring Pakistan. 
India's Defense Minister George Fernandes said the suc­cessful 11-minute test flight of the Agni II missile marked a "great day for India," while Pakistan said it would decide in the next two <Jr three days how to respond. 
Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee said later in a nation­ally televised address that the Agni proved India's drtermina­tion • to strengthen its national securitv. 
"In a· rapidly changing securi­tv environment, India cannot depend on others to defend her. v\'e have to develop our own indigenous capabilities. Agni is a symbol of that resurgent" India," he said. 
"India is on the move. And no 
one can hinder our progress if 
we remain unwavering and 
determined," he added. 
tests, prompting its rival,• Pakistan, to respond with tests of its own. The two countries have fought three wars since they were carved from a British colony in 1947. . 
The white, two-stage missile lifted off Sunday "without a hitch" from a new test.site on India's eastern coast, carrying "a substantial payload," Fernandes said. 
Indian naval ships and ground stations tracked the rocket as it soared from its rail-mounted launch pad into the sky, leaving a trai'l of thick white smoke. International shipping and air­lines had been warned away from the test zone. 
Fernandes said the range of the Agni was "in excess of 1,240 miles" -an increase of 310 miles over an earlier version of the rocket. Both models are capable of striking targets deep inside Pakistan and nearby China. 
The Agni -which means 
"fire" in Sanskrit -was last 
test-fired in February 1994. 
With the Prithvi {"Earth") mis-
can carry conventional and nuclear payloads. 
Speaking to reporters, Fernandes brushed aside ques­tions about the political fallout of tlrn test. 
India will nut wmµrornise its national security with anyone. he said, adding: "We don't need to be told by anybody about restraint." 
Pakistan was given advance warning of the launch, under an agreement signed in February when the Indian prime minister traveled O\(er­land to the Pakistani city of Lahore to meet his counterpart, Nawaz Sharif. 
In the Pakistani capital of Islamabad, Foreign Minister Sartaj Aziz confirmed his gov­ernment had received the warning Saturday. "We are dis­appointed and concerned," he told The Associated Press after the test. "We had decided on restraint." 
Pakistan will have to decide in the next two or three days "how to respond to the Indian tests," Aziz said. 
Homes for Rent 

• 
Domus Properties has two, five, six and nine bedroom student housing available 

• 
Student neighborhoods close to campus 

• 
Security systems provided 

• 
Well maintained homes· 

• 
Maintenance staff on call 


Available for the 1999/2000 school year 
Contact Kramer {219) 276-7020 or {219) 674-2571 or {219) 233-4509 

Professional Development: 
What Companies are Looking for in their Interns and Full-Time Hires 
Speakers: 

Tim Koegel 
The Koegel Group 
Former Notre Dame Alumni 
Molly Freeman 
Deloitte & Touchc --Recruiter ._ 
Wednesday, April 14, 1999 
New Eck Visitor Center Auditorium 
7:00 PM -Refreshments Served 
8:00 PM -Presentation Begins 
Sponsored by NDC/BD 
Monday, April 12, 1999 The Observer • NEWS page 9 
¦ LEBANON 
Israeli missiles raid Lebanon 
A~sociated Press 
SIDON 

lsrneli warplanes fired at least 10 missiles in throe raids Sunday on suspected guerrilla bases in southern Lebanon, Lebanese security officials said. 
Thri lirst two attacks targeted the village or Mlita in the lligh!ands of Iqlim al-Tuffah province, a stronghold of the Hezbollah guer­riII a group. Mlila is 12 miles southeast of Sidon und fact!s tho Jsraoli-occupied zone. 
Loss than an hour after tho first raid, Israeli jets fired at least two more missiles at suspect• ed guerrilla targets in u. valley between the vil­lages of Jebal al-Botom and Zibqine, nine miles southeast of Tyre. 
In Jt1rusalfim, an Israeli military spokesman confirmed the attacks and said all planes had returned safely to base. 
Iranian-backed Hezbollah guerrillas are fighting to oust 1,500 Israeli soldiers and 
2,500 allied militiamen from the Israeli-occu­pied zone, which Israel set up in 1985 to pro­tect .its northern territory from cross-border attacks. Officials said they had no word of casualties. They spoke on customary condition of anonymity. . 
In a related development,· tbe Hezbi)llah group said in the Lebanese capital of Beirut that its guerrillas attacked an Jsraeli outpost at Blatt,. a few miles north of the Israeli bor­der, scoring "direct hits.'' 
There was no independent confirmation. 
Sunday's attacks brought to four the number of Israeli air raids on southern Le.banonJn less than 24 hours. Israeli warplanos fired three missiles late Saturday in the Jebal al-Botom and Zibqine area. There.were n.o casualties. 
Meanwhile~ tl:l(:l head ofthe Jsr;i.eli army.~aid it has begun withdrawing some troops from areas in southern Lebanon. 
But Lt. Gen. Shiml Mofaz said .the troop with­drawal did nofsignify· the start pfa pullout; 

Got News? Call The Observer 
at 1-5323 
E:• 
I ~, 
~--::•:: 
':':. '.·'· ._-::: ; :, . 
E½zsk' , , 



"Reporters, after all, have the right to ask any questions they want to. For one thing, it's what they are expected to do by their editors. But we have no obligation to answer them. 'No comment' beats a dumb comment every time." 
-from Chaptrr J, uar,, to Kup Your Mouth Shut 
Ill HarpcrCollinsPub/ishen 

Buffalo prepares for abortion protesters 
Associated Press 
BUFFALO, N.Y. 
Ono week after October's sniper killing of Dr. Barnett Slepian. a prominent obstetri­cian who performed abortions, abortion opponents said they would target his clinic and oth­

Local and national organizers have sent out 60,000 invitations and Operation Rescue has encouraged people to "storm the gates of hell" in Buffalo from April 18 to 2!i. 
Leaders say the event nlso will denounce what th()y consid­er other ills of society, such as 
ers with major protests in six months' time. 
,J

T h e i r THINK Goo HAS CHO­Operation Save 
SEN BUFFALO AS A BAT-
America is now just days away, TLEGROUND WHERE HE'S 
and hundreds GOING TO FIGHT ABORTION of demonstra-
WITH GREAT STRENGTH. ' 
tors are expected to show up ouL,:;ide 

REV. ROBliRT BE//N
clinics, book­

DIRECTOR, LAST CALI.
stores and high schools in MIMISTRIES upstate New York from 
teen sex, pornography and school vio­lence. 
Local partici­pants are being encour­aged to take a more prayerful approach than they didduring the raucous clashes of the 1992 Spring of Life, which resulted in about 625 
Buffalo to Rochester. 

arrests. But there's no way lo 
"I think God has chosen know if out-of-towners will fol­Buffalo as a battleground where low suit, and law enforcement He's going to fight abortion with officials are taking no chances. great strength," the Rev. Robert Erie County has built a tempo­
Behn, director of Last Call rary jail in an armory tn hold Ministries, said in his 
any demonstrators who refuse announcement last fall. to give their names so they 

can't be taken before a judge to 
have bail set. 
Police have spent months 
making plans, studying tactics 
used at other demonstrations 
and gathering intnlligencn. 
"We would prnfer to detrir 
problems," said Police 
Commissioner Hocco Diina. 
Since the 1992 protests, vio­
lence against abortion providers 
has escalated markedly from 
trespassing and minor altr.rca­
tions to clinic bombings and 
shootings. Bosides Slnpian, 
whose Oct. 23 killing remains 
unsolved -although a rille was 
found buried on his propPrty 
last week -eight other doctors 
have been shot at since 199:{. 
Two or them died: Dr. David 
Gunn in 1993 and Dr" John 
Bayard Britton in 1994. both in 
Pensacola, Fla. Several nurses, 
receptionists and security of'fi­
cers also have been killed or 
injured. 
Many blame the violence 011 
restrictions -such as tho 1994 
Freedom of' Access to Clinic 
Entrances Act -which they say 
keep peaceful demonstrators 
away from clinic doors while 
prodding the more radical abor­
tion opponents into violence. 
New York state Attorney General Eliot Spitzer is seeking even stronger restrictions on protesters: buffer zones of up lo 60 l'ect from clinic doors as well as limits on thn usn of mega­phones or bullhorns. A federal judge is considering the request. 
Some leaders or the 19')2 Spring of Life have softened their approach. saying it's timn to find a new way to deliver their message. The Hev. Hobert Schenk said the time or block­ades and linking protesters with chains has passed. 
But there has hmm no sollen­ing of' the approach of Operation Hescun National, tlrn anti-abortion group which has been promoting the demonstra• tions in Buffalo as "a 11ash point for the battle." 
"The giant of child killing will never come to an end by politi­cal resolution or building bridges to the enemy's camp," a January newsletter said. 
On the other side of the issue, abortion-rights advocates have been holding "clinic defense training" sessions. 
"We're well-trained and we're ready," said Carolyn Taggart. who led a recent ses­sion. 

VIEWPOINT 
OB~ERVER -----------------Monday,April 12, 1999, 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
1999-2000 GENERAL BOARD 
EOITOR•IN•CHlfF Michdle Kwp, MANAGINC. EDITOR 8USINEoS MANAGER 
M. Shannon Ryan Dave R,)gero 
As-<ISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Laura Pctdle 

NEWS EonoR .............................T,m !Agan AtlV£R.TISiNla MANAGEK........................Bryan Lun. Vrnwl'UINT EDITOR ............. Collcen Gaughen An DESIGN MANAGER ...............Kenneth Kearney SPORTS EDITOR .......................... Brian Kessler SYSTEMS MANAGER........................Michael Rcvm ScfNf EnrroR... . . ....... Micha,\ Vaneg,,., CONTROI.LER .. ... .. .. .Timorhy lane SA1Nr MARY'S EDITOR .....Collc~n McCmhy GRAPHIC~ [!JITOR .............................. Joe M ncller PHOTO EDITOR ... . .............. Kevin Dal um WEB ADMINISTRATOR....................Erik Kt1,hto 
I'hc O~er is rhl' indcpcnd~nt n~spaper published by tht> srudent:o; of rhe Uniw-rsiry ofNorrc Dame du ,..acand Saim Mary's Col!cgc. l, does. nor neci:~'-arily rellfX[ ,he polici~ ofrhc .:i<lminiminion of dfher i11"i1iriu:ion. Then~ is ~portc.'t.i as accur.udy anJ objectively a-. pn~ihlc, Umigntd cdiroriah Kpre11em rhc npinion ofthe majority of rhc f,dimr•in-Chicf, Mm1;.1~ing Edimr, ~-;i,c;c,mt Mdn.1ging Edimr and dq,;,urml!nt editor~. Commenrarh."ii. lem:n, .mJ columns p1t!ienc tht" ,·ie\',,·S of the autlwr:,; and nut ncc-:ssarily tlmsc on11e Ob::i:crvcr. Vkwpoim spucc is ilVuilablc to .1!1 mcmhers of t:hi: Nom: L)amc/S;1in1 Mary'i. community and co ,dl rc-.1Jcn. ·rhc: free expression of'V,uying opinions through !euc~ i~ rncoutaJ(eJ. 
Coma.:ting The Observer 

Editor-in-Chkf 631-4542 Office M•mger/Gmer,I Information 631-7471 M~u).lg;ing Ediror/,<\iisistan, ME 631-4541 Businm Office 631-5313 NC"\\'s 631-5323 A<lvwising 631-6900/8840 Vitwpoinc 631-5303 Svsr~rns/Web Admini.maror 631-883') Spom 631-4543 Fax 631-6927 Scene 631-4540 Ad E-Mail obscrver@darwin.a:.nd.edu Saint Mary's 631-4324 News E-Mail observcr.obmcw..!@nd.edu Phoro 631-8767 Viewpoint E-Mail observ«.viewPoint.l@nd.edu 

¦ CAPPY's CORNER 
With So Many Stars There Is No Room For Whiners 
I recently turned 55. Hard to believe that I have out-lived Babe Ruth, Lou Gehrig, Buddy Holly, Elvis and Alexander the Great (I put Al in so it wouldn't look like the limit of my knowl­edge is baseball and old rock-and-roll). 
Cappy Gagnon 

I actually don't feel as old as I former­ly thought one had to feel when one sur­vived this long. I can think of only three signs that I'm entering my dotage. 
The first sign was "the squint." In the early part of 1988, I started using my BJG magnifying glass -the one I use to read the Baseball Encyclopedia -to read everything else. 
The second sign recurred a week ago. l was bending down to pick up my K­Mart glasses {two for $9.98). For some reason, I forgot to factor the corner dresser into my bending equation. As my forehead struck the sharp point of the edge of the dresser, I knew the pain Evander Holyfield must have felt during the pummeling he received from Lennox Lewis ... which was almost as bad a beating as Lewis took from the newly­bankrupt New Jersey woman Don King selected as ring judge. 
My third sign of aging is the subject of this column. I get cranky. 
Not cranky about the world at large, because life has been good to me (I have two wonderful daughters, two sons-in­law I can beat in Trivial Pursuit and two fantastic grandsons). No, I find myself being cranky about WHINERS. Did I miss "The MEMO"'? The one which decri>ed that whining (and/or slamming ND) would be compulsory for most Observer letter-writers and every mem­ber of the South Bend Tribune Sports Section (except for old pro's Joe Doyle and Forrest Miller)?? 
At the risk of losing my Journalism Card, I would like to say some nice things about Notre Dame. I love it here. Jt's not a perfect place, but I've visited more than 100 colleges and I haven't found one I prefer. Monk and Father Bill are doing a great job. The results of their leadership are obvious to anyone who's paying attention. We have great facilities, a great faculty, wonderful stu­dents (although I might want to put a few whiners on the waiver list). and a beautiful campus in immaculate condi­tion. 
And enough freedom that all those people who think they are oppressed seem to find all kinds of University­sponsored forums to yack about their gripes. Keep up the good work, guys. Stay the course. 
Father Sorin created Notre Dame with excellence as his guiding vision. The wonderful presidents who followed Sorin have all adhered to the same vision. Notre Dame is not for everyone. 
We have marvelous athletic facilities, maintained with great care. We have dynamic coaches. And, we do things the right way. 
Someone recently wrote The Observer that there is nothing exciting going on after the football season. This guy has obviously never seen Muffet McGraw's team slaughter Duke and UClA. He's never seen "The Ruth" dominate a game or Danielle and Niele terrorize opposing guards. 
This guy has never seen a lacrosse match (sort of like soccer as interpreted by hockey players). He's certainly never seen Dave Poulin's pucksters. Write it down -you heard it here first -the Irish will be in the Frozen Four next year. This guy has not seen Liz Miller's softball team, which has "gone yard" more than any team in Irish softball his­tory. This guy has not seen Michelle Dasso, with the heart ol' a tiger, or Ryan Sachirc, with his rocket serve, compete for our top-20 tennis programs. This guy has not seen Notre Dame's track team and stars like Joanna Deeter, Jennifer Englehardt, Dore DeBartolo, Liz Grow, Emily Bienko, Patty Rice, et. al. This guy has never seen Marshaun West fly down the track in the 200 or up in the air in the long jump. And does this guy know that pole vaulter Mike Brown was an inch and a half short of 18 feet at the 

NCAAs? 
Mr. Nothing To Do has REALLY not seen Paul Mainieri's baseball team. How about Jeff Wagner, returning after sit­ting out three weeks with a stress frac­ture, and jacking three homers (1,300 feet worth) in a double-header! 
Jeff and Brant Ust, who is merely the best player in the Big East for the sec­ond year in a row, are battling to see who will break Mo Vaughn's career Big East home run record. If those guys are not interesting enough for Mr. What Do I Do After Football, how about Aaron Heilman? All Aaron did last year, as a FRESHMAN relief pitcher, was lead the NATION in ERA Coach Mainieri put Aaron in the rotation this year and Aaron is doing his best Kerry Wood impersonation. When Aaron and his 93 mph heater are on the mound, there are enough scouts in the stands that catcher Paul O'Toole probably glows in the dark from all the radar guns aimed at the back of his tools of ignorance. 
Steve Stanley runs like the wind, is a classic leadoff batter and flags down every thing in the center garden. fellow freshman Andy Bushey is a throwback to Pepper Martin and the Gas House Gang, battling at the hot corner and banging at the plate. The Irish have to pay extra to get his uniform cleaned. 
Streak hitter Jeff Felker is good for a 10-15 stretch each year. when his dad drives out from Baltimore. "Felker's Fools," his off-bnat cheering section, which manages to stay barely on the north side of good taste, provides inspi­ration. Alec Porzel could become anoth­er Ust. 
Unsung players like Ben Cooke and Jeff Perconte are rally starters. And Matt Nussbaum is a perfect model for all that is great about America's national game. Matt was oh-for-career after two years as a fill-in player. Through hard work and an off-season fitness program, Matt has built himself into a very pro­ductive hitter. lie has hit four homers and has been a key part of several late­inning rallies. 
Some whiners' feelings were hurt because we didn't hire Hick Majerus (and sidekick Sonny Vaccaro) to coach men's hoops. NOBODY doubts that Rick would have filled the Joyce and won lots of games, but I, for one, am glad that we remain committed to winning with class. Majerus brags about trading in his Catechism for "Playboy," admits to sym­pathy for academic cheating, and has spent the past few years traipsing around the country looking for new worlds to conquer (which must make the Utah AD feel like Hilary Clinton when Willie is interviewing interns). Majerus and Sonny Vaccaro (boy, is he aptly named!) may appeal to the "Animal House Crowd," but it's not the Notre Dame way. 
Notre Dame is not perfect, but we won't get better because of people who carp from the sidelines. Take a long look at the Notre Dame jar -it's half full, not half empty. 
Cappy Gagnon. '66. is the Coordinator ofStadium Personnel. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of the Observer. 
¦ DOOi'JESBUIW  
s~~WAIJlffl'9 6AT5, me VFlAN ~GYP5YFAa.11.:rt...  fM A (,(}RNW,.fft[)/ 1 WN'r e.xPee,TTcNUR&, 08V/Ol..l;,/)t /!JUTI tu(XJ/.P ll!<&A TWO-Y&AR C(JNTRAC;;/,fJ/lHMall-c:Al ANO THRE& MONm§ 5e-V&RANC£!  

GARRY TRUDEAU  
ANY (JTHl;R. CANPlfJJfTE!3? I  OV&R. H&R£./IUt<JORJ<. fORfOO!l.1 ~  

¦ 0.UOTE OF THE DAY 
, Rom your parents you 
learn love and laughter 
and how ot put one foot in 
front of the other. But when 
the books are opened you 
discover you have wings.' 
-Helen Hayes 
VIEWPOINT 
Monday, April 12, 1999 ---------------------OBSERVER ---------------~------------page 11 
¦ LFTTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Will Kosovo Be Another Vietnam? 
Vidna111 nwans a hosl of' things to dilforent pno­pl1\ ch•arly, b11t wlw11 Llw military and political pundits on CNN comparn Kosovo to ViPlnam, what do tlwy 11w1u1·t Quagmim, dnbaclc, l111man misery. ,L plao· populaled with IH'oplns with lasl rnmws di!'­ficull Lo pro11ou111·n'! Tlwsn uncloubtndly r<'Jll"Pstrnt so1111• ol'Vintnam's rlwtorirnl appnal. Bul Vintnam alsll brings to lhn !'on: important issues or morality in 11.s. f'orPig11 polity What do,·s it nwan to clrnp bombs on li>rPig1wrs'! 
This is a Cfll('Slion 111a11y /\mi!rinllls may cam to raisn 110w that tlll' U.S. and NATO haw lwgun homhing Yu){osluvia. It is 110L. hownv(ff, the one to whirh most pundits n~rnr when invoking whatever similaritiPs nxist lwtwnPn Kosovo and Vietnam. Thn history or Vidnum has bnun writtnn sev<mLI limns, but in its 111ost rnccnt vnrsion, it prnsnnts ,L wm­pl'lling St:('JHlrio of' Uw U.S. ovnrnxtnnding itsnlf in d1•f'm1s1• of' l11P august principles or human rights and d1\t1H11Tacy. This conws as a shoC'k to tho r11ttd­Prs of tlw 1'1~nlagon l'ap1·rs; to thn readers or Kissi11gt>r's "Whi1P I!nus,• Y1•urs." though. it senrns about right. /\l any rate, rnfnrnncing Vietnam has tlw Pl'foct of' halting any effectual inquiry into tlw morality of tlw prPsPnl military rnmpaign; it is simply tak1•11 as a giwn that tlrn 
U.S. in Kosovo is pursuing a moral mus<' tlH' PIHi of which justifies military aetion. 
.'\II Llw criticism or tlH' Clinton arlminislraLion co111ir111s this imprPssion. Tlw criticism in tlw -,, ( ~ pniss thus for allarks the adminis-I..->,~,,, lralion !'or poor strat,·gy and poor Ji at.~ 
military planning. hut not for a morally suspPcl position. Thal soml' moral ronc1•rns motiv1i U . .S. anti N1\TO appears inrnntrovtwt­ihh•; tlw human mist!ry in Kosovo is v,iry rnm1wlli11g. So comp1dling in fact that <W<'n the French. a pno­plP who it snmns arn gPnetically programmml to dislikn all things associated with tlrn U.S. gowrn­nrnnt. haw jump1id on tho band­wagon ol' NATO intnrv,mtion. This being tlw cas<'. howt'vtir, might thn moral forni or tlw bombing not be qtmsli111wcl'? /\nd yPt in a political rnnlnxt wfwrn tlw brutality of the Vinlnam war t·an b<! ){iven a moral 
-11( M-

was a well known liu:t, at least among military planners, that the Serbs would intensify the ntlinii: cleansing of' Kosovo. So in tlrn short term, at lcasl, the bombing has increased the repression. The U.S. and NATO am tlw11 very fur from preventing nvil. To tho contrary. it appnars that the world is a little more evil today than it was two weeks ago. Now in dol'onse of' Clinton and company il may be argued that tlw Snrhs, no matter what action was taken, would havn oxpc!IAcl the same 400,000 plus Kosovars at any rnln. But this is purely speculative. C11til two wncks ago, thn most rcliahln reports sug­gestml that Scrbia had killed approximately 2,000 oLhnic /\lbanian Kosovars. /\nd this, it ought to be notccl, was clonc over a series of months. This is no minor tragmly, but it is by no means of tlw samo magnitude as the tragedy we siw bnfore us today. 
The implications for tlw region and for U.S.-Hussian rdations are also noteworthy. Tho region as a whole has bonn grnally destabiliznd. with l\1acodonia, Montenegro and Albania all bearing the brunt of' the mass 11xmlus of ethnic Albanians from Kosovo. Furthermore, the situation in Russia, 
while already bleak, seems partic­
ularly disturbing. The economy is 
• in tatters, tho leadership frail and disorganized and the military despondent about its diminished role in the world. These problems arc not new. but why nxacerbate them? Does Hussia really need the additional harassment'1 llas not Lhe IMF already performed this task admirably'? From a geopoliti­cal standpoint. thereforn. it app<mrs that the U.S. and NATO have done little good while they have introduced the potential for much grnater evil in the world. Once morn. if we apply thn rough oulline l'or moral action men­lioncd above, the U.S. and NATO do not appear to be acting in a morally responsible manner. 
Lastly, the one military measure agreed upon by every pundit, including the former Supreme Commander of NATO, is that bombing Serbia can not and will not bring peace to Kosovo. If peace is a real objective, then it is argued that the U.S. and NATO 
spin, whd•p dons 01w bngin? ~------------~ must commit to the use or ground 
To rPturn to the question with which I began, "Is Kosnvo another Vietnam''" Thn answnr is a rnsounding 1111. No. they am not the same because tlm motivating principle is diffnrnnt in each case. The principle bPl1ind Vietnam was not moral in charactPr; U.S. goals in Vi,itnam did not involve anything lik,• making the world safe for democracy. What they did involw would rnquirn morn space tht>n is pnisently available, but if one can conclude that tlw Vietnam war was immoral -an opinion. mind you, sharnd by the rmijority ,if /\mnricans ­tlwn comparing it to Kosovo dons not follow effort­lessly. lf it happens to be thn case that bombing Yugoslavia is morally justified, it must be estab­lislwd inclep(mdently of Vietnam. Moral concerns 1·a11 not simply be asstmwd lo exist as a matter of fact. for ii' tlw lessons or Vintnam tnuch us any-tiling. LIH•y t<iach us that international relations rnsPmbl1i at lwst a Iloblwsian state of naturn. 
So. what can orm sny about U.S. and NATO poli­cy? To IJPgin. llrn moral question must bn exam­i1wd. What docs moral action require? Aquinas says that mw ought to do good and avoid evil; sonwwhat. morl' emphatically, W(i might say that 01u: ought not 11nly to do good, but rnust also prn­vrn1t 1wil wlwrrnv1•r possibhi. This may or may not lw a sound maxim l'or foreign policy, but it may s11rvn as a usdul premise for what it means to act in a morally rPsponsihle manner. MorPover, it acrnnls wnll with the clnfinition articulatnd hy l'rnsidcnt Clinton. lie said that while tlw U.S. can­not prPvmll all human misMy, it must do what it can. l'revnnling llw Snrbs rrom massacring tlrn Kosovars is prosu111ably sonwthing that tho U.S. can do. and. ii' w,i takii Clinton lo bn sincere, it is prncisnly what t.lw U.S. is doing in Yugoslavia. But what ol' this claim'! The action by tlw U.S. ancl NATO has thus far only intensilind Serbian commit­lml atrocitilis in Kosovo. According to Wt!slcy Clark. supreme all ind commander of NATO, this was ,·ntirnly "predictable." 011ce the bombing started, it forces. But this has been categorically ruled out by Clinton and company. In fact. to the incredulity or many retired military personnel, Clinton and com­pany havn not even performed basic battle assess­mcnts! I low compelling can the moral cause of a nation be if its leaders are not willing to pay the political price of putting its own citizens in harm's way'! So to put it bluntly, if Clinton and company were in military school, they'd have received an "I" for incompetence; if enrolled in a Thomistic Academy for rt10rnl irtstruction they'd have received an "I" for immoral behavior -although. given Clinton's status as a politician, perhaps he ought simply get an "I" for impeachment. 
The media have benn especially critical of Prnsident Clinton, but the prcmiso that this military campaign is morally justified goes unquestioned. At times. tlw question itself' seems boyond tho political horizon of the vast mnjority of media pundits, Democrat and Hepublican alike. Personally, I am amazed al how pnorly planned Urn military cam­paign has benn; the failure to plan l'or the deploy­ment ol' ground forces is simply baffling; and the surprise that many have <lxpressed about the onor­mity of' the rel'ugec crisis is stupcl)'ing. Clinton has had grand success running the country with one hand flapping in I.he wind, sensing Lhe ever-subtle patterns of' public opinion, and now he's doing the same with many lives at stake. Considering some of these events, it is appropriate tn question the moral basis for the bombing. Simply becauso an evil oxists doos not r<mf'er on all thoso who oppose it a moral status. Moral action requirPs considHration of consoquonco. If morn evil is produced as a result of' action, it is OK to stand back and lak<' no force­rul action. Diplomacy remains always an option howovnr, ovun though it may seem ullerly futile. 
Daniel Leger Government Graduate Student April 9, I999 
Baseball '99 The Fat Get Fatter 
l'vn watched nxactly thrn<i innings of basnball this season, and already tlrn thnmP of' '<J<J is scrmuning out in my head. It's oxcnss, a condition that likn a burgeoning waistlinn was getting bad while nobody noticed. Kind of like tlw Kansas City Hoyals. By the lime wn arrivod at whore we am now, there was no way of' controlling tho boast's gluttonous splurge. Lots of people complain about Urn game and some arn sick of hearing it. Nothing in this world is porl'ect, least of all baseball, but this season, it snerns the abusos am morn than out or control. Somehow. betwe11n the birth of rotating backstop salesmen and tho annual ritual of what wn like to call "the firesale," wo bncamf1 far too coml'ortablo with this excess. Or at least too irnmunn to it. Wo as fans havo lnant our silent approval, to say tlrn lnast. 
I'm not just talking about the salarins either; that 0110 gons without saying. The players make too much. Wn know tlwy mako too much. Ld's move 011. /\s long as we !mad lo tho park or turn on tho TV, the salaries will continue to climb. That's not baseball, it's economics. You don't liko it talk to Adam Smith, Big George can't do anything for you. lnst,iad of the salaries. then, the f'ocus should be on somn of tlrn game's othor problnms, the onos I round most glaring l'rom innings one through three of the Opnning Day tilt bntween the Dodgers and Arizona. Evon the marqw1n makns me long for the good old days when L./\. was tho baseball f'rontior, but that's a whole other storv. 
The aesthetic of baseball is tlrn first thing arna in nmid of' dire rnpair. Way back btifore thn San Jose Sharks brought teal to pro sports, any fan could color the logo or his favorite team with a basic eight piece pack of crayons. This single file could illuminate the entire leagun from New England to the Northwest. Now tlrn younger generation needs to do its best Rainbow Brite imitation, enlisting thn services of thn 64-member spectrum in the great Crayola army. The way I see it, there's fmtirely too much teal and topo in today's game. /\nd black -way too much black. It was a lot easier to just glance at a game when the home tnam worn whitn, the roadies gray and the UMPIHES black. No longer. Now we're graced with 6-foot-10 Handy Johnson, already a chat• lcnge to the naked eye, clad in colors that I can't even namn. Such a problem might be inherent in the fact that not many know exactly what a diamondback is. much less its color. But the name battle is another to the list that I won't even address. These gripes have Iert me too weary. 
Issue number two is not so much baseball's rault as it is the clowns who bring it to us. The details of the gamn have grown too lacy and frilly and in the process, pushed our attention away from the diamond. (That's the place whern the players stand. The guys with the gloves. Hight.I The fact that I now know Jay Bell garnnred an avorage of 4.15 pitch­es pm· at-bat last season frightens me. Imagine tlurn how I feel when I realize that this was third in thn major leaguns. In their endless quest to squeeze interest out of areas that just don't have it (the nmnber of"m"s in Zimmer for instance) baseball producers have made the gamo far more mundane that exciting. The triple crown stats on both sides of the mound -that's all we noed to know. /\II the rest is mere fodder for arbitrators and minutia for rotisseries. Give me the play-by-play and some color sure, what I don't nnNI to know is everything else. 
Finally is the beast conceived equally by the fans and the media. Though it stems from one man, I in no way blame him. I'm sure if you could ask Mark Mc(;wire, Im wouldn't argue. Focusing every effort of every medium on the 24 activities of' Big Mac's daily life not only insults tho rest of the game's superstars, but shortchanges morn the man and his accomplishments. McGwire launched a star for us, but we just can't seem to let it shine. I weep for tho day, coming soon to a broadcast near you, when a vital regional pnnnant race (say Houston and Chicago) is pre-empted nationwide by the Cards and 11rewers liw~ from County Stadium. They gave it to us in April's equal home run standing, why not in September when McGwirn's race against himself heads for ho111t!? The lat<~ Joo DiMaggio was often criticized for what fans and the media saw as an arrogant exclusiveness. Having snen firsthand the birth or McGwiro's monster. few can blame the Clipper, a comparable icon of his era, for such hermitesqtw behavior. HogPr Maris oncP said that breaking the record was Urn worst thing to happon to his career. llere's hoping wo blessed fans don't make it the same for McGwirn. 
That I'll give my heart to the Mets again this summer, prnbably for them to come up short of the series this !'all. is the least of my baseball worries this year. For a pariid-down game, one with fewer colors, stats and nxploitation of all (but especially some). I make my most powerful birthday cake wishos. I would uso them on the Mots. bul this situation seems a little more despnrate than ovon no playoffs in the last l O years. My hopes f'or a streamlinnd pastimn, at this point anyway, far outweighs my praynrs for anothnr game six. My patience for the Mets will always last until next y1~ar: it's the other stuff I'm not so suro about. · 
Paul Camarata Freshman, Dillon I!all April I0, 1999 


page 12 
Ready. Set. 'Go.' 
film is nol a typical Hollywood production.
"Go" 

Liman is kind of a wild man, willing to take a few 
Director: Doug Liman risks in the intcm,st of con­structing a better movie.
Starring: Katie Holmes, Scott Wolf, Jay 
Mohr and Taye Diggs 
'""·) 
_;tJ 

(Out offive shamrocks) 

By CHRISTIAN PIERCE 
Scene Movie Critic 
go I. to move along; proceed: going by bus. 2. to move away from a place; depart: Go before l really get mad. 3. the extraordinary new film by director Doug Uman 
That's right. Director Doug Liman, who debuted with the critical­ly acclaimed "Swingers," has released a new film, "Go." 
The film is a rather large but worthwhile gamble for Paramount Pictures due to the imag­ination and creative genius of Liman. Many in the industry seem to vvonder if Liman has what it lakes to make it because he doesn' t abide by all the rules. 
As the advertisements have displayed, a Liman 
This style paid off with his independent film "Swingers," but does he have the skill to fashion another film of the same caliber? 
Paramount seems will­ing to take the plunge, but will the rest of America? 
Well, this weekend many questions were 
asked about Doug Liman. Through his film, Liman replied with absolute brilliance. 
"Go" is an incredibly fast-paced story that follows three groups of people during a late-night adventure. Liman opted to construct the film by focusing on three different points-of-view, an interesting option that truly paid otT. 
The film begins by following Ronna, a struggling supermarket clerk played hy Sarah Polley. Ronna needs cash quickly because she is about to be evicted from her apartment. 
As luck would have it, an opportunity arises when Simon (Desmond Askew) needs someone to cover his shift. Ronna seizes the hours for some extra cash, but still needs a little dough. 
While working the checkout, Adam fScott Wolf) and Zack (Jay Mohr) ask Ronna where they can find Simon. 
Simon, as the audience discovers, uses the grocery store as a front for his drug sah~s, but now that he is in Las Vegas, his regular customers have no whore lo turn. Honna takes only a ITIOITifH1l to contem­plate the situation: Sho will got them their drugs and earn enough money to keep her apartment. 
As lhe night continues. the viewer learns of this incredible rave that is taking place -a Christmas party not to be missed. With a rave one SHes a prolifera­tion of drug sales: the dealers are rather busy. 
Ronna contacts Simon's supplier and convinces him to cut a deal. She does a lit­tle sweet-talking and gets the stuff for Adam and Zack, but the plot thickens. 
Adam and Zack require some Ecstasy for the rave, or so they lead Ronna to believe. Actually, Adam and Zack are in some trouble with the law, but if they cooperate with Officer Burke (William Fichtner), then all charges will be dropped. 
Ronna smells a trap and is suspicious when she finds thrne guys looking to score some Ectasy in an empty house. Their body language is a little weird, so Ronna decides to flush the evidence. 
But wait. She doesn't make the sale, so she has no money and will be evicted. 
Well, Ronna is a crafty person who won't give up that easily, especially since she still owes the drug dealer a consider­able amount of money and her friend Claire (Katie Holmes) is still with him. At any rate, the film goes on to reveal how all the characters arc intertwined. 
The film begins by following Ronna, then Simon and finally Adam and Zack. Each sequence is an invigorating bit of film making, particularly the events that go down in Las Vegas with good ol' Simon. 
Amazingly, everything they do has some 

Pho!o courtesy of Columbia Pic!ures 
Katie Holmes plays Claire in the fast­paced film. "Go" 
effect. Liman shows the viewer the reper­cussions of one's actions, those that result from a night of sex, drugs and violence. To reveal any more of the plot would do injustice to Liman and his film. Just know that this is a wild ride -with incredible camera work, superb acting by a rather young cast and an extraordinary sound­track. 
Doug Liman again has proven his worth in tbe industry. This talented, young director knows what it takes to capture an audience and truly excites his viewers. 
With only his second film, Liman is rev­olutionizing the industry. He does not make the same Hollywood garbage that is seen overflowing theaters. Instead, Liman takes a few risks and pushes the medium of film to an amazing, new level. This film is highly recommended. It is a film that will be talked about for months lo come. 
This is no "Swingers," rather a unique idea that proves Liman's ingenuity. This is a director to look for in the future, one that I feel will soon reccivr, the respect and admiration he deserves. Basically, the advice here is to go see "Go." 


Ten reasons not to see these 'things' 
stereotypical dorky guy. 
During this get­
acquainted stroll, the
"10 Things I Hate About 

new kid is introduced to all the intricacies of high school life that he has no 
You" 

Director: Gil Junger 
doubt seen at every other school he has
Starring: Heath Ledger, Julia Stiles and 
Joseph Gordon-Levitt 
l 
J's.) 
(Out offive shamrocks) 

By JENELLE WILLIAMS 
Scene Movie Critic 
"How do I loathe thee? Let me count the ways." 
A quote from Shakespeare, right? 
Not quite. 
It is actually the slogan for the latest 

"coming-of-age" movie -a film brim­ming with unrequited love, teen angst 1tnd a totally unrealistic prom scene. What an original idea! 
While "10 Things I Hate /\bout You," allegedly based on "The Taming of The Shrew," attempts to pul. the age-old story into a modern context so it appeals to a new generation, its shallow characters, unoriginal and nonsensical d.ialogue and unforgivably predictable ending only serve to butcher Shakespeare. 
The film starts with a new kid in town. Cameron, an army brat who has attended numerous high schools, is a normal-looking guy, kind of small for his age, but still adorable. The scene opens with young Cameron entering his first day at yet another school. 
i\fter the token visit to the guidance counselor, he gets the grand tour of his newest educational institution from the 
attended. But then, he 
sees "her." 

The music slows and 
the camera focuses on 
the solitary beauty mov­
ing in slow motion 
across the lunch area. 
As the breeze gently 
blows through her hair, 
there is a sort of angelic glow surrounding her radiant smile. [ndeed, it is love at first sight -at the age of 16. So of course, Cameron and his tour guide-turned-sidekick must come up with a plan to get this vision of loveliness to date the lowly newcomer, since unconventional means are too banal. 
But no! 

It is not even that easy, for Bianca is not even allowed to date. Her overly protective father, so fearful of pregnan­cy. places an absurd restriction on his blooming daughter's social adventures. She cannot date until her older sister Kat decides to do so. 
Kat, however. is no princess of popu­larity or socialiLe but the girl that every­one hates. She spends her time reading, playing soccer, keeping to herself and generally not caring about anyone or others' opinions. The last thing this independent, introverted woman wants to do is date some childish high school boy. 
So if Cameron wants to get the girl. he has to make Kat a "normal" teenage girl by breaking her out of her anti-social mindset. To do so, he simply needs the right guy. Not to worry -he has a plan. 
From here the plot twists and turns, adds some com­pletely pre­dictable conflict to the already idiotic plot and eventually comes to the biggest scene in the movie -the prom. 

Must every movie about teenagers involve a prom scene? 
The charac­ters in no way make up for the 
lack of suspense Photo courtesy of Buena Vista Pictures or intrigue. Heath Ledger (left) stars as Patrick in "10 Things I Hate About You." 
They can be dif­ferentiated into two groups: shallow main characters and shallow random characters. 
Main characters include Cameron, Bianca, Kat, Joey and Patrick. Cameron is the would-be hero who actually gets shoverl aside from the spot light as the plot thickens. He is always accompanied by his loyal sidekick. 
Bianca is the popular girl in school. Every guy wants her, hut none can have her. She is superficial and selfish. Of course, Cameron only likes her for inno­cent reasons, like her love for humanity and hf'lr intelligence. 
Joey is the brainless teen model who Bianca lusts for, ancJ who plans to sleep with her as a "challenge." 
Patrick is the guy everyone hates. Jle sticks to himself, wears black and has long hair. Of coursn, he is rumorC'd to have spent lime in prison. [s he really as tough as he pretends" This is one of the movie's great mysteries. 
The random characters are even morn annoying than the main charac­ters. It is difficult to decipher exactly what their role in the movie is. Comic relief would be a justified guess, howev­er, their appearances are anything but humorous. 
The setting is unrealistic and even absurd. The school is much like a palace, complete with an oceanside view. Within its walls lie the typical composition of students portray1~<l by movies such as this one -a bunch of stereotypical cliques. Who could really walk through his high school and clear­ly distinguish the different groups" To say the least, this setting is exaggerated. 
The themes or morals of the lilm are not only childish but almost offensive. It uses shallow definitions ol' love as the basis for 1wery relationship portrayed. It suggests that people are only happy when they have a significant other and that not to have one is a character flaw. 
The only redeeming quality of this f'ilm may be its soundtrack, although even that is questionable. And it in no way compensates for the other crucial elements which fail to form a decent movie. It is not worth the bigh price of a theater visit; and it's only worth renting if its thll last movie leH on the shelf. 
Se~ne 
Monday.April 12, 1999------------------OBSERVER --------------------page 13 
¦ VIDEO PICK OF THE WEEK 


¦ CHART-TOPPERS 
Keanu 'speeds' at the box-office 
Movie Title Gross Sales 
1
. The Matrix $ 22.2 million 

2. 
Never Been Kissed $ 11. 7 million 

3. 
The Out-of-Towners $ 5. 3 million 

4. 
10 Things I Hate $ 5.2 million About You 

5. 
Analyze This $ 5.1 million 

6. 
Go $ 4.7 million 

7. 
Forces of Nature $ 3.7 million 

8. 
Twin Dragons $ 2.8 million 

9. 
Doug's First Movie $ 2.3 million 

10. 
Foolish $ 2.3 million 


Source: Associated Pres, 

Movie Title 
1. There's Something About 
Mary 
2. 
Ronin 

3. 
The Waterboy 

4. 
The Truman Show 

5. 
Bulworth 

6. 
What Dreams May Come 

7. 
Snake Eyes 

8. 
Pleasantville 

9. 
Rush Hour 

10. 
Practical Magic 


Source: Billboard Online 

-
-

01111ng 

~;i?.~ o on 
~~,?Tu a theate,.-!'Ile~~ -to~ 
April 16: 
Life, starring Eddie Murphy and Martin Lawrence 
Goodbye Lover, starring Patricia Arquette and Dermot Mulroney 
April 23: 
Anywhere But Here, starring Susan Sarandon and Natalie Portman Pushing Tin, starring John Cusack, Billy Bob Thornton and Cate Blanchett 
Lost and Found, starring David Spade and Sophie Marceau 
By JULIE HAMILTON 
Assis1ant Scene F.Ji1or 
Convincing Martin Blank to attend his 10-y<iar high school rnunion is no uasy task. 
How can he rnturn lo his hometown and explain that he "freaked out, joinflCl the army, went into business for (himJsclf and became a profossional killer'?" 
Welcome to Grosse Pointe lligh School's Class of 1986 reunion, lhe set­ting for the dark comedy "(;rossc Pointe Blank." This is a film that humorously approaches the topics of high school rnunions. things left behind and long-lost lovcs. 
Socializing with former classmalcs in his old gymnasium is not on lllank's list of things to do; he is a man whos11 frinndly ir.H-brnakcr would be: "Iii. I killed the President ol' Parahruay with a fork, how have ym1 b1Hm'!" 
Martin Uohn Cusack) just hasn't lll'Pll hims1ilr lately. llis assistant. Marcnlla (Juan Cusack). im{l1inis, "II' you don't mind mn asking, sir, is it th1~ job'? Is it getting to you'?" Martin sim·­ply shrugs ol'f the 1imotional conse­qwmcns of' killing peo­ple by stating "It's not nrn" if nvnr conf'rontnd l'acn-lo-!"acc with thn victim. lln figures tlHn-11's a mason he was hired tu kill thrnn. It's just a job. 
As if he donsn't havn nnough identity issu()S, add the bm1utiful DPbi (Minnie Driver), Marlin's high school girlf'ricnd whom he hasn't sen,1 or spoke11 to since the night of llwir sm1ior prom, when he never arrived to pick her up. Ev11n though he left her in the past, Martin hasn't forgotten about IJ1ibi. IIn has recurring dreams about her 011 a weekly basis, which qualifies him as "obsessivn." (Hnmind anyone of Ben Stiller in "There's Somnthing !\bout Mary?") 
So Martin ends up in Grosse Pointe on the weekend of the reunion by coinci­dence; he's been assigned to a "job" tlmre. 
Ilo returns to the scenic city to find his childhood home replaced crudely by an "Ultimart" convenience store. To say the least. he is shocked, asking Lhe clerk in amazement, "What are you doing here?'" 
The job that Blank has been sent to · complete was originally assigned to his hyperactive competitor, Grocer, por­trayed by Dan Aykroyd. Grocer is furious that Blank has edged his way onto his job and decides to make Martin his target instead. Now it is only a matter or time lmfore u showdown erupts between the two killers. 
When Debi and Martin finally come face-to-face, the most humorous conversa­tion opportunities in the film result. Debi is shocked to see Martin as he casually enters her broadcast­ing booth al the local radio station. She can't believe that her "long, lost love" has returnnd. 
But Debi doesn't lot him off that easy. She grills him on air about the emotional damage he caused her by leaving on the night of the prom without explanation. 
Martin concen­trates on Debi so intently that he hasn't even done the job yet. The night or the reunion arrives and the clock is tick­ing. Martin has to decide what he's 
going to do: Make the kill or get the girl? 
The chemistry between the former lovers returns substantially and is visible at the reunion. Unfortunately, the inevitable happens, and Martin's career intcrf'erns with the outcome of the evening. 
"Grosse Pointe Blank" is an entertain­ing and humorous film that doesn't nec­essarily lit into the mold of most movies as a strict comndy, drama or romance. For something different but satisfying, mnt Grosse Pointe. 



page 14 The Observer• SPORTS Monday, April 12, 1999 
¦ SOFTBALL 
Irish stay undefeated in conference 

The Observer/Liz Lang 
The Irish softball team hung onto its undefeated conference record this weekend with a doubleheader sweep 
over Rutgers. By MATT OLIVA 
Spores Writer 
Two weekend wins against Rutgers helped the Notre Dame softball team hang onto its undefeated conference record (4-0) and gave head coach Liz Miller her 800th career victory. 
The historic win came with the second game and moved Miller's coaching record to 800-272. a .746 career win­ning percentage. 
In the first game, the Irish, who moved to 25-15 on the season, defeated the Scarlet Knights 4-2. Jennifer Sharron (9-6) earned the victory on the mound for the Irish. striking out 11. 
Sharron held Rutgers off the scoreboard until pitcher Juliette Brooks hit a solo home run for the Scarlet Knights in the bottom of the sixth. 

Thev added another run in the bottom of the seventh after the number nine hitter singled in a runner from second with two outs. The Irish ended a final inning threat on the same play when the runner on first tried to stretch it to third and was gunned out by catcher Kris McCleary. 
The Irish offense lit the spark in the third inning with Amy Laboe's solo home run, her third of the year. The run set an all-time team record ­18 home runs in a season. 
Notre Dame added two more runs in the fourth inning with the help of three Rutgers ' errors. The fourth run came in the fifth inning when Laboe double and later scored on a sacrifice fly by McCleary. 
The second game lasted only five innings as Notre Dame defeated the home team 9-1. Angela Bessolo picked up the victory, moving her record to 8-5. 
She struck out five and allowed the onlv one run in the top of the second inning. For the week. Bessolo has two wins and a save in three appearances and a 0.60 ERA. She pitched the entire game for her second complete game in a row and fifth this year. 

Mel Alkire hit a home run to deep center with one out in the third inning and Jenny Kriech added her first career home run in the fifth inning. The two home runs increased their school record totals to 20 home runs each in a season. 
Seven batters had hits for the Irish. led by Alkire and Jarrah Myers who each went 2-t'or-3. Notre Dame scored three runs in the second, one in the third and five in the fifth for the eventual 9-1 out­come. 
The Irish were supposed to take on Villanova on Sunday but both games were rained out. The games were resched­uled and will be played today at noon. 
Sharron is expected to start game one while Bessolo is the expected starter for game two. 
···•····•y•·····•..•·•••·::l>i~ar.s 
1

i~ilit 
ires ;~it6 ;i z;~fooi e~gle putt 
.· .... ·• .•· ····· O.J'I.•··· tijt}····'.l.·3th... J1 .... ·10..p.g···•· can...1. e.,
..o.1. ~•.···.a..
•..·.···.o....·.·.a.··...· n.1 .. ,. u ·1 .. h. h d h" · .. 
, v a.:za.':la . ~ o••. <I!, > 1s ovv.n 
.Bd.Up. i,measq.~e,:ot~e4einptii.m.to fulc
./···· Jose 
J§;ed Jo 
cl. ••· .···•·. ··.•· s.~~cqn < a~tlrs,. and
µf~g~~prrn~11• W?n<iering. if he ,wgJtJti.~vet ~lt((Jn~.
Olazabal ,could have 
mare.Md alon~ an.d accepted · ·iori h.e earned with blti playthat sAparat~ rro.m adozen. othgrmlets. at Augu.$ta, 
, • • g.. h~/ .w~fted .. for 
,· with whom he has .mp·~~ \:0 ~().~ntOn than their 
n)1;rnJfer ,of g.reen jackets .Jl3,ig'?t~ugge.~~'> .· ·. ·..•· . ·• 
.~?tp ~1r~ ~f:l~kjng redemp·i'.f:to.µ'. '. ()t'ai9,.hal' from a .c1•ip­,pJi~~4riJnry tfrat ~fjfoared:...yoHJ.~ .9tirl+,µI~ cateer,. an<l :No:Vinau.fr..o.tii.. the mental 
•tJ:i,~t· )\llj'.l'mta has 
'.' :cix~rthe years..d..(l$.epyes .th¢ 
· · a11yb[tt\Y 
pth of. his h ............. uld cry h@,l'lp '\VDnder.•.if·h,e '%~lk.agatq;• 1et nOthef round of 
l sh,ed. Sunday>.of a MC\stets 
.diffif:ti.lfto expresstl.f(11iir pafticular SP(l(;i{l.lly after what gh/' he.said. "To e;t·· QU:.•Jn.•··a'.•green 
hle,vementl 'rikabotit." 
q/hew~s
.. bat 
.. tUL ... ··.···.· ......·. .. .· .· .. H.t:i r~UJnjc<l home a 20-(oot birdie putt on top of Norman tp • pull into a tie, tht'.ln. showed off' the brilliant .short game that carried him to the 1994 Masters -just like then, he didn't have a three-putt over 72 holes. Moffl hnportantly, Olazabal d.idn't lrtake a bogey over the fiµ.al}3 holes. H0 closed out lits orie,under 71 with a 4-foot putt for par, and donned a green jacket ohce again. 
And then he cried . 
Asked about his family. who c'ou.ldn't bear to watch when Olazabal had to crawl around their house in Spain, the 33­year0 0Id put his hand over his 
face and began to sob. 
''Wlie.nI.\\'as at my lowest, l n1:.wer thought about this hap­penin.~ ag~ln,?he Si;tid, "I will exnbr.l,l¢e. my:f11mUy, for sure." 
•···••• lJe won by two strokes over PaVis:LoveIH with .. a 280, the hjghtisf Winning score in the Masters in lO yea.rs. Norman. playing in the final gro1Jp at a major/championship for the eighth ·time.·· finished third at 
283. 

When Olazabal won in 1994, the gallery was pulling for Tom Lehman. Once again, the ¢heers belonged to someone else.~· Norman, the sentimen­tal favorite. 
As usual, the groans also followed· Norman. 
"It was a succesi,ful week. and ij,sad week, all rolled up in, one," Norman Said. "It's not a.i.heartbreak. Don't make a 
QUOtain out of a· molehill on
o.ne:? 

~s ~asn'tnearlyJ:ts.. shock­as · e.naps~ tn l996; 
o .. JlU squandered a keJeadtoNick Faldo 
th~>tin.~l·•round,·.·.NOrmansJrilpJy drnn·t 01ake••.the>shots that Aug1.1sta requires. of its champioQs onthe final holes; 
Olazabal and Norman ~~<;ani1\ <;lose.·.. friendsthrQugh t'}leir tiille away from golf. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid.
--Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
ILOST & FOUND I benefits,including room discounts Apply at 515 Dixieway North.  $175/PERSON.  .frame.New.never used.still in plas­tic.$235  LOOKING 1or a great part-time job  The sports department is a bunch  
219-862-2082  next fall? The Copy Shop in  of 9021 O haters.  
Lost:  100 CDs that were in a black  AMERICAN FLYER trains ­ top  STAYING IN SOUTH BEND FOR  LaFortune is now accepting STU- 
CaseLogic carrying case. Lost in  dollar paid, call Dave at 273-9015 ·  THE SUMMER???  DENT applications for '99-'00. Only  None of them has ever experienced  
LaFortune the night of 2/26/99.  Lovely five-bedroom, single family  Furniture for sale:couch, chairs,  a few student postitions are avail- the physical joy that runs through  
Monetary reward being offered ii  Wanted: 2 room mates for 5-bed­ house available for sub-lease.  entertainment center. beds  able so apply now.  my body as Dylan comes on the  
- found. No questions asked. Please call Brian at 4-1126 w/ any  room house on St Peter Street. Call Tony. 634-1694  About a mile from campus. Safe neighborhood. Clean. Two  Call 243-2856  ARE YOU AN ADOPTED WHITE  screen.  
info.  window air-conditioners.  FOR SALE: bed, couch, kitchen  FEMALE,  
YOUR BABY NEED A HOME?  Washer and dryer, stove, refrige.  table and more  INDIANA-BORN ON JULY 14?  SCARY. VERY VERY SCARY.  
!REWARD!  OUR HOME NEEDS A BABYI  Call 634-0562 for info.  CALL 243-7686  REPLY WITH YEAR AND CITY OF  
Blue L.L.Bean backpack losVstolen  Loving married couple seeks new- BIRTH TO 2776 CLARY TRACE,  And if you think production assis­ 
04/01 in parking lot b/t Lyons & Morrissey. If you have it or know  born to adopt.Waiting to shower a child with lots of love  Summer sublease ND Apts x4415  TICKETS  ROSWELL, GA 30075.  tants with weird FOX TV fetishes are scary, you should see copy edi­ 
where it is. please follow your con­ & attention.Will provide strong lami- Marie ­ I'm glad you had fun at  tors at 3 a.m.  
science  ly environment and secure financial  HOUSE:SUMMER SUBLEASE  ROD STEWART 3rd  ROW  "the dance." Luv, shan  
& call 4-2900 to return it to its  lulure.AII allowable medical & legal  Bright, handsome 2 BR very close  APRIL 14 ..  272-7233  Hi Paul. You are awake.  So am L  
owner. THANK YOU!  expenses paid.For more  to Main Gate on Pokagon. AC,  JW & Aut ­ time to party like  Isn't this great?  
informalion about us.please call toll  W&D, garage, yard, full kitchen with  I need xtra Graduation Tickets.  sophomore year! Fajita ritas and  
Large, double pocket L.L Bean  free 1-888-652-8422  M/W and DW. furnished. 631-8084  Will pay generouslyl!!  another word here that rhymes.  Dillon boys -I love you all, even  
tlackpack w/ Pietasters patch. $50  Dan and Tracy  
 Call x-1237 ask for Mike  though you think I diss you, which I  
cash reward 1t returned w/contents.  ·working through adoption attorney  VARSITY CLUBS OF AMERICA  Ali -get ready to party, birthday  DO NOT. You know that we love  
No questions asked. call 634-1061  EARN $6K-$9K/YR EXTRA!  1 bdrm suite · sleeps 4 May 14-21 $700 or selling gradua- PERSONAL  girl. I'm !akin' ya to Jersey ­home, you know.  back  you. Don't try to deny it.  
Local Area Counselors  lion week time share.  But back to the matter at hand, this  
Lost Glasses: black, metal,  needed.Enjoy cross-cultural  For details 1-219-875-4335.  Fax it fast at THE COPY SHOP in  G-funk: where have you been?  week on 90210 Dylan and Matt find  
oval, Safilo frames, clip on  experiences?Support families and  Lafortune. FAX Sending and  Actually, where have I been? Let's  common ground in the pool hall.  
sunglasses; black case. It found call Paul @ 4-4765  int'I nannies.Contact Kristen 888­222-2966  FOR SALE  Receiving: 631-FAX1  have togetherness.  
 
knelson@appchildcrest.com  When you need copies ..  Noah luvs Dylan 4-eva! Dylan  He will ask Kelly who she would  
WANTED Hotel Help Wanted  I!  FOR RENT  NEW Rates Phone Cards 282 min. $20 call 258-4805 GUITAR-Fender Electric/Acoustic,  We're OPENI!! THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center  McKay is s000000 hot, don't you agree? I Love Kathleen. These are all for  want to be stuck on a desert island with... can you guess her answer?? This all of course is simply a way of  
Holiday Inn/Univ. Area needs full &  BED 'N BREAKFAST  cut-away body, 1 yr old.  $350 or  631-COPY  you. You can't tell, but they are.  living one's life through fictitious  
part time help for Rest. & Bar  REGISTRY  BIO. Includes case and stand.  characters.  It is in fact a very sad  
Server, Bartender.Night Auditor,PM  219-291-7153  Call Greg at 271-0138  Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight  I love it here. It is too fun.  I can't  way of admitting one really needs a  
Van Driver.Desk Clerk.Banquet  Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm  take it anymore.  woman. Hey, i'm really nice tao. i  
Capt. &  5/6 BDRM HOMES. NEAR CAM- Beautiful brass bed,queen size.with  Sat: Noon-6:00pm  got a car, DVD player great man­ 
Sen,ers.Oulstanding  PUS. FURN. 272-6551  orthopedic mattress set and deluxe  Sun: Noon-Midnight  I have nothing to say. Nothing.  ners... call me  

The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT
Monday, April 12, 1999 Page 15 

Abortion, euthanasia and capital 
-punishment demean the lives of 
countless inciividuals in our society. Gather with us in Eucharistic Adoration. to pray for an end to the culture of death. 
Jesus is here with us in the Eucharist to give us answers-answers 
that will lead us lo truth, happiness and pe.1ce. In this rnlture of 
death, it is easy for people to become weary and indifferent to God and His gift of life. People often fall short of their obligation lO care for and nurture the spiritual and physical lives of themselves and oth­
ers. Eucharistic Adoration gives a person the opportunity to nurture his own spiritual life, as well as the spiritual lives of others 
( through prayer for them.) Prayer also protects the physical 
lives of those endangered by abortion, euthanasia nnd 
other forms of violence. It is only through the grace which 
comes-from prayer that others' hearts can be changed from 
seeking death to loving life. Christ gives us the strength to press 
on in our battle for life. fn order to be Christ-like in our service 
to preserve life, we must be filled with Ilis life through prayer. 
We ask you to join us in prayer for life at Eucharistic Adoration. 
What is Eucharistic Adoration? 
God is present lo us in many ways in our world, but Ile is especially present to us in 
the Eucharist. As Roman Catholics, we believe that Jesus Christ, who lived :2.000 years 
ago, is truly present in the Eucharist. In Eucharistk Adoration, the I fost is placed in 
a monstrance, in order for us lo be able to come ancl pray. Jesus is always hidden in 
the tabernacle, but in adoration lie is exposed so that we can come and kneel before 
Him, face to iace, and speak with God. When Jesus is exposed like this, lie can never 
be left alone. lhus, people sign up to be responsible lo come and pray with Him for a 
certain amount of time (usually ½-1 hour) eveiy week. 
"! lllafw a holy hour each day in the presence Why should I go? 
JfJesus were to come to the JACC, wouldn't you come and stand in line for hours just
ofJesus in tlie Blessed Sacrament. All my 

to talk to Him for a minutel Even if you weren't Christian, wouldn't you be at least
sisters of tlze Missionaries of Charity mal?e a daily 

interested in this God so many people talk about? Well, Jesus is truly present here on holy lwur as well, because we find that through · campus-in the Eucharist. IN ADORATION YOU HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY TO GO AND SPEAK WITH GOD FACE TO FACE. You can confide in Him, plead with llim,
our daily holy hour our love for Jesus becomes 

question Him. And if you sit quietly enough, He will inspire you with answers. 
more intimate, our love for each other more understanding, and our love for the poor more What do I do when I am there? compassionate ... " When you enter the chapel, you should genuflect as a sign of reverence to Jesus. It is common practice during Adoration to genutlec.t on two knees, instead of just one

-Mother Teresa 

(like you do whenever you enter a chapel.) You can stand, sit, or kneel-whatever helps you pray. And then you pray. There are many ways to pray: you can do spiritual reading; you can pray a rosaiy; you can sit in silence; you can even just talk to Jesus­like you would to a friend. The most important thing is that you love llim and allow Him to love and strengthen you. 
vVhat does the Church think? ­
"Exposition of the Blessed St1c1w11em, whetl1er in a pyx or a mo11stra11ce, is arecogni1io11 of the wondrous Presence oj C/1rist in the sacrament anti stimt1/ates us 10 unite ourselves to Him in a.1piritual co111m1mio11, lt is, accordi11gl}: eminently in harmony with the worship which we owe Him in spirit and trnth ... " 
-Po~t-Cnnciliilr (VJtican II) Document, S.C.D.W. 
Spo11sm~J by Notrl" D,1mc !light to 1.ifo i\MllC • IMI 

EUCI-IAI~ISTIC ADORATION ON CAMPUS: 
FRIDAY: Lady Chapel in the Basilica: 12:00pm (following 11 :30am Mass) -5:00pm with a Rosary beginning at 4: 1Spm. ( Ends with Benediction at 4:45pm) 
MONDAY beginning at 11:30pm (following 11 :OOpm Mass) through TUESDAY at 10:00pm (Ending will1 Benediction at 9:45-W:OOpm) In Fisher Hall Chapel. 

Monday, April 12, 1999 
page 16 The Observer• SPORTS 
¦ Fox SPORTS... ALMOST 
Corporate presence in sports too much, must stop 
By TED FOX 
Sports Columnist 

Watching the Detroit Red Wings and Pittsburgh Penguins do baltle from the Joe Louis Arena Sunday. the thing I noticed most was not the hock­ey or the teams. 
It wasn't the crowd noise or even the little "Fox Box" in the upper-left corner. No. what l noticed was on the ice. but it had absolutely nothing to do with the game being played. 
What stuck out the most for me was an on-ice advertise­ment. 
Now normally, S(1eing this would not catch my aUention. Everything in sports is spon­sored by someone now, so see­ing a "Phil's Bar & Grill" logo that's bigger than the Red Wing doesn't really come as much of a surprise. 
However, this ad was differ­

ent for one special reason: It 
was for Sea World. 
You know, Sea World, the 

aquarium that tries to act like 
it's some sort of an amusement 
park with a whole bunch of 
fish and that whale or a whale, 
Shamu. but fails miserably . 
because there really aren't any 
rides -unless you like being 
thrown off Shamu's snout into 
some seriously dirty water. 
These two small pieces of the 

ocean pie can be found in 
Aurora, Ohio and Orlando, Fla. 
Notice neither one of these 

places was Somewhere, Mich. 
For some reason, that really 
bugs me. 
The corporate presence in 

sports is already bad enough. 
Every jersey has a logo; Every 
piece or board bears a sign. 
The halftime shows are 

brought to you by NASDAQ and the trivia bv AFLAC. 
People watch ·the Super Bowl to see what those frogs are going to croak out before a dis­gruntled lizard named Louie tries to make them croak. 
You can take the official aspirin of' NASCAR and drink the official non-carbonated beverage of the NBA all while eating the official pizza of the Detroit Pistons and watching golfers at The Masters hit the ol'ficial ball of players born between September 10, 19.'iO, and December 2, 197i. 
You can sit down after New Year's and watch tho AT&T Rose Bowl or the Nokia Sugar Bowl. Or maybe you like the Toyota Gator Bowl or the Insight.com Bowl. 
The NRA is on NBC and box­ing runs on pay-per-view for the price of a small car. while you end up watching two rounds. 
Major League Baseball on Fox has the base cam and the catcher cam and the Skoal dip can and the fan in section 126. row 13, seat 2 cam. 
Heck, if the prohibitionists were still having rallies, I wouldn't be all that surprised if they were sponsored by Budweiser, or maybe O'Doul's (because, hey, that's what they drink when they're not drinkin' beer). 
Speaking of beer. when they 
used to show it, I know I got 
more into the Bud Bowl during 
the Super Bowl than the real 
game. I mean, a "real live" 
football game between Bud 
and Bud Light beer bottles 
broadcast during every com­
mercial break! If that wasn't 
heaven, I don't know what 
could be. 
What's the point of all this 
rambling? I'm not really sure either, but I think il goes 

something like this. 
Dear Corporate Sponsor: 
We can accept your sponsor­
ship ofjust about everything there is in sµons today, but please don't advertise the main attraction of another city in our hometown arena. The line has to be drawn some­where. 
I don't know about you, but I don't want to go to the JACC to see a big University of Michigan logo plasterPd on the floor because they gave the university some money. I don't want to go to a Bulls game and see the Pistons horse on the sideline because they paid for a skybox at the United Center. 
If a team or an organization is going to allow every aspect of its existence to be sponsored by someone, at least make it something relevant to the city that the team is in. That at least makes sense. 
Maybe I'm way off base on all this. /\ lot of people proba­bly don't care what they see advertised or where it is dis­played. 
For me, though, whenever I see that Sea World sign, I always wonder "Why'?" 
I guess I'll never know. 
Unless, of course, Sea World offers to pay to melt the rink for the weekend to give Shamu a place to swim, forcing the Wings to go an extonded road trip. 
I guess I could understand then. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe corpo­rately sponsered author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Notre Dame Community Reaching out to the Kosovar Refugees ..... 
Donations will be collected at Campus Ministry: 103 Hesburgh Library 112 Badin Hall 
All donations including the collections from the Masses at the Basilica on Sunday, April 18, will be sent to the Red Cross and Catholic Relief Services. 
-
0MPU5 
tv11NISTRY 
,---------------------------------------------­
Monday, April 12, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 17 

Irish upset high-ranked William and Mary 

~CUT HERE AND HAH8 ON DOORKNOB ___ -,-_____ • ______ ••• ___ -__ -••• 

Dear _____ the grouch, 
There's something you should know. In the morning, you are unbelievably grumpy. And that's putting it very, very nicely. 
So, because I like you, may I suggest you start the day with a CROISSAN'WICH" from BURGER KING: It's filled with mouthwatering sausage, egg and cheese. A.nd that should make anyone less crankll, EWlll you. If it doesn't, then we're on to Plan B. And you don't want to know Plan B. 
Sincerely, ______ 

THE DELICIOUS CROISSAN'WICH." 
I 
' 
I. 
RIGHT NOW JUST 99¢. 
I I I I The Huddle • Lafortune Student Center I I I I I 
I BURGER I I 
KING 
I I 
I 
I It just tastes better:
I I 
·-------~-----------------------------------------­

ww.burgerking.corn LIMITED TIME ONLY. PRICE AND PARTICIPATION MAY VARY DURING BREAKFAST HOURS ONLY. 
0191111 BUGR Kr«; COIU'ORATION. BURGER KING COAl'OPATION ISM EJ<CllJSIVE LICENSEE OF THE "IT JUST TASTES IIElTER" TIWJEMARK ANO 11£ REGISTERED BOOGER KING, CROISSANWICH NlJ BUN IW.'/ES LOGO TRADEMARKS. 
By WES JACOBS 
Spores Writer 

The Notre Dame women's tennis team pulled 
off its biggest win of the year yesterday, beating 
No. 9 William and Mary 5-4, advancing its record 
to 18-6. 

"We played very intense -our kids knew 
William and Mary was a tough match, since 
they're top 10," said coach Jay Louderback. "Wn 
really want to finish in the top 12 teams, and we 
knew that we needed to win this. It's uxciting: wo 
put ourselves in a real good spoi with the win." 
Fiftnenth-rankecl Notre Dame won four of six 
singles matches anrl raced to an 8-Ci win at No. l 
doubles to clinch the victory. Irish seniors Jpn 
Hall and Marisa Velasco. playing in the final 
home matches of' their stellar earners. provided 
the spark that the Irish needed. 
Since losing to UCLA in the National Team 
Indoor Tournament on F11b. 21, the Irish bav1: 
won 12 of 14 matches, with their only losses com­
ing against top 10 teams Arizona State and 
Tennessee. With Sunday's loss, 9th-ranked 
William and Mary !ell to 17-6. 
Velasco equaled her biggest win of the year, 
beating 38th-rankcd Carolijn van Hossum 6-2, 6­
3 at No. 3 singles. 

"Marisa played her best match of the year. She 
lost to this girl last year in three sets, and I could 
tell that she didn't want to lose again," said 
Louderback. 

"It was good getting to play her again and get 
some revenge," said Velasco. "I was fired up -it 
was my last home match. I didn't make too many 
errors and pulled out the win." 
Hall teamed with sophomore Michelle· Dasso as 
Notre Dame's eighth-ranked No. 1 doubles team 
smashed William and Mary's 14th-ranked Tari 
Ann Toro and Laura Tsaggaris 8-0 to clinch the 
win with a 5-2 Irish lead. The Tribe went on to 
win the final two matches at No. 2 and 3 doubles 
to close the gap to make the final margin 5-4. 
"I didn't feel like I played my best in singles, so 
I wanted to redeem myself. We knew that all of 
their doubles teams were tough, so we just came 
out fast and went from there. It was a fun 
match," said the two-time All-American IIall. 
Notre Dame sprinted out of the gate in singles, 
winning four matches in straight sets. Junior 
Kelly Zalinski and freshman Becky Varnum gave 
the Irish a quick 2-0 lead. Zalinski beat Lindsay 
Sullivan 6-2, 6-1 at No. 5 singles. while the 69th­
ranked Varnum beat 19th-ranked Delphine Troch 
6-3, 6-1 at No. 4 singles. Jessyca Arthur gave the 
Tribe its first point of" the match wtth 6-2, 6-3 win 
at No. 6 singles over Irish sophomore Kim Guy. 
Velasco won her match to put the Irish up 3-1, 
and when Dasso won. the Irish wore feeling good 
at 4-1. Dasso edged 42nd-ranked Toro in a tight 
match at No. 1 singles. She served for the first set 
at 5-3 but Toro saved set points for a service 
break and then held serve to rally to 5-5. 
Dasso won the final two games of the sot. In the 
second set, it was Toro who went ahead, leading 
4-1 before Oasso rallied to force the set into a 
tiebreaker, which she won 7-4 for Notre Damu's 
fourth team point of the match. 
In the day's only three-set singles match, 
Carlijn Buis kept William and Mary alive beating 
62nd-ranked Hall 6-3, 4-6, 6-4 at No. 2 singles. 
After Notre Dame closed out the match, the 
doubles teams of' Troch and van Rossum and Buis 
and Sullivan beat Irish foes VarnumNelasco and 
Lindsey Grecn/Zalinski° 8-6 and 9-8 (7), respec­
tively, to make the final margin. 
"When push comes to shove, wn're roarly to play on match day. W11 knew we had to win, so give us crndit," said Velasco. 
Tho win over the ninth-ranknd Trib1i marks 
Notre Dame's second win over a ninth-ranked 
team this year. On March 6, the Irish dnl'eatPrl 
Wake Forest 7 -2. 

In addition, William and Mary beat No. 2 Duke narlier this year, the one tnam to defeat Notre Dame on its home courts. 
Notre Dame closes out its regular-season home schedule with a 10-1 record, tho ono loss coming against Duke. The Irish have won at least !'our singles matches for the 19th limo in 24 dual matches and boast a 97 -40 dual singl(!S record. 
On Friday, Notrn Damp won six singles matclws ' in straight sets and swept doubles on their way t.o a 9-0 win over the BYU Cougars. 
Winners in singles for the Irish wme Green. Zalinski, Uasso, Varnum, Hall and Velasco. 
BYU's Brooke Leavens rallied from 0-5 in the second set and saved two match points in thn tiobreaker before Irish senior Velasco held on for a 6-4, 7-6 (7-5) win at No. 3 singles to complete the singles sweep for Notre Dame, marking the eighth time in 23 matchos this year the Irish have won all six singles matches. 
In doubles, the teams of Varnum/Velasco, Dasso/1 lall and Green/Zalinski were victorious to complete the 9-0 sweep for the Irish, the third shut out in four matches for Notre Dame. 

.....-. 
.... 
Des Moines Catholic Worker House Detroit LA SED -Hispanic Comm. Cntr -car Ft. Wayne Boys & Girls Club (car) -local Idaho La Posada -migrant workers (spanish) 
Indianapolis variety 
The language ofBrazil, Laiin Americas largest and most populous country, a land ofrich literature, fascinating music, natural beauty and international business opportunities 
Learn fast: Intensive course Fulfill the language requirement in 2 semesters 
Contact: Department of Romance Languages 

L-----~::,___________ 
--======--=---'-..::....:.:...:..::--=----------;:_::.==:.----___.:_==~~~~~~ 
I · h f. t b J ff F I k . The Observerluelf Hsu 
ns 1rs  asema~  e  e er dou bled and drove 111 a run  in the bottom of the fifth inning of game one  
Saturday versus Pittsburgh.  
"Wr,'d been getting curves  winning  home  run  in  the  Irish, lifting his record  to 3-1  
and  sliders  all  weekend,"  eighth inning. Still,  Porzel  on  the season,-while Vickroy  
Porzel said. "1  was just sitting  would have rather finished the  took tho loss for the Panthers.  
thr-rn waiting for that. and he  series on the field instead of in  With the sweep, the Irish  
lefr one right over the middle  the batter's box.  improve to  25-8  on  the year  
of the plate."  "As good as I feel now," he  and 12-1 in the Big East, while  
It wasn't the only time this  said. ''I'd much rather win it in  the Pant.hers drop to 7-5 in the  
season Porzel stepped up in  the top of the inning by shut­ conference, good enough for  
late in a  game. Last weekend  ting them down."  third place in the standings,  
against Detroit, he hit a game- Duff earned the win for the  and 18-14 overall.  

No Summer Plans?? 
Summer Service Projects 
A VAJLABLE 
(ND students only) 
• 
Service-Learning opportunity • $1,700 Scholarship/3 credits 

• 
8 Weeks volunteer work with a disadvantaged population 


In Cities of ND Alumni Clubs 
Applications available: Center for Social Concerns 
Projects available: 
Allentown, PA Catholic Social Services -variety Cleveland local student Denver kids program -local 
Joliet Medical -female Kalamazoo migrant workers -( spanish) Kentucky males -2 different spots Los Angeles Shelter for men-male Marion, IN Abuse programs Michigan City,IN camp for devel. disabled adults Goshen, IN Boys & Girls Club Rockford, IL medical, car Savannah, GA Home for children (21 yr. old male) Washington, DC and more 
CENTE~~ 

Stop in for more information or call: s o c~AL Sue Cunningham 1-7867 or Erika Fuehrmeyer 4-1498 CONCERNS
..;...._~--------=;::::::=­
page J8 
Baseball 
continued from page 24 
wlwn sophomore Ben Cookt1 hit a two-out single past the Panther second baseman, stole second and scornd off a single by third baseman Jeff Pcrconte. 
The Panthers got on the board in the fif'th inning after leftfielder Chris Delsignore tripled to start off the inning and scored on a sacrifice bunt by fellow outfielder Stuart Rykaceski. 
In the bottom or the inning. however. tlw Irish scornd two more runs of'l' of' doubles bv designated hitter Jeff Wagnc~ and first baseman Jeff Felker. Those runs proved to be all the Irish would need. as Heilman kept the Panthers' bats stagnant for the victory. 
Heilman pitched his fifth complete game of the season and improved his record to 7­1 on the season. In the process, he lowered his career ERA to 2. 03, weII below the Irish record of 2.36 set by Nick Palinhich from 1959-61. John Schultz took the loss for the Panthers, dropping his record to 2-4. 
'IHATE TO SOUND LIKE A BROKEN RECORD, BUT 
WHENEVER ONE OF OUR PLAYERS GETS lNJURED FOR 
US, SOMEONE'S ABLE TO 

STEP UP.' 
PAUL MAIN/ER! 
BASEBAU HEAD COACH 
In the nightcap, the Irish took the first lead of the game in the sixth behind a double by Perconte down the left field line, a bunt single down the middle by Stanley and a dou­ble-play ball by O'Toole. In the eighth, the team added an insurance run off a sacrifice fly by Stanley that scored Cooke. 
The Panthers' bats were 
silent until the top of the ninth 
inning, when senior first base­
man Steve Dickinson hit a 
two-run homer to tie the 
game. In the bottom of the 
inning, however, .Ust got on 
base quickly after a full-count 
walk before advancing to sec­
ond off a Wagner groundbalL 
A hit by Felker to the short­
s top advanced Ust to third 
before a two-out hit by Matt 
Strickroth brought the run 
home to win the game, 3-2. 
It was another balanced 
offensive performance for the 
Irish, with seven starters col­
lecting hits in the nightcap, 
he aded by Felker' s 3-for-3 performance with an RBI and a .double . 'Tm still proud of our team," Mainieri said. "because it's one thing to lose a lead in the ninth. but ifs another thing to give them tlrn lead in that inning." Right-hander John Corbin got the win for the Irish, improving his record to 4-1 on the season. Co1·bin's success came on the shoulders of righthander Alex Shilliday, who allowed three hits over six innings while striking out six. Freshman Drew Duff pro­vided the interim support in the seventh, striking out two of the three batters faced. The series ended Sunday with a noontime match-up between pitchers Tim Kalila and Josh Knauff. As in their last game. it took another comeback by Irish batters to win the game and sweep the series, 9-8. After struggling at the start by giving up four runs over the first three innings, Kalita was able to settle down and give a solid seven-inning perfor­mance,. striking out seven while allowing only three walks and five earned runs. On the offensive r.nd, O'Too.le recorded solo home runs in the first and third innings to close the score to 3­
2. In the fourth inning, Ben Cooke scored to tie the game after reaching base on a field­er's choice, advancing on a line drive to left field and a double-steal with Porzel, and scoring on a grounder by Perconte to the second base­man. 
A four-run fifth inning by the Irish broke the game wide open, marked by pop fly by Ust that scored O'Toole, a run by Porzel off a wild pitch, and a two run homer bv Strickroth. The left fielder took first base for the afternoon as a substi­tute for Felker, who was out for the gamr-dur-to a wrist injury on Saturday. 
"I hate to sound like a bro­ken record," Mainieri said. "but whenever one of our players gets injured for us. someone's able to step up. Take Strickroth, for example. lie got two base hits and a home ruu, and that turned out to be one of the deciding fac­tors for us." 
After scoring two runs in the seventh, the Panthers used one more rally in the top of the ninth, tying the game on a two-run single by Dickinson. After a quick pitching change, however, Duff retired the side on a quick strikeout. 
On the first pitch of the bot­tom of the inning Alec Porzel wasted no time_ by hitting the game-winning home run deep into leftlield. 


r-------------------------------·-------~--------------­
Monday, April 12, I 999 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Page 19 
+ Campus Ministry This Week+ 








OFFICE OF CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 l-le1iburi;h Lihr.u-y 
631-7800 ll2 Badin H;ill 
63J.5242 B,1si Iic,1 Offices 
631-8463 Web l',1gl': 
http'./ /www.nd.edu./-minisfry/ 
Monday, April 12, 7:30 p.m., Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Sacrament of Confirmation 
Join us in the celebration of the Sacrament of Confirmation where 57 members of the 
Notre Dame community will complete their full initiation into the Catholic Church. 
Bishop John D'Arey presiding. 
Candidates: 

Kelly Andrews Kevin Haley Jaclyn Rey-Hipolito Robin Bolz Martin Herrera Dane Rodriquez Derrick Bravo Kate Jett Christina Rorick Casey Burns Jason Jordan Sean Ryker Joseph Collins Jason Keith Neal Salisian II Laura Della Maria Ryan Kuchler Francisco Santoni Meghan Devine Jason Leung Joseph Sawyer Meghan Doyle Martha Mata Stephen Schacht Antonio Duarte Shane McGonegle Marissa Sims Brendan Egan Shay McLean Christopher Sinnott Kathleen Fanning Brent Moberg Thomas Studebaker Dorell Garcia Julia Monczunski Margaret Stutz Melissa Garcia Joseph Napolitano Timothy Sullivan Melissa Garrido Christopher O'Malley Megan Sweeney Colleen Gaughen Katherine Ortega Katherine Torrence Ryan Gaul Joseph Peace IV Albert Vitter IV Andrea Gonzalez Christine Pohlman Kelly Williams ­Christopher Gonzalez Gita Pullapilly Katie Bubush-Holy Cross College Caroline Grady Jessica Purcell Robynn Kozak-Holy Cross College 
Keeping the Faith 

A Conversation about faith and pop culture 
Tuesday, April 13, 7 p.m.-9 p.m., LaFortune Ballroom Tom Beaudoin, author of "Virtual Faith" speaks about young adult spirituality and its .u. relationship to movies, music and pop culture. 
Wednesday, April 14, 7 p.m., LaFortune Ballroo~ David Wilcox in concert. Singer, songwriter, folk-rock artist and storyteller. Opening acts: Justin Dunn and Danielle Skorich. 
Reaching Out to the Kosovar Refugees 
Donations will be collected at Campus Ministry: 103 Hesburgh Library 112 Badin Hall and at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart on Sunday, April 18. 
,, 


----------·­

page 20 The Observer• SPORTS Monday, April 12, 1999 
¦ MEN'S LACROSSE 
Irish blow big lead, drop Big East matchup to Hoyas 
By MIKE CONNOLLY As.\oci,m Spom Editor 
Tlw mmi 's lacrosse team saw its four-gual, first-quarter load ernporatP under the pressure of a strung Georgetown at.tack and the anguish of mental errors as Notre Dame fell 12-8. 
The Hoyas improved tu 6-2 on th<' vear whi!,i the Irish lflst their" second straight to fall to 5­4. 
··wn learnud what it takes to make plays at a high level," head coach Kevin Corrigan said. ''The combination of mental errors and not finishing the opportunities we had is the dif­forence between winning and losing. There isn't much room for mental Prrors at this high of a level." 
... 
For 14 minutes. 41 seconds, the Irish played flawless lacrosse. Controlling the ball on the offensive zone and forcing Georgetown turnovers at mid­liel<l, the Irish jumped out to an early four-goal lead. 
Anytime lhat the Hoyas did manage to get a shot off in the first quarter, Irish goalie Kirk Howell slopped them cold. llowell madp, 17 saves on the day while allowing only 11. 
'IFWE CAN PLAY SMART DEFENSE AND LIMIT THE 
OTHER TEAM IN THE KIND 
OF SHOTS THEY GET, THEN 
WE ARE GOING TO BE FlNE.' 

-KEVIN CORRIGAN 
MEN'S LACROSSE COACH 

"Kirk is an outstanding goalie," Corrigan said. "If we can play smart defense and limit the other team in the kind of shots they get, then we are going to be fine because Kirk is going to make plays. He is going to make the plays he should make and he is going to make some great saves too." · 
Brad Owen opened the Irish scoring with a goal just 58 sec­onds into the game. The senior midfielder blew past his defend­er on the left side of the goal beat Hoya goalie Brian Hole to the far post. 
The Irish lit the scoreboard again with eight minutes to go in the first quarter. Tom Glatzel took a Todd Ulrich pass and found the back of the net for his 18th goal on the year. 
The Irish struck again when Stedman Oakley flipped a loose ball past Hole to give the Irish a 3-0 lead. 
Glatz.el scored for the second time with 2:16 to go in the sec­ond quarter. His goal would represent the high water mark for the Irish as Georgetown began its comeback. 
The first mental error of the 
j_ ~ 
day came with 19 seconds left in 
the first quarter. Irish goalie 
Kirk Howel.l came out of the 
crease to assist i11 bringing Lhe 
ball up th1~ field. Howell 
attempted to pass the ball over 
top of' a Georgetown's Keith 
Baker. but BakP.r intercepted 
the pass and took advantage of 
the empty net. putting the 
I loyas on the board for the first 
time. 
George town dominated the 
second quartt>r as thf' 1-Ioyas 
reeled off three more unan­
swered goals to go into halftime 
tied. 
"We keµt them from having 
tht' ball in the first quarter," 
Corrigan said. "They didn't have 
the ball enough to get many 
scoring opportunities. In the 
second quarter it was exactly 
the opposite. We didn't have 
poss('ssion enough so we came 
out even at halftime." 
The Irish got the first goal of 
the second half to regain the 
lead. David Ulrich came from 
behind Hole and wrapped the 
ball past his right side for a 
goal. 
The Irish lead woul.d be short­
lived, however. Scott Urick com­
bin cd with first team all­
American Greg McCavera just 
10 seconds late,· to tie the game. 
Crick and McCavera teamed up 
again two minutes later to give 
the 1-loyas a 6-5 lead. 
One minute later, the Hoyas struck for their third-straight unanswered goal. Greg · Hubschmann beat Howell on a 
high, hard shot. 
Steve Bishko and the man-up 
unit stopped the bleeding for the 
Irish with 6:28 left. Bishko got 
an assist from senior Ned 
Webster on the goal. 
Webster joined with senior 
captain Chris Dusseau to tie the 
game with less than five min­
utes remaining in the third 
quarter. The goal marked 
Dusseau's 100th of his Notre 
Dame career. 
The Hoyas pulled away with 
three more goals while holding 
the Irish scoreless for close to 
17 minutes. The Hoyas defen­
sive strategy stopped the Irish 
from executing the way they 
need to, according to Corrigan. 
"They played us in a way 
where one guy has to step up at 
a time," he said. "They shut 
people off around the ball. We 
are a team that has to get ball 
movement on offense. They took 
that away from us and said 
'Beat us man-to-man.' They 
took us out of the·rhythm of our 
offense and we didn't recover in 
time to make plays." 
John Flandina ended the 
offensive drought for the Irish 
when he scored with 3:17 
remaining in the game. Bishko 
picked up his fifth assist of the 
year on the goal. 
Georgetown got two late goals 
to finish the game leading 12-8. 
While the Irish offense was 
not quite up the challenge of 
College Box Office at 
284-4626. 

eighth-ranked Georgetown. the have twico scored 22 goals in a country!." he said. "But we still defense held yet another high single game. Corrigan. however. make too many mfmtal errors. rr powered attack below t!rnir st.ill sees room for ddrrnsivn we play mentally as hard as we 
yearly average. improvement.. play physically, then wn will b11 The Hoyas came in averaging "We have the potnntial Ito be one of the better dcfons,~s in the close to 18 goals per game and one of the best defenses in the country." 
SUMMER JOBS IN 

Irish representative will be at: 
ST.MARY'S 
14th April 10:00 am-2:00 pm Le Mans Hall 
NOTRE DAME: 
15th Apr~l 10:00 am-2:00 pm La Fortune Center (Elevator lobby) 
CALL: 1-800-833-3287 WEB~lTE: www.globalstaff.com 
Accommodation provided 
Call us or apply through the web right away! 
Burks Oakley II 
Associate Vice President for Academic Affairs University of Illinois 
presentation 
"Net Learning: The Impact of the Internet on Higher Education" 
Tuesday, April I 3 
4:00 pm CoBA 159 


all are welcome! 
Please RSVP to Sarah at 631-32 77 

Lecture sponsored by the Office of the Provost.
STJREET Mgfjjt&)

... 
the College of Business, and the Kaneb Center for Teaching and Learning 
.. .. l 
'lo~THEARTS4' • ~Nofrl' Dami', IN 

,--------------------------------------------------•-------­
Monday, April 12, 1999 The Observer. SPORTS page 21 
¦ BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Round of 512 begins with coconut bras, baskets 
.... 


By KERRY SMITH Spores Writer 

Despite the cold weather and gray skies, the Stnpan basket­bal I courts were host to a Hawaiian luau Sunday after­noon during Bookstore Basketball's round of 512. 
In one or the day's most entertaining games, Aloha .\1eans ... "We Suck" came pre­pared for its match-up with Hisky Business, bringing a grill, a chef and wild outfits. 
Decked out in grass skirts, Hawaiian shirts and coconut bras, the toam of Holt Zeidler, Hub Mallory. Steve "Coco" Torchen, Mike Perrone and Lance LeClern looked confident before the start ol' the game. They went through organized rebounding and shooting drills, while laking time out for sevcr­a l photo opportunities with fans. 
Hisky Business, with team members Kevin Calcagno, John Curry, John Gorsica, Tim Hiely and Geoff Kammerer, got down to business as soon as the game began, quickly putting Aloha Means ... "We Suck" on the defensive. The inside shooting and no-look passes by Hisky Business were too much for the challengers to handle, as Risky Business advanced to the sec­ond round 21-9. 
"Our extra size helped us," said Calcagano. "We were able to crash the boards and get a lot of rebounds." 
John Corsica Jed Risky Business on the offensive with eight baskets and Kammerer pulled down a team high 10 rebounds. 
Aloha Means ... "We Suck" was disappointed with the out­come of tho game and blamed the loss on the slow cooking of' its personal chef Kevin Weinisch. 
"We had nothing to eat at halftime," said Mallory. "If our chef had the food ready, then we definitely would have won." 
Weinisch did manage to get the grill going and tho shish­kabob cooking before tho end of the gami, so the team could enjoy a post-game snack. 
LeClere thought the non-tra­ditional basketball attire had something to do with the disap­pointing final score. 
"It was fun, but our coconut bras kept getting in the way," he said. 
Zeidler, who scored a team­high five points agreed, adding that they "felt a little exposed wearing grass skirts." 
In one of the final games played Sunday, Mushroom on a Stick put forward a solid per­formance against Women Scorned. The teams matched up evenly in the beginning, breaking with Mushroom on a Stick out ahead 11-8 at the half. 
The second half told a differ­ent story, as Mushroom on a Stick quickly increased its lead, holding Women Scorned, led by captain Charlie Hoth, to only two points. 
"We're a second-half team," said Mushroom on a Stick point guard Timmy O'Neill. "We played with a lot of heart." 
The quick passes and domi­nance in the paint gave Mushroom on a Stick a big edge and the 21-10 win. 
Matt Murphy led the team. lighting up tlrn court with 11 baskets. 
"We have really solid players and we ran the court well," said Murphy. "We had some good transitions, but we need to work on our outside shooting." 
Roommates O'Neill and Murphy said their friendship off the court had a lot to do with their teamwork on the court. 
"I know what Murph's going to do before Im does," said O'Neill. "When he zigs, I zag. It's like poetry in motion." 
In other tournament action Sunday, T.iam 15. led by cap­tain Jordan Haniszeski, squared-off against Shiny Happy Naked People. Team 15 controlled the game from the outset and quickly disposed of its opponent 21-4. 
Along with Haniszcski, team members Errol Hice, .Jon Heither. Andy Marshall and Andy McBride combined tough defense with strong insidn play for the win. 
"We were just trying to play a solid game," said Haniszeski. Looking ahead to the team's next game. he added, "Hopefully we'll be able to test ourselves ffi(Jre in later rounds, face some tough competition and win by playing well." 
Haniszeski led Team l 5 offen­sively with 12 buckets and tal­lied live defensive rebounds. 
Several of the top-32 teams took to the court over the week­end, easily disposing of their challengers. In a field of hun­dreds of teams, there may be a few cinderella teams waiting for their chance at an upset and a run for the linals. 
Bookstore Basketball XXVIII Results-to-date 
Friday: Preliminary Rour,d 
-1 .101...·h.s ,~ u 1•ollc.u.:h. dL•f"cut.-.. C:i'-.!"l Sllo1·ty (2 I "\) 
li..•01u K.\ 4.h._•l"c..•ats 1--"J.ut ( ·1-...:~,~-d 't'..tp l>u111..:in~ 
(::?I 17> NI) Autluu-fty dL•l\.•.;if_..., I lot 1>,,,nn! (21 I()) J )111111.uli:o-.luts t.fL•fc-nt,-. lf you "-.'n1,·1 h~at us t'>ll tlH..· e,,ua·t .. ( 2. I -5) 
l'ht.· Uiµ ·1·'-·11 SIHHlld'vL· ... «.h..·t·.._!.i.llS Points in tin· ·n.dnt (2 I I 'l) 
·1·1,'-.. lii,11u11·h.s ... 1...-r....•u1 ... ·1·11t..• ·1·11unt..l....·1·i11g. 
'l'111d c 22-2.0) 1·1u...• < h,ot t.1..._•fL•uts "l\..•a111 SSM (21-2) ll1·othe1· c.~ Si!'oott.."1· Nt.!"'-'S Tcu111 dL•fL•.uts Pi11h.1.11 iun ( 2 I I~) Nu St...ill,.. Ill dL•f1..·uts lhL" ChuH.:-:o,-.h <loddesscs 
(21 14) SI ·1-l. 4 ,lt.•1"-..•.11l!'oo < )114..• Ni~hl W,-.1H.h.•1·s (2. I· 1 .li) s,111111 ',,.-V,n)dl111u.l c--.-L·u1tu·c-s dcl·euls I .-1u111k•t1L"C' .uc ii~ ~n:1.,tL·st ( 1·1..u·1·i.:-il) ••..._......._.,n.11-..· ..\'.£ Slu>nl 1.lcrcats <.__>ucc..·11 & C--n....?"1 (.."!I ~ > , .. N.< '( >M '-"-•f·...:ut., t_-..•l"f-<)vcTs (l'orl'eit) l"'lt..•.1~1,..• t hu1·t .. -t..1.._,•t"'--·•1l!>-. ••i111!!_ CJ.a11~ (21-....i) l'1·u'--•I~'-.' & lhc Blov,,.1n~-d, d.._,•f4..•.uls rl'he Playh41y IVJ.n1,si(-.u (:21 t7) 
l'lh.: 1.-1 .... 11 <·,,rs...· ,,L.. 1--,._·,,1~ ·n...-g_,1t1·s l~11si11L"Ss ( ..! I I :? > Nu I .1111i1 SoldiL•r·s t.h..·•·.._,•at!-.. No1hin~ )Jul Nlo..""t ( 2 I--'>> 
Sut.·t....14..•st llu11L·h of Su...·ks .. t.1L~1·cats ·1·4,.,•e11 VV,1IVL~S (.:? I --h) I .t.•vi1t...·11, I H:22. det·L•u1.-.. S111t1l,..cy c..."-.!L 111&..,• Bu1uli1.-..(2.J-7) 
l'lu..• l "hict....1...·11~ d1,..•feu1s 1>011'1 Ast... <_>ucstions 
<.2 I IO> 
Satc.1rday & SL1nd,c3y: .51:Z Rc,ur,d 
~7 cl(·l·i.•ilt~ lf1X t:2-1 -')) !\.1t.H11·11ill).1.'-'-'0ttd di... 1·.._,.._tt..., NL·n-Slo-iL"!-. (21 8) 1V1,t1tL.. yhull--.. ,1... rva1s An...·hy's luyi11· li1·i&..·k:--. 
{ 2. I '->) ~~IH "-"1u_p.. •,tit..·!'oo dt.·t...-._.l!>oo 578 1.-il"ty-l.'o ( 22-20> l>-,11'1 l•'t.•., .. I l-4ud. 1-,:v4..•1·yhody <·uu•t Wi11 .. h.•1"..._.. u1.-.. I <.h>t 11'-·t.•I .. .._••. h. ...·y lo 1·'.at (2.1-3) k:..11111,h...11, ...-Sc..111111t.•lh l.lt.·1·1...·01t.-.. .lt.>111111.Y •• , ...... ,,, I >1·1111h.'-•1· ·1·11i111 11,.... l...:.1,..•1111L•t.ly·s (_"?. I -I '-J) l<'-"l-!lllu1 Si,,v. S111ull VV.ink. dv1·.... u1~ 'I'll._• l•lt•vt1 u: .o...;.11:1µ; C ~ I I (1) lf.uJJ...-: l Jp d1... f1.•a1, Kandis and 1hc..• '11,·1·1,.11,1.,__•,-~ (.:?2.-2()) Wl•h'-•1· .--.;1u11..• dvl'--·•11 ... '-> I .cp,s 011d u Su1111p 
(.:? I l)) 
•·.111i, ..... 1)t I )c.J111ai11 d ........... !'-,, I ....·vitit..~IIS 
I K: 2.2/S111,-.J... ...•y ..~ rl11,..• l-l~,11,lits C2 I -I 7) ~ ( i11yi-. WIH.1 ~,1·1...•u all "'"11(1-lll r'\.'1rs. ( h·tc..-gu ,il... fL'llt!". 11u,·~illl--!-<.ik·l"lnl., <21 ---1-) 1 1..• M1.,y4.•11 A~L~ ..r....-r...•-111., c,n..·i-~ l_nv1,..•l'O, St.llll Po... :i-.-...• (..!'I -I> 
_.c; l !'."'.c..·d t ·,,.ni..·nh11u.::--. d ..·!"L.·ul."' A l>•n..v1-! and th1,• P1 t.·h.'lhh.·1·~ ( 2 I 17 > 111·,,k'-· A:i-...., < "11111h.,1...-a-s ,k·f't.·i,ts 'l'AN(; 
l 2 I I 0) Ci l'vl,ul,·l!>oo 111 ...J?.-.. ( .21-7) 
Seven rvtinutc Ahs c..l~l"c:uts P"VV Stuff: "'1on'lcn who will keep you r·1·01n sc..:::oring ( 21 -5) 
Walking lncbdntion dcf'"e.;.1tN wc·11 Shoot 011 You ... (26-24) l~is&....y Uu!'<iin~ss det"c..!tlls Aluh.u (21-9) Soup Nn;;:.i!--<..14...!h.~uts l':.x.plon.1tinns in Mu:-.onry (2 1-I I) I lung .Ju,-y dch:.uts Oce:hic's Boy.s Te.u,n 
(25-23) 1',/1.ushr<.>nn-. on a Stick dc1"c.t1ts Won,cn SL:<..n"n-.!c.:.1(21-10) 
Uull Ticklers dl..!l"c-.ai.s Gurfi!.!lc..l u11c..l 1---'.-ictH..ls (22-20) Plu111s & Tt.:!.ahugs dcfcuts C"l"i:,-.co_ L._11hc1· &. U<><>l (21-8) 1--look il l.Jp Ucl"cuts 1·101 Cads (2 1-3) Son-.cboc..ly"s Morn <.IL-:i"cu.ts A H<.-">Ok..::r & 4­Pin"lps(21 -I 7) ~,·ean"l 20.~ def'cuts 3.5 Gran,s (21-9) Spud Wehh. Boh 1::>ole. '"""'?.c. .3 oth~r CJuys vvho hi..1vc trouble scoring <21-1 I) t:>-cl1tc1·(>non1y 23: I def··eati-; T'l,,,IV'-> 11,ick. ·1·wu ,-hin. and <~nc W.-inkJe (21 -,C-.) Chucke·n.; dcl--~uts Give n1c-an eye (forfcil) ~..--1..~n1n 15 dc:Ccnts Shiny 1--fappy Nuk~d People (21-4-) <>pc.ions vv/o u future dct·cats Fill"s CHrls (21 -12) Pc-nctn.llion dc-fculs Courtdocto1·s (21-1 H) Wutt...:h lhL· 1-1(-,oJ... del·l.!".uts l~aging J\..,'1,ilk Muid (:21-6) <..Src-a..t White •-lope dcfcut·s l-;1,hil und the ,....·,n11· Skins (21 -4) ·1·11c Chosen defeats ~n.:.;.un .::\91 (21-2) So Anyv,.;uy. t · 1..-1 ut the: Bunk dcl'"cut:-; Maybe Nk:k Cun Score (21-19) I .oos.y C:iu~c c.Jcfc.nts Vo,u .. rc Tc1..-ihlc. Muriel! (21-8} I >n.,p .a l">"-.•t1c..:'-.• <.h..:fculs .S:elrnu 1-fey~J... ,-...-.c. 
n1L·n--.bc-rs .nnd a Ltp da11 ....·cr (21-7) ..-t--''->L""ks u11c..l u p.._..,l(a...:k del"t.!als Unl~ushc,d Mu1H.llCCS (21 17) 
'l"hc-c--oalilinll c.h.?fL•als h's nol as 111uch l'un ifVvc: don't 4..·,nnt: (21-10) 1-'n..:c l.~ulli11 IL dL•f'c-.us Swedish M ...•uthulls (:? I -14) .Ji111111y c·hi1wo-..H.l·s dL•fcals L..1s Ci.-ing..,s (::? I -I·"') l.'lut Cl1L·stL•d •1·,;.ip I >-.11~t...-ing l.'r-cuks det·c.~at.-.. <i-...•11c.-:.1lio11s ~ ·1·1tc .. l\..•u111 <2 I-(-,) rvlorally C".1.1slH1I Atlitl1t..ll.! dct·cuts l~vil 
Pcl&illl,!: Znn (21 -16) .li111111y·s Chi1...."I....L·11 Sh;.1L.. 1..;_ dL--l"cuts J1..>h11ny SL·1tvc11ger and lhc ... (21-19) <>u1· SIH-,l'l Gi,·I Wants 13.-et/C.. n.ackers defeats I'd l~utht...·1· hi.: Shopping (1"<.-,.-t·ci1) White C"hocolutc un<.I 4 C.>thL·rs defcnts Stay-PutTcd (. ro1·1·'-.::i1) ·r·h....-y ,.,'->r·1·c1it..•d dc1·'--~u1s Monc..•y (l\u-rcit) I Swear. <)1'ficL'I". Sl1...: L<.">Oh.c-d 1...:.._">u1·te-cn dcft..·nts ~n..:::-un1 c,...":\ (21-l :"-j,) ·1·L·x..as I lig.h Schc.·H--,1 ,.-,u--.1hall ... dcf"L•uts lla~lcll (21-7) II Vvould He C"ool ·tt, Ch:t Shol l3y An /\.1..-ovv dcJ"L·.,.1ts .h.h.! I·•:. ·1·u1·s I l..1i,--y Nipples <21 I.:!) ·1·11.._,· S'-""L~dish l~ik.i11i 'l"ca1n dL·l·eHt:-.. 1-iuhunl-.. ! 
l\c.,1-.lllll-...! IJ1..lhl111&,.._! (21-7) 

Pull 1--lui.-. Groin StutTdcTc.uts Shuv.111 Kcn-.p·s lllcgitin,aLe Children (21-14) 
Tcan"l 424 defculs Fulhcr ..John t:>•s (2 1-4-) l.:logs iu th~ Buthtuh def·entK-Vundcluy 
Industries (21-.5) S4uirrel Nuts dcfi.:nts ~Ibo Short'?....Like u. Pox (23-21) A1-.-1u:Ling Gruce .und Chuck dc:l~cnts Sc1·vin No Ulun·,ey (21-10) Tho Blsn-,urks def'"ents 1--"itz Con1H.~Cti.011 (21-10) l~nugh R.idcr-s c.Jci"cuts Cu1·Jcnnc f--.'u1nily (21-12) 
The Misfits dct·culs L--J.ob Chupski & . 
(2 I -3) Second l~ound 01· Busl c..lc:t·cuts Yol1.tu1dsornc's 1-1.tu·cn--. (2 I -8) Duisy·s l">ukc.:!'s deCcuts Sn--,all Woodlutu..l Cr~atun:s (f..orl·~cit) 
NC"> Authority dcfe.uts Stroke nnU l'"lrihblc..~ (2 I -I 8) Froclk~ und the Blownsh <.le1"cuts f...'Jugr.an1 Bludgeoners (21-3) 11· Only 'l'hcy Gave Points fur· l.fcurl dct'c..~uts We Don·r Let Anybody Shoot (21-8) 
Whistler B.inky's dcl·cuts Tc.1.11n 41 ~ (21-5) Four Guys Who Pluy v,.;ith u l'ooch c.Jc-t·euts No Ka•oi (21-1) l~anny and the-r:,utclcss Wondcr,-./4 l"'.>ru11ks Who lh.?l.._--d u r--•ihh dcf·c.uts ,·he Wok. (2 I-· I 0) Suck II! dcr4;:uts Looks Liken Pu111p.. .I 7-1---.c: Worst Tc:.an'l Ever (2 I -H) 
5 Ii t 


XXV I I I 
The Tradition Continues... 
The Obse,-ver/Scott Hardy 
~ 
-
"' ­


-
Arthur Andersen is proud to announce the following University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College students have accepted employment offers to 
Kathryn Abeln, Kansas City Kate O'Scannlain, Chicago
join us after graduation. 
David Allen, New York Christopher Owens, Chicago Michael Bachrodt, Chicago Carolyn Parnell, Chicago Michael Bailly, Seatlle James Farrell, Chicago Shannon Kelly, Chicago Maureen Phelan, Washington, DC Carolyn Bargas, Chicago Michael Feczko, Chicago Kevin Kileen, Chicago Philip Pidot, New York James Bergin, Chicago Brad Fitzgerald, Los Angeles Michelle Kippes, Chicago Jennifer Pines, Chicago Karin Boergers, Chicago Zachary Gamblin, Chicago Michael Knecht, Los Angeles Jason Plourde, Chicago Thomas Borchers, Chicago Marci Gaus, Pittsburgh Patrick Kovalik, Chicago Jonathan Polking, Chicago Emily Borlik, Chicago Brian George, Charlotte Amy Krayer, Chicago Gregory Regan, Chicago Stephanie Bormes, Chicago Heidi Gorman, Chicago Maribeth Krzywicki, Chicago Kimberly Robertson, Philadelphia Gordon Braun, Chicago Douglas Hafemann II, Chicago Brian Lacomb, Chicago Justin Roth, Minneapolis Lynn Buhl, Chicago Mary Harris, Nashville Paul Lee, Chicago Megan Samson, Chicago Sara Burke, New York .Kiera.n. HennesseY, Chicago Mru·k Loftus, New York Patrick Schlehuber, Chicago Casey Burns, Washington, DC Margaret-Mary Hogerty, Chicago Cara Lorch, Chicago Frederick Schrick, St. Louis Sean Cantwell, Chicago Shon Holyfield, Atlanta Kathryn Lupo, Detroit Michael Scott, Chicago Kyle Carlin, Chicago Andrew Horner, Chicago Tara McGrail, San Francisco Melissa Sirianni, PiUsburgh Dermis Carroll, Chicago Nicole Hudson, Chicago Christina McNutt, Chicago Elizabeth Smith, New York Brian Clarke, Washington, DC Jennifer Hyduk, Minneapolis Kip Moen, Minneapolis Steven Smyth, Stamford Allison Cormican, Chicago Matthew Jacques, Boston Philip Murphy, Chicago Scott Springman, Chicago Ramon Cross, New York Richard Janor, Chicago Todd Muscato, Chicago Mollie Titler, Chicago Jennifer Davis, Chicago Aran January, Chicago Christian Naus, New York Matthew Trosper, Chicago Natalie Dietsch, Chicago John Joyce, Chicago Hilary Nindorl, Washington, DC William Warden, Washington, DC James Dombrowski, Chicago Chad Kalmes, Chicago Stacy O'Brien, Atlanta Shawn Woessner, Minneapolis Kathleen Donnelly, Chicago Charles Kavanaugh, New Jersey Charles O'Neill, New York Timothy Wolfe, Boston Meghan Doyle, Chicago Wesley Wozniak, AATS Alissa Dutmers, Chicago MichaelYenchek,Pittsburgh Erin Emmons, Chicago ARTHUR Lisa Zacharias, Chicago Michael Empey, Washington DC Michael Zavertnik, Philadelphia
ANDERSEN 
The Observer· SPORTS 
Football
-
continued from page 24 
numbrr one position on the depth rhart. 
Tony fisher started the game with the iirst team offense, but Tony Driver subbed for him after three plays. Both tailbacks looked strong all day with Fisher scamper­ing for a 20-yard run against the lirst team defense on the fourth series and Driver consistently running north-south up the field between the tackles. 
The third back in the lineup probably will be Terrance Howard, who originally came to Notre Uame as a safely. lloward saw some action with the second team offense and did not disappoint., with a rouple of nice gains. 
The quarterbacks had trouble throwing thr ball in the scrimmage. 
However, Jarious Jackson, Arnaz Battle and Eric Chapell ran the option well all day, with Battle running a keeper on the option for a long touchdown against the lirsl team defense. Jackson had a 50-yard complotion to Jooy Cethernll, otherwise he struggled with tlrn passing game, over­throwing receivers and having a few balls clroppPd by his widoouts. 
"He struggled. lt"s a combination of things. !',umber one, it was extremely windy, and number two, there wore some differenet breakdowns." said Davie of his starting quarterback. "He'd be the first to tell you that he wasn't near as accurate or as sharp as he should be." 
Many other positions made noteworthy contributions during the scrimmage. The young offensive line is starting to come into shape. 
.Jordan Black (left tackle), Jim .Jones (left guard), Mike Gandy (right guard) and John Teasdale (right tackle) have been starting alongside center John Merandi, the lone returning starter from the unit. 
The fullback position seems to be loaded with Joey Goodspeed and Tom Lopienski seeing the bulk of the work with the first team. 
Highly regarded sophomore Mike McNair saw limited action in Saturday's scrim­mage. Davie was excited about his top two fullbacks: 'Tm impressed with our full­backs. Joey Goodspeed has really had a good spring and l think some of that bas to 
The Obseiver/Jeff Hsu 
Sophomore Tony Driver, competing with two others for the running back position, replaced Tony Fisher in the lineup after just three plays Saturday. 

Monday, April 12, 1999 
d? with -.~·ommy Lopienski hreathing down his rn)ck. 
On tho injury front, rcceivor Jay .Johnson fractured his right thumb in practice on Friday and l'ullback Jasun Murray is out with a rih injury. CornPrback Donald Dykes has been out all spring with a sprained ankle but will return to practice this week. 
.Junior cornerback !frock Williams. sus­pended for breaking an unspecified tnam rule, may cumc back this week, according to Davie. 
"He's got a couple of criteria he's gnt to reach for me but he's coming clos1!," he said. 
Sophomore Shann Walton, the leading scorer on the men's soccer team in the fall, has been prar.ticing with the team as a backup cornerback. lie also has been returning punts, along with Baki N1dson, Javin Hunter and .Joey Gntlwrall. 
Davin is unsure ii' they have a starter at that position as of yet, basml on tlrn inoxpe­rir,nco and also tho fact that thny havnn 't IJP-e11 tested because of the lack of an aPrial attack thus far. 
Deveron llarpcr and Leo Lafayette start­ed in thP scrimmage with Walton, Clifford .Jefferson and Hon Israel as the key back­ups. With the return of Dykes and Williams and incoming freshman Cerome Sapp, Albert J>orne and Jason Beckstrom, there will be heavy competition once the fall rolls around. 
First team linebackers Bonnie Nicks, Anthony Denman and Hocky Boiman have all been impressive in the spring drills. Nicks, a senior who has battled nagging injuries throughout his career, has had two huge hits, one on Wednesday against Haki Nelson and again on Friday against Driver. 
Denman, a junior and a backup for Jimmy Friday the past two years. has taken a leadership role on the defonse, according to Davie. Davie also mentioned senior strong safoty /\'.Jani Sanders and senior defensive end Lamont Bryant as leaders for the young defensive unit. 
Senior walk-on Mark Rule is seeing 
action as the number four quarterback, 
although he didn't play in the scrimmage. 
Gary Godsey, an incoming freshman. who 
was recruited as a light end and possible 
defensive end, will also get a look at quar­
terback in the fall. However, the 6-foot-7, 
255 pounder from Tampa, Fla., may be 
better suited to play his former positions. 
''L 
-... 

-~~--­

Sunday, April I2, 1999 The Observer• TODAY page 23 
SLURRED SPEECH DAN SULLIVAN HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 


D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
0 Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name _______________________ 
Address ____________________ City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
BtLLAMEND 

DILBERT 
r-:::===========:::::-7 
good student 

1 Places to pitch 
31 Scorch 

tents 
3!5 Blunder 6 BMW rival 
37 Neighbor of 10 Dr. Pepper. for Pakistan one 
39Buenos-­14 Dress fold 40 Visa alternative 1!5 Restaurateur 43 Skylark, for one 
Toots 44--fide 16 Golf or tennis 45 Simplicity championship 46What the 
fashion-savvy dela·~ watch for 48 Cry at the 
17 Designer Oscar 
18 Slugger Sammy 
doctor's office 

19 For fear that 
so Home for cubs 

20 Deeply hurt 
51 Goes out. as a 23 Nape's fire counterpart 
53 "Am --time?" 24 Force ss Gulliver's 2!5 D.D.E.'s 1952 
creator and'56 61 Russian opponent parliament 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
CAREW LODZ SOPS OMAN I ANNE UVEA GETON KEAN BERN 
NNEISPOTIOHCRUD 
ARR TATE SOU 
CASTORANOPOLLUX 
~NT PASTURE
!cTul'iiTLs I N T R I U N E S
I-C-1--'-11--1--+-+--+-­
P RIM ACY AER ROMULUSANDREM_.!:!_~ DEL LEOS1~PE JEMIMA TEXT vRT 
AXES  TOAD  ALLOT  
KANT  EVIL  TEASE  
EMUS  SI RE  ETHER  

The Observer 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­
62 Scarlett's home 63 Pungent 65 Man with a spare 
rib? 66 Prepare for publication 67 River through Lyons 68 Exhausted, with 
69Notbogus 10 "The Rehearsal" painter 
DOWN 
1 Paramedic's work, in brief 2 One of the 
Baldwins 3 Computer's option list 
4Raw quarter-pounder 5 Word with symbol or seeker 1---.----+-­
6 Mgr.'s aide 7 Apprehension 
expression sAdministered medicine lo 
9 Invaders of Kuwait, 1990 
10 Game in which players famously cheat 
11 Oil cartel 12 Work space 13 Hill resident 21 Some nerve 22 Flip one's lid? 2s Make --buck 26 Fictional Gantry 21 Soft leather 29 Spirited horse 
E --======================----­
u 
8 g  TH('(  1-\f!,.\/(  P..,  E ~  
@)  l:,UOGEi.  I  PUT  Ii  -~  
~i  ON  "Tl-\t. BACK OF  I  
'"  
E  
0  
0  
-r  
~  
'6  


30 Talked and  49 Facing  57 Diva's song  
talked and  52 Sun protection  58 Part of N.F.L.:  
talked 32 Auto tire necessity 33 Novelist Hermann 34 Ruhr industrial  54 Recess for a statuette 55 Black belt's activity 56 Muscat is its  Abbr. 59 Budweiser ad creature 60 Actress Louise 61 June honoree  
center  capital  64 - Plaines, Ill.  
36 Subject of a  

trademark 
38 Hawaiian goose 
41 Neighbor of Pakistan 42 Horizontal line on a graph 47 Hunting dog 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are avaHabje by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (9511: per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: David Letterman, Shannen Doherty, David Cassidy, Vince Gill, Montserrat Caballe, Andy Garcia, Ann Miller 
Happy Birthday: You have to speak out and let those around you know exactly what you want. Your ideas are good and so are your inten­tions, but if you keep letting others rule your world, you are likely to become dissatisfied. The more you assert yourself, the happier you'll be. You're ready for a change and need to know that you can make a difference. Your numbers: 3, 6, 22, 29, 31, 40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): What a great day to travel. O!t involved in projects that will en.able you to move around. You need a change of scenery if you want lo keep life exciting and fulfillin . 0000 
TAifRUS (April 20-May 20): Don't spend too much on a luxury item. Your partner will not be pleased with your extravagance. Stick to a tight budget for the time being. Your financial state is still not that stable. 
00 
GEMINI (May 21-June :Z0): You'll get caught if you stretch the truth today. Anger will erupt with loved ones if you haven't spent enough time with them. Get your priorities straight before you're left out in the 
coid.00000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): It may be tempting, but you mustn't get involved intimately with someone at work. You'll will have problems with co-workers if you aren't doing your share of the work. 000 
tEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Emotional 
ups and downs will occur at home if 
you are under stress. Try to change 
your attitude. Things don't have to be 

The advertising department is currently hiring for ad designers. 
The position earns $7.50 per hour. 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
perfect in order to be satisfying and make you happy. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. :Z2): Take time to sort out the mess you left at home. You may want to check over your personal papers and make whatever changes are required. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Rela­tives will not want to listen to your excuses. You may want to keep your opinions to yourself. You will be taken the wrong way if you insist on pushing your beliefs on others. 
00000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Instant romance will be passionate and enticing. However, if it involves someone from work, put on the brakes. The problems that result from this tempestuous fling will not be worth ii. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22·Dec. 21): You will have plenty of Oflportunities for romance if you want ilicm. Don't wear yourself out trying to please everyone. You need to make some choices instead of trying to do every­thing. 000 
CAPRICORN <Ott. 22-Jan. 1'1J: 
Your involvement in groups may overload your plate. Exhaustion is evident if you aren't careful about the way you handle yourself and your commitments. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Communication will be necessary if you don't want to have problems with someone you love. Social activi­ty will be favorable, providing you include the one you love. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-Mardt 20): You'll be facing emotional discord if you haven't done your share of the work at home. Don't take on other people's problems before taking care of your 
own.000 
.. 
-
.... 
.... 
Jt 




1111111' di lllllS 
¦ Boobtore basketball play began this weekend
-
and the "Round of 512" will continue through Wednesday.
PORTS 
p.21 

THE 
page 24 0 BSERVER Monday, April 12, 1999 
¦ BASEBALL 
¦ ·.fooTBALL 


Spring scrimmage builds foundation 
By1'IMCASEY Sports \Xlritcr 

Not1.:e Oame head coach.Bob 'd bis st<1ff llada 

~where,th~irttarti stands last Saturday in•Lhe. first ofthree scrimmages scheduled for the spring session. 
Davie stressed the impor­tance o{ pµilding a foundation in the spring and buildln~ tipon that foundation in the summer and fall. 
"The intent of a scrimmage like this is not to make this a pretty scrimtUage. I think what you're tryi:ng to do right now is to:•bµ.ild;a foundation," .said Davie on Saturday. "I think we can take·some positives out of this, in terms of a foundation. By no way are we close to 
The Observer/Jeff Hsu 
being a finished product but
The Irish pitching staff performed admirably during Saturday's doubleheader sweep over Big East rival 
we .doti't.~a.ve to be a finished
Pittsburgh.-Notre Dame pushed its record to 18-14 on the year. 
producty~t" The· pr11ctice began with an emphasis on special teams, an
Sluggers take Big East lead 
area which Davie had planned 
By BILL HART 
Associate Sports Editor 
Weekend skies cleared, allowing the Irish baseball team to take a commanding grip of first place in the Big East standings by sweep­ing conference rival Pittsburgh. 
"We had a lot of guys playing hero for us," head coach Paul Mainieri said, "and that's what I would call a total team effort." 
The Irish got the ball rolling Saturday after­noon with sophomore ace Aaron Heilman on the mound for the first game of a doublehead­
¦ COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
to concentrate on since dayer. The offense provided more than enough 
on~?r .· ·c;e, i . .·.•·

insurance for the right-hander, earning the 4-1 D.~vi e~.andJiJ,n Sanson win in the seven-inning matinee. 
look .. :e I1uriter and kick-
Notre Dame put the first runs on the board in off men ~<of now, but the Jobthe third, after freshman center fielder Steve is wide open come fall whenStanley converted a one-out bunt single, stole highly regarded recruits Nicksecond and took third off a throw by Pittsburgh Setta an.it ;Jpey .. Hildb.old will
catcher Doug Caraway into center field. 

· · · µpperd11Ss.~en.
Catcher Paul O'Toole then singled up the mid­dle to score Stc1nley and take a 1-0 lead. , ··.·..·. , ~art, not .fflfpro•totypI ...·. ter at 6~foot+4, 261
The Irish added another run in the fourth, 
pounds, and James Caputo, a senior walk,;,on, also sawactionsee BASEBALL/ page 18 punting the ball. Miller also kicked off and attempted field goals. 
Davie said that by spending oxtonsiy~ time on field goal and ext.ra<point protection has proven helpful. He said will implement kickoff coverage into the game plan this coming week. 
"We had some good work early in the puntinggame. We came out and tried to put a lot of pressure on our punters and our protection," said Davie. "The same thing with field goaVextra point. We did some of that full-speed rush-that wasn't too bad. It was about how· I expected it to be." 
The scrimmage focused on the running game and option game. With the wind swirling and the need to establish a running attack in the absense of graduated Autry Denson, the aerial attack did not get called upon often. 
"We wanted to really empha­size the running game and the option<game today. The next stepfor. us·is to start to throw thefootball a liitle more effi­cient tl).an we did today," said 
Davie. 

The highlights of the game were the three running backs who ft,fC challengi~g f'or the number one position on the depth chart. 
see FOOTBALL/page 22 
'77 grad Browner leads '99 Hall of Fame inductees 
By ANTHONY BIANCO 
Associate Sports Editor 
Having received numerous awards as the Irish defensive end from 1973 to 1977, Ross Browner's latest accolade ­election to the National College Football Hall of Fame -proved his career among the nation's best. 
The two-time unanimous all-American was officially elected Friday along with 14 other players and coaches. As a four-year starter, Browner played on the defensive line of both the 1973 and 1977 National Championship teams. 
Between the two trophy wins. the Warren. Ohio, native won the Outland Trophy, which honors the nation's top interior lineman, as a junior in 1976. 
As a senior, he added the Lombardi Trophy as the nation's most outstanding col­lege lineman, the Maxwell Award as the most outstand­ing college football player, the United Press International Lineman of the Year award and finished fifth in the Heisman Trophy voting. 
"This is symbolic that it was all worth it -all the hard work, all the desire, all the sacrifice, all the crying," Browner told the South Bend Tribune at Friday's announcement at the College Football Hall of Fame in South Bend. 
It wasn't long after Browner first suited up for the Irish in 1973 that he became a starter -one practice, to be exact. All that then head coach Ara Parseghian and assistant Joe Yonto needed to be convinced of Browner's ability was proven in that first outing. 
"At the first practice, Coach Yonto said, 'Just get me in thrre and hurt 'em,' and that was the last time I played on the freshman team," Browner said, according to the South Bend Tribune. 
Aside from his gridiron achievements, it was his com­mitment to education that drew Hrowner to Notre Dame. When Parseghi: promised Browner a chance to play as freshman, he also assured him a good education. 
Browner said it was the sell­ing point that kept him from instead playing at Ohio State. 

Browner graduated in 1978 with a degree in economics before playing from 1979 through 1986 first with the Cincinnati Bengals, where he was drafted in 1978 as the eight overall selection in the first round. He later played for the Green Bay Packers. 
The journey as one of the top defensive linemen at Notre Dame also had its share of setbacks for Browner. 
After an outstanding fresh­m an season that saw him rank third on the team in tackles, he missed the 1974 campaign for disciplinary rea­sons. Far from a stumbling point. Browner insists that it also helped shape him. 
"That was one of those hur­dles I talk about," he said. "You analyze it -how it hap­pened, why it happened ­and make sure it does not ever happen again. You learn." 
This year's 12 player and three coaching inductees will be formally inducted next December at a ceremony in New York. 

The Observer/Kevin Dalum Former Irish defensive end Ross Browner signed an autograph at the College Football Hall of Fame in South Bend. Browner headed a list of 15 inductees this year. 
vs. Michigan at Ohio Seate
r.Jl) 

Wednesday, 3 p.m. Wednesday, 3:30 p.m,
SPORTS 

~ 
Softball vs. Calvin College 
ATA 
t!J 

Thursday, 3:30 p.m. 
at Indiana at Vanderbilt@ Thursday, 3 p,m .. Tuesday, 3 p.m. 
~
GLANCE 




