
Phish 2K 
It happened again 
For $175 you can jam with Phish in the ye~r 
A seventh-grade boy opened fire on his fellow 

Tuesday
2000 at their first festival ofthe year at Big 
classmates. wounding four ofthem in a Monday 

Cypress Seminole Indian Reservation. 
morning shooting. 

DECEMBER 7, 
Scene . page 13 
World & Nation . page 5 

1999 
THE 




VOL XXXIII NO. 64 HTTP://OBSERVER.N D.EDU 
j 
The power ,j ge that black­ened Saint Ma early Friday morning may h . served as a blessing in disgu for the cam­pus Y2K team. 
As the commu struggled with the inconveni ·e of a lack of telephone servi s. internet accuss and eluctric . the infor­mation technology .am had the perfect dry run lo epare for the possiblu implicati . of Y2K. . 
"This was Ii our Y2K fire drill," said .Joe .ooper, director of Saint Ma 's Information Technology. e know that we are prepar . for anything that could happ . 
Campus omputing networks were up ·· d running within an hour or wer restoration, and fl­mail s . ices were running short­ly the . aftnr. 
ll ave the Y2K team a much nm t>d sencse of security. 
· e foel like we are in good sl pe," Cooper said. "This made 11 to go through all the 'what ifs' 
ti '.t could happen... 
'ilially. computer experts 
)dwide feared that systems 

2K Unplugged 
~. As the fear of Y2K chaos spreads across the world, will Notre Dame and Saint Marys be ready? 
would be unable to handle the change over to the year 2000, and that embedded systems would fail, causing power outages. data­base collapses and other techno­logical failures. That fear eased over the past year. as electrical companies and other technology­related industries upgraded their systems. 
"We've contacted the utilities companies and they've assured us that everything is fine," Cooper said. "Of course. we'll be watch­ing as the year moves across the in te rna tio nal dateline, but if See Also: 
other technolog-"South Bend 
ical countries go smoothly. we'll prepares for Y2K" be fine." 
page8

While Friday's blackout incon­venienced near­ly all of the campus community, Y2K is not expected to have a drastic impact on normal opera­tions. Any repercussions should be minor, due to updated technol­ogy services, communication w_ith outside vendors, and a contin­gency plan that outlines emer­gency actions that will be taken in 
see SMC/page 8 

By MATTHEW SMITH 
News Writer 
When the new millennium hits, most students will be far away in body and mind from Notre Dame. 
Teams of Y2K specialists have been working behind the scenes for months and will continue into January to assure a smooth transi­tion for students when classes· resume for spring semester. 
Mike Favorite, associate director of Y2K compliance for the University. seems about as worried about Y2K as he is about wh?-t to eat for lunch. 
"I don't think we'll have any problems," he said. "The most like­ly scenario is that your computer will be unaffected, and everything will be just fine." 
Of the 1,335 items categorized as "critical or life-threatening" on campus, F.~vorite explained that 97 percent have already been checked and found to be compliant. 
He focused his main concerns on the basic infrastructure items that Notre Dame students. staff and fac­ulty will need, including electricity. pumps for our groundwater, regis­tration files, student records, pay­roll, the registrar's computers and financial aid. Each of these critical areas has a backup machine and priorities have already been worked out in the unlikely case of a limited power source, to keep the 
see Y2K/page 8 
SUB to host 
open forum 
. Campus entertainment struggles without campus venues, funding 
By TIM LOGAN News ,Editor 
College campuses nationwide are popular stomping grounds for top-flight music actr,;. 
Bands play University-sponsored shows all the time, gaining access to a music-hungry demographic. Students attend the high-qual­ity live concerts on a regular basis. 
But not at Notre Dame. 
Occasionally, a big-name band will play at the Joyce Center, as Aerosmith did a year ago, but those shows are almost always done through an outside promoter such as Ticketmaster. Concerts sponsored by Notre Dame's Student Union Board (SUB) usually look more like the performance by Cowboy Mouth on· Nov. 17: A lesser-known band playing in a half-empty Stepan Center. 
Tonight, SUB is hosting an open forum to discuss campus entertainment, and among the items under discussion will likely be con­certs on campus. 
'Typically the number one question that's asked about what's going on on campus is. what concerts are coming?" said SUB con­cert commissioner Dan Puccini. But, he acknowledges, too often the answer to that question is a concert for a band no one has heard of. 
The reason for this is "complex," accord­ing to Tony Perry. SUB's advisor in the Office of Student Activities. Ile notes that there are three major factors that decide whether a concert can come to Notre Dame. One is the availability of Stepan Center, one is the rout­ing of bands on tour at the time and one is cost. 
Cost is the most important and most di!TI­cult variable in the process, according to organizers. 
"The resources that Notre Dame gives me don't give me enough to bring the Top 40 
see SUB /page4 

Students, citizens unite in execution protests 
. Scheduled execution sparks debate 
By MATTHEW SMITH 
News Wrircr 
A legally mentally retarded rnan is set to bn executed by the State of Indiana on Thursday in Michigan City. 
Thn execution has death penalty opponents from all over Lhe country coming to Indiana to voice their-disgust. 
D.11. Fl1rnnor. convictud in 1984 of lhe double-murder of his in-laws, has an 1.Q. of 75 and a history of severe alcohol abuse. Opponents of his execu­tion say he is not capable of understanding his sentence. and also point to an unethical clause in a recent law passed in Indiana iis reasons to grant him clemency from the death penal­
ty. 
Due to a recent law, Indiana uo longer imposes the death penalty on people who are proven to be mentally retarded, although the law has been declared non-retroactive. This means that Fleenor and other legally mentally retarded inmates on Dnath Row will still have their executions carried out by use of lethal injection. 
see EXECUTION/page 4 
. Three Notre Dame groups plan protests 
By LAURA ROMPF News Writer 
Students across campus will protest the Wednesday execu­tion of D. H. Fleenor, a mental­ly retarded n}an who was s~n­tenced in the 1984 shootrng deaths of his in-laws. 
"l have a problem with all sentences of death penalty," said Laura Antkowiak, presi­dent of Notre Dame llight to Life. "I lowever, in this case. the man being executed is mentally retarded and has been formally diagnosed. The state is aware of this and he is being put to death anyway." 
Vigils will be held on campus at Fieldhouse Mall from mid­night to 1 a.m. 
Antkowiak further explained more reasons that students are protesting the execution. "Also both the daughter and the granddaughter have testified that they are opposed to the death pP.nalty. and also the vie­tims themselves were opposed and would not have wanted Fleenor executed," she said. "And yet, the state has gone ahead and sentenced him to death." 
Because of these reasons, several stu­dent groups 
Vigils 

on campus 
are planning vigils to . Wednesday, protest the 
11 p.m. ­

execution. "We're 1 a.m., joining with 
Michigan City

Amnesty International and Pax • Thursday,
Christi, two 
midnight ­

other groups on campus 1 a.m., who are 
Fieldhouse 

involved in 
Mall

this issue to go to 
see PROTESTS/page 4 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Break out the tear gas 
Sixties activist Tom Hayden calls it "the power of the street." Others liken the participants to the so-called "heroes" who protested the Vietnam War. And the environmentalisl'i and anti-trade zealots around the world are shocked at the police brutality. 
I am. of course. referring to the protests in Seattle launched against the World Trade Organization (vVfO) last week. For several days, these protestors stormed around the Pacific Northwest bemoaning the conference and the organi­zation on environmental grounds, among other things. You've probably seen the pictures of police dressed in riot gear to stop the more violent of the pro­testors, some even showing activists getting the tear gas treatment. 
And, as always, the media coverage is deemed "unfair." Apparently. none of the dissidents had been the least bit violent or uncooperative. RaLher, they were the innocent victims of a city­wide effort to billy-club a few tree buggers. And if you believe this for one moment, the protestors have duped you completely. 
No one needs to remind us that some of our people in law enforcement have abused their authority to mistreat criminals and protestors. It's an unfortunate fact we must deal with on a case by case basis. However, most if not all of the police actions in Seattle were simply a brutal real-· ity resulting from the uncooperative protestors and the havoc they unleashed on the Northwest. 
Of course. I've seen plenty of accounts describ­ing the nonviolent protestors. I've witnessed the complaints about the use of rubber bullets and tear gas. None of these accounts can hide the multi-million dollar damage that has taken place. They cannot_ hide the fact that unfortunately, not all of the protestors were minding their own busi­ness and "not hurting anyone." 
Yet the whimpering continues. And progres­sives fail to defend the inexcusable actions of the less peacefulrioters, often denying their exis­tence. During the Vretnam War, there were cer­tainly scores of peaceful demonstrators who harmed little else than their brain cells. But did we not also have the bottle throwing and shouting of "baby killer" by ungrateful cowards? This is now dressed up as "heroics" in an attempt to romanticize the protests of that era. 
Face it: The idiots went and spoiled all of the fun for the nonviolent types dressed like sea tur­tles. Police had every right to quell any uprising that threatened local residents or their business­es. Once protests have "pushed the envelope," the city must respond to ensure safety and minimize. damage to property. 
So what if Moon Child takes a rubber bullet to the noggin, or one of his comrades gets a club to the knee? Volumes will be written crying out at these atrocities, but they'll blatantly ignore the duty and responsibility of the mayor and the police to restore order. And order is such a fascist term to protestors who don't get their way. 
This situation would never have required police to put the smack down had all protests remained 
civil. As Jong as protests continue, police will be ready and waiting for anyone who breaks the law. I support "the system" and encourage them to keep one hand on the tear gas and one on the baton. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofFhe Observer. . 

Dustin Ferrell 
Assitant Viewpoint Editor 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Maureen Smithe Emmett Malloy Laura Rompf Jenn Zatorski 
Courtney Boyl~ Graphics 
Sports Mandi Powell Kathleen O'Brien Production Viewpoint Brian Kessler 
Lila Haughley Lab Tech Joe Stark 
The Ohseivn (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except durin~ exam and vacarion periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associiltcd Pr(:ss. All r~ptoduction rlghts arc reserv~d 
The Observer . INSIDE  Tuesday, December 7, 1999  
QUOTES OF THE WEEK  
"The main thing that got me was that they kept stressing the next 40 years instead ofthe nextfour. Coming out with a Notre Dame degree is special. " Mike Goolsby Notre Dame football recruit  "What I want to do is go out there and fight for people's rights." Yasmin Voglewede disabled student  "I love it here. I can't imagine being anywhere else." Ralph Mcinerny professor of philosophy and medieval studies  "This is going to be a special game to honor all ofthe loved ones we've lost to cancer." Iman! Dumbar junior gaurd on basketball game raising awareness for breast cancer  

Compiled from U-Wire reports


OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Iowa student unable to light menorah in room 
IOWA CITY, Iowa "I haven't lit the menorah yet rededication of the Temple in 
This isn't University of -Iowa fresh­Jerusalem.
because you 're not allowed to 
man Carrie Barbakoff's first There are approximately 700 Hanukkah away from home, but with­light candles in the dorms." Jowish students at the UI. Because out being able to light a menorah. it university rules prohibit lit candles in may prove to be the most difficult. dorm rooms, many students must cel­
Carrie Barkoff 
She has decorated her room in her ebrate Hanukkah outside of the resi­

Iowa freshman
residence hall with signs and pictures. dence halls. She has eaten the traditional · Ul sophomore Jonah Phillips said he Hanukkah food sent by her home syn­avoids the problem by celebrating agogue, but the candles in the meno­Hanukkah at the Hillel Jewish Center.
'The actual lighting of the menorah
rah remain unlit. a missing part of the He said he understands why the UI
is the religious observance." she said.
"festival of lights." would have a no-candle policy
"People are allowed to smoke in dorm 
"I haven't lit the menorah yet because the candles could create a 
rooms and light matches in dorm
because you're not allowed to light fire hazard.
rooms; why aren't we allowed to light 
candles in the dorms," she said. "I "I know a lot of students who wish
candles for a religious holiday?" 
was kind of frustrated because I they could have candles, but I think
Hanukkah is an eight-day "festival
understand it's a fire hazard, but for it's reasonable," he said. 
of lights" in which a corresponding
religious observance, some exception Bernie lsacovici, a UI junior and the
number of candles are lit for each day 
to the rule could be made." vice president of the Hillel Jewish
of the holiday. It commemorates the
She knows she could buy an electric Center student board, said the no­
165 B.C. victory of the Maccabees
menorah, Barbakoff said, but that candle policy can create difficulties 
over Antiochus Epiphanes and the
doesn't fulfill the same purpose. for students living in the dorms. 
Texas denies making memorial T-shirts 
COLLEGE STATION. Texas 
The Department of Collegiate licensing for Texas A&M University has now prohibited retailers from selling mer­chandise memorializing Bonfire. A&M clothing retailer Inspirations, the first to produce and sell the memorial Bonfire "Muster" T-shirts, was ordered by Collegiate licensing to donate its proceeds and shirts to Traditions Council. Toby Boenig, manager of A&M collegiate licens­ing, said his office will not approve any licenses for Bonfire items intended for retail sales. "The policy we adopted says only student groups directly atrtliated with Texas A&M are permitted to use A&M trademarks to sell products memorializing Bonfire," he said. Boenig said the University requires all proceeds from sales of Bonfire-· related items be donated to the Bonfire memorial fund. Matt Timmons. a traditions council member and a senior community health major, said Inspirations donated 1,500 "Muster" T-shirts left in their store and at the printer to the Traditions Council after the University mandated only student organizations could sell Bonfire merchandise. Timmons said students lined the main hallway of the MSC last week, waiting to get a tangible memory of Bonfire. 
Nebraska faculty supports fetal research 
LINCOLN, Neb. 

Members of University of Nebraska's faculty are scared of the effects that stopping research on fetal tissue at the university's medical center may have on academic free­dom. In a letter sent Friday to the governor, the attorney general and the speaker of the unicameral. 10 members of the faculty chided officials for threatening budget cuts if the university did not discontinue the research. "It is a dangerous exercise of political power to threaten the whole university or any one of its sites with punitive bud­get cuts based on such volatile issues as are present in this case," wrote English professor James McShane on behalf of nine other faculty members. McShane wrote the letter in response to threats last week by state senators to cut university funding after it was reported in the Omaha World-Herald that the University of Nebraska Medical Center performed Alzheimer's disease research on abort­ed fetal tissue. McShane said he defends the university for the research it does. "The last time I heard, abortion was legal," he said. "The University of Nebraska has a board to determine what is ethical and so does the federal gov­ernment." 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast· 
AccuWeather"' forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather" forecast for noon, Tuesday, Dec. 7. 

Tuesday 

Wedne~day 
TJlU(S~Y 
....,._.. ........................


Fri(lay) 

0 1090 AccuWeather, Inc. COLO WARM STATIONARY 
I 
Pr.aure:

;' ®© .~ [IT]~~~O~M 
High Low Showen R•lri T·etorme Flurrle• Snow Ice Sunny pt, Clo~y Cloudy


SatuJday 
Y~;'JS"''''--·,, 

Atlanta 52 58 Las Vegas 33 36 Portland 32 40 Balflmore 32 36 Memphis 40 43 Sacramento 55 48 Boston 30 33 Milwaukee 36 40 St. Louis 40 35 ShowBrs T-storms Ralll Fl.;rries S~~;; Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Chicago 35 42 New York 28 32 Tampa 65 59 Via Associated Press Gn,phicsN6t Houston 63 66 Philadelphia 29 33 Wash DC 45 50 

(i:fA~,~~~~ (f ~ ~ 

Tuesday, December 7, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
CLC turns focus to 
SMC athletes spread holiday cheer 
each varsity team, this holiday involved. "The community 
24-hour space 
By NICOLE HADDAD 
N~ws Writ~r 
Children's eyes lit up a.s they 11ntered Saint Mary's Angela Athletic Facility Sunday after­noon just knowing that Santa was only a few short steps away. 
Candy canes. prizos, popcorn, arts and crafts -what else could they wish for'? 
The spirit of Christmas filled the room when athletes, coach­es. faculty, staff and children from the Saint Mary's commu­nity came together and shared the seasonal excitement. 
Children met all of the Saint Mary's athletes and participat­ed in various activities us they Wtmt from each station spon­sornd by a dif'fernnt varsity t,iam. From coloring and cutting to decorating cookies and face painting, thuir energy nuver cemmd. 
Evon when parents found thnir childrnn wired from all the sugar, they headed down to the rourts for a couple shonl-outs or games of volleyball. 
Sponsored by the Student Athletic Advisory Committee, cunsisting of lwo athletes from 
CLARIFICATION 
The Inside Column in Monday's Observer contained information that was inaccu­rate. Tho Univnrsity does not regularly read student e­mails. 
"That !column) makes asser­tions that are absolutely false," said Bill Kirk, assistant vice president for rnsident life. "There was just no truth to it." 
Kirk reforred to a section on rnsponsibln technology use in du Lac that outlinns the University's policies on topics 
event made its debut  strongly supports athletes and it  
"It's not only a team builder  is nice to give something back  
but also a great way to reach out to the community," Lynn  to them and their families," she said.  By HELENA RAYAM  
Kachmarik, director of athletics  This event was clearly benefi­ News Writer  
said. "We hope to make it an  cial for both athletes and chil­ 
annual event."  dren alike.  "Watching the kids  Student surveys revealed that  
Waiting anxiously in line to  have fun and sharing in their  views on 24-hour space vary  
see Santa included children  joy definitely brings out the  among residence halls, said  

came from ECDC (Early Christmas spirit. Childhood Development Center}, as a team we The Village Married .. Student "The parents really Housing, St. 
appreciate it. It gives
Margaret's 
kids self-confidence and
House, as weJI as those of the we're a positive influence faculty and 
on them."

staff of the col­lege. "It's a great Kate Zimmer way for Saint 
freshman track nmner 

Mary's ath­letes lo inter-
By doing this 
grow closer together with every child," said freshman swimmer M e g Mikiciuk. "By get­ting to know the other athletes, it will be more fun to sup­port them," 
act with the community and usher in the Christmas season," said freshman soccer player Heather Muth. 
As a member of the Advisory Board, sophomore basketball player Kelly Roberts helped plan the even and was thrilled to see such pride for Saint Mary's and willingness to get 
such as acceptable use, priva­cy and confidentiality. 
According to du Lac, University computing resources should be used for education, research and public service. 
Inappropriate uses include things such as harassment, libel or slander, pornography and material that is contrary to the mission or values of the University. As du Lac explains, improper use of University computing resources include 
ATTENTION STUDENTS:  know what the rules are con­ 
cerning 24-hour space.  
Father Paul Doyle, rector of  
WHYSELLYOURUSEDTEXTBOOKSBACKTOTHEBOOKSTOREFOR  Dillon Hall, said that the rectors who are not content with the  
LESS WHEN YOU CAN SELL THEM DIRECTLY TO ANOTHER STUDENT?  24-hour space should be identi­ 
CAMPUSMONSTER.COM ALLOWS STUDENTS TO SELL THEIR USED  fied and be made aware that there is money available if the  
TEXTBOOKS TO OTHER STUDENTS. YOU WILL MAKE MORE MONEY  facility is the problem.  
AND YOUR FELLOW STUDENTS WILL SAVE MORE!  IT'S THAT SIMPLE.  "In some of the halls you have to leave the implementation  
somewhat to the rector because  
LOG ON NOW AND LIST YOUR FALL SEMESTER TEXTBOOKS AND GET  

ENTERED FOR THE CHANCE TO WIN YOUR NEXT SEMESTERS BOOKS 
FOR FREE!!!! THAT'S RIGHT. WE WILL HOLD A DRAWING ON DECEM­
BER 30, 1999 TO FIND THE WINNER OF OUR" SEMESTER FOR FREE" 
CONTEST. YOU WILL RECEIVE 1 ENTRY FOR EVERY BOOK YOU LIST. 
THE MORE BOOKS YOU LIST THE BETTER YOUR CHANCES OF 
WINNING. 
WHEN YOU'RE THERE, GET THE LATEST SCOOP ON WHAT'S HAPPEN­
ING AT YOUR COLLEGE OR AT CAMPUSES AROUND THE COUNTRY. 
THERE'S ALSO A SECTION WITH UP TO DATE SCORES AND COLLEGE 
NEWS. 
FROM TEXTBOOK SWAPPING, COLLEGE APPAREL AND GAME TICKETS 
TO THE LATEST CAMPUS NEWS, IT'S ALL JUST A CLICK AWAY AT 
CAMPUSMONSTER.COM 



El
Announcing the 5ili Annual Keough Summer Internships In Ireland 
. '!•,oi ••• .JI_ .. ',.'.. :\.-,""~,C·r-,.••..,~l,.,.'r~~••~ ."'• '", ..,'":J,-'k:';,i,-"1··..'.: '. ·•~•( ·: ''\_1~ 'j. .";?•• -~ 
Toe Keough Internship will mclude,;. , ·} ': ·· · ••..~.L · · ;; ,>. f: , ~..: ~ight to ten '3/eeks' int~ship l1;, ' '. . \i •• ,, ·Pr ;. ....~Round trip airfare from the Uniteq,.~tates to Irel~d . · •• "' Room and board ..·. • ,. · ·, .. ' ,,. · · 
• Stipend ..,,1_,,: •·•• . ·i ' .;,:!' ~ 
',:' l -,o ~i•.. ·.: ••:.. , .i• •·•,i: 

All Notre Dame JUNIORS with a demonstrated interest in Irish Studies/Ireland are encouraged to apply. 
Applications available in the Keough Institute for Irish Studies 1146 Flanner Hall 
Applications due by Friday, 17 December 1999 

PUSfflDDSTBR.GOffl 
"If we don't have it, you can't get it!" 
the way they're designed," said Brother Jerome Moyer, rector of Knott Hall. "There might be some halls that don't have facil­ities for 24-hour space." 
CLC members used Stanford and Keenan Hall as example where, in previous years, the lobby was the only 24-hour space, which differs greatly from most other dorms that have a separate room with a television and often games. 
"The facilities exist," said Ava Preacher, assistant dean of the college of arl'l and letters, "but they might not be utilized as actual 24-hour space." 
The committee for 24-hour space is going to meet again to discuss the issues of implement­ing the space, defining it and making sure that the facilities are available. · 
"Uniformity is definitely an issue," said Ross Kerr. "Whether it's the University enforcing [24-hour space] or the rectors, there needs to be an understanding." 
In other CLC News: 
. 
A new ATM will be installed at the south entrance of North Dining Hall. Co-chairman of Hall President's Council Brian Rigney and assistant vice presi­dent of resi~ence life, Bill Kirk worked with Business Operations and the Notre Dame Credit Union to get tire installa­tion approved. 

. 
The Diversity Committee is interested in taking various freshmen orientation work­shops "one step further" said representative Michael Fierro. The Committee is also dis­cussing student hosts, especially for Spring Visitation. 

. 
The Alcohol Committee is talking to rectors about alcohol policies and will interview stu­dents about alcohol-related issues at the beginning of the spring semester. 

. 
Chairman Micah Murphy announced that the University will encourage more student participation during basketball season. There will be a pre­game pep rally for the next game. 


said sophomore volleyball play­er Jamie Dineen. 
Many athletes realized how much the parents prized their enthusiasm. "The parents real­ly appreciate it. It gives kids self-confidence and we're a pos­itive influence on them," said freshman track and field mem­ber Kate Zimmer. 
leave," said Tomes referring to a survey response. 
The committM remarked that this frequently applied lo female dorms rather than male dorms. 
'There seems to be an issue with consistency between halls," said Bill Kirk. assistant vice president of Student A!Tairs. 
In order to decrease inconsis­tency, the CLC established a written definition of 24-hour space and drafted a resolution that the definition be put into du Lac. Father Mark Poorman, vice president of student affairs, sent a response, acknowledged that while there is no formal defini­tion of 24-hour or social space, the decision "is left to the dis­cretion of each rector." 
"My regular hall monitor knows that [24-hour space is for all hours of the day]." said Sister Mary Ann MueninghofT, rector of Pasquerilla East. 
However, Mueninghoff said she heard of incidents when substitute monitors have enforced other rules. She sug­gested letting all hall monitors purposes that are "illegal, immoral, unethical, dishonest, damaging to the reputation of the University, inconsistent with the mission of the University or likely to subject the University to liability." 
The University does reserve the right to inspect or examine Notre Dame owned or operat­ed computer systems or files contained within those sys­tems. Page 181 of du Lac out­lines the steps the University will take to act on this right. 
Cavanaugh Hall senator Bridget Tomes at Monday's Campus Life Council meeting. 
The issue of male and female interaction in 24-hour space was a concern in the surveys. 
Tomes said it was a common complaint by students that when hall monitors leave, stu­dents of the opposite sex are asked to leave. This shortens the 24-hour space to 20-hour space because parietals end at 10a.m. 
"When the security guard left at 6 a.m., the male was told to 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, December 7, 1999 
Protests 
continued from page 1 
Michigan City and participate in a peaceful vigil in hopes that Governor [Frankl O'Bannon will change his mind," Antkowiak said. "Also the vigils are just to express opposition to the Death Penalty and praying of Mr. Fleenor·s soul." 
The number of students involved is unclear. but group leaders are participation will increase. "We're not 
exactly sure on "Personally as a Catholic, how evil a the exact num­I'm committed to the crime a per­
son ,wmmii­

ber of student 
dignity of every human 
ted, theylife. It is God's decision, were created
participants. 
We are still try­
in God's

ing to get peo­not ours, to end a life." 
ple to sign up,'' image and likeness, and
said Matt 
Laura Antkowick therefore
Monberg, pres­ident of president, Notre Dame they have the right to life. 
Amnesty Right to Ute 
International. · 
Monberg fur­ther explained that the student groups will meet up with other people µrotesting the execulion from around the state. 
"We are working with two other groups in Indiana: St. Joseph and Elkhart County Religious Against the Death Penalty and the Indiana Coalition to Abolish Capital Punishment," he said. "My expe­rience in recent years shows that there is a growing opposi­tion to the death penalty. Both of these groups have been a grass roots effort from people protesting the death penalty. All these people have full time jobs and are simply doing this on their free time because they feel strongly about the issue." 
Monberg hopes that the group will be able to be a voice against the death penalty. 
"We have several goals," he said. "First, we want the com­mutation of Mr. Fleenor's sen­tence from death to life in prison.' Second, we want to be a strong voice. As a member of the state of Indiana -a citizen of Indiana -I want my pres­ence to be symbolic of my voice. Through a letter to the governor and my presence at the prison on Wednesday night shows the importance of the issue." 
All three organizations hope students will get involved. 
"Certainly going out on Wednesday night will be a pow­erfuJ statement," said Antkowick. "[ know that people will be out celebrating, but if they could cut it a bit a short and do something meaningful, they can make an impact." 
Monberg said that going to the vigil at the prison would help students Liecome more aware of what is going on. "This wHI be the third execution I have attended since being a student here at Notre Dame -Robert Smith in 1997 and Gary Burris in 1996," he said. "I feel it is really important and that all stu­dents should experience it at some point. No matter 
"We ought 
to keep D.H. 

Fleenor in our prayers especially in light of tho start of Jubilee 2000, a time in which we are challenged to live lives of' forgiveness and renewal," Monberg continued. 
All three students said people should understand the value of Flecnor's life even though he committed this crime. 
"Personally as a Catholic, I'm committed to the dignity of every human life," Antkowick said. "It is God's decision. not ours, to end a life. Even though he's committed a terribly wrong action, it is not the state's deci­sion to take his life. He may be a monster, but the state can not take his life." 
Monberg also called attention to the value of Fleerior's life. "I hope the vigil shows the impor­tance of these lives, of these people who are important. The goal of the vigil is to recognize both Mr. Fleenor and his vic­tims," he concluded. 
"Personally, I believe that the state will commit premeditated murder Wednesday night," said Brendan Egan. a member of Pax Christi. "It is that simple. Whatever the vocabulary will be, the truth is that the state or Indiana is vengefully killing another human being. And this human being is not even men­tally healthy. As a Catholic University, Notre Dame should be shouting for the protection of human life." 
The College of Science 
DISTINGUISHED SCHOLAR 
lecture Series 1 
FROM the DIAMETER of the WorldW!de Web to KEVIN BACON 
New Oiret:tlans In Camp/exit!/ 

Albert~Laszl . Barabas! 
D,;cartmPnt of Pll!i!'II<:~ 
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 7 
8:00 PM Debartolo Room 138 
Execution 
continued from page I 
Activists who who offer rea­sons for clemency point to sev­eral issues. 
"Every family member [both in Lhe victim's and in Fleenor's family I on record has opposed the death penalty," explained Matthew Monberg, president of the NotrP Dame chapter of Amnesty International. "Even his mother, who turned him in [in 1984], favors simply a life sentence for this man. 
"There has been a huge out­pouring of support, in the state and around the country," he added. "It really feels like peo-
SUB 
continued from page 1 
acts that students keep request­ing," Puccini said, SUB Concert Committee has a budget of $23,000 a year. 
But even if they had more money, the committee would not necessarily be able to host more shows. 
This is the paradox that con­cert organizers face at Notre Dame. Stepan only seats 2,000, although SUB does not have to pay rent to use it. In addition, the University's reluctance to charge more than $20 for a tick­et, and the $23,000 budget SUB has for concerts, limil'> the orga­nization's ability to lure and pay big-name talent. 
Top-40 acts frequently charge upwards of $30,000 for a con­cert, Perry said, putting SUB in the red even before factoring in overhead costs. 
One solution Puccini proposes is co-sponsorship of concerts. If other organizations helped SUB pay for concerts, they would lose less money and could bring pie who are against the death penalty are coming out [to protest the Fleenor easel. 
"A lot of people favor the death penalty because they believe it's less expensive," Monberg said. "However. it's actually far more expensive than [life imprisonment)." 
Last week, Fleenor didn't show up at his clemency hear­ing. marking an end to any legal means that can be carried out. Numerous lawyers have offered to defend him, but Fleenor has shown no interest in seeking council. Ho report­edly told one clemency board member to "show no mercy." 
The only chance remaining for Fleenor is if Indiana Governor Frank O'Bannon 
more shows, be said. 

"We really need some groups on campus with the will to do this," he said. "Everyone's got to work together." 
Working alone, the SUB Concert Committee spent its entire budget on the Third Eye Blind concert last year, Puccini said, and nearly its whole bud­get on Cowboy Mouth last month. As a result, there was only one concert last year. 
"If you do a concert. you do a concert," he said. "You're selling significantly less tickets for sig­nificantly less money, because people aren't going to pay as much. When it all adds up, your loss financially is the same." 
Renting out the Joyce Center, which seats approximately 11,000, can cost anywhere from $20,000 to $50,000, according to Joe Sassano, events manager for the Joyce Center. While the facility can hold more people than Stepan. the band.s that would be able to fill it would also likely be out of SUB's price range, according to Sassano. 
"We don't have the facilities to break even," Perry said. Security is another issue. 
chooses to grant clemency. Although he has been "respon­sive to letters," Monberg explained that "he hasn't been responsive in the way we want him to be." 
Phone calls to the governor's office by The Observer were not returned. 
Monberg urged students to join people from arnund the country in a vigil out.side of the Michigan City State Prison, where Flmmor is set to b11 exe­cuted. 
The vigil in Michigan City will go from 11 p.m. to 1 a.m., on Wednesday. 
An on-campus vigil is planned for midnight to 1 a.m. on Thursday at the Fieldhouse Mall. 
When SUB considers bringing a band to campus, they give the namo to Notre Dame Security/Police, which contacts other campus security depart­ments to find out about past incidents at colleges. If a history of dangerous or illegal activity is discovernd, Security may rec­ommend that the contract not be signed. according to Hex Rakow, director of Campus Security. 
"We want to know about bands that don't follow the con­tract, and bands that encourage behavior we don't want," he said, noting that such behavior includes encouragement of crowd surfing and moshing. "These are just risks we don't want the University to take on." 
But they rarely recommend against bands, Rakow said. There was just one incident, when research on the ska band The Mighty Mighty Bosstones found the group had a history of problems at other schools. 
Fundamentally, however, the p'roblem is not with the University restricting bands as it is with a lack of funds to bring in top-level talent. 


NEEDS COMMISSIONERS! 
Pick up your applications outside #315 LaFortune from November 29th -December 8th 
LAST DAY FOR SIGN-UPS IS TOMORROW! 
Questions? Call 1-6028 or e-mail us at BKSTR.l@nd.edu 


Tuesday, December 7, 1999 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Adviser defends Kohl 
on accounts 
BERLIN 
Form1:r (icrman chunccllor llelmut Kohl hucl only limited knowledge of a vast web of mo,rny tra11sf1irs within his party, the Christian Dt>rno1Tats' I.ax adviser told investi­gillon,; in testimony published Monday. The mass-circulation Bild newspaper published nxcnrpts of' tlw snven hours of' lflstimony given last month ;u:rnss two pages. lt was llw latest in a sMins of rnvelations in a growing Chrislian Dnmocrat f'inanrial scandal that thrnattms Kohl's IBgacy. Parliament has launctwcl an inquiry to (•xamitrn whether gnv­t\rn1111rnt decisions during Kohl's 1982-98 cham:nllorship wtwn influenced by illicit pay­lllPnts. Kohl admittl'd running ol'f'-tlrn-books party accounts la:.;t week, 1ml has adamantly d1111i!id that any of' tho money involved bribes for otlicial actions. 
Castro attends rescued boy's party 
HAVANA 
l'rnsid11nt Fidel Castro made a surprise appnarancn Monday at a 6th birthday party !'or Elian Gonzalez, continuing his campaign for Urn hoy to be returned to his father in Cuba. Elian's elmnentary school classmates organizml the party for Elian in his absence. Tlw boy, who was rescued off Lhe Florida 1:oast nearly two weeks ago, has become a polilical poster child l'or Cubans on both sides of Llw Florida Straits. Castro's government slnpped up pressure on the United Sti.tes, npp1!aling for international support, organiz­ing strnet protests and demanding Sunday that l·'.lian bo returned to his father in 72 hours -by Tuesday night. But the State Department rojected the demand, saying the fato of Urn child should be based on humani­tarian considerations. 
Traffic injuries stress kids 
CIIICAGO 
A study of children and teenagers injured in trafnc accidents found that 25 percent suf­fornd post-traumatic stress disorder, but most parents sought no help for them. Victims of post-traumatic stress disorder may have rncurring memories ol' the experience, a strong dcsirn to forget what happened, slcep­lessnr.ss, .jumpinuss and trouble concentrat­ing. One million youngsters are hurt every ytmr in traffic accidents in the United States, and parents may ovm-look the long-term anguish that can result f'rom 1wen minor acci­dr.nls. rns11arr.hers said in the December issue of tlw journal Pediatrics. The researchers sludiPd 102 childrnn and teen-agers. ages 3 through 17, who were injured in traflic acci­dm1ts. · 
ltiiiNiittMMt#I
Dow AMEx: 
829.82 
JONES ·5·08 
Nasdaq:
-61.17 
3546.01 
25.38 
JJ 
NYSE 
641.66 
-5.07 

S&P 500: Composite Volume;
1423.34
11,225.01 
-9.96 18,471,387,359 
VOLUME LEADERS 
CQNP&n TtCIU \ CIIFI I C:,NPQI lltXCS 
x•oa•,_ co .. -:15." -9.:15]5 l5. 31 nco nrrt L'TD ffC •t.ll •1.5675 !5.U UTa A.JD co•,-IW> +H.15 +l.1'7O0 11.nti• &UICOJlf N.,T -0.71 -0.6150 95.U Jttci.:o•on UH .. ;n .o, -t.50!10 25. 62 1'¦ C'X C:OllPO»TXO TCU +U.00 +10.HQ{) 2.!Jt D¦ l.l, COIU'lnll D&LL -1, ,2j -0• .5Sl5 •••75 AXD.IC'~ !'>N'L:Ull: AOL .) • .n +::1.525",0 91 .oo COM•AO C'ON"'-""" CfO •0.697::1 H.'51
.,.,1 
CIIC'OaH'l'DI• CICO ·~-11 +l.U7!f !illl •.lS 
orld 
I ¦ n 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
Associated Press 
FORT GIBSON, Okla. 

A seventh-grader walked up to a crowd of youngsters waiting for the morning bell Monday and allegedly opened fire with a gun, wounding four schnolmates before a science teacher pinned him against a wall. 
None of the injuries appeared to be life­threatening. A fifth youngster suffered bumps and bruises. 
"He doesn't even know who it was he shot," sheriff's Deputy Terry Cragg said. "There was not a hate thing. The 13 
RUSSIA 
Chechnya capital receives ultimatum 
year-old dropped the emptied, 9mm semiauto­matic handgun as he was approached by science teacher Ronnie Holuby, who also serves as the safety officer at Fort Gibson Middle School, Superintendent Steve Wilmoth said. Holuby grabbed the boy's arms and pinned him against a brick wall. 
The small, slender boy was taken to court for a closed, 15-minute arraignment, walking solemnly between two deputies and keeping his head down. 
His name was not released. No details were released on the arraign­ment or on what charges the boy faces. 
Authorities said they were not aware of any previous trouble involv­ing the boy and did not know who owned the gun. The youngster belonged to a teen Christian group and other school organiza­tions, students said. 
"He seemed like a real­ly nice person," said Justine Hurst, a 13-year­old eighth-grader. "He had a lot of friends." 
"Some people say he's crazy. but he's really not. He comes from a really good family," said Kanjaowah Bowley, another eighth-grader. 
Students had gathered outside the middle school 
estimate between 15,000 and 40,000 remain -are old or infirm. 
"We had to flee when they made such an ultima­tum during the previous war. Last time they also said that those who stayed in the city were militants. It turned out that many of them were elderly people who had nowhere to go, and exactly the same thing will happen now," Zina Ferzauli, a refugee from Grozny staying in the vil­lage of Dolinsky, nine miles to the northwest. 
Russian forces easily swept down across Chechnya's northern plains when the military campaign began in September, and now con­trol more than half of and were waiting to enter for the start of classes when the boy walked up at around 7:45 a.m. and started shooting, witness­es said. 
School officials, given safety training following the Columbine High School massacre, rushed the students to the safety of the cafeteria. 
Some students thought the popping came from fireworks left from a state high school football championship game that Fort Gibson lost 46-0 Saturday. 
"We heard one girl screaming. We saw smoke coming from the cement," eighth-grader Greg Pruitt said. 
Chechnya. 
But the rebels have be,m stiffening resistance as fed­eral troops tighten their ring around the capital. 
Federal forces now claim to have blockaded Grozny, yet Chechen fighters can bo seen freely moving in and out at night. An Associated Press reporter outside Grozny had no trouble traveling through the wide­ly spaced Russian positions around the city. 
Routes for travel are explored by Chechen scouts and then become common knowledge among local residents. Hussian troops rarely changn their positions or venturo out­side checkpoints, making their hold on the area largely symbolic. 
Associated Press 
DOLINSKY 

Russian planes dropped leaflets nn Chechnya's besieged capital Monday, warning residents and rebels to flee before fed­eral forces launch a mas­sive attack to smash Grozny into submission. 
The Russian military has been raining bombs and artillery on the city for weeks but has been hesitant to risk storming it, for fear that street battles would cause the kind of' heavy casualties that Russia suffered in Crozny in the 1994-96 war. 
Now the Russians are threatening to unleash 
their biggest artillery and air bombardment on the city so far. Russian forces dumped leaflets on Grozny on Monday telling rebel fighters and civil­ians that they had until Saturday to flee. The niers said a safe corridor would be open until Dec. 11 to let civilians escape. 
"Persons who stay in the city will be consid­ered terrorists and ban­dits and will be destroyed by artillery and aviation. There will be no further negotiations. Everyone who does not leave the cit.y will be destroyed," the leat1ets said. 
It was unclear who could or would leave. Most of the civilians in Crozny -the Russians 
page 6 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, December 7, 199_9 
NASA engineers begin to accept Lander's silence 
By JOHN NOBLE WILFORD 
Associated Press 
PASADENA, Calif. 
Just about now, if things had gone differently, Wayne Zimmerman would have been waiting expectantly and ner­vously for the Mars Polar Lander's mechanical arm to start digging in the planet's cold ground, searching for evi­dence of water ice. 
He was the lead engineer for electronics on the team that developed and tested the 6.5­foot arm. 
As the grim reality of the lan­der's apparent loss settled in Monday, Zimmerman paid a visit to the "Mars yard" here at the Jot Propulsion Laboratory. There, on a bed of simulated red Mars soil. stood a mock-up of the vehicle that has been assembled to head out in 2001 for the next landing attempt. Its robot arm was almost identical to the one on the ill-starred polar lander. 
The visit was an occasion for mourning and reflection as well as worry that the $165 million mission's failure could prompt public and Congressional criti­cism of the entire 
Mars exploration program, including calls for severe cut­backs. The fear perhaps arises because the space agency's sci­ence programs have been vul­nerable to budget cuts ln the past. .. 
The gloom was doubly thick because in September the lan­der's companion craft, Mars Climate Orbiter, which cost $125 million, was lost as it approached the planet. 
"We're all just crestfallen," Zimmerman said. "Man, it's 
"Man, it's tough when you put that much work for years into designing and testing; it's hard to lose it all. " 
Wayne Zimmerman lead engineer for Mars Polar Lander 
tough when you put that much work for years i.nto designing, building and testing; it's hard to lose it all. Not to have an opportunity to do that science is pretty depressing." 
Indeed, with each passing hour, little hope remained that flight controllers would estab­lish radio contact with the missing polar lander. A listen­ing opportunity early this morning, the sixth since the spacecraft's landing attempt on Priday, again produced nothing but silence. 
Another effort, perhaps the last on which controllers are pinning much hope, was planned for early Tuesday. 
Mission officials said they had also abandoned much hope of receiving transmissions from the two small probes that were supposed to penetrate the Martian ground at about the same time of the lander's arrival. They were designed to examine the subsurface for signs of water ice. 
The search for water by both the probes and the lander was an effort to answer the con­suming qtiestion about Mars: Could life have arisen there in the past'? Water is considered essential for life, and other research has shown that some water ice and vapor exists on Mars and might have been 
more abundant and in liquid form earlier. 
The mission's apparent fail­ure has been acutely painful for Zimmerman and others who have invested years, sometimes decades, in Mars exploration. Dr. Richard Zurek, the chief scientist for the -project, found himself a three-time loser. He was also chief scientist for the lost climate orbiter and an investigator on the $1 billion Mars Observer, which disap­peared mysteriously in 1993 and it arrived at the planet. 
Dr. David Paige, one of the leading mission scientists from the University of California at Los Angeles, has lost years of work and millions of dollars in instruments on three separate failed missions to Mars over the last decade. Ile had been hop­ing to follow in the footsteps of his father as a polar explorer. 

ttolidey ttrielth Plan 
l. 'V!Ztirmini a timi frami whin your schid-5. ~tag strong with 2-3 days of stringth uli may b.~.~l~~i::ru_pt!Zd. training. Now is not thi timi to add weight 
2. ttnty~fljati g hallingis. or sissions.
.~~::%Mi 
i.fl. ~.i~nqm1·~,,r i
-~];•-a11rnim 
3. 6~Wrif~··c~~c.ti cs or 
, ··""'-· of iach.,day.
i.rz. minimum numbrzr of workouts 
7. Maki suri to gct som{l rest. 
4. Plan aerobic activitiis that maintain 
For More t, . Contact: RecSports -1-6100
raisi your fitniss livil. 
www.nd.edu/~recsport 

Tuesday, December 7, 1999 The Ohserver . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 

Got news? Call 1-5323. 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents George Frideric Handel's 
IWESSIAH 
University of Notre Dame Chorale & Chamber Orchestra 
8:00 p.m. Thursday, December 9, 1999 
Friday, December 10, 1999 Washington Hall 
Open to the public. Admission: $6 Reserved Seats; $3 Students & Seniors Tickets available at Lafortune Box Office, 631-8128. 
SabreTech convicted in plane crash 
"I sincerely hope that in 
Associated Press 

some small measure today's verdict provides a sense of
MIAMI 

comfort, relief and justice,"In the first criminal case of 
said federal prosecutor Guy
its kind in the United States, Lewis. "The good news is that an aircraft maintenance com­. the flying public can sleep a pany was convicted Monday of little easier tonight."
mishandling the oxygen canis­
After deliberating for 13 
ters blamed for the cargo hold hours over three days, a fed­
fire that caused the 1996 
eral jury convicted SabreTech.
ValuJet crash in the 
which is no longer in business, Everglades. 
of causing the transportationTwo employees of the main­
of hazardous materials and 
tenance company, SabreTech, failing to provide training in were acquitted. 
handling hazardous materials.
The company was acquitted of 
after takeoff from Miami, 
conspiracy.
killing all 110 people on SabreTech's maintenance
board. 

operations have been sold byProsecutors said SabreTech 
the parent company,
sacrificed safety for the sake Sabreliner, which could face a
of profits and rushed the 
fine of $4.5 million and be 
transport of the canisters to 
forced to make restitution toavoid financial penalties for the families of the crash's 110 
not meeting ValuJet's dead­
victims.
lines. 

Former employees Daniel 
Gonzalez and Eugene 
Florence were acquitted of 
conspiracy and charges they 
lied on repair records. 
Gonzalez, who could have l'aced 1 O years i.n prison if convicted, showed little emo­tion when the verdict was -read, but his wife smiled broadly. Florence, who could have faced 15 years in prison, broke into a wide smile. 
SabreTech lawyer Ken 
Quinn said the guilty verdicts 
would be appealed. -The company acknowledged 
that mistakes were made but 
said they did not amount to 
crimes. Defense attorneys also 
suggested that electricai prob­
lems on the plane may have 
caused the crash. 
"There was nothing reckless 
or willful about the handling 
of these oxygen generators," 
Quinn said. 
Gwendolyn Marks of Miami, 
whose son Philmore died in 
the crash, said after the 
mechanics were acquitted: "I 
take it as a dagger in the 
heart. I am angry. I'm very 
angry." 
The case was the first in 
which a maintenance compa­
ny faced criminal charges in 
connection with an American 
air disaster. 
The case involved 144 oxy­
gen generators removed by 
SabreTcch from other ValuJet 
planes. 
The canisters are usually 
installed over seats to supply 
oxygen to the masks that drop 
when a plane's cabin loses 
pressure; they were being car­
ried as cargo on the DC-9 on 
May 11, 1996. 
Five cartons of the genera­
tors, which resemble shaving 
cream cans, were delivered to 
the ill-fated flight without the 
required safety caps or any 
markings indicating the canis­
ters were hazardous. ValuJet 
was not allowed to carry haz­
ardous cargo. Some of the 
generators were also packed 
in a paper-towel box. 
Crash investigators blamed 
lhe generators for starting a 
2,200-degree fire that spread 
to the jet's cabin and melted 
aluminum seat tracks and 
plastic tray tables. 
Florence, a former mechan­
ic, signed a work card stating 
he had installed caps on tho 
generators, but ho admitted 
days after the crash that he 
had not. The caps keep a lir­
ing pin from hilting an 
aspirin-size percussion cap. 
The firing pins are activated 
by pulling a string, and 
mechanics secured some of 
the canisters simply by wrap­
ping the string around tho 
body of the canister or taping 
the string down. 
Gonzalez, a vice president of 
maintenance, was accused of 
pressing Flore.nee and other 
mechanics to sign the paper­
work in order to beat dead­
lines and gP-t the plane _in tlrn 
air. 

Prosecutors also said he 
signed paperwork for a de­
icing task that allegedly was 
not actually done on an 
Aserca Airlines jet in 1995. 
That claim was used to back 
up the chargp, that SabrnTech 
lied, rushed work and skipped 
assignments. 
Another former SabroTnch 
mechanic charged in thn case, 
Mauro Valenzuela, is a fugi­
tive. 

Yalu.Jct, which has changed 
its name to AirTran. and 
SabrcTcch have settled most 
lawsuits brought by victims' 
families, but a few am set for 
trial. 
--~~-----------------------------­

page 8 The Observer . Y2K NEWS Tuesday, December 7, 1999 
South Bend's airport, banks prepare for Y2K 
By ERIN LaRUFFA News Writer  port's computer system would arise from equipment that reads years as only two digits. Thus,  which is responsible for the safe­ty of domestic aviation. "I don't anticipate any prob­ Even the Notre Dame athletic department was concerned with the possibility of having to trans­ eign countries, such as those in South America, might not be. "We're very unsure how far  
To relieve the public's fear over the safety of air travel on. Jan. 1, John Sch alliol of the South Bend/Michiana Regional Airport will welcome the New Year in an airplane above South  that equipment would interpret the year 2000 as the year 1900. The airport staff began preparing for the millennium two years ago. Tests imply that all systems will function normal­ly in· the year 2000, according to  lems whatsoever," Schalliol said. port the football The Federal T r a d e Commission "We're all prepared. echoes Schalliol's We 're looking forward for optimism "The FAA does this year to end so we  team and marching b a n d around Jan. L if the team had been  along they are," Walsh said. Air travel is not the only area of concern for many people in regards to Y2K. Many Americans also fear that records of their bank accounts will disappear if their bank's  
Bend. Schalliol's wife, members of  Schalliol. "Wo found a few systems that  not expect the year 2000 com­ can put this behind us."  invited to a bowl  computer system fails. Financial institutions, however, do not  
the media and other airport staff will join him in the air. "[The airport] will be line even if we don't receive electricity," Schalliol said. "Everything will be normal."  needed to be replaced anyway," he said. However, none of the systems critical to the airport's functioning needed replacing. The a.irport will have-.to run additional tests on equipment  puter problem to game,Skip Yoderaffect domestic air s a i d travel," according Notre Dame Federal Credit Union Walsh. to the FTC's offi­-"People cial Web site. are very, Despite assurances from air­very skeptical," he said. "I would  anticipate problems. "We're all prepared. We're looking forward for this year to end so we can put this behind us," said Skip Yoder of the Notre Dame Federal Credit Union.  
Generators \\ill power tho air­ such as fire trucks and commu­ ports and the government, many  personally be very concerned  NDFCU met federal regula­ 
port in the unlikely event that  nication devices shortly after  travelers are avoiding flying on  traveling in ...  foreign countries  tions for  Y2K preparedness  
the local electrical company can­ midnight on Jan. 1. Schalliol will  Jan. 1, according to Pat •Walsh,  [on .Jan.1]."  before the June deadline, and  
not. Potential problems in the air- then file a re port with the Federal Aviation Administration,  vice president of business ser­vices at Anthony Travel.  While domestic airlines ar_e prepared for Y2K, certain for- has tested its computing system repeatedly.  

SMC 
continued from page 1 
the event of cussions. 

"You can n ,·ff know every­thing that is g g to happen," Cooper said. · t we've done as much as a one else and have adequate! repared the campus." 
For students w ing the switch on tli computers when they . from winter break, the r system failure is low. Since th network is only three years old, nearly all the network software and hardware came to campus Y2K compliant. 
"Being behind in technology actually worked to our advan­tage," Cooper said. "When we networked the campus, we backed into a Y2K solution." 
The Y2K team, who sur­veyed the campus hardware and softivare for Y2K compati­bility, found that most comput­er systems brought to campus by students were Y2K compli­ant. 
All Macintosh computers are Y2K compliant, and computers equipped to support Microsoft Windows 95 and 98 should suffer only minimal effects. 
"Students may need to upgrade BIOS (Basic 
Input/Ouput Systems). but since they are bringing in rela­tively 'new systems, it shouldn't bo a problom," Cooper said. 
Students who do experience Y2K diffi-. culty or 
who are "Being behind in Response Team 
"Power is a big one, because 
attempt­technology actually that will be on 
it is ab_solutely necessary to 
ing to call Dec. 31, 
keep research animals in the
worked to our 

prepare 1999, to monitor 
Fryman center alive, as well as 
their per­.advantage." Saint Mary's for . 
refri mpus with 
s o n a l any potential 
a uable sp . just 
corn put-problems.
Joel Cooper S · two examples,"
"We purpose! 
Favorite.

director, Saint Mary's 
set up a pro 

"Luckily, we are the only unit 
lnfonnation Technology that will 
in the area that can generate 
pa tc for Windo www.microsoft._c tact Information Technolog obtain them. 
Additionally, resident com­puter consultants are compil­ing a list of instructions for students that will be available on the Web upon returning from break. 
"The only thing that we're really telling students to do is unplug their machines," Cooper said. "We do not antic­ipate a great deal of difficul­ty." 
ln the event that Y2K does halt normal operations, the Y2K team -comprised· of Information Technology, Human Resources, Security, 
Dining Services, and Facilities representatives -drafted a contingency plan that outlines 
Y2K

steps to follow in case opera­tions are interrupted. 
continued from page l

The contingency plan includes an 
essential needs of the
Emergency 
University running. 
protect themselves and the University, students should unplug everything before they leave for break. In that case, if power is lost, University gener­ators can focus on the impor­tant power needs at Notre Dame. He also stressed testing 
personal computers for  pli­ 
ance by using th  ,2K  
disks available in  
tion center a  
copies ofim  

ector of es at the OIT 
suggests that stu­dents should ask the OIT help desk about Y2K. He points out that "there is a low chance of problems with data files, such as saved texts written on Word or WordPerfect." 
"In general, the bigger the company, the better the chance that the company will have taken precautions," Langhorne said. "The older the version [of a program], the more likely the problems." "The two 

many, le as 
·.-e be home 
'l.J,;if'P'l•..,.,Jes that night," 
. "We'll be here to 
1tor any problems that will occur, but we don't expect anything to happen." 
Should operations be inter­rupted, there is a possibility that the academic calendar could be delayed. For informa­tion regarding the status of campus following Jan. 1, 
2000, students mav call (219} questions
University has "Hopefully, it will be 
284-5245 after Jari. 10, 2000. we all
also been busy

They may also check Saint making careful seamless to the campus if have," said Mary's Y2K Web site at lists of who will we lose power because Favorite, www.saintmarys.edu/-y2k. " a r e :
be on campus all the students' needs
But the best advice? Sit back 
when the mil­'When I 
and relax on New Year's Eve. will be turned offbecause leave my
lennium hits,

"We've done our home­and what they ofbreak." office, will work," Cooper said. "Business my com­
will need. "For is expected to run smoothly." 

instance, there puter know
Mike Favorite
will be two its 2000 
associate director of
basketball and not teams on cam­Y2K compliance 1900,' and 
its own power," he said. "However, any day we are only producing 30 percent of what we need." 
The rest must come from out­side sources. 
"Hopefully, it will be seamless to the campus if we lose p(?wer," Favorite said, "because all the students' power needs will be turned off because of break." 
T h e 


pus because there is a game on in the first couple days of January," he said. 
The department of Y2K com­pliance created contingency plans to better prepare for the unknown effects of Y2K. The plans are designed in three phases based on the level of danger the new year will actu­ally present. 
Phase three, or the disaster possibility, calls for Notre Dame to assist the needs of the Michiana community in case of an emergency outside of cam­pus. 
Favorite will have some peo­ple on campus at midnight to assess any immediate prob­lems. Then a full team of spe­cialists, including an OIT staff, will fix or replace anything in tlre days leading up to the spring semester. 
"Eventually, people will come to their labs and classrooms, and these lesser problems will be reported to us as they are discovered," he said. 
All computer clusters will also be checked from Jan. 1 to the beginning of the spring semester. 
Favorite suggested that to 'will it 
accept that and continue to function, or will it reject that?"' 
Favorite suggests that the problem of the date on comput­ers can be dealt with in two easy ways after New Year's Day. 
If a computer will not accept a date of 2000, it should be set to 1972, the last calendar year that lines up exactly the same as 2000 will be. 
Questions arose about items other than computers, and Y2K's effects on them. "Say I have a new car with a date sys­tem telling you when the last time you serviced your car was, and the ye·ar 2000 comes," explained Favorite. "The car might think it hasn't been ser­viced in 100 years. We don't know what [these kinds of things] will mean." 
Favorite explained that VCH.s, TVs, cars and other common items all passed inspections across the country, so the prob­lem may be more limited to computers. 
The problem for Favorite and Langhorne is that Y2K means a different thing for each system. There isn't one way to fix Y2K. 


Tuesday, Dccembr.:r;7~..~1~9~99~==================~Ti;_"h~e~O~bs~er~v~er~.~IN~T~E~R~N~/\=T~l~O~N=A=L=N=E==W=S===================-========--=--=-===~::-:page 9 
Maybe one day we will sell cors~ food ood evefVthing else you need. But right now, it's groot dook on tBxtbooks every day. You can sove _up to 40%, and you'H get your books in l to 3days. Not that you would, but don't sweat using ocredit cord. VorsityBooks.com is 100% guaranteed secure. Try saying that obout onew SUV. 
SAVE UP TO 40% ON TEXTBOOKS. 
GOP rivals participate in debate 
Associated Press 
PIIOENIX 
After selling themselves through commnrcials and sparring via the media. the Hepublican presidential candi­cl ates 
finally got a chancti to qu,~s­lion onn another. 
/\ n d George W. Bush gClt u sharper 

answer to Bush 
one ques­
tion than he oxpBcted. 
Moslly th11 candidates' ques­tions prompt11d each othHr to launch into stump speech rccitalions during their debate Monday night. Hut when the Texas governor asked S_en. Orrin llatch of Utah a questmn, it boomeranged on him. 
Bush, participating in a debate the Arizona Hepublican Party itrrnnged on his behalf aft11r llrn governor skipped an earli11r candidate meeting, cited his work to reach out to minorily voters and asked Hatch about his own efforts. 
!latch complimented Bush, but Uum offered his view of the candidatt,s' comparative levels of nxpnricncc. 
"My only problem with you governor is you've only had four, and you're going into your fifth year or governorship in a constitutionally weak gov­nrnorship. J\nd, frankly, I real­ly believe that you need more experience bnrore you become prnsident of tlw United States. That's why I'm thinking of you as a vice presidential candi­date," the senator said. 
As the audience of l ,:mo at Lim Orpheum Theater -once 
the stage for vaudeville acts ­
burst out in laughter, !latch 
poured it on. 
"Just think. Ronald Heagan picked your father because he had foreign policy experience," the senator said, referring to formAr President Bush. "Somebody suggested the other day that you should pick me because I have foreign poli­cy experience. They got_ it all wrong. I should be president; you should have eight years with me and boy, you'd make a heck of a president after eight years." 
Bush laughed himself as the audience again erupted. 
The candidate questions were one of the few novelties in the group's second debate in four days. Another was the participation of home state Sen. John McCain, who appeared via satellite TV from Boston because of a busy cam­paign schedule. 
The session lasted about 15 minutes more than its allotted hour. During that time, the candidates promised safer schools, lower taxes and a more disciplined foreign policy for Americans if' they seize the White House from Democrats. 
"My plan says less power to Washington, not more," Bush said. 
Conservative activist Gary Bauer, said allowing religion into the schools would lead to better-behaved children. He spoke hours after a school shooting in Fort Gibson, Okla., left four students injured and underscored concerns about school violence across the country, another contender, 
"I don't think it's a gun prob­lem," Bauer said. "I think this is a problem of the heart and soul." 
Former ambassador Alan Keyes said political action 
committees should not be 
allowed to contribute to cam­
paigns. "If you cannot walk 
into a ballot box and cast a 
vote, you cannot give a dollar," 
he said. 

In a question directed at 
Bush, publisher Steve Forbes 
asked the governor, a former 
oil man, about what he would 
do to keep fuel prices low dur­
ing New Hampshire's cold win­
ters. 

Bush said he would encour­
age exploration and alternative 
fuels, and said: "Governments 
don't control the price of oil, at 
least not in America." 
The minute the debate 
ended, Forbes' surrogates 
phoned reporters in 
Washington and headed into 
the media center at the theater 
to pan Bush's response. 
The criticism highlighted a difficulty facing Forbes: How to criticize the front-runner with­out drawing voter ire for nega­tive campaigning. 
Right after the debate, Bauer's campaign sent out a fax criticizing Forbes' com­ments about Social Security, calling the publisher's plans "a too-good-to-be-true get-rich scheme that promises younger Americans millions while jeop­ardizing current benefits." 
McCain's last-minute partic­ipation in the debate hinted at a political undercurrent ebbing through Arizona. 
While McCain is the state's senior senator and was re­elected in 1998 with about 70 percent of the vote, Gov. Jane Hull is backing Bush and her son Mike runs his state cam­paign. 
The state's largest newspa­per, the Arizona Republic, also recently questioned whether McCain was fit to be president because of his admitted hot temper. 
PUERTO Rico 
Puerto Rican independence revived 
circumstances," said the
Associated Press 
white-bearded Berrios in an interview at the beachfront
VIEQUES camp he runs with a military

Camping out amid half­
discipline. "The fact that weburied bombs and the ruins of have held the most powerful
army tanks, one determined 
Navy in the world at bay forband of Puerto Ricans is aim­seven months has broken theing for more than the expul­
feeling of impotence among
sion of the U.S. Navy from Puerto Ricans." 
Vieques island. Their goal is Berrios, who is also a sena­to revive the cause of Puerto tor in the
Rican inde­
territo­

pendence. 
ry's legis­

"This whole "We are trying to avoid a 
1at u re,

standoff with 
confrontation. " argues
the Navy is 
that thatpart of some­sense of

thing larger, Herman Wlrshlng 
power­

we hope," 
U.S. Marshalls Service 
s a i d Independence Party chief Ruben Berrios, who has gath­ered protesters in a camp inside the Navy's Vieques bombing range, thwarting 
U.S. military exercises. 
The protests began in April when stray bombs killed civil­ian security guard David Sanes on the range, which the Navy has used for combat training since the 1940s. 
Sanes' death ignited a smol­dering resentment of the Navy, long perceived as an arrogant neighbor by Vieques' 9,300 residents as well as many Puerto Ricans on the main island. 
By leading a protest against the Navy, Berrios and other independence leaders hope to parlay that resentment into support for their cause ­though many fishermen, labor leaders and protesters don't support independence. 
."We are trying to take advantage of the time and the 
lessness 
is why 
m any 
Puerto 

Ricans ignore nationalistic feelings when they vote on the island's political status. Only 3 percent of voters sup­ported seeking independence in a December 1998 plebiscite. 
Several miles away from Berrios' camp, protesters from another group locked the gates outside the Navy checkpoint that guards the bombing range. "We now control who goes in and out of that gate," said activist Roberto Rabin, adding that only civilian employees would be allowed to enter. 
The U.S. Marshals Service sent officers to the island to convince them to unlock the gates, said local director Herman Wirshing. 
"We are trying to avoid a confrontation," Wirshing said. 
He would not say if mar­shals planned to remove the chains and lock. 

At these we 
il's too bad I cars. 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE BSERVER Tuesday, December 7, 1999page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Norrc D,m,, IN 46~56 
EDITOR !N CHIEF Michelle Krupa 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogero  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Petelle  

NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan VrEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen SPORTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler 
SCENE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAINI MARY'S EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalum 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Bryan Lutz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Bret Huelat SYSTEMS AnM!NlSTRATOR: Michael Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushto 
CONTROLLER: Timothy Lane GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL lNF0..............631-7471 FAX...........................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING ..................................... 631-6900 / 8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EorroR/AssT. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................63I-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................ 631-4 543 
observer.sporrs. I@nd.edu 
SCENE.......... , .............................................. 631-4540 
observer.scene.l@nd.edu SAINT MARYS.............................................631-432/4 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ................ .631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for
weather for up-to-the 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advenise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rates ofprim ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published alter 
to meet the editors and 
scaff
August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the 
Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's 
College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration ofeither . institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of 
the majoriry ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, 
Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. 
Commentaries, lerters and columns present the views 
of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe 
Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Edi ror must be signed and must include 
concact information. 
QUl:stions regarding Observerpolicies shouldbe direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMichelk Krupa. 

Last week, tens of thousands of people went to Seattle to peacefully protest the erosion of democracy and the resulting increase in corporate power. Both of which are veiled under the rhetoric of "free trade" or "globalization" and 
Aaron Krieder 
are being promoted by the World Trade Organization (WTO). 

Progressive
Thousands of people 

student
wanted to show the 

alliance
world that we would not stand aside.as corporations are given the right to sue and prevent governments from enacting laws protecting the environment, labor and human rights. The WTO submits the laws of our nation, our state and our city to the rulings of an un-elected body. So how did the police react in this land of milk and "democracy?" The police riot­ed. They used tear gas in abundance, pepper spray, and rubber bullets. 
Yes, RUBBER BULLETS. A friend of mine was hit with one. One activist got shot in the head. 
The wro talks started on Tuesday. So that day thousands of people protested, blockading the building where the meet­ing was and the delegates' hotel. The protesters locked-down and delayed the meeting, but the police used tear gas and had to leave. That day the AFL-CIO orga­nized the largest protest with 50,000 people. That night the mayor declared a state of emergency, a 7 p.m. to 7:30 a.m. curfew, a 46 block no-protest zone and made it illegal to sell or carry a gas mask. 
That evening some anarchists dam­aged property, explicitly targeted corpo­rations with harmful human rights and environmental policies (McDonalds). The anarchists' argument was if corporations are using their property to, say, support the military dictatorship in Burma (which many are) -would it not be bet­ter for their property to be destroyed? The media completely overplayed the property damage which was caused by 
0.5 percent of the protesters (a 100 peo­ple), and small-scale criminal activity compared to murder, rape, assault, etc. Can you compare breaking windows, spraying graffiti and setting dumpsters on fire to using tear gas on a 70-year­old woman? And it wasn't just tear gas or one 70-year-old woman. The police were the real rioters. During the next two days, people disobeyed the no­protest zone, were assaulted with gas again and 500-600 were arrested and held in jails for three· days. 
The protesters caused the WTO talks to fail. According to the media, the talks ended in disaster. It helped that Clinton is trying to regain the support of the AFL-CIO, who organized part of the protests, so that Gore will win in 2000. Here are some first-hand accounts from protesters that I received by e-mail. 
Police have been beating with riot sticks peaceful protesters who sat or laid on the ground. They have taken protest­ers who were wearing facemasks, cov­ered the inside of the mask with pepper spray and forced it back onto the per­son's face. They dragged an elderly woman across the ground by her hair and an arm. They've shot rubber bullets at ranges of a few feet and one officer pulled a real gun on protesters before other officers restrained him. In addition, police have not been arresting protesters to any extent-I heard 18 arrests the whole day -they have simply been attacking us. (Louise Auerhahn, Stanford student, referring to Tuesday's events} Just an update on what is happening here. About 2,000 people risked arrest yesterday in lockdowns or in barricades or in street theatre but very few were arrested. There were 7,8 arrests Monday, mostly in relation to the rioters ... You may all have seen the supposed "vio­lence" by some of the protesters. Let's get one thing straight: police start riots. Police incite violence. Police use tear gas, guns, wooden bullets, billy clubs, tanks {yes, they had armored vehicles) and that is who is perpetrating violence in Seattle. 
A number of times they had these 100 or so anarchists caught between build­ings and walls of police. They could easi­ly have arrested and detained this small number of people and gotten it over with. Instead they would gas them and let them go. Then trap them again, use gas against them again and again let them go. The cops made no arrests (that I know of) until late Tuesday night though the skirmishing was going on from 3:00 p.m. until 9:30 p.m. 
The police were using these people as extras. It was staged. I believe also the police had their own people in there, encouraging people to break stuff -if people think I am exaggerating, I saw supposed protesters screaming. Later, when everything was over, the same people tackled other protesters and put handcuffs on them. 
At 6 p.m., they issued a state of emer­gency. At that point. they had pushed the 100 people outside the city limits, so the police went outside the limits too, and they started using gas in that area, spraying gas in the neighborhoods where the regular people live. I am not exag­gerating. The police were relentless. 
I was sitting in a little coffee shop called Rauhaus. They were shooting "rubber" bullets at the glass. I picked up a dozen of the things in a few square feet. They were also shooting this paint that you can only see with a florescent light. They would paint anyone and everyone and then go hunt for them. 
Aaron Krieder ia a sociology graduate student and president ofthe Progressive Student Alliance. He received the information for this column from a Portland student, Jim Desyllas. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 
I SPEAK ENGLISH 
BUT I THINK IN 


S) 

iI 
____..i.,________., 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"If only we'd stop trying to be happy, we could have a pretty good time. " 
Edith Warton author 

,--------------------------------------------~------­
VIEWPOINT 
OTHE 
Tuesday, December 7, 1999 BSERVER page 11 
Where will YOU be Wednesday night? 

Whcrn will you be on Wedrrnsclay night aftnr your last clay of' classes'' I imagine quite a fow of you have big plans to hil lhc lncnl drinking establishments or 1wrhaps Turtle Laura Creek and 
Antkowiak 
Coll11ge 
Park. Or 
maybu you flight to life 
will just sit 
around 
playing 
Nintnndo. 
But onH mnn, Mr. D.1-1. Fleenor. will be at the maximum security prison in Michigan City gi•lting his last shave and a hair cul, preparing lo die al the hands of the slate of lnditma. Somewhoro hn has family and f'rinnds, oven concerned students und citiZflns, who may hav~ writ­ten to him or visited him while on death row. They will be anx­iously praying that at lhe last second Governor Prank ()'Bannon will pul a hold in Mr. Fllmnor's execution. 
Especially when it is politically unpopular to be "son on crime," it is admittedly diflicult to stir up enthusiastic and widesprcad oppositinn to the death penalty. Even among citizens all{] public figures wlw arc ardently opposed to abortion. one finds many just as committed to capi­tal punishment. One can justify­the defenseless little IJaby much more tHL'iily than the murderer. 
IU I. Fleenor killed two people. Ile is mentally retarded and has abusnd alcohol. lie and his wife sought lmlp for his habits just days bnfore thn murders occurred, but treatment was denit1d. A recent Indiana law bars the death penalty for the mentally retarded, but this will not affect Mr. Fleenor, who wa'> sentenced before the law's pas­sage. These circumstances do not change the fact the D.11. Fleenor committed murder. and that murder is wrong, but they should challenge us to think about how our society uses the death penalty. 
We can expross opposition from several ptirspectives. Death is final and irrnvcrsible. The death pimalty is Hxpensive, and when considering the legal costs involvfld, it is more expensivfl than holding someone in prison for lifo. Do you want your tax dollars supporting this act? 
If' you support the death penal­ty because you think the perpe­trator of a heinous crime should suffer, consider this: several · years ago, Maryland executed a man named John Thanos. Shortly before his death, Thanos rmnarked that death was a bet­ter punishment than sitting in a coll watching "Oprah" for the rest of his life. So why not let him watch "Oprah'!" And if you defino this as suffering but aren't so inclined tu it. why not let him "live with his guilt" and givn him a chance to think about it? Why not giv(l him a drnncc to us11 the prison libraries or chap­lains and make something meaningful out of his life, or to turn himself back to God'? 
Wu start tr1iading on sensitive ground when we consider the loved om~s of victims. If someone kilkd one of my family mern­bBrs, would I want him lo suf­
fer? Would I want him dead, so 
he could never kill again'! 
Absolutnly. As an instinct, I don't 
think that can be helped. But 
rememb•w the movie "Dead Man 
Walking" and how one parent 
changed his mind on capital 
punishm,mt'' 
What is remarkable "but not unusual" in Fleenor's case is that both thn daughter and the granddaughter of Mr. and Mrs. llarlow, the murder victims, tes­tified that they opposed the death ponalty and tl1at the dead couple would also not wish its imposition. Indiana's lawyers nevertheless did what they are paid to do, and the state will get its revenge on Fleenor in the wee hours ofThursday morning unless, by some miracle, we can mako il stop. So is D.11. Fleenor being put to death in order to alleviate the sufferings of the vic­tims' family or because they want assurance he can never hurt them again? Clearly not. First the Harlows were dragged through 15 years of trials and appeals. Now this death may add to their anguish. In these cases tho aggressor and the suprnme judge is the state. Does something strike you as wrong about this? 
Nations and states used to exe­cute with the guillotine, by hang­ing or by burning at the stake. Once great public spectacles, we now call them barbaric. Just because most execution in the 
U.S. is now carried out by lethal injection or the electric chair, just because it is a little more sanitary and is kept within the walls of a high security prison, is execution any less wrong? 
For those of you who call your­selves pro-life, I especially encourage you to think long and hard about any support you may have for capital punishment. One line I've heard before is that people who commit murder are no longer human. But consider 
D.H. Fleenor. Somewhere he has a mother; she turned him in for his crime and pleaded for his life. He has a body temperature of98.6 degrees Fahrenheit. He has a wife and children that he once held in his arms. Perhaps he awaited word of his fate with cold and clammy hands. Perhaps he lies awake at night and won­ders what it will be like to gei strapped down and wait to die and how much it will hurt. Maybe he cries when he thinks about what events in his chil­dren's lives he will miss. Maybe he wishes more than anything that he could take back that night in 1984. Or maybe he doesn't, and this is where our faith is most put to the test. 
Some will say that college stu­dents are apathetic. We live in a bubble. and unless we are forced to do otherwise, we will continue to just sit around drink­ing or watching "Party of' Five," or maybe doing some studying because we'll fail ifwe don't. 
Can we prove them wrong? 
Laura Antkowiak is a senior government major and co-presi­dent ofNotre Dame Right to Life. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
In defense of the Guard 
Some justjealous 

I am writing this letter in response to Mr. DiPasquale's letter to the editor in Friday's Observer about the Irish Guard. As a former member of the band, 1had a role that required I work closely to the Guard on a regular basis. As a manager, I was responsible for marching 
This is in response to Friday's lettM to the edi­tor "The Irish Guard must go." In August, I had the pleasure of experiencing a week of Guard tryouts. Despite the fact that I was not one of the live new lucky recruits to carry on this time-honored tradition, I do have a deep respect for them. 
The many people that approciato the Irish Guard far outweigh the few skeptics, such as Antonio DiPasquale, the author of Friday's letter. The concept of "Guard brutality" has been com­pletely blown out of pro­portion. The skeptics would have you believe that Oscar de la Hoya is in a kilt and throwing combinations to innocent victims on his way to the Stadium. Well, he's not, nor would he make the height requirement any­way. I seriously doubt that any of the spectators who were moved out of the path of the band arc sporting any new black and blues. 
The Guard represents our University the best that they can. Skeptics who write degrading let­ters about the Guard are the only ones who tar-· nish this Golderr Dome of 

Keep the Guard! 
10 yards in front of the Guard and clearing a path for them and the rest of the hand. In doing this job for two years, I gained a real understanding of the nature of the work the guard does. 
As someone who wit­nessed the activity of the band from a van­tage point much clos­er than Mr. DiPasquale, I strongly believe the Guard does an invaluable service to the band. The guards' primary responsibility is to cre­ate a safe pathway for the band io march through. This requires moving people and objects out of the way along the route. Even though 
_campus security and l demand people 
move beyond the established boundaries, people often move in front of those barriers to get a closer view. In that case, it is the responsibility of the Guard to move them. I have seen numerous examples where the Guard have gone out of their way to remove those such people Vvith extreme care. I have seen the Guard also take special con­cern of those more fragile individuals such as the elderly, children and disabled persons. The Guard does an extremely difficult jol! with class, dignity and respect. 
The specific concerns presented by Mr. 
ours. In other words, Antonio, your comments 
arc about as usoful as a 
rubber crutch at a polio ward. 
Some peopl,~ would have you bnlieve that all the Irish Guard does is "screw around." Any of the 40-some students who were with me in August would tell you the exact opposite. They would speak of a demanding week of hard work. I know for a fact that the members of the Irish Guard fully appreci­ate the many hours of hard work that the other members of the band put forth. 
The Irish Guard adds unique character to our band. It is one of the many great distinctions that separates our band from others and makes it the best in tho nation. It is my contention that Friday's disparaging let­ter was written because of one hard, undeniable fact. 
Antonio, to quote your beloved Dillon Hall, "It's all right to be jealous!" 
Patrick Coan 
Senior Off Campus December 6, 1999 

DiPasquale in his letter are utterly ridiculous. It is obvious from his comments, he has never seen the Guard in action and I invite him to spend a game day with the managers to see what a diffi­cult task the Guard must accomplish. Were it not 
for the Guard we never would have made 
it out of the Independence Bowl and the Michigan game (1997) in a safe manner. In addition, I have seen the Guard got punched, spit at and hit with glass bottles while protecting the band. In all those situations, the Guard continued to 
march because of their concern for the safety of the band. I have read the letters 
in The Observer com­

plaining about the Guard and can assure Mr. DiPasquale that those who complained were told to move at least three times by cam­pus police, a band manager and the Guard before they were moved. I also don't recall any letters from elderly women who 
were knocked over by the Guard. 
I component of the marching band because of the way they accomplish a dil1icult tusk in a respectful manner. It would be u shame to remove a group ofstudenl'> so close to the heart of the marching band because of the comments of' a few ignorant individuals. 
Jeremy Herzog Junior London Program December 6, 1999 


O
THE 
page 12 BSERVER Tuesday, December 7, 1999 
MUSIC COLUMN 
Oh where, oh where did 1999 go? 
·The critics told everyone this was the 
year rock fought back. This was the year all the teenybopper hit-makers· would meet their match. This was the year it became cool again to buy an electric guitar and just jam, man! 
Well, it didn't really happen exactly like that. Amidt the new stu­dio albums from favorite rockers such as Rage Against the Machine and Red Hot Chili Peppers, there was a steady stream of attention paid to teenyboppers like Britney Spears and the Backstreet Boys. The return of rock was very much overshadowed by the presence of adolescent singers that wear more makeup than Gene Simmons. 
But if we decide to ignore the teen wave that has gulped up the music industry and watch everything else, I still don't think we have a return of 

rock music. The Woodstock '99 con­cert, plagued by unruly teenage vio­lence was dominated by testosterone­powered angst. Instead of good rock music the public was served unoriginal loud trash that would appall the great artists of this century. What would Jimi Hendrix think of Korn? Could John Lennon even imagine a more hor­rible group than Limp Bizkit? 
Sure, nn:k music is not entirely dead. Rage Against the Machine rocks hard. But they also show skill through their music and deliver a message. On "The Battle of Los Angeles,'' Tom Morello invents sounds that would make Jimmy Page proud. Zach de la Rocha warns against the dangers of oppression and racism. The Foo Fighters are carrying on the alternative tradition, even though the grunge sound has now morphed from Nirvana distortion to Beatles song craftsmanship. And Pearl Jam scored its biggest hit with the heart-wrenching cover "Last Kiss." 
In the world of rap music we karned that maybe it would be better if we all just got along and had some fun. Two boys from Detroit decided that you could be a loser and still make money ... a lot of money. Eminem's hilarious and often graphic rhymes on "The Slim Shady LP" captivated the country, while Kid Rock made everyone want to grab a hat and become a ,;Cowboy" baby! Oh yeah, one more thing; Dre is back and he is better than ever. 
What happened in the country music industry? Some more hot chicks fol­lowed Sbania '[wain's lead and sud­denly developed southern accents. There were some reports that a few dogs died, thus prompting hundreds of new songs to be written. Garth Brooks morphed into Chris Gaines and tricked even more fools into buying his albums. 
So what should we be hoping for in the future? Well for starters, how about the return of the rock opera'! ls there anybody out there that can pull it ofr? I'm not positive about that, but I would like to nominate Radiohead to take on the task. They are hard at work on a new album as we speak, but one of these days they should consider a 21st Century answer to "Tommy." 
We could also use a break from the whole Ricky Martin fiasco. He gripped the nation with his good looks and Latin grooves, but"! would rather let the Latin g.rooves come from someone like Carlos Santana. Ricky will bomb on his next album. 
We also need to stop the violence. Someone should throw Fred Durst of Limp Bizkit into one of his own mosh pits. I'm sick of watching television s.eeing girls get crushed and abused. What are we teaching young kids'? That it is all right to hurt women? That is just plain sick and wrong. What arc we accomplishing with all of this anger'? Stop for a moment and take a look at the sky. Isn't it beautiful? Stop for a moment and look at yourself in the mirror. You are alive and that should be celebrated. How about writ­ing some music that talks about love and hope'? 
Looking back on 1999, it is safe to say that there was not one act that completely dominated. There was no Alanis Morissette to annoy us for the entire year. But there was still a lot of useless noise and obnoxious teenybop­pers. But apparently that's what the public wanted. Or was that what the record executives shoved down the public's throats? We'll see fairly soon what is in store for the year 2000. But for now, sit back relax and hit me baby one more time! 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Mos Def album shows what hip-hop really has to offer 
By JESSE DANG Scene Music Critic 
Every once in awhile, a hip-hop album arrives and changes the way people listen to, and view hip-hop. Veteran hip­hop artists such as Public Enemy, Gangstarr and De La Soul, along with the modern day talents of Dr. Dre, Notorious B.LG., Kool Keith and Lauren Hill, have continuously shaped hip-hop into what it is today. The highly anticipated debut of Brooklyn native :\1os Def will add anoth­er name to that extensive list of artists that have contributed greatly to the hip­hop world. Boasting an extensive list of hip-hop's 
Ted 11uaen1 
premiere producers, Black on Both Sides 
is a truly marvelous debut for an MC that 
has graced so many other artists' tracks 
with his unrivaled flow and lyrical genius. Mos Def works with the likes of DJ Premier, Diamond, Psycho Les and 25 II Life Productions in producing an 
album that packs 
a variety of punch­
es. There is a defi­
nite difference in 
beat production 
for Black on Both Sides as compared to 


.•

l11d•a• Gfrls Muntit'he 
. _:t: ,,._ . ' •.·· iio,,#?.;_,:::-·,._,:;
Umphrey•s McGee ·.···."••·P;t'C•• r:1:oi:,:,>/ " ' 
Billy Joel Conseco . ..... 
John Mellencamp· Conileco. 
Chicago 
Gullded By Yollces Local H Umphrey•s McGee Poll Dos Ponderllna Collecc•ve Soul 
Def-1.eppard · · 
Freddy Jones Band 
TLC 
f'<iS 
coun111na crow.:·'\' 

··XV-­
Ne-CPO Netro Naaoo•s Ne1ro Dec. 10-11 House:o, Blues· Dec. I t:a ·•· .. .·. 
... ·. All•S••· Arena ··••····•a:;j:;td{;::J( Vjc Theatre 
Dec. a·, 
' ··:4.-··A•~•.-t·~••,.,,~ ­
his previous album. a duo project with 
Talib Kweli of Reflection Eternal (Mos 
Def and Talib Kweli are Black Star). The production in this case definitely compliments Mos Def's style, and helps him exem­plify the full range of his talents. The tracks on Black on Both Sides cover a range of styles, ranging from intense duets with Busta Rhymes on 
"Do It Now" and Talib Kweli on "Know 
... ru Nanson a•H Se1:
.~;.• t,.~••·•'-t of. naybem
••••••.:•-Born ••••n 
e~111bert4:1 
· 

Gc,,•1~;111tc1t,e1e:;,;sonas,rom -Che.. Las•
··· · ···'· · · century · · 
Thai," to relaxing jazz pieces reminis­cent of Digable Planets. The lead single, "Ms. Fat Booty," is a clever track that reflects Mos Defs funky narrative and is a must listen. There is even a track on water conservation, entitled "New World Water." 
All in all, Mos Defs debut for up-and­coming Rawkus Records is not a disap­pointment at all, and will inevitably draw comparisons to Lauren Hill's debut, but perhaps will not get the same amount of mainstream coverage. Tired of those "East Coast vs. West Coast vs. Dirty South. R&B infested, Thugs for Life" hip­hop cliches? Pick up Mos Defs Black on Both Sides and listen to what hip-hop REALLY has to offer. 
•

. tis En Espanol Tb•G·Ce>cle 
o.lleal 



---------· -­

C<tnec 
O
THE Tuesday, December 7, 1999 BSERVER page 13 
CONCERT REVIEW 
Gone phishin' in Cincinnati 

ALBUM REVIEW 
Originality is missing from new OLP album 
By GEORGETTE LEONARD 
Srn1e Music Critic 
Our Lady Peace's live shows are not to be missed. They arc explosive and tht~y makn covnr songs sound fresh again. Early in their career as an opon­ing band. OLP n!'tcn outperformed the headliners. As a live hand, they have lh('ir act down. i\s recording artists, Ol.1' has its act down too, but not in a good way. Our Lady Peac,!'s lhird rclci+se is dis­appointing. That's Lim word to sum up "llappinnss ... is Nol a Fish That You Cau Catch." It sounds like the band has not PvolvPd from one album to another. Their first two releases. "Naveed" and "Clumsy", foaturnd wBll-cral'U\d alter­native rock songs. Both albums rocnived a lot ol' radio play. l'rom 1995's "Starsocd" tn 1997's "Superman's Dnad" and "Automatic Flowers." "llappiness" has well-crafted su11gs loo, but it sounds like thny were pulled l'rom the same notcb'ook as "Clumsy." In some ways. that's good. since "Clumsy" was so commercially success­ful. However, truly dedicated bands expand their craft and constantly grow their sound. Think the Beatles. Think Pearl Jam. 
With Our Lady Peace, you think Bush. They have slipped into a formulaic state where each album sounds like the last. OLP has the potential of the aforemen­tioned bands, hut they arPn't living up to lheir possibilities. That's too bad, since the musicianship in this band is amazing, 
Mike Turner is an impressive gui­tarist, Duncan Coutts is a bassist with a gill l'or melody, and Jeremy Taggart is a wunderkind drummer. The guy blows others out of the water with his-talent. 
Haine Maida, OLP's [rontman, has a widP vocal range and sometimes snunds a bit like Billy Corgan of the Smashing Pumpkins. His lyrics are emotional, but half the time you don't know where he's going with them. "Happiness" is stale and devoid of a general theme to follow throughout the album. It sounds patched together and, at tit11es, Maida's vocals are overly sneering and sarcastic. 
Sure, there arc the radio hits off of "Happiness" The first track, "One Man Army," has received decent airplay and will probably be followed by "Blister," "Waited" and "Lying Awake." All of these songs are good and deserve attention, but sound like they could have been leftovers from their previous albums.. "Potato Girl" highlights Maida's searing vocal style as he loops around many different timing changes. 
"Stealing Babies," featuring jazz artist Elvin James, is perhaps the most ambitious track on the album. The song switches tempos and rock/jazz styles back and f'orth. While it is somewhat jolting and doesn't llow with the rest of tlrn album, hopefully, this kind of experimentation is a sign of things to come from the band. 
If you want to hear a great Our Lady Peace album. buy "Clumsy." A lot uf great performers have come out of Canada rec1mtly, and OLP is part of the receut wave to hit the States. 
Unfortunately, the band is dangerous­ly close to becoming extinct as alterna­tive rock's populatlty wanes. our Lady Peace doesn't deserve to be seen as the Guess Who of alternative rock, but you can't help but feel that's where they are headed if they keep sticking to the for­mula. 
·--"':~:-'.' ·. ·.:~',·,: :.· ...... •'-• ..... , 
By ANDREW JONES 
Scene M lls-k Critic 
Psychedelia arrived in Cincinnati on Friday night Fans with long dread locks. beards and girls sprinkled with sparkles all over their fuces cruised tho lot scene outsid11 of First Star Cnntnr. Nnnrly Pvcryone was partying, having a grnat time in the unusual rainy hut warm wcathnr. But nveryone was excited because thn world's grnatnst rock band was going to be strolling out on stage sometime af'tcr 7 p.m. Inside First Star, tlw buzz was even greater than outside. Most nvnryorw squinted due lo a huge cloud of smoke as they look(ld nn tow,ird the stage. Finally. the house lights went out, an enormous cheer erupted and even morn smokn rosu. Phish was about to start grooving for the second show of tlrnir Drlcember tour. And groove they did. The four piece band from Vermont proved to be Vermont Phincst as they opened the show with guitarist Trny Anastasio's composition "First Tuhn." "First Tube" never fails to bn an excellent show opener as bassist Mibi Gordon picks a definitive bass line which lays a foundation for Anastasio's mellow but staccato intro­duction. "First Tube" became a show­case of Anastasio's array of guitar effects as he triggered delay loops that repeated over and over as he nxpandml his phrasing on top of these loops. As tho song reached a climax, Anastasio's font were stomping on nfl'Pcts pedals as fast as his lightning­l'ast. fingers were producing the high­pitched tonos that sounded somewhat like a cal' revving its engine. The first snl continued to be a good pnrformance, which Phish typically dnlivers at any given show. Yet, the first sot was not typical of Phish's trademark grnat shows. The set con­tinued with crowd favorites such as Wolfman's "Brother," AC/DC "Bag" and everyone who is not a true Phish fan's favorite song, "Bouncing Around tlw Hoom." Known for their prodi­gious ability to improvise. this first set did little justice to their reputation. The j-ams of these songs were short lived and consisted of nothing special, but that certainly does not mean the band failed to convey a huge amount of energy. 
The first set came to a close with "Slave To The Traffic Light. "definite­ly the gem of the opening set. This particular version of "Slave" contrast­ed their fist set performance as key­boardist Page McConnell took advan­tage of the song's A major key and melodically improvised during most of the song. After the band plunged into the minor section of the song, they began a crescendo ever so slowly. Minute by minute, all four members clicked together to create a melodious serenity that climaxed to fill the audi­torium with cheers as loud An-astasio wailing high upon his guitar. 
As Phish took the stage for their second set, fans tossed balloons up ontothe stage that read '"Play 'It's Ice!"' but after conversing over the roar of the audience the band dove into "Last Tube," the complement to Anastasio's composition in the first set. "Last Tube" epitomized the psy­chedelic aspect of Phish as lighting director Chirs Kuroda displayed his love for "human wallpaper," sweeping over the crowd with purple and blue designs. 
Phish lifted the crowd's spirits dur­ing the second set as they performed "Limb By Limb" from their most recent album, Story of the Ghost. "Limb By Limb" included another lengthy psychedelic jam that eventu­ally evolved into a collage of sounds, nothing especially musical. Yet excite­ment ensued as the sounds segued back into the theme of "Limb by Limb." After performing "Limb by Limb" and "Last Tube" for about 45 minutes, the band continued with "Bug" and a high paced "Piper" dur­ing which percussionist Jon Fishman bashed his cymbals, the rest of the band smiling and laughing at the super fast tempo of the song. 
To conclude the show, Phish played their fans' favorite song "Harry Hood." This version of "Hood" paral­leled the exciting climax of the "Slave" in the first set Fishman, clad in his Henrietta dress, banged out the opening beats of Harry Hood, the band built to the song title in which all four members sang, "Harry!" and the crowd traditionally responded, "Hood!" After an awesome jam that included blinding lights to intensify the emotion, Anastasio lifted his cus­tom hollow body guitar over his head and manipulated his position close to speakers to produce screeches of feedback. 
Phish ended the night with an encore of the Velvet Underground's "Rock And Roll." Fans lifted their 
lighters in honor of the night's perfor­mance; the good ol' boys never disap­point. Their musicality places them above any band that performs today, and their technical genius grants them the honor of being the most respected rock musicians to last. 
If only every band could be as great as Phish. They're not out to sell albums, produce hit singles or even sell mass amounts of tickets. They're on the stage because they love what they do: playing, making great music. A huge following of people realizes Phish is different, but it's not just the different aspect of Phish that creates an attraction. It's the greatness. Great music endures; certainly Phish will endure. 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, Decerpber 7, 1999 
.. 
BASEBALL 
Mainieri inks six players 
Special 10 The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame baseball team has signed four promising right-hand­ed pitchers and two position players to national letters of intent, sixth-year head coach Paul Mainieri 
announced. 
The signces include outfielder Steve Sollrnann (the brother of former Irish standout Scott Sollmann) left­handed first baseman/pitcher Joe Thaman and right-han­

ders Aaron Edwards, Malnierl 
Brian Kaplan, Bob 
Keppel and Michael Morgalis. 
"We had a strong need to sign some quali­ty pitching, in addition to adding some posi­tion players who can come in and compete for playing time as freshmen," said Mainieri, whose 1999 Irish squad won the Big East Conference regular-season title en route to a 43-18 overall record and a spot as an NCAA Tournament regional host. 
The current Notre Dame squad includes six seniors, led by starting pitcher Scott Cavey, top closer John Corbin and three starting position players, including first baseman Jeff Felker, second baseman Jeff Perconte and left fielder Matt Nussbaum. 
"We also probably will lose junior pitcher Aaron Heilman to the pro draft. but we have addressed a lot of our needs with the cur­rent freshman class and these signees," said Mainieri. 
Thaman is expected to compete for start­ing time at first base in the 2001 season while the speedy Solhnann could join cur­rent sophomore center fielder Steve Stanley and freshman right fielder Brian Stavisky to form a talented Irish outfield when the 2001
-
season rolls around. 
"Adding a player of Sollmann's ability gives us two center fielders in the same out­field and it's hard to imagine there being a better outfield'--both offensively and defen­sively -than what we potentially could have with Sollmann, Stanley and Stavisky," said Mainieri. 
Sollmann's danger on the base paths also should boost Notre Dame's offensive strate­gy. "With the changes in the bat standards, there will continue to be more of a premium on having balance in your offense," said Mainieri. "Sollmann has some pop in his bat and also will give us another threat on the bases." 
All four of the recently-signed pitchers will have the chance to play important roles on the 2001 staff, with Keppel and Edwards receiving mention on Baseball America's annual list of top high school prospects. 
"We will have a big gap in .our pitching staff for the 2001 season," Mainieri said, "With the loss of Cavey and Corbin and the likely loss of Heilman. But we are excited to give the players that will be returning, and these signees, the chance to play key roles on the mound in 2001." 
Edwards is a promising prospect who led his 1999 Chambersburg High School team to the state title, with a 10-1 record and 
1.67 ERA, plus 95 strjkeouts, 37 walks and 34 hits allowed in 71 innings. Edwards was the winning pitcher in the state title game and helped his team earn a 27-2 final record ·and a No. 21 national nmking by USA Today. 
"I couldn't pass up the opportunity to get such a great education," Edwards said, "And to be part of a baseball program that has been one of the nation's most successful teams during the 1990s." 
Kaplan. known for a strong arm and a tough curveball, received the Rick Roden Pitching Award as a junior, after posting a 7-4 record and 1.45 ERA, with I 06 strike­outs and a .169 opponent batting average in 77 innings. A third team all-state selection, Kaplan led his high school to the regional title while tossing a no-hitter and two one­hitters. 
Keppel -who has extensive family ties to Notre Dame -made an Aug. 21 verbal commitment to the Irish, despite scholar­ship offers from several Division I schools in both baseball and basketball. The 6-foot-5 Keppel can touch the low 90s with his fast­ball and was listed 131st on Baseball America's list of the nation's top high school players (first in the state of Missouri). 
"I always have wanted to go to Notre Dame and it was a great feeling when they first called me on July 1st," Keppel said. "Baseball is closest to my heart but I'd love to keep playing basketball, if it can work out." 
Keppel's all-around athleticism has seen him play every position but catcher with the Spartans while his nine home runs as a junior set a De Smet record. A three-year starting point guard, he led the Spartans to the state basketball title in 1998-99 while breaking the school's 20-year-old assist record with 216. 
Morgalis is coming off a strong summer season with the Midland Braves, posting an 8-1 record and 2.53 ERA on a team that went 42-15 and won the Dizzy Dean World Series title in Elkton, Md. 
Sollmann is one of the most successful 
high school athletes in Cincinnati, excelling 
in baseball, football and basketball. He hit 
.429 as a junior, with five home runs, 18 
stolen bases and 20 RBI on a team that 
went 20-4 and advanced to the sectional 
finals. 

Known for his strong all-around game, Tham-an's junior season included a .568 batting average, a conference-leading 42 hits, 34 RBI, 11 doubles, three triples, one home run and just one fielding error during a 20-5 season. On the mound, Thaman post­ed a 3-1 record and 2.44 ERA, with 17 strikeouts and just eight walks. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Warrick not invited to Heisillan cere01ony 
Associated l'ress 
NEW YORK 

When the season began, Peter Warrick was the Heisman Trophy favorite and Michael Vick was just another promising freshman. 
Now, it's Virginia Tech's Vick who's the Heisman finalist and Florida State's Warrick who will be watching Saturday night's pre­sentation on TV. 
"I really can't believe this is hap­pening," Vick said Monday. "This whole season has been great but I never thought this would happen." 
Warrick, who missed two games because of his involvement in a shopping mall clothing scam, did not make the list of five finalists announced Monday by the Downtown Athletic Club, which presents the award. 
The finalists are Wisconsin run­ning back Ron Dayne and four quarterbacks -Georgia Tech's Joe Hamilton, Purdue's Drew Brees, Marshall's Chad Pennington and Vick, who becomes the first freshman to be invited to the Heisman ceremony since it started being televised in 1981. 
Dayne, who ran for 1,834 yards and broke Ricky .Williams Division I-A career rushing record in lead­ing the Badgers (9-2) to the Rose Bowl, is considered the Heisman favorite. 
The final five were invited based on returns from a majority of the 921 Heisman voters. 
Vick led the Hokies (11-0) to their first perfect regular-season in 81 years and shot at the nation­al title against Warrick's top­ranked Seminoles (11-0) in the Sugar Bowl Jan. 4. 
"I don't know if I've ever seen a guy that's caught the nation's attention as fast as Michael, espe­cially in such a fantastic fashion," Tech coach Frank Beamer said Monday. "Does he deserve it? Yes. The way he's performed all sea­son, he does." 
Warrick, who caught 71 passes for 934 yards and totaled 12 touchdowns. most likely lost his chance to win college football's top individual prize because of his brush with the law. 
Last week, the wide receiver admitted he probably had no chance to win the Heisman, but hoped to be invited to New York. 
"When [ got in that trouble, it hurt me a lot," Warrick said. He also said the Heisman winner should be "the person that can help their team win no matter what tl?-ey have to do. · 
Keep the team first and remain unselfish." 
Warrick was arrested in the 
middle of the season on felony 
grand theft charges. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
024-South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per characrer per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for comenr wirhout issuing refunds. 
LOST & FOUND  ................................... Sony Playstation to give as a Christmas gift Looking for a good  WALK TO SCHOOL http://mmmrentals.homepage.com 232-2595 or mmm.rentals@aol.com  SPRING BREAK 2000 PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA FROM $149 PER PERSON SAND·  PERSONAL  THE LAST ISSUE OF THE OBSERVER tS WEDNESDAY, DEC.8. JI you want to wish your friends a  
deal.  PIPER BEACON BEACH RESORT  happy holiday in the classifieds, the  
LOST:  Call Chas  3 bdrm. duplex. one mile from cam- THE "FUN PLACE"!  High-Speed Copies,  deadline is  
DARK BLUE COLUMBIA WINTER COAT WITH BlJ\CK ACROSS THE  4-2686 **••tt•----~··••tt•tt••··-·  pus. Appliances, W/D. 503EddySt.  TIKI BEACH BAR ENTERTAIN­MENT BY BOOGIE INCORPORAT- Color Copies, Binding, Fax Service, Resumes,  2 pm Tuesday, Dec. 7.  
SHOULDERS &BlACK FLEECE  ED BIKINI CONTESTS MALE HARD  Business Cards, Laminating,  To the CalH. Crew: If I could. I'd give  
ZIP-OUT LINING. LOST AT  EARN __$$$s FOR EVERY HOUR  273-8332  BODY CONTESTS  & a whole lot more  y'all a big bucket of mung for christ- 
SENIOR BAR ON NOV. 20 AFTER  YOU SPEND SURFING THE  3 POOLS LAZY RIVER RIDE  at  mas.  
>  ND-BC GAME. $$REWARD$$. CALL PAT AT  INTERNETFOR DETAILS SEND E· MAIL TOWORLDWEB1@GO.COM  6 SEDAM. '00-'01 $1200/mo. 273-0482  WATER SLIDE HUGER BEACHFRONT HOT TUB  THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center  Hey Erin, Merry Christmas ......See  
1-312-245-4294.  
 MINI GOLF GIFT SHOP SUITES UP  Phone 631-COPY  you soon!  
room for rent  TO 10PEOPLE  Free Pick-Up & Delivery!  BYE  
WANTED  FOR RENT  call for info 256-6929  1-800-488-8828 WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM  OK, I promise. Last mvng reference.  
ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE  That's it.  
Free CD of cool indie music when  HOME FOR  SPRING BREAK 2000  
you register at mybytes.com, the ulti­mate website tor your college needs.  ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  FOR SALE  Cancun. Mazatlan, Acapulco, Jamaica and S.Padre. Reliable TWA  Looking for a unique gift idea?  Finn, Christine and Erica: Thanks for all of your hard work this semester ­ 
243-0658.  flights. Biggest Parties & Best  How about a personalized color pie- and all 2 1/2 years you've put in at  
Browse icptcom for Springbreak  Spring Break Specials!Bahamas  Packages. Book by Dec.1 & SAVE  lure calendar?  The Observer. You've helped make  
"2000".AII destinations offered.Trip  Looking tor 1 more roommate to  Party Cruise 5 Days $279' Includes  up to $20011-800-Surts-Up  Bring in 12 of your favorite pictures  the office a fun place (stop laughing,  
Participants.Student Orgs & Campus  move into beautiful off-campus  Meals!  www.studentexpress.com  and we' II do the rest!!I  rolling your eyes, etc.).  
Sales Reps wanted.Fabulous par- house in Riverside historic district.  Awesome Beaches.NightlifelCancun  Good luck in London and in D.C.  
ties.hotels & pnces.Call Inter- Male or female (currently 2 male, 1  & Jamaica 7 Nights From $3991  1988 Honda CRX 104K, 4 Speed,  THE COPY SHOP  We'll miss you tons.  
Campus B00-327-6013  female living there) who wants a  Florida $129!springbreaktravel.com  Runs Well. $750 288-340B  LaFortune Student Center  
clean. safe house and likes good  Thanks for a wonderful semester,  
EXCELLENT compensation for mar- music. N•Sync fans need not reply.  1-800-678-6386  92 Ford Tempo, 4-dr., auto, loaded,  "O" staff. Your dedication, long hours  
keting college products at BEST  280 00/month plus utilities.  120kmi., runs well, $1350/best.  www.thecommentator.com  and great work are greatly appreciat­ 
prices.Go NOW to:  Phone Cards 669m1n. $20  232-5609  ed. See you in the next century ­ 
www.akademos.com/campusrep  Call 288-4517.  243-9361 or 258-4805  www.NDToday.com  ha. ha.  

Tuesday, December 7, 1999 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 

~ Wednesda~, December 8,1999 ~~ 9:00am-10:00pm 
20o/ooff All Notre Dame 
... 


.Clothing and Gift Items* 


HAMMES 
NOl'l{E D BOOKSTORE 

IN THE ECK CENTER 
www.ndcatalog.com 
*Student ID Required. 
*Does not include books, CD'S, tapes, school and office supplies, computer supplies, art supplies. 
page 16. The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, December 7, 1999 
NFL 
Sanders likely to return to double duty 
yard line and reaching the 17 on 
Associa1ed Press 
another. 
IRVING, Texas 
With little else working for the Dallas offense, Cowboys coach Chan Gailey may finally use Deion Sanders at wide receiver. 
Although Gailey was noncom­mittal Monday, the idea has been raised by Sanders and sec­onded by team owner Jerry Jones, making it highly likely that the All-Pro cornerback will return to double duty -or triple if you count returning punts ­against Philadelphia on Sunday. 
"We certainly would look at all possibilities to give our offense a spark and that's one way it could happen," Gailey said. "He doesn't have the knowledge of our routes and things like that, except for what he's retained from last year because he hasn't practiced there any this year. But he certainly has big-play ability." 
The Cowboys (6-6) failed to score an offensive touchdown for the first time i.n 16 games in their 13-6 loss to New England on Sunday night. 
Over the last eight quarters, Dallas has just one touchdown from Troy Aikman, Emmitt Smith & Co. The unit has scored two touchdowns in the last 12 quarters and three in 17. 
The offensive ineptness was especially apparent against the Patriots. Dallas couldn't reach.. the end zone despite starting one drive at the New England 8­
''I don't think you can say it's one particular thing,"Aikman said. "The penalties, a big nega­tive play that will set us back, we won't convert a third down, a poor throw -it's a different number of things that will kill our drives." 
Injuries have knocked out sev­eral key players and nobody else has stepped up to make big plays. Smith hasn't scored since breaking his right hand five games ago and defenses are making sure not to let Raghib Ismail beat them deep. 
That's where Sanders thinks he can help. 
"I want to play offense," Sanders said. "I've dropped sub­tle hints to the coach, but now I'm ready to go out there and do whatever it takes. It's time to throw everything out there." 
Sanders caught seven passes for 100 yards, including a 55­yarder, last season. In 1996, when he saw his most action on offense, he had 36 receptions for 475 yards and a touchdown. 
"He will command some sort of attention if he is on the field," Gailey said. 
Fear of injury is the main rea­son Gailey has been reluctant to play Sanders both ways. 
Sanders missed the first two games this season recovering from toe surgery. He's since had problems with groin and ham­string injuries, but he insists that he's healthy. 
Oeliu-e~ilfj Tk fjd-E?_t Pizza/ @3©t3)Q Q[b@ .® . ©@fl! IJ[!]©0cf1Gl~gg  
12 Anytime Anytime you call between you call between 5:30 & 7:00, 10:30-12:599 9the price of your the price of yourI 2 large 1 large 1 topping 6 topping pizzaspiua is the time y~u call.is the time you call. * Plus tax* Plus tax  
r--------...----,Lunch Special .1 1 1 Small 1 Topping I ND store I 2 Cans of Coca-Cola product I Saint Mary's/ I $5 99 I •L ______ .:,. ______.J North Village Mall 271-11.77 271-PAPA  

Class of 2000. 
¦ ¦ 
COME CELEBRATE THE END OF THE SEMESTER AND CONGRATULATE THE DECEMBER GRADUATES 
FREE PIZZA!!! 
.S 

Senior Class Dinner at Alumni Senior Club! 5-7 PM on Wednesday, December 8 Then head ov-er to the JACC to cheer for Men's hoops!!! *Donations will be accepted for the Adoption Network* 

Must be 21 to attend 

page 17

Tuesday, December 7, 1999 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

G 1128adinHall 631-5242 @103Hesburghlibrary631-7800 ~emailministry. l@nd.edu ~bwww.nd.edu/~ministry 
This Week in Campus Ministry 
Monday-Friday, December 6-10. 103 Hesburgh Library 
Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #59 (February 4-6) Sign-Up 
Monday. December 6 through Monday, Feb­ruary 7 103 Hesburgh Library. 112 Badin Hall 
Freshman Retreat #27 (February 11­
12) Sign-Up 
Targeted Dorms: Badin, Keenan, Lewis, O'Neill, Pasquerilla East, St. Edward's, Siegfried, Walsh, and Zahm 
Tuesday. December 7. 7:00 pm. Badin Hall Chapel 
Campus Bible Study 
Tuesday. December 7. 10:00 pm, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Advent Penance Service 
Wednesday, December 8, 8:00 pm. Wilson Commons 
Graduate Student Bible Study Group 
Wednesday, December 8, 10:00-10:30 pm Walsh Hall Chapel 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
A spirit-filled, student-led power half hour of prayer and music for students of all Christian faith traditions. 
Wednesday. December 8. 12:45-1 :30 p.m .• Main Lounge of LaFortune 
ND Handbell Christmas Choir Concert 
Wednesday. December 8, 7:30-9:00 p.m. 
Las Posadas Celebration followed by social 
Meet at Hesburgh Library Concourse 
Wednesday, December 8 
Feast of the lmmaculte Conception 
Friday, December 10. 3:30-4:00 p.m. Main Building 
ND Handbell Christmas Choir Concert 
Friday, December 1O, 5:05 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart Mass on the 
Feast of Our lady of Guadalupe 
The promise -..'-._.... 
........ 

ofAdvent .,,,,,.,-" 
In the northern halfof the world the days are becoming shorter. ) ' The nights are longer and the stars are more beautiful. We call all the days and nights before Christmas "Advent"-which means "coming." The church reads and sings about God's promises. We tell the stories of many holy people like Mary and John the Baptist, Nicholas and Lucy. We strive toward the time when God's love will be in all of us, when peace will come from people being just and full of love for each other. As we settle into the longest nights of the year, we long to celebrate the great festival of Christmas. 
The Advent Wreath dates back to ancient celebrations of the winter solstice, that time in the year when the sun reaches its southern most point in the heavens and the days are the 
. . darkest and most gloomy. Because they longed for the return of the sun's light and life, the ancients stopped all usual activity, sacrificed the use of their wagon wheels and hung them up, festooned with lights and greens in their celebration halls. The wagon wheels were the first Ad­vent wreaths-shining antidotes to "cabin fever." A ring of evergreens suspended from the ceiling, a ring that slowly turns while candles flicker above the branches, can call to mind 
a crown, a victor's wreath or even the wheel of time itself. 
As Christians, we use the same meaningful custom to anticipate the feast of light and life: the nativity of the Savior. We add one light of the wreath for each Sunday ofAdvent. We think ofthe darkness after Adam's sin and watch the growing hope and light as the prophets and the Virgin help us to prepare for the Lord's saving birth. We reflect on the three-fold coming: Christ's past coming in Bethlehem; his future coming at the end of time; and his present coming though grace and sacraments into the lives of people. 
Good Stuff to Do 
TONIGHT 
Jubilee Prayer Service 
• 9:45 pm @ Holy Year 
for Reconciliation and Renewal 
Doors outside 
with the help of Pax Christi, ND Right to Life,
the Basilica 
Amnesty, lnt'l, Interfaith Christian Night Prar.er and others 
A reenactment ofMary's andJoseph's search
.JP CO ~AJD>A 
for shelterfor the birth ofChrist the child. 
Wednesday, Dec. 8th at 7:30pm 
The celebration of Mexican culture and tradition will begin at Hesburgh Library, followed by a proce~sion and reenactment through North Quad. 
f~©~:i." ~[J:@[fifRZ~!f:iQ) ~~~[!_,~ 0 ~l'#ffe.'l~ffe.'ll0Jr.®rr~ ~L. :Ei?Y~ C "J!/A~ './f!u
0 O 0 
0 O
~~~©lJ~r~~trc.~\ w~~TF iiD~~~~~'.PiJufltL::~~ c -~~rfa~~~ o ~r~rr~t"©~© 
Sponsored by Campus Ministry and OMSA 
Fiesta de Nuestra Senora de Guadalupe 
Mass on the feast ofOur Lady ofGuadalupe 
Friday, December 10 • 5:05 pm Liturgy• Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Rev. Virgilio Elizondo, Presider and Homilist Sacred Music ofthe Coro Primavera de Nuestra Senora and the Notre Dame Folk Choir 
All are welcome to attend 
,, --;--; .... -~·stbp tiy~J;i~ t7utti.7s··¥•~;iiiy"oftce rn-~e-Uhnuy Cp,ico.~rse.,~~ ­:~:-<fo~: Hot Chd~oldte;· ¢dff~,1iji41 Donuts /r ¥~1N·.-~fru~i & #£8.Jr~-ii¥s W1 ~P 1\ r, .-~: 

WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Riley, Ratay earn Big East honors 

Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame junior center Ruth Riley and freshman guard Alicia Ratay were honored as the Big East co-player of the 
week and rookie of the week. respective­ly, after leading the seventh­ranked I r i s h 
w o m e n · s RIieybasketball team to a 3­0 record last week. Notre Dame defeated Butler 77-57,and claimed wins over then ninth-ranked North 
Carolina and Liberty at the Wachovia Women's Invitational in Richmond, Va., 
to earn the tournament title. 
Riley, who shared the honor with Swin Cash of Connecticut and was a three-time player­of-the-week honoree last sea­son, averaged 19.3 points, 6.0 rebounds and 4. 3 blocked shots last week for the Irish in their three victories. 
The 6-foot-5 Irish center also earned MVP and all-tour­nament team honors at the Wachovia Invitational Tournament as she averaged 
22.0 points, 7.0 rebounds and 
3.0 blocked shots in the two games. 
-

page 18 Tuesday, December 7, 1999
The Observer . SPORTS 
The final issue of the semester will appear on Dec. 8. 

2000-2001 
Assistan.t Rector Applications 
for University Residence Halls Are Now Available 
Of{ice of Student Affairs 316 Main Building 
Completed Applications must be 
submitted by February 11, 2000 
For More Information call the Office of Student Affairs at 631-5550 
Riley had 14 points, four rebounds and a season-high four blocked shots on seven-for­nine shooting against Butler. 
Against the Tar Heels in the opening round of the tourna­ment, she was five-of-eight from the field and hit both of her free throw attempts in sc·or­ing 12 points. She also grabbed seven rebounds and blocked four shots. 
Riley scored a season-high 32 points (the third 30-point per­formance of her career) in the championship game versus Liberty as she hit 12-of-14 shots from the field and was a perfect eight-for-eight from the free throw line. In addition, she grabbed seven boards and blocked two shots. 
In the three games, Riley. who led the nation in field goal percentage as a sophomore, hit 
77.4 percent of her shots from the field. Riley is second on the team in scoring and third in rebounding. 
Ratay. who leads the team in scoring with 18.4 points per game and is third in reboun~­ing, has been Notre Dame s leading scorer in three games and has netted double figures in all but one game. 
Ratay was the team's leading scorer against the Bulldogs with 16 points. She also tied her season-high with seven rebounds and dished off a per­sonal best seven assists in the contest. 

Tuesday, December 7, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NCAA BASKETBALL
!Please recycle to The Observer. I 
Recker to transfer 
NOTRE DAME SECURITY/POLICE DEPARTMENT 
PEACE ONEARTH and PEACE OFMIND _TO ALL NOTRE DAME STUDENTS 
1. Winter Bicycle Storage-Notre Dame Stadium 
Thursday, December 9 & Friday, .December 10: 10 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. 
Bring your bicycle to Gate D of the Notre Dame Stadium. NDSP employees will register your bicycle (at no cost) and store it. in a locked room. Students can reclaim their bicycles any time, or at the end of the frozen tundra season. 
2. D2 Lot "Lock UP." 
The D2 Student Parking Lots will again be locked during the Christmas Break (from Saturday, December 18 at 5:00 p.m., until Sunday, January 9, 1999. at 9:00 a.m.). This lot will receive "Special Attention" from the NDSP during the break. 
Please take all items of value out of the vehicle, close the windows securely, and lock your vehicle. Nothin2: of Value should be left in plam view. · 
If you would like to reclaim your vehicle d~g the D2 Lot "Lock Up"; phone Campus Security (631-5555). We will release vehicles only to persons with proper identification. If you ever note any suspicious activity or an emergency situation, call 911 or 631-5555. 
3. Extra Vigilance is needed 
Each year_ we experience an increase in thefts just before vacation breaks, especially from library study areas and the dining halls. Maintain extra viiiJance on your lap tops. book bags, purses. portmanteaux and other accoutennent, etc.. Ifwe harden our targets of opportunity, light-fingered thieves will have to work at least as hard to steal our things as we have worked to earn them. 
Ifyou have any questions about off-campus security issues, please call Cappy Gagnon (631-8343). 
Have a Safe and Happy Holiday Season! 
from Arizona to Iowa 
Associated Press 
TUCSON, Ariz. 

Luke Recker, whose transfer 
from Indiana to Arizona was 
marked ·by an automobile acci­
dent last summer, said Monday 
he will leave the Wildcats to play 
for Iowa. 
In a statement released 
through the athletic department, 
Recker confirmed reports that 
he will leave Tucson after this 
semester for Iowa City, Iowa, 
which is closer to his girlfriend, 
Kelly Craig, who is hospitalized 
in Chicago. 
"I have been cont<~mplating this decision since my arrival in Tucson," Recker. said. "This decision is based solely on per­sonal reasons. l have been noth­ing but extremely impressed with coach (Lute) Olson and the Arizona program and will miss them greatly. But being close to my loved ones has become a pri­ority at this time." 
Craig was partially paralyzed by a spinal cord injury when a truck crossed the center line of a highway near Durango, Colo., on July 10 and rammed the car in which she and Recker were rid­ing. The driver of the car they were riding in was killed. 
After the accident, Recker considered not completing the transfer despite his stormy rela­tionship with Indiana coach Bobby Knight. He decided to go through with it because of the rapport Olson has with his play­ers. 
But Clair Recker said his son's 
anticipation of a career in the 
southwest was tainted by memo­
ries of' the accident. 
"Luke was just having a hard 
timfl being away," Recker said. 
"Things were not tpe same for 
him any more. Things changed 
too dramatically. If the accident 
had not happened, this would 
not be an event." 
Recker is out for this season 
because of his first transfer, and 
under NCAA rules will have to 
sit out the first semester at Iowa. 
But the 6-f'oot-6 swingman 
should be able to play for the 
llawkeyes in January 2001, plus 
a full senior season in 2001­
•

2002. 
Olson was traveling to the Great Eight tournament in Chicago on Monday and could not be reached for comment by The Associated Press. 
Iowa coach Steve Alford said he had not been in contact with Recker. 
"There's nothing to talk about," said the first-year coach, a guard on Indiana's 1987 national championship team. "Obviously, we don't talk about other players. I don't think that's ethically right." 
Recker had appeared upbeat in recent weeks as he recovered from his injuries. He recently was cleared to go 100 percent in practice after recovering from a fracture dislocation of a bone in his left hand and a cut near his left ear that required 200 stitch­es. 
Faculty/Staff Solidarity with The Observer 
The decision of the editorial board of The Observer to publish an advertisement from an officially unrecognized student organization, OUTreachND, cxcmpli lies virtues we, as faculty and staff at the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College, seek to nurture in all students. 
We stand in solidarity with that decision and The Observer's editorial policy to publish advertisements which are neither deceptive nor offensive, nor likely to promote illegal activity. We agree this independent policy is necessary to protect the academic freedom of student journalists to learn a crall of immense significance, and that its implementation is not, and should not be, controlled by the administration of either the University of 
Notre Dame, or Saint Mary's College. 
Joan Aldous, Sociology Kathleen Antol, Chemistry & Physics Heidi Aridzzone, American Studies Wendy Arons, Film, TV& Theatre Reginald F. Bain, Theatre Kate A. Baldwin, English Cbarles Barber, Art 
Joseph Bauer, Law . K.unberly Baum, English Laura Bayard, Librarian Timothy Bays, Philosophy Gail Bederman, History Doris Bergen, History Kathleen Biddick, History Patricia Blanchette, Philosophy Joseph Blenkinsopp, Theology ThornllS Bonnell, English Rebecca L. Bordt, Sociology Patricia Chang, Sociology Kirsten Christensen, German/Russian Languages Frank Connolly, Mathematics James P. Cunningham, Finance JlllllCS Cushing, Physics Roberto DaMatta, Ant.lnopology Sperry E. Darden. Physics . Kenneth J. DeBoer. 1st Year of Studies Michael R. DePaul, Philosophy Elaine DesRosiers, Emeritus Michael Detlefsen, Philosophy Alyssa W. Dinega, Gennan/Russian Languages Jay P. Dolan, History Caroline J. Domingo, Kellogg Institute Liz Dube, Librarian Beth Eldon. Life Sciences Sam Evens, Mathematics Stephen M. Fallon, Liberal Studies Jeremy Fein, Civil Engineering & Geology Stephen Fredrnan, English Dolores Frese, English Jo Ann Gabriell, Engineering Patrick. Geary, Medieval fnstitute Teresa Ghilarducci, Economics Anamaria Goulet, Romance Lang. Barbara J. Green, English Gary Gutting, Philosophy David Hachen, Sociolo~y Graham Hammill, English David Harley, History Anne Hayner, Kroc Institute 
Robert Haywood, Art Glenn Hendler, English Paula Higgins, Music Coleen Hoover, Philosophy Encamacion Juarez, Romance Languages Tho.mas J. Jemielity, English David Todd Jenkins, Librarian Carlos Jerez-Farran, Romance Languages Paul Johnson, Music Maureen Jones, Core Course Elizabeth M. Karle, Librarian Thomas Kselman, History Douglas Kinsey, Art Marjorie Schreiber Kinsey, Art History Julia Knight, Mathematics James J. Kolata, Physics Janet Kourany, Philosophy Michael Kremer, Philosophy James Langford, University Press Michael Lapidge, English Giovanna.Lenzi-Sandusky, Romance Lang Christine Levecq, English Blake Leyerle, Theology Marya Liebenrum, Chemistry and Biochemistry Ed Manier, Philosophy Jill Mann, English Eugene R. Marshalek.. Physics Julia Marvin, Libernl Studies Diana C. J. Matthias. Snite Museum William McGlinn, Physics Robert McIntosh, Biology Christopher McLaren, Classics Martha Merritt, Government Kenneth Milani, Accountancy Christian Moevs, Romance Languages Kenneth Moore, Anthropology Layna Mosley, Government Kathleen M. Murphy, Anthropology Charles E. Naquin, Management Jcnnifer.E. Nemecek, Arts & Letters Carolyn R Nordstrom, Anthrop<1logy
M.R. Olivera-Williams, Romance Languages William O'Rourke, English Catherine Perry, Romance Languages Jan Pilarski, Justice Education Catherine M. Pittman, Clinical Psychology Ann Plamandon, Dance & Theatte Carolyn Plummer, Music G. Margaret Porter, Librarian Jean Porter, Theology 
F. Clark Power, Liberal Studies Joseph M. Powers, Aerospace & Mechanical Eng. Ava Preacher, Arts & Letters Phil Quinn, Philosophy Ben Radcliff, Government Paul Rathburn, English Juan M. Rivera, Accountancy Charles Rosenberg, Art David F. Ruccio, Economics 
R. L. Rutslcy, Film, TV and Theatre Kathie Ryan-Zeugner, Librarian Susan St. Ville, Gender Studies Patricia Sayre, Philosophy Valerie Sayres. English Siiri Scott, Fi Im, TV and Theatre James Seckinger, Law Robert Sedlack, Art Lili Selden, East Asian Languages Thomas L. Shaffer, Law Richard Sheehan, Finance Daniel J. Sheerin, Classics Susan Sheridan, Anthropology Kristin Shrader-Frechette, Philosophy Eric Smithburn, Law Don Sniegowski, English Lyn Spillman, Sociology James P. Sterba, Philosophy Marsha Stevenson, Librarian Christopher Strathman, Core Course Thomas R. Swartz., Economics Kymberly Taylor, English, Margo Hobbs Thompson, Art Steve Tomasula, English George Trey, Philosophy Renee Tynan. Business Management Robert Vacca, Classics Linnea Vacca, English James H. Walton, English Kathleen Maas Weigert, Ceo. Social Concerns John Welle, Romance Languages Richard Williams, Sociology Karmen M. Wilson. 1st Year of Studies Pamela Robertson Wojcik, Film, TV & Theatre Martin H. Wolfson, Economics Robert J. Wolosin, Anthropology Lorenzo A. Zeugner, Jr., Librarian Kraysztof Ziarek, English 
C. 

~ -----. P.AID ADVERTIS-EM-E~N-T------Ti-uesd-ay,-De-cetn-~~~. 19:9
20 ----T.-'he-Ob-1er-ver~ 
I ========================================================================================================~ 
! 
' ; . . 
Joinyour dormfor·one night and dfly 
in ·a campus-wide vigil/ . 
. . . . 

Venite ·Adoremus · 
'

\ . . . . . 
0 .come let us ado·re·Him, Christ the Lord. 
Each.Advent we invite Je~us . to come . ~gain· into our hearts and into our world. 
. . . . 
0 come, o come, Emmanu.el, God with us.... 
• L.et us. not be· too busy to welcome Hiin! 
.. 

Did you ever one~ wtsh, maybe.as a ,child, that yri~ c~uld have been there in:·Bethlehem that night? To welcome Mary and Joseph. ouf ofthe colQ.? .To adore the newborn King with shepherds and magt? · . 
. . 
YOU CAN ADORE THE INFANT JESUS!· In Eucharistic Adoration, Jesus is · . truly pr!esent, ·Body, _Blood, Soul, _and Divinity il.} the consecrated Host ex-. posed ·on the altar. He is •present just as He 'Yas tha~ ·night in Bethlehem, ·only now in,everi more humble form... 
· JESUS WAITS FOR YOU·. Come arid kneel before Him, and spend half an ·hour with God, who became Man to die for you, and who became Bread to . · give you life. What an incredible gift~ a life filled with.the love and Spirit of 
;:, . God himself!. During-this season of_Advent,. let 11.s thank the Lord for life, and , pray that all life fuight be cherished and protected. We .invite you to pray· With us, that all hearts may be _t;rans_formed. 
. . . . 
JOIN YOUR DORMJN ICEEPING WATCH ONE .NIGHT· WITH THE NEWBORN IGNG!· · 
LOCATION: St. Paul Chapel, Fisher Hall (first right through front door). DATEffIME: Begins Monday, December 6, 11:30pm (after Fisher dorm Mass)­Ends Tuesday, December 7, 10:00pm (prior to Fisher dorm Mass). 
____..

-~-­
Tuesday, December 7, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 

KEVIM DALUMfThe Observer Freshman Connor Dunlop skates up ice in a game against Michigan. He was selected to the U.S. Junior National team. 
USA 
continued from page 24 
play unit. Notre Dame will return from final exams for a home series versus Princeton on Dec. 19-20 before ringing in the New Year at the Norwest Denver Cup. versus the University of Denver on Dec. 31' and Maine or Colorado College on Jan. 1. 
The USA invitees will rejoin their Notre Dame tfrnmmates in time for a Central Collegiate Hockey Association series ver­sus Lake Superior, on Jan. 7-8 at the Joyce Center. 
Inman -whose mother Straughn is a U.S. citizen ­holds joint citizenship in Canada and the United States and was one of Lhe final two 
••SOPHOMORE ENGINEERS•• 
ARE YOU INTERESTED IN AN EXTRA YEAR AT NOTRE DAME TO STUDY THE HUMANITIES? INVESTIGATE THE JOINT ARTS AND LETTERS/ENGINEERING COLLEGE REILLY SCHOLARS PROGRAM. THIS OFFERS FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE TO ENGINEERING STU­
DENTS TO ALLOW THEM TO PURSUE A FIFTH YEAR OF WORK 
LEADING TO A DEGREE IN ARTS AND LETTERS IN ADDITION TO THE ENGINEERING DEGREE. THOSE INTERESTED SHOULD REQUEST AN APPOINTMENT BY CONTACTING MRS. MILEWSKI AT 1-5015, 346 O'SHAUGHNESSY HALL. MORE INFORMATION MAY BE OBTAINED FROM THE SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY AND VALUES PRO­GRAM WEBSITE AT WWW.ND.EDU/~STV. 

TEXTBOOKS ONLINE. SAVE UP TO 40%. 
FREE SHIPPING!' 

C 1999 BIGWORDS, Inc.
• limited time offer on orders over $a5. 
forwards cut from the 1998-99 
U.S. National Junior t!mm. 
"Getting cut from last year's final junior camp was quite a disappointment but I learned some important lessons from that experience and this year I am not going to take this opportunity for granted," Inman said. ''I've spent the past year-and-a-half playing in the U.S. and mosl of my team•. mates are Americans, so I feltvery comfortable trying to make the U.S. team. I don't feel that there is any question about my loyalty." 
Henning and Dunlop have past experience playing f'or 
U.S. national teams, as mem­bers of the National Team Development Program that trains in Ann Arbor. Mich. 
Dunlop was an alternate captain and one of the leading scorers on the 1998-99 U.S. Under-18 national team. 
"The fact that three Notre Uame players were selected says a lot for where this pro­gram is headed," Dunlop said. 
...

Notes: 
. 
The U.S. roster features seven returning players from the 1998-99 U.S. National Junior Team that finished 3-4­0 at the World Championship in Winnipng, Canada. 

. 
The roster features 11 National Hockey Lcrngue drafte(~s. including 1999 draftees Inman and Henning. 

. 
Notre Dame is one of five schools that have placed play­ers on the U.S. National Junior Team in each of past four years, with the others includ­ing Boston College. Minnesota, Colorado College and Michigan State 

. 
Current Irish captain and senior center Bon Simon played on the USA's silver medal-winning team in 1996­97 and was joined on tlrn USA squad in 1997-98 by current Irish senior right wing Joe Dusbabek. 


Current Notre Dame junior left wing Dan Carlson was a member of the 1998-99 U.S. junior national team. 

Love, Mom and Tommy Lasorda 
r-----------------------, 
I ~.I, NOTRE DAMEi SUPEII DISCOUNT:
: 8 1200FF
: 0N ANY SPA!
( laaT~ LArai/able to all students a11d Parents wit/, this coupon. I _ ...____.:;__ (No ID Required) 
: _..I.\' @ Valid Su11day. Th11TSdoy -110t rolid for Sp«ial lw,ts -80 at Exit 77 • 51825 /JS 33N • Soutl Be11d, IN • 272-~
L----------------------­
• Free Continental Breakfast 0~~ '1,., 
• free HBO, CNN, ESPN \''~ '-~o~ 
• 
Free local (all, Fax_ o-"~ ~·~~ 

• 
Kitchenettes f~\\'l .~\.', 


~1> 
~~(; 

Must present coupon· prior to check-in 
272-9000 



page 22 
_,. 
SwiID 
continued from page 24 
something that I was aware of," Verlin said. "I was shooting to improve my time, and I hadn't realized that I had broken it." 
The relay team of sophomore Jonathan Pierce, junior Matt Grunewald, senior Rob Fetter and senior Ray Fitzpatrick also rewrote the record books for the Irish, replacing the meet record in the 800 freestyle relay. Fitzpatrick edged out Western Kentucky's Kicker Vencill for the win. Vencill had set a new meet record in the 100 freestyle earli­er in the meet. 
Other top finishes for the Irish included junior Dan Szilier's first place 200 breastroke swim in 2:20.35, and a pair of wins from sophomore Jonathan Pierce in the 500 and 1,000 freestyles. 
The divers also put up strong performances, with senior Herb Huesman stacking a second 
Many Notre Dame Students choose not to drink. For those who do drink, males average 1 time a week· and females 2times a month. 
*Based on randomly sampled self-report in Spring 1999, average frequency for on-campus ND undergraduates.
--~WJ~i::;.~..:··:·::.'.~~:~.~--.~;~!:r;~•·,,•: ,·. ' .... 
A message from PlllAR'S & Alcohol at1d Drug £ducatio 
place win from the one meter boardwith 468.30 points. Freshman Andy Maggio secured third place with 460.25. 
In the absence of their three top scorers, the Irish women's swimming and diving team also made their presence felt at Rolfs this weekend, placing first as a team with 1,292 points over Michigan State (1,197), Denison (1,176), and Western Kentucky (879). 
Junior Carrie Nixon, junior Brooke Davey and senior Shannon Suddarth competed in San Antonio, Texas, over the weekend at the U.S. Open, leav­ing the Irish to defend their home waters at the Invitational without them. 
Senior Allison Newell picked up three wins for the women's team, sweeping the 200 butter­fly and 100 butterfly. Newell also swam a freestyle leg for the first place 800 freestyle relay team of junior Kristen Van Saun, junior Brenda Reilly and freshman Lindsay Moorhead. 
The Observer . SPORTS 
The Irish women also picked up a pair of wins from sopho­more Kelly Becking,· who cap­tured the 100 backstroke in 56.20, posting a "B" qualifying time for the NCAA 2000 Championships. 
Becking also swam the lead­ing leg of the first place 200 medley relay team with Rimkus, Barger and Shepard. 
Van Saun also notched an individual win for the Irish, win­ning the first event of the meet by edging Kentucky's Sydney Mountford in the 500 freestyle. Van Saun outtouched her com­petitor by .08, edging into first with a time of 4:56.20. 
Sophomore diver Heather Mattingly posted a first place win for the Irish on the three­meter board. 
The Irish women will compete next at the St. Croix Invatational on Jan. 10, 2000. The men's squad will return from their break opening the new year on the road, matching with LSU on Jan. 8,2000. 
NCAA 
continued from page 24 
but we struggled with our passing and defense," said Irish captain Leffers. 
The Irish took the first game by pulling away from the Buckeyes. The lead changed hands often in the game with Ohio State break­ing a 7-7 tie to take a 10-7 lead. But the Irish answered back, scoring four straight points to take the 11-10 lead. After letting Ohio State into the lead at 12 points, Notre Dame returned to win the first match. 15-13. 
In the second game, the Buckeyes got off to a fast start and held an 11-3 advan­tage at_ one point. The Irish were able to get as close as four points. but the Buckeye lead was too much for them to overcome, as Notre Dame dropped the second game 15­10. 
The Irish took a quick 6-1 lead in game three, but the Buckeyes were able to battle back to tie it up. The two teams were tied at 11, 12 and 
Tuesday, December 7, 1999 

13 before Ohio State got to game point, having a 14-13 lead. After enduring three Ohio State game points, the Irish tied the score for the seventh time in game three at 
14-14. 
An ace by Buckeye Shelly Draeger, however, put Ohio State back at game point 15­14 with the game ending on the next play on an Irish net call. 16-14. 
The Irish needed to win the next two games to advance in the tournament, but fell behind quickly in the fourth game. After falling behind 7 • 1, Notre Dame battled back to close the game within one point at 7-6. 
The Irish were only able to manage one more point the rest of the way, as the Buckeyes defeated them in the fourth game to advance to the second round of the NCAA tournament. 
The loss in the tournament marked the end of the Notre Dame careers of seniors Mary Leffers and Emily Shiebout. 
"It's been a great year and we've had a great team," Irish head coach Debbie Brown said. 

STUDENTS 
WORLDWIDE 
ENTER.COM 
PURSUE JOB 
AND INTERNSHIP 
OPPORTUNITIES 
THAT SPAN THE GLOBE 

. . . . . 
~ 

\ mpusCareerCenter.com
~. . !he world's largest campus job 1a;, 
Tuesday, December 7, 1999 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
....
TOM KEELEY 

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM
FOURTH AND INCHES 
:J'OE., :I; -:rus., C.1'<,W', 
\tl\NOLE A REl.,.,"'f\OI-.IS~lP R \C:,Hi No_w _,,,,..,,,
_ 
Fox TROT 
'fov P,.E..I\LL'{ ~RE. ~ " 
6~.'E.f\1 61J'(, ONE OF -n,E tJ\C.\::S, 6V'<S I \<.~OW 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Actress_ 60 "Stop bugging Chong me!"
Garden shelter 34 18B4 Helen 64 Tennis call 
7 Put past? 
Hunt Jackson 65 Not busy 11 Hush-hush org. 
novel 66 German subs 14 Musical with an 35 Londoner, e.g. 
67 Bard's "before" exclamation 36 Uninvited 68 "Hey, bud!"
point in its guests 
name 69 Violates the 
41 Grandson of 
rules15 Defensive spray Adam 16 "So ... ?" 42 Mouth 
DOWN
puck ere rs
17 Nullify 1 Geometry suffix 
44 Encouraged
18 About, in 
2 Ginger_
48 Mark the memos 
boundaries of 3 Quick tum19 Ready for an 49 Inside view? 4 "Green Acres" asylum co-star
50 "There but for 
20 Hip 1984 Bill 
the grace of 5 One of Alcott's 
Murray film 
God " "little women" 23 la Douce 
52 Solidifies 6 Creme-filled 26 Sailor's 53 Women who go snack 
affirmative 
after other 7 Friendliness 27 Suffix with women's men 8 Capital of switch 58Mad. _ Australia 28 Marine food fish 59 Furnace output 9 Tannish 10 Poor grades 11 Tourist's staple
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 12 Consecutively 
13 Appends 
Stockholm 22 English poet laureate Hughes 23 Jerusalem's home: Abbr. 
25 "Red hor person 29 Paid to hold 
hands? 30 Refuse 32 Many an airline 
seat request 

V. I I" ~EL. 'It.II, I'( (.t..f,~S su~EDUl­',cnvmE.S fl.<;. , 


Ah, mr:1n. Look
\;'., "I c:oul-ON'i" C,\ \/OV I tl'E ill'\€. YO 
these 9vy<o . lnceree , 
DE~E.RVE. Oo '(O 
e:iold? "The Che,:(p
Kin~t-tn,ds whQ+ 
the'::j ~1 I Cd 11 me.•. 
l .:ion .i+ even !(.now M rrh is. 
~ 
BILL AMEND 
/ 

The king of second-guessing. 
baam.1@nd.edu 


Birthday Baby: You will lean toward more unconventional subjects and 
47 Optometrist's best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 
activities throughout your life. You're a lover of life with a wide variety of interest years: 1-886-7-ACROSS. interests that will lead you into unknown territory. (Need advice? Clieck out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialaalcom, aatromate.com.) 
01999 Universal Press Syndicate 
EUGENIA LAST 

this year. 00000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You will get angry if family members are not pulling their weight. Minor mishaps will occur if you aren't cau­tious. Make the necessary changes in your personal life. 00 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Work quietly on your own. Turn your nome into a winter wonderland. Don't count on getting any help and you won't be disappointed. You should try to make some of your pre­sents this year. 0000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You mustn't overspend on entertainment or break your budget buying gifts to impress others. Use your ingenuity and get the most for your money. 
000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): It's best to concentrate on finish­ing important projects before year­end. You will have problems with loved ones if you push your opinions on them or if you blatantly try to make decisions for them. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
You should be planning a nice family vacation. You all need a break from the hectic pace that you've been keeping. Be sure you all have your personal papers up-to-date. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't lend or borrow money or pos­sessions. You will have to be careful not to run yourself ragged. Try to enjoy the festivities, but don't burden yourself with all the details needed to entertain. 0000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your ..... need to mingle with others may cause friction at home. Try to include the people you live with in your plans, but If they refuse, go on with your plans. 00 
33 One of the 48 Cartoonist 56 Prefix with Barrymores Browne lateral 
35 Apt. features 51 String ensemble, 57 Massages 37 Solidifies maybe 61 Tit for_ 38 Discharge 
54 Party manager, 62 Judge in 1996 39 Palatine Hill site in Congress news 
40 Angry state 

55 lipstick shades 63 "'Tis a pity''43 Patrick and Paul: Abbr. 44 Blowout Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone:
45 Sesame Street character 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
46 Egg, for one Annual subscriptions are available for the 
HOROSCOPE 
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1999 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIIIS DAY: Priscilla Barnes, Ellen Burstyn, Tom Waits, Larry Bird, Harry Chapin 
Happy Birthday: Gear up and get ready. You'll be taking on so much this year that you aren't likely to have much time to sleep. It will be a fantastic time for you as long as you are fully prepared to put your all into everything you do. You will be quick to make decisions, and that will con­tribute to your success. Your num­bers: 5, 11, 22, 34, 37, 49 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You will accomplish the most if you put in overtime. Rewards will be yours if you meet your deadlines. Your mate won't be too pleased if you don't have time to help with the festive preparations. 00000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Get involved in activities that will be conducive to meeting that special love interest or plan a very ardent evening with the one who has already captured your heart. You must avoid extravagance. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You've taken on too much. Personal changes or holiday decorating shoula be your concern. Don't -be surprised if unexpected guests drop by. Stay calm and don't let their pres­ence ruin your plans. 000 · 
CANCER Uune 21-July 22): You may be able to convince friends or relatives to do things your way, but don't push your luck with your col­leagues. Put your efforts into your personal relationships. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Someone may overreact to your actions. Con­centrate on work and don't bother getting involved in gossip. Problems with get-rich schemes will be upset­ting. You mustn't overspend on gifts 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

•

Notre 
,----------~---­
... 
Heisman hopeful 
Purdue junior Drew Brees will attend the Heisman presentation at the Downtown Athletic Club in New York. 
PORTS 
page 14 

~HE page 24 vnSERVER Tuesday, December 7, I999 


VOLLEYBALL NCAA TOURNAMENT 
Irish season ends with four game loss to Buckeyes 
By MATI OLIVA 
Sports Writer 
For the first time since 1992, Notre Dame lost in the opening round of the NCAA tournament, as Ohio State defeat­ed Notre Dame in four games.
.. Ohio State closed out Notre Dame's vol­. leyball season behind the strong offen­sive performance of Rosie Snow. Snow finished the match with 24 kills, as the Buckeyes defeated the lrish 13-15,-15­10, 16-14 and 15-7. The Irish finished their season with a 20-9 record, while the Buckeyes improved to 17-11 overall and met the winner of the UCLA-Eastern Washington match in the second round of the tourna­ment Sunday. Kristy Kreher led the Irish with 24 kills, while Mary Leffers finished with a double-double. contributing 10 blocks and 12 kills. The Irish also received strong performances from Christi Girton and Denise Boylan. Boylan had 63 assists, six blocks and eight digs in the game, and Girton totaled 20 killswith .382 hitting average. The Irish outhit (.321-.2-96) and out­blocked the Buckeyes (f6-10) but com­mitted 15 service errors and gave up 12 aces in the losing cause. JOHN DAILY/The Observer "Our hitting and blocking was great, Senior captain Mary Leffers (right) goes up for a block in a game against West Virginia earlier this season. Leffers played the final game of her career this weekend in a loss to Ohio State,
see NCAA/page 22 

SWIMMING 
Notre Dame claims Invitational 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE Saint Mary's Editor 
_ Like a professor evaluating his classes' performance during the semester, men's swimming and diving coach Tim Welsh decided that his team's GPA was honor roll material. 
Walking out of the Notre Dame Invitational Saturday night with a team win, six swim­mers with first-place finishes and a new meet record, the men's swimming and diving team fared well for the semes­ter. 

"If this were class, this meet is the final exam," Welsh had said going into the meet Thursday, where the Irish would attempt to defeat a field of closely ranked contenders. 
Come Saturday, there was no question this class earned As. "We did well on our exam," Welsh said, "from start to fin­
ish." 
Entering a meet where there was no clear-cut winner, Notre Dame secured a victory over Western Kentucky by 214.5 points. Denison .College finished in third with 1,057 points, fol­lowed by Michigan State (865.5) and Denison (1,057) trailing in fourth and fifth places. 
The Irish were led by junior Ryan Verlin, who continued his unbeaten streak in the 200 but­terfly, securing a first place fin­ish Saturday night in a meet­record time of 1 :49.98. 
While a top finish may not have been. unexpected, the 
record  was  a  surprise  for  
Verlin.  
"The  record  wasn't  even  

see SWIM/page 22 
HOCKEY 

Three players na01ed to national tea01 
Special to The Observer 

Three University of Notre Dame hockey players have been named to the United States National Junior Team that will compete in the upcoming World Junior Championship, marking the fourth con­s e c'u ti v e year that N o t r e Dame play­ers will be members of the presti­gious 22­p layer team. 
"It's a terrific opportunity for our players to face the best play­ers in the world," Notre Dame head couch Dave Poulin said. "Each of them brings some­thing different to the table and will play different roles with the team. 
"We will face some chal­lenges without having those guys for four tough games, but it will give us the chance to see some other players in 

new situations and they will 
have the chance to step in and 
contribute," he added. 
The Notre Dame invitees 
include sophomore center 
Brett Henning, sophomore 
center/left wing David Inman 
and freshman center Connor 
Dunlop -representing the 
most players from any school 
on the USA team, which is 
comprised of the nation's top 
players who are under 20 
years old. 
The International Ice Hockey Federation World Junior Championship will be held Dec. 26-Jan. 4, in Skelleftea and Umea, Sweden. The United States team will ·assemble on Dec. 13 in West Point, N.Y. , before traveling to Sweden for pre-tournament exhibition games on Dec. 20 
and 22. 
The Irish are scheduled to 
play four games without the 
services of Henning, Inman 
and Dunlop -who each rank 
among the team's top four 
center candidates and are 
vital members of the power-
see USA/page2 I 

vs. Valparaiso at Purdue Men's Swimming vs. Massachusetts
SPORTS 
Wa•
Wednesday, 7:30 p.m. Wednesday, 7:30 p.m. at LSU Friday, 7:05 p.m.ATA Wednesday, All Day 
GLANCE 







