
Another piece of my heart 
5,aint Mary's presents a dramatic tribute to teenagers in the Vietnam War. See what Scene has to say about the performance. 
Scene . page 12 

THE 
VOL XXXIII NO. 52 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Campus leaders hesitant to decide on Ex Corde 
By TIM LOGAN 
Ntws Writer 
Tim ickals set forth by Um current drart. of guidPlirws for U.S. Catholic coll(ig-ns 11.ncl u11iv1irsitfos arc praise­worthy. say administration h,adcrs at hoth Notrn Damn and Saint Marv's, but llwv add. thP drwil liPs in tlw Zttitails nml.i11 llw rush t.o a clnd­
s11111. 
WPd1wsdav, tlw '.\lational Conl'Prt'l1CP ·or Catholic Bishops (NCCBI will lik,dy bngin dPbatn on tlw latPsl proposal for implementing /:'.r Cord,• Hcclesiae. l'opn .lohn Paul ll's I(JlJ() statPnwnt on Catholic high­Pr Pducalion. Administrators and tlwologians al NotrP Damn and Saint Mary's lrnvf' urged tlw bishops to poslp111w that vote and discuss a less IPi.:alist.k apprna<·h that truly Pmbod­il's tlw idPals of tlw apostolic consti­lulio11. 
Thus far. dialog1w has !wen lwrw­liC'ial. many say, and tlwy e.xprnss lwpP that l'url.ll('r talks will build a lwttPr irnplPnwntation. 
"I would ask that that there\ bn a df'!ay 011 any vol<' until this dialogue procnPds nv,·n further along," said Fallwr Hichard Warner, counselor to Notrn l>anw's president. This dia­log1w, not tlw judicial Pnforcement of Canon law that thn current pro­posal suggests, would !Jotter balance tlw Church's role in universities that call llwmscilvns Catholic with the opl'n a<"adPmit· nnvironnrnnt that s1H·1·essf11I universith\s in Urn U.S. rPquirn. hf' said. 
"TlwrP's no 1wPd to rush," Warner said. Otlwr fc•adPrS (!Cho tlwsn snnli­llll'nls. 
UnivPrsily president Fathor Edward Malloy has lwen a lnading rritic or tlw proposal since it was n•l1•asl'd in I(JIJ8. I le rnlled it "posi­tively dangerous" and "unworkable" in a .lannary article in the Jesuit journal. America. I tis opposition will continue up to the vote, he said. 
"We will simply be proceeding between now and when the vote takns place to convince as many bishops as we can not to vote for it," hn said. Malloy will be at the NCCB (;pncral Assembly in Washington, D.C., this wock as a representative of the Associa,tion of Catholic Colleges and Universities (ACClf). 
Notre Dame has voiced il, opinion in many forums, including with the other Holy Cross colleges and uni­versities and with tho other schools in the Diocese of Fort Wayne-South Bend. 111 May. the Board of Fellows -a ·1 2-member body of lay and I Inly Cross trustees charged with maintaining the Catholic character of Notrn Dame -rncommended a five-year ext1rnsion of dialogue on the juridical elements of implemen­tation. 
The nxtension of debate bas been supportml by Bishop John D'Arcy of the Diocese o[ Fort Wayne-South Bend, who has expressed hope that it will nnable the bishops to refocus the norms on the true spirit of Ex Corde, communion with the Church. 
"We must establish and continue a structured, substantive, respectful and ongoing dialogue between uni­versity presidents and bishops," D'Arcy wrote in the Sept. 5 issue of Today's Catholic. lie said that this, not juridical imposition of certain norms. is the answer. 
There are those who believe that the current proposal is the answer, however, saying that establishing juridicaf norms and setting certain benchmarks are cssentiaf to prevent Catholic universities from drifting too far from the Church. 
see EX CORDE/page 4 


Himes: Library expands t~aching 
By ERIN PIROlJTEK 
News Writt'r 
Edurntiun is a way of' form­ing hu111a11 lmings, said Father Mkh,wl llimPs, Boston Collngn Uwology prnf'nssor. 
In his kPy noln ncldrnss for tlw "EXl'PIIPnCP in Tnaching Conl'Pr1•11r.t>," llinws nxplainnd that tlw gn•at prohhm1 in our s1H·.idy is Lhat we am leaching p«•oplo lo do things with oxlra­ordinary skill, such as doctors, lawynrs arul scientists, but w1i'rn not teaching th1\m to be anything. 
Faculty. the slud1rnt I.Judy and tlrn library am lhl' tlmie koy ingrndknls to a great uni­VMsity, he said. 
"Everything else is icing on tlw cakn, tlVIHJ -belicwi it or not -a grnat f'ootbnll team," said !limes, who formerly taught at. Nntr•1 Damn. 
Toaclrnrs introduce people into conversation, Himes said. However. conversation shouldn't be limited lo those who live on campus or even thosn who are still living. 
The library allows the scope of conversation to b11 broad­mwd immensely. 
"Augusline is infinitely more real to mn than any of lmy stu­dnnts]." said Ifinws, Pxplaining that what he knows about Augustine -his views, his upbringing. even that ho was tonn dPaf and his favorite color was rncl -is information that he doesn't know about his stu­dents. 
"The mere facl that he's been dead for 15 centuries is utterly irrelevant," said Himes. 
Ilimes told about a student who was an athpist laking an introductory Christian theology coursA. Upon reading Augustine the student told l,limc~, "I know exactly how he feels. 

Himes explained that for a moment the student and Augustine were contempo­raries. A teacher can help introduce students these con­versations -make thorn con­temporaries with some of the greatest minds or the present and the past. 
Himes compared the role of a teacher to that of a host at a cocktail party. When a new­comer enters a big crowded pa_r.ty filled with unfamiliar faces, ho or she may be appre­hensive. But after the host wel­comes the newcomer, intro­duces the other guests and starts conversations. the new­comer feels welcome. Then the host is free to welcome the next new arrival. 
Teachers can be the host ­
see HIMES/page 4 
Raffles, drawings aid United Way crunpaign 
By MIKE ROMANCHEK 
News Writer 

In hopes ol' raising $275,000 for the United Way of St. Josr,ph County and getting 100 percent participation from Notre Dame faculty and staff, the 1999 Notre Dame United Way Campaign is holding a weekly drawing and giving away prizes to individuals who pledge an annual gift of at least $26. 
In their campaign's titled UReaching for the Stars," the campaign aims to continue sup­port for the 33 agencies and 84 programs throughout the St. Joseph County community that United Way funds. Many of the agencies, such as Big Brothers Big Sisters of St. Joseph County. Catholic Charities West Region Office, Logan Center and La Casa de· Amistad, hav(1 close ties with Notrn Damn. Last ynar 616 faculty and staff nH·civnd services from tlrn United Way. 
Tlw campaign's goal of 100 percent campus participation is a largo in<'.rcmsn from last ynar wlrnn approximately 111w-third of the faculty and staff gavll donations. Currently, 1,058 out of the approximately 4,:rno Notre Dame employens have pledged money. Thll av<1ragc pledge is $194 but a handful of employees have given donations in excess of $2,000. 
This is the first year that the campaign held drawings for prizes donated by various cam­pus organizations. 
Some of the remaining prizes 
see FUNDING/page 4 


Monday 
NOVEMBER 15, 
1999 

Avote for freedom 
Leonid Kuchma appeared victorious over his communist counterpart in Ukraine's presidential elections. 
WorldNation . page 5 

r 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Remembering our dead 

Exactly two weeks ago, on All Saints Day, I. wrote an Inside Column about Cardinal ATinze, whose birthday was that day. I mentioned that it was also the Day of the Dead, as Nov. 2 is All Souls' Day. For Christians, the whole month of 
November is the time of remembering those who have died. 
Today, Nov. 15, is also someone's birlhday. Salome George Holly was born 19 years ago. She was a musician and a student at Mount Si High School in Snoqualmie, Wash. She was kind, beautiful. funny, and morn than just a close friend: The only reason I didn't take her to my senior prom was because it came on Easter vigil that year. She was the first per­son I would go to see when 
I went home, and usually the last I would see before I left for ND. 
She was murdered, along with her mother and one of her two little sisters, on the morning of March 6 this year. Her other little sister was held hostage for five hours before managing to escape and get help. I remember distinctly get­ting the phone call from my mother. [ had just driven 17 hours to Orlando for spring break with three friends and was prepared for my first real vacation in vears. I went home and gave her eulogy. I spent my 21st birthday there, trying to piece together the events that surrounded her death and counseling her other friends. 
I would have thought I was better prepared for a young friend's death. I had already lost four friends to accidents and one to drowning, to say nothing of grandparents or older friend~ who have died of cancer or other disease. But none of that prepared me for something so brutal and so clearly not a part of God's plan in time. 1found it some time before I could stop thinking about the way she died and start remembering the way she lived. 
It took several months. but I began to realize that as important as mourning my loss of her and remembering the goodness of her life, is remembering the living and loving them. In remembering all of what I failed to say to Salome or thinking of all that we can never do together, I began to see the value of saying everything that you want to say and doing everything you want to do with your living friends while vou still have the chance. 
So many pe~ple seem to think that we will have all the time in the world, and let their lives be filled with tedious work or don't take opportunities of friendship or dating because they want to wait until a better time or are holding out for "something better." So few realize that the value of life is in the moment. So many seem frightened by the intensity of those who do. 
I named this column "Remembering our dead," but maybe it should have been "Remembering our living." Be mindful not only of the time you wish you'd had with the deceased you remember this month, but also of the time you have with those whose names are still among the living. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Finn Pressly Amanda Greco Maureen Smithe Graphics 
Erin LaRuffo Scon Hardy Sports Production Bill Han Mark DeBoy 
Viewpoint Lab Tech Colleen Gaughen Job Tur~er 

The Observe, ( USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday "xccpt dudng exam :and v:acarion periods. The Ob:,crv~r is a mt-mbcr of the Assodac~d Pre~s. All r!!producrion rights n.te reserved. 

A.J. Boyd 
Assistant Viewpoint Editor 

The Observer . INSIDE Monday, November 15, 1999 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Monday  Tuesday  
. Performance: Sarajevo  . Coffeehouse:  
Philharmonic Orchestra,  Sophomore Literary  
O'Laughlin Auditorium.  Festival, LaFortune ,  
8p.m.  8p.m.  
. Film: "Pleasantville,"  . Seminar: "Bring Your  
Annenberg Auditorium,  Culture to the Corporation,"  
7 p.m.  Roberto Job, Lafortune,  
7p.m.  

Compiled from U-Wire reports
OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Vermont bans commercial note-taking services 
AUSTIN, Texas 
The University of Vermont­Burlington Faculty Senate passed a resolution Wednesday banning class note-taking for commercial purposes without written permission from the professor. 
Set to take effect next spring, the resolution is the first of Us kind for UVM and is under the consideration of the campus attorney. The issue has not been presented by University. of Texas officials as a possibility for lhe university since the 1980s: 
But UVM facultv members are unsure of how they· "'ill enforce this rule with 10,000 students at the uni­versity, said Mary Rice. a senate council member. 
"We haven't gotten to that step," she said. "There's a possibility that something could go in the student handbook." 
Researchers discover brain neurons 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. 

Researchers at Brown University have come one step closer to understanding brain disease, after dis­covering two distinct types of inhibitory neurons in the folded cerebral cortex as well as a unique connection between the two neurons. These two neurons help restrict the flow of information. "A brain disorder can result if there is too much excitation and not enough inhibition. This can lead to seizures," said Jay Gibson, a postdoctoral fellow and the study's lead author. The first type of neuron is a fast spiking inhibitory neuron, so named because of its rapid bursts of activity. "It essentially makes sure that all excitement from the thalamus gets immediately inhibited, in order to pre­vent runaway sensations," said Misha Beierlein. The thalamus controls the flow of sensory information into the cerebral cortex, which is the center of reasoning, attention, and sensory/motor functions. The second neuron, a low threshold spiking inhibitory neuron, inhibits activitv between neurons in the cerebral cor­tex in order to prevent them from overloading each other, Gibson said. 
LOCAL WEATHER 

5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and l1igh temperatures 
Monday 
Tuesday 
Thursaa-y­Pfiflp'y · 
~--,,)....,,.\.\"''""•.....,_/ 

~~-A~~U (f
.. , .. ,,~..~ ..... _:. +,:}·./ -:..--:::.--:. 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries SflOW Jee Sunny Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
"It is unfair for an organization to go into classes without the professor's permission. " 
Hussain Malik president of House of Tutors 
But Philip Ambrose, a UVM clas­sics profossor, said it is not feasible -and possibly not legal -to enforce this rule. 
"I would not have voted to put the restrictions on," he said. 
At UT-Austin, note-takers regular­ly sit in classes, said Robert Pyeatt, president of Paradigm Books, Ltd., which takes notes for about 30 UT classes. 
Pyeatt said he is pleased to hear 
~ ~ 
...,,_,,~,.:-•"·.• ,•, 
Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 

Study names Florida a high-risk area 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. 
The University of Florida and the surrounding Gainesville area were rated as high-risk areas for violent crimes, according to a study released earlier this week by APBnews.com. The study by the online news service predicts the risk of becoming a victim of violent crime in communities surrounding universities. Out of almost 1,500 colleges and universities, UF was ranked 198 but was given nine out of ten points, with 10 being the high­est for violent crime. In the city, the study showed the campus area to be only a mild risk, giving it a five, but southeast Gainesville and areas surrounding Southwest ATcher Road were given a nine. APBnews.com, a year­old service specializing in crime, justice and safety issues, coordinated the study with CAP Index Inc., a nationally renowned security company used by retail stores and the Department of Justice. "I think it is a wonderful piece of work that is useful for students and parents," APBnews.com Senior Producer Karl Idsvoog said. "J think college administrators and college security folks would love this because it is another piece of infor­mation that they can pass on to the students." 
NATIONAL WEATHER 

Via Assoc/at£Jd Pres:.  
Atlanta  62  37  Las Vegas  74  50  Philadelphia  48  32  
Baltimore  48  34  Lexington  52  33  San Fransisco  62  52  
Boston  46  31  New Orleans  72  48  St. Louis  58  42  
Chicago  38  28  New York  48  32  Tampa  78  54  
Houston  48  32  Orlando  75  52  Wash DC  50  32  

Wednesday 

. Theater: "The Water Engine," Washington Hall, 
7:30 p.m. 

. 
Film: "Muriel's Wedding," Montgomery Theater, 8.p.m. 

. 
Concert: CowboyMouth, Stepan Center, 8 p.m. 


about Vermont's resolution and wishes the university would follow suit. 
"We've been offering help in get­ting rid of these bootleg note-taking services," Pyeatt said. 
Paradigm is only one of a few ser­vices that hires students to sit in classes and take notes for other stu­dents to buy. 
Hussain Malik, the president of House of Tutors, which offers tutor­ing for students and class notes dur­ing some semesters, said he thinks notes allow students to concentrate better on what the professor is say­ing. 
"Vermont has probably gone over­board and overreacted, but ethical standards are needed," he said. "It is unfair for an organization to go into classes without the professor's per­mission." 
Thursday 

. AcousliCafe: Lafortune, 9 p.m. 
. 
Booksigning: Salleyann Murphey, Harmne·s Bookstore, 7 p.m. 

. 
Lecture: Charles Ray, Annenberg Auditorium, 


7:30 p.m. 

---------------·----~----------,:-..--..----------------------..-------------..--------~ 
Monday, November 15, 1999 The Observer . NEWS page 3 
----=-=-=-=--=--=--=-~=-=====================================================================~~~-=-=-=--------_-_-_-_-_-_ 
Saint Mary's 'Peacemakers' to rally, march against SOA 
By COURTNEY BOYLE News Writer  people will be beginning early Sunday morning to process in a very peaceful but deliberate  hopefully be entering the fort through its front gates," said C:apillo.  making the trip to the annual protest. There will also be a bulletin board in Le Mans I !all  and many of' lhn graduatn of'li­cers from SOA l(Jd dnath squads and village genocidiis.  
manner towards Fort Benning,  "It will rep- a  n  d  Tim lJ .S.  roporlodly spends  
Hep rn st11111 tiv ns from the Saint Mary's human rights  carrying crosstis and tombs holding the names of the thou­ resent the sup­port of the  "It will represent the  Madeleva Hall with  $3.9 billion annually to SOA.  l'und  
group, Pnacnmakers. is laking a stand against Urn School or tlw Americas (SO/\) hy partic­ipating in a prollisl march  sands killed." Peacemaker rep­rnscntative Maurnen Capillo said. "A leader will be reciting namns and the group will  Saint Mary's student body in the closing of the SOA," said  support ofthe Saint Mary's student body in the closing ofthe SOA."  informa­tion con­cerning SOA.  There will be approximately 10,000 people at the protest in hopes to make more people aware of tho problnms with  
lltt1ir this w111•k.  rospond  with  'presente'  to  Capillo.  A  mili­ kneping tlrn school opPn.  
Tlw group from Saint Mary's will hold a si~11 endorsed by Board of CovPrnancf' (BOG)  symbolize that those dead are prm;cnt with us." After the march people will  Students will have an oppor­tunity to sign  Maureen Caplllo 'Peacemakers' representative  tary school on Urn Be 11 n i 11 g  The represenlativns from Saint Marv's include stud1111ls and faculty: Mauroen Capillo,  
during  tlw  protest  march  then proceed to cross lhe bor­ this  banner  Military  Katifl Sand, Nicole llurst11ll,  
Saturday  in  Fort· B11nning.  ders to the base.  and  a  petition  base  in  Hruok Warner, Kelly lgnatoski.  
This sign will bn presnnted  "Fort Benning is  a  military  this week.  On Nov. 18, there  Georgia, SOA specializes in  Sister  Linda  Kors  and  Jan  
whil1• spoakurs and bands sit  fort ­ citizens are not allowed  will be a prayer service held to  teaching torture techniques to  Pilarski.  
in front or 1•;ort Benning.  on  the property without prior  rrmiember the victims killed by  Latin American leaders. All the  The protest lasts from  Nov.  
"A vury laq{P  numbf1r of  permission.  Tho group will  SOA graduates and for those  classes arc taught in Spanish,  19 to Nov. 22.  

Exploring Attitudes About 
TURKEY 
Appearance and Eating Habits 
Mourning, fear follow 
University Counseling Center 
in quake's aftermath 
631-7336 
Room 300 

Associated Press 
Tuesdays, 4:00-5:00 p.m. 

DCZCE Turks were still trying to
Drop-In/Discussion· Series 

rebuild thflir cities from an oar­lier earthquake. mourn their
Attend One Or All Of The Following Sessions 
dead and overcome the fear 
that their homes could become deathtraps. Then it all hap­pened again. 
The earth shook, the build­ings collapsed. Now, the Turks 
(No Sign-Up Needed) 
Session I: 

are resuming a grim routine ­counting the dead and trying lo
Private Body Talk: Enhancing Body Image 
find warm tents for the home­
less. 

"rt's helpless, endless. We've seen this so many times," said Necla Suren as she watched Turkish and German rescue 
November 16 
Session II: 

teams dig through the debris of a collapsed building where one
"I don't have an eating disorder...yet!" 
person was believed to bn alive. 
It was a scene repeated throughout central l)uzce on 
Feeling Trapped When You Compare Yourself To Others 
November 23 

Sunday, a town of 70,000 peo­ple that was at the epicenter of Friday's 7.2-magnitude tem­blor. More than 374 people
Session Ill: 

were believed dead, and the toll was expected to rise.
Living In A World Where Being A "Plus Size" Is A Minus: Friday's quake worsenfld llrn already strong fear gripping
Strategies For Self-Acceptance 

Turks since Aug. 17, when a 
November 30 


7.4-magnitudn quakn dnvaslat­ed a much wider arna arou11d northwestern Turkey, (()aving morn than 17,000 ptrnplt> dead. 
"I still hadn't gone back into my home," said Suren. "Now I don't think we'll go hack for years." 
Duzce (l)OOZ-jd1), was also hit in the August quake, but this time the damage hore was far worse. Of llrn nwrn than 250 people killed in Bolu province. 187 so far were confirmed d1md in Duzcn. 
"It just gets worse and worsP. It's the fear of death," said Sukriyc Ayyildiz as she waitml for her daughter, who went to try to get a t1mt from aid work­ers. 
Ayyildiz moved back to her home 20 days ago after her husband died of injuries suf­fered in the August quake. On Friday, she was hosting gunsts. They all ran out when the quake hit and her house took on new damage. Now she's ter­rified to rnturn home. 
Turkey is still struggling to try and find shelter for all of the more than 100,000 people left homeless by the Aug. 17 quakn. 
Thousands of Duzce residnnts have been living in tent shnlt1ws and prel'abricatml homes since the earlier quake. Last wPnk. those with little damage to llrnir buildings were told to return home. , 
On Sunday, authorities wore back in Duzce sntting up tent cities once again, this time l'or the thousands or people who, whether because of new dam­age to their homes or fear of morP P.art.hquakes. refused lo walk into any building in the town. 
llusni Uncr lllmwd on a chair outsidn a collapsed rnstaurant in the nearby village ,of Kaynasli. She waited !'or thn body of her brother lo bn pulled out or a rPstaurant half-burnnd by a l'irn sparknd by Friday's quake. 
"My litllo brolhor," she wailed. "And it will continue. It will!" 
The inhabitants of tlw town walknd through the streets gaz­ing at the cracked or flattened buildings that surrounded them. 
This limu around, though, thn survivors appnarnd morn orga­nized, having loamed lessons from thn Harlier quakn in August. Hescue authorities also seemed morn prnparcd. 
f • I 
page4 
Ex Corde 
continued from page 1 
"Respect for Church authority and teaching is the first step toward maintaining Catholic identity," conservative Catholic leader Patrick Reilly told the Associated Press. Reilly is execu­tive director of the Cardinal Newman Society, which was founded in 1993 to lobby for strict application of Ex Corde. 
But this respect and the cur­rent state of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are not incompati­ble, said Saint Mary's president Marilou Eldred. She liked the document itself, but has called for an extension of debate on the implementation, so that some of the difficulties surrounding it can be resolved. 
'Tm very supportive of the intention of the proposal," she said. "I have a few misgivings about a few of the specifics of the implementation." 
Eldred expressed concern about the requirement that Catholic theologians must receive a mandate from their local bishop, saying there is no system for enforcing the norms. 
"It's not clear from the man­date how any of this would be implemented," she said. 
This is a concern shared by professor John Cavadini, chair­man of Notre Dame's theology department, who fears that focusing on the mandate and rushing to a decision will not further the admirable goals set by Ex Corde itself. 
Funding 
continued from page 1 
include a dinner for two and a one-night stay at the Morris Inn, a reserved on-campus parking spot for one year and two tickets and press box seat­ing for the home football game against Boston College on Nov. 
20. The grand prize includes two round trip airline tickets with a two-night stay at Disney World and two tickets to Notre Dame against Navy at the Citrus Bowl on Oct. 14, 2000. 
In order to increase involve­ment, some departments held their own drawings for employ­ees that donate to the United Way. 
"A lot of departments have taken it t1pon themselves to do something to promote it within their areas," said campaign chairperson Jessica Brookshire. "They want to see their area give at whatever level people are comfortable with and that's what the University states. The United Way is important to give to but 
"If it's passed, any kind of con­structive dialogue on how to attain the ideals of Ex Corde will be derailed in wrangling over the mandate," he said, noting that, while the mandate has been the source of significant controversy, it is not the goal of Ex Corde, but only a way of achieving the goal. "The man­date is a moans to the end of realizing the ideals of Ex Corde.," he said. "I do not think it is the best means to that end." 
Cavadini also called for further discussion of the ideals and implementation of Ex Corde. He proposed that theology profes­sors be drawn into the official dialogue, which up to now has been largely conducted by bish­ops and university presidents. 
"I would like an implementa­tion that arises from dialogue between the bishops and theolo­gians," he said. 
Another leading campus the­ologian, professor Joe Incandela, chairman of the Saint Mary's religious studies department, said that he likes the ideals that Ex Corde sets forth in encourag­ing Catholic universities to join in "communion" with the Church. 
But it is not that communion Catholic educators worry about; they claim to strive for that already. What concerns them is the possibility that the commu­nion could be forced, legally, by the vote Wednesday. 
"The question becomes how· and whether you need to legis­late [ideals]," Incandela said. "I think that's where people become divided and nervous." 
to give it what you're comfort­able with giving." 
The College of Business Administration, Building Services, Notre Dame Security Police and St. Michael's Laundry have offered incen­tives such as days off work to those employees who donate to the campaign. 
"If everyone did a little bit we would have no problem reach­ing our goal," said Brookshire. 
As the largest employer in St. Joseph County, Notre Dame has the opportunity to help people throughout the sur­rounding community, Brookshire said. 
"When you see all the agen­cies and all the programs it's motivation to try and raise the money -the amount of people that the money touches is unbelievable," Brookshire said. "Literally thousands of people have benefited from it." 
The Notre Dame United Way Campaign has presently raised over $200,000. In order to assist employees the Notre Dame United Way Campaign bas a Web site located at 
www.nd.edu/-uway. 


CLARIFICATION 
A Board of Governance article in Thursday's Observer inaccu­rately reported on a proposal for study days. Student Activities Board and Resid1rnce Hall Association endorsed the proposal. However, it still needs to be passed by the College. 
The proposal would make the Friday before exam week a desig­nated study day. 

The Observer . NEWS Monday, November 15, 1999 
HiIDes 
continued from page 1 
welcoming the students and introducing them to guests like Michelangelo, Charles Darwin, Emily Dickinson and Jane Austen. · 
''The word conversation and the word conversion are very closely related to each other," said Himes. 
One can feel drained at the end of a good conversation precisely because of the ongo­ing conversion. Conversation continually forces a person to switch from his or her own point of view to that of anoth­er. 
Himes emphasized the need for education to encompass great questions of human exis­tence, such as three posed by Aristotle, "'What is a human being? What's a good life for that kind of being? And how do you organize community?'" 
"If one does not address these questions now -in our American way of living ­when do they ever get a chance again?" said Himes, explaining that after students graduate, jobs, families and mortgages become the major concerns. 
"What we have is a great deal of knowledge and pre­cious little wisdom," said Himes, noting the need to lead students to the recognition that the world is complex. 
"Once you begin the process of education ... you will never, ever, lose the hunger for it. You don't lose the taste," said Himes. 
"Heaven help the country that pays its entertainers more than its educators," said Himes. Despite that, teaching is a wildly self-indulgent pro­fession, he explained. A teacher reads interesting things and explains them to a captive audience. 
However, there is one reason for a Christian to learn any­thing -to teach it to someone else, said Himes. 
Preceding Himes' address, the Alumni Association's "Outstanding Educator's Award" was presented to Frances Kasperek Reinke, who teaches biology and coaches academic teams at Clark High School in Whiting, Ind. 
"We all want to make a dif­ference in every child's life," said Reinke -who has been a teacher for 34 years -when she received the award. 
The award presentation and Himes' address were part of the annual "Excellence in Teaching Conference" spon­sored by the Alumni Association for primary and secondary school teachers, principals and counselors. 
Voice recorder yields no clues 
Associated Press 
NEWPORT, R.I. 

Cockpit voice recordings from EgyptAir Flight 990 show the pilot and co-pilot talking "like pals" before something goes wrong and both men des­perately try to fix a problem that soon caused the plane to crash into the Atlantic, a source close to the investiga­tion said Sunday. 
"Something happens. Alarms go off. Both work to try to fix it," the source said. "There is some kind of problem that they're dealing with. H gets progressively worse. And the tape stops." 
In a statement Sunday night, 
National Transportation Safety 
Board chairman James Hall 
said no conclusions could be -drawn from the initial review of the tape. The recorder was 
found to be in good condition 
and it provided about 31 1/2 
minutes of data, he said. 
The tape provides no evi­
dence of an intruder in the 
cockpit or of any fighting 
among the crew, the source 
said. 

rt was reviewed by American 
and Egyptian officials, includ­
ing representatives from the 
FBI. 

Hall said a Cockpit Voice 
Recorder Group, directed by 
the NTSB and including repre­
sentatives from Egypt, the 
Federal Aviation Administra­
tion, Boeing Aircraft and Pratt 
& Whitney Engines, would 
meet Monday to begin a thor­
ough review of the recorder. 
After a two-week search, the recorder was found Saturday night by a remote-operatP-d robot, and on Sunday it was delivered to National Transportation Safety Board headquarters in Washington. 
The New-York-to-Cairo jet­liner crashed off Massachusetts' Nantucket Island on Oct. 31, killing all 217 people aboard. 
Preliminary data from the plane's flight data recorder showed that the Boeing 767's autopilot was switched off and the plane was put into a dive so steep and fast that passengers would briefly have felt weight­less. And both engines were shut off before the aircraft climbed briefly out of' its dive and then turned and dropped into the ocean. 



WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Basketball buddies back Bradley 
NFW YOBK 

rlw lights w1•nl up and Urn l'ans roarnd as llill llradl«•y took t·m1tPr court Su11day 011 tho hardwoo<I lloOI~ of Madison Sq11ar1• Gardrrn with his old Knirk tna111maL1!s, Earl l'vlonron, Willis lk1•d. l>id-; Barnett and Walt h·azil'I'. But this was no 1970s 11ashback or ordinary rPunion. This was ct $1.5 million fund-raiser int1•1Hli)d to lwlp Bradll'y go from Madison Squarl' Card1·n to thP Bose Garden, from h<'ing rnlll'CI "Dollar Bill" on llw court to bHing addrPss1•d as "!\fr. Pr1!sident" in tlrn Oval ()f'(if'.(•, Tlw l'Vf\lll -attP1HIPd by 5,000 people -inrlurlnd tril1t1t.ns, prnisn and rnmi11iscnnc1is from P.'<-lnammatm; and f'ormnr rivals. "You art> what. ,\mPrir.a 11n1ids," l'ornwr Celtics grPat Bill llussPII told BrndlPy aftEr ribbing ilim !"or his plodding styln. "/\s slow as he was, 111• had Lo haw \foa-ipli1w." Tim nvent offnred tlw slH•Pr nowlty of' s1•pi11g so many !Pgcndary athldPs s1wak so Ploqtwntly, and with one voin•, about p11litil's and tlw isstws. ''l'vn b1wn intP11tiormlly apolitical my whole lifo. so this is srary for t11t'." ;ulmittml l'orm<1r l.os l\ngdns Lakf'r Kan:,~111 /\hclul ,Jabar. 
Experts to analyze EgyptAir voice recorder 
NEWPOHT. H.J. 

lnvesligators lwgan working on tlw cockpit voirn rnl'ordm l'rom Egypti\lr Flight 990 Sunday, hoping llH• sncond so-called hl,u-k box rPtriPVPd f'rom t.hP ocnan l'loor would hnlp Pxplain tlw airlinpr's mystPrious plunge f'rom ttw skv. Af'tPr a t\'\'o-w•~ek search, thn rf'rord;,r was f'ound Saturday night by a n•mot,i-opPralPd robot, and on Sunday it was dP!iv1•n•d lo National Transportation Safoty Board hPadquartPrs in Washington. NTSB Chairman .lanrns llall said scientists would lwgin analyzing th,1 record1)r imnwdiatnly to SPP ir ils tap,, was danrngPd by the destruclion of tlw plaiw or by its lengthy submersion al a dnplh of' 2:iO 1'1i11L. "I think within the next 24 hours we will be able to characterize the con­Wnts on tlw tape," llall said. 
Study: Gene flaw may promote cancer 
NEWYOHK 

Scim1tists havn idf~ntilied an inherited genet­ic mutation that may make people more vul­rwrable to colon cancer. possibly playing a rolP in up to IJ pPrccnl of cases diagnosnd Parh vear in Lim Unitml States. If confirmed, tlw w;1rk might sonwday help doctors idnntify patif'nts who should be tracked especially clos<-ly for Parly signs of thl1 disnasn. The mutation apparc•ntly promotes cancnr by hin­dPring a prornss that kcc1ps cell growth under ro11lrol. said l>r. Kenneth OITit or tho Mc•11111rial Sloan-Kettering Canel'!' Center in New York. IIn and his collnagucs prcsnnt the work in Monday's issun of the journal Cancer HPstiarch. 
•tW•Wli&tllJM•ttt.
Dow AMEx: 
823.07 

JONES e3.K4 
Nasdaq:

+174,02 
3221.15 

Q 
•23.R6 
NYSE: 
6J6.67 
, 7.2R 
S&P 500: Composite 1396.06 
Volume:

10769.32 , 14.60 897,265,000 VOLUME LEADERS 
~2HtW Il!&lH ~ £W!il I ~twiSil llH~I 
IN'l''IL CORI' INTC -t.09 -l.H.75 16,U 01'.LL COMPU'tltR n1tL -) . 811 -1. liB1! n.1s 8C.t.Ha0JPT UIC ..rr . 0.9QIISl ,. 50
...10.,, cmn,;u 11arrwu.1 ClffA •U.06 +1.2550 J. 38 MICJ.080M COJ\P -0.0 -O.ii'.310 89'.19 GIA'>IIAL C:14)18tNO """ +l.fil'7S JI.SO
a,u,1: 1'10 ,551 CtaC'O H'l'l'&JUI C8CO -0.31 -0.llOO u.u 
LtJCDn' T&CII INC LU -.a. 90 -2.1075 73,.15
,u,., -.rn C'OllP 1W> . 1.91 +a. ,o,o fli.88 
Qtal.COHII JNC QCOIII +9 .,1 +12. 5000 371.00 
•

orld 
10n 
Monday, Novcmher l5, I 999 COMPILED FROM THE 0BSERVEH WIRE SERVICES page 5 
UKRAINE 

Poll: President to beat Communist 
AssociaLcd Press 
KIEV 
President Leonid Kuchma was heading for a socond lorm Sunday with a convincing victory over a Communist who frightened many voters with his calls Lo Lum hack to tho Soviet era, according to early results. 
Wilh about 26 percent or lhc votes counted, Kuchnia had won 56.:"i pPrcPnt and Communist Party chiel' Petro Symoncnko had :H.5 per­ccn t, the Central Elections Commission reported. Vol.er turnout was un impressive 73.8 percent, it said. 
Earlier, a nationwide exit poll showed Kuchma with 59. 3 pnrcent of the vote against 3(i.4 percent for Symonnnko. The poll by the Kinv International Institute of Sociology and two polling companies had a margin ol' error of 
1.3 porcPnt. 
Victory had been expPcted for Kuchma, despite widespread unhappiness with his failurn to rescue the economy or crack down on rampant corruption. The 61-year-old former missile plant director focused his campaign on warnings that Symonenko would revive the restrictions of the Soviet em. 
Kuchma has pledged to continue market reforms and a pro-Western for­eign policy, which cen­ters on close tics with western Europe, the United States and NATO. Rut Kuchma failed to revive the economy or crack down on rampant corruption during his first term and most analysts doubt there will be a dra­matic turnaround. 
"The approach to eco­nomic development must change," said a leading Symonenko ally, parlia-

Jackson rallies for expelled students 
Lo the expulsions. which he considers unfairly harsh. 
The six students were expelled for two school years after allegedly taking part in a brawl in the stands at a football game Sept. 17. A seventh withdrew from school during expulsion hearings. The students were black, but Jackson has said it was not a question of racism but whether the stu­dents were treated fairly. 
Jackson led a similar march Nov. 7, demanding that the students be returned to the classroom. Decatur high schools were closed the next two days after school officials feared foreign trade. 
Despite widespread dis­satisfaction with Kuchma, a return to Soviet-style lifo seemed oven more fright­ening to some Ukrainians. Even impoverished Ukrainians were voling for Kuchma on Sunday, seeking tfl avert a commu­nist comeback and pre­sr,rvo whatover stability they might have. 
trouble because of .Ja1:kson ·s presence. 
In the meantime, Gov. Georgi• Hyan steppcid in to negotiate an agreenwnt. i\t his prodding -and undnr a national spotlight -tlrn local school board voted lo trim the expulsions to orrn school ynar and let the stu­dents attend alternative education programs. 
But .Jackson wants the students returned more quickly. lie and state school Superintendent Glnnn "Max" McGee have pro­posed creating a special panel to review the stu­d<mt's conduct and grades in .January. 
As.~ociatc:d Pre•• 
DEC/\TUR, Ill. 
A standoff over the expul­sion of six blar,k students for fighting continued Sundav as the Hev . .Jesse Jackson led a chanting group ol' some 2,000 people through the streets of this blue-collar town. 
"Let it be clear," .Jackson told the crowd before the afternoon march. "We'll be back again and again until our children are back in school." 
"Too many children are being left behind -sus­pended, expelled, jailed." he continued, saying that the 

chiltlrcn in Decatur "deserve individual due process and not group jus­tice or mob injustice." 
The marchers, many of whom came by the busload from out of the area, chant­ed, "Save the tlream, save the children. reclaim the children." and "Leave no child behind, keep hope alive." 
With that lhc throng began its slow march from the Decatur Civic Center to 
McArthur  Iligh  School,  
singing  "We  Shall  
Overcome."  

Jackson invited onlookers to join in the march. his lat­est effort to draw attention 
ment's hard-line speaker Oleksandr Tkachenko. 
Symonenko, who tried at the last minute to con­vince voters that they had nothing to fear, admitted Sunday that voter fears were too great. 
"I did not fully succeed," Symonenko said after casting his ballot. 
Symonenko had pledged to maintain rights to pri­vate property, support pri­vate business and restore churches despite the com­munists' atheist policies. 
But the communist pro­gram also called for a state-planned economy with heavy subsidies for major industries, price controls, halting privatiza­tion of state assets. a ban on land sale·s·a11d"a likely government monopoly on 
I ' 
• I 

page 6 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, November 15, 1999 
DOMINICA 
Caribbean governillents offer citizenship ­
Associate<! Press 
HOSEAU 

In a rapidly globalizing world, some Caribbean islands are dis­covering a new business: selling "economic citizenships." 
For about $50,000, a legal passport -under a new name, perhaps -can be had in as little as three weeks. 
The government of Dominica advertises its "economic citizen­shiµ program" as a "passµort to paradise" -a not inacr.urate description of the lush, moun­tainous island dotted with waterfalls, hot springs and black vokanic beaches. 
But critics, led by Washington, say it is a racket that attracts criminals, be they corrupt offi­cials from the former Soviet Union or lax evaders from the UnitHd States. 
"Offshore financial centers and 'economic r.itizenships' granted by some Caribbean nations are being exploited by international criminals to con­ceal their identities and their illicit financial gains," said Emilia Puma, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Embassy in Barbados, which is responsible for relations with states in the eastern Caribbean. "These nations become safe havens for fugitives." 
The Caribbeans argue the citi­zenship programs bring in capi-. tal at a time when their fragile economies are being battered by globalization. especially a suc­cessful U.S. challenge to Europe's preferential terms for Caribbean fugitive, who sought to avoid extradition from Spa.iu by becoming a citizen of this former 13ritish colony. 

Skase fled to Spain eight years ago after the collapse of his Qintcx media, hotel and resort empire left him with corporate debts of almost $1 billion. 1-Ie reportedly carried $6.5 million 
in cash, art 

bananas Dominica's  ''These nations have  and antiques. In an inter­ 
biggest source  become safe havens for  view. Timothy  
of foreign income.  fugitives."  insisted Skase "isn't a crimi- 
In  a  report  nal  - he's a  
in March, Lhe  Emilia Puma  fugitive."  
U.s. State Department  U.S. Embassy spokewoman  It's impossi­ble to say how  
for  the  first  many people  
time cited eco­ have  taken  
nomic citizen- advantage of  

ship as an impediment to Dght­the Caribbean citizenship pro­ing international crime. It said grams, because not all rases are Dominica had reportedly sold done openly. citizenships to up to 300 Dominica officially has about Russians, "increasing suspicions 1,000 economic citizens, with of Hussian money-laundering" fewer than 100 actually living on on the island. the island, Timothy said. But he 
Dominica's finance minister, admitted that more may have Julius Timothy, said the govern­been issued by renegade officials ment has stopped granting citi­like an ex-police officer caught zenship to Russians. in Canada with dozens of blank 
But he defended selling a citi­passports. zenship this year to Christopher Grenada, farther south, says it Skase, Australia's most wanted has 250 economic citizens. 
AFGHANISTAN 
U.N. imposes economic sanctions 
Associated Press 
KABUL 

The United Nations imposed sanctions on Afghanistan on Sunday for refusing to hand over suspected terrorist Osama bin Laden, prompting thousands of protesters into the streets of Kabul shouting "Death to America" and stoning the empty 
U.S. Embassy. 
The sanctions took effect at midnight EST following last­minute pleas from the ruling Taliban army. They are intended to press the Taliban to deliver the Saudi exile to the United States or a third country to stand trial on charges of terrorism. 
Protesters swarmed into the streets of the· Afghan capital, burning U.S. flags and shouting anti-American slogans. They accused the United Nations of being a "puppet" of the United States. 
One young Taliban soldier, his head wrapped in the traditional turban, shouted "long live Osama" -the man the United States believes masterminded last year's twin bombings of U.S. Embassies in Kenya and Tanzania that killed 224 people. Others shouted, "Osama is a great Muslim!" 
The mob of men. many of 


them wearing the traditional tur­ban. baggy pants and long shirt, tried to storm a World Food Program office but was stopped by Taliban soldiers who fired automatic rifles into the air. 
I 

Timothy said the Caribbean states got the idea from coun­tries like the United States, Canada, Ireland and Australia, which offer "investor visas." 
"It's the same thing," said Timothy. "Only we ask for $50,000 and the Americans for a million." 
American officials say that applicants for U.S. citizenship are carefullv screened and that the United States does not offer instant dtizenship. 
The C.S. program applies to approved people who invest $1 million in a business employing at least 10 people or $500,000 in designated economically deprnssed areas. In two years, the invest.or can apply for pflf· manent residencf', and then must wait five more years to apply for cilizenship. 
for a price 
"It gives foreign investors tho opportunity to earn an immi­grant visa by putting their own capital at risk and creating jobs in the United States," said Russell Bergeron, a spokesman for I.he U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service. 
Dominica was one of the first countries in t.he Caribbean to invite economic citizens .in 1992, targeting people in Asia at a time when I long Kong residents were nervous about the British colony's impending handover to China in l 997. 
Today, St. Kitts and Nevis, Grenada and Belize all have citi­zenship programs. Experts say passports also are available from other Caribboan countries, 
including  the  Dominican  
11cpublic and Antigua  and  
Barbuda.  

VISUALIZE 
YOUR FUTURE AS A 
CHIROPRACTIC PHYSICIAN 
LOGAN OFFERS: 
• 
Prominent, outstanding faculty. A strong tradition of academic excellence and student success. 

• 
Modern state-of-the-art facilities. 

• 
Financial aid to approximately 90"/4 of our students. 

• 
Hands-on clinical experiences. Logan also offers a B.S. in Human Biology and an Accelerated Science Program (ASP). 


Prepare for an exciting career in health care. 
LOGAN~ 
COLLEGE t Of CHIROPRACTIC
. \l;jj/;/ 
1-800-533-9210 
http://www.logan.edu 


1851 Schoettler Rd. • Chesterfield, MO 63017 Phone:(314) 227-2100 • FAX:(314) 207-2425 loganadm@logan.edu . A, E.qual Opportunity lnstit.ution ofHigher Educat.Jon 
ATTENTION STUDENTS: 
I WHYSELLYOURUSEDTEXTBOOKSBACKTOTHEBOOKSTOREFOR I LESS WHEN YOU CAN SELL THEM DIRECTLY TO ANOTHER STUDENT? 
1  CAMPUSMONSTER.COM ALLOWS STUDENTS TO SELL THEIR USED TEXTBOOKS TO OTHER STUDENTS. YOU WILL MAKE MORE MONEY AND YOUR FELLOW STUDENTS WILL SAVE MORE! IT'S THAT SIMPLE.  
' ' 1  LOG ON NOW AND LIST YOUR FALL SEMESTER TEXTBOOKS AND GET ENTERED FOR THE CHANCE TO WIN YOUR NEXT SEMESTERS BOOKS FOR FREE!!!! THAT'S RIGHT. WE WILL HOLD A DRAWING ON DECEM­BER 30, 1999 TO FIND THE WINNER OF OUR" SEMESTER FOR FREE" CONTEST YOU WILL RECEIVE 1 ENTRY FOR EVERY BOOK YOU LIST. THE MORE BOOKS YOU LIST THE BETTER YOUR CHANCES OF WIN­NING.  
WHEN YOU'RE THERE, GET THE LATEST SCOOP ON WHAT'S HAPPEN­ING AT YOUR COLLEGE OR AT CAMPUSES AROUND THE COUNTRY. THERE'S ALSO A SECTION WITH UP TO DATE SCORES AND COLLEGE NEWS.  
FROM TEXTBOOK SWAPPING, COLLEGE APPAREL AND GAME TICKETS TO THE LATEST CAMPUS NEWS, IT'S ALL JUST A CLICK AWAY AT CAM­PUSMONSTER.COM  


PUSfflDDSTDR.GDffl 
"If we don't have it, you can't get it!" 
I
I 

J 

'I.
.... 
I' 

Monday, November 15, 1999 The Observer . ADVERTISEMENT page 7 

CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL 

Fora -ane World 
CONCERNS 

Faculty Opportunities 
On behalf of the Center, I am pleased to take this occasion to thank faculty who have been involved in Center work over the years and to invite those who have not had the opportunity before, to do so this year. Since we opened our doors in 1983, the Center has provided opportunities for faculty involvement in addition to facilitating acad­emic offerings. Working with Liaisons in each of the Colleges, complemented by the recently-established Faculty Fellows program (see box on this page), the Center coop­erates with faculty to incorporate social concerns into their teaching, research and advising. Workshops and one-on-one consultations on the pedagogy of experiential learning and community-based learning (often called service-learning) provide a major vehicle for this work. 
In addition, because of the generosity of donors, the Center has begun an annual faculty competition for the design of new courses or major re-design of existing courses that link the course with community opportunities in social concerns. The 1999-2000 award winners are James M. Ashley, Dept. of Theology; Bonnie Fremgen, Dept. of Management; Stuart Greene and Sean O'Brien, University Writing Program; Terence T. Ow, Dept. of Management; Barbara S. Szweda, School of Law; and Christine M. Venter, University Writing Program. Information about the 2000-2001 year competition will be available in early spring semester. 
A special partnership between the Center and the South Bend Heritage Foundation, a community development corporation on the west side, allows for faculty involvement through course-based projects for students as well as for research possibilities. 
The Center also invites faculty to serve as resources for the Center in a variety of ways. Some serve as facilitators for "The Church and Social Action" (Urban Plunge), opening their honies for a one-evening gathering to provide students with an occasion to further their reflection and analysis of their city experience. Some faculty offer their expertise as guest lecturers for preparatory sessions of the experiential learning cours­es the Center facilitates. Others serve as advisors to the service and social action groups and some offer directed readings on related social concerns topics. 
There are many ways to get involved and I hope you will choose one or more. I look forward to working with you. 
?~~wr 
Kathleen Maas Weigert, Ph.D. 
Associate Director, Academic Affairs and Research 
(631-5319 or Kathleen.M.Wiegert.2@nd.edu) 
The 1999­2000 course development grant recipients: 
Bottom row, 
Barbara Szweda, 
Christine Venter, 
Terence Ow, and 
Stuart Greene. 
Top row, Matt 
Ashley with Kathleen Maas 
Weigert. 
(missing: Bonnie 
Frerngen and 
Sean O'Brien) 

The Center for Social Concerns provides 
y, IL

educational experiences in social concerns inspired by Gospel values and Catholic social teachings. Central to this process is enhancing the spiritual and intellectual awareness of students, faculty, staff, and alumni/ae about today's complex social realities, calling us all to service and action for a more just and humane world. 
l • 

page 8 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, November 15, 1999 
Floridians fight to keep tourists out of neighborhoods 
Associated Press 
DAVENPORT, Fla. 

Almost every other week, Judy and Bob Earl get new neigh­bors. 
People roll up from the air­port in a rented van, sometimes by the dozen, and pile out with suitcases and travel guides. A couple of weeks later, they leave and new visitors replace them. 
It wasn't what the Earls bar­gained for three years ago when they moved into Ridgewood Lakes. a gated community of $200,000 homes, tennis courts · and a golf course. And they aren't alone. 
Parts of Polk County have become magnets for tourists vis­iting nearby Walt Disney World and other attractions. Permanent residents complain of being duped into buying homes near rental properties that have overgrown grass, uncollected garbage, loud par­ties at night and nude sun­bathers, 
A lawsuit is currently before the Second Court of Appeals in Lakeland. 
"L don't care if it's next to Cinderella's Castle, this neigh­borhood is for permanent resi­dents," Mrs. Earl said. 

The lawsuit was brought by Robert and Leah Teves, who Jive in the same development as the Earls, against Roger and Charlene Berry, who rent out a house next to the Teves. The suit is being financed by the development's permanent resi­dents. 
A judge ruled in favor of the residents last year, agreeing that the property owners' covenants .don't allow business activity such as renting. 
The Berrys appealed. If the appellate court upholds the decision, it will affect "the own­ers of thousands of properties 
I 1 

PHILIPPINES 
Rebels occupy village, block road 
Associated Press 
COTABATO 

About 100 Muslim rebels occupied a village and blocked a major road Sunday in the southern Philippine island of Mindanao, but later withdrew after a firefight with govern­ment troops that killed at least two people, officials said. 
Military and local officials said the Moro Islamic Liberation Front rebels held about 80 villagers hostage in a church but freed them unharmed before withdrawing from the village of Tibao, 580 miles south of Manila. 
The guerrillas herded the villagers, including women and children, into a Catholic church and asked some male residents to dig foxholes along the barricaded road, said Capt. Onting Alon. an army spokesman. 
A firefight ensued when government troops arrived, 

leaving a rebel and a militia­man dead and three people wounded, including a police­man, officials said. 
The rebels denied holding the villagers hostage, saying they fled into the church to avoid getting caught in the crossfire. 
The fighting Sunday is the latest in sporadic clashes between the rebels, who want to establish an independent Islamic state in Mindanao, and government soldiers. 
throughout the state of Florida, as well as the vacation rental management industry and the Florida tourism industry as a whole," attorneys for the Florida Vacation Rentals Managers Association said in a friend-of­the court brief. 
In Florida, only Monroe County, which includes the Florida Keys, has severely restricted short-term rentals. 
Polk County commissioners tried last year to restrict short­term rentals to specific neigh­borhoods, but a dozen rental home owners filed suit this month challenging the ordi­nance. 
The ordinance infringes on "homeowners rights ... and their ability to resell their homes," the lawsuit said. 
Visitors love the rental oppor­tunity. 
Barry and Davina Dobbs of Grimsby, England, rented a two­story house near the Earls' home for two weeks, bringing along their three children, his sister and brother-in-law and their three children. They paid $9,000 for a package that also included airfare and a rental van. 
"It's brilliant here," Dobbs said of the house. "It's got air conditioning." 
Student & Fae/Staff /Family Tennis Clinic 
Monday, November 15 6:00-7: l 5pm Eck Tennis Pavilion 
Stroke Analysis 
& 
Playing Situations 
Presented by : Men's & Women's Varsity Tennis Teams Free ofcharge • Open to all Dependants 23 years ofage andyounger No advance registration necessary • Bringyour own Racquet Tennis Shoes Required • No Running Shoes Allowed 

For more information, please call the RecSports Office at 1-6l00 

Monday, November IS, 1999 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
CHINA 
Hong Kong 01edia move Blay affect independent press 
Associated l're5s 
HONC KONG 

Somu in !long Kong's vibrant 1rnws media worry lhe commu­nist rngime in Beijing is laking the first stnps toward mining in Urn only l'rne prnss in China's vast nxpamms. 
Thn territory's govnnrnrnnt rncnntly jolted its broadcasting service by announcing the reas­signment of its outspoken dirnctor, Cheung Man-yo11, to hncmne I long Kong's trade rep­rmmntative in Tokyo. 
The move of a broadcast nxecutivtJ long criticized by pro­B11iji ng forces hem added to journalists' unnasc because it conrns as the government is colhwting public comment on a propos1tl to s11t up a govcrn­rrwnt-appointnd prnss watch­dog. 
Tlw press council. proposed by un indepondnnt committee studying ways to protect citi­zens' µrivat:y, could hund out h1rnvy fines for practir.os it found unr.thical. 
Many local media figures fear it could put a chill on news reporting. 
"It's dangerous to have a powerful organization like that, with p't!wers to investigate, adjudicate and punish," said Fung Wai-kong, a journalist for 11 years who currently writes editorials for the sensationalist Chinese-language Apple Daily. 
"Whatever kind of political leaning it has, it's going to have a very direct impact on the press -what people can know, and what they can't know," Fung said. 
Chris Yeung, political editor of the English-language South China Morning Post, said more stories may "have to go to the lawyers before they're pub­lished, or evun beforn they' re being written." 
The new U.S. consul general, Michael Klosson, also has criti­ciwd the idea of a prnss coun­cil. 
"If Hong Kong wants to be woel'ully misunderstood in the rest of the world, there is no better way to do so than to put on media freedom despite in place a government-appoint­apparent pressure from Beijing, ed statutory body wielding but the tribunal idea and penalties to 'improve' the Cheung's transfer have the press," he said. media nervous. 

The Hong Kong press prides Reacting to Cheung's depar­itself as one of Asia's freest, ture, the Apple Daily published even after China regained its a cartoon showing a smiling sovereignty two Hong Kong years ago with C h i e f
"Whatever kind of
guarantees that Executive 
Hong Kong political leaning it has, Tung Chee­could keep its it's going to have a very hwa and a 
freewheeling I o c a I
direct impact on the
capitalist Beijing 
lifestyle for at press -what people adviser cel­
least 50 years. can know and what ebrating While China next to a
they can't know. " 
tolerates zero crushed dissent at home, tank with a Hong Kong Fun Wal-kong crooked newspapers and logo of the
Hong Kong ioumalist 

magazines con­government tinue to carry broadcast-embarrassing criticisms of er, Radio Television Hong Hong Kong and mainland offl­Kong. ci al s, as well as occasional Influential pro-Beijing forces exposes of government wrong­have long attacked Cheung, the dr>ing. broadcasting director for 13 
Hong Kong officials have years, for allowing RTHK to air never blatantly clamped down criticisms of !long Kong and 
holiday gifts here today, gone tomorrow. 
HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE.. 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
JIIIOH: ,n-6J16 • #W1W.nlh1..tart.ctni 

get in a 
holiday
mood... 


The VarsityShop 
In the Joyce Center Phone; 631-8560 
f=1follett 
NEW l USED Cou.&QE TEXTIOOKI 
.com 

Chinese of'ficials instead of' 
helping promote government 
policies. 
The station runs as a govern­ment department, but is guar­anteed full editorial indepen­dence. 
RTHK journalists say censor­ship has not been a problem since the territory's handover from British control. Its TV cur­rent affairs programs continue to broadcast footage of rallies calling for the resignations of leaders in China. 
Its English radio news still calls China's crushing of the 1989 pro-democracy protests in Tiananmen Square a "mas­sacre." Beijing characterizes those peaceful demonstrations of a decade ago as an attempt lo overthrow the government. 
Cheung told reporters shn had felt political pressure on her job, but she and other gov­ernment officials, including Tung, insisted the transfer was routine and had nothing to do with politics. 
To calm fears, the govern­ment later named Cheung's deputy, Chu Pui-hing, to the post -a move HTIIK staff wel­comed as a guarantee of con­tinued independence for the station. 
Some journalists say their profession needs to worry more about policing itself'. so the gov­ernment won't have an excuse to meddle. 
With just 6.8 million peopln, Hong Kong has 45 daily and weekly newspapers and three TV stations, making it one of Asia's more competitive mar­kets. Some journalists say thut is leading to sensationalistic coverage pandering to the low­est tastes. 
Sex and violence are the standard fare on the front pages of the territory's two top selling papers, Oriental Daily News and Apple Daily. Seeking to boost ratings, Asia Television recently replaced professional journalists with a veteran vari­ety show host and a former beauty queen as anchors of its prime time news. 
"If we lose our credibility, we'll have a weaker case to protect press freedom against government infringement," said Mak Yin-ting, chairwoman of the Hong Kong Journalists Association. 

.. 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 10 BSERVER Monday, November 15, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
PO Box~ Norre Oam,. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dam,. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michelle Krupa 
MANAGING tDlTOR S\;SINESS MANAliF.R 
M. Shannon Ryan David Rogero 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR Laura Perelle 
NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen SPORTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler 
SCENE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAINT MARY"S EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Ke,'in Dalum 

ADVER11SING MANAGER: Bryan Lutz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER, Bret Huelar SYsrEMs ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers Wt:B ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushro 
CONTROLLER: Timothy Lane GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe M udler 

CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL JNF0..............631-7471 
FAX ........................................................631-6927 ADVEROSING ..................................... 631 -6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc. nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITORIAssT. ME. ................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................ 631-5 313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 

VIEWPOINT ................................................ 631-5303 
observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS.................... ...................................631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu ScENE.. .......................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's............................................. 631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISlRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http:l!obm-ver.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as canoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rares of prim ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives ro search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the smdenrs ofrhe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Edirorial coment, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing EdimrJ Assistant Managing Editor and departmem editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoinr space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. utters ro the Ediror must be signed and must include conra.cr information. 
Question; regarding Observer policies shoul.d be direct­ed to !:.ditor in ChiefMichelle Kr1tpa 

Despite the current crop of 2000 presidential candidates doing the shaking-hands-and-kissing-babies act in New Hampshire, where the primary election is four months away, the 
Mike Marchand 
biggest political news of the fort­night was not a 

Questionable
policy debate nor a 

Freedoms
stance on issues. 
George W. Bush didn't know who Atal Bihari Vajpayee is. 

WHAT? You mean YOU don't know either? Why, he's the recently reelect­ed prime minister of India. EVERYONE knows that. When taken to task by Andy Hiller of WHDH in Boston two weeks ago, Bush also failed to recall the names of the leader of Chechnya (Aslan Maskhadov) or the general who seized control of Pakistan last month (Pervez MusharraO, and the best he could do when asked to name the pres­ident of Taiwan (Lee Teng-hui) was, "Lee." 
Many Democrats are hoping and Republicans are fearing that Bush's bombing of the impromptu foreign leader quiz will start to make him morph into Dan Quayle misspelling "potato." Quayle's chances of regain­ing any nationwide political relevance after that monumental brain fart are about as slim as his odds of being able to correctly spell "Atal Bihari Vajpayee." Democrats are thrilled and Republicans scared of the prospect that George W. Bush, the frontrunner in both the Republican and overall races, might suffer the same fate. 
OK, first, how many of you would have known those guys' names? Be honest. Truthfully, I remembered Lee's whole name, which means I outdid Bush by one Teng-hui. I most likely would have thought Maskhadov plays for the Detroit Red Wings, and that Vajpayee or Musharraf were math­ematicians who just discovered the trillionth digit of pi. Second, how many of you have, at any time, confused George W. Bush with his father, ex­President George Bush? I remember a poll done of perspective voters not too long ago, when asked why someone would want to vote for George W. Bush, one of the more popular answers polled was, "His leadership in the Gulf War." It speaks volumes of either voters' intelligence or the fact that George W. should start tacking on a "Jr." to his last name. 
Junior's flunking the quiz is especial­ly surprising considering his dad's encyclopedic knowledge of foreign leaders. Then again, the only time Senior Bush flexed his foreign policy muscles was against Saddam Hussein. A real tough job that was, what with Iraqi soldiers surrendering to news crews. 
Then the economy bit the dust, vot­ers said goodbye, and now he has a memoir out. 
Ronald Reagan would sometimes forget the names of his own Cabinet members. But every voter and every world leader knew exactly where he stood on foreign policy issues. One minute after he was inaugurated, Iran released the American hostages they were holding because they knew Reagan's stance. 
Additionally, his leadership is why America won the Cold War. The fact that he might not have known the , name of Russia's minister of defense was inconsequential. 
And then there's Bill Clinton. As a candidate, Clinton promised all over himself about how great his foreign policy would be. Way to wrap up that whole Bosnia/Serbia/Kosovo thing, Mr. President. Glad you got it fixed. We should have fixed East Timor the same way. (And if Andy Hiller asked him to recall the names of women he's dropped the First Boxers in front of, his answers would be more inept than George W. Bush's. But l digress.) 
Does George W. Bush not remember­ing who Atal Bihari Vajpayee is dis­qualify him to be the president? Using the previous presidents as examples, obviously not. Bush, Sr. would have passed easily; he's only the fifth one­term president. Reagan would have flunked embarrassingly, but he passed the real test with flying colors. Clinton would have bragged about how well he would have passed; judging by the fact that he needed cruise missiles to achieve at best a temporary peace in the former Yugoslavia, he has failed. However, Bush, Jr. has yet to outline a clear, unabashed, Reagan-esque for­eign policy. Until or unless he does, the only things that people will think of wheh they think of his foreign policy are his almost comically inept respons­es like, "Wait, wait, is this 50 ques­tions?" 
Do the names of these people even matter that much? Apparently not, considering Nakasha Ahmad men­tioned Pervez Musharrafs coup in her Viewpoint piece on Thursday only by saying, "A general is now in charge of the country." Both of her parents are Pakistani, so she almost certainly knows his name; however, she didn't even feel it was important enough to mention it. 
So, does this mean that George W. Bush will bumble his way into Quayle­ian political obscurity? It's unlikely. After all, everyone knows how to spell "potato." Only one in a thousand peo­ple would know who Atal Bihari Vajpayee is. And you can bet your Teng-hui on that. 
Mike Marchand is an off-campus junior English major who knows how to spell "potatoe" but is so burned oul by ·his last week ofclasses that he ·s not sure who wrote this column. Whoever's it is. it appears every other Monday. Mike's e-mail address is Marchand.3@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column 
are those of the author and not 
necessarily those of The Observer. 
SCOTT ADAMS

DILBERT 

WHERE DID ALICE GO? 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Viva la huelga [Long live the strike/!" 
Caesar Estrada Chavez leader of the United Farm Workers 

r--------------:-:-----:-.-,-.---------------------------------------------­
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE Monday, November 15, 1999 BSERVER page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Monk's 'prudence' is weak support 
Tim Jll"(•sidPnt of' NotrP Dame ffathrr Edward Malloy) correctly points out that Tlw Ohsnrv,,r editorial staff enjoys as much autonomy with rq~ard to Pditorial and news content as editors of many newspapers. lie is also correct llrnl at many newspapers the relationship between tlrn pub­lislwr and llw advertising director is different than lhn publisher's rela­tionship lo Urn Pditorial board. 
But wlwl. follows from tliai'! Does it follow that the Officers of a Catholic Univnrsily should makn the prudential decision to ban all advertising, sight 11ns11Pn, from a group whoso "p,~rspoctive'' and interests in "influ­nncn" tl111y consickr counter to their sense of Catholicism? Does it follow that tlw prnsichrnt of the Univ11rsity should prove himself so completely unwilling to disruss tho delibnrative processns leading to this prudential dPdsion" 
Tlw prPsidPnl of Notre Dame has the 11xecutivR authority to make his d<icisions stick and stand. But Im has no power to legitimate his decisions si111ply IJy c:alling Llw111 "prudont.'' If a Catholic university is not a plar.c wluin' tlHi <'oncPpl and prncticn o{' prudence is a topic for open and f'ren dl'!iall~ and d isrnssio11 leading, wlwn justil1ed, to modification of adminis­lrativ11 polici1)s, then a Catholic university is surely a contradiction in tnrms. Is that what tlH' president of Notre Dame intends? 
Ed Manier Professor, Philosophy • November 11, 1999 

Keep acade01ic freedo01 
The irony, Wl'rt' il not so disturb­ing, might lw amusing-. Thn Wml!rnsday. Nov. I 0, edition of The Obsnrv,ir contuilwd articles which d1•scritwd, rnsp1wtiv1ily, thn "Countdown lo Hx Corde Hcclesiae" and l'rnsid1int Emeritus Fathnr IIPshurgil's nomination for a Congressional Cold Medal. Tim irony is this: Just as our nation prnpares to lrnstow on Father Ilesburgh one of' its grnatesl civilian honors in recogni­tion of his morrnmtous contributions to higlmr nducation and civil rights, our Church preparns lo betray one of' the ideals for which Father llesburgh has rcpeatodly fought -acadomic f'nimlom for Catholic Universities. 
Wlmn Father Sorin wandered onto this piticn or lmliana wildnrness more than a c1intury and a hair ago, he drcanwd that a grnat university wm!ld grow and LhriVtl iwrc. Wlwn lw lrncame prnsidm1t of Notrn Dame in llJ52 Fallwr llesburgh rn-dndicat­Pd Notre l>amc1 to achieving Sorin's drnam -tlw i:rnation of a grnat, Catholic UniVl'rsity -and pursued this drnam vigorously until his rctirn­nwnt in I987. Thal Notre Dame lodav stands on the threshold of' hflr.o.ming a great university undoubtmlly owos much to Father !l!!shurgh. 
In mw foll swoop, however, I lcishurgh's hard work and that or so many others might soon be jeopar­clizn<l. Nnxt WPi>k the National Co11forc11cl' ol' Catholic Bishops will liknly voto on tlrn implmnentation of l:'.t Corde nccte~icw, l'opo John Paul !l's slatnmnnt on Catholic llnivflrsitios. Tlw most disturhing part ol' this implcnwntation plan is u stipulation that all llwolo){y racully nwmlwrs must hav1i a mandatn from tlrn local bishop in onlr-r to teach. Tim implications for Notrn llamn's ac,u!Pmic fnwdom, and for its status as a prnminr univnrsity, am cata­strophic. As I IPshurgh writ1's in Cod. Country, Notn1 Damn, "Notre Damn would losti all its nwlibilily in lhti Unilrid Stal1\s if an olfo:ial in HomP could abrog1tl1i our acacl,imic l'rce­clom with a snap of his lingnrs. '' Thn sanw can surnly hl' said nf an orficial wllo rnprnsm1ts lionw, sucb as Lim bishop. 
While president of Notre Dame and of the International Federation of Catholic Universities, Ilesburgh tried to pre-empt such an attack on the academic freedom of Catholic Universities and thus preserve their nssential function as centers for uninhibitml thought within the Church. In Jlesburgh's words. "It is very important that we continue to have independent Catholic universi­ties. They are the very places that do the most to advance Catholic thought and influence in this country." In 1967 llesburgh led a group of Catholic university presidents and administrators in releasing the "tand O'Lakes" statement which declared, "The Catholic university must have a true autonnmy and ar.ademic free­dom in the face of authority of what­ever kind, lay or clerical, external to the academic community itself." 
In the face of Ex Corde Bcclesiae's impending implementation llesburgh"s cries for academic free­dom have been taken up by current university president Father Edward Malloy. Malloy and Father Donald Monan, chancellor of Boston College, have declared the bishops' imple­mentation plan "profoundly detri­mental to Catholic higher education." Now, as the bishops prepare to vote on the plan, Malloy should go one step further by declaring Notre Dame's unbending allegiance to aca­demic freedom as defined in the Land O' Lakes statement. Should the bishops vote to pass the proposed implementation plan or Ex Corde Ecclesiae Notre Dame r.ould then jus­tify it-, non-abidance without having to op11nly oppose the Vatican. It could simply stato that previously adopted policy (i.e. abidancu to the Land o· Lakes statement) renders it unablu to follow thn instrudions of IJ'x Corde l:'cclcsiae. All involved -Malloy, the bislw11s·, and tlw Vatican -would be allowPd to save face. and Notrn Dame would remain on track to become the wnrld's only truly great Catholic Univnrsity. 
Michael Camilleri Senior, Morissey M~nur November l 1, 1999 


ffl ( , 
1.
-. ~fl 
..,c_.,,;r..,~ ' -..:....... 
w!.,'•• 

The food we waste is a feast for most 
Notre Dame classmates, I am writing to you about a topic that affects us every sin­gle day of our lives. W~ have the privilege of eating in a place where the pasta never grows cold, certified chefs stand all day long awaiting our personalized orders, mascot-marked waffies are ready to be baked and slices of pie beg to be claimed. Yet, every time that we eat in the dining halls, we unnecessarily waste an enor­mous amount of food. We are "American eaters" who have been brought up in a culture of excessiveness. When we are presented with an abundance of food and choices at the dining halls, we take more than we want or need because we have not been taught to do otherwise. 
The most characteristic aspect of "American eating" is our wastefulness. Every year, the U.S. wastes over 96 billion pounds of food which amounts to one­fourth of the food produced for world con­sumption. Of course, such facts arc impressive but perhaps they're not as striking as the waste that we know from our own experience. Whenever we sit with others in the dining hall, the majority of our companions will not finish their meals; untouched pizza, half-eaten salads, perfectly good breads and full bowls of cereal will return to the tray lines to be thrown out. We are wasting needlessly. At the end of the each day, Notre Dame turns out the equivalent of 10-12 dining hall dumpsters full of wasted food. 
In the meantime, at the end of each day, the dining halls also attempt to share with those who are hungry by donating untouched food to the Center For the Homeless and I !OPE Rescue Mission in South Bond. The organization in charge, Foodshare, reports that Notre' Dame's out­put in this instancP usually amounts to a fm,v meager trays. According to the Department of Agriculture, 27 pP-rcent of the food produced in this country is wast­ed. We can improve this. Believe it or not. there is plenty that one person can do about the problem ofwastP.fulmiss and its relationship to hunger. It begins with a simple choice. Becoming aware of this choice could enable us to rebalance the seal!' of injustice in a small but significant way. All we have to do is eat everything on our plates! In the dining halls, this means taking no more than we want and eating all lhal we take. 
We should ask oursnlvcs to live by the logical principle: No food should go to waste when people are hungry. 
A friend of mine learne<l to relinquish "American eating" habits whon sho wont overseas to livn in a small village without electricity or running water. When she returned to us a semester later, we quizzed her with endless questions about life in a third-world country. To the naive question, "What was the food like?" she gave a memorable and poignant response: "Oh, it was often terrible. Hut you atn everything that you were given. For my host family, a good meal was thn nicest gift that they could give mn. and they insisted that I had the most and thP. best of everything. In a developing country, you just can't be picky or ungrateful about what you eat. You are fortunate to even have food before you." 
This gestures may seem small, but histo­ry has shown that the small acts, such as refusing to give up a seat on a bus, have been enough to inspire greater social jus­tice. If you thi.nk that thesn reasons not to waste are slightly intrusive, you may be right; in the end, giving up wasteful nating will come down to a personal choice. 
When we eat in the dining halls, in our dorms, at restaurants or at homn, will we remember that food is a blessing? Before that food appeared bnfore us, it was _ bought, and before it was bought, it was grown or raised from the earth, through a miraculous process requiring time and labor that most of us know nothing about. 
One out of 10 children in American households are hungry or at risk for hunger. I had three meals today. Although I don't think should feel guilty for my three meals, neither should I waste the food that I was given. If cvnry single day, we make sure to cat all that wn ncnd or take, then every single day, we'll become more conscious of those who don't have food. 
This week will be a good limn to start changing our habits since it has been declarnd the week of thr. National Student Campaign Against !lunger and Homelessnnss. A group named Students For Clean Plates will be al the dining halls inviting you to sign a pntition that asks our government to make a commitment to ending hunger. 
llopefully, this will also remind us that dnspito the extrnvagancn of' our surround­ings, we can promotti changi-l by Pnding our "American eating" habits. 
Rene M. Mulligan Junior. Srudc,m for Clean !'!ares November 12, l 999 



I• ----,--­
' I 
' 

ne 
page 12 Monday, November 15, 1999 
THEATRE REVIEW 
'Piece of My Heart' gives jolt to the system 
O
THE 
BSERVER 
By BRtAN SEAMAN 
Sccne Theam Cri,ic 
For college stuctimts of the 1990's, it is hard to believe tlmt tnenage boys could bave fought in a war, a war from which many or thosP teenagers ni>ver returned. Fathers of lnens today understood this all too well, and for many of them, their gen­'Piece of My eration was shaped within the confinesHeart' of the Vietnam War and the fPars of out offive shamrocks their draft number 
being called. 

Yet since 30 years 
ago when Vietnam 
hPgan. it is only now 

Saint Mary's Theater that. attention is 
being paid to the
Director: Mark 
sacrificr. young

Abram-Copenhaver women made dur­ing this era, sacri­fices of time, labor and emotion. This 
was the focus of Saint Mary's production of Shirley Lauro's play, "A Piece of My Heart." 
Froi:n the opening image of the production, with the six women whose stories will be told standing in silhouette with backs to the audience, it is apparent that the tales that comprise the play are personal ones -tales that could only be told by the women who experienced Vietnam first hand. 
The characters come from a range of backgrounds: from an upper-class college girl from Vassar, to a hippie rocker want­ing to find stardom, to an anti-war demonstrator. Yet when they arrive in Vietnam, their pasts are surrendered to a fearful present of uncertainty, one in which all they know and believe will be questioned. 
\Vhile this would seem a daunting task for an actress, the six women featured in this production were able to portray the gamut of emotions and comprehend the situations faced by women during Vietnam. Besides the primary character they played, each actress also took on sev­eral minor characters met by tl).e women in Vietnam, and the actresses were able to transform v.ith great ease. 
One especially stirring performance was given by Saint Mary's freshman Afrika Green in her first performance on a col­lege stage. While at times some of the actresses seemed to be consciously acting, Green's nuanced performance was at all times engrossing and she commanded the stage whenever she was speaking. 
in one scene, Green portrayed a wound­ed soldier in a military hospital, and while she did not speak a word in the scene, one was able to discover a real sense of horror · 
VIDEO GAME REVIEW 
and madness in her face. In that moment, it was jarring for the audfom:e, for it was shockingly apparent that she was nothing more than a tMnager who had just been wounded in a war so far from home. 
It is this very quality -an understanding of the enor­mity of the grim drcumstanr:e forcPd upon these young women -that was lacking in tho overall production. The actresses in the production are in the same age range as the women who went to Vietnam, yet at timPs, emotions seemed forced and circumstances seemed foreign. 
Such an absence seemed to manifost itself in a lack of coherence throughout the production. WhilP the direction was very inventive and fast-paced, there was no overly­ing feeling. no fog of fear or hope or despair that sur­rounded the production and gave it a sense of unity, 
in one scene, a barrage of bullets and fire rings through a hospital ward, and the young women rush aboul the stage in a flurry of petrified ignorance. The effect is moving and frightening. Yet the previous scene presented an inefficient chain of command playpd out as a laughable game of musical chairs and bout stomping, a staging concept more suited to musical comedy. 
This shockingly fast change in mood and staging may be indicative of the string of emotions expressed by those in Vietnam. But for an audience member, it was difficult to comprehend. 
One minor detail also apparently lacking was a stress on the formal civilities of the military, most noticeably marching and saluting. It is logical that new recruits 


would be not be precision marchers, yet it seems very 
illogical that a woman in the army for 18 years and two 
high level military figures would salute in a way akin to 
children playing war. Despite these minor details, the cast of "A Piece of My Heart" was able to aptly illustrate the horror of war and how teenagers can be moved across the world and become new people. While the cast and production were all equally strong, the most impressive performance was given by senior Kate Murphy. Iler all-American face so apparently changed throughout the show, and her calm collected descent into fear was remarkable. While playing an accessory charac­ter, a veteran nurse teaching a rookie to keep· her emotions in check, Kate had a reluctant lack of sensitivity that was so utterly true. This small charac­ter and all the rest that she played were superb. Moments before return­ing home from Vietnam, her eyes held a frightened knowledge of what she had experienced, and this image was unforgettable. This image was just one of many unforgettable scenes in this produc­tion. If nothing else, it reminded an audience of college students that thPir parents fought in a war, a war that emerged at a time when their biggest worries were just like those today: get­ting good grades, finding love, having fun. Those who were involved in Vietnam struggled immensely, and it takes a play like this to remind people of that. 
'Tiny Tank' packs a big futuristic ban 
By C.R. TEODORO 
Scene Writer 
At lirst glance, "Tiny Tank" looks like a kiddie game to throw in with the rest of the Disney games. But that is a deceiving appearance. Despite its cute look, "Tiny Tank" packs a punch with other action gamPs and has enough atti­tude for any video game fanatic. 
The story starts out in the future, when the U.S. Department of Defense has become a semi-private institution. In ord('r to continue its funding, the DOD develops a campaign of "bringing peace to you, one war at a time." Artificial intelligence is developed to control all war machines, thereby making it unnec­essarv for humans to enter coni1ict. With no httmans going into the wars, the idea of robot war machines seems like a good one. and Tiny Tank is the mascot for this campaign. A cute war machine is sure to grab the hearts of Americans. 
Yet, something goes wrong. and the machines decide to establish dominance under the banner of MuTank. a rene­gade war machine bent on destroying the human rat:e. Tiny Tank now must go on a one-tank mission to take out the MuTanks army. 
The humor of the game is mostly tongue in cheek and is not something that little kids would understand. In the opening cinema, Tiny Tank has an atti­tude and spouts expletives that are bleeped out. The whole atmosphere is one of the urgency that is cxp,~cted on a batlle zone, but Tiny occasionally makes wisecrack remarks during gameplay, a la "Apocalypse." 
The graphics aren't extraordinary, particularly when compared to other games and the release of the Sega Dreamcast. Still, the animation is smooth enough to see everything going on, and the details of the polygons aren't lost. Environments run together smoothly as the game runs through different ter­rains. The laser blasts and launched rockets are recognizable, but sometimes get lost amid the amount of action onscreen. 
Sound is also done well, but there is nothing spectacular when compared to other games of the same genre. This is not to say that it's bad -voices and effects are clear and aren't muddled. As said before, the use of voice-overs and the cinema scenes give attitudf1 to the game that would be iacking had they nnt been present. 
Game control is also simple but effec­tive. in action games, complicated con­trols and unsophisticated response can change a potentially good game into a mediocre one. For tho most part, you just drive and shoot. The game allows Tiny to drive almost anywhere in any direction, so movement is rarely a prob­lPm. Gun turrets also have a way of' automatically aiming at nearby enemies, 

NSIDER 
O
THE 
Monday, November l5, l999 BSERVER Norre Dame ar Pittsburgh 
.---------=-=---=-=-=-=====-=-=-=--=-=-==-=-=-=-=..:::.-=-=-=~===================-=--====================================== 

• Pittsburgh runs over Notre Dame for final victory in Pitt Stadium 
By BRIAN KESSLER \1,om Ediwr 
OAKLAND. l'nnn. 

The l'iltsburgh student section 1·1111ldJJ'L haw summPd it up any lmttm. 
"You can't stnp us." they shouted as thP l'iltshurgh offonsn ran the ball at will during its final drive. Ironically, thPy wnrl' chanting at tlw Pittsburgh 1wP11t staff. who was trying to kcnp 
Llwm off Lim finld. 
Hngardl1iss, Uwy hit it on the nosn. Tlw Irish ddnnso 1:ouldn't stop the Pan1hms. 
Pittsburgh ran the ball on ni1w of its final 10 plays, convcrtod tlirnc first downs and ran four minutes off the !'lock Pn routt! to a tou(·hdown that Sf'lt!Pd a 37-27 victory in tlw final game al l'itt Stadium. 
"l•:vNyone in tlw stadium krww they WPrn going to run tlrn hall," !mad coach Bob l>avie said or tho Pittsburgh drivP. 
"ll;s third-and-6 and we're playing a run defense and they run the ball down our throat." 
Facing a 10-point deficit with 1 minute, 41 seconds remaining, Notre Dame tried to stage anothor comeback, but .larious Jackson's fourth-down pass to Bobby Brown fell incomplete and Pitt Stadium came down on thA Irish, liter­ally. 
With ninA seconds left Pittsburgh fans poured onto the field. despite the public address announcers repeated plea, "Stay off the field. The game is not over." 
IL was,. however, over. 

"I told our team to call it. what it is. We got whipped," Davin said. 'Tm just embarrassed that we didn't play better. I give Pittsburgh credit. They played hard and they deserved to win. It shouldn't have happnned, but it did." 
It happened for sovcral reasons. 

"We can't win headed in the direction we'rn headed," Davie said. "We can't win turning the ball over, making penalties and giving up big plays." 
Pitt receivers Antonio Bryant and Latef Grim torched tho Irish secondary for 215 yards and two touchdowns. 

"They made plays and we didn't," safety Dekc Cooper said. "It's as simple as that." 
"Their receivers controlled the game," Davio said. "The bottom line is there wore more opportunities there that they probably didn't take advan­tage '.lf. We "';frc probably fortunate it wasn t worse. 
Davie tri11d to search for answers fol­lowing the game. 
"I think it's two things," he said. "First, it's the inability to cover. I tllfo'I<' we've been exposed a little bit. The sec­ond thing is how much pressure do we truly gnt. If I had to say anything, I think people are pretty comfortable throwing the football on us." 
Pitt backup quarterback John Turman seemed pretty comfortable. Arter losing his job earlier this season, Turman filled in for David Priestly with a 10-for-27 performance for 231 yards and two touchdowns. 
"You can't play good enough defense to win whnn you give up big plays," defensive coordinator Greg Mattison said. "H's the same thing that. hap­pened last week. There were times in tlrnre where we played well enough to 
win, but they made big plays against us. 
"Whnn you get in c:lose games and you givo up big plays, you 'rn not going to win," Mattison continued. "Wn'v11 got to got that corrected. We allownd tlwm 
t.o gr( into the end zone too cmsily." 
Pantlrnr tailback Kevan Barlow rushed for 71 yards on '19 carries and two scorns. 
Nick Goings finished with 6(1 yards on 15 rushns. Kicknr Nick Lotz co111rncted oii' throe field goals. · 
Senior split end Brown had a 1:arnm game for the Irish with 12 catdrns for 
208. Ile also had a touchdown catch on an option pass from follow rncciver David Givens. 
"Tiley gave us somn opportunitirn, to make plays and I made them, but obvi­ously not enough to win thn gam'c." Brown said. 
Jackson f'inislrnd with 317 yards 011 22-for-37 passing, but the Irish running attack was anemic, gaining just. 72 yards on 32 carries. 
"They outplayed us," Jackson said. "I don't know if it corm1s down to talPnl or attitude. I don't know what it comes down to. They simply outplayml us." 


player of the game  quote of the game  stat of the game  
Bobby Brown  "I'm embarrassed for our  72 yards rushing  
The fifth-year senior caught r2 passes for 208 yards and a touchdown in the best game of  football team. " Bob Davie Irish head coach  Notre Dame's rushing attack was held in check by a feisty Pittsburgh defense. The option  
his Irish career.  was especially ineffective.  

page 2 
report card. 

8+ 
quarterbacks: Jackscm started off slow bntfinished the day 22-37 for .'Jl7 yards and a touchdoum .. His 
running was ineffective, however, 
and he threw one interception. 

D 
running backs: Fisher lead the team with 4S yards on the ground. but the 
Irish running game never got going and only gained 72 yards. 
receivers: Brown played his best

8-
game in an frish uniform while Getherall and O'Leary were solid. 
Gi11ens added a rushing. passing 
and receiuing threat to the offense. 

D 
offensive line: The lack ofa rushing attack can be blamed on the lack of blocking by the offensil'e line. 
Lo.~ing Teasdale hurt. hut the tine 
was bad with him, too. 

C-
defensive line: The line got two sacks but still gave Turman too much time in the pocket. ft also did very little 
against the Pitt running game. 

8-
linebackers: Denman got an interception. Bolman got a sack and Harrison led the team in tackles, 
{mt the lin ebarkers couldn't stop the Pitt running backs when it mattered. 
defensive backs: Bryant and Grim 

D 
made the secondary look bad all 
day. The Irish corners were beat 
almost every play. 
special teams: Sanson returned and was a bright spot on the team. The only negative for the special teams was a blocked kick. Kick returns were not a threat without Howard. 
coaching: Every week Da11ie talks

C-
about the need to correct certain 
problems. but every week those 
problems remain uncorrected. 
overall: Davie said this loss was 
the low point ofhis coaching 
career. !fit gets any lower. he

2.18 
won't have a coaching career. 
adding up the nuinbers 
seconds left on clock when Pitt 
9 
students tore down goal posts 
1 
number of Pitt fans that punched a police horse during the 
post-game celebration 
years Pitt Stadium was open 
75 

price of a Hooters 2000 calender, according to sign over stadium yards receiving by Irish wide receiver Bobby 
208 
Brown 
0 
limes the ball was given to Jabari Holloway despite playing both 
tight end and fullback 
attendance at Pitt 
6o19o
Stadium -the 
largest since 1983 , 
6 
conse.cutive Irish road losses 


The Pittsburgh Panthers deserved to win on Saturday. 
They out-hit. out-rushed and generally out-played an Irish team that seemed dazed and confused at times. No one 
should doubt Pitt's worthi­ness -too bad their fans didn't realize what a great victory the team achieved on Saturday. 


While defeat­

Mike Connolly
ing Notre Dame is no longer at big accomplish­associate ment -heck, 
sports editor 
evervone from Northwestern to Air Force has done it this decade -the win deserv<'d imme­diate attention and respect from Panther fans. 
Pitt fans seemed to pay more atlenl.ion to the scores of their for­mer rival -Penn State -then they did to their own football team. 
The loudest cheers of the game came not when the Panthers stole the hall from Joey Getherall in the fourth quarter or when Kevan Barlow plunged in from two yards away to seal the win. 
Instead, Panther fans were loud­est when the public address announcer informed them that Michigan had defeated Pcnfl State 31-27. Throughout the game, whPnever the Penn State scorr appeared on the "Panther-vision," Pitt fans roared. 
Meanwhile, the on-field action drew only occasional attention. 
The closest Pitt fans came to car­
ing about what happened on the 
field was booing the Notre Dame ·cheerleaders as they streaked flags 
across the field after Irish touch­
downs. 

Pitt fans define themselves not by 
their team's successes but by the 
failures of others. Their own fight 
song expresses their pathetic 
nature; instead of cheering for 
their own team, Pitt fans shout 
"Penn State sucks!" and "P-E-N-N­
S-T sucks!" Their football team 
deserved better than this. But 
according to a Pitt _student, booing 
Penn State is a Pitt traditions. 
"We say Penn State sucks 
because Penn State sucks," Mike 
Harsely said after the game. "It's 
been a tradition since l got here." 
Losing has been a long tradition 
for Pitt. But the Panthers and head 
coach Walt Harris are finally 
putting that losing behind them, 
and in the words of Harris, they 
are "learning how to win." 
Pitt fans should take a lesson 
from their football team and learn 
how to cheer. Rather than being so 
wrapped up in a rivalry which will 
longer be contested (Pitt and Penn 
State have no plans to meet on the 
licld after this season), Pitt fans . should focus on their current team 
and appreciate the grPar things it 
is achieving. 

Even at the end of the game 
when students rushed the field, 
thev didn't seem interested in cele­
bra.ting a victo,;y; they wanted to 
destroy the stadium. With nine 
seconds left on tht) clock. Pilt stu­
dents climbed the goal posts and tore them down. 
Despite pleas from announcers for students to return to their seats for an "extra special post-game show," the students kept pouring onto the field. While only a com­plete idiot could have expected them to stay in their seats, the field rushing was not to celebrate Pitt football but to destroy whatev­er they could get their hands on. 
They even tore up the Astroturf' -failing to remember that Pitt uses the stadium as a practice facility and still has two weeks of practice before a road trip to West Virginia with a possible bowl bid on the line. 
Harsely declared the post game celebration "incredible" and smiled as he recounted the events. 
"People were getting trapped under tho field goal post," he said. "People were crying. It was unbP­lievable." 
People getting trapped and cry­ing, sounds like a blast to me. It would have been evm1 funnier if' someone broke his leg or ii' a girl got a concussion. 
What will Pitt fans do in five years when the Penn State rivalry is just a distant memory? 
Without a stadium lo tear down, how will they find "unbelievabln" moments? 
. Maybn, just may!rn, thoy will dis­cover that Harris has put together a team worth watching and start cheering. 
The vierDs expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those <f Thf> Ob.c;erver. 
I. 

Monday, November I5, 1999 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Irish running game's the Pitts 
l\y BRIAN KESSLER 
Sp<>m Editor 
OAKLAND. PP1m. 
'1'111• four horsPmP11 WPJ'I' in Pit.I Stadium Saturday, but unl'ort.unat<dy for tlin Irish t.hPy WPrPn't in th<' Notrn lla1i1P barklkld. 
Thny w<~J'!' polir.PmPn on ho rsP hack a waiting tlrn i 1wv i ta b I n o 11 s Ia u gh t h y l'illshurgh f'ans f'ollowing llwir :n-27 victory OVPI' Nolro l>anw. 
Thi• Irish. howPv<,r. could havP usPd Milkr. l.aydnn. C:rnwlf'v and StuhldrPlwr in lhnir <I°<•plf'!l'd backf'i<~ld. It surl' would hav,• lwatPn llin romhinalion of' .Julius .Jorws, Tony Fishl'r, Tom l.opi!\llSki and .looy (;oodsp<!Pll. 
"You llt'l'd to hP ahlP to run Ilw foothal I to win in a ganw liki· this," IJaviP said. "/\nd you rw<id to lw abll\ to prowct Ih" f'ootball." 
Tlw Irish didn't do ,iitlwr. 
Thny !-(ai1wd just 72 yards on :~2 1·arrins for a dismal 2.] yards rwr rarry and had three sProrHl-half turnovers. 
"I don't. know !what hap­pnnPdJ. I hav1i no rllw," said .lonns. who had just IO yards on f'ivl' rarriPs. "Coming into tlH' ganw, I thougl1t wP'd do a prl'lty good joh. but WP strug­glPd l.oday." 
Thi• Irish rushing attal'k didn't strugglf' l.lw last tinw llw two Ir.ams mr.t. NotrP Dami' rushNl for 317 yards en ro11t1• to a 4:i-21 victory ov<'r Ih <' I' a n t lw r s i n ·<) 7 . /\ u l r v 

-
.,. 
--

I )l'llSon gai,wd 128 yards. ancl JOHN DAILY/The Observer <:IPIIIPllt StokPs pitdwd in I()<J Fullback Tom Loplenski cannot find a hole In the Pittsburgh defense during Saturday's 37-27 loss. The sophomore from Hudson, to kc>y th,~ Irish win. 
Ohio, rushed for 13 yards on five carries. 

Thi' ground ganw, howiwnr, was tlH• kny factor in th!' Irish 
hr.st dr.fr.nses lo boot. things, but at some points you running the· ball, but then we they pulled it out. It's care­
loss this yPar. 
Pittsburgh's del'ensr. boasts a have to lineup and say we're got behind and had lo start lessness on my part."
"Tlwy wt>rc' kind of stuffing dnf'nnsive line avPraging a running the ball right now. " passing so it was kind of tough Two series later, Fisher11s as l'ar as running the ball," 
quartPrbark .larious .lal'kson 
backer corps weighing in a to running early in the game When the Irish did rush the play of the drive. Both Irishsaid. "W11 got into a rhythm 
whopping 21 :i pounds per per­and resorted to passing the hall in the second half, they fumbles led lo Panther touch­
lat1~r ()Jl as far as passing goes, 
son. Still, the Irish were ball when -Pitt went ahead 27-turned Hover twice. downs.
hut you can't throw tlw ball all 
unable to run the football. 17 in the third quarter. On their first offensive "In the second hall', [tearing

day. You hav11 lo establish a 
"They rank up there in the "It was hard early on," said series, Fisher picked up 24 the ball out isl what they kept
running ganw soonPr or latr.r. 
top of tho Big East in rush Fisher, who led the Irish with yards on three carries, only to doing to me and .Julius,"
Thny sloppod us whnn it dofonse," head coach Bob 45 yards rushing on 12 car­see Jones fumble on the next Fisher said. "It shouldn't have
c11untPd." 
Davie said. "They put a lot of ries. "I guess we were going to play. happened. I guess we should
Tr.nncisspo's dcifo11s11 lwlcl ilrn 
people up there at the line of come out and establish more "They pretty much tried to have held onto the ball lighter.
Notrn Damn ).tround gamn at 
scrimmage, but how commit­of a passing game, but in the strip it every time we got the At tlrn moment we had twobay last wPokr.nd, allowing 
ted were we to running the second half Coach Davie said balI." .Jones said. "I relaxed hands on the ball, but we were
just 121 yards on 43 carrir.s. 
ball early? We need to look at we were going to come out for a play and they took it getting ganged up and theyThP Volunteers, however, 
what we'ro doing. Let's call it and play Notre Dame football from me. I didn't have the ball took it out of our hands andhavr. S(lllrn of t!H• lwst athlr.tr.s 
what it is. Wfl do some good and rush the ball. We were as light as I could have and we turned it over."
in llw rnuntry and one of tlrn 
AP Poll scoring summary & stats ESPN/USA Today Poll 
/.eam record points scoring 1st 2nd · 3rd 4th Total 1 Florida Stale (63) 10-0 1,746 
Notre Dame 3 7 14 3 27 
2 Virginia Tech (6) 9-0 1,656 7 3 17 10 37
Pittsburgh

3 Florida 9·1 1,599 4 Nebraska 9·1 1,523 
team statistics ND Pitt

5 Wisconsin 9·2 1,495 6 Texas 9-2 1,328 Jirst downs 18 21 7 Tennessee 7-2 1,296 rushes-yards 32-72 42-177 
8 Alabama 8-2 1,288 passing-yard.'> 338 231 9 Kansas Slale 9-1 1.206 comp-all-int 23-39-1 10-27·2 10 Michigan 8-2 1,085 
return yard.,; 163 112 

11 Marshall · 10-0 1,006 
punts-ar1erage 1-1 3-8

12 Mississippi State 8·1 947 
jiunhlcs-losr 3-2 1-1

13 Penn Slate 9-2 853 
penalties-yard:; 7-55 5-37

14 Georgia Tech 7·2 825 15 Michigan Slate 8·2 805 time ofpossession 31:14 28:46 16 Mississippi 1·2 749 
individual statistics

17 Minnesota 7.3 680 18 Southern Miss. 7-3 508 passing 19 BYU 8-2 486 ND -Jackson 22·38·1, Givens 1-1-0 20 Purdue 6·4 357 Pill-Turman 10-27·2 
21 Georgia 6-3 310 
rnshing

22 Arkansas 6·3 288 ND-Fisher 12-45, Lopienskl 5-13, Jones 5-10, Getherall 1-2,23 East Carolina 8-2 213 Goodspeed 1-1,Jackson 7-1, Givens1-D24 TexasA&M 7-3 99 Pitt -Barlow 19·71, Goings 15-65, Turman 6-19, Feola 2-325 Boston College 7-2 89 
receiving 

urlwr team.~ recdving 11otes: Louisiana Tech NJ) -Brown 12-208, Getherall 3·18, O'Leary 2-54, Givens 2-32, 116, Oklahoma 96, Miami, Fla. 49, Stanford 49, Oregon Goodspeed 2-18, Fisher 2-8 29, Wyoming 23, Illinois 19, Oregon State 18, Pitt -Grim 4-120, Bryant 4-95, Dixon 1-10, Barlow 1·6 
Washington 5, Auburn 4, Hawaii 4, Western Michigan 4, Kentucky 2, Louisville 2, Virginia 2, Boise Slate 1 
scoring team record points summary 1 ~lorida State (58) 10·0 1,474 l~t 2 Virginia Tec:h (1) 9·0 1,410 /'ill -ti:23 3 Florida 9-1 1,347 Bryant 9-yd. pass 
4 . Nebraska 9·1 1,310 
trom Turman 

5 Wisconsin 9·2 1,218
Loll kick. 7·0 N/J -2:48 6 Texas 9·2 1,104 FG Sanson 36-yd., 7·3 
7 Tennessee 7-2 1,011 2nd a· Alabama 8·2 994 
/'ill -10:18 

9 Kansas Stale 9·1 982
FG Lotz 24-yd., 10·3 

ND -1:32 10 M!c~toan 8·2 918 Getherall 5-yd. pass 11 ManihaU . 10•0 859 lrom Jackson 
12 Georgia.Tech 7-2 850
Sanson kick, 10-1O 

13 hhn State 9·2 757
:Jrd 

14 Michigan State 8-2 753
l'itt -9:18 Barlow 3-yd. run 15 Mississippi State 8-1 752 
Lolz kick, 17·10 16 Mississippi 7-2 547 ND -5:27 • 
17 Southern Miss. 7.3 423
Brown 21-yd. pass 

from Givens 18 Minnesota 7.3 407 Sanson kick, 17-17 19 BYU 8·2 372 IW -3:09 
20 TexasA&M 7-3 345 
FG Lotz 33-yd. , 20-17 mr-1:19 

21 East Carolina 8·2 283 Bryant 23-yd. pm 22 Boston College 7-2 260 from Turman 
23 Georgia 6-3 241 
Lotz kick, 27-17 .V/J -Givens 27-yd. pass 

24 Arkansas 6-3 143 from Jackson 25 Purdue 6·4 108 Sanson kick, 27-24 4th other teams receil•ing votes: Stanlord 71, 
l'itt -11:03 

Oklahoma 68, Miami, Fla. 33, Louisiana Tech 26,
FG Loll44-yd., 30•24 

NI! ·-8:36 Oregon 25, Washington 18, Virginia 12, Colorado 
FG Sanson 39-yd. ,30-27 State 11, Illinois 11, Louisville 10, Hawaii 8, m1 -1:41 
Clemson 6, Oregon Slate_4, Colorado 3, Wyomlng·1
Barlow 2-yd. run Lolz kick. 37-27 

----------------------------:-----------------­
O
THE 
Notre Dame at Pittsburgh BSERVER Monday, November l 5, 1999 
T 


--TUMBLING INTO MEDIOCRITY 
Six years ago, the Irish defeated the No. I-ranked Seminoles of Florida State on Nov. 13. 1993, in the greatest Notre Dame victory of the '90s. This week's loss to unranked Pittsburgh on !\iov. 13, 1999, may go down as the worst Notre Dame loss of 
this decade. 1993 saw the Irish vaulted to No. 1 in both the AP and coaches polls. This year's Irish find themselves without a single vote in either poll. 

-
-





cene 
O
THE Monday, November 15, 1999 BSERVER 
VIDEO GAME REVIEW 
Leave it to Lammy 

By C.R. TEODORO 
\lt'1H" \1(/fitt•r 
For tlwsP l'at1•1'ul l'SX1•rs that ha\'I' playl'd sirH'P Lill• Parly days whPn Lil(' PSX ,·,11,soll' rallll' Olli. tl11• IHlllll' " I' H r rap a ! lw Ha p p I' r " slinuld not h1• u111'11miliar. This d1ildish gnmP was si111­plisti1· in opPrut.ion, hut pro­vidt>d l'lllPrtai11111PnL !'or any ag,, kvPI. It was an original ga1111• u11lik1• a11y otlwr. 
Unlil 1111w. 
Sr111y·s "Um .lammPr l.ammy" is t.111· Sl'ljlll'I lo tlw pop u I a r " I' arra pa l IH• !lapppr" ganw. "Lammy" is l'SSl'lllially thP sanH' gai11n, hut has additional l'Patunis that wnrn not prPSt'nt in thn 
· 01'igi11al "Parrapu." SLill. thH mat1irial is l'rnsh nncl corni­
1ral t11 view. 
1\ 11 n tlni r as p n c L o f t h is ganw is that playPrs play a girl, n concPpt that is alinn lo l!l(ISl vid1!0 gamns unlnss Lill• girl is ki I ling stufl' and 
, has a su1u•rmodnl's body. Thi• girl is Lammy, tlw lead guitarist for tlw up-and-cnm­ing hand MilkCan. It is up to playt•rs to linlp Lammy play lll'r guitar and hopnfully woo tlw crnwds with sonrn cool riffs. Lammy first conrns off as a shy and rl!'rvous girl, hut whl'n shP takes hold of lwr guitar, slw l«!tS it all hang out and rorks thn world. 
Cl,•arly at. first glance, tlw graphics senm to mirror thn com1Hly of "South !'ark." 1•:vnn though that doesn't sound impt'l!SSivn, tile pro­gram1111irs actually did an l!XCP!lt•nt job of creating a 3­
1) spacti using mostly 2-D imagt!S. In fact, the polygons that makP up tlrn dil'ferl'nt charartl'rs are t!Ssentially moving plarrns of paper. This minimal us1! nl' polygons and grnphirs rnally proves that sonwtinws l11ss is morn. h11m a designing point of vinw . llrn g a m n s c r n e 11 is artivn and playful with its rich use of color and placn­nwn t ol' elnments. This is a cartoon world in which you would actually lrnlitwe you could movn around. 
Photo courtesy of Sony Computer Entertalnmenl Sony's "Um Jammer Lammy" gives a new twist to the video game world with its impressive music and graphics. 
Even with an impressive display and use of graphics, the sound is what steals the spotlight. As in "Parrapa," where players must rap in rhythm tn the music, one must take control of Lammy and play her guitar in beat with the music that is play­ing. Half of the game con­sists of silly cinemas that display tlrn dialogue in clear voices. 
The other half you actually play along to the music. Most or tho music on this disc is reminiscent of past popular tunes that add a sense of style l'or nvery level. For a game where sound is para­mount, Lammy takes control and donsn't leave the player unsatisfied. 
The game controls are easy to learn, yet can still be a challenge to even the most cxpnrienced gamer. One only has to use six buttons, and the directional pad is dis-. carded in game play. The level starts out with a teacher that sings in the rhythm of the music, with a rhythm bar to help visually. Then immediately afterward, one-is expected to play out the rhythm by pushing the right buttons in sync with the music. 

At l'irst, it can be frustrat­ing. as one may think that one is hitting the buttons correctly. But the key to scoring is not so much hit­ting thn right buttons in the right order but keeping a consistent rhythm in doing so. It is also good to remem­ber not to follow the rhythm straight through but to rely more on the music, since this is essentially a game about music. 
Compa.~ing it l~ its prede­cessor, Lammy has some additional features that "l'arrapa" doesn't. One of those things is a two-player mode. Unlike "Parrapa," which was only a one-player gamn, "Lammy" can have two players either cooperate in playing together or go head-to-head in battle mode, where you see who can play better. 
This game probably isn't for everyone. If you just like to kill things or have some­thing with a ball, look else­where. But if you still are a child at heart, take a look at this game. It's a game where you can still have fun with­out killing mutant aliens or zombies. 
for all video gamers 
allowing you to concnntralP on 111ar11H1vrn·ing whiln nol compromis­ing your shots. 
Ovnrall. "Tiny Tank'' is an onjoy­
1hlt1 ganw. It's 1wt just a stnrnolypi­
·al shoolPr gPnrP gamn, as it adds 
11mc rl'l'rc1ihing wilhout b1dng too 
·hildish. 
<:ustomization options also allow 
·or a bettor tank tha l nxpnrionced 
1lay1irs may apprcdatP. but it still 
rns thl~ fast. big hang !'or most 
•anwrs. "Tiny Tank" may 11ol be ·11Ui11g mlgP wilh tlm _rchmsn of' tho )rca111cast and rwws of tho l'SX2, llft it's t:iirtainly nnt a game to be 1vPrlookNI. 

page 13 

AP ENTERTAINMENT BRIEFS 

Photo courtesy of 20th Century Fox Winona Ryder, who last starred in 1997's "Alien: Resurrection," will star as a mental patient in "Girl, Interrupted." 
Ryder has nerves abou_t new film 
NEW YORK Winona Ryder says she's feeling a little nervous about her new movie, "Girl, Interrupted." · 
Ryder, 28, said in Sunday's New York Times that she invested more or herself in this role than in any other because of' a pnrson­al connection. 
The film is based on Susanna Kaysen's memoir of a two-year stay as a teen-ager in a psychiatric clinic. Hyder briefly checked herself into a hospital at age 20 for treatment of d(~pression, something she never discussed publicly boforc. 
'.'I was overworked and overtired -too tired to sleep," she said. "The worst part of it was not being able to describn it -the over­whelming horror of the anxiety attacks -even to my own family, to the people closest to me." 
Ryder's father gave her Kaysen's book a ynar later, and slrn said she immediately identified with the experience. 
"I was just coming out of my very serious depression, and I didn't know what to label it, just as Susanna doesn't know what to label hers," she said. 
The movie opens Dnc. 21. 
Ricci: Kissing Depp is ·weird' 
Nl3W YOHK In Christina Ricci's lirst scene with Johnny Depp in their new 
movie "Sleepy Hollow," the two romantic leads passionately kiss. "It was weird," Ricci said in Sunday's New York Daily News. Weird because Ricci met Depp on the set of her first movie, 
"Mermaids," when she was just 9 and he was in his 20s. 
In "Sleepy Hollow," director Tim Burton's adaptation of Washington Irving's classic, Ricci plays Katrina Van Tassel, an 18th century damsel with long blond tresses, elegant dresses and an upper-crust accent. 
The 19-year-old says she has grown up since her role as Wednesday in the "Addams Family." "l certainly hope I'm not still answering child star questions by the time I reach menopause," she said. 
Twain's name continues trademark life 
11/\BTFOBD. Conn. In an attempt to restore some of the city's fallen grandeur, 
... 

Mark Twain's name is being invoked as the likely title of a shiny wat,wfront development in I lartford. · 
Cashing in on Twain's legacy is big business -business that the literary lion with the silver mane would havn understood but may not have endorsed. 
"I don't think he wcmld want to see any tacky commercial use of his name," said Michael Frank. an edit.or with the Mark Twain Project at University of California, Berkeley. 
..

Hartford alroady has a Mark Twain branch of tlrn public library, a restaurant with a Mark Twain room and an apartment complex named "Clemens Place," all on the same strcd as Thn Mark Twain House, his residence for 20 years. 
The latest commercial plan to be considered f'or the Twain name is a developmnnt along tho Connecticut Hivnr with shops, a hotel. a convention r,enter and a sports arnna. 
Others say Sam Clemens was not adverse Lu using his pen name for commercial purposes. He trademarked "Mark Twain" and used it to sell everything from cigars to scrapbooks. 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
BOXING 

Lewis earns win over Holyfield 
Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS 
For Lennox Lewis, it doesn't get any better than being the undisputed heavyweight cham­pion of the world. 
He earned that distinction -Saturday night with a unani­mous decision over Evander Holyfield, eight months after he thought he had beaten him but had to settle for a highly con-. troversial draw. 
Lewis, however, left the ring with only the WBC and WBA championship belts. The IRF withheld its belt because of a sanctioning fee dispute. 
Whatever the outcome, Holyfield put things in perspec­tive. 
"lt's not so much what I think, it's what reality is," he said. "And what reality is, is he's the heavyweight champion of the world." 
Panos Eliades, the main pro­moter of the cha1npion from Britain, said Lewis might turn his back on the beleaguered 
!BF. 
"Lennox Lewis is the undis­puted heavyweight champion of the world and when we go home we'll decide what to do with the IBF belt," Eliades said. "The way the IBF acted tonight was disgraceful." 
IBF president Bob Lee told The Associated Press by tele­phone on Sunday that Lewis would get the belt if a $300,000 sanctioning fee is paid to the IBF by Friday. 
Pat English, a lawyer for Main Events, Lewis' American promoter, said he met with IBF lawyer Walter Stone the after­noon of the fight and they had reached an agreement and a $300,000 was check cut. 
However, English said that just before the start of the fight, Stone told him he received a call from "somebody on high," and he could not accept the check. 
Lee said Lewis' camp "tried to get in the money into an escrow account" and English "cut a check to his own escrow account."· After he conferred with Stone, Lee said, he told Stone not to accept the agree-· ment. 
Asked why he thought an attempt was made to put the money into escrow, Lee said, "Maybe because of the indict­ment." 
Lee bus been indicted by a federal grand jury on charges of soliciting and accepting bribes to fix ranking and was tu arraigned Monday in Newark, N.J. 
While the IBF will accept $300,000, J.ee said the actual sanctioning fee was $450,000, three percent of Lewis' $15 million purse. 
While the decision was unan­imous, Lewis was not as domi­nant as he had been in the first fight March 13 at Madison Square Garden. 
"It was little tougher than the first fight," Lewis said. "I was thinking I've got to go home with all the belts. I went through some trials and tribu­1 a ti ons. A lot of Americans didn't want me to take the belts across the Atlantic. I actually persevered and succeeded." 
Holvfield threatened to take control in the seventh round, his best and also the best round of the fight. Lewis, however, shooting left jabs and right uppercuts, wouldn't let him. 
Holyfield shook the 34-year­old Lewis a couple of times in the round and trailed only 6 7 ­66 on each of the three official cards with five rounds remain­ing. But the cautious Lewis won all five of the rounds on one card, four of five on another and three of five on the third. 

"I hit him good a couple of times," said Holyfield, who turns 37 on Friday. "He was able to come back after I hit him with a couple of shots. The big thing in life is you give your all." 
In the first fight, Holyfield complained that his perfor­mance was affected by leg cramps. There were no excuses this time. 
Holyfield was quicker Saturday night. but when he got inside, the taller Lewis was able to wrap him up most of the time. 
The scoring by the judges was Chuck Giampa 116-112, Bill Graham 117 -111 and Jerry Roth 115-113. The AP scored it for Lewis, 116-113. 
Lewis was credited with land­ing 195 of 490 punches in the Thomas & Mack Center com­pared with 348 of 613 in the first fight. Holyfield's figures were 137 of 416 Saturday night compared with 134 of 385 in the first fight. 
Neither man was ever close to going down, but Lewis was cut over the right eye by a head butt in the fifth round. 
"I was jabbing [in the early rounds} because he was com­ing in with his head," Lewis said. 
'Tm willing to take on all comers," Lewis said. 'Tm the undisputed champion of the world and a lot of people are going to be calling up." 
Holyfield's boxing future is uncertain, but there could be a lucrative third match with Mike Tyson. 
Monday, November I 5, I 999 
TENNIS 

Davenport chases Hingis for top spot 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
Martina Hingis enters this week's Chase Championships as the defending champion. She's also on a two-tourna­ment losing streak and intent on changing things. 
"You want to end up the sea­son with a victory:· she said of the $2 million tournament that begins Monday at Madison Square Garden. 
Hingis is ranked No.. 1 and will be top-seeded in the elite 16-player field. Lindsay Davenport, seeded No. 2, lost to I-lingis in this event last year but beat the Swiss teen-ager 6­3, 6-4 Sunday to capture the Advanta Championships in Philadelphia. 
Hingis also lost the Lina! in Zurich, Switzerland, to Venus Williams, one of four players making their debut in the sea­son-ending showcase. The oth­ers are the younger Williams sister, Serena, along with Ame.lie Mauresmo of France and Barbara Schett of Austria. 
Three of the sport's biggest stars ofrecent vears, however, will be missing." 
Steffi Graf, who won the title five times, has retired and will be honored by Madison Square Garden and the WTA Tour on -Tuesday night. Graf, who won the French Open and reached the final at Wimbledon, quali­fied for this year's tournament. "It's going to be both a happy and a sad occasion," said Graf, who won 22 Grand Slam tournament titles. "New York and Madison .Square Garden have always been very 
special to me and I'm looking forward to coming back." 
The ceremony will be held after the first singles match of the evening. 
"Steffi's retirement never gave.her fans a chance to say goodbye," said .Jim Fuhsc, WTA Tour director of promo­tions. "Tuesday will give them their chance." 
Two other former Garden champions who played during the year will not be in the field .Jana Novotna, the 1997 win­ner, joined Graf in retirement, while three-time winner Monica Seles, who qualified, has a stress l'racture in her right foot. 
Schett, seeded seventh, will play the opening match Monday evening, facing Arantxa Sanchez-Vicario of Spain .•Th(rn, No. 5 Mary Pierce, one of five French play­ers in the field, takes on Anna Kuurnikova of Russia. 
"I think it will be a tough match, but I have good experi­ence against her," Kournikova said. 
Hingis opens her defense Tuesday against Sandrine Testud of France. She could use the Garden court to get back at Davenport. 
"Next week at Chase, maybe we'll be in the finals again," Hingis said Sunday in Philadelphia. 
Coming off a dominating performance in the semifinals against Venus Williams, Davenport used a big serve and booming baseline strokes to win her first Advanta title after finishing runner-up the past two years. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 1.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds musr be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe righr to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

gmbid.com is a pre IPO start-up '90 TOYOTA TERCEL, 84K MILES, Need as many BC tickets for as LL: How are the FCs? luxury auction web site, pioneered 4-SPEED, GOOD CONDITION, close to face as possible for friends 
NOTICES by Georges Marciano, the founder FOR SALE $1900. and family. Help me out Call Brian of Guess? Jeans. We are looking 299-1608. at 634-3346 for a part time campus representa-OK. How funny was THAT? 
THE COPY SHOP live to join us in arranging local pro-Spring Break Specials!Bahamas 12 BC GA's. Must sell. Call Dennis Lafortune Student Center motions, PR, giveaways, e-mail Party Cruise 5 Days $279! Includes 1 ·914·654-9200. 
TICKETS 

PHONE 631-COPY campaigns, sponsorships, etc. Must Meals! Booya! www.CopyShopND.com be interested in marketing, a self· Awesome Store Hours starter, fun, and a team player. Beaches,Nightlife'Cancun & WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT-Hey, why doo't you come over
PERSONAL

Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight Please email resumes to.: Jamaica 7 Nights From $399! BALL TICKETS tonight I will be busy until Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm reps@gmbid.com Florida 271-1526 December. Sat: Noon-6:00pm $129!springbreaktravel.com High-Speed ~opi~"'-l· .. Sun: Noon-Midnight 1-800-678-6386 SELL & BUY GA FOOTBALL TICK· Color Copies, Binding, No, I don't just want a "b•call". I just 
WANTED: ETS Fax Service, Resumes, want to see you. TWO PART TIME EMPLOYEES FOR SALE 277-6619 Business Cards, Laminating, TO WORK IN A RETAIL ENVIRON-N.D. FOOTBALL TIX & a whole lot more Sure, Copes. We believe that
LOST & FOUND 

MENT DOING CUSTOM FRAM· CALL 271-9412 FOR SALE at Love, 4B. 
ING. FLEXIBLE HOURS, GREAT BC & Stanford lix. THE COPY SHOP LOST: CRUCIFIX WITH BROWN PAY AND STORE DISCOUNTS FOR SALE Best Prices Lafortune Student Center This is a shoutout, once again, to BEADS BEFORE BREAK. KEEP· IDEAL APPLICANTS Will HAVE N.D. FOOTBALL TIX AM -232-2378 Phone 631-COPY Siegfried 4B. SAKE. CREATIVITY ARTISTIC EXPRES· CALL 271-9412 PM -288-2726 Free Pick-Up & Delivery! 
PLEASE CALL CAROL AT 631-SION AND SKILL TO CRAFT. Time to Air Goldie: three weeks. 7484. APPLY IN PERSON AT FRAME Phone Cards 669min. $20 ND Football llx 
FACTORY, SCOTTSDALE MALL 243-9361 or 258-4805 BOUGHT & SOLD Just two more Sundays ... 
OR E-MAIL RESUME TO AM · 232-2378 
GMDALE@AOL.COM Beautlful brass bed, queen size, PM -288-2726 Spring Break 2000 Free Trips & Sports question of the week: which
WANTED 

with orthopedic mattress set and Meals. college basketball team beat Air 
deluxe frame. New, never used, still FOR SALE Jamaica,Cancun,Bahamas,Barbad Force and Alabama this weekend? Loving ND-SMC couple wishes to in plastic. $235 N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS os,Florida,Padre.Book now for Free Check the web to find out. adoptWill prov,de a lifetime of Free CD 01 cool indie music when 219-862-2082 CALL 271-9412 Meals & 2 Free Trips.Book before 
laughter,love,devotion and opportu-you register at mybytes.com, the Dec. 17 for LOWER PRICES!! This week's jourpalism tip: it's hard nities. ultimate website for your college SPRING BREAK 2000 I need one BC ticket 1800·426·7710 to get quotes from people when the 800-484-4699 code 0019 needs. Call Holden www.sunsplashtours.com stereo's turned up to full blast. 
PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA 634-4788 To our 4am inquirer: all info kepi in FROM $149 PER PERSON SAND-STUDENT WORK So, did those $20 help, Deuce? total confidence Please call back PIPER BEACON BEACH RESORT WANTED ND/BC GA Tix Vector Marketing Corp. is now filling 
anytime.Our prayers are with you. THE "FUN PLACE"! Jim 234-7228 p/t cust. sales & service positions. I thought not. Don't even bother
FOR RENT 

TIKI BEACH BAR ENTERTAIN-Flex. around class. replying. Free One Bedroom Apartment near MENT BY BOOGIE INCORPORAT· Transfers avail. over breaks. Campus ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE ED BIKINI CONTESTS MALE Need 2 BC tix. Call 634-2755 $10.55 base-appt Good resume Where's my comic fix? 
HOME FOR HARD BODY CONTESTS exp. scholarships awarded, cond. A family .with three children seeks ND-SMC EVENTS 3 POOLS LAZY RIVER RIDE BUYING AND SELLING NOTRE apply. Did you check the box? fun.energetic student or graduate to VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. WATER SLIDE DAME VS BOSTON COLLEGE call mon-wed 12:30-5:30pm live in charming apartment for 243-D658. HUGER BEACHFRONT HOT TUB TICKETS. CALL 289-8048. 282·2357 Yep, and they're not there. I wonder FREE in exchange for mutually MINI GOLF GIFT SHOP SUITES what's going on. agreeable babysitting responsibill-WALK TO SCHOOL UP TO 10 PEOPLE 4 BC Tickets Needed! www.thecommentator.com ties.Fax name.phone# and brief http://mmmrentals.homepage.com 1 ·800·488-8828 Must be close to field. That's the sports and I.. am.. outta 
note describing experience and 232-2595 or WWW.SANOPIPERBEACON.COM Willing to pay big $. ff I could only get some work done here. interests to Walker at 233-2308. mmm.rentals@aol.com Call Brad @ 232-3464 
Monday, November 15, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NFL 
Flutie's passing leads Bills past Johnson's Dolphins 
Associat~d Pres~ 
Tim AFC Easl not only is the NFl.'s b1•st division, it's the moi,t top hrmvy. 
Tho Buffalo Bills madn certain or that Sundav. 
Buffalo hnai Miami for lhc soc­ond linw this season. winning 23-3 as 1)011g FluUc thrnw a touchdown pass and .Jonathan Linton srnrnd on a 4-yard run. 
Steve Christin kickfld field goals of 31, 48 and 47 yards into tlw wind and thn Bills allowed the Dolphins only 101 yards ­llul'l'alo's t!Jird-best defensive 1wrl'ormance in history. and l\liami's sm:ond-worst offensive prnduction ev11r. 
/\ntowain Smith ruslrnd for u stmson-high 126 yards, the first hack to rush for morn than 100 yards against llrn Dolphins this season. 
"It was nice l'rnm boginning to end," Flutie said. 
Colts 27, Giants 19 
Indianapolis won behind its potent passing duo of Peyton Manning and Marvin Ilarrison. 
Manning hit )Larrison on touchduwn passes of 19 and 57 yards and Terrence Wilkins scornd on a 39-yard punt return as the Colts won their fifth straighl. That matches their longest since moving from Baltimore in 1984. 
The Colts also forced four turnovers in getting off to their best start since opening 1977 with a 9-1 record. The loss snapped a three-game winning streak for th!l host Giants (5-4). 
Browns 16, Steelers 15 
Tim Couch threw two touch­down passes and Phil Vawson hit a :,9-yard field goal as time expired. The upset was perhaps the biggest in the 49-ycar histo­ry of the rivalry. 

Pittsburgh (5-4) led 15-7 with 
10: 10 !fift after Kris Brown's third fiflld goal. But the Browns (2-9), who hadn't crossed mid­field since their opening posses­sion, got John Thierry's inter­Ctlption. 
Couch r,onnectod on a 5-yard TD pass to Marc Edwards, but the Browns missed the 2-point conversion before the winning drive. 
Eagles 35, Redskins 28 
The Eagles (3-7) took advan­tage of six Washington turnovers. Hedskins quarterback Brad Johnson lost two fumbles and was intercepted three times. 
Eric Bienemy scored the deci­sive touchdown on an 11-yard run with 3:17 left. Duce Staley rushed for 122 yards and a touchdown, and Allen Rossum 
r------------------------------------·--·-· 

GOT A WORD FOR OUR TASTY NEW CHICKEN CLUB SANDWICH: 
CRAVEABLE. 

(IT'S NOT A REAL WORD, BUT WE LIKE IT.) 

THE TASTY CHICKEN CLUB IS HERE TO STAY. 
One t>ite of the delicious Chicken Cltil. and you'll always crave the flavor of its all.white-meat chicken lopped With crispy bacon, fresh letluoo and tomato and mayonnaise. And thal's no problem, bacause now this ullra-satislying sandwich is hereto stay al BURGER KING• So come on ,n and indulge your craving 
The Hllddle -Lafortune Student Center PARTICIPATION MAY VARY 

If JUST TASTES BETTER: 
www blirgerk1ng corn 
~C , .... -;,.,_ A_,_ , ,,~----~~, i~ 
Work for Observer Sports. Call 1-4543. 
l 

had an 89-yard TD on a punt return and an 86-yard kickoff return. 
Stephen Davis rushed for 128 yards and two touchdowns for the visiting Redskins (5-4). 
Bucs 17, Chiefs 10 
Embattled Trent Dilfer deliv­ered his second solid perfor­mance since a one-week br~nch­ing, throwing for 270 yards and two touchdowns. Dilfer regained the job last week bemuse Eric Zeier is injured, and he has made most of thP-opportunity in successive victories for Tampa Bay (5-4). 
Visiting Kansas City (5-4) pulled within a touchdown on Elvis Grbac's SO-yard pass to Joe Horn, but couldn't take fur­ther advantage of six Tampa Bay turnovers. Safety Heggie Tongue forced three fumbles and recovered one. 
Vikings 27, Bears 24, OT 
Gary Anderson, who didn't miss a kick last season, botched a 20-yard field goal with 16 sec­onds left. But he hit a 38-yarder in overtime for visiting Minnesota's fourth straight vic­tory, 
The Bears (4-6) blew their own chance to win when Chris Boniol missed a 41-yarder in OT. 
Randy Moss had 12 catches for 204 yards and Cris Carter had nine catches for 141 yards and three touchdowns for the Vikings (6-4). 

LARKIN Accomplished guitarist & folk singer 
TIJESDAY, NOVEMBER 16 •7:30p.m. LffltE 11IFATRE 
Mf~'J 
' C!THEARTS ~HOnt•DA.If., IN 

For ticket information contact Saint Mary's College Box office 
284-4626 

''It's a Wonderful Life'' 
Stage adaptation ofa classic holidayfavorite. 

Sunday, 
November21 at 7:30 p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Fa:ticket information contact 284 4 6 26
tlx Saint Macy's College Box Office ­
Titans 24, Bengals 14 
Tennessee, which yielded 35 points to Cincinnati in the sna­son opener, recover1:d l'our fum­bles and had seven sacks. Eddie George rushed for l 23 yards and a pair of touchdowns for the visiting Titans (7-21. 
Cincinnati (1-9) managPd only 99 net. yards on offense through the first three quarters. But Trem~nM~km~rnedilie~~ ond-half kickoff 99 yards. 
Rams 35, Panthers 10 
Kurt Warner thrnw two touchdown passes, increasing his NFL-leading total to 26. and the Rams got defensive touch­downs from Todd Lyght and Mike Jones. Hust St. Louis (7-2) has a four-game lead in tlrn NFC West. 
Carolina (3-6) yielded six sacks. 
Saints 24, 49ers 6 
The Saints (2-7) broke a seven-gamfl slide with their most impressive victory ever against the 49ers (3-6), who have lost five straight for the first time in 19 years. 
The victory snapped the longest losing streak of coach Mike Ditka's career. It ended a decade of futility for the Saints against San Francisco, which had won the last seven games between the teams, 11 of 12 and 14 of 16. 
Billy Joe Tolliver rushed for two touchdowns and passed for a third at New Orleans. 
• 



..,,.. • .,. ' .,. '", ,, :« ' ' ' ., ,:;! 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, NoVt..:mbcr 15, 1999 
AUTO RACING 
Jarrett takes checkered flag 
Associated Press 
HOMESTEAD, Fla. 

Dale Jarrett wrapped up his first Winston Cup championship on a day when rookie Tony Stewart won his second straight race. 
"Fantastic!" Jarrett yelled after emerging from his No. 88 Ford. "I've just got to thank God for the talent on this race team and putting me here with such great people." 
Jarrett came into the inaugur­al Pennzoil 400 at Homestead­Miami Speedway on Sunday needing to finish only eighth or better to close out runner-up Bobby Labonte in the champi­onship chase. 
He stayed in the top 10 throughout the 267-lap race and finished fifth. He goes into the season finale next week in Atlanta 211 points ahead of Labonte, with a maximum of 185 remaining. 
Jarrett's consistent perfor­mance this season -four victo­ries, 23 top fives and 28 top 10s in 33 starts -gave Robert Yates his first title since he became a car owner in 1989. 
Jarrett led the championship race from the 11th race, May 11 in Richmond, Va. 
"We were running well, we were consistent and we weren't having any problems," he said. "That's when I knew we were kind of in control of our own destiny and if we didn't mess up and do crazy things that this could happen." 
The 43-year-old Jarrett and his father, Ned, who won two series championships, join Lee and Richard Petty as the only father-son combinations to win NASCAR titles. 
The younger Jarrett, who was considered simply a journeyman early in his career, blossomed into a star when he moved into the No. 88 car in 1996. He had finished third, second and third in the last three years. 
Stewart and Labonte, team­mates at Joe Gibbs Racing, exchanged the lead several times in the late going. Labonte had dominated most of the way, leading four times for 17 4 laps. 
Stewart who led four times for 43 laps, is the first NASCAR dri­ver to win three races in his rookie season, breaking the mark of two set by the late Davey Allison in 1987. 
The 28-vear-old driver took the lead f;om Labonte on a pit stop on lap 187 during the only caution of the 400-mile race, which resulted from Ricky Rudd's blown engine. 

Labonte wouldn't let his team­mate get away, passing him for the lead on lap 200 in the battle of Pontiacs. But Stewart regained the top spot with a pass on lap 229. , 
The race then came down to the last pit stops, with Labonte making his stop for a splash or gas and two tires on lap 244 and Stewart doing the same four laps later. 
As Stewart raced off pit lane and back onto the 1 l/2-mile oval near the exit of turn two, he came out alongside Labonte. The two ran side~by-side for a few agonizing moments. Then Stewart's car slid up the track and bumped his teammate, who had to get out of the gas for a moment and slipped behind. 
"I apologize to Bobby Labonte," Stewart said. "I made a rookie mistake and drove into him. I just went in there too hard and couldn't hold my line. Rut I was trying to win the race." 
Labonte, who saw any possi­ble hopes of catching Jarrett in the points disappear with that pass, accepted the apology. 
"I don't think it mattered," he said. "I wouldn't have beat him anyway. I couldn't figure out my tires today. That was mr fault." 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
N.C. State upsets Rutgers at Classic 
Associated Press 
KNOXVILLE. Tenn. 
Tynesha Lewis scored 17 points, leading No. 20 North Carolina State to a 68-55 vic­tory over No. 4 Rutgers in the Women's Tip-Off Classic Sunday. 
Freshmen Terah James added 15 points and Kaayla Chones had 10 as the Wolfpack took the lead in the second minute of the game and never trailed. 
The cold-shooting Scarlet Knights, paced by Shawnetta Stewart with 16 points and Tasha Pointer's 13, shot 35 percent from the field to North Carolina State's 50 percent. 
Rutgers experienced long dry spells in the first half but managed to narrow North Carolina State's lead to 30-24 by halftime. 
But the Wolfpack came out hot in the second half. scor­ing nine straight points and pushing the lead to the largest of the game, 39-24, with 16:56 to play on two free throws by James. 
Rutgers cut the deficit to 
49-41 on a free throw by Pointer with 5:35 left, but got no closer. 
A full-court press by Rutgers in the closing min­utes didn't slow down North Carolina State, and provided breakaways baskets for Lewis, James and Monica Bates. 
No. 6 Louisiana Tech 69, No. 2 Tennessee 64 
Tamicha Jackson scored 21 points and Betty Lennox had 20 to lead No. 6 Louisiana Tech over second-ranked Tennessee. 
For the Lady Volunteers, it was their first home court loss since a 1996 ddeat by Stanford. 
For Louisiana Tech, whose record against the Lady Vols is now 17 -15. including a loss in the 1998 NCAA title game, it was the Lady Techsters' first victory over Tennessee since 1996-97. 
The Lady Techsters hung on after Tennessee rallied from 18 points down in the second half to tie it at 58 with 5:13 to play on a put­back by Michelle Snow. 
The O'Brien-Smith Visiting Scholars Program Presents: 
3:30 p.m., Wednesday, November 17 
College of Business University of Notre Dame 
FREE AND OPEN TO THE PUBLIC 
Stepbel-1 J. Brown 
David S. Loeb Professor Qf Finance 
Leonard N. Stern School of Business New York University 
For information: 631.3277 or www.nd.edu/~cba 


Monday, November I5, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
LPGA 
Pak wins Tour Championship on first playoff hole 
in regulation, but missed her "It's dejinitely been a The other victory came i.n a 20­
Associated l're,s 
20-footer in the playoff. hole playoff for the U.S. Open
year to remember. You
Still, Webb clinched player of last year, the centerpiece of a
LAS VEC;As 

the year with her 22nd top-10 don't know how many of sensational year in which the
In a dramatic finish to tlrn 
finish in 25 events this vear. these years are going to 21-year-old South Korean won
sPason. Sil Hi Pak shapnll a 
and shn shattered the LPGA two majors and set two scoring
shol around a trnP to 3 fo1il for come by."
Tour season scoring average records. 
a birdie 011 Urn first suddnn­
with 69.43. more than a half­Shackled by the pressurn
ckal.h playoff hole Sunday to 
point better than the previous Karrie Webb from sudden stardom. Pak
win tlw I.I'(;/\ Tour 
mark set by Annika Sorenstam spent the first half of the year
professional goHer
Championship ov1ir Kurrie 
last vear. finding her freedom and adjust­
W1lhli and I.aura Davies. 
"It\ <lelini1.ely been a year to ing to an American lifestyle.
Pak won for lhn fourth tinw playoff record fell to 1-8, but
rcmembnr," Wobb said. "You She surfaced happier than
this ynar and now has eight. not until her 25-foot chip
don't know how many of these ever, and proved this week that
vil'.torh\S in just twll seasons on straight down the slope stopped
years am going to come by." her game is as strong as ever.
tlw Ll'CA Tour, tlw bnst start one revolution from dropping.
.luli Inkster. needing to win A great finish to the year also
sin<'.I' Na111'.y Lopnz 20 years "I chipped very well this
for a chance at playe·r of the revealed what could be a great
ago. l'ak Panwd $215,000. week. and I thought I had one 
year, was one strokn off the rivalry for years to come
Wcbh w,ls lryin~ to hncomc more in me,'' Davies said
lead at thl' turn but failed to hetween Pak and Webb, who
L111• first playM sinco Hnth before rushing away from the
keep up lhe pace and wound have emerged as the most tal­
J)anit'I in 11)90 lo win f;nven Desert Inn Golf Club to catch a 
up live strokes out of the play­ented players of their genera­
Lirwis in a season. Shn birdind flight lo Portugal. "I don't want 
off. tion.
Lwo of tlw last four holes to gnt to finish second anv more. I'm
Davies, a big winner in the Pak. tied for the lead with
inlu th,~ playoff', including an fed up with that." · 
casinos, came up a loser in a Lorie Kane. finished with a 70.
approa1:h lo 4 font on the 18th Pak is now 2-0 in playoffs.
playoff once again. lier career Webb and Davies each had a 

OOWBOYMOUTH 
let-'sj~ StAy it'll be di 1it+le ~ e,ccit,i"' i-M'l ~Joki\..... 
~oveMbeY 17 
"'t 'Ster"'"-Ce\\t-ev­

(otMi\\B 011.t of New ov-lem.\\S wil-v. \.\its ':Je""Y 'S"'ys'' 
+i.cke+-s m.VO\i\"'ble O\t' L"'Fov-i--\.\\\e l\\fo Desk 
"'\\.J. ''How Do You Tell So""eo\\e?'\ Cowboy t-\01At-h 
OY C0\11 ''3.1-8'12.f 

68 to finish at 12-under 276. 
Akiko Fukushima birdied the last two holes for a 69 that left her alone in fourth. three strokes out of the playoff. Lorie Kane had a 74 and was at 280. 
Davies surged ahnad with three straight birdies starting on the 11th lo get to 12-undcr. but she missed s1wnral good chances down the strntch. Pak got to l 2-undcr with a two-putt birdie from 20 font on thn I 5th nnd solid pars tlw rest of the way. 
The danger came ['rom Webb. She nearly repeated her remarkable feat from the du Maurier Classic, whom shl' birdied three ol' the last four holes to beat Davios and win her first major championship. 
Webb also had a two-putt birdie l'rom 20 feet on the 15th and gave herself chances on the final three holes. Hr.r approach from a fairway bunker on the 17th stopped five feet above the hole, but the putt hung on the right lip. 
The 24-year-old Australian, needing birdie on the 18th to get into the playoff, split the fairway with her drive, hit an aggressive approach into four feet and made the putt. 
The one piece of drama that never unfolded was the battle between Webb and Inkster. thn two dominant players on tour this year with 11 tournaments and three majors between them. Inkster needed a victory to have any chance of captur­ing the points-based player of the year award, and she gave it 
...._......,_,___ 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, November 15, 1999 
W.Soccer 
continued from page 24 
sprawling LeKeysia Beene and into the far right corner. 
Irish coach Randy Waldrum was not pleased with his team's first half effort. 
"I didn't think we were sharp or focused,.. said Walclrum. "We've let teams hang around all year, and I kind of got into them a bit a halftime." 
Waldrum's motivational half­time speech may have been just what the Irish women needed. An entirely new team emerged after the intermis­sion, one dete1'mined to extend its season. 
Focused and rejuvenated the Irish used the wind, now blow­ing at their backs, to the their advantage by sending a non­stop barrage of balls in the direction of the Flyers' goal. 
Racing towards the nel, Heft knocked in Mentis Erikson's rebound to give the Irish a 2-1 lead, and extend her career school goal scoring record to 80. 
"I was able to get in the right position, and fortunately the ball came my way." said Heft. who was injured on the play. "My ankle twisted a bit and I landed on my tailbone, but I'm fine." 
Now playing with the lead, the Irish proceeded to pour on the offense. Kara Brown launched a cross from the far right side, allowing the wind to do the rest of the work. Her wind blown ball soared into the far left corner, just over the outstretched hands of the Dayton keeper_ 
"The wind was definitely a factor," said Waldrum. "It's a psychological thing. You play better when you think you have a11 advantage." 
Just moments later, Monica Gonzalez took a pass from Makinen and sent a rocket into the bottom right corner. 
Makinen capped the scoring with a goal of her own as she sent a booming shot passed a Dayton keeper that had little to no chance on the play. Flyer coach Mike Tucker realized his team was overmatched. 
"We hung in there for 60 minutes. Unfortunately, they're just bigger, stronger and faster. They were -too much at the end." 
The Irish were relieved to escape with a victory consider­ing their sluggish first half performance. 
"We didn't play very well," said Makinen. "We were lucky to convert in the second half." 
"If we play like this against Stanford next week, we won't win," Waldrum noted. 
The Irish will take on the Stanford Cardinal at 7:30 Friday night as third-round NCAA tournament action begins in another home game to played in the friendly con­fines of Alumni Field. 


First-half complacency leaves Irish vulnerable 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Associate Spores Editor 

The Irish are sinking into a dangerous routine. 
After playing down to their opponents' level in the first half and going into halftime tied or with just a one goal lead, the Irish explode in the second half to pull away with an appar­ently easy victory. 
While the Irish got away with this on Saturday against Dayton, they know that this kind of effort won't be enough against stronger teams like Stanford, who visit Alumni Field Saturday for the third round of the NCAA tournament. 
"I was a little bit pissed off at halftime," head coach Randy Waldrum said about his team's first half effort. "It's been that way all sea­son in the games that we should go out and win and win decisively, we let those teams hang around." 
Snnday was not the first time that Waldrum got after his team at half time for poor first half efforts in playoff games. In tho quar­terfinals of tho Big East championships, Waldrum also delivered a fiery half­time speech when his team led just 1-0 at halftime. 
Despite Waldrum's half­time speeches, the team continues to play poorly in the first half -a situation that the players cannot explain. 
-' "1 wish I could answer that," Irish captain Jon Grubb said about a solution to the first half struggles. "I think it would help us out a whole lot if we could figure out why we come out slow and tired in the first half." In Sunday's first half, the Irish outshot the Flyers l 1­

2 and controlled the ball in Dayton's end for most of the half. Although they con­trolled the action, the Irish only scored once while the Flyers also got a goal. 
"I don't know why we do that to ourselves," senior Jenny Streiffer said about the poor first half. "We don't put people away. We don't finish our shots and we give up a goal. At half­time, we all kind of get together and realize that we if we play like that again we are gone." 
As bad as the Irish tend to play in the first half, they always seem to turn it around in the second half. Sunday, after senior Jenny Heft scored the game win­ner in the 67th minute, the Irish offense came to life. Senior defender Kara Brown scored less than a minute later foH~ed by goals from juniors Monica Gonzalez and Anne Makinen to put the Irish up 
5-1. 

Dayton head coach Mike Tucker believed that Notre Dame was able to take over the game in the second half because it was more talent­ed than Dayton. 
"We knew had to play it close to the vest and hope that we can find a way to get a second goal and shut them down," Tucker said. "Unfortunately they are big­ger, stronger and faster and they wore us down mentally and physically." 
Despite the incroase in scoring in the second half, Waldrum was not complete­ly satisfied with the team's play in the second half. 
"I got into them a bit at halftime but really it wasn't that much better in the sec­ond half," Waldrum said. "I didn't think we were sharp. I didn't think wo were focused and we can't play that way against Stanford next week if we expect to win." 
One or the reasons for Notre Dame's better play in the second half could have been the wind. In the first half the Irish played into the swirling wind and watched it play havoc with their long passes and clears. In the second half, however, the Irish were able to use the wind to tlrnir advantage. 
"It's hard to play against the wind," Grubb said. "It made services go out of bounds. It made a big dif­ference when we got the wind." 
In the first half, Dayton used long balls to counter­attack and score its only goal. Going into the wind in the second half. however, the Flyers attack was grounded. 
"The wind definitely made a difference," said Danielle Gillespie, who scored the Flyer goal. "Our counter was completely taken away." 
With the pressure mount­ing as they advance furtlwr into the tournament. the Irish know they can't us,~ wind or weather as excuses for poor first half efforts. 
The bottom line for tlrn Irish is that they have to improve on their first half' efforts. 
"We knew we were play­ing awful," Hert said. "We knew we had to step it up. This could have been our last game of the season so we had to pick it up. In the first half, we were playing slow. We weren't finishing our shots. There is a defi­nitely a change in the mind set in the second half. We picked it up. We played faster and got a few goals." 
----------------...--------------------......... 
l 
l 
j

Monday, November 15, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
-

COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
Eagles climb slope to bowl eligibility 
A.ssoria1cd Press 
BOSTON 

Boston Collng«i usml big plays 
to takn a big stnp toward its 
first howl lwrth in five years as 
Cndrir Washington ruslrnd for 
l 8 I yards in a :H-I 7 victory 
ovcir Wnst Virginia on 
Sat11rday. 
Tlw l;_aglcs scori\d third­
1p1art.1·r touchdowns on Pndrn 
Cirino's (1'.{-yard l'umhln rnturn 
and Tim llassc\]bcck's U1-yard 
pass lo l>ndrick Dnwalt lo 
hrnak opnn a ganrn tlwy Ind 17­
10 al hall'tinw. 
BC: (7-2. 4-2 Big East) had 
four olhnr plays covnring morn 
lhan 20 yards as it came hack 
from a bye wcnk Lo dominatP 
llw Mo1mtainncrs (3-7, 2-41, 
•who rwarly hnal Virginia Tech a wn11k earlier. 
Tlw llokies won that ganrn 
22-20 on a last-play finkl goal 
and movml up mm spot to the 
No. 2 national ranking whilr, 
insuring ii losing snuson f'or 
W1ist Virginia. 
Tlw Mountairwers lost starl­
ing quartnrback Marc Bulgnr in 
that gaml' with a bone chip in 
his right lhumb, and Brad 
I.Pwis replacnd him against BC. 
With road games rnmaining at Notrn Damn and Virginia 
Trch, the worst the Eagles can finish in the regular season is 7-4. 
Their 24-23 win at Syracusu two weeks ago broke a string of' four straight losing seasons since they beat Kansas State in the 1994 Aloha Bowl. On Saturday, they beat the Mountaineers for the second time in their last nine mretings. 
After going without a first down on its first two 1rnssos­sions, BC's offense dominated as tlw line oppnecl huge holes l'or Washington. The Mountaineers led 7-0 after l.1\wis' 15-yard scoring pass to Anthony Becht before BC got rolling on its third series. 
It had first clowns on each of' its fiwi plays in the 88-yard march cappnd by Carlton Howe's l 2-yard touchdown run. Tlrnir other scoring drives covered 78 and 65 yards, end­ing in John Matich's 35-yard linld goal and llassHlbBck's 1­yard run. 
But the Mountaineers, out­gained 291 yards to 134 in thr half', cut the lnad to l 7-10 on Jay Taylor's 41-yard field goal on the last play. They drove again on the opnning series of' the third quarter, gutting a first down at the BC 32-yard line. 
0PRING QREAKS 

L~ s•~nre '11·,r11 ... by ~ooki~g a
•.,,,.. I b • M1llenmum 

, .....-.,_,, • Spring Break with Sunchase! 
PGA 

Winning streak ends for Woods 
Associated Press 

TA SIIEE, Taiwan 
His !'our-tournament win­ning streak over, Tiger Woods walked off the course after finishing sixth at the Johnnie WalkHr Classic. 
And he didn't feel like talk­ing about it. 
A winner in eight uf his last 11 tournaments, Woods puttP.d poorly all week and his game deserted him entirely on the front nine Sunday. But the way Michael Campbell of' New Zealand played, there was no chance of Woods making another wrneback. 
Campbell, who contendHd in Briiish Open at St. Andrews in I 995 but hasn't won since that year, closed with a 2-under 70 l'or a one-stroke victory over Geoff Ogilvy of Australia. 
"TigHr, he's a frpak of nature," Camphflll s'aid. "I mean Tiger is so phenomenal it's frightening. ThH only way wH can dHft~al Tiger is for him to make mistakes." 
Woods flnternd the day four strokes off the pace and fin­ished five strokes behind in the $1.3 million event, which is not part of the PGA Tour. 
Last year, Woods came from eight strokes behind in the linal .round to catch Ernie Els and beat him in a playoff. But Campbell was steady, and a diflicult two-putt par down the ridge gave him a 276 and the victory. 
Els made two bogeys down the stretch and was third at 
278. Woods closed with a 71 for a 281 at Ta Shoe Golf and Country Club. 
Campbell, who earned $215,330, played so badly in 1996 and 1997 he considered leaving golf'. 
"It's just unbelievable," he said. "It's bHen a long frustrat­ing last four years." 
Woods committed all sorts of errors Sunday. First, he hooked his drive on the sixth hole into the rough and down a gully beside a hedge, forcing him to take a stroke. 
"I want all tlrnsH peoplH out of here," a scowling Woods told marshals as he charged through the gallery to !ind his ball and ended up with a dou­ble bogey. 

Then, on the eighth hole, things got worse. He drove into the rough, hit his recov­ery shot into the watHr and took three putts for a triple bogey. 
Campbell's victory didn't appear secure until the last few holes. He had started strongly, with birdies on the first two holes and another on the sixth. On thH seventh hole, however, he wound up in a sand trap and took a double bogey. 
"That was my disastHr hole," he said. 
With Els and Ogilvy in pur­suit, Campbell was in a thrnu­way tie for the lead on the 14th hole. But bogeys by Els and Ogilvy put him in the clear. 
"Initially, I was disappoint­Hd," Ogilvy said. "I felt 1 played good enough to maybe have a chance to win." 
Els, who won this event in 1997 when it was in Thailand, had trouble again on the 16th holH. He had a bogHy tlrnre Sunday and a double bogey Saturday. 
"Yesterday, I said it was a ridiculous hole," he said. "And I still say that." 
LASVEGAS 
································· 
DESTIN 
························ 

INFORMATION & RESERVATIONS 
1-800-SUNCHASE www.sunchase.com 
HOMES FOR RENT 
-Domus Properties has six, seven, and eight bedroom houses available 
-Student neighborhoods close to 
campus -Security systems provided -Well maintained homes -Maintenance staff on call 
Available for the 2000/2001 school year BETTER HURRY!!! ONLY 4 HOUSES LEFT 
Contact Kramer (219)274-1501 or (219)234-2436 or (219)674-2572 

'I 
page 20 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

-
Volunteers hopes for national title fade 
ured to put the Vols in the 
Associated Pres. 
national championship game. The Stoerner pass to Lucas 
FAYETTEVILLE, Ark. will he · rememberPd by 
Tennessee was primed for Arkansas fans, but there was another run at the national another Stoerner touchdown championship. but Arkansas pass that might have been just 
may hav1> end1>d th1> Volunteers as important. hopes. . Travis Henry's 28-yard run ­Trailing by three pomts, three plays after Rayn?ch Razorbarks quarterback Clint Thompson intercepted a tw1ce­Stoerner found Anthony Lucas deflflcted pass -put the Vols i.n for a 23-yard touchdown pass front 24-14 with 8:46 left in the with 3:44 left to give Arkansas third quarter. a 28-24 upset victory. But lflss than three minutes 
"We were giant killers today," later. Stoerner put a pass over said Arkansas coach HouSton the shoulder of Boo Williams, Nutt. who caught it for a 53-yard
With the loss. the Volunteers score that made it 24-21. fell four spots to No. 7 i°: the AP "We run that when we nePd a pnll and are no long~r m ~ood bicr play," Williams said. position to dflfond their national Stoerner completed 18-of-28 Litle. ' for 228 yards and three touch­
"We were outcoached and downs and the offensive line, outplayed," said Tennessee which gave up five sacks coach Phillip Fulmer. "We pre-against Mississippi, did not pared well but I tl~ink they_emo-allow a sack. 
tionally and physically whipped for th1> past year, Stoerner us. Whoever has the most heart has been asked about the play wins the ball game." on which he stumbled and fum-
Thc winning TD pass had bled with less than two minutes already worked twice, but to play and Arkansas in front of Stoerner told Lucas to run a Tennessee, 24-22. He never post route instead of an out pat-pointed fingers even though he 
tern. tripped over the foot of an 
"When I caught it--ooooh -offensive lineman. adrenaline just shot through my 'Tm sure I'll still hear about body," Lucas said. all of it," said Stoerner, who 
Despite an early season loss admits he hides his emotions. to Florida, Tennessee was No. 2 "Now it will be, 'How do you in the Bowl Championship feel now that you've redeemed Series. Victories over Arkansas, yourself?"' Kentucky and Vanderbilt fig-
Cornhuskers exact revenge on Wildcats 
still goes up as one win in the 
Associated Press 
books." But it was a big win. K-State,LINCOLN, Neb. 
which was averaging 394.3
If it was a new era in the yards, never got its offenseseries between Nebraska and 
going. Jonathan Beasley com­Kansas, it was short lived. 
pleted just 3-of-19 passes forThe Cornhuskers on Saturday 100 yards and Frank Murphylooked more like the team that was the Wildcats top rusher
dominated the series for 29 
with 51 yards.
straight years than the one that 
"You cannot get behind a
lost at Kansas State a year ago. 
good team like Nebraska andNebraska scored five touch­
hope it comes out like the otherdowns on the nation's fourth­games," said K-State runningranked scoring defense in a 41­back Joe Hall, who had 10
15 win, putting the No. 4 yards on three carries. "You
Huskers (9-1 overall, 6-1 Big have to get on them from the12) on top in the Big 12 North get go or it won't go good." 
Division race. 
Nebraska was very nearly the 
"Our· program made a big 
team playing catch-up. Running statement today as far as where back Dan Alexander fumbled we are in the national rankings on the first play from scrim­and just how good of a football mage, giving the Wildcats theteam we really are," said Eric 
ball at the Nebraska 28-yard
Crouch. who rushed for a sea­line. But the Huskers' defense
son-high 158 yards and two held and end Kyle Vandentouchdowns and set a record 
Bosch swatted away Jaime
for Husker quarterbacks with 
Rheem 's 40-yard field goal
27 carries. 
attempt, setting the tone for the
Nebraska, which had 378 
rest of the garn e.
yards of offense, became the "Even when they had us onfirst team to gain 300 yards the ropes we just kept coming," against Kansas State (9-1, 6-1). 
Nebraska defensive back Mike
The Huskers blocked a field 
Brown, who intercepted his fifth goal, two punts and forced four pass of the season Saturday. "It
fumbles while holding the 
just shows how we can play. We Wildcats to 234 total yards. 
can play pretty well when we
The Huskers said they 
want to. We'rn capable of play­weren't thinking about the 40­ing some dominating football." 
30 loss to the Wildcats last year 
If there was a down side tothat snapped Nebraska's 29­Saturday's game for Nebraska 
year stronghold on the series. 
it was fumbles. The Huskers"I don't think revenge played 
dropped the hall a school­anything in it. We certainly record 10 times and lost it
didn't beat that drum at all," 
three. Correll Buckhalter fum­
Nebraska coach Frank Solich bled at the goal line for the
said. "You do have to move on. 
fourth time in the last three
As big as this win is for us it games. 

The Observer . SPORTS Monday, November 15, l999 
Hokies seek respect from BCS 
Associated Press 
BLACKSBURG, Va. 

Virginia Tech hopes it has marle believers out of any remaining doubters. . 
Miami brought speed like the Hokies haven't seen all year and the resolve to end a four-game losing streak against the Bullie_s . ?f Blacksburg. But No. 2 V1rguna Tech turned away the Hurricanes m9re easily than Plorida State or Penn State had, 43-10 Saturday. 
"We knew we had to show people that we can win," quarterback Micha?! Vick said. "People am lookmg past us because of our schedule. We really don't care about that. We don't make our schedule. We just go out and play the games. 
"We beat Syracuse 62-0. We beat Miami 43-10 or whatever it was. If people don't think that we' re a good football team now, I don't know what's wrong." 
The victory, combined with Arkansas· surprise 28-24 vic­tory against Tennessee, should also boost the Hokies to No. 2 in the Bowl Championship Series stand­ings that will decide the teams that play in the national championship on Jan. ·4 in the Sugar Bowl. 
The new BCS rankings will be released Monday. 
All season, Virginia Tech has heard talk that a schedule including I-AA James Madison, Alabama-Birmingham and Big East basement contenders Rutgers and Temple didn't measure up for a national championship contender. 
It's time for you to make the calls. To create your own future. To have a real impact. After all, it's your world. 
And we'd be a perfect fit. Because only at Ford Motor Company will you find a spectrum of opportunities this broad and a level of impact this impressive. The fact is, we're experiencing a major transformation -to a consumer company that provides automotive products and services. And to be successful, we need professionals with the hunger to learn. The knowledge to teach. And the ability to lead. We're entering a period full of blg challenges -and even bigger decisions. 
Is your world ready for it? Please join us for a presentation by; 


John A. Kaplan Executive Vice President Ford Motor Land Services 
Jordan Auditorium College of Business Administration November 16, 1999 
1:00 p.m. 

Ford Representatives will be available to answer your questions and discuss career opportunities with Ford Motor Company. 
8'/ d1oloe;...,...,.., fQual Oppo,tualty fmpll>/e>" commltbod tD • aJlturollY di\renie ~­
"If people don't think we 're a good football team, I don 't know what's wrong.,, 
Michael Vick Virginia Tech quarterback 
The Vols, who lost to Florida earlier this season. had leapfrogged the llokies last week when they thrashed Notre Dame 38-14 and Virginia Tech needed a last­play field goal by Shayne Graham to beat rival West Virginia 22-20 in Morgantown. 
But then Arkansas stunned the Vols long before the Hokies and Hurricanes kicked off, and the Hokies bounced back from an early 10-0 deficit and scored 43 unan­swered points. 
"A lot of people don't believe we're a good football team," said cornerback Ike Charlton, who recovered three fumbles, the last of which he returned for a touchdown. "We take that to heart. We like playing the underdog ro!P.." 
Anthony Midget added three interceptions for Virginia Tech, which thtee times knocked Hurricanes quarter­back Kenny Kelly woozy. the sophomore finally leaving for good in the fourth quarter. Miami quarterbacks were sacked five times. 
Corey Moore had two of the sacks, bringing his total for the season to 15, and said he thought the llokies wore Miami down by matching them physically. 
"At 26-10, l thought those guys weren't giving the great 
Michael H. Rogers Chief Financial Officer Ford Unlimited Enterprise and carclub.com 
effort they had been giving," Moorn said. "We felt that and wanted to put the glove on them.·• 
The end came quickly after Miami was forced to punt with 
13:39 to play. 

Ricky !!all fielded the ball at his 34, got blocking up t.ho l!~ft sideline and thrrn cut back across the field for a touch­down. Twenty-four seconds later. Clinton Portis ran up the middle for seven yards, was hit by Moorr! and the ball popped loose. Charlton scooped it up and raced down thP lnft sideline, his touch­down whipping tlrn crowd in a rout-is-on frenzy. 
In all, the llokies forcml six turnovers. allowed Miami just 98 yards of offense in the sec­ond half and all but secured the Big East championship. 
"Thev are a vrry complete foolba·ll t1rnm." Hurricanes coach Butch Davis, now 0-5 against Urn llokies. "The.y are outstanding dflfensc. Their offense has explosiveness.... They roally don't havfl a lot of weakness­
es.ft 

Now, if the llokies can Temple and No. 25 Boston College to close out their first perfect season since tlw 1918 team went 7-0. they hope that will earn them one of the spots in the Sugar Bowl title game. 
"We showed the BCS whoever wants to rank us that we are one of the elite pro­grams in the country and can win,'' Vick said. 
"Temple knocked us off last year. We've got to focus 1~n them and hopefully get a wm against Boston College and whatever happens after that just happens." 

1 
l 

Monday, November 15, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 HOCKEY 
Irish earn first sweep of season, move up in CCHA 
Ry RILL HART 
As.social~ Spom Edicor 
Allnr a dillir.ult road trip west Inst w1rnkend, Notre Dame's hockl•y team lookl'd for somn rnliof'. 
What happ1mnd instead was a two-ganrn homo s11rios against Alaska Fairbanks, Notre Danm's 1•qwLI in LhP CCIIA standings. 
As it turned out, howcv11r, rnturning hotnt! proved to bo just Lim remf'dy, as the Irish bouneed back into the upper half of the confornnce with 1-0 and ]-2 victori11s against the 

r,:=::=========,...,.,====-=-======= saves on the evening. The Nanooks, on the other hand, endured their lirst set of back­SALON NOUVEAU to-back shutouts in 21 years. 
"The defonsemen were play­ing just great in front of me," Zasowski said. "It entered my
PRESENTS 

mind late in the first period, because we were playing so Ugh t defensively, that we haven't seen much of that. We just kept driving at them." 

The biggest surprise on the night was the frish penalty killing unit, which was ranked 11th in the conference heading into this weekend. On Friday,
Our new Campus Salon however, the home team stopped all seven UAF powerLower Level LeMans Hall, play opportunities. 
Jurkowski, a major spark on the squad over the past several
Saint Mary's 

weeks, continued to lift the· struggling Irish offense. With the weekend, he has earned
Open Tuesday-Friday 12:00 P.M. -8:00 P.M. 
points in six of his last. seven
Saturday 10:00 A.M. -7:00 P.M. games. ".Jurkowski really stood out tonight," Poulin remarked. "Not
An Aveda Concept Salon 

just because of the goal but 
284-5363 because that whole line of Jurkowski, Henning and [Ryan) Dolder was good all night. But
Hair -Skin -Make-up -Nails -Waxing -Tanning 
then they have been good all 
Nanooks. rebound and redirected a shot 
"Four points coming out of a by the left post. weekend is huge," head coach While the Irish owned a 15-4 Dave Poulin said. "We've had shot advantagn in the first peri­lwo nne-goal games and where od, the Nanooks played evenly wn've had to hang on until the against them for the rest of the end and our goalie· played terrif­game. ic." Both teams were hampered by 
Tho Irish set the tone early on penalties. preventing either Friday night, when senior left from gaining any offensive wing Andy Jurkowski scnred the advantage. In the final minutes, only goal of the game, six min­UAF made some steps toward utes and 19 seconds into the Lying the game in regulation, contest. .Jurkowski was set up but a hooking penalty with one by freshman Brett Henning, who minute remaining ended the slid the puck to him from the Nanooks scoring threat for the right boards. After attempting a night. return pass, Jurkowski took a Irish goaltender Tony 
Zasowski turned in his first career shutout, recording 19 
year." 

In the second game, the Nanooks ended a scoreless stretch that lasted more than 136 minutes when junior right wing Ryan Reinheller slid a rebound shot past Zasowski 
7:25 into the game. While the · Irish were able to regain some of their momentum from the previous game early on, three penalties in the first period put the home team on the defensive end. 
The two teams traded eight penalties in the second period, beginning with a bench minor that was given to Notre Dame at the end of the first. After Jay Kopischke earned a high-stick­ing penalty at 11 :52 mark, it took one minute for the Nanooks to add to their lead when sophomore Daniel Carrii>.re scored his fifth goal of the season otr" a pass from Kevin McNeill. 
With their backs against the wall, the Irish started their comeback four minutes into the final period, when Dolder scooped a rebound from .Jurkowski and senic1r defense­man Tyson Fraser and slid it into the left side for his second goal of the season. 
The Irish evened the score on a power play at the midpoint of the period, after Nanook Kerry Hafele was called for hooking at the 9:31 mark. 
It took less than a minute for the team to take advantage, when freshman Brett Henning, stationed at the top of the crease, tipped a shot from team­mate Evan Nielsen over UAF goaltender Lance Mayes' stick and into the left side of the net. 
"I got the puck at point from Dusbabek," Nielsen said. "And I saw Henning at the side of the net. I just slid it towards the net and he took it right in." 
Nielsen got his first goal of his on left wing Sjon Wynia. 
Senior right wing Joe Dusbabek took the puck down the left side of the ice before passing it to Henning, who feigned a shot before going behind the Nanook net. Henning swept to the other side before passing the puck to Nicls,~n. who fired a shot from lhc bot­tom of the right circle inside the left post. 
"I came around and I was going to stuff it," llenning remarked on tho play. "I saw Nielsen coming down and the goalie didn't see him, so I just gave it to him." 
The Nanooks had one last chance with a just over two minutes remaining, when Wynia took a shot on a 2-1 advantage def'p in tho Irish zone. But Zasowski stopped the shot with ease. ending the UAF scoring threat for the night. "Wli were not effective in the first two pe-riods," Poulin said. "The third period is an indicalion of how good we can be. It's an indica­tion that we can play, that we can dominate and that we can get the puck in tho net and fin­ish." 
. With the sweep, Notre Dame improves its record to 4-6-2 on the season and 3-5-2 in CCI IA play, good enough f'or a tie with Ferris State for fifth place in the conference. The Irish return to the ice in two weeks, when they travel east to take on New Hampshire and Vermont. 
Because the team does not return to conference action for another three weeks against Michigan State, moving back to the middle ground of the CCHA 
standings  was  important to  
Poulin.  
"It  was  huge  in  just  all  

respects." he said. "We have an off-week now. and then non­conference games after that. So we're going to have to sit and 
collegiate career at the 16:07 watch the league standings, at 
mark of the third period, 25 sec­least now we've put ourselves in 
onds into a UAF holding penalty the middle of the pack." 
Domino's Pizza Delivery to ND/SMC/HC 
-
271-0300 

EARLY WEEK SPECIAL! 
Every Monday, Tuesday, & Wednesday 
The weekend isn't too far away ... 

r-------------------, 
1 2 Large Pizzas w/ Cheese I I $899 I 
I . I
$1 Per Topping 1
1 
I Add Breadsticks for $1 I 
I Good every Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday I I Visa/Mastercard/Discover and Checks Welcome! I 
L-------------------J 



------------...... 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, November 15, 1999 
.... 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Three players sign national letters of intent for Irish 
Special to The Observer 
University of Notre Dame bas­ketball coach Matt Doherty has announced that three players have signed national letters of intents and plan on enrolling at Notre Dame in the fall and play­ing for Doherty's squad. 
The three are; Torrian Jones, a 6-foot-4, 185-pound guard from Pennsbury High School in Fairless Hills, Pa.: Tom Timmermans, a 6-foot-11, 235­pound center from Blue Ridge School in Dyke, Va.; and Chris Markwood, a 6-foot-5, 185­pound guard from South Portland High School in South Porlland, Maine. 
Jones averaged 17 points per game last year at Pennsbury for head coach Frank ScioJla as the 

X-Country 
continued from page 24 
Irish lineup. 
"One through seven, all those guys competed very well,". said Piane. "They ran well, but again, to a man, I'll tell you they can run better." 

.. 
The Irish placed sixth at the Pre-Nationals meet, at which 
many of the top teams in the nation compet~d. 
This marked the eighth time in the past 10 years that the Irish have advanced to the NCAA Championships, all under the coaching of Piane, who is in his 25th season at Notre Dame. 
The women's team placed fourth overall behind No. S Wisconsin, No. 19 Michigan Statfl and No. 15 Michigan; who place<l first, secun<l and thin.I, respectively. The Irish also placed fourth in their region in 1998. 
''I thought we ran really poor­ly," Trish women's head coach Tim Connelly said. "Different peoplP, different reasons. It was a do-or-die situation. They put a whole lot of pressure on themselves." 
The exception to the poor performances was Klemmer, who placed sixth in the meet. Sbe earned all-region honors and a chance to run in the NCAA Championships. It was her third time being cited all­region for the Irish. 
"She just put herself where shf' wanted to be. and stayed there." Connelly said. 
"It was what I was hoping to do," Klemmer said. "I really 
didn't know how good some of 
the other girls in the race were. 
Senior Nicole LaSelle, injured for most of the season, finished second for the Irish in 51st place in 18;19.60, followed by classmate Patty Rice, who was 53rd overall in a time of 
18:21.60. Freshman Jennifer Handley, one of Notre Dame's top runners throughout the year, took 58th, having missed out on training due to an injury. "I don't want to make excus­
es," Handley said. "But I don't 
know how ready I was for the 
race. As a team, we really 
didn't perform very well." 
The fifth through seventh 
runners on the SK course for 
the Irish were juniors Chrissy 
Kuenster and Erin Olson, and ·senior Erin Luby, respectively. 
"I know everyone went out 
there and ran as hard as they 
possibly could," Klemmer said. 
"There just wasn't enough left 
over." 
The Irish missed top competi­
tor JoAnna Deeter, who has not 
raced since early October. 
Connelly was doubtfu·I that 
the Irish would receive an at­
large bid for nationals. 
''They have to get to us first," 
Connelly said. "We've beaten 
three teams that arc automati­
cally qualified outside of our 
districts, but the problem is 
that Michigan really hasn't." 
Thirty-one teams take part. in t.he national meet Nov. 22, in Bloomington, Ind. Eighteen of the teams receive automatic berths for finishing in thr top two at regionals, while the other 13 are selected at-large based on what ranked teams they have beaten during the course of the season. 

team won 26 games -the most South Portland, averaging 21.5 aged 12.5 points per game last in school history. points, 6.3 assists, 4.9 rebounds year at Blue Ridge for head Markwood earned first-team and four assists for head coach coach Bill Ramsey along with 10 
all-state honors last season at Tony DiBiase Timmermans aver-rebounds. 
University of Notre Dame 


,-:.,.""f• International ::!f ~! \~ 
,.; ·-·... 
Study Program in 
..,, 
-•. 
.. ·!...l ·,' ' : 

~~ ;;-.{f 
-... :,.,:;,.• -."':\:¥"_,.~.....-..,... '• ·.· ,•' ,' 
INNSBRUCK, AUSTRIA 2000 -2001 ACADEMIC YEAR APPLICATION DEADLINE: 12/1/99 
For information on the program or the application process 
Attend the Informational Meeting with Innsbruck Returnee~ and Campus 
Co-ordinator, Hannelore Weber. 
Tuesday, November 16, 1999 
4:30 PM, in Room 206 DeBartolo 
The multicultural Student Hffairs Office 
6 

The Hfrican 6 Hfrican-ftmerican Studies Program proudly present 
African Dance & Drum 
Workshf!P 
By 

Boynarr Mamadou Sow, Master Instructor of West-African Dance & Drumming from Senegal 
Dates & Time: 
Friday Nov. 19 @ 4:30 PM 
& 

Sunday Nov. 21 @ 3:00 PM 
Venue: Ballroom/Lafortune 

\.~_

------------------------------------------------------------------------------·-­
Monday, November 15, 1999 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
... 

TOM KEELEY JEFF BEAM
FOURTH AND INCHES A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 
I.Jl-loA, lASi' NltStti Mi.J',T :f~Oi\N, l-1 />,VE. YOIJ SEE: WHOA! LI\ST t.J\a'.,,~ M.V.Sr \\~\JE:. BEEN t>, <.o:;,I) otJE-. ,.,._i 11-E!'Rlb't..RAioR lt~VE 8W A E,11.El\r-OWE! :t'VE Gor A \\U<:,E. ~bPtlll \ r. U\lJ' 
BILL AMEND
Fox TROT 
GoSH, WHEN SHE PuTC:. 1T THAT WAY. I'L.LGO 
MAI(£ US
' 
SOME 
MEGA­PHONES. 
I 

Sometimes you have to seriously doubt the sanity of joggers. 
beam.1@nd.edu 

------------_-_--::._-_-_--::._--::._-_-_-_-_-_-_---::._-_-_--::._--::._-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_--::._-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_---::._--::._-_-_--::._--::._-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-::...-_-_--::._-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_--::._-_-_--::._--::._-_-_-_-_-_-_--::._-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_---::._-_-_--::._-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_--::._-_-_-_--::._-_-_--::._--::._-_-_-.:,_-_-_-_--::._-_--:: 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Number after 59 of Arc 1 Pre-entree due 60 Grade school course 34 Telephone marching orders 6 Canaveral 
attachment 63 After-hours 35 Hercules type money sources, 

10 Cheetah feature 
36 Popular dog's for short 14 Palate name 64 Shade providerappendage 

37 MGimme _r• 65 Scrawny

15 Mozart's "II mlo (start of an Iowa chicken parts tesoro,9 e.g. State cheer) 66 Musical symbol 16 Soothing 38 Deduces 67 Swamisucculent 40 de France 68 Sugary snack, 17 Spillane 41 Nada saydetective 42 Ohio tire city 19 Completely 43 Watering holes DOWNdemolish 44 Actor Mineo 1 Kind of 
20 Cover 
45 Tavern offering wrestling21 Quills 
46 Like craft shows 2Tel 23 Worked the field 
48 Darjeeling or 3 Book before 26 Enzyme suffix oolong John 27 "Don't get any 50 One who's been 4 Warned funny_!" initiated 5 Showy bloom 29 Abominable 52 Tums away 6 Oasis animal Snowman 55 Like pottery 7Take up weapons 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 8 Epitome of 
easiness  
SC ARES U  GER  9Obstaclesfor  Puule by ,'-f Crumley  
A L  L  barbers  30 Tum into leather  51 Former NBC  57 Actress Chase  
I s 10 Madras dresses -=+:e+.::,+T=-1 11 Flights ..::+.::t-=t-:1-:::-1'"!!' 1 12 Seep 13 Golfer's bagful ~-=t-:-t-:"'1-::i 18 Is under the weather 22 Nuisances  32 Race with a baton 33 Men in Liz's past 34 Trash holders 35 Sheik's bevy 38 Morocco's  newsman Frank 52 Not fully closed 53 November exhortation 54 J.F.K. arrivals 56 Cheese lovers?  58 "_ta vie" 61 Golden-ager's nest egg, for short 62 A photog saves it  
24 Rundown  capital  
shack, e.g. 25 Evil one  39 Barely make, with "out'  Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone:  
-,-+-,,+e-+-.,+-,....,,.+,-,,+-=-1  27 Ancient Aegean -land  43 Aerial assailant 46 Genesis brother  1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the  
S T E E A R  -=t-:-:+.,,+:+,,+::+,=+:::-1 28 Precision a T O O P s squads  47 Sublet 49 Dadaist Max  best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.  

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1999 
CELEBRfTIES BORN ON THIS payoff. 000 DAY: Ed Asner, Beverly D'Angelo, VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Plea­Petula Oark, Joseph Wapner sure trips will be in your best inter­
Happy Birthday: The way you do ests. You are likely to meet someone things this year will attract a lot of who will inspire you to go into busi­attention. You will have an uncanny ness for yourself. Social functions ability to work on projects that are will bring you in touch with new sure to bring you recognition. Your lovers.000 ability to relate to other people will LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Extrav­result in popularity. The more agance will be a problem. When it diverse you are, the better your comes to budgeting, you will need chance of reaching the life goals help. You'll prosper the most if you you've set for yourself. Your num­attend courses that will show you bers: 11, 14, 26, 29, 32, 44 the ins and outs of moneymaking. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 00000 Don't trust others with your personal SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You papers. You mustn't donate more will be quite uncertain regarding than you can really afford. You can your personal direction today. Don't work well with others, but you must­rely on what others tell you. Get to n't let anyone take advantage of your the bottom of issues that are confus­generosity. 0000 ing you by going directly to the 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You source. 00 will be sorry if you force your will on SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. others, You have to be patient and a 21): You can make good investments good listener regardless of how if you choose conservative methods. ridiculous the circumstances may be. Putting money into your property Emotional support will be the key. will pay you back in the long run. 00 Don't exceed your set budget. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your 0000 dedication and determination to suc­CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): ceed should start to pay off. Develop You have so much to offer those less your ideas and don't be afraid to let fortunate. Make suggestions to orga­others see what you are up to. You nizations involved in worthwhile will amaze those with less creative causes, You may find yourself mov­talent. 00000 ing into a leadership position. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): A Spend more time with children. You relative may be erratic, causing grief. can teach them valuable lessons by Talk to him or her reasonably. Ulti­setting a good example for them. You matums will backfire, causing de­will be able to finish creative projects pression and discord. You can avoid that you started way back when. disharmony if you throw yourself 000 into your work. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Relatives PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Prob­are probably not telling you the lems with institutions will be infuri­whole truth about a family situation. ating. Try to get some rest and relax­Spend time with the one you love. ation. Lowered vitality may result in 
Home-improvement projects will minor health problems. 000 
Birthday Baby: You were born with the ability to see things in broad terms. You are true to yourself and to those you care about. You have a warm and genuine nature that will be welcomed by others and bring you the accep­tance you are searching for throughout life. 
(Need advice? Check out Ilugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, 
eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
101999 Universal Press Syndicate 
--~----------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Obscrv,ff is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q f Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
0 Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name --------------------------­Address -------------------------­
City _______State ____ Zip______ 


;• 

No, No, Nanooks 
The Notre Dame hockey 
team earned its first sweep ofthe season with two wins over Alaska-Fairbanks.
PORTS 
page 21 

O
THE 
page 24 BSERVER Monday, November 15, I999 

WOMEN'S SOCCER 
.,. 

Second-half surge propels Irish to third round 
By KEVIN BER CHOU 
Spom Writer 
The Irish women's soccer team took a major step toward its ultimate goal of reaching the NCAA championships in San Jose, Calif., knock­ing off the Dayton Flyers 5-1 in second round tournament action on a cold, blustery day at Alumni Field. 
The Irish certainly weren't as sharp as they would have liked, but a second-half surge which saw them tally four goals in a matter of. six minutes was enough to ground the Flyers. 
Playing into the wind for the entire first half, Notre name struggled to mount a consistent attack. Jenny Streifer buried a cross from Anne Makinen just n minutes in, but that was the only chance of the first half the Irish were able to convert. 
"I just saw her hitting the seam, and I was able to got her the ball," said Makinen of the goal. 
Streifer's goal, the 69th of her Notre Dame career, !naves her just one tally away from joining Mia Hamm as the only players to record 70 goals and 70 assists in a career. 
Unable to convert several good chances, the Irish allowed the Flyers to hang in the game. Dayton goalie Stephanie Weisenfeld kept her side dose. stopping Irish forward Jenny Heft with a spectacular lunging save with 10 min­

·< 
utes left in the half. 
Inspired by the strength of their goalkeeper. tlie Flyers moved to use the wind blowing strong at their backs to their advantage. Senior forward Danny Gillespie broke away from the pack, taking a beautiful pass f'rom freshman Missy Gregg before sending a shot past a 

JOHN DAILY/The Observer 
see W. SOCCER/page 18 Irish forward Meotis Erickson is tripped up by a Flyer defender in Notre Dame's 4-1 win over Dayton Sunday. 
CROSS COUNTRY 

Shay places second as Notre Dame men earn NCAA bid 

JOHN DAILYrThe Observer The eighth-ranked men's cross country team placed second at the Great Lakes regional meet this weekend. 
SPORTS  vs. Sweden Today, 7 p.m.  
ATA  
GLANCE  at Ohio State Tuesday, 8:30 p.m.  


By I(ATHLEEN O'BRIEN Assistant Sports Editor 
The eighth-ranked Irish men's cross country team earned a spot in the NCAA Championships, placing second to Wisconsin at the Great Lakes Regional cross country meet with strong performances across the board. 
After finishing fourth behind the lead of Allison Klemmer,
.... the women will find out today if they receive an at-large team bid. "Our next goal is going to be in the top 10 at Nationals," !mad coach .Joe Piane said. "It'll be a challenge to be in the top 10 in the country." Junior Ryan Shay took second in the men's competition, cross­ing the finish line in a 10-K time of 30:08.10. His time broke the previous course record of 30:20, but was over­shadowed by ihe fact that 
• ~ . 

"It'll be a challenge to be one ofthe top 10 programs in the country." 
Joe Piane Notre Dame head coach 
Wisconsin senior John Schoenfelder won the race in a time of 30:07.00 to ink his name in the record books . 
"f was looking for a victory," Shay said. "But I didn't want this to be my best race of the season. I wanted to save some­thing for Nationals." 
Sixth-ranked Wisconsin beat Notre Dame in team competi­tion by scoring 51 points to Notre Dame's 68. 
"They're definitely beatable," Shay said. "All that it takes for us to beat them is for us to run solid -at or above tho level we have heen running, and for them to have someone in their 
NCM Third Round vs. Stanford Friday, 7:30 p.m. 
Volleyball Big East Tornament Semifinals Saturday, 12 p.m. 
top five not run as well as nor­mal." 
Notre Dame did beat No. 7 Michigan, a team which beat Notre Dame earlier in the sea­son at the adidas/Notre Dame Invitational. Michigan scored 79 points en route to a third­place finish. 
Five runners earned All-Great Lakes honors for the Irish by placing in the top 25. In addi­tion to Shay, sophomore Luke Watson was 12th, followed by the pack of seniors Ryan Maxwell and Sean McManus and sophomore Marc Striowski. who were within 13 seconds of' one another. 
"We ran well as a whole," Watson said. "I thought the key to our performance was our third through firth runners. They really stepped it up. They just really came through for us when we needed them to," 
Seniors John Dudley and Mike Griewe rounded out the 
see X-COUNTRY/page 22 
vs, Boston College ,-..:~ Saturday, 2:30 p.rn. 
• Women's Swimming ac Minnesota Invitational Friday-Sunday 



