
Thou art contemporary 
Tragedy in Taiwan 
Scene prel!iews Friday's "CritiquP ofthe 
A 7.6 earthquake ripped through Taiwan 


Wednesday
Museum in Contemporary Art." a symposium 
Tuesday. killing more than I ,700 people. 
that will draw art representatirlesfrom 
page 5 
SEPTEMBER 22,
MIT to the Smithsonian. 
1999
page 10 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIII NO. 22 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
SECURITY 


Off-campus weekend assaults heighten concerns 
unable to give a discription

By BILL UNIOWSKI 
of the suspect.

A>si,ram New, Ediror 
Students who walk alone at night or in small groupsTwo Notre Dame students 
are vulnerable, "especially if 
wero assulted off 1'.ampus in they've been drinking them­
scparatu incidonls Friday selves," said Rakow. He 
nighl. according to RAX stressed students shouId be Hakow. director of security aware of their surroundingspolice at tlw University. 
and walk in well-lighted

Thn first incident. al 12:45 
areas. 

a.m .. occurred while an on­
"South Bend is a city area, 

campus student was walking 
and you have to treat it that nastbound on Vaness Street, 

way," said Rakow. "We 

near Turtle Creek 
encourage students to take Apartments. An unknown 

cabs or get rides with malo appnared out of the 

friends." 

bushes and asked tlrn stu­Rakow suggests that atti­
denl for his wallet and 
tude changes could help stu­

walch. force was used. 
dents avoid these incidences. 

The assailant took the The suspect was described "Students should think 
money and watch, then as a black male. approximate­about what could happen," he returnnd the wallet at the ly 5-foot-10 and 225 pounds. 
said, "instead of what could rnqucst of' the student. No The second incident, later never happen." 


MIKE VANEGAS/THE OBSERVER 
face at the corner of Frances Avenue and Madison Street, and his wallet was taken. 
The student walked home and called police. He was 

Martin: Women need more opportunity 
By TIM LOGAN News E<l,ror 
D1\spite considerable progress over 
the past fow dr.cadr.s, corporate 
Anwrica has not fully succeeded in 
bmakin!{ llm glass ceiling for busi­
n1'ss womlrn, for1111)r Labor 
Secrelary I.ynn Martin said in a lec­
tun• Ttmsday. 
Tilt' dmllm1g£1s lacing women who 
aW\mpt to balanc11 work and family 
arisf' from long-standing social rolRs 
and a fundamental dil'ference 
bnlw1ien the sexes. Martin said. 
"Wf\ talk about family valuRs all 
the time, hut what do we really 
mean about it''" she asked. "We're 
talking about subtle things at work." 
Among thnsn am the attitudes 11x1wutives takP wht\11 n1cruiting and "promoting young men as compared to young women. Slw madn the point that a hiring ollicer is more likely to birn a man becausn he will not twcome prngnanl. and as a result will be morP llexible and miss less time from wnrk. 
Marlin also pointed out that wonrnn tnnd to be loss educated in technology and sciPncc, two fields that. arn loading the current econom­ic surgP, and that this is hurting wompn 's employment prospects. · 
"Thorn's still the idea that I, woman, do not have as much value," she said. 
Still, she said, the 1Ji!{g($l differ­ence is attitudinal. Martin contended that, on average, a woman takes considerablv more time off after childbirth lhan a man does, and feels morn guilty about rnturning to work. The maternal expectations placed on them impinge upon their responsibil­ilies at wnrk, and thev lose their plac1i in the corporate hierarchy. 
"We don't know how to move fam­ily into this whole [corporate I role," she said. "Not everybody can have it all." 
Martin proposed a system in which women are given several years off to care for young children and then are retrained at an accelerated pace. This, she said, would enable them to return to the same company, in the same job, several years later, when some of tho men who worked during her leave are ready to step down and take less responsibility. 

"H's an expensive management problem," she said. "But the compa­nies that are doing it are seeing higher retention among men and women." 
She also discussed the problems facing minorities in the workplace. 
see MARTIN/page 4 


Prof: Violence must end for peace in N. Ireland 
By MATT BUNDA 
News Writer 
Halting the violence and bringing all sides of the dis­pute -including paramilitary guerilla factions -to the table is the first step in beginning the peace process in Northern Ireland, according to professor John Darby. 
Darby, a visiting professor and expert on Northern Ireland, its current conllict and peace process, gave a lecture Tuesday discussing the effects of conflicts and violence on peace processes. 
Beginning his lecture with a metaphorical description for peace processes, Darby described them as "a moun­tain range ... envision a number of climbers who know that all previous expeditions have failed. They have 119 maps. and they have been fighting among themselves and disagreeing readily." 
The first obstacle, he pointed out, is stopping the vio­lence and establishing a cease-fire. Succeeding in this step and attempting tn continue the process thereafter dominated much of the lecture. 
Many of the observations he shared during the lec­ture were examples cited from one his recent books, a study of peace processes in the past decade in South Africa, Northern Ireland, Sri Lanka, Israel and several other countries. While touching on several areas of the peace process including negotiations, the economy and external influence, his primary focus was violence and paramilitary groups like the IRA. 
Paraphrasing a colleague, Darby said that during the peace process, "tension and violence tend to rise when compromise is in the air." 
He said the cease-fire and negotiations end the need for paramilitary groups, but their structures and per­sonnel stay in place and quickly return to "what they do best," which is violent protest through beatings, murder and theft. 
Of the most recent difficulties in the Northern Ireland situation, Darby said that disarmament of the several factions is important, as is an attempt to bring guerilla fighters like the IRA back into the community, possibly as enforcement officials. 
He said that the inclusion of former terrorists vital to the process because this action tends to temper the vio­lence of paramilitary groups that attempt to spoil the proceedings. 


page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, September 22, 1999 
INSIDE COLUMN THIS WEEK IN SOUTH BEND 

Men really are from Mars 
You would think that after taking several courses in gender studies I would have a better understanding of the differences between men and women than l do. You would think that after growing up with two brothers I would have the inside track on what guys are really like. And you would think that after two serious long-distance rela­tionships I would begin to grasp the disparity between the way men and women understand one another. 
But I don't. 


Colleen
It's not that the gender 

Gaughen
studies courses failed to 
teach me; I aced them all. 

It's not that my brothers Viewpointfailed to enlighten their kid 
editor
sister on the realm of male idiosyncrasies: we spent hours playing sports and building forts in the garage. And it's not that my long-distance relationships failed to encour• age conversation; my phone bills definitely prove otherwise. 
Women and men are simply vastly different. 
The famous (or infamous) sociological study by John Gray, "Men are from Mars, Women are from Venus," takes a wonderful look at the inevitable difficulties men and women face in their relationships because of their inherent differences, and it offers concrete examples of how to bridge the astronomical gap that sepa• rates the sexes. 
But, it left out a few important points. 
It doesn't tell you that men are born equipped with an emotional safety valve that they can turn on and off at their will. It doesn't tell you that they can't grasp the concept of transcending emotions across space and time. It doesn't tell you that they would rather sulk with their buddies over a beer than actually admit their fears to a woman. 
On the other hand, it doesn't tell you that women are born equipped with overactive tear ducts that they cannot turn on and off their will. It doesn't tell you that they can't grasp the concept of giving up or letting go just because of space and time. lt doesn't tell you that they would rather sulk with their girlfriends with chocolate than actually trying to see things from his perspective. 
ln truth, really seeing the other perspective is impossible. We can say that we see it, but we really don't. There is no way to get inside another person's head. heart or experiences ­no matter how much we read or overanalyze. We can come close, we can taste a hint of com­prehension, but we never truly get there. 
ls all then lost? No way. 

Not all men and women fit my highly gener• alized descriptions, and those that do still have the great comforts of beer and chocolate. But we also have something even better -the opportunity to step back and take a long, hard look at ourselves. We may not be able to get truly inside someone else, but we can get truly inside ourselves and see that what we do and say affects those· that matter the most in ways we never even considered. 
The idea of building a spaceship and flying back to our planetary origins is always an option, but I'd rather just accept that women are women, men are men and that that elusive compromise is out there, waiting somewhere in the middle. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

Nem. Scene Bill Uniowski Mike Vanegas Kate Steer Graphics 
Man Bunda Amy Crownover Sports Lab Tech Brian Kessler 
Joe Stark 
Viewpoint 
Brian Hobbins 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-401)0) i, published Monday ,hrough Friday except during exam and vac.rion pe.iods. The Observer is a member of chc As,ociarcd Press. AU reproduction righis ar, r,s,:rwd. 
Wednesday  Thursday  Friday  Saturday  
. Vietnam Veterans  . The Murasaki Duo:  . Haunted Scream Park:  . Haunted Scream Park:  
Memorial Moving Wall:  Pianist-cellist duo, Main  Mayflower Rd., Niles,  Mayflower Rd., Niles,  
Berrien County Youth Fair  Auditorium, IUSB, 8 p.m.  7 p.m. to 10 p.m.  7 p.m. to 10 p.m.  
Grounds, 24 hours.  . Frank Lloyd Wright  . Annie Get Your Gun:  . Annie Get Your Gun:  
. Annie Get Your Gun:  Exhibit: John G. Blank  Amish Acres, Nappanee,  Amish Acres, Nappanee,  
Amish Acres. Nappanee,  Center for the Arts.  8p.m.  8 p.m.  
8p.m.  Michigan City, through  
October 24.  

Compiled from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Tuition hike walkout draws hundreds at UW 
MADlSON, Wis. "They have a lot ofmoney up Amelia Rideau said. Hundreds of University of Students aLthe rally also advocat­
there in the Capitol, but they

Wisconsin-Madison students walked ed using some of Wisconsin's budget out of their classes onto Library decided to tax you first." surplus to fund the UW System. Mall Wednesday afternoon and con­"They have a lot of money up tinued walking until they reached there in the Capitol right now," ASM
Tshaka Barrows

the Capitol. representative Tshaka Barrows told
ASM representative

The Associated Students of students at the rally. "But they Madison and other groups had decided to tax you first." worked for three days to encourage aged the students attending the During the rally, students were UW students to walk out of their -rally to yell louder so that the legis• encouraged to let the State classes at 12:30 p.m. and join them lators working on the budget would Legislature know how they felt by on Library Mall for a rally protest­be able to hear them. writing letters. Those letters were ing the Board of Regents' 9.6 per­"The legislature must listen to our later turned over to state Senate cent tuition increase for undergrad• voices and totally fund this universi· Majority Leader Chuck Chvala, D­uate residents and 12. 7 percent ty," Klaus said. "It echoes up State Madison, who has said he will con­increase for nonresidents. Street. They will hear it up in that tinue to fight for a tuition freeze. 
"We're here as a coalition of stu· Capitol building." After rallying in Library Mall, stu• dents saying that a 9.6 percent Students at the rally demanded dents carrying signs and chanting tuition hike is unacceptable," ASM the legislature enact a tuition slogans marched into the Capitol to representative Becky Wasserman freeze. bring their demands of a tuition said at the rally. "We want a tuition freeze and it freeze and full funding of the UW 
ASM Chair Adam Klaus encour• can happen," ASM Vice Chair System directly to the legislators. 
UT-Austin ready for Tower opening 
AUSTIN, Texas 

The Observation Deck was first closed in 1966 after Charles Whitman's shooting spree which killed 14 peo­ple. The deck reopened after several weeks but closed again in 1975 after several suicides. It has remained closed ever since. A student-driven proposal prompted UT President Larry Faulkner to recommend to the UT System Board of Regents to reopen the Observation Deck last year. The recommendation was approved in November 1998. Since approval of the reopening, UT officials have been making preparations for public access to the deck, including a stainless steel fence enclosing the deck and an elevator from the 27th floor to carry visitors unable to climb the stairs. Steve Kraal, associate director of business services, said general University funds covered the cost of the lattice and ele• vator, which cost $200,000 and $400,000, respectively. To defray further costs -like the hiring of' police offi• cers and tour guides -visitors must purchase a $3 ticket at the Texas Union for the tour. Ticket revenue will cover only a portion of the yearly operating costs, which Faulkner estimated at more than $100,000. 
Duke fights access to research 
DURHAM, N.C. 
Universities usually champion openness and access to information, but Duke and other research institu­tions have spent the last few months fighting increased public access to data produced in federally funded research. The debate stems from a provision that Sen. Richard Shelby, R-Ala. slipped into an appropriations bill last year, mandating that all data from federally funded research be open to public inspection through the Freedom of Information Act. The universities ­and their allies in Congress -reacted harshly, claim­ing that the law could violate the confidentiality of research subjects and have a chilling effect on busi­ness-~cademic .collaborations. "In some ways, this is a no-brainer. This [law] is simply bad public policy," said John Burness, the University's senior vice president for public affairs and government relations, who along with President Nan Keohane has lobbied for a repeal or narrowing of the so-called Shelby amendment. And it seems like they have partially succeeded, as regula­tions proposed by the Office of Management and Budget have limited the law's scope. 

LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
00s 

WednJsday Thurs~ay Friday1 
FRONTS: 


Satur~ay ...-.-.......... ....-.,..
0 1999 Accuweather1 Inc. COLD WARM S'TATIONAR'I PrN•w.: 
® © . ~ C}] ~ E'2J rlill () ¾i. eff~ 
ti\gh Low Shower• Rain T--atorm• Flurrlea Snow Ice Sunny Pi, Cloudy Cloudy


·::Sun.day ,::it .. 
Via Aa(J(;/Btad Pras& 

0•·.,.....~•"",-...,_~/'",'\.:~/,.), 
r 
Atlanta 71 54 Las Vegas 90 72 Portland 83 51 

Baltimore 67 50 Memphis 74 55 Sacramento 74 56 ~,~,~~~~ (f ~ ~ Boston 63 58 Milwaukee 73 52 St. Louis 72 58 
Showers T-storms Ram Flumes Snow /cs Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Chicago 71 51 New York 65 51 Tampa 84 67 Via: Associated Pruss GraphicsNet Houston 85 49 Philadelphia 65 53 Wash DC 65 49 
Wednesday, September 22, 1999 The Observer . NEWS page 3 


Cain: McDonald's diversity successful 
By KATE WALTER 
New~ Writer 
l>iv!lrsity is an important and n1H.:essary componnnt in any business today, according lo Diann Cain. director or McDonald's Diversity lnitiatiwi Group at TtH•sclay's lecturl' held in tlw Collegn of Busirrnss Administration. 
"To b11 succnssrul, you havH to take tlw divnrsn mixture or workers that you've got and makn Lhcm work," said Cain, a McDonald's PmployPH for moro than 15 y11ars. 
Tim mission of the Diversity 'rnitialiv<' (;rnup is to provide valuablo lc!adership and rnsourcus. onabling the McDonald's system lo inLPgralP stratngic div11rsity goals tl1at impact thn busirwss in a positivti way. The group Sl'rvcs as tho 
di\'orsily conscience for the cor­be greater than in areas with a poration and aims tu monitor lower African American popula­diversity and provide education tion. and cmploy-In the 15 mrnt. years that Cain 
According to 'To be successful, you has worked for 
McDonald's,
Cain, diversity have to take the diverse 
is defined as she has 
an environ­mixlure ofworker:, that not.iced an ment in which you've got and make increas.e in the differences are level of diversi­
them work."
rocogniznd. ty at the understood McDonald's and valued. Diane Cain home office in She said that Illinois. She
McDonald's director of 
as a t;orµora­said that the
diversity initiative
t i O 11 levels of
, 
McDonald's attomµts to follow tllnse guidc­linns f'or diversity by mirroring the community in which each franchise is located. for exam­p!t\ in largely African American communities, the numbPr or African-American employees will 
University of Notre Dame fnternational Study Programs 

' ~~.~~~JY. ;:.--. 
~a.;,. 
,!,;•.• 



Nagoya,Japan 
INFORMATION MEETING With Professor Setsuko Shiga 
Thursday September 23, 1999 
5:00 P.M. 206 O'Shaughnessy 
Application Deadline December 1,-1999 
LOCKHEED MARTIN 

Challenging Career Oppo unities in Our Many Product Lines for CS/ EE/ ME/ AE/ Physics/ Math/ Business Majors 
PIZZA AND REFRESHMENTS WILL BE PROVIDED 
visit us at www.lmco.com 
minority groups, including · African Americans, llisfrnnics. Asians and Native Amflricans. have risen since slw first became employed by the corporation. 
McDonald's also looks to incor­porate the goals of diversity into their menus. 
"We're a very people-sensitive corporation, and we try to understand and respect our cus­tomer's likes and dislikes," she said. 
Cain also said that as an addi­tional step toward accommoda­tion or customers' varying needs, McDonald's has bel:orne much more accepting of "grill orders" in n~cent years, meaning that burgers and other menu items can be made to order. Adapting to regional differences, different menu items arc offered exclu­sively in some areas. 
Looking to the future, Cain said that the concept of being people-sensitive could lead to a more drastic change in Md)onald's menu. 
"If today's youth grow up to demand more healthy food, we'll respond willingly to that demand," Cain said. "Hight now though. people still seem to want a burger and fries." 

PRESIDENTIAL RACE 


Bradley, Gore battle 

for nomination 
Associated Press 
REDFOHD. Mass. 
Responding to recent polls suggesting he could face tight primary races w i t h 
former N e w Jersey S e n . 8 i I I Bradley i 11 neigh-

b O r i n g Bradley N e w Hamp­shire and New York, Vice President Al Gore said Tuesday he was "looking forward to the battle." "I'm going to fight for every vote," Gore said as he arrived hnre to attend a fund-raiser. Bradley, making stops Tuesday in Massachusetts and New Hampshire, downplayed the polls. "I had no expectations about when things would move or when they wouldn't," he said. "Someone came up to me and said, 'We have momentum.' I said. 'No we don't, we have a little traction."' Gore was greeted at Hanscom Air Force Base here by a crowd of more than 200 that included servicemen and their fam­ilies. He had a dinner at a restaurant in Newton and 
then went to a couple of private residences in Weston for fund-raisers. 
At the home of Paul Eger-man, Gore met wiht 20 to 30 executives of 
high­

t e c h ­nology compa­
nies in t h Boston are a. At the home 
Gore  of busi­ 
n es s ­ 
man  Steve  Belkin,  he  

raised about $250,000, Belkin said. 
"Will we continue to move forward or will we take a right-wing U-turn .back to the policy that failed miserably'?" he said. 
Bradley, meanwhile, fielded questions for about an hour at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 
"The issue that's closest to my heart is racial unity, quite frankly," he told the students. promising to use the president's "bully pul­pit" to speak out about it. 
"You try to educate white Americans about some­thing I call 'white skin privilege' that most haven't thought of," he said. 
But he said the most pressing issue is "continu­ing the economic prosperi­ty and having it more broadly shared." 

~
---··· 

"Writing a Good · Personal Statement for Law School Applications" 

I 

....... --......,.,-~-~---_________________,.......____________ 
page 4 The Observer .NEWS Wednesday, September 22, 1999 
FDA approves new antibiotic for resistant bacteria 
Assodated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Doctors wun a crucial. new weapon Tuesday to saYo patients from the growing threat of drug-resistant bacte­ria: The government approved Synerrid. thf' first altf'rnative in 30 years to the current antibiotic of last resort. 
SvnPrcid comes at a critical time, as more and more germs develop resbtam:e to that "sil· ver bnlkt" antibiotic, van­comycin, leaving doctors mere­ly to watch in Llespair as patients die from once-treat­able infections. 
"For those of us who treat thP most sick patients, in hos­pitals where they do a lot of major surgery ... having anoth­er option is very important," said Or. George Eliopoulos of Beth Israel Deaconness Hospital in Boston. 
Rut Synerdd is not a magic bullet. The Food and Drug Administration approved its use only in crrtain infertions ­albeit ones that strike hun-
Martin 
continued from page 1 
These stem from educational dis­parities and a certain narrow­mindedness that is rarely inten­tional but is harmful nonetheless, Martin said. 
She warned against always applying the same solutions to the problems of different groups, though. 
"Gender and race are not total· ly congruent, but gender issues can cross racial lines, and men and women are not the same," she said. 
The former labor secreta,ry emphasized that attention to these issues does more than com­bat discrimination, but also makes good sense for companies. 
"This is not just about integrity, this is a business in1perative," she said. "If we're going to talk about merit, we have to mean it. If we talk about integrity there has to be it." 
Martin discussed the develop· ment of women's education dur· ing the past 50 years. In the early · 1 960s, she said, colleges began drcds of thousands of patients In studies of morn than 2,000 -because it works we11 patients, intravenous Synercid against some germs but not effectively quelled 52 percent others. of infections. 

And doctors should not use Synercid is most important in Sy11ercid when other antibi.otit:s fighting a fearsome germ will do, because overuse will spread to thousands of hospi · simply hasten bacteria's talized patients called "van· inevitable comy~in­development rosistant 
of resistance "The drug should be used Enterococcus 
against this faecium,"
judiciously. We'd like 
new tlrug, the infamous fur fDA warned. to protect itJor as long causing "The drug lethal infec­
as possible"
should be tions in the used judi-abdomen, ciously," Sandra Kweder urinary stressed FDA FDA antibiotics chief tract, post· 
antibiotics chief Dr. Sandra KwedPr. "For many patients it will be a drug of last resor.t, and we'd like to protect it for as long as possible." 
Some infectious disease experts predicted Synercid's cost -at $85 per intravenous vial, over four times more expensive than vancomycin ­will persuade doctors to save it for thf' sickest patients. 
opening their doors to women in much greater numbers, although not necessarily to prepare them for the business world. 
"It was done specifically and completely because the country thought that women would be better ½ives and mothers if they had an education," Martin said. While this worked for a time, according to Martin, it led women 
· in the 1970s to challenge the assumptions that they should go from the classroom to the home. She was one of the college-edu­cated women who did not intepd to enter the workforce. "My goal in college was never to work again," she said. "But once you're educated, you can never be caged again." Many other women found themselves coming to that real­ization in the 1970s, she said, and began entering the corporate world. This brought the begin­nings of the glass ceiling problem women in business have faced ever since. Martin served as secretary of labor from 1991 until 1993, under President George Bush. During her tenure, she focused on pension portability and the advancement of women in the 
surgical 
wounds and 

even heart valves. 
In one study of 330 patients infected with that supergerm. 90 percent had their infection clear up within 72 hours of starting treatment with Synercid, thP FDA said. 
The first super-strength ente­rococcal infection appeared in 1989, but the problem grew fast that in the first six months 
workplace. 
Martin represented Illinois' 16th District in Congress from 1981 until 1991. While in Washington she was elected vice chairperson of the House Republican Conference. Martin currently teaches at the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University and chairs Deloitte & Touche's Council on the Advancement of Women. 
The talk, "Managing a New American Workforce," was the first in this year's Cardinal O'Hara Lecture Series, sponsored by Notre Dame's Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business. It was also supported by Cargill, Inc. 
of this year, 18 percent of all enterococcal bloodstream infections were vancomycin· resistant, affecting thousanrls of people, said Dr. Ronald Jones of the University of Iowa, which tracks drug rnsistance. 
The FDA also approved Synercid to treat complicated skin infections caused by staph or strep bacteria, opening its use potentially to hundreds of thousands more patients. 
Orug resistance is a growing problem for those infections, too. Once thought to spread only in hospitals and nursing homes, the government last month announced the chilling discovery that four previously healthy children had died from drug-resistant slaph, and scores of othor nonhospitalized people have been sickened. 
llospitals must test patients to be sum which kind of infoc­tion they have before prescrib­ing Synercid, the FDA warned. 
For example, Synercid is effective against the deadliest type of enterococcal germs, called E. far.cium, but doesn't work against a more common but less fatal enterocuccal infoction -and special lab tests are the only way to identify the germ. Enterococcal germs spread easily in hospitals, able to live for days on bedrails, doorknobs. even stethoscopr.s. 
When antibiotics hit the mar­ket in the 1950s, rloctors jubi­1antly predicted an end to infectious diseases. By the 1980s, half of all rlrug compa­nies had stopped developing antibiotics, believing the battle1 won. 
But the bugs fought back, and today many bacteria are impervious to medicine. Synercid is the first in a new class of antibiotics called strep­togramins, and fights bacteria by dealing them a onA•two punch. 
l NI\ I RSI I\' m ~<II RI ll \~II 
1lllf llurl~\ ll1ul,IU1j! ~,,11,• IIJm,· 1:,.. Jh\'h 111'1 
I i.'l"H•"I '\~_,;; 
IJ, 1.'l'l\(lll -i"II 






JERUSALEM 

INFORMATION MEETING 
With Fr. David Burrell, C.S.C. Mr. Stephen Steinbeiser 11 
WEDNESDAY SEPTEMBER 22. I 999 
4:45 P.M. -5:45 P.M. 119 DEBARTOLO 
APPUCATIOi\ DFADl l:\E OCTOBERi....i9-2.2 


Graduating college seniors are invited to apply for the 27th annual Pulliam Journalism Fellowships. We will grant 10-week summer internships to 20 journalism or liberal arts majors in the August 1999-June 2000 graduating 
classes. 
Previous internship or part-time experience at a newspaper is desired, or other demonstration of writing and reporting ability. Those who go through the Fellowships often find new professional opportunities opening up at other newspapers during and after the program. Winners will receive a $5,500 stipend and will work at either The Indianapolis Star or The Arizona Republic. Opportunities for online training are available, along with reporting experience at our major metropolitan daily newspapers. 
Early-admissions application postmark deadline is Nov. 15, 1999. By Dec. 15, 1999, up to five early-admissions winners will be notified. All other entries must be postmarked by March 1, 2000, and will be consid­ered with remaining early-admissions applicants. Successful applicants will be notified on or before April 1, 2000, and will be asked to respond immediately w.ith a letter of intent, at which time one-third of the cash grant will be mailed to the Fellow. 
To request an application packet, visit our Web site, e-mail us or write: 

Russell B. Pulliam 
Pulliam Fellowships Director 
Indianapolis Newspapers 

\Yeh ,1k" I\\\\\ '1a1 Ile'\, ,.com;pjl P.O. Box 145 [-111,111: pul11,m1(nst.1rne\1s,co111 
Indianapolis, IN 46206-0145 

·~i!TE/ITIONJ
··~:::•· :K 
HOUSEKEEPIN.Q.6' CUSTOD.IU PERSONNEL 

RSVP @,:J:800-678-2562 by Se;li!mber 23 
orldNation 

Wednesday, Seprembcr 22, 1999 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Former KGB and Stasi Cold War spies revealed 
LONDOI\J 
,\ dulch ol' acadmnics, an anti-nuclear cam­paigner. a few old communists whose faith not cv(rn tlin Berlin Wall's collapse could shako: all an' in Britain ·s newly revealed col­l1ic1ion of' Cold War spies. TlrnsP agents ­idc•nlilicid in a rww book based on documents stol.-n from the K(;B and tlw Stasi, the com­munist East Cnnnany spy agt>ncy -appear to lw saf'I' f'rom tlrn rm;ounding ca.lls for their prosc•r11tion. Comparnd to famed traitors such as Kim Philby and Cuy Burgnss, thn Ca111hriclg11-nduealt>d spies who gavn tlw KrPrnlin top British s1•crnts, most or tlrnm don't S<'!'m to havr. matternd much. 
Forbes searches for support among Buchanan voters 
01\KLANO. Calif. 
c;op pr1•sidnntial randidatl' Stove Forbes opPlll'd a liv1•-day bus tour T111~sday scouring tlw nation's most populous slate for ronscrva­tiws who liack Pat Burhanan but might aban­don him if' lw bolts to tl11• Heform Party. "I think tlwy'r1• going lo likP what they hear," Forlws·said in an inl1!rvi1\w on the bus. Buchanan is consid!!l'ing defocling to tlrn H1d'orm Party. but his campaign manager, Jay TownsPnd. has said lw would not decide until next month. Forlws and aides spok1! Tuesday as if' Bu('hanan had alreadv left tlrn lkpubliran Party. Buchanan's possible depar­tt1n• "undPrscores that this party doesn't win without a llll!Ssagn. and WP arn the campaign that has that messagP," Forbt!S said. 
Internet permits Indian families to communicate 
NEW DEi.iii 
Vilko P-mail will 0µ1•11 up India's lnternPt rnvolution rwxt nwnLl1 lo thousands of poor, illilPratn -and awnstruck -villagers who havo II ov1• r semi a computer. On Oct. 2, the birthday of Indian independence leader l\lohandas Candhi. vid1io (•-mail booths will be inaugurall!d in Pight towns in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar -two of India's poornst and most populous slates. /\ conglomerate of Indian computnr software makers announced the program Tuesday. Thn booths, complete with vid!'o cameras, will be wired up with 20 simi­lar lmoths hunclrnds ol' miles away in Bombay, India's financial hub, said Dewang Mehta, who !wads tlw National Association of Softwarn and Sm·vice Companies. It will cost I 5 nl(WllS -or J5 cents -to send or receive a LIHPti-minutn urnssage, including a video imagP and voicn, through an !Hnai I account. For villagers, it may takP half a day to earn ·15 ruplins. But Mehta !'eels many would pay it for thn <·.ha11c(i to hnar and Sl\P a lovl!d one once in a whilli dwaply. 

S&P 500: Composite 
1307.58 Volume:

10,598.47 
567,900,000
-27.95 
VOLUME LEADERS 

CAMINO'  TIC:IQ  \  CMIN121  t CIAN91  JftICI  
UPLr CONPUHJ\  AUL  -l'l,U  -51.9115  69 .,45  
COIUEL, COIIP  CORL  .. ;u,54  . l..5625  8. 50  
MICROSOFT COII.P  KSFT­ -J. Ol  •l.H,H  9'.64  
AMICJ\tCA OllfLimt  AOL  •l. 50  +l.Oti75  H.811  
DllLI• CONl'U'l'li~ urr&L c~P  D&U, ttrrc  -4.86 -:.Lt5  -l, 31'50 _, .06.Z5  f.6, 50 s:t.OQ  
MC1 WOllLDCOM lN 1'.'.'ISCO SYS'l'!!NIJ &mil MlC'aOSYl!Tlr.NIB  WCOM csco..,.,,  + I), fi9 -2. 9l -a. 1:.i  +0.5600 -l.0675 -:i:.ooas  aa, 06 11.ll 9:i, 51  
OJU\.CL& COI\P  OR.CL  -l, l9  -0 .t5250  H,50  

TAIWAN 

AFP Photo 

Two Taiwanese men stand on the rubble of their now-destroyed home. Measuring 7 .6 on the Richter scale, Monday's earthquake caused similar scenes of destruction around the Taipei area. Seismologists hope to gain new insight into the fault zones in India. 
Quake gives seismic insight 
Associated Press 
Taiwan is a seismically jittery place, and rnsearchers said the earthquake that rocked the island early Tuesday is not related to the recent ones in Greece and Turkny. 
Taiwan, which sits on the edge of two plates on thP Earth's crust, the Eurasian and the Philippine plates. gets shaken by dozens of quakes each year. 
Most are centered in the Pacific Ocean east of the island and rarely cause damage. The magnitude 7.6 quake-that hit Taiwan early Tuesday was very unusual because 
it occurred beneath the island's 
central mountains. 
The quake killed more than 1,700 · 

people. It was Taiwan's worst since 
a 7.4 magnitude temblor hit the 
island in 1935, killing 3,276 people. 
In 1986, a magnitude 7.8 quake off 
Taiwan's east coast killed 15. 

This quake was centered about · 120 miles south of the capital, 
Taipei, in the Changyung 
Mountains. 
The mountains, which soar as 

high as 13,000 feet, are riddled with 
faults, but not much is known about 
their instability because the area is 
not as seismically active as the fault 
zone off the island's east coast. 
Several geologists and engineers from the United States were prepar­ing to fly to Taiwan for a closer look at the physical changes that may have occurred to the island, as well as the damage to buildings and roadways. 
"This earthquake is the only major one to occur in 40 years with­in this mountain range," said seis­mologist Jeff Barker of the State University of New York at Binghamton. 
"This could be the piecP of infor­mation to explain what's happening geologically in Taiwan." 

UNITED NATIONS 
Russia resists weapons inspections 
A~sociated Press 
NEW YORK 
Russia's opposition is blocking a U.S. plan to resume weapons inspections in Iraq, the Clinton administration said Tuesday amid strenuous lobbying efforts by Secretary of State Madeleine Albright. 
The U.N. Security Council is considering a British-Dutch resolution to send inspectors back to Iraq after a nine-month lapse to search for nuclear, chemical and bio­logical weapons ingredi­ents. 
Any one of the five per­m ancn t members of the Security Council ~ Britain, China. France, Russia and the L'nited States -can veto the resolution. Among the live, Russia, China and France arc holding out. 
France was described as moving in the U.S. direc­tion, but Prime Minister Lionel Jospin said negotia­tions were at an impasse, and British Foreign Secretary Robin Cook told reporters Tuesday night: "We are not there yet." 
"It doesn't help to specu­late," Cook said. And Albright, meeting with the British minister, said, ''We are working very hard to regain tho consensus" the council once had on send­ing U.N. inspectors in search of weapons materi­al in Iraq. 
She declined to com­ment on reports that the French were circulating a bland statement as a sub­stitute for a tough resolu­tion. 
Albright encountered stiff resistance in moro than two hours of talks Monday night with Russian Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov, who was in New York to attend a special session of the U.N. c.;encral Assembly, 
On Tuesday, slrn madP. a pitch for renewed inspec­tions in Iraq in a breakfast with representatives of the 10 non-permanent mem­bers of tho Security Council. Among them, only Malaysia is holding out. 
BERMUDA 

Study examines eating habits 
·-r---­
page 6 The Observer . NEWS Wednesday, September 22, 1999 
Hurricane Gert 
. Californians eat­ing more fast food, 
working out less
washes away beach 

Associated Pres. 
HAMILTON 
With punishing waves 10 feet high, Hurricane Gert smasher! the walls off seaside cottages Tuesday and washed away three miles 
of Bermuda's Gert 
prime beach, including the . 110 mph famed Pink 
winds
Beach. There were . 11,000 people 
no reports of 
without power
injuries, even 
. 5 loot surges
from tourists in a house that had two rooms torn away in exclusive Tucker's Town. 
"Part of the house jusl fell away in the early morning. J did1{'t even hear· when it fell away," said Mike Muir,o~ ~os Angeles, who was v1s1t111g Bermuda with family and friends. 
Gert's outer 140 miles from. its center. 

Storm surges of up to 5 feet were expected to diminish ~s the storm weakens further-111 the next 24 hours and is expected to turn north-north­east, the hurricane center said. 
Residents reported severe damage along the south shore, which was nearest to the storm, including one of Bermuda's oldest attractions. the Natural Arches, formed by caves and pillars that suffered structural damage from Hurricane Emily in 1987 and Hurricane Felix in 1995. 
"The beaches have been dev­astated," said Jami McKenna, a manager of the Marriott Castle Harbor hotfll near Pink Reach, which gets its color from finely crushed seashells. "Our beach this morning, we had none. The water was all the way up to our restaurant, the concrete steps had been totally washed away." 
She said about three miles of 
prime beach 
was blasted 
Associated Pre,s 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. 

Californians are spending more time eating fast food and less time working out -and more of them are overweight or suffering from diabetes as a result. 
Nearly half of California adults who ate out on an aver­age day in 1997 chose a fast­food restaurant, up from 33 percent in 1989, according to a study released Tuesday by the state Department of Health Services. 
The study also found that 20 percent of those a~k:d rep~rt­Pd no physiral activity durm_g their leisure time. in the previ­ous month. 
Meanwhile, the overweight rate among adults rose from 17.8 percent in 1984 to 'l.6.7 percent in 19%, while the di~­betes rate jumped from 4.3 percent to 5.5 percent. 
And the numbers could gel worse. Under newly revised 
edge whipped 

health standards, nearly half
"The beaches have been awav, from 
the island 

the state's adults could be con­
Castie Harbor
devastated. Our beach
with gusts up 

sidered overweight in future
down to John 
years. .
to 110 mph, this morning, we had Smith's Bay. 
according to 

Poor eating habits and physi­
At the
none.
meteorologist 

cal inactivity affected every
famous Pink 
T o d d 

Beach Club, a
Kimberlain of Jami McKenna 
resident who 
the C.S. 

manager, Marriott Castle would not give 
Hurricane 

Harbor hotel her name 
Center in M i a m i . Drent:hing thunderstorms inun­dated low-lying areas, flooding some roads and blocking others with uprooted trees and boul­ders, said police spokeswoman Evelvn James Barnett. 
Pa.rts of Barry Road, in the east, were washed out when a wall of water crashed over a seawall, she said. 
She said about 11,000 people suffered temporar_y power cuts as the winds downed power lines and electricity transform­ers. 
At 5 p.m. EDT. Gert's center was about 17 5 miles east­northeast of Bermuda and moving north-northeast at 20 mph. Top sustained winds slowed Tuesday from 110 mph to 105 mph and extended up to 

over the 
segment of the pop~ilation, with women -particularly Hispanic and low-income women -suffering the highest obesity rates, the ~t~d~ fou~d 
The majority ot Cahformans surveyed blamed their extra pounds on the power of sug­g<'stion: aggressive television advertising of snacks and fast food. 
The findings come as no sur­prise to Dan Best, g,e,ner~l counsel for the Cahfornia Federation of Certified Farmers' Markets. Even at farmers' markets, fresh fruits and vegetables compete with sweets. 
"At our Chavez Park market, one of the longer lines is for the Kettle Corn, which is just sugar and popcorn," Best said. "People who could have bought fruit bought snack food instead." 
Only 30 percent of Californians surveyt'd eat the five servings of vegetables or fruit daily that health officials recommend. The guidelines for grains, dairy products, beans and exercise are also largely ignored, the study found. 
The state health department conducts its survey overy two vears, interviewing over 1,700 people about their eating ~nd exercise habits and comparmg their data to the Body Mass Index, a formula that considers height and weight. 
A look at key findings from a state survey on Californians' eating habits: 
. 
ln 1997, nearly half' of all adults on an average day ate at a fast-food restaurant, up from 33 percent in 1989. 

. 
The rate of diab!-ltes increased from 4.3 per­cent of the state popula­tion in 1984 to 5 .5 percent in 1996, a 25 percent increase. 

. 
The rate of' over­weight adults increased from 17.8 percent in 1984 to 26. 7 percent in 1996, 

. 
Low-income women suffer the highest rate of obesity, with an 80 per­cent increase since 1984. 

. 
Latina women run a close second, with a 7 5 percent increase since 1984. 

. 
There were no detectable decreases in consumption of high-fat foods such as chips, pas­trifls and french fries since 1993. 

. 
Black adults' con­sumption of fruits and vegetables dropped to fewer than two servings a day, doubling the risk of some cancers and heart disease. 



phone said 
Class of 2000

there was "very severe dam­age, most of the waterfront is damaged, cottage walls have collapsed and the beach has disappeared." 
Gert is the biggest storm to threaten Bermuda since 1987, when Hurricane Emily hit, moved offshore, and then struck again. It inflicted major 
Please •join us at the

damage on the British island of 62,000 people located 600 miles east of North Carolina. 
On Monday, cruise ships 
Senior Class Mass! diverted to other portS--and hundreds of tourists fled before the airport closed Tuesday. An already struggling tourist industry began counting the cost of cancellations from its biggest market, the United States. 


Harvey sloshes across South Florida coast 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 
Tropical Storm Harvey drenched Florida's Gulf Coast with more than 10 inches of rain Tuesday, forcing schools to close, flooding homes and busi­nesses and playing havoc with travelers' plans. 
The storm left streets in the small fishing village of Everglades City under 2 feet of water as it quickly moved across South Florida toward the Atlantic Ocean. 
At 5 p.m. EDT, Harvey's cen­ter was about 35 miles south­west of Palm Beach, with sus­tained winds of about 50 mph. · 
In advance of the storm, schools were ordered shut in such Gulf Coast counties as Hillsborough, Manatee, Sarasota and St. Lucie. mostly out of fear of street flooding. Some government offices also closed for the day. 

"We've had up to 30 homes and businesses suffer some flooding," said Ken Pineau, director of the Collier County Emergency Operations Center in Naples. 
At least five Florida airports reported flight cancellations, and delays were common throughout the state. 
The storm dumped 10 inches 
This Sunday, Septe111ber 26th of rain on Collier County and about an inch on Miami-Dade County, on Plorida's Atlantic 
9pm at the Grotto

Coast, where two possible tor­nadoes we,re spotted. 
On Monday, Gov. Jeb Bush declared a state of emergency for 56 of 67 counties in antici­pation of the storm. 
The Tampa area was spared the brunt of the storm, and evacuation warnings were lift­ed. The port of Tampa also reopened. allowing for the return of a cruise ship that had been stranded in the Gulf of Mexico with 1,700 passengers after an engine room fire. 

Wednesday, September 22, 1999 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page? 
EAST TIMOR 
Westerner dead, Dili residents return from refugee camps 
Associated Press 
DILi 

A body believed lo be that a Westerner was found in a sub­urb of East Timor's capital Wednesday, Australian mili­tary officials said. Tim rnport 
came as  officials were trying  
to [ind a  missing journalist in  
tlw city.  

Col. Keith Jobson said !\ustralian-lcd peacekeeping troops had responded to the report. 
Australian authorities said a British journalist was reported missing late on Tuesday, but would not confirm the body was that of the missing man. 
A group of journalists travel­ing through town independent­ly of the international peace­keeping force found the body. 
Jobsen also said that two other journalists who were reported missing had been found and were safe. 
Hundreds of journalists have descended on East Timor to cover the story of the territo­ry's transition to indepen­dence. 
orP8t '99
011i.p 
A Benefit for the Catherine a, Peachey Fund, Inc. for Breast Cancer Research 
3 & 6 MILE RUNS, 2 MILE WAL~K... 

. AND 

i 
PANCAKE BREAKFAST SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 25 
. 

_ 11:00 -STEPAN CENTER T-SHIRTS TO ALL FINISHERS REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS $6.00 IN ADVANCE AND $7.00 DAY OF RACE 
DEADLINE FOR ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS 9/24/99 AT 5:00PM 

STUDENT AND STAFF DIVISIONS 
Associated Press 
DILi 

With East Timor's capital secured by an international peacekeeping force, Dili resi­dents returned from makeshift refugee camps Tuesday to find a looted. burned city. 
There was almost no water and no electricity. All the win­dows were smashed, most buildings had been burned down and the only signs of life were the throngs of homeless at the city's dockside. Even the hunched vendors who used to sell soft drinks from rickety carts outside the port were gone. 
"Indonesia will have to pay reparations for the loss of our hometown," said 34-year-old Filomena Bianco. 

Jose Alexandre "Xanana" Gusmao, the feisty East Timorese independence leader. said he never expected his foes were prepared to destroy East Timor before finally abandon­ing it. 
"We didn't suspect the vio­lence would take such dimen­sions,·• he said Tuesday while visiting refugees evacuated to the northern Australian town of Darwin. 
Tanks, trucks and armored personnel carriers rumbled off warships Tuesday in East Timor, and troops from 10 countries poured in for the sec­ond day without resistance from pro-Indonesia militias. About 3,000 multinational troops will be on the ground by Wednesday, nearly half the 
Tuesday,September 28 
'1=30 p.m. 
For ticket information contact the Saint Mary's Box Office 
284-4626 

total contingent of 7,500. 
But force commander Maj. Gen. Peter Cosgrove cautioned that the rest of East Timor will not be under full control for some weeks and will remain dangerous until then, particu­larly with villages still burning. lie said his troops were to begin moving outside the capi­tal on Wednesday. 
"It is too early for us to assert that the security situation over­all is anything approaching benign," Cosgrove said. 
The multinational force is attempting to restore order to a province where militias ­aided by some elements in the Indonesian army -engaged in a campaign of arson, terror and murder, driving tens of thousands of people from their homes. Human rights workers and refugees say hundreds, perhaps thousands of people, were killed. 
The militias had hoped to nullify an Aug. 30 vote, in which nearly 80 percent of the East Timorese people opted for independence from Indonesia. Indonesia invaded East Timor in 1975 after Portugal aban­doned its former colony. 
The peacekeepers' task of securing the entire province is daunting in a jungle climate filled with rugged hills and mountains. In many villages, troops may have to conduct house-by-house searches to flush out the militias. Soldiers already have detained half a dozen people found with weapons. 



THE BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP 
Amsterdam  Diisseldorf  Mexico City  Shanghai  
Atlanta  Frankfurt  Milan  Singapore  
Auckland  Hamburg  Monterrey  Stockholm  
Bangkok  Helsinki  Moscow  Stuttgart  
Boston  Hong Kong  Mumbai  Sydney  
Berlin  Jakarta  Munich  Tokyo  
Brussels  Kuala Lumpur  New York  Toronto  
Budapest  Lisbon  Oslo  Vienna  
Buenos Aires  London  Paris  Warsaw  
Chicago  Los Angeles  San Francisco  Washington  
Copenhagen  Madrid  Sao Paulo  Zurich  
Dallas  Melbourne  Seoul  

We are pleased to announce the following events: 
Information Session 
Thursday, September 23 Stadium Room, University Club 
7:00 p.m. 
Resume drop dates (Go Irish System): Start: Monday, September 27 End: Friday, October 8 
www.bcg.com 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 8 BSERVER Wednesday, September 22, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 Souch Dining Hall. Nocrc Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michelle Krupa 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogero  
AssT, MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Petelle  

NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen SPORTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler 
SCENE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAINT MARYS EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalum 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Bryan Lurz 

AD DESIGN MANAGER: Bret Hudat SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushto 
CoNTROll.ER: Timothy Li.ne GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO..............631-7 4 71 FAx.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING..................•........•.•......•63 J-6900/8840 
obsecver@datwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AssT. ME....................631-454 I BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS.........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
V!EWPOINT., ...............................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinr. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu SCENE......................................................•..631-4 540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's.............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTFMS/WE.ll ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit out Web site ar http://obseroer.nd.edu for daily updates of campus news. sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons. reviews and breaking nc':s from che A<.,ociated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for
weather for up-ro-the 
weekly student reviews 
minute forecasts 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and races ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives co search for 
aboutThe Observer 
to meet the editors and
articles published afrer 
staff
August 1999 

POLICIES . 
The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary·s College. Editorial conrem is not governed by policies of rhe administration ofeither institution. Acting as pub­lisher ofThe Observer. ihe administration ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac prohibits ihe adver­tisement of alcohol and The Observer's acceptance of advertisements from specified types of groups. 
The nc-ws is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily chose ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be direct­ed to Editor in Chief Michelk Krupa. 
Two years ago, I began my first year working in the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs. I sat in the front hall­way of the Center for Social Concerns, greeting the students arriving at our office-sponsored Welcome Back Kevin M. Huie Dance. As we expected, the back room was filled with What's a diverse group of 
Your Shade? 
students, and admittedly there were very few Caucasian students. At some point in the night, two first-year students, apparently roommates, walked in, full of energy. One was African-American, one was Caucasian. After introductions, the two followed the music to the back. I turned to a colleague and said, "Let's see how long he stays. I give him 15 minutes." Not less than two minutes went by before the Caucasian student made a bee line for the front door. 
I think I know why it happened. You might gander an educated guess as well. After all, a first-year Caucasian student at the University of Notre Dame finds himself in an unfamiliar setting, and he decides to get out of it. I may not necessarily blame him. Sounds logi­cal. Even sounds familiar. llow many people do the exact same thing? Not that I or anyone else knows the exact reason why he left. Rut I think we do_ And we think it's logical. 
So, is this really a problem'? You find yourself in an uncomfortable situation, and you decide to get out of it. OK, no problem. I encourage people to expand their comfort zones, try new things, and expand their circles, but in the end, if you are uncomfortable in a par­ticular situation, why go through the agony? And especially a first-year stu­dent, who is trying to adjust to college. 
Funny how that is -·· a Caucasian stu-

dent finds himself or herself of the minority somewhere on campus and has that choice to get out. I may just consider it a luxury. Because if you are of the minority, it is that much harder to get out. As a minority student, you can't walk into class, into a dormitory, into the dining ball, and "get out of the situation" just by walking out the door. What would you do? Maybe you would look for a friend in the hall who under­stands, who is like you, and feels the same way. Or maybe you would go to dinner at the dining hall and sit down together. Or maybe you might even stop by the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs. Of course, someone somewhere thinks you are segregating yourself, separating from the Notre Dame community. Is this really segre­gation'' I prefer to call it group cohe­sion. There is absolutely nothing wrong with hanging out with people like your­self. 
Traditionally, students of color on campus face ~any challenges at a pre­dominately white institution like Notre Dame. Traditionally, many students just don't understand. African Americans, Latinos/as and Hispanics, Asian Americans, and Native Americans account for less than 16 percent of the student body population and often face the more difficult chal­lenge of adjusting to the Notre Dame culture and the racial prejudices that have permeated through American education in the past half century. Although the projected panacea is to diversify the student body and the fac­ulty, current conditions reveal the need for initiatives that address the alien­ation under-represented students often feel. 
For all those who have trouble grasp­ing the potential challenges of students of color at Notre Dame, I have a sug­gestion. If you are of the majority popu­lation or even feel comfortable at a predominately white institution like Notre Dame, imagine yourself at anoth­er school where the majority of stu­dents are African-American, Asian American, Latino, Native American ... How would you feel? How comfortable are you knowing that when you go to class, walk into your residence hall, or eat at the dining hall, you might be dif­ferent than most of the people there? 
Honestly, how would you feel? 
However it is you think you might feel, it's OK. It's OK to be apprehensive or anxious, uneasy or unaccepted. It's OK to look for people like you and hang out with them. And if it is hard, you may need someone to understand, sonrnone to empathize. Not that you need to be treated as a basketcase, but things might be a little more challeng­ing for you. 
For some students, it's not so easy to be at Notre Dame because it is not what they know, not what they might even have expected. Hopefully, we rec­ognize this unfortunate possibility in others, and understand why some stu­dents are having a difficult time at Notre Dame, why they choose to be around others like them, and even a reason why the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs exists. Try to under­stand. Then maybe, just maybe, things can get a little better for those students who find Notre Dame a little more diffi­cult than you do. 
What's Your Shade is a bi-weekly column sponsored by the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs. It appears every other Wednesday in The Observer. Kevin M. Huie is the Assistant Director of OMSA. 
The views expressed in this column are not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

DILBERT 
---__-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-:_-_•_-_-_-_-_-_-_,_--E --_-_-:_-_•_-_-:_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_--.....--­

I HA\JE NEVER BEEN 5UMMONE.D TO YOUR. OFFICE BEFORE. IT 15 A GR.EAT HONOR. FOR AN INTERN_ ~ I NEED '<OU TO ~ @ CRAWL Tl-lROUGH ~ J THI$ /\IR. DUCT ! ~ AND FIND OUT ': 

Q ~ 
'" WHERE AIR. : 
SCOTT ADAMS 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"He was fired with enthusiasm because he wasn't fired with enthusiasm." 
Anonymous 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 
Wednesday, September 22, 1999 BSERVER page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Res Life off 
the mark 
Hcconlly, I received a second notice f'or a violation involving my vehicle dated April 24. 1999. On this datl'. I was pulled over by Notrn Dame Security for driving onto campus via the non-blockaded entrnnce by the library. While the Office of Hcsidence 1.if'c's overzealous pursuit of "justice" in this matter is valiant. it is fruitless. l have already brnm tined $50 for this violation and therefore, in my nyns, this issue has alruady been resolved. 
If' Lim omen of Hesidencc Lil'e docs not share my fooling ol' closure in this case. I will rnmind them that I grnduated in May, and do not plan to be returning to campus simply to be reprimanded or disdplinnd. My suggestions to the University are as li,llows: 1.) Barricade or otherwise dose the ramp that permits cars so easy an 1wcoss to campus with­out going through security {whnse prejudice against Llw studnnts is a topic for another letter). 2.) Inform students that this ramp is not to be usf'd. :-u Ensure that Nolrn Dame security is consistont in their 1~nf'orcmmmt of this and anv rule set forth in du Lac. 
4.l In God's Name, please tlo not waste hoth your linw and mine in further pursuit of this case, inst1md devote this passion for "justice" to more worthy causes. 
ll truly shames me (and all women who have earned the right to be called Domers} lo know that our beloved University cams more to ensure that students with cars do not have access tu their own campus than it cares to c1msure the rapists among us and to provide trnP justice Ln rap1~ victims. One example dosn to my heart is a rapn case versus more than one member of the lacrosse team. This cas1• was dismissed oven though the victim had both photographs and medical wports that confirmed the worst. 
If tlw University of Notre Dame sees lit to continue to harass an alumnus over a simple moving viola­tion and does nut begin to notice the terrible and liLsting elTecls of the crimes against humanity that are being committed right under IIer nose, then I thank the Lord that I have graduated without major incident and have thus escaped with my most per­snnal dignity. 
Tiffany Edwards 
Class of 1999 
July 25, 1999 
A song for Bob 
In light of the recent losses by the Notre Dame . Football team. I folt compelled to rewrite the lyrics to a Blink-182 song called "What's My Age Again?" 
I ran 'cm out, it was a Saturday, I wore head­
phones. so I could call the plays. We started playing 
well, we had almost scored, But then I called the last 
time out ... 
And that's about the time we lost because of me. 
Nobody loves you when you're Bob Davie. And you 
still coach like it's your first year here. Where the 
hell's my passing game. the crowd says I should lose 
my job ... 
Where's my job again? Where's my job again? 
And later on, on the bus home, I called Scholastic 
from a cell phone. I said it was Bob and we had lost 
again but this time only by a yard ... . 
And that's about the time they all gave up on me. Nobody loves vou when you're Bob Davie. You choose to punt when you have one to go, What the hell is sper.ial teams, the crowd says I should lose my job ... 
Where's my job again? Where's my job again? 
And that's about the time we lost because of me. Nobody loves you when you're Bob Davie. Ami you still coach like it's your first year here. What the hell is wrong with me, the crowd says I should lose my job. Where's my job again'? And that's about the time that they let go of me. No one should take their foot­ball so seriously. With many years ahead to win 'em all. Why would you fire me, I o~ly wanna keep my job 
Wlrnre's my jnb again? Where's my job again? 
Danica Skeoch Sophomore, Breen Philips Hall September 19, 1999 
Grad finds ND visit bittersweet 
I'm a graduate of the class of 1995 and I went back to campus for the MSU game. These are some of my observations: 
• 
There are tuo many walkways on campus. There used to be large quads of open grass on campus. Now these quads are littered with criss-cross walkways. The worst of all is in front of St. Ed's. It's disgusting. The walkways make Notre Dame look less like a col­lege and more like an amusement park. 

• 
The bookstore and alumni center are btmutiful. I'm really glad they used old-fashioned architecture. Two thumbs up. However, the nPw bookstore should be where the old on!'\ once was. It's too late now. But it really would've looked beautiful. Of course the ad min­istration is a slave to the almighty dollar and wanted 


the bookstore to have its own parking lot. Notre Dame is losing its small college feel. It's expanding outward way too much. I applaud the new amenities on cam­pus. like the 11olfs athletic facility as well as the new dorms. however these should have been built in the same old fashioned architecture as the bookstore. The Roll"s should've have been built onto the Rock. so as to preserve the small campus feel. 
• Tho school is misusing its space, Everyone on cam­pus is getting bigger offices, causing the campus to sprawl. Notre Dame's student body hasn't grown at all, but the bureaucracy multiplies. Now every crumb bum special interest on campus requires a huge office and 
an administrator. Only the administrator does lit­tle work and has to hire a staff of secretary's to do his work. At the same time the pro­fessors enjoy their tenured positions, their sabbaticals. their three-day weekends and lavish salaries. In the end all I see is that expenses keep mounting. Talk to most alumni about their Notre Dame "experience" and most will tell you about just how much debt they're in. 
• 
You used to be able to look up from just about anywhere on campus and see the dome. Now that is no longer the case. I think that is unfortunate. The school is becoming the University of Big Buildings. If Notre Dame wants to improve its racilities it should use the architec­ture building as a model. The archi­tecture building expanded, but expanded discreetly. It maintained the beautiful old-fashioned architecture and yet modernized at the same time. 

• 
Notre Dame is obsessed with becoming a premiere research and graduate school institution. It does not need to do this and should not do this. Notre Dame should look at Princeton as a model. Princeton empha­sizes its undergraduate students rather than its gradu­ate students. As Notre Dame expands and expands try­ing to look more like a research institution, it ends up looking like just any other State University, it's very close to looking like one right now. The school should curb the expansion and only do it in a style that main­tains the beauty of its historic campus. 


Regarding Football 
• The student body should lighten up a bit. The team has played tough in all three losses this year. They could've beaten all three teams. The offense needs reworking, but don't crucify Davie. He's a great defen­
sive coach, and when the team gets the offense work­ing, the Irish are going to be a powerhouse. Be patient. 
• 
As for football editorials, especially Ryan Moodie's editorial on Sflpt. 20, I was proud that The Observer published them, but Moodie should tone it down and show some class. I guarantee you that no one is more concerned about the fate of the Irish than Davie. Lay off the threats of violence, what's the matter with you? Put yourself in his position, better yet put yourself in the position of his family. It's not too reassuring to read threats in the campus newspaper. 

• 
And by the way, football is not that important. In fact it-'s embarrassing how important football is. There should be a great deal of shame that one of the nation's top academic institutions has to hire a bunch of underqualified 17-year-olds to uphold its reputation. The football players do not even come close to having the qualifications to attend Notre Dame. They spend their four years living off campus, partying, playing video games and being sexually promiscuous. Notre Dame pays them to behave in this manner. ln the end, 


when you graduate, you'll want Notre Dame to remind prospective employers more of Princeton or Harvard than Nebraska or Miami. However, when a few hun­dred, under qualified football players are able to party through four years of school. Notre Dame's academics 
will remain suspect to the population at large. 
• Notre Dame football is a fa,;ade. The best sporting events on campus are interhall football, Bookstore Basketball and Bengal Bouts. They arc genuine. There's no real recruiting. And even more important there's no money on the line, only pride. If you miss an Irish game because you really need to study, don't worrv about it. Just make sure you go to the final !'our of Bo.okstore Basketball, or catch your dorm's big rivalry match up in interhall football, or watch your buddy battle it out in Bengal Bouts. lnterhall matchups like Dillon-Alumni or Zahm-Keenan are a lot more meaningful than Notre Dame-Michigan. Do you know why? Because they're played by actual students, not professional under qualified jocks who never study. but are lavished with every privilege on campus. 
As for the Administration 
• 
Stop being such slaves to the all mighty dollar. You lavish yourselves with opulent office space, You encrusted the Church with millions of dollars in gold. You put more millions into the administration building. Somewhere the opulence should be toned down. The football and basketball oflices do not need brand new wood paneling on their exteriors. 

• 
Tone down school disciplinary rules. At Notre Dame students get expelled for smoking pot, how ridiculous. They could also be expelled for being gay or having a girl in their room. Instead of spending time and money on enforcing these rules, why not provide 


---~ 
scholarship money for students who spend their summers helping the poor? If the adminis­tration wants Notre Dame to be a Catholic school it should do it in a progressive manner. A student who is gay or smokes pot but who spends his time helping those in need should be more valuable to Notre Dame 
than a student who meticulously follows the rules and regula­tions, but never devotes an 
ounce of effort to those in need. 
• Bill Kirk looks unbelievably petty when he spends football games spying on the student body with video cameras. If you 
spot his cameras, make sure you give them the finger for me. Bill 
Kirk is an attorney who runs the Office of Residence Life. Outside of the office he's actually a good person 
who will listen to what students have to say. However, his job requires him to be petty and meddlesom·e. Someone as com­
petent and bright as Bill Kirk should not be manning the security cameras scanning the student body. If any of you are wondering, Big Brother is watching and his name is Bill Kirk. The University should give him different responsibilities, putting his talents to a more positive use. Unfortunately, I worry that Kirk really enjoys his present job. It must be fun to suspend and expel 19-year-old kids from doing what regular adults do across the United States, get drunk and a little rowdy at football games, Give the kids a break, Bill. You expelled one of my buddies for smok­ing pot. That was very Catholic of you. I hope you enjoyed stunting his opportunity to make it in the real 
world. 
on the plus side 
• I'm once again impressed by The Observer. It's an excellent daily paper for a University. Also, I'm glad the students have a new recreational facility. Rolfs is 
really nice. 
All in all, I was pleased with my trip to campus. There have been a lot of positive changes. The facili­ties are improving. I just wish the administration could improve the facilities without destroying the ambiance 
of the campus. Also, I urge you all after you graduate to visit Notre Dame on a day when it isn't mobbed by the thousands of football fans. That's what I did. I stayed one day more. That was the Notre Dame I remember. That was the quiet Notre Dame, with LaFortune and the library packed with students furi­ously studying for their next exam. The computer labs were packed with students writing papers and working on projects. That's the Notre Dame most people don't come back to visit. It's not as loud or exciting as a foot­ball game weekend, but it's certainly more beautiful. The campus is quiet and the student body is learning. 
. Come back and enjoy football game weekends. Despite my criticism, they are still a blast. But make sure you stay an extra day, so you can visit the quiet place of bright minds learning. That's the real Notre Dame. 
Mark Ellsworth Class of 1995 Novato, California September 21, 1999 


O
fHE 
BSERVER Wednesday, September 22, 1999
page 10 . 
~~w.~~~ 
~\t.i"lb-.::~*'·~·· b.«b»:,,,..­~~tfow-N 
~~:-:-~-,/4,o-,"""',"' ..,.... ,,..~,::t~:1~.J-~:x~ ·..'.~~~«:.~~~:""': ~i';'p 
~!Ji :>Mo-«~(J)>), ;i,., ~~~Ni f!ll.!1. iU)f',11" t,"~ i'>,U.;,r, ll'l ,._~!i.=M'J l}\V<;l>Pt'· Jal:tfilr~ 1.<11)i:i.., 4'. ·-"m ~", tf ~ N ~ ..•h<>(»v 
Image courtesy of Department of Art, Art History and Design 

Krzysztof Wodiczko's Homeless Vehicle, shown in both his drawings and its concrete form, comprises the homelessness facet of "Critique of the Museum in 
Contemporary Art" that will take place Friday at 2 p.m. in Debartolo 101. 
Symposium critiques modern museum 
By BRIDGET MAHONEY 
Scene W rirer 

"symposium" is one of those big, intimidating 
words. It probably brings back excruciating mem­ories of a philosophy seminar full of troublesome books one might prefer to leave on the shelf collecting dust. Its meaning must be a group of overly intellectual indi­viduals dissecting and debating dry, abstract and incomprehensible theories, right? 
Wrong. There is an appeal here for everyone. 
The art symposium, "Critique of the Museum in Contemporary Art," spans more than just artistic and art-historical issues. Incorporated themes include gen­der studies, sexuality, politics, economics, religion, pub­lic life and social activism because artists respond to these issues 
'This is the first time we've 
through their work. This Friday, the Universi tv whose work is still out Department of Art, Art History and had an artist ofthis stature there right now," said Steinke. Design is presenting the symposium come to the University Originally from Warsaw, Poland, in association with the International Wodiczko was awarded the 1999
whose work is still out 
Association of Art Critics, U.SA. To Hiroshima Peace Prize for his efforts encourage a wider audience, the there right now." toward peace and justice in the event is opr,n and free to the public, world. By increasing awareness and will take place in room 101, through his art, he challenges the
Heidi Steinke 
DeBartolo from 2 to 5:30 p.m., with a social inconsistencies of democracy 
graduate student
reception following. and questions the boundaries of will examine Sister Wendy, a cloistered nun without any educational background in art history, and how she analyzes art on her PBS television show. 
The featured artist, Krzysztof Wodiczko, a Professor of Fine Arts at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he is head of the Interrogative Design Group, will present the keynote address. He is an internationally acclaimed artist who uses such mediums as photography, design, sculpture and archi­tecture, and whose work has been displayed in over 70 countries. 
In addition, a video regarding his current work in Japan will be shown, and his book, "Critical Vehicles," recently published by MIT Press, will be available at the symposium, as well as in advance at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
"This is the first time we've had an 
artist of his stature come to the 
With various aspects of the art world represented by the four guest speakers, the pur­pose of "Critique of the Museum in Contemporary Art" is to critique and debate the museum as a cultural i'nsti­tution, its purpose and its effect on the practice of art and art history. To continuously improve the art muse­um, it is necessary to keep addressing these questions just as the public sphere's politi.,al, social and religious issues are always being challenged themselves. 
''It is part of a continuing effort to make people aware of things going on outside of here," said Heidi Steinke, a graduate student in painting, who is assisting Professor Robert Haywood with the organization of the sympo­sium. 
Professor Haywood, a Notre Dame Assistant Professor or Modern and Contemporary Art and Criticism, will kick olT the symposium with opening remarks and his lecture, "Void to Void: Sister Wendy's Grand Tour." He 
artistic practice. 
"He's very interested in different cultures and where his art fits in," said Heather .Jeno, a senior art history major. "He'll do stuff that's pretty much against the norm." 
"Homeless Vehicle" (1988), a demonstrati.on of his public intervention efforts, is a functional cart built to provide shelter and assistance to the "scavenger" homeless person. Rather than solving these problems. Wodiczko intends to articulate the conditions of the homeless, so the vehicle is shaped like a warhead to attract the attention of passers-by. 
Wodiczko is also famous for his photographic projec­tions onto architectural and sculptural monuments and buildings. They juxtapose political, economic, social and religious ideals with realities to indicate the hypocrisies of individual rights in the public sphere, As his artwork extends into the public arena, it challenges 
whether the museum is necessary for public art and what constitutes public art. Another speaker is Richard Meyer, the Assistant 
Critique of the 
Professor of Modern and Museum in Contemporary Art at the Contemporary Art University of Southern 
California. His work is fairly
. What: Ari symposium 
controversial as it considers 
. Where: Debartolo 101 questions of gender and sex­uality in artistic culture. His
. When: 2-5:30 p.m. 
lecture  will  address  
. Reception to follow  "Projections  of  Desire:  
Censorship  and  
Homosexuality  in  
Contemporary Art."  

Alan Wallach is the Ralph H. Wark Professor of Art History and American Studies at the College of William and Mary. As a renowned scholar for his research on the art museum and its function in the U.S., he will share a lecture on "The Museum of the Twenty-first Century and the Redefinition of Contemporary Art" at the symposium. 
The lecture "The Museum as Medium (Inside the Problem)" will be given by Phyllis Rosenzweig, the Associate Curator of American and Contemporary Art at the !Iirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, Smithsonian Institute, Washington, D.C. She worked closely with Wodiczko on his projection on the Hirshhorn Museum and has curated many other impor­tant exhibitions. 
In conjunction with the symposium, the video exhibi­tion "Damaged Democracies: A Documentary Exhibition of Krzysztof Wodiczko's Interrogative Art and Design," will be open at the South Bend Regional MusAum of Art Sept. 15 to 25. The video will show pie.,es of his work from around the world. 
Jeno also acts as the curator for this exhibition. It is a part of her research project funded by a $700 Undergraduate Research Opportunity Program grant. She is the first Notre Dame studAnt to curate an exhibi­tion at the South Bend Regional Museum of Art. 
On Wednesday, Steinke will also review Krzysztof Wodiczko and his artwork in her own presentation from 2 to 4 p.m. on the third floor of the Riley Hall of Art and Design. 


E R .. 

THE Wednesday, September 22, 1999 OBSERVER page I 1 
Vietnam. Sweaty palms. 
Auditions for Saint Marys play 'A Piece ofMy Heart' give actors chance to scratch performing itch early in school year 
By MARY ANNE LEWIS 
Scene Writer 
Through Saint Mary's and into Regina Hall, down the stairs and through several white, empty corri­dors into room 16 -them sit more than 30 aspiring actresses and fewer than five of' thPir male countN­parts. Amidst the old furniture and pastel yellow walls am tlw many 11ervous students ready to audi­tion. They all have one simple goal in common, "A I' ie c 1\ of' My II ear l. " Basod o n a bo o k by Kc iL h Walker. "A Pi1icH of My IIHart" presents the stories of six American women and their experiences in Vietnam. In th!' hallway outside room 16 stand sparse grnups of two to three people, each practicing for the first stage of the audition. Director Mark Abram­Cop1n1haver tells them they must express the charac­ter's need lo tell her story. "Answer the questions that the audience asks," he told the actors. "Why did you go to Vietnam'? You didn't have to. What happened to you while you were thnrn'?" Abram-Copenhaver emphasizes such a strategy ·1rncausl' of tlrn play's structure; rather· than a contin­uous plot. llrn audience will see individual characters t,ill I.heir storins separatPly. Ml'anwhilP. ba1·k in tlw hallway outside room 16, students 11x1wri11wnt with dil'forent nrnthods of por­traying certain rharacwrs. Cady Flamwry, a Saint Mary's senior, began acling al the age of' !'our and has loved the craft ever since. Wlrnn asked to evaluate the theater department al the College, she praised the intimacy of the small­collnge atmosphere. 
"lt's the same CA that you would get anywhere, but with much more individualized attention" she said. 
She has especially enjoyed her work in John Dryden's "Secret Love," a Restoration piece complete with the wigs and the exquisite costuming of the 1700s. Her theatrical background shines through her work because she uses subtlo and realistic paralin­guistics rather than the melodramatics commonly associated with the amateur actor. 
In contrast, Saint Mary's freshmen Afrika Green and Holy Cross students Brian Gallo and Vini DeDario have had little stage experience, Despite this uncertain theatrical foundation, Green has found a definite motive to be a part of this play. 
"I want to portray to the audience what the Negro woman fplt about the wars at that time period, because the part reminds me a lot of my grandmoth­er," she said. "She had to deal with all of her kids going to the armed forces." 
DeDario's reasoning for auditioning was more social. 
"I want to meet some more people, get my foot in the door over here and eventually go to Notre Dame," he said. "So if they do anything I'm sure I'll try out for that, too." 
Similarly, Gallo sees the value of theater in his life. "I used to be more tho athlete, but now I have built more character from it," he said. 
Of the more than 50 auditions, Mark can choose only eight, but the talent shown by these participants might very well earn them a role in "A Piece of My Heart." 
Saint Mary's junior Beth Gervain suggested this play to a committee that works in the Department of Communications, Dance and Theatre. The play includes six female roles and either one or two male 

NELLIE WILLIAMS/The Obseiver 
Auditions for "A Piece of My Heart" took place last Wednesday and Thursday, while callbacks were last the actor can do, he can only hope that the call will Friday. The play wm be performed Nov. 11-14 at the Little Theater of the Moreau Center. indeed come. 

Saintl\f,l(r;yts 
11A:Riece, ofMy Heart" 
. ,·.·.· ...•.... < ..• hlrlfr);;tllce · 
·'J:1~tl~ctive•' · · •.•··· ··· ·•· ·. 


·April 13-16 
Oct. 6-10 

Feb. 20, 23-26 
April 12-16 
roles. The first half of the play presents a series or stories told by the women of their preparation for Vietnam, training, the trip, the experience and leav­ing. The second half shows the women back in America, trying to put their lives back together from where they left off, their difficulties with American reactionism, their feelings about work, their self­images and their relationships. 
Because the play recounts strong, contemporary issues, much interest has arisen. Some nurses who live in the South Bend community and who served in Vietnam have volunteered to talk with the actors and even to host a talkback session at one of the perfor­mances. Moreover, the Moving Wall, part of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial, wHI soon arrive in Berrien Springs, and the cast will have a chance to see it. Because "A Piece of My Heart" begins and ends with the wall, it has great symbolic significance for the play, and this chance to see the wall is a priceless one.­
After preliminary auditions had concluded, Abram­Copenhaver seemed pleased. 
"l saw several strong performances. l saw many competent performances," he said. "I saw very few weak performances, and that is what was so nice." 
Callbacks were distinctly different from the first round of audtions. While the preliminaries were structured, the second round would rely much more heavily on the actors' imaginations, to see the agility and improvisational skills of the actors. 
Friday evening the actors divided into groups of about six people, while Abram-Copenhaver called each person up individually to re-enact a traumatic experience. The exercise ranged from asking Notre Dame lf'prechaun Mike Brown for his phone number to finding out that a family member had died. Some chose to present humorous situations while others presented tragic scenes. All were true. 
Finally, they sang. Groups of four gathered togeth­
...:. 
er and sang Bob Dylan's "Blowin' in the Wind" to capture the spirit of the Limes: 
How many times must a cannon ball.f7.y 
Before they 're forever banned? 
The answer. my friend, is blowin • irz the wind 
The answer is blowin' in the wind. 
Most peopln don't realize the amount of stress and work that actors and directors put into the casting process. Still, the most important part of it all is the excitement. When an actor walks into room 16 for the first time, he has no idea just how tough the com­petition will be. When walking on to the stage, an actor does not know exactly what the director hopes to see. And when an actor waits for the call that will tell him that the director wants to see more of what 

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 22, 1999 
(. 
RYDER CUP 

Woods looks to carry momentum into Ryder Cup 
whether he was in a slump 
Associated Press 

were' put to rest in a frighten­ing display of golf the pastBROOKLINE. Mass. four months. Woods has won Tiger Woods has one more five of his last eight tourna­score to·settle. ments, including the PGA Any questions about Championship aL Medinah and 

CLASSIFIEDS 
the NEC Invitational against the most elite field this year. 
He is No. 1 in the world rankings and in the mind of everyone at The Countr-y Club gathered for the Ryder Cup. About the only thing Woods has yet to do is put his hands on the gold chalice that Europe has made off with the past two matches. 
This time. Woods is ready to do his part. 
"Tiger at the moment is playing some of the best golf in his career," U.S. captain Ben Crenshaw said Tuesday. "Ht~'s gaining confidence with evAry sp,ason, and it's showing in a lot of departments of his game. He's a very, very smooth engine right now." 
That wasn't the case two years ago. 
Woods may have been the Masters champion. the master of match play and the hottest property in golf, but he had not won in nearly three months going into 1997 Ryder Cup. llis swing was in the mid­dle of reconstruction and his confidence was on life sup­port. 
"You know when you're not playing well," Woods said. "You always hope you can find it on the range, but I didn't. I wasn't playing very well, and unfortunately it carried over into the Ryder Cup." 
After winning his inaugural 
match with Mark O'Meara, 
Woods didn't win again at 
Valderrama. The crushing 
blow was a singles loss to for­
mer factory worker Costantino 
Rocca. which took the steam 
out of an American rally and 
resulted in another European 
victory. 
He still remembers the cover 
on the magazine after the 
Ryder Cup. "Pain in Spain," 
said the headline, acconipa­
nied by a photo of Woods in 
anguish. 
"It wasn't Europe winning," he said. "It was my fault, just like it was Curtis Strange's .fault at Oak Hill. That's not right. We both played our hearts out. I just wasn't able to play as well as I would have 
liked. 
"This year is a different 
story," he said, a confident 
smile returning to his face. 
'Tm playing well coming into 
the event. I've had a pretty 
good summer." 
Pretty good? 
He beat a field in Germany 
that had six of the top 10 play­
ers in the world. 
He won the Memorial with 
finesse and the Western Open 
with power, the PGA 
Championship with nerve and 
the NEC Invitational with 
savvy. 
Payne Stewart may be the 
emotional leader, Davis Love III has played in more Ryder Cups, but Woods could hold the key for the Americans to win back the Ryder Cup for the first time since 1993. 

"Tiger could definitely lead through his play," Jim furyk said. "If he goes out there and plays the way he's capable, then that's going to be a big advantage for us. That in itself could probably bring the rest of us up to a better level." 
Nu. he cannot win this cup by himself. As Colin -Montgomrrie noted, "All one player can do is win five points, and it takes 14 1/2 points to win." That's asking a lot, even of Woods. The last player to go 5-0 in the Hyder Cup was Larry Nelson in 1979. 
lf Woods senses any pres­sure to carry the load, it also falls to the entire team. On paper, the U.S. strength is undeniable -more experi­ence in the Hyder Cup, more experience winning major championships, all 12 players ranked no worse than 28th. 
Europe has the experience that counts, however -win­ning the cup. 
It has seven Ryder Cup rook­ies on this team, which could be a factor until one considers that five rookies on the '97 team accounted for eight points in a European victory. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES 
SKYDIVE!! Try the ULTIMATE RUSH Training students for over 30 years 1 hour North of South Bend Call tor class times GREAT LAKES SKYDIVERS 1-800-351-6617 
To the young man who called me unprintable names and a fair­weather fan when I left at half-time because I was not feeling well: 
I have strep throat. I hope you caught it. 
LOST & FOUND 
FOUND: WATERMAN BALL POINT PEN BY SAINT MARY'S LAKE. CALL LORA 631-6967. 
LOST A palmpilot. Palm V. extremely important!! If found please call 4· 0870 
WANTED 
STUDENT OPENINGS 5-30 hrs./week. Flex. around classes. Scholarships avail. www.workforstudents.com/lN 282-2357 
Spring Break '00 Cancun,Mazallan or Jamaica From$399 fleps wanted1 Sell 15 and travel free! LOWEST PRICES GUARAN­1EED!!I lnfo:Call 1-800-446·8355 www.sunbreaks.com 
DON'T WORK THIS SCHOOL YEAR! $1200 TO $2000 THIS MONTH. Part time 4 to 6 hours per week. Call 24 hrs (219) 239-6709 
Help wanted at 4 Michiana loca­tions. Great pay. flex. hrs. No Sundays. Apply in person or send resume to: FRULLA Tl CAFE/UP MALL 6501 N. GRAPE RD. #576 MISHAWAKA, IN 46545 SPORTS CLUBS & STUDENT GROUPS-Earn $1 000-2000 with easy CIS Fund event.No sales required.Fund Rasier days are filling up, so call today.Contact Joe @ 1-888-522­4350. 

Loving ND-SMC couple wishes to adopt. Will provide a lifetime of laughter.love.devotion and opportu­nities. 800-484-4699 code 0019 
COACH:Need Jr. High boys soccer coach responsible.dependable.student or grad to coach 7-8th grade soccer B-team.Soccer Sept-Oct;for south side elementary school.located near Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street. Must be available for prac­tices Mon-Thurs tram 2:20­
3: 15.Game schedule varies with 5· 6 games beginning after school at 4:00,or 5pm.Paid position.Call 291­4200 to apply. SOCCER REFEREES-needed for south side elementary school.locat­ed near Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street.$20.00 per game to qualified refs.Call 291-4200 
Love animals? Landlord won't let you have a pet? Get your animal fix by volunteering at Pet Refuge. The refuge is look· ing for volunteers to help feed and care for dogs and cats. Call 256­0886 for more information. 
2 Babysitters (preferably friends) lor evening of Oct. 8 and during day of Oct.9 (during ASU game) tor 3 year old and 9 mo. old. Must have some experience and be energetic. Good pay. Call Linda at 937-294-4857. 
HEAVENLY HAM Immediate Openings for Energetic Individuals. 
Store Work Hours: M·F 7:30 to 5:30 Sat: 8:00 to 2:30 No Sundays WIii schedule work around class­es.Apply at 2307 Edison. 288-4267 
FOR RENT 
ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE HOME FOR 
ND-SMC EVENTS. 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 243-0658. 
HOMES CLOSE TO CAMPUS http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/ 232-2595 
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $80­$115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road Exit #107, 1· 800-418-9487 
LOADED 
6 Bed rm '00-01 yr. 
273-04821 234-3831 
BED 'N BREAKFAST 
REGISTRY 
219·291-7153 
AVAILABLE 2000-01 4-6 Student Rental. Large rooms. reasonable, awesome bonus room!! Details. Dave 291-2209. 
3-bdrm duplex, remodeled, 503 Eddy, 1 mi. from campus. Appliances, W/D. 273-8332. 
5 bedroom house prime location 105 Marquette Ave Available now 232-6964 
FOR SALE 
Spring Break Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise 5 Days $279! Includes Meals! Awesome Beaches.NightlifelCancun & Jamaica 7 Nights From $399! Florida $129!springbreaktrave\.com 
1-800·678-6386 
FOR SALE 
N.D. FOOTBALL TIX 
CALL 271-9412 
LAKEFRONT BY OWNER, 3 bdrm. ranch, lg den, 2 car gar., full base­ment, 3 seas. porch. deck, most ev. new, much more. 15 mi. from cam• pus. 616·663-6308. 
Phone Cards, 669 min/$20 
243-9361 or 258·4805 
Washer&Dryer. Apartment· 
sized, stacking w/ frame. 
Hooks into sink faucet. Great ·condition. $500/obo 631·6101. 
MAC 520 LAPTOP Y2K COMP. SELDOM USED $375. APPLE STYLE· WRITER PRINTER $75. 287-7928 
TICKETS 
Need 2 ND vs. USC GA tix. Call Autumn at 284-5024. 
The Observer6s driver needs two GA tix for ANY game. Please call Jack at (219) 257-1141. 
WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT­BALL TICKETS 271-1526 
SELL & BUY GA FOOTBALL TICK­ETS 277-6619 
WANTED­ND football !ix. AM -232-2378 PM -288-2726 
ND football tix for sale. AM • 232-2378 PM -288-2726 
I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME GAMES.2726551 
BUYING and SELLING N D FOOT­BALL TICKETS. GREAT PRICES. CALL 289-8048 
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++ 
N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS BUYISEUflRADE ALL GAMES ALL LOCATIONS GREAT PRICES 271-9330 l!NO STUDENT TICKETS!! 
TICKETMART INC. www.ndtickets.com 
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++ 
FOR SALE 
N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS CALL 271-9412 
SPRING BREAK 2000 "THE MILLENIUM" A NEW DECADE ... NCE IN TRAV• EL.FREE TRIPS.FREE MEALS!JAMAICA.CANCUN,FLORI DA,BARBADOS,BAHAMAS.SIGN UP BY NOV. 5 FOR 2 FREE TRIPS AND FREE MEALS! 1800·426-7710 WWW.SUNSPLASHTOURS.COM 
BIG IRISH CATHOLIC FAMILY!NEED 16 G.A. TIX FOR USC GAME!CALL DAVE@ 773­281-7690 OR 610-971-2295 WITH ANY TIX.THANKS. 
Need tix tor Oklahoma, Arizona State. Call Michelle, 233-9037or 631­4542. 
l need 2 ND vs. USC GA tickets! Please call Autumn at 284·5024. 
WANTED:USCTIX 247-1659 
Need !ix for Navy. Buy/trade. Call 251·0001 • Andy. 
NEED: Oklahoma tickets for family. x2795-John 
Need 3 USC tickets Please call Tom 634-1440 
Need 1 Oklahoma & 1 Navy GA. Call 4-2535 
Need 2 ASU Tickets Call Travis@ 319-241-1082 
NEED TWO GA TIX TO BC GAME FOR PARENTS CALL KATIE AT 4­1422 
WANTED! 2 pairs of !ix and Joyce/Stadium parking pass for ASU. Call Alex Boyle@ 800·221­7676 M-F 9-5 
NEED 8 OKLAHOMA TIX sets of 4 or more wanted TOP$ Paid Colin x1627 
PERSONAL 
Gay, Lesbian and Bisexual students of ND/SMC meeting each Thurs. For info call: 
(877)631 ·6OUT 
GRANDMOTHER WILL BABYSIT IN HER HOME. 233-2704 
We're looking for Pepper's head• shot. 
don't go see the movie stigmata. Pay us five bucks and you can look at Josh's side. It bleeds sponta­neously. Cool! 
All we can find is Salt's. That's like her though. Struggling with self-esteem? Frustrated with the opposite sex?Can't understand your room­mates? Having trouble relaxing? Embarrassed about yourfamily and their behavior?Feeling alone as a graduate student and wishing you had more support? 
IF ANY OF THESE QUESTIONS 
RING A BELL WITH YOU­CONSIDER JOINING A GROUP! 
The University Counseling Center is currently screening individuals with a variety of interpersonal con­cerns to join small,confidiential groups as a way to learn about themselves and support others. Please call us at 631-7336 to get 
more information. 
Thank you to all the people who helped me be sick the past few days-Jessie for going with to the ER and Kate for picking me up and SKB and all my freshmen and Mary who kept bringing food and Krupa and Shanahan for picking up my slack and Christie tor the Tylenol and evelybody who stopped by to cheer me up. And Shanahan again for the life-saving applesauce. 
Joe H., I think your tandem bike is cool, despite what some of my co-work­ers seem to think. 
And now I am several days behind. 
What a way to slart the year. 
LP -you forgot about the srnutl 
who ever said tandem bikes aren't cool? I'd take a spin on a tandem over a ride on a Harley anyday1 
It's like you're my classified pen pall How cute. 
If Gleason had a tandem, he'd be perfect. What a hunk! 
Experts: Pepper still bad. Researches study alarming fat content 
Hello chris, whats going on? 
Goodbye 


Wednesday, September 22, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
WOMEN'S GOLF 

The William and Katherine Devers Program in Dante Studies presents its fourth annualfall lecture series: 
Podraza leads Belles, 
ranks in MIAA list 

shot at Alma's Pine River County major pastime," Podraza said. Club. At Defiance's Kettenring "I would definitely like toVisit The Observer online at OBSERVER.ND.EDU Country Club, in the final meet coach." 
THIS FRIDAY NITE, COME OUT TO ST. PATRICK'S COUNTY PARK FOR THE FIRST CONCERT OF THE FALL!!! 
5I51ER HAZEL, LIVE ON 5fAGE PERFORMING 'All FOR vou·, ·HAPPY· AND BRANO NEW fRACK5 FROM fHEIR NEW CDfff 

~,..,s

INalNDamtf 
. 4r~o11c.., 'tJ4r~F/"'

u 
0 
0 t) rl,.~Nc-
A t. $ ,~
~1 .. 
Skt.e$o~I» f'j~•0 {li~lS'o 
j 4io,jf
.

(tt.uam I 

Proceeds to Benefit Abused and Neglected Children 

-, 
i.. 

~)
DANTE & MODERN ITALIA,j:i;:,M'liTRY~l
/:IR:'· t}it '"" T '& --" 
~#,,~~­
"Uncovering Dad~jl{ Petra~h" 
> 

Dennis DUtschke 
\ 
'"¾:\ ··•·--···•· _.,/#~;{)~;:?'
Department dFi:., ·--.--·· ':~ollections, 102 Hesburgh Library 
l .-. re. All are welcome. :@:>·-· 

for further information call (219) 631-5610 or visit the Devers Web site at http://www.nd.edu/-devers 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
Spons Writer 
At Crystal Lake South High School in Illinois, Heather Podraza was one of two girls on the boy's varsity golf team. 
She advanced to the state tournament. 
Nov,· Podraza is leading Saint Mary's golf squad in its second season as a varsity team. 
She began her college career at Ball State University where she ran cross country but did not play golf. She transferred after her freshman year to Saint Mary's. Podraza was a major contributor to the team in its inaugural season and has high expectations for this season. 
''It's been a good time [on the team]." Podraza said. "I've had fun getting to know the coach. The freshmen are really great this year. I'm happy I'm here. I love Saint Mary's College." 
Last season, Saint Mary's golf team only had five members, one of whom was Podraza. In the first round of last season, held at Concord Hills Golf Club and hosted by Albion, Podraza and her teammate Mary Claire Hathaway led the team with scores of 100. 
In the second round, Podraza led her team with a score of 88, of last year's season, Podraza again led her team with a score of 99. 
This year, she scored a 99 at the first tournament, hosted by Alma, and then improved to a 96 at Saint Mary's home tourna­ment, held at Brookwood Golf Course. 
Podraza is ranked in the top 20 this season on the MIAA's list of League Leaders for women's golf. 
"Heather is a very talented and wonderful person," said teammate and captain Kyle Veltri, one of three members, including Podraza, to return to the team this year. 
"She's a pleasure to play golf with." Veltri said. "She has a wonderful personality and work ethic that's made her game very strong. Her influence pushes the rest of the team to work hard and play well." 
Podraza gets her golf back­ground from her father. 
"My father was the junior var­sity [golf] coach [at my school]. He is the reason I play golf," Podraza said. "He's been real supportive and helped me have fun playing golf." 
Podraza's future plans after college include teaching high school English to freshmen and sophomores. 
"[Golf] will definitely be a 
. · t ·-. 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 22, 1999 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 

Yankees keep lead, stop Chicago's streak 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Andy Pettitte pitched neatly into the eighth inning and the New York Yankees beat the Chicago White Sox 3-1 Tuesday night to hold their three-game lead in the AL East. 
Paul O'Neill reached 100 RBIs for the third straight sea ­son and Chuck Knoblauch had three hits as the Yankees kept their edge over Boston. The Red Sox beat Toronto 3-0. 
New York also cut its magic number for clinching a playoff spot to five over Oakland, which later played Minnesota. 
The Yankees started their final homestancl of the season by winning for the sixth time in seven games. Chicago had its four-game winning streak stopped. 
Pettitte (14-11) improved to 
6-0 at home against the White 
Sox. He gave up six hits, including a home run by Carlos Lee in the second inning, and left after a one-out walk in the eighth. 

Jeff Nelson finished the eighth and Mariano Rivera pitched the ninth for his 42nd save in 46 chances. Rivera has not allowed a run in 22 appear­ances, a span of 24 1-3 innings. 
New York managed only three singles against James Baldwin (10-13) before scoring three times in the fifth. 
Ricky Ledee and D'Angelo Jimenez opened with singles and Joe Girardi's safetv­squeeze bunt produced the tying run. Knoblauch followed with a single, but lefi fielder Darrin Jackson made a perfect throw to the plate to nail Jimenez. 
After Derek Jeter's infield hit, 
O'Neill lined a drive in the gap 
that glanced off the glove of 
right fielder Magglio Ordonn 
for a two-run double. 

YOU 
JUST FOUND A DIAMOND IN A MOUNTAIN 
OF ROCKS. 
Looking for a fun and rewarding 
PART-TIME job? 
Omni point has the perfect position for you! A leader in the wire­less industry, we are currently seeking part-time employees to help us expand our fast growing market. 
PRODUCT SAMPLERS 

10-15 Hours per week (Weekend hours required) $10 per hour PLUS commissions! If you enjoy meeting people -want to gain selling experience -want to learn more about the explosive telecommunications business AND want a FREE PCS Digital Phone, then 
OMNIPOINT wants to speak with you! 
For immediate consideration, fax, e-mail or call today! Fax: 317-347-7024. E-mail: bhatcher@omnipoint-pcs.com Ph: 317-347-7100. An EOE, we screen candidates for a drug-free work environment. 
~OMNIPOINT" 
WHERE PROMISING FUTURES ARE TAKING SHAPE. 
www.omnipoint.com 

Please recycle The Observer. 

LaFortune Student Center Campus-Wide Open House 


.J 
\.. 
• 

Thursday, September 23 11:00am -2:00pm 
The Student Activities Office is-inviting you to join the students and staff of the entire La Fortune Student Center as we celebrate a new academic year. Visit "LA PLAZA" in the lower level, "LOS RESTAURANTES" on the 1st floor, and "LOS CENTROS" or, the 2nd and 3rd floors. 
We'll have FREE FOOD, GIFTS, MUSIC, and SURPRISES. 
For more information ca/1631-7308 or visit our web site at www.nd.edu/~saollafiesta.htm 
. r 
HAIR MODELS NEEDED For Monday's Training Program by Licenseed Professionals Call for Information 289-5080 
page 15

Wednesday, September 22, l 999 The Observer . SPORTS 
Hebert 
continued from page 20 
recalled. "But them was lhis guy down tlrn hall, Tim Lynch, who was a walk-on. I became rnally good friends with him, and he sort of convinced me." 
Despite hearing Lynch's story of battling his way onto the team. Hebert was skeptical about joining. 
"I really didn't think it was possible when I {irst came here and saw al.I the players," Hobert said. "But he basically gave me lots of advice. He was also really little, so I thought, 'If' this little guy can make it. I'm going fo try.'" 

After trying out for the team, and eventually being accepted, Hobert found himself looking at a tough hill to climb. 
"Basically. my first spring was kind of like being at the bottom of' a totem pole," he said. "You don't get to do any drills. I tried to do some of them, but I sometimes was doing them wrong. Of course, you get sent straight to the scout team, and that's what I started out doing. In fact, I'm still doing scout team stuff now." 
After working his way up the ladder on the scout team his sophomore year, Hebert finally got· his chance to take his first steps on the field as a player, against defending national champion Michigan last season. 
"To tell vou the truth, 1 was pretty nervous beforehand," Hebert recalled. "But once I got on the field, it kind of n~els like practice. There's just so much adrenaline pumping with all those people there. There's such a huge difference between being on the sidelines and on the field." 
Hebert was in on a blocking play as a receiver and didn't expect to return to action so soon. But next weekend against Michigan State, fate stepped in once again. 
"I was actually listed as a third-string on kickoff returns,'' Hebert said. "But in the first quarter, both guys ahead of me got hurt on the same play. That's how I got on special teams for that game. {The coaches] then just left me on it 

We Keep it Simple as 1 • 2 · 3 1 -We buy at special pricing direct from the manufacturer. 2 -We supply other diue shops through our warehouse. 3 -We sell gear through our website (www.diuingdeals.com) or you can buy direct from our store in Niles, MI at the same great warehouse prices. 
PR ICE GUARANTEE 
We Will Beat Rny Local Shops Price + A Free Gift 
GREAT LAKES 111VING CENTERS 

216 E Main 
Downtown Niles. Ml 
A DIVER'S WAREHOUSE STORE1•1 
616-683-4502 

FEMINIST COLLECTIVE 
MEETING @ 9PM AT SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE LEMANS HALL WOMENS CENTER 
\.E~YONE U.EILCOf\\E!! 
for the rest of the year." 
He played all 12 regular sea­son games as a reserve wide receiver for the Irish that year. as well as in the Gator Bowl. Playing a vital role in special teams on kickoff return and punt return squads, he contin­ued to improve in the oITseason. 
When junior Ron Israel suf­fered an ankle injury this sea­son, Hebert became his replacement on both return squads, eventually leading to his blocked punt last weekend. 
"l really didn't think I was going to block it," Hebert recalled. "I really wasn't expecting to get to it, but I reached out my arm and it hit my hand." 
While Hebert may not be a quickly recognized athlete on campus, his teammates know about his spirit and determina­tion. 
"He's always really enthusi­astic, always ready to go," said Brendan O'Connor, Hebert's classmate and a former walk­on. "Last year, when we were scouting for the Navy game, we had him [imitate! a player on the scout team. He'd keep get­ting hit, and hopping back up. You know he was hurting, but he went on playing anyway." 
Juggling daily football prac­
tices, maintaining his grades as 
a mechanical engineering 
major and working at Career 
and Placement Services, Hebert 
keeps a busy schedule both in 
and out of football season. 
"It's not so tough, but you have to spend all your time doing it," he said about balanc­ing his daily workload. "But if you happen to slack off, it's hard. Basically, all my time is just work, school and football. There's little time for anything else." 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 22, 1999 
NFL 

Falcons' Anderson suffers knee injury, out for season 
Associated Press 
SUWANEE, Ga. 
An 0-2 start became an after­thought for the NFC champion Atlanta Falcons, who received the devastating news Tuesday that All-Pro running back Jamal Anderson is out for the season with a knee injury. 
Anderson tore the anterior cruciatc ligament in his right knee Monday night in a 24-7 loss to the Dallas Cowboys, going down without being touched on his third carry of the game. 
'Tm extremely upset and sad­dened by this turn of fate," Anderson said. "I will do every­thing in my power to return better than I was before, as quickly as I can." 
He won't be returning this season. The personable 26­year-old, whose "Dirty Bird" dance became a symbol of the Falcons' improbable run to the Super Bowl, is expected to undergo surgery in about two weeks. 
Under the best of circum­stances, he would be recovered in time for the start of training camp next year. 
Anderson rushed for a fran­chise-record 1,846 yards and set an NFL mark with 410 car­ries last season. llis punishing style and remarkable durability set the tone for a ball-control offem;e that helped the falcons 

,. reach the Super Bowl for the first time in their, 34-year histo­ry. Now. Atlanta will hand the ball to third-year back Byron Hanspard, who missed last sea­son with an injured knee after rushing for 335 yards as a rookie. "It is one of those deals that it happens, and you hate it; but vou can'l dwell on it," coach Dan Reeves said. "We have got to move forward and try to get the job done." · This season, Anderson missed two weeks of training camp in a contract dispute, finally report­ing two days before the first exhibition game after receiving a five-year, $32 million contract -including a $7.5 million sign­ing bonus. Anderson was held to 50 yards on 16 carries in a season­opening loss to Minnesota. and managed only nine yards against the Cowboys before his season came to an end. Reeves was asked if the hold­out might have contributed to Anderson's injury. ''Everybody has got their opinions and so forth, hut you don't know and you never will know," the coach replied. "It is just unfortunate that it hap­pened. It happens a lot. It seems like when a guy holds out, he comes back in and has injuries. That is the tough part." Against the Cowboys, Atlanta already was missing quarter­back Chris Chandler, who strained a hamstring against the Vikings. 
Leader/Manager. Full-time college students or graduates. $31 Kstarting salary. Summer interns available. 
U.5.M.C. Officer Programs. 
Contact Lt. Simek at 7 65-7 43-8359. 

Without their two best offen­sive players, the Falcons failed to move inside the Dallas 30 until the fourth quarter. Atlanta avoided it first shutout since 1993 when third-string quar­terback Danny Kanell threw a 45-yard touchdown pass to Tim Dwight with four minutes remaining. 
Chandler is questionable for Sunday against St. Louis. 
"That is the way life is," Reeves said. "You are not going to get a lot of sympathy from anybody. Pimple aren't really interested in anything ot.hcr than results." 
Anderson was injurnd on a seemingly harmless play, rais­ing more questions about the effects of playing on artificial turf. 
After taking a handoff, he attempted to cut to the left while still in the backfield. He crumpled to the ground in obvi­ous pain with no one around 
him. 
At first, the injury was diag­nosed as merely a sprain. 
A more extensive examina­tion revealed the Falcons' worst fears: Anderson tore his ACL. 
"It is one of those deals that you could possibly not do any­thing and he possibly could play two or three of the last games of the season," H.eeves said. "But that would jeopardize his career, and we don't want to do that. We will get the thing lixed and hopefully have it so that in the future it will be a good, sound knee." 
Anderson, an obscure sev-. enth-round pick from Utah in l 994, developed into one of the Falcons' most dynamic players, rushing for more than 1,000 yards in each of the last three seasons. 
Denver linebacker John back-kick returner Leon Mobley, St. Louis quarterback Johnson all suffered torn knee Trent Green and Jets running ligaments. 

'iJ;;:'!::ftarJt?i"' :c··r1/s1···
. ' ',.. "• 
·Birtb<la Matt, 
We h~Ve,hila¢ked the· Birthday d.ialoeue. When a,man:wants· to have a Birthday in thiscountrY. he has no .. where to turn. 

Cordelia, Elizabeth. Laura. MJ. Nathaniel. Shelia. and Stephen SOPhia: the Jerusalemites 


------...._.......------•--~--....----------·----­

Wednesday, September 22, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 

JOHN DAILYfThe Observer 
Sophomore Mia Sarkesian (4) attempts to gain control of the ball in a home game against Butler. Sarkesian and the Irish are looking to get back on track after a 1-0 loss to SMU. 
If our delicious, flame-broiled double cheeseburger were any bigger, we'd need to buy more ad space. 
Notl,mg heats uur h1g._1u1cy Douhlc ChrL'schurgcr, It's got the \!tc;it t;1~tc of illlnl' hrrn ling anJ h,t!-7:i 01h 11101\' hccf tha11 l\k I )rn1.1kl'~· ( :hr-c~chuq~L·r 
1Pr1ce and parlic1pat101• 111.:'/ vary I 


It just tastes better. 

year. That's what you have to do if you want to get there."
Soccer 
The captains also held one­on-one meetings with eachcontinued from page 20 
member of the team. "I think it is the job of the pionship." captains right now to help
The Irish were able to refocus the team and make accept the loss to North sure everyone knows their Carolina more easily because role and what they need to do the Tar Heels were ranked to improve individually,"
No. 1, according to junior for­Lindsey said. ward Meotis Erikson. The captains' message is "One can 
clear to the 
make excus­
"We have kind ofbeen t e a m , 
es that Mikacenic
relying on the fact that
Carolina said. was ranked we are Notre Dame and "Basically.higher than, we can come out and the captains 
us so we told us to refo­
beat them in the first
weren't cus and figure
expected to .five minutes because out what we win," she to.
they are intimidated by wanted 
said. "I achieve this 
us.
think we year and put w e r e the work in to expected to LaKeysia Beene achieve it," 
beat SMU so she said.
Irish goalie
it made it 
harder, but 
you don't want to lose any 
games. Whether its Carolina 
or SMU, its not fun to lose." 
Following the tough loss, 
Notre Dame has refocused for 
the rest of the season. This 
new found intensity and sense 
of purpose was evident in 
Monday's practice. 
"The intensity was at a com­pletely different level than it has been all season," Lindsey said. "People were upset about the loss and we don't want to fall down. Being 4-2, it's time to get our game in gear and ready to go because the rest of the season really matters now." 
Practice began 45 minutes earlier than usual with the players working to improve individual skills. The earlier starting time was the player's idea and not something that the coaches set, according to Waldrum. 
"It wasn't something that was required," he said. "They took it upon themselves and I am really happy to see it. We have set some goals and we were talking about where we wanted to be at the end of the 
The Irish 
also will 
receive a boost when junior 
midfielder Anne Makinen 
returns to the team this week. 
Makinen has missed the past 
four games because she was 
competing with the Finnish 
national team. 
While Notre Dame is excited 
about the return of the pre­
season All-American, it knows 
that they cannot rely on 
Makinen alone to put the team 
back on track. 
''Certainly, any time you can put an All-American on the field, it helps," Waldrum said. "But I don't know if her return will drastically help us without the team collectively changing. It's going to help 
..
but it will take more than 
Anne to turn this team 
around." 
Makinen's presence may help with the flow of the game, but the Irish are still emphasizing that every player must improve.. 
"One player cannot make or break a team," Erikson said. "She will help us a great deal but for us to be successl"ul, every player must do lheir job." 
INDIANAUNIVERSITY 
SournBEND 
CONTINUING EDUCATION 
GRE LSAT 
EXAM REVIEW COURSES· 
Be better prepared for the GRE or LSAT and spend less money doing so. IUSB Continuing Education exam reviews are priced hundreds of dollars ·less than other exa·m prep programs and offer you proven strategies for attacking even the most difficult questions. 
GRE Review: five Wednesdays, beginning Oct. 13, 6-10 p.m., and Saturday, Nov. 13, 8 a.m.-noon; $389. 
ISAT Review: two Wednesdays and two Thursdays, beginning Oct. 13, 6-10 p.m.; $289. 
All classes meet on the IUSB campus, 1700 Mishawaka Ave., South Bend. Fees include all materials. 
To register or for more information, call IUSB Continuing Education at 237-4261. 
Please Recycle The Observer 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS . Wednesday, September 22, 1999 

Running 
continued from page 20 
place finish overall among many larger schools. 

Ilildebrand is a two-year varsity letter winner, and a ,. business major from New 
Buffalo, Mich. 
She ran cross-country for New Buffalo High School before coming to Saint Mary's. 
Last season, Hildebrand was named to the 'vlIAA honor role. In order to qualify, Hildebrand had to maintain a 

3.5 cumulative GPA for the year and season. 
Hildebrand's contribution to the team is not only scoring at meets, teammates said. 
"Krista is such a role model for our team," Yavello said. "She's always making sure that everyone's needs are taken care of." 
Anna Dirkes. a freshman on the team agrees. 
"She was very welcoming on the first day,"shc said. "She's great captain and leader." 
Molly McVoy contributed to this report. 


Making a difference has always been a matter of _applying yourself. Her.e's where to apply. 
PEACE ·CORPS 
The toughest job you'11 ever J.ov.e. 


. Row rar are ycu. .:1llil!g to go w make a <lii'fer81l<:e? 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRI DAME 
Information Meeting
Sunday, kptember 16, 4:00 -6:00 p.m. 
Lafortune Hall, Montgomery Theater 
Interviews Monday, September 27 • Tucsdly, September !28 8:30 a.m. -5:00 p.m., career Services, Flanner Hall 
Contact us at www.peacecorps.gov or 1-800-424~8580. 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Badin, B.P. continue rivalry 
By STEVEN DILLENBURGER 
Sporrs Writer 
The premier matchup on the Wednesday night interball schf'ldule featurns Radin and Breen Phillips. 
The teams battled lo a 6-6 tie last year. Their srasons, howev­er, went in vastly different direc­tions. 
Badin ended thP year at 1-4-1 and in the cellar of their divsion. Meanwhile, the then-Banshees made the playoffs on thoir wav to a stadium appearance. Badin. however. intends to make some noise in the gold division. 
Prissy Clements, who was injured ·in the first game of last year, looks to provide leadership and athleticism as the starting quarterback. She will be helped by a strung cure of wide recriw:rs, including Betsy Cavo and Ilelena Pan. 
Gansen noted that the biggest question mark for Badin in this game will be the coaching. The coaches am very exdted about the strong group of freshmen. Radin captain Cavo says that the team has a lot of talent and looks to go very far this year. 
Badin is interested in the way they will rnatchup with B.P. If the offense is able to put togeth­er some long drives, it can pull off the upset. 
B.P. will not have many sur­prises when it faces Badin at 7 
p.m. at Stepan, but what they do have is an experienced team poised to get back to the stadi­um. 
B.P.'s defense, led by Ann Moriarty and Karen Swanson, is its strong suit. Its defense shut out Farley in its opener and scored eight points in the 8-0 vic­tory. The offense, spearheaded by fifth-year senior Jenny Choi, looks to get back on track after being shutdown by Farley. 
Farley vs. McGlinn 
Far!Hy and McClinn face off in the late game at tonight at 9 p.m. on the Stepan Fields with both teams looking to notch their first wins of the season. 
McGlinn is coming off of an opening day tie with Pangborn . The Shamrocks have spent a great deal of time working with the offense. 
Quarterback Nicole Benjamin's main target will be receiver Emily !Iaranin. McGlinn also wants to keep up the defensive intensity that blanked Pangborn. 
Farley looks to rebound from a disappointing 8-0 loss to B.P. Farley intends to keep up the swarming defense that shutout Farley on Sunday. 
"The offense has a better idea 
University of what it is going to take to win games," captain Jennifer Ross said. 
Pangborn vs. Cavanaugh 
Two playoff teams from last year square off tonight at 8 p.m. 
Pangborn is coming off of a disappointing tie to McGlinn and looks to regroup against 
. Cavanaugh. The Pangborn offense looks to put up some points this wer,k and hopes its defense will be able to keep up the intensity. 
Cavanaugh also looks to get back on track after an opening day loss. It needs to move the ball well on offense again, but this time it intends to capatalize on opportunities. 
According to Melissa Tacey, they need to clean up their game by stopping penalties and play well beginning to end. 
of Not1·c Dame 
International Study Program in 
' I 

·;1·:
i.i.... '~d
'•-N t•", ~~;;• .. ' ,, 
J:, 11 
~;.?"" I 
ANGERS, FRANCE 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With CARMEN NANNI, ASSISTANT DIRECTOR 
WEDNESDAY SEPTEMBER 22, 1999 
4:45 P.M. SOUTH DINING HALL -HOSPITALITY ROOM 
Returning students will be on hand to answer questions 

LAST CHANCE! .. 
CONCESSION STAND Fooo SERVICE TRAINING 
If your student group has a concession stan~ for any of the 
remaining home games, TODAY is your LAST CHANCE 
for food service certification training (which is required for 
at least 3 ofyour group members). 
$ee you tonight! 
4:00 PM· NOTRE DAME ROOM 


Wednesday, September 22, 1999 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
TOM KEELEY 
A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM

FOURTH AND INCHES 
-


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 30 Money in 60 In any way 31-Across 61 Look of disdain 
1 St. Bernard's 31 Province in 62 The "E" of bark Tuscany B.P.O.E. 
s Loud kiss 33 1ndign~tion 63 Take care of10 Air pollution 
36 Arachnid of song . 14 Victor who wrote 40 Vegetable that's 64 Shore?Irds "Les Miserables" hard to eat with 65 Medicinal a knife amount
15 California border lake 41 Rich soils 16 TV drama 42 Close DOWN length, usually 43 Engagement token 
1 Sharpen, as a17 Stocking shade knife44 Olympic prizes 18 Cell terminal 46 Football 2 "That hurts!" 
19 Old-fashioned Hall-of-Farner 3 Grimm villain letter Merlin 4 Dirty dealing 20 Saint-Exupery 49 Unbroken
lad 5 What Senators 
51 Nursery rhyme represent23 Implore 

fellow 24 Done 57 Etna output &Ray 25 Moves furtively 58 Grocery section 
7Get-of (reach by 28 Gun's recoil 59 Singer Turner 

phone) aPig Latin, e.g. 9Withhold
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~~~~~  10 Psychiatrist  .  
E  T T A P L A C E  P O P P A  11 Pitcher's place  
CHAGRINED LAR I NG  A T  L A S  12 Cup fraction 13Avarice  34 Authentic 35Goofs up  46 Young hooter 47 Sailor's time off  52 Endure 53 Unemployment  
21 Sort 22 Sum up 25 Boo-boo  37 Pancakes served with sour cream  48 Deadly sins number 49 Not so dumb  office sight 54 Metric weight 55 Signs, as a contract  
26 Paper-and­string flier  38 Charged particle 39 Like most  50 Actress Hunt  56 Repose  
27 Celestial bear  paragraphs  
28 Ivories  43 First word on a·  Answers to any three clues in this puzzle  
29 Election winners 31 For men only 32 Doctrine  "lost dog" sign 44 Lawn tools 45Samuel's  are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last  
33 Concept  teacher'  50years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.  

Visit The Observer on the Web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 


beam.1@nd.edu 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS you work with may try to cover up DAY: Tommy Lee Jones, Oliver Stone, errors that will come back to haunt Dan Marino, Scott Thompson Baker, you. Check work carefully to avoid Prince Harry such problems. Romance will be 
Happy Birthday: It's time to take yours if you socialize with friends. note oi how much you do for others 000 and what you get in return. You must LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Your start looking out for yourself first ii involvement in organizations will be you are serious about reaching your draining but rewarding. Don't let dreams and wishes. This is a year ol those who oppose your ideas stop progress and good fortune, but your you from following through with success will be directly linked to your your plans 000 ability to put yourself first. Your num­SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't bers: 5, I3, 27, 30, 35, 41 1ump to conclusions about situations 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Dubi· that are changing at work. [t is best to ous get-rich-quick schemes will get ride out the storm and be profession­you in over your head. Try to use your a\, regardless of the way things energy wisely. Exhaustion will result appear to be. 000 in ill health. It's best to put your time SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 2U: and money into self-improvement. You can pick up valuable informa­000 tion. Don't worry too much about 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): friends or relatives who insist on You'll be in the doghouse if )'OU are meddling in your. affairs. Just tell being stubborn about making them -to mind their own business. changes around your home. Compro­000 mise will be necessarv. You can't CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): always have your own way. 000 Read between the lines. Signing con­
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): It's tr acts or agreements will not be in your tum to help those less fortunate. your best interests. Emotional matters Your ability to communicate and concerning elders in your family will entertain will put you in the limelight. be upsetting. Take things one step at a You can take a position of leadership time.0000 by voicing your opinions. 000 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You'll overreact if your mate accuses Moner-making opportunities are you of domg sometlung you didn't apparent. You can come into extra do_ Try to keep the peace, and don't cash through insurance surrenders, let yourself slip into depression. It is rebates, inheritance or investments best to concentrate on getting ahead. Don'I let the money rou make slip 00 through your fingers. 00000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You must­need to channel your energy into n't neglect your household duties and your work. Colleagues will be helpful responsibilities to be with your and eager to introduce you to some­friends. Family members will one they think you'd like Mixing be extremely upset with your selfish busmess with pleasure isn't a bad attitude. 00 idea.00000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl 22): Someone 
Birthday Baby: You are quiet but knowledgeable regarding life, love and happiness. You are secretive about V<'Ur intentions and reluctant to share with others. Although you're devoted to y,,ur beli<'fs, you're not one to push them on others. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia"s Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) ( 14'N L'niwrsal Pres.,;; S~•nd1.cc1h· 

THI OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a .vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name -----------------------------­
Address ---------------------------­
City _______ State ___ Zip_____ 

t 

Hands on the Gold 
Tiger Woods. ranked No. 1 

-
in the world, looks to claim his first Ryder Cup. 
page 12

PORTS 


OTHf 
page 20 BSERVER Wednesday, September 22, 1999 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Irish need to concentrate on game, not intimidation 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Associate Sports Editor 
After a 1-0 loss to Southern Methodist University Sunday. the Notre Dame's women's 

... 
soccer team is wide awake. 
" f T h e 
lossj was a 
big wake­
up call," 
freshman 
midfielder 
a n d 
defender 
N a n c y 
Mikacenic 
s a i d 
"Everyone 
was thinking about what they needed to do personally to get better." 


The Irish problems were evi­dent long before the loss to SMU. Thev had had trouble scoring against Texas A&M, managing just one goal. In the first halves against Butler and St. John's, thev also had diffi­culty scoring. · 
The Irish problems are not a lack of talent or physical skill. The problem is they have been expecting to win games by name alone. The Irish have realized their shortcomings following the loss to SMC. 
"Since our first weekend against Carolina and Duke, we haven't played to the best of our abilities," All-American goalkeeper LaKeysia Beene there has been a bit or com­said. "We have kind of been placency." Waldrum said. relying on the fact that we are "The fact that they are Notre 
Notre  Dame  Dame,  they  
and we can come out and  "We have to prove  expected that people  
beat them in the first five minutes  ourselves each and every game."  were going come  just to out  
because they  and conced­ 
are intimidat­ed by us and they aren't  Kelly Lindsey Irish defender  ed the game to us." "There's  
ready to play."  been  so  
Relying  on  many games  
reputation led  where walk- 

to a lack of intensity, head ing onto the field wins the coach Randy Waldrum said. game for us," junior captain 
"To this point in the season, Kelly Lindsey said. "I think we with the exception of the realize now that's not the way Carolina and Duke games, it is any more. We have to 
FOOTBALL 

Walk-on Hebert achieves success 
By BILL HART Associate Sports Editor 
For Johnathan Hebert, going to Notre Dame was a dream come true. 
"I was always a big Notre Dame fan," he recalled. "But I honestly believed I wasn't going to be accepted. I told myself that if I did get accepted, though, that I was going here." 
But Hebert probably never would have expected to be in the position he is now. 
Although a walk-on split end, he has exceeded his role in helping achieve success for the team. That role has become increasingly important as time goes on. 
No one could vouch for that more than the team's most recent opponent, Michigan State. During a second-quarter possession last weekend, Hebert blocked a punt by MSU's Craig Jarrett to give the Irish the ball at the Spartans' 23-yard line. 
Last weekend's game, in which he had two tackles on special teams, was just one of the many breakthroughs he has made as a football player. 
Before I lebert got the chance to wear the blue and gold on Saturday's, he started in inter­hall football, playing for Zahm llall his freshman year. Eventually, though. he felt the calling to join the football team, from an unlikely source down the hall 
"[Playing interhall football] was really fun," Hebert 
see HEBERT/page l 5 
SPORTS 
ATA 
GLANCE 


e e 
prove ourselves each and every game." 
The loss to SMU was espe­cially shocking to Notre Dame. Dropping the Irish to 4-2 on the season, the unranked Mustangs shut out the Irish for the first time in 55 games. The only previous Irish loss on the season was to top-ranked North Carolina in double over­time. 
"I think the loss to UNC wasn't as much of a wake-up call as it should have been," Mikacenic said. "But this loss [SMU] is definitely going to put us back on the right track hopefully to a national cham­
see SOCCER/page 17 
CROSS COUNTRY 
Hildebrand leads Belle runners 
By KAREN SCHAPP 
Sports Writer 
In 1997, Saint Mary's cross­
country runner, Krista 
Hildebrand faced a tough deci­
sion. 
She had an I.T. band injury to 
her knee and spent nearly all of · that season rehabilitating. She had to decide whether to try and return to running, or sim­ply recover. She chose to run, and finished off that season running in two of the last 
meets. 
The Belles' cross country 
team is grateful for that choice. 
"Krista has this sense of' con­
fidence about her and I think it 
has grown with every 
season,"junior Genevieve 
Yavello said. "Two years ago, 
she was dealing with a major 
injury, but she is so much 
stronger, both physically and 
mentally." 
Hildebrand is one of three 
senior runners on Saint Mary's 
cross-country team this year 
and a co-captain with Yavello. 
Last year she placed 46th at 
the MIAA Championships, and 
consistently led her team at 
their meets this season. She 
placed third for the team at 
Friday's National Catholic 
Inviational, good for a 93rd 
see RUNNING/page 18 
Volleyball at Oliver College Today, 6:30 p.m. 
Golf at Hope College Sunday, 1 p.m. 





