
¦ The fourth-ranked ND hockey team takes 
¦ The U.S. Senate opened hearings yesterday on the 
Friday
on Alaska-Fairbanks in a two-game home 
imreachment case ofWilliam Jefferson Clinton. See 

series this weekend. 
ful coverage ofthe hearings inside. 

JANUARY 15, 
Sports• 24 
News• 4 

1999 
THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXII NO. 67 WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 


D.C. students attend impeachment hearings 


By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
Nrws Wrirer 
Old Man Winlnr might havn seemed han;h when lrn dumpt~d almost two fnet or snow on South Bend last wenk, but his wrath can bP -and has boon ­coldtir. 
"Thn wintor that wti'rn having is a typical South Bm1d wintPr," said Gary Siober, WNDU nrnteorologist and visit­ing profrssor or broadcast journalism at Notn: Dame. "We've been in a pat­torn for the past l l to 12 years of rnilclPr winters. For peoplo who have livnd in South Bend longer. they rnnrnmber what the big storms were like." 
Because of that mild trend, this may be the first taste in a long while of what Old Man Winter usually has in storo for South Bend. Winters like 


By BRIDGET O'CONNOR 
Washington Correspon<lenr 
Several Notre Dame students got a close look at politics Thursday when they witnessed a piece of history. 
The students, enrolled i-n Notre Dame's Washington, D.C., semester, attended the opening session of the Senate's impeachment trial of Bill Clinton. The proceedings arc the first against a presi­dent in more than 130 years. . 
"I've onlv had the hairs on the back of my neck siand up twice -once was the first time I entered Notre Dame stadium and the second was today," said junior Grant Lee. 
Lee and his fellow students braved the cold and rain for the honor of being among the first members of the public to witness the trial first-hand. Small groups of spectators were allowed into the sen­ate chambers for 15 minutes at a time to view the opening arguments -anything from the first gavel strike, remarks from Chief Justice William Rehnquist and ini-

Old Man Winter visits South Bend 
In this three-part series, The Observer explores winter weather in the area. The series will appear in this space on Fridays. 
1997-98 -relatively snowless and -three days -and Notre IJame never warm -are not the norm. according closes," Sieber said. "By comparison, to WNDU chief meteorologist Mike this time we saw 20 inches of snow." Hoffman. 
Normal snowfall for 
"Students may think South Bell(! is ,tpproxi­that the past two or matelv 80 inches dur­three winters have ing tl1.e entire winter been typical, but that's season. Though this not the case," said winter brought just 51 llofTman. inches of snow thus 
Last week's snow­far, it all came in a storm was the worst in three-week period more than 20 years, after a relatively mild setting the record for end to 1998. the most snowfall in a Hoffman attributed 24 hour period with 18 that delayed snowfall inches. But it still pales to La Nifia, or "the lit­in comparison to the tle girl," a weather blizzard of 1978, phenomenon that according to Sieber. brought warmer-than­
"We received 40 inches of snow [in norm al temperatures in early 1978), and Notre Dame was closed for December -in some cases, reaching tial statements from Jlouse judiciary committee chairman Henry llydc. 
The visit was a spur-of-the-moment decision by the group which, after tour­ing tlrn Capitol building Thursday morn­ing, noticed a relatively short lirw to gPl in. As lime passed, the temperature dropped and the lino grew bnhind them. 
"I thought it was historic and it was important for us lo be hem," said junior Maria llrvatin. "I was glad to soe a long line because it shows that 1rnoplo am interested." 
Some students, however, felt that tlrn large turnout said morn about what is lacking in public political involvmnent. 
"In a lot of ways it's so indicative of the way our political system works," said Lee. "The only time they take an internsl is when there's some kind of a scandal." 
In the more than two hours the stu­dents waited outside, reprnsentatives from news agencies around the world approached them for comments. Severitl 
see HEARINGS / page 4 

into the upper 50s. "Usually we have a warmer-than normal-Novemher when we see the 
· effects of La Nifia,'' said lloffman. "We had about a three-week delay with those effects, which brought us a warm December." A La Nifia weather pattern is charac­terized by unusually cold temperaturns in the eastern equatorial Pacific -thn opposite effect of the famed and much­blamed El Nino, which brings warmer ocean temperatures. Also called El Viejo (old man), La Nina brings cooler temperatures to the northwest and warmer temperaturns in the southeast. "La Nina is a term that we've just started using in t.he mainstream media this year," said Hoffman. "We're learn­ing that the ocean waters in the Pacific have a huge impact on the weather ­
see SNOW/ page 4 


The Observer. INSIDE Friday, January 15, 1999 



utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Snow causes first university shutdown in two decades 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 
At 2:30 p.m. on Wednesday, Ohio State shut down, because of haz­ardous weather conditions, for only the second time since 1970. 
The last time the entire OSU cam­pus shut down was in 1978, for two days due to a bliz.zard, Gerstner said. In 1994, however, OSU canceled classes, but university departments remained open, she said. 
''It was 22 degrees below zero," Gerstner said of the closure in '94. 
After the t1AWS spread Wednesday that classes had been canceled, many students flocked to busses and cars, creating congestion. 
Not everyone seemed to care. 
'Tm done for the day, so it doesn't really matter," said Robb Webb, a sophomore majoring in military his­torv. 
·r'he procedure for emergency clos­ings because of weather conditions 

• MICHIGAI\! STATE UN!VERSITY Supreme court upholds rape decision 
EAST LANSING, Mich. 
The same testimony that led the state Court of Appeals to overturn the conviction of an MSU student accused of rape will remain valid, thelMichigan Supreme Court recently ruled. Former MSU student Mjchael Ivers was convicted of third-degree criminal sexual conduct in February 1996 and served two years. The conviction was overturned by the Court of Appeals on Dec. 4, 1997 after the court allowed tes• timony from a friend of the plaintiff. The Supreme Court upheld that decision on Dec. 28, after hearing arguments. The friend testified that the plaintiff told her she was ready to have sex and had discussed getting birth control pills with her mother the day of the incident. The friend also said the plaintiff told her to "find her a guy." The alleged assault took place following a party in the 100 block of Woodmere Avenue in August 1994. Ivers and the girl allegedly went to his apartment. Ivers has already served a two-year term. 
¦ AUBURN UNIVERSITY University reprimands student editor 
AUBURN, Ala. 
Auburn's Board of Student Communications, acting as "publisher" of The Auburn Plainsman, publically reprimand­ed editor Lee Davidson for "unnecessary and inappropriate" actions. But Student Press Law Center representative Mark Goodman disputes the legality of both the Board's actions and authority. "Taking any type of punitive action against a student-press editor -both the Board and University are bringing serious legal implications on themselves," Goodman said. Federal courts have consistently ruled school officials are constitutionally prohibited from firing or repri­manding student journalists because of disagreeing view­points expressed in materials the student publishes. The res­olution's authors, Asim Masood, Will Stegall and Ching-Wei Tzeng, cite official Plainsman policy violations as the reason behind the punitive measures. "It's not like some outside group making a law about what a paper can o'r cannot do." 
~~ ..t"f0). ~ ~ a (t ~ m 
,.,,., ..~,~---·· ·:·.·;·,•:· ~::-=-­

Showers T·starms Ram Flu,;,es S~o·~ Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associafed Press Gr.aphicsNel 


involves administrative consulta­tions. The university president makes the final decision. 
OSU President William Kirwan said he decided to close the universitv because officials had declared a level three snow emergency in Delaware County and could possibly declare similar conditions in Franklin Countv. 
Under a level three snow emer­gency, travel is for bidden unless absolutely necessary and motorists could be arrested. 
¦ BOSTON UNIVERSITY University falls in foreign rankings 
BOSTON, Mass. 

Boston University lost its billing as the top American school for foreign students, a distinction it held since 1994, according to a report released last month. The report, con­ducted by the Institute for International Education, showed that New York University edged out BU to claim the highest number of international students enrolled during the 1997 ­1998 academic year. But BU administrators said this week they are not concerned about the news. The university has deliberately reduced its incoming international classes to make room for more domestic students, said Riaz Khan, assistant vice president for external programs. "Every year we decide how many domestic and international students we'd like to recruit, and for this year and last year we got the number we wanted. We aren't in any way below Ol!r target," he said. BU boasted 4,603 foreign students last year, 361 less than NYU. the report states. 
¦ PENN STATE 

Domestic benefit proposal declined 
STATE COLLEGE, Penn. 

Although there are many obstacles the lesbian, gay, bisex­
ual and transgendered community has to overcome, it is 
ready to move forward with its political agenda. Last 
Thursday, Penn State President Graham Spanier announced 
he declined a proposal from the University Faculty Senate 
for domestic partner benefits, which would guarantee bene­
fits to the same-sex partners of university employees equal 
to those offered to heterosexual couples. Despite this action, 
members of the LGBT community say they will not give up 
their quest. "I understand the LGBT community has had sev­
eral setbacks, but this is not slowing us down," Evan Chasse, 
freshman, said. "We will still fight for support for domestic 
partner benefits." Danaca Clark, sophomore, said she takes 
a positive attitude toward the failed proposal and sees it as a 
chance for the LGBT community to gain more political 
clout. 

Kirwan made his decision following a conference call on Wednesday with ot.her university administrators. 
"It just seemed wise, given the huge likelihood of absolutely terrible roads this evening and afternoon. to give [ everyone I a head start on get­ting homo,""Kirwan said. · 
The roads and grounds division is a full-time operation with crews working 12-hour shifts, said Dave Sweet, spokesman for the depart­ment of physical facilities. 
"We've spent $114,000 on snow removal since Jan. 2nd," Sweet said. 
"Our folks will be busy," Sweet said. "We will be out at 3:00 a.m. to clear the steps and sidewalks on campus," he said. 
Ruth Gersner of University Communications said some facilities remained open including Ohio State University Hospital's inpatient and emergency facilities. 
Friday, January 15, 1999 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Senior's invention places third 
By SHANNON GRADY News Writer 
Notre Dame senior Gemma Molinaro won third prize in this year's Naliomtl Student Design Comp<'tition with hOI' Clenrcut Kitchen Chopper, a device allowing the user to slice fruils and vegotahhis 1rnsily and snfdy. 
The National Housewares Manufacturors Association SJ)crnsorcd tlw 199Q National Student Design Competition. Molinaro rncHived a $1000 prizn, as well as a spot in the International Housewares Show earlier this week in Chicago. Over 60,000 ptiople from 104 countries wertl expected to attend the show to huy, sell nnd S(:out new prod· ucts. 
"Each year the designs are br.ttor and more sophisticat· nd." said Vicki Mntranga, NHMA Design Programs Coordiuo.tor. "New product design and rns0arch is the force behind our industry. Our goal is to acquaint industrial design students with the houscwaros industry." 
The show is meeting this goal. Molinaro said. 
"I must have gotten 100 business cards from design contacts," she said. ~They all offored me interviews. This is 
a great opportunity because the deidgn industry is 11Jl 
about networking." 
Molinaro's Clearcut Kitchen Chopp(~r allows the USM to push food through a tunnel while pressing the spring­action, enclos~d blade with 
'EVERYTHING I'VE DONE IS PAYING OFF, THE . 
CONTACTS I'VE MADE THROUGH THIS WILL HELP ME GET A MUCH BETI'ER JOB AFTER I GRADUATE.' 
GEMMA MOLiNARO WtNNlfR OF 1999 NA110NAL STUDHNf DESIGN COMPt'TJTJON 
the other hand. 
''I made it for those people with arthritis or limited dex,~ terity," Molinaro said... 
Other winning designs In this year's competition includ• eel the De-Fogger. an appli­ance that eliminates tortdetf! · sation on bathroom mirrors by pre-heating them, and BottleBuddy, a product that mixes powderod baby formula while heating it. 
"The students were only one 
booth inthe sllow,~ Mt)!i11ttro 
said. ffQthertbohthif irichidodt 
Rubbermaid and Black and 
Decker. All the major names 
in houst~wares were repre­
sented." · . · , 
Molinaro's interest in three• 
dimensional work led her 
from a major, in graphic. 
design to oueJn industrial arts. She cn1dits 'art professor Paul Down as an inspiration . in her ch!).nge qf major and 
current snccP.Ss. · 
"I del1nitely couldn't have 
gotten this far without him. 
fie always keeps pushing me." 
Molinaro said.. ' . ·. ·.· 
She believes that the extra 
time and effort she has invest­
ed Ul. her ¼'Ork i~ well ,oi-th 
it; and. she· encourll,ges. <>thers 
in the field of design to do the 
same, 
"~!tr~~iJ)~il'\le .de?J1J\,i~}
re<i:HX-Payfogroff;'' she: s.;,1,id ... 
"The contacts I've made 
through this will help me get a 
m~ch l>l!llJer; l9h.,~fte.r·.l,Zr{lQV,,
ate tliln l c6ull:l' have'''gotte111• otherwise." 
Molinaro won an honorable 
men~~r1Jri t~¥;~m.,f~.Stp.(l~rt ... 
Design, cornpetltfon.1\a!ft ytlli..t\• ~ 
and she was .. featured Jn .the 1998 .. Furniture D~sign Colllp.~Ution ~}?()J\J,OJJ:td.J?y.... 
Herman Millf:lt/Afornlture·· manufacturer sold .. and patented her desk design. 
<']:ID:-·, 

NEH grant aids Irish, Medieval programs 
By MIKE ROMANCHEK 
News Writer 
The National Endowment for the Humanities selected Notre Damo as one of eight universi· ties to receive challenge grants in 1999. 
Tho $450,000 grant will ben­efit The Keough Institute of Irish Studies and The Medieval Institute al Notre Dame. The money will support faculty fel­lows in both institutes as well as fund the acquisition of Northern Medieval vernacular literature, which will aid both institutes in research. 
"The Medieval Institute col­lection is unrivaled in philoso­phy, theology and education," said Christopher Fox. associate dean of the College of Arts and Letters. "If you build a major vernacular collection on top of what is already a priceless medieval collection or religion, literature and culture, in 10 to 20 years Notre Dame's collec­tion will supersede that of any Ivy League school with the exception of Harvard." 
The NEH challenge grant requires the University to raise $4 in matching funds for every NEI-1 dollar. A total of $2,250,000 will be available to the endowments. 
To meet the required funds to 
Huge Savings on all Mac & Windows Software! 
Notre Dame Students and Faculty receive up to 75% off retail prices on all software. FREE delivery on all orders until 1/25/99! ADW 1-800-333-8571 
match the grant, Notre Dame will rely heavily on the $767 million "Generations" cam­paign. Patrick Kenny, a 1964 Notre Dame graduate, recently pledged $100.000 towards the University's medieval studies library collection through "Generations." 
The NEIi will give llrn University $150,000 P.ach year f'or three years. One-third of' that mo·ney will go toward the Hesburgh Library's Northern Medieval Vernacular Literature Fund and the remainder will bn used for fellowships in The Medieval Institute and The Keough Institute. 
This marks the third and largest NEH grant awarded to Notre Dame since 1977. The first grant, worth $400,000, was used to strengthen library resources in the humanities. 
A second NEIi grant of $325,000, awarded in 1986, endowed a faculty development program in research for humanities scholars. The 1986 grant was administered by the Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts whose endowments have supported over 100 Arts and Letters faculty each year. 
This year's grant will help take Notre Dame's Medieval and Irish studies programs to the next level, hopefully increasing the programs' national and international cache. 
"!After the grant!, if we don't have the best resources for tho study of medieval culture in North America, we aro screw­ing up," said Fox. 


Every Major! Every Degree! Every Graduation Date! 
Bring you rrasume to the Sprats Heritage Hall, 2nd noorloyce Center Concourse! 


1999 Summer Internship Job Fair 
Sponsored by Career & Placement Services 
Thursday, January 21, 1999 1 :00-4:30 
Meet With Representatives From The Following Comapnies 
AIG Life Companies AMS 
AT&T 

Abbott Laboratories Abercrombie & Fitch Allegiance Corporation AllicdSignal Allstate Insurance Company American Express Financial Advisors Amoco Amway Andersen Consulting Arthur Andersen 
BDO Seidman LLP Bachrach Men's Clothing, Inc. Bank One Corporation Baxter Healthcare Corporation CIGNA CNA Insurance Companies CSG Systems, Inc. Camp Sweeney Cargill Corporate Staffing Resources Compaq Computer Corporation Davis Conder Enderle & Sloan Deloitte & Touche Discover Financial Services Eckerd Youth Alternatives, Inc. Enterprise Rent-A-Car Ernst & Young LLP Federal-Mogul Corporation Ford Motor Company General Electric General Mills Harza Engineering Hewitt Associates 

IBM 

Indiana Army National Guard KPMG Peat Marwick Legal Services of Northern Indiana MCI/Worldcom Advanced Networks McMaster-Carr Supply Company Medical Manager Midwest Inc. Meritor Automotive Minnesota Life Morningstar News America Marketing Northwestern Mutual Life Old Kent Financial Corporation Peterson Worldwide LLC PricewaterhouseCoopers Pulte Home Corporation Ryerson Tull Sears, Roebuck & Company State Farm Insurance Summit Group, Inc. Supercamp Sysco Foods 
TRW 
Target Technology Services Group Tellabs The Associates The Children's Campus The Herald United States Marine Corps United States Navy University Directories Walgreens Warburg Dillon Read 
page4 The Observer• NATIONAL NEWS Friday, January 15, 1999 
Seating plan for the Senate Trial 
Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist 
House Managers 



Hearings 
continued from page 1 
noted that they were struck by how little the foi:eign press knew about the impeachment issue. 
"They're more .interested in what our interest was than the actual impeachment," said Shawn Doyle, noting the con­trast between the foreign press' interest and that of the American press. 
After successfully passing through several rounds of security, the group was finally admitted to the observation gallery of the chamber. Seated on the back side of the cham­ber, the students were unable to see Chief Justice Rehnquist or the prosecution and defense 



ERASMUS BOOKS 
•Used 
books bought and sold 

•25 
Categories of Books 

•25,000 
Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

•Out-of-Print 
search service: $2.00 

•Appraisals 
large and small 


Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 



Impeachment hearings begin 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Before a jury of 100 silent senators, House prosecutors on Thursday demanded President Clinton's removal from office, charging he ,had "piled perjury upon perjury" and obstructed justice. Senate Republican lead­ers suggested Clinton might be invited to testify at his impeach­ment trial. ·· 
"I think he should be invited, or at least I don't have a prob­lem with him being invited," GOP Whip Don Nickles told reporters at the conclusion of the historic, six-hour trial ses­sion. Majority Leader Trent Lott also had expressed at least passing interest in the idea, Republican sources said. Lott's office declined comment. 
Inside the Senate chamber, where monumental issues of war and peace have been thrashed out for over a century, the first presidential impeach­ment trial in 131 years trial unfolded in an atmosphere or uncommon gravity. 
"Failure to bring President Clinton to account ... will cause a cancer to be present in our society for generations," asserted Wisconsin Republican James Sensenbrenner, standing in the well of the chamber to address the senators and a nationwide television audience counted in the millions. 
The nation's 42nd president was ·in the White House, preparing for next Tuesday's State of the Union address, when Chief Justice William Rehnqui~t rapped the gavel and announced that the Senate w11uld "C"onvene as a court of 


Sergeant-at-Arms James Ziglar admonished all to remain sil(•nt "on pain of imprisonment." 
Silent thny wt ·• the senators 




~ 

~&Jil'immlllnm 
Now LEASING FOR FALL 1999 
• 
Conveniently located 4 BJoeks from Campus 

• 
Student Lease Available or One Moorh free rent with a yew lease 

• 
Large 2-bedrooms fOI' under SS00.00!! 


"TU 8£Sr VALUE DI OFF CAMPUS LlvlND... 
ProfessionaUy managed by Real &talc Management Corp. 234-9923 
at their seats; those spectators lucky -or influential ­enough to have space in the galleries above; the president's lawyers and House prosecutors seated around separate cus­tom-made curved tables at the base of the rostrum and Rehnquist, presiding in his judi­cial robe. 
With the exception of two brief breaks, the trial remained in session until after dark as a string of House Republicans laid out their evidence. They buttressed their presentation with nurnetous images of Clinton on videotape, many of them of his testimony before Independent Counsel Kenneth Starr's grand jury. 
"It depends upon what the meaning of the word 'is' is," Clinton was seen to say in one snippet, a now-famous utter­ance that his critics have seized on as evidence or legal hair­splitting -or worse. 
The prosecutors repeatedly used the word "conspiracy" to describe Clinton's efforts to thwart court proceedings against him, making the argu­ment that senators should hear from witnesses, Monica Lewinsky, presidential friend Vernon Jordan and Oval Orlice Secretary Betty Currie among them. 
White House spokesman James Kennedy attacked the Republican case even as it con­tinued. It is "both unsubstantial and circumstantial," he said. "We look forward to presenting our defense based on the facts, the law and the Constitution." . 
Senators sat attentively at their desks throughout the day, but there was no indication that any of the evidence had shaknn the support Clinton has amor:J Democrats. 
"Frankly, I don't think them was anything new from any of' the House" speakers, said one, Sen. Byron Dorgan of North Dakota. · 

Sensenbrenner's Midwestern monotone belied the gravity of the moment. The Founding Fathers wrote impeachment into the Constitution as a way of reining in a corrupt chief executive, but their script has been played out this far only once before -in the case of Andrew Johnson, who was acquitted by a single vote in 1868. · 
As the day wore on, prosecu­tors moved methodically through the minutiae of the case. Rep. Asa Hutchinson of Arkansas, for example, led sen­ators through a series of time­lines that cross-referenced tele­phone calls by the president with actions taken by other principals in the case, evidence, he said. of a frantic effort on the chief executive's part to keep his relationship with Monica Lewinsky under wraps. 


RESPECT LIFE WALK 
Join us Sunday in the Right to Life Family Walk in Downtown South Bend starting at the Knights of Columbus Council: 553. E. Washington. 
2:00 p.m. Please Bring baby items to donate at Knights of Columbus Council 
2:30 p.m. Century Center -Bendix Theater Respect Life Program Dr. Joel Brind Ph.D of Paugh Keepsic. N.Y., Main Speaker. Topic: "Connection between abortion and Breast Cancer.'' Featured on IV. and Radio Networks CNN, CBS, CBC, NPR, and ABC. Articles in Newsweek, U.S. News &World Report. Bring your Friends 4p.m. resfreshments at Knights of Columbus Council -553 E. Washington Abortion is Child Abuse-Murder in the Womb 

The Natural Choice is Life Sponsored by the 
IfRuigl1t1:1 of <:!Iolmnhus 
Michiana Councils 



Friday, January 15, 1999 C0MPILl:iD FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
¦ WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Elephants arrive in Germany 
I.FWZIG. Gnrmanv 
Stwnn baby (dtqihants destined fo~· f!11rorwan zoos arriv,,d Thursday in t;nrniany, ckspik protests stnmming l'rom allt\gations IIH'Y WPrti abuspd in South Africa after being t·apt11rnd. Environment Minister Jurgen TriLlmi and animal rights activists began prolnsting tlw shipmnnt aftnr a South African judgl' nrlt'd in Dc!Ct'mlwr that :~o baby ule­pliants Wtlfll dPprivnd of' water at tho llotswa11u 1'1tr111. Tim judge granted tempo­rnry l'.Ustody of' 2:l animals to tho National Socidy for llw l'rnvnntion or Cruelty to Animals lrnt approvPd tlw export. of seven ­l.lws1l tbut arriwd in Germany on Thursday. A (:ourt overrulc•d Triltcln's attempt to block t.lw import of' tlw nlt'phants to protest Lim allPgctl t:ruf'lty. (;ornrnny's Animal Priitoct.ion r\sso . '.ialion said Thursday's 40·hour !light from South Africa was cruPI since tho clu­plia11ts w.-n• smlatnd fhr tlrn journny. 
Impatient driver loses temper 
WEST PALM BFACII, Fla. 
A woman alhigPdly pundrnd another dri­VPr and puslrnd lwr into Lral'lic bm:ausn she stopp(•d inst1iad of trying to boat the light. Wlwn Lisa V1idovPlli, :l l, stopped al a busy i11lPl'St•ctiDn T11t~sday as tlrn light was chang­in.l{ f'rom ydlow to rPd, tlw drivtir bnhind her, Charlt•llf• Ca11al1is, 2(i, scrnanrnd and honked, polic1i_said. Canales allegNHy got out of her van, walkc•d up to Vndovelli's car and pundwd lwr. CanalPs then bnnt !rnr license plat!• to prnvPnt Vndovnlli from reading it and puslwd lwr in front ol' a car, which ran over lwr foot, police said. Vedovelli was trnatmt al a hospital and rnllrnsed. Canales was diargd with aggravated battery and n-lc•as1id 011 $5,000 bail. She did not immedi­atdy rt•turn a call for comment Thursday. 
Judge sentences men in 
golf course duck-slaying 

FAB.M1NGTON IIILLS, Mich. 
Two nwn got 30 clays in jail and two months in boot camp for beheading a duck with a golf r.lub. "Every time wn think we sen it all. wt•rP shockod," Circuit .Judgn Barry lloward said Wed1wsday. "This defenseless animal was killt•d and tlwre is no rhvme or rPason for ii. Anyone who could do thi~ could t•asily ••scalaln such acts to people." Bradley Woons, 2], and MidHwl Prasher, 22, wern also givt1n thrPe y1)ars' probation and orrlt•rPd to urHfPrgo 11rnnlal hnalth trnatment and pt!rl'orm 100 hours of' community servicn at an animal siwltor. A.l'tm· playing some golf Snpl. I, tlw 1111111 us('(I crumbs to lure a duck from a pond. Woons grabbnd thn bird and h1dd it while !'rasher used a nine-iron to slirt\ off its hPad. Tlwy plnaded guilty lo rnalir.iuusly killing an animal and could hav1~ goltPn live yPars in prison. 
Market Watch: 1/14 
Dow 
AMEX: 
61>8.16
]ONES 
.J.2J Up; Nasch1q:



9120.93 9(13 
2276.82 

-39.99 

NYSE: 
Down:
581.07 
2161
.l) 65 
S&P 500: 
1212.19 

C11n1p11sile
·22.21 
Volume:

-228.63 1,012,270,800 VOLUME LEADERS 
t,OLIIFN lUH)K_-. I•,\~\  GIH·t:  +1!'12-,!-I  -tl.llHJi  1.'l'Ml7~  
\I)\' \ft('R.iJIW\'it'E 11'\''lt:l,COIW  -\\Ill l~TC'  -Ul.'Jl -J,1N  -~.'.!;li!M) -~.t.i:110  ?2.~ ll.1.15  
l'IM'OSYS'IL:\b  {'S('O  1-ll,!i:Z  tO.!iU11tl  ilt'l-175  
'1''1 \'tOMI.IWO,t I~('  \\'('0\1  .J,117  -l-'07~  71.00  
l"ll-:N.\ ('OHi"  {'11':N  . ?,$~  -1-l,.~ll~  IN.Nl1$  
\l'l'H. ('0\11'1 1 1:i-:H. ..,,,NW AS'i llt•I' ,u<·:tH>~<wr nrnr ,\\Uk 01\LlN•:  AAl'L lt1\'i'\ \l~ttf AOL  •ILU2 .. l.\,7,l -1,4,1 ,0.~I  -~.JBO +L.1~ml -z.nril!'i .0.1,uo  ofl.J75 lJ.U.i: 1-u.1!11 MSJM.1  


AssocIATEO PRESS could not be reached for comment. But fire was scheduled to begin Monday. Ivory Coast's foreign minister, Essy According to Oke!o, rebel leaders am ABIDJAN Amara, said on lvorian state television demanding to speak with their impris­
After a month of furious attacks Thursday that Kabbah is prepared to oned founder, Foday Sankoh, this against Sierra Leone's cities and towns, release Sankoh if the rebels end hostili­weekend and insisting on his release the country's feared rebel alliance is ties and abide by certain other condi­next week. prepared for a cease-fire, .rebel and tions. "This message has been convoyed to 
U.N. ollicials said Thursday. Amara, who took part in negotiations President Kabbah and them will be fur­
But it was unclear whether President in Guinea's capital on Wednesday ther consultations before we know if it Ahmed Tejan Kabbah's democratically­involving Sankoh and Sierra Leone gov­is a genuine development," Okelo said. elected government or the Nigerian-led ernment officials, did not reveal the An earlier cease-lire proposal col­coalition force fighting in its defense other conditions. lapsed last week after rebel field com­support the proposal, U.I\'. special Already there was confusion over manders rejected the proposal. envoy Francis Okelo said. when the break in the fighting would Sankoh, who remains the rebel 
Okclo said the Nigerian-led force had begin and how long it would last. Hevolutionary United Front's inspira­apparently taken control of Freetown Coker said the cease-fire was set to tional leader although he has no daily after several days of fierce fighting. begin at 6 p.m. local time (1 p.m. EST) contact with thorn, has been impris­
Martin Coker, an aide to rebel com­on Saturday. Rut Okelo said Bockarie oned in a sncrot location since he was mander Gen. Sam Bockarie, declined to told him that his troops planned to end convicted of treason and mass murder give details or the cease-lire plan. ITe hostilities on Monday -and then only in October. spoke by telephone from an undisclosed for a seven-day period to allow civilians If' both sides lay down their arms, it location in Sierra Leone. to get out of harm's way. would end a round of fighting that 
Officials in Kabbah's government Amara also said the proposed cease-began in mid-December. 

.Pentagon confident.about Y2K problem 
A"iSOCIATED PJJESS President Clinton had ly. he in a category of nui­that affect the U.S. nuclear 
askedall governme:nfagen:• saJJC¢," he said. 'Tm very arsenal, he said. 
WASHINGTON chis to ffla(Jb the 100 per-confident we won't have • Hamre said that in 
All computer syst(lltls cent ready. mark hffyfarclt ; lllajor J)rohlems;" December tho North deemed critical to U.S. 1999, The De(!;l1ise · Thl:i Y2K problem begins American Aerospace national defense, incJuding Oepartmentwill be at t!,t~ when coruputers try to add Defens~~ Command, or those ihat wa.m of a. missifo ?S percentmark by tben/ 01: subtractdates using·only NORAD, ran a throe-day attack. will be safo from Hamre said. · · · the last two digits of tho series of about 30 simulated glitches many expect whon The Def~n$el)epartment · year ,,.;... 00 in the case of missile aUM'.ks to ensure 1999 lurns to 2000, "went into hyperddvc'' witb 2000-;-which n:tay confuse that its Y2K-complinnt com­Defense Department offi~ its Year 2000, or Y2K, work ~mputers Into reading the puter systems would run dals said Thursday. after realizing last Augiist .date as 1900, Lu.rger, older properly in providing attack 
''We will be 100 percent that it was moving too slow-mainframe computers used warning and assessment. ready by the end of the ly in: preparing the approxi~ ·· by government and big cor­''In every case the sys­year,'' Deputy Defense mately 2,300 crucial com, ·.porations fol' many vital tems worked as designed," Secretary John Hamrn sit.id puter systems, Hamr~ said : functions are particularly lH1 said. in anuouncing that as of In aH, the Penta.gon has · vulnerable. Some individual nuclear Dec. 31, J998 the Pentagon about 10,000 computer sys• The bill for fixing the systems, including Trident had certified that 81 per0 terns. Pentagon's compuhws and submarines carryi11g cent (If' umission crH!cal" Hamre said minor glitch~ testing them wUl reach $2.5 nuclear-tipped interconti­computer systems wcr_e es are likely to crop UP rm billion, Hamre said, nental ballistic missilns. ready for tho arrival of . Jan. 1,"2000. .·· •·.. . . . . Special attention is being already are certlt'iod as 2000, · "I think it's goi.11g to c:foart, given computel' systems roady fol' 2000, ht1 sa.id. 
page 6 

The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS 
Friday, January 15, 1999 


The Observer/Job Tumer 

thaw happens when an arctic high pressure system over 
track to move through Alaska:, Canada and the central U.S." 
But for South Bend, lake­effect snow compounded the problem of heavy La Nifia bliz­zards, Lake-effect snow occurs when cold air moves over an unfrozen lake and gathers moisture that falls to the ground as snow. Northern Indiana and eastern Michigan -places near to Lake Michigan -bear the brunt of it. 
"We've seen 15 to 16 days in a row of straight snow accumu­lation," said Sieber. "While the system itself was responsible for 18 inches of the snow, an additional 6, 8, 10 inches come from lake effect snow." 
Warmer air is expected to move into the region Saturday, Hudson Bay moves to the east, and an upper high pressure system takes its place. We'll have to see if the arctic high gets re-established." 

Hoffman also foresees a cold winter ahead. 
'Tm not saying we'll have another snowstorm, but the pattern will come back," he said. "Overall, because of La Nina, we can expect overall to be in a fairly cold weather pat­tern. possibly slightly colder than usual, for the remainder of the winter." 
But, Sieber said, it's still nor­mal for this region. 
"People in Buffalo get this all the time," he said. "To them, it's no big deal." 
Established 1965 
Diamonds Engagement Rings & Wedding Bands 18karat Yellow Gold & Platinum. 
~ 

· Thinking ofpurchasing a diamond? 
Choose wisely with information in our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, 186 pages, 2nd edition, hardbound. 
~ 

John M. Marshall 
Jeweler / Gemologist / Mineralogist 
Telephone: 287-1427 . . Monday -Friday, lOa.m. to 6p.m. KeyBank Building, Suite #101, South Bend, Indiana 46601 

We'll Pay You to MEET YOUR NEW PERSONAL BANKER t 1st Source is your source for Internet banking! .,.,. _.. Now your ?:C,:C99'l'.JJ:ip.fotmation ~~~-c.. is just a 1f with 1st Source -r-..___ --Direct Access information on: • balances • interest rates • payments and transactions You can also: • transfer funds • pay bills • and much 1nore. The future offinancial services is here now, and with 1st Source you can batl.k.c:m it! Visit our web site today at www.lstsource.com and check out lst'~~ritce Bank's full range of products and services. '1\/~,}'c)h,,.-·;w'·«··w.", ',;;..:''" 'J for an Internet demonstration at the 1st Source ATM in the I • ······ ·... of the Hesburgh Library on: January 19th and 20th ''l"J<?itij~;qetween T 1 :00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. ,::, ..;~f-·'!§i' ~~· ,::t.\W.\t"·w... ·•,,.:At _.. We'll gi · ar~Ckjust for stopping by to see for yourself how secure;slmpleian • u.ick Internet banking is.~ We'll give you three;: •,, lst Source Direct Internet service FREE. :&D•ce~"·nk f,w~s;,o,-w..r,® MEMBER FDICwww.1stsource.com  





Friday, January 15, 1999 page 7 
¦ SECURITY BEAT . TUES., JAN. 12 Injuries reported.
MON., JAN.11 · 

1:20 a.m. 8:55 p.m. A visitor was transported to
2:47 p.m. Security responded to a two-car transported by Security 1¢ St. Joseph Memorial Hospital tor treatment of injuries
accident on Juniper Road. A passenger Medical Center lor. treatment of Injuries 9:20 a:111:$GCl!dty'responded lo a two-oar austained during a fall at the Joyce Center
reported minor Injuries. f~I. a®lde~t}in Artgela Blvd. There were no Ice Rink.
3:40 p.m. Security transported an O'Hara sustained during a fall. 
7:30 p.m. A Pasquerilla Ea&t resident lnJvr! ·• • rted:
Grace resident to the University Health 10:23 a.m. Security transported a University employee to the University reported the theft of her book bag lrom the 11 ;45 ; SecurlJy responded to a two-
Center for treatment of a sports Injury. Health Center for treatment of Injuries sus, south Oining Hall. Her bookl>ag was left ear a~1dl/M on SA9$3. There were no 
.foi tre1.1tment of injuriel',i sustained during a 

Saint :M:ary's College Notre Da.ni.e 
26TH ANNUAL 
LONDON SUMMER PROGRAM 
MAY 19TH -JUNE 18TH, 1999 
Courses offered in History, Education, Biology, Philosophy and International Business. 
For further information contact: 
Professor David Stefancic Professor Tom Parisi 54 Madeleva Hall, Room 347 37 Madeleva Hall, Room 152 Saint Mary's College Saint Mary's College Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 284-4462 (219) 284-4S29 dstefanc@saintmarys.edu tparisi@saintmarys.edu 
Fax: London Summer Program (219) 284-471& 

GET MONEY FROM YOUR UNCLE INSTEAD. 
Your Uncle Sam. Every fees. They even pay a flat rate year Army ROTC awards for textbooks and supplies. scholarships to hundreds of You can also receive an allow-talented students. If you anceofupto$1500eachschool 
qualify, these merit-based  LE:ADERSH1p  year the scholarship is in  
scholarships can help you  effect.  Find out today if  
pay tuition and educational  .,.,..~,  you qualify.  


ARMY ROTC 
THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE 
For details, visit Room 217 Pasquerilla Center or call 
631-6265 
Cell phones to be banned at pumps 
Associated Press "As far as corporate-wide, 
we're still looking at what we 
People do it everywhere ....;.. should do," she said. pull into a gas station and take There has never been a report out a cell phone to make a call. of fire sparked at a gas station 
But Esso, an Exxon Corp. sub­because of a cell phone. sidiary, wants drivers in Finland "Several years ago there was to make their calls far away a report of that happening to a 
from the pumps. Exxon itself is woman in Australia and then on mulling over the idea on a com­further investigation it turned pany-wide scale. out she was smoking," saidTim 
The problem is that some Ayers, spokesman for the experts believe electronic Cellular Telecommunications impulses from a cellular phone Industry Association. 
could help ignite fires if gasoline According to experts, the or gas fumes are present. Now, impulses from mobile phonesthat hasn't happened yet, but could theoretically cause equip­
Esso would rather be safe than ment at gas stations to spark sorry -so mobile phones will and ignite gas or gas fumes. be prohibited at its stations in Moreover, "there has been Finland by the end of the month talk, although no proof', that 
and the ban may be expanded to radios could interfere with wiru­other countries. less systems that are built into 
Exxon spokeswoman Lynn the pump. That is one of the Russo said she's not sure why concerns that has been raisod the ban is being imposed in over the last rew years," said 
Finland first, but the fact that an Norman Sandler. director of 
estimated 56 percent of Finns global strategic issues for have cell phones may have Motorola, the largest maker of incre·ased worries about the cell phones. 
potential hazards. "We went through this with 
The ban is mandatory in Shell in Europe a few years agoFinland, but in other parts of the and we concludud that the radio world, "some of the affiliatus are signals did not pose any dangerputting signs in the service sta­at gas stations," he said, 
tions," Ms. Russo said. Still, the possibility that a dan­
The spokeswoman said Irving, ger could be lurking at the Texas-based Exxon has not yet pump has led to some rules. decided whether to also post In Britain, cell phones are not signs banning the usr. of cell to be used at gas stations, said phones al stations in the United Megan Matthews, a spokns­
States. woman for Nokia. 

. . -----. --------. 
page 8 The Observer. PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, January 1S, 1999 
Joel Brind, Ph.D. 

"11ze Link Between Induced Abortion and Breast Cancer,, 
Saturday, January 16th, 1999 
4:00pm 
Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Dr. Brind is a Professor of Endocrinology & Biology at Baruch College of the City University of New York. His research, focusing on the links between reproductive hormones and human disease, has been featured in several medical journals and in the national media. 
__________________,_____________________ 
Friday, january 15, 1999 The Observer. INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
+ Campus Ministry This Week+ 
II 
¦ 
[ii] [ii] 

[Ii] 

omcwc, 
C.U1fl"UI MINltTI.Y 

IHttQ 
••rltr10fflt":
,:11.-..s
...~,.,.. 
lltr,H-w•.11•.a4..J~MIN1ft) 

Fridiiy-Soturrlax, lanuary 15-)6. St Joc Ha.ll 
MBA Retreat 

Satun,lay !anuuy 16 sr (PC Han 
NDE #54 Team Retreat 
Sunday raouory iz St loe Holl Freshman #20 Team Retreat 
Sundai'<J~ouary 17, 11-45 a.m Ba3ilica of the Sacred Heart 
Confinnation-Rlte of Welcome 
'!l,1• Sunday w• will rll«lgnli• th,..,mcmbm of th, Notrr Dom• community who will rf<¥i,,.. the, S.erom,nt of Ccnllrm<II Ion this Sprlnfl, Th••• mm ond w<>m<n h,wv ti.en ~admlng tos•th,r for -eral months to 1xplcrt nnd Ill d••p•n !heir Catholl< '•*th. M~nN pr"y f4.,r thut candidate• H they c:onllnu• their fnith jnurneyM. 
We welcome the following candidates; l<•lly ,'\ndrowl C111ondrn Bolz O.rrl<~ llravo c-y Bum, Jo11•ph Ct>llln, uura Clc,llnMori• M•1h•n D,vlne M<ghaTI Doyl• 
Ank,nto Duarte.· Brtndon Erin l<&1hl1•n F•nn1ng Orn,,11 Core•• Mell... C.n:la M,,u-G1trido CoU-.n Gough,~ liynn Coul Andrt• c;,,ni,tet 
Chrlstorher Gonui., Carohr.t Cr•dy ic...1n H•lty 
Marlin H<rn:rn Kate J•II Jaaan )ardrn 
],wn Krith 

Ry&n l<uchlOT M••gh1n l.cahy Juon l.t\11'\,g M,rrtu, M•t• Sl,anr M«lot1<gl< 
Sh;iyMd.,,11 )&,lu, Mlllrr j,.li• Moncau,uki ),,..ph Naf"\Ji!,l:"' Chrlot"l'her O'Moll<y KA!h1rtntOr1tga fosoph r,•an, 
O,ri>line Puhlm•n Git, Pull,p!lly fn•I<• rm,.,11 Jaclyn Rty-Hlpol!lu Dane Rodrlgi,n Chrl•tln., ltMd< <;,,n Thom,s Rylm Neal S.,11,l~n Fr4nctsro S1nMnl )uHph Sllwytr St,phPn M,tthtw ~ll•<hl Mo1L.,.•S1m, a,11,tophtr $1nnott Thnmns Studel>oker M1rg1n,I Stotz 
'l\ma!hy Sullivan ~nSwttney 
t<attwrtne Tnr!'4'nCi.\ Albu! Vl!t,r ,;,Uy Willlruru 
Bcstnc1o& M<mday J1nuary 18 
10,3 Hesbm:~h Llbnuy 112 Badin Hal!. or"" your o:ctor 
Freshman Retreat #21 (Febm,uy 12.13) Sign-Up 
'Tilrg,ted (),.,tmt: Cam,ll. Cava1uugh, Dlllnn,, Lcw.s. M(Cllnn, r_,~,t,nn,, Siegfried, Sorin, and Zahm 
A Celebration in Honor of Dr, Martin Luther King, Jr. The Norm of Greatness: Daring to Seek the Truth Monday, (Rnuacy 16 7 pm ,I,aFortune Ba)lroom 
Thtalrica/ Portra!/111 of Dr Ki11g by liclor Darryl Va11 L~er 
Wcdnc;,do)'.. lonunr)' 10, 8 ~.m X1·1moo-Stoofgcd Cbopcl 
Prayrr ServK:e. a 8iblical l'erspalill<' 
Thursday. Innu~n: 21, 6:0012,m,. Lafruhme Ballroom 
D111logur rvllh 1111dtrrtpr(smltd stwrltnls 011 thtir ND txptric11ce 
¦ AUSTRALIA 
World balloon ride cancelled 
Associated Preu 
ALICE SPRINGS 
A joint U.S.-Australian 
attempt to clrcumnavi-­
gate the globe in a high-
altitude helium b.alloon 
was canceled, Friday, but 
may be attl'!mpted agatn: 
in December... 
·T!.H\m ,Re/Ma,,' ,s,~td' · 
,;w,eatMr , · , : Jc}r~P ·· 
,showoo w!atis,cwoul.. 
:too ,h!gh lu! ·a:. t:a,u~
fron:qhe tea1n ~ Al • 
\Springs . .. site .:, befo'r.e(J~t,,J)enver,real estate mag­Bu~_day's ~t~~l,tne":£1r th~Ji§;;. (i~t~. l>p.}Ni J;,iniger a?d 
proJect. .. 1 • · , .Australian balloonist 

¦ IRAO 

The team said it plans 
to return to the site in 
December for another 
attempt. 

The balloon launch, 
already delayed nearly three weeks due to a variety of weather prob­leml? and technical glitch­. i,s, was to have begun a J1?".',r~~Y;~xp~cte,d to t~ket~ t;o,,lB. (lays and. hrmg · wo,pil~ts<back to .. ,~tif,t\'igs~ in the 
ustraliai:1 outback, 
Save up to 75% on Mac & Windows Software! 
Notre Dame Students and Faculty receive up to 75% off retail prices on all software. FREE delivery on all orders until 1 /29/99! ADW 1-800-333-8571 
.John Wallington hop1~d to succeed by rising to 24 miles above the Earth, above normal weather po.tturns. 
"We have learned a gn~at doal about this kind of effort," Liniger said. "We'll be doing some rtidosign and come hack this December." 
At the news conference in AJice Springs, tho team said sormi of its prohloms arose because in an effort to cut costs, they had accepted donntod equip­ment that was too bulky. 

U.S. proposes new Iraq aid 
WASIIINGTON 
The United States today proposed removing a U.N. ceiling on Iraqi oil sales provided the proceeds are used to purchase food and other humanitarian sup­plies for the Iraqi people. 
Calling on Iraq to take advantage of the exemp­tion to a 9-year-old U.S. Security Council trade embargo, State Department spokesman .James P. Hubin said the process for approving contracts for food and medicine would ho made virtually automatic. 
The U.S. proposals am designed partly to counter a campaign by Baghdad of accusing the United States of starving the Iraqi people through its support of economic sanc­tions. 
Iraq is permitted to sell $5.2 billion worth of oil every six months provided the proceeds are used to purchase food, medica­lions and other humani­tarian supplies. 
That ceiling would be lifted if the U.S. proposal were accepted by the Security CounciL But it would not assure a better life for Iraqi children, pregnant women, nursing mothers and the elderly. According to U.S. oflicials, Iraq has kept largo sup­plies of food and medicine in storehouses, refusing to distribute them to the needy. 
RECYCLE THE OBSERVER 

FELLOWSHIP.
LEADERSHIP.
SERVICE. 

JOIN CIRCLE K 
SUNDAY, JANUARY 17TH, 7 PM CUSHING AUDITORIUM 
HTTP://WWW.ND.EDU/ ~CIRCLEK 
VIEWPOINT 
page 10------------------------
------------------~Friday, January 15, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar. Notre Dame. IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOJI-IN-CIIIEF He-alher Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BusrNF.SS MANAGER Brian Reinrhaler KyleC,rlin 
A.ssrSTA,,T MANAGING EDITOR Heather MacKenzie 

NcWS fa>ITOR ........................ Michelle Krupa AoVliRTISING MANAGER...................... Bryan Lrn, V!EWPOINf EDITOR ..................Eduardo Llull Av DESIGN MANAGER ........................Brcct Hc1da1 SPORTS EDITOR ..... . .... Ka1hlecn Lope, SYSTEMS MANAGER .... . ......Michael Brouillet SCENE EDITOll!i........................... Sarah Dylag CoNTRoLLER .....................................Dave Rogero 
Kri~ri Klirsch Wrn ADMINISTRATOR...................Allison Killa SAINT MARv's EDITOR .......M. Shannon Ryan GRAPHICS ED1TOR ............................... Pc1~ Cilella PHOTO EDITOR , . . ........ Kevin D,1lum 
The Observ~r Is rhe indcpendcnr ncwsp-.&(Xr published by rhe srndems of rhe University of Nurre Dame du Lt, :111d S.iint Mary's College. It does not necrss.ardy rdlccr the policies of thca1dminjsrrdrion ofClther institution. The nC'V!-'S is 
rq,orr~d as JCL"llr.irely and objeaively ;tS po.•;sib~. Unsigned l!diroriah represent 1f-ie opinion nf rh~ m:1joriry of Ehl" Editor~in-Chief. M;1naging Ednor, Assistant M:anagin~ Editor and dep.urmem editors. Commenr,uies, leucrs anc.l columns prl"Sfflt rhe vit">'v'S of rhe authors, ;md not necrss;uily rhosr nfThe Observer. Viewpofnr span• is ,wai!Jble wall meruben of the Notre 0.1me/5.tinc M,uy's ,ommunhy .u1d lU di! rc-.d.ers. The free expr~ion of v;uying opinion.> 
through lettt't"S is encour.1~e<l. 

Contacting The Observer 
Ediror-in-Chier  6.~ 1-4542  Business Orficc  631-5313  
Man,gingEditoriA..sistantME  631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
Nows/Phoro  631-5323  SyStems  631-8639  
Sports  631-4543  Fox  631-6927  
Scene/Saint Mary's  631-4540  Viewpoim E-Mail  Viewpoint .1@nd.edu  
Day EdimrNiewpomt  631-5305  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc. nd.ed u  
OfliceManager/Genetal Information  631.7471  News E-Mail  observe1.obmews. l@nd.edt1  


¦ RIGHT OR WRONG? 

Why Big Ten? It's All about the Money 
"If Notre Dame joins the CIC and the Big Ten, there is no turning back. This would change the University," said author Murray Sperber, a member of the Indiana University faculty. "I would vote against it 

Charles Rice 

in a millisecond, because I value under­graduate education," said Sperber. "For all the lip-service paid to undergraduate education in (Big Ten) schools, the emphasis is clearly on research and development." --
Sperber is right and the Faculty Senate (no surprise) is wrong. The Senate voted 25-4 to urge the Universfry to join the Committee on Institutional Cooperation [CIC], the consortium of the eleven "Big Ten'.' schools, the University of Chicago and the University of Illinois at Chicago. The CIC move is a working out of Notre Dame's 1978 definition of itself as a "Research University." That research focus was itself a result of the Land O' Lakes Declaration of 1967 in which the major Catholic universities declared their "autonomy in the face of authority of whatever kind. lay or clerical. external to the academic community itself." Notre Dame substituted for loyalty to the Church a deference to the authority of the secular academic establishment. The heavy hitters in that establishment are the "research" universities which have their feet in the trough of government and corporate subsidies. "Research" is where the money is. 
Until 1978, Notre Dame's mission had focused on Lhe education of undergrads in the Catholic tradition. with research and graduate studies playing a balanced and complimentary role. It was a point of pride for Notre Dame that its education was accessible to nonwealthy students. To join the CIC would signal the final demise of that Notre Dame. 
The important symbiotic relation between research and teaching was a component of education at Notre Dame before its attachment, as a Research University, to the government and corpo­rate money spigot. The Faculty Senate Committee, however, states that "joining the CIC ... would change our benchmark ... The standards of the CIC would become the ... standards by which we and others would assess Notre Dame ... [We need to redouble our efforts at the graduate level or face second class status." The Committee notes that "the small size of our graduate and research programs and the absence of a medical school hurts us." 
In the CIC, Notre Dame undergrads would be, in the words of the Carnegie Foundation's Boyer Commission, "second­class citizens who are allowed to pay taxes but are barred from voting, the guests at the banquet who pay their share of the tab but are given leftovers." Already, in today's Notre Dame, under­grads are shortchanged. Of the 240 100­level courses in Arts and Letters, 60 are taught by "student instructors" and 47 are taught by "non-regular" faculty; this does not include the 67 labs and tutorials, 63 of which are taught by "student instructors." The real faculty are too busy with research to bother with such cours­es. As one administrator conceded, when Notre Dame became a Researr,h University, "teaching loads were reduced so faculty could do more research." We are developing a two-tiered faculty: important researchers who sometimes teach, and peons who primarily teach. 
In 1978-79, Notre Dame's undergrad 

tuition, room and board totaled $5,180. If 
it had kept pace with inflation. as mea­
sured. by the Consumer Price Index, the 
1998-1999 total would be $13,006. For 
1998-99. the total increased 5.7 pcm,nt 
over the previous year, more than double the rate of inflation, to $26,250. Undergrads are paying, in effect, an annual tax of about $13,000 to fuel the research enterprise. Notre Dame serious­ly tries to lighten the burden with finan­cial aid. But the primary form of "finan­cial aid" is student loans. Over four years, a nonwealthy undergrad can potentially add $52,000 to the loan burden he would have had if Notre Dame had not doubled its real cost to pursue a reputation for Research Greatness. In 1978-79, by the way, Notre Dame's endowment was $118 million. In 1998-99, it exceeds $1.8 bil­lion. 
The stated reasons for joining the CIC are peripheral. CIC membership "would offer the most tangible benefits to the library," says· the Committee. However, the Notre Dame "library already has access to ... the libraries in the CIC ... Similarly, the library ... does purchase material through various consortia. What we do not have is a default consortium." 
Don't kid yourself. The reason for join­ing the CIC is money. As reported by the National Research Council's most recent 1995 report, Notre Dame's average annu­al expenditure for scientific and engineer­ing "Research and Development" from 1986-92 was $16,835,000. The lowest reported expenditure in the CIC, the University of Illinois, was $72,878,000. The highest was Wisconsin's $266,703,000. As Notre Dame Vice­President James L. Merz said, "If we com­pare ... ouF programs to peer institutions that rank above us.... faculty ... at those institutions train more graduate students ... and are able to bring into their institu­tions more extramural research dollars. ... [T]hey are more productive, ... than Notre Dame's faculty ... lllfwe are to improve both our graduate and under­graduate reputations, the University must ... add to its rac·ulty and increase their overall scholarly productivity, while insisting /on} the highest standards of 
quality." Joining the CIC would provide 
an excuse for Notre Damo to play catch­
up in spending, with primary benefit to the researching faculty and our striving administrators who could then meet as equals with the leaders of the University of Illinois Chicago Campus. 
The move to join CIC' is an other-direct­ed and hopefully lucrative exercise in cur­rying the favor of the power brokers of the secular educational establishment. "The two most significant measures of a research university," said the Committee, "are its classification in the Carnegie Classification System and membership in the Association of American Universities (AAU). All [members] of the CIC are Irated as] 'Rl' institutions and [are] members of the AAU. Notre Dame is [rated lower as) 'R2' ... and is not a member of the AAU." 
"Membership in the CIC," said the Committee, "Might enhance our chances of becoming a member of the AAU. Ifwe make ... progress in our graduate and research programs, we might discover allies in the presidents of the CIC institu­tions who could lobby for us ... [M]ember­ship in the AAU ... means a great deal to those who control the power of American higher education." Could you ever imag­ine Father Sorin speaking in such terms? 
Joining the CIC would further erode the Catholic character of Notre Dame. For the past decade and more, new faculty hires of Catholics have been well below fifty percent. The percentage of Catholics on the faculty is at 56 percent and headed south. The expansion of graduate research pursuant to "standards of the CIC" would hardly reinforce the Catholic aspecl'> of of Notre Dame which primarily inhere in its undergrad programs .. 
The Faculty Senate acted in what they saw as the best interests of Notre Dame . The issue, however, is whether Notre Dame will conclusively abandon what remains of its identity as a student-cen­tered Catholic university . 
Prr{f. Rice is on the Law Schoo{Jaculty. His column appears every other Friday. 
The views expressed in this column are those oflhe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
GARRY TRUDEAU
¦ DOONESBURY 

¦ Quon OF THE DAV 

"ANfl IF GO, HOtVC'alUl WA7UX!r 
YOU GU'ft.7 RJ9.3/81,,Yl</t/0/(/ 'R£U/RONG, 
"lll~etitfN A C&N5t.1/?13 'R til?fTOR w.At-1,(//"1}{ 1/-fff-f'R£9/J?£, 
, }don't make predictions.
/N(3 'fl,l/5 5&7/ 

I never have and I
"" 
z 

never will' 
-Tony Blair 

.. 
·--------­
VIEWPOINT 
Friday, January 15, 1999 --------------------
--------------------------page 11 

¦ LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Impeachment against All 
Odds 

You Smrntors are standing on the edge of a very high cliff. Wlwn the impeachment trial is over and you cast your votes, you will determine whether or not lo step over the edge. 
This nL'if\ is 11xtrnmely important because it is only the snconu c,L'ie or impeachment, Congress's C'.rt1Cial chnck on the Prcsidcnl. Our forefathers' gn\lllt;st fnar was a tyrannical monarch. Over the years. we have bccome comfortable with a presi­dent. and have allowed the presidency more power. For example, the President can order the American army lo make war without consent from Congress and for what1wr,r reason the Prnsidcnt can find. The Unitrd States Military and the influ­1\nce or the Unitnd States on the world make the l'rcsidnnt ol' tlw United States the most powerful ollirn in Urn world. Impeachment is Cong-rcss's strongest check on the President. This trial is important b1•r.ause it sets precedent on this most important check brtwr1en our legislative and excc­ulive branch. 
In the lasl fow monlhs, oubide persuasiuns have clouded tlrn issue ofimpPachmenl. Pnoplc have pointed to Clinton's popularity and the public's wish to keep tlm President in ollicc. People have suggested that impeachment has too many bad conseqmmces to be usnd. Your colleagues in the I louse have votnd based on party lines. l'eopln have scrca1111\d to leave Clinton's private life alone. 
As jurors in the Sr.nate. you should not consider popularity. or party affiliation, or the consequenr,es oflinding Clinton guilty, or least of' all Clinton's pri­vate lifo. Our chiel'law enforcement oflicer is on trial for breaking the law. not for his private activi­ties. If Im is found guilty, he must bn removed from ollico. not punished in any other crnative way. Censure sd,; a prncedr.nt that could make our forefather's worst fear a reality. If a United States l'rnsidcnt is llllownd Lo break the law and continue in powrr. we step over the edge and pave the way lo a l'ulurn tyrannical rulP. lie already h<L'i control of our military. That's scary enough. 
The two-year declion of I louse members makes thorn mon\ subject to public opinion. llowcvcr, !louse Bnpublicans ignornd opinion polls strongly against impeachment. Are party tics strong enough lo convince House members to ignore their electorate? More likely, the polls (combined with party alliliation) convinced the Democral'i to side with Clinton. For the House Hepublicans, the cvi­rlenc'.e saying Clinton broko the law (combined with party afliliali()n) was enough for them to ignore the polls that are normally so powerful in the I louse. With the lkmocraL,; screaming censure and the I lousn Hcpublicans ignoring opinion polls, it seems ckar that the evidence points to Clinton's guilt. 
Wn must not open the United States Presidency to tyranl'i. To acquit a guilty president is to step over the edge toward tyranny. If' Clinton is guilty, he must be removed from ol1ice. 
Man Kun 
s~nior, Keough Hall January 15, 1999 
¦ THE COMMON Gooo 

The Moral Significance of the Rich-Poor Gap 
In prr.vious columns, I showed how nco-conservative dis­sent on the question of economic rights is linked directly to specilic thnological and philosophical backings. Michael Novak, for instancn, uses the parable of the talents as a bib­lical prool'text for investment capitalism and 11 f'orm of' nat­ural law theory to argue that such capitalism is uniquely rootPd in the mind and so "goes beyond all prrceding eco­nomic systems." It is on this basis that he claims, "There is only one form of economics," and "We are all capitalist,; now, even the Pope." The Pop11, however, states that "the 
Church does 
not propose 
economic polit­
ical systems or
Todd David 

programs, nor does she show preference for 
Whitmore 

one or the other." To do 
________________ so would con­stitute "ideolo­gy." The Church·s social doctrine. "belongs to the field, not of ideology, but ol' theology, and particularly moral theolo­gy." According to .John Paul II, then, Novak's use ofscrip­turn and natural law to back one system is an instance of "ideology." For the neo-conservatives to move to a position of assent on the question of economic rights. then, would require not just a change of mind on this one point, but a shift from a particular system of ideology to doing Catholic theology. In each or the next three columns, I will point out key 
The neo-consr.rvative claim that the gap between rich and poor is not morally relevant a-, long as the poor are materially better off is rooted in the political economy of' J\dam Smith {Novak cites Smith and Friedrich von I layek very favorably numerous times in "The Catholic Ethic."). To understand Smith, it b important Lo view his "Wealth of Nations" in the context of his work in moral philosophy ­articulated in the various editions of his "Theory or Moral Sentimenl<,." Indeed. a moral issue initially prompts his writing in economics. In commercial society, the matter of' the status of the poor sharpnns the question of benevolence because, as Smith recognizes, commercial society increm;cs the gap between rich and poor. Smith divides his account of social history into four stages: "1st, the Agn of Iluntnrs: 2dly, the J\ge of Shepherds: 3rdly, the Age or Agriculture; and 4thly, the Age of Commerce." Each successive stage brings a larger gap between rich and poor. I le also argues, however, that the poor in commercial society arc better off t.han in the previous stages. The aim of' "Wealth of' Nations" is to demonstrate how this is so. Smith's answer is that. due to the division oflabor, commercial society generates more overall production and wealth; thus a greater gap betwnen rich and poor does not result in the poor being worse ofT. 
Perhaps the best way to read Novak's work -and cer­tainly the best way to read it sympathetically -is in a way analogous to Smith where Catholic social doctrine replaces the theory or sentiments. The social doctrine articulates a concern for the poor; the question arises a'> to how best to address that concern; the answer is an updated version (here is where Hayek is crucial) of Smith's capitalism. For Smith, commercial or capitalist society produces such 
claims integral to the ideology that frames wealth that the exercise of benevolence the denial of economic rights: the rich­is less necessary and when it is neces­
'IN SPITE OF THE GREAT 
poor gap is not mornlly relevant, the con­sary. the wealthy have the means avail­
CHANGF.S WHICH HAVE
cern with consumerism is overblown, and able to act benevolently towards the the primary material task is to make the TAKEN PLACE IN MORE poor through charitable giving. poor richer via an increase in the produc-Whern Novak moves beyond Smith is 
tion of wealth. All three claims will have ADVANCED SOCIETIF.S, THE in the effort to use Catholic social doc­to change for the nco-conservatives to HUMAN INADEQUACIF.S OF trine to give a particular positive spiritu­bring themselves in line with Catholic al valence specifically to capitalism; thus 
CAPITALISM AND THE
social doctrine. the scriptural proof'texting and exclusive The first of these claims is that the gap RF.SULTING DOMINATION OF natural law argument,;. At most, Smith between rich and poor is not morally rel­states that commercial society can help
THINGS OVER PEOPLE ARE 
evant as long as the poor are materially develop the "inferior virtues," such IL'> better off than in previous arrangements. FAR FROM DISAPPEARING.' industriousness, that arc driven by self-Novak writes. "This 'gap' is not the moral interest, but not the higher virtues that 
point, but the need for rapid improve­_ Pope John Paul II are shaped by other-regard. He states 
ment of the lot of the poor" ("The Catholic Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism," 153). "Toward the Future," the "Lay Commission" document that Novak drafted goes even further to say that it is "improper lo concentrate on 'the gap' alleged to exist between rich and poor countries" (49). 
John Paul, however, does "allege" just such a gap. In "Dives in Misericordia," he emphasizes both the fact and the moral importance of the widening gap. "This fact is uni­versally known. The state of inequality between individuals and between nations not only still exisl<;; it is increasing. It still happens that side by side with those who arc wealthy and living in plenty there exist those living in want, suffer­ing misery ... This is why moral uneasiness is destined to become more acute" (par. 11). He elaborates on the issue at several poinl<; in "Sollicitudo Bei Socialis," and com­ments, "The word GAP returns spontaneously to mind" (par. 14, emphasis in text; see also 9, 12-16, 28, 39, 42, and 44-45). In "Ccntesimus Annus," John Paul expands the con­cern to include the gap in education and training that con­tributes to economic inequality. 'The fact is that many peo­ple, perhaps the majority today, do not have the means which would enable them to take their place in an effective and humanly dignified way within a productive system in which work is truly central. They have no possibility of acquiring the bask knowledge which would enable them to express their creativity and develop their potential. They have no way of rntcring the network of knowlndge and intercommunication which would enable them to see their qualities appreciated and utilized ....In spite of the great changes which have taken place in more advanced soci­eties, the human inadequacies of capitalism and the result­ing domination of things over people are far from disap­p<\aring. In fact, for lhe poor, to the lark of material goods has been added a lack of knowledge and training which prevents them from escaping their state of humiliating sub­jection" (par. 33). 
ff one is neo-conservative. th1:m, one would have to charge that John Paul's focus on the rich-poor gap is "improper." Given the desire to appear in conformity with thn Pope. this charge creates problems for the neo-conserv­ative. Novak, in "The Catholic Ethic'' attempts to resolve this dilemma by claiming that .John Paul refers to the gap only "metaphorically" (152). It is unclear to this writer how someone could read the above passages with all their con­creteness and conclude, as Novak does, that the gap that the Pope refers to is merely metaphorical. Hather. it appears that there is a gap between the neo-conservatives and John Paul on the question of the moral significance of the gap between rich and poor. 
that one looks "in vain" for acts of 
benevolence in the market. In encoun­ters with others in the market, a person "will be more likely to prevail if he can interest their self-love in his favor, and show them that it is for their own advantage to do for him what he requires of them ... It is not from the benevolence of the butcher, the brewer or the baker, that we expect our dinner, but from regard to their own interest" ("Wealth of Nations," 1.ii.2). While Smith sees the material advantage of capitalism to address the concern for the poor articulated in the moral sentiments theory, he docs not in turn seek prooftexts in his moral sentiments theory to spiritualize capitalism as Novak does with Catholic social doctrine; in other words. he stops short of ideology. 
This difference between Smith and Novak -say, between the Healist and Spiritualist understanding of the market -is evident in their descriptions of those who work within it. Novak's book. "Business as a Calling," argues that entrepreneurs in the United St.ates are, IL'> a group, motivat­ed by a religiously-backed sense of civic duty. Smith, in con­trast, views them as "an order of men whose interest is never exactly the same with that of the public, who have generally an interest to deceive and even oppress the pub­lic, and who accordingly have, upon many occasions, both deceived and oppressed it' {"Wealth of Nations," l.xi.10). For Smith, at best the inferior virtues of the market that serve self-love can indirectly aid the purposes of benevo­lence or love by motivating the creation of material goods that one can give to the poor; for Novak, t.he market is iL'>ell' the locus par excellence for the practice of the superior virtues: we can "expect our dinner" from "the butcher. the brewer or the baker" -and our computer programs from Bill Gates -out of their love of neighbor. 
Where Novak and Smith agree is in their claim that mate­rial improvement of the poor makes the gap between rich and poor morally inconseqmmtial, a claim that cannot find support in Catholic social doctrine. One of the reasons for that is that according to the social doctrine, the problem is not just with poverty; thus the emphasis on the dangers of consumerism, an emphasis that I will take up next time. 
Todd David Whitmore is an associate professor in the Department ofTheology. liis column appears every other Friday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Ohserver. 
w E 
ceneN D 
O
THE 

---------------Friday,January 15, 1999
BSERVER 

THE BFST WAYS TO BEAT THE WINTER BLUFS 
Timber Ridge Ski Area Swiss Valley Ski Area St. Patrick's Park 
Location: Location: (Snow tubing and cross country skiing) Just north of Kalamazoo. Mich. {70 miles) Jones, Mich. (40 minutes from South Bend) Location: 7500 23 1/2 Avenue 616-244-5635 50651 Laurel Road (10 minutes from South Bend) 1-800-253-2928 Hours of Operation: 277-4828 
Hours of Operation: Friday: 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. Hours of Operation: Friday: 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. Saturday: 9 a.m. to 10 p.m. Friday: 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. for cross country skiing Saturday: 9 a.m. to 10 p.m. Sunday: 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. (Night skiing from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m.) Sunday: 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. Cost: Saturday and Sunday: 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
Cost: Friday: $20.00 for lift and $14.00 for rental Cost: Friday: $20.00 for lift and $15.00 for ski rental ( 4:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m. discounted rate) and Friday: $5.00 per hour for ski rental Saturday: $26.00 for lift and $17.00 for rental $5.00 oITwith college I.D. $2.00 for trail fee Sunday: $23.00 for lift and $16.00 for rental Saturday: $26.00 for lift and $17 .00 for rental Saturday: Same cost for cross country skiing Group discounts available for parties of 20 or more (6:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m. is two-for-one rental) $3.00 per person for tubing 
Directions: Sunday: $23.00 for lift and $15.00 fur rental Directions: Take US 131 North to Exit 144 (D Avenue) Directions: Take US 31 North to Auten Road Take a left on D Avenue and travel six miles Take 31 North to US 12 East Take a left on Auten Road Take a right on 23 1/2 Street US 12 East turns into M60 around Niles, Mich. Go down one traffic light and turn right on Laurel Timber Ridge Ski Resort is one mile down on right Follow M60 for 10 miles to Cassopolis, Mich. Road 
hand side Follow signs for Swiss Valley St. Patrick's Park is on the left hand side 

TIPS ON KEEPING YOUR CAR HEALTHY IN THE WINTER 
1 Keep your gas tank full. 2 If you don't use your car, start it each day. 3 Make sure you have enough antifreeze in your radiator 4 Don't leave any lights on. 5 Check the battery often. If you know the battery is old, replace it. 6 Some cars have filters -have those changed. 7 Keep the battery cleaned. 8 Make sure your windshield wiper fluid is full. 
If you do get stuck, your best bet is to call a tow truck. Trying to jump start your car might kill your battery. Towing fees are usually about $35.00 and response time will vary with the weather. 
~t' . 
~--.. . , . ;f._' ~·i-;::(~1 , 
.i.\:~+>~:,~·,'" ,':•~/ i _ :._ ., i·;;f/\"\''F·>·
. ••. ,"_· ·. 


w E 
ceneN D 
OTHE

Friday, January 15, 1999 page 12
BSERVER 

\ 
'll\ll1=1~~~:::!!:::h~~s 
South Bend winters 
---------~ 

'TIIE BLUES AND ~.,i,BEVOND THE BLUES 

Billions of.dollars .are spent every year tu tn~at it. It is estimatod that 5% of American -some 15 million people -suffer from it at any given time. It is seen as a major contrihutor to suiddal behav­ior. What is "it?" "lt'' is DEPHESSION. Slnce wt~ know that tho dark days ot: winter seem to lead some people to foe! cloprossed and that the holiday season, even with all the partios and festivi­ties, js often a time that many people to experience dcprnssion. we would like to help you understand depression ll«m(lr and 
·sbaf(} some ideas ou what you mlght want to do if you or someone you know is feeling depressed. 
Are your low feelings tho blues or something beyond the bluos'? T~at diminished seuso of energy and mildly dcpressod mood that soinefunes slits in are blues you can boat. Below nrn some dos and don'ts for combating the blues: 
DON'T overdo the calfoine . .i$1/,J)Or-J'Tovflrindulgo in comfort foods. 
··DON'T turn to alcoho] and other drugs. DON'T hibornate. DON'T procrastinate/avoid. 
,iiiiwfDQN'.T fsolate. youtsAlf. DON'T accept a bad mood and wallow in it. DON'T blamo others or take out your bad mood on them. DO get a reasonable amount of rest. 
'"f>0'13atwell (protein and carb8 to boost em,rgy without a "crash.") DO exercise. Physical activity (oven a 10 minute walk) will boost mood. A longer workout will stimulato a reloase of endorphins. 
DO take action. If y6u're foe.ling lazy/worthless, prove yoursolf wrong. Remember p<1,st successes. Set small goals; break big tasks into smal1er ones a.nd give yourself credit for accomplishing 
~aoh onfl. '.'1/Jii . . . · '11M1'00 eliminate negatives where you can (e.g., avoid bad news or pessimL,;;tic people for a while). DO add small pleasures. Savoring a cup of tea, listening to mus.ic, taking a walk,.calling an old friend ... Plan them into your schedule. DO stimulate the senses. Eat spicy food, listen to powerful music, dance energetically, wear bright colors, take a very long hn1/1bath, 'or a cold shower. DO do something for someone else. Call your gtandma, iron your roommate's shirt, smile and say "hi" to people you don't know. :•lllrf,,...HQw~yert,,wh.en depression is beyond the blues, it's time to take a dJfferenttactic. People describe themselves as "clepr(1s1wd" in many difforent ways and for many different reasons. "I got my test grade back, .. I'm depressed.." "My girlfriend and ( broke up, I'm depressed." "The Southern Cal game really depressed me." Deprm;sion is not sadness or grief. Failure, a loss, or major changes in our lives often lead to sad feelings. This is part of the ups and downs of life > ,bijphis is not real depression. Wo are depressed when we cannot ·move on with our lives after a major loss, or if we have no idoa of why we feel down. People who are depressed often say "I have no ',t,r~~on tofel:ll th.is way, my life is good." The very fact tht~ foelings 1seem to come out of the blue may suggest dopresslon. Real (clinical) depression is Jik(~ly to color our viow of the world 
so that our successes seem minor and our failures seem major. A ... PEl~n who is depressed often feels unable to focus on the posi­1~tive,ibpntfalluresin the context ofother successes and to accu• 
rately assess their own strengths and weaknesses. Somo depressed people say things like "Even though I know tho world JP ~.twt9fcolo~, to DJe everything look~ gray." . . 
w;,,ti:?1(1, d.epress10n becomes more serious, we are hkoly to experi­ence physical. symptoms such as restlessness, the inability to sJoep or a need to sleep excessively, appetite changes, crying spulls or tbeJnability to enjoy normally pleasurable activities. 
Many professionals bolieve that depression is rnally anger turned in on ourselves. Instead of gotting angry at peopl<l or events in our lives that are negative), we blame ourselves for what has happened ..-even if we have no control over it. Jt is also known that people who arl'! overly responsible or self-blaming are more Ukely to experience depression, 
Here ar~ some things that we know about the causes ol' dnpres­sicin. Some people are predisposed to expl:'riencf1 deprllssion. IT there is a history of depression in your family, you may be morP­likoly to become depressed. For some people, dcpr(lssion is a reaction to oxcussivo stres~. Buming the candle at both cmcls, not sleeping, etc.. may trigger d<lprossion. Finally, some people seem to got "stuck" when dealing with a diOicult negative expPrience and move .from sadness to depression. . 
ts thore some good news about all of this'( There ls. For many people, depression runs its courso and thoy start to fool well again. Some people seek counseling and it is clear that counseling can h(llp them manage depression and often shorten tho depres­sive cycle. Finally, almost ,ivory few months a new anti-dopros­sant comes on tho market. For people with more serious deprns­sion, thesn products can be very helpful. 
With all of these resources. It is sad to realiw that 70% of' peo­ple with depression never receive profossional help. The University Counseling Center is a place to seek ht~lp if you nro feeling depressed. You may visit our web sito at www.nd.edu/-ur,e or caJJ us atb'.H-7336. 
ThP vir.ws expre!:sed in this article are those ofthe author, not necessarily those of The Ofmin;er.
Photos by Kevin Dalum Illustration by Ken Nishimura 

page 14 The Observer• SPORTS Friday, January 15, 1998 
¦ NFL 

Johnson changes mind, still the coach 
Miami Dolphins' coach still has desire to reach the promised land 
Associated Press 
DAVIE, Fla. 
Jimmy Johnson's voice 
cracked and his eyes welled with 
tears Thursday as he explained 
his flirtation with retirement by 
describing the worst loss of his 
life. 
"When I went to mother's 
funeral. they had the viewing the 
day before, and I wasn't 
able to do that," Johnson said, 
pausing between sentences to 
compose himself. 
The Dec. 20 death of his mother, Allene, his father's fight wi.th cancer and his impending marriage had Johnson ready to quit as coach of the Miami Dolphins --until the team's owner talked him into a startling change of heart. 
After a meeting With owner Wayne Huizenga, the 55-year­old Johnson decided to delegate some of his duties by hiring former Chicago Bears coach Dave Wannstedt as assistant head coach. 
"There are times when you pull back and say, 'Be with the people you care about, and don't shortchange them. They care about you. They love you. They're supportive in everything you do. Give them just a little bit back,"' Johnson said. 
Instead of quitting, Johnson will return for a fourth season with Miami in 1999. "My com­mitment is going to be the same as far as getting us to a champi­onship," he told a hastily called news conference. "But I will try to spend a few more hours with my family.'' 
The wild sequence of events began late Wednesday, when the news surfaced that 
¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Johnson planned to retirfl. Dolphins officials were braced for Johnson's departure when he arrived at work Thursday morning. 
"I was not looking forward to being on the streets looking for a coach," team president Eddie Jones said, "and that's where we were headed.'' 
Wating outside the head coach's oftice, Johnson said, was quarterback Dan Marino, eager to persuade him to stay. Johnson then met with Huizenga, who flew overnight from a baseball meeting in California to keep his coach, and they dis­cussed the addition of Wannstedt. 
Wannstedt, fired two weeks ago after six seasons with the Bears, was an assistant to Johnson when the Dallas Cowboys won the 1992 NFL title and the Miami Hurricanes won the 1987 national champi­onship. 
"Wayne's smart enough to see this can work," Johnson said. 
After meeting with his assis­tant coaches, who endorsed the new chain of command, Johnson announced that he'll stay for another season. But he'll also try to cut down on the 16-ho.ur workdays. 
"There are going to be times I'm not going to be here until midnight but Dave will," Johnson said with a grin. 
"We didn't talk about that,'' Wannstedt jokingly protested. The developments raised ques­tions about Johnson's commit­ment, but he stressed several times during the news conference that he remains devoted to the Dolphins. 
"I'm going to coach like the dickens to get us a champi­onship," he pledged. 
Team officials and players apparently believe him. 'Tm glad Jimmy has decided to stay and continue the progress we have made over the last three years," Marino said in a statement. 
Huizenga didn't attend the news conference, but he grinned later while rushing to his car at the Dolphins' complex. 
"Anything you can do to save Jimmy is a good day," Huizenga said. 
Still in the plans is Johnson's marriage to his longtime girl­friend, Rhonda Rookmaaker. 
"She's excited about me stay­ing," Johnson said. "The only thing she said was, 'I'm not letting you off the hook. You're still marrying me."' 
Johnson is under contract through 2000 after signing a one-year extension in April. But v.ith Wannstedt now the heir apparent, Johnson was noncom­mittal about coaching beyond 1999. 
"Who knows?" Johnson said. "I can't say what's going to hap­pen a year from now. You may be stuck with me forev­er. I don't know." 
The prospect of Johnson retir­ing was a surprise because the Dolphins appear on the verge of Super Bowl contention. 
Although the humiliating 38-3 loss at Denver was the most lop­sided postseason loss in team history, the Dolphins have improved in each of Johnson's three seasons. This year, they allowed the fewest points in the NFL and won a playoff game for the first time in four seasons. 
"I really believe that we're a couple of playmakers away offensively from getting that championship," Johnson said. 
Johnson, who divorced his first wife and has two children from that marriage, has always confessed to putting his job first and family second. He rarely remembers birthdays or anniversaries, doesn't observe holidays and dislikes talking on the phone. Now he wants to change. "I don't regret doing anything I did,'' he said. "But I can learn from what has happened. I r.an be a better coach, more relaxed, more upbeat and more positive if I havn a good fomilv lif .... " 
It's funny ho~ things work out: .Johnson stays with the Dolphins, and they have themselves a new coach. 
Wannstedt hired to ease the pres­sure on former Cowboy buddy Johnson 
A»uciatcd Press 

DAVIE, Fla. 
Jimmy Johnson is still coach­ing because of Dave Wannstedt, and Wannstedt is back in coaching because of Johnson. 
The two close friends gave each other a career boost Thursday. Johnson decided not to resign as the Miami Dolphins' coach, instead dele­gating some of his duties by hiring Wannstedt as assistant head coach. 
"He's somebody who's going to help us take that next step," Johnson said. 
Wannstedt was reunited with Johnson two weeks after being fired as the Chicago Bears' head coach. 
"I do want to be a head coach again," Wannstedt said. "But my focus right now is winning and getting the Dolphins to the Super Bowl." 
Johnson, 55, was on the verge of retirement because he wanted to spend more time with his family. But in a meet­ing Thursday, team owner Wayne Huizenga persuaded Johnson to cut down on his 
'IDO WANT TO BE A . 
HEAD COACH AGAIN. 
Bur MY FOCUS RIGHT NOW 
IS WINNING AND GETTING 
THE DOLPHINS TO THE 
SUPER BOWL.' 

DA VE WANNESTEDT 
DOLPHINS' ASSISTANT HEAD COACH 
workload by hiring Wannstedt. 
Wannstedt, 46, was an assis­tant to Johnson when the Dallas Cowboys won the 1992 NFL title and the Miami Hurricanes won the 1987 national championship. 
"Jimmy's someone I respect on a professional and personal level," Wannstedt said. "He and I have had an awful lot of suc­cess together over the years. That's the plan here." 
Wannstedt, who arrived for a news conference via Huizenga's helicopter, becomes the heir apparent to Johnson. Wannstedt struggled to a 40-56 record in Chicago with just one playoff victory, but he was pop­ular with his playflrs and 
'HE WILL WORK WITH ALL THREE AREAS ­OFFENSE, DEFENSE, SPECIAL TEAMS -JUST LIKE I D0.[ON SUNDAYS,] WE'LL BOTH HAVE HEADSETS ON.' 
JIMMY JOHNSON 
DOLPH!NS' HEAD COACH 
remains well-regarded in Miami. 
Johnson said Wannstedt would be a true assistant head coach, not a figurehead. 
"He will work with all three areas -offense, defense, spe­cial teams -just like l do," Johnson said. On Sundays, he said, "we'll both have headsets 
on." 
This is actually Wannstedt's second stint with the Dolphins. Don Shula hired him as line­backers coach in 1989, but seven weeks later Wannstedt joined the Cowboys after Johnson became their coach. 

"Dave is a great addition to the team and has a special relationship with Jimmy, and that's so important," team president Eddie Jones said. "That brings something special .... to the table and will allow Jimmy to do what he wants to do." 
First Baseman Hal Morris returns to Cincinnati 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI 
First baseman Hal Morris was reluctant to leave the Cincinnati Reds a year ago --but the team's payroll slashing left him no option. 
A free agent once again, Morris has decided to return for less money and less playing time. 

Morris agreed to a one-year contract Thursday and a role as a backup first baseman and pinch hitter. The nonguaranteed contract will pay him $400,000, according to a source speaking on condition of anonymity. 
The Reds also agreed to a one­year contract with pitcher Dennys Reyes, who came to Cincinnati in the midseason trade for closer Jeff Shaw. 
Morris, who will be 34 on April 9, hit .309 in 127 games last sea­son for Kansas City.which declined to offer him salary arbi­tration. Morris made $1 million with the Hoyals last sea­son. 
He played for the Reds from 1990-97, hitting better than .300 in five of those eight sea­sons. His best season was in 1996, when he hit safely in 29 consecu­tive games, led the team with 165 hits and drove in a career-high 80 runs even though he broke his elbow in July. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 Souch Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid.
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro cdir all classifieds for conrenr without issuing refunds. 
disciplines.College credit avail­ NICE HOMES FOR NEXT  PLEASE CALL 4·3441  and at  library circle or South Dining Hall.  
NOTICES  able.Training program.Great resume booster! 1(800)743-5556 or www.universitydirectories.com  SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND 8,6,4,3,BEDROOM 2773097  PERSONAL  MADISON OYSTER BAR 402 E. Madison St., 10:00 pm  See you there! I hope everybody in the free world  
Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise!5Nights $279!Includes Meals & Free Parties'Awesome Beaches.Nightlife!Departs From Florida'Cancun & Jamaica $399!springbreaktravel.cQm  '-HO_U_S:-~-OR-~-E~-T-.N_T_  3BEDROOM HOME IN ROSE­I LAND AVAILABLE NOW2773097 _,_ I FOR SALE I  Happy Birthday Poon! Did you ever wonder how many licks it takes to get to the bottom of a tootsie roll pop?  TOMORROWl E, I am sure that if you did dance, you would not have a problem selling out!  had fun at Heartland last night. Hey Doug. Where's my milkshake? I think you had a little more than milkshakes at Senior Bar the other night. You had magical milkshakes.  
1·800-678-6386  TWO BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS.  Beautiful brass bed.queen size.with  M.  
4-5 BR. Available June for  orthopedic mattress set and deluxe  M,  Just please don't do the magical  
Spring Break Panama City  Summer, August tor Fall.  frame.New.never used,still in plas­ You can be my little fiery red flame  HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY,  dance. At least not when I6m  
$129!Boardwalk Room w/Kitchen  Dishwasher, Washer/Dryer, Full  tic,$225  anytime.  JASON  home.  
Next To Clubs!7 Parties-Free  Basement, Large Backyard and Off  219-662-4043  M.  HAMMONTREEl!I  
Orinks'Daytona $149!South Beach  Street Parking  MONITORED  You made it!! 1  Congratulations Kevin, the coolest  
$129ICocoa Beach $149Ispring­ SECURITY SYSTEM INCLUDED.  This Friday and Saturday come  LOVE,  high school teacher in the whole  
breaktravel.com  CAii 289-4712.  For sale; Digitech AP-20  check out the Michiana polka scene  . YOUR ROMAN LADIES  wide world!  
1-800-678-6386  guitar floor pre-amp/effects proces­ with  &  
sor. Ex. condition, only 1 year old.  THE FAM  
WANTED  WALK TO SCHOOL  $350 o.b.o. Call Brendan at 287­9910.  UMPHREY'S McGEE  (Look in Monday's Observer for a fun, little surprize!ll :)  Kevin Hughes, I love you. I haven't seen you yet but it doesn't matter.  
2-6BEDROOM  al  
SALES & MARKETING INTERNSHIPS  STARTING $165 MONTH/PERSON  TICKETS  HEARTLAND  Happy Birthday Jennifer Nash! I hope you have a great day!  Brandon. Dylan, Kelly, Donna, Valarie, Gina, David, Nat. Noah,  
University Directories offers  232-2595  222 S Michigan St., 10:00 pm  Love, Sarah Belle  Steve, Claire, and Sophie..  I love  
paid.full-time summer sales and  NEED 4 TICKETS TO  TONIGHT!  you all  
marketing internships.open to all  ND/MICH. HOCKEY GAME  Attention News department: 6 p.m,  Tori  

rr_i:1-'-ay---=-,J_an_u_.1ry=--1s_,_l9_99_________~The__D_f:i:~erver • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
Sponsored by Campus Ministry, OMSA, Student Affairs, Student Activities, AAA, AASA, NSBE, VSA, the NAACP, KSA, FASO, SUB, LBBS, HBSA, MAES/SHPE, Voices of Faith, 
Nuestra Voz, MPMS. HPC, African and African American Studies, and Student Activities@ SMC 
The Norm of Greatness: Daring to Seek the Truth 
" ... until justice flows down like waters, and righteousness like a mighty stream." A Celebration in Honor of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. 
Monday, January 18th 

THE NORM OF GREATNESS 
A Theatrical Portrayal ofDr. King with exce1pts from some ofhis famous speeches 
7:00 P.M. LaFortune Ballroom 

Wednesday, January 20th 
A BIBLICAL PESPECTIVE 
A Prayer Service in honor ofDr. King 
8:00 P.M. Keenan-Stanford Chapel 

:,{, \i 
-~ ' ,i . 
:~· . -~(
'.\_ .. 
Thursday, January 21st ·:-•"';• 
,,.~ ,~1~1.~d: 
A CELEBRATION OF CULTURES ON CAMPUS 
A dialogue with underrepresented students on their Notre Dame experience 
6:00 P.M. LaFortune Ballroom 
*Sponsored oy Student Government and Student Senate 


... 



-------•-· -•------~------·­
-
~ 

page 16 The Observer• SPORTS Friday, January 15, 1999 
-·---·­
¦ BOXING 

Tyson looks forward to yet another new-beginning 
Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS 
Mike Tyson recently discov­ered a fund worth $200,000 that was established for him by the late Cus D'Amato, the man who saw boxing greatness ii) a 13­year-old retorm school inmate. 
"I was overwhelmed," Tyson said. "He must have known I was going to screw up my money." 
Tyson has gone through many millions of dollars and has had many well-documented ups and downs in and out of the ring since D'Amato died on Nov. 4, 1985, about a year before Tyson became, iit age 20, the youngest heavyweight champion in histo­ry. 
Saturday night, Tyson opens a new chapter in his colorful, con­troversial career with a new manager (Shelly rinkel), a new promoter (America Presents) and a new trainer (Tommy Brooks). He also has two new tattoos to go with the likenesses of Chairman Mao and Arthur Ashe on his biceps -a likeness of Che Guevara on his stomach and a tiger on his right forearm. 
And a new attitude, says finkel. who has replaced John Horne and Rory Holloway as Tyson's manager. 
"He's 32 now and a lot more mature," Finkel said. A lot of people are waiting for Tyson to prove it. 
There will be a tie to the past in Tyson's 10-round fight against Francois Botha in the MGM Grand Garden. It was in that arena on June 28, 1997, that Tyson bit Evander I-lolyfield's ears, leading to his disqualifica­tion and the revocation of his license. It was restored last Oct. 19 by a 4-1 vote by the Nevada State Athletic Commission. 
He also was fined $3 million, 
but he lost many more millions 
of dollars by not being able to fight. he hopes Tyson can fight again 

Some astronomical ,figures April 24. hav.e been reported for Tyson's Saturday's fight will be the first purse for Saturday's night's pay­of a four-fight deal Tyson has per-view bout, but Dan Goosen with the MGM Grand. Tyson said of America Presents said the he wants to fight four times this contract is for $10 million. Not year. Both he and Larkin would bad for a 10-ro.und non-title like to cap the year with a third fight, but Tyson faces a $13 mil-'tight against Holyfield. lion ms lien. · America Presents will promote 
The fight also is being. held the first two fights of Tyson's lat­midway between New Year's est comeback, replacing Don and Super Bowl weekends, two King. Tyson and King are suing of the biggest Las Vegas week­each other. Tyson also is ends of the year. And the crowd involved with litigation with probably will be closer to 10,000 Horne and Holloway. than a sellout of some 16,000. 
"I'm just happy to be fighting," Tyson said. , 
But he also said, "I don't remember the last time I was 
CROSS COUNTRY SKIING '99 
truly happy without worrying 
, about something happening." 
Beginning Date January 15, 1999 
Next month, Tyson will be sen­tenced in Maryland, where he pleaded no-contest to two misde­meanor assault charges stem­
Rental Schedule 
ming from a fender-bender 
Fri-Sat-Sun-11:00am-4:00pm 
involving his wife, Monica. He has settled out of court with two men. 
Fees

Indiana Super Court Judge Patricia Gifford. who sentenced 
Daily: $4.00 

Tyson to 10 years in prison, sus­
Overnight: $6.00 
pending four years, for a rape conviction, could then take 
Two Nights: $7.00 
action that could send him back to prison for a parole violation. Tyson's probation is scheduled 
Location 

to end in March. He served three 
At the Golf Shop in the Rockne Memorial 
years in prison and was released March 25, 1995. 
Call 631-6425 

Key players in Tyson's career do not seem to think he will be jailed. 
Jay Larkin, in charge of boxing 
For more information about xc clinics call RecSports at 631-6100 
for Showtime, which has multi­
ple-fight deals with Tyson, said 
Brooks is the fifth trainer Tyson has had in a pro career that began in 1985. Jay Bright trained Tyson for his 11th-round loss to Holyfield, and Richie Giachetti was the trainer for the Bite Fight 
"The thing that happened to Mike was, he probably wasn't in shape and was getting hit with some stuff that he had no idea he could get hit with," said the 44­year-oId Brooks, who has worked with Holyfield. "He just lost it. I don't think he had a fight plan in either of' the two fights with Holyfield." 
"I don't know if my best is over," Tyson said. "I just had a drought for a moment." 
The telecast will begin at 9 
p.m. EST. The Tyson-Botha match is expected 1.o start no later than 11 :30 p.m. 
There will be a world title fight on the card. Roberto Carcia of Oxnard, Calif., will defend the Jiff junior lightweight champi­onship against John John Molina, a former lBF junior lightweight champion from Puerto Rico. 

THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
On the Campus Phone: 631-6316 
www.ndbookstore.com 

Sale ends January I6 ...hurry! Excludes, textbooks, software,and medical reference books. 
L­

Friday, Ja_nuary I5, 199_9 -----~ The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
¦ NFL 
Elder Anderson looks for flight to catch Falcons 
Associated l'rdt. championship game between have a little trouble getting the Atlanta Falcons and away from work. .Jamal Anderson's fallrnr Minnesota Vikings. The elder Anderson runs a hopPs to attend Sunday's NFC But James Anderson might security firm that is responsible 

Room 023 LaFortune Student Center 
Your new place to ship all your packages, conveniently located in the center ofcampus. 
Hours 
M, W, F  3pm-6pm  
T, Th  11am-6pm  
Sat  11 am-2pm  

UPS pick up weekdays at 4pm. 
Come visit us and let us take care ofall your shipping! 

Late Night Olympics XIII 

$1.00 Donation at the Door-Be aReal Champion, Support Special Olympics! 
Friday. January 29, 1999 • 7:00 PM -4:00 AM • Joyce Center &RSRC • 631-6100 
All LNO Medals Were Donated by the Notre Dame Alumni Association All T-Shirts Were Donated by <I:~ 

for guarding Mike Tyson, who will make another return to the ring Saturday night to fight Francois Botha in a heavy­weight bout in Las Vegas. 
"I'm so happy that the Falcons are going to tlrn confer­ence championship," Anderson said Thursday. "I just wish they could have gone a week later so I coul~! be there without any stress. 
After the fight, Anderson hopes to catch an overnight flight that would arrive in Minneapolis about 7 a.m. The game is scheduled to begin about 4 1/2 hours later_ 
If the travel arrangements don't work out, Anderson plans to watch the game at Tyson's Las Vegas home. 
The former New Jersey police officer has been protecting the rich and famous since he got an assignment to guard Muhammad Ali. "It's the domi­
: 7:00, D:45 : SHAKESPEARE IN LOVE (RI 
: 111:15,2:00]4:50, 7:30, 10:15 
no effect," Anderson said. "When people sec you with Ali, you get calls." 
lfo moved to California and launched his own security busi­ness. His clients have included entertainers such as the Jacksons, Hicharcl Pryor and Boyz II Men and boxing stars ranging from Ali to Sugar Hay Leonard to Tyson. 
llis son never showed any interest in boxing, but demon­strated at an early age that he would Im tough to stop on thf! gridiron. 
"When he was. 6 years old, he started playing Pop Warner football and was dominating his age peers running the football," the elder Anderson said. 
Jamal's father also taught him at a young age to stiff-arm potential tacklers. a technique he used very effectively on his way to rushing for 1,846 yards in an All-Pro season. 
Something About Mary (R) [1:40]4:15, 8:50, 9:20 
: MIGHTY JOE YOW: (PG) [1:10)3:60,8:45,8:30 • ISUH Know What You Did Last 
• PATCH ADAMS (PG-13) 11 :0014:05,8:55, 8:35 ' Summer (R)[1 :50] 4:20,7:00,8:15 
, STEP MOM (PG-13) [1:15)4:30, 7:20, 10:00 : Very Bad Things (R) [2:1014:50, , THE FACULTY (R) [12:30, 3:00)6:30, 8:10, : 7:30, 8:40 
' ~~~E GOT MAIL (PG)[11 :30, 2:2016:16, 8:00 ' Home Fries (PG-13)(2:00) 4:30, ' 10:30 : 7:10, 8:10 : Jerry Springer's Ringmaster (R)
' PRWCE Of EGYPT (PG) [11 :20, 1:4614:10, , [2:80]4:40,7:20, 8:25
: 8:40, 9:10 ABUG'S Lff (GI [U':5013:46, 8:30, 8:50 : Rush Hour (PG-13) [2:201 4:40, Of THE STATE (Rl [1:li015:10,8:11i 7:20, 8:30 


Now! Students and Seniors s4.oo Anytime 
at the Showpiece 18 •nd Town I: Country ll•at,.• 
-,------­
page 18 

The Observer• SPORTS Friday, January 15, 1999 
¦ PGA
Men 
continued from page 24 the boards. Notre Dame is 

Masters is one Jack short of a full deck 
out-rebounding its opponents by nearly 12 per game. Riley leads Lhe team in boLh rebounding (averaging 9.6 boards per contest) and scor­ing (16.4 points per game). McMillen is close behind in scoring, averaging 15 points per game. ' 
Pittsburgh is coming off a 80-61 loss to Georgetown. Junior Nickeia Morris led the scoring charge with 17 points and sophomore Monique Toney added 15 points off the bench. The Panthers are 7-7 on the season, but just 2-4 in the conference. 
"They're having a better season than they have ha:d in the past, so it should be a dif­ferent game," McMillen said. "Timms don't shoot well against them; they play good defense. We have to go in there ready to play." 


Edison @Hickory 254-9685 
ALL FEATURES IN ULTRA STEREO 
JACK FROST (PG) 2:15, 4:40, 7:25, 9:40 
MIGHTY JOE YOUNG (PG) 2:00, 3:50, 4:45, 7:10, 7:40, 9:50, 10:20 PATCH ADAMS (PG 13) 1:35, 2:30, 4:10, 5:10, 7:20, 7:50, 10:00, 10:30 PRINCE OF EGYPT (PG) 2:20, 3:20, 4:50, 5:40, 7:35, 8:05, 9:55, 10:35 SHAKESPEARE IN LOVE (R) 1:50, 4:30, 7:55, 10:35 
STAR TREK: INSURRECTION (PG) 
1:30, 2:35, 4:00, 5:20, 7:00, 7:45, 9:35, 10:25 
THE WATERBOY {PG 13) 
2:35, 5:05, 7:30, 9:45 THIN RED LINE (R) 1.:20, 3:0D, 4:55, 8:30, 7:00 WALKING NED DEVINE (PG) 2:50, 

Associated Pres, be able to compete in this year's year is not out of the question. back nine. lie was a runner-up
Masters," Augusta National With his youngest son getting four times and finished in the top 
' 

For the first time in 40 years, chairman Hootie Johnson said. 
married Feb. 20, wife Barbara 10 in every Masters in tho 1970s. 
the Masters will have to go on "Jack is very special to Augusta told The Palm Beach Post, "I Even at 58, he showed hewithout Jack Nicklaus. National, both as an individual expect to have him dancing by could still compete ½ith the best. 
After months of hoping that and a player. We wish him a then." Ho dazzled the gallery again inexercise would strengthen his speedy recovery." 
Nicklaus was hobbling so badly April by closing with a 68 anddegenerative left hip, Nicklaus Nicklaus also withdrew from at times last year that he stopped finishing just three strokes
has decided that the only way to two Senior PGA Tour events this his streak of 146 consecutive behind Mark O'Meara. His tie for play competitively again is to month, the MasterCard majors when he pulled out of the sixth made him the oldest player have hip replacement surgery. 
Championship and the Senior British Open. This will be the in Masters history to finish in tho 
The operation, scheduled for Skins Game. In addition to the third straight major he has failed top 10. Jan. 27, means Nicklaus will Masters, he is expected to miss to play. Nicklaus, captain of the U.S.miss the Masters for the first the first two majors on the senior Nicklaus' record at Augusta team that was crushed in the
time since 1959, when he failed circuit. goes beyond his six green jack­Presidents Cup, has said he to make the cut as a 19-year-old 
Nicklaus, a six-time Masters ets. He won his first Masters in wants to be able to play all four amateur. champion, did not say when he 1963 and his last won 23 years majors in 2000, particularly~·we are sorry if Jack will not might return, although later this later when he shot a 30 on the because of their locations. 
fflarco~s Pizzo 
laerving Notre Dame Area) 

243-1111 
Quick 
Carryout & Delivery 
52750 U.S. 33N 

fBetween Cleveland & Garden Rd) 
243-1122 
• SPECIALTY PIZZAS • FRESH BAKED SUBS • FRESH SALADS • 
Parmesean Cheese Crust • Garlic Butter Crust • Just Ask! J • I'F'R££ EXTRAS I @ Extra Pizza Sauce • Side of Banana Peppers • Just Ask! 
CBillwJ[PQJ0 0LP[gIB.ffi0 
No Coupon Necessary Excludes Other Offers 

(not in credit cards) 
Introducing the American Express® Credit Card for Students. Live for today. Build for tomorrow. 
The American Express Credit Card for Students is a resource you can depend on. With benefits like big air­fare savings, free credit information, and no annual fee, it'll help you get the most from your student years -and help you build a solid financial foundation for the future. 
CAUFlL!. FREE 1-877-NO-FEE-4U TO APPLY, OR VISIT OUR WEBSITE: V\"WV'J.AMERICANEXPRESS.COM/STUDEN1 
Cards 

Friday, January 15, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 19 
¦ SWIMMING 
Men prepare for Spartans, Women to take on Illini, Buckeyes 
By WES RICHARDSON 
Sports Writer 
While llrn men's swim team travels lo Lansing, Mich., today for a dual mMt against Michigan State, the women head west to take on Illinois today and Ohio State Saturday. 
Today's meets feature teams that the Irish have previously defeated in championship for-

ROLFS SPORTS RECREATION CENTER UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
mat competition. The men won the Notre Dame Invitational in December, defeating fourth­place Michigan State 1524-1085. The women returned Monday from a two-week training camp 

Rolfs Sports Recreation Center Drop-In Recreation Schedule 
Volleyball  Sundays  12:00-2:00  
rn-Line Hockey  Sundays  8:30-10:30  
Floor Hockey  Mondays  8:30-10:30  
Indoor Soccer  Tuesdays  8:30-10:30  
Volleyball  Wednesdays  7:00-10:00  
Lacrosse  Thursdays  8:30-10:30  
Badminton  Fridays  7:00-10:00  
Badminton  Saturdays  9:00-11 :00  

Come by Yourself, or Bring a Friend! 
All times are PM. Schedule is in effect only when classes are in session. 
..-----------------------------------­

B-fflRE HASKEi BALL 1111•1 co• 1111 
PICK UP APPLICATIONS OUTSIDE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE DEADLINE JANUARY 22 DEADLINE FOR INTERVIEWS ·JANUARY 29 

aaia. 
VARSITY SHOP 

HOCKEY 
in llawaii where they defeated second-place Illinois 151.5-126 to win the Rainbow Invitational. 
Both Irish teams expect tougher competition in dual meet action. 
"We beat them (Michigan State) pretty badly when they came here for the Notre Dame Invitational. but we were rested and they weren't," said Stelle Whowell, the men's co-captain. "It should be a lot more compet­itive in a dual meet." 
The men's meet features even­ly matched teams, according to assistant coach Jonathan Jennings. 
"The reason we wanted them on our schedule is because when we looked at their confer­ence championship results vers­es our conference championship results, it looked like a perfect match," Jennings said. 
But he did admit that the Spartans might be one notch faster than the Irish. The key to beating the Spartans, he says, is placing first in the relays. This is especially important since Notre Dame will not compete in the diving events. 
The Irish will need to capital­ize on the advantage they hold 
in the 200-yard individual med­
ley and the 100-yard back­stroke. Notre Dame also benefits from a larger and characteristi­cally deep roster. 
Michigan State's John Munley will challenge the Irish in the freestyle events, while toammate Mike Tingley tires to win the 200 backstroke. Tingley placed above all Notre Dame backstro­kers at the Notre· Dame Invitational, even as James Scott-Hrowne reset the Irish team record. 
Whowell stresses that the team will benefit from the intense competition provided by schools in the Big Ten Conference. 
"This is the first dual meet with a Big Ten team since I've been here," he said. "The Big Ten is such a dominant confer­ence. It's a good thing tu swim teams from that conference." 
The women also expect Illinois to be a more formidable oppo­nent than they were in Hawaii. "Illinois will be really difficult for us. They've always felt it impor­tant to swim well ai home," coach Bailey Weathers said. 
Ohio State is in a rebuilding stage, so the main focus of the weekend will be defeating Illinois, according to Weathers. 
"Their depth across the board shows better numbers than ours. Their fastest kids will give us problems," he said. 
Illinois either beat or placed closely behind Notre Dame swimmers in the Rainbow Invitational. The Fighting Irish will need to keep the Fighting Illini from dominating the breaststroke and the freestyle relay. 
The recent training camp may be a factor in the meet's results. While the trip will help the Irish at Big East and NCAA Championships, it is unsure whether the team has had time to recover from the intense workouts. 
"We're dnfinitely tired, but tlmy're tired too," Wnathers said of tonight's math-up. "Christmas training was really good. We improved in a lot of areas. Whether we're recovered from training is another question." 
r---------------~--------, 

C(lse 1our Christmas 
Gift Certificates! 



ShoP at BORDERS Jan. IS­
17th and 22-24th to help the Ladies of Notre Dame/ St. Mary•s Scholarship Fund. 
Ask at Check-out for a BORDERS Benefit Days certifi-1 cate and BORDER'S will donate: 15%of Your Purchase Price to the! 
LND/ SMC Scholarship Fund. : 

receive a coupon for Edy's Ice Cream at Martin's Super Market 
L------------------------J 
aai:r.. 
VARSITY SHOP 
--·· 
vs. Alaska-Fairbanks Jan. 15 & 16 7:00pm 
... 

* * * . * 
Saturday, get a chance to win a University Park Mall Gift Certificate! 



Why let your dreams remain dreams, when you can achieve them with the power of Ernst & Young? 
With our unique Master's program, you can earn your degree while earning v~luable business experience at one of the world's leading firms. 
Your "Master Plan" is simple: you continue your education, with your tuition fully 
paid, while working on challenging client assignments and deyeloping your leadership skills. After this program-you will have earned a Master's of Accountancy degree from the University of Notre Dame or the University of Virginia-and continue your career with a competitive edge. 
If you are a junior or a senior pursuing a Bachelor's degree in Business, with a concentration in MIS, Management, Marketing, Finance, Operations, or Economics, and you are interested in obtaining a Master's of Accountancy degree and a CPA, please attend an information session ... 
Time: j Date: Place: 
6:00 -7:30 pm 1/20/99 Notre Dame Room at the Morris Inn 
You'll find out more about program details, the application process, and what opportu­nity feels like at the forefront. Visit our web site at www.ey.com/careers/masters or e-mail us at: Your.MasterPlan@ey.com 
s!/ fRNST&YOUNG LLP 
_........ ­
Ernst & Young UP, an equal opportunity employer, values the diversity of our work force and the knm,·kcli.;<: of our PL'<lflle. 
Friday, January I5, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 21 
The guard from Piscataway, Connecticut, the two freshmen ¦ OLYMPICS
Men 
N.J ., went 5-for-5 from beyond drew four fouls early in the the arc in 24 minutes of play. second half and were forced to 
continued from page 24 Perimeter defense woes con­sit on the bench. Without a tinued for the Irish, as the visi­major piece of their offensive 
IOC members face 
part of a reschedulud game tors went 57.1 percent from clout, the Irish were unable to because of Wl'ltlher, and left 
behind the line. On the other keep up with the Huskies' with a 93-(1 I rout that left side of the ball, lhe freshmen scoring. most Irish !'ans shaking their Troy Murphy and David Fortunately, few teams have 
possible expulsion 
heads. Graves once again led the Irish shown the ability to contain While both sides wnrn on a 
both players, or even justthrnn-game sclrndule over a 
Murphy, for that matter. The 

Associated Press level IOC panel last month to
f'ivn-day period, Villanova 'I'M LOOKING FORWARD 
forward from Morristown, 

investigato allegations that IOCshow<ld no signs of fatigue TO PLAYIMG AT HOME. I N.J., has already earned con­LAUSANNE, Switzerland members received cash pay­
with a second-half ofl'nnsive 
ference Rookie of the Week

ALWAYS ENJOY THIS TRIP, Nine IOC members face possi­ments, scholarships, free med­blitzkri11g that proved impossi­
honors live times already this 

ble expulsion for "serious" ical care, lavish gifts and othm·ble lo contain. Aftm· hitting the AROUND THIS TIME OF YEAR. 
season, along with five dou­

offenses in the Salt Lake City inducements from Salt Lake
first night shots of tho second ble-doubles and two 30 point
RIGHT NOW, THOUGH, bribery scandal and four others boostBrs.
pnriod to put the game out of efforts. Even though the Irish 
face minor charges, the At least seven IOC nrnmbers
rnach. tho visitors went up by weRE LOOKING AT THIS AS have played just a few confer­
Olympics' top official said have been linked with the Salt
as much as :~9 points off a lay­
OUR GAME TO WIN.' ence games, the freshman is 
Thursday. Lake City investigation by
up by c1mtm· Rafa) Bigus with beginning to make a name for IOC president Juan Antonio Olympie officials, investigators,12:00 remaining. himself. 
Samaranch declined to identify press reports or the members
"We just came out flat," 
Still, in order for the Irish to 

the members or their offenses. themselves -Jean-Claude Ganga 
Dillon said about the sBcond­JIMMYDIUON be successful in Big East play, 
In an interview with The (Republic of Congo), Davidha 11' nxplosion. "We were 
another player must step for­

NOTRE DAME BASKETBALL PLAYER Associated Press. Samaranch Sibandze (Swaziland), Bashir
down 17 points to begin with, ward and make enough con­
was less than categorical on Attarabulsi (Libya), Agustin
and Martin IlngelsbyJ hit a lay­sistent offensive performances 
whether the 2002 Winter Games Arroyo !Ecuador), Sergioup to start tlrn half off. But we attack with 17 and 10 points for opponents to see him as a would definitely stay in Salt Lake Santander (Chile), Antonwern looking for some defen­nispectively. threat. 
City, saying it was the JOC's Geesink (Netherlands) and Pirjosive plays, and we just didn't As it was shown recently, As for the Irish, their chance "hope" and "desire" that they go Haeggman (Finland).
got any." one of the keys to stopping the to pose a threat to the rest of 
ahead in Utah. Samaranch said the IOC isTim Wildcats had four play­Irish is to keep Murphy and the conference begins this 
ers in double digits, led by He also said he has no intcm­considering a code of ethics for
Graves off their games. Saturday at 1 p.m. in the First 
tion or resigning as long as he its members. This would replace
John Colestand's 18 points. Against top-ranked Union Center. 

Ameal so good, . it already comes with seconds. 
Try our tasty Two-Fors. 2 burgers. 2small fries. Just $2.22. 
(Price and participation may vary.) 
The Huddle -LaFortune Student Center 
... 
BURGER 
KING 
.. 

It just tastes better. 
Cl998 Burger King Corporation Burger King Corporet,on Is Iha exclusive licensee of the registered Bun Halves logo trademark. 
has the support of the rest of the the ethics rules drawn up by committee. He plans to stay in Swiss executive board member ol1ice "until the last minute" of Marc Hodler, who rocked the 
IOC last month by alleging wide­spread corruption.
'THE GAMFS MUST GO "Maybe (llodler's rules) arc ON.THE not enough," Samaranch said. "Maybe for the futurn, we must
INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC 
think to have an ethics code. COMMITTEE WILL DO ITS This is something we arc study­ing." · 
BEST TO TRY TO PUT IN 
The top two officials in Salt SALT LAKE CITY IN 2002 Lake's organizing committee. president Frank Joklik and vice
VERY SUCCESSFlJL GAMES.' 
president Dave Johnson, resigned last week in the esca­
JUAN ANTONIO SAMARANCH lating scandal. 
..

"The games must go on,"
!QC PRESIDENT 

Samaranch said. "The International Olympic his term in 2001. Committee will do its best to try 
Samaranch said the IOC sent to put in Salt Lake City in 2002 letters this week demanding very successful games." explanations from the 13 mem­Hodler has suggested the bers implicated in the inquiry. games could be moved -or some 
He said four members had events held at other venues -if replied; the deadline is Tuesday. Salt Lake fails to meet its $1.45 Samaranch said some of those billion budget. 
members may ask to appear But Samaranch said the IOC before a six-man investigative had no contingency plans in the panel when it meets in Lausanne event Salt Lake organizers face a on Jan. 23. The panel will report shortage of sponsorship funds 
to the executive board the fol­and public support. lowing day. Samaranch said he had no If investigators recommend intention of resigning. despite 
that members be expelled, the calls from several Olympic-relat­board will suspend them imme­ed officials in recent days for diately, Samaranch said. him to accept responsibility for 
Actual expulsion must wait the misconduct that took plar,n until the full lOC meets next during his leadership. Ile has June in Seoul, South Korea. been president since 1980. 
Under the Olympic Charter. Samarru1ch said he had noth­expulsion requires a two-thirds ing unethical by accepting majority vote of the IOC session. firearms from Salt Lah City However, any members facing during the 2002 bid. I le said ho expulsion would be free· to received a pistol and a rifle ­resign before then, Samaranch reports put their total worth at said. more than $2.000 -and put 
He said it was still uncertain them in a storeroom with other what action would be taken gifts he has received. against members cited for minor Although IOC members am 
... 

violations. Ho said o!licial warn-prohibit1:1d from accepting gifts 
. ings were possible, but he ruled with a value of more than $150 out fines. from bid cities, Samaranch said Samaranch spoke f'or 40 min­the rule docs not apply to him utes in his first one-on-onn inter­because he does not votr.. lln view with the international said he is routinely presented media since the biggest corrup­with protocol gifts during his tion scandal in Olympic history travels. broke last month. Samaranch said the nx,~cutive "We had wonderful years," he board will take up his proposal 
-

said. "We had very successful to ban IOC: nrnmb11rs from visit­games. And now wo are in a ing Olympic bid cities. Tlwso storm." trips, in which members am 
Samaranch said the IOC has providBd first-class flights, luxu­three priorities: close the Sall ry hotel accommodation and 
Lake City scandal, adopt special other hospitality, aro seen as measures for the bidding on the fraught with dangers of corrup­2006 Winter Olympics; and tion . change the voling procedure for Samaranch said tho visits 
all future site selections. aren't necessary because the He said the changes could lOC has a group of' <lxp11rl'i who 
include selection of Olympic inspect the sites and compile a cities by the executive board or report on the logistical and another small group, or conduct­financial merits of each bid. In ing an open election among the addition, the cities make presen­115 rank-and-lile members. tations to the IOC members at 
Samaranch appointed a high-the session before the vote. 



Observer Sports: Simply the best 
..........................•-• .............................
' ..,.. ' , . f-' . . 
Introducing ... 
• • "Castle Point Select" • Designed for the Ultimate Comfort at Surprisingly Low Monthly Rate --Just Compare! •• Unfurnished or Furnished Spectacular Furnishings Available! 
•27" Stereo Television •Cherry Finished Furnishings •Microwave, Toaster, Coffee Maker •All Dishes, Cookware, Linenes & New Bedding
• •Plus Much More 
• • Mi 11 ion Doi la r Renovation • • LARGE One Bedrooms (737 sq ft), Starting at $457.00 •
•

• LARGE Two Bedrooms (1025 sq ft): Staning at $559.00 •• 
Included with rentals -mefallprivilege membership to the Castle Point llf'4lth and Racquet Club
" • 
including: *New Fitness Center *Outdoor Pool *Beach Volleyball *Sauna & Whirlpool *3 • Racquetball Courts *Indoor/Outdoor Basketball *Indoor/Outdoor Lighted Tennis Courts • 
•• Hurry in for a Tour of the Most Popular Apartments ••• 
• While They last! •• 
•

Ccast(~ :Point o\pcartments 
• ••• 
C(e\?e(an() @ Jronwooi> Rot1()s • 
• 272-8110 • 
www.casd~-_point.com • Xona119 -Saturaa9 Sam -6_pm Sunaa!:f 12 pm -5pm 

page 22 
Hockey 
continued from page 24 
though it was the third game in three nights on the road, Notre Dame outshot UAF 51-20 in a convincing 5-1 victory to take the third game of the series and a series victory. 

"The guys realize and respect the competition in the CCHA," said Carroll. "We all believe it's the best conforence in the country. There's a fine line The Observer• SPORTS
--------------~ 
between winning and losing. at the end of the first half, the They've lost some close games team rebounded with a confi­and we've won some close dence-boosting road win over games, and we know they are top-ranked North Dakota. going to come in here ready to Now, the team looks to take play." on the CCHA with that same 
After suffering through its confidence they've always had, first losing streak of the season said Carroll. 
Friday, January 15, 1999 
"Even during that [five game] losing streak, I thought our confidence was there, it was just a matter of making things happen," he said. "It didn't 
come  as  a  surprise that we  
won  that  game  [in  North  
Dakota]."  

One problem the Irish will face in the second half. as will many teams, is the injury bug. Notre Dame will play the rest of this season without starting sophomore dcfenseman Ryan Clark. 
"Clarky's a big hitter, so we might lose a little of hb physi­cal presence out there," Carroll agreed, adding Lhat Clark will be missed off' the ice as well. "Ryan's a good team guy and the guys look to him for leader­ship; we're definitely goini to miss him on the point. But we have guys that have been working hard to get into the lineup. They will be some of the guys stepping up and doing a good job for us." 
With all the strides this Notre Dame program has made in the past year to become th1; top ten team they arc this season, one aspect of their game has lagged a bit. That aspect has been the performance of the penalty­killing unit, which is currently operating at an abysmal 80. 7 percent efficiency. 


Friday, January 15, 1999 The Observer• TODAY page 23 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF NO DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

FOXTROT 
I 11-totJGHT You IT's OVER, 
WERE UI' PLU6G1NG MoM. 
YOIJR SToCI< 1N MY 
ALL THE ONl1NE INTERNEi CHAT ROOMS. CoMPAN'( IS AS DEAD AS 
A DooRNAIL. .J 
DILBERT 

ONCE A~AtJJ 1'H€ CRAZED MfUoRt>t.OC,IST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TlilS DA\; Lloyd. Bridges, Margari,I O'Bri.'n, Ronnie· Van Zant, Mario Van 
EoB'> fu})S -ro 

(/NP ,we 5,t1owfLAt<E.S 
!'ecbles, Captain 1Je1:fheart, Martin Lulher King Jr 
ttACfLY HI€ SA.NIE' 
Happy Birthday: This will be a 
romantic year. Get out and do things 
with the one who has caprured your 
w€R€ 1H~A:f{fED BY A 
('otb LAB Ass,s,AN'. 
heart. It you are all alone, get out and 
strut your stuff becaus~ someone who's good for you is likely to rnme into your life. Actions will speak louder than words when ii comes tn unveiling your feelings. Know "' your heart what you wan! and g" aflPr it. Your numbers: 6, 13, 22, 32, 
WHAT ALL 1HESE 
HAPPENED? 1NVEST0R TYPES \ k'EPT ASKING '­
--~\S<E ~\j
~\\ 

8 r-D:=E=S=PI=,=£=Y=O=U=R=C=O=O=L==::-i i  
PON'ffi\IL ,  YO\J 5E.E.M  -:l  
TO  H~VE  5QUANOERED  f  
~  
OUR INVESTMENT.  

\/£..N1URE CAPITAL15TS E 

~ t 
F'oR FuN. 

'<OU'L l GET NO MO~t fUNDING UNLE5S YOU MUTTER Ef'I\PT'l 
INTERNET WORDS 
TI-iAT Mi\\<.£ 
U5 SWOON! 
14 Show restlessness, in a way 15 Certain fair site 20 It's not fa,r! 
41, 43 BILL AMEND 
ARIES (M.rch 21-April 19): Ignore colleagues who appear to be going nowhere fast. You liave enough 
THE'!' CALLED TI-IE ONLY to get accomplished without dealing YouR BLUFF, TI-11NG I HAD 
with individuals who would like tu
AND IT 

sidetrack you. Don't make large
EH? HAND'i To SEND 
KILLED 
purchases. 00000 
J 1l-lEM WAS THIS 
OTT 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You ONE DINKY LITTLE 
should look into acquiring as much 
knowledge as possible in your cl10sen
PROGRAM ro WRITTEN 


Puzzle by John Wolting 
31 Distant friends 32 It takes a big bow 34 Holy ­37 Very early 

21 More than passed 39 Erode 
41 Huit halved  
23 Part of a blouse  43 1994 Stanley  
26 Certain wave, for  Cup champion  
short  teammate  
44 Brinq upon  
oneself  
45 "The Morning  
Saigon  Watch" novelist  

field. You need to stimulate your mind, or boredom will set in, Pick friends who can provide intellectual debate 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Health problems may flare up if you haven't been taking good care of yourself. Take lime to relax and reju­venate. You can work out any prob­lems you've been experiencing at home. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Take 
care of those less capable of caring for
SCOTf ADAMS 
themselves. You can teach others valuable lessons by telling them 
about your own past experiences Work on creative projl'cts with others 
000 

LEO (July 23-Aug, 22): Insincerity from acquaintances can be rxpected 
when attending social functions. Con-
E-COMr--\ERCE.. 
C<'nlr,1t,• 1111 your work rather th.111 
your pl~rson.11 lifo for be~I rL'~ults 
00000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Y1>u 
can finish off those ovc·rduc projects 
that you'v<• bl'cn procrastinatinr. 
about. Look mto taking subjects lh,,t 
will cnabl,• you to climb thP ladder at 
work. Your ambition is growing. 00 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-OCT. 221: Try In 
be nbw,·tivc when dealing with n,la­
hves and friends. Tensions will narr 
up if you continue lo critit"iz,· oth,•r, 
N"t cv1•rynne has th,• same goals as 
you.0000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21)· You will /ind othrrs insightful l()day. Lis­ten and observe rather than plaring a big role in the conversation. You will feel extremely fortunak if you look outside your mm p1•rimeters. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21); Get "ut with friends /or an evening of entertainment. You will find that a change of residence will spark your interest. Keep your t>yes peeled for things that excite you 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 191: You can expecl upset due to reminders of recent encounters with your lover. You must clear the air by discussing the issues at hand. Com­promi~ will be in order. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. IR): Someone around you is dubious Don't be talked into doing thing~ that go against your beliefs and morals Make sure that you have all the r•'rh­nent facts before making promises 
0000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Tak,, it easy; you n<'f.'d some rest and rdax­ahon. Your nerves are frazzled, and ii has probably been " Ions time sine<' your last vacation. Try lo spend sum,, quality time with your male. 00 
GURGLE. 

Spring Break Migrant Exporlcnc(i Seminar ­During Spring Break 1999, the Centtff for Social Concerns will offer a unique experiential !earing opportunity. Students will travel to lmmekalee, Florida to work with migrant farm· workers and agencies that serve. them. Come learn more about this exciting opportunity at the Center for Social Concerns on Monday, January 18, at 7 p.m. 


Wanted: Reporters and photOgraphers. 
47 Accompanied a 53 Taro dish drum, perhaps 
54 All the rage 

Join 
50 Construction 55 Poet's zone sight preposition 51 Tower of 56 "Extreme London Machines" feature network 

The Observer 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 

staff.
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last SO years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
• 
ACROSS 
1 H,s last words were ·Thus, I g,ve up the spear•·· 
12 Ward Cleaver and others 14 Hold back 1& First s,gn 17 Identity 1a Abbr on a relief map 19 Caesar 5 partner 20 L1m1ted support? 23 Mamtam 24 Asteroid tirsl 
seen in 1898 
25 It may be seen breaking out 
26 B'lunty 21 r ne available tor ,he taking? 
29 Tal<e a stripe from JON Y.P.D. notice 33 Foundation. often 35 Alphabet run 36 Lane in the main 38 Kind of wave 40 Cartographic extra 41 Conk out 42 Strains at Covent Garden 46 Lady chapel locale 47 Old-fashioned 48Bite 49 Part of O.N 1.­Abbr. 50 "Harlot's Ghost'' subJ. 51 ~ words 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

52 It mean! a lot to Freud 57 lnt,me 
seSod1um Pentothal alternative 
DOWN 
1 Spotted 2 In any case l Light: Prefix 4Gymnast's 
dream sHavehfe 6 Conditions 1 Bottle cap? e Malaria 
symptoms 9 Displayed, in a way 10Mfnuteof­('/sodegree) 
11 Factor in a parole board's decision 
12 Hubbub 

Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q 
-

Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name ______________________ Address ____________________ City ________State ____ Zip______ 
The Observer 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
" 



¦ Men's Swimming ¦ Johnson changes his prepares to take on mind, decides to Michigan State. remain as Dolphins' 
coach, 
p.19 p.14
PORTS 
page 24 ------------------------THE Friday, January ] 5, 1999
OBSERVER 

¦ WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

12-2 team travels to Steel City to take on Pitt 
By BRIAN KESSLER 36 points against the Friars, Assistant Sports Editor en route to Big East player of the week honors. The sopho­
The ninth-ranked Notre more center averaged 29.5 Dame women's basketball points and 10 rebounds in the team. which is enjoying a lrish's pair of victories last school record eight-straight week. weeks in the top I 0. hits the "She has played great," said road this weekend for a McMillen. "She's really showdown with conference turned it on and is really opponent Pittsburgh Saturday starting to understanding the al 1 p.m. defenses they are playing 
The game marks the first of against her. She's starting to four road contests that the expect the double and triple Irish (12-2) will play during teams and is able to score their next live games. against them." 
"I definitelv think this is an Notre Dame will look to important stretch for us," said captain Sheila McMilien. "From here on out we have to '.IDEflNITELY THINK THIS focus on improving as a team. IS AN IMPORTANT This game will prepare us for 
STRETCH FOR US. FROM
the second half of the season. so we need lo pull together HERE ON WE HAVE TO and stay focused." 
FOCUS ON IMPROVING AS A
Notre Dame has won three­consecutive conference TEAM. THIS GAME WILL games, including a 111-90 
PREPARE US FOR THE SEC­
victory over West Virginia last Thursday and a 79-56 win OND HALF OF THE SEASON.' over Providence on Sunday. Danielle Green lit up the 
SHEILA McM,uEN
Mountaineers for a career­

WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CAPTAIN
high 28 points, and three other Irish starters also scored in double digits . 

• McMillen finished with 26 improve on its 4-2 conference points and a career-high record this weekend. The eight rebounds, while Ruth Irish have never lost to the Riley added 23 points. Niele Panthers, defeating Ivey recorded her second Pittsburgh in all five previous double-double of the season meetings. and followed it up with a 10-The women will also try to point, 10-rebound perfor~ continue their dominance on mance against Providence. 
Riley scored a career-high see WOMEN/ page 18 Irish guard Niele Ivey should be a force as the Irish take on Pitt tomorrow afternoon. 


¦ MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish prepare to take on Villanova 
By BILL HART Assistant Spores Editor 

This weekend, the men's basketball team hopes to dis­prove the old adage that his­tory repeats itself. 
Heading eastward to face 11-5 Villanova. Notre Dame brings with it an 0-5 record there against its Big East rival. But for Philadelphia native Jimmy Dillon, the annual ritual of returning to his hometown makes this trip somewhat different from oth­ers. 
''I'm looking forward to playing at home," Dillon said about the upcoming contest. ''I always enjoy this trip, around this time of year. Right now, though, we're looking at this as our game to win." 
Even with this optimism, the aftermath of the previous meeting between these two teams has to leave concern in the back of some players' minds. The Wildcats entered 
Irish forward David Graves will play a key role tomorrow at Villanova. see MEN/ page 21 
¦ HOCKEY 

Icemen to take on Alaska-Fairbanks 
By TED BASSANI against No. 5 Michigan. Sports Writer For the past five seasons, the series between Alaska­
The Notre Dame hockey Fairbanks and Notre Dame team puts its unbeaten home has had special meaning,' winning streak on the line since they represent the this weekend when it plays coaching tenure of Dave host to the Nanooks of Laurion with UAF. Laurion is Alaska-Fairbanks in a two­a former Notre Dame goal­game series. tender who was a teammate" 
Alaska-Fairbanks has got­of current Irish coach Dave ten off to a slow start this Poulin for four years. From year thanks to a murderous 1978-1982, Laurion played in early-season schedule. 91 games for the Irish and Already this season, the was a member of the last and Nanooks have faced the top• only Notre Dame team to play four teams in the CCHA a in the 1982 CCHA final. total of eleven times, losing all Last season, Notre Dame eleven games. won the season series against 
Hut their conference record Alaska-Fairbanks by taking of 5-13-0 currently places two out of three games in the them tied for the last playoff Carlson Center. Despite a spot in the conference. huge shot advantage for the Despite the poor record, how­Irish, the two teams split the ever, the Nanooks have cer­first two games, with the tainly been competitive. Seven Nanooks winning the second of the team's losses so far game in overtime. But, even have been by two goals or 
see HOCKEY/ page 22

less, including a 2-1 loss 
' SPORTS 
! 
-· >,. ATA 
' 
GLANCE

f 
at Villanova  Men's Swimming  
Saturday, 1 p.m.  at Michigan State Today, 7 p.m.  Women's Swimming at Illinois  
at Pittsburgh  vs. Alaska-Fairbanks  Today, 6 p.m.  
Saturday, 1 p.m.  Today, 7 p.m.  

~ 
.. 





