


JOE ST ARK/The Observer 
Notre Dame business students and company representatives exchange contact Information during last week's career forum hosted by the College of Business Admfnlstratlon. 

Smoke gets in your eyes 
H£fore you light up, take a look at S<'<'IU! 's report on ofthe deadly effects ofnicotine. 
page 12 
THE 
• Fair offers chances to meet industry recruiters 
Hy LAURA SEGURA 
N,•,-, Wrir~r 
A sPa of' suils and li!'s llood,,d Llw C:ollq{n of Business Administration last week as Notre llamP business students nl!'l with l'f'Jlff'Sl'llla• 
objective
liVPS frolll "/,asl year I jusl came lo 
mind. 
mor<' than fl<'l free pens, but this year "Last year I I 00 rom pa-
f 'm serious. " just came to get
1tiPs at tl11• 
free pens, but a 11 n u a I 
this year I'm 
COB/\ Cari•pr Jascint Vukelich 
serious," said 1:11rurn. junior business major junior Jascint 
Tlw forum wPlco11Jf'd a wide rang!' of COIIIJl,UliPS to SP[ up inf'orma­ti onal booths and rncruit llrn University's bt!Sl and brightest. 
On Thursday, seniors and MB/\ studPnls gathPrPd in a formal Sl'lting to mingle with company n•prnscntatives. 
"The r.ompanics an• here to hirn," said Mike Fortner of' Grnat West Life, adding that he already had a few snrious candidates after one evening of collecting ros1mws. 

Th<• Friday aftnrnoon sessions Wfire more casual, as business 
studonts roamed the forum to gPI a feel for the current job market. Students took advantage of the networking opportunities f'or summnr internships and tem­porary positions. 
Whiln some underclassmen just came to look, many juniors had a specific in 
Vukelich, who 
came to the 
forum in snarch of an internship in invest­ment banking. 
In addition to company repre­sentatives, students also could receive resume critiques and informational sessions in con­sulting. marketing. operations, accounting, corporate finance and entrepreneurship. 
Stupid freshmen? 
Transfer student Mike Marchand draws the line when it comes to defining freshmen at Notre Dame. 
page 11 
Monday 
SEPTEMBER 13, 
1999 
,.,., 
CHAOS ON THE GRIDIRON 

Lecture traces fall and rise of Harley-Davidson 
By BOB KERR 
News Writer 
While major corporations were handing out candy bars and jelly beans to prospective recruits during career day Friday, marketing executive Ken Schmidt greeted a crowd in the Jordan Auditorium with the roar of a Harley-Davidson motorcycle. 
Schmidt described Harley­Davidson as a "phenomenally successful company that wasn't always so," in his lecture, "The Rise and Fall and Rise of Harley-Davidson: The Power of Employee Empowerment." 
lie addressed the company's failures and success in direct relationship with drastic changes in managemont. 
When 13 members of the company's management team bought it out from AMF in 1981, they sought to restore Harley­Davidson's reputation for quali­ty, ho said, which had fallen during tlrn previous manage­ment. The new owners modeled their production lines arter Japanese competitors and reengineered the legendary engine. However, record-low market shares and employee cutbacks continued through tho 
mid-1980's, according to Schmidt. 
In 1985, llarley-Davidson entered a new era, he said, when management devott1d its entire marketing budget to r.us­tomer demonstration rides. Engineers, manufacturers, and financial analysts personally interacted with one customer at a time. and as a result. the product bncarne bnttnr suitPd to the clients. 
"Seat heights began to change, mirror heights bpgan to change, customization began to change," Schmidt said. 
The company has snon results. Since 1989, llarley-Davidson has brnrn sold out in advancH of production. 
As the formnr dirnrtor of com­munications and primary spokesman for I larlny-Davidson, Inc., Schmidt attributes tlw company's succoss to the strnngth of its personal relation­ships with customers. 
"Harley-Davidson understands what motorcycling is all about." Schmidt said. "We actually go out and ride and uso the prod­uct." 
To leverage this advantage, the Harley Owner's Group 
see HARLEY/page 4 page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Monday, September 13, 1999 
INSIDE COLUMN THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
They're not ND 
I don't want to talk about the game. I don't want to rehash botched calls, questionable play­calling, or stupid mistakes. I don't want to think about the "if-only's." It's too painful. Let me mourn in peace. 
Still, the trip to West Lafayette was a valuable learning experience. It made me thoroughly appreciate being a Domer. 
The corn should have been my first clue that something was amiss. We took the first exit that said Purdue, antici­pating the sight of the stadi­

um ready to accommodate Erin Piroutek screaming Irish fans. Instead, we found ... corn. For several miles we drove on a two-lane road winding Wire Editor 
through cornfield upon corn­field. Thanks to backed-up traf­fic, we had several hours to appreciate the corn. 
Finally we made it to campus ("I thought I'd seen ugly buildings before -but now I realize I was wrong," said my roommate) and into the sta­dium. 
Hut the reasons to count my blessings had just begun. Anytime there are more cheerleaders than football players, well, there's something inherently wrong. You may think I'm kidding. But I'm dead serious. 
Start with the 10 girls and 10 guys, who I assume were the varsity cheerleaders. Add 10 more of each who I think were the N cheerlead­ers. That's 40. Then consider the 16 flag girls and eight baton twirlers. We're up to 64. But that's not all. Count the 32 porn girls, even though I couldn't quite discern their purpose, and that brings us to a grand total of 96 cheerleaders. 
And you might think there's nothing wrong with this. Spirit is good, right? Well, maybe I could excuse it if there was any spirit in the Purdue stadium. But there wasn't. 
Our 12 cheerleaders are able to make the entire stadium resonate with the sounds of "We are ND." The Purdue stadium resonated with ... random noise every once in awhile when Purdue had a good play. 
After an entire game in Ross-Ade Stadium, with the Purdue fans just two rows behind me, I have no idea what their fight song sounds like. They never sang it. I think the band played it every so often, but I'm not even sure about that, since we couldn't really hear the band. 
Maybe we're spoiled, since when our band plays the sound resonates through campus. Even in the broadcast of the Michigan game, the Irish band could be heard loud and dear in the Big House. But I don't think it's too much to ask for a band to at least play loud enough that those sit­ting in the stadium can hear it. It's not like the sounds of the crowd were drowning it out. 
Even the individual fans were a disappoint­ment. The ubiquitous presence of "The Shirt" confused and befuddled them. One fan sneered, "What, did they give those shirts out for free or something?" I guess the concept of Irish unity is too much for them to grasp. Understandable I guess, since Boilermaker unity is nonexistent. 
As we were heading back to our car, a Purdue student shouted insults at us from his dorm win­dow. At this point, someone who would attack two girls while hiding in the safety of his dorm didn't even surprise me. 
We walked away with our heads held high. After all. we are ND. And we don't have to spend the rest of our college careers at Purdue. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily rhose ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Scene  
Finn Pressly  Michael Vanegas  
Tim Logan  Graphics  
Erin Piroutek  Scon Hardy  
Sports  Production  
Bill Hart  Mark DeBoy  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Mary Margarer Nussbaum  Joe Stark  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday excep, during exam and vac.111on periods. The Observer is a mcmbc, of the AsweMted Press. All reproduccion righrs arc reserved. 
Monday Tuesday 
. Sweatshop symposium: . Kevin Sharpe, pianist: 
llesburgh Center Little Theater, Moreau Auditorium; 7 p.m. Center, SMC: 7:30 p.m. 
. Tobacco Research & . Afrrican-American Marketing lecture: Dr. biography lecture: Arnold Victor DeNoble. Rampersand. McKenna Washington Hall; Hall; 8 p.m. 
7:30 p.m. 
Wednesday 
. 
Student Senate: Notre Dame Room, Lafortune; 6p.m. 

. 
Post-graduate Service Fair: Stepan Center, 6 p.m. -9 p.m. 


. Forever Midnight 
Hesburgh Library, 7:30 p.m. 
Thursday 
··. Ted Koppel lecture: 
Hesburgh Library Auditoriun; 7:30 p.m. 
. Auditions: "A Piece of My Heart." Room 16, Regina Hall, SMC; 7:30 p.m. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports
OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Miami says no to FLA, labeling it 'inadequate' 
OXFORD, Ohio 
Miami University has opted not to join a proposed national movement aiming to eliminate sweatshops use to produce collegiate apparel, label­ing the initiative as "inadequate.'· 
The Fair Labor Association, a non­profit entity, has proposed a univer­sal Code of Conduct for universities to follow that would allegedly help eliminate the use of sweatshops in manufacturing collegiate apparel. Some universities, such as Miami, see the proposal in a different light. 
The university, which currently does not have a code of conduct, formed the Miami Licensing Fair Labor Committee last spring to address the issue. The committee is comprised of administrators and two students, Derek Coons and Laura Kudravetz, appointed by former Associated Student Government 
"We don't believe it 
adequately addresses 
women's rights and living wage issues. 
Richard Keebler director of Purchasing 
president Nathan Estep. After a few meetings, the committee decided the while the FLA was an attempt to eliminate sweatshop use, more could be done. 
"We don't believe it adequately addresses women's rights, workers rights and living wage issues," said Richard Keebler, director of Purchasing. 
Because Miami does not have a code of conduct, there is a possibility 
CU bans reporters from meeting 
BOULDER, Colo. 
Two Colorado Daily reporters were barred from a University of Colorado Board of Regents meeting Thursday after attempting to ask CU president John Buechner about his continued refusal to answer their questions pertaining to his Total Learning Environment initiative, Fran Raudenbush and former CU spokesman David Grimm. The reporters, Brian Hansen and Terje Langeland, approached Buechner, who had been waiting in a back room, before the meeting started. Buechner has refused since May 27 to answer the Daily's questions pertaining to the TLE and his relationship with Raudenbush. "We've been asking you for months about the Total Learning Environment, David Grimm and Fran Raudenbush," Hansen said. But Buechner interrupted the question by saying, 'Tm busy. I'm not going to talk to you." "How long are you not going to talk to us?" asked Langeland. "How long will you continue to take this strategy of dodging these questions from the press?" asked Hansen. CU spokesman Bob Nero then asked the reporters, "Do you guys want to be evicted?" 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Monday Tuesdc!ty Wednesday ~, Thursday Friday
-;: ;,,..\1""'··, ....,__ f. "'~.r 
8.Q.~q~-=-~-=-(f 

Showers T-storms Rain Fllirries Snow Ice Sunny 
Via Assoc/t1ted Pr9ss GraphicsNel 
~ a 
Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
its apparel is made in sweatshops. For example, the football team uses Nike uniforms, even though Nike's working conditions in China were reported two years ago as hazardous and unjust. 
Sportswear companies, including Nike, offer the sports teams a bid price, and the university helps decide which bid to choose (usually the lowest). 
Nike offers teams, the most appealing hid, with a "buy one, get one free" deal for shoes, and offers discounts on wristbands, gloves, and a reduced rate for clothing, accord­ing to Chris Otto, business manager of intercollegiate athletics. 
However, the committee chose not to take the FLA's route because it saw flaws in the FLA's proposal, according to Coons, also a member of Students for Peace. 
Iowa State gets $80M for farming 
AMES, Iowa 
Accompanied by exploding streamers and fireworks, Iowa State president Martin Jischke announced an $80 million donation to the College of Agriculture Thursday, putting an end to weeks of speculation. The anonymous gift, announced in a ceremony on central campus, is the largest ever given to a college or university in the state of Iowa. It also is the fourth largest given to a public land-grant university, the eighth largest to any public university and the 26th largest to any institution of high­er education. "This is a record-breaking day in the histo­ry of our university," Jischke said at the announcement. The gift will be applied toward plant research, farm profitability and education in the field of agronomy, among other uses. "This is a transforming gift," Jischke said. "With this gift. we plan to make the best agronomy department in the world." All $80 million is not new to the university. Some was part of a $34 million gift in 1996 that kicked off Campaign Destiny, the university's largest private fund-raising initiative ever. $30 million of the original gift was invested for ISU to be received upon the death of the donor. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeatherll forecast for noon,Monday, Sept. 13. 

Q 1999 AceuWeattJer, Inc. Pm,ure; ® © w.High LOW Sl\owera Rain Via Associa/ed Pres.fl  -~'.T•storm• Flurries.  [;I-J Snow  COlO ~ lee  WARM STATIONARY 0 ~ Iii~.. , Sunny pt, Cloudy Cloudy  
Atlanta Boston Buffalo Chicago Dallas  87 74 78 72 81  62 60 61 58 63  Denver Detroit Fargo Juneau Milwaukee  78 73 59 58 65  61 64 45 51 55  New Yori< Richmond St. Louis Seattle Tulsa  80 81 74 85 75  63 58 60 56 56  


Monday, September 13, 1999 The Observer . NEWS page 3 
EAST TIMOR
Service project enters second year 
• Saint Mary's in the City expands to new agencies 
Hy CRISSIE RENNER 
N,·w~Wrim 
.•\boul (i!i Saint Mary's stu­drn1ts, l'anilty and staiT mnm­lwrs vulunt1,<'r1·d at local agPn­riPs Saturday as part or tlui s1•r1•111l a1111ual Saint Mary's in tl11• City rummunity scrvic11 prn!-{ram. 
SislPr Linda Kors, clirnctor of' thl' S1ws Unira Volunteer l!Ps1111rcP C:Pntnr, 1istablishnd tlw program last yPar as a way lo obsl'rVt\ Founder's Day by assisting local agn11ci1's. 
Tim program bngan last year with St. Mal'garnt's llousn, a daylimP drop-in c1•11lPr f'or wonrnn, childr1in and boys 12 ytiars old and younger. It. expanded this ynar to also include St. Joseph's Care Contllr, which houses about 150 senior citizens. 
/\t SL MargarN's, the vohm­le1i rs workPd alongside the agm1cy's gutists, cleaning and painting tlrn first and sncond floors. They also organiznd the ag1mcy's food pantry and paint­ml a mural. 
'They were so excited to see thn agency transform before their nytis," Kors said. "They felt a closeness to Saint Margaret's -a sense of honrn." 
"We chose Saint Margarnt's 
Clinton welcoines
Ilouse to mnbrace as our own included nn our original plat­agency,'' sht! added. "We want­l'orm during elections," she NI to have an impact on this said. "We recognized the particular agency. especially incredible women or Saint 
Indonesian accord 
since it was a women's centnr, Mary's College and wn wanted and so we have in a snnse, lhu <'nlire community to appre­adopted it as our own." ciate them as well." 
Associated Press 
/\t St. Joseph's, volunteers Th~ clay w':1s a "great suc­painted. washrd windows and cess, Kors said. 
AUCKL/\ND, New Zealand
wcdr.cl the garden. Thoy alsn "By having this event in 
President Clinton welcorn<'dplantnd new spring perennials. September, we help those who 
Indonesia's reluctant accep­
Kors said tlrn program are intfirestod in s1'rvice oppor­
tance or an intHrnational
included SL JosPph's this year tunities lo gPt off on the right 
becausB its mission is 
"ft was amazing being 
similar to Saint Mary's. able lo say just a Jew 
Sophomore words to the residents class presi­
and being able to
dent Michelin 
Nagle volun­brighten their day." ttiered at St. Josoph·s. Shn 
Michelle Nagle 
washed win­
sophomore class president
dows. includ­ing those insic.lc the resident's rooms. expand. 
"It was amazing being able to "It would be such a great the United States would sup­say just a few words to the res­idea to try Saint Mary's in the ply planes and pilots to trans­idents and boing able to bright­City again in the spring time," 
port troops from other 
en their entire day," Nagle Kors said. "Perhaps we could nations and help with logis­said. "Something as simple as enjoy the blooms of the bulbs 
tics, communications and
cleaning their windows made we planted and have a tea 
intelligence. He also said U.S.
such a difference to them. It party with the residents." 
officials
meant the sun would shine so Kors explained that there are 
might
much brighter in their rooms." many service opportunities 
See Also
play aThe sophomore class board available to the members of the 
role in "Government
co-sponsornd this year's event Saint Mary's community. A the "com­with SURV. Nagle said this is post-graduate service fair will 
allows peace-
m and
only the first of many co-spon­showcase more than 60 
and con­keepers"
sored service projects. international and domestic ser­
trol" of"The idea to co-sponsor a vice groups this Wednesday 
page5
the oper­
service project every month from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. at Notre ation.
with the SUHV office was Dame in Stepan Center. 
"All of that would require some 
peacekeeping force in East
foot." she said. 
Timor and said Monday that
"By inviting 
the mis-
students, facul­
sion will
ty, staff and 
require
their l'amilios, 
"SO Ille
it is not only a 
presence
Saint Mary's 
on the
project, but a 
ground"
.co m m u n i t y 
of U.S.
project as 
forces in
well." 
the ter­
Kors added 
ror-rid ­
that the pro­
den terri­
gram may 
tory. Clinton told reporters that 


presence on lhe ground in East Timor," the president said. "But no one has asked us for any combat troops." 
Clinton was awakened about 1 a.m. Monday with news that a once-defiant 
Indonesian President B.J. Habibie had caved to pres-
sum and sanctions from thn Unittid States and its allies to invil!l poacnkllepcrs into East Timor. 
Lat1•r, Llw prnsidcnt att1md­nd tlrn l'inal meetings of llrn Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation f'orum, arriving in a 23-car motorcade. in contrast to tlrn four lo six cars used by other dolega­tions. On a stormy morning, Clinton was dressed all in black -wearing tlrn oflicial summit black jacket. as well as a long-sleeved black knit shirt, black slacks and black cowboy boots. · 
Clinton had accused Indonesia's military of aiding and abetting savage violence in East Timor after it voted overwhelmingly for indepen• dence, and he had been rally­ing support for the peace• keeping mission among lead­ers at the annual /\PEC meet­ing. 
After Indonesia bowed lo pressure, Clinton praised Habibie. 
"The most important thing is for President Habibie to make good on his statement, get the details worked out, get the force in in a hurry," Clinton said. 
One potential snag was the composition of the peace­keeping l'orce. The Indonesians have expressed reluctance about allowing the Australians to lead it. 
"That has to be worked out today," Clinton said. "But my view is we should work with the Indonesians in a coopera­tive fashion. Perhaps they should have some parallel presence, even." 
University of Notre Dame International 
Study Program 
in 
~· 
...; -.. .,_·~:.J,d""-"' ~· 
INNSBRUCK, AUSTRIA 
Information Meeting With Professor Hannelore Weber 
TUESDAY SEPTEMBER 14, 1999 
4:30 PM 126 DEBARTOLO 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: DECEMBER 1, 1999 
Birthdav? Anniversarv? Ticket? 

Use Observer classifieds. 
page 4 The Observer . NEWS Monday, September 13, 1999 
Harley 
continued from page 1 
(HOG) was formed to provide a social outlet for owners and strengthen relationships between employees and owners. Today, more than 400,000 dues­paying members 
and showed how a reputation for quality had helped it grow in its earlv davs. 
Beg1in -in 1903, Harley Davidson achieved a reputation for quality. surviving both the Great Depression and World War II on police and military contracts, Schmidt said. 
After the war, Harley-
Davids on 
could not 
arc sponsored by compete
"Harley-Davidson under­
their dealers, with foreign
stands what motorcycling 
Schmidt said, and competition.this fosters what is all about ... We actually In 1969, he describes as 
go out and ride and use A M F 
"feeling of fami­acquired
the product. " 
ly" or "spirit of Harley­camaraderie." 
Davidson HOG gives own­Ken Schmidt and provid­ers a reason to 
marketing executive ed the man­ride together, both advertising the "Harley-Davidson sensory experience" and creating a need for replacement parts and accessories, he said. 
While competitors fly to major motorcycle events in business suits, Harley-Davidson employ­ees ride in leather and jeans. These events facilitate product loyalty among customers and increase company morale among employees, resulting in what Schmidt describes as an "ether buzz." 
"It doesn't matter if you are selling machine tools or ·widgets, you can create these experi­ences by being friendly and open with customers," Schmidt said. 
He told the history of the leg­endary motorcycle company, 
ufacturer the needed capital to expand. 
The rule of the day was "build and ship," according to Schmidt, and due to poor management, AMF's. ownership soon became known as the "dark era." At Harley-Davidson, production increased and quality plummet­ed. 
Schmidt described Harley­Davidson of the late 1970s, Just before the employee buyout, as a company with a "reputation for pandering to outlaw bikers, a very well-deserved reputation for poor quality in a declb1ing industry with had union man­agement relationships." 
Schmidt is now a principal executive with VSA Partners, Inc., a marketing firm that serves Harley-Davidson. 
Where it matters most. 
As one of the world's leading diversified technology companies, we're breaking new ground in everything from defense and commercial electronics, to aviation, to engineering and construction. As a Raytheon employee, you'll contribute to the development of exciting, revolutionary technology designed to make life better, easier, and safer throughout the world. Such as our STARS air traffic control system. And our award-winning NightSight™ technology. 
But it all starts with you. Your creativity. Your knowledge. And enthusiasm about the future. In return, we offer exceptional training and professional development opportunities. A supportive, down-to-earth work environment. And incredible benefits including flexible schedules designed to respect your quality of life. 
So you ran still show off all those great qualities of yours outside of work, too. 
We have a lot to tell you about Raytheon and the exciting opportunities we have available. Plan on visiting our booth at your college career fair. If you are unable to attend the fair, please e-mail your resume to resume@rayjobs.com (ASCII text only; no attachments), or mail to: Raytheon Company, Attn: National Staffing Data Center, P.O. Box 660246, MS-201, Dallas, TX 75266. U.S. citizenship may be required. We are an equal opportunity employer. 
BAHAMAS 
Islands brace for next hurricane 
Associated Press 
NASSAU 
Storm-wearv residents in the Bahamas braced for a brush with Hurricane Floyd as it swelled and powered up to a major storm, packing winds of up to 145 mph on Sunday. 
All of the Bahamas -a 600­mile-long line of islands -was under hurricane warnings or watches. Forecasters said they might also issue a hurricane watch for part of Florida's east coast Monday. 
If Floyd stays on its current path, it would hit the coast of Florida betwc~en West Palm Beach and Cocoa Beach. Forecasters expected the hur­ricane to begin turning north before landfall, though per­haps not much before. 
A U.S. hurricane hunter air­plane rf'ported Sunday evening that Floyd's winds had topped the 131mph mark of a very dangerous Category 4 storm. 
"I didn't expect such a very fast intensification today," s~id Jerry Jarrell, director of the National Hurricane Center in Miami. "This is a real surprise for us." 
Hurricane Andrew had Category 4 status when it struck South Florida in 1992, killing 26 people and causing an estimated $25 billion in damage. 
Experts said that by Tuesday Hurricane Floyd could approach the Abacos Islands and Eleuthera, which were blasted last month by Hurricane Dennis. 
"I just got back on my feet from last month's scare," sighed Marie Johnson of Nassau as'she pulled out a few bills to pay for flashlight and radio batteries at the City Market grocery'store. 
The U.S. National Weather Service recommended people along the southeast coast mon­itor'the storm's course. 
In Florida, emergency man­agement officials began mobi­lizing, with the state's Emergency Operations Center in Tallahassee calling in essen­tial personnel for 'round-the­clock staffing. 
Many Floridians took advan­tage of the weekend's final day to take careful inventory of their hurricane supplies. 
Osvaldo Ibarra, hardware manager at a Home Depot in Miami, said sales were brisk for batteries, nails, rope and hurricane shutter fastemirs. 
Lessons That Will Last A Lifetime. 
OFFICER TRAINING SCHOOL 
Put that college degree to use by enrolling into the Air Force Officer Training School. Upon successful completion of the Officer Training School, you will becom-e a commissioned Air Force officer with earned respect and benefits like -great starting pay, medical and 
dental care, management and travel 
AIM HIGH opportunities. For more on how to qualify 

and get your career soaring with the 
Air Force Officer Training School, call 
1-800-423-USAF. or visit our website at 
www.airforce.com 
www.a1rforce.com 

Opportunities are available for exceptional students with the following majors: 
• Aeronautical Engineering  • Computer Science  • Management  
• Chemical Engineering  • Electrical Engineering  • Marketing/Communications  
• Civil Engineering and  • Finance/Accounting  • Math  
Construction Management  • Human Resources  • Mechanical Engineering  
• Computer Engineering  • Industrial and Labor Relations·  • Physics  

Check out our Website at www.rayjobs.com/campus for further information including a calendar of recruiting events. At Raytheon, we strive to be the employer of choice for a diverse workforce by attracting, retaining, and recognizing the most talented, resourceful and creative people. 
Bringing technology to the edge 
Raytheon 

orld 
n 
Monday, September 13, 1999 COMPILED FROM THE OBSEHVEH WIHE SEHVICES page 5 
-----~---=-=-=-=--=--==-=:--============================-==-==============================================-================== 
AFP Photo 
East Timorese refugees wait in line for water Sunday in an Indonesian government organized refugee camp. The camp is in a sports stadium in Kupang, West Timor. More than 110,0l>0 East Timorese have sought refuge in Kupang, fleeing militia violence following the Aug. 30 independence vote. 
Government allows peacekeepers 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Armed group kidnaps 12 in Ecuador 
()UITO 
i\11 armPd hand has kidnappncl an AmPrican am! St\vcn Canadians who were working 011 an oil projnd in Ecuaclor's cm;tcrn jungle near Lhe Colombian bnrder, Ecuador's military said Sunday. Ttwy also kidnapped four European tourists visiting Ecuador's Cuyalwno ncological ri·s1·rv1•. Tile oil worknrs were inslalling u pipdin,~ in tlw province of Sucumbios, :{() miles l'rorn tho Colombian bonlPr, and were b(1ing guardml by four Enmdornan soldinrs wh1\n they WPrP ambushed on Saturday hy about 25 arnwd assailants, regional commander Col. Luis Hamirnz told The i\ssociall'd l'r11ss. Ilo said orm Fcuadornan s<,ldior was kill1•d during t!w attack, which 1•11d1•d with ilw arnwd grnup taldug the /\nwrican and Canadians hostago_ Hamirez said tlw hostages WP re 1~mployc<1s of a Canadian con­tracting company. Unil<'d Pipelinns Systems. 
U.N. criticizes Taliban religious 
army for abusing women 
ISl.1\MABAD, Pakislan 
Tlw United Nations human rights investigator harshly criticized Afghanistan's Taliban reli­gious army Sunday for tho widespread, system­atic and ollkially sanctioned abuse of women. Accusing tlHi Taliban's Ministry of Vice and Virtue of deep discrimination against women Hadhika Coornaraswarny, the U.N. Special Happorlllur on Violence Against Women. called for intnmalional pressure to force its dissolu­tion. "Till' ~inistry of' Vice and Virtue is the most misogynist departnrnnt in the whol1i world." Coomaraswamy told reporters at the Pm! of a two-wnek investigation. The ministry has oannnd wo11wn from working and going to school. It forct~s thr.m to wear the all-encom­passing burqua outfit. ll demands they travel ouL<;idn their home only in the company of close male rnlativr.s. 
Health officials investigate fourth encephalitis death 
NEW YOHK 
i\ fomth death is !wing investigated in an out­brnak of mosquito-bonw l'ncnphalitis that had workPrs spraying insecticide across the city Sunday, irwluding in Cl~ntral Park. A 79-year­old woman who diPd Saturday was among 10 1ww susprrlt'd cases of St. Louis 11ncephalitis, Mayor Budolph (;iuliani said Sunday. Blood samplr•s from ,ill l O an• h1iing s1mt to a Cenlnrs !'or l>isPas,• Control lab in lknver for t11sting and at !Past XO othPr potPntial caiws are under inwstigalion. I I Paith ol'licials have conlirmml ni1w rnsns ol' SL l.ouis Pncnphalitis in New York City. i11cludi11g lllrlH! d1iaths. Ciuliani said Sunday that tlw mosquito ttradication program "will conlirnw citywide until wn am satislied that the sourcrn, of Sl.E hav11 bnen found and PliminaWrL" TIH\ ins1wticide being sprayed, malathion. is safo. ollkials said, bul tlrny rocom­mPm!Pd that p1iopln and pets remain indoors l'or two to llmw hours aft(•r thn spraying. 
l.Eiiillitttmw»I 
/)ow AMEX: 
805. 95 JONES I L92 
Nasd:111:
-50.97 
281-17.06 •35 04 
NYSE:
JJ 622.90 •O.'ll 
S&I' 500: ComtJositc 
Voluml':
1351.66
11028.43 ,.mo 773,800,000 
VOLUME LEADERS 
~2:!ltt.!!!  TlS:ll!lt  '  CIIAJIQ5  I £e!!i•  !!l!il  
hJlAL,-tUJOU"!'K co,  •.c  -21 . .,,  ~~. ll50  ~.n  
COIIPAO CONPUTl:11 tl&LL COHPUT&R.  CPQ D&Ll,  •!I.Ell +1.,0  +2,J!!IIJ5 •O. 61!50  25: .19 0,'55  
UIPLIDnfl. INC:' NIClflO.OFT COllP'  "''".....  •20.9!11 -.1 ,Oil  . l.1250 .o.n1s  ll • .25 !IS.00  
INTI!,. COili'  INTC  •.U  -.)700  81, JB  
ITAPLIHI INC oucL1. coa:r  S'Pt9 O~CL  +t. 5'1 .,.a6  •l.8125 . 2,]175  l(I,15 H,38  
f'UIQAUI TZC:H AMTJI ITltCH INC'  i'AlJt .,,...  . ll ,6?.~,.24.  •2.)&00•o. ,no  l~.&8 L:U  

EAST TIMOR 

. International peacekeeping force approved; details unclear 
Associated Press 
JAKARTA, Indonesia 
Under intense interna­tional pressure, Indonesia announced Sunday it would allow an international peacekeeping force lo rnstore order lo the devas­tated territory of East Tiinor. 
Ilowevnr, it was unclear what typ11 of force would be snnt to the territory and how soon it would arrive. 
President Clinton, in New Zealand for a meeting of Asia-Pacific leaders, said Monday that the peace­keeping mission would rnquire "some presence on 
RUSSIA 
Troops seize control of two villages 
the ground" by U.S. forces. the world horrified by the 
"But no one has asked us slaughter sweeping East for combat troops," Clinton Timor. told reporters. The recent bloodshed 
He said U.S. forces would started after 78.5 percent largely serve in a support of East Timorese voted to role, including pilots and break away from lndrmesia 
planes  to  in the bal­ 
fly other nations'  "No one can get to  lot. Since then, pro­ 
ground troops into East Timor.  these people. They have no food, shelter  Jakarta militias with the  
U 11  t i l  or medicine."  active sup­ 
11  0  W  ,  port  of  
lndorrnsia -and par­ticularly its  Pat Burgess U. N. aid worker  Indonesia's military and police have  
hard-line  waged  a  
military  - campaign of  

had defiantly refused to terror against East Timor's pcrmil outside forces into people and U.N. staff. the former Portuguese Aid agencies estimate colony. insisting as late as that between 600 and Saturday night that it could 7,000 people huve been quell the violence itself. killed and as many us 
However, that stance 300.000 have fled their crumpled under pressure homes. from governments around Much of the capital, Dili. 
Makhachkalu. lie said Russian troops controlled 99 percent of nearoy Chabanmakhi. 
Police und riot troops there were moving house to house to clear out rema111111g rebels. Mukarov said. The under­ground tunrwls apparently remained in reoel hands. 
Hussian news reports said federal troops raised Hussian flags around Chabanmakhi. Casualti1is were unclear. 
In other fighting in the region, Russian jets bombed six villages in 
has been reduced to rubble and ashes by the rampag­ing militiamen. 
U.N. oflicials say tens of thousands of people have fled lo camps in Indonesian-governed West Timor. 
More than 100,000 have taken refuge in East Timor's mountainous inte­rior, foraging for bananas and roots. 
"No one can get to these people. They have no food, shelter or medicine," said Pal Burgess, an aid worker at the besieged U.N. mis­sion in Dili. 
In a national television address, President ILi. Habibie said he wanted to end the crisis that began Aug. 30. 
"Too many pnople have lost their lives since the beginning of the unrnst ­lost their homes and securi­ty," he said. 
neighboring Chechnya after rebels in western Dagestan shot down a Hussian helicoptnr Saturday, according to Chechen authorities. The strik1i destroyed snvcral homes and killnd at least ontl family, they said. 
Hussian Interior Ministry spokesman Mikhail Arkhipov suid bombs could have landed on the Chechen villages, which are located near the Dagcstani border, but claimed Hussia was tar­geting militants, not set­tlements. 
As.ociated Press 
MAKI IACI IKALA 
Hussian troops hoisted nags Sunday over an area where they have been fighting lshimic militants for more than a month. claiming they had dis­lodged the reboJs from two village strongholds in the southern republic of Dagestan. 
The Hussians have seized control of the vil­lages of Karamakhi and Chabanmakhi before. but lost them to the 'tenacious 
rebels, who have built tunnels and fortified entrenchments to resist government forces. 
The militants took ovcH several villages in Dagestan last year and implemented their strict interpretation of the Koran_ 
After Russian jets and artillery pounded the mili­tants Sunday, federal troops fully controlled Karamakhi by evening. said Sergei Makarov, spokesman for the mili­tary command in nagestan's capital, 
page 6 Thr Obsrrver . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, September 13, 1999 
PUERTO RICO 
Former prisoners return home 
• Islanders give freed prisoners hero's welcome 
Associated Press 
SAN JUAN 
Crowds waving flags and chanting nationalist hymns hailed a group of pardomid pris­oners at San Juan airport Saturday, as some leaders warned that the controversy surrounding their release could hurt the island. 
"These people aro not terror­ists. They are heroes, and we support them I 00 percent, "_said Leonore Munoz Gomez, 59, objecting to the widespread condemnation in the United Stales of President Clinton's offer of clemency for 16 pro­independence militants. 
Eleven were freed Friday after some 20 vears behi.nd bars. Two prisoners rejected the offer, one accepted a deal to serve live more years and two who had already served out jail sentences were forgiven out­standing fines. 
The act invited new criticism of Clinton, jeopardized his wife's nascent run for the Senate and underscored the complicated relationship between Washington and the island some still call a U.S. colony. Critics have said Clinton was being soft on terrorism: The prisoners were convicted of sedition and illegal possession of weapons in connection with 130 bombings in the 1970s and 1980s that killed six people and maimed dozens. 
Nine of thosfl freed havP. opted to live in Puerto Rico, and seven had arrived by Saturday. Two more wern expected Sunday. The other two chose to return lo families in Chicago. 
"Rienvenidos a casa!" ­"Welcome home!" -supporters yelled at the 
A beaming Carmen Valentin told the crowd she felt "intense happiness" to "put my l'eet on this sacred ground." Dylcia Pagam. the fourth, said she was "very anxious to integrate myself into my community." Adolfo Matos said the probation constrictions had "converted my cell to invisible bars." 
They left in separate cars. Plans for a big party wNe scratched because of the parole 
conditions. 
airport, even Last to
"These people are not 
though only arrive was
terrorists. They are
one of the Elizam arrivals was heroes, and we support Escobar, a born on the graphic artist
them I oo percent."
island. The from New others were York City, who born in the Leonore Munoz Gomez said they 
U.S. main­Puerto Rican citizen would fight for 
land, where about 2 mil­lion Puerto Hicans live, com­pared to nearly 4 million here. 
The ex-prisoners met for sev­eral hours in an airport transit lounge, exploiting a technicality allowing them to be together there without violating parole conditions that forbid them to associate with convicted felons, including each other. Then, they came out one by one. 
"Viva Puerto Rico!" the crowd screamed as Ida Luz Rodriguez walked out and thanked them "for all your work and for bring­ing us home." When she left, her sister Alicia came forward to announce simply: "Here lam." 
the release of 
three remain­ing Puerto Rican prisoners and for independence. 
He said the prisoners accept­ed the clemency deal as "the most beneficial to the struggle for independence and that, despite the onerorn; conditions imposed on us, we are going to do everything possible ... to build a new front for the strug­gle." 
Hilton Fernandez -a former member of the Macheteros guerrilla group who did prison time for the $7.1 million rob­bery of a Wells Fargo armored truck in Connecticut in 1983 ­said the parole conditions were "for criminals." 
YUGOSLAVIA 
Rebel army ends two days of sectarian riots 
Associated Press 
KOSOVSKA MITROVlCA 
The Kosovo Liberation Army on Saturday managed to stop two days of rioting in this divid1~d town, telling ethnic Albanians to avoid trouble as NATO and the United Nations finalize plans to transform the former rebel army. 
Instead, the KLA called for an "organized protest" in the northwestern Kosovo city of Kosovska Mitrovica on Sunday. 
About 60 ethnic Albanians assembled for a third day Saturday morning at the bridge over the !bar River ­the scene of rioting Thursday and Friday which left 184 eth­nic Albanians, Serbs and French pc.acckecpers injured and one Albanian dead. 
The ethnic Albanians have been demanding free access to the Serb-controlled north bank of the river. Serbs refuse to allow free movement, citing security fears. The French have enforced a division of the city to prevent ethnic violence. 
Before trouble could start Saturday, however, about eight KLA offtcers dressed in black uniforms moved through the crowd, ordering them to dis­perse. Other KLA members roamed through the city, tear­ing down posters encouraging residents to join in the protest. 
"We won't allow borders in 
Mitrovica." said Nairn Mif'tari, 
a KLA ollicer, denying that the 
KIA was responsible for orga­
nizing the protests. "But if the 
border remains, no doubt the 
war will start again." 
As tensions eased, the 
French allowed an ethnil.: 
Albanian man, woman and 
child to cross the bridge 
Saturday to return to their 
home in the Serb-controlled 
part or the city. They were 
turned back by Serbs, howev­
er. 
In Helgrade, a major Serbian opposition party blamed the KLA l'or provoking "the Albanian rampag11 in Kosovska Mitrovica" and accused the ·former rebels of promoting "monstrous, Nazi-type ideas to ethnically cleanse Kosovo and 
create 'Greater Albania."' 
"Not only Serbian people ... 
but all democratic principles of 
Europe and the world are in 
jeopardy in Kosovo," the 
Serbian Renewal Movement 
said. 
More than 50 angry Serbs on 
Saturday blocked the main 
road between Kosovska 
Mitrovica and Montenegro to 
demand that peacekeepers 
prevent ethnic Albanians from 
using the highway. Danish 
peacekeepers were trying to 
calm the situation. 
WE WANT TO KNOW: 
WHAT DO YOU THINK 
NOTRE DAME'S POLICY REGARDING SWEATSHOPS 
OUT TO BE? 
Attend the Symposium/Course 
"CATHOLIC TEACHING, SWEATSHOPS, AND NOTRE DAME" 
This is a symposium open to the entire community and also a course that students may take for credit (CST 303; IIPS 481; THEO 381 for one credit; by arrangement with Professor Todd Whitmore for three credits). No prerequisites. Requirement: a paper answering the question: What should Notre Dame's policies be regarding the workplace practices of its licensees?" 
TONIGHT, 7:00-8:30 at the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. Topic: The Major Actors in the Sweatshop Debate Presenters: Carol Kaesbier, General Counsel, UNO; Fair Labor Association William Hoyle, Counsel, UNO; Chair, Task Force, UNO 
STUDENTS CAN STILL REGISTER FOR THE CLASS 
For Further information contact Professor Todd Whitmore: Whitmore.1@nd.edu 
Sponsors: University Task Force on Anti-Sweatshop Initiatives, Program in Catholic Social Tra~ition, Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, Department of Theology, Higgins Labor Resource Center 
Monday, September 13, 1999 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
-:::::::-.:::-.:::-__ 
.-·~ .-·~
1 r ~~ cross Miss,.-1~:
;;•,~o ~ 
O');~ 

in Coachella, California 
January 3-10,2000 
Nuestra Senora de Soledad Parish Coachella, California 
• 
experie11ce small Christian communities 

• 
dyuamic Latino church leadership 

• 
s1>ecial programs involving youth and the poor 

• 
daily group 1m1yer and rcnectio11 

• 
live in Parish family homes 


Informational Meeting Wednesday, Sept. 15, 7:30-8:00pm or Thursday, Sept. 16, 7:30pm-8:00pm 
Coffee House-Center for Social Concerns 

*some knowledge of Spanish or experience of Latino culture required 
CENTER FOR 
-(?MPUS
SOCIAL 
Sponsored by Campus Ministry and
CONCERNS MINl51RYThe Center for Social Concerns 
Tobacco Research and Marketing: When Science and Business Collide 
Dr. Victor DeNoble 
I • 
Washington Hall MONDAY 7:30 PM September 13, 1999 

The Use of Addiction to Maintain a Market. 
Dr. DeNoble is a former research scientist for Phillip Morris. His work on the "safe cigarette" is part of the Justice Department examination of the business practices of the tobacco companies. He will discuss how business concerns, liability, politics and science can be at odds in the business of tobacco. 
For more information, please call 631-7970 or 631-5829. 
There is no charge for this presentation. 

GERMANY 
Public takes first look at new capital project 
clash evident in once-divided
Associated Press 
Berlin. 
For one of the men who 
BERLIN packed the politicians' 
The government on Sunday belongings, the movo itself' 
gave Berliners a chance tu was a sign that tho nation is 
pe~k behind the scenes of one growing together. 
of the world's largest con• "We worked togothcr with 
struction projects as Germany colleagues frnm Ernst and 
continued the massive process west," said Michael Eichorn, 
of moving its government who sat next to Schroednr at 
back to its historic capital. the breakfast Sunday. /\mung 
Chancellor Gerhard Eichorn's packing jobs: mak­Schroeder apologized fur Urn ing sure the parliament's disturbance all the work is 7,500 bottles of wine made causing in Berlin. where the the trek in one piece. skyline is obscured by cranes, Many government ministries and the din of have yet to jackhammers actually
"We don't want to
often fills the move in to
be guests in Berlin: 
air. thoir new But politi­we want to be a part quarters ­cians and which range
ofBerlin."
civil serv·ants from l'uturis­intend to feel ti c, sleek at home, he Gerhard Schroeder structures to 
said. Chancellor of Germany the harsh, 
"We don't vertical lines want to be ol' old Nazi guests in Berlin, we want to buildings that arc getting be a part of Berlin," facelifts. Schroeder said at a breakfast Over the weekend, those outside his temporary quar­lucky enough to get one of the ters, the former home of East free tickets for the public 
Germany's communist lead­could tour the government ers. buildings. 
Schroeder put words into At the Finance Ministry, action Sunday, serving coffee housed in the former Nazi air to breakfast guests as other force building, visitors peeked Cabinet ministers handed out at the piggy banks lining huge weisswursts, or white Finance Minister Hans sausages. Eichel's desk. Those who 
The government completed toured the Chancellor's tem­
fts 300-mile move from Bonn porary quarters saw over the summer and is now Schroeder's office -complete governing from Berlin for the with two pictures of his wife, first time since the Nazi era. Doris. Germany's parliament, the At the Foreign Ministry, visi­Bundestag, held its first ses­tors got a chance to see the sion in the restored Reichstag work in progress on a new 
last week, and Schroeder wing being built in front of began his work in Berlin last the former Nazi central bank, month. the Hcichsbank. A stark con­
Politicians have hailed the trast to the imposing, boxy move as a way to bring structure behind, the huge, together Germany's west and glass-enclosed atrium will be formerly communist east, open to the public and house causing the government to a cafe and library as well as confront firsthan<l the culture offices. 

Discover Financial Services, Inc. a business unit of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co., operates all Discover Brands with more than 46 million cardmembers and the . Discove~/Novus Network•. The network is the largest independent credit card network in the United States with more than 3 million merchant and cash access locations. We are currently seeking individuals with experience in any of the following areas: 
COBOL ¦ CICS ¦ VSAM ¦ DB/Z ¦ JCL C ¦ C++ ¦ JAVA ¦ ORACLE ¦ UNIX ASSEMBLER ¦ WINDOWS 95/NT ¦ OOP PU1 ¦ DATA WAREHOUSING ¦ O5./Z 
01sceVEI\
Please join us at the: 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE NAME bOll Ollh ~010 ~ 
J 1,. MEIi
INDUSTRY DAY 
FITZPATRICI< HALL 
Wednesday, September ZZnd 

J,~:s lf,n•p
•1:lilJ. _..__ •.J•
10:00am-4=00pm 
,:::.•,-r..-::wrr~ 
.. ~I We offer a wide array of workplace amemlies 1ncludmg excellent salaries and benefits, 401 K, profit sharing, tuition reimbursement, fitness center and a 
casual dress environment. If unable to attend, please send your scanable resume to: 
Discover Financial Services, Inc. Human Resources, fT Recruiter 2500 Lake Cook Road,¦ Riverwoods, IL 60015 Fax: f847J 405-1388 
Visit our Web Site at: 
www.novusnet.com 
EOEMIF/ON
1@51!,II 
page 8 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, September 13, 1999 
ALGERIA 
Violent past still haunts citizens 
. Controversial prisoner release spurs criticism 
~ociatcd Press 
ALGIERS 
· For Geroudy Mass·ouda. the decision by Algeria's new pres­ident to pardon thousands of people jailed for supporting Islamic insurgents is nothing but a cruel joke. 
Under the plan that aims to 
1 end seven years of violence in Algeria, the religious militants responsible for tho 19% killing of her 28-year-old son, Noureddine, will be released soon from prison. Although the public seems to support President Abdelaziz Boutcflika's peace efforts, feel­ings of pain, bitterness and indignation haunt many Algerians struggling to cope with their grief and loss. The ammisty was approved by parliament in July but must be endorsed by voters in a ref­erendum Thursday. It is part of a step-by-step plan for bringing "civil concord" and an end to the Islamic uprising that began in 1992 after the secu­larist army canceled parlia­mentary elections that Muslim political parties were poised to win. There are concerns among some that the fast pace toward 
national reconciliation since deaths. Hundreds of Algerians Bouteflika. a former foreign -mainly families of victims ­minister. was elected president demonstrated almost daily out­April 15 could be destabilize side tho legislature as it debat­the North African nation. ed the amnesty plan. 
The releases of Islamic The victims of the conflict activists began even before the have mostly been civilians with peace plan was put to the pub­no clear political affiliation, 
lic. A few dozen militants were many slaughtered in village the first to be pardoned in massacres with hatchets and July, freed from an Algiers jail knives, some by car bombings, to coincide with the anniver­others in street shootings, 
sary of the  The govern­ 
Arab coun­try's 1962 indepen­dence from France. "Does the  "Does the government seriously expect us to justforgive andforget, to embrace the criminals  ment blames Islamic mili­tants for most of the blood­shed. But opposition and  
government seriously  with open arms?"  human rights groups have  
expect us to just forgive aud forget,  Geroudy Massouda mother of terrorist victim.  accused gov­ernment secu­rity forces of  

to embrace the crimi­nals with open arms? It's a cruel joke, that's what it is," Massouda said angrily. 
The amnesty and reduction of prison terms does not cover those who actually carried out killings, bombings and rapes. However. that seems irrelevant to the 60-year-old woman. 
"Supporters of murderers are murderers by substitu­tion," she said. 
Massouda is not alone in rejecting such an end to one of the bloodiest conflicts in the Arab world, which Bouteflika estimates has caused 100,000 contributing to 
the violence in an efforl. l.o eradicate Islamic extremists considered danger­ous by authorities. 
Bouteflika has threatened to resign if tho Algerian people reject his proposal, but he expresses confidence the amnesty will pass. 
Algerians are "mature enough to know where the country's best interest lay," he told the newspaper Liberte in a recent interview. "The lessons derived from their suffering will lead the way and deter­mine their choices and com­mitments." 
CAMBODIA 
Ailing monarch warns nation of failing health 
Associated Press 
PHNOM PENH 
A visibly weak King Norodom Sihanouk told Cambodians on Sunday that his health is failing and he may not have long to live. 
Speaking on national tele­vision, the 76-year-old monarch said periodic con­vulsions antl waning physical strength had forced him to drastically cut back public appearances and remain within the grounds of his palace. 
''Every day I deteriorate physically," Sihanouk said. "I get tired quickly when I move around. Convulsions strike me that could cause me to collapse." 
Celebrate the fall season ~ 
with a change in dining. 
---3 2~ 

. \:l 1' l,Le 
POST-GRADVATE SERVICE FAIR ~ 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Wednesday, September 15 ~~ 
..?o o\'l
6 0 9
: 0 -:00 PM at Stepan Center 
Representatives from the following organizations will be present at this year's Post-Graduate Service Fair. On behalf of the Center for Social Concerns, we would like to thank them for their continued recruitment, training and support of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College students who wish to commit to a year or more of full-time service after graduation. We appreciate the partnerships with these organizations ·and our collaborative work towards the creation of a more just and humane world. 
Don McNeill, CSC · Andrea Smith Shappell 
Executive Director, Center for Social Concerns Director, Senior Transition Programs, Center for Social Concerns 
Domestic. Faith-Based Programs 
A.L.I.V.E Alaska Radio Mission -KNOM Amate House. Apostolic Volunteers Associate Missionaries of the Assumption Bon Secours Volunteer Ministry Boys Hope/Girls Hope Canipus Ministry Internship -ND Capuchin Franciscan Vol. Corps -Midwest Capuchin Franciscan Vol. Corps -East Capuchin Youth and Family Ministries Carmelite Volunteer Community Catholic Charities -Baltimore 
Channel Program Christian Appalachian Project Claretian Volunteers & Lay Missionaries Covenant House Faith Community Earthworks Edmundite Mission Corps FrancisCorps Franciscan Outreach Association Franciscan Volunteer Ministry FranciscanVolunteer Program 
Domestic.Faith-Based Programs, cont. 
Franciscans for the Poor Good Shepherd Volunteers Habitat for Humanity Holy Cross Associates Holy Cross Vocations Office Humility of Mary Service Jesuit Volunteer Corps L' Arche LaSallian Volunteers Marist Volunteer Program Mercy Corps Milford Spiritual Center NET Ministries Passionist Lay Missioners Providence Volunteer Ministry Redeemer Ministry Corps Share Foundation with the Handicapped Society of Our Lady/Most Holy Trinity Ursuline Companions in Mission VIDA Volunteer Program Vincentian Service Corps -East Vincentian Service Corps -Central Volunteers in an Act of Hope 
Teaching Programs 
Alliance for Catholic Education Ignatius Loyola Academy Inner-City Teaching Corps 
New Orleans Volunteer Service NY Teacher Service Program Red Cloud Volunteer Program ResponseAbility VESS 
International Programs 
Associate Missionaries / Assumption Finca Del Nino 
Maryknoll ~ China Teaching Maryknoll Lay Missionaries ND Program in Puerto Rico QUEST Volunteer Missionary Movement 
Non-Church Related Programs 
Americorps -lst Century Scholars Peace Corps Rose Hill Center Teach for America 
Monday, September 13, 1999 The Observer . NEWS page 9 
Exiles' protests cause concert cancellation 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 
Thn first Miami concert 
srhndulnd by a popular 
dancn band l'rom Cuba was 
cunndcd after complaints 
from anti-Castro Cuban 
r.xili•s. inrluding tlw city's 
Cuban-/\mPrican mayor. 
Tim privatn company that 
runs tlw 1·.011rnrl hall dcl'idl'd 
011 1-'riday lo cancnl llw hand 
l.os Van Van's Oct. I) show 
aflPr a 11urry of c11mplai11ts. 
1\ftpr llw band's concert 
was an11ounc1HI Wndrwsday, 
Spanish-language radio sta­
tions urgnd listnn«>rs to flood 
City" II a 11 wi lh 1·0111 µlain ts. 
l.ocal ll•adPrs also urgnd rns­
idt>nls to opposP tlw show. 
"This is tlw official 
Communist band of Fid1d Castro," said Miami Mayor Joe Carollo. 
The band ·s New York label, llavana Caliente, plans lo go to court Monday to rnschcdulr. the concert, "We won't sit still and take it." said labnl president Maria Zenoz. 
"There's no Miami excep­tion to the First i\mnndnwnt," said .John de I.non, an attonrny who heads the /\mnrican Civil Liberties Union's '.Vliami ol'ficP. 
Tim politics of Cuban exiles hav11 intluencncl local r.vents bef'orn, including the preven­tion or a Pan-American Games in tlrn county and the cnnc1d lation of a MID EM Amnricas music industry party fast year because Cuban musicians were to have played. 
NEW ZEALAND 
Clinton warns Russia of corruption 
The two leaders also dis­
Associated Press 
cussed arms-control issues, Russia's economic woes and AUCKLAND 
the battle by Russian forces 
President Clinton warned 
against Islamic rebels in the 
Sunday that corruption and 
southern 
money-laundering "could eat 
republic of 
the heart 
Dagestan. "The president said he develop a 
out of 
Clinton cooperative
Russian 
wants to see this problemassured Putin approach of society" that the dealt with ... because it 
dealing wilh 
unlnss the 
United States could eat the heart out of tlrn problem." 
govcrn­
"would con­Berger said. A 
m e n t Russian society. " 
tinue to sup­tnam of J'orcnfully port the Hussian 
combats 
direction of Sandy Berger experts is du11 
thn prob-
democracy in 
National Security Adviser in the Unitnd
lem. Clinton 
were some political dimensions to it," Berger said. 
"But he acknowledged that money-laundtiring problems exist in Hussia, as in other r,ountries, and that we must 
the form in Russia that he has supported for the last 6 1/2 years," National Security Advisr.r Sandy Berger said. 
For his part. Putin said cor­ruption was a matter of con­cern. but suggested "there 
Slatf~s to meet with FBI offi­cials on the problem. 
Berger said it was signilicant that Putin recognized thf1 money-laundering problmn. 
Several ltussians have been linked to an alleged money­laundering scheme at the Bank of New York. where $Hl billion or morn may have passed through accounts ille­gally, according lo U.S. news­paper reports. 
In addition, Swiss and Hussian prosecutors havn been investigating whether the Swiss firm Mabell1x paid mil­lions of dollars in kickbacks in connection with a contract to rnnovate the KrPmlin. According to nnwspap11r reports. a snnior Kremlin of'fi­ci al recnived more than $1 million. and subsequently made Urn money available to President Boris Yeltsin and his family. Tim Kremlin has said that Yeltsin did nothing wrong. 
Putin said Yeltsin was pm­pared to sign a law to combat money-laundering if it correct­ed "constitutional clef1cim1cies" that prompted him to veto an earlier measure. 
"The president said hn wants to see this problem dealt with, hopes that Hussia will deal with it. because it could cat the heart out of Russian soci1-1ty, if' the problem of corruption is not dealt with," Berger said. "lie said he wants Hussia to be strong." 
On arms control, Putin bluntly said that ratification of the long-stalled STAHT II arms-reduction treaty "would be difficult" but that he said "we're trying our best," Berger said. For years. Yeltsin and other officials have spo­ken optimistically about thr. treaty's chances, but it has remainr.d sidelined. 
"lie thought there was some wavering among thP. opposi­tion to STAHT II and that we should continue our discus­sions on STAHT Ill {a proposed treaty for ,wen deeper nuclear cuts) whir.h would facilitate ratification of STAHT II." Berger said. 
At Clinton's urging, the United States and Hussia are discussing possibln changes in tile landmark AntiBallistic Missile Treaty which limits both countries from dnve lop• ing anti-missile systems. Clinton argues that a limited missile dPfons1~ system is nendcd to protect against pos­sible attack by rogun nations or terrorists. 
Putin said he undcrnstands Clinton's concerns but that they must be addrnssed in a way that takes into acccount the security concnrns of otbnr countries. Russia has opposed development of an American anti-missile program. 
Clinton raised the warning in a meet­ing with Hussia Prime Minister Vladimir Putin before they both attended the opening of the annual Asia-Pacil'ic Economic Cooperation forum. 


VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 
page 10 BSERVER Monday, September 13, 1999 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Bo, Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDimR IN CHIEF Michelle Krupa 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogero  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Pecelle  

NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughcn 
SPORTS EDITOR: Brian Kes.sler 
SCENE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas 
SAINT MA.RY'S EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie 
PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalum 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Bryan Lutz 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Bret Huclac 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushto 
CONTROLLfR: Timothy Lane 
GRAJ•mcs EDITOR: Joe M.ueller 
CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO.............63 l ·7471 FAX................................................. ..........631-6927 ADVERTISING...............,.....................631-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AsST, ME...... .............631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu V!EWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu 

SPORTS 
·································631-4543 observer.spons. l@nd.edu 
ScENE ... 
································631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARv's........................ , ................... 631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS.................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at http://observer.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, fearures and opinion columns, as well as canoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up·to-rhe 
movies/music for 
minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 
online features for spe­
and rares of print ads 
cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 
about The Observer 
articles published after 
to meet the editors and 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe students of rhe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saine Mary's College. Editorial content is nm governed by policies of the adminisrration ofeither institution. Acting as pub­lisher ofThe Observer, the administration of the University ofNorre Dame du Lac prohibirs rhe adver· tisemem ofalcohol and The Observer's acceptance of advenisements from specified types ofgroups. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and depanmem editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views ofrhe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is enrnuraged. 
QUt'stions regarding Observer policies should be direct­ed to Edzror m Ch~fM1chel.k Krupa. 
Following my last column, I received several entirely anticipated hostile e­mails and letters, not a one of which minced words in sharing opinions of me. "You're just a stupid woman" was the most frequent com­ment I heard, but Kate Rowland the comment "You're too hard­
Read this. 
nosed and aren't 
It may save
open to discussion" 
your life. 
was close behind. 
That's just plain insulting. I take pride in being open to discussion. Discussion is vital to an open and intellectual state of being. In the interests of furthering such a state of being, I present to the Notre Dame com­munity the following questions. Read them. Think about them. Discuss them with your friends, classmates, and pro­fessors. Let these questions enlighten you and bring you to a higher existence. Try not to fight about them. Arguments I try to stimulate. Fistfights I do not abide. 
Who on earth looks at a hunk of moz­zarella cheese and says, "Gee, I should bread this and fry it"? And who goes and markets that to restaurants and din­ing halls as a cheese stick? And who eats that fried, breaded mozzarella? We don't do that to cheddar, do we? Of course not! That's because it's weird and cruel to fry cheese. 
While I'm on the subject ... what are the origins of meat? Who looks at a cow and says, "Gee, I should kill this thing and eat its muscle tissue"? And who else, upon seeing tliis idea put into prac­tice, says, "Hey, we should probably put that muscle tissue in the fire for awhile before we eat it"? How long did it take us to figure out that eggs are better cooked than raw? Why don't we eat acorns anymore? 
Are clouds really flat on the bottom, or do they just look like they are? How lazy do you really have to be to use an electric stapler? I'm not talking 
about the kind capable of stapling hun­dreds of pages together; I'm talking about the kind that staple three or four pages together automatically with no effort required on the part of the stapler operator other than sticking the papers in the stapler. 
Ifyou die in church, do you go straight to heaven? How about if you drown in holy water? 
What happens if you're at Confession and you're confessing along and just as you get to the part about hooking up with an MBA student after a late night at Senior Bar, the priest falls over dead of a heart attack? Is that your fault? Would you have to confess that the next time you went to Confession? Or would you be absolved of the sin of killing a priest by virtue of having done so while at Confession? 
Which would be neater: Ifthey found oil under the old bookstore construction site or if they found dinosaur bones? How about if they found a Potawatomi settlement? That would give those Badin women something to gripe about. 
What is the average depth of an avalanche? 
Ifyou are the Chief of Police in a mid­size midwestern city and you are arrest­ed for drunk driving, do you think the best course of action to take following your arrest would be to criticize the police department for its handling of the case'? Or would it really be better to keep your mouth shut and cut your loss­es? 
How much cif a numbskull do you have to be to drive drunk anyway? 
If you were a doctor researching a strange disease that affiicts many people and you managed to come up with a set of symptoms or a cause for this disease, would you really want your colleagues to name that disease after you? ( mean, how do you think Little Susie Alzheimer feels every time they study Alzheimer's disease in biology class? 
How do you justify using masculine pronouns for God'? 
What will Notre Dame be like in the year 3000? Will we be allowed to eat in Debartolo in a thousand years? Or will a nuclear war in 2458 render it a moot point'? Take into consideration how much has changed since 1000. Will there be anything even reminiscent of what we experience today in 3000'? 
Speaking of old things -you know the Grand Canyon'? Isn't that amazing'? I've never actually seen it, but think about what it takes to make something like that. Go back to when that was nothing but desert. Then a little creek begins to grow. Eventually it turns into a raging river that erodes and erodes and erodes. Before you know it, you have the Grand Canyon. Isn't that just incredible? 
At the beginning of the year, CBLD handed me a list of international calling codes. Included in the list was Antarctica. Several questions arise from this: Who am I going to call in Antarctica, and what's the number down there? This is something I really wonder about and have searched for the answer to and cannot find. I can't be the only person who wonders about things like this. If you have suffered from curiosity about this and have sati­ated it with knowledge, please let me know. I will put your answer in my next column and Antarctica will be flooded by phone calls from Domers trying out their CBLD calling abilities. 
Which will, of course, just provoke more discussion between us up here and those scientists frozen down south. And the purpose of this column will have been served. 
Kate Rowland is a senior pre-med and Spanish major with a minor in science, technology and values. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 

WHAT COULD 'l'OU DO WITH HALF THI':> 
Af"\OUNT? E 
8 
t: 
~ 

L...,:i;;;.;:;:;:;;::l:J,.L..___.J.!:....LJ..J.._Jiu....::m......."-----'--U..1--....liu.....i;;;.;.;..w------'--'-&...1.--J 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Lonely people talking to each other can make each other lonelier. " 
Lillian Hellman 
....-----------------------------------~---------~----­
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 
Monday, September 13. 1999 BSERVER page 11 
~=========-=-=============-====-===============-==================-====-===============-================
----_-=:-::__:-:-:__ 
Me and the 
F-word 
l'w hrn\n a student at Notrn Dame for thrne weeks now, and sornnhow I gN tlw sonsn that I don't lit in. Ordinarily. I wouldn't cam. but evcrywhnre I go. I hear thn l;•word. It's a word that donsn't offend mil unless I'm its intnnrkd victim. Most of tho limo, I hear tho F-word in 
Vt!ry huslmd t111ws, likn tlm pnoplo who u~m it don't want m1) to know that llwy'rc saying it, bul I lrnar thmn anyway. Some brazen people come straight out and hurl Urn F­word at me. Of' wurs11, the word I'm talking about is l••ll-E-S-11-M-A-:\J. 
The <'xtrPniely weird thing is, I'm a 
Mike Marchand 
Questionable Freedoms 
_junior_ I don't 1wtm look like a freshman. I moan. admit 
it. l'n•shnwn. sonw of you !and you know who you are) 
arn practically drnpnd in the word frnshman. The 1:wra 
of rrnshman-nr.ss racliatus from you. Some l'rm;hmen 
w1mr tlwir l'rosh drapPry liko a badg<• of' honor. flow 
many of' you have seen l'r1ishnrnn, stunding motionlessly 
in a shirt that says something like "HidgHville lligh Class 
of ''J'J" holding a campus map. wondoring why the 
Stepan Ctmtor and Stnpan Chmnistry IIall are on differ­
ent mids of campus'! i\nd you mumbhi the F-word, and 
d1\sr.rVt\dly so. al those freshmen who blatantly r.xude 
tlll'ir frr.shman-ncss. 
But I don't. OK. this IS my first ynar at Notre Dame, l'VPtl though l sp1•11! two y1!ars at lloly Cross (that small­ish campus bl'lW<'l'll Saint .Joseph's lligh School and Saint :vtary's). And I Dill need to look for O'Shaughnessy llall for about 25 minutPs bt•cause I was too stubborn to bring a campus map LO orientation -that would be TIIANSFEB 1irim1tation. to those of you with th1~ F-word on tlrn tip of'your tongun. But only tlrn handf'ul ofstu­dnnts whom l .shnepishly asked about Urn location of O'Shag knows about that. Everyone else who casually tosses the F-word in my direction has never met or seen nm before. bul immediately see the F-word carved into my fornhead. 
Whal did I do to des,irve this sternotypn? For lhe life of me. I cannot figure it out. It's probably because I con­stantly have thP standard. goofy. freshman-like, lirst­month-at-Notre-Damc-and-jusl-can't-bclieve-it grin on my fac,~. Or it's because I live off-campus and commute, thernby rnducing thr. time I'm actually at Notre Dame by about 18 hours a day. 
But it could be something else. Maybe it's because I'm actually polite in line al South Dining llall, and I don't complain about the food. It might be because I don't actually believe that Zahm's gay. ole, ole-ole-ole. Maybe it's because I don't know why you can't go to the 14th floor in Lhe library. Or that I just noticed a few days ago that the aforementioned O'Shaughnessy Hall has a clock on it or that there's no longer an arcade in the basement of Laf<ortune. Or that it took me a little while to figure out that "ID number" meant "social security number," not "driver's license number" and that that lD is not the same as thti AFS ID you need to access a computer. 
Am I considered an F-word because I don't own every year's edition of The Shirt or I didn't wear this year's to Urn Kansas game? I can't help that; they don't come in my size. Speaking of the game, I didn't throw anything or try to do the wave in the second quarter, and I actual­ly watdwd it ... sobnr. Or that I didn't know that I actual­ly had to pay for football tickets? I thought they were included in tuition or could be charged to my student accounl. The ticket lady actually thought I was a grad student before I told her that I thought I didn't have to pay for my tickel'i out-of-pocket. Then she asked, "Let nm guess. you'ro a freshman?" 
Maybe it's because of my fashion, or lack thereof. After all. I don't wear sandals I don't own anything by Tommy llilfigger-llillfinger-hell, I can't even spell it. Or Abercrombie & Fitch. And I can't stand that stupid "I like girls that w,mr Abercrombie & Fitch" song that everyone around hr.re seems to love so much. I have nothing against girls that wear Abercrombie & Fitch, those of you i\&F ladies, just the song. I don't know what does the littlt1 x means in an on-campus phone number. I thought they all start with one or four. {Ladies, I'll let you write yours down and then explain it to me.) 
I guess what I'm trying to say here is don't use the F­word to sternotype p1wple who don't exactly lit the ND mold, especially ME. And if you see one of those blatant frnshmen with their high school shirt and campus map, help them out. wait until they're out of earshot, then say. "Stupid freshmnn." 
Mikt· Marchand is an off-campus junior En,qlish major whose mother is terrified that he won't get a decent job after gruriuation. 
7Jrn views expressed in this column are those of the attthor and nol necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Administration shows bigotry and fear in ads ban 
When we learned of the policy implemented by tho administration of'systematic discrimination against any advertisen:i'P.nts from GALA, our hearts were deeply saddened and angered. 
One year ago, in an open letter lo the Notre Dame community, the oflicers of the University rejected the addition of sexual orientation to the non-discrimina­tion clause in response to certain legal implications of such a statement. There would be great difficulty they claimed, in differentiating bfltween sexual orien­tation and sexual activity. Instead. the officers decid­nd to adopt a document -the Spirit of Inclusion ­which would embody a new spirit by the administra­tion regarding homosexuals. This verbose and vague document, while well-intended, has no legal stand­ing. The lack of legal protection promise of a supportive. loving atmosphere is just empty words on papur. In reality, the administration sends letters forbidding us to advertisr, our scholar­ships, invite people to our meetings or hold meP-tings autonomously, as any other student group would. Instead of support. we feel quir,tr,d, hiddr.n and oppressed. 
Of courso, this act is also a blatant act. of consor­ship. Obviously, because the University owns the stu­dent paper /Hditor's note.-The Unil!ersity holds approximately 15 percent equity in The Obser11er}. the administration clearly has the right to control its advertisements. Legality is not the question -justice is. Where is the justice in censoring an ad that con­gratulated gay and lesbian students upon their grad­
uation? What is it that makes this 
made us nervous. 't. d · · • d university scared to allow frne 
However, the administration T,te a mmzstratwn sen s inquiry of ideas? And why can a promised that we would not letters forbidding us to adver-group of gay students not assom­encounter discrimination on any tise our scholarships, invite ble while n~n-~:atholic religious 
basic level. "We don't believe there . groups are 111v1ted to gather? We 
is discrimination here," said people to our meetings or hold beg to know what diITerentiates University spokesman D,mnis meetings anonymously. as us from any other student group Moore. on campus. 
The Spirit of Inclusion states that any other student group Moreover, what about corpora-the University strives "to create an would. Instead ofsupport, we tions that advertise in our environment of mutual respect, feel quieted, hidden and Catholic studc:n.t new~pape:? Do 
hospitality, and warmth." However, they have pohcms which might be in such an environment, surely a oppressed. interpreted to be contrary to the 
group of Notre Dame alumni united by their experience as a sexual minority during their years at Notre Dame would be invited to participate in the campus community just as any other alumni group might. The administration has presented the argument that the agenda of GAlA is contrary to the agenda of the Catholic Church. As a group compromised of many conscientious Catholics, we have thus far failed to see how GAI.A or OUTreach ND is contrary to the teachings of the Church. Many members ofthe group espouse per­sonal beliefs in complete harmony with the teachings of the Church. In fact, we see GALA as a beneficial and supportive fellowship between people who have experienced similar trials in their lives. These Domers are just like any other random sampling ­wonderful, successful people, who are largely active Roman Catholics. 
What is clear is that the Spirit of Inclusion's teachings of the Catholic Church? 
Besides being a censorious act of questionable nature, this is a concrete example of why the administration ref'used to guarantee the legal protection of the rights of gay, lesbian and bisexual people here at Notre Dame. It is clear that this university is not one which is prepared to stand up for the rights of its gay people. 
We, yet again, feel out of place and awkward being active in an institution which proscribes ads from the alumni club which will one day likely be our own. This is a clear violation of the Spirit of Inclusion's pro1:1ises. We are excluded. 
L. Matthew Blancett Sophomore 
Morrissey Manor September I 0, 1999 

10. They trust Big Ten oflicials to understand exactly what con­stitutes a touchdown. 
9. In an attempt to psych out the other team by not throwing a pass, they psych themselves out by forgetting to hand off the ball. 
8. Tony Driver forgets that he's on offense and tries to gain nega­tive yardage. 
7. Impressed by his image as a quarterback unafraid to take a hit. Jackson tries Lo run inlo defenders instead of through the holes. 
6. .Joey Goodspeed, aggravated by his last name for some 
unknown reason, tries in earnest to have everything but "good speed." 
5. In Michigan, the offensive line were hit with many false start penalties because they got all excited when they looked up at the scoreboard and saw them­selves on TV. 
4. Bob Davie is so concerned about what cheers the band plays during the game that he forgets to act as head coach of the foot­ball team. 
3. They overlook the field goal kicking talent of one of the dol­phins from from Sea World and start Sanson instead. 
2. Jackson occasionally thinks he is playing basketball and tries to bounce pass the football to the pitch man. 
And the Number One way the ND Football Team Shoots Itself' in the Foot: 
l. Oh sorry. I didn't get a chance 
to finish the last one.  I HAN OUT  
OF TIME.  
Sean Griffin  
Freshman  
Zahm Hall  

Seprember 12, 1999 

O
THE 
page 12 BSERVER Monday, September 13, 1999 

Though there is an indoor no-smoking policy set on campus, butts are found filling ashtrays throughout Notre Dame. 
Passing the cancer sticl< 
To smoke is to relieve the body of unwanted stresses and discomfort. To smoke is also to kill the body and the bodies of ones peers. 
By COURTNEY KERRIGAN 
Scene Writer 
Everyone has been affected by smok­ing at one time or another. For some, smoking is a necessity for surviving the drudgery of everyday life. For others, it is simply an annoyanc_;e tu be dealt with, or maybe even embraced only in social situations. And for a few, smoking is an evil presence that stole away loved ones through Jung cancer, heart disease or other smoking-related diseases. 
These days, one can't make it through junior high without hearing that smok­ing ii; deadly. Teachers and special anti­smoking programs throw statistics at children as young as fourth grade. They tell horror stories of individuals whose lives were changed drastically from the effects of smoking, hoping that they will scare kids into never trying their f'irst cigarette. Public Service Announcements are played during commercial breaks of popular TV shows, advertising that one doesn't have to smoke to be "cool." 
Strangely enough. although the Notre Dame student body is considered to be one of the more intelligent ones in the 
United States, many continue to light up 
before classes, between classes, after 
classes, during study breaks and even 
before bed, even though most are well 
aware of the consequences. Why does 
this happen? One word: Addiction. 
The Surgeon General's report of 1994 
confirmed that the majority of adult smokers were addicted to nicotine by age 20. The amount of cigarettes smoked usually increases in the few years immediately after leaving the con­straints of high school. Those who do not . smoke prior tu high school graduation are unlikely to pick the up the habit in 
college. 
People who began smoking in high 
school, and have continued in college, 
most likely need to smoke for the calm­
ing and stimulating effect of nicotine. 
Nurses Kara Horvath, Diane 
Schlalterbeck and Pai Willkom of the 
Notre Dame Health Center said that 
nicotine is a stimulant, meaning it 
increases the heart rate and blood pres­
sure, and causes blood vessel dilation 
and constriction. 
Longer-term smoking can also 
increase metabolism. cause hyperten­
sion (high blood pressure), stained teeth, premature wrinkles, low birth weights and black lung. It is clear that the disad­vantages of smoking greatly outweigh the advantages. 
When one inhales cigarette smoke, the aerosol reaches the small airways and the alveoli of the lung. The nicotine is quickly absorbed, and within minutes the blood concentration of nicotine rises to a maximum and the smoker can feel the calming affect . 
However, an addiction develops when a tolerance to nicotine forms such that the calming and stimulating effects of smoking become minimal, and higher doses are needed to obtain the desired effect, which is more commonly known as "a buzz." This is apparent when mood, behavior, thought and physiologic function require the continmid presence of nicotine to enable a person to feel normal. 
Unfortunately, prolonged addiction to nicotine not only makes it extremely dif­ficult to quit without a program (such as the patch or a counseling group), but also has been linked to many diseases. Smoking greatly increases a person·s chances of developing coronary heart disease, obstructive pulmonary disease, stroke, cancers of the ·lung, larynx, esophagus, mouth and bladder, and it contributes to the development of can­cers of the cervix, pancreas and kidney. 
In a large study conducted by the American Cancer Society, smokers were: 
. 
22 times as likely to die of lung can­cer, 

. 
27 limes as likely to die of lip, oral or pharyngeal cancer, 

. 
10 times as likely to die of chronic obstructive lung disease and cancer of the larynx, 

. 
eight times as likely to die of esophageal cancer and 

. 
twice as likely to die of heart disease and stroke, 


In 1990, it was determined that 20 percent of all deaths in the United Statr,s could be attributed to smoking. In 1985 health journalist Jacob Su!lum deter­mined that 87 percent of people dying of lung cancer had been long-time smokers during their lives. t\·lost cancers caused by cigarette smoke are at increased rates among regular cigar smokers as well. 
Sadly, smokers are not. the only ones affected by their deadly habit. Those around them are also put at risk when 

------------------------·-------­
NSIDER 
O
THE 
Monday, September 13, 1999 BSERVER Notre Dame ar Purdue 
Brees blows Boilermakers past Irish 
B)' BRIAN KESSLER 
Sports Ediwr 
WI-Sr LAFAYETTE, Ind. 
lf'you don't learn from Lhc past, you'rn 
doomnd to rqrnat it 
Notn• Dn nw ( I -l) le a rnPcl th at Urn 
hard wuy in SaLurday's 28-23 lnss to 
l'urdtH' l2-0I. as it watrhnd tho dor.k run 
uut !'or tlw sncond-straight wenk. 
"ll's disappointing lrncaust1, oncfl 
again. we llf:al oursnlvns," tailback Tony 
Fisher said...W,i'rn right thnre rnady to 
plll tlw hall in and \W didn't capitalize 
on il." 
Trailing laL1\ in tlrn game. tlrn Irish 
pitrnmi t.lw Boi11•rmakors dnep and rrosh­
111a11 Julius .Jonns n~turnerl a punt to thn 
l'urduP 41. Six plays lahir, tlw Irish were 
knocking on the door. faced with first­
and-goal f'rom Urn ()-yard line with onn 
mi11ut1i to play. 
i\l'tPr a rnception and a rush, st•nior 
rullback Joey Goodsp,~l~d took tho Irish to 
tlrn I-yard lino with 16 soconds lo go. 
Following a linwout, tho Irish set up in 
thl' wishho1w and planned to run an iso­
lation play LIi Fislwr. 
TIii' h1ll'kf'i1•ld, however. lward an a11diblP to the option, and Jarious .Jackson was Lacklod for a nine-yard loss. i\s Notrn Damn frantically set up for a l'inal play, the rlock ran out. and Boihirmak1•r fans poured onto the finlcl. 
"It's just miscommunication," Fisher said. "We thought Jarious called one play. and it was rnlalt\d to us as another play. Unfortunately, we didn't gnt the right play in the backliPld." 
Communication was not a problem for 
Purchw !wad c:oat'.h Joe Tiller. 
"I ligun•d tlw last play or Urn game we \Wre going to roll the dice. and I said IPt's blitz thnrn," said Tiller, whose team has now won 1iighl straight. "We're going to take a shot. We're going to give our playPrs a chanc11 lo make a play." 
!lead coach Bob Davie's team never 
had a diance. 
"I Lhought wn did a tremendous job coming rlnwn at tlw end and giving our­Sl'IV!\S a chance with two plays left. wlwre they wouldn't have any tinw to g"t thP ball back." Davie said. "I take rnspor1sibility lhaL W(l didn't havn tlw hacks goi11g Lhn right way." 
EvPrything wPnt Notre Danrn's way ,•arly on. Thn Boikrmakers tllrned ovtir the• ball OVl'r twic1• on its first thrrni plays l'rom scrimmage, and tlH' Irish quickly r.apit.aliwd. Jim Sanson connectod on a 20-yard lil'ld goal, and Jackson scored on a 1!i-yard nm to give the Irish a HJ-0 lnad midway through the first quarter. 
l't1nl11P answerml with a 74-yard drive cap1wd off by a Drew Brnes touchdown run. hut anotlwr .Jackson srnre puslwd thn Irish !Parl to I(,.7. 
l.at11 i11 1.lw s1•e01HI quartf•r. Brnes com­p It'!Pd a :rn-yard touchdown pass to Harnlall Lann to 1'111 tlw Irish ll'11d to l(,­14 at tlw half. 
"DdPnsiwly. I think we hung in there and playml hard," Davi11 said. "That's an nxcellcnt olfonsiv,) f'ootlmll tnam, and I havn gr1•al respect for tlwir quarter­back." 
Purduf' and Nnlrn Dame swapped tourhdowns in Urn third quarter. 
Purdtw's .lay Crahtrnc scnred on a I ­yard nm and Bnws lnapod into the end zone on llw two-point play. With tlw BDilcrmakcr:-; aht•,L!I 22-16, Jackson fouud Bobby Brown in the corner of the end zonfL 

Purdue took the lead for good in the fourth quartPr with 28-and 38-yanl lield goals from Travis Dursr.h. 
Purdue's Chris Daniels (13 catches for 
12] yardsl and Lane (5 catches for 121i wnre the game's leading receivers. 
Fisher was the game's leading rusher, as he picked up 63 yards on 14 carries. 
The quarterback battle broke down pretty evenly. I·leisman-hopeful 13rees finished 24-for-40 for 317 yards. while Jackson was 22-for-34 for 267 yards. 
Each threw and rushed for a touch­down, but both were intercepted. 
Brees. however, was the only quarter­back to lead his team to victory. 
"We have to digest what happmwd and movo forward," Davie said. "Tho positive is that we have a lot or heart and a lot of' resilience on this learn, and we'll bounce back against Michigan Statn next wnek­end." 

quote of the game
player of the game 
stat of the game 
128 yards rushing
Jarious Jackson 
"We have a real good team. 
Notre Dame gained 202 yards
The Irish quarterback had 
Coming up short two weeks in a 
on the ground in last year's 31­
another stellar performance 
row isfrustrating. " 
30 victory. This year, the Irish 
completing 22 passes 
Tony Driver 
ground game stalled and they
for 267 yards. 
took home a loss.
Irish tailback 
page 2 
report card 
8-
quarterbacks: Jackson continued to 
struggle with his pitches but he did· 
throw thP-ball well. His rushing. 
however, was held in check as he 
gained only one yard. 
B 
running backs: Fisher and Driver each 
averaged more than 4 yards-per­
carry, but Driver dropped a critical 
pass and FisherJumbled once. 
B+ 
receivers: Nelson has another solid performance; while Brown recov.­eredfrom his mistakes in Michigan to catch four balls and a touchdown. 
ollensive line: Jackson was sackedC twice but he usually had enough lime to see his receivers. Penalties were committed at bad times. 
defensive line: The pass rush was spo­C radic and they Jailed to sack Brees. The line did a good job getting their hands up and tipping passes. 
linebackers: Denman. Boiman andC 1/arrison continued the 1 999 Irish linebacker tradition ofhaving quiet game.<? hut not hurting the team. 
B 
defensive backs: You can't stop Brees. you can only hope to contain him. Brees passedJor 3 I 7 yards but he 
never had a big play. 
B+ 
special teams: Julius Jo~es'Jourth quarter punt return gave the lri.c;h good.field position. Driver and 
Antwan Jones blocked a punt and a .field goal, respectively. 
coaching: Confusion reigned with sub­F stitution and play-calling problems. destroying Irish chances for a victory. 
2.37 
overall: The Irish were talent­ed enough to win. They just weren't organized enough to win. 
adding up the nun1bers 
kicks blocked by the Irish this year 
3 
-3 
1999 Notre Dame turnover margin 
fourth-quarter Irish points 
0 
1 
Jarious Jackson's rushing yards 
on 13 carries 
the last year the Irish losl their second­
1981
straight in Ross-Ade 
8 
points scored by Bobby Brown 
in 1999 -two more than his 
total last year 
number of Irish players on 
the field when time ran out 
13 
16 
seconds it look the Irish to run lhe final play of the game that 
lost nine yards 
Monday, September 13, 1999
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
IRISH INSIGHT . 

"Communication was a problem," Bob Davie said after the game. 
Before the telephone, communi­cation was a problem. On the Irish sidelines, communication was a disaster. 
Davie spoke 
about crowd noise and bro­ken headsets as factors in Notre Dame's inabilily to communicate. But when it comes right down to it, the 

coaches are ulti­
Mike Connolly 
mately responsi­ble for play call­ing, substitu­
Associate
tions and gener­
Sports Editor 
al team cohe­sion on the field. 
To improve these areas in the future, the fol­lowing refresher course is offered. 
Football 101 midterm exam: 
1. On second-and-20 from your opponents 40-yard line and with 25 seconds left in the first half, your fifth-year senior captain and star quarterback completes a pass to his talented receiver for a 17 -yard gain. Facing third-and-three on the 23-yard line with no timeouts, what is the correct call'? 
A. Spike the ball to stop the clock, and then bring the field goal team onto the field on fourth down to try a field goal. 
B. Run the field-goal team out onto the field and try to set up for a field goal in 18 seconds. 
C. A and B at the same time. 
2. On third-and-goal from the 1­yard line with 16 seconds on the clock and trailing by five with no timeouts, your team lines up in the goal-line offense. What is the cor­rect call? 
A. Give the ball to one of your two tailbacks, each of whom is averag­ing more _than 4 yards-per-carry on the day. 
B. Run a quarterback keeper to the left side using your three backs as lead blockers. 
C. A and B at the same time. 
Answers: 
1. If you chose A, you are correct. Stopping the clock by spiking the ball would give your team plenty of time to get set up for a field goal. 
If you chose B, you would also be correct. Your team has plenty of time to set up for a field goal if they hurry. 
If you chose C, you have a future in the Notre Dame coaching staff. 
At the end of the first half, Jarious Jackson put together a nine-play drive in 1 :47 that put the Irish in position for a field goal that would have given them a five-point lead heading into halftime. 
But that field goal never came. 
Jackson chose option A while the rest of the team chose option B. The confusion wasn't Jackson's fault, and it wasn't the field goal team's fault. It was the coaches' fault. 
Instead of kicking a field goal at the end of the half, the Irish were left standing on the field wondering what was going on as the final sec­onds of the first half ti.eked away. 
2. If you chose A, you are correct. If your offensive line can't open a hole wide enough for a back to run through for one yard, then you don't deserve to win the game. 
If you chose B, you also would be correct. With three lead blockers and an elusive quarterback running the ball, an outside run probably would yield a touchdown. 
If you chose option C, Bob Davie might be interested in seeing your ­resume. 
With the ball on the 1-yard line and 16 seconds on the clock, Jackson and the Irish offense lined up in their goal line formation. Davie had called for an isolation run by Tony Fisher. 
Realizing Purdue might pinch up their linebackers close to the line expecting a run up the middle, Davie also gave Jackson the option of calling an audible and running the ball lo the outside. 
When Jackson stepped to tho line and surveyed the defense, he called a fake audible. Fullback Joey Goodspeed, however, didn't hear the "fake" part of the audible and relayed an audible call to tailbacks Tony Fisher and Tony Driver. 
Thus, when the ball was snapped, Jackson ran the isolation because he hadn't audibled while the backs ran to block for the outside run because they had heard an audible. 
Not surprisingly, the play was a complete disaster, and Purdue sacked Jackson for an 8-yard loss. The game was over. 
Bonus Question: 
What is the purpose of a fake audible? 
Answer: 
There is not a good reason to call a fake audible. 
The defense doesn't know the audibles anyway. Whether the audible is real or just a ploy to con­fuse the defense, the defense can't tell. Only the offense understands audibles. 
So when a fake audible is called, it only fakes the offense while the defense is unaffected. 
Therefore, one wonders why coaches would have a fake audible in the playbook. 
Davie has blamed the last two losses on himself and poor coach­ing. Davie has no problem commu­nicating the obvious. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe aut.hor and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Monday, St:ptemher 13, 1999 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Secondary stands tall in strong 'Brees' 
By TIM CASEY 
Sp<>n, W1i1rr 
As fto11 lsrad lay in tlw mirl­dlt> of lht• fiPld away l'rorn tho arlion, an aln!1Hly Lhin s1H> undary was tkplt'll'd in a hlink of 1111• 1•yl'. 
"A guy 1·11t-blo1:kPd me." a dislrnuglit lsrad said l"nllowing Sat urday·s 28-2J loss to l'urdut>. "I ft>lt il Iright anklfl! roll; it popped 011 nm." 
l'lw Irish n,uh.l hardlv afford tu li>St' thP junior safnty. In lsnwl's spot, lwad 1:oach Bob ll1tvif' ins,~rlnd a rotation of .Justin Smith and Donald llyk1•s. 
1'111• l'l'Sf'rv1•s romhirwd µlaying Iinll' on Illf' sPas011 prPvious to lsr;wl's illjury was just :{:i rnin­11l11s. 
"Wf' lost a big part of our dinw pal'kag,• wlwn Hon Israel WPlll down." dnl'nnsivn coordi­nator (;rr,g !\lattiso11 said. "WP liad to sn-arnhl1• and put somn rPplarPlll!'lll'i in. Ohviously vou'd liki· lion in tl11~rn hut ihat's part ol' football. Thos11 kids ISmitll :rnd DykPs! lumg in tlwr,1•." 
".l11-;li11 Smith l'all\P in and strugglPd a bit," DaviP said. "Th,•n WP movPd A'.lani Sa11dPr-; bal' k lo sa.ldy in tlw dinw ancl moVl'd Donald DykPs up. IIP got pickPd on a little bit. But tl11•y compt•WcL" 
Fal'i11g orw of tlw top quartm·­barks in L111• 11atio11, tlw spot­1ight sho1w 1111 tlw dd,•nsivn harklit>ld. 
llll' sp1•011dary did not shut down tlw explnsivn Boi!Prmakn offrnsP, hut its play was 1101 thP rPason lhn Irish losl for th1• sPrnnd straight W!'Pk. 
DrPW lfrPPS lhrnw for ] 17 
vanb and a tourhdown. lie ran knows whnre to go right away," pumµed once -catching the for a loss of three, Brees again quent series ended Irish hopes,hir anothPr and rnrnpll'tl'd Ul Mattison conlinued. "You don't secondary off-guard -then picked apart the backfield. His the defense had no such trou­p1•n:P11l ol' his rmssPs. llis two­!mat him by blitzing. You beat fired a 30-yard touchdown pass completion to Lane set up bles. point ronvPrsion with six min­him by breaking on thc ball and to Handall Lane. Crabtree's 1-yard touchdown "We were getting our checks ult>s. 20 sPrnrHls ll'l'l in tl111 first making plays from the sec­"That was a zone dcfonse," run and gave the Boilermakers prntty clear out there," Sanders hall' was highlight matcirial. ondary." said Lee Lafayette, who covered their first lead of the afternoon. said. "The crowd quieted down 
But that's PXptwtncl from llrn At times, the secondary Lane on the touchdown strike. After Joey Hildbold's fourth­for their offense so Brees could rPigning Big T1~11 Offonsivn responded in fine fashion. "I actually had the flats; the quarter punt pinned Purdue on make his checks, so we were Plav,,r of' tlw Year. Of the seven Irish players safeties didn't come over. its own 9, the Irish defense pretty much set." 
"i(p's a grPat quartnrback," who recorded more than three [Brees] read that and threw the gave their teammates a chance. A noticeably distraughtMallison said. "lip's got thn tacklns. five wern f'rorn the sec­pass." Smith's dropped interception Mattison lamented his defonsc ability to scramble and to ondary. Sanders picked off a In the third quarter, Brees attempt on third down soured following the game. throw, and lw's a grnal lnad11r. Brees' pass in the first quarter, dropped back three steps and the effort. But with 2:00 "To me, I've always been one I don't think tlwn•s much else selling up the first Irish touch­found a streaking Chris Daniels remaining, the Irish had the of those guys that believes if you can ask from your quarter­down. to his left. Daniels fumbled with ball on their 40 and a shot at you don't win, you didn't play back. Othm times, they struggled. the ball for a second, then dart­victory. good defense," Mattison said. 
"Tiu~ IH•auty thal [Breesl has On second-and-four with 2:12 ed 40 yards for the first down. While the offense's communi­"That'll always be the case. But wlwn h,~·s in llw shotgun is that left in the first half", Brees After J. Crabtree was stopped cation problems on the subse-our kids battled out there." it!' SPPS tlw blitws corning and 
... 

AP Poll  scoring summary & stats  ESPN/USA Today poll  
1 2 3 4 4 6 7 B 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25  team Florida SI. Tennessee Penn SI. Florida Nebraska Michigan TexasA&M Miami, Fla. Wlliconsln Virginia Tech Geor111a Georgia Tech Ohio St. Purdue Arkansas Kansas St. Southern Cal Alabama Arizona NC Slate UCLA Arizona St. Colorallo St. NOTRE DAME BYU  record 2-0 1-0 3-0 2-0 2-0 2-0 1-0 2·0 2-0 2-0 2-0 1-1 1-0 2-0 1-0 1-0 1·0 2-0 2·1 3·0 1-1 1-0 2-0 1-2 1-0  points 1,725 1,650 1,619 1.446 1,446 1,403 1,342 1,267 1,184 1,046 996 981 901 764 677 654 602 550 452 349 303 234 207 171 156  scoring 1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total Notre Dame 10 6 7 0 23 Purdue 7 7 B 6 28 team statistics ND PU fi.rsl downs 20 19 rushes-yard.,; 42-128 27-114 passing-yards 267 317 comp-alt-int 22-34-1 24-40-1 return yards 94 76 punts-average 5-46 4-35 f umhlcs-lost 3-1 2-1 penalties-yards 7-51 8-43 time ofpossession 33:10 26:50 individual statistics passing ND -Jackson 22-34·1 PU -Brees 24-40-1 n,1,shiny NO-Fisher 14-63, Driver 10-51. Goodspeed 4-11, Lopienskl 1-2, Jackson 13-1, PU -Brees 6-39, Crabtree 12-36, Lowe 6-24, Sutherland 2-19, Daniels 1-(-4)  scoring summary 1st ND-10:13 FG Sanson Z0yd., 3-0 ND -7:36 Jackson 15-yd. run Sanson kick, 10-0 PU -2:29 Brees 9-yd. run Dorsch kick, 10•7 2nd ND -8:25 Jackson 1-yd. run kick failed, 16-7 PU -2:12 Lane 30-yd. pass from Brees, Dorsch kick, 16-14 3rd I'll ­6:20 Crablroe 1-yd. run Brnos run, 22-16 N/J -1:55 Brown 7-yd. pass from Jackson Sanson kick, Z3-ZZ 4th /'!1-7:53  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25  team Florida St. Tennessee Penn St. Florida Michigan Nebraska TexasA&M Wisconsin Miami, Fla. Virginia Tech Georgia Ohio SI. Georgia Tech Purdue Arkansas Kansas SI. Arizona Alabama USC NC State UCLA Texas Arizona St. Colorado St. Marshall  record 2-0 1-0 3-0 2-0 2-0 2-0 1-0 2-0 2-0 2-0 2-0 1-1 M 2-0 1-0 1-0 2·1 2·0 1·0 3-0 1-1 2-1 1·0 2-0 2.0  points 1,455 · 1,392 1,369 1,259 1,225 1,201 1,102 1,058 997 890 874 761 702 690 553 538 511 395 385 294 264 250 234 137 121  ..  
other tenms receiiriny votes: Marshall 153, Texas 144, Mlchl11an St. 63, Louisville 57, Svracuse 57, Mtulsslppt St. 33, Air Force 20, Oklahoma St.17, Virginia 16, LSU 14, Southern Miss. 12, Kansas 8  recei11ing ND -Nelson 5-68, Goodspeed 5-25, Brown 4-49, Hunter 3-47, O'Leary 2-30, Holloway 1-27, Givens 1-13, Fisher 1-8 PU ­Daniels 13-123, Lane 5-121, Jackson 2-15, Straiton 1-20, Sutherland 1-16, Simpson 1-16, Crabtree 1-6  FG Dorsch 38 Vd,, 25-23 ['fl -4:18 FG Dorsch 2a vrt., 2a-23  other teams receiving 11otes: Syracu111103, BVU 84, Mississippi SI. 63, Louisville 51, Michigan St 43, Southern Miss. 43, NOTRE DAME 31, Virginia 12, East Carolina 9, Air Force 7, Clemson 5, OK St. 5  

O
I THE
l Notre Dame at Purdue BSERVER Monday, September 13, 1999 

.. 
For the second-straight week, Notre Dame saw its comeback hopes averted as time expired. The Irish drove the ball to the 1-yard line with 16 seconds left, but miscommunication in the backfield led to a 9-yard loss and a Boilermakers victory. It was only Notre Dame's second loss in the past 14 meetings between the two teams. Purdue, however, has won two of the last three games, including two straight at home . 
... 
• 



H H 
Monday, September 13, 1999 page 13 
-----=-=-=======:::-.::-==::_=::_=::_=-:==-==============================================================~~;:; 

MARY CALASH/The Observer Senior Corey Weidner, junior Vanessa Salinas and junior Trisha Bollard enjoy a smoke out­side South Dining Hall. 
tlwy light up. Secondhand smoke contains oxid1's of nitrogen, nicotine, carbon monoxido and a nurubN of cardnog1ms. 
l•'.nvironmnntal tobacco smoke pollutes the air and has invitnd public concern as an environ­mPntal and a lwalth hazard. It has been the ca11s1\ of lung ('.llllenr and rnspiratory disease in rhil!ln•n (a population that should not have to Ill' suhjPrl<\d to such inflir.tion). In the 1980s, lwalth rr•sParc·hers Joseph DiFranza and Hobnrt l.Pw siHJw1•d approximatdy 70 pnrccnt of chil­drPn in Urn U.S. Wl\rl' I\Xposocl tn secllndhand smokP in Llwir homes by at least one adult smoker. Sncondhand smoko is a serious risk l'artor l'or !wart dis1\aSP in adults, and causes lwtwf'l'll 2.!iOO and 8,400 lung cancnr deaths p1•r ymir in tlw U.S. It causes a total of !i0,000 dPalhs Jll'f yPar in tlll' U.S., and ai; a result of 1his Llw J1J<J2 Environm1mtal Prot11clion Agency acldl'd sucondhancl smoke/passive smoke (a wmbinml t1!rrn lhal includes exhalation of smokers and tlrn smoke that is rnleased directly from the burning end of llie cigarette) to its class A list of carcinogens. According to health expert Allen Brandt, this has subjected public smoking to a range of federal regulatory requirements. 
Thus, the effects of smoking are seen as far­reaching. Some people have parents who smoke. Some have best friends who smoke. Some had grandparents who smoked. Some are smokers themselves. 
Many people have made an effort to educate tlrn public about the effects of smoking, if not to dean up the air and makfi public places a little more pleasant, than to save a few lives. For those who smoke, it is very easy to let impor­tant information concerning consequences of smoking gn in one ear and out the other. But one must remember: The one who could be most affected by smoking may not actually be the smoker -it could be the smoker's hus­band. wife, children or best friend. Smoking affects everyone. 

AP ENTERTAINMENT BRIEFS 

Photo courtesy of Columb1a Pictures 
"The American President" star Annette Bening returned to the stage recently in the L.A. production of "Hedda Gabler." 
Return to theater baffles Bening 
NEWYOHK For theater-trained actress Annette Bening, performing is all about adapting. After years doing theater productions in San Francisco and New York, Bening suddenly found herself in front of a movie camera. 
"When I first started doing movies. it struck me as so bizarre that you would be acting for two minutes at a time -just walk through a door and scream, whatever those little moments were," Bening says in Sunday's Daily News. 
"Because I came from that other perspective where you'rn doing 45 minutes of acting. I didn't understand it. I thought I was going to bn too big and too loud." 
After posting film credits including "The Gritters," "Mars Attacks!" "Postcards from the Edge," "Bugsy" and "The Siege," Bening rcturnnd to theater work, doing eight performances each week of "Hedda Gabler" in a Los Angeles production. 
"Slowly over the last 10 years I've evolved into a film actress, so when I was rehearsing the play I realized I'd forgottrm what it was like," Bening said. "It struck me on day in rehearsal -I was about haU'way through the play and I just thought: 'I can't concentrate any­more. Why does this go on so long?' Just emotionally to stay concen­trated for that length of time was new to me." 
Vonnegut worries about future of art 
ST. PAUL, MINN. Kurt Vonnegut will visit; he will talk. Just don't ask ttim to read aloud. "I've never done a reading. It's the lowest art form imaginable," Vonnegut said. 
When he comes to St. Paul next weekend. Vonnegut will be acknowledging his new short-story collection, "Bagombo Snuff Box" -gathered with the help of a local professor -but he's got too much on his mind to merely recite old prose. 
"I'll talk about stuff that bothers me, like the way people are being cheated out ofthe experience of 'becoming.' It's the computer which becomes now. People think, 'Oh, boy. wait until I get this new pro­gram.' Bill Gates will give you a program to write a perfect Shakespearean sonnet. For God's sake, that's not becoming," Vonnegut said. · 
"People should practice an art in order to make their souls grow and not to make money or become famous. Paint a picture. Write." Vonnegut will share his thoughts Saturday at Central Presbyterian Church in St. Paul. 
'Frasier' dog acts as true professional 
NEWYOHK Moose, the dog who plays EddiH on "Frasier" couldn't get into act­ing until he learned some professionalism. 
"I adopted Moose in '93 when he wa'> 3 years old," owner-trainer Mathilde de Cagny says in Sunday's New York Post. "And he'd alrnady had a couple of owners before me who gavn him away, hm:ause Im was misbehaving; chewing, burking, digging, running away." 
But Cagny saw potential in the Jack Hussnll tr,rrier now belovnd by 1V fans for constantly upstaging the npurotic Frasier. 
The veteran trainer knows canine acting talent when she sees it.. Cagny also owns Jill, tlrn scene-stealing Brussels Griffon in "As Good As It GeL<;," and Clovis, tho golden retriever who playecl Shadow in the film. "Homeward Bound." 
And for Moose, there's only one real director. 
"We're like an old married couple," Cagny said. 'Tm 10 feet away f'rom him at all times, and there's a lot of silent communication between us, with hand signals and eye contact that only Ll)e live (stu­dio) audience can see." 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, September 13, 1999 
NFL 
Ismail's touchdown catch highlights Cowboys' victory 
As•ociated Press 
LANDOVER. Md. 
In the history of the Cowboys­Redskins rivalry, give this game four stars -and color them blue and silver. 
Dallas matched its biggesi comeback ever Sunday, rallying from a 21-point deficit in tho fourth quarter to beat Washington 41-35 on former Notre Dame player Raghib "Rocket" lsmail's 76-yard touch­down catch in overtime. 
"Nobody tliought it was going to be easy, but nobody thought it was going to be like this." Cowboys tight end David LaFleur, who caught two touch­down passes, said as he smiled and shook his head in amaze­ment. 
Ismail. signed as a free agent to add speed to the receiving corps, split the safeties and was wide open for Troy Aikman's fifth touchdown pass 4:09 into the extra period. 
"l think this is probably the wildest game I've ever be,m a part of," said Aikman, who was 28-for-49 for 362 yards and three interceptions. 
Dallas has rallied from 21 points down to win once before, 30-27 in overtime against New Orleans in 1984. 
It was also the third time the Cowboys have made up a big deficit to beat the Redskins, coming back from 20 points down in 1983 and 17 points in 1979. 
"[t gives you more to build on than if you win 28-14," Dallas coach Chan Gailey said. "(Ismail) caught it, and then I think I breathed." 
The Cowboys trailed 35-14 going into the fourth quarter, but sent the game into overtime on Michael Irvin's 12-yar<l reception with 1:46 left. The crucial extra point by Richie Cunningham hit the left upright before going through. 
Washington had a chance to win the game on the last play of regulation, but holder Matt Turk fumbled the snap on what would have been a 41-yard field-goal attempt by Brett Conwav. 
The ·1oss hit the Redskins hard. They collapsed in last year's season-opener against the New York Giants and then lost their next six in a row. They had hoped to put that behind them while impressing now owner Dan Snyder. 
"Having things fall apart. especially in a big game like this, it was a hard loss," defen­sive tackle Dan Wilkinson said. "We're by no means going to throw in the towel, but this hurts right down to your heart." 
Snyder bought the Redskins this year for $800 million and has demanded that coach Norv Turner make the playoffs or else. He was clapping and cheering -along with a record crowd of 79,237 -after the home team recovered from a 14-3 first-half deficit. 
By the end of the game, Snyder's expression was more serious. 
"I don't think the owner was putting $800 million on this game," cornerback Darrell Green said. "I haven't prepared the entire offseason just for this one game. I'm in it for the long haul." 
With Deion Sanders, Kevin Smith, Leon Lett and Quentin Coryatt missing from the Dallas defense, Washington had no problems moving the ball for three quarters. 
The Redskins were in Cowboys territory on nine of their first 10 offensive posses­sions, failing to score only when they stopped themselves. Stephen Davis and Brad Johnson both lost fumbles inside the Dallas 15 in the first half. 
Picking on reserve corner­backs Kevin Mathis and Charlie Williams, Johnson marked his Redskins debut by completing 22 of 30 passes for 382 yards with touchdown throws of 41 yards to Michael Westbrook and 50 yards to Albert Connell. Davis had his firsi 100-yard game, rushing for 109 yards on 24 carries and two touchdowns. 
On their first two possessions, the Cowboys marched 80 and 82 yards for 14 points against a first-string defense that didn't allow a touchdown in presea­son. 
Aikman was as precise as ever, completing 6-of-9 with two drops, including scoring passes of 15 and 14 yards to LaFleur. 
But Aikman spent the next two quarters hurried by the Redskins' ·pass rush. The Cowboys were down 35-14 before they finally scored again on Emmitt Smith's 1-yard run with 10:43 to go in the game. 
Dallas then recovered an onside kick, but had to punt. On their next possession, however, the Cowboys drove 66 yards to score on a 3 7 -yard touchdown pass to Irvin with 3:51 left, clos­ing to 35-28. 
Irvin's two touchdown catches were one more than he had all last season. Three receivers had career highs in yards receiving: Westbrook (159), Connell (137) and Ismail (149). 
Smith finished with 109 yards 
on 23 carries as the Cowboys out-gained the Redskins 541­504. 

Sanders, who had major toe surgery in April, did some run­ning on the field before the game but was not able to play. The Cowboys defense was also missing Smith (back), linebacker Coryatt (Achilles' tendon) and suspended defensive tackle Lett. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. ar rhe Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right to edir all classifieds for content wirhout issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
SKYDIVE!! Try the ULTIMATE RUSH Training students for over 30 years 1 hour North of South Bend Call for class times GREAT LAKES SKYDIVERS 1-800-351-6617 
HOUSE OF FRANCIS RELIGIOUS GOODS The largest selection of Icon's in the Midwest.Come and visit our out­standing selection! Call Fred @ 219-233-2523. located across from Memorial Hospital, house behind Kagel's Flower Shop, 111 E. Navarre St. 
LOST & FOUND 
FOUND: large male Golden Labrador with red collar on campus on 9/8199. 
Call 289-9967. 
WANTED 
STUDENT OPENINGS 5-30 hrs./week. Flex. around classes. 
Scholarships avail. www.workforstudents.com/lN 282-2357 
Coach's Sports Bar & GriN is looking lor line cooks, will pay for experance. Please call2n-7678, or stop by 2046 South Bend Ave. 
WANTED: Student bus help. Apply al UNIVERSITY CLUB 9am-5pm. FOOTBALL WEEKENDS MANDA­TORY. Competitive wages, meals provid­ed. 
DON'T WORK THIS SCHOOL YEAR! $1200 TO $2000 THIS MONTH. Part time 4 to 6 hours per week. Call 24 hrs (219) 239-6709 
FRATERNITIES,SORORITIES & STUDENT GROUPS Earn $1000-2000 with easy CIS Fund event.No sales required.Fund Rasier days are filling up, so call today.Contact Joe @ 1-888-522· 4350. 
FOR RENT 
ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE 
HOME FOR 
ND-SMC EVENTS. 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 243-0658. 
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $80· $115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road Exit #107, 1· 800-418·9487. 
3-6 BDRM HOMES NEAR CAM· PUS. NOW OR 2000/2001.ROOMS ALSO 272-6306 
LOADED 6 Bedrm '00-01 yr. 273-0482 / 234-3831 
3 bdrm duplex, remodeled. 503 Eddy, one mile from campus. Appliances, W/D. 273-8332. 
House for rent. Five bedrooms, two bathrooms, beautiful condi• tion,$1500/mo. Call Bill at 675-0776. 
FOR SALE 
Spring Break Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise 5 Days $2791 Includes Meals! Awesome Beaches,Nightlife!Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights From $399! Florida $129!springbreaktravel .com 1-800-678-6386 
NEW Prepaid Phone Cards!!! $20 ·>669 minutes Gall 243-9361, ask for Rob 
FOR SALE 
N.O. FOOTBALL TIX CALL 271-9412 
FOR SALE 
N.D. FOOTBALL TIX CALL 271-9412 
FREE TRIAL OF A BRAND NEW TECHNOLOGY 30 MIN LONG DIS­TANCE CALLS FREE SEND SASE TO G MARKS PO BOX 920528 NEEDHAM.MA. 02492 
TICKETS 
I need 2-4 ND vs. ASU lixfll Please calf Autumn al 284-5024!!1 
WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT­BALL TICKETS 271-1526 
SELL & BUY GA FOOTBALL TICK­ETS 277-6619 WANTED­NO football tix. AM · 232-2378 PM • 288-2726 
ND football tix for sale. AM -232-2378 PM · 288-2726 
I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME GAMES.2726551 
BUYING and SELLING N D FOOT• BALL TICKETS. GREAT PRICES. CALL 289-8048 
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++ ++ 
N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS BUY/SELUTRADE ALL GAMES ALL LOCATIONS GREAT PRICES 271-9330 JlNO STUDENT TICKETS!! 
TICKETMART INC. www.ndlickets.com 
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++ 
BUYING GA FOOTBALL TICKETS All HOME GAMES ........... . 277-1659 
FOR SALE 
N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS CALL 271-9412 
SPRING BREAK 2000 ''THE MILLENIUM" A NEW DECADE ...NCE IN TRAV­EL.FREE TRIPS,FREE MEALS!JAMAICA,CANCUN,FLORI DA,BARBADOS,BAHAMAS.SIGN UP BY NOV. 5 FOR 2 FREE TRIPS AND FREE MEALS! 1800-426-7710 WWW.SUNSPLASHTOURS.COM 
Family seeks 2,3, or 4 tickets to ND-Navy game Oct. 30, reasonable priced. 412-741-8727 
Need !ix for Oklahoma, Ariwna State. Call Michelle, 233-9037or 631· 4542. 
Needed: 3 tix for BC. Call Mike 4-3584. 
NEED -NAVY G.A. TICKETS 
C. ZIMMERMAN 573-796-2943 
NEED 5 MICH. ST. TIX Call 631-7745 
Wanted: 2 use tix. Have 2 MSU !ix and 2 Oklahoma tix to trade. Call Tim at 4-4853. 
NEED 2 CHICAGO BEARS TIX; October 3rd vs. New Orleans Saints. Email me at DAVE.CARON@BMO.COM 
PERSONAL 
lnteresested in jazz or classical piano lessons? Only $10/week call Joel al 288­4517. 
Wow! A whole column and a half, just for me? 
Booya! 
Wesside ... 
This one goes out to all my homeys if! Siegfried 4B. 
Let's here one for Mark D., the best production man in the business. 
Sweet sassy molassy ... 
Gee...l sure wish Brendan could've given me some quotes to type in here. Oh, well...his loss. 
Once more into the breech ... 
Ok, look like it's time for an audible. 
Or maybe a fake audible. 
Or maybe a fake, fake audible. 
If you're curious in reading more about the wonderful world of classi­fieds, we suggest buying some newspaper at the Huddle Mart and reading through them for a change. 
Have you got the photos yet? 
!T's BYOB night at the JAGG... Bring Your Own BOOYA!!! 
Shoutout to Cavanaugh Football Coach McCoyd Coach T Coach Quinn Coach Jav ..Hav?...Haav? CoachTimbo Coach Crazy --enough staffing? "Our goal is to maximize scoring oppurtunities." 
Here's a shout oul to alt the MEs. 
A smile only a mother would love, Bob? I think you're giving me too much credit. 
So, let me get this straight ...you missed your plane because... 
Who swept the Yankees, John? 
Yeah, that's right. I don't think there's anything left to say. 
That's the sports and l. .. am...out of here. 
Monday, Sepremher 13, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page l 5 
NFL 
Testaverde suffers tendon injury as Patriots down Jets 
season's success. New England on its own 1 with 
Associated PreS< 
There's no danger of that a punt. Because Mirer had happening now. been designated as the emer­
EAST HUTIIEHFOHD. N.J. 
Teslaverde fell to the turf gency quarterback, he couldn't
Now Yurk Jets coach Bill 
untouched after making a play until the start of tho fourth
l'arcells wanted Lhe d,1l'e11ding 
quick cut to the ball when quarter or the .lets would have 
AFC Enst champions to start 
Curlis Martin fumbled in the lost Tupa for the game.
from scratch this season. Now second quarter. Tho 35-year­Terry Glenn caught seven
hn's got his wish. 
old quarterback immediately passes for 113 yards and wasQuarterback Vinny grabbed his loft leg and one of nine Patriots with aTeslaverde ruptured his 
writhed in pain. reception. Johnson caught
Achilles· t1mdon eight minutes Ile limped off the field, using eight passes for 194 yards, andinto the New England Patriots' one leg and two teammates for Curtis Martin ran 19 times for
:W-28 cmn11back victory over 
support before he stopped and 85 yards for the Jets.
thn J11ts on Sunday. lie will 
had lo be carried ofT. The Jetsmiss the rnst of' tlrn season. 
announced he would have
And, just liku that, the .lets no Titans 36, Bengals 35 
surgery Sunday night and will
longt>r look like Super Bowl a Playing in a new stadium
miss the rest of the season ­
conlcndlirs and will have lo with a new nickname, the
sudd,rn, stunning blow Lo a
tlrastically rnshapc ttrnir Tennessee Titans treated their 
team considered poised for a
olfornm uf'tl'r only onn gamn. fickle fans to a last-minute vic­
championship run.
"What'? I'm going lo put up tory in their season opener.
"I fool terrible for Vinny," 
. Lhti white nag'! No, I'm not Al Oel Greco kicked a 33-yard
Bledsoe said. "Vinny's a guy
going to do that," said l'arcPlls, field goal with 8 seconds left as
that's bcrnn through a ton of
who also lost running back the Titans rallied with 10
hard times and been on some
l.<•on Johnson for tlrn year with points in the final minutes for a
terrible football teams. Finally,
torn ligamPnts in his lcfl knoe. victory over the Cincinnati
last year, ho gets a chance to
"You know what'? Nobody Bengals on Sunday in the first
play on a good team and docs
earl's.... We just hav,1 to try game at Urn $292 million
uxtrnmely well. 
und adjust and go forward." Adelphia Coliseum. 
"This year it looks like he's
Chris Slad1i i11l1~rc11pl!1d a The Titans, formerly the
going to ho very strong again
pass from .IPtS backup Hick Oilers, took th(lir fans through and two touchdowns before dominated the expansion
and all of a sudden he's out for
Mirer Lo sr.t up Adam a gamut of emotions from boos being forced from the game Browns from the opllning kick­
the season. Jt's really disheart­
Vinati<iri's 2:~-yard, garmi-win­to a standing ovation as they with heat exhaustion and off until the final gun with a
ening on a personal lev!ll to see
ning !fold goal with three sec­blew a 26-7 first-half lead with cramps. 43-0 rout.
that happen."
onds llif't. Drnw Bledsoe com­four turnovers before playing That forced rookie Akili Hichard Huntley scored three
Although punter/quarterback
pleted 21-of-30 passes for 340 catchup with 10 points in the Smith, who held out for most of touchdowns, .Jerome Bettis
Tom Tupa filled in admirably
yards, inclutling a 58-yard fourth quarter. Steve McNair, training camp, into the game. rushed for 80 yards in one half
-throwing a 25-yard touch­
touchdown pass to Tony booed after fumbling away the He finished off two drives start­and the Ste!llers outgained the
down to Keyshawn Johnson to
Sim111011s. ball with 9:26 left, came back ed by Blake with simple hand­Browns 460-40 in total yards
make it to 14-10 on his first
The Patriots got tlwir first to lead the rally. offs as Cincinnati settled for despite playing most of the sec­
play -the game was largely
wi11 in four attempts against "That gave me even more field goals of 33 and 38 yards ond half with its reserves.
an afterthought.
tlwir fornmr coach, who left on motivation to go out and get by Doug Pelfrey for a 35-26 Mike Tomczak, the Steelers'
"When we lost Vinny, it took
had tnrms af'tllr loading them to the job done," said McNair, lead with 7:56 remaining. second-string quarterback, ......
a lot of air out of us. We just
the J<J<J7 St1ptff Bowl. Two sea­who finished 21-of-32 for 341 McNair, who twisted his went 8-for-8 with two touch­
couldn't kill them. We couldn't 
sons later, l'arcnlls had the Jets yards with three touchdowns ankle the drive before, led the down passes.
put them away," Johnson said
in and AFC title game; even and an interception. "I don't Titans back on the field to a The Steelers did more than
in a post-game news confer­
morn was 1ixpectnd of them this understand it ... but the team chorus of boos, and he just beat the Browns. They
ence that ended when he
y1mr. surrounded me and said 'Don't responded with a scramble for humiliated them.
pounded the rostrum with both
But Parcells said in training worry.' And we came out on nine yards. He capped the drive Pittsburgh had 32 first downs
fists and stomped out, his face 
camp that he wanted the Jets' top. That's what counts." by tossing a short pass to Eddie to Cleveland's 2, and thll
screwed up in frustration. 
motto to Im "Starling Over," Cincinnati's Jeff Blake nearly George who ran 17 yards for a Steelers had the ball for 4 7 :49 
Tupa completed 6-of-10 pass­
because Im feared his team ruined the Titans' homecoming touchdown, pulling Tennessee to the Browns 12:11.
es for 165 yards and two touch­
would be complacent after last singlehandedly. He ran for 90 to 35-33. This wasn't the way
downs in all. and also pinned 
yards and threw for 182 yards Cincinnati turned to emer­Cleveland hoped to usher in a gency quarterback Scott new era of pro football after Covington, but he failed to get a waiting more than 1,300 days
•-------•-•••-•---•-••-••--•-•--••••-w 
first down as the Titans between games. The Browns,
: Have you thought about : 
defens!l forced the Bengals to who had less than a year to get
I I 
punt after a three-and-out. ready for their opener, thought "He had 27 more practices a solid performance on nation­than Akili did," Cincinnati al TV against the Steelers on
: I becoming a : I 
coach Bruce Coslet said. opening Sunday would help
I I 
McNair took over with the them build momentum in their ball at the Cincinnati 49 after a inaugural season. 21-yard punt return by Yancey Instead, it showed Browns Thigpen, and he threw thrne coach Chris Palmer just how
!I Catechist?. !I 
passes and ran twice in setting far his team has to go. 
up Del Greco's game-winner, It was the worst shutout loss the 13th of his career. McNair in Cleveland history and the wound up 21-of'-32 for 341 worst season-opening loss. The
: I I l&i : I I 
yards with three touchdowns Browns gained just 9 rushing 
¦ (Z\MPUS I and one interception. yards on nine carries. The 43­Smith had a last chanc(l in point margin was the second­
I MINISTRY I 
I I ' the final eight seconds. He worst loss in Browns history, found Tony McGhe!l to get thll surpassed only by a 51-3 defeat 
: * Do you enjoy working with children or adolescents? : 
Bengals to midfield, and he to Minnesota in 1969. ¦ * Can you give two hours ofyour time each week? I threw the ball into the end Browns starting quarterback zon!l only to see it fall incom­Ty Detmer was unable to get
I * Would you welcome the challenge to articulate yourfaith? I 
plete. anything going on offense, and
: *Would you like to be a valuable asset to a local parish? : 
"We had so many chances to rookie quarterback Tim Couch, 
¦ * Would you be interested in becoming a certified catechist? I win," Coslet said. "My players ClevAland's No. 1 draf't pick, I I are just sick about it. It's got to made his pro debut with 10:38 I I turn for us." rnmaining. Detmer went 6-for-I I 13 for 52 yards and one inter­
I I ception.
Steelers 43, Browns 0
¦ If you can answer YES to any or all of these questions, 1 
But Couch was as bad as the
Leave it to the dawg gone: come find our more about becoming a Catechist. ; Pittsburgh Steelers to trash the rest of the Browns, throwing an 
interception on his first
Cleveland Browns' NFL home­
I I 
attempt. Once thA pickoff was
coming. 
made, thousands of Browns
1 I Pick-up applications at Badin Hall-Campus Ministry, I1 The team's emotional return 
headed f'or tlrn exits as an his­to the league following a nearly
I I 
toric night that began with
four-year absence began nice­
I I 
such promise ended dreadfully.
ly. There was a spectacular
; Call John or Sylvia Dillon at 631-5242 : pregame show, featuring native Bettis looked fresh and com­pletely recovered from knee
comedian Drew Carey, eye­
I I 
surgery in the first half' as he
I I popping fireworks and a jet fly­
bowled over Browns tacklers,over above the Browns' brand
I I 
and ran around others. He fin­
I I new stadium. 
ished with 89 yards on 16 car­
I I It was all Steelers after that. 
ries and spent most of the sec­Kordell Stewart rushed for
; (Mon.-Thurs. 4:30-5 :30 P.M. classes : ond half standing on the side­
one touchdown and threw for 
anothor as line in a baseball cap laughing
Pittsburgh,
; are in most need of teachers!!) : Cleveland's hated division rival, along with his teammates as the rout unfolded.
I I I I 
·------------------------------------· 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, September 13, 1999 
• 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Red Sox sweep Yankees to inch closer in AL East race 
Associated Press NEW YORK The Roston Red Sox surged back into the pennant race Sunday, beating nemesis Roger Clemens and completing first three-game sweep at Yankee Stadium since 1986 with a testy 4-1 win over New York. A sellout crowd of 56,028 watched a brushback battle between Clemens and Bret Saberhagen, two home-plate collisions and a heated exchange between Jose Offerman and the Yankees dugout. The fans, who pushed the Yankees' home attendance past 3 million for the first tim,i in franchise history, also saw a much more scary sight ­Boston pulling within 3 1/2 games of the AL East leaders. And with three weeks left in the season, there's suddenly th.is concern: While Boston held its three-game edge over Oakland -a 4-3 winner at Tampa Bay -for the wild card, the Athletics have crept within 6 1/2 games of the Yankees, meaning a playoff spot is no certainty for the World Series champs. Clemens (12-9) lost his third straight start for the first time since 1993 and fell to 3-1 life­time against his former team. Clemens held Boston to two hits for seven innings, but con­secutive singles by Trot Nixon, Offerman and Darren Lewis in the eighth broke a 1-all tie and keyed a three-run burst. 
Nomar Garciaparra had a sac­rifice fly and Troy O'Leary hit an RBI single. 
The Red Sox went on to win for the seventh time in nine games and the Yankees have lost five of six. Boston, which trailed New York by 8 1/2 games on Aug. 30, has not been so close to the Yankees since trailing by three games on July 16. 
Chuck Knoblauch gave the Yankees a great start with his seventh leadoff home run of the year. That was the only run they managed, however, against five Boston pitchers. 
Hheal Cormier {2-0) bailed Boston out of a first-and-sec­ond, no-out jam in the sixth to keep the score tied at 1. Rod Berk pitched the ninth for his third save since the Red Sox got him from the Cubs on Aug. 31. 
Clemens plunked Wilton Veras with a pitch in the top of the third and Saberhagen hit Scott Brosius ifiading off the bottom half. Plate umpire John Hirschbeck warned thD teams against further hostilities. 
Reggie Jefferson scored in the Boston fourth on O'Leary's single, wiping out catcher Joe Girardi. Jefferson also tried to bowl over Girardi in the eighth, but was tagged out. 
Athletics 4, Devil Rays 3 
Jason Giambi and Matt Stairs hit two-run homers as the Oakland Athletics beat the Tampa Bay Devil Rays to move 15 games over .500 for the first time in seven years. 
The Athletics (79-64). who remained three games behind Boston in the AL wild-card race, have won four straight and are in their best position since winning the AL West in 1992. 
Gil Heredia (12-7} allowed two runs and five hits in seven-plus innings. He struck out six and retired 12 straight at one point. 
Jason lsringhausen came in with the tying runs on with one out in the eighth. He got Terrell Lowery to ground out and struck out Jose Canseco to end the threat. 
lsringhausen allowed Herbert Perry's second solo homer of the game in the ninth before finishing for his fourth save. 
Tampa Bay rookie Dan Wheeler (0-2) struck out a team-record 12 batters in six innings of his third major league start. Wheeler. who struck out the side in the first two innings, gave up four runs, five hits ai1d three walks. 

Tampa Bay established a new team record by striking out 17 batters overall. Every Oakland starter but Giambi struck out at least once. 
Perry also homered in the seventh inning for the Devil Rays, who have dropped six straight and eight of nine to the Athletics. Perry has five homers this season and two career multihomer games. 
Giambi's 463-foot homer gave the Athletics a two-run lead in the first inning. Stairs' shot in the third made it 4-0. 
The homer by Giambi was the second longest in the two­year history of Tropicana Field. Tampa Bay's Fred McGriff hit a 468-foot shot on May 5. 
White Sox 4, Indians 3 
Magglio Ordonez hit a solo home run to lead the Chicago Whitt! Sox over the Cleveland Indians and snap a six-game losing streak. 
The AL Central Division champion Indians, who started a lineup minus regulars Manny Ramirez, Hoberto Alomar, Omar Vizquel, David Justice and Harold Baines, lost for just the fourth time in their last 13 games. 
Mike Sirotka (9-13} ended a three-game losing streak with the win, and won his first game in throe starts this sea­son against the Indians. Sirotka gave up three runs and eight hits in seven innings. 
Bob Howry pitched the ninth for his 22nd save in 28 chances. Vizquel hit a pinch­hit double to lead off the ninth before Howry retired pinch­hitters Alomar and Baines. Justice then walked as a pinch-hitter before Richie Sexson struck out. 
Jaret Wright (7-8). making his first start since he was sidelined Aug. 9 because of a strained muscle in his back, allowed four runs and 10 hits in five-plus innings. 
Thinking of Joining the Church?? Try RCIA 
at 
Sacred Heart Parish 
at 
Notre Dame 
We are: 
1) an inter-generational group 
[you always liked talking with Grandma] 
2) a Wednesday evening meeting 
[you prefer Chicago on weekends] 
3) t.he Parish which baptized Chief Pokagon 
[you like a truly long tradition!] 
4) a complement lo Campus Ministry's RCIA 
{you like building bridges) 
Call Chris Miller at 631-7508 

LONDONPROG APPLICATION MEETING 

FOR FALL 2000 AND SPRING 2001 
Tuesday, September 14, 1999 101 DeBartolo 6:30 pm 
ALL SOPHOMORES WELCOME! 
.. , 
I 
I 
I 
I
Monday, September 13, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
.. 
•
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Bonds reaches homer milestone as Padres top Braves 
Associated Press 
SAN FHANCISCO, Calif. Barry Bonds hit his 442nd 
_ home nm, tying Davr. Kingman for 22nd place on the r.arecr list, and th11 San Francisco (ii11nts b,rnt Grng Maddux for tlw first time in morn than three years, dHfeating tlw Atlanta BravHs 8-4 Sunday. Maddux (18-7), who had won his pnivious night starts overall sincn a July 21 loss at Florida, had hmm 5-0 against tho Giants sinrn Julv 25, ltl'H,. lie walkr.d five !'or 'the first time in 140 starts since Aug. 9, 1995. allow­ing six runs -f'.ive earned ­and 10 hits in five innings. Maddux had walked just tiv<l in his prPviow; eight starts com­binnd and hadn't walked any­01rn in :11 consncutive innings going into the second inning. llis EHA, which had dropped from 5.02 on May 21 to 3.36, rosn Lo 3.50. t<ich t\urilin homered and drove in two runs, and Joe Nathan (6-31 allowod four runs and six hil'l in 5 l/3 innings. 
Bret Boone and Chipper Jones hit consecutive home runs in the sixth inning for the Braves (91-53), who still have the best record in tho major leagues. It was Jones' 40th of the s1:1ason. 
Brian .Jordan's HBI single in the first inning put Atlanta ahead. The Giants tied it on Nathan's second-inning infield singln, his 11rst B.BI in 22 career at-bats. 
A throwing error by Andruw Jnn11s in center allowed the Giants to take a 2-1 lead in the fourth. Arniando Rios singled, took thirrl on Bill Mueller's sin­gl <l and scored wlrnn Jones' throw sailod into the photogra­pher's w,~11 next to the Braves' dugout. 
San Francisco scored !'our runs in the lifth on six consecu­tive singles. Doug Mirabelli's hit drove in two runs, and Mueller and Aurilia each drove in mm. 
Atlanta closed to 6-4 on the lfoone and Jones homers. Aurilia hit his 19th homer of the season against Kevin McGlinchy leading ot'f the seventh and Bonds hit his 31st homer off 
~DVTltflEANOIIAJIIGOH DOORKNOB ___ -,-___ •••• --
Derrin Ebert leading off the eighth. 
Reds 11, Marlins 5 
Greg Vaughn drove in a pair of runs, becoming the first Cincinnati player to reach 100 RBIs in 10 years, as the Reds beai ihe Florida Marlins for thAir sixth straight win. 
After setting various records by hitting 29 homers in their last nine games. the Heds didn't challenge tho walls -Scan Casey's fly to the warning track was thr. only close call -and still WOil going away. 
Aaron Boone drove in four runs with a bases-loaded dou­ble and a bases-loaded single, helping Cincinnati score seven runs in the fifth and sixth innings to pull away. 
Vaughn, acquired from San Diogo in an off~eason trade for Reggie Sanders, had a sacrifice t1y and a run-sr.oring single off 
A.J. Burnett (2-2) tha1. put the Reds ahead to stay 3-2 in the third inning. 
Florida's Preston Wilson hit his 25th homer off Hon Villane 
-• 
I I I 

Dear _____ the grouch, 
There's something you should know. In the morning, you are unbelievably grumpy. And that's putting it very, very nicely. 
So, because I like you, may I suggest you start the day with a CROISSAN'WIGH' from BURGER KING: It's filled with mouthwatering 
sausage, egg and cheese. And that should make anyone less cranky. Even you. Ifitdoesn't, then we're on to Plan B. And YoU don't want 
to know Plan B. 
Sincerely, ______ 

THE DELICIOUS CROISSAN'WICH: 
The Huddle -l..aFortune Student Center 

It just tastes better: 
www.burgerking.com LIMITED TIME ONLY. PRICE AND PARTICIPATION MAY VARY. PURING BREAKFAST HOURS ONLY. 
Ol!IIIIIJRGER KllliOORroRAOOH IIUIURl<Ni CORPOAAlUI IS TllE EXCll.lSM LWjSff Of TllE "ITJUST TASTES llfmR"llWlEfiAAI( ONITIE REGISTERrn IUIGER KN;, ao!SSMMCHMO IUI HAl.'15 lOGO l!W)EM,W(S 
(8-61, a solo shot gave him the fourth-highest total by a NL rookie in the last 25 years. Todd Helton also hit 25 last year. 
Two Rods starters left the game with minor injuries. Second baseman Pokcy Reese had spasms in his lower back and came out after the first inning, and Dmitri Young got a tight left hamstring while run­ning the 'bases in the fifth. 
Instead of reaching the out­field seats, the Beds wun with a minimalist approach: 10 singles among 13 hits, two sacrifice flies, six walks, two stolen bases and three Marlins errors. 
The Reds batted around in the fifth and sixth innings, with Marlins errors extending both rallies. 
Wilson's solo homer in the sixth added to his record for a Marlins rookie. Wilson has gone 10-for-22 in his last six games with four homers. 
Astros 7, Cubs 1 
Carl Everett went 4-for-4 and Chris Holt won for the first time in nearly a month as the Houston Astros stretched their winning streak to 10, tying the team record by beating the Chicago Cubs. 
Sammy Sosa went 2-for-4 but failed to homer for the third straight game and remained a1. 59 with 19 games remaining. Sosa, 3-for-14 in the series, hasn't homered in 15 consecu­tive at-bats but remained four homers ahead of Mark McGwire, 
Sosa failed to homer for the first time in 10 series since Aug. 6-8, also against the Astros. 
Houston, which maintained a three-game lead over second­pl ace Cincinnati in the NL Central, won 10 straight five uther times, most recently in 1989. 
Chicago has lost six straight and 10 of 11, dropping to 15-43 since the All-Star break, 
Steve Trachsel (6-17), coming off his first consecutive winning starts of the year, allowed four runs and eight hits in six innings. lie is trying to avoid becoming the first 20-game loser in the majors since Oakland's Brian Kingman in 1980. 
Everett, who put Houston ahead with an RBI singh~ in the first, matched his career best with his fifth four-hit game this season and the ninth of his career. 
Holt (4-13), winless in four starts since beating Pittsburgh since Aug. 14, allowed one run, four hits and fuur walks in six innings, striking out seven. Three relievers completed the six-hitter. 
After Sosa singled and Grac11 doubled in the sixth, I-loll struck uut Rodriguez and Shane Andrews, then retired Heed on a groundout. 
Craig Biggio's 14th homer gave the Astros a 2-0 lead in the third, and Tony Eusebio's HBI grounder made it :J-1 in the fourth. Daryle Ward hit a sacri­fice fly in the sixth. 
Houston added three runs in the eighth off Terry Adams on Ken Caminiti's HBI double, Eusebio's run-scoring single and Russ Johnson's HBI groundout. 
Expos 8, Padres 4 
Dustin Hermanson took a shutout into the ninth inning against his former team and Michael Barrett drove in four runs in the Montreal Expos' win over the San Diego Padres. 
Hermanson, the Padres' No. 1 pick in the 1994 amateur draft, allowed seven hits in the first eight innings before giving up singles to Chris Gomez and Ben Davis to open the ninth. David Newhan, who was hitless in 23 at-bats, followed with his first career homer, knocking Hermanson out. 
Hermanson (8-12) was rarely in trouble in the first eight innings as ho struck out six and walked thrne in winning his third straight game for the first time this season. The right-han­der improved to 6-1 with a 2.08 ERA in seven gamos against San Diego. 
The Padres loaded the bases with one out before Ugucth Urbina finished for his 36th save in 44 chances despite allowing Eric Owens' HBI sin­gle. 
Barrett. hit a three-run homer in the seventh off Sterling Hitchr.ock (] 1-121 after singles by Hermanson and Hondel! White to open the inning. Barrett's sixth homer put the Expos ahead 5-0. 
meeting Notre Dame Chapter Association for Computing Machinery Tuesday 
September 14 6p.m. 205 Cushing 
ACM -largest professional society for computer scientists, software engineers, programmers, computer engineers, web page designers, internet aficianados Over 90,000 members Career and Education Opportunities Bring a friend Free Pizza 
Monday, September 13, 1999 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS 
.. 
NFL 
Buccaneers turnovers prove costly in home opener 
Assodared PreS> 
TAMPA, Fla. 
The New York Giants proved once again that defense is their offense. 
Christian Peter scored on a 38-vard fumble return and rookie Andre Weathers ran back one of New York's four interceptions for a touchdown as the Giants beat the Tampa Bav Buccaneers 17-1'.i in the se;son-opener Sunday. 
New York won its fifth straight game with Kent Graham at quarterback, but its offense had virtually no success against a Bucs defense that did everything it could. 
Peter scored on the Bucs' 
third offensive play when Jesse 
Armstead sacked Trent Dilfer 
and forced a fumble that 
bounced right into the hands of 
the 300-pound defonsive tackle. 
Weathers erased a 10-7 
Giants deficit with his 8-yard 
interception return late in the 
third quarter. Safety Percy 
Ellsworth picked off two Dilfer 
passes in the fourth quarter 
before the Tampa Hay quarter­
back was benched. 
Ellsworth's first interception 
set up Brad Daluiso's 36-yard 
field goal that made it 17-13 
with 12: 10 remaining. Eric 
Zeier replaced Dilfer with nine 
minutes to go but couldn't move 
the Bucs. 
The backup quarterback's 
last pass, on fourth down with 
about a minute left, was inter­
cepted by Phillippi Sparks. Two 
plays before, an apparent com­pletion to Karl Williams across midfield was reversed after ofli­cials reviewed a video tape under the new instant replay rule. 
Graham, who won New York's starting quarterback job by leading the Giants to a 5-1 rAcord in the final six weeks of last season, completed 12 of 23 passes for 91 yards. New York managed just 107 yal'ds total offense. 
Dilfer, under pressure to increase his production after foiling to lead Tampa Bay to the playoffs in 1998. was 15-of-31 for 174 yards and one touch­down -a 1-yard throw to Dave Moore that gave the Bucs a 10­7 halftime lead. 
Although much was made about the improvement of the Hues and Giants passing attacks during the preseason, Sunday figured to be a defensive strug­gle decided by which team was able to establish the run. 
The Giants didn't make a first 
down until Graham completed 
a 10-yard pass to Amani 
Toomer with five minutes left in 
the second quarter. They man­
aged another first down on the 
drive, but finished the half with 
53 yards, just 15 of that on the 
ground. 
Cardinals 25, Eagles 24 
Jake Plummer is up to his old 
tricks. 
After his three interceptions 
helped the Philadelphia Eagles 
to a 21-point lead in the first 
quarter, the young comeback 
artist led the Arizona Cardinals to a victory on Chris Jacke's 31­yard field goal as time ran out . 
"With 12 minutes left, I don't think I had to say it, but I did anyway. I said. 'We're down, but we're still in it,'" Plummer said. 
Then he walked down the benches telling his teammates, "You gotta believe!" 
Plummer, nursing a sprained thumb on his throwing hand and doubtful to play, went 25­of-48 for 274 y-ards and a touchdown. After throwing three interceptions in the first half, he led the Cardinals to two touchdowns and two field 'goals in the second half. 
Plummer said his hand felt 
fine. He was just rusty after 
missing Arizona's last two exhi­
bition games following the 
injury Aug. 20 against 
Tennessee. 
"I was just getting my feet wet in the first half," Plummer said. "I wasn't looking down · field, I was looking at the line­men. I hadn't played since Tennessee, and things arc 
faster than in the preseason." 
Arizona snapped its seven­
game losing streak in season 
openers and dealt a devastating 
blow to a team already picked 
to be the NFL's worst. 
"When you get ahead, you 
have to learn how to win. We 
learned something today," said 
Andv Reid, who lost his debut 
as Eagles coach. 
The Cardinals missed key 
players from last season to free 
agency, injuries and contract 
disputes, but got breaks this 
week when Plummer decided to play and Rob Moore signed a last-minute dim!. Moore had three catches for 77 yards and a touchdown. 
''I'm sure glad he was here because I don't think, if Rob wasn't here, we would have won the football game," coach Vince Tobin said. 
Adrian Murrell led the Cardinals with 53 yards on 24 carries and 47 yards on five catches. 
Arizona's final break came when Kwamie Lassiter picked off Doug Pederson at the' Cardinals 25 and returned it tu the Philadelphia 43 with 1 :49 left. Lassiter plucked the ball out of the air after Brian Finneran bobbled it. 
"If we execute properly, the game is over," Pederson said. 
Plummer hit Michacl Pittman for a 13-yard gain, then put the Cardinals on the 4 with a 17­yard run on a bootleg a few plays later. After Arizona ran the clock rlown to 4 seconds, .Jacke kicked the game-winner. 
In the first quarter, it looked as if Plummer should have staved on the sideline. His scat­ter~hot passes turned into thrne interceptions, and the Eagles led 24-6 at the hall'. 
Experience _d~ning in the truet)•~
spzrzt of Notre Dame. 5iuNs 
631-2020 

Wolfie's 
Pasta, Sandwiches, Service & More!!! 243-9911.for FREE DELIVERY open 10 am till 1'am (3 am on Fri. & Sat.) 
f-ND EAT MICH ST. TLUNCH (10 am till 4 pm)!
100% 
t • I 
, but don't spit them out "Coke®" & Chips : 
of participants in an independent 
l 50¢ off FREE l 
I I
study (7 guys in Zahm Hall) 
I I 
: Leprechauns or Spartans pasta with any Sandwich purchase ]
stated that after trying both 
: EXPIRES 09/19/1999 EXPIRES 07/01/2000 :
1---.---------------------------------+--------------------------------------t
Wolfie's and Subway® they !LATE NIGHT (9pmtil1Close): SNACK PACK would never eat any sub but I I 12" Meatball (& mozzarella sandwich) 2-Garlic Brad w/Cheese & 2 -Cokes®
I I I
Wolfie's again! I I I $4.99 $5
I 
I I I 
L ___________________________________ Jl. ___________________________________J
l EXPIRES 07/01/2000 -EXPIRES 07/01/2000 
Subs, Hoagies or Grinders-no matter what you call it, it's still a Sandwich. 
MONDAY free chips w/any  TUESDAY 2 (er Tuesda~  WEDNESDAY 50¢ off 8" sandwich  THURSDAY Large Pasta $3.99  FRIDAY $1 off any 16" sandwich  SATURDAY 6 wings free w/any party sub  SUNDAY free slaw or potato salad w/any 12" 
sandwich-all day  2nd pasta 1/2 price  

Menu & more available at WWW. WOLFIES.COM 

--~------..,....--·------­
Monday, September 13, 1999 
The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
...
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Thousands of fans Dlourn at 'Catfish' Hunter's funeral 
More than 1,000 family, of the cemetery. 
friends and former major Despite being baseball's first league teammates turned out 
big free agent, Hunter alwaysfor the funeral of the pitcher 
returned to this small eastern who won live World Series titles 
North Carolina town to live, and with the Oakland Athletics and eventually retire. New York Yankees. 
"It's like taking out a part of The 53-year-old Hunter died 
your body, like ripping out yourThursday, one year after learn­heart," former high school ing he had Lou Gehrig's dis­
teammate Eddie Miller said. 
ease. 
Bill Crawford drove about 70 Former teammate and Seattle 
miles from Virginia Beach to 
manager Lou Piniella missed stop by the cemetery and walk 
his team's game in Baltimore to 
past Hunter's marble shrinH on attend the service at the town's main street, which 
Cedarwood 
had flowers 
Cflmetery-. 
sprawledOther former "ft ·s like taking out a along it's 
teammates in 
basn.
part ofyour body, like
attendance 
"I'm not 
included A's ripping out your heart. " 
much into 
Joe Hudi, Vida 
baseball. 
Blue, Gene just know the
Eddie Miller
Tenace and man and I
" B I u e MOO n " former high school teammate of 
understand 
0 do m. and Jim 'Catfish' Hunter 
he was a 
Yankees Ron 
groat guy,"
Guidry and 
Crawford Reggie Jackson. said. "I heard he was just a The Yankees sent general straight and honest man, and 
manager Brian Cashman and 
had omi hellacious career as a former manager and scout 
pitcher. I just thought I would Gene Michael as their represen­
come down to sec where he 
tative. lived." "I was looking forward to 
In one store, there was a spending time with Catfish after baseball autographed bythe season. It didn't quite get to 
Hunter that had a sticker on the that," said Piniella, his eyes 
outside of the plastic case that teary. "My wife and I and my 
read: "Ball not for sale." young son are here to pay trib­
The most striking floral 
ute to him. He was a great guy." 
arrangement at Hertford A 15-year-old Hertford boy 
Baptist Church came from stood outside the cemetery gate 
Hunter's three children and wearing a Yankees hat as the 
grandchild. It was a huge base­hearse carrying Hunter's drove 
ball arrangement with white by. Players placed flowers on 
mums and roses as the scams Hunter's casket as they filed out of the ball. 
Campus View Apartments 
• 
Re1notleletl Luxury Suih~s 

• 
Furnished, Convt~nient & Affortluhh\ 

• 
Student. Leuse Ter1us 

• 
Wnlk to ND & Shops 


Call for Details! 272-1441 www.rent.net/direct/campusview 
Tru111an Scholarship 
• 
Informational Meeting 
Wednesday, September 15 
3:00 p.m. 
114 O'Shaughnessy 
would have despised this -hundred yards from the high
A.undated Pren 
people dressnd in suits making school field where he began a
IIFlrlHHW. N.C. 
a fuss ovpr him baseball career that would send 
.Jim "Catfish" Ihmtnr prohably 
IIn was buriBd Sunday. several him to the llall of Fame. 
Cll11,.1'S; TIii' l'E'RFE'CT e-tC&ISli FOR J. STIJl>Y e1r.. k OR FOR ..,n, occ•s10N. 
:t-A."Sl'I'A. '.Rl'rA. l{O}TD.AYS' 
"'we. Jo Mondays hke. no place. else." En.Joy a double order of faji1'a5 (enou~ for ±wo) for Jud 110.00 
Btl.Rq£.R Vet>NE;SD,A.YS' 
"Spend 'wednelldays wd-h the one.s you love." En.Joy any B19 Mou-th Bu,se.r af 11.00 OFF our re9ular price! 
PJ\E'I':{ Pt.A.rrt:.RS 
"The party .sfads here'' You pcoYlde. fhe ±ailt3a+e. we'll provide +he erub Party Platfenr rndude Wrne,s Over Buffalo. faJifas. Mombo Combo and moce Perle.cf for me.e+rnes or part1e5 

,, 
IS. 
& BAR 
Mishawaka 4810 Grape Road 219.271.1330 
Fulbright Essay Writing Worl~shop: One-to-One Tutorial Assistance 
Sponsored by: 
The Notre Dame Writing Center 
This workshop is for people who are applying for a Fulbright 
Scholarship and would like additional assistance writing their 
application essays. 
In this workshop, you will have a chance to work with a writing center tutor who will read your essay, discuss it with you, and work with you to improve it. The tutoring session will provide close, one to one writing instruction devoted to your essay. This is not a class but a working session for writers who wish to sharpen their essays before turning them in for the Fulbright competition. 
Where: 232 DeBartolo 
When: Monday, 6-8 p.m., September 13 
For more information about this and future writing center work­shops, contact John Duffy, Writing Center Director, at 631-7 265 or at Duffy.27@nd.edu. 


page 20 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, September 13, 1999 
.. 
-
.. 

NDCIBD 

COtl 

Notre Dame Student Council on International Business Development 
First Division Meetings (in Lafortune) 
Monday 
Operations Management Marketing Finance Business Services 
Tuesday 
Accounting 
,, f ,;;i...~ •..~...,.-~ :Ill:.~·-• '41· ••• 
I!'' "' ... ~-...., ... 
~
Internships . ........ 
.J.. ~ ~-··• __ :...~.\lit .:······
"-~: •-. -•' 
i' ~ •• w. --· •• •-· 
'!I' if-,t~.~ ~ :""•W; '4:·~ •f/6f-:,j~:............ 
~. ~ ~. -••.•...••
Citizens Democr'"'lill~ao.""'• , . ~ * * • • • • • 
< • • • *M' ~ • • • • • • 
,.,, 't f =4' .., .... '!'.il:'-4
~~=~.;,-11,,.,111-••·•·· 
~ ~ ~
, .. *. •-•
-,J''.9~·••=1:•=·•···
# -~ -~ •••• ~--. 
,-,:~ .,,,._._._ ..... .' .
:c ~--~. ...
~ ~ ~ 
» ~. 
~~·t<•·····
~ .. ...·--~
-~
• : • ~ . ~ ••.•• ­"' :1_1 ~ IC_ ,w-··• .• 
.,.,.... a-~,--•·*'•"'·•w• 
., ,fl; • . ••.• -,.,. 
" "' ... ~ ~-"' " =~-ii "' ,. lif: •-·•
tl'
The World is Wai 
)t. <i .. ·lit .• ·• • ~-' '"' .,, ... « ., .. ... " ' "' ,-, • lj: ..~........• ........, •• 
• . •A • '.~ < ..... 0 ;, • « A-«• ic .;,; •"' ~ .. '1< ,...~ ·-••·-•· ••• "l.l • 
-,;,. ;o: :¥: -~· :,i ,i,•' ~: + iii, ,l, <! " :ij. ..., ~ '" ,; ,. 'Ii'· ir' ·1111· ..,. • S,; ~ st, .• 
Get more lnformati ~:/iw~\V. h(i_:ed LI/~;~ 
• • . $ • 
i·-..-11.-. ,.. ,:,.,.•. •~--s. .;c».-·11r:r•• •• ,. .•• ,.~ ; >li:-t:<lf" i:, _:t:· ~-•· :j <1, ., ,! ~· ,; -~-,, ':i<-=~ .t; ,. • ;: ~·-:,-, a if 41 .,. , , .--< •. JI-' -f: ...,it -, tl!f
••=~--•t·A•lt ,:0:-lt-~:i.~.ti!,..W: 
'Iii! "' jf-'. • 'If, •• -~ ... ':II! ,,.. 4! .-_,,, ~ ­:-1! --~ -Jflii: ._ -,._ .. ff' i. j,. -2 II _, .;, -II' # ~ -. _.JI::. .
#·., -~ _.:,; __ 1!< •.!Ill,,_.,,·.,.,,_.~~ .. ~ :iii ••, _.,. 
•-•~.•= ~ ·-·-·-· -· 
·::~ ~-1'· • • • ~ .;. ·~.• ~ . 
. _:__ ...._,. .. -·
-
··---·­
Monday, Sepcember l 3, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
U.S.•OPEN 
Agassi uses fifth set to claim fifth Grand Slam title 
A«ociated Press 
NEW YORK 
l\ndrn l\gassi nevnr lost his snrvc or his nerve, even when !'odd Marlin s1wmed lo have him b11at. as lw capped one of tho grnntnst sumnwrs in tmrnis history by capturing his second U.S. Opm1. 
/\gassi came up wilh his most spllctacular shots -none bet­Wr than a lunging return from the court lhal broke Martin's scrv11 and spirit -in a domi­nating lif'th sd to win (1-4, 6-7 f;i-7). 6-7 (2-71. (1-:{. 6-2. 
/\gassi's fifth Grand Slam title ended a summer run that began with his surprising surge to the French Open champi­onship and continued with his runner-up finish to Pete Sampras at Wimbledon. No man sincP Ivan Lendl in 1986 had gone to three straight Grand Slam finals in the same year. 
No man had fought back to win the U.S. Open frnm a 2-1 deficit in sets since John Newcombe in 1 ()73. but that's exactly what Agassi had to do against an inspired Martin playing one of the finest match-
Introducing... 
~s 
_____________c)~o 
es of his life. hopped over to handcuff 
Martin always had all tho Martin. the outcome seemed tools of a champion -the big certain. serve, the sweet groundstrokes, Agassi made it five games in a the heart of a fighter -and ho row when he won the first almost became one at age 29. three in the final set, and he 
After losing his first service closed out the match by break­and the first set, Martin went ing Martin ono more time. too-to-toe with Agassi for the "I'll tell you what, how can next two sets, staying with him you ask for anything more than through long rallies and club­two Americans in the final of bing him with aces to force a the U.S. Open playing a great pair of tiebreakers that he won five-set match?" Agassi told the with unexpected ease. crowd after accepting the tro­
8  u  t  phy and the  
Agassi, who  winner's  
guaranteed  'TU tell you what. how can  check  for  
himself the No. I rank­ing after  you ask for anything more than two Americans in the  $750,000. "Win or lose, this is  
beating  final ofthe US. Open playing  the greatest  
Yevgeny Kafelnikuv  a great five-set match?"  time of my life. I·II  
in the semi­ never forget 
f i n  a l s ,  Andre Agassi  New  York  
responded  1999 U.S. Open champion  right here."  
the way the  Martin  
best player  hardly  

in the world should. looked like an unhappy loser. 
l\gassi bore down on Martin's He knew he had given all he serve early in the fourth set and could in a tournament in which broke him to change the tenor he had almost been taken in of the match. On one point in two previous five-setters, that game, Agassi almost including one against a qualifi­knocked Martin out, literally, er in the first round and anoth­slamming an overhead from er against No. 9 Greg Husedski point-blank range that miss'e9 in the fourth round. After that Martin's skull by inches. match with Rusedski, Martin 
Martin never recovered. was so drained he needed to be Though he ran his ace total to rehydrated intravenously. 23 -16 more than Agassi -"Andre, you played great. You he never could find a way to deserve it," Martin said. "l break /\gassi's serve. When couldn't think of a bettnr way to Agassi broke him again at lh(! go out than to play a great end of the fourth set, the last match against a great champi­point on a fornhand return that on." clippcd tho nl~t cord and The match was only the lif'th all-American men's final at the 
U.S Open in the 32 years of the open era, and the matchup of two 29-year-olds was the oldest since 39-year-old Ken Hosowall lost to 22-year-old Jimmy Connors in 1974. 
From Paris to New York, Agassi has sizzled this summer with 35 victories in 39 matches. Three of his losses came against Sampras, who had been seeded No. 1 but pulled out of the Open with a back injury the day before he was to play in the first' round. 
With Sampras gone, and twu­ti me del'ending champion Patrick Hafter soon to follow with a shoulder injury, the top half of tho draw was open for everyone·. Martin seized the opportunity and survived his close matches to reach a Grand Slam final for the second time in his earner. lie had gone to the 1994 Australian Open final, where he lost to Sampras. and now he can say he lost to tlrn other dominant player of the decade. 
Agassi had hoped to play Sampras again to get a mna­su re of revenge for his Wimbledon beating. Against Martin he faced a player who was almost, but not quite. as tough. 
When Agassi won the French, he joined Hoy Emerson. Hod Laver, Don Budge and Frnd Perry as tlrn only men to win all four major tournaments in their earner. Now, perhaps, with his second U.S. Opnn. /\gassi is on his way lo a double canrnr Grand Slam. 
7th Annual Emil T. Hofman Lecture (Did your Dad or Mom have him?) 
"GLOBAL HEALTH: FROM ABIJAN TO ATLANTA, FROM NEPAL TO NOTRE DAME--­CLOSING THE GAPS IN THE YEAR 2000" 
•
Michael B. Heisler, M.D., M.EH. '71 Associate Professor ofMedicine Morehouse School ofMedicine Edward P. Sorin Distinguished Alumnus Award 1990 
Saturday, September 18, 1999 I 0:00 a.m. -11:30 a.m. (Before the Michigan State game) Cushing Engineering Auditorium 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, September 13, 1999 
.. W.Soccer 
continued from page 24 
the second half, we just picked it up a bit and ended up play­ing more of our game." 
The Irish game included much more scoring. In the first half, the lone Irish goal camP off of a header by Meoti~ Erikson. Erikson picked up her first goal and fifth point of the season after defender Kara Brown crossed the ball to her from the right side of the box. 
The second half scoring began at in lhe 53rd minute. 
Jenny Heft fired a shot from 30 [eet away after St. John's failed to clear thf' hall. 
Grubb connected with fellow captain Jenny Streiffer off a free kick from 25 yards away Grubb's kick from the right side of the net was redirected into the upper right corner of the net by Streiffer with a header at the near post. 
Grubb said that scoring off a free kick was a goal of the team heading into the game. 
GOLF 

piece," she said. "We had a~ few opportunities earlier in the game and I was really concen­trating on achieving that goal. I was more interested in get­ting things done that we had goal. Irish forward Erich Braun had the most shots on
Belles place third at Pine River 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI Sporrs W ricer 
The Belles' golf team brought home third place Saturday at the Pine River county club tournament. 
"We started off this season with a big bang," Mary Claire Hathaway said of the opener opener. The Belles scored 351, only one stroke behind Alma, the second place team, who earned a 350 team score. Albion College took first with a score of 329. 
"This is the lowest overall team score [for Saint Mary's] so far," head coach Theresa Pekarek said. "We beat the team that won the conference last year." 
Hope College, winner of this tournament last season, and the conference, took fourth with a team score of 358. 
Last year's results for this tournament were a bit differ­ent. Hope won with a 341, Albion was second with a 363, Alma was took third with a 368, and the Belles brought home fourth with a 383. 
Six Belles played in the tour­nament. 
Captain Kyle Veltri led her team with 85 and a three-way tie for fifth in the individual standings. She was supported by Natalie Cook, who shot 86 for sixth place. Mary Claire Hathaway scored 87 and tied for ninth, and Molly Lee rounded out Saint Mary's top four with 93 for 18th place. 
"I was excited [to hear my score]," Cook said. 
Cook, a junior transfer, has not played competitive golf since her senior year in high school. 
"I was very happy with the team's performance," Pekarek said. 
Due to illness, Heather Goodrich was unable to play in this weekend's meet. Freshman Kara Harms trav-
Did you know? 
There is a group on campus to help students facing disciplinary hearings before the Office of Residence Life. Peer advocates are specially trained to guide students through the disciplinary process. They comprise a division ofJudicial Council, a Student Government organization, and are not part of Residence Life. 
Judicial Council is recruiting sophomores, juniors and seniors for a limited number ofopenings in the Peer Advocacy division. Applications are now available in the Student Government office on the second floor of LaFortune, and are due by Wednesday, September 15. 
Questions? Call Kelly Folks at 1-4556 

The last Irish goal came in the 83rd minute, when Monica Gonzalez on~-time? a crossing pass from Erikson mto t?e net. 
M. Soccer
The goal was Gunzalez s sec­ond of the year. 
continued from page 24 
28 shots on goal while the Irish came up with 13. Panthers midfielder Ben Garry led tho scoring attempts for Pittsburgh with 11 shots on 
goal for Notre Dame with three. Pittsburgh came out on the
eled in her place, shooting a 
offensive in the first overtime
95, good enough for 20th place 
period, outshooting Notre
overall, although it did not 
Dame 8-0. 
count toward the team's score. 
It was a different story at the
"Kara stepped up really 
start of the second overtime
well," Pekarek said. 
period, as the Irish put the
Pekarek added that she was 
Panthers on the defensive
pleased with Harms' perfor­
from the start, delivering five 
mance especially because 
shots on goal, while not allow­
Harms did not know until the 
ing the Panthers to get off a
day before that she would he 
single shot. 
taking Goodrich's place at Pine 
"Everybody was tired," said
River. Heather Podraza 
Lyskawa. "We went deep into
rounded out the team's perfor­
our bench -getting some
mance with a 99 for 26th place 
rested players on the field
in the individual standings. 
YOU 
JUST FOUND A DIAMOND IN A MOUNTAIN 
OF ROCKS. 
probably helped us get some more shots off [in the second overtime]." 
Irish goalkeeper Gerick Short and the Panther's Gaul kept their teams in the game, recording career-highs in saves. Short came away with six saves while Gaul tallied nine on the afternoon. 
Lyskawa's first-half goal is only Notre Dame's third goal in four games. Freshman offensive players have been instrumental in the teams vic­tories; Lyskawa joins first-year players Rafael Garcia and Braun as the lone goal scor­ers. 
Ranked 16th, the tie moves Notre Dame to 2-1-1 on the year and 1-0-1 in Big East play. Pittsburgh has compiled a 1-2-2 record this season and has yet to earn a conference win at 0-1-1 in the Big East. 
The Irish take the field again on Tuesday when they host Cleveland State on Alumni Field. 
Looking for a fun and rewarding 
PART-TIME job? 
Omnipoint has the perfect position for you! A leader in the wire­less industry, we are currently seeking part-time employees to help us expand our fast growing market. 
PRODUCT SAMPLERS 
10-15 Hours per week (Weekend hours required) $10 per hour PLUS commissions! If you enjoy meeting people -want to gain selling experience -want to learn more about the explosive telecommunications business AND want a FREE PCS Digital Phone, then 
OMNIPOINT wants to speak with you! 
For immediate consideration, fax, e-mail or call today! Fax: 317-34 7-7024. E-mail: bhatcher@omnipoint-pcs.com Ph: 317-347-7100. An EOE, we screen candidates for a drug-free work environment. 
~OMNIPOINT" 
WHERE PROMISING FUTURES ARE TAKING SHAPE. 
www.omnfpoint.com 

Monday, September 13, 1999 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
FOURTH AND INCHES 
IIT fELLAS. \rJ~ G 
~-we: Gor f.t.JA<.k 
-r l~A PPnJIIJC. ?01 s ~I: CO\JI.O 'W£ W 
• 
\ 
Fox TROT (DILBERT HAs Movrn To THE v1EwP01NT PAGEs.J 
1h15 ANAL,ST THINKS
" WHAT?
~ 
THE Ftt>ERAL RESERVE 
MA't' HIKE RATES
IwooHoo.' 
S MIJC:H AS A 
~ \ VARTER PERCENT 
NEXT MONTH.
i~ ' 
I. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 34 Place for washing
1 Keep on instructions 
(watch) 35 Ambulance 
s Largest city in personnel, for Nebraska 
short 10Computer 
36 Baba 
operator 37 Can't stop 14 Lifetime Oscar thinking aboutwinner Kazan 
something1s Bars of soap 
39 Vampire slayers 16 Botanical joint 
42 It may test the 17 "American waters 
Graffitf" actress 43 Shade trees 
19 fhwart 47 Bnng to bear 20 Where bandits 48 Newlyweds" trip 
hole upI 51 Army shelters 
21 Caulking I matenal 52 Rudolph and teammates
122 Hot rod 54 Gush
125 Steps that cross I a fence 57 Flow (from) 
1 
JO Mountain 1n Rio 62 Magnificent de Janeiro display 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 Roll out 
F T 11 Combustion ~~:.=...-'--+-'E--+:R--, byproduct ..::...i..::...i..::...if'.-C-l,_;;L'-4-'-E:...i 12 Not leave alone ..::...i..::...i,.;:L:.+=E:.J 13 Have faith 
L 18 Alpine songs -..::...ii..::....1-:E:..i 21 For each one 2311 comes in sticks 24 Three-striper: Abbr. 25 Soviet news agency -~~.:~:...i 26 Indolence 
0 
8 ~i-.;...~.._,.._,,..1-+-E-+-..., 27 No-no N T A A C C R E D I T 28 "Peer Gynt" P E O R I A W H A T N O T S playwright 
63 Like eyes during a boring speech 66 Subdivision 67 Sea duck 68 Swerve 69 Circus safety equipment 70Woman's undergarment 71 Equips for war 
DOWN 
1 "Rambling Wreck From Georgia--" 
2Ja1 -­3 Fasten 4 Marquis de --­5 Take place 6 D1gest1ve 
enzyme 7 Letters before an 
alias sPartofH.M.S. 9 Inquire 
So DAD OFTEN FoRuE"TS To PA'f 
ME M'f AlloW~CE Tl-IE EXACT 
M1NVTE 
!'T'S DVE. 

Puzzle by Nancy Kavanaugh 
29 Businessman 49 Spews lava lacocca 
50Still 31 Like some 
53 Nail file 
sturdy furniture 54 Made a web
32 Notify of danger 55 Corn bread 
33 Punchers 56 Leave out
38 Tractor-trailer 
TOM KEELEY 
A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM 
BILL AMEND 
lHE PoWER of ALREAD1' CoNF0Ut11)1NE, 11-ltS "fEAR 1NTEREST. HE owES ME 
I THREE· TENTHS oF A PENNY.' 
I 
Ironically enough, there is a long history of clock management in the Davie family. 
beam.1 @nd.edu 
HOROSCOPE 
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1999 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jacqueline Bisset, Claudette Colbert, Fred Silverman, Nell Carter,· Peter Cetera, Mel Tonne 
Happy Birthday: You must recog­nize your desires if you wish to accomplish them this year. lt's time to put your good common sense and discipline to good use. Re-evaluate your past and make dear and consci­entious decisions in order to move into a more positive and progressive direction. Your numbers: 6, 17, 22, 25, 39, 46 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your outgoing nature, coupled with your sense of humor, will attract passionate partners. You can develop your cre­ative talents if you enroll in classes that will help you realize your potential. 
000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't limit yourself by being stub­born. Your refusal to listen to the advice given by friends or relatives will be your downfall and could lead to your demise in this particular situation. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will have to express your feelings by saying exactly what you think. Keep in mind that the problems that exist 
59 Declare are probably based on untruthfulness. Avoid love triangles. 000
60 Swarm 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You 
will have a greater concern with your 
61 Makes a 
financial position. Use your creative awareness to come up with ideas that 
boo-boo 
63 Receive 
will bring you more money. You need to recognize your own talent first.
64 Tell a tall tale 
00000 
58 Spectacular star 65 Build (on) 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You won't get the reaction you want from your 
40 Foursome 
41 Lizzie Borden 
mate. Intimate relationships with col­
used one 
leagues wiU lead to gossip and a loss
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 44 Creepy Chaney 
of reputation. Be cautious if you don't 
are available by touch-tone phone: 45"The­1-900-420-5656 (95c per minute). 
EUGENIA LAST 
want to j~opardize your job. 00 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Hid­
den assets will make your life a little 
easier. Small business ventures will 
pay off as long as you are willing to 
roll up your sleeves and work. 
0000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Volun­teer work will bring you in contact with people who have the same beliefs as you. Don't donate large sums of money to any cause even if you do believe. Give hands-on help, not cash. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't expect others to do things without being asked first. You will have to spend time sorting out other people's problems. Try to control your dis­gruntled attitude. It will only make matters worse. 000 
SAGfITARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
Love connections can be made through travel, adventures, seminars or conventions you attend. You will have fun if you can gamble without going overboard. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You should get involved in financial ventures, but don't overextend your­self. Be sure you put some cash aside in case of an emergency. A family member may need your help. 0000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Your interaction with others will lead to partnerships. Don't be afraid to join in if you believe in the project. Your intuition should lead you in the right direction. 00 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You can win points at work. Colleagues will back your ideas and your state­ments. Stand up for your rights and refuse to settle for less than you're worth. 00000 
Birthday Baby: Your friendly nature will lead you into a world that contains 
Squad'" 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 
plenty of interaction with others. You are flexible, intelligent and willing to join 
46 Reacted to dust. best of Sunday crosswords from the last 
forces with others to reach a higher goal. 
maybe 50 years 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
{Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, 
eugenialaslcom, astromate.com.) 
© 1999 llnivers.al Pre::;s Syndicatl'
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
---------~---------------------------------------------------------------­
Make checks payable to: The Observer .. 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name ______________________ Address ___________________ 
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
.. -· -.. --­
NFL opening weekend
... 
Quarterback Vinny Testaverde's 1999 season ended abruptly, when he was injured in the Jets' loss · to the Patriots. 
page 15
PORTS 
O
TI-IE 

CROSS COUNTRY
WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Storm unable to Inatch Irish fury 
Runners start year 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Associate Spom Editor 
St John's hung with the No. 4 Notre Dame women's soccer team for the first half before the Irish woke up in the sec­
... 
ond half to pick up the 4-0 win. 
The Bed Sturm held the Irish to just one goal on five shots Sunday in Jamaica. N.Y., at DaSilvia Memorial Field in the first half' to head into the lock­er room trailing just 1-0. Notre Dame, however, stepped up its play at halftime and ontshot St. John's 16-3 in the second half. 
"I don't think it was what we were expeCLing [to be so dose at halftime]." senior captain Jen Grubb said. "And I don't think we were happy with our performance but we never doubted that we would score some more points in the sec­ond half." 
Playing on Astroturf affected the Irish in the first half. The faster play and strange bounces hurt the team, according to Grubb. 
"It is so different playing on Astroturf," she said. "The ball was bouncing differently and people were slipping -stuff that doesn't happen normally." 
The Irish also dominated the Red Storm in their previous four meetings -picking up four wins and not allowing a single goal. LaKeysia Beene and Elizabeth Wagner com­bined for the shutout. The his­tory with St. John's and the long road trip contributed to 
off on right foot 
pionship without running sev­eral of' their top runners, instead choosing to rest them for the National Catholic Invitational, set to begin this Friday at Notre Dame. Ryan Maxwell, Ryan Shay and Luke WaL<ion, all top returnees from the 1998 season, sat out of' the Valparaiso meet. 
The women linished second to a solid Marquette team, 21­
20. The race was closer than the numbers show, howovcr. 
"We had seven of' the top 14 finishers," said Pianc. "Unfortunately, so did Marquette." 
Freshman Jennifer Handley won the 5,000-meter (3.1 miles) in 18:00. It was her first competition on the collegiate level, but sh11 displayed her tal­ent and potential by leading throughout the race. 
"I was happy with my perfor­mance, but we have a lot big­ger meets coming up," Handley said. "It's still kind of early to get excited about anything. I went out pretty fast and just kind of held the lead the whole race." 
Erin Luby, a senior captain, was second for the Irish and 10th overall in the meet. Bridget O'Brien, Krissy Kunster, Muffy Schmidt, Carrie Eaton and Cara Motter crossed the line shortly after Luby. 
The women, expected to compete for the top spots in the region this season, prefered to rest their top five returning athletes for this Friday's meet. 

By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
As,istam Spom Editor 
The Notre Dame men and womtm's cross country teams began their season in style Saturday, with the men bring­
ing home the ~-~-~--, title from the Valparaiso Invitational and the women plac­ing second. Sophomore M a r c Striowski led the Irish, winning the 8-kilometer meet in a time of 
24:48. He broke the old course record of 25:06 by 18 seconds en route to the victory. 
Sean McManus, Pat Conway, John Dudley and Antonio Lopez followed Striowski to the finish line. All five scoring runners finished in the top nine overall, and the top seven scoring run­ners were in the top 15 overall. 
Scoring is based on the totals of the top five runners' places. with the lowest score taking first place. Notre Dame domi­nated its competition, tallying only 26 points, and Purdue, the. next closest team, scored 72. 
the slow first half, Grubb said. like we normally do," Grubb "We knew we had a chanceIn the second half, however, said. "I felt like we were a little to win if the kids ran well," said the Irish came out more fired bit soft in the first half. They head coach Joe Piane. "They
up and better mentally pre­were beating us to balls and 
ran probably even a little bitpared to win. things that we could control. In better than we anticipated. It
"We just stepped up our 
bodes well for the future." 
intensity and came out to play The Irish captured the cham­
see W. SOCCER/page 22 

MEN'S SOCCER 
• Notre Dame, Pittsburgh battle to Big East stalemate 
By KERRY SMITH Spom Writer 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team played to their second­
• 
.. 
straight overtime game and tied 1-1 Saturday against Big East rival University of Pittsburgh. "Pittsburgh was a real solid team," said freshman midfielder Alan Lyskawa. "They played a hard man-to-man and didn't give us anything They chal­lenged every ball and played us really tight." 
The lrish found themselves on unfamiliar ground. Pitt Stadium uses Astroturf instt>ad of natural grass, which caused the team a few problems. "It was a hard situation to 
"Pittsburgh was a real solid team. They played a hard man-to-man and didn't give us anything." 
Alan Lyskawa Irish midfielder 
play in and so we had to adapt," said Lyskawa. "Turf's a lot faster and harder. The game is a much faster pace and it's a lot harder to control the ball." 
Lyskawa put Notre Dame on top just 13 minutes into the first half of play when he capitalized on a ball from junior midfielder Connor LaRose. Lyskawa he'ld­ed the ball past Panther goal­keeprir Justin Gaul off a header from LaRose to lead Pittsburgh 1-0. 
Despite being outshot 10-5 in the first half, the !rish clung to the lead until midway through the second half. 
The Panthers took control of the game in the second half. delivering nine shots on goal to Notre Dame's three. 
Pittsburgh tied the game at 
63:50 when sophomore forward Mark Sikora took advantage of a pass from senior midfielder Reagan Bender. 
The game remained locked at 1-1 through two overtime peri­ods. Both squads had many scoring opportunities, but nei­ther team capitalized. The Panthers finished the game with 
sec M. SOCCER/page 22 

vs. Michigan State vs. Buder e Saint Mary's Volleyball Satuday, I :30 p.m. Wednesday, 7 p.m. at Lake Forest, 
SPORTS ~ ~ 
Tuesday, 7 p.m. 
ATA 
vs. Cleveland State Volleyball Saint Mary's Soccer Tueday, 7 p.m. vs. Miami (Ohio) at Kalamazoo College, 
GLANCE ~ • e Saturday, 7 p.m. Wednesday, 4 p.m. 

