
Friendship in France? 
Monday
¦ Look inside for reviews of Kevin Costner's 
¦ NATO peacekeepers negotiate Balkan peace talks 
new movie "Message in a Bottle." 
in France. 
FEBRUARY 22, 
Scene• 12-13 
World & Nation • 5 1999 

THE 


VOLXXXII NO. 94 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 



IEIIAL B1111: 

Volunteers shape souls with Bangladesh service 
By MICHAEL ROMANCHEK 
News Writer 
Halfway around the world nxists a Notrn Damn most peopln could novnr imaginP. Sixty students crammPd into an 0'Shaughnnssy-sizml classroom and honw­less people sharing lunch .-1

1:1i:ut~;1­
with thn student body are 
foreign concepts for most Bengal Bout~ 
Notre Danw studPnts. coverage in 
For Notre Damn CollPgP s 
, pons,
students in Dhaka, p.22-23 Bangladesh, thny am a 
part of ewryday life. 
Like its American countnrpart. NotrP Dame College in Dhaka. tho capital of' impoverislwd Banglad!'sh. ranks as onP of' 
the country's top private collPgns. It is orrn of nine lloly Cross schools in Bangladnsh, tlw twPlfth most-populatPd country in tlw world. 
"The povnrty outsidP of tlw walls lof' Notn• Dame collngnl is likn nothing you could <'Vnr possibly imagine," said lfongal Bouts rnach Tom Suddns, who visited Bangladcsh and saw the Bengal Bouts morrny at work. "It's incredible; you walk into thn compound and it's difforcnt. It's simple and mat Spartan hut it's dif'fornnt. It's amazing what our money does ovnr thorn." 
Seven of' the lioly Cross schools arn pri­mary schools, equivalnnt of' gracf Ps orw through 10 in America. Notrn Danrn and its sister school. I Ioly Cross Collngn, am tlw top 
see BOUTS/ pagt· 4 

¦ BLACK HISTORY MONTH 


Celebration highlights black culture 
ByTIM LOGAN 
/\.ssoriare New,; £di1or 
A diver,m g-uthnring or stucttrnts and faculty lilll·d LaFortu110 Ballroom Friday night for the sixth 11n11ual Blak Koffof' llouse, a night of poetry and music in celebration of i\l'rican-Americnn cult.urn. 
This war's rvent, themed "Portraits of our C:onciot1sness,'' fnalurtid eight speakers who rndtr>d tlmlr own work or the work of utlrnrs who th0y folt captun'd tho rsscncc of thrir fooling. 
"Thi-i idon of 'Portraits of our Conciousness' is to look inside your heart and take a pic­ture of what's going on inside," said junior Wit M,Ltthews. one of the event's emcees. A mnnbPr of participants undertook this nlfort, and thf'ir rucitations rangt'd from personal love poetry lo old poems of' the antebellum South. 
Several poets discussed being black in today's J\mnica. "It mearn; t.o be proud of' all Umt _you are 
see KOFFEE / page 6 

Female Hoosier students benefit from LONI 
By JENNY BRADBURN 
News Writer 
For Hadwl Hodarte of Dyer, Incl.. accnptance into a top-rated college was a proud accomplishment, but it was not until she was chosen as a New Leader of Indiana that attending Saint Mary's became feasible. 
"l was so excited when the letter came because being chosen to participatf' in the program and getting the associated scholarship meant I would bP able to go to Saint Mary's," she said. 
Hodartn and the othPr selncted students havn bcnelit­tml from the pffort made by thti state or Indiana to make attending a college within Indiana more attractive and possible. Tim L(!aclcrs of a Nrw Indiana (LON[) project began as a cullaborative effort between Chamber of Commerce leaders, Saint Mary's faculty and community kaclers in response to the low numbnr of Indiana resi­dents who are over age 25 and hold u bachelors degree. 
The initiative of the project is focused on hnlping Indiana students from small communities go to college, stay in collnge and find an opportunity for employment in their home community. 
Saint Mary's was the chosen recipient of a generous grant for tho Lilly Endowment to fund the project, a decision that according to LONI Director Maria Thompson. "was because the program offers prn-col­lrge programs. on-campus support, and makes partici­pants aware of all Indiana has to offer when making carmir decisions al'ttir graduation." 
High school freshmen and sophomores get a preview for college life in the "My First Day in College" program. They have the opportunity to visit campus, eat lunch 
see LONI/ page 4 



Hail to the Chief 
lln you know what is significant about today'! \,\'!'II. ]J('sidi>s b<'ing 29 ynars a11d a day aflnr lfobhv llull snirml his ;'iOOth ca.rePr goal, Feb. 22 is (;Porgn Washington's birthday. 
VPry l"c'W fl!~opll', howc•vff. could actuallv Mike Connolly 
!Pil you that today is · Sports Copy Edllor Washingt.on·s birthday. Why is tlrn birth or one or our great leaders so Ntsily forgottPn? 
BecaUS() for sonw 1·nason, FPbruary happens to bP tlw month or thr, births of monumental i\mr•rican lc1adors -besides Washington, t\braham Lincoln also calls Lhc amethyst his birthstonr•. 
The rdative proximity of'tlrnso two births led tlll' L.S. govPrnnwnt in not crnating two federal l10lidavs so closP to Pach othr.r. but instead to (TPat,; onn, all-c•nrompassing prPsidr,nlial holi­day on tlin third Monday in Fnbruary. This hol­iday has Ind lo a lark of recognition for thr actual birth dates ofWashington and Lincoln. Plus." elc11w11tary sr.hool students everywhere gl'l one l1'SS clay off of school. As I lorn er Simpson would say, ''President's Day! What a rip-0111" 
Yet, pPl'lwps it is bet!Pr that AmPrica.ns an• lnss like Iv to remember Lincoln and Washing.ton and rnller.L on their great accum­plish11w11ts. For if' t\mericans wen~ to look upon the drcds of Washington and Lincoln, they 
might bPrnmr even morn jaded and cynical 
about the current state ofAmerican govern­
ment. 
Washington and Lincoln each faced crisis l'rom oulsid1\ that threatened the very existence of the Unitrd Statr,s of America. Our current l'rPsidPnt, William Jefferson Clinton. has creat­ed crisis from within his administration that thrnatPns the dignity of his office. 
Lincoln was "l lmrnst Abe" and Washington was "Tlw Fathrr of Our Country." Clinton will be f"ornver remmnberrd as '"Slick Willie." 
\Vashinhrton couldn't tell a lie. Clinton appPars unable to tell the truth, the whole truth or anything that might be vaguely con­strued as tlw truth. 
Lincoln wrote one ofthe most memorable s1wcclrns in the history ofAmerican politics, Tlw Gettysburg Address. Clinton, on the other hand, has sta!Ts of speech writers turn out spPedws that then have every line tested for public rPaction before being delivered on national tPlevision. 
Despite !Im extra lrnlp that Clinton employs, I cannot 1u11ember a single line from any s1wnrh that Clinton has ever given. While I can rc•cite largP parts of' the Gnttysburg address, I can only n'n11m1bnr one sound byte from Clinton's mouth: "I did not have snx with that woman. Not once, never." 
. Sonrn may argue~ that Clinton never had the chance to be nmrnmbered as a great president. Most of tlrn problems Clinton has facnd deal with the stability of his marriage. It seems that lwrause lrn didn't have any problems thrust upon him from the outside world. he felt com­prllPd to crnatn problems for himself. 
Perhaps it is bettnr that Washington and Lincoln Pxistml in their own times and not today. With the emergence of the evening newscast and its 30-second stories, would "The GNtysburg Address" be forever reducnd to a sound byto? Would private secrets hidden deep within his pa.st have destroyed Washington's noble image? 
Or perhaps were Lincoln and Washington great presidents who will forever stand the test of time and public scrutiny; while Clinton will be remembered as a man whose out-of-control libido doomed what was possibly a promising political career? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column 
are those of the author and nol necessarily 
those ofThe Observer. 
¦ TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Scene  
Christine Kraly  Mike Vanegas  
Finn Pn:ssly  Graphics  
Josh Bourgeois  Scott Hardy  
Sports  Production  
Kati Miller  Kathleen Lopez  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Mary Margaret Nussbaum  Liz Lang  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) 1s published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation pe"riod~. Tht! Ob1-ervrr is a memb~r of rhe Assocmted Pres~. All reproduction right:s arc reserved. 

The Observer• INSIDE Monday, February 22, 1999 


utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire repnrts 

Faculty votes in favor of controversial Greek initiative 
HJ\NOVEH, N.11. 
The College's faculty voted 82-0 at a special meeting Thursday tu support the rnnt.roversial social and residen­tial lif'c initiative announced last week by the Board of Trustees which, among other things, threatens the existf'nce of llH' single-sex Greek sys­tem at Dartmouth. 
In the two-hour meeting character­iznd by one faculty member as "utter­ly confused" and another as "al! twist­ed up," numerous drafts, motions and amendments of' resolutions to support the five guiding principles were pro­posed and dehatnd seemingly simulta­nPous!y and with little nrdnr. 
While Collngc prosident James Wright began the meeting by joking that only three parts of" the plan have been criticized -"the process, the substance and the way in which it was communicated" -litt!P of' that criticism was seen yesterday, 


(Ilartmouth C0Uc9e 
although some members of the faculty expressed concern that they were not made more a part of thP decision making process. 
Most of the disagrenment during the meeting centered not on tlrn princi­ples themsnlves but instead on how strong the support they give the Trustees' initiative should be and how active tho faculty should be in assist­ing the goals' implementation. 
So limited was the discussion on the live guiding principles or their obvious Greek implications that when one prof'nssor rose and said, "can wo have a discussion on tlrn principles them­selves'?" crins of "no" could bo heard throughout tho !'acuity. 
Instead of a voicn of support, Director of the Rockefeller Center Linda Fowler suggested the resolution express that "the faculty welcomes the opportunity to engage" the stu­dents in discussions on tho initiatives because she said shn felt "the stu­dents already fee! besieged" by the initiatives and their underlying mean­ings. 
She said having tlrnir own faculty 
voice strong support for the  sanrn  
goals would  look  like>  they  were  
"ganging up on the students."  

Associate Professor of llnligion Susan Ackerman said she disagreed with Fowler's assertion that students reel bnsieged, and said she has spoken with students who support the\ Trustees' announcement. 
¦ UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN 

Graduates may authorize strike 
AN!\' ARBOR, Mich. 
After five months of tug-of-war contract negotiations with the University, members of the Graduate Employees Organization have until midnight to decide whether to give GEO leadership the ability to authorize a strike -a step many GEO members say they are ready to make. If the majority of the membership votes yes, the GEO steering committee will be able to authorize many University gradu­ate student instructors to take job action, which could include a strike or a walkout. GEO spokesperson Chip Smith said that, based on the University's response to his organiza­tion in bargaining sessions, the steering committee could opt for something more serious than most people think. "People should expect a serious, extended action and I'm not talking about a one-or two-day walkout," Smith said. "We are being driven to strike by the University, specifically by [University Chief Negotiator] Dan Gamble's refusal to negotiate with us." 
¦ OiJKE Uiv!VERS!TY Police demand collective bargaining 
DURHAM, N.C:. 
Within a month, the uniformed patrol officers in the Duke 
University Police Department may pursue the right to collec­
tive bargaining with the administration; University officials 
are less than thrilled with the possibility. Leaders of the 
Durham Police Officers Association said that the requisite 50 
percent of eligible Duke officers have joined the group and 
expressed interest in collective bargaining. They will soon 
forward the officers' names to the International Union of 
Police Associations. Within a month, said DPOA vice presi­
dent and Durham police officer Jeff Kraus, the Duke patrol 
officers should hold a formal vote for the right to collective 
bargaining. Founded last November, DPOA includes officers 
from the Durham Police Department as well as from DUPD. 
Under North Carolina state law, DPD officers may not bar­
gain collectively for wages; however, because the University 
is a private entity, Campus Police may do so. 

¦ Ui\l!VERS!TY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE Senate cited for alcohol violations 
DUHIIAM,N.11. 

In an attempt to begin repairing the shattered reputa­tion of the student senate, the administration has issued three sanctions, which they said they hope will educate senators while holding them accountable for their mis­takes. An investigation of senate in the last weeks of January ended with two senators admitting to drinking during a senate meeting. One of those senators is under­age. The fate of the two guilty senators, who were f'orced to resign from tlrn organization, !ins in the hands of the judicial board. The rest of senatn is being forcml by the administration to participate in a morals and ethics work­shop, an alcohol awareness workshop and a community service activity. Some senators said they feel the sanctions may ha':e a positive impact on senat11. Molly McCarthy, speaker of the senate, said the sanctions will mark the beginning of many changes in senate. 
¦ UN!VERsnv or: CoLOHADO 
Victim finds attacker in newspaper 
B0ULDEH, Colo. 

The day after the Super Bowl, Patrick Walsh, a 23-year­old Boulder resident, sat in a chair at his dnntist's ollice. He was about to find out hn would lose two of his teeth as tlrn result of an attack. Walsh had been assaulted the night before during the post-game partying on the IIill. A rioter who Walsh said mistook him for a police officer attacked, hitting him in the face with a heavy object. lie had no idea who his attacker was. But as he sat in the dentist's office, a picture on the front of a newspaper caught his eye. Walsh recognized the man jumping through flames in the picturn as his attacker. "I was sitting in the dentist's office," said Walsh, "and sitting next to me was this guy reading thn Camera and I said, 'that's the guy."' Walsh contacted the police, who put an advertisement requesting information about the alleged attacker in the Daily Camera. said Detective Barry Hartkopp of the Boulder Police Department. 
¦ SOUTH BEND WEATHER ¦ NATIONAL \JVEATHER 
S Day South Bend Forecast 

AccuWeather"forecast for daytime conditions and high temreratures 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Monday, Feb. 22. 
30S Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

Monday ~ 2~ 9: Tuesday +.;::-.,::-.2!) l~
cD_.'· .... •··············· 
Wedn~sday~ 36 19 
Thursday @, 4i  ··  24  
;  40s © 1999 AccuWeather, Inc.  ~ COLD  WARM -----­ ~ STATIONARY  
Friday I\~ 36 f;--··\\~-' ~.., ,  24  Prossur11: ® Cb) ' CJ. .High Low Showers Rain T-storm5  . GI]. . .Flurries Snow Ice  0 Sunny  r;~aj, Pl. Cloudy  Cloudy*•  
Atlanta 50 24 Dallas  56 36  Palm Beach  63  
Baltimore 29 18 Denver  38 18  Phoenix  68  
5~~1~q~Q{) ~  Boston 25 17 Indiana polis 30 11  San Diego  64 
4 ~  Chicago 30 22 Los An geles 69 47  Seattle  51  
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy  Cloudy  Columbus 31 11 New Yo rk 27 21  Tucson  70  


47 47 43 40 42 

iv1onday, February 22, 1999 


Conference highlights homeless problem 
The Observer/Manuela Hernandez (From left to right) Discussion moderator Sister Linda Kors, senior policy analyst Matt McDermott and Sarah's Circle representative Gail Russell participated in a discussion at Saint Mary's addressing the problem of homelessness. 

Do you want real business experience before you graduate? 

The Student Business Board is in search of a General Manger for the 1999-2000 academic year. Duties include oversight of the finances of Adworks, Irish Gardens, and ND Video as well as other administrative duties. Applications can be picked up in Student Activities located in 315 Lafortune 
If there are any questions, call Jeanine at 631-8040 


0 

Come Join the Tradition Applications are now being accepted for rne:~,aij;; positions for the 1999-2000 academic schdol:,tfl 
You may pick up applications aftfitl:I Office of Student Activities' ··· 315 Lafortune 





,Deadline: February 26,· 
By M. SHANNON RYAN Saint Mary's Editor 
On any given night in Chicago, them am morn than 15,000 homclnss, bui. only 5,500 shelter beds available. 
Matt McDermott, senior poli­cy analyst f'or the Chicago Coalition for the Homeless, brought this statistic and oth­ers to light Saturday at Saint Mary's College at the llomelessnr.ss and the Single Parent Family Conference. 
The conference, attended by the mayor of South Bend. reli­gious and business leaders, service providers, students and homeless people, sought t.o stimulate discussion and result in action on the housing crisis faced by the homeless popula­tion. 
McDermott and Gail Russell, executive director for Sarah's Circle, a shelter for homeless and transient women in Chicago, lmi a panel discussion on models that work for change. 
Russell said that collabora­tion and networking with other service agencies provides a way to advocate for social jus­tice for the homeless. 
"There needs to be a unified voice among service providers ... to advocate for systemic change," she said. 
Agencies should come togeth­er reguarly, she said, to discuss goals and develop strategies. This would also serve as a way to maximize the methods of helping the homeless. 
Russell also stressed the posi­tive ways in which agencies like the Interfaith Council for the Homeless work for change. Religious organizations can adopt shelters to help provide volunteers apd other services. They can also assist with edu­cation. she said. 
"The religious community can come together ... and try to work as an advocacy voico for the honwlnss and soda! s1H·vic,~ providors to irnprovn snrvir.ns and makn lift-lwttt~r ['or per­sons who am honrnl(~ss," shn said. 
McDermott took tlrn iss1ws to a broador sphnre, looking at homclnssncss in terms of poli­tics. 
In an arua as larg<! as Chicago. Mcl>Prmoll said il is especially important to human­ize the problem. 
"You ncod to work dirncl.lv with the homeless," lw saici. "You need to got them to arlic­ulatnly spoak about their expe­riences in public.... It's much more successful !than speaking about policy!, the common appeal to get sonrnonn to tell you tlrnir story." 
lie said the coalition's newslutter has a profile on a hom11l11ss pnrson (Wery edition. most recently on an 11-ynar­old girl. "11 sounds nm! simple but it rl'minds pnopln what I.his problem is all about, who this problem is all about." 
McDormott said that to advo­cate change, one must be able to relay "good stats on home­lessness." 
Many people are confused or hold out-dated and stereotypi­cal views on homelessness. 
A common thought is that the typical homeless person is male, however the typical homeless person is a single, 20-year-old woman with two children under the age of six. Families are the largest grow­ing population of homeless and the average age of a homeless person is 9, he said. 
Two issues McDermott focused on which could be applied in South Bend am examining the living wage and a campaign to build a mixed­income community. 
For more information on homelessness, contact the National Coalition for llrn Homeless at hllp:llwww. nch. ari. net 

Save +he eV\Vi Jt'onme~V\+, Recycle The ObseJ"VeJ", 
" 


The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Monday, February 22, 1999

Notre Dame, SL Gregory's and the other Iloly Cross schools opened their doors to the homeless of Dhaka. 
The school provided foud and shelter for many flood victims with not only the faculty and staff helping emergency opera­
Despite the low literary rate and severe poverty, competition to get intu the Holy Cross srhools is high. 
Brother Robi Purification, who is studying for his !\!asters of Sricnce and Administration at the Cniversity of Notre !Jame. was l!ead principal of SL Gregory's Primary School out­side of Dhaka. For every [irst grade class of 160 student slots the school received between 600 and 800 applications, he estimated. 
While most of the applicants are from upper-class families, the Iloly Cross also accept stu­dcmts from rural villages and poverty-stricken urban centers. At Notre Dame College, some of these students livfl within the rollegr compound. In some cases. 12 sludents share a room. 
"Not once did I ever he,u one student complain about the lack of social space or pari­"tals." said rather Bill Scetch, rector of Morrissey Hall and Bengal Douts chaplain after vis­iting his counterparts in Bangladesh. 
The Bengal Bouts have raised money for the Holy Cross of Bangladesh for almost 70 years. Most of the money from Bengal Bouts is used for daily operations by many of the schools but recently the Bouts have provided enough money for specific projects. 
Bengal Bouts supplied funds for a new commissary, or din­ing hall, at Notre Dame College. Prior to building the new com­missary, the students ate every meal outside in what resembled a picnic pavilion. The new $21,000 building is just one of the improvements Bengal Bouts money is helping fund. 
"Bengal Bouts is one of the largest benefactors of the Holy Cross in Bangladesh," said Suddes. "We send $41,000 over there and it's like sending $400,000 in terms of what the purchasing power relatively speaking would be here." 
Last summer Bangladesh suf­fered the worst f1oods of the century. During the floods 


JltBASKETBALL 

Call 631-7356. 
Tournament March 3 -6 Madison Square Garden 
tions but the students as well. 
Much of the relief effort was made pussible through NoLre Dame students. Bengal Bouts and residence halls donated money and care packages to the Holy Cross relief effort. 
Last year Notre Dame College and St Gregory's School gradu­ate Amartya Srm recoived the Nobel Peace Prize in econom­ics. llis study of' f'ood distribu­tion throughout tho world may one day help the millions of' impoverished people from Bangladesh. 
Although the Holy Cross schools produce notable schol­ars like Sen, some or the: mis­sionary schools are designed for less fortunate children. l\:otre Damc Collegn runs a pro­gram wlwre children can attend trade classes at night and receive food while they attend. 
This is a rare educational opportunity that many uf' the poorest Bengalis would never dream or without the help of the lloly Cross. In most cases these children, as young as seven vears old, must work during the day to survive. 
The trade school program offers them a chance for educa­tion and a free meal each day. 
The Holy Cross' mission to educate is changing lives from Dhaka to South Bend. With continued help, the missions in Bangladesh will_ be able to help more people each year. 
"It is the most 'other' place I have ever been," said Seetch, who has also traveled to Africa and China. "There are so many people, so much coming and going, it is hard to imagine [Bangladesh] without actually going there." 
Most Americans do not real­ize the difference between poverty in the U.S. and poverty in third-world nations. To understand this poverty, Purification has suggested Notre Dame students should "go and see Bangladesh. If they see something, they feel it and only then can they understand the suffering," he said. 

dents through the Encuentro and give them support. program, which works to bring LONI participant and Saint


LONI 

together Latina women from all Mary's sophomore Becky continued from page 1 corners of the nation during the Fortunak felt welcomed by the 
summer, way menturs hosted LONI stu­with administrators, attend Encuentro means "to gather, dents for dinner and contacted classes with their host and par­find oneself, to encounter" in them outside of class to offer ticipate in workshops un the col­Spanish. Participants in the_ pro­advice and support 
lege admission and finanrial aid processes. 
Forty students from Indiana are chosen each year to partic­ipate in the Leadership and Community Development Academy. The ar.ademy is a one-week camp, designed to help females in high school devrlop thoir leadership skills and utilize them in confronting issues in their own communities. 
Thompson b<:lirves the Leadership and Community Development Ar.ademy teaches students "how to put ideas into action, become critical thinkers and have confidence in their own thoughts and actions." 
Admission to the program is competitive with 40 Indiana high school students accepted and given full scholarship for thfl cost ol' the week-long pro­
gram. Another initiative of the LONI program is to serve Latina stu-
At just 99¢, this deal's gonna make your mouth water. 
(Not to mention your eyes.) 
.. 



£,.,t 

gram are encouraged to usr, the time they arc at Saint Mary's to find themselves academically, spiritually and culturally. 
The intense two-week pro­gram involves participal.ion in chemistry, computer science, Latina literature and art classes, as well as numerous evening rultural workshops. 
In addition to the workshops, on-campus support is offered to the young women who meet thn LONI qualifications and are accepted to Saint Mary's. 
Accepted students are eligible for a need-based grant of up to $5,500 per academic year and are able to receive services such as peer tutoring and leadership workshops at no additional cost. 
During a student's time at Saint Mary's, she has thr, oppor­tunity to meet regularly with a mentor from the faculty or administration who seeks to guide students through decisions 
"For me, the best part of the program is having regular meet­ings with my mentor group," Fortunak said. "It was great to have a support group during those first few weeks of college and now we still me8t for lunch once a week." 
Once a student is ready to begin considering post-graduatn plans, LONI seeks to provide a nrnans for lrnr to become aware of opportunities in Indiana. It engages students in meetings with local community leaders and professionals, offers career exploration workshops and finds summer internships in their local communities. 
Drawing on the strong support from the Saint Mary's Alumnae Network, LONI assists students in securing a job in Indiana with the hopes they will continue to use leadership skills developed through LONI to benefit the state. 

Try the delicious new Cheese 'n Onion Melt Burger, right now only 99¢. 
Cry out for the tasty new Cheese 'n Onion Melt Burger on the 991f. Great Tastes Menu at Burger Kings restaurants. It's a juicy flame-broiled burger smothered with sauteed onions and melted cheese, right now Just 991f.. That's right,just 99¢. It's a deal so good, it may bung tears to your eyes. But don't worry, you can always just say it's the onions. 
Limited time only. Pnce and participation may vary. 
The Huddle -LaFortune Student Center 
~ 
BURGER 

KING 

It just tastes better:
www.burgerking.com 

0 1999 Burger King Corporation. Burg-er King Corporation ii the uc.luaive licenaee ofthe .. It just taates better" trademark and the registered Burger Ki.ng and Bw,. Halve., logo trademarlc.s. 

Monday, February 22, 1999 
¦ WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Communist party calls for Yeltsin 's impeachment 
MOSCOW 

(;pnnacly Zyuganov. tlw llladnr ol' tlw Hussian Communist Party, said Sunday that lw would urgn parlianwnt to adopt a molion l11 i111pPaeh l'rnsidPnt Boris Ytdlsin. :\ddrPssing a rally marking DnfondPr of tho Fatlwrland Day, Zyuganov said an impnach­nwnt commission in thP lowPr housn of' par­lianH'lll had rollPrtPd <•nough Pvidcnr,e to rnnf'irm "Y<dtsin's criminal activity." llw C:0111111unists havn lrnnn at odds with Y1'1tsin throughout his Wnurn. Zyuganov has nw1•ntly lrnatml up his rlwtoril:, particularly al'l.1,r rnrnors l'lllt•rgPd that Y11ltsin 11nndnd mndiral lwlp nnrlit>r I.his month whnn Ill' lrnvl'l<•d lo .lorclan f'or King llussnin's 1'111rnral. "Now af'tnr scvnn y1•ars of' dnmocratic mind gan11•s. <'\'Pl'y111w l'Paliz1•s that an incompe­tPnt p<·rson is in pow<•r who is unab!I· to be rPsponsihl<• for his words and actions," Zyuga1H1v told tlw rrowd ol' I 0,000 gatlwnid to mark tlw military holiday. 
New speaker promises to work with Democrats 
WASIJINGTON 

Hnp. l)(•nnis I lastert. thn tll'W I louse speak­<'r. promises a no-nons,rnse, hardworking CongrPss wlwn• llepublicans will try lo W()rk with llPllHHTats. 1.vl'n on such normally par­tisan issues as incn\asing tlrn minimum wagP. "Tlw Arnnrkan pnnpln want Congress lo work, and they don't want it to work Pxl'lusivdy on a Hepuhlican way or exclu­sivnly on a l>mnocratic way," Hastert (H-111.) said on "Fox News Sunday." "There's good ideas that come up on both sides of the aislr." llast11rt and other GOP lnadllrs meet l'rnsid1\nt Clinton on Tuesday. both sidos try­ing to show they can lay aside partisan dif­fen\nnis and work for the country's good. 
Student jailed for telegram 
CAIHO, Egypt 

A 1111iv<irsity studnnt angry over a land dis­pute !'aces two years in jail for trying to send l•:gypt's prPsidnnt a telegram claiming there is no justic,~ und<'r his rngimn. ".luslic1• is lost," 27-ynar-old MohammPd T<•yl'our wrotn in tlrn Jan. 22 telegram. "S1,n1rity has bm'n lost in your ura. Mubarak. No Lo injusticn, no lo l,wk of s11eurity, no to Muharnk." Tlw tdngram was 11(\Ver s1int by tlrn opnralor in tlrn Niln Dnlta town of' Dnmanhour who, liknly !'Paring rnprisals himsPII'. rontartPd polir.n instnad. l'olicP rhargPd T<·yfour with lilwl and insulting tlw 
pn•sidPnt, which rnn carry up to two ynars in prison. Tlw Wlngram was printPd Sunday in tlw w1·Pkly opposition Al-Arabi nnwspapN. 

S&P 500: Composite 
IB<J.19 Volume: 
t l.<J t 892,000,000

9339.95 
VOLUME LEADERS 

SCWIIU  TJCIU  \  £11195  I CHN91  PIJSI  
Dl!.:l.l.,  (ltHJ•UTF.f•  IlELI,  3 . ?4  ·l.9400  RO. 015  
MIC1,tf1•,1JF'l  (·11MI'  MSF'T  •l.H  • l. 9400  141, 69  
M<.'E w<1RLIX.'OM lN 1<.Ht\U1N •:OM lNC  WCOM AM:7.N  1'1, :20 • lJ.flJ  • 1. 81 !,O .. 1;i. lfl00  R4, 19 101 ""  
IN'T'P.:L  COPP  IN'l"t'  -o. or,  -0, 06SO  12R. 06  
P INNArl,I::  HLDGS  RlG'i  •O  "  i0,0600  14.06  
TOTAL kF.NAL CAR IIEl,LSOUT fl CORP  TRL BLS  •1 .lO l .23  tO ,6300 -o. '650  9. 18 45-. ll  
AMF!.: WNLINE 1· JSl'O SVSTlH!I.  AOL csco  •2. fi9' t0,97  ·• .5000 t0,9l4.S  160.25 97. 12  

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
¦ BALKAN PEACE TALKS 

AFP Pholo An ethnic Albanian man checks his surroundings in Studencane, 80 kilometers southwest of Kosovo's capital, Pristina. U.S. Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, who is at peace talks in France, does not believe that peace can occur in Kosovo unless NATO troops intervene. 

Negotiations reach impasse in France 

ASSOCIATED PRESS 
HAMBOUILLET, France 
Secretary of State Madeleine Albright. making scant headway toward a Kosovo peace settlement, said Sunday that ii' neither Serbs nor ethnic Albanians accept the six-nation plan, NATO cannot carry through on its throat to attack Serb targets. 
With a new deadline set for Tuesday, Serb n<1gotiators "are not engaging at all" over the critical ques­tion of whether NATO peacekeepers would enforce the settlement. while the Kosovar Albanians must still be persuaded to sign on fully with the plan to give them greater autonomy in the Serb province, Albright said. 
"They are dealing, and I think we have to appreciatP this, with decisions that affect their livr,s," Albright said. "It is a question of war and peace for them. In think we need to understand tlrn difficulty of tlrn derisions that they are making." 
Albright will return to this small town southwest of Paris on Monday 

for more talks with the ethnic Albanians, a senior U.S. official told The Associated Press. 
Albright, talking to reporters, declined to explain what was holding up Albanian approval. ln fact, she said, U.S. officials thought the Albanians had given her a green light on Saturday. 
But other U.S. officials said the renewed negotiations focused on the Albanians' quest for independence after the plan's interim three-year period, and the U.S. refusal to endorse independence. And Albright, ruling out any independence referendum in the agreement, said she was looking for a way "the voice of the people" could be expressed in Kosovo. 
But "if this fails because both parties say no, there will not he bombing of Serbia and we will try to figure out ways of' trying to deal with both sides," she said. 
However, Albright said that if the Albanians give their total endorsn­ment to the complex plan -which would give the majority Albanians sig­nifkant autonomy but stop short of independence for Kosovo -and if the Serbs keep holding out, tlinn I.ho Serbs would be attacked. 
"The Serbian side is not coopnralivn. The Serbian side believes that it can have half the deal, which is to talk about the political part of Lim docu­ment. ... There is no dllal and no cooperation if they arr. not willing to engage in what is a basic aspect of' the agreement," she said, roforring to the NATO peacekeepnrs. 
Albright's spokesman, .James P. Rubin, said she left U.S. Ambassador Christopher II ill -the U.S. spncial envoy to the talks -to continue nngo­tiatiug with the Albanian rcpresnnta­tives. 
And British Foreign Sncnitary llobin Cook also trind to put pressurn on tlw ethnic Albanians to accept tlrn agrn<i­m<mt. 
"If you don't sign up to these texts, it is Pxtremely difficult to snP how NATO could then take action against Belgrade," lw said told the British Broadcasting Corp. 
¦ IRAQ 


Kurds protest Ocalan capture 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
SUJAIMANIYA 
About 4,000 Iraqi Kurds marched to the United Nations office in north­ern lrnq Sunday to protest the arrest of Kurdish rebel loadnr Abdullah 
Ocalan.  1-"I~ ,.,,...,"i•JCII  
Protests wr.re also  
held Sunday in Iran  • "Government  
and Germany.  officials defend  
In  Sulaimaniya,  arrestof  
hundreds oJ' soldiers  Kurdish leader"  
armed with automat­ p. 9  
ic rifles stopped pros  . .  

testers about 250 yards from the U.N. building. The demonstrators chanted slogans in support of Ocalan, who was ta.ken last week from the Greek Embassy in Nairobi, Kenya, by Turkish agents. 
"Down, down U .S.A ,!' the demon~ 

strators chanted. Thn circumstances of Ocalan's arrest have fueled sp(~cu­lation that Turkey obtained help from the United States and Israel in tracking down Ocahu1. 
After about two hours, tho protest­ers marched to the Turkish consulate where, according to unconfirnrnd reports, guards fired guns into the air to scare the crowd. There were no reports of injuries. About 3.2 million Kurds live In northern Iraq. 
Similar protests have been staged throughout Europe and in countries with large Kurdish populations, including Iran. · 
AJJout 1,000 Iranian Kurds gath­ered Sunday outside the U.N. ofllce in Tehran, chanting anti-Turkish slo­gans. They carried portraits of Ocalan or placards w.ith his nickname, "Apo." The demonstrati-0n ended 
peacerully. 
Smaller demonstrations wnrn held in several other Iranian cities, resi­dents and Kurdish sources said. SomP fi.5 million lraninns are Kurds. 
In westnrn Berlin, five poople woro arrested Sunday as police broke up n µro-Ocalan di,monstralion by 1!'iO leftists. No one was injured. Police spokeswoman Beate Schmidt said Kurds did not participate in the demonstration. 
In the bloodiest incidnnt since Ocalan's arrest, three Kurds who trind to storm tho Israeli consulate in Berlin last Wednesday wern fatally shot by security guards. Kurdish leaders in Berlin said a funeral march would be hnld for them Wednesday. 
Berlin officials had issued a wuek­end ban on all large gatherings, l'ea.r• ful ofmore violence. 
-......._ --...... --

Koffee 
continued from page I 
and who yuu are ... I came to such a freedom," said senior Sherrecia Jones in her poem "The Essence of Blackness." 
"For how many days in so many ways must we be told it is okay to bf> comfortable in this skin''" she said. 
One highlight of the evening came wlrnn assistant to the pres­ident Chandra .Johnson spoke about her father. the renowned singer Willie Thomas Johnson. He was a gospel singer and co­founder of the Golden Gate Quartette ~ the first African­American group to perform at a Presidential inaugural ball. The older Johnson also appeared in singing roles in several movies before retiring to spend more time with his children. 
"He took the Negro spiritual and made it secular," Johnson said of hfff father. "Ile made it acceptable in places outside the black church." 
Another highlighl was junior Ayana Fakhir's powerful oration of "Dark Testament," an essay by Pauli Murray about Americu's slave history and its lingering effects in today's soci­ety. She said the selection held a certain appeal for her. 

"I did a lot of research, and this was the only piece that envoked some kind of spirit," she said. "It moved me." 
Johnson said Blak Koffee House gives Notre Dame's African-American community a chance to listen to itself, and that that opportunity is a very important one. 
"Blak Koffee House is pivotal to the experience of black stu­dents on this campus," Johnson said. "It is essential for their development to hear each other speak." 
.Johnson said she enjoyed Friday's event, with its focus on the spoken word instead of the usual musical events. The greater amount of spetich demonstrated a deeper exprcs· sion of students' sentiments, she said. 
"I loved tonight." said Johnson. "There was more ora­tion, and when there's oration, that means the students arc speaking from their hearL'i." 
At the event, Otis llill and Cassandra Melton were named recipients of' the Thurgood Marshall Scholarships, which are given to a male and female African-American freshman for demonstrated leadership in the Notre Dame community through involvement in service activities. 
The evening was sponsored by Office of Multicultural Student Affairs and the Black Cultural Arts Festival and is in its sixth year. It has been held on Junior Parnnts' We1~kend ead1 year since 1993. 



Shimmering with suspense and emotional intensity, Message in a Bottle takes readers on a hunt for the truth about a man and his memories, and about both the heart-breaking fragility and enormous strength of love. For those who cherished The Notebook and readers waiting to discover the magic of Nicholas Sparks' storytelling, here is his new, achingly lovely novel of happenstance, desire, and the choices that matter the most ... 
C)VARNER BOOKS 
\, 


page6  The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS  Monday, February 22, 1999  

:'vlonday, February 22, 1999 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Saint Mary's acknowledges National Eating Disorders Awareness Week 
February 22-26, 1999 

"Don't weigh your self-esteem, It's what's Inside that counts." 
Monday 
Noon• I p.m. Haggar Parlor--Bring your lunch "How Healthy are You> Food and You!" Cindy Tansek-Carroll, M.S., R.D. 
Tuesday Noon-I p.111., Noble Family Dining H~ll, North WedgeRoQm "Mirror, Mirror on rhe Wall: Learning to Like the Person YouSee!" Valerie Staples, M.S.W., L.C.S.W. Memorial Hospital, H.O.P.E. Program 
9:30 p.m.-10:30 p.m., Regina Chapel Mass will he held in remembrance of those whose lives 
have been impacted by issues surrounding food and body image. Fr. Joe Ross, C.S.C 

Wednesday 
Noon -1:30 p.m. and 4-5 p.m., Noble Family Dining Hall Eating Disorder and Body Image information tables 
Thursday 
11-1 p.m. an<l 3-4:30 p.m. Counseling and Career Development ('.,enccr, J66 Le M.i.ns Hall Free and confidential eating disorder screenings. No appointment necessary. 







HURRY... IT'S NOT TOO LATE!! 
BIOSPHERE 2: SEMESTER "ABROAD" Fall 1999 & Spring 2000 Slots Still Available 


Officials put pressure on sweepstakes gimmicks 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Frustrated with consumnr complaints and filing costly lawsuils against mail-in sweepstakes. attorneys gener­al from nine states and repre­sentatives from 16 otlrnrs are meeting to discuss ways to halt deceptive gimmicks. 
They hope further agree­ments with the industry and new laws will help. 
"Right now the only tool we have to deal with deception and fraud in the sweepstakes industry is to file a lawsuit, and that's a very inefficient way of dealing with the prob­lem," said Indiana Attorney General .Jeff Modisett. 
Indiana has lawsuits pending against American Family Publishers and Publishers Clearing House, two of the giants in the industry. claiming they use deceptive mailings to trick peopl11 into purchasing magazines and other products in hopes it will help them win. 
Both companies say they promote their disclaim<irs prominently and have paid out millions of dollars to winners. including many who didn't purchase a thing. 
0thr,r states have filed simi­lar lawsuits again8t sw1rnp­stakcs companies and scttln­mcnts have bcrnn reached in some cases. 
Pat Raines, of' Willard, Mo., is coming to Indianapolis for the meeting starting 
Wednesday to Hhare !Im story of her father Neil llancock. who died in April at 80. Arter taking control of his finances in 1997, Raines discovered he had written dozens of checks totalling $102,000 to contest promoters over a four-year period. 
She begged him to stop send­ing money. 
"Of cours,1 he wasn't about to because hn thought Im was in the final stages of' winning $12 million or $:~!i million or whatever," Haines said. "Tlrny say they are legally within tlrn limits. that you're a winnl'r only if your number is select­ed, in small print. But they do a lot of things I think are unfair and deceptive and to mp, it's a crime, because they arc targeting the eldnrly." 
Federal law prohibits com­panins from requiring a pur­chase or charging a foe to peo­ple who enter sweepstakes. People who don't buy maga­zine subscriptions, f'or exam­ple, must have tlrn same chance of winning a prize as people make a purchas11. 
Under a bill filed in thn Senate earlier this month. sweepstakes that use dPcep­tion to lure peoplP into buying products could lrn l'irmd up to $2 million. 
Other attorrwys gnnnral planning to attend are f'rorn Oklahoma, Florida. Mississippi. Missouri, New Mexico. Ohio, l'nnnsylvania and Wisconsin. 






What's happening on campus? Got news? Call 1-5323, or stop by the basement of SDH. 
Notre Dame/ St. Mary's College 
Right to Life Club 
General Meeting 
Monday, February 22, 1999 
Notre Dame Room, Second Floor, LaFortune 9:30 pm 
Elections 

will be held. Please call the office with any questions: 1-9006 
Irish Fighting for Life 
, I 
___,__ 

page 8 Monday, February 22, 1999 

Inmates choose gas 

chamber in protest Ji th~· lnnst ··painful 
es \lfy~m.r tenure?" 
Two convicted killers hope for a new ruling 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX 
Given thP option of a fatal but painless injection, convict­ed killers Karl and Walter LaGrand have chosen slower, more agonizing deaths in a cloud of cyanide fumes. 
It's a 1·alculated move desigrrnd to km1p the brothers from becoming the first Cerman citizens to bf' execut­ed in the United States. Karl LaGrand is schr,duled to dir, Wednesday, Walter on 1'.farch 
~­
Tim LaGrands and their attorneys are gambling that an appeals court will buy thPir argument that lethal gas is cruel and unusual punishment 
and tlwrefore unconstitu­tional. The !Jroth­
Prs. con-ber suffered demned to die "excruciating
'AGAS CHAMBER EXE­
for killing a pain for bank manager CUTION VIOLATES 
between 15 in 1982, also 
EVOLVING STANDARDS OF seconds and 
hope U.S. offi­several min­

HUMAN DECENCY AND HAS
cials will bow utes" and that to internation­NO PLACE IN A CIVILIZED a gas chamber 
Tucson, shortly after it opened Jan. 7, 1982. Karl, armed with a toy pistol, ordered bank manager Ken Hartsock, 63, to open the vault 
Hartsock, however, knew only half of the combination. The brothers tied up Hartsock, beat him and stabbed him 24 times with a letter opr,ncr. A clerk was also stabbed but survived. 
Arizona prisoners sentenced to death for crimes committPd before November 1992 have the option of choosing between lethal injection or lethal gas. All 13 inmates exe­cuted under that provision have chosen injection. 
Karl LaGrand dedined to be interviewed. His dnfense hopes to stave off execution by convincing the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco that the gas cham­brr is barbaric. 
A panel of the appellate court in 1994 agreed with a lower court ruling that con­cluded prisoners executed in 
the gas cham­
al pressure 
SOCIETY.'
and commute their sen­tences to life in prison. Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder and other German leaders have asked President Clinton, Attorney General Janet Reno, Secretary of State Madeleine Albright and Arizona Gov. Jane Hull to intervene. 
"I want to do everything I can that can save a life, even in such a diflicult case," said Schroeder, who opposes the death penalty for even the most serious crimes. 
Germany, which has no death penalty, has also lodged an appeal with the World Court on the brothers' behalf. 
lt has also appealed to Arizona to spare the lives of two other German brothers on death row. Rudi and Michael Apelt were convicted of killing Michael's U.S.-born wife in 1988 in hopes of cashing in on a $400,000 life insurance poli­cy. 
A fifth German citizen is on death row in Florida. In all, 72 foreign nationals are awaiting execution in the t.:nited States, according to Amnesty [nternationaL 
The pending LaGrand exe­cutions have been front-page news in Germany, whnre thr, brothers were born. Their mother, Emma, married an American serviceman who adopted the boys and their sister and moved the family to the United States in 1967. 
Karl, 35, and Walter, 36, werr in trouble with the law as children. Karl was arrested for shoplifl.ing at 9, and the boys set a fire that causr,d $20,000 damage to a golf course while the family lived at a military post in Texas. 
In 1981, the LaGrands robbed three Tucson super­markets in six days. They were free on their own recog­nizance when they tried to hold up the Valley National Bank in Marana, north of execution vio­
lates "evolving 
standards of 
1994 APPELLATE hUJllan decen­cy and has no COURT RULING place in a civi­
lized society." 
Fourteen states appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court, which ruled that when the 
inmate is given a choice of execution, lethal gas d(d not constitute cruel and unusual punishment. The high court, however, instructed the lower courts to examine the issue 
further. 
The argument that the gas chamber is unconstitutional when an inmate has an alter­native, such as lethal injec­tion, "would be a hard one to win in today's courts," said Richard Dieter, executive director of the nonprofit Death Penalty Information Center in 
Washington. 
Corrections officials say the LaGrands' selection of the gas chamber over injection is irre­
versible. 
The LaGrands are also con­tending their death sentences should be overturned because they were denied their right under international law to consult with the German con­sulate following arrests. State officials say the claim is invalid because the brothers failed to assert it in state 
court. 
John foarde, an attorney specializing in consular affairs for the U.S. State Department, said there are no cases where a criminal conviction was sf't aside because of a breach of 
the treaty. 
President Clinton is power­less to stop the execution because this is a state case, said Paul McMurdie, chid counsel for criminal appeals in the Arizona Attorney 
G(meral's Office. 
Mrs. Hull cannot commute the brothers' death sentences without a recommendation 
from the State Board of 
Executive Clemency, which will consider Karl LaGrand's case Tuesday. 
a.hi said. he had no ti~~tio~ of attacking Mrs. 'tjton o~er tlw impeachment ····•.· fi1:1t'hui!bandor c1;ccm1h:igher
9fbehrg a carpetbagger who ve elver · doesn't live in New York. 
y\piijg." . But; when asked on ABC identhar:i,:said .,(l.bQut the first lady's stato­oy,ld m~k!" a ments last year that .she :1.ntfhe would l'~v9red an independent <r 3;te~Isfoq.,she :Palestipian state, he noted that he. agreed with the officialaft,lttist tf rll~ •is .. White House position that the ·..••i::i.Pt.rie ty· Jot $tatus or Palestinian-controlled ?tl:19~ds-b8:rred fands,ar.e to be. negotiated.itic ·••.·• . House ... '.'Mrs. Clinton is out thetc much 
ls tt;.Uke :mote heavily favoring the ·gaiiydoflUinois, .Palecstinians," he said. err a$ a person Koch said most American 
h,t1u,iJ~ Chicago •Jews are for a Palestinian no~s4re \/l;h:y !J,ily-.state.. "For Giuliani to raise~Jihois. wants to thatshows youhowfow a blow Otte in Ne,w York ,; ho's willing to strike," the for­
········ ····· ·· ·· ·. · ;rnermayor said. 

' '· · <k ~e.g. · One Democrat who ublicnn, ~;,;:pressed enthusiasm for Mrs. .aiJl.that ,:{lltr!ton's. candidacy was New .8.iit9.r.thi1 YMtHep. Nita Lowey, whosothl'l' kind of own decision on whether to ·•· dtymbJe i:ibewants to ~nter the senatorial race has ;olt' packjnto;" she said . boon put on hold as a result of . QitiliAn.i "is goin'g to the first lady's possible entry. xtte.m¢Jyformidahle ''IUllary Clinton is in a very 
•);in(iwiffhi:)at her:" special class or her own," she Ferrar(}, in Time, said on CNN and Fox. she twice Jost D'Amato, who lost his New ew YotlcSenate York Senate seat last · · ···· · .. ·· ·· · thatit November after a nasty cam­
, 'l'he paign against Democratic Rep. live Charles Sch11mer, said hey \i:tepublicans aren't afraid of a 
QHnton candidacy and. are ;.actuaUy relishing the battle .." 
Iri addition to Giuliani, he said, New York moderate hep!); Jack Quinn and Rick Lazio would be strong con­tenders. Asked on Fox if he would.· consider running, t>'Alnalo said jt was "very 
J~Il\ptirlg." He said it would be /l, taq~ thatthose who enjoy /politics ''kind ofsalivate over." 

Monday, February 22, 1999 The Observer • NEWS page 9 



NASA delays space station 
Associ•tcd Presg 
CAPE CANAVEHAL, Fla. 

Two months aftrr launch­ing the foundat.io11 of its new spaco station, NASA isn't sum how mnny moro !lights -or how many more years -will hn nPMdMJ to finish th1J job. 
As usual. NASA's biggflst partrwr is lo bla1rn1. 
Th<' Hussian Spacn Agency has fallen behind ynt again 011 its main contribution. a C(lll lrol rnnduhi tha.l ·s ITINlll l lo clouhle as thr t:rrw quar­ters. The upshot is morr di•lays and rising costs for tlrn int11rnntional spacr station. 
Except for a supply trip by shutlln Discovery this May. all assembly missions arP on hold until thn nussians launch the control module, t.lrn crucial third pincn or tho spacu station. 
"It will launch. It's just a matter of' wlwn." says Frunk Culbertson, NASA's deputy program manager for space stat.ion operations. 
Hussia's so-called sorvicc 
module should have soared in April 1998. than in Dticemb1u 1998, then in April 1999, then in July 1999. Now an engirworing evcduation by NASA shows that despite $60 million in U.S. assistam:e, the 43-f'oot compartmflnt won't bo r<'ltdy to rty bof'orn September. 
And it may not be ready beforn Novomb!ir. 
Hussia's economic crisis is toblame for the l 1./2-year holdup -LhB Hussian gov­ernment simply is not provirl­ing enough money although cnrnputer sof'twanl problorns havn omorgod in recent months. 
Hussian sp,ice officials expect to more or loss com­plete the service module next month and ship it from Moscow to tho launch slto in Kazakstan. Engineors typical­ly need 4 1/2 months to eight months at tho launch site, howover, to prnparn a space station component for flight, says Culbertson. 
Eight months of work would bump the launch ofthe 
service module to November. And that would bump ovtiry­thing else, including the arrival of' the first permanent crew, penr.iled in for early next year. 
Culbertson says that while some Russian space officials are embarrassed about the situation, ''most of them are fairly pragmatic -they've dealt with this before,'' 
"They know the schedule pressure that we are under from Congress and the ne!'ld to keep things moving because it costs money when you delay." he says. "But they also arc not going to ship it before it's ready, They've been very clear about that," 
That's 'about the only clear message lately from Russia. 
When NASA revealed last month that the service mod­uln would fly no earlier than September, two months later than promised, the Russian Space Agency's PR office promptly issuod a denial. 
Days passed bofor.e Russian officials publicly acknowl­edged the delay. 

¦ TURKEY 
Government officials defend arrest of Kurdish leader 
affront to Turkish justice," l'rinrn Minister Bulent Ecevit told a rwws conforence on Sunday, six days after Turkish commandos captured Ocalan in Nairobi, Kenya. Ile is now on an isolatod Turkish island prison where he remains in solitary conf'inement. under inturrogation but not yet under formal arrest. 
Even befoi-e a trial date has boon set and tlrn nature of tho procemlings agreed upon, tlrn case is pitting Turkey against 


Associated Press 
ANKAHA 

Till' Turkish prinw minister's manner was mild. but his mes­sage was unmistakable: Back 
off. 
Now that Turkey has rnbel warlord Abd ull,.tl1 Ocalan behind hars, it is telling ttw W!\St in no uncnrtain terms it wants no advice from anyone on how to conduct his trial. 
"WP would consider such altt~mpts an unacceptable 
I 9 I) 9 
Pulliain Journalistn Fellowships 

Western critics who cite its shaky human rights record and question whether the much­reviled Ocalan will be dealt with fairly. 
At tho hourlong question­and-answer session held by the prime minister and his foreign minister, Ismail Cem, Turkey's prickly brand of nationalistic pride was on ample display. So, too, was an increasingly strident tone at the first brief­ing sper.ifically for foreign reporters since Ocalan's cap· 
Graduating college seniors are invited to apply for the 26th annual Pulliam Journalism Fellowships. We will grant IO-week summer intern­ships to .20 journalism or lihcral mts majors in the August 1998-June 1999 graduating classes. 
Pn:vious internship or part-time experience at a newspaper is desired, or other demonstration of writing and reprnting ability. Those who go 1hrough the Fellowships often find new professional opp01tunities open­
mg up at other newspapers during and after the program. Winners will receive a $5,250 stipend and will work at either The lndimwpolis Star and The lndimwpolis News or The Ari:01u1 Re1mblic. Opportunities for onlinc traininu are available along with reportin1r experience at our ma1·or
C) , ""' t; . 
mclropnlitan daily newspapers. 
\11 l·ntric., must be postmarked by March I, 1999. Successful appli­L·;i11h \\ ill be notified on or before April I and will be asked to respond 1111mL·diately with a letter of intent, at which time one-third of the cash grant will he mailed to the Fellow. 
To request an application packet. visit our \\'ch -.ilL'. c 1n:1il w, or write: 


Web site: www.stamews.com/pjf E-mail: pulliam<!!1~tamcws.rnm 


RussL·ll B. Pulliam Pulliam l<·llowships Director The Indianapolis News P.O. Box 145 
Indianapolis, IN 4fl206-0145 

¦ BAHRAIN 
Opposition leader faces bombing trial 
Associated Press 
MANAMA 

Bahrain's leading Shiitn Muslim opposition leader was put on trial behind closed doors Sunday, thrne years after he was detained on chargns of spying and inciting unrest against tho ruling fami­ly. 
Sheik Abd11I-Arnerr al­Jamri, 62, was detained in January I996 after he ignored government warnings and stepped up a campaign l'or political reforms. Bahraini laws allow dettmtion for up lo three years without trial. • 
Al-Jamri is being tried by the State Socurity Court, which was sut up in March 1996 to deal solely with the Shiite unrest. A panel of three judges is presiding over the trial being held in .Jaw. 20 miles south of tile capital, Manama. 
At least 40 people have boen killed in bombings and arson attacks blamed on Shiitns, nrnmh1irs of Urn second-larg!1st sect ol' Islam. They arP llw majority among 1iahrai11's 400,000 cit.izens. 
Bahrain's ruling family belongs to the mainslrl'am Sunni soct, tlrn biggest single sect in Islam. 
Only Al-.Jamri's wif'n, Zahra Youssnf Attiyah, 55, and their four sons were allowed to attend the trial hosides a defonse attornny, Ahdul­Shaheod Khalal'. 
A goverr11nC\1Jt official said t!rn trial was adjour1rnd al'tPr a 45-minute session to give Llw defense timn to prnparn its casn and l.o provide 1ww docu­ments. It was not known when the trial will resume. 
Al-Jam ri was the most promi1wnt voice calling l'or a return of Bahrain's electod parliamnnt, a release o/' politi­cal prisoners and morn free­dom of speech. 

turc. 
130th men stopped just short of opP.nly gloating over violent protests by expatriate Kurds that CTupted across Europe within hours of Ocalan's arrest, including many stag,~d on tlrn soil of countries that have expressed sympathy for the Kurds' struggle for autono­my. 
"There is a Turkish expres­sion, 'Long live the snake that doesn't bite me.' The attitude of some governments in Europe could well be described with that expression," Ec1wit said. "Now that they have been slightly bitten by the snakfl, they may better realize what we have been suffering for many years." 
Tho 73-year-old prime minis­ter, a published poet noted for his ovocative translations of Sanskrit vflrse, said autonomy for the Kurds is out of tho question -and so is talking to Ocalan's Kurdistan Workers Party, or PKK. which has waged a 15-year military struggle for autonomy. 
"A dialogue need not be formed with minority groups who want to partition Turkey," Ecevit declared. 
The Ocalan case is drawing international attention to Turkey's treatment of its 12 millinn Kurds, concentrated in the desolate mountains of thn southeast. The area is gov­nrnfld under barsh civil restric­tions akin to martial law. 
Speaking the Kurdish lan­guage, related to Iran's Farsi, was illegal even in unofficial settings between 1983 and 1991. Teaching and broadcast­ing it am still against th(• law. 
At his news conl'crencc, Ecevit advanced a vinw com­monly held in Turkoy, that supporting autonomy or minority rights for the Kurds amounts to racism, bncausu Kurds benefit by full assimila­tion into Turkish society. 
"In contrast to the racist her­itage and tendencies of Cl!l'tain European nations, wn have had no concept of racial differ­entiation," ho said. 
Such combativnnnss on Turkey's part is likely to int1n1­sify as the trial unfolds, partic­ularly if it is held in state secu­rity courts, which include mili­tary judgos. With national r.lec­tions less than two months away, tho country's leaders will likely stick to thn political­ly popular line that the trial is Turkey's businoss and no onr. else's. 
All this will be to tho detri­ment of Turkey's international image, some analysts say. 
"This is not a normal trial; it's an international 11vnnt," said Ilusoyin Bagci, an interna­tional rnlations scholar at Middle East Tochnical University in Ankara. Waving off outsiders' concPrns about the procnedings, lw predicted, will worsnn rnlations with Europe. 

VIEWPOINT 

¦ CAPITOL COMMENTS 
Sick and Tired of Well, Everything 
Admittedly, I am a political junky, liv­ing in Washington and having worked for eighteen years at the U.S. House of Hepresentatives. Now that the impeach­ment fiasco has ended, I have had to join my local chapter of PJA (Political Junkies Anonymous). Most Americans are sick and tired of partisan politics, the impeachment process, Monica, Ken. Henry and the thirteen dwarfs who 
Gary Caruso 


managed the House case in the Senate. While these Americans are relieved to finally move on, I am going through sub­stantial withdrawal. 
1am dreading what now follows the impeachment process ... a return to 1999 events. Last week, "Nightline" actually featured such mundane topics as our envjronment and religion in the Middle East. 1fear a return to the events of the pre-impeachment days. Before the impeachment in late 1998, I was fed up with just about everything deemed routine. Everything had to be born again, new or neo. It got to the point that when I heard the term "new millen­nium" mentioned. I was about to scream. To me, it seemed that every day was characterized with another new age dude operating some new paradigm in our new world order which was opposed to neo-Nazis. 
Religious "leaders" like Jerry Falwell who keep charactPrizing themselves as "Christian" in a wav that discards the rest of us pseudo-Christians reminds me or the Heagan days when, according to Hepublicans, they were the only true patriots in this country. Jesuit turned conservative television political host, John McLaughlin, recently character­ized my style of Catholicism as "Cafeteria." According to McLaughlin, r am a "Cafeteria Catholic" because I take bits and pieces of the Church's teachings only to suit myself. 
Speaking of taking bits and pieces from the serving line, the Catholic acad­emic world of university and college presidents, including Notre Dame's Fr. Malloy, are balking at the Vatican's pro­posal to place local bishops in control of Catholic institutions. Many, including me, are sick and tired of Catholic administrators using Catholicism as an excuse to enforce their beliefs but then to reject the Church's desire to unify Catholic higher education. We are either all Catholic or we are not. We have no middle ground. 
Let's try an exercise in Logic 101. According to the education presidents, the Church definitely would enforce the prevention of coed housing or the pre­vention of nondiscrimination clauses in all Catholic institutions. Then the Church would force these same Catholic institutions to submit total control to the Vatican which would make these institu­tions less secular. Be Catholic on the one hand and then be Catholic on the other hand. Somehow these two thoughts seem to make sense to "true" Catholics. Where is their beef? Must be financial. 
Notre Dame students should be sick and tired of the men's basketball team missing "March Madness." They, like me, must hate the Michigan and USC fights songs. Students also must surely be exhausted from the yearly campus debate over the discrimination ... I mean "nondiscrimination" clause debate at the University. I personally am tired of getting shut out of tickets for football games, but then again, I don't con­tribute as much as I once did in my youth ... when I too was "new." Another financial thing. 

I am sick of every sporting event in the world beginning with a man in a tuxedo who asks me if l am ready to rumble. I am not, and have never been! As far as the content of commercials during sports event time-outs, I am definitely sick of Bob Dole's Viagra testimonials. No wonder his wife wants another full time job! 
Television programming in general is tired. The original odd couple, Sam Donaldson and Barbara Walters, on "20/20" for Monday are not quite that different from "20/2D" showing on Wednesday, nor from "20/20" airing during Friday. Minivans make me sick ... even the Toyotas that were designed by a committee of lawyers who represented children and dogs. At least that is what the commercial depicts, which is one of many commercials that tire me. I per­sonally am repulsed by women's person­al hygiene commercials, but more importantly, I am sick of commercials in general, especially with all the "new" computer animation. 
Computer systems and the potential Y2K problem have definitely been another sickening topic. I am tired of 404 Error messages on the Internet, and am sick of anything regarding Bill Gates. I hope that a systematic meltdown of computer systems slowly affects each time zone like a black cloud as the new year rings in. I hope that those Jerry Falwells of the world who have stocked up on food, water and ammunition in anticipation of this catastrophic event will have to at least use their food and water. 
Unsolicited junk e-mails have sickened me since my first day on the Internet. If the snail mail service also crumbles under the Y2K disaster, l will shed no tears. r am more than sick of my mail carrier's inability to read. Congress should make itself useful and pass a iaw preventing the Publisher's Clearing House from hiring fossils like Ed and Dick. 1would even support a legislative amendment that would outlaw the Clearing House's contests as well as all the other junk mail imitators. 
Hyphenated words and names ... enough said. 
People like myself who arc sick and tired of a myriad of everyday events seek excitement. The uncertaintv of tho historical events evolving this past year was my panacea. My withdrawal back into everyday events will probably be arduous, maybe even frightful. But one fact remains. None of us will ever be sick or tired of a walk around Notre Dame's lakes. We will always welcome family events like sharing Thanksgiving meals, coloring Easter eggs or decorat­ing Christmas trees. 
Being sick and tired to death of so many aspects of life can actually be therapeutic. When we reach what seems to be the point of no return, we trigger a swell of hope. The distrust and disgust emanating from President Clinton's scandal and impeachment will eventual­ly fade as another footnote in history. Democrats and Republicans will cam­paign hard in 2000 ... well after any Y2K disasters. While the short-term fallout from recent political events may decrease participation in our political process, our system of government remains strong. Like Scarlet O'l lara in "Gone With the Wind," I can confidently lonk forward to tomorrow, hyphenatlid words and all. 
Gary J. Caruso, '73, worked at the 
U.S. House ofRepresentatives for eigh­teen years. He can be reached at Jlottline@aol.com. 
The views expressed in this column are not necessarily those of The Observer. 

•  DooNESBURV  
=~  MR. JlJRf;ILW, MA 7HAT W'V/31?&· 71.Ret?ANPf!Atll'=' A l/TTl,eMO. n f'l<I£. TIM&.  /A/It/,, YOU /JE;HONORINO itZIR PU~ICOJWM/7iW;:NT70,1JIR·/.$Y TO V/8TNAM 70 INV£GTT­641e /ABO!< CXW/?IT/ONS IN N/1<8 SHaFACltJRJeS?  Y/;AH,R!GlfT.1 f/A,HA,f/A, IIA,HA/ HA,HA, flA.I \  

GARRY TRUDEAU 
''JORVAN "lH&N 
rlt.,£,aJTOr Iii§ CHAIR... ll 
I 
¦ 0.UOTE OFIHE DAY 
,,I]hen the rich wage l'l' war, it's the poor who die.' 
-Jean-Paul Satre 

'I 
.-----------------------~--------­
VIEWPOINT 
Monday, rebruary 22, 1999 ------------------
--------------------------page 11 
I¦ LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
In Memqry of a Notre Dame Man 
Thn Notr11 Dame family lost a vibrant member this Valentine's day. 
Vincent H. Torlep. Jr,, a 1968 graduate of the University, dind of' u lmnrt attack at thH age of 52 in a hospital in Bnthesclu, Maryland. 
I went to school with Mr. Tnrlep's son from 1984 until 1989. But my 1·011lart with him was greater than thnt of friend's pat­mit. Ilei was llrn cuach of my CYO basketball hiam for thost~ yt'ars. Ill! wn.s 11.11 assistant scoutmaster in my Boy Scout troop until 199::l. I le •.vas a friend to mv father. 
I m•v11r krrnw much about Mr. hwlup's C(trn.?r at Notrn Danw. 1know that he was a football player. I remember sf!eing Uw old game b,ill that he had in his study. But. more impor­1antly I knnw t.lwt ht: l0Vf1d th1-1 school. 
As n, nativr of Elkhart. ho grnw up on Notre Damo and Notrn Dam<' Football games. Every 'time that ht' came back into lmlinnn to visit. a relative, tJP. would stop by the school. On one surh I.rip during my freshman year, h(\ stopped by my dorm room in Keenan lla.ll just to see how I was doing. 
Whtm1ivN I talked fo my parents from schonl, they would always tell m,, that Mr. Terl(lµ asked me to light a candle at tho gr<>tto for him. I always did. His onthusiasm and love for Notn' Dame wt•re driving forees when I made up my mind to ultnnd the Univorsily six years ago. 
My father always urged me to follow him into tho praetico of law. I learned near his death that he did so on a simple com­mnnt from Vincent TPrlep. A man whose opinion and integrity he twirl in v,,ry high est1wrn. 
When my father died, Vincent Terlep was there to console us. I le didn't comP. through loudly and with a lot of' ceremony. lie quintly walkod up to my family and I, asking if thorn was anything that he could do and wisbing us well. 
Hr. was always looking out for the kids at Holy Redeemer and a.I thfl rrnighborhood swimming pool where he was a per­manent fixture. Hr took a very active leadership role in the llny Scouts and with that basketball team. Both of which lwlpNl me to reach som,, understanding of what it. means to be a good, dmlicatrd human being. 
I lis futrnral was a combination of laughter and tears. But what ros.-aboVf• tlw speHches and prayers and hymns was the portrait of a loving, caring individual who found time out of a busy schedule at the Department of Justice to volunteer as. amnng other things. president of th11 Gonzaga College High School Fathers Club and the Hcily Rerfoemor Home and School Association. 
But one ol' the most telling signs at the funeral was one of the communion hymns: the Alma Mater. That the people who know and loved him bost would choose that song as ono that represented him tells you all that you need to know about his devotion to thn school. 
llis learlnrship and goodness inspired everyono he met to be a bC'ltflr pPrson. I le was and still is an example to which the University can point when looking for what they can do for people. Every member of thfl Notre Dame family should be proud to have called him a brother. 
Oh. and if you happen to be at the grotto, light a candle for Vincent. Ile would have liked that. 
Matthew Loughran '98 Kensington, Maryland February 18, 1999 
Help Wanted. Viewpoint is now hiring editors for the 1999rw2000 school year. Please contact Colleen at 1-5303. 
¦ DIGGING DEEPER 

Ex Corde and Academic Freedom Not Mutually Exclusive 
It has rncently been suggested that those who favor the implementation of' Ex Corde Ecclcsiae at Notre Dame an~ opposnd to acadflmic froedom. On tlw contrary, I am a support11r of Ex Corde. and at tho same time, I believe that freedom is the grPatest gift given to man on tho natural level. In fact. Ex Corde itself states, "thH Church. accepting the legitimate autonomy of human cul­turn and nspecially of the sciences. recognizes the academic freedom of scholars in each discipline in accordance with its own principles and propflr methods, and within the confines of the truth and the common good." And further, "a Catholic uni­vcrsity possossos the autonomy necessary to develop its distinctive identity and pursue its propnr mission. Frncdom in rnsnarch and teach­ing is rncognizcd and respcct('d according to the principles and methods of each individual disci­pl inn. so long as Orn rights of the individual and of unlocked doors bnf'orn him. But when he cornns to know the truth ol' tlw proposition (which is tlw purposn of academir. nnquiry) tlw mattnr cPases 
l.o be doubtful to him. Ile cannot doubt this truth he has found, execpt by donying the principln of non-contradiction; oncn someorw knows that 'I'' is true. his mind naturally closns to tlw possibility that 'not-P' might also hr true. 
Okay, you say, but what does this havn to do with academic freedom'! If' 1 know 'I'', I have, so to speak, lockfld the door to 'not.-1'': I am not abhi. no matter how hard I try. Lo open the 'not-I'' door. So with this concnption or l'rondorn. my nowly acquirml knowledge has diminislrnd my freodmn; tho more knowlndgn 1ac:quiro through tlrn use of reason. t.lrn more doors hnconrn lockml. and the less "free" I bnr.ome. The only thing that can help me regain tho "freedom" 1 havn loi-;t is t.o somehow question or douht thn conclusions I 

the community are preserved-==============-rear.hod, pnrhaps by becom­
within the confinns of the truth and the common good." 
Freedom is a word that has undergone a radical trans­formation in modernitv, and must be understood correct-Jy. Genuine freedom is not merely a matter of bning free from any and all external r.onstraints. Rather, true 

freedom is a freedom for pursuing an end. Any university must. of course, value free academic enquiry. for as Mr. Sandberg correctly points out, "the Truth should be reached freely." llis statement contains the implica­tion that frendom is not an end to be pursued for its own sake. It is a means to another end. namely, freedom is the ability ofour intr.llects to pursue truth, and our will to pursue goodness. These ends arc determined, and no reason­able person would object to lhem. The role of freedom, therefore, is not to decide the end for which it is to be used, but to decide the best means to that end. The ends 
are determined, yet we are 

not determined to reaching thnrn by any one particular routH, and henee, we are free to choose the best route. 
Unfortunately, the common conception of freedom de-ernpha­sizes the importance of precisely what we choose; the important thing becomes the fact that we exercise our capacity to choose. However, this conception distorts freedom, because it is evident that chews­ing poorly. that is, choosing a means not conso­nant with our end, is not an exercise of freedom, 
Aaron Kheriaty 
ing a skeptic. Thn unfortu­natn hut imwitablf' rnsult is that ignorance s1ils me rrnc. whiln knowledgn enslaves. With the modnrn notion of' an unldternu 'academic frnl'­dom', we paradoxically bcr.omc a slave to the wry l'remlom wn am trying to ospousc. 
The only way Lo deny this conclusion is to take a (gasp) rolativislic slanco: that true and certain knowledge is unattainable, and thernforn. all conclusions aro opnn Lo doubt. and all doors thus ~~ remain unlocknd. But tlw rnla­-~ livisl position is unforlunaLPly 

· is self'-defnating to claim as ..-· ,· absolute truth that them is no 
• absolute truth. 
-~ . ~~~ 
~-0~\
I 
, I ~ 
V , , . \,
iII: 
' 
~ 
\\\ 
~\\I 
· 
Let us scrutinize this notion 
of acadmnic f'rnndom from a less theorntical standpoint. 
For good mason. one is cnr­
tainly not free at Notrn Damn 
to teach a course on the hnn­elits of Nazi 11ugnnics, or to tnach a sociology coursn on 
of diffornnt racial groups (you 
remember tlrn oulragn over the book, "The Boll Curve"). We do not t1iach astrology any­
. more; i_t has been ~ulnd out as a means for us to ar-rrvn al our truth. Although these are possible 
•• ]. paths we can venturn out on'possihln\f<5 doors Lo go through limy am ones that should have a "Do Not Entnr" sign placnd in front of them; this would hardly Im called a 
restriction on academic frnedom. So the question is not whether w11 put rnslric­lions upon an unfettnred. autonomous frendoni'of' 

but is merely an accidental result of the fact that course we do. The only question is where to draw we are free. Contrary to this mistaken under-the line? Sandberg suggests that we ought to be standing of freedom: human beings are neither free to "seek knowledge in all its various sundry born free nor are they completely autonomous. (and legal) forms." So if it is I,igal, it should Im Hathnr, we increase our freedom, we become open to being taught? What about the American ever more free, each time we choose a path that universities that existed before the Civil War? is consonant with our end. Should academic freedom have been invoked in 
Influenced by a false notion of freedom, the fol-defense of eours11s on how to managn slavns, lowing protestation against the advocates of Ex since slavery was legal? A cursory glance at his-Corde has been raised: the objection states that tory shows that common law is not going to pro-the uncritical acceptance of religious doctrine vide the best guidelines to direct our frncdom. If inhibits the activity of the intellect, and thus one would only rnad Ex Cnrdn, one would likely diminishes our freedom. In short, one who see its recommendations as a sound altnrnativn believes something on faith refuses to submit his to the alternative of legal positivism. belief to rational or critical examination, and In tho end, we will become frn1! hy finding. or trades the freedom of his mind for the blind secu-rather, blling found by thll truth, and abiding in rity of unquestioned authority. Thus. insofar as a it. This Truth can be sp1\llcd with a capital 'T' university is subject to Christian doctrine. it is because it refers not to an abstract transcenden­less free, and its edueation therefore inferior. ta! notion. but to a living pnrson (cf. Jn 14:6), a 
I want to subject this very notion nf rir-rid11mic porson who has told us, "If you make my words freedom to the same rational scruti11v ili:11 i1 your home you will indeed be my disciples, you requires of all claims to dogmatic ln;ltl, l111 cor-will learn the truth and thn truth will make you tainly it cannot be immune from its own free." (,Jn 8:31-3:1). If a Catholic university dews demands. As soon as we subject this principle of not guid(~ students to this truth, what good is it? academic freedom to its own criteria, an prob­lematic diniculty arises with it. namely, that such Aaron Kheriaty is a senior preprofessional "freedom" is defeated by the achievement of its studies and philosophy major. Jlis column stated purpose. How is this? As long as one is appears e1Jery other Monday. ignorant of the truth of a proposition, he is capa­The views expressed in this column are those of ble of affirming or denying it, or, to employ the author and not necessarily those ofThe Sandborg's metaphor, he is free to open both Observer. 

page 12--------------------------­
It's a half-empty, half-full bottle ... 
Aghast at 'Blast from the Past' 
woman wants to be loved 
like that'' Charlie, one of' the coworkers with whom 
''Message in a Bottle" 
Director: Luis Mandoki 
Theresa shares the letter, decides to publish the testi­
Starring: Kevin Costne1; Robin Wright 
monial to love, and chal­
Penn, Paul Newman, John 
lenges whomever wrote it 
Savage and IUeana Do.uglas 
to disclose himself or her­
. ) . ) i '..'\i 
.J .) 'J•:J 'i~,J
1 i I (Out offive shamrocks) 
ByJULIE HAMILTON 
Scc:flc Movie Critic 
In his novel "\fossage in a Cottle," Nicholas Sparks writes, "When sealed properly and sent lo sea, it becomes one of the most seaworthy objects known tu man. It could float safely through hurri­canes or tropical storms, it could bop atop the most dangerous of' riptides. It was. in a way. thP ideal home for the message curried inside, a message that had been sent to fulfill a promise." 
If' you are in the mood to watch a love story, "Message in the Bottle" is the movie fur you. Ir you are a hopeless romantic, you are even more qualified to enjoy tl1e 
film. 
For those cynics out there, the movie leaves you wondering why you paid money to sit in a theater and endure such a tea1jerker. One would expect that a love story would be the equivalent to an emo­tional roller coaster. However, this film consistently slays love! -never suddenly going up or down. 
Imagine loving someone so much that you literally consider them your compass in lifo. Tlwrosa. a disillusioned divorcee played by Hobin Wright Penn, finds u mys­terious bottle while jogging in Cape Cod. Enclosed in the bottle is a letter thal was written for Catherine, somebody's true love. When Theresa returns to her work­place, the Chicago Tribune, she shares the letter with her coworkers who are instant­ly intrigued by whomever wrote the beau­tiful words. Theresa's friend swoons, "God. to be someone's true north, every Eve, a cult of homeless people who worship the entry to Adam's home ­but all this allusion lacks 
"Blast from the Past" 
Director: Hugh Wilson 
any discernible meaning because it lacks rele­
Starring: Brendan Fraser, Alicia 
vance.
Silverstone, Christopher Walken, 
Characters are also 
unmotivated. For
Sissy Spacek and Dave Foley 
(Out offive shamrocks) 
By DAN SULLIVAN 
Scene Movie Crick 
"Blast from lhe Past," another of Hollywood's stabs at the romantic comedy genre this year, involves Adam Webber, (Brendan Fraser) a 35 year-old baby who emerges from his underworld shelter to experience lif'p for the first time. Soon Adam meets Eve {Alicia Silverstone) and lhe two fall in love, start dating and live happily ever aft.er. 
The problems with this film generally stem f'rom the !'act that much of the film is not motivated. Even when the viewer sus­pends their disbelief that a male could possibly live for 35 years without any sex­ual contact and not explode, plot twists, characters and themes are meaningless and too much for the audience to accept without given proper motivation. 
For instance, throughout the film, allu­sions to religion are made -Adam and self. Theresa doesn't visi­bly approve of Charlie's decision to share the letter with the public, but you may speculate that deep down, she's curious about who wrote the letter. 
After searching through several sources, Theresa and her cowork­ers track down the author -"We found him Theresa, now all you have to do is go knock on his door." Of course, Theresa sets out to meet the now infamous G. Blake. 
What she finds is Garrett Blake, a ruggedly handsome boat aficionado played by Kevin Costner. Her first encounter is actually with Garrett's father, played by Paul Newman. He directs Theresa to the boat that Kevin 


Costner is refinishing. 
First impressions are the strongest -Garrett Blake is very timid and as his father says, he "talks about as much as a fish." Garrett's strong point definitely is not pick-up lines. "Do you eat red meat?" he inquires to Theresa. "I make a perfect steak." ''I'd like to make one for you". 
Charming! 
At least he invites Theresa for his boat's "test run" the follow~ ing morning. 
Following the practically silent boat ride, Theresa is invit­ed Lo Garrett's home for that "perfect steak." When Theresa enters Garrett's home, she enters his disconnected, unreal­istic world. Garrett is the ulti­mate romantic, but not in a healthy way. 
In the corner of his quaint 

Pllolo courtesy of Warner Brothers 
residence, there is a collection Kevin Costner and Robin Wright Penn star in the of art supplies and personal romantic drama. "Message in a Bottle." 
instance, Eve's friend Troy (Dave Foley) is homosexual. This fa.ct had no significance to the plot. 
The religious cult that worships the fallout shel­ter's opening? Again, it 
had no relevance to the plot. In fact, if these fruitless details were perhaps left out. they would not have changed the film at all, and may have even helped to stream­


line an otherwise inro­potential to be a great hercnt script. film. Unfortunately it 
Probably lhe biggest wasn't. Instead ol' a fault of the script is that film about a man naive the characters arc to the wavs of tlw 
developed as carica­world because hP has tures. Wheni this may liv,~d in a fallout sheltor have hPnn .w,i1-.r LO play for hb entire life. it was for the actor~. the over­a disjointed lovo story all lackluster perfor-with an out-of-date 
mances at time.; wardrobe. "Blast Frum became somewhat Urn Past'' is a film that annoying -especially 
one should only se,i if' Alicia Silverstone's con­
forced to choose stant whining of her between it and paid­
lines. programming at 3 a.m. The most interesting It had the potential to scenes of the film were be explosive but unfor­
when Adam, metaphori-Photo courtesy of New Line Cinema tunately it fizzled out. 
Alicia Silverstone and Brendan Fraser star in "Blast from the Past" 
paintings. Garrettt didn't paint them. Catherine liid. He is obsessed with the presence that her paintings hring -to the extreme that it makes her seem us if she's still there in the living room. Theresa is touched by Garrett's devotion, but she steps over lhc line when she enters the "area" and accidentally spills a drink. 
Garrett is angered and Theresa retreats to the beach where Paul Newman offers some advice. He suggests they go back into the house, and Theresa replies, "No thanks, its too crowded in there." She should have remembered how she felt at that moment in order lo save herself end­less grief, hecause Catherine's memory truly was filling up Garrett's lif'e. 
The chemistry between Theresa and Garrett is realistic because they don't instantly fall in love, where most movies portray the unattainable "love at first sight". Rather, they stumble for conversa­tion and commonalities between their lives. 
There is a nagging point that my com­panion at the theater pointed out -she's under false pretenses with this man. She hasn't mentioned that she works fur the 
cally a baby, takes his first steps in the real world. Even when we do get into Adam's head and experience the world for the first time, the scenes are short and never reallv show Adam's awe of a sun­rise or wonderment of the sky. 
"Blast From the Past" also seems to contradict itself on issues of the real world versus life in the fallout shelter. Whereas Adam seems like a well-man­nered and well-adjusted young man despite his isolated life, the lilm rejects life in a bubble because it is not true "liv­ing." Meanwhile, life on the surface is full of problems -poverty, depravity and materialism. So the audience is led to the notion that living in a fallout shelter is bad -as noted by Adam's mom's (Sissy Spacek) excessive drinking -while at the same timo asking why one would want to live in the ma! world with all of its short­comings. 
The film attempts to resolve this issuo in the end with Adam's parents. but it is delivered as a happy ending, though it is far more tragic. For one, Adam becomes a part of the materialism that he has bncn set apart from for the entire film. Secondly, Adam's parenb, who are finally freed from life underground, end up in a spot just as isolated as where they J?egan and seem to have learned nothing from their whole experienr,c. 
One of the more interesting asp1~cts of the film was how a family of three lived in this fallout shelter for so long. The begin­ning was by far the best part of' the film as we see tho Webbers unchanging as the rest of the world bolts from one extrnme to the otlwr in a :15 year pPriod. 
This film had the 
Chi'+lgo Tribune as a researcher. She sim­ply plays naive and tells Garrott she's vis­iting and getting to know the town and its people. 
So now what'? 
Thcmsa and Garrett spend tilne togeth­er in her brief, false "visit" and then she returns to Chicago. 
Now for the next step, will they ever see each other again'? Of course. !\ow it is just a matter of how it happens. They mutual­ly decide that he will come to Chicago and visit her and her son. 
The couple continues with their awk­wardness and they somehow end up stumbling in to bed. (Uso your imagination here. It is not too explicit.) Ewrything has built up to this moment when) most love stories lead. 
Fxr,ept this one. 
While Theresa leaves tlw room brielly, Garrott discovers the infamous bottle hid­den so carefully in her nightstand. Now you're thinking, how's this emotionless man going to react? lie dons so with quick and unconvincing anger, as he spouts, "Why didn't you tell me'?" 
Well, we knew this moment would come. Now they have to mend whatever it was that they had, but they do it individu­ally. Garrett returns to the boats and Theresa mopes around the Tribune o!lice. Each ponders what true love means to them personally. 
Theresa is convinced that shn has found it in Garrett, and Garrett has not genuine­ly let go of his love for Catherine. This obviously presents a problem for a future relationship between Garrdt and Theresa. You're lef't unsure as to how Garrett really ['eels about Theresa. The most feelings he ever expn,sses an' that he misses her when slrn is in Chicago. 
What a man! 
In order for this lovr story to succerd, many factors would have to coinridr. Much like in real life, love has sucrific1\S and usually docsn't work out perfoctly. However. when one person in the rnla­tionship is truly caught in the past, tlwre can be no moving f'orward. In order f'or Garrett to love Theresa, he would have to learn to let go. 
It is too bad we never find out if' he docs 
let go -only that would makP this a truly 
complete movie. 

Monday. febrnary 22, 1999 

¦ INDIE PICK OF THE WEEK 
unmarried in her latri 20s). Joy smiles al
"Happiness" 
the ironic compliment, an~! Trish goes on to say how happy she is with her family and how she has such a grnat life. What Trish

Director: Todd Solondz 
does not know is that lrnr husband Bill, (Dylan Baker) who seems to be a sm,sitive father and psychologist. is actually a gay 

Starring: Jane Adams, Dylan Baker, Lara 
Vlynn Boyle, Philip Seymour 
pmloµhile.
Hoffman and Cynthia Stevenson 
This is the unn segment of tho film that is very conlroversial. as lhc cummunity dis­covers that Bill has raped two of his 10 year-old son's friends. Although the actual
J~) Jl) Jlj ~l) ~ 
rape scenes am not shown. there arc a few very compelling scPnes in which Bill hon­
(Out offive shamrocks) 
estly answors his son's questions about his pedophilia. The depidion is very ma! and the answers an• very hard 1.o listen to, but 

l\y JEFFREY Q. llt!SH 
Solondz makes your heart turn !'or them us they

\u..'J1l" M, lYil' ( :riti, 
ex1.rnrience this enrntional ordeal. Many crilics objnct to tlwsc scenes bncausn thBy 1tre too rnal,

lndPpPndc•nt lilms an• not olkn apprm:iatPd chm but that is lhe beauty ofSolomlz's work. 
lo their lack of big 1ianw cnlnbrit.ins and gigantic Another vo1-y rnal sflgment is tlrn scone in which<•xplosim1s thal hring dollars Ln tlm l.Jox ollicll. But tlw third sister Helen (Lara Flynn Boyle) lakes 
Limn• is c,irtain aHurn to lilms that urn not made obscene phone calls by her pathetic loser/next­strictly f"or prolil-maki ng masons. I ndnpenclen t door neighbor Allen (Philip Seymour lloffman. the 
lih11-mak11rs try to proclucn films that are not only 
guy who kissed Dirk Diggler in "Boogie Nights"). 

Pntnrtaining, but arn also an artistic rnndition of a Helen is a socially perfecl novelist whose loath­
quality mu-ralivn. 
some inner-self allows lrnr to take these calls andOflnn t.iml's indins stray from thn norm while listen as the neighbor fulfills himseif lo her voice. 

h1istowing a rnalistic intcrprntation of a story. 
i\llen is shown as a societal waste who apart from Wlul11 tl1ny do 11ot always spoak of prop1w soeiHtal lhc alore11wntioncd demonstrnlion is also an ugly

iss1ms, limy sonmhow t1•rnl to bn appnaling in their sluLtoring loner who spends his frer-Hime drinking
1111fo111iliarily and in their cn•alive depiction. This 
and m1joying pornography. 

crmtlivn d11pit:lio11 of nxotic subjr.cts is thn art char­Throughout the lilm Solondz makes you feel pityac·Li•rizPd by many indqrnnclrmt lilm productions. 
for all of the characters. I le shows the good and And as w1• havo hmrnc\d l'rom 1mrlier campus-wid11 the bad of everyone (although some bad is worse 

d1\liall'S, art and artisLs can Im conlrovnrsial. 
Llrnn others). lie brillianlly shows the perverted

Todd Solondz is mw of tlw today's most contro­scenes as dark shock comedy, but then makns you 
VPrsia I ind1ipP11dP11t 
liln1-makPrs. In IIJ<J<i. Solondz won tlw S1111da11n• Film F1•slival (;ra11cl Prizl'  feel compassion for these reprehensible people. Tbe shots are so rnal that you see their true humanity 
for writing and din•ct­i11 g th1i nilically an:lai111Pd "W1•konw l.o till' llollhousl'." llis  and !eel their individ­ual sorrnw. You get lhn l'eeling that you want to just jump into  
most r1•n'11l l'ITorl is til1• polc•min1I 111•w film "llappi111•ss," a film  thn movie and help them, especially with Joy. .Joy's abuso was  
about grossly disturb­ing pPopl<·, thPir olfon­ very frustrating, because she was so  
.'iiVI'  aclio11s and tlwir  sweet and innocent.  
humanity. TIH• film opPns with  So!ondz's gnnius even makes you sympa­ 
Joy l.la1w Adams), 011n of I.hi• lhrt'l' sislPrs that tlw 11arrativ1• l'ollows, hn\aki11g up wilh lwr  Photo courtesy of Good Machine Releasing Philip Seymour Hoffman and Lara Flynn Boyle star in "Happiness."  thize with both Bill the gay pedophile and Allnn the societal waste -Bill because  

hoyfriPnd allcr only a fow dat1\S. In this scene we you see how he truly loves his family and Allen 
am inlroducnd tn Joy's llaw. This llaw is a naive\ because he searches for help and just wants to live 
Ca11didP-like ignorarn:p that 110 01w is evil and "all his pathetic lifo in peace.is l'or the lwst." Cons1!qmmlly. she is mentally "I lappiness" is shockingly funny and intelligent.
ahusPd liy almosl everymw who comes into con­All Uw whihi it accomplishes its goal of prnducinglal'.l with lwr. Jon Lovitz plays Lhe part ()f tlrn strong emotion in the telling or Solondz's contro­
hoyl'rii,nd who viciously altacks Joy by comparing versial subject matter. Solondz's work was againlmr lo focal matter and tnlling her how he is "so crnative and masterful -he truly defines the art nmrh lmtlnr" than sh1i. .Joy lakes il all in, without a of quality directing. The actors were quite convinc­
rntort or any angnr al being def'anrnd in this way. ing and every scene was rnal. l11 the 1mxt sr.mw w11 see .loy talking about the The only problem the film really has is that thehrPakup wilh surprisingly slight co111idence to her subject matter is not for everyone. No one under sistnr Trish (Cynthia Stevm1son). Trish tells Joy in the age of 18 should ever see this film. The lilm is hrn· 'Tm living tlw 1mrfoct suburban lifo" attitude also definitely not a weekend movie for college stu­
that tlw unlirn family 1Hw1ir thought she would denls; looking fo1· a good time. It is a lilm for people
ammml lo anything and that she is so glad that Joy who love quality cinema and wish ln articulate dif­is doing wdl (evnn though slrn is unemployed and fenmt idoas about original subject matter. 

Movie Title 

1. Message in a Bottle 
1. Payback 
3. 
My Favorite Martian 

4. 
Blast from the Past 


5. October Sky 
6. 
Shakespeare in Love 

7. 
She's All That 


8. Office Space 
9. 
Rushmore 

10. 
Saving Private Ryan 


Source; Associated Press 
~Xt1Dotr1ee Co111ing 
Gross Sales 
$ 10.3 million $ 10.3 million $ 6.7 million $ 6.1 million $ 6.0 million $ 5.8 million $ 5.4 million $ 4.3 million $ 2. 7 million $ 2.4 million 

¦ VIDEO PICK OF THE WEEK 

.ByJOE I.ARSON 
Scene Movie Critic 
Have you ever had a job you didn't like? 
Writer and di.rector of rult classic mo·vie "Clerks" did. Kevin Smith is a New .Jersey native who after a semester of college and four months of film school found himself working in a Quick-Stop convenience store earning about five dollars an hour. So, like any good ntm stu• dent, he wrote a film about it and shot the film in the store after hours. Tlrn film cost less than $27,575 to make. 
This film, "Clerks," won him awards at both the Sundance and Cannes Film Festivals. Along with Ed Burns' "The Brothers McMullen,'' «Clerks" started the independent movie craze that has almost made independent movies as well-received as the more mainstream big-budget Ifollywood pictures. 
"Clerks" is the first of three movies made by Smith 
best. Not only is it funny, but thore are many truths in the extensive di1tlngu<1 betwrrnn characters. 
Dante has to deal with con­
... 
stantly letting himself got pushed around by other people. Ile also has to decide on which woman he wants to b1~ with. His current girlfriend, Veronica, loves him and brings him lasagna at work. while his ex-girlfriend, Caitlin, cheated on him and is ongagtld to another man. · 
Dante has to deticte on whether or not he wants tht1 excitement of dnting Caitlin or the stability of staying with Veronica. He has to figure this out, and deal with all the cus­tomers and his hoss pushing him around all day. 
Randall is constantly shedding light on Dante's situation with humor, hut Dante just can't see what he needs to do. 
Hccurring characters Jay (Jason Mewes) and Silent Bob (Kevin Smith himself') alvvavs 
add humor and ridicu­

lous antics to a Kevin

that take place in the 
Smith movie . .lay is a

New Jersey arna, about 
trash-talking drug

charu.cters native to 
T ·, '.,·, .. 11-•­
dealer that hangs

that area. It is his most 
EJ.. .. 
'j 
around outside the

recognized and critical­
Quick-Stop with his

ly acclaimed film. It is 
quiet buddy. Si!Pnt

about Dante Hicks, 
Bob. These two always

(Brian O' Halloran) a 
provide comic roJipf

pushover. convenience 
and are mostly looked

store clerk, and his day 
at as funny bit parts.

at work. Dante is 
Y1>t they always end up

joined by his friend 
bt'coming much biggrr

Randall, (Jeff 
parts in the rmwie than

Anderson) a. wisecrack­
ing. rude video store P?1ctc ~-:'<.~~-.-a'·~ -,re.,. thev set>Ill. 
clerk that works rwxt door. The film follows Dante and Randall through tht'ir day dealing with incompetent customers and their own lives, 
"Clerks" is an absolutely hilari­ous, but thought-provoking film, Smith's dialogue between Randall and Dante is incrediblP. Thoy talk about cveiything from love and relationships to "Star Wars." Smith's films are famous for their dialogue, and the dia­logue in "Clerks" is definitely his 
··berks"' is an abra­sively funny picture 
that leaves nothing sacred and 
no stonos unturned. This is a 
classic college movie. It is clevl'r­
ly and intelligenlly ,,Tiltt'n about 
a normal pl:'rson and tht' lift• ... 
decisions lh<'\' haw w mai..t'. · E,·t'n though it. commt•nt:. t)ll. th~· 
intricaeif•:. of lilt'. jl,SI li\..t' Nllt•gt• studPnts dl,, it t1tlt'sn t ignore thP hunrnr that \W fact! in our dailv rnutint•s and tJw people we mPt;t 
along the way. 
,, 
-
... 

,;L~.~ sO On 
·· :tl!,r>---;g 

February 26 
8MM, starring Nicolas Cage Just the Ticket, starring Andy Garcia and Andie MacDowell 
March 5 

Analyze This, starring Robert Deniro, Billy Crystal and Lisa Kudrow Cruel Intentions, starring Sarah Michelle Gellar and Reese Witherspoon The Corruptor, starring Chow Yun-Fat and Mark Wahlberg 
J 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS ____ Monday, February 22, I 999 
¦ HOCKEY 

Notre Dame's losing streak extends to four 
By TED BASSANI 
~pNt, Writ,·r 
In manv wavs. hockcv is much likl' fo<)tbail: offe1;se and dPf!,nsr an' both important, but special tl'ams is what wins and lmms games. 
Notre Dame has certainlv learned lhat lesson in its reccn"t losing streak, which reached four after losses to Mil'higan StatP and Bowling Green this past ,wt>kend. For tlw weekend. thP power play wPnt scoreless and tlrn team allowed two power-play goals against it in each game. In fact, the team has not scored a power-play goal in two weeks, going 25 straight opportunities without a goal. 
Friday night. the Irish took on No. 3 Michigan State for the third straight week, completing their season series a~ainst the Spartans. For lhe second week in a row, Notre Dame lost at Munn Ice ArPna; this time by a score of 3-1, and as a result lost the season series. 
Entering the game, the Irish had gone scoreless in their last seven foll periods. They saw that drought continue until late in the third period when Andy Jurkowski scored h.is first goal of the season. 
"Every team goes through a drought," coach Dave Poulin said afterwards. "Hopefully this is a great time to go through it, but we have to come out ofit." 
The ofTensive star of the game was once again MSU's senior left wing Bryan Adams. Adams finished the game with two power-play goals and an assist, giving him four goals and an assist in three games against the Irish this vear, with three goals coming with the man advantage. 
"Bryan's having a great senior year," MSL' coach Ron Mason said of Adams, who now has 19 goals on the season. "Ile has great speed, and tonight he showed it not only by getting to the front of the net, but he also made a beautiful play on the third goal." 
Unfortunately for both teams, this clean, well-played game ended in ugly fashion when 


Notre Dame lost to both Michigan State and Bowling Green this weekend and now hold fifth place in the CCHA standings. 
Michigan State center Mike a while and I guess that's what in rested. The coaching move Much of Notre Dame's recent York allowed his personal frus­happened to him." that proved wisest for Falcons offensive problems can be tration to boil over in the wan­Saturday night, the team's coach Buddy Powers was to summed up in a word: ing moments of the game. offensive woes continued match up Zach Ham and his rebounds. In their last four 
Against the Irish this season, against the Falcons of Bowling linemates against Notre Dame's games, the Irish have scored York has certainly been the tar­Green. Once again, Notre Dame top line, centered by Ben Simon. just two goals and have missed get of physical play and he has allowed two power-play goals "We had three goals on the a number of rebound chances, only managed one assist in the and did not score one of their board," Powers said after the both on the power play and at three games. own as the Falcons won 5-1, game. "One was to win the spe­even strength. 
All this frustration manifested despite outshooting Bowling cial team battles, the second About the team's offensive itself in the form of a brutal Green 40-22 for the night. was to shut down Simon's line struggles, senior Aniket two-handed slash across the Bowling Green managed to and the third was to win the Dhadphale said, "There's no arms of Irish defenseman Sean kill off all nine Irish power battle of the goalies and we won easy way out. We just have to Molina. The slash resulted in a plays, including two five-on­all three. This was one of the relax more with the puck. We've brawl, for which every player on three situations, one of which best efforts we've had here in a been taking shots from bad the ice received a game miscon­lasted bver a minute and a half. couple of years." angles. Wn have to crcatfl better duct, in addition to York's five­Bowling Green's best penalty­Obviously, stopping Simon and chances and tighten up around minute major. killer was goaltender Mike company was Bowling Green's the net." 
However, York did not get Savard. who made 39 saves in top priority, and they did just With only four games remain­slapped with a one-game sus­all, including nine on Notre that, keeping the line scoreless. ing, the Irish now sit fifth in the pension as is sometimes handed Dame's second five-on-three Every time Ben Simon took an CCHA standings, one point down with a five-minute slash­opportunity. even-strength draw, he faced off behind Northern Michigan. ing major. From the outset. the Falcons' versus Zach Ham, the team's Notre Dame hosts Northern 
"There's no excuse for Mike physical presence proved trou­best defensive center. For coach Michigan next weekend for a York to slash somebody; that's blesome for the Irish, especially Powers, history showed him two-game series that will most not his game," Mason said. since Bowling Green did not why matching up against Simon likelv determine home ice in the "Sometimes you just snap after play on Friday night and came was so important. playoffs. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre 0ame offtce. 024 South Dining Hail. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid.
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content withour issuing refunds . 
..___N_o_r_r_c_Es_  __.!  ILOST & FOUND j  NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND 8,6.4,3,BEDROOM 2773097  3 BDRM. DUPLEX, REMODELED, 501 EDDY ST. 1 Ml. FROM CAMPUS. APPLI­ Emily likes boys. I have proof. "It's not dinner without Joe!"  Hello. My name is Inigo Montoya. you killed my father. Prepare lo die.  
Spring Break Bahamas Party  Missing ... If anyone has found a  ANCES, W/D.  The year of the Rabbit a big disap­ 
Cruise! 5 Nights S2791 Includes  Superman Necklace, please return  WALK TO SCHOOL  273-8332.  Dan and Paul are gods • wait, I'm  pointment.  
Meals & Free Parties! Awesome Beaches.Nightlife! Departs From  to 317 Fisher. Reward  2·6 BEDROOM STARTING$185  FOR SALE  thinking of Kati and Kathleen  Why, no rabbits in your life?  
Florida! Cancun & Jamaica $399!  LOST: Notre Dame Class Ring.  MONTH/PERSON  I hear Sean Smith might be coming  
springbreaktravel.com  Description: Aquamarine stone with  232·2595  guitar effects processor. Boss ME·  back to us! Woohoo!  Is Jerome your alter-ego?  
1 ·800·678-6386  name engraved on the inside of the  8; heralded as best midpriced  
ring.  lnitials-PML. Call 273-9813.  5 & 6 BDRM HOMES. 1999/2000,  effects board. chorus, dist, rev,  If a body meet a body,  Oh, yeah!  
"'  Spring Break Panama City $1291  SUMMER OR NOW.NEAR CAM­ wha, harmonizer, and many other  Comin' through the rye,  
Boardwalk Room w/Kitchen Next  Lost: Spiderman Folder and assign­ PUS.FURN.GILLIS PROPER­ effects. great cond w/ case. $200.  If a body greet a body,  Antonio hai i pantaloni sporchi. Tutti  
To Clubs! 7 Parties! Daytona $149!  ment notebook, It found please call  TIES.2726551  call matt at 273-9795  Need a body cry?  amano i pantaloni sporchi  
South Beach $1291Cocoa Beach  0992.  d'Antonio.  
$149!  HOUSE OR ROOMS AVAIL NOW  •we like it loud on Sunday nights'"  
WANTED  272-6551  B9mazda rx7 $5300 mustsell  I miss Italian class! Ciao!  
springbreaktravel.com  like new. 2888701  Carolyn and Cindy ­ 
CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT  FJ..ORIDA SPRING BREAK  l think it has something to do with  Congratulations on Australia,  
1-800-678•6386  Workers earn up to  PERSONAL  tear of the unknown.  Lindsay!  
$2, 000+/montl'l (w/tips & bene- SANDPIPER-BEACON BEACH  
How Green is Green?  fits).World Travel! Land-Tour jobs  RESORT PANAMA CITY BEACH  Fax it fast at THE COPY SHOP in  Have we lost our groove so soon?  A big "hi there and hello" to all the  
up to $5,000-$7,000/summer.Ask  FLORIDA FROM $159 PER PER­ LaFortune. FAX Sending and  Morrissey boys. You may have beat  
Work in Ireland on a Student  us how'  SON  Receiving. 631-FAX1  ls the honeymoon over?  us (badly) in bowling but revenge is  
Work Abroad Program and find out!  517-336·4235 Ext.C55842  3 POOLS 1 INDOOR POOULAZY  sweet.  
RIVER RIDE HUGE BEACHSIDE  Riddle Me This.  Those brownies will be baked with  ---The Belles  
Call 1-888·Council and ask for  BOYS & GIRLS CLUB NEEDS  HOTTUB SUITES UP TO 10 PEO­ Riddle Me That,  anylhing BUT love.  
Tom.  VOLUNTEER B-BALL COACHESt  PLE FREE INFO 1·800-488-8828  Who is afraid of the  Who knew you could fit nine people  
- ········-·-······-····­ Season runs 3·99 to 5-7-99  WWW.SANDP!PERBEACON.COM  Big Black Cat?  Despite what Tim seems to think, I  rather comfortably in a Corolla?  
CANCUN. BAHAMAS  Call 232-2048 for more info  no longer work under him.  
PANAMA CITY  FOR RENT  Room $275/mo in large house 2 miles from ND. 246-0704  Need a job? Student ActiVities is accepting applications for Sound  Christine and Collen like it loud on  Meredith •· it"s only a matter of time before we take over the world' ·LP  
Get FREE PARTIES with USA  Techs & Building Sal Up Crew.  Sunday nights -· or any night!  
Spring Break!  BED 'N BREAKFAST  2 Bdrm. Apt. at College Park avail­ Apply at 315 LaF~rtune.  1-900-PRESSL Y  
REGISTRY  able to sublease for summer ses·  Yeah. Dawg!I  
Call 1-888· 777-4642 to book  sion.  Call 4-3620.  Hello Dan and Paul. Here is your  The Campus Media E:strogen  
your trip today!  219-291-7153  classified.  !nconceivabl0!  Brigade: baby! Get used to it!  

Monday, Febrnary 22, 1999 The Observer• PAID ADVERTISE==M=-=E::.=-N~T-'---------~-~----_____p_ag_re_l_5 
Abortion, euthanasia and capital 
punishment demean the lives of 
countless individuals in our society. Gather with us in Eucharistic Adoration to prax for an end to the culture of death. 


Jesus is here with us in the Eucharist lo give us answers-answers that will lead us to trulh, happiness and peace. In this culture of ­death, it is easy for people to become weaty and indifferent to God and His gift of life. People often fall short of their obligation to care 
for and nurture the spiritual and physical lives of themselves and oth­ers. Eucharistic Adoration gives a person the opportunity to nurture his own spiritual life, as well as the spiritual lives of others ( through prayer for them.) Prayer also protects the physical 
lives of those endangered by abortion, euthanasia and other forms of violence. It is only through the grace which 
comes-from prayer that others' hearts can be changed from seeking death to loving life. Christ gives us the strength to press on in our battle for life. In order to be Christ-like in our service to preserve life, we must be filled with His life through prayer. We ask you to join us in prayer for life at Eucharistic Adoration. 
What is Eucharistic Adoration? 
God is present to us in many ways in our. world, but Ile is especially present to us in the Eucharist. As Roman Catholics. we believe that Jesus Christ, who lived '.lOOO years ago, is truly present in the Eucharist. In Eucharistic. Adoration, the Host is placed in a monstrance, in order for us to be able to come and pray. Jesus is always hidden in the tabernacle, but in adoration He is exposed so that we can come and kneel before Ilim, face to face, and speak with Cod. When Jesus is exposed like this, He can never be left alone. lhus, people sign up to be responsible to come and pray with Him for a certain amount of time (usually 'lz-1 hour) every week. 
"! mahe a lzo/y hour each day in the presence Why should I go? of Jesus in tlze Blessed Sacrament. All my If Jesus were to come to the JACC, wouldn't you come and stand in !ine for hours just to talk to Him for a minute? Even if you weren't Christian, wouldn't you be al least
sisters of tile Missionaries of Charity ma/le a daily 

interested in this God so many people talk about? Well, Jesus is truly present here on holy liour us well, because we find that through · campus-in the Eucharist. IN ADORATION YOU HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY TO GO AND SPEAK WITH GOD FACE TO FACE. You can confide in Him, plead with Him,
our daily holy hour our love for Jesus becomes 

question Him. And if you sit quietly enough, He will inspire you with answers.
111ore intimate, oiu-love for each other more ­undemanding, and our love for £he poor more 
What do I do when I am there?
~ II . : . {~ 

compasswnate... ,.i· When you enter the chapel, you should genuflect as a sign of reverence to Jesus. It is common practice during Adoration to genuflect on two knees, instead of just one
-Mother Teresa 

(like you do whenever you enter achapel.) You can stand, sit, or kneel-whatever helps you pray. And then you pray. There are many ways. to pray: you can do spiritual reading; you can pray a rosary; you can sit in silence; you can even just talk to Jesus­like you would to a friend. The most important thing is that you love Him and allow Ilim to love and strengthen you. 
What does the Church think? 
"Exposilion of tlte Blessed Sacrament, whether in a pyx or a monstrance, is a recognition of the wondrous Presence of Christ in the sacrament and stimulates us to unite ourselves lo Him in a spiritual comm11nio11. ft is, accordingly, eminently in Jiarmo11y with tl1e worship which we owe Him in spirit and truth ... " 
-Post-Conciliar (Vatica11 11) Document, S.C.D.W. 
Spomorrd by Noire Dame Righi to l.ifr AMl>C: • /Ml 

EUCHAitISTIC ADORATION ON CAMPUS: 
FRIDAY: Blessed Mary Chapel in the Basilica: 12:00pm (following 11 :30am Mass) -5:00pm with a Rosary beginning at 4:15pm. (Ends with Benediction at 4:45pm) 
MONDAY beginning at 11:30pm {following 11 :OOpm Mass) through TUESDAY at 10:00pm (Ending witli Benediction at 9:45-10:00pm) In Pisher Hall Chapel. 
-~---~-~----------------------------------------------.....i 


WC 
• • ................... -·----­
page 16 The Observer• SPORTS Monday, February 22, 1999 
¦ WOMEtfS BASKETBALL 

McMillen leads Notre Dame to victory with 25 points 

Team wins despite Riley's 
foul trouble and 
sore back 
By ANTHONY BfANCO 
Assistanr Sporrs Editor 
The Irish took advantage of playing on someone else's court with an 89-54 win al West Virginia Saturday bef'ore next week's Big East tournament at Rutgers. 
"Espi,cially against West Virginia and then Miami this week. we're using these games as tune-ups to prepare for the tournament," said Sheila McMillen. 
If tlw tournanrnnl brackets were drawn this weekend. Notrr Dame would face the winner or the Miami-West Virginia game. The two teams also happen to be Notre Dame's last two regular sea­son opponents. 
The Irish will conclude the regular season at the Joyce Center Tuesday night against the Hurricanes. 
If Saturday's game was any indication of the upcoming tournament. the Irish will be ready as players like McMillen step in and drain the points. She led all scoring Saturday with 25 points as team scoring leader Ruth Riley played for just five minutes. 
McMillen gave Notre Dame the lead for good after hitting a trey about two-and-a-half minutes into the first half, giv­ing the Irish an 8-7 lead. 
She sunk four more from downtown to give her a career total of 205, which ties her for the school best with Beth Morgan. ('93-'97). 
"It's a great accomplish­ment." said McMillen on tying 
The Obse 
the record with one gamB left in her collegiate career. "I know that one day 1· II be abh~ to look hack and think more of this. But right now, we're all concentrating on the tourna­ment." 
The 6-foot-5 Rilev foll into some early fou.l trm1ble, and a sore back prnvenled her from becoming a rnal threat. 
McMillen turned the usually dominant in-the-paint into a downtown threat The senior captain nailed 5-of-9 threr,­
pointers and 8-of-13  field  
goals  against  the  
Mountaineers.  

"The guards knew that Ruth would be limited and we need­ed to step up," said McMillen. "Everyone knew they needed to step up. not just the guards." 
Freshman Ericka llaney did just that off of the bench, fol­lowing McMillen in scoring with 14 points in just 19 min­utes on the court. She also tied Danielle Greim to lead the Irish with three steals in the game, leading a defonse that allowed only two Mountaineers to score in dou­ble digits. 
Forward Maria Tchobanova and guard Rebecca Burbridge led West Virginia with 13 points apiece for a team that shot a dismal 30 percent from the field. 
Notre Dame hit 57 percent of their first-half shots, giving them a 47-34 lead at the half. They ballooned to a 63-36 lead with 11:34 left in the game on a pair of free throws by McMillen. West Virginia helped widen the gap after the half by missing nine of its first 10. 
The loss extends the Mountaineers losing streak to three games, while the Irish enter the regular-season finale Tuesday riding a two­game win streak. 

Oh, I:Jes, I am 
21 
today l Happy Birthday, Sarah! 
Love.Mom 
The Observer/Jeff Hsu 

Senior Sheila McMillen scored 25 points Saturday to boost the Irish to an easy victory over West Virginia. 
csc 
C E N T E R F O R 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Come to hear the stories of 
Chicago Gang Members 
with Brother Bill Toomes 
-an open discussion-
Sunday, February 28, 1999 4 p.m. Center for Social Concerns 
u sea w •
w ­

Monday, February 22, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 17 
¦ MEN'S BASKETBALL 
ND's pressure defense stifles Mountaineers, 71-69 
By ALAN WASIELEWSKl 
Sporr; Writer 
Notre  Damn  turned  tho  
tablns  on  Wnst  Virginia  
Sunday.  

Hecovering from a Cive-poin t loss l.o the Mountainn11rs just a wt>1ik ago. tlw Irish applied wnll-tinwd prnssurn deft!nsu to sc:on! a 71 -(>() win al tlw .loycP Cn11tnr. 
Staying trun to form, Notrn l>anw lc!l turnovPrs changn a f'irst-llllll' lt!ad into n snrnnd­half dnficit. Wnst Virginia l'orc-c•cl 24 Irish turnovers and look adva11tag1• of starting point g-uarcl Martin lngelsby's injury and the orw-game sus­1wns ion of' haek-up .Jimmy Dillon. 
Fiflh-y1!,lr captain Paul Hairwy. a onP-timP walk-on. took ilw ridgns or the Irish 01T1!11so and stnppnd it up lo put up a final-minute-win. 
With Noln• nanw down by two points, lwad coach Johr1 Mad.nod institut••d a full-court prc~ss to forc11 some tu rnovrrs. 
"I thought WP had tlrn game w1111," W PSl Vi rgi 11 ia hf!ad !"oad1 (ialr Cath•tt said. "We liavnn't had trouble with tlrn pn•ss all year but somn play­c•rs got out of' position and i1 rPsultnd in s11mP turnovers." 
Wnst Virginia inbound11d lo 1· P 11 t n r Ma re us Co r IH'. who Notrf' l>arnn's Sky Ownns and llarold Swanagan promptly trap1wfl in tlw cormir. Tim ball cunw loosP and Swanagan pickr,cl it up and drovr, lhc larw for a tough lay-up. Gorn!' rncovored to block thn ball, but rnfornns called goallnnd­ing with the ganrn t.iPcl with just ovPr 40 snconds lert. 
Notre Damn forcnd anotlwr kny Lurnovnr on thn next pos­session when Troy Murphy dovn lo tho ground and tiod up a loosP ball. Tho resulting jump hall g11vll Notrn Damr possPssion and Hainny tho 
opportu nily lo play lwro. 
The Irish gave the ball to Hainey, who was fouled by the Mountaineers· Jarett Kearse. 
"I thought it was a great l'oul." Catlntt said. "Kearse knew that he [Rainey) was a poor frne-throw shooter." 
Hainey, then 0•7 cm the year and 1-10 lifetime from tho charity stripn, swished both attempts to give Notrn Dame tlrn winning baskets. 
"They probably 1hought it was a good foul," Hainey said. "'Look at this guy, ho's going lo miss.' But I was able to block out everything and keep my confidnncfl and knock down the shots." 
Even with 17 seconds to tie. dcf'ensive prossuro by Swanagan and Owens denied Wost Virginia any good looks at the basket. K!mrse's despcr­ati011 three-pointer at the buzzer complntely rnissc,d the rim. 
c;orne had 14 µoints and 10 robounds for the MountainPors and Keanm added 12 points, llighl assists. and four steals. 
"This was a great game, a trmnondous win for our team." Macl.nod said. "What a wild l1nish. l'aul Hainey showed the typl' of player Im is today. He krrnw Im was gf'tti ng the start• ing job and handl<id it woll. He 
is  a  groat ,ixam pl1•  for  our  
younger kids."  
While  Hainny  scaled  the  

Irish win with his only two points of the gamn. the bal­anced offensive attack set the foundation for thc victory. 
Antoni Wyche had one of his better first-halves of his carenr with 11 points and live assists. hitting all six of his field goa.l attmnpts. 
David Gravps snapped out of a slump with a game-high 18 points, thriie steals, two-of­three behind th!1 three point arc and six-or-six from the frno-throw line. 
UPPER DECK 
Overlooking the Playing Field at Coveleski Regional Stadium 
COMPLETE BANQUET FACILITIES YEAR ROUND 
GRADUATING SENIORS ­WE STILL HAVE OPEN DATES FOR SPRING GRADUATION PARTIES-BOOK YOUR DATE EARLY!! 
235-9985 
*Catering for up to 2,500* *State of the Art AudioNideo* Visit Us at 501 WEST SOUTH 


WRITE FOR SCENE. 
CALL 1-4540. 
-


•
~1~t 

HAIR MODELS NEEDED 
For Monday's Training Program by Licenced Professionals. Call for Information 289-5080 

-

Freshman Troy Murphy scored 17 points and had 11 rebounds against West Virginia Sunday to earn his ninth double-double of the season. 
Still struggling with The comoback in the final with their NIT Tournament turnovers. Graves keved a minute made up for another hopes on the line. couple of Irish rallies· with second-half scoring slump for "This was a big win, but now somo big steals. the lrish. everything go!\S into propara­
Troy Murphy also had a pro­"I think the players learned tion for St. .John's," Macl.rod ductive game. Seventeen how to react in that situation," said. points and 11 rebounds gave MacLeud explained. "They If his team can win him his ninth double-doubln of kept their composure .and Wednesday and then take the season. Murphy also shot learned to take things a littlo Boston College at homo on nine of 10 from the free-throw slower." Feb. 28. a 15-14 record and line and the team shot 87 per­The Irish will face highly solid showing in the Big East cent at the charity stripe. ranked St. John's Wednesday Tournament could equal a 
at Madison Square Garden post-season berth. 
a to l@U a $ 
-qe ----.......­
·­

page 18 The Observer• SPORTS Monday, February 22, 1999 
times," Raim•y said. "It's what. one of those competitors, every character and work ethic. While his efforts for tlrn bas­you dream of. I'm fortunate to day in practice he works his tail "I think as a captain and ketball team the last sevc1ral
Rainey 

have the opportunity to make off, works as hard as he can. being older and a senior on this years has largAly been intangi­
-
-
continued from page 24 
which he will start after gradu­ation. Nol many people knew much about Rainey aside from the coaches and teammates. 
"He never gets his head d ow n . " MacLeod said. "He's got great focus and you love to see a kid like that get a reward by being on the line to Rainey make two key free throws. It's really great to see. It's what college basketball is all about. It's a great story really." 

It is truly a great story, but unfortunately it's not what col­lege basketball is all about. rt's what college basketball should be about. 
Rainey did not use Division I basketball to gel exposure or the extra year to make the jump to the NBA. 
Rainey graduated with a 3.5 GPA and came back for the love of competition and for what being part of a team can teach you. 
It's good enough l.o be the backdrop on one of those "This is Notre Dame" commercials that almost brings a tear to our eyes. 
The free throws weren't as 
dramatic as Brvce Drew's shot 
in the NCAA T~urnament that 
provided the carriage for 
Valparaiso's Cinderella story. 
No one will be talking about it years down the line, except maybe Rainey. 
"I guess I'll probably be 
rrtelling this story quite a few good on the situation." 
His teammates, who see Rainey's dedication everyday. were happy that the Joyce Center crowd got to see a piece of that dedication. 
"Ile was all bloody, his lip was messed up but he won us the game and that's great for him," Troy Murphy said. "He works hard every day in practice and is really a leader on this team." 
"Paul has come a long way," senior Phil Hickey said. "He's 

lntemationa/ Student Affairs 204 LaForlune Center 

l'm so happy for him that his hard work paid off for him in his first starting role. He should be proud of his effort and the fans should be proud of his effort." 
The effort that Rainey and the fans should really take pride in is his daily effort on and oIT the court that provides him with such a bright future. 
As a senior and a captain, Rainey leads not with assists and three-pointers but with 
team I have to assume a leader­ship role," Rainey said. "I came from an unusual route to get to where I am today and I think that earned me a lot of respect among my teammates." 
"It's helped me assume the leadership role," he continued. "I go out there and do the right i.hing and try lo be a good example and so they can be a good example for the younger guys when they get to this point." 
Upcoming Events: 
5th Annual Theodore M. Hesburgh1 C.S.C. Lectures on Ethics and Public Policy 
Martha Nussbaum 
Ernst Freund Professor of Law and Ethics, University of Chicago 
Women and Human Development: 
In Defense of Universal Values 

Friday, February 26, 1999 at 3:00 p.m.
Thursday, February 25, 1999 at 4:15 p.m. 
Religion and Sex Equality 
Hesburgh Center Auditorium University of Notre Dame 
A
,,-_ ..,,,.
:(17" .... ~[;&
-~ 
.l ...1-~ 
11111 
EVERYONE WELCOME! 

Joan B. Kroc Institute 
tor International Peace Studies (219)631-6970 www.nd.edu/~krocinst 
219-631-3824 
02/23 Tues. 
02/22 Mon. 
02/23Tues. 
02/24 Wed. 
02/25 Thurs. 
02/22-02/23 Mon.-Tues. 02/26 Fri. 
02/26 Fri. 
02/26 Fri. 
02/27 Sat 
New Hammes Book Store 
Cushing Auditorium Cushing Auditorium Montgomery Theater 
DeBartolo Hall Rm 119 
Cushing Auditorium 
Montgomery Theater 
Ctr For Social Concerns 
Montgomery Theater 
Ctr for Social Concerns 
Lar-ortune Ballroom 
ble, Sunday he got something very tangible to share with those 15 brothers and sistf\rs he said in the Notre Dame media guide are his most prized pos­session. 
''I'll be on the e-mail and on the phone tonight," Hainey said. 
They say you make a player earn it when he goes to the free­throw !inn, but Rainey earned everything he got before the ref'­eree ever handnd him the ball. 

the Wo11tl Convetfles 
at JVotJ'e Dame 
in a week of 
fashion, film, iood, literature, sports, talent 
3:30pm 
8:00pm 8:00pm 8:00pm 
7:00pm 
7:00pm 2:00pm 6:00pm 
3:00pm 
6:00pm 
7:00pm 

INTERNATIONAL BOOK FAIR READINGS 
FOREIGN FILM FESTIVAL 
Once Upon a Time in China IL Postino House ofAngels 
DOCUMENTARY ON ARAB CULTURE 
The Message 
ND UNITED MUSLIM ASSOCIATION BOOK SALE 
LECTURE-Democracy and Human Rights in lslam~Dr. Assad Bussool 
INTERNATIONAL FOOD BAZAAR 
INTERNATICNAL FESTIVAL T~.LE~JT !. f t.G~-tlON SHOW 
Sponsored by the Asian International Society, Chinese Friendship Association, India Association of Notre Dame, International Student Organization, Muslim Students Association, Notre Dame United -Muslim Association, and the Office of International Student Affairs. 
•.­
-WWW"' ­

Monu.,y, ~ebruary 2_2_,_19_9_9_______________:T...:.:h~e...::0:.::b:;:se::.r..::ve::r_•__.::S~P:.___O~R~T~S'.________________________!'P~ag~e:...:1~9 
B E 
N 
G 
A 

125 Lba. Jason "Ve9as" McMahon 
Bye 
Marc "There Can Be Only One" Aramini Bye 
Bye Kevin "K.0." Overbeck 
Bye Rick "UI' Pun" Holcomb 
135 Lb1. David "The Prancing Plxle" Seerveld vs. John "l'u Fighter• l<akkanathu 
Matt Fumagalli ••· Marlin "The Iceman" Garry 
Man "Shag•a-delllc" Eberly vs. llanlel '1'00 Short" Gallegos 
Charles •The Montana Mauler" Madden v~. Camlin "Rollin'" Rueda 
HSLl,11. 
Tommy "Go Ahead and Sign Your" WIii vs. Zach "The Ripper• Fulton 
Jim "The Unloader" Shacklett vs. Ant "Ton ol Bricks Pounding Down on Yo Head" Kemp, 
rhll "'fhf! Otlll" Ca.s\roglov•nn\ vs. Daniel "Pretty Boy" Gonzalez 
Marc "The Grand Inquisitor" Tubay v•. Mike "The Roof, The Roal, The Roal ls on Fire" Maguire 
150 tba. 
J. It "MaddoR" Mellln 'IS. Babu "Not an Ounce ol Athletic Ablility" Kaza 
Matt '"The tntematlonal Man of Mystery" Lynn vs. .lohn •sexual Chocolate" Tabls 
Sieve Mehl vs. Kevin "Boom iloom· Buccellato 
John "S;.i_usage King., Froman vs. Edward "El Papoose" Hernandez Ill 
155 Lb1. 
llave --rhe Rock" Murphy vs. Vince DeSaplo 
Robert "Forget About It" Vuolo vs. Nick "I'm a Big Meana• Rubino 
Nkk "The llunk" fonte vs Sieve Locher 
Paul ..He-Man" Mehan vs. 
Tom "Klller• Cronley 

________________________________.J 
Captains
Business &-Sp:iritualily 

continued from page 24 
"All duties of the club are han•
Do tLey m:ix'I 

died by [the captains]." The work of all the boxers throughout the year culmi•
Women Pastors of Michiana 

nates with the Bengal Bouts, a fundraiser for the Holy Cross missions in Bangladesh. The
Present 

club's monetary goal for this year is $50,000, about $10,000 more than last year's earn­
CLaDen9es and 

ings. "ln the course of the time I've been here, we've tripled
Opporl1m:ities of 

the amount we've given," said Gaffney. The club depends heavily on
Managing a Mimstry 

ticket sales and program ads 
Kaye Ferguson-Patton Mary Hubbard Regina Wilson Tina Velthiuzen 
160 Lb1. Mike "Lockdown" l.aOuke vs. Matt "Doctor Sin" McCullough 
Doniel Saraelno vs. Ray "Norman ~ates" Wicklander 
Joshua "Is My First Name, But My La.st Name Is" Klrley vs. Migual 'Doughboy" Tapia 
Juan "El Matador• Santucci vs. Jeff "The Brulsln Bohunk" Dobosh 
163 Lbs. Kevin Murphy vs. Brian "716 Hustler" Conley 
Sean "The Erle Kid" Nowak vs. Shane Luzzader 
BIiiy "Sweet Pea" McMurtrle vs. Dennis Lumbao 

Chns "The Unabomber" Uhart vs. Travis "fhe Only Time I Get 'Hit On' Is In The Ring" Alexander 
165 u,,. 
Tom 'Polly Pri•sy Pants· Biolchlnl vs. Doug Bartles 
Joe "The Krlpler" KJppels vs. Kurt "The Captain" l<urple 
Jell "The Stranfter" Welsh vs. Tony "The Wayne House of Pain" Polcarl 
Chris "The Alabama Slamma" Muro vs. Don "Juan the Destmyer" Penn 
170 lba. Alex "The Corn Cob Ktd" Kerrigan vs. Chris "The Ring Master" Matassa 
Bill "The fighting Archy" Ponko vs. Paul "Pepe Le Pew• Peterson 
llrlan Nestor vs. Mike !-'Honey" Hammes 
Erle "Canns Back" Hovan vs. Tom "The Wire" Dehmer 

Trenl "Kld Kokomo" Sandi fur vs. Michael "Woody" Wilson 
Joe "The Polish Tank" Czemlawski vs. "Gentle" Ben DIiion 
Stephen "The Berzerker" Bueche vs. Steve "The Ansel of Death" Pfetlfer 

180 Lba. Josh "Gaffney Who'l7" Thompson vs. Tom "Tommy Gun" Cullen 
WIiiie Kent vs. Chris "The Bruisln' Lugan" Valsnoras 
Zach Allen vs. Mark Crtnltl 
Bobby "I'm Not Dead Yet" Kennedy vs. Paul "You Better Recognize, Champ!" Chen 
185 Lbs. Brian "The Nutty Irishman" Galfney 'IS. John "Rambo" Norton 
Ben "Buster" Johnson vs. Josh "The Postman" Nelson 
James Qualters vs. Corey "I'll Make You.r Face Louk Uke Mine" Clay 
Tim "Pretty Fly For a White Guy" Christ vs. Mike "Guns Don't KIii People, I Kill People" Romanchek 
\911 Lbs. Dave "Bell•Vagas" Butz vs. Joe Larson 
Matt Turner vs. Dave "The Tank" Shenk 
Trevor Morris vs. Mike "ft Hurts More Than It Feels Good" Yellen 
Adam "'Monsoon" June Luke HPaesano" Brennan 
195 Lbo. Pele "Beat the Rap" Ryan Bye 
Chrls "Lucky" Luechtefeld vs. Zach "The l'ornstar" Schueller 
Kevin Jinks vs. Ale• Kent 
Greg "The Salvalinl" Joseph vs, 
Jason 4J-Rod" Rodriquez 
Hea~elght
John The Pltbull" Salvino vs. Sean "Gonna Rock You Like a Hurricane" Donnelly 
Mike "The Bishop" Romero vs. Kevin "Party Ball" McLean 
Pal "Why Am ISO Crazy" Downes vs. 
Greg "Rain Man" Yatorola 
Jelf "The Wallin' Episcopalian' Beam vs. Andy "Big Cat" Riederer. 
B 0 
u 
T s 

"I learned from the boxers
WHEN? WEDNESDAY FEBRUARY 24 
before me," Murphy said. "It's an oral teaching, and it works 
well that way, makes it more of a team thing, which it really is." 
WHERE? COBA ROOM 162 
TIME? 3:45-5:00 p.m. 
Gaffney emphasized his desire to contribute to the future success of the program. 
"I like the fact that as a
PRESENTED BY COBA DIVERSITY 

freshman I stood in awe and now I'm a senior and I know 
"" 

to reach their goal, and this year they also sent out an alumni letter to all of' Notre Dame's former boxers. 
St. Paul's United Methodist Church 

"We received over $10,000 in alumni donations because of
Central United Methodist Church 

that letter," said Will. "Boxers want to give back to the pro­
St. Joseph Church 

gram and back to our cause." 
Along with their fundraising duties, the captains organize the daily practices and are in charge of the fall semester's novice program. 
Church of the Holy Trinity 
I've given something of' myself to this amazing program," he said. 
The captains spend much time on their club dutios, which can make finding a bal­ance diflicult. 
"One of tho hardest things about being a captain is you have to find your own time to train," said Will. "I spend the majority of my time here help­ing [the young boxers] and leading practices. That's a major concern in picking cap­tains; they havo to be able to work out outside the sched• ulod practice times." 
Thn sonior captains choose four sophomores nar,h year to berome the next StHtson's junior captains, with the juniors moving into the senior positions. 
"Captains are chosen because they're guys who stand out," said Gaffney. 
"Guys who exhibit good lead­ership skills, good boxing skills, who don't just come to work out but really contribute to the program," he added. 
Boxing also provides lighters with a chance to test them­selves. 
"You get in there, you're by yourself, and there's no one to fall back on," Will said. "It makes you reach inside and see what you have." 
While the sport of boxing attracts many to the club. the captains know that Bengal Bouts means morn than that. 
..
"I don't come down hero to win a Bengal Bout or to fight," said Gaff'ney."This is a service project." 


~®@®@®~ #24 l\len's Tennis 
#9 Womens Basketball 
vs. 

vs. Iowa
Miami 

Wed. ltebn1ary24th 
Tues. Feb. 23 @ 7:00pm 

B at 3:oo pm E3
~@®@®@~ 


-SW 
THE 

page 20 0 BSERVER Monday, February 22, 1999 
¦ 125-P0UN0 TO 145-P0UN0 

Veterans and newcomers enter on equal footing 

By ALLISON KRILLA 
Associate Sports Editor 
As the opening bell sounds and tlH• first boxers emerge f'rom their corners tonight. vet­erans and newcomers alike will find themselves on equal foot­ing. 
The nervousness and anxiety won't subside until the first punches are thrown. But for one group of boxers. the knots in their stomachs will have to wait two more days to work them­selves out. 
The 125-pound weight class boasts only four lighters, each of whom received a tirst-round bye and will have to endure an 1wening outside the ring. 
"I was hoping to get [my first fight I over with," Kevin Overbeck said. The senior is also anxious to test the hand he injured in a sledding accident and find out if his stamina is up to par following a bout with the 
flu. 
Overbeck will square off with Rick Holcomb on Wednesday. 
"Since nobody in our weight class is fighting [tonight]. l don't think [the bye] will really be an advantage for anyone," said top­seeded Jason McMahon. The freshman will meet Marc Armini in semifinal action, following a night of observing his fellow boxing club members. 
'T)l definitely be watching the fights [tonight]. and hopefully get an idea of what it's like," McMahon said. "But nothing will compare to that night." 
Some of the first fights the spectators will see are in the 135-pound weight class. Here, top-seeded David Seerveld will be aiming for the title after falling to Jeremy Leatherby in the tinals last year. 
"In previous years, I'd feel guilty about winning because it might have been someone's last chance in the ring," Seerveld said. "But since I'm a senior, I don't need to feel guilty any­more." 
Besides Seerveld. familiar faces abound in the division. Dan Gallegos, Martin Garry and Camilo Rueda round out the vet­eran-laden weight class. 
"Last year, I was in the 130­pound weight class, but this year we only have 135," Gallegos said, "so a lot of the guys are the same ones I faced last year." 
Seerveld faces John Kakkanathu in the first round, while Gallegos will fight Matt Eberly. Garry squares off against Matt Eberly, and Rueda takes on Charles Madden. 
The 145-pound weight class boasts two premier boxers and boxing club officers. 
Senior Tommy Will and junior Mike Maguire begin their quest for the title. Will lost to Lucas Molina in an epic battle for the 135-pound crown in 1998, one of the most well-fought bouts of the evening. 
Maguire upset senior captain Sean Sharpe to take the 140­pound crown by split decision last year. Now both are primed for a difficult road to the finals in a new weight class. 
Standing in their way, howev­er, are some talented but inex­perienced boxers. Sophomore Zach Fulton meets the technical­ly sound Will in the first round, while Marc Tubav takes on the second-seeded Miguire tonight. 
Jim Shacklett and Ant Kemps and Phil Castrogiovanni and Dan Gonzalez round out the 145­pound card. Castrogiovanni, a law student, and Gonzalez, an undergraduate freshman, may provide one of the most enter­taining bouts of the early rounds. 


.,. 
• 
Bouts 
continued from page 24 
"I used to be mainly a brawler. going right at the other man," explained Butz. "I have been working with the coaches to help utilize my rearh. Long arms and greater extension give me an advantage over other boxers." 
The 195-pound weight class introduces a batch of newcomers to the Bengal Bouts. In a field with only one senior and no juniors, a sophomore has already emerged as a con­tender. 
Pete "Beat the Rap" Ryan looks to use his evasivf'. calculating style to best his oppo­nents. llowever. Ryan will have to wait until Wednesday night for his first test. He has a first-round bye. 
Another newcomer also looks to make waves in the bouts. Sophomore John "The Pitbull" Salvino is the favorite to take the heavyweight crown. At 215 pounds, he will need his quickness to outmaneuver oppo­nents. 
Salvino is a transfer student who looked to make an immediate contribution to Notre Dame athletics. 
"I wanted to be a part of Notre Dame ath­letic tradition," said Salvino. "When you're a part of Bengal Bouts, you're a part of the legend. You are a Notre Dame athlete." 
Veteran leadership should hold strong, especially in the 185-pound weight class. but look for some young upstarts to stake their claim at Bengal Bouts this week. Fights start at 5 p.m. Monday with the higher weights squaring off later in the evening. 

. • The Observer/Jell Hsu 
Junior captain Mike Romanchek is currently ranked second in the 185-pound weight division behind favored Brian Gaffney. 
w-= 
... 


¦ 150-POUND TO 163-POUND 
Journey to championship fights commence tonight 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ This yc11r is his last chancn and his Sports Editor draw might be the best he has seen. Cronlcy's opponent is Paul "lln-Man" 
This ynar's Bnngnl Bouts should bring Mohan. snvPral surprisns, just likn all tlrn past According to Murphy, Cronlny is a tournanwnts. sound box1ff and has hr.ight which could 
Tlw 150-pound division packs in loads bo an advantage. 111' talPnl and tlw championship is wide Many overlooked the strength of' Mike opnn. Last Y<'ar·s titl11 match pitted LaDuke as he did not make a strong run sPniors FrPd KPlly and Std'an Molina, but for the finals last y11ar. l.aDuke proved his with thn graduation of' llrn seniors, tho skill as ho dominated his finals opponent litlt\ is rip<\ l'or lhl\ pir.king, on his way to the title. Ile is a captain and 
This hrarknt pits a snasoned Bnngal entnrs tonight's fights with the top-rank­Bouts vnt1mm against a frnshman snnsa­ing in the l 60-pound weight class. tion . .Junior captain .I.IL Mellin enters "Ile has improved so much," Murphy tonight's light as tlw top-ranked boxnr in said about his fellow captain. "Hn has tlw I:ill-pound wnight class. come back from an injury." 
II' all gons acconling to plan, Mnllin Jeff "Tho Bruisin' Bohunk" Dobosh could mnnt f'rPshman Edward llnrnandnz appNll'S especially hungry in this division. in 111m or tlw Bouts' most anlicipatnd Dobosh wants nothing moru than to easi­matrhns. ly advance to thn finals for a rematch 
ll1irnandPz ranks second in the divi­with LaDuke, but 11rst he must gnt past sion. II!! Pllt.crs with a grPater advantage Juan "El Matador" Santucci. than most frnshnrnn because of his extnn­Hounding out the rest or this weight 
siv11 boxing background. class are Daninl Saracino who will light 
SPnior raptain Davn "Thn Hock" Hay "Norman Bates" Wicklander. Joshua Murphy hnacllirws thn 150-pound wnight "Is My First Name, But My Last Name Is" rlass. Murphy is participating in his Kirlny will take on Miguel "Doughboy" third llnngal Bouts and looks to build oil' Tapia. his finals appoarance last yoar in thn For top-ranked Kevin Murphy, this 145-pound weight class. year's Bouts is all about determination. 
With overy tournamnnt in which he ''I've been completely obsessed for the participatl's, Murphy gets stronger and last six weeks," Murphy said. has provnn hirnsnll' to Im a sulicl con­The law student has dedicated these 
tnnclnr. past couple of mont.hs to a strict training 
Sophornorn Vince D11Sapio will face rnginrn for this year's tournament. Murphy in llrn quarterfinals. Neither "I worked really really hard this year, lightor has a clear-cut knowlodgn ol' tho not just during thP season but in the ofT­
othnr from practicn, which could make season," Murphy said. 'Tm probably the for an an inlnrnsling fight. only No.1 seed who's never won." 
Look for Alexander to exploit his one Shane Luzzader and Billy McMurtrie,"I didn't spar him or soo him in action," Murphy will face sophomore Brian year of experience over Uhart, although who will take on Dennis Lumbao. 
Murphy said of' his first-round opponent. Conley in the quarterfinals. 
Uhart may have a few tricks up his sleeve The 163-pound wnight class is a prod­"I lrnard Im is a pretty sound boxnr." Seednd second in the bracket is Travis since most unexpected upsets come in uct of the numerous middle wnights inTom Cronley is seed11d second and "The Only Time I Get 'Hit On' Is In the the opening rounds. this year's lights. Murphy and Co. wantcould giv1i .\1urphy n serious run at tho Hing" i\l(1xander. The sophomore will Rounding out the rest of the competi­nothing more than to use this new divi­titln. Tho s1•nior is a vetnran but has suf­take on first-time fighter senior Chris tion are Sean Nowak, who will fight sion to their full advantage. 
l'nn•1I frnm tough bracknts in th,i past. "The Unabomber" Uhart. 
¦ 165-POUND TO 180-POUND 
Veterans and novices prepare to meet in quarterfinals 


By KERRY SMITH  and gain a victory on points.  will lake on snventh seed  
Sports Writer  "I'm going to go out and give  Stnphcn Bueche. Plielfor. conli­ 
it all I've got and try not to get  den t going into tonight's  
When competitors in the first  too worn down," said Kerrigan.  matchup, dropped weight this  
round of this year's Bengal  "But that can happen no mattnr  season and is counting on his  
Bouts enter the ring tonight, the  how hard you train."  long reach and height to gain a  
top sends will be looking to  Freshman Matassa admits his  bigger advantage.  
showcase their skills while the underdogs will bn looking for an  fighting inexperience but plans to rely on his long reach to stay  "I got all my inhibitions out last year," said Pf'iPl'f'er. "I'm  - 
upset.  alive in tho ring.  looking forward to the fight and  
The rnsults of' six weeks of  "I've never benn in an actual  am just going to take it one  
intensive training and prepara­ fight before," said Matassa. "But  round at a time."  
tion for the 69th annual boxing  the training has been great and  No. 3 seed Joe Czerniawski  
compntition will begin lo unfold  has gotten me in pretty good  will enter tlrn ring against sixth  
in the ring during the quarterfi­ shape. We'll see what happens."  seed Ben Dillon, whiln fifth seed  
nal round at the Joyce Center.  No. 2 seed and first-yr.ar  Trent Sandifur looks to upset  
In the 165-pound weight  boxer Tom Dehmer will match  fourth-snednd Michanl Wilson.  
class, top seed Tom Biolchini hopes to defend his 1998 cham­ up in the ring with seventh seed Eric Hovan. Hovan, a third year  In the 180-pound weight class No. 1 seed .Josh Thompson will  ..  
pionship title against eighth­ boxer, hopes to upset his senior  rely on his long reaching jabs to  
seeded Doug Rartles. Counting  opponent, but Dohmer plans on  gain a victory over oig-hth send  
on his nndurance and strong jab  using his height and reach to  Tom Cullen. Thompson was  
to combat Bartles' height  power him past the quartnrfinal  seeded filth last year and lost in  
advantage, Biolchini is confident  round. No. 3 and No. 6 seeds  the first round but is confident  
entering tonight's fight.  Brian Nestor and Mike Hammes  about this year's bouts.  
''I'm less nervous than last  will meet in the ring while  'Tm going to have to stay  
year because I know what to  freshmen Paul Peterson and Bill  strong and keep the jab work­ 
expect," said Biolchini. "I'm  Ponko will match up at the  ing, " said Thompson. "If I can  
feeling in shape and I got a lot  fourth and fifth spots.  do that I think I'll be able to  
more sparring in during train­ Top seed Brian Hobbins looks  control the fight. "  
ing than last year."  for a repeat first round victory  No. 2 senior Paul Chen will  
No. 2 seed Don Penn will  in the 175-pound weight class  meet sev<111th-s11nded freshman  
enter the ring against seventh  against eighth seed Michael  Bobby Kennedy in the ring and  
seed Chris Muro and No. 3 Jeff  Halloran. A hard puncher,  third-ranked Zach Al11in will  
Welsh will tako on No. 6 Tony  Hobbins is optimistic about  take on Mark Criniti. Fourth  
Polcari. Fifth seed Joe Kippels is  tonight's fight.  seed junior and first-time boxer  
looking for an upset in his  "I'm pretty confident," he  Chris Vaisnoras will face off  
match. Kipples plans to use his  said. ''Training has gone really  against fifth seed Willie Knnt to  
height and reach to try to over­ well and I'm feeling at my  round out the weight class.  
power No. 4 Kurt Kurple.  peak." Hobbins plans to estab­ Tlrn quarlBrlinals tonight will  
The 170-pound weight class  lish his jab early on and use his  bring togetlrnr experiencnd box­ 
has favorite A.lex Kerrigan  slight height advantage to  ers and l'irst tinrn fighters lo  
squaring off with eighth-ranked  advance over his junior com­ propel the most prepared lo the  
Chris Matassa. Kerrigan hnpes  petitor.  semilinal round on Wednesday  
to put his quick left jab to use  Steve Ptielfor, the No. 2 seed,  night.  




,-~::~:;:•: 
. 
·:~t~t"['f:t~.:~ 
'i-1.ir-' . 
,;~--}..-;~'';:~/;;· ~\:;rrij\.'%' ':i-·: ~ . 

HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
----------•w-----­
Monday, February 22, 1999 The Observer• TODAY page 23 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF ND DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

BILL AMEND 
... FooD.' GuPP1es THE F1SH f'ooD.' REPRoDUCE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS bad, relax and read a good book. You DAY: Drew Barrz:more, Edward are in the right lram,r;.of mind to Kennedy, Sybil Lee Michael Chang, learn. Listen lo anti observe others, Ryne Ouren. Julius Erving and you will pick up information Happy Birthday: You have a way that will benefit you in your own of convincing others to do things for situation. 00000 you. It's time to slart exercising thal LIBRA (Sepl. 23,0ct. 22): Real ability in order to get lhings done estate opportunities will surface if your way. Don't miss out because you ~ou are in a position to buy or sell. don't have enough faith in yourseU. ou can make changes to your home It's time to rt ready to makel/ur that will make your surroundings mark. Move orward with confi ence nicer and inflate the cost of your and you will find yourself in a leader­prorcrty. 000 " ship position. Your numbers: 5, 12, 24. COR.1'1O (Od i.JlNov. 21): Your 29, 34, 48 jealous tendency could cause your ARIES (March 21-April 19): Look mate to be untru~ul with you..You over work you have done and make must learn to control your reaction or sure that you're happy with it. Dis-get out of the relationship ii it is cuss your intentions and goals with causing that much anguish. ooo_ older family members who have the SAGITTARIUS ~Nov. 21-DU: rt): experience to best direct you. 000 Problems with relatives will surface if TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You you're involved iIJ financial ventures will be weepy if you don't get your with lhem. Try td avoid a scene by, way. You must control your moods if being honest and open'.about the situ-you don't wa11t to be left on your ation. Your hands are tied. 000 own, Don't let your friends or family CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-)an 19): cost you money. Losses are likely. Get into shak. You can joiri clubs that 000 will enab e you to lesl your GEMINI (Mad, 21-)une 20): Don't endurance and stamina. You need to make promises 1al you C3n't possi­~t out and enjoy the good company. bly kttp. Problems while traveling ental a;,d rhysical stimulation are will cause delac in your plans. It is amcst.00000 best to stay ca m. A lack of supporl AQUAlllUS (Jan. 20-F,b. 16): You and help can be expected. 000 ma{i have to do things that don't CANCER ,Oune 21-July 22): Rela­inc ude your mate today. You can tionships •[:,Pear to be changing. exrct changes in your routine that Don't lly lo old onto something that wi I lead you into foreign territory. is no longer good. Acceptance wiU be You can prr.<prr if you play your the best possible 11'action. It's tin-., to ,r;iuvl~ ri"ht nn 11,vv-: on to ~rut1 pastures. 0000 ~1:,1..r-. \tel'. !~·March 20J: Pas-LEO (Ju y 23--Aug, 22): You have sion is in order if~ou plan to spend a an unrealistic view of your personal ~uiet evening '\"i the one you love. situ;:'tion. Listen tu voJr r,nrlT,~ and ,..r. ·•".-Y "'~ th,-.,,suit if-ruu ~,"' II discover legitunate complamts. naver. t taken the necessary precau­ou can't fix problems unless you lions. Carelessness will lead to losses . understand them. 00 0000 VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Sit '  
;:=1m Ill OF INTEREST ,, N!'lwt.Gingricb will speak at Ste.pan Center on April 13, Tickets are on salfl now at the LaFortune Infomation Desk for $6. The event is sponsored by,$DB.  
Wanted: Strip cartoonists and one--panel cartoonists. Submit three to five examples of your work to Michelle Krupa at The Observer in the basement of SDH.  
February 24 Accountancy, Management and Administrative Science 



SCOTT ADAMS 

--__-:_-:_-:_-:__-:__-:__-:._-:._-:._-:._-:._-i_-:._-:._-:._-:__~-:._-,-~Er::::=:=============::::::7 0r,:::====:::::--,::_..::.-=-=-=-=-=-=~~, 
• DILBERT,  ME.ET OUR  ~  
NEW  SACRIFICIAL  ®  
LAr-'\13.  ~  

1 FILLED OUR HEAD-SHOULO I DON'T
c 
COUNT VA.CANCY 50 ~ WE $HAKE WANT TO WE l-\i\V£. 501"\E.ONE. TO ! HAN05? GET 


P-.l"TA.CHE.O. 

Answers to any lhree clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the lasl 50 years: 1·88A-7•ACR0SS. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 

1 Very visible point s Rough 
• Setup UP1tman H Pholographer 
Siskind 17 Full of hedges 11 Kind of airship 11 Like phrase 
bookentnes 20 Exercises 21 Uncertif1able? 22 Person with a 
J.D 23 Lorillard brand 24Tolerate 26 Do a slow burn 28 Bad move ulceberg 
alternative 
JSV-EDay celebrants H Not bought, perhaps 37 Enters quietly 
39 There may be a gap between them 
400ne-fiamed pop/R.&B. singer 
41 His last film was "Pocketful of Miracles" 
43 Fink 45 Cole Porter's "-LClown" 
441First­
50JayGould rail(Pad 51 Pet\onified 54 Zoologists' study 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

55 Sail al lhe America's Cup 56 Lands in water 57 One with big arms 58 They'll get you down 59 "Freaks" star Baclanova 60 Coastal raptors 
DOWN 
1 Intermission preceder 
2 Subjects of old Playboy pictorials 
3 Furbies, e.g., ,n 1998 4 Country yodeler -Britt 5 Title woman in a Beallessong &Whole 7 He played a twin in "Twins" a Kind of set 1 Fuad's 
• successor: Var. 10 Make a commotion 11 Valuable silver 
ore 
12 Mailroom device 
13 It may be living 
· ordead 34 Door word 15 Jerry Herman 38 Lifesavers musical producer 24 No-frills 
39 Adorning 25 Perennial 
42 Foreign
trouble spot 
correspondent, 21 Makes one perhaps 

44 Paper for a pad 46 Noled Joseph Wiseman role 47 Daffy 48 Doughnut? 
-
.. 


COME AND EAT LUNCH WITH MEMBERS OF YOUR COLLEGE 
Academic Pride Week will be held February 22-25 from 12 p.rn. to I p.m. each day in the Hospitality room next to All arc welcome so we hope to see you !here!! Sponsored by your Student Government' 
/ 
February 22 American Studies, Psychology, Anthropology 
February 23 l:conomics, Government and International Studies, East Asian Languages and 
\ 
I .iteratures, German and Russian Languages and Literatures 

¦ The hockey team ¦ Sheila McMillen and extended its losing the women's basketball streak to four after a team easily defeated rough weekend. West Virginia.
PORTS 
p.14 p.16 
O 
THE 

page24 -----------------------------------------Monday, February 22, 1999
BSERVER 
¦ MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Rainey shines in first start for Notre Dame 
By JOEY CAVATO Associate Sports Editor 
Paul Rainey is not used Lo getting a lot of attrntion. 
Growing up in a family with 15 broth­
ers and sisters will give 
you that kind of educa­
tion. 
After Notre Dame's 71-69 victory over West Virginia Sunday, every­body wanted to talk to 

• Rainey: teammates, 

fans. reporters, cam­eramen. 
In his first start since playing high school ball for Wonderview in Hattieville, where he averaged 23 points as a Si\nior, Rainey took the role of hero once more. 

With Martin Ingelsby slowed by an But this isn't a typical walk-on. ankle injury and Jimmy Dillon suspend­He stepped to the line without a ed, Rainey finally got his chance to shine. change of emotion and drained both 
The former walk-on shois like one would found himself at the expect from a 13-year­free throw line in a tie vetcran of the NBA .. 
'HE

game with 20 seconds LOVF.S TO PLAY •·· • Sinking the shots left on the clock. THIS IS A FlVE-STAR capped off a dramatic Irish comeback that he
Rainey has been sue-YOUNG MAN.' cessful one try in l 0 ignited with a steal. 
attempts from the "I just wanted to go charity strip during his JOHN MACLEOD in there and stay collegiate career. focused and do the 
MEN'S BASKETBALL HEAD COACH things I always do
The pressure to encl a three-game Irish losing when I go to the free-streak could rattle his throw line," Rai1rny knees. The emotion of two teams fighting said. "I've been through this before many for 40 minutes could take away his focus. times in high school. It's been a while 
It would be too much for a typical since high school but I can still recollect walk-on. having the same emotions and th0 same situation with the pressure on mn tu step up and win the game for the team.'' 
After coming to Notre Dame on an aca­demic scholarship five years ago, Rainey was asked to stay nnother year on a bas­ketball scholarship. 
Rainey came back to serve as captain and to join the University's new graduate program in accountancy. 
"The reason we wanted him back is he's such an example for our kids," head coach John Macleod said. "He loves to play -he's a great example for tlrnsc youngst0rs to learn from. This is a fiv0­star young man.'' 
Gem1ral Electric may not have known exactly what they had when they offered Rainey a job in financial management, 
see RI\INEY/ page 18 



The Observer/Jell Hsu 

-
Senior Dave "The Rock" Murphy and his fellow Bengal Bouts' captains have dedicated themselves to more than just the average daily workouts. 

.. 
Captains guide fellow fighters with determination 
By KATI MILLER Since the beginning of the school Sports Writer year, captains Tommy Will, Dave Murphy, Brian Gaffney and !\like 
Teaching young fightPrs the funda­LaDuke have been organizing this mentals of boxing is a tough job, and year's Bengal Bouts. for many this task would be time-con­"We're really in charge of all facets suming enough. of the club, from practical skills to 
For the senior captains of the men's teaching to advertising," said. Gaffney. boxing club, teaching novice fighters is just the beginning. see CAPTAINS/ page 19 
vs. Miami, vs. Iowa, 

Tuesday, 7 p.m. fvllli1 Men's and Women's 
SPORTS 

~~::;:y• Wednesday, 3 p.m. 
Swimming
/,.. 
at Big East Championships,
ATA 
~ 
--­

at St. John's, vs. Northern Michigan, Thursday -Saturday Wednesday, 8 p.m, ~ Friday, 7 p.m. 
-GLANCE 







