
¦ The Observer previews the Student Film Festival,
¦ The Nocre Dame women's basketball ream 
Thursday
which plays in the Snite this weekend. 
slam dunked Seton Hall last night, 87-47. 
JANUARY 21, 

Scene• 12
Sports • Back Page 
1999 
THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

VOL XXXII NO. 71 WWW. ND.EDU/~OBSERVER 
¦ STUDENT SENATE 


Senate forms committee to discuss Big Ten issues 



uro! 
By LAURA PETELLE 
Assistant News Editor 
;\s I<J<J<J clawnnd, a nPw fiscal nra bngan in l!uropo ~ and across thn globn -whnn I I nations merged their nirn•ncins to crmtt11 lhn Pliro. 
Al tl11\ strokn of midnight. f'inanc11 rninistPrs f'rnrn tlrn so-called euro-11 pop1md clwmpagn\1 corks shapml likn tlw nuro's symbol, cddirating as years of' pniparalion finally rnmn to fruition. 
The nuro replacns tlrn currnncios o(' Austria, Belgium. Finland, Francn, (;crmany, lrnland. Italy, Luxembourg. thn NnthPrlands, Portugal and Spain ­a group of nations now callnd the nuro 1.0110. Though notns and coins will not bn issund until 2002, som1) banks offer ()Uro accounts and all nxchanges on l•.uropnan stock mark11ts am now in 
('llrOS. 
"From l.ishon lo Ilelsinki. from Paris Lo Vi1rnna. tlrn nuro is a remarkable symbol of our common idHntity. Tomorrow I won1t Im any less French, hut wn will all be a little more fa1ropnan," said Frnnch Finance Ministnr Dominique Strauss-Kahn on the 1wn of tlw m1ro's introduction. 

._.,---:-Tho , eu~·o , ~ doesn l lly 
., solo until{·1 /:-~-,ex: .July I. 2002. ~.-;t1,J;p, , 1< wh<•n thH old , national cur­

-~ r C 11 C I C S 
\, · ''-· cease to f • .d·. '.) · be legal .-, tHndcr. ,, . -e~w: Until then,
', .. .......,1 
•' 


the ouro will exist alongsidc. the now­obsolde currencies it was created to replace: to copo with that transition pnriod, the Council of' Europe fixed the exchange rates of the participating cur­. rcn1·i11s against each other and lhe 
1iuro. 

Still, despite any euphoria among the 
ouro-11, news ol' the switch barnly 
spark1~d interest in most Americans. 
"People don't have euros in their 
porket yet; until then, it's just a little 
morn oxciting than the Federal Hcserve 
Board -but not much," said /\ndrew 
Gould, a professor of government in the 
Nanovic Ccntnr for European Studies at 
Notro Dame. 
But the curo, worth about $] .16 at 
ycstorday's rates, could pack a lot of 
punch. The dollar has traditionally 
been tho benchmark by which the 
valw~ ul' otlrnr currencies is measured: 
as 11 European currencies merge into 
a strongr,r whole, tho euro could give 
the dollar a run for its money. 
Gould said that probably will not hap­
pen "for a lung time," pointing out that 
the while the U.S. and euro-11 have 
roughly equal gross domestic products 
(GDP). the population of' the U.S. is 
smaller, resulting in a higher GDP per 
capita in the U.S. II' more nations 
attempt to join the euro and the EU, 
this gap will 
By TIM LOGAN 
Associate News Editor 
Discussing Big Ten membership, the April Board of Trustees report and the racial climate on campus, Student Senate leaders outlined their plans for the rest of tho sormister at Wednesday's meeting. 
The Senate recently formed an ad hoc committee to discuss Big Ten membership, to be chaired by Carroll SfH,ator Pat Foy. 
"This is obviously an issue of major concern across cam pus," Foy said, adding that at next week's meeting, the committee would likely produce a resolution opposing Big Ten member­ship for Notre Dame. 
"Our goal is to have it next week so that it can go on to the CLC meeting Feb. l, so that they can do something with it in time for the Board ol' Trustees meeting," Foy said. 
The Board of Trustees will meet in London on the first weekend of February and is expected to decide on the issue then. 
Senators discussed the University's racial climate in relation to several issues. 

Zahm senator S1Jencer Stel'ko sug­gested looking into the feasibility of Notre Dame officially recognizing Martin Luther King's birthday as a holiday. 
"I don't think that anybody here would dispute that we have a prob­lem with race on this campus," he said. "!Celebrating King's birthday! could be a legitimato first stnp [towards solving it!. I hope to take that up." 
The senate also passed a resolution providing $75 for dinners sponsornd by the Li>arning to Talk /\hout Hac11 Retreat. 
"This is a good way to bridge Lim gap with the problems going on with races here at Notre Danrn," said Dillon senator Jason Linster. 
Supporters hope those meals will increase communications across racial boundaries. 
"This will act at a grass-roots level to begin to get interaction between different groups," said Keough sena­tor Brian O'Donoghue. "We thought the best way to do this is through 
see SENATE / page 6 
Graphics by Cnstln Manary and Laura Petelle 

Above: Six of the euro bills and the face of the one euro coin. Below: The national obverses for the one-euro coin. Luxembourg has not yet released 
its design. 
increase. 
One place the euro may quickly over­take the dollar is on the black market. While dollars arc only available in denominations up to $100, the 500­euro bill makes it possible to carry larger amounts of cash in smaller suit­cases. 
Economists e!)timate that about 80 percent of U.S. currency in circulation is on the black market. The U.S. gov­ernment earns $28 billion a year on bills in circulation; ii' these bills became less popular and went out of circula­
Following World War II, European leaders saw a need to heal the divisions that twice this century draggnd tlrn world into bloody wars. 
In 1952, France, West Germany, Italy, Luxembourg and tlrn Netherlands formed thH Europ1ian Coal and Steel Community. Buoyed by its success, the six member nations signed the Treaty of Home in 195 7, which formed the economic coalition known today as the European Economic Community (EEC). 
At thH Paris summit in 1972, mcmb1ir states agreed to economic and mone­


Via Assccitired Press GraphicsNst 

page 2 
¦ INSIDE COLUMN 

The Mighty Fruity Muscle 

Pants  
Despite what others mav think of them, I gladly and proudly wear mv fruity muscle pants. As many have  C.R. "Teo" TIll  eodoro USrraror  

noticed while eating at South Dining Hall, many of the cooks wear a new uniform which includes the pants with a funky print of various fruits and other foodstuffs. I have hearcJ. the comments and read the opinions, from both students and SDH workers alike, for the past semester about how awful and silly these pants are, and that no one in their right mine! would wear them willingly. When I first saw them, I knew I had to get myself a pair. 
Being-a veteran student worker at the SDH. I was able to talk with some of the managers anrl. after some negotiations. finally obtain a sot of my very own SDH Fruitv Pants. Since I've worked at SDH for so long. I t'elt comfortable with my work environment. Wearing a pair of the fruity pants seemed to almost make my shifts close to utopia. 
Of course, there are others who would never be caught dt:\ad i.n these pants. Many believe that l am crazy for even publicly wearing them. 13ut to be honest, I prefer the fruity pants to anything that you could find in a J. Crew catalogue. Seriously, J. Crew stuff may be nice but they certainly do not have any article of clothing that has a cor­nucopia of fruits and grains printed on them. The pants have style. The pants have grace. 
Even back home, some of my friends took appreciation of my pants. They even asked me to wear them next time we got together. "Hey Teo, you got to wear those fruity mus­cle pants again!" Some of you may doubt that my friends have perfect fashion sense, but at least they don't wear J. Crew. Hey, even my grandmother said that she liked my pants. "Hey Kristopear. I see your pants. Dhey are very nice; dhey have many fruits on dhem!" Now who would doubt the words of a Filipino grandmother'? If my Lola loves them, then they got to be cool! 
But what else do these fruity muscle pants have to offer other than pleasure aesthetic value. I have one word: comfort. These pants are one of the most comfortable things you can wear. Nothing comes close unless you wear wearing nothing at all, though your pajamas could come in for a tie. If you ask anyone who has worn them, they will agree that, despite the funky fruit prints, the pants are easy to wear. 
Now I'm sure that many of you are still unconvinced that these fruity pants are for you. Some may even take offense at my bashing of J. Crew. Okay, J. Crew isn't all that bad (even though I would never be caught dead wearing the clothes). But one cannot deny the power of the pants. You can say they are silly. You can say they are weird. You can even say that they are degrading. Nonetheless, I wear these pants. I proudly wear my SDH Fruity Muscle Pants with honor and virtue. And no one's going to tell me otherwise. Hey, would you seri­ously want to mess with someone who wears fruity muscle pants? (A certain ex­Navy Seal/Governor of Minnesota wore a pink boa at one time... ) 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

News  Scene  
Laura Pecelle  Laube! Cruz  
Tom Enright  Graphics  
Sports  C:risrin Manary  
Bill Han  Production  
Viewpoint  Kerry Smi£h  
Mary Margaret Nussbaum  Lab Tech  
Liz Lang  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacJ.rion periods. The Observer is a member of rhe AsM.1cl11tcd Press. AU n:produci:ion righcs: are reserved. 

NEW HAVEN, Conn. 
The lawyers of a New Haven man accused of assaulting his neighbor with a medieval ax are expected to argue that Lyme disease made him do it. 
Whatever the verdict in Michael Griffin's upcoming trial, a new drug may makn his dnfonsn strat!'!gy obso­lete. 
On Dec. 26, the J:-iood and Drug Administration approved LYMErix, the first Lyme disease vaccine ever sold. Researchers at the Yale School of Medicine developed the drug, and SmithKlineBeecham Biologicals has al.ready begun marketing the vaccine. 
The clinical trials that evaluated LYMErix from 1994 to 1997 involved 10,936 individuals from 1.5 to 70 years of age and from 31 sites. Tests demonstrated that the drug was 78 percent effective in treating definite Lyme disease and 100 percent effec­

YSM has be1m involved in combat­ing Lyme disease since 1975 when Professor Stephen Malawista first identified the disease after concerned Connecticut mothers reported that their children's joint swelling came 
The Observer• INSIDE Thursday, January 21. 1999 

utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Yale University vaccine may eliminate Lyme disease 
from some infectious agent. At that concentrated in any particular geo­time, Yale doctors found what has graphic region, as cases have been become a well-known, serious multi­reported in 48 states. staged bacterial infection. Over 99,000 Americans reported 
Symptoms include joint swelling, incidents of Lyme disease between rashes, and heart abnormalities, but 1982 and1996. 
none of tlrnse symptoms need appoar for the disease to be present. 
Some psychiatrists say the disease may removo inhibitions otherwise objectionable behavior in certain suf­ferers. Lyme disease responds to antibiotics if diagnosed early enough. but because the symptoms are char­acteristic of a number of different ill­nesses. early diagnoses are often diffi­cult to make. 
Today, SmithKline's television spots for LYMErix feature a concerned mother. 13ut, the spokeswoman for the company promptly reveals that she, not her children, is afflicted with the disease. Indeed, Lyme disease knows no age boundaries, nor is it 
Atlanta 68 52 Columbus 57 39 Indianapolis 55 42 Baltimore 53 37 Dallas 69 52 Los Angeles 63 58 Baton Rouge 77 63 Denver 41 25 Miami 81 67 Chicago 43 35 Honolulu 81 68 New York 48 35 
¦ lhJIVERSlTY (ff SournrnN CAUfOR!\!!A  ¦ UN!VERS!iY OF PENNSYLVAfJ!A  
Fraternity accused of hazing  Research team makes genetics advance  
LOS ANGELES, Calif.  PHILADELPHIA. Penn.  
The Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity is facing hazing charges  Today, most medicines are made by big pharmaceutical  
stemming from a Jan. 8 incident in which 15 of the fraterni­ companies with large staffs and vast resources. But one day  
ty's pledges were found behind the house with hands tied  soon, according to experts, that same medicine might be  
behind their backs and ropes around their necks,  produced in the human body using its own genetic make­ 
Department of Public Safety officers said. If a review con­ up. A study published in this month's edition of the journal  
ducted by the Office of Student Conduct finds the incident to  Science by researchers from the University of Pennsylvania  
be hazing, the fraternity could face sanctions. Sandra  Health System is moving that day closer. The study's  
Rhoten, assistant dean for the Office of Student Conduct,  research team, led by Molecular and Cellular Engineering  
was unavailable for comment. Hazing is a felony under the  Department Ch'airperson James Wilson, found a way to reg­ 
California Penal Code, but criminal charges will not be  ulate the amo_unt of medicine created by the body. Once the  
pressed, DPS Deputy Chief Bob Taylor said. The fraternity's  technique of gene therapy is perfected, doctors will be able  
president, John Moshy, disputes DPS' interpretation of the  to inject a gene into someone's body, which would then cre­ 
event. "I wasn't there that night," said Moshy, a junior  ate the medicine at will. Until now, scientists have been  
majoring in business, "But I can guarantee you that no  unable to turn the medicine-production mechanisms  "off"  
active would put a pledge in that situation, and that no  after inserting the gene. ·wilson's experiment turned the  
pledge would allow himself to be put in that situation." The  switch off in rhesus rhonkeys - raising hope that it could  
activities of the house that night were part of an initiation  also be used in humans after scientists complete work on  
ritual, and not hazing, Moshy said.  the solutions to a few problems.  
¦ UNlVEBS!TY OF Fu:rnmA  ¦ M!CH!GAN STATE UN!VERS!TY  
Glitch swells students' bank accounts  Fraternity resumes after investigation  
GAINESVILLE, Fla.  EAST LANSING, Mich.  
When Amanda Sinclair withdrew money from the ATM  MSU's Psi Upsilon fraternity is back on its feet more than  
over the weekend, she was pleasantly surprised by what  a month after being forced to reorganize amid allegations  
she saw on the receipt - extra money that had been  that a guest at its house was given the "date-rape" drug  
directly deposited into her account. "I thought 'Wow, l  · Rohypnol. The reorganization process ended Dec. 11 as fra­ 
have extra money to spend,"' said Sinclair, a freshman.  ternity members were readmitted after signing a good  
"But later, I thought I better not do anything because it's  behavior agreement and passing individual interviews with  
not mine and someone must have made a mistake." The  investigators from Psi Upsilon's International Office. The  
mistake was a computer error that has left more than two  agreement included pledging not to allow drug use or  
dozen UF students with extra financial aid money in their  underage drinking in the house. "I was impressed with how  
accounts, some of them receiving as much as $1,200 more  seriously they took the process," International Office execu­ 
than usual. "It was a computer error," said UF assistant  tive director Mark Williams said. "The chapter embraced a  
controller Ruth Harris. As of Tuesday evening, Harris did  number of topics that weren't even on our list. This is just  
not have figures  on  exactly how many students were  from guys talking about what they wanted to see in the  
affected or how much extra money was distributed. But  chapter." Those topics included increasing community ser­ 
two dozen students reported an increase to the Alligator.  vice and looking into more responsible social possibilities  
Harris said the extra funds will be reversed out of students'  such as off-site parties, Williams said. "It is a commitment,"  
accounts this week.  he said. "There's no room for error anymore."  

¦ Sourn BEND WEATHER ¦ Ntrm:muu. WEATHER 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Jan. 21.
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

AccuWea.ther® forecast _for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
® 
FRONTS: 

....--.-..&...a.. ~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
@'"""'© . GZl D:IJ D ~ . 0 ~~ •}).;,, 
High Low Shower• Ratn T~atorme FJur~e~~ ~unny ~-Cloudy Cloudy 
Via Associated Press 


... ...------------------------------------...-------------------~--------~---­
Thursday, January 21, 1999 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Ryan: Investment in women will help world development 
By ERICA THESING Assin,1m News Editor 
A ha1-iic investment in wo1111~n will help solvn inwrna­tional prohl!nns such as povor­ty and d1•vnlopmn11t issues, according to tlHwlogy profos­sor Maura Hyan. 
Hyan, sptiaking lo Urn rnsi­dnnts of' I.Pwis flail Wcd111isday nighl. r!xplai1wd that thn 1>mpownrmont and nduration of women allows thr:m tn hnlp oVl)l'Conw those problems in thnir own nations. 
Hyan nxplaincd that two i11tPrn11liottal cm1for1!11cns, a conf'Pr!'rl!'o on poplllation and d1welopnwnl in Cairo and the lntnrnatinnul Confcr,rncfl on Womrrn in Btlijing, affirmed that wom11n's issues nrwd to 
Im acldrnssml. 
"!During the confnrnnces] you had a IJasic a~rncment on w om 1'11 • s "d u c at io n . " Hy a n said. "That alone gives you inroads into tlrn problems of pov,1:,tY Wl' 0 rc talking about hem. 
TtH1sc conforcnccs were~ the lirsl of Lhnir kind in which all participating nations signed llw document at the end of the meetings. Although not all portions of the document were ratified bv all tlrn nations, Hyan said. ·it was a step in the right direction. 
'"!'hoy.. were ro_ally}~·atnrshod ev<•nts, slrn s,ud. I lrny rep­resentml a really hopuf'ul and almost stunning shift." 
'you HAD A BASIC 
AGREEMENT ON 
WOMEN'S EDUCATION. THAT 
ALONE GIVES YOU INROADS 
INTO THE PROBLEMS OF 
POVERTY WE'RE TALKING 
ABOVT HERE.' 

MAl!llil RrAN 
l'!IOF!J'.~'S(!lf OF 71/EOLOGY 
Ryan noted that cultural and rnligious barriers made it dif­fi cu It to roach a consensus among tho nations. 
She gave the 11x11 rnple of family planning, which has led to arguments between nations over whether contraception and abnrtion should be man­dated. 
Hyan said that because Islamic nations and Vatican roprosentalivcs opposed con­traception and abortion, the Cairo conforcnrc allowed for such differences in beliefs. 
"In the Cairo document, you finally had recognition that something li_ke family planning has to be devetopl'd in the cul­lur,t! and religious settings," she said. 
Hyan also said that many olher nations were skeptical of American agendas at the con­ferences. 
"One thing I've noticed is that there is a big l'ear and an undcrslandable !'car that when Americans enter the room, they are going to impose their ideas on every­one else," she said. 
llistorically, Americans have identified problems in other nations and created a solution for those problems without consulting the people involved. Thore is now a shift away from that, Ryan said. 
Ryan also expressed concern over "quick fix" solutions, especially in areas of popula­tion control, that end up caus­ing more harm than good. 

Leaming about yourgelf, dealing with problems, and growing with tf1e changes in your life are impor1ant _parts ot the Notre Dame •xperience.The Professional Slaff of the University Counseling Center (UCC)invite you to consider joining a group 

SPRING 

AFRICAN-AMERICAN SUPPORT GROUP 
Tois weekly confidential group is designed lo provide a supportive erMronment where Atrlcan-Amerloan students can discuss topics such as: Academic skins. college adjustment.relationship concerns, loneliness, Interpersonal skills, stress management, "If-esteem, and racial issues. Members may benefit from participation in the group by gaining 50lf­awarenHs, realizing that others are supportive of lheir CQncems, and learning from group members. 
WEDNESDAYS. 4:00 -5:15 p.m. 
GRADUATE THERAPY GROUP 
Tl'lis confidential group i$ designed for graduate students who would like to ex:plore how long standing patterns are impacting their fives and who wan! to learn to move ah•ad with &elf-understanding and Qr6aler confidtnce. his also for Individuals who have experienced relationship d1f!icult1es or loss and are looking for $Upport and stra1egies 1or coping and personal growth. Sfvdents experiencing adjustment to graduatt school concerns are also likely to benefit from thi.s group. 
Time to be decided b11ed on ltudent Interest and thGlr tchtdul... 
GROWING UP IN CH.AO$ GROUP 
This confidential therapy group is for individual$ who grew up tn homes where chronlo Illness, rnerrtel mness, ebuse, extreme poverty, edcliciions or unuJual fe.mlty drcumstances had a negative Impact. Members will have an opportunity to explore how those dynem1cs nave effectao their sell-esteem, relat10nst11ps with others and current life situation. 
Time to be dacldad bas.ed on studon1 
Interest and their schedl.lles. 
IIOR INFORMATlO AND HELP IN OICl910NS ABOUT GROUP' PARTIC:ll'ATIOH, CALL. '31-7331 0" 6lOP SY , lhOQ•5:00 P,M,, AT 
THI! UNIVERSITY COUNSEUNO CENTER (UCC), 
HID FLOOR OF THI UNIVERSITY HEALTH S&RVIC!aS BUILDING. 

1999 
PERSONAL GROWTH GROUP(S) 
This weekly o;,nfidentie.J group is_ for ~tudent! who want to improve their relat1onsh1ps wilt fellow students, friends and families; and woulc lik• 1he opportunity to discover new ways o· coping with difficult issues wilh the support o· other students. Group members will also learr to oommunlcat• th•ir needs more effectively, 
MONDAYS, 4:00 · 5:15 p.m. "Another group wllf be .irranged at a different time b11ed on etudent lnterfft and their echedulea. 
PRISM: SUPPORT GROUP FOR GAY, LESBIAN, BISEXUAL AND QUESTIONING STUDENTS 
This weeKIY support group wlll provi_da a confidential, affirming plaoe for you to. d1s~ss your concems on Issues such as re1at1onsh1ps, family and peer reactions; social support, decisions about coming out and bemg out, future lifestyle transitions, ecademic and career deivisiQn making, and overall personal growth.For more Information call Wendy Settle, Ph.D. 
MONDAYS. 3:30 • 4:45 p.m. 
RACE RELATIONS: WHAT'S YOUR VIEW? 
Healing, harmony, and tfnily between ra(:ial groups occur as we interact more with, become more awere about, and become b8tter educated about one 11nother. This 5 session confidential group is designed for individuals of different racial backgrounds to come together to gain more sensitivity, awareness, and knowledge about the history, values. experiences. and lifestyles of different re.clal groups. It's a cause for celebration When we are wtlllng to tal<e risks regarding our multicultural growth. Challenge yourself to u11loek. your endless capacity for racial awareness. Ifs up to you to do your part In creating a society whore there is greatef understanding and awar1mess between different racial groupj 
TUESDAYS, 4:00-5:15 p.m. 

¦ CLARIFICATION 
A timeUne in Monday's Observer listed Jan. 15, 1929, ns 
. rhfl birtbdl'ty of MichMl Luttrnr King, Jr. Though ho is now known as Martin Luther King, Jr., he was born Michatil, the namesake of his father, Baptist minister Michael Luther King. 

¦ CORRECTION 
That same timeline in Monday's edition incorrectly report• ed details of Dr. King's education. It should have stated that in 1951, he graduated with a B.D. from Crozor Theological Seminary in Chester, Penn. 
ThfrOb.'leroer regrets the error. 

New associate dean of grad studies nam.ed 
Special lO The Observer 
Janice Poorman has been promoted to associate dean for graduate studies and research at Notre Dame, according to James Merz. vice president for graduate studies and resoarch. 
As an assistant dean siuce 1993, Poorman has played a principal role in the design and implementation of the graduate school's comprehensive pro­gram of initiatives for the recruitment and retention of students from underrepresent­ed American ethnic and racial groups. 
Poorman's initiatives have led to a 240-percent increase in the number of entering minority graduate students at Notre Dame and have received recognition for excellence in minority recruitment from the Council of Graduate Schools and the National Association of Graduate Admissions. 
In her new position, Poorman will continue to coordinate pro­grams to enhance diversity while also joining with associ­ate dean Terrence Akai in directing the graduate school's broader recruitment and mar­keting efforts. 
"Jan's promotion is evidence both of my confidence in her proven leadership in the area of graduate recruitment and oJ' our ongoing commitment to enhancing Notre Dame's prominence as a premier grad­uate institution," said Merz. 
Before coming to Notre Dame in 1987 to pursue her own graduate degrees in theology, Poorman earned a bachelor's degree from Southern Illinois University and worked for 10 years as a high school teacher and administrator at Catholic schools in Illinois. At Notre Dame, she served from 1987­90 as an assistant rector and rector. 
She earned her master's degr1111 in 1988 and her doctor­ate in 1993, passing the doctor­al candidacy examinations wilh highest distinction. 
Poorman, who holds a con­current appointment in the the­ology department, teaches an undergraduate course titled "Mysteries of Christian Faith" and is designing a new summer course that will prepare gradu­ate students to teach theology in high schools. 
She also teaches graduate students in Notre Dame's new Master of Education Program and assisted in the design of a course to help participants in the University's Alliance for Catholic Education integrate the professional, communal and spiritual dimensions of their lives. 
Poorman contributed 20 entries to the Encyclopedia of Catholicism (HarperCollins, 1985) and has made scholarly· presentations to the American Academy of Religion and the Catholic Theological Society of America. 
Her article, "A Commitment to Diversity and Equity: The University of Notre Dame's Comprehensive Program for the Hecruitment and Hetention of Minority Graduate Students," was published by the Council of Graduate Schools. 
Poorman serves on Notre Dame's Cultural Diversity Committee and chairs its sub­committee on recruitment and retention. 




page4 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, January 21, 1999 
Euro 

continued from page 1 
Maastricht Trnaty set the stage for a common currency and a European Central Bank. Eleven mf!mbus of' the 15-member European Union eleclcd to join the euro. 
"If the postwar era ended nine years ago with the fall of tlrn Herlin Wall. then our future begins on Jan. 1. 1999," wrote German Chancellor Gerhard Schrueder in the Handelsblatt business daily. 

Of the remaining four mem­bers of the European Union ­Denmark, Greecfl, Sweden and the United Kingdom -Greere alone has not yet met the crite­ria. Denmark, Sweden and the United Kingdom all chose not to join the euro at this stage. 
THE Ellll() 
The symbol for tlrn euro is a curved "e" with two horizontal parallel lines. The EU press release says that "it was inspired by the Greek letter epsilon, in reference to the cra­dle of European civilization and to the first letter of' the word 'Europe.' The parallel lines rep­resent the stability of the euro." 
The official abbreviation for the euro is EUH. 
The euro will be issued in eight coin denominations and seven note denominations. 

The notes ,viii be different colors and sizes and issued in denominations of 500, 200, 100, 50, 20, 10 and 5 euros. The designs feature windows and gateways on the front, symbolizing openness and cooperation, and bridges on the back, symbolizing communica­tion. All of the architecture fea­tured in the designs is imagi­nary. 
Coins will be issued in two and one euros, then in SO-, 20-, ten-, five-. two-and one-cent denominations. The face of each coin will feature a map of Europe, some with and some without frontiers. The obverse of the coins will foature nation­al designs by each of the 11 euro nations. 
BENEFITS AND HURDLES 
If it succeeds, the euro will 

BOOK SEARCH 
• Used, rare and out-of-print 
books  
• Initial cost of $.Z.O(! Q Nationafiy • circulated ad • Success rate of 50% • Time Required: 2 months  lj: fli ~  
ERASMUS BOOKS  
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444  


provide powerful br,neflts for the euro-11. By creating the world's largest single market, the eu ro-11 will be giving a large incentive io multinational rorporations who can reach a huge market while avoiding expensive currency exrhanges and tariffs. 
It purports to help out con­sumers by making price com­parison easier across the EU (and hopefully bringing those prices closer together) and low­ering prices by increasing com­petition· in the euro zone. Tourists will also be saved the cost high costs of exchanging currencies in Europe. 
And the europhiles can already poini lo one big suc­cess: While global markets have been hit hard in the past year, Europe has been a safe haven. 
"Investors are likelv to view the euro as a haYen dr stability in world economic problem times," Gould agrec>d. 
Another intended result of this economic and monetary union (EMU) is the advent of a stable economic environment, ideally leading to low inflation and !ow interest rates. 
But many have their doubts about the euro's success. To be sure, it is an elite project: Only 66 percent of vuters in the euro zono support EMU, according to The Economist. In Germany, a crucial EMU country, only 51 percent of voters support the plan. 
The relatively lower mobility of' workers in the EU (as com­pared to the U.S.) could offset the benefits of a common cur­rency, according to Gould. 
While there are regional recessions in the U.S., they are not as large as they might be in the EU where there are stronger boundaries between different regions. And when there is a recession in Michigan, residents can easily move to Indiana. A Frenchman would have a much more diffi­cult time moving to Germany, if only because of the language gap. 
Furthermore, the European Central Bank IECB) is not accountable to any national or European government. The EU is a largely undemocratic insti­tution in any case, with very lit­tle direct representation. An unaccountable ECB only makes this "democratic deficit" larger. 
TIIE FUTURE 
The euro passes another mark when coins and notes are introduced in 2002. If the cur­rency is a success, europhiles will begin pushing for further integration. Ministers are already saying that currency union needs to be quickly fol­lowed up with closer cooperu­li ou in foreign affairs and defense. 
However, discussions about closer political union will f'uel enro-skeptic fears in other countries, like the United Kingdom, that have stayed out of EMU because of fears of loss of national independence. 
"Britain must stay clear of this great fiasco," Teddy Taylor, a member of the British opposition Conservative Party, was quoted as saying in an Associated Press story. 
But Gould disagrees that fur­ther political integration is an inevitable outcome. "Monetary union was designed for political and economic objectives. If these objectives are met, it's not obvious that further changes must follow." 
The Associated Press con­tributed to this story. 

CLASS OF 1999... 
LAST WEEK 1200 PACKED HEARTLAND 
FOR THE BIGGEST 
COLLEGE NIGHT THURSDAY EVER. 




TONIGHT 
WE



BREAK 
THE

RECORD 
(AND, OH YEAH, WE'RE GONNA GNEAWAY A SNOWBOARD) 
Kick-off the weekend 
early at South Bend's 
BIGGEST PARTY 
99c SPECIALS .--~. /~-~-99c COVER
{~ ,.. ,i 
with Student I.D. 

1~, ·i . ., ~ 222 S. MICHIGAN 
SOUTH BEND • (219) 234-5200 
Fixed Exchange Rate: 1Euro = 
40.3 Belgian Francs 
1.96 Deutsch Marks 
166.4 Spanish Pesetas 1936.21 Italian lire 
40.3 luxembourg Francs 
2.2 Netherlands Guilders 
13.1 Austrian Schillings 
200.4 Ponuuuese Escudos 
5.9 
Finnish Markkas 

6.6 
French Francs 


0.19 Irish Pounds 
GET IN THE 

THICK 
OF IT. 

Conveniently located in the heart of 
downtown South Bend, Old Chicago 
Steakhouse has the hottest grill in town, 
serving up a NEW MENU of juicy USDA 
prime filet mign6ns, t-bones, and ribeyes 
(as well chicken, burgers and salads, roo) . 
See why steaks are our consuming passion. 
222 S. MICHIGAN• SOUTH BEND (219) 234-5200 

Thursday, January 21, 1999 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 

¦ WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Former Argentine president Reynaldo Bignone arrested 
BUENOS /\!HES. Argentina 

Argt\nlina's last military µrcsidenl was arrestc:rl Wndnnsday as part <>f ong11ing investigations into child kidnappings during tho country's so-Galled "dirty war." /\ fod1~ral judg,, orckred Heynaldo Bignone nrrnslcd after a thrne-hour court appear­ance. Bigncnrn, who rnluruc,d Argenlinn lo r:ivilian rule in 198]. was questioned ahout allegations lhal children <>I' slain dissidents were handnd ovnr to mnmbers of the mili­tary, who later rais<1d them. lte is tho ninth former military leader arrested in comrnc­tion with two child kidnapping cases. An Argm1tino government report says at least 9,000 ptwpl(1 disapp111irnd during Urn 1976­in military dictatorship and are prnsumfld d1!ad. I lumu.n rights groups put Lhe figurn al :H>.000. The groups say they have identilied mort• than 200 c:asm, of' "baby disappear­ancus." 
Police seize rabid dog meat 
MANILA. Philippinns 

Police in the Philippines have seized 880 pounds of dog meat -possibly from rabid animals -that was apparnntly dnstined !'or rnstaurants in Manila. Supcrint11ndent Wcisley Harayoga said tlw meat, containnd in stw1iral boxes and prnserved by ice, was l'ound !all! last wc"1ek at a pi11r in Estancia in nrntral lloilo provinc:P, 270 miles south of Manila. Ol'licials were concerned that tlrn mnat could be infected with rabies, which has been a problem in lloilo, and buried the seized meat in a vacant lot. The Philippines outlawed the killing of pets for food under an animal welfare act enacted last year. Violators can be punished by up to two years in prison. 1lowever, dog meat continues to be popular among Filipinos, especially in. Manila and on the main island of Luzon, whern some belinve it is an aphrodisiac. 
Escapee pleads guilty 
MAHTINSVILtE, Va. 

Nearly 25 ym1rs after he fled a Virginia jail work crew, Alfred Odell Martin Ill pleaded guilty W11dnesday lo escaping from his one­year term for selling $10 worth of marijua­na. Martin. 4'J. who built a respectable life in Michigan, facns up to livu years in prison at his February sentnncing, but his family is hoping for probation. The case prosecutor said she would not push for jail timu for Marlin. who returned to Virginia in December and is currently serving out his one-ytmr drug term. Martin had served less than two days of his sentence when he left a Martinsville jail work crew in February 1974. lie married and settled in the Detroit suburb of Livonia whern he raised three chil­dren and worked for a mortgage company. 

Composite 
Volume: 1,104,481,110 
VOLUME LEADERS 

l 0\11"\N)  l'lfKLk  ::i Cll \NUl  UiAl':i  1·a1ct  
M1,·hN1U l'1trp  M~fT  -..4 -~'  .-71i'IUJ  16!.6.!5<1  
l'tcil(.'•tiilptih.'f J'h1hpM11m.. c f',1mp:14 0 ..11pult.'l Sun M1.:r,...~,.1.:111  nliU. MO ("!'CJSUNW  +.UOI -4,:\:'i -1.lll +tJ.f~  +-.1110'' -U12, •,'1-!~U +tl.llob:!\  K~.Jll~O -UI ,110110 .a~ !:auno ln:-1.J?~l  
h•~-n'° '""' l'1'Co Sy•ll'ltl\  )(('IT C.iCO  ·12.lti -.14  -l.1.J7,,.1 -.J.,UU  Wt.(1]."1110 IIIC'l l!~O  
Ml'I W1,dlkun1 l11o1.  WCOM  ....1u2  -foil:!~00  77..m<Klill  
Tt'I ,.,.ilt"H111.'·t\ Ci11~111uw,m:  TI;{\TI\t:PW.._  +;\0.'JIJ .,,..w  +!lflll7~ -IJ C1K15  VJUt,H "l.l1.'i0il  

¦ GUATEMALA 

ASSOCIATED PRESS the January 1998 attack, Another suspect, Rony planned to testify at the are accused of forcing a Leonel Polanco Sil, 25, tes­trial, which is expected to ESCUINTLA bus carrying 13 students tified he was home with his last one and a half weeks. 
Two men, accused of rap­and three faculty members family when the rapes Three of the students are ing a group of American from Maryland's St. Mary's occurred. recent graduates of St. college students in College to stop at gunpoint, The third suspect, Reyes Mary's and the fourth is Guatemala last year told a robbing the passengers, Buch Ventura, 25, was still enrolled. court Wednesday they had and raping five women in a arrested near his home A professor who was in nothing to do with the sugar cane field near this outside Guatemala City the bus during the attack, crime. southern Guatemalan when he was spotted near William Cecil Hoberts, also 
A third suspecl declined town. a pickup truck believed to was expected to testify. to testify, but a three-judge They face up to 30 years have been used by the Accompanying the vic­panel heard a statement he in prison if convicted. attackers. tims to the trial were gave police after his arrest, One suspect, Cosbi He was carrying 8,000 Maryland Deputy Attorney in which he also denied Gamaliel lJrias Ortiz, 37, quetzales -then about General Carmen Shepard, involvement. who was arrested near the $1,230. He told police he who is acting as a legal 
One of the live rape vic­crime scene, said he had had nothing to do with the adviser, and college offi­tims took the stand been traveling through the attack and had earned the cials. Wednesday morning. The area on a bus, had stom­money selling wool hats. The study-abroad pro­court was closed to the ach pains, and asked the Arrest warrants have gram at St. Mary's College public and the media driver to stop so he could been issued for five other remains largely unchanged beforehand. relieve himself. suspects who remain at after the attack, college 
The three men. charged The bus left without him, large. spokeswoman Stacy Pruitt with rape and robbery in he said. Four of the rape victims said.
.. 

Iraqi opposition group rejects U.S. 
ASSOCIATED PRESS . ''We don't get support under this organization of Kurdish, Shiite and .... l!-Ct," ~aid F!8:rrd!i ~l-Ba.yati, the ctmn• leftist groups based in London ­CAIJJQ, Egypt :.t;ll~s repre~enti:l,tiY~,jn London. "We·• welcomed its nominal.ion for U.S. 
A prominent lraql opposition haven't askodfor·'it; and nobody took support. group on Wednesday turned down , ou:r opinion a.hoµt it/' Maad Abdel-Rahim, a leader of the support offered by President Clinton Al-Bayaii added that "receiving Iraqi National Accord, said in a tele• for offorts to oust Iraqi leader such support from America would phone interview from Amman that Saddam Hussein, saying accepting . harm tho opposition's reputation hL., group accepts "any support from American help would hurt their inside Iraq." the international community and the cause. .··· .··•· ...···.·.... ··. . ···•······•· _Clirll61} ~m :J'Uosdaydesignatod big powers which believe that the 
However, two other groups ,....,the~7!'l)wen ors8,njr~jiSt4JJ,1S opposed to cbange of the regime should come London-headquartered lrn.qi' ·,saddt\m<to·re~e:tve U.S. support from inside Iraq."' 
National  Congress  and  the  under the 1998: act; which calls for  Other groups named to receive  
Jordanian-based Iraqi National  providing up to $97 million in overt  U.S. support were three Kurdish tac­ 
.Accord -welcomed. the American offer, which stems from the Iraq  military aid. tQ 1raqi opposition groups. The Supreme Council for  tions based in northern Iraq: the Kurdistan Democratic Party, the  
Liberation Act adopted last year.  ...•  .  Jsla,mic  Revolution in Iraq  was  Patriotic Union of Kurdistan and the  

·. Rejection caµililJi;~~R th¢ Te~ra~~..,WJiopi th!3.tn. ,.. "'"'~w ..·. . . .....· Islamic Movement of Iraqibased Suprem1:l,~q1.tncitCor Islnrqip,,;.,J~ cl;I. stat~ 1:fax~d t.o The.· Kurdistan. Also selected was the Rovolution in lrtq~:an,rrnbr(lll&.1'<> Associated Pt.<. ':(:ttiro~_the.Jtaqi Movement for a Constitutional several Shiite MusUrn gi:oups. .. ,'. N~tfo;µaf Congf~:S~ 7"" a.n Ull'lbl'ella, Monarchy, based in London. 
. -,. ·-::: 
-------~--------,-----...-....----· -~-----------.......,
·-· -~ _...._......,.. 
page 6 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, January 21, 1999 
Senate 
continued from page l 
social action, and a good way to do this is with dinners." 
Student body president Peler Cesaro asked the sena­tors to consider ideas for the Spring semester's student government Board of Trustees report. 
"This is an opportunity to get long-term policy aspects changed," he said. 
Last semester's report dealt with the First Year uf Studies program and tutoring, and was well-received by the Board, according to Cesaro. 
In other Senate news: 
• Members rejected a pro­posal congratulating Student Union Board manager Ryan Stecz on his recent engage­ment. There was some con­cern that resolutions of that nature were inappropriate for the body to consider. 
"I really don't think this is what we're supposed to be doing here," said Off-Campus . senator Mickey Uoyle. 
Others disagreed, however, noting that not only is this is a common practice, but it is an act of good spirit. 
"Traditionally, the Senate has done this," said O'Donoghue, who pointed to Stecz's commitment to the Student Union. "It's a way of saying thank you and congrat­ulations irn· your new life together." 
The vote on the resolution was 11-9 with seven absten­tions. Measures of this nature require a two-thirds majority for passage. 



Winter eased its assault on South Bend over the past couple days, but the "experts" predict renewed weather fury this weekend. Heavy rain early this weekend could be snow flurries on Sunday. 
Above: Ducks on St. Mary's Lake contemplate the chilly water. 
Right: Maintenance workers shovel snow off the roof of the law build­ing. 
Photos by Peter Richardson for The Observer 

Why Stake Your Career on Just Any Company? 
Your accomplishments in school hove from the stort, you'll have the to work" surveys. everything to do with talent and opportunity to make key contributions 
Learn more about what makes
determination. At CIGNA, we invite right away. We also understand that 
up CIGNA's Business of Caringyou to apply those same qualities at you want to keep growing in your brand. Stop by at our table at the one of the top brands in the financial career. Our intern program lets you 1999 Summer Intern Job Fair.

services industry. explore various job eptions and 

)f. areas of interest. We're on equal opportunity employer. M/f/0/V.
We're looking for bright, career "(IGNA" refers to CIGNA Corporation ond/or one or more of its subsidiaries. Most employees are employed by
minded interns from oll major There's more. We're also just as 
subsidiaries of CIGNA Corporation, which provide insurance areas to enjoy the ample interested in helping you reach your ond related products. challenges and rewords we personal goals. That's probably why offer. Because we focus on we continue to earn high marks from developing our future leaders some of America's "best places
H® -----------------•-naa11N•tfiM 
CIGNA A Business o(Caring.  Date: Time: Place:  Thursday, January 21, 1999 1 :00 · 4:30 pm Joyce Center Concourse  
For more information visit us on the Web: www.cigno.com  

. I• 



-•-"":".••--.._,------£(..._.... 
Thursday, January 21, 1999 The Observer• INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
¦ UNITED KINGDOM 
Labor government begins reform of House of Lords 
Associ..1ed Press 
LONDON 

Keeping ils promise to modernize tlrn 800-ynar-old, unelnct1!d llousn of Lords, Britain's Labor government on Wcd,rnsday published plans lo remove 
the voting rights of aristocrats with inher­ilcd seats in l'arliamcnl. 
The govnrnmcnt also said it would !!Stablish a new sys­h~m for appointing life pc!irs and would set 


up a commission to Tony Blair suggnst a new upper r.hambtir of l'arliamunl. possibly partly appointed and partly electnd. In the plan. rallnd a white paper. the gov11r11ment said it is taking "a signifi­cant step toward the modernization of Parliament -a step reformers have betm unable to secure f'or the whole of this ctmtury." 
r----------------------~
Shor in-Ryu Karate 
•Di.scipli.ne •Self-Defense 
•Self Confidence •Fitness 
Register in Advance at RecSports For More Info.-Call 1-6100 Demonstration Tuesday, January 26, Rockne Rm. 219 6:30PM 
72--~~ 

www.nd.e<lu/~recsport
L----------------------J 
Learn More About 
Great Sales Opportunities 
in Consumer Promotion and Advertising 
The current House of Lords, it said, been forbidden to do, and to stand as lacks legitimacy because it is out of date candidates for the House of Commons and unrepresentative. without having to renounce their titles, 
The plan is sure lo be passed by the as has been the case until now. el11ctcd rhamber of parliament, the Tho plan says an independent. seven-
House of Commons. where Labor has a huge majority. Prime Minister Tonv Blair has said he wants the hereditary peers out by the end of this year.
The i!oUS!l of Lords is dominated by peers from the opposition Conservative party, but can only delay legisla­tion for up to a year. The plan would 
We Offer: 
• 
On-the-job training & development 

• 
Supportive, growth-oriented atmosphere 

• 
Management & leadership opportunities 

• 
Relocation assistance 


Thursday, January 21, 1999 
7:00 p.m. -9:00 p.m. 
Alumni Senior Club Notre Dame University 
NEWS AMERICA
• 
MARKETING 
A NE~ C.oRPoRAl10N COMPANY 
N,·w, America (\farkering is an 1-:qual Opportunity Employer 

remove the voting rights of hereditary peers -dukes. marquises, narls, vis­counts and barons. some with titles going back generations -who inherited their seats in the Lords. 
Nobles will be given the right to vote in national elections. which they have 
We Look For: 

• 
A desire for success & learning 

• 
Leadership & teamwork skills 


'ITIS SHEER CONSTITU­
TIONAL VANDALISM TO 
TEAR DOWN A STRUCTURE 
, 
THAT IS WORKING SO WELL. 
LORD STliATHCLYDE COTVSE!WATIVF AND MEMBER OF TllE fiOUSE OF LORVS 
The 

Observer 
wants 
YOU 
to write for the Sports Department. 
Call 1-4543 
draws up a list of approved names, which is passed to Queen Elizabnth Tl for 
final approval. 
There will be nu change to the posi­tion of the archbishops of Canterbury ancl York and the 24 leading bishops who have seats in the Lords. The white member committee will oversee the appointment of life peers -those honored with lifetime titles for their contribu­tions to national life. Life peers are also allowed to vote in the House of Lords. 
Traditionally, they have been nominated by parties represented in the House of Commons. The prime minister 
• MEXICO 

Nobel Prize winner defends her life story 
Associated Press 
MEXlCO CITY 
Guatemalan Indian activist Rigoberta Menchu denounced those who have questioned the life story that helped her win a Nobel Peace Prize, but hinted Wednesday that the book 

"· coµld be...:--as they suggest ­
.·.··.• a historical composite rather than an autobiography. "I still haven't written my autobiography," she said at a 
11.Mexico City news coQ.ference. ': "What'ye>uhave is a testimoni•
al." . . Menchu became a celebrity after the 1983 publication of "1,. RJgoberta Menchu," ln ·•.·· Which she told of a childhood as a poor Indian caught up in a bloody civil war. She was awarded the Nobel Poace Prize in 1992. Last month, U.S. anthropolo­gist David Stoll published a book claiming that Menchu's book had many inaccuracies.. He challenged hor claims that she had no formal education and that she watched her younger brotlrnr slowly die of starvation and her elder brother get burned to death by soldiers. At a Mexico City news con-
paper said they "often make a valuable contribution ... because of their particu­lar perspective and experience." 
Addressing the Commons, 13lair said the reforms will create a "more just and fair society." 
But Lord Strathclyde, a hereditary peer and Conservative loader in the House of Lords, said he felt a "deep sense of disquiet" over the plan, which he said was nol detailed enough. 
"It is sheer constitutional vandalism to tear down a structure that is working well and offer no ideas on what they will build in its placn," he said. 
There are 633 hereditary peers and 507 life peers. They are overwhelmingly Conservative. giving tho main opposition party a buill-in majority in the Lords, although many never attend. 
The commission on a new upper chamber of Parliament will be headed by life ptrnr Lord Wakeham, a Conservative. the government said. The commission will report back with sug­gestions by Dtic. 31. 
ference, Menchu denied reports that she had enrolled in a private boarding school, saying she worked as a maid at the school. She said Stoll mistook sonrnone by the same name for her elder brother. She didn't directly address claims t.hat her younger broth­er never existed . 
But Menchu suggested exactly what Stoll claimed ­that her story rnpresented a composite of the lives of Indians who sufl'ered through Guatemala's 36-y~iar civil war. 
She spoke of "collective memory" and said her book presented an accurate view of life in wartime Guatemala. 
"I have a right to a historical memory, a right to my mt1mo­ry as a woman and as a Guatemalan," she said. 
"My mother is dead.... If she wasn't eaten by animals, lot's investigate and maybe the mother who was eaten by ani­mals is another Indian moth· er," Menchu said. 
Francis Sejersted, chairman of the Norwegian Nobel Commiltee, has said his group was aware of the criticisms of Menchu's autobiography and that they would have no effect on her prize. 
·.......--· --_.............-­
. . l : 

page 8 The Observer• INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, January 21, 1999 
¦ RUSSIA 

IMF probes Moscow 
sanger

about fund misuse 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 
Police arc investigating claims by international lenders that the Russian government misspent $10 billion in loans intended to help revive its crippled econo­rn y, a top official said Wednesday. 
First Deputy Prime Minister Yuri Maslyukov made the com­ments hours before a mission from the International Monetary Fund was to arrive in Moscow to assess Russia's economy before deciding whether to extend badly needed new loans. 
Maslyukov, who was in Washington last week for talks on new loans, bristled at the lenders' claims. He said an investigation by Russian police would prove the government's innocence, the lnterfax news agency reported. lie did not identify the loans that were allegedly misappropriated, nor did he give any other details of the accusations. 
The IMF has scrapped a $22.6 billion loan package it assem­bled last summer to help Russia avert a looming economic crisis. The loans were frozen after Russia devalued the ruble and defaulted on some of its debts in August. 
With its coffers now almost bare, the Russian government desperately hopes to win new IMF loans. 
In an apparent bid to please the IMF, Finance Minister Mikhail Zadornov said Russia will make its scheduled debt repayments in the first quarter of the year while it continues talks on rescheduling the rest of its foreign debts. Russia must repay $493 million in the first quarter of1999. 

Zadornov added that he hoped the government could reach a loan agreement with the IMF next month. 
"Our only interest is to refi­nance our own debt to the fund" and not to finance domestic spending, Maslyukov said. IMF officials have said any loans will hinge largely on Russia's ability to approve and put into eITect a feasible budget 
The lower house of Russian parliament approved the draft 1999 budget Tuesday, in the second of four required read­ings. But the IMF has criticized even this austere budget as unrealistic and has faulted Prime Minister Yevgeny Primakov's government for fac­toring in loans that haven't been promised. 
Primakov and other officials have said Russia must reach an agreement with the IMF before it can reschedule its foreign debts. 
Meanwhile, Russia's top priva­tization official submitted his resignation because of illness and was temporarily replaced by his deputy. 
$C.rimin(l W(l ·•.· > .. . p other . 
tights viqlti,tioris, and · · · roduc­
at t TaU~a;n and'flt\1 alliaric~ stop figh ting;JJrimed i;ttelf.• ·. 
't;ee tp .a .c.f,},~;,~ftr~ tt,np.
i1-rneinegtfti~·~ioµs witlith~ a.irif of crE¾iting a broad­based representative gov­ernment. 
. • JQ,? indi 
,,qpp .· lt:l .. .•·.• ·..... . 
counci · warne :Ta.Hha* leaders that it would impose unspecified measures .,uqless the~ . . . . i1:~ity/ta~paigp. 
a ·•negotiate pea.cf.': · · 
The United Nations pulled its internationaJstaff out of ,A-fgh~nlstan A~g • .?,lafter a,qltaUan .eUlployee;was. sqot . and killed and another was wounded in Kabul. 
The council .. ~iatement •:Weqne ay ;11li,q,d~Jnan<i.ec1"
tha:t t aliban>showits ·full commitment to the security of all international and humai1itarian personnel and 
.• ,,;.~rged il1e Talib~p and othe; 
•:.parties,to res.t1tn'e coopera.., tion with the United Nations. 

Huge Savings on all Mac & Windows Software! 
Notre Dame Students and Faculty receive up to 75% off retail prices on all software. FREE delivery on all orders until 1 /25/99! ADW 1-800-333-8571 
Aids Awaceness/ Students with Aids Training American Cancer Society Amnesty International Arnold Air Society Big Brothers Big Sisters of Notre Dame Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination (CARE) Circle K International Community Alliance to Serve Hispanics (CASH) Experiential Learning Council (ELC) 
Seminars 
Summer Service Programs First Aid Services Team (FAST) Foodshare Habitat for Humanity Helpful Undergraduate Students (HUGS) Junior Achievement Club Logan Center Memorial Hospital Medical Explorers Ms. Wizard Day Program Neighborhood Study Help Program Recyclin' lrish Right to Life, ND/SMC Special Friends St. Joseph Chapin St. Healthcare Student Tutorial Education Program Students for Environmental Action Students for Responsible Business Supersibs University Young Life Women's Resource Center World Hunger Coalition 

Big Brothers Big Sisters of St. J~ County Boys and Girls Club of St. Joe County Center for Community Justice Center for the Homeless Dismas of Michiana Fun and Learn Children's Dispensary Inc. La Casa de Amistad Life Treatment Center Logan Center Northeast Neighborhood Council Real Services Inc. Service Learning South Bend Community School Corp. 
South Bend Community School Corp. Adult Education Twenty First Cenrnry Scholars 
Women's Care Center 
Community Resource Center Riens of Life 


Thursday, January 2 l, 1999 The-Observer• IN:J;ERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
¦ MEXICO 
Catholic bishop Garcia condemns government 
As~ocia1cd Pres/i 
SAN CHISTOBt\l. DE IAS CASAS, Mnxico If Bishop Samtwl Huiz Carcia or San CrisLohal gots to grnet 
Popn John Paul II cluring his I.rip lo Mexico City, the activisl prnlate knows just what hn will say. 
"Ilello," Huiz deadpans. "It's very nice to see you." 
But if he sp,rnks softly. he'll carry a stick: his pastoral letter, ''From Pain to Hope," a 23-page indictm,rnt of' the Mexican gov­ernment and pl1m for justice for the indigenous pr.ople of Chiapas state, the bishop's nock. 

"We wanl to express to Christian people that we am suf­fering persecution and the con­sequences of low-intensity war," says Bishop Raul Vera Lopez, who works with Huiz and co­his pastoral convoy. 
On Tuesday, two right-wing 
groups of' landowners rnleased 
an opon letter to the popr., ask­
ing him to replace Huiz with a 
pastor who teaches what they 
call authentic Catholic <loctrino, 
not socialist-Marxist propagan­
da. 
"Our land suffers armed vio­

lence and social dissolution pro­
voked by a rnvolutionary action 
... from the cathedral or this 
city." the lett!lr said. 
The bishop, who now trnvels 
with bodyguards. scoffs at the 
idea that anyone can bo apoliti­
cal. 
"A woman who makes tortillas 
is affected by the political situa­
tion. Everybody is involved in 
politics unless hi' is on the 
moon." says Huiz;, in a llannnl 
workshir.t, a wool cap covering 
his bald head. 
Ile acknowledges sympathy 
for Zapatista aims to improvp 
Indians' lives, wh ilc rejecting 
tlrnir use of violence. But he 
bristlos at the term libnration 
theology. 
"How can there b11 a theology of slavery?" he has asknd. Bnsides, he says, he's a pastor, not a theologian. "In Lalin America, we don't talk about llrnology. We talk about commit­ment to poor people." 
That commitment, he says, is at odds with the global f'ren­markel economy, including the Mexican government's economic policy that includes plans to absorb bad bank loans as part of the national rlnbt. 
"We look at the craziness of' an economic model that eats up the richness of the nations (and) shields itself with the idol ol' tlw free market," he says. 
"Blood is spread on the altar of the stock market," he adds, while new debt "generates new slavehood of interest impossible to pay." 
lie also blames the govern­ment for stalling peace talks with the Zapatistas, for failing lo take on drug traflickers and for using the police and military to persecute the Catholic Church by deporting clerics and threat­ening pastoral workers. 
signed tlrn letter. "Still, we don't 
lose our hope in the powor of 
God." 
The document echoes tlrn let­

ter Ruiz presented to the pope 
during his 1993 visit to Mexico, 
condemning tlrn ruling 
Institutional Revolutionary Party 
just when Mexican officials 
wanted to presMt a united front 
before a vote on whether to 
approve the North American 
Free Trade Agreement. 
Once again, Huiz takes on the most divisive issues facing the country: the government's eco­nomic policies, drug traflicking, the 1994 uprising of lffl'tist Indians in the south, and Urn 1997 massacre or 45 unarmed men, women, and children by a pro-government paramilitary group in tlrn southern village of Acteal. 
"Believing in the poor led us to strongly denounce (thosP) who abuse their political power. their privilege and tlrnir wealth," writes Ruiz, who released tho letter in San Cristobal's cathe­dral on Christmas Eve. "We have also denounced any vio­lence by paramilitary groups against defenseless people." 
Such language 1mdears him to Mexico's Maya Indians who call him Tatic -Great Father -the amiable bishop who in the 1960s rode to their villagns on horseback, and among Catholics worldwide who follow the Second Vatican Council's man­date to help the poor fight injus­tice. 
Huiz's opponents, who include government ofTicials and ranch­ers, call him the Hod Bishop. 
They accuse him ol' fomenting the rebellion by the Zapatista National Liberation Army by mixing religion and politics in a misguided theology of liberation. His most fervent critics have burned him in efligy in front of the cathedral. And in November 1997, gunmen opened fire on

Campus Cluster Computer Consultants Needed 
Consultants are still needed to fill certain time 
periods at the following campus clum~rs.
Dinner at Bruno's 
(perry ave) 
TODAY 
5:30-7:00 pm 
HESBURGH CLUST!R 
Sunday 
10 AM-11AM I PM -2 PM 5 PM -6 PM IAM·2AM 
Mond!y 8AM· IOAM I PM· 2 PM 
Tuesd.!ty 
8AM-IOAM Noon -I PM I I PM -Midrilght 
Wedr:esday 8 AM-3 PM Midnight -2 AM 
Thursday 
6AM· 10AM 6 PM-7 PM Midnight • 2 AM 
Friday 
8AM-1 IM1 
9 PM-2M1 Saturday 
9 PM· 2 AM 
If you ~re interested ifl working any of these times, contact l~ura 
Gei<eler at gekeler. IliPnd.edu 
l.AFORTUN! CLUSTER 
Monday 10 AM· Noon Midnight • 2 AM 
Tuesday 
11AM -Noon 
WedneSdily 
10 PM-2 AM 
Thursday 
11AM • Noon 4 PM-6 PM 10PM-2AM 
Fridciy 10 AM -Noon 
DEBARTOLO CLUSTER 
Monday 5AM-8AM 
tOAM-llAM W@dnesday 
8AM-9AM 
11AM-1PM 
Thursday SAM-SAM 8AM·llNi/i 
12 PM· I PM l 1 PM· I AM 
Friday SAM• BAM SAM-Tl AM I0AM· 11 AM 6 PM • Midnight 



The Mighty Pen, the Wieldy Word, or Yadda Yadda 
I lost my words once. They were crammed into the pages of a journal with a cheesy mountain vista on the cover. The words traced worlds, as the journals or frenzied girls do. So, when I left my book on a TWA airplane last August il was a little death. Those 

Mary Margaret Nussbaum 
pages held three years of spilling: Pixies lyrics and mini manifestos, things to do and things to become, documents of days, odes to kisses and slip-sliding away. stories of friends and punches at my parents. Some entries read like this; aaaaaahhhhhhhhh! That's because I've lost my words before. 
What do you do without them? 
Peace came from imagining some gen­tle flight attendant (the kind who hands out extra bags of honey roasted peanuts) adopting the orphan journal. Perhaps she found the blank pages near the end. Perhaps she added her own inky lines. 
These words. they are a luxury, you know? 
Dying men measure their days in breaths, mothers in labor count gasps, Wall Street traders index points, farm­ers watch rainfall and waiters tally tips. We are students. We get to measure our days ,in words. What words shall we choose? 
Carl Sandberg writes it well, "Little girl, be careful what you say/ When you talk with words, words -I for words are made of syllables / and syllables child, are made of air -/ and air is so thin -air is the breath of God ... " 

That breath, that breeze. 
Aren't you glad that you can read? 
Aren't you thrilled that there is a tower­ing library across the way and that our newspapers don't have articles blacked out and there is a man somewhere in Omaha making a living as a poet? Aren't you thrilled that your job for these brief days is to learn? How entirely self­indulgent and sweet -we are here to make our minds more interesting places. We are here to weave nets and take them to these fertile fields -catch delicious words and fearsome words and let their beating wings carry us away. 
And we must learn -as chanting monks have learned; as storytellers tenting in the Tetons have learned; as mothers lulling their fevered children to sleep have learned -to be careful with the words. 
yYe throw them around, forgetting their power. We call dull movies 'gay,' and sniveling boys 'pussies.' We add 'black' as an adjective when the story is of wrongdoing and race is irrelevant. 
A student writes an article in these pages calling the Women's Resource Center the "Nasty Feminist Enclave." Yeah. That is civil discourse on campus. Have you seen the nation's? Jokes about knee pads and cigars. Apple runs ads telling consumers-r-us to "think dif­ferent.'' (Adverb lovers everywhere shiver, it's "differently.") Titanic is our favorite movie and yes, swoon, swoon, it's all quite soaring and beautiful, but the script? Cliches, fluff and deeply unmoving testaments to saccharine love. 
The Chicken Soup for the Various Kinds ofSouls books are topping the bestseller lists, as is Jamie Lee Curtis's autobiog­raphy. What about pop music. "And 1 miss you / Like the deserts miss the rain ... " that doesn't even make sense. 
Do deserts need more rain? (I'm turn­ing up my Johnny Cash. Let's play some De La Soul.) 
We all forget to think before we speak. I babble like a brook. I fail to cultivate silence and a listening ear (this too, is part of relishing language). I say "like," like way too friggin' much. 
My older sister called me a "bitch" once. She got grounded. We were both lectured on the way that that explosive little syllable is used to demean, degrade and dehumanize. For a while we called my younger sister "Debbie," which was code for "D.B.," which stood for "Diarrhea Breath." The poor dear is scarred for life. 
When we name things we give them power. When may become the tragic substitute. There are inmates who have climbed their way out of those same cells; off bolted beds, into the pages of a book, and singing into the world. Malcolm X? He went in a pimp and came out a prophet. 
Words, the words that Sandberg says are fine, "finer than fire or.mist, finer than water or moonlight," and strong, "stronger than rock or steel, stronger than corn, fish, cattle," can redeem. 
This week there is much talk of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. His example, of living the words he so eloquently spoke, is remarkable indeed. llis life was poet­ry in motion. He was careful with his 
words, and they freed the voiceless 
many who cling to them. 

~ 
tell stories we find a  
voice.  When we  
slouch over a ver­ 
bose hunk of British  ~  
philosophy, or a  ~  
poem by Pablo  
Neruda, highlighter  
in hand, we are wel­ 
corned into the grand- 

we craft sentences and~
A 

est of conversations. How lucky we are. 
It's week two of semester two and the words and ideas are piling up -as thick and difficult to negotiate as South Bend snowdrifts. Oh, but have you caught a flake of that same snow on your tongue? It's delicious. It melts. How lucky, how very lucky -we get to measure our days with words. 
There are inmates in cells painted soothing shades of mauve because they were never given a trombone; a paint­brush; a blank journal and a good pen. We must express. We must create. ff we have no language with which to shout the mystery "I am! I am!" then the whimpers and bangs! of violence 
This week 1 have too much to_L read. Seas of pages and aT faulty compass. And I'm a 
• lucky one. Do you remember what happened in
I 
Fahrenheit 451? Do you · remember that speedy, slick world where the TV took up t::I! four walls and firemen were ~ paid to burn books? The rebels -those lithe literati -sparked a revolution by becoming books. There are worse things you could become, dull, for example. Unite rebel readers. Don't e-mail for a week. Write a long letters. Work "dra­conian" into a sentence; it's a great party trick. Listen to Sandberg, "when you speak greetings, when you tell jokes, make wishes, or prayers, be care­ful, be careless, be careful, be what you wish to be." 
Mia Nussbaum is a sophomore living in Howard Hall. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
¦ DOONESBURY 
Off/~, I CfX.UJN'rn;;g. yH4rl: !laJGI-ITA f'Afl!R.-I /XWT t</H4T, 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

lll'JSIPE-5, &rJli!'iNTAa'lHIG HO((/ABOUr M4~ !?Al~~571CKY Fl~ ,AMCN&'M8NT!i /9, fJUT AM5Nt:M!iNTIGSOl5? 5-9, 14, 19 Ya/ {JI/JN'T/ ,4Nl?26 r H~rr I F/?.OM M/3. 
I 

¦ 0.UOTE OF THE DAY 
,Beer is for breakfast around here. Drink or be gone.' 
-Douglas Conghlin from the movie Cocktail 

VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, January 21, 1999------------------
------------------------page 11 
¦ DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. 

Living the Dream -Hopes for a Better Future 
Pittsburgh, PA 15212 Tunsday, January 21, 2076­


Spencer Stefko 
•·1•ctp-l'np! I'm lumw! Wer:e you able to 

_qcl it?" 
"Yeah I was, but il wasn't easy. I had to distrar.t your mothor while Grams grabbod 
il. Why did we have to sl.oal your grades out ol'the mail">~ 
"Oh, nu n•ason. I just u•anted to give 
them lo lwr mwwlf " 

"Yuah. and your grandfalluir used to steal his letters from Student Affairs al his col­lt\gc bm:aus1' he ·wanted to give them to me himsdf.' You ran't bn having troublt• with grades. What's your GPA again?" 
"St•iwn-poinl-three on a four scale." 

"Let m1• t,ill you, with grade inflation, grades am sum a lot easier to come by ..." 
'"frah, I know, ancl .'JOU w:tuall.'J had to walk to school ... !tc•ah, right. Anyway, I flunk,•d history. " 
"You what!'?" 
"Plw1kl'fl history." 
"i\kx. I was a history tcaclmr. Both of 

your ~randparnnts wern history teaclmrs. 
Your motlwr is a lawyer. Ilow could you 
llunk history?'' 
"/ tril'd, but /just couldn't unde,-siand 

it . .. 
"Whal did you cover this quartm· that was 

so hard''" 
"Wei~ we slarlt•d with the Civil War am! ('tlded with llw Venturia,, Era. " 
"Yeah, I couldn't umlcrstand how the country could cl!ict a pro wrestler president either." 
"No, it wasn't that. I understood lhal. It's quite ,•m;y lo undt!rslanrl in light of lhr• party rmlignmenl al the turn ofthis ct•11lury. 11u• realignment was at'lually a ft•w y,•ars ov,•rdru•, as I understand it. It ll'Cts that (.'il'i/ lli,qhls thing I couldn't 1111derstami. " 
"Whal didn't you undnrstand?" 

"111C' wh(/lf' lmsis. They wer<' talking about rights and classes and colors and I ju.st muldn'I 1mdPrslaml ctrl!J ofil. The /Jflrl rim/ rt!ctll.'J got me was the whole color thing. " 
"The black and white thing'!" 

'Tmh, that. ll-ly leac/wr tried to tefl w; that hlm·k am/ u1hile peopl<! sometimes c/i<ln 't like• each otherjust because oflhP mlor ofllwir skin. Ijust didn't undPr· .'iland. And it ,rmm'rjust mt•. None ofus n•all!J understood." 
"That's lwcausn kids today don't notice color." 
"l:'t1l'r.'I limt' I do .wmwthing wrong you .'itarf on thal 'kids today' stuff... " 
"No, it's a good thing this Lime. I can see how you wouldn't understand. This subject is tough for this gmwration." 
"What clo you 11w<m?" 

"llnrn: what's the clilfornnct• butween Tiffany and IU.'?" "/ dwuw. Tiffany's lt:fl·l1ctnded. And /)../. '.'i taflt•r, I ym•ss. " 
"Well. a fow years ago, Tiffany would have !wen called 'blark.' and D . .l. 'white."' 
"Wlt!J?" 

".Just lwcausti that's what color people thought tlwir skin lookml." 
"f.'tmw lo think ofit, l'iff'any's skin is dark,•r Ihm, IJ..I. 's. Hut so what?" 
"Well. nothing rnally. But there was a linw wlwn pnople didn't understand that. They thought that there were different per­sonalitins and talents that w1mt with di!Ter­nnt rnlors." 
"What about ifsomeone was tan?" 

"You rnally don't understand. Thal only had a little hit lo do with it. Sne. it wasn't .iust skin color. It was about anything that was di/Terenl which made people foe! 
threatened or uncomfortable. It went to dif­ferent looks. cultures. and ways of speak­ing, too." 
"Okay, so what ifsomeone Jell th,:eat­ened?" 
"Well. it affocted the way that people related to each other. Ifyou were different from someone, they ofhm related to you dif­f'erently. It affected who you were friends with. who got shots at jobs, who got oppor­tunities to do things to make themselv!ls better." 
"Why?" 
"Well. it looked complex at the time. But it was actually kind of simple. It's kind of like when you see a car in your rear view mirror and you slow down because you think it's a cop. But when the car passes you. you see lhal it's just a car with a lug­gagn rack and you can see it dearly only as it passes you and you slow!-ld down for m:.thing and your <;rams is yelling in my ear 
"Pap-Pap, relax. I have no idea what you'r,1 talking ai>oul. I'm 10 years old. I've never driven a car. " 
"Oh yeah. Well, what I mean is that it seomnd so complex at the Lime, but as it. started to heal itsetr and the problem passed right before our very eyes, it became apparnnt that it wasn't as tough as it looked. It came down to ignorance." 
"What do you mean?" 
"People who didn't accept attempts to get 
'WEWANTED TO BE 
. COLORBLIND, BUT 

WE COULDN'T DO IT UNTIL 
WE GOT RID Of ALL THE 
BAGGAGE THE OTHER GEN­
ERATIONS LEFT US.' 
rid of these problems mostly just didn't 
understand. They weren't bad people, they just never took the time to think about 
everyone getting a fair shot at things like 
our country says they should." 
"What happened lo get us here from 
th,~rt\ Pap-Pap?" 
"Well. about the turn of the century. peo­ple started to realizn that the same thing had betm wrong with society. for almost 300 years: that when they looked at a 'black' person and a 'white' person, and everyone in between, they didn't see the same thing: just a person, no color. Thank God it was my generation that finally put an end to it once and for all." 
"flow?" 
"Well. about the turn of the century, we starlnd doing stuff Lhal was a little tough for thll Lime. OilTerent 'groups' started to real­ize that there was no magic wand to wave, that this change was something that was only going to take place one person at a time." 
"So how did you guys bridgti that gap if it was so uncomfortable?" 
"We did service projects together. We drank together. We went out on a limb and did the stuff that it was obvious some gen­eration was going to have to do sooner or later." 
"Wasn't that hard?" 
"llell. yeah it was hard. We were doing things no American generation had ever done before. And it seemed to make so liltle sense at the time." 
"How's that?" 
"Well, it was really tough because to get lo be a colorblind cQuntry, we had to realize that since we weren't colorblind when we were growing up, there were differences in the way people were treated. We wanted to be colorblind, but we couldn't do it until we got rid of all the baggage the other genera­tions left us." 
"Wow. l'hal must have been hard. " "Yup. But it allowed us to leave a color­blind country for our kids." "/ guess I understand.. But how did il 
get started?" 
"Well, there really wasn't a start. 
Everyone started in their own way. My col• 
lege, Notre Dame, was the most well-
endowed school in the land. and ... " 
"Johnn.'J says that that means ... " 
"Let me rephrase that. I meant that they had the largest endowment around. They decided that having a school that prepared students to go into this new world meant that they needed to have their students exposed to all different kinds of people. They took some bank away from building things and took a chance: they invested in their minority population." 
"/don't understand why they needed lo do that. Couldn't youjusl study your way oul ofthis stuff!" 
"Some dead smart English guy once said that 'I pay the schoolmaster. but 'tis the schoolboys who educate my son.' lie was right. Notre Dame started to realize that they were pumping out knowledw.able kids, but that their knowledge was all book knowledge. Right after I graduated, the emphasis switched from just book smarts to book smarts and life smarts. I was still going to school there in the summers and it was a place you could be proud to be asso­r.iated with." 
"Grams say.,; that when you graduated you bought a motorcycle to compfmsate for insecurities stemmingfrom your 
receding hairline and lhat ... " 
"Remind me to thank her, but the point is that the school started cranking out more well-rounded kids." ' 
"How did they get the diflerenl type of people there, Pap-Pap? rhat doesn't sound like a place I'd like to go ifI wasn't like the rest ofthe people." 
"One step was that Notre Dame started observing a holiday celebrating one of the old "black" leaders. even though it didn't celebrate any other national holidays. They didn't have to, in fact it was hard for them to recognize Martin Luther King and not Christopher Columbus. They didn't have to, but they did. They chose to show some desire to get different types of people there. That was the beginning of a change in rep­utation that opened the lloodgates for great faculty and students who used to think Notre Dame wasn't for them. That and the funding I talked about before started some­thing special." 
"King was the guy who started the whole Civil Rights movement, right?" 
"Well, he was the first to make himself heard on a national level. I le seems pretty simple to this generation, but he was pretty controversial at the time.'' 
"Yeah, I didn't understand that in class, eithe,-. fle'sfamous because he said that everyone was equal and he wanted every­one to love each other, and he wanted this accomplished peacefully. So what? I think the same thing. " 
"His message was one of standing up for what was right, and one of charisma." "/,1;1ish he was still here today, Pap• Pap. 
"Why? We've obviously graduated past the problems of' his day and are living in the world he dreamed of." 
"Well the stuffabout peace and love really appeal to me right now. My moth­er's homefrom work and I have an "F" on my report card. " 
"No you don't. I changed it to a "B" before you got home. It's not your fault you can't see color. It's Doctor King's." 
6:00 tonight in the Lafortune Ballroom. Not your usual forum. I put my word behind it being positive, future-oriented, and interesting. Also free, all-you-can-eat Marco's pizza and all-you-can-listen-to Voices of Faith Choir. What else do you have to doat 6:00 on a Thursday. I'd like to have this conversation with my great­granddaughter. Please come help me. 
Spencer Stejko is a senior American stud­ies major. Between he and his similarly inconstant roommate, Brandon Williams. Viewpoint has surrendered all hope ofever having a set, regular schedule for columns. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
¦ LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
A 
Correction and a Brief African History Lesson-All in One 

~ 

, 
I L.__ __:_.=.:.cc__:_.::..='----"..,,.,­
0 k a y everybody, time for a lit­tle lesson in African geography and current events. After the front page of yesterday's Observer incorrectly identilied Abidjan as the location of the fighting taking place in West Africa and after the date line of the article itself identified the Ivory Coast as the location, som(i correction and elaboration may be helpful. 
Abidjan is, indeed, the capital of the Ivory Coast, or Cote d'Ivoire, a former French colony, now a supposed success story of France's neo-colonial policies. It is, at any rate, a much safer location for the Associated Press to send its news dispatches from than is Freetown, the capital of Sierra Leone, where a civil war is actually being fought. 
The current battles in Freetown, in addition to causing the deaths of hundreds. proba­bly thousands, of Sierra Leoneans, and to leaving home­less upwards of 30,000 Freetown residents, have also led to the deaths of at least 2 western ji1urnalists. Hence, it is probably wise of the Associated Press to stay safely ensconced in Abidjan, though this does lead to some confusion as to the loca­tion of the events being report­ed. 
At any rate, it is encouraging to see some coverage of the con­!lict in Sierra Leone, now nearly four years old, which has recent­ly reached levels of savagery that bring comparisons with the Rwandan genocides. Al least one media watchdog organization has labeled the conflict in Sierra Leone one of the ten most under reported events of 1998. The best web site for news of Sierra Leone can be found at www.bbc.co.uk.hi/english/africa. 
Troy Feay graduate srudent, History Department January 19, 1999 



---· -----------.

' 
---------------Thursday,January 21, 1999 



Students exhibit accomplished work at Student Film Festival 
By JULIA GILLESPIE 
Scene Copy Editor 

"Daring, humorous and serious," said Ted Mandell, faculty coordinator of the Notre Dame Student Film Festival. when asked to describe the films in this year's festival. 
"[The shows) tackle many different issues that range from the overuse of prescribed drugs, dying with dignity and to what it is like to be a student film maker," he added. 
Mandell first organized the film festival in 1990 and since then it has grown in popularity, especially in the last four years. This year it shows Friday and Saturday nights, Jan. 22 and 23, at 7 and 9:45 p.m. Since all of last year's shows sold out an encore screening is also scheduled at 7:30 p.m. on Monday, Jan. 25. Tickets cost $3 and some ofthe shows are already sold out. The festi­val is expected to run for 98 minutes. 
Mandell's classes Professional Video Production and Introduction to Film and Video Production wrote the scripts for these films and produced and edited them .. within about two months. Jill Goodwin also worked with students to produce the films through the classes Advanced Film Production and Immediate Film Production. Each film was produced by a team of two < • students from the department of Film, Television and Theatre. There are 16 films total. 
" 

Senior Tom Hartmann and Jim Blaum worked togeth­er to produce the film The Seeds. Blaum developed the 
111

idea for the fiim and they wrote the script together. They started shooting a month ago and spent a week of photo courtesy of Notre Dame Student Film Festival 
A clip from Tom Hartmann and Jim Blaum's ''The Seeds," inspired by the approaching Millenium being showed at the
intense filming. After that they devoted more time to ses­
Notre Dame Film Festival.

sions of editing. "We started out with a skeleton for our film and ence and notes that there are so many people to thank. About Abuse deals with issues that permeate abusiveworked from there to create a film about the year 2000, 
"We did one shot from the NBC studio in Chicago and families. 
where Jesus comes back and talks to a journalist to relay even used members of the Chicago Police Department to "Violent scenes arc taken out of the movie in order tothe message that the world is coming to an end," Blaum film our picture," he said."For example, we used a police describe the action of violence," Chucta explained. "Itsaid. 
horse to pose as the fourth horse in the Apocalypse." forces the audience to listen for an explanation of theBlaum believes his message speaks to society's obses­"I never put more work into anything than this short, violence and picture it graphically in their mind." 
sive concerns with technology and thinkslast scene has nine minute piece of work," he added. "You need to "It does not give a glamorized view of abuse and itspecific symbolic significance. 
involve so many people in order to bring each film to life. shows instances of what really happens, such as irra­"It ends in a field with electrical wires crossed over it. 
The festival is important because it enables student film tional behavior of parents," he added.
You hear sounds of prison doors shutting down that rep­makers the opportunity to get student feedback. These Jeff Spoonhower worked with Denis Hurley to create resent how society is restricted by technology," he said. 
plays are meant to be seen by a big group of people." the film Ryan Victor's Senior Thesis. He has attended the Hartmann recollects highlights of their ~!ming experi-Andy Ankowski and Dan Chucta's film Incomplete Film film festival for the last three years. 
"Many of the films are avant-garde and their meaning is not apparent right away," Spoonhower said. '"Ryan Victor's Senior Thesis' pokes fun at student film makers and their lofty goals, which sometimes dis­tance their audiences." 
Spoonhower is excited about the film festival because it is the culmi­nation of a semester of hard work.. 
"l worked really hard throughout the semester on it and lived through the films," he explained. "It is grati­fying to see them played before sold­out audirmces and it is good for the film students to seo the reaction or their audience." 
The film festival also enables many students to gain national recognition for their hard work and devotion to their films. Last year's Pet Warfare, by Brian Fremeau and Denis llurley, and Last Laugh, directed by Ann Goodwin, Jen Porst and Nick Kapranos. earned awards at national festivals. 
"Many students go on to graduate~ school or enter the film and telcwi­sion industry," Mandell explained. "Some students use their film work at Notre Dame as astepping stone to get into the film industry as audio editors." 


. photo courtesy ot Notre Dame Student Film Festival 
The subject matters of these plays

A clip from "Une Vraia Romance" by Christy Smith and Jocelyn Szczepaniak-Gillece poke fun at fantasies of "french-nicity." 
range from black humor to serious 

C 
ene, s 
Thursday, January 21, 1999 ------------------OTHE page 13
BSERVER 


French theater production will please students al all languages 
By KATI MILLER Scene Wm.,r 
A heallhy mun. plagued by a series of endless ailinc•nls. wants his daughtor to marry a young doctor so he rnn bn treated for lil'e wilh no charge. Tho daughtnr, who rnalirns that tlrn young doctor is a complete irnbncile, has other plans for herself. Tlw "invalid's" wi!'e pretonds to love her husband but is actually waiting for him to die off so she can coll,ict his small fortune. Sound intriguing'! This is tlw plot ol' the French play hning pnrfornwd this WlWk­PIHI, I.a Malade imagirwire. 
I.a Malade imaginaire is 1wrl'ornrnd by HOFH 490, Friinch Tlwatre Production. This coursP was crnatnd 1•ighl years ago by Prof'nssor !'au I M cDow,dl and has lwconrn exll'l\llrnly popular with Frnnch students and non-French students alike. 
"Tlrnn• has 11nv11r lrnen a shortagn or studcnts whu ronw f'rom other back­grounds," said Md)owcll. "This ynat·, for example, we hav!! an archil<icturu stu­dtrnt and snvcral students who am not French rnajurs. I consider it iL well-rounded cast." 
Tim cast is made up of 11 stud1\nls who meet thren hours each week or the fall smiws!er. J\t tlrn start 1>f tho spring s1mrnster, the group bngins nightly rehearsals. 
"It's an odd way to put on a play, three hours a week for four months in the fall. then eight intensive rehearsals in the dead of winter and then you're performing a masterpiece ur French theatre for I 00 spectators crammed into the Lab Theatre. But it works," said McDowell. "And we've got seven y1rnrs of repeatnd sellouts and remarkable memo­rins to prove it." 
This annual production is unique, obviously lrncaus11 ol' its language, but also because of the actors tlrnmsnlves. 
While a proficiency in French is essential, the­
atrical experience is not. !'or all involved. Arkedis heard about the class as a "I did il mostly for the professor, seeing as how · freshman but did not participate until this year. 
my only previous acting experience was as the fairy Mustardseed in Shakespeare's A Midsummer Night's Dream," said Jim Arkedis. who has a lead­ing role in the production. 
"I've only had one theatre major in eight years. I am consistently overwhelmed by the remarkable !(Wei of acting that these students deliver. It's cer­tainly not thanks to my directing!" said McDowell. 
The play, though done in French. is open to all 
spectators. A synopsis in English is given to every­one and there are certainly many non-francopho­nes in attendance. 
"If you do not speak French, you will be in good company at this unique theatrical experience," said McDowell. "I guarantee you that you will laugh loud and often." 
"!L's quite wonderful to make people laugh even ii' they don't know a word of French," senior said Corrine Cook. 
The production has been a rewarding experience "Two years later, I rind myself trying to memo­
rize two page passages in a foreign language, 
when I wouldn't even want to do it in English!" 
said Arkedis. "Excluding my year abroad, it's been 
the most unique learning experience I've had yet.'' "The play seemed to get richer as we [the cast] became closer to our characters," said Cook. "Inspiring students who arc learning French is great too." 
The small cast pro­vides students with a chance to work together on a basical­ly self-sufficient pro­ject. Each year's tick­et sales fund tlrn next year's production. This play also com­bines language and theatre in a unique and exciting way. 
"I think there is a deep and fundamen­tal connnction made between a profound love or Frnnch and the chemistry or t<ixt and cast." said McDowell. "It's gotten to the point that peo­ple expect a French play in the second week or the spring term. I like that." 
La Malade imagi­naire will be the last production until 2002 because McDowell will be spending the next two years direct­ing the University or 
Notre Dame study abroad program in Angers, 
France. "Professor McDowell is an incredible director. He was so patient and encouraging to all of us throughout the many problems, memory slips and the time it took us to understand it," said Cook. 
The play runs Thursday through Saturday at 
7:30 p.m. in the Washington Hall Lab Theatre. Tickets are available at the Language Hesourco Center in 201 O'Shaughnessy for $3. 

10th Annual Notre Dame Student Film Festival presented by: Department of 
.:=·•·:­

Film, Television and Theatre 
when: Friday, Jan. 22 & Saturday, Jan. 23 
7:30 & 9:45 p.m. 

(Encore screening Monday, Jan. 25, 7:30 p.rn:) where: Snite Museum of Art admission: $3 ~ tickets available at 
LaFortune Info Desk 
La Mala e 1mag1nare 
French .Theater Production directed by: Paul McDowell presented by: ROFR 490 
when: iJiursday, Jan::121 -Saturday, Jan. 23 
\.. 7:30 p.m. . · where: Washingtor(¾"R~II Lab Theatre admission:.,$3 -tickets available at 

.... 
-
• ....._ 
1111111111-11111'~-...-----------------------....------------------------------------~.......--,,..ac:....._, .. _o:;.I____... 
page 14 The Observer• SPORTS Thursday, January 21, 1999 
¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Marlins owner seeks taxpayer-backed ballpark 
Associated Press investment anytime soon. A new ballpark is the only start. departed team president Don Henry projects that the Marlins way to generate the revenue "To me he represents real Smiley, a Huizenga confidant. MIAMI will lose $5 million to $9 mil­needed to pay high-priced play­promise for South Florida base­But Henry said he won't be New Florida Marlins owner lion this year despite a payroll ers, Henry said. He pointed to ball," Marlins general manager involved in baseball decisions. John Henry interrupted his of just $25 million, one of the the turnaround of the Dave Dombrowski said. "It's Smiley's duties will be assumed news conference Wednesday to lowest in baseball. Cleveland Indians in their new been a year-and-a-half roller­by Jonathan Mariner, senior hold up a sign for the cameras In 1997, the Marlins won the stadium as an example. coaster ride. The ride has vice president for finance and that read: "CALL 930-HITS." World Series but lost $34 mil­"To compete in the National stopped." administration, and Jim Ross, 
"Anybody want to buy season lion, according to Huizenga, League today; a team needs a Henry, a native of Quincy, Ill .. . vice president for sales and tickets?" Henry asked with a who ordered the team disman­payroll of at least $50 million," described himself Wednesday marketing. smile. tled. Last year, with a payroll he said. "The Marlins in Pro as "a farmer who studied phi­The Marlins' new owner 
The campaign to win back ofjust $13 million by the end of Player Stadium can't break losophy in college but failed to pledged last year to pay for a disgruntled Marlins fans began the season, Florida lost 108 even with a $20 million payroll. graduate." More important is new ballpark himself if neces• hours after Henry completed games and the support of many The future of baseball in South that he's a lifelong baseball fan sary, a comment he may his $150 million purchase of fans. Horida depends on playing in a who grew up listening to Harry regret. He'd rather spend the the troubled franchise from But if fans want a winning new ballpark." Caray broadcast St. Louis money on players. founding owner H, Wayne team again, Henry said. they Henry said the Marlins will Cardinals games. "My responsibility to you is Huizenga. Major league owners must pay for it. He'll seek a be able to afford a $50 million "He's the kind of guy who not to commit financial sui­approved the sale last week, taxpayer-financed ballpark. payroll as soon as they move would be playing baseball if he cide," he said Wednesday. "My and the deal closed Tuesday "In baseball, more than in into a new ballpark -if tax­could," said Marlins pitcher responsibility to you is to stabi­when Henry paid Huizenga. any other sport, revenues payers help build it. Alex Fernandez, one of several lize this franchise financially so 
"I don't worry about the determine success," he said. Opposition to such a plan players attending th'e news that South Florida baseball is investment," said the 49-year­"The more the community will prompted the sale of the team conference. "That makes me winning baseball. and to alter old Henry. a multimillionaire do, the better the team will do. by Huizenga, who was per­want to play for him." the economics so that after I'm commodities trader from Boca It comes down to people decid­ceived as a villain for breaking Henry will have an offico at gone, no one will ever think Raton. "I can't take it with me." ing whether baseball is impor­up the World Series champi­Pro Player Stadium, and he there's an advantage to the 
He's unlikely to recoup his tant in South Florida." ons. Henry provides a fresh won't hire a replacement for team playing anywhere else." 
¦ OLYMPICS ¦ NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE 
IOC bribery scandal widens Billick becomes 
Associated Press tors, but Graham said they also waiting for the results of would rely heavily on the infor­SLOC's ethics investigation 
new Ravens coach 
SALT LAKE CITY mation uncovered in the SLOC before deciding on their next The bribery scandal sur­report and in the Justice move. 
Associated Press dismissed with head coach
rounding the 2002 Winter Department probe, which will Johnson and SLOC president Ted Marchibroda on Dec. 28. 
Olympics has prompted a fifth likely take months to complete. Frank Joklik, the top two offi­BALTIMORE "I've addressed that issue,"investigation -this one by the The SLOC ethics committee's cials in the Salt Lake Olympic Brian Billick probably would Billick said. "Having goneUtah Attorney General. findings are expected to be effort, resigned Jan. 8. Joklik 
have preferred to celebrate through 25 years as an assis­
Jan Graham, the state's attor­released before Feb. 11, though admitted the Salt Lake bid com­
his first few days as an NFL tant, I'm very sensitive to ney general, said Wednesday no exact date has been mandat­mittee's work had been tainted 
head coach with a relaxing what they're going through
her inquiry will not begin until ed, SLOC spokesman Frank by unscrupulous activities, family vacation. right now. There are a num­
the Salt Lake· Organizing Zang said. Graham said her including the giving of lavish Instead, he spent it with ber of fine coaches on this
Committee's ethics panel and office's investigation "will not gifts, cash, scholarships and staff that I'm to be
Ozzie Newsome in Alabama. going
the International Olympic be very active" before the free medical care to IOC mem­Billick, hired .by the interested in." 
Committee release their report is released. bers who awarded the city the Baltimore Ravens on Tuesday, Billick was the offensive 
reports. The federal government's games in 1995. 
savored the moment for only a coordinator of the Minnesota
The U.S. Olympic Committee investigation resumed Wheeler maintained his client 
few hours before turning his Vikings before signing a six­and the Justice Department Wednesday. Stephanie Pate, the did nothing wrong. 
attention toward assembling a year contract to coach thealso are investigating. Justice onetime secretary of former bid "I think he's been segregated staff. Ravens. He said he will callofficials met with at least one committee head Tom Welch, out of all this as the instigator, Less than 90 minutes after his own plays from the side­
potential witness Wednesday met with two Justice and that's not the case," 
being introduced to the media, line but still plans to hire anand were expected to begin Department lawyers and an FBI Wheeler said. "We're trying to Billick was on his way to the offensive coordinator.
presenting evidence to a grand agent for several hours, said fend off the blows that are com­Senior Bowl with Newsome, There is also the matter ofjury. her lawver, David Watkiss. ing his way." 
the Ravens vice president of getting the right players for
Graham said her office will Thou.gh unable to answer The USOC inquiry, primarily 
player personnel. If all goes his system. but Billick will 
not Oduplicate the work of the specific questions about the intended to recommend new well, Billick will have his new address that chore at a laterfederal investigation," and federal officials' lines of ques­guidelines for American cities staff in place by the end of time.
instead will examine potential tioning, Watkiss intimated that bidding for future Olympics, 
next week. "My first priority has to be
violations of Utah criminal Pate was asked about many bid will be finished before March, 
"There are a number of in putting the staff together.
laws. committee activities in which said the investigation's leader, individuals I plan to talk to at That's a big process," he said.
"Our work will be done care­she was never involved. former Senate Majority Leader 
the Senior Bowl, which tends "Then we will move into freefully, but as quickly and profes­"She answered their ques­George Mitchell. 
to be-a coaching convention," agency and then the draft."
sionally as possible so that tions to the best of her ability." "There has been a series of Billick said. "I have a very Billick got familiar with thequestions surrounding potential Watkiss said. revelations almost on a daily clear-cut idea about what my Ravens last month when thecriminal conduct do not linger," Max Wheeler, attorney for basis," Mitchell told the Deseret staff is going to be." Vikings played in Baltimore.
Graham said. "Those questions former SLOC senior vice presi­News. "And we are doing the 
His staff could include for­Although Minnesota regis­
need to be answered with confi­dent Dave Johnson, said best we can to follow every lead mer Ravens defensive coordi­tered an easy 38-28 victory,dence and finality." Wednesday his client had· not to clarify every fact and, if pos­nator Marvin Lewis and sever­he was impressed by theThe attorney general's office yet received a federal subpoe­sible, to investigate every alle­al other members of the staff Baltimore defense. 
will use its own staIT investiga-na. Wheeler and Johnson were gation." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid.
Classifieds 

The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
......OBITUARY..••••• 

-
SPRING BREAK 99! 3BEDROOM HOME IN ROSE-For sale: Digitech RP-20 BOB DYLAN 1st. 5 ROWS 
Cancun • Nassau • Jamaica LAND AVAILABLE NOW 2773097 guitar floor pre-amp/effects proces-WWF. RINGSIDE 1st. 10 rows We mourn the passing of our three
NOTICES 

Travel Free and make lots of sor. Ex. condition, only 1 year old. 272-7233. crab friends: Stacey, Gina, and 
I 

Cash!Top reps are offered on-si1e HOUSE FOR RENT $350 o.b.o. Call Brendan at 287· Brad. Their lives were short but Spring Break Bahamas Party staff jobs.Ail-Inclusive 5 bedrooms, 2 baths, dishwasher, 9910. purposeful. They died either of Cruise!5Nights $279!1ncludes Deals.Special Discounts up to $100 washer/dryer, safe neighborhood PERSONAL boredom, an overheated fish tank, Meals & Free Parties!Awesome per person.Lowest price close to campus, alarm system, 96 Toyota Camry LE,26400 mi. or homicide by the fish. ihey are Beaches,Nightlife'Departs From Guaranteed.Call now tor details! central air, large living area, fenced like new. $15,500 call Victor 219· B, survived by their owners. 
Florida!Cancun & Jamaica $399! www.classtravel.com yard, wood floors, one large orien· 277-2770 after 5:00pm. I love you and I hope that you get The funeral will be held tomorrow sprmgbreakt1avel.corn 800/8 38-64 11 tal rug, $1100/mo. Call Bill @675· to see the pope. between 2 and 4 p.m. The services 1-800-678-6386 0776. LAPTOP PC -M will be handled by Rowland Home P-133 w/ MMX for Funerals. A water burial (in St
FOR RENT
Spring Break Panama City 3 bdrm. duplex. remodeled, 501 Office 97, Windows95 Spoonball...catch the fever. Mary's Lake) is planned. $129'Boardwalk Room w/Kitchen Eddy St. 1 mi. from campus. 32MB RAM, Carrying Case In lieu of flowers. donations may be Next To Clubs!7 Parties-Free HOUSE FOR RENT. Applilmces, w/d. And Much More! Bruinball.catch the flu. sent to 240 Lyons Hall. Drinks!Oaytona $149!South Beach TWO BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. 273-8332. Call Patrick@ 634-1236 $129/Cocoa Beach $1491 4-5 BR. Available June for Happy 20th Birthday G-DAWG! I'm drawing a Minorca. spnngbreaktravel.com Summer, August for Fall. '99-'00 LOAOED!6 Bedrm. $800 NEW Rates Phone Cards 1-800-678-6386 Dishwasher, Washer/Dryer. Full mo. 273-0482/234-3831 282 min $20 call 258-4805 Tambre -make like an article and To my roommate: 
Basement, Large Backyard and listen • it's not his · he just wrote it! Great quote in The 0. I'm so proud. Off Street Parking. MONITORED Apple Multiple Scan 15"
• WANTED FOR SALE
SECURITY SYSTEM INCLUDED. Monitor: $100.00 I know you're reading this Dad Hiltz puts 'The Big O" in Observer. CAIi 289-4712. Call Kelly, 4-3465 Hope you're having a great day! SALES & MARKETING Beautiful brass bed,queen size.with -love Kocka KBOC -· Happy loo Yearl Two 
INTERNSHIPS WALK TO SCHOOL orthopedic mattress set and deluxe years until midnight! University Directories offers 2·6 BEDROOM. STARTING $185 frame.New.never used,st1II in plas-Hiltz, paic1,full-11me summer sales arid MONTH/PERSON 232,2595 tic.$225 TICKETS Your finger gun See? I do think of you when I'm at 
marketing inlernships,open to all 219-862-4043 
may be bigger than work. disciplines.College credit avail-NICE HOMES FOR NEXT ND/MICH my finger guy, 
able.Training program.Great SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND Computer 486 33MHz HOCKEY GAME but I've got more I'm going to send you on a one way resume booster! 1 (800)743-5556 8.6,4,3,BEDROOM 2773097 $350 080 x3533 PLEASE CALL 4-3441 talent with it. trip to Minorca 
--_________,.....,....,... ---------.
. • .... 
Thursday, January 21, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 15 
¦ TENNIS 
Williams advances in Australian Open third round 
Associated Press 
MELBOURNE 

Two days aflcr declaring it was not lrnr fate to fall in the first round of the !\.ustralian Opnn, and divining a way out of 11 third-set prf)dicamcnl. Venus Williams dticided all is right again in lmr world. 
Williams' confidence always bordnrs on cockiness, a trait lhut cl<wsrt't quiLn nnd!lar hnr to follow playPrs. But wlwn s!rn's on, sho's got t!w gmnn lo back il llfl. 
And Williams was, indeed, on W1\tlrrnsclay night. Pmforming, nol just playing. (;lowing under Urn lights in her banana-yellow halter tnp and crayon-colored !wads. Hmtching out with those long, rubbery arms aud crack­ing winmirs from every conceiv­able position. Drumming base­lin!l shots and fairly pirouetting to thn n,•t for oV<'rfwad smash­os. Hipping serves at up to 117 mph, a lournamnnt high for women. 
Thu l'il'th-s1Hrdnd Williams spoll(id Swednn's Asa Carlsson tho first two games, then rnolod off tlw ,wxt 11 en rouw lo a 6­
2. fi-1 romp and a berth in the third round. 
"I gunss I clisplaynd thn more nwdnrn V11nus," Williams said. "Thn first round was thn Vnnus f'rom lhc '80s that disappearnd a lnng linw ago, bncausn I real­ly quit playing thosn type of' 111atclrns. unlnss I was playing s011won1• likn thn No. l playPr. I !'Pally don't want to go through that anymorn. 
"I was Vt'ry happy tonight lwn111sti I was able lo have morn control of my game. 
Everything that I had been practicing was roally coming together." 
Asked what she did to turn herself around afler the close ca.II in the first round against Croatia's Silvija Talaja, who finally yicldHd at 9-7 in the third set, Williams said she looked lo her younger sister Serena for inspiratiun. 
"I watched Scrona's example, how to put an opponent away, and wondered whv I wasn't doing those things.~' Williams said. "Sh11 play11d a girl who was really hitting tho ball well. She hil it flat and deep, and Serena Look care of it. She said. 'Venus, what's the problem?' I'm supposed to set a bolter mcample for lmr." 
If the "mud11rn Venus" slicks around and doesn't revert to the '80s version. sho could bo on her way to a quanerfinal duel against top seed Lindsay Davenport, who bas won six ol' t11cir seven matches. 
"In the past I have had some trauma against lwr," Williams said. "Every lime she played nm. she has del'initnty had to play her bnst. No malter who I'm playing, they know they're going to have lo play their best to b(iat me. Whether I'm play­ing good, whether I'm playing bad. /\nd she has donn that and gonfl alrnad and defoatnd me. 
"In tlrn future, the very near future, I want to change that. She has made it known that she wants to be a competitor, a grand slam winner, a No. 1. I have made it known that I can be No. 6, so I have to do bet­ter." 
The U.S. Open men's finalists. 
Australians Patrick Rafter and Mark Philippoussis, moved within a victory apiece of' a fourth-round confrontation. 
Hafter had little trcJUblc dis­patching compatriot Mark Woodforde 6-2, 6-4, 6-4. Philippoussis. though, had all he could handle against Michael Chang before eking out a 7-6 (1), 2-6, 6-:~. 5-7, 7-5 vic­tory. 
Philippoussis survived not only on the strength of his serve -he had 24 aces and only two ­double faults to Chang's 13 and 5 -but in the way he went for winners more often from the baselinf': and the net. That showed up in lhe statistics, with Philippoussis accounting for 95 winners to Chang's 43, and a correspondingly higher number of unforced errors, 78-31. Philippoussis, essentially. was willing to take more chances, and in the end that paid off. 
"It was hard sometimes to be aggressive on his serves because he would get the first serve in right away, and I start­AP Photo ed playing defensive," Chang Fifth-seeded Venus Williams advanced to the third round of the 

said. Australian Open Wednesday night with a 6-2, 6-1 victory. 
Mac & Window Software at Academic Prices! 
Notre Dame Students and Faculty receive up to 75% off retail prices on software. Call now for FREE delivery on all orders until 1 /25/99! ADW 1-800-333-8571 

< 


Inter·ns·h···-,·p·s,.. and: ,..ea/clh.. ,,•nlg,
. _ · . i .. · · ·• : \ ) _r '. J ) . • : . .. , : : I 1 _ f 1 _. .:' i . : .1. , 
. 

Positions Availablel . 
Applications & Information posted outside L058 College of Business Administration or at http://www.nd.edu/--ndcibd/ ­Due: Wednesday January 27th to L058 COBA 
NDCIBD All-Council Recruitment Meeting • 
TONIGHT at 7:30PM Jordan Auditorium, College of Business Administration 
Notre Dame Council on International Business Development 
~-----:----­
page 16 

The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, January 21, 1999 
¦ OLYMPICS ¦ OLYMPIC SPORTS 
IOC investigates '98 Athletes seek duplicate ITiedals 
bid from Nagano 
Associated Press 
NAGANO 
Some IOC officials inspecting Nagano as a site for the 1998 Winter Games were entertained by geisha paid by the city's bid­ders. 
"We couldn't very well have had the governor pour drinks,"Sumikazu Yamaguchi, a senior member of the bidding committee, told The Associated Press on Wednesday. "All they did was pour drinks and per­form Japanese dance." 
Ile said they were not prosti­tutes, although some geisha are. 
Most International Olympic Committee of'licials did not. get entertained Japanese-style by geisha during Nagano's 1989­1991 bid because they pre­ferred to stay at Western-style hotels, Yamaguchi said. 
IOC officials being offered prostitutes are among the accu­sations to have surfaced in the bribery investigation at Salt Lake City. 
The IOC has said it is prepar­ing to expand that investigation to other host cities, heightening scrutiny of Nagano's bid. 
Last week, Yamaguchi acknowledged that the bidding committee's expense records, which have been missing for years, had been intentionally destroyed in 1992. 
Nagano M_ayor Tasuku Tsukada, one of the top officials of the bidding committee, said Wednesday the destruction of the books reflected the 
• 

"Japanese way of doing things." 
Tsukada said he left the deci­sion of how to destroy the expense books to other officials. 
The expenses were approved at the committee's general meeting and that meant; as a matter of course, that the records could be destroyed, he said. 
"ln Japan, thal means it's all done an.cl finished,"Tsukada said from his office. "We just followed the Japanese custom," 
It was widely understood that IOC officials didn't want their activities in Nagano to be known, Yamaguchi said. 
And so he had the books picked up with other city hall papers set to be disposed. They went up in smoke in 1992, less than a year after Nagano won the games. 
"I just did my job,"Yamaguchi said. "I have never done any­thing against my conscience." · 
Increased scrutiny of Olympics sites has also prompt­ed Nagano officials to disclose that they gave at least two expensive gifts to the IOC before the city was chosen for the games. 
Yamaguchi said he delivered a painting by famous Nagano painter Eisetsu Shiratori, believed to be worth thousands of dollars, to IOC president Juan Antonio Samaranch while he was visiting Tokyo. 
Samaranch has said there is no limit on the value of gifts he can accept because he does not vote in the selection of host cities. 

en,or

rans1t1on 
etreat 

Friday, February 5 through Saturday, February 6 
A perfect opportunity to reflect on transitioning beyond Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Please take advantage of this chance to share your hopes and expectations while 
..... 
having a great time with other seniors . 
Sign up at Campus Ministry or The Center for Social Concerns 
by Monday, January 25 

• 
O\/v1PU5 -~NISTRY 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
The White House will try to have duplicate medals award­ed to Olympic athletes known to have lost to competitors using illegal drugs, the federal drug czar said Wednesday. 
Barry Mccaffrey, director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy, plans to pursue the matter at next month's world doping summit despite the IOC's recent rejection of at least two similar pleas. 
"Our voice should be listened to," he said, noting two-thirds of the International Olympic Committee's revenue comes from U.S. television networks and corporate sponsors. 
Last month, the IOC turned down requests from the U.S. Olympic Committee and the British Olympic Association for duplicate medals for swim­mers beaten by East Germans in the 1976 and 1980 Games. 
Recent testimony in Germany has shown that the winning East German athletes were helped by banned steroids administered as part of a secret government pro­gram. 
The IOC said it was impossi­ble to rewrite the record books, despite court evidence. 
"We need to look at the notion of supplemental medals when ii can be proved in the courts where medals were lost to chemically engineered com­petition," Mccaffrey said. 
McCaffrey said he had asked USOC president Bill I-lybl at a White House meeting Wednesday to add 1972 Olympic marathon champion Frank Shorter to his delega­tion to the summit ·in Lausanne, Switzerland, Feb. 2­4. 
Shorter is considering pur­suit of a second gold medal from the 1976 Olympic marathon, where he finished second to East Germany's Waldemar Cierpinski. He says evidence from files of the Stasi, the East German secret police, show that Cierpinski also was involved in the dop­ing program, and that infor­mation will eventually wind up in court. 
"This is a related issue to 
what is really most important, and that is trying to help the IOC know what is really going on," Shorter said by phone from his Colorado home. 
HP. said his interest in drug issues has been heightened in recent years by the success of his 19-year-old son in distance running at the University of Colorado. 
"I want to do everything 1 can so he feels it's not neces­sary to resort to illegal drugs to compete and win at a high level," Shorter said. 
Last November, McCaffrey's office announced an unprece­dente d $1 million federal pledge toward research for drug testing in sports. He said Wednesday that was a "down payment" on future govern­ment action but denied federal funding would be linked to the medals request. 
"We arc pursuing arguments on an emerging, universal opinion that we have to pro­tect the beliefs of 12-year-olds that you don't have to use drugs and there will be a level playing field if you chose to compete," he said. 

Help fund our gift to the University, The Statue 
Christ The Teacher 



' I• , I ' I
-----· -----------. ---­

·--~p-----._,_..........,_..-~,--~------~-~-------­
Thursday, January 21, I999 The Observer• PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
position of the Blessed Sacrament 
onday, 11:30 pm until Tuesday, 10:00pm, 
t. Paul's Chapel, Fisher Hall ridays, 12 noon until 4:45 pm, Lady Chapel, asilica of tile Sacred Heart 
reshman Retreat #21 (February 2-13) Sign-Up 
03 Hesburgh Library, 112 Badin Hall or see our Rector 
Celebration in Honor of Dr. Martin her King, Jr. The Nonn of reatness: Daring to Seek the Truth 
hursday, January 21, 6:00 pm, LaFortune 
allroom: Dialogue with underrepresented 
tudents on their ND experience 
reshman Retreat #20 
riday-Saturday, January 22-23, St. Joe Hall 
earning to Talk About Race etreat 
riday-Saturday, January 22~23, Lindenwood 
DE Retreat #54 
riday-Sunday, January 22-24, Fatima 
losing Mass for Pop Farley Week 
unday, January 24, 4:00 p.m., Farley Hall 
usic by the ND Handbell Choir 
DE #55 (February 26-28) 
ign-up 
onday-Friday, January 25~ 29, 103 .. · 
esburgh Library 
ector Auditions for the JPW Mass 
onday-Tuesday, January 25-26, 4:00 pm, asilica of the Sacred Heart. You need only how up one of the evenings to audition. uesday, January 26, 7:00-8:30 pm, Badin all Chapel 
ampus Bible Study 
uesday, January 26, 7:00-8:30 pm, Badin all Chapel 
mmanus Kick-Off 
ednesday, January 27, 6:30-7:30 pm, aFortune Ballroom 
fricentric Spirituality: Sankofa cholars Awards Assembly 
hursday, January 28, 5:30 pm 
Second Sunday in Ordinary Time Weekend Preslders at Sacred Heart Basilica Saturday, January 23 Mass 
5:00 p.m. Rev. Paul V. Kollman, C.S.C. .. 
Sunday, January 24 Mass 
10:00 a.m. Rev. Mark L. Poorman, C.S.C. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. Patrick M. Neary, C.S.C. 
Scripture Readings for this Coming Sunday 
1st Reading Isaiah 8: 23-9: 3 2nd Reading 1 Corinthians 1: 10-13, 17 Gospel Matthew 4: 12-23 
THE GRAY DAY SOUTH BEND BLUES 
Jim Lies, C.S.C. 

It's not a simple matter to overcome the forces of nature, particularly when they come in the form of a successive string of cold gray days. It doesn't help that we're just back from a long break where we re-learned how to sleep in and how to go out. But, nonetheless, we're back at it, back in the Bend and back to the books. So what now? How do -we bring color and life to these days that might otherwise be lost in an endless morass of dreariness? How do we prevent the weather from becoming the determinative factor in our lives? 
I can't say that I know any better than you, but that doesn't mean that I'm not going to attempt an answer. I think that we can all agree that the most important thing about life is relationships, relationships with our families, our friends, and most importantly with our God. The best of them can overcome the dreariest weather, and the worst of them can dampen even the sunniest day. It occurs to me that, in many ways, we come to know ourselves a_ good deal better when we interact with others in our world, and we come to know God and the stirrings of the Spirit in our lives when we take the time to attempt to articulate how we've experienced God in the circumstances of our lives. But oddly enough, as true as that may be, we don't often take that time. How often do we stop to consider how God has been present to us in our day? And how might we better be about the business of that reflection? 
Many students within the Notre Dame community have expressed the need for a place where young women and men can come together to share their jouney of faith, to gather socially, and to reflect on the things that matter in their lives. The Office of Campus Ministry has a program called "Emmaus" that attempts to facilitate just such gatherings. Emmaus is a program which intends to bring together students who want to enter into dialogue with others about faith and relationships, about God and about life. Like the travelers on the road to Emmaus who recognized Jesus in the stranger, we want the same for you. We want all who would join us to know the same joy and hope that those original travelers experienced in meeting Jesus along the road. 
Our having been at Notre Dame, regardless of the weather, won't mean much if we don't walk away from this place at the end of our tenure here with some significant relationships. And we believe that none of those relation­ships will amount to much on the long term if they are not rooted in the one and essential relationship with Jesus Christ. It is that which we should be about in these days. The danger, especially among the upper class students, is that we assume that we've met everyone we're going to meet here; that some­how, all the friendships that will mean anything to us on the long term have already been formed. You need only ask someone who has spent a semester overseas to know that an experience like that can seriously shqke up your friendships. And still further, there are countless Notre Dame graduates who met their spouses in their last semester here. But it means taking some chances, and it means making friendship a priority among those many things that compete for your time. 
Emmaus isn't the only way to get at this important task, but it is one of the ways. We would welcome any and all who are interested in gathering with others to share faith and Scripture to join Emr.i;i<;1us. There is an ongoing enrollment through the Badin Office of Campus Ministry, but the sooner you sign up, the sooner you'll be placed with five to seven others in a group. You also have the option of signing up as a group if you wish to deepen your rela­tionships with already existing groups of friends, such as those with whom you spent time overseas, or those with whom you live in your section, etc. 
This is no small matter. Our very happiness in life is wrapped up in our efforts to deepen in faith and in relationships. I know what you're thinking... "Hey, that's something I could get into ... but I'm too busy just now.'' The next logical question is to ask yourself: "When won't you be busy?" 'It would be a great shame if throughout our lives we were just too busy to be about that which could have made us most happy. Know that Campus Ministry wants to help in any way it can to get at the most important questions of life. Please contact our offices to find out more about all that we do. And if you're inter­ested in joining an Emmaus group, there will be a Emmaus Community Night, on Wednesday, January 27, 1999, in the Lafortune Ballroom. It will be an evening gathering for all who have been or wish to be a part of Emmaus. 
And cheer up. The sun'll come out tomorrow.. er, maybe next week. .. well, by April anyway! 
.. 
I¦
(2\MPUSMINISTRY 

,. 
-aq:.-.. 
page 18 The Observer• SPORTS Thursday.January 21, 1999 
¦ NBA 

Trade rumors fly as lockout officially ends 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
The NBA lockout was official­ly settled this afternoon, and teams were told they can begin signing players, making trades and opening training camps at 2 p.m. EST Thursday. 
"We have an agreement, and we expect to have the deal signed tonight," league spokesman Chris Brienza said. 
Teams can immediately begin talking to their players, some­thing that was forbidden since commissioner David Stern and union director Billy Hunter agreed two weeks ago on the terms of a new collective bar­gaining agreement. 
Opening night is less than 2 1/2 weeks away, and the NBA is expected to release a new schedule by the end of the week. 
"It's just a relief to know it's behind us," new Chicago Bulls coach Tim Floyd said. "We have a chance to sit down and visit with-players, talk to players, which is what this is all about." 
Earlier today, Day 204 of the longest and costliest work stop­page in league history, the laborious task of reducing the settlement into written form hit a few last-minute snags after lawyers for the owners and players spent the whole night meeting. 

In the meantime, the rumors kept corning and the plots kept twisting as teams maneuvered to get ready for the scheduled Feb. 5 start of the season. 
"It'll get done. It always gets done," agent David Falk said. "This just gives us more time to talk to people and refine our numbers." 
The main sticking point between the sides had been whether the new middle-class exception can be used for a three-year contract (the league's contention) or a six­year contract (the union's con­tention). 
The union won that argu­ment, but a final soag devel­oped over the league's insis­tence upon having discipline authority over agents involved in salary cap circumvention. Another snag concerned whether bonus money would be counted in trade calculations. 
It was not immediately known how those issues were resolved. 
Rod Strickland, meanwhile, was miffed at the offer the Washington Wizards made. The Washington Post said the Wizards offered $30 million for three years, with two additional years non-guaranteed, and had given Strickland a deadline of midnight tonight. 
"I don't think he'll be back here," Falk told The Associated Press today. "We're trying to get him to New York. He loves it that they have (Latrell) Sprewell, Allan Houston and Larry Johnson there, and he thinks they can win a champi­onship. I'd like to get him there so Patrick (Ewing) can win a championship." 
Falk was exploring other options for Strickland, including several sign-and-trade deals that would send last season's NBA assist leader to another team. He said four or five teams were making bids, but refused to name anyone other than the Knicks. 
Dennis Rodman added u strange subplot to Tuesday's events as his agent, Dwight 
Manley, announced that 
Rodman was retiring. Hours 
later, the league's leading 
rebounder for the past seven 
seasons said he was more in a 
state of "limbo" than retire­
ment. 

And Antonio McDyess put off 
until today a decision on where 
he'll play -Denver or Phoenix 
-but several signs seemed to 
be pointing to the Nuggets. 

"It defies logic, in my opin­ion," Suns owner Jerry Colangelo said of the delibera­. tions concerning McDyess. "We think this is a great spot for him. He seemed very happy here. We love him as a young guy and a future star in this league. But a lot of things have 
happened this offseason." 

The Tom Gugliotta rumors 
were strong, too, with the 
Nuggets, Suns and Lakers all 
interested. A source close to the 
Lakers said the team was otTer­
in g Elden Campbell, Eddie 
Jones and rookie Sam Jacobsen 
to the Tirnberwolves in a sign ­
and-trade deal for Gugliotta. 

The Nuggets were wondering 
whether they would be spurned 
by Gugliotta in the event that McDyess stays in Phoenix. If so, they were expected to look to sign free-agent center Vlade Divac. 
But no event symbolized Tuesday's craziness like the "retirement" of Rodman. 
''I'm not going to play this year," Rodman told Fox Sports News. "I am in limbo, but I'm not going to say I'm retired." 
That's not how his former coach heard it. In a strange twist earlier in the day, Chuck Daly of the Orlando Magic said he heard Rodman was traded to the New York Knicks for Buck Williams -a rumor that was quickly shot down. 
Also Tuesday, it was learned that John Starks and Chris Mills are the players wh·o will be traded from the Knicks to the Golden State Warriors for Latrell Sprewell. Word of the Sprewell trade got out Monday night, just a few hours after another major trade was revealed -Scottie Pippen from the Chicago Bulls to the Houston Rockets. 
The Bulls also have sign-and­trade deals worked out for Luc Longley and Steve Kerr. 
¦ SPORTS BRIEFS 


JAZZ DANCE ,.:;..,come to th~ Rolfs:,Sports .· . · ......·• .•. .·enter ,, 
Activity R.oom 2 to get more. information .. ;Classes will meet Saturdays from 12:30~2 p.m. and.Tuesdays from}:45•9 p.m. Cost is $35. For additional information, pleai,e contact 
RecSports at 1-6100. ·. .. . •-<; < < · . 
SWING DANCE.· -.Alllevels are...:wektlm~ ·· eth~st~r;long course that meilts oh'W~dtres~a:v~•f·f i:r:m.·in · RSRC Activity Room 2 ;To find out more, ple ... ·... .. . the infor~ mation meeting being held at 6:30 p,ni:. on y\le,dJ1"1s!lay in the RSRC. Cost for the class is $20 and spaee ls lh;rdte~ to the first . 25 females and 25 mates that re ·ster. Ifyuti ····· · ques~ · tio_qs: p}{):.ise contacf }l~c~p?r~ at 
· ·· ···· 
MODERN DANCE 'This,:chtss> . abilities. ··semestet.long;course,that.'·~r,ni 
:11~,~~i:.

12:30 p.m. arid Tuesday 6:30-7 ;4:tp.J,!1, CQst for:fti. s'iS$3s;
00. .....

For more information, please contast·R.ecSportsat BEGINNER BALLET....:....No experiente necess~ry hisintro­duction.. to ballet. Cla$s meetsS.und4yJ.•~.::30p:tn., hurs9af.,, 
6:304:45 p,m. in RSRG Aqtivity ~oom 2; QYsl.ft? .e.. crass·is·
$35. . ·. ·... . ······ •.• .. ... ·•··· 
ADVANCED BALLET'-This semester long courstfmeets on Sunday 2:30-4 p.m. and Thursday 7:45 -9 p.m, Costfor the class is $35. Pointe will be offered on Sundays 4-4:45 p.m. Cost forPointe is only $5. 
SHORlN·RYU KARATE ~Studen~s are. instructef according 
to traditional Okinawan technique~,/I:llis serMster~l9ng. e9urse 
meets in Rockne 219 on Tuesdays and Thursdays.6~7;30 p.m. 
starting on Jan. 28. There will be a demonstration onTl.lesday, 
Jan. 26 in Rockne 219 at 6:30 p.m. Cost is $18 for the ~emester: 
You must register at RecSports. For more information, please· 
contact RecSports at1·6100. . . . . . .·· . . . .··..••· .· . . 
c1w5s-couNTRY Sl{I CLINIC~ 7ppt\l.Uthis ~.~9""Jo good. 
use!·Pick one or mor.e of thefolloWin~rdlnlcs··to attend;Jan. 23 
at 4 p.m., Feb. 6 at 10 a.m., or Fel;>,J~at 2 p.m. Come spend a 
Saturday on the snow covered NotmJ)ame GolfC:oiirse! Please 
register in advance at RecSports. Cost)s only $5. ·...· . 
SCUBA -This certification class begins Sunday, J11n. 24 and 
continues for seven Sundays.fro.m }:30-7:JO Pr~,; Ciassos 

WANT TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE IN THE LIFE OF A CHILD THIS SUMMER? 
COME FOR A JOB INTERVIEW TO WORK AT: 
CAMP SWEENEY 

A RESIDENTIAL SPORTS CAMP IN NORTH TEXAS FOR CHILDREN WITH DIABETES 
INTERVIEWS PRIDAY, JANUARY 22nd FROM 9:00 AM to 5:00 PM IN THE LaFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
Camp Sweeney is an equal opportunity employer. 
Celebrate President's Day 

r,B'{lj NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
for People. Not For Profit. 
'Must be a full time employee and direct deposit your net pay. 
www.ndfcu.org (219) 239-6611 (800) 522-6611 
l~I 
lndcpendent of the University 

Thursday, January 2 I, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 19 
¦ COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
Walker takes helm at N'Western 
As11ociated Press 
EVt\NSTON,lll. 

W1Htring a Northwcst1wn-pur­plc1 tk and a wide grin. Handy Walknr callm.l himsnlf tlw lucki­11sl guy in the world. Again. 
The coad1 at Miami of' Ohio Llw past nine snasons was intrn­d uccd as tlrn Wildcats' new coach W1Hl1wsday aftnrnoon. Il(i rq,laccs Cary Bnrm1lt, who was hirncl as Colorado's coach narlinr in Llw day. 
"I jusL keep having good thi1,1gs happen to nm," he said. ..You'rp looking at an old farm boy f'rorn Troy, Ohio, who didn't havt\ a whole lot of resources going l'nr him whon he came out of high schoul. I thank God rwery nighL I' Ill alive Lhat foot­bull is a ganw I could play. 
"It gave nm a chancn to do tlm things I want to do in life," ho addml. " ... And that's coach l'oolhall." 
Bariwtt's d npar Lu rn and Walker's hiring puts an ond lo a tumultuous fow wenks for Lim Wit.dents. Barnr\lt, who rnturrwd llw Wi!dc;.tts lo glory in 19')5 and I')96 with a trip to L!w llos<i Bowl and consoculivo Hi){ T('B championships. has 11irtod with IMving almost since lw arrived in livanston in latP l'JIJI. 
111• was a camlidate for jobs at UCI.;\ and Nntrn Damn, and linkr\cl lo jobs at GPorgia, Oklahoma and Tnxas. 
"We wnrP all sad coach Barnett left, lrnl what can you rlo?" sophomore otfonsive line­man Lance Clr•lland said. 'Tm PxcitPd l'or a rrnsh start." 
/\ml Walker is exdtml t.o givn his new players mw. The f'or­nwr Northwestern assistant is Miami's winningost coach, com­
piling a rncord of 59-3;,-5 in tlrn past 11i1w s1•asons. including a l 0-1 mark last ynar. I !is 51J vic­turit\S arP lwsl in school history. IL was Miami which handed 
Northwcst,~rn its only loss in LIH1 regular season during its 1IJ<J!j Hose Bowl ynar. a 30-28 victory. 
"WP wanted someone with Division I expHrinnce who had demonslrated a rncnrd of win­ning." athletic director Hick Taylor said. "Wo got tlrn person wt~ wl're at'tt!r." 
Walker is Urn latnst in a long line of couches to come out ol' Miami. Sid Gillman, Woody llayes, Bo Schcmbechler and Bill Mallorv all coached there. as did fnr.mor Northwestern 
'I'LL GET MY FEET ON THE 
GROUND AND HIT IT 
RUNNING. TRUST ME, ONCE I 
HIT IT RUNNING, f'M GOING 
TO GO REAL FAST.• 
RANDY WALKHR Nom11wEs-rc11N Hh,w Co11c11 
coach Ara Parseghian. 
"Harnly is !'or real, and wn've said that to thn people who have asked about him," said Joel Maturi, Miami's athl1itic dirnctor. "Northwestern is very fortunate to get a person ol' his charactnr and work ethic and passion for kids. Not to mention his ability to win games." 
Walknr isn't walking into an easy job. After years of perma­nent residence in the Big Ten basemonl -just two teams won four games after 1971 ­Barnett had the Wildcats in the Hose Bowl after his fourth sea­son. 
But Northwestern has fal­tered the past two seasons. The Wildcats went 5-7 in 1997 and :-1-8 last season. The school was ror:ked by a sports bntting scan­
dal that saw four former foot­
ball players indictnd Dec. 3 for 
allegedly lying about their gam­
bling activities. 

"I, for one, don't tend to dwell on the past," Walker said. "Lr~t's talk about going forward, where are we going tomorrow. Let's worry about gr.tting one day better as a football team. That's kind of how I start." 
Walker has only two weeks before national signing day for recruits. Aside from putting togetlrnr a new staff and getting familiar wilh his new players. he has to find a way to keep rncruits who might have been scared off by Barnett's impend­ing departure. 
''I'll get my feet on the ground and hit it running," said Walker, who met with his new players for the first time after the news conference. "Trust mn, once r hit it running, I'm going lo go real fast." 
Walker playod at Miami and was the loam's MVP in 1975. Drafted by the Cincinnati Bengals, he chose to stay at Miami as a graduate assistant under coach Dick Crum. He accompanied Crum lo North Carolina and spent 10 years tlrnrn as an assistant. IIr, then spent two years at Northwestern, whnre he coached the first back-to-back 1,000-yard rushers in school history -Byron Sanders and Bob Christian. 
When he was named coach at Miami on Dec. I, 1989, he inherited a program that had won two games over the two previous seasons and went 5-5­1 in 1990. fie had a winning record every season thereafter except 1993, when Miami went 
4-7. 

"I want to coacb at the high­est level and I want to coach in thn national championship," he said. "l believe Northwestern is thal kind of' program." 

¦OIITORE BAIKETBlll 

CO-IIDBIIII 
PICK UP APPLICATIONS OUTSIDE STUDB\IT ACTIVITIES OFFICE DEADLINE JANUARY 22 DEADLINE FOR INTERVIEWS JANUARY 29 
¦ COLLEGE BASKETBALL 

Hapless Panthers looking for answers 
Assodated Press 
PITTSBURGH, Pa. 
The problems on the court 
ar.e unpleasantly familiar, 
those off it are disturbing. 
Pitt's once-promising basket­
ball team is in a chaotic 
f'reefall,, its season in sham­
bles and its coach's future in 
doubt. 
Seven weeks after upset­
ting defending champion 
Kentucky to start 6-0 and 
move jnto the Top 25, the 
Panthers (9-8) returned 
home Wednesday with two 
more losses, t.wo fewer play­
ers and problems that thr1:1at­
en coach Ralph Willard's job. 
Eve.n before the Panthers 
finished a 86-65 loss Tuesday 
at Villanova, athletic director 
Steve Pederson was investi­
gating freshman guard Fred 
Primus' arrest earlier that 
day on charges of grand theft 
and receiving stolen proper­
ty. Primus was immediately 
kicked off'the team, 
The 19-year-old Primus .was charged with stealiug 
$2,200 worth of jewelry from 
a home in Malvern, a small 
community 25 miles west ol' 
Villanova. He was sent to 
Chester County prison on 
$10,000 bond, and a prelimi­
nary hearing was scheduled 
for Jan. 27. 
An outstanding shooter 
who played last season at 
Notre Dame Academy in 
Middleburg, Va .. Primus was 
averaging 4.4 points in 14 
games and was seen as a 
possible starter next season. 
Walk-on guard Jason Boyd, 
who apparently hostc;d a get­
together for some players 
Monday at his Malvern home, 
was dismissed for violating 
team rules. 
"We took Jason home to 
see his family and for his 
family to see him, and that 
facilitated the other thing 
!lhe theft incident)," Willard 
said. 
Starting guard Jarrett Lockhart and forward Ricardo Greer also did not play for what Willard termed a separate violation of team pollcy. But· Pederson said Wednesday they would play Saturday against Georgetown. Greer and Lockhart W(,re questioned about the theft, but were not detained and Malvern police said no more arrests were likely. 

"I have tried to bring this incident to closure as soon as we had the facts to make those decisions," Podorson said. ''We have been inl'orm(,d by the appropriate investigativi'\ authorities that they have no plans to take action against anyone else in this ma.her." 
Because of the disciplinary action, Pitt had nine players in unif'orm Tuesday, and only sev1m played. 
Point guard Kellii Taylor has missed the last six games for what Willard termed "personal reasons" and reportedly is undergoing alcohol rehabilitation. 
Willard's fivo-year ttrn uro has been n1arked by a suc­cession of undernchieving teams, player defections and a 58-74 record that is the second worst by a Pitt coach this century. 
But this is the first time that Willard's players have been involved in incidents that tarnish the university's image. 
"It's very sad," said Willard, who did not hold practice Wednesday. "l never would have expected this. If you would have asked me 1,000 times if this could hap­pen with this young man (Primus), I'd say no. It's a sad day for him. It's an embarrassment to our pro­gram and, rflttlly, to our kids." 
Pederson did not return phone calls Wednesday, but it is believed ho will under­take a thorough review of Willard's job performance once the season ,mds. 
The Panthers have had only one winning season ­18-15 in 19%-97 -and have never reached the NCAA tournament since Willard's hiring in 1994. His predecessor, Paul Evans, made five NCAA appearances in eight years. 
Keenan Hall proudly announces 1'1ial 1'1ie ~:Jrd annual 
Keenan Ren.1e 
ff'ill Le '1ield al 7:'.JO pm on January ~8, ~9, and :SO in Saini Mary's O'Laugblin ~uditorium. 
Tickets distributed: 


Wednesday. January 20, at 
1:30 pm at the O'Laughlin 
Auditorium ticket window Friday, January 22, at 2:00 pm at Gate 3 of the Joyce 
Center 

Keenan Revue t-shirts will also be on sale at these times for $10. 
page 20 The Observer• SPORTS Thursday, January 21, 1999 
¦ COLLEGE BASEBALL 

Irish, Ust place first in Big East preseason poll 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame Fighting Irish have been selected as the preseason favorite to capture the 1999 BIG EAST Baseball Championship by the league head coaches, it was announced today. 
ND junior shortstop Brant Ust was picked as the Preseason Player of the Year, while St. John's righty Kevin McGerry was selected as the Preseason Pitcher of the Year. Coaches were not permitted to vote for their own teams or players. 
Notre Dame returns 16 lettermen from a team that finished 41-17 a year ago, second in the BIG EAST with a 15-4 conference mark. The Fighting Irish are led by Ust, who was the 1998 BIG EAST Player of the Year. He topped the BIG EAST in hitting (.493) slug­ging percentage (.960) and on-base percentage {.530) in league action. He led ND with a .373 average and 18 home runs overall. Ust will be looking to become the first player in BIG EAST history to earn Player of the Year twice in his career. 
St. John's received three 
first-place votes and was 
picked se('.ond. The Red 
Storm are led by the pitch­
ing tandem of :\llcGerry and 
Patrick Collins. McGerry 
was chosen as the 
Preseason Pitcher of' the 
Year after a 6-2 record and 
2.06 earned run average last season. He was second 

on the team to Collins (79 since 1994. K's) in strikeouts with 62 Senior third baseman and was named a 1998 Angelo Ciminiello leads the Baseball America Freshman Friars after finishing sec­All-American. ond in the BIG EAST with 
Rutgers, the 1998 BIG 82 hits a year ago. EAST Tournament Preseason All-BIG EAST Champion, received the choice Matt Longo heads other two first-place votes the Villanova squad. The and was picked third. The sophomore second baseman Scarlet Knights are coming hit .393 in 1998 and was off their first conference second on the team with 12 title and will look to two­homers and 4 7 RBI. time All-BIG EAST First Pittsburgh, Boston College Team pick Pete Zoccolillo. and Georgetown round out The senior will be moving the preseason selections. to the outfield this season Second-year Panther head after earning conference coach Joe Jordano will look honors at first base the past to infielders Lou Melucci two years. and Joe Lydic to help 
West Virginia and Seton improve their conference Hall were picked fourth and finish. Boston College will fifth, respectively. The welcome a new head coach Mountaineers. 37-17-1 in for the first time in 10 years 1998, are led by preseason 3:s Peter Hughes takes the All-BIG EAST outfielder helm. The Hoyas are led by Lance Williams. The Pirates Preseason All-BIG EAST will be led by sophomore outfielder Sean Mignogna. righty B.J. Benik, also a The Preseason All-BIG choice on the preseason EAST team was also select­squad. SHU has made a ed, with 14 players earning league-best 12 appearances recognition. The top six in the BIG EAST teams in the BIG EAST will Championship. advance to the 1999 BIG 
Connecticut, Providence EAST Championship, being and Villanova followed at held at Waterfront Park in sixth, seventh and eighth. Trenton, N.J. for the first Senior designated hitter time ever on May 19-22. Clarke Caudill leads the The tournament champion Huskies, looking to make receives the league's auto­their first BIG EAST ma tic bid to the NCAA Championship appearance Championship. 
Big East Preseason 

Team  Pts  1998 Record  
1. Notre Dame  95  41-1 7  
2. St. John's  90  28-17-1  
3. Rutgers  86  33-16  
4. West Virginia  71  37-17-1  
5. Seton Hall  58  25-23  
6. Connecticut  52  25-17  
7. Providence  45  31-22-1  
8. Villanova  37  26-21-1  
9. Pittsburgh  31  12-27-1  
10. Boston  19  17-23-1  
11. Georgetown  18  22-34  

Save Big on Mac & Windows Software! 
Notre Dame Students and Faculty receive up to 75% off retail prices on all software. Call Now for FREE delivery on all orders until 1/29/99! ADW 1-800-333-8571 

THE 


is accepting applications for: 
1999-2000 
Editor-in-Chief 
Any undergraduate or· graduate student at the University of Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College is encouraged to apply. The editor-in-chief is entirely responsible for the operation ofThe Observer. Applicants should have a strong interest in journalism and pos­sess solid management, public relations, and communications skills. Previous newspaper experience and a background in writing and editing, while helpful, are not required. 
Applicants should submit a resume andfive-page statement to Heather Cocks by 5 p. m. Monday, January 25. For additional information about the position or application process, contact Heather Cocks at 631-4542, or stop by the office downstairs in South Dining Haff. 
Thursday, January 21, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 21 
¦ SAINT MARY'S SWIMMING 
Belles' Samreta a leader both in and out of pool 

By KATIE FURMAN Spores Writer 
Michelle Samrcta kneels as she cher.rs on the edge of the sw.immi11g pool, excitedly !"lashing lap i:ounts for her follow swimmers. 
lier deui<'ation is intense. She swims six times a week -and often twice per day ­aiming to break her own records. The NCAA rewarded her loyalty to the lanes by awarding her the No. 16 ranking in Division Ill f"or the l 00-mctcr breaststroke. 
Away from the pool. Samreta morphs into the Mli\A Saint Mary's represen­tative. the junior class trea­surer and an education major. 
And all the whil<~. she's get­ting ready for h!~r next rar.e. 
Samrnta is in her third year of racing in tho I00-mnter, 200-moter and relay breast­stroke. and she is in her sec­ond year of being a team cap­tain. 
"Swimming has b,~en such an important part of' my lil'e because it has affected me in so many ways," Samreta said. "It has helped me balance my time al Saint Mary's, as well as keep me involved in cam­pus activities and introduce me to a great group of The Observer/Liz Lans friends." 
Saint Mary's swimmer Michelle Samreta has managed to shatter school 
lier teammates likewise see 
records in the breaststroke through hard work and determination. 
MAKE THE TIME TO BLHLD A NEW 
SKILL WITH THE SUPPORT OF 
OTHERS...... 

Structured Group Offerings Spring Semester, 1999 
~--------, In 1'91alionshipswilh ot!Mn, it_ollen lffft>t iike ,1'1 lhe oUier person who Is sin!lfe-heno.dl, causing Ille problem&, but-of Iha Ihle rs acrually our
~motlon•I 
srylf of nl~wllh olt14"$ u,ars IIWilh;I 11w ~ From fllmiy lo
lnt•lllgence: An 
f~d$ to professors IQ ~.!he way 'Mt ~tha I arge effc,c:t on our
Important Wil'/ ot 
own h&?!'tness. And h«V!f'ICil "cenibral srnaru· or vallin; ~ umlN 
Being Smert 
doesn1 mN11 flat I per;on lcriOM hew 10 h&.,.. lulftllng confidant porsonal.____________. or WQrlt ,alali0<1ctllps. 
fir,o wt how to amance ygur rwlalionshi\)s wNI 'jlour lriend ..>d 1.,,-ily and how lo pn,par• for your 11pcoMing ln\eMIIWa. \.oam hOW \C Increase 'tOIM i.0-yo"" E!'Cl<lCiQn&i lMellgena -by IMmlng ~ yau1ul! and how 'l'CU ca11 txpand your Slrang91s lo rnak• your ralatlonsh.,s aSS\lred, c.l,ar, and tl'l)oyable 
u they can be! 
2 lkaslons: lUflday-Jenua,y 26, 1999 1nctf&bl\lllY 2, 19911-S;Q0-6:00 p.m. Sorin Room. ulortun. S111.:.nt C.,19r 
,-----------, Th• Myerttkiggs type lndlcalor i$ a C'Qllrnonly 1,1sad personality tMt whlcl'I give:$ a ~wiptlon of a pe-,,'a pel"IQftality ~-boU1 In terms ol .
P•nional Growth Using 
po.it,.,. ~•rislk:s as wa11 u p06Stlle waaknls:se:s. To. Myers-Bn1111$ IS •
The 
pop,.,ler tool used in corpolale 1"'111, oerHr counseling, ptfSOll:al growlh,
Myers-Briggs 
malital rollllons.'llp ,nti.ne,er,,ant, r;p,ltual Ql'l:IWth, u ...11 u lffll)roving 
Personality T.st 
r•la!ionsh111 lor pfKIPlt .,,Qri\lng or living tog1,llw1. "Tlti~ Is • ~ho11r,_tonL-----------' In vmiel\ 'P-J wiO be given 1h• ,.,ub of your Myerw·BriQII$ i.st with otheni who art also ini.m1,d !n 11111; a,n. Tll•r• will i,. lh;e lor que5\illn• ind dlacus;ion. 
pr~i$!1&11on s r11quirtd in ordtr 10 llke lhe 11,st b,,.,.. your aaslor1. 'l'ou rnust pr1111gls1er and •rr,nged to wk'• Iha 1as1 one week btlore ti-. scheduled Rfllon you .vant. The I"' lake,, about 3CM5 minutN and can be taken betwoe119 •·"'· al\d 4 p.m. t.1ond,y ~9hFrtdey. 1( ini.r.1tw, ple1$11 call !he UCC ¦t 631-7336. 
fither Frtd,y Jlfll.WY 29, t9!ilQ Noon 'IO 1:00 p.rn Notte Oarnt Room, Lafonvnt &,,dent C.-it,r 
or Wed"91day February 3, 1Jlli 5:~-00 ?-m Sorin !'loom, t..aronuni:: Stu~ent Center 
.---------, Go Into your weekffid f>a•llng gocxl about ywr 111111d and bo<!yl .TWO 3-•!0fl classes cosi,anaoml by R«Sporls .,.being held ¦I the bGauliM new facJijdes or
Relaxation 

ll'IG Rolfs Sports ~tereation Center. YOf) wiQ 11am a wrillly gf physical end met'ltal 
Training 

11ttmiq1,1n to~ ltt~ot ~1-.X-'ion .,d cam. H..-. •tt afew ol 1h• '"'¥1Y ,_________ benefi1s. ,e(kXIN anxklty u w.n" ot!,ors ~ptoms ol M&S; lncrea,es)'l)Ur ability lo~""•h•~ reduce y01.Jr <!aslra 10 uw nlcQline, alcohol, caffolne, ell:., 1r>d can tvCfl be u~ to f,ci!ilal& rwtful IINP. P~I• ~hculd -rcx,ml011ab4• c:lothmg. 
3 !leulons· ,rtday allemoons, 4:00 -i;;OQ p.m. 
Cius I'. J"11.19')' 211. FtbM,V 5, arid l"«>ruary 12 
Cius 11: Mard, 28. April§, end ~iii tt! 
Rtllilltsr in~-W "11er ant CJ{ botl'I QIMHC al l'lKSpol'IS; Ft•• S10.00 
ITht Tut Anllialy Rowl:lion W1111<$hop is ao,,. hour p<ogram wttlch T••t Anxiety \niroclucu -ws 1.0 manage unwanttcl enlli•t)' during pn1pan1tim for and .__-------· \ak~ el 1ut1 or e1111Smlnll1ion,. Aroo.._y man•ment lfv1in~ will be oneied in addition to ape,;ifi,; ll!Wf!JliQ~ on ~-IO ti.st tak• l1110-f11$a t6m, muldple clloic9 lest! ll"ld •ssay i.111. 
Monday February 15, 1999 N<1¢<1-f:OOp.m., Nol,. Oam• RQOfTI, Lalorturi. Sludanl ~tor l'UN!lay F9br\i:ary 16, 5:00 -ci·oo p.m~ Sor1n Room, Lalo<tuolt Sludtnt C.fl1411' MQndll',' Ap,11 19, NCOII • 1:00 p.m., Nolrt Own• Room, Lafol1UIII &udeol ~tr TUHday llpnl 20. 1999 -5:00 -15:00 PJI\ Soon Room, t~forur,e !iwdent Cantor 

Samreta as an excellent cap­tain, as well as a friend. 
"She welcomes everyone to the team and is always on the side chtJering. She· alwa.Ys tells us we did a good job and always pumps the team up and gets us ready to swim," s'aid freshman Cathleen Fitzpatrick. 
Said fre!'lbman Alicia Lesneskie, "She has con­tributed greatly as a captain b11causc she is always enthu­siastic and always encourages us at practice and meets." 
Samri~ta's tremendous ei1couragemcnt and dedica­tion has helped her brnak numerous school records. 
Her best time in the 100 breaststroke is 1:11 :36. and in the 200 breaststroke, 2:36:42. 
"She is training much hard­er this year than ever before, and her level of enthusiasm h,is reaclrnd a new high," s,tid head coach Jini Cook. 
But according to Samreta, the improvement in her skill is matched by a hcightennd mental attitude. 
"My mentality of the sport has improved tlrn most," said Sarnreta. "It is great because it has permeated other facets or my life. Every year is dil"­ferent physically, but as long as I am able to accomplish my personal best and stay men­tally strong, I am happy." 
Not only have her perfor­

¦ HOCKEY 
mances this ynar rnached new highs, but in past years she has left her mark as well. 
Freshman year she won Hookie or the Year honors, an award no longer givon. Additionally, slrn has broken tlrn Saint Mary's 100 breast­stroke rocords all three of' her years at Saint Mary's, and in her first two collegiat11 y!1ars broke the 200-breaststroke record. 
"Michelle has a winning altitude and puts everything shn can into every racn slrn swims," said senior Kolly Frnrnewald. 
"This shows in tlrn amount of races slrn has won and her place in the conforencn." 
Agn!ed senior captain Tara Thomas, "She has improved I... not only in her stroke but as a tnmn leader t.oo." 
Overall. Samreta leads by encouragemnnt and by exam­ple, pushing hersell" in hnr own swimming. 
"During practice she's the hardest worker, and wlrnn you need to work she's the first to say, 'Let's do it,"' said sophomore Olivia Smith. 
Said Cook. "She's just a wondnrful student-athlnte and represents tho epitomn of the student athlete. She's so well rounded and does a great job with time manage­ment," said Cook. 
"She's a wonderful example of a Saint Mary's athlete." 
Henning named CCHA Rookie of the Week 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame freshman cen­ter Brett Henning has been named the Central Collegiate Uockey Association rookie or the week, after playing a key role in the Irish weekend sweep of Alaska Pairbanks (6­2. 6-1). 
In the first game versus UAF on Jan. 15, llenning moved up from the third to the first line as a replacement for junior Hobey Baker candidate Ben Simon (who was serving a delayed one-game CCIIA sus­pension). 
Henning led the charge and registered an assist on sopho­more left wing Oan Carlson's second-period goal that held up as the game-winner. lie later scored his first power­play goal of the season and third overall in the third peri­od, giving the Irish a 6-1 lead. 
In the second game vs. UAF, Henning again set up the game-winner by providing the primary assist on the first career shorthanded goal by senior right wing Brian Urick, giving the Irish a 2-1 Sl!Cond­period lead. 
For the season, Ilenning has three goals and six assists as one of four Irish skaters to appear in all 22 games. 
He has totaled just nine penalties and owns a positive plus-minus ratio (+2). 
Use Observer Classifieds 
ROLFS SPORTS RECREATION CENTER UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Rolfs Sports Recreation Center Drop-In Recreation Schedule 
In-Line Hockey  Sundays  8:30-10:30  
Floor Hockey  Mondays  8:30-l0:30  
Indoor Soccer  Tuesdays  8:30-10:30  
Volleyball  Wednesdays  7:00-10:00  
Lacrosse  Thursdays  8:30-10:30  
Badminton  Fridays  7:00-10:00  

Come by Yourself, or Bring a Friend! 
All times are PM. Schedule is in effect only when classes are in session. 

...... 
Belles 
continued from page 24 
and the Belles began to look fatigued. They played hard until the end, but Adrian pulled it out 86-76. 
Freshman center Kelly Jones and sophomore guard .Julie Norman led the scoring for Saint Mary's with 18 and 12 points, respectively. 
"We shot our best game of the season," said Nikes. ''Unfortunately, we made men­tal mistakes. Its not physical anymore, we just need to get over those mistakes." 
Saint Mary's plays at Hope Co!IC'ge on Saturday and looks to start fresh with Lhe home game tonight against Olivet. 

1/23 l/27 1/30 2/3 
2/6 
2/9 2/13 2/16 2/20 
Thursday, January 21, 1999 

Saint Mary's Basketball Schedule 
Hope College  3:00 p.m.  
Alma College  7:30 p.m.  
@Olivet College  3:00 p.m.  
Kalamazoo College  7:30 p.m.  
@Calvin College  3:00 p.m.  
@ Albion College  7:30 p.m.  
Defiance College  3:00 p.m.  
Anderson University  7:00 p.m.  
@ Adrian College  3:00 p.m.  

Recycle The Observer 
The Observer/Jett Hsu 

Guard Danielle Green scored 15 points for the Irish as they have won their last five conference games. 
ished the game with 13 points, while Hills' 16 points tied both 
Irish 

her personal high and Riley's continued from page 24 game high.
Shooting just 27 percent who finished without a point from the field, Seton Hall was in the final 20 minutes and did unable to have any player not reach her average of 13.3 break into double digits in points per game. scoring. 
Riley ended the first half Erika Ashman and Moreno with a game-leading tally of were the leaders for the 14 points, and was followed Pirates with just nine points by a strong performance from apiece. forward Kelley Siemon, who Hit with 22 turnovers, they broke her average of a little allowed Notre Dame 31 points over five points a game with on the takeaways. eight in the half. Senior· Danielle Green keyed 
The second stanza was more that statistic with her quick­of the same, as the Irish ness on loose-ball pickups, turned a 23-point lead into a which constantly converted 33-point impossibility for play to the Irish half of the Seton Hall. Unable to score in court. Green also finished in the half's first six minutes, double digits for the Irish, Notre Dame had a 67-27 lead scoring 15 points. before Rouse scored a layup to The win gives Notre Dame a add two points. 14-2 record on the season, the 
The second-half drive came best ever start for an Irish with help from the Irish back-team. Undefeated in their last court. as Sheila McMillen and five, which have also been Sherisha Hills nailed several conference games, the Irish three-pointers to further mix maintain their No. 3 spot in up the attack. McMillen fin-the conference and a No. 9 
· ranking overall. 
Got Sports? Fill Us In! 1-4543 


:.BJJAlf 14GLI FAM.II.~• BILI.I.A.RDI 

Spring Break Setninars 
March 7-13, 1999 Experiential/Service Learning 
Center for Social Concerns 
APPALACHIA SEMINAR 
-> Work and learn at one of 15 sites in the Appalachian region · 
-> An ND tradition of service-learning 


L'ARCHE COMMUNITY SEMINAR 
-> Live for a week in community with persons with disabilities -> Read the work of Jean Vanier 
MIGRANT EXPERIENCES SEMINAR 
-> Work in the fields with migrant workers -> Assist agencies that serve migrants -> Live with migrant families 
WASHINGTON SEMINAR 
Theme: Violence and Nonviolence m American Life 
-> Direct c_ontact with political, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. 
-> Service and political awareness opportunities 


CIVIL & HUMAN RIGHTS SEMINAR 
-> Travel to key civil rights sites in the South (e.g., the King Center, the Nat. Civil Rights Inst.) 
-> Learn from leaders who were instrumental in dvil rights legislation and development 
-> A new and unique opportunity 
All seminars offer one academic credit (various departments) 
Applications Available Now at the CSC 
Applications Due: Jan. 28, 1999 
c EN r ER F o R 
SOCIAL Also: Deadline extended for the Mexico Seminar CONCERNS 

.,... 


.... 
.. 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WlZARD OF ND DAN SULUVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CoLLf€J/ UNfoRTVNAlt:LY, :__~-~--,:....-1 
ALl ! 


FOXTROT I CAN'T BELIEVE TH1S WALL CALENOAR YOIJ 80UG1'1T, PETER. I ),;  § !! ~ !  EVERY Molll'TH HAS A Pl-loTo oF A HALF• NAICED WoMAN.' Goo[) LORI>-M1SS J°UL'f 1S MoRE Lll<E '1'1Aoo'Ills 1(£1) I  NEED t REM1NO YolJ ll-lAT MOM ANO I Oo CoME INTo TlilS iooM ON 0CCAS1ot,1? DID ToU ., El/ER lrflNI( oF THAT, i MR. INSENS1T1VE? 'I_)I  BILL AMEND 1 MEAN, "YoV WHAT?? UlULO.VE AT ~ST EVERY T1ME GolTEN oNE WtTH You SEE ACollPLE of'HALF­ME IN MY NAkED MEN. S1<1VV1ESc:)J I You J\JST LAUGH. I  
DILBERT  SCOTf ADAMS  

CROSSWORD ACROSS 29 ---Rivieres, Que.
1 Thermometer 
30 Sheepskin

part 
holder 5 Early touring car 
31 Morgan of the e O.J. or hot comics page choc.,e.g. 32 --suiter 11 More anxious 33 Start of a 1973 Supreme Court 
13 Basra native 
decision 

16 Game played 
34 Barbecuing

with 192 cards 
block 1e "-.-company 
36 Response to a bailiff's question 19 Demand 
39 Preceding times 21 Bret Harte 41 Little-­character 
42 Book before 24 Park it Nehemiah 
43 Disconcerted 45 Brava maker 2501d flames 

26 What newbies write on-Ima 48 Bnng up 47 Notunter
27 Pleasantville, so to speak 48 "--who?" 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
....,,,,.,..,_:-+.-+.::1 14 Makes idealistic 15 Middle of a famous 
palindrome 17 Green land 20 Skiing maneuver 21 At a distance 

O G -=-t=t=+=+:=-N O N 23 Concertina, P I E ___......,............__ A P O informally 
49 Fall colors 50 Post-workout 

activity 52 Ready for a drive 54 75, in French 59 Surpass 60 Volcanologist's 
study 61 Lao-­62 It's at the top of a 
face 63 Son of Seth 
DOWN 

1 Clean tables 2 Prefix with lateral 3 Certain Big 
Apple train, with "the" 4 Early rite sNot pobre 6 Cries of horror 7 Eyeball 
e "Roma" symphonic composer 
9 "ER" actor LaSalle 10 Southwestern cowboy 12 Like logs 

Puzzle by Peter Gordon 
24 Cosmo feature 27 Sins 28--gratia 29 Tyke 32 Lemon peel 34 Place where 
a rose arises 35 Actress Merkel 37 "Shoot!" 38 Crew members 40 Foreman's 
declaration 42 Learned 43 Stole 
44 Battery, e.g. 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95it per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50years; 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Geena Davis, Richie Havens, Steve Reeves, Placido Domingo, I fakecm Olajuwon 
Happy Birthday: Don't get angry, get even. The greatest revenge is your own success. You can match anyone you come up against this year. Your competitive nature will help you win. Don't hang on to the past;.it will only slow yotl down. Look at the possibili­ties and move in whatever direction promises you the most. This is not the time to sit still nor is it the time to let obstacles stand in your way. Your numbers: 10, 20, 28, 37, 43, 49 
AfUES (March 21-April 19): Tem­per tantrums will be hard to control. Try not lo get into debates that may ruin your reputation or a good rela­tionship. Channel your energy into physical activities. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Trav­el for the purpose of arcomplishing unfinished business. Don't let others get in your way. This i5 not a day to waste on idle chalter, g,c•.;sip or trivial matters. 0000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Op­portunities for n.,r mce are evident. Take advantage oi situations that entail meeting new people. Your ener­gy is high. and groL1ps you join will welcome your stamina and aggres· siveness. 00 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Con­fusion may lead to deception regard­ing relationships if you have neglect­ecf to communicate with your mate. Don't allow your emotional attitude to affect your perlonnance at work. 
00000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Take care of any health problems that surface no matter how unimportant they seem. Go over your personal papers 

Birthday Baby: You are a most powerful individual. You set your cours,· and you don't back down or give up. You will always find a way to mash·• whatever is necessary in order to get what you want. You will do well through out life a.~ long as you remain focused and true to yourself. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web Sites at astroadvice.com eugenialasLco111, astromate.com.) 
¦ OF INTEREST 

Tho Medieval Institute -Paul Magdalino of St. Andrew's University will be giving a lecturn on "The Mind of Byzantinism" tonight at 5 p.m. in room 222 of the Hesburgh Library. This talk will be of interest to students and faculty in History.Theology, Art History, as well as fields of Medieval Studies. 
1 Summer Internship Information Meeting -The 
· lnternship Office Qf the Government Department invites students to attend the "Summer Internship Information Meeting" on Monday, January 25 f'rom 
4:30 to 5:30 p.m. in room 204 O'Shaughnessy. This meeting will focus in summer internship opportunities in government, application requirnments and academic credit requirements. AH students are welcome. 
Wanted: Reporters and Photographers. Join the Observer Staff. 
and sign the necessary documents Rest and relaxation arc in order. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Mal tcrs pertaining lo your career will b,· progressive and advantageous. You should be conversing with superiors and making them fully aware of your intentions. llclp will be given. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You can make money if you look carefully al the assets that you've already accu• mulated. Don't cause problems on the home front. Family members arl' not likely to agrre with your choices 
000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Inevitable changes regarding your residence and your emotional partner may be upsetting. Avoid extrava• gance. Purchases made for your horn,· will cost too much. 00000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21), Institutions will be easy to deal with today. Go over any red-tape issues that have been hanging over your head. You can make changes regar<l· ing investments and personal matters. 00 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19); Don't mix business with pleasure You are best to remain a mystery ti, co-workers. Gos~ip will surely back fire Ease the tension by minding your own business. 0000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will be lucky today. Money that you don't have to work for will becom,• available You will be recognized for your sincerity and your help. Look into personal improvements. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You, 

charm will attract new friends and 
lovers. Discrimination will be neces 
sary. Think twice before you let other• 
know too much about your person,,'. 
life and rour intentions. 000 
45 Actress Sherilyn 48 1984 Kentucky Derby winner 49 Sign on for 
another tour 51 Clumsy fellows 52 Garr with a 
"Tootsie" role 

53 Prefix with lateral 55 Houstonian's nickname 56 "Delta of Venus" writer 57 Madhouse 58 "Star Trek" off. 
Thursday, January 21 , 1999 Th.e Observer• TODAY page 23 
Make checks payable to: The Observer
The Observer 

and mail to: P.O. Box Q 'Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year
is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's D Enclosed is $45 for one semesterCommunity. 
Name _______________________ Join the more than 13,000 readers who have 
Address ____________________
found The Observer an indispensible link to the City ________ State ____Zip______
two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
. 4l 

¦ Belle swimmer 
¦ Brant Ust and the 
Michelle Samreta leads 

Notre Dame baseball 
the SMC swim team by 

squad ranked first in the 
example. 

Big East preseason poll. 
PORTS 
p.20 
p.21 

O 
THE 
Thursday, January 21, 1999 -.---------------­
BSERVER 

¦ NOTRE DAME WOMEN'S BASKETBALl 
Irish rout Pirates for best start in team history 
By ANTHONY BIANCO men and a pair of sophomurns Assistant Sports Editor against a Notre Dame team that has started four of the The attack was constant and same players since last sea­the defense stifling -there son. Sophomore center Huth was no question that the Irish Hiley got the ball rolling for dominated Seton Hall from the Irish right away, racking start to finish last night. up seven points to spark a 9-0 
The Irish made the hard­run and later, a 13-3 Irish wood seem more like a plank. lead. sending the Pirates off the Yolanda Rouse tried plug­doep end in a 87-47 blowout. ging the early leak by making 
The way that Notre Dame it a 17-10 game on two hits has outplayed Big East teams from the charity stripe just in recent games, the opposi­minutes later -but that only tion would be lucky to escape incited the Irish to take total with only a freefall to the sea control. As it embarkfid on a -instead, teams like Seton 15-0 run. the teamOs defense Hall have been battered by a prevented the Pirates from gameplan that is flawless establishing any rhythm, when executed to perfection. allowing them scoring drives 
First there have been of no more than four points. glimpses of it -an almost­The 6-foot-5 Hiley led the impenetrable zone defense, a stif1ing zone defense. The two­quick transition game and a time Big East player of' the balanced offensive attack to week rejected anything that keep the opposition guessing. managed to trickle inside, All those things usually con­swatting away seven shots verge to give the Irish a sec­during the contest. ond-half scoring surge. Sophomore Arminda 
But Wednesday, the Irish Moreno, Seton Hall's leading executed that gameplan from scorer this season, managed start to finish, upping their only a trio of treys in the first win streak to five-straight half', leading her team with games. nine points. The second half 
Seton Hall was at a disad­proved even more difficult for The Obsen,er/JeH Hsu vantage from the opening tip­the Canary Islands native, 
Junior guard Niefe Ivey and the Irish women's basketball team continued their Big East winning streak last off, starting with three fresh­
night, demolishing the Seton Hall Pirates 87-47. see IRISH / page 22 
¦ SAINT MARV'S BASKETBALL 

Belles' comeback falls short in loss to Bulldogs 
By MOLLY McVOY Bulldogs' center, Ann Clark. The Belles took near­, Spom Writer Terpstra. The six-foot-plus Jy every point they could center ended the game with from Adrian's fouls, shoot­
After a night of comebacks 29 points. ing .909 from the line in the and intense defensive play, "Size shouldn't matter," first half. At the end of the the Saint Mary's basketball said freshman forward Kelly first half, the score was 43­team lost a hard-fought Roberts of the Belles' diffi­40 Bulldogs. game against Adrian College culty with Terpstra. "If we The Belles came out and Wednesday night. had position, we would have scored three points quickly 
Adrian came out forcibly to start the second half. The in the first mfnutes of the game continued to be game, pulling out to a 9-0 aggressive and fast-paced. lead. This caused Saint but the Belles' defensive
'WESHOT OUR BFST
Mary's head coach Dave rebounding proved prob­
GAME OF THE SEA-
Roeder to pull the entire lematic. starting five and replace SON. UNFORTUNATELY WE Terpstra registered more them just two minutes into offensive rebounds for
MADE MENTAL MISTAKES.
the game. Adrian than the entire Saint "They're not just out IT'S NOT PHYSICAL ANY­Mary's squad did on the there to play. They've got defensive end; however. the
MORE, WE JUST NEED TO 
to get the job done," said Belles' defense and accura­assistant coach Darcy GET OVER THOSE MISTAKFS.' cy from the floor was very Nikes. "By putting five strong early in the second other players in there who half. 
DARCY NIKES 

were going to get the job Saint Mary's actually shot done, we really raised the SMC ASSISTANT COACH its best game of the season level of intensitv.Within percentage-wise, shooting seconds of this replace­.379 from the floor and .313 ment, Saint Mary's went on been okay." from behind the 3-pt. line. a 5-0 run and soon closed But led by scrappy The Belles took the lead the gap to 11-7. defense from sophomore with 10:49 left, but could 
But problems surfaced guard .Julie Norman. the not seem to build on it. They again, as some careless Belles caused turnovers and played with the Bulldogs passing and missed took smart shots. They and the lead continued to rebounds by Saint Mary's pulled the score to 37-34 change hands for the next allowed Adrian to take a 19-with 3:00 left in the first few minutes of play. With 9 lead. At this point in the half. 6:28 remaining, Adrian game, it became clear that With 1:55 remaining, the pulled out to a 72-65 lead the Belles were having diffi­Belles took the lead on two culty defending against the foul shots by guard Amy 
see BELLES/ page 22 


Basketball 

vs Rutgers at Northern Michigan 
vs Hope College

Saturday, noon Friday, 7 p.m.
SPORTS 
Saturday, 3 p.m. 
ATA 

Men's Swimming 
Women's Swimming 
vs St. John's 

at Western Oncario at Michigan 
Sacurday, 7 p.m. 

Saturday January 30 
GLANCE 





