
.... 
¦ • ' ('", ' 'l I ,•. ,, •·• < " · '· \ ,. • .,. · > 
Friday

.'\i 'i t , l i i I \ l\(. /\ t-~ t . .J \ F ) l{. J.
¦ 

German poet Goethe's remains put on display in 
Scene predicts who will win the top prizes at rhe museum 30 years after discovery. 
Oscars Sunday. 
MARCH 19,

World and Nation • 16 
Scene• 16 
1999 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 107 
¦ NEWS ANAlYSiS 
Russia resistant to NATO expansion 
By MIKE ROMANCHEK "Hussia's resistance to further maintain its former role as an equal News Writer NATO expansion is largely a rhetori­with the U.S., even though Russia is 
c a I tactic designed to make the no longer a superpower." 
NATO's acceptance of the former process more difficult for the West," Most of the negative sentiments are Eastern Bloc nations of the Czech according to adjunct professor Mark coming from Russian· political figures Hepublic, Ilupgary and Poland has Jubulis. "Proponents of NATO expan-rather than average Russian citizens. 
spurred hopes for development in these countries but has also brought about sharp criticism 
' 0 USSIA WOULD RATHER HAVE DISPUTES
from Russia. 
1'.sETILED BY OSCE AND THE U.N . ...
While Russia works to over­
come economic woes, it must THAN NATO BECAUSE IT HAS A VOTE WITHIN now also deal with the Pncroachment of NATO on three THESE ORGANIZATIONS.' 
of its former Iron Curtain allies. Thn three nations joined NATO's ranks on Friday, just prior to NATO's 50th birthday next month. 
Russia has openly opposed NATO expansion because it views the Pxpansion as a sign of Russia's weak­1wss following the Cold War. 
MARK JUBULIS 

The Russians are attempting to "undermine NATO effective­ness" because Russia is not part of NATO, according to a March 13 New York Times article. 
"Russia would rather have disputes settled by the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (0SCE) and the U.N. than NATO 
because it has a vote within 
ASSISTANT PROFESSOR, GOVERNMENT these organizations," said Jubulis. Russia has also complained 
sion focus on the issue of expanding  that the  NATO  expansion  is  an  
the zone of stable democracies, while  
Russia feels excluded and is trying to  see NATO I page 6  

WWW. ND.EDU/~OBSERVER 
Slow travel 
delays Spring 
Break trips 
By ALISON HEINZ News Wrirer 
While many are still enjoying the relaxing benefits of a spring break spent in a warm, sunny, tropical location, some N,otre Dame students are recovering from botched spring break travel plans that made mid-terms seem like a picnic. 
A group of students that made arrange­ments to spend a week in Negri!, Jamaica, left Chicago a day later than originally planned with no explanation. When the group did board a plane, a bus hit the plane. Although no injuries were reported, the trip 
see TRAVEL / page 4 


As the Spirit of Inclusion aims to include all people under its very spirit, some professors and students on campus and around the country disagree as to the true spirit of the dec­laration. Contrary to the declaration, all students and faculty do not feel welcome at Notre Dame. · 

Spirit of Inclusion contested by campus voices 
By JOSHUA BOURGEOIS News Writer 

At the end of a battle of numerous rallies, heated edi­torials. confidential meetings and extensive proposals, the Spirit of Inclusion was the winner &nd the addition of sexual orientation to the non­discrimination clause was the loser. 
But, is the Spirit of· Inclusion enough? Is it going to provide an atmosphere open to homosexuals? More importantly and probably least mentioned, is this atmosphere going to hurt the recruiting and retention of professors who might be homosexual? 
Last November, assistant professor of history at Carnegie Mellon Scott Sandage wrote a letter to the editor published in The Observer that addressed two major problems at Notre Dame. One was that several members of the gay commu­nity believe that the Spirit of Inclusion does not adequately provide equality. The other is the whether or not Notre Dame will be able to acquire quality professors, without regard to their sexual orien­tation. 
In a statement urging Notre Dame to accept adding sexual orientation to the University's non-discrimination clause, Sandage described the University's reputation in academia as unsupporting of homosexuals. He also claimed that professor Gregory Dowd invited him to apply to the University for a professorship position. 
"I had to inform professor Dowd that however much I might want Notre Dame. Notre Dame would not want me because! am openly gay," he said of his response to the offer. 
Sandage further expressed his disappointment with the 

University's actions regarding GLND/SMC and. the removal of a top job candidate in the College of Business Administration because he revealed his sexual prefer­ence to the search chair. 
The Carnegie Mellon assis­tant professor thinks that "such widely known incidents mar the reputation of a dis­tinguished university and c&n only harm Notre Dame's efforts to recruit new facul­ty." 
In his letter, Sandage said that universities should be leading the way into the future rather than the past. 
Notre Dame to have an atmosphere of equality. For this reason. he believes the University should adopt the non-discrimination clause. 
Members of the University faculty are divided on the effectivennss of the Spirit of Inclusion. which is Notre Dame's official statement on sexual orientation. Some feel that it is an adequate state­ment in accordance with Catholic teaching and others feel that it is not enough. 
"The Spirit of Inclusion is a statement that is open and welcoming to the gay commu-

Furthermore. he expected see INCLUSION / page 8 
... 

Friday, March 19, 1999
page 2 The Observer• INSIDE 
¦ INSIDE CDUJMN 

Promoting Animal Rights 
It often surprises me how much some animal rights activists prioritize the righl'i of our little friends in the wilderness. I can't help but notice that some even venture to place all crea­tures on equal footing 
Dustin Ferrell
with humans, and not 
Viewpoint
just U.S. vice presidents. 
I can't say I agree with 

these so-called rights as defined by many. and I 
took it upon myself to define the rights of ani­
mals as I see fit. 
Right to lvlarinate 

This right co-exists with the right to bake, right to barbecue, etc. Fairly self-explanatory, this provides animals with the ability to taste wonderful. 
Right to Swift Cooking 

To respect the dignity of each meal. a swift cooking ensures a delicious, humane and con­venient demise for all. We must ensure that no animal turns out dry or bland in any way, as anything else would be unjust. 
Right to a "Clean Shot" 

Regarding dignity, each animal should be taken out as efficiently and painlessly as possi­ble, preventing excessive complaining by PETA. 
Right lo Decorate 

Various woodland creatures hereby reserve 
the privilege of adorning my living room wall 
or sprawling out in front of the fireplace as a 
rug. 

These rights concern the "afterlife" of our 
friends in the wilderness, but several must be 
made to include the living: 

Right to Jump Through Hoops at Sea World 
Each sea-faring creature capable of such has the right to do so, along with swimming around in a large tank and splashing water on people for entertainment. 
Right to Entertain Me on Jay Leno and Wildlife Shows 
For animals in captivity, this includes any such act which actually makes the Tonight Show interesting, such as throwing waste at Jay Leno or running around in the .audience. 
Right lo SniffAirport Luggage 
For German Shepherds primarily, this pro­vides ample exercise while serving to fight the war on drugs. These fine animals also have the right to appear on "COPS" jumping over fences to apprehend violent criminals. Providing pets with exercise gives them a primitive concept of "self-actualization," allowing the higher place on the Maslow Hierarchy of Doggy Needs. 
Right to Test Cosmetics 

\'Vith their selfless generosity. these animals ensure that the makeup wearers of the world \Viii have safe. defect-free cosmetics. Additionally it allows Notre Dame women to complement their pea-coats with appropriate eye shadow. This is one of the more philan­thropic acts of animals. 
Right to Bite Owners Who Make 111em Wear Sweaters and Bandanas. 
Yes, some of these righli, actually benefit ani­
mals. I have great empathy for dogs who wear 
clothes of any kind, and support active resis­
tance to such annoying pampering. 
Understand that with rights come responsi­
bilities. There are things that animals should 
refrain from doing. especially the following: 
Starring in Disney Movies 

Okay, how many of you went to see "Air 
Bud?" I think I speak for the majority when I 
oppose all "Free Willy" movies. No self-respect­
ing animal would appear in such a role. 
Some of you may find these rights objection­
able, but they ensure that we respect the utility 
<lf animals along with dignity, and progress 
toward a more just world. 

The 1•ietl'S expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 



Ne,vs Scene 
Maggy Tinucci Mike Vanegas Matthew Smith Graphics Kate Steer 
Joe Mueller Sports Lab Tech Noah Amsteader Pete Richardson 

Viewpoint 
Colleen Gaughen 

Ih•· ( lh,aw,, ( lJSl'S 'i'>'l 2-4000) i, puhli,hd Monday ihrout:h Friday ex<cp! durtnt: <'X,llll and \'J(acinn i><'riod,. Tli<' Oh,crvcr i, a rncmhn of 1h~ A"o,i.11,·d l'r,·"· All rcprrn.lw.:rion ri~l11, arc rc,rn·cd. 
• • ................. 1 
• .J ._· -.... 






utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Students occupy president's office in _sweatshop protest 
ANN ARBOH, Mich. 
More than 25 university students occupied university president Lee Bollinger's oflice Wednesday morning and planned to remain there through the night to demand that administra­tors adopt a stronger set of labor standards in the collr.giate apparel industry. 
The student activists refused to COIF tinue talks with Bollinger and univer­sity general counsel Marvin Krislov after the administrators offered to meet with two of the group's leaders. 
The students who led the sit-in, all of whom are members of Students Organizing for Labor and Economic Equality (SOLE). said they want Bollinger and Krislov to meet with the entire group, which is camped out on the floor of the president's office. 
"We're done negotiating. We want action," junior Andy Cornell said. 
¦ UNIVERSITY Of MARYLAND 
Classmates act to ease Cuba's strife 
COLLEGE PARK, Md. 
When students from the "Nationalism, Socialism and Democracy"course at Maryland returned from Cuba over winter break, they did not simply put away their experi­ences in scrapbooks. Instead, students from the govern­ment and politics class, which spent two weeks in the communist nation. decided to act upon some of the prob­lems that plague Cuba.They created Focus on Cuba, a group through which they have planned relief efforts for Cuban citizens, as well as programs and debates to heighten student awareness of American-Cuban relations. Part of the group's purpose is to educate the campus com­munity on Cuban issues and lobby Congress for an ease on sanctions, according to group literature. Focus on Cuba's president, Juliana Menasce, a junior government and poli­tics major, said she and her 21 study abroad classmates were inspired to start the organization after their trip. 
¦ UNIVERSITY Of FLORIDA Freshman rescues police officer 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. 
Most college students spend spring break trying to avoid 
crossing paths with law enforcement officers. Fortunately 
for Gainesville Police Officer Howard Harran, freshman 
Arthur Bruggeman took a different approach. According 
to a police report, just before 10 p.m. on March 14, 
llarran was unexpectedly struck in the face by David 
Smith, Jr., of St. Augustine while questioning Smith in 
front of a tire store. Smith then wrestled Barran to the 
ground. Barran tried to call for backup on his radio and 
shouted for help. Bruggeman, 18, was leaving a friend's 
house when he noticed the police cruiser with its head­
lights on parked next to the tire store. "I slowed down 
when l saw the police car," he said. "Then when I saw the 
guy and the policeman rolling around on the ground, I 
slammed on the brakes and ran over. If they hadn't been 
in the glare of the headlights, I wouldn't have seen them." 
¦ SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather® fnrec:1s1 for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
H  L  
Friday  ~42 28  
Saturday  ~50 28  
Sunday  ~ "'''  41  38  
...  
Monday  ~36 22  
Tuesday  ~46 26  

~(/~1 ~~4~) rQ ·~ ~ ~ 
.,,,,.,, ,,. .. , ··.·.·· ··:•·-;: --­
Showers T-storms Rain Flumes Snow Ice Sunny Pr. Cloudy Cloudy v,a Associated Press GraphtcsNet 
" • ~· -'I ...... -............... -• " • .. • -­

Later in the evening, SOLE mem­bers said they attempted to meet with administrators, but had not heard back from the them. 
University spokesperson Joel Seguine said talks could begin as early as this morning. · 
The students "have definitely put on the pressure," Seguine said. 
SOLE and its affiliate organizations on campuses across the nation have said that current calls for tougher standards in the collegiate apparel industry are not strong enough. 
The Collegiate Licensing Company -the licensing agent that handles contracts bctw!rnn manufacturers and the university and 160 other colleges nationwide -has been facilitating talks with various schools to improve working conditions and unfair labor practices in the apparel industry. 
The univnrsity reported more than $5.7 million in revenue from the sale of licensed merchandise last year. the most of any school in the nation reporting similar information. 
"We will be here until our demands are met," SOLE member Peter Homer-Friedman told the participants of the sit-in yesterday. 
SOLE members said the university needs to commit to full public disclo-. sure of the location and ownership of factories and the living wage. Bollinger said. "it would be reckless for us to sign on to a ~'.oncepl that hasn't been tested." 
¦ COLORADO STATE LiNH/ERSITY Picketers unite to battle lumber giant . 
FORT COLLINS, Colo. 
"Go green!" was the battle cry of a handful of picketers from Colorado State University who gathered outside Home Depot Wednesday to protest the company's use of old-growth forest lumber. The Sierra Club group, in front of the home improvement storn on Ilarmony Hoad, was just one of many groups rallying across North America Wednesday to urge Home Depot to "stop selling old growth wood, and go green for St. Patrick's Day," accord­ing to a flyer distributed by the protesters. "Home Depot is a huge corporation with a lot of influence," CSU Sierra Club member Beth Moore said. "[Home Depot isl onn of the last companies to continue using old growth wood, and consumers need to know what is going on." The retailer allegedly sells products mad11 or spruce, fir and cedar from the Great Bear rain fornst of British Columbia and mahogany cut from the Amazon rain fornst. 
¦ UNIVERSITY OF M!CHlGAN 
Police criticize "Naked Mile" run 
ANN AHBOH, Mich. 
Th.e "Naked Mile." a yearly tradition in which hundreds of students celebrate the last day or classos by running nude through the streets of Ann Arbor, has in rncent y!mrs become a spectator sport, leaving many questioning the safety of the run. While the Naked Mile si.arted out small with only members of the university mrm's crew tmtm par­ticipating, Ann Arbor Polic<~ Department deputy chief Larry Jeruc said it attracted about 800 runnnrs and more than 10,000 spoctato.rs last year. Jerue said the thousands of spectators who comn from around the world and tak,, pictures and videos usually show up not only in newspa­pers and on television, but also on the Internet. "It does allow a very sendy eh~ment of society," hn said, and along with the "party atmosphf~rn" and alcohol consumption, "sexual deviates come just to rnach out and touch partici­pants as they run by," compromising safety. 
¦ NATIONAL \PJEATHER 

The AccuWeather" forecast for noon, Friday, March 19. 
40s 
40s 
.,,.....,.. 
© 1999 AccuWeather. Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 

High  low  Showers  Rain  T•storms  Flurries  Snow  Ice  Sunny  Pl. Cloudy  Cloudy  
Albany Atlanta Boston Buffalo Dallas  40 66 45 35 55  29 46 35 25 50  - Indianapolis Jacksonville Los Angeles M,am, New York . . . .. .  50 73 62 82 47  27 56 52 67 37  Phoenix 80 Pittsburgh 37 San Francisco 54 Seattle 59 Washington 50  52 25 50 42 38  


Friday, March 19, 1999 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


McCarthy: Finding peace is ultimate goal of living well 
By KYLE ANDREWS "We're not called on lo do big News Writer things; we're called on to do small things in a great way," McCarthy said. 
In order to accomplish peace, \Ve The question we should ask ourselves nePd a sPnsP or prayer, service and is how we can fulfill our commitments nxorcism to drive out (•vii and vio-bett•~r. and how better to serve the IPtH'.<!, said Colman McCarthy. a jour-peoph~ around us. nalist !'or the \Vashington Post and the A major cause of the problems in the rounder and dirnctor of' the Center for world today is the lack of peace and T,•aching l'eac1i in \Vashington, D.C., conflict resolution courses in the in a l!•cturl' Thursday night. Amerir.an educational system, espe­
" Peace is the cially in the early rnsult of lovn, and if formative years. lovn was easy, we'd These skills must all be good at it." 'WE'RE NOT CALLED ON TO be taught at an McCarthy said. DO BIG THINGS; WE'RE early age because 
"Tru<' prayer is that is when vio­
asking God what he CALLED ON TO DO SMALL THINGS lent people begin wants from us," said IN A GREAT WAY.' to become lost. l\tcCarthy. It is not The question asking God for asked of young favors. Our job is to CoutA/V A1<:C4RTIIY children should discover our girts )Ol/RN/ILIST not be what they and us<' tlw m . This w a 11 t to d o w h e 11 Pntails risks; but th(!Y grow up, but McCarthy said. "If' rather how they your lifo has no risk it is probably a want to serve society when they are dull life." ready. 
McCarthy praisNI the scrvic(\ \\'ork "You can make all As and go out and donP at Notre Dame and stressed the flunk life," McCarthy said on the dan­!'act that real learning comes from gers of Pducation. Many students, he PXpPricncP and not solely from book said, leave college "idea rich but expe­lt'arning. Servic1\ is about human rience poor." 
•~xchangc and making a difference in a At the r.ollege level, too much atten­person's life, not just collecting tion is given to grades and not enough sweaters for homclPss people in the to developing life experiences. People wintPr. are so concerned with themselves and 
"You will be radicalized when you getting ahead that they lose track of go among pPoplc in pain," McCarthy what they are called to do. said in rnfort>ncc to p<'rsonal service. "Don't ask questions," McCarthy 
"It tends to wake you up and shake said in reference to combating evil you up." and violence in society, but "question 
McCarthy said that wlwn former stu­the answers." \-Ve are to question abu­dents from his Georgetown Law class­sive power and take a stand, not coop­es return, the one experienr.1~ they eratr, in violence. always romernber is not the lectures Often this means going against our on law but when McCarthy took them culture, one that is so pernrnated with to prisons and homeless shelters. injustice. Thos1~ ,~xpcriences were tlrn otws that "The very same day we spend $700 stay(•d with his stud"nts through their million on the Pentagon war mar.hirn1, l!XJ)Pl'il'llCPS lawr in life. 40,000 people die from hunger and 
hunger related diseases," McCarthy said. 
He also pointed out that between the White House and the Capitol, there are eight homeless shelters. Something must be done to change the priorities of our nation. 
The United States is the only west­ern nation that still has the death pun-

ishment. Currently, the United States has more people on death row than any other year in U.S. history. The 
U.S. is also a major supplier of weapons around the world. 
McCarthy said that issues like these desperateiy need to be addressed in order for the state of our nation and the world to improve. 

Champion ---adidas ---JanSport,...., Gear for Sports ---MV J ackets/Sweatshirts/T-Shirts/Polos/Shorts 

Located In The Old Hammes Bookstore Building March 18th-20th Thursday/Friday 9am-6pm Saturday 9am -5pm 
• 


page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March 19, 1999 


Travel 
continued from page 1 
was further delayed. 
After arriving in Negril, the students' discovered that their luggage had been lost. It did not arrive until two days later. 
"I just bought a little outfit to wear, but I had to go barefoot for two days," said Mary Bozlee, Notre Dame senior. 
In an attempt to make it up to the students, Student Travel Services (STS) offered them vvristbands good for free drinks and other bonuses. The stu­dents, however, said they were not satisfied because bars and clubs where the bracelets were valid ran out of alcohol or were over-crowded. 
The group used Anthony Travel to book their trip through the STS. Anthony Travel has used STS for the past four years but has never had problems of this caliber. 
"Whenever you send that many kids on so many trips you can expect a few minor prob­lems, but nothing like this," said Kayleen Carr, an Anthony Travel consultant. 
Upon their return, some of the travelers immediately took action by going to representa­tives at Anthony Travel and writing up a list of grievances. 
STS is one of several tour operators that design packages aimed at students for the spring break travel season. It then becomes the job of the travel agency to book the trips. 
According to Anthony Travel's director of Business Services, Pat \-Valsh, this can be tricky. 
"We try and find packages that combine both quality and affordability. The very best 
Professor recieves 

social work honors 
By LAURA ROMPF 
News Writer 
The National Association of Social Workers has named Saint Mary's assistant profes~ sor and director of the social work program Frances Kominkiewicz Social Worker of the Year for region two of the Indiana chapter. 
"l feel blessed and honored to be in the same context as Gladys l'vtuhammad, who won tlH' Citizen of the Ye a r 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE PRESENTS SHAHEEN PRESIDENTIAL LECTURE 
Mary Catherine Bateson "The Meanings ofHome" 

+ 
Noted cultural anthropologist and linguist 

+ 
Best selling author of: 

• 
Peripheral Visions: Leaming Along the Wt-0· 

• 
Composing a life 

• 
With aDaughter's E.ve: AJle11Wir ofJfargaret Mead and Gregory Bateson 

• 
ThinkingAJDS 



+ 
('..onsidered one of the most important thinkers ofour time. 


Thursday, March 25, 1999 at 7:30 p.m. Carroll Auditorium 
Admission FREE For further information call 
219/284-4626 
Saint M:sCollege 
NOTRE DAME• INDIANA 
packages are simply not a pos­sibility for most students," she said. 
Walsh warns that there are many spring break scams out there, such as some of the incredibly low-cost packages offered on the Internet, making it a good idea to use a travel agency when making vacation arrangements. 
STS is not a division of Anthony Travel, but Anthony Travel is acting on behalf of the students to receive monetary compensation for the delays encountered on their trip. 
But STS is not legally required to offer the students compensation, according to Carr. 
"The Department of Transportation requires com­pensation for delays of 48 hours or more. Because the delays on this trip were less than that, technically STS does not have to do anything," Carr said. 
Walsh is not yet sure whether or not Anthony Travel will con­tinue to use STS packages next year. 
"Much of that decision depends on how adequately they compensate the students for their troubles this year," said Walsh. 
There were various reasons for the delay. 
WhP-n using charter compa­nies instead of major airlines, delays can be much more sig­nificant because many of the charter companies have only three to five planes, whereas major airlines have hundn1ds of planes. 
Whnn the number of avail­able planes is so limited, get­ting replacement planes in the event of mechanical difficulties is often a real problem. 
Also, due to the small num-
Award," said Kominkiewicz. "I know my colleagues have faith in me and I won't let them down." 
The National Association of Social Workers chose Kominkiewicz for her contri­butions to the profession of social work. 
The nominations were sent to the Indiana office where a final decision was made 
Kominkiewicz and Muhammed will bn honored at a dinner on March 23. 
ber of planes, when a delay occurs in one city it is going to afTect the travel plans of other passengers using the same charter. 
Students wore left at the air­port with many unanswered questions because the gate agents were not made aware of or were incapable of receiving word of delays elsewhere. 



May 8-16 
Free Room/Board $8/hour 
Room Contract Sign-ups: Thursday, March 18, 9 a.m.-5 p.m. and Saturday, March 20, noon -5 p.m. in the Dooley Room of LaFortune 
Last day to sign housing contract is April 3 

ND-Colorprint 
The OIT is pleased to announce a new networked, full-color printing and copying service located in 114 CCMB. 
ND-Colorprint offers: 
• 
full-color printing via the ND network 

• 
copying of full-color images 

• 
printing of Postscript and PDF files from disk (3.5" or Zip) 

• 
fast, low-cost service 

• 
24-hour turn-around for most jobs 

• 
variety of paper sizes/weights 



ND-Colorprint also offers optional: 
• 
center folding, stapling (side or center), and/or collating 

• 
printing on both sides (duplexing) 

• 
enlargement and reduction (25%-400%) 


Payment can be made through your ND departmental account or by cash or check. Unfortunately, at this time we are unable to charge this service to student accounts. 
-¦¦
For pricing and more information about ND-Colorprtnt, visit our Web 
.¦ 
site at http://www.nd.edu/-ndoit/printers/colorxe.html 
.¦ 
Both Walsh and Carr urge students who were dissatisfied with their packages and tour operators to write letters to these companies. 
Questions about steps to take in order to receive compensa­tion for problems encountered as a of the package can be directed to Anthony Travel rep­resentatives. 
Recycle The Observer 

Friday, March 19, I 999 
¦ ,JH;t1 n NEv,1\ Bmrr~: 
Chinese police arrest donkey soup poisoners 
BEIJING 
Polin• havP arn•stPd livP p(!oph~ accused of putting arid in a popular restaurant's spncial­ity -donkPy meat soup -and poisoning 148 p<•oplP in cPntral China, statn media reporh!d Thursday. Customers of the Tang Palace Donk1•y !\·1Pat Soup Bcstaurant began stream­ing to local hospitals in tlrn city of Luoyang on March 8, vomiting and complaining of numb­ll('SS in tlw limbs, tlw WorkPrs' Daily nmvspa­pPr suid. An inv(~stigation found that a rival donkny nwat soup restaurateur conspired with a workPr lirPd from the Tang Palace and hin'd 1)('opi<' to pour nitric arid into the soup, tlw rwwspapPr said. The newspaper did not idnntify those arrnstPd and said police were still snarching f'or another p(~rson. 
Legislators investigate sale of orphan's organs 
CAIRO, Egypt 
Egyptian prosecutors optmed an investiga­tion Thursday into allngations that an orphanage sold th<~ organs of some of its chil­dn•n to hospitals that cater to wealthy Gulf Arabs, resulting in a number of' deaths. The allegations were made earlier this week by 10 Parliament members, who demanded that tlw stat<~ launch a probe. The legislators charg<'d that 25 children had died within a throe-month period last year in an orphan­age in Shebin cl-Korn, a town in the province of Menoufiya. 30 miles north of Cairo. Mohammed Abdel-Aal, who formerly ran The Association for Handicapped Children orphanage, told Egyptian reporters Thursday that the allegations WPrc untrue. No charges haV<' b11cn flied against Abdel-Aal, and prose­cutors in Mcnouliya declined comment. "We have no knowledge about tho charges and haV<' no 1)videncc." Bahiga Ilamam, the new director of ttw orphanage, told Associated Prnss Tdr-vision News. 
Museum asks for permission to display carcass 
WASIIINGTON 
The Smithsonian Institution was happy to arcPpt $20 million f'rom former NFL team owrwr Kn111wth Behring and would like to takn a morn controv1ffsial gift from him as wnll -tlw r<'mains of one of the world's most nndangnrPd animals. Smithsonian sci­Pntists hav1\ askPd for a waiver to the EndangPred Species Act to import th<~ car­cass of a bighorn sheep that Behring shot on a 1997 big ganrn hunting trip in the for­nrnr Soviet Union. The nation's premier public museum complex is thus doing a favor for its leading donor by lending his trophy hunting tlrn legitimacy of scientific research. tlw Humane Society of the United States chargnd Thursday. · 
1;t i,id&UUI·¦ 
Dow 
AMEX: 
714.86
]ONES 
-0.97 Nasdaq:
9997.62 

2462.94 +33.99 
NYSE: 
617.61 +6.96 S&P 500: 1316.55 

Composite
+18.73 
Volume: 118.21 752, I 00,000 
VOLUME LEADERS 
rn~1n:::.i Ilrt,11! ~ij1 Cll6?:iiiE I iiAll::i l!BIC!i 
DEi.i ( 0\ll'L'HR :S:fT\\'OJU,: -\,\llC F(;(;i IF.,\ll,CO\t 1,,. \f('I WPRl.llCO\t i:>.C  llHI. ,f.T•\u;t.rs WC(l)',,1  • ()t,1175 -!!.1!750 +4.'"425 •.l,3125  •l.oO -21.51\ +29. !II +"t-.24  42.25 .12,25 21.KK 9.1.75  
\11CRU,oH, PRI' I\. !'fl.< ORI' ( l~ \( I I. ( \ JUI' llI\:,.( I' II \IN \11 Ill  \tSrf1:--:n· nRU .\\ff\,f  +5.J 1.~0 + 1 .J l(Xl +0,0275 +!1.b250  +.1.111 +lJ)l} •Z.11> +1.'.'d  172.H !~I.Kl 2<>.69 -12.IMl  
\( ~l\.l t t,.l}<,P , \tt,11,(  ';)\!\ t\l{;J  -0.Sb(Ml +4.4,150  ~.?...!~• +Ci,_ {8  24.4-1 18-1.Ml  

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
¦ GERMANY 

ASSOCIATED PHESS 
BEHUN 
No one is more revered in German literature than Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, so it was with some surprise that a leading German newspaper broke the news Thursday that the national hero had been secretly exhumed some 30 years ago. 
The macabre revelation -pub­lished on the front page of the conser­vative Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung -came as Germany prepares to ,;ele­brate the 250th anniversary of Goethe's birth later this year, on Aug. 28. 
The Thuringia state culture minis­ter, Gcrd Schuchardt, demanded an investigation into the report, while the foundation that oversees the Goethe 
archives, where the newspaper found the files detailing the exhumation, went into damage control. 
"It was agreed to handle this situa­tion very discreetly. And it wasn't to hide it, or to keep it quiet, rather for reasons of piety," said Jucrgen Seifert, the head of the Weimar Classics Foundation. 
Seifert confirmed that scientists in the former East Germany removed Goethe's remains from his Weimar tomb in 1970, but he denied it was done surreptitiously. 
The purpose, he said, was to pre­serve the remains for posterity. 
By then, some 140 years after his death, the remains were too fragile to consider mummification. The scien­tists instead opted to preserve the skeleton. 
The remaining tissue was cremated, the skeleton cleaned, enclosed in foam and returned to the tomb, the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung reported. 
At the time of the exhumation, the scientists discovered they were not the first to have opened the tomb since Goethe's burial in 1832. One of the tomb's interior seals had been opened, and the lead lining had been cut, leading them to speculate that the tomb had been tampered with at the end of World ·war II. 
Seifert, for one, reserved judgment on the scientists. 
"Th(~ only people qualified to judge this would be a body of scientists at home in this field. All the others would be frivolous, reckless or biased," he said. 
¦ IRELAND 
Bishop calls for calm after murder 
AssOCIATED PRESS  Her kiJling was followed  and Labor Party.  and residents of a Catholic  
by the fatal shooting  "If this is a response to  housing development  
LURGAN  \Vednesday of a paramili­ the murder of Rosemary  replaced their Irish tricolors  
The bishop presiding over  tary group member in  Nelson, it is certainly not  with ragged black flags.  
a funeral for an assassinat­ Belfast, apparently ordered  what Rosemary would have  A pro-British terrorist  
ed Catholic lawyer appealed  by fellow Protestants. A vio­ wanted," Rodgers said.  group called the Red Hand  
for calm Thursday, saying  lent Protestant-Catholic  Nelson had represented  Defenders has claimed  
revenge would only serve  clash later that night in  Catholic residents in their  ·responsibility for killing  
those determined to destroy  Portadown, near Lurgan,  fight to block Protestant  Nelson in an apparent bid  
the hopes of the vast major­ spilled over into gasoline  marchers from parading  to wreck the peace process.  
ity for peace.  bomb attacks on police,  down the thoroughfare in  But many Catholics have  
Bishop Francis Gel'ard  who responded with plastic  the largely Catholic neigh­ accused the Royal Ulster  
Brooks said retaliation also  bullets.  borhood.  Constabulary. Northern  
would be disrespectful to  Hours after the funeral  In Lurgan, Nelson's hus•  Ireland's predominantly  
the memory of Rosemary  Thursday, a bus and sever­ band, Paul, and three chil­ Protestant police force, of  
Nelson. 40, a human rights  al cars were hijacked and  dren -Christopher, 13,  colluding in the lawyer's  
lawyer "who strove by polit­ burned on the Garvaghy  Gavin, 11. and Sarah, 8 - death.  
ical and legal mt~ans to  Road, touching off more  had walked hand-in•hand  Nelson had rt~presented a  
right a grievance."  rioting between hundreds  behind her coffin to the  number of Irish Republican  
Thousands of mourners  of Protestants and  great Victorian church.  Army suspects, and had  
packed SL Peter's Church in  Catholics.  passing the bouquets that  complained of threats and  
Lurgan, 30 miles southwest  Masked Catholics threw  now mark the spot where  harassment from RUC offi­ 
of Belfast, to honor Nelson.  gasoline bombs and stones  her wrecked car came to  cers.  
who died Monday when a  at police and tried to burn  rest.  Police chief Sir Ronnie  
bomb planted in her silver  down the Protestant Orange  Sarah's classmates at the  Flanagan has called in an  
BM\.V exploded just yards  Hall. drawing condemna­ nearby Tannaghrnore  English police official to  
from her home. An out~  tion from Brid Rodgers. a  School solemnly lined the  supervise the murder inves­ 
lawed Protestant group  lawmaker in the moderato  narrow, winding road in  tigation and asked tlrn FRI  
claimed responsibility.  Catholic Social Democratic  their green school uniforms.  for help as ,veil.  


page 6 Friday, March 19, 1999
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
NATO 
continued from page I 
attempt to gain strategic posi­
tioning. They claim that the 
United States and some \-Vestern 
European nations sought the 
membership the former commu­
nist nations in order to further 
possible military positioning in 
the future. 
Jubulis disagrees with this 
claim. 
"The process of expansion was 
driven more bv the Eastern 
European natio11s knocking on 
the door rather than NATO 
pushing forward," he said. 
NATO \<Vas relur,tant to expand 
until the U.S. stepped forward 
and supported it. 
"The new memb£ffS will mostly 
support the U.S. position in 
NATO ber,ause thev credit the 
U.S. with getting them in. They have also stated that they will support the interests of other nations that aspire to NATO membership, such as the Baltic states," said Jubulis. 
The former Soviet Baltic states of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania are eager to join NATO and Russia's attempts to block the Baltics membership only increases their desire to join. 
"They view Russia's attempt to block expansion as an infringe­ment on their sovereignty." said Jubulis. 
If the Baltic nations join NATO, problems ,viii arise because the Russian territory of Kaliningrad \Viii be separated from the rest of Hussia by the new NATO nations. 
"Russia said they will not accept former Soviet states join­ing NATO but Russian officials also previously said the same thing about any former Eastern 


How to order delivery using your 
FLEX POIN1"S! 
Me.w4.. 
\\11\1)f O'I f!.4 "tl\,c'<. c.,us\' 'P\2.2.a 
1. Call 1-6902 between 6 pm and 1 am 
2. Give us your order 
($5.00 minimum] 
3. We will \Yf[EW(~rl your g,... h. FLEX account 
..._L2.....a' ~ e.; ~... ~ -. ,t.C CJ\)
,._.YI~ -a
' i-'C,, -~ 

~ ~" 4.WHEN DELIVERED, show us your ID and sign the voucher 
Bloc country," said Jubulis. 
While Russia tries to maintain 
some influence over its former 
Iron Curtain allies, the new 
NATO nations are moving fur­
ther away from their former 
communist ties. 
"The [new NATOJ nations are . celebrating this as an important date in their history: it is a tangi­ble sign that they've returned to the West and a confirmation of their successful transition to democracy," said Jubulis. 
"Perhaps, the greatest advan­tage for the new NATO members is psychological. Now they feel firmly rooted in the \Vest," he continued. "It is also a recogni­tion of their stability, which should lead to more foreign investments." 
"Once you open up markets, you give people a vested interest in [democracy]," said govern­ment department chair .James 
McAdams. 
The NATO expansion is also 
benefiting relations between 
prospective NATO nations and 
the new members. 
"The prospect of NATO mem­bership has already improved relations between countries sur,h as Hungary and Romania," said .Jubulis. "By including Hungary, NATO is now in a better position to deal "vith problems in the volatile Balkan area." 
The end of the Cold War and the inclusion of former Eastern Bloc nations have changed NATO's role significantly. 
"NATO has had two roles tra­dition ally, a defensive and an offensive. The defensive role was to prevent Soviet expansion and the offensive role was to spread democratic values," said McAdams. "While thfl defensive function will remain the other function must involve convinc­ing Russian doubters." 
Tomassito•s· 
March 2l 1999 7:00 


r------------, 
1 Two orders Mozzerella Bread Sticks 1 
I fl+ (Cou!~ R~red) -I 
1 
Use your Flex Points : 1 for Delivery 6 pm -1 am 
1 
~ (I Tomassito•s (I 
1
X Call The Huddle at 1-6902 I 
coupon expires 4/19/99 _ .J
L ­
~~-.99 2-Lite;-C-;;-kePr~uci" --~ 
with any Large 14" Pizza I I .'tff (Coupon Required) • =tflie I : Use your Flex Points · 1 
for Delivery 6 pm -1 am 
1
: 41 Tomassito•s 41 
1 
I Call The Huddle at 1-6902 I L ----~"s>i~11~ ----J 


Friday, March 19, 1999 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Schneider: Teens lack direction needed to succeed 
By ERIN COSTANTINI 
News \X1rirer 
Although America's adoles­cents are more motivated than ever, they lack direction, said Barbara Schneider, professor of' sociology at the ·Univfffsity of Chicago, in a lecture Thursday afternoon 
In 1988, Schneider began studying adolescents and the transitions they make in a lon­gitudinal study between their eighth and 10th grade years. The eighth graders had "sky­rocketing ambitions," demon­strating a major societal change for all students to aim for coIJcge and graduate school educations, she said. 
By the time they reached 10th grade, the students' high aspirations had not changed, as tlrny all sought earners as profossionals and the goals WP,n' consistently high among both sexes and across all races. 
The ()ducational and earner ambitions of today's adoles­cents are unprecf~dented, according to Schneider. While in I 9 5 5 on I y :~ 0 perc e n t of high school seniors predicted tlrny would graduate with a college degree, the number A student is said to have amount of education they need soared to a high of 70 percent aligned ambitions if the for a specific job. in 1992. amount of education he or she Sixteen percent of students 
Economist Kevin Murphy of craves matches the education­underestimate the amount of the University of Chicago al criteria of the career he or education required, demon­coined the phrase "college she desires. Schneider discov­strated by someone who premium," meaning that if one ered that 43.7 percent of stu-desires a career as a doctor, possesses a yet only 
strives for a
high school 
degree, he 
high school 
or she is 
degree. 
looking at 
Schneider
Today's Teens
the future 
explained. 

welfare pop­ulation. 
In today's competitive society, one must earn an advanced degree to reach the level of sub­s is ten c e, Schneider continued. 
She said the ed uca­tion al and career goals of today's teens are compared to each other to determine whether their ambitions have direction. 
Summer '99 Program Offerings 
• Earth Systems Field School • Session I 
The complex, interdependent and dynamic nature of the Earth system is revealed most clearly by spending time in the field. Students earn 6 Columbia credits as they conduct mini-projects at field sites in the Grand Canyon, Petrified Forest and Santa Catalina Mountains. 
This 6-week course begins June 7 and ends on July 16, 1999. 
• Earth Systems Field School • Session II 
Students of this program receive an intensive introduction to the physical, chemical, biological and social issues involved in operating ecosystems inside Biosphere 2. Day field trips are planned throughout southern Arizona. This 4-week course begins July 26 and ends on Aug. 20, 1999. 
• New! Biodiversity 
Students will examine the unprecedented loss of global biodiversity occurring today. Instruction includes classroom lectures, readings from the origi­nal literature, lab and computer exercises, field exercises and field trips. Field sites include the Sea of Cortez, Sonoran Desert, Catalina and Santa Rita Mountains, and Pinacates Biosphere Reserve. 
This 5-week course begins June 7 and ends on July 9, 1999. 
For more information and application materials contact us at: 
Office of Student Admissions Biosphere 2 Center • PO Box 689 • Oracle, AZ 85623 (800) 992-4603 • admissions@bio2.edu 
Two impor­tant factors 
determining alignment and direction are high school counselors· guidance and parental sup­port. 
Schneider also found that all high schools differ in guidance techniques, as some coun-The Observer/Joe Mueller Se Io r S fa VO r advancement to two-year dents have aligned ambitions, community colleges, while oth­where 40.1 percent lack direc­ers push their students to tion by overestimating the apply to all the top four-year 
Lack Direction 
schools, even when their chances of acceptance are low. 
Guidance from high school counselors is critical because students are encouraged to coordinate individual interests and statistics with criteria from specific colleges, accord­ing to Schneider. 
When guidance counselors push their students to apply to the top schools, problems occur when the students do not get accepted. This is harm­ful because the school is then placing the blame on the child. 
Schneider discovered adoles­cents who receive strong parental support are more likely to have aligned ambi­tions. [n another study, she found that it is easy for stu­dents to agree that they will always feel loved, but what they crave most is guidance and direction from their par­ents. 
In today's society where most children have two work­ing parents. there is an unusu­ally large amount of time spent alone. 
In a typical adolescent's day, 20 percent of his of her time is spent alone. This makes it easy for a child to be bored or depressed or to get into trou­ble; only the most gifted of these students learn how to spend this alone time wisely, said Schneider. 
Another major factor con­tributing to the teenagers lack of direction is that more young people are going to community colleges expecting to go on to receive a bachelor's degree. Most of these students do not make the step to transfer to four-year institutions and they are left without job opportuni­ties. 
Schneider believes these youngsters cannot be sent to two-year colleges unless they are aware that it will essen­tially be harder and take longer to attain their bache­lor's degree. She argues that they need more guidance in choosing courses and explor­ing career options. The trans­fer to four-year schools must 
be  made  easier  and  more  
fluid.  
Schneider's  book,  "The  

Ambitious Generation," is aimed at the students them­selves. It depicts the life of young people today, the r.hal­lenges they face and the world that lies ahead. 
Professor Schneider earned her Ph.D. at Northwestern University, and is currently senior social sdentist at the National Opinion Research Center. She is also the co­director of the National Council on Education Standards and Testing, and is considered a leading researcher and professor in her field. 
Write for News. 
Call 
1-5323. 
page 8 The Observer • NEWS Friday, March 1 9, 1999 
the atmosphere makes faculty freedom when professors are partners of gay and lesbian good start. A dedicated faculty members nervous. afraid to speak out." faculty health benefits and line in Gay and Lesbian
Inclusion 
"There is a real feeling of Bederman agreed that Notre other spousal benefits. Notre Studies, to be administered by 
fear," she said. "This feeling Dame's official attitude on Dame won't even promise not the Gender Studies Program
continued from page 1 
exists not only among gay and sexual orientation has given to fire gay and lesbian faculty would be another good start," nity. It states that harassment lesbian professors, but also the University a negative rep­or staff if they come out -let she said. of any kind is not tolerated," among untenured heterosexu­utation in academia. alone doing anything material Overall, Bederman feels that said counselor to the president al professors who are afraid to "Notre Dame's attitude is to make them feel welcome," until the University provides 
and director of campus min­speak publicly on this issue." drastically different from most she said. an open atmosphere for pro­istry Father Richard Warner, In a previous interview with of the universities I know "I joined the ND faculty the fessors and students to be who an advocate of the document. The Observer, associate pro­about," she said. "The trend at same year a former faculty they are, the problem of "A lot of work went into the fessor of Spanish Carlos Jerez­other top schools ·is to wel­member in theology [Bill attaining and retaining top Spirit of Inclusion, and the Farran expressed similar sen­come gay and lesbian faculty Storey] was declared persona professors will continue. work was to make all students timents. and staff explicitly. not to offer non grata by the University. It "It's not just homosexual feel welcome at Notre Dame." "People stay in the closet them an inclusion that has was not a welcoming environ­professors who are denied an 
Associate professor of histo­because of the environment spirit but no actual concrete ment," said Jerez-Farran. ''I open atmosphere -all of us, ry Gail Bederman feels differ­that people are afraid of being meaning." think this University does not of all sexualities, are denied ently. known for who they are," said Bederman secs the omission know, or rather. does not an open atmosphere," she 
"The Spirit of Inclusion is Jerez-Farran in a previous of sexual orientation in the want to know how to deal with said. "Because gay and les­not adequate because there interview. "That is very perva­non-discrimination clause as a the issue of homosexuality." bian professors can't openly still is no feeling of equality on sive on this campus." major deterrent in recruiting Bederman suggested poten­say who they are -because this campus," she said. Bederman believes these gay and lesbian professors. tial changes that would help to they have to hide -free 
Bederman said that not only feelings damage the academic "Top schools like the remedy the situation. speech for everybody is is equality lacking, but that mission of the University University of Chicago and "Health bencfi ts for the denied. This is deadly for aca­because "it damages academic Stanford University offer the partnexd staff would be a demic inquiry." 
¦ EGYPT 
Leaders reject Iraq's demands 
Associated Press airstrikes or name the 
United States and Britain. 
CAIRO The lukewarm statement 
Arab foreign ministers on is a second rebuff to Iraq. In Thursday again turned down a January meeting, the Arab Iraq's demands to condemn League also failed to con­U.S.-British airstrikes on the demn the airstrikes. It did, country, declaring instead however. pledge to work for that it should comply fully the lifting of U.N. trade sanc­with U.N. resolutions. tions imposed after Iraq's 
In a joint statement issued 1990 invasion of Kuwait. at the end of their two-day The emirate was liberated meeting, the ministers only by a U.S.-led multinational demanded "a halt to any force in the 1991 Persian action against Iraq outside Gulf War. Since mid­the mandate of the related December, U.S. and British [U.N.] Security Council reso­warplanes have bombarded lutions." Iraqi sites regularly to pun­
The statement did not ish what the allies say are 
THE NORTHERN INDIANA REGIONAL SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING 

FAIR 

THANKS 
THE FACULTY MEMBERS AND STUDENTS WHO HAVE VOLUNTEERED TO BE JUDGES, 
AND REMINDS THEM 
TO BE AT STEPAN CENTER THIS SATURDAY MARCH 20 AT 8:45 AM. AND RECEIVE THEIR JUDGING ASSIGNMENTS 

refer directly to the Iraqi violations. l!:========================================:::U 
Attention Notre Dame Students The Admissions Office is looking for enthusiastic volunteers to help welcome potential members of the next Freshman Class to Notre Dame. By the end of the month, we will have mailed decision letters to thousands of students who applied to Notre Dame. Hundreds of those admitted will want to visit the University, meet students, spend a night in a dorm, attend classes, and in general, get a sense of the Notre Dame community. We initially approached our Hospitality Program members to volunteer to host. Since we can never be certain what the demand for overnight visits will be, we are extending this invitation to any enthusiastic Notre Dame student. We will offer accommodations on all of the fol­lowing nights. If you can host a student, please consider volunteering. Wednesday, April 7 Sunday, April 18 Thursday, April 8 Monday, April 19 Friday, April 9 Tuesday, April 20 Saturday, April 10 Wednesday, April 21 Sunday, April 11 Thursday, April 22 Monday, April 12 Friday, April 23 Tuesday, April 13 Saturday, April 24 -Wednesday, April 14 Sunday, April 25 Thursday, April 15 Monday, April 26 Friday, April 16 Tuesday, April 27 Saturday, April 17 Wednesday, April 28 To respond, simply complete the bottom portion of this ad, check the day{s) that you would be available to host, clip this section from the paper and mail it to Mary Anne McAloon at 332 Howard. If you prefer, you may reply by e-mail at mcaloon.1@nd.edu. Please respond by March 31. If you have question or concerns, please call Mary Anne at 4-2518. On behalf of the newest members of Notre Dame, we thank you very much for your enthusiasm and generosity. NAME: HOME STATE: CAMPUS ADDRESS: MAJOR: CAMPUS PHONE: E-MAIL ADDRESS:  


Friday, March 19, 1999 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 
''WHAT IS THIS 

THING, ANYWAY?'' 
flr-~t TiMe-~e-r-! Yov don't have-to c.-oMe-for-the-whole-thi~ Join v~ for-all or­l---ike, nothi~ ~ov've-e-ve-r-,. ~xpe-r-ie-nUd No Pr-e--r-e-&~tYi No 0rr-e-ate-r-Thi~ 
JoiV\ v~ fov d da~ of 
.~:::;:,/:'<:';i<n . < . ;~~; . 

:~,:>:i:}/·:i:~\~f::;:N;.{.::::::···=:,. -a:-•·"'·,-,,-:;;:-.. :·:(' 
·::..}?)\t;{i.i<:~:_·\.:'.i;.~_:1.:.ii.\.?f~ ~t{:\; ;_:: :.,:·: .. -_::, }/S:i-·,:.._ ·; ·,: .-:tJ? 
. . .· .. \')t:.:~::'.::/ 
····••····· ·••····••··{ .•.•••,•• ;;';:;:.:11:~1~~;i:i:1:c:z iM2•...·•••·.·•..·•···•.•··•·•····· . ··.··•· :,:.,••···· ..·.·.. 
It's Finally Here! TOmtJrrOW!, 
South Dining Hall • t0:30.,am -5:30pm It's like a retreat, youth ralty, and1 mµ~Jcsfest all in one day! 
Recharge yo111;~fai.\D~lifffit8~7~~:~iDi11'iJ9 Break! 
.·,:·::J:r-:•:'}:C:/:J{ .... .. ~~:i:-;;:~I}J!}t.ft;:I}~r-J::::c;·_·-·;· . .. ..:iif:fil/:Hi-/j)\/i?~t~·i··-:.-:: .::::\;/:::--•:-...:...·....· _. _.. , ., .•.,. 
·{.;.•:•••·;';,;i:tf/;•.-;!.{.·.:::.•:.::__::..:·.·~.-}.:.. •• · • :.·• ·~:·· . Mt• .· . , .. ·.. ? · 
.. . ··.•· c;J;;, ;)]Pf'1~:1ii1:if;i1;ir1I;:puwi, 
. . . 
S. u E I ·t R . +".yJ.. rs >{®fsli•.·:.•:·.·•·· .;;:;il111i·'tc;;,i1;;>
1gn p ar y o eserve ,our. J,!..~ .> 
Email: ND.ministry.1@nd~edu orCall: 631-3250 (Pre-registration is not required,. but encouraged!) 

Friday, March 19, 1999
The Observer • NEWS 
U.S. must pay debt to retain vote Senate's new defense 
Associated Press state from the Nixon, Ford, -and for the first time in four Carter, Reagan, Bush and years, the United Nations is bor­
bill receives criticism 
UNITED NATIONS Clinton administrations on rowing less from a separate 
The United States must pay Thursday expressed concern in peacekeeping fund to cover 
Associated Press new assessment of the threat
the United Nations at least $250 a letter to Congress that the operating costs. 
of attack from countries such
million by the end of December United States "is squandering it'i But at the end of February. 
MOSCO\V as Iran, Iraq and North Korea.
to avoid losing its vote in the moral authority" by failing to member states still owed the Hussia and China on In Beijing, Chinese ForeignGeneral Assembly, a senior U.N. pay what it owes. United Nations over $2.9 billion Thursday criticized the Ministry spokesman Sun Yuxi
official said Thursday. "It's simply unacceptable that forcurrent and past assess­
l 
Senate's approval of a U.S. said the measure is counter­
"At least -underline it," said the richest nation on Earth is ments. 
anti-missile defense system, productive for arms control
Joseph Connor, the world body's also the biggest debtor to the By far the largest debtor, the saying the move would threat­and disarmament and willundersecretary-general for United Nations," said the letter, United States owes $1.69 billion, 
en the globe's strategic bal­"have an impact on global
management. which is also running as an nearly 60 percent of the total. 
ance. strategic balance."
Connor said that nearly $1. 7 advertisement in several news­The U.S. debt includes $620 The bill overwhelmingly China fears the system could 
I 
billion owed by Washington has papers. million for the regular budget 
approved by the Senate on spark a costly arms race,
left the world body without capi­The letter came as the Clinton and slightly more than $1 billion Wednesday commits the would strengthen U.S. military
tal -and a perennial borrower. administration launched its for peacekeeping and tribunals. 
Pentagon to building a nation­alliances with Japan and"The level of unpaid assess­annual effort to get Congress to Congress -which had condi­al defense against limited bal­South Korea and may be used
ments has become intractable," pay overdue bills to the United tioned payments on financial listic missile attack "as soon to protect Taiwan, therebyConnor said. "Unstable condi­Nations. and other reforms at the United as technologically possible." obstructing reunification.
tions hold hostage the financial "It's undermined our leverage Nations -authorized legislation "That poses a serious threat Russian officials have long
future of the United Nations." in the U.N. on a broad range of last year that would have paid 
to the whole process of expressed concern over the
The loss of a vote in the political and management off a chunk of the arrears. 
nuclear arms control, as well U.S. plan to develop anti-mis­
General Assembly would be an issues," the deputy U.S. ambas­But President Clinton vetoed as strategic stability, for which sile defenses that would vio­embarrassment, but it would not sador Peter Burleigh told a the bill because it contained 
major international agree­late the 1972 Anti-Ballistic
affect Washington's veto power House panel in Washington. unrelated abortion restrictions. 
ments have been worked out Missile treaty between the
in the Security Council, the most Connor said more of the U.N.'s Based on a formula used to 
for decades," the Russian United States and the Soviet
powerful decision-making body 185 member nations are paying calculate what nations owe, Foreign Ministry said in a Union. They have resisted U.S.
at the United Nations. their dues on time -117 in Connor said Washington must statement. proposals about possiblySeven former secretaries of 1998 compared with 75 in 1994 pay $250 million this year. 
The U.S. bill was based on a amending the treaty. 
Safety board interviews accident witness 
Associated Press Amtrak's chairman. ·Wisconsin Gov. community 50 miles south of Chicago. separate safety classes last year to keep Tommy Thompson. had said the train's Thirty of the agency's investigators· have his driving prh:ileges, according to BOURBONNAIS, UL engineer claimed the truck.driver tried been looking forthe cause ofthe wreck. records in Indiana and Illinois. 
A motorist who claims.to have been to zigzag his tractor-trailer.through the With its whistle blowing and.Jts engi-A company that has had him under directly behind the truck involved in tll~ crossing gates• after···theyhad come ·• neer trying toS(9PrAmtrak's.Cityt)fNew hire, Meleo Transfer Inc., declined com­deadly Amtrak collision said the driver down. · · · Orleans slammed into the truck loaded ment. tried to snake through lowered crossing John Goglia of the NTSB said with steel rod$ at 79 mph. It was the Stokes' phone number is not listed, gates and beat the train, a high-level· Thursday there is still no indication the nation's deadliest train accident in three and NTSB officials would not disclose federal source said Thursday. crossing signal malfunctioned'. And in a years. the name of his attorney. 
The National Transportation Safety re-enactment of the crash using a truck Goglia said the witness is a motorist About 100 people. including at least Board source, who spoke on the condiw and locomotive, the truck was able to who called Amtrak on Wednesday night one family who lost a relative in the tion of anonymity, said investigators zigzag around the downed crossing and claims to have been directly behind crash, attended a memorial service believe the motorist is credible and had gates without hitting them. the truck in the crossing. The motorist Thursday night in Bourbonnais. People 
a clear view of the accident, which killed The trucker, 58-year-old John Stokes, -whom Goglia would not identify -wept and hugged during the nearly 11 people and injured more than 100 told investigators the gates came down said in an initial interview that other hour-long service as 11 white votive Monday night. after he started across the tracks. Since cars were nearby. candles were lit and 11 chimes played. 
"\Ve are continuing to interview him, then. he has hired a lawyer, and the Stokes was driving on a probationary "This evening we arc together. This but his statements are not inconsistent attorney has barred authorities from license after receiving three Indiana evening we are one. \Ve are one in grief, with what the engineer originally said," questioning his client any further. spoeding tickets in a year. In total, ho for who has not been touched by this the source told The Associated Press in The developments came as the NTSB had been ticketed for speeding seven tragedy'!" said Father Stan I Iaxton said Washington. prepared to wrap up its work in this times since 1993 and had to take two during his homily. 


Cinema at the Snite 
Fri. & Sat. 7:30 p.m. and 9:45 p.m. Presented by ND Film, Television. and Theatre www.nd.edu/~cothweb 
_______.............ll!!"'~--------------------..----------~-.---...=---111111'!....!lla...._.-__________ 
~----------.. 
Friday, March 19, I999 
The Observer • NEWS page 11 
¦ VENEZUELA
Gambling research 
Court blocks new constitution
encourages debate 
Associated Press which he said was needed to by using the military to help 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 
\1 ore than f'i V<i mi II ion AmPric:ans arc pathological or problem gamblers, and another 15 million arc at risk of becom­ing just like them, concludes a study likely lo further inflame the debate over legalized wagnring. 
Tlw study conducted for the National Gambling Impact Study Commission found that 20 million Americans havn or could d<'vclop gambling prob­lems but said the economic impact of that is "relatively small." 
A second report, also released Thursday as the commission began two days of meetings in \\lashington, estimated that 1.8 million American adults as well as up to 1.1 million American adolnsccnts age 12 through 17 cngagP in s1wcr1• "pathological" gambling each year. 
Thn commission has thrnn months to finish a wido-ranging report on gambling for Congress, and the extent of compulsive gambling in the country is just orw or scvnral open issues. Yet gambling addiction is tlw most con­lPntious topic, and the report on the SllrVI\V conduct11d l'or thn commission· only widerwd tlw chasm bPtwccn tlw two sides. 
Frank Fahr<•nkopf. Jr., prnsi­d<!nt of th<\ Anrnrican Gaming Assoriation. alleged that an Parlier draft of the report was n\toolcd to cxaggcratn the dan­gPrs or gambling through sen­sational language and changes in conclusions. 
Still, he noted that the report "confirms that the economic and social benr.fits of gaming far outweigh the costs to society of pathological and problem gambling." 
The report's classification of 15 million Americans as "at risk" for developing a gambling problem was criticized by Fahrenkopf' and some commis­sion members. 
Survey participants who said tlrny gambled just once to relieve uncomfortable feelings were put in the "at risk" group, said commission member John Wilhelm, general president of the Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees International Union. 
Other members were trou­bled by the report's finding that the economic cost of problem gambling is "relatively small" ­about $5 billion a year in legal fC!is for divorce, court and jail costs for arrests, lost wages and bankruptcy. That compares with $72 billion for smoking, $166 billion for alcohol abuse and $71 billion for motor vehi­cle crashes, the report said. 
James Dobson, president of Focus on the Family and the panel's most outspoken oppo­nent of gambling, said the $5 billion estimate of gambling's cost is far too low. Ile wondered how to calculate the costs of child abuse or spousal abuse committed by a gambling addict. 
"Everybody on the commis­sion has really struggled with this: How do you estimate the social cost?" said commission chairwoman Kay James. 
root out corruption. build public works and by CARACAS But the Supreme Court ruled appointing follow coup partici­Venezuela's highest court that the decree was invalid pants to senior government 
blocked President Hugo because the president didn't posts. Chavez's plans for a new con­have the right to decide how The opposition has strongly stitution Thursday night, ruling the members of the assembly criticized his efforts to rewrite that his decree on the issue would be chosen. the constitution, charging it was unconstitutional. It wasn't immediately clear shows a tendency for authori­
Chavez, a former coup leader late Thursday what action the tarian control. who took office 45 days ago, government would take. I n an e ffo rt to d isp e I s u c h decreed a national referendum Chavez, a former army para­fears, Chavez announced on 
April 25 to allow Venezuelans trooper who led a failed coup March 10 that the 103 mem­to vote for a constituent assem­attempt seven years ago, has bers of the Assembly would be bly to write a new constitution, previously stirred controversy chosen by popular vote. 
¦ PUERTO Rico 
Balloonists reach Atlanti.c 
Associated Press 
SANJUAN 
More than three-quarters of the way around the world. two Weary balloonists reached the Atlantic Ocean on Thursday, seeking a jet stream to help them conquer one of aviation's most elusive goals. 
Buoyed by their success so far. Bertrand Piccard of Switzerland and Brian Jones of England soared over Haiti and Urn Dominican Republic and headed out over the Atlantic. Their goal; A possible Su11day morning landil1g in northwest Africa, perhaps in the remote mountain scrublands of Mali.• 
"If we could only find a fast jet stream and whiz across the Atlantic, that would be great," flight controller Brian Smith said Thursday from a makeshift control tower in Geneva. 
Piccard and Jones already have gone farther without stopping than any balloonist so far. 
By 9 p.m. EST Thursday, Jones, a 51~year-?ld balloon instructor, and Piccard, a 4h-year-old physician, had traveled more than 22,000 mUes of the 26,0Q0..mile odyssey that began with a March ! liftoff from. the Swiss Alps. 
"Tension is building at the control center at Geneva .airport a~f team members realize that 
the COII1pletitur ofthe first. round~the~world 
flight is now mQte than a possibility," said a 
statement Thursday afternoon. . ..· 
The excitement came after one of the most 
difficult days of the 18-day flight, when the huge 
propane-fueled silver balloon was ejected from 
the jet stream Wednesday, slowed down and 
started to drift.. 
Earlier, the team had raced across the Pacific 
in six days and SC()oted over Mexico in less than 
a day, hitting speEJdS ofupto 115 mph. ·.....·· ....·· 
At one polnt Wednesday. the Jet stream seemed to toy with them, spiraling the Breitling Orbiter 3 balloon into a slow-moving corkscrew . and draggingJt south toward Venezuela, instead of east across the Caribbean, Smith 
said. 
Then the pilots developed breathing problems 
and got the. shivers, despite thermal clothing, as 
the air at 36,300 feet sank to 58 degrees below 
zero and a heater could not stop their small 
cabin from chillingto.46 degrees. 
Doctors urged the pilots in computer me$~ sages to breathe additional oxygen. ·After 15 minutes, their<breathing returned to normal. the control tower reported. 




THE OBSERVER 
NnTRF DA!'v!F OHICF: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
1999-2000 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Michelle Krupa MANAGING EmTOR 8tJSINESS MANAGER 
M. Shannon Ryan Dave Rogero 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EIJITOR Laura Petelle 
NEWS EDITOR ...............................Tim Logan ADVERTISING MANAGER....................... Bryan Lurz VIEWPOINT ErnTOR .............Colleen Gaughen AD DESIGN MANAGER ............... Kenneth Kearney SPORTS EDITOR .......................... Brian Kessler SYSTEMS MANAGF.R....................... Michael Revers SCENE EDITOR......................Michad Vanegas CONTROLLER ..................................Timorhy lane SAINT MARY'S ErnTOR .......Colleen M<·Carthy GRAPHICS EDITOR..............................Joe Mueller PHOTO EDITOR .......................Kevin Dalum WEB ADMINISTRATOR.......................Allison Krilla 
The Ohscf\·cr i, the i11Jq,cn,knc n<.'wspapcr puhli,hed hy ,he m,dmts of chc University ofNocrc Dame Ju Lac and Saint i\:1.uy's Collegc..~. h doc:s nor n.crc.:-.'i.,:.trily rdlecr the polici~ of rhe ~1Jministrarion ofeither insdtution. The news is reported as accuracd~, and objci.:civdy as possible. Un~igncd t.xhtori.1ls n:prt.-senc che opinion of rhc major icy ofthe F.Jiror-in-Chic{ ,\1.anaging Edlr_or. Assistant 1\,1anaging Editor and departmenr edirors. Commenrarie~. lerrers and column> pre:•:m ,h., view< ofthe authors .md not ncn-ssarily those ofThe <.?bse_rwr. Viewpoin, :r•~is avaibhle to all members of,he Nmre I ).,mdSaim Mary·, communi1:y and ro J!I rc.iders. 1 he tree cxpres<ron ot varymg oprn1ons duough krters is <encouraged. 
Contacting The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Office Manager/General Information  631-7471  
Managing Ediror/Assisrant ME  631-454 l  Business Office  631-5313  
News  631 -5323  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
Viewpoint  631-5303  Svsrems  631-8839  
Spom Scene  6.~1-4543 631-4540  r-;x Ad E-Mail  631-6927 observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  
Sainr Marv's  631-4324  News E-Mail  observcr.obsncws. l@nd.edu  
Phom/W;b Administrator  631-8767  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint. l@nd.edu  

)'-;-. 
.-..... ...,.,, -1-¼.-•• ;,_"·• .'-~ 
• ... ,~
:::,~~:;:'. 
.,·t:t,~;:.y 
•,-~:.::-· 
¦ RmHT OR WBDNG? 
The Principle of Truth in Labeling in Ex Corde 
Next November, the American bishops will consider a revised draft document to implement Ex Corde Ecclesiae (ECE), the 1990 Apostolic Constitution on Catholic Universities. 

Charles Rice 
The draft was prepared hy a bishops' subcommittee to comply with Vatican insistence that the document include "juridical elements" to make it effective. The disagreements between the universi­ties and the bishops include the following areas, among others: 
The mandate for theologians. Canon Law requires that "those who teach theo­logical disciplines in any institute of high­er studies haw~ a mandate from the com­petent ecclesiastical authority." (Canon 812). 
Fidelity the Magisterium. ECE requires that "Catholic theologians. aware that they fulfill a mandate received from the church, am to be faithful to the magisteri­um of the church as the authentic inter­preter of sacred Scripture and sacred tra­dition." ECE also states that "[o)ne conse­quence of its ess1mtial relationship to the church is that the institutional fidelity of the university to the Christian message includes a recognition of and adherence to the teaching authority of the church in matters of faith and morals." 
The requirement that a majority of the faculty be Catholic. ECE provides that "[iln order not to endanger the Catholic identity of the university or insti­tute of higlwr studilis, the number of non­Catholic teachers should not be allowed to constitute a majority within the institu­tion, which is and must remain Catholic." 
The bishops do not seem eager to enforce ECE in a compulsory way. Moreover, it is unlikely that the leaders of the major American Catholic universities will ever voluntarily accept any effective implementation of the norms of ECE. 
Rev. J. Donald Monan, S.J., former president of Boston College, and Rev. Edward A Malloy, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame. said in the Jan. 30th America magazine: "The portions of the subcommittee draft that threaten ... havoc within Catholic universities ... are ... those that apply small sections of ... Canon Law directed to individual Catholics. These canons have created conundrums since their publication in 1983. [They) prescribe that Catholic teachers of theological disciplines hold a mandate from ecclesiastical authority (Canon 812); that theology professors and some administrative officers make a pro­fession of faith and take an oath of fidelity upon assuming appointment (Canon 833) and that colleges condition an individual's appointment on integrity of doctrine and good character (Canon 810). It is unfortu­nate that [the subcommittee draft tries] to breathe life into canons that, with the full knowledge of the U.S. hierarchy, and with good reason, had been lifeless for 25 years." 
It is not unfair to note that any "lifeless" character of the Canons is attributable to the disobedience of the universities. which now assert the "lifeless" condition of the Canons they reject as a justification for their own further disobedience. Father Monan and Father Malloy said the Canon 812 mandate requirement "is an instrument ... to control what is taught and written. The authority competent to give, deny or remove the mandate is ... external to the university.... Most Catholic professors ... will not request such a mandate, and Catholic universities will take no steps to implement it because of its obvious threat to academic free­dom." Interestingly, their concept of selective obedience is not applied by the universities to their on-campus drinking policies, their stated tuition charge and other rules that they themselves estab­lish. 
The universities and the bishops may be at an impasse. It may be time to recon­sider a proposal made in the 1987 Crisis by William Bentley Ball. the great consti­tutional lawyer and Notre Dame Law School graduate, who died two months ago: 
"My suggestion." Ball wrote, "would ... enable any institution which desired to meet Church criteria ... to be accredited as a Catholic institution. The Iuniversities telll us that accreditation processes. by secular and government agencies, are ... acceptable -even though they involve a great deal of monitoring, ... inspection (and] record-keeping, ... even fas to] 'whether the institution is meeting its stated objectives.' A ... far less cumber­some accrediting process ... could ... be adopted by the Church [so] the Church (couldJ provide Catholics and the public in general list, in each diocese, of Church­accredited colleges and universities. We would then all know who is who. If a stu­dent, or parents, desired higher educa­tion at a college of the faith, they would run no risk of being deceived. If a college desired to be all-out orthodox, it would not be subject to unfair competition by those who tell the government that they arc nonsectarian and the Catholic market that they are Catholic. But what of the (secularizing universities]? Their problem with the Church would be over. They could label themselves anything they wished ... They could do their own thing. But now everyone would know that that thing is not the real thing." 
Instead of forcing institutions to comply with standards they resist, the objective under the Ball approach would be to afford any institutions that do accept ECE, Canon Law and their implementations the opportunity to affirm that acceptance and to pledge to put it into effect. The burden would he on the university. If it accepts those requirements, it could say so. Thn bishops, including the bishop of the dio­cese in which thn school is located. could publish a list of institutions that have made that commitment. Ir the institution reneges on its commitment, the bishops could remove it l'rom the list. Anv over­sight by bishops on the universities would be limited. And juridical cnforcenwnt of the norms and ordinancPs would be greatly minimizPd if not eliminated. 
The governing principle is truth in labnling. If' tlrn "Catholic" universitir.s were selling meat instead of' education and if they labeled generic hamburger as ground round, they could be in legal diffi­culty. The government properly sets bind­ing standards for labeling food. Tho Catholic Church, speaking through the Vicar of Christ, properly sets binding standards for labnling institutions as Catholic. Canon 808 providns that "Even if it really bn Catholic. no university may bear the title or name Catholic university without the consent or the competent ecclesiastical authority." In Veritalis Splendor, John Paul II, citing Canon808, said: "It falls to Ibishops]. in communion with the Holy See, both to grant the title 'Catholic' to Church-related ... universi­ties ... and, in cases of a serious failure to live up to that title, to take it away." 
The criteria that make a university "Catholic" are clearly defined by tlw Pope, who is the only person in the world with tlrn ultimate authority to make that definition. If a university will not live by those criteria, it is a species of consumer fraud for it to claim to be "Catholic." The controversy over Catholic universities need not bn an occasion to start World War Ill. nut it involves a non-negotiable principle of truth in labeling. The way to vindicate that principle may hn simply to consider an adaptation of Mr. Ball's pro­posal. 
Professor Rice is on the /,aw S'clwol Jac­ully. lfis column appears every other Friday. 
The views expressed in this column am those ofthe author and not necessarily those of11w Observer. 
¦ Dom\H:S.BUHY GARRY TRUDEAU 
¦ QuoTE OF Hff DAY 

______........... ..... ........ 

Friday, March I 9, 1999 
-------------------------page 13 
¦ THE COMMON Goon 
The Maximum Living Wage, Part I 
In my last column, I showed how This is because one's position in society use money as one pleases." Yet, he con-Gaudium et Spes goes on to cite the Mich,wl Novak's use of Catholic teaching is never set; therefore one can always eludes that one is to give "that which is implication that Aquinas himself draws on the limits of private property is gain more and not have it be too much. left over" once one has established from the teaching on property, an impli­empty. While he draws on the concepts There is no such thing as accumulating "one's position fairly considered" (para-cation that Leo XIII fails to mention: "If of thP tradition -the idea of tlw univer-too many goods for oneself and one's graph 19). a person is in extreme necessity, he has sal destination of creat<1d goods and the lifestyle. The second effect of dynamic Greater awareness of the increasing the right to take from the riches of 0th­distinction bPtween Lht~ right to privatl~ capitalism, as we have seen, is to deny gap between rich and poor and the fact ers what he himself needs" (paragraph property and tlw use of that property -that the basic necessities -the first that the well-off have not been not giv-69). This quote develops further the he avoids tlrn direct implication of thesP level of material ================================~ ing adequately implication of the idea of the universal 1'.oncepts. That implication is that them goods -are rights. begins with the pon-destination of goods. Leo says to give out 
are moral -that is, required -limits to The poor have no tificate of John XXIII of our superfluity. Gaudium et Spessays
liod d Dav·1 d 
what we can accumulate for our own strict claim on the and the Second that we are to give out of our substance. use. Novak avoids this implication by wealthy; they can Vatican Council. But in quoting Aquinas, it goes even fur-appealing to an undt1rstanding of charity only hope for the This awareness ther to argue that what the person in 
as supererogatory. The moral hero may latter's generosity, leads the Council, in need takes from us is in fact not really
Wh·1tmore 
give generously, but giving up that third which may or may Gaudium et Spes, to ours to begin with. It is a common good, or fourth or even twelfth car is not any-not be forthcoming. emphasize persons' and to the extent that a person lives in a thing that can be demanded based on Catholic teaching obligation to give state of necessity and we do not, his or Catholic social teaching. In this view, on the limits to pri----------------'----"not merely out of her taking it from us does not constitute thern is no amount or accumulation or vate property has developed over the their superfluous goods." In short, the theft in the moral sense. In the 1967 goods that can call a person·s standing past century in response to the increas-Council's view is that if capitalism is document, Populorum Progressio, Paul as a practicing Catholic into question. ingly destructive effects of capitalism. going to erase the distinction between VI quotes the church father Ambrose to 
Catholic social teaching itself, hovvev-The earlier documents still hold to the what is required for one's station in life make the point explicit: "You are not nr. has drawn on tlrn idea of universal three-level understanding of material and what is superfluous, then "the uni-making a gift of your possessions to the d<\stination and the right/use distinction goods and state that one is to give out of versa) purpose for which created goods poor person. You are handing over to to d(!velop quite a different understand-one's superfluity. Writing Rerum are meant" implies that we are to give him what is his. For what has been ing, and it has dorw so as it has become Nouarum in 1891. for instance, Leo XIII out of our substance. We see here that given in common for the use of all, you increasingly awarP of the deleterious has yet to discern any profound erasure in response to the erasure of' the super-have arrogated to_yoursetr' (par. 23). In pffects of consumer-driven capital-other words, YOU an~ the thief. ism. (lien', it is again important to The strongest statement of this k<'ep in mind Catholic teaching's dis-view moves from theft to murder, tinction between capitalism and the and is again in Gaudium el Spes. frpp market. In /,aborem Exercens, The document quotes Gratian's li•r instance!, John Paul II cfofinns the Decretum: "Feed the man dying of l'rt'(' or markPt economv as a market hunger, because if you have not fed Pconomy which is sitw;u,c1 in a corn-him you haw1 killed him": (par. 69). prelwnsiv(~ sodPty such that there is To put it in the terms of conternpo­rPcogn ition ol' tlw primacy of the rary moral theology, starvation is wholn pPrson over simple material not simply an indirect side-effect of wPll-being and ol' thn common good various political and economic ovor individual inten~st. Capitalism, forces; it is a directly committed by delinition. reverses tlw priorities. intrinsically evil act carried out by "Precisely this reversal of ord,~r, those who fail to feed the starving. whatnver tlw program or name Catholic teaching, then, has und,,r which it occurs, should rightly moved from stating that we must lw cal!Pd 'capitalism"' (paragraph 7). give out of our superfluity to requir-John Paul then continuPs this usage ing that we give out our substance, in Centesimw; Annus (par. 42).) to pointing out that that substance is 
As I have discussncl in e·arlier not nmlly ours in the first place. columns, whil" capitalism. so John Paul II confirms this develop­dPliiwd, has undercut formal social ment. Private property is "under difforences, such as aristocratic social mortgage which means that it titles, under the rubric of ,~quality, it has an intrinsically social function, has in fact increased the gap based upon and justified precisely between rich and poor and ignitPd a by the principle of' the universal des­cnaseless quest for consumer goods tination of goods." This requires on the part of the wnll-off. One of the even the cJmrch to give more than effects of ttw dynamic nature of capi-simply out of its "abundance" talism, tlwn, has been to erodn any (Sollicituclo Rei Socialis. 31 and 42). s1ms<1 ol' a maximum living wagti. The Like the recent Popes and Council classical lib<'ral Pconomics of Adam before him,-John Paul II, in Smith, F. i\. I layPk, Milton Fri•~dman, response to capitalism. moves in the and William Simon. and the Catholic opposite direction of neo-conserva­"rwo-conservativism" of Michael tive economics. The critique of the Novak argun that dynamic capitalism rich-poor gap and consumerism is means that the rich-poor gap and strongest of all in his writings. consunwrism are irrelcwant as long Therefore all the more, instead of as the poor are better off. The allowing the erasure of the distinc­wealthy can consunrn as much as tion between substance and super-they want. Simon, tlw Chair of the fluity to lead to a lifting of any self-tillPd "Lay Commission on requirement to give, John Paul Catholic Social 'foarhing and thn strengthens the requirement. \'\'here Economy," has been quoted as say"-he goes beyond the earlier docu­ing that "Grend is not a sin." ments is in his awareness that meet-
Oflicial Catholic teaching has a ing the requirement involves much vPry different read on dynamir. capi-more than an individual change of talism and its implications. heart. In Centesimus Annus he Traditional t<iaching has lwld that writes that. "it is not enough to them am thrnn lcvPls or classes or draw on the surplus goods which in material goods or possPssions. The fact our world abundantly produces; first consists of the basic necessities it requinis above all a change of of lifr: food, work, slwltcr, health lifestyles, of models of production care. and so forth. These rwcessities / and consumption, and of established are what is gerrnrally included under ,-structures of.power which today tlw title of "economic rights" in govern societies" (paragraph 58). Catholic doctrinn, which neo-conscr-One concrnte implication of the vativPs dPny to lw rights at all. The individual and social changes
4,
second IPvPI or class of goods an• required by Catholic teaching in thosP things that arP common or typ-response to capitalism is the maxi­ical f'or a person of a particular social mum living wage: them are specific class. The third 1.-vel of' goods are limits to what we can accumulate thosP which an' not n>.quircd to main-of the distinction between what is called fluity/substance distinction, official for our own consumption. I \-Vil! detail lain 01w·s social position. The three lev-for by one's station in life and what is Catholic teaching moves in the opposite these limits next time. <'ls of matPrial goods can be understood superfluous. He draws on the key direction of neo-conservativism, away· as tlw l•'vPls of 1) rrncessity, 2) sub-Catholic concepts. quoting Thomas from the neo-conservative removal of Todd David ~Vhitmore is an associate stam'.(1, and 3) superfluity. Aquinas that. "Man should not consider any real requirement to give and professor in theology. I/is column rims 
Tlw lirst Plfoct of' dynamic capitalism his outward possessions his own, but as towards making that requirement more every other Friday. ­has lwen to eras<' tlw distinction common to all," and arguing that "it is strict. If there is no difference between The views expressed in this column h<'lWPPn what is required l'or one's posi-one thing to have a right to a possession substance and superfluity, then we must are those ofthe author and not neces­tion in sodPty and what is supnrfluous. of monny, and another to have a right to give out of our substance. sarily those cjJ The Obsen1er. 
• _-· 7 ...., -;. l •---••"' _., • I t 

page 14-------------------------THE. ---------------Friday,March 19, 1999
OBSERVER 


, 
s 


This Sunday's Acaden predictability, lots 
By JULIE HAMILTON played by Cate Blanchett. It focuses on her mat-waJ Assistant Scene Editor uration into the responsible role as Queen. the The problem with "Elizabeth" is a very com-tha The nominees in each major catagory of the mon obstacle for historical pieces -information pas Academy Awards, which will air this Sunday on is deleted and recreated according to the taste ties ABC, are consistently from the same films that of the directors, producers and writers. Their die1 represent the best that Hollywood had to offer in decisions should reflect historical accuracy, intc 1998 -"Saving Private Ryan," "Shakespeare in which they usually do. However, what one per-aw Love" and "Life is Beautiful." This year, the son deems important may not follow for anoth-T Academy Awards will be closely competitive and er. The film is rich with the history it actually Bea each nominee is deserving of its nomination. But provides, yet it stumbles enough to lose its the only a choice few will take home the gold statue chance at an Oscar. sev this Sunday. "The Thin Red Line," by Terrence Malick, has fref ,I a confusing storyline -not in such a way as to the BEST PICTURE keep you in suspense, but in such a way that the Each of the five films nominated for best pic­you do not know what is happening. The figli ture boasts wonderful strenghts. However, it is imagery in the film -focuses on the interplay the their weaknesses that will set them apart come between humans and nature. This is a nice twist bon Sunday night. The film that entertains and for a war film, but it is underdeveloped in terms the intrigues the Academy the most will be reward­of plot and characters. The film makes you think hU11 ed with the most coveted award in the film and draw your own conclusions, which leaves tion industry. some unsatisfied and others intrigued. Ben 
"Saving Private Ryan" and "Shakespeare in "Shakespeare in Love" is John Madden's mas-of i Love" possess blockbuster casts of previous terpiece that is reminiscent of Shakespeare's Pict Oscar winners and nominees and popular classic play, "Romeo and Juliet." It is a Hollywood box-office stars. Tom Hanks makes a reminder of the passion of the Shakespearean clear impact on "Saving Private Ryan," while era where ladies and gentlemen whispered in T: Gwyneth Paltrow adds to the charm of words of prose. Edv "Shakespeare in Love." Despite the appeal of The film's stars, Gwyneth Paltrow, Joseph Rot these stars, they unfortunately cannot always Fiennes and Ben Affleck, perform superbly in tern carry their entire films on their performances their roles. Paltrow is especially enchanting as T1 alone. A film that deserves the Oscar has to Viola, a noblewoman whose love for poetry and Cap have more than good actors playing inspira­theater inspires her to achieve her dreams of per: tional roles -it has to be an intricately-woven being on the stage. She captures the attention of the balance of plot, setting and entertainment value. the young Will Shakespeare, who in. turn spe, 
The three films that seem to be in the closest becomes obsessed with writing a play devoted to plis contest are "Shakespeare in Love," "Saving her spirit. This play soon becomes "Romeo and eve Private Ryan" and the foreign-language film Juliet." bee "Life is Beautiful." "Saving Private Ryan" and "Shakespeare in Love" is a tale of unbridled as, "Pfe is Beautiful" both play on similar circum­love, forbidden passions and human inspiration, R, stances -World War II and the human stories illustrating the Shakepearian era vividly and as ( behind it. However, the writers took two com­accurately. Although the film is impressive, it is Wo pletely different angles on the war. "Life is too connected to stories already told. Therefore nat1 Beautiful" is a refreshing view of World War II, its lack of originality does not warrant the wa~ where "Saving Private Ryan" is traditonal and Academy Award for Best Picture. log. strongly vivid. The remaining nominees, "The "Saving Private Ryan" is an epic film by Steven enc Thin Red Line" and "Elizabeth," are definitely Speilberg, set in the same time period as his ter' worthy of the Academy's consideration as well. Academy Award winning "Schindler's List." It rea1 
But the three that are more likely to win are has already collected several awards, including par in that position because they have proven Golden Globes for best film, director, and actor. Act, already that they are more effective at previous The film is a hauntingly true depiction of World award ceremonies, polls, and the box-office. War IL 
Shekhar Kapur's ornate film, .. Elizabeth" What sets it apart is its main theme: "The mis~ Tl transports us to England in the dark 1500s, sion is a man." Rather than monotonously acti 
__...... 1 
which were saturated with luxury. The obvious shooting battle scene after battle scene, the film Pal centerpiece of the film is Queen Elizabeth, has the triumphant goal of keeping the audience Mm
.,. .... 
. ' .­
And TLe No¦nlnees ~re .... 
Bf PICTURE BEST ACll 
Eizabeth Cate Blanchett, E 
' 
I 
Life is Beautiful Fernanda Montenegro, (
I, 
1-1 
!i 
Saving Private Ryan Gwyneth Paltrow, Shake Shakespeare in Love Meryl Streep, One 1 TheThin Red Line Emily Watson, HMI 
BEST DIRECTOR BEST SIJPP(lRJ11 
Roberto Benigni, Life is Beautiful Kathy Bates, Prima John Madden, Shakespeare in Love Brenda Blethyn, Li Terrence Malick, The Thin Red Line JudiDench,ShakestN 
Steven Spielberg, Saving Private Ryan Rachel Griffiths, Hillar Peter Weir, The Truman Show Lynn Redgrave, Gods , 
w E 
D
cene" 
Friday, March 19, 1999-------------------OTHE ----------------------page15·
BSERVER 

:s of respectability 
waiting for Private Ryan to show up. It captures the horror and atrocities of war more believably than many previous war films. It also encom­passes more aspects of the war than simply bat­tles -it shows the war affects on families, sol­dier's individualized experiences and a glimpse into the function of war on an everyday basis, as away of temporary life. 
The overwhelming dramedy, "Life is Beautiful," -winner of the Grand Jury Prize at the prestigious Cannes Film Festival and also several Screen Actors' Guild awards -is a fresh and honest look at the gruesomeness of the Holocaust. Rather than merely focusing on the atrocities of human loss, it emphasizes the fight between basic good and evil during one of the most testing times in world history. The bond of a family's love overcomes the effects of the war in this true classic. The triumph of the human spirit amazes and is as close to perfec­tion as a film's plot and lesson can get. Roberto Benigni's "Life is Beautiful" deserves every one of its accolades, including the Oscar for Best Picture. 
BEST ACTOR 
The nominees for Best Actor are Nick Nolte, Edward Norton, Ian McKellan, Tom Hanks and Roberto Benigni. Only the last two look to con­tend for the gold statue come Sunday night. 
Tom Hanks satisfied audiences in his role as Capt. Miller in "Saving Private Ryan." His solid performance added believability and realism to the film, mainly because of his character's per­spectives and determinism to get tasks accom­plished. His performance was not superb, how­ever. It was a traditional role that could have been executed by several other talented actors as well. 
Roberto Benigni stands out in his performance as Guido, an Italian Jew caught in the throes of World War II. The role seemed so completely natural that the acting was not mechanical -it was perfection. Benigni glides through the dia­logue and action of the film and makes the audi­ence feel as if he has truly endured his charac­ter's life, rather than simply acting a part and reading a script. This lack of visible effort on his part makes him the choice for Oscar's Best Actor. 
BEST ACTRESS 
The contest for Best Actress includes veteran actress Meryl Streep, Cate Blanchett, Gwyneth Paltrow, Emily Watson and Fernanda Montenegro. Gwyneth Paltrow is quickly build­ing her successful reputation as a demanding actress, most recently exceeding expectations in her charming role as Viola, the young lover of William Shakespeare. She performs exquisitely as a dramatic woman who is restricted from what she considers the true pleasures in life ­poetry, acting and theater. Cate Blanchett gives a convincing portrayal of Queen Elizabeth in "Elizabeth," but Paltrow's role was more fitting and inspiring. The Academy Award should go to her. 
BEST DIRECTOR 
John Madden's "Shakespeare in Love" is entertaining and romantic, providing clear insight into the Shakespearean era. The scenery is lush and impressive, with gorgeous costumes amidst the enchanting renaissance towns of England. "Shakespeare m Love 1s a rn1ry tarn with all of the right stuff. But with all fairness, the competition -Steven Spielberg, Roberto Benigni, Terrence Malick and Peter Weir -pos­sess more compelling directing pieces. 
Peter Weir's "The Truman Show" is a decent attempt at a new wave of films that question personal existence and reality. Weir's idea is original and thought-provoking, deserving the recognition that it received with its nomination. However, up against the other directors, Weir's film can't prevail. 
"Life is Beautiful" was also directed by its star, Roberto Benigni, who does a fair job with the film. The directing is not outstanding by any means, however, as "Life is Beautiful" is a sim­ple film that did not require fanr.y anglP.s_ ThP. film was convincing only by remaining direct. 
Although "Life is Beautiful" deserves the award for Best Picture, Steven Speilberg stiH overrides Benigni, for his acute direction of sol­diers at war, as well as his recreatioD of the harsh reality of World War II. Spielberg gets the Oscar. 
Last year's Academy Awards were fraught with monotony as a result of the sinking of the "Titanic." Predictability became the theme of the evening when James Cameron's tale of pas­sion on the icy seas swept the spectrum of cate­gories. This year. it's going to be a different story. The five nominees for best picture have unique and individual strengths. but none of them has the potential to overwhelm every category. 
Enjoy the show on Sunday night, and expect the unexpected. 
... 
ACID 
hett, Eizabeth ,e,o, Central Station Shakespeare in Love 1, One True Thing Hilay and Jackie 
Rl1NCAC1RESS ,Primary Colors 
~yn, little Voice 
akespeare in Love ,HiflarJ and Jackie Gods and Monsters 
l l 
. .·•''<: 
~~ ,_
BESTACTOI 
-~ 
\J~• 
,'
Roberto Benigni, Life is Beautiful ;; . Tom Hanks, Saving Private Ryan Ian McKellan, Gods and Monsters 
Nick Nolte, Affliction Edward Norton, American History X 
BEST SUPPORTING ACTOR 
,. 
James Coburn, Affliction Robert Duvall, ACivil Action Ed Hanis, The Truman 
Geoffrey Rush, Shakespe BiHy Bob Thornton, ASimp 
.---~-----------""!3-----------------------------............_____..-i ___._..._. .......--,...... _
__...... ____ __.......__..,.......... 
E 
----------------Friday,March 19, 1999 

Oscar's final f i..,e take tLe stage witL a recent Listory of Best Picture 
By CHRISTIAN A. PIERCE 
Scene Movie Criric 
WeU, we've finally reached March Madness, a compet­itive month in which opponenli; battle for the title. For most people, March invokes thoughts of college teams, jump shots at the buzzer and Dicky V. screaming, "Oh Baby." Yet, for others, March Madness involves ritzy lim­ousines, lame speeches and little gold men. For the film industry. this time of year means celebrating the Oscars. The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences has nominated what they feel stand as the best films of 1998. Now vve must simply await the announcement, "And the ,,inner is ... " 
The films of 1998 have made it to the fourth quarter, now we must see vvho has enough gas to finish the game. The field includes the unorthodox style of '!The Thin Red Line," the imported lineup of "Life is Beautiful," the hall-of-fame stars of "Saving Private Ryan," the rookie squad of 
"Shakespeare in Love" and the "Bravehoart," an proficient play-calling of epic along the linos "Elizabeth." Each team has a or "Ben llur." definite strength, yet they all Gibson starred as know only one can win, as William Wallacn, a Oscar rarely allows ties. Scottish patriot who 
In prepa~ing for this year's hoped to earn his final, we see highlight reels country's f'rc\Niom from past events. from England. Tlw Commentators like to blurt out lilm follows vVallact• stats vvhich declare the likeli­through lov1• and hood of a team taking the win. war, displaying orw Well. the Oscars are no excep­man's ronqw•st f"or tion to such predictions. IH' rson al rights. Comparing this year's nomi­·· BravPlwart" sur­nees to \\inners of the '90s will passed all action point out certain trends which films or tlw tinw, often direct the Academy's and tlrn Academy selections. Now, this is not to took d11liniw notic<\ claim that the analysis of past of such stellar 
years will determine 1998's winner, but it will give a good idea as to which film may in fact be the front•runner. 
The first film to win in the '90s was Kevin Costner's project, "Dances with Wolves," by far his greatest work. Ilis more recent attempts at this type of film, "Waterworld" and "The Postman," give the impression that Costner is box-office poison. Certainly that is true lately, but he did have a brilliant past, as demonstrated bv "Dances." 
·The film looks at a Civil War Lieutenant who no longer knows why he is fighting. Lt. Dunbar, played by Costner, loses faith in the army and requests a station on the frontier for isolation. The cinematography displays the sheer beauty of the frontier west before it was won. With this loneliness, Dunbar discovers who he is and what he wants. He then befriends a Native American tribe, whose members eventually accept him into their com­munity. 
The film then points out the wrongs committed by the white man against the Native Americans and their land. This historical epic displays America's conquest of the west, as it rapes nature of the purity it once had. Costner's piece was a personal vision and one that deserved the recognition it received. 
In 1991, the Academy swiftly reacted to the historical epic of the previous year by selecting a thiller ­Jonathan Demmc's "The Silence of the Lambs." This had no other choice. Spielberg had crafted a masllirpiPce that displayed the triumph of the human will -just what the Academy likes. 
After two consecutive years of" highly emotional lilms. the Academy needed a film that was less traumatic. In 1994, Hobert Zemeckis submitted "Forrest Gump" for consideration as Best Picture. Like "Sd1indler·s List," this film was flu-above the n~st of the year's lilms. Tim film stars Tom Hanks as Forrnst Gun1p, a simple-minded man with a heart of gold. Ilanks solidifiNI his level or maturity with this piece. and it has only grown stronger. Zemeckis follows Gump throughout his lifo, obs1irving the achievements of such an honest individual. Gump never strays from what he foels is right. a crndenct~ that leads him to incredible success in lifo. All the way around, "Forrest Gump" was an incrediblP pine<•. a clPar \\-inner. 
Something the '90s had not truly recognizPd until this point was an action film. In 1995. this diangl'd with M<'I Gibson's 

choice illustrates how the Academy enjoys a unique film. Demme's film was certainly unique, starring Sir Anthony Hopkins as serial killer Dr. Hannibal "The Cannibal" Lector. Hopkins played one of the most horrifying char­acters in film history, a portrayal which won him his own Oscar. Jodie Foster also won an Oscar playing Clarice Starling, the FBI agent who participates in a bat­

tle of minds with Lector, attempting to solve a murder case. 
The chemistrv between Foster and Hopkins is supe~b and unparalleled in recent years. Dcmme's vision of horror frightened its audience and scared the Academy into selecting it as its winner. 
Well, if a thiller won in '91, the Academy certainly reacted in 1992 by selecting a western -or rather an anti-western. Clint Eastwood's film "Unforgiven" won in 1992 for its "realist" look at the western genre. 
When discussing westerns, one often looks to the heroic pieces starring John Wayne. Eastwood uses "Unforgiven" to declare that John Wayne is simply .a fairy talc. 
"Unforgiven" follows the character of William Munny (Eastwood), a retired mur­derer who returns to his trade to kill two men for a large sum of money. In hunting down the men, we see how run-down l\1unny has become, barely able to mount his horse. Eastwood uses this character as an opportunity to display how ruthless, gritty and corrupt the west was. In his film, lead characters die, innocent people get hurt and no one truly comes out a winner. This film is so innovative, the Academy must have felt obligated to choose it, a western that repudiates the glorified west of John Wayne. 
As if "Unforgiven" wasn't depressing enough, 1993 saw one of the most emo­tionally draining films of all time. That year, the Academy chose Steven Spielberg's ·personally significant work, "Schindler's List." One of only two biogra­phies to win in the '90s, "Schindler's List" follows the actions taken by Oskar Schindler during the Holocaust. Spielberg brought heroism to the screen and glorified a figure neglected by history. 
Liam Neeson brilliantly plays Oskar Schindler, the man who saved 1,100 Jews from genocide during World War II. This • true story demonstrates how one man reacted to the wrongs committed by his countrymen. In 1993, the Academy clearly work. 
Following an action film, tlwre St\PlllS only 01w plan! to go -romantic drama. In 1996, Anthony Minghdla direct<•d thn tragic story of' romance. "Tlw English Pati1\nt." A visually stun­ning film of lifo in North .Africa beforn and during World War II, the film included the all-star cast or Halph Fiennes, Jullietto Binoche, Willom Dafoe and Kristin Scott Thomas. This cast gelled like no otlwr in rPccnt years, bringing the perils of romance during war to lifo. The film is an emotional roller coaster, but is still a ride worth taking. The Academy dearly noted the quality of acting and story in "The English Patient. " and awarded the memorable effort. 
The last f'ilm to win the big prize was James Cameron's box office giant, "'Titanic." Again, the Academy awarded another love story. but this film remains unique for its overwhelming use of a fomale lead. The film stars Kate Winslet as Hose Dewitt Bukater and Leonrdo DiCaprio as Jack Dawson. Even though most people consider DiCaprio the central character, the Academy disagreed \'\-1th popular opinion by only giving Winslet an acting nomination. Though this \Vas not an overly original film -"It Happened One Night" follows a similar story about the Titanic's maiden voyage -the Academy took notice of this film when it broke box-office records left and right. "Titanic" did deserve recognition. but this year the Academy will react with forcn. mainly . because of Cameron's snooty speech at the award cere­mony. 
Now back to this year's nominees. The key this Sunday ""ill be uniqueness imd originality. War films have flood­ed the '90s. so "The Thin Hed Line" and "Saving Private Hyan" are out of the running. Spielberg also tTeated a better piece with "Schindler's List" -"Saving Privato Ryan" was just not of the same caliber. Historical biogra­phies of British royalty are getting old as well. so kiss "Elizabeth" goodbye. 
That leaves only two films, and honestly, it seems a toss-up. On pure ingenuity. "Life is Beautiful" excelled this year, but it is unfortunately a foreign film. The Academy does not look kindly on foreign films, as they have a separate foreign-language c.ategory, where "I.ifo is Beautiful" should win. 
That leaves "Shakespeare in Love," a ratlwr unmatched idf~a for film. writing a fictitous lifo and romance about the non-fictitous William Shakespeare. The late '90s have been full of love stories, but they· all seem to have led up to the direction taken with "Shakespeare." This film never appears corny like "Titanic," or so emotionally involved as "The English Patient." Manv humorous references are made to Shakespeare's \vorks. and the Academy 'typically loves sophisticated entertainment. All around, the film has what it takes to be a \.\'inner. So if the Oscar betting pool is going around, and you need a pick, go with "Shakespeare in Love." It just might walk away with championship gold. 

Friday, March 19, 1999 
The Observer• CLASSIFIEDS page 17 
¦ NBA 
Kukoc's 21 points lead Bulls over Marbury, Nets 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
Too bad the Chicago Bulls can't play the New Jersey Nets every night. 
Toni Kukoc scornd 21 points and grabhed 11 n~bounds, and Ron Harper scored l O of his 18 points in the third quarter as the Bulls beat the New .Jersey Nets 104-95 on Thursday. All five Chicago (7­
16) starters finished in double figures. 
It was the Bulls' second vic­tory in 10 days over the slumping Nets (4-19), and only their second 100-point effort of the season. The other'! Last week's 103-87 rout of New Jers!~Y-
The Nets have now lost nine of their last 10 and 15 of their 
last 17. New Jersey fired coach 
John Calipari on Tuesday, but interim coach Don Casey donsn't seem to be having much better luck. The Nets are 1-2 under Casey. 
Stephon Marbury led the Nets with 24, his fourth 20­plus game since being traded from Minnesota last week. But he got off to a slow start. and by the time he found his groove, it was too late for the Nets. lie had 14 in the fourth quarter, but was 7-of-24 from the floor. including 1-of-7 in the first half. · 
The Nets also got 20 from Kerry Kittles, who was 4-of-7 from· thn~r~-point range. 
The Bulls went on an 18-5 run at the end of the first half and beginning of the second, 
¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Angels' Hill again finds his wings 
Associated Press 
TEMPE, Ariz. 
There's nothing like zip­ping a few fastballs past bat­ters to convince a long-ailing pitcher that he's back in form. 
The Anaheim Angels' Ken Hill, who struggled through elbow and shoulder prob­lems the last two years, looked like the Ken Hill of old as he struck out five and allowed one run on four hits in four iilnings against the Colorado Hockies. 
"I felt comfortable, and I haven't folt comfortable the last couple of years," he said. 
Hill pitched in pain early last season, had surgery to remove bone chips and spurs f'rom his right elbow in June and didn't return to the Angels until Aug. 28. 
"I was hurt in April of last year and I still pitched," Hill recalled. "I can take so much pain, but it was unbeliev­able." 
Hill. who was 16-10 with a 
3.6:3 EHA with Texas in 
1996, was acquired by the Angels in a 1997 trade that sent catcher Jim Leyritz and infielder Robert Sasser to the Rangers in late July. 
Hill, who strained his right shoulder in May of that year and seemed to be bothered by it later, was 4-4 with Anaheim that season, and 9­6 in 19 appearancf-35 last year. 
This spdng, he feels healthy again and believes he is throwing as well as ever. 
"My splitter got to moving like it used to. Location is still the big thing. I've got to be more aggressive, estab­lish my fastball in and out," he said after the Angels' 13­7 victory over the Rockies on Thursday. 
Slowly but surely, he's regaining the confidence to challenge hitters. 
"It feels good to throw the fastball 90-92 mph, the split• ter, the slider," said Hill. 3 3. 
''When you're not able to throw inside, tho hitters arc all over the plate and can reach anything you throw." 
taking a 60-51 lead on  Taco Bell -the crowd went  Nets didn't score again before  
Harper's dunk with 8:52 left in  wild.  halftime, and the Bulls got  
the third quarter. He capped  Kukoc, who also put the  treys from Brent Barry and  
an 8-0 run to end the quarter  Bulls over the 100-point mark  Cory Carr to give them a 50-46  
with a jumper and layup, and  last week, went to the free  lead at halftime.  
the Bulls took an 80-65 lead  throw line with 1:04 left with  It was four years ago  
into the fourth quarter.  the Bulls ahead 99-88. The  Thursday that Michael Jordan  
But the fourth-quarter woes  crowd groaned when he  announced he was coming out  
that have plagued Chicago  missed his first free throw, but  of retirement. He played his  
most of the season surfaced  he sank the second, drawing  first game the f'ollowing day,  
again, as the Bulls went score­ huge cheers and a standing  scoring 19 points in Chicago's  
less for almost the first four  ovation.  overtime loss at the Indiana  
minutes. The Nets, meanwhile,  A 16-0 run gave the Bulls a  Pacers. In a strange twist of  
opened with a 9-0 run, cut­ 30-18 lead with 1 :35 left in the  deja vu, Chicago will play at  
ting the lead to 80-74 on  first quarter. But they were  Indiana on Friday night. But  
Marbury's two free throws  scoreless for the next 5:22,  don't expect Jordan to suit up.  
with 9:15 left to play.  and former Bull Scott Burrell's  Bulls rookie Corey Benjamin  
But Kukoc nailed a jumper  layup cut the lead to 30-29.  was placed on the injured  
and converted on a three­ Kittles scored 10 of his 16  reserve list with tonsillitis.  
point play, and the Nets  first-half points -including  Chicago's 30 points in the first  
couldn't get any closer. And as  back-to-back three-pointers - quarter was its highest output  
the Bulls got close to the 100­ as New Jersey went on a 12-3  since scoring 33 in the first  
point mark -which means a  run, taking a 46-40 lead with  quarter against the L.A.  
free taco for every fan from  2:12 left in the half. But the  Clippers.  
¦ MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL  

UConn ends Iowa's hot streak 
Associated Press "If' we go out and play 40 min­they left the court. 
utes of Connecticut basketball, "It was the dirtiest situation PHOENIX we should come away with a I've ever been involved in," 
When push came to shove. victory against anyone," point Freeman said. "l put my elbows and there was plenty of both, guard Khalid El-Amin said. out to protect myself. If they Connecticut had too much tal­The decisive surge Thursday want to play that style we can ent. too much quickness and too came when UConn clamped on play that style, too. \Ve're a much depth for Iowa. the defense, while Freeman and tough team. We play in the 
For awhile in Thursday night's Richard Hamilton turned on the toughest league. We can play \Nest Regional semifinal, bullish offense. physical." strength. f1ying elbows andthe "When the game got real Calhoun wouldn't criticize intense emotion of what would close, I felt I had to really dig Iowa's tactics. Quite the con­be the last game for Tom Davis deep and really try to step my trary. as Iowa coach were enough for game up," Hamilton said. "I didn't see any cheap shots," the Hawkeyes to fight UConn to "When I wasn't open, I tried to Calhoun said. "I saw some very a standoff. get it to K(w, and Kev did an physical play on a team that 
Then came the last 10 min­excellent job of scoring. \Ve're wasn't as quick as us. They utes, and the Big East champi­that type of team. \!Ve want to played within the rules the way ons pulled away for a 78-68 vic­compete and make big-time the game was being called. I tory. plays." think Tom tried to do everything 
"They figured they could do it Hamilton scored 24 points and humanly possible to make a by bullying us," Connecticut's Khalid El-Amin added 21 for slower team quick. Kevin Freeman said. "But UConn despite foul trouble. "Once again, he almost got my 
we knew we weren't going to let "It was one of' the more physi­number because it's the first them get away with it." cal games we've played in a time I beat Tom Davis. I told The Huskies (31-2), the West's long time," Calhoun said. "It him. 'I hope I have a chance to 
No. 1 seed, advanced to a was like being in a Big East beat you again."' regional final for the second brawl." It \Von't come against Iowa. year in a row and the fourth The Huskies outscored Iowa Davis was told last fall that his time since 1990 under coach 25-15 in the last 10 minutes. contract wouldn't be renewed Jim Calhoun. Much was made of a flying after this season. 
But Calhoun never has gotten elbow thrown by Iowa's Joey "I don't know that l've ever the Huskies to the Final Four. Range at El-Amin late in the put more into a team in the Now only a Saturday game first half. Further altercations sense that they gave so against upstart Gonzaga stands followed in the nasty final sec­much,"Davis said. "I am wiped in the Big East champions' way. onds of the half, and the players, out, emotionally as well as phys­
The Huskies are confident with Iowa's Jacob Jaacks at the ically drained, and I'm sure the they can end the Zags' magical center of the trouble, engaged in team is. They gave you a great, tournament run. a brief shoving match before great effort." 
VISIT US www.raquettelake.com 1-800-786-8373 
NOTICES 
Babysitter needed in my How Green is Green? home.Flexible day time hours.Call 
243-5540. Work ,n Ireland on a Student Work Abroad Program and find out1 Part time on-campus 
promotional position. Call 1-888-Council and ask for www2Clix.com. a start up web-site Tom. for college students needs 6 on-
campus promoters to spread the word about 
ILOST & FOUNDI our site. 10-15 hours a week.flexi­
ble.$8-$12/hr Lost: 100 CDs that were in a black promotional experience Case Logic carrying case. Lost in helpful.Contact: Kevin Leavitt LaFortune the night of 2/26/99. 1 ·877-2clixcorn.e-mail to Monetary reward being ottered if . k1eavitt@2clix.com. found. No questions asked. Please call Brian at 4· 1126 w/ any info. SUMMER EMPLOYMENT: 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. co 3 p.m. ar the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m: All classifieds must be p~epaid. _
Classifieds 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 1 he Observ.:'r reserves rhe nghr to ed1r all classifieds for content wirhour issuing refunds. 
TICKETS 
COUNTDOWN TO THE 
•• LEWIS CRUSH •• NEED GRADUATION 22 DAYS TICKETS will YOU be invited? Call Kelly @ 243-8932 
I need graduation tickets' My name is Julie and I am a bar fly. Call Kelly @243-8932 MW -my favorite social coordinator. 
PERSONAL 
Jersey · Jay-Z sends his love. 
Fax it fast at THE COPY SHOP in Ali • Congrats on working so hard LaFortune. FAX Sending and on JMW. It's gonna be great' You Receiving: 631-FAX1 rock. 
When you need copies AB_ sorority sister and fellow bar We're OPEN'!! fly. Let's go see Jeff this weekend1 
\, 
Let's get more pies of us and THE COPY SHOP strangers. LaFortune Student Center 
ART EDUCATION 631-COPY Thanks to all of my friends who pro-LOST. Gold Locket. Oval -if ASSISTANT BED 'N BREAKFAST vided me with a great St Patty's found: call Victoria, x4659 SNITE ART MUSEUM.Get REGISTRY FOR SALE Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight Day. 
teaching experience while 219-291-7153 Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm making a difference in South NEW Rates Phone Cards Sat: Noon-6:00pm AG-What day is it? Oh, Friday? 
WANTED 
Bend'Assist Education House For Rent 282 min. $20 call 258-4805 Sun: Noon-Midnight Guess where we're going to be 
Curator with summer youth 4-5 Bedroom tonight? A deaf is a deal11 HEY You111 One or two roommates art program focusing on Close to Campus Steel bookcase. 7 shelves. Call needed for ·99.·oo year at College museum objects and art Includes: Dishwasher. 246-1668 $6 HAIRCUTS Hey my 19-year-old freshman bud. Park with two female students. For making.June 1-July 30, 15-20 Washer/Dryer. Fridge, Stove. Amanda' more details call Julie @ 284· 5238 hours per week.Fine Arts &educa· Remodeling Kitchen in spring. Beauliful brass bed,queen size.with Vito's Barbershop 
tion majors with exp RENT REDUCEDI orthopedic mattress set and deluxe 1523 Lincolnway West No 90210 for three weeks, Noah SUMMER CAMP JOBS teaching &/or working with Call 289-4712 frame.New.never used.still in plas-Closed Sun. and Wed. needs something to do on Wed LAND/WATER SPORTS children preferred.INCLUDES tic.$235 Mon.Tues.Thurs,Fri 8-4 nights now ... ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS/ ROOM & BOARD June 20 219·862-2082 Sat. 8-3 II you can think of something for 
LAKE PLACID July 30. him to do .. call him 4-0604 (6/20-7130,additional Work Study hours-if eligible-with National Youth Sports Program.tor total 40 hrs/wk if desired}CALL ASAP for application form 631-4435 App. deadline April 6. 
FOR RENT 
WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BEDROOM START ING $185 
MONTH/PERSON 232-2595 
NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND 8,6,4,3,BEDROOM 2773097 Tri-level 3 bdrm house, 1-1/2 mi. from campus across from park with 
1-1 /2 baths, family room with fire­place. 2-car garage, fenced-in back yard. AC, stove, refrig, W/D, G/O & D/W. $995/mo. 683-5038 or 232­4527 
New 3-4 bdrom home tor lease. Fireplace, family room, 2-car garage, 2 full baths All deluxe appls. A/C. $1200/mo. 232-4527 or 683-5038. 
5/6 BDRM HOMES. NEAR CAM­PUS. FURN. 272-6551 
2 blks. from campus. 4-5 bdrm home. fireplace. 10' ceilings $650/mo. available now. Call Jason @289·4365 
page 18 The Observer. NCM TOURNAMENT Friday, March 19, 1999 
Jarvis, St. John's finds 'elite' victory over Maryland 
¦ MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Associatt'd Press 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. 
\1ike Jarvis didn't realize just how good St. John's was in the first half. 
The Hed Storm scored 20 straight points over the final 
7: l l of the first half Thursday night and went on to beat Marvland 76-62 to reach the finai of the NCAA South Regional. 
"The first half was incn~dible, particularly the defense. Until l was told at halftime we had a 20-0 run, I didn't know how good a run it was," Jarvis said. 
St. John's (28-8) never trailed after going inside to Bootsy Thornton late in the first half. The Red Storm had suffered through an early 4-of-l 8 shoot­
'l ing slump before consecutive baskets by Thornton started what became the game-deciding run. Thornton. who finished with l 7 points, converted a dandy pass from Ron Artest into a bas­ket and a 20-l9 lead with 7 :11 left. "I wasn't expecting to be up 19 or 20. It gave me confidence in my team. There is no waywe could do that except as a team," Artest said. After a Maryland miss. Barkley fed Thornton for anoth­er inside shot. As St. John's scored 20 straight points to take a 38-19 halftime lead, Maryland missed its last 10 shots and had its lowest scoring half of the sea­son. "They didn't get a chance to run what thev wanted to run," Thornton said. "We took away a lot of what they wanted to. I think that's why they got frus­trated." St. John's plays Ohio State, a 72-64 winner over Auburn, Saturday for a trip to the Final Four. Maryland (28-6} finally came alive midway through the second half, but it wasn't enough to avoid having its season end in the round of 16 for the fourth time in six years. "That is small consolation -vvhat happened in the first half," said Maryland coach Gary Williams. "We would have liked to have lost giving it our best shot offensively and defensively. It just got out of hand in the first half and that really cost us." 
Five days after handing 
Indiana its worst NCM tourna­ment defeat ever, St. John's appeared on the way to another blowout victory before Maryland used a 19-2 run to get within single digits. 
Still. things ended with anoth­er premature exit from the NCAA tournament for Maryland. 
The Terrapins have made l 3 NCM tournament appearances since advancing to their lastre­gional title game, in l 975. 
'Tm very disappointed," said Williams, who has 399 career victories. "I always am when the season is over. but especially tonight. I think we had a special group that had a chance to advance." 
The pressure was on Maryland to make it to the Final Four. But Jarvis. who took George Washington to the round of 16 in 1993, has tried to take pressure off his young team by telling them to have fun and enjoy their "fantastic voyage" through the tournament. 
They must have really enjoyed themselves against Maryland. 
When the Terrapins finally got the deficit under 10 points twice in the second half, Erick Barkley -who led St. John's with 24 points -responded. 
Maryland's 19-2 run ended on driving layup by Steve Francis with 6:33 left that made it 58-49. 
After Barkley hit two free throws with 5:42 left. Francis made hit two free throws for Maryland. But Barkley's three­pointer from the top of the key pushed the margin back to 63­51 and Maryland never got under double digits again. 
"I anticipated the run and I told the kids it was coming. Was I nervous'? You bet your life I was." Jarvis said. "Did I think we were going to lose'? No, but I did ask for a little divine help." 
Francis, with 13 points, was the only player in double Dgurns for Maryland. who shot only 35 percent from the field and fin­ished well below its season scor­ing average of 85.2. 
St. John's had a 56-30 lead, its largest, before freshman Danny Miller's three-pointer with 10:39 left started the Terps' surge dur­ing which six different players scored. Mi!ler also converted a three-point play. 
"You just keep playing, hope shots will fall and you can get some stops. We couldn't do Pither one," said Maryland's Laron Profit. 
Gonzaga 73, Florida 72 
Gonzaga's wild NCAA ride is one more upset from a trip to the Final Four. 
The scrappy Bulldogs, on Casey Calvary's tip-in with 4.4 seconds to go Thursday night, surged into the NCAA West Regional final, edging Florida 73-72. 
"This is unbelievable," said Calvary, who last hit a game­winning shot "in the third or fourth grade. We've dreamed about this since we were little and now that we're there, we have to take advantage of it." 
The 10th-seeded Bulldogs of the overlooked West Coast Conference trailed by three when Jeremy Eaton made a layup and Florida's Brent Wright then traveled with 15.4 seconds left. 
Quentin Hall drove to the bas­ket and missed, and Calvary, who had 10 points in the second half, tipped it home. 
Florida's Eddie Shannon missed an off-balance three­pointer at the buzzer. sending Gonzaga within one step of its first Final Four. 
"We were blessed today," Gonzaga's Matt Santangelo said. "It was not a pretty game, but we showed the heart and char­acter of the team. It's like getting 
· a new life and we'll savor it and then come ready to play Saturday." That will be against top-seed­ed Connecticut, which beat Iowa 78-68. Again, Gonzaga. just the fifth 10th seed to get this far ­none has made the Final Four ­will be an underdog. That doesn't bother the Bulldogs a bit. "This team has great charac­ter and they are great kids," coach Dan Monson said. "There are a lot of teams at home with 

better basketball ability, but we three-point leader, was wide get through that with chemistry open for his fourth three of the and character." night with 45. 7 seconds 
Florida is one of those highly remaining. setting up the frantic skilled teams no longer in the finish. tournament. The Gators made "We wern rushing, going too one critical error down the fast at times," Gators coach Billy stretch when Wright walked, Donovan said. "The and it was enough to decide the turnovers hurt us." game. Gonzaga showed surprising 
"It just hurts inside that I Int stnrngth inside in the second the team down," Wright said. half', making things easier for its "It's just real sad." guard-oriented offense. Several 
"I thought the ref gave me a times, Florida didn't deny entry timeout, but it was too late." passes. setting up insidn 
Freshman Mike Miller's layup shots for the Bulldogs. When the put Florida on top 69-68, and Gators did sag, it opened thn Santangelo tied it with a foul outside for Richie Frahm, shot. while Calvary was the main ben­
Greg Stolt, the Gators' earner eficiary underneath. 
~ 
1~ nL  ~-z Trattoria ~ --, )~NOW  
Italian/Sicilian  ~:j0  Op EN  
Dining  

South Bend's newest Italian Restaurant Great family owned tradition Italian specialties made to order 
Fresh Prepared Pasta dinners, Veal, Chicken and Seafood Deep Dish Chicago Style or Traditional Thin Crust Pizza Fine beverage seJection 
Family Style Dinners for parties of 10 or more 
Dial Phone Appetit, 674-0900 Category 8466 for more info. Located Downtown South Bend 235 S. Michigan St. 233-1000 
Reservations recommended 


• 
umrn ill) t, 
I) ~Iffi.TMIE 
Now Leasing For Fall 1999 
• Conveniently located 4 Blocks from Campus r Student Lease Available 
• 
• or One Month free rent with a year lease • Large 2-Bedrooms for under $500.00!! 
"The Best Value In Off Campus Living" 
r 
Professionally Managed by Real Estate Management Corp. 
_,, 
234-9923 
X xv I I I 
BOOKSTORE XXVIII IS COMING SOON REGULAR SIGN-UPS IN LAFORTUNE 
Mon. March 15th-Fri. March 19th $13 Reg. Fee Mon. March 22nd-Wed. March 24 $16 Reg. Fee 
'/Ob ·reams is the Guiness record. 
Friday, March 19, 1999 The Observer• NCAA TOURNAMENT page 19 
¦ MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Buckeyes give Tigers an early ticket back to Alabama 
the stretch. 
The Southeastern Conference's highest-scoring team missed seven straight shots after Scott Pohlman's three-pointer tied the game at 61. 
Neither team could grab the momentum in a game where they swapped the lead 1 7 times. Auburn coach Cliff Ellis said his Tigers had their chances with three minutes left. 
"Penn and (Michael} Redd came on and took them over the hump," Ellis said. After Brown started the 9-0 run with his free throw, Redd added two foul shots, Penn made a basket, Brown stole the ball from Bryant Smith and fed it to Jason Singleton for a dunk, and Singleton added free throws to put Ohio State up 70-61. 
"We went into the game knowing Ohio State was a very good team. You see why they have had such success," Ellis said. "Scoonie Penn hit big shots. They were huge when they came. He and Redd are tremendous basketball players." 
The victory put Ohio State in its first regional final since 1992, when the Buckeyes lost to Michigan. 
Redd added 22 points and 10 rebounds for the Buckeyes. 
Chris Porter, the SEC's play­er of the year, led Auburn with 15 points but fouled out with 1 :57 remaining. Robinson finished with 14, and Smith had 10. 
Ohio State led for nearly the first eight minutes of the sflc­ond half until Auburn went on an 11-2 run started by Pohlman, who finished with only seven points after scoring a career-high 28 in the Tigers' second-round victory over Oklahoma State. 
The spurt put Auburn up 52-46 with 10:17 remaining, but the Tigers couldn't hold onto that edge. Auburn wound up with 18 turnovers, and Ohio State converted them into 17 points. The Buckeyes took good care of the ball and lost it only nine times. 
Penn, the Big Ten's player of the year, went to the bench with his fourth foul with 13:23 left. He came back and pulled Ohio State within 52-51 with a three-pointer and a baseline drive. 
Neither team led by more than three until Ohio State's late run. 
Ohio State, which held its first two opponents in the tournament to just 28 percent shooting, continued its stingy defense against Auburn in the first half, when the Tigers were 8-for-29. 
Redd set the tone for the night on the Buckeyes' open­ing possession. He calmly took a pass with the shot clock winding down and hit a three­pointer as the buzzer sound­ed. But Ohio State couldn't shake the Tigers, who set a school record for victories this season. 
The teams swapped the lead back and forth before Penn hit a long three-pointer with 18.5 J seconds left to give Ohio State a 31-26 halftime lead. 
Associated Press beat top-seeded Auburn 72-64 come back to try and accom­Thursday night in the South plish a little more. Just when I KNOXVILLE, Tenn. Regional semifinals. ask myself 'Can they do any­
Ohio State, which finished "This just keeps hitting me more?' They surprise me and last in the Big Ten a year ago, right between the eyes," said do more." is now one victory away from Ohio State coach Jim O'Brien, Ohio State (26-8) advanced the Final Four. whose Buckeyes struggled to to Saturday's regional final 
The Buckeyes broke open a an 8-22 record last season. against St. John's, which tie game with nine straight "How these guys constantly defeated Maryland 76-62 in 
points down the stretch and 
NEEDAJOB for the 1999-2000 academic year? 
Student Activities is now accepting applications for all areas: 
LaFortune Building Managers Stepan Center Managers Ballroom Monitors Office Assistants Set Up Crew Infonnation Desk Attendants Sound Technicians ND Express Shipping Attendants 
Applications available at 315 LaFortune. Deadline for applying is Thursday, April 1. For n1ore information, call 631--7308. 
the other semifinal. 
Brian Brown's free throw broke a 61-61 tie with 2:41 left and Ohio State opened a 70-61 lead before Auburn's Doc Robinson banked in a meaningless three­pointer with 6.5 sec­onds left. 
The Buckeyes' suc­cess is no surprise to Scoonie Penn, the guard who followed O'Brien to Ohio State from Boston College. He predicted last fall that the Buckeyes would turn it around and make the the NCAA tournament this season. 
"Look at us now. I'm sure they will believe me now," said Penn, who scored 19 of his 26 points in the sec­ond half despite play­ing with four fouls the final 10 minutes. Auburn (29-4), which hadn't been to the round of 16 since 1986, became the first No. 1 seed to fall in this year's tourna­ment thanks to some cold shooting down 

the answer , • s 
Deloitte & Touche is an equal opportunity firm. We recruit, employ, train, compensate, and promote without regard to race, religion, creed" color, national origin, age, gender, sexual orientation, marital status, disability, or veteran status. 
©1999 Deloitte & Touche LLP. 

page 20 
The Observer• PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, March 19, 1999 
{ l bein
! 

I 
l 

,,?~; 
,~ 
! 
I 
I . I 
, I 
'I I I 
j 

I 
I 
I 
'I 
'I 
I' 
SPONSORED BY: 
Il 
I ! I 
I 
co MM ITT EE o N 
GAY AND LESBIAN 
STUDENT NEEDS 



What does the Church say and not say about homosexuality? 
Monday, March 22, 1999 
7:30 p.m. Hesburgh Center Auditorium Hesburgh Center for International Studies 
Public Reception to follow in the Great Hall of the Hesburgh Center 
Peter Liuzzi, O.Carm. was ordained a  
Carmelite priest in 1965. He holds an M.A.  
in religious education from Loyola University)  
Chicago. Along with his work as teacher  
and campus minister, Father Liuzzi has  
spent more than 20 years in gay and lesbian  "In you God's love  
ministry. Currently he is director of  is revealed."  
Ministry with Lesbian and Gay Catholics  Always Our Children,  
in the Archdiocese of Los Angeles.  A Statement of the  
Bishops' Committee on  
Marriage and Family,  
National Conference of  
Catholic Bishops  

• 
Friday, March 19, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 21 
¦ NBA ¦ BOXING 
Rodman faces fine Williams testifies before Senate 
upon return to L.A. 
Associated Press Arena on Thursday night that Hodman spoke with executive LOS ANGELES vice president Jerry West and 
An end to Dennis Bodman ·s general manager Mitch leave of absence from the Los Kupchak earlier in the day. Angeles LakE~rs appears to be "Apparently, he's making 
in sight. some progress taking c.are of 
And although Rodman is the personal business he needs being paid despite missing to take care of," Black said. games and practices, coach "We exper,t him to rejoin us Kurt Hambis said in Cleveland sometime soon, in the not-to­the wayward forward will be distant future." fined. The game against Cleveland 
Team spokesman John Black was the first of four in five told The Associated Press sev­days for the Lakers, who then eral hours before the Lakers play at Philadelphia, Orlando faced the Cavaliers at Gund and Dallas to complete a six­
game road trip. 
Asked if he expected Hodman to rejoin the team on the trip. which ends Monday night in Dallas, Black replied, "That we're not sure of; hope­
All Show, Bdorc 6 PM S4.(M) 
fully."
s.J.(Xl Children/Senior, S650 Adult 
Stereo Surround Sound in all Thc,itres Black said Hodman continues 
to be paid for the games he's
Baby Geniuses PG 
2:30 4:55 7:05 9:25 
missed the game at
R 2:05 5.00 7:45 10:30 
8mm 
Cleveland was the third since 
PG-13 1:35 4:10 7:20 9:45 ss 
Forces of Nature 
Hodman told the Lakers he 2:35 5:05 8:00 10:30 ss 
needed time off to deal with
PG-13 1 :30 4:35 7:35 1O: 15 
Life is Beautiful 
personal issues. 
Message in a Bottle R 1:15 4:05 7:10 9:55 
However. Ram bis told 
October Sky PG 
reporters Wednesday that
2:00 4:40 9:50 ss 
• Special Sneak Preview! Sat. of Ed TV 
Rodman "definitely will be 
3/20 at 7:25 with "October Sky" stay and see it free! 
fined." 
R
Payback 
Black's only comment on
1 :45 4:20 7:05 9:40 R
Rushmore 
that subject was, "That will be 
1:55 4:25 Saving Private Ryan R 
handled internallv." 
1 :30 5:15 9:20 
Black added his denial to a
Shakespeare In Love R 1 :50 4:30 7:55 10:35 
TNT cable network report that 
R 1:40 4:50 7:50 10:25 
The Corruptor 
team members voted unani• 
The King and I G 
mously that Rodman be fined.
1 :20 3:30 5:40 7:50 9:50 ss 

The Other Sister PG-13 
Hambis and several players
1:25 4 20 7:15 10:05 Two Hundred Cigarettes R 
had said \Vednesday that the 
7:40 10:10 
report ·was untrue. 
Jt)(!Al'S TlllU Olll.1 FOUi Im AOVAif« TI(!(l't SAi.lS i'IANDICAP J\CClSl!&tl . NO P:.SSES • flO W99~VUS 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
The judge at the center of the controversial Lennox Lewis­Evander Holyfield draw said Thursday that her view of the fight was obscured at times by photographers. 
Testifying at a New York state Senate hearing, Eugenia Williams also said that after watching a tape of Saturday's heavyweight unification fight, she would have scored it a draw, instead of 115-113 for Holyfield. 
That scoring, however, would not have changed the ultimate outcome. If Williams had scored the fifth round for Lewis, her card would have been 114-114, and the decision would have been a majority draw. 
Williams, of Atlantic City. N.J.. appeared at the state Senate Committee on Investigations hearing and held fast in her belief that she had correctly judged the fight 115-113 for Holvfield. 
A0sked by state Sen. Roy Goodman if she had second thoughts about her opinion, Williams replied: "No sir. [ scored what I saw when [ saw 
it.,. After watching a replay. Williams said she would have scored the fifth round for Lewis. But she added, "What I saw that night is not what the cam­era saw. They were at a differ­rent angle than I was. I only score the blows I see." Williams also said that during several rounds, including the fifth, her vision was sometimes blocked by ringside photogra­phers whom she had to push 

aside. 
Williams, a 10-year veteran of judging who works as a $39,200-a-year accounts clerk for Atlantic City, confirmed reports that she had filed for bankruptcy recently, but denied that there had been any attempt by anyone to help her financially in exchange for influencing her judgment. 
"Absolutely not," she replied. 
As the investigation got under way, a still furious Lewis returned home to London and demanded that "everything should be looked into." 
He urged Holyfield to hand over the WBA and IBF titles. 
"If Evander's a man, he should admit that he got beat and give me my belts," the WBC champi­on said. "But he's not that kind of character." 
"You could say that Evander Holyfield is holding my belts right now for me. They're actu­ally my belts, but he's holding them." 
Separately, Manhattan District Attorney Robert Morgenthau has convened a grand jury to issue subpoenas and gather testimony about Saturday's unification bout. In addition, the New York state Athletic Commission also is investigating. 
Of the other judges, South Africa's Stan Christodoulou, scored the fight 116-113 for Lewis and Britain's Larry O'Connell scored it 115-115. Most who watched the fight thought Lewis had clearly won. 
IBF president Bob Lee, whose organization selected Williams, defended her work. 
"I am sure they aren't going to find anything irregular at all." he 

•Used 
books bought and sold 

•25 
Categorks of Books 

•25,000 
Hardback and Paperback hooks in stock 

•Out-of-Print 
search seryicc: $2.00 

•Appraisals 
large and small 


Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 
said. "It is a subjective viewing of a fight and you can't tell these judges what to see or what not to see. All I tell them is, 'Do the best you can.' " 
Lewis' manager Frank Maloney said he didn't believe bribes had been paid, but he questioned \Villiams' compe­tence. 
"I don't believe there was any illegal payment, they wouldn't have been that stupid," Maloney said. "They may not find money in her bank account, but there was definitely something wrong with her judging." 
Soon after touching down at London's Heathrow Airport, Lewis maintained he had been the victim of a "conspiracy" and that the judges had been "incompetent." 
"I think everything should be looked into," Lewis said. "There was definitely something going on, some kind of conspiracy we don't know about." 
"In this particular fight the public got hurt as well ... I say Don King should apologize and definitely the judges." 
"Next time I'm going to defi­nitely bring my two judges, my own two judges," Lewis added. 
Lewis, criticized for not being more aggressive -particularly in the fifth when he had Holyfield on the ropes -said going for the knockout would have been risky. 
"In the fifth he wasn't as hurt as I thought. I wasn't satisfied I could go in there and feel safe," Lewis said. "He was definitely playing possum and he admitted it on TV. 
"But if I had realized it was going to be like that, I would have went out there ... and real­ized my only hope was a knock­out and go after it." 
In Atlanta, Holyfield was quot­ed as saying he understood the judges' decision perfectly. 
"The judges said it was a draw. Healistically, he didn't knock me out, and I didn't knock him out. It's all based on a deci­sion," Holyfield told the Atlanta Journal-Constitution. 
Holyfield said Lewis didn't do as well as some people said. 

page 22 The Observer• SPORTS Friday, March 19, 1999 
¦ ON THE Hor CORNER
Swimming 
continued from page 28 
Automatic bids make March Madness fun 
: I
l' 
I 
' 
' 
competition with the 200­meter medley relay, where thev are ranked 14th. Kline, Alison Lloyd and Shannon Suddarth all hope to swim their way into finals in the 100 breaststroke. They are currently ranked 12th. 17th and 22nd, respectively. 
Lloyd and Suddarth will also compete in Saturday's 200­meter breaststroke, where they will both need to move up in the rankings to make finals. 
Mattingly will compete on the three-meter springboard, and Nixon will have her 
NOTRE DAME QUALiflED A RECORD EIGHT ATH­
LETFS FOR THE CHAMPI­
ONSHIPS. THE IRISH HOPE 
TO FlNISH AMONG THE TOP 15 TEAMS, UP FROM LAST YEAR'S FlNISH OF 23RD. 
cha nee to move up from a 16th place ranking in the 100 butterfly. 
Notre Dame qualified a record eight athletes for the championships. The Irish hope to finish among the top 15 teams, up from last yea.r's finish of 23rd. 
With 18 athletes, host Georgia is favored to win the meet. Stanford, the defending national champions, and Arizona are not far behind in the rankings. 
Top-ranked host Georgia leads the team scoring with 
143.5 points. Southern Methodist is in second -just six points behind with 137.5, l'ollm,ved by defending nation­al champions Stanford with 129 points. 
l 
By BRIAN CHURNEY 
Spores Columnist 
Could you imagine how much less exciting the NCAA tournament this year would­have been without Weber State beating North Carolina, Detroit beating UCLA, or Creighton beating Louisville? 
Ilow about without Gonzaga, Miami of Ohio or South West Missouri State making their Cinderella runs? 
Had it not been for auto­matic bids and the NCAA tournament selection commit­tee's very recent trend of inviting lesser known, minor conference teams we may not have been able to enjoy any of these success stories. 
With all of the craziness surrounding this year's NCAA tournament, it's hard to claim that anything is certain. It seems that only uncertainty is absolute. 
There is, however, one clear fact that the results of the NCAA tournament have made evident. This fact is that the NCAA should continue its recent trend of inviting small conference regular season champions whether they win their conference tournament or not. 
Here are the facts: nine non-major conference teams in particular could have been considered "on the bubble" if they hadn't won their confer­ence tournaments. These teams were Creighton, Evansville, Southwest Missouri State (all from the Mississippi Valley), Gonzaga (West Coast), Detroit (Midwestern Collegiatfl), \Neher State Wig Sky), Miami of Ohio, Kent (Mid-American) and Murray State (Ohio Valley). 
All of these teams could 
i 
Chinese -American Restaurant
I 
I 
and Cocktail Lounge 
Authentic Szechuan, Mandarin and Hunan Cuisine 

Lunches starting at ....$4.25 Dinners starting at ....$5.95 Banquet rooms available for up to 200 
Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 
lJO Dixie Way N., South Bend {next to Howard Johnson) 

GENDER ISSUES & LAW 
Law students are gathering empirical data in South Bend. You are invited to briefly share your insights concerning the following topics. Participants will be eligible to win a prize. 
Topic One 
Viability of Private Women's Colleges 
Please describe your experiences as a woman at St. Mary's College or at Notre Dame. Call 634-3980, or email Ncesha.Singh.9@nd.edu. 
Topic Two 
Suing the NCAA: A New Era in Tide IX Enforcement 
Share personal experiences as a woman athlete in high school or college. Have you ever been involved in a sex discrimination lawsuit? Call 243-5626, or email Isaac.Ruiz. l3@nd.edu. 
have had a legitimate claim to at-large bids if their confer­ence tournaments had not gone as planned. Of the nine teams selected, six got into the tournament with automat­ic bids and three were select­ed as at large bids. 
Not only have these nine teams proved worthy of tour­nament bids, but many of them proved more worthy than their larger conference. better-known foes. These nine teams have compiled a record this year of 9-6 -bet­ter than a 50 percent success rate (something Irish basket­ball fans know little about). 
This winning percentage is very close to the winning per­centage of major conferences. Of the three teams that the tournament selection commit­tee chose to extend to the ever-elusive at-large bids, two (SW Missouri State and Miami of Ohio) are still in the tour­nament. In fact, six of the nine "bubble teams" won at least their first round games -all being upsets. 
Some claim that these teams are flukes; others claim that the opposition was caught off guard. 
As for me, I find it hard to call a team that had over 20 wins a fluke. I also find it hard to agree with the "catch­ing their opponents off guard" theme. Every year, a No. 12 seed beats a No. 5 seed. I sin­cerely don't believe that any No. 5 seed in the tournament doesn't take its opponent very seriously. Yet Detroit man­aged to knock off UCLA and Soutwest Missouri State man­aged to upset Wisconsin. 
In reality, its time for the public to come to realize what the NCAA selection committee is only now starting to under­stand. The time has come to recognize that national pow­crs don't necessarily have to come from one of the major conferences. Sometimes strength of schedules are deceiving, and these teams not only deserve to be in the tournament but deserve just seedings as well. 
While the successes of Purdue and Oklahoma make a strong argument for extend­ing bids to mediocre, major­conference teams, little argu­ment exists for expelling these smaller conference teams. The most prevailing argument for keeping lesser­knowns out of the tournament is that while their records are impressive, their schedules look more like Nebraska's non-conference football schedule than something wor­thy of an invitation. 
This happens mostly as a result of larger teams refus­ing to play these up-and-c9m­ing teams. 
What do teams like UConn and Duke have to gain from playing upstart teams like Miami or Gonzaga? The answer is nothing. A win is perceived as an expected vic­tory against a lesser foe. A loss, however, is a huge upset. 
Consequently, these lesser knowns have a hard time finding teams that will play them, especially if they appear to be dangerous. Even when they do find large pro­file teams to play them, it sel­dom is at home. 
Beating Kansas at Lawrence or Duke in Durham is a much more difficult task than at onfl's own home. Should these teams be punished come selection time because other teams are afraid to play 
· them? I think not. The tournament, then, is the only way to rnward these teams for finishing a season 
with a great record. In the tournament these lesser knowns get a shot at the high profile teams. Recently, and especially this year, these lesser-knowns are making good on that shot. 
If the NCAA doesn't contin­ue its recent trend of inviting lesser knowns, tlrny eliminate the possibility of any sort of "changing of' the guard." Smaller programs use the added exposurn of the tourna­ment as a tool in recruiting. If they are ever to advance "to the next level," they need to continue being invited to Urn tournament and get opportu­nities to "play with the big boys." 
Furthermore, not inviting these teams would drastically lessen the possibilities for upsets and excitement throughout the tournament. Parity in college basketball is becoming more and more apparent. It allows for upsets, close games and exciting fin­ishes. 
Overall, it significantly improves the entertainment value of the tournament. Ilow many people watched Valparaiso make its run last year? How _many more are going to watch one of this year's Cinderellas as opposed to a run of' the mill Swnct 1<> game? 
The NCAA owes it to these up-and-coming teams to con­tinue to give them a shot at playing on the level or the Dukes and the Km1tuckys. Not only will it benelit the NCAA, but also the schools them­selves. 
After all, they'vp earned it. 
The opinions expressed in lhis column are those r~f the upstart, underrated author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Be our guest for the premiere medical ethics lecture ofthe year. A tirne to share your questions and aspirations with alumni physicians. 
J. Philip Clarke Family Lecture in Medical Ethics 
''Death and Dipity'' 
Our society is deeply ambivalent about death. On the one hand, we seek control and mas­tery over it. On the other, we are increasingly asked to find ways to accept death as no affront to our dignity and as a natural part of life. I will display this ambivalence by reflecting upon several of the stories recounted by Ira Byock, a hospice physician, in his book, Dying Well. But I will set those stories into the larger context of disputes about death itself--whether it is an "indignity", whether it should be resisted or accepted, whether human beings are simply "a part" of nature or, rather, are set "apart". 
Gilbert Meilaender 
~oard of Directors Chair in Christia11 Ethics Valparaiso University 
Friday, March 19, 1999 
4:00 p.m. 
Center for Continuing Education, Auditoriurn Reception following the lecture 
Sponsored by: Notre Dame Alumni Association Alumni Continuing Education 

Friday, March 19, 1999 
The Observer• SPORTS page 23 
¦ IRISH INSIGHT 
Unfair politics leaves Irish out of 'big dance' 
first-round hosting spots, the Lady Tigers home court in Baton By ANTHONY BIANCO Irish were doomed to lose from Rouge, La. A first•round win Assistanr Spom Editor tlrn Sunday nearly two weeks against St. Mary's (Calif.) ago when the seedings were matched the Irish against the 
The Irish could easily be in Los announced. bracket's other winner, LSU. Angeles right now aw,iiting to "\Ve were pretty disappointed "We were traveling to a place play Louisiana Tech in the NCAI\ when the rankings came out," we hadn't been to," said Riley. tournament Saturday night. said All·American center Ruth "They clearly had the advantage 
But the Irish's third·straight HilPy. "\Ve were shocked. We playing on the home court." trip to tlin Swoct 16 was haltNI <>xpccted to go down a little with Beyond the obvious advantage by LSU last Monday night in a Niele [Ivey] out, but not that of playing in front of their faith­74-64 Lady Tiger win. The Irish much." ful fans, the Lady Tigers also may haV<' been sideli1wd for the As if losing starting point had historv on their side. LSU season at that point, but the guard Ivey in the semifinals of has not lost a non-conference fouls ,vere only just beginning. the Big East tournament was not matchup at Baton Houge since 
The entire team. from players bad enough for the Irish. the Jan. 30, 1995 -a streak of 36 to head coach Mullet McGraw. selection committee literally games. 
,. believes that the NCM selection added insult to injury. A No. 5 Such a perfect setup for the committee \'\'as partially respon­ranking fbr Notre Dame placed Lady Tigers that it seems to sible for the loss. McGraw's No. them just far enough out of the have been scripted. Or set up. 8 ranking in the polls and No. 11 rankings to force them to travel "I don't think there's any spot in the Hatings Percentage 975 miles to begin play. question that the selection com· Index were not good enough to And with that, the stage was mittee shows favoritism, and we secure a homecourt advantage. set to play the first two rounds of need to stop that," said McGraw. Failing to earn one of the 16 the tournament at the No. 4 seed \'Vho was on the selection com­mittee that gave the Lady Tigers the home court advantage? LSU assistant athletic director Debbie Corum. 
The answer, indicated McGraw. is a system similar to the men's basketball NG'\A tour­nament. 
"The only way they can stop Ithe favoritism l is to put this tournament on neutral courts," she said. "I think the NCAA · could have done as well on a neutral court as they did here." 

The men's tournament follows a system similar to the one pro­posed by McGraw and currently on the NCAA's table. If it goes through, teams would still be allowed to play at home, yet no team could host two years in a row or more than twice in four 

Office of Information Technologies 
Student Employment Summer 1999 1999/2000 Academic Year 

The OIT is accepting new applications for student 
employment for Summer 1999 and the 1999/2000 
academic year for the following computer support areas: 
• Resident Computer Consultants (RCCs) 
Work up to 6 hours per week 
RCCs help students connect to the network from their dorm room and answer questions about network software. For more information regarding responsibilities, visit http://www.nd.edu/~rccs/RCC_Handbook_ 1998.html/ 
• Cluster Consultants 
Minimum of 8 hours per week 
Consultants answer questions regarding the hardware and software in the computer clusters. For additional information, visit hffp://www.nd.edu/~cluscons/ 
Your student online application may be submitted at: www.nd.edu/-..ndoit/employ
',. 

years. · Even a more regionalized sys­tem would be more beneficial, argues Riley. Drawing Irish fans to a game that Purdue is hosting is more advantageous than attempting to get Irish support in Louisiana -especially when LSU is on the court. 
The rest of this year's tourna• ment is no different. Each of the top 16 teams has advanced to the regionals, with only five upsets in the 48 games played, the committee should be happy with their selections. 
Has the better team won? Not according to McGraw. "If we're playing at home," she said. "We're moving on." 
For now, the Irish must settle on watching a lesser opponent take one step closer to fulfilling a dream Notre Dame believed was theirs throughout their best•ever 26-5 season. 

*..e~1fvi-s~~ q.all
*t~,2 Roo.,,n ~ I B~ *11 Mdu/;uun e~ -,... *{jn/uu~ *,t/ll~~ 
*e~~~ 
*SSCWUJ~ 

-
S~fut~ 
,. 
2.33-2.098 
.( ­
----1-.---­
I: 
t. 
I1 
i' 
t 
t. 

I 
' 
I 
I 
I I I I I 
,, 

' 
I : 

~ 
page 24 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, March 19, 1999 

;'()!
1J' 
->::: .,.·' • 
)' .:>/ 
•.. ·-.... 

·Tomorrow • 10:30 am -5:30 pm • South Dining Hall 
No Greater Love is like a day-long retreat, a youth rally, and music fest all in one. 
And there's no better way to recharge your faith life after Spring Break and get ready for Easter Week. No Greater Love is the first of its kind at Notre Dame. We've taken the best Notre Dame has to offer from its spiritual life, the classroom, music and liturgy, and its re­treats and squeezed it into one power-packed day designed to ener­gize and inspire us all. We invite you to join us for a Notre Dame day of prayer, music and renewal. 
ffe;ve;'~ how fhe; da'1 will bve;ak down: 
Things get going at 10:30am with registration. Show up early to make sure you get the discussion groups you want or email us at ND.ministry.l@nd.edu before Saturday for an Early Sign Up form. Pre-registration is NOT required. Then, at 11 :00 am things really get moving. Fr. Mike Baxter and Fr. Cyprian Consiglio ,vill lead us in song, prayer, and all sorts of fun. At 12:00 pm, the first discussion groups begin. There will be 6 presenters from which to choose (see side), then lunch@ 1pm with an acoustic coffeehouse featuring Justin Dunn and Mark Lang. FYI, there will also be optional activities throughout the day like r ~------~·-----·-·--~·"-~ ...,---·-· ----··-7 sacramental reconciliation, 
Sc,he,dvfe, I stations of the cross, rosary, 
10:30am  
WELCOME & REGISTRATION  
11 :00am  
KICK-OFF  
• Music & Morning prayer  Fr. Cyprian Consiglio, OSB Cam.  
• Scripture & Preaching  Fr. Michael Baxter, CSC  
• Student Talk  Kelly Rich, '02  
12:00pm  

DISCUSSION GROUPS (SEE SIDE) 
• also, optional activities: Sacramental Reconciliation available in the Quiet Space (until 4pm) Eucharistic Adoration begins in Fisher Hall Chapel (Until 4pm) 
1:00pm LUNCH 
• Acoustic Coffeehouse Justin Dunn & Mark Lang 
2:00pm 
D1scuss10N GROUPS 
• 
beginnning with Music & Prayer in Stage Area 

• 
also, rosary @ Fisher Hall Chapel 


3:00pm 
D1SCUSSION GROUPS 
• 
beginning with Music & Prayer in Stage Area 

• 
also, Stations of the Cross@ Dillon Hall Chapel 


4:00pm WRAP•UP 
4:30pm CLOSING MASS 
and Eucharistic Adoration 
that you can do instead of a discussion group. At 2pm & 3pm: two more discussion groups. 4pm: Everyone's back together with Fr. Baxter & Fr. Cyprian with some concluding words which will flow right into the closing Mass at 4:30! 
If you can't make it to the whole day, try to come for the opening at 11 am or join us at any time of the day. We'd love to have you for all 
or some of the activities. 


.··· J2j@~Siotf?h~y-ovp 
Sc,he,dv(e, 
12pm Discussion Groups 
at;~~t;'!;f~j:< : 
,,,.,,,,,,.,,,,.·•""''·  <~  Fr. Mark Poorman, CSC  
,,  ·Sex, Culture, & Christianity  
• Fr. Brian Daley, S.J.  

The Meaning of Lent 
i 
I 
. i ~ 
!I II * 
~ 
I 
I 
I* 
I
I 
II 
I, 
· 
·,I 
. • Sr. Carrine Etheridge, IHM 
I 
I I 
I 
~ 
I 
I
t
I 
ii•· 
I¥ 
1 
i
f 
I 
• Sr. Sue Bruno, OSF 
Vocations 
• BIii Dalley, CSC 
Prayer 
• Fr. BIii Seetch, CSC Reconciliation t
•Fr. Jim Lies, CSC I 
~u~::~;::P~;e~~=~ 
i 
I
The Catholic Social Teaching ~ 
Ii 
=2=':.:..:.mc-=---=~=~s,:.;::::..::~=;=:'-"-i;=;=h-"":=:--=o=un-Pc=S
0 I 
Afrocentric Spirituality & I the Sacred Scriptures r
•Fr. Brian Daley, S.J. I 
The Meaning of Lent j 
• Fr. Jim Foster, CSC I 
! t 
Medicine & Ethics * 
An lgnation Meditation: ii Up the Road to I 
Jerusalem, Jesus & His Friends I 
• John Cavadinl 
l 
Eucharist I 
• Fr. BIii Seetch, CSC ;
I 
Reconciliation 
I 
=3=p.:..:.m-=---=D=is,:.;:c::..::u=s=s=io=n~G=r--=o=u-p:.=s i 
• Chandra Johnson ~ 
~ 
Afrocentric Spirituality & I 
~
the Sacred Scriptures 
• Fr. BIii Wack,CSC 
Responding to God's 
Call in your Life 
• Fr. Jim Foster, CSC Medicine & Ethics 
, • Sr. Carrine Etheridge, IHM i. 1 An /gnation Meditation: I Up the Road to 
Jerusalem, Jesus & His Friends .
I • John Cavadini i Eucharist 
• Fr. Jim Lies, CSC & Colleen Knight 
Our Best Kept Secret: The Catholic Social Teaching 
For info: Email: ND.ministry.1@nd.edu or Call: 631-3250(Pre-registration is not required, but encouraged!) 
I
J 
f 
I' 
f 
f I 
l


" 
l 
I 


·-----­
a 2
a a 2 2 a a 
-
Friday, March 19, 1999 
The Observer •SPORTS page 25 
Fencing 
continued from page 28 
many observers bPlieved would be an extremely close match. Szelle, how­ever, dominated LaValle and defeated the senior All-American 5·0. 
LaValle bounced back 
from  the  first  loss  by  
defeating  his  brother  
David.  a  freshman  at  

Stanford, 5·0. Further suc­cess for LaVal!P was hard to find as he finished the day frustrated and in 14th place. 
Through the first three rounds of competition. the sabre team earned 17 points. 
"On the sabre side, it has been disappointing." coach Auriol said. "They should have done better." 
The foil team fared worse than the sabre team. llayes and Auriol combined to earn only 10 points for the Irish. In 
head-to-head competi­
tion, Hayes defeated 
Auriol 5-3. 
Both Hayes and Auriol 
were close in most 
bouts, but could not quite win the final touch. Between the two of them, they lost four bouts by 5-4 margins. 
Most frustrating for the Irish was their perfor­mance against the peren­nial fenr.ing powerhouse and the only other school to qualify 10 fencers: Penn State. In head-to-head competition, the Nittany Lions defeated the Irish six out of eight matches. The sabre team managed to split the Penn State series as both Szelle and LaValle each won and lost one match. 
The foil team was swept by the powerful Penn State foil team of Gang Lu and David Lidow. Lidow and Lu stand in second and third place overall. 
Stanford freshman Felix Heichling finished the day 
r-------------------------are to have a shot
A -t.f
A
t~Xa
sp EC I AL ~alO!fJ.. 
INVI TATIO N 
Announces rhe Following Introductory Offers of... r-------, ,.--------, r--------, r------, r------, 1 20% OFF 1 1 $26 1 • $59 1 • Man's 1 1 $69 1 
I I I I I I I I I I I Aveda I I Cut& I IColor,Cut&Stylcl 1HaircutOnly1 I Hilites& I 
I I I I I I I I I I 1 Cosmetics 1 1 Style 1 1OneProcess1 1 $l5 1 •Cut&Style1
L-------_Pl~;s;-c~llt~ sch;J;;l;yo-u~ ~pp;i;.;;;,1 ~;-----.J
~ 11 
Pb.le use the Special Savings invirarion and get LO know us. You'II he pleased with the qualiry and service we Ad mUJt be pmrnted M nwptumist provide. and Wl' will do our best[() merit your confidence befi:,",rrvim arr pffjonntd and patronage. (Cmai11 rtstrictimu apply). U'.'e hflpe to St't' you 101m. 
No other discounts apply. Open some evenings. Atria Salon reserves the right to refuse service to any client whose hair condition is unsuitable. Expires 3/31/99 Offer only good with Amy, Renee. or Ariane 
A'l'RlA. SAi.ON 1.\57 N. Ironwood Driw • So111h Bend, IN 46615 • Td. 219-289-~080 
in first place as the only undefeated fencfir. 
The Nittany Lions fin­ished two points behind first place Columbia after the first day but Penn State will most likely sur­pass Columbia, as Columbia only has one men's epeeist and no women epeeists. 
The Irish trail Penn State by 11 points. The deficit will be very difficult to overcome. especially since the sabre team has been the Irish strength all season. 
"It's going to be diffi­cult," coach Auriol said. "You don't want to get behind that much. We wanted to stay close. I didn't think that Penn State had the best sabre squad but they did what they were supposed to do. It's going to be tough." 
The finals in men's foil and sabre will be held tomorrow morning with the men's epee competi­tion beginning in the after­
noon. If the Irish 
at the elusive 
~a~~~nr:ln~!lebe\~:~ 
tomorrow. "We have to fence 
like contenders," coach Auriol said. ''We did not fence 
likn a team that has a chance to win the championship. \Ve fenced like just another team. \Ve have to be stronger
mentally. Today we got a message. \,,Ye n e •~ cJ t o regro u p 
and each squad has to perform at their lev1~I." 
¦ BASEBALL 
Irish to take cuts at Mountaineers 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Sporrs Editor 
The Notre Dame baseball team, which was chosen as the preseason favorite to win the Big East, opens con­ference play tomorrow afternoon with a double header on the road against West Virginia. 
The Irish and Mountaineers will play the third game of the series on Sunday at 1 p.m. 
"We're going in with a positive out• look," said right-handed pitcher Aaron Heilman. "We're looking to play well and get off to a good start in Big East." 
The Irish, winners of five straight, hold a 15-8 edge in the aH-time series with the Mountaineers, but the two teams have split the last 12 meetings. 
"I think three of the last six games we've played against them have been decided by one run." said Heilman. ''They are a quality team and usually play us tough, so we·re looking to come out and play well as a team." 
Notre Dame is coming off its spring break tournament victory at the fifth annual Irish Baseball Classic in San Antonio, Texas. Heilman earned tour­nament MVP and co-Big East pitcher of the week honors after tossing a com* plete-game victory over Creighton that advanced the Irish to the title game. Heilman had a career-best 11 strike­outs and allowed just three earned runs on six hits. 
"My season is going well so far," said Heilman. "I had a rough outing in the beginning, but I've settled down and am starting to get back in the groove. It helps to have a team behind you that plays good defense and can score runs." 
Left-hander Tim Kalita (1-1, 3.28 
ERA), junior Scott Cavey (1-1 7.17 ERA} 
and Heilman (2-1 3. 28 ERA l are the 
probable starters for this weekend's 
series. 
The Irish bats have been hot lately and the team will look to continue that trend against the Mountaineers. Junior shortstop Brant Ust, last year's Big East player of the year, has picked up where he left off. He's batting .407 and leads the team with 18 HBis. 
"Brant is a great player day in and day out," said Heilman. "He always comes prepared to play and is always in the middle of things for us." 
Center fielder Steve Stanley was named co-Big East freshman of the week while batting .444 (8-for-18) in the lea.doff spot. He had seven runs scored, four stolen bases and drew four walks last week. 
"Steve's been a great asset for us," said Heilman. "He's able to track down balls that most guys can't get to and he's done a great job at the plate as well." 
West Virginia is coming off back-to­back 30-win seasons, but coach Greg Van Zant lost some key players off last year's squad and has 18 new players. 
The Mountaineers are 5-7 on the sea­son, but have won three straight, including last weekend's double header with Toledo. They captured the first contest 2·1 behind solid pitching from senior Louie Ross, who fanned 10 and gave up just one unearned run in the fifth. WVU took the nightcap 9-8 when Eddie Weightman scored on C:raig Boggs' drag bunt single in the bottom of the ninth. 
The Mountaineers scored six runs in the fifth inning to top St. Bonaventure 6-4 on \Vednesday afternoon. 
HIGGINS LABOR RESEARCH CENTER 
College of.Arts and Letters University ofNotre Dame 
THE JOHN JOYCE AWARD on 
''The American Worker'' 
Two awards for the best undergraduate and graduate essay, short story or poetn on "The Anierican Worker",. Appropriate essay include topics as diverse as: philosophical, theological, or historical dis­course on work; innovative labor-management relations schemes; the changing composition ofthe work­force; gender in the workplace; industrial psychology; labor unions and politics; epidemiology studies of occupational health; the treatment ofwork and workers in literature. 
These two awards are made possible by the International Union ofBricklayers and Allied Crafts1nen in honor oftheir President, John Joyce. 
Essays are due to the Higgins Labor Research Center, 445 Flanner Hall, by March 31, 1999. Winners will be announced on April 1 5, 1999. 

For more information, contact Teresa Ghilarducci at 631-6335 or Patrick Sullivan, CSC, at 631-5706 
,,.,. 
t 
f,
i\ 
~ 


I11, ,, 
I 
, 

l j 
I 
:r 
I 1:., 
,, ;,·i 
\·1 
f I 
lI. 
I 
I]," 
I '. 
I I. 
I' 
'' 
'I, 
'l
; .
''i 
I ! 
I 
,1; 
H 
f.
I ... 
l:j
1,, \\\ 
ti_. 
II 
d 
q
I,,, 
ll 
I I 
I : 
' 
I 
{ 
i' ': i 
..--.-•-11111•..-·--••-•s-ll'Jla..a..-..••--•••••-••Rm.. 
page 26 
Notre Dame's quest for victory. Heturning five All-Anrnrica
LaCrosse 
selections from last year's 
NCAA final-four team, the
continued from page 28 
Greyhounds have more df'pth our offPnS('," said Glatz<•I. "And than tlw Irish, with 27 rPturn­our man-up is going to have to ing varsity playPrs. step it up to win." Led by seven returning 
At the attack position. senior starters, the Greyhounds have DussPau will havP lead thP easily handled their opponents offt•nsP if tlw Irish hopP to add this spason. Lovola boasts a 
anotlwr ganw to the win col­stingy d1~fonse coupled vvith an umn. Duss('au. a four-year Pxplosive offonsc that has startPr. has scored 89 carem· outscored its opponents 43-14 goals and has rackc!d up an in three games. The imprPssivc 100 points with 11 Greyhounds proved their abili­total assists this season. ty last week during a 14-5 
Dusseau was pickc.d to the routing of previously top-sm'd­College Lacrosse USA's ed John I lopkins University. Prcseason All-America team In order to upset Loyola, before the start of the season. Notre Dame will have to take 
The Irish defense, led by control of the game early. senior captain David Biddiso~ "Loyola's a real fast-paced and junior goalie Kirk Howell, team," said Owen. "If we can has also stayed tough, provid­slow it down and make Loyola 
ing the squad with a strong play our kind of game we backborw. Shutting down Air should have a strong showing." Force car lier this season bv Saturday's match-up will be allowing only two goals, th~ the ninth meeting between Notre Dame defense has shovvn Notre Dame and Loyola. Loyola that they are a force to reckon holds a distinct edge in the with. First-yfmr starter Howell contest, if history has anything has made· more saves than to do with it. Boasting an 8-0 goals allowed, tallying a total record for the series. Loyola of 36 saves on the season. has proved its dominance in 
"\Ve'rn pretty solid through­the past. Notre Dame will have out," said Glatzel. "\,Ve have a to score mirlv and take control strong core of players that will of the game 0 if it hopes to gain carry us through the game." its first win against the 
Lovola, with a 3-0 record, Greyhounds and upset the top will ·be a formidable stop on seed. 
¦ WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish look to outserve Iowa 
By WES JACOBS 
Sports Writer 
In their first meeting since 1991, the No. 14 Irish women's tennis team will face the Iowa Jlawkeyes Saturday at home. 
Notre Dame will look to build on its 3-0 record versus tlrn Hawkeyes. Iowa enters the dual meet as the 53rd-ranked team in tlw country and is led by freshman Toni Nf\ykova, ranked 97th for singles players. 
\\'hile Irish playPrs aren' t overlooking the llavvkeyes. playing a lower-ranked tPam dons present motivational problems. 
"\Ve feel confident going in, but we obviously can' t takfi anyone for granted," said freshman standout Becky Varnum. "\Ve' ve had a hard week of practice. \Ve need to play every match like it' s a Duke match. If you give anything up, teams can jump all over you, even toams in the 50s." 
Because this will be Notre Dame' s fifth homf~ match of the season, the home crowd should give players plenty of moti­vation. 
"\Ve like to play at home." said Varnum. "You' rn always going to fool better when' you play and practice most oftlln." 
If :\otrc Dame can manage to win Saturdav's match, thev will extend their winning str<'ak again~t Michvcst region opponents to 14. The Irish have \Von 13 consecutive matches against other Midv.·cst teams, a streak that dates back to a loss to Wisconsin in the 1997 NCAA '.\tidwnst Hcgional. 
TIm I r is h Ii ave r o 11 e d through th nir rngional fo(1s. bu iId ing a :15-4 record against other Midwest teams since the '95 SPason, including 28 wins against Big 10 teams. 
As senior two-time All-American, 
.Jennifer llall enters this match as a 
senior two-time All-American. She is 
approaching the Notre Dam,\ record for 
career singles wins after t\-VO vvins during 
spring break to improve to 104-55. She 
stands just three wins behind the 107 sin­
gles matchns \fary Colligan won from 
1 <)82-8(). 
1lall bccanw the first Irish player to 
rPach 100 wins under head coach Jay 
Louderback on Feb. 19, when she beat 
UCLA's Annica Cooper 7-5, 6-3. 
llall will be helped by Michelle Dasso, 

a.--•z•...•---•---••-••••111•J•a111s•..••••--•••-•--·••--=""'•--••a£1'1!1aQl!!a..~s,-..•z•a!!IIID••••••• •1111&
..•. 
The Observer • SPORTS Friday, March 19, I 999 
.. 

ranked 10th nationally. She is 10-4 in 
~MljOd.,complo!•-­
dual singles matches this year at the No. 1 .......name: ........................................................................... For 1 ¢0pY of the QffK:lal: ruin. pieMe stftd a
---(WA...,VA,,,,_
spot for the Irish. Varnum, Marisa may onJI ,_.-).,MTV ATTN, So<"9 
.......address: .............-......................,...................-.......... . 8'Mk'98Clll0go-R\lle>.1515-.,., 24'11 fb!t, -V"'"-NY 1')036 Al"""'
V,1lasco, Kelly Zalinski and Kim Guy will 
-..,. bo NCONOdt,v 12'.00PM tHl on f-,22, 1991l Alpllon0--t>o
be stn!ng back-ups. -bl 12,Q0,11,1 (!IT) on f-19.
1989.~--.,.............
At doubles, Hall and Dasso, ranked 6th .......Phone_:___.............................................. . '91-.01... us.""""­
~ !l-24. Void wt.e~ormtn::ted 
llyilo.-......-,....
nationally. will lead the way. .......1199= ......................._.cable syt.,.__tem_:---· 
--~--and­
U5 _ 
tll_ol_
-to:ll!Y,,_1511.....,,2"11, __NY_ 
-----pul!N. --­

Friday, Marc~1 19, 1999 
The Observer• TODAY page 27 
SLURRED SPEECH 

FOXTROT 

DILBERT 

I 


u 
"
WALL'<. 01:0 "(OU 
!
50 
u
FINI5H THE 
" 
'0 
..."
A.NALY5t5 FOR 
"' 
TOr-'\ORROW? 
~ .. i 
..__. 
aPasta ingredient TA ..,;...+-+---M-1 9 Unyielding H E X A 10 Waggish A L V Sh .
L 11 owiness
0 ..;;;.+""-+-12 Anglo-Saxon aristocrat ~~~!-:'-! 13 Whale finder
A 
----N'""' 21 Alternative to mushrooms __.__.___E-1 22 Where John 
Rolfe married Pocahontas 
---27 Anglo-SaxonD laborers RAS --+--+A-+S,-+,,E"."'1 29 Indemnify KNO ..;.....i.__,1,,M....1..E~N_. 30 Small shot 
DAN SULLIVAN 
BILL AMEND 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Turned on the waterworks 
s Former East German secret police 
10 Hot tub inlets 
14 In charge of 1 s Range feature 16 Half of dieciseis 17 CBS reporter 
Braver 1sYou must remember this 
19 Tartan representation 20 Snake in the grass, literally 23 Take potshots (at) 24 Wren's wing 
25 Let down, say 



•
TE SE 
t1ARClf .22110N. 
26 Scooted 
2a "The Mystery of -Vep" (Charles Ludlam play) 
30 Arm r:nuscle 33 Villains, at times 37 Awarder of 
badges: Abbr. 3&Swaddles 40 Stay flat 41 Mariachi topper 43 Cossack chief 45 Parks on a bus 46Wherethe 
Saemeand Rhone meet 47-HighDam so Big Board's 
Can. equivalent 52 Midsection 56 Flash in the pan, 
literally 59 Needle dropper 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
60 Underway 61 Road-­62 Work units 63"The 
Unbearable Bassington" writer 
64 Attention-getter at sea 65 Untouchables chief 66 More devious 67Symbol of inactivity 
DOWN 
1 Diet site 2 Lake Geneva 
spa 3 Kind of dish 4 Gallivant 5 Sojourn 6 Out of plumb 7 Menotti title role 
Puzzle by Rand H. Burns 
31 Prefix with diametric 32 Picture taker, in combinations 33 Sign of a big crowd 
34 Hackberry's kin 35 Estuary 
36 Hill person: Abbr. 39 Hardly kindly 42 Not in one's 
cups? 44 8-Down, to Sal Mineo 46Poe poem 
47 Quaker? 54 Bell-shaped · flowers
48 Cathedral topper 
55 Low poker pair 49 Waiting area, 57 Schools of
with "the" whales
51 Unsentimental 53 Sun Valley 58 "... !ike-­locale not!" 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95ft per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available forthe best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Diana Ross, James Caan, Martin Short, Steven Tyler, Leeza Gibbons, Leonard Nimoy, Tennessee Williams, Joseph Campbell, Sandra Day O'Con-. nor, Erica Jong, Marcus Allen 
Happy Birthday: You will have trouble say:ng no this year. You must learn to focus on the most important projects and forget about trying to please everyone else. Do what you do best and don't try to take on the world. You will make major gains if you are precise in your actions and clever with the knowledge you have acquired. Don't be afraid to accept help from others. Your numbers: 2, 13, 27, 32, 38, 45 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't let your argumentative mood lead to temper tantrums. You'll find yourself all alone if you try to push your beliefs and attitudes on others. It's time you took a look at yourself. Check out your motives. 00 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Talk can lead to trouble if you aren't com­pletely honest. Don't lead people on or try to cover up for someone who has been deceptive or underhanded with others. Someone may be using you.0000 • 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Voice your opinions and you'!! be surprised at how many followers you have. Yo,,rr ifltellPctual know-how will 
· ·' !z y~:• t0 st;irt the ball rolling. ·rou'il be a<lmired for your ic,sigh: and fortitude. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): If you takP on too much, you'll find yourself in a martyr's position. Don't let your family push you into doing things you really don't want any part of. 
000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Get out and cut loose. You'll have some cre­ative ideas ·that you can put to the test 
EUGENIA LAST 
by exposing them to your peers. Lady Luck is in your corner. Put some effort into self-improvement. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't be so nosy. You'll get stuck taking on other people's responsibilities if you 
.
try to tell them how to do things. You are better off spending some time with the one you love. 0000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Use your intuitive insight to help you make all the right choices. Sudden changes will tum out to be much bet­ter than you first thought possible. Go with the flow, and you won't be sony 
00 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Put in some extra time at work. You'll be surprised at how much you can get done when no one is around. Your dedication will win points and put you into a position leading to advancement. 00000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): It's time to join in and get active. Sports events or energetic activities with children will be rewarding. Opportunities to travel should be taken advantage of. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Put your efforts into home-improve­ment projects. You can raise the value of your home if you're willing to spend a little cash Real estate deals will be prosperous and plentiful. 000 
AvUARIUS (J.;.n. 20 fei,._;~)· Yo" nt:.!.:l :o g':.'t out ,,.., _fr, 'flt'nci,,. · · partnerships can be formed if you are receptive to the advances being made. Explore new avenues. You'll be sur· prised hy the possibiJiJ;e~ O,~ 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You need to keep busy. Frustrations will surface if you've overspent, leaving yourself short for the weekend. Try to focus on interesting new ways to make a little extra cash. 00000 
..;¦:·OFINTERE$1' 

·.• 'Q)e··· tvariovicCI~!~it;i~ for;~uipean•ftudies-preserits::!·
J;Q~\13()yer-of th~ o,iversity of.Chicaio,. wbotwill· give· b.i~;iect11r? "Cafi!qlics•.• cllri~!ians and .. the ChaUenge".pfDeiitocracy: Tbe 'Heritage ofthe Nineteenth Century" 
· to~~yat 4,3(>: p.rn~\jt1Jlje,~esbufglt Center .Auditorium . ·... 1'~el\ledie.~al.l1ui~tute ~.,~argart}t ·Mullet of The Que~n·~··univ~I'sitrtQf.B(3U'~~t willgive a lecture "Six texts inse~rch oft~t\ijfirsbip; th~fU:tUr~ ofByzantine Ht­flra.ture •• ouJu~s~ijy,isMa:rcb23, a(5 p.m... in the Midieval Institµte Rt)a<li.rig rooml7l~ Hesburgh Library. 
WE WANT YOU!!! 
Be all that you can be: Join The Observer Sports Department 





..... 

Politics and hoops 
,, 
Leaving Los Vegas? 
¦ Anthony Bianco's column 
¦ Lakers' forward Dennis Rodman 

explores whether unfair pol­
will face a fine when he returns 
itics may have harmed the 
from his leave from the team. 
women's basketball's team. 
p.23
p.21 
0 
THE 
page 28 Friday, March I9. 1999
BSERVER 

,, 
1; 
I·; 
',,, ! I 
1~ ' 
~1
.~ 
I' ' 
!I 
I 
lt ,,, I • 
I 
l;: 

f ! 
j
r 
f:j 
J 
\,\' 
') ,{ 


i1 
l 
l 

¦ Ft:NCING 
Fencers face heartbreak in Waltham 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Associate Sports Editor 
WALTHAM, i\-fass. 
On the day after St. Patrick's Day, the luck of the Irish ran out for the Notre Dame fencing team as thP-y stumbled to sixth place after one day of competi­tion at the NCAA champi­onships in Waltham, Mass. 
"We fenced with fear today," head coach Yves Auriol said about the first day of competi­tion. "We dropped bouts we shouldn't have." 
With foil captain Stephane Auriol and sabre captain Luke La Valle posting only 4-11 and 6-8 records, respectively, the Irish find themselves trailing defending champion Penn State by 11 points. LaValle's struggles are particularly sur­prising, as he is the defending national champion in sabre. 
Junior Chas Hayes. fencing in his first NCAA champi­onship, finished the first four rounds of competition with a respectable 6-8 record. 
The bright spot on the day for the Irish was the perfor­mance of freshman Gabor Szelle. Szelle went 11-3 on the day and currently stands in fourth place with three rounds of sabre competition remain­ing. 
Szelle's only losses came against Keeth Smart of St. John's, a 1998 second team All-American, who finished the day in first place, Michael Takagi, a second team All­American. of Penn State and Jakub Krochmalski of Wayne State. 
In the first bout of the day, Szelle faced Lavalle in what 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum 
Senior foil captain Stephane Auriol's struggles at the NCAA championships continued Thursday as he fin­
see FENCING/ page 25
ished the day with a 4-11 record. 
¦ MEN'S LACROSSE 
. 
Laxers to host top-ranked Greyhounds 
By KERRY SMITH Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's lacrosse team looks to extend its three­game winning streak when it travels to Maryland to take on the Loyola Greyhounds this weekend. 
The 17th-ranked Irish, with a record of 3-1, will need a strong performance both offensively and defensively in order to upset the top-ranked Greyhounds: 
"The team feels prepared," said sophomore attack player Tom Glatzel. "It's not too often that you get to play a No. 1 team. We've been going ovt~r what Loyola does and preparing our strategy for the game in order to get ready." 
Glatzel, who earned Great Western Lacrosse League Player of the Weck honors last week, leads the Irish in scoring with 
SPORTS 
ATA 
GLANCE 
eight goals this season. 
Glatzel will be joined offensive­ly by starters David Ulrich. Tom Ulrich, Steve Bishko. Brad Owen and captain Chris Dusseau. 
The team is looking forward to showcasing their ability to com­pete with top-ranked teams this weekend. 
"Playing Loyola is a golden opportunity," said senior Owen. "We've got nothing to lose because we're not expected to win. So we're just going to go out there and prove that we can play with them." 
The Irish have put together an impressive offense so far this season, outscoring their oppo­nents 55-34 in four games. Averaging almost 14 goals a game,·the Irish will need to capi­talize on all offensive opportuni~ tics in order to beat Loyola. 
"\Ve're going to concentrate on 
see LACROSSE/ page 25 

The Observer/Jeff Hsu 
Irish midfielder Kevin Higgins moves past Ohio State defenders in a recent game. Notre Dame takes on Loyola tomorrow. 
at Blue-Gray National Men's LaCrosse Classic at Loyola
ff) 
Today-Sunday ~ Saturday, 12 p.m. Softball
~-vs. Iowa·....._ v at Purdue
Saturday, 11 a.m . 
9t 
Tuesday, 2 p.m. 
¦ WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Irish 
splash to 23rd at .. NCAAs 
By WES RICHARDSON Sports Writer 
The No. 21 Notre Dame 
women's swimming team 
stands in 23rd place with 12 
points after the first day of 
the NCAA championships in 
Athens. Ga. 
The Irish 400-mcter medley 
relay team of Kelly Ilecking. 
Brittany KlinP. Liz Barger. 
and Nixon qualified 11th in 
the preliminary snssion. 
Three-time All-American 
Shannon Suddarth replaced 
Kline for the breaststroke leg 
in the finals, and the team 
held onto an 11th-place fin­
ish. earning 12 points for the 
1rish. 
Sophomore Carrie Nixon scored the only point earned by the Irish in an individual ·event. She placed 16th yes­terday in the 50-yard freestyle in a time of 23.25 seconds. lier preliminary time of 22.88 qualified her for 13th place, tied with Michigan's Jennie Eberwein 
and Nevada's Jia Lin Sun. 
Olympic champion 
Catherine Fox of Stanford 
vvon the 50-metcr freestyle in 
a pool rncord time of 22.13. 
She and fc 11 ow Olympian 
Misty Hyman joined tf~am­
matcs Shelly Hipple and Elin 
Austevoll to win the 400 
medley relay. Their time of 
3:33.75 broke the American, 
U.S. Open, and pool records, and they narrowly missed their own NCAA and nrnet records. 
TIH~ 200-m n te r frees ty If\ 
relay team of Kelly llecking, 
Nixon. Kristen Van Saun and 
Brittany Kline harely missed 
making finals and scoring 
points. Their time of 1:35.28 
was good for 17th place. 
Freshman Heather 
Mattingly, the first diver to 
represent Notre Dame at the 
NCAA championships, fin­
ished the one-meter diving in 
18th µlac,~. also just missing 
a chance to score points. 
Immediately after compet­
ing in the 200 freestyle relay, 
Van Saun swam a disappoint­
ing 4:54.5<J' in the 500 
freestyle, dropping 23 places 
from her entry time and fin­
ishing 37th. 
The meet continues today 
and Saturday, with prelimi­
naries beginning at 11 a.m. 
and finals at 7 p.m. each day. 
The top 16 finishers in the 
preliminaries of each event 
return to score points in the 
finals. 
The Irish begin today's 
see SWIMMING/ page 22 

Women's Swimming at NCAA Championships Today-Saturday 
Saine Mary's Tennis vs. Defiance College Saturday, 1 p.m. 
_J 








