

Blue takes Gold 
Monday
¦ See how the Irish fared in this weekend's intra­

¦ Scene preview.~ this summer's pocential 
squad game.

blockbusters, including the new Star Wars 
APRIL 26, 
prequel. 
Scene• 12-13 
See Insert 

1999 
THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 130 WWW. N D.EDU/-OBSERVER 




Power fails, students flood quads 
By HNN PRESSLY 
A,.,1sr:mr Ntw~ blimr 
l·fanws lit tlin nighl sky ovnr Not.r(• llamP aft.Pr a South llPtH! powPr out.agP thr1'w thn 1·a111pus inlo d111os al approxi­mat<'l,V I a.m. today. 
1\r('ording tu AmPrican 1·.l!•rl riral l'owPr, l111• I1u la!,((\ af'l'Pt"l!'d approximall'ly 2,000 n1slo11H•rs on th1• north sido ol' South B1•1ul. which includes llw Notn· Damn campus. Saint Mn ry's was rnportedly not afft•1·Lnd. 
"\\Ip don't havP 1-rPws arDund thP doc·k," saicl an 1\l·:I' spok«'swonmn. "IW11 had! lo mil )H'ophi at 11011w and get t!J,,m Olll of !Jl'fl.,, 
Tiu• 011lag,•, wilkh lastl'd 11-ss than an hour, was totwlwd off wlwn an lndia11a­Mid1iga11 pow1•r stqiply li1111 was partially st'VPrnd, ac·cord­illl-( lo n rPprPsPntativP at lhti Noln\ llanw pow1•r plant. 
1•:vPI')' n•sid<'IH'P hall <)xc1ipl ~Id ;li1111 rt•portedly lost )lOWl'l', as did most mm pus lrnilclings. 
l-'ir1• alarms in numt'rous n•sidc•nn• halls wPrP also S<'l 
off. 
!'own was rnstort1d to cam­J!ll S al approximately I :40 
a. Ill. 
/,r111rr1 Pete/fl' contrihur.ed to this report. 

by TIM LOGAN 
News Editor 
Packs of students roamed tlrn quads during tlrn pownr outagn narly this morning, drinking and setting honfirns campus­wirle. 
Campus security of'lkials apprehended two students and threatened furtlrnr arrests and disciplinary action in attmnpts to dis­perse the groups. 
Six firns were s1it. according to University officials, including a 12­foot blaze in front of Fisher llall and a firo al 
Main r.irdc that caught on a tree. before Notre Dame Fire Department person­nel douscd the !lames. 
Lofts, couches, toilet paper and hollies of' liquor were thrown into rims as crowds .or students cheered. Crowd estimates range from 500 to 1,000. 
Some campus security officers watched from afar for injuries while othors joined fire departnrnnt officials in putting out fires. 
No one was roported hurt. although a Cavanaugh resident was ill 
immodiately lll'fort' tlw blackout and an ambu­lanc11 was s11m111011Pd for hnr. 
A ronl'rontation nnarly dnvnlopml on North ()uacl w lw n o n I' st ud1n1 t was citnd for minor in con­sumption of alcohol and placnd i11 a campus socuri­Ly squad car. Studtlnts gath<>rnd around tlw v1d1i­d1i and ynll<id at Lilt' oflkt•r as Im took t.lw student's information. 
As a sPcond ofTi('nr brought anotlwr stucl!rnt into tlw car, tl11• crowd closed in on tlw vnhirln. which turrrnd 011 its lights and drovn off llrn quad. 
Tim idm1tilication of stu­dents taken in by Socurily will Im given to Urn OffkP of H.nsidnncn l.if'o f'or disci­plinary action. 
South BPncl lPIPvision station WNDU rPportndly purchasocl a studont's honrn video of the distur­bancP f'or $2,000. Assistant vice president for Residence Lifn Bill Kirk said any students idPnti­fied from the tape could also hn disciplined. 
University orlicials wnrn disappointed by tlw 
see POWER/ page 6 

Key Bank waives monthly charge 
By rlNN PRESSLY Micah Murphy. "Tbn Student Assisr,11,r New, Ftlitor Senate does have some clout around hero. When charged 
Kev Bank officials annou11cml with somothing to do, some­,,,ridiiy lhat t.lrny havo agrPPd to thin!{ good docs corrrn out of waivn the planned monthly iL" sorvic1i foo for all acrounLs at Though the fee has been the Notrn Dame branch. culmi­implemented nationwide, all naling months ol' dforls on accounts opened at the lwhalf of' sl11d1ml govcmmmnt. LaFortunc Student Center 
"I think it's outstanding," said student hody prr,sident see BANK I page 6 
By TIM LOGAN 
News F<.!iror 
Contrary to published rnports, thtl NCAA's decision to hold a hearing on possible violations involving former football booster Kim Dunbar does not represent a change in the status of the inv«'stigation, said Dennis Moore, director of Public Hclations, Sunday. 
Thi~ NCAA Committee on Infractions sent University president Father Edward Malloy a let­ter of inquiry last week, ordering Notre Dame to appear heforc a hearing to determine whether its alleged violations in the case were major or secondary. Another NCAA committee, the Committee on Enforcement, had recommended the· violations be considnrecl secondary, but thn infractions conunilten, which dfltcrminos sanc­tions of NCAA rrnimbnr schools. decided to invns­tigate the matter itself. 
"We made a preliminary reviow and did not bolievc the violations wmn secondary, so we told the enforcem1mt staff to go ahead as if' they wert• major." David Swank. chairman of Urn Committee on Infractions. told the Chicago Sun­Times Thursday. "The oflicial lcttm· of inquiry is sent because of' the bnlicf that there am possibln major infractions." 
Moore emphasized that, while the 11nforcmnent staffers had made tlrnir recommendation, thnm 
see DUNBAR / page 4 
Monday, April 26, 1999
page 2 The Observer• INSIDE 
... 
¦ INSIDE COLUMN 
Something is Wrong 
The explosive scene that erupted through­out campus early this morning was indeed exciting, but it was also one of the most dis­turbing displays of chilling immaturity I've 
ever serm. 
When l stepped outside South Dining Hall to hP:lp report the story, my eyes met utter chaos. Swelling mobs of people were con­gregating in droves en route to North Quad. The scary part is . . . no one knew toward what lhey 

were flocking.  Colleen Gaughen  
Like sheep without a  ViewpoiDt Fdiror  
shephei·d, these stu­ 

dents blindlv followed a leader that didn't 
exist. With ~aving flashlights that cast an 
eerie glow over the darkened campus. they 
shouted and jumped -with absolutely no 
idea why. 
Once on North Quad, a scene reminiscent of "Lord of the Flies" ensued during which one Zahm resident asked the simple ques­tion. "Why are you outside?" and told them to go home and back to bed. The student response'? To follow the flames. The crowd began chanting, "Let's get naked," and some even started stripping down. 
But the real madness was ignited on the lawns of South Quad. Couches, lofts, bras, Michigan t-shirts -anything and everything was thrown with juvenile glee into the esca­lating bonfires. During a twisted worship of liberation from stress. these students offi­cially lost it. Young men and women exposed themselves, and the intensity of the flames was reflected in the eyes and echoed in the cries of the chanting mobs. 
I am thoroughly embarrassed to be a part of this student body. The way the crowds ­both instigated and reacted to the situation and the complete disrespect with which they taunted firemen with mock warnings of backdraft and urgings to hose them down was nothing less than appalling. 
The real dangers of backdraft are nothing to mock, mff is the horrifying reality of hos­ing down crowds that took place during the civil rights movements. It's not funny. and it's not cool. Are people so self-absorbed that they think nothing of the way their words and actions affect others? Someone could have been hurt. Someone could have l;Jeen accidentally thrust into the flames. Someone could have even died. 
I was frightened out there. Not just of the dangers of the blaze, but of the absolute absurdity of it all. It was truly insane. What force compelled these people out of their beds and into the madness? Why are stu­dents so easily swayed to go where everyone else is going and to do what everyone else is doing? And why was the overwhelming majority of' the mobs male? 
Yes, we are under a lot of stress. Yes, we are sexually frustrated. And yes, we have a right to express ourselves freely. But when the expression of frustration and stress spins out of control and endangers lives, something is wrong. When outraged mobs convene with absolutely no idea why, some­thing is wrong. When bonfires erupt at ran­dom and firemen are mocked with scorn. something is wrong. When this is how peo­ple react when the power goes out, some­thing is wrong. And when people think that all this chaos is okay, something is definitely wrong. 
Very wrong. 
The views expressed in the inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
¦ TOOAY'S STAFF  
News  Scene  
Finn Pre,sley  Julie Hamilton  
Maureen Smithe  Graphics  
Kyle Andrew,  Scott Hardy  
Sports  Production  
Kati Miller  Kathleen Lopez  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Meghan Hurlty  Monica Gari.a  

Tl1e Observer (USPS 599 Z-4000) i, publi,hed Monday through Friday e.xccpt during exam .md v~ution periods.. The Observer i.s .a member of rhe AsM1ciarcd Prcsi.. AU rcproducrion righrs are rtserved. 

utside the Dome 
Compiled from LJ.Wire reports 
Jackson delivers speech, critcizes Mississippi legislators 
MISSISSIPPI STATE, Miss. 
Rev. Jesse Jackson brought his mes­sage of racial healing. citizen partic­ipation and sharod economic security to an overflowing crowd Wednesday as part ol' his 22-stop Southern Crusade through Mississippi. 
"I was wondering when I would get an invitation to come back here and­speak," Jackson said while beginning his hour-long speech. 
Jackson, the founder and chief exec­utive officer of the Rainbow/PUSH Coalition, delivered a message of hope to the receptive and participative crowd. 
"We must keep hope alive," Jackson said. "You arc Lhe heart and soul of a mlw Mississippi." 
In the conversational-yet-motiva­tional style that has become his trade­mark over the years, Jackson told Mississippfans· to work toward improving the current condition of 
Mississippi State 
University 
education, health care and wages in the state. 
"In the new South, we must move beyond slavery and legal segregation and focus on health care, education, wages, income and growth," Jackson said. 
Jackson blasted Mississippi legisla­tors who, according to him, put more emphasis on the prison system than the current standards of living and the current state of education in Mississippi. 
"We have prisoners running compa­nies," Jackson said, referring to sever­al industries in Mississippi that employ prison Labor to cut down on costs. 
"People on the outside can't do those jobs for pay, yet we let prisoners do them for free." 
Jackson also commented on improvements that need to be made in Mississippi's educational system. Jackson emphasized the fact that. in the United States, Mississippi is ranked 50th in education and 48th in teachers' pay, with a median salary of $13,000. Once again, Jackson attrib­uted some of the problems with edu­cation to pour representation in the government. 
"[Sen.] Trent Lott cut off money for Mississippi education, yet he support­ed the tobacco companies," Jackson said. "We need to make our political leaders ar:r:ountable to real nmids. If we reject educating youth on the front side, we jail them later." 
¦ STAN.FORD UNlVEnS!TY Feds investigate diplomat's speech 
STANFORD, Calif. 
He was the last Western diplomat to meet and warn Yugoslavian President Slobodan Milosovic of the imminent NATO cruise missiles raid, but Richard Holbrooke had no one to warn him of the ethical investigation waiting for him in Washington. Holbrooke is under investigation for whether he improperly accepted thousands of dollars for making speeches about the Balkans when he was a special envoy to the region. The lirst of these speeches was at Stanford dur­ing fall quarter. This investigation may jeopardize Holbrooke's nomination as the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations. In November, soon after his return from Yugoslavia, Holbrooke was paid $16,000 for delivering a speech on the ongoing Kosovo negotiations. The question for State Department inspector general Jacquelyn Williams­Bridgers is whether Holbrooke's acceptance of such speak­ing fees violated federal ethics rules. 
¦ UNIVERSITY OF WlSCONSIN Student records could go public 
MADISON, Wis. 
Possible changes being considered to UW-Madison stu­
dent records policies could allow parents additional access 
to their children's records -including information about 
drinking penalties and sexual misconduct. Members of the 
UW Student Policies and Non-Academic Programs 
Committee held a public hearing Thursday to discuss possi­
ble changes in student record policies. The committee can 
decide to either make no change in university policy ­
which currently allows access to almost no student informa­
tion -or make limited changes to the policy. permitting the 
notification of parents under certain circumstances. 
Campuses across the nation are faced with similar decisions. 
A bi-partisan act in Congress recently amended the Family 
Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974, permitting 
schools to make public the final results of disciplinary 
action. 
¦ YALE UNIVERSITY Newspaper report angers Ivy League 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. 
Admissions otlicers are tearing their hair out after reading a Wall Street Journal article last wer.k that suggested Ivy League admissions officers favor certain extracurricular activities. "This is not how Dartmouth runs its admissions process," Dartmouth dean of Admissions Carl Furstenberg said. "We don't even keep track of these statistics." Thr. Wall Street Journal article compiled statistics from Swarthmore, the University of Pennsylvania and Georgetown to argue that "across the board, being a student leader, a team captain. or a publication editor is a huge plus" when applying to an Ivy League school. The report cited statistics like 39 porcent of Eagle Scouts and 59 percent of National Fine Arts winners were accepted to Penn. But Swarthmore and Georgetown are not in the Ivy League. And admissions officers said debate team captains from Penn's class of 2002 wero accepted at a 46 percent rate. 
¦ UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA Talks may lead to sit-in compromise 
TUCSON. Ariz. 
After a 34-hour sit-in, ragged student activists Thursday night emerged from a negotiation with University of Arizona president Peter Likins with the possibility of a compromise. Likins unexpectedly returned to the University of' Arizona president's ollice at about 10 p.m. and laid the groundwork for a consensus with the anti-sweatshop protesters. Likins pledged to deliver a document to members of the UA's Students Against Sweatshops chapter today at 6:30 a.m. The statement is expected to include a deadline for university withdrawal from the Fair Labor Association if it fails to fullill the activists' demands. Confronted with the activists' sit-in mantra "we will not negotiate," Likins said he previously believed protesters would not be receptive to any compro­mise. 'Tm now invited, and I accept that invitation," he said. Student activists, however, rosumed hollering their original demands for greater human rights protection of workers. 
¦ LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
H L 
Monday ~70 41 Tuesday c£::.:1 70 46 Wednesday~ 67 48 Thursday ~.. 65 45 Friday ~66 45 
Q,Q,Q_4Q.Q. ~ u 
Showers T~storms Rain Flurries SrtoW ,Ce Sunny Pf. c,oUdy Cloud~-· Via AS$OCialfJd Press Graph1csNst 

© 1999 AccuWeather, Inc.  COLO  WARM STATIONARY  
Atlanta 74 62 Baltimore 74 47 Boston 70 49 Chicago 68 48 Houston 83 67  las Vegas 84 Memphis 80 Milwaukee 58 New York 70 Philadelphia 75  60 62 43 49 48  Portland 56 40 San Francisco 61 48 St. Louis 71 58 Tampa 88 68 Wash. DC 75 49  

¦ NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Monday, Apr. 26. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
·----·--­
Monday, April 26, 1999 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
·-~------------------------­
Conference addresses Ex Corde Ecclesiae ramifications 
implnmentation draf'l. local bishops would have grnator decision-making authority ov11r Catholic collngPs and uni­v,i rsities in their dioceses, and. on account of this, a judge could rule a school incligiblo. 
Timm is no reason to br.lievn this wouId happm1. C;affnny said. Ile argiwd I.hat the s1iparation of' church and staln set out bv l'rnsident .James Madison in tlw Bill t;f Hights prPvents tlw govtm1­11mnt from nxcrdsing loo much power ovN l'f\ligious institutions. 
"'.Vladison wants tlw people to bn Ihm, lw wants thn governrnnnt to butl ouL rte 

Join us in a prayer of"' larrient for the 

-W-ednesday 7:30pm 
@ 
the -W-ar .Memorial (stonehenge) 
rain kx:ation: K.eenan/Stanf"ord Chapel 
IIJ lnte~~­
(tMPUS 
m:~h• p1 if;,\yer
MINISTRY 
wants a government hobbled with ordinances, Gaffney said. respect for mligion,'' Gaffney said. "It's Tho implnmontalion proposal has one central basic idea of non-pownr." benn criti.cimd by educators, including 
Gaffney maintai1rnd that if the govr1rn-UniV(!rsily president Fat!wr Edward mcmt wns lo dm1y l'unding, it would sin-'.'vlalloy, who considers it a potnntial gle out religious institutions in a manner thr1iat to acadomic frnedom and institu­contrary to tho spirit of this non-power tional autonomy. Tim quostion of' fndnral While he oxprnsscd confidence that the funding has also h(:r,n addrm,snd by crit-Suprcme Court would not rulr against ics, but not lo the same (1xtnnt lrn('.aUs(i funding of Catholic universities, thn pro-tile ramifications or Ex Corde in this fossor acknowledged that them could b11 area ani less rfoar. slate-level decisions that might have an Debate on the implnnwntalion has nlfor.t. Gaffnny pointed to prec(1dnnt-sct-incrnmrnd since Nov(1111lwr l 1)1J8, when a ting cases in Nmv York, South Carolina, subcommittee of' tlrn National Maryland and at the f'ederal lnv1d. Conf(irnncc of Catholic Bishops {NCCBI 
lie also said lhat government funding prescnt<1d it for discussion. Tlw NCCB f'or religious colleges and uniV(!rsiLins is may vote on this proposal in NovPmbnr pcrl'ectly acceptable as a "broa<l bennl1-aft1H· tlw suhcommitLNl considnrs fond­ciary class" extending hnyoncl the back l'rom other bishops. Prlucatnrs and Church whicli oversees the institution. a range o!' conc1ffned partim;. 
"If thn legislation is crafted so lhat it's Tlrnso groups must SPlld l'oNlback to available to nvnryonc ... thnn it's not a tlrn subcommitlrw hy May l. Tlw night problnm." ho snit!. "Mayhti wn'll win if prnsenll!rs at Saturday's c1H11'1\rn11cc an! wo kcop going in the direction of a sending lhnir papers l.o tlw subcommit­broad bmrnliciary class.'' t{1e. 
Universities must avoid lrntoming The all-day confornncn. which hrought "p,irvasively sl'ctarian" 'if' the'1\1)W ordi~"• pr<lfossors of' canon and constitutional nances am implemented, he said, other-law from rnligious institutions nation-wise tlrnir fl-dnral funding could hn widn, studind the legal dil'l'icultins <'lldangnred. accompanying Fx Corde i111plP111Pntatio11 
There is virtually no threat lo the tax-from a number ol' angles. It was spon­nxcm pt. status or accrnditation of sorod by Urn Notrn Da11w Law School Catholic univnrsitins under lhe propos<•d and lwld in t!w Law School Courtroom. 

Bless this house 
The Observer/Job Turner 
Director of Campus Ministry Father Dick Warner (center) and Blue Casey (left) bless Casey's new home a! a ceremony Sunday, April 18. The home was built by the Notre Dame chapter of Habitat for Humanity, which raised $40,000 for the project and has been working on it since the start of the academic year. This was the chap­ter's fifth house in the South Bend area. 
¦ SECURITY BEAT 
Monday, Aprll 19 
By TIM LOGAN 
New, Editor 
hidc•ral full(lin~ for Catholic uniwrsi­liPs is 1101 likf'ly to lw 11f'1'1\rtml by impl1•­IIH'lllaLion of l·:x Corcl,i Ecch1siun, Popn John Paul ll's 1'190 apostolic constitu­tion on Catholic hil,{hnr (•ducaLion, said l:dward c;,.tT,wy. proJ'l'ssor of' law at Valparaiso al a cont'PrPIH'I? Saturday. 
Tlwrt• had lwnn sonH' c.ont'.l'l'Tl that Calholit: schools would losn th1iir nligibil­ily to ri•1·(•iw l'i•dPral funding if tlw pro­posal is imph\llW!llPcl because tlwy could lln s111111 as "loo rdigious." Undl'r Uw 
1:07 a.m. Security apprehended a suspicious person in the D2 park­ing lot. The suspect was identified, issued a no trespass warning let­
ter, and released to his father. 
2 p.m. A Sorin Hall resident reported the theft of his laptop computer 
Homes for Rent 

from adesk drawer In an unlocked study room in Sorin Hall. 
8:59 p.m. An O'Neill resident was transported to St. Joseph Medical 
• Domus Properties has two, five, six 
Center for treatment of a sports Injury. 
9:19 p.m. Security transported a Morrissey Hall resident to the
and nine bedroom student housing 
University Health Center for treatment of a sports injury. 
available 
Tuesday, April 20 
• Student neighborhoods close to ·t~5~ p.m. A Stanford Hall resident reported the theft of his unlocked bike from a bike rack atDeBartolo Hall. 
campus 
1:24 p.m. A visitor reported his vehicle was broken into while parked in the C1 parking lot. The case is being investigated further. 
• Security systems provided 
2 p.m. Security discovered a vehicle which was broken into while 
parked in the C1 parking lot. The case is being investigated further. 
• Well maintained homes 
9:58 p.m. An O'Neill Hall resident reported the theft of his unlocked 
bike near the practice field. The victim later recovered his bike out­
sid~ of Nleuwland Science. 
• Maintenance staff on call 
Wednesday, April 21 
12:15 p.m. A visitor reported the theft of his unlqcked bike from a
Available for the 1999/2000 school year 
unsecured fenced area outside the Administration Building. 
2:10 p.m. Security apprehended two people in the North Quad area
Contact Kramer (219) 276-7020 or 
who were a.s~ing people for money. They were identified, issued 
non-contractual interest forms, and escorted off campus. 
(219) 674-2571 or (219) 233-4509 
''4~10 p;m. ADIiion Hall resident reported the theft of his unlocked bike from outside Dillon Hall. 
-.. ---· ­
page 4 The Ohserver. CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April 26, 1999 
Dunbar 
continued from page 1 
was always the possibility that the Infractions Commit.toe could investigate the matter. 
''If tho Committee on Infractions had simply accepted the enforcement committee's recommendations, there wouldn't be a hearing," he said. "The fact that they arc holding a hearing shows that they want to look at it Ihemselves." 
The decision to hold a hear­ing, against the recommenda­tion of the lnl'ractions Committee, does not retlect any predisposition that Notre Dame will be sanctioned, according to Moore. 
"The fact that they arr, having a hearing has no bearing on how it's going to come out," he said, noting that there will be no now investigation of poten­tial violations. 
Secondary violations usually carry a minor penalty, ranging from probation without penal­ties to a minor loss of scholar­ships. A major violation could entail a loss of scholarships or television contracts, and possi­bly restrictions on recruiting and post-season play. The eligi­bility·of current players is not an issue. 
No date has been set for the hearing, but Notre Dame has 90 days to respond to the letter. and the hearing will not be held before then. Officials from the Athletic Department and the office of the University's General Counsel will likely rep­resent Notre Dame at the hear­ing, Moore said, although no specific individuals have been named yet. 
This is the first time Notre Dame has received an official letter of inquiry. The University reported the case to the NCAA in March 1998. and the Committee on Enforcement has been investigating it since. 
Moore expressed optimism that the Committee on [nfractions would make the same decision as the Committee on Enforcement and, after the hMring, rule that the violations were secondary in nature. 
"Our hope is that, once they take the time to look at it that the enforcement committee did, then they'H reach the same con­clusion," he said. 
The investigation has not been disrupting the football teams' spring practice, said head coach Bob Davie after the Blue-Gold scrimmage Saturday, although it is a cause of some concern among the coaching staff. 
"You're always concerned 

~..c'I~ 
The Real Enchilada. 
,..., ... 
IN TOWN FOR THE SUMMER? 
NE H? 

SERVERS 
HOSTS 
SUPPORT STAFF 
FULL/PART TIME 
DON PABLO'S 4160 GRAPE ROAD 
254-9395 
because it's a serious matter Dominiack Mechanical Inc. of her sister and live former Notre anytime you're dealing with the South Bend. Some of tt_iis money Dame football players in an NCAA, anytime there's possible was used to pay for jewelry, attempt to recover some~ of his infractions," he said. "Jt's not gifts and trips for up to a dozen company's losses from the something I put a whole lot of Irish football players. She had embezzlement. The suit against thought into because it's out of close relationships with a num­the players -Edison. Lei> my hands, but I do realize the ber of former football players, Becton, Hay Zellars, Derrick significance of it." and has a child wilh former Mayes and Kinnon Tatum -is · Dunbar is currently serving a safety Jarvis Edison. still pending. four-year prison term for Jerry Dominiack, Dunbar's embezzling more than $1.4 mil­former employer, filed suit Mike Connolly contributed to lion from her former employer, against Dunbar, her mother, this report. 
The University ofNotre Dame'.rr; 
The John J. Reilly Center for 
Science, Technology and Values 
is pleased to announce that lhe following students have been selected as the 
John J. Reilly Scholar 
. 
Ill 
The Five Year Double Degree Program 
in Arts and Letters/Engineering 
Class of 1999 
Margaret Christensen Chad Green 

Classes are starting now! 
Call today to reserve your seat. Here for the summer? So is Kaplan! We can prepare you for the August test! Classes start May 24th and June t5th 

For tin1e and location of meeting, call: 1-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C
~ 
Int eacter 
Sr.Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C. 
1-800-KAP-TEST ~ 
,;,. 
www.kaplan.com 
·MCAT is a registered trademark of the Association o! Amencan Medical Colleges. 
AII Meetings are private and confidentiaI. 
60 YEARS OF BUILDING FUTURES. ONE SUCCESS STORY AT A TIME. 




COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRF SERVICES page 5 
:~;.:~; ~,·&7 
~wl_\}~.~~ 
~. 
Monday, April 26, I 999 

Jet wrongly announces crash 
LONDON 
l'assPng,•rs 011 a l.ondo11-bound British .,\irways jPI wrrP mistakPnly told that tfw pla111• was about to rrash into llw sPa, tlin Hirli1w said Sunday. Tlw r1•1:orc!Pd nwssagn was inadvPr\1•11tly playPd aboard Uw Bo!'ing 747 thn•1• hours al'tt>r it took off f'ron1 San 1:rn 11risi-o on Friday night, said British /\irways spokPswoman I.aura lkvnrn. Tlw pla1w la11d1•<1 safply al l.011do11·s lll'athrow i\irporl 011 Saturday. Tlw I0-1 :i sPcond a111101111rP!lll'lll a<hisPd passP11~1-rs that the plilll<' was about to go down in wall'r and told tlH•m what pn•rautions to tak<•. llnv,in•, said. !·light 1TPW i11111wdi,lt1•ly rP1:og11iznd tllf• 1•rr·11r and triNI lo 1·alm PVPryorw down, sll,· said. "S1!v1•ral pass,•ng1•rs WPl'C clis­u·,•ssPd, and our rrPw 1·al11•d for t.lw assis­ta 11r!' of a do1·tor who was on hoard." lkVl'J"I' Siticl. 
Primakov regrets taking job 
MOSCOW 
Hussian l'rirnn MinistPr Y1ivg,rny l'ri111akov. who has s1wnt murh of his term f'1•11tli11g off political nnemies and wrestling with H moribund rconomy, said Sunday lw l'rl'qt11•11Lly n•grPts laking the job. Soon af'tcir his appoinlnwnt in S<\ptemlrnr, Prirnakov was nff'Prtivc-ly leading the country while l'rnsid,inl Boris Yeltsin sufforr.d a snries of lwall11 problems. AskPd whntlrnr hn rngrnt­tPd accepting tlw post, Primakov said in an int1•rvi1~w with Hussia's TV-(1 network: "YPs. many times." lie did not indicate wlwtlwr lw had plans to quit. llfl also rcit­1irntnd his insist1!nce that he would not run for pnisid,~nt, dflspit11 his widesprnad popu­larity and rnporls that hn is considering a bicl. 'Tm tirnd of rnpnating that I havn nei­tlwr ambitions nor desire lo takn part in the struggln for power," lw said. 
Gangs provides scholarships 
TAIPEI 
As a sort or Malia scholarship, Taiwan's gangs am paying Lim tuition of somn univer­sity stud<\nts in nxchange for service as acc'.ountants or other skilled professionals aft1H· graduation. media reports said Sunday. 1;,u1g fronts operating as finance compani1\s will pay school fnns and monthly stipPncfs or $'JOO to $1,200 for n!rndy stu­dm1Ls. 1wwspapnrs and television said, quot­ing from a policn rnport on gang rncruiting tactics. Stud!inls then hand ovnr school transcripts and idPnlil'icalion and sign a "contract" agrnPing to work for tlrn gangs !'or an unspPrifir.d numht\r of' y11ars, lhr. rPports snid. Collngn graduates make up thn majority ol' Taiwan gangs' "litnrary" bosses, who handlP business dnalings. "Military" hoss1•s an• in charge or Pnforcing disciplinn and intimidating rivals, the rnports said. 
Dow 
]ONES 
Nasda<1:-37.51 2590.69 
+29.0ll 
¥ 
407 
NYSE: • . 6i9.30 1.67 
S&P 500: Com1rnsite 1356.85 Volume:10689.67 · 1.98 927,771,000 
VOLUME LEADERS 
f;Olff..-Y  l:laD  :s~­ I Sillllll  1111.1  
h'fli,T 1 !!HP  T  ·':i.'H  ).]700  5-J. JR  
lf"OM CORT'  l'OMS  • 1'5.6A  'l.'19'~'>  25. fll  
Mlt::knson ,·o~p  M~FT  •I  2S  + 1,06.2".>  fH.CO  
DEL.L ('llM:.l'U"rf:~ Hl'l'Tt. CORP  DE.Lt, tl'rr,:  t2. 6;) tO .tit  i1 .12:io •0.2500  4J.OC 6 l. 75  
1 '0M PAO r.011 P'U't'V.R MllD!AONE GROUP  CPQ UMG  2 ,6,S ~11 .H  ·. 6275 ti. HROO  2LQ6 rr.Jfi  
r)l\iiC'l.E CORI'  Of.CL  t 5. gJ  • 1. 'i27;  n .J4  
AMt:P ONLl Nf,' .\MA.20N.f'ClH  ML AMZN  I _47 ,10. r;i:,  ~2.l87'j . lO .05.1'5  146 ~o :no.12  


Assocli\TED PnESS to send armed peacekeeping troops to normally is an act of war, and Chime 
Kosovo without at least the approval registered his resnrvalions. 
WASIIINGTON of the United Nations. Insisting also on specific approval of 
As NATO celebrated its 50th birth­Where a smaller NATO could close tho U.N. Security Council for peace­day and brandished its might over ranks easily to confront the Soviet keeping operations, Chirac said: Yugoslavia, cracks showed through Union, the now 19-member alliance, "NATO cannot and will n'ot be able to the brave front. In a polyglot alliance with its door open to even more mem­act without the authorization of this that no longer confronts the Soviet bers, has to struggle to work together international organization." bear, unity does not come easily. when the issues no longer are black The United States contends the 
"This summit was an impressive and white. authority to intercept oil tankers at demonstration of unity despite the fact Even the otherwise airtight bonds sea and to deploy NATO peacnkeeping that some skeptics feared it would not between the United States and Britain troops in Kosovo is derivnd from a be wise to hold a summit in times of were loosened over the question of U.N. embargo and other Security war." said German Chancellor whether NATO should send combat Council resolutions. Gerhard Schroeder, elected only last troops to Yugoslavia to try to deliver a Asked at a news conference whether year and hence new to the bloc. knockout punch after more than a NATO would nned a new resolution to 
But oven Schroeder, like French month of NATO bombardment. intervene outside the territory of its President Jacques Chirac, who is more France and Britain had signaled members, NATO Secretary-General vocal in his independent views, did not before the summit that they favored Javier Solana said, "No." yield submissively to the hard-line using ground troops in the inconclu­Basically, the U.S. view on peace­leadership of President Clinton and sive conflict, but Clinton much prefers keepers prevailed. but the commu­his loyal friend. British Prime Minister depending for now on an air cam­niques and other statements NATO Tony Blair. paign; so the contentious issue was issued at the summit rellected some of 
"Military interventions must be shelved. the divergence that marked the pri­lngalizcd by a U.N. mandate as a There was no way, though. to dis­vate deliberations of the leadflrs. rule.fl the German leader said, reflect­guise the fissures over the American Initially, the Clinton administration ing a widespread view that NATO initiative to mount a blockade to keep had in mind a NATO forcn, supple­lacks the authority to stop merchant oil shipments from getting lo mented by troops from Hussia and vessels carrying oil to Yugoslavia and Yugoslavia. Stopping neutral vessels some other non-membnrs. 
¦ VENEZUELA 
Citizens endorse Chavez's agenda 
A;;soCIATED Pmiss cent, the electoral council tion to install an authoritari­IMdors of his unsuccessful 
said. ~ an regime. But the president revolt, including Zulia state 
CARACAS The measure'S passage contends the ch,rnge is governor Francisco Arias 
Voting in a nationwide rof-· means Vonetuolans will · needed to overhaul a cor• and rmcrot police chief Jesus erendum Sunday, vote again in July to elect rupt political system that Urdaneta. Venezuelans overwhelming­assembly members. has impoverl.shed most of Many Sl'holars say ly endon,<Jd the centerpiece "This is a glorious day fol' Venezuela's people. Venezuela's ·1961 constitu­of Prosidont Hugo Chavez's Vonozuela," Chavez said in "It's about the country·s tion could be reformed with­agenda for a ''social revolu­a nationally televised speech challenge t6 bring legitima­out a costly and time-con­tion" in Venezuela -his after the vote." We must tell cy l.o the democratic process suming constituent assem• proposal for a new constitu• the world that a new and to reclaim the ess1mce bly. The country hus had 25 tion. domocracyhas been b9rn, .. of what a democracy should constitutions sinco I 811, 
With 80 percent of the not by impositi-00 ot be, generating securiiy and m1d some of Chavez's oppo­votos counted, 88 percent forte, but by a joyful birth justice for the people," hf) 1rnnts bel1',ive adopting No. cast ballots in favor of form• and the consensus of the said moments before casting 26 will do little to address ing an assembly to rewrite majority." his ballot amid a throng of Venezuela's fundamental the constitution. ilnd 82 per­With Chavez's approval admirers. malalso. cent approved the terms rating at more than 80 per­A former army paratroop• But the proposed writ has Chavez has laid out for cent, his proposal had heen er who staged a bloody coup come to symbolize Chavez's electing the assembly's expected to passhandily. It attempt in 1992, Chavez has vow to shakt~ up a system members, according to the was not clear if the high alarmed the political opposi­that most Venezuelans National Electoral Cbuncit abstentloD)YQliJd hurt hi$ tio,fby saying the assembly believe has faifod them. 
Some 11 .inHllon chances '. of . pushing • also.. should diss.olvo "What I want is for him to VenHzuelans were. fJligible to .through his plan to r(~form Congress and the Supreme put the corrupt in chains voto, but most stayed awa,' Venezuela:'s mstitutions. court. and justice for poor people," from the polls, with the Chavez's opponents fear Accompanying Chavez to said Rosa Garcia, a 56-year­abstention rate at 60 per• he wm use a new constitu• the ·polls Sunday were other old grandmother in Caracas. 
+ : ,·.• 
page 6 
Bank 
continued from pagel 
branch will not be charged the $3 monlhly fee, said Keough llall senator Brian O'Donoghue, who has been investigating the issue of campus banking. 
"Jim Lyphout !associate vice president for business opera­tions) really worked hard on behalf of the student body on this issue . . . demonslrating to Key Bank the possible negative response to the charge," 
Power 
continued from page 1 
events. 
"This is utterly lacking any respect." Kirk said. "I think the world of our students, but crowds give people courage. No, this is not courage, this is stupidity." 
Kirk said he will ask student body president Micah Murphy to address the issue at today's Campus Life Council meeting. Murphy could not be reached for comment early this morn­ing. 
Reaction among students pre­sent at the fires was mixed. While some simply stood back and watched, others added fuel to the fires, challenged those putting them out and stood in front of security and fire vehi­cles attempting control both the crowds and the bonfires. Other students took advantage of the flames to roast marshmallows and hot dogs. 
'Tm very disappointed with 
the student body," said sopho­
more Mike Lazinski. "We 
should be more responsible 
Monday, April 26, 1999
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
O'Donoghue said. I 
Malt Mamak, chief' of staff for the office of the president, said Got News? Call 1-5323. that while hP was aware that the charge had been waived, be had not yet heard Key Bank's reasons for doing so. 
"They told me that as long as students open accounts through 

rts@7pfD 
ncer AJ{a:f~:·~e$S
the LaFortune branch, they 
:,:,.,,:-Y;;.:·,:=.-·t:;.,;,,:,_:·,f_. -.:.-. ·· 
don't have to pay the fee, but as far as as far as reasons go, I'm 
•¥'¥l.·
,.:.. ..··.·.,.i..•...·... ..·•·.·:..•.•.. .... ··········.••.·.··.>.' .....•.· ..·.··•·.·.·..·.·.·.•·.·.··..•
....••·.·.··•.·;,.····•.··.·~.·.·<
/J1?'J;{/J:'~ ··:/. ··:·:·:,:·-•;:-:,, :·.·\ :,: ',/
not sure," said Mamak. "It'd be a good bet to say that ND stu­dents are going to be th(' only 
-uuDoJ~i~icago
01~es. in ,,the country not paying this fee. 
:i~\7:••··;·········•.·::1•····•··.······~J}\gii...... . 
.. ··~., ' ..., >,·· .·.... .-;;:;-.,.;::;;7-..... 
than this." Others saw the disturbance as a less weighly issue. "It's the most exciting thing 

that's happened to me at Notre Dame," said sophomore Mike Romero. 
B~tiEB~[,L; '"i.E ACTIVITIES 
As campus fire crews put out Lhe blazes, students moved on to other areas and started new 
t~~'.§~i~it 
,,-,;:·' :
.. ~Jeiasones, usually using pieces of 
i':'.,:\'_':,:i-:;..,""·':,:·.):'•'.'<.:·if{:'::/ :-,
lofts and couches that had been 
~():'=~ .'._;:, :: .... •,: :,·_:· ');; ... =· .. · ; •<:lidas\'VVepcly's 
dismantled last weekend and were sitting outside residence halls for disposal. 
Discarded couches and the wood from dismantled lofts was 
ntl
intended to be given to charity. "People are burning things 

. '.~\ti·
that should be going to poor kids," said Kirk. "People are 
. ' •·· X(~rllia:wks 
being immature and this will go 
.fc:r•,iilteract
on as long as people continue to be immature." The only damage immediate­ly reported was some minor 
·... 8<0 
vandalism and scorched land­
-National -e Club
scaping. Further assessments will be made in the coming 
-ColorGW­
days. 
-Firstf>il<B., 

Christine Kraly, Michelle 
Krupa. Laura Petelle and Finn -Freel3Ql.l[l~rytlp.}i9ket from u.s. Air (Anthony Trauel) Pressly contributed to this 
-YMC,6.D~@$€3{6tliiinning)
report. 

Monday, April 26, 1999_______...:....:..:Th~e ---'l;._..;; 7
0:....::..::bs-=-erv-=-er•---=P:..;..._~_ID_A_D_VE_R_TI_SE_M_E_N_T________ 1ag_e 


.,.t~ ' 
* . 

'l ~~-..· 
, .....!I/"~ ---....~. 
-.,,..,_..t-_,;:., .. . .... , ... -,,,.. . ·-. --,_.,. ,..,. --. . ,.,·" • _.,...,r 
N.OT1 E -J.AME VS~
. 
-f~ ILL! ~01:S·CBlC.AOOl 
Tuesday, April 27, 1999 
Gates open at 6:00 p. m. Game starts !At 7:_00 p.m. 
Jake Kline Field at the Eck Baseball Stadium On the Notre Dame campus 
Rain Date: May 1 
Come to a FREE Notre Dame baseba.ll game 
The first 2()() people to arrive will receive a FREE Adidas T-shirt. 
An additional 300 T-shirts and caps will be given during the game. 
One l?REE round trip ticlret from Anthony Travel will be given away. 
I 
: Representatives from Zeneca llharmaceuticals and other pharn1aceutical companies i will answer questions anyone may have about breast cancer and the products avail­, able to treat and prevent it. 
I 
1 
(}et FREE gifts and prizes by participating in all of the activities before and during the game, everyone will walli away with something. 


HAMMES· 
NOTREDM1E BOOKSTORE 


page 8 The Observer• PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, April 26, 1999 
Abortion, euthanasia and capital punishment demean the lives of countless inciividuals in our society. 
Gather with us in Eucharistic Adoration.· to prax for an end to the culture of death. 

, !.I dill 


"I make a holy hour ~adz day in the presence of Jesus in the Blessett',$acrament. All my sisters of the Missiondries ofcCharity make a daily holy hour as well, bec.a~se we find that through our daily lwly hour oiir fove for Jesus becomes more intimate, our lope for each other more . understanding, and our love for the poor more compassionate.. :" 

•-Mother Teresa 

Sponsored by Noire Dame Righ1 to Life AMDG • lMl 
Jesus is here with us in the Eucharist to give us answers-answers 
that will lead us to truth, happiness and peace. In this culture of death, it is easy for people to become weary and indifferent to God and His gift of life. People often fall 'short of their obligation to care 
for and nurture the spiritual and physical lives of themselves and o.t.h­ers. Eucharistic Adoration gives a person the opportunity to nurture 
his own spiritual life, as well as the spiritual lives of others 
( through prayer for them.) Prayer also protects the physical 
lives of those endangered by abortion, euthanasia and 
other forms ofviolence. It is only through the grace which 
comes-from prayer that others' hearts can be changed from 
seeki~g death to loving life. Christ gives us the strength to press on in our battle for life. In order to be Christ-like in our service 
to preserve life, we must be filled with His life through prayer. We ask you to join us in p~ayer for life at Eucharistic Adoration. 
\Vhat is Eucharistic Adoration? 
God is present to us in many ways in our. world, but He is especially present to us in the Eucharist. As Roman Catholics. we believe that Jesus Christ, who·live<l :moo years ago, is truly present in the Eucharist. In Eucharisti( Adoration, the 1--fost is placed in a monstrance, in order for us to be able to come and pray. lesus is always hidden in the tabernacle, but in adoration He is exposed so that we can come and kntel before Him, face to face, and speak with God. When Jesus is exposed like this, Ile can never be left alone. Thus, people sign up to be responsible to come and pray with Him for a certain amount of time (usually ½-1 hour) every week. 
Why should I go? . 
If Jesus were to come to the JACC, wouldn't you come and stand in line for hours just 
to talk to Him for a minute? Even if you weren't Christian, wouldn't you be at least 
interested in this God so many people talk about? Well, Jesus is truly present here on ·campus-in the Eucharist. IN ADORATION YOU HAVE THE OPPORTUNllY TO GO 
AND SPEAK WITH GOD FACE TO FACE. You can confide in Him, plead with Him, 
question 1-l im. And if you sit quietly enough, He will inspire you with answers. 
What do I do when I am there? 
When you .enter the chapel, you should genuflect as a sign of reverence to Jesus. It is 
common practice during Adoration to genuflect on two knees, instead of just one 
(like you do whenever you enter a chapel.) You can stand, sit, or kneel-whatever 
helps you pray. And then you pray. There are many ways to pray: you can do spiritual 
reading; you can pray a ros;uy; you can sit in silence; you can even just talk to Jesus­
like you woul<l to a friend. The most important thing is that you love Him and allow 
Him to love and strengthen you. 
I 
vVhat does the Chur~ch think? 
NExposition of tlte Blesse4 Sacrament, whether in apyx or amonstrance, is arecognition 
of the wondrous Presence of Christ in the sacrament and stimulates us to unite 
ourselves lO Him in a spiritual co1111nur1io11. It is, accordingly, eminenLiy in harmony 
with the worship wl:icli we owe Him in.spirit and truth ... " 
-l'osl-Conciliar (Vatican 11) Document, S.CD.W. 
EUCHARISTIC ADORATION ON CAMPUS: 
FRIDAY: Lady Chapel in the Basilica: 12:00pm (following 11 :30am Mass) -5:00pm with a Rosary beginning at 4:15pm. (Ends with Benediction at 4:45pm) 
MONDAY beginning at 11 :30pm (following 11 :OOpm Mass) through TUESDAY at 10:00pm (Ending with Benediction at 9:45· 10:00pm) In Fisher Hall Chapel. 

Monday, April 26, 1999 ----The Observer. INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 

TfIANKS FOR ALL THE VOLUNTEEl{S WHO 
WORKED ON 
CHRISTMAS IN APRIL 
APRIL 17 
YOU ALL DID AN OUTSTANDING JOB!!! 
Tl-IE Cl-llUS'fMAS IN APRIL STEERING C~OMMITTEE Tl-IANK.S YOU AS WELL AST.HE BUREAU OF HOUSING AND ESPECIALLY THE HOMEOWNERS WHO COIJLD NOT DO IT \\TJTHOUT YOU!!!! 
Alone, we simply dream... 

. . . together, 
dreams come alive. 

Adrian Dominican Sisters 
1257 East Siena Heights Drive Adrian, Ml 49221-1793 
Exploring Religious Life Retreat June 11-13 
For information or to register, contact: 
S. Joann Plumpe, OP 
(517) 266-3533 
Adplumpe@aoI.com 
Visit our website: www.op.org/adrian 
¦ U!<RA!rJE 
Radioactive waste remains a problem 
Associated Pr~ss 
KIEV 
Thirteen years after reactor No. 4 exploded at the Chernobyl atomic power plant in then-Soviet Ukraine, the legacy of the world's worst nuclear accident remains as messv as ever. 
The downfall of the Soviet Union in 199'1 provided hope for people still coping with the consequences of lhe April 26, 1986 explosion, offering promise that Chernobyl radia­tion victims would receive bet­ter treatment, that the lea kv concrcto-and-steol sheltei· covering the ruined reactor would be rnpaired, that an independent Ukraine would close the ill-fated plant for good. 
1As )!ou Wish '<Jmpot•fs 
Silve.v Ri1,9s  Lots of ]ewel1•11  
Silve.1• Toe 1~in9s  lots of f\ccesscwies  
So>'on9s f>'oin Bcili ·  J,1cense  
.:Jllc,sion Nee.kine.es  .. ,CHk1 11"\uch, 11,LWe  

Direct Importers! Incredible Prices! 
Proceeds help fund the education of 4 Guatemalan children. Donations Welcome! 
LaFortune Room 108 (near phones) May 3-8 10-Spm 
They're still hoping. 
Urged by the West, Ukraine 
pledged to shut down the 
plant bv 2000. Now il snems 
unlikely that the pledg,! wil.1 bl'. 
fulfilled, 
Last week, Prnsidcnt Loonid Kuchma said it f'lat out; Chernobyl will continue to operate until the West pro­vides Ukraine with the osti­mated $1.2 billion tlf!CPssary to complete two new nuclear rnactors nendnd to compen­sate for thn loss of tho elec­tricity Chernobyl providPs. 
Tim Group of S11v1m riclrnst nations promised aid in 11)'15 to lrnlp Ukrainn closn Chernobyl, but the rrntion. strapped for mwrgy and cash, has complairwd lhat llin money has berm slow in com­ing. 
Thanks for your hard work and especiallyyour time and willingness to help a South Bend neighborhood!! 
IT \VAS A WONDERFUL DAY!!!!! 
VIEWPOINT 
page 10-------------------------
Monday, April 26, 1999 
~.li1~1i-ib1JJ¥2..
THE OBSERVER 
111-\I \.-"'} macnclly.com 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, iN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
1999-2000 GENERAL BOARD 
l'DITOR-IN-C"IEF 
Michelle Krupa 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
M Shannon Ry,n Dave Rogero 
AsslSTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
' 
laura l'erelle 
NEWS EDITOR..... . .. ................Tim !.og.m ADVERTISING M-1.NAGER..................... B,yan Lutz V1i;w1•0JNT EmroR .............Colleen Gaughen AD DESIGN MANAGER ............... Kenneth Kearney SroRrs Eu1To1t..........................Brian Kes,ler SYSTEMS M\NAGER........................Michacl Revm Sa-:Nr Emma.....................Michael Vaneg,s CONTROi.i.ER .................................. Timo,hy Lrnc SAINT MARV'S EDITOR ......Colleen McCarthy GIW'HIGS tDITOR..............................Joe Mueller PHOTO EDITOR ........................Kevin Dulum WEB ADMINISTRATOR....................... Erik Kushto 
11,,e Ob!iervcr is [he indepcnt~c-n.r ncw:spar~ published by the .uudcncs of the Universiry of Notre: Dame du l.ac :imf Saine M:uy':s College. h cioo n.ot nc('css.uily rdle~:t rhC" policies ofthe o1drninistmrio11 of cirhcr ins.timrion. The new~ is r~porte-d a.~ accllf;ltdy and objecrivcly a.~ fMJ~ible. Un11_gned itditorials reprCYnt rhc opinion of the majority of the f..diror-in-Chiet. M.tnaging Edluir•.~iq.-n.t Managing Et:Hmr ,1nJ dep:urrnem editors. Co1nrnemo1rie,;, lc.-ners. an\l columns pr~m the VM:W.s of rhe author!"> anJ not m'CC"S.\"'rily th,1.~c c,f.Jlte 06.-.c:-rvc:.r. Vicwpoiru s:pace is .iivatl:ibJr-m .JI member.sof ihe Nun,e Diimc/S..im M.iry's ct1mmw1ii;y a.nd rn "'II u!1der11,. Tht free rxpr.cs.~i,·m ofVJl)'Ulg opinion" 1hrough lcm:r:!i l.> cucour..gt:J. .-...._,'~
0 .. ,,,,, ,;-;,;._
Contacting Thebservcr Editor-·in-Chief &3l-4S42 O!fice M,nogcriG~neral lnfo,maci<>n 631-7471 
Managing Editor/Assista111 ME News­ 631-4541 631-5323  Bllsiness Office Advercis,ng  631-5.}U 6.~ 1-6900/8840  
Viewpoin,  6.ll-5.JO:,  Sv:.remsi\Xleh A<lmrni!,trntor  6J I~88.39  
Sports  6.ll-4:,43  l'~x  6J I-6927  
Scene  6.ll-4540  Ad E·M.il  oh,erver@d.uwin.cc.nd.cJu  
Saint Mary's  631·4324  New'!:. E-M.i.il  obscrvcr,obsnews.I@nd.c:du  
Photo  6.31-8767  Viewpoint E-Mail  obscrvt:r,vicwpoint. l@nJ.t:Ju  

I don't know much about Colorado. If asked, my word association would he "Coors Beer." In the early '60s, people rented trucks to drive to Colorado to buy cases of Coors, which was not then available around the country. All the people I've ever known who have moved to Colorado rave about il. It seems to be one of those states which features a high "quality of life." 
Cappy 
Gagnon 
But because of the events of this last week, the state of Colorado will now hold a more negative connotation, and Littleton will join Waco and Oklahoma City as cities which conjure up horrible images. When I was a sophomore at Notre Dame, Dallas had the same con­notation because of the assassination of President Kennedy. 
When these incidents happen, the . media trot out their standard story lines. It's hard to find a storv which doesn't contain phrases like "Authorities search for answers," "How could it happen here'?" and "Gunmen seemed normal to their friends." {Other than their mode of dress. "Mafia" name association, fasci­nation with violent video games, polire rcrord and isolation from other stu­dents, that is. l 
National politicians quickly jump into the discussion after events of this type. Some politicians call for more gun con­trol AND more armed security guards in schools. These politicians never discuss the dilemma of what to do about those plilces which DON'T lrnve urmcd guards. If armed guards are the answer, dnesn'L every place where people congregate need them to prevent shooters from 
going to unguarded locations? Although 
the Colorado shooters also placed 
bombs throughout the school building, I 
have not read about any movement for 
more "bomb" control. 
r have read stories about Governor 
Jesse "The Body" Ventura and Charlton 
"Moses" Heston calling for MORE guns 
among the law-abiding public for self ­
defense. They seem to envision those 
more self-reliant, Dodge City kind of 
days when a man's sixgun and quick 
draw were his best friends. I don't think 
I want to practice shooting tin cans off 
fence posts while slapping leather. 
When I worked for the Los Angeles 
Sheriff's epartment, I carried a handgun 
which I kept in my locker at the sheriffs 
station. I also owned my own handgun 
for personal protection. Because I had 
two young children, I kept Messrs. Smith 
& Wesson locked in a wall safe whenev­
er it was not on my person. When I left 
Los Angeles, I sold my gun. I am VERY 
careful about where I go. And when. 
A local radio station is calling for more 
appreciation of "different" types of stu­
dents, like the Colorado shooters (whom 
apparently had disdain for athletes, who 
they perceived as being the leaders of 
the "in-crowd" to which they did not 
belong), There have been several stories 
in the media about young persons 
whose mode of dress or grooming sets 
them apart. Other persons are calling 
for uniforms in schools as a means to 
make all students look more alike. I 
have not read any stories pointing out 
the contradictions involved in both valu­
ing this diversity and trying to eradicate 
it. 
Notre Dame junior Laura Petelle 
wrote a wonderful Observer column last 
week about our loss of innocence. 
Dozens of Notre Dame students have 
written lcttet's complaining about the 
Notni Dame "cocoon," with all of the 
regulations ol' du Lac and their percep­. tion that the administration is too 
restrictive on student freedom. EVEHY 
parent of a Notre Dame student I have 
HON:STHAT EXIT STRATEG'l COt.\l~G ALO~? 
ever met has told me they take grnat comfort from knowing that the adminis­trators, rectors, faculty and staff here run a tighter ship than those at most other colleges. If the loss of' innocence is delayed a few year by attending Notre Dame, I would put that in the "w~n col­umn" for my favorite school. There is plenty of time to face hard knocks. With more seasoning, it may be possible to triumph over these hard knocks more easily. 
On the other hand, we must not let the bucolic nature of our campus lull us into a false sense of security or dull our senses to the problems around us while we attempt to enjoy our life here to the fullest. President Reagan was often quoted about his approach in dealing with leaders of the Soviet Union. He said he followod the adage that one should talk with one's cnemies,."but shuflle the cards." This aphorism can be modified for life in the H.W. (Real World). Whm1 I have spoken to student groups about 
-------. --, 
~. 
personal safety, l explain that it is OK to be open and trusting, but not without keeping their "antennas" on alert. As Gavin de Becker eloquently writes in "The Gift of' Fear," trust your intuition (female version) or list1rn to yi'>ur gut (male version). 
There are no pat answers about these problems. We will all be long dead beforo someone gets a handle on the social. economic and demographic caus­es of societal problems. In t!w mean­time, we should do our very best to make sure we arc good citizens in our own lives, while carrying on tlw Notrii Dame tradition of' community servic1\. 
Cappy Gagnon. '66, is coordinator of Stadium Personnel. I/is column appears every other Monday. . The views expressed in this column are those 4 the author and uot 1wces­sarily those ofThe ObsPrver . 
¦ DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
{it· ::::r?f?;;:,.-::=·:·:.ri::·::•~:?~i}{-i\::t·,:w ... ANYC:Yv8fle.ReHA~ANY
lffATYaJAP'£ 
gpffQA£ Me0/C4l {X)NPf/laV_?
~/rl4YIM. 
N:J? 77-ltiNtliTtiWTROUING/
OR.SHOCI( 
ANPRbM#f~R., TIPP/Nf3
l<&>VUSMI~ 
l5~/77lil}.I I
KeYaf{,(Jt',/iP,I ' 'U,lv, 
¦ Quon OF rm: DAY 
,Ifthe whole human race lay 
in one grave, the epitaph on its headstone might well be: 'It seemed like a good idea at the time.' 
-Rebecca West 
VIEWPOINT 
Monday, April 26, 1999 --------------------
page 11 
Colorado Tragedy Unearths Moral Issues 
¦ LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
¦ UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA 
It's Not 'Supposed' to Happen Anywhere 
Lives Are More 
"This isn't supposed to hap­does that sound'! or mass media. I am not trying p1m here." How many times Whenever I heard someone to argue that those had nothing was that phrase utt(•rnd during say, "It's not supposed to hap­t.o do with the situation, hut I
Important Than 
the recent tragedy in Colorado'! pen here" I wish I could ask think that they arc easy, quick 
OK then, where·are two just where it was supposod to fixes to thn problem and onlv toenagers "supposed" to happen. the surface of these issuns. 'i"o employ a strategic death mis­walk up to somnonc, shoot
Ratings 
sicm'' The most common reason them in the f'ace and then laugh why it was not supposed to about it takns a seriousMINNEAPOLIS been found and killed. 
hapµon them was because amount or hatrnd and a.Journalists ofhm exaggerate KUSA had several options to it was a close-knit. lack ol' basic morals. If
or marginaliui th0 facts of a avoid endangtiring the stu• 
upper-middle class. we am lo prev«\nt 
story to n11tke it morf' inter­dents. The station could have 
homogenous com­future incidents of
esting; TherP's no usfl denying chosen not to broadcast the 
munity. Them, in this nature fromit. r.onversations and instead a television happening weCnverag!l of the Columbine assisted the students in their interview. a need to tak11 alligh School shooting near quest for safety. If the dosire teacher from serious lookn,mvM by KUSA, thfl for sensationalism was so 
thH high
Littleton. Colo., Nat.ional grcat, tho station could have 
school said
Broadcasting Co. affiliate still protected the students by 
it was not
went bevond the boundaries forbidding the students from 
supposed 
________________ have
or rns1rn~~tnblo journalism -making statomonts that would 
to happen
beyond 
there
1wcn the endan­
becausn it.
bound­gered 
was not
aries of themsolvos 
an inner­
sensa­and oth­
Dan 
city school.
tionalism ers. A sim­
What is
-by ple time 
that sup­
endan­delay of a 
posed to
Maruska
gering couple sec-
mean" Are
scvPral 
t11enag111's
_----========----haveonds could
of thl' 
at Urn way we sodaliz1! our chil­
drnn ­
especially by gnndor. /\II of' thn suspncts in tlrn recent 
school vio­lencn cases havn bmm male. I nncourage you to go to a 
"supposed" to go toy storn or a
students hiding in thn school. ensured live voices from the 
on a strategic storn with a largn
By 11xposing tho location of scone were still heard, but 
death mission only toy dnpartnrnnt. 
Urn students on tho air, sensa­nothing too revealing was put 
if their school is not in Thern are definitelytionalism endangered lives. on the air. 
a close-knit, upper-mid­aisles that an• "mal11"lmnrndiah?ly aft.Pr television As the events progressed, dle class community and if it and "fomaln." Ilow can you
coverage began, several stu­KUSA realized its mistake. · 
is in the inner-city? Is that real­tr.II? Look at the colors or tlrndents cnllnd the police or the advising students not to call ly .the mentality or people in packaging and the typ1is c'ir toysstntirm using their cell the station and to turn off the these close-knit, upper-class The reality is that it is not in each section. The "male"
phonPs. KUSA's egrngious t11levisions. But this was after 
communities? lfit is, then I am supposed to happen anywhern. aisles urn very dark whnrn asdecision was to broadcast several conversations had pnrsonally oITendcd. The fact remains that it did the "fomaln" aislns am pinkconVf1rsations lmtween the already been broadcast, and it I went to a high school that happen, and it happened in a and pastel. /\nd pnopln wondnranchors and tho stud'1nts, as contradicted previous encour­was not very close-knit, by no close-knit, upper-middle class, why boys want to kill withtho students rnvonlcd specific agements of students to call. 
means homogenous and consid­homogenous community. If it is wnapons and girls want tolocations where they were Even outside the school ered an inner-city high school. not "supposnd" to happPn starve themsnlws to dnath.
hiding. building, KUSA acted irre­According to this way of think­there, then why did it'! WhyThn first student spoke with sponsibly. Shortly after the ing, the students at Thomas H. have such large scale acts of Audra E. Aceyrepc,rters !'or several minutes, story came on the air, the sta• Proctor Senior I ligh School are violence become so common in Juniorduring which time he lion's helicopter began a live the ones that are "supposed" to our schools'? The easy answers McCandless I!all
f('VPOlecl the nxact details of broadcast of the high school kill each other. How ridiculous are gun control and regulation April 2'i, 1999
his hiding pince. The anchors campus. As the camera hardy discourag~id the stu­panned across the school, a dl'nt as hn stated that he was SWAT team running in the on tho second 11oor in a class­shadow of a fire, truck came 
,--­
-' \ I '-~~1lS -' { t \ l room above the cafeteria. lie into view. The team needed to said hfl could hear students in enter the building clandes­the cafeteria scream, and he tinely, but was instead could hear the suspects run­exposed to anyone in the 
\ ' ' .,,;.~··; -\ ( ' r 
l I ( {
ning down the hall outside of country who happened to be 
' 
.:;
his classroom. As explosions tuned to CNN. The camera · 
.. ' • \ , • 
and gunshots continued, he immediately panned over to 
\ ' I -, { \
revealed he was hiding the parking lot where officials 
,
lmhind thn desk near the win­were amassed, and the 
I {dows. KUS/\ didn't under­anchors changed the sub_ject. stand the danger, and the While KUSA's actions were 
\
anchors continued to speak dangerously negligent, they with the student. can be partially understood. The second student called When Fox's "World's Most 
~~
"" 


from his coll phone as he was Dnngerous Police Chases" hiding in a bush outside the becomes tho standard for scitmco classrooms. Another broadcast jourqalism, the sludent called from his house competition for sensational, llf'tPr he had eseapPd and told exciting broadcasts ls keen. 
Reckers' Video Violence Unacceptable
the reporters, and ihe audi-llowever, there is a line 
I am not a frequent patron of came in with two recruits, (Mr. Michael Davy) or tlw1mc:(). his friMds were hiding between sensational broad• Heckers but occasionnlly von­showing off this popular social Director of Food Services (Mr. 
In tho choir room. casts and irrm,ponsiblo broad­
ture over there for a cup of cof'­space and tho new additions. David Prentkowski) and ask
The students callrd the sta­casts. KUSA crossed that line. 
fen wilh a friend. Last Friday I What impression did this ganrn tlwm to remow viol1rnt games
tion becausP KUSA is NBC's Quick and sonnd judgement 
did just that, and was disturbnd make on tlrnsn young mun? Is from our public domain.
local aniliato. While KUSA's cun prevent danger and the by s()mcthing I saw. this type of game a symbol of W11 cannot nmtrol the ganwscovorago was broadcll.st on loss of lives. With an:v luck, At one or the computflr game who we are at Notrn Dame. and students play in tho privacy of
CNN, it was broadc1Lst locally the media might hav'e learnerl stations (which aro a grnat what we stand for'' I think not. thnir rnsidc•ncP hall room, but
as w1ill. All of tho students f'rom KUSA's mist1\kes. 
addition to Uw facility) was a On a positive note, at another WP should not have to PlldurPwho hnd phoned the station 
student engrossed and station. a trio of stud1mts were such violPncP in our public
had tho unique rxpericncc of This article first appeared 
entranced by a game. It playing another game, obvious­spares. Ld's do what w11 can to
hearing themselws on class­irt The Minnesota Daily on 
appeared tho obj<ict or the ly enjoying each other's compa­konp our honw safn.
room t1ilnvisions. Apparently April 22, 1999, and is reprint­gamn was to kill as many peo­ny and having f'un without the
those studonts were not ed courtesy ofilte lJ. Wire. 
plo us possible. In the wake of presence of violtmc11. This is Sue Hindcrlidcr 
nwnro that the station was not The views expressed in this 
Urn recent. tragedy in Colorado, what. Notrn Danw is all about. lkrtnr
concerned enou~h to care column are tho:~e of the 
it was upsetting to witness a It is my understanding that I low.ml ll.111
that the suspocts could just author and not necessaril.1; 
Notrn Dame studnnt nngaged in llecknrs provides tlw ganrns for Aptil 2j, 1999
have easilv seen the broad• those of The Observer. 
such violent. "play" tinrn. student usn. I urge you to con­
cast. Willi.KUSA's assistance, 
Whil11 I was tlrnrc, a priest tact the manager or Heckersmorr s1udm1ts might havo 

The Force Will•be with 
summer's biggest 'menace' 
ByJtWFREY Q.)RlSH 
ScehC:Mrivic Crirfo" 
Not long from now, at theaters everywhere, "Star Wars Episode I; The Phantom Menacett will appear, _ anc.l.:;?\lery per~on wiJh ei,~lthhU(:ks. wilt\y<;1Jt in Hn¢~.~O 
..., long_;that waiting for fo(Jtba:U tickots wilLsoom like a trip through hyperspace. Devout fans from all over the globe have already lined up for a week-and a•half ju.st to got th<' first glimpses of tho highly anticipated 
oven 1nore Gxtraordinarv rf\alms and adventures, vis­its tcftbe .Jedi Temple at Coruscant and the sight of Ana.kin confronting his fears in an attempt to save the galaxy. 
The Technology 
As LU<'as did with (he SJWCial editions of' his original trilogy. he is limiting the playing of his movies only tu theaters with his THX sound system. a state-of-the-art cinema system that <rnsures quality sound and movie 
epic. ____ _ · .------------------------~ enjoymnnt in evBry theater Tbernovie dM($n't actual-HSfar w;ar_s Episode I:
__-(while Lucas makns anoth­ly open until May 19 (a er buck). Lucas stunds to sneak preview will be Th Ph M ,, makr more than a frw offered for children's chari-e anfom enace bucks for himself -he ties on May 16), but that_ owns five different movie doesn't matter to Starwoids'.· industry companiiis. which (the cultists who live in Director: George Lucas include l.u<'as Arts_ and George Lu1.;as' make-Lucas Digital. These two believe world). who have are the main special effects been using the Internet to companies in the movi1\ hype the J'ilm for oVPr a Starring: Liam Neeson, Ewan McGregor, industry. 
year. One Starwoid oven Natalie Portman, Jake Lloyd and Samuel L This allows Lucas to lrnvP flew in from Australia 35 full control in making tlw days in 11dvance just to sit Jackson first feature film that is in line outside L.A.'s backnd by almost all digital Mann's Chinese Theatre footage. Wlwn a typical and wait for the film to Opens May 19 summer movie has approx­
opcn. He had a friend run­ning his Web site in the case that any big "Episode I" news brnaks. In fact, there am over 7,000 Web sites that honor tlw unreleased film. 
The majority of those sites are for Starwoids, con­taining essays on whether or not C-31'0 is homosexual and how Lucas devnloped the idea of the Force from the stock market. But there arc tvvo that stand out as the pioneers in new "Episode I" material. They are Stanrars. com and slarwars. counlingdown. com. Starwars. com is the ollicial site with all of the latest news and the most in-depth coverage, and there is a bigger vPrsion of the trailer and some otlrnr internst­ing facts on starwars.countingdown.com. The follow­ing information came from these sites and from vari­ous others. Check them out to get the latest on any aspect of "The Phantom \1enace." 
The Story 
The original "Star Wars" trilogy took us through tlrn heroic life of Luke Skywalkor, a farm boy who used the Force to save the galaxy from the Empire's evil grasp. During this trilogy, viewers will learn that the diabolical leader of the Empire, Darth Vader. is actu­ally Luke's father. Ana.kin Skywalker. The second tril­ogy. which begins with "The Phantom Menace," goes back a full generation to foll the story of young Anakin, through his development into a Jodi KnigJiit and his eventual betrayal b jqining th-e Bmpire. 
ht isode h A.riakin i st a nine,,-yi,ar~old 
· ark 
ness the litkal tur­
' ___ -t rnn initially dispatched 
l>tween the planet Naboo and the Trade F<'deration. Upon arrival, tlrn two bd'ricnd a disaster-prone native named Jar Jar Binks. who loads them to Amidala. tlw Naboo Queen. Trouble along the way forr11s a dotour to the planet Tatooirw, whern Qui-Gon arranges for spare parts with Watto, a pot­bellied birdlike creaturP. While talking to Wallo, Qui Gon feels tho presence of' the Pore!) in the slave boy Anakin. 
Sound interesting'? It only gets better. "Episode I" has f'umiliar characters from the original trilogy such as C-3PO, R2-D2. Yoda and Jabba the Hutt. Also included arc multiple lightning-fast battle scenos, 
imately 2,000 shots. only 
about 2:iO of tlwm an~ digi­
ta!. "Titanir" sPt tlw rPcord 
for the most digital shots of any movie with about 500: 
"The Phantom M1rnarn" will nwPrsc tlw norm with 
about 2,000 digital shots and only 250 normal onPs. 
"Episode I" will also be thn first lilm to evnr haVI' f'ully digital charactPrs play a major rolP. Tlw digital frogman .Jar Jar Binks plays a supporting rcil,•, and hundreds of other fully digital cn!aturns and droids such as Watto and H2-D2 will appirnr throughout tlw Iii m. 
The Cast 
AsidP f'rom the hundrnds of digitally g«>nPratE•d nca­tur11s, Lucas has an all-star cast of' ma! actors. Ewan McGregor ("Trainspotting") stars as Obi Wan 1'.cnobi and Academy Award nominee Liam Nenson ("Schindlnr's List") plays tlrn VPnnrab]P Qui-Con .Jinn. Nine-year-old Jake Lloyd plays young Anakin Skywalkcr, Natalie Portman (Broadway's A111w Frankl plays tlrn quei~n of' Naboo and Samu11I L . .Jackson 
_("Pulp Fi<'tion") plays the secondary rolP of' MarP Windu. 
The Marketing 
The man who initiated movie mass-merchandising 
is atj\•~~<!Jn wit~ record_ profits from merchandising alo.Qij expe<:ted to b11 almost $1.25 billion. A<:1ion lig­ures,,clothiug, watches, posters. lunchboxPs and any­thing else that can get a Star Wars charaC'tnr on it will be 
rxn f)narkoting, Lucas is charging a 
. aria se p; it all. Insider rumors about ('.V<'fY aspe tof the film have hrcn circulating for yrars on Wnb sites. and then Lucas unvcilml tlw trailnr. Fans lined up to pay the hefty price of $8 to sec tlw trailer and then lef't (thankf'ully) bPfor1J "M1•1•t .loP Illa.ck" could start. Tnlovision and radio stations a1:tuallv cov­nrnd thn cvont. /\ftor !Paving, it was unanirnou~ that t.lw trailer was worth the $8. 
"The Phantom Mnnace'' should lH' 1)xtrc111clv fast and exciting, and will lure almost any unsold ;11ovi1i fan to tlrn tlwatPr in tlrn blink of an nyr. Tlw graphics ar1i impc\ccably cl(mr and tlw crisp sound makes viPW­ors feel as though they are sitting in thr thoawr next to Artoo (short for H2-D2). Awo-irn;piring, il will send chills throughout any vinwpr's body. If llw wail until May 19 is too much. the trailer can currently bP downloaded free of chargP from almost any "Star \!Vars" \,\:'nb sit1:. 
IRISH INSIDER 

THE
Monday, April 26, 1999 OBSERVER page 1 

By TIM CASEY 
Spor1., Wrnn 
Whi!P many qunstions rnmain rnnc,•rning Llw loss or graduat­ing sPniors, 0111• conclusion can !w drawn f"rom Saturday's 70tli­a111111al Bl1w-Gold S!'.rimmage: Tlw Irish lmvP playmaknrs who an• PagPr to ,:onlrihutP. 
'"WP had sonw hig plays offon­sivdy. WP an• ta!Pntl'd and nHm• explosiv11 offi,nsively than w1•v1• lll•t•n in tlrn pasl." said coach Boh DaviP following the 4'J-IO vii-tory for lht• Blun squat\, whil"h rulminall,d tlm \ !l spring pra('ticPs. 
L,·nding tlw charg(i on offt·nsP was sopho111oni l"Pt:niv1•r .lavin ll1111\.1•r, wlrn 1·anrn up wilh two long catclws of' (17 a11d 72 yards from harkup quartt>rhack Arnaz Batlln. ll1111lt•r l'inishnd tlw ~a1111\ with !'our l'l't't•plillllS l"ur 
14:1 yards and a tmwhdown. 
"ll.'s lml'll awhill' since wc·v,1 s1•1111 sonwhodv l'llll down tlrn midclln Df tlw n·P!d likn that and 111ak1\ tlws1• kind of' big plays," said Davin. "Javin llunlcr looks to bn that big play maker." 
"I wnnl to be tlw best receivnr I can lw," said llunter following tlrn gamn. "I think I can bring that big-play threat to the table but I can also do a lot of other things to lmlp the team win." 
OIT1~nsive game MY!' honors went to s1mior quarterback Jarious Jackson, who was 5-6 passing for 73 yards and a touchdown. 
.Jackson saw limited playing limn but was impressive nonel lwli!ss. I!is performancn was highlightml by a 34-yard pass play lo .!tiny (;ctlH)rall on lhn fourth play of thn day and a sevnn-yard touchdown pass to tight PIHi nan O'l.eary. who was wide open in Lhc mi<l zone. 
"I camn out today and hart a prPtty dcccrnt day. but that's not going to stop m11 from working hard and trying Lo compld,\ myself as a quartor­hack," said Jackson. 
Al tailback, Uw void !dt by Autry D1\nso11 may scmn large, 
but his successors both looked 
solid in Saturday's ganrn. 
Sophomore Tony Fisher and junior Tony Driver are in a dead heat as of now for the starting position. Fisher finsilrnd the game with 64 yards on seven carries and Driver carried the ball six times for 6:~ yards. 
'I WANT TO BE THE BFST RECEIVER I CAN BE. I THINK I CAN BRING THE BIG­PLAY THRFAT TO THE TABLE BUT I CAN AlSO DO A LOT OF OTHER THINGS TO HELP 
THE TEAM WIN.• 
lAV!N l/UN1F!i 
SOP!IOMOIW wmu RHCF!Vlill 
Both took snaps with Urn first tnam olfonse and wnrn particu­larly impressive in running Urn ball between the tackles. 
"Both Fisher and Driver am guys that will hit it up there. They're going lo gnt some shots, but thny'll give out somn as well," said Davin. 
Paving the way for Jackson and the backs was the inexperi­cn ced offensive line. who turned in their lwst p1irf'or­mance of tlrn spring, especially in pass blocking. Although they lost four starters to graduation, including first-round draft pick Luke Pctitgout. Jackson has srwn a major improvpmnnl in the line. 
"Thn dnfonsc was kind of lirn­ite'd today in what limy did as far as thn blitz packages and things of that naturn. but. th1~ offensive line still picked it up well." said Jackson. "They played with 1m1otion today ancl that's tlw most important thing. I didn't foe! rushnd. not onc1i today in the passing game." 
Thn blue tnam. consisting of the first l11,tm nffonsP and dcfensn. bollPd out Lo a 28-0 
lead in the first quarter and never looked back. Fullba!'.k Jony Goodspnnd scored tlw first touchdown of thn day on a two­yard run up tlw micldln. FP!low fullbacks Tom l.opim1ski and Mike McNair wPrn also solid, with l.opienski scoring on runs of mm and 29 yards and McNair catching a 12-yard touchdown pass from third-string quart1n-­back l•:ri(' Clrnppnll in I.hf' third quarLPr. 
McNair. a l'aradP AII­Anwrican running back out of' high school, who switrlwd lo l'ulllmck as a l"rnshman last fall. led thn gold [Pilm in rushing with 4<> yards on l I carries. Tim bulk of McNair's yardagP ca1111~ against th1\ 1'irst.-t1;am dcfons1~. 
"I think I do a lol lrnUPr in gamos than I usually do in prar­tirn." said thn sophonmrn from Corona de! Mar. Calif. "I alwavs rrned to gnt. h11tlnr and I thii;k lhat's what l'vn donn progrc\s­
sec CAME / page 3 
Quote of the Ga1ne
Player of the Ganie 
Stat of the Game 
"I couldn't holp bul stand out on thn !fold and think to 
Wide rncivor .lavin Iluntrir caught throe passes -•
Jarious Jackson comµhitod six ol' his night 
myself how rapidly the game flowed." 
two ol' which travelPd for morn than <,() yards -for
passt'S for 8!i yards and a touchdown. 
Bob Davie 
143 yards and a touchdown.
011 the lack of1V timeouts 

team hardly made an impact. Bobby Brown had no catches on the day, while Jay Johnson and Raki Nelson caught only one apiec11. Afler only 15 
Fullbacks power the offense 
practices with new offensive coordinator Kevin 
llogers, the passing game was expected to h"" n By MIKE CONNOLLY powerful running style. lam just trying to help the team out." bit rus~y. Associacc Spons Editor "Look at big Lopienski; he's 11. load," McNair, playing against the. first 
head coach Bob Davie said. "Anrl hP string defense, wet::; the workhorse for 
Offensive Line: B-
Nolre Dame has had a tradition of can f'R tch too." the Gold team. The young unit showed that they have the producing j:!nial fitllbacks in tlie 9US. On the second Blue possession of McNaiI-carried 11 times for 48 potential to bo solid next year. Jackson hardly felt 
Sporle; Illustrated rated Notre Dame the game, Jackson completed a pass yards and caught one pass for 12 any pressure all day, while the running games as being lhe best school for fullbacks to the big sophomore fullback who yards. wracked up 302 total yards for both teams. in the country. Anthony Johnson, powered his way for 11 yards and an McNair played a pivital role on the Playing against the back-up defensive line make Hodncy Culver. Jerome Bettis, Ray first down. Three plays later, Gold's only touchdown drive on the these stats somewhat suspect, but it is still hard Zellars and Marc Edwards have all Lopienski got the call again and day. to fmd fault with thls strong effort. 
been snlnctcd by NFL teams since exploded through lhe middle of the On third down and four from the 
1990. By the time their Irish careers defense for 29 yards and a touch­Blue 40-yard line, McNair burst Defensive Line: B arc over, Tom Lopicnski and Mike down. through the defensive line and into With its aggresiveness somewhat limited by McNair might be added to that list. Lopienski's second touchdown came the open field. A'Jani Sanders and rules against tackling the quarterback, the del'en­
Senior Joey Goodspeed, Lopienski late in the second quarter. On first Dcke Cooper stepped up to stop the .sive lines produced fow big plays. It did manage and McNair are all competing for the down from the five-yard line, a blitz­sophomore fullback but McNair ran to pursue well down the line and stop the opti,on starting fullback position. ing Gold linebacker flew untouched them both over before being dragged attack all afternoon. The prnssure on the quarter­
"It's going to bring up the competi­through the middle of the offensive down by two more defenders. backs, especially by the Blue team, was good all 
tion at the position," Lopienski said. l_ine. Lopienski, after taking only one After an offsides penalty moved the day and tallied five sacks. 
"Whoever wins the job is going to be a step out of' his stance, met the line­ball five yards closer to the goalline, grnat player.•· backer head on and stopped him cold McNair carried again and grabbed Linebackers: A 
"The competition rnally motivates in his tracks. eight more yards and a first down. Rocky Boiman, Ronnie Nicks and Anthony me." :vtcNair said. "They are both Thanks to Lopicnski's block, tail­Finally, Chappell dropped back to Denman all proved that this year's linebackers grnat fullbacks." back Tony Fisher louitnt forward for throw from the 12-yard line. Chappell could be just as good as last year's. Nicks led the 
Lopienski carried the ball only four three yards. Lopienski took the ball on found McNair open and the Gold team Blue toam with nine tackles. while D1mman won times on Saturday in the 70th-annual second down and powered through picked up its only touchdown on the the Defensive MVP award with his six tackles and Blue-Gold game -twice his runs the middle for his second score of tbe day. a 34-yard interception return. Boiman scored a ended with six more points on the day. With Goodspeed's experience and touchdown on a 42-yard rumble recovery. Carlos scoreboard for the Blue team. "It felt nice to get the touchdown," McNair and Lopienski's size and Pierre-Antoine, Joe Ferrer and Tyreo Harrison Averaging 8.5 yards per carry, Lopienski said. "But keeping the speed, the battlf\ for fullback will be a proved capable back-ups with a strong day for 
Lopienski wowed Irish fans with his blocks is what I try to concentrate on. critical one. the Gold team. 
¦ SCORING SUMMARY 
First Quarter 
BLUE -Goodspeed 2-yard run (Sanson kick). 10:12 
BLUE = Cooper 45-yard interception return (Sanson kick). 10:01 
BLUE -O'Leary 7-yard pass from Jackson {Sanson kick). 6:57 
Second Quarter 
GOLD -FG Miller 24-yards, 5:13 
BLUE -Lopienski 1-yard run 
(Miller kick), 6:39 
Third Quarter 
GOLD-McNair 12-yard pass 
from Chappell (Sanson kick), 
6;08 
BLUE -Boiman 42-yard 
fumble recovery {Sanson 
kick), L:B 
Fourth Quarte..­
BLUE -Hunter 6i-yard pass from Battle (Miller kick). 4: 19 · 

Secondary: B 
The Blue team turned in a solid performance,
¦ STATISTICALLY SPEAKING 
highlighted by Dcke Cooper's first-quarter inter, ception return for a touchdown. The Blue sec­ondary was not challenged or called upon to Scoring 1st 2nd 3rd 4th Toial 
make many tackles as the linebackers and defen­sive line effectively shut down tho Gold offense. It Blue 28 0 14 7 49 
is always a good sign when safeties have less Gold 0 10 0 0 10 
tackles than linebackers and defensive line. The Gold secondary had a tougher day against the first string recievers, getting burned twice on long bombs. Shane Walton almost managed to pick off 
a pass for the Gold.
Team Statistic Blue Gold 
Kicking: A
First Downs 14 18 
Jim Sanson and David Miller each hit all extra­
Rushes-Yards 40-114 29-202 
point attempts, and Miller hit the lone field goal
Passing Yards 74 232 attempt on the d,ty. You can't ask for much moreComp-Att-lnt 6-21-2 15-21-0 
from the kicking game.
Fumbles-I ,ost I-l 0-0 Penalties-Yards 1-5 4-19 Time of Possession 31:32 16:28 
Punting: D 
David Miller had two punts on tho day. His first, a 34-yarder, was low and would not have given a punt coverage team enough time to get down the 
Individual Statistics 
field. His second kick of the day was high and long, traveling 45 yards. However, it bounced into the endzone for a touchback, netting only 25 
Rushing -Blue: Fishel' 7-64. Driver 6-63, Coodspeed 
yards. Both of Gerald Morgan's punts were 5-41. Lopicnski 4-34. Gold: McN1lir 11-46, Levy 6-31, 
shanks that traveled· loss that 30 yards each time. Howard 8-17, O'Neill 3-17 
Neither player will handle punting duties next year with two freshman punters set to arrive this Passing -Blue: Baltic 9-12-0-182, Jackson 5-(,-0-73. 
fall. Gold: Chappnll 5-17-1-65. Huln 1-2-0-9 Overall: 2.962 Receiving -Blue: Hunter 4-143, Givens 3-26, A solid efforl by both teams gave lhe coaches a Getherall 2-47, O'Leary 2-15. Gold: Owens 2-30. good idea about whero they' stand at the end of lloward 1-13, McNair 1-12, Johnson 1-10 spring practices. Improvement is still needed, but the Irish are on the right track for a successful 
Monday, April 26, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 3 
¦ IRISH INSIGHT 
Davie's third season could be 'the year' for ND 

By MIKE CONNOLLY 
A.miciatc Sports Editor 
Sup,irstition and legends hav~ always pluyod in roln in Notre Dame football. An oxaminatiou or llw upcoming soason shnws 110 doparb1rn l'rom this history. 
Every Notre Dame coach who hm; won a national title, including Knut.ti Hockno, Frank Loahy, Ara Parseghian, Dan Dnvinc and Lou I loltz, won their first title in their third season as head coach. 19lJ9 is Bob Davie's third soason. 
Tho Irish haVt·l won the national titlo the past thrn,, limos that the yoar has nndcd in a double number -196(,, 1977, 1988. Will 191)9 be tlrn l<iurth straight year'! 
Kevin Roger's rww olfonsn scornd 49 poinb in a single gnrnc whih~ Greg Mattison's defonso held tho gold tnam to 1mly 10. Don'l order your 1999 National Champion T-shirts just yet. 
While the 49 puinl'-i scored by the Irish offonsn was impressive, I don't. think that Ten \fartin and thP 102,000 fans in Nnyland Stadium am ready to give up the Volunteers' titfo this early. 
Thn mere 10 points surrnndorml by the Notrtl Dame defense was also a strong show, but Purdue quartorbmck llfl'.W 11roos won't losn any sleep because of somn numerology and the Irish looking gone! in the spring game. 
Many fans on Saturday were already deeming Kevin Hogcrs an offensive genius and Greg Mattison's nnw 4-:~ package the greatest defense sinrn Bryant Young controlled tho trnnchns in 1993. 
;\ little enthusiasm al'tnr the 70th­annual Blue-Gold game is expected. Tlw Irish gav<\ a glimpse ol"their tal<mt and showed real progn•ss toward becoming a great team. 
.Javin Hunter emergnd as a player who rnuld givr, tlw Irish tlwir best dnnp ball throat since Michael Miller left the team in 1994. Jarious Jackson appr,ars to be completely recovered from his knee injury and has picked up his game wlrnrn 
he left oil' last year, going !i-h on tho day. 
Mattison's dnfonse, nspnrially Urn li,w­backers, appeared to be aggrnssiw play­muknrs. Hocky Boiman, Anthony Demman and llonniei Nicks arc, all play makors who hit peopln on ovory play. 
Bui it is still only spring and thn first game is more than four months away. 
Tim spring ganin is likP a quiz: You want to do w<ill, but success or l'ailurP in a quiz won't make or brnak your grad,•. 'fosts and tl111 final nx1u11 an· tlrn most important part ol' your grade. Tlw al'tual gamns aro tlrn tnsts 1111d tlw final nxa111 will comp on .January I hut tlw Irish passed their first quiz, 
The offonsn lookNI good -against thr second and third tPam dt'fi•ns<'. Tlw young olfousive Jinn gavn .Jackson enough limo to throw -blocking walk­ons and back-ups. 
Iluutnr caught a 72-yard homb ­before ~ming pulln"d down from !whine! short ol'the guaJ line. 
Tlw dofons<\ closnd off holns and pri•s­surcd tho quartNback all day -!waling back-up offnnsivo li11nnw11 who havn even less oxporiPncn tlv1n Uin young starting olfonsivn lirw. Boiman and Dolw 
Coop,;r ,,,.,,i, H<:or·,-rl t1rn~nsivn touch­downs -against tho sncond string offonsn. 
Irish fans can Im confident that al't.1\r the spring game, Bob Davit' has a good team with a lot or potcmt.ial. Thmn arc still many /Joins to fill and wrinklos to iron out hnl"orn the Kansas ganrn. 
llow the offensivn lino will play against. top compntition is still unknown. Wlrntlmr Tony Driwr and Tony Fislwr can lill Autry Dcmson's big shons is still a mystery. And no OIH' ran lw sum if Brork Williams will turn around w!wn tlw ball is thrown toward thn man lw is covPring. 
But Irish fans havn nvcry right to lw optimistic after this spring ganw. Tlw 1999 Irish will be'. good. Ilow good is still unknown. 
The uiews express,,(/ in this rnl1111m arl' those of lhe author and not necessarily tlws rfThe Obserl'er 
Game 
nrntinued from page I 
si\'Ply lhroughout the• spring." 
llPfP11sivPly, tlll' front s1w1\n 
rontrol!f'CI 1·1w li111• 111' scrim­
magP agai11sl tlw sc•<·ond tPam 
offt•11siw li11<'. hut llll'rl' arl' st.ill 
({lll'Slio11s n•111ai11in!-( in tlw S!\C­
11111larv. Sali•ti,~s A'.lani Sa11cl1\rs 
a11d ll;•kt! C11opPr, who rPturned 
an iul.Prn•plion 4:i yards for a 
t.011d11lown i11 tlw first quart.Pr, 
arc• hnth \'Pl1•ra11 play1\l'S. Youth 
and int>XpPrinnrn plaguP tlw 
r11rnl'rhack position. 
SoplwmorP insidl' lirwbackm· ,\111l11111y lknma11, with six tack­i<'s all(] a ]4-yard intPrcPpli[ln on tlw day, was na11wd <lde11­siv<' MVI'. lknman. who hack1\d up Kory Minor tlw past two yPars. has quickly h1•1:om1i a IPadPr of' tlw young dl'li•nse. 
"IIP's a physical football play­nr that lov1•s lo play. J'w hc1\J1 around Anthony Dt•nman now l'or t.wo y1•ars and lw's 11 key l'a!'lor in that d1•fp11s1\," Davin said. 
Drop lin<•liackPr Hocky ll11i11rn11 show1•d his s1wml an<l aggr<'ssiwrwss all day, indt1d­i11i-: a 4~-yard Loui:hdow11 m1 a f11111hlc· n•covc•ry lalC' in thn 11tird ({Uartl'r. Tlw olfH'r star-l­i11g lirwlmrkn in llw 1ww 4-3 f"ormalion, llon11iP Nicks t,•d llu• 11:am in t.al'klcs 011 tlw d11y with nilli'. 
Davin said lw w11s plPas<'cl ,vith llw tl'aru's .,pring rwrl'or­111an1:1i a1Hl is (:xritcd for llw 11pco111i11g sc•ason 
"I think wp'v1i rnally madu pr1,gr.-ss in t!H· l',H"t that tlwrP's a work l'lhic and that guys arc 1loing it th1• way w1•'r1i asking thl'm to do it," said DaviP. "I tlii11k wn hav<' a 1'11,rnrP lmra11s1i of lhos,! two things." 

¦ GAME NOTES ANO QUOTES 
• Tailback Tony Fisher, who is battling Tony Driver for thfl starling job. on playing behind all-time leading rusher Autry Denson in 1998: 
"It was a big plus for me. l actually got to experience what. college football is all about by watt:hing Autry play." 
• Quarterback Jarious Jackson on t.he progress Ill' has seen from I.he inexperienced offensive lino: 
"I have confidence in thnm. We went from crumbs to bricks throughout this spring. We started off like a Chilwse fir!l d1:ill, but as you saw today, we brushed it. up a lot. I think we'll be ready for the Kansas game." 
• Coach Bob Davie on tight ond John Owens. who has emerged as a pass-catching threat with three receptions for 42 yards on Saturday: 
"He's caught everything thrown to him in tho last w<1ek of practice. He has been a good, solid blocker for us and a con­sistent performer," 
• Tight end Jabari Holloway, on the competition at tight 
end: 
"The coaches always teach us that competition brings out the best in you. With John fOwensl. Dan [O'Leary] and myself pushing each other. I think we got better this spring." 
• Davie on the offensive changes, or lack thereof, with new offensive coordinator Kevin Rogers at the lrnlm: 
"We really haven't changed a whole lot. We may run 11 lit­tle more option, we may get the ball pitched a little more on the option and w•~ may be a littlf~ morn wid1Hipm1 format.ion wise but nothing drastic." 
• 
Walk-on Tim O'Neill. a 5-foot-5-inch, 163-pound sopho­more running back, led the Gold team in rushing average with 17 yards on three carries. All of his carries ramc in the end of the game against the scout team dtifrmso. 

• 
.lunior de('ensive back Justin Smilh turrrnd in a solid r,er­forma.nco on Saturday. Tho St. Petersburg. Fla., native showed his speed by catching .Javin Hunter from behind on a 72-yard completion l'rom Arnaz Battle in the second quartor. Smith's six tackles led the Gold team. 


-
• 
..... 
-

page 4 The Observer. SPORTS Monday, Ap1-il 26, I999 
The Obser.ier/Uz Lang The Obser.ier/Kevin Dalum 
&t~ 

Monday, April 26, 1999---------------------OTHE page 13
BSERVER 

ummer Movie Preview 
,.,TARZAN" 
Comln{l Attractions: 
Director: Chris Buck Starring: Tony Goldwyn, ]une ZS Glenn Close, Rosie Bl(lDaddv 
O'Donnell and Minnie 5tarrlnq 3dam Sandfrr 
Driver 
]ulv9 
Dick
Opens June 18 
Starrt11q )(1rste11 Dun.,t and ;{{td1t'l!l' ·w1111ams 
Image courtesy of Walt_ Disney Pictures 
]u/1116 ./,/Notting Hill" 
South 'Park 
SrarrintJ l.,a,1,: ){aves. Trev 'Parka and )!(arr Sh1n,·
Director: Roger Michell 
Eves Wide Shut 
Starring: Julia Roberts and Hugh 
Srmrill!J Ntc,,/e .Ktdma11 and Tt:m, Crutsr
Grant 
,lulv23Opens May 28 Inspector Gadqet Srarrinq }d,1rrl1rn1 Broda/ck and :R..u1 1f'rr Eva,·rr The J{auntlnq 

,lu/1130 
Jlunawav Bride 
SrarrlntJ Jufi,1 .'R.,,bcrrs c111d .'R.td1.ml Car 
}v{uppets J'rom Space 
5rarrin(1 D,1Fid _;Jriructtr. ){u!k ){,,(1'7/1 ,rnd :R..,w (1,,11,1 
Xllllnq Mrs. Tln(lle 
Srarrin(1.7C,nlt' }{,,/mes ,rnd ,1 f,,J!v R.tn!11ri1!d 
AU{lUSt 13 The 13th Warrior 
Srarr/11(1 _4,11r,~111,, B,mder,rs 
./,/The Spy Who Shagged Me" 
Director: M. Jay Roach Starring: Mike Myers, Heather Graham, Robert Wagner, Seth Green and Rob Lowe 
Opens June 11 
Now this horror of attending school during summer 
vacation is by far the mosl terrifying for those in high 
school. Seeing as how almost every other type or high 

By CHRISTIAN A. PIERCE Sccnc-Movk Cricir 
Ah, sumn11~r is almost twru and lhat rneuns vaca• tion, right'! Tinw t.o t'njoy tlrn hot t.empnratttrt's, thn sounds of wuvcs crashing on the beach and the smell nf sun lun lotion dinging lo clothes. But for some, sumninr invnlvos nono or tlrnse run activitios. These aro studonts who did not pass their classes, and iu · order lo gradtw.tfi, must enroll in summer school. 
Could nnything Im morn drr.aded Lhan summer school'! Not when in high school. What a drag. sitting in a classroom while everyone else is enjoying sum­mnr. Sumnwr is ml'ant as a timP to relax, uut for au unforl111111tn few. the drudgery of hommvork contin­tws. 
school scenario has been fictionalized by Hollywood, director Carl Reiner decided to jump on the band wagon and make "Summer School." The 1987 film describes how a group of high school students aro forced to spend their summer. The last thing this group of students wants to do is take a class during Hrnir vacation, but what happens when the teacher feels the same wav? 
Enter Freddy Shoop (Mark llarmun), a high school gym tPacher or1 thp vnrgr\ nl' bt•ing fired. Shoop is n popular guy among the student body, hut not noted for his stellar teaching ability -a problem the school board wants to review. Hnther, this is n man who knows a grtiat doal about sports, so teaching a group of unenthusiastic studt111ts is going to be a bit of a challenge. This is what Heiner feels will make a grnat cunrndv. 
The ·cfass includes a wide rang{' of stercotypic·al adules.:ents. ranging from an exchange student to a football st,w. Tho sl.uctcmt.s want nothing to do with summer school, but they arc required hy the law to attend. Every teacher views these students as stupid, and if they nre unable to puss an equivalency test at tho end of their summer session the school will be forced to hold them back. Now if summer school is dreaded, imagine what these students think about 
.l.(Wild, Wild West" 
Director: Barry Sonnenfeld Starring: Will Smith, Kevin Kline and Selma Hayek 
Opens June 2 
Photo courtesy of Wamar Brothers 
repeating a year. Thus. the students and Shoop rpal­ize they must work together if they are in any way going to make the grade. 
Through his unorthodox tnaching stylfJ, Shoop bonds with these students. lie discovers that each has a gift which they could certainly contribuhi t.o tlwir community. Those students merely frdl through tho crncks somewhere along the line and have thus suf­fered academirally. In 1.:arin~ for thesti studt>nts, Shoop rediscovers his love of' touching and hdps these kids prepare for the exam. 
Understand this is by no means a critically acclainwd film. The stars arl' mainly mndiocrr tu·tors and actressos never heard from again. 11w story is extremely prndictablP and the humor is prntty moronic. Yet, I.his is still a fun litl!P '80s film Iha! almost ev<'ryono should enjoy. 
Harmon is decent as Freddy Shoop. but the lwart of this film is the student body. h1joy seeing a young Courtney Thorne-Smith ("Ally Mdkan playing thP part of Pam, a student with a erush on her tparhcr. Two of the othPr students arn horror film nuts. which definitely hoightens tlrn humor of this film. BP awarP of their numerous pranks. frequently involving fake blood and ravenous animals. Basically. this is a silly littlA film that might bf' worth s1wing wlrnn thern's nothing bolter to do on u rainy summer day. So while on vacation. relax and be mildly entertainPd by Carl Rciner's "Summer School." 
-
... 

page 14 The Observer• SPORTS Monday, April 26, 1999 
¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Sosa leads Chicago to win 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
Terry Mulholland heard a familiar voice before he'd even thrnwn his first pitch Saturday in his first start of the season for the Chicago Cubs. 
The lady bolting out the National Anthem just hap­pened to be his fiance, Kiara Hunter. 
"Just a coincidence. The (singing] schedule was set long ago." Mulholland said after the Cubs boat the New York Mets 2-0. "I've got to get her out here, more often." 
Perhaps the Cubs should send Mulholland out as a starter more oftfm. 
Ile gave the injury-ravaged staff a lift Saturday, allowing
---just seven hits in 6 1-3 innings as the Cubs posted their first shutout of the year. Sammy Sosa hit his fourth homer and his i<reat rally-snuffing catch in the eighth inning preserved the win. "We needed somebody to go out and make a start. It's pret­ty simple. really," said Mulholland, whose first seven appearances this season came in relief. "I didn't feel tired or fatigued. I struggled the first three innings, I got lucky early and then I got in a groove. I just tried to go as far as I could.'' Mulholland (1-0l made his first start since last September for a Cubs team with five pitchers currently on the dis­ab led list. And Chicago's scheduled starter Sunday, Jon Lieber. will miss that outing after being hit in the eye by a thrown ball during batting practice. He suffered no seri­ous damage to his eye. After Mulholland gave up seventh-inning walks to Rickey Henderson and John Olerud, he was replaced by Dan Serafini, who got Bobby Bonilla to hit into a double play -the third turned by the Cubs. With one out in the eighth, the Mets had first and second when Rey Ordonez hit a long 
drive to right. 
Sosa, staring into a brilliant sun .that had caused the Mets to misplay tw() fly balls Friday, ran back and then reached up and snagged the ball. llad it gone over his head. it could have tied the game. 
"After 2 or 3 in the after­noon, the sun is in your facn," Sosa said. "I lost it a little and I kept running back until the ball was out of the sun. 1 reached for it and saved the game." 
Struggling Hod Beck, the fourth Cubs reliever of the day, 
' I LOST IT A LITTLE AND I 
KEPT RUNNING BACK UNTIL THE BALL WAS OITT 
OF THE SUN. I REACHED 
FOR IT AND SAVED THE 
GAME.' 
SAMMY SOSA 
CUBS RIGIJTFfELDER 
shook off boos and pitched the ninth for his third save. It was the Cubs' first shutout since last August when Kevin Tapani and Beck combined to blank Arizona. 
The Mets stranded 12 run­ners and were shutout for the first time this year. 
"We had a lot of men on base 
but couldn't put one more hit 
together," Mets manager 
Bobby Valentine said. 
"I thought Sammy's play was 
really key. It could have been a 
tie game." 
Sosa greeted Mets reliever 
Josias Manzanillo with a long 
homer to right center against a 
10 mph wind, leading off the 
bottom of the sixth. 
The Cubs took a 1-0 lead in 
the fourth Lance Johnson led 
off with a triple for the first hit 
off Allen Watson (1-2) and 
scored one out later on Mark 
Grace's single to center. 
The Mets loaded the bases 
twice in the first four innings 
but couldn't push across a run a)<ainst Mulholland, who was aided by two double plays and a good play behind second by Mickey Morandini. Mulholland walked five and struck out three. 
Watson allowed only two hits in five innings before leaving for a pinch-hitter after suffer­ing back spasms. He is now 1­7 in nine career games against the Cubs. 
Red Sox 3 
Indians 2 
Pedro Martinez pitched a 
seven-hitter and Jason Varitek 
hit a two-run double in the 
seventh inning to lead the 
Boston Rod Sox to a 3-2 victo­
ry over the Cleveland Indians 
on Sundav. 
Martinez (4-0), who retired 
14 of the first 17 batters he 
faced, struck out 10 to bec:bme 
the second four-game winner 
in the American League. 
Martinez allowed an RBI 
single to Kenny Lofton in the 
sixth and an RBI single to Wil 
Cordero in the ninth. 
Damon Buford saved at least 
one nm for the Red Sox in the 
sixth, making a diving catch on 
Roberto Alomar's f1y ball and 
doubling Lofton off second 
base. 
Bartolo Colon, also looking 
for his fourth win, was almost 
as tough as Martinez, allowing 
one run and seven hits in six 
innings. 
Paul Shuey (2-1) started the 
seventh and allowed a one-out 
single to Mike Stanley, a walk 
to Troy O'Leary and a single to 
Buford to load the bases. 
Varitek followed with a double 
down the right-field line to 
make it 3-1. 
The Red Sox led off the game 
with back-to-back doubles to 
take a 1-0 lead. Jose Offerman 
doubled off the wall and Jeff 
Frye brought him in on a dou­
ble down the right-field line. 
Colon bailed himself out of a 
few early jams, striking out 
Frye with runners on first and 
second in the second, and 
whiffing Buford with runners 
on second and third in the . third. 

B}"TIM''~J>Y 
Sp.tl"$ Writtr ·. , 
Aftet ~(gpi,ng 6~foot-11-inc11 center lya,:rt .{(artelo last week ·an<:l cqq~nfin;tMike Monser~zandMatt,9'ti.-,roU to honor their ()(),nmitl'!ffln,ti.,, head basketball pas brQught
i~airi. ·...·..•. 
scouting "Ity)0,c . . , ....,. ... .,· f 4rin. Raynardo. 
· Gurryv;wlto.made, official visits tb ta ~1aSt we¢kend. 
. Hu "-cy'.is···<l 6.~foot-8~inch power·. ;for~ard from the Univer of Oklahoma who was rel d from his .scholar­shtp on '.Aptil 5, and Curry is a 
· 6\foot ·•· glh(guard and highschool . r, 'ea:n. s11;tn
cl beon
·one.of 
tnthe 
Q ;et AA.rules,willJ1acve to sit out ut 'in. the 2000-2001 season, .... if would team with Ka.rte1o;J999 alg East Rookie of 
· the Ye~r Troy Murphy and Harold Swanagan to boast a solid frontline: 
The Tuls.a., Okla., native said 
•he was li1;1,p);l,y .apout his visit 
and was;e · · ited about the #tl .th~•ieputa• 

;'e•. 
lijyself," said 
·~y have a real good eoa~. ng Staff and have some niceyoung players coming 
·in. A. degree from Notre Dame ·carries a1{)fofweight." 
Humph.i;ey averaged 11 points and 7.5 rebounds per game for · the SoonefS last season and led theteaffito an appearance in .the Sweet 16. As a freshman, 
· Hum ayera.ged 9.2 points g with a team­otinds, His 2.1 e as a freshman rwke thir& in the Big 12 
;confe:rt1nc~/ 
Humph:t,ey was also a star in the. cJas$'room, receiving a "stu­dent-athlete'' award as a fresh­man. .... 
A top-l<lhigh school basket­
¦ MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Doherty eyes possible slli1ees for program 
ball recruit from Booker T. Washington High School in Tulsa, Humphrey also was con­sidered .the top tight end prospect in the country but decided to concentrate his col­lege efforts on the hardwood. 
Hob Gibbons. a North Carolina re~r~.Hing analyst who often ~aw Huutp)1rey play in high school, said the player can make an immediate impact on 
the Irish. 
"He's just a tenacious player. He's ai1 excellent rebounder and he dofends well. You can compare him in a sense to Dennis Rodman, in the way he can rebound and get position." said Gibbons. "He's not neces­sarily a great scorer, although he can give you double digits in botµ poitjts and rebounds." 
HuJl1phr¢y is familiar with fJoh~rty through the Big 12 wheri the two were at Oklahoma and Kansas, respec­tively. OJ.it of high school, Humphrey chose the Soonors over the Jayhawks. 
Gibbons said Humphrey visit­ed Kansas during his stay at Oklahoma. 
"He would regularly go to Lawrence for basketball games. so I know that he is w~ry famil­iar with Matt Doherty," said 
··Gibbons.· "It· would not surprise me if he chose Notre Dame. That would be a tremendous catch for the Irish." 
Humphrey visited Pittsburgh, his brother's alma mater, last week. and is also considering Kentucky and UCLA. It is still unclear when he plans to make his decision. 
Curry is the lesser known of the two but would bring much needed quickness and defensive pressure to the Irish. A native of Memphis. Tenn., Curry aver­aged 19 points per game this past season·at EastHigh School. 
He was named All-County and All-Metro for his performance. He would backup junior Martin lnglesby and would provide depth at a thin point guard posi­tion ifhe joins the Irish squad. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.rri. All classifieds must be p_repaid. .
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 1 he Observer reserves the nght to ed1t all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES WANTED
II 
SUMMER JOB working with Looking for a really great summer my two autistic sons using sitter for 3 really great kids! behavior modification. Flexible hours with perks! Call Ruth Training Provided. Possible 277-6697. work for next semester. Call Pam @ 273-2761 Are you going to be at Duke tor the 
1999-2000 academic year? 16m looking for a roommate Call Sarah
,,. 
ILOST & FOUNDI
at 243-1731. 
Lost: 100 CDs that were in a black Caselogic carrying case. Lost in FOR RENT Lafortune the night of 2/26/99. Monetary reward being offered if BED 'N BREAKFAST found. No questions asked. REGISTRY Please call Brian at 4-1126 w/ any 219-291-7153 info 
STAYING IN SOUTH BEND FOR Large, double pocket L. L Bean THE SUMMER??? backpack w/ Pietasters patch. $50 Lovely five-bedroom, single family 
-
cash reward if returned w/contents. house available for sub-lease. No questions asked. About a mile lroni campus. call 634-1061 Safe neighborhood. Clean. Two 
window air-conditioners Lost Glasses: black, metal, Washer and dryer, stove, refrige. oval, Safilo frames, clip on Call 634-0562 for info. sunglasses; black case. If found call Paul @ 4•4765 2 bdrm w/loft condo in Oak Hill. 
Close to campus. Fpl, pool. Avail. I KNOW YOU'RE OUT THERE! 6/1. Grad. students only please. My blue l.L. Bean backpack was $700/mo lostistolen in parking lot 1·509·926-8118. bit Lyons & Morrissey. Please call 4-2900 to return it; REWARD based on what's still in it. Thank you! Walk lo school 
All size homes Found: Starting at 185/monthiperson Insulin kit with glucometer in MMMRENT ALS@aol.com Lafortune. Go to Health Center to 232-2595 claim. 
3-6 BDRM HOMES. SUMMER OR I NEED GRAD TICKETS! FALL.FURN. STARTING CALL KELL Y-243-8932 
FOR SALE
$185/mo/person 272-6551 I NEED graduation tickets 
RENT NEGOTIABLE! NEW Rates Phone Cards Please call John @271-B531 2 bclrm 2 bath upper level @ col-282 min. $20 call 258-4805 
lege park to sublet for summer. Washer/dryer. Call Joann @ 634-1980 Triumph convertible 3620. $3,500 (277-2684) 
House For Rent. Walk to Campus!! 4-5 Bedroom. Summer or Fall. Call 289•4712 
3 BDRM.DUPLEX 1 MILE FROM CAMPUS 503 EDDY ST. APPLIANCES + W/D 273·8332 
3 BR House. Complete Remodel-Great Area. 1 mile to ND. AVAIL 5/1 to 8/1/99. Call 273-1717 
OFF CAMPUS HOUSING.. FALL 1999 4·6 STUDENTS ...SEVERAL CLEAN.SAFE PROPERTIES.. CALL DAVE AT 291-2209 
OFF CAMPUS HOUSING FALL 1999 .SMALL HOUSE PERFECT FOR TWO STUDENTS.. SHORT DRIVE TO CAMPUS. DAVE 291-2209 
COUCH/CHAIR 272-6551 
BRAND NEW 
S 0 F A 
4 
SALE! 
Forest Green and Beige Full Size Sofa, from Brooks Brother's Furniture Store, including matching pillows, is great for any single or for any apartment. Price is very nego­tiable. Must sell soon! A!sc, Forest Green and Beige Carpet piece. cut 4 a single, that matches the sofa perfectly, is for sell! (Loft kit perfect for a single is also available, along with a University Ethernet Card!) SENIOR CAN'T WAIT TO GR ADU­ATE-EVERYTHING MUST GO!l!!!l!!!!!l!I Contact x1549 and leave message 
90" Couch 271-8078 
Entertainment center, bookshelves, desk, twin bed Graduating seniors must sell Call 243-2856 
PERSONAL 
Fax it fast at THE COPY SHOP in LaFortune. FAX Sending and Receiving : 631-FAX1 
THE LAST REGULAR ISSUE OF THE OBSERVER IS WEDNES­DAY, APRIL 28. THE COMMENCEMENT ISSUE WILL BE ON FRIDAY. MAY 14. 
I NEED graduation tickets please call me @ 271-8531 
MOVING? LET US HELPl 
t piece to a house full. 286-7094 
Any sr.(s) looking 4 a rmmate in Chicago? Cati Mike 247-9035 
THE FLORIDA EVANS SHOWBAND AND REVUE 
17songcd IS HERE!II! 
$5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 $5 availatlle at LaFortune info desk and in some dorms. 
See www.nd.edu/-mcurreri/cd .htm or 
OAKHILL email curreri. 1 @nd edu
TICKETS
Two bedroom loll apartment -for details. 
277-6780 
• --­
UPWARD BOUND PROGRAM The University of Notre Dame Dorm staff and Licensed Instructors needed for 6 wks. Funded by U.S. Dept. of Education. Send resume & cover letter to the Department of Human Resources, Campus Security Bldg., Notre Dame, IN 46556. EEO/AA Employer. 
ADOPTION-So. Cal. cple looking to adopt newborn. Love outdoorslanimals,stable,devoted & financially secure. Will help wlexpenses.Can provide comfort.support & understanding.Process legal & confidential.Call toll tree (1-888) 756-0667 pin #4195 Ka rynn/Chris 
To the women of Lyons Hall 2B: You guys rock. Especially those of you on chapel wing. And Celia. 
Sup, all? 
Are you moving to Duke and look­ing for a roommate? Call Sarah at 243-1731. 
Do you hav e something to say? Do you want your voice heard for free? Stop by the basement of South Dining Hall at 4 in the morn­ing and we will le\ you finish up \he work!! 
• ----. ----· -------------,J 
Monday, April 26, 1999 The Observer• PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 1S 
· 

HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES 
Promoting Growth in: 
Service Simple Lifestyle Spirituality Community Living 
Placements at: 
Phoenix, AZ Hayward (Bay Area), CA Colorado Springs, CO Brockton (Boston Area), MA Portland, OR Wilkes Barre, PA Others as we grow! 
HCA is a year-long volunteer program in six cities across the United States. Now in our 22nd year, and with 3 5 recent college grads, HCA is inviting individuals to apply for our '99/'00 program year. 
Applications and interviews can be picked up at the Center for Social Concerns, and at the HCA Office at Moreau. 
For more inf onnation, contact: 
Holy Cross Associates PO Box 668, Notre Dame IN 46556 Phone: 631-5521 Fax: 631-6813 
. 
E-mail: nd.hcassoc. l@nd.edu http://www.nd.edu:80/r--Jhcassoc/ 
-
4. 
.,. 
... 
page 16 
¦ Mm'S LACROSSE" 
Dusseau leads Irish past Minutemen, 9-7 
Observer Staff Report 
Senior ro-raptain Chris Dusscau raised his career high for goals in a game to six as the No. 15 !rish men·s far.rosse team defeated lhe University of Massasschusctts for the first tinrn in fivo games, 9-7. 
After the Minutemen jumped out to a 1-0 lead, Dusseau responded with four unan­swered goals. The first came with three minutes and 17 scc­
onds remaining in the first quarter off of a pass from sophomore attackmnn Tom Glatzel. 
Dusseau then Iit the sco.re­
board throe times in the second 
quarter to send the lrish into 
halftime leading 4-1. 
Sophomore John Madigan 
pulled tlrn Minutemen within 
two on a goal with eight min­
utes and six seconds remaining 
in the third quarter. 
Madigan 's goal triggcrecl another Irish scoring spurt as th<'V found tlw back of tlrn ne.t thr.ce times in less than six 
minutes. 
Chris Young started the scor­ing with an unassisted goal 28 seconds after Madigan's goal. Dusscau got his fifth of the day before Brad Owen pushed the lead to five. 7-2. with two min­utes and 4:9 seconds remaining in the third quarter. 
Madigan picbid up a hat trick with two more third quar­ter goals but the Irish still lerl after three. 7-4. 
Dusseau picked up hi.s career-high sixth goal of the game early in lhe fourth quar­ter. The goal gave him his team-leading 29 of th<' yPar and ties his previous career high for goals in a season. Dusseau has led the Irish in goals each of his first three seasons. 
Irish attackman David Ulrich 
also picked up a fourth-quartnr 
goal while the l\1inutr~mfln tal­
lied three of their own as the 
Irish cruised tu victorv. 
Irish goalie Kirk Ho\voll made 
13 saves betwer,n the pipes. 
Ilowell has stoppPd more than 
10 shots in eight or Notre 
Still Cute and Smiling at Age 20 (May 6) 
Happy Birthday, Jim 
Love, Mom and Dad 

Finals...done. Graduation...done. Packing and shipping...ugh! No problem. Call Mail Boxes Etc. 
... 


Notre Dame 
Stepan Center Basketball Courts May 3rd -8th May 12th -15th May 17th Lyons Hall May 5th -8th 
St. Mary's College 
LeMans Hall
r ­
Campus Hours of
Main Lobby 
f Operation
May 5th -7th 10am -5pmMay 14th 

$1.00 Off  II  Free Pick Up  
UPS Shipping  Please call tor appointment.  
(Per Box)  Pick up is. free. but no discoun~s will be  
accepted.  

277-6245 
Corner of S.R. 23 & Ironwood• 2 Blocks East of N.D. · 
The Observer• SPORTS Monday, April 26, 1999 
·__::__c~----------------­
Try using The
Got something to say? 
Observer classifieds. 
Chili Cook-off & Bluegrass Music Festival 

ATTENTION JUNIORS, SENIORS & 5TH YEARS ITO BEJ 
RESIDENT ASSISTANTS NEEDED: 
Holv Cross College is looking tor afew good men and women·to serve as RAs. 
Mature men and women are needed in a coed environment of freshmen and sophomores in a program of approximately 164 resident students. 
Live across the street from Notre Dame while being an RA. 
The successful candidate will receive room and board and the satisfaction of assisting young men and women as they begin their college careers. 
Holy Cross College is a two-year, liberal arts college with atransfer-intent curriculum and apopulation of approximately 500 students. 
If interested, please contact: 
Mr. Chris Ruhe Director of Residence Life Holy Cross College P.O. Box 308  *  IIOLY CROSS  
Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-8409  COLI~EGE  
cruhe@hcc-nd.edu  Right for you. Right from the start.  

Hours: M-F: 9am -7pm • Sat: 1Oam -6pm
--.--..----· ·-------.--.--.---_-_-__,___--_-_-_---.-~ u-------------------------------..... 
Monday, April 26, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 17 
¦ BASEBALL 
Notre Dame maintains lead atop Big East standings 
Spedal to The Oh,erver 
Senior .JclT Wagner's 49tb earner home run !wiped Notrn Dmmi win the opi•mir or Us Saturday doublnhcadcr against Seton 111111, 8-7. hut Snton llall rodn Urn strnng pitching of' junior righthandrr Cameron lisslingnr tu win l110 nightcap. 7-1. 
The Irish maintairwd tlwir cushion over sncond-placn HulgPrs (14-!'il atop the Big East standings. as the Knights split their douh!nhoadtir with l'ourth-place l'rovidnncn. 
s,~ton I lall pick,id up a crucial victory in its qunst for orw o/' six Big East tourna­rmmt spots. With 1dghl gamns lnl't to µlay, th1• l'irat1•s main!iti1wd fifth µlac1', but four lc>allls Villanova. Pittsbuq{h. C111I1H!l'lin1l and Wma Virginia -nHnain 011 t.lw lwi•ls o!' S1•lo11 llall. 
Wagrll'r's thr,\c-run shol in the l'if'th innin!-f of the opmwr gavn tlw Irish an 8-4 lr•ad. Tlrn runs µrovod <Ttwial when Sr)ton I !all rnllind with a run i11 the sixth and two in tho s1•v1~11th. 
Wagrwr arldcd an HBI groundout in the night cap, giving him 83 carmir HBI in Big Fast rngular-s1•ason ganws and a sharP of the Big Easl n)cord. Ile rr.ached the record-tying total in his 69th career Big East rngular-snason game. Wagner also has 24 home runs in Big East regular-soa­son play, s1!cond in Big East history. 
Sophomorn righthander Aaron llcilman (8-2l pickncl up tlw win in the opnner, allowing snven runs (six earned) on 11 hits and one walk over six and two-Lhirds innings. llcilrnan's six strikeouts gave him 81 for the season, ranking ninth in lhfi Irish record book and just 27 shy of the rncord, with at least five full starts rnmaining. 
.Junior righthander John Corbin strug­gled to get the final out of the opener while posting his ninth save of the season, one shy of Mike Cotfoy's record total from the 1989 Irish season. Corbin gave up a hit and a walk before striking out pim;h hilter Damon Ponce dPLeon to end Lhe game. 
S1mior lefty John Probst (3-3) took llrn loss, allowing eight runs on 10 hits and four walks, with three strikeouts. Esslingnr (4-2) turmid in a strong effort that includnd eight strikeouts and 14 groundouts. Esslinger allowed the lono Irish rnn in the second inning. while scat­tering ninn hits over his no-walk, 111­pitch outing. 
Irish senior, righthander Alex Shi!liday (2-3) took the loss, allowing five runs (three earned I on seven hits and two walks over seven and one-third innings, with six strikoouts and 13 groundouts. 
On Sunday. the Irish clinched a lop-four Big East finish. beating the Pirates 17-8. .Junior righthunder Scott Cavey came nff the bnnch to turn in his second impressive outing of the week. The Irish ofTense dom­inated with 18 hits. 

The Observer/Liz Lang The Irish clinched a spot in the Big East Tournament with their wins over Seton Hall. Notre Dame took the first game of Saturday's doubleheader and won Sunday's contest. 

0 
0 

THE HARDEST DECISION YOU'LL EVER MAKE. 
I{ 1ght ll<'W «t l~u rg,·r K111\.;' n·staurant~. y11u can gt't ;1 l,·gn1d;1ry \V HO I' l'E R' 
"' ,kit,1P11; II I(; Kl N<; · ,;111dw ich.1,lus mc,lium fno ;incl .1 ~oft Jrrn k, for 011 ly $2 (J<J. N, ,w w,· knto\\' ir s h.,rJ to dion~c: h,·twc.:n tlw \V tH 11'1' f~ R' and the· BIG KIN,;; h111 I h111k (If li th1, way: Eithn way, you 011·1 !-:" wn,n~ 
H,e Huddle. Lafortune Siuden1 Cen1er 
BURGER 
KING 
It just tastes better. 
www bur\Jf"~"'9 com 
Happy 19th Idiot 

From The Future Idiot Quad 
ATTENTION CLASS OF 99 
YOUR NEW YORK APARTMtNT IS AT 

MAY OCCUPANCY 212-217-9999 
99 John Street
ti)
et.'.'="I tt ROCKROSE New York, New York 
,, 
;; , 
LIVE RIGHT DOWNTOWN 
Manhattan's Most Stylish Art Deco Building Is Now Downtown's Beautiful New Rental 
Studios, 1, 2, 3 & 4 Bedrooms 
Starting from $1,450 
Special apartments with home offices, several with terraces MANY IDEAL FOR SHARING 
, UJl"ll)limentary Filne5s Center 
• 0,-Site Business Center (conference room, CXXl"fXllers, fax o-id copier) 
• 
241-b.Jr AHeiided Lobby 

•
CNersized Windows 

•
Totally wired b-the New Millenivm 

• 
S1eps lo Wall Sireet, 1he Financial District and South S1reet Seaport 


VISIT OUR WEBSITE TODAY AND RESERVE YOUR NEW NEW YORK HOME 
www.99iohn.com 
NO FEE 
-
... 
.. 
page 18 The Observer• SPORTS Monday, April 26, 1999 
¦ Mrn's BASKETBALL 
Former ND coach dies from cancer 
Observer Scaff Report 
Former Notre Dame basket­ball coach Johnny Dee passed awav from cancer early Satu~day morning at lhfl age of 75. 
DeB coachr.d tlrn Irish from 1964 to 1971, compiling a 116-80 r!'cord. fn his last four seasons. he won 83 while los­ing only 33. 
OeH. who played both foot­ball and basketball for the Irish before transfering to Loyola of Chicago for his senior year, coached in the Chic>ago high schools before becoming an Irish assistant under Johnny Jordan in 1951. 
During his ·coaching time. he attended Notre Dame Law School at nights. earning his degree in 1952. 
Alabama hired Dee away from Notre Dame in 1952. Dee coached the Crimson Tide for 
University Laundry and Tanning 
1813 South Bend Ave. Campus Shoppes Shopping Center 
FREE Dryers all of May!!!!
.. 
-
four years, winning 68 games and a Southeast Confernnce title. 
With Jurdan's departure in 1964, De!' returnt'd to his alma mater. In his seven sea­sons at Notre Dame, his most famous coaching incident came in his last. 
!'laying Kentucky in Freedom Hall. Dee refused to play with Wildcats if balls that fca tured the signature of for­mer Kentucky couch Adolph Hupp were used. When balls were found without the signa­ture, Dee agreed to play the game. The Irish went on to Will 99-92. 
SUMMER JOM IN 
IRELAND 
CALii 
1--E100-933.;;3~az•·· wees11:1Ei······ 
www.g1obdl~<iti:idrii.. 
Accommoootfon·pRoul&;b 
Call r.,s OR,DIJP'* thr:1.ougb tbeweb ,zfgbtawaif'! 
Got sports? Call the Sports Department at 1-4543. 

r 
I 
I 
I 

I Discount One-WayI Moves 
I 
Getting a year's worth of stuffinto a car is like trying to 
RYDER 
cram 10 pounds into a S-pound sack. You've crammed 
"TRS 
enough for a while. Give yourself a break. Call Ryder and truck it-at the right price. 
www.yellowtruck.com 
Advanced reservation required. Present this coupon at )he time of your rental. 
, 
Coupon only applicable to basic rate of truck rental, which does not include taxes, fuel and optional items. One coupon per rental. Coupon subject to truck availability and Ryder Moving Services standard rental requirements. Coupon expires December 31, 2000. 
Coupon not valid with any other offer, discount or promotion. 
1-800-GO-RYDER 
. Ryder• ls a registered trademark of Ryder System, Inc. and ls used under license. 
Note to Dealer: 1. Enter discount on rates screen. 2. Enter Coupon I.D. on payment screen. NC030 
L 3. Attach to rental agreement and send in with weekly report. RA Number_____ 
.J 
)' ::: 
:•,,:: :·
<.' ··•··· .. ··· .. ·•· .• 

s10:I 
Off I 
Local 
Moves I 
I 
Buy themattthe LaFortune Info Desk 


playoffs against Sharks 
Ayacht for the price of a dinghy. 

Now you can get it all without paying for it all. Because the PowerBook® G3 -is more affordable than ever (see below). Awesome Pentium-crushing power.* Massive 14.1" screen. Endless adaptibility. All of which can help you work faster and more efficiently. Leaving you more time to stop and smell the ocean breeze. Come in and test the waters. 
PowerBook® G3 prices have been slashed up to $700 with prices starting at $1799.00 Available Now. 
Call now for Apple's special ND srudent offers 1 OIT Solutions Center Room 112 Computing/Math Bldg Phone: (219) 631-7477 (I for sales) 
Apple Education Store: www.apple.com/education/store Au1horizcd 1.800.780.5009 Value Added Reseller 
Olffl Applct:ompuh..1. Inc. AU finhl~ rl"!\i.:!'Vtd 11jj1plc, d.c A41ph: k11.f.1., Jntl 1'011er1111ok .ire 1rJ1.k•n1.1rlt:i nf AJ,1~<: Om1pu1cr, lnc.. rr~1crl'll m1hc U$.A. and orhcr t1.1Umrit.~ •11..1.fu,mam."l.' (rn1pmllls :an: lu,;ciJnn m11;~ l.11c11,1.-r u::«. 
*BrandNeW Main-McKinley Self-Storage
707 E. McKinley Ave. Mishawaka, IN 46545 
<,,· 

Conveniently Located 
Netre Dame 
Si Saint Mary•s 
256-5339 
Excellent security! 

-video surveillance -24 hr. access to your unit 
Heated & air-conditioned units: great for storing computers & electronics! 
Associated Press 
SAN JOSE, Calif. 
Patrick Roy stopped 42 shots and Joe Sakic had two goals and an assist as the Colorado Avalanche beat the San Jose Sharks 3-1 Saturday night, tak­ing the first game of the playoIT series postponnd because of the massacre at Columbino High School outside of D{mver. 
The first two games of the series were supposed lo have been played Wednesday and Th_ursday nights in Denver. But, in response to the tragedy, the start or the series was post­poned until Saturday night in San Jose. 
The extended layoff aftnr the regular season did not dampen the intensity on either side, but the Avalanc.he had the edgo. 
Roy, who claimed his 400th career victory earlier this sea­son, had his 100th playoIT victo­ry, an ongoing NHL record. 
Former Shark Sandis Ozolinsh added a goal and an assist for Colorado, which finished in sec­ond place in the Westnrn Conference behind Dallas. 
Sakic scored his 36th earner playoff goal and the first of the series with a hard shot from the right point that got past Sharks goalie Mike Vernon 16:1 h into the lirsl p11riod. The goal carrw on a power play us San .Josn right wing Joe Murphy serrnd a pnnalty for goaltm1dnr intnrfor­ence. 
Colorado went up 2-0 with 
5:21 left in the second pnriod on Ozolinsh's power play goal that he rebounded off of Vernon. Ozolinsh leapt into the air affor watching the puck hit the back of Vernon's nel. 
Sakic, who led Colorado with 41 goals during the regular.sea­son, scored his sncond goal al 
2:26 into the third p('riod, taking a pass from Milan l lejd,uk and b11ating Vnrnon from ilrn corner of the crease. 
The Sharks avoided tlrn shutout 14:05 into llrn third period with a power-play goal against Roy, who until then looked unbeatable. 

Why lug your stuff across campus? 

B~~ESPLUS 
Call 277-5555 for free pick up at your roon1 -on or off-ca1npus. Boxes Plus • the lower priced shipper• 5622 Grape Road -Wilshire Plaza 
Bring your belongings and this ad to Boxes Plus and receive a 10% discount. 
Classes are starting now! 
Call today to reserve your seat. Sign-up Here, STUDY ANYWHERE! 
With over 160 Kaplan Centers to choose from, you can start a class here and finish over the summer. 
Class starts May 5 

-;;--­
Int d leader 
est Pre11
-----=-::_
1 ·800-KAP·TEST 
www.kaplan.com 
·LSAT Is a registered trademark ol the Law School Admission Council. 
60 YEARS OF BUILDING FUTURES. ONE SUCCESS STORY AT A TIME. 
I 
-
.. 
.,. 
-

page 20 The Observer• WOMEN'S TENNIS Monday, April 26, 1999 
-

NOTRE DAME \i\lOMEN'S TENNIS 1999 BIG EAST CHAMPIONS 
JAY LOUDERBACK 1999 BIG EAST HEAD COACH OF THE YEAR 

The Observer/Kevin Dalum 
Senior Marisa Valasco won her match at No. 3 singles to help lead the Irish to another Big East title. 
Velasco remains perfect at Big East 
By WES JACOBS Sports Writer 
CORAL GABLES, Fla. 
As Syracuse's Miki Kanemitsu walked up to accept her Most Outstanding Player award for the Big East tournament following Notre Dame's exciting win over the Miami Hurricanes, any Irish fan could only wish someone else was getting that award. 
Someone like Marisa Velasco. 
After all the heroics the senior pulled off at this and past, she seemed the natural choice to win the award. She has owned her Big East competitors. In her four years competing in tennis, Velasco has posted a 
9-0 singles record, including a 3-0 record this year. Four of these wins have come in championship matches. Sunday, Velasco's victim was Marcy Hora, whom she defeated 6-3, 7-6, (7-5), in veteran form. 
After Velasco lost the chance to close out the match leading 5-2 in the final set, she did not quit. S}le simply stepped up her game a notch, continuing to pound away with her groundstrokes and tough net play, and in the end pulled out the match. 
"I don't know, I guess I usually do well here [in the Big East tournament]. In big games, I step up my level of play," said Velasco. "I think that as the year goes on I do better. The more I play, the better I play." 
In addition to Velasco's great Big East record, she also boasts a 5-1 record in NCAA team competitions. winning her last five. 
Last year, she won three huge matches in the regional, helping her team ndvance, further that Velasco steps it up in big matches. 
With a three-week break until NCAA regionals, the San Diego native and marketing major will work hard in practice. Every player will have to be on top of her game, for Notre Dame to advance toward their first women's tennis champi­onship. 
This year's NCAAs will be Velasco's last shot at glory. With this in mind, she is verv confident about Notre Dame's chances against the country's best. 
"We're really confident right now. I think we're going to have a good regional and hopefully move on to nationals," said Velasco. "Right now, we're really strong all the way down the lineup. We feel that we can compete with anyone in the country." 
Tennis 
continued from page 24 
Kim Guy gave up one game, winning 6-1, 6-0. In doubles, Michelle Dasso and Hall pre­vailed 8-2, and Lindsey Green and Kelly Zalinski won 8-1. 
Winning easily. lri:;h players hurried their matches in order to be part of tho 4-0 score and to get their statistics into the official scorebook. 
"A match like this is tough because you want to go fast to get your mat<'h in," said Guy. "You can't go too fast, though, because you'll lose your focus. If you just stay focused on win­ning, you·11 be fine." 
Satnrdav. Notre Dame beat the 4th-seeded Syracuse, 4-0, with singles wins coming from Velasco 6-1, 6-4, Varnum 6-3, G-2, and Green 3-6, 6-4, 6-0. In doubles, Varnum/Velasco won 8-4 and Green/Zalinski won 8-2. 
Jen Hall sat out singles play to rest her sore back for Sunday. which forced everyone to movo up a spot in the rota­tion. This enabled Syracuse to stay in their matches, but it wasn't nearly enough. 
''This was closer than a 4-0 match," said head coach Jay Louderback. "With Jen out. it made a big difference. Our players are going to need to be ready to step up into situations like this. It's good to get the win, though." 
Doubles started· the match on Sunday, and the Irish quickly found themselves in a 0-1 hole before singles began. Varnum and Velasco quickly fell behind in their match, and found themselves in a 2-5 hole. They were not able to recover, losing 4-8 to the team of Katie Bogomolova and Alanna Broderick at No. 2 doubles. 
No. 3 was a different story, as the team of Zalinski/Green dominated throughout to defeat Miami's team of Eva Jimenez and Meredith Laughlin 8-3. 
Tied at one win apiece, the doubles point came down to the No. 1 match of Notre Dame's Dasso/Hall versus Lioudmila Skavronskaia and Marcy Hora. Although well played by Dasso and Hall, Miami's duo was spectacular. hitting big shot after big shot, taking an 8-6 win. 
"We can almost always count on No. 1 (Dasso/Hall), to come up with the big win, and they played well enough today, but those other two girls just 
Notre Dam.e4 Miami2 
Singles 
No. I: Dasso (NDJvs. K~'litoQsk.diaIUM) 4-6, 7-6(4), 5-1, abandMid No. 2: Hall (ND) def Bogomolova. (UM} S-7, 6-1, 6-4(ND) No. 3: Velasco (NO) def. Hora {OM} 6-3, 7-6 (5) No. 4: Varnum (ND) def.Jimenez(l.iM) 6-16-4 No. 5: Zalinski (ND) def. Broderick (UM) 
6-2, 6-3 No. 6: Laughlin!UMi def. Green (ND) 7-6 (2), 6-2 
Doubles 
No, I: Hom/Skavronskaia{UM) def. Dasso/Hall (ND) 8-6 No. 2: Rogomolova/8roderick (UM) def Vamum/\'dasco(ND) 8-4 No..l: Grccn/Zalinski (ND) dct: JimcnCJ,~,aughlin(llM) 8-3 

played out of their heads," said Irish freshman Nina Vaughan. 
Singles was an entirely differ­ent story. From the get-go, the Irish were in control of their matches, at one point in the first set leading all six of the individual sets. 
Becky Varnum set the tone for Notre Dame, quickly dispos­ing of Jimenez 6-3, 6-4 at No. 
3. Varnum's relentless return of her weak groundstrokes eventually put her over the top. 
"She [Jimenez] played exactly to the style of play I wanted to see today," said Varnum. "I was able to hit her balls on the rise and tire her out." 
Notre Dame then took a 2-1 lead when Kelly Zalinski took care of business, defeating Broderick 6-2, 6-3, at No. 5. 
Things got interesting when Velasco looked to give Notre Dame a commanding 3-1 lead, only one point away from the magic number of four. She lead Hora 6-3, 5-2. and had match point at 40-30 on Hora's serve, but couldn't put the match away. Hora came back to send the '6et into a tiebreaker, which Velasco finally won, 7-5. 
After Lindsey Green lost at No. 6 to Miami's Meredith Laughlin, Notre Dame held a precarious lead, needing just one more win to close the match. With No. 1 and No. 2 both in their respective third sets, the championship was still up for grabs. 
Dasso won a tiebreaker to even up her match with Miami's heavy hitter Skavskia. At No. 2, 1-Iall stormed back to win the second set 6-1 against Katie Bogomlova, after losing the first 7 -6. 
With Dasso leading Skavronskaia 5-1 in the set of' her match, Hall prevailed 6-4, locking up the championship for the Irish. 
"I felt like I should've won the first set, so I knew that I could come back. I just hung in there and was able to finally close one out," said Hall. 
The only task left for the Irish to conquer is the NCAA cham­pionship. They begin their quest in two weeks with the Midwest regional. 
If they win, they will be flown back to Florida to battle the final 16 teams in the nation. 

Kelly Valinski defeated Miami's Alanna Broderick 6-2, 6-3 at No. 5 singles in Sunday's finals. 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum 

Monday, April 26, 1999 
Net 
continued from page 24 
huI brok1• l~Prman·s StffVP and then ht'ld 10 t.akl' th,• niatrh <1-2, 3-7, 7-5 and to dinrh th1• dmmpionship. 
.. I play1•d him a month ago in th<l n•gol11r SPason and had so11w trou-, hit•." said Tahorga. "l11~·s a very t'asl play,·r a11d runs all owr Llw court and lights. fights, lights. You always hav11 lo hf' 011 top and if y()u !tit up f'tff a s1·1:011d. hi' takt'.s ov1·r tlw nui:tch. 1-'11rl1111al1~ly, I was nbln to come had." 
Tnborga·s virtory compllllt\d the Irish comPbad,. 
A!'t.Pr 1lroppi11g llw doublns point with lossPS at No. 2 and No. :1, Notni Damp storuwd hack to win !'our sin­g!Ps m;Ll.dll·s and dnny Miami its third-straight Big 1•:ast tith 
"l was disappointl'd with our lnvd of play at tloublt\s, hut I camn out and fought hard this aftPrnoon," said Bayliss. "l•:V('ll the guys that lost, I have a lot of rm,ptH'.l for." 
Miami's No. 2 doubles team ol' BPrman and !\rpacl Odry dcl'calcd Talwrga and Millor, 8-6. whilo thn llurrirn1w's No. :-i dun of' Halph llilt and Joso Liuht>rnHtll knockod off Matt DILiy uncl'Casny Smith. 8-6. 
Daly knotted the malch at one apiHc1\ with a clorninating 6-1, 6-:; vic­tory over Miami's Jamin Thompson. 
"Jamin was orw or the top 10 play­Prs in tlw country in tlrn junior ranks, hut I thought Mntt could bm1t him," Bayliss said. "Malt matches up well 
Young talent keys victory 
By P.RIAN KESSLER 
Sport., l'dicor 
COHAI. (;;\Bl.ES, Fla. 
With s1rnior Brian Patterson out with a ton injury, the top­s1'1•dPd Notn• llamn nwn's ten­nis !Pam lookl'd to lhP youngr,r playNs lo pick up tlw slack at this w1•1•knnd's Big East 1:hampi1111ship. 
Tlw undPrclassnrnn rnspond­Pd with some improssive play, lifting Uw Irish to its first Big 1•:ast litln in lhrtH1 y<1ars with a 4-:i victory ov1!r second-seed­I'd Miami. 
"Our frnshnwn played with a lol of pois1! today," said head coach Boh Bayliss, who was 11a11wd Big East coach of" the y(•ar l"or tlw s1\cotHl-c·onsncu­li v n snason. "To see Casey ISmithl and .Javier !Taborgal win thosP tough ones in Lim third Sl!l -Boy, it's pretty 
SWlH~l. 11 
Smith lost just onn snt all WPt!kc•mi mi rnut1\ to a perfect :{-0 rnrnrcl at No. 4 singles. In llw f'inals. Smith dropped the first st•L 4-(, to Miami's Jost! 1.i1•l>l'rman, hut took Lt11• scc­olld and lhird SPts 7-5, 7-5 to tiP thP malC"h al lhn•f' and S<!t tlw stag<' for Talrnrga. 
Tahorga, who iillnd in at No. f, singlt>s, improvl'd his rncord lo 4-0 on Liu• sPason with a clra111atil' <,-2, 5-7. 7-5 vit:tory ovt•r .lol'I BPrman to 1·linch thi• 111ufch and lhr• drnmpionship. 
"You liaVI' lo gi\l' Casey and .lavit•r a lot of 1-rPdil," said j u11 ior ,,\ II -A Ill Pr i<' a 11 Hvan 'sad,irl'. "Both ol' tlll'lll J"Oliglll Hs hard .is a11yo111' ran fight. You havl' lo gi\l' rrt·dit lo tlwir oppollPllls, too. It wns just two uni>(•liPvalJIP matclll's. 1:ortu11a1t•ly, WP won both of' tlw111 1111d {vl'rP ah!P to pull it 
Olli." . 
Smit.Ii was solid at do11bi1's as w<d I, posting a 2-I n•cord ,villi tPammatP Matt Daly. Tho duo losl just 0111' ga11w over !ht> first two days, hPl"orn droppi11g a <,-8 ·match to Mia111i's l.il'llf'rman und Halph !lilt in till' finals. 
"It's lw1•11 int1•1·r,sting at dm1­hl1•s, playing with Ii\aron] Talarirn an<I now Daly." Smith said. "Playing doubks in gPn­
era! helps, and I think Daly and I played really well logt)lhllr." 
While the f"rnshmen may have stole the spotlight, it was Sachirn's steady play that paced Uw 31st-ranked Irish throughout llrn tournament. 
"Hvan's been a rock for us all y~rnr," Bayli~s said. "I don't mean to put any pressure on him. but we've come to just count on his match." 
Sachire, ranked third in the country in singles, entered the tournament with just a 1-2 all­tinrn record at the Big East Championship. 
Sachire, however, W(lllt a pnrfoct 3-0 in singles, earning the tournamr.nt's most out­standing player award. 
"It's an honor to get this award; there were a lot of' good pl ayers in th is tourn a­m en t," said Sachire, who defoated Miami's Arpad Odry 

The Observer/Joe Stark Junior Ryan Sachire earned the tournament's most outstanding play­er award after going undefeated al No. 1 singles. 
against him. Jamin cmmts on hitting inners, but Matt's very f'asl and runs that nxtru ball down. I'm not sur­prisl'd lrn on, but I'm a little surprised how dncisive it was." 
/\l No. I Hvan Sachirc, !.hP tourna­mcn l's mos·t outstanding playiir, defoatnd Odry in straight-sets, 7-5, 6­
:1 . 
"I think both of us were affected by Urn lwat, but I played real hard and wPII enough to win," Sachire said. 
Miami's Johan Lindqvist dnfeated Andrew Lallin, (,-2, <,-4 at No. :i sin­gles and tlw llurricane's took a J-2 lt•ad with Mark Arrowsmilh's straight-set win over Andy Warford. 
Smith, however, lied the match at Lhr1)1Htll with a 4-h, 7-5, 7-5 comn­rrnm-behind victory. In the third set, Smith held at 5-5 and brokn 1.inbcrman's serve at 6-5 to win his match. 
Taborga llwn sealed the Irish win wlwn lforman's return wPnt long. 
"W11 worked really hard all year and t() see them cramping and dying in the third sot in the 95-degree heat and our ability to hang in there in thmrn conditions lends some validity to the hard work we've been doing all year," Bayliss said. 
Notn) Dame advanc,~d to the finals a rwwa11w•--~ 4-0 victory over eighth-seeded Roston College on Friday and a 4-0 win over f'il'th-s!loded Hutgcrs in Saturday's se111ili11als. 
Tim Irish didn't losf' a sPt in f'ither match with Sachiro and Smith leading tlrn way. Warford and Taborga each ~~-'---------------------------''------Th_e_O_b•-•"'-.-,1J_o_e_s,--1ark 
picked up singles. victories in those After dropping his doubles match in Sunday's Big East Championship with Miami, sophomore wins. Matt Daly defeated Miami's Jamin Thompson in straight sets to help lead the Irish to victory. 
7-5, 6-3, in yesterday's finals. "But we came here wanting to win the team match and we did that, so it makes it all worth it." 
Sachire, playing without Patterson, also went l-0 in doubles play. defeating Hutgers 8-5 in the semifinals. 
"It's a disappointment that Brian's not down here," Sachire said. "We had been playing really well of late at doubles, but things happen and you have to move on. Aaron's a great doubles player and it's been fun playing with 
him." 
Sachire and Notre Dame's strong contingent of freshmen were the perfect combination to hold off a talented Miami team. After tasting victory at Big East, the Irish will now turn their focus to the NCAAs, where they will make their ninth-consecutive appearance. 

NOTRE DAME MEN'S TENNIS 1999 BIG EAST CHAMPIONS 
BOBBY BAYLISS 1999 BIG EAST HEAD COACH OF THE YEAR 
1999 BIG EAST TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIP RESULTS 
SINGLES 
NO. 1: RYAN SACHIRE (NO) DEF. ARPAD ODRY (UM) 7-5, 6-3 NO. 2: MATT DALY (ND) DEF. JAMIN THOMPSON (UM) 
6-1, 6-3 
NO. 3: JOHAN LINDQYIST (UM) DEF. ANDREW LAFLIN (NDl 6-2. 6-4 NO. 4: CASEY SMITH (NO) DEF. IOSE LIEBERMAN (UM) 4-6, 7-5, 7-5 NO. 5: MARK ARROWSMITH (UM) DEF. ANDY WARFORD (NDl 7-5, 6-3 NO. 6: JAVIER TABORGA(NO) DEF. IOEL BERMAN,(UM) 6-2. 5-7, 7-5 
DOUBLES 
NO. 1: SACH IRE/AARON TALARICO (N Dl VS. ARROWSMITH/THOMPSON (UM) 6-5. ABANDONED 
NO. 2: BERMAN/ODRY (UM) DEF. TRENT MILLER/TABOR.GA (ND) 8·6 NO. 3: RALPH HILT/LIEBERMAN (UM) DEF. DALY/SMITH (ND) 
8-6 
NOTRE DAME 4 MIAMI 3 
-
.. 
-
.... 
page 22 The Observer. BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL Monday, April 26, l 999 
.. 

Fox Force Five takes women's title 
By KERRY SMITH 
Sports Writer 
-
The Observer/Ernesto Lacayo 
1 Tom Dietrich of Keyplay.com contributed four points despite his team's loss in the all-star game Sunday. 
Bookstore 
continued from page 24 
points and 14 rebounds in the win. 
Sr.arrnd by injury over the weekend. Malicious Prosecution was concerned about their pnr­formanC{' before the champi­onship game began. Haigh broke his finger in the t<1am's Elite Eight victory over Coro-Butter. forcing him to woar a splint in the final two games. Cole hurt his foot in the Final Four win against Keyplay.com. 
"vVe aren't the youngest team out there," said Cole. "We got pretty banged up. I hurt my heel in Saturday's gam11 and it became worse overnight. But if you can't suck it up to play in the championship game, there's something wrong with you." 
Both players overcame their injuries and turned in imprns­sive performances against Versatility. Cole scored eight points and tailied seven rebounds, earning the. title of 1999 Bookstore 13askctball Most Valuable Player for his domi­nance on the court. 
"It feels great lu win the award," said Cole. "But it really could have gonn to anyone on our squad." 
Haigh added five points and brought down six rebounds, earning a spot on the All­Bookstore First Tc\am and win­ning the Iron Man Award for playing with a broken finger. 
Malicious Prosecution showed they were ready to play in the opening minutes of the game, going on a 3-0 run for the quick lead. Versatility responded, putting the ball into the hands of its key player Hiltz for a lay-up and an outside jumper to bring the score within one. 
The two teams settled into a rhythm of exchanging baskets up and down the court for sever­al points. A jump shot by Lil!is from the top of the key and then a steal and quick layup by Childress tied the game at eight. 
Ilillz and Lillis nailed two bas­kr,ts !him behind the three-point line, while Cole and Haigh came up ,vith fast-break points to tie it at I 0. Coln hit a jumper from the foul line to end the half with Malicious Prosecutio11 holding a slight 11-10 lead. 
lliltz opened up the second­half scoring with two outside jump shots for the 12-11 Versatilitv lead. 
Drawing several fouls and causing a handful of turnovers, Malicious Prosecution went on a 6-0 run for the 17-12 lead. The run was key in clinching the vic­tory; Versatility was unable to come back and regain the lead. 
Childress and Dillon, with two lay-ups on quick transition plays. reduced the lead to three but sent Malicious Prosecution to the line after fouling Van Handel. Van Handel took advantage of the scoring opportunity, hitting the foul shot for the 19-15 lead. 
Combining scrappy ddense ,,vith quick off-the-ball movement and offensive domination, Fox Force Five came awav as the 1999 Wonrnn's Bl;ohtorc Basketbal I XXVI II Champions, defeating Ourselves Sunday at the Stepan courts. 
Fox Force Pivo, with players Erin Brandenburg, Jen Gingrass, Amy Anderson. Kate Caballero and Margan~t McCaffery came out strong against Ourselvns, with learn nrnmhnrs llolly Hoffman. Mary Leffers, Meg Reynders, Emily Schieboul and Marcie Bomhack. 
Fox Force Five dominated in the first half for the 11-5 lead at thi' break and newr looked back. Continuing to put pressure on the ball clcfonsivcly and using a patient offense, Fox Force Five maintained ils lead throughout the st>cnnd half, finishing with the 21-11 championship win. 
"They were the best team we played. They executed a lot of their plays well and played together the entire time, " said Hoffman. "We had a lot of fun out there, but just weren't play­ing together today," 
Versatility, refusing to let down, came back with two unanswernd baskets by Childress to bring the score to 19-17. 
Versatilitv was unable to scorn again. as ~1alicious Prosecution turned up the heat, scoring the final two points to seal the win. Coln hit a key foul shot for the 20-17 lead and tlwn Nemeth came up with a huge steal, hit­ting Coln for the jumper at thr, top of the key for tlw victory. 
"1\falicious Prosecution was unbelievable," said Dillon. "There was nothing more we could have dmw. I don't think they missed a shot all day. Wr, just tried to do what WP could. We ~attlnd, but it just wasn't our day. 
Dillon f!anwd First-Team All­Bookstore honors for his tourna­nrnnt performance. 
"Vcrsatilil.v should be next year's No. 1 "team if they keep the same players," said Cole, "They have live guys who can score from anywhcrr, on the court." 
Hiltz had seven points and six rebounds for Versatility to seal his spot on the First Team Aii­Bookstore. Lillis scornd three and earned a spot on the Second Team All-Bookstore. 
Nemeth, at point guard, scored three points for Malicious Prosecution and was awarded a spot on the Second Team All­Bookstore. Van Handel finished with three points and nine rebounds while Coury ended with two baskets. 
Bookstore Basketball XXVIII Final Results 
Keyplay.com
Primetime 
Nylon StrokersMajesties 
Versatility Coco-Butter 
MaliciousThe Chosen Prosecution 

Mr.Calfory, with tough play at the post, led Fox Force Five on offense with five points and 11 rebounds. McCaffery's domi­nance on the boards and consis­hmt impressive play throughout tlrn tournanrnnt earned her tlH' Women's 1999 Bookstore Basketball Most Valuablt1 Player Award. 
Caballero came up big dnf'fln­sively for Fox Force Five. Using quick footwork and scrappy play, she came up with seven sttrnls and added four points for tlw win. 
Leffers led Ourst1lves, tallying four points and seven rebounds. Hoffman, who earned the title of Ms. Bookstore for lrnr impressiw showing in the tournament. added two points and five rebounds in the losing effort. 
"I was really surprised to get Ms. 13ookstore. There was a lot of good compelitio1{'arid. it r!\ally could have gone to a lot ol' pm1­ple," said Hoffman. "If anything, it was great tu play wilh my team -they really helped me play well." 
Bookstore All-Star (;amc 
The 1999 Bookstore All-Star (iame brought campus celebrities 

· and top hookstorn players togeth­er for a run gamo Sunday. New Irish head men's basketball coach Matt DohPrty and assistant coaclws Doug Wocjik and Jim Dolan tt1anrnd up with Paul Hainey and Simila McMillen to make up the gray team, while tlw blw1 tnam consist(~d or I<JIJ(J Mr. Bookstore Haam Jani, I Keyplay.com players AIPx Cese ' and Tom Didrich, Whounwy1•'s Soan Perkins, Tim K1dl11r and Tony Driver, 
Lnd by Haitwy and Doherty, tlw gray team pulh1d alwad for tlH' I: narly lnad and Ind I I-() 11l the I! half. Thn blue team kPpt it dosP '' throughout llw sncond hall'. but :: 
couldn't pull alwad at tlw PIHi for, the victory. The gray team canw I upwithtlrnwin,21-18. 
1 
Dolwrty hac] an impn1ssiv(1 ! showing, playing big down low and racking up live points, while Hainoy IPd t!H• gray tnam\; offnns11 with 11in1• bask<1ts. McMillPn. Notn• Dam11's all-tinw leading three-point scon'r, nailed two baskets l"rom lwyond tlw thrnP point lirw. 
Jani l,~d tlw bltH' t<1am wilh livP points and his imprnssiw passing , gave him sov<1ral assists. (;psp i' and Dintrirh nach added four 1 points. 
_j1 
FIRST TEAM 
STEVE CRAIG CHRIS DILLON JAMEY HAIGH ALEX GESE JOHN HILTZ 
SECOND TEAM 
JOHN NEMETH JOE LILLIS TOM DIETRICH 
GARRETT GANSKE BRIAN OLENICZAK 
THIRD TEAM 
CAS SCHNELLER CHRIS CONWAY AL VITTER DAN AMBRlCO JUSTIN HEBERLE 
Att~DAVIE TEAM 
TONY FISHER BENNY GUILBEAUX DAN O'LEARY JOHN TEASDALE JABARI HOLLOWAY 
The Observer/Kathleen Lopez 
Monday, April 26, 1999 
SLURRED SPEECH 
DAN. puT -~f tN Yov R C0/11(, ): mr ON /'10NDAY. 

-:;J 

FOXTROT 
1'10N!(A, 1 OtJL '/ /-JAVE ,HREt 110RC a,:~11 ">11<1PS LcF r IN ,M.Y CAR[f.R As 
A CI\KfOON/S7 AND T/-ftRc. 
ARE A LoT or: Slf?/ous 
COl"J,Al/ftv'TAR'IES° L FEEL 11vs1 BE ;\'!ADE 8€foR(; 
T, UiAVE f'Ro/>Ap,1..1 F~EVER. 

I'M NEVER Go1N& DAD'S coM1N(:, 
So HE'S Go1NG To SIT 
To BE ABLE To To Tl-IE GAME 
THERE EVERY 1NN1NG AND 
FACE HIM AGAIN, ToDAY, 
SEE ME-H1S oLDEST SoN, 
I'LL SE So WARM1N& lHE BENCH 
HIS BASEBALL PR0TEGE ­
EMBARRASSED. 
DILBERT 
Ct..iBERT: EVIL 1-1.R. DIRECTOR 
','OU WORKEO 80 HOURS LA$T WEEK. THAT'S
~LICE, THE El\PERTS SAY 

LESS THI\N
YOU NEED TO BALANCE WORI<.. A.ND HOl'\E LIFE.. 
HOURS IN 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 34 W1!11;, 66 Raison d v,ew 
67 Numbskull 
1 A11l1ne founded 
JS Where COid culs 
GB Blasl from 1t1e,n 1927 
are Cul 
pasl6 Garden 
36 Th,s ta1r 1 
69 Drifts off smoothe, 
40 Popula, 
10 Leave be 1o Bygone Mrdeasl baskelball stioe 11 11,ugsleaner 
43 M,dleg poinl 14 D Day be;ich 
44 Rudely ahrupl 15 Make II qu,ck' 45 Escapt DOWN 
16 Showed up delect,on of 
1 Nol neg 17 Look who Jusl 
46 Expire 
2 Sound boosfe1 showed up' 47 Eagles 1,ome 
J H1gl11a11d 20 Uncl<' of 11cC> 
48 P,lch,,, H,deo 
negative fillTlP 
Nomos b,r1hplace 
• Capla,n of the 21 Courlqa111P. 
Pequod
52 Popular oil 22 Cluckt1eac1 s Provide (tun m
adc1,1,ve 25 Maroonod a sc11edule
54 Spv vs Spymotor,srs need mayaz,nc 6 A Yank ,n !he 
27 Scouhng 10b 55 lnle,n ,11 t11e 11941 war 
!iirr:J
28 Gras news 7 Rega,o,ng
JO Perpenct,cula1 10 59 Spook1• s1ghl1na lhe k~el Gi Rulgers e g e 1-.clress Madeline 9 Fencer s tJl,ICJe 
carnage 
-'--+-+-+----+-~+T'-+S'-4 12 P•ole1n IJU1IC1 ,ng lJ,ock 
13 He, lace launcneo a i,1;:,usand sn,p~ 
"""-,-.;...:::..i--:-+:+--:---..-+c+--+-+=-~ 1s l C' 1~nn10 s lar1y ---=:+c+-~ 1 9 Ouacl burlcl,ng -,,-...-:=F8 22 1r1:pac1 sound 
1--'=--l-'-+-"+'-+=~-.,--::'+::-+.::+.~.._,_,,i,,;,,,i 23 Baset1.i11 s Ha,1k .,.._..-:+.-+:'wllii,t::--t=--iH-,,'""'!"I 24 Lv,ng li1cedow11 -.-.--+--+---..-'l-j----je----f-4-=-+=-< 26 C•L111p10s ;li!O ii l·"\·tvu: 
77-tc-+c+,---, 31 A -,... un~ at ft11.• !tt ;t=-• !1 :-.av 
1-\A.LF OF Tl-I[ 
t,,. WEEK. 
The Observer• TODAY page 23 
DAN SULUVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
F,UT DAN, No oN, li'rAuyl
f<[ADS OR UST£NS To 
CELEBRITIE~ BORN ON THIS '{OU, fi,)VC/f LESS CARES 
DAY: li,ssic,1 l..111~.:. Rv,111 t1'N,·,1I. rt,Ih.-r Cr.1n-.tL111, B,1b t-fr,uH1. l.u11w!
WHA 7 -You HME ,o SAY­
tt ..unptt111, M.1t1rll·ll, Cu~l'lm,n 
PETER, 
THIS IS DAD WE'RE TAL1<1N6 
~ GIVE 
TI-\IS CONVER,­
SOME 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 221: fl,· ,,1r,•lul ~tut tl,_,1_111h1\ y~,t1r m,lfl' by l~t•,ng
5~TION TOOK
BALANCE) 
m~en$1t1vt.• to his or her t>mntllm,il 
'f'OU 
ne<•ds E,tra,·,1ganl galli1·anlmg "·ill 5ELFI5H 
r,1usr additiun;d str'-'~S beh"'L~n yt.1l1. T 
0000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl-221: fl,• pre• 
!'Mt•d f,,r war wlwn you go h,,mt> 11 
n,u'vt1 paid mow attl'ntion tti ,·our• 
~t•lt or utlwr$• whil~ 'ftlllf lover hre~ 
bl'l'fl anxiously waiting on tl'w side­
l11w,i; for your affoction. 00 
LIBRA (Sept 23-Oct. 22): You'll 
h,ll',~ a tcndenC)' to tak,• on too much 
• Your empathetic nature will mak~ it ,titf,cult lo say no W p<>ople m net.>d Ynu h.tVl' tt1 bt:' strong and consider tlw lll'l'ds of 1·uurseli dnd rour loved 11nt.•s firs1 00000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23·Nov. 21): Your 
1nll'lil•ctu,1I charm will win you the 
11upulanty you·v~ bl'en lo,1king tor. 
You t1t't!d tn take ynur talents and us•• 
tlll'm. You can make nirmey if you 
1>mm,,t,, v,,ur arl Sl'rt(iusly 00 
SAGllTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 211: 
\1>t1r lo\'l'r is ft-cling !Pit oul if you'w 
bc•,·n bus,· doing your own thing. Try 
lu rndude h,m or her 111 }'Our plans 
A qu1l't ev,•1,rng al home isn't such 
., bad idt•d ii y,1u Wjnt to makl' 
,Hl1l'lldS 000 
CAPRICORN IDec. 22-Jan. 19): 
!l,.n·t socialize with friends from 
\\'nrk. Gl'tltng lllVOl\'cd in the private 
,11larrs ot thosl' you work with will 
bad,tire, Cjusing tension and upset 
,md f'MJSSible rob ross 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb_ 18): Mix 
busint>ss with pleasure .rnd you'll 
d,,zzlc your clients with your ideas 
Jnd yt>ur delightlul wit. You will 
have lo be careful that ruu don't 
n\'t'rspt'nd in the process. 00000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 201: hnan.:ial deception is evident. You will <'Ap~r"'nce losses ii you leavt' ,·,,ur 1nm1ey ur jewl'lry out in lhe ''l"'n. f'nps will turn out tu be costl\' 
00 
l-li\G. 
·• • OF· INTEREST 
Holy Cross Associates is accepting applications for Jhe 1999-2000 program year that begins in August . 
.:•_ HCA's live in community and have service placements that run from teaching to soup kitchens Lo at-risk pop­uJati()llS. There will be information sessions (:30 min­lites long) at the Center for Social Concerns on today and TU¢sday flt 4 p,m, and 7 p.m. For more Informa­tion, contact Jon Slock at 1-5521. 
·...· 1'/l)Gt'a.d Student Joy Schre.iber, organ. presents a solo recital this evening. wda,y at 8 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. The program includes works by Buxtehude, Bach, Brahms and Viemc. The recital is free and open to the public. Plf1ase cull 1-6201 for more information. 
•··· ND Grad Student Simone Uranovsky, cello. presents a solo recital this afternoon, today at 3 p.m. in the Annenbery Auditorium or the Snite Museum of' Art. Graduate student Larry Taylor will accompany on tho piano. The program includes works by Britte, Ravel, and Dvorak. The recital is free and open to the p1tblic. Please call 1-6201 for more information. 
The First Annual Chili Cook-off and Bluegrass Festival will be held on Tuesday from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. at Fieldhouse Mall. Live music will be provided by Bluegrass Impressions, a local bluegrass band. Five types of chili will be provided for taste-testing. The first one hundred chili voters receive a free T-shirt. 
Sovereignity, Human Rights and the Challeng1~ of Religious Pluralism -a lecture by Daniel Philpott, junior fe11ow. Erasmus lnstitutl-1, on Tuesday at 4:15 

32 Del,ghts JJ Do poorly J6 Castaway·s spol 37 und Orang 
Ja Gy•nnast Co,-qanec1 39 In a corner 41 Co111pany w11h a dog 111 rts logo 42 Qur1,n1 ch11oren s gdmt? 
46 s,,a,y route 
48 Spl,rtscasler Me••,,, 
49 Brawl 5B C·y of pa,n 
p.m. in C-103 of the Hesburgh Center. 
so O Henry 1n t11e 60 t993 peace literary world ac:ord c11y s1 Toys w,111 tails 62 Novem::,er SJ Wed precede, honoree 56 Brewsk1 
6J Jo,111ng ·NorC5 
64 Food con1,;,w1er57 Sl1oelace 
Moving out and need to
problem 65 R,gct. 
sell your stuff?
Answr-rs to ~ny three clues "', 1h1s oui21r 
arc avc111no!e by touch tone (/~onr 1 900 420-5656 (95c per 11w·,.:e1 Ant1u,11 sutJscr1pt1ons aredvc., dtJ1c !nr thP-
Use The Observer
llesl ol SundAy crosswords'· ·,,n :11c-:asr 50 years I 888 7 ACROSS 
classifieds. 
..,,,,. 
• 
.... 

t.utf1l'r V,mdn,s~ 
llappl' llirlhda1·, rt11, ,,111 [,,. ,1 
~re,lt \'l'(H \.\'lll'l't1 ll\\'l' ,111d I\Hlhlllu' 
ar~ lllfl('l'tnt•d Yuu mu.-.t m,lk.l• ..Hl 
eth1rt, htnvt>\'er, ti Vt.JU n.\1lly \-vanl to 
intcrad '1-\'\th 11thL1r~. G1..•ttm~ vut ,1nd 
about wi!l l'n~un1 tlh1t you lllt'l't !.,kn· 
tv ol u11.J1r1du..1b \'\·h11 h,1,·e tht· :-.cHlli..' 
inten.·!--ts ~\1u dll. Thl' kev tl1 h,n·mg ,l 
K01, 1d ~•t..•,1~ will L'l' lP h.cl'j, busy dt11ng 
Llw th mg.~ ,·uu t.•njL)Y tlw m11~1 , 11u 1· 
llllnll>,•rs: I, 7, 18, 2h, .lJ, -ll 
ARIES !March 21-April 141: Crt•,1ter in\·oh·emt.:nl \\'1th 1·t,lle,1~lH'S will n~sult in ~1 bl'ttL•r \\"t1rking i1tmu~• phl~n.· Yoti can build Pll \'Lltlr fnc._•ndw .•Jnp,, but d\1n'1 ~•·-'' inhm11t,•I\' invol\·t1d \,·ith son1t1l11W \·pu ,, 11rk 
witl1.000O 
TAURUS (April 20-:\1ay 201: R,,mantic r,•lationship, \\'Iii Lw ·pl,·nlr­ltd it 1·uu i,;,•t ,1ul ,rnd 1111ni,;I<' wilh tnen.d~ Don't bl' surpr,~t.•d 11 s,111,e­lllll' trnm \'L•ur p,1st ha~ hi, 1'\'l' tlll yuu J~.;1rn. fh.' car('tu1. H1..• lllJ\' n,H h,1\·,• chang,,d 111ud1 000 
GEMINI (May 21-.lune 20!: Yu,t'II be impossil:>le t,, livr with lod,11• rlw changes gu111g un .:ir,,und vou .ir,' probably driving you cra11· Acc,•pl tht• 1nt.--vttdb1e and g,l.1l 1111 \\'Ith \'t"ur life. Thil.!. 1s. nnt the timu to n1t1r~e arnund 000 
CANCER (June 11-)ull' 22): You nt1 L'd ttl put srnne t">.(itcri1ent li.1rk mtt, \'1..1ur lite. Your dl•sirt• tu flnd c,ut abuul d1llt:-rL•nt lift'"t\"lt1s should le-dd \'Llll to rultur,,I t.1\'L'lll'~ or tt1 \ t,ur trJ,·l1 l ~\~t·nt hl bt•,,k ,ln t'\ntt( Vd,:attnn. 000 
\} ALR1y.!fT BurV you'Rf:: NoT (,£ TTtt./(j 1H/{f E. 
PANa _s!_ __, 
BILL AMEND 
0111irnBtll 1'mertd/f)l$1 byUmvorn.al PressSyntlicata 
HE Wol',l'l BE HE WON'T D1SAPPo11-ffEOl' NoT1cE. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
U$ 

www/futurepages.com/solutions/campaigns/99035 
I-NET 
-
L ____ 
13n route lo g:realne!i!i ••• 
¦ Roy captures his I00th career playoff win as the Avalanche capture the first win in the series against the Sharks. 
-
PORTS 
O 
THE 
page 24 Monday, April 26, 1999
BSERVER 
¦ BCOKSTORE BASKfTBAU xxvm 
Verdict's in: Malicious takes the title 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum Jay Van Handel and Malicious Prosecution captured the 1999 Bookstore Basketball title Sunday. Van Handel finished the game with three points and nine rebounds. 
Versatility's dream tournment collapses in Bookstore finals 
By KERRY SMITH 
Sp,ms W1irer 
After upsetting four ranked teams on its wav to the Bookstore Basketball XXVTIT r,harnpiouship ganrn Sunrlay, Versatility fiuully met its match, Malicious Prosecution. 
Ranked second by the Bookstore Basketball commission. Malicious Prosecution -with players Jtwmny Cole. John Nemeth, Jamey Haigh, Jay Van Handel and J.C. Coury -used tigbt defonse and a qukk offense to dispose of' Versatility 21-17. 
In a physical game, the two teams tract­
,, erl baskets for most of tlrn two halves. Malicious Prosecution combined an aggressive offense under the basket with on-target outside shooting to win the 1999 championship title. "lt feels great to win," said Cole. "After playing in the tournament for three years 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL AWARDS 
MS. BOOKSTORE
MR. BOOKSTORE HOLLY HOFFMAN
RAAM JANl IRON MAN 
JAMEY HAIGH MVP MS. MVP 
JEREMY COLE MAGARET MCCAFFERY 

year. I couldn't have scripted it any bet­
ter." 
Vr,rsatility, with Chris Dillon, John Ililtz, Joe Lillis, .Jason Childrnss and .lames Cochran. was the surprise of tlrn tournament, earning a spot in Sunday's gamo by dothroning top-ranked and defending t·hampionship team l'rimetinw in the Final Four Saturday. 
"We were pleased to get out of tlrn gates early and build up a littlo bit of a lead. We didn't want to play down against a team like Primdimn," said I liltz. "Wlwn we steppPd on tlln court WP felt comfortable with our chanres." 
Hiltz was instrumental in Versatility's Final Four win, rdying on his deadly out­side shot to tally 1 l points. 
"I was shooting from t.lrn outside during warm-ups and tl1e shots wen~ falli11g," said-Hiltz. ··so I decidnd to pull the trig­ger on Lim court wh,m I got the chance. We say, ()When you'ro open, takn it."' 
Malicious Prosecution P.arned a spot in Sunday's final-round game by pulling off a victory against third-ranked Keyplay.com. Coln and Van Handel domi­nated offonsivPly and combinod for 16 
and progressing each year to win this see BOOKSTORE/ page 22 

Notre Dame squads sweep Big East Championships 
Taborga 's dramatic victory 
Womens team clinches .. rallies a come-from-behind third straight title with 4-2 victory over Miami, 4-3 win over the Hurricanes 
By BRIAN KESSLER By WES JACOBS Spon:s EJimr Sports Writer 
CORAL GABLES, Fla. CORAL GABLES, Fla. 
Following Friday's 4-0 victory over Rutgers in The l0th-1:anked Notre Dame women's tnnnis the quarterfinals of the Big East Championships, team beat Miami's heat and hung on to defeat thc Notre Dame head coach Bob Bayliss said freshman 22nd-ranked Miami Hurricanes Sunday to take 
Javier Taborga's presence would be felt in next the Big East women's tennis championship. year's singles lineup. After falling behind after the doublns rounds, 
Little did Bayliss know that Taborga would make the women turned their play up a notch and took bis presence known two days later in Sunday's Big four of flve singles matches to win, 4-2. East Championship Final against second-seeded "We're really excited right now, especially since Miami. we lost to Miami last year," said Notre Daum 
With the match on the line, all eyes shifted to senior Jennifer Hall. "The conditions aren't going Taborga and Miami's Joel Berman at No. 6 singles. to got any worse than this, so we feel like we can 
"it was very difficult to play out there with the play anywhere." match at 3-3 with the heat and we wBre both Before the Irish faced Miami, they had to get cramping," said Taborga, who was filling in at sin­through some other Big East competitors. In the gles for the injured Brian Patterson. "It was really quarterfinals, it was 8th-seeded Rutgers. who close in those last three games, but I just hung in provided the Irish with nothing more than a there. Coach Bayliss gave me a good strategy and warm-up match. it worked." Notre Dame prevailed, 4-0. with easy wins. 
Taborga fell behind 5-4 in the critical third set, Marisa Velasco and Hall each won 6-0, 6-0, and 
-
The Observer/Joe Stark 
All-American Ryan Sachire won all three of his matches in straight see MEN/ page 21 sets, including a 7-5, 6-3 win over Arpad Odry in the finals with Miami. see TENNJS/ page 20 
• 
Softball vs. IUPUI, vs. Oaklan, Mich., 
Tuesday, 4 p.m. ~ Saturday, 12 p.m.
SPORTS 
Women's Rowing 
..... ATA 
at Midwest Championships, 
Baseball vs. Illinois-Chicago, Track and Field Saturday-Sunday Tuesday, 7 p.m. at Big East Championships, 
•
GLANCE 
Saturday-Sunday 



