
Fill 'er Up?
From Russia with love 
Wednesday
¦ Economists expect gasoline prices to rise
¦ The Observer previews Saturday's Russia Conference 
following new OPEC restrictions.
sponsornl by the Notre Dame Council on International 
MARCH 24, 
Business Development. Scene • 12* 13 
News• 8 
1999 
THE 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 110 WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 

Newsillan calls for separation of public, private realills 
By TIM LOGAN  Pnisid1rnt Honald Heagan's first  elPctPd officials rnc<'iVPd morn  
News Etlimr  term. has led to a decline in civil  attnntion.  
discourse in govcrnmcmL.  "i\t a timn whon our standards  
Journalists, politicinns and gf'trnr­ ''/\ rival ran't simply Im mistaknn.  wNon't quilo as high, WP wanted lo  
al society must. guard against thn  misguided or impractical ... he must  know mort• and nxposo morP aboul  
erosion of" barrinrs bdween public  be madn Urn moral cquivah'.nt ol' Al  our political lnadors IJP1'.aUsP WP  
and private mattors ii' tlw United  CaponP or thn Marquis de Sade,"  Wl'rnn't going to lot tlwm gnt away  
Statns is to maintain a vibrant and  Dionno said. "A lot of it is not sim­ with hypocrisy," Im oxplainnd.  
rnsponsivo dmnocrncy. said nation­ ply about hmwst disagrc,11111111 t ... a  While this l"ocus 011 I.hi' pnrso11al  
ally syndicated political columnist  lot of attack lrncomes intnnsdy pnr­ is inhPron1 in tlw wry nalurP of" our  
E.J. DimHHl in a lncture TlHisdav.  sonal."  democratic sysl<'m. DiontH' con­ 
In tlw wakn of l'rcsidont. Bill  This trend bngan in tlw latH  tnndnd. journalists must work  
Clinton's impnaclrnrnnt and tlw  I<)(,Os, according to Dio11 nc. At. this  against tho npathy that it Pllg<'1Hlnrs  
incrnasing focus on tho privatn lives  tim<•, lhcre was n fundanwntal con­ by bringing their 11udinnco hul­ 
of' elnctnd ol"ficials, Dionne warnnd  flict bntween "cultural traditional­ ancnd, thoughtful covPrago and  
that ovnrPmphasizing tlrn µrivate  ists" and tho movements for greater  taking tho public seriously.  
splwrn poisons lwalthy political  rights for blacks, women and  "If /\mnricans in largP numlwrs  
clobato and damages the dnmocrat­ homosnxuals. This put co11scrva­ choose to sit out and d1wido goVPrn­ 
ic procPss.  livPs in a position ol" "def'nnsive  nwnt's not important to tlwm. tlwn  
"Tllf' rompletl' collapse of' distinc­ offense," that led to a f'ocus on  wo journalists wil! haVP !'ailed," lw  
tion bl'twenn public and privato is  moral issuos and a "a rrnw feroci­ said. "We'd bt\sl not do that."  
anallmma to clnmm:ratic thinking,"  ty," according to Dionne. "The old  Media COV!'rage of t.hP Clinton  
hP said. noting that philosophical  rules went out the window."  investigation was anotlwr topic  
diff<'nrnc:os have Ind to attacks on  i\s Americans bncame morn tolnr­ which Dionrrn discussml.  
campus to speak on the media's responsibility to focus on  thn private behavior of political  ant or different lifostylcs, he said.  WhilP acknowledging I.hat main­ 
appropnate public affairs. Dionne is this year's journalist-in­ opponents. The polariznd climate fo  they also became morn suspicious  
res1dence for the Notre Dame Program in Journalism.  Washington. D.C., particularly over  of politicians. Tho private livPs of'  see MEDIA / page 4  


Medical ethicist shares field's progress 
By LINDSAY FRANK l"orrn of' religion actually improved Urnir Nl'\i,,,Writt·r lwalth. On<' of thcsn npidnmiologieal studies from California's Almeda i\ ran•l"ul dost' of faith may lw tlw County pt)rfonned a 28-ynar patient fol­only 111H:Pssily l11 s11cc1>ssl'tilly rPunite low-up. Controlling f'or family history spirituality with mndirirw. acrnrding to and substanr.n abuse, Urn data suggest­a lnt:lurP liy Daniel Sulrnasy, a Pd that people who attended a religious 1:ra11risca11 friar and bionthics scholar. institution on a regular basis had a 77 
l>PspitP long-tPrm tn•mls that dimin­-pcrrnnt lownr mortality rate than those is!11•d spirituality's min in !waling, !hat who did not attend. r1-lati1111sliip 11rny hi' grnwing again, Sulmasy proposed snvnral masons to 
t•xplaitH•d Sulmasy, who sc•rv1•s as (ixplain religion's affect 011 people. dirPrlor of ttw Biol'lhics lnstitulP of' "One explanation is tlrn rnlaxation ;\JP\\" Yurk .\fPdiral CullPgt'. rcsponsn, tlwrc is evidence that this 
"!11 tlw l\\"t•nti(•!h <'Pntury, it's gottm1 can l'lfoct tlw immune systmn." lw said. lo th!• point that it. S('PlllS that scim1c<1 is lln also said that tho community sup­all that rnunl.s," lw said. ",\fodiral stu­porl. snnse of' purpose and discipline dP11ls an• Lrni1wd to think 1111!y of' sci­associat1)d with rnligious practil'.PS 
Plll'P and 1101. of spirituality." P1rnble 1wopln to "find some sort of 
i\tTording to S<'VPral studios co11dt1rl-nwaning to their suffering which allows 1•d i11 i'ior11l Carolina and 1'1•1111sylva11ia, tlwm to vinw Lhnir illrrnss in a positive 77 pt't'l'i'lll of pati<'t1ls wanlt'd to dis­way. russ spiritual iss11Ps will! thPir physi­Sulrnasy also cautionml prudence in l'ians, wlii!P 48 pP1Tn11l of lht>SI' sur­usn of' religion to aid hnalth. 

The Observer/ Joe Stark 
vPyl'd want.Pd lo pray with thPir physi­"Wn shouldn't advisn people to believe 
Daniel Sulmasy lectured Wednesday on 
ria11s. in Cod l"or health earn rnasons. Wn 
efforts to reconnect spirituality with the Oih1•1· sludi<•s Sul111asv cilnd indicatr•d shouldn't put God on Lim levd of oat medical field. Faith can aid physical heal­that individuals who 0practiccd some bran and wnaring seal belts," he said. ing, he said. 

Academic luncheons resume 
By JACKIE OSTROWSKI News Writer 
Academic Pride Week luncheons spon­sored by Notre l>amP studnnl govPrn­mont began last week and continun with the optimism of sponsors, despite mixed responsos from somo f'uculty. 
The program consists ol' a SPrins of' luncheons designed to cnhanrn studenVfaculty relations. 
Although Acadomic Prido Wnek origi­nated last November in an attnmpt to start a new Notre Dame tradition. it has expandfld. The program lirst indud«>d all college deans, but this semnstnr student government chose to expand th,i pro­gram to all undergrnduute tnaching pro-
see LUNCHEON/ page 4 

Women's studies program exhibits strong potential 
By NOREEN Glll.ESPIE wonwn's studies!." coordinator. "The rollcge has "probably will ho proposPd in major, which 11111st hn dorlan~d ~.1im [\,J.1ry·1 Nrws F.dimr Undaunted, KP!lnv's interest othN stalling nncds." the near future. I've had stu­no !al.Pr than spring llroak of' a in WOln(\ll 0 S studins motivatnd But with an increase in donts ask more than oncn a studnnt's sophomon1 ynar. Slw Wh<·n s11pliomon~ Carolyn her to submit a proposal this intnrnst(ld students in the sub­year about the possibility." must haw a 3.2 (ii'/\, Lwo IPt­K,•lfpy IH'gan Lo nisparch lwr spring for a sturlent-dPsigned jPct. a proposal may bP on tlrn On average, bntwecn S!'V(Jtl ters of rncommorHlation from s I ud ,. n t-cl t•sigrwd wo III e 11 's major in the area. The stu­horizon. and 10 students graduate with faculty and write a proposal sl.udil's major proposal ovPr d,~11t-dnsigned major, a pro­Whiln only one sllldcnt has a \\OllHm's studios minor each outlining the course of study Christmas br<·ak, s!w rnarh(~d gram established by thc1 graduat<'Cl with a womnn's year. However, since tho the studonl plans. This prn­a startling rnalization. Collegll in 1993, grow out of' a studins major since the estab-establishment of the womnn's pos,tl must detail the intnllnc­Saint Mary's might not he wonrnn's studies subgroup dis­1ishmcn t of tlrn s tudcn t­studies program in 1987, tual rationale f'or the major !hi' plar.!' to nxplore such a cussion when a studm1t. wanl­designnd major, two proposals 3,256 women have taknn and dtiscrib!\ rnasons why tho lfold, nd to major in the area, and wore submitted for women's courses, indicating a hnight­coursn of study dons not lit in 
"I look ml at a lot of wonwn 's tlrn coll1ige only of'fernd a studies major this year. and ened level of intornst among any other ostablislrnd major studies programs al othnr col­minor. there is more interest with students. This may lead to offernd by UH• Collcgn. lc).{f'S and saw how pherHmw­''The rnason we do not have underclassmen. growth in the program in thn It is a program designed only nal they W(1rn," Kelley said. "I a women's studios major at tho ''I've had four or five frcsh­near future. for the motivat.nd studnnl, lmgan thinkiug that if this was moment is purely a matter or mc11 ask me about women's Currently, tho only wny a assured llaigwood. "For thosn what ! roally wanted to do. staffing and funding," said studies. and I expect that trend student can graduate with a students who do takn the step that maybe Saint Mary's professor Laura Haigwood, to continue," Haigwood said. A women's studies degree is wasn't the best place Ifor women's studies program formal women's studies major through the student-designed 
see WOMEN/ page 4 

page 2 
¦ INSIDE COLUMN 
Fire Delllons Infest O'Shag 
I've come to the conclusion that in its zeal lo become research-oriented, the University has transformed all of our classroom build­ings into controlled experiments that deter­
mine that precise tcm- Finn Presslev  
perature at which stu­ A,sisstam News Editor  
dents go insane.  
The focus of their  

research is room 115 in ()'Shaughnessy Hall, 
or the 131ast rurnace. as the scientists com­
monlv call it. 
The room is designed such that there are a number of invisible fire demons strategically placed throughout the room who keep the temperature for the majority of the room somewhere in the vicinity of 325 degrees Fahrenheit (163 Cl. To keep people from opening the windows, they have installed intricate Soviet-made window locks that rN1uirf' a mastm·'s in engint>ering or VCH repair lo figure out. 
It doesn't matter, though, because even if one succeeds in opening a window, it will he slamurnd shut within seconds by the PNpetually Cold Girl 
Perpetually Cold Girl forms the cornerstone of the experiment. Not only is she in charge of closing all the windows. she is also in charge of complaining aboul the frigid tem­perature of the room, even though the ther­mostat matches the daytime high in the Gambia. 
It's diflicult to argue with the Perpetually Cold Girl. because she dresses entirely in wool or wool-like materials, often wearing lots of turtlenecks -possibly four at a time. 
She'll sPduce other, weaker students into the fight. "You're right! I hadn't noticed, but it is a little cold in here," they say, wringing the sweat out of their shirts and brushing the tumbleweed off their bags. 
i\nother conspirator i.n the crusade against room temperature is the Language Resource Center. They operate the sweltering Languagi~ Lab, where our Irish Gaelic classes went CV!~ry week to listen to recorded conver­sations of Irish teenagers discussing the weather. "Today is a line day," says Muire. 
"It is sunny," says Padraig. 
"I agree," says Caoimhfn, who wanders into the conversation just to 11aunt his unpro­nounceable name. 
Sincn it's difficult to keep Perpetually Cold Girl in the Language Lab all day, they've cov­ered the windows with a thick asbestos shade plastered with dozens of f1orescent signs that prohibit anyone from opening the windows. 
In a fit of hvstPria last semester, our class declared a mutiny and tried to open the win­dows. Only one of them would actually open (it's the one in the middle, should anyone be so inclined). The others were immobilized by metal rods that ran the length of the win­dows. 
It was a waste of time, anyway, because a jet-engine cleverly disguised as a heater was blowing out warm air faster than the wind could bring cold air in. 
The Language Bcsourcc Center was looking for suggestions for a new logo last semester. I was going to suggest a picture of a skull and crossbones wearing headphones, presumably listening to Ntiala and Padraig discuss their passion for the weather. 
"lt is warm in here," says Padraig. ''Don't touch the window. I'm cold," says Nuala. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

News Derek Beecher Viewpoint Lisa Maxbauer Colleen Gaughen 
Mike Romanchek 
Mary Margaret Nussbaum Erin Pirourck 
GraphicsSports 
Mand, Powell Anthony Bianco 
Lab Tech Scene 
Ernesco Lacayo Emmett Malloy 
Tht Observer (llSl'S 599 2-4000) is puhli,hcd Monday through Friday cxi.::epr during "'x:1m and vacuion p~riods. The Obs:rrver is :, member nf rl,c A"ociatcd Prrn. All rcprod,icrion righi, arc reserved. 
The Observer• INSIDE Wednesday, March 24, 1999 




utside the Dome 
Compiled from UWire reporrs 

Administrators admit to discrimination against female faculty 
BOSTON 

Administrators have also shuffled 

class assignments and given female
Administrators at the 
Massachusetts Institute of 
faculty more office and laboratory 
Technology acknowledged last week 
space. 
they have systematically discriminat­
"Using the word discrimination 
makes it sound deliberate," said
ed against female faculty for 
Nancy Hopkins, an MIT prof'essor of
decades, a bias they said has had 
biology who was among those who
long-term negative effects on profes­
brought complaints to the adminis­
sors and the universily. 
tration. "The cause is unconscious,
The admission came in response to 
percent and adjust retirement pack­
a series of complaints lodged by but it has tangible results." 
ages retroactively for some women
female faculty members over the Women have been paid significant­
to reflect what they would have been
past five years and will he detailed ly less than male professors, and the 
paid if salarfos had been equal, Dean
in a report to be released later this university !"ailed to match salary
of the School of Science Robert
month. offers from outside schools for 
Birgeneu said in a written state­
Only 15 of MIT's 209 tenured sci­female faculty, according to Hopkins. 
ment.

ence faculty, or 7 percent, arc Although issues like office space
"Some small steps have been taken
women. Nationwide, 26 percent of and laboratory assignments seem 
to reverse the effect of decades of
tenured faculty are women -tlrn minor, they can make a dramatic 
discrimination, but we still have a
vast majority in the arts, humanities difference in people's job satisfac­
great deal more to accomplish
and social sciences. tion, Hopkins said. 
before true equality and equal trnat­
To redress this problem, the school "Anything that makes it even 
ment will have been achieved,"
has agreed to increase pay for slight,!y har~er adds up over the 
Birgeneu said.
female faculty by an average of 20 years, she said. 
• UNiVERSiTY or INO!ArJA Football player stabbed in altercation 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 
Indiana cornerback Curtis Bandle El, a senior, was among three students injured in an altercation Monday night at the Varsity Villas on Dunn Street across from Memorial Stadium. Bloomington Police Lt. Mike Dickhoff said Handle El, 20, was stabbed in the abdomen and later underwent surgery at Bloomington Hospital. 601 W. Second St.. Monday night. Also hurt were junior Ramone Demming, 25, who suf­!'ered a head injury and sophomore Kyle Moffatt. 21, who suffered a minor head injury and was released from the hos­pital, DiekhofT said. At press time, football media relations director Todd Starowitz said hospital officials told the team Randle El was in stable condition after undergoing surgery and would spend four to six days in the hospital. Demming was treated in emergency care, said patient care director Cara Baker Carpenter. "Obviously, we're praying for Curtis right now," Starowitz said. 
¦ lJNIVERS!TY Of PENNSYLVAN!A Student files discrimination case 
PHILADELPIIIA 
A graduate student in the Li. Pennsylvania School of Social Work announced a $10.6 million lawsuit against the university Monday, alleging racial discrimination and grade tampering. In the suit -liled in U.S. District Court in January -Cleavcn Johnson alleges that the University encourages the harassment and isolation of African Americans by condoning racial intolerance and animosity toward black students. The University denied all the allega­tions. "A culture of hostility and disrespect against African­American students and other minoritv students of African descent permeates the staff, stude11t body and general campus of the University of Pennsylvania," the suit says. At a press conference Monday afternoon, Johnson's lawyer told an audience of about 50 students and reporters that their goal in this suit is to "help change the racial situation and climate at the University for all [students}." 
¦ EMORY UNIVERSITY Researchers study sex drive in primates 
BOSTON 

Rhesus monkeys like to have sex and so should you, according to a researcher at Yerkes Primate Hesearch Center at Emory University in Atlanta. Sexual desire in both rhesus monkeys and humans is caused by the estradiol hor­mone, a form of estrogen. This hormone allows each of tho species to have sex at any time, rather than only during a certain time in the females' cycle, said Kim Wallen, an Emory professor of psychological biology. While studying rhesus monkeys over the last 15 years, Wallen has found female monkeys who are not around other females have sex with several different partners during their cycln, while females in close contact with other fema!Ps have sex only while they are ovulating. Like humans, monkeys' sexual desire is influenced by social factors. For exampl!1, peer pressure from the other fomales in tlw group discourage them to hav11 sex. 
¦ MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY Victory celebration results in arrests 
EAST IANSING, Mich. 

Although it didp't hav1~ all the elements of the Gunson Street moloe or tho Munn fiold riot, Sunday night's victory celebration over MSU's entry into the Final Four has some officials concerned about this and potential disturbances. i\ crowd of up to 1,000 pooplo roanwd East Lansing and cam­pus, eventually ending up in Cedar Village Apartments where they started a bonfire with nearby fonce timbers and furniture. The night ended in two arrests and damages ranging from damaged ceiling tiles in Butt11rffold I lall to scorched streets. Officials havo not d!itormined tlrn cost of' damages. 'Tm not really sure why peopl11 fod that tlrny nned to burn things to celebrate," said East Lansing Mayor Mark Meadows. Finance graduate student Hakchat Mohil was charged Monday with disorderly conduct for allngedly hin­dering a firefighter. In addition. a 19-year-old MSU student was arrested for obstructing an officer. 
¦ Sm.rm Brno \NE11:rnER ¦ tJAT!ONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
Acc.:uWealher~ foreca~t for daytime conditions and high lt!rnperatures 
The AccuWeathei® forecast for noon, Wednesday, March 24. 
H L 

Wednesday ~ 44 30 Thursday ~ 41 25 Friday I i)-48 25. 
f 
FRONTS: 
~

Saturday ~. 53 29 
....... ......... 

Q 1999 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Pre"·ur1:



3,5:' 

® © . G:JCIJ ... o,~~@1
Sunday ;~~ 56 
High Low Shower• Rain T-1torm1 Flurries Snow tee Sur,ny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
f_,S" ,..\:'~ '--·,/'" '-i ~·)  V.Associat«1Pw;ss  
Atlanta  73  50  Dallas  67  53  NewYork  55  42  
O G Q_U U -",•" .,.'' · ' '"' " _. · :.; · .;._!:!·_/· Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Via Assoc1~red Press Graphics Net  U -::..-::. -::.. Ice  -I)­Sunny  ~ Ll Pt. CtourJy Cloudy  Baltimore 60 Baton Rouge 73 Chicago 44 Columbus 53  42 61 31 39  Denver 57 Garden Grove 69 Honolulu 80 Miami 82  35 51 71 67  Phoenix 83 Salt Lake City 67 Telluride 59 Washington, Mo. 56  53 38 27 35  

-----------------------------, 
Wcdnc::sday, March 24, 1999 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Gandhi's grandson delivers reminiscences in speech 
Hy MAUREEN SMITHE News Writer 
Mahatma Gandhi's rornpl('X h!Pnd or (·1111tradktio11s ldt a long-rnaching !«1gacy for his c·ourilry and his surviving fam­ily. said Hajmohan Caudhi. grn11dson of' thP fanwd Indian 111111violP11t rPvoluti11nary. 
"M II sl 1w II pI«' d II n ·t. e v n 11 
k11ow that c;,u1dhi had chil­dr1•11 or a f'amily," llajmohan ohs1•rvnd in his Tuesday IPC· tur,,, "Tlw Living LPgacy of' 
c;andhi," sponsored by the .loan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studins_. 
With four sons and 14 grandchildrnn. Canclhi lef't. snvoral successors to continuo his peacnful l11gacy, Hajmohan said. 
"Sonw ol' tlw grandchildrirn arn doing f'ascinating work. o,rn granddaughter is a mem­lwr of the South Al'ril:an par­1iam n n t. and she works towards rnconciling militant Af'rican blacks who arn of'ton warring with each other," Hajmohan shared. "My brother is a philosopher. In recent years he has dcf'onded the honor of Hinduism -he has preserved the rights of lli11dus," Bajmohan said. 
Another brother rnccntly published a play about the son ol' the man who built the Taj Mahal. Hajmohan said that the play melts the division of hatn between llindus and Muslims due to the fact that his "real !mart is in justice, unity and reconciliation." 
A creed of justicn, unity, and reconciliation led Gandhi to conduct his peaceful protests, according to his grandson. 
"Ile demanded that thn strong respect the woak and that the weak remain fnarlnss against tlw strong," Bajmohan said. "Gandhi wanted thn starving to have control ovnr their livns and thoir desti nios -not f'ood or coins thrown at them." 
Rajmohan pointed out that 
Gandhi's nonviolent approach to problems is still apparent in many culturns. 
"Ile felt that nollviolencn reprosnnted both the dim(rn­sion of' lovn and t.lw dinrnnsion ol' strugglo," Im said. "lie felt that lifo !"ought with life. 
"Gandhi tried hard, in his heart and in tho !wart of' his fellow Indians, that thPn\ bo no hate or bittnrnnss." 
In addilion, Hajmohan corn­menlf1d on c;andhi's view of .J e s u s Cb r is t. Ca n d h i krm w that .Jesus could rnduc(1 his
,  enemy to aslws. hn said, but  
Today is Your r:-~,(C)py SHOP  instnad ho ohsmvnd that .Jesus died at tlw hands of' tlrnsn enn­mios bocuuse he had such an intenso lovn for tlw world.  
LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPV Complete Digital Document Services When it comes to being lucky, today's your day! We're the Desktop Publishing Services high-speed copy specialists you've been looking for ... the pot of goldResumes • Newletters • Flyers at the end of your rainbow ... the four-lellf clover Brochures • Business Cards in your pocket! When it comes to copies, we'reLetterhead & Envelopes Invitations • Table Tents the best. Hring us your orders for copies and our Forms • Posters & More! professional staff will get them done quickly and accuratdy at a price you won' I turn green over. Monday -Thursday: 7:30 am to Midnight Friday: 7:30 am to 7:00 pm Saturday: Noon to 6:00 pm • Sunday: Noon to Midnight Quality Copies, Quickly!'" Copyright 1999 • All Rights Reserved  "Wlrnrn others saw Chrisl's love, Gandhi also f'ocusPd on Christ's strnngth," said Hajmohan. Find campus, national and world news in The Observer. Enjoy the reading.  
Acousticafe thurs 9p-12a .J_oJ-.Je Got Ma\\ thurs 10:30pm  
 

~\o·.30pm 
CoQ 0·& s~  ~i.  Tom Deluca  
wednesday  7 pm  
Library Auditorium  
thursday  7 pm  
Stepan Center  
$2 at the door!  


page 4 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 24, 1999 

Wonten 
continued from page 1 
(for a student-designed major), it is a very rich learn­ing experience," said Haigwood. "These students have to think about all of the positives and negatives of the experience, and self-justify their own curriculum. While therP are advisors who work with the students, they try and give a student enough space to develop their own interests." 
However, both Haigwood and Kelley fear that the absence of a traditional established major in the field may be holding students back from declaring the subject as a major. 
"It's both nmpow:ering and scary," said Haigwood. "The curriculum a student proposes has to he something that is coherent and focusing on a specific goal, something that cannot be done in any other major. I'm concerned that it may stand in the way of a stu­dent who does not feel thal they are ready to construct their own curriculum." 
Kelley expressed concern over the perception of the stu­dent-de signed major as a potential drawback. 
"The studi>nt-desig,rnd major is seen as a barrier for a lot of people," she said. "I know that when I was doing my research, I thought, 'Why do I have to do this work myself when other colleges already have the program established?' If we had an established major, it would be a little bit more open for stu­dents to try out." 
There are advantages to the current system, however. 
"We like the fact that, as structured at the moment, it brings the department togeth­er as a cooperative gover­nance structure," Haigwood said. "We all have equal authoritv." 
Furth~rmore, it also lends itself to strengthening the interdisciplinary nature of the subject, Haigwood said. 
"All of the women's studies faculty are !'acuity in other departments." she said. "We develop courses in each disci­pline with a women's studies focus. The structure is very economical." 
But an established women's studies major would be an asset to an all-female institu­tion, said Haigwood. 
"Women's studies as a disci­pline is becoming increasingly more distinctive," Haigwood said. "Women coming to a women's college expect to find it as a field of study. Everything we do focuses on women." 
Other all-female institutions, such as Smith College in Massachusetts, have se1rn their women's studies pro­grams ranked as some of the top in the nation, mainly due to the unique learning atmos­phere, said professor Susan Van Dyne, department chair of the women's studies depart­ment. at Smith College. 
"A women's college strives to t.ake women seriously as learners, but only a women's studies major can put women themselves at the center of the curriculum as legitimate sub­jects of intellectual study," Van Dvne said, "To me. they are a perfnrt compliment." 
Furthermore, Van Dyne said, exploring women's stud­ies in an all-female e1wiron­ment can help to avoid mis­conceptions that often accom­pany the women's studies field. 
"It is true that female stu• dents might face more hostili­ty or trivialization of their choice on a co-ed campus," she said. 
Women's studies was first offered as a major at select universities in the 1970s, making it a relatively new field of study. While Smith's program was first developed in 1971, an established major program was not offered until 1987, Van Dvne said. 
Because of the recent estab-· lishment as a recognized field of study, it can be difficult being amajor in the area, Kelley said. 
"It's nard to sit down and tell people, 'I am a women's studies major,"' she said. "People don't take you seri­ously. This is an academic field." Without an established program on campus, it is easy to feel isolated, Kelley said. 
"Being the only person in your major is a little scary, especially at Saint Mary's," she said. "You develop your identity through your major." 
However, Kelley said, she definitely recommends tho experience. 
"For me, it has been a great way of introspection. r really had to question what college was about. It caused me to think about the value of my education." 

Luncheon 
continued from page I 
fessors. 

"The enLire purpose of the luncheons i.s to foster informal interactions [between pr·ores­sors and students!," said Carrie Hedin, student government assbtant chief of st.aff. "It's an opportunity for students to sit down with staff and talk in a non-classroom, non-academic setting." 
Academic Pride Week, how­ever, is a relatively new pro­gram. that has struggled with some publicity and communica­tion trouhles, according to sev­eral faculty members. The problems may lie in communi­cation between student govern­ment and department chairs. 
"We are less informed {about Academic Pride Week] than we ought to have been," said pro­fessor Alexander Lappin, department chair of chemistry and biochemistry. 
Hedin reported that each pro­fessor received both a letter and an e-mail about. t.he pro­gram, and student government contacted department chairs a third time. Though many department chairs acknowl­edged receiving information about Academic Pride Week, most were unclear on the pro­gram's procedures. 
Several expressed desire for a more individual twist to the program. 
"It's always nice if a faculty member gets a personal invite from a student," said associate dean of Arts and Letters, Dian Murray. "If the faculty are going to dine in the students' quarters, students can escort faculty there. It adds a personal touch." 
Murrav, who attended the November dean/student lun­cheon, noted that while many administrators came to the event, there were few students at the table. 
Hedin attributed the apparent lack of student participation to a minimal amount of publicity. 
"We have to increase the number of students," said Hedin. "We need professors to encourage this during classes. We're trying to spark tradition, and the first two to three times will be difficult." 
Still, many faculty members agree that a need exists for such a program. 
"A lot of students are intimi­dated to come and knock on a department chair's door," said Lappin. 
Father Patrick Gaffney, department chair of anthropol­ogy, was also enthusiastic about the program. 
"It has promise, and food's a great thing," said Gaffney. "I think it's a great idea. We ought to do more of it." 
To improve communication methods in the futun°\, Hedin wants to try to establish a list­serve e-mail for all the students of a particular college. She also hopes to send individual letters to students. 
Hedin noted that student gov­ernment plans to make the pro­gram a staple in the life of every student. 
"This is a pioneer year for the program," Hedin said. "We want to continue to make il big­ger and better each and every year." 
Academic Pride luncheons continue through next week. The featured college for today is the department of biological sciences and pre-professional studies. 
On Thursday,· the depart­ments of art and design, art history, music and history will be featured. On Monday, col­leges of English, sociology, medieval studies, and romance languages and literatures will be represented. 1-<'inally. on Tuesday, the featured depart­ments will be philosophy, theol­ogy, classics and PLS. 
All luncheons take place in the South Dining Ilall Hospitality Room next to Reckers. 
THE CENTER FOR ETHICS AND RELIGIOUS VALUES IN BUSrNESS PROUDLY PRESENT 
Elynor Williams 

Fine Art Workshops May 17-29, 1999 

Vice President ofSara Lee Corporation 

f.r_ofessor Todd Whitmore 
Notre Dame Theology Department 
Speaking on 

Diversily in the Workplace.· The Ethical Imperative 
Part ofthe Frank Cahill Lecture Series 
Thursday 3/25/99 Jordan Auditorium 4:00 -5:30 

Media 
continued from page 1 
stream newspapers did make some mistakes in handling cov­erage of the matter, Dionne generally supported the way they avoided sensationalism. Ile cited the slow development of the Monica Lewinsky story as an exampie of this. 
"It's not as if the press rushed in," he said. "To make this story public, a lot had to hap­pen. With no tape, no dress and no prosecutor, there would've been no story." 
He also reminded the audi­ence of the differences between newspapers and cable news talk shows, which were the source for some misinf"ormation and speculation during tlrn investigation. 
''We've got to put all media in perspective," said Dionne, who works with the cable station MSNBC and discussed many cable shows· tendencies to l'ocus on whatcwer major issue is on the table. "The cable TV side of journalism makes these things really big." 
Overall. Dionne said, newspa­per journalists must focus on maintaining a concern among the public for the affairs of gov­ernment. This is noc\ded for tlw good of both journalism and democracy. 
"In nowspapnrs, people come to us for a lot of' things ... but there's a public spirit that moti­vates newspaper readers," he said. "If that public spirit dies, we're in trouble." 
The lecture was sponsored by the Notre Dame Program in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy and thn John S. and .James L. Knight Foundation. 
Dionne, this year's journalist in residence for the Program, is a nationally syndicated colum­nist from the Washington Post. lie is a senior fellow at th!1 Brookings lnstitute's Governmental Studies Program and the author of two books. 

3 credit courses in ceramics, fibers (smc-core credit), painting & sculpture 
sponsored by Deportment of Art, Saint Mary's College call 284-4655/284-4631 
REGISTER TODAY! 


--~ -­

., 
~,J:~;
;.;J-: 
~~· /~~--::~~ 
..· 
. ' if"~,;, . 

COMPILED FROM THE CJBSFRVER lYIJRE SERVICES page 5
Wed 11csday, March 24, I 999 

¦ VUGOSLAVIA

¦ 
Angry dialysis patient shoots nurse, self 
h:./\1'. KAI\ I• E, Ill. 
. '\ dialysis patiPtl! shol a ntirsf' lwforn killing lii111!i1•II' lodilY, appan·HLly angry over liPing d1•ni.-d s11111Pthi11g lo drink. llw man w:is 111H!Prgoi11g dialysis, a lrnHtmn11L lo l'f'lllov,• wm,ll· prmh11'1S l'rom tho blood of' p11liPnts wlio~w kid11Pys hav1• failPd. wlwn Im a:-.k1•d for a drink. Tll!' nursn rnl'usPd ­s1.a11clurcl 111·0t·<•c!url' duri11g dialysis -and tl11• man lwgau arguing about iL. SL. Mary's llospilal spokl'sman Paul Tutt said. About an hour aft.er lll'ing disl'lrnrgi'd, tlw man r<'l11r111•d to 1111' nursp's of'fin• and shot her i>Pf"or1• shooting hims"11' in Uw !wad, Tutt said. Aulhoritil'S said it. was not known how many sl101s \\'Pr<' l'irPd. Tlw nur!w was lil'i11g l.rl'alPd l'11r a sing!.-gunshot wound, IJttl. lwr ro11ditio11 was not known. Tutt said. SL ~1.rry's is 01w 11!' lwo hospitals Lhal W(irc s\\11111p('(I with injun•d patil'nts from lasl WPPk's Amtrak crash in nnarhy llo11rho1111ais whid1 ltil'l. 11 JH'opln clnad. 
"' .. 
[sraeli court rejects viagra rape defense 
Tl•:L /\VIV 
,\11 lsraPli rourl convicll'{I a man of rapn Ttl('sday. n,j<•1·ti11g his argu1111•nt that Viagra raus!'cl hi111 to lost• control. hut conn\ding that it was a rontributing factor in llrn /\SSOCIJ\TED PIIESS reached a dead end and attack by cancnling a visit to Yugoslav l'rl'sidPntassault.. Anatoly Vitznudi>I. 52. confossnd lo that· Serb troops were ter-Washington even while his Slobodan Milosnvic onl'harg<•s that lH\ kidnappPd his 43-yc\ar-old WASIIINGTON rorizing and murdering plane was in the air. Kosovo.
1wighbor al. k11il'Ppoi11l and drovn lrnr to a 
f'orPsl ,war Td Aviv in an President Clinton pm­civilians in Kosovo. "We The Senate had benn "That is a dnbatn for
alt1m1pt to nxtort pared the American people have to take a stand now," scheduled to take a key pro­anothnr time. We am at a
monPy from lwr. Vitz11ud<1I dnnind rape, say­on Tuesday for an imminent Clinton said. "If we ~-11""1""1"'!....~~ cedural vote critical hour," Sen . .John
i11g his victim ronst•nwd to oral sex and even Serb don't do it now. we McCain, H-Ariz.. a
suppliPd him with Viagra. 111' said he lost attack on targnts, Tuesday on legisla-pottmtial 
acknowledging U.S. forces will have lo do it • "NATO tion by Hepublican prnsidential candiclatc1 in
n111trol arti•r taking tlw drug. The court said would be put al risk. later." Secretary-General leaders designed to 2000. told the Senate after
thf' Viagra c!Parly bPlongnd tn VitznudPl, Congress fell in behind orders airsrrike.s"
allhough his victim also was carrying a sup­NATO Secretary-keep Clinton from the meeting. Ile said with a 
ply. TIH· t1ll'di,·ati1111 was a contributing fac­him. shelving a move to Gnneral Javier p.9 using U.S. military bombing campaign immi­kc,1p the American troops Solana gave the go-power in the nent, it was no time to
tor in t!w rapP, said JudgP Natan Amit, writ­away from Yugoslavia. ahead Tuesday for Balkans crisis with-undermine Clinton's role asing llw wrclicl f'or tlw tl1rnn-judgn panel. 
"I want to level with you," the airstrikes, say-out support from commander in chief. 
"Suddenly Susan" actor Clinton said in a speech lo a ing all efforts to achieve a Congress. At tlrn White Ilouse mnct­union group and the negotiated settlement had Senate leaders shifted i n g and later at acommits suicide American public al large. failed. H remained uncer-gears after Clinton called Democratic Senate meeting "This is like any other mili­lain when the bombardment senior members of the with members of Clinton's
LAS VEGAS tary action. There are risks would occur. Hussian Prime Senate and House to the national security team, law­
!>avid Strirkland. tlw "Suddnn!y Susan" 
in it." Minister Ycvgeny Primakov White !louse to receive a makers were told to expect
artor who appan•ntly committed suicide by 
But Im said that patient dramatically registered report on envoy Richard Lim strikes Tw1sday 11vm1ing
hanging himsPlf" in a mol!d room, was dun in American diplomacy had Moscow's opposition to the Holbrooke's failurn to budge or Wednesday.
!'our! in a drug ('/lSP on the clay hn was found dPad. n•rords show. Police had no 1111w lnads 1J11 Strickland's dPath. which was discovered 
¦ PARAGUAY 

Monday morning. H1•cords rovi1iwecl in Los ,\11gP!Ps show1•d that !w was supposed to 



Vice presidental killing causes chaos 
liav1• ap1warPd in court llwre on Monday. Slrirklaml was ar-r1•stnd Oct. :{ I for cocainn 
AsSOCIATED PRESS "He died at the scene," said of Paraguayans gathered in the p11ssl'ssion and plnadnd no t:ontest (Ill Dec. 
Osvaldo Garcia Varf.lsini, director of stn)ets. 
ASUNCION the hospital Sanatorio Americano. Under the president's orders. for tl1r1•t• years and orrlnrNI into a rnhabilila­
21. n•rords show. I IP was put on probation 
Assassins in camouflage gear The director said one of the bul­members of the armed forces l io11 program. IIP was dun in court for a 
gunned down Paraguuy·s vice presi­lets penetrated the heart and sev­patrolled the streets to maintain progrPss rPport <111 Lhal program. Angela 
dent on a downtown Asuncion street crod an artery, causing massive peace. Scorns or officers blocked Llwung, an allorrwy who was rnprPs1rnting 
Tuesday, plunging the country into bleeding. Other bullets struck an some downtown streets. .'-itrirkland. dPclirwd rommnnt. 
political turmoil. 
arm and the liver. he said. Businesses closed and public Three men The assassination added a new transport was temporarily haltod. opened fire with crisis to the heap· of woes troubling At a Tuesday press confornnce, automatic Paraguay, which marked the 10th Cubas said that three suspects were
liiiiirltlit®lli.tD 

weapons on a red •. anniversary of the rewrn to democ­being sought and that a burnt-out 703.32 
Dow AMEx: 
sport utility vehi­racylast 1nouth, but had .little to eel~ getaway truck had lrnen found ]ONES -14.04 
cle carrying Lnis · ebrate with political infighting. a blocks from the scent!. The presi­Maria Argana to protracted economic crisis, and dent. who has bewme increasingly
N:1sdm1:

-2 I 8.68 
his offico in the ondomic corruption. isolated in recent months, even
2322.11-1 -73.10 

capital city early Argana Paragtuty;u~ JV.showed the vice within his own party, appealnd Lo Tuei;day morning. president slumped on· the backseat, his detractors not to make Argana's 
u 
NYSE 
No motive was immediately his white shirt and 1.ie splattered killing a political issue. 595.45 
reported and the identity of the with blood. A bodyguard in the front However, members of congress
-15 04 

iittackers was not known. pltssenger seat was also gravf.lly renewed calls Tuesday for his Prnsident Raul Cubas urged calrn wounrlt•d. impeachment. On Thursday, thn
("ompositr Volume: 
S&P 500: 

in a nationwide address. He ordered Police held back hundreds of congress voted to begin impeach­
1262.14 
989,124,000

967.83 
-.18.87 

the South American country's bor­onlookers as forensic experts wear• ment proceedings against Cubas. 
VOLUME LEADERS 

dors closed, and hogan a mMhunt ing white glOV(;"I$ poi't)Q 'OVel' the bul­alleging he violatt~d the constitution !'or Argana's killers. let-riddled sport vehicle. in 1998 by freeing a jailnd general.
l:!l.lltUIX J:1~11 ~ 01Mllill I CllAllfll !:IICI D.l't.L COMPUTE,-t>&LL .,.n +~l. Hi!!O !5.U 
Argana. 66. was hit by four large­TV footage showed n bodyguard Cubas brushed asiclt· anv talk of 
AJUEJII ONL:INIC AOL ·6.11 -•. 7~00 Ul.,1:5 PATHOQUtt.SU CJI vaus tH,,tl -::.l.1:,5600 ll.19 
caliber bullets and was already dead riding in the frQnt right seat bleed­leaving office prematurely. "I am 
COMP.f\0 COHPU'l'H, CPQ . l.6C +O. '950 JO.!'tl AUTOWl:I. C0"1 INC A\Ci •185.71 +lG,0000 u.oo 
whon paramedics took him to a ing htiavily from tho mouth and not considerlng n1signing from 
_,. ,,..i.!i

MlCllOIO" co~:, -l. s• 1U •.Sti 
wet WOP::t.~OM ,. nrrc -.0 -0. 51!0 1u.!., 
local hospital, according to a prclim• breathing with difficulty. office," Cubas said. His 5-year tC1rm
""" 

oRACL& co"r WCOM -J.10 -2. '1!500 815.00 CllCO BY&Th.S OACL -•.u -1.1.ns 46.0fi 
inary medical report Following the shooting, hundreds began in August. 
csco ~l. J7 -::.z.,uoo 100.:n 


Wednesday, March 24, 1999
page 6 


Today 
The Observer looks atCULTURAL how the conditions of women differ in Bosnia, 
CONDITIONS El Salvador and Appalachian America. 
n 
cus 
OF WOMEN 
A bi-weekly feature from The Observer News Department 
El Salvador pilgrimage exposes strength of women 
By LISA MAXBAUER 
In Focus Editor 

Por many students and edu­cators of Saint Mary's, a pil­grimage to El Salvador over spring break will hawi a lasting affect on their lives and per­r.eptions of the world. 
The purpose of the trip was "to follow in the footsteps of Catholics who were martyred i11 thn Civil War during the '80s," said political science professor Marc Belanger. He described il as a "source of knowledge." 
Elizabeth Dziedzic, Saint Mary's senior, made the pil­grimagP last y1rnr and acknowledged that many Salvadorans consider Jean DonoYan a strong fema.lP hero. Donovan and three nuns were martyrr.d while working in El Salvadnr. 
"She is honored there as a person who has contributed to the delicate history that has risen from the conflicts of the Salvadoran plights," Dziedzic said. 
Morn visible than Salvadoran lwroes were the common women of rural villages. The students lived with families for a few days while attempting to "be a bridge between that com­munitv and ours," said Dziedzic. 
The amount or physical labor that the women in rural com­m unitiPs performed struck Dzi,!dzic. Domestic duties that started very early in the morn­ing and ended after dark con­sunrn tlrn women's days. 
"Everyo1rn in the community has a job, an important duty," 11zir.dzic said. 
Molly Hodak, a Saint Mary's s(mior. liv,~d in El Salvador over the summer. 
''My sense is that women never had time to sit around and relax. Thfly worked hard for not very much money," she said. 
Belanger described the situa­tion in El Salvador where "being poor and a woman gives you very low status." 
Sister Linda Kors, director of Volunteer Services, also trav­eled to El Salvador. 
"I know for myself. I would not be able to live the type of life they live," she said. 
Kors explained that tile women's jobs she witnessed challenged her, but also con­fused her. 
Kors pointed out that women fought next to men during the war, but afterward thev returned to their traditional roles. 
"I had a lot of respect and mixed sadness of women's lives in the village because they are a cycle of generations of manual labor that a lot of American's have no conception of," said Catherine Griebel, a Saint Mary's senior. 
Hodak believed that in gener­al and compared to American standards, "things arc slower to change there." 
Belanger witnessed women "struggling and working hard to improve their situation. They are not waiting for some­one in the world to make them not poor." 
Kors believes that Salvadoran women are· '"hope­fu I and positive." As far as basic needs Kors does not believe these wome11 expect more, but from U.S. standards, Americans think Salvadorans should have more. 
Hodak commented on the 
strong bond possessed by the women she worked with. The poor rural women often orga­nized themselves in collabora­tive efforts to support them­selves. 
For example, women would make money doing embroidery or pottery. Hodak worked in a woman's co-op bakery and a woman's organic garden. She was amazed how people were "relating to 011e another in a sacred way." 
Griebel also saw women take advantage of their social situa­tion to help each other. 
"There is a great distinction between city life for women and the village," said Griebel. She noticed how some women in rural areas have begun accepting business-type roles while men are occupied in the fields during harvest season. 
Griebel noted that her group was able to meet a particularly strong female figure while on their pilgrimage. This woman was active in the army during the war and is now a supervi­sor of men in a furniture com­pany. 
Dziedzic recalls meeting a "wise woman" in one village she visited. This woman talked about the struggles of the war and what women did to counter the effects of il. 
Many students who went on the El Salvador pilgrimage spoke about the strong male attitude of machismo. Hodak felt "men had morn power than women in general." 
After such a positive experi­ence in thnir country, Belanger questioned the messages artic­ulated through the Cold War. Belanger wondered, "Why were poor Salvadoran peasants considered our enemies?" 

Photo Courtesy of Sr. Linda Kors 

These Salvadoran women are working in a weaving cooperative in the city of San Jose Los Flores. Weaving, pottery and other crafts are one way these women support each other. 
ConstiflltiOijSPiCt~ltf-respect"Of female citizens 
ByUSA MAXBAOER· •· "J;t1Stradg~Jyer(1 titw'aS:,art ArlleriNI..rl < .ijvaru~t'ed<thll)fQrk; t)hey···•commented witnessed in Asian cultures. In Focus Editor ·wo~an vi'ho d · ... . .. th{) wot?eri;$ rights only that Sirota's section did not fit a Mandell also taught in Central America Japanese. Constitution. The American in in the 1960s. As a single woman working 
While many c-0pJi:{mpop~y:A .. · •fouµ.q ~er lofty in a very traditional society. she noticed women feel than.kfdl for tliefr fte . . . .. . ''Gentlemen, Ms. a situation where "most men ignored us some remain unaware of how other cul-employed her Sirotahas he:theart·set on thewomen's because we were too much to deal with tures treattheir female citizens, <war. .. ..... ""'"··'"·•·'··•···,.,,• . qp . . m?I! andrpmenwere confused byus." 
Donald Horning;µrofessor{ofso6iqlogy.'.. An rot tmr·ABJ ¢.1:'a'uit, the Mandell believes that being a contem­anthropology and social work for. Saint "Ni ghlli n e Japanese Constitution porary woman in the United States is Mary's said that ·iwomen~ave CQ,Pl! a sh9wei.r f\OV\' ~e~~~ wit~ ~pligh~-becollling mo.re complex. 
~,r:t~i'::::::~,::::1:1:l~:t~ ,wfJ!:w::if::·.e:i!fl't1: :if!~~El£fi~~1:~;;:;~ 
were a hundred years ag()+ and ~hei-Q tioi..-,• well:ctrllveleq they are now, it's an incredible differ~ embly>t AW.AR£ OF THE BATILFS THEIR r ls believe cul­ence," Horning said. because she w~s. MOTHER'S FOUGHT AND PERHAPS turaldifferences con-Governmental coustitutiol')$.,. he.. note~, .. flµent .,.•.·••· ..f!l> .....•.·.· <•···•·.·.· .•·...·.···... •/· .··.·.·.•..·• t ...··••. i ...·...·· tin e~igttQdµ.y, .. . are a wonderful way towlearn•'hQW a :\;JaJjanesor As th~ -WE SH:()l!LDN?q-ASSUME1'HA1'.' .. ·• Ori tho London country ultimately treats its femal¢ citi-""rinly woman ir.i excllange program, zons. Thts search can show what • the room," she llo!Jiingrecalledhear­''women were se~king andwiH1.t was)t ·iVl'a:s> -glyeen tll': '1)(.h'!AJiJ/]ORN!NfJ .. ing?jhal,"Awedca·~•· their country denied them." task of writing i¥t.dFHssOR OJl'AN1'flliOPOl,OGY. tOn:cern with sexual According to Horning, many countries the section on SOCIOLOGY & SOCIAL WORK harassment would have cQnstitutiqttal pt()vislol'l$jthat WomeJ't\s, right$ :p,~~.tt:. ll~ ;Jh.oug~t 
0

extend protectioR to wombn, Jht.iielis· ,, ~:hne~/4~1':. i . .· ... ·• . me~n,ipgf'uli. . h) the United States does not. ·Sirota did not have time to think if she London." Homing said he fmmd it trou• "What happem~<i to the equal t~ghts J".~.s.qu;lt,fied f~(g,m;h.apirnportatJtlask, blin tlmt.toler~1tc~ · · ar~awouldJ.1e amendment7 '' Horning ao.ked. . · · ijer.. ~e\1im day& ofwork suhse9qent]y.. y acc~pt~. .......· ly. a.s part Qf 
In 1972 the Equal RighfAmenqment went uway beyond the American !.:onsti~ · "mal ... · ale games.'':, fell three sw.tcs short of being approved iuUon,":.according to "Ni,gptline," · · ' · 
by tho U.S.. Congrei;s. Thttame. t •·,c.Sirota•tµelµ~e~, would have confirmed that"Equ .. .. f 't,ni1rriag~' as·· a" ~Q:lld rights under the law shall ;not be denied ·betweenhoth.sexes. 
~t~:~teg~~ ~~!~t~r~t~,JSt~te.J ,t~r: 
Horning wonders ff Americans are aware of the amendment's llbson'cb in ... . their constitution,... , • ,·•'>~'But.· 

·.. Gai.l M,audell, a, · g1, 9f.hut)'l.lttµsttps.tydi nt' visit1o'.'.Chind lfo ··.••· .....·· .. 'jChirreso women had moved ifiassumh1gij:msitions 
·::) ,,~rp,.t) . ~~i,~~~-~a~ ~:. .··..·1'.I5~ll~ 
She decided that attitudes ofwomen a.rQ t inJh. due to yoq qgn't have clearly defined roles. Jt is harder to know your place in society [and·in that wayl this generation is in a worne place than I was at your age." 
She fi\Xplained that her generation may have had it easier than her mother's because they found new options in their life,·She wo.nderfld whether women today arc becoming exhausted vvith this plight, 
"Atleast J had a sense of what l could 
. be, (}fshould be, women today be!ievti they• have to live up to liberation as the em~ncipated. generation," she said. While J10 single culture can be bellevod as superior In its treatment ofwomen, no assumptions should be made. Cultural identitios a,~d gender relations depend upon the choice ofindividuals. "We often.assume that young women
:~~•ri~:r:· r~~i:t,0 fa~~e ::;~!~t~; 
shouldn't assume that," Horning con• eluded. 
-~----------------------------­
. 

Wednesday, March 24, 1999 The Observer • IN FOCUS page 7 
Film about Bosnian war crimes breaks silence 
Emmy-award 
winning 
documentary 
explores the 
use ofrape as 
•

a war crime. 
By USA MAXBAUER In l-'o,us rdiwr 
Tim fPnHtlP survivors of Omarska, a noLorious S,,rbian d11L1!11lion camp. no long-1·r fc•ar tlrn !:rack of gunshots. inst1•ad tlwy rc•i·oil from lnmrnn touch. 
Tlwv wHrt• llw torLurPrl wo1rn•11 of tlw war ;;1 llnsni11 and 1!1•1·mgovina. They arl' tlw wonwn whosn stnry no long!lr r1•111ai11s sihmt. 
Tht> l'ilm "Calling thn (ihosts: War C:rinws .,\gainsl Women in Bosnia" hrnkP llrn silPllCP of tlw war atrocities for llw Nolr(' llarnc and Saint Mary's rommunity las1 wenk. This Emmy-win­ning dorunwntury 1•xplores the stori,~s nl' l.wo Omarska survivors. .ladranka Cignlj ancl Nusrcta Sivac, who w<-ro lllPr<'iy two of the estimated 20,000 Muslim wunwn rarH•d by SPrbian men during tlw 1:arly I 9'J0s. 
Cig,dj and Sivac decided it was in1fwraliVP that tlwir stories lrn told. Siva1· rnnwmbnrs wanting lo di<1 while at Omarska when she realized "It was 1wc,issary lhat somPOIW survive so that tlwy rnuld ti-ll lh<! story and so that evNyone would know what wPnt on in tlwri•.'' 
"You rnalizn that what. is important is Lo work towards a way to hold thcsn peoplt• rrsponsible and punish them," Cigl\lj stutPd in the lilm. 
Tho !ilm's dirnctor Mandy ,Jacobson considPrcd Cigclj and Sivac wonderful figures for her film because they defied 
the public's sternotypes of Middle­Ea::;tcrn women. They are not poor, unoduca.ted peasants. They aro. in fact, successful attorneys in the Bosnian eity of Prijedor. 
Although it might have been thoir strength that allowed thoir story to find a voice, it wai; this same strengi..h that placed them in Orn Serb-run detnntlon camp. The women both agreed that lhey were imprisoned because they worn Muslim intellectuals. 
Sivac insisted in 1992 that her hus­band leave Bosnia for Croatia to a.void the approaching Sorbian troops. She did not foar for hor own safety and believed no one would harm women. Yet Sivac was brought to the camp as part of' tho Serbian "otlmic ck,ansing." 
Without knowing where they had 
been taken. the women in the film recalled hearing Serbian folk music playing loudly throughout 0marska upon their arrival. The prisornirs of this camp soon realized that the music functioned to drown out the screams of tortured Muslims. 
Once Sivac and Cigelj realized the harsh conditions of thelt surroundings, they wondered how something this sav­age could happen in this century. 
With the help of these women's tf'sti­monies, the world is presently investi­gating the truths behind 0marska. In 1996, the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia in The Hague issued indictments for the arrest of some of the camp's predators. For th() first tirM in history, rape was buing defined as a war crime. 

Bosnian children's artwork accompanied the showing of the award winning documentary "Calling the Ghosts: War Crimes Against Women in Bosnia." The artwork, exhibited in Madeleva Hall on Saint Mary's campus, was created by children who have witnessed enormous amount of tragedy surrounding the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 
"There will be no justice unless women arn a part of that justice," orw judgo for tho tribunal announcod. 
The film explores where the world puts rape in the hierarchy of war crimes. The Tribunal quickly realized that "systematically humiliating women'' is a powerful tool in times of political conflict. 
Sivac insists women wern manipulat­ed in this war. 
"You can't divido tlrn women bctwoen those who w1.m1 raped and those who were not. In the end, evnryone was raped, whether it was mentally or physically," she said. 
The film also tixplores the idea that "destroying a woman is dm;troying the essence of a nation." 
Both women now suffer health prob­lems, including severe kidney damage as a result of boing forcnd to drink pol­luted wat<lr at Omarska. 
"My mental health and my physical health started to dPttiriorat.P. and I realized that it was tim,, to start com­municating with others and especially to tell them about thos1,• t.ha t aw miss­ing," Sivac said. 
Jacobson began her discussion of the film by saying, "I wish I had good 1iewi; to tnll you." Shn rmnindod IHW audinncP that two instances of g<'nocidl' have recently occurred. The Serbian occupa­tion ol' Pri,jedor also continuns tuday, and many of thn men who torturnd Bosnian women walk freely about lllf' 
city. 

"Calling tho Ghosts" sP11ks to build a strong body of support. The survivors hope that viewers will •·use t.his experi­onces to rnllnct on what could happen in your own lives." Jacobson pointod out that "these women are not speak­ing about a feminist agm1rla, they am political. They're saying, 'Stop the war."' 
The purpose of' this documentary is to "explore issuns of human rights in relation to women," said Jacobson. 
She also challenges the U.S.'s relatiw global voyeurism. Critics claim the U.S. often takes too passive a non-interven­tionist stance in international affairs. 
Students provide services in Appalachian region 
reckoned with."
The poverty ofwomen is a visible ele­
Their goal is to build both individual and collective
ment ofa visit to the Appalachian 
women's power through vari­region, yet advances are slowly occur­ous pathways. This includes a 
newsletter, leadership work-
ring to help the conditions ofwomen. shops and also the "Appalachian Women's Journal" which allows them to speak in their own words
By BRIDGET EGAN so nm W<'LY to deal with lllei r 
to, not only the women of
Nt:W'i Writl"r liv1•s." 
Appalachia, but of the world
The main problem centers 
as a whole.
."i!udl'itts who atlP!ldPd t!iP around tlw !'act that them are 
Thn Alliance helps the
/\ppalarliia SPminar were\ virtually no support groups in 
women broak the cycle of
stru,·k wilh tlw daily hard­Pxistnnc,, to lrnlp the women. 
male dominance, domestic
ships Appalarhian wo111Pn Opposition to such an outlnt 
violence, massive unemploy­
l'a!'t' living in 01w of tl11• poor­t'.01111\s from the m11n in 
ment and all of thn inade­
f'SI. rPgio11s in tin• U.S. i\ppalac'.hia. Thny do not want 
quatn mlucational and health
"Tlwy an• 1111lwliPvt1bl!i. Tlw the womnn to start thinking 
care systems in existence.
hardships th1!y ov1•ri'.01JtP 011 thnir own or to gain any 
Sonin Appalachian women
daily ar<' impn•ssivP," said l.iz sort of independence, stu­
are so accustomed to their
Bald,. a Saint Marv's sPnior d1mts said. 
families being on welfare or
who has altP11;!Pd tlw l.ifr is hard and it shows, 
to s11ning tlrnir mothers
Appalaf'hia St>minar lwicn i1sJH1cially in tlleir faces. 
abll'wd by U1cir fathPrs that
ov,T hn•;iks. Wo1111111 tnnd to ago much 
thny do not know anything
Sitint i\lary's sponsors tlw mor<' rapidly in Appalachia 
difft1rent, studnnts recog­
s1·111i11ar, wllirh takPs placP ('.ompan'd to tlw n•st of tlw 
nized.

o\'Pr fall and spring brt>aks. ro1111lrv. slmlins show. A 40­
"I think UHlru should bo
l'arlidpnnts lrnvPI fogl'tlwr to Vl'ar-o.lcl woman oftpn looks 
morn !opportunitins for
Clintwood. Va.. to sp1·1HI th,: iik,i slrn could bn hO. This also 
womonl. but tho women aro
Wf'Pk wo1•ki11g and IParning i11 st11111s l"rom the liu:k ol' ecluca­
so hnsitant to gut involved
111" n•gio11. tion .r11d hnalth care. 
becaus(• of' the implications on
l\lany sl11d1•11ls wlto partir­On(' participant commontnd 
their home life," said Sara
ipatr•d i11 l111s program said on how Urn Appalachian 
Salazar, a team leader of Urn
!.Ile womPn in the womnn do not hawi cabinets 
Appalachia Seminar this
Appalac-hiun rngio11 oxp1n-i­foll of beauty cam products. hoad they feel their life is jobs, in both pay and work 
semester. okay.''
f'!l<'P t>ronomic. physical and Knowli•dgn of' f'nmininn health conditions. n1lt11ral vifllf'llC!'. The womnn 1wncls is lacking as well. They "The women do have an Some women am proud if Education not only helps lo ari•, in gP11Pral. rrnt n11c1n1r­arn uneducated about sell' advantage in that they aro lhey are able to improve their get good jobs but also agt>d hy tlw 1111'11 in tl1nir liV('S, brmtst Pxams and yHarly pap strong," Porter pointed out. position in society from that nmpowcrs Urn wonrnn. partil'­wlwtlwr it lrn tlwir fathnrs or snw,u·s. "Even with all their impossi­in which they were raisod, ipants agre1~d. Ev1\n ii' they 
hllshands. OnP of tlrn fnw women's ble odds lhey kenp going and students said. romain in Appalachia thny move on with their livns." Today womPn in thn area can movn to a IH1tlllr arl'a or
Mary l'ortN. a Saint Mary's help organizations in tho 
Salazar had some of the are staying in school long1:r leave their abusivn relation­
Jllllior and a ri•sic!Pnt 111' trrn nigion is thu Appalachian 
same snntiments, staling that than the generation preceding ships and try to makn it on
rPgion, said that "tl1ny t'an't Womnn's Alliance. Th<!V call dWt!ll 011 it, tlwy haVt! to l'iud Llrnmsolvns "a voice to be "as long as th,, women have a them did. This leads to bnttcr their own. family and a roof over their 

page 8 The Observer• NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, March 24, 1999 
Supreme Court limits testimony 
Asgoclared Pr~ss • 
.,·•,:~ ..,,, 
WASHINGTON 

The ·government-sete,tted company that ·aSi'iigus,ru~tqf>' the world's lnti:irm:it addtess• " es made a surprise tno:ye to steer customers .of an inlpor• . tant.Web directory toJtsprh' · vate .c6u:nnerciatstte, an!'l,the government wants to kriow 
why. . . ·.··.•· .·· . 

"We'r.e very fQf!C~t~~:d/'Becky Burr. adrninistt,ator · rn . with the Commerce "We're ~nterihg'.a \ll:lry' Department, said Tues9,ay. uncertain period,''.ysaid Jay
:·~~:;::ri:~~:\:~;;;;J rrt~irii. ... · ·. '.';fi~t 
States government." ·· company. ''there ~I,\ s(lrious: People trying to vi$}tthe q11estion'$''1tbou w th!s. popu.11!-r "lntornic,Net'',)lij1j11,.:-,. :, tf<VJ,iHiqr(, ,,., ,..,. ,... ,.· ./&r~.,< 
tory -'--'which checks the avail· ability of a new Web address -are unexpectedly being swept automaticaJly in~tead to the home pag6 for Nbtwod Solutions Inc., which offers to 
register Internet addresses with the t:om, net.• or .otg suf0 . fixes for $119. 
''The community has had it for a long time•. and th~y're used to having lt Jor a Qiij~r· ence tool." said Michael Roberts, president of the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names an,d Numbers, which is assuming most of the management responsibilities for the fnternet from the U.S. govern•. ment. 
"Whether this sort of brute• force approach to dosing it is appropriate, there are a, M of questions about that," Roberts said. "The manner in which they did it seemed pretty inappropriate." 
The government is upset because the information directory has traditionally been considered a ,c-0mmunity resource, like a·· giant tele­phone book for the Web, and because it owns Internkas a registered trademark. 
"Our view is, this informa· tion has been freely available to the Internet communltyfor 

a long time, w Burr saidf'"If. ¢alJ~r:o~lellt1!/t ,< ~iir~'< •.....·.. there is some reason to A spokesman for Network change that, we need to be Solutions, Chris Clough, said consulted." · th~ Inteqlfc i ·a.HQ~ 
The information is stilLfree, directoliy;islegall omer> but one generally must go list owned by his company. 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE PRESENTS SHAHEEN PRESIDEr+.TIAL LECTURE 
Mary Catherine Bateson "The Meanings of Home" 

+ 
t-..oted cultural anthropologist and linguist 

+ 
Best selling author of: 


• 
Peripheral Vi.sion.s: !Raniing Along the Way 

• 
Composing alife 


• 
With a !Jaughtar's Eye: AMemoir Q{Margaret Mead and Gregory Bateson 

• 
Thinking AIDS 


+ Considered one of the most important thinkers of our lime. 

Thursday, March 25, 1999 at 7:30 p.m. Carroll Auditorium 
Admission FREE For further infonnation call 
219/284-4626 
--l!J·-­
Saint Marts College 
O

NOTRE DAME INDIANA 
TIie Na//Of!'S Premier Catholie Women:S: Colloge 
This is•j. sy.il).1t'()m of:: that." · · ·· · Network.Solutio PferJ\dofl;i;.\i'a'<.' ~a 
Iuctai.h'e'>ticlusl ver 
ment agreement to register 
most ofthe ~orldl.s !t'Idress~s 
:· · . 

.199;~~ !};~.cgj;rp.ttPy bat..~ -~ 
tered ·more tl:ran t4 mil•" lion Web sites a.ndJ:iad $9J.7 ruilli<m. . last~~r; i ,, ·. ''Jt~ d~ . .· .. ·. . . .· 'tl(i ~:
quietly steer VISI . . from lnternic to its own site comes just daysJ)efore. Il~berts' 
.. q;ianizat;i(}t1s~lec~'~ye c()m.,, panies thatwill co!l)pete with Network Solutions ih assign­ing Web_ addresse~,· _Robtlrts s11id the c!:iange has generat~ ed so much consternation that his organization may delay selection ofthose new regis~ ti'..ltiort co~ptiili~s: ··.....• 
Some Internet grol1ps were 
furious at Network Solutions. 
"They'rn tryingJo get a~ 
m-uch visiltfUty 'WiJh cus.1" 
tomers asthey can for"as long 
as they can," complained 
William Walsh oCFresno, 
Calif. , \,v~p ttinf P,~9 ref-et, 
another Ii1ternet company. 
"They're going to brand 
t~tlifregjstrar .s~t\'.(~~. ~!> the 
lnterriJc lleft>rgthere are:even. · 
other registrars th<tt could 
compete," \Valsh sai.Jf, "It may 
be legal,, butjt sp~~s of etlri7 

Associated Press Lawyers for Public Justice. "It 
enhances judicial power at the 
WASHINGTON expense of letting juries assess 
Th0 Supreme Court gave the credibility of evidence." American businesses more But Craig Herrington, general ammunition to fend off product­counsel of the American liability lawsuits Tuesday by Insurance Association, called extending the reach of guide­the decision "a sweeping victory lines that let trial judges for honest trials and honest 
exclude "junk science" as evi­decisions." dence. He said the Those guide-ruling could lines, fashioned reduce the in a kev 1993 
'IT'S A REALLY BAD DAY number of 
decision, also anticipated
FOR CONSUMERS, ... IT
apply to the lawsuits over planned testi-ENHANCES JUDICIAL POWER Year 2000 
mony of all AT THE EXPENSE OF LETTING computer prob­
expert witness-lems. "In the es, the court JURIES ASSESS THE CREDIBJL-
vast majority of said in a deci-ITY OF EVIDENCE.' these disputes, 
sion insurers predicted could play a huge role in antici• pated lawsuits over Year 2000 computer woes. 

"We conclude that (the 1993 ruling's) general holding .... applies not only to testimony based on 'scientific' knowledge, but also to testimony based on 'technical' and 'olher special· ized' knowledge," Justice Stephen Breyer wrote for a unanimous court. 
The decision ended a family's lawsuit against a tire manufac­turer over a 1993 Alabama traf­fic accident that killed one per­son and injured seven others. 
The justices voted 8-1 in sepa­rate ruling that a federal trial judge correctly barred an engi­
. neer from testifying that he believed a defect had caused a tire blowout and the accident. Breyer said the trial judge, act­ing in his role as gatekeeper, rightly doubted whether the engineer's methodology could reliably determine the cause of the tire's failure. "It's a really bad day for con­sumers," said Gerson Smoger, a Dallas attorney with Trial 
the expert tes­timony of soft­GERSON SMOGER ware engineers ATTORNEY or computer science experts will be essen­
tial" to claims of alleged design defects, IJerrington said. 
Tim nation's highest court in 1993 told judges deciding on the admissibility of expert evidence to consider whether the theory or technique had been tested, whether it was reviewed bv other experts, its possible rate of error and whether it was generally accepted by the scien­tific community. 
The guidelines, aimed at ensuring that planned testimony is both relevant and reliable, apply directly to federal courts only but most state courts model their rules after their fed­eral counterparts. 
A trial judge trying to decide whether to admit the testimony of a nonscientific expert witness -such as an engineer or com­puter software designer -"may consider one or more ol' the spe­cific factors ... when doing so will help determine that testi­mony's reliability," Breyer said. 
IJut the ruling also empha­sized that trial judges have broad discretion in making such determinations and that appeals courts can overrule them only if they find an "abuse of discre­tion" -a legal standard dif'fi. cull to meet. 
Beyond engineers, tlw deci­sion did not attempt to pin down just what expert witnesses might be affected. "We can ntii• thcr rule out. nor rule in, for all cases and for all time the applicability of the (1993 guide­lines)," Breyer said. "Too much depends upon the particular cir­cumstances of the particular case at issue." 

A Atr¾a 
SPECIAL 
~al%l 
INVITATION 

Announces the Following Introductory Offers of. .. 
r-------, r-------, r--------, r------, r------, 
I 20% OFF I I $26 I I $59 I I Man's I I $69 I 
I I I I I I I . I I . . I 
I Aveda I I Cut & I I Color, Cut & Style! I Ha,rcut Only I I H1l11es & I I I t I I I I $15 I I I 1 Cosmetics 1 1 Style I t One Process 1 1 1 1Cut & Style 1
L _______J L _______ J L________ J L------J L------J 
•Please call to schedule your appointment• 
Ple:;l.s1: use. th.t· Spi:ci,11 S;win~s invilition ,mJ g¢!{ m know us. You'll hi.: pleast'J ,1,.,jrh fhe tp1aliry and service we 
Ad must be pr,•unted to rece-ptionist 
before ,m,im 4re perfamud

providt", .rnJ we-,viii do our best to 111eric your confidence 
For New Climu Ot1(t!!! We liope to see you ,-oon. 
and parronagt'. 

No other discounts apply. Open some evenings. Atria Salon rese.rves the right to refuse service to any client whose ti air condition is unsuitable. Expires 3/31/99 Offer only good with Amy, Renee. or Ariane 
J\l'RIAWJlN 1.157 N. Ironwood Drive• Smith Bend. IN 46615 • Tel. 219-289-5080 
The William and Katherine Devers Program in Dante Studies and the Department ef TheoloBY present: 


"Dante Between Bonaventure and Aquinas" 
Giuseppe Mazzotta 
(Yale Universitv)
J 


> . •· •..·,...··•·•· ··•··.. ··...··•••·•. ·••·•·· . > .·.•. ~q~~ a.nd.. open to the public. 
This lecture is the last in a compact M!~;frta/".ii~letL'.:.6¥1£fN1~~;~;~:th~ QUlSt for Virtue" concluctedhy Pn;J;:;?'~\;J¥Wii;ttJ. from March 16-25. 
For further information contact the Devers Program in Dante Studies at (219) 631-56 IO. 
Wednesday. March 24, 1999 The Observer• INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
¦ YUGOSLAVIA 
NATO secretary-general orders airstrikes, allies ready 
Milosevic's trnatrrn~nt of !'thnic people in Eurnpe at tho end of vices would !Jc working. strikes. 
IH•:1.<;HADI•: 

NATO's SP<'rPtary•gP11oral ord,·r,•d airslrik<'s against Yugoslavia 011 TuPsday. aftpr l'r<•sic1P11t. Slohodan MilosPvic rPl1t11'1'Pd a last-ditl'h p<'al'.P offnr l'or Kosovo and r,•vvPd up his war mal'hi11P hy dl'daring a stal<' 111' PllH'rgPncy. 
In Washington, l'rPsidPnt Clinton sought -and got ­support l'rom 1·011gr<•ssio11al 11':tdPrs for military al'tion 1t11d gav<• a srathing d;•srription ol' Albanians in Kosovo. 
"If you don't stand up to bru­tality and tlw killing 111' innocent rivilians, you invitn tlwm to do morn," Clinton said. 
NATO chiof' .lavinr Solana did not say whon attacks· would start, but. morn than 400 air­cral't from allied nations stood ready to hngin bombing within days cir hours. Half' a doznn U.S. Navy ships wern ready to lnunrl1 cruis11 missilns. 
"Wo must stop an authoritari­an rngimn from rnprcssing its 
NEED AJOB 
for the 1999-2000 academic year? 
Student Activities is now accepting applications for all areas: 
LaFortune Building Managers Stepan Center Managers Ballroom Monitors Office A)sistant~ 
Set Up Crew 
Information Desk Attendants Sound Technicians ND Express Shipping Attendants 
Applications available at 315 LaFortune. Deadline for applying is Thursday, April 1. For more information, call 631-7308. 
the 20th cenlury. We have a moral duty to do so. The rnsponsibility is on our shoul­ders and we will fulfill it," Solana said in Brussels, Bnlgium. 
In meetings Tuesday with Clintcm administration officials, 
U.S. lawmakers said tlwy WPrc told the strikes r:ould come Tuesday night or Wednesday, depending on the wealhcr, according lo participants who spokn on condition ol' anonymi­
ty. 
C.iting an "immi­nnn t threat of war." Yugoslavia dedarnd a nation­wide slate of' nmf!rgency -tlrn l'irsl since World War II -and bngan a massive mobilization or troops and equip­ment to keep its grip on Kosovo, a southPrn province where heavily armed government troops have been battling ethnic Albanian sepa­ratists f'or over a year. · Yugoslavia's defense minister. Pavle Bulatovic, said early Wednesday that the country's army and police units have already been dispersed to avoid casualties during NATO airstrikes. 
Belgrade author­ities urged resi• dents to go about their business nor· mally Wednesday, and said schools. public transporta­tion and other sor-

If you need to do some catching up or want to get a jump on fall, summer classes at Holy Cross College may be just the ticket. Choose one or both sessions, each offering a wide variety of quality general education courses. And pay our summer tuition rate of just $170 per credit hour. 
Take advantage of exceptionally small classes, a dedicated and caring faculty, and our convenient location just to the west of the University of Notre Dame campus. Credit earned is transferable. And on-campus student housing is available. 
You'll enjoy summer activities even more, knowing that you're also getting ahead in your studies. Write or call Holy Cross College today. Applications for Summer Sessions Iand 11, as well as for the 1999 Fall Semester, are now being accepted. 
Session I -May 17 to June 24 
"We will keep monitoring tho situation as it dnv1!1ops and inform the citizens of' what they should do," a member of Urn city council, Dragan Covic, told thn inclependnnt radio station 
B-92. 
After two days of fruitless talks in Belgrnde, U.S. envoy Richard llolbrookn f'lnw Tuesday night to NATO lrnad­quarters in Brussels, where he briefed Solana and ambas­sadors from lhe 19 NATO nations. 
Milosevic, ho said, had not agreed to any of tho measurns the allies wt~rn sPeking to bring 
peace. 
"lie has cho­sen a 1rnth whose consu­
'WE 
llolbrookP

MUST STOP AN 
quences he fully said Milosevic
AUTHORITARIAN
understands by wouldn't Pv1m rejecting our REGIME FROM REPRFSSING discuss two re as O n ab I c ' ITS PEOPLE IN EUROPE AT key points -a 
rational 
cease-fire in requests and THE END OF THE 20TH CEN· Kosovo and 
suggestions," a TRY.' 
somber 
HolbrookP told 
CNN. 

Solana emerged from the meeting with the NATO leadership and announced he had directed NATO commander Gen. Wesley Clark to launch an air opera­tion 
"All efforts to achieve a nego­tiated, political solution to the Kosovo crisis having failed, no alternative is open but to take military action." Solana said. 
Clinton met top lawmakers at the White House, apparently to secure their support for mili­tary action. Lawmakers said later that airstrikes could come as early as Tuesday night -but poor weather was being fore­cast for Yugoslavia on Wednesday, a factor that may affect the timing or NATO 
*uoL-i: C:ROSS COLLEGE 
Office ofAdmissions 

P.O. Box 308 • Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Session II -June 28 to August 5 (219) 239-8400, ext. 22 • Fax (219) 233-7427 e-mail; vduke@hcc-nd.edu 
Lale Tuesday. llrn SnnatH voted 58 to 41 approving tho decision to launch airstrik1is. 
British Prinrn MinistHr Tony Blair laid out llw casn ror action narlier Tuesday to tho Ilousn 111' Commons: "Wn must act to savP thousands or inrrncPnt men, women and children from humanitarian catastroplw. from death, barbarism and nth­nic clnansing by a brutaldicta­torship." 
NATO l'orc11 is designnd to force Milosevic to accept a U.S.­brokcrnd p11at:t! plan to providn interim snlf-rulo to tlw ethnic Albanians who rnako up <JO per­
cnn t of 
Kosovo's 2 
million prn>pln. 

Yugoslavia ·s accPptance of a NATO-l1id J,W/Jill SOI.ANA 28,000 mem-NATO CIIHIF bcr 1rnacc­kueping l'orcc 
which would intlude 4,000 Amnrican troops -to police the deal. 
Russian Prime Ministur Yevgeny Primakov, in a dra­matic gesture or opposition, canceled plans to visit Washington as the crisis inten­sified. Primakov was over tile Atlantic, en route to Washington, but turned his jet around and headed back to Moscow al'tur Vice President Al Gore refused to promise that airstrikcs would not take placn. 
Russian Defonse Ministnr Igor Sergeyev said Hussia would step up its combat readiness if' NATO attacks, the !TAB-Tass news agency reportnd. But despite Hussia's blustPr. 
Moscow has no 1dT11clivc means to prnvent tho NATO action. 
More than 2,000 pnoplo have been killnd in over a year of' fighting in Kosovo. including hundreds si11c11 an October cnasn-firo MilosPvic agreed to but soon violatl'd. 
The U.N. rdugpc ag1incy estimates that 240,000 peopll' am displa1:Pd wil11i11 Kosovo -not.counting 190,000 who already have l1d't. It also says 25,000 havn lmcn f'orcnd l'rom th()ir homes in thn last t'Pw days as Yugoslav troops and Serb police torclrnd villagPs and farms. 
MilosPvic's rnj11ctio11 ol' llolbrookn's mission was dnlivnrr.d formally T1uisday during an cmnrw~ncy sossio11 of' the Serbian parlianwnt. 
The parliamnnt unanimous­ly adopted two resolutions. one rejecting NATO troops and the other nxpressing will­ingness to rcvinw !Im "range and charactnr of an interna­tional prnsencc>' in Kosovo after a political ugrecnwnt on the province was signed. 
Thn genoral-sccretary of Milosevic's Socialist Party, Gorica Gajevic, told the ses­sion: "We am not accepting foreign military troops on our territory undnr any excuse and at any price. even at the pri<~o of bombing." 
"In casf! war is irnpostid on us, we will ddcnd from tlrn aggrnssors with all available means," she added. "And everybody must know that." 
Amid tho preparations for war, Milosevic sacked his mil­itary security chief Tuesday and replaced him with a more compliant ally. 

VIEWPOINT 
-page 10 os~tRvER Wednesday, Marci; 24, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE.: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S 0Fr1CE: 309 Haggar, Notre Oame, [N 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
F.DITOR-!N•ClllFF 
Michelle Krupa 
MANAGING EDITOR 8US!NF.SS MANACFR 
M. Shannon Ryan Dave Rogero 
AS"1STANT MANAGING Er>ITOR He:uher M~t: Ken2ie 

Nr.ws Et>l'lOR ............................Tiin Loi;.an ADVHlT\SING MANAGfR... ... ..... .. ......Bryan Lut·L VIE\"1'01Nl EDITOJ<.....•.....•.Colleen Caugbm An 01-.SIGN M\NAGER ................Kcnn..:th Kcarner Sf'ORfS EDITOR ...........................Brian Kessler SYSTEMS MANAGLR .........................Michad R°'m SCENE En1roas .................. Mich.el Vaneg,s CONTROLLER .•...•.••......•.•••...•.••...Timothy L•n< SAIN'! MARv's EDI roa ..:'.°...Coll«n McCarthy GRAPHICS EDITOR ......•...•...•...•......Joseph Mudler PHOTO EDITOR ........................Kevin Drdum. WEB ADMINISTRATOR .......................Erik Ku.shtok 

lhe Ob..crvc:r ls the-indepc:n1.len1 neW5raper published by rh>l' srudenr... of the Uniwtsio/of Notre Oamc Ju U( and S:iinr Mary's Col!t:g.e. h doa not ncc"~~arily retlect rhc po!ic1es of the .idmin-istrntion t"lf either instltution. The 11ews ii ll.'portcid .._.., ;u.:c.l.lr:1tdy 11n<l c1Uje-,.;(ivcly il~ po~bk Un.Mgned etfaon.tl~ re.?fe.~m t""-: c},inKln oflht; m..;cmcy ,"lfthe 
f..d,1or-in-Chicf, M,1n.1ging Eth.or. A!i.1ol:,1:,ml M.m111ging Edii;or .mJ dcpa.-rrncm editors. Commcmaric.t Jcu.:~ J.nJ column~ prt:11,C!H tlu: \iie\l,'.li oftl.e aurliorll,, and uot 11e..:cs:i.,ui1y thos..-of The Ob~rv.:r. Vi.:wpoinr :,,pao:: ii. av<1ihblt: rn <ill ma.::mkr~ of 1hr: Ni.lm: D..n1dS.tin1 Mary\ 1..ommunity .i.11d ro Jl! rtaJer:.. Th~ frc..: cxpr~ston ofV.tl)•ing opinivn::­dmmgh 1.:m..:r~ L~ cw.:our,1gcJ. 
Co111ac1ini; The Observs;r Ediror-m-Clud 631-/4542 Business Office 631-5313 Manaf;ing: Editor/Asnstant ME (jj 1-4541 Adve-rtisang 63 l ·690018840 New,/Phuto 6jI -5325 Symm, 631-8859 Spom (>.'.ll-4;,45 hx 631-,i927 Scenel/Sllnt Mary's C,Jl-4'.>40 Viewpoinr F-Mail oh~en·cr.vicwpoJnl. l@nJ.c:<lu D•y Edi1or/Viewpoi11r 6Jl-530.'I Ad E-Mail obs~rvt'r<i:.L)darwin.cc.nd.edu OffiiU:" Man:tg~r/G~n~ral fnform.1tion 6.H-7471 N\:W~ E-MJil observ,cr.ob:i.new~.1~·nJ.eJu 

God, Earth, Notre Dame 
To sav that I like to read T-shirts is an understatement, at by the groundskeeping crew, is an idea we can take home best. This variation nf Father llesburgh's theme, "God, with us. Anyone can volunteer to help those who may not be Country, Notre Dame," seems almost more appropriate than able to weed their garden, mow the grass or rake leaves. the original, given a campus population that heralds from This may sound like a "keep the world beautiful" campaign, 
every corner of the world. ==========~====== but the accounts in Genesis do relate Right here at Notre Dame. we can that God found creation "good." We claim a global family, a true and possibly should do what we can to keep it that
JUI·1 e 
never-to-be-had-again opportunity to way, even when it comes to painting grow in our unde1·standing of all God's one's mailbox a cheery color. children. Whether an individual prays to Taking care of the Earth can go far 
the Christian God, Allah, Buddha or the beyond our own homes or this campus,
Ferraro 
Supreme Being by other names, we still too. Membership in responsible environ-have common ground on which to stand. mental organizations can have a global We share dorms. classrooms, and Jan-effect, including preservation of the guage. Whatever the color of our skin, Amazon rain forests or endangered we are part of "God. Earth, Notre Dame." species of animals. Working for the forestry 
There can be another dimension to this _/4 service or local park departm,~nt are motto, however. As we are part of admirable causes for those whose God and part of Notre Dame -interest lies in that direction. having responsibilities to both Most importantly, having a -so we are part of the Earth genuine awareness and and have responsibilities cm appreciation for what we that level. Some people have been given is essen­cc11l it "stewardship," tial. To wonder at a which means·to tend bird's song, or a squir­well what we have al rel's friendly plea for our disposal. Much in handouts. while the the same wav we trees go through thf~ir would not d<':.strov an colorful seasonal expensive textbo;>k, cycle, is gift itself. so we arr, rnquired This ability to ho to prcservn this "present" to th!) l~arth in which we . " moment, to be in the live. ~,,JJ,fll" "hereandnow",is 
Such efforts can , _ really what it means bt' as simple as not ~ to be part of "God, me.king a cigarette ~~ 
Earth, Notre Dame". 
hutt 011 tlw ground lor •_..-4lflll"
..•••­giving up smoking Julie Ferraro's col­entirelyl. Walking · umn runs every other across campus, there are Wednesday. plenty of trash containers The views expressed in where one can drop pop this column are those ofthe cans, sandwich wrappers or author and not neccessarily juice bottles. Taking advantage those of The {)_bserver. of the University's recycling pro­gram gnes one stop further: giving us the chance to wisely re-use our natural resources. 

Planting tnws and flowers, duties handled on campus 
¦ 


Mestrovich Art Too Scattered 
It just came to my ath,ntion that what I had understood as a renovation of the Mestrovich Gallery in the Snitn Museum is in fact a reassignment of that space to serve tlrn musm1m as addition traveling exhibition space. When I first cam hero in 1980, I had been proudly introduced to Mestrovich's gallery in the newly built Snite Museum as the original nucleus around which the university museum was conceived. I am baffled that it is being now ·so nonchalantly donn away with. 
I realize that thn sculpturns will still be seen hearc and there in gerrnral collection and in otlwr buildings on campus. but the artist's studio is no longer. Our grasp of lhe artist's pro­duction as a whole as he saw it, as he worked from oncl to the otlwr, out very uniqwl opportunity lo sec and sho our students an artist's work in such a hornogenous space is gone! We am at a university, if wc1 do not give value to our historiPs in such an environment, we can IWVPI' expert to be able to confront oursclws with our past in out towns and citins. I certain­ly hope the decision of scattnring tlw Mestrovich sculptures around llw campus and the musPum can be halt­ed. and if we must move a sculpture or two to some of our new buildings, please restore the rnst of' the Mestrovichs to the Mestrovich studio. 
Giovanna Lenzi-Sandusky 
Instructor of Italian 
J:mu:iry 27, 1999 


GARRY TRUDEAU 
EVANf7? KING~! YOU tft;TfjN IP, PlitJPt&..' I Nlfa? P/HAT'Ri; A /,./V/N6f()JNfJTHATe£atl1£C,7URe/<. KliYN/73/ANea:JNOM/'5T YO(JI?. !(ff,· IAIAG/3, ANfJ 
Y8T?Ivee,ormKJ/JSWAIT­-~ 'IRE-70 ~ ?R£AT­
ING IN aJMM/N§ HAU! CO{JR§e rt.N75?' /;ll UK& A 
HIJMAN9f;li 
-


'onereason I don't 
drink is that I want to know when I am having a good time.' 
-Lady Nancy Astor 
1· 7 


VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

Wednesday, Mardi 24, 1999 ---------------BSERVER page 11 
¦ MtSfRff:r: Mtt, DEUS 
Whack the Piggies of Complacency 
'llww yo11 :wen {/1(' little pigyie,-;, rolling in the of prudence. Without prudence we lend to mis­dirt ... al1Nt,11s hmie rlen.n .o;hirls ... what they guidedly pursue wrong ends, ones which though need',o; a damn yrmd 1rlwrkin_q ... clrtlr:hiny.{orks we may l'e1\l VPry passionate about, do not work and k11i1ws lo ,,M the bucon. · for the ultimate good of community. 
-'Pirmies. ·"/'he !Jen.ties I must admil to being somr,wlmt. disturbfld rncnntly whnn asked to sign a petition about one 
ComplarP1w.y is a IJad thing. It implies a con-of our cam1>us controversies. I was given the tPnlm1i11t with tlw pn•s1•11t order of things thnt sp111~ch about how unjust this certain policy of rnntradirLs a c1•11trnl call that Chrisliuns face, Uw ,Ldministrnlion is, and that the petition was 11111• to changn tlll' world around thnm. For all my the only way to change tho minds of the adminis­disagrnPnwnts with tlwm, !:!!!=~========-===~ tration. I quostioned the peli­
1wopln likP S1mn Vinck and Uorwr about the justice ol' the lh1• l'SA ar«-not as com-cause: whether it conformed
N th 
placimt a!-i I ollPn um. a an to the Catholic character of Tlwy sp1•ak passinnatdy Notre Dam,1, and whether and of't1•11. criticizing thn what it was asking for was sot:h\ly around t.lwm in practically obtainable. I was
Hannan 
ho1ws that llwy wifl bring told that "Oh, that doesn't ahoul. changP. rnatt!'r, it's al! about peoples' 
C1•rtainly tlwrn an• sonw rights." dang11rs in IH•1:oming pas-I become concerned when sionatl' about issun:-;. Oft,•ntimns by doing so one we campaign !'or individuals' rights for the sole 1·an Im blinded by oun's passions. and pursue an purpose of getting individuals more rights. It id,•al which is not in kc,\ping with mason or may be trun that without certain guarantees 1110ralily. This is why true non-complacency has people am vulnerable to injustice. On the other two rn<111inn11nnts: both that we am passionate hand, at what point does tho notion ol' individual f'or tllf' caus,•s that W(' pPrcPivn to Im true and rights becomn destructive to the community as a jusl. and also thal WP striv(~ to possess tho virtue whole, both in its character and functionality? 
Devr.loping a propr.r response to the call of' 
r faith to defeat our complacency and encourage proper notions ol'justice seems a very diflicult thing to do. Fortunately we have good examples likn Dr. King. Glmndi, and Mother Teresa to show the righl way and the right means to go about our quests for justice, examples which also show the right way to go about using means like fasting, sit-ins. and the like. We are also provided with exhorters on our very own cam­pus: Fr. Baxt,ir's somewhat radical but very orthodox approach Lo social justice is a good nxamplc. !tis a difficult road that we are called to, but not an impossible one -encouraging, since l doubt that anv of us would like to.exem­plify The Beatles· littie piggies above, rolling in the dirt or injustice but unwilling to get our shirts dirty for the good of others. The Healles say that we arc cannibals ifwc don't respond; we had better pay attention. We must also keep in mind tho absolute necessity to use prudence and reason when deciding what to fight for. 
Nalhaniel llannan is afreshmanjoint theology and philosophy major. /le may be reached al llannan.3@nd.edu. 
The view expressed in this column are those of lhe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
¦ i t:TTER 10 THE EDITOR 
Snyder Letter Too Hasty 
1".llucation is tlw only weapon we have against the homophobia of this rampus and that nf' our society in gcnoral, and when I say 'we,' I mean anymw. homosnxu,d or heterosnxual, who wanl'i to see harmony among tlw many diffonmt people of our world. 
ThnrP will be no grnat leap from f'nar to acceptance or from ignorance lo und(irstanding. It will nol happen "now" as Ms. Snyder wishes (Letter to thn liditor, March 17, 1999), no matter how much wr, may want it to. !L will Im a gradual process which requires educators to bring the misled to an informml understanding of what homosexuality means and who homosexuals am. 
Snydnr states that she is labclc! as the "gay friend" and the "lesbian clown tlw hall" and s,ws tilis as taking away from lwr individuality. If shn usrnl this labnl in tho right way, however, shn could become one ol' lhc educators. ! hav11 a gay frinnd (please excuse me for using the dn•afl(•d labelI. lfot'or11 knowing him, I saw gay pn()p]e solely as a group, flf'Vf't' thinking about tlrn individuals who comprisn it, so I can undnr­sta11d why Ms. Snyder foels as though she is not seen as an individual. Th1\ only vi1•w availahln to me was Llw homophobic view and I was not wPll Pnough informed to irnnk another more lolcrnnt attitude towards the issun. Ilow(wer, my 1ww friendship taught me to so<1 thal gay is not the only or evm1 dominant. characteristic of the people who am. 
1'1irhaps Snyd11r can use her obvious dntcrmination and dm,irc for bet­lPr conditions for gay pnoplc and use the fact that she is the 'local repre­sr•n tativn of' la! queur nation' Lo open people's eyes to not only her indi­vi,luality and u11iqtw1wss but that individuality that all gay people pos­s1iss. It is surely not wise. however, lo rnacl with profanity, resentment and a11g11r, which can lead only to thn atmosphere of hatred thal she sp,•aks of. I do not deny that this can be a frustrating situation or that it is hard to nm hostility with a smile. On the othnr hand, it would not be productivn for hostility to be met with even morn hostility. 
1lomophobia will only cease to nxist when people can sec that tlrnrc is nothing to foar. 
Maren Diamante 
Freshman, Lyons Hall March 22, l 999 


¦ LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Administration Infringes on Legal Rights, Including the Right to Choose 

I would like to draw a simple distinction for Catriona Wilkie which she seems to have overlooked (most likely on purpose). Certainly the OtTicP. or Drug and J\lcohol Education would not and should not refer students to "the area's best cocaine clnalnrs." That would be explicit endorsement of an ILLEGAL activity. We all know, however, that abortion is legal. A woman has tlrn RJGIIT to get an abortion. Americans ar<i not legally bound to live by the rules of the Catholic Church, thank God. 
Beyond the right to an abortion, Americans have freedom of speech and ol' association. So far. all thn action:-; of thn Wom1m's Resource Center. as described by you, fall within their Inga) rights as Americans. We know quite we!I, however, that tlrn Notrn Dame administration wants us -forcr.s us -to check our t,igal rights at the door when wn enter the University. 
You, Catriona. support tho administration in its nl'forts. What you fail to recognize is that the administration is distinct. from thn student body. The goals of the administration are not ner.essarily consistent with the needs of all students (see the non-recogni­tion/expulsion of GLND/SMC file). In fact, student needs may at times be in conflict with administrational mandates. 
At this point, the support and solidarity that a student pner group offers is invaluable. 
Let's pretend for a second that we're capable of qunstioning what the Catholic Church hands down to us by way of tfw Notre Dame administration. 
A bunch of men who presumably have never had sex in their lives are telling young women what they can and cannot do with their own female bodies. This is, in effect. what you advocate by your efforts to bring down the WHC and silence the voices of car­ing young women who reach out to their peers in time of nnnd. Maybe what your "alone and frightened out of her mind 18 year old" really needs is an abortion. And guess what? 
She has the right to it. 
Judy Amorosa Senior, Lyons Hall March 2J. I 999 

Wilkie Misinforms On WRC Probation 
Ms. Catriona Wilkie succeeded in excluding information or rnf­enmce on how to obtain an abortion, abortion servicns or birth control information from the Notro Damn Womnn's Besourcn Center. 
Neither Ms. Wilkie nor Ms. Gabany allege or offer evidence sug­gesting the WHC proactivoly recomrnendod or counseled abortion as a solution to their "problems." 
They allege iuclusiou of i11f'orm1ttio11 about birth control alld abortion Sf'irVic(is "contravenn(s) the ... moral fabric on which (Notre Dame) is founded." 
The Faculty Senate found the moral fabric of the Univorsity was trivialized by the unilateral decision of' the Office of' Student Activities placing the WRC on probation. 
In the United States, tho identity of any Univnrsity. induding any Catholic University, should be established by statutos rnquir­ing faculty participation in such decision, unlnss llrn University publkally declares its unwillingness to permit such pnrticipation. 
A. Edward Manier 

Professor Philosophy & Hist(Jry and Philosophy of Science Reilly Cenrer for Science, Technology and Values Mmh 23, 199') 
B u s s 

page 12--------------OBSERVER -----------Wednesday, March 24, 1999 

Summer lnternsLip Program 
The NDCIBD has sent upwards of 250 students to work abroad in such places as Waterford Crystal in Ireland, AT&T in Russia, Arthur Andersen in England, the Office of the President of the Czech Republic, the American Embassy in France and Eaton Corporation in Brazil. 

The NDCIBD provides low-cost, professional market research and other consulting work for domestic companies seeking to expand their busineses into international makets. Projects have included market research into the Asian markets for Louisville Slugger and research into Latin America for Papa John1s. 
International Forums 
The NDCIBD has typically hosted two large-scale conferences per year and hosted such renowned individuals as Dr. Marshall Goldman of Harvard University ("Capitalism 101: Russia's Challenge" -April '97), Mr. Tom Hoenig, President of the Federal Reserve Board of Kansas City, Mr. Eui-Yong Chung, Economic Minister, Embassy of the Republic of Korea ("The Globalization of Korea" -April '96} and the Honorable Mohammed Ali Thiam, Ambassador to the United States, the Republic of Guinea. 
B u 
cen 
s s 
Wednesday, March 24, 1999 -------------------
-----------------------page 13 
The Notre Dame Council on International Business Development Presents: 

By MONICA PARK International Business Council is an organization of' profossionals, many of whom \u.'IH.' \XI I ill'I arc alumni of' the Notre Dame Council on lntc\rnational Business llevPlopnwnl.
This w11Pk!'1HI, the Notn• Dame Council on l11lPrnational Busi1wss DPvPlopm1!lll cclP­hratPs ils 10th i\1mivPrsary. Tlw Council startf'd in llH' Spring of l'J89 and has sinrn lH•comn thP largPsl studnnt academic organization al Notre DamP. Its mission is to empower students to !wild a11d !Pad tlw world's prnmicr organization that globally atlva1H·es Pthical comnwrce. Thn purposl' of' tll!' orga11izalio11 is lo foster !tiadnrship dPvt•loplll«'lll, Plhical comnwn:P, nntrnprP1ieurial a!)ility and global i11ll'ra1'.lio11. Through tlin rlPdica­lion ofs1•wral Notn· llanll' students, past and pm-St'lll, lfw Coumil has co11Lin1wd to challnnge slu­dP11ts in llw past ckcadP and provicln them with i11valtutl1ll' opportunitit•s in tlw global markPL This wc•c•k11111l's 1·1'1nbration is dedicated Lo Frank l'olf'llZiani, IH•1wf'artor and co-founder of t.lw Nolrt' l>anH• Council 011 lntnrnalional Business 1)1•v1•lop11w11l. NllClllD 11wmbers dc!scribe him as a 1111•111.or and advisor wlws,i unceasing support of tlw Council has motivated thorn to elevate the organization to its <·.tirn•nt calib1ir of' nxccllencc. 1'11tP11zia11i is a I%7 graduate Notre Damn, and is a prival€' invc•stor hast!d out ol' Albuquerque. lie 
als1o st•1rv1is on t!w kBo1'.tKrcl of' D~n•ctors for tlw 
F1!C t•ra ll••snrv1! Han· o ·a11sas City. 
Tlw ('Vl'llt ki1·ks off this l;riday at the Mishawaka Bn•wing Company, wlwrn ClllTCllt Board members and IBC llntcirnational Business Councill members 
can gatllf'r wlwn tlrny arrive Friday evening. The 
Onn IBC mmnber is even llying in from Australia to attend this wccknnd's events. On Saturday, the Council is sponsoring "Capitalism 102: Will Hussia Survive?" ---------------------------...... opnn to all students, f'arulty and nwmbers of 
AGENDA 

. . · . . . . . . . · > . ·:jt('
Colleoe of Business Administration 
6 

Jordan Auditorium 
,,,,,, ···.•.· 

12:30•1 p.m. Introduction 1 1 45 Keith Bush 
" : p.m. dt 
1:50-2:3& p.m. Peter Rutland 
2:50•3:10 p.m. 
3:10•.4.... ··••,•··"'···~m•· • effN ..
.. .. ·· 
r. ~~imc;:.. 
4·4:45 p.m.. Discussion 
the South Bend community. Tlw Council is honored to present the following distin­guished scholars of' Hussia and tlrn Hussian economy -Keith Bush from the Ccntcir for Strategic and International Studios, Pel!ir 
Hutland, Professor at Wesleyan Univnrsity and Richard Pipes, Professor Hmeritus al ... llarvard University. Thn topics of' tlw con­!'erence include "The Prospects for Hussian Economic Growth," "Hussia's flawed transi­lion" and "Russia's Present, Bussia's Future." The conference bngins at 12:30 
p.m. in Jordan Auditorium, al tlw College of' Business Administration and will last until 
4:45.. 

The day will conclude with a formal din­ner al the Morris Inn to honor all the work over the past decade that has led to the prn­sent success o!' the Notrn Dame Council on International Business Developnwnl. Saturday evening's gala is also intended to honor Potenziani, who, as Hyan Kerrigan, 
dlBC 11:1bember..ahnd •tlum1nus· or1Notrn n1amn1,
11
escri es as t et 10ug 1t-eac er, coac 1 a11C friend that has been so instrumental at every step along the way." In addition, each of the past presidents will attend and will bn honored. 
The Speakers 
Peter Rutland 
Wesleyan University 

"Russia's Flawed Transition" 
P<•lt•r Hutla.1Hl is a. prol'Pssor c.11' govern­11H•11l al Wcsl<\yan University and an associate of' tlw Davis Cc:ntcr for Hussian Studins at llarvard Uuivtirsily. lln has a BA l'rom Oxford t:nivPrsily and a l'h.lJ from the University of' York. 11,, mowd l'rom Britain lo the U.S. in 11)8:"i. l;rorn I <J95-I1J•J7 tin was on leave from Wnsh•y1u1 llniwrsity and sorvPd as assistant dircclor f'or rosParch at tlw Oµen Media l(psean:h Instil lllf' in l'ragun, the research arm of Hadio Frne 1':l1roµ1\/l{adio Libnrty. lie is tlw author of lwo hooks on Sovi<il polilical !•c·onomy and editor of' tlrn annual survey of dnv1)l11p11wnts in the l'nrmor socialist countries for Urn l•:ast-Wesl Institute. l!11 covnrs the llussia11 nconomy for tile .Jam<istown Fo1111dalio11's daily Monitor. In summer 19()8 hf' was a visiting follow at. the Slavic lfosoarch C,•.nlf'I" in llokkaido, .lapa11. llis most recent rnsnan:h pro_jncts havn b,inn on Orn Hussian oil and gas industry and on corruption in Hussia. 
0 
Keil~ Huslia 
Center for Strategic and International Studies 
K
"The Prospects for Russian Economic Growth" 
eith Bush was educated at Dulwich College, at the Hoyal Military 
Academy Sandhurst and at the 
Hussian Hc•soarch Center of Harvard University. Ile snrved in tho British Army for 14 years. with combat tours in Egypt, Cyprus and Malya. After graduate work at Harvard, he joined Hadi() Free Europe/Radio Liberty (RFF/RL) in Munich, wlrnrc he rose to direct lladio Liberty Hcsearch, supporting the 21­broadcast service and the HFE/HL He initiated and developed both the weekly IUiE/EI lleport and the HFrvHL Daily Ilnport, which were cir­culated to thousands of' government. academic and media observers of the former Soviet Union. Bush has taught al tho University of Munich and at the Colorado Colloge, and speaks Hussian, German and French. He jnined CSIS in June 1994. 
Ricli.ard Pipes 
Harvard University ·­
"Russia's present, Russia's future." 
Rchard Pipes is a Frank B. Baird Jr. 
{esearch Professor of I listory at I larvard 
University. lie is also a Baird Profossor of 
listory, Emeritus. Pipes has ber.11 a foculty member of Harvard University since 1950. !In obtained his Bachelor's Dcgrnn al Muskingum College, Ohio (1943), his A.B. at Cornclll Univnrsity (1945). his Ph.D. al llarvard University (19501 and a Doctor llonoris Causa from tlw University of Silnsia, Poland (1994). Pipes is an authority on tho Hussian Revolution and tho former Sovil\t Union, as an actiw participant in the Hepublic of G1•orgia, rncniving the honor and award of Honorary Citizen (l997) and Consul (1997-present) and serving as an PXpert in the trial of the Communist Party of' tlrn Soviet Union (1992). lie has bmrn a mmnbnr of' tlrn ExncutivP Committee of the Committee on the Pn~snnt Dangl'I" (1977-1992). has chaired for tho U.S.-SoviPt Relations Task Force (1998), has been Dirc-ctor of' the East European and Soviet Affairs or tlw National Security Council (1981-1982) and acted as consul­tant for several organizations. In addition, he has authored many books, most recently "PropPrly & Preedom" (1999). 
page 14 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, March 24, 1999 
¦ WOMEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Championship U{fJ for graOs with Tennessee's exit 
verge of.'' 

Tem1essee's loss deprived the Final 
The women's Final Four has a new Four of the game's biggest star, -and many would say yvelcome --, ChamiqileHoldscla.w. But tbt:t's sWI twist this year. ;plenty<of'sta,r po~rJntho fielii, start• 
There's actually some suspense over ing witJi Purdm.''s outstanding senior who'll win the national championship. duo ofStephanie White-McCarty and 
That wasn't the case last year, when Ukari Figgs. Tennessee stormed into the Pinal Four White~McCarty, like Holdscla\\', was a with a 37-0 record, then blew away unanimous All-Ameril:an this year and Arkansas and Louisiana Teeh to win its has led her team to 30 straight victo­third straight NCAA title. ries. She and Figgs combined for 22 of 
Tennessee didn't even make the Final Purdue's final 26 points Monday night Four this year, leaving it to. Louisiana as the Boih,1rmaker$ <:>arne frorn behind Tech, Purdue, Duke and Gcorgiatc( to hea.fRutgers 7.!h62 .in the~Iidwest decide matters in San Jose, Calif., this Regional. weekend. Jn a Left Coast Final Four, Barmore said he voted for White­the Lady Vols were left out, eliminated McCarty as the nation's No. 1 player by Duke in the East Regional final. over Holdsclaw because "she took a 
"Duke showed us that this game. is' lesiiJ tale,µ(ed team·:t!Jan Te11tie~~e. and getting spread out," Louisiana Tech. look where the.v are." . coach Leon Barmore said. "It's so good Louisiana Tech is the most athletic for the game. Everybody. bas some team in the field. Forward Amantla hopes and dreams, and it's not going to WHson \YaS a second-team All• be the same team all the time: And that America:n; gaard Tfi,:tnicha)ack>on can is so good to see." break down just about any defense and 
Louisiana Tech (30-2) plays top-MaxweH has played well in the tourna­rnnked Purdue (32-1) in the second mcnt. semifinal Friday night, a showdown Genrgla ha,s its sopbom~.re twins, between the only No. 1 seeds left in th¢ · Kelly t\,lld <:ocd ·Mflfor, ·while r::>,tke is a tournament. Georgia (27-6} and Duke well:halanc::ed teain built around 6­(28-6), both No. 3 seeds, meet in the foot-6 Michele VanGorp, a third-team first game. All-American. 
"It's wide open now," Louisfail~ Purct~~·stourna,rn.(lntrunhasi:l:\'.tend­Tech's Monica Maxwell saJd. ''It's any0• ed theteriure of coach Carolyn Peck, body's championship to win," who is leaving at the end of the season 
Louisiana Tech, making its 10th Final to become the coach and general man­Four trip, is the only school in the field ager ofthe WNBA's Orlando Miracle. that has won a national championship, And ~bile the Bojll}rmaken(ride has The Lady Techsters won. the first NC¾ been s~pOth;lt ba:su'lahvays been that title in 1982 and also won in 1988. way for White-McCarty and Figgs, who They lost to Tennessee 93-75 in last have played underthree coaches. year's championship game. Lin Dunn was dismissed after their 
Georgia made it for the third time hi freshm.,rn'season, anpmost ofpie plar• five years and the fifth time overall, ers tran.sferred. l)qnn's repl!!,cement, while Purdue is making its second Nell Foftner, stayed only one year Final Four trip. Duke is a Final Four before being named coach of the U.S. rookie, but after knocking off national team. Peck was Fortner's Tennessee 69-63 on Monday night. th() assistant. .· . ... Blue Devils won't be backing dowti "We d&h't look at the past,Vfl:l don't from anyone. look what we've been through," Figgs 
Plus, there's school pride to uphold. said. "We just play for now. We know Duke is the first program to have its that no.ne of the things we've been men's and women's teams in the Final •. througp. are goingoto l)urt ()f help us..... 
Four since Georgia in 1983. riow." i . . . ··••·······•· ··.····. . . . . .··.. ··•-·•·. ··.. .· ··• "I felt that ff the men's program Interestingly,lwo of the players who could do it here, the women's program left Purdue are now standouts at Duke could do it here,,. said coach Gail -VanGo:rp and Ni99le Ericksob. They Goestenkors, who has hein at Duke .couJd l11~~t up \3/itp.their old;t~am in 
since. 1992. "That's what we're ontht!c the championshipJta.me. . . 
¦ NATIONAL BASl<HBALL ASSOCIATION 
Toronto wrap up Bulls for first time ever in Chicago 
Associated Press used a 13-2 run to take a fi 1-40 lead on Sabonis' hook with 7::-!4 left in the CHICAGO period. With Hider scoring 1 I points in 
Dee Brown hit seven three-pointers the quarter, the Blazers took a 65-57 and scored a season-high 25 points as lead into the fourth. the Toronto Raptors won at Chicago But the Warriors rallied behind a for the first time ever, 113-90 Tuesday pair of 22-foot jumpers by John Starks 
night. and cut tlw Blazers' lead to 74-72 with 
The Raptors, who had lost their pro­:{:17 remaining on live straight pointsvious six games at Chicago, led 31-9 by Danyell Marshall. The Warriors had after the first quarter. Toronto went a shut at a tie, but Coles missnd a 15­on to win for the sixth time in seven foot shot with 1::B left in the game
games overall. and Wallace made two free throws 14 
The Bulls madP just 2 of 20 shots in seconds later for a four-point Blazers Lhe first quarter. Toronto reeled off a lead. 2:1-3 run in the final 6:04 of the period. The Warriors still had chanc11 until • 
Vince Carter scored 14 points in the Starks missed his 15th shot in 20 first quarter and Brown had 14 in the attempts and Hider made two free second. giving the Hap tors a 66<19 throws with 22 seconds to put the lead at halftime. game out of' reach. 
Bulls star Toni Kukoc left the game midway through the second quarter CAVALIERS 113, CELTICS 86 because of a lower back strain. Rusty Larue scored l 5 points for Chicago Weslny Person scornd 19 points and and Kornel Da.vid had 12 points and 11 Shawn Komp scored six straight dur­rebounds. ing a 10-0 Clevnland run in tho third 
Carter led the Haptors with 23 points quarter to power thc Cavaliers past and 11 rebounds. John Wallace added the Roston Celtics l I:l-86 Tuesday 15 points. night. 
Kemp had 13 points, seven r!\bounds TRAILBLAZERS 79, WARRIORS 72 and two assists in the third quarter as Cleveland used a 19-4 run to rr,gain Isaiah Rider scored 13 of his 15 command in response to a 14-4 Boston 
points in the second half as the spurt to open the second half. Portland Trail Blazers held on for a Celtics rookie Paul Pierce scored 79-72 win over the Golden State eight points in the first :1:30 of tlw sec­Warriors on Tuesday night. ond half as Boston whittled a I<>-point 
The Warriors, who were led by halftime deficit to 58-52. Jason Caffey's 18 points and 11 A slam dunk by l'ornwr C1dtir rebounds, rallied to cut the Blazers' Andrew DeClercq started thn Cavaliers lead to 74-72 with 3:17 left in the on their decisive run. game. Cleveland led by 21 after throe quar­
But Golden State missed its last live ters and began the fourth with a 9-0 shots while Rider and Wallace each run. keyed by fivn points by Danny made a pair of free throws for the win. Ferry, for its largest l11ad at 92-62. 
Arvydas Sabonis had 14 rebounds Antoine Walker led Boston with 22 and 11 points. Brian Grant added 13 points. Vitaly Potapnnko, acquired in a points and 12 rebounds for the March 11 trade for DnClcrcq, had 10 Blazers, who have won 12 of 13 at points and 12 rebounds in 34 minutes home. in his first game against his former 
Bimbo Coles scored 17 points for the team. Warriors. For Cleveland, Kmnp scored 17 and Neither team shot well for most of Declercq had 16 in 22 minutes, one the game, especially in the fourth short of his career high. quarter when the Blazers made only 3 It was Cleveland's second consecu­of 15 and the Warriors 7 of 21. For the tive blowout home win over the Celtics. 
game, the Warriors shot 31 percent The Cavaliers won 116-99 at Gund and the Blazers 35.6 percent from the Arena on March 2. Pierce scored only field. two points in that game, missing all 11 
Early in the third quarter the Blazers of his shots from the fiold. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. co 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds musr be prepaid.
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhc right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
SUMMER EMPLOYMENT: ART EDUCATION 
ILOST & FOUND I 
ASSISTANT SNITE ART MUSEUM.Ge\ 
teaching experience while Lost: 100 CDs that were in a black making a difference in South CaseLogic carrying case. Lost in Bend1Assist Education LaFortu~e the night of 2126199. Curator with summer youth Monetary reward being offered if art program focusing on found. No questions asked. museum ob1ects and art Please call Brian at 4-1126 w/ any making.June 1-July 30,15-20 info. hours per week.Fine Arts &educa­
lion majors with exp 
teaching &/or working with 
children preferred.INCLUDES LOST: Gold Locket, Oval -if ROOM & BOARD June 20 found: call Victoria, x4659 July 30. 
(6/20-7/30,addilional Work 
Study hours-if eligible-with 
National Youth Sports LOST GLASSES Program.for total 40 hrs/wk if Grey Frames desired)CALL ASAP for Hard. Leather Case application form 631-4435 If Found, Call Rebecca x1464 App. deadline April 6. 
WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6BEDROOM STARTING $165 
MONTH/PERSON 232-2595 
House For Rent 4-5 Bedroom Close to Campus Includes: Dishwasher, Washer/Dryer, Fridge, Stove. Remodeling Kitchen in spring. RENT REDUCED! Call 289-4712 
Tri-level 3 bdrm house, 1-1/2 mi. from campus across from park with 1-112 baths, family room with fire­place. 2-car garage, fenced-in back yard. AC, stove, refrig, W/D, G/D & DNI. $995/mo. 663-5038 or 232­4527 
6 BDRM HOMES. NEAR CAMPUS. FURN. 272-6551 Laura: 16
TICKETS 
Amy:7 
Detinitely not a contest. 

need graduation tickets! Definitely a blow-out. 2 Bdrm Apt at College Park to sub-Call Kelly @243-6932 lease for summer session. Call 4-Geez. Amy, GET TO WORK! 3620. NEED 2 graduation tix 
Call John @271-8531 

Second floor apt. available for sum­mer at College Parle 2 bed/ 2 bath, washer/dryer, A/C. Calf 271­8966 
SUMMER SUBLEASE Upper COLLEGE PARK 2 Bdrm, A/C, wash/dryer also FURNITURE in great cond. couches, tables, beds Call 273-2917 
THE COUNTDOWN IS ON: 

PERSONAL 
2 1/2 weeks 

When you need copies ...  THE FLORIDA EVANS  
We're OPEN!!!  SHOWBAND AND REVUE's  
THE COPY SHOP  17 song cd  
Lafortune Student Center  
631-COPY  see Florida Evans this Friday  
Mon-Thur: 7:30am•Midnight  at 18195 Bulla Road  
Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm Sat Noon-6:00pm  ......................................."'**  
Sun: Noon-Midnight  PYTHAGORAS' 1999 COLLEGE  
FOOTBALL BOOK  
COUNTDOWN TO THE  The Best Book Ever Written About  
••  LEWIS CRUSH "  Ranking College Football Teams!!!  
17 DAYS  The World's Greatest  
will YOU be invited?  Mathematicians Rank the College  
Football Teams!  
Is mom coming lo town?  Charm  Only $19.95!  
her at Molly's with a cappuccino or a mocha.  Call 1-4543 tor more information. ••••••••••••••a•••••••••••••••••••  

Freshamn taking gen chem looking 
WANTED 

for a roomate for the summer ses­
sion. Call Peter at 4-0992 if interest­ed. 
Babysitter needed in my 
home Flexible day time hours Call 
243-5540. Molly McGuire's Coffee House "a 
great place to workl" 
immediate /summer help needed. Mystery Shoppers Wanted Applications available. 
You dine.We pay. 2 years professional bar/dining e)(perience required.Why not enjoy FOR RENT 
a meal out on us?Call PDB Management Company BED 'N BREAKFAST 1-888-656-7999. REGISTRY 
219-291-7153 New 3.4 bdrom home for lease. Fireplace, family room, 2-car garage. 2 full baths. All deluxe appls. A/C. $1200/mo. 232-4527 or 663-5038. 
STAYING IN SOUTH BEND FOR THE SUMMER??? Lovely five-bedroom, single family house available for sub-lease. About a mile from campus. Safe neighborhood. Clean. Two window air-conditioners. Washer and dryer, stove, refrige. Call 634-0562 for info. 
FOR SALE 
NEW Rates Phone Cards 282 min. $20 call 258-4805 
Beautiful brass bed.queen size.with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame.New.never used.still in plas• tic.$235 219-862-2082 
New Notebook Computer 200MHz,32MB.2.1GB for sale. Hurry up. Denis 634-4551 
Beth. Check through the paper. How many licks does it take to get -Mike to the center of a Tootsie Roll Pop? 
Wanted:  
Two women seek two buff young  Congrats to the Yankees for being  
men for Robin Hood-esque fantasy  the best-ever team  
world. Theiving abilities a ~ust.  
Rob from the rich to feed E us.  
Keep us in the lap of luxury. Call  We're on in five, four, three, two...  
Amy in St. Louis if interested.  


Serious inquiries only. please. 
-----· ----

WeJnesday, March 24, 1999 page:: 15
The Observer• SPORTS ~~-----________________;;,__;;;.___ 
¦ NHL 
Red Wings lead retooling effort as trade deadline passes 
Thn two-limn fipf"1rnding Stanl11y Cup champion I>nt.roit lh•d Wings madtl cnrlain they will IHLVl' no shortage ol' leader­ship when tlwy aclcl1\d 51) years of nxpt!l'11ll1Ct\ to their roster T1wsrlav. 
Thn ik<l Wings, hardy over .500 nl ]4-:m-<,. nrndn a flurry or d,•,ds prior to thn 3 p.m 1.radt> 1ltla<llilw. Thny adclPd dPf1•11sP111a11 Chris Chnlins and Ulf Samunlsson, wing Wnndnl Clark, a11d backup goaltm1dnr 
Bill Hanliml. 
Thi'-Blarklrnwks will rnccivc dc-t·,n1s1•111an And11rs 1:riksson and tirst-rnuncl draft picks in I1)91) and 200 I !'or Clwlios, who has cdght goals and 2(1 assists in <,:i ganws this s1•aso11. 
lit• is a ki!y adclition to thu H<•d Wings' dPph•t1•d d1•('1•11siv1\ corps. which 111ay bf\ without Uw1• Krupp and Tod<l (;ill for !lw n•sl of' tlw iwason duo to injuriPs. 
Known as a IJlWlity two-way dPfrllsPma n who will add 1.011gli11Pss, tlw :n-ynar-old Chl'lios lws won thn•1· Norris Trophy awards as l!H· lcuguc's top ddn11sl'ma11 in a l (1-yoar 
llPtroil also LrndPd bar.kup goallP1Hi<·r K1\vin llodson and two draft pil'.ks to Tampa Bay for Clark and Hanford and dealt lwo pirks to l.lw i'fow York l!angPrs l'or llw i11jurPci San11uilsson. 
ThP :!2-yi•ar-old Clark, in his 141h s;•ason. was tlw l.ighlning's !Pacli11g scori•r with 28 goals a 11d 14 assists in 6:i 
g'H Ill PS. 
l!a111'ord appt',ll"Pd in 32 gaml's and rompilcd a ]-18-J rPrnrd in his 14th NIii. SPason. 
llodson. 27. is 0-2-0 in four gamPs with IJPtroil !his sPason. his l'o11rlh in thn NIii.. 
Tlw l!Pd Wings acquirnd Sam11Plsson. who is out 2-:1 Wl'Pks with a hrnkl'fl l'oot, for a 
1999 sncond-round pick and a third-round suleclio11 ill 2000. 
Samul'lsson has four goals and has eight assists in 67 ganrns in his third season with t.lrn Hangers. 
Detroit wasn't llrn only team making multipl•i moves. Last year's Stanley Cup finalist, tlrn Washington Capilals, now in 
12th plac11 in Lim Eastern Conferoncc, unloadnd three vct­1wans. 
LongtinHi captain Dain Bunter was senl lo Urn Colorado J\valanchtJ, wing Joo Juneau was dealt to tho Buffalo Sabres u11d wing Craig Berube lo the l'hiludclphia Flyers. 
Thn Avalanclrn gave Washington a I<J<JCJ s1icond­rou11d dntl't pick in 1•xchango for lluntcr and a third-round Sllioclion in 200(). Juneau, who has 14 goals and 27 assists this season, was dealt with a 1999 third-round pick to the Sabres for minor lcagun dofcns(]man Alnxei Tezikov and fulure co11sid1•rations. lkrubn will join tlw Flynrs in exchange for future considnrations. 
•·tt·s hePn rnally tough, roally cmoliunal, al'tcr what we acC'.omplishnd Ins! year," Capitals gennral manager Ceorge Mt:l'IHHl s,Lid. "Pulling t.lrnsc guys out of the mix wasn't nasy. but llwy·n~ all unrnstrictf•d fren agents and W!~ wcrnn 't going to get anything !'or llwm this sumnwr if they sig,wd nlsewhnrn." · 
In other dcials. Philadelphia udt!Pd one or the top offcnsivo d1d'e11seman in Urn league by securing Steve Duchnsnn from Los Angnlcs for defonsman llavn Babych and l'ifth-rouncl draft pick in 2000. 
Duclws1w had four goals and ) 1) assists in (10 gamns. 
San Jose obtained center Vincnnt Damphousse from the Monlrnal Canadiens for a 1999 f'irth-round draft pick and a 2000 sncond-rouncl seleclion. 
NOTRE DAME GOLF ~OURSE 
Open daily 7-5 Rockne Memorial 
Season Pass now available $125.00 
Valid on 9 hole course only Student daily 9 hole rate $5 Add'I 9 $3 Student Club Rental $5 Call 631-6425 f'or Tee Times 

..... rlal.. 
VARSITY SHOP VARSITY SHOP
.... Softball 
..­

vs. Toledo 
Saturday, March 27@ 1pm vs. Bo-»7lingGreen 
Sunday, March 28@ 12pm 
All Students get in FREE!!!! 

KAT Photo Chris Chelios will join fellow defenseman Ulf Samuelsson, wing Wendel Clark and goaltender Bill Ranford as Detriot's newest verterans. Chelios joins the Red Wings after a long career with Chicago. 
Damphoussn has 12 goals and  Lombardi said. "This guy has  
24 assists in (15 games.  played  at  a  high  level  and  
"Obviously,  the  guy's got  played for Team Canada.  so  
some darned good credentials,"  there's more to him than just  
Sharks general manager Dean  numbers."  
The Sharks also got wing  
Greg  Pankewiecz  from  the  
Calgary  Flames  for  future  
considerations.  
The Edmonton Oilers picked  
up defenseman .Jason Smith  
from the Toronto Maple Leafs  
for  a  1999 fourth-rouncl and a  

2000 second-round pick. 
Smith. 2:i, has two goals, 11 assists and 40 penalty minutes in 60 gamns. 
The St. Louis Blues re­acquired wing Blair Atcheynum for a sixth-round Entry Dral't pick in 2000. 
Toronto obtained cnnter Yanic Pnrreault from Uw Los Angeles Kings for minor-lnagun rorward .Jason Podollan and a '99 third-round draft pick. 
Women's Lacrosse 
vs. Ohio State 
Friday, March 26 @ 4 pm 
vs. Connecticut 
Sunday, March 28 @ 2 pm 
page I 6 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, March 24, 1999 
-=---..::..._------------~----------------------------------------------­
¦ MEt\l'S COLLEGE BASl<E'TBALl 
UConn rides Calhoun's emotional -'coaster to Final Four 

PhotocourtesyofBigEastSportslnformation 
Leading Connecticut to its first-ever Final Four, Jim Calhoun has used a year of personal ups and downs to become the Husky's winningest coach. 
Associaced Press 

STOHHS. Conn. Jim Calhoun's passion for basketball is out there for everyone to sec. 
Away from the court. life bec<imes more complicated for C:onnectir.ut's winningest cour.h. 
Since the postseason began, Calhoun has experienced the joys of a first grand­child and the death of a friend. Both were much on his mind whPn the Huskit>s advanced to their first Final Four. 
It was morn than enough to make a 56­ye ar-old coach cry, and he didn't cam who saw. 
"I found myself more nostalgic." Calhoun said Tuesday. "I found that tears and outward emotions don't seem to Im the one thing that I have a problem hiding anymore or sec fit to hide over the past couple weeks. It gives me a different µer­sp,wtive on a couple different things, par­ticularly my own journey through this 
life.,. His trek through collflge basketball. as coach of Northeastern for 14 years and at Uconn since 1986, has been a stearly climb to the top. Ile has a career record of 552-257 and is tlw onlv coach in Division I history to have at !<'la.st 250 wins at two different schools. He remains the winningest coach at Northeast.--rn with a 2[)0-137 record. On Jan. 23, he earned his 287Lh win al UConn, making him the winningest coach in school history. Saturday's win over Gonzaga in the West Regional title game sends Calhoun to his first Final Four. 
"Over the past f'ew thrnr, or four ctays. I'm getting a much better fo(!lin~ l'or what that bright light of tlrn Final Four can do.·· h1~ said. "Pimple get a cha111·p to look dos­er at your program, ut your care1~r. at what our kids have achir,vPd." 
One of his "kids" was 2(i-year-old Jon McGinn. A popular t,iam rnanagr,r rrom ·1992-95, h1! had kidney discasP most of his life and died March 9 as the team wus preparing for its first-r<,und ganw in l)pnvcr. 
The bond between tlw two was likt• rather and son. When donors last. VPar decided legs should be amputa·t,•d, Calhoun brokt\ llrn news to him. 
"It was thn most nmotional thing I've evPr done," he said. "Much more emotion­al than a Final Four." 
Emily Calhoun, born to son Jim Jr. and wife Jennifer, arrived during the Big cast tournament and sweetened thr, postseason imrm~asurably for her grandfatlwr. 
Ile has carried her picture in his pock1!t throughout the NCAA tournament. It dor.sn't take much to gnt Calhoun talking about litlle Emily. 
"She's thn prettiest 3 l/2-w11nk-old child I',c ever seen." he said. "And that's said without one bit of' bias. ll puts your lifn into different perspective and has allowPd my wife and mysell' to do lhis. It's a won­derful feeling." 
/\II those feelings convorgod momonts after the Gonzaga game as Im struggled through tears. 
"It's been an amazing thing,'' he said. "I've lost a son and gained a granddaugh­ter. It's an emotional time." 
Rebels running from another NCAA investigation 
Associated Press tigative chief David Price to head coach Glenn Cyprien to dent for enforcement, also listf~d Vicllion and UNLV oflicials and 
UNLV president Carol Harter. make the payments. possible recruiting violations in to look at other allegations. 
LAS VEGAS Harter said the university, Viellion also claimed Cyprien his letter to Harter, and said Bayno said the formal letter 
The NCAA made it official which had a checkered relation­let center Kaspars Kambala use that other violations could be notifying UNLV of the prelimi­Tuesday, telling UNLV its bas­ship with the NCAA under for­Viellion 's car to run some uncovered as the investigation nary inquiry was expected, call­ketball program is once again m er coach Jerry Tarkanian, errands while Viellion was out continues. ing it just another step in the under investigation for possible would cooperate fully in the of town. Kambala wrecked and Bayno said he did not know process of resolving the allega­recruiting and other violations. probe. totaled the car, and Viellion what the possible recruiting vio­tions. 
A visit by investigators to the "We certainly treat this feels he was never compensated lations might be. The NCAA probe is the first at UNLV campus last week led to a inquiry as a serious matter and properly for it. Dirk Taitt, the NCAA director UNLV since Tarkanian left in letter from the NCAA notifying will review each issue as soon Both Bayno and Cyprien have of enforcement, and another 1992 after battling the organi­CNLV officials that it will launch as we are provided the appro­denied the charges. investigator were on thn UNLV zation for years over various a preliminary inquiry into sev­priate information," Harter Price, the NCAA's vice presi-campus last week to meet with aJlcgations. eral allegations surrounding said. coach Bill Bayno's program. Bayno, a fourth-year coach, 
Bayno said he was apprehen­also pledged his cooperation. sive about the probe, but "I feel good about our pro­believes his program has not gram," he said. ''I've never had 
Looking for a great job 
violated any NCAA regulations. a problem with the NCAA any­
''I've never knowingly, willing­place I've ever been." ly. violated any rules," Bayno The probe comes after a for­said. "I look forward to the mer student manager for the truth coming out." team claimed that cash pay­
for your senior year? .... 
The investigation will take up ments were made on behalf of to six months and could uncover former player Tyrone Nesby to violations other than the ones an auto leasing company. Mike that sparked the probe, accord­Viellion claimed that he was ing to a letter from NCAA inves-given money from associate 

•·t 
::.··:; 

The Alumni-Senior Club is now accepting Bartender and .D.J. applications. 
Apply today at the Student Activities Office 
_
.: . _·"':-·_'/'. ..-:_ . ::/' :'.'­
_'(3' 1s;i~1~forftiij~)... r:Ji )ortl:J')Jest}~b · 
:··::·;<: 

,, 'fl-~::.:; 
Presenters: 

Carn S,-J,;..,kcl (ND '83) -C"mmunity Organi7.ing 

Ct,,.;s Mumi (ND '&\) -f:ducatilm 
-


t: l Ill' l ! II r O • 
SOCIAL 
CONCERNS 

Wednesday, March 24, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 17 
¦ NIT BASKETBALL 
Cal, Clemson to square off in NIT finals after wins 
Associated Pres, 
NEW YOHK 

Michaul Gill broko open a closH game with 17 of his carnnr-high 22 points in the lirst nine minutes of the second half as California b11at Orngon X!i-(i9 in thri NIT semifinals T1msday nighL 
Thn (;olclnn Bnars {21-11) advanct)d to Thursday night's final al Madison Square Ganfon against thn winner of Tuesday's oLlwr sPmifinal bPLWt\()11 Xavkr and Clemson. 
In !waling tlrn Ducks {llJ-12) for t!w lirst tim1~ aller two lm,s­HS in Pac-10 play this iwason, California rocln C:ill's hot st.rrak and wnnt on a 17-!i run in Urn lirst (i:32 of' tlw scc-oncl half. The surgn nxtnncfod a 35-32 half'­tinw lnad Lo 52-37. 
But Gill. who was I0-of-14 from the field, wasn't linislwd. Tl11• (1-foot-6 snnior forward hit thrnn morn hasknts and tho l\l'ill'S Ind !iH-44 with 11 :02 Inn in flw gauw 
By tlwn. Lill' l)u('ks wnrr. fin­islwcl. Not HVt'll tlw thren-poiut shooting of Alex Scales could keep them in the game. Cal's biggest lead was 19 points ­79-60 with 1 :36 left -after two foul shots by Thomas Kilgore. 
Suan Lamphiy had 16 points, l 2 in the first half, and Frnncisc() Elson and Carl Boyd had 13 apiuce for California. Terik Brown lr.d Oregon with 16 points, A.O. Smith had 14 and S<:alcs 12, including two three­pointnrs in tho second half. 
Gill's prnvious career high was 18 points, most rncently in last Wl-lok's NIT quarterfinal win against Colorado State•. 
In its first three NIT games, California nevnr had tlm luxury of a comfortablo lead. Against Frnsno State, the Golden Bears rallied f'rom a 12-point second­half deficit to win in the first round; then thev came back from a 17-point deficit to beat Dr.Paul; and they trailed Colorado Statn by a point with lwo minutns lnft bc•l'oro winning, 
The I <J,500-soat Garden was thrnn-quarwrs empty for the ganrn. but thn Cal !'ans had plnnty to cheer about b1iginning late in the first half. 
Thanks to a late 8-0 run, Cal led hy three points at halftime. Elson's dunk with 57.3 seconds left capped the spurt and gave the Golden BP.ars a 33-30 lead. 
Each team held a five-point lead in the first 20 minutes. Lampley scored 10 straight for Cal to put the Bears ahead 19­14 with 11:27 left. 
But Oregon countered with its two 7-footers, 7-0 Mike Carson and 7-2 Chris Christofforsen, and came back lo take a 28-2:3 lead after a Christo!Tcrscn's dunk with 4:25 romaining. 
In the first two meetings between th1-1 teams, Oregon won at Oakland -where thf! Bears played their home games this season -7 l-69 in overtime, and then won 93-82 in the reg­ular-season finale. 
CLEMSON 79, XAVIEH 76 
Lenny Brown's three-point attempt at the Luzznr bounced off tlw rim and endPd XaviP-r's furious comeback attempt as Clemson held on for a 79-76 

THE PERFECT COUPLE. NOW JUST $1.99. 
Rightnuw,Amcnca':; fovuritc Bw-~r. the WHOPPER7andamccliumorderofthe KING OF FRIES'" are only $1.99, Hurry in, because although they're perfect together, this deal won't last a lifetime. 
The Heddie• LcFortune Student Center 
BURGER 

ICING It just tastes better:· 
FOR A LIMITED TIME ONLY.. PRICE AND PARTICIPATION MAY VARY. 
01999 BURGER KII\IG CORPORATION. THE eUAGEA KINO CORPOAATJON IS TH~ e>::CLIJ$1V£ LICENSEE OF THE KING OF FA!E:S ANO ~1r JUST TASTJ:5 BETTER~ TFl~OEMARKS AND THE AEOISTEflEO WHOPPER ANO BUN HALVl:S LOGO TAA.OEMAAKS 
www.tlurgerking.com 

victory over the Musketeers in the NIT semifinals on Tuesday night. 
Trailing by 24 points with just under 15 minutes to play, Xavier staged one of college basketball's more amazing ral­lies. The Muskeeters went from a 61-37 deficit to a 76-73 lnad, going ahead on Brown's three­pointer with 1:23 Jett. 
The Tigers (20-14) hit six free throws down the stretch -two apiece by Baroid Jamison, 
Tom Wideman and Andrius .Jurunas -and then held their breath as Brown's shot at the buzzer was just off line. 
Xavier (24-11) thought it should have gone to the NCAA tournament. but hoped winning the NIT would soothe the hurt. 
It wasn't to be, and now Clemson moves into Thursday night's championship game against California (21-1 l ). which beat Oregon 85-69 in the carlfor semilinal. 
The Tigers, under first-year coach Larry Shyatt, are looking for their first postscason title of any kind since winning the 
Southern Conl'crence 60 
years ago. They nearly lost the ehance. 
Led by the three-point shooting of James Posey, Lloyd Price and Gary Lumpkin, the Musketeers wcrnt on a 15-0 run to cut the 24­point deficit to 61-52 with 9:42 left. 
Arter Jamison. who finished with 16 points. dunked to make it 63-52, Im was callnd for a technical for handing tlrn ball to Xavier's Aaron Turner after the play. 
Posey, who scorod all of his 14 points in the second half, then hit tho tnchnicals, Price and Brown hit threB-pointers, and Posey hit two morn l're{i throws to closfl the gap to 73-(,9 with :J:24 left. 
Price hit two free throws and Lumpkin, foulnd on a thrnn­point attempt, hi!. ihrne f'ree throws to tio it n-all with 2:08 left. 
Brown, who finishnd with 14 points, hit another thret\•point­cr, and the Musknteors led 76­73 beforn the Tigers won it at tlrn line. 
Lumpkin led Xavic\r with 1(1 points, and Pricn addod l :J. Xavit~r was 14-of'-37 from thrn11­point range. 
Tcrn•II Mclntvre (I'd Clnmson with 20 poir1ts. and Tony Christie matclrnd .Jamison with Hi points. 
In the first half, tho Tigers shot 5(1 pccent from thn fiold in taking a 40-29 half'timn load. 
With Clnmson trailing 21-1 fi, McIntyre led an 18-1 run that put the Tigers ahnad :n-22 !Imel with 3:25 loll in thP half. During tho run. Mdntyro had 12 points, including two three pointPrs. 
THE CUSHWA CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF AMERICAN CATHOLICISM presents "Trials of Intimacy:Love and Loss in the Beecher-Tilton Scandal" Richard Fox Boston University Thursday, March 25, 1999 4: 15 p.m. 213 DeBartolo  


William Shakespeare's 

THECOMEDY OF ERRORS 
SUNDAY, MARCH 28, 1999 at 7:30 p.m. O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 

For ticket infonnation col\\a~I the Saint Mary"sBox Oftke 
(219) 284-4626 

page 18 The Observer• SPORTS Wednesday, March 24, 1999 
¦ WOMHlS LACROSSE 
Irish lose first of season to No. 19 Orangewomen, 18-11 
By GENE BRTALIK 
Spom Wrirer 
In a game where the Notre Dame wom<'n's lanosse team needed to keep dose fur a win, the game was decided bv halltime. 
·The 19th-ranker! Syracuso Orangewonwn (2-3) defeated the Irish ( 3-1 J v1\sterdav bv the score of 18-11 to ha1;d lhP tt>am .their first loss of tho vnar. . ThP f'irst half looked like it would be a r('pPat of last year as Syracuse raced out to an early lead. After taking a 4-1 lead, Syracuse went on a 7-2 run to close out the half with a 10-3 lead. 
In the second half, the Irish looked as if they corrected their earlier mis­takes and scored two quick goals to make the scol'e 10-5, but Syracuse answered with three of their own. 
From there on both teams traded goals. Leading all scor1Hs was Syracuse's Jenna Szyluk with 6 goals, while Katrina Habel was held in check with only one goal. 
Leading the Irish in scoring was 
sophomore Lael O'Shaughnessy, who tallied five goals for her fourth­straight game and is now only seven behind her total of last year. 
Also chipping in with goals were senior Kerry Callahan (three). sopho­more Courtney Calabrese (two) and sophomore Kathryn Perrella (one). 
Although the score was lopsided the other stats were relatively close. 
Notre Dame had six free position shots to Syracuse's five, picked up two fewer groundballs than the Orangewomen, won 14 of the 31 
draws and had 15 turnovnrs to Syracuse's 18. 
This is the second rankr.d opponent the Irish have played in its history, losing last year to No. 5 Duke 19-5. 
The team may not be pleased about the scorn but they can look at tho closeness of the statistics and tlw way they were able to match Syracuse goal for goal in the second half. Both ol' tlwsc qualities will be needed as the Irish head into a two game home stand this weekend against Ohio State and Connecticut. 
Majerus 
continued from page l4 
firmed that Notre Dame did ask permission to s1wa k with Carmody and set up an inter­view. Camody replaced long time Princeton head coach Pete Carril and has compiled a 7]-14 recnrd in four years. 
Many b,'1irwe that Camrndy is happy at Princclon and would not leave for anv other position. The lrish co.aching 
position, however, holds spe­cial meaning for Carmody. 
'Td have to think about !the position]. I'm Irish, I'm Catholic and it is Notre Dame," Carmodv told the Trenton Tribune. • 
The other possible candi­date for the vacant position is Skip Prosser or Xaviel'. Prosser led the Musketeers to the s11mifinals of the National Invitational Tournament before falling to Clemson lasl night 79-76. 
Xavier athletic director 
Mike Bobski has confirmed that Notre Dame asked per­mission to interview Prosser. 
"I don't know when, where or how, but they said they were in the process of meet­ing some people and Skip was on their list and that it was somewhal in the preliminary stages of their process," he said. 
The Irish will most likelv not interview Prosser unti'l after Xavier's season is com­p I e te, ThP. NIT concludes Thursday night with Xavier facing Oregon in the consola­tion round. 
Other candidates rumored to have been interviewed by the Irish include Tommy Amaker whose Seton Ilall Pirates eliminated the Irish in this year's Big East tourna­ment and Mike Brny of' Delaware, a former Duke assistant who has lf1d the Fighting Blue lions to two straight NCAA appParancos. 
Sienna's Paul Hewitt is the most recent candidate inter­viewed by Notre Dame. 
Former University of Massachusetts and Nnw Jersey Nets head coach .John Calipari has nxpressod inter­est in coaching at Notr<' Dame. llis history of NCJ\J\ violations at UMass will most likely prohibit him from snri­
o us consideration by the Irish. 
Wadsworth has con tin u<id to stress that tho Irish will have a coach choson bnl'or<' April 7, the lrnginning of thn spring signing p<>riod f'nr recruits. 

Ali calls Lewis-Holyfield fight biggest fix in history 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Calling the recent title fight between Evander I lolvfield and Lennox Lewis "the biggest fix in fight history," Muhammad A.Ii on Tuesday said he was humiliated that the sport "had sunk to its lowest levels." 
In a letter to Senate Commerce Committee chairman John :vtcCain, R-Ariz., Ali said "it was clear to all who watched that the deciding victor of the match was England's Lennox Lewis." 
Tho heavyweight unification title light between Ilolyfield and LP-wis on March 13 in New York ended in a draw. sparking inves­tigations by a New York City grand jury, a New York state Senate committee, the New York State Athletic Commission and the Nevada Gaming Control Board. 
McCain, a boxing fan, intro­duced a bill earlier this year which would restrict coercive option contracts by which pro­moters control a boxers' career, such as contracts forcing a boxer into a long-term deal in exchange for a shot at a world title. McCain named the bill for Ali. 
"As the former three-time heavyweight boxing champion of the world, I believe I have the credibility to say Lennox Lewis won this bout without question and should have been named the clear and decided victor," Ali wrote. "What occurred once the 12-round event concluded will surely go down in the boxing annals as the biggest !ix in fight history." 
In the letter, Ali added his support to McCain's bill, which is aimed at protecting boxers from exploitation and requiring more openness from promoters about their financial dealings. boxing commissions of charges, House did not take up the mea­
It would require promoters costs and fees they take out of a sure before the session ended. and organizers of major boxing boxer's purse. Identical legisla­The legislation has takfln on events to disclose more financial tion passed the Senate last added importance, Ali said. in information and to inform state October by voice vote, but the light of'the disputed draw. 
ATTENTION ALL STUDENTS 
interested in the Rhodes and Marshall Scholarships 
Professor Donald Sniegowski will discuss the scholarships and inform you of deadline dates and the Fall application process on 
Wednesday, March 24, 1999 
6:00 p.m. 138 DeBartolo 

If you are unable to attend this meeting, a sheet of in[,:,;-a;:,~ion may be obtained in 102-B O'Shaughnessy Hall after the meeting date. 


----~----------~---. 
Wednesday, March 24, 1999 
~ .... -­

' (p/J 
~ti..~
arit 
~\'v 
' " 
~ 
page 19

The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

The Notre Dame Law School Natural Law Institute presents 
The Olin 
Distinguished Lecture Series 
Disa,.gteement in 'olitics 
Professor of the Philosophy of Law at Oxford University 
Wednesday, March 24, 1999 

--4 p.m.
John Keown >> 
• 4 
April 1.3 -->Ii(•'"'
0~: 
-.,..,:,,-.,1.., 

~~.:· 
~-----------------­
------~­

page 20 The Observer• SPORTS Wednesday, March 24, 1999 
formance. "llis emergence as a late-inning pitcher has
Baseball 
allowed us to put him in rota­continued from page 24 tion for closers." The Irish had a true team "Corbin's come through for effort on the mound. with no us all year." MainiAri less that seven pitchers throw­remarked on the Junior's per-ing on the day. In the end, 

though, it was s1rn ior left­hander Chris McKeown who earned the victory. improving to 2-1 on the season. In two innings of' work, he struck out four while allowing two hits. Combined. the Irish pitching staff had 1 O strikeouts out of 
44 battPrs faced. 
rrom the other dugout, the Broncos· Angelo Palazeti earned the loss. giving up eight earned runs over three innings. Before yesterday's game, Palazeti was 3-0 on the season with a 1.23 ERA. 
With the win. the Irish improve to 12-6 on the sea­son and extend their winning streak to eight games, while the Broncos fall to 4­
8. Notre Dame now will attempt to take their good fortune on the road. taking on 

Big  East  rivals  
Villanova  and  
Rutgers.  

"Big East pitch­ing is kind of clif­l"e rent," Cst said about the upcom­ing conference battles. "They throw the break­ing ball a lot, but I'm used to hilting it. We've just got to play off the ball, and cut down on the strikeouts." 
The clash between the Irish and the Wildcats is set for this Saturday at 12 p.m. 

Tennis 
continued from page 24 
had to fight to get this win, despite what the scorn might have looked like." 
One important factor that helped the llawkeyes was the addition of a foreign player. 97th-ranked Toni Neykova. 
Notre Dame's Michelle Dasso. ranked No. 11 nationally. faced off against her at No. 1 singles. and pulled out a close wir, 7-6, (9-7), 6-4. Dasso held off two set points at 4-6 in the lirst set tiebreak, and broke Nevkova's serve at four games apiece in the second set. It was the 60th singles win of her short two­year career. 
After Lindsey Green beat Erin Wolverton 6-1. 6-1 at No. 6 sin­gles and Irish senior All­American Jennifer llall rallied for a 3-6. 6-1, 6-2 three set win over Natalya Dawaf at No. 2 singles, the Irish had a some­what comfortable 3-0 lead. 
Leading 3-0. Notre Dame put away Iowa by winning two of three dose three-set matches. The Hawkeyes won in three sets at No. 3 singles when Shera Wiegler won the final three games of the match to beat Marisa Velasco 6-3. 2-6, 6-4. Irish junior Kelly Zalinski put Notre Dame ahead 4-1 by beating Erica Johnson 6-3. 5-7. 7-5 at No. 5 singles. 
Varnum then clinched the win in a back and forth match at No. 4 singles. She load 6-2, 5-3 and served for the match but wasted three match points as Bampton won the second set 7-5. Hampton then served for the match at 5-4 in the third set but Varnum rallied for a 7-5 win in the decisive set. 
"We were really fired up after Hecky won to clinch the match. 
We were able to just coast into the doubles, without the pres­sure that is normally there," said Zalinski. 
Without that pressure. Notre Damn did just that: they roast­ed through the doubles, sweep­ing Iowa to complete the 8-1 win. Sixth-ranked Dasso and llall beat Neykova and Wingler 8-2 at No. 1 doubles. and Green and Zalinski won 8-4 over Johnson and Wolv11rton at No. 3 doubles. Varnum and Nina Vaughan linishod the win with an 8-:~ win over Dawaf and Megan Kearney at No. 2 dou­bles. 
"This was a gn~at team effort today. All of tlw girls did what they need11d to do," said Louderback. "Kelly has strug­gled in her last two matches. but she has pullnd out the wins. and that really is big l'or both her and the team." 
"I was!l 't µleased with how I played. but I was happy that I got tlw win," said Zalinski. 
The win marks Notre Dame's 14th straight over Midwest regional opponents, a strnak that dates back to the 1997 season. 
The Irish look to extend the streak to 15 matches when thev takn on 58th-ranked Michigan today at home. 
"Michigan is a tnam that has struggled this year. Tlrny have had numerous injuries th at have really set Lim tuam back," said Louderback. "Bight now they have all of thnir players back except for onn, so they're dangerous. We know what they have. so I'm sum the girls won't overlook them." 
"They always come out play­ing well. They know about tlrn big rivalry. In the past it's always been close, so this year we're excited to play against them tomorrow and hopefully get the win," said Zalinski. 

-...---------------------------­
Wednesday, March 24, 1999 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
¦ SOFTBALL 
Belles look to improve teamwork, start winning 
Ry DANA KIDNEY 
Sport, Wrire, 
Saint Mary's softball team has gottnn off Lo a rough start on the season. but tomorrow's gamo against Concordia llniw~rsity offors a chancn to smooth things out. 
Tlw B1illm; opened lh1\ snason with a honw game against Bnthol Collogc, which has always LHWll u tough 1:ompnlitor for Saint Mary's. Even ,vith a rww coach and llw unfamiliar cold wcal11er, the Bcllos play(•cl Willi as a Lnam. But Bettrnl's hitting prowd to lw Loo much, and Saint Mary's lost b1,th gamns last Friday. 12-2 and 8-4. 
"W1• playPrl wPII. hut Bethnl was hiHing all our holes," junior ,Johna Indriolo said. 
The Belles have had little opportunity to practice outside during the pre-season and are looking to get into the swing of things. 
"l~or the first game after our break in Florida, we played hard," said sophomore Anne Senger. "llut we haven't been able to keep it up throughout an entire game." 
Last Saturday, the Belles facod Franklin College for a doubleheader and won the first game in five innings. 16-0. llowever, thny worn not abln lo hold on, losing the socond game, 10-4. 
"We lost our enthusiasm," said fresh­man Rachel Deer. "Whnn that happens. wn stop hustling. and we r.ouldn'l pull together." 
Saint Mary's showed great defense and hitting in the first game but fell short in the second. 
"It was very frust.rating," Indriolo said. "The whole team wasn't on, and we didn't play like we could." 
Saint Mary's played at Manchester College on Monday, but only came up with another disappointing loss, 9-2 and 7 -4 in a doubleheader. 
"The first game. we were totally llat and didn't hiL well al all." said junior Trish Klockner. "The second game, we played well until the last inning, and that's when Lhey made all their hits." 
Coping with injury the Belles adjusted at a few positions. making room for some unnecessary errors for the Belles. 
"We just couldn't get our bats working really," said Deer. "We had lots of' errors and didn't hit lo our potential." 
Today the Belles will travel to Concordia University, hoping to pick up a win. 
"We need to step up on defens11 and pull together," said Klockner. 
With new freshman talent on tho team, as well as a new coach, the Belles faco a challenge alrnad. 
"We nncd lo get our chemistry up," said lndriolo. ''Whm1 wn pull together, get on track. and stop struggling for leadership, we can start winning." 

Irish split steam with Boilers 
By MATT OLIVA 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's 
softball team split its two 
gamo series with tho 
Boilnrmaknrs Tuesday after­
noon. moving its record to 13­
11 on Lim season. 
After dropping the first 
game 6-3, the Irish rebound­
ed with 13 hils and 10 runs 
for a 10-2 victory in the sec­
ond game. 
Tho doubleheader was the home opener for Purdue and Boilermaker freshman Chrissy Davie got the game winning hit with a two-run triple. The · hit broke the 3-3 tie in the bottom of the sixth, and Davie was th<rn singled in to give 
Purdue a three-run lead. 
The Irish were shutout in 
the top of the seventh to 
secure Purdue's win. Meghan 
Dooley picked up the win for 
Purdue while Angela Bessolo 
(5-4) was credited with the 
loss for the Irish. 
The Irish opened up the 
scoring in the first with two 
runs off o!' a Melanie Alkire 
home run. 
After surrendering three 
r11ns in tlrn hnltom of' the 
CLASS OF 2000 * DINNER * 
to celebrate NCAA National Championship Final 
at 

**·*-****DAMON'S******* 
Monday, March 29th 
7:30 PM $5.00 per person 
+++++ Includes choice of... +++++ 
0 CHARGRILLED CHICKEN 
0 PRIME RIB *All come with baked potato, salad, and drink 
0 RIBS *Price includes tip and tax 
Tickets for dinner available at LaFortune beginning Thursday, March 18th 
(LIMITED TICKETS AVAILABLE) 
inning, the Irish managed lo tie things up in the third on an unearned run. The team had only three more hits for Lhe rnst of the game as Purdue held them scorelnss. 
"I thought that we camn uul very well in the first game," saicl sophomore Jennifer Sharron, who started lhc game on the mound f'or lhn Irish. but pitched only one inning after injuring her ankle rounding second base in the second inning. "We hit really well and had great enthusiasm. Angela did a great job for us today, unfor­tunately we were a bit unlucky." · 
In the second game, Alkire (2-1) picked up the victory for tho Irish as they scored four runs in the third inning and six runs in the sixth for the easy win. Sophomore Danielle Klayman lead the Irish with four hits while freshmen .Jarrah Myers and .Jennifer Kriech oach had three HBls. 
"We came out and played with a lot of heart in the sec­ond game," stated Sharron. "We dominated from the start and everyone stepped up today with starting catcher Kris McCleary being out." 
Myers opened the scoring for the Irish with a two-out, two-run single in the top of 
tht) third inning. Tim next batter. Kriech, followed with a double, scoring two morn runs for the Irish. 
In the sixth inning, 1':layman startPd things off with an HBI single driving in l'rnshnrnn Ka1hlncn lloag, who rnached on a single and advanced on a sacrifice bunt. Hcbncca Eirnen. who reached basn ear­lier in the inning al'tcr getting hit by tlrn pitch, scored on a wild pitch by Purdun pitcher Crouse. 
Senior captain Amy Laboe drove in Klayman, and affor a basn hit by Alkire, sophomorn Lizzy Lemire hit an HBI dou­ble to left center. My(irs then singled to score Lemire, and advanced to second on an error. Ki·ier.h followed with a single, driving in Myors. Crouse then got lloag to ground out to encl tlrn inning for the Irish. 
Alkirn went the distance f'or tlrn Irish, yielding two runs on six hits with one striknout and no walks. 
Both runs came af'tnr thP gamn was all but ovt>r as Purdue scored twice in thP bottom or the sixth to brt>ak up tlrn shutout f'or Alkire and the Irish. 
Next up for the Irish is tlw home opener on Saturday against Toledo. 

--:"!.: 
-

page 22 The Observer• SPORTS Wednesday, March 24, 1999 
¦ WtW OUT IN LEH F!tU) 
¦ •SPORTS BREIFS

Confessions of a 'roto' lunatic 
Weekend Hacquetball Tournament -Sign up now at RecSports for the weekend racquetball tournament to be earning $400 from the league depressed, 1am getting drilled 
ht,ld .on Friday and Saturday, April 9 and 10. Bring ycur By JOHN COPPOLELLA in which I placed first. on my league's message board. 
own racquet and your best game to the Joyce Center Sports Columnist t\s this year rolled around. I Perhaps the most entertaining 
Courts. Men's and women's divisions. Cost is $8.00. became involvPd in the saml' part of roto is the trash talking 
Deadline is Wednesday, April 7. Balls will be provided and The baseball season. which two leagues again. The league -or one team telling the other 
TWshirts ·will be given to all participants. Refreshments will has Yl!t to get underway, got a with the organization I how idiotic he is for doing 
!Ji served. For more information. contact the RecSports 
1 
offiee at 1-6100. Kt>rry Wood. the Chicago league. The league which car­Wood and Sheft1eld. Cubs' lirehall-pitching pbe-ried the most weight was the These put-downs arc spoken 
little \pss !'xciting last week. interned for was the "mo1wy" something like trading for 
Ca.sting and Angling -Clinic will be offered on April 6, 1rnm. was pronounced out for "pride" league over tlw within llrn dorms and when 
I 
)~. 20(Tugsdays) frorn 6-7:15 p.m. in ttlfl Joyce Center and Llw whole season. Tho news Internet with friends from high high school friends meet at 
campus lakes. $8.00 class fee. Register in advance at hurt Cubs fans. bast>ball fans, school and here on campus. home to hang out together, 
HecSports. Join Dan Bucha. Certified American Casting and teenage girls all through­ll is in this league that I am and in my league, it has taken 
A~spclatio~l Instructor, for three e-venings of' bait casting, out the Midwest. Most of all having the most problems. I a lire or its own. One "friend" , J1y-.casthig,.spinning and fishing. Equipmnnt will be provid­though, it hurt me. traded for Wood a few days {and I use that term loosely) 1• ~d but·pring your own if possible. Contact HecSports at 1­
Why did it hurt me? One before he was pronounced went so l'ar as to place an 1, ;1>lQl)for more information. word: roto. You see, I am one dead for the season. The deal embargo on trading with my I• of' those •·geeks" who pnrtk­involved trading Brad Radke (a tnam in order to enjoy the 
Christmas in April Benefit Run wHI he held on Saturday. ipates in "roto," or rotisserie solid pitchfll' for the Minnesota pleasure of watching me suf­
: IA:prll. Hf a,t 11 a.m. Join us in Stepan Center for a 5K or baseball. Twins) and Larrv Walker (the fer. , TOK run or 2 mile walk. T-shirts to all finishers! Cost is For the uninitiated, conven­reigning National League bat­Rota is more than that, 
$6.00 in advance or $7.00 the day of the race. Hegister at tional rotisserie baseball ting champion and the 1997 though, for baseball fans. It is 
RecSports. All proceeds to benefit Christmas in April. involves choosing a team of National LPague MVP) in a chance to regress lo trading players (either through a exchange for Wood and Gary baseball cards. to play Geueral 1 Th<, Notre Dame football team is looking for punters and straight draft or an auction Sheffield. Manager for a short period of 
placekickers who are interested in kicking for the Irish formal) which rompetes I needed the pitching and fig­timi.1, to root for players on 
during spring practice, which gets underway this Saturday. against othe\r teams in a ured that Sheffield would not teams you despise, to read box 1, r,,t:ar: 27, If interested in trying out, please contact Bob league that can be as small as be too much of a downgradt> scores as intensely as a 1. Chmiel, Coordinator of Football Operations, at 631-5858. 
"""JQ' •

five people or as large as 20. from Walker. A few days after Spencer Stefka column. 
Once a player is selected, no learning of Wood's diagnosis, I More than that, it offers other team can choose that learned that Sheffield was something that baseball is player. You build your team by "depressed." Apparently, being offering less and less of today 
You lika da sports? filling up players at the various the most overpaid player in as words like small-market baseball positions. baseball this side of Bernie and big-market replace words 
Call 1-4543 and get paid for it. 
Teams are evaluated on a Williams and playing for a con­like chance and hope -an number of categories based on tending team in a beautiful equal opportunity to beat any­
the players' designations as stadium and area was not one or lose to anyone in your either pitchers or hitters. enough for Sheffield. league. Pitchers are evaluated in terms He was depressed and took Yes, roto is not exactly the of wins. earned run average an "indefinite" leave of most exciting thing to do with (ERA). strikeouts, walks and absence. At the time this arti­one's spare time. However, it hits per innings pitched (WHIP) cle was written, Sheffield was has its merits, among them the and saves; hitters are evaluat­still on that leave and no word opportunity to match wits with ed in terms of average, stolen of his whereabouts or return friends who claim they know bases, home runs. runs scored had been received. more baseball than you. This and runs batted in (RBI). As bad as losing those two opportunity can grow into 
In a league of 10 people, the players is. things got worse. opportunities to bash these TO TME CUTEST individual with the highest My first pick in the straight people on message boards, cumulative score in a given draft, Nomar Garciaparra, repeated cat calls over a given l<ER-IJElR category woulti get 10, the sec~ injured himself during a game trade and a generous section and-highest would get nine, two days ago. His status, simi­within the classifieds. 
lROUNPl,

and so on. All the points are lar to Sheffield's, is indefinite. l feel like Gary Sheffield. tallied and standings are then It shouldn't be too tough to created. replace Garciaparra -there The views expressed in this 
Even though I am a master are plenty of middle infielders column are those ofthe author l.OVE, at making sports predictions that went undrafted who hit and not necessarily those of 
THE f~t.\

(Chiefs in the Super Bowl, .320 with 35 home runs and The Observer. 



Stanford as NCM champions). 120 RBIs. I was not good at roto when I Joining the three previously first began playing with friends mentioned players on the in eighth grade. I improved injured list two days ago was steadily throughout high John Wetteland, the star school. but had a break-. reliever for the Texas Rangers. through year last year. I was The first pitcher I took in the involved in two leagues -one draft, the loss of Wetteland is with the organization I was perhaps the most devastating. interning with and the other as relievers are at a premium with friends from high school in any league. and Notre Dame over the As I wait to see which of my Internet -and placed first players will be the next to and second in those leagues, become injmed and/or 
MASTER 
YOUR CAREER 
DESTINY! 

~-COME TO THE SELF-ASSESSMENT WORKSHOP! 
Eilllr_parf.jyor_ksh.o.p~erula.oce to an is strongly encourag~ 
Limited space -Sign up in advance at Career and Placement Services (l-5200) 
When: Thursday, March 18, 4:00 -5:15 p.m. Where: DeBartolo Hall -Room 213 
When: Thursday, March 25, 4:00 -5:15 p.rn. Wednesday, March 31, 4:00-5:15 p.m. Thursday, April 8, 4:00 -5:15 p.m. 
-
Where: DeBartolo Hall -Room 116 
Presented by Olivia Williams, Assistant Director 
Career and Placement Services 

r 
l 

Room 023 LaFortune Student Center 
Your new place to ship all your packages, conveniently located in the center ofcampus. 
NEW HOURS!!!!!!!!! 

Hours: M&W Noon-2pm; 
3pm-6pm T, Th llam-6pm Fri Noon-6pm Sat Noon-3pm 

Come visit us and let us tt1ke 
4,,.,1y care<~{all your shipping! 
Wednesday, March 24, 1999 The Observer• TODAY page 23 
SLURRED SPEECH 
fOXTROT 
EL\/15 HAS CoME, J'oHN Sool< -WE'RE LEFT TliE SHoWER. 8VtL01NG A BARN ToOAY. 
I 

,., 
DILBERT 
DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't be afraid to voice your opinion. Your
r:==============:::--7er===============::-,gr-~====~=~=======~--­
intuitive words will instill confidence 
'YOU MU5T U5E. THE 8 tF 'YOU eiE.L'LEVE. 1T 
in others. Teaching may be the direc­tion you should be looking into. You 
SO RANDOMNES5 
$'TA.RS A.$ 'YOUR j WORKS I THEN '<OU'RE. I5 PR.O\Jl\~L'< AN 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Rhea Perlman, Christopher Walken, Shirley Jones, Richard Cham­berlain, John Fowles, Cesar Chavez, John D. Loudermilk, Al Gore 
Happy Birthday: You may want to do it all, but focus will be necessary this year ii you want to be successful. Although you can ask for help, you will still want to do everything your­self. You must follow your own dreams and stop being so willing to help those around you do their own thing. This is a year to work toward your own goals. Your numbers: 3, 17, 20, 31, 37, 46 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You'll be receptive to new ideas. Friendships will develop into serious partner· 
ships. You need to act quickly if 1•ou want to take advantage of the oppor• tunities aroW1d you. 00Q 
BILL AMEND 
TAURUS !April 20-May 20): Get
11 SANE CALL ME 

those deals in writing. You'll haw no
HUS8AtiD. NANOOI<, 

problem with financial contracts, but
:JuST SHAVE. 

finalize them as quickly as possible. You must concentrate on putting yourself in a key position. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Keep your thoughts to yourself. Your emo­tional instability will cause you to say things that you'U regret later. Passion, not arguments, should be your focus. Don't neglect the ones you love. 
00000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Some­one i~ likely to misinterpret you if ,·ou aren't perfectly dear about your intentions. Keep your mind on what you are doing if you don't want to make mistakes or experience mishaps. 
00
SCOTT ADAMS 

ANO WHA1 WoUU) Yoo Lll<E foR CHR1STM~S, LITTLE GIRL?
c-=-} 

need to be in a position of power. 
0000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't limit yourselt by bending to demands being put on you by family members. Take care of your own needs first. H you're not happy, you can't make oth­ers happy. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You need a change of scenery. Travel for business or pleasure and break up the monotony. Take some time for your­self. Knowledge received will be satis­fying and give you some incentive. 
000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Someone you work with may be jeal­ous of you. Keep your thoughts and intentions to yourself. You'll advance if you stick to your work and do a goodjobOOO 
SAGITrARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your emotional well-being may be in jeopardy if you have avoided con­frontations vital to your mate's needs. Get mellow and prepare to listen to the complaints presented. 0000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Stay put and work on pro1·ects that don't require a lot of trave or com­munication. Expect delays or prob­lems with shipments, mail or equip­ment. Be prepared to make alternate choices. 00 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Get into self-awareness programs that offer motivation. You need a little push in order to get yourself back on track. If you look good, you'll be much happier with yourself. 00000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will have problems with someone you live with. Try lo be patient, but don't let him or her take advantage of your good nature. You have to draw the line somewhere. 000 
Ei ~  NOT BRIGHT ENOUC,\--1 TO MA.Kt. 't'OUR OWN DECISIONS I\NYW~Y.  IMP!'.\OVEMENT.  Birthday Baby: Yo\J will know what path you want to follow at a young age. You are a humanitarian with great vision, and you will fight for those who can't fight for them.selves. You ha,·e high standards and a good eye for what will and what won't work.  
¦ OF INTEREST  
"Democracy and Dichotomies: A Pragmatic Approach to Choices about Concepts" will be the topic of a lecture presented by David Collier, a Professor of Political Science at tho University of'  

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 35 Of the ear 57 Okey-dokes 36 Divinity sch. 58 Where to place
1 Fast runners subj. DRAMATl­6 "ThereI" 37 Theme of this (1914) 
10 Cut of marble 
puzzle 62 Domain 14 Rep 
41 "I~-Camera" 63 Civic group15 Paradise (1955 film) 64 Frenzy16 Paradise's 

42 Bluecoats. with opposite "the" 
65 Takes home, in away17 "I can't use my 
43 This, to Tomas 0 .. "(1959) 66 Cut the fat 
44 Ingredients in 20 king 67Walk in
some pancakes 21 Puts two and 
46 "Bards of two together 
Passion and of 

DOWN
22 Chilled Mirth," e.g. 23 Plea of a player 48 Laura's daytime 1 Sets upon drawing KILLJ0-lover 
2 Not hidebound 
(1952, 1964 and 49 "Double letter 3 Kidney-related1990) 
score" refrain 4 Letter 

25 "There!" (1925) 
accompanier: 27 Jerk 53 B19 nama in Abbr. 28 Kills. slangily computer 5 Does a slow 
printers

32 Money guru burn · Greenspan 56 Londoner 
6 Bear that kids bear 7 Hornets' nests ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE a Site of iniquity 9 Picnic crasher 


BEGS 32 P.D.O. 49 Something to 54 Combustible
--+--+-+-+---1 10 Flubs a golf shot 
E T R E leave money 1n? heap
33 Car with a bar 50 Razz 55 Leave be
--+--+-+-+---1 11 Dolly --of 
"Hello, Dolly!" 
34 Gray's subJ. 

51 "Generation of 56 Lie on the beach 
1-::11-:-:11-::-1r::-1-=-1_._._ ..::+-+c'11111iri-=-.,.."""' 12 Actor Guinness 
35 Match 

Vipers" author 59 Foundation 38 Without a sour Philip 
60 Pnestof note 
52 Star's statuette I Samuel 39 Hide-and-seek 53 Israel's Abba 61 Idol worshiper 24 Singer k.d. 
hideout 

25 Pitch suddenly 40 Miller, for one26 Gen. Bradley 45 Ho's his Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 28 Gang woes 
are available by touch-tone phone: 29 Basketballs, but 46 Just for the thrill 1-900-420-5656 (95e per minute). not footballs 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 30 Had a sensation 47 Stay in the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 31 Dog botherer cooler 50years: 1-888-7-AGROSS. 

California at Berkeley today at 4:15 p.m. in room C­l 03 of the Hesburgh Center. 
"Disagreement in Politics" will b1-i the lecturn Joseph Raz, Professor of the Philosophy of Law, prr.• sents at 4 p.m. today in the Law School Courtroom. Thls is the second lecture in The Natural Law Institute's Olin Distinguished Lecturt> Series. 
The Medieval Studies Department will host an ArL'i & Letters Major Fair followup meeting today from 4 to 5 p.m. in tho Allegro Cafe in LaFortune. Advisors will ho available. 
The Nanovic Institute for European Studies pre­sents Winfried Becker of tlrn University or Passau, Germany, who will lecture on "Christian Democracy Heconsidered: Some Historical & Theoretical Aspects of a Neglected Movement." today at 4::-m p.m. in 118 D('Rartolo. 
Vehicle Driver Training Session will be held at the Center for Social Concerns at 5:30 p.m. today. PleasP bring your driv1w's lieonse. Only p,wsons who havn completed this course will bC' oligiblo to drive CSC vehicles. 
Forum: Reinventing lJndergraduate Education -A Blueprint for America's Resnarr.h Universities. Tho Boyer Commission on Educating Undergraduates in the Research University will be the lopic today in tlrn main auditorium of Mc.Kenna Hall from 3 to 5 p.m. today. 
.. 

Fill this space. Work for The Observer. 
The Observer 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an inclispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to:  The Observer P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN  46556  
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year  
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester  

Name ________________________ Address ____________________ City _______State ____ Zip______ 
.... 


AROUMDTHIHORM 
¦ Irish split a doubleheader against Purdue to up their season record to
PORTS 
13-11. 
THE 

page 24 -------------------------------------------~ Wednesday, March 24, 1999
OBSERVER 

By BILL HART 
Associ.ne Sporn Ediror 
It's a rarit\ for South Bond in March lo ltaVP thP ·wtHttlrnr rlear up enough for a basdrnll ganrn. 
YPl that was cxadly what happ1•11ed Tuesday af'trrnoon. wlH'n the NotrP Dame l;asPball team op,rned up its home scliNlulc with a game against Wf~StPrn Miehigan. Going into thr game, the Irish had won thrir past three homo openers. This year proved to be no dif­fo rn nt • a s t lw I r is h dom in at f1 d th r Broncos 12-8. 
'·Everyone's a little nervous," head rnarh J1•ff Mainieri said. "brcause it's the first home ganrn. But Urn two v11 ter­ans step1wd up. and they provided som,; leac!Prship for us. Tlrny calmnd our nerves. 
AftAr a srnr<'less first inning, tlw Irish clr!'W first blood with a two-run spurt in thP bottom or thn second. With the 
bas('s loadnd and two nuts, freshman 
cP11tPrfieldPr StevP Stanllly hit a two­run single to the IPft side, scoring left­f'ie lder Matt Strickroth and rirst base­man Jeff F1'1kPr. 
Afti->r tlw Broncos tied the game up off a two-run homer in the top or the third, the Irish again took the lead. The bot­tom of the inning started with a leadoff base hit by l'orzel right down the mid­dle. Two pitches later. junior shortstop Brant Ust hit a two-run homer to give the home team the lead again. Later in the inning, a single by A1ec Porzel would bring Strickroth home a second time. 
The Bronros closed within reach of the lead again with two more runs in th!! top of thn fourth, but the Irish extendfid thPir advantage again in the inning's bottom half. With a three-run surge in th,i bottom of the fourth. the Irish kept th11 Broncos tamed. Paul ()'Toole reachlid first after being hit by 

¦ 8ASEBAU. 
Ust leads punch as Irish win fourth-straight home opener 

a pitch to start the inning off. advanr·ed to second on a hit bv Porzel and scored off a hit by Cst thaL managed to reach the left firld wall. Porzel scored off a base hit to left l'ield by Nussbaum. while Ust scored on a hiL by Felker to the same rngion. 
But the ofl'Pnsive onslaught rnacl11\d its climax in Lim lifth. a four-run irming that all but put the game out of reach. Stanlev reached f'irst base on a fieldN's choice·, then followed it up by stealing second -his eighth stolen base of the season. ()'Toole hit a double to score Stanley, th()n advanced to third on a stolen base of his own. l'orzcl got on base aftC'r being hit by l\ pitch, and later advanced to third on a wild pitch that brought O'Toole home. To top it off, Ust cl0.arNI the bases with his sec­ond home run or the game, a shot deep into left center field. 
The homer was Ust's 10th or the ynar and 39th of his earner, moving him into sole possession of second place on the team's all-time home run leaderhoard. With the game. he is now just four shy of the all-time leader, current senior captain Jeff Wagner. 
"He's rooting for me," Ust said about Wagner. "And that's cool. I know right now he's itching to get back on the action. though." For the day, Ust was 3-for-5 .vith five 1rn1s, fattening his average to .393. 
While the Irish had a seven-run lead going into the eighth inning, the Broncos attempted to rally back into striking distance. WMU pinch hitter .Joe Langschwagm· hit a solo homer-earlier in the eighth, whilr Lindsay hit a dou­ble to bring two more runs home with two outs in the ninth. But the blcrding stopped when right-hander John Corbin was put in the game, throwing two pitches to get a groundnut to first base and earn the save. 
see BASEBALL I page 20 
The Obseiver/Jefl Hsu 

Brant Ust hit his 1 oth home run of the season and 39th of his. career, taking second place on the all-time Irish hmoe run leaderboard in Tuesday's 12-8 win. 
Notre Dame hawks Iowa, 8-1 
-
SPORTS 
ATA

. ... 
GLANCE 


By WES JACOBS Sports Writer 

With the score to this dual meet 8-1, this contest spelled out a blowout for the Irish. 
As women's tennis coach Jay Louderback said, however, this was by no means an 8-1 match. 
"lowa gave us a very good match, they really came out fired up," he said 
The No. 53 Iowa Hawkeyes came to Notre Dame ready to play and nearly pulled off an upset over the Irish, ranked No. 14 in the nation. 
Four singles matches went to three sets, \Vith the Irish taking three of four. Notre Dame clinched tho win when Becky Varnum completed an exciting three set win over Emily Bampton 6-:{, 5-7, 7-5 at No. 4 singles, to put the team up 5-1 after singles 
Notre Dame improves to 10-5 with the victory. The Hawkeyes fall to 8-4 with lhe loss. 
"Iowa was a solid team, all the way down the lineup," said junior Kl'lly Zalinski. "We really 
see TENNIS / page 20 
•Baseball at Villanova (DH) Saturday, noon 
• "? 
Softball vs. Toledo (DH) Saturday, l p.m. ~ 

.¦ BASKETBALL 

Majerus withdraws name from running 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Associat~.Spons Editor 

Many news services including ESPN -are reporting that Utah coach R i c k Maje,r us ha.?.·.·.•••with­
·a .f·a>w n 
hlniself from the list of pos­sible can­didates for th_e vacant Majerus h ..··6 ...a ... d 


,c,c!'~'yfiµgp9sition of t~e 
. lrisij ffieu\s basketball team.. 
MaJetus. ha,s stated for the past week that he was ''99 percent" sure that he would return,:to Utah, allhough he didsay that the Notre Dame openinfwas responsible for Jb~t:reroaitiii:ig one per(:ient 
.SP tU;rn.ed,d9wn
frorri ·San·• Qfegcf 
ettome the/next· coach. " 
vs. Ohio State 

~· 
Friday, 4 p.m. l,::::) 
vs. Hobart Sarnrday, 2 p.m. 

f!i 
In the past two years, Majerus has been offered head-coaching positions at SDSU, Texas and Arizona State. In the end, howevor, he has always returned to the Otes. 
The Irish now turn their attention to other coaching prospects. According to the South Bend Tribune, Princeton coach Bill Carmody interviewed with Notre Dame athletic direc­tor Michael Wadsworth and associate athletic director Bubb a Cunningham. Wadsworth declined com­ment of the alleged inter­view. 
"There are probably 15 million other people here, including some other bas­ketball coaches, so draw whatever conclusion you want," he told the Tribune. 
Prh1ceton athletic director James Price, however, con-
see MAJERUS I page 18 
vs. Michigan Today, 4 p.m. 
Sofchall at Concordia Today, 3 p.m. 








