Rocking into Tibet 
Leapin' Lefter 
Hddie Vedder. Run/JMC and the /Jeastie Boys 
Senior Mary Leffers leads the Irish volleyball 

Tuesday
were just some of the artists rocking into the 
team to a new season and new outlook. 
night at the Tibetian Freedom Concert. 
page 24 
SEPTEMBER 
page 15 
7, 1999 
THE 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 


VOL XXXI II NO. 11 
LOCKED OUT 

JOE STARK /The Observer 
Off-campus senior Tom Weiler is dismayed Monday at having to spend another day with dirty clothes. Many University and College offices, including St. Michael's Laundry, were closed for Labor Day. 


Activist will speak on military school 
By JESSICA DANES 
Ntw, Wrirt·r 
"1-'allrnr Hoy Borgnois will 
spPak  out  against  thn  
School  of  
School of  t  h  e  

!\nwricas, u

the 
training Americas camp !"or Latin
Father Roy 
American Borgeois, military offi­c Prs spon­
founder. 
son•d by Lhc 

School of the 
U.S. govorn­Americas ment, al 7 
p.m. loday

. 7p.m. 
in l he 

. Hesburgh 1111 s b II I' g h Lihrary
Library 
Auditorium. 

Auditorium 
As a critic of U.S. poli­cy in Cnnlral Anrnrica f'or yHars. Borg.-ois foundt!d the School of t!w Americas Watd1, an organizatinn that collucts inl'nrmaliou on School arlivilies ,rnd calls 
for its dosing. 
"We think sl.tidenls should comn lrnar Fatlwr Hoy talk because thnir lax dollars am paying for Latin !\m,~riran soldinrs to opprnss and murdt\r their own pnopl11," sai rl Shni I a McCarthy. a member of Notre Dame's chaplor of Pax Christi, which joins the Center l'or Social Concerns lo sponsor lhr. event. 
Borgeois has spent a total of !'our years in federal pri­sions l'nr various nouviulenl prolnsts against the School nl' America's uctivites. llis rll()Sl rncnn t six month sen­l n n rt> nudcd last September. 
Borgnois entcnnrl the Maryknoll Missionary Order i 11 I <)7 2 arle r sCrVi 11 g i ll Vir.tnam. 1111 work11d with thrf10 America nuns who wnrn murdnrnd in 1980 in Fl Salvador. Th11 ll.N. charg11d five Salvadoran militarv ollieors with the rrinrn; throe had atwnded the School. 
·rather Roy knew thn [three nuns/ killed, and it stimulated him to look doeper into tho atrocities in Latin America," said Elizabeth Moriarty, another membm-of" Pax Christi. 
· "lie resnarclrnd another incident. the murders of six Jesuits priests, their maid and her daughter, and found lhP murdernrs were graduates of the School of the Americas," Moriarty said. 
Established in 1946 in Panama to battle t.hc Cold War, tho School ol' the Americas moved to Fort Benning. Georgia. in 1984. Its 60,000 graduutes have earned thr.msP.lves a repu­tal.ion for brutalitv and human rights abuses." 
Notable alumni inclurlr. Manuel Noringa, a f'orrncr Panamanian dictatur cur­rnntly serving 40 years in prison for drug trafficking; Hoberto IJ'/\ubisson, a Salvadoran death-squad leader widely thought to 

have ordered the death of Archbishop Oscar Homnro; and three of five Salvadoran militarv officers 
U.N. investigators found guilty of the 1980 murders of three American nuns and one lay social worker. 
When the Pentagon admitted in 1996 the School had used manuals on the use of" fear. tortun~. and truth serum, its confession added to an already grow­ing movement against th11 school. 
Hep. Joseph Kennndy recently introduced a bill to close the training camp. 
The l'ounder ol' tlrn School of lhe Americas Watch. Father Hoy Borgeois. will present "School of t.hn Americas: School of' !\ssassins" at 7 p.m. today in the Ilesburgh Library auditorium. 
Borgeois also will sp<Htk Wednesday at 7 p.m. at Saint Mary's Little TheatM in Moreau Clrnter for the Arts. 
HTTP://OBSERVER.N D.EDU 
Karee01 leads civil engtneenng 
By KATE STEER 
News Writer 
Lod for four years by intMim chairnwn, tlrn departnrnnt ol' dvil enginnering and gnological sci1mnis named !\hsan Kanwm its pnrma­nent chairman. 
I\ memb1ir of' Notrn Damn's facul­ty since I990, Kareem is rnr.ogniwd as a lnading research11r in probabilistic s t .r u c t u r a I dynamics, fluid­strur.ture inter­actions, structur­al safety and the mitigation of nat­ural hazards. spedlically wind. waves and earth­quakes. 
Kareem said he hopns those qual­ifications will help him develop a long-term vision for the dnpart­ment. 
"One of' my goals is g1itting us excited about the work w1i do hem, and also reshaping thn undergradu­ate focus," h,~ said. "We'rn looking at thn undergraduatn curriculum and hoping to irnttnr prnpar11 our students l'or l'uturn job markPts. ''. 
While fulfilling his duties as chairman, Kareem will continun to serve as chief editor and associatn editor for two major international journals. lie also will rntain his positions on the editorial boards or five other journals which report wind. wave and earthquake issues. 
Kureem has served as chairman for several national and interna­tional conferences and tnchnical committees. lie is tlrn imnrndiate past presidnnt of' tlrn Anrnrican !\ssocialion for Wind Enginenring, which deals with wind-relawd haz­ards likn hurricanos and tornadrn1s. 
In 1984, Kareom rncniv1id tlrn Presidnntial Young Investigator Award from the National Sr.innrn Foundation. Ile also rncnivnd the I997 Engineering Award f'rorn thn National llurricann Conf'tH'1incti in honm~ of his contributions lo tlrn dnvelopment of' safor. more hurri­cane-resistant construction. 
Hocently hn was 1rnmcd Distinguislwd Alumnus of Colorado State University for his s1irvic11 to tlrn fi<lld of cnginnering through education, publication, lr.adorship and service. 
Karenm received his doctoral degrc11 from Colorado StatP University in 1978. lln 1rnnrnd his master's dPgreo through a joint program of MassachusPtls lnstitutn of' Technology and Univnrsity ol' Hawaii in 1975. 
Kareem's bachelor's degren was awarded with distinction from the 
West  Pakistan  UnivPrsity  of  
Engine(iring and  T1ich11ology  in  
l<JhX.  




page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Tuesday, September 7, 1999 
INSIDE COLUMN QUOTES OF THE WEEK 
Drea111 tnakes loss harder to bear 
If the month before Dec. 25 was not full of anticipation, Christmas morning may not invoke an overwhelming sense of loss after actually opening gifts. 
If young adults did not work 18 years hoping to get into their college of 
choice, rejection may not beas hard to take. 

Anticipation. Expectation. Hope. Dreams. Perhaps these are the real reasons behind the depression felt by the Notre Dame family after Saturday's loss to 

Michigan. 

Laura Rompf
Sure, each year Notre Dame begins a season with the hopes of winning a national championship; 
Copy Editor 
however, this year more hypi:, was added due to ele­mimts of tradition. 
I 966 ... 1977 ... 1988 ... every Notre Dame fan knew what logically followed those years. Wasn't it our destiny lo be playing Jan. 1 for the national title'? 
Or what about the third year of Davie's coach• ing era? Holtz. Leahy. Devine. Parseghian. Who says history doesn't repeat itself? 
As l returned from the Michigan State game last season, of course there was some sense of depression. The weekend before had seen a tri­umph in one of our greatest rivalry's. I lowever, my feelings of loss that Sunday did not compare to the sadness I felt this year. 
Last year. I had not anticipated bragging to my friends back home. This year on New Year's l would explain the immense joy that comes with going to the school that just won the national championship. 
Last year, I had not dreamt of redemption for 1993. This year we would regain our dignity in the freezing game against Boston College with an undefeated season on the line. 
Last year, I had not foreseen the day I would tell my children about my road trip to New Orleans. This year I would attend the National Championship Sugar Bowl game to cheer on the Irish. 
In my mind, there was no doubt: Inevitably, we would be ~o. 1 when the polls came out in 2000. 
After our field goal late in the fourth quarter w~ich gave us a 3-point advantage, my fantasy seemed infallible. llowever, I was quickly brpught back to reality when Michigan scored ag_ain. 
I could barely watch, and yet I knew fate was on our side. We were going to win. The Irish inched down the field as the clock wound down, and I anticipated the unprecedented celebration that would occur that night. 
And then. out of nowhere, the clock ran out. Michigan players and fans rushed the field, and I sat dazed wondering what happen to destiny. What happen to tradition. What happen to fate. 
Of course there is always next year. ls n't there always a next time? Maybe I should not have dreamt about winning. I do know that the anticipation for 1999 no doubt made Saturday's loss a much harder burden to bear. 
However, it's hard to say whether I learned anything from this experience. All I know is I'm already looking forward to next season ... '66, '77, '88. ·oo. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene Noreen Gillespie Emmett Malloy Laura Rompf Jennifer Zatorski Kate Steer Graphics 
Sports Mandi Powell Molly McVoy 
Production Viewpoint Kathleen O'Brien Mia Nussbaum 
Lab Tech Joe Stark 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday cxccp, during cum and i;at;ation periods. The Observer is a mcmbe1 of the k.»0datcd Press.. All rcptoduction nght.s are reserved. 
"There's been many  "The current status of  "It's important for  "/ thought it was a  
other bars with worse  SafeRide is that it's  members ofthe Task  disaster."  
situations and worse fights than ours.  not running and it's under a  Force to see this. don't want  We  Christine Veliky  
Compared to those  reconstructive effort ...  to be naive."  Farley senator on  
bars. we're the  football ticket distribution  
boy scouts. "  Tim Lyden  BIiie Hoye  
Student Union  Sweatshop Task Force  
Leon Townsend Irish Connection owner  transportation coordinator  chainnan on the group's trip to El Salvador  
OUTSIDE THE DOME  Compiled from U-Wire reports  

IU fraternity faces charges of sexual assault 
INDIANA UNIVERSITY ''All I wanted was an apology house arrest. Tracy Guthrie battled nine years "It was extremely frustrating,"
, andfor the members to stand 
to hear the news she received this Guthrie said. "We had a taped con­summer. up and be responsible men." fession. I had practiced in the (wit­After a series-of legal delays and ness) box and the day beforn the contradictory rulings by lower trial he gets this plea bargain. Ile
Tracy Guthrie 

courts, the Indiana Supreme Court just had to sit at home; he didn't
plantiff in lawsuit against IU
decided she woul.d tell her story to have to sacriitce anything." a jury. chapter of Delta Tau Delta She said the entire process left 
The unanimous July 12 decision her feeling powerless. allows Guthrie to go forward with "I just wantnd control over some­her lawsuit against the IU chapter married. thing," she said. "I would never of Delta Tau Delta, and may bring In her first public interview about pursue this for money. Initially, all changes and set legal precedents the sexual assault and lawsuit, I wanted was an apology and for that affect local Delts' members. Guthrie said late Wednesday the members to stand up and b(i fraternities· nationwide and any evening her goal with the litigation responsible men. If there is any private property owners. is and has always been to seek jus­financial gain it will go to a rape 
Guthrie was an 18-year-old tice and a public apology for the crisis fund." freshman when she was sexually actions of Motz and the fraternity. Guthrie added that she has noth­assaulted by Joseph :'vtotz during a She filed suit after being dissatis­ing against the greek system. She Homecoming party at the fraternity fied with the plea bargain Motz was in Zeta Tau Alpha. and her 
Oct. 14, 1990. She was known then received; he pleaded guilty to sexu­husband was in Pi Kappa Alpha as Tracy Johnson; she has since al battery and served a year of while they attended IU. 
Student clubs seek corporate funds 
GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY 
An initiative to provide Georgetown University clubs with corporate funding is on the verge of administrative approval, according to GUSA President Ron Palmese The program, organized by Palmese and fellow GUSA members Benny Adler) and Peter Corsell, would enable corporations" to make tax-deductible donations to stu­dent organizations, making it much more likely that a corporation would invest in the university. "Things look very promising," said Palmese. The proposal calls for the creation of the Georgetown Funding Commission, which would provide students with greater fiscal auton­omy and the chance to solicit outside financial support, according to Corse!!. The proposed bylaws of the GFC have been reviewed by Dean of Students James A. Donahue and Director of Student Programs Mary Kay Schneider, Palmese said. According to Schneider, the GFC has enormous potential. "[The program] is a chal­lenging one, but if the students are diligent, they can accomplish much," she said. At present, the majority of student organizations receive funding only from the university's annual budget. 
Gay boy scout gets justice 
RUTGERS UNIVERSITY 

Nine years after he was expelled from the Boy Scouts of America for being gay. Rutgers University alumnus James Dale said he feels like justice has been served. On August 4. the State Supreme Court unani­mously ruled the Boy Scouts' ban on gays is illegal according to the New Jersey's anti-discrimination law. The court. which upheld an earlier 1998 appellate court decision, said because the Boy Scouts organiza­tion is a place of public accommodation, it falls under the state's anti-discrimination law. The law states that a person cannot be denied accommodations, advan­tages, facilities and privileges due to sexual orienta­tion. The Boy Scouts argued that their decision to expel Dale should be protected under the First Amendment, but the court said to recognize the Boy Scouts' First Amendment claim would be "tantamount to tolerating the expulsion of an individual solely because of his status as a homosexual -an act of dis­crimination unprotected by the First Amendment." The decision is an important one for the struggle to end unfair treatment of groups of people, Dale said. 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

AccuWeather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures The AccuWeathe~ forecast for noon, Tuesday, Sept. 7. 
Tuesd~y {): Wednesday ~A 79. 60 Thursday ~ 71:.;_. <59 
' ' ' ' ' ==.: :::~----<},:ti,· <!%\>\L·\'.::·
' ' ' ' ' 
FRONTS:

Friday,! c::1r~ 66 53 
.....,,... .a....&. ~ 

C 1999 AccuWeather', Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
p,.,uurtJ: 
() fJ,·.. . ... 
,.,E.'$.(..

Saturday . _,,, t)-68 49 ® © . [Z] CJ] ., E2]. . ~ 
High !-,QW Showers Rain T-storma Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy
(Y• •:} "' '•---.....,.-•/ \..,,/ •w•,;,­
Via Associaled Press 

Beverly Hills 80 64 Durham 90 69 McAllen 92 74 
Bloomington 84 58 Fort Worth 94 70 Oakland 77 57 
Buffalo 78 62 Honolulu 85 70 Phoenix 108 80 Showers T·s,orms Ra,n Flumes Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Chicago 82 62 Las Vegas 102 74 Portland 80 52 Via Assoc,a/ed Press GraphicsNet Des Moines 82 54 Lexington 84 56 Providence 78 66 

Q,Q,~~~~ ~~a 
... ------•---­
~--------­
Tuesday, September 7, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Group addresses image concerns 
• Body image, esteem focus of new support group 
By KAREN SCHAFF 
News Writer 
In an attempt to address t:om:erns al.Joul studnills· body images and issues with rood, the Saint Mary's Counsnling and Canrnr DHvelopmenl C1mtnr will introduce a sup­port group for fomalPs strug­gling with tlrnsc isi;uns. 
"Ealing disorders are usual­1y surrnunded with much s·lrnme nnd guilt," said Kristina 1'1indley, personal counselor and director of the nnw body imago program at Saint Mary's College. 
Tlrn group is dnsigned to IH\lp wonwn deal with snll'­1isll'1i111 and undnrstand their 1•1110tio11s. 
"IL is dcsignod for girls who don't havn a good handle on mnotions and what th1•y foeI." l'nndley said. "It wilt help girls und11rstand why they do what they do.·• 
Thu program hopt1s to enlist four to •~ight students in each 
group. The groups arc com­or know someone who is in pletely confidential, based need of help, to make an upon the cooperation of the appointment. group. "It has been brought to 
The idea is based upon the attention that body image is "ABC system," Pendley said, very important among women 
referring to lhe  of  all  
crePcl of' act.ivat­ ages and  
ing what brought upon the problem,  "ft is designed for girls who don ·c have a good  race," Pendley said.  
having a  bnlief  handle on emotions and  Many  
system, knowing  and thn  what they feel. "  women arc very  
cunsm1 uencns of  unhappy  
actions.  Kristina Pendley  w  i  t  h  
The group will  director, body image program  they how  

focus not just on the body, but nutrition, m(Jd• em culture and a realistic outlook on life, Pendley said. 
To enter the group, partici­pan ls can maki• an appoint­ment with Pendley by calling 284-4565. Thfl appointment will help evaluate conditions and place people in groups of women with similar prob­!11ms. 
The program has been atlHmpted pruviously. but because of a lack of interest it was dropped. 
Pendley urges womim who have an interest in the group, look or 
how they 
perceive themselves, she added. This is when women resort to eat­ing disorders. 
Studies estimate nearly 5 million Americans suffer from eating disorders, two to three percent of them are college age. 
WomPn with eating disor­ders tend to suffer from car­diac problems, studies show, including low blood pressure. fatigue and dizziness. Eating disorders can eventually cause osteoporosis and infer­tility. 

Check out more about the Sacrament of 
Cottfirmatiott 
Arc 'iO« ~ b~ptiut> Catholic who h~s ttever bcm Cottfirn-1ctl? 
Arc '10« wottberh15 whether \.-fOlA ttcct, to be Cottfinttct, to set mamet> itt the c~tholic Church? 

W oult> '101A like to prcp~rc for Cottfirm~tiott with other Notre Dame srut,mts who are t,ct,icatet, to 5roW1tt5 itt their f~ith? 
For more information about the Confirmation program, come to an information session at: 
Sicsfrict, 01apd 
on T ~csba\1. Sept. 7th 
at 1:00 pm 
Please contact Fr. John Conley, CSC or Clare Sullivan at 631-3389 or stop by the Badin Campus Ministry office with any questions. 
-0MPUS 
MINISTRY 

SAT includes social factors in scores 
U-Wirc 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, N.C. 

To help colleges and univer­sities with the sticky admis­sions process, the Educational Testing Service, the company behind lhe SAT, may soon label high-scoring studcmts who have overcom£~ adverse ~oc!al ..backgrounds as 
strivers. 
The system still is in the research stages, but anti­affirmative action activists fear the acceptance of a model which takes into account a student's race. 
Using survey questions at the begin­ning of the 
unless it was proven widely successful by other schools," she said. 
Karen Holt, Office of Minority Programs director, said it was unlikely that the system would have much influence on University admissions. 
"We have a holistic process that takes so much into account during the applica­tion process that it probably won't affect us much," Holt said. 
She said the tool would be more helpful for colleges and universities "that don't have the staff or the time to do what we do here." 
"Many 
selective 

test. the "Many selective colleges colleges
system 
already take into already
would con­
take into

sider 14 consideration the back­
considera­factors in grounds ofthe applicants. tion the
determin­
but this new system would b a c k . 
ing a stu­
grounds of

dent's provide profiles of 
applicants,

environ­
students on a scale never but this new 
ment. 
system

before seen."
Issues 
would pro­such as 

vide profilesparents' Joyce Smith of students 
education 
executive director, National on a scale
level, fami­
Association of College Admissions n e v e r 
ly income 
before

Officers
amounts, 
attendance of inner-c i t y schools, speaking English as a second language and having economically disadvantaged classmates all would be fac­tors surveyed on the SATs. 
Students who scored at least 200 points higher than the average student with a comparably disadvantaged background would merit the title "striver" on their scores. 
University of Virginia assis­tant dean of students Glenna Chang said the SATs have been criticized in the past for racial bias. and now it sounds as though they are trying to equalize. 
Chang said she was unsure exactly how the University would handle the new infor­mation. 
"My guess is that we would not take on this program seen," said 
J O y C e 

Smith, exec­utive director of the National Association of' College Admissions Officers. 
"Can you imagine having a database of 1 million students annually?" Smith said. "From a perspective of having rich data, it's kind of exciting." 
As an admissions officer, she said she would be more interested in acqu1rrng socioeconomic information from the tool rather than information on race. 
"We may get a more mean­ingful profile that we may use instead of our intuition or our gut," she added. , 
Black Student Alliance Co­President Fabienne Nicaisse said the tool may be benefi.: cial, but that it could cause problems if race was one of the factors considered in the new survey. 

PART TIME POSITIONS  
AVAILABLE  
**  BACK OF THE NET SPORTS SALE ASSOCIATES  
**  CUSTODIAL/ MAINTENANCE  
**  SOCCER REFEREES  
**  CONCESSIONS  
**  SOCCERINSTRUCTORS  
**  OFFICE RECEPTIONISTS  

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT 
243-5777 

JOB APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE 
AT 

SOCCERZONE 1435 UNlVERSITY DR, GRANGER, INDIANA 46530 
(Near University Park Mall, East of the Mall and Main Street) 
GOT NEWS? 
Call The Observer News Department at 631-5323. 

page 4 The Obse;ver . BUSINESS NEWS Tuesday, Sepcember 7, 1999
~~~~~---=---~---_-_-_-_-=-:_=========================================================================== 
All Students interested in joining the Men's and Women's Track Team: 
Informational Meeting 
Wed. Sept. S'th @ 4:00 PM Loftus Auditorium 
Happy 21st, Timmy I 
Legally leading the drinking team with 
r----------------------, 

a news
Shorin-Ryu Karate 
probleml
•Di.sc{pli.ne •Self-Defense 
•Self Confidence •Fitness 
Regtster in Advance at RecSports For More Info. Call 1-6100 Demonstroti.on Tuesday, September 7, Rockne Rm. 219 6:30PM 
.z;?,,,c:_~~~ 
www.nd.c<lu/~recsport
~-------------------~--J Auction lists babies for sale 
. eBay yanks three baby listings from online auction page 
Associated Press 

SAN JOSE. Calif. 
Less than a week after a kidney was offered on the onlinc auction site eBay, at least three listings of babies for sale were posted on the Web site. 
All appeared to be hoaxes and were taken down: Steve Westly, ellay's marketing vice president, said Monday. 
One posting, offering a baby boy, drew a high bid of $109,100. 
Thi" seller purported to offor a boy. due to be born later this month, who would be the child of two law students at the University of Chicago. The posting also offered "intelligencP. scores of parents ... upon request."' 
Selling children is_ illegal. The r.ompany would not say whetlrnr law-enforcement officials were investigating. 
Ollicials at eBay said they believe the postings were at least partially inspired by the kidney offering, in which a Florida man received bids of' up to 55.6 million. eBay said that was also probably a prank. 
Earlier this year, San fose-based eBay banned the sale of guns and ammunition on the site. aft.er people tried selling a missile, a bazooka, a rocket launclrnr and other military weapons. 
Pfizer challenges federal recommendation 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Pharmaceutical giant Pfizer Inc. is try­
ing to convince doctors the best drug for 
children's car infections is not the cheap, 
proven antibiotic the government recom­
mends, but Pfizer's own pricey product. 
The Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention said in January that amoxi­
cillin should be doctors' first choice for 
treating ear infections, which account for 
25 million visits to doctors' offices each 
year. 
The CDC ranked Pfizer's competing 
Zithromax among other antibiotics that 
"lack good evidence" for effectiveness 
against car infections. 
But the consumer advocacy group 
Public Citizen uncovered a schedule for 
Pfizer teleconferences targeted at doctors 
nationwide "to counter the CDC guide­
lines. 
"We urge you to inform the nation's 
pediatricians ... of this campaign so they 
are nut duped into draining the Medicaid 
•program of needed resources and of' wasting large amounts of money on treat­ing other patients with this needlessly expensive and second-r~tc drug for car infections," the advocacy group said in a letter to Health and lluman Services Secretary Donna Shalala. 
A Pfizer spokeswoman defended the 
campaign. saying the Food and Drug 
Administration had approved Zithromax 
for treating ear infections. 
Consequently, "everything we're doing 
is under the umbrella of what we're 
allowed to do according to the FDA," said 
spokeswoman Mariann Caprino. 
The CDC is "just basically weighing in 
with yet another opinion," she added, not­
ing the agency's amoxicillin recommenda­
tion is not an o!liciul treatment guideline. 
As for the Pfizer teleconference sched­ule, Caprino said "it's not a corporate doc­ument that came down from on high" and it probably came from "someone in one of our sales forces." 

Pfizer has aggressively promoted Zithromax to doctors and parents, includ­ing giving away the drug's beanbag mas­cot "Max the Zebra." Max lives on an Internet site called KidsRars, which tells parents to ask their doctors about Pfizer's drug. 
Zithromax. which had $1 billion in sales in 1998, has become popular largely because it is only given once a day for five days. In comparison, amoxicillin is taken twice a day for 10 days. 
A standard treatment of amoxicillin for a 22-pound baby costs less than $10, while Zithromax costs about $30. 
The FDA approves the sale of U.S. drugs. but it almost never ranks one drug as better than another, leaving the deci­sion to doctors and medical societies. Because choosing the best antibiotic for each infection is crucial -especially now that bacteria evolve to resist treatments -the CDC issued its recommendations. 
Tho CDC said using higher doses of amoxicillin cau overcome some resistant ear infections, but the same tactic doesn't work with Pfizer's Zithromax. 
"We stand behind what we recommend in the guidelines. and it's not surprising that not everybody's happy about the rec­ommendations that we made or that a corn pany whos11 product was not in the first line recommendations isn't happy," said Dr. Scott Dowell, the leading author of the CDC paper. 
But, he noted, the CDC was making "suggestions" and "didn't have any intent of endorsing any specific commercial product or company." 
The bigger issue is which drug would best benefit children. 
On \\1ay 18, Dr. Russell Steele, vice­chairman of pediatrics at Louisiana State University, hosted a Pfizer teleconference in which he questioned the effectiveness of amoxicillin against resistant infections and proposed using the family of antibi­otics that includes Zithromax as a first choice. 
Steele, who was paid by Pfizer for his presentation, said the CDC's suggestion of increasing the dose of' amoxicillin to over­come resistant infections would be too expensive. 
But a 1998 study concluded the Pfizer drug "had an unacceptably high failure rate," said study author Dr. Candice Johnson of Children's Hospital in Denver. 
In that study, Augmentin, which com­bines the antibiotics amoxicillin and clavulanate, wiped out children's ear infections 83 pfircent of thfl time, while Zithromax only worked in 49 porcent. 
"I've been involved in studies of this sort for about twenty years and this is the lowest rate I've ever seen for an antibiot­ic," Johnson said. 
Steele countf\rnd that when the study tested one of the most common types of bacteria that causes ear infoctions, the dilfornnces hetwcnn thfl two drugs W()nl too small to b(\ significant. 
Praising the CDC for providing guid­ance, Johnson said, "It's bonn a very con­fusing thing for the avnruge doctor and practice to know what drug to us11." 
UNIIEHITY LIINDIIY & TINNING SEPTEMBER SPECIALS: 
FRH DRYING All MONTH DROP OFF IAUNDRY 49C /LB. $4MINIMUM 
TANNING 10 VISITS $19.99 TO BE USED WITHIN 3MONTHS 


orld 
I ¦ 

'li1esday, September 7, 1999 COMPILF.D l1HOM THE OBSERVER }VIHE SERVICES page 5 

WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Two children killed during parade 
NEW YOHK 
Two I 1-yPar-old rhildr<'II dancing bd1ind a l111al at a Wnst Indian paradn Monday were killc•d wlwr1 llwy WPr!' hit by the !1oat !whine! t!l!'rn . .losPph 1>01111 and Zacdwl David woni danl'in~ lwhi111I a !foal itltaclwd to a truck thal sl11ppml sudcknly. Tlin drivor of tho rwxt 1'111al 1,11uld11'L stop in Liuw and hit tlw chil­drPtl, pulic•p said. Four otlwr pPoplu, inrlucling two I0-yr,ar-old children, wNe takr111 lo llu• lrospil/11 with minor i11_itiri1:s. Tim driwir of the lirst float was HITl'Stnd on a c·harge of driving with a SUSIH'll<ll'li licl'usn, policn said, Tnns of Uwusands of rt•vd!'rs from murn than 12 island nations lirwd stniPls in Brnoklyn f'or tho a-111111al Wt>st ludiau Aninrican Carnival l'aradc>. 
Israel bans torture during interrogations 
.IEHUSALEM 
SPtti11g a landmark in Israel's (kcadns-old l'onl'lict l)('twnPn dPmo1:ra(:y and sPcurity. hPtwn,•11 nis1H•cting human rights and protect­ing l'.iti1Pns from tnrrorisrn, tlw Suprnnw Court on Monday hamwd the use• of torture in intnrro­gations. Tlw ruling carrni just mw day al'l!!r two rnr bombs w1i11L off. just the latest of doznns of allacks that hav11 killPd hunrJn,ds ol' Israeli civil­ians in nicr!llt years. Shin Br,t security agents will 110 l011g1'r he allow11d to tie Palestinian sus­perts with lhdr hands bPhind their backs to a rail undt>r an air rnnditio1wr in the middle of wintPr. T111•y will no long,ir lw abl!i to grab sus­pPrts l'rnm lwhiml and shakP tlwm violPntly, a praclil'P lhal !Pd to lh1• dt•ath of at lt-ast orw l'alf'sfinian. Prim!' MinistPr lihud Barnk said in a slall'llll'tll tlmt hi' n•spt•clml tlw court's ckci­-.i1111 llul that "ii Sf'l'lllS as though tlw clni:ision will nu1k1• things vl'ry clinintlt l'or llw Shin llt!l, and, in onkr to saw livt's, WP nrnid to find a way" to t•xtracl information from a suspPct. 
Man serving life sentence may be innocent 
Si\NT;\ ANA. Calif. 
A lllHll who has sPrV<'d 11) yPars in prison for 11111nll'r might win a rww !rial hrn:ausn lwo wit­11Pssns who iclPnlifiPd him at his trial rmw say tlwy pkknd thP wrong man. tlw Orange County l!Pgislf'r n•porLPd. Tlw dPvtilopm1mL is nnough to warrant a rww invPstigation in thn casn of irnprismwd Dwayne McKinney, said Orange County District i\tlornny Tony Hackauckas, who prosPnllPd the case. 'Tm not n~ady lo say, 'Oh. my gosh, wn've got tlw wrong guy.' But wp'rn going to takP a hard look al it," Hackaurkas said. "Sunwthing liko this isn't going to bf' takP11 lightly. W11'n\ not in the busi­tlf•ss or trying lo kt'l'P innocPnt pPople in jail." l'uhlir llPli·ndt•r Carl llolnws said Im will file a motion this w1!11k s1111king a rww trial. 
Turkey questions contractor 
ISTANBUL 
Poli.co dntairwd a l'ugitivo contractor Monday whose allPgP<lly substandard buildings col­lapsNI in TurkPy's tiarthquako, compouncling Uw disaswr. Vtili (iocnr in Istanbul was tracked down at a rdativp's housP wlmni hn Imel gmrn inln ltidi11g aflnr !lw /\Ilg. 17 quake, private NTV t(dnvision said. l'olicn said h11 wo11ld be qtwslionnd in connection with hundn~ds of dnaths. Turkoy's 1•,011l.ractors hav.1 been tlrn ohjt•cl of public condtmmation since the quukn, acn1snd 111' shoddy building conslruction thal t'.ornpomal11d tlw natural disashir. Policll have dt•tnirwd other contractors sincn tlw quak11, som1• of' Uwm 011 c!rnrgns of negligence. But sonw ollicials say Crocnr is the biggnst offondcr. S1~wral rnnLractors nrn lrnlinvcd to havo flnd Turkoy. News rnpurts havn quot11d Gocer as arknowll•dging in lelnphonn int11rvicws that nearly !iOO of the 3,00D unil'i lhal he built in the town ofYalova collapsed in tlw narthquake. 
RUSSIA 

Soldiers killed, volunteers mobilize 
Associ,ncd l're,s 
MAKIIACIIKALA 
/\ shootout with Islamic militants al a 1rnlicn stalion lflft l 4 Hussian troops dead Monday, whil<' rt1sidents of llw southern republic of' Dagestan bocanrn increasingly angry that fed­eral forces have !'ailed to· oust the rnbcls dnspite a month of lighting, 
The militants, seeking an indepen­dent Islamic state. have battled Hussian troops si11c(1 seizing several villages in Dagestan on Aug. 7. Govnrnment troops rnspondcd with air and ground attacks, pushing the rebPls out ol' some arnas. 
But rPncwcd violcnct~ in recent days has made clear that the mili­tants am still intent on attacking Hussian targets, and are not the h1•atnn force that the Hussian mili­tary leadership has described, 
Prnsidcnt Boris Yeltsin on Monday called the Dagestan lighting "a real thrnal to Hussia's integrity." spokesman Ilmitry Yakushkin said on Hussian television. Yeltsin feels thn Chechnya war was "onfl of his big mistakes," Yakushkin said, and he doesn't want to repeat it. 
At least 14 members of the gov­ernment security forces were killed in heavy fighting late Sunday and early Monday in Novolakskoye, in western Dagcstan. 
The rebels surrounded the police station late Sunday night and a shootout lasted for hours until a Hussian armored column was able lo break through and reach llrn sta­tion. Them was no word on rebnl casualties. 
About 25,000 Dageslani volun­teers havP signed up to trnlp fight tlrn rebels, the head of' Dagestan's Security Council. Akhmandnabi MagdigadzhiyPv, said Monday. Many volunlenrs have already joined fed­ora! forces. 
In tlrn Dageslani capital of Makhachkala, volunlenrs are going from apartment to apartment, warn­ing people to report suspicious cars and umtlt11nded objects. 
Also, the death toll reached 52 l'rom a Saturday night bomb attack that demolislrncl a building housing Hussian military families in central Dagnslan, Hussian news agencies reported Scores wern injured. Most of' the victims were women and chil­dren, 
The Hussians again appeared to be caught off guard by the latest actions of the rebels, who crossed 

Clinton denounces GOP tax cut plan 
Associated Press 
NOHFOLK. Va. 
President Clinton chose an over­crowded elementary school Monday as tlrn backdrop for a rnnewcd assault on the Republican-passed tax cut plan, which 
Democrats con­tend would stl'a.l money from des­rrnrately needed school construc­tion programs. 
At Coleman P I a c c Elemflntarv 

School, built i;1 Clinton 1924, Clinton called on Ropublicans in Congrnss to 

into Dagestan from neighboring breakaway Chechnya, Unlikr, in Chechnya, where residents support­nd rebels in their 1994-96 war against Hussian troops, resident, or Dagcstan have largely supported the federal forces in this summer's standoff. 
But frustration is mounting that tlrn fighting has dragged on. and local television reports have criti­cized the Hussian forces for being disorganized and ineffective. 
In another development, Hussian warplanes bombed rebel targets in Chechnya, just across the border from the Novolakskoye region, Chechen officials claimed Monday that several villagers were killed in the bombing Sunday night. 
"leave politics at the school house door" and embrace his proposal fur tax breaks to help school districts repair, expand and modernize schools. 
Clinton, before addressing parents. teachers and students who had gath­ered on the school softball field, 
joined in renovating one of the 
schools classrooms. 
Using a cordless clcctrir, drill, the 
president fastened about eight 
screws to attach the top of a comput­
er table. 

Then addressing the crowd, 
Clinton attacked the GOP tax cut 
plan, which he already has promised 
to veto. 

"It means larger classes, fewer stu­dents and more leaky roofs," said Clinton. 
The raids risk triggering a nPw war with Chechnya, which won de l'acto independence •in the I1)94-6 war. 
In Moscow, Hussian Primo Minister Vladimir Putin met with Lop security officials Monday to plot Hussia's strategy, while critics said the crisis in Dagestan was worsen­ing, 
Alexander Shokhin. a moderate who is a prominent rnembnr or par­liament, described the Dagcstan events as a "rull-scale undeclared war." 
The lighting has hit several differ­ent areas of Dagcslan, The first vil­lages the rnbels seized were in the Bollikh region on the western bor­der. 
Later al a Labor Day picinic at the home of' the mother ol' Hep, Bobby Scott, l>-Va,, Clinton rcnnwed his attack on the COi' tax proposal. 
"Before we have this big tax cut the Republicans have proposed, we ought to take cam of the big challenges fac­ing America," declared the prnsident, ticking off protecting Social Socurity, Medicarn and education "We ought to get this coun1ry out or deht for the first time since 1835 before wn give lhe money away." 
"I am not against rutting taxns" said Clinton at the school, but that the Republican's $792 billion cut over 10 years would mean sharp cuts in domestic spending including nduca­tion. 
The Democrats have suggested a more modest nearly $300 billion cut. 
page 6 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, September 7, 1999 
Settlement nearing in Detroit teacher strike 
• Labor Dayparade plagued by contract dispute 
Associated Press 

DETROIT 
Amid hints ihat a settle­ment could be close. striking teachers brought their mes­sage to the street Monday, toting signs saying "No r.(m­tract, no work" as they marched in the city's Labor Uay parade. 
Negotiations between teachers and the school board resumed Monday, with district officials voicing opti­mism about reaching a deal on Labor Day. 
"Both sides have indicated that today we could likely see a settlement," district spokesman Stan Childress said Monday. 
"I do know that all of the issues that had been on the table were embodied in the final settlement package." 
John Elliott, the president of the Detroit Federation of Teachers, told the Detroit Free Press he was confident an agreement could be reached Monday. He said the union and the school district had reached agreement on substantial issues, but that stumbling blocks of an eco­nomic nature remained. 
Teachers in the 172,000­student district rejected an offer to extend their contract last week, spurning their own negotiators' recommen­dations for another extension and stalling last Tuesday's scheduled start of classes. 
Issues have included class size and reforms proposed by the administration. 
Some teachers marching in the parade predicted a settle­ment wasn't close. 
"It's going to be far inade­quate," teacher Steve Cohn said of any possible offer. 
Teacher Phyllis Harris, a member of the union's exec­utive board, said teachers can't decide how to vote on a proposed contract until they actually see it. 
"We've got to get the pack­age first," said Harris, who wasn't taking part in negoti­ations. "They haven't brought us anything back yet." 
The previous contract between the school system and the 9,200 teachers rep­resented by the union expired June 30, and an extension ran out Aug. 30. 
The teachers had been unhappy with proposals for a longer school day, merit pay and other reforms proposed bv the troubled district's new chief executive, David Adamany. 
Adamany took the place of the superintendent after the Legislature voted in March to replace Detroit's elected school board with one appointed by the mayor. 
There has been speculation that the teachers could face increasing pressure this week to head back to the classroom based on a 1994 no-strike law th11.t fines teachers one day's pay for each day on strike. 
State House Speaker Chuck Perricone and Senate Majority Leader Dan DeGrow have said they will call back legislators this week, if nec­essary, to explore action to end the strike. 
'Tm moving to invoke fines on the illegally striking teach­ers," said state Sen. David Jaye. 
"I want Detroit teachers to lose a day's pay for every day they strike," Jaye added. 
As the walkout continued, the city's schoolchildren looked for other ways to occupy their time. 
Mark DeMarco, 9, likes the extended su111mer playtime but said he wants to go back to school. His grandmother, Leatha Jones, 49, said she hopes a settlement comes soon, but she supports the teachers. 
"Really, the class sizes should be smaller. Maybe the kids could learn a little more," Jones said. 

Discover Financial Services, Inc. abusiness unit of Morgan StanllJ'/ Dean 'Mtter &Co., operates all Discover Brands with more than 46 million cardmembers and the DiscC11er°/Novus Network'. The network Is tile largest independent credit card network in the United Stales with more than 3million merchant and cash access locations. We are currently seeking individuals with experience in any of !he following areas: 
COBOL• CICS • VSAM ¦ DB/Z • JCL C • C++ • JAVA • ORACLE • UNIX ASSEMBLER • WINDOWS 95/NT • OOP PU1 • DATA WAREHOUSING • OS/Z 

We offer awide array of workplace amenities including excellent salaries and benefits, 401K, profit sharing, tlJition reimbursement, fitness center and acasual dress envirmmeot. If unable to anend, please send your 
scanable resume to: Discover Financial Services, Inc. Human Resources, IT Recruiter 2500 Lake Cook Road • Riverwoods, IL 60015 Fax: f847t 405-1388 
Visit our Web Site at: 
www.novusnet.com 
EOEWF/ON
l•MII 

School security raises concern 
Still, some students have 
A.<sociated Press 
won. 
Dtifstudents 

In Allen, Texas, senior WASHINGTON Jennifer Boccia is back in 
snrrender

As America's children head school after having last 
back to school, security-con­spring's suspension 
scious school administrators expunged from her record. ijgbts? 
arc also having to think about She and nine other stu­
students' rights. dents wore black armbands 
Hloody tragedies, especially to class to mourn the 
last April's incident in which C:olumbine victims and to 
two students at Columbine protest new rules imposed 
W~~t~pout students'

High School in Littleton Colo., in their school as a result. prtv~c;y tights? . gunned down a dozen class­Jennifer, an honors student, The Constitution·s mates and a teacher before was suspimded after ignor­
Fourth Amendment,

killing themselves, left an ing an ordcF to remove the which protects againstindelible mark. armband. 
unreasonable searches 

As a result, police officers, "The school district just 
and setzures, applies in

metal detectors, student ID would not acknowledge that 
puhUciscbools, .but scnool

cards and surveillance cam­the First Amendment officials gt~tmore lee\Nay
eras are part of lil'e in schools applies to students," said than police. And school ·across the nation. So are rou­
Diana Philip, an AC.LU searches of' lockers and
tine backpack searches, regional director in Dallas. backpacks, even the use 
increased use of drug tests, "We had to take them to 
of metal detectors, are

stricter dress codes and less court before an agreement 
n)u~.b easier to jus.Hfy

tolerance for schoolyard 
could be reached." ·Wheh .tb~ target is illegal 
taunts or threats. Ray Vasvari, the Ohio drugs or weapons. 
· All of this worries Nadine ACLU's legal director, cited Sti.ll. courts generallyStrossen, national president of two "invasions of student 
require "individualized 

the American Civil Liberties rights" that were chal­, suspicion,''. in certain cir­Union. "We're seeing the lenged successfully. In one, 
cumstances, barring

equivalent. of Portress a Stow boy was suspended scltoot . officl-:1.ls frpm
America, and students' pri­from classes for a personal ·· searching all student.(! in a 
vacy rights and freedom of Website entitled "Stow High room jtist because one of 
speech are under attack School Sucks." In another, a them may have stolen
from within," she said. Youngstown area high some money or smuggled
But the ACLU, aggressively school sought to administer in a pack of cigarettes. 
challenging policies in many drug tests for all students What about drug tests? 
public school districts, may participating in extracurric­The law is still· evolving be fighting an uphill battle. ular activities. 
on this issue. The

"In the wake of increasing "The post-Columbine Supreme Court ruled in 
violence, courts seem to reaction is regrettable," 
1995 that student athletes

have become more deferen­Vasvari said. "When rights could be subjected to ran­
tial to school districts' gen­are whittled away, they 
dom drug tests because

uine concern for student tend not to return." 
the a-th\etic programs are

safety and security," said In Mississippi, the voluntary and student
Cynthia Prettyman, general Harrison County School athletes are role models.
counsel for Palm Beach Board rescinded a policy 
Since then, some lower

County, Fla., schools. that barred a Jewish boy courts have allowed drug
"Students still have rights from wearing his Star of 
testing of students

and I'm sure the ACLU will David pendant after the 
engaged in other 

stay on top of this, but any ACLU sued on his behalf. 
extracurricular activities,legal challenge will face a School officials had consid­

high hurdle." ered it a gang symbol. 

ffhursda!. September 9 
or Seniors, 2nd Ye'ar S\\CBAs, and S in .,\_Ccountanci Students Career Worum, 6:00 pm to 8:30 pm 
S:rid,r~, September 10 
or 1st Ye'ar S\\CB-7\.S. 3uniors, opftomores and a:-reshmen 
Career g7orum, 10:00 am to 3:30 pm C/nfc,r,matlon8essfons, 9:35 am to 2:45 pm 
(Ilusiness /4tlre CEncouraaed 
Tuesday, September 7, 1999 The Observe; . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
RUSSIA 
Soldiers kill three Serbs after fire 
Pl1ISTINA In th11 blooclinsl incident of the 
· thrnrHnonth peac11kfi1•ping mis­sion iri Kosovo, Hussian soldiers 011 Mnnday killnd thrnc Serbs whu lirPd on llwm aftPr rnlitsing to stop bPaling lwo Albanians w11111uhid in n gunbilltln. 111 ll,dgradc. nwanwhili'., a SPllior Hussian diplomat at:cusnd NATO 111' trying to und1\rc11t Yugoslav s0Vf!r1:ig11ty over Kosovo and warned that Moscow will oppos1• any WPstPrn plans for tlw Kosovo Liberation Army thal °fall short of cornplet1•ly rlis­muntliHg iL DP!Htly l•ornign Minisl!lr Aloksandar Avd11ycv did not ('luhoral<i. llowovnr, NATO sourrm;, s1makin~ on condition of' anonymity, s:1icl tlw alliam:ci has l.t!lllativcly agn\crl to transform !lw KIA into a "Kosovo Corps" aftnr tlw Snpt 19 c!Parllinn for Lim l'ormt•r gtwrrillas to hand over all tlwir WN1pnns and "dmnilitarizP.·· 
Acrording lo Caµt. Larry Kaminsky. spok<'sman !'or U.S. troops at Cnjilann, Hussian sol­dit!f"S rush,id lo a road nnar Hanilug !'arly Monday aflPr !war­ing gunf1rn. i\t tlrn s1:Pne, th,~y found thrn11 armnd Serb 1111!11 h1H1ting a wou1Hlc\d nthnir Albanian man. Two ollwr ;\llmnians. 0111' critically wound­I'd and one c!Pad, W(ff<' found in a 111•arby car. 
The! l!ussians {)nlrirnd tlw s,1rbs to stop. lnsl!!ad, llw Snrhs shot at tlw Hussians, who 
\."",'\'f;~·'
."If,•,,_.,... ,,. 

ai1r;i~mn; . 
I. , 
;,. ,., 
, < _..,, ,' I 
/' .• -~­
.; 
':.. 
' f 
returned fire, killing all three. bombing campaign. Thnre were no Russian r-asual­NATO Secretarv General Javier tir.s. Solana, who arr'ived here for a 
Thc1 incident in the American brief visit, said the Russian action sector of Kosovo was under Monday "is only a proof that the invnstigalion. Two cars, both Russians behave" in accordance splattPred with blood and full of with regulations. 
bullet holes, wore found at the scmH', about hall' a miln from tlin rhnr.k­point. 
Hesidents of llanilug t o I d rnportcrs the three men wcHe from llin villag('. Nl\TO said the Hussians aeted prop­
"Kosovo Protection Force is unfortunately, in Jact recommending and helping realize proposals which lead to an illegal secession ofKosotJo. " 
Aleksandar Avdeyev deputy foreign Minister 

It was the deadliest inci­dent so far involving peacekeepers and Kosovo civilians. On .July 3. British paratroopers in Pristina fired on a car­load of ethnic Albanian revel­ers r.elehrating Kosovo's indc­p end enc e, killing two and 
orly undnr regulations allowing Llw 40,000 NATO-led peacekeep­ers to use deadly force to defond tlmms1ilvos. 
Ethnic Albanians say Hussian troops IHm~ favor lhe Serbs, rel­low Slavs wlrn share, the same Orthodox radilions. They say Hussian mnrccmirins fought with Serbs during tlrn 18-month t:rackdown against ethnic Albanians, during whir.Ii an esti­mated 10,000 people wore killed. 
Despite th11 allegations, U.S. and NATO commanders have said Moscow's troops have been evnnhanded since arriving in Kosovo on June 12 along with American and other NATO sol­diers to enforce a peace agrne­ment that ended the crackdown following the 78-day NATO wounding two others. The British said the ethnic Albanians were threatening Serbs in a building under British prote<;tlon. 
There was no comment from tho Yugoslav government on Monday's shooting deaths. 
During a Hussian delega­tion's visit to Belgrade, Avdeyev accused NATO of 
helping Kosovo  move  toward  
independence  from  
Yugoslavia.  

"While proclaiming to pre­serve the country's sovereign­ty. (NATO's) Kosovo Protection Force is unfortunately, with the aid of some Western coun­tries, in fact recommending and helping realize proposals which lead to an illegal seces­sion of Kosovo," Avdeyev said. 
ISRAEL 

Police arrest car bombing suspects 
Associated rrcss 

JERUSALEM 
Declaring that their common task is fighting terrorism, Israel and the Palflstinians expressed hope Monday that a pair of car bombings will not knock the newly revived peaco process off track. 
Police said five arrests were made in the Sunday bombings in the northern lsranli towns of Haifa and Tiberias. Authorities maintainAd a tight veil of secrecy over the identities of those taken into custody -as WAIi as those of the thrne slain men, apparently the bombers. 
A Tiberias court said police requested the gag order because they believed the investigation could uncover further, imminent attacks being planned. The court ordernd the men hflld another 11 days and said police were investigating whether Israeli Arabs were involved. 
In the Israeli Arab villages of Daburiya and Mashad, wakes were held for three men whom relatives said were the ones killed. Israeli security sources said DNA samples were taken from relatives of the three -a procedure that bas been used in the past to help identify the mangled, charred remains of suicide bombers. 
If the Daburiya men are the bombers, it would mark the second time in eight days that Israeli Arabs have bnen involved in terror attacks. Last we,ik, an Israeli Arab stabbed to death an Israeli couple. saying he wanted to kill .Jews. 
The two incidents have raised concern among Israeli .Jews who nervously watch for any signs that the coun­try's 1 million Arabs will turn against the state and come to identify with their Palestinian brethrnn in thn West Bank and Gaza Strip. 
Israeli Prime MinisttH Ehud Barak has said in the past he would halt the peace procoss in rnsponso to terror attacks. I.Jut was unlikely to do so over Sunday's twin bombings, No bystanders wnre killed, and if tho bombers were indeed lsnwli Arabs, Barak could not hold the Palestinian Authority resµonsiblo. 
"If indeed the investigation discovers that this timo the terrorists were locals, Israel will have to do what it so often preaches -improve its fight against terrorism," said a commentary in the liberal Haaretz daily. 
The bombs went off just hours after the festive sign­ing of a new West Bank land­for-security accord that also charts the course toward a permanent peace agremncnt by Septembor 2000. 

We're rooking for thinkers. Not just their diplomas. 
Andersen Consulting Career Night and Information Session-Wednesday, September 8, 6:30 p.m. -8:30 p.m, Center for Continuing Education, Lower Level. 
You know you're more than a piece of paper. You're change. After all, it takes powerful ideas to align strategy Visit our Web site at www.ac.com bursting with ideas and insights that can change the with people, process and technology. 
It's all about making an impact. 
world of business. And at Andersen Consulting, we We'll provide first-rate training and guidance, and want them. expose you to a variety of projects and industries. All of As a !eading g!oba! management and technology which builds a solid foundation for your future. 

Andersen 
consulting organization, we bring our insights and ideas Take this opportunity to talk to us about yourself, and 
•

Consulting
to world-class clients to help them achieve profound most importantly, your ideas. 
C>J999 Ander"'" Consulting. All rights remv,d. An ,qual opportunity employer. 
page 8 The Obsenier . NATIONAl NEWS Tuesday, September 7, 1999 
Hazardous materials still found on airlines 
Associated Press 

MIAMI 
Despite safety measures instituted by federal regulators following tht> Yalu.Jet crash three years ago, hazardous materials are still making their way on board the nation's air­liners. 
The fiery ValuJet crash that killed 1 (o people in the Everglades was blamed on oxygen generators carried in cargo. Now banned on passen­ger airlines, the explusive-trig­gere.d generators have flown or been intercepted at least 20 times since the crash. 
ThP Federal Aviation Administration came under attack in the Yalu.Jet investiga­tion for in-house problems .:ontrolling hazardous materi­als, hazmat for short, and some of the same prob­
"We believe the regulation 
lems pi>rsist. g o o d s 
T h e is now clear enough to and cargo agency's security,
enforce."
training and said that enforcement issue was in the field Rebecca Trexler resolved 
may not be as FAA spokeswoman on inspector in April strong as 1998 with
training requirement
Washington thinks they are, viola­tions routine­ly take two years to process, headline-grabbing proposed penalties often shrink to small­er fines, and airlines have been slow to install mandated fire gear on older aircraft. 
Since the ValuJet crash, the biggest change was a require­ment proposed by the FAA more than a year later to add fire detection and suppression equipment to old cargo holds 
by 2001. 

Forms filed by the industry show only 11 percent of the nation's fleet has been con­verted halfway to the deadline. 
On the plus side, a new force of 140 inspectors and lawyers work exclusively on hazmat enforcement, shippers are under scrutiny for the first time, and unprecedented crim­inal charges over the ValuJet crash riveted the industry in July. 
There is no way to guaran­tee hazmat never flies, but closer scrutiny of everything going onto planes and better training of people clearing packages to fly are reducing the risks. 

A major contributing factor in the ValuJet crash was the failure of ground crews with the discount carrier and a maintenance contractor to realize the improperly pack­aged g<'nerators could easily ignite. 
Like about 80 percent of the nation's airlines, ValuJet was what is known in the industry as a "will-not-carry"airlinc, which means it doesn't know­ingly accepi hazmat fur its flights. 
The crash disclosed vague wording in fAA rules about whether will-not-carry airlines were required to train workers to recognize hazmat. A report due within days from the inspector general's office of thP Transportation Department will address the will-not-carrv issue. 
Bill Wilkening. FAA manager 
of dan­
gerous 
written 
guidance 
from FAA 

lawyers and the security division to the work force. 
"It's not an open issue. We feel it's enforceable, Wilkening said. "Our agents have been provided guidance that will-not-carry carriers must have recognition train­ing." 
But as recently as last November, agency sources told The Associated Press that an FAA instructor told newly hired security inspectors that training may be required, but no enforcement action can be taken against violators. 
The interpretation offered in training "would be wrong,"said FAA spokes­woman Rebecca Trexler. "We believe the regulation is now clear enough to enforce." 
Overall, the amount of fines proposed by the FAA for haz­mat violations are up from $2.3 million in 1994 to $19.6 million in 1998. 
But there often is a gap of two years or more between a violation and the FAA's pro­posed penalty. And the fine amount tends to shrink. 
ROlfS SPORTS RECREATION CENTER DEPARTMENT Of ATHLETICS UNIVERSITY Of NOTRE DAME 
Rolfs Sports Recreation Center Drop~In Recreation Schedule 
In-Line Hockey  Sundays  8:30-10:30  
Floor Hockey  Mondays  8:30-10:30  
Indoor Soccer  Tuesdays  8:30-10:30  
Volleyball  Wednesdays  7:00-10:00  
Lacrosse  Thursdays  8:30-10:30  
Badminton  Fridays  7:00-10:00  
Badminton  Saturdays  9:00-lL00  

Come by Yourself, or Bring a Friend! 
All times are PM. Schedule is in effect only when classes are in session. 
Bush's float wins parade contest 
• Republicans speak at various holiday affairs 
Associated Press 

MILFORD, N.H. 
Texas Gov. George W. Bush 
on Monday won the best float 
award in a Labor Day parade 
he didn't attend. 

Gary Bauer, Elizabeth Dole, 
Steve Forbes and Dan Quayle 
did attend. They shook hands 
with parents toting cameras 
and tossed candy to scurrying 
children. 

Bush, who arrived in 
Manchester late Monday 
afternoon, had a look-a-like 
on his t1oat, which also fea­
tured a look-a-like Theodore 
Roosevelt and photos of every 
Republican president this 
century. 

"The judging had nothing to ·cto with popularity, but I would say Bush is very popu­lar hMe in Milford," said Robert Philbrick, Labor Day parade organizer for the past 
35 years. 

Forbes spoke at a Veterans of Foreign Wars hall, decry­ing a "hollowing out" of the military. 
He said it is wrong for the government to put Americans in uniform while not spending enough on defense to protect America want to just coronate someone," he said. 
Quayle acknowledged he has serious obstacles in the campaign -mainly, raising money. 
"Money is a factor," he said. "I've been outspent in elec­tions before and won, but I've 
them. "They've 

''The judging had nothing
reduced our ·Army's to do with popularity, but 
strength by 

I would say Bush is very
50 percent; 

popular here in Milford. " 
our Air Force, 50 percent; the 

Robert Philbrick 
Navy, almost 

labor Day parade organizer
40 percent," Forbes said. "This is not a 

never been outspent 10-or 20­
to-1." 

G a r y Bauer, who finished a three-day visit to N e w Hampshire 
o n Monday, 
?10ney, issue or_ a m!,litary issue. Its a moral issue. 
At a picnic in Salem. Dole said she wants to put the !HS on a short leash. 
Meanwhile, Quayle echoed the attacks on Bush that he and other Republicans have made throughout the cam­paign. "l don't believe the peo­ple of New Hampshire or 
said his campaign received its 
90,000th donation during the 
trip. That's more contribu­tions than Forbes' 40,000­. plus or Arizona Sen. John 
McCain's 35,000 

McCain spokesman Itoward 
Opinsky said what matters 
isn't how many people donate 
to the campaign, but how 
much they give. 

Fall Break Setninars 
October 17-22, 1999 Experiential/Service Learning 
Center for Social Concerns 
APPALACHIA SEMINAR 
Service Learning at one of 15 sites in the Appalachian region 
One credit Theology 


CULTURAL DNERSITY SEMINAR Explore the cultural richness of Chicago 0 Examine issues of diversity and related concerns One-credit Theology or Sociology Cosponsored with Multicultural Student Affairs WASHINGTON SEMINAR Theme: Jubilee Justice 2000-> Direct contact with political, agency, and Church leaders in ,,Vashington, D.C. Service and political awareness opportunities One-credit Theology or Government CHILDREN & POVERTY SEMINAR ~ -New seminar examining key children's concerns Focus on direct service and policy initiatives Site: Boston or New York One-credit Theology or Psychology  
Applications Available Now at the CSC C£NT£R FOR SOCIALApplications Due: Thursday, Sept. 9, 1999 CONCERNS  

li1esday, September 7, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Cisneros will attempt to destroy credibility of ex-lover 
Linda .Jonns -while under wagr,d an all-out assault on quashtheir use, saying many on the tapes is not his, nor that 
Asso~ia1cd Press 
considnration for a post in tho Jones' credibility during a pre­tapes bore signs of heavy edit­thestutements attributed to him Clinton Cabinet -to conceal trial hearing. They elicited ing. are inaccurate," Sporkin said of W/\SIIIN<;TON tlrn scope of his more than admissions that sho lied numer­"Tapes, as we all know, are the tapes, recorded between In a tri,tl with taµus, motrny $250,000 in payments to her. oustirnes to the FBI and very powerful evidence," April 1990 and December 1993. und an tixtramarital affair, f'or­I le has pieaded innocent. Internal Hevenue Service Cisneros lawyer Brendan Whiln the recordings' aclmis• rn nr llousing Secretary and .Jonns, who ran afoul of the agents investigating Cisneros, Sullivansaid al the conclusion sibility at trial constituted a vic­111111-tinw rising politit:al star independent counsel prosecut• as well as lo theindependent of the hearing. "Tapes that are tory for Barrett's team, a for­ll••nry Cisneros will try to ing Cisneros, is the govern• counsel's office, a Texas court altered are powerfully mislead­merfederal prosecutor cau­
dPn10lish Urn proS<\CUlion 's case nwnt's star witness, albeit one and even her own lawyers. ii1g." tioned that tapes can some­
by attacking tlw crndibility ol' whose credibility will come Eighty-eight tape recordings U.S. District Judge Stanley times backfire on the prosr.cu•tlw koy witnnss against him -under sustain11d au.ackfrom that .Jones secretly made of lrnr Sporkin rejected the defense's lion. his ('x-lovnr. Cisneros' high-dollar legal phone conv1,rsations with argument. Of the 26 tapes that­"Any time a prosecutor gets
.Jury snlllction begins team. She agrnt>d to testify Cisnt>ros as their relationship prosecutors want to play for ,~viden(·.e that's admissible, it's T11nsday, morn than a ynar and against her ex-lovnr in a bid soured are at the heart of' jurors, Sporkin is allowing 22 in helpful," said Washington a half' aftPr CisnPros was togain a rnduction in her :i 1/2-Independent Counsel David their entirety and portions lawyer Joseph diGenova, him­rhargcd in an 18-cuunt indict• ynar prison sentence. Barrett'scase. Cisneros' lawyers offour others. self' a former independont t11Pt1l that contnnds Im con• In a prnview of their likely labored mightily during a 13-Cisneros "has presented no counsel and one-time U.S. ~pin\d with 0111·-limn paramour trial tactics, Cis1rnros'· lawyers day pretrial hearing in .July to direct evidence that the voice attorney. 
Metzenbaum: Author should die 
W/\SIIIN{;TON 

lloward l\fotzPnhaum, a fpro­1'.ious lilwrnl in his days in Urn s,,naw, has rnacwd to a 1ww book hy trying lo banish it from tlH' U.S. 1narkntplucn. /\nd its author. lw says, dPs1irvns tlw dPath 1w11alty. · 
Without nvPn rnading Urn book, l\fot;wnb,turn took tlrn unl'orgiving position against tlm lllf'lllOir OJ' Ahu Daoud. 
sue his drnam of' being an Olympian. 
Borgnr grew up three doors away from Metzunbaum, who wa.'i with tlrn athletn's parnnl'i as they watched the horror unfold on ldevision. 
Despite his reputation as a civil libHrtarian, Metzenbaum can't see giving First Amendment pro­tnclion to Abu Daoud. 
"l sure don't want him to profit by moans of this evil and killing 
of people," said 
Metzenbaurn. 
"lie ought to

"/ sure don't want him to
a pla111wr ol' be incarcerat­tl11' dPadly profit by means ofthis evil nd. lie actuallykidnapping 
and killing <~{people." ought to pay
111' athlntiis 
with his own al tlu• I1J72 
lifo, al'ttir being

Olympics in Howard Metzenbaum 
tried by a juryM LI 11 i (' h. former Senator or a court." 
Abu llaoud, 
whos•• rnal IHllllP is Mohammnd Oud1.J1. was a l'alPsti,w l.ihPralion Organization lcadnr whos•• Hlack S1•ptPmlwr gunrril­las took lsraPli wnightlil'tnrs hostagP. Two athletPS WPl"P killPd during tlw assault. Nirw oth1•rs di1•cl wht'll (;nrman polirP bunglPd a rnsrue allPmpt. !\ (;pr111an poli('.('llHLll and l'iv•' l<'rrorists also W(\l"P kilh•d. 
:\111 ong t hP d•~ad: David BPrgPr. a weightlil'tf'I' l'rom tlw Cl f' VI' la II d s LI Ii LI r b (I r s Ii a k (~ r ll•'ights with dual rilizi•nship who had mowd lo lsnll'I to pur­
/\bu Daoud's 
memoir, 
"Pa1estine: 

F r o m .lr.rusalem to Munich," was pub­lislwd narlier this year in France, n~1wwing the lrnartbn1ak of a family that has benn grieving sine<\ SPptembnr 1972. 
"I just couldn't bdiev•i he was frnii all thosc yPars," Dorothy Bnrgcr. the mother of' David, said from lwr Clevflland home. "It is so unf'air to nm. 
"Wn'w lived with this f'or 27 years." slrn said. The company that bought Lim 
U.S. publication rights and is now having the 600-page book translated has amassed a file about 2 inches thick full of protest letters, mostly from Ohio. 
"We have decided not to respond to these, including phone calls which are quite dis­ruptive -screaming," said Arcade's president and publish­er, Richard Seaver. 
"It's a book that we took in with a lot of thoughtfulness," he said. "We're doing it because it's a very strong book showing the other side of a story we've only published one side of." 
Seaver described the Munich chapter of the book as an explanation, not a boast. "Believe me, he's so contrito about that," the publisher said. 
When the book came out in France, The Associated Press described its account of Munich as a plan to use Israeli athletes as negotiating chips, with tho deaths blamed on Germans who betrayed a pledge to let the Palestinians leave. 

Homeless deaths baffle authorites 
As,odated Pren 
RAPID CITY, S.D. 
When the first few bodies turned up in the gurgling trout stream that runs through a park in this city on the edge of the Black Hills, the deaths drew little attention. 
Police investigated, but all the evidence indicated that the homeless men had spent their days and nights drinking along Rapid Creek and simply passed out and drowned. 
As more men died, how­ever, law officers became suspicious. The deaths now total eight in 16 months, three this year. In typical years, only about one homeless person turns up drowned along the creek. 

"There's just too many of' them to say it's coinci­dence. But it could be," Police Chief Tom Ilennies says. 
Authorities have no wit­nesses who saw any of them go into thn creek. There are no bullet holes, stab wounds or evidence of other injuries. Police don't know where most of the men ontered the stream. 
What investigators know is that six of tho eight were Indians, and all hut one had been drinking heavily just before they died. Most had blood alcohol levels of at least 0.25 perc1rnt, or more than 2 l/2 limns the 0.1 percent level at which dri­vers are presumed to be drunk. 

Graduating college seniors are invited to apply for the 27th annual Pulliam Journalism Fellowships. We will grant 10-week summer internships to 20 journalism or liberal arts majors in the August 1999-June 2000 graduating 
classes. 

Previous internship or part-,time experience at a newspaper is desired, or other demonstration of writing and reporting ability. Those who go through the Fellowships often find new professional opportunities opening up at other newspapers during and after the program. Winners will receive a $5,500 . stipend and will work at either The Indianapolis Star or The An~ona Rep~hhc. Opportunities for online training are available, along with reportmg experience at our major metropolitan daily newspapers. 
Early-admissions application postmark deadline is N~v. 15, I9~?· By 
Dec. 15, 1999, up to five early-admissions winners will be notified. All 
other entries must be postmarked by March 1, 2000, and will be consid­
ered with remaining early-admissions applicants. Successful applicants 
will be notified on or before April 1, 2000, and will be asked to ri;!spond 
immediately with a letter of intent, at which time one-third of the cash 
grant will be mailed to the Fellow. 
To request an application packet, visit our Web site, e-mail us or write: Russell B. Pulliam Pulliam Fellowships Director Indianapolis Newspapers W~b ~itc: \\ 1\ 1,1,,,rarne\, ,.,·om/rJf P.O. Box 145 E-m.,il: pullwm@.',tarm:w, cnm Indianapolis, IN 46206-0145 

Did you know? 
There is a group on campus to help students facing disciplinary hearings before the Office of Residence Life. Peer advocates are specially trained to guide students through the disciplinary process. They comprise a division of Judicial Council, a Student Government organization, and are not part of Residence Life. 
Judicial Council is recruiting sophomores, juniors and seniors for a limited number of openings in the Peer Advocacy division. Applications are now available in the Student Government office on the second floor of Lafortune, and are due by Wednesday, September 15. 
Questions? Call Kelly Folks at 1-4556 
page JO The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, September 7, 1999 
Campus Ministry This Week 

OFFICE OF CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 lksburgh Library 631-7800 112 Badin Hall 631-5242 Basilica Offices 631-8463 Web Page: http://www.nd.edu/~ministry 
Continuing through September 20, 103 Hesburgh Library, 112 Badin Hall 
Freshman Retreat #24 (Sept. 24-25) Sign-Up 
Targeted Dorms: Badin, Keenan, Lewis, O'Neill Family, Pasquerilla East, St. Edwards, Morrissey, Walsh, and Zahm 
Tuesday, September 7, Siegfried Hall 
Confirmation Information Sessions 
7:00 pm, Candidates -8:00 pm, Sponsors 
Tuesday, September 7, 7:00 pm, Badin Hall Chapel 
Campus Bible Study 
Tuesday, September 7, 10:00 pm, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Eucharistic Ministry Workshop (also September 12, 2:30 pm) 
Wednesday, September 8, 10:00-10:30 pm, Walsh Hall Chapel 
Interdenominational Christian Night Prayer 
A spirit-filled, student-led power half hour of prayer and music for students of all Christian faith traditions. 
Wednesday, September 8, 7:00-8:00 pm, Reeker's Hospitality Room 
Africentric Spirituality: Freshman Intro First Year Partner Reception 
Wednesday, September 8, I 0:00 pm, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Lector Workshop (also September 12, 8:00 pm) 
Thursday, September 9, 7 :00 pm Eck Center Auditorium 
Sankofa Scholars Honors Assembly and Reception 
Friday-Saturday, September 10-11, Angela House, Michigan City 
Manantial Mentor Retreat 
Friday-Saturday, September 10-11, Bair Lake in Michigan 
Liturgical Choir Retreat 
Sunday, September 12, 4:00 pm, Sorin Hall Chapel 
Rejoice! Black Catholic Mass 
Sunday, September 12, 6:00 pm, Morris Inn. 
Dinner for Alianza Officers 
Sunday, September 12, 1:00 pm, Notre Daine Room -LaFortune 
RCIA-Information Session for Candidates 
li1esday, Seprernht·r 7, 1999 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 11 
HAITI 
Gun01an wounded in assassination attempt 
Associlltcd J>ress 
POHT-t\U-l'HINCE 

I\ gunman op,irwd fire on a llaitian political party !ead11r in what tlw p(llilician said Monday was an atlnmpt to assassinat!' him. 
SallVl'Ur l'inrrn Uicnirn. sncrc­tnry of llw Struggling l'Poplp's Organization, said a man sl1•pp1·d onto th,~ road as Etit•nrn• wm, driving away from I.Im Port­uu-l'ri1H11• airµort with his ramily Sunday aftPrnoon. The gunman airnnd a pistol at EliPlllW from nhotll. ll f1Hil llnd finid, hitting tlw hoocl of Urn car, Elfonrw said 
Elin111w was arnwd and l'irnd b1u·k. wounding 1l11~ man "in lhe lownr part of his body.'' lw said. Tilt• gu111na11 tlwn lfod with anotlwr man who was standing by tlw side ol' I.ill' road. 
"This is tlw last in u long sPrit!S of' altPmpts lo inlimidal.l' 
our party," Etienne said, cal!ing the gunman "a professional hit­n1an.0 
The shooting occurred one day aflor a grnnadc exploded in front or llaili's Chamber of Commerc(' hoadquartors, damaging tho huilding's facade but rausing no injuries. 
Cunnrnn havP rircd weapons sPveral times in l'ront of the house of Sen. Yrvclt Clwry, a mcmbor of the Struggling 1'1•ople's Organization. And in March, party m1Hnbor Sen. Jean Yvon-Toussaint was killP-d in front of his house. 
Tile Struggiing People's Organization lrnld a majority in Parliament until President Ilene Prov,d dissolved the body in Janmtrv. 
Seve1~al of the party's lawmak· Prs (fod I laiti at the nnd or April f'o!lowing dnath tbrnats and a shooting atlack on tlrn home of one of'tlwm. 
Ki Aikido 
Wednesdays -7:30-9:00 Beginning September 15 
Demonstration 
September 8 • 7: 30pm Rockne 219 
Register in Advance at RecSports Closs Fee is $19 Call 1-6100 for More Information 
R~~ 
FREE FOOD! 
How To PLAN A PARTY 
Dorm social commissioners, club officers and social chairs .... Ifyou plan on serving food at anyofyour events (formals, semi-formals, dances, SYR's, club dinners, cookouts, etc.), you need to be certified in food service certification. Don't 
miss the fall training session! Food will be served. 
Tomorrow, Wednesday, Sept. 8 
5:00 PM MONTGOMERY THEATER 
~ 
"vg, 
FOR MORE INFO CALL 631-7309, OR VISIT www.1ul.edu/,....,sao/ 
UNITED KINGDOM 

Mitchell struggles for accord 
A.<socia1ed Press 

BELFAST, Northern lrnland 
Cautioning that he had no "magic wanrl," the American architect of last year's Northern Ireland peace accord launched a diplomatic mission Monday to salvage the unraveling agreement. 
Former U.S. Sen. George Mitchell, who met delegations from Northern Ireland's four major parties, said the province's rival British Protestant and Irish Catholic political leaders "must seize this opportunity" or condemn their land to perp,~tual insta­bility. 
Mitchell oversaw 22 months of often agonizing negotia­tions that produced the Good Fridav accord of 1998. At its heart'. the agreement called for the speedy est0;blishment of' a !'our-party Cabinet com­posed equally of Protestants and Catholics. 
But the main Protestant party, the Ulster Unionists, has refused to accept mem­bers of the IRA-linked Sinn Fein as government col­leagues until the Irish Republican Army agrees to disarm. The accord specified disarmament should b•1 com­pleted by next May, but the !KA has rnfused to start. 
Mitchell said ho hoped to se!l a compromise formula within weeks that would allow the Cabinet to be formed and the IHA -as well as other outlawed groups with too little support to factor in the Cabinet's make-up -to start destroying its tons of hidden weaponry. 
Mitche!! emphasized he had no ''magic wand that will wave away these problems" and that the n~al power rest­ed with those who would form the 12-membcr Cabinet: the Ulster Unionists, Sinn Pein, the moderate Catholics of the Social Democratic and Labor Party, and the hard-linn Protestants of the Dnmocratic Unionists. 
"Each of them sought public office and the power that comes with it. With that power comes responsibility," Mitchell said. "At this time and placo, that means having the courage and wisdom to find a way to overcome tlrn obstacles to implementation of the agreement." 
The Democratic Unionists, entitled to two Cabinet posls like Sinn Fein, totally rojP-ct the accord. The party's leader, the Hov. Jan. Paisley, met Mitchell but said after­ward he would shun Mitchell's (ifforts "to givo thn kiss of life to this wretchnd and dirty deal." 
An opinion poll published Monday in tlw Bolfasl Telegraph nnwspap11r sug­gested that majoritios of Protestants and Catholics alike would support a com­promise. 
MEXICO 

Resort towns brace for storm 
San Lucas, a town on tlrn San Lucas and San Josn dnl 
Associa1ed Press 

southernmost tip of the Baja Caho closed to all traffic, California peninsula that is port captain Andrns Alberto \1EXICO CITY popular with American Ordaz told the govnrnme11t
l\lotorists lined up half a sports fishermen. news agency Notimex. mile outside gas stations, At 5 p.m. EDT, the center The lines outside gas sta­
and residents and tourists of the hurricane was 145 tions stretched up to half a packed supermarkets in. the miles southeast of Caho San mile, and supormarketsMexican resort town of Caho Lucas and drifting north­were filled with both rosi­
San Lucas on Monday as west. Forecasters expected dents and tourists stocking 
Tropical Storm Greg it to pick up speed later up on emergency supplios, became llurricane Greg and Monday. Tropical storm Notimex said. clnscd in on land. winds extended 115 milos Municipal authorities 
Greg's winds strengthened from the center. declared a rnd alert, nwan­
Monday to 75 mph over the Authoritios declared a ing all emergency worknrs Pacific Ocean, and the cen­hurricane watch for tlrn were on call, said city offi­ter of the storm was project­southern part of the penin­cial t\ntonio t\lvarnz 
ed to pass just west of Cabo sula, and the ports of Caho Acevedo. 

AllSocial Commissioners, Hall Presidents, Club Officers, Advisors, Social Chairs, Concession Stand Coordinators and anyone interested in registering to win over $200 in prizes are encouraged to attend VENDOR FAIR! 

WJN A FREE DJ FOR YOUR EVENT! SAMPLE FREE FOOD! 


MEET 15 OF THE AREA'S STUDENT-FOCUSED BUSINESSES! 
TOMORROW! 6 PM -8 PM LAFORTUNE BALLROOM 
Bytheway, have you been trained in safe food handling procedures? Ifyou plan on sponsoring events with food being served, you need to attend 
HOW TO PLAN A PARTY (Food Service Certification Training) 
5:00 PM -6:00 PM MONTGOMERY THEATER 

VIEWPOINT 
page 12 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. IN 4G556 ll24 $ourh D111ing Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46SS6 
EDITOR IN CHILF Michelle Krupa 
MANAGING fDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGiiR  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogero  
~T. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Pccelle  

NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan Vn,wrorNT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen SroRTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler 
SCENE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalum 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Bryan Lutz 
AD 0f'5IGN MANAGER: Bm Hudat SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers WEIi ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushco 
CONTROLLER: Timochy Lane GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 
CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO.............631-7471 l'Ax ........................................... : ................. 631-6927 ADVERTISING.....................................63 l-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AsST. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................63!-5313 NEWS.......................................................... 631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT.. ...............................................63 l-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS......................................................63 l-4543 observer.spom. l@nd.edu SCENE....................................................., ... 631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SA.INT MARY'S .............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOTO...... ....................................631-8767 SYSTE.MSfWEB ADM!NlSTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site ac !mp:!!ob,erver.nd.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, feamres and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associared Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 

movies/mu1ic for 
minute forecascs 

weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 

online features for spe­
and races ofprim ads 

cial campus coverage 
I archives to search for 

about The Observer 
l articles published after 

to meet the editors and 
f August 1999 

sraff 
POLICIES 

The Observer is che independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudenrs ofthe Universiiy ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Ma,:y•s College. Editorial content is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither instirution. Acting as pub­lisher ofThe Observer, the administration ofthe Universiiy ofNocre Dame du Lac prohibits the adver­tisemenc ofalcohol and The Observer's acceptance of advertisements from specified types ofgroups. 
The news is reporred as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of che majority ofche Edicor in Chief, Managing Edicor. Assistant Managing Editor and department ed,tors. Commentaries. letters and columns present the views of the aurhors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is ,nrnuraged 
Qumions regarding Observer policies should be direct­ed to &litor in ChiefMichelle Krupa 
DILBERT 

1N TI-\I~ WEEK'S "'WALL'< R~PORT/' 1'\J£ OE.CI.OED TO 
Lt.T MY HAIR GROW 
LONG !N \HE 
13ACK. 
O
THE 

BSERVER Tuesday, September 7, 1999 
Help to Make the Future Better 
A friend from home became preg­nant her freshman year of college. She didn't want to have a baby. It may have been the worst possible thing to happen to her. She started to 
Mario Suarez 
starve herself and drank. She told me how she would throw herself on 
Right to Life
the ground and try to do violent things to hurt her baby. Her mom scheduled an abortion for her. She miscarried the day before her appointment. She told me that she feels like she killed her child. She's still in therapy today. 
A friend's mom from home had two abortions. Her husband had left her and she had a problem with drinking. My friend would tell me how she'd have to comfort her mom at night. She would wake up crying. She had dreams of her children. They aged in the dreams. She had given them names. She has to see a therapist too. 
A friend of the family had an abor­tion many years ago. She was happy with three children. It almost killed her. She had to lose her reproductive organs, She's out of therapy now, but the physical effects are lasting. 
Two years ago, a college student in my home state had a baby. She hadn't told anyone she was pregnant, and what college student is ready to be a mom? She and her boyfriend stran­gled the baby. They were charged with second degree murder. I heard someone say that the charge should have been practicing medicine with­out a license. They weren't kidding. 
I have, frequently, gotten the notion that people in the Right to Life move­ment are perceived as insensitive people. Or that we want to force our morality upon others without any consideration of how it may affect their life. I do not feel this is accurate. For one, abortion is as much an issue of morality as any sort of freedom. Abortion is the removal of the status of "person" from the unborn, and. in the case of partial birth abortions, even the partially unborn. 
Removing "person" status is not a new concept. It was the basis of slav­ery. They weren't persons, but prop­erty. Just this century, can anyone remember the exploits of Hitler? He sought to remove the weak, the poor, the handicapped, the unproductive from society along with the Jews, Blacks, and religious. We now do so with ones likely to be poor, handi­capped, or weak, but before they are born. We look back now and ask, "How could such things happen?," but, we only need to look around today. 
Women are being exploited by abor­tion. In the stories I have mentioned, you can see situations where society would have frowned upon someone for having a baby. Political and social leaders have an interest in keeping people from increasing the population in poverty stricken areas. There is often an intent of preventing suffering by ending the potential to suffer. but. at the same time, the·potential to live is lost. In addition, in most cases, abortion leaves at least one dead, and one wounded. 

1-ior these reasons, I find myself compelled to try to be an active mem­ber in the Right to Life movement. l am not an eloquent writer. a greater thinker, or an extreme sort of guy. I just du not want to be a part of a time like this, where a viable option is to end the life of one's child. I do not want be a part of the suffering that abortion has caused, but I am. 
The ND RTL club wants to help fight abortion, but not through standing on a soap box and drmouncing all non pro-life heathens to hell. We realize and try to compre­hend the immense suf­fering and difficulties that may be and are suffered by moth­ers. Because of this, club activi­ties are devel­oped around prayer, service, and education. The circum­stances around abor­tion are often what is so hard. No one should turn to abortion because they believe it is their only choice. 
Last year, we had Olivia Gans come in and speak on post-abortion syn­drome. Dr. Joel Brind Burlingham Brown, who does crisis pregnancy and adoption work for St. Joseph County Catholic Charities. 
On our wish-list of things to do, we would like to be doing some sort of babysitting for the Center for the Homeless and for students with chil­dren, but both would require admin­istrative approval and, more impor­tantly, bodies. 
ND RTL also has many other pro-life service opportunities, from visit­ing to St. Joseph County hospice, to visiting prisons, and participating in the Logan Center dance. There are educational opportunities in the annual March for Lil'e, debate work­shops. Cemetery of' the lnnoccmts. and the Evangelium Vitae study group. In addition, many prayer ventures are sponsored by ND RTL, such as rosary, Stations of the Cross, Litany for Lifo. and Mass. 
But to do all these things, commit­ment is needed. It is easy to get caught up in being a student, a parent, or a prof'ession­al. But every day 4,400 
unborn babies do die, many of their moth­.ers become scarred. 
People will look back and ask how could we let this happen. Do 
· something to be a part of what changes this. 
Another friend from home is having her first child in .January. 
She alrrmdy has her first l'amily video of her new baby. Slw knows 
that it's a baby girl, and saw her heart beating. There's even a part where it looks likr1 she's sucking her 6~ thumb. 

discussed abortion and ~~,~~l~ Tomorrow, she could walk 
breast cancer. This year, con-K~ tinuing past services. we will send volunteers to the Women's Care Center, a crisis pregnancy center, and donate money to support their clients. We will have a baby shower for a teen mother at Hannah's House in Mishawaka. home to pregnant teens/new mothers. 
This year, we wanted to expand our club activities. The Feminists for Life Pregnancy Resources Forum, this month. will explore university policies on pregnant students and look into what help exists for students who are pregnant. A couple of excellent speak­ers will be coming. There is Dawn Kober, who attended a pro-choice march and then learned her parents tried to abort her, and Barbara 
into a clinic and have a "doctor" "terminate" her pregnancy. Maybe her tiance broke up with her. Maybe she lost her job or is scared she may. She might have just decided she's not ready for her life to change. Let us make sure that she always has some­one to turn to, some other avenue. The baby will still have little fingers and little toes. And yes, the baby might have some bad habits, but if we allow her, she. might grow out of them. 
Mario Suarez is a senior Computer Science and Government major and a member of Right to Life. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily lhose of The Ohseruer. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
! COLLE.CT
EVENTUA.Ll~, !'LL 
WHAT'S 
~UT IT 1.N A. 

COfH.E
'<OUR 

l"\UC",5.
PON't'TAtl TO SHOW A.RTt5TIC 
I HAVE AN ARTI5'UC 
SIDE.'? 

"It takes two to speak the truth -one to
'o!OL 

speak, and another to hear·· 
Henry David Thoreau 

www. Sil '• 4 4Q!_zcc C 4&0 .W <-EE WC u sccqsc_ a . -c-• =---cc::s z:.::::...saac:..::: a me: a 
VIEWPOINT 
O
fHE 

·1i11:\Jay, Sepcembc.:r 7. 1999 BSERVER page 13 

'Liberalism' Is a Necessity on Campus 
It's possihlP lo both halt! and love this sl'hool. This column is cJ,,dicatcd lo nvcryonc who has ll'i'l or wantPd lo lcavn Notrn Danw hPcausP it was suffocating him or lwr. IP111wllP \Villiams was in PSA last ynar. lovPd Nil. sulTm·atPd lwrn. but is 110w al llw Uniwrsity DI' 
Aaron Kreider 
North Carolina at Cha1;.,1 
Ifill and l't•Pling l'rnP. This 
plan• can kill 1wopl,• (LP. Progressive tlwrn was a gay studPnt Student 
who commitlt•d suicidl' Alliance d1w lo tlw homophobic dimatn,. 
llut lets talk about Jov11. Whal am progrns­sivP, lihmal or simply 1H111-r.onscrvativc stu­dPnts to do if they love Notre Dame'? What about Ll111s1! of us progressivPs who love the C:hurrh? 111'!"1' an• sonrn humbln idnas for a raclical ag1•nda and a just f'uturn. 
I'm :\fonnonilt•. 110! Catholic. but it's tlrn sa1111• (;od. /\l'rnrding lo many Llwologians Cod is 011 tlw side of' tlw poor and oppress11cl. You can n~acl it in tht> l«mchings or llrn Old TPslanwnl proplwts or thosn nl' .lnsus. Or you ,:an simply fopJ il in your lwarl. IL makes Sl'llSP that ii' Cod is lovci. limn God would not sta11d f'or !ht• injustic1~s of' our world. 
IlowPvPr. too many theologians and priests J'all short in tlwir stancn. Many will nmpha­siZI' the 'prPfPrnncci for thr poor' and ignorn tlw otlwr forms of oppression. Simply puL. I doubt llrn 'lovp' in the faith or anymrn who says Cod cams about the poor but doesn't givl' squat for wnnwn. people of cnlor, or q1wnrs. llow could God's love bti conditional'? In a ;\fonnonitc class I lnarnml that tlw Bible says nothing about loving committnd samc­s11x rnlationships. /\f'tnr struggling with tlrn iss11P, I cannot s11n why (;od would stand in the w11y 111' two people in love. Mennonites arc as homophobic as Cutholics, hut my profnssor and many othrrs saw the possibility f'or a God ol' lovn. From what l'vn rt•ad. experiencml and 1'1•lt ct,•1>p in my soul I bP!ieve thnt c;od is on tlw sid1i of' women's slruggles. queer lihera­tion and racial and economic equality. !low ahout a Uwology of li!Jl'ration that includes nv1•rvonP'! 
Wlim1 l_pirturc• c;od. I drt\,un about. a radical shill in our individual and world priorities that will servn as a tai;te ol'Cod'sjusticn and kingdom to conw. l'vn cxpnric•nced Cod sit­ting-in al L,1 Mans clapping with drums pounding as WI\ ask,!d WIIY didn't l'rnsidnnt l:ldr<1d n1e~ognize tlw flnsbian-straight] i\lliancn'! l'vo s1wn God on tho strnels or VancouvPr in llw torclws p«!opln carri1icl tlP111a1Hling fnwdom for dnath-row prisoner Mumi11 Ahu-.lamal. Cod crm;sHd thn line with thousands of pnopk as we tried lo shut down thn School ot' Anrnrkas. 
Everyorw at Notre Dame who cares about social juslice needs to recognize the ties that conneel all !'orms of activism. None of us will be free until we'rn all frne. We need to give of ourselves. Suppurt as many progressive caus­es and groups that you can. Show solidarity and do everything out or love. 
Many peopln on campus might think that the Progressive Student Alliance (PSA) is a gay rights group. It's true, but we're so much more. We obviously have made many mis­takes and wn could really use another dozen committed members because we're over­worked like you wouldn't believe. We're a quner rights group because there are gay, lesbian and bisnxual students who are persn­cuted on campus and an administration that is sinning by discriminating. PSA is a peace group. we organized against the U.S. bombing or Iraq. Wr'rn pro-labor and are calling for an end to the production of ND apparel in swnatshops. 
/\II too often I've seen progressives whp work on only one issue and narrowly define their activism. Perhaps most ND students don't undnrstand PSA because we're differ­f1nt. Maybe it seems like PSA is always switching issuns and just working on whichever onr, can cause the most trouble. But you'll see things differently if you realize t.hal our vision ofjustice is all comprehensive. If we had the rnsources to tackle the entire puzzln, we'd do it. 
It's not easy being a progressive activist at Notre Dame. We get citations from security, our clubs put on probation, our rallies bannod. we face anonymous harassment (voice mail, graffiti, etc.), are ridiculed weekly in The Observer for daring to question authority, and we'rn oftnn lonely. Rut we're still at it. We love this place, know it r.an change, and we want it to be a reflcr.tion of God's justice. 
As Mario Savio speaking to thousands of students during the 1964 Free Speech l\lovcmcnl at UC lforkeley once exclaimed. "There's a limn when the operation of the machine becomes so odious, makes you so sir.k at hoart, that you can't take part; you can't even tacitly take part. And you've got lo put your bodies upon the gears and upon the wheels, upon all tlrn apparatus and you've got to make it stop. And you've got to indicate to the people who run it, to the people who own it that nnloss vou'rc free, the machine will be p~cventod fro1-i1 working at all." 
Aaron Kreider is a graduate student and a member oflhe Progressive Student 11lliancc. 
The views expres:wd in this column are £hose oflhe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Face reality ND 
Brian Kessler, you're a big rat baby! I woulcJ expect the Sports Editor to offnr sonrn game analysis, but instead you p1rnnecl a nice little dia­tribe against the officials! Grow up and talk football. 
You're viewing the world through green-tinted glas:rns. Close calls broke both ways, and ND has no-one to blame but themselves for tho cclc­
bration and li1ln hit calls. Truth hurls: ND came close this timr, but they'd lrnltnr bring a 11awlcss game ii' they· want lo b1iat Michigan in tlw Big !louse. 
John Stanley Washingcon. D,C. September <>, 19'/9 

Taking away the helping hand 
It has come to our attnntion that St. .Joseph's llospital. owned by the Sisters of the Holy Cross. has plans to movr, from Central South Bend to Granger, Indiana. thnreby depriving the area or a neces­sary institution l'or the well­being of its citizens. As engaged membnrs or this community, not in the least way as students at a univnrsi­ty run by the same Catholic order as the hospital, we have just cause to be con­cerned with this plan and its implications for our neigh­bors. Why is the hospital abandoning an area of great need(the depressed central city)for the greatn comfort offered in Granger'? The abandonment of the city's poor by this Catholic hospital implies a serious flaw in its understanding of' lhe social justice imperatives so beauti­fully and so often prodaimed by the Congrngation of' tlrn lloly Cross and the University. We implorn tho Sisters to disclose their plans for the hospital and the process and factors ·that led to this decision. It is lime for this issue lo be brought into the open, so thal the commu­nities directly affected can have a chance to voice their opinions before the opportu­nity vanishes. 
Tom Ogorzalek Paul Ranogajec 
Junior. Siegfried I !all Sophomore. Morrissey Hall 

Losing may have been best for the Irish 
Saturday was a tough day to be an Irish fan, as the Domers were downed 26-22 by the hated Michigan Wolverines. And although it was painful for me to watch as the final sec­onds ticked away, I'm almost a little glad that Michigan won. 
Before you think I've gone nutty, let me explain. Had the Irish won, it almost goes with· out saying that their momen­tum would have propelled them to an undefeated season and a national title, following' the eleven-year patterns in 1966, '77. and '88. But a r.acophonous echo would havn bnen heard from the direction of'Ann Arbor: thousands and thousands of Michigan fans whining that it was unfair and 
-______________________________________ 
dirty that Notre Dame had an exlrn game the week before. In !'act. on ESPN's "Collegt! Ganw Day" show, which was broad­cast live from Ann Arbor. an unidentified Michigan fan held up a sign which read "Notrn Dame: The DIHTIEST school in college football". 
I personally hopn that that particular fan is studying lo be a proctologist, because if I ever nrnnt him, I'll give you throe guesses as to what I'll do with that sign. 
Mike Marchand 
Junior, oll~campus 
September<,, 1999 

J 

O
THE 

page 14 BSERVER Tuesday, September 7, I 999 
CONCERT PREVIEW 
Notre Dame concert series begins 
. The Lydian string quartet to perform at Washington Hall 
Special to The Observer 

Since its formation in 1980, the Lydian string quartct has inspired critical acclaim worldwide. 
Tim quar­tet's inter­pretive mas­The Lyndian 
tery of such string quartet traditional 
• What: Music Concert
repertoire as Hayden, . Where: Washington Shubert, 
Hall 
Beethoven 

. When: Sept. 15,
and Ravel. along with 8 p.m.;its special 
pre-concert talk at 7:30
flair for con­temporary p.m. music. has . Tickets: $3-10, won the 
available at LaFortune
ensemble prizes at Box Ofice or charge by international 
phone, 631-8128
competitions in Canada, France and England, and the presti­gious Naumburg Award for Chambr,r Music. 
Lydian members include Daniel St<ipner, violin; .Judith Eissenberg, vio­lin; Mary Huth Hay, viola; and Hh<i111.la Hider, cello. 
Essential to the spirit of the Lydian is the commissioning and recording of new works. Their project, "American Originals: 20th Century Classics of' Today and 
Armenia. With education an integral part of the quartet's mission, the Lydians conduct mini-residencies in communities and universities through­out the United States. 
Winners of a Chamber Music America/ASCP Award for Adventurous Programming, the quartet has also received grants from the Meet the Composer/Rocke fe 11 er Foundation/AT&T Jazz Program in partnership with the Natioual Endowment for the Arts, Chamber Music America, Naumburg Foundation, Carillon Importers, Brandnis University, Mazer Grant and the Aaron Copland Fund for Music. 
During the summer months, the Lydians visit the Norfold Chamber Music Festival (Yale Summer School of Music and Art) and the Brandeis Summer Music Festival, where they run athree-week chamber music intensive, drawing music students and advanced amateurs from across the country. 
Recordings by the Lydians include works by John Harbison, Lee Hyla, William Schuman, Charles Ives, Irving Fine, Allen Anderson, Thomas Oboe Lee, Gabriel Faure and Franz Schubert. 
The Lydian string quartet is on the faculty of Brandeis University and appears by arrangement with Aaron Concert Artists, a division or Trawick Artists Ltd., New York. 
This concert features the local pre­miere of Notre Dame faculty-composer Ethan llimo's String Quartet in Two Movement. The performance of the Himo Quartet was made possible by a generous grant from the Boehnen Fund for Excellence in the Arts. 

Tomorrow," defines and crlebrates the rich reper­toire of contemporary American dassical music through the unique voice of the string quartet. Begun in I995, the pro­ject continues into the 21st r:rntury with newly commissioned works. 
The Lydian String Quartet has concertized extensively throughout the United States, at venut~s including the Lincoln Center, the Library of Congress and the Kennedy Center. lntrmiationally, the quar­
Courtesy of Tawick Artists Lid. 

tet has performed in a 
Acclaimed around the world, the Lydian string
series at Wigmore Hill, London. as well as in quartet brings its rich repertoire of American clas­France, Italy, Germany, sical music to Notre Dame's 1999-2000 Concert Switzerland, Russia and Series 
. Quink to perform at Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Special to The Observer 
Since Quink's debut in the 1978 Holland Festival, this remarkable Dutch vocal ensembl{i has risen to 
the top of its field and has been invited to perform on presti-Quink gious con­
. What: music concert

cert series around the . Where: Hesburgh world. 
Library Auditorium

The five 
. When: Sept. 26, 8 p.m.

y o u n g 
singers, who . Tickets: $3-10, are also 
available at the

experienced soloists, LaForlune Box Ofice or have devel­
charge by phone,

oped a 
631-8128

unique sound which allows them to illustrate with style and expressiveness the great variety of a cappella music. The ensemble includes Marjolein Koetsier, soprano; Mja Roodveldt, soprano; Corrie Ponk, alto; Hary Van Bene,. tenor; and K(~cs-jn de Koning, bass. 
Quink's repertoire varies widely and consists of a cappella music of the Henaissancc and Raroqut> periods as well as works by Romantic composers. 
Since· the spring of 1995. Quink combinnd forces with the Dutch instrumental Baroque ensemble The New Consort, thus covering a large part or the repertoire more often performed by larger groups. Moreover, the ensemble actively seeks ou( new works and commissions both of Pstablished and modern mas­ters. A number of Dutch. Gf'rman and ,\nrnrican composi­tions have been dedicated espe­cially to Quink. 
Quink has recorded on the Etcetera and CBS labels, and released compact discs with Vanguard Classics (Vaughn­Williams/Finzi) and Ottavo (Purcell: Buxtehude). Quink's CDs on Telarc International inelude collections of Italian and 

English madrigals, an offering of Christimas carols, a CD of international folksongs, "Invisible Cities," a collection of contemporary Dutch a cappella music and most recently, "Ain't Misbehavin." on occasion of' their 20th anniversary. 
In 1983, Quink received its first international recognition when tlrn group Was named finalist in a major music competition in Europe. Since then, it has been invited to perform on important series at home and abroad. The ensemble is often heard on radio and has also been invited to appear on national and international TV. 
Quink's first Cnited States tour in 1985 was so artistically successful that it often tours the U.S. twice a year. Tours have included resid1rncies at Dartmouth and the University or Massachusetts at Amherst and r,on­certs throughout the country. Quink was invited as spl'cial guest at the Iowa Choal Dirndors' Convention and gave its New york debut at Merkin Jill in 1988. Since then, the ensemble has performed many recitals across thn U.S., including several performances at The Cloisters in New York, and con­certs on both coasts, in thn Midwfist and in Alaska. 
They have also performed for Livent in Canada, and thn group is regularly invited to internationally-acclainwd music festivals. In the spring of 1988, Quink appeared in festivals in Tel Aviv and Singapore. Future seasnns include tours throughout Europ!' and the Far East. 

Courtesy of Joanne Rite Artists Management, Inc. Hailing from Holland, the five-piece vocal ensemble, Quink, specializes in a great variety of a cappella music_ 
Atte,ntion ·Music Fans 
\t~::\:: "i):?--' " .. . . . ':·:: ":,~'.f'.~~~:/~!:, ·.. "•< ' ,' . ._:,· . ·.::.:=':-·'·.:<t~f ':
The Observer MusicfScen.e currently'ls looking for reviewers ft>r all types ofmusic. If you are interested, please contact us ·at ndmusic@hotmail~coin·· 

• 
; so _5 au > ~_,.. ps_ ; a .... = -.,
C EE 

c~nec 
O
THE Tuesday, September 7, 199•),. BSERVER page 15 
CONCERT REVIEW 
Fighting for Tibet's right to freedom 
Lasting much of the day, an early to break rap's
By COREY HARTMANN 
highlight was the ptHl'ormance by color barrier. 
Scene Mu,ic Criri, 
Eddie Vedder of l'Parl .lam. who was Hun DMC backed by two members of the played some orAdam Yauch has arhicwod famo and Olympia. Wash., band, C Average. their popular fortu1w with his group, Urn Bcaslin Sporting shorter, blond hair, Vedder songs from I.he 
Bnys for snvHral yiiars. did his best .~o rock _the,_h.:>use, playin?. •80s -"Mary. 
)lpc1•11tly. lw has donn much morr.. vcrsrnns ol Last Kiss. Better Man Mary," "Walk Tlw 1!1:astk Boys, largr.ly under tlH\ and "I Am A Patriot," in addition to This Way" and clirtwtion of Yauch, havt-slarwd an covBrs of The Police's "Driven To "It's Tricky." Run a1111ual su111rn1H· fPstival calledtlrn Tears" and the Tatking Heads' "Lov!'­DMC worked the Tibetan FrePdo!ll Conc,irl (TFC). >Building on Fire." r:rowd, giving Yauch, who c11nvcrtc1d to t.lH\ Tibetan l.ivn's setlist included popular hits shout-outs and n-ligion 11 ,·oupln ynars ago, wanted to l'rom its albums Throwing Coppor and preparing the rais,i awarnnoss and mo,rny in ordor Sncrnt Samadhi, including "Snlling the audience for lo h1dp makP Tibd a country frne Drama," "I Alone" and "Lakini's what everyone f'rn111 Chincs,1 11pprcssion. .Juice." Their most notable song was there had been 
Ttw last lhrn,, sumnHH'S ha\/11 had "Lightning Craslrns." waiting for San Fnll1cisco, Nr.w York and The first hcadlitrnr to take tht> stage the Beastie Boys. Courtesy o1 llbel99.com Washington D.C. as homn lo TFC. was Hage Against Lhe Machine. When llowcver, lhe Taking the stage shortly after 10 p.m., the Beastie Boys This yPar, Yaurh and tho B11astie H,ige took the stage. drinks went !ly­crowd at. Alpine pleased the crowd with old and new favorites. Boys dncicl«HI Lo ing and tlrn crowd Valley did not try somothing in the lawn sepa· have as much n 1•w, how,iver. rated lo open up respect for Run DMC as the Beasties quest for freedom. In addition, the Instead of having for the mosh pits. have, The rappers tried their hardest group thanked every act for playing <llW large two to { Luckily. it had to get the crowd hyped, but many 
that day (all the performers played for thrNi day f'nstival, rained all morn­people were just anxious to see the 
free) and for keeping the annual festi­thPy clecidt•d to ing, so there was Beastie Boys take the stage. val alive. 
havn !'our con-mud everywhere. Taking the stage and starting out Yauch stressed that the Communist. 1:erts. simultaiw­Zach de la with "Body Movin'," Ad Rock, MCA government of China has oppressed ously, around llw Rocha woke and Mike D were dancing from one the people of Tibet for too long and 
world on J111w 13. everyone up and nnd of the stage to the other. The that everyone can help Tibel win its Tokyo. Syclrrny, had everyone crowd was louder during the Beastie freedom. Amstt'rdam and slamming · to Boys pnrf'ormance than it had been all With everyone worked up. scream­
Chicago w1•n• llw songs such as day. ing and yelling, waiting for something hosts of' TH: this "Killing in the After their opener, they stayed with big to happen, Mike I) sat down at thn
Appearing without his Pearl Jam 
su mnwr. Namt! Of," "Ghost their popular llello Nasty songs like drums, MCA grabbed his bass guitar,
bandmates, Eddie Vedder played a
ThP Chil'ago of' Tom Jones," "Three MC's and One DJ," "Super Ad Hock grabbed his guitar and said, 
set consisting mostly of obscure
TH: was actlla!ly "Bulls on Parade," Disco Breakin'," "Remote Control" "This one is for the Chinese 
covers.

lwld in East Troy. "Bullet in the and the party favorite, "Intergalactic." Government." With that, "Sabotagti" Wisc., ,~l lht• Head" and Surprisingly. they played only a few thundered through the air or East /\I pi nti Va It ey "Bomblrack." old songs, but chose some of their Troy, Wisc. Musir TIH•atl'r and indudticl a li1wup Hun DMC, ontl ol' the fallrnrs of' mod-best -"So Watcha Want" and "Sure The festival was a complete success, rnnsisting of' Otis Bush, Thti Hoots. 1irn rap, took tlrn stage next. The Shot." raising awareness in addition to thou­l!londiP. lhP Cult. Traci Chapman, group was asked to join thn TFC line­Ad Hock. sporting an old New York sands of dollars for the Tibetan peo­Livi', Ftldi«· VPcldPr. Hun DMC and tlw up 1.Jncausn the lfoastie Boys have a Knicks T-shirt, came to the mic to telt ple. No matter the cause, the ago or l{p;rs!iP Hoys. Bag,• Against tilt: lot ol' resptlct !'or tho rap group. llun the crowd about what the Beasties the racn, the people of today have r-.tad1i111•. originally srlwdulnd to play DMC: helpnd the B-Boys throughout have been up to lately. MCA, a.k.a. found many ways to get together, in ,\mstPrda111. was a last-second tlw '80s during tlrn lime the throe Adam Yauch, thanked the crowd for have a good time and help those that addition al't.t•r Oulkasl bowrd out. whitn boys rrom Brooklyn wern trying its support of the Tib11tan pr.ople's are in need of help. 


_-_-_-_-_-_-_-::.._-::.._-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-=~==-================================================================================-=-~:__:========== 
Music Column 
On MTV, Kurt, Shaq and state of noise 
Do••s music n•ally 11war1 anything any-Whal has MTV donn !'or music'? "llern we are now, entertain us. superstar who still thinks that the letter 111CJrl''! W1•ll. Olli' might say il nwans Basically it's held the dnstiny or many Those famous words were uttered by "l" bnlongs in the word "t1mm." hig bul'ks and hig ngos, hut I' 111 not talk­singers and bands in its own hands. If Mr. Kurt Cobain years ago, but it seems Ever since he decided he had mad inl,{ about that. MTV likes how you look, you are going like only yesterday we were all prepar­skills to rock the mic on his very own I want to kn11w il' arlists in lhe popular lo make it big, kid. Modern rock radio ing for the "alternative" revolution. rap albums, all hell has broken loose. music world cam for stations like to tnll you that they play (Wipe the tear from your eye here.) Athlntes think they am rockers and an yt hi 11 g b11 sid ns "breaklhrough songs before MTV has "Smells Like Teen Spirit" made the rockers think they are athletes. Garth 
..
Geoff Rahie 
f'asl cars. big pay­even heard of them." record executives sign Brooks tried to play alongside Tony drnrks or nicP hair That is a lie. It's got­pretenders like Gwynn on the San Diego Padres. Master
Now I will not try to trick

faltlwugh 11ic11 hair ten to the point (at Silverchair and had P became a soldier with the Charlotte is an imporlant Scene Music least I think) where any ofyou: I like looking kids across the coun­Hornets. Chris Webber took time from thing. Wlwni would Critic MTV µlaus what will try feeling sorry for his acting career (he has a lead roln
at Brittany Spears just

Vanilla lc-n hav1• be on their Top IO list themselves. Nine. Inch with the Sacramento Kings) to start a 
as much as the guy next

bti<\ll withoul his wti!I in advance. Hadio Nails became huge, record company. Will the inadness ever killer fadn'!L IL would appniu-that music slalions takn the hint. door ... But she has a Scott Weiland could end? Not until someone givr.s Shaq a rnally has dPg1mPratnd into a lifolnss, from MTV and start to do whahwer he want­refrr.shing slap in tho facr..
voice that makes me 

r11Hi1t1inglBss way lo mako noisn and I play songs over and ed and all rock music As long as there are squealing little
want to kill a possum.

hnv,• linally ligurt\d out what brought us over and over. sounded exactly the girls and MTV V.l's. there will b1i a place all into this nwss: MTV, Tenn Spirit and Brittany Spears and same. in America's heart for the Backstreet that goofy baskPlball play1)r out in L./\. Jennifer Lopez do not I am not knocking Boys. As long as disenchanted teenagers 
Now I will lw willing to admit that know how lo sing, but on Cobain or "Teen wear their "H.I.P Kurt" and Korn T­appParnncns haw always b1ien a part. of' they are hot. So they were destined f'or Spirit." In fact. I think the song was per­shirts, the youth of America can rejoice pop music. Tnkt• a look at. thn Beatles. superstardom. fectly crafted and also brought a lot of in their hatred for thn world. And as l'aul could huvn been lying in a pool of' • Now I will not try to trick any of you: I good, namely catapulting the Seattln long as there am annoying athlntes murk and girls would havn still gonn .like looking at Brillany Spears just as scene to a national level. But the song around wo will havn the pleasure or crazy ov1ir him. But t!VP!l though a fol of much as Urn n,:,xt guy. Shn is a very brought a lot of' trash that finally started having no-talent all-stars. girls liked llw llt!atlcs !'or tlw way they attractive girl that looks good on a lo die a l'ew years ago. If imitation is the People say I'm crazy because all this look1•d, llwrc wcr11 a nrnss ol' pcnpln who poster hanging on my dorm room in highest form of llatttiry, wo all love you, stuff should be fun and entertaining. To l'(•!l in loV(\ with their music -tlrny wern Dillon. But sh<' has a voicn that mak11s Kurt. quote Cosmo Kramer: "You may say I'm masttir songwritors. mn w11nl to kill a possum. You might be saying to yourself crazy, but maybe I'm so sane that I just 
Today. iI' you are able to makn lit.tic Stars that should have never shone "There is something missing. There has blew your mind." boys and girls puss out al the silt! of burn brightly thanks to the video revolu­to be another thing that surrendered your lrnauty, you do nut nemJ tn know tion. Would people cvm1 know what "La music to the dark side," Well I have two The views expressed in this column anything about music. And MTV can be Vida Loca" meant if it wasn't for silly words for you: Shaquille O'Neal. Yes, I are those of the author and not neces­thankml for thaL Ricky dancing in the rain? am talking about the obnoxious L.A. sarily those ofThe Observer. 

Q_§

a sue __ _. zu o as a a u
ISJ -=-ca t 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September 7, 1999 
ESPN continues to highlight sportscasts reel 
deep cleavage --and beg for Escape from Planet ESPN Berman, the host, competed "RPM ~Night," "NIIL 2Night''
• After 20 years 
more. over the din of chewing patrons and "Collego Gameday." But the
is nearly impossible. It is
of cable broadcast­Like Audrey II, the greedily and Frank Gilford looked as if he biggest of the shows are "NFL ing, sports station hungry plant in "Little Shop of international, online, in were pushed into a soundproof Countdown." which expanded to Horrors" who demanded, "Feed publishing. theme<j, din-booth on «Win Ben Stein's two hours last season, andkeeps expanding me!." ESPN has fed delightedly Money." Berman will be host to "Monday Night Countdown,"
ing, radio, interctivity, 
on a sports diet. swallowing the "Monday Night Football's" half­which stretrhes to two hours
music, pagers. pay-per­
cable rights to whatever it could time show in the New York next week. By RICHARD SANDOMIR and birthing offspring like a fer­view and syndication -Zone, without visible on-air You think ESPN didn't enlarge Associated Press tility clinic:. When one 24-hour mastication. its shows to help pay its $600
and ample time is found
network wasn't enough, it start­Despite the growth of ESPN as million annual Sunday night tab
to cross-promote

ed ESPN2. doubling the chance a multimedia kingdom, its heart to the National Football LAagun'>
SomP revolutions arc planmid. to hear Dick Vitalo. When that them all. remains "Sportscentor," a news For those contemplating
ESPl\'s was not. Thero was no intention of was inadequate to lit its needs, it show with a hummable theme whether starting their own 
hijacking the sports world when sprouted ESPNews. When the song, enormous breadth and sports media nmpire is a prof­a former hockey µublic rnlalions Classic Sports Network charmed ever-present, continuous loop of creativity, stars like Patrick and itable idea, think of this: tlrn nostalgists with vintage oldies Bob Ley (backed by lesser­media rest~arch firm Paul Kagan
man bought satellitl' time to bottom-of-the-screen scores on
first seen bef'orti Chris Berman knowns plucked from stations Associates, says the mother ship
start showing Connecticut sports ESPN2. on cable television. 20 years ago coined a nickname, ESPN nationwide or raised on a high­ESPN will pile up cash flow of
With the ESP!\ Chilton Sports
bought it if only to prnve that light-rich regimen on the $506.2 million on revenue of
Tuesday. Polls, the empire can survey
Dirk Schaap has seen evt>ry ESPNews ranch), and others $1.3 billion this y1rnr. Tlrn
The revolution needed time to yuur feelings about_ itself: ls Dan 
sports event known to man. who believe a sports report can­Sanford C. Bernstein hrokeragn
percolate, but ESPN showed Patrick more handsome than viewers that highlights need not Escape from Planet ESPN is not be justified without attempt­says ESPN is worth $ I5.4 billion.
Kenny Mayne? Do you under­
he coniiued to lhree and a half nearly impossible. It is interna­stand Stuart Scott's linguistic ing a joke or snide allusion every But bnaling ESPN and its hug«i tional (20 networks). online 30 Sf-lconds. Many are the ances­headstart is tough. Fox Sports
minutes appended to the 1md of riffs? a local newscast, that the early (ESPN.coml. in publishing (FSPN tral sons of' Keith Olhermann, Net is a national cable rwtwork
And Tuesday ESPN will start 
rnunds of the National Collegiate the Magazine and ESP'.'J Books). two new networks -ESPN the wittiest sports anchor of' all. built to app«ial to hometown loy­Athletic Association men's bas­themed dining !the ESPN Zunel. Extra, for pay-per-view, and who left ESPN's nest in a huff alties by carrying local garrnis ketball tournament contained radio (ESPN Radio). interactivitv and now seeks to whup ESPN that are follownd by the national
ESPN Now, for sports news and 
many earthly delights and that (ESPN Digital Games), music. from his Fox Sports f\iews perch. "Fox Sports News," which does
schedules. Suddenly, we need 
pagers. pay-per-view and syndi­"Sportscenter" defined for not have a hummablfl theme
the National Football League more ESPN? Yesterday I didn't
cation -and ample time is ESPN a culture of studio shows. song hut alerts viewers con­
draft offered the reward of think so. watching your tea,n try to better found to cross-prnmote them all. The more you have, the more stantly to its Jumbotron high­
Will we finallv be full after 
itself before your eyes. The leverage provided hy the these two? · you make. Expensive game lights semen. ESPN tries to ESPN is a global empire (part ESPN networks to push ESPN No, because more will be fed rights are unnecessary for a stu­ignore Fox, which is impossibln the Magazine into circulation of dio show, which is the philoso­because of its aggressiveness,
of the Walt Disney Company into the maw next Tuesday domain) built on the proposition 850,000 has proved incalcula­phy of CNN/SI, essentially a 24-illustrated recently with its deci­
when the newest ESPN Zone 
that fans can't get enough ble. hour version of "Sportscenter" sion to creatn a one-hour N.F.L.
restaurant opens on Broadway, sports, that even if you are sup­ESPN creates its own pro­with replicas of ESPN's studio created by an ESPN rival. Even show, starting nflxt weflk to posed to cut down on choles­grams (the X Games, Winter X though ESPN cannot carry the coincide with the beginning of
sets, enough television screens terol. you can binge cm a diet of Games, ESPY Awards), produces to fill a P. C. Richard showroom World Series or Super Bowl, it is ESPN's "NFL Countdown." top-flight reports in "Outside the always on site, packing enough
baseball. football, college bas­
and custom "Zone-Throne" ketball, hockey, soccer, golf, ten­Lines" and a brilliant series like viewing stations. The first ESPN equipment and manpower to the ongoing "Sportscentury" cover an invasion. ESPN and The views expressed in this
nis and a morning block of fit­Zone. in Baltimore, played host 
ness shows that are part sweat, countdown of the top 50 athletes to ABC's "Monday Night ESPN2's studio mainstays column are those of the author part rippling pectorals and part of the past 100 years, and it include "Baseball Tonight," and not necessarily those ofThe
Football's" halftime show, where
informs (and bedevils) with its "NFL 2Night," "NBA 2Night," Observer. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. 10 3 p.m. ar rhe Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds musr be prepaid. The charge is 3 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhc right ro edit
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Part time positions ol 5-1 0  6 Bedrm '00-01 yr.  Florida $129!springbreaktrav­ call Colleen 4-2244 ii you can  
LOST & FOUND  hrs/wk. teaching soccer class­es for 3-8 yr. olds. 10am-12pm  273-0482 / 234-3831  el.com 1-800-678-6386  WANTED­ND football tix.  help!  
&4pm-7pm, Mon. thru Thurs.  LARGE 1-bdrm apt.  AM -232-2378  
LOST: BAG OF MAKEUP IN  Must have teaching experi- All utilities + cable. $450/mo.  NEW Prepaid Phone Cards!!!  PM -288-2726  Need 4 Oklahoma GAs -Matt  
JOYCE CENTER THE WEEK  ence, basic soccer skill know!­ $250 dep.  $20 ->669 minutes  4-1248  
OF 8/23. PLEASE CALL LAU- edge. Multiple positions avail­ 1 0 mins. to ND  Call 243-9361, ask for Rob  ND football tix for sale.  
RIE AT 247-0545.  able immediately. Call Dan  273-3876.  AM -232-2378  WILL TRADE 2-4 PURDUE  
Payne, SoccerZone  FOR SALE  PM -288-2726  TIX FOR 1-2 TENN. TIX.  
LOST: My Student Ticket  243-5777.  3 bdrm duplex, remodeled.  N.D. FOOTBALL TIX  847-344-1505.  
Book -I need it for obvious rea­ 503 Eddy, one mile from cam­ CALL271-9412  I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME  
sons. It is section30 row56.  Inn @ Saint Mary's seeking  pus. Appliances, W/D. 273­ GAMES.2726551  I NEED 5 TIX (GA OR  
Please call 4-1663 for reward!  van driver/house person  8332.  FOR SALE  OTHER).FOR MICH. STATE  
Good hours & pay.Apply  N.D. FOOTBALL TIX  BUYING and SELLING N D  CALL LIZ 243-0151  
within.  AVAILABLE FALL 2000  CALL 271-9412  FOOTBALL TICKETS.  
FOR SALE  Coach's Sportrs Bar & Grill  5-6 STUDENT RENTAL...2 1/2 BATH;COMMON AREA  Bikes for sale.Good to excel- GREAT PRICES. CALL 289­8048  I have 4 tickets to the Perdue game. If interested call  
is looking for line cooks, will  ON EACH LEVEL AND HUGE  lent condition.All good  Laura at 234-3615.  
FREE FOOD AND FROSTY  pay for experance. Please  BONUS COMMON  mechanically.Ready to ride!  ++++++++++++++++++++++  
BEVERAGES  call277-7678, or stop by 2046  AREA...PARKING LOT,LAUN­ 674-0541  +++++++  
In return for a place to crash  South Bend Ave.  DRY.  N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS  PERSONAL  
for the ND-USC game.  DON'T DELAY ON THIS  BUY/SELL/fRADE  
4 '94-95 alums seeking  ONE.  Dining table w/4 chairs  ALL GAMES  lnteresested in jazz or classi­ 
refuge. Call Bill @ 703-469­ Afterschool childcare needed.  DAVE AT 291-2209.  (1 yr.old). $200/obo.  ALL LOCATIONS  cal piano lessons?  
..  1008.  3:00-5:00prn weekdays (all or some). Must be good with chi!­ 1989 Isuzu Trooper LS, 4 WO  GREAT PRICES 271-9330  Only $10/week call Joel at 288-4517 .  
dren and have reliable car.  AVAILABLE FALL 2000  , loaded, 1OSK mi. Excellent.  !!NO STUDENT TICKETS!!  
STUDENT OPENINGS  Call Angela 234-2211 (days),  4-5 STUDENT RENTAL  $4250/obo.  TICKETMART INC.  
5-30 hrs./week. Flex. around  271-8224 (eves.)  HOUSE SECURITY SYS·  www.ndtickets.com  Somebody, anybody, get me  
classes.  TEM.CENTRAL AIR  Complete twin bed. $65.  ++++++++++++++++++++++  outta here!!!!  
Scholarships avail.  CONDITIONING,LAUNDRY,P  ++++++++  
www.workforstudents.com/lN  FOR RENT  ARKING LOT ... DAVE AT 291­ Call 277-3254.  
282-2357  2209.  GA FOOTBALL TICKETS  Oh, yes. I predict this week- 
ROOMS FOR RENT IN PAI­ FOR SALE: New, rust col- ALL HOME GAMES  end ... partying till we can't  
www.PopWall com-FUNKIFY  VATE HOME FOR ND-SMC  ored chair, will deliver to cam- stand!  
YOUR DORM  EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO  AVAILABLE SPRING 2000  pus, $50, call 1-5766.  BEST PRICES 272-7233  
ROOM.Posters.bean bags.lava  CAMPUS 243-0658.  4-5 STUDENT RENTAL  ASK FOR AL  
lamps & more.  HOUSE SECURITY SYS­ '84 Cutlass Ciera  Rockin' Sorority!  
For on-campus job -call toll  TEM,CENTRAL AIR  V6, Clean, Good mechanical  NEED 2 MICHIGAN ST. TIX!!!  
free 1.87.POPWALL.1  THAT PRETTY PLACE,  CONDITIONING.LAUNDRY,  maintenance, excellent trans- email: moon.6@nd.edu  
Bed and Breakfast Inn has .  PARKING LOT ...  portabon. $950.  I am not good in school any- 
Spring Break '00  space available for football/par- DAVE AT291-2209.  288-8628.  FOR SALE  more.  
Cancun,Mazatlan or Jamaica  ent wknds. 5 Rooms with pri- N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS  
From $399  vate baths, $80-$115,  CALL 271-9412  
Reps wanted! Sell 15 and travel free'  Middlebury, 30 miles from cam­pus. Toll Road Exit #107, 1­ WANTED  TICKETS  PURDUE TIX  it's a simple fact really.  
LOWEST PRICES GUAAAN­ 800-418-9487.  TICKETMART  
TEED!!!  Spring Break  WANTED NOTRE DAME  271-9330  connolly's friends: your mes- 
lnfo:Call 1-800-446·8355  3-6 BDRM HOMES NEAR  Specials'Bahamas Party  FOOTBALL TICKETS  sages crack me up.  
www.sunbreaks.com  CAMPUS. NOW OR  Cruise 5 Days $279! Includes  271-1526  I need 3 Arizona tix-Please  
2000/2001.ROOMS ALSO  Meals!  call Colleen 4-2244 if you can  
SOCCERZONE Soccer Instructors  272-6306  Awesome Beaches,Nightlife!Cancun &  SELL &BUY GA FOOTBALL TICKETS  help!  just build the bridge! all right?  
LOADED  Jamaica 7 Nights From $399!  277-6619  I need 3 Arizona tix-Please  


Ti.1esday, September 17, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
Vikings worry after lackluster preseason 
Anociated Press 
EDEN Plli\lBIE. Minn. 

/\ lacklustm· Hxhibition snason and trouble on defense havf: lefl Llw Minnesota Vikings with a bounty or worries and noth­ing rnsnmhling a Super Bowl fitvoriw's swaggor. 
"I don't think anybody's where thny want to bo," cor­1111rback .limtny llitchcock said. ·"Throughout thr whole team wn'vc got l() gel b1\tlBr. not just any particular position. 
"'Evnrybody down to tho walm boys hav1\ got to do ,t hPttnr job." lw added. 
Tlw Vikings arr thin ut line­backer, whern versatile backup l'ctt-' lforc.ich was placed on injured rnscrvc with a major knc11 injury and starters Ed McDaniol lkn,~el and Dwayne Hud<l (shouldi~r) have bt>cn lim­itod. /\nd thn dcfonsiv(] Iinci has lwnn a slrnf'ffo, starting with llimitrius Undnwood's <lcpar­tuni on Day I of lrnining camp. 
Al'tnr thn Vikings were outscornd by tlrn JP.ts 29-7 in tlw sPcond half last week, Coach D,~nnis Grrrn was as candid as hr's Pvcr been in assr~ssing tlw lt>am's pnrsonnel. IIr lanrnnt1HI its lack of del'en­siv r~ ckpth and said he was grnatly trouhlml by inackqua­ciPs in tlw pass rush, pass pro· tPi:tion, tlw rnnning gamn and in «T<!aling turnovers. 
"'You hope that how you play in preseason will bu an indica­tion of how you're going to play in the soason, if you play well," Grncrn said after the Vikings' 38-17 loss. "I don't think we neccissarily played well. That could be a sign that we don't have 53 players who can play wnll enough at this level. I know we got some that can. We'll try to focus on those." 
Green rummaged through the waiver wiro Monday and picked up linebacker Hob Ifofmberg, a sixth-yMr pro who was cut by the New York Jets, and brought back pass-rusher Martin Harrison. whom the Vikings waived lasl week. 
Jets coach 8ill Parcells told Grnen that Holmberg was going to be available, so the Vikings kept close watch on him during the game at the Meadowlands on Friday night, when Bercich torn a knee ligament. 
Thanks to Parcells' recom­nrn ndation. Holmberg went from thn AFC favorites to tho NFC favorites. 
Like Bercich, Holmberg will back up at both weakside and strongsidc linebacker as well as playing special teams. 
Minnesota's high-octane olfonsP.s mwer got on track in the prcseason, and that's frus­trated receiver Randy Moss, the 1998 Offensive Hookie of the Year. 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 


Garcia helpsTigers tear Oakland 
Associated Press 

OAKLAND, Calif. 
Karim Garcia hit a tiebrea.k­ing home run in the seventh inning and Tony Clark home­
red  and  doubled  twice  to  
drive  in  four  runs  as  the  
Detroit  Tigers  beat  the  

Oakland Ath!Atics 9-7 Monday night. 
Luis Polonia went 4-for-5 with a pair of RBIs to help Detroit withstand five Oakland home runs, including two by Jason Giambi, and gain a split of Lhe four-game series. 
Oakland's second loss to Detroit in as many days dropped the A's to three games behind front-running Boston in the AL wild-card race. The Red Sox, who took three of four in Seattle, open a two-game series in Oakland on Tuesday night. 
Dave Borkowski (1-4) picked up his first major league win with 2 1/3 score­less innings in relief of Jeff Weaver, who allowed five runs and eight hits in 3 2/3 innings. 
Omar Olivares (13-10) went six-plus innings and allowed six runs on eight hits, leaving after surrendering Garcia's homer leading off the seventh. The loss was Olivares' first after winning five straight decisions since coming lo Oakland from Anaheim in a July 29 trade. 
(TICKETS ON SALE FOR $4 @ LAFUN INFO DESK) 
ACOUSTIC CAFE 
THURSDAY NIGHT LAFORTUNE HUDDLE 
9-12 

..., 
The A's rallied to 8-7 on solo home runs in the eighth by Ben Grieve and Olmedo Saenz, but Clark then home­red in the top of the ninth to give Detroit a two-run cush­ion. 
Todd Jones worked the ninth for his 24th save. 
Oakland moved in front 5-3 when Giambi led off the third with his second homer and career-high 28th of the sea­son. Stairs followed with his 33rd homer. 
The Tigers tied it in the fifth on Polonia's run-scoring triple and Clark's sacrifice fly, his third BB( of the night. 
Garcia put the Tigers back in front when he led off the seventh with his ninth homer. Damion Easley added an RBI single off reliever Chad Harville. 
Olivares trailed 3-0 before getting the game's first out. Polonia led off with a single, Brad Ausmus was hit by a pitr.h and Clark doubled them home. Easley followed wilh an RBI 
single. Oakland pulled to 3­2 in its half of the first. when B.ich Becker singled and Giambi connected one out later for his 100th career homer. 
Angels 5, Yankees 3 
Jarrod Washburn scattered five hits over 7 2/3 innings and Troy Glaus hit a three­run homer as the Anaheim 
•


RECRUITMENT NJ:GHT 
LAFUN BALLROOM 
a-10:30 

SIGN UP & JOIN 


MOVIE 
ED TV 
CUSHING $2 

THURSDAY, fR.IDAY, 
10:30 e:oo 10:30 
& SATUR.DAY 
e:oo 
10:30 
WEDNESDAY 
e:oo 
WASHINGTON HALL 
Angels beat Roger Clemens and the New York Yankees. 
In what looked like a pitch­ing mismatch going into the game, Washburn, winless in four starts this year with a 
9.15 ERA, struck out three and walked one to earn his first victory of the year. 
In the longest outing of his two-year r.areer, Washburn (1-3) gave up a pair of runs on solo homers by Shane Spencer, his seventh, in the fifth inning and Chili Davis, his 17th, in the sixth. 
Mike Magnante relieved after Washburn allowed an RBI singlA to Derek Jeter with two out in the eighth. Jeter went 1-for-4 and Is hitting .353, second in the AL to Boston's Nomar Garciaparra. 
Troy Percival pitched the ninth for his 27th save. He struck out pinch-hitter Darryl Strawberry with a runner on to end the game. 
Clemens (12-8) got off to a rocky start, giving up Glaus' homer in the opening inning, then allowing a two-run shot by Jim Edmonds in the fifth. 
Clemens gave up five runs and hits in 4 2/3 innings, with four walks and three strike­outs. 
Obviously having difficulty spotting his pitches, the hard­throwing right-hander made 103 pitches. 
The wingave them the sea­son series against New York, 
6-4. 


COME CHECK US OUT & SEE WHAT WE 1RE ALL ABO 

• _,-----___________________....,.._____________________-:c-_,...,._______________,
r 
' 
r page 18 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, Seprember 7, 1999 


.. 
© 1999 ERNST & YOUNG llP 

Going up. 
As you begin your ascent to the top, remember, it's what you learn along the way that counts. At Ernst & Young, you can have endless learning opportunities working with leading companies in 
FORTUNE

leading industries. So when you get to your destination, you'll belong there. Ride with us. www.ey.com 
10~~~ ,.
~ANiR 
TD WORII FOR 

lt1csday, St>fnembcr 7, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
MLB 
Man sues Orioles' mascot 
A~ socioucd Press 
BALTIMOHE 

t\ N1iw forimy man has lihid a $]5 million lawsuit against tlw Orioln Bird. claiming ho got rouglwd up by tlw mascot during a ganw. 
Vi11c1111t Mi11nrvini ol' KPanslrnrg, N . .I., all1!gcs fhut .Jeff Carlrnir, mw of" tlrn thrnc 11w11 who 1rnrl'or111 ns tho Ballimon• Oriol1is mascot. struck him with his tail, puslwd him in th1• dwst and took his pro1wrty without p<'r­missi1111. 
"Kind of n·mincls nH• of .Jimmy CartPr and thP rabbit," OriolPs ow1rnr t>ntnr (;, i\ngPlos Lold Tlw !BaltimoreI Daily H1icorcl. rnl'nrring to the l"ornll'r prnsid1•111.'s cnn­tr!'lPmps with a bunny during a c.111111· Lri p. 1111 declined f"ur­tlwr ,·omnwnt. 
111 his lawsuit. Mi1wrvini lllllllPS lwo !'SCorts. two polirP111P11 and n11 uslwr who hP rlai111s 111anha11dlPd him and fals<'ly ,llTPstl'd him dur­ing a May I()1)7 ho11w game against llH· Nt•w York M1its. Tht• Baltimort• Orioles and tlw Maryland Sladium Authority ulso ani nanwd in ll11• lawsuit. 
Mi1wrvini is snl'king $5 mil­lion in damages for each of llll' Sf\Vl'll rounts in tlw ("0111­plaint. lit• doPs 110! specify what. if any. µhysical injuriPs lH• suffpn•d. 
llis comp.l11inl. lilml l;riday in Baltimon• Circuit Court. doPs nol say wllf'tllt'r hn was bookPd 011 assault charges and a poli1•p spokcsnHm was unavailabln Labor Day. · 
.fulit• Wagner. the Orioles· dirnctor of commt111ity rela­tions. said Lim organization had 1w commPnt 011 the mal­tf'r. N1•ith1•r Mi11tirvini nor his attonwy .lessn E. Cox could be n•adwd for 1·om11wnt. 
(;arlnPr is the sncond Oriol1•s mas1:ot to land in court this Sl'llSOll. 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Ramirez knocks in five RBIs for Indians 
Asso~ia1eJ Press 
BALTIMOHE 

Bookie Alex Hamirez lwmcrcd and had a career­high five RBIs, and Hoberto Alomar drove in the tinbrnaking nm in the eighth inning as the Clnveland Indians beat tho Baltimorn Orioles . 
M,mny Hamirez had three hits. including two doubles, !wiping tlrn Indians bounced back l'rom a 3-0 dclicit after they W!ffC held to a pair of singles through the first six innings. 
llav11 Burba (l:{-7) allownd tlm)e runs, live hits and four walks in seven innings to win his fifth straight dm:ision. 
Mikn Jackson got thrcr. outs for his :15th savu in 38 rlrnncns, but it wasn't easv. 
After an HBl single -by pinch-hitll'r Delino 1)(1ShiPlds, tlw Oriolns got within a run when Jim Thomn mishandled Brady Anderson's grounder to first for an orror. 
/\ sacril"ice attempt l'ailt!d, leaving runners at first and s1icond with one out, and ILi. Surlwff hit into a gamc-nnd­ing doubh1 play. 
Albnrt Belle hit two hnnrnrs l'o r Baltimore, a th rec-run shot in tlrn third inning and a solo drivn in the eighth. Cal Hipkon Wt!lll 1-for-4 for tho Oriolcs to move within 28 hits or :-UlOO for his career. 
With thn score 3-all. Dave Holrnrts led orr Lhe eighth with a walk o!T Doug .Johns 14-:{J and took second on a sacrificri. .Jesse Orosco rnplacnd .Johns. and Hoberts stole third before Alomar grounded a single past the drawn-in inl1nld. 
Al Hey!\S came in and gave up a double to Manny Hamirez, walked Jim Thome intentionally to load the bases and retired Hichie Sexson on a llyball. 
Alex Harnirez then hit a 1­2 pitch into Lim g.tp in right­cm1ter, his first major league triple. 
lie earlier hit a twc,-run 
homer to tie the score in tho scvRnth. 
Alomar, who had five RBIs and the decisive three-run homer Friclay, went 2-for-4. 
The Indians won three of four in the series. which marked Alomar's first trip to Baltimore after spending throe seasons with the Orioles from 1996-98. 
Johns pitched a season-high 7 1/3 innings, allowing four runs on five hits. lie blanked the Indians through the first six innings but yielded three runs on three hits in the sev­enth. 
Stymied by Johns through the first six innings, the Indians struck back with authority in the seventh. 
Manny Hamirez led off with a double off the wnll in right and Sexson l1it a 01HH1t1l HBI single, his 100th HBl of tlrn season. 
Alex Hamirez then lined Johns' next pitch into the left­field seats. 
Twins 13, Devil Rays 7 
Matt Lawton and Tndd Walker had two HBls each during a six-run, sixth-inning as the Minnesota Twins beat the Tampa Bay Devil Hays. 
After twice blowing leads and falling behind 7-(i, Mi•n nesola went ahead for good as Lawton hit a two-run single and Lawton had a two­run double. 
Jacque Jones hit a three­run homer and Corey Koskie had a two-run shot for the Twins. who had 16 hits and struck out 14 hits. 
Bubba Trammell hit a three-run home run and Fred McCriff had a two-run double for the Devil Hays. All seven Tampa Bay runs came with two outs. 
Hector Carrasco (2-2) pitclrnd 3 1/3 innings of shutout rnlief. Hick White (5­
3) was the loser. 
The Twins sent 10 men to the plate in the sixth against three pitchers. 
In addition to the run scor­ing hits by Lawton and Walker. Terry Steinbach and 

Doug Mientkiewicz added RBI singles. 
Trammell's homer put the Devil Rays up 7-6 and chasr-d starter Eric Milton, who allowed seven runs and eight hits in 4 2/3 innings. 
All the runs came after Milton was hit in the leg by Miguel Cairo's liner in the third. 
Cairo's hit started a two-out rally. /\fter a walk to Terrell Lowery -the first by Milton in 23 innings -1lerbert Perry hit an HBI single. 
McCriff made it 3-2 with his double. 
Jones" homer off rookie Dan Wheeler put Minnesota ahead 5-3 in the fourth . .Jones has two homers and seven HBls in his past five games. 
Wheeler lastod just 3 2/3 innings in his second earner start. lie allowed five runs and six hits. 
Koskie hit his l 0th homer in the third. Ile is I 2-for-27 with two homers and nine HBls in his past nine ganrns. 
Red Sox 3, Mariners 2 
.Jason Varitek homered for thn third time in two games and drove in two runs Monday, leading the Boston Red Sox over the Seattle Mariners. 
Boston, which began the day with a two-game lead over Oakland in the AL wild­card race, broke a 1-all tie in tho sixth on Butch lluskny's RBI double. 
Varitek then added a sacri­fice fly. Ile also homered in the second off John Halama (11-6) winless in his last thrne starts. 
Boston starter Kent Mercker left aftnr 3 1/3 innings. 
lie collided with WiltonVeras when the third baseman caught Charles Gipson's fouled bunt attempt in the third, then came out to start the fourth. 
Bryce Florie (3-1) replaced him with one out and allowed two runs -one earned -and one hit in 2 2/3 innings. Derek Lowe pitched a perfect ninth for his 12th save. 
ATTENTION CLUBS! 
Every club is required to send at least their President and Treasurer to ONE of the fullowing Club Info Meetings. All club officers are invited to attend. For more info, read. below or check out the SAO web site: www. nd. edul~saolc/uhs/meetings. htm 
Club Info Meetings will review policies, procedures, forms, e~ent inf?rmation, important dates and deadlines, and everyone will have an opportunity .to have their questions answered. Fall 1999 club 
meetings will be held: 
Tuesday, Sept. 7  8:00 PM  
Thursday, Sept. 9  6:30 PM  
Monday, Sept. 13  5:00 PM  
Wednesday,Sept.15  5:00 PM  

* All Meetings Are Held in Montgomery Theat(!r 

llalama allowed three runs and nine hits in eight-plus innings. 
In his first two appearances against the Hed Sox. he was tagged for 10 runs and eight hits in 5 2/3 innings. 
Seattlti manager Lou Piniclla was ejBcted in the third by first-base umpire Travis Katzenmeier for arguing a checked-swing strikeout on David Bell. 
Piniella has be(ln ejected five times this s1rnson. all since July 25. 
Nomar Gurciaparra went 1­fnr-4 and finishntl the series 8-for-1 (,, raising his league­leading average lo .:{:i3. 
Varitflk's 16th honrnr of tlw season pul Boston ahead in the second. 
But Seattle tied the score in the fifth when Huss Davis walked. advanced on Dan Wilson ·s grounder and scorecl from sflcond when Hyan .Jackson hit a ball to first baseman Miko Stanley, who booted it for an error. 
lluskey's doubln in tlrn sixth followed Stanley's singln. Davis bit an HBI singlri in tlrn bottom half. 
Rangers 8, White Sox 6 
Todd Zeile hit his sixth career grand slam in a fiv11­run first inning as the Texas Hangers beat the Chicago White Sox in the opener of a twi-night doubleheader. 
Hick llelling ( 13-7) took advantage of the early run support and won his seventh straighl decision. Tim Whitn Sox lost for the sixth time in seven games. 
Helling allowed thrne hits ovnr the first six innings before running into trouble in a three run seventh. lie gave up four runs and seven hits in 6 2-3 innings. 
John Wettcland pitched tlrn ninth for his 38th save. 
Luis Alicea and Ivan Rodriguez opened the 11rst for Texas with singles off Jim Parque. 
/\licea scored from third when Mark Johnson commit­ted a passed ball on a third strike to Juan Gonzalnz. 
Parque hit Hafael Palmeiro with a pitch to load the bases and Zeile follownd with a drive over the center-field wall for his 21st homnr and first grand slam or the year. 
Zeile is I 2-for-22 with tlw bases loaded. 
Hoyce Clayton·s fift.h homer leading off tlrn second made it 6-0 as the Hangers conlinund their recent power display. Texas has 17 homers in its last six games. 
After Chris Singleton's 13th homer in the fifth to rnducn thP deficit to 6-1, Hodrigunz hit a two-run double to make it 8-1. 
In the seventh, Carlos Len's solo homnr. Paul Konerko's run-scoring double and Craig Wilson's llBI single got the White Sox within 8-4 and knocked out llclling. 
Chicago added two runs in thn eighth when Liu Hodrigunz tripled and scorPd on Clayton 1-\rror. 
...
Konerko addtid a sacrificr1 11y. 
Parqun dropped his sixth straight decision, allowing night runs and seven hits in 5 1/3 innings. 
CLUB INFO MEETINGS 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS 1uesday, Septemher 7, 1999 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

Astros' Lima is National League's first 19-game winner 
Ken Caminiti hit his first triple the Marlins had the worst groundout in the bottom half. July 29 trade.
Associated Press 

since 1996 and scored on record in baseball at 54-108, a Mike Lowell, who was 3-for-5, The A's rallied to 8-7 on solo
PHILADELPHIA 
Derek Bell's RBI single to cut year after winning the World hit an HBl single in the eighth home runs in the eighth by
Jose Lima became the 
it to 4-1. Caminiti was decoyed Series. off Mike Maddux. Den Grieve and Olmedo Saenz,
National League's first 19­
and slowed down while After rain delayed the start but Clark then homered in the 
game winner Monday night as 
approaching third, flopping of the game by 2 hours, 26 top of the ninth to givo Detroit
Tigers 9 Athletics 7

pinch-hitter Russ Johnson hit 
awkwardly into the bag. minutes. Luis Caslillo led off a two-run cushion.
Karim Garcia hit a tiebreak­
a three-run homer in the sixth 
Matt Mieske doubled off the with a double off Ismael Todd Jones worked the ninth
ing home run in the seventh
to give the Houston Astros a 6­
center-field wall to make it Valdes (9-13) and scored on for his 24th save.
5 comeback victory over the inniug and Tony Clark home­
second-and-third, and Tony Alex Gonzalez's double. Oakland moved in front 5-3
red and doubled twice to drive
Philadelphia Phillies. 

Eusebio hit a two-run single to Bruce Avens' walk and Kevin when (;iambi led off t.he third
Johnson, pinch-hitting for in four runs as the Detroit
center to cut it to 4-3. Ricky Millar's single loaded the with his second homer and
Tigers beat the Oakland
Lima (19-7) with two on and 
Gutierrez walked before bases for Kutsay, who hit his career-high 28th of tlrn sea­
Athletics 9-7 Monday night.

three runs already in, hit a 1-1 
Johnson hit his first career eighth homer of the season for son. Stairs followed with his
pitch from Randy Wolf (5-7) Luis Polonia went 4-for-5
pinch homer. a 5-0 lead. Kotsay started in 33rd homer.
that barely cleared the wall in with a pair of RHls to help
The Phillies had second-and­right in place of Danny The Tigers tied it in the fifth
Detroit withstand five Oakland
left for a 6-4 lead. 

third with no outs in the sixth Bautista. who broke his nose on Polonia's run-scoring triple·
home runs, including two by
Lima allowed three earned 
and the bases loaded with no Saturday. and Clark's sacrifice fly, his 
runs and eight hits in five Jason Giambi, and gain a split
outs in the seventh and scored Brian Meadows (11-14) third HBI of the night.
innings. He struck out two and of the four-game series. .
only one nm. Alex Arias' field­allowed four runs and six hits Garcia put the Tigers back in
Oakland ·s second loss to
walked one as the Astros 
er's choice groundnut ;,cored in five innings, and Antonio front when he led off the sev­
Detroit in as many days
maintained a 2 1/2-game lead 
Kevin Jordan, who was hit by Alfonseca pitched the ninth for en th with his ninth homer,
over Cincinnati atop the NL dropped the A's to three 
a pitch from Brian Williams his 16th save in 19 chances chasing Olivares. Damion
Central. games behind front-running
leading off the seventh, to Mondesi, who had his 13th Easley added an RBI single off
Boston in the AL wild-card
Billy Wagner pitched a per­
make it 6-5. multihomer game, his fifth this reliever Chad Harville.
race. The Hed Sox, who took
fect ninth for this 34th save in 
Doug Glanville led off the season, hit a solo homer in the Olivares trailed 3-0 before
37 chances. three of four in Seattle. open a
eighth with a double into the second and a two-run drive getting the game's first out.
two-game series in Oakland on
The Phillies, battered by a 
right-field corner against Jay off Dennis Springer in the Polonia led off with a single,
Tuesday night.

major league-record 14 
Powell, but was thrown out eighth, giving him 28 homers Drad Ausmus was hit by a
homers in the last two games Dave Borkowski {1-4) picked
trying to stretch it into a triple this season. pitch and Clark doubled them
against the Reds, have lost 10 up his first major league win 
on a relay from Bell to Craig Kotsay threw out Devon home. Easley followed with an
of 11 and 21 of 28. with 2 1/3 scoreless innings in
Biggio to Caminiti. White at the plate trying to HBI single.
relief of Jeff Weaver, who
Wolf allowed only one homer 
score on Eric Young's flyout Oakland pulled to 3-2 in its
before a pitiful Labor Day allowed five runs and eight 
Marlins 8 Dodgers 6 later in the inning. half of' the first. when Hich
crowd of 12,223, but it was hits in 3 2/3 innings.
Eric Karros' 31st homer Becker singled and Giambi
the Mark Kotsay hit the first Omar Olivares (13-10) went
pulled the Dodgers to 5-2 in connected one out later for his
grand slam of his career as six-plus innings and allowed
decisive hit of the game. The 
the third, but rookie Preston 100th career homer.
23-year-old left-hander the Florida Marlins overcame six runs on eight hits, leaving
Wilson hit a 464-foot horner in The A's evened tho score at
a pair of Haul Mondesi homers after surrendering Garcia's
allowed six runs and six hits in 
the bottom half. 3-all on Randy Velarde's run­
six innings, walking four and and hung on to beat the Los homer leading off the seventh.
Pinch-hitter Jose Vizcaino scoring single. Garcia saved a
striking out four. He allowed Angeles Dodgers 8-6 Monday The loss was Olivares' first
hit a two-run single off run with a strong throw from
only one hit in the first five night. after winning five straight
Springer in the sixth as Los right field to home, getting
Florida (55-82) surpassed its decisions since coming to
innings before falling apart. 
Angeles closed to 6-4. Saenz trying to score.
wins total last season, when Oakland from Anaheim in a
With one out in the sixth, 
Kevin Millar had an RBI 





Tuesday, September 7,=1=9::-:9-::-9=-=======~====:-================Ti='h=e=O=b=se=,v=e=r.
==S=P==O=R==T=S============================================p=a=ge:=2=1= 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Cubs lose to Reds despite Sosa's 58th home run 
ninth for his 19th save in 26 games behind first-place Atlanta homer in two games as the hits and four runs in seven chancns. in the NL East and four games Atlanta Braves bnat the St. Louis innings.ClllCAGO 
The Heds' two-day power ahead of Cincinnati in the wild­Cardinals 4-l Monday night. The Cardinals scored in the 
S:unmy Sosa hit his majur 
surge against the Phillies im:lud­r.ard race. The Braves, who had lost two second on singles by Adam lcagun-loading 58th !Jome run ed nine homers in a 22-3 victory San Francisco dropped 6 1/2 straight, maintained a 2 1/2 -Kennedy and Castillo and a sac­but tlrn Cincinnati Heds got a Saturday. Their 15 homers over games behind idle Arizona. game lead in the NL East over rifice fly by Joe McEwing.
lhrno-run homer from Dmitri 
threfl straight games tied Lhc NL which leads the NL West. the New York Mets. New York Young and boal tlrn Chicago rncord they nstablishfld Friday Rogers' home winning streak beat San Francisco 3-0. 
Rockies 5, Expos 3 ­
Cubs 6-3 Monday. through Sunday at Philadelphia. dates to June 28, 1997. and is Maddux (18-6) allowed three 
Dante Bichette hit his 29th
Sosa pulled four homers ahead 
The major league record for the longest since Frank Viola hits, one run, no walks and 
homer and Pedro Astacio hit aof Mnrk Mc(;wiro wilh a long 
musl home runs in three straight won 19 straight at Minnesota in struck out seven in his third 
two-run triple to lead the
snlo shot in tlw third off .Juan games is 16 by Boston in 1977; 1987-88. The streak spans three complete game of the season. He Colorado Rockies over Montreal,
(;u,1111111 (5-2l that landed on 
the mark for four straight games teams: the Yankees, Oakland got 16 outs on grounders and 
the Expos· fourth straight loss.
Wavnlancl Avnnuc. Sosa. six 
is 18, shared by Boston (1977) and the Mets. there was only one outfield 
Astacio (15-10) allowed threeganws a!wad of t.lw pacti of his and 0,lkland (19%). He pitched out of two minor putout. 
runs -two earned -and eighth6-ho111or season of a y1mr ago, Thny wnuld have had another jams. After a two-out double by After allowing a one-out single hits in eight-plus innings, win­also walked and slrll(:k out Monday, but Grng Vaughn's long Santangelo in the sixth, Rogers to Alberto Castillo in the third ning for the fifth time in six deci­twice. Ile rwnds 12 honwrs in his 
drive to left in the fourth was threw a r.alled third strike past inning, the four-time Cy Young 
sions. After Astacio gavn up afinal 2(1 ganms to Lin McGwire's 
held up by the wind before Bill Mueller. winner retired the last 2:~ bat­
pair of hits in the ninth, Daverncord. Glenallen Hill leaped into the ivy In the seventh, Kent had a ters. 
Veres finished for his 28th save,
Cinr.innali remained !'our 
to pull the ball down. one-out infield single and Ellis Maddux, who has won 12 of 
allowing an RBI single to Hyanga11ws !whim.I Now York in the 
Cincinnati scored in the first Burks followed with a walk, but his last 13 starts with one no­
McGuire.
NI. wild-card men The Hods 
on Young's two-out single. Mark Rogers got J.T. Snow to fly out decision since June 25, hasn't 
Astacio struck out eight,
h1\gan lhc day 2 1/2 games Grace hit a sacrifice fly in the and Rich Aurilia on a liner to lost since July 21. He has low­including Wilton Guerrnro -hisbehind llouston in tlw NL bottom half. and .Johnson had an third. ered his ERA from 5.02 on May 
seventh victim of the game -
Cmnral. 
HBI grounder in the seventh. G.iants starter Li van 21 to 3.36. 
leading off the eighth for his
Tlw Hcds. coming off a homer Hernande;,;, 0-5 against the Mets The Atlanta right-hander also 
1,000th career strikeout. lie
bi11gi• in l'hiladPlphia where they this season, left before the third handled Mark McGwire, who
Mets 3, Giants O walked one.
snt a major lnaguc rncord with inning with tightness in his rib went O-for-4, and is stuck on 54
Kenny Rogers pitched a four· Trailing 1-0, Todd Helton sin•!4 mmr two games Saturday an<l cage. He was replaced by Mark home runs. four behind
hitttir to win h.is 18th straight gled to lead off the second and,
Sundav. S('ort•d fiw tinws in the Gardner (4-10), who pitched four Chicago's Sammy Sosa, who hit
home decision, leading the New two ouLc; later, advanced to third
lil'th, ,;appt·d by Young's shot to innings, allowing one run, one a sulu shot earlier Monday and
York Mets over the San as shortstop Geoff Blum droppedlnl"l-cnnter against a 15 mph hit and three walks. has 58 homers.
Francisco Giants. Henry Bianco's popup to short
wind. Henderson doubled leading off Jones, who hit a pair of home
Rogers {4-0) struck out a sea­left field for an error.
Cincinnati's big fifth began the sixth, took third on a runs off Randy Johnson in
son-high nine -one short of his Astacio followed with a sinking
wlwn cnnifir fi1dd1:r Lance grounder and scored on Piazza's Sunday's 7-5 loss to Arizona, hit 
career high -and walked one liner that got past center fielder
Johnson lost .Jason l.armi's ny flyout to center. his 38th in the eighth inning for
in his sixth career shutout. his Rondell White and rolled to the
ball in thn sun and it landed for Darryl Hamilton hit a leadoIT a 4-1 lead. He also singled in a
first since Sept. 5, 1998, for wall for a triple. He scored when 
a double. Cuzman walked and, single off Rich Rodriguez in the run in the third inning off
Oakland against Tampa Bay. Blum's relay to third went into
aft,ir a sacrifin\ Barry Larkin hit seventh and Hey Ordonez Garrett Stephenson {5-1).
Rogers. who has two of the Mets' the Hockies' dugout for his sec­11 two-nm doubl,i. S1rnn Casey walked on four pitches with one Gerald Williams led off the
three rnmplete games this sea­ond error of the inning.
also walkod and Young conner.t­
out. Hogers sacrificed, and Atlanta first with a solo home
son, allowed two hits each to Jeff Montreal committed three
Pd off Micah Bowie I 1-5) for his Hendr,rson singled off Julian run, his 13th and the Braves
Kent and F.P. Santangelo. errors in the game. increasing itsI I Lh horrn•r. 
Tavarez to drive in both runners. added another run in the sixth
Mike Piazza hit a sacrifice fly major league-leading total to · 
(;uzman. making his first on singles by Hyan Klesko and
in the sixth, and Hickey 142.
canH1r a1>p1)arance against the Andruw Jones and a sacrifice fly
1lenderson had a two-run single Braves 4, Cardinals 1 Bichette made it 5-1 with a
Cubs, won for the lif'th time in six by Eddie Perez. 
in the sevenlh as the \1ets won Greg Maddux won his eighth drive to left that just cleared the
starts. allowing thrnc runs and · Stephenson, who had given up
for the 10th time in 13 games. consecutive decision and fence as Orlando Merced tried to
~ix hits in sPvcn innings. only one earned run in each of
New York began the day 2 1/2 Chipper Jones hit his third climb the 12-foot wall. 
Danny c;rav.is pitchnd the his last six starts. allowed nine 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September 7, 1999 
NFL 
Browns get three from waiver wire 
Associated Prrss 
BEREA. Ohio 
The Cleveland Browns claimed three players off the waiver wire Monday, including 1997 first-round draft pick Jon Harris, a defensive end who played two ·seasons with Philadelphia. 
The Browns also claimed tight end Randy Palmer and defensive back Omar Stoutmire. 
Harris was traded by the Eagles to Green Bay on Thursday and the Packers waived him on Sunday. The University of Virginia product was the 25th overall selection in 1997. 
The 6-foot-7, 300-pound 
MLB 

Fernandez 
in recovery 
Associated Press 
FLORIDA 
Marlins right-handed pitch­er Alex Fernandez cut short his comeback season Sunday preferring to strengthen his surgically repaired right shoulder for next season. 
Fernandez. 30, missed the entire 1998 season while recovering from rotator cuff surgery that was performed Oct. 29, 1997, following the Marlins run to the World Series championship. 
Fernandez finished this sea­son on a high note Saturday night, tossing allowing two hits and four runs in 7 2-3 innings of a 6-4 win over the San Diego Padres. Fernandez also Nt his third home run of the season Saturday. 
He winds up 7-8 with a 3.38 ERA. In 24 starts, he pitched 141 innings, allowing 41 walks and striking out 91. 
'Tm proud of my season," Fernandez said. "and of the organization for supporting me in. my comeback. This will help me come back stronger !'or next year." 
Fernandez has been on a 100-pitch count all season. He spent two separate stints on the disabled list, once with soreness in lhe shoulder and the other time because of a pulled groin. 
He will remain with the learn and not be placed on the DL. He missed one start in early August after getting a cortisone shot in his shoulder. 
Fernandez and Marlins' 
management mutually agreed 
tu shut him down at this time. 
"Alex has accomplished quite a bit in his comeback this year and our team doc­tors feel it's best he rest his shoulder," Marlins manager .John Boles said. "lle's had soreness after every start which is normal from what the doctors tell us about this type of rehabilitation process. We want Alex to be ready to go for next year." 
Clearly, the Marlins place in 
the standings and being out of 
the playoff picture played a 
part in the decision. 

Harris was slowed by an illness in his rookie season and lost 36 pounds. He came back last year to start four games and make 50 tackles. 
"Harris is a big, lanky guy who does a good job of' getting off blocks." Browns coach Chris Palmer said. "There are a lot of expectations when you're a No. 1 pick. Sometimes a change of scenery helps." 
Randy Palmer, a rookie from Texas A&M-Kingsville, "is a guy we looked at as a free agent after the draft, but Oakland beat us to it." the coach said. 
"He is very similar to the other tight ends we have (Jrv Smith, Mark Campbell and Ryan Collins). It will he inter-
NFL 
esting to watch the competition there." 
Stoutmire, a seventh-round draft pick of the Dallas Cowboys in 1997, started 12 games for them las.t season. 
"He is a good special teams player," Palmer said. 
Palmer said the Browns arc !wavy at defensive line (with 11 players) and thin at both run­ning back {fourl and offensive line .(nine}, where he expects to add some players. 
The Browns reduced their roster to 55 by waiving wide receiver Jermaine Hoss. 
"You need the second-line guys to play special teams, and Hoss was OK on special teams hut not as good as the other guys we kept," Palmer said. 
Arizona makes its final roster public 
Associated Press TEMPE, Ariz. The Arizona Cardinals claimed two wide receivers and two defensive tackles off the waiver wire Monday and released four players, includ­ing outside linebacker Tony McCombs, who started 13 games last season. Also released were offen­sive lineman Allen Degraffenreid and wide receivers Tony Hamler and Chad Carpenter. The Cardinals claimed wide receivers Mar Tay Jenkins, who had been cut by Dallas. and Mac Cody, who had been waived by St. Louis. They also picked up defensive tackles Corey Sears, who had been waived by St. Louis, and Angel Rubio, who was cut by San Francisco. Jenkins was the Cowboys' sixth-round pick this year out of Nebraska-Omaha. Earlier Monday, coach Vince Tobin announced he had replaced three starters for Sunday's season opener against the Philadelphia Eagles. Terry Hardy will start at tight end in place of Johnny 
McWilliams, Matt Joyce will start ahead of Anthony Clement at offensive left tackle and Zack Walz will be the right outside linebacker in place of Patrick Sapp. 
Michael Pittman moved ahead of Mario Bates as backup running back behind Adrian Murrell. Bates will remain the short-yardage running back and wiil return kickoffs. Pittman beat out rookie David Boston as the first-string punt returner. 
Tobin also welcomed offon­sive left guard Chris Dishman and right guard Lester Holmes back to prac­tice on Monday. Dishman had been out since early in the training camp after undergoing arthroscopic surgery on his right elbow. Holmes is recovering from facial lacerations sustained in a car accident that crushed the right arm of teammate Ernest Dye. 
.Joyce, who had been play­ing guard in Dishman's absence, moves to tackle largely because Clement, who missed virtually all of his rookie season last year with back surgery, has had trouble doing his job with a broken bone in his left wrist. 
Bettis may not be healthy for opener 
Associated Press 

PITTSBURGH 
The Pittshurgh Steelers' offense, as listless during the preseason as it was at the end of last season, may not have a completely healthy Jerome 
Bettis for Sunday's season· 
opener at Cleveland. 

Bettis, limited to less than a full week of practice during training camp by a left knee injury, was listed as qucs­tion ab Ie 
o n 
Monday 

by coach B i I I Cowher. Bettis' sta­tus will be updated depending on how much he 
practices. 

"I want to sec him go back­to-back days," Cowher said. 
Bettis, who has rushed fur more than 1,000 yards in all three of his seasons with the 
Steelers, resumed practicing a week ago following his sec­ond arthroscopic knee surgery in seven months. But he backed off from contact work late last week when the sore­ness returned. 
Even if Bettis enjoys a pain­free week and is cleared to play in the first Steelers­Browns game since 1995. Cowher acknowledged it is unrealistic to expect the five­time 1,000-yard rusher to be in top game condition. 
Bettis has had no contact work since a 21-3 loss to Jacksonville on Dec. 28 com­pleted the Steelers' season­ending five-game losing streak. The streak is tied with San Diego's as the longest in the NFL going into the season. 
"You can't help recognize that if you don't play a game in the preseason and haven't had a lot of practice, you·re not going to be at the top of" your game," Cowher said. 
"It's not done in the NFL. The only player I can remem-ber doing it is Dcion Sanders, who went 2-f'or-3 (in baseball) and came in here returning kicks and making intercep­tions. It was amazing." 

Because game speed is so different from practice speed, it is difficult for an injured player to rngain his timing and instincts just by practicing. Cowher said. 
"I've talked to Jerome about it. It's a repetition thing. Ill'-'s rusty now and he's the lirst to admit it," Cowher said. "He isn't where he needs to be. But it's a 16-wtrnk season and il's important to keep that in per• spcctive." 
Even if Bettis plays, backup Hichard lluntley and rookie . Amos Zernoue will likely get most of the carries Sunday night against thr, expansion Browns. Huntley was Br.ttis' backup last year until his fum­bling caused Cowher to lose confidence in him late in thri season. 
Zereoue. a third-round draft pick from West Virginia. led the Steelers with I70 yards on 43 carries during the prnsr.a­son. 
"You can't expect Jerome, off his preseason work, to be at the top of his game," Cowher said. "It is going to take a cou­ple of' weeks and it would be foolish to expect it to be 
otherwise." 
Bettis' absence clearly affoct­cd the Steelers' offense during a 1-3 preseasnn that saw·the starters go scoreless ovor thren quarters in thn final two games. 
There is suspicion that new offensive coordinator Kevin Gilbride held hack part of the­offense for the Browns, espe­cially many or the downfield passing plays that have returned to the Steelers' play book since former coordinator Ray Sherman departed. 
But an intricato offense that requires the quartorback and receivors to adjust on the ny and mad dofenses identically cannot always be installed and perfected on the practice field. Cowher said. 




.JERlJSALEfVI INFORMATION MEETING 
With Fr. Da, id Burrell, Julliet Mayinja. Assistant Director International Study Programs 
'TUESDAY SEPt-EMBER 7, 1999 
4:45 P.M. -5:45 P.M. I19 DEBARTOLO 
ALL ARE \VELCOME! 
'luesday, September 7, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 

NHL 
Hextall announces hockey retirement 
Associated Press 
VOOIHIEES, N.J. 

Hon llextall und~rstood all too dnarly. IIn is :15 years old. and it was limn to leave hockny. 
Tlw play11r who helped srmd Philadnlphia to lhe Slanhiy Cup Finals 12 ycars ago, when hn was thn league's best goalie, rntirnd Monday and will bPconw a sc11ut for tlw rlyers. 
'Thorn's IL million things in a bowl Urnl I kind of gl'inded tugnthnr and it all canu1 out pointing to the foct that iL was tim11 to move on," llcxtall said during a news conforcncc at Lhn Flyors' training camp. 
"l just told Llwrn upstairs that I wanted to play this yr.ar. But you know with my body aging and all the (other) factors, most things pointed to the l'acl lh,1t it WllS limn." 
lli1xtall said hP had bn1\n ofl'tirPd a dnal lo play wil11 Cnlgary. but drns,i the jnh with tlw Flyers. 
IIP cited ongoing hip prob­lems and l'amily concerns for not wan ling lo leave l'hiladrlphia. 
llnxtall was released by tho Hyers this summer after play­ing backup all season. Ile was not dainrnd in tlrn expansion draf't and his retirement was PXpm:tnd. 
"I didn't want lo bn a guy who kind of hung on," lw said. 
Gn1wral managPr Hob Clarke crndiL1\d Ikxtal! with strong passing skills that paved the way for such outstanding goal­tenders as Colorado's Patrick Hoy and Ncw Jersey's Martin Brodeur. 
"Hon probably changed the position of goaltonding in the National llockey League. lie was the first one that came in and handled the puck better than most of our defenscmen," Clarkn said. 
The team waived l lextall July I, and sincfl no team claimed him the Flyers must buy out the final year of his contract. 
He was 10-7-4 with a 2.53 goals-against average last sea­son and has a 296-214-69 career record. 'the Atlanta Thrashers, wanting younger and less expensive players, did not select him in the expansion draft. 
/\ 13-year veteran, Hextall !Jacked up John Vanbicsbrouck last yoar, overtaking Bernie Panrnt for tlrn tt>am lead with 240 victories. Hextall also isNo. 1 on the Flyers' career lists for games, playoff games and play­off victories. 
He was the starting goalie for the Wales Conference in the 1988 All-Star game. 
Ilextall was drafted by the Flyers in 1982, then tradud to Quebec in the seven-playflr deal in which the Flyers acquired Eric Lindros on June 20, 1992. 
llextall was later traded to thl) Nnw York Islanders, playing one season before being dealt back to the Flyers in 1994. 
CLUB SPORTS 

Water polo team ·falls 
Special to The Observer 
•The men's water polo club dropped its opener Saturday to defending club national champion and No. 1-ranked Michigan, 15-8. 
On the strength of a four­goal burst, the Irish closed within 11-8 midway through the fourth quarter. The Wolverines rallied, however, to score and seal the victory. 
The Irish B team fared much better, thrashing Michigan B, 13-4. 
This weekend, the club will travel to Knoxville, Tenn., to participate in the University of Tennessee's Hillbilly Classic. 
Associated Press 
Mike Mussina is on the road to recovery from a bruised right shoulder and has 
been penciled in as the Baltimore Orioles' starting pitcher Sept. 14 against Oakland. 
Mussina (15-7) hasn't pitched since Aug. 22, when he was hit on the shoulder by a line drive off the bat of Chicago's Brook Fordyce. He's still sporting an ugly bruise, but hasn't written off the possi­bility of returning this season. 
"He threw yesterday lightly oIT the mound. I'm not• saying he could start ... but perhaps he could be ready for that first game against Oakland," 

•On 
Saturday, the Irish field hockey club will host Wheaton College at 11 a.m. on Stepan field. 

•The 
cricket club, which reached the finals of the first annual lllini cricket tourna­ment at the University of Illinois, will play in the finals on Saturday. · 


The game comp!fites the club's month-long tourna­ment. It posted victories over Springfield and St. Louis and will meet Illinois-Urbana in the finals. 
•The ultimate Frisbee club will compete in Naperville, Ill., in the Chigago Tune-Up. 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Mussina returns to pitch 
Orioles manager Hay Miller said Monday. "That's tenta­tive." 
Two other starters with far less experience, Sidney Ponson and Jason Johnson, might skip a turn in September. Ponson, 22, has gone five straight starts without a win and Johnson has pitched nearly 100 innings. 
"I'd like to give Ponson a pause. I'd like to do the same thing with Johnson after his next start," Miller said. "Just give them a week and let them freshen up. Both kids are young and have high futures. It would be pretty silly to keep popping them out there every five days if it looks like they're wearing down." 
Mussina isn't the only pitcher still hurting after getting hit by a ball. Reliever Arthur Rhodes bruised the index finger on his left hand in that Aug. 22 game against Chicago and is unavail­able. 
"Indefinite was the word I got yesterday. I've been short the last two days," Miller said. "I keep going in and asking (trainer Hichie Bancells) and he keeps saying day-lo-day.... Indefinite is a little longer than day-to-day, I think." 


Football 
continued from page 28 
this team. [His loss] takes uway a chunk of our explo­siveness, but he'll bounce back." 
With Gctheral! out, fresh-

m a n 
Ju Ii us Jones is expected to fill in on spe­c i a I teams returns. 
T h e I r i s h returned to practice Monday, switch­ing its focus from the Michigan loss to this week­end's showdown. 
The Irish reviewed tapes of the Michigan game before taking to the practice (ield. 
"I have tremendous respect for the Purdue foot­ball team, but we're much more concerned with the Irish right now than we are with the Boilermakers," head coach Bob Davie said. "I think we all see thn poten­tial of this football team, but we have to eliminate our mistakes." 
Davie and his staff repeat­edly stressed minimizing mistakes. 
In Saturday's late-game debacle the Irish were flagged for illegal celebra­tion, a late hit personal foul and they failed lo make a first down on the final play of the game. 
"Our biggest problem is ourselves right now," offen­sive coordinator Kevin Rogers said. 
Davie, however, was still upbeat about Monday's practice and the team remained positive. 
"I like the attitude of our team," Davie said. "Losing is hard, but the most impor­tant thing is how you bounce back from that and how you respond to that and I think this team will como back strong. 
"[You usually feel good about( Monday practice," Davie added. "You don't practice that long; you don't practice in full pads. So the rnal test will be tomorrow." 
.. 

For information, call 1-8041 
NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C. Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C. 
ALL CONVERSATIONS ARE PRIVATE AND CONFIDENTIAL. 
OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS­INFORMATION MEETINGS 
SANTIAGO, CHILE PROGRAM 
Cam1en Nanni Student Returnees 
Wednesday September 8 1999 
120 UeBartolo 
4:45 PM 

WednesdaJ' September 15 1999 South Dining Hall Hospitality Room 4:45 PM 
... 
IT'S NOT TOO LATE TO APPLY FOR SPRING 2000. 
page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September 7, 1999 
VOLLEYBALL 

Senior captain Leffers leads Irish in teamwork 
.. 
''This is my last year, so "Everyone has to contribute Bv MATT OLIVA for us to be successful," she
obviously I want to go out
Spores W rircr added. I{ we are playing well giving it all I have. But I then evervone catches on lire, As the Notre Dame women ·s would like to think that but on the contrary if we have volleyball team br-gins anotlrnr a sub-par performance it is
all my teammates would
sPason. significant changes hard to pick everyone up. It's ha,e taken place and senior have thal outlook el'ery all a team concept. If everyone captain Mary Leffers is a key year, as 1 have. " is playing well we will do well, part nf the new Irish outlook. if we am playing bad, then we 
The Irish arc concentrating will do bad. We are going to on being morn team oriented Mary Leffers win and lose as a team." and setting specific short-term senior volleyball captain Having a new outlook and goals this year. The focus has stronger focus this year, the 
switched from winning games Irish hope to improve on their
all time hitting percentage al
and winning the conference past successes.
. 280. 
title to executing well in prac­One challenge this year will
Heading into this season she 
tice and being more time effi­be to avoid the big losses in the
owned 34 career matches with 
cient. Big East. The Irish am the high­
.300-plus hitting percentage, 11 
As thev move forward into the est ranked team in the confer­
of which were .500-plus.
1999 season, they will rrdy on ence and have won the Big East 
·Leffers became only the sixth
their experienced players to championship in years past.
Irish player to surpass 400 
hold the team together and They must not, however.
career blocks when she tallied 
maintain a sharp focus. overlook their Big East oppo­
her 401st block in the 1998 Big
"This year we have a different nents.
East championships against
outlook," Leffers said. "We are "It will be a challenge not to
Georgetown.
more process oriented, having overlook the teams In the Rig
"This is my last year. so obvi­
daily goals and practice goals. East," said Leffers. "We have
ously I want to go out giving it
We want to he more efficient won it before, but it is different
all I have," said Leffers. "But
during practice and off the this year, a challenge to the
I would like to think that all my
court as well. team. Last year we suffered big
teammates would have lhal
"In the past we have focused losses to West Virginia and.
outlook every year, as I have. 
on winning games and we had Connecticut and we cannot let
So as far as being a senior, my
capable teams, but that strate­that happen again.
outlook is the same as it has 
gy didn't work. Now I believe "We do not have any confer­
been, but there is more of a 
that we are more capable this ence goals set yet, but we want
sense of urgency."
year because our concentration to win the Big East," she said.
The Irish return a veteran
is better." "Most importantly, though, we
club this season. including five
After being limited much of cannot look past our conference
starters. Despite the many
last year by a knee injury, the opponents. We need to do well
familiar names, the approach is
6-4 middle blocker will lead the to get an automatic bid to the
different this year.
Irish this year. both on and ofT NCAA tournament at the end of
"That is a major difference
the court. the season."
between this year and last 
Leffers was selected first 
year," Leffers said. "We play as 
team all-Big East in 1997 and is 
a unit this year rather than look
currently third on Notre Dame's to our standouts. 

JOHN DAILYfThe Observer 
Senior Mary Leffers is third on the all-time Irish hitting percentage list. She also has more than 400 career blocks. Leffers received Big East Player of the Week honors last week. 

all players with a .464

Volleyball 
attacking percentage. Boylan had 43 assists forcontinued from page 28 the Irish. "We out-blocked them and

said. "We had to be up men­
also saw a couple of thingstally, especially with it being that our team needs to shorethe third game of the week­up, but overall we saw thatend, and we were. We hung 

we are able to compete,"

really tough in games one and 
Brown said. "They were

two, and had to make sure not 
ranked sixth heading into theto take it easy in game three.· 

weekend, and will probably

Overall, this match was a big 
be number two or three whenstep for us." 
the rankings come out

Against Northwestern, the 
[today)."
Irish put Notre Dametogether a 
will meet
victory in 

"We had to be up Pacific again in
three games, 

mentally. especially regular-season
15-8, 15-9, play on Nov.

and 15-8. with it being the third 27.Boylan had 
game ofthe weekend. "What is
match highs 

and we were. " nice is. that we
in digs and 
get to play
assists. 
them again,"

Saturday. Debbie Brown 
Brown said.
Notre Dame 

Notre Dame volleyball coach "We'll be
dropped three 
able to judgeclose games 
our team'sto eventual 
progress when

Shamrock Classic winner 
we face them the last week ofPacific. 
the season."

The Irish were knocked off 
Irish players Boylan and

15-10, 15-10, 15-9; but stayed 
Leffers were named to the

close in all three games. 
Shamrock Invitational All

Leffers had a big match with 
Tournament team.

15 kills and 8 blocks. She led 
Elsa Stegemann of Pacific was named tournament MVP. 

-, 
Tuesday, September 7, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 25 
U.S. OPEN 
Serena Williams defeats Spaniard 
Anodatrd Pn:u Nl!W YOllK SPnirrn Williams flexed lwr rippling muscles as shn slPpp11d up lo SHrVll thfl li~1al game ag1ti11st Conchita Martirwz, showing llw weary Spaniard and 1iv1iryone else Uw strnnl{th slw had IHft. Closing out lrnr higgest win in II major to11r1rnmm1l at the 
U.S. Opnn Oil Monday. Williams took a mo11wnt to JHlN at M artilrnz st~rnding far bdiind t!Hi bas1d111e, then promptly S!lrvn~l tw.r 12th a_ce far 0111 or Mart11wz rnach !or a 4-1,, £,-2, (,-2 victory. 
At 17. Williams had thn mwrgy to stay with Martirrnz through long rallins and lhr1rn tough s1•ts. to kcnp going afl1\r l11lr no mallnr how hot and muggy thP w,~ath!•r had 
bfl('OTllf', 
.Ids roan•rl incessantly. the wind bl1iw hot air through Urn starliurn, and thn sun burnPd 1hrougli tlw douds. 
It was tlw kind of day that wPars down play,\rs, distracts tlwm, makns tlwm lightlwad­f'd. hut Williams didn't Int any or that hollu•r h1•r. 
W iI Ii a 111 s. sI\ P c!P d No. 7. p I ayPd sloppily at Li !1rns, whal'king hal'khands wildly, missing loo many ,•asy shots. llul slH• 1•1icl11r!'d through a 1'0111 hi II al ion of' !W rsi Sl{\ nCP a11d ta!Pnl and youthl'ul vitali­1y t D n•ac h hPr fi rsl ,~rnjo r q11ar!Prfi11al with llw victory oYl'r No. Il, MartinPZ. 
Now anollwr oldPr drnmpi­011 stands 'in Williams' way, No. 4 Monica SP!ns, who won tlw U.S. OpPn for lhP first tinw i11 l 1)CJ I wl11i11 siw was tlw sam1• ag1• Williams is today.· 
Williams isn't inlimidall'd playing anyorw -slw's lwat­
"Three sets today. a day and a halfoff. he'll be ready all right. I have no intention ofmaking any further dreams come true for him." 
Andre Agassi professional tennis player 
en virtually ull Lim top players -and sho's not worried about Sel1~s. whom she's bcat­1111 in both their matches. 
"I lovP playing Monica," said Williams, who has served more acns than any woman so far in tho tournament. 
"Wlrnnove r we play, it· s always vnry int1msc and very l'un," added Williams. "I don't havc anything tn (()SC. She's ranked ·higlrnr than what I am. fl gots m,i moro psydrnd up and pumped UJl. I timd. lo play lwtlnr. I'm really lookmg forward to ii..'' 
Tl11)ir malchns haven't !)('en so much f'un for Scles, who lost to Williams nn carpet in Chicago lwo years ago and on tlw hardcourt of Key Biscayn11 this yPar on Williams' way to th!' i'inal slw lost to sister V1•nus. 
With tlw Williams sisters both in the quarters here, llrny'rn still Oil track t_o meet in a !'inal again -this ttnrn for one of tlrn biggm;t prizes in tennis. But botl1 have stiff competition hnfore that hap­1wns. 
S1d1!s looked impressive in rnaching the quarters with a 6-4. (i-:~ victory over Jennifer Capriati. 
Against Williams, Selos knows slrn'll ho facing "a lot 
of hard and fast balls" that 
will be tough to keep up 
with. 
"She covers morP. ground 
than I do at this point, today 
or lomorrow," Seles said. 
"From that point of view. 
she docs have the advan­
tage." 
That won't be the only 
hard-hitting match coming 
up. 
No. 5 Mary Pierce, who 
hits groundstrokes as crisply as any woman, also reached the qtiarters with a 6-3, 7-6 (8-(i) victory over Sabine Appelmans and will next play the winner of the match belween defending champion Lindsay Davenport and Julie II alard-Dcrngis. 
In men's play. No. 2 J\ndre J\gassi rolled into the quar­ters with a 6-4. 6-4. 6-3 victo­ry OVPr Arnaud C)P.ment; No. 3 Ycvgeny Kafelnikov downed Andrei Medvedev 7-6 {7-5), 6­1, 6-0; and Frenchman Nicolas Escude upset No. 10 Marcelo Hios 6-2, 6-3, 7-5. 
"I fell good about the way I stayed focused from start to finish," Agassi said. "I was making him earn everything he did win out there. I knew in llrn long run, I'd probably get the bPttcr of him." 
J\gassi n(~xl plays Escu~e. and promises not to take h11n lightly. 
"lln has a real good back­hand, a sneaky first serve," Agassi said. "He's obviously playing well, but I never would have guessed that he would have won in straight sets here (against Rios). Thrne sets today, a day and a half off, he'll be ready all righL I have no intention of making any further dreams come I.rue for him." 

Right now, there has never been a better t!me to be ~art ot Arthur Andersen. Creativity and innovation. Endurmg . personal and professional relationships. The freedom to build and grow. Credentials that are admired and sought out worldwide. Commitment. And great rewards. 
Whether you're interested in Assurance and Business . Advisory Services. Business Consulting, or Tax and Business Advisory Services, Arthur Andersen offers countless opportunities for making our world a part of your-s. 
Arthur Andersen All Service Line Open House 
Monday, September 12th• 7:00pm to 9:00pm At the Notre Dame Campus Center tor Continuing Educatiuon Education Auditorium 
Open to Notre Dame and St. Mary's students_interested in full-time employment with majors in Accountmg, Fmance, CAPP. CS, Economics. IE, ME, EE and MIS 
Please bring a current resume. 
ARTHUR 

ANDERSEN 
Helping In Ways You Never Imagined 
For more information, visit www.arthurandersen.com or forward your resume to: Arthur Andersen LLP, Attn: ND/Jl, 33 W. Monroe Street, MS02-02'. Chicago, IL 60603. FaK: 1312) 931·0284 Arthur Andersen LLP is an equal opportunity employer. 
WNBA 
Houston celebrates third WNBA title 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON 

Three for 10. 
The numbers said everything about the Houston Comets this season. They won their third straight WNBA title and dedi­cated it to Kim Perrot, the point guard who wore jersey No. 10 and died of brain can­cer last month. 
As the seconds ticked down in Sunday's championship game, Cynthia Cooper raised hor hands. She showed an index finger with her right hand and a fist with the other -the rnferee's signal for No. 10. 
Tears welled in the players' eyes and the sellout 
crowd of 
"The team has endured a Comets coach
16,285 
V a n

b P. g a n true test ofthe heart that 
Chancellor

chanting goes Jar beyond winning said. "three for 
another title." "This has 
Kim, three proven to b11
for Kim." 
one of thP

"This Lee Brown 
great tnams in

champi­
Houston mayor the history of 
onship was the hard one because of everything going on," forward Janeth Arca.in said. "It's been a very emotional season watching Kim fight her battle. We won this championship for her, and we know she was watching us today." 
Cooper had one of her worst shooting games Saturday. She went 1-for-10 and watched in disbelief as New York's Teresa Weatherspoon hit a 52-foot shot at the buzzer to give the Liberty a 68-67 victory and force the deciding game. 
The Comets and Cooper came back Sunday even more determined. Cooper and Sheryl Swoopes scored 20 of Houston's first 22 points and the Comets took a 33-25 half­time lead. 
Cooper finished with 24 points, including 13 of 15 free throws. 
"I was not going to go down 1-for-10, I was going to go down fighting f'or my team lo win u third championship," she said. 
When New York drnw to 38­31, the Comets took off with a 10-0 spurt to take control. Tina Thompson had seven of' the 10 points. 
"We have overcome the 
obstacles and all the things we were faced with all year." Thompson said. "So mayb!l this one will be a little more special because we won it /'or Kim. All the desire and passion and strength and toughness slrn brought lo this team, we used it (Sunday).'' 
The Comets finished the sea­son with the best record in Urn leaguo (26-6) for tho third straight season. They never lost morn than two straight games. 
New York's victory on Saturday was llouston's f'irst playoff home loss ever. 
"ThBse playnrs or ours, thoy stayed toul{h, they won it after thn most heartbrnaking loss I've ever been involved in," 
sports. J\nd 

this trophy is for Kim. w hosn heart and delormination will never be forgotten." 
Cooper won her third straight regular season scoring title and was the championship sPries most valuable player for the third straight year. 
It was an emotional grind all s1iason. Cooper lost her mother to cancer. Swoopes startnd tlrn season aftnr getting a divorce in tho offseason. 
· "I think it's especially swnnt with everything that this team has gone through, emotionally, mentally, all the pPrsonal things that we have all gone through, all the sacrifices we have had to make," Swoopns said. "Obviously, Kim not being here, that was very emo­tional." 
The Comets will share their victory with tlrn city of Ilouston during a downtown parad1: and rally Wndnnsday after­noon. llouston Mayor Lnn Brown will be thn host. 
"Our Ilouston Conrnts havP bnen through so much this season, and yet thny showed an unwavPring will lo win," Brown said in a .statenrnnt. "Tim team has nndurcd a true test of the heart that goes far beyond winning another title." 


Using Quality Carnuba Wax WE COME TO YOU AUTO APPEARANCE PROFESSIONALS since 1995 Michael Genetti (ND Student) 
(219) 634-3074 ONLY $49.00 
•Hand 
Wash and Dry Exterior Surfaces 

•Hund 
Wax and Hand Buff Painted surfaces 

•Ym:uum 
interior 


•Clean 
Windows IN and Out 

•Dress 
Tires, Bumpers & Dashboard 

•Clean 
Door Jambs 


•Clean 
Ashtrays aml Air Ven1s 




Recycle me. 
... 
" 
..... 
r-­
1 
I 
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September 7, 1999 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Short, Garcia lead team 
Irish to host Western Michigan 
By KERRY SMITH Spores Writer 

The Notre Dame men's soc­cer team looks to keep its streak alive when it faces Western Michigan tonight. 
Strong performances in the season's first two games pro­pelled the Irish to a 2-0-0 record going into their match up with the Broncos. 
Key contributions by fresh­men starters allayed some fears that inexperience might hurt the squad. 
"We knew going in that we had a good group of fresh­men and that they would have to play an important role on the team." head coach Mike Berticelli said. "We're very pleased with what the young players have done." 
Freshmen forwards pro­vided the Irish with the team's onl.y two goals this season -just enough to edge out Northwestern and Boston College. 
Rafael Garcia scored the game-winner in Notre Dame's season opener with Northwestern. 
"Rafael Garcia has gotten off to a very good start with a goal and an assist. He's been involved in both of our goals," Berticelli said. "Even more so, he's played a big role defensively -something that doesn't show up in the statistics." 
Erich Braun knocked in the goal to lift the Irish over Boston College. 
"Braun will start to come into his game," Berticelli said. ''Be's getting more com­fortable with the other play­er·s. As a front-runner, that's very important to the game." 
"We knew going in that we had a good group of freshmen and rhat they would have to play an important role on the team." 
Mike Bertlcelli 
men's soccer coach 

Returning players also played key roles in the two Irish wins. 
Goalie Gerick Short, for­ward Andrew Aris and Stephen Maio on defense con­sistently played well in the matches. 
"Gerick Short came up big in the BC game at the end for us and Andrew Aris has had a particularly good start," Berticelli said. "Stephen Maio has been big in the backfield. He's probably the hardest worker we have." 
Western Michigan comes off a lackluster 1998 cam­paign and has yet to register a win this season. At 0-3-0, the Broncos fell to Cleveland State, Wisconsin Green-Bay and Eastern Illinois. 
The Broncos do have some experience on their side, however, with eight starters and J 1 varsitv lettermen returning to the ·squad. 
Thev find defensive strength in senior co-captain and goalie Eric Pogue. One of the top goalies in the Mid­American conference, he has been the backbone of the Michigan defense. 
"Western Michigan has an· outstanding goalkeeper. I think one of the best in the country,'' Berticelli said. "Once we get behind the defense, it's not as if we're automatically going to score a goal." 
In 1998 -the most recent Notre Dame-Western Michigan meeting -Pogue helped hold the Irish to a 1-1 overtime tie. 
"The goalkeeper took a game that we should have won fairly easily and turned it into a situation where we got out with a tie," Berticelli said. "They are going to bat­tle, fight for every position, and are backed up by a quick and extremely talented goal­keeper," he added. 
Notre Dame holds a 8-2-2 record in its series with Western Michigan. The Irish have not dropped a game to the Broncos since 1981 and have never lost on home turf. 
Special to The Observer 

Notre Dame senior goal­
keeper Gerick Short and 
freshman midfielder Rafael 
Garcia earned this season's 
first Big East weekly honors. 
Short shared goalkeeper-of­
the-week honors with 
Rutgers' Jon Conway. and 
Garcia copped the league's 
roo kio-of-the-week-award. 
The two helped the Irish to 
shutout wins over 
Northwestern and 13oston 
College. 

Short, who had not seen 
action since midway 
throughthe 1996 campaign, 
started and played all 90 min­utes in both games to record the first two solo shutouts of his career. 
Against_ Northwestern, mak­ing his first starting appear­ance since 1995, he stopped two shots. In the win over Boston College, Short regis­tered a career-tying live saves in the game on eight Eagles' shots. 
Garcia, one of five Irish freshmen who started both games, recorded the game­winn ing goal against Northwestern with 23 minutes left. He then had one of the assists on the lone goal against Boston College in the first half. 
VOLLEYBALL 
• 

Leffers racks up awards 
Special to The Observer 

Senior Mary Leffers was named Rig East co-player of the week for her strong per­formances in Notre Dame's four matches last week. 
Leffers, a middle blocker, 
shares the honors with 
Georgetown's Yulia Vtyurina. 
Leffers led the Irish to a 3-1 
record last week. 

The team notched wins 
over Northwestern and 1998 
NCAA round of 16 partici­
pant Louisville, both in three 
games. 

Leffers tallied team-highs 
in kills in three of last week's four matches, which al.so included a win over Valparaiso Wednesday. 
The Notre Dame team cap­tain recorded 4 7 kills on .406 hitting to go along with 1.08 digs per game and a team­best 1.58 blocks per game throughout the week. 
Leffers was an unanimous selection to the seven-mem­ber Shamrock Invitational all-tournament team. 
She also registered her 800th career kill in the team's only loss of the week to sixth-ranked Pacific. 
A Lecture 
By Wendy Shalit 

Author 1999 Bestseller 
A RETURN TO MODESTY DISCOVERING THE LOST VIRTUE: 
"A heartfelt (and controversial) plea, insisting that the power to heal the American female's ills lies in the reinstatement of sexual restraint, resurrection of romantic ideals, 
... and simple good manners...The message of this book is rarely heard, it is audacious." 
(Kirkus Reviews) 
"Hers is not a back-to-the-corsets conservative creed, but rather a criticism of the • 
scant respect that young men have for women...Shalit appeals for an end to exhibi­tionism and one-night stands and intelligently promotes modesty in dress, etiquette, and morals as a 1neans to a happier and n1ore erotic life for women. Well-organized, briskly written advocacy. 
(Booklist) 
·111esday, September 7, 1999 The Observer . TODAY TOM KEELEY
FOURTH AND INCHES 
Fox TROT (D1Larn1 HAs Movrn rn THE V1EwP01N1 PAGEs.) BILL AMEND 
1999 Bili An1endlD11t by liriworul 11res> Syndicate 

N1CoLE, CHECk IT OIJT .' 1'1EY P\JT us IN 
WE'VE 6oT 2"11 P£R10D 
~DVANCED EN0L1SH.' 
~t)VAN<ED ENGL1St1 
To AAAAAAA! 
I #'I ,.1,. 

\~ "'"'lt=::::--t 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS  JO  Wood tor a  
1  Etcher's need  61-Down  
s Cut and paste s Liniment user  31  Trigonometry ratio  
14  "Bet you can't ... /' e.g.  34 37  Employs Put in the hold  
1s 18  Fisher's plug New, to Neruda  39  Painter of water lilies  
11  Bartender?  40  R.&B. singerJames  
1e  Food writer  41  Location  
Claiborne  
20  California giants  42  North, pemaps  
21  Fritter (away)  44  Immeasurable period  
22  Petitions  45  Lustrous  
23  "Bravo, torero!"  47  Makes  
24  It's observed in Jan. in the  49  Sigma's follower  
Rockies  s1  Fleur-de-_  
2s Modern surgical  s2  Kind of tide  
. tool  54  From A to Z  
28  Dian Fossey's  se  Upright, in  
home  football  

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

60 Saltpetre 61 Bartender? 62 Exonerate ea Pot builder 64 What you might 
buy a Gucci bag in? 65 Sea swallows 66 Freshman, probably 67 Onion's cousin 
DOWN 
1 Throws in 
2 Kind of package 3 Land of the Tigris and Euphrates 4 Render harmless s Beast of Borden s Alexandre, pere ou fils 1 Nest eggs, for short e Lacrosse team 

e Old, in France  21  Bartender?  49  Coloring  56  Trait carrier  
10 Bean _ (tofu) 11 Bartender? 12 Pandora released them 13 Standard word reference 1e Guided trips 21 Missouri River tributary 23 Possessed 25 Lad's love 26 Piedmont wine  28 Libidinous 29 Payable 32 It's in development 33 Spring features 35 Prince's school 36 serif 36 Like Bums's tim'rous beastie 43 Domain 46 Changes  so Old womanish s1 30's migrant s2 Actor Nick of ss Withered"Affliction" 53 "Have you 59 Arduous journey ?" 81 Louisville 55 Algerian seaport Slugger Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50  
center  46  Horrify  years: 1-88_8-7-ACROSS.  

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
page 27 

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS OAY: David Sleek•, Julit• Ka,•nt'r, Corbin Bernsen, Michael Feinstein, Gloria Gaynor, T'egiw Noonan, Chrissie H yncie 
Happy !lirthday: The sl'cret to yllur success this year will be your willingness to work well with others. The more allies you have, the more likc•ly you are to obtain control along with leadership. Your good ideas and quick action will win you tht' confi. dence of those who can and will sup­port your efforts. Your numbers: 6, 19, 23, 31, 35, 47 
ARIES !March 21-April 19): Resi­dential changes will be hectic but rewarding. Opposition is likely if you try to push your mate to do things your way It is best to work quietly and save your comments for a later 
date.00000 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You can do things with children, but be sure to take a little time out for your­self. Your creative talent could make you extra cash. Look into getting your goods out in the market place. 00 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will be indecisive regarding your romantic partner. Too many choices will confuse you. Social activities will bring you in contact with new love interests. 0000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Opportunities to make moves or ren­ovate )'Our living space will be benefi­cial for the whole family. You will have to be careful how vou handle your mate. He or she may not be as eager as you are. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You must concentrate on professional gains. You can make changes if you pick up some addillonal skills. Don't be afraid to trv doing your own thing. 
beam.1@nd.edu 
EUGENIA LAST 
You have the wherewith,,I t,, bv 
successful 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): S..·mi· n,1rs and business meetings will nm smoothly ii you listen carefully bt•lon· you make a statement. Don't push your opinions on others. Make sug• gestions but nothing more. 000 
· LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You will hear about some good investments Listen to what others have to say about stocks or precious metals You can follow through on sell• improvement programs you've bt•en considering. 00000 
SCORPIO {Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You need to give your partner som,• reas· surance if you want to l't'main in )'our relationship. It's time to re-evaluate your motives and discover what you really want out of life. 00 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
It is best to focus on your work. Don't get involved in gossip. You will be admired if you are willing to lend a helping hand to colleagues who are falling behind in their work. 00000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): The younger members of your family will be an integral part of your life right now You may want to considc'r coaching one of the sports events your children are involved in. 000 
AQUARIUS {Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Beautification of your home and property will pay big dividends at a later date. Investment properties should be considered. You can mak,, money if you are willing to invest 
0000 
PISCES {Feb. 19-March 20): Low connections can be made. Yllur per· ception regarding others will be right 

• on. Keep an open mind and look into unusual courses. 000 
-


'f&pte.mber _g_-lntramuraLDe.adlinei; 
-
lH Gro\f ¥ramb\e. Tour IH '5Dller -Men Gr/f/'b '5Dller 

-Men ~ VJomen 

RecSports Office 
Rolfs Sports Recreation Center Register Your Team at RecSports! 
1-6100 • htt ://www.nd.edu/-recs ort 

Out of the Park Undefeated 
Sammy Sosa hit his 58th home Notre Dame men ·s soccer run ofthe season Monday, team aims for a 3-0 putting himselfsix games record today as it takes ahea~ oflast year's pace. on Western Michigan. 
page 21 page 26
PORTS 
O
THE 

page 28 BSERVER Tuesday, September 7, 1999 
VOLLEYBALL 

Irish finish second in Shamrock Classic to Pacific 
charg1~d back behind Lim jumpBy MATT OLIVA serve of Sarah Drury lo tin tlw 
Spom Writer 
game at 14. But the comeback was not enough, as senior 

The Irish volleyball team Mary Leffers and juniorcapped off a successful Christi Girton guided tlrn Irish 
-
Shamrock Classic weekend tn a 16-14 victory.with a three-game swerp of Game 2 was just as close, 
Louisville. wilh the Irish eventually win­The wins placed N.otrc ning 15-13. After taking a 12­
Dame, 2-1 for the tournament, 
<) lead, Notre Dame surrcn­second behind Pacific, who dernd five straight points. went undefeated. Louisville 
But the Cardinals wore finished third with a 1-2 unable to score again, and thr. record. and Northwestern Irish took a 2-() lflad. 
went wi.nless for the weekPnd In the third game, tho Irish for a last place finish. ran out to an imprnssive lead 
"We did good things in all and never looked back. thnie games, especially With l 0 kills and 9 digs,against Pacific," head coach junior Jo .J ameyson l11d thn Debbie Brown said. "I think 
Irish to a 15-4 win. our team did a great job Leffers and sophomorntoday. We competed well." Kristy Krehnr each con­The Irish opened the tour­
tributed 9 kills against 

nament Friday with a 3-0 vic­Lousiville, whiln Doniso tory over the Northwestern Boylan had a team high 33 Wildcats but were unable to assists on the day.defeat sixth-ranked Pacific on 
The Cardinal's Sonja Percan Saturday, losing 3-0. led all players with 20 kills in Sunday's match against the match, while teammatti Louisville was much closer Emily Robertson had a match­
than the term "sweep" might high 34 assists. Irish middle blockers Malinda Goralski (left) and Jo Jameyson go up strong to block an oppo­indicate. "This was probably the nent's hit. The Irish are 3-1 on the season under head coach Debbie Brown With the Irish leading 14-11 toughest match for us," Brown 
in the first game, Louisville see VOLLEYBALL/page 24 
FOOTBALL 

Injuries strike Irish, threaten weekend play 
I 
I 
is going to happen," he said.
I By BRIAN KESSLER "We run so many options and
I Sports Editor 
roll-outs, and there are a lot
~ 
. 
of teams that blitz. You never
The Irish will have some 
know what is going to happen.
injury problems to deal with 
"Jarious is a strong guy,"
this week in practice as they 
Battle continued. "I don't 
prepare for Saturday's game think a toe will keep Jarious 
at Purdue. 

out of the game. Right now, I
Quarterback Jarious 
am looking at it like he willJackson injured his toe in the 
not be back but I am pretty
fourth quarter of last 
sure he is. I am just trying to
Saturday's Michigan game, go out there and prepare 
-but didn't notify coaches until myself and the team in a goodafter the game. He practiced week of practice."
lightly on Monday despite .Junior flanker Joey
barely being able to walk on Getheral! separated his rightSunday. 
shoulder in the second half of
'Tm foeling a lot better last Saturday's game and isn't
now," Jackson said. "I'm able expected back until after the 
to walk, even though I'm 
Sept. 25 open date.
limping. It's not throbbing and 'Tm disappointed for Joey,the swelling has gone down, 
because Joey has really 
-so it feels better." 
worked hard and he is bigger
Backup quarterback Arnaz 
and stronger than be has eyerBattle will step in if Jackson been," Davie said. "Joey is a can·t play Saturday. 
really good football player
"Every week you have to go and he is a valuable member 
out there and get ready 
Quarterback Jarious Jackson threw for 302 yards Saturday in the Irish loss to Michigan. He
because you never know what see FOOTBALL/page 23 
injured his toe in the game, and his playing status against Purdue is uncertain. 
ac St. John's
at Purdue 
Volleyball at Ohio Western 
VS;

Saturday, 2:30 p.m. Sunday, I p.m. Friday, 3:30 p.m. 
SPORTS ~ 
-... e 
ATA • •
Volleyball vs. Kentucky Cross country at Valparaiso 
vs. Western Michigan Today, 2:30 p.m. Saturday, 2 p.m. Sarurday, IO a.m
GLANCE ~ 








