
Give me the remote ...Stat! 
Take a look al "ER" after George Clooney·s departure. as well as shows like "11w X Files" and "Who Wants to be a Millionaire." 
Scene . page 12 

THE 
VOLXXXIII NO.60 
Women's basketball, class join to fight cancer 
disease will be honored. By ERIN PIROUTEK In addition to the informational Nrw., Wrirn opportunities, fans will have tho 
opportunity to see the No. 8 Fighting 
Wlwn Lim Notre Dame women's bas­Irish in action. as well as participate in ketball toam takHs the flour this many giveaways and contests. 1w1rni11g, it will l'ac11 1101 only Butlor, The first 1,000 fans will receive a 
free T-shirt and every fan in atten­
bul also !L morn formidable enemy ­
breast c1111cer. Tonight's 7 µ.m. home dance is gurantecd a gift. such as a O[H'llPr for tlrn Fighting Irish is a poster or magnet. J•ans will also have the opportunity to win a free round­
Brnast CancPr i\warr.ness Women's Baskntball Ganrn coordinated by pro­
trip airline ticket. 
f'pssor Chuck Lennon's management The students were rnsponsible for organization and promotion, which
class. Through early detm:tion and prompl included public service announce­trnalmPnt, sufforing ments featuring Dick and loss due to breast 
Vitale.

"This is going to be a spe­
,:anccr 1'.an be greatly "The women's bas­
cial game to honor all of ketball team has been
rnduced. Before ttw ganrn, the loved ones we ·ve lost more than helpful," l'rt•I' lo students, fac­
said student Ryan

to cancer." 
Newell.

ulty and staff, boe1ths 
"It's been a great

f'rom Memorial 
lmani Dunbar experience," said
llospital. St .Joseph's !lospital and Zcn11ca iunior guard 
junior guard Imani pharmaceutical com­Dunbar as she handed pany will provide out pink cards promot­
informati()n about breast cancor. ing the game to students at South Dining llall. "This is going to be a spe­
"The sayii1g we use is 'early detec­
cial game to honor all of the loved
tion means survival.'" said Lennon. noting that a goal or the event is to ones we've lost to cancer." aliirting everyone to the importance of 
In addition to wearing pink ribbons in their shoelaces, the women's bas­
mamm_ograms and breast self-exams. ket b a I l team will wear specially
Mammognq1hy can dntect possibly 
canc1irous brnast changes long before designed T-shirts that read "Long Live shirts to the Butler players. of management they learn in the class­physical symptoms can bn smm or felt. Courage" with the pink ribbon breast Lennon's class, management 231. is room and apply them to a real-life sit­At half-time, the sounds of the song cancer logo during the pre-game one of several service-learning classes uation that benefits the community. warmup. As the players are intro­
"I Will Survivo" will fill tlw arnna and offered by the University. The class those who hav1i triumphed over the duced, the Irish will present the same allows students to take the principles see HOOPS/page 4 

30 students donate blood to rally for lO~year-old patient 
By TIM LOGAN News Editor 
Virtually no one on this campus knows Patty Collins, a !()-year old girl living in Seattle, but 30 studcmts took time out of their day Tuesday to donate a pint of blood in her name. 
The Arnold Air Society held a blood drive Tuesday as part of a nationwide effort to raise 1,000 pints of blood by Collins' 11th birthday later this month. The young girl is suffering from a rare form of liver cancer and her parents have asked their friends to organize these blood drives in her n1unc1, to lrnlp combat blood bank shortages in the U.S. 
Junior Melissa Douche, a member of the Arnold Air Society. organized the event. and said it was a success. 
"Our goal was to have 25 people come," she said. "Wo wero rnally pleased with all the participation we had." 
Students actually had to be turned away at some points during the drive, which ran from 9 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. in LaFortune Student Center, because there were not enough nurses on duty to administnr the donations. 
"We turned down so many peopln," Bouche said. "It's too bad, but wo didn't have enough facilities." 
Some students signed up in advance, but word-of-mouth drew others to the 
see BLOOD/page 4 


Face off in Seattle 
Riot police confront protesters outside the World Trade Organization meetings on Tuesday. 
World Nation . page 5 

HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 
Wednesday 
DECEMBER 1, 
1999 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, December 1, 1999 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Clash ofthe Titans 
Michael Jordan versus Wilt Chamberlain. Mike Tyson versus Mohammed Ali. Undefeated '74 Mia.mi Dolphins versus the '85 Oiicago Bears. Which dream matchup ranks as the greatest of all time? None of the ones I have listed so far. There is only one such matchup that Tom Keeley could possibly live up to its billing -one I.hat involves two of the mightiest bohc-Cartoonist moths ever to grace their respective domains. One that pits two opposing forces so powerful that if they were ever to actually meet in the heat of battle the results would be so catastrophic that all aspects of life would be drastically altered for decades to come. rgive you the ultimate clash of the titans -the Smurfs versus the Keebler Elves. 
These two competitors offer a matchup so intriguing that one cannot help but to examine both sides carefully and then try to determine an eventual champion. 
The Smurfs: though admittedly small in size, the Smurfs compensate for this principle weak­ness in quantity. Scholars estimate that hundreds of different Smurfs of all kinds of character traits and specialties populate the Smurf Village, more than enough tu greatly outnumber the Keebler Elves. 
Anothel' point to consider is the individual abil­ities of several Smurfs that could lead to eventual Smurf domination. The most obvious of these key players is Papa Smurf and his natural leadership capabilities. Time after time Gargamel has tested Papa Smurfs mettle and in every instance he has proven his worth, 
Ever victorious. Papa Smurfs possession of no exploitable weaknesses make him an ideal mili­tary general. Other Smurfs of note include Jokey Smurf and his detailed knowledge of small explo­sives. Hefty Smurf and his immense strength, and Handy Smurf and his expertise in the field of general mechanics. 
The Keebler Elves: the Keebler Elves principle strength lies in their ability to make adjustments quickly. For almost three decades, the Keebler Elves have provided much of the free world with every kind of potato chip imaginable. Their mas­tery of the world market did not come about by accident or circumstance. 
The Elves examine every market trend in minute detail to determine which way their industry is headed and then make immediate adjustments accordingly, Such quick action requires intense training and efficient employee management, qualities that would become most advantageous in the heat of battle. 
The Keebler Elves also have terrain advantage. The impenetrable hollow oak tree that the Keebler Elves inhabit provides both protection and a structure that could be made into much more than a baked goods workshop if a battle would so demand it. 
Just like the American factories were convert­ed into war machine manufacturing plants dur­ing World War II. so too, the oak tree could be transformed into a weapons and ammunitions facility. This technological advantage could give the Keebler Elves the edge they need to combat the Smurfs superiority in numbers. 
Who would win this battle of such epic propor­tions? Could it be the Keebler Elves with their high technology wiping out all ofSmurf-kind? Or would it be the Smurfs outlasting the Keebler Elves in a war of attrition? 
Whatever the outcome, a battle between com­batanLc; such as the Keebler Elves and the Smurfs could only be referred to as a Clash of the Titans. 
The l!iews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer, 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene 
Bill Uniowski Mike Vanegas Finn [>ressly 
Graphics Sports 
Amy Crownover Mike Connolly 
Production Viewpoint Rachel Protzman Brian Hobbins Lab Tech Angela Campos 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) i, puhlish,d Mond.y rhrough Frid.y txcept during exam ;utd vac-.ltion periods. The OQsetver is a member of the Associ,ued Prc:s.s. Ail rrproducrion rights arr reserved. 


THIS WEEK IN SOUTH BEND 

Wednesday  Thursday  
. Star for Santa's Tree:  . Holiday tea:  
6:30 p.m., Planetarium  Sandwiches, scones,  
and Space Museum, 55860  cookies and music. 2-4  
Bittersweet Rd.,  p.m.; $9 per adult. 420 W.  
Mishawaka.  Washington St.  
Reservations required.  
234-5959,  

Friday 

. Santa's Christmas parade: 5:30 p.m., parade with fire engines. carolers and lighting of Christmas tree. Downtown Mishawaka. 
Saturday 
. International Winter Festival: 4-7 p.m., enter­tainment, refreshments and activities. $3-5 admis­sion. Northern Indiana Center for History, 808 W. Washington St. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports


OUTSIDE THE DOME 

Duke questions bonfire following A&M tragedy 
DURHAM, N.C. 
The coJlapse of the six-tiered, 55­foot-tall bonfire structure at Texas A&M University earlier this month that killed 12 people illustrated the tentative balance between universi­ties· age-old traditions and practical concerns about safety. 
"I think the Texas A&M thing has highlighted for us something we were certainly focused on in our planning -safety," said Sue Wasiolek, assis­tant vice president for student affairs. "The focus has and continues to be on the safety of the event." 
Duke administrators -many of whom patrolled last year's five cele­brations -met just a few days before the A&M tragedy to discuss bonfires and to attempt to strike that careful balance between safety and tradition at Duke. 
Last year, administrators tried to 


For the first time in several bonfire years, no serious injuries resulted. 
"These things can be quite danger­ous. Ours is a somewhat diflerent sit­uation than this one," executive vice 
Airline enrages Arizona students 
TUCSON, Ariz, 
A University of Arizona doctoral student and a fel­low Saudi· Arabian airline passenger are still trying to get over the shock of being detained on an America West airlines flight 11 days ago in what they claim was ethnic discrimination. University of Arizona doctoral student Muhammad Al-Qudhaieen and Arizona State University doctoral student Hamdan Al-Shalawi have yet to determine if they will take any legal action. Al-Shalawi said they have a lawyer but are still deciding what to do. "Our rep­utation is contaminated and for what -for nothing, just because we're Middle Easterners," Al-Shalawi said. Al-Qudhaieen and Al-Shalawi were flying from Phoenix to Washington, D.C. when the plane sud­denly landed at an Ohio airport for an "airplane inspection. We did not know at all, that we are actu­ally the ones that were targeted, we had no idea about what was going on," Al-Qudhaieen said during an interview Tuesday. "They just stopped in Columbus and they said they were having a inspec­tion of the plane." 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 


Q,Q,Qp~Qt:l~u 
Showers T-storms Ram Flurries Snow Jee Sunny Pt. Cloudy CJoudy Via Associated Press Graph1csN0t 

president Tallman Trask said of the A&M tragedy. "At Duke, the danger can be avoided if people behave prop­erly. For the last few years. we have been very successful. ... I do hope peo­ple will think about this a little bit and be a bit more careful." 
At their Nov. 16 meeting, adminis­trators decided to stick with what workrd last year. and they are apply­ing for six permits, with one extra for the women's basketball national championship game, 
But the A&M tragedy, served as a reminder that one year of safety -or 90 years in Texas -does not mean that a potentially dangerous activity is safe. 
"The A&M tragedy was a very sor­rowful reminder that even the happi­est traditions can have dangerous implications," president Nan Keohane said. 
Virginia mulls funding options 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. 

Virginia Gov. James Gilmore, IJJ's (H) Blue Ribbon 
Commission on Higher Education is recommending that all state public institutions of higher learning should receive funding based on how well the colleges and uni­versities meet performance standards. So far, some University officials support the recommendation, which potentially could increase state funding and aid budget planning. The Commission's recommendation is com­prised of three main categories by which schools would be judged: affordability, quality and accountability. Schools that meet these qualifications will receive increased state funding or funding bonuses. Failure to reach the qualifications would result in minimal state support. "The University of Virginia has absolutely noth­ing to worry about in terms of funding" because the University already has very high standards. said Larry J, Sabato, government and foreign affairs professor and member of the Blue Ribbon Commission. "A lot of the proposals set forth by the commission are not new here. . Many of the measures that were in the recommendation 
are already in place throughout the school." 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather"forecast for noon, Wednesday, Dec. 1. Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. FRONTS: ............................... e 1999 AccuWeathor, Inc. COLO WARM STATIONARY  
Preaure: ® © . . ~ liZJ ~ Htgh Low Showen Rain T-etorm1 Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy  

Via Associated Prnss  
Atlanta  52  28  Houston  71  39  Palm Beach  68  50  
Baltimore  36  23  Las Vegas  63  50  Portland  50  42  
Boston  33  26  London  50  48  St. Louis  56  31  
Chicago  49  26  MIiwaukee  48  27  Tampa  65  41  
Dublin  45  41  New York  38  29  Wash DC  37  27  

Wednesday, December 1, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Prof elected to Oxford appoinbnent 
Special 10 The Observer 
.I. Eric Smithburn. prof'tlssor or law. has been elected twu 1>restigious visiting appoint­
ments next year  at  Oxford  
University.  
Smith-bum "viii  snrve  as  a  

visiting scholar of Oxford's Wolfson Collegn, collaborating with othPr scholars on a new book that will rnviow and ana­ly:tn th n full rangn of private and public law issues involving children and l'amilics in England and Wales, Scotland, Australia and the United Statns. 
Concurrently, he will lead and participat11 in SP-minars and workshops, consult with stmlnnts and conduct research 
Matthias Scheutz, visiting professor, lectures on behavior based robotics and their role in artificial 
Intelligence 
and cognitive science Tuesday In DeBartolo Hall. 
BETSY STOREYrThe Observe-r 
as a visiting fellow of tho Centre for Socio-Legal Stu~ies at Oxford. 
A member of the Notre Dame Law School faculty since 1978, Smithburn specializes in family law, juvenile law and evidence, lie has sr.rved sinre 1984 as director of' the Notre Dame Summer London Law Program, whfirc he teaches romparative family law, and he also is on the !'acuity of the Notre Dame­based National InstitutP-for Trial Advocacy. 
Before joining the Notre Dame faculty, Smithburn was in private law practice from 1974-76 and was a Marshall County Court judge from 1976­
78. lie earned his law degree in 197 3 from Indiana University, where he also received his bachelor's degree in biological science and his master's degree in history and African studies. 
He has published eight books, including "Lizzie Borden: A Case Book of Family and Crime in the 1890s," "Judicial Discretion," "Criminal Trial Advoracy," "Indiana Family Law" and "Family Law: Problems and Documents." 
!Io has held previous visiting or adjunct faculty appoint­ments at the School or law at the University of AberdeP-n in Scotland, in the master of judi­cial studies program at the University of Nevada-Reno and at the Valparaiso School of Law. 


University Residence Halls Are Now Available 
Office of Student Affairs 316 Main Building 
Completed Applications must be 
submitted by February 11, 2000 
For More Information call the Office of Student Affairs at 631-5550 
MR. ROBOTO 

2000-2001 

Assistant Rector 
Applications 
for 

Prof leads discussion on Merton book 
Special to The Observer 
Lawrence Cunningham, pro­fessor of theology will lead a dis­cussion and sign copies of his new book. "Thomas Merton and t h e Monastic Vision" today at 7 
p.m. in the Hammes N o tr e D a m e Bookstore on cam­pus. 
A mem­
ber of the Notre Dame faculty since 1987, Cunningham served as the chair of the theology department from 1991-97. Before coming to Notrn Damn, he taught at Florida Statfl University for 17 years. 


Cunningham is the author of numerous books, including a 1992 study of Merton, entitled "Thomas Merton: Spiritual Master" (Paulist, 1992). lie also recently edited for publication the 1952-60 personal notebooks of Merton. Cunningham has published articles in a wide range of journals and books; is the regular author of the col­umn Religious Booknotes for Commonweal magazine; and served as an associate editor of the Harper SanFrancisco "Dictionary of Religion" and the same publisher's "Encyclopedia of Catholicism." 
Profs collaborate on financial 01anage01ent text 
Special to The Observer 
Finance professors John Halloran and Howard Lanser have collaborated with a col­league from Purdue 
University on a new textbook titled "Financial Manage­ment: An Introduc­tion to 


Principles Halloran a n d 
Practice." 
Published by South-Western College Publishing, the 822-page text provides students taking a first course in finance with the terminol­ogy, theory and analytical techniques of corporate financial management. 
The authors' unifying theme of shareholder wealth maximization is common to other texts in the field. This book, however, carries it out in a consistent and unified fashion, applying the concept not only to the typical analy­sis of capital expenditure decisions and cost of capital, but also to working capital management, financial bud­geting and planning, and international financing and investing decisions. 
The book also is innovative in its substantive and system­atic treatment of the invest­ing and financing decis.ions or multinational firms as part of the core managerial process. A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1976, llalloran is an associate professor of finance and business eco­nomics and director of the University's Center for Research in Banking. Ile teaches and conducts research in the areas of capi­tal investment analysis, working capital theory, com­mercial bank management, and the operation of financial markets. 
Halloran formerly served on the education consulting staff of 

t h o Banking Adminis­tration Institute. lie earn­ed his bache­1 o r ' s 
Lanser degree in 

finance from St. Louis University and his master's of business administration and doctoral degrees from Washington University in St. Louis. Lanser also is an associate professor of finance and business economics, who was appointed to the Notre Dame faculty in 1971. His areas of expertise include executive compensation, capital bud­geting, the cost of capital, working capital manage­ment, and the valuation of privately held companies. 
Chair of the finance depart­ment for seven years, Lanser has served as director of Notre Dame's undergraduate program in Fremantle, Australia, and MBA program in Santiago, Chile. He earned his bachelor's degree in elec­trical engineering from Notre Dame and his master's degreP-and doctorate in finance from Purdue. 
Halloran and Lansnr col­laborated on the book with Wilbur Lewellen, the Jlcrman 
C. Krannert Distinguished Professor of Management at Purdue's Kranncrt Graduate School of' Management. An expert in corporate finance, Lewellen also is dirnctor of Krannert's Executive Education Programs. 

page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, December 1, 1999 
Blood 
continued from page 1 
drive. and many of those turned away were these walk-ins. 
Nurses came from the South Rend Medical Foundation Blood Bank to draw the blood, and that organization will receive the donations. · 
Junior Eric Schearer, a 
name." ho said. "It's a good thing." 
Like the donors, the girl's parents are members of the Notre Dame community. Iler father Bill graduated from the University in 1975, and her mother Kathy graduated from Saint Mary's in 1976. 
Patty Collins was diagnosed with the cancer in September. Since then, she has had seven blood transfusions. Bouche said. 
The drive came to Notre Dame through sophomore Peter Sweeney, a member of the Arnold Air Society and friend of the Collins family, according to Bouche. It was organized in the last two weeks. 
There may be another hlood drive in Patty's name next semester. Bouche said, but she encouraged students to donate now. 
"You don't have to wait for the blood 
drive to come to you," she said. "Especially during the holiday 
season, that's when s u p ­
p Ii es

blood donor and member 
"We turned down so 
are at

of the Arnold Air Society, 
many people. It's too bad, their
said that the experience was a worthwhile one. but we didn't have 1 0. w ­
est."

"You give blood to help 
enough facilities." 
people who are diseased, Mo 5t 
people

and the parents of 
i n

!Collins] wanted people Melissa Bouche to give blood in her Arnold Air Society g o o d 
health 
w h o 
are more than 1 7 years old and weigh at least 110 pounds are eligible to give blood. 
Students who would like to do so can con­
tact the South Bend Medical Foundation 
Blood Facts 
. Every three 
seconds, someone in America needs blood. 
. Approximately 
40,000 pints ol blood are used each day in the U.S. . Roughly 60 
percent of !he U.S. population is 
eligible to give 
blood, but only five 
percent do so. 
Blood Bank Monday through Saturday downtown at 234-1157, or in Mishawaka at 273-887g, 

Hoops 
continued from page 1 
"These kids have done every­thing," said Lennon. "Our say­ing in class is 'high trust; high perfonnance.'" 
"rt shows you that school isn't just about classes and tests -there's applications to real life situations," said Margaret Maus, one of Lennon's students. 
The project will continue long after the final buzzer sounds. 
Lennon will teach the man­agement class again next semester. That class will orga­nize a breast cancer awareness baseball game April 30 whrn Notre Dame faces St John's. 
Lennon explained that 2,800 female University alumni will get breast cancer. He said the awareness should be expanded to include those women. 
The students compiled a booklet with instructions for organizing a breast cancer awareness event. The booklet will be distributed to the 240 Notre Dame alumni clubs . 
Facts about Breast Cancer 
provided by the American Cancer Society ii 
ti 
• Breast Cancer is the most common form of cancer in American women.  11 f  
• One out of nine women in the U.S. will develop breast cancer in her lifetime. In 1960, the r· was one out of 14.  
• This year, a woma of breast cancer minutes.  


... l'M SORRY, YOUR REQUEST HAS BEEN DENIED 
Sweating through their 15 minutes, Chris Cordes {right), Rebecca Monge and Patrick Gilligan use computers to DART at the Main Building. 
SHANNON BENNETT/The Observer 



NEED MONEY FOR BREAK? 
TAKE OUT A SHORT-TERM LOAN FROM: 
THE MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 11:30-12:30 M-F IN FRONT OF THE DOOLEY ROOM 
IN LAFORTUNE 
CALL 1-6561 WITH ANY 
Ol)ESTJONS 
Attention All HUGS Members 
Annual Skating Party Sunday, December 5th 5:00 -6:30 pm ND Ice rink (JACC) 
•Bring $1 if you want to rent skates 
•Christmas snacks provided 

orld 

Wednesday, December l, 1999 COMPILE!) FH0M TIIE ODSfiBVEH WIHE SEHVICJiS page 5 
-----:__-_-_-_-_-_--=======-::-=-=:-=-=-=__::-=-=================================================================================== 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Witness: ValuJet executive worried about investigation 
MIAMI 
In a rnnfi,wnui call all11r Lim Va!uJct crash. an airlirw PX<'culivn said hn was worrind that f'ndPral ol'l1dals would find out about the air­lirH' 's failure lo follow a rncomnwndution lHl aircraft doors that could have 1:ontained a r.argo fin• m1 tlrn plann. an opr\rator testifind TlH,sday . . Jurors wf'rn out of' lhP room whm1 Sprint opera­tor Kathlnt~n Whnat11n tnstilied. Thn judge in the trial of Valu.lPt's outsidn maintPnance r,ontrac­tor. SabrnTPr.h. am! two !i,rnwr ornploynos con­sirll'rl'd it inllammatorv lwarsav and wouldn't ,Lllow llw jury to hoar" it. Hoc1tlling notes sho wok d11ri11µ the eall. Wlwaton teslifind that Cil Morgan. Valu.ll'l vier prl'sidl'nt of rontriH'ts. said: "I lwpc tltc peoplt: or the FM ncv1:r find out w,, did not follow McDonrrnll-Dougla.s rnc­omnwmlations to km1p thmm doors shut." 
Security Council requests aid 
for Congo 

UNITEIJ NATIONS :\nxious Lo knl'p Congo's pnacn ·process from bogging d1,wn. the S1,curity Council asked tlrn 
U.N. chil'!' on Tt111sday Lo start cquipping 500 military obsnrvPrs whn could nrnve quickly into c,;ngo lo monitor a l'ragilt: c1iase-firn. 1-'ightinµ has llan'd up again bctwenn rPbnls and tlw troops of PrPsident Laurent Kabila. Tlw two sides signed a p1rnce agrnement in August, along with Kabila's allies, Angola and Namibia, and the rebt'ls' backers, Hwanda ,tnd Uganda. Undt>r the p1mce accord, the UniLPd Nations is Lo assist the cease-!in1 moni­tors from the Organization of African Unity until Urn arrival of a larger U.N. peacekeeping mission that will oversee the withdrawal of forl'ign troops from Congo and the <lisarma­mnnt or militias. 
Serbian mayor demands release of EU oil shipment 
BliLGHADE, Yugoslavia 
Tim mavor of a Serbian dty desperately in 1wPd of 1w:1ting oil Tuesday protested the gov­c rnmnnt's blockade of a European Union oil shipmrml nwanl for two cilins run by opponents of Prnsident Slobodan Milosevic.. Tomislav l'anajotovic. the mayor of Pirot -one of two Sr'rbi11n dtins awaiting 350 tons of heating oil stallt>cl at thn southern border by Snbian cus­toms authoritins -thrPatennd lo go on hung1ir strike if the shipment is not rdeased soon, the independent Beta nnws agency reported. l'anajotovic said that by Tunsday arternoon, his city had us1id up all its lwating oil resnrves. "We did ,werything to serum the need('d quantities of hnaling oil. but because of thP evil govnrn­nwn t policies, Pirot is without heating," Pa1rnjolovic told independnnt B2-92 radio. Some 14 I!U oil trucks remained stuck at the Macedonian bordPr. 
•iiii•INJW@MimJJ
Dow AMEx: 
832.81 

JONES 70 II) 
Nasdaq:

-70. JI 
3336.16 -85.21 

JJ 
NYSE 631.18 
-5.32 
S&P ~00: 
Composite1389.07 Volume:

10,877.81 
-IR.76 111,6J9,1169,121 
VOLUME LEADERS 

COW.PA.MY X!CKIR, '> ClWi91 I CllABQI ,au:1 
v~otn: CORP VQNJI: •~71. 95 •9 .i375 1).'50 .k.MU,YCA O!ll;!NC ,ot -1 . .,s -e:.uoa 72.89 Ml:CRO.AOP'T' it'.'QftP MSrT .o.96 +o.u:n !)1.05 DILL-COICPUTSJ\ D•LL -1.11 -Cl. '1S.OO 4,l.00 IIOUlt INC MOLX +17 .u +7 .500,0 !1,0.'50 A?•T CQIRP' -6.87 -t.UOO ss. 86
•

CUCO 8t8Tlk• CICO -3.H -l.5400 8i,U IORIL COU' coin,. -12. 51 -:Z.62SO 18,:ZS IICI WQll.l.,!ICOII IN !ICON .. 5,09 -t.4350 U,6P lNrlL coui IH'IC -l.85 -l.HH 76,6:9 

against each another. Theater. got in shouting matches
By LUIS CABRERA 

Angry renegades Demonstrators driven with more peacefully
Associated Press 

smashed downtown win­from the site by clouds of inclined prot~sters during dows at a McDonald's, an red-pepper spray were a midday lull in the action. SEATTLE FAO Schwartz to y store, tended by their own At least one person was Promises of nonviolent 
a Joan and David shoe medics, who carried bottles arrested for assault during protest against World 
store and U.S.Bank. or water to clear swollen the morning dash outside Trade Organization talks "Barbie Kills" was eyes and breathing pas­the WTO meeting rooms. were shattered -along 
sprayed on a toy-store sages. "We know there have with slorefront windows ­
window full of Barbie "They sprayed me right been more [arrests! made, 
as 5,000 demonstrators dolls. 

in the face. We were just we just don't have the clashed with police seeking Activists upended sitting there chanting to numbers," said police com­to clear the way for dele­garbage bins in the streets the delegates, and they mand center spokeswoman 
gates to get into the confer­

to serve as blockades and sprayed us with tear gas," Marti Mr.Kee, with the fed­ence. 
barricades. Some vandal­said Tom Wilson, 54, of eral Bureau of Alcohol, Tensions escalated after 
ized police vehicles, Viroqua, Wis., who spoke Tobar.co and·Firearms. police used pepper spray 
methodically slashing with his eyes closed. gri­Officers, trying to clear a Tuesday to disperse 
tires, kicking in doors and macing in pain. as he was path for delegatfls movingcrowds that had stalled the 
scrawling graffiti after the treated on the street. between WTO venues. meeling's opening cere­morning clash delayed the Black-garbed young men warned crowds blockingmonies. In one place, conference's opening cer­in ski masks were behind intersections that theydemonstrators turned emonies at the Paramount some of the vandalism and would be cleared using 
Study: Gulf War illness is brain damage 
we have proof of brain cal exposure is the answer, The brain stem controls
By BRENDA COLEMAN 

damage in sick Gulf War Quigley said. "We need to some of the body's rnllexes, 
Associated Press 

veterans," said the lead take a look at it." and the basal ganglia arc research er, Dr. Jam es The researchers roported switching stations for ncrvn CIIICAGO Fleckenstein, professor of that magnetic resonance impulses r.ontrolling move­Brain sr.ans or soldiers radiology at the University spectroscopy, which mea­ment, memory and emotion. who beli1:Jve thev suffer of Texas Southwestern sures body chemistry. The basal ·ganglia, f'or 
from Gulf War i1111ess sug­

Medical Center in Dallas. revealed thal veterans who example, are where thn gest they have brain dam­"They can be believed -believe thcv havtl the illness malfunctioning occurs that age, possibly from chemi­they're not malingering, have lower-than-normal causes Parkinson's disease. cals they were exposed to they'rn not depressed. levels ol' a chemical, N­In the study. brain scans 
during the conl'lict, 

lhev're not stressed. acctyl-aspartate. in the of 22 sick veterans revealed 
resc arclH)rs reported 

The.re's a hope for treat­brain stem and basal gan­levels of N-acetyl-aspartatcTuesday. ment and there's hope for glia. 10 percent to 25 percentThe researchers said vet­being able to monitor the That suggests a loss of' lower than those in 18 
erans who report symptoms 

progress of the disease." neurons in those areas, said healthy veterans, ol' the illness had lower lev­A Pentagon spokesman, the researchers, who prn­Fleckenstnin said. The find­els of' a certain brain chemi­
Hear Adm. Craig Quigley, sented the findings at the ing held up in an additional c.al than healthy veterans of said he looked forward to 85th annual meeting of the six sick Gulf War veterans Urn 1991 con l1ict. examining the research. "I Hadiological Society of drawn from a different part
"This is the first lime evPr hope he's right" I.hat chemi-North America. of the military. he said. 

page 6 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, December 1, 1999 


RecSports "Champion Student Award" recipients are selected by the Office of Recreational Sports. Honorees are chosen for their involvement in RecSports, including excellence in sportsmanship, leadership and participation. 
A year's study in Rome last year did nothing to dim the brightest of many stars on the Irish Water Polo club, Matt McNicholas. Hailing from Lombard, IL, Matt spurned a full scholarship to play for Villanova and entered Notre Dame with a pedigree in the sport -All-State, second-team All­American and three time Junior Olympian. Named team MVP his sophomore year, Matt also played for the National 20 and under team his freshman and sophomore years. An architecture major, Matt later plans to earn an art degree in Florence. Matt's other RecSports activities include refereeing intramural water polo and participating in Late Night Olympics. When Midwest and All-American honors are announced shortly, look for his name to appear on both teams. 
Recipients receive <£~merchandise from the 
..... 
VARSITY SHOP 
...r 
"Specializing in Authentic 
Notre Dame Sportswear" 
(Joyce Center) 

1lt I':. 

VARSITY SHOP
7-:2.-:--­
~e-e-.....--~ 
c>-z, 
·1•· 
. "Specializing in Authentic www.nd.edu/-recsport 
Notre Dame Sportswear" 
Upcoming Events & Dead· 

One Da Table Tennis Tournament 
Saturday, December 4, 11 :OOpm-6:00pm Register in advance at RecSports. Deadline to register is 12:00pm, Friday, Dec. 3 
0 en Skate 
Thursday, December 9, 7:00-9:00pm Joyce Center Ice Rink Bring your ID for FREE admission & skates. HOT CHOCOLATE & COOKIES!!' 

Look for this award to appear in the Observer every other Wednesday. Students selected receive (£~ ~L~~~~ && &&
merchandise courtesy of \..&,.-..---......,--.... -and the vir7'1°' with two locations in the Joyce Center. The vir7'i°' is open Monday-Saturday 9:00am to 5:00pm and Sunday 12:00pm to 4:00pm. (Phone: 631-8560). 
Wednesday, December 1, 1999 The Observer . INDIANA NEWS page 7 
Nun criticizes Pope, loses job 
Associarc,I rrcss 
ST. MEINHJ\D, Ind. 

A nun who Inst her tP.aching job aft<'r publirly criticizing l'opn .John Paul ll's stancn on women joining I.IH\ priP:-1 hood :,;ays shr\ will cnntinur. her IPgal baLtlc! againsl tlw St. MPinrad Srhool ol'Theology. 
Tlw Indiana Supn\mc Court d1\di1wd lo hear thP. cast1 of Sister Carnwl Mcl<:nroy wh1'n it dnni1id lwr petition on Nov. I'). Tlrnr!it'orn, an Indiana Court of l\ppeals ruling on the matwr will slltnd. 
On .lunn 24, tlw app<'llutc court upheld 1L decision by S1wnct•r Circuit .Judgn Wayne Honll. lie rulPd his court had no jurisdiction over Sisler '.'vk((nroy's lawsuit b11causc thr• casn dnlvnd too clePply into a roligious issun. 
"My lawy11r is prcparnd to takt\ this Lo the U.S. Supreme Court." Sisler Mclinroy said Monday. She is rnprnsented by Hon SlwtTcr, an attorney from l lendr•rs1m. Ky. 
Tim nun taught Human Calholic tlrnology and doctrine f'or 14 years at St. Mcinrad, granted a defense motion to wlrnrc she was a lr.nured pro­dismiss the lawsuit. He wrote fessor. that the dispute was "one over 
In 1994, the pope dorlared church doctrine" that his in an Apostolic Lotter that the court could not resolve. 
ordination  of'  In its ruling,  
women priests  as no  "My lawyer is  the Courl of Appeals agreed  
longr,r was an  prepared to take this  with Roell, sny­ 
issur,. Several  to the U.S Supreme  in g  the  court  
months later, Sist"r McEnroy  Court."  would "clearly  be and  
was  among  excessively  
I .:iOO  people  Sister Carmel McEnroy  entangll:'d  in  

who signed a letter of protest publish<'cl in the National Catholic Hnporlnr. 
At the tim<'. she said the l<'t­tcr's intent was to generate more debate on the subject ,rnd that she had signed it as an individual. not as a repre­sentative of lhe school. 
According-lo c.uurt docu­ments, Sister McEnruy was lirnd in 1995 aflnr St. Meinrnd offic:ials saw tlw published let­ter. Sim sued, alhiging breach of' contract and denial of due process. 
In February 1998, Hoell 
religious 
affairs"  if  it  
allowed  the  
case to go forward.  

Sisler McEnroy, who now teaches at Lexington (Ky. l Theological Seminary, sai<l she was disappointt1d that the Indiana Supreme Court passed on hearing her case. 
St. Mcinrad issued a state­ment Tuesday saying it was pleased by the state Supreme Court's decision. 
Many St. Meinrad sLudcnt:. go on tu become Catholic priests who serve in southern Indiana and western Kentucky. 

Threatening woman gets trial date 
A.ssoci.i tcd PrC'SS 
CHI\WFOB!>SVILLF. Ind. 
.-\ juclg,\ has sPt a March trial datl' for a woman who allr.!{cd­ly thri•a(!\ncd !'our high s(-hiiol studPnts wilh a handgun al't,ir orw ol' ttwm had a confronta­tion with lwr son at school. 
Dr\11isP Conkright, 40. is chargPd with possr.ssion ol' a lir1!arm 011 school property, a 

HIV infection is the leading cause of death for Americans ages 25 to 44. 
HIV-related illness anJ death now have the greatest impact on young people. There is a substantial increase in the rntc of infection as indi­viduals enter their late teens und curly twenties, with infec­linn rates peaking in the mid­to-late twenties. Between 1990 und 1995, incidence of AIDS rose nearly 20% among Americans ages 13 lo 25 and hy more than 130% among young heterosexual men anJ women. 
Total abstinence from sexual activity is the only sure way to prevent .<1exual transmission of HIV infection 
class D felony, carrying a handgun without a permit. a rlass A misdemt1anor, and intimidation. Her trial is set for March 28. 
During a hearing Monday, a judgfl ordered Conkright not to havCT rontact with the four Crawfordsville lligh School studr.nts shr> is accused of threatr.ning Nov. 8 in the school parking lot. 
Conkright allegedly 
approached the l'our students, 
showed them a handgun hid­
den bi,neath her shirt and told 
them she had a bullet for oach ·or thnm. 
Tho incident occurred after 
Conkrighl's son allegedly drew 
unllattcring pictures of class­
mates and posted them on 
school lockers. 
A boy then challenged 
Conkright's son, telling him to 
stop posting the pictures. 

A Kiss is just a Kiss ... 
The AIDS virus is not spread by  spread by: sexual activity with  
kissing, hugging, shaking  an infected partner, sharing IV  
hands, or eating from the same  needles and other equipment,  
container.  HIV isn't spread by  infected mother to fetus &  
mosquitoes or by donating  breast feeding, receiving infect­ 
organs, blood, or tissue. HIV is  ed blood organs, or body tissue.  

How does alcohol abuse relate to HIV/AIDS? 
Alcohol abuse impairs your judgment about who you're with and what you're doing. Heavy drinking limits your ability Lo communi­cate effectively. Alcohol abuse is a major factor in unplanned and unintentional sexual activity. Heavy drinking damages the immune system itself--increasing risk of infections. 
Behavior associated with alcohol and other drug abuse is the leading cause of new HIV infections. 
Alcohol abuse contributes to the spread of HIV when individuals engage in risky, unintentional sexual behaviors that they might not engage in when sober. Numerous studies have documented that alcohol abusers and other drug users are at risk for HIV through both drug-related and sexual behaviors, which places their partners at risk. Noninjection drugs (such as "crack" cocaine) also contribute lo the spread of the AfDS epidemic when users trade sex for drugs or money. Sharing syringes and other equipment for drug injection also transmits the HIV/AIDS virus. 
Injection drug use impacts all individual--not only the drug user. People who engage in sexual activity with an injection drug user ( IOU) also are at risk for infection through the sexual transmission of HIV. In addition, children horn to HIV+ mothers may become infected. Since the epidemic began, injection drug use has directly and indirectly accounted for more than one-third (36%) of AIDS cases in the US. This disturbing trend appears to be continuing. 
!DU-associated AIDS accounts for a larger proportion of cases among women than among men.Since the epidemic began, 59% of all AIDS cases among women have been allributed to injection drug use or sexual activity with IDU partners. 
This message brought to you by PILLARS and Alcohol and Drug Education. 3 I I Lafortune • hone 63 I-7970 • ND.aldru . I @nd.edu 
Church, female pastor leave Convention 
It's rare f'or Southern Baptist
A•sodated Press 
congregations to hire women pastors or to face sanctions if
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 

they do. NonethelCTss, it's a hotWhen members of University 
issue in the denomination. saidBaptist Church chose the Rev. 
llerb Hollinger, a spokesman
l\nnette Hill Briggs as their for the Southern Baptistpastor earlier this year, they Convention. Most Southern
thrust the church into the mid­
Baptist pastors would probably
dle of a feud. 
say the Bible does noL supportFor the past decade, moder­hiring female senior pastors,ates and conservatives in the 
Hollinger said.
Southern Baptist Convention But "it's still a local church
have be1rn debating whether 
issue," he said.
women can serve as senior "This issue of' women as
pastors. The debate hinges on 
senior pastors is the last
the intMpretation of Bible pas­stronghold" in the battle over
sages. 

women's ordination, said
University Baptist quit the 
Briggs. a graduate of' tho
r.onvention in September, as Southern Baptist Theological
the State Convention of' 
Seminary in Louisville.
Baptists in 
Baptist

Indiana was 
Womon in

poi:;cd to "Sometimes you have 
Ministry. a

declare that the 
to do what God 
Missouri-based

75-member 
wants and not what group that sup­
church "stands ports the ordi­
in violation of a denomination 
nation or

the principles of 
wants." 
women, said

Scripture and that by 1998,
outside the com­monly held Mike Campbell 
the last year for which figures

beliefs of University Baptist dmrch 
are available,

[ndiana Baptists 
member 
by calling a • 
woman to be 
senior pastor." 
Said church member Mike Campbell: "Sometimes you have to do what God wants and not what a denomination wants." 
The church's withdrawal from the 15. 9 million-member national convention under­scores the conflict among Southern Baptists over the interpretation of the Bible. a conflict as divisive as the one created when conservatives took the helm of the nation's largest Protestant church group in 1990. At issue is the freedom of a local congrega­tion to follow its own heart and its own reading of Scripture, and the group's national gov­erning body's right to regulate its members. 
The Rev. Woody Cumbie, pastor of Northside Baptist Church in Indianapolis and president of Indiana's state Baptist convention, said the issue is not women being called into the ministrv. 
"The issue that surfciced here is. 'Is the office of senior pastor an option?' And in my view­point it is not," he said. 
Southern 
Baptist churches 
had ordained 

1,324 women to the ministry. Just fewflr than 100 Southern Baptist churches had hirfld women as thnir top pastors or co-pastors. That figure is about twice the number of' femaln senior pastors from 1993, thn organization said. 
Southern Baptists who oppose female sCTnior pastors rely heavily on passages in tho New Testament's book of I Timothy, which reads, "a woman should learn in quiet­ness and full submission. I do not permit a woman to teach or to have authority over a man," according to the Now International Version transla­tion ol' the Bible. 
But others say even tho most conservative Southern Baptist churches don't follow every­thing in the Bible literally. Most Southern Baptist churches don't require women to covCTr their hair in church or condone slavery, llollinger said. 
"I think what they do is they prioritize it." II olli nger said. The debate over women as senior pastors "is a lcadflrship issue. That's a priority issue, at least in Baptist life." 
"As You Wish" "@'·
"'.;:_,)­
IMPORTS ., , ,.I , 
Silver Rings. & Toe Rings Sarongs from Bali Jewelry Tapestries Sweaters Accessories And much much morel 
Gautemala. Mexico • Bali • Thailand. India • Ecuador 
Incredible Pricesll Great Christmas Gifts!! Clearance Corned! 
10¾ C>iscoll'\tS for St. Mary's Students with I.ti.fl 
Procuds fl'llm soles of Jawclry guarantee the loving hands of _&uatemolan families 3 times their avtrage SQlary, as well as furies for their cdutot1on, 
La Fortune -Room 108 
(near telephones) 
Nov. 29 -Dec. 4 
{Saturdayf) 10am-5pm 
Please recvcle The Observer 



----,--­
. 

page 8 The Observer . WASHINGTON NEWS Wednesday, December 1, 1999 
Egyptian officials cooperate with U.S. in crash investigation 
. Public reacts angrily to U.S. suspecting co-pilot 
Associated Preos 
WASHINGTON 

FBI agents have examined aircraft and personnel records in Egypt and participated in interviews there, FBI Director Louis Freeh said Tuesday as he praised Egyptian coopera­tion with the investigation of EgyptAir 990's crash. 
"The cooperation has been very, very good," Freeh told reporters at FBI headquarters. 
Although Egyptian govern­ment objections halted the 
U.S. National Transportation Safety Hoard's plan to turn over control of the investiga­
tion to the PBI as a potential criminal case, Freeh raised no complaints with the role Egyptian investigators have played. 
"We have done quite a bit of work with them, including some interviews in Egypt just recently completed," Freeh said. "And we got access ­together with the safety board ­in Cairo to personnel records, aircraft records." 
"There's a whole series of things we've requested," he added. "We have furnished the Egyptians with a list of partic­ular investigative lead,s that we need to have covered. Obviously they need to cover them." 
"We have not had any of our requests turnnd down," Freeh added. He noted some requests are still being evalu­ated and need to move recorders. But last week, Gen. through the Egyptian police Issam Ahmed, who heads the and court system. Egyptian Transportation 
The Egyptian public reacted Ministry's flight training pro­angrily when word leaked that gram, blamed the crash on an 
U.S. investigators suspect that explosion. a relief co-F r e e h 
pilot, Gameel declined to
"We have done quite a bit
EI-Batouty, for respond to unknown rea­ofwork with them, the uproar sons. sent the including some in Egypt: Boeing 767 "I'm not
interviews in Egypt just
into the steep going to dis­dive that car­recently completed." cuss what ried all 217 any non­aboard to their police offi­
Louis Freeh
deaths in the cials have
FBI director
Atlantic Ocean said," off Mass-F r e e h achusetts Oct. 31. spoke with Hall again on 
NTSB Chairman James Hall Tuesday morning. "We're has said no evidence of an going to start a recovery oper­explosion or mechanical prob­ation at tho crash site in the lem has surfaced in the next couple weeks," Freeh plane's flight and cockpit said, adding that recovery will be a joint FBI-safety board operation. So far only the cockpit and flight recorders have been brought from the Atlantic floor, and investiga­tors would very much like to recover the cockpit itself. Bodies of victims also would be a recovery priority. 
The bureau has hundreds of agents assigned to checking out the plane's history and that of any person who had contact with it in the days before the crash. Freeh said there was no timetable for deciding whether to turn the lead over to the FBI. 
"I know it's been made an issue as to who is the lead agency," Freeh said. "But the investigation is going to pro­ceed whether the FBI stays in a subordinate role or a lead role." 

WWII 'Code talkers' honored 
Comanche "code talkers," who said.
Associated Press 

TONIGHT~
frustrated enemy efforts to Chibitty and 16 other 
decode Army messages. Comanche Indians were
WASIIINGTl,N 

'' I wonder why they had to recruited to serve in the Army 
Fifty-five years after he and 
wait so long to recognize us," Signals Corps because of their FEMINIST 
16 other Comanche Indians 
he said in accepting the unique language. Like the
played a secret role in protect­
Knowlton Award, established larger group of Navajo Indians 
ing U.S. military messages on 
by the Military Intelligence who performed a similar ser­
the European battlefields of COLLECTIVE
Corps Association and named vice as Marines in the Pacific 
World War 11, Charles Chibitty 
for Lt. Col. Thomas Knowlton, theater during World War II,
received a special award from 
who served in the the Comanches were dubbed 
MEETING @ 9PM AT
the Army on Tuesday for 
Revolutionary War. "code talkers." 
extraordinary service. 
Kevin Gover, assistant interi­The Comanches coded mes­
The Comanches' efforts 
or secretary for Indian affairs, sages from the battlefields in 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
were particularly important 
noted the historic irony of the Europe back to division head­
during and after the Allied honor. quarters, where another of landings at Normandy in June "My agency, the Bureau of their group decoded the mes­1944. Indian Affairs, dedicated itself sages, thereby confounding In a ceremony at the for the first half of this century enemy efforts to steal U.S. Pentagon's Hall of Heroes, to destroying the native lan­communications. They used Chibitty, 78, noted that he is guages that proved to be so the Comanche phrase "posah­the last surviving member of useful to our armed forces tai-vo," or crazy white man, to 
the elite group known as during World War II," Gover refer to Adolf Hitler. 
Free is good. If it's something you can actually use. Which means that X:Drive's all good. 
X:Drive is the first Internet hard 
drive on the desktop. Difference is, 
you can access X:Drive anywhere, 

anytime. (A major breakthrough for schoolwork. And R&R.) 
Let's say you're doing a group grope. Think how much easier things'll go when everyone has access to the same files, projects and presentations. No matter where they are on campus. (Or the planet.) It's perfect for individual projects, too. Like term papers, essays, and resumes-even if you share a computer. 'Cause your X:Drive files are password-protected. 
More good news. X:Drive gives you 25MB of space free. (That's about the same as the 17 virus-infected floppies you won't have to schlep around anymore.) Which brings us to another nifty feature. X:Drive lets you grab MP3s, video, groovy pix from the Web in seconds while you keep surfing. 
So, go to www.xdrive.com and lock 

and load. X:Drive's a real bar­
gain. In fact, it's the best 
freebie on the Web. 
! 

Desktop f') Jll My Computer 
•+. ~ Floppy (A: I 
:;c: jJI Hard Drive (C:) 
l+'. ....:,' CD-Rom(D:) 
(f. · IJ Zip Drtve (E} 
'" ..&X:Orive 1x,1 8 D Public · .DMusic: MP3s 
DHistory Study Group 

SD Private 
DResume 
DPhotos 

~i ~ Ne\work N_eighborhood • • ··:::J Recycle 81n 
L__________ 
-.tit&·Atlii·h._J 

Wt.:dncsday, Dect:mber l, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Death penalty opponents protest Fleenor execution 


§ponsoired foir the Junioir Class of 200l Wednesday, Deco 8 at Union Station 
$5.00 JP><eir tidket 
By JR ROSS 
&~oi.:i.,tni Pre~~ 
ll11ath pnnalty opponents say 
D.11. Flc1rnor isn't nwnlallv com­pntnnl enough to undnrstl;nd his prmding nxnrulion. 
But proving lhlll Lo n court of law won't be easy. 
Fl1H!nor is schndulnd lo be 11x1\cULNI Dec. <J l'or Uw murders of his p,trnnts-in-l11w 17 yoars a~o. and dforts to prove he's nwntal\y unfit to bf' put lo drntlh will b1\ diffir.ult, said Iliclrnrd l>inter. dirn<:tor of' tlrn lJ1,alh l'Pnalty lnl'nrmal.inn C!'ntPr in 
QUALITYService• Student Discounts • Gift Certl ·cates • Guaranteed Satisfaction! 
Wibatt·: 
~o.ur 
1Prlam·?
J.... !'f'I, "-'" ....,. .... ...... l.. ~ 
CERTIFIED Instructors • DESIGNER Tanning with ADVANCED TANNING Systems SUPER Sh.e Beds & Bootha t CLEAN&: SANITARY! t CREDIT CARDS Ac.cepted I OPEN 7 Days 

Washington. D.C. on Monday callt>d for a halt to 
lie said the Supreme Court execution proceedings, even has rulod that if a deJ'ondant is though Fleenor refused to mentally inr.omp11tent and can't attend his own clemency hear­r.umprehcnd what's happening, ing last week and reportedly an execution can't proceed. Still, told one board member to show even a basic childlike under­him no mercy. standing of right and wrong can "Killing Mr. Fleenor isn't satisfy the court's standard. going to fix a right or wrong, 
"Ir you can simply answer the but show the state our society is question 'Do you know why you in." said Lynne DeMichole, a art> about t.o be t>xecutt>d and spokeswoman for the Indiana what executed means?', if you /\fothodist Church and member can answer vns to lhat, that's of the Indiana Citizens to usually t>nough with _som1~ sense Abolish Capital Punishment. that it's an intdligenl answer." which staged a news conference Oietnr said. in Indianapolis. 
Still. death penalty opponents Fleenor had already exhaust­ed all of' his appP.als at the statr, and federal level when he reportedly refused to attend a hearing before the clemency board last week. 



Board member Raymond Rizzo, who was dispatched to rJeenor's cell to make a person­al pica for him to attend the hearing, said he did everything he could Lo urge Fleenor to face the board. 
"He said: 'You tell them this' -and he repeated it twice ­he said: 'Tell them I'm guilty and to show me no mercy,"' Hizzo said. 
But Alan Freedman. at attor­ney with the anti-death penalty Midwest CP-ntflr for Justice in Chicago who once represented r!eenor, said Fleenor is incom­petent to make rational deci­sions on his own behalf and claimed the statement Fleenor made to Rizzo was inconsistent wiLh previous conversations he'd had with him. 
Freedman said he received Fleenor's prison records Monday morning after the Indiana Supreme Court granted him permission to review the documents and would use them to determine if he could file a petition contesting Flecnor's competence. 
"We do believe he's unfit to be executed, and we're evaluating what we can do next," he said. 
Freedman and Tom Schornhorst. an emeritus law professor at Indiana University and member of the Indiana Citizens to Abolish Capital Punishment, have already been rebuffed in their efforts to rep­resent Fleenor in clemency hearings. 
U.S. District .I udge David II. Hamilton ruled Nov. 4 ,that rlcenor showed no int.crest. in having either attorney reprcsnnt him and did not want the clemency hearings lo go l'or­ward. 
"The court sees no reason to force such proceedings upon him, let alone force upon him lawyers he does not want." Hamilton wrote. 
Flnenor is scheduled to b11come the seventh person !\XC­cutod in Indiana since the state reauthorized tho death penalty in 1977. 
He was sentr1nced to di,~ in .Johnson County al'tor he was convicted in the murdnrs of Bill and Nyla llarluw. his parnnts­in-law. 
According to tnstimony and court records. Fleenor attendnd an evening church scrvicn with his wifo. Samlrn Sedam, and hnr parents. th,1 llarlows. on Df'c. 12, 1982. 
I le stayed briefly before lflav­ing, When Sedam and her par­c n ts returned to their home. Fleenor appnared in thn hallway and shot Bill llarlow with a handgun. 
Ile ordered Sedam, Mrs. Ilarlow and his thrne childrnn to sit on a couch. Ile allowed Mrs. Harlow to go to her husband. then shot lrnr in the head. 
Bill Harlow survived for a while. but Fleenor said, "I can't let him suffer," and shot him again before fleeing to Tennessee with his wil'e and three children. 




----,,,..--• 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q. Norrc Dame. IN 46556 024 South Oming Hall, Notre Dame, !N 46556 
EmTOR IN CHIEF Michelle Krupa 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogero  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Perelle  

NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen SPORTS EmroR, Hrian Kessler 
SCENE EDITOR: Michael Vanegas SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalum 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Bryan Lurz 

AD DESIGN MANAGER: Bret Huelac SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushro 
CoNrnourn, Timothy Lane GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INFO...........631-747] FAX.............................................................631-6927 ADVERTISING....................... ..............63 l-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF.. ......................................631-4542 MANAGING EmrnRIAssT. ME.................... 631-454 I BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. J@nd.edu 
VIEWP0INT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoinc. l@nd.edu SPORTS.......................................................631-4543 observer.spam. J@nd.edu SCENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY's............................................. 631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOTO........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
VlSit our Web site a, http://ob,erver.nd.edu for daily updares ofcampus news, sporrs, features and opinion columns, a.swell as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from rhe Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-co-the 

movies/music for 
minure forecasrs 

weekly student reviews 
advertise for policies 

online features for spe­
and rates of print ads 

cial campus coverage 
archives to search for 

about The Observer 
articles published after 

to meet the editors and 
staff
August 1999 

POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in print and on line by the students ofthe Uni,·ersity ofNocre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Edicorial comenc, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on comem. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Ut1signed editorials represent the opit1ion of the majority ofrhe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commemaries, letters and columns presenr che views ofche authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. letters ro the Editor must be sif;ned 011d must include contact infurm.irion. 
Qumions regarding Obsen,er policies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMichdlr Kmpn. 
O
THE 

BSERVER Wednesday, December 1, 1999 
Native American roots are our lifeblood 
"The earth does not belong to man, man belongs to the earth. All things are connected, like the blood Lhat unites us all. Man did not weave the web of life, he is but a strand in it; whatever he does to the web, he 
does to himself." ­Chief Seattle (a.k.a. Chief Seal'th). ­
American Trees. Native Roots. 
Consciousne'ss can be a long time coming. even whfln the ironies of life sit but a breath apart. 

Childhood friends 
and I would argue Mel Tardy 
about who was to be cowboys. No one wanted to be 
I d. Th lil'e at ND
n tans. ey were v• the "bad guvs," the ones to be chased and killed ... just like on TV. Later, after we'd had our fill of shooting and scalping, we'd hap­pily switch gears to spend the rest of the day prkking fingers, prossin{i them to the neighbors' and producing 'blood brothers." 
Juxtaposing such dual. inconsistent realities (i.e. stereotype vs. heritage) is common in America. The "Black mammy", considered vulgar, filthy and more ape than human by some white folk often reared more of "massa's kids" than did mommy. Try to attribute her caring ways to massa's training or instinct, and you'd miss the influence of African values passed down from her mother's ancestors. In classic Gemini double-speak, we Americans freely per­petuate the insulting, stereotypical views about some so-called "savage," yet so value the heritage of that so­called "savage" that we usher it into our home and claim it as our own. 
Clearly, we treat our native peoples in this fashion. We regard them as walk­ing museum stock, as embers of yester­day's bonfire. To them, we give nothing. Yet, separate "Native" from "America" and WE have nothing. With no "Native" in "America," we perish on the South Dakota trails with Lewis and Clark. With no "Native" in "America", we stand in a sea of maize dying of thirst; seething and salty, while turkeys fly South overhead in Thanksgiving of a harsh New England winter. Take Native from America, and what Columbus dis­covers is the long, lost path of anonymi­ty. 
Just as we'd rarely guess the great­ness of Africa's ancient civilizations by her colonial-shocked inhabitants of today. at first glance, we might assume that our founding fathers built American society solely on the rugged backs and ingenuity of its European set­tlers. Jack Weatherford, in "How The Indians Enriched America," opens our consci9usness to a different reality. 
Chop down any Redwood or Sequoia to a stump, and its roots would still reach into prehistoric America. Having absorbed one or two thousand years of information, imagine the stories those old roots could tell, if only we knew to ask! Perhaps they'd be stories of majes­tic, ancestral glory or of pestilence and fires survived. Certainly, they could ver­ify Weatherford's point that the her­itages of America's indigenous peoples by FAR preceded Columbus. 
Perhaps 20 to 30 million lived here before the arrival of Columbus (and European diseases. which -introduced maliciously, at times -consumed near­ly 90 percent of the native population). Massacres spurred by so-called "Manifest Destiny" killed many others. Despite this slaughter, the roots of native heritage still flow freely to all that is American. For confirmation, we need not the silent voices of Redwoods -just open our budding eyes to the evidence embedded in American land­marks, names and customs. 

Like Egypt in Africa, the great Aztec, lncan, Mayan and Cahoki.an civiliza­tions -predecessors of the Cherokeo, Navajo, Polowatomi and other modern­era tribes -were enormously succQps­ful. A thousand vears before Columous, their trade routes ran from Quebec through St. Louis and the Mississippi Valley to California and even Central America. Techniques to build pyramids, irrigate crops, perform surgery, admin­ister antiseptics, control forest fires and peacefully govern all existed. Ironically, Weatherford notes, excavating below any major American city would unearth remnants of an indigenous society; they knew where best to build, thus European settlers often just grafted themselves onto the trunks of these prior civilizations. 
What George W. Carver did for the peanut. native inhabitants long ago did with corn (maize), tobacco, cotton, squash and beans, plus numerous other plants and medicinal herbs. In fact, says Weatherford, Native Americans not only taught colonists how to survive using indigenous crops, they also taught those city-boys how to grow their own EUROPEAN ones! Ironically, when later mass-produced, using stolen Native American land and African slave labor, the native crops were what fueled America's economic prosperity and global dominance. 
Explorers, says Weatherford, inclined to name surroundings for themselves, loved ones or monarch sponsors, quick­ly found that "America already had its own names" -many for things never encountered by Europeans. The farther inland they traveled, the more they adopted names offered by Native· American guides: buffalo, squirrel and coyote; canoe, pumpkin and mocc.asin; Ohio, Illinois and Chicago (i.e. place of smellv weeds or onions.) 
Indeed, the Fightin' Irish have battled "Indian" teams all season: Kansas, Oklahoma, Arizona, Michigan. Michigan State and Tennessee are ALL names of Native American origin. 
Far most of America, our names lack memory, meaning ... roots! Is igno­rance the path to truth or just situation­al sanity? Maybe we should ask Columbus. 
We wake slowly to the world around us. Like infants learning depth percep­tion, we reach out at things only to find that they aren't what we thought. Cowboy and Indian movies; the Lone Ranger's Tonto; Underdog's buck­toothed, gibberish-speaking "Go-Go Gopher Indians" ("Whoopie doopie! You am GENIUS!!"): are these our Mississippi pyramid builders? The Washington Redskins; Chief Wahoo, mascot of the Cleveland Indians; Atlanta Brave fans doing the tomahawk chop this is the heritage we "give" of our Thanksgiving brethren? How ironic the name, then, "Indian giver." 
My junior year at ~otre Dame, I had a buddv: Virgil Hill. We often ate dinner togc.ther, shot hoops or hung out. I knew Virge was Native American, but left it at that. Then one day, I asked him about life on a reservation. Now, my mother had often said: ''We (blacks) have it bad, but the Indians have it worse." As Virgil spoke about rampant alcoholism and suicide, pathetic drop­out rates, poor roads and buildings, her statement came to mind. On his reser­vation, just getting INTO college was success. I wondered, how had I not known such things? Then I realized: who had l ever asked·! ... who had I ever known TO ask' 
· Ahhh, what we could learn if only we 
asked, eh'? Last week, the University 
celebrated Native American Week. 
Nationwide, November is Native 
American Month. Yet, most of us 
haven't a clue about either. The real 
irony, of course, is that we ought to cel­
ebrate our Native American roots every 
day! Don't we realize, thfiy are our 
LIFEBLOOD! Their blood flows through 
our veins. We are, indeed, blood rela­
tives, connected as one. We cut them off 
at our own risk. 
Perhaps the greatest irony lies with the Iroquois Nation. Initially six bitter rivals, they found more value in form­ing a united league of nations. It wasn't easy -they still had quarrels, but they learned how to survive differences and prosper. In fact, according to Reader's Digests' ''Through Indian Eyes," they were "a fine working example of repre­sentative democracy, with an unwritten constitution that spelled out checks and balances, rules of procedure, limits of power. and a stress on individual liber­ty." For a national emblem, the Iroquois chose a Tree of Peace, guarded by the fierce Eagle of native lore. In its talons: six arrows, representing its six nations. 
Sound familiar? It should. If anyone doubts that our nation is indebted to the wisdom of its native peoples, con­sider that the above served as the very inspiration for Ben Franklin's "Albany Plan," the model from which arose the Constitution for a United States of America -whose own national emblem, ironically, is a bald eagle, clutching within its talons 13 arrows: one for each of its original 13 colonies. Once again, we find the heritage of the so-called "savage" ushered into our home; claimed as if our own ... but, what place for our Native Americans? 
Consciousness can be a long time 
coming, indeed. 
Perhaps now, I can play the "Indian." 
Let the Puritan cowboy travel the path 
to anonymity! 1instead, in a spirit of' 
thanksgiving, will take my children to 
Pow Wows, to reservations and to the 
library ... to learn. l will support a 
national holiday for Native Americans. 
Yes, I -the former "cowboy" -may 
even revisit the Cherokee heritage of 
my own great-grandparents. 
Meanwbile, America, knowing that 
truth is clean and clear, please ... take 
one, deep breath. 
Mel Tardy is an assistant profession­
al specialist at the First Year ofStudies 
The views expressed in this column 
are those ofthe author and not neces­
sarily those ofThe Observer. 
DILBERT 
I THOUGHT 'YOU  SO 1 CAME INTO  
WE.RE TE.LECOMMUT­ Tl-IE OffICE TO  
ING TODA"f.  GET SOME REST  
AND BE  
PAMPERED.  

0 .!:
. 
ii 
.!!
... 
..
., C 
.. i ~ • 

SCOTT ADAMS 
FORTUNATEL"f, M"f 
PAJAMAS LOOK EXAClLY LIKE WORK CLOTHES . 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Freedom is an indivisible word. Ifwe want to enjoy it, and fight for it, we must be pre­pared to extend it to everyone" 
Wendell Lewis Willkie author 


VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, December I, 1999 OBSERVER page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Four wisemen get dream trip through Maji 
According to tradition lhnre were  an Alaskan hillsidP. ThPy engaged in a  
LhniP wise nwn. an infcrc11cc drawn  whimsical debate over Santa's where­ 
bncausP Matthew mentions three gifts;  abouts during their visit to North Polo,  
gold, f'rankincnnsc, and myrrh.  Alaska, and they shared a raucous  
As for me. lrnwnvcr, I know lhe  restaurant meal that must have rivaled  
names nf four wis~ m1m, and 11!' a fifth  any feast that Mary, Jospeh. and those  
<•qually wisn woman. My l'riend  first wise men shared that original  
Margan~t is tlrn official travel agent for  Christmas in Bethlehem. In my view,  
Magi. Actually, lrnr job is lo plan travel  these five undertook a journey no less  
expt>rinnces for developmentallydis­ amazing than that first trek to find the  
ablPd adults. But honnstly, I doubt that  holy babe. Daily they opened up their  
many or us travel with a sonsn of  own gifts: deep and frequent laughter,  
excitm1wnt and anticipation that more  abundant and simple wonder. cheerful  
closP!y approximates Matthew's Magi  and genuine care for one another, and  
than do Margarnt's clinnts. These per­ the sheer joy of traveling together.  
sons. what,wnr th11ir "dis"-ability have  Four men. thus, four gifts. And  
un almost limillnss "cap"-abillty to go  Margaret, she has a gift. entirnly her  
pl1u:l's Pnnq1t by wonder. Once a ynar.  own. She knows, with uncanny insight  
both as a way to kl'np a "hands on"  and with contagious compassion, what  
connnction to lwr work ­and just  it is to follow stars to unknown places  
hl'causf' slrn m1joys it -Margarnt  and there to encounter unexpected  
hPrnnws onf' of Ihnse sojourning Magi  wonder afttff wonder. But, best of all. it  
lwrsdl'. serving as trav1~1 lmuler/com­ is hnr parlicular gift to find joy in mak­ 
panion on rnw of lwr own plannml  ing such journeys available to others.  
('X('llrsiOllS.  It's just a hunch, but I bet that wherev­ 
This past sumnwr Margarc•t accom­ er her trips go, Jnsus is always found  
pani1•cl faldiP, .lohn. Paul and K,~nny  somewhcru along the way, happy to  
(four nwn ranging in agn from their  receive the gifts or her travelers even if  
iith• JOs to tlmir uarly ?Os) on u trip to  thoy'rn not so exotic .as gold. frankin­ 
Alaska. Tlwrn they travtlled for an  cnnsn and myrrh. Then, again, perhaps  
enlirn wnPk, q11ilr1. literally "wise men  tlrny are.  
from llw East," in Margaret's grncious  
company.  David R. Weiss  
Tlwy nnjoyml a lmat-sidn nncounter  Luther College  
with a gfacinr. a brnath-taking view of  November 29, 1999  
Mt. McKinlny, and un aftnrnoon of pick­ 
ing ­and Paling ­wild blueberries on  


Alum supports Observer's decision 
I am a nwmber or GAi.A ND/SMC and was on campus this past weekend with my daught<1r for Urn BC game. She is a sophomore in high school and I hope she will follow i11 her fathnr's footsteps of being a Domer. I saw the add in The Observer, and was quite ph~nsed to s1\c that OUTreachND was making a positive step for­ward in commtmicating to your fellow students who may be at risk duo to condi­tions oul...,ide of thnir control. 
I 1~11j11y coming back to campus with a number of fond memories. I wish that a group such as yours was available wlwn I was a student. It would have made things a lot 1~asiPr to d1!al with. 
I nncourngo OUTreachND to up tho good work. and Tho Observer for your courngo to run llw add! Maybe onn day the administration will become unlight­1•11Pcl and support 1wnryo1rn's right to celebrate lifo the way we were intcnde<J to. 
Jack Bergen Clas, of'77 Novemhcr 24, 1999 

Wild WoD1en encounter restaurant racislll 
Last Friday night, two Walsh women went to Chili's for supper with 11ve of their African-American Notre Dame friends. It turned out not to be a fun evening_ During their two and a half hour wait for a table, it was obvious the group was being ignored as other parties, larger and smaller, were being seated ahead of them, 
According to the facts, the hostesses gave the group the idea that they would be seated together and that a table was being prepared for this, when in fact. they were collaborating with the people at the table to make the group wait longer. 
When tbe people at the table finally did get up to leave, words were exchanged between the two groups and the guys threatened our "wild women" (not acting at all wild at this point) with comments about lynching and getting shotguns to take care of the bitches. 
The manager refused to call the police, forced our group to leave and throaterwd them with trespassing charges. Police finally did arrive because someone in our group made a cell phone call. Yet the reactions of the police who finally arrived Wllre to once again threaten our group with trespassing, make light of the whole situation, allow one of the guys to flee from the scene before he was questioned and would not escort our group back to campus. 
In a gesture of solidarity, support or whatever you want to call it, I am putting out a rnquest that we, as the students of Notre Dame, take at least one small step and refuse to go to Chili's anymore. with friends. at times when our families are in town. etc. I love Chili's food and have always received good service. but this situation is simply not just. 
Cristobal Saldana Senior Dillon Hall November 16, 1999 


'Shirt' off manager's back is a great guest gift 
Iii, my name is Peter Fratoni, my girlfriend Vickin Mooty and I went to the Navy game this year and of course had a great time visiting as many places on and off campus as possible. 
We drove up from Mocksville, N.C., on the Wednesday bnforn the gamn, rested at a nearby motel then ventured over to the bookstore for our souvenirs. We then had some dinner and off to meet the players after practice for pictures and autographs. 
Trying to get as many as we could, we found ourselves at the stadium wailing for the rest of the players to r.ome out after they changed for more autographs and pic­tures. 
All the while we were conversing with the student managers. I noticed that one manager was wearing "The Shirt." 
I asked him where he got the shirt. he responded, "At tho bookstore." I told him I have all of the previous years' shirts, but the employees at llw bookstore told me that they were all out of them and did not expect to get any more in. I was very dis­appointed because my collection was in jeopardy. 
As time went by that Thursday evening and the players were filtnring out and off to their destinations, Vickie and I continued talking with Mr. Dan Coolny, about Notrn Dame football of course. 
Mr. Cooley was preparing to lock up the facility, and as he did so he walked with us part way around the stadium. Ito asked ifwo would be coming back this yoar. I replied. not this year. but we will be back next year. 
Mr. Cooley, then, without hesitation, literally gave me "The Shirt" off his back so I can continue my collection. The spirit at Notre Dame lives on, now and fornvcr. Yes, folks, it's not just a University, it's the University or Notre Dame. 
Peter Fratoni 
Mocksville, North Carolina November 16,_1'!99 

'. 

O
TIIE page 12 BSERVER Wednesday, December I, 1999 
TELEVISION ANALYSIS 
Post-Clooney 'ER' gets back to normal 
By MICHAEL VANEGAS Scene Editor 
It's Thursday night. Do you know where your doctor is7 
If you need serious medical attention, maybe the answer to this question is rather important. 
If not. then all you have to do is switch to NBC and watch the good doctors and nurses from "ER" strut their stuff and tend to their heart-reviv­ing stunts in the emergency room and beyond. 
Yrs, that's right. "ER" is back, and it's as good as it's ever been. 
The NBC touchstone hit the lowest of lows last season. as the b·uildup to George Clooney's exit weighed the show down with too much with Clooney's patented eye twitch and head bow. 
Clooney's Dr. Ross. who was wholly underdeveloped and uninteresting since the show's inception, received a goodbye only fit for a king. And a king is the furthest thing one can call Dr. Ross. 
Despite the star factor -Clooney was probably the biggest starlet among the large "ER" cast -the actor never allowed viewers to understand the importance of the pediatrician with the Ceasar 'do. To say Dr. Ross was an enigma would be a bit too flattering concerning Clooney's acting ability. The correct description would be instead as a weak link in an otherwise heavy duty chain. The pediatrician never really fit around the quality of hi~ "supporting" actors Anthony Edwards' Dr. Green. Julianna Margulies' nurse Hathaway, Eriq La Salle's Dr. Benton and the various other docs and nurses. 
The point remains: The 1998-99 season of "ER" was ruined by the high profile departure of Clooney. 
Once gone, though. "ER" became very much worth watching. 
It all began with an entire episode devoted to Dr. 
NIELSEN RATINGS 

Renton's vacation deep in the Though they have not been South, where racism is still · alotted their share of story­intense and African-American lines, as is usual to new char­doctors froIT\ Chicago aren't acters, there is certainly easily accepted. But Lt,i Salle potential for Michael pulled off the solo as he used Michele's Dr. Cleo Finch, 
· his tough demeanor and heav­Goran Visnjic's Dr. Luka ily guarded heart to do the Kovak, Erik Palladino's Dr. right thing and h<~lp those Dave and even Kellie Martin's southerners oul. More than Lucy Knight (in her sopho­anything, the episode provid­more season). ed a strange closure to the Dr. For the elder statcspcople in Ross debacle. the ER -Dr. Green, Dr. 
But, hey, how could the Weaver (Laura Innes), nurse "ER" writers completely elimi­Hathaway, Dr. Carter and Dr. nate Ur. Ross from their Benton -they've all been dreams? given a chance or two to Hex 
To continue the reign of Dr. their muscles this season with Ross, they wrote his seed into new or deeper stories to the script, impregnating nurse weave through. Hathaway not once, but twice. Dr. Green is having sex with 
Which brings the show to assistant chief of staff Dr. the present; Nurse Hathaway Elizabeth Corday (Alex gave birth to twin girls on the Kingston). Dr. Weaver is the · show's Thanksgiving episode. newly appointed and regular­Though these babies are the ly arrogant chief of the ER. first step to writing Hathaway Dr. Carter had an affair with off the show as well -it is a breast cancer victim and old well known she will exit the friend (Rebecca De Mornay. in show by the end of this season another career comeback). -the personal drama with And perhaps the most moving which the episode was written storyline of the season thus and performed demonstrated far, Dr. Benton dealt with the how "ER" is only getting possibility of losing his son, stronger post-Clooney. biologically and geographical­
Unfortunately for viewers, ly. the new season has already Most importantly, the emer­seen the farewell of one of the gency room is once again hav­more talented and special ing fun. Except for the fact actors -Gloria Rueben. that the producers of the Rueben's Jeanie Boulet, a show have manifested their physician's assistant in the love of reality by showing ER, provided the most explicit shots of human gutw.renching scenes, from insides for extended periods her own struggles with being of time, visiting "ER" HIV-positive to her emotional Thursday evenings is no support of dying patients longer like visiting a real (particularly Dr. Anspaugh's emergency room. son). though, thank goodness, but a easy questions fed to one John 
Rueben, who will go on to major showdown did happen. Carpenter, the game show
In other TV news

be a backup singer for Tina Mulder and Scully's lips col­finally allowed someone to Turner, certainly deserved lided in a New Year's kiss for become a millionaire. With a
. "The X-files": Mulder and

the royal departure given to the millennium. In its final sarcastic style made only in
Scully are about a month

Clooney. Instead, she had season, it probably isn't long America, Carpenter fooled
ahead of the rest of the world,

about five minutes to say her before the special agents are viewers across America by
with their millennium episode

goodbyes, toward the end of gettin' it on when the mon­using a lifeline on the last
airing this past Sunday. In the 

one of the season's early sters are asleep (it is the "X" question to tell his father he
episode, Lance Henrikson

episodes. Simply put, it was files). was going to be a millionaire.
reprised his role from Chris 

an injustice to all that is good Now national heros, Philbin
Carter's other sci-fi show

in TV land. "Millennium," which . "Who Wants to Be a and Carpenter returned
was

To help the depleted cast of Millionaire": Friend of Notre American greed to the fore­
canned this season, to help M

doctors, several new charac­Dame Regis Philbin leads ABC front of American pop culture.
and S with a millennial mon­

ters were introduced in to a Novembe·r sweeps victory. The show will return to ABC
ster showdown.

"ER '"s season premiere. The world didn't end With the help of some really in January. 

of November 22-28 


Show Rating Total Viewers 
1. ER 17.7 17 .8 million 1. Who Wants to Be a Millionaire (Wednesday) 17.7 17.8 million 3. CBS Sunday Movie: One Special Night 17 .5 17.6 million 4. Who Wants to Be a Millionaire (Monday) 17.3 17.4 million 5. Who Wants to Be a Millionaire (Tuesday) 17.2 17.3 million 6. NFL Monday Showcase 13.6 13. 7 million 7. 60 Minute5 13.0 13.1 million 
7. NFL Monday Night Football: 13.0 13.1 million 
Oakland at Denver 9. Frasier 12.2 12. 3 million 
9. Touched By an Angel 12.2 12. 3 million 

ABC's "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire" nabbed three spots in last week's Nielsen Ratings, 
Source: Associated Press 

helping the network to a November sweeps win. 


Wednesday, December I, I999 The Obmver . SPORTS page 13 
ACC/BIG TEN CHALLENGE 
.... 

ACC jumps out to 3-1 lead over Big Ten in Challenge 
Obcrvcr Staff Repon 
HALTIMOHE 
Tnrnnc(i Morris wenl 8-l'or-8 and scornd 20 points, aml Juan Dixon had 18 points as No. 24 Maryland dnl'naled Iowa 8:3-65 Tuesday night in thP Big Ten/ACC Challenge. 
l'laying its first rf'gular-season game against a Big 'fon opponont since the 1985-86 snason, Maryland scorti<I the first 10 points and never trailN!. Tim Terrapins (5-11 led by 1 I at half­t.iuw and ust•d a I 0-0 run oarly in the sncond half lo go up by 19. 
Kyle Galloway scored a career-high 18 points l'or Urn l la.wkeyes t2-3), who have lost thn~P ol' four sinn• opening lhn season by bfmt­ing dd'tmding NC,\t\ champion ConnocLicuL 
Lonny llaxlnr had I 6· points and 10 rd)Ounds f'or Urn TPrrapins, who were coming off a third-plarn finish in tho Preseason NIT. Tlw Hilly shot Mnrris missNI was at thn foul lino, wl1ern lw wPnt 4-for-:,, 
Iowa. limitml lo 35 porcnnt shooting in the first hall'. scorNI tlH' opm1ing basket ol' the sec­ond hall'. l\lorris then madn three straight bas­kHts, inrluding 11 dunk. bnforn Baxtor added a dunk anrl Danny Miller scored inside to mako it 52-:U with 16:24 ldl. 
Maryland hit ,-;pv1m of' its first ninn shots in tlw half to opon up a 20-point lead. But tho Tm-rapins. who hlfiw most of an 18-point load against Notn• llamn in tlw NIT ronsolation gamn, Int Iowa back in the ganw. 
Wake Forest 67, Wisconsin 48 
Darius Songaila had I (1 points and six rPhounds and Wako Forest combinod over­pow11ring dt'f'm1sB and rnbounding for a victory ovtir Wisconsin. 
Tlw l>Pmon l>nacons (4-0) !mid Wisconsin to :rn pnrcnnt shooting and had a 40-24 rebound­ing cdgl'. 
WakP ForPst's Craig Dawson added 12 points, and tlw D1imon Deacons also got 11 from Hoh1irl O'Kt•lley and night points, seven r<'lmunds and two stl)als f'rom Niki Arinzn. 
Mark Vershaw had 14 points for the Badgm·s t:{-2) in their lirsl-ever game on an /\CC: loam's home floor. It turned out to be a forgcittable experience for Wisconsin, wbich fl'II lwhiml by as many as 22 in the second half'. 
The game was similar to the Badgers' last visit to North Carolina, a first-round loss to Southwest Missouri State in the NCAA Tournament at the Charlotte Coliseum in March. Wisconsin scored just 32 points in that game, the lowest output in any NCAA TournamC'nt contest since the introduction of Urn shot ~lock in 1986. 
Duke 72, Illinois 69 
Duke couldn't call on Elton Brand, even though he was sealed close lo their bench Tuesday night. So. the 17th-ranked Blun Devils turned to Chris Carrawell to beat Illinois. 
Carrawell scored 21 points, including two frno throws with 14 seconds left as Duke won its fourth straight after two losses opening the season. beating No. 16 IHinois before a rau­cous crowd at the United Center. 
After Carawell's two free' throws put the Blue Devils (4-2) ahnad by thrne, Illinois' Frank Williams missed a 3-poinler, lJuke's Jason Williams rebounded and was able to dribble out tho r,lock. 
Jason Williams added 17 points and Shane Battier had 12 points and 10 rebounds for Duke. Cory Bradford and Frank Williams scornd 14 points each for Illinois (2-1). 
Brand. the Chicago Bulls' No.· 1 pick in the NBA draft after leaving Duke early, showe~ little emotion as he watched his former. team pull out the victory aftnr trailing by five at the half. 
Carrawell, Duke's lone senior, made two free throws to put the Blue Dr.vils ahead 70-66 bnfore Bradford hit two for the rilini to make it . a two-point game with 1 :37 remaining. 
t\ charging foul on Jason Williams gave the Illini the ball with 55 seconds left. Robert Archibald made one of two at theline, leaving the Illini a point behind with 41 seconds left. 
Carrawoll's game-tying thrnc-point play started a quick 10-0 Blue Devil run and put Duke up 57-50 with 9:18 to go. 
Minnesota 74, Virginia 62 
The Golden Gophers outscored the Cavaliers 34-26 in the second half to pull away and pick up the Big Ten's only win on the first day of the Big Ten/ACC Challenge. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. co 3 f.m. ac the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3' p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
..DESPERATELY SEEKING•• 
.. 

ZORICH #50 JERSEY 
NOTICES 
Will pay $$$ for ANY 
#50 ND Football Jersey! THE COPY SHOP (new/used, home/away) Lafortune Student Center I am DESPERATE' PHONE 631·COPY Help make X-Mas special 
www.CopyShopND.com for a HUGE Chris Z fan. Store Hours Call with info/offer: Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight 4-4325 Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm Sat: Noon-6:00pm ·• Chris Zonch Superfan ·• 
call Mimi x2735 Looking for 1 more roommate to move into beautiful off-campus house in R1vers1de historic district. 
WANTED 
Male or temale (currently 2 male, 1 female living there) who wants a clean, sate house and likes good 
Free CD of cool indie music when music N-Sync fans need not reply. you register at mybytes.com. the 280.00/month plus utilities. Call 
FOR SALE PERSONAL 
Spring Break Specials!Bahamas Gay, Lesbian and Bisexual Party Cruise 5 Days $279' Includes students of ND/SMC meeting each Meals! Thurs. For info call: Awesome {877)631-6OUT Beaches,Nightlife!Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights From $3991 Quality Copies, Quickly! FLdrida $129!springbreaktravel.com We're open early, late, & 

Sun: Noon-Midnight EXCELLENT compensation for marketing college products at BEST prices.Go NOW to:
LOST & FOUND http://www.akademos.com/campus­rep 
LOST: Silver Charm Bracelet lost in middle of October 
FOR RENT

High sentimental value 
x3727 -Megs 
ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE LOSl 11120 HOME FOR ND-SMC EVENTS. Blue Northface Coat VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. CASH REWARD 243-0658. 
1-800-678-6386 
Phone Cards 669min. $20 2 43-9361 or 258-4805 
SPRING BREAK 2000 PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA FROM $149 PER PERSON SAND­PIPER BEACON BEACH RESORT THE "FUN PlACE"! TIKI BEACH BAR ENTERTAIN• MENT BY BOOGIE INCORPORAT­ED BIKINI CONTESTS MALE HARD BODY CONTESTS 3 POOLS LAZY RIVER RIDE 
weekends. THE COPY SHOP Lafortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
Quality Copies, Quickly! 
Spring Break 2000 Free Trips & Meals. Jamaica,Cancun,Bahamas,Barbad os, Florida, Padre.Book now for Free Meals & 2 Free Trips.Book before Dec. 17 for LOWER PRICESII 1800-426-7710 
WATER SLIDE www.sunsplashtours.com HUGER BEACHFRONT HOT TUB MINI GOLF GIFT SHOP SUITES Looking for a unique gift idea? UP TO 10 PEOPLE How about a personalized color pie­1-800-488-8828 ture calendar? WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM Bring in 12 of your favorite pictures 
and we'll do the rest!II SPRING BREAK 2000 THE COPY SHOP Cancun, Mazatlan, Acapulco, Lafortune Student Center 

MANDATUM pq, Need one? We've got 'em in stacks! happy birthday to you Act now! Save time, trouble, and happy birthday to you $$$ by using our Hotline! Bad credi-happy birthday se-or patrick bility? No credibility? We'll fix every-happy birthday to you thingl Call 1-B00·GET-RITE and ask for Msgr. O'Riordan. ahhh-ja. 
Beach Bum Berto rules over what do you get someone who's "King Carlos" and ND is better OLD? than the Aintsl 
ahhh-ja. 
Hey ELI 

How 'bout 'dem FCs? Dally -Too much work is not good for you. 
Chuk ... the quest failed ...  Break out.  
We are pretty pathetic  
Dance.  
Turner -My tight end owned you  
all day You can't stop the offense  Break dance.  
when you throw to the tight end.  
PL•what?  
wish Bob would learn that  
Stick to pictures. They're more fun.  
Got to get the ball to Jabari  
Plus, they let you go to San Jose.  
M-Shan, Krupa, KD, Connolly and  
Kerry The west coast will never be  I'll wave to ya, study boy.  
the same  
Hey Chicas! Let's go CABOI  
ACC rules over Big 1oforever  What was that about playas and  
bebidas? I believe "hombres" was  
'Matthew-Better than all the rest,  omitted from the list?!?  
better than anyone I met ...  What's up with that?  
IN THE SUMMERI  
-Shayna  Hey Jess. You go.  

ultimate website lor your college 288-4517. Jamaica and S.Padre. Reliable needs. TWA flights. Biggest Parties & Best www.thecommentator.com Rie-how ya been? I've missed ya. Ren! is due today. Opps. 
WALK TO SCHOOL Packages. Book by Dec.1 & SAVE 
:. 

http://mmmrentals.homepage.com up to $200! 1-800-Surfs-Up www.NDToday.com Gator -sorry, but I need to post-Hey ND boys: Did you miss your Bro'wse icpt.com for Springbreak 232-2595or www.studentexpress.com pone my appointment at the Ghetto first chance to fine-tune your cud­"2000".AII destinations ottered. mmm.renlals@aol.com Salon. Will sometime today work? dling skills with three cuddling­
'BB FORD RANGER -Babysitter needed for 4-year old, Let me know. expert gals? Never fear. limited Trip Partic1pants,Sludent Orgs & 3 bdrm. duplex, one mile from cam-Super Cab -Xcel Cond. transportation required. Tues. & openings are still available. Hurry Campus Sales pus. Appliances, WID. 59K miles. $3950. Thurs. 2:45-7:45 or 5:30-7:45 for Hey, dirty and call Kelle or Kristin at 4·2353 Reps wanted. 503 Eddy St. JBC -271-9474. Spring semester. 
273-8332 Girls, what's up? The backer is Roses are red. Fabulous parties.hotels & Experience with children preferred missin' us!!!! Violet are blue. prices.Call Inter-Campus 800-327-1988 Honda CRX 104K, 4 Speed, but not necessary. Call Beth at I'm schizophrenic. 6013 S BEDRM. '00-'01 Runs Well, $750 288-3408 254-9060 or emall at What happened to the good cl' And so am I. 
$1200/mo. 273-0462 BLP1975@aol.com. days when they had carpeting? •-The SinNot 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, December 1, 1999 
... 
NCAA FOOTBALL NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
$1.2 Illillion lur·es Saban to LSU 
Naked drills lead to 
As•ociated Press 
BATON ROUGE, La. 

Nick Saban left bowl-bound Michigan State on Wednesday for LSU, a job that will nearly double his salary and make 
him one of the coun­try's top­paid coach­es. 
He signed a five-year contract for about 


$1.2 mil-Saban lion annu­ally, joining . a select group of millionaire coaches that includes Bobby Bowden of Florida State, Steve Spurrier of Florida and Phillip Fulmer of Tennessee. 
Saban succeeds Gerry DiNardo at a football-mad school that just completed a 3­8 season for its second straight losing year. DiNardo was fired with a game left. 
"I liked the challenge of this football µrogram," Saban said. "I think there is great tradi­tion. I think the Southeastern Conference is a very competi­tive, outstanding football con­ference. There's a challenge to being part of that conference that kind of intrigued me." 
Saban, a former NFL assis­tant, guided No. 10 Michigan State to second place in the Big Ten. The Spartans are headed to the Florida Citrus Bowl, their first Jan. 1 game since the 1989 Gator Bowl. 
Saban said the Michigan State administration will decide who coaches the team for the bowl game. 
Saban earned $697,330 a year at Michigan State. His contract at LSU calls for.a base salary of $250,000, with the balance coming in radio, TV and Internet appearances, plus other pay. 
"Security is always some.­thing that's important to you and to your family," Saban said. 
".But it's not the reason I came here." 
Michigan State spokesman Terry Denbow said there was "absolutely no bidding war" to keep Saban. 
Michigan Gov. John Engler, a Michigan State alumnus, said he had hoped that Saban was going to become "part of the MSU family for a very, very long time." , 
Saban, with tears in his yes and his voiGe shaking, recalled speaking to his Michigan State players earlier in the day. 
"I like college football 

because when I talked to my team today, the effect that you 

suit against Rutgers 
have on some of the players, their lives, means something," 
by his predecessor, Robert
he said. 
Associated Press 
Wenzel, the lawsuit said. 
Saban said he had two previ­NEWARK, N.J. Bannon threatened gruelingous offers to leave Michigan Twlil former Rutgers' bas­drills for the entire team if the 

State -from the New York 

ketball players and a team group didn't cooperate, said
Giants and the Indianapolis 

manager filed a civil rights Richard M. Winograd, theColts. But he did not consider lawsuit Tuesday accusing the lawyer for theleaving until LSU called. 
coach of making three.
The school is redesigning its 

them do wind "Well, I thought it Specifically,
stadium in which its capacity 

sprints naked the suit charges
was funny when
will be raised to 91,700, mak­during a practice. violation of the

ing it the fourth-largest on­

we were taking
The three state's discrimi­campus stadium in the nation. 
agreed to shed a free throws ... nation law,
At LSU, Saban will run the 

piru:e of clothing intentional
but no one was
state's top college football pro­for every missed infliction of emo­

gram. At Michigan, he was 

free-throw shot at laughing at the tional distress,
always in the shadow of 

the 1997 practice, end." and invasion ofMichigan. 
but they said they privacy.
"lt was always UM this or 

expected it would Only one ofthat," he said. "If I'd gone to 
Earl Johnson Jr.
stop at under­two managers
Ohio it would have been Ohio shorts. Rutgers player involved, Juan

State; Indiana it's Purdue; 

"Well, I thought Carlos Pia,Chicago it's every other school it was funny when joined thP. law­in the Big Ten. In the East it's 
we were taking suit. Pia,Penn State. Whenwer you go 
free throws ... but no one was Johnson and 7-foot conteryou're looking at someone else laughing at the end," said Earl Josh Sankes left Rutgers afterwhen you're recruiting, trying Johnson Jr., a sophomore the 1997 season. 
to catch up, trying to convince player at the time. "We did "This was a humiliatingsomeone you're up there." 

not want to do it." experience," Winograd said.
Saban was at Michigan State The suit, filed in Superior "It served no useful purposefor 10 years, first as the defen­Court, said coach Kevin whatsoever, and it should nut

sive coordinator and for the 

Bannon allowed other players have happened." 
past five years as head coach. 

to skip free-throw rounds or The school believes the suitHe has a 43-26-1 record as a replace clothing. I-le rigged the is "without legal merit,"college coach and a 34-24-1 contest against players and Rutgers counsel David B. Scottrecord at Michigan State student managers recruited said. 
Right now, there has never been a better time to be part of Arthur Andersen. Creativity and innovation. Enduring personal and professional relationships. The freedom to build and grow. Credentials that are admired and sought out worldwide. Commitment. And great rewards. 
· Whether you're interested in Assurance and Business Advisory Services, Business Consulting, Global Corporate Finance, or Tax and Business Advisory Services, Arthur Andersen offers countless opportunities for making our world a part of yours. 
Summer 2000 Internship Informational Session Wednesday, December 1, 1999 7:00 -9:00 PM Center for Continuing Education, Auditorium Casual Dress Please bring a current copy of your resume, listing location 
preference, GPA, & abroad dates. 
If you are unable to attend, resumes may be faxed to 
312-462-4369 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN 
www.arthurandersen.com Helping In Ways You Never Imagined 
Arthur Andersen LLP is an equal opportunity employer. 

. '' ' 

Wednesday, December l, 1999 
The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 

Lauryn Hill . 
2n 
Lil' Kim 

Tori Amos 
• C O m 
.,_,,,, "' music universe at your fingertips. Thousands of MP3s. Concert photos. Videos. The latest music news. Even live concert webcasts. Not to mention fresh content from Rolling Stone and Down Beat. Tons of artists, tons of music all under one virtual roof. It's all here at Tunes.com. Come on in. DOW~BEAT/'1Z'Z' ~­
TUNa Where do all your favorite artists call home? Tunes.com. At Tunes.c01n you'll find the entire 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, December 1, 1999 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Orange Bo-wl selects Michigan 
Associated Press 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 

Michigan accepted a bid Tuesday to play in the Orange Bowl in Miami on New Year's 
Day. 
The ninlh-ranked Wolverines (9-2) will appear in the game as an at-largo member of tho Bowl Championship Series and will most likely face the winner of the Southeastern Conference title game between Florida and Alabama. 
The final matchup for the Orange Bowl and the Fiesta Bowl will be dritermined Sunday. 
"This is a great opportunity to play in 0110 of the four BCS bowl games and to meet one of the top contenders in the country," Michigan athletic director Torn Goss said. "Our team, coaches anrl fans are looking forward to spending time in sunny, warm south florida over the holidays and playing an outstanding opponent on Jan. L" 
The BCS standings, which determines the teams for the nalional title game, are based on a formula that considers The Associated Press media poll and the USA Today-ESPN coaches' poll, eight computer rankings, strength of schedule and losses. 
This will be the 25th consecu­
tive bowl appearance for 
Michigan. 
The Wolverines, whose oppo­nent has not vet been deter­mined, last ·played in the Orange Bowl in 1976, losing to Oklahoma 14-6. 

MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
St. Louis hires Leyland as scout 
Associated Pres., 

ST.. LOUIS 
.Jim Leyland wasn't out of work for long, signing a con­tract Tuesday to be a major league scout with the St. Louis Cardinals. 
Leyland resigned as manag­er of Colorado Rockies at the end of the season, with two years to go on a three-year, $6 million contract, because he wanted to spend more time with his family. 
Cardinals general manager Walt Jocketty said Lnyland will scout mainlv out of his home area in Pittsburgh, and will also track the American League from Cleveland and be available for special assignments. 
"With his relationship with Tony and myself. [ think this will be a great addition to our staff," Jocketty said. "It's another great resource for us as we try to put togflihAr a championship organization." 
Leyland, 54, was on manag­er Tony La B.ussa's staff with the Chicago White Sox in the early 1980s and the two have remained close. La Russa said he spoke to Leyland three times the last four days about the job. 
"This guy is so perceptive," La Russa said. "If you add Jim Leyland to your organiza­tion, some day, some way he's going to help you a great deal." 
The Rockies were 72-90 last season under Leyland, 54, who was a manager for 14 seasons and three times won the manager of the year. He managed the Florida Marlins to a World Championship in 1997 and led the Pittsburgh Pirates to three NL East titles from 1990-92. 
The Cardinals also announced that the coaching stat'f, minus Rene Lachcmann, will return from last season. Lachemann took a coaching joh with the Chicago Cubs in order to spend more timo with his family in Arizona during spring training. 
Marty Mason, 42, the pitch­ing coach for Triple-A Memphis last year. was pro­moted to bench coach with the Cardinals. 
Mason has been in the organization for 14 seasons. 
"Mason has paid a lot of dues and he's really worked well with our pitchers coming up," La Russa said. "He deserves this chance." 
La Russa said it was unde­cided whether Jose Oquendo, the bench coach last year, or first base coach Dave McKay would take over for Lachemann at third base. 
"Who gets first, who gets third, we've got a little time to decide that," La Russa said. "Either way, it'll be good for us." 


Do You LIKE SPORTS? Do YOU LOVE KIDS? Do You WANT To GET PAID 
AND 
EARN COLLEGE CREDIT? 
National Youth Sports Program 
Needs You! Come and learn how you can be a part of 
NYSP 2000 
Wednesday, December 1st 7:00 PM or Thursday, December 2nd 8:00 PM at 
Center for Social Concerns Classroom 
(for additional information call 876-8394) 
Benefits include: -Living in residence hall on campus -Three meals per day -Tuition credit of$1,200 -Academic Credit 
----~------------------~--,-----, ' 
I• 

Wednesday, December l, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
SMC 
continued from page 24 
two steals f'or tho evening. 
The 25-point loss did not rrnect the nffort of the team, 
according to sophomore for­ward Anne Blair. 
"We are much better than we played," she said. "We took good shots and played hard defense, but their shots foll and ours didn't. That's tho difference." 
TENNIS 
Healthy Sampras defeats Agassi 

Associa, .. d Press 
11/\NOVEH, Germanv 

l'cle Sampras has no argu·­nrnnt with Andrn Agassi being No. I in the world. Looking up al /\gassi in the rankings jusl givm; Sampras anothm reason to !mat him. 
In a y1H1r curt.ailnd by back problnms. Sampras had littlfl cha11c(1 or <,xtending his rncurd six-year run of' finishing the Sl'ilSOll us No. 1. 
But he is lrnalthy again. as Agassi found out Sunday when Sampras won 6-1. 7-5. 6-4 to capture the ATP Tour World Championship, the season-end­ing tournament that features tlw top eight players in the world. 
"The ranking isn't quite as significant. It's nice, but bnating Andre, who's had a phenome­nal year, is what I am most pleased about," Sampras said. 
"Allor the U.S. Open, I kind of accepted the fact that I wasn't going to be No. t. I've done it longer than anyone," said Sampras, who missed the U.S. Opon. 
Agassi, enjoying the best year or his earner, won the French Open and Lim U.S. Open and lost tlrn Wimbl,idon final to Sampras. He will finish the year at No. 1 for the first time. 
"llfl had an incredible year and deserves to be No. 1," Sampras said of his biggest rival. 
Sampras completed only eighl tournaments this year, but won five of tlrnm. "That's a pretty good percentage," he said. 
In round-robin play earlier in the tournament, /\gassi beat Sampras 6-2, 6-2. 
But Sampras, coming off a thrne-month layoff because of hip and back injuries, was at his best Sunday and showed no sign of rustiness. 
"I was humiliated a few days ago and I wanted to prove that I still have it. I was very pumped up, ready to go," he said. 
"Today was a big match and I've always believed in myself. that I can rise to the occasion," Sampras said. "I really saved the best for last." Agassi did not hide his disappointment. 
"It was a bad day to be flat," Agass i said. "I was really unhappy with the way I played. 
"I've won enough to feel pret­ty good about my year, to say the least. I do take a lot uf pride in this year, but it's disappoint­ing today. I was really unhappy with the way I played." 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Minnesota awaits sanctions 
program is the "death penal­
Auociated Press 

ty," in which a sports pro­MINNEAPOLlS gram is deemed so thoroughly 
Although the media frenzy corrupt that it is ended com­over academic fraud in the pletely. University of Minnesota men's In 1987, Southern basketball program has sub­Methodist University was the 
sided, another process bas last school to receive the just begun. death penalty, following alle­Tonya Moten Brown, chief gations of widespread acade­of staff for University mic fraud in its football pro-Prnsident Mark gram. ThoughYudof, pre­the program 
sented findings "Certainly I think was reinstated of the one year later,
forfeiture would be 
University's the team has
damaging, but there 
independent had only one investigation to are rules we play winning sea­
NCAA officials under. and they exit for son since 
i n then.
a reason . .,

Indianapolis, The NCA/\ is Ind., last keeping open Tuesday. Tonya Moten Brown the possibility
Brown then of conducting
Chief of staff for
hand-delivered its own inter­
Minnesota preident
a letter to views, includ-
Yudof  from  
David  Price,  
NCAA  vice  president  for  

enforcement, officially begin­ning the NCAA investigation that will end with final sanc­tions this time next year. 
The letter expresses the NCAA's desire to complete its investigation by April 2000. The University would prepare a response to accompany the new report before the NCAA infractions committee in June. Final sanctions would be issued six to 10 weeks after the committee meeting. 
Possible NCAA penalties include further postseason bans, scholarship loss and .indefinite probation. Forfeiture of profits and of games in which players deemed academically ineligi­ble participated is also possi­ble. 
The ultimate penalty for any misconduct in an athletics ing with for­

mer academic counselor Alonzo Newby, who refused to speak with the University's independent investigators. 
Brown said she hoped Newby would speak with the NCAA or others to clarify murky portions of the report. 
"We would hope maybe he sees the NCAA as more of a neutral party than previous investigators. In the sense that he has a story to tell, we are prepared to follow up if and when he chooses to talk," she said. 
University investigators con­cluded some Gophers basket­ball players were academical­ly ineligible during each of the past five seasons, leaving the door open for the NCAA to retroactively forfeit games, including the 1997 Big Ten championship and Final Four appearance. 
Yudof said he considered the possibility of forfeiture, but it was not his main con­cern when he announced the resignations of McKinley Boston. vice president of stu­dent development and athlet­ics, and Mark Dienhart, men's athletics director. 
"I think it would not be a good thing," Yudof said last week. "It would be largely symbolic. I think the report showed a systematic break­down in procedure, and I was largely concerned with that." 
Yudof also said the overhaul in the men's basketball pro­gram was not an attempt to appease the NCAA and avoid future penalties. He pointed to his one-year ban on post­season play. 
"It was not a big far.tor," Yudof said of futurn NCAA sanctions. "I wanted to do tho right thing, but I was also try­ing to send a message of good 
faith.  The  chips  will  fall  
where  they  may  with  the  
NCAA."  

Brown said the meeting in Indianapolis went well. 
"! think it's f'air to say they did appreciate the president taking aggressive action," Brown said. "The findings of the report clearly warranted new management." 
Pending approval from the Board of Regents. Brown will become vice president of' administration and oversee tho athletics departments. 
Brown said while she would not want the University to for­feit the 1997 Final Four, other sanctions might be in order. 
"Certainly, I think forfeiture would be damaging, but there are rules we play under, and they exist for a reason. The University must compete fair­ly," she said. 

page 18 # The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, December 1, 1999 
HOCKEY 
Notre Dame falls to New Hampshire, defeats Vermont 
By BILL HART Associate Spores Ediror 
The Notre Dame hockey team took advantage of Thanksgiving break to enter the Conference Classic in Durham, N. II. 
The two games resulted in a split for the blue and gold with a 2-1 loss to New Hampshire overshadowed by a 5-1 win over Vermont. 
The eighth-ranked Wildcats preyed on the two main weak­nesses for the Irish: first-period scoring and difficulty on the road. New Hampshire drew first blood four minutes, 23 seconds into the game when UNH freshman right wing Josh Prudden lifted a shot over Irish freshman goaltender Tony Zasowski for his first career goal. Sixty-seven seconds later, junior defenseman Eric Lund took a rising shot to Zasowski's glove side to give the Wildcats an early 2-0 lead. 
"We've just had problems 

there," senior defenseman 
Sean Seyferth said about the 
team's troubles in the first 
period. "We've just had trouble 
coming out slow. We were able 
to prevent that against 
Vermont, but it's something 
that we've been working on all 
season." 
The Irish played to a different 

tune in the second period, tak­
ing a 16-4 shot edge and using 
three power-play chances to 
knock the raucous home crowd 
out of the game. The team's 
offense finally struck home 
18:39 into the period, when freshman right wing John Wroblewski sent a pass into the left corner for Fraser. Fraser sent a pass to freshman center Connor Dunlop at the top of the crease, who took a low shot that just missed Wildcat goal­tender Ty Conklin's left skate. 
Both teams traded shots late in the third period until UNI-I senior left wing Mike Souza was called for an interference penalty with 1:36 left to play. Notre Dame pulled Zasowski for the closing minute, but the 6-4 advantage wasn't enough to get a shot to strike home. 
In Sunday's game against the Catamounts, the Irish got over their first-period struggles with four first period goals to put the game out of reach. 
Senior Joe Dusbabek got things started 3:37 into the game. After receiving the puck off passes from senior Ben Simon and sophomore David Inman, Dusbabek slapped the puck at the right side of the crease by sophomore Tim Peters for his third goal of the season. 
It took a little more than a minute for the team to strike again, when junior left wing Dan Carlson took a pass from Wroblewski around a defender before hitting a rising shot from the top of the right circle. 
Seyferth earned his first goal of the season at the 7:01 mark, taking a shot from a crowded crease area that found its way to the back of the net. Senior left wing Andy Jurkowski and sophomore center Brett Henning each earned an assist on the play. 
"It was just kind of a scram­ble," Seyferth said about the goal. "Andy was able to get the puck to me and I was able to get a shot off." 
A few minutes later, he added an assist to his total with a pass to Simon which set up an Inman goal. 
Freshman Shawn Conshafter took over the Catamuunt net after the first-period slaughter, but was unable to stop a 5-3 Irish power play midway through the second period. Junior right wing Ryan Dolder slid the puck to senior defense­man Sean Molina at the top of the left circle. Simon picked up Molina's rebound and tipped the puck just out of Conshafter's reach to increase the Irish lead back to four. 
Fiw1 different players scored for Notre Dame, while 10 had at either a goal or an assist in the win. Up until Sunday, the Irish had managed only four first period goals in 13 games this season. 
The victory against the Caramounts also saw a return for sophomore goaltender Jeremiah Kimento. In his first start in over a month, Kimento recorded over 24 saves, only blemished by a Catamount power play goal midway through the first period to cut the lead to 3-1. 
"He just played a great game," Seyferth said about 


Thursday Nites! 
Homemade Italian Spaghetti 
BUCKBT 


Feeds 3 to 4 people. CALL AHEAD TO HAVE FOOD READY ON ARRIVAL 
1713 South Bend Avenue (at the entrance to Turtle Creek) 247-1000 

MARY CALASH/The Observer 

Nathan Borega, shown here against Alaska-Fairbanks, and the Notre Dame hockey team went 1-1 over Thanksgiving with a win over Vermont and a loss to New Hampshire. 
Kimento's play. "He stopped a couple of breakaways and came up with a bunch of big saves." 
With the weekend complete, the Irish move to 5-7-2 on the season and set their sights on possibly the most important series for the month of Docember -a two-game series against CCHA leader Michigan State. 
"Last weekend was really important for us," Seyferth said. "It got us prepared, and Michigan State's going to be a tough team. We·ve just got to win a couple league games and move up in the standings." 


lEADERSHIP FOR COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE AND PERSONAl SUCCESS LECTURE SERIES 
presents Mr. Mike Harper, Former Chairman and CEO of AJA Nabisco and ConAgra 
"The Power of the Individual" 
Friday, December 3 1:00 p.m. Jordan Auditorium College of Business Administration University of Notre Dame 
sponsored by The Management Department 
... ---------­
Wednesday. December l, 1999 fhe Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
'I 
page 19 



Going up. 

As you begin your ascent to the top, remember, it's what you learn along the way that counts. At Ernst & Young, you can have endless learning opportunities working with leading companies in leading industries. So when you get to your destination, you'll belong there. Ride with us. www.ey.com 
FORTUNE 
10lh:i'I.~ ,. 
~iEI 
TD WIRK FDR 

CONSULTING• TAX• ASSURANCE 
a!} ERNST& YOUNG 
FROM THOUGHT TO FINISH.™ 
~1999 ERNST & YOUNG llP 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, December I, 1999 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Bulldogs visit JACC for Irish home opener 
By KERRY SMITH 
Assistanr Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame women's bas­ketball team matches up against the Bulldogs of Butler tonight in the first Irish home game of the year. 
The Irish look to improve their 1­1 record against a 3-1 Bulldog team that has not lost since its sea­son openPr. 
Even though the Irish have only played two regular season games this year, they are already showing hints of a potent attack spread throughout the court. Offensively, the Irish are evenly balanced in the front and back courts. 
Junior center Huth Riley looks to dominate at the post position this season. The preseason first-team All-AmPrican selection had some trouble in the opening games of the season, but still managed to prove that she can be a force on the court. 
Despite sitting out most of the game because of foul trouble, Riley was the top scorer in Notre Dame's loss to No. 15 Illinois with 16 points in just 16 minutes. Riley was held scoreless in the season opener win over Toledo as she spent most of the game in foul trouble. 
Although they are aware of the importance of staying in the game and not committing costly fouls, Riley and junior forward Kelley Siemon agreed that referees have a tendency to call tighter games early on during the season, which could partially account for Riley's number of fouls. 
"Sometimes the refs do call more fouls early on in the season," Riley said. "But that is no excuse -it's something we need to be aware of." 
In the back court, the Irish pos­sess a strong set of guards that will keep their opponents scrambling. The experience of seniors Niele Ivey and Danielle Green will be key because some talented freshmen will see a lot or action early on this season. 
Freshman guard Alicia Ratay was the leading scorer against Toledo and came up with nine points against Jllinois. 
"The freshmen have been doing a great job so far," Riley said. "They come in and play hard ­and that's what we need -every­one to play hard and improve throughout the season. Alicia and Monique [Hernandez] especially have really done well." 
The Irish defense has not per­formed as well as its ofTense. \Vhile the Irish were able to hold off a tough Toledo team, mental mis­takes cost the Irish too many points against Illinois. 
"We definitely played better against Toledo," Riley said. "Our defense overall was not good against Illinois. We made too many mistakes." 
The Irish defense allowed Fighting Illini guard Amanda Curtain to score 28 points, leading her team to a 10-point victory. The Irish need to work on their transi­tion defense in particular if they plan on beating the Bulldogs. 
The Bulldogs are riding a three­game winning streak, although the No. 7 Irish will be their first true test of the season. 
Led by sophomore forward Kelly Kuhn, the Bulldogs will rely on their inside game to upset the Irish. Kuhn led the Bulldogs to a championship title at the University of Missouri Kansas City Thanksgiving Classic last weekend·. 

Senior point guard Niele Ivey, shown here against Boston College last year, leads the Notre Dame women's basketball team against Butler tonight. 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Duke 
•
Jumps into poll 

Associated Press 
Duke faced a rebuilding job after losing three starters from its 1999 women's Final Four team. 
With hustle and desire. the Blue Devils are doing what they can to make that task easier for coach Gail Goestenkors. 
"This team plays with more heart and intensity than any team I've had," said Goestenkors, whose team returned to The Associated Press women's basketball poll Monday at No. 22. "They're wiHing to run through a brick wall to win a game." 
Duke (4-1) was the lone new­comer in the poll, which still has Connecticut on top. The Huskies, who have been No. 1 from the start, got a boost from two straight 100-point games and received a season­high 40 first-place votes from the national media panel. 
Losses by 10 ranked teams -all to other members of the Top 25 -triggered a realign­ment in the poll, with only Connecticut and No. 25 Wisconsin remaining in the same spot they held last week. 
The poll had 26 teams because Virginia Tech tied Wisconsin for the final spot No one dropped out. 
Duke, out of the poll for one week. has come back strong after losing to Boston College in the second round of the pre­season NIT. The !Hue Devils beat Vanderbilt 68-59, then defeated Florida A&M and then-No. 9 Penn State to win Duke Classic. 
Georgia Schweitzer, one of the two rnturning starters, led the way with 18 points in the 63-49 victory over Penn State. 



Experi ng wi aker? 

motio resume 




oney $$$$$ 
Work for the Observer Ad Design Department 
If you are a Freshman, Sophomore or Junior with Mac skills and want to work for a few hours a week call Brett Huelat at 246-1488 or stop by the Observer office in the basement of the South Dining Hall. You will not find a better job on campus! Great Pay!! Very Flexible!!! 
Wednesday, December l, I999 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 

8-ball 
continued from page 24 
lo play. 
Dil1011, who hud only scored two for Notrn Danw, put in a lrHy to closn tlw scorn to with­i11 two. 
Tlw Irish shut the lloosinrs down on <kh•ns<' thn next time do w n tIm co u rt . a 11 ow in g Dillon to hrnak to the basket to lie tho gamn at C,2 with two s,~eouds 011 llw clock. 
Indiana couldn't get ol'f a good shot, and the gumc went to ovcrtimn. 
Tim lloosicrs, minus Lhc f'oulnd-uul llaston, rulnd the ,ixtra p<!riod l1!d by senior guard A.J. {;uyton. Thoy had a 15-0 run lo start the overtime pPriod. 
Cuyton scored Hight of his 20 points during overti111<1. IIt~ hit !"our l'rnn throws, had hack-to­hack st,~als and added two baskets in tlrn bonus live min­utes. Lynn Washington and Larry Richardson each put in four ov,irlime points for the I loosi1\rs. 
Indiana had taken a 77-62 h1ad before Murphy got Notre Danw's only points of' overtime with t :12 r11maining. Murphy had his fil'th double-double of the season with 22 points and If, rebounds. 
ThP Irish dug themselves a deep hole by turning thn ball over 12 times in the early going and shooting :-I0percent to the lfoosiers' 64 percent at the fi:30 mark in t.he first half. 
With the loss, the Irish dropped to throe and throo on tlw season. 
Game notes: 
. 
This is tho first.time Notre Damn has over played four ranked teams in November. Tho tr.am beat Ohio State 59­57, lost tu Arizuna 76-60 and fell lo Maryland 72-67 prior to its game against Indiana. 

. 
The Irish had 28 turnovers to the Hoosiers' 10. • 


. Indiana had four players in double digits, while Notre Dame only had two -Murphy and Macura with 13. 
. The Irish host Vanderbilt Saturday at 2 p.m. 

double cheeseburger were any bigger, 

Associated Press 
we'd need to buy more ad space. 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 

Antwaan Handle El. worn out from a season of football, will not join Indiana's basketball team this year unless the Hoosiers need another player because of injuries. 
The sophomore quarterback played both sports as a redshirt freshman last year, joining the basketball squad at the end of the football season but seeing lit­tle playing time because of a hand injury. 
"It was a time for me to get some rest," he said Tuesday night at Assembly Hall before the No. 23 Hoosiers' home open­er against Notre Dame. "I talked 
· to coach [Bob] Knight and to coach Cam [Cameron] and we all decided this was the time. 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Randle El to sit out 
If our delicious, flame-broiled 
basketball season 

ATTENTION 
UNDERGRADUATE 

AND GRADUATE 
STUDENTS 
WORLDWIDE 

ENTER.COM 
PURSUE JOB

Nothmg beats our b1g,juicy Double Cheeseburger. It's got the 
AND INTERNSHIP
great taste of flame broiling and has 750/o more beefthan 
OPPORTUNITIES 
McDonald's~ Cheeseburger. 
THAT SPAN
(Price and participation may vary.) The Huddle • Lafortune Student Center 
THE GLOBE 
• ·; CampusCareerCenter.com5~
~ The world~ /mgest campus job fa;,
It just tastes better. 
C1998 Burger King Corporation. Burger King Corporation Is the exclusive licensee ol lhe Bun Halves logo trademari< McDonald's I• a registered trademark ol the Mc_D_o_na_1a_·s_C_orp_o_ra_11o_n.________~ 
"If anything happens with injuries on the basketball team and the coach needs mn, J()m a phone call away." 
Handle El set an Indiana rncord with 3,065 total yards, passed for 17 touchdowns and ran for anothnr 13 TDs. I le also became the first sophomorn in Big Ten history to reach 5,000 career total yards, finishing the season with 5,633. 
I le said he considered quitting ba.'iketball allnr the season-nnd­ing football game against Purdue. 
"There was a thought then, but I didn't want to announce it and not be sure. So I just waited and took that Thanksgiving break and came back and actu­ally foll I wasn't rnady, I wasnot up to going out and being on the court right away." 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, December l, 1999 
VOLLEYBALL 

Irish beat Cougars, earn NCAA bid 

Fox 
continued from page 24 
the one leading the offensive huddle, the locker room and the comebacks. He, as all quarterbacks, was often the first player looked at in a loss. 
In the same way, each one of his teammates used their own individual talents for the best of the team. Whether stepping up in the absence of an injured teammate, stepping down because someone was playing better at the time or changing from defense to offense because that's what was need­ed, these guys did it all. 
Many, including Bob Davie, saw that this team was just as talented as many of the top teams in the country. capable of beating any one of them at any given time. 
This was Jackson's team, and he represented his team­mates with the hard work, skill and drive that characterized them all. It was this way not because he was the only cap­tain. He was the only captain because it was this way. 
I watched the game Saturday night because I knew it was the last chance I would get to see Jarious and the rest of the seniors in the Notre Dame blue and gold. 
I'm sentimental by nature, but this game really got to me. 
Watching No. 7 take his final collegiate snaps in a game played in a half-deserted stadi­um that couldn't make him and his teammates bowl eligi­ble or give them a winning season made me mad. I can't even imagine how he felt. Taking warm up throws on the sideline, a season once filled with so much promise ended in a sea of empty seats. 
I got frustrated and yelled at the TV, not because the out­come of the game mattered but because this was where all these guys who had worked so hard would have their college careers end. It all came down to this Stanford game where there was nothing left for it to come down to. 
Watching the Cardinal easily shred through a loose Notre Dame prevent defense for the second time in the game on the way to the game winning field goal. I wondered why this team and its leader didn't get a shot at what it deserved. 
Earlier in the season, there were questions as to whether this team's struggles were rooted in inexperienced play­ers or a poor head coach. 
After watching the Stanford game, how many of you are still blaming youth? 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necesarily those ofThe Observer. 
1

.~~•m.. /.··.•.·•·•e··... Jn•.·.··.•.·.·.··•·i.·.~.•:s·•:i....(~...·.1~.·.·..'j.·.· 
' .--··,.:t; .. : -.· ··.:t..:.:: 
" ..f!;ZJ"INl,G,p I: 
By MATT OLIVA 
Sporrs Writer 
After falling short in their attempt to capture the Big East championship last weekend, Notre Dame locked up a bid in the NCM volleyball tournament with a convincing win over Washington State. 
The three-game win over the Cougars earned the Irish a first round matchup with the Ohio State Buckeyes as an at-large selection in the NCAA tourna­ment. 
By losing the Big East champi­onship -and an automatic berth to the national tournament -the Irish faced a must win sit­uation against the Cougars over the Thanksgiving holiday in the Community Bankers Classic at the University of Pacific. A win would help the Irish make the national tournament for the eighth consecutive year. 
Christi Girton led Notre Dame with 10 kills in the match and Mary Leffers contributed eight blocks on the way to a 15-10, 15-4, 15-6 win. It is the first time that Notre Dame defeated Washington State and improved the Irish record to 20-7 on the year. 

Kristy Kreher and Marcie Bomhack each contributed nine kills, helping the Irish hit .356 as a team. The Notre Dame defense was also impressive, holding Washington State to a mere .055 hitting average. Leffers added 10 digs and Denise Boylan finished with four blocks. 
After falling behind in the first game, the Irish were able to score six straight points, and then never looked back. Notre Dame held a 9-7 lead on Washington State, before scoring four more points, eventually putting away the Cougars 15-10. Game 2 was similar to the first as the Irish took a fast lead, but this time the Notre Dame defense shut down its opponent, limiting Washington State to only four points in the game to win 15-4. 
The final game of the match saw the two teams tied at 5 early on. The Irish once again pulled away and then held the Cougars down. Washington State scored only one more point the rest of the way as Notre Dame won the Game 3 15-6 and the match 3-0. 
On Sunday, Notre Dame dropped its match to fifth­ranked Pacific in the tournament finale. Pacific (20-8) defeated Notre Dame in straight games for the second time this year, 15­9, 15-0, 15-4. Pacific won the tournament with the straight game victory. 
Boylan and Leffers were both named to the Community Bankers Classic All-Tournament team. 
The loss did not cost the Irish, as they were able to earn a berth into the national tourna­ment with their win over Washington State. 
"I think the main thing for us is that we're glad that we're still playing," Notre Dame head coach Debbie Brown said. "We felt like we were in a good posi­tion to get an at-large bid, but of' course you never really know." 
The Irish face the Buckeyes on Dec. 4 at UCLA in the tourna­ment's central region. The win­ner of the match will face the UCLA-Eastern Washington win­ner. 


KEVIN DALUM/The Observer Jarious Jackson, shown here against Stanford, set a new Notre Dame record for passing yards in a season in 1999. 
ATTENTION STUDENTS: 
WHYSELLYOURUSEDTEXTBOOKSBACKTOTHEBOOKSTOREFOR 
LESS WHEN YOU CAN SELL THEM DIRECTLY TO ANOTHER STUDENT? 
CAMPUSMONSTER.COM ALLOWS STUDENTS TO SELL THEIR USED 
TEXTBOOKS TO OTHER STUDENTS. YOU WILL MAKE MORE MONEY 
AND YOUR FELLOW STUDENTS WILL SAVE MORE! IT'S THAT SIMPLE. 
LOG ON NOW AND LIST YOUR FALL SEMESTER TEXTBOOKS AND GET 
ENTERED FOR THE CHANCE TO WIN YOUR NEXT SEMESTERS BOOKS 
FOR FREE!!!! THAT'S RIGHT. WE WILL HOLD A DRAWING ON DECEM­
BER 30, 1999 TO FIND THE WINNER OF OUR" SEMESTER FOR FREE" 
CONTEST. YOU WILL RECEIVE 1 ENTRY FOR EVERY BOOK YOU LIST THE MORE BOOKS YOU LIST THE BETTER YOUR CHANCES OF WINNING. 
WHEN YOU'RE THERE, GET THE LATEST SCOOP ON WHAT'S HAPPEN­
ING AT YOUR COLLEGE OR AT CAMPUSES AROUND THE COUNTRY. THERE'S ALSO A SECTION WITH UP TO DATE SCORES AND COLLEGE 
NEWS. 

FROM TEXTBOOK SWAPPING, COLLEGE APPAREL AND GAME TICKETS TO THE LATEST CAMPUS NEWS, IT'S ALL JUST A CLICK AWAY AT CAMPUSMONSTER.COM 

··.\.•;~a:•i<··•1:1:•;·'(:'/
.. J~:.u·. ·., -i 
:._ ;.;:: '•'·,•--. ·:· ... : .·· 
•.,,. ,..,,,. .... .•~!j:;j;:)i•;:.;;::,• 
•.·•.·le.flt~.. 
·..., •· areness :
•· .· ... ' .·.·· ... ·.............. ,...• " 

PUSfflODSTDR.GOffl 
"If we don't have it, you can't get it!" 
vs:Jlw:}Ji}.dffl~
Come helppromo'te .8.,:easf
fJ/:l;:e,,,f/.~'l'-J(J .·• .. ..· ······. .. ·• .·.··•···· 
··r.,,rs: 
'**~,ij;j: 
;"· .., ':ff'_, 

~-_,:it ::b:~t·* j<_:::-,.:_ ._.,t -.;; 


This Saturday Notre\(!fii •·,,me:yl-lockey 
:~:~i·:a::.~::p $t. 
J~:wce::i~~pte lelahouse 
.. eme for a 
il!sa;, 
1 
·" p8ck from 


Wednesday, December 1, 1999 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
TOM KEELEY

FOURTH ANO INCHES A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM 

Fox TROT 
SNoW, DARN IT.' 
I 

I CoMMAND '(ou 
C\.OUOS To SNOW.' 
I 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
Insecticide target 6 New Year's popper 10 Truck stop order 14 "Time in a Bottle" singer 15 Bit attachment 16 Where Lima is 
17 With 38-and 62-Across, why the maharishi refused 
Novocain 19 Place to play blackjack 20 Become 
balanced 21 Pull out 23" 
magnifiquer" 
25 Goes 
underground 26 Screech 
30 Broadcast 33 Endless years 34 Hardly 
important 35 Check cashers' 
cards 38 See 17-Across 42 "My boy" 43 Good going 
down 44 Legal rights org. 45 Like Vikings 46 Gentle breeze 48 Command to 
Rover 51 Lead singer for 
the Belmonts 53 Dispute 56 Horned thing? 61 Lots of laughs 62 See 17-Across 64_ Royale 
National Park 65 Spread served in bars 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

R I P S M I E T E S T S A N 
66 "The Faerie Queene" division 
67 Orchard item 68 Grab (onto) 69 John of rock 
DOWN 
1 Pine {for) 2 Before: Abbr. 3 Sewing machine 
inventor 4"... _do 
better!" S Indicate 6 Aegean 
vacation lo~ale 7 Multivolume ref. work a Initiation procedure 9 Fort_ (gold 
repository) 10 Abominable 11 Coming up 12 Subsequently 
13 Heckling sounds 
22 Start of many limericks 24 Like Mother Cabrini 
26 Srs.' worry 27 Lifesaver, e.g. 28 Horse of a 
certain color 
29 Caravansary 31 500 spot 32 Fishing need 34 Snafu 35 Restless desire 36 Emmy-winning 
Tyne 37 Insulting remark 
Puzzle by Richard Sllve¦trl 
39 Tend, as a fire 40 Sleeper or 
smoker 41 Velvet pile 45 Run off at the 
mouth 46 Suffix on era 
names 47 Intertwine 48 Money 
substitute 49 Modeling asset SO Bomber name 
BILL AMEND 
~ I COMMAND You 
{ (\_oUDS To LISTEN .t i To ME.' 
j I 
s 

.. 
The NO diehards find the winner they've been looking for. 
beam.,@nd.edu 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
HOROSCOPE 

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 1999 
CELEIIRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Woody Allen, Richard Prvor, Bette Midler." Charlene Tilton, ·Gilbert O'Sullivan, Carol Alt 
Happy Birthday: Learn to let oth­ers lend you a hand, and you'll do far better this year. You will haYe to take care of issues you mav have been reluctant to tend to 111 the past. Fi1\d ways to add some spire to rela­tionships that have become stale. You may need to make a few apologies to get a response from those you care about. Your numbers: 4, 16, 22, 2,9, 30, 38 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You wi!I tend to exaggerate about your home life. Chances to express your ideas and beliefs can bring \'OU added popularity, but you mustn't force others to folio\\; your path, or all will be lost. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't take on too much (inanciallv. Do things that will improve your attitude and bring you greater sel/­confidence. You can expert to receive compliments at social gatherings. 00000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): It will be di_fficult tel control your feelings when dealing with family members. You will confuse them, making mat­ters worse. Try to think things through before you take action. 00 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Minor mishaps due to your preoccu­pation will be upsetting. Don't make unreasonable promises. Disagree­ments with your boss are sure to erupt if you speak your mind. 0000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will be able to contribute a lot to the groups you work with. Your abilitv to organize and delegate will be a real asset. Be sure to include your mate in the events you attend. 000 
EUGENIA LAST 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Tak,,, break You should be doing thing you en1oy. Don't let family memlwr· dump their responsibilities on you,., take advantage of your talents. Yo1. must learn to say no for a chang,· 
000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Com municahon will be your strong point You can talk others into jrnning you, cause Travel, courses and entertain ment should be mixed together 
000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will have to be well-organized Learn to delegate less important duties t,, those around vou. You have a knar~ for taking on ioo much and then get· ting frazzled trying to meet you, deadlines. 0000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec 21): Your emotions will be close h• the surface if your mate confront, you regarding your lack o( help or your frivolous expenditures on en tertainment or luxury items. 00 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19) Put in extra hour's at work, and you'll get some time off during the holiday season. You'll be tempted to become involved with someone you work with. Weigh all the possibilities carefully first. 00000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You can gain popularity at work and with friends by voicing your ideas Correct any bad habits you ma,· have picked up Don't get involved in gossip that could be damaging to someone else. 000 
" 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): It's ,1 busy time of the year, and your tem­per will be difficult to control when dealing with personal dilemmas. T~ not to push loved ones away, but do take some time to sort out your true feelings. 000 · 
Birthday Baby: You are a positi1·e force that can drive everyone around you to strive to be better. You're a jov, an inspiration and a caring and loyal individual. You are a grand master at the art of positive manipulation. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, 
,.

eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) If' 1999 Uni\'crs,,J Press Svnd1t·,,tl' 
52 Challenge for a nonnative speaker 
54 E.P.A. concern 
55 Confess 
57 And others, for short 
58 Make chang1:1? 59 Marquand 
sleuth 60 In a while 63 "Gloria in 
excelsis 

Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Obsnrver in your home. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name _____________________~ 
Address ___________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
----------~--------------.... ... 

Take the money and run 
Michigan State head coach Nick Saban left the Spartans to become the head coach ofthe louisanna State Tigers. By accepting the $1 .2 million ojJer from LSU. Saban left MSU without a
PORTS 
coach for the Citrus Bowl. 
page 14 

page 24 0~1tRVER Wednesday, December I, 1999 


Deserving morethan 7losses 
He deserved better than that. 

Jarious Jackson -after three years of waiting, two years of leading and a year of breaking Notre 
.. 
.. Dame sin­gle season passing and total offense records­deserves better than end­ing his col­legiate career at Stanford ina game that meant nothing for either team. He was the leader of this 1999 fpotball team. It was his team, and he was a representa­tive for every single guy that went to war each Saturday. 
What he deserved, they all deserved. 
And they all deserved better than going out to Stanford with a 5-6 record to, in the words of an ABC promo, "tune up Stanford for the Rose Bowl." 
Jackson was a symbol for the rest of his team. 
The wide array of talents he brings to the filed is amazing. As a quarterback, ifyou can complete a good percentage of your passes and run well when called upon, you'll be consid­ered versatile. 
But Jackson's talents don't stop there. As a passer, he can throw the short quick strikes to Jabari Holloway or Joey Getherall over the middle. 
Or, managing a swirling wind and gripping a drenched ball against USC, he can look at his receivers in the huddle and tell them to just worry about catch­ing it, because the ball would be there. 
You want a quarterback who can run? 
He'll scramble and elude tacklers from all angles when under pressure. He isn't content 
Ir 
to end a run with a slide either. After a scramble, he'll lower his shoulder and drive right through you. 
Or, on a busted option against Navy, he'll fake like he's going to plow through a defensive back on the left hash. make a Barry Sanders-type move. cut all the way across the field to
.. 
the other sideline and outrun a different defensive back for a 57-vard touchdmvn run. 
Away from the action, he was 
see FOX / page 22 


MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish come back, fall flat in overtime 
l;\y KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Assistant Sports Editor 
Tuesday's battle between the No. 23 Hoosiers and the frish was a game of streaks and droughts that ended in a 81-64 Hoosiers overtime vic­tory. 
The men's Indiana 81 basketball NotreDame64 team, follow­ing the recent trend in Irish athletics, went without scoring in the firsL 13 minutes of the ga1m~. spotting the. Indiana Hoosiers a 17-0 lead. The Irish climbed back into 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
the contest with a second-half 
• surge in which they outscored the Hoo•siers 17-2. Senior point guard Jimmy Dillon put up the final five points in reg­ulation for the Irish to force the game into overtime, but Notre Dame collapsed in the extra period, allowing Indiana to score 15 unanswered points. Down 47-29 early in the second stanza, the frish came out more aggressive on both ends of the floor. 
Sophomore Troy Murphy keyed an Irish comeback with 10 of the next 24 Notre Dame points. The Irish took their only lead of the game with 
6:30 remaining on a bucket by freshman .!ere Macura. 
On the next possession of the game, Hoosier Kirk Haston was fouled and sent to the free throw line to shoot the one-and-one. He missed his first shot, but Macura made the mistake of stepping into the lane a breath too soon, handing Haston a bonus opportunity to score. He made good on the second chance, a point which could have ·given the Irish the victory. 
Free throw shooting was key in the final few minutes of play. 
Haston made one for two from the foul line again sec­
onds later, and neither team scored again until Macura made a free throw with 4::B remaining. Haston added two more free throws on a foul by Notre Dame freshman guard Matt Carroll. 
fndiana's Luke Jimenez put his team up 59-53 with a shot from behind the arc 
It was then back to the free throw line for both teams. Carroll hit two free throws for the Irish. Michael Lewis was three of four for the Hoosiers. and Macura added two fol­lowing I·laston's fifth foul. This left the Irish down 62-57 with just more than a minute 
see B-BALL / page 2 1 

Hope College flies over Saint Mary's 
By KAREN SCHAFF Sports Writer 
After a 70-45 loss to Hope College in their home opener, coach Dave Roeder and his young Saint Mary's basketball team have their work cut out for them. 
The Belles, who are made up mostly of sophomores, came out fast scoring the first basket of the game. After the Belles opening score, the Flying Dutch of Hope College picked up the tempo to take a commanding 13-point lead. 
The Belles answered back with a strong man-to-man, help-side defense and power­ful offense to outscore the Flying Dutch 21-10 and trail by just two at halftime, 32-30. 
In the second half, Saint Mary's lost its up-beat tempo while Hope came out looking more together. The Flying Dutch had better passing and the outside shooting. 
The Belles gave up 10 unanswered points before putting on the press. The Belles defense frequently trapped the Flying Dutch but quick passing by Hope broke the Saint Mary's press. 
Along with the strong defense, the Belles offense picked up its intensity. Scrapped for every loose ball, the Belles worked hard for every shot but could not get them to fall. 
Tho defense of tho Belles 
picked up later in the second 
half. Mary Campion, a sopho­
more guard, came up with 
see SMC/ page 17 



vs. Butler vs. Santa Clara Today, 7 p.m. NCM semifinals SariJose, Calif, Volleyball vs. Ohio Seate
SPORTS 

Friday, 6:30 p.m. NCAA first roundATA Los Angeles, Calif., 
Swimming vs. Michigan State 
Samrday, 5 p.m.

Notre Dame Invitational Saturday, 7 p.m. 
Thursday, l 0 a.m.
GLANCE 








