a .w 
-
'-\EAT IN THI HUDDI.I 

CD Shopping 
Wednesday 
¦ Burger King and The Huddle will serve 

¦ Looking for a m:w CD? Check our our music 
FEBRUARY 17,
tnl·,H during Lent. 

reviews. 
News• 6 

Scene• 10-11 
1999 


THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 91 WWW. N D.EDU/~OBSERVER 
By CHRIS IAWLER 
N,·ws Wri1n 
l>isplaying his hallmark ol' vivid and humorous rl'tnlling of' various pnrsonal 11xp11rinncns. poet, musician and diarist. .lim Carroll spokn Tuesday night at tlw Sophomore Literary Festival in Washington llall. 
I>n•ssPd in hlun jPans. a black shirt and black boots. and slightly stooping ov11r llrn podium, Carroll niacl S()VPral selections from his I987 work. 'Torc«·d Entri«•s." Tim short story "A Day al tlw llac11s" olT«•rPd a uniqun pnrspnctivn on a sPXllltlly transmiltl'd rlis11as11. 
I lis 1111xl tali' was a humorous rncounting of an Parly pnrrorma111•p whPrP hn killcid a cockroach with a ran of' Haid. Tlw pPrf'ormancn gmwratml a11di111H·1• and rrit.ical prais1\, much to th«i amusr.­11111111 of Carroll. who said lw camn up with the idl'a mPrPIV to kill timl'. 
<:11rroll r·«•ad a briPf' piHcP l'rom an unrnlnased 1,ovPI. llll'n shirt,·cl gnars and presnntnrl snvoral of his works ol' po«'trv. "Facts" was a humorous pil'Cl' marking a dPjiarturn l'rom tlw dry wit and humor ,·xhibitPd in his prosl' works. 
In .. Eight Frugmnnts for Kurt Cobain'' Carroll, 1tlso 1111 11c1'.o!llplislwd musician, nmpathiznrl wHh th<' pn•ssur1•s of l'n11111 and thn downward spiral of drng Us<' that Cobain 1mdurnd. l'.ltimatnly. he q1ll'stio11nd Cobain's commitment lo tlrn nncrgy and l'ullillnwnt of' his art, and asked why such a violPnl final acl was rwcnssary. 
"Train Surl'ing" was another work Carroll sPlnrlPd l'or llrn l'Vnning. Based on Carroll's ohs1•rvatio11s in llio dn Janeiro, thn poem offered ,1 l'irst-p11rson 1wrspectivn of a youth who "surfnd' atop a bul1!1t train in a drug-impaired stalli. 
Carroll's works hav11 appearnd in "Holling Stmw" and "1'01\try" magazines, and in the film "l'11Nrv in Motion." In addition to thr11e music alb11nis with tlw .lim Carroll Band, Carroll rPIPasPd a spokPn•word rncording. "Praying Mantis," in I 1J1JI . 
Carroll. born and rais11d in Nnw York City, is best known as till' author of "Tim Baskotball Diaries," a rhro11klP ol' his t.imP as a high-school baskr)tlrnll star at Manhattan's Trinity lligh School. 

The 32nd Annual Sophomore Literary continues Wednesday with author Raymond Feist. Thursday will feature readings by Notre Dame students and the Festival concludes f'riday with author and poet Annie Finch. All readings arc in Washington I/all, followed by a reception in LaFortune Ballroom. 

RCIA program prepares for Easter Vigil 
By ERICA THESING A,sisranr News Editor 
As Catholics around the world cclehratn Ash Wndnesday today, 40 people in the Notre Dame community begin their final prnparations for initiation into Llw Catholic Church. 
Tim participants in this year's HCIA (HitP of Christian Initiation of' Adults) program ut Notre Danw are split into two groups. TwclvP of tlrn participants am ('.aLnchunwns, whci an• unbaptized peopln senking mnmlrnrship in the Church. They will rnc11iv11 tlw sacranrnnts of Baptism, Eutlrnrist and C:onlirmalion at the Eastnr Vigil in tlrn Basilica ol' tho Sacrnd Heart. 
The remaining 28 arP candidates, baptiwd Christians seeking full comnrnnion in tho Church. They will nic11ive Eucharist and Conlirmation at the Vigil. 
Each ,mtflchumen and candidate has 11 sponsor to help him or hnr through this jour­ney. The catechumen or candidate may snlect a sponsor, or rnceive one through Campus Ministry. 
Freshman Jason Braun, sponsor of fresh­man catechumr.n KAilh Anderson, hopns that receiving the sacramm1ts will lw very mean­ingful for Andorson. Braun spoke ospocially about tho sacrament of' the Eucharist. which he called a gift. 
"I would hopn ho [Anderson! would gain 11 love for the Church and tlw Catholic faith that will grow for the rest of his lifo," Braun said. "I also hopc he would truly chnrish that gift he recnives." 
THE Pnornss On this Sunday, tlw lirst Sunday of L1111t. the catechurmms and candidates will partic­
sec RCIA / pagt· 4 


Performa group meets with campus, reports findings 
----------------------~ 

By COLLEEN McCARTHY 
Saint Mary's News Editor 

The first step of ddining tlw future l'or Saint Mary's came at a campus­wide meeting with tht1 Performa Consulting group. 
"This is a historic momr,nt for the prespnt and l'uturn of Saint Mary's College," said College prnsid11nl Marilou Eldred. "We are defining Urn future of facilities ntrnded and conlig­uring orcurrent facilities." 
The meeting was t.he culmination or tlw first phase of the project, which included meetings with rnpresnnta­tiv11s from all major campus con­stituency groups. 
Of <,Ci total rncommendations made by Perl'orma, 21J are one-pnrcent rec­ornm()ndations, meaning tlrn cost is under $5,000. There are 37 addition­al recommendations. e·ach having costs over $5,000, said Carolyn Marrow. Performa ropresimtative. 
"Now that we have a fairly good idea of what the needs of the campus are, we can pursue the next phases," she said. 
Maintaining a student-cnnternd environment was key, according to Marrow. 
"Whnn students suggested the need for a multi-purpose student center on campus, they were right on targnl. There is a definite need for that," slw said. 
Making the campus more studcnt­centnrnd also includes other faclliti11s, Marrow sairl. 
"Thn rncomnrnndation in that area is more far-roaching than just a stu­chmt center," she said. "For nxnmpl11, 1lealth Snrviccs is in an area that is less than d11sirable in terms of being st udent-ccntered." 
Porl'orma both crnated and priori­tized a list of needs for the Collegn. with improved communication among campus constituenciPs and the outside community topping the list. 
In response lo this. Pcrforma roc­ornmnnded holding a College "media day" in the fall to better acquaint mombers of local electronic and print media about College events. 
Other priorities included examining teaching space, improving r«)sidc!rn:n hall space and improving dining space. 
l'nrrorma is rurnintlv in tlw pro1:rn;s of' conducting a sp,{cc uUliza, lion sl.udy at Saint Mary's. 
"You hav«' a lot ol' spacn on cam­pus, but it is not bning US()cl as el'li­cinntly as it could Im," said ~farrow. 
Students nwcting with 1'1\rl'orma l'rnquently voicnd a ncrnd for improv• ing rnsiclPnrn hall spac•.p and rrPaling a morn indnpnndnnl living Pnviron­nwnt, Marrow said. 
"It's not so much WP !ward as WP obsorvPd st.uclnnts 1w1HI a living spat:P that will help tlw transition lwtw1'011 collnge living and ind1•pP1HIPnl. liv­fng," she said. 
01111 option Marrow 11rnntiorrnd was aparlnwnt or suitn-styl" accomn11Hla­lions. 
"This is onn of tho most s111111 things in higher education right now," slrn said. 
Addressing the issun ol' dining spacn includns currnnt plnns to reno­
see PERFORMA / page 6 


.. --.. 
page 2 The Observer• INSIDE Wednesday, February 17, 1999 
¦ lNSmE COLUMN 

Give it up 

Well folks. it's here. Ash Wednesday. The lwginning of the 40-day season of fish, sacri­lin\ and self-righteousness we like to rail L11nt. 
Remember when we wPre kids asking our brothers and sisters and schoolmaLes what we were giving up for Lent? Worrying about how to decide? Discussing it cmd­
lessly as the inevitable Wednesday drew ever closer'? Wondering what Colleen Gaughen the cafeteria will serve Associate Vicwpoim on Fridavs'? Ediror 
Not m~ch has changed. I have heard way too much talk around this overgrown parochial school lately about '\yhat we're going to give up for Lent." We still ask one another what the Great Sacrifice will be. discussing it endlessly as our days to indulge in decadence grow fewer and fewer. And we still wonder what amazing concoctions the dining halls will come up with on Pridavs. 
In the inidst of our self-righteous pondering, 1do believe we have forgotten that Christ commands us to internalize sacrifice. Don't tell one another that you are fasting or make a big scene in the street, hP says, hut rather kf1ep it to yourselves. He knows. So why do we ask and inform one another what we're giving up for Lent? It's none of anyone's business! 
And if you really think about it, how could our insignificant sacrifices ever compare to Christ's? They can't. I know the custom is born of the ages, but denying ourselves chocolate. or smoking, or television, or any of the other little things we give up don't make us bettlff people. Besides, you know, you just know that you're going to sneak in a candy bar or a cigarette or a sitcom when the going gets tough or when you feel you "deserve" it somehow. 
My absolute favorite reason we have for our "sacrifices" during Lent, however, is when they somehow benefit us. Oh, I'm giving up sweets because I'm trying to lose weight. Oh, I'm trying to quit smoking so I'm giving it up for Lent. Oh, I need to study more so I'm giv­ing up watching TV. Um, doesn't that defeat the purpose? 
Now. I know there are a lot of seriously devout believers here who will more than likely make some equally serious sacrifices. I've known people who have given up coats, shoes and using their cars. Now that's sacri­fice. 
But why do we need a designated season to remember Christ? We don't. We can celebrate and mourn Hirn every day, and we should. Not just during Lent. And truly remembering Jesus calls for more than personal sacrifice, internalized or displayed. He asked us to remember the weak, the sick, the cold, the hungry, and the lonely. Not just between February and April, but all days, every day. 
Not eating meat on Fridays is ridiculous too (especially the absurd absence of bacon bits). It used to be a big sacrifice when the custom was developed and meat was such a rarity, but more often than not nowadays, fish would be the greater sacrifice, especially if you're from the coast. And does the dining hall ever think of non-Catholics when they plan their exciting Friday menu? Didn't think so. 
So let's stop asking each other what we're giving up for Lent and really ask ourselves just why we're doing it. And instead of giving something up, why don't we simply give? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column 
are those of the author and not necessarily 
those ofThe Observer. 
¦ TooAv'S STAFF 
News Scene Erica The..ing Emmett Malloy Maggy Tinucci Graphics Laura Rompf Cristin Manary Sports Lab Tech 
Anthony Bianco Liz Lang Viewpoint Eddie Llull 








utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Utah professor influential in reforming Miranda law 
SALT LAKE CITY 
Criminals will no longer be able to claim protection on account of tech­nicalities under the Miranda warn­ing, duo to the efforts of' a Utah law professor. 
Paul CassPII has been advocating reform for the laws governing the Miranda warning. Monday, the 4th Circuit Court of Appeals handed down the decision that defendants in fedf)ral cases cannot suppress confes­sions. 
"for the last seven years, I hav!l been trying to raise the issue as a neutral force un the court," Cassell said. 
The Fifth Amendment of the U.S. Constitution forbids forced self­incrimination. Courts haw• interpret­ed that to be a protection against "involuntary" confession, Cassell said. 
"The Miranda added new rules on 
¦ GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY Students fight single-sex dorm policy 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
The American Civil Liberties Union will review Thursday the case of two GW freshmen who are battling the University's single-sex room policy. Crawford Hall residents Clark Harding and Kathy Rooney said they lobbied Senior Assistant Dean of Students Mike Walker for a policy change at a Feb. 2 meeting. Rooney said Walker told her if the University receives enough student and administrative sup­port, a change in the policy could happen ¼ithin a year and a half. Walker, however, could not give an update on the sit­uation because he said changing housing policies is a long and slow process. "Change is slow ... especially of this mag­nitude," Walker said. Rooney said she hopes the ACLU will take the case when it reviews proposed litigation at its monthly meeting Thursday. Rooney and Harding have con­tinued to plead their case through e-mails to deans in the Community Living and Learning Center. 
¦ UN!VERSlTY OF WlSCONS!N 
Universities support sweatshop code 
COLUMBUS. Ohio 
A spree of protests at Duke, Georgetown and Wisconsin has rekindled the debate on the use of sweatshops to manu­facture collegiate-logo apparel. Following a student sit-in that ended Friday, the University of Wisconsin, with the sup­port of 18 other universities, proposed a code to the Collegiate Licensing Company, which represents some 170 universities nationwide, but not Ohio State. The proposed code is an attempt to monitor the factories in which colle­giate apparel is made. Claire Herbst, campus editor for the University of Wisconsin Badger Herald, said the university's sit-in was based on three principles their chancellor eventu­ally backed. "The first and most important was a push for full disclosure," she said. "The current regulations do not require companies to say where their facilities are located." Herbst said the other objectives called for the enforcement of a living wage, which is similar to a minimum wage. 

¦ SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
S Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWealher®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperature~ 

Wednesday ~ ,t~r, :~:1-~r: 
•··•·•.'.'.·.3·•.•·...· .... '' s•• "'.'.".••·.•2·. ·
·: ·,t:::.o'.,.. ..,··'''·*··di 
,', .
Thursday 

Friday j ~ •)~4 f023; 
·.;.· ,:: 

Saturday 
,'21 Sunday 21 
(s-.\f .. 


top of that. Those new rules are that police have to give warning lo sus­pects," ho said. "Congress peeled back those additional safeguards and went back to the original voluntari­ness approach. The criminal doesn't have to say anything." 
In United States vs. Dickerson, the defendant argued he didn't get his Miranda warning early on, and police didn't read him his rights until after he confessed. Cassell said. "Ile got off for the technicality." 
He argued that the technicality was 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, Feb. 17. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 
......,... ................ 

© 1999 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
PrtllUrtf.' 
® © B EZJ Cll . ~ cm O· 1,i-«¥u,; 
High Low Showers Rain T-storms FlurrlH Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via Anociated Press 
¦ DUI<£ Ul\l!VERS!TY Company admits to giving fake awards 
DURHAM, N.C. 

AdamsVision failed to deliver its Scholar-Leadership Award, stinging three Duke freshman and 51 students nationwide and leading many to accuse the company's founder of trickery. Last January, 51 collcige-bound high school seniors thought they had hit the scholarship jackpot. These outstanding scholars, among them three current DukP freshmen, won the AdamsVision USA Scholar-Leadership Award, which promised them $10,000 per year for /'our years. One year latnr, the students haven't seen a single cent and AdamsVision has ad.milted that the money was never there. Val Adams, who founded thn Houston-based compa­ny, said he is still trying to procurn funding. ''I'm very sad­dened that we're at the point that we arh, but at the same time I'm very hopPl'ul that we will get these scholarships started and be able to continue our commitment," he told The Associated Press. 
¦ UN!VERS!TY OF iOWA Board opposes tuition reciprocity 
IOWA CITY 

Members of the Iowa state Board of Regents oppose a pro­posed bill in the state House of Representatives that would allow students from neighboring statns to pay in-state tuition at regents' institutions. Tuition reciprocity, an issue that has been brought up in the Legislature several times in past years, allows non-Iowa residents to pay a resident rate. The bill would permit the board to negotiate reciprocity agree­ments with other states. "I don't have a desire to have reci­procity because I don't know if' we'll end up on the short or long end of the stick," said Regent David Fislrnr. "Nonresident tuition is very important, and it keeps resident tuition reasonable." Minnesota has reciprocity agreements with Wisconsin, North Dakota, South Dakota and Ontario, Canada. The cost of in-state and reciprocal tuition at the University of Minnesota, Twin Cities, for tlrn 1998-99 school year is $4,458. 
irrelevant bccausn Dickerson gave the confossion voluntarily. 
"The 4th Circuit said that we're not going to get into tnchnical rights about Miranda," he said. "Tho main issue is whether tho confession was voluntary." 
Cassell won a case in tlrn U.S. District Court in Salt Lakn City on a similar argumnnt on Dec. 31, 1997. 
"lt was the same issue, and thn court agreed with me," Cassell said. "There arc thosn who would argtw the other way and say the Miranda is a constitutional right, but the court agreed with me." 
The circuit court decided thci Miranda rules are not constitutional rights, but are only "safeguards" Congress can changn and modify. 
This decision docs not discount the Miranda warning, but it does not allow criminals to claim defense on such a technicality, Im said. 

The Observer iUSPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 

q_Q,~pc@Q~~u
except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a rnCmuer of 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
the Assoc,i;1ted Press. All rc-produ..:tion rights arc reserved. 
Via Associated Press GtephicsNet 

Atlanta  38  30  Chicago  38  30  New York  56  41  
Austin  65  46  Denver  60  29  San Diego  66  54  
Boise  38  33  Detroit  36  35  St. Louis  47  31  
Boston  4:,  34  Fargo  20  6  Tampa  76  56  

2QUS WWW ......,_._....-............. ~-------­
Wednesday, february 17. 1999 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
¦ BLACK HISTORY MONTH 


Presentation explores identificati.on and stereotypes 
By RUTH SNELL why you exist," King said. "You don't Nrw< Wric~r think about it until it happens to you. Some people haven't experienced 
Usin~ role-playing as a method to strong stHreotypical situations, and 1•xprnss rac1' and agt!-hi'!sfld slm•tio• have a harder timo rccogni.zing the typr.s, lkrtha King, diversity support niality and effect of these situations." spN'ialisL at Memorial Ilospitnl. spoke She also stressed the nm~essity nf 
about icfontil"ication and how these building relationships without stcr('o­
st1>r(lolyp11s a.ffflcl puoplo Tuesday lyping people. 
('V'1llilll4. "Reality is wlrnn poo­King's pn•spnta-ple pr<'sum<1 to know us, ti 11n, "C!ln fi 1l Mt t they will put up signs to SLudnnts in proVfl they know our <;ul­
'UNtESS WE GET PAST 

T ll rbuIP nt Tim1~i-;," turo," King said. "And
SOCIETAL STEREOTYP­

w1ts parl of Saint for every person they Mary's Coll<lg11 and ING, IT'S NOT POSSIBtE TO think thcv know, there tlw Office of an~ that niany more Urny
SEE PEOPlE FOR THEIR TRUE

M11ltil"ult111·1d Affairs' don't. !low long will it ronl.inuing rn!Pbra­SELVFS. I SHOULD BE ABLE take people to reallze lhat thorn is so much
tion of Black History TO KNOW WHO I AM ••• 
Month. value in each of us?" ''l)nlni,s WP gt)l WITHOUT BEING IN A POLITI· King told a story that 
fiast sodutal stpr('O• CAL PARTY OR RACE OR affected how sho !'law typing. lt's not possl-hr.rself when confrontod bh! to spc people fiit MJNORI1Y POPUI..ATION.' \\1th stereotypes. both as 
th(•ir truo !rnlvC's." ,t woman and as an 
King said. ''I should African•Amf•rican. Sh<1 
HHH111A KJNC

lw abln to know who explained that at a job J arn, nnd other p110-IJ!Vb11Sl1Y Sl/PPORTSPECIAUST interview in the late p]i' without bring in l960s, I.he int<'rvi<wvors a political party or race or minority took her pkturo with a Polaroid cam• popullltion." era and then mad11 fun of the picture 
Propln oftt>n quostion minorities while she was still in the room, about tllllir background as an attempt "I glimpsed the picturo and wanted to find out when-' they am from. but to cry and tell everybody off," King this only brc!lds feelings of diITeronce said. "I wasn't interested in the job and separntion, King said. anymore, but how do you hold your 
"You have to justify who you are and head up and gracefully walk out? I 

ATH• ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING• MECHANICAL ENGINEERING• BUSINESS ANALYSI 
When something is too extreme for words, it's to the Nth degree. And that's the level of technology you'll experience at Raytheon. 
Raytheon has formed o new technological superpower-Raytheon Systems Company, composed of four major technological giants, Raytheon Electronic Systems, Raytheon E·Systems, Raytheon Tl Systems and Hughes Aircraft. The new Raytheon Systems Company is driving technology to the limit. And we're looking for engineers who wont to push the envelope. 8reolc new ground. Make their mark. 
At Raytheon, you'll take technology-and your career-to the highe51 pos5ible level. You'll toke it to the Nth. We'll be visiting your campus soon. Contact your career placement office now to schedule an interview, or check out our website al www.royjobs.com. If you are unable to meet with us, please send your resume to: Raytheon Resume Processing Center, P.O. Box 660246, MS-201, Dallas, TX 75266. We have many exciting opportunities available and we would like lo talk to you. 
Internet: www.royjobs.com • E-mail: resume@royjobs.com 
U.S. citizenship may be required. We are an equal opportunity employer. 
Raytheon 

Wednesday, February 17, 1999

page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 

RCIA 
continued from page 1 
ipate in the Rite of Sending. This ceremony marks the sending of both groups to Saint Matthew's Cathedral where Bishop John D'Arey will orticially recognize them in Monday's Rite of Election celebration. After the Rite of Election, the catechu­mens will be known as the elect. This new name reflects the idea that they are sent, with the sup­port of the faith community, to the Bishop to join God's elect. 
"It means that the community supports tlwm and encourages them to continue in their faith journey, and we continue to welcome them into our faith," said Tami Schmitz, RC.IA direc­tor for Campus 
freshman Jason

Ministry. 
Braun, helps

"Also, the 
'My SPONSOR IS A 
him answer

Bishop will 
REALLY RELIGIOUS 
questions about

welcome them 
Church teach­

specifically at GUY. ANYTHING I'M CON­
ings.

tlrn Rite of 
FUSED ABOUT OR DON'T 
"My sponsor is

Election. They have been KNOW ABOUT, I CAN ASK a really religious guy," Anderson
chosen, or 
HIM. IF HE DOESN'T KNOW 
said. "Anything

'elected,' to be part of our THE ANSWER, HE'LL AND IT I'm confused about or don't
faith comrnu-OUT.' 
know about, I

nity." 
can ask him. If

Lent is known as the 
KEITH ANDERSO!j he doesn't know 
gion and why Catholics do some of the things they do." 
He explained that RCIA, because it involves the educa­tion of adults as opposed to chil­dren, is a good alternative to Sunday school or Catholic schools. He said that r,hild ren might not understand the things they are learning. 
"It's just that l feel like l want to learn more about the religion, and this seems like the best way," he said. "I think RCIA is a good alternative. I think I'm learning more because I'm an adult." 
THE SPONSORS 
The role of the sponsor is to walk along with the catechumen or candidate on his or her jour­ney throughout the RCIA process, said Schmitz. 
Anderson said 
that his sponsor, 

period of Puri fi cation and Enlightenment in the RCIA process. During this time, the newly elect and candidates will focus more deeply on their 
prayer life, the Scriptures and what their membership in the faith community means to them, said Tami Schmitz, RCIA direc­
tor for Campus Ministry. 
"That's the final preparation toward receiving the sacra­ments." she said. 
Anderson said that this time 

would allow him to be sure that 
he is ready to receive the sacra­
ments. Anderson explained that 
although he is unbaptized, he 
was raised as a Catholic and is 
CAT!XHUMEN the answer, he'll find it out." Braun is enthusiastic about his role as sponsor. He explained that he met Anderson through Air Force H0TC and offered to help Anderson through the RCIA process. "When he was talking about it at the beginning of the year, I jumped at the opportunity," he said. "I was tickled pink to be able to do it." Braun said that he has tried to be there for Anderson and help in any way he can. "I haven't pushed him a lot. I've tried to be a sounding board," he said. 

rience for both of us. We're both learning a· lot. It's been quite amazing." 
THE TEAM 
The candidates and the spon­sors are not the only ones involved in this journey. Th0, RCIA program is directed by a team of 13 people, including seminarians, Master of Divinity students and two undergradu­ates, as well as 
Schmitz, Frank Santoni of Campus Ministry and Father Peter Rocca. rector of the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
The team meets each Tuesday to plan presentations and topics for the catechumens and candi­dates to study during their Sunday meetings. The team also plans a retreat each semester for those involved in the RCIA program. 
"It has definitely taught me a lot about the Catholic faith," said sophomore Dawn Lardner, a team member. "It's interesting because we are there to teach them, but through the research we do and the presentations we give, we learn a lot." 

Contest sponsored by the College of Business 
Notre Dame In the New Millennium 



What_will Notre D~me be like in the new Millennium? Twenty years from now, what will the campus look like? How will students learn? What will residential life be like? What new fields of study will be ~dded? Will social life s~II exist in the form of the ever-popular SYR? The College of Business mv1tes you to be a futunst and participate In a competition. 
Eligibility: ~INotre Dame Juniors, Sophomores, and First Year students. Students can work in groups of up to five people. 
Prizes per 
submission: First Prize: $1,500 and presentation to the Business Advisory Council Second Prize: $750 
*
Third Prize: $500 
Requirements: 
I. To enter the contest, send e-mail to state your participation by Monday, March 1" to Knapp.9@nd.edu. An information session will be held for all participants at 5:00 PM on March 1" in Room 204 CoBA. 
2. 
Imagine It is the year 2020. Create a view book for undergraduate admissions In the year 2020 (12-15 pages). 

3. 
Please touch upon the following five topics in your writing: 


a. Campus life b. Student profile 
* 

c. 
Curriculum issues d. Leaming environment 

e. 
Spiritual life 


4. 
Projects are due on April 12, 1999. 

5. 
Winners will be notified by April 26, 1999. 


Questions: Contact Sarah Knapp at Knapp.9@nd.edu. or 631-3277. 

familiar with the Mass. He is eager to receive communion, enabling him to participate fully in tho Mass. 
"Being here was a good opportunity, with the programs and the classes being so readily available," he said. 'Tm getting closer to God." 
Freshman Patrick Murphy. another r.andiclate, expressed similar foelings. 
'Tm trying to be more Catholic myself'," he said. "I understand more about the rdi­panion at this point. lle's on the road. I'm lih a road guard that starts making noise. lie can drive himself." 
Braun also emphasized that the process has benefited him­self as much as Anderson. He explained that he and Anderson take trips to the Grotto together and keep each other account­able for things such as praying before meals. 
"It really helps my faith out," he said. "It's been a good expe­

.---------·-----··-------------------......-----...-a;.-, ----------·..·--·....-----·---..... __.,;;_._:::::;.•.:;.;;;_;._;;;;;;;;:;;;;;,,.;;;;;::;....;;;:::;;;--:::==, 

.. :,,. 






· 1·
o·· · n. 
.
t..·....··..···.····•··•·.....····.·.·.·.. .....·.·.·..·····.·..·.........···.·.··.-.~.,.·...
. :.·r.'.,..·••..".·..·.. ······.·.·.·' ·-· ...·•·•...·.·••.·•·······.·.·.·.·'"'··., ·. •.. ·. . . ' 
:-.. :~:J::a':, •:::..:::%:~;;J~,:./.~·:··,:;., ,•, :· ,_-; .. 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 

AFP Photo 

Kurds gather outside the Greek Embassy in London, mounting a demol'!stration. Police negotiated Tuesday with about 50 Kurdish 
protesters who have barricaded themselves inside the Embassy as part of an international wave of protests over the detention of 
Kurdish rebel leader Abdullah Ocalan. 
Kurds protest rebel leader's detention 
Wednesday, h:bruary 17, 1999 
¦ 
First Lady considers Senate 
WASIIIN(;TON 

Ilillary l!odlrn111 Clinlon said Tunsday slw would givP "rnn•ful th1n1ght" to running for a ! r.s. Sr•natl• Sf'at frnrn Nr•w Yrir-k. ThrP<' confi­dants s.tid slw was talking with s11pp11rtns alio11t what it would tak1• to run a S('rious rampaign. TIH• lirsl lady promisPd lo makP lwr dPdsion lah,r this yPar. Prnsidi,nL Clinton 'i;llcl on l\111nd11y slw would !w "t1•1-rili1· in the Sr·n,1tP... Mrs. Cli11t.1111 said shP was d1•Pply ).(l'Htili1•tl hy "!]11• laq.(P m1mlif'r of 1wopln who havP l'lll'1111ragi•cl 1111\ to considPr running" !'or lht• St·nalf' s1•al llf'ing up1•1H·d by l111• rPliri'llll'llt of IJP1111HTalir Snn. DaniPI l'alrkk :\lnv11illa11 in 2000..lust !'our davs :ill11r Uw PIHi ol' lwr hw,lmnd's impnadmi1•11L onhial. Cli11t1111 s,1id slw liar/ not h<'l'll 11IJIP to give mul'lt thought tC1 a pol.f'ntial t"andidacy but w111ild Ill' ahln to forus 1111 it now. Slw said slw wo11ld mnkl' lwr dp1·ision lut1·1· this y<\ar 
Woman teaches husband a lesson by b~rning house down 
COi.UM Bit\, TPl!ll. 

i\ wo11w11 who policP say wantNI lo UH1d1 lwr Ill'\\' lmslrnml a !Psson about tlw dangPrs 11f s11111ki11g in hPd was rhargPd with burning down tlw lwusP. l.i11da Stnwart. :{1), put a lil dgarPlfP on !lw rnupfp's lwd Sunday and h•ft tlw how,P. polic11 said. "She admitt1id to inlc~nlionally slarting Lim firn," D1•tective \ilirkPy .lrnws said. "/\rrnrding to lwr, he had l'alkn asl..1•p tlw night bPf'ore and lnft a ciga­rl'llf' burning. and it burrwd a small arna on tlw lwd. Sn slw said slw was going to show him what could lmppPn if she didn't catch it." llcr husband, Tim, was not homn when wh<'n llw lirn starl!~d about 10:30 a.m. Wlwn lw rPlttr1tPd. Lim house was gutted. Stewart was a1T1~stf'CI on arson charges. Tlw Stewarts Wf'n• marriPd Lwo months ago. 
Shampoo sham leads to arrest 
I.OS ANCELES 

Call it a shampno sham. Tm1 truckloads of' rountPrf«>it Paul Mitclwll shampoo have boen dPstroy('d because the product could have marrPd llH' integrity of the designer brand. autlrnrili1is said. Tlw phony suds also pose a lwallh risk to 1·onsumnrs, said Los /\ngr.les County l'ros1icutor Bill Clark. "Who knows what tlw 1wxt cotmtnrfoit1,r will put in a bot­tit~? It is important for people to lrnvn conli­d1) ll !'£' in a lradl'mark," Clark said. lnvesligators confiscated nearly $1 million worth of tlw shamJJoo and made three arnisls aflpr tracking the phony suds to a Los AngPlt1s-arna hottl1\r in Fr.bruary 1997. Tlw bogus product was burned in a New York inrirwrator earlier this month. Police an• still searching for .Joseph Thompson, the allPg<•rf ringlnader of' the count11rfoiting oper­ation. Thompson. :n. ran his own shampoo company until it. Wt\nt out of husiness in I (JIJfi. Prosecutors contend Im then started rPlalH'ling gPnPrir shampoo as the rostlir.r Paul Mitdinll brand. 

¦UM Hf./Jt,.­
Dow 
AMEX: 695.84

./ONES 
-0.28 Nasdali: 2.fft87 
8 02 
NYSE:

903 
581.46 
-8.28 S&I' 500: 
1241 .. 87 

Compositetl l.74 
Volume: 832,700,000 
VOLUME LEADERS 
IHtilH 'hlt·1uNCJ; $ <it\lN 

Ill.I l LPMl'U l I 1-l: t"Uftl' IHI I 
l 12S ~Hl5 \11(:Jl(l~(H ri tml· "'NT -U t,6 25 \',\HOO JN< Vll<ltl -17.(,2:,, l.l.Ul5 11\JlJ. l UH.J' 1'.\IT .I25 IZ~.375 AMI l!lt ,\ l tN/ f~! ,,._,, M~I. 1 noo 1~Q_,S(1 (,J~co W~Tl.\.t IN(. c~cn Cl t)t,!,062~ WOMUH. "O!tw-f j_\:( W("4}M .UitJ2:\ HJ.HO \kP 1l1.I' nc:11 1\/\l'l>R~ \l'V -0.)5 122.~75 11,~1 11\M .n.2s 172..'iO 
AsSOCl,\Tf'1l Pn ESS 

ATHENS 
Kurdish protesters seized Greek missions around Europe today, taking diplo­mats and families hostage, in mass protests ovnr the arrest of a fugitive Kurdish leader. 
The Kurds accused Greece of allowing guerrilla leader Abdullah Ocalan to be taken from its embassy in Kenya and transported to Turkey, and they vented their fury on Greek missions in at least 21 European cities. 
Protesters took hostages at Greek missions in the Netherlands, Austria. Germany, and Italy, and the Kenyan Embassy in Paris, but no injuries were report­ed. In cities across Europe, Kurds threatened to burn Greek embassies or con­sulates they occupied or set themslllves afire. 
Turkey announced today that it had arrested Ocalan, the leader of Kurds fighting for autonomy in the south­eastern part of the country. Turkey has long sought to prosecute Ocalan on terror­ism charges. Greece denied any role in his arrest. 
In the Netherlands, hun­dreds of angry Kurds forced their way. through a police cordon in The Hague and into the house of the Greek ambassador before dawn. They were holding three people, including the envoy's wife and 8-year-old son. police spokeswoman Lineke Bennema said. The ambassador was not a hostage. 
Kurdish protesters took the Greek ambassador and 
four others hostage at the Greek Embassy in Vienna, and also seized the Kenyan Embassy in the Austrian capital, police said. The ambassador was unharmed. 
In Bonn, a diplomat in the Greek Embassy and an offi­cial in the Kenyan Embassy were caught in the seized buildings. police said. Kurds occupying the Greek con­sulate in Milan, Italy, released six officials after holding them 'for several hours, Italian news agen­cies said. 
French police stormed the Kenyan Embassy in Paris, ejecting 16 Kurds and free­ing seven Kenyan officials they had held for several hours. And in the German city of Leipzig. police eject­ed Kurds occupying the Greek consulate, freeing three officials. 
Kurds also !mid the Greek missions in London and in Bern, Switzerland, and the Greek consulate in lkrlin. The protesters threat1ined to set thems11lves on lire if police tried to eject them. 
Two women were serious­ly burrrnd when tlrny set themselvr.s on fire during protests in Bnrlin and Copenhagen, Denmark. A woman snen with her clothes alight at tho London protest was taken to a hos­pital. It was not known if she set lrnrsdf' on fire. 
In Strasbourg. Franco, police wern able to eject Kurds holding the Greek consulate, arresting 20 and injuring several slightly in the scur11cs, French tnlevi­sio n said. In Germany, police stormed consulates in Stuttgart and Cologne to remove protesters. 



New Orleans celebrates Mardi Gras 
ASSOCIATED Pmiss .. for Zulu Md-.Rex, two ofthe lnrgost 
NEWOHLEANS 
Merry makers danced in the streets, bartered for beads and cheered the gaudy parades as angels, C()Wbovs and clowns rnat'thed the streets from dawn to dusk in tho city's Mardi Gras celebration. 
The bttsh is the final fling before Lent, which many Christians observe from Ash Wednesday to Easter by fasting or by giving up something, like rneat or sweeL-,. 
More than a doznn parades -not counting the small marching societies like cla.rbietist Pete fotmLain's. Ualf~ Past Marching Club -rolled from early morning until dark. · 
"We've got everybody here from Grandma on down," said Mike Broud, one of 32 family members dressed as white rabbits a.Jong the para,dt} route , 
parades. 
"We're here every year. It's a com­bination family reunion and party. There's nothing elso like it in the wodd.tt 
With sunshine and tempt')rature in the 70s, crowds quickly grew, Police believed the combination of good weather and a four-day weekend. thanks to ,Presidents Day on Monday. would boost. the. throng to a record size. 
"They're huge crowds, much bigg<ff than last year,·· said police spokesman Marlon Defilo. "We had 
1.5 million people then. We'll have ovet 2 million this vear." 
Arrests were up. slightly in the French Quarter, Defilo said, but they were all misdemeanors -nudity, uri­nating' in pu.bl1c, trespassing. ,."N<) prob(t)~S at·aJl,.r~ally," he 
said. 
Satin-dad angels rubbed elbows with clowns and cowboys along St. Charles Av(nrne, the mansion•li1wd parade route where 11oats rollod for over eight hours. 
·Children and adults stakod out spots before dawn, then clamornd for trinkets tossed by costumed riders. 
"I spend about $2,000 on b1H1ds and I throw every single one of them before the end of tho day," said Stacie Honore, 32, n rider on the Zulu parade. "You can't beliflve how much fun it is to throw your money away." 
People on balconies in the Frenrh Quarter tossed lHrnds to tlHl cille­brants b,ilow. Although it is illogal, many flashed flesh in exchange for the long strings of plastic beads. 
"It's just good clean fun, why would they arrest you for that?" asked Judy Hudson, 26, of Los Angeles. 

+22.1 . 
--·--------.111111111-........ ..--..------·---~-....----, 
page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 17, 1999 
By JOSHUA BOURGEQIS New-, Wrire, 
As Lent be.gins, Burger King and The Huddle will con-tinue serving meat on Fridays, even though both North and SouH1 Dining Halls refrain from this in accor­dance with the Cathtilic cus­lorn. 
"The Huddle has always had tho tradition of continu­ing to serve meat on tl1o!W days and 0urger King will dn the same." said Jim La Bella, operations manager of the Huddlfl "There ar() students who aro not Catholic and therefore do not partalrn in the custom, and we are here if ihey want a ua.c<in cheese­burger or any other meat product." 
Rurger King and The Huddle t"an also continue to 

PerforIDa 
continued from page 1 
vatc the Noble Family Dining I!all. 
"The plans involve leaving the dining hall where it is but improving upon it," she said. 
Dining improvements extend beyond the dining hall, said Marrow. 
"We need to consider the issue holistically. Right now, people can only buy a meal plan that gives them three 

serve mt;at b"'cimse tti~y are 
cash.:based; .... a.· ·.. 
s.~g'f . ... ,.··...•·•...... ,.... ~.fli·fl::<:
Huddle. ,fr~ not·•~.ttipletely ·· abandoning the Catholic cus­tom.. 
"The markeHn~ pMple for 
bothJ}urgcr 1qn..gJ1nd. the Huddl~ are W'Q'rking .on advertisements that 'Will pro­mote the non-meat products sold here," said La. Bella. 
La Rella hopes these adveri.iS(lments .~ill,romind the students thcey .ctm stHJ findnon-meat products at Burger King, The Huddle and the other eating places within l.aFortune, 
''ABK·Big Fish sandwich, a ch<-ese or· vegetable pizza,' a Mediterranean Garden sub and a grilled cheese sand• wich with tomatosoup can be found daily here [in taForlunel," said La Bella. 
meals a day in the dining hall. They either buy that or they don't. Another option would be exploring i~e possibility of a more nexible meal plan which many other institutions have," she said. 
The next campus-wide meet­ing will be on March 16 at 3 
p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium, where Pr.rforma will present more developments. The con­sulting group plans to present the master plan to the Board of Trustees at their April meeting. An implementation plan will follow this presentation. 

Please recycle The Observer 

The Office of Information Technologies' Solutions Center is having an early "Spring Technology Sale." 
February 19, 1999 
9:00 a.m ~ 6:00 p.m. 
University of Notre Dame Stepan Center 
All new computers, monitors, and printers have been discounted beyond our already low educational pricing. Used systems, from the Campus Workstation Program, have been priced to sell quickly. 
If you're in the market for a computer, come to Stepan Center to see for yourself. 
You can find more information and a partial list of available systems on our Web Site at.. 

http://www.nd.edu/~solution 


"It must be asked how many Christians really know and put into practice the principles ofthe church's social doctrine." --John Paul II -­
INFORMATION OPEN HOUSE 

for A NEW UNDERGRADUATE CONCENTRATION 
•
ID 

CATHOLIC SOCIAL TRADITION 

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 7 P.M. -8 P.M. CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Come join us and find out,about a'new:program where 'you can learn the Catholic tradition regarding civil society, the economy, church, and state. 
Wednesday, h:·hruary 17, 1999 The Oh,ervcr • NEWS 
¦ BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 




Survey rates campus events' success 
By EMILY PARKER News W!'itcr 
J'lw Board DI" (;ov1 1rnann, 11xami1H!d a snrvPy rPgarding tlw percoption of Coll1•gt~ 11wnts. including Ker•nan 1!1wu11 a11 d 11 oI I' I I' ra I i. at I.Ill? ir nurn ting 1'1H'sday night. 
S(mior Colhw11 Murphy pr,:sentml the rPsulls of the s1irvPy, which polled Cullcgn s1:11iors and nchi1:v1,d a 60-pN· rm11 rPturn. 
"Saint Mary's dnes an awesomti job provi<li11g a wide rang<' ol' posilivn pv1mts," Murphy said. 
Whotlwr Llw ev1mt was seen as a good social oppurtunily and V\holher it. wns pcrc,iiv!'d as df'mmming to women wllrn th11 two main factors in detom1in­ing an PVl'nt's rating. The Keenan Bl'Vllf' was rwrcnivnd ns being highly controvnrsial while Hotel Prati received good rnlings. 
"If it wns se1m as n 1a;ood social oppor­tunHy, Uie effect on the p<•1·ception or being a S11int Mnry's studnnf was good. If it was considered denrnaning, thrin 5~l pcrcc11t thought it had a negative f\!'fnct on tlw pnrc1•ption. Out of 21 evonts, only a fow were considered demeaning. I would say tho College is doing a gnnd job," Murphy conclu<lmJ. 
In othnr nows: 

•Linda 
Timm, vice president t'or stu­dent affairs. is now iH·cepting nomina· lions for U11i Lurnon Christi Award, which rncognizes someone as tho "soul of Saint Mary's". 

"The ·soul' is sorn1.1oml whose contri• butions tu Saint Mary's have spannod four ynars." said Sarnb Siefert. "You could go up to them nnd have them say 'I am Saint Mary·s."' 

•The 
Board of Trustees will be on campus Feb. 18 to meet with students and discuss their thoughts on the College. Board members will bn avail­able from 7 to 8 p.m. on that day in 


iwery residence hall lounge. 
•Other upcoming ,wonts incluclo an open-mike night at Dalloway's Coffee Ilouse on Feb. 24 and a possible Notre Dame/Saint Mary's pride week from March 21-26. Tcmtativoly, this wonk would include Mass in the Basilica of the Sacred lie art March 21, an outdoor pir.nic at Saint Mary's March 23, a speech by Father Theodore llcsburgh. Notre Damn president emeritus, about Sister Mac.leleva on March 24, a "p()w• der pull"' football game between Saint Marv's and Not.re Dame women March 25, 1md a dance nt Notre Dame March 
26. 

•The 
sophomore class is planning a study break for Feb. 22. 

•"rim 
Spanish Club presentod a co­sponsorsb ip petition for a trip to Chicago to view folk art. 

•The 
Political Science Club also pre­sented a co-sponsorship petition for increao;f'd funds. 


page 7 

¦ CUBA 
Bishops call for an end to embargo 
Associated Press 
Iii\V!\NA Homan Catholic bishops from across tlw Anwricas callr,d T111\sday f'or an Plld lo thP 
U.S. mnbargo against Cuba and said tlwy hopPd for improvPd rPlations lwtwPnn llu• two countrins. 
''ll has always bPPll tlw posit.ion of' tlw bishops of tho Unitml Statns ... to Sl1<'k tlw lnss(rning and civon tlw ending of tlw embargo," said Archbishop Th1wdor<' Mccarrick, or Nnwark. N.J. 
"Lit.tin by little tlwrn havP lrnnn changes." tlrn archbishop said of nwdnsl. measures designed to improve contact bP1.wron tho Arnnrican and Cuban poopln. announced bv l'rosidnnt Clinton in .January. · 
"Although WP wPlcomi, tlu•m. wn hop<' Llwy am just t.lrn bPgi1111i11g of' morP sub­stantial changcs," he said. 
Clinto11's 111Past11·ps would IPt morl' Americans scnrl morrny to C11ba11s. olTPr dirnct mail s1irvicn lwlwcpn llw two coun· trios and oxpnnd dirnct chart.or flights, hut tho nmbargo would rnmain intact. 
Mccarrick was among fiw cardinals, 2!i bishops and 01m priPst gathcrnd for tlw Latin American Episcopal Conl'Pl"l!tH·n. lwld for thn first tinw on limn 011 this rnn1111u• nist island. 
Also for tlrn first time. tlw group includ!'s I!i bishops from tlw llnitl'd St.all's and Canada. Church sottrrPs said that thl' nrnnting could lw tlw firsl movP loward pPrmannntly 1•xpanding tlw Latin Amnrican confornnrn to inrl11dl' bishops from North Anwrica. 
Prnsidnnt FidPI Castro. drPsSPd in a dark suit, mnt with tlw prPlat.Ps. Tlw nw<'ling was nxpectnd lo co11li111w into tlw 11arly hours of'WndnPsday. 
Tim bishops said tlwy hopPd that hy mPPting lwn• tlwy would providl' a moclPI for U.S.•Cuba rPlations. "WP hopP !hat this will lw anotlwr good stPp toward 1111' llJH'll· 1rnss that tlrn lloly Faflwr spokP ol"' wlwn l'opP John l'aul II visitPcl Cuba last yP:1r. Mccarrick said. 
During nrnetings bi,hind closPd doors al. a luxury hotPI. t.lw prPlaf.l•s l'or two days havn studincl John Paul's call for intPnsiw nvangnlization in tlw WnstPl'll I IPmisplwrn and tho church's role in tlw rngion in tlw nnxt millennium. 
Also on tlrn study agr\lHla was a look at tlrn Cuban church one yPar after tlw pon­tiff's historic .January I<JCJ8 trip. 
Thn presidm1t of' thn bishop's r:onfornncn, i\rchbishop Oscar llodriguPZ Maradiaga of T<)gucigalpa, llonduras, said thP group plannml to provid11 tlrn Cuban church with funds to build morn sanr:tuarins. It also plans to send morn priPsts and missionar­ies to lrnlp in nvangnlization p(Torts in Cuba oncn it gets approval f'rom Castro's gowrn• mnnt. 


.......name:,..... ,......... ,,,.. ,.................,....,....,..........,,,,...,.,..,,.. 
.......addresa:..................................................................... . 
... phone:...................-·--··................... ...... aga:..........................cable. •1181em:.......................... 
~ lo: MTV Pmn\ollon, 1StS &oa6"y, Mfl, 'wYoil, NY 1®38 


VIEWPOINT 
page 8-------------------------
-----------------Wednesday, February 17, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 

~\ DRAG A1-1\JNN[RT [X)LLAI--I BILL T~R:JUGH 
NOTRE DAMF OrnCF.: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, [N 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAl~T MARY°s OHICE: 309 Haggar, Notre D:une, IN 46556 (2 [ 9) 284-5365 

ATRi\lLAl-t PARK, AND T~!;.Y AIN'T NO T£LLIK WHAT YOU'LL FIND-.. ,,. T C l
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
-varne.s at'\ • ~ on 
El>ITOR·IN-CHIEF 
Paula.don~Ys Clintor.
I leather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MAI\AGER Brian Reinthaler Kyle Carlin 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Hearher Mat:Ken1.ic 
':£.USE ME,DARUN', BIJ 
I SWEAR I JUST SAY 
NEWS ElllTOR ... ............. Michelle Kn1pa ADVERTISING MANAGER........•........•....•.Bryan Lurz 
A R)SSIBLE. CAM~·~~ 
Yll-Wl'OINT EDITOR.. ......... Eduardo Llull AD UESIGN MANAGER ........................ Brm Hudat 
CONTRIBUTION GO 8) ... 
SPORTS EDITOR ..................... Kathleen Lopez SYSTEMS MA.'1AGER .....................Michael Rrouillct 
SCENE EDITORS ...........................Sarah Dylag CONTROLLER .........Dave Rogero Krisri Klitsch Wm ADMINISTRATOR .......................Allison Krilla SAINT MARY'S EDITOR ...... M. Shannon Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR ...............................Pete Cilell:i 
PHOTO EDITOH ........•...•..••......Kevin Dalum 
The Obs'en·cr is thc-indq~ndcm nL·wsp;1pcr puhlishc..'t.i by th\" \t11dcnh otrhe University ofNotre 0;1111c du Ltc .md "i\int M,Hy's College. it docs not necessarily reOccc thl'.' policies of rhc administration ofrither institution. Thl' 111.-ws. 1s reported a~ accl!ril.tdy and objectively as pos.'iihk•, Umigm:d ediroriah; rq,1esenr the opinion ofthe majority ofrht f:.dit<1r-m-Chief, Managing Ediwr, Al>.sist:.tnt Man~1ging F.ditor and dt·panment editors. Conunentarlc.!., lcm:n. and columm prcsem the views ofrhc .rnthors, and noc necessJrily d1rn,c ofThe Observer. Vicwpoinr -'"pace is ;,vailahlc ro ,11! mc:mhcrs nf rhc None ll1mc/S,1im M;1ry's community and to ,ill readc;r:,. The free expression ofv,1ryinb opinions through letter"\ i~ cncm1r:1gcd. 
Contacting The Observer F.diror-in-Chief GJl-4542 Businrn Office 631-5.,13 M:111:1ging Ediror/Assisr:1m ME 6.ll-4541 Adverrning 6J 1-6')00/8840 New,;/Phorn 6.l 1-5.1n Systems 631-8839 Sport.Ii 651-4543 fax 651-6927 Scenl"'ISJim Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-M:ul Viewpoint. 1 €Vnd.edu Oay Editor/Viewpoint 631-530.1 i\dE-:Y!ail observer@darwin.(.'.c.nd.edu ()ffice Manager/General lnformarion 631-7471 News E-M,il observer.obsnews. l@1n.d.edu 

¦ CAPPv'S CORNER 
In a previous existence, I served as the sole coach of a .Junior Varsity Football Team in Louisville, Kentucky. I had way more responsibility than my Notre Dame Football Coaching 
Cappy 


Gagnon 
"brethren." For example, Coach Davie does not have to drive the team bus to the Purdue Game, like I drove my play­ers to Oldham Countv. 
Another chore was· taping ankles, which I'm pretty sure Coach Davie leaves to the trainnrs. Actually, my players soon turned to the basketball coach for ankle taping, after they saw what a lousy job I did. 
Another big difference was our approach to player personnel. With only 18 players, l was looking for the "best available athlete." As I selected each stalwart, I looked for just the right position for him. My very first game, I selected Manley Stinson (Nominal Determinism = big, burly, square-jawed guy) as team captain. Manley was too slow to play any "skill position" and too small (at 130 pounds) to play the lint1. Presto, he became my middlr. line­bachr, where he was more bupkus than Rutkus. So much for Nominal Determinism. 
Just before my first-ever game, \1iddle Linebacker Stinson asked "Aren't you going to give us a pep talk?" "Well, sure Manley", l replied. trying not to reveal that I had no idea what to say. I assembled my dozen and a half guys. I remmnhered evnry word of thn famous Knute Rockne pep talk rncording that my fathnr got as part of a 1955 Gillette Hazor promotion ­


Football as Metaphor 
"We're gonna go inside 'em and outside 'cm and inside 'cm and outside 'em ... they can't stop us ... today's the day we're gonna win!" I decided against that one, but I did use my best Rockne­staccato voice. I loved the way he began with "All right, you men," which actual­ly sounded like "All right, chew men." 
My pep talk was going to capitalize on our military meals and always cleaned his plate in the dining hall ("Coach, are you going to finish your cornbread?"). Ile would have been called "stout" by people in my father's generation. Or, portly. 
Jeff eventually became a useful play­er, at right tackle, on our fullback screen play. After Jeffs opponent would sprint past him a couple of times, I 
school her­
spPed enough to catch tlrn little itage (e.g. miscreant was lying on the ground discipline, wondering what happerwd to our t1~amwork, football (and also realizing he was 
toughness, never-say­die, etc.). I went through all the cliches ("Give me 110 per­cent;" "they 
put their pants on one leg at a time;" "It's 

not the size of the dog in the fight, it's the size of the fight in the dog;" ete.). I ended with, "The other team knows we're a military school. What do you suppose they're thinking right now?" I was hoping for "We're tough and we won't be heat!". Instead, Manley piped up with 'They think we're a bunch of sissies!" Although I nearly choked on his reply, l recovered to say, "That's right! Now go on out there and prove them wrong!". 
Judging by the final score, the oppos­ing coach must have asked his players for 115 percent. Lesson learned: Leave pre-game Pep Talks to real coaches. 
My second year coaching, I had the biggest player I ever coached. Jeff Burns was about 6' 2", a good 4 in<..:hcs taller than most ofmy other players. Tie admitted to 235 pounds. Jeff missed few would call the screen. Jeff seldom actu­ally blocked anyone, mind you. but he did take up a lot of room, forcing defen­sive backs to run around him, while mv fullback could hide behind him. . 
Jeff worked very hard for me. By the end of the year, he may actually have weighed 235 pounds. I have never for­gotten Jeff Burns for one play he made in our 1967 "big game" with Louisville Country Day School. Hard to believn that a school with such an effete name (the kind of school where ·you would find Niles and Frazier Crane on the chess team?) could possibly rival the Kentucky Military Institute, but they did. 
With under a minute left in thn game, we held a 12-7 lead, and the ball, just short of the goal line. Wn wnrn just n111­ning dive plays, like from the days of Pudge lleffelfinger. All of' a sudden, my left halfback let loose of the ball. like it was a wet bar of' soap, right into LCD arms. 
This fleet-footed del"ensive back was quickly on his way to stealing my big win, as he raced 98 yards the other 
way. The only player I had with 


going to have to start studying a lot harder for my English rlasses). 
Every one of my players stood and watc:hrd our victory go out the window. 
Every one, that is, except Jeff Burns. Prom the opposite side of the field, and absolutely the f'ur­tlrnst person from the play (why we ran to the left), .ld'f took off after a speedy kid who was alrnady past midfield. 

No, he didn't catch him, or any­thing Hudy-ish likn that, but just before the specdstPr rnaclwd tlw end zone, Jeff' got clipped. Flag. Fifteen yards. Ref: '"l'lw furn blc recovery stands, but we're bringing 
tho hall back to the point of' the infrac­tion" (about 80 yards). WA w1mi so pumped, and LCD was so deflated, that we were able to hold tlwm f'or the final few plays. KM! wins. KMI wins. 
Moral of th11 story: Nevnr give up. Nnvnr. 

Cappy Gagnon, '66, recenlfy al/ended a reunion ofthe high school where he coached liasebafl <mdfoo//Ja/f more than 30 years ago. /Jespile the many accomplishments in lheir personal and professional lives, mosl of hh,Jormer players wanted only t.o rehash mean­ingless games of the past. 
The views expressed in this column are Uw.,;e of the author and nol neces­sarily I.hose of The Observer. 
¦ DOONESBURY 
SO I§ A Gl<ACt:Fl/1..-l:XIT ST1<All36YIN 5/&HT? IF 
~ ITHAfi escAPf;/? 7Hf5 
ArreN770N Or lH/9~­
SON@CAP/Wt,,HIU. 
0/J&e/(VcRI 
A57H8YflAJ,e.FRt:#1 "1}{8GPIRT, f;VIJNT!f; CA/?l£Nl(IIJ.aYa.lT 
f,F CLWll<Ot.-, !<U5HIAl3 "Jl¥</ARP 7HE31RflEN(}(afENT-7H& CAP­
5JCW~ OF mt;MOST7l/M.laZJ­
a/5 ~OFAt? T/t1$.1 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
IN/?t:,w, ON&M~Or 
me 0A7Ht'RIN&6/?AVITA9HW£ /5lHt;.5{//J/il!?NAPP&APANC/3 r.F 0,1/NtWTHISllFIANSATg//1.-Y IUH/'!5f/Ol/5l;BR/£F/NG5! 
~ 
¦ O.uon: OF THE DAY 
, J:'or a bad hangover, C take the juice of two quarts of whiskey.' 
-Eddie Condon 



VIEWPOINT 
WedncsJay, Febrnary l 7, 1999 os~ERVER page 9 
¦ Goo 'N LtFE 
Cooking for God 
Ynars ago -oven before Knights of Columbus Archbishop .lohn Carroll Council 5570 had a pormammt home -tl!e!le me:1 had a sn<Tfll. which Lo this day is safely guarded. Hs ex1stencr1 is widely known around South Bend, bringing people 1:r?m milos away to help thorn raisii money for worthy causes. Still, few hav11 nvur tried to pry into thl:! truth behind the secret. 
~!!l:!!==!!:!!==!!::!I:=====·============== That's hocause thA secret is tho spaghetti sauce, which people simply prefor to enjoy.
Julie A. 
Past Grand Knight John Hucanc1 takes chargA or Orn kitchnn 
for the monthly spaghetti dinners and crPatPs this deleclabl" 

---------------sauce. Tho tradition bf'gan whrn he mad1i a present of the recipe to the Council as a solution to their discussi1m about fund-raising activities. The cxacL dato has bMn forgottun by most "Ask John," was the standard reply to the question. "I have the datl' writtrn down sonH\wh,•re," Hucano ~aid, claiming it was "sometime in the 
!%Os.·· 
As part of this tradition, Hucano's crew may know that garlic, orngano and ot.h!'r ingredients am combined to achieve a uniqLm rast,•. but only Lim "Cher· knows Hw nxact rnt-msure­nwnts. Whi111 the inviting aroma fills tho building, Past Grand Knight Stanley !lfirda prepan•s enough vermice!!i to re~d :WO­:mo hungry patrons -up to (15 pounds 0~1 some ~>ccasw!1s. I le amt Hurnrrn huvc, huen working tognthor 111 tho kttdrnn tor so 
Ferraro 

'FATHER BERNARD GAUC, COUNCIL CHAPIAIN 
AND PASTOR Of HOLY FAMILY PARISH, SEFS 

THESE SPAGHETTI DINNERS AS "AN EXCELLENT WAY 
TO RAISE FUNDS f'OR CHARITABLE CAUSES, AND A 
GREAT OPPORTUNllY FOR PEOPl:ETO ENJOY GOOD 
FOOD AND SOCIAUZE."' 
long, they have tho process down to an art. . 
Them are otlrnr spaghetti dinners over which Rucano pre­sides. as well. To thank the local priesL,;, religious sisters and brothers ror their work in the parishes and schools, tho·Knights sponsor "Clergy Night" each autumn. They ~ost a twi~e-yearly "Treasure Chest" dinner -another fund rmser -which involves moving all their cooking equipment across town in available station wagons to Corpus Christi Parish, which nearly doubhis thflir seating capacity. Being a member of this parish, Hucano also voluntoers his secrtit sauce for their annual spaghC'tti dinner, which tills the hall in shifts. 
Patrons delight in these meals, which are all-you-can-eat, and boast rrosh vegelahles, brflad. salad and dessert. as well as the main course. One mother commontod at a rocent dinner that Hurano's spaghetti is the only kind her 12-year-old son will eat without complaining. Retjrees on a lixed income find it area­sonably priced, hoalthy alternative to restaurant food. 
Father Bernard Galic, Council chaplain and pastor of Holy Family l'arish, sees these spaghetti dinners as "nn excellent . way to raise l'unds for charitabfo causes, and a great opportum­ty for proplc to enjoy good food an,d socialize." Indeed. to he . presimt in the hall on the second 1 hursday of any ~wnth dl_mng tht: hours ol' 4pm to 7pm is to hnar lively conversation dealmg with every topic under the sun. . . 
Grand Knight Hay Sommers has nothing but prmse for the dndicated crew that works nt the spaghetti dinners. "They put in a lot nf hours." he remarked. Council members givo of their time and enerbry to make these dinners a success, with volun­tonrs serving coffee or wine, refilling the buffet line, or sweating ovor pots of boiling wator in tho kilthen. Tho la.dies' auxiliary -the Ladies of tho Knights -!:ttaffs the food line with gracious smiles. Evt•n some of the Knight's younger children and grand~ d1ildrnn holp out hy setting tables, clearing and washing dishes. 
Thou~h Hucano and Derda (and quite a number of Council rnnmbers) are rctiref's thl'mselves. they are inspired to continue ihnse dinners. The proct)eds benefit the GibaulL flome in Torre llttute, St. Joseph County Right to Lifo and tho Women's Ca~o Cf"ntcr:<;. Younger Council members look to the future. and .1t has hHen provided that the "secruC of Council 5570 will bti pnssn<l to the noxt. generation. most. likely Rur.ano's own son, also a Council member. 
Plans are in the discussion stage to l:!Xpnnd the Council's hall, in order tn ac(·ommodat!> Jnrgor numbers of patrons at the din­ners without the need for waiting. For now. though. thewait is wdl worth it for those who appreciate a good meal, and a good s1•cret. 
Julie 11. Ferraro is the local sales representative for Failhwear, and is the executil'e director of'l1ze PIT Troupe the­curt• company. H<>r column appears every other Wednesday. 
The uiews e:rpressed in this cnlumn are those of the author · and rwl necessarily those of The Observer. · · 
¦ LETTERS TO TH£ EDITOR 
Apologies for the 

Decision on the 
Non-Discrimination 

Clause 
The rncent decision of Notre Dame's Board of Trustees as reported in the New York Times(".. . UnivNsity of Notrn Daine vot<~d unanimously .. . not to includr. homosr.xuality in its anti-discrimi­nation policy.") reminds me of lines from Urn epic pO!~rn ".John Brown's Body." Dame Judith Andr.rso11, portraying the graceful arrogance of a plantation misln~ss, speaks about slaves and tlrnir eventual rnsurrection. "Why, of course," slrn says. "l\ngroos will be in the heavenly man­sion. bul-thl'rc-down-in th(~ servant's quartNs." 
The I 2 "judges" of tlw Board of' Trustees ~Six priusts. six layrnnnl arc moru ad11pt of reading llrnir lawyrirs' briers than they am of' rPading the (;ospcls. 
Tnll Marv, thn Mother of Notro Dame, your lngal argumonts for discriminating against her sons and daughtnrs. Mothers don't understand legal argumr.nts that humiliate lrnr childrcm In iwr nanw I apoiogiw. 
In the names of thousands of' gay lloly Cross Brothers, Sislms and prinsts who, since tlrn I 840's, loved NotrP Dame and worktid hard to !wlp makc it what she has lwcome. and arn now buried in tlw sacrNI soils or our c1nncterins. ! apologiw. 
In my own nanw, a gay Holy Cross pri,~st. a lov­ing son of Notrn Damn (':i:H, I apologiw to my brothnrs and sistr~rs on r·am1ms. 
Donald W. Whipple, C.S.C. 
Cocoa Beach. FL 
Fdmwy 7, I~99 
New York Times Article Got it 
Wrong: a 
Clarification 
Last Sunday's l'\ew York Times carried a story from thH i\P win1 in which I was inaccuratPly paraphrased by the local AP news writer. Thr, story was about the University I~e!lows' rejection of the addition ol' sexual orientation as a protect­ed category to the University's non-discrimination clauses. 
I have heard that the claim attributed to me has alarmed some people in high places on this cam­pus. The story pmsents it as a paraphrase: "the decision thwartcd plans by homosexual students lo test the University's discrimination policies in federal court. exactly what the school feared most." 
The sentence is a brief and careless paraphrase of a long conversation I had with Mr. Hoss, the AP news writer, regarding a statement he had reported in a piece earlier that week: that even ii' the non-discrimination clause were to pass. many of the closeted farulty at Urn University had said Uwy were unlikely to 'come out.' 
During tho interview on which tho paraphrase is based, Mr. Hoss asked my to speculate why Uwso faculty members thought as Lhey did. I offered that pr.rhaps this stf"mmed from the well­founded conviction that the University does not always abide by its own policies. Arter all, the Spirit of Inclusion is on tlrn books, yet the University actively discriminates against gay and lesbian students, alumni and prospective faculty. 
I concluded that even if the clanse were to bo accepted a few brave souls would still have to lest thfl water, come out of the closet. see how the University reacts. Then ii' the University treats them unfairly they could use the courts to force t/rn University to abide by its own policy. Mr. !loss's paraphrase of our conversation is simply innccurate. 
Tim Byrne 
Department of Philosophy Member of the Progressive Student Alliance February 14, 1999 

Congressman Hyde "Putting on the Old Lady" 
Hncently regular roaders of The Obsnrvor weni trnatod with lnttnrs concerning llw Honorable I lonry l lyd,1. Hepuhlican Co11gressma11 rcprcscnLi11g suhurha11 Chicago. Thn first lntt1\r, writtnn by 1111 English profossor from Saint Mary's Collcg<). takPs Mr. llydc to task f'or his faultv usn of a tlrnsaurus. Thn socond IPt­tn, snnt by a Notrn Damn frnshman. takns llH\ µrol'essor to task l'or his faulty usn ol' syntax. I rospeclfully submit I.hat both missed Urn point. 
Tlw llonorahln llonry llydP has admitlNl his s,ixual indiscretions and n•p(ml.Pd. !11\ has. as St. l'aul advises us all lo do, tak,·n off llw old man. Paul also Pxhorts us that. al'ter taking off tlrn old man, WP an• to put on t.Iw new man. llPrl' is wlH•rP tlrn llonorablc lknry llyd11 makns his mistakP. Tim llonorahln !IPnry llyclc has indPPd takPn off tlw old man. But, judging l'rom his latest posturings and prolnstations br.f'orn tlw Smiatn. lw has put 011 tlw old 
lady. 
(Rev.) William D. Scetch, C.S.C. Rector, Morri,\l·y Manor 
h·brn,1rr IIJ, I 9<J•J 


Big Ten Decision Worthy of Celebration 
Tim news of the Trusln1~·s unanimous votn in London is worthy of cnlnbralion. However. it is beyond my knn that tlrn University Officials nntnrtained tho notion in tho first placn. 
Many of tlrn disndvantagPs of a union with the Big Tnn am obvious on llrnir fac,i: the impact on Notrn Danw's national (ii' not international) status; the dfnct on alumni contributions; the dntrimnnt to our football program (reducing it from nationwidn to rngionall; tho potential lost rnv1•nuns from a rnnewal of' the NBC contract; and on and on. It would not only involVP thn high loss of' revenue, but, in my opinion, a diminution in prcstign. 
I don't moan to imply that tlw Big T1in schools lack prnstign. Quite the contrary. They am a group ol' outstanding institu­tions. But, Notre Damn is unique unto ilsnlf. Its founders and its leadrrs put it on this pndestal and tlrnrn am no signs ol' it going anyplace but to a highPr pmkstal. So why do we need the Big Ten'! Wn am financially indopend11nt and well rmdownd. Wo am 
, scholastically equal to or suµnrior to the Big Ten schools and tlwri1 is virtually noth­ing Notre Dame can't achicvn on its own. 
It boils down to onn obvious fact. Tlw Big Tim wants the money and prnstigo of Notrn Dame. We give away a part of oursclv,1s and gain nothing -liknly lose a gn~at dnal. 
Isn't it ironic that on nunwrnus occasions in tlrn early part of Urn l'.entury, Notrn Dame ncer!Pd and sought memh,irship in tho Big Ten only to b1\ rebuffnd'! Thal was when wo needed thnm. Now, it appears they nr~t\d us. It's r11froshing to sen tlw tahl<' turned. 
Long live the Big Ten and long livn an indopendont Notrn Damn. 
James Fisher, P.C. Kingston, Nrw York February H, 1')9') 


~•---... --.--~.....-..,...,---~ -·•--------=-----.•---a----------·-------~•••-------­
a¦s-~~--~-----... 


O
THE 

page 10 Wednesday, February 17, 1999
BSERVIR 


In tlH'! wake of a concert that brought one M th<' biggest names in Hock and Roll to tho Notre Oam11 campus, it sePms only appropri­ate to savor somn of the greatest moments in the carnc~r of Bob Ovlan. Although the Valentine's Day show at the Joyce Center may have been a good one, there recently was a release nf onf' of' the most famous Dylan performances ever. On May 17, 1966, in Manchester, England, Bob Dylan shocked the music world and his landmark pP.rf'ormance is now available on a two CD set entitled Bob Dylan Live 1966. In 1965 Bob Dylan was riding the fame pro­duced by his well-recieved fulk anthems which coincided with much of thr>. social environment of the era. It was during this time that he did some­thing unprecedented he made a switch to tho "electric realm" uf Rock and Roll. This move shocked, pleased and upset many of his fans. Some booed, some cheered, some called him a sellout. Regardless, Dylan continued to do his thing. At the concert in Manchester, he began tlrn show with an all acoustic, solo set. The first CD consists of "She Belongs to Mc," "Fourth Time Around," "Visions of Johanna," "Its All Over Now Baby Blue," "Desolation Row," "Just Like a Wom~n" and the ever popular "Mr.Tambourine Man. Although the first set was well-recievetl, it was wlrnn Dylan came out for tlrn second S(\t, dnctric guitar in hand, that the confrontational pnrfor­mancn bngan. As tlw band rolled through the sr.cund set of' loud, heavy, hard rock and roll, there worn continual hoots andhollr.r~ through­out. These arn audibln on the recording. 
Probably the most famous point in tlw concert comes near the end when a man from tlw crowd yells out "Judas!" at which Dylan responds with an "I don't lrnli1w1! you!" and swiftly l!!IIS tho hand to play tlrn 1wxt one loud. Tlw band rillns into the powerful pinnacle of" the p1\rf'ormance, "Like a Rolling Stone." 
This recording has bnen well known in circlns of Dylan fans as onti 01' the grnat bootli~g record­ings to own. Finally the day has come whern a digitally relined and remastnrnd copy is availabln through the permannnce of two CDs. 
For thos1i who am Dylan fans, who w1mt to tlrn concert on Sunday, or who simply would likn to enjoy a great piece of rock and roll history, !Joh Dylan Liue 1966 is highly rncomm1rnd1HI. It stands as a great live performance and a chance to hear Bob Dylan do what Im did best -changt\ the face of Hock and Holl. 
Dave Clark 


"He made rock music as though the Rolling Stones had never been." 
Eeryone rnmembcrs the big songs. "You Hit the lime in tlw coconut/shake 'em both up/ put the lime in the coconut, tlmn you'll eel better." Or perhaps "one is tlrn loneli­est numlwr thern be." •Jfohind these. some of the most mmnorablc pop lyrics or the past 25 years. was a man whose musical genius went much ·rur­thcr. llarry Nilsson. born in 1941, bcgan his musical career in 1964. For the nr,xt several years he shuf­flf,d f"rom label to label recording small, generally tmsuccessf'ul singles. In 196 7 fate and dedication lPd Nilsson to a contract with RCA and his first full length album. Pandemonium Shadow Show, which met with critical, but not popular success. Nilsson's first popular breakthrough came a year later, in 1968, when the Beatles held their famous i\ppln HP.cords press conference and named Nilsson their favorite American artist and favorite American group. After the press conference, Nilsson became good friends with John Lennon and Ringo Starr, both of whom would remain by his sitle for years. Following the Beatles' endorsement. interest in Nilsson exploded. Calls started coming in, asking about his music and performances. Because he had never had the opportunity to pGrform, he sim­ply told reporters "I'm not. I haven't, rdon't." In 1969, Nilsson's rendition of "Everybody's Talkin" (taken from his first rnlease) was featured in the film Midnight Cowboy. The song won him his first of several Grammys. In 1971 he wrote and scored the ABC television special The Point! which featured narration by Dustin 1-loll'man. The program escalated his suc­cess and led to the release of Nilsson Schmilson, his most successful album which features "Jump Into The Fire" and "Coconut." As the 1970s progressed, Nilsson became more and more dependant on alcohol. This had a notice­able impact on his records. After several years, however, he began to dry up and work more seri­ously on his records, hut his voice was permanent­ly damaged in 1974 while recording the album Pussy Cats, During this recording, he ruptured one 

Nilsson with friends Ringo Starr, Elton John and 
Paul and Linda McCartney. 
of his vocal chords and this too took a toll on his careei·. 
His popularity dwindled and eventually faded into the oblivion ofthe 1980s. Following the mur­der of John Lennon, Nilsson became an active sup­porter of more strict gun control laws, a cause for which he fought until his death. After completing the vocal tracks for a new album in 1994, hP. died in his sleep, ending a 30 year career and 53 year Hfe. 
The importance of Nilsson lies in his musical innovation and flawless performance. A., has been said, "he made rock music as though the Rolling Stones had never been." His music is a reminder that pop music need not be judged only by the standards to which we have become accustomed, but it can also be innovative and challenging and still have mass appeal. 
Stuart Smith 


Nilsson Schmilsson 


Son of Schmillson 




-
O
THE 
Wednesday, J:chruary 17, 1999 BSERVER page I l 
' 
.
lb

a 11mremews 
g111iss i( had to ltap1w11 somc•time or 
nrwt.lwr In Llw middlP ol' 1.ny hnn ngainst 
,ill tlw nap plap'.d on µopular radio sta­
tions. I was ltil by a t.011 or hricks -otlwr­wisP known ns Cn•gg !\lnxandnr and his pot proj(•d, tllP N1•w Haclintls. Tlin poppy soumls 111' tlw hit si11gl1'. 1•ntii.1Pd "You Ge1 Whnl You (;ivc" i,i;rahhnd alwld of' my nars, and has ynl lo !Pt go. 
Th" album by th1• N<•w lla<licals. /'vfoyhe 1'011 ·,,,. li1•,·r1 nrr,inu·aslwd Too dc•monslratos f'Vf'rything that. is right and (\VHrything that is wrong about poptilar music. 
Tlw most solid part of lhis a<lvnnturc is Lhc worthy mnlndim, llmt 1-;rac11 nearly cvnry son14. "Mot.lwr WP .lust Can't Ct't Enough" gnts tlrn Cl) o['f' to a rnrking iHarl, com pldc with a funky guitar riff and a strong piano m11dlny. ''I llopP I Didn't .lust' Civ<' /\way tl1<' linding" sl'l'llls likn il rould Im part of' a lounge band's l'PfH'rl.oirc and "Flow,irs" could have fit right in with the l 'J80s rock culturn. 
Now l!!l's talk about thr. lyrics which wn Pnc11unlrn· nn this rnr.ord. Tlw lyrir.s, penned hy hrainchild (;regg /\lnxander, arc divided. llall' of till' soni:;s are f"illed with brilliant versn and the other half' am t.otally useless. It is ama1.i11g that i\llixandPr can write some cool stuff and tlwn turn around and totally d1)stroy 1111ollwr piPc:c1 of music with his lyrics. 
Tilt> gr1\HlPsl lyrics on l111'. rnc:ord bnlong to "You c;PI ·what You Civn." This song radiates an optimistic vi<'w on lifn and lovP. "But when IIH• 11igill is l'alling//\nd you cannot find a l'rirind/You 1'1!nl your tree is hroaking/Juc;t tl1P11/Yo11'vt> got tlw music in you/Don't give up/You' vi• got a l'l'.ason to I ivn." 
So111<'li11ws I gt•l a bad grad«\ on a test or a girl [f'!ls lllP I'm an idiot. IIP!i, sonrntimns I (•v1•r1 1·,lll'! find anything good to Pal al South Dining Hall. Hui I _just I.urn on this song and I rPnli1P thal l n·al!y don'! have· any problems. .\II of' my prohl('lllS an• l'<'illly insig11ificant in 

tlw grand sdrn11rn of' things -lifo gcws on. l.ifc <ll.H!S 1101. go 011, hownver. f'or some ol' I.ho oth£ir songs. "SonH1ciay Wn'II Know" is by 
far Urn clwosinst song on the album. Check out some of thesn award-winning linPs ­"\r\'lrntcvcr lrnppm1cd l.o Emilia Lu·hart/Who holds tlrn stars up in t.hc sky/ls tnrn lnve once in a Ii/'e ti m n/Did tlrn capt.a in of llrn Titanic cry." 
llid llrn captain of the Titanic cry'' Arn you kidding nm'! 'i\'hat kind of question is that? Al1ixandnr also finds it fit to glorify hard drugs in 75 perc!rnt of the record. It's like n ·person tr.lling Urn same story over and over and over again. 
Tho Nnw Hadir.als might he pnp music's great new hope. Or 'they could Im thrown on the ''has-bcnn" shclf with some othor bands I know. Mayhe You '11e Been Rrainu•ashed Too has its ups and downs. But doesn't life have its up and downs? As Alexander says, "This world is gonna pull through." 
Geoff Rahie 
Watch for Scene reviewer Geoff Rahie and his band, Who's Yo Daddy?, at Acoustic Cafe this Thursday at 11:30 P.M. 
It goes without saying that prior to 1998, not too many people had ever heard of .Jay-Z. His albums, although quito popular among hip-hop music !'ans, never achif'vBd pop status. Jay's third album, Vol. 2 ... f-lard Knock Life, chang~~d all or that. bowf'vnr, mostly dtw to tlrn stwcr.ss of' the number ono single, "Can I Gel A ... " which had hPads bouncipg from coast to coast. But ii' wo vonturr. back bdorn Vol. 2 ... !lard Knock Ufe and evon before I997's In My Uferime ... Vol. l. we would stumble back into J<J'Hl, a year when the hip-hop community was lillnd with hardcore gangster wannabes. Where others proclaimed, h1iwever, Marcy Pro,iects' own Jay-Z lyrically illustrated that what he spoke was what he lived . .Jigga mixed original concopL<; with an impressive rhyming style and put together a rap classic called Reasona/Jle Doubt, which has just bom1 repackaged and re-released in 1999. Jay's debut album is lillo<l with highlight aftor highlight. Beforr. Little Orphan Annie was singing the hook on "!Jard Knock Life," \1ary J. Blige was doing the same on "Can't Knock tho Hustle," lieasonahle Ooubt's opening track in which Jay declares he was living lavishly long before getting his rap doal. Before 1998's sequel, Ja.y and young rapper Memphis Bleck were side by side on tho original "Coming of Age," a track which utilizes the crack gamf'/rap game metaphor to showcase the loyal relationship between a crafty veteran and an cager youngster. And before Amil was asking if she could get a "whoop-whoop" Foxy Brown had laced "Ain't no N*"**" with her unprecedented 90 sr.conds of pure rap excellence. Although originally released as a B-side, the song, sampled from the Four Tops' "Ain't no Woman Like the One I Got" received heavy rota­tion on BET and MTV and became an almost inst.ant hit. The concept? As long as Jay keeps his 

.,... 

New Radicals 
Maybe You've Been Brainwashed Too 
l\1CA Records 
*** ( out of five) 
woman (Foxy) wrapped up in extravagant luxu­ries, she dons not mind his extracurricular activi­ties -pure .ligga. 
Although tho majority of' th1• songs 011 Reasrmahle !)oubt clnal with m11rdPr, mavlw111 and the complexitiPs of' strPPI lil'n -"Hr:ooklyn's Finest," "Can I 1.ivn," "Fril'IHI or Fon" -nnvPr does .lay-Z creat11 a dull momPnt. 01w soon l)('gins to notice that il is not so murh what lw says as how he says it. 
Jay's rhymr.s am stylish, innovatiw and 1·lnwr. "22 Two's," a frnostyln song in whirh .lay USl'S -,. "two," "to" or "loo" twPnty-two timPs in tlw lirst Vt)rse is a prime nxampln -"l hPt>n around this block too many timns /rockPd too many rhymes/cocknd too many nines, Loo." 
Ho nows with an undaimt('(J cnnfidcnc,i that is as frightening lo listen to as it is intriguing. On "Dnad Presidents II" .lay rhynws, "MurdPr is a tough thing to digest/ it's a slow process/ and I ain't got nothing but time." 
Ilis vivid autlwnticity is dillicull lo dPny. ThPsP are not just tales, tlwsn am nwnwriPs. In anotlwr verse on "Presidents" Jay silm1r.<'S all lavish lifestyle trurnpetcirs by stating that what they have now is what he's had f'or y(•ars -"I dahblnd in crazy weight/without rap, I was crazy straight/partna, J'm still spending morrny f'rom 
'88." 
Finally, DJ Premier and Clark Km1t providu grit­ty, laid-back beats that showcase the book. not th<' cover. Jay-Z authored an autobiographical master­
·­
piece in a world of' mundane biographins .. , and ho's still doing it. 
Chris Ramos 
• 


awz:s 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, February 17, 1999 
• MnJ's COLLEGE Bl\S!{ETBAU

-
No. 2 Connecticut keeps edge with defeat of Rutgers 
STORRS, Conn. 
~1't't1nd-ranked Connecticut didn·1 look as crisp as it did for the l 0 weeks it was the No. 1 team in the conn try, but the Huskies had enough for an easy 77-64 Yirtory over Rutgers on TuPsrlny night. 
The Huskies (23-1. 14-1 Big EasO broke the 70-point mark for the first time in five games, but again an injury was the main concern at game's end. Starting center Jake Voskuhl missed almost the entire second half with a sore left foot, the same one that caused him to miss the game with Syracuse, the lluskies' only loss of the SBa­son. 
Richard Hamilton. the team's leading scorer at 21 points per game, again struggled from the field in his third game back from missing two games -onr the loss to Syracuse -with a right thigh bruise. He had 21 points on 5-for-16 shooting and is aver­aging 14 points since his return and is l 3-for-47 from the field, including 2-for-20 f'rom 3-point range. 
The lluskies shot 53 percent (28-for-53), the first time they have shot better than 42 percent in the last five games. 
RutgPrs (17-8. 9-6). which had won its last threP games and sf'wn of Pight. trailed 36-25 at halftinw. but \\·as \\·ithin 57-51 with 6:21 to play on a driving basknt by Rob I lodgson. 
Comwctkut asserted itself on 
the boards -the Huskies fin­
islwcl with a 37-25 advantage ­
and built the lead to 69-57 on a 
three-point play by Kevin 
Fre('man with 3:14 !Aft. 
I lami\ton went 6-for-6 from the 
foul linP ovAr the final 1:20 tn 
keep the Scarlet Knights at bay. 
Connecticut point guard Khalid El-Amin did not start for the first time this season for dis­ciplinary reasons that coach Jim Calhoun said were not violations of team rules. El-Amin was in the game after 4:18 had been played and he finished with eight points on 4-for-11 shooting with five turnovers. 
Freeman finished with 16 
points and nine rebounds, while 
Albert Mou ring added 11 points. 
Geoff Billet had 20 points for 
Rutgers, which has lost eight 

slraight games to Connecticut and trails 23-12 in the series, while Hodgson had 10. 
No. 4 MICHIGAN 82, 
PURDUE 69 

Jason Klein scored 22 points and fourth-ranked Michigan State inched closer to thf' Big Ten title with its school-record 12th straight win, 82-69 over Purdue on Tuesday night. 
Klein, who had only ei);{ht points at halftime. made seven of 10 field goal attempts, includ­ing 5-of-7 from 3-point range. 
.Jaraan Cornell scored 21 
points for Purdue (18-8, 6-6). 

The Spartans (2:1-4, 12-11 can clinch at least a sham of the reg­ular season championship with a win Thursday night when they visit Michigan. Last year, a late season loss to Purdue forced the Spartans to share the champi­onship with Illinois. 
The Spartans. leading 39-27 at halftime, fAd tlrn ball to Kl<>.in and he scored 1\-!ichigan State's first 1-1 points in a spectacular one-man burst to open the sec­ond half. 
The Boilermakers went the 
first 5:31 of the second half 
before tl1ey made their first field 
gnal -a layup by Mike 
Robinson. who finished with 12 
points. 

A jumper by Morris Peterson 
gave Michigan State its biggest 
lead. 54-31 with 14:59 remain­
ing. 

Purdue's Brian Cardinal 
scored tlrn game's first basket 
on a jumper. but the 
Boih,rmakers never led again. 

Cornell tied it 13-13 ·with a 3­
pointer with 11 :21 left. but Klein 
hit a 3-pointer in a 17-5 run that 
put the Spartans ahead 30-18 
with 4:14 left in the half. 

The Boilermakers made only 
12 of 31 field goal attempts in 
the first half. They weren't tak­
ing bad shots, but time after 
time Purdue shots were rimming 
thA basket. At least three shots 
went in and spun back out for 
the Boilermakers, who trailed 
39-27 at halftime. 
~o. 15 MIAi\11103, 
VILLANOVA 82 

Johnny Hemsley had 26 points and the 15th-ranked Miami Hurricanes scored 100 points for the first time in a Big East game, points and !Inward 19 for onds left gave the llurricanes beating Villanova 103-82 Villanova (18-8, 9-7). 100 points. They last reached Tuesday. Hemsley hit six of 10 3-point the milestone in a I01-97 dnu­
Tim .lames added 22 points for shots and reached double fig­b\c-overtimc victory over Plorida the Hurricanes (18-5 overall. 12-ures for the 18th consecutive State in Januarv 1990. 3 Big East), who set a school game. Mario Bland had 11 Miami's prc~ious high in the record with their 12th league points and 10 rnbounds for Big East came in a 96-91 dou­victory. including five in a row. Miami, and Kevin Houston and blc-overtime victory ov,:r SL Miami shot a season-best 61 Michael Simmons scored 10 John's in February I<)CJ(,. Thn percent. points apiccti. Hurricanes joined the lnagw: in 
John Celestand scored 25 Simmons' basket with 36 sec-1991. 
and is fifth in scoring (17.3 Syracuse is just 10-1 :{ 011 tho points per game). season and have fallen to ninth Danielle Green (ninth} and in tho confcrenr,e with a <,-1J Big continued from page 20 McMillen (l 0th) are also among East record. Tho Irish, on llw 
the conference leaders in scor­other hand, aro looking to job done, so we know that we ing. averaging 15.4 and I 5. l improve on their 20-3 ri;rord fought hard to the end and gave points per game. respectively. (12-3 in the conforcmcn). it our all." McMillen's 18-point perfor­Tonight's gamn at the .loyco 
The Irish will also be looking mance on Saturrlay moved her Center will proviclo the Irish for a big game out of Biley, who up to seventh all-time player in with the p1:rl'oct opportunity to has 10 double-doubles on the points scored at Notre Dame. avengn last Saturday's loss and season. The 6-foot-5 center is She also ranks second in threc­gain somn positivP monrnntum leading the conference in pointers made, trailing Beth heading into thn upcoming con­rebounding and blocked shots Morgan by just 11 . fernncP. tournam1mt. 
W.B-ball 

Second in the Big East in steals and assists, junior Niele Ivey (center) with need to team up with conference scoring leader Ruth Riley (background) in order to pull out a win against Syracuse tonight. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid.
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES 
Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise!5Nights $279!1ncludes Meals & Free Parties!Awesome Beaches.Nightlife!Departs From Florida!Cancun & Jamaica $399! springbreaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 
Spring Break Panama City $129!Boardwalk Room w/Kitchen Next To Clubs!? Parties-Free Drinks!Daytona $149!South Beach $129!Cocoa Beach $149! sprmgbreaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 
How Green is Green? Work in Ireland on a Student 
LOST: Notre Dame Class Ring. Description: Aquamarine stone with name engraved on the inside of the ring. lnitials-PML. Call 273-9813. 
WANTED 
CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT Workers earn up to $2,000+/month (w/tips & bene­fits).World Travel'Land-Tour jobs up to $5,000-$7,000/summer.Ask us howl 517-336-4235 Ext.C55842 

Local Attorney/CPA looking for undergraduate/graduate to work part-time with flexible hours. Interested persons should call 273­2118 to set up an interview. 
BOYS & GIRLS CLUB NEEDS VOLUNTEER B-BALL COACHES! Season runs 3-99 to 5-7-99 Ca II 232-2048 for more info 
FOR RENT 
SUMMER CAMP JOBS WALK TO SCHOOL LAND/WATER SPORTS 2-6 BEDROOM ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS/ STARTING $185 
LAKE PLACID MONTH/PERSON VISIT US www.raquettelake.com 232-2595 1-800-786-8373 
House for Rent. Two Blocks from campus. Available in June for Summer. August for fall. Dishwasher, Washer/Dryer, full basement, large backyard, and off street parking. MONITORED SECURITY SYSTEM INCLUDED!! KITCHEN BEING REMODELED THIS SPRING! CAIi 289-4712 
FLORIDA SPRING BREAK 
SANDPIPER-BEACON BEACH RESORT PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA FROM $159 PER PER­SON 3 POOLS 1 INDOOR POOULAZY RIVER RIDE HUGE BEACHSIDE HOTTUB SUITES UP TO 10 PEO-
Apply at 315 LaFortune. 
laptop pc computer. ..ethernet, cd ram and floppy drive, pentiu.m Hey to the Mardi Gras road trip 

processor, modem. Perfect tor writ-crew. I can't believe you guys made 
ing papers and web access from it through 28 hours of me in the car. your room or anywhere. 2 yrs old. Justin, PatricK and Krupa, you have $550. call matt @273-9795. the stamina of wildebeests. 
Love, Heather Mac 
guitar effects processor. Boss ME­8; heralded as best midpriced or la vacca. 
effects board. chorus, dist, rev, wha, harmonizer, and many other ?Que es eso? 

effects. great cond w/ case. $200. call matt at 273-9795 Puh-leese. it sure would be nice to 
be able to write an upside-down question mark.
PERSONAL 
Michelle, heard any good police Fax it fast at THE COPY SHOP in jokes lately? 
Lafortune. FAX Sending and Receiving: 631-FAX1 pink beads! 
Single white male seeks single Diane-Life always has a way of 
Work Abroad Program and find out! 
Call 1-888-Council and ask for ADOPT:Help us make our family Torn. complete.Let us give your newborn 
a lov1ng,happy home and a wonder-CANCUN, BAHAMAS ful future.Expenses paid.Please call PANAMA CITY Lucille and Michael 1 ·800-468· Get FREE PARTIES with USA 9311. Spring Break! 
Call 1-888-777-4642 to book your trip today! 
ILOST & FOUND I 
Missing... If anyone has found a Superman Necklace, please return to 317 Fisher. Reward Customer Service Rep for a major insurance company in South Bend. Excellent communication skills needed.Property/Casualty license preferred but willing to train 10 hrs/wk to become FT. Call John al (800)62 l-3698 ext 248. 

NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND 8,6,4,3,BEDROOM 2773097 
'99-'00 LOADED!6 Bedrm. $800 mo. 273-0482/234-3831 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 
5 & 6 BDRM HOMES. 1999/2000. SUMMER OR NOW.NEAR CAM­PUS.FURN.GILLIS PROPER­TIES .2726551 
HOUSE OR ROOMS AVAIL NOW.272-6551 
PLE FREE INFO 1-800-488-8828 WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM 
Room $275/mo in large house 2 miles from ND. 246-0704 
FOR SALE 
NEW Rates Phone Cards 282 min.$20 call 258-4805 
Beautiful brass bed.queen size.with orthopedic mattress set ancl deluxe frame.New,never used,still in plas­tic.$235 219-862-2082 
female for romantic walks on working out. Look at meE I6m still beaches. candle lit dinners for two, alive and I've had enough crises to romance, and a lot of laughs. last a billion lifetimes. 
Call 4-2200 Leaving for Vegas on Thursday. Plus, I'm home now. We can cud­Won't be back Iii Sunday. Leave die. J 
message on v-mail. Good luck Otter hockey!! It's time The hottest women of all, for a comeback in the playoffs. 
Walsh Hall 3 North. Hurry, please. we are really cold. HAPPY BIRTHDAY PAM SAWYER Happy Birthday, Bruce Springsteen! 
Cheers for 21st! Edna's first conscious decision to 
be her own woman occurs in chap-Need a Job? Student Activities is ter 11. accepting applications tor Sound 
Techs & Building Set Up Crew. Mike -I need you. 

r----------------------------------------------------------
Wnlncsday, February 17, 1999 The Ohserver • SPORTS 
¦ WOMEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Rutgers extends streak to six 
A.m,ciatcd Press St. John's, behind .lorirs 10 Tennessee jumpnd out to a 57­
points, got within 57-48 with 24 

NEW YOHK (l:12 remaining. halfl.imf• !find aft<::r lhrdng the 
Usha GihnorP scorml If, points Lady Tigers into 2:3 first.~half and No. 7 llutg1,rs hnal. SL No. 1 Tcmmss(W 11 :~. turnovers und allnwing them John's 72-!i!i Tunsday ni~ht for Memphis :~9 only 21 shots from the noor. it:-; sixth straight victory. Memphis only had three baskets 
Tammy S11!11>n-Brow11 and C:hamiqt1(1 lloldsclaw and 1,vcr tlrn final nine minutes of Tasha Poinll'l" Pach had 11 Tamika Catchings each scored the half. points as Hutgcrs (2:1-4. 15-1 23 points as No. I Tnn11osson The Lady Vols took a 50-point Big b1sll. lm•nznd lo a 11 3-:{9 victory ovf'r lend aft.or Kristen Cl11m,ints' 
Chrisli11a Jori!" had ;n points l\kmphis Tuesday night. layup put Tennessee ahead 7(>­:wd 11 rl'lin1111ds for 1h11 Herl Tnnnnssce (24-1 l usnd a suffo­26 with l (1: 15 rrnnaining. Storm (11-1<>. 6-10) llutgns cuting man-lo-man dnfc-nsn thal Ten11ess1rn maintaitrnd leads of' l!as won livn in a row against St. f'orcml Mnmphis (17-7) inlo 4h at least 60 points throughout .lohn's and ll'ads tlw sorins J<).J. turnovnrs, leading lo 63 Lady most of the second hair in 
Tlw scor,• was ti,•d at 20 wtwn Vols' points. Mmnphis only man­picking up tlmil· most lopsidPd lt11tgPrs went on a 17-2 run to aged Lo hit 15 shots llrn r,nlirc win of ttrn season. l'losn tlw iirst hair (;ilmorP. who ganw. Semeka Handal! had l 8 for madf' sl'v,m of' 14 shot~ !'or the Tim Lady Vols broke thn game Tennessee while Clement addPd ga11w. pilCf'd the spurt wit.Ii six open early as Tamika 15 and Michelle Snow had 14 points. Catd1i11gs's haskot seven min­points and 1 5 mhounds. 
l)avalyn <:11nni11glrnrn had utes into tlrn lirst half rappNI a Tamika Whitmorn, the tllni,, poit1ts as the Scarlet I6-0 run that gavn Tnn11ussne a 111ttion 's sccr1nd leading s1;orer h.nights opn1wd tlm s1•co11d half' 22-<, !,•ad. nvernging 25.8 points per game, with a '>-2 run to build thnir Lnd by Cutc:hings, who hit 7 of' lod Memphis with 20 points. liiggPst l1iad of llw gamn 4h-2(i. hnr 1 I first-half shots, )'olamia !{end acluod I I. 

Graduating college seniors arc invited to apply for the 26th annual Pulliam Journalism Fellowships. We will grant IO-week summer intem­.... hips to 20 journalism or lihcral mts majors in the August 1998-June 1999 
graduating clas:--cs. 
Pn:\ ious imernship or pa11-time experience at a newspaper is desired, or other demonstration or writing and rep011ing ability. Those who go 1hrough the Fellowships often find new professional oppo11unities open­in!,!. up al other newspapers during and after the program. Winners will receive a $5,250 stipend and will work at either The Indianapolis Star and The lnt!io11apo!is News or The Ari:mw Re1mhlic. Opportunities for online training are available. along with reporting c.,1x:rience at our major lllL'lropnlitan daily ne\vspapers. 
\II L'tllrics must be postmarked by March L 1999. Successful appli­1.·;111h ,, 111 he notified on or before April I ~md will be asked to respond 11111111•.-diately with a letter of intent, at which time one-third of the cash grant will he mailed to the Fellow. 
To request an application packet. visit our \\d1 ,ill'. l'·lllail us or write: 
Pulliam 1:,:llmvships Director 
The Indianapolis News 
W~b sate: www.stamcws.com/pjf PO. Box 145 E-mail: pulliam@lstamc"ws.com 
[ndianapolis. IN 46:206-0145 


.. ---,. 
csc 
C E N T E R F O R 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Experiental Learning Council "ELC" invites you to an information session on Thursday from 7:30 -8:15 at the CSC. 
We are looking for Strong leaders for 1999-2000 
~ALL ARE WELCOME~_ 
.. 

-


page 14 
¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASF.BALL 
-
Jeter wins arbitration, will earn five million 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Tim onlv tinw tlw New York YankPPS l;>se is whPn Lhcy takn on tlwir own playprs. 
''I'd be lying if I said it made no clifforPnre if vou win or lose." DPrek Jpter ;aid Tuesday aftpr bt'ating the World Series champions in salary arbitra­tion. 
Tlw All-Star shortstop bPr1urn1 the first player to win an arbitration case this year, and will get $5 million und11r tlw de1cision issuml by a three­man panel. The leam's of'fer was $3.2 million. 
"It's over wilh. It's the busi­
ness sido, the ugly part," Jeter 
said on his way to Newark 
Airport for a flight to spring 
training in Tampa, Fla. "If you 
play well on the fie Id. every­
thing will take care of itself." 
.Jeter, who made $750,000 last year, was f'ligib!P for arbi­tration for tho first time. He can IJPcomc a free agent after the 2001 season, but the Yankees haven't made any pro­posals for a long-term deal sinn'. Jeter reject<'d a $31 mil­lion. five-vear offer last year. 
.lf'ter dof'sn't expect New 
York to give him another multi­
vear offer. 
• "There's nothing they've donn that would havn us antici­patn it." he said. 
"The ball's in their court," said .lcter's agent, Casey Close. "It's an organization that has thP rrsources and the opportu­nity to do something special for a spPcial player. Tlrny've rolled thosP dice before and found out what happened with Bernie." 
BPrnic Williams had hc0-n Lim last Y1inker to go lo arbitration. winning his casn for a $3 mil­lion salary in 1996. Williams rnjl'ctPcl ·scv<'ral multiyrar 
Come andSee Why The Lights AreAlways On/ 
§~!m(ID(IDil @ifmlmfi~~mirure 
Open House 
Friday, Feb. 19, 1999 3:38-6:00 PM 
BoadHall 
Exhibition ofStudent & Faculty Work ­

Refres.lmtentsr· 

-
RICHARD GLAZIER pianist 
AAGTIME &ROMANCE: JOPLINAND GERSHWIN 
Tuesday, Feb. 23, 1999 • 7:30 p.m. 

For ticket information, contact the Saint Mary's box office (219) 284-4626 
offers that he deemed too low. went yf'a.r by year and became a frcr agent last fall. 
llH 11(-rnr!y signed with the Boston lled Sox, citing the way hP felt the Yankees had tr0atrd 
him, and stayed with New York only after owner George Steinhn'nno1-, in tho final hours of talks. increased his offer from $50 million over live years to $87.5 million owr snven. 
Close offered to settle before Monday's hearing at the mid­point of $4.1 million but the Yankees refused. After the sides exchanged arbitration numbers in January, the team offered $1.5 million. That turned out to be New York's final offer. 
"I don't think they were pre­pared to recognize the market Bernie went into," Close said, "or that Derek would be the type of player going into the market." 
Jeter, whose case was decid­ed by arbitrators Nicholas Zumas, Ira Jaffe and Gil Vernon. matched Ruben Sierra's 1992 salary with Texas as the second-highest ever awarded in arbitration. The only higher award is the $5.3 million pitcher Jack McDowell got from the Chicago White Sox in 1994 -when he lost his case. 
Jeter, 24, is eligible for free 
agency one year aft.er Seattle 
shortstop Alex Rodriguez 
becomes eligible, which could 
lead to a record deal. Close said 
Tuesday's decision changes the 
price. 
"Obviously this puts a new 
light on any future contract," 
he said. 
Jeter hit .324 last season with 
19 homers, 84 HB!s and 30 
steals. lie was fifth in the AL in 
batting average and first in 
runs with 127. 
Wednesday, Fehruary 17, 1999

The Observer• SPORTS 

onboard a virtually unchanged New York team with a new five-million-dollar contract. 

<;~ 

The Department c-f ~,,1~nagement 
Presents: 
Ron Burns 
Chairman Burns Capital Partners and Burns Management Inc. 
Former President and COO of Entergy Corp., President and CEO of Union Pacific Railroad, and Chairman and CEO of Enron Capital and Trade Resources 
"The 21st Century Leadership Shadow­Influence vs. Authority" 
Thursday, February 18th 
12:30 PM 
Jordan Auditorium -College of Business Administration 
Ron Burns is a private inve:;;tor and management con:;;ultant with primary focus in energy and emerging technologies. He is Chairman of Burns Capital Partners and Burns management Inc. he was previouely Pre5ident and COO of Entergy Corp., President and CEO of Union Pacific Railroad, and Chairman and CEO of Enron Capital and frade Resources -Enron Corporation's natural gas and electricity marketing. trading and finance subsidiary. Prior to that he held numerous senior management positions during a 21 year career with Enron Corp in Omaha and Houston. 
All Are Welcome To Attend! 
<~s-----------¦ 
L__ 

-ws "4" -· 


Wednesday, Pebruary 17, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page: 15 
solid rotation led by Chuck Arizona Diamondbacks. but in the span of four months. ly the Marlins, who have stock­rinlev and Ken Ilill, in addition acquired third basemen The AL East will not bo excit­piled their minor league sys­
Baseball 
to n pool of four other capable Caminiti via free agency. Their ing at all. Expect the Yankees tem. However, in the short­
-
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE DANCE WORKSHOP PRESENTS 

CING 


ON THE ~ 
NK<.\ 

New student works & perfonnance improvisation 
Fri.. Feb 19 at 8 p.m. • Sat., Feb. 20 at 8 p.m. • Sun .. Feb. 21 at 2:30 p.m. 
O'Laughlin Auditoriwn 

Tickets on sare'!'Pth~~n'!5::-~~.f~:~~~i!:~MgflfiiJin O'Laughlin Auditorium, open 9 a.m. · 5 p.m., ,oR THE ARrS Monday • Friday. ,.an,¦ .....,.,,,. 
Internship Information Meeting for 
ACCION 

micro-lending program in 
Albuquerque Chicago El Paso New York Citv San Alllonio San Die~o 
(for husiness students) 
and 

Hispanic and African American Leadership Progran1 
-
Hisp.1ni1.': Chicago San /)il'go So111h B1•11cl 
African American : So111/t Bc11d 

5:00 -6:00 PM Center for Social Concerns February 17, 1999 
Find out about these tuition scholarship, and academic credit programs ••-•II!!•
ct1--r•
ClNTtR ,oR 

Hear from students who have been there! s O c I A L
CONCERNS 

continued from page 20 
Pxciting mw. The AL Wflst is open for anyonn lo take, with 
llw /\ualwim /\ngols ll~ading tlw pack. With the acquisitions of Mo Vaughn and Tim Bclchnr. limy immediately lwconw till! f'ront-runners. Last ynar's division champion, the Texas Hangers. signed l'alnrnlro a ma_jnr upgrade f'rom llwir lirst uasm1wn of last yPar, Will Clark. Th11 addition will help Lhn Hangers, bul not as m11d1 as fklclrnr will frnlp till' Angnls. lklcher adds to a starters. The Rangers have competent starters. hut the /\ngols' startr.rs arc stronger across I.he board and that shuuld propnl them to the divi­sion crown. unless the Seattle Mariners havo anything to say about it. The Mariners are the most unpredictable foam in basnball right now, blessed with Ken Griffey and /\lex Hndrigtwz, arguably the two best players in basnball. 
The NL Central is equally intnresting. Tlrn Houston Aslros, last ym1.r's champion, lost Handy Johnson to the pitching is stronger than the rest of the division, and they are the likely favorites. The St. Louis Cardinals cannot be counted out, though, not with an offense led by Mark McGwirc, J.D. Drew. Ray Lankford, and Eric Davis and a pitching staff that. when healthy, is tho fourth best in the NL behind the Atlanta Braves, New York Mets, and the Astros. The Cubbies cannot be counted out. either. /\nd the Heds, arguably the most improved team in the off-sea­son, have become contenders to run away with the division early. The Toronto Blue Jays will give them their only signif­icant challenge, and should challenge either Anaheim or Texas and the Chicago White Sox for the wild card (that is, assuming thoy keep Clemens). The Red Sox arc onP. Mo Vaughn short of contention and the Baltimore Orioles are just plain bad. Acquiring Albert Belle was a good move -it will allow him to hit another 50 home runs on a sub-.500 team. The Tampa Bay Devil Rays record could conceivably be 

better than both the Orioles and Red Sox. 
The NL East will at least be a two-team race. Expect the Atlanta Braves to ultimately hold the Now York Mets off, despite th1~ fact that the Mets are solid at every position and have good pitching. Expect the Mots to get the NL Wild Card. if they can hold off St. Louis, Cincinnati, the Cubbios, and the Colorado Hockies. The Philadelphia Phillies keep improving and will be chal­lenging for the playoffs in a couple of years. The samn could be said of' the Expos and the Flordia Marlins; particular-term, expoct about 70 wins apiece. 
No one will hit 70 homn runs. ThosH who might challenge 60 include Belh-i, Griffey, McGwire. Mike Piazza, and Sammy Sosa. The AL MVP will bo Griffey and the NL MVP will be Houston's Jeff Bagwell, even though Montreal's Vladimir Guorrero will have a bettor year if he picks up wlrnre he left off last season. I like Clomcms or Mikn Mussina for tho AL Cy Young and John Smoltz or Brown l'or thn NL Cy Young. 
All in all, it should bo an exciting ynar. No, it won't havP tho samn record-setting impli­cations as last year, bul it should l'naturn plnnty of' things to knnp hringing fans to tho park. Last year reestablished basoball after yc~ars of' lost pop­ularity lo football, baskntball, and hockPy. Tho sport is back and has many young stars likn Hodrigunz, Drnw, and Cuprrnro to mako sum that it stays 011 top. In fact. tlw only pr<.Jblnrn with tlw gamn may ho how long l'ans can knnp coming to thn ballpark wlrnn somPnnn who plays cwcry lillh day is making $15 million pnr ynar. 
u w

,---·-... .... 
t 
' page 16 The Observer• SPORTS Wednesday, February 17, 1999 

¦ BENGAL BOUTS 
Newcommers q----tt~~ 
.il~,:··· ··. : __.::,~-\-i,·/·--,·.. 
to pickup pun 

By KERRY SMITH "Getting in the 
­Spores Writer riµ~ ~t~:1JJ;>pe~ · h(;ipsjqpilllpr.qv For the members ofthe Notte · rrHi.n'@f.iHf P6nki __ . n·yoti 
Dame men's boxing club, daily spatwith sc:frn.eon,e at your physical training and mental same level, he doesn't know preparation is necessary to get that much moretHanyou do, ready for Bengal Bouts. but the upp(lr{}l~&srnen can 
And for newcomers to the . teµ,cb,, YOJl a. lqt, · hat you sport, that preparation can be needtbkriow":~; ··0 even more intense. In order to TM dub has hari~d together get ready for competition, first-as a ieam, making ifeasier for time boxers must be in top new members ofthli squad to physical shape and master the adjust to the rlg()r.ous work-fundamentals of boxing first. outs._ The co."'c d -~aptaius 
Most first~year boxers com-have played__ 'rofoJ11 peting in next· week's Bengal making fitst~ye!ar . xers Wel~ Bouts joined the boxing club come in the club.. last fall during the men's "I felt encouraged to join in novice season. The novice sea-the fall and was really made to son teaches beginners the basic be part of the team," said strategies and techniques of the rrnsl1man Juan Santucci. sport. "Everyone helps<.ea'ch other as 
"The novice season really you train and spatwith your helped and gave me a head teammates during the season. start." said freshman Chris Only in the Bengal Bouts do Matassa. "It was good to have your teammates become your that experience coming into the rivals." veteran season.'' Training for theJfonga}Bouts 
Not all first-time boxers par-requil,'es i~rge a;moµpts-0fd,edi, ticipate in the novice program, cation and hard work. as somn boxers joined the club "It's definitely something to as late as January. The veteran be proud of," said junior and season, beginning at the start first-year competitor Luke of the second semester, brings Brennan. "You know you're together novice and experi-worl<ihg like er · buLatthe enced boxers and involves -same tirneyou'f 11allytais'­more sparring and practice in ing a fot of mone)'for the peo­the ring. ple of Bangladesh.'' · 
"The veteran seasons picks Most of the first-time Bengal up pretty fast,~ said newcomer Bcmt mpetitors)u;e npt overly Bobby Kennedy. "They go over n s about -----m.i11g 
technique a.nd fund enta1s rightaway so every srat< pretty much the same pointby the third week." 
The experience of returning club members in the veteran. season helps first-ye~ boxers improve their skills imthe ___ They provide. the tn~tl~Jst _ boxers with less sparring expe­rience. 

QUICKC'AB 
233-6000 
"Ride Safe, Save Money!!!" 

• 
ND11••Michiana Regional Airport r ---'7" -----, One Person $8, I I More than I, $5 each : : 

• 
NDu••Downtown Area 


One Person $5, ~ : 
I I

More than I, $2 each 
I I 

• ND11-+South Bend Restaurants II 
_____ I 

One Person $5, 
I 33-6000 I

More than I, $2 each 


LASALLE BOOKSTORE 
Your source for the best new theological and philosophical books-we can special order any book you need!
-
Winter Clearance Sale! 

20-50% OFF MANY TITLES 
FEBRUARY 15-19. 

THE IASALLE BOOKSTORE • 234-0003 237 N. Michigan St. (at LaSalle), downtown S.B. Open 10-5, Mon -Fri., lasalle@michiana.org 
W@UJfl.Ei @1-RAIIDIE 


At Davisson you get the help you need to get your work done. 
Davisson Cluster 2nd Floor O'Shag 

~ ---------WHY NOTIIII 
1 Previous job: Internist 
• · Favorite team: Chicago White Sox 
I 

Resume item: Notre Dame Glee Club
I 
I 

"It was the right medicine for me.
I 

ANSWER THE CALL--today!"
I --Fr. Jim Foster, M.D., C.S.C., '77, '94
I 
I 


For more information on
I 

Holy Cross' one-year
I 

Candidate Program
I 

contact:
I 

Fr. Jim King, C.S.C. or
I 

Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C.
I 

1-6385
I 

vocation. l@nd.edu
I 

• ~ ---_.. FOLLOW HIM....? 
checkout 1HEPLUNGE atwww.nd.edu/~vcx:ntion 

Heard Any Good Rumors Lately? 
We've got one: "Turtle Creek is full for the 99-00 school year!" 
We have been receiving lots of phone calls from students who have heard that we are no longer accepting applications for the upcoming school year. We want to let everyone know 
TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS IS STILL ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR ALL STYLES OF APARTMENTS AND TOWNHOMES FOR THE 99-00 SCHOOL YEAR. 
So stop by the-leasing office today and pick up your information and application packet before the rumor becomes reality! 
TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
"THE STUDENTS FIRST CHOICE IN OFF CAMPUS HOUSING" 
272-8184 
. ­
Wednesday, February 17, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 17 
¦ ROWING 
Irish gauge final tuneup before getting their feet wet 
By MATT OLIVA others in the 1999 Indiana The competition was divided Spom Wrir~r Indoor !lowing Championships into four categories. The light­held in Elkhart, Ind., competing weight and open-w•iight novice This past weekend, nrnrnbnrs against representatives from categories were for team mem­of lhP Notr«i Dame women's Purdue, Grand Valley State, bers participating in their first rnwing t1!a111 eanwd a first in Bowling Green and season on a varsity rowing two c,v,•nts and a sm:ond in two Northwestern universities. team, and varsity lightweight 
'
0 

Come Join the Tradition Applications are now being accepted for n1a positions for the 1999-2000 academic.s..c 
You may pick up applications aft Office of Student Activities · 315 Lafortune 
Deadline: February 26, 
and open-weight were for the experienced team members. Participants competed on row­ing machines for a distance of 2,000 meters. The comp11tition allows head coach Martin Stone to evaluate his team as they near the end of wintf'lr training. 
"Our primary goal for the weekend was for everyone to get their personal best on the rowing machines," said Stone. "I think that we were successful as the majority of' our team recorded their pt1rsonal records." 
In the varsity open weight division senior captain Katie Fox took second place with a time of' 7:16. In the novice divi­sion. frcshmfln Erin Do\vd won the lightweight competition with a time of 7:22.1 and fresh­men Michelle Olsgard won tlw open-weight comp!1tition with a time of7:16. 
Training started in Urn rail for the Irish, as they competed in meets with a three-mile coursri. The fall season ended in November and, sincr, then, the team has been involved in a winter-training program in 
M.B-ball 
continued from page 20 
heading into the Notre Dame game with a bye in the Big East Tournament on the line. 
If thc Irish are to get over that magic mark of .500, they'll need a win tonight or a victory over the Red Storm along with homr1 wins over West Virginia and Hoston College. 
While Murphy has shown no signs of slowing down fellow freshman David Graves has slipped a bit in roCfmt weeks. 
The forward's production has droppt~d from 15 points to l 2.2 a game. Skylard Owens startod in Graves' spot Sunday in an effort lo get Graves going again. Graves played 21 minutes and scored six points. 
Murphy failed to win the Big East Bookie of tlrn Week despiW scoring 47 points in two losing causes. St. .John's Erick Barkoly took this week's titln as thH l{NI which they 11ractiC(1 on the row­ing machines. 
This is the first season in which women's rowing is a var­sity sport at Notre Dame; prior to this season it was a club sport. 
The team's first season begins over spring brnak with a mnfll against Wisconsin and Duke in Oakridge, Tenn. During the regular season, the Irish will comp11te on a 2,000-mnter course and most of' llw m1Hits will bn dual nwnts. 
Tim results from the wPck­end, along with Urn condition­ing from winter training, lnavn Coach St.01rn fooling optimistic about the upcoming s1~ason. DnspiW tlw youth and innxpnri­rmco ol' tlw team. he foels that Limy cun bt! sur.cessl'ul. Tim tnam has a tough schndulc1, ,. consisting mainly of Big Tnn and rngional L1ia111s, including meets against Michigan and Ohio Stat!' who haV!1 presnason rankings of third and fifth, respectively. Thc1 Irish will also participate in Lim Ct1orgntown Invitational against thn Big East Schools. 
Storm WPnt 2-0 and he scornd 26 poinl'i. 
Senior Antoni Wychn returns to his home stat<' of N,1w York. Wyclw has bncn solid latoly av~raging just undnr 12 points a ganrn. 
HECHUITING UPDATE 
Irish recruit Mike Muns1wnz is enjoying a stellar senior season for Moeller lligh School in Cincinnati. 
Tim (i-foot-6 guard 11vnrag1•s 21 points and 11ight assists a game leading Moeller tu a 11-6 record this season. 
Last week Honrno /\11gusli1rn becamti MacLnod's third com­mitnrnnt to play l'or the Irish next season. Augustine is a (1­f'oot-6, 195-pound swingman and is from Montrnal. lie is avP.raging 21 points, I 0 rebounds, four assists and thrl'P steals a game at llayl'n lligh School. Connnctif'llt, Providt'll('f' and West Virginia also showPd inwrnst in /\ugustirw. 


-
Undergrads + Graduate Students 
+ 
Fulfill a general education requirement 

+ 
Accelerate progress towards your degree or minor 

+ 
Live on campus-in the beautiful San Francisco Bay Area 

+ 
Over 200 classes offered in more than 50 departments 


·­
Course:; in: Physics, Ecooomics, Intensive Lany,ua~ Chemistry, Enginemng. Biology, Music, Computer Science, History, Art, Cla&>ics, Athletics, kcounling, Psychology, Political Science, Antl}ropology, and Communication. 
St.mford Summer Session For aFREE catalogue, send your: Building 590 
Name 

Stanford,CA 94305-3005 
Addres!\ 

(650) 723-3109 
City, ST

(650) 725-6080 Fax 
ZIP

Email: summer~@swiord.edu 
UI02l25 

Web:~ Circle: Undergrad Grad 
-
page 18 The Observer• SPORTS Wednesday, February 17, 1999 
¦ BENGAL Boun; 
Women's Boxing gives Begal Bouts a one-two punch 
KEVIN THOMPSON ing to campus she realized Sporrs Wrirer there was no outlet for women's boxing. 
A search for "Rengal Bouts" So she did something about on the Notre Dame web page it. After she spent the fall will yield 63 results, ranging training with the men's club, from articles on "Nappy" Catrow established the club Napolitano to the Bangladesh for women in the spring, pro­missions. viding a place for females to 
What's not there, however, train and fight competitivPly is the name of Aimee Catrow while enriching themselves or the Notre Dame Women's and the lives of' others. 
Boxing Club. The first season saw 55 
Catrow founded the club women turn out to fight. The during her sophomorn year numbers increased dramati­after spending the summer cally in the next two years studying men's boxing at a and the club currently stands California gym. Upon return-at 90 members. 
BLACK HISTORY MONTH FILM SERIES 
By African & African-American Studies Program & Biko­Stewart & The Center For Social Concerns 
The screening of the film 

"BEHIND THESE WALLS: MUMIA ABU-JAMAL LONG STRUGGLE FOR FREEDOM" 
scheduled for Wed. Feb. 17, 1999 at 7:00 PM in 141 Debartolo Hall will be followed at 8:15 PM
. 
by a panel discussion on 

"THE US JUSTICE SYSTEM: THE DEATH PENALTY IN QUESTION" 
featuring: 

1. 
Prof. Peter Walshe, Government Department, Chair; 

2. 
Prof. Fernand Dutile, Associate Dean, Law School; 

3. 
Prof. Jay Tidmarsh, Law School; 

4. 
Prof. Richard Pierce, History Department; 

5. 
Prof. Patrick Mason, Director, African and African-American Studies Program; 

6. 
Paul Simo, LLM Program, Center for Civil and Human Rights. 


Despite a considerable num­own, we still try to do every­boxing program in the coun­ber of female boxers, the thing we can to help." try, and with its increasing Notre Dame community is rel­Catrow knows the mission numbers, the future looks atively unfamiliar with the or tho women's boxing pro­bright. women's program. The gram is not to compete for With the increased partic­women go through a rigorous publicity but to form a part­ipation in women's boxing on fitness regiment in the fall nership with the men's pro­campus, the names "Catrow" and prepare for an intra-dub gram. and "l\iD Women's Boxing" tournament in the spring. "We realize the reason tho should be rcmemberud in the 
In addition to the spring women ·s program is here is storied tradition of B1rngal competition, the women play because ol' what the men Bouts. a vital role in Bengal Bouts. started" Catrow explained. 
The women do their part "They have built a great tra­through fundraisers. In the dition of helping others fall, the women's boxing pro­through sport and we want to gram held their annual Power continue what they started." Hour. in which the women Someday, Catrow envisions spent two hours doing a Women's Bengal Bouts. pushups, sit-ups and laps to Whether it occurs in five, 10 raise money for the or 15 years is the only ques­Bangladesh missions. tion. for Catrow belinves thn 
While the Boxing Club public does not y,it fully· instructs women fighters, appreciate the athleticism of Catrow sees the deeper mean­female boxers. Until it docs. ing to boxing at '.'lotre Dame. she said, we will not see a 
"Boxing at Notre Dame was women's tournament. founded to help out others," Catrow is happy with the Catrow said. "We use our state of women's boxing at bodies to enrich the lives of Notre Dame, however. The others. While we may not program is currently the have a tournament of our largest women's collegiate 
¦ SPORTS BREIFS 
WOMEN'S RUNNING 
CLlJB -For all those who prefer companions to the treadmill, the Women's Running Club is open to runners of any level at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. They ate intent upon enjoy­ing their workouts as they explore running routes around ND, Saint Mary's and in South Bend. Call Rene at 4•2710 or Jenny at 4-2914 with questions. 


A great-tasting deal that's easy to get hooked on. 
The delicious BK BIG FISH)> Value Meal. A crispy fish filet topped with fresh lettuce and tangy tartar sauce plus medium fries and medium drink. 
$3.59 
The Huddle -Lafortune Student Center 
BURGER 
KING , Itjust tastes ' better. 
©1998 Burger King Corporation. Burger King Corporation is the exclusive licensee of the registered BK BIG FISH and Bun Halves logo trademarks. 






The Observer• TODAY page 19 
-----------------------------------------------------''--''-­
I.OOKINC. T! !ROUGH THE WIZARD OF ND DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
~ ~ ~ 
FOXTROT 


BILL AMEND 
DILBERT 


r'f"\ GOtNG TO ,EACH 
MORON$ HOW TO GU 
HIGH-LEVEL J"Ol35. 

CROSSWORD  
ACROSS  33 Bar order  65 TV exec Arledge  
1 Add-ons s Firefighter Red 10Sheik­Abdel Rahman 14 Outdoor party  3612 points 38 Award bestowed by Queen Eliz. 39 Mush room? 42 Rocky crag 43 Surf sound  66 Umbrian tourist town 67 Sensible 68 Tie up &9"... --open lire"  
15 Mimi's thanks 1& Meteorological effect  44 Large's opposite 45 Letters at Camp Lejeune  DOWN  
nPumpkin?  47 Some forensic  1 Composer  
20American  evidence  knighted in 1904  
charge  48 Priest of  2 Pulitzer-winning  
21 Zoo creatures  I Samuel  author Alison  
22 Fix, asa  49 Having handles  3 Scot with a lot  
voIceover  52 Not tarry to  4 Kind of acid  
23 No-goodnik 26 Yank's foe  marry 56 Accelerate  s Marc Antony's love  
28 Mediums for announce­ 59 Colts may be found here  6 Star in Cygnus 7 "You -­here"  
ments. in brief 29 "Gandhi," for  &1 Car rot? 64 Wedlock, so to  aSuffix with electron  
one  speak  9 Marksman's aid  
--------------• 10 Woofer measure ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 Injure


12 "ltwas-­c-,--,--,-,-, mistake!" 
13 Rogers and =+=-=-+:::+=:.-i others 

C A S 
~--'-t='T=-t-".T:"1 18 Office gizmo

SWA 
19 Math. course 24 Political power

GA A 
structure

E A T 
-=+'--1-'~"-I 25 "Pore Jud Is 
... 
("Oklahoma!" song) 27 Bullfighting, e.g. 

f-=-1-'-'--RRi=+-"'-f-"-~.=+.c--+=+-+"--30 --Sci "-'-+~-+''-I 31 "Yeah, right!" A M A 32 Turn over D A Y 33 Queue after Q 
SCOTT ADAMS 

NOW TURN YOUR E.AR, CLOCKWISE. TO 
GET YOUR TONGUE 

Puzzle by Sam Bellotto Jr. 
34 "Iliad" and "Odyssey," e.g. 35 Spread 37 Undying 40 Children's caretaker 41 Kind of heel 
46 0. Henry award winner for "Shut a Final Door" 
50 Kernel 51 Brings home 53 Part of "the 
works" 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS 
flAY: Bill\ ldnl, G. G"rdcm I idd1. 
~1.rndl' PJt111kin, Dick Clark 
llappy llirll1day: You've ~"I the lo,lk th.is )'L',lf thJt wiU knock !hl•m ,,ff th"-1it ft.'t•L Ynur ff,nfid1.mce i~ buitding .,nd ~•.,1u're r1.•ady to take on the world It's tilnl' to pu~h your ideas ,llhi locus on ,1ll your 11spirati_on$. l)c n'I hold bad no,,•; the bcsl is )'<'I lo l·11nw .u1d you \.\\lnl k\ make ~Url, th;.it \1 ou makt' thl" most nf it. Your 1111mb,•rs; lb, 19, 31, 33, 37, 47 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You'll ,lu well if you're prcpart'd. \'nu won't b~ lupp)' if family members ,,re not pulling tlwir weight. Organize your day well to avoid setbacks that mar c.ius,,, li'mp<.'r tantrums. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 201: It's bc>st lo work at home, clearing up .,,•erdue pnlJects TI1e n>lief that rou'll 1<el when all is complete will be worth the efforl you put into it. Once done, you can lorge ahead. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Opporlun1lies lo pamper yourself may untold. Don't tum down offers that 111dudL• sports activities or chil­dren. You ran make extra cash if you .,ct on d hunch. 0000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Be J1plrnnatic when dealing with (>thers .1nd vvu'll spare your~lf a lot of gnef. Mak~ sure thal ,terns that you pur­i:has~ 1,,day arc returnable. Take care vi .n.1ur own nc~ds; you deserve it. 
00 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Consider ph..-a:,,LlrL' trip~ or cntertainm~nt that will '"'\uir,· energy. lt's nut the best Jay tu 1ang out with CC'M'\'llrkers if ,·l ,u \\'1sh to c1void probl('m:-i at 11 later 
date 00000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): It's bes! lo tuck your money away where no one, including-you, will be ,1ble to touch 11 Financial deals may appear 
good, but you should bidL~ your tinw and k,-..•p looking 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Be gen tie with loved on.,s. They may be dif· firult to deal with. You must rid yoar­self of everything nld and no longer usable Use your diplomacy to get your point acro.s.<. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 2ll: You've got some great ideas and you need It> be a little secretive about them. Work hard at development and you'll receive rewards for your hard work at a la1er date. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You need an outlet. Things have been moving so quickly that you should do something physical to release your tension. Pamper yourself a little, as 
well.00000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
Don't let your emotions interfere with your professional integrity Someone you care about rnay let you down or criticize you. Be prepared instead of disappointed 00 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You may find yourself in the midst of a pretty good deal. Don't give up whal you have until you .can be certain just what it is you're getting. 0000 
PISCES (Feb, 19-March 20): Get into a fitness program. You'll get the results you're looking for if )'0u're serious about your goals. If you work in coniunction with someone else, you may find them trying to steal your thunder. 000 

¦ OF INTEREST 
Holy Cross Associ.ates is now accepting applications for the 1999-2000 program year. HCA is also sponsor­ing a J?iscernment Evening on Sunday, Feb. 21 from 5­8pCtq;'htth~ Catholic Worker House. For more info, or 
' to RSVP for Sunday, call Jon at 1.-5521. Jobs You Can Be Proud Of -The Public Interest Research Group is interviewing qualified seniors for exciting and challenging jobs in the non-profit, social change field. Information session Wodnnsday at 8 p,m. in the CSC. Interviews Thursday. Dynamic Interviewing Workshop -The single most imp()rtant pa.rt of th,, employment process is the inter­view, 'fhis workshop will cover types of' questions typi­cally asked, behavioral interviewing techniques, verbal and non-verbal behaviors, and intflrviewing do's and don'ts. The Dynamic Interviewing workshop will bn held Wednesday, Feb. 17 in room 116 DeBartolo from 3-4:30 p.m. William Mahoney of tho World Bank will lecture on Globalization and Economic Growth in Latin America today in C-103 in the Hesburgh Center for International Studios. 
Wanted: Reporters and photographers. Join The Observer staff . 
-•-­
54 Cuddly carnival prize ss Ex-Laker Baylor 
56 Fashionable store since 1902 
57 Florida catch 
58007'salma mater 
60 Is penitent &2 Golden, in France 
63 "That means --!" 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS 


Make checks payable to: The Observer
The Observer 

and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year
is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
0 Enclosed is $45 for one semester
Community. Name _____________________ 
.Join the more than 13,000 readers who have 
Address ___________________
found The Observer an inclispensible link to the City _______ State ____ Zip______
two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
-

¦ Rowing team gets ¦ With the start of last 'dry' tryout before Bengal Bouts next -the start of the spring Monday, the women 
season. and novice boxing dubs prepare for the show.
PORTS 
rHE 

page 20 0 BSERVER ----------------Wednesday, February 17, 1999 



Syracuse, Irish look to rebound from losses 
By BRIAN KESSLER Assistant Sports Editor 
After a 77-57 loss to Rutgers last Saturday, tlrn ninth-ranked Notre Dame women's basketball t(rnm looks to move on when they takP on· Syracuse tonight at the Joyce Center. 
"We're anxious to get hack out there," junior point guard Nicle Ivey said. "We need to stay focused, because we know that any team can come out and beat us. 
"Mentally, we were never in that game [at Rutgers]," Ivey continued. "They battled and we didn't battle back. We weren't aggressive enough and we were out of it from the opening tap." 
The loss to Rutgers snapped the Irish ·s 11-game winning streak, but head coach Muffet McGraw's squad realizes the importance or the three regu­lar-season games remaining. 
"The team is just focusing on moving on," said Ivey, who is second in the conference in assists and steals per game. "We know that each game is crucial with the conference tournament coming up, so we need to be mentally focused." 
Syrar.usr is also coming off of a diflicult confer­ence loss. On Saturday, the Orangewomen saw their two-game win streak broken when they fell to SL John's, 77-72. Paula Moore recorded her seventh double-double of the season (19 points, 12 rebounds), while Beth Record came off the bench to score 18. 
The Irish have won eight straight over the Orangwomen, including a 94-61 victory earlier this year. Notre Dame's defense shut down Moore, the conference's second-leading scorer ( 1 7. (1 points per game). holding her to just eight points on 2-of-12 shooting. Ruth Riley clearly dominatPd that matchup, as she scored 20 points and pulled down seven boards in just 22 minutes of play. Sheila McMillen had 23 points in that game, whiln Ivey added 19 and dished out eight assits. 
Ivey is looking to have a similar performance in tonight's matchup. 
"I feel like I have a lot of responsibility to lead the team each game," Ivey said. "I need to make sum we're focused out there and that we get the 
-----------s-ee-==w=.-=B--B=-A--c-::-L-::--L-c/:-p-a-ge--,-1-=--2 
ByJOEYCAVATO 
Associate Sports Editor 
Tic-toe. Tic-toe. 

That's the sound of time run­ning out for the men's basket­ball team. 
John Macleod and his squad limp into Syracuse trying to break out of a funk that has come at the wrong time. The team's record has slippr.d to 12­13 and 6-8 in the conference. 
._ 
The Irish need to be at or above .500 to have the possiblity of playing after the Big East Tournanrnnt. 
Tim Irish squamlered a 12­point halftimr lcad over Gcorgotown a week ago at the Joyce Center. Sunday thfly came back from 19 points down to West Virginia just to let another one slip througl1 thrir lingrrs. 
Now they go to the Carrier Dome to take on the 19th­rankPd SyracusP Orangrncn. 
The good news for the Irish is Syracuse (17 -8, 8-7) is just 2-5 at home in the confernncc, the bad news is they hold their opponents to 37 percent shoot­ing· from the field and the Orangemen spanked the Irish at the Joyce Center 75-63 in late December. 
Jason Hart, Ryan Blackwell and Etan Thomas lead the Orangemen as they all average in double figures. 
MacLeod will again look for freshman Troy Murphy to carry the load. The power forward is coming off a career high 32­point performance at West Virginia. Murphy now averages 1<J .1 points and 9.7 rebounds a game. 
With only four regular-season games remaining tonight's con­test takes on the importance and perhaps the label of a "must win." 
Aftrr tonight's gamP thP Irish will host West Virginia on Sunday before traveling to St. .John's. ThP Red Storm are in tlw top 10 and will probably be 
see M.B-BALL / page 17 


-ft. 
Leading the Irish in scoring in the 94-61 win aQainst the Orangewomen earlier this season, senior captain Sheila McMillen will have to again lead her team to the basket and the win. 
¦ MEr\J'S BASKETBALL 
Irish head to 'Cuse 
with clock running out 
¦ WAv Our tN LEFT F1EL0 
Preseason scorecard for baseball's best 
By JOHN COPPOLELI.A 
Sports Columnist 
The r:incinnati Reds 
reported to spring training 
Tuesday and within a week 
the remaining 29 teams in 
Major League Baseball will 
have reported to spring 
training. It seems like just 
yesterday that the New York 
Yankees were obliterating 
the rest or major league 
baseball, but spring training 
is upon us and a new season 
is not far behind. 
So, what will this new sea• 
son bring? If nothing else it 
will bring change. Kevin 
Brown, Randy Johnson, 
Albert Bello, Mo Vaughn, 
Hafael Palmeiro.and Hoberto 
Alomar all changed hiams 
and Roger Clemens may yet 
be traded from the Toronto 
Blue Jays. The Heds 
revamped their team, 
acquiring Greg Vaughn and 
his 50 home runs in addition 
to Steve Avery, Michael 
Tucker and perennial All­
Star Denny Neagle. 
The balance of power has 
shifted in many divisions. 
the most prominent among 
them the National League 
West. The Los Angeles 
Dodgers, fresh off the acqui­
sition of Brown and the hir­
ing of new manager Davey 
Johnson, have become the 
favorites to win the division. 
Last year's winner and the 
National League representa­
tive in the World Series, the 
San Diego Padres, have been 
gutted. ln losing Brown, Ken · 
Caminiti, Steve Finley and 
Greg Vaughn the Padres 
have become a team that 
barely resembles last year's 
NL champion. 
The balance of power in 
baseball in general has also 
become a great issue. The 
discrepancy between large­
and small-market teams has 
widened, with Brown's $15 
million annual salary nearly 
doubling the Montreal 
Expos' entire payroll the 
most gross example of this 
imbalance. Because of this, 
divisions like the American 
League Central, with the 
Cleveland Indians all but 
guaranteed another division 
crown, are no longer com­
petitive. 
While the NL Wnst and AL 
Central may be decided issuus most of the league . remains wide open. The 
most interesting divisions to 
watch will be the AL West 
and NL Centntl. The Wild 
Card race in both leagues 
will be equally interesting, 
making the season another 
see BASEBALL / page J5


vs. Syracuse Women's Tennis 
at Michigan State 

Today, 7 p. m. (ff) at National T cam Indoor Tournament
SPORTS 

'·,-::;:;;:i, ~ Friday, 7 p.m. 
Thursday-Sunday ~ 
• 
Baseball
ATA 

at Syracuse Men's Tennis 
vs. James Madion 

Today, 7:30 p.m. vs. Northwestern 
-
(lil'1 at Miami, Fla. 
,51 
Saturday, I p.m. 
GLANCE 
Friday, 11 a.m. 










