
... 
From athlete to author 
Women's interhall football preview 
Notre /Jame alumnus Nicholas Sparks. a 
Want to know who your fanorite women's dorm 
Wednesday
bestselling author, returns lo campus lo sign 
is playing this weekf:nd? Look into the sports 
his new book and talk about life as a writer. 
section to look at this week's key matchups. 
OCTOBER 6, 
Scene . page 12-13 
Sports . page 18 
1999 
THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIII NO. 30 HTTP://OBSERVER.N D.EDU 

Malloy addresses faculty, sets new goals for Generations 
University's presidency in 1987. He also said Notre Dame

By TIM LOGAN 
These themes were Notre would continue its efforts to 

New,; Editor 
Dame's institutional self-defini­improve and expand its research tion, its distinction as a Catholic programs. 

In his annual address to the school, the unique nature of its "I don't think we can pull faculty Tuesday, University pres­residential community, the back." Im said. "Too many peo­ident Father Edward Malloy out­University's ple have lined several broad themes tradition of investnd too
7 feel very positive, 

affocting Notre Dame but dis­service and the much from cussed few specific goals or pro• importance of personally. about the t h e i r posals for the school's future. academic free­pro_qress we've made nisources." 
He called on the faculty to dom. Malloy noted
with regard to teaching."

work with his administration to Malloy spoke that, ·up to keep bringing Notre Dame closer to the faculty now. most to the elite of American universi­a b o u t Father Edward Malloy resnarch has ties. improvements been conduct-
University president

"We are closer to realizing our in the quality nd in the goal of being not only the preem­ofteaching, Colleges of inent Catholic university in the "I feel very positive, personal­Engineering and Science. 
world, but also a great Catholic ly, about the progress we've Funding dollars will be spread university," he said. 'Tm confi­made with regard to teaching," more evenly in the future, he dent we can do it together." he said. The University has said. The bulk of his speech reflect­added an average of 10 full-time The president also discussed ed on the themes he pledged to faculty positions each year since address when he took over the he took over. see MALLOY/page 4 

GSU looks to improve programs 
By CHRISTINE KRALY 
Am,ciacc New< Editor 
Maria Canalas is excited about computers and coupons. The Student Advantage card and the upcoming computer sale are a couple of programs the Graduate Student Union ((;SU) prnsidnnt is happy to snn progrnssing on campus. 
At last night's GSU meeting, Canalas t1pdated members on thn progress of initiatives such as the Advantage card and alumni relations. 
Thr\ Student Advantage card is a coupon card used by students nationwide that Canalas is trying to bring to campus. Slw had recently gotten approval from Joe Cassidy in Student Activities and anticipates the card's arrival 011 campus as early as FPbruary. Once graduate stu­dents gel use of the card, it C()Uld become available to undergraduates as well. 
"Wu'rn not doing much for tlw graduate students." said Chur.k Lennon, executive director of thn Alumni Association. 
Lnnno11 spoke to Union nrnmhPrs about developing lrntter tics between grad stu­dnnts and the Association. 
"!When you graduate!. you become one of my !many] bosses," Lennon said. "We try to involve graduate students, 
sec GSU/pagc 4 

SMC prof-student teams present research 
By KATIE MILLER 
News Writer 
Four student-professor pairs gathered Tuesday to discuss their experiences with the Student Independent Study And Research [SISTARJ programs as part of a Saint Mary's Pride Week Presentation. 
In order to participate in SISTAH, a student must approach a professor with whom she would be interested in spending a summer study­ing independently. If the pro­fessor agrees, the stu­dent spends the summer at Saint Mary's working alongside that pro­fessor in their cho­sen area of interest. 
"The SIS· TAR grant for summer work is an opporlunity to work independently and interdependently on building new knowledge and skills outside the class­room," said associale profes­sor Deborah McCarthy. 
The teams consisted of Deborah McCarthy and Anne Pangilinan from the ·depart• ment of chemistry and physics, associate professor Charles Peltier and Chengdong Liu from the department of mathematics, professor Ann Loux and Cara ford from the department of English, and associate profes­sor Max Westler and Emily Cardinali also from the 
department of English. 
"She learned to make a decision, follow a method and find a meaning," said McCarthy whose project with Pangilinan was based on "Studies of Antioxidants Produced for Use on Carbon/Carbon Composite Friction Materials." 
"I consider the SISTAR project very beneficial. Learning to teach yourself is· very useful, whether you are going into graduate school or the workforce," said Cheng-dong Liu whose SISTAR project, "Determi-nation of the Variables that are Significant to Student Retention at Saint Mary's College," focused on vari­
ables and statistics. 
F r o m t h e i r research. the Poitier-Liu part­
nership found charac­teristics that predict a stu­dent's retention based on her first semester GPA, importancfl of parents' opinion, if Saint Mary's was her first choice and ihe sizo of her high school. 

"It's nice to be on the same terms as 1\1111." said student Cara Ford. Her pro­ject, "Voices from the Avenue and Beyond: A Current Reader for Literary Non-Fiction," consisted of actually working with Loux to put together a text that will be used in a class next semes-tcr. In addition to enjoying her work with Loux, Ford felt as though SISTAR provided her with many benefits. 

"SISTAR was something I actually enjoyed doing, and it 
gave mo direction," said Ford. 
Emily Cardinali also enjoyed the freedom she experienced with the SISTAR program in 
see SISTAR/page 4 

25. 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Wednesday, October 6, 1999 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Father 


kno-ws best 
Everywhere I go, people are too busy. All over campus, there are papers to write, midterms to study for, prar:tices to make, and abolutely no time to do anything else -least of all to call the parents. Calling home is always something easily left until tomorrow. 
When tomorrow comes, so have a million other things with pressing deadlines, so our parents are put off for another time. We manage to complain about our work and our Jives to nearly everyone around us. and never get around to calling the people who would actu­

ally love to hear about it. Jeff Beam 
I suffered from this myself at the beginning of this year. J was home for only a week Cartoonist before I was to move back tu school, and had to cram errands at the last moment to get ready, I ran around my Kentucky home­town doing so many things I thought were so important. I barely had time to have lunch with my dad the day before I left. 
I showed up late at the restaurant where I was meeting him. joked with him for a few min­utes and wolfed down my plate, eager to get to my other errands. In the parking lot, I shook his hand, thanked him for taking me out to eat, and ran off on another important venture, promising to call once I got settled in at school. 
Two weeks later. I saw my dad in a hospital bed. and he was dying. 
My brother called just before the Michigan weekend and told me to come home to Louisville. A rare and violent virus had attacked my father's liver and was systematically destroying his organs. I had been joking with my dad about some stupid Monty Python skit the week before, and now he had less than 24 hours to live. As I drove south on 31, I fought tears, listened to the loudest music I had, and pressed harder and harder on the gas. 
While I passed Kokomo, still three hours from home, his blood pressure dropped 50 points, and he nearly died. As I passed Indianapolis. my stepmother was at his bedside, urging him to hang on long enough for me to say goodbye. Eventually I arrived at the hospital, but he was semi-conscious and agonizing over every breath. Only my faith tells me he knew his entire family was at his side when he finally gave in to the pain. 
Now I am back in South Bend, and my dad is buried beneath the Kentucky Bluegrass he grew up on. Now there is a stone above him that tells the world what a fantastic father he really was. Now there is no amount of class work or personal trouble that will keep me from talking to my mother or my brothers when I should. Our conversations have never been more frequent. more enjoyable or more needed. 
As you agonize in the library or at the com­puter lab, think of the last conversation you had with your parents. Now. imagine it was actually the last. 
Yes, your Core paper is important. Yes, that Biology midterm is going to ruin your grade if you bomb it. Yes, football weekends are full of the things that make going to Notre Dame so special, but don't you think your parents want to hear about all of it? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Ubseruer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Josh Bourgeois Julia Gillespie Kace Steer Graphics Sam Dcrhcimer Amy Crownover 
Sports Production 
Brian Kessler Lauren Berrigan 
Viewpoint Lab Tech 
Brian Hobbins Ernesto Lacayo 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday cxccpr during exam and vacarion periods. The Observer is a nu:mbcr of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


THIS WEEK IN SOUTH BEND 
Today  Thursday  
. "Annie Get Your Gun":  . Open Line Dancing:  
Round Barn Theater,  Svuth Bend Eagles Lodgfl,  
Nappanee. 2 p.m.  South 13end, 6 p.m. to  
. S. Ray Mill_er Auto  11 p.m.  
Museum: Elkhart.  . Spirit of the Dance:  
10 a.m. to 4 p.m.  ELCO Performing Arts  
Center, Elkhart, 8 p.m.  

Friday 
. 
The Sting: Battdl Community Center, Mishawaka, 8 p.m. 

. 
Haunted Scream Park: Niles, 7 p.m. to 11 p.m. EDT 


Saturday 
. Sue Witty: Borders Books and Music, Mishawaka, 8 p.m. 
. Haunted Scream Park: 
Niles, 7 p.m. to 11 p.m. EDT 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 


OUTSIDE THE DOME 

Arizona legislator maintains anti-co-ed stance 

TUCSON, Ariz. 
In the wake of the reaction to her recent controversial comments, Arizona Rep. Jean McGrath. R­Glendale, has not softened in her bfdief that co-ed dormitories are immoral. endorsing premarital sex and underage drinking and that some women's studies courses need to undergo a name change. 
"It doesn't take a rocket scientist to realize that it's wrong for the state to be paying for students to have a place to party and have sex," McGrath said Friday. 
The driving force behind McGrath's positions is her belief that state funding should be kept to a minimum. The thought of money 

being spent "supporting immoral · doesn't further their point."behavior," is her biggest concern, McGrath said the responses that "ton of e-mails" from University of Arizona students responding nega­tively to her comments at the Arizona Board of Regents meeting on Sept. 23. 
"They were very nasty, with a lot of name calling and vulgarity," McGrath said. "They were all just very immature, and it certainly has been positive and appreciative to her for speaking her mind. The majority of student responses came from UA students, McGrath said. 
"It's really the adult view of the world versus the student view or the world that has created the problem." she said. 
While McGrath would not reveal the names of the authors or the e­mails, she said they called her a "puppet head for right-wing propa­ganda, a rambling idiot." and said she is effectively destroying our soci­ety. 
"These students need to learn to disagree without being disagree­able," McGrath said. "Some students don't understand what I was saying. I don't want the Women's Studies !department! to be canceled. 1 just 

she said. want the course material to match
she has received from non-students . 
McGrath said she has received a 

Northwestern celebrates life 
EVANSTON, Ill. 

Every nook and cranny of The Rock was aglow Thursday night with burning candles after several hundred Northwestern students. faculty and commu­nity members held a vigil against violence. "A little bit of light dispels a lot of darkness," said Rabbi Dov Hillel Klein, director of the Tannenbaum Chabad House. The anti-violence vigil, sponsored by the Associated 
·Student Government and 10 student groups. was a response to the deaths this summer of five people with links to NU. Robert Russ. a former football player, and Ricky Byrdsong, a former basketball coach, were both shot to death. Jason Rynd and Beth Pancoe, both Speech juniors, died of leukemia. Matt Hartl. another former football player, was a victim of Hodgkin's dis­ease. "Tonight we are gathered here to celebrate the lives of members of the Northwestern community we lost over the summer." said ASG President Steve Spaulding. "No one at Northwestern has had a chance to come to terms with it in a public way and think about. It didn't seem right for Northwestern not to do anything." 
LOCAL WEATHER 

5 Day South Bend Forecast Accu Weather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
. 1·/.. 

Wednesday ~ 
Thursday ~t6.4i; Friday ~ 
'\' ,., ' 

Saturday ~--~as···­sunday ,ri~ · 6:"/' 
I ••, ''"\ •· ,...~,"'\r} ........,.,,­
(~5'•· \\" ­

9,Q,qp~Q!) ~u 
S/J0111e,s T·slorms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Press Graf)hicsNel 
the course title." 

Yale endowment hits $7 billion 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. 

The Yale Endowment has passed the $7 billion mark, according to figures released Monday by the Yale Investment Office. Although the year's return -at 12.2 percent -ranks nearly the lowest in the last half-decade, it was a better-than-average year in comparison to other universities' returns. In addition, the endowment has enjoyed an above-median 15 percent annualized invest­ment return over the last decade. Yale analysts stressed that an overview of the endowment since 1989 is more important than this year's figures in seclusion. Yale's 15 percent annualized return bested the median 13 percent returns of similar endowments, as calculated by the inde­pendent consulting firm of Cambridge Associates. Had Yale's investments followed the 13 percent rate, yester­day's endowment figure would be $1.2 billion lower. In addition to the ten-year overall upswing, this year's endowment performed well in terms of absolute dollars. earning $780 million. Although the percentage increase is less than that of last year, the endowment earnfld more than it spent and, also in light of Cambridge Associates figures, enjoyed above-median returns. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
40s 
---FRONTS, ......................


C 1999 AccuWeather, Inc. COi O WARM STATIONARY 
Preasure: 
v~'-',, 
.

® © . . D . @ E;J. V ~ 
High Low Showers Rain T-slorms Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via Assoctared Press 

Atlanta 81 52 Las Vegas 83 58 Portland 63 so 
Baltimore 58 39 Memphis 80 59 Sacramento 69 56 
Boston so 38 Milwaukee 58 50 St. Louis 77 57 
Chicago 64 49 New York 54 44 Tampa 89 64 
Houston 86 65 Philadelphia 55 42 Wash OC 58 44 
Wednesday, October 6, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

-==-:-::-::-::-::-::_ -:-================================================================================================ 
Pax Christi guest speaker urges students to protest SOA 
By MATT BUNDA 
News Writer 
John (;iulano. a gunst of Pax Christi, spokn to a group of' stu­d1!t1 ls and profnssors i11 lhn Cn1lnr l'or So('ial Concerns Tuesday night ahoul thn situa­Lion in El Salvador. 
"ArmPd guards block tlrn doors to tlw MclJonalds in El Salvmlor: if you go and ask I.he gas station attendant l'or llw kny to tho l"I\Slroom lw coeks a shotgun and hands you tlrn k,\y," said (;iulano. 
(iiulano is an nx-J1\suil who lives and works with tlw poor in l·:I Salvador aumnpli11g to rnbuild tlH'ir rommtmitiPs from the dev­astation of' Uw 12 year war that rug<id them through tlw 1980s. I In rncountnd sonrn horror sto­rillS for tlw group from lli.s cxpe­rimwc during tho conllict. 
"We wern all spray1HI with clwmicals, myself included. People arP dying l'rom cancrr who wen• sprayed and never diagnos11d," he said. In conjunc­tion wilh this pPrsonal dnstruc­tioll was Llw damaging and tar­nishing of llw land by bombing and dwmical warl'aro. 
lln spokn of tlw murder of 
Ir-
Oscar Homero, the Jesuit troops who fought on the ground later went on to drop bombs Archbishop who was murdered against the rebellion in El over their own villages as agents by the Salvadoran government, Salvador. for their government's military. and tlrn murchir of' four priests According to Giulano, he was The tactic of stealing children and two women at the Jesuit arrestPd several times during t.hn and retraining apparently Univorsily in El Salvador; he war and taken into government appears in the SOA handbook. knew and worked with the camps and hascs, in which he Giulano vehem1mtly called for priests and women and was saw American soldiers working a close to the SO/\, because, as working at the university at the for the Salvadoran government. he said, "I work with the moth­time of the murders. He said the government that ers of kids who have berm virtu­
lie described the climat<1 of the commilted horrific atrocities ally massacred by [SOA trained] time as social atmosphere wh(ln against the people of the country military." "Bo a patriot, kill a priest" was a in the name of "Even the common motto. population poorest 
This massacre of the clergy in reduction. woman in El
"Even the poorest woman
El Salvador brought Giulano to lie learned Salvador can thl1 country and began his work f r o m in El Salvador can talk talk about the thnre. As hu pointed out, "They J\n1Nican vet­about the School ofthe School of' the murdered the priosls, killed the erans ol' the Americas," he
Americas." 
nuns and the teachers and creat­Salvadoran said of tlrn ed a need for more help in El conflict that impact of the Salvador." the Pentagon John Giulano school on the 
(;iulano was previously work­has denied all country.
guest speaker
ing in the underground railroad knowledge of Focusing on in Mexico helping ferry Mexic.:ans U.S. involve-sweatshop and Salvadorans into the Uni.led ment and has labor, neo-lib­States. lie made friends with refused veterans' requests for eralism and the duty of Notre Salvadorans during this assign­bonelits due to them as war vet­Dame to alter the situation in ment and felt it necessary to erans. places like El Salvador, Giulano answer the call for help in El One of the more compelling called for a greater participation Salvador. anecdotes was his explanation of in Notre Dame's International Ile also spoke of tho effects of "disappeared" children in El Summer Service Learning 
U.S. involvnmont in the war, Salvador. Program, which is a CSC-spon­denouncing thn controversial "Childrnn don't disappear, they sornd program that snnds stu­School ol' lhe Americas [SOAI, as were stolen and they were sold dents to countrins like El well as calling attention to U.S. to adoption agencies or rn-indoc­Salvador for two months during 
trinated and retrained to tight the summer. 
against the guerilla movement "We accompany, we build 
from which they were taken," community, it is not service. Who 
Giulano said. He met children am I serving? I was served by
1999-2000 Season 
who were stolen from their free­the people," he said of his out­
Notre Dame Film.Television, 
dom-lighting parents and who look on service to the people in 
and Theatre Presents 
Hedda Gabler 
Keneally to discuss new book
by 
Henrik Ibsen 
... 
By ELLEN FITZGERALD News Writer 


Thomas Keneally, notable Australian writer and author of "Schindler's List," will visit campus today as a part of his
Directed by Siiri Scott 
nationwide Wednesday, October 6 7:30 p.m. 
book tour. Thursday, October 7 7:30 p.m. 
lie will Friday, October 8 7:30 p.m. 
give a Saturday, October 9 7:30 p.m. 
reading from his

Sunday October I 0 2:30 p.m. 


Playing at Washington Hall 
Reserved seats $9 Seniors $8 All Students $6 
1,ckei, are available a~ Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. L:~:~d=i~a=call 631-8128 
new book, "The Great Shame and 
t h e Kenneally Triumph of the Irish in the English-Speaking World," at 4 p.m. at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore and will also 


11r 
CIGNA 
A Bwines.r ll{Carini, 
Your accomplishments in school have everything to do with talent and deter­mination. At CIGNA, we invite you to apply those same qualities at one of the top global employee benefits and financial services companies. 
We're looking for bright, career-minded undergrads and graduates from aU major fields of concentration to enjoy ample challenges and rewards. We focus on developing our future leaders from the start with skills, support and challenging opportunities. So, you can explore various jobs, areas of interest, and make key contributions right away while charting your own career_ There's more. We offer a variety oi benefits and a strong work-life balance culture. That's µrobably why we con­tinue to earn high marks from some of America's "best places to work" surveys. 
Stop by our upcoming information 
session and learn more about CIGNA's 
"Business of Caring" brand. 
Are You the One?  
Date:  October 13, 1999  
Time: Place:  6:00 pm ­8:00 pm Stadium Room, University Club  

Visit 11, 011 tb, Web: www.dgna.com/worldng/tollege 
wa·re an equaJ opportunity iemploYer. M/F ,DIV "CIGNA" refers 10 CIGNA Corporation and/or 0110 or more of its subsidiaries. Most employees are. ernployeu 1.>v su:::s.i.:!::J.ries of CIG:-~A Co, µoration, which provide insurance and related products. 
give a public lecture at 8 p.m. He invited Keneally because in the Hesburgh Library audi­"it seemed that it was a fasci­torium. nating topic to have come to 
"The Great Shame" is an Notre Dame because of all the account of 80 years of Irish connections between Ireland. despora in the English speak­Australia and the United ing world. This book explores, States." through spe-Keneally cific individu-also was als, the expe­interested
"[The Great Shamel tracks
rience of per­in making secuted Irish the long journey and N o t r e in the 19th experience ofthe Irish in Dame a 
century. stop on his
Australia.,,
Some of the book tour individuals because of who are Father Bill Miscamble these same tracked in connec­
history professor
"The Great Shame" are even relatives of Keneally. 

According to Father Bill Miscamblc, a Notre Dame his­tory professor, "this book tracks the long journey and experience of the Irish in Australia. It also follows a number of them who either escaped from Australia or left Australia after their complet­ed prison terms." This book chronicles how the Irish broke free of the past. 
Miscamble was key in Kcneally's visit to Notre Dame. 
El Salvador. 
"The problf)m is hem (in the U_S.) -don't buy the stuff'," Giulano said of his solution to swm1tshop labor. However, his lecture provided a compl<ix explanation for Hw proliforation of sweatshop labor and its effects on the Salvadoran economy. As he pointed out, the war in El Salvador and the current trend in tho economy toward privatiza­tion and factorization and away from agriculture is crippling the people of El Salvador, who for­merly depended on farming as a way of life. 
These people, who have no income. arc given no choice but to work in a sweatshop for a large corporation taking advan­tage of their willingness to work for very low wages. 
He also cited the mass exodus of young rnen f'rom El Salvador to the U.S. as a causn of the cur­rent difliculties in the country. But, as Giulano said, the situa­tion is so hopeless that people must leave to stay alive. 
Giulano asked for help from Notre Dame in his efforts to help the people or El Salvador. lie said he hopes to sefl more people from the Notre Dame community become active in human rights issues. 
"I would like to sec this univer­sity have busloads of people travel to the School of the Americas protest this November," Giulano said. 
tions. 
In addi­
tion to his book signing and lecture, Keneally will be a guest speaker in two classes. He will speak in professor Jay Dolan's Irish and Irish Americans class and in professor Doris Bergman's Nazi Era class. 
Keneally's visit is sponsored by Notre Dame's Australian Studies program, Dan and Mary Ann Hogers, Jack and Silva Schuster, the Nanovic Institute for European Studies and the Keough Institute for Irish Studies. 

A U D I T I 0 N s 
ND Ope1·a 
Thurs, Oct 7 3:30-5:30 pm Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art 
Please bring one aria or song (from memory) and music for the pianist. An accompanist will be provided. 
Roles open for Spring Semester ND Opera Production. (Production TBA) 
Call 1-6201 for more information. 
AUDITIONS 
I 
W¥Si 
w: -. 
Wednesday, October 6, 1999

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 

Malloy 
continued from page 1 
the Catholic character of Notre Dame, calling it the University's "greatest strength." At the same time. however. he repeated his opposition to the proposed implementation of Ex Corde Ecclesiae, Pope John Paul Il's 1990 apostolic statement on Catholic higher education. 
The implementation would require that Catholic university presidents take an oath of fideli­ty to the Church and that Catholic theology professors receive a mandate from the local ecclesiastir.al authority. 
Malloy did say, however, that the University needed to hire Catholir, faculty members who understand and value Notre Dame's mission and understand its religious nature. 
GSU 
continued from page 1 
but we don't know how." 
Lennon invited members to consider ways to improve alumni ties and to let the Association know how it can help. 
"(Graduate students need tol know there's a network out there for you," he said. 
The Union addressed issues it will bring up to the Board of Trustees, including a proposal for a graduate student centN. The proposal. Canalas said, would have to go through both graduate school vice president James Merz and provost Nathan Hatch before il could 

"[If this doesn't happen] I think, over time, the challenge of us sustaining what we are will be much more diflicult," he said. 
The president said Notre Dame must strive to maintain its active residence life environment in order to maintain the quality of students' learning outside the classroom. 
"We cannot lose that commit­ment to the residential nature of this university," he said. 
The University must also uphold its traditions of service learning and academic freedom, he said. 
One specific the president dis­cussed was the success of "Generations," a fundraising campaign which the University hoped would raise $767 million by early 2001. The campaign passed that goal during the sum­mer and, according to the most recent figures, has topped $820 million. Malloy said the cam­
"It was the most delightful project I've worked on in 25 years at Saint Mary's. Talking and learning about just one subject over the summer was wonderful," he said. 
All of the students and pro­fessors who participated in the SISTAH program seemed to enjoy the extra focus on a singular topic all summer long. 
In researching their chosen topic, they were able to expe­rience life at the other end of' the spectrum as well as forge special friendships. 
The SISTAH program is made possible from a grant given by the respective department in which the study and research would take place. 


reach the Board. 
"Chuck !Lennon! can give us some power [in getting the proposal passed]," said mem­ber Suzanne Coshow. 
Coshow, chair of the Union's health care committee, also reported on the progress of graduate student health care coverage. The committee has been fighting "an extremely long fight" for health care improvements from the University, Coshow said. The University doesn't subsidize health care for graduate stu­dent's children and Coshow's committee is working to change its policy. 
In other GSU news: 
• Members discussed new ways to publicize graduate school research projects and 
paign would continue. 

"Can we reach $1 billion'? Who knows, we'll try," he said. He said the excess funds would go to areas in the University that are still underfunded. 
Faculty members had mixed reactions. 
"It was a nice overview," said Tom Nowak, professor of chem­istry and biochemistry. "But I'm not sure of what the real goals are." 
"I wish there could be a little more substance," he said. 
Others see the president's annual address not as a specific statement on policy, but more of a rallying call for the faculty. 
"This is a pep talk at the beginning of the academic year," said Leonard Chrobot, adjunct professor of economics. "The specifics are laid out in different documents during the year." 
Malloy gives this address each 
year during the fall semester. 
events. Suggested methods included via the GSU and University webpages. 
• 
Members debated over who benefits from the Gordon travel grant for grad student travel. 

• 
Members were reminded about the computer sale Thursday and were asked for volunteers to work the sale. 

• 
Member Paige Doub was installed as the Union's new human diversity chair. 

• 
Canalas informed members that the Union now has repre­sentatives from all academic departments. Heprcsentativns, new and old, wen, called off. 

• 
Members were also reminded that tickets for the graduate school fall break trip to Chicago are now on sale. 


SISTAR 
continued from page 1 
her project, "Words and Images: Exploring Screen Writing." 
"This summer, I was able to figure out for myself what I wanted to learn. l'\o one was handing me a syllabus saying, 'This !~ what ~e are going to learn, she said. 
"You start seeing yourself. I got an insight into the world of academia, how it is for a professor to put together a film class," Cardinali said. 
Associate Professor Westler is as enthusiastic about SIS­TAH as the participating stu­dents are. 
1rONl!(31rllrl! 
FEMINIST COLLECTIVE 
MEETING @ 9PM AT SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE LEMANS HALL 
WOMENS CENTER 
.fc\.E~10NE \\.EILCOf\\fc!! 
Notre Dame Right to Life Club Presents: 
Respect Life Week: October 3-8, 1999 
We lookforvvard to seeing you at the following activities: 
Wednesday: 4:45 pm. Meet at Library Circle for Baby Shower at Hannah's House for single mothers. 
Thursday: 3:45 pm. Meet at Library Circle to take a tour of the St. Joseph County Hospice for the terminally ill. Come and find out how important the final stage of life is. 
Friday: Cemetery for the Innocents. There will be white crosses on the library lawn in front of Touchdown Jesus signifying the number of children killed by abortion each day in the 
U.S. Set up will begin at 6 am and take down will be after the pep rally. Please come out and support this important memorial. Also on Friday, from 12-5 pm, there will be Adoration of the Blessed Sacrament in the Lady Chapel of the basilica. 
Saturday: ND RTL Concession Stand in front of South Quad Flagpole. Shifts begin at 8am and last until about 1 pm. Any help would be greatly appreciated! 
Please call the office at 1-9008 with any questions or to offer support with the concession stand. Thanks for all your support! 
Irish Fighting for Life 
,----------------------------··--.•.. ---­

. 
,

orld 
I II 

Wednesday, October 6, 1999 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page S 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Russia charges into Chechnya 
GROZNY 
Tlw disla.nl ncho of crashing artillery rounds sig11alNI tl111 approach of Llw Hussian military 
l'unsday -now only 15 milns outside Clwchnya·s gl11omy capital. Hussian tanks and infantry. s11pportPd by daily airstrikns, havP facl'd only s<:alll:rcd rr.sistance sinc!1 crossing into Clwf'lrnya a wcPk ago with t.lin aim of ,,stuh!ishing a S<'rnrity zmrn along tlrn rim of tlw rn1wgac!P rPpublir.. Hussian f'orcns havn si,izf'fl tllf' norllwrn third ol' Clrnchnva. und 1ulditi1,11al military opnrations are planned, Hussian l'rinw Miuisltff Vladimir Putin said in Mos<:ow. Hussia took military action after Muslim militants bmwd in Chechnya invaded nnighhoring Dagcstan in August and Snplnmhn. s11Pki11g to cnmw an Islamic state in southern Hussia. 
Ballot box security concerns India 
NEW DELIII 
SD!dinrs patrollt>d in front ol' warnhouses holding millions of ballots ahead of the start of volt> counting Wt>d1rnsday in India's par!ia­nwntary Plnrtions. "We have got snveral guards in thn rooms wlwrn the ballots am," said Saurabh Siwstrn. !wad ol' Pl!1ction Sllcuri­ty troops in Chandigarh in nortlrnrn India. The si:rurity ol' tlw ballots is a major concern in India, wlwre political activists capture voting booths. stuff ballot boxes. tear up vntes for rival l'andidatns, vol!! in other people's names and cast duplicatii ballots. The vote counting comes as India's monLhlong election process draws lo a closn. 
Mob boss found guilty of ordering priest's death 
PALEHMO, Sicily 
t\ Palermo wurt convicted a Malia boss on Tuesday ol' ordering tlrn 1993 murder of a Sicilian priest who spoke out against nrga­nizml crimn. Hev. Giuseppn Puglisi, a 56-year­old pri!!St in orrn of Palermo's worst slums, was fatally shot in the back of the neck while on llrn doorst1ip ol' ilis home. Giuseppe (;raviano was sPntenced to lifo imprisonment !'or ordPring tlw murder. Italian news agen­ciPs rnporll!d. Tim gunman, Salvatorn Grigoli, confossed in 1997 to shooling Puglisi on ord,•rs l'rom mobstPrs in the priest's neighbor­hood in l'alt'rmo. a city on thn northern coast of Sicily. Puglisi was slain just a few months af'tl'I' l'opP .John Paul II toured Sicily and urgPd pri11sts to spnak out in the battle against organizPd n-inw. Thousands of p!1opln attend­Pd l'uglisi's fu,wral and. later, the pope prais!id his couragP. 

S&P 500: 1301.35

10,400.59 
-3.'.!5 
VOLUME LEADERS 

C9Ml'AHX TICKER '\ C\WiQI •CHANOE PHICI 
MCI WCOM -5. lt. •J.UHl 61.H QWSS'I'" Q,WS'T +1. '1~ . 0.5625 33 .25 A'l"flT T +l..a6 +l.l!OO &5.00 AOL AOL . l. 76 . 4..1250 113.25 JIICJI080rr M:IIFT -0.U -0.7525 91 •.fll Dl:Ll, DILL +1,49 -t0.560-0 I! . .Sl CISCO C8CO +l.!9 +1.14:0Q il.62 MTTEL +7. 3? -t0.8750 lJ ,75
""T 

Im'EL COJIIP nrrc -1.05 -0.810"" 7#; .19 011:NZ.Y>IS-CJ.NL Gll:NZ -2:3 .40 -10.060 lJ.9' 
GREAT BRITAIN 

Associat~d Press 
LONDON 

Two London commuter trains smashed into each other during rush hour Tuesday, killing 26 passen­gnrs and injuring 160 on the same rail line as a pre­vious fatal crash just two years ago. 
Ambulances, fire crews, police and rail workers swarmed around the over­turned, mangled rail cars for hours, locating and freeing injured survivors in the smoldering wreckage near the Ladbroke Grove residential area in west London. 
Many passengers sobbed as they described franticul­the search for more vic­l y crawling out broken tims until daylight windows after Britain's Wednesday. worst train accident in The cause of the collision more than a decade. was not immediately 
"I was thinking, God, known, but health and please don't let me die," safety officials have Stuart already Allen said. began an
"Injuries are among the 
"You've investi­g O t worst I have ever seen in gation. 
flames. my professional career. " Great 
You've got Western, smoke. one of 
Robin Touquet

You've got the train a big London hospital worker com pa­b a n g . n i e s You've involved just got to i n think the worst." Tuesday's disaster, had 
Police said one badly been fined $2.47 million damaged car could contain for "dereliction of duty" in more bodies, but called off connection with the crash 
in 1997 thut killed seven people and injured 150 others. 
"I felt an almighty bang," passenger David Taylor said of Tuesday's crash, which occurred at 8:11 
a.m. "I looked up, and I could see the front of the coach was on fire. There were balls of flames com­ing down both sides," 
Emergency crews said 18 people were seriously injured and 124 transport­ed to area hospitals. 
"Injuries are among the worst I huve seen in my professional career," said Rnbin Touquet, an acci­dent and emergency con­sultant at St. Mary's Hospital. 


SOUTH KOREA 
Nuclear power plant reports leak 
Associated Press 
SEOCL 

Hadioactivc water leaked inside a South Korean nuclear powerplant during repair work, exposing 22 workers to small amounts of radiation, the govern­ment said Tuesday. 
/\bout 12 gallons of so­r,alled "heavy water" was leaked during the accident Monday evening at a nuclear plant in Wolsung, 190 miles southeast of the capital Seoul, the Science 
and Technology Ministry said in a statement. 
It said the radioactive water was contained in the plant and did not escape into the environment. 
The mishap followed neighboring Japan's worst nuclear accident, in which 49 p11ople were exposed to radiation last week. The town or Tokaimura was temporarily closed down amid heightened fears about the safety ol' Japan's nuclear plants. 
Those exposed to radia­tion in the Wolsung acci­dent were employees of the state Korea Electric Power Corp., which runs three nuclear reactors in Wolsung. The Canadian designed rcar:tors use the heavy water to generate needed electricity. 
Heavy water behaves like ordinary water, but it contains a heavier version of hydrogen. It is not natu­rally radioactive. but as it circulates in pipes it can pick up traces of radioac­tive metals. So when work­ers handle the water, they routinely treat it as radioactive. 
South Korea and some other countries uso heavy water for cooling in power plants bncause it won't absorb neutrons usnd fnr the energy-making chain reactions. American nuclear plants instead use a different design, which uses ordinary, or light, water. 
The leak occurred during repair work on a cooling water pump at Wolsung. It was the first scheduled maintenance work on that reactor since it opened. 
Wednesday, October 6, 1999

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Eliach to speak on Holocaust 

By FRIN PIROUTEK 
News Writer 
As a young girl. Yaffa Eliach escaped from hurrur, destruc­tion and death of the Holocaust carrying several family pho­tographs in her shoes. 
Separated from her family ­many of whom were killed -Eliach was smuggled out of her native Poland [now part of Lithuania] under an assumed name. Iler brother did not want the young girl to forget the fami­ly, so he carefully hid the pho­tographs under the cardboard liners in her shoes. 
The photographs, including one showing a smiling 4-year­old Eliach, clad in a gingham dress among a flock of chickens and another depicting Eliach held tightly in her father's arms, became her main link to her past. 
"Sometimes, when I was very lonely, and I wanted to see my mother or father, I would hide and look at the pictures," said Eliach. 
Her town, Eishyshok, was destroyed by the Holocaust. Only 29 of the 3,500 members of the town's Jewish population sur­vived. 
Eliach became dedicated to preserving the memory of Eishyshok -the bustling, vibrant Eishyshok that existed before the Holocaust. 
"I wanted to concentrate on life and not on death. We were a creative, dynamic people," said Eliach in an interview with the Philadelphia Inquirer. 
The photos that had been so carefully hidden in Eliach 's shoes became the inspiration for a collection that now numbers 6,000 photos. Approximately 1,500 of these photos are dis­played i11 the three-story Tower of Life at the Holocaust Museum in Washington. D.C. 
The photos depict residents of Eishyshok at home, weddings. bar mitzvahs, the marketplace -celebrating the joy of daily existence. 
"My first reaction, similar to that of many others, was to mar­vel at how rich and varied of a life was destroyed," said Marianne Hirsch. describing her visit to the Tower of Lifo in the book "Family Frames." 
The Tower of Life provides a sharp contrast to other areas of the Holocaust Museum that show concentration camps and mass graves. Those in thn con­centration camps had already been stripped of their humanity and individuality -the Tower of Life showcases the humanity and individuality that was lost. 
Eliach spent 17 years gather­ing this collection of photos, as well as interviewing survivors, reading diaries and searching for official documents. Her search covered six continents and required intense efforts to procure the photos and informa­tion. 

Her efforts culminated in not only the Tower of Life but also the book "There Once was a World: A 900 Year Chronicle of the Shtetl of Eishyshok," a detailed history of Jewish life in Eishyshok from the creation of the town through its destruction during the Holocaust. Eliach's ancestors were among the origi­nal founders of the town in the 11th century. 
"I am telling Adolph Hitler anrl all of his collaborators, here is a Jewish mother and grandmother who continues Jewish life, not only biologically, but intellectual­ly as well. And I am in the midst of the heart of democracy," Eliach told the Philadelphia Inquirer. 
"It's important for people to see that out of [the Holocaust] came something that's very posi­tive, creative, and energetic," said Betty Signer, coordinator of the ;'IJotre Dame Holocaust pro­ject. a sponsor of Eliach's visit. 
"We want people to think about what has happened and how they as an individual can prevent things like this from happening again," said Signer, describing the importance of the Notre Dame Holocaust project. 
Eiiach wiH describe her experi­encns in thP lecture "Restoring a Vanished Past: There Once was a World" tonight at 8 p.m. in the Notre Dame Center for Continuing Education. 


We want a different perspective: You rs. 
We've just revolutionized the financial services business forever, and we're looking for people with the vision and passion to do things differently. The creation of Citigroup brings together the le~ding investment firm with the world's leading corporate bank. It's what gives us our unrivaled global reach of 100 countries. The power to bring ideas to life is unprecedented. When will you make a difference? And when can you start at Salomon Smith Barney? 
Please join us to learn about our firm-wide career opportunities. Tuesday. October 12, 6:30-8:30 p.m. Lafortune Student Center 


SALOMONSMITHBARNEY 
....

Amemberof c1t1groupJ 
CANCUN & MAZATLAN $499&uP SKI· CRESTED BUTTE $329 
1-800-SURFS-UP 

I M A G I N E N O L I M I T S SM
www.studentex ress.com 

Wednesday, Ocrober 6, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
·-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=~=-======================================================================== 
Gunther: Southern Europe searches for identity 
ny BASIL FARJO 
Nnvs W'rltl'r 
Whit(• soullwrn Europn may not hav11 its own unique politind idl'ntity. many co1111tri1•s in the n•giun hav1\ a tradition of' major structural dianges ovur thn last ;,{) years, said Ohio Stahi politi­cal s1:iPnlist Hichard Guutbcr Tu.-sday. 
Cuntlrnr's ll'cturP nxarninrd tlw sodal and economic trends tli al hav,1 in f'I ucnc1•cl Spain. l'ortugal. Italy and Grf'nco since World War II. 
111• lwgan the lectt11·1~ with the question or whether or not soutlwrn Europl' could be con­sidered a region wilh a distinct style of' govcrnmonL Traditionally, the aroa had boen dcsignatnd tlrn "semi-periphery 
of Europn." 
All four countries completely lack a genuine democrnlic tradi­tion by western European or /\merir.an standards. Even the parliaments of these countries have bePn exclusionary and subjccl lo tho coercion of those in Urn top levels or power, according to Gunther. · 
t\nother f'eatuni of southern Furopcan politics has br.cn sharp polarization. In Portugal, Spain and Italy, the peasant populations have tended toward to play a major economic role. radicalism. while the urban Gunther examined the innu­classes have at different times ence of' religion on the polariza­supportC'd Communism and tion of politics. In Italy, for anarchism. he said. Schism has e~amplc, religion played a very 
occurred along  large  role,  
both regional and class lines.  "Politics has a life of  more than any other factor.  
The r.onsis­ its own."  in  the sharp  
tent exception  polarization of  
to this last rule has been Greece,  Richard Gunther Ohio State political scientist  politics, Gunther said. However, dur­ 

Gunther said. The rapid and uneven industrialization that has swept the other countries has passed over Greece, leaving small, family-owned businesses 



ANSWER * 
THECALL '<!:,/ 


Fr. Jim King, C.S.C. Fr. BiU Wack, C.S.C. 
www.nd.edu/-vocation 
ing the 1990s, 
religion became less politically divisive, affecting Italian politics even loss than it affected American politics. In Portugal, there have been many tensions between believers and atheists. 
But these tensions remain out­side the political arena, he said. In contrast, Spain's Second Republic has experienced civil war over the status of the Church in society. 
One of the reasons that Greece has not experienced such polarization is that it is united by the Greek Orthodox Church. 
In the post-WWII era, all four countries have seen extreme left-right divisions. These have often given rise to right-wing corporate dictatorships, like Mussolini's regime in WWII-era Italy. 
/\II four countries have been late industrializers. he said. At the beginning of the 20th centu­ry, they had largely agricultural societies consisting of a majority of uneducated people. 
Because of the belated and rapid industrialization they underwent relative to northern Europe, these nations experi­enced "leap-frogging," becom­ing post-industrial societies without ever having been indus­trial. 
University pressures cause CBLD rate cuts 
increased competition, said
By MATTHEW SMITH 
Steve Ellis, telecommunications 
News Writer 

manager for the University. Over the summer, the con­Notre Dame pressured tract was renegotiated. prior to 
Cincinnati Bell Long Distance 
its expiration date in July of (CBLD) into lowering their rates 
this semester because of 
Management Consultants 
This phenomena can help explain some of' tlrn paradoxes of' southern Europn today. One of the main points Gunther madn was that there was no convergence toward one south­ern European political model. 
"Politics has a lif'e of' its own," he said, contending that this lifo cannot be reduced to simple socioeconomic causes. 
The political center in Italy has actually 'collapsed in the past 15 years, with Urn support 
· increasing for both left-wing and right-wing parties. 
Another paradox created by these unique socioeconomic trends in southern Europe has been that the region has com­pletely skipped Lim era of mass competition politics, in which ideology played a major role in defining the divisions between parties. Instead, it has jumped directly into the politics of today's world, which is shaped by mass media and allows politicians to send their message directly to the voters. 
As a result, southern European politics are more fick­le than politics in northern Europe. Especially in Italy, politicians attack each other openly on television. In the past decade, Greece and Italy have seen the least cabinet durability. 
The unique position of the southern European nations. eco­nomically, socially and cultural­ly, have put each of thom on a course of difficult transitions and sudden political changes. 
Gunther concluded his lecture by saying that it was impossible to make any predictions about the political courses of these nations with the information we have; he sought only to explain the "broad parameters" used in the study of this area of the world. 
2000. It was extended to July of 2001, Ellis said, because CBLD brought their excessive prices down to the level of competition. 
Last year. CBLI) charged 26 cents a minute, and 12 cents a minute after 11 p.m. This year, after 7 p.m .. any Notre Dame student can make calls for a !lat rate of'9.9 cenl'i a minute. 
"We will continue to push them to lower their prices again next time their contract comes up," said Ellis. 
lie explained that CBLD couldn't afford to keep prices where they were without losing a lot of business. "Competition is getting tougher," he said. 
"ICBLDJ was losing business to other companies, and prepaid µhone cards were being widely usPd," Ellis said. 
Ellis also strcssPcl that compn­tition will aid the students in receiving lower prices (Wery timn they rnnegotiat(i tho CBLI) contract. 
"[Competition! is a very good thing for students, and hopefully !mch year prices will get lower," he said. 
Ellis also said that tlrn telecommunications d1\p,trtment is working with CBI.]) on expanded long-distance possi­bilities for Notre Dame's off­campus students. 



page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, October 6, 1999 
Bush chides GOP on social issues 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Edging away from an unpop­ular Congress, George W. Bush said Tuesday fellow Republicans are too often dour, pessimistic and focused on eco­nomics "to the exclusion of all else.", 
"Too often. my party has con­fused the need for limited gov­ernment with a disdain for government itself," the GOP presidential front-runner told New York conservatives. 
It marked the second time in a week the Texas governor has declared his independence from the congressional wing of the party, suggesting that he feels comfortable challenging elements of the GOP establish­ment -a contrast to the 199(i presidential nominee, Bob Dole, who struggled constantly to keep party leaders satisfied. 
Unveiling his second educa­tion initiative in the Democratic bastion of New York also underscored Bush's intention to pursue a general election strat­egy that courts voters outside the GOP base. 
In a speech to a conservative thinktank. Bush said: "Too often, on social issues, my party has painted an image or America slouching toward Gomorrah." He borrowed the line from the title of a book by conservative Robert Bork. "Too often, my party has focused on the national economy, to the exclusion of all else -speaking a sterile language of rates and numbers, of CB0 this and GNP that." 
Government should be limit­ed, but not to the point that Americans get hurt. "That should be our goal; A limited government, respected for doing a few things and doing them well." 
In each casA, he said Hepublicans have a good point: There are too many broken homes and lives; a vigorous economy should be sought and small government is good gov­ernment. 
But he weighed in with a flip side -a rosier view -by say­ing welfare, education and crime problems are being com­batted with compassion by Republican reforms. 
"Problems that seemed inevitable proved to be rr.versible." Bush said. "They gave way to an optimistic, gov­erning conservatism." 
Advisers and aides say Bush is fleshing out his "compassion­ate conservative" philosophy with examples that show his desire to blend conservative principles with more moderate rhetoric. 
In many ways, it's a matter of tone. 
"It's a continuation of his highlighting the differences between conservatism with a frown and conservatism with a smile," spokeswoman Mindy Tucker said. 
Democrats called Bush's remarks a ploy to mask his true conservative leanings. 
"George Bush is just offering new rhetorical wrapping paper on the same Republican pack­age of wrong ideas for America," Democratic National Committee spokeswoman Jenny Backus said. 
To some Democratic and Republican operativfls, the strategy is reminiscent of Clinton's 1996 effort to distance himself from both his own party and the GOP majority. 
Bush advisers said, however, that the governor's goal is less Machiavellian. He simply wants to rise above the partisan lead­ership style of congressional l!rnders and discuss social issues in a positive light ­rather than in a way that seems to condemn people. 
One Bush adviser used this example: Welfare reformers need to find fault with men who haven't paid child support, not single mothers who are trying to make ends meet. 
Polls show that many Americans find Republicans in Congress are too strident and give them lower approval rat­ings than President Clinton. 
"l think what he's doing is laying out a vision of where he wants to take the Republican Party and it is frankly a very difforent direction from where it has been the last five years," said Ralph Reed, a GOP consul­tant who advises the Bush cam­paign. 
Last week, Bush criticized the Hepublican Congress for plans to trim tax credits to· the work­ing poor. He slipped his latest assessment of the GOP estab­lishment in an education address Tuesday that separat­ed himself from the views of many conservatives by calling for federally mandated state testing of students. 
States, he said, should be required to participate in the National Assessment Educational Program, which tests randomly selected stu­dents every two to four years. Participation is now voluntarily. 
Bush also proposed expand­ing the tax-free, interest-bear­ing education savings account program. The governor's dis­tancing himself from Congress has irked some GOP lawmak­ers. 
"We're getting stuff done here. Real stuff. Compassionate conservative stuff," House Majority Whip Tom DeLay, R­Texas, said. 
"The fact of the matter is, he's out campaigning and we right now are in the position of governing," Rep. David Dreier, R-Calif., said. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME Summer Engineering Program Foreign Study in London, England 
INFORMATION MEETING: Wednesday, October 6, 1999 Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 
7:00 p.m. 
ALL ENGINEERING STUDENTS WELcoM.E! 

Gore targets women's vote in NY 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Seeking the women's vote, Vice President Al Gore proposed Tuesday to make life better for working families by providing preschool for every child and encouraging employers to pro­vide on-site day-earn and emer­gency baby-sitting. 
"If you do not understand the fatigue of the American working woman, then you don't deserve to be president of the United States," Gore said to cheers from about 600 mostly female supporters at a Manhattan fund-raising luncheon. 
What role do you want to play in the revolution? 
Come by and see us when 
we visit your campus: 
DATE 
10-7-99 
PLACE 

College of Business Administration (TDB) 
TIME 
6:00 pm 
TYPE OF EVENT 
Info Night 

www.ibm.com/whywork 
---·-· 
"If you elect me president, I will honor your struggle by making it easier to be a good worker and a good parent at the same time," he said. 
Gore, fighting former Sen. Bill Bradley for the Democratic presidential nomination, also said he wanted to further women's rights by ensuring equal pay for equal work, keep­ing abortion legal and offering help to those juggling the demands of jobs and family. 
"If you elect me president, I will make ilvailable high-quality preschool for every child in every family across the United States," he said. "It's the single best investment we can make." 
Gore said he wants to create tax incentives for employers who provide on-site day care or help to parents when child-care arrangements fall through. He also said he would encourage businesses to offer job shares, flexible schedules and telecom­muting. 
Gore also criticized Republican presidential front­runner George W. Bush's pro­posal to cut federal education funds to underperforrning pub­lic schools and give their stu­dents $1,500 each to use for tuition at private, schools or tutoring. 

Wednesday, October 6, 1999 The Observer . BUSINESS NEWS page 9 
FCC wary of Illerger between MCI WorldCoID and Sprint 
to be a surrender," William share in stock. MCI kets and cable television. But Fnr Ebbers. it is the second 
Associated Press 
Kennard, chairman of the WorldCom 's stock slumped in the past thrne years, new stunning takeover in two Fednral Communications $3.68 3/4 to $67.93 3/4 a share technology has changed the years. His upstart WorldCom
NEW YOHK 

Commission, on the Nasdaq Stock Market. competitive landscape, and acquired what was then MCI
MCI WorldCom Inc. 's bold 
sairl in Washington. Bernard Ebbers. president started a wave of mergers and C()ITl!llunkations in 1998, beat­$115 billion plan Lo take ov«H· Kennard said the companies and chief executive of MCI acquisitions. ing out foreign rival British
Sprint Corporation and unilfl "will buar a WorldCom, Consumers can now make a Telecommunications PLC.
the nation's Sflcond-and third­
heavy burden defonderl his telephone call that is carried Tuesdav's deal is structurnd
largnsl long-disLancn compa­
to show how deal during over the Internet. receive e­so that Sprint shareholders
ni11s nrnl immediate rnsistance "Competition has 
consumers a New York mail messages over their wire­will get $76 worth in MCI
f'rom a lop federal rngulator produced a price war in
would br. bet­nows con­less phones and watch movins WorldCom ·s stock for eachwho asked "llow can this be 
ter off" as a the long-distance market. l'ercnce. on their computers. Sprint share as long as MCI
good for COllSllm()J"S?" 
rnsult of" the W e "Like many of the recent WorldCom shares trade
MCI V\'orlc!Com and Sprint, This merger appears to 
merger. understood events in our industry, this between $62.15 and $80.85.
lrnWPVPI", insist. tlrnir dnal, tlin 
be a surrender."
In addition from day merger would have seemed Shareholders ol' Sprint PCS,ricllnst corporate buyout evor. 
to FCC one it is our improbable a few years ago," the stork that tracks thn per­
would slrnngllwn com1.wtitio11 
approval, llrn William Kennard burden of Ebbers said. formance of Sprint's wireless 
across tlw board. 
deal also faces prnof to MCI WorldCom topped a business. will exchange their
WorldCom. as th!\ combined chainnan of the FCC
antitrust show this is competing $100 billion offer shares, on a 1-for-1 basis, for
company will be known. could scrutiny from pro-compet­from BellSouth Corporation to shares in WorldCom PCS. Thny
of'for cuslomnrs local and 
the Justice iti ve," he win control of Sprint.. MCI also will receive 0.1547 of a
long--distancn snrvicn, as well Departmflnl. said. "The chairman !of the WorldCom, based in Clinton. share of MCI WorldCum as mohile phorrn. paging and 
His concerns were echoed by FCC! told us he would keep Miss., sweetened its offer stock, worth $10.5 J. based on
Internet products. all for DIH\, consumer groups and riva·l an open mind." rather than risk losing Sprint's Tuesday's closing price.
flat-ratn monthly fen. 
Baby Bell companies. The long-distance market in 4 million wireless customers MCI WorldCom also willll1\gulators, howl'v,ir. point to The statie corning out of the United States is expected to and 1.7 million paging cus­assume $14 billion in SprintWorldCom's control of' :Hi pcr­Washington had many people, get new entrants as Baby Bells, tomers. debt and preferred stock.
rnnt of the $110 billion U.S. 
including investors, wondering such as Bell Atlantic Ebbers, 58, will be president MCI WorldCom will have 10long-distanr,e markt1t, sncond 
if the deal would fall apart. Corporation. get the green and chief executive of the new seats on the board of the new
only Lo AT&T Corp.'s 43 pcr­Sprint's shares unexpectedly light from regulators. WorldCom. company, while Sprint will
c1mt. 
foll $2 lo $58.87 1/2 Tuesday Congress passed the William Esrey, 59, chairman have six.
"Compntilion has producnd a 
on the New York Stock Telecommunications Act of and chief executive of Kansas The companies hope to com­
pricn war in Lim long-distanco Exchange, despite MCI 1996 to promote competition City, Mo.-based Sprint, will be plete the deal in the secondmarket.. This nwrgPr appears WorldCom's offer of $76 a in local and long-distance mar-chafrrnan of WorldCom. half of next year. 
LET TIAA-CREF HELP YOU BUILD ASECURE FINANCIAL FUTURE. 
For over 80 years, TIAA-CREF has been the leading retirement company on America's campuses. But experience is just one reason why so many smart investors trust us with their financial future. Here are a few more: 
Superior strength With over $250 billion in assets under man­agement, TIAA-CREF is the world's largest retirement organization -and among the most solid. It's one of the reasons why Morningstar says, "TIAA-CREF sets the standard in the financial services industry." 1 
Solid, long-term performance 

We seek out long-term opportunities that other companies, in pursuit of quick gains, often miss. Though past performance can't guarantee future results, this patient philos­ophy has proven extremely rewarding. 

Ensuring the future for th~ who shape it."' 
Surprisingly low expenses 
TIAA-CREF's operating costs are among the lowest in the insurance and mutual fund industries.2 So more ofyour money goes where it should -toward ensuring your future. 
Easy diversification 
We offer a wide variety of expertly 
managed investment options to help build your assets. We make it simple, too, with stock, bond, money market, real estate, and guaranteed options. 
Unrivaled service 
We believe that our service distinguishes 
us from every other retirement company. 
In the most recent Dalbar survey, TIAA-CREF ranks tops in participation 
satisfaction.3 
Call today to find out how TIAA­CREF can help you build the financial future you want and deserve. 
To find out more -give us a call or visit our website 
1 800 842-2776 
www.tiaa-cref.org 

I,U.iro,11.t>,JJar V11riail~-A,um1JJ4'.ill,ifc, W,11}/lfl 'lst,wiltirJ cl ~),t¥"1.J ln.uJrtUI« &ui11.!f A1u.1{1Jo1~, l99<.l; ilmi l,ippcr Analyti.:al Strvicc:,, Inc., l.1fp«-flt"~n1wJ' 1ln11/yl1~·11.I Data, 1CJ99 (qu.i.rtcrly). ,)l)AI.Ut\R lnr .. /997 l1t_filk"J{j111Jribi1/~i,; P:.X,·dltnt, Rnii11.y.,. l'"or more c:omplele inlOrmalion, indu<liog l'harge~ a.ru::l-c;tpcm.c:., 11.:.tll 1800 842.:l73J, ,c.t1. 5509, for CREf and Tli\l\ Rul l'..5talt Ai.·rount prt~ill!l.ff. H.taJ tht-m carefuUy befof!! you inve~ or scnJ money. TIM-CRl~Jt indiviJual J.nJ lN1ti1u1ionU Serviu~i Ji,trihute?. CRm• l'enifii.:a.lc3 and iateu!~h in lhe TIAA Real 
Bank of NY involved 
•

1n money scam 
and tracing the path of' trans­Associated l'ress 
actions through accounts at the Bank of New York.

NEW YOHK 
"As this investigation hasFederal prosecutors say $7 

progressed, cooperation frombillion from Russia was ille­

the Russian authorities hasgally funneled through been forthcoming and has

accounts at the Bank of New 
been helpful." he said.

York in one of the largest 
"Unsealing this indictment will

money laundering cases in 
serve to facilitate tlw mutual

U.S. history, according to a 
flow of information."

criminal indictment unsealed 
Barry Kingham. a lawyer forTuesday. 
Berlin and Edwards, said theThree individuals and three couple -naturalized U.S. citi­companies were charged with zens who live in London ­

channelling the money ­
will "appear in whatever courtbelieved to have ties to the they're required to appear in."

Russian 
· Otherwise,
mafia -in 
he said, "We
the first 

"Many questions about cannot com­
criminal 
ment on the

charges to the various sources of the 
indictment

be brought monies flowing through 
except toin the case. 

the accounts at the Bank state that we
The charges 

ofNew York remain will respond
were con­
at the appro­

tained in a to be answered. " 
priate timethree-count 
in the appro­
indictment 

Mary Jo White priate
filed under 
forum."

seal in U.S. U.S. attorney 
District Court in Manhattan on Sept. 16. 

Peter Berlin, 44, Lucy Edwards, 41, -a former vice president at the Bank of New York -and Aleksey Volkov. 34, as well as Benex International Company Incorporated, Bees International L.L.C. and Torfinex Corp. wern named as defendants. The Hank of New York, the nation's 15th-largest bank, was not named in the indictments. 
U.S. Attorney Mary .lo Whitn said in a statement that "the ongoing investigation is very intense and broad, and it is likely to go on for some timo." 
"Many questions about the various sources of the monies Howing through the accounts at the Rank of New York remain to be answered," she added. 
Lewis Schiliro. an FBI assis­tant director in charge of tho New York office, said the FBI is primarily focused on deter­mining the origin of the funds 
lie said he 
could not comment on whether the cou­ple will light extradition. 
It could not immediately be determined who reprnsents Volkov; prosecutors believe he is not in the United States. 
Federal investigators have been working for several months in attmnpt to unravol the Rank of New York case. Hussian businesses and indi­viduals -including organized crime groups -are suspectnd of illegally laundnring the $7 billion through accounts at the bank. 
Money laundering is the process of moving criminal gains through a serins of bank accounts to make tlrnm look like legitimate business pro­ceeds. 
The indictment alleges that the defendants conspired from 1996 to August 1<)99 to illegal­ly transmit funds and rnceive deposits through thr BrinPx and Bees accounts at the Bank of New York. 
Torfincx allegedly handled the transfer ol' moneys. 

VIEWPOINT 
OTHE page 10 BSERVER Wednesday, October 6, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Norrc Dame, IN 46556 024 Somh Dining Hall. Norre Oame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michelle Krupa 

MANAGING EDITOR  8L:SINE.,S MANAGER  
M. Shrnnun Ryau  David Rogero  
A.SST. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Petelle  

Nrws EDITOR: Tim Logan VIEWl•OINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughcn SPORTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler 
SCENE EDITOR: /vlichael Van~gas SAINT MARv'S EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Dalum 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Bryan Lut.c 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Bret Huelac SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers WEB ADMINISlRAfOIG Erik Kushto 
CONTROLLER: Timothv Lane GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 

CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL INF0..............631-7471 FAX.............. . ...................... 63[-6927 AoVERTISING.....................................63 l-6900/8840 
observeraPdaiwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF.... .......................631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR/AsST. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFTCE.. ......................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu V!EWPOINT.................................................631-5303 observer.viewpoint. l@nd.edu SPORTS........................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE.......................................................631-4540 
observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARV'S............................................631-4324 
observer.smc. l@nd.edu PHOT0........................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS .................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at http:flobrerver. nd.edu for daily updates of campus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as cattoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for
weather for up-ro-the 

weekly student reviews
minure forecasts 

online features for spe­
advertise for policies 

cial campus coverage 
and rates of prinr ads 

about The Observer
archives 10 search for 

co meet the editors and
articles published after 
August 1999 
staff 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. Acting as pub­lisher ofThe Observer, the administration of the Universiiy ofNocre Dame du Lac prohibits the adver­tisement ofalcohol and The Observer's acceptance of advertisements from specified iypes ofgroups. 
The news is reported as accurnrely and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assisram Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the aurhors and nor necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoim space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions ,hrough ler,ers is encouraged. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be direct­ed to Editor m ChiefMichelle Krupa. 
We must bridge the racial gap from within 
We are writing this column together because we feel that it's important to include both of our perspectives on a issue that is a sensitive topic to students at Notre Dame. One of us is a Caucasian female majoring in PLS and one of us is OMSA an African American male majoring in comput­What's Your er engineering. Last Shade? year we met at a Notre Dame retreat known as an LTR: a Learning To Talk About Race Retreat. We were among 40 students who watched a film. and par­ticipated in discussions and group activ­ities, where we made friends and social­ized together. After the scheduled part of the day had passed, every one of us stayed up until 4 a.m. crammed into one of the bedrooms ... talking about race ... on our own time. For what reason? Because we knew it was important and needed to be discussed. 
For too long, race relations between students at Notre Dame have been writ­ten off, swept under the carpet, and even ignored. Every now and then we, the Notre Dame "family," feel the need to remind ourselves that there is a prob­lem. The Observer's Sept. 15 column, "Controversies arise about sources of stereotypes," made an effort to address this issue. Although we applaud the effort, we are in disagreement with some of the article's conclusions. 
The column suggests that stereotypes towards African-American, Asian/Pacific Islander, Hispanic, Native American and International students exist because they make up a comparatively small portion of the student population here at Notre Dame. The column proposed the simple "answer" of increasing the diver­sity of the student body. We would argue that the solution does not merely depend upon increasing the diversity of the population. Would a more diverse population be positive for both minority and majority students? Yes indeed. However, the "numbers solution" is based on the assumption that numbers are the only problem! If this were true, then by the chart, it would follow that Latino students feel less stereotyped than African American or Asian stu­dents because they make up approxi­mately 9 percent of the population in comparison to 3 and 4 percent. In order to truly reverse stereotypes and change the color boundaries in our dining halls, across campus, even in this nation, we need to start right now with our own perceptions and behavior. 
First of all, it is important to point out that the University and a proportion of currently enrolled students make a huge effort to attract and welcome minority students to Notre Dame. Each year, two entire weekends are devoted to the recruitment of minority students. These visitation weekends go beyond the usual Notre Dame regimen in order to present an environment that would appeal to prospective minority students. Furthermore, minority students take time out during the school year to host these prospects, make phone calls, and even visit high schools in efforts to recruit the underrepresented. But once these students come to Notre Dame. they may very well find that they are stereotyped, looked past and often left feeling unwelcome. 
The burning question that now arises is how to remedy this situation? How do we transform from a place where poten­tially 16 percent of the students feel excluded into a place where people understand each other, value each other's differences and do not segregate along such strict color lines? We believe the answer is even simpler than increasing the numbers and can be done without the aid of the University. The solution starts with the person in the mirror. We must start with our­selves! Ifwe are concerned about the predominance of stereotypes, then we must admit that it is due to our failure to overcome boundaries and our failure to interact. 
The natural response of students in the majority is to point out that interac­tion does not occur because minorities tend to exclude themselves. It is often said that they are welcomed at dorm parties, SYRs or other social events, but they rarely attend. But are they really welcomed and made to feel comfort­able? Caucasian students must remem­ber that as the majority, they have the advantage. This means that the over­whelming social behavior, viewpoints, lifestyles, entertainment interests and topics of conversation will suit the majority and will not necessarily soothe the interests of the minority. Therefore, it makes sense for minorities to tend to interact solely with those who identify and relate to them. To solve this impasse, it is not the responsibility of minority groups to abandon their identi­ties and assimilate into a mainstream way of life. The responsibility lies in the hands of the majority to challenge them­selves and leave their comfort zones. After all, this is what minority students are asked and actuallv forced to do every day. while they ·exist in an envi­ronment where they may never cross paths with another minority student. As crazy as it may sound, this docs happen. 
Students in the majority must ask tlrnmselves if they have made the eITort to understand the predicament of ethni­cally underrepresented students or sup­ported the numerous multicultural events on campus, no less the endeavors of their neighbors, friends and room­mates. The opportunities exist every Sunday; students can attend Misa En Espanol or Black Catholic Mass. In addi­tion, every first Friday of the month, students are invited to a sociable lunch with the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs. It's unreasonable to expect minorities to attend every Acoustic Cafe if members of the majority do not extend themselves to appreciate the tal­ents displayed at Black KoITee House, Asian Allure or Latin Expressions. 
Members of the majority should real­ize that they could be taking advantage of the ever-present social opportunities, academic courses and outright invita­tions to appreciate and learn from the rich cultures that surround them every day. As a whole, students in the minori­ty are open to any genuine efforts made through conversation or interaction in order to dismantle the barrier between white students and students of color. Most importantly, we'll find that our interpersonal relationships, which stim­ulate the sharing of cultures and the growth of individuals, can change us all. It will ultimately be the work of these valuable relationships to eliminate stereotypes and form long-lasting friendships. 
What's Your Shade is the bi-weekly column sponsored by the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs. It appears every other Wednesday. Justin Smith. Siegfried. ·oz and Rene Mulligan. Pasquerilla West. 'OJ contributed to this column. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 

DILBERT  
HOW'5 THE. NEW GUY DOING'?  NOT BAD FOR AN EMSR'(O  I HATE. THE FACT THAT HE ONL"< GOT FERTILIZED A. WE.EK. AGO A.ND HE GE.T5 PA.!.O MORE THAN I DO.  

SCOTT ADAMS 

lN ALL FAIRNE.<o'o, 
HE OOE.S OB5TRUCT
~ 
ii 
,., 

PROGRE~>S LE.55
.. C 

THAN 'YOU DO. 
E\JE.R'YONE 
SIDE.$ WITH 
THE CUTE ONE. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"A foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds, adored by little statesmen and philosophers and divines. With consistency a great soul has simply nothing to do." 
Ralph Waldo Emerson American author and transcendentalist 
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE Wednesday, October 6, I999 BSERVER page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Students respond to reality of eating disorders 
Men suffer from 
Student gov 't offers aid 
l am writing to applaud the have prohlmns to st=wk help. 
recent artirles and letters in The Most importantly. among our 
Observer on eating disorders. As peers we must create a zero tol­
coordinator of gender issues in erance environment for obses­
eating disorders, too 
This leuor is in rnspons,• alone. Latt'ly. I've nisorted 
the office of the student body sive talk about food. weight or
to and i11 crnnplell' supp(lri Lo talking to people I don't 
president, I have dealt with this exercise. It is unacceptablr, for 
of tlrn previous fnw letters know very well. Ifs helped 
issue a lot recently. My partner students to be subject to danger•
concorning nating disorders a bit, but I still have this 
Tim Hagerty and I want to nus and unhoalthy comments
and support groups for µroblmn in the back of my 
assure the student body that the such as: "I am so fat" and "I look
tlwm. I am surprisncl to see mind. boiling up, ready to 
Student Government is aware of like a whale." Whil1> w1. must bo 
these lnttcrs. since in my . hit mo again. I can say that 
this problem on campus. sensitive to the psychos or those
f'ew short Wi\Hks horn, l'vn a l'nw wetiks ago, I was at 
Currently we are sending out suffering from eating disorders,
t•ncountnn~d vPry little on tho lowest point I've ever 
survevs to <lorms to collect much we are each tmtitled to live and
tho topic. I did Sf\l' an ad been. A Reckers Smoothie 
needed statistics on eating clisor­eat in an environment free of
m11:n about a possihle group shouJdn't have to carry you 
uers at this University. such self-defilement. Encourage
at Saint Mary's, but it didn't f'or live straight days. 
Additionally, we are planning a yourself and your friends to
s1)rnll too promising. It was I don't !'eel like I'm alone 
healthy lifestyle seminar that adopt a more positive self-image. 
also limit<1d to women. I am hem. I also don't foe! like 
targets nutrition. exercise, and Be brave and let people know 
a male freshman at Notre I'm "all bettrr." I men­
mental health. We arc compiling that it makes you rmcomfortable 
Dame and I have been suf­tioned earlier that I was 
information on eating.issues to to be subject to their self-degra­
l'oring from u mild eating su!foring from a "mild" eat­
be made available in the dorms. dation.
disordnr f'nr at least a year. ing disorder. What if sud­
In the future, we hope to host a Please feel free to call Tim or
I have n1w11r met anotlrnr clenly it isn't mild anymore? 
round table discussion address­myself in the student govern­
guy with my prnhlmn. For a I don't want this problem. 
ing this issue. ment office if this issue inh>,rests 
long time. Ijust assumed I've got other things to deal 
As members of the Notre you and you would like to help.
that guys didn't haw this with. What do I do'? Where 
Dame community, the entire stu­
problmn. Aftr;r sneing those am I going to go? 
dent body has specific responsi­
lntlers. I foll very encour­Who out there is willing 
bilities in relation to this issue. Katie Koch
aged. to talk to me about this? 
We need to support victims who Sophomore
In high school I found 
are currently suffering from eat­Cavanaugl1 Hall
support in a !'ow close Anonymous 
ing disorders. We need to October 4, 1999
friends. but as Wt) wont our October 5, I999 
encourage those who we suspect
snparatn ways l was left 
Notre Dame needs consistent stance·on advertising policy 
A not-so-wise man once told me that the "C" in 
Notre Damn stands for "Consistency." Funny, I 
said Lo him, Hmm is no "C" in Notre Dame. I know, 
lw told Ill!), that's because there's no consistency. 
I was walking across campus yesterday, perus­ing Thn Observer as is my habit. It seemed liko a typical news day and thn sports stories weren't rnally thrilling me either. Lntters raged angrily about our football plight {again), the poor guy in lost and found still hasn't found his Waterman pen and Lhn personals dncried strongly, "Yeah, tandem bikns dudll." All pretty normal, I dedded, just anotlwr bright sunshiny day of status quo hem at Notre Danw. 
Until I rPad on. Thn <;ntire following pagr1 was dnvol1!d to an advertisem,rn1. for an upcoming con­n•rt at tlrn Joyce Cr:nter. The performer, world rnnownPd for his singing and songwriting talents was nmw other than Elton John. Impossible, I thought, lw can't 1wrform hnrn. l\iot at Notrn Damn. H's loo small u venue, too small a crowd. Why would such an accomplished, world l'l\11owned musician, choose to perform hero in scenic and prosperous northern Indiana? The .Joyce Center is nice for vollnyball and everything. but big-name entnrtainment? Please, it certainly will never battle Madison Square Garden for the moniker or "World's Most Famous Arena," not in this lifetime at lnast. Elton John, ha ha, it has to be a mistake. 
I returned to my room. having nearly exhausted Th(~ Obimrver f'or the day to find some of my l'rknds doiug what it is we do a lot or -nothing. One of' tlrnm asked to see the paper and browsed through, only t.o stop dead at the sight ol' Elton. "Why is he coming l lERE?" my friend wondered out loud. I low is this possil>le? That's what I thought. I told him, it's way too small. 
Ynah. 111y friend said, and he's gay. Truly a ray ofinsightl'ul sunshine. 
For all the dnbate that goes on at Notre Dame rn11cer11i11g tlrn rights and treatment of' homosexu­als, l struggle with the logic ofthis upcoming con­corl on Nov. 13. On one hand, there exists a policy which forbids the offidal gathering or organiza­tion or a gay and lm;bian organization on campus. This same umbrnlla of' understanding was extend­ed al tho lwginning of thn semester to prohibit The Obstlrvnr from running advertisements of groups that do not nspousn tlrn teachings or Urn Catholic Church. Th!\ gays can not meet, and tlrny ran not si:wak. At leasL noL in public. right? OK, fine. 
I've noticed, however, a series of events that 
seem to contrast directly this official policy. 
Anyone who reads the Classifieds with regularity 
knows it is not uncommon to see, under 
"Wanted," the solicitation of new members for a 
gay and lesbian student group. ;\Jo advertising, 
huh? Anyone that attends football games knows 
that the crowd is often graced with the aerial 
advertisements of overheacl banner-toting planes. 
My favorite last week was for DeJa Vu, a Michigan 
gentleman's club that offered no cover Saturday 
night. for any, ahem, gentleman that provided a 
ticket stub. Groups that do 119t espouse Catholic 
teachings, you say'? Interesting. Surely the 
University has control over the Stadium's air­
space. 
Finally, we have Elton. Famous performer and 
musician extraordinaire, John first revealed that 
he was a homosexual during a Rolling Stone inter­
view in the 1970s. Since then he has paraded 
across stages the world over wearing funny col­
ored glasses and silly hats. He has starred in 
music videos, such as that for the 1983 hit song 
'Tm Still Standing," gyrating with such impurity and provocation that it made Elvis' gig look like a ·square dance. Not a very good track record, Elton. 
Seems that you've been a very bad example. 
So where, I wonder, does it end? Elton John 
comes to town in the same year Aerosmith front­
man Steven Tvler "Dude Looks Like A Ladv"-ed 
his way acros~ the -gasp -same floor that our 
basketball team plays on and crystal-mcth using 
Third Eye Blind brought clown the Stepan Center. 
Not exactly in accordance with the piety that's 
practiced here, is it'? We can't have this, not at 
Notre Dame. Backed by a sort-of firm policy, 
we've got an almost-as-firm stance on the limits of 
public homosexuality endorsement. I'll admit, I'm 
a fence-sitter too. Some days I agree with 
Univnrsity policy on this subject, and othPrs I don't 
think they could be more wrong. I have that luxu­
ry, however, not being a prominent. well-endowed 
Catholic university. The correct answer to the gay 
question on this campus will always vary with 
who you ask and when, and that's fair enough. 
What isn't fair, to gays, straights and unknowns 
alike, is such a fuzzy contrast of word versus deed. 
Paul Camarata 
Sophomore 
Dillion Hall 
September 21. 1999 
Reisman champ acts like a chump 

I am a 1988 graduate of Notre Dame and came back to visit for the Michigan State game with my 6-month-old son and wife. I brought them to experience the excitement of a Notre Dame football weekend -but I left disappointed and disgusted. 
The Friday before the game, my son and I approached Heisman winner Leon Hart, who was there promoting his tape of the 1949 championship season at the bookstore. 
I bought one of the mini-commemorative footballs !'or my son. l introduced my son and myself and told Mr. Hart it was an honor to meet him. Mind you, there was N'O ONE else around the table al the time. I asked Mr. Hart to sign my son's football to put in his room -thinking it would be a neat momentum for him as he grew. To my dismay and surprise. Mr. Hart looked me straight in the eye and coldly said he would not sign it. Tho only way I would get an autograph, he said, was if I bought a tap11! 
1must say, for all the donating this University asks of its alum­ni. I find it appalling one of it's biggest names could not sign an autograph for a 6-month-old boy! 
lt left a bitter and disappointing taste in my mouth. It's sad to think money has hecome the most important focus of this University! I think the University best think twice about people it asks to represent it before its "golden" image becomes severely tarnished. 
Paul A. Geary III 
Class of 1988 
September 29, 1999 


B s 
page 12 Wednesday, October 6, 1999
O
THl 

BSERVER 
ND alumnus takes a 'Walk 
Nicholas Sparks speaks about !ife as a writer; following an evolutio bestselling author ofenchanting love sto 
By C()URTNEY KERRIGAN 

Scene \'(/rirer 
Nicholas Sparks. You may have heard of him. or you may associate him with his novel, "Message in a Bottle." which was made into ~o. 1 movie by Warner Brothers. If you are a fan of Sparks, you've probably also mad his first book, "The Notebook," a sweet and passionate story about everlasting love. Sparks has definitely had his 15 minutes of fame. But the truth is. he's just an ordinary guy -a Notre Dame alumnus in fact -with a knack for writing passionate. emotional love stories. Sparks was _born in Omaha, Neb .. and. raised in Fair Oaks, Calif. He attend­Nicholas Sparks ed Notre Dame on a full track scholarship and
book-signing 

majored in business The Notre Dame alumnus finance. He had a stream of short-term jobs, includ­
returns lo his old stomp• 

ing starting his own busi­
ing grounds to share some 

ness before becoming a 
autographing love. pharmaceutical represen­
tative. He married in 1989,
. Where: Hammes Notre 

currently has two sons and 
Dame Bookstore he lives in New Bern, N.C. 
Sparks actually wrote his
. When: Oct. 19, 

first novel while he was 
12:30 p.m. to 2 p.m. 

enrolled at Notre Dame. He 
was injured in track during 
his freshman year and couldn't train the following 
summer. 

"I never considered writing at all. and training for 
track and field and running ... that was my pas­
sion," Sparks said. "But when I went home that 
summer. and I couldn't do it. I went practically 
bananas. I was the most miserable person in the 
world. 

"My morn just got tired of me pouting. and she 
said, 'Why don't you go out and do something. "They're love stories, they're tragedies, they're first two novels while enrolled, and took a class, 
Write a book.' So I said, 'Ok.' So I wrote a book." stories that go back through history, and that have American Literature from the 1950s, which intro­
He wrote two more novels, one in his senior year appealed to audiences both male and female for a duced him to the classics of literature and inspired 
at Notre Dame, and one when he was 25, but he long time," he said. him to become an avid reader. 
never believed he could make a living out of it. Many fans send a lot of positive feedback to "I don't think you can take a class there that's 
Then when he was 28, he decided to give writing Sparks, describing how his novels have impacted easy, and that's kind of the way life is," he said. "If 
another chance. their lives. "I think they respond to the emotions you're going to excel in anything. there are very 
"I was happy in my life. I was married, I had a contained within the work," Sparks said. "I think few easy roads. Most roads are very challenging house. I had a job, [ had a couple of kids, a lot of they see either pieces of themselves, or pieces of and [Notre Dame] gets you used to rising to the things were great," said Sparks. "But at the same those they love in the characters." challenge." time. I felt like somewhere along the way ... I had Sparks .also attributes some of his success to the Sparks' does give some advice to an aspiring lost the desire to chase my dreams. I didn't want to education he received at Notre Dame. He wrote his writer in the student community at Notre Dame: live my life waking up and going to work and com­"Keep your day job. I wrote 'The Notebook' in my ing home ... I wanted more. And at 28, with a fami­spare time ... not to say that you can't do it, but ly to support, I always pay your bills ... that will take the pressure was fairly lim­off and free your creative capacity."
"Ifyou 're going to excel in 
ited in my Aside from the financial benefits of being a best­options, so I anything, there are very few selling author, Sparks hasn't let fame and fortune thought, 'Why alter his life excessively.
easy roads. Most roads are
don't I give "You'd be surprised at how little it actually
very challenging and [Notre
writing anoth­changes on a day-to-day basis; who I was before I er shot, a real Dame] gets you used to ris-sold the novel is pretty much the same as after I shot this time. became successful," he said.
ing to the challenge.,, 
Why don't I Even though the financial worries of life are now work really absent from his life, he explains that there are hard on this, Nicholas Sparks other things that he worries about. and see what author .. Financial pressure is replaced with a different happens.' And kind of pressure; pressure. to improve and grow that was 'The your audience, and that's actually a very large Notebook."' pressure, believe it or not," Sparks said. 
Sparks is infamous for his emotional love stories. The author seems to be managing this new pres• 
His novels are all very different, although they are sure well, as he continues to write popular novels. 
all about love. Warner Brothers also plans to make a film of "A 
"['The Notebook') really explores everlasting love, Walk to Remember," his newest novel which will be 
['Message in a Bottle'] covered. the second chance released tomorrow. Because one of his novels has 
at love and ('A Wal.k to Remember'] covers the been made into a movie already, Sparks enjoys
beauty and power and innocence of first love," some bonuses of being semi-famous. 
Sparks said of his three major novels. "I get the best advantages ... all the perks of star­
Sparks may be an expert at writing creative and dom without any of the costs of stardom," he said. 
tour.bing love stories, but he notes that it doesn't "Never once have I been interrupted for an auto­
come easily. ".It's very difficult to conceive of a graph when I'm with my family because no one rec­
story that can really capture [those different kinds ognizes authors." 
of love I in a way that really hasn't been told Sparks surely has a bright future ahead of him. 
before," srrid Sparks. "So far most of my stories He continues to find inspiration to enlighten, enter­
have been initially inspirr1d by people I've known tain and touch his growing audience through his 
and events in my own family." fervent and tender love stories. What's next for this 
But he insists that his novels arc not as original typical Notre Dame alum'.? 
and unique as most critics might give him credit "Today {Sept. 27] I will finish my fourth novel. 
for. have three pages to go," he· said. 




s .. O
HIE 

Wednesday, Ocroher 6, 1999 BSERVER page 13 

Remember' 
·om Notre Dame athlete to 
BOOK REVIEW 
Sparks' 'Walk' debuts Thursday 
By COURTNEY KERRIGAN 
Sn·1H' Writer 
"A Walk lo BnmPmbnr," Lim latest novc•I by Nicholas Sparks, i!i a touch­ingly swt't!l novnl about first lovP. and tlw mad l.11 adulthood that sonrnlimos accnmpani1)s it. Sparks writH!i a love­ly story about the simplicity of a now ndationship lrnlwcH)l1 two teenagers and lfH• difficult ltissons that spark th,~ transition f'rom adolescence to adulthood. 
Landon Cartnr is a somewhat slPrPotypical ll\tHJagl'r from the late l'J:i0s. lit! is a small town trouble­maknr who f'inds pl1msun) in snnak­ing out lall' at night, soaping up car windows and "nating boilt•d peanuts in thn graveyard" with his buddins. A s1·11ior in high school, Landon is d1!tNmi1wd to sptrnd tlw year hang­ing out, applying 
t. o r o 11 t• g" and Spark's trademark, taking "hlow ofl'" "A Walk to and is only improved classPs likP upon in his newest drama. Remember" novel. His style, llis f'atht)r though simplistic in W o r t h Ca r I. tH , 
diction but appropri­hPir to a large ate for communicating t!Slatn and plnnty the inner dialogue of a 0 (' Ill o 11 !~ y , iS out of five shamrocks 17-year-old boy, 
somewhat of' a unveils innocence and lq{<!IHl in the: truth so fresh in first
Author: Nicholas Sparks
l'amily's small love that it opens a 
Publisher: Warner Books
town of' Bnauf'ort, door into the mind 
N.C. Not only has h t! be P n a c o n ­grnssman for a number of years, but his f'attwr (Landon's grandfather) s·tart11d a history ol' scandal and t111rcist in tlHi town that the family has not f"ully lived down. 
Jamil' Sullivan is the daughter of llw rPvHrP1Hl at tlw Soutlrnrn Baptist church that Landon and his family altPIH.I. Shi) is Urn kind or girl that PVPry adult adorr~s and nvcry teenag­Pr ridinr!Ps. Slw wnars her hair in a hun and sp1111ds lwr lunch hours rnading tlw Bible and her free time hclpin!-{ orphaned children. rather than ::;ocializing. She preaches from llw Biblo co11stantlv and lrnlieves that ~:vnrytl1ir~g that,,11.appens is part of 
tlw Lord s plan. 
.lamiP's father, known in the Lown as lliiglwrt, nol only has had a V1'11d11tta against Landon's family for years, but is onn of the least lik0.d nw11 in Lown. Only Jamie, his µcrson­al an!-{1\I and tlw only link left to his wifo who passnd away, redm1ms him. 
The stnry follows Jamie and Landon. who have been in the s1une school sincn first grade. Although tlrny hav11 had a few convBrsations ovfw the ynars. Jamie was never on I.andon 's "social calendar." 
This year, though, she ig in Landon's drama class. By the fi_rst day ol' school, she alrnady has the \(\ad roln of the angel in the Christmas pageant because she's the rovuond's daughter. Not only is ,Jamie tho last person Landon expects to spend his sP-nior year with, but in his eyes. she is also the least likely lo be able to teach him a lesson about life and love. 
It is almost fate when Jamie is the only girl Landon can find who doesn't already have a date to the homecom­ing dance, which he is required to attend as student body president. lleluctantly, Landon asks her to go with him, and thereby begins a series iii' events that will change his life for­ever. 
In a novel rich with adolescent wit­ticism and imprudence, Sparks con­tinues to use love to weave together a story of' passion, fate and emotional and personal growth, as he does in his previous novels ("The Notebook," "Message in a Bottle"). 
The recurring motif of' romance 
and true love is 
and heart of Landon 
Carter, who is experi­encing these feelings for the first time. 
Although Landon's character lacks in sophistication and maturity initial­ly, his character develops from a typ­ical pretentious teenage far;ade into a genuine and true person who is no longer ashamed of his feelings. 
Landon learns lessons about the inner workings of the symbolic human heart and realizes that even though people may appear to be dif­ferent at first glance, a closer look will prove that everyone has the same feelings or fear, love and hope, 
He also begins to understand why being a moral and loving person is so important to everyone and why .Jamie seems to understand that. I-le begins to grow into the man that he will one day I.Jecome, and never could have been without Jamie's influenr.e. 
"A Walk to Hcmembcr" is a capti­vating novel that makes clear the fragility and brilliance of naked emo­tion, esµecially. but not exclusively, in first love. It is fearless in its illus­tration of raw feelings so often pre­sent in adolescence. It is a novel that is pure, genuine and simple. 
Although somewhat lacking in liter­ary sophistication, just like Landon, Sparks writes a story that most will appreciate and all will relate to, bemuse it elucidates the sweetness of' life that so often is hidden by everyday triviality. 
n-.1·e1•1t1 II 
tll:lfltilllrl 

t~t>m.as Keneally, a.uthor of '1Sch1ridlefslist'' signs copies of ~The GreatShame," an epic of the 1r1sh••·people. -
Ryatrver Berkmoes, Notre Dame 

.. graduate and author of ''Lonely Planet Guide to Chicago," discusses the writing processJor travel writers. 
. · Mieha~tSteele signs copies of ~Kciute Rockn~." ·· 
Father Edward Malloy sings copies of>''Monk's Reflections: A View from the Dome" · to benefit Boys & Girls Ch..1b·ot St Joseph County. 
Michael Steele signs copies of 
•tKnute Rockne." 
S~tµr~~yr1p:~:~;~.~.~qrl Cc:>ngressman Peter King signs 
copies ofnisJirst novel j'Terrible 
·· E3~aoty."· 

·:-•--.... ·.,, '"' -,-"' :. :, .' ·-·:--.. ·..· 
•-•-,gqt.1C~.\1a•$.rn•··H~iijf'l.·•.-. F<>rl'her ltish Coach Ara Parseghian 
$i~2~ cqpies of "Notre Dame's · · •. ~reatestCoaches'' to benefit Ara's 6.rPioKFoundation. 
rit~tfla.y Robinson signsfhis QeW bio.graphy "Rockne Darr1;1:}:)T'he Making of a 
tl_•.t,.egendi.'1 
~igu~ofijouth Bend: A tasting . ~f~~tuied .. in Nutbread &,nfJ <areatBeginnings,
ales; 
'} lijs $parks signs_copies of :~~yvbopk,"AWalk to Remember." 
<;,fJo~n Kirvan discusses and · his nevv book "God Hunger." 
.. -,,. _-.,• 
fG~()~ge\Neigel discuseses p~i¢~pt~s Qthis ·new :~Y or,f P9pe John Paul, 
·sto,Flppe."> 
" ' . 

·:... ~f'et ~.dvvard. Malloy signs copies 
e>('.'Mdnk~s .Refelctions; A View From ··.Jij~ Dotnet· tobeneflt the Boys and · ijfrts Club of St. Joseph County. 
.,., ":" :,,,._" "•"' : 

:Q,~c1ch Gerry Faust signs copies of i ::'the Golden Dream." 
'O__·>t;C:30<., A . . f "8 . C h I' B ' 
.. ·o > • . .. _..__ ••.•.·, ._..• ...-._. __ ·•·•··· . . :;. :~1gn1ng o·• ·-••· .emg at o ,c, e1ng.:1,:q;~Q'.f!j~ro;:-{2·:$();i?::rot ' '.~i;n~rican:The Notre Dame Story, ' -:1~42-1934'' ·by author Robert Burns. 

''':\f:i:1/:\~:::::ik:S:JE\:-:-": 

r 
Wednesday, October 6, 1999

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
NATIONAL LEAGUE DIVISIONAL PLAYOFFS 
Alfonzo's grand slam 
lifts Mets over D'backs 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX 

Edgardo Alfonzo ruined Randv Johnson at the start and buried the Arizona Diamondbacks at the finish. 
Alfonzo, who had a solo homp run in the first inning, hit a grand slam with two outs in the ninth off reliever Bobby Chouinard as the New York Mets beat the Diamondbacks 8­4 ·Tuesday night in the opener of their NL playoff series. 
-
"Over the last few years, Edgardo Alfonzo has been a fabulous baseball player who has kind of a star quality," said Mets manager Bobby Valentine, in a playoff game for the first time. 
"But he's improving. He's gaining confid1rnce, and with confidence you get perfor­mances like you saw tonight," he said. 
Johnson, who left the game with the bases loaded and one out in the ninth, lost his sixth straight postseason decision, a major league record. 
He struck out 11 and held on­through an exhausting 138 pitches as Arizona rallied from a 4-1 deficit to tie it at 4. 
John Olerud became the first left-handed batter to hit a homer off Johnson in two years with his two-run shot in the third that made it 3-0. Olerud and the Mets· other left-hander in the lineup each had two hits off Johnson, who usually domi­nates lefties. 
"The guys came out swinging. I thought they were just great at-bale; tonight," Valentine said. "We got four hits left-handed, and that's rlctcrmination. That's reaching down and wauting it." 
The Diamondbacks rallied on home runs by Erubiel Durazo and Luis Gonzalez to make it 4­all. 
Johnson settled down to pitch four hitless innings. but another lefty, Robin Vent.urn, led off thH ninth wiih a single. With one out, Rey Ordonez singled, then Johnson walked Melvin Mora to load the bases and bring on Chouinard. 
Third baseman Matt Williams made a diving stop. his second of the game, on Rickey Henderson's grounder, and threw home to force out Ventura. 
But Alfonzo hit Chouinard's 3­1 pitch just inside the left-field foul pole for the grand slam. 
AMERICAN LEAGUE DIVISIONAL PLAYOFFS 
Yanks blank Rangers in Game I 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Sure, thev're not the 1998 Yankees. I~ their postseason opener, they looked even stronger. 
Picking up right where they left off last October, New York blanked Texas yet again, with Orlando Hernandez allowing two hits in ·eight innings and Bernie Williams driving in six runs as the World Series champi­ons heat the Rangers 8-0 Tuesday night. 
''1 always pitch well with pressure," Hernandez said. "' I like to have pressure when I pitch." 
Williams, showing why the Yankees paid $87.5 million to keep him, had a two-run dou­ble off loser Aaron Sele in the fifth, a three-run homer off Mike Venafro in the sixth and an RBI single off Jeff Passero in the eighth. 
So much for the talk earlier this yeat that he doesn't hit under pressure. 
"I thought I was going to have a terrible night," Williams said. "I was sleepy and dragging a little bit and it was cold. Something hap­pened when they said the lineups. Something inside of me just woke up, said it's time to play." 
lie started slowly. with a groundout in the first, He wasn't happy. 
"I sa.id you jusl got to go out and play hard, you got to wake up. This is the postsea­son. This is not the regular season anymore." 
He also made a sliding catch of Juan Gonzalez's liner to center field with two on in the third inning. 
"I didn't think I had a shot at it," Williams said. "At the last minute, the ball stayed up longer than I had antici­pated." 
Williams, seeming distract­ed by his impending free agen.,y, was 0-for-11 against Texas in last vear's series and 9-for-48 (.188) in the postseason. Ile nearly signed with Hoston before th11 Yankees upped their offer at the last moment in December, 
"Be's a special person, a special talent," Yankees man­ager Joe Torre said. "For him to have not o.nly the night be had tonight but the year he had this year, it's very impressive. The night he had tonight was unbelievable." 
Texas has just one run in its last 42 innings in the playoffs, all against New York, and has lost seven straight postseason games since beating the Yankees in the Rangers· first one, in 1996. 
"l don't care Yankee Stadium, Yellowstone Park, it doHsn't matter. We can score more runs than this by acci­dent," Hangers manager Johnny Oates said. 
After a day off, the series resumes at Yankee Stadium on Thursday. with Andy Pettitte (14-11 J pitching for New York against Rick Helling (13-11). 
Last year, when New York came off its rocord 114-48 regular season and nattened Texas in· a first-round sw~ep. holding the Rangers one run and a .141 average. 
This year, the Yankees' record slipped a league-high l6 wins to 98-64, creating doubt whether they wore strong enough tu win their third Series title in four years. 
But "El Duque" roped the Rangers an<l improved to 3-0 with a 0.41 ERA in postsea­son play (one run in 20 innings). Jeff Nelson followed with a hitless ninth. 
"They're all great hitters," Hernandez said through a translator. "Luck was on my side." 
While Texas has led the American League in hitting for two straight years, the Rangers haven't scored a sin­gle run in their last 22 post­season innings. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 \>.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES  Browse icpt.com for Springbreak "2000". ALL destinations offered.Trip Participants.Student Orgs & Campus Sales Reps want·  FOR RENT  FOR SALE  SELL & BUY GA FOOTBALL TICK· ETS 277-6619  2 ARIZONA GA'S FOR SALE. CALL KRISTEN @ 413·567·0841 .  
THE COPY SHOP  ed.Fabulous parties,hotels &  FOR SALE  2 ASU GA for sale. face value. 716·  
LaFortune Student Center PHONE 631-COPY www.CopyShopND.com Store Hours  prices.Call Inter-Campus 800·327· 6013  ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE HOME FOR ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  Spring Break Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise 5 Days $279! Includes Meals! Awesome  ASUtix. FACE VALUE AM · 232-2378 PM · 288-2726  667·6665. FOR SALE ND FOOTBALL TICK­ETS. ASU $47.50 ea. CALL 289·  
Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight  243-0658.  Beaches,Nightlife!Cancun &  8048.  
Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm Sat: Noon-6:00pm Sun: Noon-Midnight  REFEREES REFEREES NEEDED FOR BAS­KETBALL & INLINE HOCKEY.  HOMES CLOSE TO CAMPUS http://mmmrentals.homepage.com/ 232-2595  Jamaica 7 Nights From $399! Florida $129/springbreaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386  ND football !ix for sale. AM · 232-2378 PM · 288-2726  PERSONAL  
LOST & FOUND  THIS IS A TREMENDOUS OPPORTUNITY TO EARN GOOD MONEY, MEET NEW PEOPLE, &  THAT PRETTY PLACE,  FOR SALE N.D. FOOTBALL TIX  BUYING and SELLING ND FOOT­BALL TICKETS. GREAT PRICES. CALL 289-8048  Gay, Lesbian and Bisexual students of ND/SMC meeting each Thurs. For info call:  
FOUND: CHANGE PURSE ON SMC CAM­PUS ON MONDAY, 10/4. CALL 631·5873 TO IDENTIFY.  HAVE FUN! EXPERIENCE HELP­FUL, BUT WE WILL TRAIN EVERYBODY. CONTACTTHE RECSPORTS OFFICE-BRAN­DON LEIMBACH OR JEFF WALK­ER @ 631-6100, OR STOP BY  Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths. $80­$115, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road Exit 11107, 1­800-4 18-948 7.  CALL 271-9412 · FOR SALE fll.D. FOOTBALL TIX CALL 271-9412  FOR SALE N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS CALL271·9412 SPRING BREAK 2000  (877)631-6OUT Quality Copies, Quickly! We're open early. late, & weekends. THE COPY SHOP  
Silver and Gold Crucifix found between Flanner and Fire  THE OFFICE IN THE ROLFS SPORTS RECREATION CENTER  LOADED  Phone Cards, 669 min/$20 243-9361 or 258-4805  "THE MILLENIUM" A NEW DECADE...NCE·IN TRAV·  LaFortune Student Center Phone 631 ·COPY  
Station. Call 1-51S1 to claim.  TODAY. REFEREE MEETINGS WILL TAKE PLACE JN THE ROLFS SPORTS REC. CENTER MEET·  6 Bedrm '00-01 yr. 273·0482 I 234·3831  Beautiful brass bed,queen size.with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe  EL.FREE TRIPS,FREE MEALS!JAMAICA,CANCUN,FLORI DA,BARBADOS,BAHAMAS.SIGN  Quality Copies, Quickly!  
WANTED  ING ROOM ON WED. 10/6 AT 6PM FOR HOCKEY AND AT 7PM FOR BASKETBALL  Beautiful Home. 5 bedrooms. two bathrooms. Brand new stove, refrig­ frame.New.never used.still in plas· tic.$235 219-862-2082  UP BY NOV. 5 FOR 2 FREE TRIPS ANO FREE MEALS! 1800-426·7710  AUSTRALIA! SUMMER /WINTER/INTER­SHIPS/SEMESTER PROGRAMS  
STUDENT OPENINGS 5-30 hrs/week. Flex. around  Free One Bedroom Apartment in  erator. dishwasher, washer and dryer. Alarm. Attached garage. Fenced yard. Immaculate condition.  MAC 520 Powerbook-Y2K compli­ant-$350. Stylewriter printer $75. Both seldom used. 287-7928  WWW.SUNSPLASHTOURS.COM BIG IRJSH CATHOLIC  www.sludy·australia.com Contact chris@study•australia.com  
classes. Scholarships avail. www.workforstudents.com/IN 282-2357  Historic Home 1.5 miles from Campus. A family with three children seeks fun.energetic.outstanding student  675.0776 8 bedroom house. 2 baths. Completely renovated. ND Ave.  Computer parts. Compute[ service.  FAMILYINEED 16 GA TIX FOR use GAME!CALL DAVE @ 773. 281·7690 OR 610·971·2295 WITH ANY TIX.THANKS.  Jeanine, here's one for you. Yeah, Shannon's cut off.  
or graduate to hve in charming  675.0776  Fast, friendly, cheap.  I swear he's the most boring man in  
DON'T WORK THIS SCHOOL YEAR! $1200 TO $2000 THIS MONTH. Part time 4 to 6 hours per  apartment for FREE in exchange for mutually agreed upon babysit­ting  516 BDRM HOMES."00-01YR 272­6551  220-7633 220•7734. www.247so1ution.com  WANTED:USCTIX 247·1659  the world. Plus a liar.  
...  week. Call 24 hrs (219) 239-6709 SPORTS CLUBS & STUDENT  responsibilities that include some evenings,overmghts,as well as trav­el.Send cover letter.resume and ref­erences to Nanny Search.P.O.Box  6BDRM$150 person.272·6306 BED AND BREAKFAST  85 OLDS CUTLASS GOOD LOCAL TRANSPORTATION $750 OBO 675-9735  ND MOM NEEDS 11 ARIZ. STATE GA'S. PLEASE CALL 1 ·800-447-1200, THEN PRESS 2-2242. CALL WILL BE  It's live! It's rock & roll! Come see Art &  
GROUPS-Earn $1000-2000 with easy CIS Fund event.No sales required.Fund Rasier days are 1illing up, so call today.Contact Joe @ 1-888-522­4350. Loving ND-SMC couple wishes to adopt. Will provide a lifetime of  852,Notre Dame,IN 48556. TUTORS needed for college & high school students in Algebra & Intermediate Algebra. Also need tutors for general help/review in Eng.,Sociology, Psycliology. Call Linda at 272-8235 or email-lwaelch·  Your "home away from home·• for football and other ND events.Private home 5 min. from campus.Queen & twin beds.private baths,& extras. Call 219-272-9471. Sublet: Roomy one bedroom  89 Plymouth, Sundance Milage 96 k, excelent conditions. $1650 or best ofter. TICKETS  RETURNED ASAP. Need sets of two or four tickets for Navy or USG games. Call Brian at 634-3346. FOR SALE: ASU TIX. 271-9331  the Artichokes This Friday, 1 0pm at Heartland Hey Observer, I was here last night. Where were all of you? -Revers  
laughter,love.devotmn and opportu­nities. 800-484-4699 code 0019 TO OUR 4 AM INQUIRER: ALL INFO KEPT IN TOTAL CONFI­DENCE. PLEASE CALL BACK  li@datacruz.com WANTED IMMEDIATELy someone to help wheel-chair bound woman  Campus View apartment: $385.00 monthly. Call Stacy at Campus View or John Hill at 683-5699 days; 616/782·3314. ENTIRE HOME FOR FOOTBALL  Need tickets for USC? Call x4785. I have Arizona GAs and hotel rooms. Call Dennis at 914-654-9200  NEED FOOTBALL TIX FOR ARI­ZONA GAME. CALL JACK AT 219-257-1141.  Hi mom! Hope creme-de•la•creme is okay. Love ya. Mikey Buongiomo. Principessa!  
ANYTIME. OUR PRAYERS ARE WITH YOU. Nude Male models needed for stu­ w/ hOusewrk, errands, and light yardwrk. 4-8 hrs/ wkend @$7/hr. Hrs & Sat. vs Sun. negotiable. Pis call Linda @273-?045(day) or  WEEKENDS 2773097 NICE FURNISHED HOMES FOR NOW OR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR  WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT­BALL TICKETS 271-1526  Fo1 SALE 2 tixs all games 272• 6306 2 STUD. TICKET BKLTS 4 SALE.  Now if you could have that filled out in triplicate for me by Thursday. that'd be great  
dent Art film. Mere: 247-1810  616·663-2573(eve).  2773097  CALL X3941 OR X1208  Hey erin. how's MC?  

.--------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, October 6, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NATIONAL LEAGUE DIVISIONAL PLAYOFFS 
Astros take first gaine in divisional series against Braves 
Associated Pren 
ATIANTt\ 

For 11w lloust11n Astros, it was a p11siliv1l start towartl ending a ltisl.ory of postsnason liops. For lhn Atlanta Brav1is, it was a troubling r1m1indur ol' previous (ldolJPr shortfalls. 
Daryle Ward hit. a linbrnaking holll(lr in llrn sixth off Greg Maddux and Braves-killer Ken Caminiti clinched it with a l11r(1c-ru11 shot in Lhr, ninth as tlw Astros ddcat('(l Atlanta 6-1 Ttwsclay in Gamo I of the NL divisio11 sPries. 
"Thn guys should bn more rf'lax,icl now," llouston·s Jeff llagw11II said. "But we'v11 got to b,~ l'ard'ul not to get too carried awav about this." 
Tl;n BraVI'S havn made an Lrnprnccd1111tnd eighl straight playoff appearances, with only OIH' World Snri11s title to show l'or it. Now, lhey'v1\ got to win Lhrt•P of' thl' rwxt four games against I louston. 
"Tlw nuosP lightens a little quid.:l'r in th,\ short sl'ries." ChippPr Jones said. "!l's impor­tant for us all lo bring our 't\' ganws lo the ballpark tomor­row." 
1louston was a clear underdog against tfw pownrful Braves, having lost six of' seven meeting during tho rngular season. 
Atlanta clinched its division with a wePk to go, winning 11 of ils last I:l games. After a 12­ganw winning streak in Snptrnnlwr, llouston lost nine of its last 15. 
"Thi~ is a good foeling," Caminiti said. "Wn can hold our heads up a little bit tonight. But tnmnrrnw is anotlrnr day." 
Tlw ;\stros sealed the victory in tlw ninth with four runs 
.against reliover Miko Remlinger. 
Carl Everett had a sar:rificc t1y 
beforn Caminiti lrnuntflrl the 
Braves again. 
Playing for San Dingo, 
Caminiti hit a 10th-inning 
homer against Kerry Ligtnnberg 
to win the first game of the 1998 
NL <'hampiouship series. The 
Padres wont on to a 4-2 victory 
nvnr Atlanta. 
The East champion Braves 
lost only their second division 
series gamn since the format 
was instituted in 191)5. 13cl'orn 
Tuesday, tlrny wern 12-1 over­
all, including 10 straight victo­
ries. 
Houston, which clinclwd its 
third straight Central title on tlw 
final day of the season, has 
never won in !ivfl playoff series, 
including a 3-0 sweep by the 
Braves in 1997. The Astros 
won't get swept this ynar, seiz­
ing the home-field advantage in 
the best-of-5 serins. 
"Two years in a row, we lost 
the first game," Bagwell said. 
"This gives us tremendous 
momentum." 
The Braves led the majors 
with 10:1 wins but drow the 
smallest crowd in Atlanta's 44­
game postseason history. 
The turnout of 39,119 was 
nearly 11,000 short of capacity 
at Turner Field and easily 
eclipsed the previous low of 
42,117 for Game 1 of thn 1998 
NL championship serins. In the 
right-field upper deck, only a 
few dozen people occupied 
seven sections of blue seats. 
"It was certainly disappoint­
ing," Jones said. 
Game 2 is Wednesday after­
noon in Atlanta before the 
series shifls to Houston for 
Game 3 Friday. 
Ward, the son of former major 
leaguer Gary Ward, was 

seats against Maddux to break a 1-1 tie. 
"He's a great hitter, he really is," Bagwell said. "You've got to give him credit for working his butt off to become a good left­fielder. He could always hit." 
Ward's dad, by the way, hit .276 with 130 homers in a solid 12-year career but never played in a postseason game. 
"There's not too much of a burden on me," the younger Ward said. "No one is expecting me to do too much." 
The Braves managed seven hits against winner Shane Reynolds, who went six innings and allowed the lone run. lie pitched around Jones, walking the MVP candidate twice on four pitches, and three relievers fin­ished up with three hitless innings. 
The Astros went ahead in the second when Everett led off with a bunt single, Caminiti walked and Tony Eusebio drove in the run with a line drive up 
-
the middle. 
But Maddux escaped a bases­loaded, onn-out jam by pitching out on an attempted squeeze bunt by Reynolds. Caminiti, breaking from third, was tagged by Jones just short of home. 
The Astros loaded the bases again with one out in the lifth, but Caminiti grounded into a 4­6-3 double play. 
Thn Braves tied it in their half of the inning, Gerald Williams driving home Jose Hernandez with a two-out single to center. The Braves then loaded the bases, but Ryan Klesko struck out swinging on a 90 mph fast­ball. 
The Astros didn't leave for Atlanta until late Monday night, waiting at the Houston airport for the outcome of a wild-card playoff in Cincinnati. When the New York Mets beat the Reds 5­0, the chartered jct flew east. 
"It would have been nice to get here earlier," Craig Biggio said. "That's the way it is." 

·­
recalled from Triple-A New Orleans for the second time on July 20. He took over for the slumping Derek Bell and came through with two of Houston's biggest hits this season: a two­run homer against Cincinnati last week and a three-run dou­ble Sunday in a 9-4 victory over Los Angeles, securing the divi­sion title. 
On Tuesday, he came through again, hitting the first pitch of the sixth into the right-field 

Graduating college seniors are invited to apply for the 27th annual Pulliam 
Journalism Fellowships. We will grant 10-week summer internships to 20 journalism or liberal arts majors in the August 1999-June 2000 graduating classes. 
Previous internship or part-time experience at a newspaper is desired, or other demonstration of writing and reporting ability. Those who go through the Fellowships often find new professional opportunities opening up at other newspapers during and after the program. Wmners will receive a $5,500 stipend and will work at either The Indianapolis Star or The Arizona Republic. Opportunities for online training are available, along with reporting experience at our major metropolitan daily newspapers. 
Early-admissions application postmark deadline is Nov. 15, 1999. By Dec. 15, 1999, up to five early-admissions winners will be notified. All other entries must be postmarked by March 1, 2000, and will be consid­ered with remaining early-admissions applicants. Successful applicants will be notified on or before April 1, 2000, and will be asked to respond immediately with a letter of intent, at which time one-third of the cash grant will be mailed to the Fellow. 
lo request an application packet, visit our Web site, e-mail us or write: 
,__ Russell R Pulliam f 'Jf:m Pulliam Fellowships Director ~ Indianapolis Newspapers Wd, ,ire: ""'"'·,1.1rn,v;,,.n,m/r.rf P.O. Box 145 E-m,1il: pulliam(a, .1rnC\\,.l'um 
Indianapolis, IN 46206-0145 

IF DANCING IS YOUR THING THEN /CONN ON THURSDAY'S IS YOUR PLACE!! 
NO's own Corey "The Hitman" Hartman playing your favorite dance music every Thursday night. 
Doors open at 9:00 p.m. Free admission before 10:00 p.m. with College ID. $2.50 after 10:00 p.m. with College ID. 

-------~
..­

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, October 6, 1999 
AMERICAN LEAGUE DIVISIONAL PLAYOFFS 
Cleveland to face Boston's Martinez in opener 
Sounds great, right? Well, ging percentage. But in the past two years, it's going to be tough to get on Associated P'r~.:s everyone has a plan for The AL Cy Young is in the Martinez has treated Cleveland base, but we've got to look for 
CLEVELAND 

Pedro Martinez isn't worried about any new tricks the Indians might havP planned for him. Or lhal Cleveland was the first team in 49 years to score more than 1,000 runs. 
No, Martinez is just glad of one thing -he doesn't have to face the Florida Marlins this October. 
Winless against Martinez the past two seasons, the Indians have drawn up a new blueprint for the AL playoffs designed to defeat Boston's ace Wednesday night in Game 1 of the best-of­5 division series. 
-
They're planning to work Martinez deep into the count by fouling off good pitches, not chasing bad ones. They won't overswing. They'll run on the right-hander. They'll score early, stay close and hope he wears down. 
"We know what we have to do," Indians shortstop Omar Vizquel said. 
Martinez. Then they have to step into the batter's box. 
''I'll see what they bring up to the table," Martinez said Tuesday. "If it doesn't work for them, it might be too late. Somehow. I've got to stay in the strike zone and somehow they have to swing." 
And somehow the Indians have to try and beat the seem­ingly invincible Martinez and finally win a Game 1. 
Martinez, who will be opposed by Cleveland ace Bartolo Colon. was baseball's most dominant player this sea­son. In a year when softball­like scores became the daily norm in baseball, Martinez put up astounding stats. 
He went 23-4 with a 2.07 ERA, nearly three runs lower than the league average (4.86). He struck out 313 hitters in 213 1-'.-1 innings, walking just 
37. He held opponents to a .206 batting average, .247 on­base percentage and .289 slug-bag, and Martinez may win the league MVP award, too. 
"As a player I did not think that a pitcher should be the MVP," Indians manager Mike Hargrove said. "As a manager, I kind of feel the same wav. Pedro, though, may be the exception." 
Boston manager Jimy Williams, who played for St. Louis when Bob Gibson was in his prime and has been in baseball for more than 30 years. isn't sure he has ever seen anything like the year Martinez is having. 
"You realize what you're see­ing with this kid'? What he's doing with that ball?" Williams said. "Especially when the ERA in the American League is what it is. Especially when throughout all of baseball to have 20 homers today is noth­ing or 30, 40 or 60. He has that ability to take that base­ball and stop some awfully good teams." 
The Indians are one of them. 
like everyone else, posting a 4­0 record with a 1.83 ERA in the regular season and beating the Indians in Game 1 of the division series in '98. 
This season, Martinez start­ed four games against the Indians, going 2-0 with a 2.17 ERA and striking out 40 in 29 innings. 
But in his last start against Cleveland on Sept. 15, the Indians tried something new. They were more patient at the plate, swinging at the fourth and fifth pitches they saw rather than jumping on the first close one. 
Martinez still struck out 14 in seven innings, but he had to work much harder than usual and left a tied game after throwing 131 pitches. 
"I loved it." said Vizquel, who had three hits and had one 13-pitch at-bat. "The last game we hit him good. We got a lot of guys on base. We were relaxed at the plate, and we saw a lot of pitches. We know any mistake that he makes." 
Martinez knows the Indians may try the same strategy. That's fine, he said. 
"They're going to have to prove to me that what they're going to do is going to work for them," Martinez said. "Because I'm not going to change my approach. I do what I do against every team and against Cleveland. If they want to run, they can go ahead and run. If they want to hit and run, let them do their thing." 
Martinez hasn't lost since Aug. 19, and excluding a one­inn ing rolief tunlrnp last Sunday, has struck out at leasl 11 in his last eight appear­ances. 
The Indians don't scare him. Not as much as the Marlins, who finished with tho worst record in the NL yet chased him after 3 2-3 innings in July. 
"I guess they were the strongest team I faced all year," he said. "They got mo for nine runs." 

TV timeouts drown out student section 
Bizarre. 
This was not the immediate 

adjective that came to my mind 
after my first game in the Notre 
Dame Stadium press box on 
Saturday. 
Incredible, 
Ted Fox

exciting, 
emotional, 
interesting Fox Sports ... 
and good 
Almost

(as in good 
food) all 
summed up my initial take on 
the type of place where I hope to 
spend my productive working 
years. 
But, thinking back to that Saturday. now so long ago, I can't help but throw "bizarre" into that melee of adjectives that describe the experience known as the "Notre Dame press box." 
"Bizarre" is not an adjective that can be used to sum up the main thrust of the press box life, but rather a very small part of it, a part of it that involves two very distinct worlds of watching foot­ball colliding up above the field of play. 
These two worlds? Watching the game live in the stadium and on TV. At the same time (play scary music here). 
"What's the big deal?" you -say. "Why would that be so bizarre?" 
The answer can be found in the nature of the TV timeout and what it means for college foot­ball and sports in general. 
We all know the feeling of standing in the stands, seeing a changP of possession (or a touchdown, field goal, game timeout, injury or some guy eat­ing nachos) and then realizing any one of these reasons will almost always lead to the 'IV person starting a sentence this way: "VVhile there's a break in the action ..." 
That's when we get dropped into the black hole of the TV timeout, where time and space cease to exist, and people start singing those "Like a Rock" Chevy truck commercials. 
Finally, after what must at least be a good two-and-a-half hours, the coverage starL'i again and the game goes on uninter­rupted until one of these monu­
mental events takes place again. Or until three minutes has passed, whichever comes first. 
This, I'm guessing, is a whole lot worse for the players and coaches, as it repeatedly dis­rupts the flow of the game. 
It becomes a bizarre situation when you can see the TV com­mercials and watch the entire field at the same time. 
While everyone is up on their feet yelling and jangling keys and the defense is ready to make a goal line stand, everyone else outside the stadium is still listening to how good the Big New Yorker from Pizza Hut real­ly is. 
While the student section yells in a single, deafening monotone voice and the players line up for a kickoff, everyone else in the South Bend area is still being advised to "Play it Safe with Safe Auto". 
I sat up in that booth, helpless, wanting to yell out: "Save your voices! Save your emotion! Don't line up yet! There are still won­derful worlds of the new Super K-Mart that the viewing public hasn't heard about yet!" 
But no one would have heard -the stadium was too loud, the fans were too crazy, and the players were feeling the momen­tum shift. By the time it got quiet, it would have been too· late. And those people from Gap probably still wouldn't be getting enough. 
Now J'm not saying do away with the ads -on the contrary, they provide a lot of revenue fhr the TV network which in turn provides a lot of revenue for the school. Also, I'm sure the occa­sional break in play helps a lot of tired players get an extra rest. 
But the line has to be dra½11. 
Maybe someday it will be like the World Cup, and we'll have things like: "This change of pos­session brought to you commer­cial-free by Canon." Now that would be a little strange. 
But not nearly as strange as watching your classmates, both on and off the field, revved up for the next play that you know isn't coming because the rest of the world is still being taught "How to Speak Australian." 
If our delicious, flame-broiled double cheeseburger were any bigger, we'd need to buy more ad space. 
. ·-. 

, :•· .~:r 
~~~-.:.~,;N,:• .:::.,,.,•,.;;,1;,..,l.,~,:c;'.i;..,::;,,;i;l__ 
N ;tl1111g tic.its our h1g, juicy Doubk ( '.hecsehurgcr. It's got the ?:reat taste offlame hr01!mg anJ In-7SL1i, 1w H\' beef than Mc [)on;ild's· Chceschurg,-r 
1Pnce anel ra'l1c1p:i1101• ,,,,.; vary I 
l he Huddle LaFartur.e S!1..,.1t,.1q·•1 Cf-r•ter 

It just tastes better. 
,l: 'I,.•,, \,..·:41·· 1''.<uqC~,-j, ,:. 
t'p •_; .. ' '.;I 1 • 'I' jlt+!'!!• -: ',I:, l,'1 
-----------W----_____WWW_,_ 
-.. w 

Wednesday, Occobt::r 6, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NHL 
Hossa scores twice, lifts Senators over winless Rangers 

2-1 Tuesday night. Mathieu Schneider, to preserve needed to win their fourth Avalanche 3, Predators 2 
Associated Prrss Lalime, filling in for the the Senators' second victory in straight at Madison Square Joe Sakic batted the puck in injured Hou Tugnutt, allowed two games. Garden. on a power play with 5:15 left only a power-play goal by Kirk Mr.Lean, subbing for The Rangers, who have for Colorado's second goal in a 
NEW YORK 

Kevin Stevens at 11 :14 of the injured Mike Richter, made 25 scored only three goals in minute as the Avalanche 
Backup goaltender Patrick 
third period. saves. three games, have lost two pulled out a 3-2 victory in their 
Lalime made 37 saves and 
LalimP made two key stops But he gave up a goal in the straight following their open­season opener over the 
Marian IIossa scored twice as 
after Stevens' goal, one on a final two minutes of the first ing-night tie as they played Nashville Predators on 
thn Ottawa Senators beat the 
breakaway by PBtr Nedved and two periods, allowing th,e their first home game of the Tuesday night.
punchl1iss Now York Hangers another on a point shot by Senators all the scoring they season. Nashville twice took the lead on Colorado, which was the last NHL team to play this sea­son. But the Avalanche answered each time by scoring within the next minute. The Predators took a 2-1 lead at 13:22 of the third pnri­od when Randy Robitaille, MVP of the AIIL last season, scored on a rebound of Scott ­Walker's miss. It lasted 24 sec­onds until Colorado's Jon Klemm tied the game with a wraparound under Tomas Vokoun's foot off an assist from Stephane Yelle. Sakic gave Colorado its first lead of the game 59 SPconds later when he knocked in the puck off a high pass from Chris Drury. The Avalanche, who were winless through the f'irst f'ive games last goal season, started rusty without Peter Forsberg, last year's leading scorer who is sidelined by offseason shoul­der surgery, an·d forward Adam Deadmarsh (hip). Nashville took the f'irst six shots of the game, but the Avalanche finished with :39 shots. Colorado is 13-4-4 in open­ers, best in the NIIL. 
You,ar~ uwi.tedto ai:teltd the, 
1999 Notr~ D~ 
unaut w'!f Ku:lv-Off' 
wednerday) Oct-ober 6 Irulv Courtyard t1± t/t,e, Morru lftl'v ­
7:00 4'.lft.l. 12:15~Ht,t. 4:30~Ht,t. 
Parking will be available in either the Bookstore lot or the Visitor's lot south of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies_ 
Foot½ Door PrizM and FtU-v 
-•
Be sure to watch for results 
T~ NDtr~ t,~ on campus-wide participation totals and weekly drawing winners on the official Notre Dame
1999 Unaed way ~n, 
United Way web site at 
www.nd.edu/~uway. 
A-~for 100% eampur P~fll 
-
.. 
• 
1. 
I 
I 
I 
I 
._..w 

--------------------------------~----------, 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, October 6, 1999 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 

BP looks to remain undefeated with win over Howard 
By RACHAEL PROTZMAN Spotts Writer 

undefeated Breen Phillips looks to secure another win as it faces Howard today. 
Howard (3-1 l returns to the field with one less player after losing quarterback Jill Veselik to a knee injury in Sunday's game. 
"We just hope to finish the season off strong," Howard captain Julie Wernick said. "We have restructured our offense and we're just going to go out and play hard." 
BP is 4-0 following a 13-6 win over Cavanaugh Sunday. 
Jessica Martin led BP defensively with two interceptions to stop Cavanaugh dri­ves. 
"Defense is crucial to our game," said BP captain Katie Leicht. "It's the defense that holds it off in the end." 
Offensively, freshman Karen Swanson leads BP. "She has scored a touchdown in prati­cally every game," said Leicht. 
The Babes, guaranteed a spot in playoff action. hope for a chance to continue their winning streak. 
"We are expecting a tough game," said Leicht. "Hopefully we'll be able to keep up the level of playing that we have and we're just hoping to pull off a win." 
Howard also looks to the playoffs after a 6-2 loss to Badin Sunday. 
"We're looking for:ward to the chance to the playoff," said Wernick. "And hope to win a couple more games before then." 
Cavanaugh vs. McGllnn 
McG!inn looks for its first win today when it plays Cavanaugh at 7 p.m. while the Chaos hopes to grab a Ylin for a better playoff seeding. 
McGlinn, which comes off a 13-6 loss to BP last Wednesday, are now 0-2-2 and hope to grab a couple of wins before the end of the season. 
"We're going to go all out," said McGlinn captain Jana Poscharski. "It's either tomorrow or nothing at all. We want a win so we're not gonna go down without a fight." 
Sophomore Mary Lenzini aided McG!inn against BP with an interception that led to the Shamrock touchdown. 
"We're looking to keep up with Cavanaugh and maybe even win one," said Poscharski. 
Cavanaugh, now 3-2, comes off a 13-7 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

FSU players accused of shoplifting 
Associated Press 

TALLAHASSEE, Fla. 
Florida State wide receiver Peter Warrick returned to practice Tuesday while authorities tried to wrap up their investigation into a $244 retail theft at a local. shopping mall. 
"There are some loose ends they [police] are out tying up," Leon County State Attorney Willie Meggs said Tuesday. "We have met with the police [and] they'll get back to us when they're done and some decision will be made." 
Scott Hunt, spokesman for the Tallahassee Police Department, said Monday that Warrick and receiver Laveranues Coles "are going to be witnesses or suspects." 
Meggs said no decision was likely until at least Thursday. The top-ranked Seminoles play Miami on Saturday. 
The 22-year-old Warrick is the team's lead­ing receiver with 36 catches for 508 yards and four touchdowns. 
"I don't like distractions," coach Bobby Bowden said Monday night. However, he wouldn't speculate on what action, if any, he might take against the players . 
However, the players sounded confident Tuesday they would be cleared of any wrong­doing. 
"We'll be all right," said Warrick, who con­ceded he is learning about the pressures of being one of the nation's most recognized col­lege players. 
"Everybody's watching," he said Tuesday. "When I'm doing good they talk about me. When I'm doing bad they talk about me. I'm just trying to walk a straight line and do what's right." 
While Warrick practiced Tuesday night, Coles did not. The 21-year-old Coles said he and his roommate answernd all police questions into their theft investigation of a tan hat and four shirts with a total estimated value of $244. The merchandise was apparently sold Sept. 29 to the players for far less money by a clerk being investigated by police and store security. 
"It's not like we grabbed clothes and ran out," Coles said. "It's not like that at all. Thev wanted to question us about some things. We went and answered some questions and that's it." 
Coles and Warrick were each arrested in 
1998 in separate incidents. 

loss to BP. 
"It was a very hard fought game." said captain Melissa Tacey. "We hope to play them again in the playoffs and who know what will happen." 
The Chaos look ahead to playoff action. 
"We're at the point we need to be for the playoffs," said Tacey. "We are peak­ing at just the right time. Every game we have played, won or lost, has been really close and we hope to win our last game to gain a better seed." 
Pangborn vs. Badin 
Badin looks to grab a second win and improve on its 1-2-1 record as it faces Pangborn today. 
Following a 6-2 win over Howard, Badin hopos for another. 
"We have suddenly been improving," said Badin captain Betsy Cavo. "Our defense has stepped up the past couple of games." 
The Phoxes are also 1-2-1 as they hope to improve. 
"We're going to have to play hard to keep up with them," said Cavo. "After Sunday's game, though, a lot more of our plays have worked and we're looking for­ward to facing Pangborn." 


Today's Preparation Determ;nes Tomorrow's Achie~ement 
As agraduating senior, you are preparing for your future. At Navigant Consulting, Inc., we too are preparing for your future... your future as amanagement consultant. 
Navigant Consulting, Inc. (formerly Peterson Worldwide) is a visionary international consulting firm, creating economic/information management solutions for our clients in the corporate, insurance, healthcare, government and legal communities. Here, we see the bigpicture... and so will you. You won't just work on asmall component of the project, you wfll be a vital member of across-disciplinary team affecting top decisions and impacting total business operations. 
We seek future graduates to join Navigant Consulting as Associate Consultants. You must be working towards an accounting, business, economics, finance, engineering or systems degree and have excellent communications skills, computerproficiency (especially in MS Office, Word/Excel/Access) and flexibilityregarding overtime and travel. 
Choose Navigant Consultin9... with us behind you, a great future lies ahead: afuture filled with achievement. We offer highly competitive compensation includin~ year-end bonuses, extensive benefits and great growth potential in adynamic environment that believes in you and your ideas. Please visit our website at www.navigantconsulting. com and look for us on campus this recruiting season. 
•Qn{ampus Informalion Session• 
October 6 at the Center for Continuing Education, Room 100 6:30-8:30 pm [All attendees will be eligible for the Palm Pilot raffle] 
*Resume Drop-Off through Career & Placement 
September 28 -October 9 
•Qn{ampus lnter1Jiews• 
October 29, 1999 


Navigant ~ 
CONSULTING, INC. Worldwide 
--· 7 
Wednesday, October 6, I999 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
.... 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish win against Jaguars, carry on three-gaD1e streak 

By KERRY SMITH 
Sports Wrirer 

The Notre Dame men's soccer team came away with its third­straight win Tuesday in a tough 
battle  against  the  IUPUI  
Jaguars.  
Sf'!nior forward  Ryan Cox's  

goal midway through the sec­ond half put Notre IJamc on top and securnd the Irish win to increase the squad's record to 6-4-1 on the season. 
"It was good to get one," said Cox. "They are a tough team with a dAGent record and they haven't g_iven up too many goals this season." 
In a defensive battle, the two squads had to fight for every possession l'rom 1.he start. The Irish backfield, led bv senior defender Matt McN·ew and 
READING -BOOKSIGNING -PUBLIC LECTURE By 
THOMAS KENEALLY 
(AUTHOR OF SCHINDLER'S LIST) 

READING AND BOOKSIGNING Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore Wednesday, October 6 4:00 p.m. -5:00 p.m. 
PUBLIC LECTURE 
"The Great Shame and the Triumph of the Irish 
in the English-Speaking World" 
Hesburgh Library Auditorium Wednesday, October 6 
8:00 p.m. 
(Keneally's visit is sponsored by the Australian Studies Program with the generous assistance of Dan and Mary Ann Rogers, Jack 
and Sliva Schuster, the Nanovic Institute for European Studies and the Keough Institute for Irish Studies) 
Gerick Short in goal, turned in 
another solid performance 
keeping the Irish on offense for 
most of the gamn. Consistently 
stepping up to the play, the Irish 
pickecJ off many Jaguar passes 
and grabbed loosn balls to 
retain possession. 
Dropping to 6-4-1, llrn 
Jaguars had trouble on olTensP 
trying to move the hall past the 
Irish midfield and finding Urn 
nPt, but played tough on 
dn!'f.mse. 
"They had many good playnrs 
on tlrn field and they playnd 
harcJ," said Cox. "A lot of' tlrn 
players arc locals so it was 11 
huge game for them. It's always 
a tough game when a team 
comes in with a lot of heart." 
Cox's goal at the 65:$6 minute 

-
mark broke open a scoreless 
game. Freshman fi>rward Erich 
Braun came up with a loose ball 
from the Jaguar defense and 
found Cox in the cnnter of the 
field. Cox broke loose down the 
middle and made two quick 
dodges to set up a one-on-one 
shot from the top of the box. 
Cox blasted the ball past Jaguar 
goalkeeper Armando Fornia to 
give the Irish a 1-0 advantage. 
Cox's lone goal proved to be 
enough for the win as the Irish 
recorded their fifth shutout vic­
tory of the season. 
The Irish had plenty of oppor­
tunities to add an insurance 
goal late in the second half, but 
failed to Gapitalize on any scor­
ing chances. 
The Irish outshot the Jaguars 
25 to 5, forcing Fcrnia to mme 
up with a big game for the 
Jaguars lo keep the IUPUI 
squad in the game. One of the 
best goalkeepers in the M.id­
Continent confnrence, Fernia 
made eight saves in the losing 
effort. 
The Irish offense, riding high 
after scoring eight goals in 
three games. is enjoying finally 
getting some results on attack, 
"It's a relief to start scoring 
more goals," said Cox. "We 
knew the offense would start to 
come along eventually so I'm 
not really surprised, but 
relieved that it's happening." 
Cox's game-winning goal 
marks his second of the season, 
as he joins a very short list of 
Irish players who have netted 
more than one goal on the ymir. 
Braun is the only other repeat 
scorer with five goals. 

Short turned in another per­­fect performance in goal, com­ing up with three key saves for the Irish. 
Short's similar performances during last week's match-ups earned him Big East goalkeeper of the week honors !'or the sec­ond time this year. Short has allowed only 12 goals in 11 games for the Irish, keeping the squad alive in many tough games throughout the season, 
Braun also earned Big East honors as he was named co­rookin of the week for his strong performances against Eastern Michigan and Syracusr). 
The Irish take thn field again on Saturday when they host Big East rival Providence on Alumni Field, 
Tuesday's win, coupled with the squad's increased potency on offense, has givr~n the Irish some confidence as they enter into a challenging second hall' of the season. 
"This game was good prepa­ration as far as tho Big East goes," said Cox. "It's good to got in a win before lrnading into a tough series of ganrns." 
Notre Dame's matchuµ with Providenct1 is the first of sevnn Big East games remaining on tho Irish schedule. 

page 20 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, October 6, 1999 
Global resources. Local presence. 
The fast tracl{ 

To maintain the stature of 
Warburg Dillon Read as the 
leading global investment bank, 
we only hire the best. After 
completing a rigorous training 
program, you'll join a strict 
meritocracy where responsibility 
is given early on and success is 
rewarded with a fast-track 
career in the forefront of 
global investment banking. 
In order to help you plan your future, representatives from our Sales and Trading Department will soon be visiting the Notre Dame campus for a company presentation. 
Date: Wednesday, October 13th Time: 6:30 pm
-
Location: Morris Inn Notre Dame Room 
Apply online at www.wdr.com 
* Warburg Dillon Read 
An investment bank of global intelligence 
Warburg Dillon Read is the brand name for the investment banking division of UBS AG and its investment banking subsidiaries worldwide. In the United States, Warburg Dillon Read LLC, a subsidiary of UBS AG, is a member of NYSE and SIPC. 
Warburg Dillon Read is an Equal Opportunity Employer 
-------------•-w•·••-•=----.----·---•-u..,______...,_,,,___,.__,. 
Wednesday, October 6, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS 
for 107 yards, and got the Irish Irish notes on the board less than two min­. Despite some execution
Davie 
utes into the game with a 10-problems with the option, Davie yard touchdown run. said "We're going to continue continued from page 24 
"The challenge is still the to run it because it makes peo­same whether we're 1-3, 2-3, 4-ple continue to defend it."
makn sornf~ plays. we don't 0," Davie said. "We have to play . Don't look for sophomorewin," Davie said. 
as well as we can play every backup quarterback Arnaz
G!'therall finished Urn game week to win. It's week-to-week. Battle to be inserted fur individ­wilh six r.atclws for 1:n yards it's kneping your Bye on that tar­ual series as in the last couple ofand a touchdown. 
get and just going back to those games. The coaching staff feltJackson completed 15-of-21 things that eitlrnr keep you or this was pul.ting too much pres­passes for 276 yards and two l('ad you to winning football sure 011 Batt:le to make some­touchdowns, !rncorning the first games. If we control it [the thi.ng big happen in just threeNotrP lhtmc qwirterhack to pass 
game] as good as we can, we plays. However, should thefor al lcust 240 yards in four 
can havr a bright future here." offense have scrious problems,straight gamns. lln also rushed 
BIOSPHERE 2: SEMESTER "ABROAD" Fall 2000 & Spring 2001 
Infonnational Meeting: 
Thursday, October 7th 4:45 pm1 126 DeBartolo 
Learn ahmn the newest ND Seri1ester "abroad·' program: 
Earth Studies semester at Biosphere 2 in Oracle, Arizona (offered in partnership with Columbia University). Unlike any other program offered to ND students! ~ 
_ ___ ..-w_..__.._w_,.;;-.,-p-.u...--'"?"'---~--w----r+W ::COS ?­
¦_..-.,. 


Notre Dame head coach Bob Davie argues a call with a refer­ee at Saturday's Oklahoma game. Davie held his weekly press conference yesterday to discuss Arizona State. 
Battle could be inserted as the playcaller. While no one running back has completely emerged as the "go-to-guy," look for Terrance Boward, Julius Jones, and Tony Driver all to split time with last week's leading rusher Tony Fisher in the Irish back-
page 21 
field. 
. 
Center John Merandi injured his calf in Saturday's win over Oklahoma. He is expected to play Saturday. 

. 
Raki Nelson is out at least four weeks with a torn ACL suf­fered against Oklahoma. 





E 
8 
t 
I 
~ 
--
... 


r-----........------------~----~-----~-.....,-~---------•-... ...=------~-~·-----~-...­
page 22 The Obsrrver . SPORTS Wednesday, October 6, 1999 

-
JOHN DAIL YfThe Observer 
Junior Anne Makinen {left) goes up tor a header in yester­day's game against Michigan. Makinen scored twice. 
Soccer 
_c_o_n_t_in_u_e_d_fr_o_n_1..::p_a..::g::....e_2_4___ ing down the left side only to sec her low shot turned away by sprawling Michigan goal­tender Carissa Stewart. "I think Monica Gonzalez was a key tonight, she helped to spark the team," Waldrum said. "That's what she does for us game in and game out." With that chance having shifted the momentum in their favor, the Irish moved to capitalize. Big East Offensive Player of the Week, Jenny Heft, corralled a loose ball near the top of the box, turned, and fired a brilliant shot into the bottom right cor­ner of the goal. Heft's goal, her ninth of the season, leaves her just four short of Gerardo's school record of 73. "Obviously any time you can get the first goal it's big," Heft said. "We had been possess­ing the ball for a while and it was important to convert." Michigan did not go down without a struggle. Just after being substituted into the game, senior forward Marie Spaccarotella tied things up, sending a beautiful. curling ball just over the outstretched hands of Irish goalie LaKeysia -Beene and into the top left corner of the net from 20 yards out. -
However, even several spec­tacular stops by Wolverine goalie Stewart could not pre­vent the Irish from grabbing a 2-1 halftime advantage. After seeing Stewart make sensa­tional stops off two corner kicks, Anne Makinen scored to give the Irish a lead they would never relinquish. Jen Grubb crossed the ball on a corner kick right to Makinen, who easily buried the ball to 
give her team a halftime advantage. 
"I always break to the far post on corner kicks," Makinen said of the goaI. .. Jen 
made a good cross, and l was in the right place at the right 
timfl." 
The Irish extended their lead almost immediately as play resumed after the inter­mission. Makinen notched her second score of the game, completing a splendid give­and-go from Gonzalez. 
Bolting up the middle, Makinen dealt the ball to Gonzalez who buried the ensuing pass from 12 yards out. 
Notre Dame's defense took over from there limiting the Wolverines to few scoring chances. When Michigan was able to mount a charge, Beene proved to equal to the task as she made several clutch stops to preserve the 
lead. 
Beene, however, possibly showing signs of fatigue, looked off her game at times. 
"She had some problems on a couple of clearances," Waldrum said. "There was that one she fanned on and dribbled 10 yards." 
Meotis Erikson capped the scoring and extended the Irish lead to 4-1 as she knocked in ball that had been dropped by Michigan keeper Stewart. 
The Irish will no doubt be looking forward to the two days rest they will have before their next game which comes Friday night at home against West Virginia. 
"We were tired," said Makinen. "After playing so many games in a row we need 
a break." 
The victory extended Notre Dame's win streak against Big Ten opponents to 37 games. 
VOLLEYBALL 

Irish fall to Wolverines in four 
By MATT OLIVA 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame volleyball team dropped its match to Michigan last night 
The Wolverines defeated the Irish in four intense games 15­11, 8-15, 15-10, 15-10. 
The first game saw Lhe Michigan take a quick 7-1 lead. The Irish were able to fight back to bring the score to 9-5, and eventuallv used a 6-1 nm to take the ·1ead at 11-10. However, the Michigan defense tightened up to hold the Irish scoreless for the rest of the game and give the Wolverines a 15-11 win. 
ln game two, the Irish came out quickly to grab an 8-0 lead. After pushing the score to 13­
L. Notre Dame surrendered seven unanswered points to Michigan. Finallv the lrish were able to put Michigan away by the st:ore uf 15-8. 
The Irish never had a signifi­cant lead in the final two games. They had tu continually rally from behind to keep the games close. 
In Game 3, the Irish had the game tied at 9, but were unable to put pressure on the Wolverines and lost 15-10. 
In the final game, the closest the Irish came to challenging for the lead, was when they trailed by two points. 10-8. '\1ichigan was once again able to prevail for the game and eventual the match victory. 
The loss moves Notre Dame's overall record to 8-4. With the win Michigan improves to 9-4 on the season. 
The match also saw the Irish involve more players into rota­tion. Juniors Jo Jameyson and Adrienne Shimmel each saw significantly more playing time. Jameyson contributed four kills off the bench. 
"We use these different line­ups in practice, so we are familiar with them, but just haven't been using them in the games very much," said Irish 
CJmbracing I.he season, 
while indulging in the festivity of the harvest. 
Presenting menus that complement the fall season with the finest foods it has to offer. Be our guest )H Sorin's and celebrate a change in dining. isit us within The Morris Inn. 

head coach Debbie Brown. "We Mary Leffers finished with a used Jo in the middle because match-high eight blocks for the she was able to bring us more Irish, as Notre Dame out­offense, and Adrienne helped blocked the Wolverines as a in the back row." team 14 to 8. 
The Wolverines had 69 kills "We need a lot of improve­against the Irish, led by Sarah ment," Brown said. "Our Behnke's 19 and Nicole defense was not good at all and Kacor's 18. The Irish did have had no digs. We buckled when three players in double figures the game got tough. I take for kills, but had seven fewer responsibility for the loss, I did as a team than Michigan. The a poor job preparing our team. Wolverines also finished with With the talent we have we more digs and assists for the sho~ld be playing much bet­match. ter. 
-.--------------------..-,=-----------------------------~--.,..._____......,_,.......________________ 
Wc:dnesd:iy, October 6, 1999 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
..
TOM KEELEY
FOURTH AND INCHES A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM 

-5oE 1 :J: FIN~ -ri.,.._T If' :I: 
Wi¼tt M'< c.t.oi'IH:S. !..ATE 
M ~l<a'.\i, :i:. C.A",i L~T 
~/1'1 D~ 1P DRY l tv i'\.Hi: ;i,l\ov.1,e11., '-oa..., I\Nl) NOT 1-11\\IE 10 PA.'( ,c U~E 1" 
l)R'\'\;'R. 

Fox TROT 
:( MEMJ Ne ON~ IJS~S :t:Mt.611\Jc ""IBE ()l.Vf\.RifRS J" ::.AM '.:I: l Ov1.., C) SI\VE HJ ON\:'. MONT\~ At..ONE .' 
BILL AMEND 

OK, fox, LET'S SEE HOW WELL Yoo CAN TAc:l<LE. 
I 
HI6GINS, TR'< To RVN THAT BALL PAST PETER HERE. I '5TILL \ HA.VE kNEES? 
CROSSWORD 
29 Joe's lands? 62 Sly character
ACROSS 34--demots 64 Bad lands? 
1 London Fog, (pun) 67 Slicker in the e.g. 
35 Feds winter sMult1genera­

36 Looked with 68 Superior's
tional story 
desire inferior 9 Betray, in a way 
38 Makes a scene? 69 Gold medalist 14 Up to the task Lipinski
40 Largest 1sZippo Cornhusker city 70 Insinuate 16 Play hard to get 42 Have on 71 Dummy 11 Sage lands? 43 Hotel Bible 72 Command to a 19 Torments 45 Peewee people boxer 20 Barfly's roost, 47 One of the "Little perhaps Women" DOWN 21 " .. blackbirds, 
48 Dieters· lands? 1 Crow calls
baked in--" 51 Last name in cruelty 2 Parting words
23 Professional suffix 52 Took note of 3 Plus 24Doa 53 Pal, rapper-style 4 Make mad post-laundry job 56 Spot in the s Env. stuffer 21Poet~St. 
Senate 6 Hole number 
Vincent Millay sa Arab emirate 7 Inspiration a Comics ghost 9 Money coming 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE in 
----.----.-,-, 1o Ancient greeting Puzzle by Nancy Salomon 
O S H 11 It has a N T O prominent horn _,..::::1-::::1-:-:-t-=-t:=-•.-:-+-'+c.:.+;._1+.;Sc; 12 Words from 55 Forget about 63 Emmy winner
of R E Wordsworth 33 Tailor's joints Arthur57 Dangerous
13 Catbird seat? 34 Bender 
charger 65 Free

18 On high 37 Like some 
59Gosailing

22 Star worship humor 66-­39 Uses a Singer 60 Gillette product Speedwagon
2sStand buy 
RR~l-'--t 26 Consider 41 Crossed fingers symbolize it
28 Once again Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
44Somewhat
29 Mr. Rhodes of 
are available by touch-tone phone: Rhodes 
46 Like rye, usually 
1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute).scholarships 49 Kidded around 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 
A L E 
---1---1---1----1----1 30 Better 50 Full-price payers best of Sunday crosswords from the last MES 
_____ 31 Biters 53 Sailor's stir 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

--------------------------------------------------------------~---~--~---­
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS what you had in mind. L1m1tation 
DAY: Stephanie Zimbalist, Brill and stress have caused your rela­
Ekland, Hafez al Assad tionship to depreciate. You'll have to 
Happy Birthday: The time has act fast if vou want to rect,fv the 
come to spread your wings and fly. problems. 000 · 
You' re on to something big, and if LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You'll be 
you believe in vourself and your . dreaming about unfamiliar territory. 
dreams, you can achieve all that you Mental and physical pursuits will 
set out to do. You have a very detailed lead to travel or learning about 
way of approaching anything you do, unusual sub1ects. You need a change 
"" 

and this will result in reaching the of scenery. Boredom will lead to 
highest level of quality along the way depression. 000 
Your numbers: 1, 14, 23, 36, 40, 47 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): It's lend money. You can make financial 
time to establish a solid, stable, loving gains, but it must be through your 
relationship. You can develop a warm own efforts. Don't offer to handle 
rapport with individuals who interest other people's money. They are likely 
you. Pleasure trips should be consid-· to get angry with you for the choices 
ered; you need some time out. 000 you make. 0000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20l: You SAGITTARIUS {Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
can make major career changes. Your partner will overreact if vou 
Praise those in higher positions. question their whereabouts or the,r 
Rewards for past performance will be spending habits. Include yourself in 
your ticket to a better position. Part-your partner's activities rather than 
nerships will be in your best interest condemn him or her for having 
00000 interests. 00 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Mix CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
business with pleasure. Not only will Don't let your emotions stand in the 
you get in the bosses' good books, but way of doing a good job. You will be 
you· re likely to find yourself falling in overly sensitive to personal critkism 
love with someone who has the same and must try hard not to retaliate 
interests as you. 00 unnecessarily. Focus on what you 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You have to do. 00000 
should be concentrating on yourself AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You 
and let vour family fend for them-will feel competitive today, but don't 
selves. You've neglected your own overdo it or exhaustion or minor in­
needs. Find ways to raise your self-jury will slow you down. Think twice 
esteem and pamper yourself. 0000 before you make purchases or spend 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Someone money on excessive entertainment. 
from your past may drift back into 000 
your life. Be reluctant to let things PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't 
pick up where they left off. You don't get involved in other people's dilem­
need your heart broken all over again. mas. It will backfire on you at a later 
000 date. You can make a difference if vou 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): explain things to youngsters. 000 
Changes at home will not be exactly 
Birthday Baby: Your diplomatic approach to life will help you win favors along the way. You are forceful by nature, but helpful and understanding to those in need. You are a wonderful mediator because of your great concern with honor and fair play. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
-
© 1999 Ln!n.•rsal Press Syndicate 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on peoplP and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name 

Address City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
-

,..-------------------~-~~---------------------------------------~ 

Blanked 
Irish captain Gerick Short and the Notre Dame defense shut down JUPUJ and lifted the Irish to a 1-0 victory over the IUPUI Jaguars. 
PORTS 
page 19 

O
THE page 24 BSERVER Wednesday, October 6, 1999 


FOOTBALL 
Irish look to stay turnover-free against Sun Devils 
Coming off a 34-30 win over . tum-building win. turnly 14 times. Against tlw game . By TED FOX 
Oklahoma. the Irish will look to While the team did not gain Oklahoma. the Irish had no The third objective, recording 
Sports W ,iter make it two in a row with a win . the momentum as early as turnovers. more big plays than your oppo• over Arizona State this week­hoped against Oklahoma, trail­"You can't turn the football nent. (which Davie defines as 
Notre Dame head coach Bob end. The Irish have set three ing 30-14 with 10 minutes to go over and win," Davie said. "The runs over 12 yards, passes over Davie stressed tlrn need of' play­goals heading into each game -in the third quarter. Davie said reason we did win was we 14), was also accomplished, as ing error-free football at gaining momentum early, elimi· "to our players' credit, from that didn't turn the ball over in the the Irish recorded 11 to the Tuesday afternoon's press con­nating turnovers and making point on, they executed, they sewnd half and Oklahoma did." Sooners six (including three ference. bigger plays than the opponent. made plays and we won." The touchdown that brought kickoff returns). 
Reflecting on the leam's 2-3 To varying degrees. Davie The next point on the agenda J\;otre Dame to within two at 30-"If Jarious Jackson didn't 
-
start this year, Davie said he, noted. the Irish accomplished all was turnovers, something Notre 28 with 2:37 to go in the third make some unbelievable effort the coad1es and the players three of these goals and walked Dame had struggled with quarter was set up by a Lee plays and Joey Getherall cloesn 't realize "what a fine line there is out of Notre Dame Stadium on through the first four games, Lafayette interception four min­between winning and losing." Saturday with a large momen-giving up possessions prema-utes earl.ier. the only turnover of see DAVIE/page 21 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Senior forward Jenny Streiffer crosses the ball in No. 6 Notre Dame's 4-1 win over No. 16 Michigan. The win pushed the Irish win streak over Big Ten opponents to 37 games. 
Makinen leads Irish over Wolverines 
By KEVIN BERCHOU Sports Writer 
It might not have come exactly the way it would have liked, but No. 6 Notre Dame will be satisfied with yester­day's 4-1 win over No. 16 Michigan. 
The Irish did enough to win but did not execute particular­ly well and looked sluggish and sloppy at times. Head coach Randy Waldrum was not enamored with his team's per­formance. 
"Any time you beat a. great program like Michigan you're pleased," Waldrum said. "I certainly wasn't extremely happy with the game tonight though. I thought we looked sloppy out there in parts of the game." 
While he acknowledged his team's play was by no means perfect, Waldrum pointed out that his squad still showed enough heart to defeat a very high caliber opponent. 
"We wanted to come out and show them that this was our home field and they were going to have a tough time knocking us.off here," he said. 
Neither squad was able to mount much of an offensive charge early in the first half. 
"I think what you saw out there were two teams really showing the effects of playing three games rn five days," Waldrum said. "They looked tired out there. You have to give credit to our defense though. They did a good job limiting them early." 
Despite battling elements of fatigue, the Irish were still able to create plenty of highlights. Notre Dame was finally able to create a solid scoring opportu­nity when junit:H forward Monica Gonzalez came streak-
see WOMEN/page 22 
VOLLEYBALL 
Belles fall in semis of tournament 
By KATIE McVOY Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's volley­ball team made it to the semi-finals in this week­end's tournament before losing to host DePauw at the DcPauw University Tournament. 
They ended the weekend with a 2-2 record. 
Saint Mary's started off strong, defeating Principia 3-0 in their opening match on Friday. 
The Belles lost their sec­ond match 0-3 to North Central, but came back to defeat Earlham 3-1. 
Saturday, during the semi­finals, the Belles dropped their match to DePauw, 1-3. 
Freshman Emily Nihill led the team with 34 kills on offense and 52 digs. 
"Emily is doing really well and she did do very well this weekend," Agnes Bill said. "She is adapting very well to the team." 
Bill was also an offensive force, adding 34 kills. Suzanne Martin led the team with four aces, while Angie Meyers tallied three aces. 
"We passed really well," Bill said. "Overall we played well as a team." 
Martin continued as the 11:iading setter with l 11 assists for the weekend. Julie LeBeau led the Belles in blocks with 15. 
Jayne Ozblot and Mary Rodovich also had 7 blocks each, and Meyer had 4 7 digs. 
The Belles will face Calvin College Friday night at 7:00 
p.m. 

... 
vs. West Virginia Golf at Calvin College Cross Country
l~ 
Friday, 7:30 p.m. at K.1Iamazoo College s~ Monday, I p.m. Benedictine Univ. Invite
SPORTS ltJ ltJ 
Today, 7~30 p.m. Friday, 3:.30 p.m. 
-ATA 
vs. Providence Volleyball vs. Michigan vs. Arizona Stare ~ Saturday, 7:30 p.m. at Rutgers Thursday, 7:05 p.m. ,'~ Saturday, I :30 p.m. 
.~

GLANCE • 
Saturday, 2 p.m. 





