

¦ Ger rips on how to stay warm during the 
¦ Striking Romanian coal miners clashed with riot 
Friday
winter, like caking part in the upcoming Lare 
police in a violent uproar in Coresri. 

Night Olympics. 
JANUARY 22, 
Scene• 12-13 
World & Nation • 5 

1999 
THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 72 WWW. ND.EDU/~OBSERVER 

Panel discusses racial climate on campus 
By BRAD UNTIEDT ences of being on campus for the first News Writer time. "It felt very comfortable be.cause 
Students and faculty alike reached an everyone was smiling and friendly," overflowing audience last night when said panel member April Davis. ";\ Dialogm· with Underrepresented Some students on the panel Students on Tlwir · Notre Dame expressed different feelings, stating Exp<'ricncn" brought Notre Dame's that interaction among different cul­racial relations to thP tablP. tures is often difficult. 
Ten studPnts of diverse ethnic back­"Everyone sits in their own separate grounds formed a panPl to talk about groups in tho dining hall, which is their personal cxpPrienccs and how something that I wish would change," thc y be Ii() v e s it u a ti o n s c o u I d b c said Tamnra Miyasato. improved. Several studrrnts discussed the 
Chandra Johnson, assistant to the uncomfortable feelings they experi­president, discussed the programs that enced when being the only minority in the University has in place to help nwet classes. They were expected to repre­the needs of tlrn students. sent their culture instead of just them­
"As a University, we an" \Vorking selves, which sometimes led to uncom­hard to create an environnwnt that is fortable situations. inclusive for all students," said "Part. of the problem is that the fac­Johnson. "Cultural diversity is a neces­ulty members have no experience in The Observer/Ernesto Lacayo 
sity and is taken very seriously here at teaching about multicultural topics," Tricia Sevilla, Tamera Miyasato and Jason Leung were among the many student panelists in Notre Dame." Thursday's multicultural discussion "A Dialogue with Underrepresented Students on Their 


Notre Dame Experience."

Students shared their own expcri-see PANEL/ page 4 
. .-. _. -. . ·..
* ·.-. . 
--.; . . ,? 
.,, . t .-: 

.., ~cws Writer remains today, "He didn't care about ple who \\'Or~.~d at the Uniyersity dur• the weather and went to work." ing those year;, also· lived at the Even though the Trojans of the When Father Sorin arrived he was Universily," saicl,l@nis BrO'Yri, assis~ University µf Southern California have captured by the majestic beauty of the tant directof of fu.:q\i,f. Helations: "If ·heen long-time rivals of the Irish, with landscape and decided to name the not, they certainly lived clo?e.i It was the first blast of arctic air, many Notre school after.his spiritual guide, Notre really a self-contained can1pus and Dame students wonder why they Dame du Lac. which means Our Lady there was no need to dose the school." passed up sandy beaches for frozen of the Lake. Along with Holy Cross The most recent schoo[closing tundra. Brothers. ·1ie· immediately began con­occurred Jan. 4 of this year, before the 
Rut there is reason behind the mad­struction on a large log dwelling to be student body was back to campus. ness: Despite 156 years of sub-zero located just cast of Father Badin's "Deciding whether to close the temperatures, the University has real­Chapel. University is a multi-faceted issue," ized Father Sorin's dream of Notre explained Brown. "With Notre Dame ·· 
ONCE UPON A TIME, THEY CAN­
Dame even in the absence of palm being the largest employer in the area.
CELLED SCHOOL FOR SNOW

trees. and with the decision affecting almo,st 
"Everything was frozen, yet tho In a school known for tradition, one 17,000 lpeople], it is really li~e shut­landscape appeared so beautiful," of the most frustrating is the adminis­ting a city down." wrote Father Sorin to his home com­tration's apparent lack of sympathy The University primarily takes into munity in France upon arriving in for inclement weather. Students know account safety and security, but also South Bend. "The lake, with its mantle that even. when DeBartolo is buried in looks to local school districts, busi­of resplendent white snow. was to us a snow, they should not expect a cancel­nesses, and the police for advice on · 
t symbol of the purity of Our Lady, lation of classes. how to handle the situation. ..)>: .. whose name it bears and also of the In Father Sorin's time, however, the "The decision is made in cottjtinction · purity of the soul which should char­policy was a lot more lenient: When he with the other agencies in the art<1., ", acterize the new inhabitants of these · started consttuctions on Notre Dame's. said Brown. "It becomes an issue of lovely shores," he wrote, as quoted in first building, work was soon forced to personnel as well as being an academ­University of Notre Dame: A Portrait of . an incomplete end due to the extreme ic issue, as these raise differ~n~ prtori­Its History and Campus, a history by weather. · ties." · Thomas Schlereth, prdfessoi:,. of ..... '{bJs tradition of stopping work, 

THE HEAT JS ON :

American Studies. · · because·.of cold-weather has since 
..f.or those somewhat familiar with become ~ rare occasion·. The earli~st Although South Benltwint~rs bavJ~-1~ pre-Notre Dame history, it is interest­school closing due to weather condi­remained basically unchanged in the ing that.f'ather Sorin did not stay in tions on record dates back to 1918. 156 years of Notre Dame's existence, southern Indiana, where he resided The University did not close again for about a year-and-a-half," said until 1977. see WEATHER/ page 4 
Group to march in D. C. for the 'Right-to-Life' 
By LAURA UBERTI 
News Writer 
Members of the ND/SMC Right to Life Club will march to stamp out abortion today at the March for Life demonstra­tion in Washington, D. C. 
Close to 240 students, the largest number of Notre Dame students to attend the march, are taking advan­tage of the opportunity to be part of a national Right-to-Life march and rally. Along with thousands from across the country, they will march on the 26th anniversary of the Supreme Court's Roe vs. Wade decision legalizing abor­tion. 
Nearly 230 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will gather at HFK stadium and proceed to a rally, which includes singers and speakers from various religious and political groups. 
Following the rally, the group will march two to three miles from Ellipse Park, located behind the White House, to the Supreme Courthouse. 
"This is the largest civil demonstra­tion any student will ever participate in," said Mario Suarez. a junior who attended last year's march. "It's mov­ing to look in front and behind you [while marching]. and you can't see the end of the people. You know they're there for a common belief. It's good to have a common bond." 
"The march itself is incredible," said Julie Fitch, a junior and member of the trip's planning committee. "People are singing or praying as they walk. It's so inspiring to go and stand up for this issue in such a peaceful way." 
This is the 21st year Notre Dame has participated in the march. With between 225 and 235 students expect-
see MARCH / page 4· 


page 2 The Observer• INSIDE Friday, January 22, 1999 

¦ INSIDE COLUMN 
Things wrong with my world 
Have you noticed lately that there is a large push toward Internet technologies going on in the outside world? Actually. we are all shut out from the outside world, so you may not know this, but for 
Mike Revers
the purpose of this 
Assisrant Sysrems 
article. go along with 
Manager
me. 
I can assure you that 
being an MIS major myself. I notice this leap 
in technology, maybe sooner than others, and 
usually with greater support than maybe my 
fellow students. 
However. it has come to my attention that 
most of this newer technology is pretty much 
useless. For instance, the cool new thing to 
do on the web is communicate with as many 
people as possible through things like AOL's 
Instant Messenger and Mirabalis's ICQ. Not 
only are these technologies pointless, but 
they are actually quite annoying. For those of 
you who are sane-and do not know what I'm 
talking about. these programs allow people to 
log in and have instant access to anyone that 
they assign to a specified list via online chat. 
Is e-mail not enough for all of us out there in 
cyberspace? 
Along with internet technologies. there are 
a lot of things in the real world that Ijust 
don't get either. Take the drive-up ATM for 
example: what is with the braille? Can any-­
one explain this to me? I just don't think that 
the world should have that many blind people 
driving around. It just seems unsafe to me. 
On to point two of the useless things: diet 
products that save virtually nothing in caloric 
intake, or fat intake. I can cite many exam­
ples of this. but the one that comes to mind 
the quickest is the example of Carnation 
Instant Hot Cocoa. The "Hich Chocolate" ver­
sion of this product offers 110 calories of 
which 10 are fat. The "Fat Free" version 
boasts a mere 25 calories of which none are 
fat. So, overall you save a total of 10 calories 
of fat and 85 calories of sugar. Now, does 
anyone see why this would be a necessary 
thing in today's society? I sure don't, in fact I 
probably burned those 95 total calories just 
typing this Inside Column. If you want my 
opinion, I think they just put less powder in 
the package. My proof: Fat free = .28 oz, 
Rich Chocolate= 1 oz. You be the judge. 
Finally, I feel the need to express some­
thing meaningful and sentimental that just 
does not fit with my view of the world: 
Hallmark holidays. What is with this? There 
are so many of these it is impossible to keep 
up. Guys you probably can relate with me 
more on this, as you may have been the ones 
that missed Sweetest Day like me. Again, a 
useless day that means one thing for me as a 
male: I am out 30 bucks for roses and a small 
gift. 
Which brings me to the point of this inside 
column. There is absolutely positively no 
point in the production of this column except 
this: Society is needlessly wasting our time 
with pointless ideas. And I am not even sure 
if that is much of a point in and of itself. 
Three things I do know, I am sticking to my 
e-mail, fat-infested b.ot chocolate, and some­
thing traditional like Valentine's Day. Which, 
just to help all my fellow counterparts, is on 
the 14th of February. 
-
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
¦ TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Scene  
Christine Kraly  Loubel Cruz  
Noreen Gillespie  Graphics  
Brad Untiedt  Joe Mueller  
Sports  Production  
Mike Connolly  Noah Amsredter  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Eddie Llull  Joe Stark  

The Olmrvcr (USPS 599 2-4000) i, published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhc As~iau~d Pres,. All reproduction right, arc rc>ervcd. 




utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Alcohol consumption remains stable on college campuses 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 
publicity and behavior. 
In the wake of several highly publi­"There is not a direct causal rela­cized, alcohol-related deaths, many tionship. There are so many more students may be surprised to learn factors. Peer pressure is a larger that alcohol consumption among col­affect than media coverage," lege students has remained relatively Valentino said. stable on campuses throughout the Students aren't likely to adjust their country. social behaviors only because they 
"We know that drinking has not read about an alcohol-related death, increased over the past two decades," he said. John Schulenberg, senior associate prevalent in the media. Since October, at least four stu­research scientist at the Institute for The same phenomenon appears in dents in Michigan have died after 
Social Research, said yesterday. the public perception of the crime drinking. Schulenberg added that although rate, said communications studies In October, LSA first-year student Prof. Nicholas Valentino. 
alcohol-related deaths and accidents Courtney Cantor died after falling have not necessarily increased, the "Crime statistics are decreasing, from her sixth-floor window. Cantor media's coverage of them has. but public opinion states that crime is had been seen drinking at a Phi Delta 
Schulenberg, a psychology profes­increasing," Valentino said. He attrib­Theta fraternity party prior to her sor, said teenage alcohol consump­utes this to an increase in media death. tion 10 or 15 years ago was greeted attention to crime-related news. Michigan State University student with a wink and labeled a rite of pas­Valentino said media plays a direct Bradley McCue died from alcohol poi­
role in the way people view the
sage. Now the dangerous effects of soning in November, after drinking underage drinking are becoming amount of alcohol abuse, but he said 24 shots to celebrate his 21st birth­he does not see a correlation between
more well-known and are more day. 
¦ UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN FLORIDA Plea registered in discrimination suit 
TAMPA, Fla. 
USF registered a plea yesterday in district court responding to a religious discrimination lawsuit filed by two former university employees. Dr. Steven Gross and Dr. Robert Urban, along with attorney John MacKay, are waiting for several parties to file so they can attempt to pursue a jury trial. The parties include USF; the Board of Regents; President Betty Castor; Martin Silbiger, vice president for Health Sciences; Marvin Dunn, former vice president for Health Sciences; and J. James Rowsey, for­mer chairman for the Ophthalmology Department. Gross, who is Jewish, and Urban, who is Catholic, both claim they were denied privileges in the Ophthalmology Department while Rowsey was chairman, because of their religious orientation. The plaintiffs claim that top university officials were aware of the alleged discrimina­tion by Rowsey, a born-again Christian, and did nothing to stop it. 
¦ UNIVERSITY Of CALIFORNIA-BERKELEY Minority enrollment declines 
BERKELEY, Calif. 
The number of black, Latino and Native American stu­dents seeking admission to next year's freshman class at UC Berkeley has dwindled to its lowest number in recent years, UC officials announced Wednesday. The decline in underrepresented minority applicants comes in the se.cond year of the implementation of Proposition 209, the voter­approved measure eliminating affirmative action in public institutions. The drop in applicants has left UC Berkeley officials disappointed and determined to reexamine and boost their recruitment efforts, the officials said Wednesday. "There have been annual fluctuations in the past, but that by itself is not sufficient for us," said campus spokesperson Jesus Mena. "We are not satisfied when the numbers drop, especially after what happened last year with the first time Prop. 209 was implemented." As a result, the campus intends to implement immediate plans to reexamine and heighten recruitment efforts. 
¦ MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY TV cameras in bar evoke controversy 
EAST LANSING, Mich. 
The use of undercover cameras at a local bar has some patrons upset, while those who did the taping maintain it provides an accurate picture. A Jan. 14 episode of the CBS TV news magazine "48 Hours" used hidden cameras at Rick's American Cafe. The show included a ten-minute segment on high-risk drinking at MSU. Undercover cam­eras were used to follow up on the death of parks and recreation junior Bradley McCue, who died after a night of binge drinking at Hick's, said Reid Collins Jr.. "48 Hours" senior producer of the binge-drinking episode. "We want­ed to go back to the place where Bradley McCue had been drinking," Collins said. Collins said the hidden cameras exposed binge drinking at the bar. "Two weeks after Bradley McCue died of alcohol. there was a woman doing the same (thing} -drinking the same number of shots on her birthday," Collins said. McCue reportedly drank 24 shots to celebrate a 21st birthday. 
¦ UNIVERSITY Of IOWA Clinton, students agree about sex 
IOWA CITY, Iowa 
As the struggle to define sex continues to hover over the impeachment proceedings, it appears that the president has at least one group agreeing with him -college stu­dents. And some UI students say they concur. According to a 1991 study that was published in the Journal of the American Medical Association last week, a majority of col­lege students have a similar definition of sex to the famous one drafted by the lawyers for Paula Jones -the defini­tion under which President Clinton famously said, "No." Of the 599 students surveyed, 59 percent answered "No" when asked. "Would you say you 'had sex' with someone if the most intimate behavior you engaged in was oral­genital contact," according to researchers with the Kinsey Institute for Research in Sex, Gender and Heproduction. In the past year, Clinton's lawyers have defended him against charges he lied in his deposition in the Jones law­suit when he denied having sex with Jones. 
¦ SOUTH BEND WEATHER 5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather<&forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures  ¦ NATIONAL WEATHER The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Friday, Jan. 22. 20s Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 40s · • · >,;.r-7;;:.,.;-;-.---.:-----_!\ ' 1 1',-" · ··· 30s ,., . ..... :...  
'Friday Saturday  ~ ~ ,,,,,  48 44  42 43  ®  
Sunda~ \Monday Tuesdayf' )',.\(•··,....··  ';;'  Q. 32 . ·:· ·:· Ll 32 ~ 27  27 23 14  20s C 1999 Acc:uWeather, Inc. P,,..un: ® co High Low Showers  <::. 70s ~"3;;, sos ---V--70s Rain T· ¦ torms Flurrie•  Snow  • •COLD Ice  FRONTS:•• WARM  •• •STATIONARY  
~,~-~4-~Q (f Showers T•storms Rain Flumes Snow Ice Sunny V,a A5SO(;ia/ed Press Grspt11csNe1  ~ Pt. Cloudy  ~ Cloudy  Atlanta Austin Baltimore Boston Chicago  54 52 44 34 42  65 67 59 43 47  Cleveland 41 Denver 26 Hartford 34 Indianapolis 47 Madison 34  54 43 40 57 36  Miami 70 Minneapolis 29 New York 43 San Diego 49 Santa Fe 20  80 33 50 58 44  


Friday, January 22, 1999 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS page 3
--------------------~------------­
"Later on, we 'II conspire, as we sit, by the f;re 11 

The Observer/Joe Stark 

Freshmen Brian Stonelake (left) and Josh Mayo relax in the lobby of Morrissey Manor. The fireplace shown is one of many still on campus, but is not in use due to risk of fire damage. The cold winter months draw students inside to seek refuge from the temperamental South Bend weather. 
WANT TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE IN THE LIFE OF A CHILD THIS SUMMER? 
COME FOR A JOB INTERVIEW TO WORK AT: 
CAMP SWEENEY 
A RESIDENT/AL SPORTS CAMP IN NORTH TEXAS FOR CHILDREN WITH DIABETES 

INTERVIEWS FRIDAY, JANUARY 22nd FROM 9:00 AM to 5:00 PM IN THE LaFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
Camp Sweeney is an equal opportunity employer. 
Ten reasons you'll want to worl~ for us. 
I. OAK BROOK BANK. with over a billion dollars in assets. is already one of the largest and fastest growing commercial banks and investment advi­sors in Chicago's west suburbs. Oak Brook Bank is owned by First Oak Brook Bancshares. Inc .• a dynamic. publicly-traded company (whose sym­bol is "FOBBA"on NASDAQ). 
2. 
CHICAG0lAND IS ONE OFTHE BEST URBAN AREAS in America to live in. with great apa1trnents at reasonable rents. superb restaurants at afford­able prices. and world-class sports and cultural activities. We even have the Bulls and the Bears -just like Wall Street. 

3. 
YOU'LL WORK \'1-IERE YOU LIVE. Ourclients are nearby. You won't spend four days a week on the road. living out of a suitcase and eating room service food. Travel for us usually means a hop down the expressway. 

4. 
YOU'LL PUT IN FULL DAYS. and though you'll work hard. you won't have to bum the midnight oil every night or give up your whole weekend. So you'll have time to enjoy life in a great city. 


5. Y0UCANSEEY0URW0RKMAKEADIFFER­ENCE. In a business our size you're always near the action. so it's easy to see how your efforts con­tribute to results. And you don't have to suffer the frustration of getting lost in a multilayered bu­reaucracy. 
6. WE OFFER CAREERS. not transitional jobs. Our management trainee positions are pathways to permanent assignments in commercial lending. investment management. information technology. or retail banking. We don't believe in hiring people for two or three years. then strongly en­couraging them to leave for business school. 

7. 
IF YOU WANT TO STUDY for an advanced business degree while you work. we can help with tuition. In truth. we'd need your full attention dur­ing your first year with us. But. after that. you may apply to any of the many excellent MBA programs in the area offering executive MBA programs nights and weekends. including the world-famous Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University and the University of Chicago. 

8. 
WE OFFER F1RST-RATE TRAINING. Typically. our management trainees get two or three rota­tions in different areas of the bank. with each ro­tation lasting three to six months. so you 'II get a wide variety of hands-on assignments. We also provide supplementary training in classrooms and seminars. both on and off site. 

9. 
WHILE YOU'RE LEARNING more about business intellectually. we help you learn more socially. too. We throw you right in with other people-senior officers. new business prospects. and customers. An<l we help you learn how to fos­ter and manage valuable relationships through networking and team building. 

10. 
IT MAY SURPRISE YOU. but we pay competi­tive salaries. Surveys tell us we pay like the money center banks. 


If you think you might be interested in a management trainee position with us. come to our infor­mation session in the 1-'t,eter Room, Lul<'ortune Stmlenl Center, Sunday, January 31, 5:00-6:00 P.!U. We"ll hold interviews !Uonday, Fehruury 1-sign up at Notre Dame Career ancl Placement Ser­vices on \Ve<lncstluy, January 27. 
Fin.t Oak Hrook Hanci.l1are!!>, Inc., HOO Sixteenth Street, Oak Hrook IL 60523. (~J0..()90-H,\J\K (fax 6:J0-571·0519). www.ohb.com. Member F'DlC. EOE m/f. 
Foreign crime rise could 

cause travel problems 
By JOCELYN ALLISON 
News Writer 
With spring break right 

around the corner, students 
may want to take extra care 
when wandering the streets of 
foreign countries, particularly 
certain parts of Mexico. In 
addition to the common crimes 
of purse snatching and late 
night muggings, taxicab crime 
has become more frequent and 
violent in recent years. 
Mere theft has escalated to 

severe beatings and sexual 
assault, and in December of 
1997 a U.S. citizen was mur­
dered during a taxicab rob­
bery. 
The danger occurs when 

unsuspecting tourists enter 
cars that are posing as taxi­
cabs, but really have criminals 
in the driver's seat. It is impor­
tant for traveler to be able to 
distinguish between a real taxi 
and a fraud. 
"The country itself has regis­tered taxis with an emblem on the side; they're going to be at official taxi stands at airports or hotels," Erin Moore, an Anthony Travel employee, said. Anthony Travel uses Student Travel Services [STS] to organize their trip packages. 
"In the four years that we'vc used STS we haven't had any incidents. No one's tried to sue STS; it's one of the more legiti­mate spring break programs for college students." 
Moore recommends negotiat­ing the cab fare ahead of time since drivers may try to charge more depending on how famil­iar a traveler is with the area. A representative of Spring Break Travel suggests travel­ers use the bus service during the day; it is cheaper and less risky. However, it is not recom­mended to travel on Mexican highways after dark. 
Yet if you must get a taxi, the safest way would be to tele­phone a radio taxi, or "sitio," 
and ask the dispatcher for the 
driver's name and the cab's 
license plate number. Students 
should avoid simply taking 
taxis parked outside nightclubs 
or restaurants, or those cruis­
ing around the city. 
"As far as warning people 

about crime, we can't warn 
everyone about every single 
city, but I did warn a group 
that is going to Mexico City and 
Aculpulco about the taxi situa­
tion," said Kayleen Carr, who 
is in charge of spring break at 
Anthony Travel. 
If students need to use an 
ATM machine, they should try 
to find one inside a protected 
building during business 
hours. Victims have been 
robbed and held captive while 
their credit cards were used at 
various ATM locations around 
the city. 
Carrying travelers' checks instead of cash, and keep your important documents and money inside a money belt are important ways of preventing theft. Students are also encouraged to not wear expen• sive-looking clothing or jewelry that can draw attention to yourself. 
Travelers should be aware of other kinds of danger as well. The Mexican military has reestablished authority in rural towns and villages, but there is still a rebel revoluationary presence in more mountainous parts of Chiapas. 
Occasional assaults have resulted from increased hostili­ty towards foreigners. and the 
U.S. Embassy urges Americans to exercise extreme caution, especially with military road­blocks in Chiapas, Guerrero and Oaxaca. 
"We haven't really had any problems with Cancun and Jamaica, which are our two major travel spots. As long as people stay in big groups and don't wander off alone, they should be fine," Carr said. 


Ct~·•"[R f'iJR

•!• $1700 tuition scholarship SOCIAL 
CONCERNS

•!• 
Valuable alumni contacts 

•!• 
3 credits Theology, with possible cross-lists 

•!• 
Over 200 sites across the U.S. and abroad 


January 29th -Application Deadline 
. . . . . , ' 
. . 

-, r ~ ,,,,,.._ .. _._ -• • .._ _, , •• , 
. , 
page 4 

The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, January 22, I 999 
Weather 
continued from page 1 
heating methods have improved drastically since the days of Father Sorin. . 
In the 1800's, the first build­ings on campus were heated through a large furnace enclosed in sand under the first floor, but the method proved to be a fire hazard and was aban­doned after two years of use. The administration then adopt­ed the use of stoves for heat, which caused fire problems when students adjusted the heat. 
Father Sorin indirectly caused a third fire himself, when he decided to replace the stoves in the rooms along the corridor of the main building with chim­neys. Within 10 days of the chimney installation. a fire broke out, convincing him to take out fire insurance, accord­ing to his records in "The Chronicles of Notre Dame du Lac." 
Fireplaces remained a main heating source for the University for many years and are still in use today. Though there are restrictions on using the fur­naces today, many older dorms on campus retained the fire­places that once served as the only respite from the cold out­side. 
Facilities operations requested that the fireplace in the common area of Morrissey Manor not be used because it becomes diffi­cult to determine who will then 
JV I !F
Pl
ease recyc e "'The Observer
~ ~ 

be responsible for its use if a problem occurs. There are also 
March

many fireplaces around campus which can be enjoyed, with most 
continued from page I

in private residences. Dillon Hall has seven, including four in the 
ing to attend, there are 
residences of Rector Paul Doyle 
approximately 100 more par­
and two assistant rectors. 
ticipants than last year, and a "There are no restrictions as marked increase from onlv 50 
long as the chimneys are clean," students two years ago. · said Doyle. 
"Jamie Kuhn and I went on 
The current University central the trip two years ago, and we heating system is run through decided we needed more peo­underground tunnels, explained ple involved,"said Josh Guerra,
Gary Shoemaker, director of 
the junior vice-president of 
Facilities Operations. Before this ND/SMC Right
system, each building had a 
to Life. "So 

boiler, which produced steam to 
last year and 

the radiator to produce heat. 
this year,

Carroll Hall is still heated 
Jamie and I 

through this method. "It is not 
organized the on the central heating system 

trip. With lots because of where it is located. 

of publicityThey never ran the [under­and hard 

ground heating] tunnels out 
work, the 

there," said Shoemaker. 
numbers 

Legs may be winter-pale for 
increased last 

most of the year and shorts may 
year and this 

only be worn for a short number 
year too. 

of days, but students continue to Word · of zip up their parkas and trudge 
mouth means 

through the snow drifts to har­a lot." 
ness the experience of Notre 
to make an impression on campus, but also to gain national attention. 
"Ideally, Bill Clinton will look out his window and say, 'What have I been thinking?'" said Suarez. 
Although the prospect of overturning legislation is slim. Guerra believes marches like these have made impacts. 
"They already have changed things," said Guerra. "Lines are drawn. People who care are saying something, and people in power are doing 
what they can 
to show it." 

'DEPRFSENTING NOTRE On a cam­
pus with "a
-".DAME AT THE MARCH IS 
stereotype of THE GREATEST WAY TO SHOW being apa­a nd
OUR CATHOLIC CHARACTERIS-thetic 
n o n 

TIC.' involved," Suarez sees this march as 
JOSH GUERRA a way to VICE-PRESIDENT OF ND/SMC make an 
"People go on this march 
Dame. And although students 
who aren't that involved in the 
often complain about the bitter 
issue," said Fitch. "But last 
cold and massive snow-drifts, 
year people got so inspired
Notre Dame's location helped to 
that they wanted to work for 
make it what it is today. 
the cause when they came 
"The proximity to Chicago, 
back. So we hope people will 
Cleveland. and Detroit, which 
come back from this weekend 
were full of Irish and German 
and tell everyone how great it 
Catholics, all helped to recruit 
was." 

students," said Schlereth. "The 
"I'm going to see what it's 
University would not have 
like and to learn more about 
grown nearly as fast if Father 
that side of the issue," said 
Sorin had stayed in southern 
freshman Winona Farias. 

Indiana where he began." 
Not only does the group hope 
RIGHT TO LIFE impact. "This 
is our oppor­
tunity to exercise our political voices, and it's a gift to be able to do so." 
.. Notre Dame is the flagship of Catholic education in this country," said Guerra. "Representing Notre Dame at the march is the greatest way to show our Catholic charac­teristics. 
"People look at us and see our banner, 'Irish Fighting for Life,' and they cheer us on. We make an impact on how people perceive the Catholic values." 
Panel 
continued from page 1 

said Tricia Sevilla. "This 
makes things difficult for both 
the students and the teach­
ers." 

The panel tried to outline ways to improve racial rela­tions on campus. Several of the members felt that diversity meetings for freshmen would help to encourage better mul­ticultural relations from the start and could lead to improvements throughout the University. 
"Because of the great amount of turnover here, improvements are very diffi­cult. The same things go on every year because there are always new people who have not gone through these things," Davis said. 
"I feel that some of the minorities come here with a chip on their shoulder," said Marisa Marquez. "Instead, I felt that I needed to go out and try to learn about other people and make friends." 
Director of multicultural stu­dent affairs Iris Outlaw noted the support that is offered for ethnic student organizations by the office of Multicultural Student Affairs and the impor­tance of its goal of "educating through culture." 
"One of the most important things is for students to talk tn each other," stated Da, 1.., "This is a good start to sol\ ing the problem." 
Huge Savings on all Mac & Windows Software! 
Notre Dame Students and Faculty receive up to 75% off retail prices on all software. FREE delivery on all orders until 1/25/99! ADW 1-800-333-8571 
THE 


is accepting applications for: 
,,,,,n-· 

1999-2000 
Editor-in-Chief 
Any undergraduate or graduate student at the University of Notre Dame or Saint 
..

Mary's College is encouraged to apply. The editor-in-chief is entirely responsible for the operation ofThe Observer. Applicants should have a strong interest in journalism and pos­sess solid management, public relations, and communications skills. Previous newspaper experience and a background in writing and editing, while helpful, are not required. 
Applicants should submit a resume andfive-page statement to Heather Cocks by 5 p. m. Monday, January 25. For additional information about the position or application process, contact Heather Cocks at 631-4542, or stop by the office downstairs in South Dining Hall. 
...---------------------.--------..-----"""...------~-----------:.-:---~--:-­
...-.-,--~-----. ­

Friday, January 22, 1999 
¦ WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Military plane crashes, killing all 28 passengers 
MANAGUA, Nicaragua 
A Nicaraguan military plane delivering supplies to bases on the Atlantic coast crashed Thursday. killing all 28 people aboard, the military reported. The Antonov AN-26 plane was heading from Managua, the capital. to the port city of Bluefields 180 miles to the east. Nine soldiers, 15 civilians and four crew members were on the night, the Army reported. The civilians were rela­tives of soldiers stationed at the bases. The cause of the crash was not known. The plane was found 10 miles south of Bluefields, said army spokesman Captain Milton Sandoval. The plane was still burning when rescue crews arrived and there were no survivors. he said. Air Force helicopters and Navy boats were sent to the area to recover the bodies. 
Schools receive Internet funds 
WASHINGTON 
More than $211 million -the largest amount issued to date -will l1ow to schools and libraries to help pay for connections to the Internet, the program's administrator announced Thursday. The Schools and Libraries Division of the Universal Service Administrative Company didn't have a breakdo\\'11 of how many schools and libraries will receive the monev. That's becausc the 4 , 5 0 0 com mi t m e11t Ic tte rs mailed out can cover entire school districts. A list of' the entities receiving the funding let­ters was not released. But the program's administrator said applicants in all 50 states. plus the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands received something. This third batch of funding pushes the total amount of' money released thus far to more than $427 million. the administrator said. The group began disbursing money late last year. 
Hacker hits wrong hard drive 
COPENHAGEN, Denmark 
A 19-year-old Danish student picked the wrong victim when he hacked his way into a home computer. Ile was arrested Thursday by the machine's owner -the head of the Copenhagen police's special computer crime unit. Detective Arne Gammelgaard had installed an anti-virus program in his comput­er at home. On Sunday. it warned him about an intruder and enabled him to gather infor­mation about the visitor. Gammelgaard inves­tigated and an Internet provider helped track the hacker. The student confessed to hacking and said he randomly picked the cyber-cop. The hacker was released after he was charged with "unauthorized access to another person's documents or programs." 
Dow 
AMEX: 704.99
]ONES 
-7.38 
Nasdaq:
9264.08 
2344.72 
Same: 
-70.77 495
•
NYSE: 
588.03 
-8.06 
S&P 500: 1235.16 
Composite-21.46 
Volume: -71.83 1,0-16,031, 190 
VOLUME LEADERS 
rnm,~:si·  Ilflf;II  'i ru i "'1,l  l!i·mi  e111n·  
Sl'N \ll{'ROS\'STBI  Sl!NW  •6,76  -7.l?SU  YK.2500  
A\IAZON.C0.\1 INl' ASC'ENll CO\ll\1  A\IZN ASM>  ..6.19.,.,o  -7JHHMl -8.1875  1116JMHl Hl.7Sll0  
llEI.I. l'OMPl'TEII  llt:U.  -1..12  ,1.1250  ll.l.lH7S  
,\llCKOSotT CORP  \!Sn  -2.65  -4. .\125  158..112  
l.llCEST TECH INC  LL'  ,7.79  -9.IMHlll  106.Slkl  
USCOSYSUMS  l'SCO  ·4.$.\  -4.KIH  101..112  
ISTEI.COKP  INTC  .J..U  ,4,7~lll  B.I.SOO  
\Kl WOKLl>CO\I  WC:0\1  -4.611  ..,.t.25U  7.1.8750  
A\IEK ONI.ISE  AOL  ~~Jt,  ,7.StHlO  14UHMI  


. COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
¦ ROMANIA 
Coal miners take poli~e as hostages 
ASSOCIATED PRESS  
COSTESTI  
Mobs of striking Romanian coal min­ 
ers stormed through police lines  
Thursday, attacking riot troops with  
clubs and homemade expiosives.  
Dozens of police were taken hostage  
and one was reported killed as the min­ 
ers refused to stop their march upon  
the capital.  
More than 130 people were injured  
and up to 50 police kidnapped in the  
fierce assault as 7,000 miners overran  
government roadblocks on a central  
highway leading to Bucharest.  
Antenna 1 private television said a  
policeman was shot to death during the  
clashes, but did not elaborate. There  
was no official confirmation.  
For two hours, police defended their  
positions with smoke bombs and tear  
gas -but outmanned and outmaneu­ 
vered. the 3,400 police finally retreat­ 
ed.  
Buoyed by their success, miners  
shouted "Down with the government!"  
an.d then boarded buses for Bucharest,  
110 miles to the southeast.  
Afterwards, two heavily damaged  
buses remained and the area was lit­ 
tered with broken glass.  
The violence erupted after the miners  
rejected the government's offer for  
more negotiations aimed at ending the  
17-day-old strike. The crisis is the most  
serious challenge to the government  
since it was elected in 1996.  
Troops had piled massive concrete  
slabs across a narrow bend in the road  
near the town of Costesti to deter the  
onslaught. It was unch~ar whether the  
government would again try to stop the  
miners, who are seeking higher wages  
and job protection.  
"Miners are attacking in an organized  
way, like an army," government  
spokesman Rasvan Popescu said. "They  
have taken prisoners among the police­ 
men." AFP Photo  
Interior Minister Gavril Dejeu, who A cordon of Romanian anti-riot policemen advances through clouds of tear gas  
has been widely criticized for failing to towards a group of striking Romanian miners waving a national flag during clashes in  
stop the miners' advance, was fired. He Horezu Thursday. Thousands of coal miners overpowered riot police after charging  
was replaced by Constantin Dudu through barricades and taking hostages as they march on the capital Bucharest.  
Ionescu, a 42-year-old former deputy defense minister. Both men are mem­bers of the governing National Peasant Party. National television, citing the Health Ministry, reported 138 people had been injured, including 130 police. Other reports said 20 miners were injured. Police arrested an unspecified num­ber of strikers.  Late Thursday, the miners stopped -apparently for the night -at Ramnicu Valcea, 100 miles northwest of Bucharest. They held a demonstra­tion, but there was no reported vio­lence. In a desperate effort to keep the miners from Bucharest, the govern­ment cut all rail ties between  Hamnicu Valcea and the capital, and set up barriers manned by anti-riot police on roads connecting the two cities. About 5,000 police crowded the main roadblock, 25 miles northeast of the capital. Authorities are eager to prevent the miners from descending on Bucharest. fearing violent protests.  

¦ MEXICO 
Judge convicts Salinas in murder trial 
AssOClATED PRESS  false documents and making  wholeheartedly and tireless­ dence presented filled 42  
false declarations.  ly to recuperate the freedom  bound books. During that  
TOLUCA  "It couldn't have been any  that today was denied by a  time. Raul Salinas has been  
Ending a block.buster trial,  worse," said Juan  decision void of the essential  held in a maximum security  
a judge convicted the elder brother of Mexico's former  Velazquez. an attorney for the Salinas family, who said  values of Mexico's political and judicial order," lawyer  prison near this city, 35 miles west of Mexico City.  
president of ordering the  the family plans to appeal.  ·Mariano Albor said in a  Friday was the deadline  
murder of a top politician  Prosecutors have suggest­ statement.  for the judge to issue his  
and sentenced him to 50  od that Raul Salinas saw  The appeal challenges  decision.  
years in prison Thursday.  Ruiz Massieu as a threat to  Judge Ricardo Ojeda  The Salinas trial was the  
Raul Salinas de Gortari,  the Salinas family's political  Bohorquez's ruling that  highest-profile murder case  
brother of Carlos Salinas de  power. They also said there  although there was no con­ in modern Mexican history,  
Gortari, was convicted and  was bad blood stemming  fession or direct evidence  and broke a long taboo  
sentenced for the 1994 mur­ from Ruiz Massieu's divorce  linking Salinas to the crime,  against prosecuting the rel­ 
der of Jose Francisco Ruiz  from the Salinas' sister..  there was sufficient circum­ atives of powerful politi­ 
Ma..c;sieu, a leader of the rul­ Raul Salinas· lawyers said  stantial evidence.  cians. Shortly after his  
ing Institutional  they had prepared an  The attorney general's  brother's arrest and in the  
Revolutionary Party who  appeal in advance and filed  office said it had no com­ wake of Mexico's economic  
also happened to be his for­ it immediately after the  ment on the ruling.  collapse, Carlos Salinas left  
mer brother-in-law.  judge's ruling.  The case has dragged on  the country and now lives in  
He was also convicted of  "Raul Salinas de Gortari  since Raul Salinas· arrest  self-imposed exile in  
unrelated counts of using  and his defenders will fight  four years ago p.nd the evi- Ireland.  


page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, January 22, 1999 
Conference goes co-ed to reach larger audience 
..

ByM.SHANNON RYAN Ieges. intellectuals and leaders on said. "I want to run for (student Wantyto 
Saint Mary's Editor 
For the first time in its nine­year existence, participants from approximately nine co-educa­tional schools like Hanover College, Hope College and The College of Wooster will join 15 women's colleges at this week­end's Play of the Mind confer­ence. 
The chairs of the typically women's college conference are hoping to spread this year's theme "Global Citizenship and the Intellectual Lile" not only to students of all-female schools, but to all female students. 
"Students come together to form a Play of the Mind commu­nitv," said Patrick White, co­chair of the conference and director of the Center for Academic Innovation at Saint Mary's. "Their individ4al strengths will help each other irrespective of [what type of school they attend]. We want all students to become more confi­dent to affect change in, around and for women on their campus­es." 
Before the invitation was extended to co-educational col­leges, the pros and cons were carefully measured. 
"We didn't want to lose the focus on women's colleges and women's issues," White said. "There was concern that we could lose the strong feeling of support from other women's col-

Another hesitation the com­campus and in the larger mittee discussed was the fact world," Rosenbush said. that few women's college confer­Rosenbush and _White also ences exist. stated invested interest in the 
'There are many opportunities benefits co-ed and women's col­to attend co-ed conferences," leges could possibly exchange said Georgeanna Rosenbush, with one another. Play of the Mind co-chair and "I think it can help students Saint Mary's director of student who chose to go to co-ed schools activities. "There are very few recognize the value of a available women's just for college female e v e n schools. 'THROUGH THE CONFERENCE, though they They are did not
WE HOPE TO ENCOURAGE v e r y choose to 
CREATIVE WAYS TO DEVELOP STU-
unique." go to one," The feed-DENTS AS CITIZENS, INTELLECTUALS White said. back from "In the 
the schools AND LEADERS ON CAMPUS AND IN 
long term, has been THE LARGER WORLD.' it could positive, spread the ·white said, benefits of 
GEORGEANNE ROSENBUSH WO m e 11 • s
with two 

m o r e SMC DIRECTOR OF STUDENT Al'TIV/71ES colleges to women's c o -e d colleges -schools. At Wilson College in the same time, while we Chambersburg, Penn., and [women's colleges] keep our Bennett College in Greensboro, pride and identity, we can recog­
N.C. -attending the conference nize that there are strong for the first time. women leaers outside of 
"It will be interesting to see women's colleges." how things work out. We might Lucy Fisher, a junior chem­find we have as much in com­istry major, is anticipating the mon with a school because it's lessons she can take back and small and liberal arts as much apply at Hanover College after as a school because it's a stepping onto a women's college women's college," White said. campus for the first time. 
"Through the conference, we "I would like to learn how I hope to encourage creative ways can be more effective as a to develop students as citizens, woman on a co-ed campus," she 
• 

body] president ... That's some­thing that there hasn't been a lot of [at Hanover]." 
Fisher also stated disappoint­ment that the returning alumni speakers in her field of study are consistently males. She said she is hoping that at Play of the Mind she will find ways to effectively approach this topic. 
''I'd like to hear what a female doctor has to say, especially since I'm pre-med," she said. "But when alumni come back to talk, it's all men." 
The conference itself will remain all-female with the exception of male faculty mem­bers from some schools. The future, however, remains open to male attendees, although there would be definite hesita­tions about such an invitation. . 
"In two, three, four years from now it might be decided to invite males," White said. "Certainly as a person of the male persuasion, I think male students could learn a lot from coming to Play of the Mind. However, the special soli­darity at the conference might not be the same ... In my judge­ment, it's not a good idea." 
Whether the following years' conferences will continue to involve women from co-educa­tional schools will depend in part on funding and what the stu­dents want. 
Jessica Delgado contributed to this article. 
write for 
The" 

Observer? Come to the news 1neeting Sunday at 5 p.tn. in The Obser-ver conference · rootn in-the 
..-, ,·~:::-;:::· 

[basement 0f SDH. 
SUMMER SERVICE PROJECT 
Invite you to a General Information Session! 
Tue5day, January 26, 1999 4:30P.M. Center for Social Concerns 


NATIONAL YOUTH SPORTS PROGRAM 
Stop t,y our Information tallle which will lie set up lietween the hour5 of 1:00 p.m. and 4:00 p.m. on that same day. ­
Work In the lnner-clty.Llve a simple, 
WANTED: STUDENT TEAM LEADERS 
1 communal llfe.En0age In social analysls.Grow spiritually and personally.Reflect on the contemporary Passion of Jesus 
QPPUCOTIONS f ASSIONIST LAY MISSIONERS avruLQBL£ QT TU£ csc 
5700 N. Harlem Avenue 

CQl.L FOR tnte.tvie.\tJ GS 1-BG14 
Edison @Hickory 254-9685 ALL FEATURES IN ULTRA STEREO 
JACK FROST (PG) 
2:15, 4:40, 7:25, 9:40 
MIGHTY JOE YOUNG (PG) 
2:00, 3:50, 4:45, 7:10, 7:40, 9:50, 10:20 PATCH ADAMS (PG 13) 1:35, 2:30, 4:10, 5:10, 7:20, 7:50. 10:00, 10:30 
PRINCE OF EGYPT (PG) 
2:20, 3:20, 4:50, 5:40, 7:35, 8:05, 9:55, 10:35 
SHAKESPEARE IN LOVE (R) 
1:50, 4:30, 7:55, 10:35 
STAR TREK: INSURRECTION (PG) 
1:30, 2:35, 4:00, 5:20, 7:00, 7:45, 9:35, 10:25 THE WATERBOY (PG 13) 2:35, 5:05. 7:30, 9:45 
THIN RED LINE (R) 
1:20, 3:00, 4:55, 8:30, 7:00 
WALKING NED DEVINE (PG)
2:50, 5:00, 7:15, 9:30 
I
r l"dth h tTh d 
*No passes 

r---------------------------------­
Friday, January 22, 1999 The Observer. INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
¦ JAPAN 

Japanese stocks on the rise 
Associated Press 
TOKYO 
Japanese stocks rose in morning trading Friday amid increased optimism corporate Japan has begun to speed up restructuring moves designed to improve profitability. The dollar rose against the yen. 
The Nikkei Stock Average rose 55.12 points, or 0.39 per­cent. to 14,300.54 as of mid­day. On Thursday, the average closed up 217.37 points, or 
1.55 percent. 
The dollar bought 113. 90 yen in late morning trading, up 0.78 yen from late Thursday in Tokyo and also above its level of 113.68 yen in New York. 
On the Tokyo Stock Exchange, stocks gained ground on buying from investors with expectations that streamlining and mergers in the banking industry and other sectors will pave the way to recovery, traders said. 

"Some see that there's a light at the end of the tunnel and the market may be bot­toming out very soon," said Sachio Ishikawa, g•meral man­ager of the stock division at Chuo Securities Co. 
Traders were also encour­aged by a report Friday in the Nihon Kcizai financial daily that foreign investors are like­ly to resume buying Japanesc shares in 1999, analysts said. 
The broader Tokyo Stock Price Index of all issues listed on the first section gained 
0.89 points, or ().08 percent, to 1,105.81. The TOPIX closed up 14. 85 points or 1.36 per­cent, the day before. 
In currency dealings, the dollar continued to strengthen in Tokyo after surging in New York on rumors China was going to devalue its currency, which would further harm the struggling Japanese economy. 
But the US.currency's gains could be capped by worry over trade friction between the U.S. and Japan, which tends to weaken the dollar. 
Mtrnnwhile, the euro was traded at 131.93 yen, up from 
130.92 yen late Thursday in Tokyo. 
The yield on the 10-year Japanese government bond rose to 1.795 percent from 
1.780 percent on Thursday, driving its price down to 
100.04 yen from 100.16 yen. 
Spring Break Seminars 
March 7-13, 1999 Experiential/Service Learning 
Center for Social Concerns 
APPALACHIA SEMINAR -> Work and learn at one of 15 sites in the Appalachian region 
-::;-An ND tradition of service-learning 

L'ARCHE COMMUNITY SEMINAR 
-> Live for a week in community with persons with disabilities -> Read the work of Jean Vanier 
MIGRANT EXPERIENCES SEMINAR 
-> Work in the fields with migrant workers -> Assist agencies that serve migrants -> Live with migrant families 
WASHINGTON SEMINAR 
; 

Theme: Violence and Nonviolence in American Life -> Direct cpntact with political, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. -> Service and political awareness opportunities 


CIVIL & HUMAN RIGHTS SEMINAR 
-·> Travel to key civil rights sites in the South (e.g., the King Center, the Nat. Civil Rights Inst.) -> Learn from leaders who were instrumental in 
civil rights legislation and development -> A new and unique opportunity 
All seminars offer one academic credit (various departments) 
Applications Available Now at the CSC 
Ap p 1i c a t io n s D u e : Ja n . ·2 8 , 1 9 9 9 
Also: Deadline extended for the Mexico Seminar 
• 
csc 
c E N r E R F o R 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
¦ INDONESIA 

Christian-Muslim militant clash kills 24 
Associated Press Police said 134 people were injured in Ambon, 102 JAKARTA of .them seriously. Many 
Rioters fired flaming were stabbed. beaten or arrows at mosques and trapped in burning build­churches and armed gangs lngs. Some were attacked blocked roads Thursday as with rocks, machetes, clubs clashes between Christian and even bows and arrows. ,and Mu$Hm mjlitant~.spread A mo))..of 200 pe9ple. iri eastern lndonesia;9> armed with daggersf:and 
At least 24 people have spears. marched on Ambon's died this week and almost police ,1headquarters 3,000 have fled their homes Thursday,,,accusing security in Maluku province, once personnel of shooting at 
known ,stheBpice Jslands; leEJ.~t two(ti~ters.to d~ath. 
At leasJ ro religious build~0etrney Iater<dispersed peacc­ings were set afire J1nd thou-fully. 
..sands. pf polic~wanq troops .. ·•··•·· .. Police S<l.j~. t~ey.Jired only
,1\llave beef! f10.w1fihJg restore ··;w'arning sli'ots t6 dispe.rse 
}\'.lprder. ·. •,:<;~i:;if'.\lR'.ft4ffoitti\t@tJ'. ...·· ·'" ·. rampagi11g:1nobs. > · ... ,/"•·0."·" L~;The viole,!1ce.. was the latest ·t·,y~ng~,,,~Iocked ro.~di;t{µr­m a s~r.les . of clash~s to hit ·...·.·• ·rounding Ambon's main air­the sprawling SoµJheast " port. whiclt'was closed. most Asian nation tis it gra,pple~ .ofthe day;i'' .·.·. . .. . . /if,h L~it~·. its;;;;f'Orsf ecou~mi~•.~d*''i<fkJ\bout.~,, passeng~-.~~lwho s1s m three decades,,Soarmg disembai'kJ~d from a •ship at inflation,,: unemployrrt.~nt and .• Ambon'~ ,()rt were sh~lter­p overty rates have all i;ngin a wl.tfting roo~'f·'Joo increa~f3d soc~a1 tem,i?rs..··• afraid tdl~ave,>the1'ijJ~ra 
.i;..;ri1!%elll~;.gai.~£ftYtlttp~~•~il~:'.t;;i;:tf~f:itl~~a~t~•~ltf~-· 
.pie ,ar~,Mu~fim, iu;;ikingJt'v:outs iri\t'sfveraP:re~iclential 
;;,..•.:~1~:~1:~!t~:.~~::i~t:t~.-·•··••~r;:a5i·ukJi;;'~~!i!:~:i·~;;lice · 
?tare,s ~Jth. lat"· e.'.(i.1ijtl§tian.. eble(...c..1.t~~tY(}}1(1$r¥•(~aJcl 
;;;,:,i:~~,¼~~ts . (. . . . ..· .. .. lf~e:~~1::i,~tlt~,::01:::""Q~curr~'if?!} Ambo~Ilsland. " ofvehicl8.(Wert damage~· Qn J:;4QQ,,i,1piles. nor~~~,~~t .. (}I Ambon, privately owned 
~,. , • ~ ff• · -_ -~}~Mt~fI:r:t: tir.;:,:;:tf
.'.'..·.·••·:•.·.:.:., .. 
·.d•.•·.•·•.r·:···,··.:,•.·.•-·········•········.,,·.·.•·····y•,;·······:' ....•,:.~-••···'·:.•.a··;·········:·.·'·•·k·=·:,.,·.·.:······.···,, 
•.·••··••l.·.·.,.••.i.·,··

•.:.·.•····w·¾~1~r,11r1r~r~f.~t~lli~''ll{-, 



Need a job? Tired ofWashing Dishes? 
The Student Activities Office is currently taking applications for the position ofProgram Assistant. 

Flex~ble hours, Good pay, Plan campus events, Make fun ads like this one. 
Application deadline January 29th. Apply ip Lafortune 315. Questions? Call 1-7309. 
e 


page 8 The Observer • NEWS Friday, January 22, 1999 
¦ SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY 

Patient's cells may regenerate organs, research shows 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
A patient's own cells might someday be used to grow new organs -a development sug­gested by a breakthrough lab experiment that found the build­ing-block cells that normally make brain tissue in adult mice could be changed into blood-making cells. 

These so-called stem cells, the foundation source of the body's tissue. have been identified as a way to make new skin, liver and other organs. But in previous research the cells were harvest­ed from embryos, a technique that set off a storm of ethical objections. 
The new research suggests that even mature stem cells, such as from the adult brain or bone marrow, can change into the progenitor cells for other types of tissue. If such a tech­nique also worked in humans, embryos may not be needed for such research. 
"You may be able to use your own stem cells to make new tis­sue," said Angelo L. Vescovi, head of a team that conducted the mouse experiment. "As a concept, I don't see any problem in adult stem cells being used to make new skin, for instance." 

The research shows "there are alternative strategies" to har­vesting stem cells from embryos, said Dr. Ronald McKay, a studies. But the research was shadowed by ethical concerns because it was thought that only stem cells from embryos retained the ability to grow into a variety of organs. Many groups objected to medical experimen­tation with human embryos and Congress forbade federal money for such studies. 
It also led President Clinton to 
National Institutes of Health 
researcher and a pioneer in 
stem cell studies. 
Quayle to run for presidency 
Stem cells are the mortar and 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS. 
Former Vice President Dan i Quayle reportedly win go on . cable televisioJ1 tonight to out;. line his plan ht seek the Republican noJnJnation for president in 2000., •··•· 

tei"s will be in Phoenix, but major campaignannounce*ments will come inJndiana. 
·He is expected to announce the f()rmation of afrexplorato~ 
·ry committee in Indianapolis earlyriext monthand will for­mally announce his candidacy in April in Huntingt9n, where 
· •1r am· uniquely positioned \,the was taised, TJ:1e:Star and and prepared to be president. · N~ws reported> . . . lca11assure yottT am·serfou~;·.· ·· Quayle; Georg'i}iBush'Svice 
teins, the cefls began to grow
Lam committed;'' Quayle said president and tUnning mate >George W. · Bu.sh. former ·.• 
different types of tissue cells. 
in today's Indianapolis Star ·.. JnJ988 and .1992, calls him..Jfo:rennessee @GOy.... Lamar 
and News. Heistodiscuss his plans tonight orf CNN!s "Larry King Live," .· .........·... . 
Quayle, whqrlllOVed from. Indiana to Arizona in 1996; said his campaign headquar-
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The White House plans to propose a $4.5 million initiative Friday to counter violence at abortion clinics with added security, such as alarm sys­tems, bulletproof windows and closed-circuit camera systems. 
First lady Hillary Rodham Clinton was expected to make the announcement in a speech to the National Abortion Rights Action League on the 26th anniversary of the Supreme Court's landmark Hoe vs. Wade decision. 
The money, to be included in the president's budget proposal for fiscal 2000, would will help clinics purchase motion detec­tors and improved lighting, according to a senior adminis­tration official, speaking on condition of anonymity. It will also pay for security assess­ments to determine which clin­ics are most at risk. 
"I think with the escalation of violence waged against abor­tion provider clinics, this is good news," said Belle Taylor­McG hee, spokeswoman for 

t. 
brick for growing all of the body's tissues. In a developing"l will be jn control; My agen­

embryo, they produce the cells
cla. My campaign, My.staff.t' · 

that become the body parts.
· Quayle, 51,.sa.id he will 

After birth, some stem cells arepush for a 3() percent across­specially programmed to replen­
the-board tax rate reduction 

ish some tissues such as bloodand empha,sizt, f9reign policy. 
and skin.
Quayle has a widefund­
Researchers earlier had isolat­raising base andis well estab­

ed stem cells from human
Hshed in the early primary 

embryos or from aborted fetus­
states; .···•····.·.·.·..· ..· •·· · 

es, and grew the cells in a lab. 
. Other potential GOP ca,ndt.. • When treated with specific pro­

dates include Texas Gov. 
That work set off a frenzy of

self a credil:>le candidate i?Alexander1 OldQ Rep. John whom the public. win take Kasich, Elizabeth Dole, Seu. 
s~ricmsly. . .··.•···· .. ··•· .•..· •. •· ..· .·• John My<:<.tilltof Arizona,' ''I.C$ going to be.•• different . broadcastef.·J>at.Buchanan,. for me this time around, run;. millionaire Steve Forbes and 
•ning for president/ he said. religious activist Gary Bauer, 
NARAL. She stressed the need for doctors, abortion providers and women to all have safe access to clinics, which provide a variety of health services. 
"This is a good first step, and it's important that the adminis­tration is taking domestic ter­rorism seriously," said Jacquelyn Lendsey, vice presi­dent of public policy for Planned Parenthood. 
At the same time as the announcement, thousands of abortion opponents were expected to march to the Capitol and Supreme Court on Friday. 
In November, Attorney General Janet Reno set up a national task force to prosecute and prevent attacks and threats against abortion providers. The announcement was made a month after abortion Dr. Barnett Slepian, an abortion provider, was killed by a rifle shot fired into his suburban Buffalo, N.Y., home. 
The task force plans to train local law enforcement and abortion providers in how to respond to and prevent such attacks and establish a national database with all information on clinic violence. 
A survey released Thursday by the Feminist Majority Foundation showed that in the first seven months of 1998, 22 percent of clinics experienced one or more forms of violence. These included blockades, invasions, bomb threats and bombings, arson threats and arsons, chemical attacks, death threats and stalking. This was a slight decrease from 25 perccmt in 1997. 
The survey also found that clinics that reported law enforcement response as "excellent" experienced lower levels of violence than those that characterized local law enforcement as "poor." 

$S.95Per h February 19, 20, 21 
0ur Sign ups are: Sat 1/30 9:30 a.m. -5:00 p. m. Mon 2/111:00 a.m. -5:00 p.m. 
EA.R..N' 'I...JICK C.A.SI-I! 

Earn $$$ for Spring Break 
order his National Bioethics Advisory Commission to consid­er the moral issues of such research. Earlier this week, NIH director Harold Varmus said his agency concluded that research with lab-grown stem cells didn't violate the congressional man­date, even though the cells origi­nated from human embryos. 
But Vescovi's work with mice suggests that any stem cell ­even from an adult -can be reeducated to make any type of tissue. 
Vescovi, of the National Neurological Institute in Milan, Italy, is senior author of a study to be published Friday in the journal Science. 

Security goal for abortion proposal 
Save Big on Mac & Windows Software! 
Notre Dam_e Students and Faculty receive up to 75% off retail prices on all software. Call Now for FREE delivery on all orders until 1/29/99! ADW 1-800-333-8571 
¾\. l~J '<'·, ' 
i 






A Real Research University 
Recent discussions about joining the Big Ten make it clear that Notre Dame is committed to becoming a research university whether her daughters and 
Jeff Langan 
sons like it or not, and regardless of voices from our medieval and not so medieval past wondering if this is the way to go. On that score, she ought to leave the Middle Ages behind and think about what becoming a research university really means. Then, she should commit herself to it full-heart­ed.This is no time for half-measures, or keeping up with the Jones.· Notre should become a cutting-edge research university. And let's far.c it, up to this point, Amerir.an research universities in general have been doing a poor job imitating their Prussian ancestors (except for all the relativists they man­age to produce). 
That's right. the Prussians created the model for the research university. Therefore, Notre Dame should imitate the Prussian research university, and not weak American research universi­ties for its educational model. The Prussians used research universities to build a strong state. Those great research universities cranked out sol­diers for building the great Prussian military, economic and political machine. This required discipline and specialization. There's no reason why Notre Dame can't do the same, pro­duce fine upstanding citizens who are the top contributors to the American economic machine. 
Getting to the status of a real research university will require some changes. I suggest the following. 

Notre Dame should abolish what's left of the Core Curriculum. The Core is a Bore. Students don't get any kind of unified vision of civilization in their Core classes, they get a bunch of spe­cialized relativistic mumbo jumbo from six or seven different disciplines. This is no way to produce experts. So let's make every student a good relativist and a good specialist at the same time. It will increase our pres­tige. 
Through a series of tests, Notre Dame, fol­lowing the Prussian model, will tell each student what her or his major is. Once it gives a student a major. all of the student's courses will then be deter­mined for her or him, bflcause to real­ly be successful, to really make a contribution to any discipline or be an expert at any job, the student needs to '/ follow a disciplined / //1 course of study. How can a ' good research university let its students waste time taking philosophy, history, literature or foreign languages that do not contribute to specialized research outside of one's discipline? A good Prussian research university pro­duces students that are the greatest scholars in the world in their particu­lar discipline. They will really know something. 
Notre Dame will have to train stu­dents as narrowly as possible. For example, no experts in such a general field as political science, our fields of study will have to be more along the lines of "Social Movements in the Netherlands in the 1830s." Now won't you be happy once you know that your university has the World Renowned Expert in the Social and Political History of the Netherlands in the 1830s? Or the World Renowned Expert in Medieval Weights and Measures? Or the World Renowned Expert in the Bathing Habits of Nineteenth Century 
Soldiers? Or the World Renowned Expert on Sewing Techniques in France in the 1760s? These are all areas of study 
just wait­ing for some 
ambi­
) ~~~~g

stu­dents \ looking ~ to stake her or his claim. But you say your not going to become an academic? Don't worry, the research university is still for you. In order to really be of use to 
society, to really become a Big play­er. you need to be an expert at some­thing. Like financial markets in Togo or Tasmanian law. It's the experts that really control things. So, the area of expertise students develop will bncome their step to success in the American economic machine. We want our stu­dents rolling the dice to see what African or South American tribe gets slaughtered by the next piece of for• eign aid coming out of Congress. That's 
what experts get to do. 
And given that Notre Dame will have adopted Prussian order and discipline, her daughters and sons won't have to settle for the crumbs any more. They will be the leaders, the innovators, the experts on the top of the financial, eco­nomic and social ladder. Some of you may resist doing what becoming a research university requires. But why should we take a middle road? Most of us are already committing ourselves to a lifestyle in corporate America, and the four or five years we are here is seen as a rest before we commit our­selves to this reality. Why should we settle, tn.en, for mediocrity? If we are really set on committing ourselves to Pharmaceutical companies, consulting companies, lawfirms, investment banks, other research universities, pol­itics, or any other of the smaller busi­nesses that make their living driving white-collar men and women to lead the lives of empty modern materialists, why not commit ourselves to being the masters of them rather than just the cogs in the machine? Why settle for the crumbs? If the real goal is to become a research university that fits in to American society and that at the same time churns out students who will find themselves among the eco­nomic elites of this country, why go at it half-hearted? Why give it a superfi­cial attempt? This is how Prussia pro­duced great universities and turned itself into a military and economic giant. This is how France and England became great world powers. We need to toughen up, and if a research uni­versity is the way to go, let's not make a half-hearted attempt. 
Jeffrey l. Langan is a graduate stu­dent in the Department ofGoi1ernment. His column appears every other Friday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
GARRY TRUDEAU
¦ DOONESBURY 

/.1/tU, lOOK'3 t./Kt3 Ya!'!?& KIPPING'!' CJ.IJ.AN, KIP. IM O(JTA KN)l,(IA SIY 
WTHl!i :
1161<£. ~tLICK l(JllH 
"/He PAPeR./ ""-~--­
,,.,,w,~-.;. 

¦ 0UOTE OF THE DAY 
, The United States them­selves are essentially the greatest poem.' 
-Walt Whitman 
' I : I > I ,

) . ., . ._ ' .. ; ' 
. '. t } , 
. ' , ' 

p 
I 
T

IE 
page 10 OB~ERVER Friday, January 22, 1999 

, 
¦ CALIFORNIA DREAMIN 
The March for Life is this weekend. Don't stop reading now because this is "another abortion column." If you arc pro-life then a lot of people are dying and if you are pro-choice then you think I'm going to step all over woman's rights in a 
Brandon Williams 
few seconds. Both of those issues are important enough to warrant a few min­utes of your time. 
People have lost sight of the gravity of the abortion debate. This is exemplified by this University's inviting the rabidly pro-choice presidential candidate Bill Bradley to teach here. (I wonder if he would sign a partial birth abortion ban if elected?) Political commentators are acknowledging that abortion is no longer the galvanizing force it used to be in the foolishly categorized "socially conserva­tive" portion of the American constituen­cy. Pro-lifers are getting bored. 
In some ways this is under­standable. It's easy to lose one's perspective in a culture that employs its most powerful cru­sade rhetoric in the campaign against smoking. (Ten-year-olds can get their hands on guns, "I lustier" magazines and hero­ine and we're worried about them smoking; meanwhile peo­ple live in dire poverty and the nation's ghettos are epicenters of social injustice and we're worried about the societal rami­fications of lighting up! That in and of itself makes one question the priorities of our culture). Moreover, the arguments involved in the abortion debate often do seem stale and many have grown disenchanted or apathetic. They feel that there is little hope of changing the mind of anyone. Perhaps they are right, but I don't think so. I'm here to do something to eat away at that myth. 
The importance of the abortion debate has only grown in the years since Roe v. Wade. It asks hard questions about some of the most basic and crucial issues our society must face. Right now there are pivotal and relatively new abortion-relat­ed questions facing the country. America's response to these issues will determine how deeply we are willing to sink into the "culture of death." 
The first current abortion issue is par• tial birth abortion, which most of are familiar with. A bi-partisan majority in both houses passed a ban on partial birth abortion, during which a baby that has already peeked its head out of the womb has scissors summarily plunged into its head and its brains sucked out. That seems to me like something pretty con­cretely worth banning. President Clinton 

The Fight for Life: One More Struggle for Justice to Humanity 
federal government the pro-choice decision to fund forces have the
'THE STAKFS ARE TOO HIGH.
"stem cell research." upper hand and Stem cells can only ONE CANNOT TAKE A LIFE ON that's not going to be harvested from change because
THE BASIS OF PROBABILITY. IF YOU 
early-stage human minds aren't going embryos, necess1·tat• ARE GOING TO KILL A DEFFENSE-to change. The bio­ing the destruction LESS BEING THEN YOU BEITER BE logical evidence is of this young life. there for all to see.
DAMN SURE THAT BEING IS NOT A 
disagreed. He vetoed the bill. There is right now an effort to override that veto, which Representative Steve Largent refer­enced in a speech to the nation that fol­lowed the State of the Union address ear­lier this week. Without pro.life citizens adamantly behind that effort to override there is no chance this measure will suc­ceed and the murder of practically•borns will continue in American hospitals. 
This is not the only current, crucial abortion-related issue that has only recently come onto the scene. Also facing the nation is a new our society is being murdered and exploited on an ever more horrifying level. With partial birth abortion what is essentially a fully developed child is killed in cold blood (you can read doctor's accounts of f1oating heads and piece-by­piece dismemberment). Yet, we haven't dealt with the arguments themselves. After all, is anyone on that march in D.C. this weekend really going to change any· one's mind? The common perception is that we are at an intellectual stalemate in this country -pro-choice vs. pro•life. It 
happens to be that 


Until now the gov­ernment has not PERSON.' funded the research because it cannot use taxpayer money for research that uses, and subsequently destroys, human embryos. However, working on their own, a number of American scientists have harvested enough stem cells from aborted 
fetuses and from unused embryos from infertility treatments that they now have a "stem cell bank" built up. The govern­ment is getting around the research ban by funding the study of the already har­vested cells. This is a huge issue, and one that is made complicated by the potential of stem•cell research to contribute to medicine. Yet, from a pro-life standpoint. our government is funding research on body parts that have been taken from human beings that were murdered for the purpose of that research. Maybe you've heard about American servicemen in Korea who, after coming home with a sexually promising female, awake drugged in an ice-filled bathtub with both of their kidneys cut out? For a pro-lifer this issue is not dissimilar to our govern­ment funding research on those kidneys. 
So, the issues are still extremely current and relevant. A defenseless segment of A one celled zygote 
in the very first 
stages of pregnan· 

cy is clearly of the human species and by looking at that zygote one can tell what the color of his/her hair, size of his/her build and com­plexion of his/her skin is going to be. Nevertheless, incomprehensibly to many 
pro-lifers, those in favor of' a right to abortion are not convinced by this evi­dence that an unborn child is a human being. How is anyone possibly going to convince those who are pro-choice that a fetus is a human being and that it is being murdered when it is aborted? I say, maybe they don't have to be convinced of this for their minds to change. Maybe the pro•life movement needs a new argu• ment, one that does not demand so much from those who are pro-choice. 
There are many pro-choicers who believe that abortion is somehow a justifi­able homicide. They are not going to be swayed by the following argument. For them, even if that fetus being killed is a defenseless human being it is not worthy of protection. However. many, if not most, pro-choice individuals are simpJ} not con• vinced that the fetus is a human being, or a person. People have a right to life. Non­
Don't Be Bashful. We Don't Bite. 
people (unless you're an animal activist) do not. My question is: how many_ of those who don't believe that a fetus is a human being are a hundred percent sure that it is not a human being? Can any of them honestly say, "There is no doubt at all in my mind that this fetus is not a person?" If they can say that. then they are off the hook. But, if they can't say that, if there is doubt in their mind, if they would admit that there is a chance, even a small chance, that a fetus is a person, if they are not a hundred percent sure that they are right -then they are obligated to defer to that possibility. The stakes are too high. One cannot take a life on the basis of probability. If you are going to kill a defenseless being then you better be damn sure that being is not a person. 
Throughout the history of western civi­lization one of mankind's greatest sins has been the de-humanization of human beings. Whether it was the English to the Irish, the German's to the Jews or the Europeans to the Africans -the story remains the same. In America, whether it was the slaveholders to the slaves or the Jacksonian Democrats to the native­Americans -the story still remains the same. Our culture has a bloody and tragic history of denying humanity and human rights, both in theory and in practice, to 
j 
various people who deserved those rights. Our civilization must live with the scar of' deny­ing people their personhood, of taking the most fundamental dignities of humanity away from individuals who were not able to adequately defend thomselves. Those who did so intdlectual­ized their actions, to their mod­ern-day shame. Yet. in the end they did what they did on the basis of Sl~lf-interest. Today, once again, the question con· cerns a subjective definition of humanity and the most basic of rights stemming from that humanity -the right to life. Our history warns us not to risk making that same societal mis­take again. So, anyone who is pro-choice and docs believe in human rights and docs not believe in murder better be completely positive that they are not making that same mistake 

again. I don't think many in the pro• choice movement can say that they are so sure. 
The abortion debate is still relevant. There is still a fight to be fought. Minds can still be changed. Moreover, if people are dying, especially at the rate in which the unborn arc dying, then our society cannot afford to become lethargic or apa­thetic. Opposition to abortion must contin­ue. So, say a prayer for the pro-life marchers this weekend and say a prayer for this country. We definitely need it. 
Brandon Williams is ... well. we don "t even know where to begin. His column should run every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
. 

Observer.Viewpoint. l@nd.edu 
.. 


p
IE 
I 
T 

Friday, January 22, 1999 osgERVER page 11 
¦ CAPITOL COMMEf<JTS 

¦ LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Clinton's State of the Union 
Nolr:e · 
DameMusY
Speech was 
Legally
Purely Republican 
Accepf,i 

• 
Heltr:i"'>.·
THAIV,t~ 

centi:i~Yi? ~ 


I have been greatly encouraged that both the. Notre Dame studeµts fl.nd faculty have . been making great efforts)Q end the.. University's ·discriniiµat9ry.tr~atment· .. of heliocentdc.s,· Fi11~ny;teyen..the···Academic Council agfees that tlle:Wniversity should legally bind itself not to discriminate ... •..... ;++. against h~liocentrics. Whether this wiU spr­vive the board.of trustees remains to be \<,;;, 

,.-:~~~{\·::< . 
seeni-. ·::·:'.::;:;;;:/.r~~:__ . 
What is disturbing is not so much ~he conservative resistance. that is to be expected, but rather the weak responses of the progressives to such resistance. The conservatives are quick to point out that church doctrine is very clear. The Sun goes around the Earth. 1f there was any doubt about that. the trial and condemnation of Galileo made the church position very Anyone who r<~membt~rs the the R(~agan and Bush administra­two years in office doomed his 
clear. Ptolemic astronomy is orthodoxy; 1980s can recall h(jw the country tions. Then Clinton praised all the Congressional majority. but freed 
Copernican astronomyls heretical. As marveled at Ronald Reagan's ability fighting soldiers in the Gulf, then the President to return to his old 
Christians we are called to love the helio* to communicate with the American looking up to the gallery, acknowl­centralist ways. As a centralist, 
centrics. but hate their heliocentrism. edged a pilot who flew missions Clinton has captured the American 
Heliocentrism is an objective disorder of over Iraq. Those gestures were public's consistent support, even 
the mind. vintage Reagan. through his personal crisis. 
Progressives here have pointed out that Republicans are frustrated by the Students of history should pay par­
Ptolemic astronomy is a relatively periph•
Gary 
eral Catholic doctrine -perhaps Uke the State of the Union speech with sav­success. By embracing a large seg­President. Clinton peppers each ticular attention to the President's 
call for us to eat fish on Fridays. ing social security, establishing ment of the middle of the political 
Progressives have also pointed out that conservatives often seem insincere in their
educational standards, providing spectrum, Clinton overpowers the business incentives, welfare reform, fringe elements and solidifies 
Caruso 

proclaimed love ofthe heliocentrics. It is gun control, improving environ­Democrats ... including Senators 
difficultto·see hoyv you can exhibit your .· mental standards, expanding family who sit in judgment of him. 
love for your fe)low,manbyburning him •.•.. public. While he was affectionately leave, increasing the minimum Republicans do themselves no 
Progressivei,J1ave also J)Qirlt~~.. out t1iat '\If,W~k;g; called "The Great Communicator" wage and establishing better work­favors by pressing impeachment. 
Notre Dam.e nas lost t:he opportunity to hir~ ·· by his supporters. he merely ing conditions.· His address They appear more partisan as they 
some top rate facultythat are·heliocentric. espoused his long-held conservative includes a little of something for are seen on television at the State 
The embarrassing incident recently with views. At that point in time. everybody. One House member of the Union speech either sitting in 
the heliocentric priest who felt compelled Republicans success-disgust or not attending at 
to resign is a case in point. And now anoth~ fully wrapped them-all. Republican senators 
er case has become apparent. A young selves in the are desperately seeking to 
promising scholar, Isaac Newton, has been. American flag and 'WHEN BILL CLINTON ENTERED THE support their House man­
removed from the short list for a chair in portrayed them­agers prosecuting the 
natural philosophy on the grounds that he 
POLITICAL ARENA, ARKANSAS INSID-
is heliocentric. · They set a conserva­end the political night­selves as patriotic. President while trying to 
The progressive replies are not without
ERS WARNED THAT HE WAS A CENTRALIST .•. 
merit1 But theymiss the central point. 1, .· not been seen since THE WERE CORRECT, AS EVIDENCED BY THE majority in the House in tive agenda that had mare that will end their 
Church doctrine ,()n thispointis absolutely the 1920s. 2000. The President's 
false. The. coJ!g~µiµati.on.o[peUocentri~rn i.s'#
PRESIDENT'S RECENT STATE OF THE UNION 
repugnant to rl~tut~Jreason.' Conservatives entered the national Speaker Hastert for bipar­
When Bill Clinton olive branch offering to 
call for an "intelle¢tual·docility" to the
ADDRESS. CLINTON NOT ONLY SPOKE AS A 
church. By this they mean that we should Arkansas insiders DEMOCRAT, HE OUT-REPUBLICANED THE seal the Republican's 
political arena, tisan cooperation helps 
disregard the cries ofour god-given natural warned that he was doomed fate. 
reason; theyJnvite us to commit a kind of 
REPUBLICANS.' 

intellectual suicide. While the Church said, "Beware, Bill will be said. Much will be a centralist. They In years to come. much 
teaches many great and important truths, Clinton sways with written. Much will be 
it is our job to lovingly correct her when the wind, follows the polls and tries said during an interview after the studied about the Clinton presiden• 
she is wrong..Tolerance of heliocentrism is to please everybody." They were speech, "I thought the President did cy. One thing is evident today ­
now widely accepted in the· academic com­correct, as evidenced by the an excellent job taking Republican Clinton's State of the Union Address 
munity. outside the Church. Unless we act, President's recent State of the ideas and presenting them to the is his ultimate weapon. For years, 
how long will it bg.. l>efore the Church · Union Address. Clinton not only American public." it has reeked havoc on the 
admits its erro.r about Galileo? Will we spoke as a Democrat, he out­Eighty percent of the American Republican party, but more impor­
have to wait until the nineteenth or even Hepublicaned the Republicans. public agreed with the agenda the tantly, it has saved the Clinton 
(God forbid) the twentieth century? Many political observers believe President proposed in his speech. presidency. 
As we stand at the dawn of the eigh­that this Clinton trait is what makes Even staunch Republican advocates 
teenth century. Notre Dame must decide if conservatives so passionately hate like Pat Robertson now concede Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame '73, 
· it wishes to be taken seriously in the acade­the President. that the impeachment proceedings worked at the U.S. !louse of 
mic community. If it does, it must legally Highlighting issues like the bal­are dead because the President hit Representatives for 18 years and is 
bind itself not to discriminate against helio: anced budget and crime in his a home run wHh his State of the a consultant in Washington, D. C. 
centrics. r speech. the President espoused Union Address. It must be quite llis column appears every other themes usually thought of as sobering for the GOP faithful to Friday and his Internet address is 
Republican issues. Knowing that think one minute that Clinton and Hottline@aol.com. 
Mike Thrush leading Republican presidential the Democrats are on the verge of The views expressed in this col• 
Graduate srudenc, Department ofPhilosophy hopefuls have begun crying for a total destruction, only to watch the umn are those ofthe author and 
January 19, 1999 stronger national defense, Clinton President's approval rating surge to not necessarily those Jo The proposed billions of dollars of 76 percent in one network poll. Observer. · increases for defense spending. He It is ironic that Bill Clinton's cozy cited the long defense decline relationship with a Democratically "beginning in 1985," well back in controlled Congress during his first 
,, 





O
THE 

----------------Friday,January 22, 1999 Friday,Januar
BSERVER 
' 




The Observer/Liz Lang 
With the introduction of the Challenge U program by RecSports, working out could now lead to great prizes. 
RecSports Challenges Students to Challenge Themselves 
By SARAH DYLAG 
Scene Editor 

Looking outside the window at piles of melt­ing snow and thinking of the cold walk to Rolfs Sports and Recreation Center, the Rock, Loftus or any one of the on-campus sports facilities might not inspire many students to hit the gym. 
For those students, who need some added incentive to start working out or to keep work­ing out throughout the dreary winter months, RecSports has a challenge. It's called the Challenge U Spring Break and it lets each indi­vidual set his/her own workout goals and chart his/her progress. 
"We wanted to give people an extra incentive to get moving after Christmas for Spring Break and summer," said Jennie Phillips, the RecSports fitness coordinator. "Matt Peterson, my intern, and I brainstormed together to come up with the idea and Matt has done most of the 
legwork." 
The program, which has already gained over 350 partici­pants, requires each student to choose one of three mock desti­nations -a short (Hilton head, Island, SC). medium ijackson Hole, Wy.) or long (Montc·go Bav, Jamaica). For each minute or'exercise the student does each day (no more than 75 min­utes may be counted each day), the student gains one miles toward this mock destination. Ile/She can track their progress by moving a pin on the map hanging in the fitness room. 
Work-out activities logged as minutes includes, but are not limited to: working out in the Rock, in Loftus, in Holfs, playing interhall basketball, attending aerobics classes and strength training. 
"It's not limited at all to activi­ties in the fitness room," stressed Phillips. 
Participating students can keep track of their minutes in the fitness room with the fitness 

Tips for Staying Healthy 
1. 
Dress warn1ly in cold weather. This includes wear­ing hats that cover your ears. 

2. 
Make sure to get more rest, not less. Sleep boosts your immune system. 

3. 
Drink additional fluids. This helps prevent dehydra­tion, combats fever and distributes medication to all body parts. 

4. 
Take Tylenol or Advil for fever and/or body aches. 

5. 
Make sure to eat a well-balanced diet. 

6. 
Wash your hands frequently to avoid spreading germs. 

7. 
Cough into your elbow region instead of into your hands. 

8. 
Follow the advice of parents, nurses and/or physi­cians. 

9. 
Most illnesses will abate with or without formal treatment. 


room coordinator. Each day, when they are fin­ished exercising, they can chart their minutes. If the student cannot be in the fitness room in person to log their hours, he/she can call Peterson at 3432 with the time. 
Each student who meets his/her personal goal by Spring Break will have his/her name entered into a raffle and RecSports will draw names and give away prizes that students who intend to vacation over Spring Break might need. 
"We're not giving away any trips," said Phillips. "But the raffle will give away things that people going on Spring Break will find use­ful. 
Signing up to particpate in the program is free and can be done at the RecSports registra­tion desk at the Rolfs Sports and Recreation Center. Additionally, some aerobics classes, the minutes of which may be counted towards the Challenge U program, are still open. Students interested in signing up for these classes can register and pay at the front desk of RecSports. 

~­
-
...!;'....,._.. 
r '.~ I I ",....
~ 
1' 
Try Your Hand at an 0 
By KRISTI KLITSCH 
Scene Editor 

Does the winter weather have you fooling lethargic"! 
\Veil, HecSports has a solution for the post-Christmas laziness that plagues campus lWery January and Ff~bruary. Next weekend will mark the 13th anniversary of the Late Night Olympics, which will kick off on Friday, January 29 at 7:00 p.m. 
The all-night sports cwent originated with current Director of HecServices and Fitness Sally Derengoski, who brought the idea with her to Notre Dame in 1985, The first year the event was entitled "The Late Night,'' and was modeled after an all-night event held at Indiana University, according to Kara O'Leary, HecServices CoordiJ1ator. The next year the program was cluinged to "Late Night Olympics" and has maintained that name for the past 12 years, said O'Leary. 
In 1987, Late Night Olympics joined forces with the St. Joseph Country chapter of the Special Olympics, in order to raisli money for Special Olympic teams. The annual event has raised more than $45,000 for the St. Joseph chapter and last yftlar's donations totaled more than $6,000. The money is used to cover entrance foes and travel for the Special Olympics basketball tearns and to buy uniforms for the players. 
This year, 13 teams will participate in the Late Night Olympics, and each team \Vill be comprised of either two or three dorms. Dorms will be able to participate in 18 possi­ble events, including volleyball, basketball, nerf football. kickball, broomhall and many others. In addition. thn all•night evPnt will include a basketball ganrn between a team of Special Olympians and a team of rectors/rectresses. "\\'e like this event because it showcases the talent of' the Special Olympic team and i~ shows why we are all there," O'Leary said. Because the event will be held in both the Joyce Center and the new Holfs Sports and Recniation Center, three new events have been added this year, O'Leary said. 
"With the use of the Holfs Sports and Hecrnation Center, we ha,e added team dodgeball, badminton and table tennis to the list of events," she said. "VVe also encourage people to hang around and play pool while they watch the events." 
Friday,January 22, 1999--------------------OTHE 
BSERVER 




an Olympic Gold Medal 
l'he monev is rnd travei" for all tearns and 
ticipatt> in the 1 team will be three dorms. te in 18 possi­.11, basketball. Jall and many ght evPnt will tween a team i a team of "e this event talent of' the ,hows why we Becausf; the 1 Jovce Center 1d Recn•ation ·e been added 
·s Sports and i added team e tennis to the Llso encourage lay pool while 

Everything you need toknow about the influenza vi.rus 
Courtesy ofNew York Department ofHealth 
Wbatjs intluenza.(flu}? ..·..··.. .· .... ·...·••· ... •...·..... ··.··.•....•.• .•.· .. ··.. .·· 
Influenza or flu is a viral infection of .the 11ose, throat. bronchial.·tubes·.and lungs .. There.• are•hvo main types·. of virus; A and·. B. Each types includes many different strains which tendlo ehange each year. 
· 
Whendoes influenza occur? . . . . . 
Influenza occurs most often in .. the winter month$, lUne$ses 
resembling influenza may occur in the summer months but they are usually due to other viruses.· · 
· 
Who gets influenza? 
Anyone can get influenza. but it is most serious in the elder~ ly, in people with chronic underlying illnesses (sl.lch as cancer, emphysema or diabetes) or those with weak immune systems. 
How is it spread? 
Influenza is highly contagious -and is easily transmitted through contact with droplets from the nose and throat of an infected.person during coughing and sneezing. 
What are the symptoms ofinfluenza? 
Typical flu symptoms include headache,fever, chills,cough and body aches. Intestinal symptoms are uncommon: Although most people are ill for only a few days. some people have a much more serious illness, such as pneumonia, al)d may need to hospitalized. Thousands.of people die each year from the flu or related complications. · 
How soon do symptoms appear? 
The incubation period for influenza is one to five days. 
How is influenza diagnosed? Usually, a doctor will diagnose a case ofthe flu based on typ­
. ical symptoms of fever. chills. headache. cough and body aches. Specific lab tests to cQnfirm the flu are costly and time consuming and are usually limited to outbreak or disease sur­veillance methods. 
When and for how long is a·person able·to spread influenza? The contagious period varies. but probably begips the day before symptoms appear and e~tends for a we~k. · · 
.i>l)oes past infection with influenza make aperson immune? Generally, no. The viruses that cause the flu frequently change, so people who have been infected or. given aflu shot in the prevfous years may become infected with a new strain, Because of this, and because any immunity produced by the flu shot will. possibly decrease in the year. after vacc.ination, people in high-.risk groups should be vaccinated every year. 
What are the high risk groups? 
The following groups·are at i11creased riskforserious.ilh),ess with the. flu and shollld receive vaccine: . · · ·· 
•All 
people 65 ye<trs ofage and 9ld~n i .· .. . ,;t{

•Adults 
and children with Iong...tern1 h¢art or. lung probleros; 

•Residents 
ofnursing homes and otherinstitutfons housing patients of any age who have serious long~term health problems; · · · 

•People 
who have kidney disease. cystic fibrosis. diabetes. anemia, severe asthma, cancer or immunological disorders and other medical conditions for which they are under the close supervision of a doctor. 


Others who should receive vaccine include household con~ tacts of higb~risk people and healthcare workers who provide care to high*risk patients. · 
What is the treatment for influenza? 
Rest and liquids are usually adequate. A prescription drug called amantadine may prcvont or reduce the severity of iniluenza type A. but is not effective against type B. 
\\That can be done to control or prevent influenza? 
Routine immunization against influenza. is the most impor~ tant control measure. Influenza vaccines (the flu shot) may be available through your personal physician or local health department. When influenza type A occurs, amantadine may be prescribed for certain individuals. Because new influenza viruses often appear. the effectiveness of the vaccine some• times varies from one year to the next. Nevertheless. studies have shov.rn that even in years when new strains emerge, peo­ple in high•risk groups who obtain annual flu shots tend to have milder illness and are less likely to be hospitalized with complications due to influenza. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and are not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
page 14 The Observer• SPORTS Friday, January 22, 1999 
¦ TRACK ANO ftELD 

Track prepares for Michigan 
By BRIAN HOBBINS 
Sports Wrfrer 
The Notre Dame Men's and Women's Track Teams venture north to the University of Michigan this weekend in their second meet of the season. 
Their competition includes Michigan and Eastern Michigan, but most important­ly themselves. The open for­mat only scores by times and marks rather than for team standings. so many athletes will be looking to improve their marks. 
Coach Joe Piane acknowl­edges the important role the meet will play in determining key players for the rest of the season. 
"This is a great way to start the season and get things rolling," he said, acknowledg­ing that Saturday will be the first time this season many of the athletes run in their race. 
However, many athletes will be running to set the pace for the pinnacle of the indoor sea­son. the Big East Championships. Coach Piane knows the impor,tant role this meet plays in both the indoor and outdoor seasons, "basical­ly. everything builds up to the Big East." 
Having lost hurdles icon Errol Williams as well as Jason Rexing and Barret Junker, Piane admits excitement in finally getting to see some young blue chips perform. 
"I am anxious to see sprinter Liz Grow as well as Luke 
¦ NBA 

Watson in the long distance," he said. 
Other athletes to watch on the men's side of the team include Marshaun West and Chris Cochran in jumps and sprints. West acknowledged that he and many team mem­bers are anxious to get the season started. 
"I trained hard all summer and I just look forward to con­tributing in the best way I can," West said, agreeing that this was the general mood of the team. 
Another hi'ghlight of the Michigan Open will be the arrival of dual athletes Tony Driver and Bobby Brown who arrive this weekend after a few weeks rest upon the com­pletion of another successful football season. 
Consistent scores should be contributed by the Irish dis­tance squad as well. Members including Ryan Maxwell, Antonio Arce, and Ryan Shay are anxious to contribute in the indoor season but acknowledge the adjustments to be made from outdoor to indoor surfaces. 
"It is a hard transition from outdoor to indoor. The shorter distances call for an increase in speed," Shay said. 
Finally. look for strong per­formances by Mike Brown on the pole vault, Jay Hofner in throwing events and Gabe Seaman in the sprints. 
On the women's side of the token, Assistant Coach Tim Connelly highlights Joanna Deeter. Jennifer Englehardt and Nadia Schmiedt as players to watch. 
Deeter has been a long established leader in the dis­tance events while Schmiedt has earned three monograms for her efforts in the hurdles. Englehardt is the teams pre­miere jumper. 
Englehardt's prediction for the season includes steady improvement and a strong performance in the Big East. 
Englehardt's excitement is not without merit, "We have a really strong incoming fresh­
man  class and  no  big losses  
from last year."  
Other  athletes  to  watch  

include sprinters Liz Grow and Carri Lenz as well as distance stars Erin Luby and Alison Klemmer. Finally, freshman Dore Debartolo is grabbing attention as a standout in the throwing events. 
Given the depth and diversity of this growing team the Michigan Open should prove to be a very exciting precursor to the Mayo Invitational at home next weekend. 
"We are looking to get things going against IU in the dual meet," Piane said. While Englehardt acknowledges that running in front of fans makes the events much more excit­ing. 
Finally, with all the hype about the ever looming Big East Championships, the Irish athletes should step things up in what promises to be an exciting weekend. 


the periqd to .glve the Islanders their first lea~!, of the game. Sacco picked off 
Alexei Kovalev•s pass and quickly·fired a shotoverTom Barrasso's blocker. 
Mark Lawrence. got his. fifth g9al of the season at 9:15 of the third period on a perfect setup from . Claude. Lapointe to· make it4~2; 
The Penguins pulled Barrasso with 2:10 left i11 the ga,ll)e but cpuldp.'t scqre.Lapointe hit the ~mpty. net with six seconds remaining to ca.pathre~tpoint nlght.
Kovalev broke it~1 tie at when his power-play shot from .the left .. point hit (slanders center Trevor Linden's stick a.nd. fooled goalie Tommy $alp, making his first startsince··Jall.7. 
Plttsburgh.· scofed oti •its first shot 2:14 into Jhe game. JidSleg:r put a40tfOQt~rpast
Salo Qn the short $ide ·for his ffrst goal ln 23 games this season. 
Lapointe tied the score at 
3:32 with his ninth goal. Slegr lost the puck in the neutral zQne and Ziggy Pa.lffy made a nice pass to set up Lapointe, who beat Barrasso from 25 feet. 
The Penguins played their first game since returning from a 1-3 Western trip. 

Rodman changes mind, will take the court in '99 
Associated Press 
JERSEY CITY. New Jersey 
The on-again, off-again NBA career of Dennis Rodman is back on, at least for now. 
In a message posted on his Internet site, the seven-time NBA rebounding champion announced Wednesday that he wanted to return for another season. A day earlier, Rodman said he planned to retire, then changed his mind once again, claiming in a television inter­view that he planned only tosit out the upcoming season. 
Rodman, a member of the last three NBA championship teams for the Chicago Bulls and cur­rently a free agent, then chose the Internet to announce he was changing his mind once again. 

"OK, so here's the deal," the flamboyant Rodman said on the Internet. "I've had some~(' longdiscussions with the people I love, the ones whose opinions matter the most to me, and I'vedecided not to retire after all. 
"I know yesterday I said I was history. With the NBA lockout and everything going on, I real­lythought I should stop playing. But I've been reviewing my options and those options still include playing in the NBA this season with a contender. Chicago, New York and L.A. are all cities I'd 
like to play in. Playing over­seas could be pretty cool. too." 
Rodman said he would elabo­rate on his decision when he appears on the "Thfl Tonight Show" on Friday evening. 
The 37-year-old Rodman has led the NBA in both rebounding and strange behavior. He has won championships with the Bulls the last three seasons and with the Detroit Pistons in 1989 and 1990. 
His rebounding expertise, however, comes at a price. He once kicked a cameraman in the groin and is known for sometimes missing practices and team flights and ignoring coaches and team rules. 
Easily identified by his tattoos 
and ever-changing hair color, Rodman has maintained that 
' I STILL HAVE TO COME BACK FOR AT LEAST ONE MORE GAME SO THAT I 
CAN GET BUCK NAKED ON 
THE COURT.' 

DENNIS RODMAN 
FREE AGENT FORWARD 
after his last game he would strip off his uniform and leave the court nude. 
"There's the one thing I've always told my fans I would do in my last game that I still 
haven't done," Rodman wrote on his Web.site. ''I'm sure you know what that is. But I still have to come back for at least one more game so that I can 
get buck naked on the court." 

Rodman began his NBA 
career with the Pistons in 1986 
and was a key member of their 
back-to-back championship 
teams. He was NBA Defensive 
Player of the Year in 1990 and 
1991 and earned All-Star 
berths in 1990 and 1992. 

Rodman began his string of seven straight -rebounding titles in 1992 with Detroit and contin­ued the streak in 1994 and 1995 with the San Antonio Spurs. Rodman was acquired by the Bulls in October 1995. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall, Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid.
Classifieds · 

The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES 
Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise!5Nights $279!Includes Meals & Free Parties!Awesome Beaches,NightlifelDeparts From Florida!Cancun & Jamaica $399! springbreaktravel.com 1-800-678•6386 
Spring Break Panama City $129!Boardwalk Room w/Kitchen Next To Clubs!? Parties-Free Drinks!Daytona $149!South Beach $129!Cocoa Beach $149! springbreaktravel .com 1-800-678-6386 
WANTED 
SALES & MARKETING 
INTERNSHIPS University Directories offers paid.full-time summer sales and marketing internships.open to all disciplines.College credit avail­able. Training program.Great resume booster! 1(800)743-5556 or www.universitydirectories.com 
Piano Trumpet Sax Guitar & Bass 

Players for Shenanigans Band--tor 3 big shows and optional spring break tour. Call Meg at 4-2573.
I 

FOR RENT 
HOOSE FOR RENT. 
TWO BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. 4•5 BR. Available June tor Summer. August for Fall. Dishwasher, Washer/Dryer, Full Basement. Large Backyard and Off Street Parking. MONITORED SECURITY SYSTEM INCLUDED. CAll 289-4712. 
WALK TO SCHOOL 
2·6 BEDROOM 
STARTING $185 

MONTH/PERSON 
232-2595 

NICE HOMES FOR NEXT 
SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND 
8,6.4,3.BEDROOM 2773097 
3BEDAOOM HOME IN ROSE­
LAND AVAILABLE NOW 2773097 
HOUSE FOR RENT 
5 bedrooms. 2 baths, dishwasher, washer/dryer, safe neighborhood close to campus, alarm system, central air, large living area, fenced yard, wood floors, one large oriental rug, $1100/mo. Call Bill @675­0776. 
3 bdrm. duplex, remodeled. 501 Eddy St. 1 mi. from campus. Appliances, w/d. 
273-8332. 
'99-'00 LOADED!6 Bedrm. $800
i21•;~;~E 
Beautiful brass bed.queen size.with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame.New,never used.still in plas­tic.$225 219-862-4043 
Computer 486 33MHz $350 OBO x3533 
For sale: Digitech RP·20 guitar floor pre-amp/effects proces­sor. Ex. condition, only 1 year old. $350 o.b.o Call Brendan at 287­9910. 

-·--------·-------····-·· LAPTOP PC P-133 w/ MMX Office 97, Windows95 32MB RAM, Carrying Case And Much More! Call Patrick@ 634-1236 
NEW Rates Phone Cards 282 min.$20 call 258-4805 
Apple Multiple Scan 15" Monitor: $100.00 

BOB DYLAN 1st .5 ROWS WWF. RINGSIDE 1st. 10 rows 272-7233. 
PERSONAL 
B. 

Do you want to read something bad? Read the inside column ...... -M 
This weekend marks the one year anniversary of "The Friction Dome,' 
the greatest party in the history of Siegfried Hall. May all who were there remember it fondly, and return for another round tomorrow_ 
wow, they sure do fill up those blue cups ... 
hcurglass is not a good nickname, date. 
I'm trying to be integrated into the guy's dorm, so I want to be manly. 
well, maybe not that manly. 
diane, do you miss our cuddling? 
I know heartland wasn't the same without me. 
Tubular. Groovy to the extreme. 
I hope this mcglinn syr isn't can­celled. 
the lice have left the building. 
and so have i. Goodnight from 
MAC_ 

---·-------····----­EVERY DAY I CLOSE MY EYES • AND thank the lord that i have u 
Nightswimming started years ago. Why cannot all these people under­stand? 
There ii goes up in the sky. there it goes way up in the clouds and there's no reason why. I can't cry hard enough. 
Dylan, when did you get in? 
-·----------·--·····-··---­

1cleared customs half an hour ago. 
Kelly, you don't look happy lo see me. 
I'm jusL shocked 
Next week... he goes into a coma 
alien--i hate roses. my least favorite flower. always have been. 
----------·-·-··--·----­
and i already had answers to all your questions. cirrus. apples slic­ing. heather in the breeze. 
Goodnight. dear world. 


a a D S 2 &£ a
•

--• -I 
Friday, January 22, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 15 
¦ WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Louderback expects big performance in Minnesota 
By Wes Jacobs Sports Writer 
Tonight. women's tennis r,oach Jay Louderback will haVfl the chance to see what his troops are made of when the sixteenth ranked Irish tennis team travels to Minneapolis, Minnesota, to take on the Blue Demons of Depaul in the Federated Insurance Court Classic. 
This match will be the team's first since completing their fall schedule in Nov(~mber. If victo­rious, Louderback's squad will advance to the championship and face either 15th-ranked Pepperdine or Minnesota. 
Despite the extended layoff, members of the team expect to come out sharp. 
"A lot of the girls played dur­ing the break," Louderback 
: r­
: 
1 1 
I I 
1­
:~::~ 
I Nill¦
: :: .....-~  :  
I  Register in Advance  at RecSports  I  
I  For More  Info .  Call  1-6100  I  
I  Demonstration  I  
I  Tuesday, January 26,  Rockne Rm.  219 6:30PM  I  
I  Z?4¼!-~  I  

I www.nd.cii.u/~recsport
~----------------------JI 
...., ... 

. , ,;/~~lti}-~-;---~ 
~· .­
,i; 

'!:.....-(4."t ;~.'. ··"· ~'ti' ~ )'-; ~;fl-,\; -fii"
·--· 

Room 023 
LaFortune Student Center 

rmHTING !fi!SH 

Your new place to ship all your packages, conveniently 
Notre Dame Fans ... Show Your Colors "FIGHTING IRISH" Blue and Yellow 
located in the center ofcampus. 
28x40 $17.95 + $l S&H Money Back Banner Guarantee 
Greal for Gilt'I. OOlms i!lld Stadiums 

MMER FLAGS &FLAG POLE SAL 
~CurveRoutt41A~ngdon (

Hours 
(309) 462-2690 1 IIOO) 214-3222 


coupon
M, W, F 3pm-6pm 
T, Th 11am-6pm 
Sat llam-2pm 

~ 

-
~; . _, a;)?• 
,., . 
:·.....~~ ~-\h:" :· < ,• ~i
UPS pick up weekdays at 4pm. 
"':..-' ?, ](~-{:J' ;--~ . ·. 
i-..• .• . . 

lff$1l'Vft\41( ffill(; 

Voted: Area's Best Tanning Center Every Year 
Conze visit us and let us take care 
r-----------.-----, r-----------------,
: 10 tanning : or : 1 month :
ofall your shipping! 
1 


1 
1 sessions l l of unlimited tanning : 
I I I
631-3942 
: S30 : : S35 :
L-----------------J L_________________J 
Uniwrsit)· Commons (;rapt• & \kKinh•y 
by (7' Mull ,war K.llart 
272-7653 256-9656 
3rd NEW location Southland Plaza at Ireland & Ironwood 291-2000 
---------. not sure what to expect. 
Shorin-Ryu : Karate : 
1
•Di.scipl ine 

•Self-Defense 1 
•Self Confidence I 
•Fitness I ,_.. --• I 
-~~~ -~~ : 
I 

said. "And three even played in a tournament in Texas. We're not the only team that will have a little rust." 
While last year's team was hurt by a lack of depth, the 1999 version should be strong from top to bottom of the line­up, and will rely on slots four through six in the singles matches to put them over the top in some close matches. 
The team returns five of 1998 's top seven players, including All-American senior Jennifer Hall, senior Marisa Velasco, ranked number 73 for singles players in the NCAA, and sophomore Michelle Dasso, who last season as a freshman broke the Notre Dame single­season wins record, compiling an amazing 40 wins. 
Slots four through six are expected to be filled with three underclassmen. Freshman Becky Varnum brings an unde­feated high school resume to Notre Dame. and she expects to step right into the line-up. Junior Kelly Zalinski and fresh­man Lindsey Green arc expect­ed to round out the singles line­up for the squad. Expect fresh­man Nina Vaughan and sopho­more Kimberly Guy to step in as well. 

As for doubles. Louderback has reason to be excited about his team's depth. 
"We have four teams which are all very close in ability," said Louderback, who expects to rotate the duos in and out of the three doubles slots. Dasso and Hall expect to see a lot of action, and Varnum and Velasco will n_ot be far behind them. 

Coming into the match with Courtesy of Sports Information Depaul, Louderback is 
Senior Marisa Valesco will be counted on tonight as the Fighting Irish take on the Blue Demons of Depaul tonight in Minnesota. 
During the fall, the Blue Demons played respec­
meets Sund.iy l~2!3Q .. p.m. {ind
w¦ SPORts·•·BRIEFS
tively, fielding a very Thursday· 6:30--7.:45 p.m.&in 
young team. With the 

·.. JA7.Z DANCE --:-Come. to the 
apparent addition of 

Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 
some international talent, 

· cfrvity Room zt<> get more 
however, the Demons 

hlf<)fmati?n..qa~ses wiH .. meet 
could present problems 

Satµ:rday~ from '.t2:30t2 p.m.
for the Irish. Notre Dame 

and 'fues<l~ys fi;om 7;45"9 p.m.
has never lost to Depaul, 

~ osJ j~ .$,~:-?• ,f.~r additional 
having won the previous 

1nformat1on, pJease contact 
six matches dating back 

RecSports at•ti6t.00. 
·:.,::k:::~t~Wf
to their first win in 1978. 
If the Irish can 

SWING DANCE -All levels 
advance, they will possi­

are welcdme fpr this semester 
bly get a shot at rival 

loOg cotifse that meets on 
Pepperdine. The Waves' 

Wednesdays from 6:30-8 p.m.could be even stronger 
in RSRC Activity Room 2. To 
than their number 15 

find out more, Please attend 
ranking, as they have 

the information meeting being also added foreign talent. 
held at 6:30 p.m. on 
"We are real1y looking 

Wednesday in the RSRC. Cost 
forward to getting a 

for the class is $20 and space
chance to play them," 

is limited to the first 25 
said an excited 

females and 25 males that reg­
Louderback. 

isteJ> If you have any quett~tions. please contact RecSports at 1..6100. 
MODERN DANCE -This class will be tailored for a range of. abilities. Semester long course that will meet Saturday 11 a.m.~12:30 p.m. and Tuesday 6:30-7:45 p.m. Cost for the class is $35. For more. information, please con~ tact RecSports at 1'-6100. 
BEGINNER BALLET -No experience necessary for this introduction to ballet. Class 
RSRC Activity Room 2, .co~for the class is $35. '<M1> 
• -C· ••.•--. ·-· ·.·.-· • .-: " --·· 

ADVANCEi) IALL~T...•. 
'This 

seinestt5r···long course meet$ on Sunday 2:30~4 p.m. and Thursday. '7;45;9 p . .tn, ..<:o$J for the class Js $35. Pointe wilfbe . offered on SundaysA~4:45.p.m: 
CostJor·•J>oint~ is/qµ!y$S~ .. ··••·· 
··-. ·,•q:-:-: 

SH ORIN ~RVU KARATE.­
Students are i11Structed according to traditional Okinawan techniques. This semester~long course meets in Rockne 219 on Tuesdays and Thursdays 6-7:30 p.rr1. starting on Jan. 28. There will be a demonstration on Tuesday. Jan. 26 in Rockne 219 at 6:30 
p.m. Cost is $18 for the semes­ter. You must register at RecSports. For more informa• tion, please contact RecSports atl-6100. 
CROSS-COUNTRY SKI 
CLINICS -Put all this snow to good use! Pick one or more of the following clinics to attend.Jan. 23 at 4 p.m,, Feb. 6 at 10 a.m .. or Feb. 1:..l at 2 p.m. Come spend a Saturday on the snow covered Notre Dame Gol Course! Please register in advance at RecSports, Co$t is only $5. 


/ 


page 16 The Observer• SPORTS Friday, January 22, 1999 
l 
'i I 
l 
' 
l ! 
IJ 
I 
¦ NBA 

Gieger to help 76ers measure up 
Associated Press 
PHH.ADELPHIA 
Allen Iverson calmly. prac­
ticed free · throws, and 
Philadelphia 76ers president 
Pat Croce fetched the rebounds. 
Matt Geiger, one of the 
newest Sixers, talked about a 
new start after a messy parting 
with Charlotte. . 
Theo Ratliff walked onto the 
c(n)rt.wearing a strikingly styl~ 
ish suit;• new duds for a ma.n 
who'd justsigned his first big . 
NBA contract. 
'fh.e Slx~rs were orie of the 
lmsiest teams. Thursday as the
NBA {}fficially opened for busi... ··ness.after the long, costly lock­out. . 
. "lHke high-intensity, short · dtirationtLet's• gol"Jhe ener;.. getic Ctoce saicl.; ··1ivery garne 
·counts1'' ;;,'c, · · ... >..·. ··· ·••··.·· •··.·.·.· ·· ··· ·•• ·.

W/Befoh~th~ ga.tiie~;ther~was ···n1s••shot}tin,g:••.. ije appeais·to be ·· plenty ofhusinf$s: . . · . · · iii great shape .and a good ···.•·•· As·. e;xpeqJe<\~i. ~~~ Six.~rs.. franie of Illind despit~motint-· .si~ed.~igeeyr~ .reported.~st,.••.... ing personalproblell}$ *'again•.• ;tniJJion~. six:ye~t~~l)~~t!cf. t~"E irtvol~g c11rs, ..· .. ' ..· · .. ·. . . · . sign~g .Jlatliff ~(fa .sf!Vf}n-.y~ttrMvvtast.'vveek•..Mercedes;.B~nz . .. d ealI}1lnd ·. alsb ,if~~~<I .•ifree . Cr~dit C.rp..s~~dlverson·.Jor. 
It's a. younger team. And with 
coach Brown, I've just liked some ofthe things he's always done; . 
"I like the fans here," Geiger said. ''They want to see a win­ner." 
Geiger said a long dispute with Hornets coach Dave Cowens about the extent of a hamstring injury he had late fast ~eason didn'taffect his decision. 
i,l had an.injury. and c9ach Cowens said stuff like my leg ought·to be ·falling off and· sev-· ered not to playt Qeigersaid. "Ldecided J wanted to wait un.tilit was fully healed, and at that time. he decided notto play me. It justescalated·into some­thing. but it wasn't that big a deal.:'. · 
lve:rsoii spe;nt much .of. the . 
tei,im'$ n1edia d.~y Wor,t,;ing on • 
age9ts<Harv£?yGI'aht {two
yea.ni, $2,1.~iUi011J and George 
Lynch (one year at the mini.-. 
mum)> . ·. •.. ·.· ......·.. ·..·.··· ··..... ·. 
Also. Philadelphia signed·. its 
three draft picks •,-.,., Larry . Hughes, Nazr Mohammed and 
CaseyShaw -and acquired 6­foot-8"forward Mirsad Turkcan from Houston; !urkcanwas the ·.. R<>fkets' first-round. pick last June who was playing in his 
homeland ofTurkey. 
Gone is Derrick Goleman, 
who signed with the Hornets. 
The schedule released 
Thursday haS Philadelphia
opening at Charlotte on Feb. 5. 
The.Sixers• first home game is 
Feb,. 6 against Orlando. 
..The toughest part for me is 
to $etJhese guys the prepara-. 
tHYn that they need," Sixers 
coach Larry Brown said. "J 
don't want to punish them 
because of the lockout, but I've 
got to work them hard. You 
can't afford not to be ready 
from the beginning." · 
Geiger said he signed with 
the Sixers because, ··1 felt the 
opportunities were better here. 

more than $?8,.50.0in unpaid . lease. payments on threeJate­model cars. The suit also asks 
for.the return of the. ca.rs ll,lld
for the. t.ota.l bvyout amount, about $300,000.on the·.24­month lease vehicles. · 
"ldidn't kno\V unti[the arti­cle came out;" Iverson said. "It was gomething th.at my accoun­tantwtts supposed to handle. Something happened and it didn't get done, I guess. 1don't even know that much of it. I 
· talked to him and he said he'll take care of it. He told me it was nonsense. So I let him take 
· care ofit.'' 
Whatever his personal prob­lems, lversonJseems more determined than ever to really begin to make his mark this season .,. especially. with Michael Jordan retired. 
"Not one player is going to be able to fill those shoes/' Iverson said. "You could get a group of athletes, maybe 10 or 15. and all those feet probably don't fit. I don't think there's going to be one guy that docs it the way he did it." 
How Would You Score? 
,,--.,,LSAT MCAt-··<.., 
, -----------------. 
~ 

, GMAT GRE DAT * '­
Take a Free Test Drive 
and find out! 
Notre Dame Test Drive 
Saturday, February 6, 1999 
Call today to reserve your seat! 
~ 
Apr\\ 10 \s \\ GRE­

KAPLAN
paper & ~l(aplant Re prepared:.::.--­

=-:---1 ·800-KAP·TEST 
www.kaplan.com 
·Test namM are raoist.n,d lrademaru ol their respecuva owners. 
¦ NHL 

Islanders coach deserts team 
Associated Press 

PITTSBURGH 
Mike Milbury stepped down as coach of the New York Islanders today, turning the 
struggling NHL team  over to  
assistant Bill Stewart.  
Milbury  said  he  would  

remain as general manager of the team, which is mired in an 11-gamc winless streak. 
It was the second time Milbury has left the Islanders coaching job. 
He coached the team in l 995-96, then turned it over to Rick Bowness midway through the next season. Milbury then fired Bowness last March 11, returning to the bench for the balance of that season and the start of 1998­99. 
The Islanders, who have won only three games since Nov. 26, are 0-10-1 in their last 11 games. After they lost to Florida 5-2 at home Wednesday night, Milbury accused the team of quitting. 
"This will be quick," Milbury said after the game. "It's unacceptable. It looked like they quit. We had no jump, no spunk and we were disorga­nized. That was a stinker without much sign of effort. We've got to do something about it." 
Fans hooted the Islanders, chanting, "Mike Must Go." 
Observer Sports: Your source for national sports headlines 
Miibury has come under heavy criticism, especially for the recent trade of 21-year-old defenseman Bryan Berard to Toronto for holdout goal­tender Felix Potvin. 
Milbury, 46, who spent 20 years in the Boston Bruins organization as player, coach and front office executive, came to the Islanders as coach on July 5, 1995. He assumed the general manager's job from Don Maloney on Dec. 12, 1995. 
He had a record of 56-111­24 as Islanders coach. In two seasons coaching the Bruins from 1989-91. Milbury's teams went 90-49-21 and reached the Stanley Cup finals once. 
Last May, after new owners took over the team, Milbury signed a five-year extension to coach the Islanders. 
The new owners restruc­tured the coaching duties, adding four assistants, includ­ing an offensive and defensive coordinator. 
"ln the end, this is a model to make my role infinitely eas­ier," Milbury said at the time. "I enjoyed that there were a lot of aspects to the [general manager's) job, but there's nothing like being in the pit. There's a new energy to it." 
Stewart led the St. John's Flames of the AHL to a 43-24­13 record and a berth in the Calder Cup final during the 1997-98 season. · 

SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE Student l Activities Board (SAB) Spring 1999 E11ents 
7pm 

January  
15 "Rounder's" Carroll Auditorium 8pm  Mmh 3 Open Mic Night Dalloway's  
16 Hotel Prati (band)  8-10 pm  
Dalloway's 9-11pm  19 "You've Got Mail" Carroll Auditorium  
20 Open Mic Night  8pm  
Dalloway's 8-10 pm  April  20 "You've Got Mair Carroll Auditorium  
February 5 Think Fast (Game Show) Noble Dining Hall (Win $200 cash) 11 :30·1 :30 pm 25 Frederick Winters, hypnotist Dalloway's 8pm  14 Open Mic Night Dalloway's 8-10 pm 22 SMCTostal Library Green 12 pm-12 am  8pm 24 Frances Dilorinzo, comedienne Le Mans Lobby 8 pm 27 Junior Mom's Weekend/ Classics Weekend "An Affair to Remember" "Casablanca" Carroll Auditorium  
26 "Beloved"  7 pm and 9 pm  
(panel discussion to follow movie) Carroll Auditorium  28 "Gone With the Wind" Carroll Auditorium  

7pm ~ 
~ ~ i tt-i..,.E3l -. -~ 
Celebrate President's Day 

Bring this ad in when you switch your direct deposit to Notre Dame Federal Credit Union and take a few portraits ofyour favorite presidents home.* 
Framing optional. 

r4 NOTRE DAME
w• 

FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
For People. Not For Profit. 
·l\11.bt he a fw! time employee and direct deposit your net pay. 
www.ndfcu.org (219) 239-6611 (800) 522-661 I 
~ ~ 
lndependem of the University 

Friday, January 22, 1998 
The Observer• SPORTS page 17 
¦ NBA 
Timberwolf flees pack for Phoenix 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX 

The Phoenix Suns are close to a deal with free agent Tom Gugliotta, a source close to the situation told The Associated Press today. 
No contract has been signed, but the source, speak­ing on the condition of anonymity, said "there is a substantial Chance" that Gugliotta wo u Id sign with Phoenix. 
The Suns turned up the heat on their efforts to sign Gugliotta since they learned Wednesday night that Antonio McDyess would not re-sign with Phoenix and instead wou Id go to the Denver Nuggets. 
Phoenix renounced 10 free agents, including McDyess. today in the first step to clear the salary cap room needed to sign Gugliotta. The Suns also were expected to trade three players to Chicago for Luc Longley, another move that would allow them more cap space. 
In that deal, already con­firmed by the Suns, the Bulls would sign Longley to a con­tr act, then trade him to Phoenix for Mark Bryant, Martin Muursepp and Bubba Wells. 
Suns general manager Bryan Colangelo said Wednesday night that the team would be abl!~ to clear a maximum of about $8 million to offer a free agent. That's short of the $9 million maxi-· mum allowed under the new collectivP bargaining agree­ment, but the source said the figu rt\S \Ve re c I ose enough that it wouldn't be a problem. 
The six-year. $52.8 million contract would contain a clause allowing Gugliotta out of the deal after five years, when he would be eligible for a much bigger raise as a 10­year veteran. 
Gugliotta averaged 20.1 points per game· for the Tirnberwolves last season but missed 41 games after under­going foot surgery. 
lie could have made $86 million over seven years by re-signing with Minnesota but has indicated all along that the money would not prevent him from signing vvith a team that he felt was the right fit for him. 
'THERE IS A SIGNlfl­
CANT CHANCE 
[GUGLIOTTA WILL SIGN 
WITH PHOENIX].' 
ANONYMOUS 
Bryan Colangelo identified the 6-foot-10 forward as one of the "big three" free agents up for grabs this season. The others were Scottie Pippen, expected to be signed by Chicago and traded to Houston, and McDyess. 
Gugliotta. 29, played four seasons in Minnesota after two seasons with the Washington Bullets. 
In addition to McDyess, the Suns renouncnd Kevin Johnson, George McCloud, Mike Brown, Horacio· Llamas, Loren Meyer. Marko Milic, Dennis Scott, Wayman Tisdale and Ilot Hod Williams. 
¦ NBA 

Mailman stays with Jazz 
Associated Pren 
SALT I.AKE CITY 
Karl Malone's offseason odyssey has ended, and the perennial All~Star is right back where he began~ 
During an emotional pr.ess conference on Thursday morning. Malone and Utah Jazz owner Larry Miller left almost no doubt the power forward will finish his career in Utah. Hours later, Malone joined his Jazz teammates for workouts on the first day of training camp. 
"You say things sometimes that you wish you wouldn't have said. It takes a bigger man to adrnithe was wrong,'' Malone said. "l apologize for .a lot of thing~ 1 said.. The St'1ff that happened this summer made me grow up·quick." 
Malone, Miller and Malonets agent. Dwight Manley. all said they lnten<!. to keep the Mailman inUtah. 
They also criticized ;a~ untrue. an earlier reporfthat they had already agreed. to a four-year extension. Malone has one year remaining on hi.s current contract and will be paid. $3.7. m.illion duringt~e abbreviated season. ·• 
"I have ahvays been commjt.. ted to keeping Karl in a Jazz uniform for the rest of hJs career ... and I am sure that we're going to be able to do that," the tea,ry-eyed, MHl~~ said. "rd like tc0 have an agreement right. now, brtt that's not possible." 
Malone and Miller hadn't spoken for weeks before an intense. lengthy conversation on Wednesday night. They said they emerged from the meeting with a spoken agree.. ment to work out a lucrative, long-term deal as soon as pos­sible. 

"I'm looking forward to play* ing my career out here in Utah," said the 35-year-old Malone. 
Miller and Manley said they had lobbied for an addition to the NBA's collective bargain­ing. agreement that would allow teams to sign players who have been in the league for 12 years and with their teams for 10 years to exten­sions for an unlimited amount of money. 
"Karl is one ofthe only play­ers like that.>' Manley said. 
The addition wasn't made to the agreement, but the Jazz have petitioned the league for a waiver that would allow them to sign the 1997 .MVP to a similar contracL If the waiv.­er is granted~ Miller said. the Jazz will be quickto act; 
"As soon as the agreement allows us tq talk about an extension. atthefirst opportu~ nity, we.'lldoit," Miller said...... 
Ifthe W<l}ver isn't grante~, Jl.O deal couJUbe complete4 
µntil nextsummer, when Malone wt>uid become a free agent for the first time in his career. Manley said the Jazz "will obviously have the. first and best shot" to signMaloµe. 
Malone h::t~L dabbled lri everythin.)s from pro wrestling to talk radio.since the Jazz lost the NBA Finals to the Chicago. BuHslast June. He also made a much..publicized vow to never again play in Utah. 
With the lockout over and the Jazz a strorig favorite ,to contend for their first NBA title, Malone said he decided the grass was greener on his own side of the fence. 
"It takes a man to admit he was wrong," Malone said. "My family and l want to spend the rest of our lives in Utah." 
Miller admits that his 
famously close relationship with Malone was strained dur~ ing the offseason. 
''It seemed, without talking to him, that a new Karl had emerged," Miller said. "{But] the Karl Malone r know and love is still alive and well." 
Manley. who. has endured criticism in the Utah media for his imagined role in Malone's odd offseason, was praised by Malone and Miller. 
"My role has never been to divide Larry and Karl,'' Manley said. "Everything that happened privately over the last two weeks made it clear that Karl wants to stay here in Utah." . 
Gail Miller and Kay Malone, wives of the owner .and the player~ sattogether during the press confere.nee. The families live only minutes apart in an affiuent hillside suburb of Salt Lake City. 
"I drive pasfhis house every night and every morning and l think aboutbim/' Larry. Miller· said. "Mayhe we've got too emotionallydependent on each other, ldon't know." 
During first-day workouts at the team's new training facili-· ty1n suburban \Vest Valley City. Jazz players expressed 
· relief. their. co~captain would be back. Malone was the only one of the 10 Jazz players under contract who didn't participate in yoluntary, infor­mal workouts with the team. "l really hctd no doubt Karl and Larry would work some­thing out." guard John Stockton said. "This is Karl's home, and this team knows him very well." "Getting Karl back doesn't change our plans for the sea­son," coach Jerry Sloan said; "If it hadn't worked out, then you'd see a different look on ·my face." 



page 18 The Observer • SPORTS 


Officiating needs to improve 
By TED FOX 


Spom Wriwr 
On a cold and stormy night over \\inter bn~ak. a night which was not fit for mP or my car to be traveling anywlwre. I spent the night at home with my mom and dad. As 11 :30 rolled around, we started to watch Jay Lnno·s monologue on The Tonight Show. 
What follovved was an insight into a huge problem in today's National Football League. 
One of Leno's jokes was a pre­diction for the Il<'W year: NFL ref­erees would now bP allowed to take their seeing-eye dogs onto the field with them in order to make the right calls. 
This was, of course, an exag­geration meant to shovv the prob­lem of missed calls plaguing the league this year. 
Now, on the \vhole. these offi­

I: 
I 
cials do a good job. But some of their calls have to make you 
' t 
wonder: What play was that guy 

i 
watching?

!' 
,( 
Case in point: two weekends ago. the San Francisco 49ers met the Green Bay Packers at 3Com Park in San Francisco in first round playoff action. 
\J./ith less than two minutes left, Packer quarterback Brett Favre hit wide receiver Antonio Freeman in the endzone for a touchdown. The ensuing extra point gave the Packers a five point lead and. seemingly, con­trol of the game. 
However. Steve Young, know­ing his team needed to drive the length of the field if it hoped to win. started the 49ers on what would be the game's final drive. 
The drive end<)d with a bullet pass into the arms of a diving Terrell Owens a lew foct into the endzone in the dosing seconds, keeping the 49ers alive in their quest to reach Super Bowl XXXIIL 


But it shouldn't have. 
Earlier in the drive, Young dumped a short pass off to one of his receivers who was immedi­ately wrapped up by the Green Bay defense. Tlw hit caused the ball to pop loose. a loose ball that the Packers recovered. 
But the referee on the spot ruled the pass incomplete. That meant that loose ball wasn't real­ly a fumble, which meant the Packers hadn't recovered any­thing, which meant the 49ers drive continued, which meant Green Bay's season was over. 

Don't get me wrong: the Packers still could have stopped San Francisco and won the game. But the point is that it shouldn't have come to that. Had the referees made the correct call, the game would have had a difl~rent outcome. 
This game was not an isolated case. Iri a late season game between the Seattle Seahawks and New York Jets, the officials awarded Jets quarterback Vinny Testaverde a game-winning touchdown when only his helmet, not the ball, broke the plane of the goal line. This devastated a Seahawk team fighting for its playoff life. 
My personal favorite miscue was on Thanksgiving day when my hometown Detroit Lions squared off against the Pittsburgh Steelers at the fabled Pontiac Silverdome. Here, in the fourth quarter of a tight game, Lions wide receiver Johnny Morton caught a huge touch­down pass that gave the Lions control of the game. Only prob­lem: the refs disallowed the touchdown after the ground jarred the ball loose. 
That call fit nicely next to the Lions interception they ruled an incomplete pass earlier in the game. But none of these were my favorite. 
No, that distinction goes to the mishap on the coin toss. Yes, the coin toss. The time when the coin goes up in the air, the visiting player picks either "heads" or "tails", and then the ref checks to see if his call matches what the coin shows. Pretty straightfor­ward. 
Well, it is, except when the ref forgets what the guy just said and awards the toss to the other team. 
Oops. 
So how do we fix this situation'? 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
•Used 
books bought and sold 

•25 
Categories of Books 

•25,000 
Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

•Out-of-Print 
search service: $2.00 

•Appraisals 
large and small 


Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 
The return of instant replay. 

That is the key to remedying these mistakes. Like all of us, ref­erees are only human. They're doing the best they can, but foot­ball is a fast paceed game, and they're going to miss calls. Give them the advantage that we have at home. and get the calls right so teams can't blame losses on missed calls. 
Some may say this will make the games drag on too long, but I think the accuracy is worth the extra time. Besides, the confer­ences that are held on the field now trying to decide on a call take just about as long as review­ing the tape would. 
But before any of this can hap­pen, we have to play a Super Bowl between the defending champion Denver Broncos and the upstart Atlanta Falcons. 
Let's hope we don't find any more reasons for instant replay on the 31st. 
John M. Marshall's, Inc. 
Established 1965 
Diamonds Engagement Rings & Wedding Bands 18karat Yellow Gold & Platinum. 
-

Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely with information in our complimentarybook, Diamonds Magnified, 186 pages, 2nd edition, hardbound. 
John M. Marshall 
Jeweler / Gemologist / Mineralogist 

Wolfie's 
Pasta, Sandwiches, Service & More! 
Location: 

-in the Campus Shoppes -1835 South Bend Ave. -Between Ironwood and Edison 
Hours: 
-Sunday to Thursday I lam to lam -Friday and Saturday 11am to 3am 

FREE DELIVERY 
243-9911 
($5 Mirumum • Limited Delivery Area -Driven Carry Less Than $20) 

1e's 


Super Bowl Special!!!! 
Get a free order of 6 wings (hot, mild or BBQ) with each two foot Party Sub ordered 48 hours in advance! Call Wolfie's at 243-9911 for menu information! (expires 1/31/99) FREE DELIVERY 
Friday, January 22, 1999 
Women 

"They are a pretty good team," Ivey said. "We have to go out
continued from page 24 

there and contain them, but also 
and arc 4-0 against tlrnm all­time, including a 94-57 victory in the first round of last year's Big East Tournament. Sheila McMillen lit up St. John's for a Big East Tournament and school 
'WEHAVE TO MAKE 
SURE NONE OF 
THEIR PLAYERS GO OUT 

THERE AND HAVE A CAREER 
NIGHT.' 

NEILE fvEY 
!RISH GUARD 
record eight three pointers. Notre Dame also beat St. John's last Feb., as Riley and Green each had 13 points. 
St. John has improved a great deal since then and will look to upset the Irish. 
control the ball and not have too many turnovers." 
St. John's is 9-11 on the sea­son, but 0-4 against ranked teams. The Hed Storm have dropped four of their last five 
with their lone win during that stretch coming against West Virginia. On Wednesday. they fell to Pittsburgh, 75-58. Latasha Thompson came off the bench and had five steals and 17 points on 7-of-17 shooting. Forward Ebony Dickinson, St. John's leading scorer (averaging 19 points per game), had miserable shooting performance (2-of-11) and just seven points. St. John's shot just 35 percent as a team and had 22 turnovers. 
"We have to make sure none of their players go out there and have a career night," Ivey said. "We need to shut them down and get the job done. A win will give us a boost in the right direc­tion heading into the end of the season." 
( 
>TRED ~RTME 
Now Leasing For Fall 1999 
••  Conveniently located 4 Blocks from Campus Student Lease Available or One Month free rent with a year lease  
•  Large 2-Bedrooms for under $500.00!!  
00Tfbe !Best \lalue lfn O.rrc L· . :19Ii£ amIJP1lll.S , JJ v1ng  
Professionally Managed by  
Real Estate Management Corp.  
234-9923  



ZS es L a au 
Friday, January 22, 1999 
The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
Unity, training fuel Belles on to Conference 

By Katie Furman 
Sports Writer 
The height of the Saint M·ary's Belles swimming season began as the team hopped off the plane and into the wintry cold December snow which greeted them. 
Remembering only the 70 degree temperatures that they longed to return to, the Belles bravely marched through the snow, and yes, into another swimming pool. 
Since their training trip to Florida ended, the Belles swim team, led by coach Jini Cook and captains Tara Thomas and Michelle Samreta, began focus­ing on and obtaining their goals. 
"As a result of the training trrp we came together with more team unity," freshman breast-stroker Megan Zolman said. "Now we jump up and cheer for everyone. There is a lot more 

Ameal so good,it already comes with seconds. 
Try our tasty Two~Fors. 2 burgers. 2 small fries. Just $2.22. 
(Price and participation may vary.) 
The Huddle -Lafortune Student Center 
~ 
BURGER 
KING 
~ 
It just tastes better. 
©1998 Burger King Corporation Burger King Corporation i.s the exclusive licensee of the registered Bun Halves logo trademark. 
spirit and support." 
On Tuesday, January 19th, the team wel­comed Hope College into their domain at the Joyce Center. Hope, the fourth ranked Division three team in the country. proved to be a great challenge, but could not discourage the inspired Belles swim­mers. 
On proving their point, the Belles swam away with many per­sonal bests and clear improvements over past meets. 
The first place 200 medley relay team consisting of Alicia Lesneskie, Michelle Sam reta, Danielle Clayton, and Wendy Neumann, finished with a time of 1:59:76. This time was four seconds faster than they had ever gone before, and just missed the school record of 1 :59:30. 
Sophomore Olivia Smith finished second in the 1000 freestyle while dropping six sec­onds off her personal time. 
Continuing the suc­cess, freshman Alicia Lesneskie placed first in the 200 freestyle with a time of 2:05:74, one second faster than 


her previous races. She then went on to win the 100 backstroke. 
Freshman Danielle Clayton took first in the 50 freestyle, whi1e Lori Lennard did her per­sonal best time in the 200 freestyle, and Janel Miller decreased her time in the 100 
fly. 

"We did really well; personal­ly I definitely improved my times. I think its only up from here," Zolman said. 
Despite not having divers, the swimmers' times keep the meet close and the Belles gave highly talented Hope a tight match. 
Without dwelling on their superior performance against Hope, the Belles will prepare and relax for the Conference Championships which will be held February 10-13 at Hope College. 
At this meet the swimmers swim preliminary races in the morning, and then the top 12 
'AsA RFSULT OF THE 
TRAINING TRIP WE 
CAME TOGETHER WITH 
MORE TEAM UNllY. Now 
WE JUMP UP AND CHEER 
FOR EVERYONE. THERE IS A 
LOT MORE SPIRIT AND SUP· 
PORT.' 
MEGAN ZOLMAN 
FRESHMAN SWIMMER 

finishers swim again at night. The Belles will be facing the teams that they have met this season in their conference including: Hope, Kalamazoo, Olivet, Alma, Calvin and Albion. 
"We have our final meet on Saturday and practices are going to be hard until next week when we begin our taper when we rest our bodies. There is a lot of psychological pres­sure that goes along with it too. 90% is mental," Cook said. 
As the championships do approach, the freshmen look to the upperclassmen for helpful hints on how to handle compet­ing in their first finals. 
"I think its not so much that they say what Conference is going to be like, but each prac­tice and meet they are con­cerned with our attitudes and 
the way you feel that 
you 're doing," said Zolman. "They really care for everyone indi­vidually." 
Finally, as the season comes to a close, the swimmers appreciate all the dedication their coach has out into work­ing with them and enhancing their skills. 
"Jini always makes us train hard. Slw's always there for us and makes herself available," said freshman backstroker Cathleen Fitzpatrick. 
Overall, the team is looking forward to their races at the Conference Championships as a chance to solidify their improvement and as an opportunity to thank all those who have support· ed and worked \\'ith them throughout this past season. 
l 
; l r r
1 ,, I '; 
a C a s a cc u 
I 
I 
I 
page 20 The Observer • SPORTS 
\. 


Irish prepare for Rutgers 
By ALAN WASIELEWSKI 
Splirt> \X'rifrr 
This has lw<'ll a tough spa­son to understand if you are a fan of tlw Nott·<• DanH' men's basketball team. 
Big wins haH• bt'<'ll followed by hug<' loss<'S. Winning streaks are transformed into losing streaks. This pattern of up-and-down moments has givm1 the team the confidence to bounce back from some crushing blows. What remains to be seen is if the team can put together a consistent string of efforts to break out of their roller-coaster style. 
The contest at the Joyce Center tomorrow against the Scarlet Knights of Hutgers will provide an opportunity to accomplish that feat. 
The major question on everyone's mind for this \\'eek­end is if leading scorer and five-time Big East rookie of the week Troy Murphy will be healthy enough to play. His severely sprained ankle, injured in practice last week, has healed foster than expect­ed. Notre Dame was able to 

• overcome his absence Tuesday against Seton Hall with a determined team effort but a 
µ'rolonged sideline stay from Murphy might spell doom !'or any post-season dreams of the Irish players. II' Murphy can play against Rutgers, the momentum of his i'<~turn could. spell trouble for the Scarlet Knights. 
Hutgcrs is led by 6-7 senior fo rvv a rd Hob llodgson. Hodgson averages 13 points a game along with 6 rebounds, but his three point shooting is Ru tger's deadliest weapon, Hodgson's 47 percent shooting behind the arc is second in the Big East and 24th overall in the nation. 
He isn't alone in this shoot­ing prowess, either. 6-0 senior guard Geoff Billet averages 46 percent from three point range and Rutgers is first in the Big East shooting 38 per­cent from behind the arc as a team. All of this accurate out­side shooting will test the Irish perimeter defense, already last in the conference against the three point shot. 
It will take a team effort similar to the Seton Hall game for Notre Dame to get its sec­ond consecutive win at home. Antoni Wyche stepped up his offensive production with 16 points and Phil Hickey con-
tr ibu ted 1 5 points and 10 
rebounds, 

Harold Swanagan continued to impress and has become a crowd favorite at the JACC. Swanagan grabbed 11 _rebounds to go with his 10 points and converted a crucial free throw at the end of regu­
lation. 

Senior Dennis Carroll is 
expected to return to the line­
up tomorrow from his separat­
ed shoulder suffered Jan. 10. 
Carroll should provide the 
offense a little extra scoring 
punch off the bench. 

The question remains: will 
the pattern continue'? The big 
Pittsburgh victory at home on 
Jan 5th was followed by a 31 
point loss to Villanova two 
days later. A huge road victory 
at Miami (Fla.) on Jan 9th was 
overshadowed by a 3Q point 
defeat at No, 1 Connecticut on 
the 12th. 

Another blow-out at the 
hands of Villanova on the 16th 
was avenged by a hard-fought 
win Tuesday against Seton 
Hall. Boston College, 
Providence, Seton Hall and 
Georgetown are all wins Notre 
Dame could get in the next 
few weeks if they can break 
out of this pattern. 
Hockey 
continued from page 24 

Aniket know when he's on the ice. Any time they can beat Notre Dame, they love doing it," 
Following a prolonged slump. Notre Damn's penalty killing unit has started to (urn things around. In their last three games, they have not allowed a power play goal against, and have killed 1 7 •of 18 overall entering the weekend. 
In those games. however, they did not" have to deal with the power play scoring threat 
which is Wildcat junior .L P, Vigier.
Vigier anchors the Wildcats top scoring line, along with junior Roger Trudeau and senior Buddy Smith. In 24 games this season, the line has amassed 35 goals and 77 points in all. Vigier is the CCHA's lead­ing goal scorer with 17. while Smith leads the conference in assists with 24. More impor­tantly, Vigier leads all of college hockey with a staggering ten power play goals. 
Certainly, the focus for the Irish will be on the Wildcats' top line. 
"\Ve're going to have to keep an eye on [Vigier], He likes to camp out in front of the net and stay along the back post on the power play," Slaggert said. He then added with a smile, "Ideally, we'd like to have less power plays against so that we don't have to exercise our 

~ 27" Stereo Televistion • Cherry Finished Furnishings •Microwave, Toaster, Coffee Maker 
• All Dishes1 Cookware, Linens & New Bedding • Plus Much More! 
Million Dollar Renovation 
I 
I 
LARGE One Bedrooms (737 sq. ft.), Starting at $457
i 
I I I 
lARGE Two Bedrooms (1025 ~q. ft;.), Starting at $559 
II, 
I 
I 
Included with Rentals Free full privlidge membership to the Castle Point Health and Ra·cquet Club inluding: *New Fitness Center *Outdoor Pool *Beach Volleyball *Sauna & Whirlpool *3 Racquetball Courts *Indoor/Outdoor *Indoor/Outdoor Lighted Tennis Courts 
Hur1y in for a Tour of the Most Popular
II 
.Apartments While.They Last!
I 
! 
Cast[ c 9?oi11t ;,<\partmcnts 

Cleveland & Ironwood Roads 272-8110 www.castle-point.com Monday-Saturday 8am -6pm Sunday 12pm -5pm 

surprisingly Low Monthly Rate-Just Compare! 
Unfurnished or Furnished Spectacular Furnishings available! 
Friday, January 22, l <)99 
newly found skill in penalty killing." 
On Saturday night, the Irish will travel to Sault Ste. Marie to finish up their season series with the Lakers of Lake Superior State. Notre Dame will look for their first season sweep of the Lakers since the l 981-82 season. 
In the first two games between the Lake State and Notre Dame, the deciding factor was special teams. In the two 
'ANY TIME [NORTHERN 
. MICHIGAN] CAN 

BEAT NOTRE DAME, THEY 
LOVE DOING IT.' 

RYAN DOLDER 
!RISH RIGHT WING 
games, both teams had a com­bined thirteen power plays each. The Irish managed five goals with the man advantage in the two games, while the Lakers only managed two, Not surprisingly, Notre Dame won the two games by a combined three goals. 
In preparation for the week­end, the team once again worked relentlessly on penalty killing ·and defense. especially given the players that arc out of the lineup. In the CCHA, teams must always be prepared to play a blue collar game. 
"We focused on down low play, behind their net, behind our net, and three-on-three," Slaggert said. "That's going to be a big part of the series because Northern Michigan and Lake State arc good down low and in the corners. We're going to have to win the batth~s along the wall to be successful." 

.., 





-~~ 
.. :.. ,....­
,-.·.· 
'~ -, 
Friday, January 22, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 21
tr
'
\
,'4·: 
¦ FENCING u 

Opponents en garde for experienced Irish attack 
By MIKE CONNOLLY while NYU took ninth. we will have a way to gauge sixth. women's foilist in Notre Dame Sports Writer The Fighting Irish come off a ourselves against the rest of out Krol and Mustilli will face history. second place finish at last competition and see where we tough individual challenges this The Irish women will face 
The Irish take on the top year's NCAA, losing to Penn are at." weekend when they take on the their toughest competition from fencing teams in the country State by only two matches. The "This is a gauge of how well top two finishers from last sea­Stanford and Columbia this this weekend as they open the Irish have finished third once we can do this year," men's foil son. Charlotte Walker of Penn weekend. 1999 season with two critical and second three times since captain Stephane Auriol said. State won the 1998 foil title Stanford features Felicia meets. their last national title in 1994. "We won't face any tougher while Nicole Dygert of St. Zimmerman, the 1998 national 
On Saturday, the Irish travel Returning eight of 10 NCAA competition all year." John's finished second. champion and a member of the east to State College, qualifiers and seven of eight The lone All-American lost "I am real excited about this 1996 Olympic team and Pennsylvania to take on Penn All-Americans from last year's from last year's team was weekend," Mustilli said. Monique de Bruin, who was the State: the 1998 National squad, expectations are high Men's Epeeist Brian Stone who "Fencing the top competition in second alternate on the 1996 Champions, Stanford, Air Force for this year's team. finished fourth at the 1998 the country is always a lot of Olympic team and finished fifth and Haverford. The Cardinal The Irish hope that by playing NCAAs. fun. This is a chance for us to at last years NCAAs. finished third at last year's top competition so early in the Senior Carl Jackson, who won rise to the challenge of beating What is being dubbed as the NCAA championships while the season, they will better be able All-American honors for the them as well as to just enjoy best sabre team in the country Falcons took 18th.:: to judge this year's chances second time last year. will be the competition." will face its first tough tests of 
The Irish continue their tough and determine where improve­called upon to have another Head coach Yves Auriol. how­the season this weekend. The road trip on Sunday when they ment is needed. strong year. ever, downplays the role that Irish sabres are considered by travel to New York City to take "I feel [playing the top teams The biggest addition to this one fencer will play in a match. many to be the team to beat on Columbia, NYU and St. early] is a good move for us," year's epee team is freshman "One fencer does not make a this year and will face stiff John's. Columbia and St. junior epeeist Magda Krol said. Brian Casas. Casas is currently team," Auriol said. "Penn State competition from Penn State John's finished last year ranked "Normally we don't face these ranked tenth nationally in the is very solid; they are always All-American's Aaron Steuwe fourth and fifth respectively teams until NCAAs. This way under-20 division and finished solid. They have a couple stars and Michael Takagi and 



. 
:;;~. 

ROLFS SPORTS RECREATION CENTER UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Rolfs Sports Recreation Center Drop-In Recreation Schedule 
In-Line Hockey  Sundays  8:30-10:30  
Floor Hockey  Mondays  8:30-10:30  
Indoor Soccer  Tuesdays  8:30-10:30.  
Volleyball  Wednesdays  7:00-10:00  
Lacrosse  Thursdays  8:30-10:30  
Badminton  Fridays  7:00-10:00  

Come by Yourself, or Bring a Friend! 
All times are PM. Schedule is in effect only when classes 
. . 
are m session. 

----------------------------. 

Late Night Olympics XIII Friday, January 29 
)AIVJ 
. --~
OtvMP1cs 
ll 


SBC 
.::::.;./
"'/
~.,,,."' 
""::"~ -·-E 

The thirteenth annual late NightDly 1ed'for"FridA)'/January 29~ 
' . . 

1999tThe-proceeds from this an~znight ·_·. ;g9nza go to benefit the 
. ,•._ '· ....•· .. '.

StJOSi!P.b Courity·spe-ci8fgJympics~ . ~:-JAation;·:contact your hall 
~-;;::~-. 
·..,°•......~ 
Ll
• ,~ >

representative or call RecSports ~t 1-6100. 
.·'-'C ;{'" . M ~. < 
~·\;~ :/::.'?iJ? .§\:,;-"_ ~'<tf.~\ ·. ~ 

eadline for entering ateam is Monday, January 25. 

Friday, January 29, 1999 • 7:00 PM -4:00 AM • Joyce Center &RSRC • 631-6100 All LNO Medals Were Donated by the Notre Dame Alumni Association All T-Shirts Were Donated by <I:~ 
second at the under-19 and they are always strong in Columbia All-American Patrick Summer Nationals. He is the number three and number Durkan. expected to challenge four[fencers]. We won't have "We easily have the strongest Jackson as the number-one one easy match." team in the country," Lavalle starter. The Men's Foil team is the said. "It is just a matter of if we 
The Woman's Epee only Irish team without a 1998 can put out. We have to prove squad is experienced and All-American but that has not that we are the best." talented this year. Senior lowered expectations for this However, the greatest chal­captain Nicole Mustilli and squad. lenged faced by Lavalle this junior Magda Krol were Second year captain Auriol weekend will be from his broth­both All-Americans last won the 1998 Midwest foil er David who is a freshman year. Mustilli placed fourth championships but finished a sabreman at Stanford. at the NCAAs while Krol disappointing 19th at the "This is going to be fun," followed up her 1997 epee NCAAs. Lavalle said. "I have fenced him championship by finishing He must fence well this week-before but never in college. It 
will be a good time. He is going 
..-----------... end as Penn State returns two 
All-Americans in Gang Lu and to be one of the strongest
ERASMUS BOOKS 

David Lidow. fencers we fence against this 
•Used books bought and sold 

Also critical to Irish success year." 
•25 Categories of Books 

this year is junior Charles Facing top level competition 
•25,000 Hardback and Paperback 

Hayes. Hayes has fenced on two consecutive days, one books in stock 
extremely well in his first two would expect fatigue to play a 
•Out-of-Print search service: $2.00 

seasons posting a total of 87 factor. The Irish, however, are 
•Appraisals large and small 

wins but has yet to have any quick to downplay any factor 
Open noon to six 

NCAA experience. that fatigue might play. 
"I think [Charles] can sur­"Fatigue could be a factor prise a lot of people this year," early on Saturday," Stephane
Tuesday through Sunday 
1027 E. Wayne 

Stephane Auriol said. "He Auriol said. "But I think once
South Bend, IN 46617 

hasn't done as well as he we get going and the adrena­
{219) 232-8444 

knows he can and as well as line starts flowing, it won't ~-----------""' my dad and myself know that make that big of a difference. 
he can. So I think this could be 
These are short bouts, just five his year." touches so we should have 
The Woman's Foils are also enough energy to compete." talented and experienced, "We have been training pret­boasting two three time All­ty hard," Walsh said. "And the Americans. Senior Sara Walsh meet last weekend was a good finished third at the 1998 preparation for this meet. I NCAAs and was an alternate on think that if we concentrate we the 1996 US Olympic team. She will be able to pull through the is currently ranked fourth in fatigue." the United States. Myriah These early season matches Brown finished 6th at the 1998 will be critical in determining NCAA championships and is on how far the Irish will go at the pace to become the winningest NCAAs this year. 
Center for Social Concerns 
MEXICO SEMINAR 
-May 11-28, 1999 in Mexico 
(leaving time for summer work) -Service & learning opportunity -One credit Theology -Spanish not required -Applications at the CSC --Applications due: 
January 28, 1999 
-

.. 




j 
I
I , 
I . / l page 22 
l 


Hf' I 
! Fresh faces serving 
1 
l ! I 1 ' \ the path to success
l l 
By NATHANIEL DeNICOLA 
Spons Wrirer 


Notre Dame men's tennis presents a fresh look this year, opening the 1998-99 season with a combination of experi­enced leaders and promising talent. 
Senior co-captains Brian Patterson and Andy \\'arford and Junior All-American Ryan Sachire highlight an impres­sive core of returning players, an especially valuable asset considering the team lost four players from last year to grad­uation. 
Head coach Bob Bayliss isn't worried though. 
"I don't see that as a prob­lem." Bayliss said. "I'm very upbeat about the group we have, the chemistry in this team is better than is has been in a long time." 
In a addition to returning stars. the team also boasts the one of the best freshman class­es in recent memory. 
"The six freshmen have greatly impacted the intensity of the team. The competitive­ness forces everyone to bring their 'A' game to practice everyday," said Bayliss. 
The Irish will receive their first test of the 1999 dual­match season this Saturday as Notre Dame hosts DePaul, Miatni (Ohio) and \Villiam and 
Advance Ticket Sales Available ?'"I
$4 00 •All Shows Before 6 pm :Y ~ 
• •Students •Seniors 
, Sat•Sun-Mon Mattinees [BRAIIETS] : GLORIA {R) : [12:00, 2:40] 5:10,7:45, 10:20 ; VARSITY BLUES {R) 
: c11:45, 2:1515:oo, 1:40, 1o:05 
; AT ARST SIGHT (PG·13)(1:20]4:20, 7:10, 9:50 ( VIIUS (R) [11 :50, 2:10] 4:40, 7:15, 9:40 : THE THIN RED Ll'II (R) : [11:10, 12:10, 3:10] 4:00, 8:50, 8:15 
; r.t DREAMS (R) 
: [12:20, 2:5015:20, 7:50, 10:10 ' ACIVIL ACTION (PG·13) ' [11:00,1:30] 4:15, 7:00, 9:45 , SHAKESPEARE Ill LOVE (R) 
; [11:15, 2:00] 4:50, 7:30, 10:15 
• l'tlGHTY JOE YOUNG (PG) [1:10)3:50,8:45,9:30 : PATCH ADAMI (PIM3) (1:0014:05,8:55, 8:35 '. SRP MOM (PG-13) [1:15) 4:30, 7:20, 10:00 

; TII: FACllTY (R) I , [12:30, 3:00) 5:30, 8:10, 10:25 ' YOU'VE GOT MAI (PG)
ii 
Ii 
' [11:30, 2:20] 5:15, B:00,10:30 ' PllftCE OF EGYPT (PG)

11 
[11:20, 1:45] 4:10, 8:40, 9:10

i 
\ 
· ABUG'S LH (G) [12:5013:45, 8:30 . EftlMY OF TII: STATE (R) 9:00 

Mary in the Adidas Quad Meet. Notre Dame opens versus Miami. against ,vhom they own an 8-2 overall record. 
"I anticipate that we're going · to be a little stronger than Miami," Bayliss said. "Last year their No. 1 beat us, but I think we're a deeper team." 
Barring a victory over Miami, Notre Dame could face \,Villiam and Mary later in the afternoon. 
"That will a tougher match," Bayliss said. "Both No. 1 and No. 2 doubles are nationally ranked and David Kenas has a 
'THE CHEMISTRY IN 
THIS TEAM IS BETTER 
THAN IT HAS BEEN IN A 
LONG TIME.' 
BOB BAYLISS MENS TENNIS COACH 
tremendous return." 
Sachire will lead the singles at No. 1, Patterson at No. 2 and Andy Warford. Matt Daly, Casey Smith and either Matt Horsley, Andrew Laflin or Aaron Talarico will complete the lineup. Horsley is still questionable for singles due to his wrist surgery, though he is expected to compete in dou­bles. 

FREE REFILL 
on All Sizes of Popcorn & Soft Drinks! 
· • . • ,.· . • : · , :$4 00 • All Shows Befo~e 6 pm ':'j b. 
: • • Students • Seniors ' 
:InDreams (R) 
: [2:00] 5:00, 7:30, 9:45 
: Varsity Blues (R) · 
: [2:1~J 4:45, 7:15, 9:35 
• Gloria (R)
L. 2:00 4:30, 1:00, e:3o 
''""''•

SCOTTSDALE 6 •299·6063 
Scottsdale Mall • South Bend 
ONLY $1 00 All Shows Before 6pm
• Everyone • Everyday $1.50 All Evening Shows ;J 6. 
Vampires {R) 
[2:10] 4:50, 7:10, 9:30 I StBI Know What You Did Last Summer (R) [1:50] 4:20,7:00, 9:10 
Something About Mary (R) 
[1:40] 4:15, 6:50, 9:20 
Rush Hour {PG-13) 
[2:20] 4:40, 7:20, 9:40 Jerry Springer's Ringmaster {R) [2:30] 5:00,7:30, 9:45 
Home Fries (PG-13) 
The Observer • SPORTS 
Soccer 
continued from page 24 

Fours in the past five years and his 1995 squad went on to win the National Championship. 
lie recruited and has been instrumental in the develop­ment of some of the finest players in the world. Kato Sobrero, Anne Makinen and Monica Gerardo all have been successful in international play and Cindy Daws won tho Hermann Trophy, an award given to the most outstanding college soccer player. Petrucelli has played an influ­ential role in all four of their careers, as well as many oth­ers who have worn the Irish uniform, 
His teams won eight confer­ence championships, including the last four Big East champi­onships. He held a 175-22-10 record at Notre Dame and a winning percentage of .871, ranking him second all time in Division I. 
Petrucelli's move, however, seems to be in his best inter­ests. 
"There are really three rea­sons why I am here," Petrucelli explained in his opening statement at Texas. "The first is the quality of life 
-· 

that my wife and I found when we came here to Austin. This a major move for me, but it is a lifestyle move above any­thing else. It is a place where we fell in love with immediate­ly and we felt that this would be a great place to spend part of our life. The next part was because of Texas Women's AD Jody !Conradt], to be honest with you. I thought it would be a difficult thing to leave Notrn Dame and it has been, but 1 was very pleasantly surprised by the way she opened her arms and took me and my wife in. 
"The third reason why I am here is the quality of soccer in this state," Petrucelli contin­ued. "I think that Texas has the best,. soccer in the country and traditionally has produced the best players in the coun­try, I think my job here will be to keep those players in the state to make sure that those players are playing here and not going elsewhere." 
Petrucelli, nevertheless, was grateful for his nine years under the Dome. 
"Notre Dame has been a great place for me and my family," he said. "It has enabled me to grow as a coach and accomplish things many people felt weren't possible. I'm sad to be leaving such a great place like Notre Dame. I 
a a • a 
2 0 UC 

Friday, January 22, 1999 
enjoyed working with every­one at Notre Dame. especially the people within the athletic department. Texas presents me with a great opportunity to build another program. I can only hope we have close to the amount of success that Notre Dame has had." 
Notre Dame will now have to move on without his direction. Wadsworth did not seem to feel a sense of urg(rncy in find­ing Pctrucelli's replacement. but rather an emphasis on finding someone who fits the mold. 
"Its not so much a date as it is an opportunity to get a coach that will be the best fit," \\'adsworth said. "Our objec­tive is to keep the program at the highest level nationally. We want someone who has the capability of keeping the pro­gram very competitive and who fits the Notre Dame cul­ture." 
So Petrucelli is gone and the search for his successor is on, but only time will tell how Irish women's soccer deals without him at the helm. 
"This is a great opportunity for Chris and his family, and we wish them well," Wadsworth said. "He leaves our program in a strong posi­tion, and we now go about the business of identifying a replacement." 





Friday, January 22, 1999 The Observer• TODAY page 23 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF ND DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
OUR PROFITS WE.RE G000 UNTIL A 



,AKE ME' 1'o Y1JIIR IlL SAVt Yov iHE LEADER. nlJVBlE, Alll> TAJ<E 
l 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Steve Perry, Linda Blair, John
~yv ro c;oRt: J/tJSTEAb. 
Hurt, Bill Bixby, Sam Cooke, Olivia 
D'Abo, Diane Lane, Graham Kerr, 
FOXTROT 
DILBERT 


C 199!1 &,ff A,,iond/0,$1 bl' Un,,....,•-S.-www foxtrot.com 
confrontation 
13 Taxing job? 
15 Explorer's org. 

24 Gross out 27 Certain bone! informally 28 Swin : ; -1nd1 and OtndrS 
.;
E 
8 

... USED HIS CRE.OlT C 
CARO TO M.P..KE A
@) 0• 
.. 
E 

qoo CA.LL FROI"'\ A.N
.. 
al 

AIR PLANE. PHONE.
8.. 
53 Outsider 54 Autocrat: Var. 55 "Can it'" 
57 Apprentice 59 Takes over 60Ran 61 "--Dragon" (1977 Disney musical) 62Acuity 
DOWN 
1 Ridiculed 2 In poor health 3Land 4 Still 5 Regulus's 
constellation 6 Trimming tape 7 Plagiarize 8 1 ,000 large 
calories 

9C1owning 10 Crown covering 11 Barely make it 
43 Pepsin, for one 49 Quarterback Rodney
44 Pair for pairs 
so Sound asleep? 45 Prepares wheat, 

Of Interest
53 Sighed sounds
in away 56 H.M.O. listing 
48 Louis B. Mayer's 
•
birthplace 58 Flair, e.g. 

1n Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 
...
1 900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). l\nnual subscriptions are available for the uc~l of Sunday crosswords from the last 

The Obsever 
50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS 
Piper Laurie 

Happy Birthday: Don't let your emotional life interfere with your pro­fessional advancement this year. If you really want to get ahead, you're going to have to focus on your work. 
Letting frustrations stand in your way will be detrimental to your advance­ment. You must deal with issues quickly in order to spare yourself long drawn-out setbacks. This is not the year to vacillate. Your nwnbers: 6, 11, 24, 35, 39, 40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You

BILL AMEND 
will be unpredictable today. Try to stick to yourself so as to avoid con­frontations with others. Losses will be

UM, :JUST HoW JASoN, I 
likely if you are too eager to risk your 

MAH'Y oF THESE SA,0 No 
hard-earned cash. Take your time. 
000 TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 

·•~LAXATtoN'' ROCKET 
ARoMAllfERAPY 
Deception is likely. Don't let someone

CANDLES CAN LAUNCHES 
who wants to make you look bad bate
ONE PERSaN NEED? IN 'THE 
you. Stay calm and don't over­
HoUSE 
indulge. Socialize with friends, not co-workers.000
AND I 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20):

MEAN IT.' 
Unusual circumstances will arise if you are taking care of other people's affairs. Read the fine print before 
making decisions. Difficulties will result if you have more than one love interest. 0000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may be taken for granted if you are too willing to give of your own time. 

SCOTT ADAMS 
n/I 
Do not take on problems that don't concern you. Lending money to friends or relatives will result in ill feelings. 00
HE'<, !.'I'-\ ALLOWEO 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Pleasure 
trips will be better than expected. You
TO CALL f"\'( WlfE WHE.N I.'f'v\ TRAVELING! 


Puzzle by Joe OiPietro 
29Annual award · 
30 Part of a wrecking crew? 
31 Brownie 33 Initiate 34 Make-believe 35 Had a visible 
front 41 · Yec11. •\Jilt 
42. t...i,1~:l,; •••: I 
lines 
can meet exciting individuals who spark a major interest. Be sure to experience all that is being offered by those around you. qoooo 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Watch out for untrustworthy individuals. Do not consider joint financial ventures. Approach contracts and agreements with caution. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Roman­tic orportunities will develop at socia functions. Your intuitive intelli­gence and harmonious nature will attract others. You will do well at games that require mental skill. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
Secret affairs will get out of hand, causing personal problems. Put your efforts into bettering your family situ­ation and surroundings rather than jeopardizing your position. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
Property investments will be lucra­tive. You can entertain in your home or make changes to your living quarters. Acceptance will be neces­sary in order to avoid emotional upset. 00000 
CAPRICORN {Dec. 22-Jan. 19}: 
You must take care of all your domes­tic concerns before you decide to go out and entertain yourself. Social events will cost more than you expect. Be careful not to make unreal promis­es. 00 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't confide in others. Your personal secrets are far too revealing. You may find that someone you thought to be your friend is spreading rumors behind your back. 0000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't put off what you can accomplish today. You will have difficulty putting your financial picture into perspec­tive. Be careful while traveling. 000 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 



an 

Does your 
. 

campus activity need to spread . the word??? Submit to 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 One who works on walls 9 Roman holiday 14 Agent's fee, often 15 Scams 16 Iroquoian language 11 Bags 18 Dough 19 Grub 21 Bad news for the king 22 lvy Leaguers 23 Pollster Roper 24 Some takebacks 25 New car owner's worry 
26 Some are Spanish 28 Accelerated 32 It may give you a good start 33 Tanning lotion letters 36 Sea-ear 
37"--outl' 
38 Skipper's syllable, maybe 39 Leyden jar lining 40 Rattled off 42 Cape 46 Points 47 Roadie's responsibility 51 Ancient crosi 52 Converse competitor 

·-.___! 

; 

, I 


L r l 
11
Ii 
f ''1 
I 

a 0 0 & as
-u 


¦ Dennis Rodman 
¦ The Irish women's 
decides to return to the 
tennis tram takes on 
NBA, what tram he will 
DePaul tonight in 
play for is still undecid­
Minnesota. 
ed. 
p.14 
p.20 
O 
THE 

Friday, January 22, 1999 BSERVER page 24 
~-HOCKEY 

Irish look to solidify CHAA standing in Michigan 

The Observer/ Joe Stark The Irish Hockey program looks to solidify a third-place standing in the CHAA as they take on Northern Michigan this weekend. 
¦ 

Petrucelli leaves ND for Texas 
provide us the benefit of their input from those who they know in the game also. 
"Mike Berticellli, our mens head coach, also is a person who has been active and sutcessful for so long in soc­cer that he has been able to 
.give our committee some direction," Wadsworth con­tinuedl. "Then we also have been able to plug into other sources as well and what happens is that as you do this, you find some of the same names coming up every time for obvious rea­sons." 
Finding a worthy replace­m ent, however, may be a difficult task. Few women's soccer coaches have reached the coaching "eliteness" that Petrucelli has been able to attain. 
"He took a fledgling pro­gr am and built it into a national power," Wadsworth said. "We are grateful to him for the contributions he has made during his nine years at Notre Dame." 
Petrucelli has taken the Irish to four NCAA Final 
see SOCCER I page 22 
By TED BASSANI 
Spores Writer 

The Notre Dame hockey team will look to solidify its third place standing in the CCHA this weekend when they travel north to take on the Wildcats of Northcn1 Michigan and the Lakers of Lake Superior State. 
This weekend's series repre­sents the last long road trip the team will have to make this season, as they play in Marquette, Michigan on Friday and in Sault Ste. Marie on Saturday. In addition to miss­ing key defensemen Ryan Clark and Tyson Fraser, the team received more bad news on the injury front this past week. Team captain Brian Urick suf­fered an injury in the game last Saturday against Alaska­Fairbanks, an injury that could keep him out anywhere from three to five weeks. In any case. Urick will certainly miss this weekend's contests as well as next weekend's highly antici­pated matchup with Michigan. 
Assistant coach Andy Slaggert addressed the issue of his team playing without their captain. 
"I don't think there will be a void of leadership," Slaggert said. "We'll certainly miss his intensity. his speed and his goal scoring. We'll look to our alter­nate captains Aniket IDhadphalel. Benoit LCotnoir]. and to Forrest [KarrJ in net Lfor leadership1." 
In Urick's absence, Slaggert also noted that the team's top scoring line will probably con­s is t of Ben Simon at center. with sophomore Chad Chipchase and junior Joe Dusbabek on the wings. 
Friday night's matchup against Northern Michigan pits two hot teams against one another. The Wildcats come into the contest having won their last four games overall, including three straight confer­ence wins. Their current four game streak is the longest since they opened their season with six straight wins. 
Thus far, Northern Michigan season has been one of streaks. After starting the season win­ning nine of eleven, the Wildcats went through a tough stretch during which they lost seven out of nine. games. Strangely, their four biggest wins of the season have all come on the road. They swept a two-game series early in the season at nationally ranked Clarkson. In conference, they defeated Ferris State in Big: Hapids in addition to trouncing : the Wolverines in Ann Arbor 6-; 1. 
The vVildcats are by no'. means a surprise team follmv-, ing last year's fourth place fin-: ish and CCHA Tournament· semifinal appearance. During· Notre Dame's late run to the: playoffs last year, they man-· aged to beat Northern three . straight times in a stretch of four games to sweep the season series. In fact, the two wins at the Joyce Center last year got a bit chippy, just to add to the growing rivalry between the teams. 
Currently, Northern sits just three points behind the third place Irish in sixth place in the tightly packed CCHA standings. Add all this the fact that Notre Dame senior Aniket Dhadphale is a native of Marquette, and you have the forrnula for a heated season series in 1999. 
"I know they remember [last year] because Aniket knows a lot of those guys and he talks to them throughout the year," said sophomore wing Hyan Dolder. "They'll remember it now and they'll probably let 
see HOCKEY/ page20 
Ladies to take on St. John's 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Assistant Sports Editor 

The ninth-ranked Notre Dame women's basketball team returns home tomorrow night to face St. John's with an emphasis on playing solid defense. 
"We're looking to be more consistent on defense especial­ly," guard Niele Ivey said. "We haven't been the best we can be . The offense is alwavs there. but we have to get the ·job done on 
OD'" 

The Irish (14-2) are coming off a blowout win over Seton Hall on Wednesday. 
"I think that game was a step in the right direction," Ivey said. "\Ve had a bad defensive game against Providence. but were able to hold Seton Hall under 50 points." Ruth Riley controlled the inside and had 16 points against the Pirates despite p[lay­ing just eight minutes in the sec­ond half. The 6-foot-5 center also had seven blocks and six boards to propel the Irish to a 8 7 -47 road victory. Danielle Green had 15 points and Sheila McMillen added 13. 
Notre Dame is now off to its 
best start in school history and 
will look to continue its '"'inning 
ways tomorrow night. The Irish 
have never lost to the Red Storm 
see WOMEN I page 18 

By BRIAN KESSLER 
Assistant Sports Editor 
The recent departure of women's head soccer coach Chris Petrucelli, who accept­ed the head coaching posi­tion at the University of Texas, has many Irish soc­cer fans wondering where the program will go from here. 
No names have .been released, but the athletic department has apparently gotten a jump on finding a rep! ace men t for the two­time National Coach of the Year. 
"We have a committee that is compiling a list of candi­dates and from that list we are working down to a man­ageable number that we will pursue in terms of inter­views," athletic -director Mtke Wadsworth said. "We have a strong relationship with Chris Petrucelli at Notre Dame and he has been able to pass on some thoughts to us. as well as his assistant coaches, who are not interested in the position and are not candidates. As a result, they are very free to 
Basketball

M·· vs Rutgers at Northern Michigan 
vs Hope College 

'~ Saturday, noon Today, 7 p.m.
SPORTS 

~ 
Saturday, 3 p.m. 
ATA 

Men's Swimming Women's Swimming vs St. John's at Western Ontario at Michigan Saturday, 7 p.m. 
Saturday Jan. 30 
'O •
GLANCE 






