Say Ahhh 
Irish fall to Volunteers 
Tennesse proved too strong for Notre Dame. 

Monday
Take a look. behind the scene of 
University I-lea/th Services. 

pulling offa 38-14 victory in Saturday's game. 
Scene . page 14 

Irish Insider . pullout 
NOVEMBER 8, 
1999 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXIII N0.47 HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

CAPACITY CROWD 

SMC hosts Fall Day festivities 
By KATIE MILLER 
News Writer 
While touring Saint Mary's on Sunday, visiting students sampled academics, commu­nity and student life while participating in the annual Fall Day on Campus. 
Admissions department representatives were pleased with the large turnout of prospectives. "We had close to 300 prospective students here today; this is the largest program we've ever hosted," said admissions director Mary Pat Nolan. 
Nolan hopes the large turnout will bring in a larger applicant pool. 
"We are always looking to increase our pool of appli­cants. Last year, 1,041 women applied. This year, we hope to match those numbers or increase them," said Nolan. 
Fall Day on Campus began with continental breakfast followed by a formal wel­come by College president Marilou Eldred along with a prayer service. The prospec­tive students and their fami­
see FALL DAY/page 4 
WVFI vies for FM status, respect 
covered three weeks ago, with that on an FM station."
By MATTHEW SMITH University administrators lim­John Forgash, station man­
News Wrircr 
ited access to WVFI to Notre ager of WVFI believes the Dame students with current period of global broadcasting
Years ago, WVFI was an AM AFS IDs. muting the station to allowed the station to show off 
station with a loyal listeners, 
Domers and fans without cur­its work ethic. Employeesbut after lite introduction of 
rent campus connections. learned a lot about what it powerful electronic devices in Now, station managers' only takes to bring in an audience. 
dorms -computers and TV's, recourse to a "I think the 
stereos and rnfrigm·ators -its 
larger listen­best part of it signals weakened with outdat­ing audience "!n my mind. they should was it was 
ml Pquipmmit. The University­
is to wait for unexpected,
f'un dcd station struggled to WVFI to have a year to prove and it made 
rngain listeners. come up on what they can do." the DJ's real­/\!'tor a f'ew wn,)kS with a 
a list of' ly focus on 
world-widn audience, student­
organiza­what they
Adele Lanan
run WVFI will have to he satis­t i o n s were doing,"
fied with 011-curnpus broad­media advisor
requesting he said. "We 
casting until it gets the oppor­
FM dial h a v e 
tunity to bncome an FM sta­S p a C C received a lot 
lion. 
According to of emails,In September, "Tim Voice of 
Adele Lanan, the station's mostly f'rom parents and 
the Fighting Irish" moved from Student Activities' media advi­alumni, asking why we its traditional honrn al (140 AM 
sor. students should use the couldn't broadcast globally
and to an Internet broadcast. 
down time to hone their skills. anymon1. The UniversityAlthough its agreement with "In my mind, they should doesn't know the impact we 
the Univcirsity only allowed have a year to prove what they made and how serious we hroadcasting to peopln within cun do," she said. "There is a woul<l take it [if given the tho Notre Dame syst11m, due to difference betwcon profession­chance to broadcast globally a loophole, prog-rammini.; was 
a I and unprofessional, and againl."availablu in cybnrspace world­
they have got to show up for However, the University'swide. 
shifts so them aren't hours of 
Wlwn tlrn mistake was dis-see WVFJ/page 4 
doad air. You can't get away 

Lecturer: MTV, rap distract black youths 
Achievement Gap." It brought
By ERIN LaRUFFA 

social scientists from around 
News Writer 

the country together to discuss the discrepancy in achieve­In 1988, MTV first aired a 
ment between minorities and show featuring hip-hop music. 
their white and Asian counter­Around the same time, the 
parts.increase in the test scores of 
FergusonAfrican-
said that American stu­
'i4 lot of the black kids black youth
dents that 
began imi­

are trying to figure out
began in 1980 

tating what started to drop what it means to be they saw in off. 
rap artists,

black."
"Hip-hop hit 
who in turn 

really big in imitated 1988," said Robert Ferguson 
trends theyHobert Harvard economist saw amongFerguson, an 
youth.economist at 
"It's not Harvard's Kennedy School of 
proof of anything," FergusonGovernment. Ferguson spoke 
said of the correlation bntwe,m about trends in academic test 
the explosion of hip-hop and scores as they relate to youth 
the leveling of gains made byculture during a conference black students. However, he Saturday at McKenna Hall. 
said that researchers arc The conf'ereuce, sponsored 
searching for more evidence. by Notre Dame's Institute for "There's some evidence ... Educational Initiative, was entitled "The Black-While see LECTURE/page 4 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Monday, November 8, 1999 
INSIDE COLUMN 




WeareND 
Burps. Gunshot wounds. Horror films. These things don't disgust me. 
What disgusts me is greed -greed and ego­tism. How ironic that these two vices I disgust most exist in a University I thought I loved entirely. 
I have recently just been 
Christine Kraly
afforded the opportunity to llve, work and study in our nation's capital, arguably Associate the best place in the world News Editor for journalism students. The program, through another university, has been established for years and has a great reputation for placing students in rewarding internships during their stay in Washington. 
The problem is that Notre Dame established its own D.C. program a few years ago and doesn't like to be passed over for another. I was wait-listed by Notre Dame's program and fought through the following months to get a realistic idea of my chances. Realism hit when numerous unanswered summer e-mails led me to near apathy. 
But I didn't give up. 
One sunny summer day my mailman returned hope to my life with a letter from another uni­versity offering a semester in Washington, D.C. 
Somewhere in between receiving the universi­ty's application and working, the summer ended with the application untouched. When I returned to school, however, I decided this is what I really wanted to do. I knew my parents would be upset if I pursued it and that it might be a difficult process to complete. But some­thing inside me told to push on. ~Never live in regret," I told myself. "Don't roll over and die simply because Notre Dame said 'no."' 
You can imagine how happy I was to get my acceptance letter. It was, literally, that getting­into-college feeling again. My friends couldn't have been more excited. They showered me with pride and it was hard not to get wrapped up into it all and ahead of myself, not consider­ing the fact that I might not be able to go. 
But I did -I believed my University would be behind me. It had honestly never occurred to me that, for one reason or another, Notre Dame would deny me the opportunity to educate myself. 
Without elaborating, there exist two problems in my D.C. fulfillment: money and opportunity. And I seem to be getting nowhere in either department. I was told only a certain number of students can apply by a certain date to study through another school's program. Late-comers like myself, therefore, are left in the cold. 
I've exhausted nearly every outlet and sought after nearly every loophole. My optimism is hanging by a very thin thread, a thread continu­ally thinned by the University' s reluctance. 
It's a horrible thing to hit walls of opposition. It's as if I've been trapped in some twisted cir­cuitous dance where I take one step forward, then two back. 
Isn't it in Notre Dame's best interest to keep one of its students happy? Isn't it in the best interest of this University to allow me to expand my mind for a semester, earn incredible resume-building experience and come back senior year to share this information with my peers? Isn't it in this school's best interest to promote more program-sharing and not assume its program is the only one from which I could benefit? 
What kind of institution limits the number of mind-expanding experiences? What kind of institution hinders a student's chance to 
become a more well-rounded individual? 
I guess I have my answer. 
Weare ND. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Finn Pressly Amanda Greco Laura Rompf Graphics Erin LaRuffa 
Scott Hardy 
Sports 
Production 
Bill Hart Mark DeBoy

Viewpoint 
lab Tech Mia Nussabaum 
Nellie Williams 
The, Obsem:r (USPS 599 2-4000) is published MonJ,y rhrough Friday except during exam and vacation puiods. The Observer i, a member of rhc Associated Press. All reproduction righu arc rc.sem,d. 


THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Monday  Tuesday  
. Lecture: "Culture and  . Lecture:  Stories of for- 
Euopean Integration," 129  mer sweatshop work,  
DeBartolo, 4:30 p.m.  Le Mans Hall, Saint  
. Poetry reading: Charles  Mary's, 7 p,m.  
Bernstein, 138 DeBartolo,  . Performance: Michael  
8p.m.  Lacapa, Native American  
. Concert: Janet Packer,  flute player, LaFortune  
violinist, Hesburgh, 8 p.m.  Ballroom, 7:30 p.m.  

Wednesday 

. 
Performance: Tom Deluca, hypnotist, Stepan Center, 7 p.m. 

. 
Lecture: "The Garden as Myth: Villa Lante at Bagnaia," 104 Bond Hall, 


4:30 p.m. 
Thursday 
. 
Performance: "A Night of Irish Entertainment," Irish story tellers and muscians, Reckers, 7 p.m. -9 p.m. 

. 
Theater presentation: "A Piece of my heart." Moreau Center, Saint Mary's, 8p.m. 


Compiled from U. Wire reports


OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Penn State minority students sent racist e-mails 
UNIVERSITY PARK. Pa. 

Penn State officials have traced racist e-mails some students received this week to a specific computer in the Philadelphia area, but have little information about who might have sent them. 
At least 68 black and Hispanic stu­dents received one of two versions of the anonymous message, said Thomas Sowerby, investigator for Ponn State Police Services. One version includes racial slurs, implied threats and the salutation, "I will be on patrol. Long live Amerikkka." 
That message came from an e-mail accuunt labeled "the patriot," the same name a person used to send a racist message to The Daily Collegian columnist Laura Hennessey in March. 
The FBI has joined Penn State police and the Penn State Network 
"Ifyou 're feeling uncomfortable in classes, it causes you to think about things other than your education." 
Shannon Ingram junior 
Security Office in investigating the source of the messages. Students who got the e-mail are also trying lo uncover more about it, including why the racist targeted those he did. One student is trying to organize a meeting of those who received the message. 
Junior Kenji Darby, a student who received the racist message, said wor­rying about the threatening message has disrupted his concentration in class. 
"Why would he send it to Penn State? It doesn't make any sense," Darby said. 
For some black students, the mes­sage is another example of the racism they say pervades the University Park campus. Junior Shannon Ingram, who heard about the message from a friend, said she received a similar e­mail as a freshman. She is consider­ing withdrawing from Penn State because of several racial incidents. 
For example, on a recent weekend, Ingram said a group of men said "the coons are out tonight" and other slurs near her while she was walking downtown with friends. 
"It's a combination of everything," Ingram said. "If you're feeling uncomfortable in classes, it causes you to think about things other than your education." 

Lehigh students protest alcohol ban 
BETHLEHEM, Pa. 
About 150 Lehigh University students protested the school's program to curb binge drinking, saying the poli­cy hurts campus spirit and has prompted some students to abuse drugs. The half-hour protest Saturday ended with students signing a petition that demanded changes in Project IMPACT, which stands for Involving Multiple Partners in Achieving a Cultural Transformation. "This is killing our school," 19-year-old junior Walker Conolly said. "We must come together and fight this. If everyone on the Hill signs this petition, they have to listen." The rally started as a disorganized congregation of students milling around the lawn, a few wearing shirts that said, "I do drugs at Lehigh cause I can't drink." John Smeaton, vice provost of student affairs, said he would be willing to consider changing Project IMPACT, but that Lehigh remains committed to curbing binge drinking. "If someone has a better idea that we haven't thought of, we'll listen," he said. University officials say Project IMPACT's intent is not to ban drinking, but to promote responsible drinking as well as alternatives for students who prefer not to drink. 


LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather'" forecast for daylime conditions and high temperatures 
?'' ::»· ,,:,,; ,, ,..,,. ,..,,. ;.. ,
'.'"'.•

•,·~, ''" ....,........,., .. '.. '''"..·.. ·.······.·•·. 
....... -· ... y··' ·_. :-:._,.-,_•.-.· ...-.::": _· i:._,_, 
-
lliii 
~~AM. ~ ~ ~ (I-~ ~ 
... ,, .. ,~...~ ......... ~,:,:.,.: --­
Showers T.$1orms Rain FTurrles SMw /cit Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy VlaAsaoaated Pu... GntplliaNof 
UCLA hall evacuated after bomb threat 
LOS ANGELES 
Occupants of Murphy Hall were forced to evacuate the building when officers from the Los Angeles Police Department's bomb squad and the university police responded to a bomb threat Thursday morning. The situation began when someone in the graduate admissions office reported a suspicious package to UCPD at 8:30 a.m. UCPD then notified the LAPD bomb squad. After arriving on scene at 10 a.m., it took the bomb squad about 20 minutes using traditional meth­ods to determine the package was harmless. "It was just a letter or some sort of application to the campus that had a lot of writing on it." said Jim Joy, a detective with the bomb squad. "It wasn't made to look like a bomb, but because of the suspiciousness of the package, we had to come out. It's probably from someone who is mentally unbalanced," he added. Chancellor Albert Carnesale said that they were taking the situation seriously. "The odds are that this is noth­ing, but you don't want to take chances with people's lives and safety," said Carnesale before the bomb squad entered the building. 


NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeather0 forecast for noon.Monday, Nov. 8. 
c 1eaai AccuW..1h11r, Inc. COLD WARM BTATtONARY 
Pnuura: 
® © . ~ [ill ~. ~ Em' 0 ~ ~ 
Hillh LOW Qhow•r• Rafr, r~1tom11-FlurriN Snow ... SunnJ pt, Cloudy Cloudy Vitt ~•t«tPmu 
Atlanta  74  50  Las Vegas  72  52  Portland  55  44  
Baltimore  55  37  Memphis  78  54  Sacramento  61  42  
BoilOO  46  32  Milwaukee  50  43  St. Louis  79  59  
Chicago  72  52  New York  50  42  Tampa  84  57  
Houston  80  58  Philadelphia  52  32  Wash DC  56  42  

Monday, November 8, 1999 The Observer . NEWS page 3 
Panel discusses new federal possibilities 
• Judges, governor discuss issues of states rights 
Br KATE STEER 
N<-w• Writer 
l'arwlists gatlwrnd Friday to dis<"uss stal1>s' rights and fod­!'l"alistn in lhe 21st century. 
l'nis(Hll were llw gov(•rrwr of Montana Marc Bacicot. .Judgn Hobert Miller ol' tlrn Norllwrn District of lnclia1111 and Michad CrPvo, t)xnrutivn dirnctor of' llrn Cnntt>r for Individual Hights. 
Hacicot's remarks contnrcd around oplimism for Lim f'uturn of <'ollaboration lwtwoon forl­N,tl and !-itate governments. 
"The Constitution givns Urn f'.-ckrnl government pownr that is limilt•d. but oV<ff µast y11ars, t.hal pownr has grown," hn said. adding that in thP last dncade, the statP and suprnmn courts havt\ taknn stop!-i to rcinvigoraln slaln powor, 
Th11 govPrnor's opinions about the most dnsirable direc­tion in which to move were apparent: "Any doubt about wh1irn power resides should bn constrund in favor of tlrn slatns." 
Hadcol pointed lo the gun­emf foc!ing that to get any­thing dmrn, tlw highnsl ltmil ­tlw foderal levlll in this case ­must be rnachnd. 
"Citiznns look to national 
){ovcrnment to lead the way. hut we're always best with the most government that serves pnoµle at the lowest level pos­sibli\," he said. 
Judge Miller took a legisla­tive point of vinw. He noted that thr cas1• load of the feder­al court syslnm has increased.· rocent.ly us a result of the push ol' law into llw l'r.deral rPalm. 
"I am somowhat more pes­simi!-itic than Governor Racicot," said Miller. "Busiirnssns have learnnd that it is more eflhctiv11 to lobby al the federal level rather than at 50 stat<i levols." 
lie said that this attitude makes it harder to change the trend. 
"W11 are heading toward a situation where cases brought undor state law will be decided !Jy federal !aw," Miller said. 
Greve offered a stancn oppo­site to Hacicot's. "I don't like the phrase 'states' right:,;,"' he said. 
I le dclinod federalism as the notion of divided sovereignty over the same jurisdiction: in other words. to oblige govern­ment to control itself. 
"The supreme court is slowly working up to the fact that it is the only institution that can preserve foderalism," Greve said. 
The symposium was co-spon­sored by the Federalist Society, 
Notre  Dame  Student  
Government  and  the  Law  
School.  

UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN 
Lawsuit may alter fee allocation 
A,sodared Press 

MADISON 
A lawsuit by a student who objected to the use of his stu­dent foes to support liberal campus groups at the. University of Wiscons·in could changP the way fees are spent on collngu campuses nation­wide. 
Tho U.S. Supreme Court, which is to hear the case Tuesday. will decide whether public universities can use rrmndatory student activity fees to subsidize campus groups that pursue political goals. 
"The decision will affect, lit­erally, every college and uni­versity in this country," said Brady Williamson, who teach­es cimstitulioual law at the University of Wisconsin­Madison. · 
The suit was liled in 19% by then-law student Scott Southworth. A federal trial judge and the 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled in his favor that the subsidies unlaw­fully force some students to subsidize views they find objec­tionable. 
Ir the high court upholds those rulings, it could bar schools from using student fees to pay for politically active groups, or it could issue a less sweeping remedy allowing stu­dents to opt out of giving money to groups they find objer.tionable. 
University spokeswoman 
Sharyn Wisniewski said the school appealed the rulings because the fees help pay for a system that gives students a forum to discuss and deal with issues that might not exist without fee-supported groups. 
The fee in question is $15 per semester for each of the 38,000 students. The rnmrny is distrib­uted through student commit­teAs elected by the student body. 
Southworth and several other law students with conservative political views had challenged the funneling of the fee 
proceeds to 'The decision will a.fJect, agrnn," Kelly 
18 organiza­literally, every college said. tions on the But not all
and university in this

Madison conservatives campus. country." agree. Larisa A m o n g Vanov of the groups they Academic
Brady Williamson 

objected to Alliance for

constiutional law professor

w c r e International Socialist Organization: Camµus Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual Center; and an AIDS support network. 
"We didn't believe that any student should have to pay fees that went to groups that they objected to on a personal, ideo­logical or religious basis," said Southworth, now a lawyer and an aide to a state senator. 
"It's inconsequential whether they're liberal or conservative," he said. "We'd support liberal students who object to their fees going to conservative groups." 
"This affects everybody on campus," said Adam Klaus, chairman of the Associated Students of Madison, the group that distributes the foes to cam­pus groups. 
Conservative students have long be.en frustrated with the fees, said Daniel Kelly, an i,Lttorncy for Southworth and Urn other plaintills. 
"The funding has gmrnrally gone to liberal organizations. and they have been frustrated with their money going to ideas with which they dis• 
Freedom, a 
conservative 
group that encourages debate on campus­es, said ther_e is no problem with using student fens if they benefit groups open to all stu­dents. 
"Student fees are a pool, and if students want to start a Star Trek society or a conservative one or a liberal one, they should be able to," said Vanov, whose group receives student fees on campuses where it works. "There should be fees that students can use anyway they want to use them." 



ATTENTION STUDENTS: 
WHY SELL YOUR USED TEXTBOOKS BACK TO THE BOOKSTORE FOR LESS WHEN YOU CAN SELL THEM DIRECTLY TO ANOTHER STUDENT? CAMPUSMONSTER.COM ALLOWS STUDENTS TO SELL THEIR USED TEXTBOOKS TO OTHER STUDENTS. YOU WILL MAKE MORE MONEY AND YOUR FELLOW STUDENTS WILL SAVE MORE! IT'S THAT SIMPLE. 
LOG ON NOW AND LIST YOUR FALL SEMESTER TEXTBOOKS AND GET ENTERED FOR THE CHANCE TO WIN YOUR NEXT SEMESTERS BOOKS FOR FREE!!!! THAT'S RIGHT. WE WILL HOLD A DRAWING ON DECEM­BER 30, 1999 TO FIND THE WINNER OF OUR" SEMESTER FOR FREE" CONTEST. YOU WILL RECEIVE 1 ENTRY FOR EVERY BOOK YOU LIST. THE MORE BOOKS YOU LIST THE BETTER YOUR CHANCES OF WIN­NING. 
WHEN YOU'RE THERE, GET THE LATEST SCOOP ON WHAT'S HAPPEN­ING AT YOUR COLLEGE OR AT CAMPUSES AROUND THE COUNTRY. 
THERE'S ALSO A SECTION WITH UP TO DATE SCORES AND COLLEGE NEWS. 
FROM TEXTBOOK SWAPPING, COLLEGE APPAREL AND GAME TICKETS 
TO THE LATEST CAMPUS NEWS, IT'S ALL JUST A CLICK AWAY AT CAM­
PUSMONSTER.COM 
.Thank you t_o all those Observer staff members who helped out at the Broadway Christian Parish United Methodist Church . Colleen Gaughen Kathleen O'Brien Noreen Gillespie Laura Petelle Nicole Haddad Erin Piroutek Michelle Krupa Shannon Ryan Erin LaRuffa Kate Steer Tim Logan Bill Uniowski MollyMcVoy Nellie Williams Maribal Morey  
University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents J\h£tta;'.MUSIQVE CONCERT XIII: 11 IN CONVERSIONE SANCTI PAUL( $,tbola.~~.--i2"_~ .. ...·,;:;=::'}:! ~ t~· 1._ '11\nin6autt t'lnn1uw lib..~ fflusicorum , ... J... • • ; .... 41 ....__~ 9:30 p.m. ~­~«-dl'lhmufttIlll~IUll~~­Tues., Nov. 9, :. 4 4t'C • ~ ' • H r,.: Basilica of the Sacred 11C!U(U \'t$ -fmi,nnuffl'Qt'~ Heart ~~~~,111<~.,-l!'<l:'l<.~~~C_,,..,~,'-<'"f-~~~t;~_:_,_iO Free and open to the public. www.nd.edu/ -music for more info  







PUSfflODSTDR.GOffl 
"If we don't have it, you can't get it!" 

Check out The 
Monday, November 8, 1999

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 

Fall Day 
continued from page 1 
lies then attended a presenta­tion that focused on admis­sion and financial aid. 
"Everything was -extrP.mely well organized, especially the financial steps," said Mary Ann Shanahan. mother of prospective student Molly Shanahan. "The presenta­tions were spaced apart so that we were able to absorb everything and still not become overwhelmed. I am leaving much more relaxed than when I arrived." 
Next. parents and prospec­tive students divided into two groups. High school students met with a separate panel from their parents, 


"This is such a beautiful "\i\'e are
w h i C h allowed them campus. I can picture so lucky to to ask ques­be hosting
myself being here next
tions in a this pro-more casual year. gram on atmosphere. 
such a Parents met beautiful
Catherine Kraus 
primarily dav; it is one

prospective student 
or' tho best
with a group of Saint Mary's stu­dents and their parents. 
After the panel discussions. high school students toured the entire campus and dined at the Noble Family Dining Hall. 
'Tm having so much fun," said prospective student Mary Ann Gerlach. 
"My daughter graduated· in '96, and every time I come here, Saint Mary's looks bet­ter and better. There have been a lot of improvements," said Gerlach 's mother. Gabriela Gerlach. 
"From a parental stand­point, everything that we needed to know was present­ed, and presented beautifully at that. The presenters, tour guides and other student vol­unteers were excellent. Everyone has been so wel­coming and informative," said Kathy Clugston, mother of Danielle Clugston. 
Many of the visiting stu­dents found the tours of the residence halls to be insight­ful into student life. 
"I really like the dorms; this is such a charming campus," said Jennifer Hazaert, a high school junior. 
'Tm very impressed with the· friendliness and warmth we were treated with by pass­ing students in the dorms and around campus. I felt very welcome," said Gail Tabet, mother of Laurice Tabet. 
"Saint Mary's truly has a special feeling to it. It's not like other schools; you are not a number. This has been a wonderful day," said Mary Ann Shanahan. 
''This is such a beautiful campus. I can picture myself being here next year, " said high school senior Catherine Kraus. 
"Saint Mary's has such a clean character, the girls are friendly; it's just the atmos­phere I want my daughter to be in," said Susan Kraus. 
The warm weather Sunday 
pleased 
Nolan. 
days of the 
year," said Nolan. "In addition to our large turnout, we are running ahead of where we were last year at this time." 

In addition to Fall Day on Campus, the Saint Mary's Leaders of a New Indiana (LONI) project have developed a program called "My First Day on Campus." This pro­gram allows high school stu­dents to spend a night in a residence hall, attend classes and have lunch with faculty and administrators as well as participate in social activities. 
Through that program, high school students are provided with information about the admissions process and financial aid. They also meet with a· student panel for a casual question and answer session. 
That 24-hour college pre­view was held Oct. 28 and 29, and Nov. 7 and 8. 
"I really like looking around campus. Saint Mary's has so much to offer," said high school senior Michella Mendoza. "I hope to be back on campus soon, shadowing a Saint Mary's student. I'm very excited." 
.JDM Communications 

WVFI 
continued from page 1 
discovery caused a plan to be immediately implemented whfch only allows listeners with Notre Dame AFS pass­words to listen to the station. This has some. WVFI employ­ees in a uproar, including Patrick Furey, also known as "DJ Joker" on the airwaves. 
"We don't have money for equipment; all we have is University censorship," said Furey. "They don't want any­one to hear us." 
Furey maintains the station wants its global audience back and an FM station in the next few years. However, he sees the obstacle that lies ahead: "All we can do is beg. They have total control. It took them about two seconds to !?lock our Internet broadcast [globally] last month," he said. 
Lanan, who strongly influ­ence on the future course of WVFI, is not ready to deem the station worthy of storming the world's airwaves. 
"They should have news 
when they say they will have news, and they should have community events, like a real radio station would have," she said. 
Despite her worries, Lanan seems to welcome the thought of a WVFI FM station. "There is no room left on the dial, but WVFI is on a waiting list. If a 'low power station' [a station with a 3-mile signal] opens up, the University has agreed to do that," she said. 
Forgash has never heard mention of a waiting list for FM or of any administration support for such an FM sta­tion for WVFI. He feels that station employees should "take that with a grain of salt," and see the possibility of FM as only "a long-term goal." ­
"The University is assuming that we will make a mistake, so they are preventing us from having a chance, to avoid us making some mis­take," he said. 
"We have freedom of pro­gramming now, but a limited audience," said Forgash. "The University is very con­cerned about its image and 
about being very conserva­tive." 
Despite her hope that the station will thrive, Lanan makes it clear that "the most important thing [WVFIJ has to show us is that they can main­tain their professionalism." 
A proposal by the staff of WVFI is being put together to present to Student Affairs, urging them to allow the sta­tion to broadcast globally once again. 
"A lot of DJs are involved, and we are gathering letters of confidence from our listen­ers as evidence," he said. 
The station is also arguing that if such student media outlets as The Observer and the Scholastic have worldwide Internet capabilities, WVFI should too. 
"We weren't expecting to be able to go global at first, but when we did, new audiences were opened to us that would benefit from our broadcasts," Forgash said. 
WVFI will broadcast varsity and Bookstore Basketball games in addition to their football game broadcasts this season. 

Featuring: 
..



NEXT-­
. --­==-= 
!! !!!:=!!!!:::: 

• 100% National Digital Wireless Network 
• Direct Connect * 
• No Roaming 

• Ask About Ou.r No Long Distance* 
• No Contracts 
Call Today and Ask About Our: 250 Anytime Cellular Minutes w/ I00<fFrec Weekend Minutes• 
For $40°0 per month 219-237-1082 802 East LaS~lleAve., South Bend, IN46617 
(Just South ol St. Joseph's Medical Center) 
10% Off of Equipment and/or Ac<;essories w/This Ad 
(Valid thru 11-30-99) 
www.jdrncommunications.com 
"Bringing You Tomorrow's Wireless Technology Today" 
Lecture 
continued from page 1 
that youth culture may be a part of [the decline in acade­mic gains]," he said. 
The percentage of black stu­dents who read for enjoyment in their free time declined between 1988 and 1992, while the percentage among whites has remained relative­ly constant, Ferguson added. 
Nationally, black youth watch twice as much televi­sion daily than do whites, he explained. 
f<'erguson said that in addi­tion to schoolwork, blacks alsu have to do "social home­work" by watching sitcoms and music videos to fit in dur­ing lunch-time discussions with their peers. 
"A lot of the black kids are. trying to figure out what it means to be black," said Ferguson. He also said that some black students become "honorary whites," and are thus accepted by their white peers. 
Another problem facing black students is their self­perception. 
"Black kids are more self­conscious Ithan whites)." said Ferguson, who currently is working on a study which ini­tially suggests that blacks tend to question their intelli­gence more than whites do. 
Many black students spend more time wondering if they can do their math homework than actually working on the problems, Ferguson said. 
Ferguson also discussed the topic of teacher expectations. 'Teachers appeared to mat­
ter more to black kids than white kids," Ferguson said, referring to one study of sixth grade students in Michigan. 
Other studies suggest that black students try to please their teachers more than they try to please their parents. White students tended to do the opposite. 
Ferguson also acknowl­edged the socioeconomic dif­ference between many blacks and whites. White parents are more likely to have college degrees than black parents, he said. 
Jennifer Warlick, a Notre Dame professor of economics, followed Ferguson's presenta­tion by leading a discussion session. 
A similar conference was held on Sunday for Notre Dame faculty and graduate students. 







orld 
•I 


Monday, November 8, 1999 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
----~-=--=--=--=--=---==============--=~-=--=-=-=--=--=-=--==--================================================-=---:::-:====================== 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Florida man had materials to 
make biological weapons 
TAMPA, Flu. 
Fnd«wal agnnts found materials to makn a dParlly agPnt of biological warfare afti,r they arrnslf~d a Tamµa man for allegedly threaten­ing Colorado juclgns. Jamns Kennoth Gluck, 53, had inert ingrndinnts to make ricin gas plus Wst tubns and bnak1irs, authorities said. "Although ricin is a pol.1!nt biological toxin. 
~em is no 11vidcncc that aJJy refined ricin ,~xist,~d within the rnsidllnce," FBI agent !•rands (;allaglwr said after tlw homn was searclwd Saturday. Hidn, a powdery sub­stance. is a highly toxic clwmical derived from castor !wans or rosary peas. Gluck was arrnstnd Friday by an 1:Bl-lecl anti-torrorisrn task l'orc,i whilP li-aving a public library on his strcd. Cluck was hrdd without bond on a diargn of communicating thrnats against court onic<•rs. 
Sierra Leone rebels may give up their weapons 
FHEETOWN, Sierra Leimc 
Sonw 800 reb<ds and Llrnir former allies gavci up their weapons in compliance with Sinrra LPorw's thrPn-month-old peace accord, 
ll.N. military observers said Sunday. The dis­armanwnl <;f lighters reported in camps near Port Loko and other towns west of the capital ov.-r tlrn WPt!ktmd was a rare sign of progress amid repeatmt cnnse-lirn violations and other setbacks l'ollowing the July 8 peacn accord. i\lmost 1101111 of Lim West African nation's 45,000 fightnrs had laid down their arms until rnbel leader Foday Sankuh and his ex-junta counterpart Johnny Paul Koroma issued a radio aµpeal to their followers last week. Sankoh and Koroma. who were allies during Sierra Leone's eight-year civil war against Phisidcnt i\hrned Tejan Kahbah, have bick­ernd publicly since the peace accord while their forces have turned their guns against each other in the densely forested interior. 
Indonesian villagers demand independence 
BANDA i\CEH, Indonesia 
Buoyed by East Timor's newfound indepen­dence, thousands of villagers converged on this regional capital Sunday to demand inde­pendence for the Indonesian province of Aceh. Arriving on foot, motorcycles and trucks, pro­independence supporters took shelter in at least 30 mosques in Banda Aceh, the province's capital. Organizers said Monday's rally was likely to be the biggest show yet of anti-Indonesian sentiment in the province at the northern tip of Sumatra island. On Thursday, at least 50,000 protesters marched in the province. Over the past decade, the Indonesian military struggled unsuccessfully to wlpn out a separatist guerrilla movement that enjoyed wide public support. 
lfriiitwiitt@MiNI

Dow AMEx: 
807.47 ]ONES +339 ~asdaq:
+64.84 
3102.29 

LJ 
>46.34 
NYSF.: 
627.36 '2.6.j 
S..\iP SOO: Composite 1370.23 
Volume:

10704.48 +7.5() '114,0()0,000 
VOLUME LEADERS 

~2!:li:6til Tl§il=lfi ~ ~te.Uili I ~MU!H ~"•~1 PTU.SJI. IIIC -6.11 -~.5000 l-4.15
... 

C!">IC:PAQ Ct.lNPtJ'l'H. c•o •g. 5l •1,8\?~ :11).118 M1Cft080..,. COII.P llSPT -..a -o.noo 9l.$1li ITAPL&B lllC BPLS -4. ]6 -0.UlS 17.88 DtLL CON:PtJTU. DS!..L -.t. ;;16 -1.ell'S f.C. 75 WIIIVU QJtOLJP WIJVII •'65.B1 t9,8100 2-6.98 
Dlllfll:YtM"1-'l'J C ... -Q. 26 -.iii.UOQ a-«.31 
XILID •• '.5 .1.,.00 tie.u
••• •=

C!ICO n•Tat csco •4.91 .,.uoo 13.U OMC.t• coin ORCL •O.IC •0.,021 H.C!> 

three languages. Others left their tlowers in A number of them left for 
Associatcd Press 
"Your loss is great, your a wicker basket. One Kennedy Airport in New pain deep, but you must woman was so overcome York and T.F. Green NEWPORT, R.I. 
find solace in the memory that she had to be helped to Airport in Warwick, R.I., Relatives of the victims of of those wonderful the beach. Others wailed immediately after the cere­EgyptAir Flight 990 gath­moments you shared with and wept. mony to return to their 
ered Sunday to bid them a your loved ones," said A military honor guard homes in Egypt. the United 
wrenching farewell, with 
Egyptian Ambassador Nebil carried the basket to a States and other points. one woman wailing "My Fahmy, who read from the Coast Guard helicopter, At sea, the Navy received baby, my baby!" and others 
Bible and the Koran. which hovered overhead reinforcements Sunday as it holding onto each other 
Relatives were led to the briefly before slowly sought to retrieve the air­after an emotional service 
water through a corridor departing. The Coast Guard plane's flight data and at the edge of the sea formed by military person­said the helicopter would cockpit voice recorders where their loved ones nel and caregivers includ­drop the flowers at the from the ocean floor. 
remain. 
ing workers from Red crash site Tuesday and A civilian ship equippedAbout 250 family mem­
Cross, National make photographs with a with a newer, remote con­bers gathered on a clear. 
Transportation Safety special camera to give to trol submersible robot cold afternoon at a park 
Board and Salvation Army. the families. headed out to the area off overlooking the Atlantic Some wept and wiped Some relatives scooped the Massachusetts island of Ocean as leaders of the 
their faces with handker­up sand and pebbles and Nantucket where the Jewish, Christian and 
chiefs as they dropped took with them vials of Boeing 767 plummeted into Islamic faiths offered read­
flowers into the sea and lin­water from the ocean as the sea Oct. 31 from 33,000 ings, chants and prayers in 
gered to pray and meditate. remembrances. feet, killing 217 people. 
ISRAEL 
3 pipe bombs wound 33 in Israel 
busy with ice cream ven­night. Police beefed up peopli! gathering around 
AHociated Pre" 
dors and automatic cash patrols on the border with rne." 
machines. Sunday is a the West Bank. which runs The, Likud opposition
NETJ\NY/\, Israel 
work day in Israel, and less than 10 miles from called on Prime Minister 
On the eve of f'inal sta­most people run_ mid­the outskirts of Netanya. Ehud Barak to cancel tus talks with the morning errands and take At the moment of tho final status talks with the Palestinians, threo pipe coffee breaks at that hour. blasts, a bicycle parked by Palestinians, scheduled to bombs explo<led in this Police. who blamed mili­a lamppost was twisted begin Monday.
Israeli beach town and 
tant Islamic groups for the into a blackened wreck. Ilardliners say Barak, wounded 33 people on attack, said four people "After the explosion who revived the talks with Sunday, raising questions 
had mnderate injuries, there was this silence all the Palestinians af'ter about \>i:hether the while 29 others had minor around, I didn't know ousting a hawkish govern­Paleslinians are able to injuries. A fourth bomb where I was," David ment in May elections, is contain terror. was defused by a bomb Ratzon later told reporters keeping promises to con­
The bombs detonated disposal unit at the beach. from his hospital bod, his cede land and release simultaneously at 10:30 
Dozens of Palestinians torso and right arm prisoners while the 
a.m. local time (3:30 a.m. were arrested, but all wrapped in bandages. "l Palestinians do nothing to EST) at an intersection were released before mid-felt nothing, then I saw stop terror. 
page 6 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Monday, November 8, 1999 
Gore completes fifth New Hampshire trip 
Associated Press 
MANCHESTEH. N.H. 
Vice President Al Gore fin­ished his fifth trip to New Hampshire in four weeks Sunday with a 90-minute 
question­a n d ­answer session. 
He spoke with 200 voters at t h e Weston 

lementarv 
Gore
s C h O O ·1 
gymnasi­um and fulfilled his promise to answer every question they had. As he has done in other recent campaign stops, he stayed after the session ended to mingle with voters, sign autographs and answer more questions. 
Gore's emphasis on the state reflects increasing pressure from Democratic rival Bill Bradley, 

who has "He's running like he's however,
been run­

Gore focused
one vote behind, and
ning neck­on his own 

and -neck he'll run like that 
views. He said with Gore until February. ,. he supports a 
in New 

25 percent
Hampshire tax credit for

Doug Hattaway
polls. 

small busi­
" H e ' s Gore spokesman 
nesses that but promised to try to answer them later. 
One woman said she was having trouble finding a part time job because of her age. 
"People who are in their 60s often have a tough time," Gore responded. "I don't have a specific. suggestion right now, but we'll look for you." 
Answers like that, as well as his lengthier ones, sound­ed genuine, audience mem­bers said. 
"He's a very sincere person and he's setting a good example for young people," said Anna Armstrong, a retired teacher from Manchester. "What he tells us comes truly from the heart." 
Gore continued to attack Bradley's positions, but not his charactffr. Bradley's plan to eliminate Medicaid and give poor people government subsidies to buy into federal workers' health plans would hurt the poor, Gore said. 
For the 
most part, 
running like he's one vote behind, and he'll run like that until February," said Gore spokesman ·ooug Ha·ttaway. "We expected competition, and now we have it, and that makes for a better campaign." 
Audience members quizzed the vice president on orga­nized labor, unemployment, health care, education and school violence. He could not answer all of their questions, 

join pools to 
offer workers health insurance. 
Gore cited studies showing the average student sees 20,000 murders on television and in the movies before graduating from high school, and he said the entertain­ment media must show more restraint. 
"It's ridiculous to say 20,000 murders seen by graduation has no effect Oft our society," Gore said. 

Tht: University of :\"ot.re Dame Departmt:nl of :\fosir presents 

.Ivlonday, Novernber 8, 1999 
8:00 pn1, Hesburgh Library Auditorium Free and open to the public. 
For more information, call 631-6201 or visit www.nd.e<lur music. 
Budget talks held in Washington 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
White House and congres­sional bargainers meeting Sunday at the Capitol wran­glep over education funds and restrictions on mining and other industries as the two sides tried to further narrow their budget differ­ences. 
The disputes now cover only four of the 13 annual spending bills for the fiscal year that began Oct. 1 after months of battling over how to allocate the projected fed­eral surplus. 
Republicans have begun moving toward some of President Clinton's demands on purchasing park lands, abortion and other issues as GOP leaders hope to broker a deal and send Congress home for the year by Wednesday. 
"We could have it worked out" by then, Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott, R-Miss., told reporters. 
The remaining bills cover seven Cabinet level depart­ments and other smaller agencies, as well as foreign aid. A fifth measure dealing with the District of Columbia's budget is all but finished. 
One of the White House's primary remaining priorities was securing $1.4 billion to help communities hire thou­sands of new teachers; the funding is part of Clinton's initiative to shrink class sizes over the next seven years. 
Republicans have offered $1.2 billion but would give states flexibility to use the money for other education efforts. So far, the adminis­tration has rejected that offer. 
"Realistically, I think we are not prepared to go home until we do get more teach­ers and lower class size," John Podesta, the White House chief of staff, said on NBC's "Mellt the Press." 
Republicans were willing to provide at least $300 million of' the additional $500 mil­lion Clinton was seeking for buying park lands, the National Endowment for the Arts and other programs. 
They also were ready to water down some provisions that would help min­ing, graz­ing and 
o t h e r industries in the West but which the admin­
istration contends would damage the environment. 
GOP leaders already have told Rep. Christopher Smith, R-N.J., that he will not pre­vail on his insistence that none of the United States' unpaid U.N. dues be released until Clinton agrees to abor­tion restrictions. Smith wants to forbid family planning groups that get federal aid from lobbying overseas for liberalized abortion laws. 
Also unresolved was how much of the $1.3 billion Clinton wants for hiring local police officers he will get. 
Bargainers agreed to a compromise $15. 3 billion foreign aid bill last week and the House easily approved it. But before it can clear the Senate, it faces two remain­ing hurdles. 
Conservatives are seeking language that would bar the International Monetary Fund from selling gold reserves so it can make more loans. And in a dispute pitting Sen. Robert Byrd, D-W.Va., against the White House, Byrd is blocking Senate pas­sage of the foreign aid bill while he seeks legislation let­ting West Virginia coal mine companies continue dumping waste into the state's rivers. 
Before an overall budget 

"Realistically, I think we are not prepared to go home until we do get more teachers and lower class size." 
John Podesta White House chief of staff 
deal can be completed, the White House and Republicans must also agree to sav­ings that would let them claim they are not using Social Security sur­pluses to pay 
for other federal programs. Republicans have made that their primary remaining budget goal, following their failures to deliver tax cuts or to honor spending limits set for this year. 
"Our final Ouija board game is going to be the off­sets," or savings, said Republican Sen. Ted Stevens of Alaska, chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee. 
GOP leaders have begun offering to shrink their pro­posed 1 percent across-the­board cut in federal agen­cies budgets, which got them $3.5 billion in savings. The administration says such a reduction would be "mind­less" and too damaging, and so far has declined to accept a smaller version of the cut. 


Brad Metz, C.S.C. • Irish Guard 1992-95 Ordination Date: April 6, 2002 
Can you make this team? 

ANSWER * 
THECAlL '<!':/ 


Fr. Jim King, C.S.C Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. 
www.nd.edu/-vocation 
Monday, November 8, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page7 
Gates seeks 'fair' 
Clintons face hefty mortgage 

Associated Press
antitrust resolution 
A5sociated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Microsoft Chairman Bill Gatos said in a letter pub­lished Sunday that the soft­ware maker is committed to "a fair und responsible" reso­lution o!' its antiLrust trial. 
Meanwhile, 
Hillary Rodham Clinton
"We would need a 
on Priday's
thu .Justice 
dropped lheir original plan to
settlement that ... ruling by
Department's 
rely on a wealthy friend and 
top antitrust produces consumer V S 
political fund-raiser for help
District
enforcer said 
in securing the mortgage for
choice, innovation, and 
J u d g e 
on ABC's 
the Chappaqua, N.Y., home.
competition in the Thomas
"This Weuk" 
But critics and some mortgage
Penfield
that the gov­market." 
experts believe the financing
Jackson.
ernment is 
the Clintons settled on still
Jackson,
"looking al a 
raises questions of special
Joel Klein in the first
full range of 
treatment.
assistant attorney general phase of
remlldies" to 
The Clintons got favorable 
find the appropriate punishment, following a judge's ruling that Microsoft is a monopoly. 
Still, Assistant Atlorney Gmrnrul Joel Klein, on "Fox News Sunday," also said that "obviously settlement is always an option," lie refused to discuss specilics. 
"We would need a settle­ment that deals with the very findings that the court made 
Associated Press 
RALEIGII, N.C. 

Two Austrian sisters say a small oil painting hanging in t.he North Carolina Museum of /\rt was stolen by the Nazis during World War II, and a New York agency has tiled a formal rnquest for its return. 
Documents obtained by The News & Observer from the National Archives, the National Gallery of Art and other sourcns suggest tlrn 16th-cen­lury work by Lucas Cranach the Elder -estimated to be worth $750,000 -was taken 50 ynars ago from the Vienna home of the sisters' great­uncle, spent a brief period in the villa of the Nazi governor of Austria, and changed hands at least thrnn times bdorn ending up al the Haleigh museum. 
While the museum's curators say they arn imprnsscd by the accumulat,~d nicords, they say they need more proof that the family once owned the painting 
WASHINGTON

in this case, a settlement that 
Questions linger about the
produces consumer choice, 
Clintons' $ L 7 million pur­
innovation, and competition 
chase of their residence in a
in the market," Klein said. 
New York City suburb. The
Gates, in a full-page adver­
first couple must cope with
tisement published in The 
$8,500 monthly payments
Washington Post and 
even as they wrap up their
addressed to the company's 
eight years in the White
customers, partners and share­
!louse.
ho Ider s, 
President Clinton and
commented 
the case, 
terms to buy the five-bed­
found that room, three-story wood frameMicrosoft used its overwhelm­house, with swimming pooling dC>minance of the comput­and exercise room, where theyer software marketplace. The say they will live after leavingjudge did not idcntif~ whic~1 
the White House in JanuaryU.S. antitrust laws Microsoft 
2001. They officially boughtmight have violated or sug­the house last week.
gest how the company should be punished.. 
Mrs. Clinton must establish A separate punishment 
residency in New York if, as hearing would be held next 
expected, she seeks the year, if necessary after 
Democratic nomination for Jackson issues his final ruling. 
Senate from New York next year. "The basic, factual issue 
involved here is fairly cut and dried: Did they get an extraor­dinarily good deal? No ques­tion," said Kenneth Barney, who studies the mortgage business and writes a syndi­
Carolina museum may 
have WWII stolen art 
cated column on real estate. In short, Harney said, the
"Madonna and Child in a 
Clintons are putting down less
Landscape." The museum is bound by 
a work of art, said chief muse­um curator John Coffey. 'Tm not at all disputing the 
Associated Press claim," Coffey told the newspa­
per in an article published 
DENVER Sunday. ''I'm just aware that 
In a city where Jack Kerouac since we are dealing with state 
made the hobo life famous 
property, we have to have cer­
decades ago, a series of mur­tain legalities taken care of." 
ders and beatings has tran­In one of several memos to 
sients sleeping with their gloves museum, state and federal offi­
off so they can get to their 
cials, Coffey wrote: "The muse­
knives to defend themselves. um will find itself the unwitting 
Others have packed the owner of Holocaust/WWII loot 
Denver Rescue Mission -not illegally expropriated and sold 
to escape the cold, but to sleepby the Nazis and later resold 
without fear. Ilaundered?I by at least two art 
In recent weeks, five home­dealers of questionable ethics. 
less men have been killed and Given the increasing interna­
at least two others severely
tional call for Iinal restitution 
beaten. Police have blamed of Holocaust era claims of gold, 
some of the violence on "mall art and other property, we 
rats," groups of young men and cannot expect this problem to 
women who gather near the go away." 
trendy downtown shopping 
-~. *
~yf,'J:;J:£., Announces the Following Introductory Offers Of... 

D 10~ ,---,r----,r----,r----,,----,
~C ~ 10% OFF I $59 I I $24 I I $68 I I $69 1 
1

I Aveda 1coIor,Cut,s1yIe I I Cut & I I Perm, Cut, I I Hilites & I I Retail 1 IOne ProcessI I Style I I & Style I I Cut & Style I 
L---.J L ____ .J L----.J L----.J L ____ .J 
Please use the Special Savings invitation and get to know us. You'll be pleased with the quali­ty and ~ervice we provide, and we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. 
We hope to see you soon. 
Nol v,1liu for spiral perrns. l.011g or tinted hnir adu $ I0. No other discounts apply. Open some evenings. ATRIA Sahm re.serves the righl to rnfusc service lo uny clic111 whose hair condition is unsuitable. 
NEW Cl,JENTS ONLY 
Must Be Presented To Receptio,iist Before Services Are Performed 
(Certain Restrictions Apply) Valid with: Amy or Ariane Expiration Date: December 15, 1999 
1357 N. Ironwood Drive South Bend, IN 46615 Tel. 219-289-5080 FAX: 219-289-8804 
than most people who take The couple turned to PNC out mortgages that size, and after they droppfld a much­they did not have to make the criticized plan to accept a usual choice between paying Joan guarantee from Terry "points," or add-on fees, McAuliffe, a friend and major upfront, and getting a lower Democratic fund-raiser. interest rate overall. 
PNC was named along with 
That does not necessarily Mrs. Clinton and her 

mean the loan is improper or exploratory Senate committee even beyond the bounds that 

in a complaint filed with the any bank might consider. 
Federal Election Commission 
Banks have a great deal of a day after the Clintons set­leeway when making this kind tled on t}le house Nov. 1. 

of "super-jumbo" loan, and 

The Conservative Campaignmay evaluate a variety of fac­Fund alleges the bank is giv­tors. includ­
ing future earning 

"Ther:e is absolutely no
power, that do not fit suggestion that there is 
neatlv into anything improper
the calcula­

in this mortgage. " 
tions used for more modest Jim Kennedy 
mortgages, 

White House councel spokesman
bankers said. "There is 
ing a polit· ical candi­d ate a sweetheart deal in violation of fEC rules. 
" T h e terms and conditions of the loan insofar as they have 

been publicly revealed, are
absolutely no suggestion that 

starkly different from the
there is anything improper in 

terms and conditions avail­
this mortgage," said Jim 

able to other individuals,"
Kennedy, spokesman for the 

with similar income and
White House counsel's office. 

assets, the complaint alleged.
Kennedy said the Clintons will pay about $8,500 a month The Clintons have a report­in interest, plus periodic lump ed net worth of roughly $1.5 
sum payments toward insur­million -much of it in trust. ance and taxes. Tax records 
Clinton makes $200,000 a indicate the Clintons will pay year as president, and the about $26,000 annually in family earns about the same real estate taxes. amount annually in income The Clintoils are borrowing from the trust. the money from PNC They have about $5.5 mil­Mortgage Corp., the nation's lion in legal debts from years 12th largest home lender last of Whitewater and Monica year. PNC has not commented Lewinsky scandal investiga­on the details of the Clinton tions, but those hills are sup­loan and did not respond to a posed to be paid out of a sep­query Friday. arate, private fund. 
state laws governing public property, and that may ham­per its ability to simply return 
Teens accused in homeless attacks 
strip known as the 16th Street Mall. Many, like the victims, are homeless. 
Last week, police arrested seven young men, all between the ages of 16 and 21, and charged them with assault and robbery in attacks on a street musician and a homeless man. Two are also suspected in one of the murders. 
They "may get a sort of high or thrill by beating up people, and homeless are such an easy target," said police Lt. Judith Will. "It's sad and tragic." 
One of the victims, she said, compared a recent beating to "being attacked by a pack of hyenas." 
Authorities began cracking down on thugs in the area when the first body was found in September. They drive their police motorcycles through the teens' hangouts, question them and arrest them for minor offenses, like spitting on the sidewalk. 

An anonymous donor has contributed a $100,000 reward for arrests in the five heating deaths. 
Some of the bodies were found in the still-seedy neigh­borhood where historians con· duct a "Jack Kerouac Tour," an area made famous by the beat­nik author's "On the Road." It's a few blocks from the mall -a 13 block strip of high-class stores that has drawn an increasing number of visitors since last year's opening of the Denver Pavilions shopping cen­ter, which is part of the mall. 
LASALLE BOOKSTORE 
We' re your source for the best theological · and philosophical books-we can special order any book you need! 
AnniversarySale! 
20(Yo OFF ALL BOOKS 
NOVEMBER 8-12 
LASALLE BOOKSTORE • 234-0003 • lasalle@michiana.org 237 N. Michigan St. (at LaSalle), downtown So. Bend 
Now open until 6:00 p.m. Tuesday and Thursday! 
Open 10-5 Mon/Wed/Fri, and 11-6 Tues/fhurs 
Monday, November 8, 1999
page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Monday, November 8, 1999 The Observer . RELIGIOUS NEWS page 9 
INDIA 
Pope calls religious freedom a right 
Associated Press 
NEW DELIII 

With his minority church under lirn by some Ilindus for its missionary work, Pope John Paul II said Sunday that 
l'rec<lom to prac­tice or change 
Olltl'S 
religion must be consid­err.d a 


b a s i c Pope John Paul II 
human right. 
Frail and moving slowly in th<1 heat. the pop!l celebrated his only Mass in India on the snrne day as Diwali. ll major Hindu holiday that is marked by lights and lirocrackers. He then attPndml a meeting with representatives of other reli­i.,tions, describing it as a further sign that Homan Catholics seek dialogue with other faiths. 
"No state, no group has the right to control either directly or indirectly a person's reli­gious convictions ... or the rnspectf'ul appeal of a particu­lar religion to people's free conscience," John Paul told thum. 
The pope rested his head in his hands lhrough mosl of the I.JO-minute intnrfaith meeting, as the rnligious leaders uttered greetings in different lan­guages. 
A Jain pri,ist spoke with a mask over his mouth to avoid swallowing insects by accident, in keeping with the .Jains' b1•1ief' against endangering ani­mal lifo. /\ Parsi priest chantml a two-minute prayer for the popn's fwallh. The Sikh rnpm­sentalive was a half-hour latn because security men were wary of his four-foot silver sword, which he described as "a symbol of my authnrity." 
A ·bare-chested Hindu priest sat next to the pope, clutching the pope's hand in the air for photographers. But after­wards, the priest, Shankaracharya Madhavananda Saraswati, nxprossed reservations on the pope's view of conversions, saying. "Somelimns people change outside, but what is inside remains \\1th the human being forever." 
The visit, John Paul's second to India in 13 years, was prc­cednd by weeks of small but noisy protests frnm radical llin<lus who accuse the church of' illicitly inducing llindus. mostly from poor and illiterate tribal areas, to convert lo. Christianity. 
But the 
About 10 protesters in an open truck drove pa.st the main gate of the stadium shouting slogans and waving a black flag, but they were ignored by people streaming into the field. 
The stadium, which can seat 70,000, was only half full, reflecting the difficulty of obtaining passes which were issued only by church authori­ties. In an apparent security measure, each application had to be accompanied by a certifi­cate of good character from the person's parish. 
The pope's visit coincided with Diwali, the festival of lights, marking the victory of the god llama over the demon king Havana in Hindu mytholo­gy. IL is a holiday when families unite and often celebrate with fireworks and special candles. 
"Many people arc celebrat­
ing the festi­
val of lights," 

pope  told  "Many people are  the pope said  
people Sunday that he looks for­ celebrating the festival ofrights. We rejoice  at the Mass. "We rejoice with them."  
ward  to  a  with them. "  "The pope  
period  of  came  to  
religious coexistence  Pope John Paul II  India specifi­cally to fur- 
in  Asia.  ther  the  
Paying trib- Christian  
ute  to  the  idea of con- 

ancient cultures of the region, version. We will not allow this he spoke of "my hope and to happen." said Lokesh Pratap dream that the next century Singh, a spokesman for the will be a time for fruitful dia­World HinduCouncil. logue leading to a new rela­The 79-year-old pope tionship of understanding and appeared in good spirits, but solidarity and the tolerance of he walked slowly, using a all religions." cane. 
The Mass was celebrated in Bartholomew Abraham, a a sports stadium in New Delhi. 40-year-old businessman, trav­Before the service began, girls eled to the Mass with other in beige and red saris per­Catholics in southern India. In formed traditional Indian the current polilical climate, he dances, f'olfowed by a proces­said, people in villages view sion of cardinals and bishops Catholics as if they had "hid­from around Asia. den agendas." 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE BUSINESS DEPARTMENT PANEL DISCUSSION 
An Open .Forumfor stuc)ents Ask questions ofprevious Sctint Xctr~fs A(umni who gra3uate3 with concentrations in thefoffowing areas: 
Marketing Finance Accounting Management Economics 
IT"oikt~, 7p.m. Cctrro( Au()i torium 
23 hurt in collapse at Florida church 
Associated Press 
ALTA.t\1ONTE SPHINGS, fla. 
The concrete roof of a cov­e red walkway collapsed Sunday as churchgoers social­ized between services and ate donuts and coffee, injuring 23 people. 
Dozens of' people were on or near the 72-foot-long walkway at St. Mary Magdalene Catholic Church when the structure came down, witnesses said. 
"I heard the crash, looked out the window, saw everybody running, but I didn't know what it was all about," said Sister Rita Galligan, who heard the collapse from her home at the convent next door. "When 1 went over there, they were just lying on the ground with people all around them," 
The walkway links the church to the parish oflices, and people must pass under it to get to the parking lot. 
Eleven people were taken to hospitals by ambulance, and six of those were considered to be in serious condition, officials said. The rest either went to hospitals on their own or were treated at the scene. 

The most serious injures included a woman with a hip fracture and a woman who suf­fered a spinal injury. 
The city building inspector blamed the collapse on a nail dislodging from a rotten wood­en beam supporting the roof made of drywall and metal mesh with a stucco finish, lire spokesman Alan Harris said. 
Along the walkway a three­foot pile of debris, including crumpled metal mesh and pieces of shattered concrete, was strewn about 40 feet. Styrofoam coffee cups were also scattered about. 
"We are deeply grieved by this tragedy and our hearts and prayers go out to the families who have experience injury," said Father Charlie Mitchell. a priest at the church. 
The church, located eight miles north of Orlando, seats about 1,000 people. There are about 10,000 parishioners. 
Group protests anti-Hindu literature 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON 
More than 100 people protest­ed outside one of the nation's largest Baptist churches Sunday over a booklet that urges Southern Baptists to pray for Hindus' deliverance from the "power of Satan." 
"We want all people to under­stand that religious intolerance is rearing its head in this country," said Houston attorney Amit Misra, a leader of the coalition of local Hindu groups who orga­nized the protest. 
"Some people aren't aware of the type of hate that is being preached by mainstream churches," Misra said. 
The booklet, distributed during Divali, the major Hindu festival of lights, says Hindus have no con­cept of sin or personal responsi­bility and "worship gods which are not God." 

"Pray that the darkness and the power of Satan will be bro­ken," the guide says. 
Similar guides have been dis­tributed by the Southern Baptist Convention's International Mission Board asking Baptists to pray for the conversion of Jews and Muslims, and a booklet focusing on Buddhists is planned. 
"I think it is our God-given responsibility to pray for them to be converted," Second Baptist Church member Tara lmani said after speaking to a woman demonstrating outside the church. 
"She asked me what I think about [the Hindu belief that there arc) many paths," Imani said. "I said that there is one path. If there were many paths, then [Christians] would be fools. If they were right. it would mean Jesus was a liar, God was a liar." 


UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM 
IN 

DUBLIN, IRELAND 
"The Best of Both Worlds" 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Monday, Novembers. 1999 102 DeBartolo 4:45 PM 
With Katie Schott, Administrator Keough-Notre Dame Centre, Dublin
• 

Applications Available Application Deadline: December 1 For Fall 2000 -Spring 2001 AY2000•2001 
page 10 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, November 8, 1999 
The Native American Student Association of Notre Dame~ 
as a part of 

NJITIVE JIMERICJIN HERITJIQE WEEK ~99 
presents: 

Native American Flute Player: 
Michael Lacapa 
Tuesday, November 9th, I999 
7:30 -8:30, Lafortune Ballroom 
Native American Comedian: 
''Drew'' Lacapa 
Wednesday, November I0th I999 
7:00 -8:30, Lafortune Ballroom 
Dreamcatcher and Beading Workshops 
Thursday, November I I th 
7:00 -8:00 p.m. 

INTERCULTURAL CENTER 
Jls a part of OMSJl,s Lecture/Fine Arts Series, 
"LEADERSHIP IN DIVERSITY: RECOGNIZING OUR ROLE MODELS" 
• 
Monday, November 8, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Fatal shooting 
Scientists create lab heart valves 
shakes up casino 
Associated Press 
MONTVILLE, Conn. 

One man was shol lo death and another critically injured following an argument outside the Mohegan Sun casino, police said. 
Steven Baron was arguing with Aldore Malboeuf inside a parked car when he was shot Saturday. said state police spokesman Lt. Ralph Carpenter. Baron was pro­nounced dead on arrival at William Backus Hospital in Norwich. 
Malboeuf suffered stab wounds to the body. He was listed in critical condition Sunday at Backus Hospital, a nursing supervisor said. 
Prior to the shooting, the two men appeared to have fought inside a car, authorities said. There was no informa­tion on the relationship between the victims. 
The death was the first apparent murder at an American Indian casino in Connecticut. The casino, owned by the Mohegan Indians, opened three years ago and is one of two Indian-owned casinos in the state. 

. Animal, mechani­cal valves not as durable as new tissue approach 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 

In search of better spare parts, scientists for the first time have grown heart valves from scratch in a test tube, then shown that they work like nature's own -at least in ani­mals, researchers said Sunday. 
The approach, called tissue engineering, is intended to cre­ate a fresh source of heart valves to replace those that wear out or are faulty from birth. Using the recipient's own cells, researchers hope to construct valves that will grow as the recipient does and work without blood-thinning drugs. 
So far, the experiments have been conducted on lambs with the valves grown at Children's Hospital in Boston by Dr. Simon Hoerstrup, who described the results at the annual scientific meeting-of the American Heart Association. 
"What's exciting is the possi­bility of making valves that are exactly like our own. That's the potential here," comment­ed Dr. Valentin Fuster of Mt. Sinai Medical Center in New York City. 
Heart valves open and shut so blood will tlow in only one direction through the heart. When they deteriorate or leak, surgeons replace them with either mechanical valves ­made from metal, ceramics, plastic, Dacron and other materials -or valves taken from pigs and other animals. Neither kind is ideal. 
The animal valves tend to wear out, so they must be replaced. And the mechanical ones, while more durable, can trigger the development of blood clots, so recipients must taking blood-thinning drugs that can cause unwanted bleeding. 
Young patients with -heart defects currently must undergo several potentially life-threat­ening valve replacement oper­ations as their hearts outgrow their mechanical valves, which is why the Boston Then they attach the cells to the form. 

Within two weeks in a nutri­ent-rich culture. the cells mul­tiply and completely envelop the scaffolding, which then decays. 
Past attempts to make work­ing valves the same way have failed because the valves, while they looked normal, were too weak to withstand the pressure of pumping blood. This time, the researchers pumped fluid through the scaf­folding as the valve grew, mim­icking the effects of a pulse and conditioning the valve so it developed the strength of a normal one. 
Six animals have had the new valves for about five 
months. It is 
not long 

researchers are especially interested in valves that  "Whats exciting is the possibility ofmaking valves that are exactly  enough to evaluate how the valves will  
will  grow  like our own. That's the  hold  up  
with recipient.  the  potential here."  over a life­time, but  
The  test­ they  seem  
tube  valves  Valentin Fuster  to be work­ 
appear answer  to the  doctor  ing without the need for  
problem, but  blood thin- 
it likely will  n  e  r  s  ,  

be five years or more before although there has been some they will be ready for human leakage of blood back through use, Hoerstrup said. the opening covered by the 
The scientists start by valves, Hoerstrup said. removing cells from one of the "We have· good reason to lamb's arteries and growing a think that the valves are grow­mass of the cells in a test tube. ing in the sheep," lloerstrup Next. they use biodegradable said, but he cautioned that polymers to create a scaffold­much more work needs to be ing in the shape of a valve. done. 
SOCIAL CONCERNS  "PiungE11  •nt . thE nE~t m•UEnn•um... tj .:.' fl 11 ,,  
DEADLINE EXTENDED:  
Monday, November 8th  

"The Urban Plunge opened my eyes to a city that was always there, but hidden to me before. I encountered common day prophets against a background of poverty and despair. Forty-eight hours inspired me to take the next step and serve." -Lou Nanni 
Limited spaces still available in: Be part of history: 
Albany Los Angeles 
Participate in one of the country's longest Atlanta Milwaukee 
standing and most respected programs of 
Buffalo Minneapolis 
experiential learning. 
Cincinnati Phoenix 
Join the Urban Plunge program as it
Cleveland Sacramento Columbus Saint Petersburg forges into the rie~t m•Uerin•um Detroit San Antonio Grand Rapids South Bend 
Pick up and drop off your registration form 
Honolulu Tacoma, WA 
at the Center for Social Concerns TODAY.
Joliet, IL Vero Beach, FL 
Questions? Call Jay Caponigro, 631-5293. 
Louisville, KY Washington, DC 
DEADLINE EXTENDED: Monday, Nov. 8th 


VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

page 12 BSERVER Monday, November 8, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Bo< Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Norrc Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN ClllEF Michelle Krupa 

MANAGING Eun-OR  BUSINF.SS MANAGER  
M. Sha11non Ryan  David Rogcro  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura l'etdle  

NFWS EDITOR, Tim Logan VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen 
SPORTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler SCENE EDITOR, Michael Vanegas 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Noreen Gilltspie 
P!i0TO EDITOR, Kevin Dalum 
ADVI'RTISING MANAGER: Bryan Lutz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Brt::r Huelar SYSTEMS AnMIN!STR.AT0R, Michael Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushto 
CONTROL1£R: Timorhv Lane 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 
CONTACT Us 

OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAL lNF0..............63 1-7471 FAX.............................................................6.31-6927 
ADVERTISING...................................631-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEf............................:...........631-4542 MANAGING En1ToR/AsST. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS.......................................................... 63 l-5323 
observer.obsnews. I@nd.edu VIEWPOINT................................................. 631-5303 observer. viewpoint. I@nd.edu SroRTS........................................................631-4'543 observer.spom. l@nd.edu ScENE.........................................................631-4540 observeucene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S......................................... 631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOTO........................................................631-8767 
SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 

Visit our Web site at http:llobserver.rid.edu for daily updates ofcampus news, spores, features and opinion columns, as well as canoons, reviews and breaking news from ,he Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-the 
movies/music for 
minute foreca.srs 

weekly scudenc reviews 
online features for spe­
advertise for policies 
and rares of prim ads 

cial c-.unpus coverage 
archives m sear~h for 

about The Observer 
an:ides published after 

to meet rhc editors and 
sraff
August 1999 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent. daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of rhe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Edirnrial comenr. including adverrisemem.s, is not goV<rned by policies of the administration of either imtitution. The Observer reserves the right to rduse advertlsen1ents based on content. 
The news is reported as ..ccurardy and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, • Assistant Ma.naging Edirnr and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of rhe authors and nor necessarily rho.se ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is avaibble to all readers. The free expn,ssion ofall opinion, through letters is encouraged. Lecrers ro the Editor mw.r be signed and must include conracr informarion. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMichelle Krupa. 
When will we take off our clothes? 
"I like girls who wear Abercrombie and 
Fitch I I'd take her ifl had une wi:,h." -lyrics from a current hit by LFO "America. when will you be angelic? 
When will you take offyour clothes?" -Allen Ginsberg 
There is a world far, far away (but reachable by phone, "please have your credit card standing by") called Abercrombieland. In this shiny, happy world everyone is a sexpot and a tease. People spend their days frolicking. They frolic through aquamarine oceans and splash just enough to get that dewy, do-me look while still maintain­ing their wholegrain athlete side. They frolic by their lockers. They frolic at barbecues. Everyone is always riding piggy back and dropping their five-pocket cargo pants so as to (tee-hee) reveal the plaid boxers under­neath that match their hazel green eyes. The Abercrombieites are mostly white. They are all thin, acne-free and 20.4 years old. If you are really cool (and, more importantly, don't mind spending $29.50 for an "Old School Varsity Tee") they'll let you into their club. His pees will swell; my legs will never need shav­ing. Suddenly -poof1 -everything that is not photogenic or photographable will disappear like an Oxified pimple. Our biggest dilemmas will be small. 
The marketers at Abercrombie & Pitch are geniuses. They held a conference with the folks from "Bud"-"Weis"-"Er" and ".Just do it" (I shall) Nike and all potential Tommy Girls and the buoyant­bosomed women (or shall we call them "Angels?") from Victoria·s embarrass­ingly publ.ic Secret. Why should these companies pay for advertising space if they can convince hordes of deep-pock­eted college kids (henceforth referred to by their proper name: "Target Group") to advertise for them? So freshmen pay to buy Budweiser ads in the form of glossy posters and hang them up next to Victoria's Wondergirl in her Wonderbra. So juniors join teams that don't exist ­pledging their frattish allegiance to Abercrombie Varsity Lacrosse or Crew. (East-coast prep school sports are best -there is no Abercrombie aerobics because no one is fat and there is no Fitch bowling because, well, how sexy is that?) 
Abercrombie & Fitch produces a thick magazine of sorts to which you must subscribe so as to buy a bottle of "Woods cologne." The catalog is called the "Quarterly Heview." In a recent issue, "Innocents Abroad," A&F reporters traced the path of American University students to London. One of the pseudo­features in this issue was titled "Driver's Ed." The question posed was this, "Which is the better Sports Utility Vehicle -Jeep or Land Rover?" One of the categories was "hooked up with." The Land Rover drivers "hooked up with" five UCLA Bruins. The Jeep own­ers met "one ho." Lovely. Land Rover wins. In another category. called 

"Owner's occupation" Land Rover dri­vers were "doctors, lawyers or pimps." Jeep owners were 'teachers, waiters or Divine Brown." Land Rover wins again. 
In another aTticlc, called "Scottish Brew Crawl," reporter Rob Story and "some guy named Scuby," tell of their trip out of London and to the Highlands. "By the time Scuby and I reached London's outskirts, merry olde England had become an impersonal priss. The motorways leading out of town were California-esquc in their huge size and careless speeds. Visuals consisted of signs. Signs of mass-produced, conglom­erate-controlled Zooropa. Burger King. Shell Oil. KFC. BP. The ancient country of Chaucer and Shakespeare may as well have been Anaheim." Oh, Scott. It is of a seamless garment. The "mass-pro­duced. conglomerate-controlled" world that you bemoan is the same world you work for. Include A&F in your list of acronyms. Be young, have fun, drink Pepsi. 
In the feature "Electric EccentTics," the Abercrpmbie Anglophiles appropri­ated all of the "wildly creative geniuses ·and flat-out freaks" who have flourished in Great Britain. Apple is prostituting Gandhi, a man who used a spinning wheel, to sell computers. Apple has Amelia Earhart, a woman who knew (correctly) how to think differently, sell­ing their slogan "think different." Why shouldn't Abercrombie & Fitch -the company responsible for 

a self-imposed return to warmth as effective as
"If you peruse the pages 
uniforms on too many any cable knit crew.) 
of1 Crew more often
campuses -use David Contrary to popular Bowie, Oscar Wilde, than you pick up belief. we arc not what Dame Edith Sitwell and we own. There are
The New Yorker.

the decidedly un-buff, ways to show this. If 
you are in trouble. " 
varsity reject Boy you peruse the pages of 
George to sell its prod­uct? Everything's for sale. 
Abercrombie & Fitch (and Gap and Tommy Hilfiger and Polo) want you to buy the whole package. Hook, line and sinker. The Quarterly Review gives dat­ing advice and tells you what music to listen to. They are selling a lifestyle. not life. Thev market celebrities, not heroes. They see "target groups," not communi­ties, and a "global economy" not the pre­cious and fast-fading heritage of' region­al dress. They suggest you find the Cliff Notes. not the book. They want you to pay a lot of money for clothes with adjectives like "destroyed" so you may look (how quaint and proletariat) poor. They hand out filler -"Feel the fight inside you," or "What it boils down to is that match in the linals" -not philoso­phy. It's all so easy. 
We never have to think. 
But, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents. that is why we are here. Socrates said it long ago, "to find yo·urself. think for yourself." Are we so easily bought? 

Some of tho more popular Notre Dame gear for sale this year was designed by a very unironic soul. You can buy shirts with the initials "ND" arranged to look like the POLO logo. You can buy "Old Notre Dame" shirts -just like Old Navy. You can buy "UND" shirts that are a perfect copy of the familiar thin lines of CAP or the arch of The North Face. Is that why we are here? Are we being trained to be better consumers? Is Notre Dame one more pleasing tag? Is our education one more receipt in a long line of purchases? Who are we? The num­bers on our VISA Gold? The amount of money we've invested in mutual funds? The number of shoes in our closets (in my closet) in proportion to the rest of the world? 
All too often it is that faceless "rest of the world" making our clothes. Last March, the adminlstration appointed a task force to consider Notre Dame's ties to sweatshops. There are many hard questions to be asked. Should we use overseas factories? Why have we appointed a multinational accounting firm (PriceWaterhouseCoopers) to moni­tor our facilities as opposed to a human rights group? What constitutes a living wage? Why has Notre Dame not dis­closed the location of their factories? What is the difference between capital­ism and a market economy? Why are we still allowing 14-year-old kids to work 60-hour weeks to make Notre Dame apparel? These questions demand, at the very least, our thought and our power as a "target (and much targeted) group." You do not have to buy. (Or, if you must. got a pint of Ben and Jerry's. Their employment policies are extraor­dinary and much "Cherry Garcia" ice 
cream will add layers of 

J. Crew more often than you pick up The New Yorker, you are in trouble. If I know the folly of the Quarterly Review better than the wis­dom of Dostoevsky or Dickinson, then I am in trouble. If you "like girls who wear Abercrombie & Fitch." how do you feel about them when they are in sweat­pants (sans logo) and their mascara is smeared? 
There is a campus coat drive going on 
and some stocked Salvation Armies in 
town. The Task Force on Sweatshops 
wants to know that you would rather 
knit your own sweaters than not know 
what and how and who goes into the 
stitching of Notre Dame apparel. 
There is a poet with a question for us. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, "When will you be angelic? When will you take off your clothes?" 
Mia Nussbaum is a junior. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­. sarily. those ofThe Observer. 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 
THE ATT£NOANC£ AWARD G0£5 TO JUD'( FOR MISSING TH£ MOST DAYS. 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Labor is prior to. and independent of, capi­tal. Capital is the only fruit oflabor. and could never. have existed iflabor had not first existed. Labor is the superior ofcapital and deserves much the higher consideration." 
Abraham Lincoln 16th president of the United States 

VIEWPOINT 
. OTHE 
Monday, November 8, 1999 BSERVER page 13 

Holtz is gone, let's move on 
Lasl week, Observer readers were treated to yet another diatribe by someone lamenting that Lou Holtz is no longer coaching football at Notre Dame. Can'l we pul a statute of limitations on these'' Sonwonn should also run a cross-check of the persons who write these typn of letters. I wonder what pPrccntage of these leUer­wril11rs also wrote complaint lettors about Iloltz himself, bPcause he didn't throw the ball 1mo11gh to the tight end or for committing some other fan-felony. 
Lou I loltz did some won­derf'ul things for Notre Dame, and for that, we should all be grateful. but Lou lloltz is not bigger than Notre Dame (and was often quoted as saying that). 1111 staylld one year too long. For some reason, Lou has had a history of keeping his sclf-dustruct button in tlw "ready" position. Lou was not fired. lie resigned. Don't take my word for it. Head his published comments from that time. especially his comment that he might have made a different decision if he had been able to confer with either his wife (who was ill) or his son (who was busy coaching in Connecticut}. Read also the public comments by ll()ltz, later echoed by athletic director Mike Wadsworth, that Holtz was told, in his annual evaluation, that he could stay at Notre Dame, as long as he followed the rules. Sounds like a life­time contract to me. 

=--------------------=-------, change in head bas-
That Lou took it as lifetime probation is ketball coaches, his problem, not and, IF Wadsworth Mike Wadsworth's. chose to tell J\nd, dtws anyone in MacLeod he had the addition to Lou option to resign, is lloltz think Handy that so terrible? Moss would have EVERYONE who been a good fit for knows John Notre Dame? An a Macleod, knows he recr.nt story out of is a line man. ALL Minneapolis, Lou of his players were was STILL express­disappointed when ing regrets that his tenure ended. Moss did not enroll Ask them now, how at Notre Dame. they feel about 
Our most recent Coach Matt Iloltz apologist slat­Doherty. Two points ed that Wadsworth they have made are lied about the Holtz that Doherty's prac­resignation, while tices are more also mentioning intense and more that llollz took a based upon learning new job within his system and cor­days. Since I loltz recting errors. had his new job in MOST importantly, plac(i MUCI I quicker he asks the players than Notrn Dame about how school is was able to hire a going and has taken replacement coach. corrective action for who does it seem players missing was Lim schemer in school assignments. that drama? I have known 
Thank goodness Mike Wadsworth for that Bob Davin, 38 years. We are handpicked by Lou classmates. It is Iloltz. was available doubtful that there whr.n Holtz dragged were any members out his rnsignation, or our class better putting Mike respected. Mike has Wadsworth in the carried himself with uncomfortable posi­dignity and class for 
tion of needing a head coach in place quickly because of the upcoming recruiting season. Davie was one of thp, most sought-after young coaches in the coun­try when Notre Dame inked him, although, like Knute Hockne and Joe Paterno, he had no previ­ous head coaching experience 
Our letter-whiner went on to ding Davie for the Joe Moore case. How any jury could believe that Notre Dame practices age discrimination is beyond me. One need only look at how many persons are employed on campus despite being way beyond the tradition retirement age. 
Be that as it may, the jury apparently chose to focus on two words which may or may not have been spoken by Coach Davie. I have a completely different take on the matter. Joe Moore smoked at practice, between assaulting players and ridi­culing lloltz. and REFUSED to participate in the recruiting duties assigned to all coaches. After watching a 60-yard team rushing effort against the Air Force Academy, Iloltz took over some of the offensive line coaching duties from Moore. There were indications that Holtz, had he remained, was going to retire Moore. Considering his resume and great success at Notre Dame, why has Joe Moore NOT been pickcd up by another college or NFI. team? Arn they all practicing age discrimination? 
Nobody except Davie and Moore know exactly was spoken between the two of them, but we do know two things. The first is that Bob Davie visit­ed Joe Moore, face to face, man to man, and told him he could no longer continue on the coaching staff. Davie COULD have left a message on Moore's answering machine, as USC did when they fired John Hobinson, one of their head coaching legends. J personally admire Davie for doing the manly thing. The other thing we know is that Joe Moore had a long phone call with Tim Pristcr, the editor of Blue and Gold. Tim Prister is the most knowledgeable and most objective person covering Notre Dame football today. Prister has reported in his newspaper that Moore was very upset at being fired and com­plained about Davie and a lot of other things. Pristcr also reported that these complaints did NOT include any reference to age. Moore sud­denly remembered THAT little thing after some Notre Dame basher put him in touch with a pub­lic relations firm and law firm. 
Our latest letter-whiner also stated that Wadsworth lied about John MacLeod's resigna­tion. IF. Wadsworth felt that eight years of los­ing, with no sign of improvement, was enough 
reason to make a 

his entire life. You can't fake that to people who've watched from your youth. Mike is a gentleman. Mike has NEVER defended himself to these letter-whiners, and he'll probably tell me I shouldn't have writ­ten this, but I hate to see a good friend mistreat­ed. He is a TRUE Notre Dame man. If our latest letter-whiner had one tenth the dignity of Wadsworth, he wouldn't be so graceless in attacking him. Come to think of it, our letter­whiner should "get a life." 
Cappy Gagnon graduated in 166. His column appears every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

WVFI is the Irish's Fighting Voice 
When friends and family back home continually ask about school -how are classes? how are your friends? how did the dance go? you need HO_W much money? -what they are basi­cally attempting to do is be a part of campus life. Whether an alumnus longing to be in college again, a friend who wanted to come here but couldn't get in or just a concerned parent ­people want to be involved with this· university. When winter comes and football season is over, there arc few actual ways to keep the Irish spirit going outside South Bend. One such means was WVPI. the student radio station located in LaFortune. 
After years of a weak signal that hampered the size of the lis­tening audience, we upgraded our system to a global Internet system. Not only could all of campus now hear our station, but theoretically so could anyone in the free world whu had a com­puter and nothing better to do. After a year of telling my friends about this phantom radio show I had, they could now listen for themselves. 
But recently this global capacity has been taken away, and the station is back to square one. The students who work at WVFl really do care about making the station the best of its kind-the constant frustration of setbacks like this only serve to make us work harder in our goal. The powers that be need to realize that they are not only helping WVFI but also Notre Dame as a whole by expanding us over the internet. 
The University will see no increase in beloved revenue nor will there be any expansion on campus of modern looking buildings that don't blend in with all the others. Por once the benefit will arise from what should be the main intent of a school-student satisfaction. 
Dominic Biscuso 
Sophmore, Sorin Hall November 7, 1999 

Religious groups favored over private individuals 
The so-called "Religious Liberty Protection Act" (HLPA) is spe­cial entitlement legislation favoring religious groups over pri­vate individuals, businesses and secular organizations. It threatens the fair application of anti-discrimination laws, work place codes of behavior (such as dress codes). public zoning laws child welfare laws, and the administration of prisons. 
People can always claim as a religious front organization that certain races or groups are evil and should not be hired or housed. Laws against such discrimination can be construed as an "undue burden" on what is alleged to be religion. Right here in Peoria recently a so-called "Church" disciple went on a killing spree. Would search of such "Church" premises for guns and explosives be an "undue burden?" 
People can claim that dress codes prohibiting clothing pro­moting religion such as "What Would Jesus Do?" sweat shirts or other paraphernalia at work are restrictive. Would prohibit­ing such displays by governmel1t-paid election workers at the polls be infringing on their religious liberties? 
HLPA itself is a legislative attempt to overturn the 1997 U.S. Supreme Court decision, Boerne v. Flores, in which a church used the Religious Freedom Restoration Act (RFRA) to evade local zoning restrictions on the size of buildings. Do people real­ly want the new mammoth-sized super churches with all the attendant crowd and traffic problems in their neighborhoods? Historic preservation laws can also be evaded using RI.PA. 
It astounds me that in this day and age Medicare and Medicaid pay for faith healing even at a distance. RLPA will allow gullible believers to go one step further and fail to obtain professional medical care for their sick children with impunity -immunity from laws that prevent child neglect. 
We all know how Watergate crooks set up ministries in pris­ons. These followers can claim that certain prison rules and regulations are contrary to their faith. Wine and even drugs such as hashish and peyote can be considered sacramental. Timothy Leary claimed LSD was a sacrament. 
RLPA is an exercise in futility and will be struck down as unconstitutional just as the original RFRA was. Justice John Paul Stevens wrote that RFRA provided churches with a legal instrument which "no atheist" could hope to obtain. Senators should not indulge in useless political posturing. 
Jim Senyszyn Peoria, Ill. November 6, 1999 


O
Tt-lE 

page 14 BSERVER Monday, November 8, 1999 
Healthy living under Dome begins behind it 
By COURTNEY KERRIGAN Scene Writer 

Not too many people feel the need to venture beyond the Main Building. The Dome, which has served as a source of inspiration and high aspirations to many Domers, symbolizes the top of the hill of success. However, University Health Services and the Counseling Center occupy a little-known part of the Notre Dame campus -the area behind the Dome. 
Making their homes in a tan-col­ored building with a green tower, Health Services and the Counseling Center am two of those gems of Notre Dame no one seems to want to learn about. Who would'! After all, it's like a mini-hospital, and hardly anyone is fond of hospitals. 
But surprisingly enough, Health Services is quite comfortable, lack­ing that famous hospital smell and complete with almost anything to handle a crisis a typical college stu­dent might run into. Walking into the Health Services building, one might feel a little lost, eveu appre­hensive about what they might find there. But the atmosphere is rather inviting. surprisingly cheerful and positive, considering most people who are here have come because of some type of health problem. 
The halls and rooms are impecca­bly clean and organized, much like those little examining rooms you would find at the pediatrician's office which most students have outgrown. The nurses are all friendly and eager to help and direct students to wherever they need to be. The doctors. though busy, are completely normal and definitely not to be feared. 
Megan McMullen, a sophomore from Badin Hall who stayed at Health Services after being hit by a car, was treated by Dr. James Moriarty, a physician and chief of medicine at Health Services. 
"Dr. Moriarty is very personable and friendly. He helped out a lot when I stayed there, and the nurses are awesome and really sweet," she said. 
Located on the northern edge of campus, the Health Services building is near Keenan and Stanford Halls, behind the Dome -or raiher, beyond the Dome -and St. Ed's Hall. It is open 24 hours a day, seven days a week and closed only during vaca­tions. Physicians are available for appointments and walk-ins from 9 
a.m. to 5 p.m., and registered nurses are available 24 hours a day, in case of an emergency or any type of prob­lem, small or large. 
Health Services boasts many of the services a small commuuity like Notre Dame would normally need. They hav~ experience treating problems like mono, various sexually transmitted diseases, eating disorders, the chicken pox and sore throats. They also give allergy shots. 
There is also a pharmacy, where prescription medications, over-the­counter medicines and medical sup­plies arc available. A written prescrip­tion by a University physician can be filled at a local community pharmacy as well, using only a student ID card as payment. There is a laboratory and X-ray lab, both provided by local med­ical centers. The in-patient unit is located on the second floor, with vi1;it­ing hours until 9 p.m. There are 14 beds available for students upon orders of a University physician. Overnight stays at the Health Center are free-of-charge for those living on campus, and arc only a modest daily charge to off-campus students. There 

is also a medical services van that stu­
dents take for non-emergency trans­
portation to and from off-campus 
medical facilities. It runs from 12:15 
to 5:~0 p.m. 
In the unfortunate case that one 
might need to venture beyond the 
Dome to make use of these services. 
the good news is that Notre Dame 
tuition covers initial visits to the 
Health Center, which could cost about 
$50 to $100 in the real world. 
"The philosophy of the University 
has always been that it supports what­
ever it takes to keep a student in 
school and as well as they can be," 
said Ann Thompson, director of 
University Health Services. 
However, students are responsible 
for the cost of lab tests, X-rays, injec­
tions (including allergy shots, the 
meningitis vaccination, etc.), medica­
tions, medical supplies, medical proce­
dures and consultations with physi­
cians, hospitalization or treatments 
outside University Health Services. 
There is also a student insurance pro­
gram available, designed to supple­
ment services provided at Health ·Services. 
Health Services is also responsible 
for issues of wellness and··programs 
around campus to educate students. 
"There is a student advisory commit­
tee that is working with issues of edu­
cation that might appeal to the stu­
dents," explained Thompson. 
They also work closely with the 
Office of Alcohol and Drug Education, 
located .in LaFortunc Student Center, and Campus Security, which is sepa­rate from Health Services, but inter­venes when there are medical issues with students. 
Currently, Health Services is work­ing on organizing new programs aimed at eating disorders. Thompson is working on this new project first­hand. 
"It will be up to the students that need some assistance to come to us, and we will get them in a program of treatment and support to help them," she said. "We also want to provide education for peers and for the friends of people with eating disorders because although not all students who need help are going to come in for treatment, we need to support the stu­dents who live with these kids." 
Thompson stresses that although Health Services and the Counseling Center are separate entities that usu­ally complement and support each other, they will be coming together to work on the issue of eating disorders at Notre Dame. 
The University Counseling Center {UCC), which provides counseling and psycho-educational services to stu­dents and doctoral training for stu­dents in the Psychology Counseling Program. is located on the third floor of the Health Services building. Although the work that goes on there is not quite of the same nature as that of the two floors beneath it, the utmos­phere is still just as cheerful and invit­ing. Problems students bring to the center may be more emotionally charged, bnt the staff of 25 is quite capable of handling the many issues '.'Jotro Dame students come to them for. They are involved not only in service hut in researr.h and training as well. 

The Counseling Center provides a broad range of professional services in group or individual settings for developmental, environmental and remedial needs of students. The staff at UCC, made up of psycholo­gists, counselors, social workers and a nutritionist, is dedicated to helping students overcome or deal with all sorts of emotional prob­lems. Confidentiality is a big deal at the Counseling Center. and it's taken very seriously. 
"Students are afraid to talk to us about issues that might violate du Lac, but in the case of an emer­gency or a crisis, things like that can be dealt with," said Rita Donley, assistant director at the Counseling Center. 
The Counseling Center is respon­sible for many on-campus activities as well. "We do presentations in classes, awareness weeks, RA train­ing in the dorms, crisis intervention; we've confronted campus ministry about gay and lesbian issues; we've done various studies on eating dis­orders," said Donley. "And aside from all the public activities, we also ·see about eight to 10 percent of the student body to help them deal with their own or others' problems. 
"Although some of the students we see come in for depression and other major problems, we also can help students deal with normal everyday problems, such as transi­tioning from high school to college, roommate difficulties, relationships. The problem is that most people wait until it's a huge problem." she added. 
"Many students who visit the Counseling Center come because they feel different, typically stu­dents of diversity, whether it be economical, racial, religious or even a unique personality. We help these students figure out who they are and validate their feelings," Donley said. 
The UCC has the resources to help students with all kinds of difficulties they might face. It has groups and individual sessions to remedy prob­lems that are rather minor, like stress management, time management, aca­demic difficulties and life and career planning. For the student with more personal issues, there is assistance for interpersonal relationships. explo­ration of values, personal growth and well-being, social and sexual differ­ences, self-esteem problems and voca­tional guidance. 
The staff of the UCC is also qualified to handle dilemmas relating to loss and grief, anxiety, depression, alcohol and drug abuse and eating disorders. However, this doesn't limit the capa­bilities of the Counseling Center in any way. 
"Students who are having small problems now should seek help while the problems are still manageable," said Donley. "If they don't feel that the Counseling Center can help them, the staff here will refer you to people in the community." 
The Counseling Center and University Health Services exist for the benefit of the students; they really want to make life as manageable and enjoyable as possible. If need be, a visit to either of these establishments would only help make any situation easier to deal with. So if you are one of those people who has been avoiding the University Health S¢rvices at all costs, take the nex.t step,, Dare to ven­ture beyond the Dome. "" 

NSIDER 
OTHE 

Monday. November 8, l999 BSERVER Notre Dame ar Tennessee 
Notre Dame falls from Rocky Top 
Il}' Tl M CASEY 
Sport~ Writer 
KNOXVILLE. Tmm. 

NPv1•r liPl'on' had Noi.rl' Damn b1~m1 so .-xitPd wlwn trailing in a game. 
Down I(). 7 l:tlP in Urn l'irst hair or Saturday's gamn against Tc•111111sseo, lhn Irish wPrP in a l'ortu11alf' position against t!H· dPli'nding national champions. 
Tlwv had rPboundt>d aflnr a Jarious .J,wksi'rn intPruiption on th~ir first offon­siw Sl'rics. t\ml allnr a missed 25-yard lit'ld goal hy David Millor late in the lirst quartPr. Aud al'lnr nunH'rous wasted opportu11ili1•s in good field position. 
Tlw Irish didn't let a crowd of 107,hf'l, IIH• snrnnd largPst in Neyland Stadium history, or lhP evnr-prnsont Hocky Top folk song Pchoi11g through tlw ~ladiurn, dislrnd t.lwm. 
"W1• W«'l'I' 1'1•1•li11g prt!lly good about cnrrs1•ivPs at 10-7," offPnsiw r.oordinntor K1•vi11 HogPr~ said. 
ThPn rnmn n dispul!~d penalty that turrwd 1lw momPntum back to thn honw · tPalll. 
Willi I ::U IP(l in tlw first. half', on third­and <~ from tlw Notn• llalllt\ 47-yard lirw, al'LPr quartPrbark TPP i\1artin lhniw a II i111·0111pll'l<~ pass int!'nd<•d for Bobby (;raham. tlw n'li-rPPs thrPw tlwir nags. IJ1•f'p11sivP 1•nd (;rant Irons was nffsidns. 
l11stPad of' gi•Uing tllf' hall back with a mi11t1IP n•maining, tlw Irish gavn Urn Vfl!s 111111llH•r chan,·l'. 
'l'Plllll'SS!'t' took advantagP. 
\larlin t'Ollllf't'lPd l'or a 2-yard tmu:h­dow11 pass lo Lric l'ark1•r with ninn sec­omls rt•111ai11i11g lo put llw Vols ahead 17-7. 
"I didn't J'f'l'I I was ol'lsiclPS b11L S()IJW­1i11ws t.lw offidals lrnvl' a bt\tlPr vi11w­poi11t." Irons said, "I lookPd at tlw ball, lookt•d at wlwrP I was posiliorrnd and tho11ght I was in llw 1·01TPrt position. So11wli11ws you ('iln lw ovPrly aggressivP ancl that was till' 1·asP." 
S1·ori11g IwicP against a dnf1\nSP ra11k1•d i\:o, fi in tlw country in total rl"1'1•r1sl', yiPlding l?'J.:l yards iwr ganrn. prov1•d to IH• too diffkul1 as tlw Vols nuiSl'd to a :18-14 victory. 
"t;ivP TPnnPssnP rrndil, llwv b1>at 11s," Bob ll,1viP said. "\Vp made• il·a ganw in 11w lirsl hall' !Jut that tourhdnwn before 1IH· half hurl us." 
11 didn'l takf' long l'or TP111wsst>ti to gl'l 011 IIll• srorf'!ioard. 
Al't1•r B11y11orh Thompso11 inLnrcnptt•cl .lal'kson's pass, llw Vols had tlw ball on lllf• Noln• D,11111· 14-yarcl lilHL Tlw Irish df'!'p11sP hf'!d thf' Vols lo six yards on tlrn lhrf't' Sllf'l'l'SSiVP plays. But an !\lex Walb' 24-y11nl fit'ld goal put Tnnnnssrni alwad fly thn•1•. 
ThP Irish had a f"lrnm·p lo tie the game with :u SP1·1111<ls ll'rt in Lhl' quartnr, but possession. But when the ball was kick straight ahead. Before any was revisited. tlw Notn' l>anw kir.king wocis conlilllH\d · snapped, holder Jpey Gcthcrall frcplac­Tcmrnssne defenders could get to it, the "It was a lousy call on my part," as Mil!f'r missPd wide right. ing first stringer .lames Caputo), picked Notre Dame kicker foll on the ball, giving Rogers said. "I thought it was a yard 
BP!tir1) that. on tlwir first thrne possns­tlw ball off the ground and ran. I !is four the Irish u fresh si.art in the l'ourth quar­(l'ourth-and-1). Wn trind to run up tlw sio11s, tlw Irish startl'.d on llwir 36, 45 yard gain gave the Irish the lirst down ter. line of scrimmagn in an unbalanced for­and 40-yanl li1w without passing tlrn from the 4-yard line. Two plays later "We knew from the first kickoff," mation so tlwy wouldn't gnt misalignnd TP!l!lf'SSIH' 4t,-yard li1w. David GivPns sr.arnpcrcid in f'rnm two Davie sairl; refcrring to when he decided and call it on the first soumL It was my 
"W1· gavP 011rs1·lves a chanu' in llw yards out. cutting the Tennessee load to try the onside kick. "We felt like wn fault." kirkinif ganw with tlw kickoff riiturns," I0-7. It was the first rushing touchdown had a chance to get that. It was just a Tennnssec ruspondnd with an 18-play, llavh• said, "Bul Wt! just rouldn't capitnl· against the Vols defense all year. matter of when we were going to do it in 91-yard touchdown drive, lasting 9:48 iZP on thn fipj(I positin11." Tennessee expanded its lead to 31-7 in the game." that provided the margin ol' victory. 
Following Mi!IH's miss, Marlin thn third quarter on a Martin touchdown The Irish responded by marching "We took our shots," Davie said. "Wn m,uTh(,d t.lw Vols 80 yards down the pass to Leonard Scott and a 40-yard downto the Tennessee 9-yard line. But knew we'd have to stop up and do some lii•ld in :1:4 I nilminating with a 21-yard touchdown run by Travis Henry. on fourth-and-2, Jackson handed off to things to have a chance to makn this to11t'l1down pass to Donte Stallworth. Gcthcrall gave the Irish hopn late in Fisher up the middle. lie was stoppml by game competitivc. All you ask is that 
Milin lirwd up l'or a11oth1:r fkld goal, third, scoring on a revorse. On the ensu­a yard. your players play hard and our kids did this tinw from 2:~ yards out on th,, next ing kickoff, Jim Sanson tapped an onside Tho miscommunicaton of past games that" 


quote of the game 

stat of the game
player of the game 
2.8 yards per carry
Tee Martin 
"That football game was played 

The Irish hoped the Volunteer 
Martin completed 18-of32 
at a different speed 

defense wouldn't be prepared 
passes for r96 yards. including 
by the team in orange." 

for the option. They were. The
three touchdown passes. He 
Bob Davie 

Irish gained just I 2 I yards
also rushed for 55 yards 
and a touchdown. 
on 43 rushes.
Irish head coach 

page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 8, 1999 
report card 
8-
quarterbacks: Jackson was under 
pressure all game and had to throw 
before he wanted to. He was picked off once. but completed l 1-of-1R passes and rushed for 38 yards. 
C 
running backs: Jones was the leading 
rusher with 46 yards, but most of 
that came on a 29-yard gain. Overall, the rushing attack was inefficient. 
8-
receivers: Getherall played a solid game with six catches for 61 yards. lie also ran the fake field goal and 
scored on a re11erse. Brown was 
held without a reception. 
C 
offensive line: The Volunteer defensive line proved too talented and too fast. The injury to Jordan Black 
didn 'r, help either. The line kept the 
penalties down from a week ago. 
C 
defensive line: Tennessee was able to blow the Irish offthe ball, rushing 
for 232 yards. Irons had six tackles 
and a sack. 

8-
linebackers: Denman led t.he team with 13 tackles, but Boiman, Ferrar and 
Nicks combined for just six. 
defensive backs: Sanders, Cooper and 
8 
Jefferson combined for 22 tackles, 
but it ·s not a good sign when the 
secondary is making tackles. 
Freshman Beckstrom wa,"i beat twice 
for touchdowns. 

8 
special teams: Irish returns were the best of the season. The onside kick 
andfakefield goal worked to 
perfection. Miller missed another field goal, but the Irish blocked one. 
C 
coaching: The Irish brought out the bag oftricks. but it wasn't enough. Credit Tennessee's remarkable tcilent. rather 
than bash Davie's coaching. 
overall: The Volunteers ability to create the big play was the difference. Tennessee's
2.44 

defense was stiffling. 
adding up the nun1bers 
rushing touchdowns given up by 
2 
Tennessee's defense this season -both by Notre Dame 
5 
consecutive Nctre Dame road 
losses -the most since 1975. 
number of consecutive home 
21 
victories lor Tennessee 

Tennessee's graduation rate for football players
27% 
Notre Dame's graduation rate for football players 

80% 
-1 
rushing yards by punter Joey Hildbold 

24 
largest margin of defeat under Bob Davie 
IRISH INSIGHT 

KNOXVILLE, Tenn. That wasn't just football. That was Tennessee football. 
The Volunteers played at a whole different level in their 38-14 victory over the Irish 
Saturday, show­ing why they are an elite team in college football. 
"That football game was played at a dif­ferent speed by 


the team in 
Brian Kessler 

orange," head coach Bob Davie said. "They have a lot Sports Editor of weapons from top to bot­tom. I give them a lot of credit That's a good football team." 
A team Notre Dame just couldn't measure up with. 
The Irish circled this game on their calendars before the season started, knowing it would be a chance to prove their return to prominence. But instead, the Irish loft Rocky Top and tumbled down to the bottom of the mountain. The Irish got a taste of big time football -a concept that has been absent in South Bend since 1993. Now they're left to ponder the uphill battle they face to return the program to the ranks of Tennessee. 
"I think its talent and scheme," offensive coordinator Kevin Rogers said. "They do a great job coaching those guys. They have an incredible amount of talent." 
Let's start with coaching. 
Tennessee's Phillip Fulmer is the winningest active coach with a record of 74-12. Davie has one more loss than Fulmer and 53 fewer victories. 
Now for talent. 
The Vols' Cosey Coleman and Darwin Walker are Outland Trophy· candidates. Defensive backs Deon Grant and Dwayne Goodrich are semifinalists for the Thorpe Award. Linebacker Raynoch Thompson is a Butkus Award candidate. 
As for the Irish? A few preseason magazine awards top their lists. 
Davie even acknowledged that his team couldn't play at Tennessee's level. citing that Julius Jones was just one of a few players that could. · 
"Our players competed and played hard," Davie said. "I think No. 22 [Jones] for us is probably like those guys they're playing with. He's a guy that has some speed and gives us a shot in the arm." 
And as if Tennessee's talent wasn't enough, the hostile crowd in Neyland Stadium gave the Volunteers an almost unfair advantage. 
Leprechaun Mike· Brown called it "the loudest place I've ever been." 
The second largest crowd in school history (107,619) was as intimidating as it gets, helping the Vols to their 21st-straight home victory. 
"Darn right, I was concerned [with the noise]," Davie said. "That crowd was so loud, you couldn't even hear the snap count." 
Whether they were amplifying the noise with speakers or not, it made Notre Dame Stadium sound like the Basilica. Even with just three-quar­ters of the fans on hand for the player introductions, the ovations for Tee Martin and Jamal Lewis were deafen­ing. And while the Irish were unable to play more than 60 minutes of foot­ball, the Volunteer fans were able to bring the noise for over three hours. 

But the Irish battled and played their hearts out at least for ao min­utes. 
"I thought we competed our butts off." Rogers said. "I think we really played hard. Offensively, I don't think we ever gave up." 
The Irish did score the first two rushing touchdowns of the season against the mighty Volunteer defense. 
"I think this is the strongest we've played as a team," junior defensive end Grant Irons said. "We came out in the first half determined to execute our game plan and we did that." 
Their strongest effort. however, wasn't enough. The defending nation­al champions were too much for the Irish. 
"Tennessee played a great ball game," Jackson said. "They have out­standing players. I take nothing away from Tennessee and nothing away from us. They just outplayed us tonight." 
"Anytime a team gives up seven big plays, you're not going to play well," defensive coordinator Greg Mattison said. "I didn't think we played like we were going to play. You can't play a team,,Uke that and not be on all cylin­ders. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
Monday, November 8, 1999 The Observer . SPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTION page I 

There's No 
The University Libraries' Homepage (www.nd.edu/~ndlibs) is an excellent place to start when doing research. This site offers a predictable and spot to launch many types of electronic database searches. For example, ifyou want to know which books, journals or videos the Library owns, select the "ND Libraries Catalog" link from our homepage. This will connect you with our online catalog, which allows you to search the University Libraries' holdings. 
The Gateway is also available from the Libraries' Homepage by clicking on the "Electronic Resources" link. The Electronic Resources Gateway provides a place to sort out the confusion, providing a listing of the available elec­tronic journals and the electronic indexes to journal arti­cles. The Gateway allows you to view the wide variety of electronic databases arranged by title, type, subject, or cat­egory, and connect directly to them. 
The "Quick Links" box located on the lower left comer of our homepage is another helpful shortcut. This pull­down menu provides quick access to electronic library forms, other library catalogs, and Internet search engines. The "Virtual Reference Desk" link currently offers quick access to Web-based encyclopedias, handbooks, directo­ries and dictionaries, with expanded offerings planned. 
Remember the University Libraries' Homepage when you begin your next research project. To borrow the words of another famous midwestern institution, "there's no place like home!" --Linda Sharp 
The OnliR:e

St>arch 
Our new catalog is availabl~on-t e link from the Libraries' Homepage. The contains records for nearly all' University Libraries, includi;fi;s nals, newspapers, magazines, videos, d cal scores, sound recordings, i;¢pprt~, emment documents and mictofdrrti provides direct links to the fulltext ofouff~~ journal holdings and to selecthjgh~qualt resources. In the future, the catltfog'\\!i . . to check the status ofyour library accou ously search several other res~a:t:ch. lib 
. ; -~· :+fl=\":·,_ ,:.i.' _:· 

to access locally produceddtgit~cp need help with the catalog, please conta Library Reference Desk (631,.(,7,58)or. library. 
lndeK to browse. r. Title r Author r Subject r Series r LC Call No. 
Type word or phrase 
Search or 

UNIVI.RSITY LIBRARIES OF NOTRE DAME 

• 
Elsevier Science Direct Electronic Journal On trial until Nov. 30 

• 
Electronic Reserves Pilot Project, Fall 1999 

• 
News and Events 


•

.·:~~jt~'1~~~~@1::;~y\~:,~&rt~1~. 
Electronic Journals 
Have you discovered them yet? They're called e-journals and they are the result of the latest race to the Internet; journal publishers are scrambling make their paper­based publications available online. Another new arrival to the scene is the "electron­ic only" journal, which has no paper counter-part. Are these new journals free of prob­lems and glitches? No! Are they popular and useful? Immensely! E-journals eliminate many of the time-consuming stages of academic research, such as finding a call num­ber for a journal, physically traveling to the appropriate library and floor, retrieving the item, and photocopying the article. 
To get a quick look at some of thee-journals which are presently available to ND users, go to the Libraries' Hompage and click on "Electronic Resources". Selecting "Electronic Journals" from the resources list will provide a hot-linked alphabetical listing of e-joumals. Each link will allow you to view the full text of a particular jour­nal. You C!1n choose to read an article and print, email or download it, all from your workstation. 
The response to e-journals from students and faculty has been overwhelmingly pos­itive. The Libraries are working hard to acquire and provide access to as many e-jour­nals as possible. We have recently acquired Ideal, a package of I75 titles from Academic Press. This bundle allows us to connect to the full text of scholarly journals in a range of disciplines. For a complete listing of all the electronic journals, consult the Electronic Resources Gateway. --Carol Szambelan 
ND Libraries Catalo1t 
~8.#W~~~~:t:.toW ·:·..:.Jf:··:~··«p 
Eleetronk Resources 
ii/:1:,,&@· i Ul~-W>-@~-J& H ~ ·&.an'! 
Services & Collections 
:~M7!'~19@#f ·;3ufrn f:. Jilit . } i9i;6 $l¥ii 
AU ND Libraries 
~.~®·a,t:r~i.rn;,vr:c:····r · ~: 

Virtual Reference Desk 
: m!W:!'!i!tiliiliN' JN:;f $ii ia .:i. .ilM \ti_c>.. 
About the Libraries 
Ji •-. ii i1it W. 

Monday, November 8, 1999
page 2 The Observer . SPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTION 
~ The Wired Library ,v The Wired Library ,v The Wired Library
Back 

·-·•-..;-;,.:1,, •• , ..... -------------------------------------------------­
Overwhelmed by the Electronic Information Explosion? 
The Electronic Resources Gateway is your key to cutting through the cyber-confusion and locating the electronic resources you need. Whether you have an exact title to an electronic index or electronic journal, or a broad subject area in which you would like to explore the available electronic resources, let us be your guide. The Electronic Resources Gateway provides access to our electronic resources alpha­betically, by resource type, and by subject area. 
Once you have identified a possible resource, a click on the resource title links you to a synopsis of the resource. This intermediary Gateway page provides a description of the type and scope of the resource, the provider, and either a direct link to the resource or access information. If available, user guides are also linked here. 
We hope that you'll give the Electronic Resources Gateway a try, if you haven't already. It is a simple and effective way to begin research using electronic resources. The Electronic Resources Gateway is easily accessible via a direct link from the Libraries' Homepage. 
--Donna Stevenson 
U~t\itft~ll'Y Of.l
ND Home> Univel'iitv Libraries> Electronic Re:s:01Jp~es Gateway 
UniveTsity Libraries of Notre Dame 
Project Description Access for Remote Users Endnote TJser Guide 
Vittual Reference Desk Other Libraries Searching the Internet 
NOTRE DAME 

Electronic Resources Gateway 
Resow-ces Arranged Alphabetically 
A IBI CID/EI FIG IH /I IJI K /LI 1'/.I IN IO/PI Q/RISITIUIVIWIXIYIZ 
Resow-ces Arranged by Type Indexes to Articles Electronic Texts Reference Electronic Jownals Trial and New Resow-ces Arranged by Subject 

Did you ever wish you could gain immediate access to an article from your computer workstation, without the delays of looking up call numbers and scouring the library to find journal issues? While most indexes provide citations and abstracts only, a growing number now include the full text of arti­. cles. We would like to introduce youto sorne of our most pqpular fuH. tgxt datatla.ses. The~e. databases can be found in our 
.. JBverage1tb Acaa£#,,11f;Ysf!.ah 

group ofjoumals indexed. lnd~Jdng coverage dates:back to 1980, and 
full text is available for more recent year§, l.Jpdated daily 
LEXIS-NEXIS Academic Universe: A comprehensive source for newspaper articles, containing the full texts of thousands ofnewspa­pers, both from the United States and other countries. Updated daily, with coverage on some papers going back twenty years. LEXIS-NEXIS is a premier resource for full text legal information. Also includes busi­ness, medical and reference infonnation. 

the field ofeducation, including teaching guides, research reports, bib­liographies, issue papers, instructional materials, and test and e,valua~ tion instruments. Eighty percent ofthe ERIC documents dating back to 
1996 are available in full text electronic format. 
... ·.·  .  .  .·.  er 400  
regibJJflll:ntsin ·  ~~aRfflrjand•...wir~:·!ervices...Coverage··is  
•·•·· e$P¢¢:iili!Y $t  gion;i'..~ews, Wt~ both private and .pub""  

DoWJones lnleracUve; Full text coverage includes the Wall Street Journal, newswires, stock quotes, and SEC company information. The "Publications Library" contains 6,000 newswires, newspapers, maga­zines and trade journals. A good source of historical market data such as stock prices, dividends and exchange rates. 
General BusinessFile ASAP: Covers business and management topics. Includes directory listings for 150,000 companies and invest­ment analysts' reports on major companies and industries. Indexing dates back to 1980, with full text available for articles from recent 
years. 
--Marsha Stevenson 




Monday, November 8, l 999 The Observer . SPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTION page 3 
The Wired Library Al The Wired Library ,v The Wired Library 
Forward I
•· 

Research in Literature: 
Full Text Databases 
Liti.;rature students ... are you familiar with ARTFL and L/Olv? For those in the know,· these acronyms are packed with meaning. They represent two of the full text databas­es available to you through the University Libraries' Elec!ronic Resources Gateway. These databases offer you the full text of thousands of works written throughout the ages-from the Bible, to Elizabethan drama, to modern poetry and more! Most of these databases are fully search­able. 
ARTFL (American and French Research on the Treasury of'the French language): Provides some 1,800 French­language texts, including creative literature and works on religion, philosophy and history, such as all thirty-five vol­umes of Diderot and d'Alembert's Encyclopedie. 
LION (Literature Online): A massive database of over 
260,000 texts of English and American literature, includ­
ing prose, poetry and drama, ranging from the Middle 
Ages to the twentieth century. Texts include the complete 
works of Shakespeare and W.B. Yeats, as well as fifteen 
versions of the bible. LION also offers the full text of over 
thirty literary journals. 
Besides two collections of texts, ND Libraries provides access to more than sixty other full text databases covering many topics, in many languages. The available full text lit­erature is wide-ranging, and includes the work of authors such as Kant, Cervantes, T.S. Eliot, Jack Kerouac, and Virginia Woolf. 
A wonderful complement to our many full text litera­ture datahases, Uterature Resource Center is a fu!l text rcsoun.:e for literature interpretation, providing biographies and criticisms for thousands of authors. This database includes the full text of invaluable resources such as Contemporw:v Awhors and the Dictionm:v ofLiterary Bioxraphy. --Laura Fuderer 
Virtually Yours: Desktop Access 
Over 170 research databases are now available to ND faculty, students and staff! The majority are available via the Web, and can be accessed from anywhere, on campus or off. Instead of travelling to a physical library building and sift­ing through multi-volume printed indexes, these same resources can be accessed by pointing your browser to the Libraries' Homepage and selecting "Electronic Resources". 
Students and faculty living outside the South Bend area, and tho:-;c who use alternate Internet service providers such as IBM, can still have access lo these resources via a proxy server. Simple instructions for modi tying your web browser arc available in the Electronic Resources Gateway, under "Access For Remote Users." 
A smaller number of important databases continue to be available only on CD-ROM. Most of these resources are currently only available from on-campus computers with NT@ND configuration. Access to these databases will soon be cxpandc<l, thanks to a new network server that will allow remote access. Once the server setup is complete, both Macintosh and non-NT@ND computers will be able to use the networked databases. 
--Carole Kichter 
atabases 
The majority·ofour databases .are remotely accessible. Explore these data-, bases frotn«illi Electronic ReSl>urce.s Gatewa,v{viww'.~d~equ/~ndlibs/ere~. , 
$0W¢.lt~t 
.-.. ,. ,,,,: '•,, 
AB€1PblJ 
ABES; AQtl()ti,;~. . N,T@N.P, ·: ·: •' "." >
ABJ.G!dbal . . . , Academie, Searc!i ~uJITEX't Elite (E13SCO)}' , Access UN'* · · · African-Ameri~an Newspapers Online * . America:. lfistQl'Yi<t: !,,if¢. 
A.nthropol l./Ari 
A:..:aJ .. 
1 
A 
·.···•·j1API: Hispanic American Periodical Index Health Source Elite (EBSCO) * 
··Historical Abstracts " •,Historical Index to the New York Times ; .fji'~toty ofScience & Technology · ,;Hµrrumities Abstracts 
z; Iµtcrnational Periodicals Index NZ'~NQ ,.¢~ gf'Ch;risdan A11 . :Jx to J9th Century Arn Art Periodicals 
•>Jndex 
to House of Commons Parliamentary Papers . Nr@ND 

•
Index to Jewish Periodicals NT@ND Index to UN Documents N1'@ND 


JNSPEC 

· iJS"fOR: Fu11:rext Journal Project* ·Kants Gesam.melte Schriften (vols I-XIII)* N1,'@ND '. ,tis-N~xis Web (Academic UNIVerse) * 
. . * 
.. f tile Spanish CaribbearH.o 1900 * NX@Nl> ~·Resource ():~nter * terplots *tlJJflNf) 
~illScience Collection 
Art Abs .. ·· ., ··MathSciNet 
Art lnoE."i .·. . ... ' })Math Database (Ze11tralbJatt fur Mathematik) 
ARTFL Pro <MEDLlNE (FirstSearcb and EBSCO) ATLA Reli ···,;,Middle English Compendium "' 
Avery Arc · · · ' MLA International Bibliography 
BHA;BjM +< ,NTPB: National Trade Data J;3ank * ['fT@ND
Bihl·•· . ,,mrnc-. Bib . Y<. ~ 5;~~~~-~o~~~i~~B~~t~;nary *· NT®ND
:~.ri. 
Biol 
Book~e .·· . . / BooksinPririt r " " , Britannica Otiline(mciiucl;es Webster's C<:illegiattf · ·. 
Dictionary}•f · ·· ·.. . . . . . .. •.• Business Newsbank.FuU Text * BusjnessSouree Elite* CIAO:c Coluirtbj~.;rpi;lAffairs Online * · ·• 
CPLI: ·.. . turelndeX NT@iYD< f>sycINFO 
Cervali.~ C···.•..·.oiv.·ni.!..•. ·g~
.. •·.•.••·•·

C 
"" ., Coi1 .• .... .... * 
Contemporary \-\rofn~tfsJssues * 
Datastreah1 CNT@ND fr;om BIC only) 
Dictionary ofOklEiiglish * Dissertation Abstracts Dow Jones Interactive* Dun's MillioUDollarDisc Plus NT@NQ EconLit 
ELDB: 
E · Educa· Ei C.tnP¢ 
NT@ND ····•·.·•.•··.. . ... ERIC Education Resources ERIC Document Repi;oduction Service *. ESTC: EnglishShort Title Catalog Expanded Acadefoic Index Full Text * ExecuComp tJ~D FARS: Fip(¼nci;:d'. ~epountin,g Research Servic~ * 
N'l 

Ce~eral B. Cencra!'Sci~ 
GeoRef •· Global Developme1itFinance NTre,N/;! GPO Access GPO Monthly Catalog 
estament Abstracts fYI@Nl) System (tax codes &:regulations)* tID!N:!!J : Public Affairs Information Service 

•· ..atrolog.ia .Latina 

·PCI: Periodicals Contents Index · :Pennsylvania Gazette (historic) * 
Philosopher's Index * PoemFinder * . PoUudon Abstracts Project Muse Journal Project * 
RILM: International Music Abstracts edge Encyclopedia of Philosophy * NT®ND 
•Small Press Record Books In Print NJ'@ND .S{)Cial Sciences Abstracts ·••·· SocAbstracts SPORTDiscus 
Statistical UNIVerse TLG: Thesaurus Linguae Graecae * (Networked for 
Macintosh) 

Ulrich's Periodicals Directory UN Documents and Publications, 1966­l.Jflreal City: T.S. Eliot (Macintosh only)* NT@Nll 
•···· ..s;Q.6vernmentPeriodical Index NT@NIJ 
<lScience: Arts & Humanities Citation Index Science Citation Index Expanded Social Sciences Citation Index 
Wharton Research Database (Compustat) * Wife ofBath·s Prologue * NT®ND World Biographical Index WorldCat (OCLC) World News Connection* 

· Zack's Investment Research 
·.· ·m·@ND Database is currently available only on . . iianipus via NT@ND network connection. (The remaining databmes are all Web-intafaced and are ,wailable via the Electronic Resource 
.Gateway 

Guide to Literary Theory & Criticism, Johns Hopkins * Da1t1.base indude.l' Jitll text articles HLAS: Handbook of Latin Am Studies 
Do It Online 

•Renew 
an item •Request interlibrary loan 

•Recall 
an item • •Recommend an item for purchase 

•Request 
items on order or in process •Ask a librarian ... 

•Place 
items on Reserve •Submit suggestions 


http://www.nd.edu/~ndlibs/services/forms.html. 
..... 
... 
• 
page4 The Observer . SPECIAL ADVERTISING SECTION Monday, November 8, 1999 

Electronic Reserves Is Here 
Ever wish you didn't have to go to the Libraries' Reserve Room and wait in line to check out a class read­ing? Tired of paying for course packets? Ifyou are enrolled in one ofthe courses participating in the Libraries' Electronic Reserves Pilot Project, we now have an online solution for you. For these courses, assigned readings are easily accessible from anywhere via the Web. Simply point your browser to the Reserves Book Room ,
... 
(http://www.nd.edu/~reserves), navigate to the Electronic 
Reserves Course Page, select your course, and enter your 
AFS ID and password. From there, call up the specific 
reading and print it out. It's that easy! 
The Libraries plan to increase the number ofcourse 
• readings available in Electronic Reserves next semester. Instructors are encouraged to inquire about adding their course readings to our database. For more information about Electronic Reserves, or to view sample readings, visit the Electronic Reserves Course Page online or call the Hesburgh Library Reserves Room at 631-7578. 
--Tom Lehman and Mandy Haven 
Ask the Sharp Librarian 

Q. I need to find some journal articles for a paper I'm writing. I've checked the Library's catalog, but turned up nothing. I thought this was going to be easy! 
A. Okay, first things first. You will want to consult an index to find articles from jour­nals, rather than the Libraries' catalog (ALEPH). To access all of the electronic indexes we subscribe to, go to the Libraries' Homepage and select the "Electronic Resources" link. The Electronic Resources Gateway allows you to identify specific journal indexes by subject, category, or title. 
Once you've selected the appropriate indexes and performed some searches, you will hopefully have identified a group of promising articles. While some indexes include the full text of articles, most provide only a citation or abstract. With citations in hand, you are now ready to consult the Libraries' catalog. A title search for a journal will allow you to determine: l) whether ND owns the journal, and 2) whether we have the specific issue you need. 
If you have any problems or questions with your journal search, visit the Reference Desk at Hesburgh Library or one of the branch libraries. Our staff will gladly assist you. 
Q. These days everything there is so much information available on the Internet, and I can get to it all from the i;omfort ofmy own dorm room. I often wonder about the future ofthe physical library. lsn 't the Internet a "library without walls?" 
A. Hmmmm...where do I start? Let's begin with the quality of material provided by the University Libraries versus the Internet. Our librarians select, evaluate and refer researchers to materials based on a range of criteria, including accuracy, authoritative­ness, and relevancy to our academic programs. Web sources, while often giving an impression of legitimacy, are generally not peer-reviewed and require careful scrutiny. 
Efficiency and quality of access is another issue. Our Electronic Resources Gateway, for example, provides systematic access to high quality electronic indexes, texts, and journals selected by our librarians. A Web search engine such as AltaVista, on the other hand, has inadequate searching capabilities to keep up with the phenomenal growth rate of the Internet. So, even if there a gem buried in the Internet, you are not likely to find it. 
Thirdly, most of our electronic products will not be found on the Internet, beyond the Libraries' Web pages, because they are not free. The Libraries pay handsomely for value-added, comprehensive databases that vendors take much time and effort to com­pile. A vendor is not likely to provide these premium databases for free. 
Finally, and I realize this may be shocking, NOT EVERYTHING IS AVAILABLE ON THE INTERNET! A tremendous amount of current and historical material is avail­able only in paper or other non-digital formats. To rely exclusively on Web resources would cheat your research of many excellent library resources, not to mention the 
expertise of library staff. --Linda Sharp 
Ifyou have other questions for Library staff, please use our "Ask A Librarian" Web ref­erence form. Go to the Library Homepage (http://www.nd.edu/~ndlibs/) and select the "Virtual Reference Desk" link. 
ND Home > Libraries> Unh.rersi!y Libraries> Electronic Resources> EndNote Home 
FNJVfRill'Y 01· 

NOTRE DA?v1E .The Notre Daine 


·· EndNote Companion 
Wouldn't it be great ifyou could manipulate the mechanics of electronic databases to manage citations and generate bibliographies? The Libraries have recently identi­fied a software program, EndNote, which allows researchers to maintain a database of citations and automatically reformat them according to specific bibliographic styles. 
Students and researchers often compile numerous citations into bibliographies for class assignments, journal articles and other scholarly publications. Formerly, each citation was painstakingly typed into a work by hand, a tedious and error-prone process. Using EndNote, a researcher can create a bibliography from their individual­ized "library" ofcitations and select from a range of formatting options in one easy step. 
--Carol Szambelan 

http://www.nd.edu/~ndlibs/eresources/endnote 
Monday, November 8, 1999 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
-
Irish unable to catch up to Volunteers 
By TIM CASEY .Sports Wrircr 
KNOXVILLE. T,!lll1. 

II s1•1•111Pd likl' Nntrt• llanrn saw ii all in tlwir l'irst l\ight gc1 lll!'S nl' Llw SPHSOIL 
Tlw Irish l'a1•p(! tlw str1•ngth ol' Midiigan and Mi,·liigan St.iii·. Tlwy mat.rlwd up against litP pass-happy aUat'ks ol' l)n,w l\rp1•s at l'urdtH' and Oklaltoma·s Josh llnupnl. '.\/avy's 1111iqtw wis!JIJorw altad was c1 t'allsP 111' 1·or11·rn·11 for Bob l>avil' 11ml his staff. 
Then ,·am•· Saturday night 
against lP11Jll'Ss1•1•. 
Arni ils S))PPrl. 
"Th Py' n• so fast," !'resitman 
Julius forws said in llw lrish's :rn-14 loss In lili' Volun!l'Pl"S. "Wt• trit>d. hut thnn• wasn't nnwh ,...,,. 1·ould do. WP haw•n't l'an·d spPl'd lih tlwt. Tlwir Sjll'l'rl was rP111arkahlr1." 
l'asl opp111wnts had a niupil' ol' stqwrior alhll'l,~s Lhal. c11n­
•·Prnc•d till' Irish. Mirhigan Sta!f''s 
l'laxirn llur-r,•ss. USC's ll. .lay So\\11rd and :\ritona Stat,J._ .J.ll. itl'd1110nd all ,·onw t.o mind. 
But 1111 Saturday, TP11rwss1H• -..p1•1111•cl 10 hnvc~ t!w Pdgl' in ntlt­ll'licisn1 in almosl 1•vt~ry posi­lion. 
From rl'ig11i11g NCAA (,0-yanl indoor trad, diampion LPotrnrcl SroU and running bad; Travis lll'nrv 1111 11ffP11s1· to litwbackt•r 1:rit· ~Vt>sl111on•land and saf1,tv llt•1111 c;r,1nl on llw dn!'Pnsiv;, side• ol' !hP ball. tlw Vols lPam spPPd prowd tlw cliffPrc·1w1•. 
Strong safety Fred White (2) bears down on Irish quarterback Jarious Jackson in Saturday's 38-14 loss to Tennessee. Jackson
'"You ran 't not lw in a 1wrl'nct posilion or 1rnl play a (!pfc•nsn and the rest of the Irish had difficulty with the Volunteers' speedy defensive unit. White led the Volunteers with eight tackles. 
p<'rf'1•t·Lly and rnvPr !hmm kids," dd1•11sivP coordinator Greg captain could manage only :18 their feet,'' Hogers said. "When Martin and scampered 40 yards "I think you can see we had a Mattison said. yards on 13 carries. Ilis longest you're real athletic and you run downfidd for the touchdown. hard time covnring tlinm." 
Faring thl' nation's sixth run on the day was for nine really fast, it's hard to knock For the game, tailbacks Davie said. "I thought we rat,•d chifo11st• tlw Irish offense vards. them off their feet. They're as Henry and Jamal Lewis com­played the run pretty good until was 1wvPr in sync. · In order to combat the Vols good as any defense in the bined for 175 yards on 33 car­they startnd going downhill on 
Though thP passing game defensive speed, offensive coor­country," Hogers said. ries with Henry rushing for a us but we couldn't cover." wns Pffici1!nt with Jnrious 
dinator Kevin Rogers tried mul­·The Vols speed wasn't limiled season-high 132 yards. Before the game, Davie said .larkson rnmpleting 11-of'-I 8 
tiµle formations and schemes. to their defense. Martin completed 18 of 32 he couldn't disagree with thosn pass1\s !'or 127 yards and Joey 
llo implnmented a four wide Their offensive athleticism passes for 196 yards and three who said Tennessee was play­(;11thPrall turning in anothPr receiver set lo get one on one could be seen in the two scores touchdowns. His three touch­ing the best football of anysolid p1,rl'ormancn with six coverage with the defensive in the third quarter. down passes all went to players team in the country. After see­catd1t\S for <> l yards. thn run­backs while also giving the On third-and-14 midway {Scott, Donte Stallworth and ing their talent first hand,ning a!lack strugglnd against offnnsive lineman less time to through the third quarter, Eric Parker) who had never Davie stuck to his previous Lim 'f'ti111wsso1, defense. hold their blocks. Tennessee Tennessee quarterback Tee caught a touchdown before statement. 
Tlw Irish rushnd for 121 had never faced an option Martin dropped back and found Saturday's game. "I give them credit," Davie yards 011 4:{ carrins, a mere 2.8 
attack this year, so Rogers ran Scott racing past Jason Following the loss, Davie said, referring to Tennessee. yards pnr attempt. While some option plays. It proved Beckstrom on a fly pattern for a pointed to the secondary's "They have a lot of weapons on lackson usually has a few unsuccnssful. 43-yard touchdown reception. inability to match up with that football team from top to 
oplion kr!PpPrs oi· quarterback 
"All the option is based cut With 3: 12 left in the third, Tennessee's wide receivers as a bottom. That's an impressivedraws thal gain significant blocking, knocking them off Henry took a handoff from key to the Vols victory. team." yardagP, on Saturday the Irish 
-

AP Poll scoring summary & stats ESPN/USA Today Poll 
team record pointsteam record points scoring 1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total 
scoring 

1 Florida State (57) 9-0 1,472
summary

1 Florida State (66) 9·0 1,746 Notre Dame 0 7 7 D 14 
2 Virginia Tech (1) 8·0 1,3942 Virginia Tech (4) 8·0 1,656 3 14 14 7 38 
1si

Tennessee 
3 Tennessee (1) 7-1 1,3333 Tennessee M 1,599 
(ff -11:44 

4 Florida 8-1 1,282 ­
Walls 24-yard field

4 Florida 8-1 1,523 
team statistics ND UT 
goal, 3-0 5 Kansas State 9-0 1,2705 Kansas State 9-0 1,495 6 Nebraska 8•1 1,120
first downs 17 23
6 Penn Slate 9-1 1,328 7 Nebraska 8-1 1,296 rushes-yards 43-121 41-217 
7 Mississippi Stale 8-0 1,115
2nd 

8 Penn State 9-1 1,100
8 Mississippi Slate 8-0 1,288 passing-yards 170 196 
UT-11:52 

Slllllworlh 21-~d .9 WisC11nsin 8-2 1,012 pass lrom MIiier, 1D Texas 8-2 992 
9 Wtscon1in 8-2 1,206 comp-act-int 15-24·2 18-32-0 
to 
Texas 8·2 1,085 return yards 168 106 
Walls kick, 10·0 

11 Marshall 9·0 773
11 Alabama 7-2 1,006 
NIJ-3:25

punls-aueraqe 4-43.5 3-50.7 
12 BYU 8-1 766
Givens 4-yd nu1.

12 Marshall 9-0 947 
Jumbles-lost 2-0 0-0 
Miller kick, 10·7 13 Alabama 7-2 764
13 Georgia T11ch 6·2 853 
ur-:oa

penalties-yards 5-42 6-62 
14 Georgia Tech 6·2 73914 Georgia 6-2 825 
Parker 2·Vd pan 

15 Michigan 7-2 684
time ofpossession 
from Martin, Walls kick, 17-7 16 Georgia 6-2 656 
15 BYU 8-1 805 30:55 29:05 
16 Michigan 7-2 749 
individual statistics 
17 Michigan Stale 7-2 563t7 Michigan State 7-2 680 
3rd 

18 Mississippi H 432
18 Mississippi 7-2 508 passing 
UT-7:51 19 Miami (Fla.) 5-3 379
19 Miami {Fla.) 5.3 486 Nn -Jackson 11-18-1, Batlle 4-6-1 
Scall 43-yd pa•• 

20 southern Miss 6·3 253
20 Minnesota 6-3 357 UT-Martin 18-32-0 from Marlin, Walls kick, 24-7 21 Minnesota 8-3 15221 Southern Miss 6-3 310 rushin_q 
I.ff -3:03 22 Washington 6-3 145
22 Purdue 6·4 288 
Henry 40-yd run,

.VD-Jones 12-46, Jackson 13-38, Fisher 8·20, Getherall 2-15, 
23 TeicuA&M 8·3 141
23 Washh1gto11 6-3 213 
Walli kick, 31· 7 

Lopienski 2-3, Givens 1-3, Goodspeed 1-1, Hildbold 1·(·1), Baille 3­
.VD -:14 24 East Carolina 7-2 13824 East Carolina 7-2 99 
(·4) 
Getherall 11•yd 25 Boston College 6-2 137
25 Ohio Slate 6-4 89 
nm, MIiier kick, 31·14 

UT -Henry 16-132, Martin 6-46, Lewis 17-43 
other teams recefoing votes: Purdue 108,other leams receiving votes: Texas A&M 70, receil,ing 
4th Ohio State 65, Stanford 39, Oklahoma 34, ArkansasLouisiana Tech 60, Boston Collage S5, Oklahoma ND -Getherall 6-61, Hunter 3-27, Johnson 2-25, Goodspeed 2­UT-2:14 31, Colorado State 23, Syracuse 20, Virginia 18,
30, Virginia 20, Oregon 15, Stanford 11, Clemson 9, 21, Jones !-32, Fisher 1-4 
Marlin 14-yd run, Walls Louisiana Tech 14, 0tegon 14, Louisville 13,Oregon Slate 9, Syracuse 6, Arkansas 5, Western UT -Parker 5·22, Stallworth 3-43, Wilson 3-35, Lewis 2-22, 
kick, 2:14 

Western Michigan 13, Clemson 11, NOTRE DAME 3Mich 5, Utah 4, Fresno State a, NOTRE DAME 2 Graham 2-13, Scott 1-43, Veazey 1-14, Henry 1-4 
O
THE Notre Dame ar Tennessee BSERVER Monday, November 8, 1999 
-
ROCKY TOPPLED 
-
-


. KEVIN DALUM/The Observer 
Quarterback Jarious Jackson makes the lonely walk to the tunnel after Notre Dame's 38-14 loss to Tennessee. 
=w> 

H ... 
O
THE Monday, November 8, 1999 BSERVER page 15 


By BRIGITTE GREENBERG 
Associa1ed l'rcss Writer 
On entering medicine, young doctors still affirm the Hippocratic oath. But some believe the ancient Greek ethical code needs updating after a century of research advances that have blurred once-sharp lines of right and wrong. 
Could Hippocrates have imagined cloning or machines that maintain breathing and heart­beat in brain-dead patients? The oath deals with euthanasia and privacy, but what about fertility treatments that produce eight babies, transplants of animal organs into humans, genetic engineering? What about Dr. Jack Kevorkian"? 
"Much of' the challenge or our era is bringing our ethical compass up to date to match our technical expertise," said Dr. Linda Emanuel. director of the American Medical Association's Institute for Ethics. 
The debate begins even before conception. Fertilizing an egg in a test tube has become almost commonplace. Sperm taken after death and frozen can be used to produce a child years later. A woman old enough to be a grandmother can bear a child. Fertility treatments recently produced septuplets in Iowa and octuplets in Texas. 
"l think we as a society have made a value judgment in the reproductive area. We've made a clrnicc not to interfere. We just choose to allow it all to happen," said Arthur Caplan, director of the Center for Bioethics at the University of Pennsylvania. 
But Hichard McCormick, a professor of Christian ethics at the University of Notre Dame. warned that in such cases, science already may have gone too far. 
"In all matters touching life, the problem is that them have gut to be limits," he said. "We have responsibilities. The question is drawing the line at the proper place." 
Transplanting organs -heart, lungs, kidney -is now common, but the manner in which they are distributed has cmne under increased scrutiny, since some 4,000 people.die each year in thn United States while awaiting a trans­plant. 
Currnntly, organs arc oITcred first to patients near where they become available, but the fed­eral governmr.nt wants to distribute organs to tlw sickest pati1mts lirst, no matter whcrn they live. In response. some states have passed laws to keep donated organs within their borders, r<lgardless or urgent rnmd elsewhere. 
Anothnr solution, another !'Lhical problem: llcscarchcrs responding to the shortage use organs and cells t'rom pigs and other animals, uve11 hoarts from baboons. 
"It makos you squnamish but it beats being dmul." said Hnhcrt Lr.vine, chairman of the institutional rnview board al the Yale-NBw llavnn Medical CentM. "Progrnss in medicine is an optional goal. If" you don't want to pursue' it, you don't have to. We don't forcn it on people." 
Still, historians cite notorious exceptions, when the century's quest for medical answers was hellbent, unchecked by Hippocrates' ethical brakes. Nazi doctors conducted horrific tests in concentration camps, and researchers in Tuskegee, Ala., withheld syphilis treatment from 399 black men to see how the disease pro­gressed. 
Most research, of cuurse, aims to preserve life, and 20th century meg.icine's strides have done that dramatically -with life spans in the United States now al 76 years, an increase of" almost 30 years over the 1900 figure. 
Yet even this progress casts an ethical shad­ow. With the introduction of respirators, venti­lators, and other devices doctors have learned to sustain life at its most tenuous. 
In 1976, a young woman named Karen Ann Quinlan fell into a coma. After much soul­searching, her family went to court to seek and finally win the right to have her respirator removed. 
Their fight ignited the death-with-dignity movement. which in recent years has taken shape as the right-to-die movement, largely centered on Kevorkian, a retired Michigan pathologist who has said he assisted about 130 people in committing suicide. 
He is currently serving a 10-to 25-year prison sentence for second-degree murder and deliv­ery of a controlled substance in the injection death of a patient with Lou Gehrig's disease. 
"Kevorkian is actually forcing people to dis­cuss the issue, and I would say the trend line is toward greater acceptance," said Dr. Stanley Korenman, associate dean for ethics and med­ical sciences training at the University of California at Los Angeles School of Medicine. "I think that this is an evolving issue and it will evolve toward permissiveness.ff 
Some ethicists find the idea reprehensible and argue that medicine's advances offer palliative care to ease suffering in virtually every case. 
"What happens when we devalue whole sec­tions of society, old people, sick people? It's a slippery slope," said Dr. Edmund Pellegrino, director the Center for Clinical Bioethics at Georgetown University. 
Some ethicists worry that an ongoing govern­ment project to map the human genome, the common genetic blueprint, could give rise to other forms of discrimination, based on a per­son's genes. 
"It's one thing to insert a gene to prevent fatal illness. It's another thing to select genetir, makeups," Korenman said. 
Cloning research has raised even broader questions. Two years aso, Scottish researchers clonnd a sheep named Dolly. Last year, a physi­cist in Chicago said he would attempt to create the first human clone. 
Where docs medical research go from hem'? Ethicists say it will continue lo press the limits, prompting debates that will only get sharper. 
"Medicine has gone far. I think it has crossed into areas where we often foci we have no handrails to hold on to," Caplan said. "But to say it's gone too far is lo ignore the incredible benefits." 
AP ENTERTAINMENT BRIEFS 


Photo courtesy of Internet greetings com Paul McCartney denied recent rumors that he is romantically involved with model Heather Mills. 
Ex-Beatie aids legless model; denies affair 
LONDON 

Paul McCartney says he is helping a former model who lost a leg in a traffic accident to campaign for disabled war vic­tims, but the former Beatie denies reports he is dating 31­year-oid Heather Mills. 
McCartney, whose wife, Linda, died of cancer in April 1998, said Sunday he is helping Mills record a charity album for the Heather Mills Trust, founded for people who have lost limbs in war zones. 
"I will continue to work with Heather Mills on the recording project. and even though this story [of romance] is not true, I hope it will bring attention to her worthwhile efforts for the disabled worldwide," McCartney, 57, said in a statement. 
Mills, a former leading swimwear model in Britain, lost a leg below the knee when she was struck by a police motorcy­cle six years ago. 
In a TV interview in October, McCartney said he's open to the possibility of a new relationship but is not looking. 
"It might happen, I don't know, you know, I'm not really working at it. I just take things as they come," McCartney told Independent Television News. "I think Linda would want me to be happy." 
Don't call Prince 'the symbol' 
NEW YORK 

The artist formerly known as Prince doesn't like to be called that. 
The singer, probably best known for his '80s hits "Purple RainD and "Raspberry Beret/ tells Time magazine in its cur­rent editions that his name is simply the unpronounceable symbol that appears on his album covers. The latest, "Rave Un2 the Joy Fantastic," is being released by Arista. 
''I've made choices, and people can respect them or they can not respect them," says the singer, who changed his name from Prince to the symbol in 1993. 
When his wife, Mayte, wants to talk to him at home, she says, "I just stand in front of him and get his attention. But if you need to say what I call him, you can say I call him 'honey."' 
Eisner promotes H.S. graduation 
SAN FERNANDO, Calif. Walt Disney Co. Chairman Michael Eisner's latest deal is with an 11-ycar-old boy. 
Eisner personally delivered a contract Saturday to Victoriano Lopez Jr., a sixth-grader at San l<'ernando Middle School. Victoriano's part of the deal: a promise to work hard in school. 
Eisner's charitable foundation bas donated $1 million to Project GRAD, a national program to inspire students to grad­
.. 
uate from high school and go to college. 
The program requires participants, like Victoriano, to sign schoolwork contracts and offers scholarships of up to $6,000 for older students. 
"it offers a chance for all students to turn their dreams into reality," Eisner told about 900 Project GRAD volunteers. "All of us -educators, parents and the whole community -have the responsibility to provide them with the proper environ­ment and support to become learners." 
I
I 
! I 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, November 8, 1999
.. 
TRACK AND FIELD 

IMF director Niebolo dies at 76 
Associaced Press 
ROME 
Primo Nebiolo, who built track and field into a commercial empire and became one of the most powerful and controversial figures in international sports, died Sunday at 76. 
Nebiolo, who ruled the International Amateur Athletic Federation with an iron grip since 1981, died at the Mater Dei Clinic after a heart attack at his home in Rome. 
IAAF spokesman Giorgio Reineri said Nebiolo recently was ill with a cold and high fever, but denied persistent reports he had cancer. Headstrong to the end, Nebiolo refused a stretcher and insisted on walking to the ambulance that brought him to the clinic, Reineri said. 
During his 18 years as IAAF president, and seven years on the Intern11tional Olympic Committee, Nebiolo oversaw track and field's transition from amateur to professional and turned it into a multimillion-dol­lar business. 
He retained his unchallenged hold on power despite rumors of ill health and frequent com­plaints about his autocratic manner. In August, Nebiolo won another four-year term to lead the IAAF. Unsurprisingly, he ran unopposed. 
Nebiolo, intent on preserving his hold ·on power, never groomed a successor. 
The IA.AF said senior vice president Lamine Diack of Senegal would take over as act­ing president, but it's unclear how long he will serve. The next IAAF general assembly isn't scheduled until 2001. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
The lAAF Council meets Nov. 18-19 in Monte Carlo, Monaco, and will consider whether to call for a meeting sooner to elect a new leader. 
"Primo" means "first" in Italian, and Nebiolo did every­thing in his considerable power to put track and field -and himself -atop the sports world. 
He earned that standing in the 1980s and 1990s, along with IOC president .Juan Antonio Samaranch and Joao Havelange, the former head of soccer's governing body FIFA. 
Samaranch called Nebiolo ..one of the greatest leading sportsmen of this century, who knew how to elevate sport to the place it deserved in contempo­rary society." 
Despite the rivalry between the two men and their organiza­tions, Samaranch described Nebiolo as "a great collaborator and a loyal friend." 
The word "amateur" in IAAF became irrelevant during Nebiolo's tenure as the sport became highly professionalized. 
When Nebiolo took over the IAAF in 1981, its budget was $50,000 a year. Today, it's around $40 million, with rev­enues generated mainly from television and sponsorship deals. He introduced prize money, appearance fees, world­record bonuses and a host of world championship competi­tions in different events. 
"He was someone who in the world of sports left an indelible mark," Reineri said. "Years from now, when you look at the history of sports, Nebiolo will be remembered as a person with defects but also as a man who changed the world of sports." 
The short, gravely voiced Nebiolo, who spoke at least five 
NOTICES 
THE COPY SHOP laFortune Student Center PHONE 631-COPY 
www.CopyShopND.com Store Hours Mon-Thur: 7:30am•Midnighl Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm Sat: Noon-6:00pm Sun: Noon-Midnight 
WANT TO LEARN ABOUT THE LAW? ND Law School needs volunteers to be jurors in mock trials on Dec. 4 & 5. Staff, faculty and students are welcome. Please call Gloria Krull at 631-6860 to sign up. 
LOST & FOUND 
Lost: earring, silver and amathyst. sentimental value. Oct. 13 between DeBartolo, stadium parking lot, and Decio, 233-8672 
WANTED 
...ACT NOWICALL FOR THE 
BEST SPRING BREAK 
PRICES!SOUTH PADRE.CAN· CUN,JAMAICA,BAHAMAS,ACA· PULCO,FLORIDA & MARDI GRAS.REPS NEEDED ... TRAVEL FREE.EARN $$$.DISCOUNTS FOR 6+. 800-638-8203 WWW.LEISURETOURS.COM 

loving ND-SMC couple wishes to adopt.Will provide a lifetime of laughter,love,devotion and opportu­nities. 800-484·4699 code 0019 
To our 4am inquirer: all info kept in total confidence. Please call back anytime.Our prayers are with you. 
Free One Bedroom Apartment near Campus 
A family with three children seeks fun ,energetic student or graduate to live in charming apartment for FREE in exchange for mutually agreeable babysitting responsibili­ties. Fax name.phone# and brief note describing experience and interests to Walker at 233-2308. 
ND Students: Need a new car? Convince us (in 500 words or less) that you're the one who deserves it, And we'll send you a brand new 
Volkswagon Beetle! Check us out at WinningLetter.com 
gmbid.com is a pre !PO start-up luxury auction web site, pioneered by Georges Marciano, the rounder of Guess? Jeans. We are looking for a part time campus representa­tive to join us in arranging local pro­motions, PA, giveaways, e-mail campaigns, sponsorships, etc. Must be interested in marketing, a self­starter, fun, and a team player. Please email resumes to: reps@gmbid.com 
Wheelchair-bound woman seeks long-term wkend help for housewrk, errands, yardwrk. Avg Hrs 4-8 / wkend@ $7/hr. Oay & time nego­tiable. Call Linda @ 219-273-7045 or 616-663-2573 
languages, leaves a large lega­cy. 
Other innovations during his time at the IAAF include stronger drug-testing measures and penalties for offenders. holding the world champi­onships every two years instead of four, moving the lAAF head­quarters from London to the tax haven of Monaco and establish­ing the Golden League circuit of European meets. 
Nebiolo's proudest moment mav have come in June, when his ·native city of Turin was cho­sen to stage the 2006 Winter Olympics. The triumph erased some of the sting of a failed attempt to give Rome the 2004 Summer Olympics. 
Like his sport, which has been tarnished in recent years by drug scandals, Nebiolo's career was not without setbacks. 
At the 1987 World Championships in Rome, Italy's Giovanni Evangelisti won the bronze medal thanks to a falsi­fied measurement, and the medal was later taken away after investigations showed Italian officials rigged t.he result. Nebiolo was president of the Italian national federation at the time, and although never direct­ly implicated, he quit that post in 1989. 
Nebiolo waged a protracted legal battle with Butch Reynolds, the former 400-meter world record-holder. 
In 1990, the IAAF suspended Reynolds for a positive drug test. Reynolds, who· claimed the test was flawed, sued and won a $27.3 million judgment against the IAAF in a U.S. court. But the IAAF refused to pay and eventu-. ally won a verdict that the U.S. courts had no jurisdiction in the case. 
SENIOR PGA TOUR 

McCord beats Nelson with epic coilleback 
Associated Press 
MYRTLE BEACH, S.C. 
Larry Nelson doesn't usually listen to Gary McCord, espe­cially when the irreverent ana­lyst knocks his own golf game. 
"He's a very colorful charac­ter," said Nelson, who finished a stroke behind as McCord won the Senior Tour Championship on Sunday. "But he's also very serious about his game. You can't shoot the scores he shoots without being serious." 
McCord, who has found fame in the TV booth for CBS, in the movies in "Tin Cup," and on the best-seller list with "Golf for Dummies," found it where he loves it most, as a champion goiter. 
"I have been blessed with a lot of success," said McCord, who never won in 25 seasons on the PGA Tour. "Aud for a guy that never had any suc­cess, you know, it gets to be overpowering." 
Especially after the first two rounds, when McCord joked and hacked his way around The Dunes Golf & Beach Club, the place he and Nelson earned their tour cards in 1974. 
The wonderful comeback began Saturday with a 64, the tournament's low round, and continued with his 67 Sunday, He finished 12-under 276,·a shot ahead of Nelson and Bruce Fleisher, the tour's top money winner with more than $2.5 million this season. 
Fleisher, who has won seven times this year, looked ready to assume control as he took the lead with a birdie on the 13th hole. But he lost the lead by missing two short par putts -the kind he had easily canned all season -on the 16th and 17th holes. 

Suddenly, all McCord had to do was roll in a tricky 3 1/2­foot par putt on the 18th hole for the second -and biggest -victory of his career. 
"Great story," said Fleisher, not a bad one himself in his rookie season. "I mean. (McCord) has played half the tournaments I have this sea­son. Kind of glad of that." 
McCord showed that person­ality can play on the Senior PGA Tour, playing his final 36 holes in 13-under par. He earned $347,000 and finished the year with $993,291, about $300,000 more than he made in 25 seasons on the PGA Tour, 
"This whole week has been such a Dow Jones ride," he said. "On Thursday and Friday, I didn't know what to expect. Then that last 36, I don't know if I could have played much better." 
Nelson fired a 65 after start­ing six shots behind the lead­ers. Bruce Summerhays, who shared the third-round lead with Fleisher, was next at 8­under after a 7 4, while 60­year-old George Archer and Dana Quigley tied for fifth at 7 ­under. 
McCord thought Saturday he would never get to 13-under, the number he thought it would take to catch Fleisher. so he calmly worked through his round. 
FOR RENT 
ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE 
HOME FOR ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 
243-0658. 
WALK TO SCHOOL http://mmmrentals.homepage.com 232-2595or mmm.rentals@aol.com 
4-6 student rental houses. Lots of extras. Huge Party Room. Washer/Dryer. etc. Dave 291-2209. 
FOR SALE 
Spring Break Specials'Bahamas Party Cruise 5 Days $2791 Includes Meals! Awesome Beaches,Nightlife!Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights From $399! Florida $129!springbreaktravel.com 1·800-678-6366 
FOR SALE 
N.D. FOOTBALL TIX CALL 271-9412 
FOR SALE 
N.O. FOOTBALL TIX CALL 271-9412 
Phone Cards 669min. $20 243-9361 or 258-4805 
Beautiful brass bed, queen size, with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame. New. never used, still in plastic. $235 219-862-2082 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3·p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
TICKETS 
WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT­BALL TICKETS 271-1526 
SELL & BUY GA FOOTBALL TICK· ETS 277-6619 
FOR SALE BC & EL TON JOHN tix. Best Prices AM -232-2378 PM -288-2726 
NO Football tix BOUGHT & SOLD AM -232-2378 PM • 288-2726 
FOR SALE 
N.O. FOOTBALL TICKETS CALL 271-9412 
WANTED: 4 Tenn. Tix 312-951-5008 
EL TON JOHN TICKETS 272-7233 GOOD SEATS ...... 
I need one BC ticket Call Holden 634-4788 
FOR SALE: 
2 BC tix. 
1-800-54 7-9094 Jason D. 
I NEED BC TIX! GA OR REGULAR! 634-2595 
NEED 2 ND-Pitt tickets Call John 634-2795 
PERSONAL 
FAX IT FAST!!! 
Sending & Receiving 
at 
THE COPY SHOP Lafortune Student Center Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 
FAX IT FAST!!! 

Spring Break 2000 Free Trips & Meals. Jamaica,Cancun,Bahamas,Barbad os,Florida,Padre.Book now for Free Meals & 2 Free Trips.Book before Dec. 17 for LOWER PRICES!! 1800-426·7710 www .sunsplashtours.com 
Funky GOURDS 
Three for a dollar!! Fun imaginative shapes ....... 

STUDENT WORK Vector Marketing Corp. is now filling p/t cust. sales & service positions. Flex. around class. Transfers avail. over breaks. $10.55 base-appt. Good resume exp. scholarships awarded, cond. apply. call mon-wed 12:30-5;30pm 
282-2357 
Shouts outs to Jen. 
Booyal 

So, Copes, what are you doing on that porch there? Stop it. 
No, really. Stop it. 
Shout outs: Siegfried 4B, Jim Harris, Group C, Goldie. 
Well, I'm well on my way to jinxing another sports team I roof lor. 
Talk about writer's block ... 
Connolly, pages 24,25 and 28 are all yours... 

Here's our forecast tomorrow: cold. 
Extended forecast: colder. 

Nothing's more exciting than a tele• conference. 
And this week's pick for best film at Cannes: a movie about mimes. 
That may not sound good to you, but did I mention they're EVIL mimes? Yeah. I thought you'd be interested.. 
You better thank me for the extra publicity, John. 
As for the OTHER John, will you ever learn that Blitz and bets don't mix? 
Once again, I'll give a nod to the best production person in the busi• ness. 
There's a dearth of Germans! 
Only $12 an hour?!?! 
For sale: lee Majors (six-million dollar man) -$50 or best offer. 

Our sofa seats the whole mob, and it's made of Italian leather! 
That's the sports and t...am ... outta here. 

Monday, November 8, 1999 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, November 8, 1999 

NCAA FOOTBALL 

Brees: Give Dayne 
Gophers exult in Nittany upset 
Heisman Trophy 
Associated Press 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. Even Drew Brees was 
impressed. 
Ron Dayne's 222 yards Saturday against Purdue put him on the verge of major col­lege football's career rushing record and convinced the Boilermakers' quarterback that the Wisconsin senior should get the Heisman Trophy. 
"He's great," Brees said. "He's kind of been their team for the last four years. He's going Lo break the NCAA record next week and had a great day today. I think he deserves the Heisman." 
Dayne became only the third Division I player to top 6,000 career yards, passing Tony Dorsett for second place and moving within 99 yards of breaking the 1998 Heisman winner Ricky Williams' year­old record of 6,279. 
"He's a great running back," Purdue coach Joe Tiller said. "I was impressed with Dayne, because like he did against us last year, he turned it up in the fourth quarter. He did ·every­thing he needed to do. The guy's a heck of a football pla~­er and I admire his competi­tiveness, because when the game gets tight, he takes it to another level." 
Coupled with Penn State's loss to Minnesota, Wisconsin (8-2, 6-1 Big Ten) has a half­game lead over the Nittany Lions and can clinch at least a share of the conference title with a victory over last-place Iowa (1-8, 0-6) on Saturday. 
Brees, only a junior, passed Jim Everett for second place in Purdue career passing. He threw for 350 yards and one touchdown and ran for a career-high 85 yards and two touchdowns, but he was inter­cepted twice by Jamar Fletcher. One was returned 34 yards for the clinching touch­down in the final minutes. Earlier, Nick Davis returned a kickoff 91 yards for a touch­down, and Dayne broke a 14­14 tie with a 41-yard TD run. 

"They're an excellent zone coverage team," Tiller said of Wisconsin's defense against the pass. "There wasn't much adjustment on their part to defend us. Some teams. when they play us, their defense changes dramatically. To Wisconsin's credit, they're very good in the secondary. We got jammed, got held at the line of scrimmage and couldn't get off them." 
The Badgers' first touch­down, a 3-yard pass from Brooks Bollinger to Dague Retzlaff, was set up by Fletcher's first interception late in the first quarter. 
"This was a good win," Badgers coach Barry Alvarez said. "We have a chance to defend a championship. and we determine it. We don't have to depend on someone else beating another team. If we win, we've got at least a piece of the championship and that was one of our goals this vear." 
• Dayne's touchdown was _a Big Ten-record 69th of his career. 
"Great blocking was done for me. Once I scored, everybody was into the game and we never lost focus," Dayne said. "We just kept playing hard." 
With 32 carries, Dayne also set an NCAA record career with 1,088 rushing attempts, breaking Dorsett's record of 1,074. 
TNE' :REAS.ON·.s
' • , • • I • .,, 
TO -1?.~ltfY ~tl-l."· 
-


Associated Press 
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. 
They might have seen it com­ing, both Minnesota and Penn State. 
But like this? No way. 
The No. 6 Nittany Lions had cut too many games too close, and the Big Ten is too tough a conference to keep doing that week after week. Minnesota, meanwhile, had barely lost against Wisconsin, Ohfo State 
• and Purdue, and touted the No. 1 defense in the Big Ten. So the Gophers' 24-23 upset Saturday -ending Penn State's national championship ride and validating Minnesota's turnaround under Glen Mason -wasn't a total shock. The stunner was the miracle, fourth-and-16 ricochet that won the game. "I don't understand how it happened," said Penn State's Askari Adams. "Everything happened so quickly. Before we knew it, Minnesota was kicking a field goal to win the game." Billy Cockerham's despera­tion pass bounded off receiver Ron Johnson's hands, hung in the air and landed in the hands of diving teammate Arland Bruce at the 13-yard line. Three plays later, Dan Nystrom lined up and kicked a 32-yard field goal. "Typically, losing programs don't win at the wire like this," Mason said. "Only winning pro­grams pull these out." . 
Welcome to the winner's cir­cle, coach: The Gophers will have their first above-.500 sea­son since 1990 and should be bowl-bound for the first time in 
13. They leapt to No. 20 in the 
AP poll. Mason's team nearly did it 
'Typically. losing programs don't win at the wire like this. Only winning programs pull these out." 
Glen Mason Minnesota head coach 
two years ago, leading Penn 
State 15-3 in the fourth quar­
ter before blowing it. 
"It's amazing how emotions 
swing in athletics. Two years 
ago, when we lost by one point 
against a No. 1 Penn S~at~ 
team, it was the lowest pomt, 
he said. "Now here we are, we 
did the same things today, but 
we won. This is the biggest win 
ofmy career." 
The Gophers (6-3, 3-3 Big 
Ten) defeated a Top-25 oppo­
nent for the first time since 
1996 and a top-five team for 
the first time in 13 years. 
"It's funny, it's not really a 
surprise," said Thomas 
Hamner, who had 96 yards on 
38 carries, plus 58 yards on 
three catches. "We beat Penn 
State, and we turned into a 
winning program. We started a 
winning tradition." 
Penn State (9-1, 5-1). its 
national title hopes shot, sets 
its sights set lower: the Rose 
Bowl in Pasadena. 
"Good things can still hap­
pen," Eric Cole said. "We just 
have to see what we're made 
of. But we can still win a Big 
Ten title." 
The Lions had better look 
out: No. 16 Michigan and No. 
17 Michigan State await. 
Even before this loss, they .hadn't exactly been dominating 
teams: They needed a last­
ditch TD bomb to beat Miami 
and a goal line stand to defeat 
Purdue. The only consistency on offense were the big plays needed to save the day. 
"We've been lucky a few times this season," Mike Cerimele said. "Our offense needs to go out and put some points on the board. We can't be letting our defense decide our fate every week." 
Minnesota's defense showed why it surrenders the fewest yards in the conference, 285 per game -eighth nationally. They. shut down Rashard Casey's scrambling and hit Kevin Thompson time and again. They held the Lions to 360 yards, 81 yards below average. 
Cockerham shined, throwing for two TDs and running for another. Twice, he found receivers behind the Penn State coverage for big gains. First, his 49-yarder to Alex Hass set up his own 3-yard TD run. Then, he hit Hamner for a 49-yard TD. He finished 14-of­24 for 277 yards, and rushed for 44 more. 
He saved his biggest plays for the game-winning drive with 
1:50 left. 
"All we wanted was one more chance," Cockerham said. 
He got it, and made it count. 
First, he found Johnson on a 46-yarder to the Penn State 34­yard line. Then, surviving the Penn State blitz, he got off the throw on fourth-and-16. 
"When Bruce caught that ball, my heart dropped to my feet," Hamner said. 
Penn State's Derek Fox sprinted off the field celebrat­ing, incorrectly waving it incomplete. Joe Paterno thought the game was over until he heard someone shout­ing "He caught it! He caught it!" on the sidelines. 

Do:ntlno 's Pizza 
Delivery to ND/SMC/HC 
271-0300 

® 

Early Week Special! 
Every Monday, Tuesday, and Wedl)esday 
The Weekend isn't too far away... 
Visa/Mastercard/Discover and Checks Welcome! 
,
r 

2 Large Pizzas w/Cheese 
I I
$8.99

I I
$1 Per Topping 

I I
Add Breadsticks for $1
I I 
Good every Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday 
L-.J 
Monday, November 8, I 999 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NEW YORK CITY MARATHON 
Chebet outduels Castro to sweep NY, Boston marathons 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Joseph Chebet made a vow before the New York City Marathon. 
"If I lose this time, I will never go back to N(lW York," the Kenyan told his coach. 
ChebHt can come back. 
Ending the frustration of two straight second-place finishes, Chebnt mmd a powerful linish­iug kick Sunday to out<luel Portugal's Domingos Castro and win in 2 hours. 9 minutc~s. 14 seconds on a cool, windy day. 
ChebPt is the first marathoner to win in lloslon and New York in tlrn same vcnr since Alberto Salazar in 19.82. The only other runn,~r to swtiHp those races in the same ypar was Bill Rodgers in 1IJ78 and 1979. 
"01rn day I was supposed tu win New York," said Chebet, who also was second in Boston in 1998 before winning last April. 
Adriana Fernandez. who also finished second last year, won the women's division by nearly 2 1/2 minules and became the first Mexican woman to win an international marathon. She was timed in 2:25:06, the sec­ond-fastest in the race's history and only 26 seconds behind the record 2:24:40 by Australia's Lisa Ondicki in 1992. 
"I was feeling very strong and decided to take off," Fernandez said about breaking away from defon<ling champion Franca Fiacconi of Italy near mile 15. "It \.Vas very windy -some places almost stopped me. Probably without the wind, I could have broken the course record." 
Clrnbet had to contend with 
SAVE A LIFE 
On November 10, 1999 from 6:30a.m. to 4:30p.m. at St. Joseph's Regional Medical Center 
(Hospital Attrium) 
-Give one small vile of blood to be on the 
National Bone Marrow Registry -No Fee Involved -For more information, call 283-0636 
Sponsored by the Junior League of South Bend and St. Joseph's Regional Medical Center Bring 2 references (name, address, phone number) 
the formidable Castro before 
taking charge with his late kick. 
"He tried to push me hard, 
and I tried to push him very 
hard," Chebct said. "He made 
four or five surges and I cov­
ered them. I made some surges 
and he covered them. Then, I 
made one final move and pulled 
away." 
Castro, the fourth-place fin­
isher in the 5,000 meters at the 
1988 Olympics after dogging 
gold medalist John Ngugi of 
Kenya most of the way, was 
timed in 2:09:20. His twin 
brother, Dionisio, finished 33rd. 
"Chebet is a strong athlete all 
the time," Domingos Castro . said. "When he pushed, I was a little tired in my legs. In the last mile, I thought I could beat Chebet. I pushed. pushed, 
pushed." 
Chebet and Castro ran side­
by-side for about a mile until 
Chebet pulled away with about 
1 3-4 miles to go. Between 
miles 24 and 25, he put in the 
fastest mile of the race, 4:43. 
In winning, Chcbet thwarted 
John Kagwe's bid to become 
only the third man to win New 
York three straight years. The 
only two were Salazar. from 
1980-82, and Rodgers, from 
1976-79. 
After last year's heartbreak­
ing loss, when he was beaten 
by three seconds, Chebet said 
he would change his tactics. 
"It's hard to take second­
place finishes so often," he 
said. 
His strategy worked perfectly 
in a field estimated at 30,000 
that ran on a brisk, 46-degree day. 
vVhen ·Chebet entered Central Park, his coach, Gabriele Rosa, jumped from his chair in the press room and paced back and forth until the finish. When his protege crossed the finish line, Rosa looked at the television screen and raised his arms in exultation. 
"The race went as planned," he said. "He moved when I wanted him to. 
"He is one of the top three marathoners in the world, in my opinion." 
For the first half of the race, the quartet of 1994-95 champi­on German Silva of Mexico, Robert Stefko of Slovakia, Leonid Shvetsov of Russia and Joao Ntyamba of Colombia did their job as pacesetters. 
They ran consistently, reeling off miles of just under 5 min­utes, while protecting the ~lite runners from the 20-30 mph headwinds. 
Then, after the 13.1-mile point. all the pacers dropped out except for Silva, who con­tinued on until between miles 17 and 18. He then put on a big spurt, before jumping onto the camera truck. 
The mile between 13 and 14 was the slowest, 5:05, and the pace remained slow for the next two miles before the lead­ers began attacking. 
Finally, with just more than two miles left, it came down to a battle between Castro and Chebet, with Kagwe dropping back and finishing fifth in 
2:09:39. Kenya's Shem Kororia, a training partner of Chebet's, finished third in 2:09:32, and Italy's Giacomo Leone, the 1996 winner, was fourth in 2:09:36. Kenya's Elijah Lagat was the sixth runner under 2:10:00 at 2:09:59. 

Kenyan men took five of the first 10 places, with the other being Simon Biwott, who fin­ished eighth. 
The always upbeat Kagwe said losing can sometimes help runners. 
"Some days you don't go the way you want." he said. "When you lose, you come back stronger. 
"I couldn't stay with Chebet. I lost my energy. I had the will. My body couldn't comply." 
Kagwe said he was tripped five times during the race and kicked in his right leg several times. 
Kenya's Catherine Ndereba was a distant second among the women at 2:27:34, followed by Germany's Katrin Dorre­Heinig, winner of 23 marathons in 43 races, at 2:28:41. Fiacconi, who has been nursing a broken arm, wound up fourth at 2:29:49. 
Chebet received $50,000 for winning plus a car and $20,000 bonus for going under 2:10:00. Fernandez also earned $50,000 plus a car and $25,000 for run­ning under 2:26:00. 
The city's Emergency Medical Services said 55 people were treated for injuries -all of them minor -during the marathon. One woman who never started the race was hos­pitalized for an unidentified condition. 



=-==-:====--­

SM 



-
-

MORGAN STANLEYDEAN WITTER 
Estamos procurando candidatos qualificados para trabalhar como 
Investment Banking Financial Analyst 
em nosso escrit6rio em Sao Paulo. Em case de interesse, favor enviar curriculum e carta de apresentavao para: 
Levindo Santos Morgan Stanley Dean Witter 1585 Broadway New York, NY 10036 email: santosl@ms.com 
Os candidatos devem ter fortes credenciais academicas e fluencia em Portugues 
Os curriculos serao aceitos ate 25 de novembro As entrevistas serao realizadas em dezembro e janeiro 
Esta solicita9ao esomente para o escrit6rio de Sao Paulo 
www.msdw.com Morgan Stanley Dean Witter is an Equal Opportunity Employer 
... 
-
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, November 8, 1999 
NFL 

Blocked field goal proves decisive as Bears top Packers 
Associated Press 
GREEN BAY, Wis. 
The Chicago Bears were cer­tain Walter Payton was watch­ing, and they were certain he was proud. 
Bryan Robinson blocked Ryan Longwell's 28-yard field-goal attempt as time expired, and the Bears snapped a 10-game losing streak against the archrival Green Bay Packers with a 14-13 victory at Lambeau Field on Sunday. 
"J think Walter Payton picked me up, because I can't jump that high," said Robinson, who swat­ted away Longwell's kick and gave the Bears their first win at Lambeau since 1992. "I just got my hand on that leather, and it felt so good. It's for you, Walter." 
The Bears were playing their first game since Payton, the league's leading career rusher and the soul of Chicago football for 13 seasons, died Monday. Wearing blue-and-orange foot­ball-shaped patches inscribed with Payton's No. 34 on their left shoulders, the Bears (4-5) snapped a three-game losing streak, celebrating wildly on the field afterward. 
Favre, who threw last-minute touchdown passes to win each of the Packers' first three home games this season, directed a 14-play drive that put the ball on the Chicago 10 with seven sec­onds left. 
Ravens 41, Browns 9 
Cleveland fans waited four years for a chance at revenge over Art Modell, the owner who took their beloved Browns to Baltimore in 1995. They also wanted a piece of Ravens coach Brian Billick. who earlier this week said the NFL hoped the Browns would win and that the game officials might be inf1u­enced by Cleveland's rabid home crowd. 

But the Ravens (3-5) didn't need help from anyone, snap­ping a three-game losing streak by dominating the expansion Browns (l-8), who managed just 10 first downs -five during garbage time in the fourth quar­ter -and entered the fourth quarter with just 66 total yards. 
The 41 points were the most points ever scored by a Ravens team and the fewest they've ever allowed. 
Buccaneers 31, Saints 16 
Tampa Bay quarterback Trent Dilfer, benched last week for Eric Zeier, rnturned Sunday to throw three touchdown passes as the Buccaneers beat the Saints. 
Dilfer, back in the starling spot because of Zeier's injured ribs, made the most of it, throwing a 62-yard touchdown pass to Jacquez Green, the Bucs' first touchdown in eight quarters. 
Seahawks 37, Bengals 20 
Jon Kitna passed for three touchdowns in the first half and Ricky Watters scored his first touchdowns of the season as the surging Seahawks beat the struggling Bengals. It was the second win in six days for the Seahawks, who were coming off a Monday night win over Green Bay, The team could get more good news on Monday, when top receiver Joey Galloway is expected to end his season-long holdout. 
Steelers 27, 49ers 6 
Kordell Stewart, shaking free of his own early season prob­lems, led five scoring drives as the Steelers beat the 49ers, San Francisco's fourth consecutive loss and second straight at home. 
Stewart, whose 60.6 passer rating entering the game ranked in the bottom third in the AFC, completed 15 of 26 passes for 139 yards, cutting through a San Francisco defense that has given up the second-most points and the most yards passing in the league. 
Jerome Bettis ran for touch­downs of 1 and 22 yards and Hines Ward caught a 13-yard scoring pass from Stewart, help­ing the Steelers (5-3) overcome rain and a sloppy field to win for the fourth time in five road games this season. 
Broncos 33, Chargers 17 
Rookie running back Olandis Gary. who took over after Terrell Davis was lost for the season, scored twice and rushed for 108 yards, the first time in 27 games that San Diego allowed a 100-yard runner. 
The last back to do it was Davis, who rushed for 178 yards in a 38-28 Broncos win here on Nov. 30, 1997. 
Jason Elam kicked four field goals for the Broncos (3-6), who were down to third-string quar­terback Chris Miller, seeing his first action in nearly four years. The Chargers (4-4) have fol­lowed a three-game winning streak with a three-game losing streak in which thev've been outscored 98-20. · 
Lions 31, Rams 27 
In a wil.d shootout, backup quarterback Gus Frcrotte tossed a 12-yard touchdown pass to Johnnie Morton with 28 seconds remaining as the Lions beat St. Louis for their fourth straight victory. 
On the winning drive, the Lions wimt 77 yards in 10 plays, the biggest of which was a 57­yard toss to Germane Crowell in front of Rams corncrback Dexter McCleon on fourth-and-28 at the Lions 21. 
Bills 34, Redskins 17 
The Buffalo Bills had five scor­ing drives in their first six pos­sessions, and Flutic scrambled for a first down on four of them in their victory over the Washington Redskins. 
Phillips spent the week fend­ing off calls for Flutie to be benched in favor of Rob Johnson. Flutie answered the critics by rushing for 40 yards and completing 16 of 22 passes for 211 yards and two touch­downs. 
Antowain Smith ran for two TDs as the Bills (6-3), who had been living off their defense most of the season, held the ball for 41 minutes and had their highest scoring output of the season. 

Panthers 33, Eagles 7 
After forcing just five turnovers all season, the Panthers matched that total Sunday against Philadelphia and converted the Eagles' miscues into 20 points on the way to vic­tory. 
Only a 14-yard touchdown run by Duce Staley with 2:37 remaining allowed the Eagles to avoid a shutout. It would have marked the second time in two seasons that Philadelphia had been shut out at least twice. 
Carolina (3-5) was bidding for its first shutout in more than two years but had to settle for a turnover-free performance and its first victory in three games. 
Jets 12, Cardinals 7 
The Jets, who blew four games in which they led in the final period this season, turned around their game with the Arizona Cardinals on Keyshawn Johnson's 43-yard TD reception. 
Johnson awakened from a game-long slumber as New York (2-6), winning for the first time in five home appearances, was helped by Arizona's sputtering attack. The Jets sacked Dave Brown six times. 
Jaguars 30, Falcons 7 
Mark Brunell passed for three touchdowns, Fred Taylor ran for 124 yards and the top-rated Jaguars defense set a team record with nine sacks. 

Monday, November 8, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
PGA 
Woods overcomes Jimenez for fourth straight victory 
Associa1cd l'rcss 
SOTOGHANDE, Spain 

As long as Tiger Woods is around. even tlrn greatest strnak in golf nu longer seems safe. 
On Sunday, Wnods UfH'.ame the lirst player since Ben Ilogan in J953 Lo win four consecutive events on ttrn !'GA Tour, beating Miguet Angel .linwrwz on the lirsl playoff t10lt\ to capture the t\rncrican Exprnss 
Championship and mako liirn goll"s first $6 million man. 
Could Byron Nelson's record be next'? · "llopel'ully, next year I'll play tlw sa.mll type o!' golf', and we'II seP about tlrn numhor of viclo­rins," Wnods said. 
Nnlsnn holds the PGA Tour rucord with 11 straight victories in 1945, a slrnak regarded as ovnn more out of reach than the 18 major championships that Ja1'.k Nicklaus won. 
Still. nothing seems beyond Woods at thn rrioment. Dnspite a triple bogey 011 lhe tricked-up 17th hole of' 
Valderrama Golf Club. despite a Spanish gallery that was cheer­ing bis every mistake -thorn WP-ren't many Woods 
brought an end to one of the most memorable years in gCllf with an unforget­table finish. 
"I've had a 

great sea-Woods son, and it's nice to encl it this way and tCl got a victory on a tough, tough, tough day," ho said. Tough'? Bizarre was more liko it. lie made his winning putt undBr floodlights around the 18th green, with the Spanish Civil Army decked out in their paramilitary suits holding back a throng of f'ans in the fairway. And only an hour earlier, it appeared tho greatest round of Woods' career would be wasted on the diabolical No. 17. where an apparnnl perfect shot rolled helplessly off the green and into 
the water. 
"You can't get down on your­self for hitting good shots,'' Woods said. "The execution of lhc shots were all good. It's just unfortunate." 
Jimenez, cheered by a Spanish gallery so partisan that it brought back memories of tho Hyder Cup, made a bogey on the last hole to fall back into a tie and allow Woods another chance. 
I le took advantage. as he has done all year, earning a.nother $1 million payoff. 
Woods has won eight times in his last 11 tournaments, includ­ing a victory against a world­r.lass field in Germany. He became the first player since Johnny Miller in 1974 with eight !>GA Tour victoriBs in one season, a feat matched by only five others. 
By finishing the year with four straight victories, a streak that started and ended with a World Golf Championship title, he earned $6.6 million, nearly $3 million more than David Duval. 
Woods closed with a 3-under 68, one of unly six players to break par on the windswept day at Valderrama. Jimenez had a 69 as both finished at 278. Dudley Hart had a 70 and was at 283, the only other player who finished the tournament under par. 
Lost in the mayhem of the 17th -11 players had a double bogey or worse on Sunday ­was a round so remarkable that Woods was 6-under over a six­bole stretch in the middle of his round and was on pace for a score 10 strokes better than the course average of 75.1 in the final round. 
"He's on a mission," said his caddie, Steve Williams, as they walked to the Bth tee. 
Woods could do no wrong. From under a forest of cork trees, he found an opening no larger than a hot tub and squeaked out a par on No. 13, then busted a 6-iron through the stiff wind to 3 feet for a birdie on the next hole. 
"lncrcdiblo," Jim Furyk said after he finished his round and looked back at a scoreboard that showed Woods at 10 under. "This round he's having represents what has happened 
in the last part of the year." 
But after his first bogey of the round on No. 16, Woods watched a perfect day come unraveled on a hole that has been redesigned three times. 


Woods already had one bad
GOT A WORD 
memory of the hole by hitting across the green and into the water during the Ryder Cup in 1997. This was different, a strategy marked by smart deci­

FOR OUR TASTY NEW 
sions and a damaging result. 


Saini Mary's College •Apowerful drama based on the actual Vietnam War experienoes of six American women. 
CHICKEN CLUB SANDWICH: 
Thursday -Saturday November 11 -13
(RAVEABLE. 
at 8 p.m. Sunday, November 14 at 2:30 p.m.(Ir's NOT A REAL WORD, BUT WE LIKE IT.) 

THE TASTY (HICKEN CLUB IS HERE TO STAY. 
One bite of the delicious Chicken CllA!, and you'll always crave the flavor ol its all-white-meal chicken topped with :nspy bacon. lresh letluce and tomato and mayonnaise. And that's no problem, because now this ultra-satisfying sandwich is here to stay at BURGER KING'. So come on on and indulge your craving 
The Hlddle • Lafortune Student Center PAflTICIPATtON MAY VAflY. 
Ile drove into the fairway, laid up with a 6-iron and had 100 yards to the hole, which was on the bottom shelf. Woods hit a 9­iron. two clubs more than nor­mal to avoid spinning down the hill, and thought he was perfect. 
"You don't spin back a 9-iron, at least I don't," he said. "It just kind or rolled back. It actually picked up speed by the hole, as if a wind gust hit it." 
Even more shocking was the gallery, which jumped and cheered as the ball trickled 35 feet -past the pin. off the green, down the slopo and into the water. 
Woods, striding confidently toward the green, froze when the ball disappeared. 
"It was disappointing to hear the sounds, but understand­able," Woods said. "They obvi­ously wanted him [Jimenez) to win." 
Woods took a drop and hit to the top shelf. then watched Tom Lehman's chip from the same area nearly come to a stop on the green, then roll down the shelf and keep going into the water. Woods three-putted for his triple bogey, although it could have been worse. 
"He played great today," Lehman said. "To have a tour­nament possibly decided when you make an 8 and not miss a shot. ... Golf is not meant to be that way." 
Jimenez, two groups behind, appeared to have the tourna­ment won when his approach stayed on the green and he made a 6-foot par putt to stay one stroke ahead. 
Little Theatre 
Box Office al 
284-4626 


INTERESTED IN SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, AND ETHICAL QUESTIONS? 
Moral issues surrounding technology assessment. 
bioethics, human genetics, environmental management, 
computerization, and architectural design confront us 
everyday. 

To eXPlore these problems In depth, invesugate the unique Notre Dame STV Program. This Is aminor requiring 15 hours 01 course credits that can be taken bY students In any college. Within the STV Program you mav develop con­centrations In speclHc tracks emphasizing STV lnterac­Uons with Business; Environmental Studios: Pre-profes­sional Studies; Philosophv and Theolooy; Computerization and Physical Sciences: and Government and Public Polley. 

course onerlnos for snrinu 2000 may be reviewed bV 1n1or­01adon obtained at 346 O'Shauohnessy, or visit our website at htlP://www.nd.edu/~stv. Call 631-5015 for apersonal 
IT JUST TASTES 8ETTER7 
appalnnnent.
www.burgerkmg.com 

.. 
• 
.. 
page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, November 8, 1999 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

SMU investigates exam fraud 
Associated P rcss 
DALLAS 
SMU is reportedly investigating a former football player's allega­tions that a recruiter suggested he cheat on his college entrance exam. 
Assistant coach Steve Malin agreed to pay $100 to have a stand-in take the American College Testing exam for Corlin Donaldson in 1998, Donaldson alleges in Sunday's editions of The Dallas Morning News. 
SMU announced on Aug. 6 that it had notified the NCAA of possi­bIe recruiting violations by Malin. 
An SMU official, who declined to be identified, confirmed that the school is specifically investi­gating allegations of entrance exam fraud. The News reported. 
Donaldson, 20, told the news­paper he talked to SMU's inter­nal lawver, Leon Bennett; to ath­letics d·irector Jim Copeland; to Charles Howard, the school's NCAA compliance director; and to an outside investigator that SMU soon hired. 
He signed a statement saying that Malin had influenced him to cheat on the ACT exam, later recanted the story, and now says Malin pressured him to retract 

"We will not speculateon 
potentila findings ofthe 
investigaation while it is 
in progress. 
Jim Copeland SMU athletic director 
the statement. 
Malin has been suspended with pay, pending an investiga­tion by a Kansas City law firm retained by the school. Malin declined comment and directed questions. to attorney Kirk Watson of Austin, who did not return telephone calls from the newspaper or The Associated Press. 
Copeland would not comment on specifics of the investigation but issued this statement: 
"As with any investigation of this type, there is conflicting information. We will not specu­late on potential findings of the investigation while it is in progress. The investigation, which is being conducted by the firm of Bond, Schoeneck & King of Kansas City, is moving for­ward, and we will make an· announcement at its conclusion." 
In 1987, SMU became the only Division I-A football program to receive the NCAA's "death penalty." 
Because of repeated violations, the football program was shut down that season, and SMU vol­untarily stopped the program from competing in what would have been a restricted season and .away-only schedule in 1988. SMU resumed playing football in 1989 and has had just one win­ning season (6-5 in 1997) since. 
A defensive back at Dallas Kimball, Donaldson was recruit­ed by SMU but did not score high enough on the ACT to receive a scholarship, the newspaper said. 
Donaldson said Malin then suggested that he would pay $100 if somebody else would take the test and score high enough to qualify. 
The first stand-in matched Donaldson's inadequate score and Malin backed out of his deal, Donaldson said. 
But the player said he paid $100 out of his own pocket to a second impostor who scored high enough for Donaldson to be admitted to SMU. Tho test scheme unraveled just after the end of Donaldson's freshman season, when he received a let­ter from ACT officials saying that his tests scores had been can­celed because of invalid signa­tures. 
MAJOR LEAGUE SOCCER 

..._ 
Graziani's goal burns Galaxy 
Associated Press 
DALLAS 
Ariel Graziani scored two goals in regulation and had the decisive goal in the shootout to lead the Dallas Burn to a 3-2 victory over the Los Angeles Galaxy on Sunday and even the MLS' Western Conference finals. 
The deciding match in the best-of-3 series is Thursday in Los Angeles. 
Dallas and Los Angeles each scored twice in the first five shots of the shootout. Danny Pena of the Galaxy had his shot bounce off goalkeeper Matt Jordan and Graziani then scored the game-winner with a goal that bounced off goal­keeper Kevin Hartman and trickled just inside the right post. 
Graziani's first goal -a header off a bicycle kick by Mark Santel -tied it 1-1 in the 33rd minute. He tied the score again in the 73rd minute on a spectacular goal off a feed from Santel. Graziani set up in front of the goal, let Santel's cross go through his legs, then flicked the ball with his left heel to the far post past a diving Hartman. It was his fifth goal of the playoffs. 
Carlos Hermosillo scored both goals for the Galaxy, his first of the playoffs. 
Hermosillo scored the first goal in the 13th minute, head­ing a cross from Cobi Jones just under the crossbar. He scored again in the 54th minute by scooping a soft shot over Jordan, who had gone out to the edge of the penalty box to challenge. 
Dallas will play Game 3 without defender Eric Dade and midfielder Sergi Daniv who must serve one-game sus­pensions after receiving ye!­

i 
I 
low cards that put them over the league playoff limit of 11 caution points. 
Crew 5, United 1 
Stern John scored three goals in the second half as the Columbus Crew beat the D.C. United Sunday in the second game of their best-of-3 series for the Eastern Conference title. 
With the hat trick, John has five postseason goals this year. 
John's first goal came in the 48th minute off a pass from Todd Yeagley. John dribbled around defender Diego Sonora, and put a shot past goalkeeper Tom Presthus' right side. John scored again in the 61,st minute off a cor­nerkick by Robert Warzycha. 
John put the Crew up 5-1 in the 84th minute by dribbling around Presthus to put a shot in the upper right corner. 
United starting the game looking like the two-time champs they are when Roy Lassiter took advantage of ball deflected by defender Ansil Elcock and tapped in a goal in the 7th minute to put D.C. up 1-0. 
Lassiter's goal turned out to be the only shot on goal for United. Columbus had nine shots on goal and led in total shots 17-5. 
Elcock tied the game 1-1 in the 20th minute oft" an assist by Andy Williams. Elcock drib­bled inside the box and scored on a soft shot from 14 yards out. 
Jeff Cunningham scored what proved to be the winning goal in the 41st minute by splitting two defenders and blasting a shot past Presthus from 20 yards out to put the Crew up 2-1. Williams and John DeBrito assisted on the play. 
This is the third straight year United and the Crew have met in the conference finals. United swept the series in 1997 and beat the Crew in three games last year. United won the MLS Cup Championship in 1996 and 1997, before losing to Chicago last season. 
Game 3 of the series will be played next Saturday in RFK Stadium, where United has won all 12 meetings against the Crew, including four play­off wins. 
SWIMMING 

SIDith leads Belles in first win of season 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
Saini' Mary's Editor 
If the first time is a learning experience, breaststroker Lauren Smith learns well. 
Entering her first collegiate swim meet, Lauren had little reason to be nervous. A four­ti me record breaking 100 breaststroke swimmer in high school, sho knew her waters better than most. 
What she may not have expected, however, was to swim twice the length. Lauren's collegiate debut did not have the veteran sprinter swimming only the 100 yard breaststroke, but the 200 yard breastroke as well. . She didn't let it faze her. 
Smith's debut was more 
than a solid performance; the 
freshman clipped senior 
Michelle Samreta's 1999 
record to 2:36.17 and edged 
out a University of Chicago 
competitor by less than two­
tenths of a second for a first­
place finish. 
"She told me that she wasn't 
going to let anyone beat her in 
that event," said head coach 
Gretchen Hildebrandt. 
Smith, who knew the record was in reach, was surprised to eclipse her goal so early in the season. 
"I thought that the record was around 2:35; I wanted to go a 2:36," Lauren said. 01 wasn't expecting to do it this early. When we got back from the meet, I looked at the board and realized I'd broken it." 
Smith and Hildebrandt for­
mulated a race plan prior to 
the event, one that 
Hildebrandt said the swimmer 
carried out. 
"I had told her where to pick it up," Hildebrandt said, "and I was nervous because she looked tired and I wasn't sure if she could do it. She did. She held it the rest of the way." 
It was close finishes from .Lauren and the other Saint 
Mary's swimmers and divers 
that fueled the squad to anoth­
er first ~ an opening-season victory against University of Chicago, 175-99. 
"We've shown that [other teams] need to be afraid,"' Hildebrandt said. "We're not going to sit back. This changes our image: we've proven we are tough competitors." 
The win marks Saint Mary's first season opening win this decade, as well as Hildebrandt's first victory as head coach for the Belles. 
"It's awesome," Hildebrandt said. 'This just reinforces what we've been doing [in practice]. They've proven they can han­dle hard work, and I'm going to continue to work them just as hard. I'm excited for the future'ofthis team." 
Walking into the meet trail­ing in the wake of University of Chicago's fourth-place finish at the Notre Dame Relays and its five-point victory over the Belles in last year's meet, the squad wasn't necessarily focused on a win, said junior captain Olivia Smith. 
"We knew we had a good chance since we'd only lost by five points last year," she said. "We knew we had a good chance, but we didn't want to· get cocky about it. No one expected to win this." 
Saint Mary's finished on top in 10 events, led by Smith in the 200 breaststroke and triple winner Alicia Lesneskie in the 1000 freestyle (11:54.31), 200 backstroke (2:22.70) and 500 freestyle (5:47.09). Sophomore Danielle Clayton was a double winner for the Belles, claiming the 50 freestyle (26.30) and the 100 freestyle (57.30). 
Other first-place finishes .came from freshman Lane Herrington in the 200 freestyle 
(2:09.33) and Samreta in the 100 breastroke (1:11.77). 
The 400 medley relay of junior Colleen Sullivan, Samreta, Herrington and Clayton won with a time of 
1:59.41. The 400 freestyle relay wrapped up the meet with a first-place finish, with junior Colleen Smith, Lesneskie, Smith and Clayton posting 1:50.34. 

HOMES FOR RENT 


-Domus Properties has two, five, six, and nine bedroom student housing available 
-Student neighborhoods close to 
campus -Security systems provided -Well maintained homes -Maintenance staff on call 
Available for the 2000/200t· school year · 
BETTER HURRY!!! ONLY 5 HOUSES LEFT 
Contact Kramer (219)274-1501 or (219)234-2436 or (219)674-2572 
I_ ­
Monday, November 8, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
011 offense, delivering 16 shots 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

on goal -double what the
M. Soccer 
Knights came up with. 
Short closed out his Notrecontinued from page 28 
Dame career by registering five 
Ratay leads Irish past All-Stars 
(fold. We both had opportunithls, saves in goal. Goalkeeper Greg 
but tlmy wern able to capitalize on theirs whilo we wero not." 
The Knights combined tlrnir poliint offense with a steely c!Pfonsc, allowing the Irish only two shots 011 goal. 
"Wo did play well. Thn book shows only two shots, hut we were getting immnd the box and moving the ball pretty well," said Hosso. "We had opportunities, but we just didn't take shots whmi wn should havn." 
The Knights brnk11 down the Irish defense and peppered the goal with 17 shots. They rngis­term! six shots in the first half and. despite bdng held scoreless in tlw second half, put 11 shots 
(mgo~.
The tone of the game was unlik!! the last mmiting bntween tlw two squads earlier this sua­son. Tho Knights beat the Irish in October with a l-0 shutout decision, but the Irish dominat_ed 
LARKIN 
Accomplished guitarist 
& folk singer 
TUE.5DAY, NOVEMBER 16 • 7:30 p.m. LlTI1E 1HEATRE 
S./,1M.,1'• CoJl•6'o
,~f~JfR­
~N01111'DAIii!, IN 
For ticket information contact Saint Mary's College Box office 
284-4626 
Tait also saw playing time for the second time this season when he replaced Short for the final seven minutes of the con­test. Forward Erich Braun regis­tered the Irish squad's only shots. Braun ended his freshman season leading the team in scored goals and points with nine goals, six assists and 24 points overall. 
He11ecting on a season of ups. and downs, the Irish are pleased with the results. 
"You've got to be upset about the losses or the ties, but we achieved our first goal which was making the playoffs," said Hosso. "We came together as a 
team near the end of the season
h 
to tic Seton Hall and make t e Big East tournament. While it would have been great to have made it farther, overall deep down, we're pleased with what w_e_w_e_r_e_a_bl_e_t_o_a_cc_:o_m_p_L_is_h_."__, 
By KERRY SMITH 
Sporrs Writer 

While it was close at times, the Notre Dame women's bas­ketball team proved why its this year's team to beat, upend­ing the 
Premier All-Women's 

Stars, 94-85, in an exhibi-Basketball tion game Exhibition 
Sunday. 
Freshman Notre Dame 94 guard Alicia All-Stars 85 Ratay and 
sophomore forward Ericka Haney com­bined for 42 points, while all starters registered double fig­ures in points in the come­from-behind victory. showing that on a team rich with upper­class talent, youth will also be an asset in the coming season. 
Ratay scored a game-high 22 points in her first career game with the Irish as Haney and center Ruth Hiley added 20 and 18 points. rnspPctively. 
The Irish were put to the test against the All-Stars, a team of players who graduated college between 1989 and 1999. 
The Irish took control of the ball from the start, capitalizing on some loose balls and sloppy ball-handling by the All-Stars. Taking the hall to the hoop rnpeatedly in the opening min­utPs of the first half, the Irish quickly jumped out to a 26-8 lead. Haney connected on a jumper with 12 minutes remaining to give the Irish squad its largest lead of the game at 18 points. 
"We were playing with a lot of emotion at the beginning of the game," said Hatay. "It was our first game playing together this season and we got out to a strong start and just kept build­ing up the lead. They weren't taking good care of the ball at times and we took advantage of that." 
The All-Stars, who were 3-0 entering Sunday's game settled down as the final minutes of the half drained awav. man­aged to cut the Irish ·1ead to seven by halftime. 
Notre Dame posted impres­sive numbers in the first half, connecting on 18 of 36 field goal attempts for a .50 shot percentage. The All-Stars couldn't match the accuracy of the Irish and ended the half V\ith a .323 shot percentage, as they were 10 for 31 from the court. 
The opening minutes of the second half brought a less organized and less potent Irish squad to the court. Sloppy play and weak defense by the Irish led to a 15-1 run by the All­Stars in the first six minutes, as the Ohio-based team quickly chipped away at the Irish lead and took its first lead of game. All-Star center Mindy Smith­Hutchinson drove down the lane for a quick lay-up, bring• ing the score to 47-46. 
Hutchinson came up big for the All-Stars again with 12 minutes remaining in the game when her outside jumper gave her team their biggest lead at 54-48. 

"We played sloppy at the beginning of the second half," said Ratay. "The other team was more mature and played better as a team, but we were able to come from behind and get the lead back." 
As the final 10 minutes ticked off the clock, the Irish and the All-Stars swapped the ball back and l'orth several times. Irish guard Niele Ivey knocked in a key three-pointer that put the Irish up 58-57 with 9:50 remaining. 
"Defense was our main focus in the final minutes," said Ratay. "We started playing more like a team on defense which helped us get control of the ball. We came up with some big st'ilals that led to bas­kets that gave us the lead." 
Capitalizing on some All-Star mistakes and bringing down some key rebounds in the linal minutes, the Irish quickly extended the lead to 94-85 for the win. 
Riley's 10-for-10 perfor­mance at the line was key in keeping the Irish close in final minutes. The junior center fin­ished the day with six rebounds and six blocked shots. 
Ivey's appearance on the court marked her return for the Irish since suffering a sea­son -ending ACL injury in the semifinal round of the Big East tournament in March. 
Ivey and forward Kelley Siemon each added 12 points for the Irish. 

of d~fihjng the way e-business ;fprecedinted quarter of a billion first national eCRM application package 
Meet DC Systems, November 15th, 7:30""9:30 p.m. Room ·210,>~~V\ter:i;;@irGor,~jouihg Education.
-,-.,, 

-
• itt 

~ 
'·IC llltfMI .& 
EDUCATION 

YSTEMS AT WWW.DCSYS.COM 

JOB TURNER/The Observer Freshman Ashley Dryer steals the ball from a Huskie player in Sunday's win over Connecticut. Dryer's quickness and ball handling earned her a starting spot in the Irish lineup. She registered one shot in the win over Connecticut. 

-

Monday, November 8, 1999 The Obs;rver . BIG EAST CHAMPIONSHIPS page 25 
Notre Dame knocks out Smith, Seton Hall in semifinals 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Associ,ae Sport> E<liror 
PISCATAWAY, N ..I. 

The No!rn Dame women's soccer team's 5-0 win over Lim Setun llall Pirates may havo taken 90 minutes but as far as Snlon llall wa,; concnrnncl, llrn game was over with 2(, minutES aml 18 seconds left in the first half. 
That was when Kelly Smith, tho Big Ea,;t ()ffon,;ive playm· ol' the year and lead­ing goal scorer in the country with 27, went down with an ankle injury. 
Smith was dribbling at the top of the box with lwr back to the Irish goal and Irish junior captain Kelly Lindsey was tightly covnring Smith when senior-Irish clefondtlr Karn Brown camo ovur lo clcm­blc\ tnam tlw stmior from England. When Brown c,tnw over aml 1Jurnpt1el h,~r. Smith fp)) and rninjurnd thn ankle shn sprained a Wt\ek Parlier againsl Providence. Smith Intl tlw ganw and rnturned briefly in the second half -long al'lcr the lrish cstab­lislmd control of tlw game. 
W!wn Smith wenl down, lhn whole game changed, according to Irish head coach Harnly Waldrum. 
"Slw is tlrn only rnal IPgitimate threat to scorn that they havn so iL µut a lot of' prns­surP of tlm n~st of' thPir t,iam," Waldrum said. "We are a lot dilfornnt because we arn <loepnr to WH don't haw, those kind of prnblt•ms. '' 
While Smith's absence did change the game, the Irish defonse did not relax, according to Jen Grubb, tlrn Big East Ddimdnr of the Year. 
"I think it chang1id for us because we obviously wernn't concerned with their best player bning on the field," the senior Irish captain said. "But they were a good team so just becaust\ she wasn't out there didn't mean wti could let down." 
Even lmforn Smilh was injured, she wasn't much of a factor in tho game. The l,ish offensP controlled tlw ball for most ol' thn game and kept the action in the 

Jenny Streiffer battles a Seton Hall player for the ball In Notre Dame's 5-0 In the semifinals. Streiffer scored a goal and tallied an assist against the Pirates. 
Pirates end of' the field. The Irish also kept Seton llall goalkeeper Leah Miller busy, rngistering 34 shots. Irish senior Jenny Streilfor scored the game winner just six minutes into the gamo when she headed a cross from Mentis Erikson to the far post. Erikson blasted a throw in from Brown high across tho box to Streiffor who was waiting on the !'ar side of the net. 
When the Pirates did manage to clear the ball to Smith, she was immediately double teamed by the Irish defense that has given up only three goals in regular season conforcmce games this year. The close defens11 of Smith was much different frnm the last time the Irish and the Piratns met when Smith was allowed to roam free and tallied a goal and an assist. 
"The last game we let her run at us too much and nvery lime she drws that she gains conficlm1cc," Wa!dru,n said. "I thought Kelly Lindsey did a great job on her and Jen Grubb and Kara Brown came up and doubled on her well. We always tried t.o put a cuuple of players around her whenever she had the ball." 
The best chance the Pirates had to score on tho day came off the free kick following Smith's injury. Seton Hall's kick sailed over the wall of Irish defenders and toward the top of the goal. Irish goalkeep­er LaKeysia Beene made her best save of the weekend when she leaped and deflected the shot over the top of the net for one of her two saves of the day. 
Beene shared the shutout with sopho­more Elizabeth Wagner who replaced the senior in the 74th minute with the Irish victory already assured. 
The Irish team that neutralized Smith Friday was a much difierent squad than Irish fans saw in their last three wins over Wisconsin, Indiana and Miami. The men­tal errors and sluggish play of those three games were gone and the Irish looked much sharper. The Irish have finally begun to focus as the games got more important. Grubb said. 

"I think we have just realiz(ld that at this point in the season_we can't afford to be sluggish and get down a goal or two," she said. "We can't give them any more confidence than they already have. We know we have to come out and play well." 
While thA defense was containing the Seton Hall offense, the Irish offense was dictating the flow of the game with ball possession and early goals. Fourteen min­utes after Strei!Ter scored, Erikson got her first goal of the game. Brown fired a cross which Erikson dellected to the left of the goal for her 13th goal of the year. 
The Irish of'fonse was ready to play from the start, according to Erikson. 
"We just came out with the mental set that we had to come out and start playing well early," she said. 
Erikson lit up the scoreboard again early in the second half. In the 62nd minute, Big East Rookie of the Year Vanessa Pruzinsky fed Erikson between two defenders for the assist as Erikson beat the keeper to the Jell side to put the Irish up 3-0. 
Erikson picked up her sixth point of the day and Streiffer tailed her 70th career assist on senior Jenny Hcft's goal in the 67th minute. Erikson fed Streiffer who fired a shot on goal. Miller could not grab the shot and the rebound rolled out toward Hell who was following the shot. Heft put the ball past Miller for her 77th career goal. Streiffer's assist made her just the third player in NCAA history to tally 70 assists in a career. 
Mia Sarkesian added an insurance goal in the 86th minute when junior Monica Gonzalez fed her streaking behind the defense for a one-on-one with Miller. 
-
Sarkesian easily beat Miller to close out the Irish scoring. 
===-~ -=-====================================================================================­
Heal thy Lindsey leads dominating Irish defense 
. Junior captain fully recovered from early season knee injury 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
A.s.soci,ue Sports Editor 
PISCATAWAY, N.J. 

Somntinws you don't rnalizo how good something is until it's !{<1111'. · 
Irish fans lnariwd the hard way how important K1dly l.indsny wlwn Lill' junior cap­tain went down wilh a knlw injury against North Carolina i11 tlw first game of the season. Without Lindsey, tlrn defm1s,1 looknd disorganiznd as the Irish losl a 2-1 lnad latn in tho ganw. 
"You dP!initely notke a dif'­l'nrnncn wlwn slw is not in tlw ganw." Irish goal k,in pP r LaKnysia Bn(~nl' said about l.inrlsiiy. "Farly in tlw SPason slw couldn't gel in llw game lwcaw;p of' lwr k1w" but wlwn shn gots in you notkP a difft•r­t\lll'P in llw back." 
l.indsny frnqtwntly draws llw job of dnl'Pncling tlrn top player for thu opposing tnam. OvPr the wt>ekP11d in tlw Big East championships, slw 1ml an Irish dt>fE'llSP 1hal held ltw most dangnrous scornr in wonum·s soccer, K,dly Smith, score.loss in Notn• Dame's :i-0 s1imilinal win over Seton Ilall. Every tinw Smith tnuclrnd tlw 
hall, Lindsny was on her and 
stop1wd her from gelting any good looks at tlw goal. 1.imlsey relishes her role as Notre Dame's top def'n11der. "I definitely tah pridn in 
that fcovering Hw opponents top playersI." she said. "I think my job is to stPp u11. in front and Int I.Jeni Grubb swcep in behind. So I always srrnm to gel stuck with them Ithe best players]." 
While thren of Lindsey's teammates -Grubb, Kara Brown and Vanessa l'ruzinsky -were honnred by ilrn Big East, Lindsey was left off the post season awards list -a glaring omission according to Irish head coach Handy Wa.ldrum. 
"She is critical," Waldrum said. "She is certainly one or our top del'nnders. I am disap­pointed that sho didn't make All-Big East. 
"l think that was ,;trictly bncausc she was out at the beginning ol' tho year lwcause of her injury," Im continued. "There's no way you can. She is nol an all-conforpncn or a regional All-Amnrican ty1rn player for us." 
Lindsey, however, is not con­cerned with her lack or rncog­nition ancl doubts wfwtlwr or not she is capable of earning posttmasnn accolades. 
"I don't think I'll havt' tho chancn to maku 1.hosn kind of' tPams so I just play l'or the Lcam INotrn Damn!." she said. "If we can win llrn national championship, that's Pnough !'or nw." 
While Lindsey doubts her chances of' winning posLseason awards. Waldrum has no doubt that shn would have made all-conforcnn: had she nimained lrnalthy. 
"I think if' she would have been 100 percent healthy at the lmginning of the snasort. it might have mado a differ-once." he said. "I think it was more to do with the fact that she wasn't 100 percent at the beginning of the season more than anything." 
Besides her health. one of the reasons that Lindsey might havfl be(m left off llrn postsea­son awards role was her lack of offensive statistics. While Grubb scored nine goals for the Irish and 13rown led the team with 14 assists, Lindsey registered only two shots on goal -spending most of her time hanging back on defense. While Lindsey would like to get more involved in the offense, she understands that her role is on del'ense. 
"Everyone wants lo score," she said. "So I am definitely a person who would like to scorn but my jo.b is on defense." 
-
lier teammates appreciate her dcifonsive talents. 
"Kelly sticks hard tackle af'ttir h,tnl Cackle," Beene said. "She is the player we rely on when tho gamo is on tho lino." 
Coming back from the early­season injury was a tough road but Lindsey is finally 
•
back, and opposing offenses are finding that Lindsey might be Urn best dcd'ender that nobody says anything about. 
"It wa,; rough in the begin­ning, Pspncially getting taken out in tho North Carolina game," slw said. "But I um feeling stronger than ever and finally peaking at the right time." 
Wilh the NCAA lournament starting for the Irish next weekend, Notre Dame couldn't ask for a bnltor time f'or its best dfffondfir to be playing at the top of her game. 

......--..--------·-~-----------------------------------------------....----------, 
page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, November 8, 1999 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Doherty era starts off on right foot with win over Qatar 
By BRIAN CHURNEY 
Sports Writer 
Amidst a surprising large JACC crowd for an exhibition game, the Matt Doherty era in Notre Dame men's basketball began Friday night with a 94­79 victory over the International Select Al.I-Stars. 
The flnal score was not near­ly indicative of the closeness or the game, though, The All-Stars kept the outcome in doubt, leading for most of the first half by as many as nine points. 
In the early goings, the Irish had a hard time stopping the streaky shooting of Tony Graves. The 6-foot-8 forward out of Southwest Missouri scored 13 first-half points, nine of which came on shots taken from well behind the three­po.int line. 
But something Doherty said in the 20-second timeout he t:alled with 9 minutes, 30 sec­onds remaining In the half must have regislered wilh the team. The Irish increased defensive pressure, · holding the International team to just nine points before the buzzer. 
When Matt Carroll finally tied the game at 45 with 1 :45 to go until halftime, it was clear that momentum had shifted. 
The second half was all-Irish, as Notre Dame took advantage of the All-Stars' obvious fatigue, holding them to 33 percent

-shooting and out-rebounding them 22-15, Notre Dame took the lead at the 19-minute mark of the sec­
"I had a few pre-game jitters. the normal butterflies, but after a few mintues, I felt I _qot a rhythm going." 
Matt Carroll Irish shooting guard 
ond half and didn't look back. 
Troy Murphy led the Irish, at times looking unstoppable, scoring 28 points and accumu­lating 11 rebounds. Murphy, who scored 22 of his 29 in the first half, distributed the ball to teammates in the second half, piling up four second-half assists. 
ul got a lot of open ~oks in the first half and fortunately was able to convert them:" Murphy said. "They really started to buckle down on mP in the second half, so I startel) to distribute the ball to some of my teammates." 
Matt Carroll was the key to the Irish second-half surge, scoring 10 of his 20 points in the first five minutes. Carroll displayed remarkable poise for a freshman, shooting 70 per­cent for the game, including a perfect 3-for-3 from beyond the arc despite taking most of those shots with a hand in his face. 
"I had a few pre-game jitters. the normal butterflies. but after a few minutes, 1 felt I got a rhythm going," said Carroll. "After a while, you realize, it's just the same game as always." 
Other bright spots for the Irish included freshman Jere Macura and the trio of Irish point guards Mike Monserez, Jimmy Dillon and Martin Inglesby. Macura, who scored 13 points. grabbed 8 rebounds and flashed an athleticism that has been rare on recent Irish teams. received high praise from Doherty. 
"Jere's gonna be a fantastic player," he said, 'Tm r.xcited to see him improve throug:hout the year." 
The three point guards, while not piling up overwhelming sta­tistics, did exactly what Doherty has asked them to do: take care of the ball and limit turnovers. The three combined for 15 points and seven assists while only committing three turnovers, 
The Irish did experience a mild scare when freshman cen­ter Ivan Kartelo left the game in the first half in what appeared to be a significant amount of pain, favoring his knee. Fortunately for the Irish. the injury seems to be mild and Kartclo isn't expected lo miss much action. 
For Matt Doherty, the win was quite a relief 
"I was nervous, but excited. I had to give the prayer before the game and was nervous I might mess up the Hail Mary," Doherty said laughingly, "It's nice to get out and actually play." 
'Tm not as concerned about winning and losing," he added. "I want to get better each day. I've told our team, I'd rather get better and lose than simply win." 


Looking For A Challenge that will prepare you for the future? 


We _have raised a quarter of a billion dolla_rs to become the first national eCRM application package service provider. We will dominate our market. 
Do you want in? 
-
To hear our story, come to Room 210, at Center For Continuing Education on November 15th at 7:30 p.m. 
Interviews will take place on November 16th. 
Mark A, Dronen President and Cl'Xl 

RI 
At DC Systems, We Take The Future Seriously. www.dcsys.com 
Monday, November 8, 1999 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
TOM KEELEY

FOURTH AND INCHES 

BILLAMEND

Fox TROT 

www.loxtrot.com
e t999 EWI Alnenu/Ot,1. ll"t Un11f&rs.l Prass ~ITUlc.ate 
THE "')(•F1LES" FALL
lliE "X•F1LES'' 

SEASON HA~ BEGUN! IT IS STILL BARELY,
FALL SEASON 

FALL, 8uT YEc;.
HAS BEGUN! 

I <-• , 
RIGHT? 
I 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 28 Plague carriers 49 Nutcase 1 In _ straits 29 Contend (for) 50 Uncle who "wants you!" 
5 Impassive 32 Scents 53 Shoppers'
10 Arrangement of 33 Change the the hair furnishings mecca #3 56 Home of Iowa
14 Drug addict 34_Lee Corporation Slate
15 Antldrug cop 35 Shoppers' 57 Gin's partner 16BMW mecca#2 58 Miles away
competitor 38 "Holy smokes!" 59 Playwright Hart 
17 Shoppers' mecca #1 60 Notable period 
39 Catcher's need 

20 Sen. Kennedy 40 A ship to 61 Newborn remember
21 Work units 41 Place for a
22 State In which DOWN
home office, Eisenhower was maybe 1 Airpipe, e.g.

born 42 Ballpoints, e.g. 2 of Man 23 Dairy case Item 43 School paper 3 Marsh growth 24 Grant of "An holder 4 Notable period Affair to 44 Guys' partners 

Remember" 5 Traps 45 Dressed
25 French city on 6 Ballroom dance the Strait of 46 Charlotte _, 
7 Horrid giants Dover Vlrgln Islands 8 Polar formation 
9 Parakeet'sANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE cousin 
T  S  10 Shrewd  Puzzle 11y Eel Eany  
ll!!!'t-e+.:+R:-+-:E:-1 11 The double of a  28 Takes five  45 Like orange  50 Divan  
B A  e-:-+:-t-:-:-t.  A N  double play  29 In effect  traffic markers  51 Basra native  
I S 12 Inkling -e-:11..-::-:+-:--t,N...+,:0:-1 13 Pines  30 Goodnight girl of song  46 Funnyman Sandler  52 A_ pittance  
18 Enjoy with gusto 31 Diner  47 Office note  54 Finish, with "up"  
~~::--i.1111-;;:+:-t;.1...-t-;;"1 19 Big donkey  33 Sights at Angkor  48Simians  55 Coca-Cola Co.  
features  Wat  49 Numbers game  brand  
23 Propelled a  34 Valiant fight  
canoe  36 Brunch staple  Answers to any three clues In this puzzle  
AL  A  -..;:;.+;.;+;,;,. ....::+.-+::s-r.o:-t 24 West Pointer  37 Eskimo boats  are available by touch-tone phone:  
..,,,  25 Intimidated  42 Unexciting  1-900-420-5656 {95~ per minute).  
E D  T  S  26 Saying  poker holding  Annual subscriptions are available for the  
S O  M E A R A  27 Navigational  43 Irregular spot  best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50  
T R  M A N N  I  X  system  44 Tumbler  years: 1-688-7-ACROSS.  

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

JEFF BEAM

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 

beam.1@nd.edu 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22):DAY: Katharine Hepburn, Bonnie Romantic relationships will end as Raitt, Courtney Thome-Smith, Ricki quickly as they began. Try to be Lee Jones, Maxy Hart 1-ionest with yourself about your 
Happy Birthday: You'll be in a position. It is best not to make waves no-nonsense frame of mind, ready to at work. Gossip will get you into take on the world and prove your trouble. 0000 point. Your willingness to help those LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You'll less capable of accornplishirig their be in the limelight at group meet­
goals will bring you newfound ings. Your ideas are solid, and the friends. Don't expect to have free rest of the members will be willing to time on your hands this year, so gear help you put them into motion. 
-
up and get moving. Your numbers: 3, Don't feel guilty for doing things you 17, 21, 32, 38, 45 enioy. 000 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): A Make some arrangements to spend jealous rage may cause your mate to the day with your emotional partner. back away from you. Try to stay Renovations will tum out as planned. cahn and keep in mind that you can't You will be in a do-it-yourself mood, force someone to stay with you if his 
so lots can be accomplished. 000 or her heart is somewhere else. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): This SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. is not the day to put demands on 21): Pleasure trips will be fun, but your partner. You should look over realize that they will cost you more legal documents and make sure that than you bargained for. Your tenden­you have all your papers in order. cy to overspend and gamble will 
You can make money if you invest cause problems with your partner. 
wisely.000 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Older CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19):relatives may try to cause problems Sudden good fortune can be yours if for you and your mate. Be adamant you take a chance. Deal with govern­when dealing with those who wish ment agencies or any red tape you 
to meddle in your personal affairs. have hanging over your head. Be You need to stick up for the one you secretive about your personal life. 
love.000 0000 CANCER (June 21-July 22): AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Don't be too quick to agree to pend­Your mate will be disappointed if ing settlements. You need to look at you have been too busy to spendthe situation objectively. Aslc a good time with him or her. Try to plan friend for advice. Make purchases for activities that will allow you to bring your home that will bring comfort. your partner along. 00 00000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can ability to encourage your colleagues expect to have difficulties with those will enhance your reputation and 
you live with. Make plans to be out put you in a good position when as much as possible. You should be 11 comes to evaluation time at work. an active member in groups or clubs. :Vou~. creative approach will be 
00 

InSplilllS-00000 
Birthday Baby: You are a doer and an achiever. You will take whatever is offered to you and turn it into something great. Your creative imagination, coupled with your }'ractical hardworking attitude, will help you accomplish whatever you want throughout your life. 
(Need advice? Checlc. out Eugenia's Web sites at aatroadvlce.com, eugenialulcom, astromate.com.) 
Ol999Uruversa!PreosSyndi~re 

-
-----------------~--~~-------------------------------------~-------------­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive Th.e Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 

Name ______________________ 
Address City ________ State ____ Zip______ 


Murphy's Law 
The Notre Dame men ·s basketball team defeated the International All-Stars 94-79 in an exhibition game Friday. 

PORTS 
page 26 


O
THE page 28 BSERVER Monday, November 8, 1999 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Notre Dame wins fifth straight Big East title 
. Irish overcome gusting winds to defeat Huskies, 4-2 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Associate Sporrs Editor 

PISCATAWAY, N.J 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team extended its Big East champi­onship winning streak to 15 games and won its fifth straight confer­ence championship with a 4-2 win over the Connecticut Huskies on a windy Sunday afternoon at Yarack Field in Piscataway, N.J. 
Both teams played conservatively with neither team attacking or tak­ing many risks. 
"I thought it was a great game," head coach Randy Waldrum said. "I didn't think we played great soccer but that's what happens in champi­onship games. You get two good teams and you become very conser­vative. I think that was a bit of the case today." 
The Irish used goals from Jenny Streiffer, Jenny Heft, Ali Lovelace and a goal by the Huskies in their 
-
own net to overcome gusting winds that played havoc with long kicks and crosses all afternoon. With the wind at their backs in the first half, the Irish opened the scoring 8 min­utes and 12 seconds into the first half when Streiffer broke behind the Huskie defense and took a pass from Big East Defensive Player of the Year Jen Grubb. One-on-one with goalkeeper Maria Yatrakis, Streiffer fired a hard shot over her head for a 1-0 Irish lead. 
The Huskies gave the Irish a gift 
see FINALS/page 24 

MEN'S SOCCER 

Knights joust Irish out of conference quarterfinals 
By KERRY SMITH 
Sporrs Writer 

-
The Scarlet Knights of Rutgers left the Notre Dame men's soccer team seeing red as they ousted the Irish 
from the Big East championships in the quarterfinal round Saturday. 
Entering into the championship series seeded eighth, the Irish were unable to upset the top-seeded and 17th-ranked Knights in Piscataway, 
N.J. 

"Rutgers is a great team. If they're not the best in the conference, then they're definitely one of the best," said midfielder Matt Rosso. "They have some real good players and some excellent athletes." 
With the loss, the Irish dosed out their 1999 campaign, finishing the season with an 8-9-3 overall and 4-5­3 Big East conference record. 
Posting a 2-0 victory, the Knights set the tone of the game in the opening minutes of play. 
"We wanted to come out hard and not let them or their fans into the game, but they were able to take advantage early on" said Rosso. 'The two goals obviously aITected it us, but we did our best to keep at the ball and keep pressuring their players and to not let the goals affect us so much that it altered our play." 
Less than three minutes had expired off the dock in the first half before Knights' defonder Todd Moser chipped a shot past Irish goalkeeper Gerick Short at the 2:36 mark. Midfielder Guy Abrahamson set up the play for the Knights when he crossed the ball to Moser in front of the net. 
"They came down the field early and finished one play off of a cross for the first goal," said Rosso. "It was a let down for us and a big boost for them and their fans, but we stayed in the game and still played well." 
That was all the Knights needed for the win, but they added an insurance goal 14 minutes later when forward Dennis Ludwig notched the final score of the game in the 16th minute of play. 
"After they scored early on, the game was really going either way and we were well matched," said Rosso. "They didn't dominate on the field by any means and we weren't always put on the defensive. Most of the play happened in the middle third of the 
see M. SOCCER/page 23 


vs. Marachon vs. Alaska Fairbanks Volleyball Thursday, 7:30 p.m. ~ Friday, 7:05 p.m. at Villanova 
SPORTS 
Saine Mary's Swimming Saturday, l p.m. 
vs. Albion
•

ATA . e
ac Pittsburgh Nov. 16, 7:30 p.m.
Swimming Cross Country vs. Pittsburgh at NCAA District IV ~ Sarurday, 2:30 p.m. 
GLANCE • ·~
friday, 6 p.m. Saturday, 10:30 a.m. 





