Community responds to Martinez 
Earth to Mars? Earth to Mars? 
Students and friends ofthe University write 
The Jet Propulsion Lab has yet to make contact 
Monday
in lo express their displeasure with Gabriel 
with the Mars Polar Lander. which made its 
Martinez's column on gender relations. 
400 m.p.h. descent to the Red Planet Saturday. 
DECEMBER 6, 
Viewpoint . page 11 
News . page 9 
1999 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXI II NO. 63 HTTP://OBSERVER.N D.EDU 


Irish beat No. I Santa Clara, fall to UNC in final game 
See Irish Insider for full game coverage 

Power outage prompts closure of SMC campus 
response from security officials. A By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
McCandless Hall resident was Sainr Mary's Editor 
freed shortly after 1 :30 a.m. after 
being trapped on the first Iloor. 
Pow11r was restored to Saint A lloly Cross Hall resident Mary's Coll1~ge at 10 a.m. Friday remained trapped between the following an outage that left the second and third floor of the resi­College without dectricity for nine dence hall for more than two hours. Campus was closed Friday hours before it was determined it until I p.m. for faculty, staff and was too dangerous to remove her. students l'ollowing the outage. Resident assistants remained with 
Two wirns leading to an oil the victim throughout the evening switch in the main building north while security officials and of' Le Mans shorL11d al approxi­Montgomery El1wator Services mately I: 15 a.m. Friday, causing worked to free the woman. The a 4.1 U) volt outagt\, said John woman was freed shortly before 4 DeLee, director of Fa1.:ilities a.m. Friday. Friday. Security officials contacted 
Campus systems sustained no Koontz Wagner Electric shortly damages during thti outage. after the outage, and the company although voi1.:c mail systems worked throughout the evening to rnmainccl unavailable ror students restore power to campus. during the weekend. Campus olli­Regina Hall and Mornau Center cials hope to have services for the Arts were the only build­rnstored today. ings not affected by the outage, 
Emergency situations on cam­which left Saint Mary's residents pus prevented immediate investi­without heat, voice mail services gation into the causti of the power and computer network access. outage. Two campus residents Network access was restored to trapped in separate residence hall elevators prompted immediate see POWER/page 4 


Lecture exa01ines survivors 
"'Those who have plenty for their babies.
. Jewish women 
sell themselves for a crust, "Anxiety was a part ofhad children soon while the mother of many is their existence," said left to languish,"' said Feinstein, who has inter­
after Holocaust 

Feinstein, quoting 1 Samuel viewed many women who 
2:5. lived in the camps.
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 

The quote related to Jews "[Holocaust! survivors News Writer 
after the Holocaust because were drawn to each other ... living conditions were harsh this need to belong to some­While healthy German for many of them, especially one led men and women to women were avoiding preg­those living courtship," nancy immediately arter in displaced Feinst11in
"/Holocaust] survivors 
World War II, Jewish women persons s a i d . wanted to have children, (DP) camps were drawn to each other "Marriages said Margaret Feinstein, a for refugnes ... this need to belong to were being Germany History professor i n performed 
1 someone led men and
at Indiana University, in lec­Germany. every day. ture last Thursday. "[Jewish women to courtship. " The chil­Feinstein's lecture, enti­women] dren born tled "Hannah's Prayer: were con­represent­
Margaret Feinstein 
Jewish Women Holocaust cerned that ed now
Gennan History professor
Survivors in Germany After they would branches 
World War II," was part of not be able of the fami­
the Saint Mary's history to bear ly tree and 
department's celebration of children," a sense of 
History Week. which con­Feinstein said. "They had no continuity." 
cluded Friday. money. They didn't know There were 1000 births 
The title and topic of the where to go or what to do." per month in the DP camps lecture was based on a The diet in the camps was in 1946, said Feinstein. quote from the prayer of very poor, consisting of "The'ir persecution led Hannah, mother of the bread, soup and sometimes them to seek to recreato the prophet Samuel, who was coffee. Women resorted to family life of which they had barren before the birth of trade on the black market to her son. get milk and fresh produce 
see FEINSTEIN/page 4 
page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Monday, December 6, 1999 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Do you know vvhat I knovv? 
A personal e-mail. An emotional conversa­tion. A heated debate. A private moment shared between you, your significant other, 
and -the guy from the Office of Information Technology? In the words of the famous "Sesame Street" song, one of these things does not belong. 
It has come to my horri­fied attention that the University is reading and screening personal e-mails and abusing its access to them. One student has been recently expelled for possession of marijuana, but the only way the University knew about it was through its monitor­ing of tho student's per­sonal e-mail. Apparently 


Colleen Gaughen 
Viewpoint Editor 

the OIT people can and do read both incoming and outgoing e-mails from all accounts on the 
University's server. 
I don't know about you, but I find this highly disturbing. 
The University would claim that because it owns the server and pays for the transmission of e-mail, it should be entitled to such a blatant invasion of privacy. I say, we pay a hefty tuition that includes such services and should be enti­tled to a little respect. Our personal e-mails should be protected from this outrageous intru­sion the same way our old-fashioned, snail mail is protected. The United States Postal Service is prohibited by federal law from opening, tam­pering with or in any way intentionally mishan­dling letters and packages; what makes the University of Notre Dame Office of Information Technology exempt? 
Is nothing private anymore? It's bad enough that we have watchdogs in our dorms, dining halls and in the student section at the Stadium, but now they are monitoring our personal. pri­vate thoughts and feelings sent through e-mail. That letter I sent my sister about our family issues? They read it. That beautiful forward about friendship and women from my old roommate? They read it. And that sexy e-mail I sent my boyfriend?-Yep, they read that too. 
I feel completely violated. 
Although not the most romantic means of communication (I grieve the untimely death of the hand-written letter), e-mail is nevertheless by far the most effective. I understand that Off needs to monitor the volume of e-mails because a severe increase in volume would create seri­ous systems problems, and I also understand that they scan to prevent solicitors from obtain­ing our e-mail addresses. But just because they offer a great service at a good price doesn't give anyone license to invade people's privacy. Once again, the University is hiding behind legitimate reasons to mask its illegitimate and feeble attempts to create a totalitarian state. 
Ironically, one of the official conditions of OIT use prohibits the violation of privacy. I wonder, do they apply this same rule to themselves? Forget that Big Brother is watching. I'm more concerned about the University and its OIT. 
Today is the feast ofjolly old Saint Nicholas, a time of giving and judgement. I was going to put my shoe out, but I know the University would have checked its contents first. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Finn Pressly Amanda Greco Erin LaRuffa Graphics 
Maribel Morey Scott Hardy Sports Production Bill Hart Mark DeBoy 
Viewpoint Lab Tech Colleen Gaughen Ernesto Lacayo 
Th, Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday exccpr during exam and vac:atiot1 pctiod.s. Th~ Obs<:rver is: a member of che Associated Press. AH reproduction rights arc resc:rvcd. 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Monday  Tuesday  
. Session: Volunteeing  . Leture: "New  
after gradution. Sean  Directions in Complexity,"  
Maurer, Room 217,  Albert-Laszlo Barabasi,  
Debartolo, 6:30 p.m.  Room 138, Debartolo, 8  
. Celebration: "ACE Goes  p.m.  
Latin," featuring Sabor  . Prayer: "Jubilee Prayer  
Latino. Lafortune  Service," Basilica of the  
Ballroom. 9 p.m.  Sacred Heart, 10 p.m  

Wednesday 

. Dinner: Class of 2000 dinner, free pizza, Alumni Senior Club, 5 p.m. 
Thursday 
. 
RecSports: Ice skating. froe admission and skato rental, Joyce Center Ice Rink, 7 p.m. 

. 
Concert: Handel's Messiah, Chorale and Chamber Orchestra, Washington Hall, 8 p.m. 



Compiled from U-Wire reports

OUTSIDE THE DOME 


G~orgetown bookstore sues VarsityBooks.com 
WASHINGTON 

The Georgetown University Bookstore, as a member of tho National Association of College Stores has filed suit in Federal District Court against VarsityBooks.com, alleging that the company's discounts are "false and without factual basis." 
The suit alleges that VarsityBooks.com. an onlinc text­book retailer, falsely claims on its Web site that it offers textbooks at a 40 percent discount while, in reality. selling only a fraction of their books at the advertised discount. Further, the suit alleges that the firm's adver­tisements falsely imply that college bookstores overcharge students. 
The suit does not ask for monetary damages, but instead seeks that the court forbid VarsityBooks.com to promote discounts unless they iden­
"Our members are deeply concerned that students are being duped into believing they're saving 40 percent on textbooks when such claims are completely false." 
Brian Cartier National Association of College Stores 
tify "clearly and prominently, the true basis for the discount." NACS said through a press release. 
"Our members are deeply con­cerned that students are being duped into believing they're saving 40 percent on textbooks when such claims are completely false," NACS Chief Staff Officer Brian Cartier said in a press release. 
Bomb scare shakes Washington State 

PULLMAN. Wash. 
Firefighters responded to an alarm last Thursday and found a bomb threat posted in a hallway next to a fire alarm location. The Fire Department closed the building and police arrived on the scene along with students from parking services to restore order and keep the area clear while the building was searched. WSU police found no hint of a bomb and reopened the building. WSU police Capt. Mike Kenny and police Chief William Mercier were unable to provide details about where the note was placed or what it said, or if they had any suspects. Monty Cobb, a deputy prosecu­tor for Whitman County, said if the person who made the threat is caught, the perpetrator could face a charge of felony threat to bomb. The person could be fined up to $20,000 and sent to jail for as many as 10 years. "There is also a statute that says that even if it is a hoax then they are still guilty," Cobb said. Twelve classes were in session during the fire alarm and 25 classes were unable to meet as a result of the threat. 
LOCAL WEATHl;R 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather"forecast for daytime condilions and high temperatures 


q,Q,~p~Q (f ~ 4 

Sllowers T-storms Ra,n Flumes Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Pr&ss Graphf°csNet 
Jon Kaplan, vic.e president of com­munications and strategic planning for VarsityBooks.com. denied the allegations made by NACS. 
"The lawsuit that NACS has filed is completely without merit," Kaplan said."VarsityBooks.com has adver­tised up to 40 percent discounts, and we will continue to do so." 
Kaplan declined to go into the details of the case because of the ongoing litigation but did further assert that VarsityBooks.com would not change lts practices as of now. 
"What we [VarsityBooks.com] have brought is competition, choice, dis­counts and convenience VarsityBooks.com is going to contin­ue to do this," Kaplan said. President and CEO of VarsityBooks.com. Eric Kuhn also expressed his concern with the law­suit. 
Nazi group posts signs at 

U. of Minnesota 
MINNEAPOLIS 
A grainy black-and-white photo depicts an interra­cial couple walking hand in hand with the bold head­line, "Hey, white girl! Race mixing is a crime." The National Socialist Movement. a Nazi group posing as a University of Minnesota student organization, post­ed two letter-sized leaflets on a campus bridge this week. The leaflet implied the student group was a registered campus organization by listing a St. Paul Student Center address. Although the Nazi group has a mailbox at the student center, the group is not rec­ognized by the University. June Nobbe, director of the involvement center, said the U.S. Constitution requires the University to allow all groups regardless of ideology to become student organizations. "We have to abide by their freedom of speech and First Amendment rights," she said. "As long as they com­ply with the criteria, we must register them." Little is known about the group, except that at least one per­son involved is a University student. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Monday, Dec. 6. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

O 1999 Accuwaa.ther, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY Prllasure, 
@ @ C:J ~ ~ ~ [ID 0 ~
.

High Low Shl"lW~rs Rain T•.!'itt1nns F'lurri@s Snow rce Sunny Pt. CloudyCloudy 
-
Atlanta  52  34  Las Vegas  58  
Baltimore  60  36  Memphis  48  
Boston  59  36  Milwaukee  39  
Chicago  41  29  New York  58  
Houston  63  38  Philadelphia  59  

34  Portland  46  40  
35  Sacramento  56  38  
30  St. Louis  42  30  
36  Tampa  76  52  
36  Wash DC  62  38  

Monday, December 6, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 



Senior art exhibits open at SMC 
. Projects reflect personal triumphs, tragedies 
By NELLIE WILLIAMS 
News Wri,er 
Saint Mary's art majors Keri l.anchswocirdl and Mary Hobinson prPsPntnd !lwir snnior comprnhnnsive nxhibition Friday at the Mornau CcnL,w for tlw Arts. dnmonstrating their capacity l'or visual p11rceplion, imagination and nxprnssion. 
011 hugn l'rumcs of canvas, Lanchswe,irdt expressed tho l'ar-rnaching power of diseases in her family. 
As a child. Lm1chswm:rdt was ulTcctcd by hnr father's arthritis in that it prevenled lrnr from playing somn sports with him that ollwr children might nor­mally havn played with their fatlrnrs. 
"All distiases my family [have] affucted me in somn shape or form," said Lanchswcerdt. ''I dncidcid to do large paintings lrncausn the disnase ii.; small und microscopic, and the huge paintings rcprcsnnt the power of the disease. I used oils because I like the way they blend. They don't dry as easily. I wanted to get a l()t of emotion [in my pim:nsl. I hope tho pieces am pow11rful." 
Hobini.;on tried to rnflect on her lifo choices in her exhibi­tion, which coni.;ists of several garmnnts and outfits she put togethur. 
"Some [choices] were good, some were bad," she explained. "But even the bud choices I gained from." 
"In these garments I'd like to present both positivo and nega­tiV(1 role choices. They're called symbolic garments to represent roles that have been taken -­mother, father," said Robinson, whose father and husband wrro alcoholics. 
"I raised my children by myself:' Hobinson said. "[The. art j>rojectl brought up a lot of bad nrnmories. Evtrn after reflecting, though. I realize I'll never be a weak or defeated person." 
This close relationship the artists have with their work maku this a very important part of their lives, said Johnson Bowles, director of the Moreau Center. 
"They work very hard. This is vory important to them and tlrny typically have an emotion­al contact with their piece of work," he said. "The best part is how much of themselves they put into it. It's unique to have your own show as an under­graduate." 
Each student submitted a proposal to the art department the semester before exhibition. 
The materials, method and content of their artwork are all presented in a short paper and a "maquette," which is a small scale version of a piece of art­work, demonstrating propor­tion technique. 
When the proposal is accept­ed, the students work with an advisor. 
"They also spend some time talking with me in the gallery about presentation and profes­sional criteria of how to show work," Bowles said. "It is a solely individual project." 
The art department wants the students to be educated on how to be professional with their work. The department makes contracts with tho students and treats them as if they are pro­fessional artists. 
"Some students have even shown their senior composition projects in professional gal­leries, said Bowles. 
"It was a lot of time," said Lanchsweordt. "Each painting took roughly 12 hours. I built everything myself. It took everything from going to Lowe's to buy the wood to building the structure. It was an e-xpensive project." 
Robinson, meanwhile, spent time finding garments of cloth­ing and making garments com­pletely from scratch. 
"l dyed fabric, applied tex­tures and [did] surface design," said Robinson. 
Both Robinson and Lanchsweerdt have plans for what they would like to do after they graduate this semester. 
"I would like to either go into advertising o·r web design and do my painting on the side," said Lanchsweerdt. 
"I'd like to work on ceramics and photography," said Robinson, who also one day wants to be an art teacher and work in a gallery. 
WWW w 

-¥c US Qi¾.WWW L 
page 3 

THIS MADGRIGAL MOMENT 

Senate appoints alum to U.S. Circuit Court 
Special to The Observer 
U.S. District Judge Ann Claire Williams, a University trustee and alumna, has been confirmed by the U.S. 

The College of Science 
DISTINGUISHED SCHOlAR lecture Series 1 
FROM the DIAMETER 

of the WorldWide Web to KEVIN BACON 
New Oirer:tions In CompJex//!J 

Albert-Laszlo Barabas! 
Department a f Physics 
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1 
8:00 PM Debartolo Room 138 

Seasonal Affective Disorder 
Symptoms: Depression 


,~rmf}#o~rc~11tact.

J?ic$ity Coui~~ling ·
Energy loss 

Overeating 

Centera(631-7336 or 


Sleping problems 


www~nd.e.dul~swagner
lrristablility Difficulty in concentrating Craving foods with carbohydrates 
Senate as a member of the 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, making her one of the seven Notre Dame grad­uates currently sitting on the nation's second-highest court. 
A 1975 Notre Dame Law School graduate, Williams is the first African-American to serve on the 7th Circuit appeals court, which sits in Chicago, South Bend, and Milwaukee. She has been a federal judge on the U.S. District Court of the Northern District of Illinois since 1985. 
Williams currently serves as president of the Federal Judges Association, an 800­member organization of Article Ill judges, and from 1993-1997 was chair of the Court Administration and Case Management Committee of the United States Judicial Conference. 
A 1970 graduate of Wayne State University, Williams earned a master's degree in guidance and counseling from the University of Michigan in 1972. Before her appointment to the fed­eral bench, she served as an assistant U.S. attorney and chief of a criminal division. 
Williams is secretary of the Notre Dame Board of Trustees, to which she was elected in 1988, and she received an honorary dcgrne from the University in 1997. 
A week before Williams· confirmation, anotlrnr Notre Dame graduate, Charles Wilson, was sworn in as a member of the Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit. Formerly the U.S. Attorney in Tampa, Fla., Wilson earned a bachelor's degree in government and interna­tional studies from Notre Dame in 1976 and a juris doctor degree from the Notre Dame Law School in 1979. 
They join the ranks of grads Edward Leavy ('53), Paul Niemeyer ('77), Emilio Garza ('69), Daniel Manion ('64) and Paul Kelly ('Ci:{), all of whom servn on the nation's Circuit courts. 


page 4 The Observer . NEWS Monday, December 6, 1999 

'Zero tolerance' gets controversial test 
Associated Press 

fourteen-year-old freshman Branden Pieratt got a taste of Lakeland High School's "zero tolerance" policy against alco­hol abuse this fall when she took a drink from a friend's Gatorade bottle at a football game. 
Tho drink was spiked with alcohol, and Branden was expelled for a semester, despite her argument that she didn't know the booze was there. 
Her case illustrates the con­troversy surrounding this pop­ular approach tu school disci­pline: Some school adminis­trators and parents say public concerns about student safety require an unbending approat::h to students who vio­late certain roles. But others say common sense has disap­p_eared from the process. 
"The types of school vio­lence in the last two to three years has shaken all of us, especially administrators and school boards. We weren't I ready for that kind of vio­t· lence," said Russ Skiba, an 
I 
associate professor of educa­tion at Indiana University. "We look for things we per­ceive are going to solve the problem quickly." 
Branden, a cheerleader, was caught when she went to ask for bottled water from one of her coaches. The coach smelled the alcohol on her breath and alerted police, who performed a Breathalyzer test. 
Pieratt's mother, Holly, said her daughter's blood-alcohol content was 0.004 percent, well below the 0.10 percent . required to be legally intoxi­cated in'lndiana. 
Lakeland Superintendent Russell Hodges declined to 
talk about individual student 
disciplinary matters, But he 
said the LaGrange County 
school is "up front" about 
offenses and students arc 
aware of "the rules and 
expectation." 
Another problem cited with 
"zero tolerance" is inconsis­
tencies in how the policy is 
applied. 

In September, Jennings County High School volleyball player Ashley Riordan had a sHcond violation of the Panther Code of Conduct, which bars the use of tobacco. alcohol and drugs by athletes. 
She was suspended from the 
volleyball team but reinstated 
after an appeal to the 
Jennings County School 
Board. In her appeal, Ashley 
presented the results of a lie 
detector test, which showed 
that although she was at a 
party where akohol was 
served, she· did not drink. 
Some parents in the school 
district complained Ashley 
received preferential treat­
ment because her father, 
Steve Riordan, is the school's 
principal. 
Kerry Wisner's son Trent 
was suspended from the 
school's soccer team after also 
twice violating the code. 
Wisner's son wasn't allowed 
a second appeal to the School 
Board, and she isn't sure why 
Ashley got one. "All kids can 
say, 'I wasn't drinking,' " 
Wisner said. The bottom line 
with zero tolerance, despite its 
name, is that "some kids get ·punished and some kids don't," she said. Riordan refused to talk about his daughter's case. 
"She's been drug through 
the mud enough," he said. 
"She's 18. As a family, we 
want to move on." 
WE'·, WAK:E'. ,
. ' .. 






Tllw G-:fl.•·I)~­

ND AREA STORES: 
•1706 South Bend Ave (Walking Distance!)243-7738 •SR 23 & lronwood/277-7744 •Indian Ridge Plaza/271-1 n2 
•52577 US 31 N 

(North Village Ma11)277-1024 

By 1948, the situation Jews faced in the DP camps began to improve as the United States relaxed immigration quotas and Israel became indepen­dent. 
Feinstein is the author of four books and is currently working on a fifth. 

Feinstein 
continued from page I 
been robbed," Feinstein said. "In the Jewish DP camps, Hannah's prayer [for children] was answered." 


Power 
continued from page 1 

campus approximately one hour follow­ing the restoration of power, said Joel Cooper, director of Information Technology. E-mail services were restored at noon Priday. 
ON THE CATWALK 






Monday, December 6, 1999 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Arafat gives poet a pistol 
HAMALL/\1 L Wn:it. Bank 

F1111di11J.( off criticism of corruption in his ){Dwrnnwnl, l'al('stinian !cadPr Yassnr Arafat 011 Sunday gav,, a pistol to a poet and tolu him lo shoot him if' lw IJ1\trayPd the Palestinian pnopk. Tlw wry p!Pdgti ot' loyalty stood in sharp contrast to Arafat's harsh crackdown 011 lawmaknrs and int1!llecluals who l'or thl' lirst linw lrnvc nanwd him in conneclion with clmrgni, of rorruption, wastn and fraud in tho i>aJni,linian Authority. Five of the dissidents, jailnd for signing a manifesto last wenk ugninsl gov1•rnmPnt corruption, said th~y wen\ begi11ni11g a hu11gor strike Sunday to prntt,st tlwir inearcnrntion. Palestinian human rights groups and int1•ll<!ct11als insid(l and out­sicl1, llw l'alcstinia11 lcrriLorics have protested what they say is a violation of frncdom of spcuch. 
Terrrorists target U.S. company 
ELK GllOVE. Calif'. , Mary Wilcox just finished moving into her hmnl' a hall'-milti l'rom a huge propane stor­age facility, and now she wonders if she should pack up and !nave becuusn or the possibility ol' a terrorist attack. Two men worn in custody Sunday on fodnral weapons chargns while authorities investigated wlwther limy wern plolling to blow up the Suburban Propane fuel storage center. Court appoarances were scheduled Monday for Kevin Hay l'attnri,on, 42, of Camino, and Charles D1•1111is Kilns, 49. or Placcrvi!ln. They wern arrested following a yearlong Fill investigation into a potential threat against Suburban Propane and othur Sacranwnto-arna targnts, the U.S. Attorney's Office said. It did not identify the other lhrnate1wd sitns. The men arrested have militia connections, a source familiar with tht! probe told The Associated Press. 
Americans react to Y2K 
WASlllNGTON 

Tlrn U.S. official responsible f'or Y2K rnadi­rwss said Sunday he is confident there will be no catastrophic computer breakdowns but is concnrrwd public reaction lo any small prob­lems could provoke economic crises. "If we got a panic we could creatn a shortagH of all sorts of' things as wu go forward -either food, gas, pharmacnuticals," John Koskinen, the White llousn Y2K coordinator, said on CNN's "Late Edition." Koskinen said there were 110 signs so far that Americans wnre concerned mrnugh by tlrn hype surrounding the millennium bug that limy wnrn boginning to hoard supplies or n•move large sums from their bank accounts. "Our biggest concern is that we may have a whole suri(lS of otherwise manag1iable nvents om, at a lime but, particularly internationally, tlwrt• may be a number ol' them," Koski,wnsaid. 
liifr•tftlJMMiM
Dow AMEx: 
835.50 
JONES '2·1~ 
Nusd11q:
+247.12 
3520.63 -067.85 
NYSE:
1"t 
LJ 
646.73 •9.57 
S&P 500: C'om110site 14.33.JO 
Volume:

11286.18 •24.2(1 
907,000,000 VOLUME LEADERS . 

k2!1tMD:  IJ!s~I"  ~ ~Yliil  I s:•21  fftJ~f  
O£Lt CONPU1"tJl  DELL  . 0.81  . O. '725  U.ll  
cc"M,AQ COM'S'V"l"SR  OP~  +0.0  •O. 1225  26.06  
KIC'l!.OSOFT COkl'  M6FT  +l,38  +1, 307!1  j6 .1::1.  
AJ'IIUCA Ot,lttN'E  AOL  -l .02  -t. «:lOO  78. l8  
C'UCO 8U'J'l:IIB  CICQ  +J.20  •3. 01500  t5. 51  
f'ICO IHT.t. L'.I'D  nc  •,LU  ~1. l.2.1.S  J7.U  
OIU.CLC coat  OF.CL,  •'.L62  . l, 'T!S::15  78.H  
NCI WOJU,DCON HI  WCOH  +1.89  i>l,5035  10.u.  
urraL co•• FOC'll ¦ ENllANCKMN  ,me PCS&  +l.U +J,0 .1.:..  . l .1175 •t. 56::IS  78.69 , .,5  

orld 

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES 
CUBA 
page 5 


Associatrd Press 
HAVANA 
President Fidel Castro demanded Sunday that the United States return a boy rescued at sea to his father in Cuba within 72 hours, warning that the Cuban people were losing patience and soon would begin mass demonstrations. "There will be millions of people in the st.rcets demanding the bov's freedom," Castro said, according to state radio and television. "It is 

Iranian students p~rotest for freedom 
difficult to hold back the population with the state of irritation" generated by the case of 5-yea.r-old Elian Gonzalez. 
Castro accused the U.S. government of kidnapping Elian, who was found cling­ing to an inner tube float­ing off the coast of Florida. He promised a "battle for world opinion" to bring the child home. In an unusual move Sunday, the Cuban government stationed sev­eral dozen soldiers outside the U.S. Interests Section in Havana -the American 

government's Cuban mis­sion. 
The reason for the move was not clear; generally there are only about four soldiers outside the mis­sion. Calls requesting com­ment from the mission were refor red to Washington. 
State Department spokesman James P. Rubin said last week that Cuba had asked the U.S. mission in Havana on Nov. 27 for the child's retum. But the case was referred to the Florida state courts 
tions." Powerful hard-lin­e rs, locked in a power struggle with rival reformists led by President 
Mohammad Khatami, have shut down four pro­reform newspapers in the past year: including Nouri's. Several writers and intellectuals have been harassed, jailed and killed. 
Nouri was the most pop­ular reformist running for next February's legislative elections. Ifo was widely expected to sweep the polls and bid for the Parliament speaker's posi­tion, currently held by a hard-liner. Nomi's convic­tlon bars him from the because they take prece­dence in custody disputes, he said. 
Greeting tlrn Cuban dele­gation at the airport upon their return from the World Trade Organization meet­ing in Seattle, Castro blamed the U.S. govnrn­ment for the boating acci­dent that killed Elian's mother and 10 others. 
The overloaded power­boat they had been travel­ing in sank during the 90­mile crossing to Florida. The boy was found Nov. 25 just off Fort Lauderdale. 
polls, but Khatami has been trying to get him released. Meanwhile, the Office of the Military Prosecutor said Sunday that seVt~ral police officnr were under investigation in last .July's stud,1nt unrest that followed the closure of a leading reformist newspaper. 
The closurn of Uw Salam daily had led to stndent 
.protests. Wht)n the stu­dents rnturncd to thuir dormitorins. they Wfire beaten by vigilantes backed by police forces, triggering the worst unrnst since Iran's 1979 revol u­tion. 
Associated Press 
TEHRAN 
Hundreds of Iranian university students, some with their mouths taped shut, staged a peaceful rally Sunday against efforts by Islamic hard-lin­e rs to curb freedom or expression, Some 1,000 students took part in the rally, organized by the Islamic Students' Association or the Allameh Tabatabaie University in Ctmtral Tehran. The pro­testers gathered in a uni­versity courtyard. Some had their mouths taped 
shut, with the word "silence" written in Farsi over the tape. 
Others carried portraits of prominent pro-reform Iranians, like former inte• rior minister and journalist Abdollah Nouri, who was given a five-year jail term by a hard-line court last­month on charges that included religious dissent. 
"Unfortunately, limits cm free speech are bncoming a part of our society," said Nazila Sattari before tap­ing her mouth. "The hard­liners did this to Mr. Nouri for political reasons, so that he could not run in the parliamentary elec­

The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Monday, December 6, 1999

Associated Press 
WATERLOO, Iowa 
Promising an administra­tion that would "set a tone in the air" promoting racial unity, Democrat Bill Bradl_ey preached a message of racial progress Sunday dur­
ing services "Today it's not a matter at a Baptist 
ofhotels or restaurants
church in 
that block your entry, b~lt
eastern Iowa. 
Bradley, something more subtle." who is chal­lenging Vice 
Bill Bradley
President Al Gore for the presidential candidate 
Democratic nomination, recalled growing up in Missouri during the 1950s, when two of bis American Legion baseball teammates were barred from restau­rants because they were black. 
~Today it's not a matter of hotels or restaurants that block your entry. but some­thing more subtle," Bradley 
said. 
Bradley spoke to about 80 
Associated Press 
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. 
In a nation of fast food restaurants, cash machines and even drive-through liquor stores, the city's Fir~t Church of the Nazarene is finding people like their reli­gion quick and convenient as well. 
This week, the church is closing its parking lot to set up a drive-through Nativity scene for those who want to experience the "true meaning of Christmas," but don't want to leave their cars. 
"I suppose some people will 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
E-retailers are turning to live online chats and other interactive customer services for the holidays as more shoppers abandon the mall for the Web. But it's hardly the warm-and-fuzzy experi­ence some people crave. 
Online shoppers fed up with e-mails that go unanswered and 800 numbers that eter­nally ring busy are demand­ing instant assistance at the click of a button. 
"People get frustrated with the level of customer service available," said Seema Williams, an e-commerce analyst for Forrester Research in Cambridge, Mass. "They're in a hurry." 
Two-thirds of all cyber­shopping carts are abandoned before transactions are com­plete. she said, so Web opera­tors that wero preoccupied with getting sites up and run­ning a year or two.ago are now honing in on customer service. · The apparel giants Lands' End and Eddie Bauer are among the largest sites that use interactive software con-church members at Corinthian Baptist Church, touting his goals of extending benefits to 44 million Americans without health insurance, building ·after­school programs for children 
and creating an 
administra­tion that would put r a c i a I progress at· the forefront. 
The for­mer New J c r s e y senator said he w o u I d m a k e diverse 
appointments at the federal level, support affirmative action and create an admin­istration that would help eliminate racial division. 
''I'm going to do that by the tone i.n the air of the admin­istration," Bradley said. "If I'm president and you want to please the buss,. you're going to show that in your life, in your job ... you'll pro-
feel it is tacky, and I suppose intellectually it is," said Carla Johnson, professor of com­munications at St. Mary's College in Notre Dame, Ind. "But from the standpoint of thev have a message that they want to get to as many people as they can ... it's a really good idea." 
The church expects about 10,000 people to take the 15­min ute drive, said Jane Krutz, a member of the church's board of directors. 
Since the church started the tradition 12 years ago, the five-day exhibit has grown to about 140 costumed characters and a stable-full mote racial understanding." 
following his speech, Bradlev took questions from church members who asked him to make improvements in education and after-school programs. 
Bradley's speech was part of threo:day campaign swing through Iowa. where he plans to spread his message on health care and labor issues. 
In an interview with The Associated Press, Bradley said his ideas were driving ·the campaign and resonating with voters, prompting criti­cism from Gore. 
"He's in attack-mode but 
his attacks are getting a 
counter-reaction from those 
who want a politics of posi­
tive and don't want to have 
politics as usual, where you 
end up with an election 
where instead of voting for 
SomeoDe, you're Voting 
against someone," Bradley 
said. 
"I think they're demon­strating a deep lack of confi­dence in some of their poli­cies and positions," he said. 
Church offers 'drive-thru' holiday 
of animals, from donkeys to hens. 
Motorists pass through nine scenes illuminated with can­dles, each telling a part of the Christmas story. In a scene where shepherds watch their flocks by night, an angel is suspended in the air. 
Many churches have had to turn to secular-style market­ing efforts to attract a crowd, Johnson said. 
"They're using the channels that people are comfortable with. They're giving you something you want to see and at the same time getting the message across," she said. 
·Lack of help angers online shoppers 

GOP candidates prepare for debate 
Associated Press · 
WASHINGTON 

GOP presidential candidate Steve Forbes said Sunday he has been clear in letting voters know what he stands for, unlike front-run­ner George 
W. Bush, and hopes for "a real inter­change" among the six candi­dates in 

Bush

Monday's debate so people can judge for them­selves. 
Scheduled to join Forbes and Bush in Phoenix are Gary Bauer, Sen. Orrin Hatch of Utah and Alan Keyes. The state's senior senator, John McCain, will participate via satellite from New Hampshire, where he is 
campaigning. 
McCain led Bush 39 per­"Compred to the other folks cent to 31 
who are out there, [Bush] 

percent in 
Arizona in a does not have any special 
late October quality or ability that poll by the 
makes him an outstanding

M e d i a 
choice for the

Research 
Program . at Republican Party. " Arizona State University. 
Alan Keyes

cent of the presidential candidate voters were undecided. 
Bush, in his debate debut, 
the pressure. 

"I do want a campaign of issues and ideas and I think I've got some very exciting ideas out there and I hope that we have a chance in these future forums and debates," he said on Al3C' "This Week." 
"I hope we have more Oexibil­ity so we can have a real inter­change so the people can seo whal we stand for. I've put out there ... what I stand ror and l wish that George Bush on sor,ld of these issues would do the same, and I hope that will come out in these future debates." 
Bush spokesman Ari Fleischer said later that Bush "looks for­ward to healthy debate and lols of interaction with the other candidates." 
"He's going to keep his remarks hopeful and positive and discuss his plans on taxes, education and Social Security," said Fleischer. 
Keyes, appearing on "Fox News Sunday," said he took 
heart from the candi­dates' per­formances Thursday. 
"The one thing I saw the other night tha.~ was clear, he said, was that "Bush does not stand out in this f i e I d . Compared 


to the other folks who are out there, he does not have any spe­cial quality or ability that makes him an outstanding choice for the Republican Party. Nothing." 
necting a customer service representative to a shopper via on-screen "chat," a two­way dialogue that appears in a tiny box when the shopper clicks on an icon. 
The agent then synchro­nizes her computer screen with the customer and can "push" pages of the Web site with the requested informa­tion before the shopper'_s eyes, in addition to answer­ing questions about sizing, availability and billing. 
"It works, and it makes cus­tomers happy," said Bill Bass, vice president of e-commerce for Lands' End, which added chat and other live service options in September and has heavily promoted them offline. 
It works sometimes, coun­tered Bob Chatham, another Forrester analyst focused on e-commerce. LivePerson.com, 
· one of the companies that sells the chat service, tracks the live interactions and says about 35 percent of customers who use it buy after the expe­rience. 
~~tdeZ>uuea~aH,~~ 
tUt-fu2lat~. 

drew fire Thursday night from his rivals during a candidate forum in New Hampshire on Social Security, abortion and tax cuts. Forbes hopes to keep up 
WOOL SUITS 
$249.00 

www.droeges.com LaPorte, IN 
219-362-3615 

Monday, December 6, 1999 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
SOUTH AFRICA ISRAEL 
Associa1cd rre,s 
CAPE TOWN 

The Dalai Lama on Sunday called for lwo follow Nobel laurealns -former South J\l"r ica n Prnsi don t Nelson l\1and nlu and Archbishop Dnsmnnd Tutu -to mediate talks bntw1rnn Tibetan lead­ors and China to resolvo a 40-ycar dispute. 
"Thoy can make a contribu­tion, of' course, no doubt," he said in an inl(irview on SJ\BC t1dcvision. "I personally would appreciate" such an offer. 
Tlw Dalai Lama is in South Af'rica lo allend the l'arliamnnt of World Heligions, which began W<Hhinsday. 
l.11.lcr in the day, Manddu spok!-to :1,000 rnligious lmul­NS and tixperts at the cnnt'Pr­c ncc. lie said rcligiun will play a "crucial role" in the 1wxt enntury to meet the challungns of povtirly, con­flict. abusn of women and childrnn. /\IDS and onviron­muntal destruction. 
· 
; • • ."" 

Peres: Officials made 
Dalai Lama calls for mediation 
Mandela received an award the Dalai Lama for a private 

Contra deal agreement 
from Ela Gandhi. grand­meeting with South African 
daughtflr of Mahatma President Thabo Mbeki. They Gandhi. the assassinated charged last week that leader who led India to inde­Mbeki's insistence on only 

Associated Press wrndcnce in 1948. meeting him as part of a He did not mention the situ-group of religious leaders 
JERUSALEM ation in resulted 
Former Israeli Prime Tibet. from pres­
Minister Shimon Peres revealed rare details about
Chinese "/don't want to create sure from 

the Iran-Contra affair Sunday,troops occu­Lhe Chinese 
any embarrassment, 

saying that he and two other l 950, send­any inconvenience ment. 
pied Tibet in govern­

former Israeli pre­
ing the to anybody." Li Peng, 

m i e r s and others Chinese 
Dalai Lama No. 2 in the 

unani­fleeing into communist 
mously
Dalal Lama


nxilc in India. China claims that Tibet is within its borders. but Tibetan exiles are seek­ing autonomy for their coun­try. 
The Dalai Lama said in the interview that he was not seeking independence for Tibet. In the past, he has advocated autunomy that would preserve Tibetan cul­ture, religion and language. 
Controversy has surround­ed a request by supporters of 
,: ~U;·.-,~R}11:~li~..A~·.:S.:..,':~ 
• • ..... Jltl'. ... ~.t~~ 
from the office of Yaakov Nimrodi, one of three Israeli arms traders who brokered the deal in which U.S. weapons were sent to Iran via Israel. Part of the profits were funneled to anti-Sandinista insurgents in Nicaragua known as Contras. 
Ile defended Israel's partic­ipation in the affair, saying it was the joint decision of then­Defense Minister Yitzhak Rabin, then-Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir and himself. 
"The.re were three people, the most experienced the most responsible. and we did it unanimously," he said. 
Peres, who is now Regional Cooperation Minister. said that while the request to bro­ker the deal came from U.S. security agents, Im discussed Lhe deal with Heagan and had no idea that then-Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger and then-Secretary of State ~eorge Shultz were not fully mformed about the operation. 
"I didn't know there was a dispute among them," said Peres, who was Foreign Minister at the time. "It was the surprise of my life when I later found out that Shultz and Weinberger didn't know." 
Both those officials claimed they were ignorant about most of the deal.· 
hierarchy, 
recently vis­
ited South Africa, which just recently opened diplomatic relations with the country. 
The Dalai Lama shrugged off the issue when he spoke to reporters Saturday in Durban. 
"I don't want to create any embarrassment, any inconve­nience Lo anybody," he said. "If the leader should find it a little inconvenient. then that is no problem for me." 

agreed  on  
participat­ 
ing in  the  
d  e  a  l  .  
Appearing on a talk  Peres  
show  on  
Israel  TV,  Peres  also  

expressed shock that then­President Reagan withheld information from top U.S. offi­cials about tho controversial deal to sell arms to Iran in the mid-l980s. 
The weapons, including anti-tank missiles, were sent to Iran in exchange for Iran's agreement to work for the release of U.S. hostages held in Lebanon by pro-Iranian Shiite Muslim extremists. At the time, both Israel and the United States publicly con­demned arms sales to Iran. 
The affair resurfaced last week, when police found doc­uments and tapes on the deal 

.~jiittfil;.f?J!~!~~1i1.ffiJ~!{i~~;1}~;Jtt:;1t,~, 

Room 012, laFortune Student Center (lower level) 
./-.<-·Hr-.-f're]r::·t~l'i-~:~ to.·Ttfr:s··{i;s A-~~ffrw1:~c 
:{N:C1·-t1.;·A'/'.f(t'i(C-_::W·cfid:i ~-_-_,.'i:fu r.--:•::---:·. 
-.. ~:!Illifl~,{Jf.lll:,,c 


THE TASTY CHICKEN CLUB IS HERE TO STAY. 
One bl!e or the dellclous Chicken Club, and you'll always crave tne navor of its all-wntte-meat chieken topped with crispy bacon, fresh lenucEl and tomato and mayonnaise. And that's no problem, because now Ihle uttra-!!atisfy1ng sandWich iS here to stay at BURGER KING~ So come on In and Indulge \/Wr craving. 
The Huddle• ll!Fa1uw Studwlt Ce-1'81' PARTICIPATION MAY VARY. 

lul chance to ship lhose holidily qlfts to urlve by Chrlslmu. 
Holiday Hours 
Mon-Wed 1fam-5,30pm Er 8,30pm-12mld Thursdilys 1fam-5,30pm frldilys 1fam-3,30pm 
NEEDS COMMISSIONERS! 
Pick up your applications outside #315 LaFortune from November 29th -December 8th 

Applications must be returned by December 8th 
Questions? Call 1-6028 or e-mail us at 
IT JUST TASTES BETTER~ 
www.burgerkir,g,corn 

BKSTR.l@nd.edu 


TLe CLallenge of Juhilee: Reconciliation and Renewal 
Jubilee Prayer Service 


i~m -fl 
ij1>·
Jps
jf,j:h 
oi~flie 
./l rdI
i I
L 
n · . , LIIIU~~ the Lor'· ·. 
" I
Las anJlted me; 
r~\l~i~J'1knt me to ki 
·--•r;;~i-: 
tidin~s t. 
. :; 
. ! :-:~· 
::: .):Ji;: 
1 
::•• :;: 
fl·J~&l~tfhte#'-t~i:thcf ;;l~t!l!l 
. . . . -: ;;:·::::·~. :-:-:: ' .... 

-·--::;~~-;-~;~~/i.ii\W/t:;: 
•· • . •· 

i::••:·}1 i 1::-:::-:·:; .j_:: 

outside the Holy Year Doors 
@ the Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Join us at 

9:45pmon Tuesday, Dec. 7th 
@ the Holy Year Doors outside the Basilica 
prior to the 10 pm Advent Pennance Service 
for a prayerful reflection on the meaning of forgiveness and Reconciliation in our lives as individuals and as a society in light of the coming of the Great Jubilee of the Year 2000. 
-


CENTER l'OR
O\MPUS SOCIAL CONCERNS
MINISTRY 
Monday, December 6, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Doctor: Sledders need hellllets 
AssociaicJ I'res< 
WASIIINGTON 

Wlwn Urn sleds come out, thn hikes go away. But a physician who clrnckl'd fig­unis on lrnad injuries rnsult­ing from s!c~dding thinks part of the bike nquiprrnrnl should 
stav. 
It's the lwhncl. 
If Amnrica's kids wcur he!-• nrnts when thoy sl1id, thou­sands or head injurins each ynar could Im avuidod, said llr . .John H. Tongue or Tualntin. Orn. 
"llnad injuriPs from sled­ding arti nirtainly pre• vcnlahln," said Tongue. who studied slcd i11_jurins l'or the 
Am nri can  Acad(~ my  of  
Ortl10paodic Surgeons.  
Data  co ru p iIed  h y  tlin  

Consumnr Product Safety Commission show that 
around 7,000 sledders ag(is 
I 6 am! he low urn ta.k1in to 
hospital emergency r()oms each year to be treated for head injuries. "!:orly-three percent am brain injuries and a third am serious, so you are talking about a snri­ous problem," Tongue said. 
Other types of helmets also coul<l prevent injury, but bike helmets am cheap. commonly available and capable of doing the job, Tongue said. "Bicycle crashes occur at higher speeds than sledding injuries," he said. 
Tho risk probably is greater among younger kids. whose necks ar.e weak and heads are large comparod with the rest of their bodies, Tongue said. Besides. the younger kids are newer to sledding and probably arc not paying as much attention as they should to such daugers as tlrn s It~ d d ers hc hind th lHn . he said. 
J\lthough hike helmets 
weren't created for sledding protection, there are similari­ties in the types of accidents. Kids are striking something, going forward and tumbling off. Tongue feels sure the hclmnls would be proteclivA. 
Parents would have to make some adjustments in the bike helmets to make them fight right and keep lheir kids' heads warm. how­ever. 
A cloth cap -possibly a tight tleoce -could be worn under the helmet to keep body heat from escaping through the helmet's vents. Tongue said. 
Aud the straps might have to be readjusted to be sure the helmet fits properly with a cap inside. If the helmet is too tight, it may be time to buy a new one -hut because helmets commonly can be found for $30 or less, that's no IJig deal, Tongue said. 

Utah authorities look for runaways_ 
A,socia1cd l're,s 
Si\LT !.!\KE CITY, Utah 

l'olicn using bloodhounds searched tlrn rocky soutlmrn Utah cl<i1wrl on Sunday for s1w1rn ll\Pllagnrs who allegedly bPat a counsl'lor unconscious whiln tlmy wnro on a camping trip li,r troubled youth. 
The s<Wl\11 had stol1in radios lo monitor police communica­tions. woof coats and blank1\ts, and onH-day ration packs of food, authorities said. 
They 11cd on Saturday near CHdar City, about 220 miles south of Salt Lake City. 
"We have approximately 3,500 square miles of an 
unforgiving, hostile territory." Red Cliffs Ascent Inc., one of said Iron County Sheriff David several southern Utah outlit­"Ducln" Benson. "If they get _ters that teach troubled 
wnt. they're in ma! trouble. But thcy'rn all from Lhe East Coast. so I don't know if they rocognizc how hostile this environmnnl is." 
The boys are from as far away as Texas, Connecticut, Pennsy"lvania and Nnw York, Benson said. 
Saturday. their first night of freedom, temperatures fell to 6 degrees. i\nd a storm was expected to roll in Sunday night. 
The boys. between the ages of 14 and 16, were on a camping trip sponsored by 
youths survival skills. Company officials refused to comment. 
Eight boys allegedly sur­prised two counselors who were camping with them about 20 miles northwest of Cedar City. 
The boys beat 23-year-old Kirk St()ck with sticks and tried to break his legs, Benson said. They allegedly struck Stock in the head and knocked him unconscious and later bound him with duct tape. 
Next, the group allegedly 

$ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 
$ SUMMER RESEARCH GRANTS $ 


$ for Undergraduates 
$ and 
$ SEED MONEY GRANTS 
$ 
for Graduate Students 

$ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 
Several grants are awarded each year

$ 
by the Kellogg Institute 

$ 
for up to $3,000

$ $ 
$ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ -$ $ $ $ $ $ 

$  Don't miss this opportunityto do research abroad!  $  
$  $  
$  For program descriptions and forms visit  $  
$ $  www.nd.edu/~kellogg/ or 216 Hesburgh Center  $ $  
$ $  Undergraduates: For further info contact Prof. Michael Francis at l-5203  $ $  
$  or 110 Hurley Bldg.  $  

$ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 
No word from Mars 
probe for third day 
Associated Press 
PASADENA, Calif. 
NASA antennas listened in vain Sunday for a signal from the Mars Polar Lander and mis­sion ot'ficials acknowledged that, after Lhrce days of silence, time was running out in the effort to contact the craft. 
"Clearly lhe team is getting more frustralPd. certainly. and more tense about all of this," said operations manager Hichard Cook. 
The $165 million lander was supposed to have signaled immediately after Friday after­noon's touchdown about 500 miles from the Martian south pole. 
Fa-ilure of the Mars Polar Lander would be a double blow to NASA's Jct Propulsion Laboratory, still smarting from the September loss of its sibling spacecraft, the Mars Climate Orbiter. 
Mission managers worked on eliminating simple failure sce­narios one by one. Rut they conceded if contact has not been established before mid­week, it was increasingly unlikely to have success with what would then involve more complex failure scenarios. 
"When you start stacking 
-if this thing "Clearly the team is 
ri<id aboard

has to fail and 
getting more frustrated, the lander.
then this thing 
Tho craft

has to fail and certainly, and more tense 
w a s

then this thing 
about all of this. " 
designed Lo

has to fail to 
communi­

get into this 
cate directly
Richard Cook

circumstance 
with Earth 

-then you're NASA operations manager 
definitely in extra time," Cook said. "We're not there yet. I think we will be, come Tuesday morning." 
Sunday's first communica­tions window opened at 10:50 
a.m. PST and closed 10 minutes later without any transmission from the surface of the Red Planet. 
The lander, if working prop­erly, was supposed to have switched radios to relay a signal through NASA's orbiting Mars Global Surveyor. But the map­ping spacecraft only sent its own data and none from the lander. 
Sunday's only other commu­nications opportunity. using the original radio, was scheduled for 9:40 p.m. PST to 11:55 p.m. PST. 
Lack of any signals since shortly before Friday's sched­
ulod landing left mission offi­
cials with hope only that the lit­
tle craft survived the touch­
down and, on its own, was lak­
ing steps to establish contact. 
Mars Polar Lander could have gotten into trouble simply by .setting down in diflicult terrain. 
"Landing on Mars is vory 
hard -and it's the part whero 
you're landing that's really 
hard,'' said Cook. "It doesn't 
take much to have problems." 
Two tiny probes designed to 
fall separately from orbit and 
plunge into the surface also 
failed to send signals. Sarah 
Gavit. the project manager for 
the probes, said that if tlrny did 
not make contact by late 
Sunday night it would bu 
unlikely to believe communica­
tion would ever be nstablishcd 
with them. 
Controllers contimrnd to oper­
ate on the assumption that the 
landing was successful because 
the spacecraft was in exccllont 
condition just prior to entry and 
analysis showed its trajectory 
was good. 
Engineers have theoriznd that 
the craft set down in a position 
that has kept its dish antnnna 
from pointing at Earth, or that 
it settled into a soft surface. 
Sunday's first communication 
window was based on a contin­
gency pro­
gram car­
through a 
directional 
dish anten­na. But its programing included instructions in case there was a failure of the power amplifier for its "X-band" transmitter ­the one intended for Earth com­munications. 
The program required the lander to switch to a non-direc­tional UHF radio if it had not received instructions from Earth by Sunday. The orbiting Mars Global Surveyor was lo listen for the UHF broadcast and relay it to Earth immedi­ately. 
NASA said that if the commu­nications blackout continued past the weekend, commands would be transmitted lo instruct the lander -if it was opera­tional -lo begin switching between redundant systems lo try to signal Earth. 
The lander was also pro­
w 
t r 
s 
n 

Fudge-HOUSI.COII Free Fudge, check nout.  grammed to keep track of ho long it has been since it was las contacted by Earth. and afte six days to assume there wa. some type of failure and bugi switching between backups or its own.  
University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents George Frideric Handel's IVIESSIAH University of Notre Dame Chorale & Chamber Orchestra 8:00 p.m. Thursday, December 9, 1999 Friday, December 10, 1999 Washington Hall Open to the public. Admission: $6 Reserved Seats; $3 Students &Seniors Tickets available at Lafortune Box Office, 631-8128.  

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

page 10 BSERVER Monday, December 6, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Bux Q, Norrc Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Norrc Dome, IN 46556 
EorroR IN CHIEF 
Michelle Krupa 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogero  
A.ssr. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Perelle  

NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen G~ughe11 SPORTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler 
SCENI: EDITOR: Michael Vanega~ SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EorrOR: Kevin Dalum 
ADVERf!SINC MANAGER: Bryan Lmz 

Ao DESIGN MANAGER: l:lret Hudar SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Michael Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kushro 
CONTROLLER: Timothy Lme GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENEll.i\L INF0..............631-7471 FAX............................................................ 631-6927 Al>VE,RTISING.....................................631-6900/8840 
observcr@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF........................................63I-4542 l'vlANAGING EDITOR/A=. ME....................631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE.. .......................................631-5313 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT.................................................63 1-5303 
observer.viewpoinc. l@nd.edu SroRTS ........................................................ 631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu 
ScENE.........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S .............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOT0........., ..............................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB .ADMIN!STRATORS .................631-8839 
lttE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web sire at http:!lobserver.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sports, features and opinion columns, as well as carroons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for
weather for up-to-the 
weekly student reviews
minute forecasts 
online features for spe­
advertise for policies 
and rates of print ads 
cial campt:5 coverage 
about The Observec
archives ro search for 
to meet the editors and
articles published after 
staff
August 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary"s College. Editorial coment. including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves che righr to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofrhe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and 11ot necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available !O all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed ~nd must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Ohsm,er policies should be direct­ed to Editor in ChiefMichelle Krupa. 


Debunking the h Ype 2K 
Every week on my radio show on WVFI, l do what I call a "Millennium Update," during which l talk about some weird, strange or otherwise idiotic thing that has to do with the year 2000. For the half-dozen . or so of you who've actually heard my show, you know. For the rest of you, here's a brief primer. 
Calling this impending New Year's "the dawn of the new millen­nium" is wrong on two counts. The millennium begins in 2001. I won't get too purist on this, since we find 2000 more special because ofthe fact that it will be the first time in 1000 years that the year won't start with a 1, and plus, we love round numbers. It's a moot point, anyway, because we know have scientific evidence that whoever first dated Christ's birth at the year 0 was off. Jesus was actually born in 4 or 5 Before Christ, which means we're get­ting all stoked to ring in the year 2004 or 2005. Kind of takes some of the · starch out of it, doesn't it? This is also why it's moronic to think that 2000 will be the year God destroys the earth. If it were, we wouldn't have lived past 1996. 
But enough of that. Let's get on to the dumber stuff. The year 2000 has been, more than anything else, a huge mar­keting ploy. M&M's have been declared "the official candy of the new millenni­um" for almost two years now. 


Cheerios is making a millennium spinoff in which they have 2's in with the O's. Wait, did I say "Cheerios"? I meant Spaghetti-O's. No, I meant both. There's Millennium Twinkies, Millennium Fruit Loops, the Mi-loony­um at Subway and Act II Microwave Popcorn, "the microwave popcorn of the new millennium." What, is the pop­corn Y2K-compliant? If it were, you wouldn't need a microwave, would you" 
Ah, yes, Y2K. Did you see "Y2K: The Movie" on NBC a couple of weeks ago? That's okay, no one else did, either, except me. It won't be as bad as that irresponsible film says that it will. I have reasons why I believe that Y2K is a lot of hYpe-2K. 
First, I bought a computer in 1992. It has Windows 3.1. It sucks. About three or four years ago, I got curious as to whether or not it would accept dates after the year 2000, unlike my VCR. (Don't worry, that VCR has made its trip to the great Radio Shack in the sky.) I reset the date to 11:58 p.m., Dec. 31, 1999, and in a couple of minutes. it read 12:01 a.m., Jan. 1, 2000. Now, if my computer, which probably would get whipped by an Apple Ile, is Y2K-compli­ant, I imagine most of the computers in the world are. 
Second, Bill Gates is estimated tu be worth $70 billion. Problem is, most of it is tied up in Microsoft stocks. If, on Jan. 1, 2000, almost every Microsoft comput­er in the world does nothing but state "Abort, Retry, Fail?" Gates' fortune will be vaporized. I have a feeling he'll spend a little quid if that's what he needs to do to get the job done. 
Third, here's a short list of all the 
things that are Y2K-compliant: most of 
the U.S government, including the j2 
Pentagon and the State Department, the Social Security Administration and the Internal Revenue Service (damn it, if there was just one thing that Y2K could wipe out); the New York Stock Exchange; and Meijer, where I am so privileged to be employed. Therefore,. we will all have a world tilled with basic human necessities. Now, I do have a worry or two that we might have a dip in stocks because computers in other nations may nut be as Y2K-compliant. But I don't think that the global finan­cial market will suffer a meltdown because the Pakistani market has a blip. 
However, there are still some people who are pushing the panic button. Some jerk has been incessantly spam­ming my e-mail address for almost three months, saying that Y2K is the end of the world. Apparently, he's the only one who's seen some verse of Revelations that says that the world will end. He also believes that he's the only one who truly understands the uni­verse, therefore he should be made the head of NASA. If I had my way, I would put him in a straightjacket in a rubber room and watch him go insane on New Year's, but that's just me. 
Those are just some of my pet peeves. I don't write this to try to be a buzzkill. By all means, go nuts on New Year's Eve. Party like it's 1999. We've earned it for putting up with all of this stuff. 
Mike Marchand is an junior English major. His column appears every other Monday and his e-mail address is M archand.3@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 


SCOTT ADAMS 
REMEl"'\BER, YOU CAN'T SPELL COMPLIANCE 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'The first problem for all of us, men and women, is not to learn but to unlearn." 
Gloria Steinem co-founder of MS Magazine 

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE Monday, December 6, 1999 BSERVER page 11 
' 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Martinez's 'arrows' miss the mark 
Martinez a danger to academia 
I hopu that most students who read Gabriel Martinez's recent r.olumn. "Be Aware of the Signs You Send to Men" (12/2). are intel­ligr.nl enough to recognize how offensive and ignorant this column is. This article is not only an affront to women, to whom Mr. Martinez addresses it, but tu men as Wflll. 
First. it may surprise Mr. Martinez to know that not all women choose their clothes with men in mind. My hope is that most women on this campus, whether they wear "beautiful clothes that don't rnvmLI anything" or "tight, revealing clothes" (or sweat pants. for that matter). do so because these clothes are comfortable. func­tional, ur just fun. Thal is. I hope women wear clothes because they lik<l them, n()t bocause they antidpato a certain reaction from mnn. Purthtir, rPgardless of how women dress or why they dress in certain ways, Mr. Martinez and other men remain responsible for any assumptions Uwy might make and feelings they might have ahuut the "signals" these women are sending. 
SHr.oncl, just as I hope that women on this campus would recog­niw that the "good girl/bad girl" dichotomy with which Mr. Martin!'z prt!sents th!)ln is false, I would also hope that the men on Lhis campus would rncognize that the "good guy/pig option" is no less insulting. 
Finally, and mosi importantly, I would like to add that as a fellow gra<luato studont, I am horrified by the thnught that Mr. Martinez may be in a position to grade tho paperi; of, or even to teach, fomalfi stud1mts. I cannot imagine how the views of women which he presents in this article do not affect tho way in which he assess­es the performance of female students in class. Images of women that am as stnreotyped as those presented by Mr. Martinez (the age-old virgin/whore dichotomy to hr, precise) continue to make it dillicult for wonwn to be treated fairly and r,qually in the class­room and in their professional lives. If Mr. Martinez does have any grading or l!mching rnsponsibilitios, his viows, expressed in such a public forum, should be a serious concern to his department and a caution to any future employers. 
Maria Malkiewicz 
Ph.D. Candidate, department oftheology December 3, 1999 

There are more kinds ofmen than 'pig' and 'good guy' 
In onn fell swoop, Gabriel Martinez could send gender relations at Lim University of Notre Dame to the Dark Ages. His column did nothing but pnrpetuute every gender stereotype I have ever heard. In the future, I would hope that Mr. Martinez would stick with his clear-cut (lCOnomic analyses rather than ignorantly dab­ble in an twalualion or gender rnlations. 
llere is why. As a man, I am offended by Mr. Martinez's classifi­cation systmn. In his column, men can be identified only as party­ing pigs or church going. wife-seeking "good guys." I know a lot of guys who go to parties and talk with girls dressed to the nines without thoughts of sexual activity. They do not walk around hunting for a girl who is sauced to take home. These arc the same guys who have no problem hanging out with the same girls the nnxt day when they are in baggy sweats sans makeup. Guys can go to dorm parties, drink if they choose, llirt with and compliment girls and still go to church the next morning with a relatively clear conscitmcn. Not all party animals are pigs, and not every good guy wants to put a ring on the lingm of the lirst good girl he meets. Colfog!, is an important time to meet people and establish friend­ships, friendships that can grow into meaningful relationships. It is not just a hunt for the future husband or wife. 
My other problem exists with Mr. Martinez's classification of wonwn. One would think that Mr. Martinez would have better scmsn having brnm raised with sisters. The mere use of words like "sluttish" a11cl "damaged goods" to describe a woman, any woman, is 1111s11itable. Additionally, his analysis of the party scene is remiss 011c1, again. Why shouldn't a girl go out in what she feels cmnfortable in'? Why does he make the assumption that guys see all girls who arn dressed up and having a drink or two as "slut­tish." What is tiven more disturbing is his classification of expm-i­nncmf girls as "damaged goods." Not everyone can be perfect; them am drivos that pm1ple have problems disciplining. Is an alr.oholic "damagod goods"? 
I don't purport lo bo an expert on rnlationships or gender rela­tions, but I rncognize lhat when it comes to love and friendship, you lnarn as you go However. I fear that Mr. Martinez's search for pcrfoGLion will most likely leave him sorely disappointed. Our human naturn assurns that no one can ever be perfect. I, for one, plan on spt•ncling my time with someone I enjoy passing it with, rngardliiss of whnthcr she parties or prays, and any llaws there might be b1\twe1111 us could be worked out. 
I am afraid when it comes to gender relations, Mr. Martinez's arrows urn off tho mark. 
E. Vilbever 
Minneapolis, Minn. Decrn1ber 2, 1999 


Excerpts from more letters 
. We live with t~ese ~uys for four years. We eat with them, attend classes with them, study with thorn, go to parties with them and form relationships with them. Roughly 65 percent of us typical­ly _marry_ th~se men after we graduate. f-!ow are we to know which of them support sexist and m1sogymst 1d~~s when many of us remam unaware of the undercurrent of sexism and misogyny that has trad1t10nally plagued our campus? Gabriel Martinez's column greatly concerns me in this respect because of its insistence upon only seeing and labeling women either as saints or as whores. This kind of thinking contributes to the culture of rape, sexism, and misogyny which has traditionally beep espoused by peoples all over the world. · . Blaming women for "the pig's" sexism and misogyny simply represents a way of skirting the real issue at stake here -that people set limits and restrictions on women's sexuality in response to our culture's traditional espousal of sexism and misogyny. 
Stephanie Andre Junior, Farley Hall 

Mr. Martinez has latched onto the misperceived notion that these "easy" women are responsible not only fo~ their acti~ns but somehow responsible for the actions of any men who may gaze upon the_m; The issue here is one of bl~me. To classify a woman because of the way she acts and dress­es 1s igno_rant. To lay blame of this classification upon the shoulders of women surpasses the ~ealm of ignorance to that of stupidity. The problem lies not with "easy" women, but with men, hke Mr. Martinez, and their arrogant belief that they r.an classify women based on "signs." 
Christopher Reyes Senior, OffCampus 

This is the most offensive column I have ever read in The Observer. 
Roshin Sen Graduate student, department ofsociology 

f\lr. Martine_z's i~ea that women need to prove that they deserve respect through appropriate att1~e and actions is extremely dangerous. It is precisely this attitude that has justified rape on the basis that a woman dressed provocatively. Urging women to dress and act "properly" does not protect them -it victimizes them, and most tragically it excuses the "pig-like" behavior that Mr. Martinez describes. Women of Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross: don't accept Mr. ~artinez's_invitation to imitate his sisters. Instead, continue to be the independent, intelligent and highly motivated women that you are. The right to basic human respect is already yours, no mat­ter what you are wearing. • 
Katie Koch Sophomore, Cavanaugh Hall 

Believe it or not, _women are not solely preoccupied with finding a mate for marriage. ~urther_more, Martmez ~hortchanges the male gender by portraying them as incapable of control­lmg thmr own sexual drives. Are men really so weak that they succumb to every temptation ­e~~1'. those that relate to u?~.orthy, i~~~al, slutty women? Instead of unduly placing all respon­s1b11ltf. ~11,.~omen t~ remam wo~thwhile and holy, ~hy not focus some attention on correcting male p1,g 1mmora~1ty? Mr. Martmez, please do not aim to reform all pigs into your "good guys," though. rhe last thmg we need is more arrogant, self-righteous individuals like yourself. 
The Residents of 819 East Washington Street 
Seniors, OffCampus 

Mr, Martinez, get real. Grow up. Talk to some educated, mature women and realize that a wo~an.~rossing.?r. ac,tin~ in a certain manner is never a justification for men acting like "pigs." l thmk 1t s more ,p1gg1sh to try to make excuses for them at all! A man is always responsible for the way he perceives someone no matter what, just as a woman is. Don't put these ideas into other immature males' minds in the future and add morn ignorance to the world. 
Melanie Peldo 
Graduate student. dep,mment ofchemisuy 

Perhaps Mr. Martinez would prefer a return to the fashions of 100 years ago with women com­plotoly covered from the neck down. Or perhaps he prefers the burkhas that the womnn of Afghanistan are required to wear? I suspect Martinez is a pig of another kind -a sexist pig. 
T. Piatt 
ND Class of'95 

M 
ttene s 
O
THE page 12 . BSERVER Monday, December 6, 1999 
Griswolds stay home for vacation 
By JOEY LENISKI Few films capture the true nature of 
Scene Movie Crick the holidavs at home like "Christmas Vacation.;' There is Clark, an All­American dad in every sense of the
Every Christmas Hreak for 8 years. as word. Nothing will stop him in his quest soon as I got off the school bus at the for his family's•perfcct Christmas cele­beginning of vacation, before I even bration. Ile will endure trimming a 20­called my friends to start planning our 
foot Christmas trne, stapling 20,000
winter-type acliviLies, I curled up in lights to the outside of his house andfront of the television with a pillow and accommodating a score of rude, meanpopped "National Lampoon's Christmas and just plain filthy family members thatVacation" into the VCR. 
have settled in for a long winter's nap. 
It became a ritual in my life. a signifier There is Ellen. his ever-loving, patient 
for the beginning of two and a half and understanding wife. Every timeweeks of snow, sledding and Santa 
Clark falls from the roof, the attic. theClaus. It let me know that I would not ladder. smashes windows. sleds intohave to crack a book, lift a pencil or dumpsters, attacks squirrels or pins hisstudy a single note until a new year family underneath a two-ton semi truck
appeared on the calendar. If not for 
at 60 miles an hour, she is there to pickClark W. Griswold, Jr. and his family up the pieces and drop an "I love you,
greeting me every year on that very 
Sparky" just when he needs it the most.
important Dr,cembor day, I may nevor There is Eddie, his hopelessly dumb
have realized the stressing, frantic, 
cousin-in-law and houseguest. He burps,emotional, care-free, short and wonder­drinks beer and lives in a mobile homeful nature of my winter sojourn. At least, with his family and pet dog nameduntil I found myself alone on a cold, "Snot." But I challenge anybody to pro­dark morning waiting for the yellow kid­duce a more dedicated cinematic char­die-wagon to drag me back kicking and 
acter whose "heart is bigger than his
screaming to another semester of class­
es. brain." Who else would drive a pile of junk into the rich suburbs, abduct a
"Christmas Vacation" is a retreat from man in his pajamas, tie him up in a red
the previous two National Lampoon 
ribbon and bring him in front of Clark films chronicling the wacky travel tra­like he asked so rhetorically in a fit ofvails of the Griswold clan. Whereas the rage ten minutes before? 
first two movies found the family travel­These characters understand that, like 
ing across the U:S. and Europe, 
the humor they unknowingly display,"Christmas Vacation" presents them the family Christmas can be absurdlywith the most difficult family outing of hilarious. When you go home for semes­
all: staying at home. The change of 
ter break, pop in that copy of "Christmas scenery in this third film in the series Vacation" that has been collecting dustalso signifies a change in spirit. The sex, for a few seasons and watch it. When it

nudity and language associated with the Clark Griswold (Chevy Chase) has his share of holiday traumas in "National
finishes, turn around and look at the

preceding movies are toned down here, Lampoon's Christmas Vacation." Battling in-laws, slippery roof tops, drooling dogs,
chaotic bumbling of the family behindmaking it a much cleaner and, in many 

staple guns and plenty of other holiday cheer necessities, Clark manages to salvage
you and ask yourself, "Am I a Griswoldways, funnier family experience. 

a wonderful Christmas for his family and a hilarious sign of the season for yours.
too?" 


Retreat to youth with Ralphie 
By JASON HAMMONTREE Scene Movie Critic 
"A Christmas Story" is just one of those movies. You grew up with it. You don't necessarily remem­ber when you first saw it, but you remember see­ing it again and again. It's part of our generation's pop culture, its lines a part of the common lexicon. 
But beyond its particular importance to our age group, watching it again as a young adult illumi­nates the universality of this movie and its endur­ing appeal to everyone for its wonderful ability to capture what the life of a child is really like, espe­cially around Christmas time. 
You know the plot. Ralphie, who lives in a small town in northern Indiana, wants a Red Rider Air· Rifle for Christmas. He struggles to convince his parents, his teacher and old Santa Claus himself he should get it. But they all disagree, warning him he'll "shoot his eye out." With that as its basic story line, ihe film is filled in with all the little scenes that are part of a kid's life, from avoiding the school bully to listening to your dad swear up and down about the faulty furnace, to daring your best friend to stick his tongue to a cold tlagpole. 
Even though the film is set in the 1950s, its set­ting in no way limits the audience's ability to con­nect with what occurs. Part of the appeal was sit­ling down to watch "A Christmas Story" with your parents, whose childhood was being depicted, and sharing the feeling that our own childhood was still like that (only with different toys). Everyone's childhood was filled with experiences just Hke those in "A Christmas Story." 
Watching this film with a roommate, one watches Ralph, his little brother Randy and Ralph's friends, nostalgkally remembering all personal stuff simi­lar to that in the film. We wouldn't eat anything; when we broke our glasses, we honestly thought our dad was going to kill us; and we ate soap for saying bad words. Also forgotten was how piercing a child's screams were whenever things didn't go his or her way. 


That is what makes "A Christmas Story" the clas­sic 1hat it is. Anyone who watches the film was just Jike Ralph and company at some time. Everyone 
has gone through life, oblivious to what was going 
on, worried only about how to convince their par­
ents and Santa to give them what they wanted for 
Christmas. 
As far as the film-making goes, the narration by 
the adult Ralph that makes the movie a real joy to 
watch. The truly creative touch was to have the 
adult Ralph (the writer of the film, Jean Shepherd, 
lends his voice to this role) describe everything 
with the same zeal and exaggeration that a kid 
would, albeit with much bigger words. His voice­
overs are filled with a wonderfully poetic language 
and style. The images created by his use of lan­
guage are priceless -he refers to his dad's pen­
chant for swearing as a "rich tapestry of obsceni­
ties hanging in space over Lake Michigan." 
Peter Billingsley, one of the best ch_ild actors I've 
seen, plays Ralph. Acting in response to the voice­
over of a narrator is extremely difficult, but he 
pulls that and the rest of the movie off with ease 
(Which begs the question, what is he doing these 
days?). 
"A Christmas Story" is worth a holiday reviewing 
to remind everyone how they used to act around 
Christmas; it will even cause a sentimental longing 
to return to that simpler age, or at the very least, 
to start a return to the holiday mood. 
To leave you with one caveat: when Schwar:£ 
"triple-dog" dares Flick to stick his tongue to the 
flagpole, and Flick's tongue gets stuck, trust that is. 
what happens. It does stick. It does hurt. It does 
remove skin when you pull your tongue off. Lest 
you feel a need to experiment. a piece of this 
writer's tongue hangs on a lamp pole outside an 
apartment building in Columbus, Ohio, following 
an ill-fated attempt to disprove that little theory. It 
wasn't a pleasant experience. 


NSIDER 
O
THE Monday, December 6, l999 BSERVER 1999 Women's College Cup 

Senior forward Jenny Streiffer can't break through the stifling Tar Heels defense, which limited Notre Dame to just three shots on goal. North Carolina won Its 16th national title Sunday in San Jose, Calif. 
Irish take semis, can't hold on against UNC 
pointed in. it's the fact that I one before the half, North And Sunday's game was no even the score. but no altered 
By KERRY SMITH 
don't really think anyone here Carolina went into the locker exception. plan of attack was successful A,.sistan1 Spom Fdiror 
got to s<1e our team at full room at halftime locked in a Tar Heel forward Merideth against a stingy Tar I lecl clefonse strength and see what we can do scoreless lie .. Florance scored the game-win­led by All-American defender SAN .JOSE, Calif. offonsively -that's just not the "If you look at the balance of ning goal 10 minutes into the Lorrie Fair. It was Llw ht!sl ofti11ws and Llw way the year has gone for when we make our run, this second half. knocldng a shot "At that point you can take one worst of limes. us,"said Waldrum. team makes its run in the second from the top of the box past of two approaches ... you can go 
In a talc! of two games, the "I don't know that we ever half,"said Tar lleel head coach Beene. Forward Susan Bush set a little longer lo see if you get it Notni Danw wonwn's soccer fully rncovercd from the four Anson Dorrance. "It takes us a up tho Tar I !eel goal when she back or try something difl'er­lt!am baskPd in tlw glory of a overtimes against Nebraska [in while to get tracked and it takes booted the ball from the midfield ent,"Waldrum said. "Since we sPmilinal win over Santa Clara the quarterfinals!," he contin­us a while to basically wear our to forward Kim Patrick at the left hadn't really put anything Friday only to sulfor tlrn agony or ued. "It was just a diflicult week opponent down. corner o{' the box. Patrick head­together against Santa Clara dt!l'nal in a 2-0 loss to North and I don't think we were very "By the time the second half ed the ball to Florance, who offensively and hadn't all day Carolina in tlw rhampionship frnsh and very sharp in either of rcills around, that's usually when kicked it in for the 1-0 lead. [Sunday), it doesn't matter at round of' llw Women's College the games, and I don't think it's we make our move,"he contin­"l knew that chances weren't that point if you lose by one or by Cup Sunday. a indication of what we can do." ued. "Going into the half. I going to come that often and that live. That's just the mentality you 
Wi lh a 1-0 derision over the The Irish struggled all week­wasn't particularly frustrated ... we would have to finish the ones lake: Do you want to try and win Broncos, tlw Irish gcmrc•d up to end to put together a consistent but I had a feeling that given the we got,"said Florance. "After I the thing or sit back and lose 1-0 mnnt tho Tar I hmls in thn finals, offense. getting outshot 17-3 amount of energy it took Notre missed my first shot at the goal I and make sure you keep it close? l.Ju t no a111ou11 l ol' preparation against both the Broncos and the Dame to weather the Santa just had,. to refocus and remem­I don't think any or these kids could have rnadic•d th11 trnckrdog Tar llrcils. Clara storm, I felt we were going ber that on the nnxt chance I got wanted to play that way." s41rnd for tlw shurp pluy and In the championship game, the to have fresher legs in the sec­I would have to stick it." Waldrum moved Jenny rnhintless a.Hack mountPd by the Tar Heels controlled the ball ond hall'." Florance has been a thorn in Strei!Tcr from the midfield to the Tar I (PP!s. from the opening minulns of Throughout the season, the th(~ sido of thn Irish dcfonse. The forward lin,1 and rnplaced hor 
Irish !wad coarh Handy play. Tho Irish defonse. led by Tar lleels established a pattern junior's only other game-win­with ,fon Grubb immedintoly fol­Waldnun pointc>cl to tho squad's right def'nndnr Kara Brown and of' tough play in the first half ning goal this season canrn lowing tlrn Tar llnol goal. lie IHss than l'ull-strnngth roster, goalkcepnr LaKeys·ia Beene, with a morn productive. goal-ori­against Notre Damn in tlrn Tar continued to shif't his lineup, magnifiPd hy tlrn loss of midficld­came up big in thn first half, sti­ented offense in the second half'. Heels 3-2 overtime win in the attmnpting to !ind thP right com­nr Anrrn Makinnn, as a mason. lling sevnrul Tar Heel attempts According to Borrancc, the Tar regular season. bination for a goal. for Notn) lhtllll)·s inability to at a score. Heels outscored their opponents The Irish tried to gain an Unf'ortunately, nothing S()Pfl1ed match tlw Tar I l<•nls. Dnspite pumnrnling the goal 37-10 in the first half and 54-2 offonsive edge by making key to work. 
"II' tlwrn's mw thing I'm disap-with night shots to Notre Dame's ·in the second half this year. position changes on the field to 
see DEFEAT/page 2 
stat of the games 
1 corner kick 
Notre Dame's only corner kick came in the first halfagainst Santa Clara by Meotis Erikson. 

player of the games 
LeKeysia Beene 
The senior from Gold River, Calif., made 11 saves in two games and shut out the opposition for I 45 minutes lo anchor the Irish defense. 

quote of the games 
"l don't think we can go through this season and be satisjied without winnings the national championship. " Jen Grubb lrlsh captain 
page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Monday, December 6, 1999 
report card 
A-
goalkeeper: Beene made r I saves to keep the Irish in the games. She was especially stronger against 
Santa Clara, coming offher line to 
-grab high corner kicks and stufffast breaks. 
B 
defenders Brown. Pruzinksy, Grubb 
and Lindsey shut down two ofthe 
8-
best offenses in women's soccer for 145 minutes. Brown's physical play sparked the Irish against the Broncos. mldfielders: With Makinen out ofthe game, the Tar /Jeels dominated the Irish midfield. Sarkrsian. Jlfikacenic and Dryer played tough. but the Irish opponents controlled the midfield in both games. forwards: Erikson, /left and Streiffer were held scoreless in both games without receiving much help from lhe 
midflelders. 1,ovelace came offthe 
bench to score the only Irish goal. 
set plays: The Hronco.<r had manyB chances on corner kicks but the Irish defense held tough and did not give 
· up a goal on set plays. On offense. however. the Irish hadjust one corner kick against the Broncos and none against North Carolina. 
B+ 
coaching: With injuries mounting and his team exhausted, Wal drum juggled his lineup. and his team responded 
well. By advancing to the finals in his first year, Waldrum promises amaz­ing seasons to come. 
overall: Notre Dame played with a lot ofheart, dealing No. 1 Santa Clara its first loss. North
2.94 
Carolina. however. wore it down in the finals. 
adding up the nunibers 
North Carolina women's soccer national titles -15 more than 
16
any other school 
1 
times Santa Clara was shut out this season 
attendance at champi­onship game -a new NCAA record 
14,410 
17 
shots yielded by the Irish in each game, while recording only 
three of their own 
career wins by Notre Dame's seniors 
89 
All-Tournament Team 
Christi Welsh, Penn State Nikki Serlenga, Santa Clara Danielle Slaton, Santa Clara LaKeysla Beene, Notre Dame Jen Grubb, Notre Dame Jenny Strelffer, Notre Dame Lorrie Fair, North Carolina Susan Bush, North Carolina Kim Patrick, North Carolina Anne Remy, North Carolina Jena Kluegel, North Carolina Meredith Aorance, North Carolina 
Offensive MVP: Susan Bush Defensive MVP: Lorrie Fair 
IRISH INSIGHT 

Curtain falls on Irish seniors 
SAN JOSE. Calif. 
Jen Grubb clasped her hands behind her straggly blonde ponytail and walked away from North Carolina's midfield heap of celebration. 
Behind Grubb. the Tar Heel 


team dashed toward their senior star Meredith Florance, dancing, hugging and falling on the ground. She wandered toward the scoreboard that read Tar Heels 2, Fighting Irish 0. 
Grubb stared at the turf. "Walking off by myself," said All-American defender Grubb, "I 
just wanted to have a few minutes 
Shannon Ryan to Jet it sink in that my career is 
over, Wf) had lost. I wanted to get 
myself together." 

sports writer After the loss in the national 
championship game, she needed a 
few minutes to herself. Some time to reflect before she had to shake hands with Tar Heels coach Anson Doran or hug her coach, Randy Waldrum. To contemplate four years before buttress­ing her teammates under her sturdy leadership and encouraging underclassmen to look forward to next year. 
To think about time she doesn't have with the Irish anymore. 
When she joined the huddle of inspiring green jer­seys, the rock of solid support allowed herself to crumble into her teammates, letting her tears fall freely. 
"I look at how brave [we were], especially toward the end of the season," she said after the game. "That's what we're all about." 
They've drawn on the same courage they learned when they battled North Carolina for the NCAA title as freshmen. Back when losing didn't hurt so much because there would be more shots at the Tar Heels. 
Since then, they've taught East and West Coast pro­grams that a school where there are cornfields instead of coastlines can grow into a soccer power, too. Together, the Class of 2000 continued the domi­nance they inherited from the 1995 national champion Irish. 
They learned about letdowns and laurels. Sunday, they learned about last chances. 
Entering Notre Dame the year after the Irish cele­brated their '95 title, the seniors spent four seasons chasing the standard. Often, that meant nipping at North Carolina's tarheels. 
The Irish went 1-3-1 against the Tar Heels the last four years, including an overtime win in their initial meeting, a tie in a lightning storm, a loss in the '96 championship game and a 5-1 drubbing in front of the largest regular-season crowd recorded by the NCAA. 
With rivalry, they discovered, comes respect. 
"A loss is a loss," said senior forward and All­American Jenny Streiffer, who had one of just three Irish shots Sunday against the Tar Heels. "I like some of the players on their team and I'm really glad they could go out with a win. If it had to be [another] team, I guess I'm glad it's them." 
The Irish, the fifth seed in the tournament, were considered a surprise by advancing to the champi­onship game after beating undefeated and No. 1­ranked Santa Clara Friday night. No eyebrow raised, however, on the no-nonsense Notre Dame side of the field. 
What else, they figured, would a team so thick with talent do? 
A team with three All-Americans (the most in Irish history), the all-time leading scorer (Jenny Heft, 80) and a player who accomplished only what Mia Hamm can do (Streiffer's 70 goal-70 assist mark) shouldn't fall any shorter than the championship game. So they didn't. 
Following the lead of Heft's determination, goal­keeper LaKeysia Beene's focus, Streiffer's zest, Kara 
shutout of the season with two saves on the game. 
Defeat 

With 11 minutes remain­continued from page 1 ing in the game, Tar Heel midfielder Beth Sheppard "You know what they're erased all hopes of an Irish going to do. They're victory when she scored, extremely difficult to get in increasing North Carolina's behind, especially with lead to two. Earning her [goalkeeper] Jenni Branam second assist of the after­coming off the noon, Bush made a leading line,"Waldrum said. "We pass to forward Raven thought that we might com­McDonald down the left press her a little bit and get side of the field. Raven a turnover, but she was dished the ball to an open pretty solid." Sheppard in the middle of Branam earned her 16th the box, setting up the play 

MICHELLE KRUPA/The Observer 
Jen Grubb can't bear to watch as time runs out on the Irish season and her collegiate career. 
Brown's take-no-prisoner defense, Iris Lancaster's spark off the bench and Big East Defender of the Year Grubb. the Irish knew all the dance steps. Unfortunately for their chorus line, the Tar Heels took the bow at curtain call. 
After the shutout, Streiffer showed how to lift a 
-team. As Grubb stood in disbelief on the field, Streiffer slung her arm around her teammate, high-lived Beene. then consoled the younger players. She understood them because she was there four years ago after an overtime championship loss. She knew what she needed to hear then; she knew how to say it now. "They'll win," she said about the Irish underclass­men, smiling with confidence. "They're going to get one. Our team is too close, too tight of a unit and too hard of workers not to get one." But the underclassmen wanted this game for the seniors. "I feel really bad that we couldn't pull through for them," said junior Kelly Lindsey, her eyes red from spilling tears. "Every position, they've given us the leadership that we needed. I swear they're the best senior class in the nation this year. They worked so hard to get us here and we just couldn't do it for them." Beene is ready to let the young ones lead. "My freshman year, the thing they tell you is you'll get them next year," said Beene, who recorded seven saves against Santa Clara Friday and four against North Carolina Sunday. "You look back and kind of think. The first question was, do I have any regrets? And that was easy for me. It was obviously no; 1 have no regrets. It is our last game, so it's kind of sad. But at the same time you're kind of excited for the fresh­men and you know they have a few years to get it accomplished." The six Irish seniors might take a few days to wal­low, but they won't need much morn. "They'll take a day or two to let it all sink in," said first-year Irish coach Waldrum. who credits the seniors with his smooth initiation into the system. "But hopefully, in a day or two, they'll all realize how important they are -what they mean to this team." 
for an easy score. 
Despite the loss, Beene turned in a powerful per­formance for the Irish. Corning up with several impressive saves against Santa Clara, the senior goalkeeper anchored the Irish squad and led it into the final round. 
''I've always thought that LaKeysia is the best goal­keeper in the country and I think she showed it this weekend,"said Grubb. "In the game against Santa Clara she came up with some big-time saves for us. ... Unfortunately it's been our fault that her goals­against average wasn't as good as it should have been this year." 
Sunday's loss to the Tar Heels marks the sixth con­secutive post-season appearance for the Irish, who won the tournament in 1995. With the win, the Tar Heels enhanced their record as the most winning team in women's soccer history and earned their 16th national title. 
.--------------------------------------­
Monday, December 6, 1999 The.Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3
=-======-=-=====~=======--===============================================================-==_:~=~~=~--­
Irish offense stalls after Makinen's injury 
By MIKE CONNOLLY As.rn.;ia1~ Spnns E<litor 
SAN JOSE, Calif. 

Altnr a !ilur-ovnrtimn marathon victory over Nebraska in the quarterfinals, bead coach Handy Waldrum brought a tired, physically bPaten team lo San Jose. 
With junior forward Monica Gonzalez slowncl by a torn mnniscus in her knee, junior miclffolrl<'r Anne Makinen limitnd hy a knnn injury and sonior l'orward .fnnny ttt,ft wnak from a bought with the nu. the Irish !"aced in(T<'dible odcls against llw u11dntimtPd Santa Clara Broncos. 
"I think w1i gol through ... this weekend tm a lot ol' heart," Waldrum said. "We WPl'I' a lillle lrnngPd up and throwing things togPtlwr tu try and make it work. I am just really proud of Lhis group." 
Thanks to 74 minutes from Makinen and a lot of huslln by an exhausted Irish squad, tlw Irish oanwd the right to face tlw pNmmial powerlmusc North Carolina Tur Ileols in tlrn linals with a 1-0 victory. i\Hnr managing just thrne shots ugaiust tlw Broncos. tlw Irish knew tlwv would nc1id a heller olfonsivn attack agciinsl the Tnr I lcnls. 
Tlw Irish appParml to lmvc a good scor­ing d1,wci, in thH :rntti minute as Makinen brokl' past her defender to the left of the Tar Iloel goal and prnparcd to cross the ball to an awaiting wammate. But just before f.iw l•innish national team player could sm1d the p,L-;s, she fell to the ground and grabbed the back of her leg. The Irish ollcnsP would never be the same. 
"I am not quite sure what happened," Makinm, said about the injury. "I don't think thnrn was any contact. 13ut after that, I was donn." 
Wllh Makinen on tlw bench. the entire pace ol' Lhe game changed, according to junior captain and center defensive back Knlly IJnds,!y. 
"J\l tlrn time she wnnt down, no one J'f\ally realized it but you could tell the minute slw went out that our possession foll a little, bit nml we didn't have a spark up top," Lindsey said. "She wasn't there to collt,ct balls for us and distribute them for us. We reallv missed her in the second 
hall'." . 
With Makinen out of the game, the Irish shirted the lineup and played with two for her thal she couldn't play." field and brought in. freshman Ali Handy all year to move me back to the l'reslnrnm -Nancy Mikacenic and Ashley Makinen's injury became even more Lovelace at forward. Sophomore Lindsey midfield, su maybe it was just to shut me Dryer -and a sophomore -Mia devastating when the Irish fell behind 1-0 Jones, a more offense-minded defensive up. We just wanted to get control of the Sarkesian -in the midlicld. Talented bul in the 56th minute. Unable to hang back player replaced Vanessa Pruzinsky. midfield again." in1ixperiencccl players, they lack on defense and wait for an opening to When this alignment failed to score, While the offense never found the back Makincn's ability to find open players and score. Notre Dame had to attack more Waldrum moved Streiffer back to her of the net against the Tar I!eels, Wald rum to exploit dcfonsivc weaknesses from the and juggled the lineup to get the best more natural forward position and was pleased with his team's effort in a centnr midfield. offensive punch. pushed AH-American Jen Grubb from difficult situation. 
"IL definitely changed things just "We could have said we can just keep it defense to midfield. "We've been very potent all year and 1 lmcause when she is not in there w,i are close and lose 1-0," Waldrum said about "It was just an attempt to control the don't think anyone saw what we can real­not as dangnrous," senior Jnnny Streiffer the more aggressive style of play after the midfield more," Grubb said about her ly do," Waldrum said. "We won Friday on said ilbout Makimm's injury. "She is just Irish fell behind. "But I don't think any of position change. "We were losing the bat­courage and we played today just on an incredible player. We did the best we our kids wanted to play that way." tles in the air and they were getting hard­courage. That's something you can't could without lwr, and I am disappointed The Irish shifted Streiffer back to mid-er tackles. I have also been bugging coach." 
... 


1;oals by Period Notre IJallw Santa Clara Notrn Dame Pos. Player GK Bee1m I) Undsey () Brown M Sarkrsian ll Pru:,insky ll Grubb M Makimm F Erikson F lldt F Str(1ilfor M llrynr  1st 2nd Total D 1 1 0 0 D Sh. soc G A 1 1 1  Shots by Period Notre /Jame Santa Clara Santa Clara Pos. Player GK Gordon F Clemens M Wagner D Bivens M Serlenga F Aldama M Hawkins u Slaton D Kraus i; Little  scoring summary & stats 1st 2nd Goals by Period Total 1 2 3 Notre Dame 5 12 17 North Carolina Notre Dame Sh. SOG G A Pos. Player GK Beene 4 2 D Lindsey 2 1 D Brown M Sarkesian 4 3 D Pruzinsky 1 D Grubb M Makinen 1 F Erikson F Heft 1 F StrcilTer M Dryer  1st 2nd Total 0 D 0 0 2 2 Sh. soc G A 1 1 1 1 1  Shots by Period Notre /Jame North Carolina North Carolina Pos. Player GK Branam M McDowell M Kluegel F Remy D Fair D Stoecker M Sheppard F McDonald D Mitchell F Florance D Borgman  1st 2nd Total 1 2 3 8 9 17 Sh. SOG G A 3 2 3 1 1 1 :i 2 1  ...  
F F M I) F  (;on:ralez Lovrlacc Mikac,,nic Jones l.ancaster  1  M M M M  Hollis Weber Celio Cathcart  2 2  1  F F M D D F  Gonzalez Lovelace Mikacenic Bakker Jones Lancaster  F F D M  Patrick Bush Gaston Ball  2 3  1 2  

O
THE 1999 Women's College Cup BSERVER Monday, December 6, 1999 



KEVIN DALUM/The Observer
PEAKS AND 

North Carolina forward Raven McDonald knees the ball away 
from a Notre Dame midfielder, helping lead the Tar Heels to 
a 2-0 championship victory. 
After its win over No. 1 Santa Clara Friday night, Notre Dame's hopes for national
VALLEYS IN 

championship were dashed in a 2-0 loss to No. 2 North Carolina. The Irish failed to 
become the only team other than the Tar Heels to win more than one national title. 
SAN JOSE 

• 



M 
c.tene s 
O
THE 

Monday, December 6, 1999 BSERVER page 13 
It's a wonderful movie 
of saving George in an attempt to gain his wings, where he is a stranger to his family and his home­By JILLIAN DEPAUL decides to show him what the world would be like if town of Bedford Falls is now Pottcrsville, named Scrnr Movie Critic he had not been born. after the miserly millionairn, playod by Lionel What ensues is a Twilight Zone-esque depiction of Barrymore. 
Frank Capra's 194(> classic, "It's a Wonderful tho impact that one humble man has on his sur­James Stewart's performance in "It's a Wonderful 1.if'n," has lrnconw about as much of a Christmas roundings. George encounters a bizarre universe Life" is the gem of a truly inspired career. as well tradition as eggnog and misllctoe. Imagining a 
as a key aspect of one of America's favorite per­Christmas wilhout "It's a Wonderful Life" is a bit sonas. Stewart's unassuming horo, George Bailey, like imagining Bedford Falls wilhoul George Bailey, radiates the screen with disarming 11motion, and 
and just look what happened in that case. Donna Reed stars in her first f'ilm role as Mary 
Tlw test ol' a true classic is the effect that time Hatch, George's love interest and eventually his has on the piece, whether or not the resonance of wife. llrn t'ilm persists throughout the years. "It's a Uniil a few years ago, when NBC bought the Wonderful Lifo," which was not successful at thr. exclusive rights to "It's a Wonderfuf Lifo," the 
limo of' its original release, has developed into an amount of showings throughout the Christmas sea­/\nrnrican trademark b1icause of its timeless story son was borderline overkill. As a rosult, this film is and rrnissagn. Tim rnsonance of this l'ilm has not very familiar to our culture. which is both a bless­only pnrsist1HI. but has grown over timn, seeming ing and a curse. It's one of those movies that you mon• uppropriaw now than ever, since modern see parts of over and over, and you never really Christmas is littln morn than an excuse for mass bothe·r to sit and watch the f'ilm in its entirety. ('OllSllJIWl"ism. Therefore. we take it for granted as a holiday feel­
"!L's a Wond«~rful Lifo" tells the story of Georgr, good movie, missing the tragedy of the bittersweet Bailey, an EvPryman -in small town A1rnirica whose story about a man whose dreams did not come true, lrnart of gold has thwart<id his aspirations to travel and ultimately, what makes that OK. 
llrn world and to "build things and design build­So do yourself a favor. This holiday season. sit 
Photo counesy of Republic Pictures 
ings," and inst1rnd, has anchored him in Bedford down with the family and enjoy "It's a Wonderful 
George Bailey (Jimmy Stewart) has the chance to
Falls, obligated to run his late father's labor of love, Life," and see if you don't get choked up during tho Tlw Bailey Building and Loan. realize that his life has been · worthwhile when visit­final scene and then crack up when you hear the Orw Christmas, circumstancn frowns on George. ed by an angel Christmas Eve in "It's a Wonderful all-too-familiar sound-byte about angels getting In dnspnrulion, Im contn111plates suicide, and fur­Life." This movie has become a staple of Christmas their wings. Llw r. h11 wis lws that he had never been born. tradition, aired throughout the holiday season. You won't be disappnintHd. It's a wonrlHft1l FINlglin!-{ angnl CIJtrnnc1•. who is faced with the task movie. 
Holiday hijinks and heart 
holiday journey in France. The urgency she throws
By MIKE VANEGAS 
into her performance makes her a great Christmas 
Scene Fdirnr 
mom. It is this intense drive to get to Kevin that 
!l's a modPrn Christmas classic. And though it roal­establishes "Home Alone" as a must-see holi­ly gets altm1Lio11 for its slapstick comedic violence day film. Hoturning to loved ones is a hall­pnrl'ornrnd by bungling burglars .Inc Pesci and mark of the Christmas season, and Daniel Stnrn. "Homo /\lone" has a heart dlleply though the reunion between mother and af'I'Pcl1Hl hy llw Christmas spirit. son lasts only a moment, the loving 
Taking child star Macauley Culkin un a single relief both actors exude upon seeing guy romp through Christmas vacation, the film is each other gives "'Home Alone" a value built on a fantasy premise of a lonely child being '\:,:' beyond the $300 million it madfl at the hif't alorrn to run amuck. But one must wholly 1990-91 box ofnce. nmhracn tlw unliknlihopd of' such a scenario to The sequel to "llome Alone," "Home fully Pnjoy Uw jolliness and emotional whirlwind Alone 2: Lost in New York," follows an
·,,€

"llom11 /\lone" ultimately succeeds to present. identical story lino, only Kevin finds him­
Tim opnning sequm1cc of' the film takes viewers self in New York City. having boarded into tlrn homn of prntty much any upper-middle •·· JI,. the wrong plane at Chicago's massive class Anrnrican family during the Christmas sea-O'Hare Airport (his family flies to son. Kids run around dreaming about Santa Florida).
~,Claus. Parents swnat out the mayhem of having Despite tho repetitive nature of the tlw kids hourn for two or three weeks. But i.n the '},•·,. "'ttl•/~-sequel, the reunion sequence at McAllisLcr homn, evnryone makes an effort to ( Rockefeller Center is just as heart­trash on young Kevin (Culkin). Tho conflict forces warming as in the original. And Knvin to slunp in llw attic, where everyone will because ''llome Alone 2" invokes more
.' 

l'orgnl about him come morning. of the spiritual motivation of the holiday Culkin. however precocious he may seem, fleshes season. out Lhn immaturo role he takes by giving a confi­Both movies are family· favorites. The dnnt intolligm1c11 to 8-year-old Kevin McAllister. llis light-hearted, schtick style humor keeps initial plnasure upon realizing he was hume alone children enthrallod. You have to admit, at trnnslatns into a f'rc1iwheeling sequence of sltidding some time you wished you were as lucky down Urn staircase, pigging out on sugary guodies as Kevin, running the house alonn while and scaring tlrn crap out of a pizza delivery man. subsisting on a diet comprised solely of But limn nntnr Pnsci and Stern, who play two rob­sugar, For the mature audiences,
more lwrs who visit homns while the owners are out ol' the separation of parent and child is town With the Mc/\llister home as their main tatget, sure to tug al even the most taught tlwy soon encounter littln Kevin, who makes their heart strings. The reunion scenes are night a living hell. Feet step on nails. Scalding guaranteed tearjerkers. With doorknobs brand hands. Paint cans fly action, minimal violence, l'rom thn secmHl floor to knock out humor, and some sen­anyo111i on tlrn first floor. timentality. the That's what Christmas is "Home Alone" all about. right'! movies have 
W«dl, a subplot clnvnl­secured tlrnir ops Olll of IWC!lSsity. place among whern Kevin's moth­Christmas (lr, played by nnu­movin clas­.. 
rotic Catherine sics. 
O'llara. tries at all costs to get 
Photo Counesy of Twentieth Centrury Fox 

homo to Chicago Ahhhhhhhh!!!f Macauley Culkin has become a mainstay for Christmas entertainment. Children across the country await their chance from hor to be left "Home Alone" to defend their home In true bad guy fashion. However, this movie also provides a few moments for those with family's a sentimental side. The mother and chlld reunion reminds us all of how lucky we really are to spend the holldays with our loved ones. 
Monday, December 6, 1999
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS 
NBA 

Coleman leads Hornets to win over hapless Sonics 

Associated Press 
SEATTLE 
Derrick Coleman scored 26 points, as the Charlotte Hornets handed the Seattle Supersonics their second straight lopsided homecourt loss, 103-81. 
Eddie Robinson had a season­high 18 points off the bench for the Hornets, who improved to 3­6 on the road this season and concluded their four-game trip with a 2-2 record. 
Gary Payton led the Sonics with 17 points. The Hornets double-teamed him aggressively throughout and held him to 4­for-14 from the field. 
Payton had eight assists and six rebounds and played the first 45 minutes of the game before he was taken out with 
3:17 out and the Sonics down 97-77. 
The Hornets held the Sonics to a season-low 35 percent shooting and without a basket for the first 3 :50 of the fourth quarter. Seattle went on a 10-1 run to take a 85-66 lead. 

Baskets by Anthony Mason, David Wesley and Todd Fuller gave the Hornets a 75-58 lead late in the third quarter. The Sonics closed within 75-65 after three quarters. 
McCoy kept the Sonics in the game during the first half with 10 straight points during the second period on 5-for-5 shoot­ing. He also picked four person­al fouls. 
Raptors 98, Spurs 92 
Vince Carter scored a career­high 39 points iri the Raptors' win over the Spurs. 
Carter, last year's rookie of the year, was 15-for-25 from the field. He also had seven rebounds, and made all eight of his free throws. 
After Dee Brown got a steal with just under two minutes remaining, he fed Carter, who hit a mid-range jumper in traf­fic. 

Avery Johnson, who had 20 points, responded with a jumper to pull San Antonio within one. but Tracy McGrady nailed a jumper with 44.9 seconds left to give the Raptors a 92-89 lead. 
Tim Duncan, who was double teamed down the stretch, missed an 18-footer with 30 seconds left. 
The Spurs then fouled Doug Christie, who hit both of his free throws. 
After Terry Porter made a desperation 3-pointer to bring the Spurs within two, Carter was fouled. He made both free throws to give Toronto a 96-92 lead. Christie was fouled again. He then made both free throws to complete the scoring. 
Toronto jumped out to a 12­point lead in the third quarter on a 9-0 run where Carter scored six points, including a spectacular dunk that had the crowd in awe. 
Carter did a crossover, busted Chucky Brown's ankles, then dunked over David Robinson. 
The Spurs began the fourth quarter on a 13-2 run as Duncan, who had 27 points and 13 rebounds, scored 10 points during the stretch. 
Robinson was held to seven points. He was just 2-for-9. 
Carter hfld 18 points as the Raptors led 45-44 at the half. Johnson had 14 for the Spurs~ 
Bucks 103, Mavericks 97 

Sam Cassell dominated the game with 16 points and a career-high 18 assists as the Milwaukee Bucks held off the scrappy Dallas Mavericks. 
Cassell, who had 23 points and 15 assists at Chicago on Saturday, emphatically put his early season offensive troubles behind him with a marvelous weekend of play. 
Michael Finley was almost as impressive for the Mavericks. He had 29 points, including 12 during a last-minute rally that cut Milwaukee's 21-point fourth-quarter lead to 97-91 with 40 seconds to play. 
But Glenn Robinson, who fin­ished with 17 points, hit a short jumper and Finley turned the ball over. Damon Jones hit a three-pointer with 12 seconds, but Cassell hit two free 'throws to seal the win. 
Ray Allen had 20 points for Milwaukee, and Tim Thomas added 13. Jones and Hubert Davis had 18 points apiece for .the Mavs. 
Milwaukee, which never trailed and led by 20 points early in the second quarter, beat the Mavs for the sixth straight time as Dallas saw its two-game winning streak snapped. Dallas finished a five­game road trip with a 2-3 record. 
The Bucks blew a 17-point lead at Chicago on Saturday night before hanging on to beat the Bulls 92-91. At times, Milwaukee appeared ready to lose another big lead Sunday by committing an ·uncharacteristic: 24 turnovers. including six by Cassell. The Bucks lead the league In turnover margin. 
Dallas closed to within 69-61 in the final minute of the third quarter, but the Bucks made a 13-2 run in the next four min­utes that appeared to put the game away. 
Consecutive thunderous dunks by Thomas on passes from Cassell put Milwaukee up by 18 with seven minutes left. One minute lat1-ir, Thomas dunked on 7-foot-6 Shawn Bradley. 

,, ;,.?:i~--I 631 4'

-i 
Mark McGrath 
Laurvn Hill 

-501 
Putt o-., ,
211 
Lil' Kim 

T, Rtz-­
637-: 
Tori Amos 

TUN;;'3' Where do all your favorite_ artists call home? Tunes.com. At Tunes.com you'll find the entire 
• C O m 

.,,_,,,, .. music universe at your fingertips. Thousands of MP3s. Concert photos. Videos. The latest music news. Even live concert webcasts. Not to mention fresh content fron1 Rolling Stone and Down Beat. Tons of artists, tons of music all under one virtual roof. It's all here at Tunes.com. Come on in. DOW~BEAT}/24Z7 ~•ill~!J:i)jjj 
,­
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, December 6, 1999 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Seminoles, Hokies face off for national championship 
A_ssociated Press 
No mystery, no intrigue, just this simple fact: No. 1 Florida State will play No. 2 Virginia Tech for the national champi­onship in the Sugar Bowl on Jan. 4. 
In the second season of the Bowl Championship Series, the system of rating teams using polls, computers, strength of schedule and losses worked per­fectly. 
As expected, the Seminoles (11-0) and llokies (11-0) finished first and second in the final BCS standings released Sunday, matching their finish in the AP media poll's final regular-season rankings. The USA Today/ ESPN coaches' poll also had the teams ranked 1-2, as did seven of the eight computers used by the BCS. 
"They've been there so many times and we're kind of the new kid on the block," Virginia Tech coach Frank Beamer said. "Hopefully, you'll get to like us. This is a good group, a hard­working group. We've met every challenge this year but we've not had a challenge like Florida State." 
Florida State, national cham­pions in 1993, will be playing in its third national title game in the past four years. Coach Bobby Bowden said h~ 's just happy his team in the title game, but ''I'd just as soon be No. 2 going in. There's a little more incentive. But the idea is to get there and whoever wins the game is going to be No. 1." 
Even No. 3 Nebraska (11-1), which dominated Texas 22-6 on Saturday to win the Big 12 title, conceded the Florida State­Virginia Tech matchup was the right one. The Cornhuskers. who lost their title chance two weeks ago with a shaky overtime win over Colorado, will play No. 6 Tennessee (9-2) in the Fiesta Bowl on Jan 2. 
"We'll live with the system," Nebraska coach Frank Solich said after his team avenged its only loss of the season. "There's probably four or five other teams out there that believe they could line up in the national title game. But Florida State and Virginia Tech are great teams, too, and deserving." 
In the other BCS games, it's Southeastern Conference cham­pion No. 5 Alabama (10-2) vs. No. 8 Michigan (9-2) in the Orange Bowl and Big Ten win­ner No. 4 Wisconsin (9-2) vs. Par-10 winner No. 22 Stanford (8-3) in the Rose BowJ on Jan. 1. 
The Crimson Tide (10-2) beat No. 10 Florida 34-7 Saturday night to earn their place in the Orange Bowl. · 
The Gators {9-3), meanwhile, will play No. 9 Michigan Stqte (9-2) in the Florida Citrus Bowl, and No. 14 Texas (9-4) was matched against No. 24 Arkansas (7 -4) in the Cotton Bowl. 
Also, No. 23 Miami's 55-0 win over Temple on Saturday sent the Hurricanes (8-4) to the Gator. Bowl against No. 17 Georgia Tech (8-3) on New Year's Day. 
The last time teams ranked 1­2 with perfect records played in a game that determined the 
national title was the 1996 
Fiesta Bowl, when No. 1 
Nebraska beat No. 2 Florida 62­
24. 
The Sugar Bowl marks the 
13th time teams ranked 1-2 
have played in a bowl game, and 
the 33rd time No. 1 has played 
No. 2. 
The BCS standings were used 
only to determine the top two 
teams, with the three other 
bowls in the series choosing 
from the remaining c1ualified 
schools. Six major conference 
champions received automatic 
bids, and Michigan and 
Tennessee were selected as at­
large teams. 
In the final BCS standings, 
Florida State had 2.24 points, 
Virginia Tech 6.12 points and 
Nebraska 7.42 points. Last 
week, the Hokies had° a 1. 54­
point lead over the Huskers. 
No. 7 Kansas State (10-1) was sixth in the final BCS standings, but the Orange Bowl passed over the Wildcats in favor of Michigan, eighth in the BCS standings. Last year, an 11-1 K­State fell all the way to the Alamo Bowl after losing the Big ·12 title game. This time, the Wildcats will play in the more lucrative Holiday Bowl, against 
Washington. 
Bowden, who joined the 300­
win club earlier this season, also 
is looking for something that has 
eluded him his entire career ­
a perfect season. 
The Seminoles are led by 
Chris Weinke and wide receiver 
Peter Warrick. Weinke is the 
nation's seventh-rated passer, 
completing 232 of 377 for 3,103 yards and 25 TDs. Warrick, suspended for two 

Last season, Weinke missed games because of his involve­Florida State's failed title bid ment in a shopping mall scam, against Tennessee in the Fiesta caught 71 passes for 934 yards Bowl with a neck injury. and totaled 12 touchdowns. 
"I've got to be one of the lucki­Virginia Tech, in Beamer's est guys," Weinke sa.id. "I'm just 13th year as coach, completed grateful I have another opportu­its first perfect regular season in nity. I'm as excited as ever to 81 years and are led by redshirt play in a game of this magni­freshman Michael Vick, the tude." nation's too-rat.nd m1ca:ca:,•r 
Is 5-7 acceptable? 
Did Oswald act alone? 

More importantly, what are you going to do after graduation? 
Join Sean Maurer '95 as he discusses these important issues and how you can volunteer as a teacher at Mount Carmel High School in Belize. 
Room 217 DeBartolo 
6:30 PM Monday, December 6th 
For more info email maurer@bases.com or visit http:/ /www.belizeweb.com/MCHS/index.htm 
Class of 2000... COME CELEBRATE THE END OF THE SEMESTER AND CONGRATULATE THE DECEMBER GRADUATES FREE PIZZA!!! ,.~o'• _ • _ Senior Class Dinner at Alumni Senior Club! ..~,5-7 PM on Wednesday, December 8 Then, head over to cheer for the Irish!!! *Donations will be accepted for the Adoption Network*  

Monday, December 6, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
__...­

Comeback by Marino falls short against Colts 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 

Standing alone on the side­line. Dan Marino watched the gamp's final play, then unsnapped his chin strap and slowly walkod off the field, !wad down in d1•f'cat. 
1111 didn't s1ic countcrparl l'nyton Manning leap in the air to lc1ad tho Indianapolis Colts' cnlnbration. 
'"!'hut's the highHst I've ever jumped," Manning said later. 
Manning and his teammates barely withstood u gallant comclmck by Marino, and Mike Vandorjagt's 53-yard field goal as timll ran out bmtt the Miami Dolphins :H-:H Sunday. 
Marino, his earner in jeop­ardy, threw thrno touchdown passns and rallind Miami from a 14-poinl deficit in the second half'. But Manning hit Marvin llarrison with completions of 16 and 18 yards in the linal 30 si1conds to set up the winning 
kick. 
"Never sav it's not over until it's over." s~id Manning, giving Yogi Berm's famous phrase a twist. 
The Colts (10-2) took control of the AFC East with a two­game lnad over Miami and Buffalo. Indianapolis has won eight in a row since losing at homn lo the Dolphins on Oct. 
10. 
"This was a huge test for us, the biggest test ol' the season," Indy coach Jim M<>ra said. 
Miami (8-4) was left to scram­bin for a wild-card berth. The Dolphins sharnd the NFL's best rncord beforn losing three of thoir past four games. 
"The way the AFC: is, we're lighting just to make the play­offs," coach Jimmy Johnson said. 
Rams 34, Panthers 21 
The St. Louis Hams capped their unlikely rise from NFC West do11rmats to division champions with a 34-21 victory over the Carolina Panthers on Sunday. 
St. Louis, which improved lo 10-2 for the first time since 1978, hasn't been to the play­offs since 1989. 
After winning their first six division games by an average of 25 points, the Rams wrapped up the r,rown by weathering the Panthers' second-half rally. 
The Rams' defensri had shut out their fast three opponents in the second half, but Carolina scored 14 points lo make it close before Dre' Bly's 56-yard interception return put St. Louis up by 10 with 9:48 left. 
Carolina (5-7) hurl itself all day with penalties, breakdowns in thn secondary and missed tackles. The Panthers, who intercepted Warner twice but were unable to convert either one into points, missed a chance to roach the .500 mark for the first time in two years. 
Bengals 44, 49ers 30 
Cincinnati (3-10) put up its highest point total in 10 years, ended a streak of 11 straight home losses, got back-to-back wins for the first time since 1997 and had some fun at the expense of the team that has tormented them more than any other. 
The Bengals had lost their last nine games to the Niners since 1975, including a pair of Super Bowls in the '80s. Fans booed as highlights of those games were shown on the video board. 
At the end, thousands stuck around in the rain to cheer the most satisfying win of the sea­son. 
The 49ers trudged off the field with helmets in hand after losing their eighth in a row ­their worst skid in 19 years ­and clinching their first losing season since 1982. 
Lions 33, Redskins 17 
Desmond Howard returned a punt 68 yards for a touchdown, and Detroit's defense contained Washington's potent offense as the Lions beat the Redskins, snapping an 18-gamc losing streak that had stretched to 34 years. · Howard, waived by Green Bay and signed by Detroit on Saturday, was needed because Terry Fair, who had a house­hold accident and broke a knuckle, was unable to play. 
Chiefs 16, Broncos 10 
Tamarick Vanover returned a punt 80 yards for a touchdown with 4:53 left, lifting the Chiefs to a 16-10 victory Sunday. 
The Chiefs (7-5), who drew within one game of AFC West­1eading Seattle after the Seahawks bowed 30-21 to Oakland, won a game of field position that featured punters Daniel Pope and Tom Rouen. 
But it was Vanover who made it academic. With the score tied 10-10, he camped under a punt by Rouen, darted left and tightroped down the sideline, eluding four would-be tacklers for his third career punt return for a score and first since 1997. 
The Chiefs missed the extra point when Pope, the holder. couldn't handle the snap, but Denver ( 4-8) failed to move past its own 46 on two subsequent possessions. 
Kansas City, which punished Denver with 188 yards on the ground in a 26-10 win earlier this season, finished with 177 rushing. Tony Richardson had a career-high 80 yards, and Donnell Bennett added 66. 
Kansas City's Elvis Grbac completed 20 of 34 passes for 183 yards and a touchdown, and Denver's Brian Griese was 20-of-36 for 227 yards. 
Chargers 23, Browns 10 
Playing without their two All­Pro defenders, linebacker Junior Seau and safety Rodney Harrison, the Chargers beat the Browns, their first win since defeating Seattle on Oct. 17. 
San Diego (5-7) got short scoring runs from Kenny Bynum and rookie Jermaine Fazande, and three field goals from John Carney. Cleveland (2-11) lost its third straight 

game. · With a tough final month that 
includes road games against 
Seattle, Miami and Denver, this 
was the Chargers' best shot to 
end their losing streak. 
They did it without Seau, a late scratch because of a strained stomach muscle and a rib injury, and Harrison, who has missed seven straight games with a shoulder injury. Harrison was expected to return but tore scar tissue in practice on Friday. 
The Chargers also were with­out defensive tackle Norman Hand, cornerback Terrance Shaw and running back Natrone Means, who's now missed six games. 
Raiders 30, Seahawks 21 
Overcoming a broken wrist and a strained thigh, Rich Gannon threw scoring passes of 14 and 5 yards to Tim Brown as the Oakland Raiders took a 17-point lead in the second quarter and held on for a 30-21 win Sunday over the Seahawks. 
Seattle {8-4) was undermined by turnovers for the second straight week. Ricky Watters fumbled twice and Jon Kitna, who had five interceptions and a fumble in a 16-3 loss to Tampa Bay last week, was picked off twice by the Raiders 
(6-6}. 

Cardinals 21, Eagles 17 
Jake Plummer, ineffective nearly all afternoon in his return to the Arizona starting lineup, directed the Cardinals to two touchdowns in the final 
4:31 as they rallied to beat Philadelphia 21-17 Sunday for their fourth victory in a row. 
Frank Sanders' diving catch of Plummer's 38-yard pass just inches from the goal line set up Plummer's 1-yard sneak for the winning touchdown with 57 seconds to play. The officials reviewed the play to make sure Sanders was inbounds, and the catch was upheld. 
With the victory, Arizona (6­
6) moved within a game of first place in the NFC East going into next week's game at Washington. 
Packers 35, Bears 19 
As the wind howled and a cold rain swept across Soldier Field. Green Bay rookie De'Mond Parker told himself lo just deal with the conditions. llis chance to play had finally arrived. 
Parker, playing because lead­ing rusher and receiver Dorsey Levens was sidelined by cracked ribs, also focused on finding the end zone in the final quarter. 
Green Bay rookie DeOMond Parker ran for a pair of touch­downs as the Packers handled the weather and beat the Chicago Bears for their third straight victory. 
Late in the second quarter, Bears punter Todd Sauerbrun droppod the ball as he was try­ing to kick it, and Packers defensive end Keith McKenzie scooped it up and ran 45 yards for the touchdown with 1:09 left in the first half, giving the Packers a 21-10 lead. 
Giants 41, Jets 28 
Kerry Collins hit Amani Toomer for three touchdowns and ran for another as the Giants routed their local rivals, with the most points scored by the Giants in four years. 
The Giants (6-6) set a season high for yards (490) while going 13-for-19 on third downs in breaking a three-game slide and keeping their playoff hopes alive. The Jets (4-8) were over­matched from the outset, even yielding 111 yards rushing on 38 carries lo rookie Joe Montgomery, making his first start. 
Falcons 35, Saints 12 
Chris Chandler threw for two touchdowns and ran for anoth­er as the Falcons snapped a three-game losing streak by routing the even-more-hapless Saints. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS .. 
SPRING BREAK 2000 www.thecommentator.com 
Cancun, Mazatlan, Acapulco, Jamaica and S.Padre. Reliable www.NDToday.com
NOTICES WANTED FOR RENT FOR SALE 
TWA flights. Biggest Parties & Best Packages. Book by Dec.1 & SAVE what a week. THE COPY SHOP Free CD of cool indie music when ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE Spring Break Specials!Bahamas up to $200! 1-800-Surts-Up Lafortune Student Center you register at mybytes .com, the HOME FOR Party Cruise 5 Days $279! Includes www.studentexpress.com This is the last issue of The PHONE 631-COPY ultimate website for your college ND-SMC EVENTS. Mealsl Observer I am ever going to work 
www.CopyShopND.com needs. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. Awesome 1988 Honda CRX 104K, 4 Speed, on. Good bye to everyone at the big Store Hours 243-0658. Beaches,NightlifelCancun & Runs Well, $750 288-3408 0. You will be missed no matter Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight Jamaica 7 Nights From $3991 how much I complained about you. Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm Browse icpt.com for Springbreak Florida NEC 15" MONITOR Sat: Noon-6:00pm "2000".AII destinations offered.Trip Looking for 1 more roommate to $129!springbreaktravel.com $95 It's my last night copy editing, so I Sun: Noon-Midnight Participants.Student Orgs & move into beautiful off-campus 1-800-678-6386 287-6459 want to thank some people. Mark, 
Campus Sales Reps house in Riverside historic district. thanks a lot for all the hard work FREE MONEY wanted.Fabulous parties.hotels & Male or female (currently 2 male, 1 92 Ford Tempo, 4-dr., auto. loaded, you put In. h ttp://expage .comlpage/a1nmoney prices.Call Inter-Campus 800-327-female living there) who wants a 120k mi., runs well, $1350/best. 
6013 clean, safe house and likes good Phone Cards 669min. $20 232-5609. Some people at the Big 0, like music. N-Sync fans need not reply. 243-9361 or 258-4805 Brian, Mike, Kerri, Tim, Michelle, 280.00/month plus utilities .. Call Kevin, Crazy Joe ... you loo, Daily. 
EXCELLENT compensation for 288-4517.

LOST & FOUND PERSONAL 
marketing college products at BEST Everyone in Siegfried Hall, the best 
prices Go NOW to: SPRING BREAK 2000 Quality Copies, Quickly! dorm on campus, including Dan, LOST: hltp:/lwww.akademos.com/campus· WALK TO SCHOOL PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA We're open early, late, & Copes, Sean, Bob, Chris, Tony, Silver Charm Bracelet rep http://mmmrentals.homepage.com FROM $149 PER PERSON SAND· weekends. Rich, John, BK, Med, Flup and Phil. lost in middle ol October 232-2595 Of PIPER BEACON BEACH RESORT THE COPY SHOP 
..................................

High sentimental value mmm.rentals@aol.com THE "FUN PLACE"I Lafortune Student Center Finally, all the senior MEs, like x3727 -Mags Sony Playstation to give as a TIKI BEACH BAR ENTEAT AIN-Phone 631-COPY Brendan 0, Hebert, John, Dave, 
Christmas girt. Looking for a good 3 bdrm. duplex, one mile from cam-MENT BY BOOGIE INCORPORAT• Danny. and the Golden Retrievers. LOST: deal. pus. Appliances, W/D, ED BIKINI CONTESTS MALE Quality Copies, Quickly! DARK BLUE COLUMBIA WINTER Call Chas 503 Eddy St. HARD BODY CONTESTS That's the sports. and I. .. am... COAT WITH BLACK ACROSS 4-2686 273-8332 3 POOLS LAZY RIVER RIDE Looking for a unique gift idea? 
THE SHOULDERS &BLACK -·"""'*It··~ It'll~"'"'"'"'•·-~ ....11~ •• • • WATER SLIDE How about a personalized color pie-THE LAST ISSUE OF THE FLEECE ZIP-OUT LINING. LOST 6 SEDAM. '00-'01 HUGER BEACHFRONT HOT TUB ture calendar? OBSERVER IS WEDNESDAY, AT SENIOR BAR ON NOV. 20 EARN $$$s FOR EVERY HOUR $1200/mo. 273-0482 MINI GOLF GIFT SHOP SUITES Bring in 12 of your favorite pictures DEC. 8. 
AFTER YOU SPEND SURFING THE UP TO 10 PEOPLE and we'll do the restlll If you want to wish your friends a ND-BC GAME. $$REWARD$$. INTERNET.FOR DETAILS SEND room for rent 1-800-488-8828 THE COPY SHOP happy holiday in the classifieds, the CALL PAT AT E·MAJL TO call lor info WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM LaFortune Student Center deadline is 1-312-245-4294 WORLDWEB1@GO.COM 256-6929 2 pm Tuesday, Dec. 7. 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, December 6, 1999 
Hockey 
continued from page 24 
minutes by keeping the pres­sure on the Irish, but the defense held strong. as it had all night, allowing few scoring opportunities. The closest that the visitors came to scoring came after Irish defenseman Evan Nielsen was sent to the penalty hox for interference. Michigan State pulled its goalie to give them a 6-on-4 advantage. With only 20 sec­onds left in the game, left wing Brian Maloney fired a shot off the cross bar and the defense was able to hold off the Spartans. 
Irish goalie Tony Zasowski made the key saves when the Irish needed them, stopping 15 shots in the final period. He had 24 saves for the entire game, getting his second shutout of the season and Notre Dame's first against Michigan State since February 24, 1978. The win also marked the first time that the Irish defeated the Spartans at home since 1982. 
"It was an enormous win," said Irish head coach Dave Poulin. "That was the best all­around game we've played this year." 
The first period proved to be a defensive battle, as both teams had only one shot on goal for the first 10 minutes. Despite the few shots. Michigan State spent most of the first period in the Notre Dame zone. The Irish defense was able to keep the Spartans away from the net, blocking and deflecting most of their attempts on goal. Michigan 
"It was an enormous win. That was the best all­around game we've played all year." 
Dave Poulin Irish hockey head coach 
State did beat Zasowski on one shot, ,vhen John-Michael Liles scored with 1: 26 left in the period, but the goal was waived off because 1\ISU center Shawn Horcoff was in the crease. 
"We wanted to keep their offense on the perimeter as much as possible," said Poulin. "It was important to keep their defenders out of the offense. Borega and Clark were very good on defense, our whole defense was really good." 
In the second period the Irish came out more aggres­sive on offense and outs.hot the Spartans in the period 11-3. Connor Dunlop and David Inman each had good scoring opportunities, but neither team was able to find the net. 
"They'll give you a certain amount of space on offense, and we took the space they gave us," said Poulin. "It's tough to p-enetrate their defense." 
The play of the Notre Dame defense and Zasowski gave the Irish a much needed two points in the CCHA. "What was most encouraging were all the different facets of the game we played well. Dolder played solid for us all night, and was huge going to the net for the goal. Zasowski was huge the last couple of minutes, espe­cially on the penalty kill. We need to enjoy this for a bit and experience the feeling of knowing what went in to that game. We want that feeling every night, some nights you'll get beat, but we need to enjoy it and learn from what it feels like." 
On Sunday, Michigan State scored in every period on their way to a 4-1 victory. The offensive outburst and the strong goaltending of Joe Blackburn continued Notre Dame's season-long drop-offs in the second games of CCHA series, with a 3-2-1 mark in the opening games and just a 1-4-1 record in the second games. A win on Sunday at Munn Ice Arena would have given the Irish a chance to move into seventh place in the CCHA. 
The Spartans scored twice within a 23 second span in the first period and· never looked back, adding a goal in each of the next two periods. Blackburn's 24 saves in the game now give him 95 saves in his career against Notre Dame. 
The Irish, who failed to con­vert on all eight of their power-play chances, quickly responded to MSU's third goal of the night, on a frantic triple-rebound sequence at the 
11:55 mark of the second peri­od. Senior center Ben Simon started the series with a shot from the left circle that Blackburn knocked into the crowded slot area. Senior right wing Joe Dusbabek sent the puck back on the net, but Blackburn skated out for the save. 
Dusbabek then sent the sec­ond rebound through the legs of the charging Blackburn but defenseman Brad Hodgins was guarding the goal line and nudged the puck back into the slot. Irish junior left wing Jay Kopischke was crashing the net and smacked the puck past Hodgins for his third career goal and first since scoring in a 7-2 loss to Michigan on Jan. 30, 1998. 


The Irish continue play this weekend with a two game series against UMass-Amherst. Notre Dame hosts the two games Friday and Saturday at 
7:05 p.m. at the Joyce Center. 
WORLD CUP SOCCER 
198 countries sign up for 2002 World Cup 
Associated Press 
TOKYO 
A record 198 countries entered the qualifying draw for the 2002 World Cup, with only North Korea and four other countries skipping 

... the soccer showcase. North Korea's decision means there is no chance it will play host to some games or share a team with South Korea, said Lennert Johansson, the chief organizer of World Cup events for soccer's rul­ing body. The 2002 World Cup will be staged by Japan and South Korea. The preliminary draw is Tuesday in Tokyo. The other four nations to miss the world's most watched sports event are: Afghanistan, Niger, Burundi and Papua New Guinea. 
The qualifying rounds for the World Cup in France in 1998 had 174 countries. 
France, the defending champion, and the two hosts automatically qualify for the 32-team field. 
Europe will provide at least 13 other qualifiers from 50 nations. With past champions England and Italy not among the seeded teams, one could conceivably end up in the same group with three-time champion Germany. 
European teams will be placed in nine groups, with each winner advancing. Playoffs among eight runners-up will determine four other spots. Another runner-up will face an Asian team in a play­off. 
Asia will provide two or three qualifiers, plus Japan and South 
Korea. 
South American nations will not be included in the draw since thev play a league system with the top four qualifying directly and the fifth facing a team from Oceania in a playoff. 
Africa will provide five teams, coming through two rounds of group qualifications. 
The most complicated system involves the group from North and Central America and the Caribbean. The United States, Mexico, Jamaica and Costa Rica do not enter the qualifications until the semifinal round. 
Johansson, also the head of Europe's governing soccer body, said one of the 2002 semifinals will be in Saitama, Japan, and the other at a South Korean site to be decided. The final will be in Yokohama, near Tokyo. 
Johansson said there will be ran­dom drug tests at all games for the 32-team tournament. Testing also will be conducted during qualifica­tions, with FIFA aiming to test players from at least one game in a given round in each confederation. 
Among the problems still to be ironed out are ticket allocations ­Japan wants more -slow market­ing and a decision on starting time to satisfy European viewers. 
In another matter, FIFA, the world's governing body, said it is investigating reports that Brazil used three overage players in an under-17 competition. 
If found guilty, Brazil, the only four-time champion, could face a two-year ban and miss the World Cup altogether. 
FOOTBALL 

Goolsby makes oral commitment 
By TIM CASEY Sports W rirer 

Bob Davie was enjoying dinner at the College Football Hall of Fame on Saturday night with some current players, coaches and high school seniors making their official recruiting visits to Notre Dame. 
The enjoyment turned into excitement when Mike Goolsby approached Davie. 
"I went up to [defensive coordinator] Coach [Greg] Mattison first to tell him [that I committed to the Irish]," Goolsby said. "He said it wasn't official until I told Coach Davie. So I went up to coach Davie and told him. He seemed excited." 
Davie had everv reason to have a smile on his face. 
Saturdays haven't been too kind to the Irish in recent weeks. Yet on the first Saturday in December. consecutive season-ending losses to Tennessee, Pittsburgh, Roston College and Stanford seemed a distant memory. 
Though Goolsby will not officially be a member of the Class of 2004 until he signs a letter of intent on February 2nd, the first day recruits can sign, the 6­foot-3, 230-pound line­backer from Joliet, Ill., made an oral commitment to attend Notre Dame on 
"He's an impact play­er. He's somebody that can come in very early and perform well." 
Mike Frank recruiting expert on Mike Goolsby's ability 
Saturday. 
The Irish coaching staff has had its eye on Goolsby for over a year. 
"He's a guy that Notre Dame targeted as a priori­ty guy from the day they saw him," said Mike Frank, a recruiting expert from Omaha, Nebraska who runs the Irishre port.com website. "He has vast potential." 
That potential was never more apparent than this fall when Goolsby led Joliet Catholic to the Illinois 4A state title. While the Irish were preparing for Stanford, Goolsby was in Champaign. Ill., celebrat­ing with his teammates after a 48-13 victory over Metamora in the University of Illinois' Memorial Stadium. 
For the season, Goolsby recorded 74 tackles, three sacks, eight caused fum­bles and four fumble recoveries. In addition to being named first team All-State, Goolsby is rated the 13th-best high sr,hool senior in the country, regardless of position, by 
recruiting expert Tom Lemming. 
"He's an impact player," Frank said. "He's very, very fast -a disruptive player with incredible acceleration. He's some­body that can come in and play very early and per­form well." 
While immediate playing time and a chance to com­pete for a starting position next fall were important to Goolsby, the most lasting impression of Notre Dame came in its commitment to Goolsby as a student, not just as an athlete. 
"They've been my favorite all throughout," Goolsby said. "But the main thing that got me was that they kept stress­ing the next 40 years instead of just the next four. I liked that kind of commitment. Coming out with a Notre Dame degree is special." 
IRISH NOTES: 

¦ The Irish presented their end of the year awards on Friday night at the annual football ban­quet. The award winners were: Most Valuable Player -Jarious Jackson; Lineman of the Year ­Brad Williams; Nick Pietrosante Award (the Irish player best exempli­fying courage, loyalty, team work, dedication and pride) -Lamont Bryant; Knute Rockne Student­Athlete Award -James Caputo. 
Monday, De-cembcr 6, I 999 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
WOMEN'S NCAA BASKETBALL
MEN'S NCAA BASKETBALL 
Tigers overcome Seminole scare 
Sun11Ditt achieves 
Associated Press 
AUBUHN. Ala. 

Doc Hobi11son hit one of two l'rnn throws with 2.:~ seconds lcfl us No. 7 Auburn overcame a scar(i lo beat Horidu Slate 55-54 on Sunday. 
The Tignrs (4-1) won their 20th straight home game, dnspite shooting just 31 per­cent l'rom tho floor. Auburn l'orced 2<J turnov1irs and had 
I <J offensive rcbOLmds against llrn Seminoles t:J-:1). 
Tig1•r forward Chris Portur gavn Auburn a 54-51 load on a st11al and coast-to-coast layin, but missed th1i frno throw with l: IO loft. 
Hobinson missPd tho l'ront end of' a J-ant.1-1 situation with :rt seconds to play al'ter another Porter steal. Florida State's Adrian Crawford then hit a long :{-pointer over Heggie Sharp to tie Urn gamo at 54 with 12 sN:'onds loft. 
ltobinson drovP for Lim potnnlial winning basket but was foulnd by llelvon Arrington. lie buuncl'cl his 
first !'rec throw off the back of the rim, but drained the sec­ond. 
Porter then knocked the ball awav beforn Florida State could got a shot off. Porter scored just nine points, going 3-uf-11 from the !lour, but he had three offensive rebounds down the stretch. 
He didn't make a baskut until there was 1:35 left in the first half. 
Hobinson scored a game­high 17 points and had five assists and three steals. He didn't have a bucket in the second half until his 3-pointer with live minutes to play gave Auburn a 50-47 lead. He fol­lowod that with a fallaway jumper and also had an alley­oop pass to Porter. 
But the Tigers missPd four straight shots and led just 52­51 after Damous Anderson's two free throws with 2: 26 h~J't. 
Ron Hale swred 15 points for tlrn S(lminoles. Anderson had 12 points and Crawford 1l. 
The Tigers committed just 11 turnovers and had 10 
steals in lhe first half. But Auburn's lead was just 

coaching 01ilestone 

Connecticut's lead again. Tho lluskies led by at least 13 points throughout the second half and by as many as 23. 
Connecticut shot 54.0 per­cent in the game as Swin Cash and Sue Bird scored 13 points each and Kelly Schumacher added 11. Conner:ticut held a 40-28 rebounding edge. 
Penn State shot 42.4 pr,rcent for the game and was led by Andrea Garner with 22 points and eight rebounds. Maren Walseth added 20 and Lisa Shepherd scored 10. 
No. 9 N. Carolina 106, 
Richmond 80 
Nikki Teasley scored 15 of her 24 points in the second half' Sunday, leading No. 9 North Carolina past llichmond in the consolation game of' the Wachovia Women's Invitational Tournament. 
The game was lied at 50 at halftime, but the Tar llecls (5· 
2) hit 20 of 36 field goals in the second half. A 21-5 run to start the second half' gave North Carolina a 71-55 lead with 12:15 remaining. 
Hichmond (2-4) could get no closer than 13 the rest or the game. 
No. 22 Duke 83, Virginia 62 
Georgia Schweitzer scored a earner-high 24 points Sunday to lead four players in double figurns as No. 22 Duke beat Virginia 83-62. 
Peppi Browne had 15 points, Lauren Hice a season-high 14 and Sheana Mosch 13 for Duke (6-1 overall. 1-0 Atlantic Coast Conference}. which has won 17 straight conference games at home. 
ll was Duke's second largest margin ever against Virginia. exceeded only by a 93-66 home win in 1998. 
Telisha Quarles scored 17 and Schuye LaRue 12 to lead Virginia (3-3, 0-1 ). 
Schweitzer scored 13 points in the final 8:28 of' the first half to help Duke take a 41-23 halftime lead. 
32-28 at halftime after getting outshot 53 percent to 33 per­cent from the floor. 
The Tigers shot even worse in the second half. making just 10 of :~4 shots (29 percent). Auburn was 4-of-17 from 3­point range, compared to 6-of­11 for Florida State. 
The Tigers. who made just 5 of 18 free throws against Belmont on Wednesday night, were 2-of-8 in the second half and 9-of-16 overall. 
The win was the 100th at Auburn for Cliff Ellis, a 1%8 Flor_ida State graduate, mak­ing him the fastest coach to reach that plateau at the school. It was his 158th game, while Joel Eaves did it in 165. 
No. 6 Kansas 97; Middle Tenn. St. 77 
The Jayhawks shot 65 per­cent from the floor and outre­bounded the Blue Raiders 41­31, but Williams said his Jayhawks should have played better against a team from the Ohio Valley Conference. 
"We're playing sort of un­Kansaslike," said Williams, who is 16.-0 against OVC teams. "We've always been a team that's been intelligent. That's played smart basketball and just played with a lot of savvy and a lot of pose. 
"Right now we're getting by on talent. We're definitely not getting by on coaching, and we're definitely not getting by playing intelligently." 
The Jayhawks, playing in Murphy Center because of Williams' friendship with Middle Tennessee coach Handy Wiel. his former col­league at North Carolina, had trouble putting away the Blue Raiders. 

Associated Press 
MADISON. Wis. 
With flowers from her team and a kiss from her son, Pat Summitt celebrated a victory for the 700th time in her unmatched coaching career. 
Semeka Randall's 19 points led five Lady Vols in double figures as No. 3 Tennessee beat No. 25 Wisconsin 85-62 Sunday, giving Summitt her 700th earner victory. 
Wearing a wide-collared purple suit and hor customary glower during the game. Summitt was beaming by the final buzzer. The 47-year-old coach became the youngest in college basketball to win 700 games and just the second woman to do so. 
ult feels like I've been watch­ing a whole lot of basketball in my life," Summitt said...I thought we played a great game, and the fact that it hap­pened with the way we played in this game, that's the most important thing." 
The Kohl Center crowd of 11,861, the fifth-largest ever to see a Wisconsin women's game, stood and cheered Summitt as her players gath­ered around for a giant boar hug and presented her with a bouquet of yellow roses. Her 9-year-old son Tyler also was on hand, cheering from the bench. 
"It's special. and you can reflect on it a little, but tomor­row's another workday," Summitt said. "This season isn't about how many wins I can get. It's about how we grow as a team." 
Summitt joined 16 men's basketball coaches and one women's coach -Texas' Jody Conradt, who got her 730th 
career victory Saturday -in
ATTENTION STUDENTS: 

the 700-wins club. 
No. 1. Connecticut 87, Penn St. 74 
WHY SELL YOUR USED TEXTBOOKS BACK TO THE BOOKSTORE FOR 
LESS WHEN YOU CAN SELL THEM DIRECTLY TO ANOTHER STUDENT? 
Penn State got within three 
CAMPUSMONSTER.COM ALLOWS STUDENTS TO SELL THEIR USED 
points in the first half but never threatened
TEXTBOOKS TO OTHER STUDENTS. YOU WILL MAKE MORE MONEY AND YOUR FELLOW STUDENTS WILL SAVE MORE! IT'S THAT SIMPLE. 
LOG ON NOW AND LIST YOUR FALL SEMESTER TEXTBOOKS AND GET 

ATTENTION-.. 
ENTERED FOR THE CHANCE TO WIN YOUR NEXT SEMESTERS BOOKS 
uNDERGRADuATE

FOR FREE!!!! THAT'S RIGHT. WE WILL HOLD A DRAWING ON DECEM­

AND GRADUATE

BER 30, 1999 TO FIND THE WINNER OF OUR" SEMESTER FOR FREE" 
STUDENTS

CONTEST. YOU WILL RECEIVE 1 ENTRY FOR EVERY BOOK YOU LIST. 
WORLDWIDE

THE MORE BOOKS YOU LIST THE BETTER YOUR CHANCES OF WINNING. 
WHEN YOU'RE THERE, GET THE LATEST SCOOP ON WHAT'S HAPPEN­
ENTER.COM.

ING AT YOUR COLLEGE OR AT CAMPUSES AROUND THE COUNTRY. THERE'S ALSO A SECTION WITH UP TO DATE SCORES AND COLLEGE NEWS. 
PURSUE JOB

FROM TEXTBOOK SWAPPING, COLLEGE APPAREL AND GAME TICKETS 
AND INTERNSHIP TO THE LATEST CAMPUS NEWS, IT'S ALL JUST A CLICK AWAY AT 
OPPORTUNITIES CAMPUS MONSTER.COM 
THAT SPAN THE GLOBE 

ampusCareerCenter.com
The world's largest campus job fair
PUSfflODSTBR.GOffl 


. .
"If we don't have it, you can't get it!" 



..----------------------~--~---~--~---------------------­
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, December 6, 1999 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Foul line shooting allows Bluejays to coast over Belles 
Belles missed eight points on the "We changed our line-up, and
By MOLLY McVOY 
line with less than three minutes got great play from everyone,"
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
left. Roeder said. "Kelly Jones did a 
The Belles played with heart, great job."
"If only, if only ... " were the but were out-rebounded and Elmhurst's consistent playwords echoing through the 
out-shot by Elmhurst. proved to be just enough to out­
minds of Saint Mary's basketball Saint Mary's shot only 36 per­last Saint Mary's comebacks,players on Saturday afternoon cent from the floor and· 35 per­and they got the win. after a heartbreaking loss to cent from the free throw line. The Belles went 0-2 on the Elmhurst College, 70-66. "We'll get better," Hoeder said weekend· with the Saint Mary's
ThP 13Plles repeatPdly rallied after the game. "We want to Roundball Classic, Saint Mary's to keep themselves in the game, start shooting a better percent­played its first game against
but in the end, it was 17 missed age from the floor." Marian College on Friday night free throw shots that gave the Saint Mary's would not let this and were dominated by the game tu lhe Bluejays. keep them out of the contest, Knights,
"Jr we make the free throws, however. Three times the Belles Dineen and junior Julie 
we win today," head coach Dave 
came back from a deficit of' Norman were leaders for the Roeder said. more than eight points to bring Belles, tallying lO and 13 pointsSaint Mary's was behind by the score within three, for the team, respectively, They 
more than eight points 10 differ­Sophomore Kelly Jones gave lost the game 89-52 as Marian ent times throughout the course 
the Belles the spark they needed proved to just be too much. of game. Elmhurst led by as each time they tried come back Again, rebounding was a prob­much as 14 points at one time. against the Bluejays. She led the lem for Saint Mary's and shoot­
But the Belles brought it within 
team with 15 points and five ing percentages were not up to three near the end of the game. rebounds, Also playing well for the level of the Knights. 
Saint Mary's would have won 
Saint Mary's were Anne Blair The Belles return to the court 
the game if it had made its foul and JaimP Dineen with 12 and on Wednesday against Olivet shots in the final moments. The 11 points, respectively. College. 
w w ~ , ,... ~= . .. "" = 'i:i.~ = -~ ,1, ,, ,,., ~ Xt, X ~ :;; :i:, ~
H V V ' 

KRISTINE KAAI/The Observer 
Sophomore guard Mary Campione (22) and the Belles lost two
PLEASE RECYCLE THE OBSERVER.~ 

games in the Saint Mary's Roundball Classic this weekend. 
, >« ..,. ,.,. , ~« -~ ,-i< ,-:: A , , , ~ ,._ « "' A ~ v ,v ;;:;,; ,« * ,<' ,;,,~ me ,.,.~ -«~ ~ i-:w «->«-,.,._., = 


,, 



Experi ng wi aker? 


motio resume 





oney $$$$$ 
Work for the Observer Ad Design Department 
If you are a Freshman, Sophomore or Junior with Mac skills and want to work for a few hours a week call Brett Huelat at 246-1488 or stop by the Observer office in the basement of the South Dining Hall. You will not find a better job on campus! Great Pay!! Very Flexible!!! 
& L 

Monday, December 6, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
;z a
• -0 -•• 
Riley, Ratay lead Irish to victory in Wachovia Invite 
.W411 
II The 

Moral Meaning 
..
of Genetic 


By KEVIN BERCHOU Sports Writ~r 
Winning is becoming habitu­al for the 11 th-ranknd Notre Dame women's basketball L!iam. T lw Irish enjoyed an nxtrnnwly succnssf'ul weekend, upending ninth-ranked North C11rolina by a ·score of 99-86, and Liberty 85-68 .en route to bning crowned champions or Lhe Wachovia \,\'omen's Invitational Tournam1mt. 
0ncn again, the Irish women worn sparknd by Urn spectacu­lar rlny of froshman sensation Alicia Hatay, and tournament MVP Buth Hilny. With the out­conw of' both contests still very much in doubt at thn hall'way point. Lim inside-outside duet of' Hiley and Hatay stepped to lhn fordront and took charge of thn ganrn·s outcome. 
I l was Hatay who led the ups1~t charge over the Tar IInnis, n('tting a earner-high :12 points, whiln shooting a scorching 80 p1irrnnt from the floor. With lwr team up by a S{'.Off\ of' 42-39 at the half, Halay turnnd a close game into a roul hy scoring l :~ points in a 2:l-4 run to open tlw second halt'. Hatay's big day saw lrnr drain six thnw pointers and grab six rdrnunds. 
Willi Hilny !wing clou­blntPanwd on tlw insidP, llatay was given snveral good looks at the bask!'t. and foiling lo disappoint, she made good on six of her eight attempts from behind the arc. 
Ericka Haney added 18 points and 14 rebounds in the win, while her backcourt mate, Niele Ivey, added a double­double of her own, tallying 17 points in addition to handing out 13 assists. 
Motivated by their upset win over the Tar Heels, the Irish came out looking to bring llome a tournament title as they met Liberty in the final. This time, with Liberty justifi­ably leery of Ratay's outside shooting touch, Riley saw the middle opeu up for her. For much of thfl game the Irish star had her way on the inside, taking over the game as the second half opened. 
Hiley poured in nine of her game high :l2 points to spark the Irish un a 13-6 run as the second half got underway. Single-handedly turning a close game in her team's favor, Riley's strong play gave the Irish a 52-42 !!lad they would never relinquish. 
Draining 12 or 14 shots from the floor, Hilny made lifo mis­erablo for the Lady Flames of Liberty, who saw their record fall to 2-3. The Irish, mean­while improved to 4-1 with their victories over the week­end, and return to the court against interstate rival and No. 20 Purdue Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. 
' 1, 

Join The Observer sports staff. Call Brian at 1-4543.; 
' 

--~ %(.S ,..,... ) > ,-.. ' V <' ~ ~ 
The Notre Dame Law School Natural Law Institute presents 

The Olin Distinguished Lecture Series 

Technology II 
Leon Kass. 
M.D. 

Addie Clark Harding Professor in the College and the Committee on Social Thought at the University of Chicago 
.. 

Monday. December &. 1999 4 p.m. Notre Dame Law School Courtroom 


page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, December 6, 1999 
IRISH INSIGHT 
Irish gaining experience on the court 
With a roster dominated by underclassmen, the men ·s basketball team knows this season is just getting under­way. Its players are improving and adapt­ing to the Kathleen grind of 
O'Brien 
college athletics 
every tinrn Assistant 
they set Sports Editor 
foot on the 
court. 
As the season winds along, the younger athletes learn the 100 percent effort it takes from start to finish to win a collegiate game, come to play as a team rather than as indi­viduals and stop making the mistakes common to rookies. 
"I have to be the emotional leader of this team right now until we grow up a little bit and mature," first-year head coach Matt Doherty said. "I think they did lay it on the line. Guys were all over the place, diving on loose balls. I have to grade the effort, not so much the results." 
Sophomores Troy Murphy, David Graves and Harold Swanagan have started every game for the Irish this season, along with senior Jimmy Dillon. Freshman Matt Carroll replaced senior Martin Ingelsby Saturday to earn his first collegiate start. Freshman Jere Macura also 

.. played for 26 minutes in the game against Vanderbilt. While Murphy, Graves and Swanagan all played signifi­cant time for the Irish last year, their role has changed somewhat this year. No longer freshmen, Graves ,and Murphy in particular are looked to as the go-to players on the hard­wood, the top two Irish scor­ers and rebounders. Murphy, picked in the pre­season to be one of the top players in the nation, is often double and triple-teamed, leaving him to be a team leader and find ways to break open. Murphy is averaging nearly 25 points per game and more than 11 rebounds, and has posted a double-double in six of seven games this year. 
.. 
a> &~~.A
.• ~ 
C December 9, 1999 ~ Thursday 

,. 
7-9pm
C 
Joyce Center Ice Rink 
Q) Bring your Student ID for ~ FREE ADMISSION AND SKATE RENTAL .... Hot Chocolate and ~ 
0 
cookies will be provided 
For more information, . _ 
please call RecSports at 1-6100 
'Td rather score zero points and win. No mat­ter how many points I had, we still lost. " 
David Graves Irish forward 
"Look at Troy getting the mess beat out of him and still competing, and he hit those two foul shots to put H into overtime," Doherty said. "Those guys are banging in there. He kept his composure well." 
Graves is scoring 15.3 points per game, pulling down 5.1 rebounds and averaging three assists. His potential may be largely untapped, as he had the best game of his career against Vanderbilt with 33 points and 12 rebounds to lead Notre Dame in both cate­gories. At one point, Graves hit nine points straight for the Irish to close the scoring gap from a 66-58 Irish deficit to within one at 68-67 Saturday. 
However, non~ of his per­sonal statistics matter to him if the team falls short of victo­ry. 
'Td rather score zero points and win," Graves said. "No matter how many points I had, we still lost." 
Doherty recognized the dif­ference between a young team like this year's Irish and some of the experienced squads he helped coach while at Kansas. 
"At Kansas we had Jacques Vaughn and Jerod Haase, and if we lost or didn't have great effort, they took care of it," Doherty said. "Vaughn and Haase were two amazing com­petitors and leaders, and I think we have guys capable of that, but there's a comfort zone. I think here's their [the players'] comfort zone to begin with and we've moved it towards the middle, and I want it to go all the way to the other side." 
The Irish seem to be on their way to that comfort zone. They kept the number of turnovers down to 16 against Vanderbilt, whereas at the beginning of the season, they posted more than 16 in the first half alone. 
Carroll and Macura are two up-and-coming contributors for Notre Dame this year. 
Carroll, a 6-foot-6 guard, hardly played at all in the first game against Ohio State. By the match against Vanderbilt, he had worked his way into the starting lineup, scoring 18 points in the losing effort for the Irish. His sharp-shooting touch behind the arc makes him a hot target when the Irish need a quick three-point­er. Macura is averaging about four rebounds per game. 
The effort level also seems to be rising, with several mad scrambles for a loose ball against Vanderbilt, and improving coverage on defense. 
In their first three losses this year, the Irish dug themselves into a hole early by allowing their opponent to take a large lead. Against Vanderbilt, Notre Dame came out ready to play and was ahead much of the first half before dropping to eight points behind at half­time. 
"As we grow from these experiences and they get more comfortable with the style of play and the demands that we place on them, their comfort zone will change," Doherty said. "We've got to develop new habits. and it's hard to develop new habits. They're being developed slowly but surely." 
The inexperience of the Irish showed somewhat in the first period as they were unable to contain Commodores star Dan Langhi. However, in the sec­ond period and overtime, they held him to eight points. 
Although Notre Dame's record has fallen to 3-4, no one is making the mistake of counting the Irish out as an impact squad in the NCAA. 
"The best thing is our kids hurt," Doherty said. 'Tm more excited about this team right now than I have been since our game at Ohio State." 

••SOPHOMORE ENGINEERS•• 
ARE YOU INTERESTED IN AN EXTRA YEAR AT NOTRE DAME TO STUDY THE HUMANITIES? INVESTIGATE THE JOINT ARTS AND LETTERS/ENGINEERING COLLEGE REILLY SCHOLARS PROGRAM. THIS OFFERS FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE TO ENGINEERING STU­DENTS TO ALLOW THEM TO PURSUE A FIFTH YEAR OF WORK LEADING TO A DEGREE IN ARTS AND LETTERS IN ADDITION TO THE ENGINEERING DEGREE. THOSE INTERESTED SHOULD REQUEST AN APPOINTMENT BY CONTACTING MRS. MILEWSKI AT 1-5015, 346 O'SHAUGHNESSY HALL. MORE INFORMATION MAY BE OBTAINED FROM THE SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY AND VALUES PRO­GRAM WEBSITE AT WWW.ND.EDU/~STV. 
B-ball 
continued from page 24 
Ohio State." The Irish struggled early and trailed 42-34 at the half. 
"I thought defensively we didn't do a good job guarding that lateral screen," Doherty said. "It got [Greg} LaPointe some shots and it got Langhi some shots. I thought in ihe first half Langhi was unbeliev­able." 
The Irish. however. over­came a double-digit deficit in the second half and fought their way back into the game. 
"We knew at halftime that we could compete with this team," sophomore forward David Graves said. "They hit some big shots in the first half. We name out in the second half and kept fighting. The one thing we did do is play hard. We got this into overtime. We had a chance to win, but the chips fell where they did." 
Murphy hit a three pointer with 1:30 left in regulation and made two free throws· with nine seconds left to tie the game for the first time in the half and force the over­time. 
Langhi led the Commodores 
ff"heXDMOB\f Giving ff"rtt 
Ho-by hos set up trees i.n. Notth,-S01.dh, dining h.o1k OM LoFortl.Ule wtth­o-tnrun.ents th.at hru,e 0, ehi1tl's nrun.e OM o.ge on i:t -Pfwse toke Oil o-tnrun.ent OM b~ Oil Of->f>t<>f' tiate. gift fo-t the lMs fortunate. Th.e. nom.e.s h.owe bee.n. f>t<Wided by Cotholie, Chm-~. ~ gift will be greatly Of->f>~ 
The Gwing tree will end Wed. Dee.. 8th. 
with 27 points, including four free throws in overtime. Greg LaPointe and James Strong added 14. Graves led all scor­ers with a career high 33 points. He connected on 11-of­15 shot and knocked down 5­of-6 threes. 
''I'd rather score zero points and win, said Graves who also pulled down 12 boards. "No matter how many points I had, we still lost, so rm pretty upset right now." 
Murphy scored l 7 points and had 12 boards. It was the first time Murphy was held to under 20 this season. Freshman Matt Carroll had 18 off the bench, including a three in overtime that gave Notre Dame a four point lead. 
After a 3-0 start. the Irish have now dropped four straight. Vanderbilt improves tQ 4-0 and snapped its 12­game losing streak on the road. Notre Dame hosts Valparaiso on Wednesday. 
"We have a hell of a stretch coming up," Doherty said. " I think man for man, Vanderbilt is just as good as Indiana's starting lineup. Valpo is going to be very good too. They don't have the names of Maryland or Arizona, but they're darn good teams with darn good coaches." 


l 
4 
1 
I 
I 
' 

Monday, December 6, 1999 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
-~ 

TOM KEELEY JEFF BEAM
FOURTH AND INCHES A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 
-n\lNK -:r',-.., 6oltJ6. :c \<.tJOw '{olJ 61NS ..SOM.£.,l-\l\'J6 11\P., SP.'{S AS\<. At-\~E~ t>oN', -n-llNK I --nl\S REll\11otJ.Sl1\P OVT Sl:iOUL-0, ~Ui' "'f~E({t:'5> \IJ~S f",E.MJT To 6E 50~\::"il\\NC, A'(30\JT T\tl5 otJe 

Fox TROT 
WE HAD A MARINE CORPS RECRUITER TALI( To ouR CLASS TODAY. 
\ 

CROSSWORD 
HE TOLD US ALL ABOUT THE RIGORS oF BooT CAMP: THE '+ A.M. WAI<£• UP CALLS ... THE TWENTY­MILE RUNS IN FULL COM· 
SAT GEAR.•.THE o8ST,A.­
CLE COURSES WITH 
BARBED W•RE 
AND LIV£ --­
AMMO.... 'A 
THAT  THEN HE HELO  
DoESN'T  UP FoR  
SoUNO  COMPARISON  
Too  A COLLEGE  

APPEALIN&. CALCULUS TEXTBootc.
\ I 
BILL AMEND 
HE COULDN'T SMART HAND oUT MAN. APPLICATIONS 
FAST El'loUGH. 

\ . 
It's high time the University looked Into expanding the available study space. 
beam.1 @nd edu 
55 Phone transmission 56 "Love Story" actress 58 Wind instrument 59 Severe sentence 60 Boxing site 61 Transylvanian lab assistant? 62 Came across 63 Dull, as text 64 Shut (up) 
DOWN 
1 Extraterrestrial realm 
2 With 6-Down, Citizen Kane portrayer 
3 Sound of a spring 4 Coppertone no. 5 Keep out of the rain 6 See 2-Down 7_ofWlght 8 Foxy Puzzle by Phlllp Lew 
9 Faded star 30 Friendly "Star 
10 "Shake I" Wars" creature 11 Foreshadow 31 Cheese from 12 47-Across, sheep's milk 
literally 32 It's true 15 Prison-related 36 Box tops 
18 Luau dances 37 20-20 and 7-up 20 Bluenose 39 Pago Pago site 23 Like, with "to" 
40 Patella 24 Slant 
41 Abandon the 26 Iota preceder nest 27 Its pride is its 42 Bearingpride 
44 Words on a 28 Thus 
Wonderland 29 Two semesters cake 

ACROSS 1 Weeps uncontrollably 5 [Nothing but net] 10 Midbody 
muscles 13 Stage device 14 Electrical 
pioneer _Nikola 15 Cabal's plans 16 "Like, no way!" 17 "The Breakfast 
Club" actress 19 Pro's opposite 20 "Gomer_, 
U.S.M.C." 21 Thrlll-seeker's 
cord 22 Duelist's warning 24 Actor Lugosi 25 Star of TV's 
"Veronica's Closer 
30 Image that may be burned 33 Brinker with silver skates 34 Fury 35 Break off from a mother's milk 36 • Miserables" 37 Roman wrap 38 Like some stocks, for short 39 Vaudeville bit 
41 Key of Chopin's "Piano Concerto No. 2" 
43 1980's sitcom 46 Spy Aldrich 47 It doesn't look 
good 51 Little piggy that went to market? 54 Muscat's land 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
J U N K F A X O L Y M P I A O N E L A N E D I M M E 5 T 
S T S 5 H ~:-t-::1-:-:U1-:T:1 E 

A B :::~~:=-..::. A 
P E i-,-,+-,+:-+-,M,-i F R 0 N T R A C K R O S S S E A 

45 Noted French 52 Tennis's auto race Nastase 
48 Mature 
53 Present 49 Kept going and 
54 Nabisco cookie 
going and ... 57 Dog's warning 
50 Exercise 51 Pain soother 58 Bigwig 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last SO 
years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd. edt1/ 

HOROSCOPE 
MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1999 
CELEBRffiES BORN ON TIITS 
DAY: Thomas Hulce, Don King, 
Janine Turner, Steven Wtight, Dave 
Brubeck, Wally Cox 
Happy Birthday: Get moving and don't look back. Your creative ideas need to be given a chance. Finish what you start and you won't be sorry. Take the initiative and make the changes you've been contemplat­ing. You will have to be well-orga­nized and precise in all that you do to make the most of your time this year. Your numbers: 3, 19, 24, 31, 36,43 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): It's best to take work home. You will find that someone you live with may not be too pleased, but you really can't do anything about it if you want a few extra days off during Christmas break. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Pri­vate discussions regarding money or ideas will be favored today. You should be putting money into long­term investments for future use or to ensure security in years to come. 
000 . GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your emotions will not be that easy to control. New love interests will be intense but rewarding. Look into unusual forms of entertainment if you wish to dazzle your new companion. 000 CANCER (June 21-July 22): Get trivial matters out of the way. Deal with agencies and institutions that can update your personal docu­
ments. Partnerships will be excep­tionally good if you pamper your 
mate.00000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You're all booked up. Don't make social promises that you can't possibly keep. You need to spend some time with_the youngsters in your family. 
EUGENIA LAST 
Overtime will bring you the extra 
cash you need. 00 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You 
must allow your loved ones the free­
dom to do as they please. If you limit 
them, you will only cause bad feel­
ings. Concentrate on yourself for a 
change. 0000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't 
count on getting support from your 
family. Added responsibilities will 
make your life difficult. Try to help 
others help themselves rather than 
doing all tfie work for them. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
Don't get involved in disputes; you will damage your reputation with friends and employers alike. Work diligently without complaints and rewards will be yours. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 
21): You will want to delve into new adventures. Your thirst for knowl­edge will draw you in exciting new directions. Follow your heart and don't be too concerned about your past. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
Secret love affairs may be enticing, but you must be prepared for the restraints that will follow. Listen to the advice given by those with experience.0000 
AQUARlUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
New partnerships will develop if you join groups that are concerned with helping others. You should not be supporting these organizations monetarily, but your time will be required. 00 -.... 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will aa:omr,lish a great deal at work today. Don t let peers distract you or push their workload your way. Your creative input will be appreciated by your superiors. Advancement will be yours. 00000 

Birthday Baby: You are outgoing, versatile and eager to be where the action is. Your zest for life and carefree spirit will be envied by those you encounter throughout your life. You're bright, cheerful and always ready to pursue new territory. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialasLcom, astromate.com.) 
Cl 1999 UruversoJ 1're,;s Syndicate 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name --------------------------­Address -------------------------­
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 


The Ruth, the Ruth, the Ruth is on fire 
Ruth Riley and the Irish women's basketball team 
won the Wachovia 
Invitational Tournament 
PORTS 

this weekend. 
page 21 

O
THE. page 24 BSERVER Monday, December 6, 1999 
HOCKEY 

Irish split two games with fifth-ranked Spartans 
By MATT OLIVA Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's weekend series against Michigan State marked a crucia.l point in the Irish schedule. Two games against the league leader would determine whether the irish would climb up in the CCHA standings or fall further. It was a home-and-home series between a Spartan team that was 1l-4-0 (Hl­2-0 CCHA), ranked fifth in the country. but losers in three of their last four games, and a Notre name team that improved its record to 5-7-2 (3-5-2 COIA) after a slow start, but had not defeated Michigan State at home in their last 10 meetings. 
The Irish came oul of the weekend with two points, winning the first game at home on Saturday night, before traveling to East Lansing for Sunday night's game. The Irish dropped the second game to the Spartans 4-1. The win on Saturday was the team's second strong showing versus a nationally-ranked opponent in_ the last eight days, after a hard­fought battle in a 2-1 loss at current No. 4 New Hampshire on Nov. 27. 
Saturday night the Irish defeated Michigan State 1-0, on a third-period goal by junior right wing Ryan Dolder. The goal came at the 14 minutes, 56 seconds into the period, when Notre Dame defenseman Ryan Clark's fired a shot that was deflected toward the front of the net. Dolder then beat Spartan goaltender Ryan Miller for his third goal of the season, giving the Irish the lead with five minutes left in the game. Brett Henning and Clark were credited with the assist on the game-winner. 
Michigan State made it dose in the last five 
see HOCKEY/page 18 


MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Vanderbilt pulls a-way from Notre Dame in overtime 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Sports Editor 
With 22.8 seconds left in over­time, sophomore Troy Murphy stood at half court with his hands on his head in disbelief. 
He scored on a put back that apparently gave the Irish an 84­83 lead. The announcer Men's thought so, 
Basketball 
the fans 
thought so Notre Dame 87 
and so did Vanderbilt 85 . 
Murphy. The 
one problem? The refs didn't think so. After the crowd erupted and the Irish celebrated the basket, the refer­ees called Murphy for a charge and Vanderbilt took over. 

,,. "I thought it was and one !additional foul shot]." Murphy said following Notre Dame's 87­85 loss to Vanderbilt. "You can tell as a player when a call is close or something. when it can go either way. so you check the 


"/ was {fouled on the first shot] ... I thought it was an interesting call." 
Troy Murphy Irish forward 
ref. But I didn't feel it was a close call. I thought it was and one and I was getting ready to shoot a free throw. 
"[It wasI unbelievable," Murphy continued. "It should have been a no call, if any­thing." 
Murphy got the no call on the play before. He pump faked in the lane, got his defender in the air, leaned in and missed the shot. The ref didn't blow his whistle, but when Murphy got his owQ rebound and scored, the whistle blew. 
"I was (fouled on the first shot]." Murphy said. "That's what I initially tried to do. I tried to pump fake and Jean in and get the foul. That obviously didn't go. And then I got the rebound and I was under the basket and he thought it was a charge. It was an interesting call." 
Following the call, the Commodores' Dan Langhi was fouled and made two free throws to give Vandy an 85-82 lead. Murphy had a chance to tie it, but his three point attempt missed and Vanderbilt went on to win. It was Notre Dame's sec­ond straight overtime game and for the second straight time, the Irish faced defeat. 
"Our kids did lay it on the line, but we came up short," head coach Matt Doherty said. "The best thing is our kids hurt. They hurt. There's tears in here and that's great. I'm more excited about this team right now than I have been since our game at Ohio State." 
The Irish struggled early and 
see B-BALL/page 22 
SPORTS 

vs. Valparaiso at Purdue Men's Swimming vs. Massachusetts Wednesday, 7:30 p.m. Wednesday, 7:30 p.m. at LSU Friday, 7:05 p.m.
ATA 

Wednesday, All Day
GLANCE 





