
Guilty As Charged

Bengal Bouts 
Wednesday

¦ A Texas jury convicted John William King for 
¦ Semifinals will be held at 7 p.m. ronight. 
last June's racial slaying. 
See The Observer's previews. 
FEBRUARY 

Sports• 20-21 

World & Nation • 5 
24, 1999 


THE 



The Independe11t Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 96 WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 

Honor ~~r1uet calls ND students to live generously 

By KYLE ANDREWS News Writer 

Fu turn business lcad1:rs ha vc a r1\sponsibility to contrihutl' to tlrn build­ing of a better i\mcirica. Hoxannn Spillett, prnsident of the Boys and Girls Club of' America. said at. the induction banquet or tlrn Br,ta. Gamma Sigma business honor sociuty. 
Sp i11 (J t t prnised mo r 11 th a n 7 0 inductcos for their accomplishnw11ls and thr,ir commitmnnts to making a dif'­fnrcmcn, not only in the businnss corn-. munity hut l'or tlrn l'uturn of' Urn world as well. 
"This country nr,cds you, not just f'or business, but-f'or the business of J\rrnffica," said Spillett. "J\s the f'uturn business leaders of J\merica, I encour­age you to think now what kind of con­tributions and legacy you will leave, not only to the business world but to the 
. communitv." 

In 100· years, the size of bank accounts and houses will not mattr,r. It is the influence over the lives of chil­dren that will become the greatest con­tributions, said Spillett. 

Campuses work towards diversity 
By RUTH SNELL N,w, \Xlrirn 
i\mi<I co11stant at.lPntion to plans l'or divPrsifying tlw sclmols' prPclominantly whil1• 1·amp11s!'S, Snint Mary's anrl Notre Dami' c:011ti111rn to plan for tlrn recruit­nwnt and rotnnlion of' multicultural stu­dnnls. 
Both schools have seLs ol' procmlurns for attracting and rntaining under-rnp­rnsnntPd sl.udnnts. 
HFC!Hllrt:...1; P!J\"IS 

Saint tl.lary·s plan for rncrui'ting minol'ity stucl(!nts is "comprelrnnsive land I indudPs all sPgmnnts of thn popu­lation... acTording to Mary Pat Nolan, din•1:lor of admissions at Saint Marv's. 
Initially, S:tint .Mary's usns ccillcg11 :warch inl'ormatio11 from standardiznd col11•g11 1inlranc11 nxams to identify minority studnnts and start direct mail campaigns. Tlrny also 11s11 high school visits, coll!•gn fairs and mforrnls to idun­til'y minority studPnl'i. 
=•wr, s1•1·1•('.l stuclt)lltS who rit tlrn description or !what w1i'r11I looking for, arnl11m1ir prnfil<•. t<ist l'I\SUILs and l'th­nirity or men," Nolan said. "If thny rc•sponcl, tlll'n WI' h1igin to s11riously rPnuit and court tlwm. Our S(dling points am acackmh: qualily and lthat we an•l u Cnl.holk wompn's rollng<' and all that it c•ntails." 
Sninl Marv's also works with thn National llisj)anic lnslitut<i (NIii) and llH\ National Scholarship Service and Fund for Negro Sturlc•nts INSSl•NS), whil'h has nxpandcid to include all ruinoritins, to i1klltify prospnctivll minority studnnts. Both ol' these organi­zations ol'f<>r national collngn !'airs to rm:rnit mirrnrity stlldn11ts. 
Saint Mary's usl's t!rn Collt•gn Board s,Tvic•~ lo idPntil'y minoritiPs altwo-y,•ar l'olkgns who mny bn intcrnstnl in con­tinuing t!wir l'dtication at Saint Mary's. 
"WP lry lo lmvc a balancnd approach on rnnuiting all minority stndlmts," 
Nolan said. 

Tim Ol'ficl1 of Multicultural Affairs, which docs not actively recruit at Saint Mary's, works with the J\dmissions 0tncc on two programs, "My First Day on Campus" and "Encuentro," tn intro­duce high school minority students to Saint Mary's . 
"They are a very important part of our outreach lo multicultural students," Nolan said. If we "start cmrly, (lhcrr,'sl morn timr, for r,xploration." 
"Encuenlro," Spanish l'or "to.find," was started to combat a high drop-out ratr, of Hispanic women from high school, but has now switched focus. A two-wncik surnmnr program. "Enctrnntro" giv1is Latina high school 
'WE 
ENCOURAGE STUDENTS 
NOT TO ASSIMILATE, BUT 

STAY TRUE TO WHO THEY ARE, AND 
NOT SELL OUT. WE ASSIST IN SELF­
EXPLORATION.' 

!ms {}/ITfAW 
/)/fi[i(.'7()1{ OF MIILJ'ICUI.TUJII\I. At•i'i\lUS 
students a collogo cxpcrinncc wlrnrc they samplo dassns and focus on acacle­rnics. as well as their cultural and spiri­tual lives. 
It is "emerging as a rccn1itmr,nt tool, hut still tril's to allow students to drr,am that a college r,ducation is attainable," nxplaincd Maria Oropeza, director or Saint !vlary's multicultural affairs. "This is not 111H:ossarily tho cairn with mnny Latinas becauso parnnts do11 't S('t the prccnd1int for a collP-gc education." 
"My First Duy on Campus'' brings high school f'reshmen and sophomores to camnus and snts up a classroom experi­ence, whPre thny are paired with Saint 
Mary's students. The program "emphasizes a worth­while collcgn cxpericncr,," Oro1mza said. 
Oropr,za noted that two-thirds of mul­ticultural students am their families' lirst generntion in college, whiln two­thirds of whit<) studr,nts come l'rom fam­ilios with college educations. 
Notre Dame's minority recruitment plan attempts to rnach out to high school students. 
"Certain programs like thr, Fall Open House and Spring Visitation Wr,ekcnd !target minority students]," ·said .Jamr,s Hilny, admissions counselor and coordi­nator of Asian-American recruiting at Notre Dame. 
An early step, Fall Open !louse in October, invites minorities selected through an S/\T search to campus to stay with current students. 
Spring Visitation Weekend is l'or all minority students acceptr,d to Notrn Damo. 
'"It's to snn if they're very serious about coming to Notre Damr,, and wr, pay l'or all expr,nses," Hiley said. 
The admissions ollice emphasizes cor­t.ain selling points dur.ing campus visits. 
''When they are coming to visit, lwe trv to show that thero am! morn mimiri­ty" st.uclnnts than they think," Hilny said. "We also lry tu highlight graduated minorities f'rom Notrn Dame who are actual leaders, hopn for them after graduating f'rorn Notrn Damo." 
RETENTION RATES 
Aftnr the schools have succnssful admitted minority students, they thr,n focus on keeping them enrolled. 
At Saint Mary's. the minority student population comprises from <> to 6.7 per­cont oJ' tho total student body. The matriculation rato· for minority students is 7 percent, and graduating studnnt body comprised of minorities is 7 per­cent. On average, 76 percr,nt of' Saint 
see PLANS / page 8 

"Wn want to inspirn and !)nahln all young peopln, nspN'-ially tlwsn from disadvant.agnd situ11!io11s, to rnach tlwir l'ull potential as produrt.ivn and rnring citiznns," said Spillnlt. of' tlw mission or till' Boys and Cirls Club of !\ml'l'irn. 
llvnn with all tho s11rcPss tlrn Cluh is nx1wrin11dng. Spillott ,~mphasizc•d thal "today is today and tomor-row is tomor­row." 
It is up to thc l'utun• i\11wrirnn liusi­11nss load1:rs lo contimw tlw f'ight to kr,cp kids off tlin strn11ts and giw Ilw111 a safe placn to play and work, shP emphasized. 
Thn prnsr,nt Board of c;ovnrnors for tho Boys and Cirls Club includns Fallwr Edward Malloy, Colin Pow11ll and tlw CEOs of Coca-Cola, i\11-Statn and many otlrnr major corporations. Spillntt said they dedicate a larg11 amount of timn and energy to help tlrn Boys and Girls Club. 
Thorn are prnsently morn than 2,300 Boys and Girls Clubs in J\m1irir.a, with 261 of them opr,ning in 1998. The Club plans to continue tlrnir oxpansion in tlw futurr,. 
see BANQUET/ page 4 
Staples: Even kids worry about diets 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE News Writer 
Valerio Staples wants to rewrit<1 the rules. 
An oating disorder specialist from Memorial Hospital. Staples bnlieves that the conventional battle against eating disorders is not convincing women to be happy with their body image but is instnad finding ways to change the appearance stand11rds society sets for women. 
"We need to pay attention to what the messages have l>Pon sinco WP wore young. Wn need to .oxaminn how those rules have changBd and whether they still apply now," Staples said Tuesday in a l<:-ctuni tillnd "Mirror, Mirror." 
Staples attributed one of tho causes of' eating disonfors in 11dolesc1rnce to messages womon recoive from thoso around them earlier in lif'n. Tlwse problematic messages e111phasiz~1 appearance rather than pnrsonality. 
"When my daughter was young, peo­ph! would say wlrnt b(HtUl.iful blond hair she had," Staplos st\id, "but. at homo. we tried to focus on accom­plishments instead, to emphasize that what she look11d like was not. tfa1·most important. tt 
Today, messages of aestlrntic beauty typically begin to tak11 their toll prior to adolescence, eal'linr than they did in the past., Staples said. Children are encountering problnms with WPight eontrol 1iarlinr in thoir livr.s, which is evidenced by statistics thnt show that 40 percent" of nine-year-olds have 
see KIDS / page 4 


___________,_.....,__________ 
. 

page 2 The Observer• INSIDE Wednesday, February 24, 19')9 
¦ INSIDE COLUMN 

Listen to the Tale, Respect the Teller 
My Martin Luther King day was ruii1ed. Don ·t g<:'t me wrong. The l\otre Dame and Saint Mary's community did a good job this year cele­brating the day and r.ommemorating lhe man. But this is to bfl expr~cted. It is such an esp(wially important holiday for America to take pause and rnmcmbr.r the efforts of Dr. King. It was encour­aging to see Notre Dame make a special attempt 
to do just that. 

But unclc~rneath the pub­lic display of reverence and appreciation one could still hear some com­mon rumblings about Dr. King: "He had a different woman in 1:wery town he went;" "lie did this:" "Ile 

did that." It is these  Eduardo Llull  
strikes against him that  Viewpoim Ediror  
frustratn me so every  

year. and manage to ruin the clay's celebration for me. Of course these revisions of Dr. King's character have not always been simply private. There was an entire article in Time or Newsweek, I can't remember which, a couple of years ago that tried to bring us the "real" Dr. King through rBI investigations and witnesses to his secret, deviant lifestyle. 
I will not go into specifics here. Nor will I delve into the legitimacy of these claims. The point is that for some reason people feel the need to tear down men and women like Martin Luther King who have been raised to hero's status. This is a more recent trend, and it is applied to anyone and everyone who has been placed on a pedestal like King has. People think we are dis­covering our true history in this way, when in actuality we are clouding, if not destroying, our precious past. 
What good does it do to teach our children that George Washington was a slave owner? This was true of course -and not surprising seeing as Washington was a Virginian aristocrat -but docs that destroy his well-earned title as Father of Our Nation? Does that erase the effort he made through his own strength, courage and integrity to hold the shaky union between the States in tact? 
What good does it do to teach our children that Thomas Jetrerson was not only a slave owner. but had sexual relations with his slaves as well? Does this dilute a life spent in pursuit of liberty and independence, a life which led to our independence as a nation and laid a strong foundation for the 11edgling republic? Of course not. 
Abraham Lincoln freed the slaves. Hight? Not according Lo "truth-seeking" revisionist histori­ans out there. It was simply_ scmnd military strat­egy. Lincoln was in fact a racist and never would have freed anybody ifit wouldn't have benefited the war effort. Military strategy or not, racist or not, Lincoln made one of the most gutsy moves in our history by signing the Emancipation Proclamation. It changed this nation forever, and it may have cost him his life in the end. 
It does not hurt to recognize that none of these men were perfect, hut it should not be used to destroy what they meant to our nation. They are remembered for a cause. What good does it do us to accentuate their imperlilctions? In fact. I propose we do the opposite. Every year we should remember these heroes and raise them to even greater heights -let their greatness swell everv time we utter their names. 
It boils down to this: it is not just the hero we celebrate but thii very cause that they embody. Sn let us view historical figures not only with empathy for the time in which they lived and for being part of an imperfect human race. but also with a purposeful detachment allowing us to appreciate their lives· work and the causes for which they fought. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are lhose of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
¦ TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Scene  
Derek Bercher  Emmett Malloy  
Lisa Maxbauer  Graphics  
Maggy Tinucci  Pete Cilella  
Laura Rompf  Production  
Sports  Kerri Smith  
Mike Connolly  Lab Tech  
Viewpoint  Peter Richardson  
Eddie Llull  

rhc Observer (USPS :i99 2-4UOO) is published Monday ,hrough Frid,y except during ~xam and vac2tion periods. The Observ,:r ;s a member of 1he Associat,d Press. All repmducrioo rights are reserved 





utside the Dome 
Compiled from UWire reports 

Officials consider plan to make room for more grad students 
BERKELEY. C.alif. 
The number of graduate students in the UC system is dwindling to such a lm~ point that UC of'f1cials are consid­ering a plan to make room for more graduate students. 
As a research institution, the UC system often prides itsPlf' on molding qualified graduate students for the California work force, said UC presi­dent Richard Atkinson. But after a decade of fervently trying lo accom­modate record numbers of under• graduate students, UC officials are concerned that there are not enough seats for graduate studPnts in the UC system. 
While undergraduate enrollment in the UC system has grown 100 percent in ihe past 30 years. the number of graduate spaces i.n thfl university has remained relatively stagnant, and is now lower than it was ten years ago, according to recent studies. 
¦ UNIVERSITY OF \\f!SCONSIN Vote raises campus minimum wage 
MADJSON, Wis. 
The campus minimum wage will increase by 50 cents. following a UW-Madison committee's vote Monday to raise all studont wages by 9.52 percent. The Student Employment Wage Plan Committee report will be for­warded to Vice Chancellor John Torphy, who is expected to approve the committee's recommendations. Once for­m ally approved, the campus minimum wage would increase to $5.75, with workers at an intermediate level earning $6.25. The salary for advanced employees will rise to $6.80. Effective in August. the wage increase will be applicable to students employed in student unions, recreational sports facilities, health services and campus libraries, among other activities. Monday's vote followed an ongoing debate over campus wages. Student activists have argued wages have not kept up with inflation, while administrators say tight budgets cause salary constraints. 
¦ BOSTON UN!VERS!TY Reporter criticizes museum ethics 
BOSTON. Mass. 
A reporter for The Boston Globe Monday called on muse­ums to set an ethical example and criticized the Museum of Fine Arts for failing to tell the public a painting displayed last fall may have been stolen during the Holocaust. Walter Robinson, The Boston Globe's Spotlight Team editor, intro­duced an audience of 30 people to what he called the largely unregulated business of art-collection and museum acquisi­tions. Robinson, who has written a series of articles over the past two years detailing allegations that several paintings in major museums may have been stolen by the Nazis during World War II. discussed several occasions in which muse­ums were not completely honest with the public about the background of specific works of art. "Whenever you have a commodity that is traded internationally with virtually no regulation, there's some potential for underhanded deal­ings," Robinson said. 
Atlanta 46 35 Denver 65 30 NewYor~ J5 20 
Austin 70 40 Farg() 33 24 Phoenrx 82 4ll 
Boston 31 13 Louisville 42 31 San Diego 74 so
Q,~,QQ.'Sd8 !) ~ u 
Chicago 37 26 Omaha 50 2J SI. Paul 38 21
Showers T-storms Rain F/u"ios Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
CrllUmbus 40 26 NewOr1eans 70 44 Tampa 67 44
Via Associated Press GrsphicsNet 


In addition, the state of California is currently one of only five states to show a decline in graduate llT)roll• ment in the past decade, ranking alongside Arkansas, Connecticut, Oklahoma and Kansas. 
"California has shrunk in graduate r,ducation while competitors have grown steadily," said UC Vice Provost Judson King. "Graduate enrollment is critical to many industries. We have a significant need to generate capacity for students." 
¦ THE OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY 
Ambassador addresses alma mater 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 

The Macedonian ambassador to the United Statos-an OSU alumna -urged audience members to work toward peace, stability and cooperation in the Balkans, as she addressed a group of about 50 in Oxhiy Ila!! on Monday. "Every day some part of the Balkans is in the news. unfor­tunately because of their problems," said Ambassador Ljubica Acevska .. "What happens over there affects every­one -students, professors and private citizens." In 1991. The Republic of Macodonia gained independence peace­fully, sought respect and opted for good relations with all of its neighbors, Acevska said. The republic's stratngic goal is to become a stable part or Europe and the Balkans, she said. Maintaining good relations with neighboring countries is a vital element to peace in the Balkans, Acevska said. Currently, Macedonia and Greece enjoy very good relations because they resolved problems peacefully. 
¦ Ur-mrrnsnv or kuNois, 
Salmonella research targets cure 
CIIAMl'AIGN. Ill. 

A University professor hopes his salmonella research will 
help keep the disease-causing organism quiPt. Hichard 
Isaacson. professor of veterinary pathobiology, said learning 
to manipulate salmonella could protect humans from its 
effects. "I don't know if we can eliminate it," Isaacson said, 
"but I think we can control it." lsaacson's research aims to 
control the "Salmonella typhimurium" strain, one of more 
than 2,000 identified salmonella strains. This form, he said. 
exists in both an active and dormant form. In the dormant 
form, infected animals oftPn show no sign ofillnPss. Humans 
eating meat from dormant animals. however, can still !'all ill. 
In addition to the disease's stPalth capabilities, it is also 
widespread. In lsaacson's research, he studied pigs. a com­
mon host ol' the organism. "Probably 80 or 90 percent of the 
farms we're sampling have at one time had salmonella in 
pigs," he said. 
A contributor lo these stagnant numbers could bfl the st.ate budget. which is often comprised of' misdirect­ed priorities, according lo state Superintendent Delaine Eastin, a member of the Board of Begen ts. 
"Universities receive nine percent of the state budgrit," Eastin said. "Pris~ns receive mm·e than nine per­cent. 
Faced with a string of record­breaking numbr,rs of undergraduatn applicants into the UC system overthti,/L tr~ears. university and state 
oft• · avri focused their efforts to increas11,0 rndnrgraduatn nnrollment capacity. 
Further, in preparation ror the trenrnndous influx of' students oxpect­ed to seek UC admission through the new millennium -duhbed "Tidal Wave II" UC and state politicians are constructing new buildings and facilities, including UC Merced. 

¦ Sourn Brno WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high lempera!ures 
H L Wednesday~ 36 24 
!  ·•;;'·  
Thursday  ~  39 28  
Friday  ~,4~ 29 
• •,:_  ;;,,  .  '  .  ,,.'  ,,,  •,»  
' Saturday  Q,45 36  
,,,,~  •  ,<  
lSunday  _,,~-46 31  

;(5' \tt,,,....... ";-.-/\.:~~ 
¦ NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeather<> forecast for noon, Wednesday, Feb. 24. 
408 FRONTS: 
.................... ~ 

© i999 AccuW~thtn, IAC. COLO WARM STATIONARY 


Wednesday, February 24, 1999 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Class government hopefuls outline platforms 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
New, Wri1t•r 
C:anrlidatcs vying for positions on thf' l')99-2000 Saint Mary's class govnrnments 1110l Tuesday ni~ht. at llw 11111111c1l "Camlirl;itos Night" to ,kfond thdr platforms ancl nxt'l1ang1' id1ias for tfw 11prn111ing y,mr. 
CiASS 01' :WOO 

OIT-c.ampus com111unkation may lw rnw of' thn higgnst proh­!Pn1s that Lht' Class ol' 2000 will fon· 111•xt yl'm with 40 1wrcnnt ol' lht• s1111ior !'lass moving off­campos. 
Tlin tick<-! o!' Beth Bnatty, 
~ ..":·:
.:-:: t: 
-¥1'·,~mner, 1 eo: ou es, · · · and a whole lot of talking! 
~..~...... . . 
..,!_~? Come and let's talk about 
~\!P the miseducation of being biracial! 
~ 


ABSENTEE BIDDING AVAILABLE 
Place your bid today on exciting Notre Dame items including: 
• Notre Dame Honorary Coaching Positions: Become an honorary coach for the Spring Game on April 24, 1999, including the pregame luncheon, meetings, giving an inspirational pregame talk to your team, being on the sidelines and even calling a few select plays under the guidance of the coaching staff. 
Football Fantasy 

Center for the Homeless 
Auction '99 
Saturday, March 6, 1999 5:30-10:00 PM at the South Bend Century Center 
Four ti~kets to the ND vs. Michigan State game on Sept. 18, 1999, with limo service to and from the game (restricted to St. Joseph County), and dinner at the Morris Inn following the game. 
• Armchair Quarterback Attend the team mass, have sideline passes and visit the locker room after either the Michigan State, Oklahoma, or USC home game. 
• Trojan War Four airplane tickets and four game tickets to the ND vs. USC game on Oct. 16, 1999, with four tickets to the College Football Hall ofFame and a room at the South Bend Marriott. 
• Dinner with the Presidents 

Dinner with Father Malloy and Father Beauchamp; Dinner with Father Hesburgh and Father Joyce. 
• Season Football Tickets, and Tickets to Away Games 
For more information or to place an Absentee Bid calf Drew Buscareno at (219) 282-8700, extension 312. 
office would allow for better representation. 
"Half of our board is on cam­pus, and the other half is off," said Beatty. "We don't considor having off-campus students a disadvantage. It allows us to roprescnt tho class as a whole and increase community." 
Other topics discusstid involved commencement. improved alumni-student rela­tions and a snnior tailgatn. 
A tailgate to increase att1m­dance at athletic events was an idoa that tho Donovan and Beatty · platforms pushed. Athletic support was also key in the Pangilinan platform. 
"We want to find a way to show more spirit," Burke said. The platform includes a propos­al tu decorate Angela Athletic Facility. showing signaturns of support for Belle athletos around the facility. 
All three tickets strnssed the importance of preserving tho memories of senior year. The Donovan and Pangilinan tickets involved the compilation of a memory book and the Donovan and Beatty tickets suggestnd a countdown to graduation events. 
Pangilinan said she would also like to recognize gradua­tion throughout the year by developing an event to comple­ment graduation. 
CL.ASS OF 2001 

Multicultural awareness. real­world preparation and class unity wern topics that dominat­ed discussion among the three tickets vying for junior class positions. 
The Autumn Palacz, Julia Malczynksi, Gina Case and Alyson Leatherman ticket emphasized the need for a "Heal World" coordinator on the class board to assist stu­dents with internsl1ip and career advice. 
"As juniors, we arc facing entering the real world," said Pa!ar.z. "This is something that students in all departments can benefit from." 
Class unity and increased par­ticipation from the class body were topics on .Jillian Koepkn, Molly Banahan, Melissa Bittner and Olivia Pisano's ticket 
One of tho highlights of this initiative were more social events, including an all-male pageant 
"We were not involved in gov­crnment our freshman year," said Banahan. "But being on the outside allows us to know what we nend to do to gnt poo­plc involv11d. We know tht\ typ1\ of activitios that we would havn gotten involver! in oursnlv11s, so we know what to do to g,~t peo­ple involwd." 
The Molly Kahn, Allison Webb. Alice Fox and Annie Holfos ticket emphasizes tlw 1rned for incrnasod multicultural involvenrnnt. Their platform includes a push f'or a multicul­tural class 1wn11t once a month. 
"Wu can do son11ithing likn have a study break and make sugar skulls· for the day of tl111 doad in Novembor," Kahn said. "We'vn mot with tlrn Office of Multicultural Affairs and am ready to start planning idoas this summer." 
All groups also expressed a 

desire for furthnr tochnology for 
student govnrnment. Both tlrn 
Kahn and l'alacz tickots said 
they plan to implemnnt a class 
e-mail address and Web pagn lo 
further communication. 
CIASS 01' 2002 

Michelle Nagle. Katie O'Connnll. Mandy Schomas and Katy Robinson may f'1rnl that experience is what makes theirs the ticket votors should choose on Thursday, but tlrnir competi­tors Shannon Rodgers, Stof',inio Hoth, Cara Dunbar and Liz ClingM argue that fresh faces and nr,w ideas am what llrn sophomorn class will rrnml for innovation in tho upcoming year. 
Rodgers, Roth, Dunbar and 

Clinger contend their lack of 
experionce in the Board of' 
Governance is a distinct advan­
tage. 
"Tim fact that we don't have cxpnrinpce probably is scary to a 1() t {) r pC () p I(1 0 II t tlrn I' (1. n Hodgnrs said. "But w11 arn dndi­cated and rn11 d y to f'igll I l'o r what the class wants." 
Frnsh man class prnsid1i11 t Nagle disagreed. sayi11g that Urn def'nnding board's nxpnrinncn was a factor allowing for smooth govnrnnrnnt in !.Im com­ing year. 
"We hav,1 experience, WI' know how tlrn class works. Wn had a hard knocking with rPali­ty this year, but wn know how lo make tlrn class work. WP havn a clear !inn of what wn want to accomplish," said Nagln. 
That was evident, Bobinsnn added, by tlrn goals on their platform. The Nagln platl'orm featurns five goals: a sophomore support group, class mnntings, a board mentoring program for freshmen, monthly service pro­jects with SUIW and plans for Sophomore Parents Wceknnd. 
The Rogers platform includns several goals, some of' which includn volunteer initiatives such as Christmm, baskots for the 111rndy, an off-campus for­mal. multi-cultural apprnciation week, increased intnraction with Notre Dame, a sophomore tailgat<', a memory hook, spirit days for Bolles and initial.ion of a strong push to improve dining hall services. 
"Whnn wn startnd out, we had so many ideas," Hobinson said, "But we know .that our fivn goals arti things we arn going to obtain." 
The dedication and onthusi­asm on the Hogers tickt\t was unparalleled, lfogors said. 
"The officers this yoar have been great role models," slrn said. "Not being involv11d in stu­dent govm-nrncnt first smnostnr put us in a position t.o watch. Now wn'rn rnady to makn n dif• foroncn." 
Kathy Iloron, Bridget Egan and Kathy Stcinlage f'mphasizes incrnasnd communication for off-l:am pus studenls, suggesting that an off-campus representa­tive be clcr.lcd to the senior r:lass hoard. 
Additionally. an o-mail addrn!-ls and a Wnh pagi\ along with a monthly nowsletl11r. will incrnasc the tlow of comrnuni­t:ation. 
The lickPt of Ann Pangilinan. l'enclop11 Kistka. Claire Burke and Kat Hademach1w also plan tri include off-eampus liaisons at tlrn various apartmcnl complcx­ns. 
The ticket of Maureen 

Donovan, Allison Wade, Emily Junius and Agnes Bill empha­sized off-campus communica­tion and increased alumnae relations. 
"It's something that can be done in lhnlli parts," Junius said. "We've talked to Barbara llnnry in alumnae relations, and there are several alumnan who want to come back to speak with us about career opportunities and other post­graduation issues. Most will do it on their own dollar, too, which \Nill hdp." 
All thrne tickets said that hav­in~ a mix of on-campus and off­campus students running for 



Wednesday, February 24, 1999
The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS 
page 4 

Banquet 
continued from page 1 
There is still much more to be done. said Spillett. 
Spillett concluded by show• fng a video of Colin Pow1>.II at the dedication o!' the 2,000th Boys and Girls Club. 
Observing tlrn new facility, Powell nuted that the same amount of material would be needed to make a jail. We n1rnd to "stop building jails and start building children;" he said "We don't have anything more important to do than put these children on the road to 

Kids 
continued from page 1 
admitted to dieting. 
"When I first got into this profession. we were talking about doing Jcating disorqor] pnwcntion in high school," Staples said. "Now we are 
success." 
Spillett has work1>.d with the Club since 1978, serving as vice president of the North East division before her work 
as president. 
Beta Sigma is the national 
honor society for students in 
business created in 1913 to 
reward academic accomplish­
ment in business and to pro­
mote integrity and honesty in 
the business world. 
The lndiana chapter was 
started at Notre Dame in 
1963. Ramachandran 
Ramanan, associate professor 
of accountancv at Notre Dame, 
serves as the· group's faculty 
advisor. 
talking about beginning it in elementary school." 
Messages of body image are not something that can easily be changed, Stapies said, particularly later in life. 
"I try and emphasize that it is not what you see in the mirror, but what you bring to the image in the mirror that counts." she said. 

Thanks for reading The Observer. 


Interested in World & Nation nefl's'l Call Tim aLoul joining Tl.e OLser'"t'er's staff as a fl'ire editor, 1-5323. 
! 





Transfer Orientation 
Co-Commissioner's Applications 
*Available for 1999-2000 academic year. *Pick up and drop off applications in Student Gov't office, 203 LaFortune. *Applications available starting Tuesday 2/23. *Applications due Thursday March 4. *Sign_ up for interviews when you drop off your apllication. *Interviews on March 16. *Plan and coordinate transfer orientation events. 
Student 
,·remment Student\Government. 
I 
'-. / ', . i . 
----~ 
Business & S.,irftu.-lily DotLeymix'f 
Women Pastors of Michiana Present 

CLaDenges and 


~-.. of
'-'PPorl1¦ 11d:ies 
Managing a Min:istry 
Kaye Ferguson-Patton St. Paul's United Methodist Church Mary Hubbard Central United Methodist Church Regina Wilson St. Joseph Church Tina Velthiuzen Church of the Holy Trinity 
WHEN? WEDNESDAY FEBRUARY 24 WHERE? COBA ROOM 162 TIME? 3:45-5:00 p.m. 
PRESENTED BY COBA DIVERSITY 
-

WeJnesd,1y, February 24, 1999 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 

¦ WORLO NEWS BRIEFS 
Authorities arrest Most 
Wanted list's No. 1 
MILWAUKEE 

Thi' N11. I fllgitivP on t!w U.S. Marshals Sl'rvirP "I :i Musl Wantnd" lisL was arrnstml in (;ual<'mala whih-working as a tour guidn, ortidals said. l'ntPr Paul Zink HI, who llnd d1argm; 1h111 hi' 11p1•ra!iid a largn cocai1w ring in Wi,a:011si11, was arn•ste<I Monday in tlw Tikal rc•gio11 whil1· working under llrn 11,111111 Marcos l'otts, tlrn marshals snrvicn ~aid in a slatomont. Zink, 43, hatl bnon ~oughl sinr.P lw faili•d Lo appear for trial in I<J88 011 !'Pch•ral charg«)S nl' conspiracy to dis­lrihuti· l'oraitw. Ile was also wantrd on mur­rlPr-soliri la linn and othl'r rhargns in 1'P1wslw County l'nr alh·gc•clly hiring a gun­man lo kill a puli1'.I' informant in )<)87. Zink liatl family 1:011111H·tions in c;uatnmala and was h1•liPvl'd to havf' f1NI t.lwrn soon all11r !111 disapp«'ar!'d, rhid dqwly C.S. Marshal .Joe lrinclal said. 
Referee kills soccer player 
.IOI I/\NNl!SllUJ{(;, South Africa 

A South African rd'ernr. shot and kil11\cl a 
play<'r during a so<T<~r match al'tr.r Urn play-
1•r. angry ovPr a disputml goal. lunged at 
him with a knifo. polic11 said Tuesday. Isaac 
Mkhw11tha, tl1P 20-ycar-old captain of tlrn 
local Wallabir.s socrPr tr.am. was fatally 
wounded 011 the 1ield in front of f>OO spncta­
tors. Hcf1•rtw Lehogang Petrus Mokgnthi. 34, 
appParPcl in court Tunsday and plmtdnd not 
guilty lo thP.' killing, said police captain Louis 
.larnbs. IIP was rPlcuscd on bail pPnding an 
/\pril I rnurt appearance. The shooting 
occ·ttrr«~d Saturday in a stadium in 
I fartlwnsfonlein. a black township 125 milns 
southwest or Johannesburg. al'ter the Try 
/\gains, another locul team, scored against 
the Wal!abins. Somo Wallabies fans rnn onto 
the lfold to protest Lim goal, which had cut 
Llw Wallabies' lead to 2-1. Jacobs said. 
Hundreds attend Siskel's funeral 
IIIGIIJAND PAHK, Ill. 

Film critic (;pno Siske! was remembered as a publir man who loved his private lifo. More than l ,200 people attended his funeral Monday. including Oprah Winfrey, Christie lldrrnr and Siskel's longtime television parl­nPr, Bog,ir Hmrt. Mayor Richard Daley can­cidnd sclindulml campaign slops lo attend the sPrvic1• al a Jewish synagogue on the wooded shore of' Lakn Michigan. "lie breathed and slPpt Chicago and his love of our sports, love of politics," Daley said. "And of course, always his revinw of films was a highlight !'or mysdl' and, 1 think, not nnly for Chicagoans, but for pnoplc) who truly lovnd the arls." Sisknl died Salurclay al 5:J from complica­tions l'ollowing surgtiry lo rnmuvc a growth from his brain in May. 
Market Watch: 2/23 Dow 
AMEX: 
700.92

]ONES 
dlS') Up: t,7;!7
Nasdaq: 2,.U<d5



9,rii.42 Bl
d4..H 
NYSE: 
Uown:
598.02 
1150 

'\} 
2.21 
S&P 500: 
1275.00 
Composi1c
+0.50 
Volume: -8.26 718,400,000 

VOLUME LEADERS  
sn~u•4~~  IH t:l·H  '~d !D?S(il  1 h~I~  CRH'!•  
,\MUt0'\11.1\:F  ,\OI  +l IA  +I ~001 .  Ht-1.0  
PIIJn>MNllllt Ml4:l-1.4)""l! It l)IU' < n11:1Hllil' 1~1  01],[ >NI' '  +2.~7 +•i.-15 +•I ti1  +2. !8Sl) +-(J,62/~ +2 7525  K7.III, 1;~ 44 IK.H  
1:-..ll'tLl'Olll'  l>l'I <  tl,{l~  +1-H?~  IH.2~  
( J'tLO\r\/j\tli t <"lMl'All ( '( 1\!11lll I· R 1 • l'kAll .. liltOHI' « 11.\,\t (HW Yi\!HHt INC  C\4 O U'() l{il(l' !'lr.N YHPO  -4-fiJfh +.l bt1 •,1.7.1 +Li.12 +-l_ff(J  -IO.H]}S + I ..\'12~ ·I HlZ.\ +2.(1\1~ +7. 1,1()(}  IU2.W ,u~ 46,?~ 24 bl 152.HH  


AsSOClA'IH) PHESS 

JASPER 
A white suprnmacist was convicted of murder Tuesday and could get the death penalty for chaining a black man to a pickup truck and dragging him until his body was torn to pieces in a crime that shocked the nation with its savagery. 
The jury of 11 whites and one black took less than 2 1/2 hours to reach a verdict against John William King in the slaying last June of James Byrd Jr. Courtroom spectators applauded and the victim's relatives broke into tears. 
The jury then began hearing evi­dence 011 whether the 24-year-old laborer should get the death penalty or life in prison for one of the grisliest racial crimes in the United States since the civil rights era. 
"I am relieved," said Stella Brumley, Rvrd's sister. "That's all we wanted, w·as justice." 
llis son. Ross Byrd, said: "All I know is that there's one down and two to go." 
King was the first of three white men lo go on tria,1 in the slaying. which prosecutors said he carried out because he wanted "something dra­matic" to gain credibility for a racist group he was organizing. 
King leaned forward when the ver­dict was read, shielding himself from cameras, then sat back in his chair with his fingers on his chin. 
One of his lawyers said King was not surprised by the verdict and con­sidered himself the victim of a con­spiracy. 
Byrd's head and arm were found torn off after he was pulled nearly three miles while tied by his ankles with a 24 1/2-foot logging chain. 
The murder thrust Jasper into a national spotlight that many in the half-black timber town of 8,000 con­tended was unfair. Members of the Ku Klux Klan and New Black Panthers descended on thn Jasper, about 100 miles northeast of Houston, to demon­strate. 
"Three robed riders coming straight out of hell -that's exactly what there was that night," prosecutor Pat !lardy said in closing argumnnts Tucsday. 
"After they dragged that poor man and tore his body to pieces, they dropped it right in front a church and a cemetery, to show their defiance to God, to show their defiance of Christianity and everything most peo­ple in this county stand for." 
The evidence against King included a lighter engraved with a Klan symbol and King's prison name, "Possum," that was found along with cigarette butts at the scene; clothes stained with Byrd's blood; lettcrs in which King wrote about organizing a racist gang; and King's tattoos of a blark man hanging from a tree, cartoon characters in Klan garb, Nazi-typn SS lightning bolts and Aryan power proclamations. 
¦ PUERTO RICO 

Youths riot, take guards hostage 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
SAN JUAN 
Delinquent youths in a Puerto Rican prison rloted ,md took sevtm guards hostage before dawn Tuesday. officials said. 
Ten youths and sevtrn other guards were hurt in scuffles when inmates armed with homemade daggers seized their hostages, spokesman Alfredo C.!lbtera. or the Bayamon Juvenile Detention Center said. Another three Inmates wero believed to have been injured during an eo.rUer fight between rival gangs, but it was not known how badly. 

The male detainees, all aged 14 to 20 years, rel~ased three or their hostages around noon, in return for lunch. 
"The attitude is now cooperative and we're now negotiating in good faith," police negotiator Jose Caldero said. "Wt, have plenty of time and we have to do this calmly." 
Corrections Secretary Zoo Laboy sa.ld that at 
2:45 a.m. nearly 50 detainees took control of two of the four buildings a.t the center, just outside San Juan, the capital of 
this U.S. Caribbean com­monwetilth. Corrections 
· officials said the riot began when two rivaJ gangs clashed. 
lnmales buruod mat­tresses, destroyed security cameras and damaged other property b1,fort1 tlrny bega11 talking to officials, police said. 
Heavily armed riot police and six ambulances ringed the prison Tuesday as Caldoro talked to the riot• ers from a police truck 
· outside the fenced prison. He said they were com­plaining about food and medical cam, but added police believe the riot 
began with a gang fight. 
Miguel Hivura, adminis­trator of Puerto Rico's juvenile institutions. said youths still h<~ld two build­ings at thr prison. 
There are about IB.000 p(1ople in Puerto Bico's prisons, which ar~i plagued by riots and warfare b1-1iween drug gangs. 
Tho govnrnmont has been cracking down on the gangs, who control daily life within tlrn prison walls. Some riots have been touched off by gov• crnmcrnt efforts to inix mombers or dillfmmt drug gangs in the same cell­blocks. 

page 6 Wednesday, February 24, 1999 

Today 
Today on National 
Affirmative Action Day, the Observer looks at

AFFIRMATIVE 
how laws attempt to 

counter the pastACTION discrimination of women and minorities. A bi-weekly feature from The Observer News Department 
n 
cus 
Affirmative action programs benefit many facets of society 
President Clinton summed up the positive effects of affirmative action in a speech he delivered to the University of California in San Diego in 1997. 
By JESSICA DELGADO own businesses has risen News Writer by 57 percent, with 7.7 mil.lion woman-o,'ll·npd The functions of affirmative businesses that employ action are as diverse as the morn people than all the peoplP-it sflrves. Fortune 500 companies 
Statistics show that affir­put together. mative action programs have As a result of litigation done more good than for and construction tradPs, which they am given credit. affirmative action plans 
Its goals inclucte achieving have been put into place diversity in colleges, improv­within the police and fire ing the learning process for departments as well. everyone at a university and Bv 1993, women com-· providing women and minori­pos"ed 16 percent of the ties full educational and police force compared to workplace opportunities. 9.4 percent in 1983 and 
Affirmative action takes 3.7 percent of fire fighters pro-aclive and preemptive versus 1.0 percent in steps to root out discrimina­1983. tion, rather than waiting for When the Office of after-the-fact litigation. Federal Contract 
It seeks to expand the tal­Compliance concentrated ent pool for businesses to on the coal mining indus­draw from, which has led to try in 1973, there were no more diverse workforces and women. After the review enhances the performance in 1980, there was an and productivity of a compa­increase to 8. 7 percent. ny. "There are more 
President Bill Clinton African-American, Latino expressed these views about and Asian-American affirmative action in a speech lawyers and judges, scien­given on June 14, 1997 at the tists and engineers. and Universitv of California in accountants and ex·ecu­

ever In the University of Yet these same minority society we need in the 21st
San Diego." tives than before," "It has given us a whole Clinton explained in his California at Berkeley, the students had graduation century," Clinton asserted. speech. admissions for black students rates and bar-exam pass "The best example of affir­
generation of prol'essionals in 

dropped 80 percent and rates similar to those of mative action is our military.
fields that used to be exclu­Because of the removal of Hispanic student admission whites students. Our armed forces are diverse

sive clubs, where people like affirmative action in Texas and California, the states are fell SO percent to 32 percenl. "Many affirmative action from top to bottom, perhaps

me got the benefit of 100 

beginning to see downturns. Linda Wightman, at the students excel. They work the most integrated institu­percent affirmative action." 
University of North Carolina hard, they achieve, they go tion in our society and cer­
IBM has adopted a plan The University of Texas, at Greensboro, found that of out and serve the communi­tainly the most integrated
that has madA women in which is known for producing management positions triple minority lawyers, accepted the 3,485 black students ties that need them for their military in tho world," accepted by law schools in expertise and role model. If Clinton said.
in less than 10 years, reports 11 blacks and saw none 

the National Women's Law enroll. Meanwhile, the num­1991, just 687 would have you close the door on them, The National Women's Law been admitted on the sole we will weaken our greatest Center contributed to this
Center. ber of Hispanics dropped basis of board exams and universities and it will be article.

The number of women that from 50 to 14. 

grades. more difficult to build the 

In Focus 
is looking for editors for next year. Call Tim@ 1-5323 ifyou are interested. 

Affirmative Action fact and fiction 
FrCTION: Ethnic minorities and women are hi1·ed or promoted hecause employees are hound by AA practices. FACT: Only AA plans that do not compromise valid job or educational qualifications are lawful. 
FK,'TION: Quotas are used to implement AA. FACT: AA has never used quotas. It provides women and minorities with education and work­place opportunities. 
FICTION: AA programs discriminate against white males, leading to reverse discrimination. FACT: Reverse discrimination is rare, accounting for only 2 percent ofemployment scenarios. 
FICTION: AA mandates preferential treatment and unfoir advantages for minorities and women. FACT: AA does not require preferences. Women and minorities do not assume that they will be given preferential treatment. 
FICTION: The pay disparity between the genders does not suggest discriminatory practices. FACT: In 1993, the amount of w~es women lost due to pay inequality was nearly $100 billion. 
FICTION: The U.S. Government should not promok AA through federal funds. FACT: These funds come from taxes pnid hy women and minorities who are entitled to a fair portion of federal contracts. 

Wednesday, February 24, 1999 The Observer• IN FOCUS page 7 
WOMEN IN AMERICA EARN ONLY 74 PERCENT OF WHAT MEN DO. 

I 
Courtesy of www.guemllaglrls.com 

Schools question 
need for affirmative action 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE an opinion that contradicted till' News Writer Bakke dncision. Bncause div1:rsity can not be a 
Responding to a shifting state intnrnst, thn court said, national attitudfl toward thfl the school's admissions procr.ss role of race and ethnicity in col­was constitutionally nawnd. lege admissions, lhe University The judicial dcicisions sonl of Massachusetts at Amherst sparks through college admis­announced Priday that it will sions offices nationwide, and in turn its back on affirmative 1996, California's legislature action. hr.came the first lo strikfl down 
Progress remains slow even under aid of affirmative action 
By COI.LEEN McCARTHY Sniru Mary's News F.dm1r 
Mmn than 30 years after aflirmatiVP actif)[J poliCiHS began to be implemented. minorities and women still fac11 barrinrs in Lheir quest lo achinv(I oqualily with white men in the work­place and in education. 
Aftrr the implornentation of tlw Civil Bights Act of 1%4, which prohibited sex discrimination in employ­rnen t. recruitment, out­reach and training. affir­mative action initiatives havt, assisted all wom1m and minorities in finding Pqual opportunities. 
Whiln there is progress, it is r.oming slowly. 
''It does strike me that. amongst students, they pcrcciw, they can do any­thing," said Susan Alexander. assistant pro­fnssor nf socinlngy, social work and anthropology at Saint Mary's. "Society has changlld and thorn are morn opportunities for women to succeed than !hero m;nd to br.1." 
I low(~ver, these students may Im too optimistic. 
"I don't know how many of tlwse students roalize that it doesn't always work likP that.'' said Alexander. rnl'nrring to oppnrtunitics available to women and minorities in socir.ty. "Son11.• barrinrs still exist. We'll sen what happens if lilizabeth Dole decides tci run for president.'' 
Discrepancies in pay 
Many campus activities throughout Black History Month celebrated diversity. Bertha King, 
a diversity support 
specialist 
at Memorial Hospital, 
spoke to 
Saint Mary's 
students last week about 
the struggles and satisfactions of exploring your minority identity. 
Tha Observer/Manuela Hernandez 
between white men and women attest to the need for affirmative action. According to statistics from the Leadership Council on Civil Rights tLCCR), 67 percent of the 62 million working women in the U.S. earn less than $20,000 annually, and 38 percent earn less than $10,000. In 1991, women physicinns earned 53.9 pcrcont of tho male physi­cian's wage, the LCCR reported. 
rn addition, for overy dollar earned by men, women on the whole earn 74 cents, African­American women earn 63 cents and Latina. women earn 57 cents, according to statistics from the National Organization for Women. 
The pay gap is disturbing to Alexander. 
"We need to link this to education." said Alexander. "The more education you receive, the more likely you are to be higher paid. Even when women do choose to pur­sue an education, they are not receiving the same pay as men." 
This is seen frequently in academia, said Alexander, whoro both men and · women have Ph.D.s but women hold the lower rnnking positions within departments and are paid less. 
"Thue is something going on when that doesn't lead to equal pay," said Alexander. "This is a situ­


ation where women don't 
have the opportunity to 
move up the ladder." 
A woman's cal'eer choice could lead to the pay dis• crepaocy, said Alexander. 
For example, women make up most of the edu­cation field, while only 8.4 percent of all engineers are women, according to the Census Bureau. On average. engineers receive higher pay than teachers, and this can sometimes account for the discrepan· cy, said Alexander. 
rn other high-paying fields, women make up only 25 percent of all doc­tors and lawyers, accord• ing to the Census Bumau. 
The fight to level the playing fiold through affir• mative action continues today and the need for the continuation, particularly for minority women, is evi­dent in statistics from the LCCR, according to Alexander. 
Minority women. in par· ticulnr, continue Lo be undorreprosented in numerous areas of the business world. Only 2.6 percent of executive, man­agerial and administrative jobs were held by African­American women and 5 percent by Latinas versus 
37.6 percent held by white women. In hospital indus· try jobs, African-American and Latina women held 
4.6 percent of posiLions, while whito women held 
50.2 percent, according to statistics from the LCCR. 
In changing the role diversity plays in financial aid and admissions decisions. the insti­tution has joined a growing number ol' collflges that havr. undergone similar altitude 
adjustments. 
Thf) change in focus concerns Dan Saracino, assist.ant provost. of admissions at Notrn Dame. 
"The benefits of affirmative action arc spoken for," Saracino said. "But because colleges have not been able to articulate persuasively reasons why affir­mative action is good for their campuses, the federal govern­ment will step in." 
First coined by President Lyndon Johnson in 1965, the phrase affirmative action was a 
part of an execu­tive order requir­ing federal con­tractors to "take affirmative action 
to  ensure  that  
applicants  are  
employed,  and  

that employees are treated dur­ing employment. without regard to their race. creed. color. or national origin." 
Tho Supreme Court cautiously supported affir• mative action in relation to col­lege admissions in the 1978 case, Bakke v. Regents of the University of California. 
cannot give that

THE BAKKE DECISION 
prr.ferr.ntial

SET THE STANDARD 
trnatnrnnt to ath­letes or alumni. ft

NATIONWIDE FOR 
would be strictly

CONSIDERATION OF 
by the numb<•rs." 

DIVERSITY AS A Yet while schools such as
POSITIVE FACTOR IN 
University of TERMS OF Massachusetts-Amherst and
ADMISSION, JUST 
University of AS ATHLETIC TALENT, California­Berkciliy have
GEOGRAPHY OR 
publicly 

ALUMNI STATUS PLAY 
dnnouncnd sup­A ROLE IN THE port of arfirma­tiv<! action. 
ADMISSION PROCESS, 
Saracino sees 

The court held that a special admissions program that reserved class spac1is for appli­cants from "economically or educationally disadvantaged backgrounds" was a policy that promoted reverse discrimina­tion against whites. 
Hut while the court ruled that this type of special admissions was illegal because of the quo­tas set by admission officers, they did recognize the role that diversily plays in education, saying that the university had the right to select students who would contribute lo a "robust exchange of ideas." 
Tho Bakke decision set the standard nationwide for consid· eration of diversity as a positive far.Lor in terms or admission, _just as athletic talont, g(wgra­phy or alumni status play a role in the admission process. 
However, in 191)(1, a district court lawsuit involving the University of Tnxas took a step towards ovnrturning the Bakkn decision and changing thn fncn 
of 11 duca ti o n a I a ffi r rn a ti v (! action forever. 
In Hopwood v. University or Tr.xas, Clwryl Hopwood sur.d the university's School of' Law for admitting loss-qualified minorities and denying lrnr admission. Whiln Hopwood only recr!ived $1 of' damag1is. at'ier an appeal, the court relflased 
its state's afl'irmativn action programs. 
Proposition 209, passPCI hy 54 1wrcent of California's votnrs, states that the consideration of race, ethnicity and g1)ndnr in statc-su11portod education, employrn(rnt and contracting are not to be included in appli­cation decisions. 
Following California's dnr.i­sion. Tnxas, Colorado. Florida and Washington 1Lrn consid<!r­ing similar plans. 
"Hight now. we give prnl'nrnn­tial treatment to athletes and alumni," said Saracino. "People who aro against affirmativr action will say that it's not fair to give minoritins preferential treatment. that we nend to put them on the same playing field. But if wc do that. we 
Notrn Danw 's 
ar.cnplance of Lim 

policy as an advantagn for the 
University's admissions proc11ss. 
"/\ school like Notrn Dame is unlikn sev1Jral otlwr national univcrsilins in that it does not havr. the diversity that other schools have," he said. "But if' w,1 maintain an aggrnssivo affirmative action policy, it helps at a timo when otlrnr schools am backing away. We are going to rnmain proactivn." 
Universi tins that haVP denounced affirmativo action arc taking steps to maintain diversity within their classes, however. 
Tho "Ten P<ircent Plan," spnarhcaded by Texas. allows automatic admission for stu­dents to public collegrs if they graduat,i within the top 10 pnr­cent of their high school class. /\t tlw University of California, discussions recomnwncling tlH: elimination of SAT and ACT sr.orns in the admissions proc1iss am und,wway. 
Yet the k11y lo maintaining rlivnrsity, Saracino says, is not to clirninatn a1Tirmativ1\ action, but to rngulatn it.. 
"To admit a student simply because thny am la minority! is not only unethical. but ii. is 1111­Chr is ti an . T Im Iaws that California has pasS<)d am nwan­spirited," h11 said. "I.11t's not throw the baby out with tlw bathwatr,r. td'firmativ<i attion dofls have b1rnel'its." 
--............ -.-.---------.--...---~-~--.--.......,-----:-:-----­
page 8 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 24, 1999 
Plans 
continued from page 1 
Mary's minorities graduate. which is equal to the 76 percent of the majority student popula­tion that graduates. 
The retention rate for all undergraduates at Notre Dame is 88.8 percent. Whfln broken up by ethnicity, graduation rates, in 1994, were 72.4 percent for non-resident aliens, 60.3 per­cent for African-Americans, 
66.7 percent for Native Americans, 89. 7 percent for Asians, 77.9 percent for Hispanics and 91.4 percent for whites. 
Retention rates by ethnicity in 1996 were 97.5 percent for all undergraduates, 93.5 percent for non-resident aliens, 93.8 percent for African-Americans, l 00 percent for Native Americans, 94. 7 percent for Asians, 97.4 percent for Hispanics and 97.8 percent for whites. 
"Given lhal lhe graduation rates are comparable, I'd be surprised if [the minority stu­dents] weren't retaining at the same rates." said Mary Lelick, Saint Mary's director of Institutional Research. "If we look historically. with only a handful of minority students, 

Business Majors: 
Internships available to work with 

a micro-lending organization assisting people with no credit history to obtain loans and build their businesses. 
This is a 10-12 week program during the 
summer, offering: 
* 
up to $2,500.00 tuition scholarship (with housing provided) 

* 
3 academic credits -(elective) 


Available in 6 cities: Albuquerque, Chicago, El Paso, New York City, San Antonio, and San Diego 
• • Applications available at the Center for Social Concerns -due February 26!1! 
Interviews: March 2nd at the CSC with a representative from ACCION 
tUI
CENTER fOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

We assist in self-exploration." also to further goals and objec­dents. 
Some current students see tives of different programs on "It's disparaging to see some room for improvement. campus. It's benefiting those of the numbers, especially for 
"I feel the University needs to who actually feel comfortable to African-American students here market the programs and inter­take advantage of the programs, on campus," Harrison said. "The vene in different circumstances but personally I'm still waiting numbers are drastically differ­to bring clown some barriers to for a positive impact on the ent from the majority students, success," said Dameyon quality of lives of' many African­and I feel thn University as a Harrison, a Notre Dame senior. Americans on campus." whole needs to address some of "By trying to calm fears so they He would also like to see a rise the issues African-American stu­won't feel a loss of pride and in the numbers of minority stu-dents have here." 
Nanovic Institute for European Studies 
A reminder of the Nanovic Institute's 1999-2000 grant program for faculty, graduate and undergraduate students. 
Faculty Grants: Three grants of up to $4,000 each will be awarded for projects that deal with European issues. Preference will be given to those proposals that require travel to Europe. These grants can be used for summer research or for research during the 1999-2000 school year. 
Graduate Student Grants: Three grants of up to $3,000 each 
will be awarded for projects that deal with European issues. 
Preference will be given to those proposals that require travel 
to Europe. These grants can be used for summer research or 
for research during the 1999-2000 school year. 
Undergraduate Student Grants: Three grants of up to $3,000 each will be awarded for projects that deal with European issues. Preference will be given to those proposals that require travel to Europe. It is expected that these grants will be used for summer research. 
Application deadline: March 26tJ1, 1999 
For more information contact the Nanovic Institute at 631-5253 or visit our office at 419 Flanner Hall. 
CLASS OF 2000 
JUNIOR WEEK 
CLASS DINNER: Wednesday, February 24th 
5:30 pm LaFortune Ballroom Fazzoli's, $2 
CLASS MASS: Thursday, February 25th 
6:30 pm, Keenan-Stanford Chapel Fr. Jim Lies presiding. 
there hasn't been a need to track [minorities] on an individ­ual basis." 
SUPPOKT SYSTEMS 
The Office of Multicultural Student Affairs at Notre Dame's support services hope to retain multicultural students. 
Specifically, the office spon­sors the OMSA Scholars Program, which offers scholar­ships to multicultural students, for which first year students can apply. It also offers workshops that encourage using the L!~arning Resource Center, pro­vides information on business etiquette and provides informa­tion on opportunities for intern­ships and summer research opportunities for under-repre­sented students. 
The office tries to help both studimts from dominantly white backgrounds and students from minority backgrounds. 
"A lot of Notre Dame students come [from] homogeneous pop­ulations, and their first experi­ence with minorities is here," said Iris Outlaw, the director of Multicultural Student Affairs at Notre Dame, "We're trying to provide an environment that is comfortable for students who are not part of the majority pop­ulation. We encourage students not to assimilate, but stay true to who they are, and not sell out. 

-
Wrdnesday, February 24, 1999 The Observer• NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
• • • .j 
Please recycle The Observer:.::: 
csc 
C E N T E R F O R 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

Come to hear the stories of 
Chicago Gang Members 
with Brother Bill Toomes 
-an open discussion-
Sunday, February 28, 1999 4 p.m. Center for Social Concerns 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Federal Heserve Chairman Alan Grrenspan said Tuesday a "surprisingly robust" U.S. econ­omy should continue growing 
this mar but at a much slower pace than last. And he dropped hints that if the slow­down doesn·t 

occur, the Greenspan central bank is prepared to increase intMest rates to make it happen. 
Delivering his twicn-a-year report on Fed policy to Congress, Greenspan did not signal that a rate inr,reasc is imminent. Indeed, he also left open the possibility that if the global economic crisis should suddenly re-ignite, the Fed would respond with l'urther rate cuts, as it did last fall. 
"We remain vulnerable to rapidly changing conditions overseas, which, as we all saw last summer, can be transmit­ted to U.S. markets quickly and dramatically," Greenspan said. 
But referring to the three interest rate cuts the Fed made over a span of seven weeks last year, Greenspan said the cen­tral bank must address "whether the full extent of the 

Greenspan: Growth is 'torrid,' but rate cuts may be needed 
policy casings undertaken last fall ... remains appropriato." 
That remark was sf:cn as a signal that the Fed is having second thoughts about thn third rafo cut, which moved llrn fodnral limcls ra.to -tho inter­est that banks charge each other -down to 4.75 pei·cnnt. 
Gronnspan callod tlw econo­my's growth rate in the l'ourlh quarter "torrid_" lln also repeat(id worries hn exprnssed last month about whether the stock marknt's return to record levels is justified in light of thn weakness in corporate earn­ings. 
"The Fed probably regrots in hindsight that the third rate cut was made." said Sung Won Sohn, chic!' economist at Wnlls Fargo in Minneapolis. "Chairman Creenspan is tnlling us that the Fed hopes thn econ­omy slows on its own, but he is not going to wait forever for that to occur." 
Wall Street investors also had a pessimistic reading of Greenspan's words. Bernd prices dropped sharply on fears of' future Fncl rate incrcasns, with falling demand pushing the yield on Trnasury's benchmark :rn-year bond up to 
5.43 percent, compared to 5.35 percent on Monday. Stock prices edged lower as well. The Dow Jones industrial average finished the day down 8.26 at 9,544.42. 


Spend your Summer with us! 

It's time for clarity. 
For details on Internship opportunities 
at K.PMG and our summer closing event in Orlando, visit the c;'Your Career" section on our website. EOE m/f/d/v. 
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 ------------------------­

THE OBSERVER NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 6.11-~.\-l :,,\INT MAHY's OFFICE: 309 llaggar, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-'i_\(,'i 1998-99 GENERAL BOARD EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANACING EormR llUSf"IESS MANAGER Brian Reimhaler Kyle Carlin A.>SISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Heather MacKenz1e Nrws FmT0R .. .......Michelle Krupo AOVERTISINC MANAGER ................. fln•an Lut1 VIEWPOINT EDITOR ................ Eduardu Llull Ao DESIGN MANAGER... . ......... Bre;, Huel.n Srrnns ErnTnR... . .............. Katl,lc:en-I.()pcz SYSTEMS MANAGER.. . .. Michael Brouillet SCENE EDITORS.......................Sarah Dylag CoNTROI.LER. . . ..... .. ..... . ........ Dave Rogero Kris(i Kficsch WEB AnMINISTRAT0R .................Alli,011 Krilh SAINT MARv's EolTOR ....... M. Shannon Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR ...............................Pere Cilella P1-10To EDITOR .. ..Kevin Dalum Th..: Ob~cr-ver b the i11d..:pc:11dcnr n.:wsp.lpcr puhli~hnl br tilt'. S:tulktm <Jf rhc L:1tivcr,ity of Notre: I )unll" (hJ Lit ,md S;1im MJf)'!> Colk-gc. It dod not nttcs,;;.,rily n.'11cc1 the policies nftht' ,idministration of either instinniun. ·1·11(! nL·ws is reported J5 accur.1,dr ,11,J oh1ooi,·d\' a.,; pusi-iblc. Unsigned Cllitol'i.1ls rcrrl!.scn1 thc-opirlitlll d'1hc majonry of the Fditor-in-Chid: MJnaging F..dimr, A~~istam Managing Editor .111d department eitfoors. C:nnuncntariL-s, letter,; ,ma columns flfC"~nt the ,,iL'\VS of rhc-,1urhors. ,tnd not nen:s.,;arily rhosc nfThc Observer. Viewpoint sp.tcc: is avaibhk· m .ill members of ihe Notre Damc/S~int Mary's community ,mJ to all rc.i.dcrs. The free ex.prcs.\ion nf varying opi11ions th10ugh lem:rs i, cllC(1urngcd Contacting The Observer Ediror-in-Cl1icf 631-45<12 Bti\ines:. Office 6.l 1-531.\ Managing Editor/A,,i,ram ME 631-4541 Advertising (,_l J-6900/8840 Ncws/Phoro (i_) 1-5?i23 Sv~rcms 6} 1-88.1') Sports 6.i 1-4543 F:,x 6.!1-6927 Sn.-uc/S:iint MJ.rv's 6.11-45-10 Vinvpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. H1iml.ctlu Dav Editor/YiC\~poinr 631-530., Ad E-Mail ohserver(iocJ;1rwin.cc.nd.edu Office r,..{;mai;er/Gener~l lnfnrmarinn 6.11-74'71 Nnvs E-Mail ohserver.ollsnc\VS, I@111d.cti11  
 

¦ LIKE ARROWS IN THE HANO Of AWARRIOR 

Not Me, Not Me, but to You Alone 
You had a fight with your best friend. Your friend is someone you have known all of your life, 
who has given you support, given you 
Gabriel Martfnez 
advice. You have counted on your friend. and you have never been disappointed. 
But know you have fought. You said things you wish you wouldn't have said; you did things you regret having done. Then you realize how much you value the friendship, even though you may not be able to express it. But you want to be friends again. Then you do what is neces­sary. You swallow your pride, you say all the right words and you make clear that you are ready to do what it takes to heal the wounds. 
If' you value the friendship, maybe you are even ready to change to be a better friend. If you realize what it really means to lose this rriendship, and what it means to gain it, you are more than willing to make quite a few sacrifices. 
Sacrifice, in Lent. is something we give up to God, not to our egos. Sacrifice is not a social occasion. When we pray, fast and give alms this Lent, we should not do it so that other people may be impressed, like the girl we like or the Trustee we dislike. When we fast, pray and give alms, we should do it to atone for our sins and to bring down mercies from Heaven. 
We should do it in tho private of our hearts and our stomachs, letting not one hand know what the other is doing. It may be.as common as "How was your summer?" but to the question "What arc you giving up for Lent?" we should answer with a pulitP 'Tel rather not tell." That will make people suspicious, but who cares. Our Father snns in the secret. cooperate in the rnstitution ol' Lim win­

In sacrificing to God we unite ourselves dow, it is fair for us to coop1m1ln in the \Vith Chr1st. We carry our crosses right rPstitulion of our souls. next tu llis, on thn way to Calvary . .Our Our sacrifirns cannot bn ina,w. Wn ran­
crosses may be small, but ii' they are, thew should be like lice, which are tiny but painl'ul. Evrry  'THEWEIGHT OF O~R SINS IS TOO GREAT FOR US: THAT IS WHY  not giw up llH• icka ol' giving up: it's lik<~ giv­ing tlw sun up for !.(Hit in Michiana:  
time we see that  CHRIST'S CROSS IS NECESSARY TO SAVE  what's tlw  
coveted partial good that we are  US. BUT WE PLAY A PART ON OUR OWN  point. of" il"! If' our sacrilicn is  
giving up for that  SALVATION BY ACCEPTING THAT THE  not painl'ul. ii' it  
Good that we seek. wr, should  CROSS OF CHRIST IS THE WAY, AND THEN  dons not l"t'lllind us or  
remember that  TAKING UP THE CROSS OURSELVES.'  what Christ  

Christ led the way. 

God is not treating us like spoiled brats, letting us havn infinity without any coop­eration on our part. Chtist's sacrifice is inimitable, and it is a free gilt, but wn must be willing to accept it: that we do, in part, through sacrifices. What good does it do to us ifwo honor God with our lips but our hearts arc turned away from llim'? That is, ifwe say we love God, but we give no importance to showing our love and making it grow through our actions'? Then our faith is as useless as a screen door in a submarine (thanks, St. James and Rich Mullins). So sacrifice we will, knowing we follow the example of the Son of God. 
An analogy that comes to mind (because Ijust heard it from someone else) is that of a child who breaks a very expensive window. The father agrees to pay for it because the child could not afford it, but that docs not mean that the child should have no part in making up for his or her mistake. In the samr, way, there is no way that we can restore our relationship with God by ourselves. Tho weight of our sins is too great for us: that is why Christ's Cross is necessary to save us. But we play a part on our own salva­tion by accepting that the Cross of Christ is the way. and thr,n taking up tlrn cross ourselves. Just as it is fair for the child to 
suffc!n!d on tlw 

Cross, th(!n really, what is it about'? Our sacrilkn may have some useful human purpose, likn giving up alcohol !'or a bing'(\-drink(!I", or giving up some nasty habit (i.e.. a vicn), like smoking (sorry, Davn). But if thP lovn 
'IFYOU ARE A NON­
CATHOUC, AT LEAST YOU 
GET THE BENERT OF SAVING 
YOUR ARTERIES. IF YOU ARE 
A CATHOLIC AND YOU PICK 
UP PASTA WITH THE RIGHT 
MIND AND WITH THE RIGHT 
HEART, YOU ARE ALSO WORK­
ING TOWARD THE SALVATION 
OF YOUR SOUL.' 
of God is not the end of our sacrifkns then what we do is just for sclf-disciplinn, political activism, or social popularity. That is not a waste of time, but our timn and our nfforts can be used for somdhing hotter. 
Ms. Colleen Ga ugh en had an I nsid(! Column on Ash Wednesday. in which slrn pointl'd out (quit<' rightly) I.ha! we• should 
n·nwlllhPr Christ. al all l.i1n<'s. and 1wl 
only bntwc~<'n Jic•bruary and Mardi. 111 
spil.P of' appnanUH'(', slu• is nol saying w,• 
should ignon• our l'ric·1Hls wlw11 tlu:y arc• 
sick, just lwcausP WI' don't. IH'f'd'a dPsig­
11atncl s,•ason to l"l'lll('llllwr l.lwm. or 
COlJrS(' wn should rc:joicf' at tlw birth of' 
Christ. nwurn I lis dr:alh, and gloril'.y I lis 
rt:s111-r(:(·ti1111 nwry day (tlw llosary is a 
gootl way). YPt W<' sf'l aparl 40 days out 
of' th,• y,•ar to dn•ss our hr:arl.s with saf'k­
dolh and ,·ovi:r ot11· tongw• with ash,•s. so 
that. 1wnry y<'ar. th,: sh11f'.k of' 11u1· guilt 
will mak,• us ,-ry. with I.Ill' l'salmisl, 
"Forgivn nw. () 1.ord. f'or I haw do1w 
what. is Pvil in your sight." 
I plain don '1 undr:rsland 1.lw llf'Xl.-to­

last paragraph of' that lnsidf' Column. 
First Ms. Gaughr:n arg111•s that not naling 
nrnat 1111 Fridays is not. that-much ol' a 
sacrifict!: al't1~r all. mr:at is a lo! mon• 
plt:ntil'ul now than in till' past. I don ·1 
quill' Sl'I' how lhis J'oJlows, but OK. Tl11•11 
slw impliPs that mnallnss Fridays i11 llw 
dining halls impost' an t1111w1:nssary hur­
dPn on non-Catholics: hut I thought no 
nwat was not mtw.h ol' a saffilicP. Tlw 
truth is that nrnatlnss Fridays arc• a sa(:ri­
fic1!, t!SpPdally for pPoplP likP nw. who 
want IJpd', ,·.hicknn. or pork in nvPry · mnal. But this isn't vnry lwalthy. w(~ 
mnat-nalt!rs 1rnt!d a nirn VPgntarian nrnal 
nvnry oncn in a whiln. II' you an: a non­
Catholic, at l1iast you gel tlw lwrwlil ol' 
saving your artnri,is. II' you arn a Catholic 
and you pick up pasta with llw right mind 
and with tlw right !wart. you am also 
working toward tlrn salvation ol' your 
soul. 
Christ was not al'raid to makn Llw 

suprnm(i sacrilicn. Christ was not rnlw:­
tant to givn liis lifo for you. t\n• you? 
Gabriel Xaoier Marlinez is not, um­

trary lo popular beli<f. aJi-r,g. but a grad­
uate student in Hconomics. I !is r:olwnn 
runs e11ery ot.her Wednesday. 
1Jte views expressed in lhis f'ol11m11 are 
those<!/' the author and not 11en's.wtrify 
those (!f' The Ohserver. 
¦ Dom,JEssurrv 
~Y&INC/3"/I/ffIIC1/Vl5S AWN'r&JIN6AIUAY. l»fY/1~taaA/90~ANCJ{(.AIR/LAU· P£NA/.,J., JUSTfilJT!il.WFCR.05­/NG ~IAEJa<ING4IPAN. 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

YO()'/?b KJWING­&VEN l?AiPH 
/.AURL;N,? I THATS 
PJH47/'T 
SAYS, 
\ 
¦ Quon OF THE DAY 
,Allmodern American 
literature comes from 
one book by Mark Twain 
called Huckleberry Finn.' 
-Ernest Hemingway 

VIEWPOINT 
WcJncsday, Pcbru.iry24, 1999-------------------­

¦ THE PSA 
Sweatshops: Social 
Justice or $ocial Ju$tice for ND? 
John Paul II writlls in l.ahorPm Exerc1rns: "the Churrh rnnsiders it lrnr Lask always lo call ntlPntion to 1.lw dignity and riglHs of those who work. to condf1mn situations in which that dig-
Progressive Student Alliance 
nily. and thosn rights arn violatnd, and lo help lo guicl,i ... l'hangns so as to 1•nsuni auth1•11tic progrnss by man and society." 
Tlw workplace\, its ronditions, tlw provision 111' a livi11g w11gn. and tlrn employnwnt of chil­
drPn havf' bn1•n f'ond 
l'OllCfH'n S 
of' llw (:atlwlic s11cial tra­dition Silll'P 111'1'11111 N1111ar11111. !low is it tllf'n that this hall' of what it
,WITH THE _cLc AND oTHER coLrnGES AooPnNG sTR1crnR 
would CODES, OUR CATHOLIC UNIVERSITY IS DESTINED TO BECOME take to provide
A LARGE ESCAPE VALVE FOR THE MORALLY MOST REPUGNANT MANU­
hnrself FACTURERS. NOTRE DAME SHOULD BE IN THE VANGUARD ON THIS and her child
ISSUE. MANY SECULAR INSTITUTIONS HAVE DECIDED TO PUT JUSTICE 
with BEFORE PROFITS. IT'S HIGH TIME THAT WE DO ALSO.' ade­
Univ1•rsity with its vocal pretension to maintain a Catholic C'.haractPr could havn anything but tlw highest rngard and doepnst concnrn for jus­ticn in thn workplacP'? 
Tlw Univnrsily has a Code o/' Conduct which Pstahlislws 11nrnssary condilions !'or work envi­ronmPnls in whirh Nolrn Dame licensed appar­111 can Im produccid. This cocln is oul­datPd how,wcr. Many univr.rsi­tiPs, incl11di11g llw ,mtirn llnivnrsity ol' California sysl.Pm for mwmplP. havn sl.riclnr cocks and lhn Collngiate I.icPnsing Corporation1c:u:1, tlw nation's largcJst licPnsing linn. is in thn prorciss of adopting a rndn v.ihi<"h is murh slrictnr than Nolrt• l)a1111•'s. 
Slril'lnr codPs inrlud1• a dausP niquiring that workors Im allownd f'n•clv to associatn: to i'orrn or join unions of tlrnir choosing. Notrn Damn's dons not. Stricl1\r codes dnmn1HI that worknrs bn givPn 01w dny oil dt1ring nach snvcn day rwriocl work1id, and that work beyond 48 hours a wwik lw paid as overtinrn. Notro Dame's docs not. StrictPr codes spcr.ily that bonded or indt'llttm'd labor may nol bn used, and lhat s1ix11al lmrassmcnt not bci tolnratcd in tho workplarn. Our's dons not. 
Strider codes am mom enforceable, requir­ing thnt vcnrlors of liccnsnd apparnl provide tlln lornlion and contact information for all facilitins in which licm1sml apparnl is produced. This inl'ormation is macln availabln lo outsido so"ial nrganizations who nrnnitor produclion f'1wililins in third world counlriP.s. Without such disclosurn and tl1<1 scrutiny of such watch-dog groups. no codn of conduct is truly nnl'orcnable, hut Nolrn Dame has no such provision. 
Many other universities arn considnring adding "living wagu" provisions LO tlrnir codos. This is another area in which Notrn Dame lags 
behind. The very notion of a living wage as a justice issue gons back to Lr.o XIII and 11crum 
Novarum, yet this Catholic institution has abdi­
cated the l11adcrship on this issue to ser.ular 
institutions. All it would take is to charge a 
committee with researching a schedule of liv­ing wages f'or Urn countries in which Notre Dame lir.ensed products aro made and to estab­
lish appropriatP minimum wages in facilities producing Notre Dame apparel. . 
II ere is a portrait or working conditions made possible by our lax code. I.in is a Chinese national working in a factory in a Pacilic Him country. She has posted a bond (her ontiro life savings) as a condition of her employment, wltich means if she is fired she forfeits the bond and is rPpatrialnd to China. She works a (10-hour week. including Saturdays and Sundays earning .40 an hour, the prevailing wage for apparel workers in the region but less 
than 
quatn 
food, housing and medical ~am. She can do little to improve hPr lot: slrn isn't allowed to join a labor union. If she tries she will be fired and will l'orfeil her bond. In fact if she disobeys any o/' her boss's orders she could be summarily fired, forfeit her bond and be repatriated. Millions or persons work under such condi­
tions. I don't know that such a worker makes Notre Dmrn~ licensed apparel, but with our code it is possible, and if she does nei­ther I. nor Notre , Dame, nor any independent watch dog group would have any way 
to discover it, because Notrn Dame does not require clis­closurn. 
We am the nations largest colle­
giate apparel licensor. This is ne arnna in 
hich doing the 
t thing also hasAW a m,~jor impact on the //• industry al largo. With the CLC and othor colleges 
adopting stricter codes, our 
Catholic tr.nivnrsity is destined to become a large escape valvn for the morally most repugnant manufacturers. Notre Dame should be in tho vanguard on this issue. Many secular institutions have decided to put Justice before prolits. IL's high time that we do also. 
For morf' inf'orrnalion, including specific pro­posals, links to other r.ollegcs and organiza­tions involved with the issue, and information on upcoming rallies and other events on cam­pus, check out the PSA web site: www.nd.edu/-psa. 
Tim /Jyrne is a graduate ,<;tudent in the Dept. ofPhilosophy and a member ofthe Progressi11e Student Alliance. The PSA '.s column usually runs ei1ery Tuesda!J. 
The uiews expressed in this column are those o_f the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
¦ LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Dishonorable 
Coverage 

I am writing to tell you how disappointed and disgnmtlnd l am with the recent covnragn of the Big East Championships on the sides of the women's and men's track and linld teams. The recent accomplishments of individual athletes. team tro­phies and record pnrformances went completely unrncogniznd and dishonored in the Tuesday publication of The Obsnrvnr. 
The track and field team is the sncond largest tnam on tlw Notre Dame campus, only second to whom I don't know but the fact is that this is a sport that the most pnopln on this campus participate in. Not only varsity athlellis but most evory person on this campus has participated in some l'orm or this sport beforn. Therefore, track and field dons have impor­tance at Notre Dame and is not bning recognized in this respect. Although this is a disgrace, the morn disgracnf'ul is that the Big East Championships were this past wnnkend and the coverage ol' this mnet in Thn ObservP.r has bnen deplorable. 
The women went into this mePt decrnied only able to score around 60 points or which would havn boon a good numlrnr compared to other years as it was. On the lirsl day o/' llw mewl the women led the wholn meet. This would snem like exciting news to me. Although they didn't end up winning they got darn close by placing third by only 19 points. This was amaz­ing yet unrecognized with even a sentnnce. I have not chnckml the records but I believe this may have been history in the making. Besides this team accomplishment thn women's team also had many individuals who wnrn dishonorably recogni,wd in the paper. I will not go into clelail with every pnrl'ornrn11ce but thern was onn Big East champion, at least thren socond­place linishcs and multipin third placns. ·Being in possibly tlw best conference for track and field in tho nation. this is a major accomplishrmmt. 
I am not on the men's team but would vonture to say that the coverage was a little bit bc:tifir on their sidn. The men did have a sound meet but they did not finish in second by a mern 19 points they finished in sucond by more than 50. Thn women obviously being much closnr to the championship tith Their individuals werP-m11ntionP-cf with more dignity but not close to the work that was put down by all of tlrnm. 
I hope that The Obsnrvnr will rncognizci thoir fault in writing this articlo and decide to taku more consiclcratio11 in their next venlure at publicizing a Big East Championship mnnt or a national meet. Track and liold doP.s not garnnr compntil.ion twice a week like other teams. therefore il would snem that one or two meets a season would bn able to be coverncl with more rnspecl. 
JoAnna Deeter 
Junior, McGlinn Hall l'ebruary 23, I 999 


O
THE 
page l 2 Wednesday, February 24, 1999
BSERVER 

Matthews, Reynolds go acoustic at small Indiana venue
These days', if you want to see a big name rock act, you had better plan on "One Sweet World" made the room feel like one big happy family, and "Say enjoying it with 20,000 other crazy kids. Y~u should also be prepared to Goodbye" was a huge success as well. hear only 35 percent of what thff lead smger says, -encounter many Two unreleased songs struck me with great intensity. The original tune called drunken people and wait for two hours to get out of the stadium parking "Reconcile Our Differences" was very dark and emotional with lyrics like "If I 
lot. It's also sometimes frustrating when you leave the die before my time, don't forget me. don't regret me." show -maybe you expected a liltle more. This past ·The crowd was silenced by this piece. The rendition of Sunday, however, I encountered none of these problems the Rolling Stones' classic "Wild Horses" was also at the Dave Matthews/Tim Reynolds Acoustic Show at impressive. These two men made this bittersweet song
SETLIST
Depauw University. stick in the heads of every soul listening. 
Depauw University is located in a small The other treat of the show was the dif-Indiana town called Greencastle. Although ference between Matthews and Reynolds. we spent some time searching the town for As Matthews sat strumming his sweet
Best Of What's Around
a huge castl!~ we only found a:--couple of acoustic chords, Reynolds stood up just pawn'6hops and a two-screen movie the­All Along The Watchtower rocking out with his many pedals and atre. When I finally came to grips that we effects. Matthews was very charismatic,
Crush
weren't going to see a castle with kings and while Reynolds did not even talk to the princes, we decided to find the auditorium. The Stone/(Can't Help Falling In Love) crowd. Matthews appeared to be about six­Outside of the venue, people gathered to . Christmas Song feet talr while Rnynolds was barely five­catch a glimpse of Mr. Matthews. In fact, he feet. Maybe this was why they work-so well
Reconcile Our Differences/Don't Drink The
did show his face. but only for a few min­together. utes. A couple of shady women were talk­Water (This Land Is Your Land) There were some bad things about the ing to a shady crewmember and proceeded show --,-one attributed to the musicians.
One Sweet World 
to get into one of the tour buses with him. and th·e other to some other people. The We later saw them being escorted to one of Two Step duo's rendition of "Stay" was horrible. the entrances that lead to the backstage Lie In Our Graves They changed the beginning riff. which was area -it was all very shady. somewhat cool, but Dave's words did not fit
Tim Solo (Unknown)
Anyway, enough of the shadiness -let's at all with the music. It looked like two talk about the actual show. Walking into What Would You Say amateurs on stage who didn't know what the auditorium, I thought I had gone back they were doing. The song did, however,
Say Goodbye
to high school. The place was tiny -only have a cool ending. about 1,400 scats. Matthews and Reynolds Stay . The other bad part of the show was tlrn came out onto thfl stage at about 7:39 p.m. Jimi Thing/(Shook Me all Night Long) group or annoying girls sitting in front of 
Matthews explained to the crowd that he me. They sat the entire show screaming
What Will Become Of Me/Pantala Naga
does.n't need to "take anything" to make "Warehouse!" They finally shut up after him crazy. lie said that he just a weird guy Pampa Dave made run of their high shrieking voic­by nature. Then the two broke into an Crash Into Me/(Dixie Chicken) es. They sulked throughout the rnst of the inspiring version of' "Best of What's performance.
Halloween
Around." I had a good time. No, I had a hell of a Next came the classic Bob Dylan tune "All Spoon time. The venue was small, I could hear Along the Watchtower." During the first what was going on, and the only distur­
Loose interpretation (Big Blast of Hot Air)­
two songs the-crowd was pretty loud, but bance was the teenage fan club in front of they learned how to control themselves. Tim Solo · me. If you ever get a chance to see these They realized it was easier to hear if people two men jam, I would highly rncommend it.
Wild Horses 
weren't screaming thn words to every song. ·It wasn't a rock concert -it was a musical
Dancing Nancies
There were many high points during the performance. show. The stripped-down acoustic display of the many hits was very refreshing. "The 
Encore
Stone" was a haunting selection that ended with Matthews singing the words to Elvis · Warehouse Presley's "Can't Help Falling In Love." Tripping Billies Geoffrey BaLie 
however, was not limited to possibly the best con­As for the concert, we reallv had no idea what to cert I have ever or will ever see in my life. I was also expect since this was o u r 0fi rs t time at a Dav n able to partake in one of the quintessential college Matthews/Tim Reynolds show. Aftc1r tlrn_ doors
63 in a 45 

experiences -the "road trip." opened, we were surprised to see nothing more than 
another perspective
When we are older and college is nothing more than a patchwork of memories and glorious tales that we cannot help but laugh at. there will be moments 
when we ran do nothing but be grateful we had the chance to experience this time in our lives. This I know to be completely true because it is what high school has become in my mind. 
On reb. 21, 1999. I was one of the fortunate 1,400 to experience three hours of acoustic bliss with Dave Matthews and Tim Reynolds. Th<! value of the day, 

Geoff and I left campus at about 1 p.m. The doors to the show opened at 6:30 p.rn., but we really had no idra how long it was going to take us to get down to DePauw University, Greencastle, Ind. After we gassed up the car and grabbed some lunch. we were on our way. We put some music on and began a lengthy discussion on women and relationships, which lasted almost the entire four-hour trip. 
We arrived in Greencastle with plenty of time to find the concert hall. While we were walking around the performing arts center where the concert was being held, we were lucky enough to see Dave get out of his tour bus and make his way into the build­ing. He turned and waved and we waved back. It was a very emotional experience. 
a high school auditorium. On the stage, thnro were 
four guitars, two chairs and a table with a couplci of 
wooden elephants. 
It was interesting to see the number of people 
attending the show who were not college students. 
There were a fair share of teenyboppers but also 
some very young kids and some rather older people 
in attendance. M9st of the collegt~ crowd funneled in 
approximately two minutes before showtime as pea.­
pie milled around waiting for the lights to go out. 
The biggest question in my mind was whether the crowd was going to be a good one. When Matthews and Reynolds came out onto the stage there was a · roar -as much of a roar as 1,400 people can make. The audience was mostly well-behaved, except for 

O
Tl-lE 
Wednesday, February 24, 1999 BSERVER page 13 
I' I c,_,uld tell the world just one thing/it would lw w,•'rn all okay." If' you havP 

• lw,•n anywlH•rn near a ra.dio !'or the 
''I 
past two or thrcH! months. thnrn is not d,iulit you llavo alrmuly !ward l.lrnst) ovnrsimpli­finlf lyril'.s to lh1• first rnlnasn from .lnwnl's sopho­morn alllllm "Spiri!0 entitled "!lands." Hnl1ias1\d in Novnmlwr of' I(J<JK. the 13-song al hum nxp11ncls up11n ttw minimally prnchH:('d som1<.l of lwr IIJ1J4 mulli-plafinum dPbut. "l'incns of' You," whirh f'patun•d such hits as "Who Will Save Your Suul" and "You W,irc M,1ant li,r Mn." Since then, tlw album has rnmai1wd at tlrn top of' Billboard's Top :wo list, s1icuring .l11wpl's status as onn of' th1• industry's lop JH'rf'ornwrs. 
1:ill<'d wilh simply stalt\d inspirational tlrnmes, t.111• album is wstinwny lo .lnwel's Krnwth as a woman. Conn is tlw young girl-against-thn-wrn·ld angst of' hnr (H11vious album, having bt!Cll rnplaf'1•d by romforting imagos of raith and ho1w. WhilP tlw artist l'f'llHtins fraught with vulrrnrubil­ily and somnlinws dissatisfaclion, this linrn she is not conl.1•111 to wallow in it. · 
"I knew nx,u:tly ,vhat I wanted to do with this r<word und wllut I wantnd il to do lo pnopln," .l!!Wt'I rncently told llillhoard Magazino. "I want­nd to writ!' 11 n!cord that was llw anLidote to all thP things which mad1i mn worry in thn world, so that il's rnml'orting sonrnlww." 
l/111'ortu11ul,!ly. in llw nxpression ol' this anti­dol(', .IPWPI wavPrs across an ullrathin lino lwtwn1•11 simplkity and naivd11. In tlw al'ornmnn­timwcl "!lands," for nxampln, she couragPously sings "W,i'II liglit, not out of spitn/For sonrnonn 11111st st.and up for whal's righl." Thnni arn time's 

•
vrews 
whon slrn is a littlo too simple for hor own good. 
The album itsclf, prorl11ccd by Patrick LPona.rd, who is bnst known for his work with Madonna, is a solid follow-up to Jewel's formor work, although at times it is a little monotonous. The amber tonP.s of' J,iwel's voice am full o/' a 11t1w­fot1nd con11dnncn, but thry are at times so relax­ing that it almost lilts tlrn listener to slt1np. 
Toward the middle ol' llrn album, thn songs hog'in tu run togetlrnr, until the morn poppy, upbeat song "Lif'c Uncommon" intercepts them. Tho album slows down again, however, with the lust two songs of' tlrn album, but the beautiful melodies of "Absence of Fear" and simple har­mony in the bonus track "This Littlfl Birr!" arc so genuine that thoy sot those songs part from the other_s. 
What is evPn morn unique about the bonus track is Urnt it actually features tlw vocals of' .lowcl's motlrnr rather than her own. It is oasy l'rom this song to see whnrn .Jewi;I gels twr incrndible vocal range and control. Tl1P. union of' tlwir ranges results in a lrnautil'ul mother-daugh­ter duct that cradlfis tho listener through tho encl of'the CO. 
Whiln "Spirit" does not have breakthrough number-one hits like "Who Will Savo Your Soul" and "You Wero Meant for Me," the overall album is fairly strong and consistent -perfect ror any .lewd fan, but maybe not for everyone. 
Kelly Cooney 

Blink 182 
Buddha 
Kung Fu Records 
*** (out of five)
H1iy llwrn musk loVPrs! The Big Kahuna is Imm to tell ya all about the new lllink-182 CD. The San Dingo punk rock trio has recently released "Buddha," a digilally remixed and rnmastcrncl vorsion o[' their earliest stu­dio rnrordings. "Tilt• good p1wplc at Kung Fu (Hncords) have agreed to unlnash thnsfl tracks from !hf' vault," according to Blink. Tlws1i nirordi11gs had previously sat collecting dust on a shcir in guitar player Tom DPlongp's living room. Now, dustP<l off and rPmast1mHI. Blink invites you to "enjoy this whimsical jottrnPy hal'k to our humhll' bnginnings rncorde<l at Double Time Studios in San l>it•go, Calil'., ovl'r tlmw rainy niglits in JCJC):i, just six months al'tnr tlw hand l'ornwd." First. I think it is appropriatP to providl' you with a little background on Blink-182. Tlwy'rp a thrr•(•-pinn• punk-nll'k lwml l'rom California. Those of you who listen to my radio show will !'l'rogniw them as tlw hand who plays "Wasting Time," the song I always usNI Lo spin l'or tlw B.I'. girl. Othrrwisc, you've probably heard their song "llammil" 1111 tlw radio, in !lin rnr, at a party or in llrn movie "Can't llardly Wait." You may n•r.ognizP "Dammit" from it's lyrics -"And it's happened once again/You'll turn lo a friend/Someone that undnrstands/And sees through the master plan/But PVPryorw is gone/And l'vn been lwre for too longffo far.e this on my ow1i/\,V(•l1 I guess this is grnwing up." lllink-182 is also <T<•ditPd wilh tlrn release of two other two albums -"Cheshire Cat" and "Duell' Hanrh." "Bmldha" is tlwir third rnlnase in four years. Buddha lias a total ol' 14 songs. my l'avorile being "21 Days."·It seems that almost f'Vf'ry hand plays a 1·heCTsy lov11 song. Blink has a bunch, with "21 Days" being one of them. Distortion lill1; tlw hackgrnun<I ilS Torn l>nlonge sing that "My mind wanders as I'm trying not lo fall in loVI' with you." 
The l'ast punk rhythm, loud guitars and catchy lyrics of Blink-182 make this album pleasing to those who nnjoy the power-punk edgn. Bnsides being catchy, thn lyrics am of'ten downright amusing. In a song called "T.V.," bass guitarist Mark lloppus sings, "When I'm at work r always rush right home /'or lunch/So I can chock out what's up on tho Brady Bunch/And when I'm walking through the front door at night/I gotta see who's winning on the Price ls Right." 
Most songs tend to deal with tho subjects of girls, friends, television programs and the funny things that always seem to happen to people our age. Sonrn otlwr song titles include "Borneo and Hebccca," "Tho Girl Next Door," "Carousel" and "HPl'llllk Commercial." 
Dnspite the high amusement factor of Buddha, I lind tlw album to lw ll'SS Pnjo~ ­able than Blink's lirst two CDs. It does not have a ..radio l"riPmlly" song and larks variety in music.al style. "Buddha" is the kind of album that would ,1ppPal to 1wnplP who are already Blink-182 fans. In my opinion, the CD is not a good r1'JH'Psl'ntati11n of their musical talents. 
For now, I suggest that you hol<l off buying it and instPad pil'k up t1111' of tlwir other roleasos, "Dude Ranch" or "Cheshire Cat." These havP a IJPttl'r sl'lt•l'tinn nl' sorigs, a larger scope of musical styles and will give you a bPtlPr impn•ssinn nl' "hat the group has to offer. Only after you decide that you enjoy tlwsP t\\o Blink CDs would I suggest purchasing "Buddha." Otherwise, spend your dinPro on sonwthing else. \, 
KeitL Kawamoto 
tlw girls in tlrn l'ront row who kr'pt standing up and dancing. 1-'ortunaLl'ly, tlwy worn soon yoll<~u clowu. 1\1101.twr lowlight. wus tlrn luck 111' respect. givnn to Ikynolrls wh1•11 lw playnd. Ol'tnn peopl11 would begin talking loudly anti moving around. 
o,w ol' lhP h1ist parts of' any Dnv1\ Mautwws/Tim I!,•y II o Ids sh II w is th c " I) a v esp Pak , " so rm n11i d lwrn11s1• it is wlwn Matlllf'ws sp,~aks t11 tlw audience. Tlw storit•s and tlrn inlnl'lt{'.tion lwtw1i1m him and us just madn th<' room 1'1wl t!v1•11 small1ir. /\mong the highlights of' tlw songs that he played were "1!1•conrilc Our DilTercnces," which mcrdy by the fact that. it is an unrnlnased song mado it worth !waring. !\lso of rrntri wnr1) "Thn Stone," "Two Step" with a grnal nnding, "Say (;oodhyn" and his com­nwnts on how stupid what happ,~ns in the song can be, ''Jimi Thing" -not only just for "Jimi Thing" but for tlw fact that lrn played II bluns vorsion of AC/DC's "Shook Me /\II Night Long" near tht> nnd -and the "What. Will Bocorne of Mc/Pantala Naga Pampa" ending. 01rn or the lowlight.s of' the sd was the weird acoust.ir. version or ''Stay." I likud the music. but Matthews' singing sounded like it was to a dH'fnrnnt song. 
Tim best songs o!' the show wern "llalloween," which was f'illcd wilh emotion. "Wild llorsc1s," a grnat Holling stonns r.ovcr that sounded great acoustic and is such a great song. and last but not least "Spoon," which is just one of Orn most b(1autiful songs wllfln it is played acoustically. The best part of the show !'or me was lo he ablo to see the sheer mastory of the guitar by one Mr. Hnynolds. The first song that ho played was onn that I had nevnr heard before, and it kept me on the Bdgt>. or my seat wait­ing for each note. lie alone would have been worth tho drive. His second solo song was "Loose Interpretation" with a portion of "Big Blast of llot !\ir" thrown in for good measure. I was excited 
· bncause "LoosP Interpretation" is one ol' my favoritP 
songs and I was probably the only p11rso11 in the 
place who recognized it. 
All told, it was a very exciting night and a rlay that 
I will reniembnr for some ti111n. Oh, and spnaking ol' 
tlrn lowlights ol' the night. I rncnivcid a tickc,t for vio­
lating a speeding ordinance in the town ol' Bunkl'r 
Hill. somewlrnrn in llw middle of Indiana. I was 
clocked going (d in a 45-milns-iwr-hour zonn. But, I 
don'-t really mind. Why, you ask? Becausn it gavn lllP 
a titlP lo my review and ii made thn day l'Vl'n morn 
memorable. 


page 14 The Observer• SPORTS Wednesday, February 24, 1999 
¦ WAY OuT IN LETT Fino 

l~-:~~rl6'~~UOE··Q.A$EBA~( 
Clemens out of place in NY ~:GIikey Rills trade 
By JOHN COPPOLELLA ling of Big Apple sports Clemens. Spnm C:olumnisr reporters and also had a That deal. however, was 
to Pittsburgh
breakthrough year, posting ari nixed by Clemens because the 18-4 record with a 3.49 ERA Astros would not give him a "I feel very fortunate to have and topping it off with a per­one-vear contract extension 
Assodatt:d Press the Diamondbacks still search-a second chance to be a fect game. Wells was the for a$27 million balloon so be 
. ing for a leadoff hitter and Yankee," Hoger Clemens said. Yankees most dependable could get his salary on par 
TUCSON •some much-needed speed. "I htid the opportunity two starter last ynar and a fan with Kevin Brown's -a 7­
Despite the laser ey~ surgery Diamondbacks General years ago to be part of the favorite. ycar, $105 million deal with 
b.13 underwent last September, Manager Jo~ Garagiola Jr. was Yankee organization Ibefore After this signing as a free tho Los Angeles Dodgers. 
· Bernai:d Gilkey couldn't see on the phone about other pos• signing as a free agent with agent in 1996, Wells immedi­Clf1mens signed with the 
,·hirM~Jf'Jn a Pittsburgh Pirat~s ~il:)lc trades Tuesday afternoon. Toronto!. To gHt a second alely became the Yankees' Blue Jays two years ago 
.fur1J£9rm, ..... ·.···. < .. • QHkey was in a position to chance is very exciting and most lively character. While because he wanted to lead 
·"T.h<i•> Arizona 'outfielder , veto the trado because the I'm truly thrilled to be here," he offered to "punch out" them to the World Series. This 
;tefj.t~fid·a restructuring bffii9•·•· feinainlng two years of his con· Is he really doing it again? Yankees owner George year might 11avc been his best 
·... contract on, Tuesday, killing.a tract needed to be restructured In case you missed it, the Steinbrenner, he was morP chance with the team pegged 
·tradethat would have senthim I:hffore the Diamondbacks New York Yankees pulled off a than a clown. Ile; knew more as a Wild Card challenger and 
to· .the Pirates for Tony would go through with the blockbuster trade last week, Yankees history than any play­the only rnal threat to the 
Womack and Al Martin. deal Gilkey is due $11 million acquiring Jive-time Cy Young er on the team and signed Yankens in the American 
The dedsion had nothing to forthe next two years, with Award winner Clemens from with the team as a lifelong League East. But Clemens left 
.do with money. Gilkey just halfofthe money deferred. the Toronto Blue Jays !'or Yankees ran. He idolized Babe Toronto just as he left Hoston 
wanted to stay with the The Diamondbacks were David Wells. Graeme Lloyd Ruth. -in search of greener pas­
Diamondbacks. willing to pay tho deferred and llomer Bush. On pitper, Baseball, however, is a busi­tures and perhaps more plen­
"There's no knock against amount. but Gilkey had to sign the trade looks liko it will ness. Clemens is coming off of tiful greenbacks. 
the Pittsburgh organization or off on some changes in the make the Yankees an even two consecutive Cy Young Clemens seems out of place 
anything like tha~." Gilkey said. details. more dominating team, but if Awards and has reclaimed his in a Yankee uniform, sort of · "This choice was made for. me •· Both dubs did a lot of work baseball wrro on paper, the spot as one of the game's best like Fidel Castro draped in an 
~nd the benefit ot' my famHy, on this," Pirates' general man­Raltimore Orioles would be in pitchers. With the Yankees, he American f1ag. The ultimate 
:::tind,tlle posslliUit.yoftaking l.lS ag~r Cam Bonifay said. the playoffs. is expected to continue pitch­irony is that whrm Clemens is >t<J eason/. · · · ~t:Atizona did a lot of work with In reality, the Clemens trade ing at this high level. but will elected to the Hall of Fame, · .....·.. .•··· • 32 ta1ked aboutthe' their player, but he decided he 
makes sense only as a preven­he be able to do it? Will he that is the uniform he will be 
'Diatrtoridhaclcs' struggles he didn't want to take the deal tive measure. Two of the want to do it? wearing. 
.saw after he was traded to that was pres,mtHd.~ pitcher's three main suitors -Before signing with the Blue As much as I hate the Red 
Arizona by the New York Mets Martin is not happy with the the Cleveland Indians and Jays two years ago, Clemens Sox mvself, it is their uniform 
lai,t July 31. He watched in prospect of spending a season Texas Rangers -might face was a combined 40-39 in his that he should wear when he 
anticipation as the as a Pirates' reserve, and the Yankees in the playoffs, last four years with the Boston is elected to Cooperstown. It 
Diamondbacks spent $118.9 Womack's status as second and Cleveland, in particular, Red Sox. He has pitched more symbolizes the glory days of 
million on free agents in the baseman is in jeopardy would have been a more seri­innings in the past 15 years "the Rocket," when 20-strike­
offseason, building a pitching because Pittsburgh signed free ous threat if they had an ace than any other active major out performances and 20-win 
rotation that's one of the best agent Pat Meares to play short­of Clemens· magnitude. league pitcher. He is 36 years seasons were the norm. 
inhaseball. stop and planned to switch Nevertheless, this trade does old. Clemens is a great pitcher. 
.. He also knew of the trades Mike Benjamin to second. not make sense for the llis primary reason in sign­He may be the outstanding 
·. Pittsburgh had. made to bring Bonifay indicated the Pirates Yankees. Last year's club set a ing with the Yankees was the pitcher of our generation. His 
·. in ou~elders intheoff-season. would look elsewhere to make major-league ~ecord with 125 chance to win a World Series. trade to the Yankees is signifi­
.·. )\fthinkthe outfield is alittle a trade. wins thanks to team chem-Initiallv, when he "demanded" cant because Clemens and his 
~qr$ crowded in Pittsburgh," "If the opportunity presents istry. The Yankees had many to be traded, he wanted to be five Cy Youngs -which, inci­
.cttll<,~y:said. "l did what Uelt . itself, and WC felt WC could get good players but no real closer to home and the Blue dentally, arc one more than 
VllitsCbe,stfor me and my family quality players and it was a sit• supr-rstars. This worked well. Jays began talks with the the Yankees have managed 
aIJ,ci'what We would enjoy.T uation where ii might help out, espr.cial!y against the New Hangers and the Houston throughout their rich tradition wahted to be in a nice atmos-we might [make a trade]," York nrndia, which love to Astros. Talks with the Rangers -bring more than his talent phere and I want to be around Bonifay said. "If not, we'll get slam the overachiever. never materialized, but the to New York. Unfortunately, a team that's moving in the together with [owner] Kevin 
Losing Wells doesn't make Astros allegedly had a deal that excess baggage may make right direction." McClatchy and see where he sense either. He was the dar-worked out to acquire the Yankees regret this trade. The collapse of the deal left wants to go." 
¦ COLLEGE BASKETBALL 

Tarheels rally to put away Wake Forest in OT 
Associated Press 
CHAPEL HlLL 
If No. 14 North Carolina was looking ahead to top-ranked Duke, the Tar Heels almost looked a little too far. 
North Carolina (22-7, 10-5 Atlantic Coast Conference) rallied from its largest half­time delicit of the season to finally put away Wake Forest 68-65 in overtime Tuesday night. 
Jason Capel, tied for the ACC lead in free throw shoot­ing at 86 percent, made four foul shots over the final 22 seconds of the extra period to win it. 
The victory gives North Carolina, who will try to derail Duke's undefeated ACC season on Saturday night, a school-record seven straight 10-win seasons in the ACC. 

Ademola Okulaja, Kris Lang and Brendan Haywood led the way for North Carolina with 16 points each. 
The Demon Deacons (15-12, 6-9) fell to 1-14 in the Smith Center as Robert O'Kelley led the way with 28 points. 
But the 3-point ace fouled out with 1:09 left in overtime, leaving a huge offensive void for Wake Forest. 
Ervin Murray's long 3-point attempt to send the game into a second overtime at the buzzer hit off the front of the rim. 
It appeared Oku laj a had won his second game for lhe Tar Heels in a four-day span with a three-pointer -this one with 34 seconds left in regu lati on to gi vn North Carolina a 58-55 load. 
But after the teams traded froc throws, O'Kelhiy's sixth 3•pointer of the game with 3.4 seconds• left sent the game into an extra fiveaminutc peri­od. 
Ed Cota had a chance lo win it in regulation, but threw up an airball from the baseline as time expired. 
The Observer accepts das.sifieds every business day from 8 a.rn. to 3 p.m. at rhe Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.rn. All classifieds rnusr be prepaid. 
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the righr to edit all classifieds for content without issuing rcfonds. 
4'  NOTICES Spring Break Bahamas Party  IILOST & FO~ND I LOST: Notre Dame Class Ring.  PERFECT JOB FOR STUDENT SPOUSE/S.O. ND Prof & his professional wife seek childcare provider in their house for 2 preschool  NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND 8,6,4,3,BEDROOM 2773097 BED 'N BREAKFAST  NEW Rates Phone Cards 282 min. $20 call 258-4805 PERSONAL  MW· Is there some kind of stress hotline I can call Gina· word up, homes  
Cruise•SNights $2791Includes.  Description: Aquamarine stone with  children. Hours, transp.,  REGISTRY  
Meals & Free Parties!Awesome  name engraved on the inside of the  benefits & wages negotiable  219·291-7153  When you need copies ...  Gina,  
Beaches.Nightlife!Departs From  ring. lnitials-PML Call 273-9813.  (approx. 30 hrs/wk). If  We're OPEN!!!  I'm sorry I love Shannon more than  
Florida!Cancun & Jamaica $399'  interested, please call  FLORIDA SPRING BREAK  you. Please leave me alone.  
springbreaktravel.com  Lost: Spiderman Folder and assign­ 631-7345.  SANDPIPER-BEACON BEACH  THE COPY SHOP  Sincerely,  
1-800-678-6386  ment notebook. If found please call  RESORT PANAMA CITY BEACH  LaFortune Student Center  USHER RA'YMOND  
0992.  Accounting Students! Earn cash  FLORIDA FROM $159 PER PER­ 631:COPY  
Spring Break Panama City  and a free CPA exam review  SON  California Crew ­ 
$129!Boardwalk Room w/Kitchen  Beanie Baby-Found Feb. 15th  course.Be a campus rep for  3 POOLS 1 INDOOR POOULAlY  Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight  Can't wait to hit the beach!  
Next To Clubs!? Parties-Free  between South Dining Hall and the  CPAexcel,the course that makes  RIVER RIDE HUGE BEACHSIDE  Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm  
Drinks!Daytona $149!South Beach  K of C. (It looks new so I'm assum•  passing the exam easier.  · HOTTUB SUITES UP TO 10 PEO- Sat: Noon-6:00pm  Jen·Good luck with Godspell. I will  
$1291Cocoa Beach $149!  ing Iha! it's someones V-day gift.)  Visit www.cpaexcel.com or call toll- PLE FREE INFO 1·600-488-8828  Sun: Noon-Midnight  belhere clapping Friday night  
springbreaktravel.com  Call 234-6445.  free 888-884-5669  WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM  
1-800-678-6386  Yeah OBSERVER, party like its  I am Baldom hear me roar  
How Green is Green?  WANTED  HELP WANTED: RETAIL SALES  2 Bdrm. Apt al College Park avail­able to sublease for summer ses­ 1999 tonight!!!!!!'  Marie•  
New store in U.P. Mall1 Full,2 Part­ sion. Call 4-3620.  Welcome home babe.  Sorry, but I'm moving out. I mean, I  
Work in Ireland on a Student  CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT  time needed  How was the rat?  just love the SDH basement too  
Work Abroad Program and hnd out!  Workers earn up to $2,000+/month  Flexible hours.good pay  3 BDRM. DUPLEX,  much.  
Call 1-888-Council and ask for  (w/tips & benefits).World  Call now (419)233-1325  REMODELED, 501 EDDY ST.  •• ATTENTION LESBIAN, GAY,  I have to live here.  
Tom.  Travel!land-Tour jobs up to  1 Ml. FROM CAMPUS APPLI·  BISEXUAL AND QUESTIONING  
CANCUN.BAHAMAS  $5,000-$7,000/summer Ask ushowl 517-336-4235 Ext.C55842  FOR RENT  ANCES, WID. 273-8332.  STUDENTS •• Original student group will hold SUPPORT meeting  Mary Kay• Won't you be my neighbor? Oh, I  
PANAMA CITY  tomorrow 2125­Call info line for  guess we are.  
Get FREE PARTIES with USA Spring Break!  SUMMER CAMP JOBS LANO/WATER SPORTS  WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6BEDROOM  FOR SALE  details 236-9661.  Love, Usher.  
Call 1-686-777-4642 to book  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS/  STARTING $185  Ali• You so jersey girt! Thanks for  
your trip today!  LAKE PLACID  MONTH/PERSON  89mazda rx7 $5300 mustsell  my screen saver. It was a pleasant  AU,  
1-800-786-8373  232-2595  like new. 2888701  surprise.  Hey, that's miami  

11,,,.__;__• 


Wednesday, February 24, 1999 The Observer. SPORTS page IS 
¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Raise in strike zone raises umpires' tempers 
Associated Press tolling them tho ollicial definition commissioner's office under Bud Phillips said his people were left enforce a rule," he said. "Tho or the strike zono "will be morn Selig. out of the decision. umpires enforce all of the rulm;. Nf<:WYOHK strictly rmforrnd" by umpires Thn move appears designed to "Neither the umpires or the That's boen their job for mon! Baseball's plan to raisn tho this year. get umpires to call higher umpires association were r,on­than 100 yoars. It is dcplorablo sLrik11 zo1w has raised Urn irn of The note came from Sandy strikes. In recent years, umpires sulted .on this issue," Phillips for Urn commissioner's ol1icc lo umpires, ton. Aldrrson, th<\ new executive rarely called any pJlt.ch above the:> said. indicate that the umpires have 
Last Friday, a rnr.mo was sent dirnctor of baseball operations belt a strike. "I don't sec how anyone could not strictly enforced all of tlrn to all 30 rnajor lnague teams. and part of the restructured But umpires union head Hichie say we're going to more strictly rules." In a rarity, the playP.rs associa­
tion backed owners, for thr, most part. "There never has boon a good
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS 
reason for why players should have to adjust to 32 diffnrenl strike zones, so some effort to
and Students Who Attended lligh School(', ln,:ernationally 
make the striko zorw more uni­form is to bo welcomed," said Gene Orza, tlrn No. 2 official of the players union. 
The Offict of Undergraduate Admissions and the Intematior al Student 
"On the other hand, asking the umpires to undertake right away a wholesaln change in the way 
Recruitment Committee invite undergraduate students 
they do their business could upset the tempo of the game. 
to join us for dinner and a brief meeting to discuss 
participating in our new and exciting initiatives to heir Notre Dame 
What's rnquirml hero is thn right mix of' dctnrmination and
recruit international stud~nts to the University. 
patience." 
Tho existnncc of the memo. which was s1mt to teams Friday, was first rnportnd Monday by
We will meet in the Coffee House in the Centerfor Social Concerns, 
the Los Angelos Times. and a copy of' tho memo was obtained
Wednesday February 24th . Dinner will be served at 530 p.m., 
by The Associated Pross. "This is to inform you that, at
with our meeting to fol1ow. 
the dirnction of commissioner Selig, and ·aner consultation with 
Please join us with your ideas, energy and app ~tite 
the leagun prnsidents, the 'striko zonn' as defined in tlrn of'licial playing rules will b1! more strict­ly enforced in 1IJ1J9 by urnpirns in both leagues," Aklnrson wrotP
INTERNATIONAL STUU¥:NTS 
to t<~ams. In thn memo, which was snnt 
to all managers and gennral
and Students Who Attended High Schools In.:eruationally
-·' _________.. 
managPrs, Alrlnrson said that while Um top ol' I.he strike zorw is difficult lo clnf'irw, "the uppnr limit of the strikn zone will ext!md two inches abovn tlw top of tlm uniform 1mnts." 
Criticism of' dif'i'Pring strike zones escalated during the )1)1)7 NL playoffs when a wide strike 
You Will Be
COPY SHOP 
zone by Eric Grngg led to a 15­strikno u t game by Florida's
LaFortune Student Center 
Livan llnrnandez against Atlanta. 
AL umpirns wern criticiznd for several blown calls during last year's playoffs, one of' the rea­sons Selig is trying to shift 
Phone 631-COPY 
~For Dynamite 

responsibility over umpires away from the leagues to Alderson. "The strike zone is the strike 
zone," Phillips said. "Is tlrnrn a different strike zone in the American Lnague and National 
Des1<.top l'-ublishiTig 

League'? Dnlinitnly not. Somn of thnm may sec it different, but the strikn zone is the strike 
Stop in and see what we can do for you! zone." 
The umpires' labor agrnmnnnt Resumes • New1etters • Flyers • Brochures expires after this season, and a Business Cards• Letterhead & Envelopes confrontation between owners 
Invitations • Table Tents • Forms • Postcrc; & More! and umpires is expected, Umpires have benn demanding Adobe • Illustrator•, Photoshop ®, & P,1gemaker ® more backing since 1996, whmi 
Microsoft• Word•, Powerpoint ®, Excel ®, & Windows"' 98 Hoberto Alomar, then of the Baltimore Orioles, spit at umpirn Monday -Thursday: 7:30 am to Midnight John Hirschbeck and was sus­Friday: 7:30 am to 7:00 pm pended for only five games. Saturday: Noon to 6:00 pm • Sunday: Noon to Midnight Since then, umpires have 
se,vices... 

Our terrific, affordable copies are just what you've been looking for! It's our job to make sure our customers get the highest quality copies al the most reasonable prices. We take pride in giving you everything you want in a copy shop and more! 
Quality Copies, Quickly!: 
Copyrighl 1999 • All Rights Reserved 

demanded owners and players agren to a "code of conduct."  
#24 Men's Tennis vs. Boise State Fri. Feb. 26th at3:00pm Eck Pavilion  HOCKEY vs. N. MICHIGAN Fri. Feb. 26 at 7:00pm Student Appx · tiori Night First 440 students ~ '! and ..... Sat. Feb. 27 at 7:00pm  .......  
__J  

I 
I I 
I 
I I 
I I 
I I I I I 
r--·------...... ..--w-·-·-­
I I 
I 
: Wednesday, February 24, 1999 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 16 
I 
I I I ­
I 
I I I I I 
CHRIST AS IN 

PRI L 
APRIL 17, 1999 
Join together with up to seven of your friends to participate in Christmas in April ( CIA). 
CIA is a one day working session during which the South Bend community joins forces with the students, faculty, and staff of Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, and Holy Cross College to renovate and repair the homes of the needy, elderly, and handicapped residents of a South Bend neighborhood. 
------------~ 
SIGN-LIPS 
Wednesday, Feb. 24 & Thursday, Feb.2S 11 AM to 2 PM 4 PM to 8 PM 

AT LIBRARY CONCOURSE 
.,, 
AND LAFORTUNE IST FLOOR ELEVATOR LOBBY 
Sign-Ups Also in D-ining Halls at Saint Mary's 


6imitid ~pot~ '(lvailabli ~ 
• 
Questions? Contact BobbyVillareal at ~\, 634-1943 orVillareal.l@nd.edu __........ 
Wcc-dnesday, February 24, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 17 
¦ BOXING 
Ali packs punch with plans for first pro fight 
LOS ANGl'.I.ES 

Shn has ynl to lhrow a profos­sional punch. Shn rl<wsn't havn a pro111ot.1•r. Slw has no proven skills. 
And ynt, she is drawing attnn­tion in the nedgling world of women's boxing bncausc of her last name: Ali. 
Laila Ali. the sHcond-ynungest 
' 

of Muhammad Ali's nine chil­drnn and his youngest daughter, is working out daily and might bn ready for her first pro light this summer. 
Thtl 21-ytlar-old anoroachPrl 

At Davisson you get the help you need to get your work done. 
Davisson Cluster 
2nd Floor O'Shag 
At just 99¢, this deal's gonna make your mouth water. 
(Not to mention your eyes.) 


Try the delicious new Cheese 'n Onion Melt Burger, right now only 99¢. 
Cry out for the tasty new Cheese 'n Onion Melt Burger on the 9911: Great Tastes Menu 
at Burger King• restaurants. It's a juicy flame-broiled burger smothered with sauteed 
onions and melted cheese, right now just 99¢. That's right, just 99¢. It's a deal so good, 
it may bring tears to your eyes. But don't worry, you can always just say it's the onions. 
Limited time only. Price and participation may vary. 
The Huddle -LaFortune Student Center 
~ 
BURGER 
KING 
It just tastes better:

www.burgcrking,com 
O 1999 Bur~r King Corporat110n, burger King Corpor;i.t1on 11 thr exdu•lw lictruiu ofthe "It juat tut~• better" trademark anJ the rql1tm~:d Burger King and Bun Halvie, logo trademarb. 
her father late last month to 
inform him she planned to fol­
low in his footsteps. 
"Well, Daddy," she ~aid, 
according to The New York 
Times, "I want to tell you I'm 
going into professional boxing, 
and I love you, and I want your 
support, and I want to tell you 
that even if I don't have your 
support, I'm going to do it any­
way." 
That's probably something Ali 
might have said before he began 
his brilliant career as Cassius 
Clay in the late 1950s. 
The 57-year-old former heavyweight champion who is weakened by Parkinson's Syndrome, at least in part because of boxing, told his daughter he didn't want her to get hurt. 
"Daddy, I'm not going to get hurt," she rnplied. 'Tm going to be fighting women, not men. And I have your genetics." 
So far, the 5-foot-10, 160­pounder has only sparred with her trainer, Kevin Morgan. 
"She's very much like her dad, she's aggressive, very sure of herself. very confident," NormaLynn C:utler, Laila's pub­licist, told The Associated Press on Tuesday. "She also has an oflbeat sense of humor like her father. 
"She's extremely charming, and if I had to use one word, I'd say focused or determined, one word or the other." 
Cutler said Laila will probably fight for the first time in August and is getting tips from her famed father. 
"She won't tell anyone, includ­ing me, what they are," Cutler said. "She says, 'When I have the grnatest boxer of' all timo as my nwntor, why would I want to sham Urn sncrets he's given 
?"
me. 
Cutler said she's known Laila 
for about three years. 
"She was working in tho 
beauty industry and I happnnod 
to uso her sorviclls," Cutlnr said. 
"She believes she's going to be a 
champion and change the face 
of femaln boxing. 
"For one thing, she is 
extremely beautiful, not that 
there aren't beautiful boxers." 
Laila never saw her father box 
in person, and told tlw Times 
she had few memories of living 
with him. But by boxing, she 
believes he will gain a greater 
apprnciation for her as his child. 
"He's naturally going to see himself in me," said Laila, who with her sister, Ilana, grew up in Malibu with her mother. Veronica, who was Ali's third wife. "But for the first time, I think he actually can see that 'this is my child."' 
Lonnie Ali, Ali's currnnt wife, told the Times her husband had no comment on Laila's career choice. 
"Don't read anything into that," Lonnie Ali said. "This is something Laila wants to do. It hns nothing to do with Muhammad." 
Laila said that while her fatlrnr was alarmed about her direction. ho was still on her side. 
"lln told me that il was a dirty business," she said. "Jin let mo know it's a hard business, and ho l!)t me know that he s·upport­ed me." 
;~ 6 


Thursday at 10pn1 in the Gorch games room 

A 
Sign-ups this week in the game room 
Prizes to 1s1, 2nd, & 3rd Place. No Entry Fee! First 64 Get to Play. 

-
dominate its overmatchcd oppo­squad's performance in the first deficit to 21 points. Notre Dame ment." nent. half and throughout much of the never appeared vulnerable. Notre Dame's 14-3 confernncc 
Irish 

Notre Dame's tenacious half­second. "I thought that we were Riley added 17 points, 10 record secures the Irish the third 
page 18 The Observer• SPORTS Wednesday, February 24, 1999 

court defense disrupted the ilowcontinued from page 24 of the Miami attack. Following Miami would be for the remain­consecutive baskets by Green, der of the game. Riley and guard Ericka Haney, "Today we were trying to ·work the Irish foro)d a f,.tiami shot­on being more patient ,vith the clock violation. A 6-0 Notre ball." Ivey said. "Reading the Uame run became a 15-0 tear defense [isl a key thing for us. If that left the Hurricanes reeling. we ran do that. we execute real­Miami sophomore Camilli ly well." Osth, however, kept tht Shut1ing down the Miami Hurricanes within striking dis offense was equally important tance by hitting a three-poin­for the Irish. After playing the bomb with two seconds remain• Hurricanes to a near standoff ing in the first half. through eight minutes of the first "This is the best 32 minutes o half. Notre Dame stepped up its basketball that we've playec defensive intensity and began to since November," said heac coach Muffet MrGraw of her McMillen, Haney earn Big East honors Special to the Observer record. She then hit five trevs in the win at West Virginia to Senior guard Sheila McMillen tic the career mark of 231 and and freshman forward/guard finish with a game-high 25 Ericka Haney helped Notre points. Dame earn a sweep in the Big McMillen. who now holds or East wreklv awards as the two shares threr, school records, is were honored for their contri­seventh on the school's all­butions lasL week in wins over time scoring list with 1,356 Syracuse and West Virginia. points. She currently is the For the first time in her team's second-leading scorer career, McMillen was honored averaging 15. 7 points per as the league's co-player-of­game. the week as she shared the Haney was selected for honor with Miami's Kym Hope. weekly rookie honors for the Hanev shared co-rookie-of-the­first time this season as she week accolades with Boston averaged 13.0 points and 6.0 College's Becky Gottstein. rebounds off the bench in McMillen averaged 22.5 Notre Dame's two conference points and 4.5 rebounds last victories last week. Against the week while reaching two Irish Orangewomen, she scored 12 milestones. In an 82-60 win points and grabbed seven over Syracuse, she finished rebounds, and then con­with 20 points and tied her tributed 14 points, five career-best with eight rebounds and three steals in rebounds. McMillen, who has the win at West Virginia.80 three-pointers on the sea­Haney, who averages 6.4 son, hit six three-pointers in points and 4.3 rebounds, has the game to break the single­scored in double figures in four season Notre Dame three-point games this season. ~i~t  sharp. We didn't turn the ball rebounds and live blocked shots seed and a first-round bye in the over. we rebounded well, wr to complete the team effort. Big East tournament, which executed well and we shot the "I thought Niele, Sheila and begins Saturday at Rutgers.ball well." Ruth. all three of them, just The Irish will take on the win­The Irish led by as many as 38 played a great game," McGraw ner of the No. 6 vs. No. 11 game down the stretch. Despite a added. "I think those three arc as they make their postseason Hurricane run that cut Miami's definitely ready for [the] tourna­debut Sunday. ,­1 1 ''W I''Yind§OfUt, jf}at male. February 18 -25 Stop by NOH, SDH, or Lafortune to fill out aquestionnaire. We'll match you with someone we think is most compatible! You will have the opportunity to buy your results in March. You get alist of 10 matches from your own grade and another list of 10 matches from remaining grades! StudenUlovemment ...::­ 
-­ HAIR MODELS NEEDED For Monday's Training Program by Licensed Professionals. Call for Information 289,5080  
PROFESSIONAL SALES OPPORTUNITY  
- CBLD, a subsidiary of a 125 yr. old Bell Company, is growing fast and developing into a true integrated Communications Provider! We are rapidly expanding into the market of Data Network Solutions that includes frame Relay, Internet Access, and IP. We currently have open­ings for Account Executives in SOUTH BEND. This individual is responsible for business to business sales of a full line of voice services, advanced data network solutions and CPE. WE OFFER: • Competitive base salaries with aggressive commission structures • Thorough paid training and ongoing support • full benefit package including med/den/life, tuition aid, and 40! K. • Career path opportunity. WE ARE LOOKING FOR PEOPLE WHO ARE: • Motivated, successful professionals looking f.or the freedom to control their own success and income. • Looking to grow their career with a dynamic organization • Confident/Assertive/Ambitious • Proven Winners! Send resume to Recruiter, 36 E. 7th St., Ste. 2300, Cinti., OH 45202 Fax (513) 369-2180 t-i=] 1...-J f.lM'l'~NA.lllw.U U~Dl'ITAJ«:f  
 


I-._ 
Wednesday, February 24, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 19 
As~ociated Pres, 
PHILADELPIUA 

lloisman Trophy winner Hicky Williams said Tuesday night that he wants to play in a city that wants him. Philadelphict ought to lit that roquirnnrnnt quito nic,ily. 
Maym· Edward G. Bendell said intnrnst in Williams has tidipsod all otlwr issues on the minds of the citizens ho rncnts. lie said people no longPr ask him about tax cuts, tho upcoming elor.tion, or other issues mayors usunlly raco. 
"Tim only question J'vo got• ten from tho people of the city of l'hiladnlphia for the last six wonks is, •/\re wc1 going to draft llicky Williams?"' Hendel! said during Tuesday nighl's banquet hold by Uw Maxwnll Footlmll Club. 
That wont along with what Williams said just minutes 1mrlior. 
"I want to go somnwlrnro wheni they're excit('(I to have nw." Williams said as he spokf' briefly to rnportnrs aft,ir signing autographs for l:hildren bufore st()pping into tho banquot hall, 
So how does Philadelphia's rPaction compare to the reac­tion 0lstlwhere? 
Williams said he doesn't know. Ihi hasn't been to simi­lar <!VPnts in other dtins. 
The NCAA record-breaking running hack from Texas rnuld rP.tt1rn to Phil.!de!phict in tho nnar ruturn, since the Eagles hold the No. 2 pick in tlw upcoming NFL draft. 
¦ NFL 
Philadelphia eager to draft Williams 
"lie just wants to play foot­ball," said Sandy Williams, tho player's mother, accepting the Maxwell Award for col­lege player of tho year on his behalf. "Ricky can adapt to any situation." 
Earlier Tuesday, Randall Cunningham spoke as the club honored him as pro foot­ball player of the year, giving him tho Bert Boll Award for the third time. lie led the Minnesota Vikings to a l 5-1 regular season while lhrow­ing 34 touchdown passes. 
"In the past l didn't. really appreciatn when I rectlivod an award," Cunningham said during a midday press confer­ence. "I was young ,tnd imma­ture and took it for grantod. But this is a great honor. I've grown (tnd now have the maturity to accept it and know what it's all about." 
Cunningham, 35. who previ­ously won tho Bert Bell in 1988 and 1990, joined Baltimore Colts quartlirback Johnny Unitas as the only thl'eo-timo winners of the award. He said returning to Philadelphia, where he spent his first 11 seasons, made it special. 
Among the other award winners cited by the Maxwell Club were Texas A&M line­backer Dat Nguyen, who won the Chuck Bednarik Award as defensive player of tho year; Tennessee's Phil Fullmer, who guided the Vols to a per­fect s!litson and the national championship and was named George Munger college coach of the year. 
Tournament March 3 -6 Madison Square Garden 
Tickets on sale Feb. 23 -26 Joyce Center Ticket Office 8:30am -5:00pm 
$40 package One package per student Must show your student ID 
Pick -up tickets at Madison Square Garden. 
Questions?? Call 631-7356. 

¦ MEN'S BASKETBALL 
ND needs victory over St. John's 
By ALAN WASIELEWSKI running oft' five straight victo­Erik Barklnv, l.avor Postr.11. Sporrs Writer ries. Two blow-outs adminis­and Tyrone Grant all avMage tered by Villanova wore fol­12 points per game. 
It is now or never for the lowed by a win the next game. Barklny might ho the biggest Notre Dame meq's basketball This team has character, but thorn in the side of the Irish team. just how much will be deter­tonight. The frr.shman aver­
Its game tonight against the mined at Madison Square ages over two steals a gamn St. John's Red Storm is the Garden at 8 p.m. tonight. and will certainly be pressur­test of the season. "Everything goes into prepa­ing the Not.rn Damn guards. 
It's a test lo see whether the ration for St. John's now," The Irish get .Jimmy Dillon hard work over the season will Macleod said after the dra­back from his "conduct unbe­be rewarded with a post-sea­matic win against West coming a Notre Dame basket­son appearance. It's a test to Virginia, showing just how ball player" suspnnsion to acid see if the team can rise up to important t.his game is. m uch-rrncded dnpth at the the lewd of a top-10 program, For the NIT to notice the point. at least for a night. It's a test Irish, they have to rise above Another aspn\'.I. to kenp an to sec _just what this team has their 8th place showing in the eye on tonight is Notre Dame's inside. Big East and the two games Troy Murphy. TIH! freshman is 
"We have a g-reat group of remaining on the schedule am sntting a new standard for Big kids," is a favorite quote of must-wins. East nnwcom<>rs, but hasn't head coach John Mar.Leod. He Beating a highly-ranknd, stepped up against ranked has a lot of <widence to back NCAA-tournament-bound opp01rnnts as lw would havP 
up his assertion. opponnnt lik11 tlrn Hect Storm liknd. 
Sunday, firth-year senior would also lrnlp make the Syrar.11s11 held him to J8 Paul Hainey won a game at postseason dream a reality.· points total in two c.ontnsts the frne-throw line after hit­St. John's has fivn players and forced tlrn ball out or his ting just one attempt his entire averaging in doubl() digit scor­hands. If Murphy can mak1• a career at Notre Dame. ing. Its 82 points per gamn statenH!nt against the H1id Freshmen Troy Murphy, David will put pressure on an Irish Storm, ho might Im ahle to Graves and Harold Swanagan defense that has troubln stop­break tlw all-time Big East are picking up ttwir produc­ping its opponents from sc<>r­freshnrn11 scoring mark for a tion when many other fresh­ing. seasou set by All<rn lv,,rson. men around the r,ountry are Another hurdle for tlrn Irish Murphy now trnils lvnrson succumbing to the pressure. is that they average 18 19.2 to 1<J.8 points per ganw. 
Seniors Antoni Wyche and turnovers per gamn. Tnams Madison Square (iardnn has Phil Hickey have played their have bcnn prnssuring thn ball hMn good to the Irish ovnr tho hearts out in every game. all season anti Notrn Danrn years, espncially against St. Sophomore Martin lngelsby has not responded. The injury .John's. Notre Damp is :l-1 limp1id into thn game against to lngelsby, leaving his status against the Rnd Storm in tlw West. Virginia on a badly in jeopardy tonight. makns hallowed basketball site, sprained ankle to play as this an even more precarious including the 7:{-(>5 win last many minutes as his injury dilemma. sNtson. St. John's also rnight allownd. It will take a team el'fort, the not be keynd up f'or tlrn gamn; 
The personal stories are not kind that Notrn Dame has its NCAA appnaranco is the only drama of the season. nashed throughout the season, assurnd as well as its Big !last 
Thn team has endured to take down the Red Storm. lournamnnt semi. heartbrnak and bouncr,d back All five Irish starters will have The Irish will nnnd tlrn upsnt every time. their hands full on defonse. ii" they want to rontinun play­
The embarrassing /\la.ska Guard Marvis Thorton is tlrn ing in 199<) and possibly Shoot-out performance was lnading scorer at 15 points per return to Madison Squarn follow<Jd by taking Indiana to gamo, swingman Hon Artnst Gurdon for tlrn NIT clrnmpi­ovnrtime before losing, then gets 14 points per game and onship. 

I <J 'I 9 
Pulliain Journalistn Fellowships 
Graduating college seniors arc invited to apply for the 26th annual Pulliam _h;urnali;m Fellowships. We will gram IO-wcek summer intern­ships to .20 journalism or lihcral arts majors in the August I 998-June 1999 
graduating classes. 
Previous internship or part-time experience at a nc\\:-.papcr is desired. or other demonstration of writing and rep011ing ability. Those who go thrnul!h the Fellowships often find new professional opportunities open­ing ur at other newspapers during and afte1: the program: Winne_rs ~ill receive a $5.250 stipend and will work at cllher The Indw11apol_,.~· St<~r and The /ndiwwpolis News or The Ari:mw Re/l/th!ic. Opportu111t1cs tor_ online training are available, along with repo11ing cxp~•ricnce at our m11:1or metropolitan daily newspapers. 
.\11 L'lllrie:-. must he postmarked by March I. 1999. Successful appli­(a111-, \\ ill he notified on or before April I and will be asked to respond i111ml.'diately with a letter of intent, at \Vhich time one-third of the cash grant will he mailed to the Fellow. 
To request an application packet. visit our Web '>ill'. L' mail li" or write: 

l<ll'-'-1..'II IL Pulliam 
Pulliam h.·llowships Director 
The Indianapolis News 
P.O. Box 145 E-mail: pulliam@starm:ws.com 
Wch ~itc: www.stamews.com/pJf 
Indianapolis. IN 46206-0145 
-
.• 
·­
page 20 The Observer• SPORTS Wednesday, February 24, 1999 

¦ 150~PmJNO ro 163-Pour..m 

Murphy-Nowak fight highlights semifinals 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ virtue of a walkover in the 155­Sports Editor pound division. Murphy's oppo­nent, freshman Nick Rubino, 
In an opening-round match, a injured his jaw and will be boxer wants nothing more than unable to compete. to work out nervous energy and On the other end of the brack­get a couple of solid rounds et, senior Tom Cronlev and under his belt. junior Steve Locher will spar off 
"You hope for a little bit more in what Cronley believes will be 
ring-time," junior captain J.R. a technical fight. Mellin said about his quick " [ guess it will be the same fight. stand-up style," Cronley said. 
With few of the top seeds get­"It will come down to who1:wer ting a full fight under their executes better." belts, endurance might be a fac­Knowing that his and Lochcr's 
tor in tonight's semifinal match­styles are quite similar, Cronley es. is taking his opponent seriously. 
From the 150-pound to the While Cronley will have the 163-pound division, only one of height advantage, he will not the top seeds got a full fight rest on his laurels. under his belt, senior Mike "We sparred a couple of LaDuke at the 160-pound divi­times. once this year and in 
sion. years past," Cronley said. 
Top-seeded Mellin did not get "Wh<'n we sparred. it was any­a full round in his opening fight, body's game." which he sees as a disadvantage The 163-pound division semi­since his opponent Matt Lynn final matches should reveal comes in with a hard fought more than the opening rounds win. did as three of the four fights 

"He has worked real hard," did not go the distance. Top­~ellin said about Lynn. "He was seeded Kevin Murphy's fight down there [in the boxing room] could turn into a brawl like an awful lot. He is a technical what his opponent, Sean boxer who throws good, straight Nowak, saw in quarterfinal punches. You can either go action. head-to-head with that or try to "The guy l'm fighting throws a throw in a little flavor." lot of power too," Murphy said. McMurtrie, won early. pete in tonight's fights. determined to prove that his 
Senior Kevin Buccellato will "lt will either be a brawl or one McMurtrie should come out fast In what could be one of the unanimous decision over Miguel try to fend off the freshman sen­of us will settle down and box. and play agressively once he more interesting matches of the Tapia wasn't a joke. sation Edward Hernandez at the Whoever is smart enough to sees an opening. evening, Joshua Kirley is set to Nothing is certain for tonight's bottom half of the bracket. actually box will probably win." The 160-pound division top face Juan Santucci. Look for fights. Some fighters have yet Hernandez's various tricks and Second-seeded Travis seed, Mike LaDuke is scheduled Santucci to enter the semifinal to show their full capabilities. quick hands could prove tough Alexander went three rounds to face Dan Saracino, who may match still riding the high from With the nervous energy worn for Buccellato. with Chris Uhart and advanced have injured his shoulder. If his upset victory over Jeff off and the field narrowed, a 
Senior captain Dave Murphy by unanimous decision while his rumors of his injury prove posi­Dobosh. majority of the matches should will advance to the finals by semifinal opponent, Billy tive, he will be unable to com-Kirley will enter the fight go the full three rounds. 
¦ 185-Pour,,m rn HEAVYWEIGHT 

Gaffney and Romanchek expect tough challenges 
KEVIN THOMPSON "I have to concentrate on me. not looking too far ahead. Sports Writer Use my strengths to my advan­"If I don't concentrate on this tage." fight, I have no chance at the 
Hold on to your seats because Johnson will need to utilize his final. You need to be in the we have a real fight on our long reach and quickness semifinal before you can be in hands. against the tenacious Gaffney. the final," Romanchek said. 
What looked to be a cakewalk Gaffney will need to maintain his Look for these fights to go for top seeds Brian "The Nutty first-round form. down to the wire. Irishman Gaffney and Mike "El "I need to duplicate my first­The 190-pound division throws Pescador" Romanchek has round performance," Gaffney an unknown into the field. turned into a battle. said. "I cannot get too impatient. Third-seeded Mike "It Hurts 
After Monday nights' bouts, 1just need to execute." More Than It Feels Good" Velten underdogs Ben "Buster" Johnson Monday night, Clay showed he won in a walkover Monday and Corey 'Tl! Make Your Face was for real, making quick work night. The tenacious Adam Look Like Mine" Clay have of James Qualters in 23 seconds. "Monsoon" June ,,vill test the off­turned into legitimate con­Clay raised a few eyebrows in campus senior in tonight's semi­tenders for the 185-pound divi­the opening round, including final. sion crown. Romanchek's, his opponent 'Tm not familiar with Velten's 
Johnson looked strong in the tonight. style," June said. "I am gonna go opener. eliminating Josh Nelson "He is a tough fighter," out, set the pace, feel things out by a unanimous decision. If Homanchek said. ''We are both and go from there." Johnson hopes to defeat Gaffney, very similar, however: similar In the other 190-pound match­

The Observer/Jeff Hsu Matt Lynn earned a split-decision victory over John Tabis in Monday's 150-pound quarterfinal to earn a spot in tonight's semifinals. Lynn will face top seed J.R. Mellin for a chance at the finals. 
FIGHTS TO WATCH 
KEVIN MURPHY PAUL CHEN vs. vs. SEAN NOWAK MARK CRIN ITI 
BRIAN HOBBINS PETE RYAN vs. vs. TRENT SANDI FUR CHRIS LEUCHTE­
FELD 

he must follow his game plan height, size. I will need to stick up, Dave "The Tank" Shenk will real test for him. It should be hook to Sean Donnelly, stopping and avoid the same trap and move and stick to my game battle Dave "Bell-Vegas" Butz. 
really interesting. You can obvi­the light early in the first round.
Gaffney's first-round opponent. plan." Butz breezed though the quar­
-
ously tell a lot more about a Tonight, the powerful Salvino
John Norton, foll .into. While most experts look for a terfinals with a Referee Stopped fighter when he is actually will face olT against the calculat­
"Ile came out too fast and tried Gaffney-Romanchek final, Contest decision, while Shenk 
throwing back at you." ing maneuvers of Michael "Theto take it to him," Johnson said. Romanchek is adamant about battled to a unanimous victory. 
The 195-pound division also Bishop" Romero. --------------------------. 
Look for this one to go the dis­pits two battle-tested fighters. The other heavyweight match­
tance with two: eV1:mly matched 
Alex Kent and Jason "J-Rod" up features two fighters cut of
fighters. 

Rodriguez provided much of different molds. Greg "Hain
Tonight will feature a boxer in 
BENGAL BOUTS 

Monday night's entertainment Man" Yatarola scored an
the 195-pound division making 
with two three-round decisions. impressive victory Monday night 
his 1999 debut. An eager Pete 
Expect this one to go three over Pat Downes. Utilizing his
"Beat the Rap" Ryan will square 
rounds. short, compact, powerful stance
SEMIFINALS 

off against the auspicious Chris 
The heavyweights provide var­stance, Yatarola won in a unani­
"Lucky" Luechtefeld. Luechtefeld 
TONIGHT AT 7 P.M. 

ied approaches. rirst there is the mous decision. 
defeated Zach Schueller shortly 
crushing, brutal, aggressive Andy "Big Cat" Riederer will
into the second round, but his
FINALS 

attack of John "The Pitbull" need to counter with a long
capabilities are still unknown. 
Salvino. On Monday night, he reach, getting full extension in
"He didn't really get much
FRIDAY AT 8 P.M. 

lived up to his nickname. Salvino his arms in order to keep the
leather thrown at him in his first 
delivered a devastating right "Rain Man" at bay. 
__________________________. fight," Ryan said. "It wasn't a 
Wn!nesday, f<ehruary 24, 1999 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 

;:. 


---··-·­
¦ 165-POUND TO 180-POUND 
r Favorites start getting seriOus 

• The Observer/Jeff Hsu 

Sophomore Chris Muro was floored by Don "Juan the Destroyer" Penn Monday night. Penn is looking to gain a second victory tonight. 
69th Annual_ ~engal,t
Bouts Sem1f1nals 
C •• 

. 

By KERRY SMITH 
Spom Writer 
With the quartorlinals behind th<'m, lmxers in tonight's semi­final round of' ttw BPngal Boul<: arr. lookin).{ Lo get serious. 
As thr fi£1ld of competitors narrows to just fnur in each division, lonighl's match-ups promisP n display or talent and rivalry. Tho first and second s1><'<1s in 1\ach division advun<:ed Monday night and will bn tough con tenders for Lhe less-sea• smwd rlmllt\ngnrs. 
In tlrn I f>!i division, hoavy t'avorilos Tom Biolchini and Don l'enn hi1p1• to dispose of thnir opponi•nts and S()t up a m11.tcl1-up in Friday's finals. Biolrhini f'arns junior Joe Kippnls while PN111 Lakus on Tony Polcari. 
Kipp1ds and J>olcari could prn:;11111. thn top s1wds with ,l sl'l'ious challm1g(', both winning upsnt vktoriC'S in thllir quarter• final nmtdies. 
Biolchini was disappointed with his op<'ning round porfor­manc,i against Doug Bartles anu hopes to improve for tonight's matd1. 
''I'm going lo have to be morn aggressiv1• from the starl," Biolchini said. "I should have attacked IBartlesI tnore and thrown straighter punches." 
l'nnn, who liv11d up to his nicknanrn of "the Ocstroyor" by taking only 48 seconds to gain a first-round vicuwy. and Polcari have spnrrod before so both compP.titors know whut to t!xpect. 
Bouts 
continued from page 24 
macln it tlwrn last year and got lwat prntty had. This yoar I'm looking to turn il around. I'm nol ov1:rconlidenl, but I'm nnt pes­simistic nither." 
On tlw olh11r side of the brack• 1•t. Dan "Too Short" Gallngos will hav11 to (:011!1•11<1 with tlrn upstarl Charles "Tlw Montana Mauler" MaddP11, who powcrnd his way inlo llw snmilinals wilh an upset vicLory oVt\l' Camilo Bueda in Urn quartPrli11als. Madden's aggres• sivl' approarh should makt\ for an i11hin•sli11g match-up with the quirk (;al!Pgos. 
"I was a liitlo disappointed 
whHn I sptffl'fld [Pokar.i]," said 
Penn. "I'm going to have to stay 
focused and try to move in and 
out l'eal quick.'' 
Polcari earned a spot. in the 
semifinals with a split decision 
in a fairly (:ivenly fought match. 
"[Penn's] pretty aggressive and throws really hard punch­es." sairl Polr.ari. ''I'm just going 
,to get in there and tak<l it one 
step at a time.'' 
The 170-pound division pits 
vntornu bnxer and top seed 
Alex Kerrigan against a rela­
lively inPxperlenced freshman 
Paul Petorson. KArrigan fought 
in control anrl dominated the 
ring during his unanimous vic­
tory Mond,1y oight and could be 
hard thr Peterson to lmndlc. 
"The few jabs I did throw 
landed," said Kerrigan. "I t.hink 
J scor1id a lot of points with 
those hits," 
No. 2 seed Tom Dehmer, who 
111trned a split decision victory 
in the quarterfinals. will face 
upset winner Mike Hammes. 
Putting No. 3 seed Brian Nestor 
on tho dofonsive right away, 
Hammes' unanimous decision 
proved the Junior to be an 
aggrnssiv1i boxer. He could be 
tough competition for Dehmor. 
Ni.1. 1 seed Brian llobbins in the 175-pound division easily advanced to the semifinals and will face Trent Sandifur in the ring lonight. Sandifur could pose a threat to the top seod, as he dominated his quarterfinal bout., knocking dO\\'ll and caus· ing two standing-eight counts for Michael Wilson before the 
"I think I've got a chance to win," Madden said. "But I've never seen IGallegosl fight. !On Monday.I I had trouble getting my jab in, bul in this fight I have a distinct reach advantage, so I'll keep working on that." 
No matter what the bout brings, however, Madden is enjoying the experience. 
"I hope we have either the same siw crowd or bigger because it's really fun to be in tlrn ring when everyone's scrnaming. It's a completely dil'­f"nrnn t nxperifrncn f'rom spar­ring," he said. 
Tim premier fight in tlw first lhrn<1 divisions may be the lirst bnul b1itween I 45-poundcrs Tommy "Gn Ahr,ad And Sign Your" Will and .Jim "The 


The Ot>sel\ler/Jelt Hsu Sophomore Zach Fulton congratulated senior Tommy Will after Monday's 135-pound quarterfinal round. 
match was called one minute and one second into the first round. 
•Hobbins plans to.work Pn·his · footwork and defensive strategy to get roady for tonight's con­test. Second-seeded Steve Pfeiffer will meet challenger Ben Dtllon in the ring to try to advance to the finals. 
Pfeit'fer's unanimous victory 
showed a controlled hut aggressive boxer that will be a . serioui:; challeng+.dbr tt1e f'r~sh­man Dillon. who earnod a spot in the semifinals by a split deci• 
sfon victory. 

Tlrn 180-pound division has two seasoned boxers, Josh Thompson and Paul Chen at 
the No. 1 and No. 2 spots. 
rospectively. . 
.Both lop seeds domlnated 
thoir fights and could pr.vide a 
competitive final-round :rnatch­
up. First, however, they must 
get past Willie Kent and Mark 
Criniti in the semifinals. 
Thompson's strQng left jabs and control of the ring in the quarterfinals caused trouble for challenger Tom Cullen and could do the same for Kent. 
Chen promises to be a. diffi· cult challenge for freshman Criniti. Chen's unanimous deci~ sion followed a skilled and con­trolled attack by the senior boxer. 
While the top seeds in tonights semifinal round have experience and' technique in their. respective corners, strong challengers could present them '\\'ith tough matches during tonight's contests. 
Unloader" Shacklett. 
ShacklP.tt unloaded a flurry of jabs to outlast Anton Kemps in the quarterfinals, a bout that Will watched very closely. 
"The fight after mine was tough:" Will said. "Both of those guys looked very strong, and I'll have to be at my best ltonightJ." 
Will breezed through the first round with a unanimous deci­sion, but a return trip to the finals will require a strong effort by the senior captain. 
In the other 145-pound bout. law student Phil "The Drill" Castrogiovanni squares off against Mike "The Roof, The Hoof, The Hoof is on Fire" Maguire. Castrogiovanni man• aged a split decision victory over Daniel Gonzalez, drilling the freshman with a powerful upper­cut and drawing two standing­eight counts during the fight. Maguire had an oasier time in his quarturlinal bolll, r,arning a unanimous ducision over Marc "The Grand Inquisitor" Tubay. 
''I'd like to cnme nut morn uggrnssivo," said Maguire. "It was tough bncause [Tubay) was a lefty and so everything was opposite. 
"Each fight I want to get bettnr ancl betl<•r. I jusl wa·nt to stay within my game plan and throw straight p11nclrns." 
A trip to the finals holds an added inccrnlivu for Maguire, who rould possibly l'acP his friend and follow ol1icer Will. 
"(l's an addod motivalion for me to bn Tommy's la.st fight,'· Maguirn said. "I want to be lhn one in thn ring l'or his last fight. So it's not a matter of looking ahead for me, just an added motivation, not a hindrance." 
McMahon vs. Aramini Seerveld vs. Garry Will vs. Shacklett Mellin vs. Lynn 
D. Murphy defeats Rubino by forfeit 
LaDuke vs. Saracino 
K. Murphy vs. Nowak Biolchini vs. Kippels Kerrigan vs. Peterson Hobbins vs. Sandifur Thompson vs. W. Kent Gaffney vs. Johnson Butz vs. Shenk Ryan vs. Leuchtefeld 
Saliuno vs. Romero 
125 
135 145 150 
155 160 
163 
165 170 175 180 185 190 195 
HW 
...,. .. ·--··· 
Overbeck vs. Holcomb Gallegos vs: Madden Castrogiovanni vs. Maguire Buccellato vs. Hernandez Locher vs. Cronley Kirley vs. Santucci McMurtrie vs. Alexander Polcari vs. Penn Hammes vs·. Dehmer Dillon vs. Pfeiffer Criniti vs. Chen Clay VS, Romachek 
Velten vs. June 
A. Kent vs. Rodriguez Yatorola vs. Riederer 

,. 
-
page 22 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, February 24, 1999 
_Rec:............ 

­
:111!!:a,:;>­
. Student Award 

RecSports "Champion Student Award" recipients are selected by the Office of Recreational Sports. Honorees are chosen for their involvement in RecSports, including excellence in sportsmanship, leadership and participation. 
.... 
-


Steffen Doyle is a senior from Lynchburg, Virginia. During his time at Notre Dame, Steffen has participated in a variety of RecSports activities. He has been a member of several interhall sports including baseball, basketball, lacrosse and soccer. He is also a member of the Cycling Club. Besides participating in sports, Doyle is faithful to a regular workout program which includes both cardio and strength components. Stress management, staying fit or mountain bike racing and personal satisfaction all play a part in his desire to stay physically active. After graduating in May, Steffen will begin working with Montgomery Securities in Dallas, Texas. 
Recipients receive <£~merchandise from the 
~ 
VARSITY SHOP
...., 
"Specializing in Authentic Notre Dame Sportswear" 
(Joyce Cent'er) 
altll 

VARSITY SHOP
~e-­
/<_ee,.....__,_,_, ~ z, 


'11'1' 
"Specializing in Authent_ic 
www.nd.edu/--recsport · Notre Dame Sportswear" 
Upcoming Events & Dead · 

Yo a & Tai Chi Yoga -3/15-4/26 6:45pm-8:00pm -$20 Yoga -3/18-4?29 -S:30pm-6:45pm -$20 Tai Chi-3/17-4/28 -5:30-6:25 or 6:35-7:30 -$22 Sign-ups begin@ 7:30am on 3/2 at RecSports 
Intramural Deadlines -2/25/99 Campus Floor Hockey IH Soccer (W) IH 1211 Softball (M&W) G/F/S Softball Campus Soccer Co-Rec Indoor Soccer 


Look for this award to appear in the Observer every_ other W~dnesday. Students selected receive (£~ 
l"T"L.,..~l~....., a•& :&'1,
merchandise courtesy of \..&.,-~""'""I-'"'.. and the virzi°r with two locations in the Joyce Center. The virzior is open Monday-Saturday 9:00am to 5:00pm and Sunday 12:00pm to 4:00pm. (Phone: 631-8560). 
) 

~---=---------------------_,,,..,..,___...,.______~....-------.......----,,,,...,,--------..------,...__, 
Wednesday, Fehruary 24, 1999 SLURRED SPEECI I 
'f"o APPEASE THE s·n.1DENT.S AN l) (ACVt:rY ON THIS f/llCLVSION MATTER 
Wli ,,V,l)Si .MAK£ 
J

A P£CJS/O/v SOM€ HOh/.•. 
FOXTROT 
.., ANO, of CoURSE, ALL IN ... Tl-IE HEA"TER IN..:ll-lE 
01<, I'VE Go1 THE FILTER 
MY COTE LITTLE 

FISH1ES IN. CLAM SHELL IN ... THE WATER IN ... 
Rocks IN...Tl-lE 8088UN6 
Iii 
I'O \-\£.LP YOU I 
.
.
eiUT IT M.lC:.H'T. SET 
" 
C 
" 
>
.,
A, DANGEROUS 
~ 
a
?RECEOENT. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 24 Hospital cry 46 Quake locale 25 Enzyme ending 48 Tempestuous 
1 Some fathers: 
spirit?Abbr. 
26 ---Israeli 

relations 49 Cage/Shue 4 Winter Palace 27 Dangerous date picture of 1995 ruler for Caesar s2 Clapboards, e.g. 8 Big name in 28 Ripening agent 53 Locale hotels 29Vamoosed 54 !nits. in long 31 E.M.T.'s 
distance

14 Private eye. for 
short 33 With 34-Across, Aphrodite
15 $75/night, e.g. 
1996 action film 56--about 16 Microscopic sequel (approximately) creature 34 See 33-Across 57 New: Prefix 17 Like: Suffix 37 "Rubber Soul," 58 Least cooked "Revolver" and 
59 Politician

18 Picnic raiders 
others Gingrich 19 Maritime hazard 
38 Only so far 60 "Don't give up!"

inW.W.11 
40 Apple or pear 20 Richard 43 Disavow Benjamin's film 44 "Leave-­
DOWN debut, 1969 Beaver" 1 Marks of shame 23 Stuboorn beasts 45 Article in Aries 2 Backup help 3 Academic types 4 Shore dinner entree
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
5 Off-trie-wall 

p A R T &Onewhoshows 
ATA ----BU ~ 
s E 7Saved 
s aCarries 
E 9 Permeate 
10Weaver's apparatus 11 It may land m 
hot water 12 Hardly brainy 13 Sadat's 
predecessor 

collapse A R -'--1--+-t--E R E 22 Surg. areas S E E .=,..;-'-'-.__ A S A S 27 Little devils 

50 I 
tNCWS/ON FEL1.-0W5 
STtLL, I CAN'T HELP i, FEELING AS ll-loU~H J I'VE FoRGOTTEN 
l SoME1'\·UNG. 
u 
e 

The Observer• TODAY page 23 
DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
; 
... ~ 
~ 
C 
:, O> 
O> 
~ 
" 

EADS we von, OWN 
.TH£ SOARD OF 
BILL AMEND 
L•l<E, WHAT 1!; PETER, CAN 
G/1.LloNS oF W"TER Yoo HELP 
WE1GHS,PERliAPS~ ME CARRYl\ilS 
I UPSTAIRS?' 
! NE.E.D 
HAVE 
A, NEW 
'{OU 
CELEBRmES BORN ON THIS 
DAY, Paul Jones, Helen Shaver, Paula 
Zahn, Jenny O'Hara, Barry Bostwick, 
Abe Vigoda, Edward James Olmos 

Happy Birthday: Take your time and think things through. If you jump too quickly this year, you'll have regrets. Don't rely on others to do things for you. You are the master of your own life, so take care of your own interests first. Thls is not the time to take unnecessary risk9: so don't let anyone lead you astray. Think for yourself and look out for your best Interests. Your numbers, 1, 8, 12, 28, 34, 42 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 

Romantic encounters will unfold if you go out with mends. You'll be in a talkative mood. It will be easy to write letters. It will be a good day to get your point across. 0000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You will have no problem with financial dealings. It is best to try to finalize deals and sign on the dotted line. You can make career moves and can work well with your colleagues. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Investments may not be in your best interests. There appears to be some­one around you wno may try to take you for granted. Look into J0irting a club that offers individual ~ports. 
000 ­
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Make those changes to your home. A move, or possibly just changing things around, will lift your spirits. Expect people to drop by to see you at home or at work. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Make plans to get together with friends or at least phone them to catch up on all the latest happenings in their lives. Talk about commitments with the one you love. This could lead -.to 
matrimony. 0000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Dis­ruptions may cause you to stop what you are working on. Make arrange­ments quickly and carry on with your Job. Problems with co-workers lndi• cate that you should not rely on oth­
ers. 00 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You will have no problem influencing others when it comes to your beliefs and opinions. Put some effort into self. improvement. You will have a ten­dency to be overindulgent. 00000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21), You will have to be well-organized today. Learn to delegate less important duties to those around you. You have a knack for taking on too much and 

. then getting frazzled trying to do ii all. 000. . SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 211:, You can make new mends and meet an individual who could possibly become an important partner in the future. Doing things with children is favorable today 000 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): · You will find that those you least expect will rally around to aid you in achieving your goals. Don't forget to show your gratitude if you wish them to offer assistance again. 000 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Pregnancies are likely if you don't , take precautions. Do things that involve ,:,hysicai activity. Shopping sprees will be a learning experience. Don't buy things you don't really want.00000· PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Some­one you work with cannot be trusted. Don't be so open about your personal life or your feelings about to-workers. O.anging your professional direction is not a bad idea. 00 
Birthday Baby: You are a dreamer and a drifter. You need to stay focused on
PO$!TION. 
TRIEO 
the things that you do best in order to reach the success that you desire. The more you learn, the better you'll do. Your creative ability must be developed 
CROUC.t-\­
, ..,,.,1°•·1-· i,, nrdi'r (11r \·n11 ~n t,"lkr• t1d\'ill1t<1v;r nf iL 
ING? 
¦ OF INTEREST 

Kellogg Institute for International Studies ­Author, journalist, and former dancer, Alma Guillermoprieto, will present The Samba l.,ectun~ on tonight at 7 p.m. in the Auditorium of' the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
Wanted: 
Strip cartoonists and one--panel cartoonists. 
... 
-·

Puzzle by Jeremy Thomas Paine 

28 Large wardrobe 39 "Anna Karenina" 46 The end author
30 Navigator's 47 Dread need 
40 Astronomical 
48 Turn aside ob1ect31 Supercomputer so Morning glory,
41 Iroquoian tribe 
name e.g.

42 Field
32 Bad sound tor a balloonist 

43 Grooved on 51 Put away 
34 Actress Joan of "Rebecca" 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
35 Plaintiff or are available by touch-tone phone: 

defendant 

1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 36Aardvark Annual subscriptions are available for the 38 Runs to mom best of Sunday crosswords from the last about 
50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Submit three to five examples of your work to Michelle Krupa at The Observer in the basement of SDH. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
The Observer 

and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 Published Monday through Friday, The Observer 
D EncJosed is $85 for one academic year
is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's D Enclosed is $45 for one semesterCommunity. 
.Join the more than 13,000 readers who have 
Name ---------------------------­
found The Observer an indispensible link to the 
Address --------------------------­
City ________ State ____Zip______
two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

.... 
.._ ______,.._________.,.__,:---.•=-----w---.---""•-•-.-._-':<' ---'"'-~_., _,_......,,..-~..,,.,._-------_..,., ,__ .., 
11'C._., 


¦ The men· s basket ­
¦ Columnist John 
¦ Muhammad Ali's 

ball team needs a win 
Coppolella examines 
daughter looks to fol­

over St. John's tonight 
the recent Yankee 
low in her father's 

for a chance at the 
trade for Roger 
footsteps. 

postseason. · 
Clemens.
PORTS 
p.19 p.14 
page 24 
Wednesday, February 24, 1999 


.. 
t 
McMillen sets new career three-point record 
By BRIAN REINTHALER 
Managing Editor 
Senior Shnila McMillen scorrd 18 points and broke the all-tiint> Notre Dame record for most rarf'er thret>-point fit>ld goals as the 10th-ranked Irish finished their regular season with an impressive 89-(12 drub­bing of Miami al lhe Joyce Center Tue8day night. 
Mc'\1illen, \,vho entt. red tlrn game tied with Bnth ri.Jorgan at 2~ 1 t.hrne-pointrrs, waster! no time hitting thf1 record-clinch­ing shot. CenLBr Huth Riley tapped the opening jump ball to senior Diana Braendly, who round McMillfrn advancing toward the right wing. 
"That's just a play we run all tlw time," McMillen said. "I lhund rnysLilf widll op('n." 
f\lcMHlen took tlw pass from Braendlv. dribbled twice, pulled tip just outside the three-point arc and hit nothing but net, bringing the home crnwd of more than 3,000 fans to its feet just six seconds into the contest.~ 
"It was nice to get it out of' the way," McMillen said. "I think it would have been hard­er to do if l had missed mv first four shots." • 
Despite Mr.Millen's heroic senior night. junior Niolo Ivoy's court vision and three-point range made the differcnr.o for :\lotrc Dame. lvev shredded the Miami defense·, recording a game-high 19 points and snven assists, and hitting five of her six three-point attempts. 
Early in the st. cond half, Ivey stolfl the ball out of mid-air and took. it the length of the floor before delivering a nifty. no-look pass to Danielle Greon, who laid the ball in and was fouled. 
The play extended what had bePn an 45-27 Notre Dam<' lead al halrtime to a 22-point cushion two minutes into the second period. Miami's Jen Jordan drained a pair of free throws on the ensuing posses­sion, but that was as close as 
see IRISH/ page 18 


The Observer/Kevin Oalum Center Julie Henderson and the Irish were rarely stopped by the Hurricanes as they cruised to an 89-62 vic­tory in their last l;lorne game of the season Tuesday night. 


¦ 125-POIJ!'\\D TO 145-Pom,m 
125-pound division set to begin action 
By ALLISON KRILLA 
Associate Sports Editor 
The stakes are rising. 

You can see it on their faces and hear it in their voices; the boxers in tonight's semifinal rounds can almost taste a trip to Friday's main event. 
But they're not there yet. . 
In the 125-pound division, Jason ~Vegas" McMahon faces Marc "There Can Be Only One" Aramini, and Kevin "K.O." Overbeck takes on Rick "I.ii' Pun" Holcomb following an off­night for the division that con­tains only four fighters. 
It may have been an easy route into the second round for the 125-pounders, but that means the pressure is on for them to prove themselves in the !'ing. 
"I've been anticipating getting into the ring," Holcomb said. "I feel that I'm physically stronger than my opponent. and watch­ing the fight's on Monday just made me feel more confident. 
"!Bengal Routs! is really the culmination of my work last semester and the six weeks of 
doing." Aramini is also ready to enter the ring. 
"I'm a little nervous, but I think I'm just about reaay," said Aramini, who faces the top­seeded McMahon during his first time in tlrn ring. "[Watching] the first l'ight on Monday really scarnd me, but after that I was able to calm down. I just hopn our fight isn't as violent as some or them were." 
[n the 1'35-pound division, David "The Prancing Pixie" Seerveld, who earned a unani­mous decision victory on Monday, appears primed to return to the finals. But Seerveld will have to contend with the division's other unani­mous decision winner. Martin "The Iceman" Garry. 
'"I sparred David last week and he boat me pretty good, so I'll have to make some adjust­m1mts to my style," said Garry. The junior faces a distinct height disadvantage in tho semi­final. but is confidmll of his abil­ity. 
'Tm excitr,d to be in the semi­
The Observer/Jett Hsu 
training," the junior said. "I'm finals," Garry said, "although I 
i 
Joe Kippels defeated Kurt Kurple in a referee-stopped contest in the 165-pound division of th~ quarterfi­
ready to get out there and prove
nals Monday night. For more Bengal Bouts coverage see page 21. 

to myself what I'm capable•of see BOUTS/ pagt:: 21 
at St. John's, Bas~ball 
I 
Men's and Women's 
Tonight, 8 p.m, vs. Missouri 
t SPORTS 
Swimming
Friday, 4 p.m. 
ATA 
at Big East Championships,

,,., • St
vs. Iowa, 
Thursday -Saturday

l.'-_) Today, 3 p.m. vs. Northern Michigan, 
• 
. 
~ 
Friday, 7 p.m . 
• --GLANCE 



