
Irish Insider 
Right or Wrong? 
Sophomore tailback Tony Fisher's 
law professor Charles Rice examines a recent 

Friday
pass-catching ability adds a new dimension to 
lawsuit involving partial birth abortions in 
the Irish attack. 
today's Viewpoint section. 
SEPTEMBER 10, 
see Insert 
page 11 
1999 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXIII NO. 14 


Service learning plays signficant role at SMC 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
S,111\1 MJry'> F.ditm 
Wlwn ChrissiP Hennnr walked into thn Logan Cm1tnr, 0110 of her first lasks was lo ;issisL a mrntally disabled adult with pr.rsonal hygiPno tasks, such as going lo tlw bathroom. 
It wasn't llw typiral homework assignmcml.. 
"I had to f'a('.P what I never had hl'l'ort'," said lfonrwr. a student in profossor B1ith :-.Jnumann 's Christian Elhic:s class last snmes­ler. "I was suddrmly in this whole oxperi(inc1! of' putting myself in sonworrn nhw's shmis." 
N,,umann's class is just ono of s1iv(in1l at Saint Mary's participat­ing in a campus-widn initiative callr.d community-based learning: incorporating tnxthook lnarning with practical applications through service. 
Tlw initiativn. part of tlm objec­livPs president Marilou lildred introduc(!d two years ago al the start o!' her prnsid1mcy. attnrnpts to c(:nlraliw Lhn community-based learning t\l'fort, said SistfH' Linda Kors. dirnctor of Spes Unica VoluntBer Hesource Cenl!?r. 
"We've had a lot of individuals participate in community-based lnarning in their classes, but there has never been an effort to cen• tralizc it bc!'orc," Kors said. 
Centralizing service 
The pffort to centralize commu­nity-based learning is led by a steering committee comprised of Kors and professors Jan Pilarsky, Jeff Breese and Neumann, who !'or the past year has worked from a grant called "Embedding Service Lr.arning in Teacher Education." 
A survoy of professors this sum­mer showed not only an interest for community-based learning in a larger capacity, but a demand for it. 
"What we arc finding out is that a lot of professors have used it and want it [in their classes,]" Kors said. 
Nr.umann, who has been using the program in her class for the past five years, said she has noticed a difference in the quality of learning with the addition of the program. 
"The connections that are made through community based learn-
see SERVICE/page 4 
HTTP://OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

GETTING READY FOR GAME DAY 

Web business joins business board 
By ERIN PIROUTEK 
News Writer 
Donrn Dnsigns, a student-run Web dt:sign business, was approvncl last week as the newest nwmlwr of' tlrn Studcmt Business Board (SBBL 
The hoard, which falls under tlw Financial Management Board of the Student Union, includes Irish Gardens. i\dworks and ND Video, Mnmbership guarantees oflic(: space and h1:lps legitimize thr. group with potontial clients. 
Dnnrn Designs began in the fa.II of 1997 as a proji•ct of' the Notre !Jami' Council for [n!.crnational Businnss l)ev11lopnwnt (NDCIHIJ) and rcceiwd Univnrsity approval in January 1C)<J8. With inr.reased demand for its s1irvices, lww,wer, thr. previous arrangement twtwiitm Domo Designs and the NDCIBD proved limiting. 
"i\s we grew and started to gel morn projc('tS, WC krn,w we need­(!d to r.xpand," said Kevin Camplrnll. co-manager or Dome Dnsigns. Ttw NDCitm and Dome ll(isigns mutually agreed the Web design company would bo more productive as a member of the SBB. 
"FMsibly, morn projects will open up because more people are comfortable with where we're at," Campbell said. "The Student the University Committee on Business Board watches our Cultural Diversity and the books, and that makes people Laboratory for Social Research. more comfortable." "They've been great," said 
Felicia LeClere, consultant for the 
Laboratory for Social Hesearch.
Marketing strategy 
"Real prompt, real nice guys,
The biggest advantage of SBB 
very efficient." 
membership is visible, centrally­
LeClere said the laboratory
located office space on the second 
chose Domefloor of the 

Designs for two

I.a Fortune 
reasons.

Student Center. '!ls we grew and started 
"First, I like to

Campbell said. to get more projects, we 
support student

The NDCIBD 
knew we needed to groups," said
could not pro­
LeClere.

vide Dome expand." 
"Second it wasDesigns with much less

oflicfl spaco. 
Kevin Campbell expensive thanBryan Wetta, 
co-manager, Dome Designs any off-campus
co-manager of 
Dome Designs, said his group t1f'fcrs advantages for student, faculty and staff groups that nn!'d Web page designs and updates. These advantages includA flexible hours and competitive pricos. 
"Ultimately we really feel like we'rn filling a niche on campus," Wctia said. "We're partially sub­sidized bv tho Universitv. We're professional, but at ·student prices." 
The group has options for all budgets, including free services for worthy causes such as Bengal Bouts, its first project. Other clients include the Class of 1998, group." 
In addition to providing a necessary service to the campus, Campbell said Dome Designs expAricnce proves valu­able beyond Notre Dame. 
"I don· t necessarily expect to get involved in Web design, but it's been unbelievable experience in terms of management," he said, "It's good to learn the steps you have to go through to start a business ... hiring people, doing payroll. That's expcrienc,, you don't get in the classroom." 
Dome Designs will soon hire additional students with Web design skills Campbell said. 
Gift funds seminar on Catholic social teaching programs 
By ERIN LaRUFFA 
News Writer 
Notre Dame will be able to host a three-day semi­nar to discuss, propose and develop programs for the study of Catholic social teaching. thanks to a recently acquired $102,966 grant from The Wabash Center for Teaching and Learning in Theology and Religion. 
The gift will fund the summr.r 2000 session, dubbed "Teaching Catholic Social Teaching: A Programmatic Hesponse." Todd Whitmore, an associate theology professor and the director of the Program in Catholic Social Tradition, applied for the grant 
Whitmore and will direct the project. 
"I've received this grant to help facilitate the development of programs of Catholic sor.ial teaching at a dozen Catholic r.ollegr.s and uni­versities in the United States,'' Whitmore said. 
The group will reconvene on campus in summer 2001 to evaluate the programs implemented at the respective schools. At that time, the group will write a report !'or various academic administrators and Catholic bishops. 
Whitmore does not yet know what schools will par­ticipate, but he hopes to get a mixture of small col-
see GRANT/page 4 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Friday, September 10, 1999 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Out of the 
Woodwork 
If the current pri>sidential hopefuls leave you wanting someone a bit "alternative," you may soon have a choice. 
All indications show that actor Warren Beatty is "cautiously" eyeing a potential run for the 
U.S. Presidency, which will soon be vacated by his Dustin Ferrell moral equivalent. Bill Cl.inton. Beatty, known for 
Assistant
changing women more 
Viewpoint
often than his socks, is 
Editor

apparently frustrated with the current list of candi­dates and would run as a Democrat, citing potential challengers Gore and Bradley as not "liberal enough." Sure, and I.hat Pat Buchanan character is a real pinko. 
My objection to this latest possible candidate has nothing to do with the man's political views, nor does it concern his corny movies. What bothers me most is the fact that yet another Hollywood star has decided that we not only · care with what he has to say, but that he has the right to tell us. 
Not that I have always objected to all actors­turned-politicians. Ronald Reagan provided many conservatives with a role model and gave many liberals someone to blame for poverty, AIDS and that stain you can't quite remove from the carpet. Unfortunately, I can't decide whetlrnr the good things accomplislrnd in the 1980s are worth having Grandpa from "The Munsters" run for Senator in New York against Hillary Clinton and Rudy Guiliani. 
I also would like to point out that l am a staunch supporter of the First Amendment, even when it protects pornography. hate speech and Barbara Streisand. However, television and movie stars receive enough air time without reserving the right to inform me that they're concerned about the environment. Yeah, I'm concerned too, but not because some special interest group pays me to act concerned in cheesy television commercials. 
Therefore, I respectfully request that our star­studded friends out in Los Angeles remember they are being paid for their looks and acting ability. It sounds shallow, but it serves a pur­pose: when most of these people speak. they reveal themselves as uninformed meatheads. Great, Woody Harrelson wants us to know he's on a crusade to legalize pot. At least potential potheads might think twice before they turn into Woody Harrelson, but watching him act already teaches us that lesson. 
Hopefully, the recent political hopefuls from sports and entertainment won't start a trend that will leave us voting for the "Friends" cast in a few years, much less any one from the FOX network. They provide plenty of entertainment for people who usually don't pay attention to politics, thereby bringing new faces to the polls. If you think that's a positive result, consider whether you really want WWF fans voting. 
Of course these candidacies are interesting to watch, but the end result probably won't be any better than the usual collection of clowns run­ning in national elections, which is exactly why we pay attention to these people when they decide to run. Every year, we run to the polls with high hopes and excitement, only to be let down. It's sort of like having Madeleine Albright jump out of a cake at your bachelor party. 
Warren would be well advised to stay out of politics and go back to Hollywood with his phi­landering, drugged up, dishonest colleagues. We have enough of those in Washington as it is. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Scene  
Erica Thesing  Mike Vanegas  
Matthew Smith  Graphics  
Kyle Andrews  Joe Mueller  
Sports  Production  
Mike Connolly  Noah Amscadter  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Dustin Ferrell  Kevin Dalum  
Joe Stark  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday a:ccpt durini; exam and vai;ation period!.. The Observer is a member of chc ~ociau:d Pres~. All rtproduccion ,ighrs .arc reserved.. 
THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
North Carolina backpedals 
DURHAM, N.C. 
In a letter delivered to interim Chancellor William McCoy's office Tuesday, labor advocates at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill lambasted the school's administration for perceived backpedaling on commitments made last year following a four-day sit-in. University officials, however, insisted that the school remains firmly committed to improving the working conditions in factories where UNC apparel is made. McCoy issued a brief response Wednesday that acknowledged receipt of the students' letter. He wrote that he forwarded the letter to the Licensing Labor Code Advisory Committee, so the group could "provide me with its advice on the issues." Todd Pugatch, a UNC-CH junior, said he appreciated the McCoy's prompt response, but said he still thinks UNC-CH may have backed off on demanding disclosure of factory addresses. "If McCoy had earlier demonstrated a firm commitment to a disclosure deadline ... this would not be an issue now," he said. adding that he looks for­ward to working with the chancellor. In late April, McCoy agreed to require full disclosure. 

Friday, September 12, 1975 Student Body president Ed Byrne seems sure that by lhe end of the year, a proposal for coed housing will be passed by Notre Dame. Also, Byrne predicts that Indiana will adopt an 18-year-old drinking age in the next year. 'Tm oplimistic," said Byrne. "We'll have a coed dorm for the incoming freshman in 1976." 
OUTSIDE THE DOME 
BERKELEY, Calif. 
University of California at Berkeley students held a rally in front of California Hall Tuesday, demanding that Chancellor Robert Berdahl drop charges against eight students who were involved in last semester's eth­nic studies demonstrations. 
Members of the Third World Liberation front submitted a letter to Berdahl requesting the university and UC police drop charges against students who participated in the takeover of various campus buildings in April. The students said they want a response within the next two weeks. 
Members of the Third World Liberation Front demanded that all Office of Student Conduct charges, letters of admonishment and crimi­nal charges be dropped. Additionally, the group called for the reinstate-
September 8, 1976 Renovation plans for the Huddle arc delayed, once again. because of insufficient funds. Plans for a "21 and over" bar in the Huddle are also changed because the room probably will be used as an all-ages restaurant instead. The entire renovation project will cost $300,000, of which 
· the University only has $60,000. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 



Berkeley students protest criminal charges 
LOCAL WEATHER NATIONAL WEATHER 
~---------------------·---· 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

Friday! c.D 
68 Saturday -t)-,1a;· Sunday ~' 71 
..rn ,a,·a· 
........ .........

Mond$y ~.. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 

~ @""b . t='.2le:J . rn[S] <)~•
High Low Showers Rain T~storm• Flurrh,• Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy_ Cloudy

Tuesday 
\rl'.~·. 
Via Assoc1afad Prtt.Ss
i ~...,r..~-,.
,., 

Aurora 70 47 Dallas 92 64 Oklahoma City 88 61 Atlanta 76 49 Los Angeles 79 60 Orchard Park 70 58 
~~~a~g (f rn e2. 
Boston 77 69 Medina 67 49 San Francisco 71 54sh;~:; T-st~~ Rain ~,~;;~~ ~~· /;-Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Buffalo 70 57 New Orleans 90 67 Seattle 69 so Via Associated Prass GraphicsNst Chicago 69 49 New York 78 71 Wasington DC 83 68 
In total, 51 students were arrested and charged by the Office ofStudent Conduct. Although 43 students were given letters ofadmonish­ment, eight students were punished more sel1erely. 
ment of Sara Kaplan, a current grad­uate student who was dismissed from her job at the Recreational Sports Facility. 
In total, 51 students were arrested and charged by the Office of Student Conduct. Although 43 students were given letters of admonishment. 8 stu­dents were punished more severely, said Stacey Holguin, a manager in the Office of Student Activities and Services. 
Some of the students are facing 
criminal charges that range from resisting arrest to assaulting, spitting and throwing bottles at officers, said UC police Capt. Bill Cooper. 
Of the eight students who are still facing additional charges, two of them had prior arrests, Cooper said. 
The others were arrested on more serious charges because their actions went beyond simple civil disobedi­ence. 
As a matter of due process, stu­dents must go through official proce­dures to determine whether the stu­dent conduct charges have validity. said UC Berkeley spokesperson Marie Felde. 
The issues involving student con­duct charges are obstruction and dis­ruption of the teaching process, and physical and verbal abuse that threatened health and safety of oth­ers, Felde said. 
Kentucky State yearbook censored 
LEXINGTON, Ky. 
A federal appeals court in Cincinnati Wednesday upheld the censorship and confiscation of Kentucky State University's 1993-94 yearbook, saying the year­book was not a public forum for student expression. The decision has drawn criticism from media educators, media students, the Student Press Law Center and the plaintiffs, former KSU student editors Charles Kincaid and Capri Coffer and their media supervisor at the time, Laura Cullen. "We've had 30 years of significant college [First Amendment] protection, and they ignored the cases that set precedents," said Mike Hiestand, staff attorney for the Student Press Law Center. The majority on the three-judge panel for the case of Kincaid vs. · Gibson cited an earlier decision, Hazelwood School District vs. Kuhlmeier, to justify their decision. "The court in Hazelwood noted ... that if the school did not intentionally create a public forum, then the publication remains a nonpublic forum, and school officials may impose any reasonable, non-viewpoint based restriction on student speech exhibited therein," Judge Alan Norris wrote. 

C 1999 AccuWealhnr, Inc. 
Friday, Sepcember I 0, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Kroc donation funds student conference 
. Annual event will lntornational l'oac:n socks to instruct U.S. and international
focus on public 
rPprnsnntativns to stop vio­issues, policies le nc0 and war throuih tho 
promotion of 1.rnace. 
llnrlNgrnduatt' classPs l'ocus 
By LIZ ZANONI 
011 thn f'u11damcntals of' a New, W.-ir,·r 
p11acdul and just world and inrludl' surh topics as human A $:i00.000 gifl l'rom rights. µros1wro11s economies Uni111•rsitv lH•rwfactor Joan and , he g-lobal P.cosysllrn1. In Kroc will. \·ndow an annual addition, Lho Kroc Instituto sl11dl'11I 1·011fort•11cP on µuhlic ol'l'nrs an intornational gradu­iS'iUl''i and polil'y making. al!\ program culminating in a 
Tlw conl'cn·1H·1•. to lw orga­Mastor's dogrnn in peaco stud­lliZPd and nm by s1ud1H1ls, will ins. hi' a('rompa­Tim insti­lliPd hy a tute wa.s
'"/'he conference will 
Sf'riPS 01' 11s tab! ished
i1~/luence policy dehales
hrinl'ing in 1985. jlillJHrS Oil and encourage peace and Kroc's inter­puhli1· issuPs est in ce11s­
justice 1,alue commitment 
illll11ldf'cl Lo ing tho 
more seriously. " 
shapP publil' nuclear dr,IJatP. gov­arms race P l"ll Hl I'll la I and encour-
Robert Johnasen 
d p (' i s i () II s 
graduate director, Kroc Institute aging peace
and th t\ and rf'spcct dl'Prtivnrwss l'or human of forpign policy discussion in lifo coincided with Universitv otlwr univl•rsitfo::; and l'.ollnges, president nmeritus Fathe·r said Hohorl Johansnn, gradu­Thoodorn Hcsburgh's desire tu atP din~ctor or tlll' KrO(' makt' iss1rns such as tlwsB pre­lnstilutP sn n t in student discussion. 
It will givP stud<rnls rnal­Their joint efforts havp attract­world t\Xpt\ri1H1cn in 1•xpressi11g ml students from all over the idPctS in a publir an1rn1. world to study peacemaking 
"Tlw confor<HH'H will influ-while trying to achinve cross­1'111'<' policy clnbates and cultural recognition. Pnl·ouragf' pParP and justice Tho annual student confer­v,tllH\ rommitmnnL morP s11ri­ence allow students the chance n11sly," .Joha11sn11 said. to rnllahoratn ideas and push 
By involving stuclt'nts dirnel­llrnm into the policy making ly i11 th<• policy making arnna. The conference expects procc>ss. tlw co11f'l•rP11cP orga-to spark additional interest in 11 izn rs hopl' lo send rt•com­policy discussion among other nwndations from sludPnls to Notrt' Damn students. ulU­govnrnnwnt offiriafs. Johansim matoly contributing to what Pxpl1ti11nd. Johansen callod "an cxpres­
Tlw Kror lnstitutn !'or sion of' many student's voices." 


Freshman Notre Dame Students 
A meeting will be held at the football stadium 
1 
(Gate E) athletic training room for the student ath­letic trainer program. It interested report on Monday September 13th at 4:00 p.m. 
I 
I 
L__ 
r 



Grant endows new professorship 
study of perplexing q UllS· gratified by tho Luce 
0 hserver Staff Report 
lions," Johansen said. "For Foundation's contirh~nu\ in us 
instance, 'What makfis one and gratnful for its generous 
l\'otre Dame received a Hindu as compassionate and support," Malloy said. grant from the Hemry Luce nonviolent as Gandhi and B,isides performing rngular Foundation to establish a new another Hindu so intolerant academic dulins, tlin Luce professorship in the Kroc and hostile toward other Profossor will bngin a pro­Institute for International groups that he assassinntos gram or visiting fellows f'rom P e a c e Gandhi for beiug too generous various rnligious traditions to Studies 
toward Muslims?' ,rngag1~ in peac11 studies at that focus­'"What enablns one Notre Dame, .Johansen said. es.. on the Christian to appreciate that The llnnry Luce "lived rnli­Jesus and early Christians Foundation. foundNI in I <J3(i gion." refused to kill ollrnrs, even by co-founder and editor in 
T h e when directly threatened by chiAf' of Timn fncorporatPcl, grant of them, whi111 anotlrnr Christian sponsors programs which up Lo $1 justifies the use of weapons of omphasizn highor oducation. mi 11 i u n indiscriminate mass destruc­thenlogy. Asia, /\mr.rican /\rt c r e a l n s Johansen tion'?"' Johansen added. and wonrnn in scir.ncn and the new University president Father 1mgi1rnnring.lfonrv H. Edward Malloy is thankful Tlw Foundation ·s Lucn Luce· Professorship in f'or the foundation's financial Professorship program aims Religion, Conflict and slipµort of the Notre Dame's to promote crnativn and int<w­Pcacebuilding. This profes­academic endeavors and rl isci p Ii nary thinking and sorship will examine tho man­expresses his gratitude !'or lear11ing. The program is ner in which religious scrip­the g1rncrosity of the llenry opnn to all disci~)linns and tures. traditions and practices Luce Foundation in the past. departments at leading pri­
shape social. political and "This generous grant is a vate. J\nrnrican collogcs and mi Iit.ary behavior. Hobert strong endorsemf'nt of schol­universities with 1\nrollnrnnts .Johansen, acting director of arly aspirations which are above l ,000 students and the Kroc Institute, said indispensable to our universi­competitive libnral arts pro­"This grant will enable new ty's mission. We are both grams. 

Z O O 0 
Pullia1n Journalis1n Fellowships 
Graduating college seniors are invited to apply for the 27th annual Pulliam Journalism Fellowships. We will grant 10-week summer internships to 20 journalism or liberal arts majors in the August 1999-June 2000 graduating classes. 
Previous internship or part-time experience at a newspaper is desired, or other demonstration of writing and reporting ability. Those who go through the Fellowships often find new professional opportunities opening up at other newspapers during and after the program. Winners will receive a $5,500 stipend and will work at either The Indianapolis Star or The Arizona Repuhlic. Opportunities for online training are available, along with reporting experience at our major metropolitan daily newspapers. 
Early-admissions application postmark deadline is Nov. 15, 1999. By Dec. 15, 1999, up to five early-admissions winners will be notified. All other entries must be postmarked by March 1, 2000, and will be consid­ered with remaining ear]y-admissions applicants. Successful applicants will be notified on or before April 1, 2000, and will be asked to r~spond immediately with a letter of intent, at which time one-third of the cash grant will be mailed to the Fellow. 
To request an application packet, visit our Web site, e-mail us or write: 
{-· Russell B. Pulliam 
•~~ Pulliam Fellowships Director Indianapolis Newspapers 
Web site: www.stamews.com/pjf P.O. Box 145 E-mail: pulliam@stamews.com 
Indianapolis, IN 46206-0145 

Come watch the garne on
"wr , •. Interested in writing for The one ofpur 12+ screens,.· 
Observer's news department? stalt;ipar'#"nll night! Come to our weekly news meetings 
L.._. ____ 2046 South Bend ~~enue (277 ·. 
Sundays at 5 p.m. in the basement · of South Dining Hall. 
Got news? Call us 1-5323. 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 



Service 
continued from page 1 
ing are crucial,'' Neumann said. "What we examine in the class is the question, 'What does it mean to live Lhe Christian life?' 
"When a student can observe someone who is less fortunate than they are, there is a larger impact," she explained. 
For Renner, the interaction sbe had with her charges was critical. She said they fostered learning she wouldn't have found elsewhere, she said. 
"At first. il was upsetling to see people in that condition." Renner said. "It is uncomfort­able. But ii makes you realize that it is your responsibility to take care of these people." 
Smiling faces 
But it was the reception she got from her charges that made Renner want to return, even 
after the initial shock ofher first visit. 
"None of them can talk." Renner explained, "But you could just tell they were so happy to see you when you walked in the building. Their eyes would just get so bright when I'd come in. It was such an experience to feel love for someone else, and shift the common focus from yourself." 
Neumann, who has worked with community agencies St. Margaret's House, Logan Center, AIDS Ministries of Northern Indiana. Center for 
! • the Homeless, Holy Cross Care 
I Services, Dismas House and Reins of Life, said the connec­tions her students make in class impact the agencies as well. "One of the goals of a lot of these agencies is awareness and education," Neumann said. "There is a benefit that goes both ways." Many of the agencies have developed invaluable connec­tions with Saint Mary's through the process, Kors said. "Many of these agencies have said that they have focused on Saint Mary's as their primary 
source for volunteers," she said. "Since we focus on two. three or five agencies, we are able to target places where stu­dents can be helpful." 
However, while the experi­ence has been primarily benefi­cial for the students involved, there is debate about whether community-based learning should be required. 


Required learning 
Neumann said scheduling and transportation have been two obstacles in working with the program. 
"If it were to be required, the logistics of placing 430 incom­ing students with agencies would be a nightmare." Neumann said. "In addition, lots of students schedules are so hectic that I don't feel it is my place Lo require them to complete service. And many students do not have trans­portation." 
Many of the reasons a stu­dent may have a poor experi­ence could be that they rushed to get their hours in or were exposed to awkward situations. Kors said. 
Yet that does not make the experience invaluable, she emphasized. 
"I've had students write me five years later and say that even though the experience upset them then, that when they look back, it has been the most important learning expe­rience in their college careers," she said. 
Renner, who currently partic­ipates in community service unrelated to the program, agrees it has been one of her most influential experiences. 
"l can confidently say that this semester, I began under­standing people differently," Renner wrote in her final paper for Neumann. "Every person I met, or friend I spoke to, I reminded myself that we are all fighting battles of our own. 
"Everyone else's pain and frustrations are every bit as real as our own, and often times, far worse. By recogniz­ing this truth and offering our support, we open our hearts and magnify our understanding of gratitude." 


Itallan/SJcllian ~ <-.....Trattoria

,/'Ue
Dining  -4-.  .'----._ 
'(  1-._\ ('----@S S. Michigan St.  
Fresh prepared  rs,  ( ,--South Bend, IN 46601  
Pizza,-Beverages  r------7U  219-233-1000  

Downtown South Bend's Finest Italian Dining 

RotFS SPOt!TS RECRUTION CENID DEPARTMENT OF ATHLETICS lJNrJE1'51Ti Of Nom DAME 
Rolfs Sports Recreation Center Drop-In Recreation Schedule 
In-Line Hockey  Sur.days  8:30-10:30  
Floor Hockey  Mondays  8:30-l0:30  
Indoor Soccer  Tuesdays  8:30-10:30  
Volleyball  Wednesdays  7:00-lO:00  
Lacrosse  Thursdays  8:30-10:30  
Badminton  Fridays  7:00-10:00  
Badminton  Saturdays  9:00-11 :00  

Come by Yourself, or Bring a Friend! 
All times are PM. Schedule is in effect only when classes are in session. 

Grant 
continued from page 1 
leges and large universi­ties. 
Whitmore said he hopes the grant facilitates intel­lectual study and the practice of Catholic social teaching. In a prepared statement, Cniversity president Father Edward Malloy echoed those senti­ments. 
"We want to make Catholic social teaching integral to undergraduate studies at all Catholic institutions of higher learning, as it should be here at Notre Dame, and to do so in a consistent and formal way.," Malloy said. "Beyond its immedi­ate benefit to the partici­pant schools, this project will create models for other religiously affiliated colleges and universities." 
The Wabash Center is located at Wabash College in Crawfordsville, Ind. Its Web site explains that the center "seeks to strength­en and enhance education in North American theo­logical schools. colleges and universities." 
The grant compliments Notre Dame's concentra­tion in Catholie Social Tradition created last year. The undergraduate program is designed to teach students about Catholic social traditions in areas such as theology, philosophy, economics and history. 
Whitmore plans to serve as ongoing consultant for the CST concentration. 
Friday, September 10, l 999 

POLICE BLOTTER 

Thelt 
~~otre Dame Security/Police investigated numerous thefts from lockers in the basement locker room of the Holfs Sports and Recreation Center &t 12:30 p.m. Tuesday. 
Tr,espassing 
Security apprehended a suspicious person at University Village. He was identified, issued a no-trespass letter and escorted tJff camµus at 3:38 a.m. Wednesday. 
Security apprehended an individual signing students up for credit cards in the main quad at 12:24 p.m. Wednesday. 
Security apprehended an individual signing students up for credit cards on the east side of Hiley Hall of Art at 1:18 
p.m. Wednesday. 
Introducing ... 
~s 








_____________c)~o 
~•~ M· '1:•~ ~ ~ '" Cross. ISs ­~~?#,.. ~~0\J -A-­10~'03:J/,,~ --q) ...,, ., ' in Coachella, California January 3-10,2000 Nuestra Senora de Soledad Parish Coachella, California • experience small Christian communities • dynamic Latino church leadership • special programs involving youth and the poor • daily group prayer and reflection • live in Parish family homes Informational Meeting Wednesday, Sept. 15, 7:30-8:00pm or Thursday, Sept. 16, 7:30pm-8:00pm Coffee House-Center for Social Concerns *some knowledge of Spanish or experience of Latino culture required I.IICENTE'R' FOil (?MPUSSOCIAL Sponsored by Ca1npus Ministry and CONCERNS MINISTRY The Center for Social Concerns  

·~· 

•.

orld 
I 

Fri<lay, September I0, I 999 COMPILED FHOM THE OBSEIWEll WIRE SEHVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Baghdad police arrest car thieves 

BAWIDAD. Iraq 
Baghdad policn havn stoppnd car lhinvm; so mur!lc-rous a SfH'cial squad was formed Lo hunt lhPm rlown. cornPring them in a shootout t.hal h·l'l onn gang nwmbnr dead. the wt•tikly al-Zawra 11,•ws1HL1H'r rcport1:d Thursday. W1•d1wsday's arrnsls t:ulmi11al1!d a \'\'f't•k-long i11wstigalio11 hy an nlit11 polirn unit 1r;u·ki11g tl11• arl.ivitiPs of' tlH• four-mun gang I ha! had tPrrnrizPti l'ar dnarnrships in duw11­tow11 Ba){hdad, l'olict> Chinf (;mwral llanrnnd Sali'a told tho papPr. Polku idrn1tilit>d tlm sus­pncls as Ali \hbas. tlw gang ln,1rlPr who is also known as l!amho. Ahlms's brollwr, Firas, known as "tlw Monslnr." was killnd in tlw shootoul. Sah'a said. Anolhnr Abbas brotlwr, Il,11111•Pfl. was shot and injurPd lust Wfiek in a l'ailPd attPrnp1 by polic1• to appn\lwnd llw gro11p, 
Phones increase auto accidents in Jordan 

AMMAN 
<:hailing and driving don't mix. say lordanian lraf'lk officials who link a rise in al'cicl<ints to the inr.rnasing usn or crdlular phorws. Tlw dirnclor of tlw Stalo Traffic lnstitut1•. l.im1L C:olor11d .Jamil Ali. said Thursday lhosP who use tlwir phones whilo driving am h:ss alert. Ill' citod a survey that showPd road acddPnts incroasPd f'our-to five­fold among driv1!rs using rnobiln phones. The Trul'lk I>q>artment saicl <, 12 1wople dind and 
17 .177 ollwrs wcro injtrrPcl in 43,:H3 road ac:ciclonts in tlw kingdom last ymLr. The doath toll was <, pcrccnl higlwr than that of I997 and tlw numb.-r of acr.idnnts was I I 1wrccnt higlwr. A Public Snnirity study showed that .Jordan los1!s I(, persons in road accidnnls for <'VPry 10,000 vl'hidt>s, com parnd to orni per­son iII advant'.Pd nations. 
Court sentences Israeli militiamen 

BEIHL'T. 1.nbanon 
i\ military court has scntPnccd 16 former prn-lsradi militianwn lo prison terms ranging l'rorn six months to orw vcar for r.ollaboration, judicial ollicials said Th;irsday. The snntnncns delivnrPd latn Wm!rwsday raised to I:n the 11urnlwr or fornrnr South I.Pbanon Army militi­111111•11 convictml since Lim lsra11li-backficl forcn withdrnw from tlin soutlwrn Lebanese town of fozzint• in June. In all. snntencns have) ranged l'rom two ym1rs for some senior SLA orticials down lo six months. In the rulings Wednesday night. llm court acquiltc>d one defendant and droppNI collaboration charges against eight others who worn f'ound to have joined the lsrnnli-backml militia undPr durnss or dun to financial rrnml. tho oflicials said. sp(iaking on rustornary rnndition or anonymity. 
Market \#ttch: 9/9 

Dow 
AMEX: 804.03

JONES 
+ 11.64 Up: 

Nasda11:

11079.40 1485 
2852.02 
43.2!!



Q 
Ell 
NYSE: 
621.99 
Down: 1477
+.12 
S&P500: 
1347.M 
Composite
+J.51 
Volume:

43.06 930,781,010 
VOlUME lEADERS 

tlCKl'H Ut:'1:IN l'ijl( t ll'lln'.l.(ORI' INT< -tl,tt ... I.Nil~ 11.1, MH HO",,OF[ C OHi'\ ,.,,,.·-r •I.W. +l.811111 ll,4,0fi u.-.l.l, (OMPllTf.N Ot~LI. -tl,64 .. 1.l~!fi(I .fH.Mk ,111n111v~i: 1N1 AMl'IJ +llJ.".f t(!,qf~O IU.ll 1'1-1)1'1.[\(JH IN(· l'Srf tlO. .,'I +l,6'1~() 17.JI .1i·1-Al"l.l-:SINC '9PL\ ·0,6-4 -0. Jll5 Ul.9-J <,I.OIIAI. ('ROSMN(i 1:81.X ·1.621~ lJ.94
_,,._,~ 

Ul\jlF'f' Coltl' ur-.1•·1 tlH.011 +J.IJIJ(I l~.IIM ,\l\'Jt:N IIOMr PMon, AIII' .~.Jl -l.2!1:Z~ ,UJ.06 , 1v·o.,v,TU1'i ("S(U --i.u~ +l.tlft1!1i 6'9.!j4 
INDONESIA 

Associated Press 
DILi 
The United Nations evac­uated its embattled com­pound in East Timor Friday, lnaving but a skeleton crew to continue working to bring the terri­tory to l'ull nationhood. Anti-imlcpcndencc militias had trapped the workers for several days. 
On Thursday, the Homan Catholic Church accused pro-Indonesian militiamen of targeting nuns and priests in predominantly Catholic East Timor, where voters have over­whelmingly chosen inde­pendence from mostly Muslim Indonesia. 
"The world is talking and .we're dying," nun Esmeralda de Araujo was 
VENEZUELA 
quotfld as saying by the Vatican's newspaper L'Osservatore Romano. "It's hell here and I'd like to cry out to everybody lo save us. But no one seems to want to hear." 
Among those l'leeing. Friday was U.N. mission head Ian Martin, wearing a light blue nak jacket and riding on the back of one. or the trucks heading for the airport. Some gunfire was heard in the distance. 
Keeping the U.N. com­pound functioning is con­sidered key to the world body's plans to give East Tirnor nation status after its people voted over­whelmingly on Aug. 30 for independence from Indonesia, which invaded in 197 5. The vote trig­gered a backlash of loot­

ing, burning and killing by anti-independence mili­tias. The Indonesian army had pledged to ensure security. 
More than 200,000 East Timorese have hmm forced to leave their homeland, 
U.N. offir.ials said. More than 50,000 wero shipped lo militia-run camps in West Tim or, where refugees told of massacres and ars:m attacks by anti­independence militias either backed or led by Indonesian army units. 
International outrage grew Thursday, with the Pentagon suspending offi­cial relations with the Indonesian military, and foreign ministers at an Asia-Pacific summit demanding that Indonesian leaders stop 
the rampaging militias. While some countries advor.atud an international peacekeeping force, key nalions shied away from committing troops absent an invitation from the Indonnsian government. NATO said it wouldn't tak1! part in such a force. 
In Washington, Gen. Henry Shelton. r.hairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. told the Senate Armed Services Committee on Thursday that the crisis presents no threat to U.S. national internsts that would justify sending American troops. Shortly after, President Clinton suspended relations with Indonesia's military and insisted its government allow in international peacekeepers. 

Protesters rally against reforms 
Associated Press 
CARACAS 
Sevf\ral thousand people marched through down­town Carar.as nu Thursday lo demand that V1mezuela's powerful new Constitutional Assembly not take over local govcrn­m!'nts as part of its r.orrup­tion-purging rnforms. 
Shouting "Liberty! Liberty!." the protesters said any move by the assembly to assume con­trol of local and state gov­ernments would be illegal, and accused President Hugo Chavez of leading the South American countrv into authoritarian rule. · 
"The government of Chavez wants a dictator­ship in our country," said Orlando Ovalles, 42, a security worker in the Caracas city government. Tho march was led by Caracas Mayor Antonio LedP.zma of the opposition party Democratic Action. 
Chavez, who as a lieu­tenant colonel led a failed 1992 coup attempt, has corm1 under fire from crit· ics who say he is trampling Venezuela's constitution. The Constitutional Assnmbly, a body created in July to write a new con­stitution, has virtually shut down Congress and this week started a purge of the notoriously corrupt judicial system. 

The assembly also is debating whether to declare an "executive emergency," which would give it the power to over­see local governments and even to remove governors and mayors. 
Chavez, who was elected president in a landslide victory last December, says he is provoking criticism because he is attacking the interosts-of a corrupt oli­garchy blamed for squan· dering the world's largest oil reserves outside the Middle East. 
Assembly leaders told foreign correspondents on Thursday that they are launching a campaign to counter what they said is the intnrnational media's sensationalistic depiction of Chavez as a dictator. 
Four assembly members including former presiden­tial candidate Claudio Fermin, one of' only six Chavez opponents elcr.ted to Urn 131-pnrson assem­bly, will travel to Washington and New York next week to meet with political and business lead­ers. 
"Thore is no dictatorship hero," F<1rmin told Tlrn Associat1\d Press, though hn blamed "political infan­tilism" by both anti-and pro-Chavez factions for producing "verbal shootouts." 

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, September 10, 1999 
University aluIDnus, benefactor dies 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame alumnus, par­ent and benefactor John McAndrews died Sept. 2. 
McAndrews graduated from Notre Dame in 1944 and received a master of science degree from the University three years later. lie then joined E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Company as a chemical engineer at the Marshall Research Laboratory in Philadelphia. 
He worked in a variety. of supervisory positions within the company until 1966, when he became director of market­ing for Remington Arms Company of Bridgeport, Conn., a DuPont subsidiary. He was elected president of Remington Arms in 1979 and held that position untill 986. 
During his presidency at Hemington, he simultaneously served DuPont as group vice president for finishes and fab­ricated products from 1982­
86. He was appointed group vice president for automotive products in 1986 and held that po$ition until his retire­ment in 1989. 
McAndrews and his brother, George, established the Patrick William and Ruth Louise McAndrews Memorial Engineering Scholarship at Notre Dame in 1977 in honor of their parents and estab­lished a law fellowship, also in honor of their parents, in 1986. 
McAndrews and his wife, Margaret, established Notre Dame's John and Margaret McAndrews Chair in math­ematics in 1993. 
A member of the Sorin Society's Founder's Circle, McAndrews became a mem­ber of the advisory council for the University's College of Science in 1979 and served as its chairman during the 1983­84 academic vear. He retired from the council last May. 
McAndrews is survived by his wife and five children. of whom two, Mary Ellen and Lawrence, graduated from Notre Dame in 1975 and 1977, respectively. 
Gezelter wins New Faculty award 
. Professor joins 12 other winners in annual program 
Special to The Observer 
Daniel Gezelter, assistant professor of chemistry and biochemistry at Notre Dame, has received a $40,000 New Faculty Award from the Camille and Henry Dreyfus Foundation. 
· One of only 13 award recip­ients selected from a field of 73 nominees in the annual program this year, Gezelter uses computer simulations to study the diffusion of small molecules in such environ­ments as liquids, glassy mate­rials and cell membranes. 
The· aim of his research is to learn more about the mole­cular mechanism of general anesthesia and to predict the physical properties of new materif1.ls. 
Gezelter's work includes the development of computer programs for simulating com­plex chemical systems 011 largi, ni,tworks of inexpensive computers. 
The Camille and Henry Drevfus Foundation, Inc., was established in 1946 by chemist, inventor and busi­nessman Camille Dreyfus as a memorial to his brother Henry. He directed that the foundation "advance the sci-
Please recycle The Observer I 
ence of chemistry. chemical engineering and related sci­ences." 
The foundation's New Faculty Awards program was established in 1979 to pro­vide funding for new faculty members at the start of their research and teaching careers. 

Experience dining in the true&·'.­spirit of Notre Dame. • · S 
631-2020 

Friday, September I 0, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
NYC continues battle against encephalitis outbreak 
By DEEPTI HAJELA 
Associated Press \Vrircr 
NEW YOHK 

In Now York City, where rnurdnr is down and tlw quali­ty of lifo is up, llwrP's sucldnn­ly a cJp;ul ly 
Jlt'W llll!ll• 
acn: mos­
quiloPs. 
Thrnn 
1woplt> ·havn di(•.d in tl11· last f'tiw wneks in an outbrnak of mosquito­bor111\ n11c1\phalitis, an inflammation of' tlrn brain. Ni1w othnr pmiple lrnv11 \men inl'cclt'.d, and 60 otlrnr possible cases am being i11v1istigatnd. 
llealth officials in lrnli­coptcrs and on foot bngan spraying pnslicide around Urn city last wnnknnd to prevent tlrn sprnad of the disease. 
Mayor Hudolph Giuliani said Thursday that forested or swampy areas in the entire The disease originates in city will be sprayed over the birds, which pass it along to noxt several days and sporadi­feeding mosquitos. Once cally for the next several encephalitis reaches humans weeks, until the frost sets in. via a mosquito bite, it cannot and again in the spring. be transferred. 


Tim spraying is aimed at Although there have been stagnant pools ol' water whero relatively l'ew confirmed Lim bugs brood. cases, Nasci expressed con­
"Tlw more dead mosquitoes. c1~rn that "a vPry largp, popu­thn lrnttnr," Giuliani said. lation" is at risk among New 
Boger Nasci,  York  City's  
an  ontomolo­ 7.:1  million  
gist with  lhe  "The more dead  people.  
I' P d 11 r Cnnturs  a I for  mosquitos, the better."  Children, the elderly a.id  
D  i  s  n  a  s  e  anyone with  
Control  and  Rudy Giuliani  immunr, sys­ 
Pruvention, said it is  mayor, New York  tem problems can die from  
"nxcnndingly  the disease.  

rare" for the disPase lo hit a The CDC sent a team in ear­Northeastr,rn city, and blamed lier this week to help New tlrn outbreak on "bad luck." York City combat the virus. 
It was New York's first con­and a city hot line has been firmed outbreak of the dis­flooded with more than 13,000 ease, a strain known as St. calls since word of the illness Louis encephalitis. emerged. 
One of the confirmed cases But people relaxing in was in the borough of Flushing Meadow Park in Brooklyn. All of the rest have Queens seemed unconcerned been in Queens. Thursday afternoon, even 
If our delicious, flame-broiled double cheeseburger were any bigger, we'd need to buy more ad space. 
'•,. 
.,, ; .· 
' ·.· 
-~;~~~t.a~~~;.~xi'.~.· 
Notl1111g l'll::,tts uur h1g,_1uicy Douhk~ C:heL'schurgcr. It's got the !:_'.!'(\tt t:t~tL· of tl,ul;L, hn nl1 ng and h,1:-75% mt HL' bed· than tvk I )t i11,ild'/ ( ~hcc.schurgcr 1f'11ce anc! part,c1pcilro11111,.y v,iry) 
1he Hu::kHe L.a.Forturie StlJ(_1e·,1 C1:>nte• 
It just tastes better. 
. ,,..IC" ~,lrllj { '. ."! • ,r 
Facts about St. Louis encephalitis 
. Prlrp_arily transmitted by mo$quitos . . 

. 
Between five and 15 percent of cases are fatal. . Elderly people are at the high• est risk for disease and death. 

. 
Previous epidemics have occurred only in the Midwest and Southeast. 


though th11 park was one of the first areas targeted as a possible mosquito breeding ground. 
"If I was meant to die by a mosquito, I would have died already," said sunbather Anthony Ferro, 35. 
Jim Guerin, 55, was catch­ing some sun and enjoying a barbecue with his wife. Neither was wearing any bug spray. 
"There's not that many good days left in the summer," 

$4.00 Students/Children/Seniors $6.50 Adult Stereo Surrounu Sound in all Theatres 
A merlcan Pie R 
12:55 3:10 5:25 7:40 10:05 
An Ideal Husband PG-13 
12:50 3:10 5:25 7:40 10:05 
Bowflnger · PG-13 
12:55 3:15 5:35 7:55" 10:10" • excepl 
Brokedown Palace PG-13 Sat. 
8:00 10:20 Chill Factor R 2:05 4:40 7:15 9:55 
Deep Blue Sea R 
2:00 4:30 7:05 9:40 In Too Deep R 1 :05 3:30 5:50 8:05 10:25 Mickey Blue Eyes PG-13 
1:00 4:00 7:00 9:30 
Stir Wars Epa 1 PG 
1:30 4:15 7:00 9:50 
Stigmata R 
1:10 3:35 7:05 9:35 55 2:05 4:45 7:45 10:15 5S Stir of Echoes R 5S 12:45 3:00 5:15 7:35 10:10 
The 13th Warrior R 
12:50 3:05 5:30 7:50 10:15 
The Haunting PG-13 
1 :00 4:00 7:10 10:00 
The Iron Giant PG 
1 :45 3:45 5:45 
Special Sneak Preview of 
"For the Love of the Game" on Sat. 

• • ' :.. >I,,. TOOAIS TIMES Oil(! !CuR OAY lll'/ANCI nm1 lit!! HNCICAi' A((!l>lilE . NO P~Sm • NO l\l#(tj,IV(RS 
. 
Twelve infections nave been confirmed in this outbreak. There were only nine cases confirmed in New York state between 1964 and 1997. 

. 
The strain was first Identified in St. Louis in 1933. 

. 
St. Louis encephalitis ls treatable. 


Source:The Center tor Disease Control 
Guerin said. "H's a concern of 
ours, but lthe illness] is not a 
priority." 
St. Louis encephalitis. 
named for the city where the 
first cases were identified in 
1 ()33, is ol'ten treatable. 
Doctors at Flushing Hospital 
reported the outbreak on Aug. 
24 after identifying four 
patients with symptoms. The 
symptoms, which generally 
appear five to 15 days after a 
bite, include fever and 
headaches. 
r---•-------,
SAVE $1.00 ON ANY LARGE FRUIT SMOOTHIE! 

"A HEALTHY MEAL IN ITSELF" 
cpal 
CAMPUS SHOPPES 1837 SO. BEND AVE. (JUST EAST OF ND) 
L--------.----
COUPON EXPIRES 10/31/99 .J Got news? Call 1-5323 

¼uuHlp-llop dance club 18 and ovi/irlpns alternative for fun and entertainment. .kJood,non-alcohollc beverages, frozen drinks, 
· pool, darts and other games. 
-You can party and have fun without booze Try it before you knock it. 
Open every wednesday • Saturday 6 pm until 
the best in Hip-Hop, Retro, House, R&B, Line music ·· Old School, Disco and Rock and Roll 
I 

"elatest and hippest dance moves from some of the l)J's in the midwest at the Friday and Saturday ·· night weekly dance parties 
'YerJnesday's and Thursday,s. Show your : talent and bring a friend. tor bands, DJ's, comedians, da.ncerS and'..,, , , ~~~aiJters .. 233-8505 for into . 
'' · · .·· . r student o 

CAMPUS--WIDE READING 
OF 

JOHN PAUL II'S 
ON THE COMING OF THE THIRD MILLENNIUM 
(Tertio Millennia Adveniente) in Faculty Led Residence Hall Small Discussion Groups 
Beginning the week of Sept,~mber 20 
Schedule to be posted in the Observer 
"The crisis of civilization ... highly developed from the standpoint of technology but interiorly impoverished by its tendency to forget God ... must be countered by the civilization of love" (..,.TMA sec. 52) 
Come Help Imagine the Third Millennium as the C:ivilization of Love! 
Students: Information will be available in Residence Halls 
sponsored by the Department of Theology and the College of Arts and Letters 
r-------------------------------------~-,-----~:------~------~-----------­
rriday, September I0, 1999 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
CIA reports on Iranian and N. Korean missiles 
Fulbright Essay Writing Worl~shop: One-to-One Tutorial Assistance 
Sponsored by: 
The Notre Dame Writing Center 
This workshop is for people who are applying for a Fulbright Scholarship and would like additional assistance writing their application essays. 
In this workshop, you will have a chance to work with a writing center tutor who will read your essay, discuss it with you, and work with you to improve it. The tutoring session will provide close, one to one writing instruction devoted to your essay. This is not a class but a working session for writers who wish to sharpen their essays before turning them in for the Fulbright competition. 
Where: 232 DeBartolo 

When: Monday, 6-8 p.m., September 13 
For more information about this and future writing center work­shops, contact John Duffy, Writing Center Director, at 631-7265 or at Duffy.27@nd.edu. 
Associated Pres• 

WASHINGTON 
Over the next 15 years, North Korea and Iran are like­ly to develop missiles poten­tially capable of killing millions of Americans, the CIA said Thursday. 
In an intelligence report with ma_jor implications for the Pentagon's efforts to develop defenses against ballistic mis­siles. the CIA said Iraq posed an additional -though some­what more distant -threat. It said it was questionable whether Iraq could test a mis­sile with enough range to reach the United States before 2015, although the likelihood depends heavily on how much foreign assistance Iraq gets. 
The report characterized the prospect of' North Korea acquiring a long-range missile by 2015 as "most likely," Iran's prospect was judged to be "probable" and Iraq was labeled a "possible" threat. 
These emerging missile forces "potnntially can kill tens of thousands, or even millions, of Americans," depending on their accuracy and whether they are armed with nuclear. chemical or biological war­heads, it said. 
The United States has no means of shooting down long­range ballistic missiles, although the Pentagon is spending billions of dollars to develop anti-missile missiles to shield the Un,ited States 
against a hmitml attack. 
Hussia alrnady has uhout 
1,000 long-range missiles with 
about 4,'500 nudnar warlrnads. 
China has about 20 missiles 
capable of reaching tho United 
States. 
The CIA report said short­
range ballistic missiles, such 
as Iran's Shahab-3 and North 
Korna's No Dong, pose un 
"immcdillle, serious and grow­
ing throat to U.S. forces, inl!ir­
ests and allies" in the Middle 
East and Asia. Those missiles 
do not have the range to rnach 
U.S. soil. 
The report also said the countrins developing ballistic missi(P,s also arc probably working on "countermea­sures," or ways of' enabling their missilos to overcome U.S. defenses. 
Hussia and China, which already havo dnvcloped numerous countormeasuros, probably are willing to sell these technologies, it said. 
Thn rnport is a summarv ol' a classified National Intelligence Estimate, the first the CIA lrns dono on ballistic missile threats since 1995. In an October l 998 updatn of its assessment. the CIA told Congress that tlrn United States was facing a growing thrnat from the sprnad of bal­listic missiles. 
The report rnleased Thursday portrayed the threat from North Korea, Iran and Iraq as sonwwhat loss inmwdi­ate than did-the bipartisan Humsfold Commission. 

r-.,c:;,c:,sc:;, 7~/~ze. £:-­.GJ•--1.4 ,~1ec5J· Notre Dame Student Council on International Business Development First Division Meetings (in Lafortune) Monday Operations Management 5:30-6: 15 303 Boardroom Marketing 6:39-7: 15 Dooley Room Finance 7:30-8: 15 Dooley Room Business Services 8:30-9:30 Dooley Room Tuesday Accounting 5:00-5:45 Dooley Room Internships 6:00-6:45 Dooley Room Citizens Democracy Corps7 :00-7 :45 Dooley Room· The World is Waiting...Get Involved! Get tnore information from our web page http://www.nd.edu/~ndcibd  

VIEWPOINT 
O
THE page 10 BSERVER Friday, September 10, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Norr< Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Michelle Krupa 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  David Rogero  
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Perelle  

NLWS EIJIT0R: Tim Logan VIE\X'POINT EDITOR: Collern Grnghrn SPORTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler 
SCENE EDITOR: Michad Vanegas SAJNT MARY'S EDITOR: Norem Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin Oalum 
ADVERTISING MANAGtR: Bryan Lurz 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Bret Huelat SYSTl:.MS ADMINISTRATOR: Michad Revers WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Erik Kllshro 
CONTROLLER: Timothy Lane GRAPHICS EDITOR: Joe Mueller 
CONTACT Us 
OrFICE MANAGER/GENERAL. INFO..............631-7471 FAX............................................................. 631-6927 A.oVl'RTISING.....................................631-69()()/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHJEF........................................631-4542 MANAGING EoIToR/AsST. ME .................... 631-4541 BUSINESS OFFICE...........................,...........631 ·53 l 3 NEWS..........................................................631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu VIEWP0INT.................................................631-5303 
observer.viewpoinc. l@nd.edu SPORTS.......................................................631-4543 observer.sports. l@nd.edu SCENE........................................................631-4540 observer.scene. 1@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S............................................631-4324 observer.smc. I@nd.edu PHOTO.......................................................631-8767 SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site ar http:l!observer.ndedu for daily updates ofcampus news, sport<, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from ,he Associared Press. 
SURF TO: 
weather for up-to-rhe 
movies/music for 

minute forecasts 
weekly student reviews 

advertise for policies 
online fearures for spe­

and rates ofprint ads 
cial campus coverage 

archives to search for 
about The Observer 

articles published after 
to meet the editors and 

Augusr 1999 
staff 

POLICIES 
The Obse.rver is the independem, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Macy's College. Editorial content is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. Acting as pub­lisher ofThe Observer, the administration ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac prohibirs the adver­tisement ofalcohol and The Observer's acceptance of advertisements &om specified types ofgroups. 
The news is reported as accurarely and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chiet; Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns prese'lj' the views ofrhe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoim space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters i, encouraged. 
Questions regardmg Observer policies ,houtd be direct­ed to Fditor in ChiefMichelk Krupa. 

Life is usually peppered with sports metaphors when explanations need embellishment. Playing on a level play­ing field is an overused term. Yet, suc­cessful careers often hinge on the very intangibles that are characteristic of championship teams whose play prevents its oppo­nents a level field. The secret for suc­cess in both the sports and business arenas is an atten­tion to detail. Consequently. the more precisely focused on detail one is. the more successful one will be in attaining a goal. 
Some sports analysts blame last Saturday's football loss to Michigan on the delay of game penalty called after Notre Dame's final touchdown. A Notre Dame player barely called attention to himself by quickly making a gesture to a television camera. The resulting 15­yard penalty, coupled with a late hit out of bounds penalty. virtually handed half a field's worth of yardage to Michigan and the eventual win over the Irish. 
If only one reason could be attrib­uted to the unsuccessful outcome of that game, it would be the lack of coaching tpe minufe subtleties of team discipline and knowledge of the rules. It was once common practice at Notre Dame for players to perform like a championship caliber team throughout every game. Each player was taught the rules, but more importantly, taught to play so that the rules were second nature to his performance. 
Initially, Rockne's shift and forward pass innovations were not moves that Irish players, nor the football communi­ty at large, would consider second nature. Yet Rockne emphasized and practiced these plays until they became as familiar to his players as walking ur breathing. The Rock won through his emphasis of detail to the point of near perfection. 

No player ever exhibited non-classy behavior on the field. Players on both offense and defense were expected to jump in sync with other players to the snap of the ball. Every player was expected to score points. That was the definition of playing like a champion that day. 
During the heyday of the Pittsburgh Steelers during the 1970s, Notre Dame players mirrored the Steelers success with two national championships. After scoring touchdowns. both teams, play­ers simply dropped the ball or toss1id it to a referee because they had accom­plished what was expected of them ... scoring points. It was incumbent upon the coaching staff to instill a sense of professionalism and accomplishment in the team. to pay attention to every detail and nuance of the game. That attitude was so prevalent in the team philosophy that a player was not excit­ed to the point of overt celebration after accomplishing what he knew he was capable of doing ... and doing quite often. 
A decade ago, when top-ranked Notre Dame faced Miami. one relatively minor coaching detail prevented the Irish from a second consecutive nation­al championship. In the third quarter with momentum in Notre Dame's favor, Miami had the ball and fumbled deep in their own territory. The Irish defensive lineman merely had to fall on the ball within the 20-yard line for a first and ten. Instead. he attempted to pick up the ball and run for a touchdown. He never got a handle on the ball, and Miami recovered for third and 26. The Hurricanes next play covered 27 yards for a first down. They proceeded to eat most of the clock in the third quarter while eventually scoring the touchdown that ultimately defeated Notre Dame. 
Most fans remember Miami's 27­yard third down conversion during that game. Few recall that the rule that year prohibited the advancement of rumbles .. 

The Notre Dame coaching stairs failure to instill such an understanding of the details or the rules pertaining to defen­sive players cost the team the champi­onship that year. 
How many times has Joe Paterno focused on the slightest flaw of an opponent and ultimately won because he noticed the weakness? I attended a game at Three Rivers Stadium in Pittsburgh when Pitt was a formidable favorite over Penn State. Paterno's team won 7-6 because he noticed that the center would wiggle and then stay low after snapping the ball for extra points. A Penn State defensive player practiced hurdling over a bent-over center all week and successfully blocked the extra point during the game. 
Outcome: A Penn State upset win. 
The 1999 Notre Dame football team, if playing a near-perfect game. can beat any team in the country this year. While last week's game proved the Irish potential, last week's end zone antics may prevent the team from matching up against a Florida State or Penn State next New Year's Day. It is a lesson that Notre Dame coaches will most likely not repeat during their tenure under the Golden Dome. It is an event we should remember throughout our lives whenever we search for a sports metaphor to assist us with our careers. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame '73. is currently serving in President Clinton's administration as a Congressional and Public Affairs Director and worked at the U.S. House ofRepresentatives for seventeen years. llis column appears every other Friday, and his Internet address is llottline@aol.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
DILBERT  SCOTT ADAMS  
A. PR05PE.CTI\/E CLIENT WILL BE TOURING OUR f'\ARKETING OEPART­f'\ENT IN ~N HOUR,  WE NE.ED YOU TO SIT IN A. VACANT CUBICLE 50 IT LOOK5 (.)..5 IF WORK IS DONE Tl-IE.RE.  HEY! TH~T ONE 15 ONL'T' PRETENDING TO WORK!  

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Those who do not know how to weep with their whole heart don't know how to laugh either. " 
Golda Meir 

VIEWPOINT 
OTHF Friday, September 10, 1999 BSERVER page 11 
The Law, Prayer and Partial Birth Abortions 
Sonwtimns Lim truth dons romo out in a lawsuit. This month tlw full U.S. 7th Circuit C:ourl of Appmtls will IH•ar argumPnts on Wisl'onsin and Illinois laws forbidding par­tial birth abortion WHAi nxcnpl lo su.v11 llw rnot!wr's !if'<•. 111 l'lannrnl Par1•11thood v. Doylti•.luclgci Hichanl l'osrwr. writing for a 7th Circuit pa111•l that lmld tlw Wisconsin law llll('.( )llStiluti()nal. cl1-s1Til)('d l'BA: "Al'!Pr till' cnrvix (tlw mouth ot' tlw u1.1·rusl. has lm1m dilatPd. lt!lw physician draws tlw ldus olll fi•1•t first. \\'lwn only tlw l'Ptus's !wad n·nrnins in tho 
utPrus. tlw physician 
insnrts a scissors inlo Lim hasn of tlrn fotus's brain. i11s1irls a tulw in the hole made by Llw scissors, and removes tho contnnts or Uw skull hv suction, causing thn skull to col­laps1•. Tlw.physician tlrnn romplnlns the 1•xtrartion of tho now-dnad fotus." 
Tlw !'BA prohibitions would prnvnnL fow, if' any, abortions. Tlw abortionist c.ould nvadP the prohibition against killing a "par­tially cl1•liwn•d child" hy killing tlw baby whiiP lw is Pntirnly in tlw womb. But the abortion industry has rnactml fanatically against tlrn prohibitions. And that is how tlw truth has comp out in l'BA casns. 
In his dissPnl in Doyh•. Judge Daniel Munion notml that thn abortionists daim that tlm !'BA prohibition "would limit a woman's right to abortion" bncausn Mthny routirwly pPrf'orm tlw procr,durns" the PBA law forbids. To support this claim they "graphic-ally d1iscrihnd in dntail how routinn abortions am porf'ornwd." 
"It is diflin1lt to SlW how anyone," con­rludnd .ludg11 Posrrnr, "could supposr, PB/\ morn gnmsome than the altnrnativns that Wisconsin has not attnmpted to prohibit. In a lirsl-trinwster abortion the physician uses surgical instrurmmlo; or a suction pump to rnmoVP thn fetus from thn uterus. {Al sec­ond trim1istnr abortion roulinnly involves thn crushing or tlw fetus's cranium; and !'Vl)n in first-trimester abortion the fetus is somPtimcs rmnovnd pince meal; 'ii' a fetus lmyond 10 weeks of age is recognized, the fragmPnts should bP rnassembled to sec if tlw fetus is nssnntially complete' In third­triml'stnr abortion, tlw doctor may kill the fotus by injecting a chemical into the fetus's lwart or by drilling a hole in the fetus's cra­nium and removing the fotus's spinal fluid through the hole." 
l'osrnir's doscription was supported by PvidencP from abortionists. Dennis C:hristens1m, M.D., said in his dnclaration in Doyle: "In l <J<J7, I performed 2,350 abor­tions in Wisconsin :mo in the sncond trinrnster ... For abortions before fourteen w1inks .. I .. us1• suction curettage [in which I the physician ... dilates the cervix and rmnovns the embryo or fclUs and the other products of concrption, either whole or in parlo.;, throl.lgh the cervix into the vagi­ll,l using a suction tube or syringe. 
In som!\ cases. a part of the fetus may be rmnov11d while another part remains in the utnrus and may bn 'liviug.· For abortions (af'tnrl fourtPnn wnPks ... I use dilation and 1wacuution (l)&E) whnn the fetus is too large to remove by suction curettagn. Onc11 the cnrvix is ... dilatnd, I 1wacuat1-1 the uterus using forceps, curettes and suction. Fwquently the procuduni results in the dis­joining of the fetus. In ... a D&E ... I usually do not know at what point ... the fotus dins; however, at the beginning of the procedure, the fotus is alive in the sense of having liv­ing cells and a h11artbeat. In the intact D&E (abo known as 'dilation and extraction,' 'D&X' or 'intact D&X'l, tho physician dilatos tlrn cervix and then removes the fetus from the uterus through the vaginal canal intact. 

Charles Rice 
or 
Wrong? 

The physician extracts the fetal body feet lirst, until the cervix is obstructed by the aflnrcoming head. which is too large to pass through the cervix. Then the physician cre­ates a small opening at the base of the skull and nvacuatos tho contnnis, allowing the calvarium lskulll to pass through the cervi­cal opening." 
Tho intact D&E, or D&X. is a partial birth abortion. Christensen said that suction and ordinary D&E abortions r,ould also come within the terms of the PBA prohibitions: "In a suction curettagP ... fetal parL-; are 'deliverncl' ... into the vaginal canal ... After a part is evacuated, other parts or the fetus of'ttm remain in tlw uterus; tlrn fotus may still be 'living,' e.g., if there is a heartbeat, thus bringing this procedure within the scopr of' tlw Act ... Sometimes during tho D&E ... a part of the fetus protrudes from, or is pulled through, the cervical before the fetus is fullv removnd. In some of these cases, the fetus may 'living' within the meaning of the Act ... when part of the fetus is within the uterus and part is outside." 
Several abortionists made similar decla­rations in Doyle. As Frnderik F. Broekhuizen. M.D., described a suction curnltage: "At times I must makn multiple passes through the uterus with suction bnf'ore it is empty. Sometimes when part of the fetus is removed with the initial pass, the part remaining in the uterus still has a heartbeat." 
When Dr. Christensen refers to "disjoin­ing of tlrn fotus," he means cutting or tear­ing the arms and legs off an unborn child. The abQrtion industry uses euphemisms to gain acmplance. The unborn child becomes a "fotus" or "the product of conc<!ption." The attack becomes "the termination of · pregnancy" or simply "the procedure." If you favor such legaliznd killing. you are merely "pro-choice." We are supposed to overlook what that choice involves. 
But now. in the PBA cases, the abortion­ists themselves show us that every abortion is, in moral but not in legal terms, the delib­erate killing of an innocent human being. This is true of surgical abortions and also of the early abortions by pills and other means that arn increasingly making surgical abor­tions obsolete. 
The intentional killing of the innocent, by whatever method, should be prohibited in every case without exception. We ought to work toward that end, even though there is no realistic prospect now of eJTectively pro­hibiting any method of abortion at any stage of pregnancy. Abortion pills and other early abortifacients arn making abortion a private matter beyond the effective reach of tho law. What is ultimately needed is a reconversion of the American people to a respect for all human life as the gift of God. 
In any event, it is not enough merely to oppose abortion. It is important to provide alternatives, with needed material as well as spiritual help, to women who contem­plate abortion and to women who have had abortions. In Evangelium Vitae, No. 99, John Paul II offered "a special word to women who have had an abortion ... rDlo not give in to discouragement and do not lose hop1.i ... You will come to understand that nothing is definitively lost and you will also be able to ask forgiveness from your child, who is now living in the Lord ... [Y]ou can be among the most eloquent defenders of everyone's right tu lire." 
In thn PBA cases, the abortionisls have opened a window through which we can see what the culture of death is all about. Pray for abortionists, and for women who havu had an abortion or who are rnnsider­ing it. And pray for our country. 
Prof /lice is on the Law Schuolfaculty. /!is column appears every othr>r Friday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Gift from alumnus shows true Notre Dame spirit 
This past weekend was very disappointing for a lot of Irish fans. It was a well-fought game. However, there has already bmm plenty or comm1rntary about that game. I want to point out a much gniatcr aspect of' this Univnrsitv. 
My ro<immate and I made the trip to Michigan without tickots. Wn worn standing outside of Michigan Stadium and looking to gel two tickets, whnn a man in his 50s approached us and pulled out a couple. l le asked us where we went to school and what ynar we were. Alfor our answers of NoLrn Dame and juniors in Carroll llall, he handnd us the ticknts. Ile told us to have fun and to do the same for someone one day whnn wn wPrn his agn. 
It was the best feeling in the world to walk into that stadium and sit in tlrn ninth row while using those free tickets. We really want to thank that man. We hope that he is reading this. We promise to givn another Dorm!r Urn same foeling one day that he gave us. llo showed us everything that is right with this university. Ile showed us the true Notre Dame spirit. Notrn Dame is full of good people like this. We just wish that the rest of tlw world was more like this. 
We once again want to thank that man if he is out there reading this. Thank you for your great gr,nerosity! 
Patrick Broderick Brandon Zick 
Juniors Carroll Hall September 9, 1999 


Quality of life important in abortion debate 
Whether abortion helps or hurts any one person's life situation is a ques­tion I can no longer answer. Yes, it is true that the instant an abortion is performed one life is lost while another is wounded. And a good Catholic education will instill in a person that abortion is wrong. However, life is an expert at homogenizing the black and white to make gray. 
The horror stories that Mario Suarez described can go both ways. One example would be the life of a 19-year old woman who finds her way in and out of therapy and mental hospitals because she was rapnd at the age of 11 by her father and bore his child. By 19, she has her hands full with three children from three different fathers. Obviously, the children are not the cause of her problems, but they do not help her situation. /\ feeling of being alone engulfs her to the point of such extreme anxiety that she r,an­not face her children in a stable emotional state. And what happens to hnr children? Raised in an environment with only one parent, who is herself still a child, do they have a chance for healthy, enjoyable lives? 
Or what about a young man of 20 who is on the end of a decaying rela­tionship with his girlfriend of two years? Both have only one year of college left, but the summer before their senior year is marked by an unexpected pregnancy. Should they try and mend their relationship for this chjlcl a~d in the interim give up a better future for themselves and later potenttal cl11l­clren'! And what happens to this child who will be raised by parents who feel trapped and resentful because of their attempt to take responsibility for their actions? How does one measure the value of this child's life? Is an aborted child better than a child that will be raised in much less than ideal circumstances? Or should life always be placed first, even over poor condi­tions? 
These are just two of several examples that hit close to home. And in other lives like theirs, people will suggest adoption or other alternatives us the ideal choice to abortion. But, in reality, these altnrnativns do not always work as planned, for whatever reason. And the question that seems so hard to answer is the one concerning the quality of life. In this ever-growing world. should life overcome simply because it is life? Or should the poten­tial quality of life be taken into account when conte_m~18:ting aborti'.m'? This is the view of the realist, and it will bu labeled pess1m1st1c, but rnalrty pro­duces a lot of children that do not, and sadly cannot, grow out of their bad habits. So maybe they are bettf1r off being nothing. 
Michael Campbell 
Junior Sorin Collrgc September 9, 1999 


-

----. ----------------...,....,-----~------------------------------------------., 
T E 0 N 
page 12 Friday, September 10, 1999

Emmy ~alls Raymon 
By MIKE VANEGAS 
Scene Editor 
As the new television season is born .into the lives of Americans across the nation, little by little, the specter of the 1998-99 season diminishes into their collective 
memory. 

But. wait. Tho final adieu to the unspectacular but respectable sources of visual splendor of the past year is at last in the present. This Sunday, the 1999 Emmy Awards will reward the best of the crop, from the zani­est of the zany, to the sharpest of the sharp, to the profoundest of the profound. Above all, the Emmy telecast should invite a new era of television-watchers to the tube. For this is the last Emmy telecast of the millenni­um, and the strength of the top shows, coupled with the demise of several long­running series, surely makes this past year a dividing marker between '90s televi­sion and television of the new millen­
nium. Throughout the '90s, there 
has been a steady increase in the number 0 f nom­ina­

so 
tions the Academy of Television Arts and Sciences has 
doled out to cable stations and shows. Throughout the 
last several years, HBO's "The Larry Sanders Show" 
with Gary Shandling has been the most high-profile 
representative in the major categories. 
With the series' last season being rewarded in the 
1998 Emmy Awards, IJBO seemed destined for exile in 
the Made for Television Movie category. 
That was until two new HBO series debuted last sea­
son. "Sex and the City," the adult comedy starring 
Sarah Jessica Parker, has garnered two nominations 
this year. Though not a huge number. they come in two 
of the major categories: Outstanding Actress in a come­
dy for Parker and Outstanding Comedy Series. 
HBO's other show, the mafia drama "The Sopranos," 
has hit the Emmys bigger than any other drama in 
recent Emmy history. With an astounding 16 nomina­
tions, "The Sopranos" leads both network and cable 
shows in number of nominations. The show also has 
won nominations in every major category for dramas, 
except Outstanding Supporting Actor. 
Including its special programming and movies, HBO 
itself won 7 4 nominations, only 8 shy of NBC's 82. 
Other than "The Sopranos," the two shows that look 
to make the biggest impact come Sunday belong to tele­
vision's most prolific writer David Kelly. With 13 nods 
apiece, "The Practice" and "Ally McBeal" look to contin­
ue Kelly's dominance at the Emmys. Remember, Kelly's 
"Picket Fences" won several major awards throughout 
its early 1990s run, including two Outstanding Dramatic 
Series statuettes, and "The Practice" surprised critics 
everywhere when it won that same award last year. 
Here's a look at the races in Emmy's biggest cate­
gories: 

Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Comedy 
This category is perhaps the tightest of the major 
awards, as it includes Kristen Johnson of "Third Rock 
from the Sun," Lisa Kudrow of "Friends," Lucy Liu of 
"Ally McBeal," Wendie Malick of "Just Shoot Me" and 
Doris Roberts of "Everybody Loves Raymond." 
Johnson certainly contributes her share of over-the­
top acting that makes "Third Rock" worth watching. 
She previously has won in this category, which puts her 
in a precarious situation this year. 
Kudrow, the defending champion, is the only acting 
nominee from "Friends," which consists only of sup­
porting actors. Her Phoebe Buffet role leaped into a 
depth unseen in "Friends," as she had her triplets, gave 
them up and dealt with it. If anyone can repeat as 
champion, Kudrow will be the one. 
Lucy Liu, who plays the coldhearted Ling on "Ally 
McBeal," was a high point in a sometimes repetitive 
season. As one of the few minority actresses nominated, 
a win for Liu would certainly be some good PR for the 
Academy. 

Wendie Malick, another first-time nominee, unfortu­
nately does not have a strong show to support, as the 
other nominees do. Therefore her well done efforts on 
"Just Shoot Me" can't level up to the just-as-good efforts 
on better shows. 
The final nominee, Doris Roberts, proves that age 
doesn't matter when it comes to comedy. Playing Marie 
Barone, mother of the man who everybody loves, 
Roberts' neurotic character excels at creating a pathetic · desire to remain in her son's life forever. 
Who should win: It's a toss-up 
Who will win: Kudrow 
Outstanding Supporting Actor in a comedy 
The Academy probably had a tough time choosing five nominees for this category, as the choice candidate is a little more clear-cut. Nominees include Peter Boyle of "Everybody Loves Raymond," John Mahoney of 'Trasier," Peter Mar.Nichol of "Ally McBeal," David Hyde Pierce of "Frasier" and David Spade of "Just Shoot 
M ., 
e. 

Peter Boyle serves the similar purpose in "Raymond" 
that Doris Roberts does. As an older actor, he adds a 
pathetic sense of senility to the cast. 
MacNichol was probably nominated merely for the 
eccentric quality of his character, but he should not be 
recognized as support for the rest of the cast of "Ally." 
Mahoney and Pierce, though very strong comedic 
actors, must suffer for the less-than-stellar "Frasier" 
season. David Spade, though the most recognizable 
member of the "Just Shoot Me" cast, perhaps is the fun-
Photo courtesy of 2oth Century Fox The cast of "The Practice" hopes to make it two in a row this Sunday at the Emmy Awards. The David Kelley show Is nominated for 13 awards. 

T E 
0 N 
O
THE Friday, September 10, 1999 BSERVER page 13 
Ally and e really good friends 
ninst of tho livn nominees. Who should win: Boyle Who will win; Boylo 
Outstanding Supporting Actress in a drama 
Tho nominees includP. Lara Flynn Boyle of "The Practice," Kim Delaney of "NYPD Blue," Camryn Manhoim of "Tht~ Practice," Nancy Marchand of "The Sopranos" and Holland Taylor ol' "The Practice." 
With thrne nominees from "The Practice," this cate­gory cnrtainly is screaming for a winnflr from another show. Marchand doesn't roally have a chance, mainly btic!LU!W she does not star in a David Kelly show, and "The Sopranos" is an IIBO show. Delaney has already won thn award. This leaves the winner as one of' the ladios from "The Practicn." 
Who should win: Manheim 
Who will win: Manheim 
Outstanding Supporting Actor in a drama 
Th11 nominees are Michael Badalucco of "The Prnctice," Benjamin Bratt of "Law and Order," Steve llarris of "The Praclicu," Steven Hill of "Law and Order" and Noah Wyle of "Ell." 
Badalucco and I larris find themselves in a no-win sit­uation. With threw of their female counterparts likely to light for the crown, attnntion will be swayed from them, and they won't get enough votes.. . 
Brau was only 11ominaLBd because it was his last sea­son on "Law and Order." and his girlfriend, Julia Roberts, helped the show lo some late-season ratings jumps. 
IIii! is a victim of the "who is he" syndrome, and also won't make too many people sweat over choosing him. 
That loaves Wyle, who has come into his own as Dr. John Carter on "EH." I le has come a long way since his freshman year as an intern, and his development as a doctor has come just as far as his development as an actor. 
Who should win: Wyle 
Who will win: Wyle 
Outstanding Actress in a comedy 
Also another strong category, the best actresses, according lo the Academy, include Jenna Elfman of UIJharma and Greg," Calista Flockhart of "Ally McHeal," Patricia Heaton of "Everybody Loves Raymond," Helen llunt of "Mad About You" and Sarah Jessica Parker of "Sex and the City." 
Though it wouldn't be surprising if Parker won the Emmy {she is a respected film and theater actress). the fact that her performance is made better by the smart and foarless writing of' "Sex" will detract from the per­sonal mnphasis of the award. 
llunt. who has lost the role of favorite -though she has won the award the past two years -could well be thn dark hurse in the cabigory, especially knowing that hnr snries has ended its run. 
Elf'man. like Johnson of "Third Hock," plays an over­llw-top character, which probably helps her chances at llm Amnrican Comedy Awards, but not here. 
Tim rnal racn is between I Leaton and Flockhart. who both huve bona fide hit shows, but differ in their roles. As star, Flockhart has proven it is not necessary to be thn cnutrnl charactnr as long as those supporting char­adflrs arn of' high nnough quality to create su0kient 
intiirplay. 
I lnaton, on the other hand, must play second fiddle tn slar/onscrnPn husband Hay. The way sho is able to stt•al tlw scone. hownver. says much /'or her ability as lead aclrt!SS. 
Who should win: I lnaton 
Who will win: Flockhart 
Outstanding Actor in a comedy 
t\notlwr int11rnsting battle, tho best actor nominees includn i<Jur of last year's nominees and one newcomer. TIH'y are Michaiil J. Fox of "Spin City," Kelsoy Grammar of "Frasilff." John Lilhgow of "Third Hock from the Stm," l'aul H(1iser Clf "Mud About You" and Hay Homano of"Ev1\ryllody Loves Raymond." 
Dospito tho crndibility of all the actors, the winner will most-likuly bn dccidod based on the personal life of onn Marty McFly. After revealing to the public that he has Parkinson's disflase, Fox is surely thfl favorite to win the Bost Actor statuettr, with an unfortunate sym­pathy vote. 
Who should win: 
Homano .. 
Who will win: Fox 
Outstanding Actress in a drama 
Nominees include Gillian Anderson of "The X-Files." Lorraine Bracco of "The Sopranos." Edie Falco of "The Sopranos," Christine Lahti of "Chicago Hope" and Julianna Margulies of "ER." 
Following the trend of the evening, the 1180 show will not have any wins in the major cate­gories. The two stars of television's two medical dra­mas, both respected actresses, unfortu­nately will have to bow t() the famous Dr. Scully. 
Anderson will gain her trophy once again, at the same time gaining respect for her show and_ costar David Duchovny, both whom were snubbed in their respective categories. 
'Who should win: Anderson 
Who will win: Anderson 
Outstanding Actor in a drama 

-
This contest will be decided, perhaps, by who has the best butt (at least from female voters ... and maybe some male voters). The nominees include Dennis Franz of "NYPD Blue," "James Gandolfini of "The Sopranos," Dylan McDermott of "The Practice," Jimmy Smits of "NYPD Blue" and Sam Waterston of"Law and Order." 
Based on the entertainment media's popularity con­test, the likely winner will be McDermott. 
Smits and Franz are perennial contenders, but those other two guys don't have a shot at the gold. 
Who should win: Duchovny 
Who will win: McDermott 
Outstanding Comedy 
The five nominees are "Ally McBeal," "Everybody Loves Haymond," "Frasier," "Friends" and "Sex and the City." 
Newcomers "Sex and the City" and "Everybody Loves Raymond" need some Emmy experience before they start taking home the big cheese, while "Frasier," which has won the past five awards in this category, will finally be let down this year. 
This leaves a duel between the popular "All) McBeal" and the even more popular "friends." Considering the quality of the shows' seasons. "Friends" has the upper hand in this contest. 
Who should win: "Friends" 
Who will win: "Friends" 
Outstanding Drama 
The nominees are ''EH," "Law and Order," "NYPD Blue," "ThA Practice" and "The Sopranos." 
Whilt~ the comedy category has been dominated by Frasier the past several years, the drama rate­gory has shared the wealth a litlle m9re. 
Hut that most likely will change come Sunday, when David Kelley's "The Practice" will run into the show as the favorite and take the final award of tho night. 
Who should win: "The Sopranos" 
Who will win: "The Practice" 

.. 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, September 10, 1999 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Catfish Hunter loses battle with Lou Gehrig's disease 
Associated Press 
Pitcher Jim "Catfish" Hunter, the model of control ·in a 15­year Hall of Fame career, died Thursday of Lou Gehrig's dis­ease, which left him unable to grip a baseball at the end of his life. He was 53. 
Hunter, baseball's first big money free agent, died at his home in Hertford, N.C., where he fell Aug. 8 and hit his head on some concrete steps. He was unconscious for several davs in the hospital, but improvect" and was sent home to his Perquimans County farm on Saturday in fair condition,

... 
according to Rev. Keith Vaughan, a family spokesman. 
Hertford was the same coun­try town where Hunter grew up to become one ()f the game's most dominant pitchers. 
As the centerpiece of pitching staffs, first with the Oakland Athletics and then with the New York Yankees, Hunter won 224 games, produced five straight 20-viclory seasons. a perfect game and a Cy Young Award. 
It was at home in Hertford, however, that he returned each winter to enjoy the hunting and fishing of the small North Carolina town and where friends and family always called him "Jim" or "Jimmy," but never "Catfish." 
That was where Athletics owner Charles 0. Finley found Hunter, one of the first building blocks .in a dynasty team that won three straight World Series from 1972-74. 
Finley pinned the nickname "Catfish" on the pitcher, and Hunter went along with it. He loved a joke and when the uwner decided his players should all have mustaches, Hunter was one of the first to grow ()J1e and collect the $300 bonus. 

Hunter camo up with the A's in 1965 and punctuated the team's move from Kansas City to Oakland with a perfect game against the Minnesota Twins on May 8. 1968. At the time, it was just the seventh perfect game in modern baseball history. 
"He was a big game pitcher, a consistent pitcher who always kept you in the ball game," said Sal Bando, the third basoman on that Oakland team. "lie con­sistently pitched well in big games. He was a No. 1 starter, and you can't win without one." 
Bando recalled Hunter as thP ultimate team player, a guy who loved to sit around the clubhouse, spinning stories with a country drawl. 
"He was very low key, a very warm person. He treated every­body the same. If you were an extra man or you were a star, it didn't matter. Just a down to earth guy." 
Bando remembered how Hunter loved the outdoors and did not let baseball interfere. Typical was when the pitcher won 20 games for the first time in 1971. 
"What I remember most about it is he had been up early in the morning (that day) fish­ing." he said. "He was a strong guy. He was up by 4 or 5 and went fishing. He got in about noon, showered, went to the ballpark, pitched ten innings and drove in the winning run." 
By 1974, when the Athletics won their third straight World Series, Hunter was ready to become a baseball trailblazer. Finley had failed to pay an annuity clause in his contract and the pitcher's.grievance went to arbitration. He was declared a free agent, setting off a surreal scene in Hertford, where baseball executives trudged to recruit him for their teams. 
Finally. he settled on the Yankees, agreeing to a land­mark $3.75 million five-year contract that was signed on New Year's Eve, 1974. 
Yankees owner George Steinbrenner never regretted the deal. 
"Catfish Hunter was the cor­nerstone of the Yankees' suc­cess over the last quarter cen~ tury," Steinbrenner said in a statement Thursdav. "We were not winning before Catfish arrived ... He exemplified class and dignity and he taught us how to win." 
Hunter was the second Yankees Hall of Farner to die this year. Joe DiMaggio died March 8 at age 84. 
In today's baseball econom­ics, Hunter's contract was a small-change deal. But it made him the highest-paid player in baseball history at the time, and set the stage for full-scale free agency, which began after the 1976 season. 
"I was probably the first play­er who broke it open for other players to he paid what they're worth," he said in 1987, shortly after he was elected to the Hall · of Fame. 

The contract made him base­ball's highest-paid player, and he became the Yankees' 
workhorse the following two years. completing 51 of 75 starts and leading the team to its first pennant in 12 seasons. 
"Catfish was a very unique guy," said Lou Piniella, a team­mate on those Yankees clubs. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Nacre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Qeadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the righr to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Coach's Sports Bar & Grill  LOADED  BUYING and SELLING N D FOOT­ Family seeks 2,3, or 4 tickets to  
NOTICES  is looking for line cooks, will pay for experience. Please cal\277·7678,  6 Bedrm '00-01 yr. 273-0482 / 234-3831  FOR SALE  BALL TICKETS. GREAT PRICES. CALL 289·8048  ND-Navy game Oct. 30, reasonable priced.  
or stop by 2046 South Bend Ave.  412-741-8727  
SKYDIVE!!  LARGE 1-bdrm apt.  Spring Break Specials!Bahamas  +++++++++++++++++++++++++++  
Try the ULTlMATE RUSH  Afterschoo! childcare needed. 3:00­ All utilities + cable. $450/mo. $250  Party Cruise 5 Days $279! Includes  N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS  BIG IRISH CATHOLIC  
Training students for over 30  5:00pm weekdays (all or some).  dep.  Meals!  BUY/SELLJTRADE  FAMILY!NEED 16 G.A. TIX FOR  
years  Must be good with children and  10 mins. to ND  Awesome Beaches,  ALL GAMES  USC GAME!CALL DAVE@ 773­ 
1 hour North of South Bend  have reliable car.  273-3876,  Nightlife!Cancun & Jamaica 7  ALL LOCATIONS  281-7690 OR 610-971-2295  
Call tor class times  Call Angela 234-2211 (days), 271­ Nights  GREAT PRICES  WITH ANY TIX.THANKS.  
GREAT LAKES SKYDIVERS  8224 (eves.)  3 bdrm duplex, remodeled. 503  From $399! Florida $129!spring­ 271•9330  
- 1-800·351-6617  WANTED: Student bus help. Apply  Eddy, one mile from campus. Appliances, W/D.  breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386  !!NO STUDENT TICKETS!! TICKETMART INC.  MICHIGAN ST. @ ND tix needed!!  
LOST & FOUND  at UNIVERSITY CLUB 9am-5pm. FOOTBALL WEEKENDS MANDA­TORY.  273-8332. AVAILABLE FALL 2000  NEW Prepaid Phone Cards!!! $20 ->669 minutes  www.ndtickets.com +++++++++++++++++++++++++++  Will pay cash. Please call 634· 1147.  
Competitive wages, meals provid­ 5-6 STUDENT RENTAL...2 1/2  Call 243-9361, ask for Rob  BUYING  
LOST: My Student Ticket Book · I  ed.  BATH;COMMON AREA ON EACH  GA FOOTBALL TICKETS  Need tix for Oklahoma, Arizona  
need it for obvious reasons. It is  LEVEL AND HUGE BONUS COM­ FOR SALE  All HOME GAMES  State.  
section30 row56.  Help wanted at 4 Michiana loca­ MON AREA ... PARKING  N.D. FOOTBALL TIX  277-1659  Call Michelle, 233-9037or 631­ 
Please call 4-1663 for reward!  tions. Great pay, flex. hrs. No  LOT.LAUNDRY.  CALL 271-9412  4542.  
Sundays. Apply in person or send  DON'T DELAY ON THIS ONE.  NEED 2 MICHIGAN ST. TIX!!!  
FOUND: Large male Golden  resume to:  DAVE AT 291-2209.  FOR SALE  email: moon.6@nd.edu  NEED -NAVY G.A. TICKETS  
Labrador with red collar on campus  FRULLATI CAFE/UP MALL  N.D. FOOTBALL TIX  C. ZIMMERMAN  
on 9/8/99.  6501 N. GRAPE RD. #576  AVAILABLE FALL 2000  CALL 271·9412  FOR SALE  573-796-2943  
Call 289-9967.  MISHAWAKA, IN 46545  4-5 STUDENT RENTAL HOUSE  N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS  
SECURITY SYSTEM.CENTRAL  FREE TRIAL OF A BRAND NEW  CALL 271-9412  NEED 5 MICH. ST. TIX  
FRATERNITIES.SORORITIES &  AIR  TECHNOLOGY 30 MIN LONG DIS­ Call 631-7745  
WANTED  STUDENT GROUPS  CONDITIONING,LAUNDRY ,PARK­ TANCE CALLS FREE SEND SASE  PURDUE TIX TICKETMART  
Earn $1000-2000 with easy CIS  ING LOT... DAVE AT 291-2209.  TO G MARKS PO BOX 920528  271-9330  NEED 2 CHICAGO BEARS TIX;  
FREE FOOD AND FROSTY BEV•  Fund avant.No sales required.  NEEDHAM.MA. 02492  October 3rd vs. New Orleans  
ERAGES  Fund Rasier days are filling up, so  AVAILABLE SPRING 2000  WILL TRADE 2 NAVY OR USC  Saints. Email me at  
In return for a place to crash for the  call today.Contact  4-5 STUDENT RENTAL HOUSE  GA's FOR 2 BC  DAVE.CARON@BMO.COM  
ND-USC game. 4 '94·95 alums seeking retuge. Call  Joe · @ 1·888-522-4350.  SECURITY SYSTEM.CENTRAL AIR  TICKETS  812-339-8628  
..,  8111@ 703-469-1008 .  CONDITIONING.LAUNDRY,  Need 4 Oklahoma GAs -Matt 4­ PERSONAL  
STUDENT OPENINGS  FoR RENT  PARKING LOT... DAVE AT 291·2209.  WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT­BALL TICKETS  1248  lnteresested in jazz or classical  
5-30 hrs./week. Flex. around  271-1526  Needed: GAs to ND Home Games.  piano lessons?  
classes.  ROOMS FOR RENT IN PAIVATE  looking for 1 more roommate to  4 Oklahomas, 1 ASU, 2 uses.  Only $10/week call Joel at 288­ 
Scholarships avail.  HOME FOR ND•SMC EVENTS.  move into beautiful off-campus  SELL & BUY GA  Will pay cash. Call Morgan at 634·  4517.  
www.worktorstuden.ts.com/lN  VE,RY CLOSE TO CAMPUS  house in Riverside historic district.  FOOTBALL TICKETS  1064.  
282-2357  243-0658.  Male or female (currently 2 male, 1  277-6619  Becky, hope you have a good time  
female living there) who wants a  I NEED 6 TIX (GA OR  at home this weekend. best wishes  
Spring Break '00  THAT PRETTY PLACE,  clean, safe house and likes good  WANTED·  OTHER).FOR OKLAHOMA.  noah  
"'  Cancun,Mazatlan or Jamaica  · Bed and Breakfast Inn has space  music. N-Sync fans need not reply.  ND football tix.  CALL LIZ 243-0151  
From $399  available for football/parent wknds.  280.00/month plus utilities. Call  AM -232·2378  For all of you out there looking for  
Reps wanted! Sell 15 and travel  5 Rooms with private baths, $80·  288-4517.  PM -288-2726  SPRING BREAK 2000  variety, it is a known fact tha1 Meijer  
tree1  $115. Middlebury, 30 miles from  ''THE MILLENIUM"  jas a much better selection than  
LOWEST PRICES GUARAN­ campus. Toll Road Exit 11107, 1­ House for rent. Five bedrooms,  ND football tix tor sale.  A NEW DECADE. ..NCE IN TRAV­ most service stations.  
TEED!!!  800-4 18-948 7.  two bathrooms, beautttul condi,  AM -232-2378  EL.FREE TRIPS,FREE  
lnlo:Call 1·800-446-8355  tion,$1500/mo.  PM • 288-2726  MEALS!JAMAICA,CANCUN,FLORI  Kevin, Austin, you guys have fun  
www.sunbreaks.com  3·6 BDRM HOMES  Call Bill at 675·0776.  DA,BARBADOS,BAHAMAS.SIGN  down at Purduethis weekend.  
NEAR CAMPUS.  I NEED GA TIXS  UP BY NOV. 5 FOR 2 FREE TRIPS  
Inn @ Saint Mary's seeking van dri­ NOW OR 2000/2001.  House for rent. 8 beclrooms, two  ALL HOME  AND FREE MEALS!  Kel, check your e-mail ... i send you  
ver/house person  ROOMS ALSO  bathrooms, completely renovated.  GAMES.  1800-426-7710  gifts. gilts you will like.. and watch­ 
Good hours & pay.Applywithin.  272-6306  Call Bill at 675-0776.  2726551  WWW.SUNSPLASHTOURS.COM  ing 9021 Owith you was an honor  

I• 
Friday, September 10. 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
-.,.. 

Football 
continued from page 24 
lw bncamo head coach at Notre Dame in 19 I :i Lhat he had a stage lar!{n nnough to popularize iL 
By forcing tho Cadets to 
dnfoncl against donp passes, thn Irish wern abll! to run the ball hetwenn llw tackles becuuso tlwrn woni kss ddbndnrs close to tlw !inn. I>nep pass,is op,!ned running larH's for Irish All­t\111cric1111 f'ullhack Hay Firlwnlauh. 
Instructing the nation 
Arter the Irish proved the effectiveness of a balanced offensive attack, teams across the country began to adopt the new style or play. 
"It took a so-called smaller c:ollegti to come East and display an attack so versatile and daz­zling that it may revolutioniz11 the style ()f offensive play throughout this section of the country," the New York Evening TP!t1gram wrote on Nov. 1. 
Teams across the nation heard or a revulutionary pass which t.hn Irish implemented in the sec­
ond quarter against Army in 1913. 
With Notre Dame trailing 13­7, Dorais broke to the outside on a quarterback keep for five yards. 
facing second down, Dorais dropped back to pass, lofting one to Joe Pliska for 30 yards. 
Dorais again went to the air on 
.the following play when he hit Rockne for another long gain of 35 yards_ Rockne caught the next pass from Dorais for a 15­yard gain, and the Irish found themselves at the Cadet five yard lino. 
Eichenlaub linished the Irish 


drive with a five yard touchdown Irish line. run to give Notre Dame the lead With its ground game stalled, 14-13. Army attempted to pass for a 
touchdown but Dorais intercept­ed the ball and killed the Cadet
Second-half control 

drive.
While the Irish offense After that goal-line stand,

receivec( much praise from the Notre Dame's offense sprang to

media, the Irish defense also 

life and scored 21 points. Theplayed well, standing tall against Irish offensive explosion left little a powerful Cadet rushing attack. 
doubt of which was the betterIn the third quarter, with the 
that Saturday.
ball inside the Notre Dame I ­"The first hall' was close, butyard line, Cadet halfback Paul 

West Point was lucky," The
llodgson, who had earlier run Chicago Evening Journal report­for a tour.hdown, was tackled by ed on Nov. 1. "In tho secondRockne for a loss. On second half, it was outplayPd in everydown, halfback Frank Milburn department of tlrn game."

was slammed to the turf by the 

r----------, 
1'\11ec1r J)tR1.ze,X 
(219) 271-7674 
"Contemporary Hair Styles 7 Days A Week" 
1811 South Bend Ave. • South Bend, IN 46637 
$2.00 OFF HAIRCUT! 
WELCOME BACK SPECIAL: HOURS: M~F 9-8 SAT 9-5 SUN 11-4 
WALKING DISTANCE TO 
CAMPUS 
(coupon expires 9/30/99) .J
L 

Yo~ chose the right school. 
Now choose the right tools. 


~ =~~Go II=E,m ~ =an 

$50 Off 1~~aUSB
$150 Off 128MB ~ fW;I lom,ga USB

$SO off $50 off ~~n~~:;.,:u;~PC
Zip D<lve
$100 off g~ho~t:Y 

C'..onnaco.ic Virtual PC
HP OeokJol 81 OC

$75off $50off with W!ndo\l'ta 98 $5o off ~r1ll~~"~~or
fo, Macin!-ooh Pnnte.­

Epson Stylus Cok:Jr$50off Zip DovR $SO off 7'1()1 USS Printer
lormga USB 
Qmoecllx Virtual PC$SO off with Windowr. 96 
Epron SlylUo ColOr

$50off 740i USS Prinler Ask yourApple campus resellerfor details orvisit www.apple.com/education/StOre. Offerme! through October 22. 

Save hundreds on extras whenyou buyaMacintosh: -.. 
Choosingan Apple• Computer for school has always been asmart: move. And now it's anobrainer. Because nowwhen you purchase an iMac"', aPower Macintosh• G3, or PowerBool{-G3, you can buyaton of useful accessories and get up to $150 offeach. 
,,, 

•·Think different~ 
.... 
. ' .

lp,g,16 Friday, September 10, 1999The Observer . SPORTS 
I ============================================================================================================ 
I I 
I 
I NFL 
Dawg Pound barking for return of Browns 
the Pittsburgh Steelers, they'll calm, he said. tionally involved in the game, start to happen, you make plays. A5sociated Press 
have to fight their emotions. "I know early on I'll be you make too many mistakes. When you start pressing, and Cleveland coach Chris Palmer hyped/' he said. "I'll be running You want the game to r,ome to trying to force things, you getBEREA, Ohio has talked all week of the dan­around and jumping around. you. If you let it, good things out of position." ''Cleveland Hocks" is more 
ger of his team being sky-high But ~ ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
than the catchy rock •n' roll 

for the game. With so much 
anthem Drew Carey used as the ~o?i1t~o~ ; Have you thought about ;
attention being given to the 
theme song for his TV show. 

Browns' rebirth in the NFL, have to I I 
It's the truth, and Cleveland calm I I
Palmer doesn't want his players 
never rocks harder than when 

to get so caught up in the emo­down. If I I
becoming a
the Browns are playing at home. you don't I I
tion of the night that they forget 
On Sunday night, when 

their assignments. that's I I 
Cleveland returns to the NFL for "You just have to try and stay

the first time since l 995, focused,'' Palmer said. 

Browns fans will experience a "Everything we have done this 

range of emotions that have season has been a first time. 

fJt!;: i Catechist? i
been building up for four years. 

Eventually, we'll get to where to calm I
I
As Lheir beloved Bro.wns come we have a regular week." 

running through the tunnel, down ­
The expansion Rrowns haven't sooner of : l,,.¦ : 
73,200 screaming fans will later. a:11
had that luxury this week. Not 
christen the new Cleveland 

onlv is their first game against "YOU : 0.Jy1PUS :Browns Stadium with a sound the· rival Steelers, but it will be have to 
I MINISTRY I
that's bound to shake the Rock 

on prime time national TV as get that 
I I
and Roll Hall of Fame a few 

the final game of the NFL's emotion 
hundred yards away. : *Do you enjoy working with children or adolescents? :
opening Sunday. out .of 
"Everybody will be hyped up," 

Langham, one of three Browns you early I *Can you give two hours ofyour time each week? I
Browns corncrback Antonio 

who played in the last game in and calm 
: * Would you welcome the challenge to articulate your faith? :
Langham said. "We'll be geeked the old Cleveland Stadium, said down. 

to go. We'll be geekcd to line *Would you like to be a valuable asset to a local parish?
Cleveland's first two P.xhibition Because 1 1 'em up ant;i go toe to toe and games gave him a sense of how when I * Would you be interested in becoming a certified catechist? I fight." electric the opener will be. you get I I
Before the Browns can fight 

[t will be impossible to remain too emo-I I 
ATTENTION: Freshman 
eading---­
Two New female po  being added to the  
Cheerleading  
umbling  
Series., S  t Attitude,  
and Spiri  
Tryout Clinic:  
Joyce Cent~f ·  

I I1  If you can answer YES to any or all of these questions,  I I1  
:  come find our more about becoming a Catechist.  :  
I I1  Pick-up applications at Badin Hall-Campus Ministry,  I I1  
I I :  Call .John or Sylvia Dillon at 631-5242  I I :  
I I I I I :  (Mon.-Thurs. 4:30-5:30 P.M. classes  I I I I I :  
:  are in most need of teachers!!)  :  
I I  I I  

·------------------------------------· 
I 



Once a week the Office of International Student Affairs will showcase some ofthe most popular international films ever made. 
Visit the Office's website http://www.nd.edu/~oisa/ for more movie updates. 
Please clip out the schedule below and save it! 
~•¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦. ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ 
II 

~All-: .
• All movies will be shown in the MONTGOMERY THEATRE at LaFortune 
•¦ Center. All movies are FREE . 
•
• 

•

Wednesday, Sept. 15 8:00pm Like Water for Chocolate (Mexico) •
•

Wednesday, Sept. 22 8:00pm Black Rain (Japan) •
•
•

Monday, Sept. 27 8:00pm Ariel (Finland) •
•

.......................................................................... 
For additional information; you can contact the OISA at 631-3825. 
l"""-...--~----------.-W•---~~­
..--')llla---------------W-,__________...._._.,.__ 
hiday, September I0, 1999 Fhe Observer . SPORTS page 17 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
U.S. OPEN 
Big Mac's 500th to be 
Williams sisters set for semis 
sold for big bucks 
A,sociatcd !•res• 
ST. LOUIS 

.lim Slrnarnr, lh11 28-vuar-old architl'ct who caugl1l Mark Md;win•'s 500th home run ball, has dncidml to ,mil it during an Oct. :rn auction in tas Vogas that also will inr.ludn Mickey Mantln's 500th honw run ball. 
"We talked to a lot of pnopln,'' Shnarnr said Thursday. "W,1 talkml a lot to my wifo's family · ,rnd my family. Tlw morn we 1ulkPd ahout it. we startnd to foPI h,~tll!r about snlling it." 
Md;wirn's ball. along with Manlfo's, is tlw highlight of the auction, arrang1id by Michael BarnHs, 1irnsid1rnt of' Orw-of-a-
Associated Press 
NEWYOHK

Kincl Auctions in l . cstus, Mo. 
So far, so good.
Last season. Barnes helped Phil 
Richard Williams, tennis
Ozersky, a 26-year-uld 
rather and coach, surveyed
rnsparrher at Washington 
the U.S. Open draw before the
University, sell t\lcGwirn's 70th 
tournament began and decid­
home -run ball. Canadian comic 
ed it wasn't that complicated.
book tycoon Todd McFarlanc 
Porgct 1.he rest of the women's
paid $3,005,000 for it 
field, he said. llis daughters,
Before this season began, 
Venus and Serena, would
Barnes offered $100,000 to 
make the final a Williams
whoever caught McGwiro's 
family affair. 
50oth. The $100,000, however. 
That was 124 players ago.
was just an advance on what 
The women's draw at the
the ball might bring at an auc­
Open is down to the final four
li 011. Eddie Murray's 5001.h 
and the Williams sisters are
home run ball sold for 
still at it. one match away
$200,000, mmrny that the seller 
from making poppa's prophe­
put in a 20-year annuity that 
cy come true.
nvnnt.ually will be worth about 
The m~xt step on Friday will
$500,000. 

be the toughest of all. In semi-
Apply for the GTE Visa· on the \Neb and get up to =~e of FREE calling tiane.* 
• 
c~ of FREE calling time just for applying. 

• 
Apply on the internet and get an additionalc,~ of FREE calling time when you make your first purchase. (C~ if you apply by phone.) 

• 
Get a ~% rebate towards calling on all purchases.t 


• 
No annual fee. 

• 
No credit history required. 


www.gtecard.com 
or 
1-888-591-7900 
•calling time will eutomatically be credited to your GTE Calling Card account. twhein you carry a balat1ce from mo11th to month. Call our tolMrea number or 
vlait our web lite for complete di•cloauro of terma and conditions. 
linal matches. Venus Williams faces top-seeded Martina Hingis and sister Serena meets defending champion Lindsay Davenport. 
Davenport and Serena Williams completed the semi­final pairings with three-set victories Wednesday. Davenport survived two match points and held off Mary Pinrce 6-2, 3-6, 7-5. Then Williams defeated former champ Monica Seles 4-6, 6-:{, 6-2. 
A day earlier, Ilingis beat Anke Huber 6-2. 6-0 and Venus Williams downed Barbara Schatt 6-4, 6-3. 
"I still have one more match," Serena Williams said. "My dad has been right about a lot of things. lf I can do well in this match, I know it will be great." 
Davenport and llingis are entirely capable of upsetting the Williams plans. Both have won the U.S. Open and came into this tournament ranked 1-2 in the world. 
Davenport has won 12 straight matches over the past two years at the Open and had not dropped a set until the quarterfinals against Pierce. 
Hingis has been on a straight-set mai;ch through the tournament and reached the semifinals at the Open for the fourth straight year. She has one championship and one runner-up finish. 
Hingis has a 7-3 record against Venus Williams, including victories in three of 
Happy 
21st 
Katietto 
Love, RoccoKito 

Qu1cK CAu 
233-6000 
r------------------, 

-ND to Michiana Regional  
Airport  $2.00 OFF  
One Person $8  
More than 1 , $5 each  EACH TRIP  
-ND to Entertainment Area  C!UICK CAB  
One Person $5  233-6000  
More than 1, $2 each  

-Waiting Time 10-5 Minutes 
I I I I 


We Appreciate Your I I 
L------------------J
Business Welcome Home! 

their last four meetings. 
Serena has beatnn Davenport in two of their three meetings, both times on tho same kind of hardcourts they're playing on at the Open. 
That doesn't disturb Davm1port, who will always have a warm spot in her heart for tho National Tennis Center bncause she earned her first Grand Slam title 1.hern. 
"I've had a good time trying to defend this title, whether it ends Friday, ends Saturday, whatever," she said. 
For a while, it seemed Davenport might not reach the semifinals. Pierce had the dr-fending champion in ,deep trouble but let her get away. A rain delay in tho third set helped Davenport regroup after avoiding the two match points. 
Serena has taken a lough path to the semis. dropping the first set in each of her last thrne matches but rncovnring each time to advanc11. Venus, too, hit a speed bump when she dropped the first set of • her match against Mary Joe Fernandez before rallying. 
If they win Friday, the Williams sisters would play each other for the fourth time. Venus has won the first' three and Serena thinks she knows why. 
"Venus is a more pownrful player than I am," she said. "I use more of tlrn court than Venus, although slrn's doing that a lot better now." 

-
.. 
-.... 

page 18 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 10, 1999 
.,., 
==========================================================================================::=:================= I 


-
Make your next step as memorable as your first. 
Assurance and Tax Positions 
Take a giant step to\ivard an exciting career path. At KPMG, you'll find opportunity for grovrth and recognition as you move along the road to success. 
For more information, check out: www. kprngcom pus. com 

Cf999 by KPMG, LLP, iho U.S member lirm ol KPMG, lnternatior1al 
• We are an equal opporluntly amptOyer. mff/dfv 
It's time for clarity.™ 

Friday, September I 0, 1999 
The Observer . SPORTS 
page 19 

NFL 
Bengals ink reciever to one-year contract 
spend his golden years with the
Associated l're!s 
Bengals instead of in retire­nrnnt," said Brown, who
CINCINNATI attnrnpted to set a lightheartedWidn r11c11iver Carl Pickens 

Lcmo.

ended his walkout. Thursday l'icknns. 29, said he would sitand signod a onc-ynar, $3.5 mil­
out the season rather than
lion d11al with tlrn Cincinnati return to the Bengals, who
Brnigals. 
tagged him as their franchise
ltl! could play Sunday in 
player but were unable to get a
Cincinnati's season opnrrnr 
trad1i offor that included a first­against tho Tnnnnss11e Titans. 
round draft pick.

Pickons, thn Bengals' earner Brown said the Bengals wernrncniving l11ader, met for throe trying to negotiatn a long-term
hours with Bengals prnsidenl deal with Pickens, who willMike Brown. Thn deal was 
rnceivo the avorago of the topannouncnd after tlw learn fin­livfl play1ws at his position. 
isho,J practice and lld't Uw 
"Ti,rn~ changes everything,"
Spinrrny l•fold facility. 
said Pickens, who !'aced the
"Wn wish Lhat this had lrnen prosp11ct of losing aboutcorwhrdml earlinr, but il's good $200,000 a weok if' he did notthat it's conrludcd so Carl can come to terms bel'orn Sunday. 
QUALITY Service, Student Discounts • Gift Certi icates • Guaranteed Satisfaction! 
What' 
Your 
Plan? 
CERTIFIED Instructors • DESIGNER Tanning with ADVANCED TANNING Systems SUPER Size Beds & Booths • CLEAN & SANITARY! • CREDIT CARDS Accepted • OPEN 7 Days 
I---------------------,Sign up NOW for Fun Tan's sa9'1 
II Unlimited Tanning in 1999for only m--.hCOupO: I
-------------------------w1t 
I 272-7653 University Location near Notre Dame I 256-9656 Corner of Grape and McKinley 291-2000 Southland Plaza Ireland & Ironwood I
L--------------------~ 



:,!I 
it 

Friday, September 10, 1999 9pm-lam • RSRC Music by B & C Music Factory 
Boxing Glove Ping Pong 


:1 
't 

us OPEN .... 
Pioline reaches semifinals 
three tiebreakers, a shootout 

in which Pioline has been whipped past tlrn surprisedperfect this tournament Kuerten. 
Assodated Pres< forehand down the line that 
NEW YORK Except for the extra points Pioline, who stumbled and

Cedric Pioline, twice a 
at the end of each set, it was fell while hitting the winner,Grand Slam finalist but never 
an evenly played match rolled onto his back and a champion, continued his 
between the hard-serving pumped his arms in victory.
reign as king of the tiebrnak­Frenchman and the gallant, Kuerten, equally impressed,
er Thursday, reaching the 
animated Brazilian, who has dropped his racket, raised
semifinals of the U.S. Open 
a Grand Slam tournament his arms in triumph for his
with a 4-6, 7-6 (8-6), 7-6 (16­
title in his resume, that com­opponent, then walked to
14), 7-6 (10-8) victory over 
ing in the French Open in Pioline's side of' the net to
Gustavo Kuerten. 
1997. 

congratulate the Frenchman.
In Saturday's semifinals, Six times Pioline has As his made his way back to
Pioline will face the winner 
played a tiebreaker here and his side of' the court, Kuerten
of Thursday night's late each time wound up with the continued to applaud the
match pitting seventh-seeded Lwo-point advantage. shot.
Todd Martin against Slava 
''I'm trying to be aggres­"It was a great point," theDosedel. The other semifinal sive," Pioline said. "If you fifth-seeded Kuerten said. "I
will send second-seeded 
stay back in a tiebreak, you think maybe the best pointAndre Agassi against No. 3 
give an opportunity to the f'rom the match.... I couldn't
Yevgeny Kafelnikov. ­
other" player. 

believe it. It was great. I play
Pioline broke Kuerten 's The tiebreakers highlight­well that point; he play bet­serve once in the match, ed what was one or the bet­ter than me. So I congratu­
which lasted nearly 3? 
ter matches in the final late him. It was an amazing
hours, but was able to force 
Grand Slam event of the 

shot." 
year. Time and again, thfl Pioline continually came up two traded what appeared to with just enough winners ­be winning.shots, only to see 79, to 61 for Kuerten -to the uther come up with a grab a spot in the Openbetter reply. semifinals for tlrn first time 
On one such exchange -since 1993, when Im lost to 
the 19th point of' the fourth­Pete Sampras. Pioline also set tiebreaker -Kuerten hit fell to Sampras in the final at what he thought was a win­Wimbledon two years ago. 
ner deep into the corner. This year, Sampras pulludPioline, sprinting across the out of the tournament with a 
baseline, responded with a bad back. 
Kevin Sharpe 
P ANIST 
TUESDAY SEPTEMBER 14, 1999 
7:30 PM LITTLE THEATRE 
For ticket information contact the Saint Mary's Box Office 
284-4626 
cinema@thesnite 
"THE RICHEST AND MOST SATISFYING 
ROMANTIC MOVIE OF THE YEAR! 
Full of performances to savor from Geoffrey Rush, Ben Affleck. Joseph Fiennes and a show-stopping Judi Dench..Best of a~I. Gwyneth Paltrow finally has a movie to star 1n that's as radiant as she is. Nothing short of enchanting ...Grade: A!" 
Owt II Glt 1h~ 1nrnu, [NURIAIIJM[',1 WEIKLY 
"A GLORIOUS 
FILM THAT 
· MAKES MOVIEGOING 
FUN AGAIN!" 
MliliGWiBi\iill 
'Two 
ENTHUSIASTIC THUMBS UP!" 
LffliMlfiidi 
.. 

,.,;,.,, ..,. WPH"' · 6EOflREY COLIH BlN ""'JUDI 
ENNES RUSH FIRTH AFFLECK DENCH 
Shakespeare In Love 
A comedy about the greatest love story almost never told. 
Fri. & Sat. 7:15 p.m. and 9:45 p.m.
presented by ND Film, Television, and Theatre 
www.nd.edu/~cothweb 
...... 
-
.. 


'W' ­

page 20 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 10, 1999 
-
-

FORTUNE
Ui~1181 
~PANIEI 
ID WORK FOR 

Imagine looking forward to the week as much as you look forward to the weekend. Imagine spending each minute with unlimited opportunity and continuous options. At Ernst & Young we provide access to the most sophisticated and effective tools in the industry. See you Monday. www.ey.com 
.... 

----,...-.-----------~---­
hiday, Seprember I 0, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
,,,. 
VOLLEYBALL

CROSS COUNTRY 
Notre Dame runs to Valparaiso 
. Watson, Deeter pace 1999 squads 
Spe<ial lo the Observer 
The Notre Dame mcn·s and wuml'n's cross country teams lrngin tlm I 9CJ9 season al the Valparaiso lnvilationnl this Wl\ckend. 
l'arlicipaling in tho Valparaiso Invitational are Wcsl<:rn Michigan. Wisco11sin­(; re1\ n Bay. Marquntte, Purclun. IUPUI, Chicago State, DanvillH .Junior College. K<' 11 d a 11 Co II ti ge a n d Augustana. 
Tlw wonrnn am in tlw b11st 
sha1w to improve from the \ ()<)8 season. Senior i\ll­Anrnrican Dentor will lrn a favorito in Hvnry meet and should contend f'or the NCAA title. 
SPnior Alison Klernmer conies off a 22nd place finish in th,~ ll is tr ict IV Championship last y1~ar and is a two-Lime J\ll-i\11rnrican in the 10.000 meter for the Irish track team. Senior Erin Luby is one of the team captains and has two top 25 finishes in t 9tJ8. 
Patty Hice also is ono of the top runners returning. Rice had bar.k-to-hack 27th place finishes in Urn Big East and district championships last year. 
Freshman .lonnifor Ilandley should make an immediate impact on the Irish roster. Handley qualified for the World Junior Cross Country Championships in 1999, 1996 and 1995. She also was fourth last season at the Canadian .Junior Cross Country Championships. 
The men will once again be led by junior Shay. Shay fin­ished in the top two in the first three races last year and earned a NCM invitation with a 1Oth-placn finish at the dis­trict championship. 
Sophomore Wats()n should continue his improvement from 1998. Watson finished sev1\11th in the Hig East 
Championships last year and had an impressive off-season. Walson won the 1999 USA Junior Winter Cross Country National Championship. edg­ing out second-place finisher Steve Slattery of the University of Colorado by two seconds. 
That win enabled Watson to enter the l 999 World .Junior Cross Country Championships in Belfast, Northern Ireland, where he finished 34th out of 155 runners and was the third American to cross the finish line, helping the U.S. team to a sixth-place finish. 
Senior Ryan Maxwell returns for a fiflh year in 1999. Maxwell finished fourth in the Wolf & Kettle Invitational last year and sev­enth at the National Catholic meel. 
Freshman Antonio Lopez will providf! the Irish with some youthful depth. Lopez was a three-time event winner at the 1999 New Mexico state track meet and third in the state cross country meflt. 
Saint Mary's readies for tough tourney 
By KATIE McVOY Sports Writer 
After hard week of practice. the Saint Mary's volleyball team is looking to leave it's mark at this weekend's tour­
·nament at Ohio Northern. 
''After our second-place fin­ish last weekend, we are hop­ing to play just as well or bet­ter this weekend," senior Agnes Bill said. 
The Ohio Northern Tournament -one of the sea­son's toughest -is run round-robin fashion. The top teams are determined by their total numbers of wins and losses. 
"This is one of the most competitive tournaments of the season," said coach Randa Shields. "All around everyone is at an advanced level." 
Shields is looking to show this year's competition that her team can be a real con­tender. 

"We're not going to let the other teams think that we am an easy victory," said Shields. "They are going to have to fight if they want to win." 
The Belles practiced hard on offense this week. 
"We've work11d on a smarter offense -playing more shots and smarter tips," Shields said. 
A good performance this weekend will help the Belles· team morale. 
"It would put confidence into the girls." said Shields. ..,. "Also. St. Mary's is slowly beginning to be looked at as a competitive team. If we could gain that confidence in our­seIves, then other teams would see us as a contender." 
Saint Mary's will test its skills against Manchester at 
3:30 p.m. Friday. The Belles were victorious in both meet­ings with Manchester last sea­son. 
The Belles then will face Mount Saint Joseph. 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Rolex honors former Irish captain at U.S. Open 
-

Special 10 die Observer 
l'HINCETON, N . .I. 

c;11v1•r11or 1'11dr11 Hossel111. captain of the Notrn Damn llJh{, men's Wnnis team and curn!nt governor or Puerto Biro. has l)lwn namnd one of two winrwrs of the l CJ<J<) Holnx /\d1iPvnnHrnl /\wards and will lw honored at a spndal cere­mony lwld during the Holnx lln1:11ptio11 l'or thn U.S. Open Friday !\Vl!lling at tho "21" Lluli in Nrw York City. 
llossl'll1i graduated from 
" ~!i~~!i?ht~!i!~i:t~~~1:~s1te al www kerasotes.com 
~-•••••-~••••--M•U ,._._ •••••""'"• ...,,, •• .,...,,,.,.,,m,u .......,, ................,.,..............,,.,.,.,.,.,•• 
. SHOWPLACE I6 • 299-6063 I 
All Stadium Sea111,g • All D1g1tal Sound _wof r.larn St on Ch1ppewc1 • South Bend 
A~Tlc:ttlt Salea Avall.llble ,v .L$4 00 •All Showa Uo111 I pm ~/ 
- •  •Studtntf •Senlora  C:,..  
Ct11II Factor  Oigilal  A  
11 <Sj 4 30710950  
Ouis,de Pmv1dence  OKJIIBI  R  
(2•0J 5 10. HO, 10:lS  
S11r ol Echoe1  Dtg1!al  A  
12 •s1 s·oo 7.40 10 10  
Suclh Sense  01g1tal  PG-13  
12 1014 40 7.20 10 00  
The 131h W11mor  01911al  A  
12 soi 525 e 10 10·25  
The Aslron¦t.11'a Wf'fa­ Oig11ta1  A  
Q 10  
Dudley Do-R1W,I  D1g1tei  PG  
12 OOJ 4 10 6 30 g·QO  
Oeap Bk.le SH  Dl"llftl  A  
I1.501 '45 7 55  10.15  
ST1gm11tn f1:'l0i 4 15  1·00 ~•o  Olg:1ml  'R  
12 JOI  5.15 aoo  10:20  
11unaway 811de Otg1tal  PG  
12:201 5 20 7 45 10.05  
ihe Bh!1r Wilch Proj{'GI  A  
12.251 4 JS 8 35 8 ~5 10·40  
Bo~moer  01g1Tel  PO• t3  
120,SJ 425 ., ,s 9'.lO  
'No Sho Sa1 Sept  Iin  
For Lo'-• 01 tho Game Sneak Pre1t1ew  PG-1:)  
Sal  Sflplember 11 11! 7 00 PM ONLY  
(2.2<>1. 20 7·00 


11av and M our uuost al Bowhnger at 9 30 PM lnt~kl1 06dQel D1~1lal ?0 
A Dug of FiaoiMra D1g1lal PG 
11 ,01 • 15 
Mickey BhJO Eyes 01g1tal P0-13 12:151530 '805 1030 
• No sriow Sal Sepl 11th fhe Thomat. C1own A!la11 01g1lal A 
,, 001400 7:05 945 Qhat S\!H.~ Snei'.!k Preview P0-13 Sal Si!Plember 1111'1 di 8 00 PM ONLY Otg1!8l 
love Shokt. R 
Notre Dame in 1966 and cap­tained the '66 squad that remains the last Irish men's tonnis team to complete an undefeated season at 15-0. Fo r m nr Swath mo.re t e n n is player Christine Grant, who currently servns as Commissioner of llealth and Senior S11rvices for the State of New Jnrsey, is the other recip­iPnt or the award. 
Hnssellli and Grant will b1! prnsnntcd their awards by Stan Smith, a former NCAA singles and doubles champion 
FREE REFILL 
On Popcorn & Soft Drrnks' 
at the University of Southem California who went on to win 39 professional singles lilies including Wimbledon and the 
U.S. 
Open. Both winners will receive a distinctive Rolex timepiece, a framed, calli­graphic certificate and reserved seats at Saturday's 

U.S. 
Open women's final and men's semifinals. 


In addition, the Holcx Achievement Award winners' alma maters' collegiate tennis programs each receive a $2,500 donation from Rolex Watch, U.S.A. The Holcx Achievement Awards were 
created  in  1994  by  Rolex  
Watch,  U.S.A.,  and  the  
Intercollegiate  Tennis  

Association (ITAl to pay trib­ute to past participants in the world of collegiate tennis who 

have achieved excellence in their chosen careers. The man and woman honored annually by Rolex and the ITA as the Rolex Achievement A ward winners are honored for both their professional suc­cesses and their contributions to society. 
Rossello has been governor of Puerto Rico since 1993 and was reelected in '96. Since taking office he has initiated health-care reform to make private health insurance accessible to the entire popu­1a tion of Puerto Hico, cut income taxes by 20 percent and has seen both unemploy­ment and the crime rate plum­met to their lowest level in decades. 
llossell6 played No. 1 singles for legendary Irish coach Tom


Italian/Sicilian '--'-.'--,......___zrrattoria Dining ,j1 •--..\., ...... \ J • ' ~S S. Michigan St. 
! ) \ 
l.' 

Fre&h prepared Q.µnters, \ .-South Bend, IN 46601 
Pizza, Beverages c-----·?V 219-233-1000 .. ------·--·-------· -·--~----'~......!,....... ---------­
Do~town South Bend~s F'inest Italian Dining 
Fallon and received the 1966 Byron V. Kanaley Award. the most prestigious honor award­ed to a Notre Dame senior monogram winner who has been exemplary both as stu­dents and leaders. 
"When Pedro came to Notre Dame he was not only an excellent player but a brilliant student," said Fallon, who won over 500 matches while coach­ing the Irish for 31 years from 1957-87. "Ile is one of the great players we had at Notre Dame and someone we think very highly of. This is a very 11tting and deserving award." 
"The lessons learned on the court over a period of four years are a vital companion to the academic lessons of higher education," said David A Benjamin, ITA Executivn Director. "The winners of the Holex Achievement Awards arc individuals who benefited from the experience of inter­collegiate competition, went on to greater accomplish­ments, and generously shared their good fortune with others 
-

around them." 
"Governor Hosse116 was incredibly kind to as whnn our team made a trip to Puerto Hico in 1996," said current Irish head coach Bob Bayliss. 
"Ile went out or his way to arrange for us a tour of the Governor's Mansion, La Fortaleza, which was not at all expocted considering his busy schedule." 
The Ro lox Ach ievenurn t. Award winnnrs are nominated by their past tennis coaches ­or by the current coaches of' their alma mawrs' t1\nnis pro­gram. From the hundrnds of nominees, 12 finalists arc selected by tlrn ITA. The men's and women's winners arc tlrnn det1nrn in eel by th n Ho lex Achievement Awards Selection Panol. 


page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, September I 0, 1999 
..... 
-
-
.,. 
Soccer 
continued from page 24 
Porter, Spencer Barton and Heagan Hender. All three have' starting experience and will combine to form a tough offense. Porter, despite miss­ing part of last season with a shoulder injury. was an asset on offense as the team's ser,­ond leading scorer on the year. 
With a large portion ()f its starting backfield returning this season, an experienced and talented Panther defense could pose the biggest threcit to an Irish vif:tory. 
Notre Dame has yet to score more than one goal in each of its victories. and despite delivering 16 shots on goal against Western Michigan, tho Irish wNe not able to finish any offensive plays. 

The Panthers have com­piled an overall 1-2-1 record and 0-1 mark in the 13ig Fast so far this season. They dropped their latest game to West Virginia Mountaineers 3-1. Despite the losses, the offense has been a dominat­ing force in the box, putting an average of just more than 15 shots on goal in each con­test. 
The Irish are even in their 
series with the Panthers at 1­1-2. The last two meetings of the teams have resulted in overtime ties. 
Celebrate the fall season with a change in dining. 
Did you know? 
There is a group on campus to help students facing disciplinary hearings before the Office of Residence Life. Peer advocates are specially trained to guide students through the disciplinary process. They comprise a division of Judicial Council, a Student Government organization, and are not part of Residence Life. 
Judicial Council is recruiting sophomores, juniors and seniors for a limited number of openings in the Peer Advocacy division. Applications are now available in the Student Government office on the second floor of LaFortune, and are · due by Wednesday, September 15. 
Questions? Call Kelly Folks at 1-4556 
Irish 
continued from page 24 
Ashley Dryer suffered a sprained ankle just before halftime of Notre Dame's 3-2 overtime loss to North Carolina last Fr-iday night. Drver did not practir.e this w~ek, and her status for Sunday will be a game-time decision. 
Even with <ill tho injuries. the Irish. who were ranked fourth by the NSCAA and third bv Sot:cer Times on Sept. 6: should handle the Red Storm easily. 
St. John's does not have a single player on the All-Big East preseason first team; the Irish have four -goalkflnper LaKeysia Beene and midfielrl­ers Jen Grubb, Jenny Streiffer and Anne Makinen. 
With veterans like Beene, Grubb, Stroiffer and Makinen on the team. Waldrum said he docsn'L think he will have any trouble motivating the team for game against St. John's. 
"This group so far has no struck me as a group that goes into the games lightly," he said. "I just haven't seen any indicators of a let down. I think everyone now, espedal­lv since it is so early in the ieason, is really excited to play. 
"Maybe if this game were at 
the tail-end of the season it 
might be a different story. But 
&~ 
right now there is still a high 
motivation just to play some­
body di!l"erent." he said. 
Offensive attack 
In their last game against Duke, the Irish shuwr.ased a high powered offensive attack that scored four goals in the first half. 
Waldrum said he wants to see that attacking-style offense continue against St. John's. 
"I think we wen-' very good in the first half against Duke." the first-year Irish head coach said. "We were able to gr~t our midOelders forward and we were able to get in behind their defense a lot. Hopefully we'll be able to do that against St.. John's too." 
If the Irish offense scores a lot of goals early, Beene should leave the game early like she did against Duke. 
While Beene is an All­American and candidate for the Herman award -given to the nation's best women's soct:er player -backup goalies Elizabeth Wagner and Sani Post are inexperienced. 
They both played in the sec­ond half against Duke, and Waldrum hopes to get them into the game against St. John's as well. 
"We want to get some expe­rience, and right now there are very close," Waldrum said. "In these first few games, we want to get them both some time." 

Welcome Back to Academia! 
Enroll now for a taste of Italy 101. 
For starters, try out our 
Spinach Artichoke Dip or order 

one of our salads like the Papa Vino's is a great place 
Papa's House 

for any occasion! We've
Salad. Enjoy generous portions of 

got everything from 
contemporary Italian entrees and pastas appetizers to dinner like Chicken 
specialties and fresh
Scallopini or Salmone Alla pasta to a full Griglia... or from range of desserts and
Sizzilini"™ to Linguini Pescatore. 

specialty coffees. 

JOHN DAILY/The Observer 
Jen Grubb (6) captains the Notre Dame women's soccer team as It travels to take on Big East rival St. John's on Sunday. 
·Turtle Creek 

Parking By Permit Only 
So if y,.,u're looking for great food with Italian flair, come on in to Papa Vino's. 

Mishawaka• 5110 Edison Lakes 
• 
Parkway• 219.271.1692 




Friday, September I 0, 1999 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
-

HERE'S WHAT WE'RE BRINGING TO NOTRE DAME THIS WEEK: SEPTEMBER I 5
fLIX TDUR 7:00 
HESBURG AUDITORIUM $2 
8:00 & I 0:30

CUSHING
E11TV 

FRIDAY & SATURDAY $2 SUB M-EMBER OF THE MONTH J<ATIE GALLAGHER. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 36 Professor e1 luck!" 1 Go postal Higgins, to Eliza e2 Falls 37 Subsequently
5 Airport lineup 63 Eighty-six 39 Old-fashioned 84 Big house in 
9 Be a successful 
prefix with photo

pitcher London 13 School locale "° Job title never 85 One of a 50's held by any
14 Place holder? sitcom couple 
U.S. President 

11 Half court game? 
42 Forgoes the 
DOWN

11 Startup cost lyrics, perhaps 1 "Kazaam" star, 1s Impracticality 44 Vote in Quebec familiarly20 Impractical 45 Merci across 2 When doubled, 22 One of a the river an old TV signoffnursery rhyme 47 long-legged 3 Boeingtriad fishers engineer's study 23 Strains 49 Drag locale 4 Solar24 Schoolmarm's 52 Advantage s Guardedimpartation 53 Enfants attend s Destination of 25 Direction in them some flights23-Across 54 Lasting event? 
1 Common­

21 Working model 57 Bureaucratic interest group 2a Away buzzwords a Forest flow 29 Mark 59 Malh models 9 Religionalternatives eo Passage in originating in 31 Old whistle? Latin 
Cuba 10 Beau monde ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 Kind of beam 
12 Portrays in Puzzle by Ingrid Truemper words 
a2 Emigrant15 Many Punjabis 
eschewer 19 Shown, in a 
33 Resolve, with way 
"out" -=.i~..:...i-=--• .o1-:+.-+:+:C-1 21 Bone: Prefix 
34 Astronomical 24 Teatro Costanzi periodspremiere of 38 "The Lonely 1900 Goatherd" 25 It may scan performers, e.g. 
26 close 

38 Very light 
second 41 Comparatively
E 21 Puerto Rico's crude
---.:...i..;:::....=..i.;:..'-=-'i..::.J chief port --1--1i---.i---.~ 30 Like venture 

43 Big name in L E D E capital video games A D E R investments 46 Kind of spray 
Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 
48 Groovy? 54 Physics opening 49 Accouter anew 55 Emblems of so Vinegar: Prefix power s1 Some are made 
of bars 56 Unless, in law 
52 Capture, in a sa Place for a way bump 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
HOROSCOPE 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 1999 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Karl Lagerfeld, Amy Irving,Jose Feliciano, Miranda Wilson, Roger Maris 
Happy Birthday: It's time to take note of what you will need to move to a higher playing field. Wipe your slate clean and prepare to undertake new methods of doing things. You will stagnate if you refuse to update in every way possible this year. This is not the year to deny yourself when it comes to learning, expanding or developing. Your numbers: 4, 9, 15, 21, 34, 45 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Romantic connections can be made if you get out with friends or relatives. You can be sure that you will attract lovers with your outgoing, daredevil nature. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You will be able to help family members solve their problems. Don't over­spend on luxury items or club fees. Get into projects that will give you a creative outlet. 00000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You'll have a temper tantrum if you let your emotional attitude be affected by criti­cism. Be careful not to force your opinions on others. Think before you say something you'II regret. 00 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Put yol.1/' time into things that will make your surroundings nicer. You will enjoy time spent with youngsters. Don't let your mate put you down. If you are happy with yourself, that's what counts. 0000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Make plans to get together with friends or al least phone them to catch up on all the latest happenings in their lives. Talk about commitments with the one you love; it could lead to the stability 
Birthday Baby: Recognize your talents, and you will go far. Deny yourself what you need to experience, and you will fall short of your life goals. Let your creative talents develop, and keep your mind open and receptive. 
(Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com, eugenialaslcom, astromate.com.) e 1999 Universal Press Syndicate ­
EUGENIA LAST  
you seek. 000 VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Resi­dential changes are necessary. Let go of the past and get ready to make the personal changes that are long over­due. Your creative talent should be developed through art-related cours­es. 000 LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You need to break away. Time spent with friends or traveling will be far more to your liking. You mustn't let those you live with put you down because you have different interests. 000 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You can help others by offering them good advice concerning budgets and ways of reducing your overhead. Your knack for solving other people's prob­lems will be appreciated. 0000 SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You should be spending time trying to meet and mingle with individuals who can provide you with informa­tion and mental stimulation. Don't settle for anything less than what you want.00 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You'll be drawn to/our work. If it will put your min at ease, by all means put in the time, but don't for­get about the one who loves you. Neglect will come back to haunt you. 00000 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You need to do things that will be interest­ing for people all ages. You can help youngsters if you take the time to lis­ten to their problems. 000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't expect your family to understand. follow your heart and don't worry about what others think. Don't expect to get backing from others. You're on your own, and you can succeed by yourself. 000  -- 

FOURTH AND INCHES 
'{f"\-1·Tl.I.." t,\/t=: ~ \JHOt'PE~ '\i,111'\t (.141:. ESE. A1-lO >. 
/'\E.lllUM "01U~V."'l"o 6C> ,PLEbE. 
Fox TROT (DILBERT HAs Movrn ro THE v1EwP01Nr PAGES.) 
TouR TEACHER CALLED ToOAY, 
J'ASoN. 

'1~; 
OH? 

.-------------­
iSHE SA'l'S 'l'ou\tE SEEN SHE SA'l'S SHE OOEStfT HI01!11G MAGA'Z.1IIIES IN l<HoW WHAT To Oo ~ 'fovR TEXTSool<S AND wr!l-1 'You. Ii: 
li!EA.D1NG THEM DURING, , I 
CLA'SS HovRS. s 
\ 
'1~_! 
~'7
l'.:si/) 
TOM KEELEY 

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD JEFF BEAM 
BILL AMEND 

ONE I0EA WAS THE 
Tb LET YO\J AMER1cAN GUEST· LEcTuRE. joURIIIAL ' oF PHYSICS 
,. 
ISN'T REi\LLY 
A "MA&A?u~(· 
-
QY "T\iE WA"r. 
I 

Hesburgh near-misses. 
baam.1@nd.edu 



"r--"'~-__,..,....
•-•--------------------=------------------•--•-"'"•'"'w-•=--------•----..,,,_----~-­

-

PORTS 
O
THE 

Ready to Run 
Erin Luby and the Irish men ·s and women ·s cross country teams open their season tomorrow at the Valparaiso 
Invitational. 
page 21 

page 24 BSERVER 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Irish hit the road to kick Panthers 
. Gerrick, Short, Rafael Garcia earn Big East honors 
By KERRY SMITH

-Sporr< Writer 
The Irish men's soccer team hopes to puL another notch in the win wl­umn as it hits the road to take on the Pittsburgh Panthers Saturday. 
Just days after losing o tough match to Western Michigan in over­time, the squad will look to get back on the winning track. Notre Dame opened its season with two wins before dropping to 2-1 on Tuesday. 
Despite coming up short against Western Michigan, the team has reg­istered some success in the past week. 
Senior captain and goal keeper Gerick Short and freshman forward Rafael Garcia earned weekly Big East soccer honors for their performances in Notre Dame's two wins over Northwestern and Boston College. 
The two were instrumental in both shut-out victories. Gerick shared 
-
goalkeeper of the week honors with Rutgers' Jon Conway, while Garcia was named rookie of the week. 
'Tm happy about it," said Garcia of the honor. "But it's just a small step toward a big season for the team. It means nothing compared to what I want the team to do in the Big East and the rest of the season . " 
The team broke into the National Soccer Coaches Association of America ranks for the first time this week at the No. 16 spot. The Irish hope to move up in the polls by securing a win against the Panthers. 
A Big East rival, Pittsburgh is com­ing off a disappointing 6-9-3 1998 campaign in which it managed to pull off only one Big East conference win. Plagued by several overtime losses last year, the Panthers will focus, on creating more winning opportunities this season. 
Pittsburgh lost its two leading scor­ers to graduation, but hopes to replace them with forwards Chad 
see SOCCER/page 22 
FOOTBALL

-

Friday, September l 0, 1999 
WOMEN'S 'SOCCER 

Astroturf challenges Notre Dame 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Associare Spons Editor 

The biggest challenge racing the Notre Dame women's soccer team this weekend is not the St. John's Red Storm or the long road trip to New York. 
It's the Astroturf on DaSilvia Memona Field. 
"Playing on Astroturf is a whole different game," head coach Randy Waldrum said. "The game is going to be a 


lot faster. The quality Waldrum of the turf there isn't very good, and there is a bit of a crown to the field. 
"All of those things will come into play," he continued. "I am not a real big fan of playing soccer games on Astroturf'. I don't think it is very conducive to our sport at all." 
The Astroturf will pose bigger challenges than just a faster style of play. With Irish junior captain Kelly Lindsey still suffering from a sprained knee, Waldrum is con­cerned about letting her play on the Astroturf, which is less forgiving than nat­ural grass and tends to aggravate injuries. 
He said he would prefer to hold her out and let her rest for stronger future oppo­nents. 
Lindsey, however, is not the kind of play­er who likes missing games. 
"She's the kind of player that wants to play," Waldrum said. "It might be that we get her some minutes to begin with and then get her off." 
Injured reserve 

Lindsey is not the only Irish player who is fighting through an injury. Ali Lovelace, a freshman midfielder from Dallas, Ga., has a quad pull and will not play against St. John's. 
see IRISH/page 22 
Notre Dame brings new style football to East 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Associate Sports Editor 
When most people consider Notre Dame football, they don't usually think ofhigh flying aerial attacks that spread the defense and awe opposing coaches. 
Modern Notre Dame football is running the ball straight ahead and grinding an opponent into the ground with powerful backs. 

When Notre Dame defeated Army 35-13 on Nov. 1, 1913, however, head coach Jesse Harper showcased a deep pass­ing attack and All-American quarterback Gus Dorais. 
After the game, the press was full of praise for Harper's squad and his revolutionary style of play. 
"Coach Harper undoubtedly has put together the best 11 which ever wore the Gold and Blue," Lamber G. Sullivan wrote in the Nov. 2 edition of the Chicago Daily News. "The team is almost perfect in every detail of technical play." 
Dornis orchestrated a passing attack that kepL the Army defense on its heels and prevent­ed the Cadets from crowding the line. Dorais finished the day 12­14 for 243 yards with two touch­down passes and only one inter­ception. 

'Inventing' the forward pass 
It has been said that Dorais and then-Irish captain Knute Rockne, a left end, invented the forward pass for the game against Army. The pass, howev­er, was not created in 1913; it had been around since 1906 when St. Louis University head coach Eddie Cochems began using it. 
Jn fact, the forward pass previ­ously had been utilized by Notre invent the forward pass. They instead showed how it could be used by a smaller team to coun­teract the size advantage of its opponent. 
Dame  to  defeat Michigan in  
1909.  
Dorais  and  Rockne  didn't  

Harper created plans for for­ward pass use while head coach at Wabash, but it was not until 
see FOOTBALL/page 15 
at St. John's ar Purdue Volleyball at Ohio Western

-Wjl 
Sunday, 1 p.m. 

Samrday, 2:30 p.m. 
Today, 3:30 p.m. 

SPORTS flJ 
ATA • 
Volleyball vs. Kentucky Cross Country at Valparaiso 
at Pittsburgh ~ Saturday, l p.m. Saturday, 2 p.m. Saturday, 10 a.m 
GLANCE 


NSIDER 
O
THE 

Friday, September I 0, 1999 BSERVER Notre Dame ac Purdue 

Photo Art by JOHN DAIL Yfrhe Observer 
In his first year as a starter, sophomore tailback Tony Fisher has showcased his receiving and running talents to become the featured back In the Irish offense. His talents give offensive coordinator Kevin Rogers one more weapon for his playbook. For more on Fisher, see page 3. 
---~~-=-=-=------------------------------------------------------------------------­
TV BROADCASTINSIDE 

game preview........... ...page 2 
home: 1-0 home: u-o
vs. 

away; 0-1 away: 1-0 college games today... ..page 6 
locus on Purdue.......... ..page 5 

gametime: 2:30 p.m. ND lime station: ABC-WBND

pregame commentary....page 7 
Channel 58 


page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 10, 1999 
Irish look to take steam out of Boilers
game hype 


Domino's Delivery 271-0300 
® 

Welcome Back Stl,\dents! 
Store Hours: Sunday .. Thursday 
Receive a FREE 

11 am-2am 
Marker Board with 
any purchase while

Friday & Saturday 
11 am -3 am 
supplies last 



Davie and the coaching staff have spPnt the wPek focusing on the Trish, rather than the Boilermakers. 
"As much as I respect Purdue and th{" challengfl we have with going down there and playing, I am much more concerned, right no,v, much more interested, in our foot­ball team and the progress we make," Davie said. "That is the challenge we have." 
The Irish, however, are con­cerned with stopping Heisman-hopeful, quarter­back Drew Brees. 
"Obviously you have to con­trol the football, to try to keep them off the field with their offense," Davie said. "But they are such a quick strike offense that they are going to score points, so you can't just button it up and say you are going to just run the football in there. 
"You are going to have to create some plays to score some points. Because even though you control the ball and take away from their time at possession, they are going to score some points because it is a quick strike offense," he said. 
The Irish have put up big numbers on offense so far this season. Quarterback Jarious Jackson threw for 302 yards against Michigan and the Irish rushed for 363 yards in the season opener with Kansas. know what we're going to do 
"It's definitely going to be a on offense. It's no secret any­hard game," Davie said. more, so we're going to have "They're going to look at the to play hard. It's not going to 
Michigan tape and the J,(ansas be a walk-over game." tape, and they pretty much Notre Dame hopes to keep control of the Shillelagh Trophy, awarded to the win­ner of each Notre Dame­Purdue match-up, The Irish hold a 46-22-2 all-time record against the Boilermakers. 

"There is not a football coach in the country that would relish 
going to West Bob Davie Lafayette" head coach 
"Our biggest problem r(qht now is ourselves" 

Kevin Rogers offensive coordinator 


"My goal is to get at least two interceptions this week.,, 
Clifford Jefferson cornerback 
"/ definitely think this team will bounce back.,, 


By BRIAN KESSLER Spotts Editor 
Notre Dame invades West Lafayette, Ind., to take on Purdue, Saturday, with hopes of rebounding from last weAk­end's disappointing loss to Michigan. 
"I think our players enjoy the challenge, but there is no question that we need to cor­rect mistakes," head coach Bob Davie said. "We have got to eliminate the sloppiness. 
"We cannot pitch the ball on the ground," he explained. "We have had seven turnovers. We are fortunate it isn't in double digits the way we have pitched the ball. We need to improve and I think we can do that." 
The Boilermakers are unbeaten in their last seven games, and Purdue is expect­e-d to try to avenge last year's fourth-quarter loss to Notre Dame. 
"1 think everybody realizes that they have done a great _job with that program," Davie said. "You look at what they haVfl done, I think 11 and 1 at home since Joe Tiller has been the head coach, you just look -they have won seven straight games; won two Bowl games against two really good teams. 
"They are an aggressive style team," Davie continued. "So we have got our work cut out for us. It will be a chal­lenge going down there play­ing -once again playing away from home." 
Friday, St:ptemb..:r 10, 1999 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Fisher adds new options to offense 
. Ohio's 1997 Mr. Football has found a home in Indiana and Notre Dame's backfield 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Ass"ciarc Sp"rts hlitor 
If Ohio Statn head coach .John Coopi•r hat1•s Notre Dame lwcausp of il.s TV agnwment with NBC. sophomorfl tailback Tony 1-'islwr could bn the ma­son why. 
Fblwr, who was nam11<l Mr. Football in Ohio his senior yPar, said that sePing Notre llanw on TV every week playml a big part in his decision to w1•ar tlw bhH1 and gold rather than tlw scarlnt and g-ray 
"Notrn Damn was like a dr1·am !"or 111n since I was growing up," Im said. "That was all vou saw on TV was NoLrn l>a1n11 football. Coming to Notrn Damn was an opportuni­ty to make a dream into a real­ity." 
llailing from I•:uclid lligh Sc-11001 in Fuclid. Ohio, it was assunwd LhaL tlrn high school that produrml fornrnr Buckeye slars Holwrt Smith and Pepe 1'1•,trso11 ,vould also s1\11d Fisher to Ohio State. 
Many prnipll~ put prnssurc on Fish1•r to stay in statP and play l'or tlw BuekPyns. 
"TlwrP was a grnat deal of pri!ssure considering that Bolwrl Smith was the u11ly 

"Notre Dame gave me the carries and
two-limP Mr. 
gaining 75
1:ootball in opportunity lo do 
yards as a
Ohio," Fislwr 
something dijJerent. Most freshman wait­
said. "Plus 
running backs and ing behind
sine<! hn and 
Autry Denson
1'1qiP both players from my high 
in the depth
wnnt them it 
school went lo Ohio Stale. 
chart, Fisher 
was as if 
Coming to Notre Dame entered this
Ohio State 
year as a co­
offered nm a gave me the chance lo do 
starter with
scholarship something for myself." 
junior tailback
when I was a 
Tony Driver.
sophomorn. I 
Tony Fisher Playing
folt a lot of 
behind Denson
pressure to tailback 
go down 
thnrn." 
Fisher, however, wanted to make a name for himself and not follow in the footsteps of previous stars. 
"Notre Dame gave me the opportunity to do something dif­f<•nmt." he said. "Most running backs and players from my high school went to Ohio State. Coming to Notrn Damn gave me llm chance to do something f'or mysnlf." 
Despite all the prnssure from Ohio Slat!' fans and Euclid's tra­dition or sending it.s stars to Ohio State, Fisher chose Notre Damn in the encl. 
"I was scarnd that if' I didn't go to Ohio State a lot of people would lllrn on nw," Fisher said. "But coming down to crunch timP, sonrnthing in my mind told rnn to go to Notre Damn." 
Against Michigan last Salurclay, Fislwr again l'ound himsdf' in "crunch timn." In the fourth quartnr, Fisher was on the field for Pvery critical offm1­

Tony Fisher 
position: tailback year: sophomore 
awards: 1997 USA Today Play('r ofthe Year in Ohio: 
voted Mr. Football ;n '97 in Ohio, rated 69th-best 
player in the country by the Chicago Sun-Times notables: leads team in all purpose yards (237); had a 40-yard run and a 47-yard 
catch against Michigan in 1 999: rushed for 111 yards and two touchdowns on 13 carries in his first collegiate start 
sive play. Fisher said he was honored lo be on Lhc field for those key plays. 
"It was pretty much of a privi­lege," Im said. "Luckily the coaches have confidence to k11cp nm in the game when it was crunch time. So I think it was a big conlidonce booster for lllP~" 
Fislmr has come a long way in tlrn spring and the summer to rPach the point where he is now. After get­ting only 18 
helped him 
become a better 
back, according 
to Fisher. "It helped me out a great Driver," Davie said. "But it is 
deal," Fisher said. "I got the still dose." 
opportunity to watch Notre 
The competition with Driver 
Dame's all-time leading rusher. 
has improved both backs' game,
When I would get into the 
according to Fisher. 
game, Autry would tell me to 
"I think it is 
just be relaxed. Now out here in making us both a practice and in the games, I am better player," he 
just trying to keep that same said. "We know 
kind of' focus." 
what we got to do 
That focus allowed him to since we are 
slightly separate himself from 
going out there 
Driver in the eyes of the coach­everyday and es to become the more featured 
competing in 
back in thn Irish ofl'ensn. 
practice."
Despite Fisher's emergence as a 
The competi­
solid tailback, head coach Bob 
tion for playing
Davie said that the comp11tition 
first start with 111 yards rush­ing and two touchdowns. Fisher's runs came despite some poor blocking, according 
to Davie. 
"He made some ofthose runs by himself" 
Bob Davie 

"I Fisher I made some of those runs by himself," Davie said after the Kansas 
on Fisher's runs against Kailsas game. "I 
time was 

don't think 
we blocked 
anyone on a few of those runs." 
Against the Wolverines, the Irish used Fisher to showcaso a nAw offensive wrinkle. The tail­back caught two passfls for 51 yards, including a 47-yard catch that set up an Irish touchdown. Fisher said that he has always been a good receiver. 
''I started off playing rnceiv<~r when I startnd playing football," Im said. "And I guess coach Hogers noticed that I could catch so he put me in the olfon­sivc passing package." 
Fisher's receiving threat makes the Irish offense more dangerous, according to Davin. 
"Ono thing you have seen in collegn football right now is that you can give diversity by forma­tion without substituting," he said. "Bncauso ii' you substitute to get diversity, the dcfonse sub­stitutes and they can match up with nickr,I and dimo playPrs in the game. If' you can bn a two• back team and then line up in a one-back sot, that causr,s prob­lmns f'or the defense bccausn thoy have a linebacker match­ing up with a running back." 
Fislwr will look to add .to his tnam-lnading 237 yards of' total offense this Saturday against Purduo in West Lat'aynttP. 
for playing time is f'ar f'rom over. 
"Tony Fisher, right now, as far as lhe different dimensions he brings with pass receiving, protection -all the things we ask a tailback to do -is proba­bly a litlle more solid than Tony extremely close going into the Kansas game but Fisher was given the starting nod against the Jayhawks. He rotated every possession with Driver but dis­tinguished himself with a 46 yard touchdown run in the fourth quarter to give the Irish a 41-13 !Pad. Fisher linishnd his 
birthdate: Oct. 12, 1979 best moment at Notre Dame off chose Notre Dame over: Ohio 
hometown: Euclid, Ohio the field: meeting State, Michigan dimensions: 6-foot-1, 205 Holly Martin Stale. West Virginia. pounds best moment on the Notre Dame Syracuse 
up close & 
personal 
favorite class at Notre Dame: field: 47-yard touch­favorite stadium 10 play in other ps!Jchology down run a,qainsl than Notre Dame WITH TONY FISHER word to describe him on the Kansas in 1999 Eddie stadium: Ohio field: emolional Robinson Classic Stadium 
page4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 10, 1999 
1999 BOILERMAKERS1999 FIGHTING IRISH IN POSITION: the defensive secondary 

ScheduleSchedule 
Sept 4 at Central Florida 47-13

Aug.28 KANSAS W48-13 
S.ept. 11 NOTRE DAME

Sept. 4 at Michigan L26-22 
Sept. 18 CENTRAL MICHIGAN

Sept. 11 at Purdue 
Sept. 25 NORTHWESTERN

Spel. 18 MICHIGAN STATE 
Oct. 2 at Michigan

Oct. 2 OKLAHOMA 
Oct. 9 at Ohio State

Oct. 9 ARIZONA STATE 
Oct. 16 MICHIGAN STATE

Oct. 16 USC 
Oct. 23 PENN STATE

Oct. 30 NAVY 
Oct. 30 at Minnesota

Nov.6 at Tennessee 
Nov. 6 WISCONSIN

Nov. 13 at Pittsburgh 
Nov. 20 at Indiana

Nov. 20 BOSTON COLLEGE 
Nov.27 at Stanford third season at 
third season at 
PurdueNotre Dame 
career record:career record: 
17-10 
58-37-1 
at Purdue:at Notre Dame: 
17-10 
1 9-7 
against Notreagainst Purdue: Dame: 1-1
I·I 
RosterRoster 

No, Name Pos. Ht, Wt. YR
Observer Staff Report 
veterans, as well as a strong crop of

:\Jo. Name Pos. Ht. Wt. YR 2 Tim Olmstead LB 6-3 245 FR 
I Deke Cooper FS 6-2 220 SR 2 Scott Kur, K/P 6-1 192 so
freshman. Head coach Bob Davie will go

2 Carlus Pierre~J\ntoinL· ILB 6-3 245 so 3 Cliff Jackson WR 5-10 184 SR
The Notre Dame secondary will have with a secondary-by-committee game
3 An:iaz Battle QB 6-1 215 so 4 Mike Rose LB 6-1 206 SR 
4 Jamaar Taylor WR 6-0 200 FR 
its hands full this weekend as it tries to plan in order to give Brees different 
5 James Dunnigan CB 5-9 180 FR 
5 A'Jani Sanders FS 5-10 197 SR 6 Larry Shyne WR 5-11 170 JR
hold Drew Brees and the Boilermakers looks and to keep the secondary rested. 
6 David Givens SE 6-1 217 so 6 Carl Buergler DB 6-0 197 so
passing attack at bay. Freshman Albert Poree and Gerome
7 Jarious Jackson QB 6-1 228 SR 7 Adrian Beasley ss 6-0 200 SR 
8 Eric Chappell QB 6-4 226 SR 8 Ralph Turner DB 6-1 207 FR
The Irish secondary features several Sal?p are expected to see playing time. 
8 Anthony Brannan OLB 5--10 215 SR 9 Robert Tolbert WR 6-1 194 SR 
9 Raki Nelson Fl 5-11 180 SR 10 David Edgerton QB 6·2 213 JR 
y Dwayne Francis DB 6-0 189 so 11 Michael Hawthorne CB 6-3 196 SR 
JO Deveron Harper CB 5-11 187 SR 12 MikeSegard QB 6-4 220 FR 
11 Jay Johnson SE 6-0 191 SR 13 Akin Ayodele DE/LB 6-3 244 so
DEPTH CHARTS
12 Tony Fisher RB 6-2 225 so 14 Vinny Sutherland WR 5-10 185 JR 
13 Nick Setta K/P 6-0 160 FR 

15 Drew Brees QB 6-1 220 JR. 
14 James Caputo P 6-1 193 SR 16 Ryan Breska QB 6-3 195 FR 
14 Dan Novakov QB 6-3 210 FR 17 Ben Smith ss 6-3 203 so 
15 Clifford Jefferson CB 5--9 182 so 18 Keith Dawson WR 6-5 200 so 
16 Glenn Earl DB 6-1 185 FR 18 Jon Getz DB 6-2 189 so 
16 John Shingler TE 6-2 252 SR 19 R'Kes Starling CB 5-8 178 so 
17 Joey Hildbold P/K 5--11 175 FR 20 Chris Daniels WR 6-3 219 SR 
17 Jeremy Juarez FB 5-11 250 JR. 
21 Antoine Neal DB 5-10 198 JR 
18 Joey Getherall FL 5--7 176 JR 22 Lamar Conrad DB 5--10 199 SR 
IY Jim Sanson K 5-9 187 SR 22 Brandon Robinson RB 5-9 175 FR 
20 Gerome Sapp DB 6-0 210 FR 23 Chris Clopton DB 5-6 156 JR 
21 Javin Hunter FL 6-0 185 so 24 Dondre Johnson RB 6-0 215 so 
22 Julius Jones RB 5-11 185 FR 25 Donald Winston WR 5--7 158 SR 
23 Chris Yura RB /DB 5-11 195 FR 26 Danny Rogers p 5--10 204 SR 
24 Albery Poree DB 5-10 185 FR 27 Daveon Walker WR 5-10 165 FR 
25 Tony Driver TB &-1 217 JR 27 Jacob Rowe LB 5--9 214 FR 
26 Lee 'i.afayette CB 5-9 1% SR 28 Chris James WE 5--10 170 FR 
27 Jason Beckstrom DB 5--10 185 FR 29 Montrell Lowe RB 5--9 182 FR 
28 Donald Dykes SS 5-11 197 so 30 Travis Dorsch K 6-6 214 so 
28 Mike Grady FS 5-11 200 SR 31 Ashante Woodyard CB 6-2 200 JR 
29 Justin Smith FS 5--11 190 JR 31 Joe Williams WR 6-2 206 FR 
30 Rocky Buiman OLB 6-4 245 so 32 Alan Ganaway DB 6-1 186 FR 
32 Terrance Howard TB 6-1 193 so 33 Jared Curtis DB 5-10 165 FR 
33 Courtney Watson RB 6-2 205 FR 34 J. Crabtree RB 5-9 206 SR 
34 Ronnie Nicks !LB 6-0 240 SR 35 Marcus Hill OB 5--9 165 FR 
35 David Miller K-P 5--11 190 so 35 fascint Vukelich PB 6-0 224 so 
35 Tim O'Neill TB 5-5 163 so 36 Sedrick Brown RB 6-1 234 so 
36 Tom Lopienski FB 6-1 259 so 37 Bryan Jacquay DB 5--7 171 JR ·37 Ron Israel SS 6-0 205 JR 38 Brady Doe WR 6-0 191 so 
39 Anthony Denman !LB 6-2 230 JR 39 Cornell Middlebrook LB 6-2 229 FR 
39 Chris leek SS 5-9 192 SR 40 Willie Fells LB 6-1 225 SR 
40 Jason Murray FB 6-1 26 . JR 41 Alex Tone LB 5-10 211 so 
40 Brendan Farrell !LB 5-9 232 SR 42 Brent Botts DT 6-3 257 JR 
41 Joe Ferrer OLB 6-2 235 SR 44 Steve Ennis RB 6-0 215 FR 
42 Shane Waltim CB 5-11 185 so 45 Melvin Scurry LB/DB 6-3 205 FR 
44 Grant Irons DE 6-5 272 JR 46 Tom Vaughan DB 6-0 187 JR 
45 Joey Goodspeed FB 6-0 250 SR 47 Landon Johnson LB 6-3 195 FR 
46 Andrew Dempsey TE/ DE 6-2 252 JR 48 Tim Upshur LB 6·1 210 so 
47 Mike McNair FB 6-0 242 so 49 Mike Decker LB 6-3 224 FR 
48 Johnathan Hebert SE 5-11 199 SR 50 Brian Dinkins DE 6-1 262 JR 
50 Cedric Hilliard DL 6-3 295 FR 51 Joe Odom LB 6-2 222 FR 
51 Tyreo Harrison !LB 6-2 235 so 52 Max Miller DE 6-2 249 FR 
52 Jeff Faine OL 6-3 310 FR 53 Shaun Phillips TE/DE 6-3 225 FR 53 Lamont Bryant DE 6-3 265 SR 54 Rob Turner OL 6-4 286 FR 
54 B.J. Scott C 6-3 285 SR 55 Ian .!\lien OT 6-4 289 JR 
55 Jim Jones 0G 6-3 307 SR 55 Eric Reynolds LB 6-3 202 so 
56 Pat Ryan LB 6-3 220 FR 56 Chukky Okobi 0G 6-2 323 JR 
56 John Crowther LS 6-2 245 so 57 Ray Lee LB 6·1 239 SR 
57 Justin Thomas LB 6-2 230 FR 58 Warren Moore DE 6-2 260 JR 
57 Luigi Rao LB 5-10 208 JR 59 John Duggan DE 6·5 255 FR 
58 Brendan O'Connor 0G 6-2 292 JR 60 Andy Standifer LS 6-0 214 JR 
60 Darrell Campbell DL 6-4 245 so 61 Dustin Clayton OL 6-3 280 FR 
61 Mike Zelenka FB 6-0 218 JR 62 Vedran Dzolov:ic DE 6-3 220 FR 
62 Casev Robin OT 6-7 311 JR 63 Jim Niedraeh C 6-3 280 SR 
63 Bren~an Curtin OL 6-8 295 FR 64 Seth Morris OL 6-9 319 FR 
63 Mike Tribe lLB 5-10 220 JR 66 Brian Koppen ex; 6-7 322 so 
64 John Mcrandi C 6-3 300 SR 67 Kevin Nesfield DE 6-3 215 FR 
65 Sean Milligan OJ. 6-4 285 FR 68 Kelly Kitchel OL 6-7 284 FR 
66 JW Jordan C 6-1 277 JR 70 SeanRufolo C 6-2 272 so 
67 Rynn Gilils OL 6-3 31'; FR 72 Josh Kirkpatric-k C 6-1 268 so 68 Matt Brennan OT 6-6 305 SR 74 Jason Eisele OL · 6-4 250 FR 
69 Mike Gandy OC 6-4 292 SR 75 Aaron Starnes 0G 6-4 301 SR 
70 Jim Molinaro DL 6-7 240 FR 76 Joe Webster OL 6-6 329 FR 
71 Neil Ambron OL 6-7 275 FR 77 Brandon Gorin OT 6-6 287 JR 
72 Ryan Scarola QL 6-5 303 so 78 Matt Light OT 6-5 288 JR 
74 Rob Mowl 0C 6-5 295 SR 79 Gene Mruczkowski OL 6-3 296 FR 
75 Kurt Voller:; OT 6-7 299 JR 80 A.T. Simpson SO 6-5 217 WR 
76 John Teasdale OT 6-6 306 JR 81 Chris Randolph lE 6-4 250 so 77 llrad Williams DT 6-4 288 SR 82 David Nugent DT 6-5 296 SR 78 Jorddl1 B!dck OT o-6 313 so 83 Seth Morales WR 6-0 170 so 
79 Sean Mahan OT. 6-4 285 so 84 Randall Lane WR 6--1 210 SR 
80 Gary Godsey TE o-7 255 FR 85 Doyal Butler TE 6-3 235 FR 
83 Patrkk Reynolds WR 5-11 184 so 86 Asa Slaughter WR 6-0 223 FR 
84 John Owens TE 6-3 246 PR 87 Rocco foggio DT 6-4 276 JR 
R5 Antwon Jones DT 6-2 283 SR 88 Jason lorzel LB 6-3 220 so 
85 Mark Rule WR/QB o-2 218 SR 89 Tim Stratton TE 6-4 241 so 
86 Dan O'Leary TE 6--4 260 SR 
90 Derrick Williams DT 6-4 292 JR 
87 /abari Holloway TE 6-4 260 JR 91 Nick Mangosing TE 6-5 265 FR 
88 Bobby Brnwn FL 6-2 193 SR 92 Craig Terrill DE 6-4 262 FR 
89 Gerald Morgan TE 6-4 261 so 93 Pete Lougheed TE 6-5 255 FR 90 Lance Legree DT 6-1 2% SR 
.94 Luke Burroughs DE 6-4 223 FR 
91 N. VanHook-Drucker DE 6-2 271 SR 95 Jody Goatley TE 6-3 257 JR 94 Andv Wisne DT 6-3 270 JR 96 Daemeon Grier DT 6-2 315 FR 
95 Rvan Roberts DE 6-2 260 so 97 Jon Holloway DT 6-4 295 JR 98 Anthony Weaver DT 6-3 270 so 98 MattMitrionc DT 6-3 286 so 
98 Eric Glass DT 6-4 252 SR 99 Kurt Davies DE 6-3 256 JR 99 Jason Ching DE 6-3 267 SR 99 Joseph Blake TE 6-2 210 so 



Friday, September l 0, 1999 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 5 
EYE ON THE ENEMY 
Boilermaker quarterback could burn Irish 
By TIM CASEY 
Sports Writer 
I lc's tho rnigning Big Ten Co­ofl'nnsivu l'laynr of thn Year. Alon~ tho way. he set Big Ten marks for touchdowns. yards passing, total of'fonse, complo­lions and attompts in a singlo sllason. I le has already t>qualed the numh,•r of touchdown pass­es that Notrn Dame's all-lime lc•iHlcr, Hon l'uwlus, achieved in four years. Orw more thing: hn's started 14 ganws in his l'ill'(\Cr. 
No wonrfor Irish lrnad couch Bob l>avi11 and his staff arc1 con­cnrrrnd with l>rnw Brnes. 
"Wlrnn you look at Purdue, you always start with their olfonsci first bncause they do a trnnwndous job," said Davie at TLwsclay's prnss conforenc<~. "It starts with llrn quarterback. The thing about Drew Brees to nm is his comp,~titivcncss and how mohiln ho is; how many plays lw makes throwing the ball on the run. lie has got a good pr11st•ncc." 
"Wlrnn he scrambles outside or thn pocket. lw is rnally dan­gerous," said coruerback Clifford JP-fferson. "Ill' can scramble and find receivers wide open. That can really hurt us in a game if we let that hap­pen." 
From his first game as a starter a year ago, Brees has bmm on a tear. In last season's opener at USC, Brees throw the ball 52 limes. Brnes throw over 40 passes seven times last year, inducting an NC!\!\ record 83 attempts against Wisconsin. 
After leading Westlake lligh to a cumulative 28-0-1 record in his last two yoars, Brees was shunned by the nH\jor schools, including both Texas and Texas A&M. They feared an ACL injury ho suffered as a junior may have an impact in college. Some coaches thought at 6­f'oot-1 that he was too small for major Division 1-A football. Brees chose Purdue over Kentucky, where Tim Couch served as his host. 
"lie was somewhat of a leg­endary high school quartnrback in the state uf Texas," said Davie. "/\s far as arc situation here at Notre Dame I don't know if he was over brought to our attention directly or if we P-valuatt'd him. But we're not alone in schools that didn't recruit him but wished they did." 
A preseason Heisman favorite, Bre-es helped his cause in last week's 47-13 opening season victory at Central Florida. The junior completed over 60 porcent of his attempts for 273 yards and four touch• down strikes. 
Michigan State coach Nick Saban played against Purdue and Brees last year. In a rea­turod article in Sports Illustrated on Brees, Saban compares him to a famous Irish alum. · 
"Brees reminds mo of' Joe Montana," Saban told SL "He makes you feel that, play after play, you're about to do some­thing big against him. and then he does something big against you. It's incredibly frustrating for a coach or a team." 
Purdue's passing attack will test the young Notre Dame sec­ondary. Thus far this year, the Irish defensive backs have allowed 386 total yards through the air. 

. Location: West Lafayette, Ind. 
. Enrollment: 36,878
fast facts 
. 
Colors: Old Gold and Black 

. 
Nickname: Boilermakers


ABOUT 

. Conference: Big Ten
PURDUE 
. Fight Song: "Hail Purdue" 
. Notre Dame and Purdue have met for 54 straight years -lied with USC for the lrish's second longest 
... 

rivalry-behind only Navy. 
. Irish have outscored Boilermakers 222-107 since 1992. 
PURDUE LAST WEEK 
Brees passes for 273 in win over Central Florida 
By FRED GOODALL 
Associarcd l'ress 
ORIANDO, Fla. 

Drnw Brees and No. 22 Purdue gave Central Horida a taste or how tough life without Daunt<1 Culpeppm could be. 
Brnes threw for 273 yards and four touchdowns Saturday night as the Boilnrmakers matched their longest win­ning streak in 20 years with a season­opening 47-13 rout. 
The victory was the seventh straight for Purdue. The Boilermakers won six in a row each of the past two seasons, but hadn't won seven consecutive since 1979. 
Brees took up where he left off in a record-breaking sophomore year with TD passes of 27 yards to Chris Daniels, 18 to Tim Stratton, 2 to Handal! Lane and 22 to Vinny Sutherland. 

"I felt really comfortable out there. There was no time when I felt pressure," Brees said. "Overall, you can play a lot better. But we did score 44 (actually 47) points. 
Safety Adrian Beasley set up touch­downs with two of Purdue's four inter­ceptions off Vic Penn, a junior college transfer making his debut as Culpepper's successor for Central Plorida. 
Mike Rose scored on a 25-yard inter­ception return. The Boilermakers also got a TD pass from kicker Travis Dorsch, who threvv to Chris Handolph after his 22-yard field goal attempt was blocked in the third quarter. 
. "We were just too inconsistent to move the football. We couldn't protect. We dropped a few passes, which I didn't think we would do," Central Florida coach Mike Kruczek said. 
"I thought Victor played fairly well. considering the heat was on him. It's aggravating to play inconsistently the way we did. I'm not going to make excus­es." 
Central Florida increased its national profile the past l'our seasons with Culpepper, who was the 111.h pick in this voar's Nl•L draft. · Without him, it will be difficult to dupli­cate last year's 9-2 record. 
Ce-ntral Florida's September schedule is one of lhe toughest in the nation with all four opponents ranked in the Top 25. The Knights visit No. 4 Florida next week, then travel to No. 10 Georgia Tech and No. 12 Georgia. 
Penn, 24-of-45 for 250 yards and one touchdown, bngan his college career with South Carolina in 1997 before spending last season at Garden City, Kan. 

quarterback. 
"I didn't think we playnd well offonsive­ly, but we played solid dcf'ensively after the opening drive," Purdue coach .Joe Tiller said. 
Brees threw for 3,753 yards and 3(1 touchdowns a year ago, snUing school and Big Ten records l'or attempts, com­pletions, yards and TDs. 
The junior didn't have one of his morn productive games in Purdue's 35-7 rout of Central Florida in 1998, but moved tho ball almost at will in building a 23-6 half­time lead this time. 
Daniels scored late in llrn first quarter, taking a pass over the middle and using a burst of speed to fllude two defenders and a couple of nifty moves to gnt past two more would-be tacklnrs to gnt into the end zone. 
Brnes capped a 79-yard, second-quar­ter drive by finding Stratton itlonn on a play in which Cnntral Florida had 12 men on the field. While tlrn penalty was declined, the mistake was indicative of the kind of nrrors that hindered the ovor­matched Knights. "\ 
Central Florida marched 8:1 yards to open the game, laking Urn lead on Penn's 26-yard TD pass to Kenny Clark. Central Florida botchnd the extra point when Mike Iledge snapped tlrn ball over the heads of' the kicker and holder. 
Seven minutes later, tlrn Knights lined up to punt and lledgo snapped the ball through the end zone for a sal'nty. 
Purdue also blocknd a punt, and Cuntral Florida's Javinr B1mrlegui missnd a 40-yard field goal af'ler the Knights recovered a first-quarter fumbln at the Boilermakers 39. 
Brees, who's tied with .Jim Evnrett f'or 
Community College. third on Purdue's career TD pass list
Jarlous Jackson's ability to escape from opposing defenders could be ham­
Purdue sacked him four times and also with 43, complntnd 26 of 43 passes and
pered this Saturday by his toe Injury. The Irish quarterback suffered turf toe 
forced a fourth-quarter fumble by the was intercepted once.
against Michigan last Saturday. 
page 6 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 10, 1999 
Irish 
experts 

Brian Kessler sports editor 
(6-2) NOTRE DAME FLORIDA STATE 
Omo STATE 
GEORGIA 

Bill Hart associate editor 
(6-2) NOTRE DAME FLORIDA STATE 
OHIO STATE 
GEORGIA 

Mike Connolly associate editor 
(6-2) 
NOTRE DAME GEORGIA TECH Omo STATE GEORGIA 

Tim Casey football writer 
(5-3) 
NOTRE DAME FLORIDA STATE Omo STATE GEORGIA 

AROUND THE NATION 
ACC showdown highlights weekend 
. Joe Hamilton leads Yellow Jackets into Seminole country 
By BILL HART 
Associate Sporn Editor 
Georgia Tech will try to dethrone the top seat in the country this weekend when it heads to Tallahassee, Fla., to take on Florida State. History, however, is not on Tech's side: 40 straight teams have tried and failed to defeat the Florida State jug­gernaut at home, a streak that dates back to 199]. 
This doesn't mean that thA Hamblin' Wreck doesn't have a chance, though. Wilh a highly successful air offensive in quarterback Joe Hamilton and receivers Oez White and Joe Burns, the Jackets might be able to exploit FSU's greatAst weakness giving up big plays in tho passing game. This was illustrated best in last year's Fifista Bowl, whm1 Tennessee's Peerless Price caught passes of 76 and 79 yards en route to the national title. 
Still, Florida State does have history on its side, and the manpower to back it up. Top-ranked Florida State ·was eventually able to wear out Louisiana Tech, 41-7, mostly due to three touchdo"'ns caused by three Bulldog turnovers. 
Wide receiver Peter Warrick tore up the field in his usual fashion, going for 121 yards and one touchdown on nine catches. · Perhaps the most daunting stat facing Georgia Tech this week is that out of the eight ranked ACC teams ever to play in Tallahassee, only one team stayed within a touchdown of the home team. In fact, only five of those teams w~re even able to score. 
No. 14 UCLA at No. 13 Ohio State 
Two of the top programs in the Big Ten and Pac-10 collide in this all-star match up, which may have BCS implications by the end of the year. 
UCLA started its season on a positive note last weekend, in a 38-7 romp of Boise State. With the position vacuum caused by the departure of quarterback Cade McNown, it was the duo of Drew Bennett and Cory Paus that provided the offensive spark for the Bruins, completing a total of 20-for-34 for 248 yards and three interceptions. This 
ESPN/USA Today poll 
team  ..  r~r;Qrd  p-Oiilt$  
1  Florida St.  t•O  1,433  
2  Penn St.  2-0  1,406  
3  Tennessee  1-0  1,385  
4  Florida  1-0  1,223  
5  Michigan  1·0  1,207  
6  Nebraska  1,0  1,203  
1  TexasA&M  t,O  1,109  
8  Wisconsin  l-0 ·  1,038  
9  Miami, Fla.  2·0  1,002  
10  Georgia Tech  1-0  962  
11  Virginia Tech  1-0  830  
12  Georgia  1·0  807  
13  UCLA  1·0  672  
14  Obio St.  · 0,t  591  
15  Arizona  1~1•  491  
16  Purdue  1·0  464  
17  Arkansas  l·0  434  
18  Kansas St.  O·O  412  
19  Virginia  1·0  374  
20  use  1·0  333  
21  NOTRE·DAME  M  307  
22  Alabama  1·0  305  
23  Teias  'M  250  
24  NC Stale  2-0  175  
25  Arizona St.  O·O  133  

other teams receiving voles: Colorado SI. 
118, Marshall 94, Syracuse 75, Mississippi St. 36; Air Force 19, Miami, Oh 19, Colorado 18, So. Mississippi 16, West Virginia 15, Texas Tech 13 

weekend, however, it won't be injuries from last week that depletes the roster of the Pac­10 powerhouse. Supensions have rocked the Bruins. Eleven players were suspended last week in a handicapped-parking scam, which means that 14 players will start for only the second time in their college careers. 
As for Ohio State, a quick loss to No. 12 Miami (Fla.) in the Kickoff Classic marked • the first time head coach John Cooper has lost his opener in his 12 seasons in Columbus. Most of the blame for the loss is 
AP poll  
team  reootd  
1  Florida St  1·0  
2  Penq St.  2-0  
3  Tennessee  1·0  
4  Florida  1-0  
5  Nebraska  1-0  
6  Michigan  1-0  
7  TexasA&M  1·0  
8  Miami, Fla.  2-0  
9  Wisconsin  1-0  
10  Georgia Tech  1-0  
11  Virginia Tech  1-0  
12  Georgia  1·0  
13  Ohio St  0-1  
14  UCLA  1·0  
15  Arkansas·  1·0  
16  NOT!lEDAME  1·1  
17  Kansas SI.  0·0  
18  use  1-0  
19  Arizona  M  
20  Purdue  1-0  
21  Alabama  1-0  
22  Virginia  1-0  
23  NC State  2·0  
24  Colorado St.  1-0  
25  Arizona St  0-0  

p9ints 
1,698 1,691 1,631 1,446 1,402 1,394 1,371 1,258 1,183 1,091 1,025 974 786 719 
626 
573 526 
524 
517 
510 
434 314 209 
176 124 
other teams receiving votes: TeJtas 104, Marshall 98, BYU 83, Mississippi St. 59, Michigan Sl.43, Louisville 42, Syracuse 26, Colorado 25, Oklahoma SI. 8, LSU 6 

being centered around quarterback Steve Bellisari, whose two fumbles late in the game allowed the Hurricanes fo regain their momentum. After a 11-1 season marred only by a loss to the Spartans of Michigan State, the Buckeyes looked completely flat against the Hurricanes, with only 220 total yards for the game. In order to get back on track, some major offensive retooling will be needed. 
South Carolina at No. 12 Georgia 
The workload doesn't get any easier for 
head coach Lou Holtz, as he takes his 
Gamecocks into Athens, Ga. It will be the 
second-straight road match-up against a 
ranked opponent for South Carolina, follow­
ing a 10-0 loss to No. 24 North Carolina 
State in Holtz's coaching debut. 
Despite the lack of offense, the 
Gamecocks played a much better game 
than most critics expected. The game was 
held at 3-0 until late in the fourth quarter, 
when a blocked punt at the 5-yard line was 
returned by the Wolfpack for a touchdown. 
Look for running back Derek Watson to 
attempt to lead the ground attack, after a 
15-for-118 game last weekend. 
While the Bulldogs' early schedule seems 
to have little in the way of demanding oppo­
nents, these early tuneups will prove key in 
establishing a running game. 
Fortunately for the Bulldogs, they can 
finally count on Jasper Sanks, the nation's 
top running back recruit three years ago. 
After failing to qualify both academically 
and physically for the past two years, a 
toned-up and much more modest Sanks is 
in the lineup, and sportswriters are already 
drawing comparisons to another famous 
Bulldog athlete: Herschel Walker. With 
three road games against Tennessee, 
Florida and Georgia Tech looming on the 
horizon, it will take more than comparisons 
for Georgia to finish at the top of the SEC. 
Pittsburgh at Penn State........ r r a.m., ESPN Virginia al Clemson.............2.-30 p.m., ABC Georgia Tech al Florida St........ 7 p.m., ABC
around 

West Virginia at Maryland.......noon, R"J'PN2 South Carolina at Georgia_ ...... 4 p.m., ESPN Texas at Rutgers.................. 7 p.m., ESPN2 
California at Nebraska.........2:30 p.m.. ABC UCLA at Ohio State................... 7 p.m., ABC
the dial 

Friday, September 10, 1999 The Observer . TRISH INSIDER p_age 7 


the inside edge 
records: 1 -1 
A.P. rank: No. 16 coach's poll: No. 21

.,, 
p 
records: 1 -o 
A.P. rank: No. 20 coach's poll: No. 1 6 
The Serie~ 

Notre Dame leads 
46-22-2 
.,, 
p 

quarterbacks: Jackson has been inconsistent thus far. Brees is one of the nation's best. 
running backs: Fisher has put together back-to­back solid games for the Irish, solidifying the running attack. Purdue ·s top two backs are :ed-shirtfreshmen. 
receivers: Vinny Sutherland, Chris Daniels and company are on the receiving end ofthe nation's most feared passing attack. 
p 
.,, 
p 
offensive line: Three starting linemen return from last yearfor Purdue. Only one returnsj'or Notre Dame. 
defensive line: The D-line is rhe strength ofthr> Notre Dame defense. Both Purdue's DHs graduated last year. 
linebackers: Boiman. Nicks, Denman and Harrison have been solidfnr the Irish. 
secondary: Tom Brady looked like the second coming ofMutana last week. 
p 

special teams: The loss of Getherall won't help. Purdue l'K Trauis Dorsch is the reigning Big IO special teams player ofthe week. 

Overall 

The Irish rebounded from coaching: It wasn't the last year's first loss with coaching that undid the eight straight wins. Irish last week. Keuin 
Brees will be able to

Rogers is very quickly 
throw the ball against the

making us forget Jim Culletto . ND secondary, but the Irish offense should be able to handle the 
Boilermaker defense. 

intangibles: Jarious and Nightmares from the last company went into the 
time the Irish went to 

Big House last week 
Wes! Lafayelte will not

and hung in the game 
return thIs year.

despite three turnovers and TO penalties. 
IRISH EXCHANGE 

Tony Driver returns one of two fourth-quarter Interceptions against Purdue last year. His two picks led the lrlsh to a 31-30 come-from-behind victory over the Boilermakers. 
Purdue presents realistic challenge 
Times havc changed. almost become an expectation quickly turned to Notre Dame. 
For years, Notre Dame gave for fans and students at When asked, Brees sheepishly Purdue a swift beating on the Purdue. acknowledged that he had f'ootball ffold. The Boilers took It's not cockiness. It's confi­thought about the game. thnir lumps. oftfm begging later dence. Something that the I would venture to say that to be Boilers lacked before Coach Joe Michael Jordan thought less allowed to 
Tiller took over the program about his role in Chicago's last return tho prior to the 1997 season. three NBA Championships than favor on the After two nine-win seasons Brees thought about his desire baske tbal I and tw6 bowl victories against io rectify the end of last year's court.. nationally ranked loams, game. 
W h i I e Purdue is ready to contend with While angering a quarterback Notrn Damn nearly anyone. with only 14 career starts is not still won't Ask any returning player at as threatening as calling his play Purdue Purdue and chances are that Airness "Michelle," Notre Dame in baskot-Mike Sprunger last year's loss al Notre Dame fans can expect to sec a sharp ball. things is fresh on the memory. The and focused Brees. Key signs of couldn't be Boilers led throughout, usually this include footballs flying with morn diffnr­Purdue by double digits -until the tremendous accuracv. few men­<lll l on thn Exponent fourth quarter. Leading in the tal errors and a continuing football last five minutes of the game, trend or making something out
Sports Editor 

fin Id. No Purdue collapsPd. Quartorba.ck of' nothing when a play breaks morn should Drew Brees overthrew receiver down. llrn Irish count 011 me c ting Handall Lane and Tony Driver Once again. Saturday's mect­PurdttP and walking away with collected his first of two inter­ing is a sellout. But, as the an 1iasy victory. cnptions in the final minutes. team has evolved in recent 
Two ynars ago, l'urdun The rest is no secret: The years, so have the fans. J:ior the sliockl'd everyonn (esperially Irish scored a game-winning first timP in ypars, Purdue's Purdwi students) when it domi­lfold goal with less than a home crowd could be a factor. nutecl tlrn Irish by putting up minute to play to defeat the nnarly .'i00 yards in of'fcnso Boilers :-31-30. The uiews expressed in this during-a 28-17 victory at Hoss­Shortly after Purduo discard­r:olumn arP lhosf' of the auther Adn Stadium. In thn short time ed Ccn trnl Florida last Saturday and not necessarily those of sincP, (mating LhP. Irish has at the Citrus Bowl. thn talk The Observer. 

Anthony Bianco 

Sports Columnist 
Irish should forget Michigan, focus on Boilermakers 
Is anyone else aware that But he and the rest of the Purdue is thA team next up backfield cannot afford to on Notre Dame's slate and get burned when Brees is not Michigan? checking his recoivers. 
With everyone still up in Sonior Deveron llarper will a rm s fill the other corner and will over the need to set the tone like he > S 0 did against Kansas with his called 22-yard interception touch­contro­down return. He'll certainly versies have a lot of passes to pick s u r -from. round­. An offense free or run­ing the damental errors. Michigan I r i s h brought a defonsn capable I a s t of doing far more damage to week­the Irish attack than e_ n d , occurred last week. In you'd amassing 398 yards, .Jarious think Jackson and ttrn offensivo that the line must have done some­loss to the Wolverines ended thing right. But getting our season, We were tagged sacked four times. botching for excessive celebration live pitchouts and throwing and a late hit penalty. We a fourth-quarter intnrcep­lost yardage. Michigan capi­tion were not them. talized. They scored. They Is Kcvin Hogcr's option won. End of story. Let's offense something new for move on -remember, we the Irish'! Of course, I'd likn still have ten more games to to think that's the reason play this year. for the sloppy play. But they 
True, I have forgotten to can't expect to move the take into account that its ball as well as they did 1999. It's our year to win it against Michigan with the all. It's just too bad that we critical mistakes. Notre forgot to let Michigan know Dame got lucky at Michigan that. Just in case the (you never would have Boilermakers don't know guessed it), but as we all about our destiny, there are know, luck sometimes runs a couple of things we might out. want to bring with us to . A little more composure Ross-Ade Stadium on in the game's closing min­Saturday -in the odd event utes. The Irish had the that we have to work to Wolverines beat, the Big beat them: Jlousc crowd silenced. and 
. A secondary that can the momentum in their give up lrss than 237 pass­favor. All they neodr.d was ing yards. Yes, Michigan's to stop Michigan in their Tom Brady and Drew final drivo. Was it possible'! Henson arc quarterbacks Vos, considering the capable of throwing for far WolvP-rines only scored one more yards, but their anrial touchdown up to that point, arsenal is nothing compared despite being insidn NoLrn to Drew Brees'. As a sopho­Dame's 40 live times. more last season, Brees Who knows, maybe the averaged around 30 com­Irish can win without cor­pll'tions a gamo. ~lichigan rPcting some of tlw nrrors completed 20 against Notre that gavo Michigan the win. Dame last weekend. Thal is, if the Boilnrmakers 
Clifford Jefferson is get­can figure out tlrn signifi­ting a fePI for tho back11eld. cance of' 1999 for Notre Against Michigan, ho madc Dame. 
...

nine tackles and broke-up The views expressed in what would have been a key this column arr those of the play Lo David Terrell, auther and not necessari/11 Michigan's best receiver. those of J'ite Ubsen,er. · 
O
THE Notre Dame at Purdue BSERVER Friday, September 10, 1999 


JOHN DAILY/The Observer Junior tailback Tony Driver fights off a tackle in Notre Dame's victory over Kansas earlier this season. Driver was the hero of last year's Purdue game, as he inter­cepted two passes by Drew Brees and led the Irish to a 31-30 win.. 
Getting back on track 
After a disappointing 26-22 loss to Michigan last Saturday, Notre Dame is anxious to get back on the field and return to its winning ways. The Irish get their chance tomorrow when they square off with the Boilermakers at Ross-Ade Stadium. Purdue has won its last seven games and is looking to return the Shillelagh Trophy to West Lafayette. The Irish look to get back on track and to steal a victory on the road. Notre Dame holds a 46-22-2 advantage in the all-time series. 







