
69th ANNUAL BENGAL BOUTS Crisis in the Middle East 
¦ Check out the details of the upsets in ¦ Tensions mount in the Middle East as Hezbollah 
Monday

Friday's Bengal Bouts finals. bombs explode in Lebanon, killing four Israelis, including three military personnel . 
MARCH 1, 

See Insert 
World & Nation • 5 
1999 

THE 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 99 WWW. N D.EOU/~OBSERVER 

Gang members discuss life in Chicago's projects 
By LINDSAY FRANK New, Wrir,·r 
1:iv,~ ru1-rPnt Chicago gang mt•mlwrs spokl' with Not r<' l>amP studPnts about in1wr­city diplomacy and tlw r,•cPnl dPrrPasP in gang viokncn Sunday at a IPcturP lwst!'d hy thP CPnt,•r for Social (:1111,·prns. 
llrotlll'rs Hill Tomi's and lim h1garty or Lill' Bro11H'J"S and SistPrs or 1.ovP playPd an i11t11gral part in rPsolving tlw violPnc,• among tlw gangs in thr• Caln·ini c;n•Pn distrirt of C:hi,·ago. a1·1·orcli11g to thP panPlists. 
""Hrothn Bill 1To111Psl showPd us tlwr,. i-; anothPr world 011tsidP 111' Cabrini < ; 1· " <' 11 a 11 cl g n11 g h a n g i n g , " said 011n g1111g 111P111lwr. 
01w nl' lhP most nffoctivc ways Tonws was a bit' to rtHlS(' LIH' viol('tH'P was litcr­al ly putting himsPlf' in tlw lilll' nf' firP. 
"WhPll wP'cl Sl'P Brotlrnr Bill out lhPrt•, we'd stop shoo1ing out of rnspoct l'or him," said a membnr of the Co11s(1rvative Vien Lords. Ile also nwt with opposing gangs and listnnnd to each side whilP mediating pnact\ talks. 
Tonws hngan working with nwmlrnrs of tho Vice Lords, Mickey <'.obras and Gangshir Disciples 15 ynars ago in Chicago in an effort to make others rnalize that gang members am p(\Oplo too. 
"Many gang members think low of thnmsnlvos. So ii' you look up to tlwm. well thnn t.lrny tPncl to adopl that rnspPrl thnt you givci lhom," Im said. 
TomPs and Fogarty said that tlrn problnms associated with gangs am not nasy lo pinpoint. 
""The violence is not just about drugs or tnrritory. It could rPsult ovPr a girl. or a sign ol' disrnspnct. It is really a social thing," said Fogarty. 
OnP ol' the major problems is !.hat people iri the gangs haV(' trouble trusting people outsidr• thoir circles due to ll 11 fu In11 C cl prO Ill ises and injuslicPs in tlrn past, the panelists said. Many people come into tlrn projects and make too many empty promises or jobs and other aid. according to Fogarty. Past confrontations with the police havP also caused pco­
see GANGS I page 4 



Survey gauges SMC activities 
Students respond to how activities reflect the College 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY S.unr M:iry's N,·,vs Edirnr 
ThP iclt'a that sonw Pv1111ts and ar.tivitins nndorSfHI by Saint Mary's iu·.-cnntradiclo·­ry Lo t.lw ·values tlw College promotns itsPII' as a Catholic, all-wonrnn 's col legc prom pl­Pd SPnior Collnnn Murphy lo conduct n survey ol' SPniors and tlwir rpartions to various PVPll[S. 
FvPnts in,·ludnd .Junior MoIll 's We.-k n1HI. Sa i n t Mary· s sporti11 g riv P 11 ts, rnlrnats. tlH! Keenan Hevuc, lhu ;-il11d1inL Activitiiis Board (SJ\B) Dall\ Auction and thrl Craffiti l>ant'.I'. 
Murphy clistrihutnd :mo 
surv,iys and  rncPivnd  a  (iO  
pt'rct~nt rl'lurn ralP.  
"Tlw surV('Y idnntil"ind  l I  

difl'Prnnt social PVPllts and asknd studnnts ahoul lhnir pnrrnptions or tlw value of dif'r,,rnnt 1•v1•nts as positivl', c•nlPrt11ini11g. a good social opportunity. dnmnaning lo WOlllf'll, ohj11ctifying and how thP~n 1wnnts positivPly or rwgativPly a!Tectcd the 1wr­c,. pt io n s o I' th (Hn s e Iv 11 s as Saint Mary's studnnts," said Murphy. 
Tim survny then asked stu­dents to answer thn same eight statements about each event and rate how strongly tlrny agreed or disagreed with each statement on a scale of on(i to sevnn. 
Slin chose tu survey seniors IH1cause, "after four years tlws11 studnnts have nxperi­ci n ced llin wide range ol' 
'THE BEST PREDICTOR OF 
AN EVENT HAVING A 

POSITIVE EFFECT ON A STU­
DENT'S PERCEPTION OF HER­
SELF AS A SAINT MARY'S 
STUDENT IS WHETHER OR 
NOT THE EVENT IS SEEN AS A 

GOOD SOCIAL OPPORTLJNITY.' 
Cou.EHN M l!//1'1/l' S111/vEY Onr.ANIZER 

Sol'. i a I oppor tu 11 ities Saint Mary's olTnrs and because tlrny have had llrn l'ull bene11t ol' hning rHlucatnd in a women's collegP. nnviron­mnnt." 
"In the rnsults, we found that the best predictor of an event having a positive effect on a student's pnrccption of herself as a Saint Mary's stu­dent is whether or not the event is seen as a good social opportunity," said Murphy. 
The survey also found that the more dP.meaning an event was porceivcd to be toward women. the less positively it alfoctt>d tht> self-perception of Saint Mary's students. 
All the events from retreats to the Keenan Hevue received good social opportunity rat­ings, said Murphy. 
The three events that received the highest ratings as being most demeaning to women included the Keenan Revue. SAB Date Auction and the Graffiti Dance. Those three events also were ratP.d relativnly low for having a positive dfoct of one's per­ception of lrnrself as a Saint Mary's student. said Murphy. 
"Students are saying, 'I'm going to these events but it's having a negative effect on my self-perception even if it is sncn as a good social opportunity,"' said Murphy. 
Although evnnls like thP Keenan Hev11c, SAB Date Auction and Graffiti Dance were perceived as demeaning to women, they did not receive below average scores in the mean positive rating or the events. 
However. that 11nding does not comfort Murphy who has 
see SURVEY/ page 4 

• SMC CLASS ELECTIONS 


Students vote in run-off elections 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY Sttim Mrry's r:,lews Editor 
With the failure of one ticket to earn 50 percent of the vote in last Thursday's primary elections for the classes of 2000 and 2001, run-off elec­tions will be held today. 
In Thursday's election, the ticket of Ann Pangilinan, pres­ident; Penelope Kistka. vice president; Kat Rademacher, frel'tsurer: and Claire Burke, secretary; earned 46 percent of the vote for the class of 2000. Pangilinan's tlchit will challenge the tick.et of Maureen Donovan, president; Alison Wade, vice president; Agnes Bill, treasurer; and Emily Junius, secretary; in the run-off election. Donovan's ticket earned 30 percent of the vote in the primary election. 
For the class of 2001, the tickets remuining aro Molly Kahn, pnisident; Allison Webb, vice president; Annie Rolfes, treasurer; and Alice Fox, secretary. Kahn's ticket earned 40 percent of the vote in the primary election. Their opposition is led by Autumn Palacz, president; Julia Malciynskt, vice president; 
Alyson Leatherman, treasuror; and Gina Case, secretary. Palacz's ticket earned 48 pci·• cent of the vote in the primary olection. 
The class of 2002 was the only class to have a definite winner in the primary election last Thursday. Ono of tho two tickets was disqualified after foiling to meet n deadline. 
The winning ticket was com­prised of Michello Nagle, pres­ident; Katie O'Conrrnll, vice presid1:1nt; Katy Hobinson, treasurer; and Mandy Schomas, secretary. Nagle's ticket earned 76 plltr'.ent of the vote with 24 percent of voters abstaining. 
Bridget Heffernan, elections commissio1rnr, was pleased with voter turnout in Thursday's 'primary. The classes of 2000 and 200 I saw particularly high votor turnout with 61.5 percent and 50.3 percent, respl:'dively, of the classes voting. Votnr turnout for the class of 2002 was sig­nificantly lower with only :-M:.5 percent of the class voting. . 
"For rising juniors and seniors, the turnout was very good," said Hofl'tirnan. "We were very pleased." 

page 2 
¦ INSIDE COUJMN 

Part Three 
There was onrn a time when everything was clear to me. I knew where I would be going. I knew who the people were around me. I was confident i.n my own identity. My picture ol' reality was 
clear as crystal and C.R. "Teo" Teodoro there did not senm !o lllumatinns Editor be any distractions. 
That was a long time ago. Now, I have 
grown up since then. Grov,m up -I wonder 
just exactly what that means. Did I grow up 
by age, or length of existence'? There must 
br. something more to it. As far as I rocog­
nize it. "growing up" means that I have lost 
that clarity of perception that was so com­
mon in childhood. 

Of course. wlwn I was young, l rlid not 
hav,1 as many experiences as I do now. Oo 
my experiences add to my perception of the 
world? Or arr they distractions, an illusion­
ary fog that obscures the mind's eye? 
True, I have a better understanding of 
how the world works. I know the r,hemistry 
and physics of my environm1mt. I have 
learned some of the math that binds our 
paradigm. 1und<~rstand how language is 
used for the communication of thoughts oth­
erwise left unknown. I have realized how 
expression has moved peoples. nations. I see 
the cycle of birth. life and death. But now, I 
ask myself. what have I forgotten'? 
Despite tlw fact that we learn so much 
l'rom our surroundings, we are still distract­
ed from other truths. To be taught one thing 
may mean to exclude knowledge of another. 
To follow one manner of thought. I would 
forfeit all others. or worse, forfeit my own. 
This is where the fine line of truth and 
deception begins to blur. 

During my years of innocence, I once 
thought that Roman Catholicism was the 
only religion in the world. It was not until 
later when I learned of other Christian 
denominations, and still later other religions 
apart from the Judeo-Christian-lslamic tra­
ditions. Each religion was saying it was true, 
and all others were false. Were all paths 
true. or were they all false'? I sometimes still 
ponder this question. but it no longer gives 
me much fear. 

There is also the matter of who is right 
and who is wrong. Governments establish 
the laws of the lands. Sometimes thev are 
fair, sometimes not. Governments clash, and 
war breaks out. When one side loses, then 
does the victor write history as they see fit, 
or is history an objective account regardless 
of time and people? I am not a politician, 
nor a historian. 

What truly matters to me? That seems to 
be a continual question that is ever-present 
in my soul. What is special to me; what 
would I learn, follow and embrace? When 
you study something, then it becomes a sci­
ence to you. When you develop a passion for 
what you study, then it becomes an art. 
When your passion is internalized and made 
into a way of life, then it becomes a philoso­
phy. 

There are many sciences that I have 
learned. There are even quite a few pas­
sions that I feel deeply about. However, I 
have yet to find that one philosophy that 
would make me whole. 

But I guess I shouldn't think about it 
much now. I think what people really want 
to know is how my date was at the dance 
last Friday night. All I can say is that my 
date was breathtaking when I saw her that 
night and we both enjoyed ourselves at the 
dance -but, of course, that's assuming she · wasn't lying to me. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of £he author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
¦ TooAY's STAFF  
News  Scene  
Finn Pressly  Mike Vanegas  
Tim Logan  Graphics  
Laura Rompf  Scocc Hardy  
Sports  Production  
Kari Miller  Derek Bercher  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Mary Margaret Nussbaum  Rob Exconde  

11,c Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhmugh Friday exccpr during ex:im ;ind v.1c:nion periods. The Obse..-vcr i.s ,1 member of rhe As~ciated Pre:;~. All reproducrion right5 arc reserved. 
The Observer. INSIDE Monday, March 1, 1999 



utside the Dome 
Compiled from lf.Wire reports 


BU students protest sweatshop licensing codes 
BOSTON 
Boston University administrators mr,t with members of Students Against Sweatshops Thursday to discuss mea­sures that would strengthen the University's standards for licensing col­legiate apparel. 
While more than 50 students demon­strated on the snow-covered sidewalk outside president Jon Westling's Bay State Road office, four student repre­sentatives proposed amendments to the code BU signed two weeks ago \\-ith Collegiate Licensing Company, the cor­poration that contracts manufacturing rights to insignia for BU and 160 other universities. 
Whim they emerged from the presi­dent's ollice, SAS' four student repre­sentatives were met with cheers and praisr,, though their laces showed dis­appointment. 
"Basically, the administration refused to negotiate with us because they didn't 
¦ SM!Tri Cou.EGL 
New major aids women in engineering 
BOSTON 
In an effort to increase opportunities for women in a male­dominated field, Smith College will start an engineering pro­gram next fall -the first of its kind in the nation at an all­women's college. Approved by the school's Board of Trustees last weekend, the program will provide degrees in electrical, environmental and computer engineering and is expected to eventually enroll 100 students, graduating 25 a year begin­ning in 2004. About 2,800 women attend the Northampton college. "Clearly it is a matter of national import that our country not only produce more women engineers, but also develop new, truly effective models for educating them," Smith president Ruth Simmons said. Nationally, only about 19 percent of engineering students are women, according to Solomon Eisenberg, associate dean of Undergraduate Programs at Boston University's College of Engineering. Women make up about 9 percent of professional engineers nationwide. 
¦ MICHIGAN STATE UNlVEHSffV Students change ethnicity on records 
EAST LANSING, Mich. 
About 15 Chicano and Latino students br,came "white" Thursday. Saying they do not want their numbers benefit­ing a university that doesn't allow them to study their her­itage, members of two student groups changed their eth­nicity to white on university records in the Administration Building. "We only have 300 Chicano-registered students in the University," said Adelita Carcia, an education sophomore who changed her ethnicity on the records. "If 10 of us change it, that will change the University's per­centages, which will only hurt the University. It is not helping us any to be classified as No. 3 or No. 4." In a question on MSU applications that asks students to identi­fy their ethnicity, choice No, 3 is "Chicano/Mexican American" and No. 4 is "Hispanic." In fall 1998, 379 MSU students were registered as Chicano or Mexican American and 687 registered as llispanic, said MSU spokesman Terry Denbow. 

¦ UMV[ES!TY OF ARIZONA 
Regents oppose ID number bill 
TUCSON, Ariz. 

The Arizona Board of Regents yesterday proposed changes to a legislative bill prohibiting colleges from using student Social Security numbers for identification purpos­es. While board members said they wanted to ensure stu­dents' privacy, they were reluctant to accept the bill's 2001 deadline for implementation. University of Arizona president Peter Likins said the student-driven legislation would create a financial hardship for the three Arizona universities. "My strongest concern about this legislation is the time table," Likins said. llowever, student concerns about administrative stonewalling prompted the bill's 2001 deadline, said Sam Leyvas, executive director of the Arizona Students Association. During the meeting, Leyvas took tlrn lloor to defend the bill, for which his organization has lobbied. "The board shouldn't oppose students who are trying to protect their rights," Leyvas said aftnr the meeting. 
¦ BROWN UNIVERSITY 
State commission hears professor's suit 
PHOVIDENCE, lU. 

Nearly live years after former assistant professor of music Henry Kingsbury filed charges of disability discrimination against the University, the case went before the Rhode Island Commission for Human Rights this week. In 1991, Kingsbury took a medical leave of absence to undergo surgery for a brain tumor. Two years later he requested to return to work, but the University rnfused his requnst. In March 1994, Kingsbury filed suit with the Commission, alleging the University discriminated against him bncause of his disability when it refused to reinstato him. The following academic year Kingsbury resumed his teaching position under a three-year contract. But in 1997, the University declined to renew the contract when the department of music recommended that he not be rehired. Kingsbury again filed suit with the Commission later that year, alleging the University again discriminated against him because of his disability when it refused to renew his contract. 

Despite repeated statements by provost Dennis Berkey indicating Thursday's meeting would only be a discussion, Krouzmau insisted through­out thP week that a slrong shov, of stu­dent support would force the adminis­tration to 1rngotiate. 
Although administrators agreed to take the students' recommendations 

into consideration, they will not renege on their commitmont to the cu: code, BU spokesman Colin Hiley said. 
"The provost listened to the concerns of the students and is taking those con­cerns under advisement," Hiley said. 
While SAS rnprnsentatives were in discussions with administrators, stu­dent prot11sters bngan a demonstration on Marsh Plaza. As sHveral speaknrs rousnd the crowd, others unveiled a flag that read "People Power. We Will Be Heard" 
As they began to n1arch down Commonwr,alt.h Avcmrn, students hold· placards and chanted cries of' "Sweatshops arc jerky, BcrkPy!" and "lley lwy! !lo ho! SwPatshops haw gol to go1" 
Prott)stcrs formed a circle around the president's doorstep and continund­speeches and cheers for nearly an hour, despite tho driving snow and wind. 
¦ SOUTH BENO WEATHER ¦ NATIONAL WEATHER 

Via Assoc1atod Press 

Atlanta 65 40 Fargo 42 25 Reno 56 26 Birmingham 72 42 Helena 47 24 St. Louis 59 42
q,Q,Q_AeQ ~ ~ u Boston 48 . 33 Miami 76 58 St. Paul 42 33 
Showers T•storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 

Dallas 82 50 Phoenix 84 55 Seattle 49 36 
V,a Associated Press G,aph,csNet 

Denver 68 34 Richmond 56 31 Wichita 71 38 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather8 forecast for daytime conditions rind high temper.'.ltures 
H L 
I 
I 


Monday ~ 43 31 
·i#&' 
Tuesday Q, 4'7 35 Wednesday6.} 42 31 Thur~day 
Q ... 43 32 Fri~y 
t~'\/\f.... ,• '•u~ .: . y .) 



--------------------------------------------------.------­
Monday, March I, 1999 
The Observer. CAMPUS NEWS 
page 3 


Nussbaum discusses religious ethics, discrimination 

By ERIN PIROUTF.K 
New, Writer 
/\ fit1t• halancn must hn main-1.ainncl lwl.wr,nn allowing reli­gious l'n•pciom and prnvi,nting discrimination within rnligions, said Martha Nussbaum, Univnrsity of Chicago law and Pl.hies prol'nssor. 
At lwr l1•cturn Friday, "Bcdigion and Snx Equality," Nussbaum discussPd tlrn IPgal ramifications ol' rPligious l'rne­dom. citing r1digious systPms that discriminalP against women in India. 
"I·"\ ll'gal sysl<'m I must rns1wct rPligious womnn and mn11 as rhoosnrs ol' a way ol' lil"n. whiln al Uw samf' limn taking just as snri-

SUMMER IN ROME 
Srndy abroad through Stony Brook University from late June to late July and experience Italian culture firsthand. 
No PRIOR KNOWLEDGE OF ITALIAN IS NECESSARY. Classes are taught in both English and Italian at the Domus i\ lariae and weekends are spent traveling, if desired, to Assissi, Florence, Siena, Padua, Venice, Capri, and Tivoli. 
Call the Study Abroad Offic ·' ····· or con.tact. Professor Mario Mignone mmigncme@cc 
ously the importance of the full "There are areas of religious range of the human capabilities practice in which the govern­that am sometimes at risk for ment probably does not have 
womon in tradi­tional religious cul turns," Nussbaum said. 'ALEGAL SYSTEM MUST 
She cautioned, 
RESPECT RELIGIOUS 
however. that "rnspecting tho WOMEN AND MEN AS 
frncdorn of rnli-CHOOSERS OF A WAY OF gion does not LIFE.' mnan giving a 
small numbnr of' r<>ligious leaders 
M;1m11t1 NusSBJ\llM 
limitlnss licensn to perp11tuatn 
PROFESSOR OF LAW AND flTl1/CS 
human misery, 
H1digions l"orf'nit thnir right lo should not force the Homan statn protoction whnn they ovor­Catholic Church to hire fnmale stnp certain moral boundaries." priests, although it probably 
Contest sponsored by the College of Business 

Notre Dame In the New Millennium 


What will Notre Dame be like In the new Millennium? Twenty years from now, what will the campus look like? How will students learn? What will residential life be like? What new fields of study will be added? Will social life still exlst In the form of the ever-popular SYR? The College of Business invites you to be a futurist and participate In a competition. 
Eligibility: ~. ~rul Notre Dame Juniors, Sophomores, and First Year students. Students can work In groups of up to five people. · 
Prizes per submission: First Prize: 
$1,500 and presentation to the Business Advisory Council Second Prize: $750 
*
Third Prize: $500 
Requirements: 
I. 
2. 
3. 
4, 5. 
Questions: Contact Sarah Knapp at Knapp,9@nd edu. or 631-3277. 

To enter the contest, send e-mail to state your participation by Monday, March I" to Knc1pp.9@nd.edu, An information session will be held for all participants at 5:00 PM on March l" in Room 204 CoBA. Imagine It Is the year 2020. Create a view book for undergraduate admissions In the year 2020 (12-15 pages). Please touch upon the following five topics In your writing: 
11. Campus life o. Student profile 
c. 
Curriculum Issues d. Learning environment 

e. 
Spiritual life Projects 11re due on April 12, 1999. Winners will be notified by April 26, 1999. 


compelling interost in forcing changn," she added. "At least so long as the free­dom of' indi­viduals to changn their rdigion is also 
firmly nstab­lished: public 
norms of snx 
equality 
should force them to hire f'emale Harvard, Wclleslny, Princeton,

janitors." 

Brown, Oxford and Stanford. Following the lecture, Frnd 
Sho servos as a research advisor Dallmayr, Notre Dame govern­
at thn World Institute for ment and international studies 
Dnvelopnrnnt Economics professor, complemented Hosearch (WlllEIH in llnlsinki. a Nussbanm's "nuanced sensitivi­
part of llrn United Nations ty, that sense of balance; tlrn University. search for a middle road that's 
Shn has written numerous the best part of Aristotelian tra­
books, including "Por Love of a dition." 
Country" and "Pootic Justice." Dallmayr expressed concnrn, 
llnr most rocnnt book, however, that Nussbaum's 
"Cultivating llumanity,". was desires for religious personal praised by .lames Shapiro in tho freedom and r,quality laws will 
Now York Times Book llevinw as take time. He encouraged her to 
a "l'ormidablt\ pPrbaps (!pfinitivobn cautious and patient. 
dcfonso of' divnrsity m1 American Nussbaum, a rnnownod campusos." 
American philosopher and pub­The locturn wa.'i in the series or lic intellectual, has held tDaching 
Theodorn M. I l1~shurgh I.octurns and research positions at on Ethics and Public Policy. 

Bishop supports Campus Ministry 
Special to the Ohserver 
Notre Dame has rnc<1ived a 
commitmnnl from Bishop 
Hobert Lynch of St. 
Petersburg, Fla., to support its 
office ol' Campus Ministry. 
Announcing his commitmcmt 
at a recent gathering of tho 
University's alumni and 
friends in 1998, Bishop Lynch 
said that he was making the 
gift in honor of the late .Joseph 
Cardinal Bernardin, who 
received Notre Dame's highest 
honor, the Laetare Modal, in 
1995. He also warmly praised 
Notre Dame's ACE program, 
which has sent four recnnt 
Notre Dame graduates to 
teach in parochial schools or 
the St. Petersburg diocese, 
and those Notre .Dame alumni 
who serve on the boards and 
councils of' the diocese. 
"Our diocese has bennfitcd greatly from Notre Dame's commitm'ent to campus min­istry and to nourishing the faith life or its students," Bishop Lynch said, adding that he beliHved his commit­ment lo the University's Campus Ministry· program would similarly benpfit parish­es and dioceses throughout the countrv. 
"We are· as honored by the generosity of Bishop 'Lynch as we are grateful !'or it," said University president Father Edward Malloy. "Notrn 

Interested in 


writing news? Call Tim at 
1-5323 
~­
-~.~ CELEBRATED EVENTS 
Comprehensive Wedding Coordinating and Partv Pla1111ing 
SPECIALIZING IN LONG DISTANCE WEDDING PLANNING 
CYNTHIA BASKER 
100 N. Center Street Suite 27 Mishaw.ik:t, IN 46544 219-257-887) 
Call /}J" ll'rite (Jr i-ee in (}l'lllationa/ 111de1 
Dame's most crucial rnsponsi­
bility as a Catholic University 
is to summon an 11ntrirc com­
munity to dnopnr prayer and 
intensified discipleship. That 
responsibility, which was the 
heart of' Cardinal Bernardin's 
witness, is also the prinicipal 
task of' our Campus Ministry, 
ans wn are heartened by 
Bishop Lynch's rncognition of' 
its urgency." 
Bishop Lynch, who has 
serV<id the St. Pntcrsburg dio­
cese since 1996. was general 
secretary ol' tlrn National 
Council of' Catholic Bishops 
from 1989 until 1995. 
Notre Dame's office of Campus Ministry, under the direction ol' Father Richard Warm1r, provides a wide vari­c ty of' services dcsignflcl to sustain the religious life of the students, faculty and staff of' the University. In addition lo aranging campus and rosi­dflnce hall liturgies and praynr servicns. it administers r1,Ji­gious nducalion, sacram()nlal preparation and counseling programs, retreats, praynr groups and servicP projects: 
Bishop Lynch's commitment is a componnnt of the University's $7(,7 million "Generations" 1:ampaign. Announced last year. "Generations" is the largnsl fund-raising campaign in ttw history of Catholic higlwr nclu­cation. 
.--------... ....w--------------­
• page 4 
ratings of' the events are all pretty good," Murphy said.


Survey 
"This finding does not take away from the fact that Saint
continued from page I 
Mary's is endorsing events that are negatively influenc­presented her findings to tho 
ing self perceptions of stu­
Board of Governance and tu dents.
the Roard of TrustPes at their "If we want students to feel
meeting that took place in 
proud of being Saint Mary'sFebruary. 
students, we need to examine"This isn't saying that Saint 
the events endorsed by theMary's is doing a horrendous College and their effect of
job in promoting events 
students' self perception."
because tho mean positive 
¦ IRHANB 

More arrests made in terrorist bombing 
A;sociatcd Pres, 
DUBLIN 
Police arrested a woman on Sundav in connect.ion with last year's· car bombing in Omagh,. bringing to four lhe number of suspects being interrogated about Northern Ireland's worst terrorist attack. 
Three men were arrested Saturday in the border town of Dundalk, the main power base for the Irish Republican Army splinler group responsible for the Aug. 15 attack that claimed 29 lives. The woman was arrested in Dublin, the capital of the Irish Republic. 
Under an Irish anti-terrorism law strengthened after the Omagh bombing, the suspects can be questioned for up lo i2 hours before being charged or released. 
Pol.ice in both parts of [reland have arrested nearly 100 people in their efforts to track down the Omagh bombers. So far only one pcr­so n has been charged, Colm Murphy, 48, a Dundalk pub owner. 
Murphy appeared in a Dublin court last week, charged with membership in the IRA dissi­dent group and with conspir­ing to cause explosions. 
The dissidents oppose th£~ IRA's July 1997 truce and the decision of the IRA-allied Sinn Fein party to accept the terms of the Good Friday peace agreement in 1998. 
¦ INDIA 



Pope advanc,$ sainthood crusade' 
required,. ~ve~. J'or ttW il)t~rna~,
Process to honor tionany-beloved·ntn:i •who·-•dedi~•-•• 
cated herJife to the destitute ofMother Teresa Calcutta. _-.. _>"'1 , .---'W" '"'~: _-01 
"The demand was so greatwill soon begin andiinsi~~.e.ntJhahtl-ie ~9lY 
Father thoughffo go. ahead.H 
said a Vatican spokesman. the 
Associated Press •Rev:<Ciro'B'enedettint~t••-­
With th~ Wq}Ver, ..ca,1c11\ta' s 
CALCUTTA --archhishoJ:rhasbeenallow~d.tm 
Pope John Paul JI has waived begin the.process ofgathering 
the mandatory W<J.lJofJive inJqp:n \J,q tJtpnyT 
years after death to begin the ahoutM · · · eiirst · 
process of possible sain!hQod steP;toward · tifica• -­
for Mother Teresa; t.he ::atch7 'tioi:Gand >> --.• 
bishop of Calcutta said Sunday. It was the first time in recent 
Archbishop HentyD'Sguza..... mem.rytlillts~ph an·e]C~eption;r 
told The AssociateifPress he bad been made. the archbishop ­
received a letter from the said,. > . i . --·••·-•-.·_•·--•-·o 
Vatican's Congregation fotthe ·•-·· · "Il is an importantsteP for-
Causes of the Saints on Dec. 12 ward,.an impo!tant testi_mony 
announcing the waiver, but had to the san~tity of -Mother 
not publicized it. Teresa," he s~id, a?~ingJhat 
In Rome, the Vatican .Con~ the PQP0'1¥ouldnothave gi"ant.. ·­
firmed the waiver by the pope, edt.he waiverwitho~t '}uch 
who_ had previQ11s1y-_Jndi~a,ted --·._ req..llest~ fr alJ>QV:t,;J;q.the,
the five-year wait would be world." -----A,, ..•. The Observer • NEWS Monday, March I, 1999 


Gangs 
continued from page I 
pie in the projects to distrust outsiders. 
"Police beat us up and drop us off in other neighbor­hoods," said one long-time member. 
Most of the gang members indicated lack of paternal prnsence as a reason for join­ing the gang. In fact, all the men joined their respective gangs around the age of 14, although one man had been a member of the Gangster Disciples for 27 years, ever since he joined at the age of 9. 
Despite the truce among several of the gangs, the pan­elists expressed the ill effects of growi.ng up amidst the vio­lence. 
"For a while, I couldn't walk next to my mom. When we left the house, I would lead. I wasn't afraid of me getting shot -I was afraid for her," said one of the panelists. 
"One thing about going up in the projects is that you grow up fast." said another gang member. 
Another panelist said that his cousin bad just heen killed last Saturdav. and he initially had the urge· to seek revenge. 
"At first I thought about how we were going to deal with the guy that killed my r.ousin," he said. "But I calmed down when I found 
r ---­
I 
I I I 

out he was just a kid. only two years older than my daugh­ter." 
Many of the panelists dis­cussed the brevity of life in the projects. "Where I come from tomorrow ain't promised to you," said one of' the men. When asked how old they were, several of them replied that they were 23 or 28 years 
'I:">R A WHILE, I 
r COULDN'T WALK NEXT TO MY MOM. WHEN WE LEFT THE HOUSE, I WOULD LEAD. I WASN'T AFRAID OF ME GET­TING SHOT -I WAS AFRAID FOR HER.' 
VJsmNG PANELIST AT 
CSC DISCUSSION 
of age. 

The discussion also focused on the rules that govern gang life. The majority of the panel attended grammar school together and had unwritten rules that fights ended before school and began after school 
"It was kind of weird because it was like 'I was just in class with you five minutes ago and now you want to fight me?"' said one panelist. They also said that no one left tho gangs and that' they just "had to battle it out." 
The panelists also talked about the hierarchy within the gang and how many of' them were "retired" members. 
"I still get the same respect, and if they need me at a meet­ing or nBed help with a pro­gram I'll go, but I'm not as active anymore," said one vet­eran. 
"Once yuu 've been down with a gang for 10, 15 years they let you be a man and do your own thing." 
For many of thc~se m!lmbers, lhat means spending time with their wives and children, obtaining their GEDs and pur­suing other forms of educa­tion. 
One Mickey Cobras member said that because of working with people like Tomes and Fogarty, his gang activity has "cooled down" and that he was busy working as a scrvico coordinator for WIC (Women, Infants, and Children). He is also making an effort to makn sum his childrnn don't take tho path ho l'ollowed. 
"I don't want to soc my kids grow up the way I <lid. I makn sure tlwy have a lot of activi­ties to keep 11mm busy,'' ho said. 
Although Tomes and Fogarty were encouraged by the progress the pannlists had made toward ending the vio­lence and making the gangs less a part of their lives, they still feel that society needs to become more involved. 
"We need to find ways to break barriers," said Fogarty. 

WHY NOL11 
Entered Holy Cross: August 15, 1935 Years ND President: 35 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
¦ 
~ 

Number of Honorary Degrees: 139 

"I have not one regret. ANSWER THE CALL--today!" 
--Fr. Ted Hesburgh, C.S.C., ND '39, President Emeritus 


For more information on Holy Cross' one-year Candidate Program contact: 
Fr. Jim King, C.S.C. or Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. l-6385 
vocation. l@nd.edu 
---~ FOLLOW HIM .... ? 

check out THEPLUNGE atwww.nd.edu/~vocation 
____w_-............-----_____.....---------------------­

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER W!RE SERVICES page 5 

¦ LEBANON 


Assoc:Mnm Prrnss Israel Radio reporter, all of whom meeting that nation's new ruler, 
were in Gerstein's vehicle, also were King t\bdullah. 
MAR.JAYOUN killed. In announcing Sunday's retaliatory 
Lebanese guerrillas detonated two Hezbollah, an Iranian-backed attacks, Israeli chief-of-staff Lt. Gen. bombs beside a military convoy Lebanese guerrilla group, claimed Shaul Mofaz said Israel adhered to a Sunday. killing a brigadier general responsibility for the attack. It came three-year understanding with the and three other Israelis in one of the five days after another south Ilezbollah to avoid civilian targnts. most serious attacks on Israel's Lebanon ambush killed three Israeli However, Netanyahu hintPd that forces in southern Lebanon. army officers. prompting renewed Israel's action. which would i11clud11 
Israeli warplanes retaliated after calls for Israel to pull troops out of land and sea forces. might ovnntual­the bombing. firing missiles at sus­Lebanon. ly end the agreement. lie accused pecter! guerrilla hideouts in south­Israel occupied part of Lebanon in the Iranian backed militia of "sys­ern and eastern Lebanon, Lebanese 1985 to prevent cross-border tematically" violating the agree­security officials said. There was no attacks, setting up a so-called "secu­ment. immediate word on casualties from rity zone" that covers about one­Netanyahu alrnady faces a tough the air raid. the second in south tenth of Lebanon. Hezbollah is the battle !'or re-election bnf'ore a vote Lebanon in as many days. most active of guerrilla groups fight­May 17. Top campaign issues 
Brig. Gen. Ernz Gerstein was the ing to oust the Israelis and their include whether, when and how to highest-ranking officer to die in militia allies. withdraw troops from L1dmnon. Lebanon since the 1982 Israeli inva­Speaking after Sunday's attack, Morn than <JOO fsraeli soldiers sion. llis vehicle, described by area Israeli prime minister Benjamin have died since l 1)82. ;\s many as residents as an armor-plated Netanyahu called Lebanon "an acute 25,000 Lebanose and Palestinians Mercedes, careened off the road. problem." have been killed during tlrn same rolled into the valley below and "It's one that awaits a solution. period. according to Lebanese offi­burst into flames. Israel knows what to do," he said ·in cials and international relief agen­
Two Israeli sergeants and an Amman, Jordan, where he was cies. 
Governor fires head of police 
ASSOCII\TED PRESS Whitman said Sunday "Two weeks ago, the me.tamphetaminc market, 
the state's law enforce, prcside11t or the United that s11ems to bti con­
TRENTON, N.J. ment system rnust be car-States went to Mexico to trollt)d by the motorcycle 
Gov. Christine Whitman ried out free of bias. She talk to the president of gangs, which are basically lirnd the head of the New said Williams· comments' M0xfco about drugs. He predominantly white." he JBrsey State Polico on "are inconsistent with our didn't go to Ireland. He said. "If you're looking at Sunday after ho said in a efforts to enhance p1tbUc didn't go to England," heroin and stuff like that, newspaper interview that confidence in the ·state'' Williams said. your involvement thf.lro is minority groups wore Police." "Today with this drug morP or loss Jamaicans." more likely to be involved Williams has 'c.orne problem, the drug prob­Last woek, The in drug trafficking. under fire over allegations lem is cocaine or marijua­Associated Press reported 
The Rlar.k Ministers that the agoncy practices · mi. It Is most likely a thnt the Justic1i Council of New Jersey an.d racial profiling, targeting minority group ihat's Department's Civil Hights the state chapter of the minorities for traffic stops. involved with that,'' said Division had been invPsti­NAACP had hPen calU:ng In an lntervi.ew with The Williams. gat. in g tho Now Jersny for Stato Police superin­Star-Ledgor of Newark·. Williams. 58, has repeat­State Police for two yoars. tendent Col. Carl Williams' published Sunday, edly said he has never Williams was not imme­ouster for weeks, saying Williams said he did not condoned racial profiling, diittcdy available for com­he was not acknowledging condone racial profiling, But he told the newspaper ment. and a state police a history of racist procc­but said i.t is naive to think some generalizations can spokesman, John d ures on the part of the race is not an issue in be made. Hagerty, did not return Stato Police. drug crimes. "If you're looking at the messages. 
I 
I I 
I I 
i 

page 6 The Observer. INTERNATIONAL 
¦ AUSTRIA 
Frunilies 1Dourn avalanche victilils 
Associated Press 
INNSBRUCK 
Alpine rescuers in parkas and soldiers in winter uniforms on Sunday lirn~d the aisles of a church where families mourned the :rn victims of avalanches that thundered into a mountain valley packed with ski vacation­
<JrS. 
Just a day after rescU<' teams dug up the final body from the devastating snowslides in the Paznaun Valley, Austria marked a national day of mourning. Church bells tolled throughout Innsbruck, capital of Wllstern Tyrol region. 
As the victims' namr,s wer11 read aloud one by one, a candle was lit for each by mountain rnscue team membMs. police and soldiers. Some family mem ­bers, sitting in the front of the ornnte church, dabbed away tears as speakers at the memo­rial service talked of the tragedy. 
"The latest events in the Paznaun and elsewhere in the Alps have again made us con­scious of how threate1rnd and l'ragile human life is." said Homan Catholic Bishop Alois 
¦ CUBA 
Dissidents face trial in Havana 
Associated Press 
HAVANA 
Magaly De Armas says she knew life would be hard as the wife of one of communist Cuba's best-known dissid11nts whnn she wed Vladimiro Roca seven years ago. 
"[Ip taught me to be pre­pared for whatever could hap­pen," she said calmly, sitting by the open front door of her living room. "But I think that he was always better prr,­pared." 
Now comes one of the tough­est moments. 
Hoca, 56. and three other opposition leaders go on trial Monday on sedition charges amid a new crackdown on political dissidents. One of the most important human rights casns in Cuba in recent years, the trial is seen as a test of how far the government is will­ing to bend to international opinion while maintaining its new tough stance toward the opposition. 
De Armas said many other dissid<)nts who support the group have been detained by state security agents in recent days, apparently to prevent protPsts outside the court­house. Government officials, who newer comment on such detentions. were infuriated by a demonstration last year out­side the trial of another dissi­dent, which was widely report­ed by foreign media. 
Hnca. Rene Gomez Manzano, engineer Felix Bonne and economist Marta Beatriz Roque wcrr. leading members of the opposition coalition Concilio Cubano whnn they were jailed in .July 1997 for criticizing a major Communist Party docu• mnnt. 
The trial is expected to last several days. It is unknown if journalists will be allowed inside. 
De\ Armas fears that her 
husband, already held for 
nearly 20 months, will be sen­
tcnc1\d to more time. Or that if' 
he is released, he will be 
rnquirnd to leave the country Koth gasser. 
Austrian Chancellor Viktor Klima and the ambassadors of Germany, the Netherlands and Denmark, whose citizens were among the dead, attended the ecumenical service at Wiltcn Church. 
"The violence of nature has left deep wounds," Klima said at the service, televised live in Austria, Germany and other European countries. "The entire country must stand together and heal these wounds." 
Disaster lirst struck in the late afternoon last Tuesday, when sun-warmed snow masses roared down a slope and into the village of Galtuer. killing 31 people. Hampered by bad weather. rescuers took four days to find all the bodies in the cut-off village. It was the dead­liest avalanche in a winter of heavy snow and countless snowslides throughout Europe ·s Alps. 
Seven others died the follow­ing day when a wall of snow pulverized the nearby village of Valzur. 
Killed in the two avalanches were 21 Germans, nine Austrians, six Dutch and two 
where his father, the late Communist Party leader Blas Roca, remains a beloved figure. 
"Ile doesn't want to leave Cuba. This is his homeland," De Armas said. "He says that outside of his country, he is no one." 
Communist officials insist there are no political prisoners in Cuba, only people jailed for common crimes. They reject the characterization of the four as prisoners of conscience. 
When the opposition leaders were charged last fall. the prosP.cution recommended a six-year sentence for Roca and five years each for the others. 
Since then, thfl government has passed a tough, broadly worded law aimed at silencing dissidents who promote U.S. economic sanctions against Cuba. Those convktP-d can face up to 20 years in prison. 
The four cannot be tried under the new law. but it sig­

S-hJde.n+-s · · · · 


~a'{ to be INVOLV£D on lampuf> ne~t '{tar 
~ 
\-\ave some fUN? 
~elome-a Me-mber of 

* 
** 
C.hair\'lomen 'Pof>itionf> avai\ab\e indude: 
C.ome-d'l 
C.u\tura\ £ntertainment Movief> ~ Munlhief> 
,reaf>urer 

App\ilations Avai\ab\e at \-\,399ar front Des\( Due frida'f, Marlh '5 
Danes; 12 of the dead were children. Twenty-five people were rescued. 
Coffins containing 16 of the dead were shown during TV coverage of the ceremony, cov­ered with flowers. The bodies of the seven local victims from the Paznaun Valley, who will be buried on Tuesday, remained in Galtuer, and others had already been flown back to their home countries. 
Luise Mueller, a Protestant church leader who helped con­duct the service, said that after an event like this, "There are always questions who is to blame, but there is no quick answer and that makes us fear­
ful." 
"The pain and the sorrow over what has happened in Paznaun leaves people speech­less," she said. 
Most roads into the snow­filled valley, 50 miles southwest of Innsbruck, were open Sunday as the area tried to return to normal. Thousands of tourists were evacuated by heli­copter before roads were finally dug out on Saturday. Alpine crews continued cleanup work Sunday. 
1,1als a tougher government stance toward the opposition. 
Meanwhile. more than a year after Pope John Paul H's visit in January 1998, Cuba remains under pressure from human rights groups and for­eign governments to ease up on opponents. 
The pope called for funda­mental freedoms. respect for human rights and an indepen­dent civil society. More than 80 prisoners were released after his visit. 
Rut the Vatican, European nations, the United States, Amnesty International and Human Hights Watch/Americas have pointed to the current case as an example of hmv far Cuba still has to go. They were held nearly 15 months before being formally charged. 
The group's relatives have appnaled to world leaders, including King Juan Carlos of Spain, to push for their release. 

·•·,ia·:lf .·.··....·•··. 
..,... -: ·:--::,. :: 
:::::-··.-,:· .;;·· r:. •..,,: :/ -: , 
.•,•, ., 
ABABA 
ttotal. y" Shnd:ay and said ·. ha~ sµffore~J "a.1µqnµ7 l •and hl.lmiHating jJn,tht. flor1.h of. Africa 
war.· ... ··••· •Tbr ~Jhiopian. stat(?ment 
made·no mention of Eritrea's 
0110 l ll}prday .. to ... . . ....· o'.~ ..... •.. pJan•dtafted \ly.tij~/Qr~a.nt?a.ti~Pi.of ~ricaJ:I 

· tinit#,< Insteai.i'it focused on .. th,e ~thiopia~Loffensive that h'l'ifa}Jhed tlil.. main battle fro11(at Ba.dm~ on Friday and allo'Yed troopsto advance sixmiles into, Eritrcan•held terri­
l<lty,Jr .·•·· •· ..·····.. .··.. ..· . 
''The de(en~e forces of th~ Fed~ral nemocnit~C Republic 0r ·~pi~. mf)pitJ~ ors.uch ,a e11$mJ':/'!'O-i.l.i;ta.ry,,pre~• .. 
en!.teJ wereJ1.1 the spa,ce of ~Y~tabl.e t~ ~l.11 a tot.fl ," 'the goverilment said 
z~tatelllent'. ;~11i, ··• / . 
tJiJopfastopped short of ;'.g~~!ftl!tg{.i,h(¼{:Wa{;:,9tl.,.,llut,it 
maqe clMr tha.t it'sconsidered 
:;tts ,,11.fp.i,a(Badtf!:e.••"""".. 60()
'niile$ 11Qrth of the Ethiopian capital! 1,ddisA~aba<-:-the decisive 'victorv in a conflict t~~t,~~s sjmJl1;ered SillCffMay.I 'fherH: was no +m.medlate ~?1;(} Spnd~y i,l;to111 }h,e:Eritteans, wh't> hav,e made no .{tttern.pt .. to deny·... the 
.. Ethi:Qpians' gains; • wnich. were ~d~ly s~en ai, the beginning of thtren:d ofthe wi1r. 
· Etliiopia and, Eritrea, whose ':rivaj' 1eadets·differ+bitterly on political and ideological 
Recycle The Observer 
Mar\(etin9 'Slhoo\ 'Spirit ~peal(erf> rraditiona\ £vents 
and poorly.demarcated 620­
mile border'. 
The latest fighting, which 
began Feb: 6, ended an eight• 
rrionth stalemate after 1,000 .ti(rnple wet() killed in May and June. 
•·· Ethiopia, wHh its 58 million . people, dwarfs Eritrea, whose ,population.ts just 3.5 million. 
· Eritrea's army "has suffered 
a monumental and humiliat­
ing defeat. Enemy army per• .sonnel left over have fled, scattering and leaving behind their military armaments," Ethiopia said. 
. The statement did not say 
whether fJghting continued 
Sunday, repeating only that it 
had consolidated its 40,000 
troops and heavy artillery on 
Saturday following Friday's 
gains. 
Ethiopia claimed to have 
killed, wounded and captured 
tens of thousands of Eritrean 
soldiers, 
There was no· way to verify 
those claims, and neither 
¢oui1try has permitted jour­
nalists lo approach the front 
On Saturd \1-Y, Eritrean 
President Isaias Afwerki told · the KN. Security Co'UncH.that 
Eritrea was ready to abide by 
rm OA\.U peace plan. 
· Ethiopia had agreed to the . proposal when it was prosm1t­ed in November, but Eritrea had balked at a clause dnma.nding that it unilaterally withdrawits troops from dis­puted border areas before any 
cease~fire could be reached. 
In astatement, the council said it welcomed Eritrea's hew position. The council expr1.1ssed willingness to help implement the OAU accord, which it called "a viable and sound basis for a peaceful resolution to the conflict.H 


...,_,_.... --­
Monday, March I, l 999 The Observer. INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 


¦ ZAMBIA 
Bombs explode outside embassy 

Associated Prc,s 
LUSAKA 

A bomb exploded Sunday at thu Angolan Embassy. killing a s,~curity gunrd and exten­sivuly damaging the building. Bom'bs also went off in four other areas in Zambiu's capi­tal. 
There was no immediate claim of responsibility. Prnsidunt Fruderick Chiluba condornnrd the bombings as "unacceptable acts of terror­ism" and asked Zambians to be on th11 alert for further attacks. 
Police sealed off the Angolan Embassy in a north­nastern suburb after the explosion shattered windows 
and damaged part of tho upper t1oor of the two-story building. 
One security official at the embassv was killed and mlOther was slightly woundod, state TV reported. Witnesses said police defused a second device at the embassy. 
Tho nationalities of tho vic­tims weren't released. 
Relations between Zambia and neighboring Angola have bren strained over allngations Zambia allowed illegal. weapon shJpments to pass through its territory to Angolan rebels. Zambia denies the atlegations but con~ cedes its lengthy border with Angola is almost impossible to police. 

Obassanjo to win presidency 
both previous presidnntial elections, in 1971) and l 993, the apparent result was con­lested by at l(1ast orrn of thn candidates. 
An official of the All l'(Hlples Partv, which also backed Falali, interrupted a news con­ference at Nigeria's Independent National Electoral Commission to denounce thn rosults. 
"We cannot bn bound by tho rnsults relnasnd thus f'ar." said Ayo 0padokun, Falue's cam­paign director. 
The announcements from ralae's camp followed reports by international observers of ballot box-stuffing and other serious voting irrcgularitins. 
"Our delegation members and others witnessed snrious irregularities and overt elec­toral fraud in a number of states," said formm President Carter, who led a 60-person delegation of nltiction observers. 
Carter, added, though, that "a saving factor was that tlrnrP was no nationwidn pattP rn to favor any one party." 
Falan and top oflkials in his party, as well as tho /\II Pcoplos Party, hnad(\d to the capital. Abuja, to mPot with election officials. Durodola said. 
To officially chall<'ngn the nlection, Falae's party would have to lite suit with Nigeria's Court of Appnal, a procnss that could take months. 
0basanjo's l'1H1ples Democratic Party already 1rnrnnd a majority ol' seats in the National Assl'mbly aft11r nlnctions only days lwl'ore tlrn presidnntial tally. 
Obasanjo, who voluntarily stepped down from powPr in 1979, is widnly dislihd by many southern Nigerians ­including Falae's supporters -because of his military past. 
Falae had told journalists Saturday that he would accept the results of the nlection -if they were free and fair. 
The conlrovnrsy did not immediately spark public protests. No violnncn was rcportnd on the quiet streets of Lugos. often a hotbed of strife in times of political dis­sent. 
In 0basanjo's southwestern hometown of Ahcokuta, the retired general was mobbed by several doznn joyous sup­porters outside his house. Women hugged him, sang songs, and held up evening newspapers celebrating his apparent victory. 
After several minutes, he hopped in a car and was dri­ven to the airport to fly to Abuja. 
Nigeria, ruled by a series of military leaders since Shehu Shagari was overthrown in 1983, has beon nconomically battered and diplomatically isolated by its junta govern­ments. 
Corruption anrl mismanagn­rncnt have cost tlw country billions of dollars of its mas• sive oil wealth. leaving much of its infrastructure crumbling, with nlnctricity and watnr snr-. vicn largely unknown in many cities. 
Tim democratic transition began in .Juno, when tho fivp,­year dictatorship of G(rn. Sani /\bacha <1ncled with his sudden dnath. Abacha was followed hy Crn. /\bdulsalarni Abuhakar, who has rcpPatPdly vow11d to hand over power to a civilian govnrnmcnt. 
Abubakar is to turn ovnr 
powrr to the 111\W civilian prns­
idcnt on May 29. 
Associated Press 
/\BUJA 
Hetirnd Grn. Olusegun Obasanjo appeared increas­ingly certain Sunday to win Nigeria's prrsidcntial vote, the final step in the nation's long­awailed transition to civilian rule. 
Election officials said 0basanjo, a former military ruler seeking a civilian comn­back 20 years after giving up power, had further widened his lead -leaving Obasanjo's opponent Olu Falae almost no 
chance  to  make up the lost  
ground.  
By  Sunday  Pvening,  

0basanj o had captured 62 percent nf the vote with 31 of Nigeria's ~6 states and the federal capital reporting. Final results were nol expected until Monday. 
Falae, the former finance minister, plans to contest Urn 
results of Saturday's election, a top aide said -calling the election "completely rigged." The claim cast a shadow ovor the vote billed as a chance to restore democracy to Africa's most populous r,ountry. 
Falae's aide, Sunday Durodola, said the election ­only the third in Nigrrian his­tory -was suspect. 
"We havo not had a free and fair dcrtions. and Falac will contest this," Durodola, the party secretary for Faiae's Alliance for Democracy, said in a telephone interview from Lagos, Nigeria's commercial capital. 
A refusal to recognize the outcome by one or the two presidential candidates would taint the vote. though election officials said they would con­tinue to count the ballots. 
Nigeria has never held a presidential election in which the loser accepted defeat. In 



-~----------.-----........-------...--~ 

VIEWPOINT 
-
Ed11or-in-Chicf 
M,rna~ing Ediror/As,i.ranr ME 
News/Photo 
Spom 
SccndS,int Mary's 
Doy EdirorlVicwpoinc 
Offic(" f'i.1.anager!G("n<"ia.11nformati.on 
631-4542 Bu~ines~ Office 631-5.ilJ 631-45·1 I Advertising 631-6900/8840 6.11-5323 Systems G31-8839 631-4543 [,a>'; 631-6927 631-4540 \'iewpoinc E-t..1ail Viewpt>jnr.l@nd.edu 631.5.'103 Ad E-Mail ohserver@darwin.cc.nd.cdl1 6~ l-7471 News E-Mail observer.obsn~s.1@nd.edu 
¦ CAPPY'S CORNER 

We'll Miss You Woody, Rest In Peace 
Knute Rockne created the Stadium Usher Program for the opening of the sta­dium in 1930. Since that time, thousands of Ushers have participated in the pro­gram. Notre Dame has the largest pro­gram in the country, with no fewer than 750 Ushers working every game for the past seven decades, Most ushers work 
Cappy Gagnon 
until they can no longer handle the rigors of six hours of standing in stadium aisles for late November games. 
Several times each year, the Stadium Usher Program is visited by the Grim Reaper, as current or former ushers become absent friends. 
Stadium ushers are part of a vast per­sonnel "underground" at Notre Dame, working behind the scenes in places like the dining halls, laundry, mail distribution ccmter, Rockne Memorial, Health Services, Campus Security, etc. v\'hile nearly invisi­ble, and usually anonymous, to most peo­ple, these groups provide vital support functions. 
Although it is difficult for me to know every one of my ushers, one with whom I had become friends passed away recently. Charles N. Woods. 70, succumbed to com­plications of a heart attack on Saturday, Feb. 20. 
like most long-time ushers, Woody was very proud of his usher service. Listed prominently in his obituary notice was the item that Woodv "was an Usher in the stu­dent section for· Notre Dame football for many vears." 
St:iiium ushers can be divided into two groups: the larger group is made up of ushers who do not choose assignments in the student sections. This group cannot handle the stress of working around "spir­ited" students and not being able to find a place to sit. Woody was in the minority who enjoy standing with the world's greatest student body, cheering for the Irish. 
Like two-thirds of the stadium ushers. Woody received no compensation for his service, working just for the privilege of being a part of the Notre Dame family. 
Some students may perceive their ush­ers as grumpy old men. While reading through Woody's obituary and talking to some of his friends, I was able to piece together a little more of his life. 
He was a proud Mohegan Indian. He served his country in two wars, enlisting in the Marine Corps when he was barely of military age. during World War JI. lie was sent to the Pacific. A few years later, he was called back to duty during the Korean conflict. He had hoped for a career in professional baseball, but suf­fered an injury in Korea which curtailed 
his 
'J' IKE TWO-THIRDS OF LTHE STADIUM USHERS, 
WOODY RECEIVED NO COM­
PENSATION FOR HIS SERVICE, 
WORKING JUST FOR THE 
PRIVILEGE OF BEING A PART 
OF THE NOTRE DAME FAMI­
LY.' 
playing in the St. Louis Cardinals farm system. My two most recent memories of Woody were very pleasant ones. 
Last April. at the Blue-Gold G.1me, Woodv introduced me to his fiancee, Marilyn Golden, whom he married in July. He was very proud to show her where he worked as a stadium usher and to intro­
~'{~.:.Rt.:~:~~tk~i~.1;-;~~;
~ . '.',7:\<-k ·~.. · " -,-;/ -t : 

\j rr_·~..1 . . <$ f : ·. ~s, ,, · 1J .. --=-=--==-~·~··~-;;--~-~';~-;;,;-;;;·t;:;~==::::=:......J.._ _,ll~r:Q:E!'.Z!!!'.!~~ 
duce her to his boss and fellow ushers. 
In September, 1played a round of golf at Christiana Creek, where Woody had a part-time job. He was outside the club­house while I was teeing off. Woody was kind enough to withhold giggles When 1 chili-dipped a couple of shots from the first tee, 
WPi can learn a lot about people when we discover where their heart is aimed. Woody's obituary notice suggested that contributions could be made to the Muscular Dystrophy Association, in mem­ory of a deceased son; the Elkhart County Humane Society; or the Ara Parseghian Foundation. 

So long, Woody. I hope you can enjoy watching the Irish from a comfortable scat. 
Cappy Gagnon. '66. supervises the Stadium Usher Program. His column appears every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily tho.<;e ofThe Observer. 
¦ DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 

¦ 0UOTE OF THE DAY 
,Make yourself neces­
sary to somebody.' -Ralph Waldo Emerson 

VIEWPOINT 

MonJay, March I, 1999-------------------os~tRVER page 9 
¦ THE COMMON Gooo 
The Moral Limits ofPrivate Property 
In my columns thus f'ar, I havo iirguiid that tho m~11-1·onsl'rvativ11 rnjnclion of economic rights consti­tutes dissimt from <:atholic teaching. I havn alsu shown how this rnjnclion is linked with a number of otlrnr daims that ar11 at varinnco with o!licial teach­ing. inclwling I.hr claims that Catholic teaching 
Todd David Whitmore 
backs a singln economic system, that thn rich-poor gap is 110L morally rdc~vant. and that consumerism is 1101 a major moral threat Today I focus on t.h,i quns­tion of prirntP prop1•rty and wlwther thnrn arn limiL-; to lrnw much w1• can procurn for our own w.;11. 11,wn I will arglu• that although Midmnl Novak claims that tlwr<' an• moral limits to thn private• uso orwealth. sw:h daims in his book 'Thn Catholic Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism" am ,imply. They hav11 no real Iiirm or conlnnt. and in this way divnrgo from C11tl101ic lnachin~. · 
W(' ran ll(•gin to SP!' how this is Urn case in t1\rms of'tlu• sourTPS upon which Im draws. I havn shown in prnvious rnlumns how Novak rnlirn,; on Adam Smith and cil1is ltw latlt\r f'avornblv at. s1wl'ral points, partinrlarly with rngard to'th1i rnjnction of llw moral signifirancP of tlw gap IJ11Lw111in rich and poor. Both hold that irn-rmtsPd produclion ofwnallh in a rnpitalist 1•rnnomy makPs tlw rich-poor quns­lion moot. Smith is lt>ss lwlpf'ul, lwwPv1ir, on Urn q11«'stior1 of Ll11• limits to privatn prop,n-ly. This is iiPnit1sP Catholic tnarhing provides a ckar frame­work liir rt>stricting what WP can USP for ourselvns, whilP Smith dm•s not. Th1i h1tt1•r writ<!s that private pl'llJl('rty giws a 1wrson, "sole! claim to a subjcwt, 1•xl'lt1siw or all olhPrs, hut can us1• it himsPlf as Im t.hinks fit. and il'IH• plf•as!'s ahusn and dnstroy it" (I.P1'lllrPs on .lurisprud1'11l'I', A ( I 7(12-(i3), vol. i: 9­1m. NDvak knows this is in dl'ar conflict with Calholif' t1•aching. am! so turns to .John LockP. 
Lock(• snls out natural law limits to llw possession of' privatP prop<>rty, and Novak claims that thPS!\ line! strong paralll'ls with tlw limits plarnd on pri­VHlP protH·rty by Cat.holir lmtching's insistl'IH"I' that tlw 1-rt•ah•d goods of llll' world have a "univnrsal dPslinatio11" -that is, that c;od intnnds thmn !'or Pvnryorrn -and that whilci pnrsons have a riylll to privatP propnrty. thn ww of lhat propPrty has limits ("Thn Catholi1'. 1·1hk". I l1J ANIJ 1:i I fl)) Close 1•xami­nation ol' I.orkP's tlwory of prop1irty, how1wm·. indi­rnll'S that whilP lw was likPly sincPrn in his efforts to plan' 11al11ral limits on tlw llSI' of privato prop1wty, tlw limits ani Pmpty. h1 tlw narly stag<'s of Locko's "stall• of nalllrn." tlrnrP am three limitations to the a1T11111ulalio11 of propi,rty. The first WI' can call Urn "spoilagP rnnstraint." A pnrson Glll rightfully appro­pria11• only as much pro1wrty as will not spoil or go lo wast.• t"S1•cond Trnatisn on (;overnnrnnt". sec'.ts. :i I and :16-:{8}. Spoi!agP is against tlw f'undamontal law ol' Irnttm' lwcausP it waslos that which is inlnnd­1•d hy c;od to hdp prnscwvo humankind. s,~cond, tlwn• is what W<' ran rail an "industry constraint." 01w can claim only as n11ll'h propc1rty as mw can mix with orw's labor (sPcts. 31 and :1<1l. Finally, in light or tlw l'undanwnta! law or naturP, then~ is a "prt>st•rvation nmstraint." 

OnP cai, approprial!! only as mtwh as still allows for !.tw 1m•s1•rvalion orothnrs. "For this Labor being llw lllHfUPstionahll~ l'roprnty ol' lhn 1.ahornr, no Man hut lw can have a right to what that is onco joined lo. at IPast wlwr.-lhnrn is nnough. and as good lefl in n11111non for otlmrs" (s,icl. 27, d'. also 331. For all prartira! purposos, tlw presorvntion constraint al. this point in tlm statn or nature is limctionlnss lm1'.ausl' of' the vasl 1\x1mnsc or 111mppropriatnd lan<l at llw linw. I lnw1wnr. llw two otlwr constraints ­spoilagP and industry -function to put a limit on tlw innqualily of prnpm-ty. 
Ilowciw•r. I.ockP allows the introduction or mmwy prior lo the social contract, and this permits persons to appropriaw "lnrger PossnsHions. and a Hight to tlwm" (sPets. :if,.J7l. Monny hypasses tht• spoilage m11slmint lmnwsP. simply put. gold and silvnr do nol rot. A person may "lmnp up as much of' these durable things as lw p!Pased; tlw Pxceeding o!'the bot111ds of his just Propnrty not lying in the largeness or his l'oss1•ssion. hut tlw pNishing of anything use­l1•ssly in it" (sect. 4(i; rf 50). Money also enlarges lhe irulustry mnslraint, IL<; it allows on,1 to purchasll anotlwr's labor for wag1\S (Locke drn•s not argU1\ this out in dcilail. hut it is cPrtainly in the text and his ass11mptions. Cf. snct. 85.L Finally, thn introduction or money allows Locke to reinterpret the preserva­tion constraint. Prior to monny, one has to leave as much and as good for others "at least where there is enough" (sect. 27). However, the introduction of money makes land scarce (sect. 45; cf. 36). Still, because the private appropriation ofland produces so much more than land left und1weloped, even those who arc left without property by the introduc­Uon ofmonoy will be helter oiT. In Locke's words, "A King oralarge and fruitful Territory [in America] fends, lodges, and is clad worse than a day Laborer in England" (secL 41.). There appear, therefore, to be no substantive limits to the right to property. 
The pattern is similar in Novak's thought: any lim­its are in name only. While he does cite the teaching on the universal destination orcreawd goods /llld the distinction between the right to private property and the legitimate use of that proporty, he nowhere works out what this might mean substantively. On the contrary, his claim that in a capitalist economy the dynamic production of wealth renders the rich­poor gap morally moot also entails that any natural law limit-; on tho private use of wealth arc beside the point as well as long as the less well-off are far­ing better than in the other economic altornativos identified as presently possible. This is why Novak can rnducc the distinction between "being" and "having" -which John Paul II links closely with the problem of the rich-poor gap -to a sense of "won­der" towards thl~ goods one has accumulated and gratitude "to the will ol' God who created us lo be where we are" ("The Catholic Ethic", 2041. 
In otlrnr words. Novak in ofiect reduces 1.hc natur­al law limits on the use of private propnrty to admonishnrnnt'i to the wealthy lo thank Goel that limy am rich. lie is indeed emphatic that the well-off should give to charily. This is why the last chapter in "Business as a Calling" is dramatically titled "Giving it t\11 Away." However. such giving is a matter of a lrnroic call beyond the natural law norm. not of what is rnquirod. Therefore. in Novak's account. the wf•ll-off cannot lose.Them arn no natural law limil'i to thn use of private property. so if one is a scrooge, then• is (unlike in Dickens! no condemnation; yet ff tlrn wnll-otrdo share their goods with others, the former are lauded. In short, in Novak's account, the wnll-off can become saints through giving away their wealth, but hn provides no way for identifying wlrnn they arn sinners. 
In Catholic teaching, however. the emphasis on thn universal destination of created goods and on the distinction between the right lo privatr, property and the legitimate use of that property has the force of requirement. John Paul II writes in "Centesimus Annus," that "the church teaches that the posses­sion of material goods is not an absolute right, and that its limits arn inscribed in its very nature as a human right" !par. 30). lie then draws on the con­cept of the universal destination of goods (par. 31) to argue, "It is a strict duty ofjustice and truth not to allow fundamental human needs to rnmain unsatis­lied, and not to allow those burdened by such needs to perish" (par. 34). The Pope later makes clear that incrnasing the production wealth and giving out of "charity" what one has lert over is an inadequate response to the love of neighbor manifest in making thn destination of goods indeed universal. "Love for others, and in the first place love for the poor, in whom the church sees Christ himself. is made con­crntc in the promotion ofjustice. For this to happen, it is not enough to draw on the surplus goods which in fact our world abundantly produces; it requires above all a change in lifestyles, of models of produc­tion and consumption, and of the established struc­tures of power which today govern societies" (par. 
58). 
SL1ch requirements for concretn personal and structural change in John Paul's writings reveal the lack of substance in Novak's claim to set natural law limiL'> mi the use of private property. Novak at one point notes that thorn arc differences betweon Locke and the Pope, but he never tells us what they aro. Th1i result, both in imprnssion created and in actual conttmt. is a theory of political economy that is, once again, more classical liberal than it is Catholic. 
In my next column. I will show how one direct implication of the requirement to do more than give out of one's surplus is what ean be called tho "maxi­mum living wage," and I will challenge Novak to idcntiry what he thinks such a maximum wage should be. Only by identifying such a concrete limit will his thnorNical claims have any substance. 
Todd David Whitmore is an associate pr<~{essor in the department ofThtiology. /!is column usually appears every utlzer Friday. 
11w views expressed in this column are lhose of the author and not necessaril!J those ofThe Observer. 

¦ LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
The Pen is Mightier Than the 'Sword' 
f:or the pasts~veral months, I have found myself feeling 
slckabout evi!ryother Tuesday. 
Even though it usually happ,ms while I'm eating lunch, it 
isn'tdue to tbe egg rolls. It happens while I read The 
Ol>server, spectflcally Sean Vinck's column. I don't know if it's 
hjswords or his attitude that ca.use my nausea, but I delinite­
ty can trace feeling ill to his column. Recently though, I havo · found myself laughing during these Tuesdays at lunch. Why this sudden change of heart? Allow me to explain my three 
reasons: 

First, Sl'an Vinck's writing is so selr-cuntradictory as to be 
amusing. In his last column, ho envisioned a ~catholicism 
strictly enforced'" university. Anyone who committed acts 
contrary to Church teaching would be dismissed. Soan 
claimed that 10 percent of the people would he gone immedi­
ately. In fact, 100 percent of the peoplo would bn dismissed. 
Tire Catholic church does not condone sin, right? So every 
sinful act would be contrary to Church teaching. And who 
among us is without sin? [ ciin't spoo.k for the lloly Sean 
Vinck, but I believe that humans are born with sin, and it is 
God's love that forgives us. This basic premise of Catholicism 
seems to have been conveniently overlooked by someone 
claiming to write about true Christianity. 
Second, Vinck seems to be a one-trick pony. While his anti­
homosexualitywritings slekened me before, ihey have now 
lostall effect. It sooms Vinck cannot find 1mottwr topic to fill 
his allottedspace and must resort to the same old thing instead of thinking of a new argument. Sean made his point on this topic long ago, and now he seems tn content lo 1111 thP remainder ofhis columns this year by running his point into the ground. We get it Sean, you're a bigot. Now tell us some­thing new next time. 
Third, I find amusement in the fact that Sean Vinck is a 
coward. It's incredibly easy to spout the extreme opinions 
that he does when 85 percent of your readers ,1ither agree 
with you or don't care enough about the topic to argue with 
you. Enjoy it while it lasts, Sean. Eventually you'll have to 
leave Notre Dame and go into the "real world." There, you'll 
find that your views won't be tolerated, either i11gally or 
socially. Homosexuals enjoy the same rights as heterosexuals 
nearly everywhere but on campus, and our president. a 
Democrat, recently avoided removal from office. Most 
Americans did not ravor his removal, and his approval rating 
remains high. Not that I respect what he did, I just mean to 
point out that after Sean graduates, his views will be in the 
minority, instead of the majority. 
Let him try to speak his opinions at his new job, and we·n 
see how long he lasts there. My guess is that Sean won't be 
quite so outspoken once his built-in audiMC(~ orsupportors is 
gono, 

So enjoy your Observer space while it lasts Sean. You've got 
a.bout another two years to say whatever you want. I hope 
you're at least getting something out of it bocausn your poor 
writing is not enlightening anyone else. 
Ryan S. Davis 
Junior Morrissey Manor February 27, l ')99 

If you are interested in 
-
writing for Viewpoint during the 1999-2000 school year, submit two sample columns of 800 words to Colleen in the basement of SDH by Monday, March 15, 1999. 


---------------­···~ ­ .,._.. -w--­ 
page 10  §eOTHE BSERVER  ----------------Monday, March I, 1999  

Life truly is a beautiful thing 

Was there ever a job you didn't like? 
"Life is Beautiful" 
Director: Roberto Benigni 
Starring: Roberto Benigni, Nicoletta Braschi, Giustino Durano, Sergio Bini Bustric and Maria Paredes 
. .
~-. :,. ) 
-'':,.] ...,i] ...,s.) _j'i;J (Out of five shamrocks) 
By V. VAN BUREN GILES 
Scene Movie Criric 
I was torn between watching "Life is Beautiful" and "Al1liction." I knew little to nothing about either film all I knew was that one was American and· the other was foreign. 
Like a true American I was going tu take the easy way out -to seu the local Hollywood production where I would know all the actors and be able to listen to the words instead of having to read subtitles for two straight hours. ·Based on the Litle alone, "Life is Beautiful," I assumed it to be some European love story lilied with no-name actors. My igno­rant American mind would not be both­ered wilh such a gross display of a cul­ture that was unfamiliar. 
Not lo take anything away from "Atniction," but I am very happy with the choice I made. "Life is Beautiful" is one of the best and most powerful films I have ever seen. It centers ai·ound a young man courting a beautiful woman. 
The story begins as an Italian mixture of "Lady and the Tramp" and "Romeo and Juliel." Set in Italy during World War II, we first meet the salt of the earth in the form of the tramp (Roberto Benigni), who is a waiter in a luxurious hotel and restaurant. Then we are introduced to the lovely school teacher, Dura (Nicoletta Simple Plan"l. In addition,
"Office Space" 
Peter finds it within his new self to start up a romance with the beautiful
Director: Mike Judge 
waitress from Chotchki's 
-a TGI Friday's knockoff 
-named Joanna (Jennifer
Starring: Ron Livingston, Jennifer 
Aniston, Gary Cole, Alexandra 
Aniston, "Friends", "Object 
Wentworth and Stephen Root 
of My Affection"). They for­
:'J11 Ji1 
(Out of five shamrocks) 
ByBILLFUSZ Scene Movie Critic 
"Oflice Space" is the live-action debut from "Beavis and Butthead" creator, Mike Judge. For sonrnone v,ith such illustrious origins, Judge turns in a surprisingly fresh movie which be wrote and directed. UnfortunatPly, though, too many diches and a weak plot leave too many holes. 
Th() film stars Ron Livingston ("Swingers"! as Peter Gibbons, a software engineer at lnilech, which becomes the butt of all the corporate culture humor throughout tlm movie. Peter soon roaches a new plane of existence, however, when his therapist. dies during a hypnosis seg­ment and Peter, apparently, never snaps out or it. This strange scene where his shrink dies as Peter gazes into space hap­pily serves as the catalyst for the coming action. 
Poking fun at the absurdity of corporate culture, ~1ike Judge has his protagonist ditching work, but still getting a promotion from lhe new consultant, against the wish­es of his "evil, soul-less boss," played by Gary Cole ("A Very Brady Sequel," "A the al.ready formed happiness -Guido is Jewish. In Italy during the World War IL there is no greater curse. 
Eventually Guido and his son Joshua are removed fi:om their home and set en route lo a concenlration camp. When 
Photo courtesy of Miramax Pictures If you are debating whether Roberto Benigni directs and stars in the comedy, "Ute is or not to see this lilm, just do Beautiful." 
Braschi}, who comes from a prominent and wealthy family. Though already engaged to another "who's who' of society, Dora falls madly in love and marries this childish wailer, Guido. They are a match made in heaven, and wilh Lim arrival of their lirst child, Joshua, it scorns like the gods are lrn.pvy and noth­ing could possibly go wrong. 
As is the caso with all perfect unions, a problem arises which could destroy 
tunately share a love for late night kung-fu movies. 
From here on out the movie .winds into a thin and absurd plot-line in which Peter and some employees who are due to 
be laid off, arrange to steal a great deal of money from the company. 
Jt's another cliche payback move in a movie full of cliche. The jokes on corpo­rate culture are infrequently fresh, usually sounding as if they have been recycled from NBC's "Working" or any number of other workplace sitcoms. It's painful to hear lhe same jokes about consultants. deadlines and customer-engineer rela­tions -which "Dilbert" and others have done so well -ma.i.;sacred so badly hy the onscreen presentation. 
Ac; dumb as the majority of the film was, I did laugh -very hard in fact -at some parts. That's why I'm holding on to some hope for Mike Judge's l'uturn in live­action, whereas most critics have com­pletely trashed him thus far. The Tarantino spoof scenes, involving mean­looking software engineers walking between cubicles, tossing disks back and forth and smashing,a copy machine with a baseball bat -while set in slow-motion to gangster rap -is genius. I laughed hard­er al those parts than r have at anything else iu a movie since last summer's "There's Something About Mary." 
Dora finds this out -even though slrn is nol Jewish -she pleads and is finally allotted a spot on the train which will take the entire family to the peril and danger or the German facility. 

Though Guido understands the seriousness of his family's situation. he will nol dare allow his son to learn of the horrors taking place. lnslflad. he explains that tho camp and its brutal activities are all part of a giant game to see who can win the most points. After careful explanations from his father, Joshua begins to see the prisoners as mere players in this elaborate test to win the prize which he thinks is a tank. Guido's comical view oft.he war sets Joshua's mind at Photo courtesy of Mirama>:' Pictures case while he hides hb frum the SS Roberto Benigni shelters his son from the evil 
guards who have already murdered sights of the Holocaust in "Life is Beautiful." 
the other children and elderly per­
sons in the camp. With all the chaos and death surrounding him, Guido's spirits are never dampened. Each time Joshua hears pieces of the truths involving soap and buttons, Guido fabricates another lie so that the quest !'or points will seem all the more real. .lust whnn you think tho game is over -that either Joshua will learn the truth, or Guido and his wife will be killed -some tremendous act of courage or kindness occurs which keeps the fami­ly alive. The film is breathtakingly '!'°' runny and sad. The opening 50 minutes are filled with ouliandish humor and pow­erful romance. The last 70 minutes keep you even more enthralled in the story as the stakes get raised with the war coming to a close. 
The other part which I thought I would enjoy was the fact that Jennifer Aniston was starring. Unfortunately, contrary to what the previews would have you believe -her on-screen time is very sparse indeed. This is not just an aesthetic com­plaint either -more onscreen time for Aniston would have allowed for Judge to develop the relationship botween her character and Peter. Instead, we see them it. Not one bad thing can be said about it. and after the first 10 minutes you hardly even notice the subtitlos. If you can over­come your inhibitions about. a fornign lilm, I promise you will walk oul or the theater with a warm feeling of accom­plishment. 


Roberto Benigni directs and stars in the film as the Italian version of Charliri Chaplin. "Life is Beautiful" is up for Best Picture, Best Director and Best Actor ­snven Academy Awards in total. After witnessing B!'nigni's pnrl'ormance. Tom llanks should not be a shoo-in for this year's most coveted acting award. 
The ..movie is also nominated for Best Foreign Language Film, which would make it the first sinc11 1971 's "The Emigrants" lo rn·coive nominations l'or both Best Foreign Language Picture and Best Picture. 
Overall, the l'ilm is a triumph or the human will. It proves that when all is practically lost. there is always hop11 and lovn. In a year lillnd with excdl!mt World War II movies, it is nice to see a lilm that keeps you away from all tho bloodslwd on the beaches at Normandy or Guadalcanal -still expressing ail tlrn heartaclrn and emotion of the war. 
Livingston?" 
No, it's not. 
"ls this an extended. witty discoursn on corporate culture?" 
Extended, yes. Witly, not for the most part. 
Instead the movie drags on with a mer­ciless boredom and at no point contains the kind of masterful plot that "Mary" had. It was a weak first effort on .Judge's part 

Photo courtesy of 20th Centu,y Fox 

Jennifer Aniston and Ron Livingston converse in "Office Space." 
cuddle during a kung fu movie, which isn't enough reason for anyone to sympathize when the relationship turns sour. 
Finally, the plot is woefully underdevel­oped and too slow. The main conflict iif this movie doesn't even appear until the movie is half over, leaving the audience for the ftrst half of the movie to wonder, "What's going on here? Is this a romantic comedy about Jennifer Aniston and l{on -this is true. But it should be kept in mind that it was his first effort. 

The gems or the movie -the "Pulp Engineering" segment -arc enough to inspire hope in whatever Judge's next lilm is and to encourage the rental of "OITice Space" for a boring weekend once it hils video stores. But Llwy am not nnough to suggest that it's worth thn $7 .50 at tlrn th1iatcrs. 

llllil'a--~..-------_,,--.__.~=-..,_...,____,..____-.w_..w-:....sc_______a;a___~•,.--,.'""-------•------= 
Monday, March I, 1999 
¦ 185-POUND DIVISION TO HEAVYWEIGHT 


Romanchek ends Gaffneys undefeated streak 
By KEVIN THOMPSON Spons Writer 
18!i-Pound llivision 
Tlw torrh was passed nn Friday night as MikP "t-:1 l'nscador" Homanclwk dl'throrwd lhrrn•-tinw champion, senior Cal'f'rwy Brian "The Nulty Irishman" <;al'frwy in a priceless thrne-round battle. 
Two y1·ars ag{) th1•s1' warriors locknd horns at BPngal Bouts. Tlw sophmnorn (;,dTncy l}(istcd Homanr.hck in a spilt d11cisio11. 
Coming into Friday's fight, c;amwy had domi11atPd tlw co111p1•titio11 l'or f'uur y1!ars. Parning thrc~e BPngnl Bout LiUns. 
Number l'uur, howt1vnr. nludnd him. 
Tlw stalwart l!omandwk, a junior <:ap­tai n. was too mut'h (;arr1wy handln, l'Olllll(iring most !)Vl'rything c;arrncy thniw al him. Gnffrwy stayed on tlrn attack ll11• m1tirc light but could not put lognt.lwr a cousisLenL c:ombinat.ion to con­vincp f'Vl'ry judges. 
"I wnnl!1d to go out there and box, nut 
brawl," llomanchek said. "l knew l would be in trouble if I tried to match him punch for punch. So I tried to throw some straight jabs, hard rights and hope­fully have him do the same." 
Chants of "Gaffney" rang out as the fighters headed into the final round. The outcome was in doubt until the final bell; Homanchek won with a split decision. 
After the tight, the two battle-scarred champions and good friends embraced amid a standing ovation. lfomanchek still praisnd his oppomml for providing great leadership to tho boxing program in his four years. 
"I have rnally lonked up to Brian [Gaffney!. I havn a great rcspccl for him. I have watclwd tho way ho works with young boxPrs. lie sets a trnmcndous oxamplll !'or Lhem in and outside the ring." said Homanr:hek. 
190-Poum.l Division 
The drnma of' the Homanchek/Gaffncy bout was a tough act to follow, but Dave "Bnll-Vngas" But.z and Mike "It llurls Morn Tlian ll Fnels (;ood" Yellen did the joh. 
Butz's patient attack prnvailed over Vciltmi punishing hands. The two soniors spent the first two rounds sizing each othnr up and looking 
sec 185 LB/ page 3 

¦ 125-POUNDTO 145-POUND DIVISION 
Will reclaims title with unanimous decision 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Spons Ediror _ 
f25~P:ound l)ivision 
In tho spirit of t:rtie sportsman­ship, .Jason McMahon decided to postpone his championship bout since his opponent. Kevin Overbeck, could not attend the finals because of a medical school interview. The bout will be fought tonight at 5 p.m. in the boxing room. 
135-Pound Division 
With an aggrnssi.vc style and big rights, senior Charles Madden earned his nrst cbampioriship in a split docision victory owir strnior David Seerveld. 
"It is kind of overwhelming," Madden said. "I kind of think that I don't deserve it because it is my first year. Most of the guys that won 

have betm fighting for four years." 
It was a match where both boxers 
landed solid punches and then 
rapidly l'ound themselvtis on the 
receiving end. 
Seerveld's combinations wure not 
enough tn load him to victory. As 
the third round wound down. 
Madden landed several scoring 
punches to give him the edgo. 
Thrnc solid rights and shnnr determination helped Madden ·claimed the title in the l35-pound 
division. 
"Tho first couple of rounds worn 
pretty tight," Madden said. "I 11 the 
third round, I was tired. I saw that 
ho was tirr.d. So we w~mi both tirod, 
and I realized that then I felt bol­
ter." 
Maddon's third-round spirit gavo 
him the odgo to take tho lead ancl 
the title. 
see 125 LB/ page 2 

page 2 The Observer• BENGAL BOUTS Monday, March I, 1999 ¦ 150-POUND TO 163-PO!JI\IO DIVISION 
Freshman sensation Hernandez upsets division favorite 

The third round proved much the same as Alexander received one more standing-eight count. Nowak's power 


By KATHLEEN LOPEZ 
Sports Editor 
150-Pound Dh'ision 
freshman Edward "El Papoose" Hernandez's fooisieps haunted defend­ing champion junior ,LIL Me.llin from the beginning of tlw tournament. 
The second-seeded lliwnan<lez entered the ring Friday and showr.d the. to!) seed that to upset a defending champion one needs speed, footwork and a lough counterattark. 
While !\1cllin got in some hits and landt:id some unexpecu,d combinations, he could not rally in the end, 
Mellin goi the final suy of the first round as he landed a huge IHft and sent Hr,rnandez reeling, but Herrnrndez's lefts were too much for the Bengal's captain. 
The freshman finally worked Mellin's eye, leaving him heavily c'ut by the bout's end 
Hernandez won his first title by unani­mous decision, wowing the crowd and his massivn cher,ring section. 
155-Pound Division 
With one solid punch, senior Tom Cronlcy's title slipped away. 
His light with senior Dave "The Hock" Murphy proceeded as expncted until the start of the third round. when Murphy came out aggressive and threw a punch that caught Cronley off-guard. 
Murphy claimed the 155-pound title when the rel'eree stopped the contest just 20 seconds into the third round. 
"It feels great," Murphy said_ "It is something that I worked real hard for, and I am extremely happy. 
"It meant a lot to me and my family, It was a real special time," he said. 
Cronley controlled the majority of the fight, during which his technical style and long reach appeared too much for Murphy. 
"I had lo come out big," Murphy said about his mentality coming into the third r0tmd. "I knew it was close. I knew I had to come out to win." 
The fight was one of determination, with earh contender trying to win his first Bengal Bouts championship. Murphy's aggressive style and huge flur­ry in thn third gave him the shot ho needed. 
160-Pound Division 
Senior Mike "Lockdown" LaDuke's aggressive style gave him the ultimate edge in Lhis fight, but senior Josh "Is My Pirst Name But My Last Name Is" Kirley put on a show, taking LaDuke the full three rounds in an evenly fought match. 
At one point, LaOuke barked Kirley in the ropes so hard that he almost f'ell out of the ring, 
While LaDukc's aggressive boxing wore on his competitor, Kirley often took advantage of the intensity. 1.n the third round, Kirley rallied and landed several shots. 
In the end, LaDuke successfully defended his title and won his second­straight Bengal Bouts championship. 
16:i-Pound Division 
No love was lost in this fight. 
Sean "The Erie Kid" Nowak and Travis Alexander came out fast and furi­ous. Alexander controlled the ring, land­ing a series of combinations which earned him a standing-eight count. Nowak appeared in control of the first round. . 
Both came out swinging again in the second round. Nowak found himself on the receiving end as Alexander came out fast and furious, but he boxed his way out with a strong right cross. 
Alexander once again found himself in a corner, and Nowak's hits earned. Alexander his second standing-eight count of the match. 
Charles "The Montana Mauler'' Madden brought home the 135-pound division championship in his first Bengal Bouts. 

was too much for his tired opponent as Nowak claimed his first Bengal Bouts title with a unanimous decision. 
125 LB 

continued from page I 
145-Pound Division 
The third time's a charm_ 

Tommy Will learned just that Friday nighi at the 69th annual Notre Dame Bengal Bouts. 
The senior entered the ring wiih a final chance to earn back the tit!<\ he surrendered to Lucas Molina last year in the 135-pound finals, 
"I came in wanting to box as best I could," Will said. "I want­ed to make my friends, my f'ami­ly and myself proud." 
The only person standing in ihe way for Will was his friend and fellow captain, junior Mike Maguire. But not even Maguire's powerful punches could stop Will from taking back his title. 
"It is ev1irything I'd hoped it would ho," Will said about his victory. "It feels great. These past four years hen~ have been just an incredible experience," 
Will came out on the opening bell with a tremendously tight defense. Maintaining tight hands throughout all thrne rounds, the aggressive Maguire landed most or his punclws. 
"I tried to attack and not hang around too much," Will said_ "If' you hang around, Miko will really take it to you. I was abli; to be really aggressive in the third." 
Will's patient yet aggrnssive style gave him the extra boost While the two kept it close in the first two rounds, Will came out in Urn third and immediately backed Maguire into tho ropes, securing the championship title in the 145-pound division. 
"I have all tho respect in the world for Mike Maguirn," Will said. "He put up a great fight and he really kept il close." 
P!J5! SS;J.-UG a C e il DJ &
• -== 
Monday, March I, 1999 The Observer• BENGAL BOUTS page 3 
¦ 165-POUNO TO 180-POUNO DIVISION 
Biolchini controls ring, triumphs over Penn 
By KERRY SMITH )>ports Wrorc_r________ 
165-pound division 

NPitlwr c·ontnnder in tlw I (,5­pound division sc!'mcd clauntnd by tlw Jll'l\SSUre of tlrn largn vocal crowd nor lhn stn•ss of' l"ighling !'or 1.lw championship litfo. 
.I II nior l'i rs t-and s0 r o tHI ­;;nnds Tom "Polly Prissy 1'1t11ts" lliolchini and Don ".Juan Tim !Jnstroy(q·" Pnnn Pn Lnr1icl tlrn ring n•ady Lo 11ght. 
/\s tlw lwll snmHINI to begin lh1~ first round, lrnth f'ightc\rs showed tlwir dderrnination lo Parn tlrn winning titl1i. Coming out strung in a.II lhrnc rounds, Biolchini and P1inn excl1ang1~d p1111dws for much of tlrn fight. 
"TliP guys i11 my first two lights canH\ out strong, so I was nxpnrting ll'mrnl to do tlrn same frorn t.hn start," said Biold1i11i. "And when Urnt lmppPns you can't f'oo! arnund nr you're going to ios11 points." 
Bioh:hini's mntrol ol' Llw ren­lt\r ol' tlw ring and slrong right 1h•!Prmi1wd tlw outconrn of' tlw f'i g h l. In th f' t' 111I , Bio le hi n i ,)ar&wd a 1111,mimous decision. 
"I tricrl to stay focus,~d and throw a lot or combinations," said Biokhini. "And in doing Llwl I managnd lo land a lot or 
p111H:lws." 
l'<•1m's quicknnss and strong footwork kPpl him in the light and mad«' Biolchini work for nvciry landed punch. 
"I krww ll'm111I was a tough lightPr and that it wasn'l going lo lw Pasv." continued Bioll'l1ini. "li'r• fought grnat. liv1•11 in t.lw third round wlrnn WI' Wl'l'!' hoth tin\d, lw landPd a lot of" pu11t·l11•s." 
185 LB 
continued from page 1 
l'or Llw otlwr lo rnakn a sPrious 1'1111. 
V1dUin rn11ld 1101 unload his pow1~r 011 Butz Parly. BuLz slowly w11n' down his oppo­11,•nl with SC'Vtiral quick jabs wlw11Pvnr Vcdwn camn in too rlosn, which hPlp<'d him put togel.lwr sonw punishing com­hinal.ions lati~r in tlw light. 
/\L l'ighl's crnd, lrnth wcrn obviously s1w11t, but Butz had slightly morP in rPsPrVl' and gainPd Lim dPcision. 
/\flpr Sf'ltling l'or runrwr-t1p two ynars i11 a row and drop­ping a split dl't:ision in tlw finals last Vt!ar. Butz f'arnnd his first lkr;gal Bouts titln. 
"Tlw Bouts arn important in dif'fornnt ways." said Butz. "W1! are out lwrn for charity, but Lim hnuts help you improvt\ pr~rsonal!y. You lnarn to snl goals and accomplish 
Llll'm." 
I 'J!i-Pound Division 

Jal,, Jab, I look. 
Tlw words f'Ch1H'd l'rom Llw c·onrnr of l'otP "Ill-al t.1!1• Hap" llyan 1:rid:1y nii,;ht.. Hyan con­LrollPd lh1\ tt•mpo against /\l,1x Kent witlt Sl'Vt~ral St\ric•s ol' vi<·ious jab 1·u m hinalions. Fvl'nlually 1.hn soplionrorn worP down K1•111 to post a vii'• Lory in tlw I 'JS-pound drnmpi­011ship. 
KPttl sliowPd sonw signs or 
170-pound division 
Favorite Alex "The Corn Cob Kid" Kerrigan stnppPd onto th<' mat determined to prove his No. 1 ranking against MikA "I Ionoy" I lammns. 
Struggling in tlrn 11rst round, KNrigan secured the win late in the light when he bngan uti­lizing his right-hand µownr. 
"Nothing was working at all during the first round," saitl Kerrigan. "But once I started using my right it had an AlTect. Thore was a big change or momontum." 
llarnmcs causl'd trouble for Kerrigan early. The junior chal­lenger fought closA and landfld several jabs to Knrrigan's body. 
"lllamnrnsl was a very good fightpr. I ln liknd to charge a lot, which was something I didn'L enjoy," continued Kerrigan. "lfo trind to throw a lot of bodv shots and he ended up doing ~ lot of work on my body and a little on my face." 
Throughout the three-round fight. Hammes trind to draw Kerrigan in close and caused many lock-ups botwncn the two light0rs. The differ0nce came in tlrn third round when Kerrigan rofusml to be held and hegan to box out of llrn holds. 
K,~rrigan put tlrn fight away with ]0 seconds remaining in the 11nal round when his strong right knockPd llammcs to the mat and almost out of the ring. 
175-pound division 
Law student Trent "Kid Kokomo" Sandifur pulled off three consecutive upscts lo oarn the championship title. 
Facing off against No. 2 Steve "The Angry l'irato" Pfeiffer-in tlw linal round, Sandif'ur relied 
brilliance, backing up Hyan with sevnral comhinalions, but it was llyan's quickness off llrn jab that made the difference. 
Hyan, a sophomoro, has wor1 two straight B<'ngal !fouls titles. 
Ilcavywcight nivision 
When John "Pitbull" Salvino entered the ring Friday night for his lrnavywoighl match-up with (;reg "Hain Man" Yatarola, ho had the look of a vicious Pitbull. 
When he saw the Yatarola's unorthodox strategy, he looked more !ik<' a confosod Pilhull. 
Yalarnla came right at Salvino with a low stance and a wild up-dosP attack to over­come him with a split decision. The fight resembled a wrnstling match morn than a boxing match as tile boxers worn flung into the ropes sev­t1ntl limos. 
"It was dolinitcly dillir.ult to· handle," explained Salvino. "I basically tried to gnt out of his way and hit him as ho wnnt past 11w." 
Yatarola w,1nt down St'vnral limns. but atlribulcd his fail­ings morn to his forward stanc1\ than Salvino's actual blows. 
Salvino was unahln to u11!oacl on Yatarola with f'ull nxte11sion hm:ausP of tho pair's proximity. hut ho did mam1gn to land s,w,md shots that left his opponnnt windncl 1rnough lo seorn llrn split dndsion. 
Thank you tor reading The Observer. 
on his huge right to carry him through the Lhrce-round bout. 
"Winning was great. It felt rnally good," said Sandifur. "Thero were a lot of law stu­d0nts that canrn to watrh, and to win in front of them was grnat." 
Battling illnnss throughout tho toumament, Sandil'ur was coneernod about his endurance ,mtering the 11nal round. 
"[ had been in and out of the infirmarv nil week with bron­chitis," said Sandifur. "So I was nervous going into the fight about being able to last the whole six minutr,s." 
Sandifur's concerns were 
soon alleviated  as Im put on  a  
strong performance to earn  a  
split-decision victory.  

Pf'eifl'er's e·arly jab mused Sandifur some trouble, but Sandifur's combinations proved too mur.h for his opponent. 
"I spent the first round trying to f'igurc out how to parry his jab," said Sandifur. "Then I concentrated on getting some combinations in and getting out." 
HW-pouncl division 
No. 2 Paul "You Better Hccognize. Chump" Chen was true lo form. 
Dominating the ring, his con­trolled and patient attack was too much for senior Alex Kent to combat. Chen's unanimous decision victory came after a strong thr6e-round perfor­mance. 
"It didn't seem real," Chen said of the win. "It all happened so fast that it didn't really set in until aaerwards." 
Quick and accurate jabs cou­pled with a strong defense were keys to Chen's success. 


"My game plan was to dictate "So I had to focus on getting in the fight and use the jab," said some three-punch combinations Chen. "My jab seemed to be and getting out quickly." working well for me." The challengr,r's counter­
Kent relied heavily on his left punches kept him in the light, during the first two rounds but it was not enough for an before utilizing the power in his upset. Chen delivered a barrage right during the third. of punches as the final bell 
"[Kent] is really good at rang, ending tlrn fight as strong counter-punching," said Chen. as he began. 


BENGAL BOUTS RESULTS 
125 -Kevin Overbeck faces Jason McMahon today at 5 p.m. 135 -Charles Madden split decision over David Seerveld 145 -Tommy Will unanimous decision over Mike Maguire 
150 ­ Edward Hernandez unanimous decision over J.R. Mellin  
155 ­ Dave Murphy wins by RSC 20 seconds into third round  
over Tom Cronley  
160 ­ Mike LaDuke split decision over Josh Kirley  
163 ­ Sean Nowak unanimous decision over Travis Alexander  
165 ­ Tom Biolchini unanimous decision over Don Penn  
170 ­ Alex Kerrigan split decision over Mike Hammes  

175 -Trent Sandifur split decision over Steve Pfeiffer 180 -Paul Chen unanimous decision over Willie Kent 185 -Mike Romanchek split decision over Brian Gaffney 190 -Dave Butz unanimous decision over Mike Velten 195 -Pete Ryan split decision over Alex Kent HWT-John Salvino split decision over Greg Yatarola 
RSC=Referee stopped contest 
-
..: 
• 

1'.._,_,J 
r·--...l[lllllllll--.................1911___
....___l'll__¦---·---------~------------------......._elllll::94111111-..,_9!1'1"11---"4C.::.""•~----ac;::as::~w 


--------------,.----.--------------------------~---,---------~------­
-
§e ;\ne 

Monday, March I, 1999------------------Os~lRVER -----------------------page 11 

¦ CHARTwTOPPERS

¦ VIDEO PICK OF THE WEEK 
Violence wins at box-office 
"Boogie Nights" 
Director: Paul Thomas Anderson 
Starring: Mark Wahlberg, Julianne Moore, Burt Reynolds, Don 
Cheadle, William H. Macy 
and Heather Graham 

Hy JOE 1-ARSON nonetheless it has become legendary and 
Photo courtesy of Paramount Pictures Photo counesy ol Columbia Pictures 
S,cnc Movie Critic produced many glorious SYH repetitions. In tho second half of the film we see a Mel Gibson (left) and Nicolas Cage (right) show that they have the right stuff in "Boogie Nights" is n movie about naked morn dramatic narratiwi that muves with Hollywood. "8MM" and "Payback" top this week's box-office, beating out lighter fare girls and snx, right" the clmngP. ol' the decade as well as the such as "The Other Sister" and "Message in a Bottle." Wrong. movie industry's change from rilm to 
"Boogio Nighli;" has almost nothing to videocassette. While not nearly as entnr­do with nakocl girls and sex. But, you taining. it is important to r,ompleting the might ask, how can a movie about the artistic story that Anderson tolls. 
pornography industry havo almost noth­Ironically, a second theme of tho lilm ing to do with trnx'! By t:rm1ting intriguing (from tlw second hall) is tlrn pornogra­d1aract1,rs snt in an onduring era o!' tho phers' search to make a meaningful dra­pornography industry, "Boogie Nights" matic lilm. Hnrrrnr anrl tho entire tMm bi>(:onws much more than sex. yearn to make a film that keeps tho audi­While most mainstrrnun movicis use sex <mcos in tho theater alter the sox scenes 
1. 8MM. $ 14. 3 million 
as a nwthocl to arousn tho audinnco, have come and gone. These pornogra­"Boogi11 Nights" illustrates snx as a busi-phors take thoir work seriously and con­2. Payback $ 6.9 million 1wss. And in I 'J79, business is booming sider thcmsnlves actors redefining their 
3. The Other Sister $ 6. 7 million
l'or pornography cl irnctor Jack Ilornnr roles. In one dramatic scene, Buck 
!Burt Hnynolds in his Oscar-nominated Swopes (Don Cheadle), a country music­4. Message in a Bottle $ 6.4 million 1wrl'ornHlllCl') and his wnll-cndownd loving black porn star, is denied a bank 5. My Favorite Martian $ 5.2 million young slar l!ddin /\dams/Dirk Digglcr, loan because of his involvement with playml by Mark Wahlberg (Dirk Diggler is porno1-,•Taphy. Buck's emphalic rnply was, 6. October Sky $ 5.0 million ltis porn slar 1ianrnl. 'Tm not a pornographnr ... I'm an actor...l 7. Shakespeare in Love $ 4.4 million 
Tlw lilm is viewed Lhrough Llie eyns of am not a pornograplrnr." 

8. Blast from the Past $ 3. 7 million
thP rncksurn young star as I lorn er takes "Boogie Nights" is flawless -it gets him off the strt\NS and 9. She's All That $ 3.6 million i11trod11cns him lo a lifo 
10. 200 Cigarettes $ 3.2 million 
(I(' \l(ll'llllgraphic l'amu a11cl l'orturw. But "Boogie Nights" is about more than Source: Associated Press 
Fddie, llirk or Horner. !l's a story about a family's search to rise l'rom their distraught pasts and !'ind tlrnir lnm solvtis. 


Writnr and director l'aul Thomas ,\ndrrson is a pcrfoc­
,_,_.,-w•w-M=? 
0 n

lion isl who lovns 
'"'\

movies. I1!1 lovns writ­ing llwm and he loves dirncting them. This 
~ltoc.i thentel" ,a~i:lr 't©l<I 
dnadly combination leads to phcnommrnl f'ilm-making. And 
March 5

Anderson d1wsn 'l wait long to show his tnrn Analyze This, starring Robert DeNiro, Billy Crystal and Lisa Kudrow 
gc•nius. In tlw opening sr:(•m•, wit iclr masler­The Corruptor, starring Chow Yun-Fat and Mark Wahlberg l'ully last-; uncut for llm 
Cruel Intentions, starring Sarah Michelle Gellar and Reese Witherspoon
op1i11i11g L,vo and a half minutes, w1: follow 
Photo cour1esy of New Line Cinema 

IlornPr and his lov1!r 
Burt Reynolds and Mark Wahlberg star in "Boogie Nights." 

as IIH•y walk into a March 12 nighl duh and meet all of' tlw rlmructPrs. morn interesting after every viewing. The Arlington Road, starring Jeff Bridges and Joan Cusack 
TIH• lirsl hall' ol' llm lilm is depicted in lighting and cinematography really give a 

tlw latP I<J?Os and shows Dirk's discov-porn industry feeling. Recently, a DVD The Deep End of the Ocean I starring Michelle Pfeiffer 1iry and i11troductio11 lo Llw husim!SS. This version was released with the entire 
The Rage: Carrie 2, starring Emily BergI

S(1g11w11t is highly entnrtaining and enjoy­movin shown -with Anderson corn­ah!P, 111 a ll•w quick scrnrns we seP Dirk nrnnling 011 his direction throughout rnr.Piving his first porn awards, buying many scenes. It is an excellent choke for 
DON'T FORGET TO CATCH ALL THOSE MOVIES YOU MISSED 
!'a11cy ltalia11 dollws and enjoying his tlrnsn of' you who don't believe that 
fanw. dancin!,{ tlw ni!,{ht away. "Boogie Nights" is truly a magnilicent WHILE STUDYING LATE AT NIGHT ANO ON WEEKENDS. This dan<:P scPnn was sonrnhow work of' art. Walch it fully, and you will 
ENJOY YOUR SPRING BREAK! ..:.. 
s11uhb1~d al thn MTV awards. lrnt sec that it definitely is. 
WORK FOR SCENE!!! 
SCENE WANTS: FEATURES WRITERS
DON'T BE lEFT IN THE DARK 

ASSISTANT EDITORS COPY EDITORS 
IF YOU ARE INTERESTED, CONTACT MIKE AT 1..4540 OR 4-3211 
.. 
r 
. '(,«
"' ,, ,. .boring, B ··TED Fox·•··•''.·· ·itti)ttf•·s:OruC~hunuisr ' Mo.rk? 
Like everyon:~ else tt:r'!}¥J!d' >:t;b here, I've had to take a'pbilos, · ophy class. ... t 
In this kind Qf class~i~µsiJ ... \''.•M···Ou... . 
around and rcead stuff]i:k.~,. • ·. Plato and preHmcl you know N how it relates to the rest ofthe The'.a.hsw world. Unfortunately for llle; or. ·1960's.T:Vs 
b f:i t i *' . . . fl "efi•~:e
~1tt;t~0Ji~r:1~:~!lt~s-, ·•rr~.Jt?(re
ophizing ends when I walk out k ··. ··. ·· of the.l;'class. . .,. > ,, .• . 'C~ In its place oomes a sports philosophy that is something akin to Jack Handy's ~01'),epThoughts'' on old Satur<la;,, m:~tU NightLlve episodes.·Thistype· A of philosophizing is best con-. ca ducted when everyone is about half asleep anq will l11rjgh at · •Je 
Just abouL anything. Otherwise, '"or everyone might realize'you fy t ... ... . . were crazy. .. .· .........·.....·. ..·...'•• ..·•·. QM XC:;l:1.J-. ..·.·... •··•, ) ......••.. •..,.;. >. 
So what is sports pbil-0sopby.?,, •• , Waft iQ;sec.otiq!'iJ/Vld .PYPJ', (I'm making this up aH go...... FinaLJoopardjfmttsic: can you toll?) . And let's seeJww our cbntes~ 
Well, just imagine you're on• ·\·.tants,)'.l;}SPOnd~_,}90, w~q1. nn·epiS11de ofSports ·• ···· startw~th:you;r~1~~ ssitli~~:!11H;;; Philosophy Jeopardy. .. if Stone Cold SteveAustin met 
(Wayne's World dream Goldberg in a cage match sequence with sound effects, . . inside anOrangeJulius?tGood leading to Alex Trebek talking;),· guess.;/>utl'msi,rry;.tnafs< 
Less than a minute to go. incorrect. .·· .·· Joe, select. On to Mark. He said: "What I'll take "Crossing Sports would 1}1.l.ppeJtJfJabcn;pfpiju.p~
Lines" for 100, Alex. tivityincreased 6y;; ."ldti.h't 
The answer: Gigantic men in think so, buddy. This is Sports tights ripping corner flags out Philosophy, rem~mber? of the ground and doing.som-.•. And·IV!W to f\llfia.pid,she 
ersault, with the added bonus · come upwith the correct of "stone-cold stunners" answer: Let's see. She wrote: replacing verbal complaints for "What would happen if th!:l refs who make bad calls. Notre Dame lepreebaunmet 
Mark? · the Syracuse oraiigemari'in a 
What is the effect of combin-fight?" That's correct! Alicia, ing WCW and international you ren1ain Jeoeardy cha:mpi­soccer? on, an(l ')A,'e'Jl se~y.ou ,toajpr-· 
That's correct. You now have row. And until rie-xt time control of the board. America. take care ofyour-
Thanks, Alex. I'd Uke to. go to selves,And each.?ther.>'.•. "Sports That were Separated .Like,I•s,id bef,t~c;'Wsc3;/ · at Birth" for 200. · · dreamworld. And you know 
The answer there: These sib-Alex Tfebek ha,Salways want­lingsgrew up invery different edto ~etthe Spr_i11gerlin>inclimates, and although equally therei · ···· · ·· · ·· 

The Observer• CAMPUS SPORTS Monday, March I, 1999 
¦ WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Tourney tickets on sale today 
Special to The Observer Wednesdav. $1 5 for adults and $10 for 
If Notre ·oame is chosen as students. Single-session tick­
Advance-sale, three-game a first-and second-round ets will be available only on ticket packages for potential site, first-round rontests will game days. first-and second-round 1999 be played Friday, March 12, Tickets will be available at NCAA women's basketball or Saturday, March 13. the second-noor Joyce tournament games at the Second-round games will Center ticket window from 9 Joyce Center wiJI go on sale take place Sunday, March a.m. to 5 p.m .. Monday today to all Notre Dame 14, or Monday, March 15. through Friday, and by women's basketball season Game times will be phone. Fans should call (219) ticket holders. announced following site 631-7356 from 8:30 a.m. to 5 
Tickets for the general selection. p.m .. Monday through Friday public will go on sale Three-game packages arc for information. 
¦ ME!'ts Soccrn 

Berticelli inks German blue­chipper to play for Irish 
Special to The Observer Rodriguez of San Antonio, Texas, as mcmbnrs 
of Notre Dame's Class of 2003. 
Andreas Forstner of Gernlinden, Germany, a One of the best players in Bavaria, Forstner 5-10, 165-pound defP-nder. signed a national graduated from Olching Gymnasium. Ile is in letter of intent to play men's soccer for the his first season as a member of S.V. Lohhof. Irish. one of the top Bavarian club teams, and cur­
'Tm very excited about the addition of Andy rently is that squad's starting sweeper back. tu our 1999 recruiting class," head coach Mike The team, presently has a I5-2-2 record and Berticelli said...He will bring a great deal of has allowed just 11 goals. while recording
maturity and experience to our team. He is a eight shutouts. S.V. Lohhof is in first-place in very versatile player with great vision and tac­the league standings and is a contender for the tical awareness. He is a great compliment to Bavarian championship. the other players we have coming in this fall." Forstner played on the Furstenfcldbruck 
Forstner is the fourth men's soccer recruit to Youth Team for six years. During his tenure, sign with the Irish and will join defender Justin he helped that team capture two Bavarian Ratcliffe of Miami, Fla., goalkeeper Greg Tait championship titles. Last year, Forstner repre­of Fayetterville, NY, and midfielder Paul sented Bavaria at the National Team trials. 
McGraw gave several starters and Sherisha with her poise." 
time off the court to offer the Henderson, who played a 
bench tournament experience. key role all season off the continued from page 1 Riley and forward Kelley bench in the post, pulled in six 
Siemon, both starters in the boards and picked up Notre start in Sunday's game is game, registered just 13 min­Dame's only block on dflfonse. shadowed only by her impres­utes while Julie Henderson Hills' 10 points and llaney's sive start in the tournament. and freshmen Ericka Haney eight rebounds led the bench. 
"I really wanted to start off and Sherisha Hills each Villanova was unable to the tournament with a great played 20-plus minutes on the climb back into the game after game to build poise and confi­court. trailing 36-17 at thri half on dence," the junior guard said. "The lead allowed us to rest shooting 24 percent. Jenea "Shooting the ball well really a Jot 'of players," McGraw Skeeters, who poured in 23 got me into this game and I said. "With Ericka Haney and points Saturday in Villanova·s hope I can do the same tomor­Sherisha Hills, we were wor­68-59 first-round win over row night." ried to see how they'd come Providence, shot just 4-of-14 
Leading by as much as 20 out. But both played extreme­from the field in her 14-point points in the first half, ly well -Ericka on the boards effort against the Irish. 
Tourney 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the None Dame office. 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid.
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Lost: Spiderman Folder and assign- SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS:  1-9003  
NOTICES  ment notebook, If found please call 0992.  Make a difference in the life of a child1Summer therapy camp for  FOR RENT  SUMMER SUBLEASE  KILLER DILLER!  
handi.capped children.Located on  1 bdrm Campus View apt  FREAKY DEAKY!  
Spring Break Bahamas Party  shore of Lake Superior near Big  WALK TO SCHOOL  Call Carrie @ 273·2989  
Cruise!5Nights $279!Includes  Beanie Baby-Found Feb. 15th  Bay,MI.Positons available for  2-6 BEDROOM  OIOm TECHNICALLY disgusting!O  
Meals & Free Parties!Awesome Beaches,Nighllife!Departs From  between South Dining Hall and the K of C. (It looks new so I'm assum­ Counselors.Waterfront.Instructors for Nature/Arts &  STARTING $185 MONTH/PERSON  FOR SALE  ShanahanN  
Florida!Cancun & Jamaica $399!  ing that it's someones V-day gift.)  Crafts/Recreation/Canoeing/Kayaki  232-2595  TWEAK1 TWEAK! TWEAK!  
springbreaktravel.com  Call 234-6445.  ng, Nurses,Therapists,Foocl  NEW Rates Phone Cards  TWEAK!  
1-800-678-6386  Service.and Auxiliary.Must be  282 min. $20 call 258-4805  -POtel  
enthusiastic.responsible.and love  NICE HOMES FOR NEXT  
Spring Break Panama City $129!Boardwalk Room w/Kitchen  WANTED  children.June 13 through August 8. Salary.room & board.and  SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND 8,6,4,3,BEDROOM 2773097  PERSONAL  Sid's •  Don't tell nobody.  
Next To Clubsl7 Parties!Oaylona  experience of lifetime provided.Call  It's hard to be humble when you're  
$1491South Beach $129!Cocoa  CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT  or write for application and informa- BED 'N BREAKFAST  When you need copies ..  clearly superior.  
Beach $149!  Workers earn up to  tion.Bay Health Camp,  REGISTRY  We're OPEN!!!  
springbreaktravel.com  $2,000.i-/month (w/tips & bene­ 310 W. Washington.Suite  219-291-7153  Thanks Dan, you are the best.  
1-800-678-6386  fits).World Travel!Land•Tour jobs  300,Marquette,MI 49855,  THE COPY SHOP  
up to $5,000-$7,000/surnmer.Ask  (906)228·5770,e·rnail  FLORIDA SPRING BREAK  Lafortune Student Center  Can we stop at the next tree?  
How Green is Green?  us how!  BayCliffHC@aol.com  631-COPY  
517•336-4235 Ext.C55842  SANDPIPER-BEACON BEACH  Decision making is GOOD.  
Work in Ireland on a Student  Accounting Students! Earn cash  RESORT PANAMA CITY BEACH  Mon-Thur: 7•30am-Midnight  
.;·  Work Abroad Program and find out!  BOYS & GIRLS CLUB NEEDS  and a free CPA exam review course. Be a campus rep for  FLA. FROM $159 PER PERSON 3 POOLS 1 INDOOR POOULAZY  Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm Sat: Noon-6:00pm  Six days until WINTERPARK  
Call 1-888-Council and ask for  VOLUNTEER 8-BALL  CPAexcel,the course that makes  RIVER RIDE HUGE BEACHSIDE  Sun• Noon·Midmght  If you want good snow, give me an  
Tom.  COACHES!  passing the exam easier.  HOTTUB SUITES UP TO 10 PEO·  'Oh Hell Yeah!'  
Season runs 3-99 to 5-7-99  Visit www.cpaexcel.com or call toll- PLE FREE INFO 1-800-488-8828  
CANCUN, BAHAMAS  Call 232-2048 for more info  tree 888-884·5669.  WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM  $6 HAIRCUTS  
PANAMA CITY Gel FREE PARTIES with USA  PERFECT JOB FOR  HELP WANTED:  3 BDRM, DUPLEX,  Vito's Barbershop  Know your role and shut your mouth.  
Spring Break!  STUDENT SPOUSE/S.O.  RETAIL SALES  REMODELED, 501 EDDY ST.  1523 Lincolnway West  
Call 1·888•777-4642 to book  ND Prof & his professional  New store in U.P. Mall  1 Ml. FROM CAMPUS.APPL!·  Closed Sun. and Wed.  Can you SMELLLLLLL what The  
your trip today!  wife seek childcare provider  1 Full,2 Part-time needed  ANCES, W/D.  Mon,Tues.Thurs,Fri 8-4  Rock is cookin'?  
in their house for 2 preschool  Flexible hours.good pay  273•8332.  Sat. 8-3  
ILOST & FOUND I children. Hours. transp., benefits & wages negotiable (approx. 30 hrs/wk). If  Call now (419)233-1325  House For Rent 4-5 Bedroom  We going Padre, We going Padre......  I'll check you into the Smackdown Hotel, at the corner of Rudi-poo Drive and Jabroni Avenue.  
interested, please call  Highly responsible.creative student  Close to Campus, Includes:  
LOST: Notre Dame Class Ring.  631-7345.  needed to care for 2 year old girl in  Dishwasher, Washer/Dryer, Fridge,  "FREE BOOK'  The most ELECTRIFYING man in  
Description: Aquamarine stone with  Notre Dame  Stove. Remodeling kitchen in  sports entertainment...  
name engraved on the inside of the  professor's home.Flexible  spring.  Read a novel for a psychology  
ring. lnitials-PML Call 273-9813.  hours.Transportation required.Call  RENT REOUCEOl  study. For more info call Dr.  
287-7483 or 1·6208.  Call 289·4712  Radvansky's Memory Lab  I got two words for you ...  


The Observer• CAMPUS SPORTS page 13 
Graduation Announcements 
Add'I packs of 5@ $5.90/pk. Custom Note cards, Thank you notes and Souvenir Covers also available. 
Phone, mail, fax orders: Balfour PCA Dept. 7101 lntermodal Drive Bldg. A Louisville, KY 40258 
1.800.899.8205  Place orders in person on:  
fax 1.800.400.8189  Wed., March 3,  
Tues., Wed., March 23 & 24  
LaFortune Student Center  

Sorin Room 9:30 am -4:30 
6 ·1999 
The Observer/ Jeff Hsu 

Senior center Aniket Dhadphale helped lead the Irish to an 11-1-3 record on home ice this season. 


ersonalized Notre Dame 
Uulwnuy 
of 
Nom:·Daru 
¦ HOCKE\' 

Icemen end hoDle schedule with win 
By TEO BASSANI Simon said thny did not achi1we Spom Wrirer their aim. "We wanl lo play horn in two 
In their final two regular sea­WO()ks," Simon said. "It all comes son home games, Notrn Dame down to {Saturday! night, so I seniors went out in style, taking don't think we're satisfied." three of four points from the Entnring Saturday's gam<l. Urn Northern Michigan Wildcats last team desperately ncwdnd a W<lekend. power-play goal to jump-start its 
Saturday's tense 2-1 victory struggling offense. With all six and Friday's 3-3 tic return to goals Friday night scornd at oven Notre Dam~i sole possossion or strength, Notre Dame's power fourth place in the CCHA stand­play drought stood at 30 straight ings, one point opportunities ahead of without a goal. Northern "Al this stage Michigan. of the season,
'WHEN YOU WIN 11 
In Friday's it's hard to
GAMFS AT HOME,
contest, Hvan scorn f'ive-on­Dolder sco.red THAT'S QUITE A FEW, IN TI-IIS l'i Vil Linea use) Notre IJamn's cveryorrn tight­
LEAGUE E.SPECIALLY.' 
first points in ons up defen­five games early sively, so [the in lhe second ANIKET Dl!A!Jl'JIALE Power· p Ia y I 
period, wrack­

NOTRI,· DAME CHNl1m will have to be 
ing up his fourth goal of the season and second in two games against the Wildcats. 
After the Wildcats tied the game on a great end-to-end rush by freshman Chad Theuer, Ben Simon helped the Irish regain the lead with a spectacular indi­vidual effort. 
Simon took the puck down the ice, going one-on-one with defenseman Sean Connolly. Simon trapped Connolly in the circle, but the Wildcat freshman slowed down Simon, hooking his leg. With one skate on the ice, Simon managed to flip a quick wrist shot over tho shoulder of goaltender Dan Ragusett for a 2­1 Irish lead. 
"I skated down the ice, the ldefensemanJ stepped up, and I just put it between his legs and then shelved it," Simon said. "It looked a lot better than it really was." 
Notre Dame's third-period didn't last long, however, as junior Tyson Holly and senior Buddy Smith each scored third­period goals to give Northern a 3-2 lead with 6:30 to play. 
At crunch-time, senior Aniket Dhadphale stepped forward. Simon carried the puck into the Northern Michigan end and slid a pass to Dhadphale, who beat Hagusctt through the legs to tie the game with just 3:43 remain­ing. 
While the Irish earned a tie, 

a big factor," Dhadphale said. 
Midway through thn second period, Dhadphale, who lnads the team in power play goals, augmented his statistics. Team captain Brian Urick caught the Wildcats in a line change al cen­ter ice with a long pass to Dhadphale, who came into the offensive zone with room on left wing. 
Dhadphale then surprised Ragusett with a slap shot that beat him high for his ninth powr.r-play goal. 
"I came down the wing, and I thought I saw him cheat a little bit towards t!rn middle, so I just shot it high to the short side," Dhadphale said. 
Notre Dame maintained that slim 1-0 lead until late in the third period. With Northern Michigan pressing to tie, the Irish caught their opponents in transition as sophomorns Chad Chipchase and Dolder broke through centnr ice two-on-orrn. 
Dolder beat Hagusntt with a wrist shot from thn right wing, making it threr.-for-tlmw in his last two games against the Wildcats, 
"You could delinit<'ly stmse thP pressure," Dolder said. "Tonight, we knew we had to get it done because if w11 didn't win tonight, we knew we wouldn't get home ice in the playoffs. You could tell it wasn't just a normal CCIIA game." 
Saturday's game ondrd in play-off fashion. With one minute to play, Nortluirn Michigan had a pownr play and pul!P.d their goaltender for a six­on-f'our skating advantage. 
After Forrest Karr thwarted several point-blank attempts, Doug Schmidt found a rebound in the slot and finally beat Karr with a slap shot to end the bid for his third shutout of tlw s<1a­snn. 
"Forrnst has been so st1iady for us all year,•· !mad coach Davc1 Poulin said of' his goaltender's performancci. "IIH madn big saves. llis personality is such that his teammates have a tcrrif'­ic amount orconlidencn in him." 
With a win and a tin, Notrn Dame !inislwd its homn sclwdule with a rncord of 1l-1-3, a drastir improvement ovor the fi-8-4 mark postPcl last snason. 
"Up until this ynar, we've struggh:d nvtiry year I've hec)n here on home ico," Dhadphahi said. "Wlrnn you win 11 gamt•s at homn, that's quitn a few, in this leagmi especially. If we) get homo ice in the playoffs, it's going to givn us that much more confidence." 



page 14 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, March 1, 1999 

Abortion, euthanasia and capital 
punishment demean the lives of 
countless individuals in our society. Gather with us in Eucharistic Adoration to prar for an end 
to the culture of death. 

.. 

"I 111ahe a holy hour ,~ach day in the presence of Jesus in the Blessed Sacrament. All my sisters of the Missionaries of Charity mahe a daily holy hour as well, becpuse we find that through our daily lioly hour o~rlove for Jesus becomes more intimate, our love for ~acJ1 otlzer more understanding, and dur lov~'for the poor more compassionate.. ," 

-Mother Teresa 


,.. ·, 

........

Sponsored by Notre Dame Right to Life AMDG • JMI 

EUCHAHJSTIC ADORATION ON CAMPUS: 
FRIDAY: Lady Chapel in the Basilica: 12:00pm (following 11:30am Mass) -5:00pm with a Rosary beginning at 4:15pm. (Ends with Benediction at4:45pm) 
MON{?AY beginning at 11:30pm {following 11 :OOpm Mass) through TUESDAY at 10:00pm (Ending with Benediction at 9:45-10:00pm) In Fisher Hall Chapel. 
_,,,. 
Jesus is here with us in the Eucharist lo give us answers-answers 
that will lead us to truth, happiness and peace. In this culture of death, it is easy for people to become weary and indifferent to Cod and His gift of life. People often fall .short of their obligation to care for and nurture the spiritual and physical lives of themselves and oth­ers. Eud1aristic Adoration gives a person the opportunity to nurture 
his own spiritual life, as well as the spiritual lives of others 
(through prayer for them.) Prayer also protects the physical 
lives of those endangered by abortion, euthanasia and 
other forms of violence. It is only through the grace which 
comes-from prayer that others' hearts can be changed from seeking death to loving life. Christ gives us the strength to press on in our battle for life. In order to be Christ-like in our service to preserve life, we must be filled with His life through prayer. We ask you to join us in prayer for life at Eucharistic Adoration. 
What is Eucharistic Adoration? 
Gl,d is present to us in many ways in our world, but Ile is especially presem to us in the Eucharist. As Roman Catholics, we believe that Jesus Christ, who lived :woo years ago, is truly present in the Eucharist. In Eucharistic. Adoration, the Host is placed in a monstrance, in order for us to be able to come and pray. Jesus is alw;iys hidden in the tabernacle, but in adoration I le is exposed so that we can come and kneel before Him, face to face, and speak with God. When Jesus is exposed like this, Ile can never be left alone. Thus, people sign up to be responsible to come and pray with f Jim for a certain amount of time (usually Ifi-1 hour) every week. 
Why should I go? 

If Jesus were to come to the JACC, wouldn't you come and stand in line for hours just to talk to Him for a minute? Even if you weren't Christian, wouldn't you be at least interested in this God so many people talk about? Well, Jesus is truly present here on campus-in the Eucharist. IN ADORATION YOU HAVE THE OPPORTUNI'IY TO GO AND SPEAK WITH GOD FACE TO FACE. You can confide in llim, plead with Him, question Him. And if you sit quietly enough, He will inspire you with answers, 
What do I do when I am there? 
When you enter the chapel, you should genuflect as a sign of reverence to Jesus. It is 
common pr;ictice during Adoration to genuflect on two knees, instead of just one 
(like you do whenever you enter a chapel.) You can stand, sit, or kneel-whatever 
helps you pray. And then you pray. There are many ways. to pray: you can do spiritual 
reading; you can pray a rosary; you can sit in silence; you can even just talk to Jesus­
like you woul<l to a friend. The most important thing is that you love 1-Iim and allow 
Him to love and strengthen you. 

What does the Church think? 
"Exposition of 1/ie B/esse.d Sacrament, wlJeLher in a pyx or amonstrance, is arecognition of the wondrous Presence of Clirisc in the sacrament and stimulates us to unite ourselves to Him in aspiritual communion. It is, accordingly, eminently in harmony with the worship which we owe Him in spirit and truth ... " 
-l'ost-Conciliar (Vatican 11) Document, S.C.D.W. 

7 
1 
Monday, March I, 1999 The Observer• CAMPUS SPORTS page 15 
JIii'
¦ SWtMMING 
Divers, coach Xie prove valuable to team's success 
By WES RICHARDSON Dame has ever sec1n. Ketolhohn and Johnstone "I was rnally happy with what I Xie. "He's a great coach. lln's Sporn. Wrim When they regualarly crush placed in the top 16 on both the did," Mattingly said. "Jenny very dedir.ated to coaching us. the competition, they may go thrne-meter and one-meter !Keim of Miami). the girl that "And he's a good hula dancer," OvPrlooking divnrs at a swim unnoticod. It's when they're not boards, events which arc tradi­won, was a '96 Olympian, so it she added with a smile. nHHll is uasy. them that the swimmers really tionally dominated by Miami. was a real accomplishment." "lle's pretty understanding, 
Tlwir events take place• at the miss thPm. If the women's diving squad is The rest of tlrn diving squad is Ketelhohn said. "lle's a good end nf Llw pool, separate and The men's team discovered a treasure to tho swim team, motivated by Mattingly's success, coach. If you have a problem, he olfon nt tlrn samn times as the this tlrn hard way by compoling I.hen Mat1.ingly is the crown according to Ketelhohn and can help you with it." morn high-profile swimming without a diver all season. jewel. Early in the season, she Johnstone. Xie was the Chinese Olympic racos. So it's no wonder that Likewise, the women nearly had obliterated the University's div­"We get along really woll, coach for morn than 1 O years. junior (,inll K1itclhohn, sopho­to live without their divers at last ing rer:ords, then continued to especially since we got Heather," llis divers have won medals in moros Jessica Johnstorw and wrwkcncl's Big East swimming bettor her own mark. Ketelhohn ~aid. "lier being so the Olympics, the World Karli Hichards. and f'rnshman and diving championships. Mattingly has won all but thrmi good has motivated us to work University games, the Asian ll1•111.lwr Mattingly ur!' oftpn "Mo and Jessica wern really 1wenls in dual meets. Shfl placed harder. It's nice to have somconfl games. the World Cup, and t.he unsung heroines. sick." Ketolhohn said. "We didn't first on both boards in January's to push you." World Cllllmpionships. 
Tlrny'rt\ always at pructict1, even know we'd be coming (to Rainbow Invitational and placed "We'rn best friends. We help "!In's used to working with working just as hard us the llH: championships!. It was a second on the three-meter and each other and push each world champions, so he's still swimmers, contributing points at last-minute decision." third on the one-meter at both other," Johnstone added. adapting. llc's looking t.o w~t that 
uvnry nwet. Thny arc1 tho It turnnd out to bn .a good ded­I.he Minnesota Invitational and Much of tho divers' succnss dedication from us," Mat.tingly 
slrongost diving squad that NotrP sion. the Big East championships. r:an bfi attributPd to their coach, said. Cairning Xie. A 1974 Chinese Kctelhohn, Johnstone and National Champion in the spring­Mattingly now look forward to board, Xfo is in his fourth ynar as the NCAA Zone C diving meet, Notre Dame's first full-time div­March 12-13 in Indianapolis.
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
ing r:oach. From there. Mattingly hopns to "lle's worked really hard get­qualify for the NCAA ting us ready," Johnstone said of Championships.
FINANCE CLUB 
I 999-2000 Officer Elections 
Voting will take place... Monday -Wednesday, March 1-3 9:00am -3:00pm Finance Department Office 
All members of the Finance Club should stop by and vote 

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 


Ii fe doesn't stop after college... 
neither should your education any questions? 
f" 0 C r U itill g @ cl C 8 y 8 . C O ITI 
--· -------­

I --------------­
r 
I 
I 
page 16 The Observer• CAMPUS SPORTS Monday, March I, 1999 
..__ ¦ WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Third-seed Irish move 
on to Rutgers rematch 



By BRIAN KESSLER A.s.sisranr Sporrs Ediror 
PISCATAWAY, N.J. 
Following a 77-57 loss to Rutgers two weeks ago, mem­bers of the 10th-ranked Notre Dame women's baskethall team walked off the Louis Brown Athletic Centm·'s court with their heads hung in disappointmnnt. 
Arter defeating sixth-seeded Villanova 83-53 Sundayt night. tlm third-s<wdPd Irish (24-3) will have a clrnncc to redeem lhem­S(-1lv1\s when they face the Scarlet Knights on the same rourt in the semifinals o[ the flig East tour­nament. 
"I think that we all took it pret­ty p(irsonally," said Irish center Hulh Hiley, who was named Big East defensive player-of-lhe­year. "We weren't overlooking Villanova in any way, but I think we all were looking forward to getting a second chance at Rutgers. We feel like we didn't bring our game the first time. We'll be ready for them." 
In order to be ready for Rutgers, head coach Muffel McGraw will have to come up with a game plan that will be able to thwart the Scarlet Knight's top-ranked defense. 
"I think getting our fast break going and cutting down on turnovers will be key," said Riley, who was also a unani­mcws first-team all-Big East selection. "We just need to play smart and execute our offense the way we have all year." 
"The kev for us will be our half-court ·execution." McGraw said. "Our transition game has been excellent, but we haven't done well with our half-court. Jt's something we haven't had to do against a lot of teams. but against Rutgers we're going to have to execute offensively." 
The last time tho two teams met, Rutgers held Notre Dame to a season-low in points (57) and field-goal percentage (33 per­cent). The Scarlet Knights also forc,)d 23 Irish turnovers. 
Riley was rendered ineffective for the most part by the defen­sive duo of Dana Boonen and Tammy Sutton-Brown. Riley got her double-double (12 points, 10 rebounds), but at one point in the first half, the Irish turned the ball over seven straight times 
while trying to force the ball inside. "Rutgers is a good dPfensive 
Leam, and not to take anything away from them, but I think I could have done things better too," said Riley. who had nine points in Sunday's victory. "Looking back. I don't feel like I played that well." 
Notre Dame dominated last night's game with Villanova, which means the players will be well rested when thf1 y Face Hutger~ tonight at 8 p.m. 
··1 think it's great I.hat we got. to rest a lot of people, especially Niele flvey]. who only had to play 20 minutes," said McCraw. "So I thought it was important that we were able to get a big lead in the second half and rest some players." 
Sunday's blowout allowed McGraw to go deep into her bench and give some younger players a chance to log minutes and gain confidence heading into today's Bi).{ East semifinal 
Preshmen S-herisha llills and Ericka Haney showed nerves and struggled in the first meet­ing with Rutgers. Sunday, how­ever, Hills and Haney combined for 17 points and 12 boards. 
"I was a little worried to see how they would come out," said McGraw. "They're good players. but playing in their first Big East tournament game is something that was on their minds. We tried to get them in early and l think they played extremely well. Ericka did a great job on the boards and Sherisha played with a lot of poise, so I'm pleased with their perfor­mance." 
McGraw will also have a lot to be concerned about tonight. She will have to come up with an answer for a Rutgers team that has won eight straight and topped the Irish by 20 points without playing its best 
"I think they're a great team," said McGraw, whose Irish squad is 4-6 all-time against Rutgers. "They're very motivated. I don't think they played that well the last time we played them. Tasha Pointer and Tomora Young both had big games, but I think they can watch the film and see some things they need to improve on. I think it will be a great game and good rematch. We'll be ready." 


The Observer/ LIZ Lang Sophomore forward Kelly Siemon muscled to the basket during Sunday night's Big East tournament win against Villanova. Tonight the Irish face second-seeded Rutgers. 
At just 99¢, this dears gonna make your mouth water. 
(Not to mention your eyes.) 
,;'' 
('( 
, 
( ,! 
... 


Try the delicious new Cheese 'n Onion Melt Burger, right now only 99¢. 
Cry out for the tasty new Cheese 'n Onion Melt Burger on the 99¢ Great Tastes Menu 
at Burger King~ restaurants. It's a Juicy flame-broiled burger smothered with sauteed 
onions and melted cheese, right now just 99¢. That's right, just 99¢. It's a deal so good, 
it may bring tears to your eyes. But don't worry, you can always just say it's the onions. 
Limiu,d time only. Pnce and participation may vary. 
The Huddle -LaFortune Student Center 
~ 
BURGER 
KING 

www.burg,rking.com It just tastes better: 
© 1999 Burger Kmg Corpont.on. Burgtc King Corpura.uon is the exclllJ.1vt licensee of the "IL juat Wti:a better" tradi=mark a.ml the registered Burger King and Bun Hatve, logo traclcmarb . 
-
-• 
Monday, March I, 1999 The Obsem:r. CAMPUS SPORTS page 17 
¦ MEN'S SWIMMING 
Win in last event lifts ND to tourney's second place 

By WES RICHARDSON Dame beat Syracuse 565 lo Spuns Writer 
5'14, but only aft1ir ovnrcoming its pre-linals 2(J-point deficit. 

Pittsburgh 1•asily won the Pittsburgh ran away with tho mnd, hut Notre Damn stoic . nHwl with 756 points. Once a tlw show. poworhouso, Miami placed a 
1.ikn a I lail Mary pass in lhn distant fourth with 286 points, l'i1rnl s1\co11ds ot' a football l'ollowncl closely by Hutgers gam1•, tlw men's swim loam with 284. rallind in tl11• last nvnnt to By Saturday night, upset Syracus1: by a single Fitzpatrick had been out­point and placn sncond at th•, louched for wins by Syracuse's 
Big l:ast swimming and diving .Josn Gonzalf'z in ·the> 50 and drnrnpionships Saturday. 100 l'rccstylcs, and by "W1! didn't rnmparc places Pittsburgh's Stev(i Siler in the 
or what it would takn to b1~al 200 l'rccstyln. Svracuse." said coach Tim llownwr. Fitzpalrick's leg of Wt>lsh. ,vho was votPcl Big l•:ast the rfllav was nnarlv a second 
nwn's swimrniug Coach of' t.he fastnr llian Gonzalnz's winning Y,•ar. "Hy magic, it all ca11111 lime ror llrn individual JOO tog!'tlwr." f'rfll'styln evnnl. 
Tim magic was cnrtainly al Be1';1rc last weekend, the tlw (;oodwill Cianrns /\quatic Notrn Dame 1111~11 had bcon Centi'!' in Uniondnln, N.Y .• as without an individual win at N11tr1• Dan11• won tlin last tlw Big East championships; nv1rnt. tlw 400-yarrl f'rp1\stylP Saturday night saw thrnn Irish 
rdav. victories. 
Tl11• Irish Wl'l'I' lnss than a Out of' 18 nvunls swum dur­hody-lP11gth lwh.ind Piltsburgh ing llw t.hnw-clay. six-session and Syracuse afl1)r Vince mn11t, the mnn broke 14 Kuna, Bob Fl'l.tl'r and Stnnlo Univnrsity' rncords and Whowl'll linishnd llwir l1•gs of' achi1H'1•d thr<•1i NC/\A tlu• I'll('.('. Chumpionship considcratiun 
luninr Bay l;ilzpatril'k lhPn times. dove in, cnught tlw compnti­Fn•shman .Jonat.lrnn Picrc<1 lio11 and tout'hPd at 3:01.38, brokn two University records IH•ati11g Pittsburgh by 12-hun­in onn swim. On tho way to dri•dths ot' a s1•corHI and !(lav­scoring Notre Damn's first win 
ing SyrarusP in third at in the I(150-yard frenstyle at :~:0 I.'J2. 15:35.65, his 1000-yard split 
Providing tlw only co111hina­time of 9:24.29 was also good tio11 that would IPad to a Notrn enough for a school record. Dami' vicl11ry ovnr SyracUS!\, Dan Szilicr backnd up his tlw Irish bll'arhrrs 1•ruptP·ct invitation to this summer's wh1•11 llw number 0111• World University Games by 
Notre Dame's men's swimming team nipped Syracuse in the closing minutes of this weekend's Big EastappParNI 11Pxt lo Notr1• l)anw winning the 200 brPaststroke tournament. The turn of events lifted the Irish into a second-place finish behind conference champions
1111 llw srorPho.ird. "I was prnlty sum  I could  at 2:00.09. Co-captain Whowell and Szilicr placed  Pittsburgh.  
pass tlw Syracuse guy, but I  third and fourth rnspectively  In two years, tlrn men's swim  scholarship athletes.  added to the program.  
wasn't surl' I l'ould  pass the  in Friday's I00 breaststroke.  tnam has ris·en from a seventh­ Welsh attributed the team's  "Each recruiting class has  
Pit1sh11rgh  guy  also,"  Scott Zumbach placed sec­ plac(~ rut in the Big East to the  success  to  its dedication  to  had  a  lot of talenL With  the  
Fitzpatrick said. "I knew it  ond in the 200 individual med­ highly competitive top three.  long-term goals.  leadership of the coaclws,  
was going lo l.m a rhalkng11."  ley at  1:50.68 and third in  Last week,rnd, the  men  beat  "It's a  commitment on  their  1w11ryone has improvHd  over  
Thr11ughoul  tlw 1111H'L,  th1i  both I.Im 400 individual medley  teams  that  have  divers  - part,  a  commitment to say,  lhe years," Whowell said.  
Irish  Sl'l'llll'd  lockPd into third  (358.231 and the 200 butterfly  which Notre Dame currently  'We want to b<1 good,"' Welsh  Welsh also cit1)d the help of'  
plarP.  In  lhl'n  PIHi.  Notre  ( I :49.431.  lacks  - and IO times as manv  said. "The leaders on the team  assistant  coach  Jonathan  
...  kept a clear vision that said,  Jennings, the resignation of  
'We want to go to Big East and  Miami's  f'ormnr  coach  and  
be better than ever."'  strokn  tech11iquos  learrrnd  
1999 ­ 2000 Class Officer  Whowell noted the strength that new swimmers have  from Ni,. 1 Stanl'ord as tributors to Irish success.  con­ 

lJ1rnrn=®{fJ1 I.ElJ@crJlJfl@ID~ 
in tl.e classes of Class of 2002, Class of 2000, Off-Campus Senator 
Monday, March 1, 1999 
Don't Forget lo Vote! 


Voting Times:. 
11:00 am· 1:00 pm 
5:00 pm .. 7:00 pm (Voting tokes place in all Campus
Residence Halls during these times ONLY) 
Voting Times 
12:00 am .. 4:00 pm (Table will be set up in 
Lafortune near the Huddle} 
Brought to you by: *ftrr/tr/rrt'lrN/tr/1 

r 20th anniversary in prowling .ty nnnmeT edaccation. 
rench lmmetsion History · g for Film. Filmmaking tural Excursions 
, 75007 Paris, France Fax (33/1) 40 62 07 17 2) 983,1414 

: 10 tanning : : 1 month l 
I I 

: sessions : : of unlimited tanning : 
I II I 
: "30 : :L ________________":JS Jl 
L---------------_J 

NEW! University Commons Southland Plaza Grape & McKinley 
....

b.v UP Mall at l.n./and & lrom110<)d near KJfnt·t 
272-7653 291-2000 256-9656 
J 

I I 
page 18 
¦ FOOTBALL 
Addazio, 
By TIM CASEY 
Sports Writer 
Bob Davie finalized the 1999 Irish foot• ball coaching staff in time for spri~g training with weeken.rl additions of Syracuse's Steve Addazio as offensive coordinator and 13ostonColfoge's Jeri:y Rosburg as outc,ide linebacker r,oach and aid for special teams. 
Addazio and Rosburg have worked with Davie's other two recently hired coaches. Addazio served as the offensiye line coach at Syracuse under new lrisli offensive coordinator Kevin Rogers. Roshurg coached on the same defensive staff at Cincinnati.with Lou West,. the fall season's sP-condary coach. 
The relationship betyv~e)lWQsJp;9d, Rosburg is one that has seen them go from allies at Cincinnati to Big East rivals and now back to allies. Rosburg had nothing but good words to say about his friend and fellow assistant · 
"Lou is a·.first-mte·human being ?Pd 
W•1d R•d
I I e 
·continued from page 1 
"It was a greal way to send the seniors out on their f'inal game," head coach John MacLnod sai<l. "It was a great second half of basketball, specifically for the starters. That's the way you like to have a senior night finish." 
The Eagles outworked the Irish for a 34-30 halftime lead as the Notre Dame back-

The Observer• CAMPUS SPORTS Monday, March I, l 999 
.... ·_:':" :: •· '' ';· _,_ :: 

coc1ching staff
;C",ih :, ,' •:•.·•,:<.:••.:• ·• ·_,
'C, ·, 
an out~t~clfn~·.. CQacb...... ···kthatN' sticks.~fth.~~'u.t. Dame·.fui$ seY'VedJtself .·. ··. . . get •• •.... ·... ..•.... · ·R()~burg<:;1:A11ti/filso
their secondary coach/'silfd Rosburg.;;u!t · .ball'.i'aq.;An:y 160 1ran t~a. "vet 
certainly was very evident when. yQu wn.tched Jhe guys· afVi:rginia Tech pfay I.hat they. were very well coached, I1111 very confident that that.V\'.ill•also betl,e tasc here'.'' . .. . ·. . .. . . 
While at Boston College last year, Rosburg coached second•team all-Big East performer Pedro Cirino, wh.o ranked !lecond in the Eig East in tackles. 
~osh~r~.;~;i~ ~p~ri.t;'h,is ~n.tjre ~O~ft:i!J,f·
carcer.i;:q11c}µng.bm~bac:kcrs and tlmsec·. ondary. . . . . . A Minnesota native,-who played for NorLh Dakota State, Rosburg grew up as a Notr~ Dame fan andisaid he is -v-ery 
exp{t~ji)¢t:~t1.u•ri tq fll'~ :Ml~~st. .. .. •··· >/ . •the >YP.t {!I .~ :sy~tip~~r,?t'.f'e~.S(} ·}}',9icq 
. 'µi toe 'Midwest,: ther;e's two Lhings: ranked tliJrd ;Ul SCOli'lUg in the country Nntre Dame and the Big Ten. As a result and 10th nationally lrt· ru.,;hing. While at of that, this job has always appealed to Syracuse, the Orangemen were always ine. I'm not unlike a.lot of Midwestern among the nation's top~25teams. kids or :v,en kid!. <a.cross. the cnUIIftY He ~ eqa¢h the l'ti~h t~ght ends, help 
. gr.owi,n.g;pp....Th.afs.ju~t.somethiug tlta,t. •• with.,,ol'f'~rniLv~ta,kle~ifudwor1'. with the 
a court went a salute from collective 0-'WEHAD TO BLOCK Graves and for-7 from the OUT ALL THAT 
the 9,043 fans field. in attendance. M a r t i n WHOLE SENIOR NIGHT LAST The crowd 
lngelsby start­GAME THING AND PLAY FOR also saluted ed at point senior cap• guard. after THE WILL OF THE TEAM.' tains Wyche 
"We had an all-around good 
team effort today," Graves said. 
After not attempting a field goal for the first seven min­utes of the game, Troy Murphy scored 10 in the first half and added another seven in the second. The forwa-rd made another strong case for the Big East Rookie of the Year honors with 17 points, 12 rebounds and four blocks. He capped off the perfor• mance wilh a thunderous 
dunk that 
earned 
sitting out the St. John's game, and played 25 min, utes. Foul trouble slowed lngelsby in the first half, but he came out or the locker room and scored the first seven Irish points of the sec­ond half. lnge!sby finished with 10 points and four assists. 
"I wanted to come out and play more aggressively in the SP-cone! half." said lngelsby. "I got some open looks that kind of opened the game for us." 
A three-pointer from Kenny Harley, who had 21 points, put Boston College up 43.37 five minutes into the second half. 
Then the Irish starting five began their run. 
and Hickey ANTONI WYCHE after one the 
year's better 
SENIOR GUARD performances. 
"They came 
in and had big games today," Ingelsby said. "It's great to see them go out with a victory." 
"It was a big game for us that we needed to win," Wyche said. "We had to block out all that whole senior night last game thing and play for the will of the team." 
"Coach said that he wanted us to go out on a winning note, and that's what we did," Hickey said. "It's great to end our home career like this." 
The Irish will play Seton Hall Wednesday at 11 a.m. in the Big East tournament. The winner will play top-seeded Connecticut Thursday. ­
YOGA 
YOGA ON
YOGAoN 
MONDAYS 
THURSDAYS 3/15 .. 4/26 3/i 8 .. 4/29 
5:30--6:45
6:45"'8:00PM $20 RSRC $20 RSRC 
TAI CHII ON 
WEDNIESDAYS 3/! 7 .. 4/28 
5:30'"6:25 OR 6:35'"7:30 
$22 RSRC TAl CHI 
1~61 oo WITH QUESTIONS 
Rl:GISTRATIION FOR All CLASSIES IBIEG!NS @ 7:30AM, 3/2 iN THE RSRC 
watched college football would know that Notre Dame ls a speci!lfpln.ce." He had the opportun.ity to briefly meet with~(ewplayel'S..·•··· > 
"I was: ~ecy·impress~({ bfthe pebplc I met. They're not unlike the young 1nen we had at Boston College in that H\ey'rP very artlculate, friendly and inteHigent. They're dassy young men," said 
Rosburg ..·.· .•.....· .•. ; . ...·.· > ii 
Addaiiq, 39, come~)o NotrQ D'anrn 
after four successfulse~oriS atSyracuse where he coached the"offensive lfrie and tight ends: 
His ()ff<Jnsiye lineJr~Jasty~al" paved 

specjatteams. . ... ·.. .• 
Uke'.ltli.u,y coaches 'that come to Notre Dar.rie, Addazio feels ternorse for leaving his old school, but realizes that this is an opportunity he couldn't pass up. 
· 'Tm looking forward to gelting out and gettingstarted." said Addazio. "You real­lY can't look back at this point. You've got to move forward, I love where I've bAen. IteU you thai with a tear in my eye and ¼ith all my heart. I have great mem­ories and experiences at Syracuse. I real• ly love Coach P (Paul Pasqualoni, Syracuse's head coach]. He's like a father. That's what make this the hard­est. My feelings for him are so strong. Right now, this is where I'm gning and really excited about it." Now that the new coaches seem in tact, Lhe hype now begins for the 1999 son.son. The team begins its spring practices on Saturday, March 27th. It is allowed 15 practices in Lhe spring, culminating vvith the annual Blue-Gold game on April 24. 

The Observer/ Kevin Dalum 

Martin lnglesby (No. 24) returned to the lineup in Sunday's 78-59 win over Boston College. 

WHEN : Friday, March 19th to Saturday, March 20th 
WHERE: Five Pines Christian Family Center 
Transportation will be provided 
Applications due 
March 4th 

to Class of 2000 office 
Questions?? Call Meghan Tracy (4-2339) or Teresa Hoover (243-8901) 
..' 
--~ 

page 19

Monday, March 1, 1999 The Observer. TODAY 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF ND DAN SULLIVAN HOROSCOPE EUGENIA l.AST 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


BILL AMEND

FOXTROT 
MtNO IF l TRY IT? WoW.1

MM-MMM! YUP. A llo•T 
You l<NOW, SAY, ARE 
WH'l', '(ES, WE WHAT A 
ARE TALl(IN(; COINCIDENCE!

No'Tl-!1!'4r:, BEER SullE 
'AT ,s Gool) ...., BEER!
I MAY EVEN 'YOU iWo 
ABoUT ... , t WAS JUST
HAVE T'wo TALKINC:,

LIKE AN HITi; TI-iE 
,.,:,O'T' 
TiilNKINC:» To 
REM1ND ME To I THIN!<

1CE•CoLD SPoT AFTER 
ABOUT " 
SEER!
lto1iT ...
BEERS, 
M"TSELF HoW

loo1 ~CHool! 
NE\IER AGAIN TELL IT'S CUTE. 
I 
I'M So

BEER.' 
!)II.BERi SCOTT ADAMS E 
8 HOW 00 WE 
I PRCJ'£R
E. t.i THAT'$ 

THE.'(
KNOW WHICH 
iO THINK OF
CIRCULAR 
PLANETS HA\JE 
IT A.$ HAVING
REA.~ON­
~RE. MOR( f"\ORE 
NO L005E. 
OENSt.? 
64 Group thal makes contracts 66 Fas1ing time 67 Drive away 68 ·The African 
Queen" 
screenwriter James 69 Organization with a lodge 100neof the Astaires 71 Slolhful 
DOWN 
1 Par1 of a nuclear arsenal, for shor1 2 Fiddling emperor 3 Pleased 4 Lis1en in (on) 5 German warning 
6 Fannie security 
1 -inslan1 (qwckty) a Italian road 9 Centers of activity 10 Push 11 Like some old bucke1s 12 Frasier's brother on "Frasier· 13 Harsh rellect,on 
1 e Ac1ress Sommer 24 ·'Hold on---!" 26 Payments to doctors 21 Meola 2s Assert 
GR/WIT'(~ ~ 
END5.
:. 
Puule by freder1ck T. Buhle1 

29 Fix up 30 Oyster's center 34 Capnc,ous 35 Org. formed lo 
contain Communism 36 Bread chamber 
37 One who's 
socially clueless 39 Prime-lime hour 
41 Desert stream 44 Parts of brains 46Wangle 49 Accustomed 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 
1-900-420-5656 (95c per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the bes! of Sunday crosswords from the lasl 50 years. 1-888-7-ACROSS 
MONDAY, MARCI! 1, 1999 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Dinah Shore, Ron Howard, Harry Belafonte, Alan Thicke, Timo­thy Daly, Robert Bork, Roger Daltrey 
Happy Birthday: 111.is ,s a roman­tic ,md creative year for you. Get out and enjoy the conipany of others. Your vision will en.>ble you to make your work unique. Lei your imagina­tion flow and belieYe in yourself and rour ahilities. Yrn1 can n{ilke .i dit'for­L'D(t' ii \·nu stkh. h 1 \' h.1t \'Pu i-:111.'" and do ·be~t. l'n.."lbfl'S,~ can Ge nhh.h.• if you stick to rour plan5. Your num· bers: l, 8, 17, 23, 28, 34 
ARIES (March 21-April 19); You may not be feeling up to par today. Plan to get a little rest and relaxation. Worry and frettmg about your JOb have contributed to your lowered vitality. Start thinking of alternatives. 
00000 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20l: You can make a big difference when it com.-s to helping youngsters today. Family outings or events will bring a closeness that will make the home en\·ironment better 00 
GEMINI (May 21•June 20); You're trying to do too many things for too manv pc~iple. Step back and be reahs• be ahont your projects. You wnn't bt• able to please e\'{'ll;,"1.me. Your cre,1tivt' tal~nt ,,'111 be-rccujjnizcd. 00<...)0 
CANCER Oun< 21-)uly 22): Loo\.; 
into making chang~s th.it will help 
cut back the amount of time you 
spend in transit. You will haw prob­
lems with rclatiYes who can't tolerate 
you doing things your way. 000 

LFO (July 23-Aug. 22), It is best t,, take your time while en route. Trans· rortatinn prohlpj'J'<lo \•vill ("Jft<,1! fur-~her 
000 
¦ OF INTEREST 

,,, <Continuing the Latin American Film Series, "La ·Tigra." (The Tigress) will be shown Tuesday night at 7 
p.m. in the Hesburgh Center auditorium. "La Tigra" was produced in Ecuador in 1990. 
Help celebrate a friend's birthday with an ad in The Observer. Call 1-6900 for rates and info. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You will not be pleased with the outcome of any project you've been working on. Rather than pointing a critical fin­ger, give it a few days and then decide how you want to chani;e things 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): You will find it easy to make po,itive changes in your hon1t..•. Listi.ming tn thl, dt.1sire!i of thost.' \'t'ltl livt' \,·ith will en,,bh1 )'llU h' plo..•J~:• p,•,~ry1,1\l' \',. 1u m.n· h,1,·l1 s.1..·mw .._idt1l'.'ulty A'-'tt111~ hl'ip ot;QO 
SCOfll'IO (Oct. 23-:-Sm·. 2ll: Y,,u can gd other pc,,ple tn do things for you or rou can ask for favors. It is best to do things with family. Much can be gained if )'C.lU !isten to those with wisdom and c,p<'ricnce. 00 
SAGffiARIUS (Nov. 22·Dec. 2U: You ma)' be moving to larger quar· ters. There is greater activity in your home, and positive changes arl' t.1~­ing place, You will have to bend ii you wish to get assist.rnce. 00000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. Jg): Your ability to forrct out informatiun will b<, a real plus. Make sure that yoy spend time with people "'ho can offer exciting solutions to probl,•ms that hi.1ve bt1,:.n causing you gril1 f. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): B<' 
careful \\'hat ,·nu cat. Prul,lc•ms with flwd~ or nwdi"Jtinn, ,l!L' il}'f'•HL'ltt. Financial inform,Hi<'n ,,·ill h,• enli~ht­ening and cnulJ l,•,,d to ,ome pretty bq; profits if you follmv through 
000 
PISCES (Feb 19-March 20); You will be in a passionate muod. Yuur dream\' nature \"·ill .,ttra..-t iio,;sible love i1~ter~sts. '>.\,l, shuu: ...: p!J.il .1n :•'!Uni1t"' t'Vt~nint; for !h'C' Dnn't hnld 
"JI 
The Observer 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
0 Enclosed is $45 for one semester 

Name _____________________ Address ___________________ 
City ________State ____ Zip______ 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Playwright William 
5Some Pennsylvania Dutch 
10 Carol 
H Thal, in France 15 Division of a 
long poem 16 Hard rain? 11 Besl P1clure of 
1995 
19 Tex. neighbor 20 Car that was always black 
21 Catch red-handed 22 Swerve 2J Arctic bird 
2s Goalie's 10b 27 Bed tur.ier? 
31 -andanon 32 "I didn't know 
that!" 33 Apphqued 38 Enl1ced 40 Crow's cry 42 Barber's work 
43--of 
Capricorn 45 Brit. fliers 
47 Roman road 48 "Cracklin' Rosie" 
s111ger 51 "Shane," e.g. ss "Last one -a 
rot1en egg!" 56 Robust s1Much of 
35-Down's terr. 59 Melodious 
63 w,1h defects and alt 
so Sufti~ with miflion 
51 Humpback. e.g. 
52 Stand tor something 
53 Go fur1ively 
54 They may come in a battery 
so Ready to be picked 60 Korbut on the beam 61 Egyptian canal 
62 Mind 65 The first of 13: Abbr 
• 

-------------------,.....-----·----------------.-----------------------------­

¦ The women's basket­¦ Bob Davie rounds 
baJI team looks for­out his coaching staff ward to a rematch with with two new hires. Rutgers tonight.
PORTS 
p. 16 p. 18 

page 20 -----------------------O THE Monday, March 1, 1999
BSERVER 
¦ WOMEN'S SWIMMING
¦ WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Cagers top Villanova in tourney 
By ANTHONY BIANCO 
As.is.am Spom E<liror 
PISCATAWAY, N.J. 
After barely escaping fro.m Villanova in December and later dominating it in February, it was unclear which Irish squad wowd . show up for their third meeting. this time in the second round of the Big East tournament. 
Tim latter Irish team checked into the Louis Brown Athletic Center Sunday night with Niele rvey's 19 points leading the way in a 83-53 win over Villanova as third-seeded :-.!otre Dame advanced to the semifinals for the fourth consecutive year. 
In the first few minutes of the game, the teams played as if the finish would be another close one instead of a blowout. Noire Dame and Villanova swapped leads four times in the first three minutes. both failing to build a quick drive off the tipoff that has been indica­tive of the tournament in its first two days. 
Coach Harry Perretta and his No. 6 seeded Villanova team were 

By WES RICHARDSON diving Coach of the Year. Barger in Friday's 100-yard Championship automatic
banking on the gameplan that they 

Sports Writer 'Tm really proud of them." butterl1y. qualifying times and re-wrote
executed to perfect@!. againstthe . 

Weathers said of his team Barger won the butterfly at the Big East record in all
Irish in the one-point loss: keep 

The 23rd-ranked Notre members. "They did a fantas­55.53, breaking her own Rig three events, earning the BigMutTet McGraw's team guessing on 
Dame women's swim team tic job and I'm really East and team records. East Women's Swimmer of
defense. 

stockpiled the awards last pleased." Allison Newell followed her, the Year award.
This time around the Wildcats 

weekend at the Big East Co-captain Liz Barger com­and Nixon ended in fifth Notre Dame's Kristen Van were unsrtccessful,faili11g to.take 
swimming mented on the team's speed. place. Saun and Tara Higgs placed
an early lead aftel'missltigI3 or·· 

and diving ~-1liill'!!lil"'!iiil"'!l•••i•ii~ill!llila~,I "I think this is the fastest Freshman Kelly Recking second and third respectively
its first 16 attempts frQm the field. 

champion­
meet by far that we've ever captured Notre Dame's fourth behind Crippen in the 500
"We used our special plays in 

ships. competed in. We had a lot individual win with a 56.00 in freestyle, while Barger andthe beginning of tM game," Sll.id 
On their more B-cuts [NCAA consider­the 100 backstroke. Newell did the same in thePerretta. "But we>ttrissed our.f.lrst• 
way to a ation times] than we expect­"Our team was really strong 200 butterfly. 
four shots. Oncetliat happens, 

third­ed," she said. and focused coming into the The Irish women dominated
there's a snowball effect. [Notre 

straight con­The Irish won som;dly with meet. Evervone excelled in the 100 breaststroke.
Dame} figured out our plays, and ference title, 790.5 points, their highest the more cclmpetitive envi­Shannon Suddarth defendedwe couldn't score off of them any• the team col-"""""'"'--'......c..c......"'"'--'C.:J team score. Villanova, ranked ronment," Barger said. "rt her Big East title in the event, more." 

lected eight 25th, came in second with just keeps getting better." and was followed by team­
Ivey· helped freeze the Wildcats' · 

race victories, seven team 613.5 points, followed by Weathers considered mates Allison Lloyd, Kathleen
efforts to keep pace with Notre 

records, six Big East records, Miami at 517. Villanova a strong competi­Rimkus and Brittany Kline.
Dame. Her jump shot off a Ruth 20 NCAA Championship con­Sophomore Carrie Nixon tor. despite the point differ­Their combined score totaled

Riley rebound gave the Irish the 

sideration times and one provided the meet's high­ence in the team scores. 49 points in a single heat.
lead at l7:44 in the first. Notre 

automatic time. lights. On Saturday, she Villanova freshman Maddy The next stnp for the
Dame never trailed again as two 

For the third-consecutive added to her record-setting, Crippen handily defeated women is NCAAminutes later Ivey had built the 
year. the conference elected 50-yard freestyle win from Irish swimmers in the 400 Championships, March 18-20.
lead to eight on a pair of three­Bailev Weathers women's Thursday with a victory in individual medley, 500 in Athens, Ga., where the

pointers. 

swimming Coach of the Year. the 100-yard freestyle. She freestyle and 200 butterfly. Irish hope to become one ofThe game leader in scoring with Caiming Xie won women's also placed third behind She crushed NCAA the nation's top 15 teams.
19 points on a perfect 5-of~5 from the field, 3-of-3 from three-point range and 6-of-6 from the charity 
¦ MEN'S BASl<ETBALL 
line, Ivey met Notre Dame's scor­ing needs after team-lead{n.g shooter Sheila McMillen was sin• 

Season-ending win leaves team 14-15.
gfed out by the Wildcats. Playing a box and one defense ­a zone defense with .man-to,man 

By JOEY CAVATO win over Boston College (6-20, 3-15). defensive plays and had sovcn assists in coverage on one player ~· 
Associare Sports Editor FivP starters scored in double figures 35 minutes. Villa.nova was able to h()ld 
as the Irish played one of their better "In tbc first half, I was focused on giv­McMillen to just niue points on 2· 
Sitting in the Joyce Center for the halves of basketball in a 48-25 second ing it to Phil and Troy in the post,"of-5 shooting. The five-attempts 
1998-99 men's basketball season has half. Notre Dame (14-15, 8-10) had lost Wyche said. ''I've had ganrns lih that murk is her fewest all season. 
been kind of like sitting on Mr. Toad's their last three home finales bel'orc throughout my career whnre I've been 
The 19 points by.. Ivey tii,d her 

Wild Ride. Sunday's win. shut out in the first but scornd in the with her personal best in confer• 
There have been many ups, downs Senior Phil Hickey finished his career second half, so it was nothing big for ence play this sea.son, recorded 
and twists. at the Joyce Center with a season-high n10." 
against Miami last week and 

Those things happen with a team that 21 points on 9-for-13 shooting. Fellow Head r.oach John Macleod applaudr.dSyracuse in January. Her. qurck 
starts two freshmen and a sophomore, senior Antoni Wyche came back after a the seniors' efforts in the second half. but on Sunday -Senior Day -evMy­scoreless first half to score 11 in the 
see TOURNEY/ page ll . 

thing fell into place in a feel-good 78-59 second. Wyche also made several key see WILD RIDE/ page 18 

at Michigan St!lte NCAA Track and Field
l'f,jj",

\~.,• \X'e<lnesday, 3 p.m. Championships Big East Tournament
St,
SPORTS 

Friday-Saturday New York, N.Y.
ATA 
Wednesday-Saturday, 
at Northwestern 

ar Miami TBA
'ftl)
~ Wednesday, 3 p.m. -~ Friday, 7 p.m. 
GLANCE 










