Joining "  
B*NCO · CE  
The Big Ten  

¦ This weekend's Keenan Revue raises ques­
¦ The Notre Dame fencing team opens their home 
Friday

tions for some students abouc rhe limits of 
season this weekend. 
humor. 
JANUARY 29, 
News• 3 

Sports• 24 
1999 


THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 78 
DECISIONS IN LONDON 
Editor's Note: 011 Fri., Feb. 5, the Board ofTrustees will meet in London to discuss, among other issues, Notre Dame's position on joining the Big Ten and the possibility oft1ddi11g the protection of sexual orim-tmion t() the University's non-discrimination clause. Throughout the days IMding to that meeting, The Observer will take a comprehensive look at the history andpeople behmd these two ismes as well r1r possible ramifications of decisions that the board might deliver. 



Big Ten could break up ND, NBC 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
N~ws Writer 
K1•npiug llH\ magic of' Notre Damn football alivn and aecessiblo outside tlw stadium wulls f'or !'ans, parents and alumni has not been a large problnm, for finding a Notrn Dame l'uothall game on tnlovision has btHm only a remote control away for the past I!i y1rnrs. 
But the advantage of having all Notro Damn homu games televised is in danger. Should the Board of' Trustcns opt for a move to the Big Tnn wlrnn it meets in London next week, weekly national coverage of Notrn Damn honw football games would not only Im endangered by a· rww Wlovision contract, but coverage could dticreasc nationally, said Melissa Conboy, associate athletic dirnctor. 
"Ont' of tlrn things that is enviable The Observer/Kevin Dalum about being an independent is that As the Board of Trustees Feb. 5 meeting nears, many Irish fans are curious about ev,iry 110nm game is tnh-wised evury what will become of Notre Dame's coveted television contract with NBC. 
week." said Conboy. "Undnr Big Ten 
run its duration. After that, it is an ever.

cov,irage, there are morn regional 
unknown," she said. "ABC. would "In order to remain with our cur­

telecasts. In one part of llrn nation, most likely look to continue I Big Ten I rent coverage, we would have to bethe Michigan/I.SU game could be coverage. Would NBC put in a bid? with our own network," Conboy said.
morn important, in another, the Ohio It's tough to say. We never know "We could never do both [networks]Statn game could bn." 
what the television market is. Looking at the same time."

Under the current television con­at television property values, they The advantages for the Big Ten
tract, all Notro Dame home games 
have been going up, but that is no television contract are clear-cut ­are covnrnd by NBC. If Notre Dame guarantee." Notre Dame football would serve as a

joins the Big Ten, all pre-existing 
Weekly national home game cover­lucrative addition to the Big Ten

agrenmnnts would stay in effect, 
age would be over regardless of what

Conboy said. 
network covers Big Ten football, how­

"The Notre Dame contract would see CONTRACT / page 6 
WWW. N D.EDU/~OBSERVER 
Pope calls for more control by bishops 
By LAURA PETELLE 
Assistant News Editor 
Is Notre Dame in dangor of losing its independence'? 
No, not to the Big Ten -to tlrn Vatican. Or, morn specifically, to tlrn control of the local bishop, John D'Arcy. 
While some deny that there is a thrc\at at all, others Sl\O a clear and present danger for Catholic higher educalion in the Unitcid States. The danger lies in a dispute between the Vatican and U.S. Catholic colloges and universities over the application of a 1<JIJO Vatican docu­ment called Ex Cordn Ecclesian. 
The argument is over a proposal that would transfer control of the United States' 236 Catholic colleges and uni­versities from their boards of' trustees to the local bishops. 
The document itsnlf is pastoral in tone, and the Vatican left it to each nation's bishops lo individualize the application of the document. In 1996, the National Conference of Catholic Bishops (NC.CB) approved a proposal for Ex Corde Ecclesiae's application in the United States by a vote of 224-6. 
The Vatican rnjected their document and demanded language that guaran­teed bishops control over the schools. The current draft under consideration was proposed in November by the NCCB. 
"In summary, an NCCB approval of this draft document would be profound­ly detrimental to Catholic higher educa­tion," wrote rather Edward Malloy, president of Notre Dame, and Father Donald Monan, past prnsident and cur­rent chancellor of Boston C.0ll1ige, in the 
see BISHOPS/ page 4 



Winter weather may cause fatigue, depression 
This is the third in a three-part series on winter weal.her in South Bend. The series appears on Fridays. 

The Observer/Kavin Dalum Besides cold temperatures and lake effect snow, winter in South Bend brings an increased risk of depression for students, especially those from ~rmer regions. 
By CHRISTINE KRALY SEASONAL AFFECTIVE DISOHDEH Assistant News Ediror When students complain that the 
Each year, when winter mars its ugly weather is driving them crazy, they may head on South Bend, a transformation not be exaggerating. occurs. "For a person adjusting to this I weath-
A fieree current whips tlrn ..---------, er]. this is hard." Vachon said. 
wind into a bitter nightmare, a sheet of pure white snow covers tho landscape, and, what the heck happens to the sun'? Life becomes drnary and desolate, just like the moods of some stu­dents on campus. 
"When there's less sun, people will complain and their moods ch ange," said Dr. Dominic Vachon, counselor at the University Counseling Center. The harsh weather and lack of' sunlight, combined with the everyday stress of student life, can make life on campus much harder during the winter months, according to Vachon. 
Students can oxp<ffi<mrn a "seasonal pattern ol' a depres­sive episodn," hn adclml. 
Whnn the wintnr air lrncomes unbearable and the sporadic naturn of' the sun works the nerves, a student can become susceptible to Seasonal Affective. Disorder ISADI. A stu­d1rnt may f'nel unusually tired or 

dnprossed, and could hneome lethargic. Students.especially those from warmer areas, are vuhrnrable lo this change in mood. 
"A common thing I hear is students l'rorn warmer parts ol' the country adjust-
see WINTER / page 6 


------. --~-------· 
page 2 The Observer. INSIDE Friday, January 29, 1999 

¦ INSIDE COLUMN 

Singles' Day 
Were you alone for the holidays? Was there no call on Christmas from your Significant Other? No little remembrance from your other hair? No one to kiss as the new year began? 
If you're an upper­classman, did the sea­sonal flurry of engage­ment announcements leave you out in the cold? 

If this is you, congratu­lations! You're one of the few, the proud, the 
Laura Petelle 
single. Assistam News Editor At Notre Dame, that's something of an oddity. After all, where else but Notre Dame can good Catholic boys and girls relate, date and mate? Almost anywhere, as the single person knows. Why limit your options? If you're single, hold your head high. You've stood firm against peer pressure. You've heen strong i.n the face of that cute blue-eyed boy in your sociology class. You've bravely ignored the fluttering eyelashes of your lab partnflr. You've defied the odds: 55 percent of Darners and Belles marry other Domcrs and Belles. YOU are not a statistic. These, however, are the times that try our single souls. Hight on the heels of' alone-for­thc-holidays December and admire-your­friends'-engagement-rings January. we are moving into the most dangerous month of all: February. February, the month of that insidious holi­day. Valentine's Day. Why should people who gave in to peer pressure get a holiday? Why not celebrate the few, the proud, the self-sufficient? Why don't those of us who stood firm against the onslaught of hormones get a holiday? It's easy to succumb to an ill-considered relationship in February. after the holiday nagging from relatives and facing the prospect of Valentine's Day SYRs. But stand firm -help is here. Recognizing the need for Singles' Support, my esteemed and oh-so-single friend Meredith came up with a plan: Singles' Day. On January 31, celebrate the first annual Singles' Day. Make your dating friends bring you flowers and gifts (they have lots of prac­tice with that kind of stufO. Go see a movie alone. Go out to dinner with other singles. Celebrate yourself and your independence from the tyranny of relationships (and rela­tionship gift occasions. as my colleague Mike Reevers complained in this space last week; paying for anniversary gifts, birthday gifts, Christmas gifts, SYR gifts, 'Tm sorry" flow­ers, date dinners, and long-distance phone calls can really add up). Celebrate the fact that you don't NEED an "other half' -you have two perfectly good halves of your own, thank you very much. Be proud of yourselves, single souls. Single ladies, you've resisted the dangerous "Oh­my-God-all-my-friends-are-engaged-to-nice­Ca tholic-boys-and-1 'm-not-and-I'll-never­get-to-wear-a-pretty-white-dress" Syndrome. Single gents, you've managed to avoid the deadly "Shoot-1-graduate-next­year-and-mom-won't-do-my-laundry-any­more" Complex. So, my single comrades, stand proud. Go out this Sunday. Demand cards and gifts. Remember Jan. 31. Celebrate Singles' Day. Don't worry; Hallmark will catch on. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
¦ TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Scene  
Erica The.sing  Sarah Dylag  
Tom Ennght  Kristi Klitsch  
Tim Logan  Graphics  
Sports  Joe Mueller  
Mike Connolly  Production  
Viewpoint  Noah Amscedrer  
Eddie Uull  Lab Tech  
Joe Stark  

Tho Ob,erver (USPS 599 2-4000) 1s published Monday through Friday except durjng exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associar~d Pre!i.s. All reprodttetion rigbrs ,re reserved. 



utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Olympic scandal investigators subpoena University of Utah 
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah 
Three possible Olympic scandals are unwrapping. The University of Utah is tangled in all three. 
The University was issued a sub­poena by the Federal Grand Jury last week. 
The Justice Department is seeking any information concerning records related to various students, medical services and transactions between the university and tho International Bid Committee and the Salt Lake Organizing Committee, University Legal Counsel Advisor John Morris said. 
"They have thrown a wide net, so as not to miss any information," Morris said. 
The Justice Department is just one of three investigatory committees looking into improper practices by the Salt Lake Organizing Committee. The U.S. Olympic Committee and 
¦ GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY Students protest single-sex rooms 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
Freshmen Clark Harding and Kathy Rooney took their case to the American Civil Liberties Union Friday after the University denied their request to live together on campus. Crawford Hall residents Harding and Rooney submitted a grievance and the Community Living and Learning Center's rejection of their request to the ACLU. Rooney said the pair is seeking the ACLU's advice and help. Harding and Rooney went to CLLC last semester to request a coed room next fall. They fil{ld a grievance justifying their request Jan. 11. CLLC rejected the request, saying in a letter that University regulations prohibit them from liv­ing together because they are not of the same sex. "We should be able to make our own decisions as to who we room with," Rooney said. Harding said he feels his freedom of individual expression is being violated by the University's policy. He said he and Rooney are pushing the issue because they feel it is important. 
¦ OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY Y2K problem might affect winter term 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 
Winter Quarter next year just might get off to a late start because of Y2K computer concerns. For the last three weeks, meetings of Ohio State's Y2K task force have included discussing the option of closing the uni­versity for the first several days of Winter Quarter 2000 if the functioning ability of key systems remains unclear, according to Dan Allen, a task force member represent­ing University Technology Services. "We don't need to make this decision right away," Allen said, stressing that closing the university is just one of many options the task force must consider, many of which may or may not be executed. But if the university did decide to close school, the decision would have to be made "cer­tainly by the end of Spring Quarter," so that the univer­sity, could adjust its calendar accordingly, said David Williams II, vice president for student and urban/com­munity affairs. 


• SOUTH Bnm WEATHER 

The AccuWeather1" forecast for noon, Friday, Jan. 29. 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

AccuWeather ® forecast for daytime conditions and high tern tures 40s.,_,,.,,,,,___ Lines separate high temperature zones for lhe day. 20s 
' ,,I~.
f'' ,,,~ 
l 

FridayT ~ ·.38 28 Saturday ¢-44 25 Sunday i d:1-39, 32 
FRONTS:

Monday c:::1f 44 31 
.....,... ................... 

c 1999 Accuweather1 Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY Pre11ure:
Tues1day ".;i\~, · i.~1B~ 

® © .~ . ~BJl ..~~ 
High Low Showers Rain 'T-storm• Flurrles Snow Ice Sunny Pt, Cloudy Cloudy
C~>.,.,J·~·.. ·-....,;-­
~'I,.;,; 
,:\f}i; 

Via Associarod Press 
Atlanta 60 51 Dallas 45 39 Miami 82 70 Baltimore 47 41 Denver 48 20 New York 40 36 Baton Rouge 71 59 Honolulu 81 69 Phoenix 65 40

4-~-~q~Q(f ~ u 

Chicago 38 23 Indianapolis 37 32 St. Louis 35 30
Show·ers T~storms Rain Flurries SfJoW tee Sunny Pt. CloUdy Cloudy 

Columbus 36 33 Los Angeles 70 46 Tulsa 42 33
\Ila AS$QCiateci Press GraphicsNBI 


One investigation has been com­pleted. The International Olympic Committee released the conclusion of their investigation Sunday. Six IOC members were asked to step down. Twelve others are still under investi­gation. 
The Justice Department has allegedly gathered checks written for tuition payments made out to the university in Sibusiso Sibandze's name. 
¦ BOSTON UNIVERSITY Health benefits for partners stirs debate 
BOSTON, Mass. 
The recent decision by the president of Pennsylvania State University to deny health benefits to the domestic partners of gay and lesbian faculty is unwise and unjust, officials from several colleges said yesterday. Confronted with opposition from members of the Pennsylvania General Assembly and a potential funding crisis, Penn State President Graham Spanier early this month defied the recommendations of the university's faculty Senate and did not approve a package of bene­fits for employees' same-sex partners. Domestic part­nerships are offered in lieu of legal marriage to gay and lesbian couples who are involved in long-term relation­ships. Most states require that the couples have been living together for a specific period of time and plan on living together indefinitely. They must also demonstrate mutual financial responsibilities, such as a joint bank account or lease. 
¦ UNIVERSITY Of CAUFORNIA-los ANGELES Man sues over missing documents 
LOS ANGELES, Calif. 
Nearly five years after discovering that documents he had leant to the university were missing, Edward Erath saw his lawsuit against UCl.A go to trial Wednesday in Los Angeles Superior Court. Erath's lawyers have accused the university of negligence and infliction of emotional distress, and they are seeking compensation for the income they allege Erath has lost because of his missing papers. The documents, which Erath leant to UCl.A in 1983, represented over 10 years of research aimed at improving the performance of government agencies, he said. The papers, which Erath esti­mated weighed more than one ton, have been assigned a value of over $700,000 by expert witnesses hired by his attorneys. "He was going to use them when he retired," said Penny Wheat, one of Erath's attorneys. "He's been deprived of those documents for at least five years." Erath said he has been unable to find work and has had to turn down offers to use his research since he did not keep duplicate copies. 
David Sibandze, Sibusiso's father, is a current member of the IOC. 
Sibusiso is listed in the 1991-92 University Student Directory as a Pre-business major, freshman. In the following years' directories he is not listed. 
The Salt Lake Tribune reported that Sibusiso obtained both master's and bachelor's degrees from the uni­versity. 
Tho Tribune also reported that Sibusiso's father allegedly attempted to obtain a scholarship for another son to attend college in Falun, Sweden, when it placed their bid for the 1988 Winter Games. 
''There are several investigations taking place. The University has and will cooperate in these investiga­tions," Morris said. 
The law prevents the University from discussing information about the investigations, Morris said. 

.... 7
Friday, January 29~ ~9_?~ The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
----------------------------------------'-~­

Some view Keenan Revue humor as offensive 
Colln1:livn a11d public. During a Saint Marv's lhis limn.
'THEKEENAN REVUE IS 

s1•11ior. said the changes can be 
USING THE POWER OF 

1'.1innan Hnvtw rnadn in any is anything hut HUMOR TO REASCRIBE material that funny. might be l'ouncl
OPPRESSIVE ATTITUDES

"I WPlll my offensive. f'rPshman ynar TOWARD OTHER MINORITY "We have and l<!l't in the snmo Saint
GROUPS.'

middli• lwn111sp Mary's girls. I f'o1111d il . ;11 some women off1•11sivi• to KW,Ll' o,m1s roe tors from mysPlf and dorms at Notre
l'//1,.',1/JEN/' OF TIii,' FH/l!INIST

oth,ir g-roups Dame and !hal Wt'l'P tar-Cou.F<.TWE mvselr sit down gf'l<'<I. t'\'011 a11cl watch tlrn !hough I might not havt• benn n µnrformam;n," said Scully. 
Jl il rl fl f I Im SI' grOll IJ S, " S lt jd Tlw Saint Mary's women Curlis. "I'm not against humor involvecl in the screening are and parody jokes in which appointed by student govcrn­
pv1•ryo1rn is inrlud,id and can men l, said Gcnrgeanna laugh ahoul iL. hul thnrr. is n lloscnbush. director of Student sharp di!f(\rr.nc1! lwtwenn that i\ctivitins at Saint Mary's. amt what tlrn Knnnan Hr.vun is." "Thn whole rationale Clf 
Tim dif'1'(1nincr., nxplained including women in thr. screen­Curtis, can be l'ound in I.Im mr.n ing process was to give a of K1\t!111tn llall making nffen­f'emale perspective. There was siw and degrading jokr.s about some concern about making fun wonwn from Saint Mary's and of people with eating disorders Nolrt• Da1111• without womon and portraying people being participating. In llw ll1wuP, not drunk and having sex but not 1w1•ry01w is sharing in the com­linking that to daln rapn," said mon nxp1!rir.ncr., said Curtis. Hosenbush. 
"Tlw Knr.nan llnvun is using The dirnctor or the Keenan tilt' pownr of humor to llnvue, junior Bill McNamara, 
admits that what might have bnPn edited from the Revue earlier in Lim week could show up in tlrn last performance on Saturday night. 
"Saturday night tends to he more outrageous than the other nights," said McNamara. 
This r.reatns a challenge for Scully. 
"It's really a hard thing to monitor. You can threatr.n them but if you have a.threat, you have to curry it out," said Scully. "You just have lo appeal to thnir I Koon an Hevuo partici­pants! common sense and good charucter." 
Jokes about homosexuals are not allownd, said Scully. 
"You have tu be very careful about that ijokes abClut homo­smwalsl." said Scully. "The het­erosexual malo thinks that is !'air gamp and we have to work on that bocause we are a homo­phobic campus." 
"The Kennan Revue is not intended to put people down. It's int0nded for entertainment and laughs which seem to be lacking on Lhis campus." 
McNamara agreed. "I feel bad some people are offended. The Keenan Hevuo is a gift tu the entire University family to make everyone smile and laugh. In no way is it intended to be olfon­sive:' 
This year. the Revue will con­tain the traditional jokes about Sai.nt Mary's, Breen Phillips and Farley , said McNamara. But the Revue will include other things like magic acts and a group of guys who can play songs with beer bottles, he added. 
Jessica Martin knows her dorm is a target in the Keenan 


Revue. Breen Phillips is labelPd in the Rnvue as the "fat dorm." But this doesn't bother Martin, who attended the Revue last year and will attend the event again this year. 
"I think it's hilarious. I don't take offense because they make fun of everyone," said Martin. "I had friends in other dorms that don'l get made fun of' and they were jealous. It makes me feel like part or the campus to be included in thn joktis." 
Curtis disagreed. 

"Every year men and women from Saint Mary's and Nolrn Dame tell people that they are taking the Keenan Hnvue too seriously," said Curlis. "This is not a matter of pnople taking it too seriously, but ol' not taking it seriously enough. The only way tlrn Keenan Hevuo will ever change or go away is if pnople slop condoning it." 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY 
As,or:iate New, Fditor 
For llrotlinr Bonavc'ntur11 Srully, rnclor or K1!nna11 llall, llw Knt>tull1 HPvun is a gift to Noln! Dame and Saint Mary's. 
"Thi! Knnnan Hnvun is sup­pos,•d lo bn a f'r<'I' gif't lo Urn 1:ampustis during Llw doldrums ot'wintt•r." said Scully_ 
1loW!'VPr, th<'r<' an! somp who lwl{ to diffl'r. K1•lly Curtis, pn~sid,ml of tlw I.' t~ 111 i ll i S t 
rnascrihn opprossiv1' attiludPs toward ntlwr minority groups," sh,~ said. 
Scully does not belinv,! that tlrn llnvun is offonsiv<!. 
"Thr.r11 is a tine linr. br.twecm just kidding about some things and bning offensive," said Scully. "But what's offm1sivr. to so1111! might not be offensive to othnrs." 
A scro,,ning pror.nss occurs during one ol' Urn rnhearsal nights hnforo the H1wuo is per­
formed for ttrn 
Cast[e 9?oint ;r\partments Cleveland & Ironwood Roads 272-8110 www.castle-point.com Monday-Saturday 8am -6pm Sunday 12pm -5pm 
• 

page 4 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS Friday, January 29, 1999 


The Ob.~l'rvert.Jo.: Mueller 

Candidates throw in their hats 
The candidal.ns for the 1999-2000 student body president and vice president met Thursday at 5 p.m. to turn in their petitions and declarn their intentions to run. Each ticket needed 150 student signatures to be eligible for tho election. Campaigning begins Monday at midnight; primary eleclions are Monday, Jan. 8. 

Bishops 
continued from page 1 
Father Donald Monan, past president and current chancel­lor of Boston College, in the Jan. 30 issue of "America," a Jesuit magazine. 
Notre Dame has appointed an ad hoc committee to evalu­ate the current draft. The com­mittee will convene Feb. 1 under the direction of John Cavadini, chairman of the the­ology department. Attempts to reach Cavadini were unsuc­cessful. 
The consequences for Catholic colleges and universi­ties would be many and varied if the proposal were put into effect. Under Title Vil, Catholic colleges can only receive fed­eral aid if they are controlled by a lay board. Putting the col­leges in the hands of the local bishops would mean no gov­ernment money for the school and no federal aid for stu· dents. 
Tho draft also requires that presidents of Catholic institu­tions take an oath of fidelity to the Church and that theolo­gians receive a mandate from the local bishop allowing them to teach. 
Universities are urged to recruit only "faithful Catholics" for their faculties. Making "faithfulness" the prime quali­ty desired in a recruit could mean sacrificing academic quality for magisterial loyalty and could open the University up for discrimination lawsuits. The bishops left the definition of "faithful" open, leading to confusion in how this would be applied. 
"I think according to American understanding the proposal does [infringe on aca­demic freedom and institution­al autonomy]." said Father Richard McCormick, a profes-


Take a Free Test Drive 
and find out! 
Notre Dame Test Drive Saturday, February 6, 1999 Call today to reserve your seat! 




~•:l:uif:11• 
1·IOO·KAP-TEST 
www.kaplan.com 

sor of theology at Notre Dame. document ... that fully safe­McBrien. "The !original NCCB] "Those two are held in very guards the interests of' both proposal was such a docu­high esteem in educational cir­the universities and the church ment. It has been and can be cles." and newly advances both." done." 
"Approving the teachers of "I share the sentiment that McBricn does not think the 
theology that's current draft docu­direct outside interfer-ment will be put into ence," he added. effect, but
'THE BISHOPS WILL VOTE AT THEIR NEXT
Requiring Catholic McCormick dis-teachers of t.hf,ology to MEETING. WILL THEY STAND UP TO agrees. 
obtain a mandate is in ROME OR SUBMIT TO ROME?' "The whole thing's 
the Code of Canon Law not over yet," he of 1983. but these said. "The bishops canons do not apply to will vote at their institutions founded by FATl/Ell RICHARD MCBIIIEN next meeting. Will a religious order. said they stand up to
PROFESSOR OF Tl/EOWGY AND ECCLFSIOWGIST 
professor of theology Rome or submit to and ecclesiologist Home'? It's time that Father Hi chard the bishops stand up McBrien. they'll come up with some lo the Vatican and tell them 
"Even though the vast major­solution that is workable and what we need. not have them ity of Catholic colleges and will respect the commitment to tell us what we need." universities in the United maintaining Catholicity of 
States were established under higher learning without sacri­the sponsorship of religious ficing institutional autonomy institutes, the Icurrent propos­or academic freedom," said al] overlooks this important distinction," wrote Malloy and Monan. 


•~NOTRE DAME
y.l FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
For People. Not For Profit. 
'Must be a full time employee and direct deposit your net pay. 
The Boston Globe and "America" contributed to this report. 
www.ndfcu.org (219) 239-6611 (800) 522-6611 
~ ~ 
Independent of the University 

Friday, January 29, l999 
¦ WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Man leaves $3.4M for teens 
KIN(; AND ()uEEN, Va. 

Au ncc•pntric millionaire with a reputa­tion of' bning cxlr,~mely frugal wound up bi1qmmthing $:·t4 million in collogr. schol­arships for toen-agrrs in rural eastorn Virginia. Beginning this spring, a commit­t1•1i will pick stucfonts to recnive four annu­al $[1,000 scholarships in tho name of Thomas 1.-ranklin Fary. "! lo had maclo all of' his morwy living in this part of Virginia anti lw wantncl to mlurn it to tho area," William l.1\wis, Fary's attorney. said Thursday. Fary diod in 1995 at the age of 
92. Dm,pit11 a fortunn made in timbBr, tlrn millionaire took baths in a rivl'r rat.lrnr than pay for water, and hung out at a local storo to pick up ldtovnr packagos of crack­ers lnf't by diners. "When cracknrs startod coming in small!lf packages. it nllarly killed him," said Cilrey. 
Man sues for HIV misdiagnosis 
CIIICAGO 

An Ohio man is suing his formm· doctor 
for al111gedly misdiagnosing him with IIIV 
and then prescribing a potent drug that 
had to ho taknn each day for morn than six 
yours. Mark Savage contends he was nevnr 
even teswd for IIIV by Dr. David Blatt and 
his colh!agues at Illinois Masonic Medical 
Ccntnr in Chicago. Savage, a 43-year-old 
flight attendant who has since moved from 
Chicago to Dayton, Ohio, did not return a 
to!liphorrn mcssago Thursday. llis lawsuit 
says Im was diagnosed with the AIDS virus 
in .July 1990 and treated with AZT and 
othnr A[l}S-lighting drugs through 1996. ln 
addition Lo "extreme mental pain and suf­
fering," Savago's lawsuit says he oxperi­
em:rnl such AZT-induced side effects as tin­
gling hands, vision and bowel problems, 
and deprnssion. 
Pol guilty in bribe sting 
CHICA.GO 

A city councilman was found guilty Thursday of' accepting $7,000 from an undcr­covtff informant in an ongoing FBI sting on political corruption. A federal jury delibcrat­Pd for lwo hours before rnturning the verdict against Virgil Jones, 49, in the probe Operation Silver Shovel. Prosecutors said .Jones took payofI,; of $4,000 and $3,000 to allow the inl'ormant -posing as a contractor -to operat<1 a rock crusher in his ward. The payrnrn1ts wem made in Dccembnr 1992 and .January 1993. Joni's had testified the money rc11rcsented a legal political contribution. .Jones and an associate, Charles Nix, were convictnd of conspiracy to commit extortion and attempted extortion. 

1265.37 
Composite
+22.20 
Volume: 

+81.10 8110,660,685 
VOLUME LEADERS 

1IUrfl'~~U'. IHI.UH '!1 fll,~!Siil S:l1~I~ 1·su·t 
IN1H COUP INTC .J ..t-1 +4.44Tltl l.!7.19 
nu,1, (·0M1•trn:1« Pl\1.1, -1-6.-1;-t, +5.b')OO 94.19 
MJOUlSi.WI' CORP M\H +,\.J(J +5.J1!.0 174.00 
A~HR llNI.INF AOI. -+.S.S9 . 9.25{)0 174.H 
<:tlMl'All n>MrUrER l'Pl. --Z~ .0.1200 47..!tt 
O.\('.O SY.'iU.M" ('~( () .~.26 .~.44.Z~ fUIUiH 
/JNATOJt c:NOUP l -b.4:l .o.:u7~ -l.t.i2 
INH.RII ms INC-A tNI-XA +.147 -+0.f)l)75 2.q1
Hk\l (INION UlK .Fill -.M -11.4.17' ~1.75 
fU\NI-V l>J.\ -tL7I t0.562.'\ :tJ,50 
... 

.', ~., ., ·,. '.~~;;~;?,;_ 't:·~t' 
-~--rr:.f;~,: -, 
-~.,~:~~~ 
't ,-.~ 
l-·-,; ': 1: , ", , 
"' ~: ""'"4,.. '•>"
,·,1···,·,· 
"< 
)' .___.,__,.,,,,' 

COMP/I.FD FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 

AFP Photo 

Senate_ minority leader Thomas Daschle (D-SD) talks to reporters after his party's motion to bring President Clinton's trial to an 1mmed1ate vote. Republicans set Feb. 12 as a target date for a vote on Clinton's guilt or innocence. 
Senate votes to continue trial 
A'iSC>CIJXl'ED PRESS 
\VASI 11'\JCTON 
Brushing aside Dnmocni t.ir ob_j('C· tions, Snnatc lkpublicans 011 Thursday opened the door to publh: broadcasl or Monica Lewinsky's vidcolapnd testi­mony as they nrnsdod through rules governing tho halanni or Prnsidcnl Clinton's imprnu:hnwnt trinl. 
In a rapid-lirn sc~ies or roll calls, majority Republicans also crushed a Democratic call for an imnwdialn votn on Clinton's fatn and an altnrnaliw sill of rules that would havn barr11d .iny public viewing of the qtwslioning that Ms. Lewinsky is lo und,irgo early nnxt week. 
By their votns. lfopublicaris s,it hib. 12 as a target datn for a linal votn on Clinton's guilt or innocnncn on lhe two articles or impnacl11m\11l, which allnge perjury and obstruction ol'justirn. 
"That's our goal and we havn set in motion a procnss that will get us them," m,~jority lcador Tnml I.oil told 
¦ NATO 

rnport,:rs, although he conceded the targnt could slip. Lott said the first d<'llosition would be Monday, with Ms. Lewinsky, and While llousn aide Sidney Hlumenlhal and prnsidcntial f'ri1md Vernon Jordan would bn ques­tionnd over the two following days. All the sessions will bn rncordecl on vidoo­Lape, and Lott said, "Exactly what hap­prn1s to tJiat vidnolape is not clarified or limited." 
That's up to the Senate itsolf' to dncide, he said. 
On another key point, Hepublicans ld"t room !'or a vote on "fact finding" that would staln formally that Clinton had committed offenses, even ii' he wasn't Lo be removed from ollice. The Democratic scenario would havn prc­vnntnd Republicans from even submit­ting such a docunrnnt for a vote. 
The Whito House accused the H11publicans of "power politics." 
"It's dear the spirit of' bipartisanship nvaporated today. and that this has b1ico11rn a Republican imp1rnchment trial," said spokesman James Kennedy. "The plan that was adopted is vague and it has no certain end. It appears to contain trap doors that could significantly extend this trial." 
But Sen. Robert Bennett, R-Utah, countered: "This is not a deep dark plot on the part of Hcpublicans to slip anything over." 
The vote was 55 to 43 against a motion by Daschle to go immediately to four final hours of debate and then vote on the articles of impeachment. Sen. Russell Feingold of Wisconsin, was the sole lawmaker to cross party lines, just as he was the only Democrat to vote Wednesday against dismissal of the charges. 
Before that, the Senate rejected Democratic leader Tom Daschle's plan to limit to writing all public evidence of the depositions of witnesses, prevent­ing the showing on the Senate floor of the videotaping that the House Hepublican prosecutors want and the White Ilouse opposes. 
'Turning point' reached in Kosovo 

Assoc1..xrw PRESS 
BRUSSELS, Belgium 
NATO issuNi a solemn warning Thursday to hoth sidBs in t.tw Kosovo crl<;is: Negotiate a political s(11ttmnont now or else. 
NATO's military lirepower is cnlis­ing Lhe Adriatic Soa and rnady al allied airfields in Italy, with dozens of ships and planes preparnd to rain havo<: upon rnculcitrant Sorbs. 
The allied mcasurcs also nnvision a program Lo cut off arms a11d financ­ing to tlrn rebel Kosovo l.iboraUon Army. 
"We arc at a critical turning point in the Kosovo crisis," Ni\TO Sccrotary-Gcncru.l .hivior Solana told reporters at NATO headquarters. "The next few days will he dDcisivo." 

lie said tho six-nation Contact Group. made up of the United States. Hussia, Prance, Britain, Germany and Italy, will meet Friday in London to launch a new political initiative to bring peace to Kosovo. 
"ll will bo fully backod by NATO's military capabilities," Solana empha­sized. "We are ready to acl if 11eces­sary. Tho partins must snizn this opportunity." 
Socrniary of State Madeleine Albright. who will attend tlrn meHting in London, welcomed NATO's deci­sion as 11 "first step,'' according to spok1·sman James Rubin. 
Tho negotiations aim Lo get tho two sides to accept a U.S. plan on cxpand­nd solf-rule for Kosovo's ethnic Albanian majority. Kosovo is a province of Yugoslavia's main rnpub• 
lie, Serbia, and most residents favor independence. 
B,~lgrude's B~iui news ,igency quot­ed Gorman Ambassador Wilfried Gruber as saying the negotiations would be similar to th(1 1995 talks in Dayton, Ohio, which ended Bosnia's war, in that ~the negotiators will be in one place ... and they will not come out until they r(lach ,tgn1emont." 
The American formula provides for the two sides to set aside the indepen­dence iss1rn for three years, after which the parties could resume dis­cussions on the province's long-term future. 
About 2,000 pHople have died n.nd nearly 300.000 11ave been driven from their homes in seven months of fighting in Kosovo botWl~l}O the KIA and Serb forcos. 



page 6 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS Friday, January 29, I999 
Winter 
continued from page 1 
ing to this climate," Vachon said. 
While Vachon admits that he hears complaints about the lack of sun, ospm~ially in Frbruary, he said that SAD is a "major depression," and is usually rare among students on campus. 
"When you're feeling bad one day, and you wonder [whyl, [the season] amplifies what you're feeling bad about," he said. 
Because students already feel bogged down with the pres­sures of academia, tho absence of sun "adds to the load people carry," Vachon said. 
TIIEHE'S NO PLACE LIKE 

COLD, BITTER SOUTH BEND 
Although South Bend winters are a great way to beat the heat, they can cause trauma for students from warm. sunny regions. 
"It's definitely harder to go to classes," said Camilla Rodgers, a sophomore from New Mexico. Rodgers also said the lack of sun is "bizarre -I'm definitely not used to that." 
The transition from the swel-

Call ·News,::, 1-5323 


ERASMUS BOOKS 
•Used 
books bought and sold 

•25 
Categories of Books 

•25,000 
Hardback and Paperback hooks in stock 

•Out-of-Print 
search service: $2.00 

•Appraisals 
large and small 


Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 
ter to the snow can be a diffi­cult one, especially for Mike Mann, who "just gets frustrated [waiting for a sunny day]." Mann, a freshman from Texas. said adjusting to South Bend winter was hard at first, but that he's pretty used to it by now. 
Some students, Vachon said, "expect [the winter! to make them feel worse. People will predict 'this is going to be a bad month' the same way some people will always complain about the dining hall food," he added. 
Not everyone is challenged by the change in weather. Alice Fox, an Arizona native at Saint Mary's, represents what she sees as a small, but apprecia­tive group that loves South 
Bend winters. "It's differ­ent,"said Pox. ''I'm enjoying it."Shc added that the cold is a nice change from her home­town heat. 
THE SUN WILL COME OUT­WIIEN? 
For students wondering when the sun will shine again over the Golden Dome, answers are few and far between. 
Though SAD is rare and not ~sually prevalent on campus, its symptoms can plague those 
HAPPY Birthday Dilom! 
not used to the cruel nature of a typical South Bend winter. 
"lt's oommon for people to foci more stress in their lives when there is not sun," Vachon said. He noted that there are ways of coping with the cold: 
• 
Be aware of the cold its pos­sible affects on your mood and ability to make wise decisions. 

• 
"[As impossible as it seems,] go where it's sunny." This should help lift your spirits and get rid of some depressing foel­mgs. 

• 
"Make friends with the win­ter" by cross-country skiing, snow tubing or even going for a walk. "Make it work for you." 

• 
Diet, exercise and move around. Students tend 1.o stop activity once it gets darker. 


In general, all students suffer some sort of winter blues. Whether it's increased fatigue, or mild, depressing thoughts, no one is safe from the Northwest Indiana winter war­fare. Students will just have to bundle up and ride it out and do what they can to heat things up. While Mann longs for those sunny days, he copes by work­ing out, or hanging out with his friends. Alice Fox, however, couldn't be happier. 
"I love the snow," she said. 

Contract 
continued from page I 
package. Notre Dame may not see as many advantages as the conference would, however. 
"Notre Dame could incrnase the value of the Big Ten pack­age, so that could be a finan­cial benefit," Conboy said. "But I ~an't see an upside to only bemg on regional television." 
The decrease in national cov­erage could also serve as a blow to recruiting efforts, especially for football. 
"If you have a recruit who knows that their parent can't come to every game, knowing that those games are televised has ~een a very nice recruiting tool for coaches," Conboy said. 
While football is at a clear disadvantage for television coverage under the Big Ten, other sports. su~h as women's basketball and vo1leyball, may see increased coverage. 
"The Big Ten dors allow more of an opportunity for some of the other sports to see 
Voted: Area's Best Tanning Center Every Year 
r-----------------, r-----------------,
: 10 tanning :01• : 1 month • : 
I • I I
! sessions : : of unlimited tanninu : 
I S'.JO J: : _________________ J:
L _________________ L S'.JS 
l•niversity Commons Grap(i & McKinley 
by l'P :Hall mmr KMart 
272-7653 256-9656 
3rd NEW location Southland Plaza at Ireland & lronvvood 291-2000 

You can post a picture of youand some of your friends. 


·or you can post a picture of youand these kids fro,m the library. 
more coverage, which could help recruiting in those sports/ Conboy said. 
"One of the advantages to the Big Ten coverage is that they have a game of the week," said women's basketball coach Muffet McGraw. ''Depending on where that is picked up, it can be a big selling point for recruiting. While being on tele­vision is definitely important, the year we wcnt to tlrn Final Four we were on television 15 tir~es. tr you're good, you're gomg to g<'t cov1irage." 
Although a Big Ten tBlevision package will not includo week­ly national coverage, it does offer one thing that the N13C contract cannot: stability. 
"Networks look at the future of a program and determine if il is too expensive," said Conboy. "They make decisions -certain networks have dropped th~ NFL because it got t~lo exp~ns1ve. While our posi­t1 o~ wit~. ~BC now is very enviable, Ii 1t weren't renewed in the future, we'd be in a worse position." 

Friday, January 29, 1999 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS page 7 

John M. Marshall's, Inc~ 
Established 1965 
Diamonds Engagement Rings & Wedding :!Bands 18karat Yellow Gold & Platinum" 
Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely with information in our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, 186 pages, 2nd edition, hardbound. 
John M. Marshall 
Jeweler/ Gemologist / Mineralogist 
Telephone: 287-1427 Monday -Friday, lOa.m. to 6p.m.KeyBank Building, Suite #101, South Bend, Indiana 46601 


a beautiful, widowed mother and her six year-old son become bound to a handsome and charismatic thief 

i~ffeffYf~ifonal fi I"l~~SJtyal japan 
russia 
a paroled wife-murderer settles into a remote town and befriends a woman with a 


spain 
a woman receives an answering machine kiss-off her lover and sets forth across madrid to 

in9RHHHW»nal film festival . FREE
cuslimg aurntonurn , 

films begin at 8pm in cushing auditorium, admission is free courtesy of sub and international student affairs 
e 
www.nd.edu/~sub 

lBlElfl(:>I'{lE SSJP AlF'"l'lBlR SSJ.P
P __ 
--~--­

Summer Service Projects 
. 8 weeks ofservice learning 

C E ~I 't• f, fl f O It 

. $1700 tuition scholarship SOCIAL. 
CONCERNS

. Valuable alumni contacts . 3 credits Theology, with possible cross-lists . Over 200 sites across the U.S. and abroad 
January 29th .. ~pplication Deadline 
page 8 The Observer • NEWS Friday, January 29, 1999 
¦ ANGOLA 
Government wants U.N. peacekeepers out of country 
Officials plan 
to reject security resolution 
As•ociated Press 
LUANDA 

The Angolan government wants U.N. peacekeepers to leave the country but is willing to let U.N. aid workers stay, a senior official said Thursday. 
Higino Carneiro, deputy min­ister for Territorial Administration, told Angola's 
parliament that the govern­. ment will reject a U.N. Security· Council resolution to keep some peacekeepers in the 
southwestern African country. 
The peacekeepers were sent 
to monitor the implementation 
of a 1994 peace accord, which 
disintegrated last month. 
Fighting has spr·ea.d throughout 
the country, prompting the 
United Nations to pull all iis 
personnel back to the capital, 
Luanda. 
"The government will not 
accept the continued presence 
of any member of the United 
Nations observer mission in 
Angola," Carneiro told the 
National Assembly. 
The National Assembly 
responded with two motions, 

Pope works to get clemency for killer 
Associated Press 
JEFPERSON CITY, Mo. 

With a papal plea, thB gover­nor's grace and a lottery win­ner's luck, convicted triple mur­derer Darrell Mease has escaped the death penalty. 
It remains to be seen whether Gov. Mel Carnahan will evade political consequences for granting clemency to Mease fol­lowing a face-to-face plea from Pope John Paul II. 
Carnahan, a Baptist and a Democrat, is running for a U.S. Senate seat next year in a state where it's widely accepted that most voters favor capital pun­ishment. 
"'God help him if there are any grieving relatives (of Mease's victims), because he will need the pope to come back to campaign for him," said University of Virginia political scientist Larry Sabato. 
On 26 occasions, Carnahan has allowed the death penalty to proceed. Before Thursday, he 
_ had commuted a death sen­tence just once, for a man whose jury wasn't told of his mental retardation. The pope has spoken out fre­quently against capital punish­ment and he did so again dur­ing his two-day visit to St. Louis this week. In 1991, before Carnahan was governor, the pope asked Missouri to reduce the sentence of Glennon Sweet for killing a state trooper. Carnahan reviewed Sweet's case, but declined to halt his 

ALL FEATURES IN ULTRA STEREO 
JACK FROST (PG) 
2:15. 4:40. 7:25, 9:40 MIGHTY JOE YOUNG (PG) 2:00, 3:50, 4:45, 7:10, 7:40, 9:50, 10:20 
PATCH ADAMS (PG 13) 1;35, 2:30, 4:10, 5:10, 7:20, 7:50, 10:00, 10:30 
PRINCE OF EGYPT (PG} 
2:20, 3:20, 4:50, 5:40, 7:35, 8:05, 9:55, 10:35 
SHAKESPEARE IN LOVE (RI 
1:50, 4:30. 7:55, 10:35 
STAR TAEK: INSURRECTION (PG) 
1:30, 2:35, 4:00, 5:20, 7:00, 7:45, 9:35, 10:25 
THE WATERBOY (PG 13) 
2:35, 5:05, 7:30, 9:46 
THIN RED LINE (R) 1:20, 3:00, 4:55, 8:30, 7:00 
WAKING NED DEVINE {PG)
2:50, 5:00, 7:15, 9:30 
r l"dth fl xfTh !l
' 
•No passes 
one urging the government to terminate the U.N. mission and another blaming the United Nations for the slide back to war. 
The United Nations has spent $1.5 billion over the past four years on implementing the peace deal. The peacekeepers' mandate expires Feb.26. 
In a report on Angola earlier this month, U,N. Secretary­General Kofi Annan recom­mended pulling out the U.N. mission, but the Security Council supported "a multidis­ciplinary presence" in Angola, presumably involving political, military and humanitarian per• sonnel. 
As a sign of the worsening situation in Angola, Faustino 

Muteka, minister for Territorial Administration, told lawmakers that the govern­ment was preparing an official document announcing that it was abandoning the 1994 peace treaty. 
The Security Council has blamed UNITA -a Portuguese acronym for the National Union for the Total Liberation of Angola -for failing to carry out key elements of the agree­ment requiring the rebel force to disarm and turn over terri­tory to the government. 
Civil war erupted in Angola after its 1975 independence from Portugal. A 1991 peace agreement collapsed the fol­lowing year. 
In Havana, the Cuban gov­
ernmcnt on Thursday denied recent reports that Cuban mili• tary advisers are helping Angola's army in the civil war. 
"That information is totally false," Foreign Ministry spokesman Alejandro Gonzalez said at a weekly news confer­ence. "We have a civilian pres­ence, such as doctors." 
Dozens of Cuban doctors and nurses are working at the Luanda Military Hospital, where wounded government troops are being treated as part of a cooperation agree­ment. Cuban doctors also run two privatf1 clinics in Luanda. 
Cuban forces fought on the government side after the civil war first erupted in 1975, but withdrew forces in 1988. 
execution last year. 
On Wednesday afternoon, the Vatican's secretary of state, Cardinal Angelo Sodano, met with Carnahan and relayed the pope's plea for Mease. Later, the pope, after a prayer service at a St. Louis church, came down off the altar and personal­ly .asked the governor to "exten mercy" to Mease, Carnahan said. 
Mease was convicted of killing a former drug partner, Lloyd Lawrence, 69; his wife, Frankie Lawrence, 56; and their grand­son, William 
Lawrence, 19, in May 1988. They were shot to death. 
His Jan. 27 execution date was set last November by the state Supreme Court. Four days later, the court changed the execution date to Feb.10. The court didn't give a reason, but many believed it was because the papal visit to St. Louis would coincide with the execu­tion. 
Carnahan announced his decision in Washington, defend­ing it and insisting that it didn't bind him to any course of action in the future. The plea from the pope, under the ancient mosaics and soaring dome of the St. Louis Cathedral Basilica, created "extraordinary circum­stances," he said. 

Sponsored by the Office ofMulticultural Student Affairs 
Now You Can Pick from Five Colors! 

Combining state-of-the-art features 
with simple setup and operation, iMat is an incredible value. It boasts the advanced per­formance of the lightning-fast PowerPC™ G3 processor, high speed ethernet network­ing, a 56K modem, and pre-loaded soft· 11 ware that combine to get you to 
•.•..· the Internet in 10 minutes right ,Y,.. .. ·· out of the box. 
~-And Now, The new iMac has a 
~:, lower price, a 6GB hard drive, a faster processor and five new colors-blueberry, strawberry, tangerine, grape and lime. 
Your special student price: $1,135 
(Add an Imation SuperDisk drive for $150 =$1,285 total) 
Call now for Apple's special ND Student offers! 
OITSolutioosCenter 

Rrn 112 Cornputing/Matl1 Blclg Tiiiiik cJiffere11t. Pi1one: 219-631-7477 (1 for sales) www.apple.com'education/store 
© 1998 Apple Computer; Inc. All rights reserved. Apple and the Apple logo are registered trademarks and iMac is a trademark of Apple Computer; Inc. PowerPC is a trademark of IBM Corp. Purchase from a participating Apple·authorized campus reseller orfrom the Apple Store for Education. 

When: February 3, 1999 Where: CSC Time: 5:30 pm 
Interracial Love ... Dinner and panel discussion Please RSVP@ 1-6841 by February 1 
-------------------------------------------------·---­
Friday, January 29, 1999 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
Seminar addresses fathering in the next millennium 
By BRIAN HOBBINS 
News Wri,cr 
Twcnty-ninl' pPrcent of chil­dr1•11 from divorcnd f'amilics question wlwUrnr llwir l'athors rPally love thmu, said Holrnrt Enrnry. a profossor at tho llnivtH"sily ol' Virg'inia. 
1-'.uwry spoke~ Thursday as part of 1Iw l·atlwring in tlrn N<'W !Vfil!Pnniurn sPminar at till' Cent1ir l'or Continuing Ed1w11tion. 
"1.-athcring and fathering al'Lor divorcn arn important and incrnasiugly rontrov11rsial suhjeds," Emery said. "l•11tlwrs am important t1, chil­drPn in ways w11 often ovN­look. if 11olhing else symholi­
~ally." 
This, combined with the fact that 51 pnrcent of these chil­dren say they would be differ­ent people if they had known their fatlrnrs better, points lo tlw nocd for father-child con­tact even in a µost-clivorce sit­uation, he said. 
Emory pointnd to the eco­nomic situations of divorced f'amilies as further evidence llrnl fatlwrs nncd to continue 
t.o bo involved in tlwir chil­dr(\n's livm; after divorcn. flp statnd that 60 percent of chil­dren in mnther-unly custody livn in povnrty. Thal number is au av11ragti of all fllhnic groups. 
Part of the problem is the 
Att1l~IIDtlJ1®Illl ~ 

lFfilIDifiill(t(t) (CilTIDib OOcemnih>~Ir~ 
Officer Elections 
& 
Boston Trip 

If you did not attend the Jan. 27th meeting and are interesl'ed in: 
Bunning for Finance Club Office, Please cail Nick@ 288-4182 
Signing up for the Boston Trip, Please call Jennifer@ 4-2975 for more information 


current legal sys­tem, Emery added. 
"Many men are disenfranchised by llrn legal sys­tmn by a bias that favors mothers in custody hear­ings," he said. 
Emery advocat· ed the use of mndiation over litigation in cus­tody disp11tl's, cit­ing thal 85 per­cent of tho media­tions were settled out of court. 
The seminar, organized by soci­
o logy professor Joan Aldous and psychology profes­sor E. Mark Cummings, includ-
Welcome to our "new" home: 
Notre Dame Alumni Association and Visitors' Center at the Eck Center 
Eck Center is located south ofthe Morris Inn by the Main Gate Sponsored by tbc Notre Dame Alumni Association and Public Relations and Information Office 
Open House -Campus Wide February 2 -3, 1999 Tuesday -8:00 an1 to 7:00 pm Wednesday -8:00 am to 7:00 pm 
Stop by to meet our_ staff a~d _learn about your Alumni Assoc1at1on. 


Tours, giveaways, prizes, and refreshments! 



Psychology professor E. Mark Cummings (right) helped organize the Fathering in the New Millennium seminar. The seminar, which ran on Thursday in the Center for Continuing Edicuation, included presentations on marriage and fatherhood. 
ed presentations on marriage and fatherhood, as well as identity in residential fathers. Mark Hoche, Arts and Letters Ocan, npened tho seminar with comments on the importance of a stable family environment 
¦ SECURITY BEAT 
Monday, Jan. 18 
12:05 p.m. Security transported a University employee to the University Health Center for treatment of an ill­ness 
2:35 p.m. A St. Edward's Hall resi­dent reported the theft of his bike from the basement of St. Edward's Hall. His bike was locked at the time of the theft. 3 p.m. A University employee was transported by Security to the University Health Center for treatment of an eye injury. 6 p.m. Security transported a Siegfried Hall resident lo St. Joseph Medical Center for treatfnent ofa sports Injury. 

in the development of' morality. in a more involved way," she 
Aldous, in comments during said. Aldous also notBd that th(1 the seminar, said that family is seminar was unique because it one of the most imporlant examined the family lhrough structures in all societies. Thr: the role of fathering. day's seminar aimed to The seminar concluded with "address tho possibility of meu a roundtable discussion on to enlN the world of families family rnsearch at Notre Dame. 
Tuesday, Jan. 19 10 p.m. A Sorin Hall resident report­ed the theft of a CD from the mail room at Sorin Hall. 1 p.m. A St. Edward's Halt resident reported receiving harassing phone calls. 
4:12 p.m. Security apprehended two susPicious males outside of the Snite Museum. They were identified and issued no trespass warning letters. 
8:45 p.m. A visitor reported the theft of her wallet during the basketball game at the Joyce Center, 
Wednesday,Jan.20 
f2 p.rn. An 6/f-campus student reported the theft of a laptop comput­ec from his book bag at the South Dining Hall. His bookbag was left 
unattended at the lime of the theft. 
Friday, Jan. 22 9 p.m. A University Village resident was transported by Security to the University Health Center for treatment of a sports injury. 
Saturday, Jan. 23 
10:15 p.m. A Papa John's driver reported the theft of a sign from his delivery vehicle. 
10:45 p.m. Security cited a Michigan resident for driving while suspended on State Road 933. 
Sunday,Jan.24 
3:15 p.m. Security cited a Farley Hall resident for minor in possession of 
alcohol. 

If you see news happening, call 1-5323 



: 

¦ •Students •Seniors 
Sat-Sun-Mon Matttn11u [BIIAKfTS] : SHE'S All MT(Pll-13) 
· m:to,1:5014:15, e:5o, e:20 : GLORIA [H) : c12:oo, 2:4015:10,1:45, 10:20 . VARSITY BLUES (HI 
; [11:45, 2:15] 5:00, 7:40, 10:05 
• AT RRST SIGIIT (PG·13)[1:20J4:20, 7:10, 9:60 ' VIIIOi (R) [11:50, 2:1014:45, 7:15, 9:40 : THE TlllN RED UNf (II) {1!:1014:00, 8:15 . IN DREAMS (R) 
[12:20, 2:60) 5:20, 7:50, 10:10 : ACIVIL ACTION (PG-13) : 111:00,1:30] 4:30, 7:00, 9:45 : 111Allf8PEAR£ l'I LOVE Ill) 
: [11:lli, 2:0014:60, 7:30, 10:lti . r.lGIITV JOE YOIINC (PG) (1:10)3:60,8:45,8:30 : PATCH ADAMS {PG-13) [1:00]4:06,8:lili, 8:35 ' STEP MOM IPIM3J 11:JliJ 4:40, 7:20, 10:00 : TII FACIITY (RI 
[12:30, 3;00] ti:311, 8:111, 10:26 ' VOll'VE GOT MAl (Pill · [11:30, 2:20) li:15, 8:00,1D:3G : PIIWCE Of EGYPT (PG) . [11:20, 1:46] 4:10, B:40, 8:10 
AIIIIG"S lH (Cl [12:50] 3:45, 8:30 
: [2:30] 5:00, 7:30, 9:45 ' Varsity Blues (A) · , [2:15] 4:45, 7: 1 s, 9:35 
• Gloria (A)L 2:00 4:30, 1:00, 9:30 
:'fr · · · · 
$1 00 All Shows Before 6 pm
NLY
O • Everyone• Everyday $1.50 All Evening Shows :J b. 
Vampires (R) 
[2:10] 4:50, 7:10, 9:30 
I Still Know What You Old Last Summer (RI 
[1:50] 4:Z0,7:00, 8:Z0 Something About Mary (R) [1:40] 4:15, 8:50, 8:20 
Rush Hour (PG-13) 
{2:20] 4:40, 7:20, 8:40 Jerry Springer's Ringmaster lR) {2:30) 5:00,7:30, 9:45 Psycho (Rl 
[2:00) 4:30, 7:15, 9:25 

Now! Students and Seniors s4_00 Anytime 
•' 111e Showplace 16 and Town & Country thHtre• 


VIEWPOINT 
page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. IN 465'>6 (219) 63 l -7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cock, MANAGING EOITOR Bus1NF.SS MANAGER Brian Reinrhaler Kyle Carlin 
AsslSTANT MANAGING EDITOR Heather MacKenzie 
NEWS EDITOR .. ....... Michelle Krupa ADVERTISING MANAGER...... .......Bryan Lu<Z VIEWPOINT EIJIT0R .. .. . .......... Eduardo Llull AD DESIGN MANAGER. . .. Brett l luelat SPORTS EnlTOR .....................Kathleen Lopez SvsnMs MANAGER ........... Michad llrou,Het ScENE EorroRS ............................ Sarah Dylag CONTROi.UR.,,.. , ......., .. , ............,, ..,Dave Rogero 
Krisri Klirsch WEB ADMINISTRATOR .......................Allison Krilla SAINT MARY'S EDITOR ....•..M. Shannon Ryan GRAPlllCS EDITOR ...............................Pete Cildla PHOTO EDITOR ........................ Kevin Dalum 
The Obscr'\·cr is the lndc.:pcmknt m:wspape-r pub!i:Jled by the srndcncs ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac nnd Saim Mary's CoUcge. 1t docs not necessarily reflect rhc policies of tht" adrninismuion of either institution, The news is r-t'portcd as accuratel:r and objtCtJvely a:. possible, Unsigm.-d ediroria1s represt"nt the opiL1ion of the: majority of the 
Editor•in-Chiet: Mc1naging Editor, As.'iiSUnt MJnaging Edicor and dcparcrnem t:diron. Commenrnrics, lerrer.s a.nd columns present the-views of rhl." aurhors, and not necessarily those of The Obscrvc:r, Viewpoint ~pa,;;..: is available to all 
mcmbcr11 of du· Nutrc Dame/Saim Mary's i::ommuniry and ro all rcadt>rs. The frtc expression of varying oplnmns 
through letters is encour.igcd. 
Contacting The Observer Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Assistant ME 631-4541 Advertising 631 "6900/8840 News/Pharo 631-5323 Svsrems 631-8839 Sports 631-4543 F'ax 631-6927 Scene/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail \"iewpoim. l@nd.edu Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Ad E-Mail oli.:,crver@Jarwin.o::,nd.edu Office Manager/General lnfonnacioo 631-7471 News E-Mail obscn,er.obsnews. l@nd.ecf.u 
,--------------.. 
: WOft\AN
•------------.-.-ui 
!.CONm\wroR.,. __.,: 
!I fB\ FILE :l 
1--.. 
-----pr·---.:.--•-1 
..,, ________,
i.,_____~(iN\AC. : 
l\AW Vi'JEU)tt.R:
,_______--------, 
i:--~'i'JOfM.N:c-_ .. , 
;, ©lf~(()\<£,,. ____\, 

11 uwcol-N , f :_~~SY~c:m~ tgom\\g________ "™~___s..,\
~_... _, 

i,-----------~----·•mA~EtOf'F\CT \ 
I l 
¦ RIGHT OR WRONG'? 

Remembering a Notre Dame Man 
Let me tell you about a great, but underappreaciated, Notre Dame man. William Bentley Ball, who died on Jan. 10 at age 82, would be accurately described as the premier constitutional litigator of this century in matters of church and state, But he was more. 
Charles Rice 

A graduate of Western Reserve University, Bill Rall served in combat in the Navy in World War II and retired as a LL Commander in the Naval Reserve. He earned his law degree in 1948 from Notre Dame Law School where he was editor­in-chief of the Law Heview. He practiced corporate law in New York until 1955, when he decided to devote his career to constitutional issues. He then joined the faculty of the new Villanova University School of Law as the professor of constitu­tional law. In 1960, at the invitation of Philadelphia's Archbishop (later Cardinal) John O'Hara, a former president of Notre Dame, Mr. Ball became General Counsel to the Pennsylvania Catholic Conference. In 1968 he formed his own firm in llarrisburg to litigate in defense of reli­gious freedom. 
Mr. Ball's major litigation achievem1mts were in two related areas. First, he suc­cessfully fought for the principle that per­sons ought not to be excluded, on account of their religion, from public benefits gen­erally available to others. For example, Jimmy Zobrest, a deaf high school stu­dent, was denied, because he attended Catholic school, foderal aid for a sign lan­guage interpreter which was supposed to be available for all deaf studenli;. The Supreme Court, in 1993, agreed with Ball and upheld Jimmy's right to have the interpreter with him in the Catholic school. In Zobrest and other cases, Ball vindicated the right of the person to be secure against government discrimination on account of his religious beliefs. 
Mr. Ball's second area oflitigation suc­cess was in his defense. in many cases, of often impoverished Evangelicals and other "little guys" against oppressive state regulations of their schools and families. "He had a passion," said Fr. Richard Neuhaus. "for little people who were being pushed around and trampled upon and treated disdainfully by their pre­sumed betters. He liked ordinary people and he didn't like to see them put upon." 
Mr. Ball was especially effective in curbing the aggressions of public educa­tion bureaucrats. In Wisconsin v. Yoder, in 1972, Ball successfully defended Old Order Amish families against a decree of state bureaucrats that the Amish children must attend high school. The Amish edu­cate their children at home after eighth grade. Ball showed that products of Amish education had a crime-free and welfare-free record. He proved that to require the Amish children to attend high school would destroy the Amish culture and force that Amish community to leave Wisconsin. The case was as basic as it gets, involving the purpose of education, of the family and of life itself. 
"Sometimes," said Ball, "there is intense drama in something very quiet, like a wit­ness' silence in the face of a critically important question. Such a moment came in the Yoder trial when a question from [the state'sI lawver drew silence from [Prof. Hostetler: the Amish parents' expert witness], who Lhen, after perhaps half a minute, gave an answer which touched the very heart of the case: 
Q. The principal purpose to attend high school is to get education, is it not'? 
A. Yes, but I think there is a great deal of difference what education means ­education for what? 
Q. To put it bluntly, education so that the child can make his or her place in the world. [Long pause! 

A It depends which world. 
As defender of "the little guy," Ball 
stood up for the littlest victims, the unborn children whom the Supreme Court defined as nonpersons subject to execution by abortion. "The consequences of that principle," he said, "arc staggering ... if the right to innocent human life is at risk, all lesser rights are at risk. The Rule of Law becomes the Rule of Utility, and we -like all materialist civilizations before us -abandon the glory of our tra­dition and move into the dark night of barbarism." Bill Ball was devoted to Notre Dame -Our Lady as well as the 
University. But he saw the identity crisis that lhe leaders of major Catholic univer­sities have brought on themselves. 
"Presidents of ... prominent Catholic colleges and universities," he wrote, "had come to a consensus that their institu­tions' ·-· Catholicity tainted them with mediocrity. The presidents, at a 1967 conference at Land O'Lakes, Wisconsin, concluded that Catholic higher education must divorce itself from episcopal author­ity. The Pordam sLudy, in the late 1960s, ... supported by the presidents. urged that the colleges take overt steps to rid them­selves of vital aspects of their religious character. The motivation was [that] the presidents' keen desire to belong might be fulfilled: They could now be acceptable to the secular academic community and government grant administrators. Their catalogues, buzzing the words 'excel­lence' and 'relevance', would show just enough of a Catholic face to attract youngsters of Catholic families, but pre­sent a message tn all others that they were, in fact, progressively secular." 
"Onr, sees" in these institutions, Ball said, "a propensity to cry to the world: 'We aro of the mainstream -believe that of us!' The Catholic 'look' [starts] dimin­ishing when one is mainstreaming it with the people who 'count' -the accrediting teams, the staffs of prestige institutions, the mediums ol'thc media." 
The Beltway-type promot(irs looked down on Bill BalL He was politically incorrect and too, well, honest and direct. But, in character as well as in ability, he was a giant among pygmies. 1acknowl­edge my own heavy personal indebted­ness to him, as an exemplar and a coun­selor of wisdom and grace. In a sane soci­ety, Bill Ball would have been on the Supreme Court. He never desired that appointment. But, as Prof. Douglas Kmiec of Notre Dame Law School, had put it: "If the Court is to find its way, it will likely need the luminous mind of William Bentley Ball." The fact that he never became Mr. Justice Ball is the L'.S.'s loss. 
Thf~ second accolade Bill Ball should have received is an honorary degree from Notre Dame, as frequently requested by Law School faculty members. Kings College, an institution of the Congregation of IIoly Cross, had the sense to recognizr, Mr. Ball with a degree on the ground that "You provide a sterling example for our graduates ... and for all of us, showing that it is possible to be at one and the same time a committed Christian and a distinguished professional of great integrity. In the fullest sense of the words, you are truly a Catholic lawyer." The refusal of our leaders to recognize this great man is Notre Dame's loss. 
As Prof. Kmiec accurately predicted, "until God himself directs the verdir.t, this very able and competent legal advisor will continuo to stand upright at counsol in defense of our need, and that of our chil­dren, to rely upon God freely." 
"The death of the just," said St. AJphonsus Ligupri, himself a lawyer, "is a victory." Bill Ball, a man ofjustice, courn­gcously, spok11 the truth to Power. He was, in the ultimate sense, a Notre Dame lawyer. Requiescat in pace. 
Professor Rice is on the Law School Faculty. I/is column appears every other Friday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and nut necessarily 
those o_{The Obser11er. 
¦ DOONESBIJfW 
/.(/t;HA"13SHOIVN Ya/A PR.%­
!aNT/.(/HOIIA5t!R?Nf/0
!IA~ 0951T<lJC1WJl/GllCC, f.</H() 
HAG eerRAY!if? fl!§rAMI/..-Y ANl?fll&OAm0rorr!Cb... 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
,,.A PR£G/aNTtlllfO!illliN 
~INl~A"ll3 eetfAVIOl<.f.<lllHAN/Nl&&V
AT7Ht:!iAM5TIMeH/3 /,(/A5 
TAtK!NG 7lJA ~5­A14f.lON mt;PfKJN/i .1 
¦ O.uon OF THE DAV 

, Awoman who strives to be like a man lacks ambition.' 
-Graffito, New York 
VIEWPOINT 
Friday, January 29, 1999--------------------
-------------------------page 11 
¦ THE COMMON GOOD 
Consumerism Not a Major 
Moral Concern 

In prnvious columns, I have shown how the rnn1-consorv­alivcs n•jnclion of' 1\co11omic rights constitutes cliss1mt from Catholic doctrine and how this rnjcctiun is link1)d lo a set of' otlwr claims that serve as kny coordinates of rrno-conscrv­alivc political 1•conomy. In this column I takc up the view that consumnrism is not a major moral conclH"ll. 
ln Mid1acl Novak's "The Catholic Ethic and the Spirit of' Capitalism," whkh, togntlwr with "Tim Spirit of Dmnocratic Capitalism," is his most important writing, tlwrn is 110 critique of' consumPrisrn, only a chiding or those 
============~==~ "who too glibly
denigrate con­sumerism'" 
(102)

Todd David 
Why not cri­tique con­sumcnsm. We can see

Whitmore . ? 
why ifwc 
return to the 

point of the last column: for Novak, following Adam Smith, tho gap h1\twnen rich and poor is morally insignificant as long as Llw poor ar1) matnrially better off. Capitalism produces mon• overall WPallh than other economic systems to such an i>XlPnt that nwn with a wide rich-poor gap, the poor an\ irni1'1)d matPrially bntlnr off. What hnlps drive the pro­duction of'goods is consumer dPmand. In short, con­surnnrism is thc activity that inspires and enablns busi­rwsses to prod urn more goods and thus wealth. 
W. Michael Cox, Vice President of the Federal Hcserve Bank of Dallas makes such a case for consumerism in a recent column in the New York Times titled, "The Consunwr Will Prnvail" (October 2, 1998). We need not worry about rncent instability in the stock market, he argues, because American consumerism provides a steady sourco of nconomic growth. I le is worth quoting at length: "Americans arn the world's most dedicated consumers. We've been on a buying spree for five decades. We've spnnt on ()Vcrything-clothing, electronic gadgeL<;, travel, entertainment, services of all descriptions. Our houses got bigger and better nquippcd, from 
It is in "Sollicitudo lki Socialis" that .John Paul identilfos consumerism not only as a key component nf the material problem of the rich-poor gap, Lut as a spiritual blight: "[Slide by side with the misf1ries of underclevdopment, themselves unaccoptable, we find ourselves up against a furm of superdevelupment, equally inadmissable, because like the former it is contrary to what is good and true to happiness. This supfmlevelopment. which consists ol' the excessive availability of every kind of material goods for the lrnnelit of certain social groups, easily makes people slaves of'posscssion' and of immndiate gratification, with no other horiznns than the multiplication or continual replacement of the things already owned with others still bPttnr. 
This is tho so-called civilization of 'consumption' orn 'consumerism,' which involve::: so much 'throwing away' and 'waste.' An object already owned but now superseded by something else is discarded, with no thought of its pos­sible lasting value in itself, nor of some other human being who is poorer. All or us experience firsthand the sad elfocts of this blind submission to pure consumerism: in tlrn first place a crass materialism. and at the same time a radical dissatisfaction, because one quickly learns -unless orw is shielded from the·llood of publicity and the cease­less and tempting offers of products -that the more one possesses the more one wants, while deeper aspirations remain unsatisfied and perhaps even stifled" (par. 28). 
On the basis of this spiritual lack, linked to the gap between rich and poor inherent in capitalism, the Pope makes a distinction between "being" and "having." If peo­ple have a sense of value -of "being" -that resists being subsumed under the quest for material possession -"hav­ing" -then there is hope that the gap between rich and poor will lessen. As it is. "there are some people -the few who possess much -who do not really succeed in 'being' because, through a reversal of the hierarchy of values (note: recall, capitalism reverses the correct order of val­ues]. they are hindered by the cult of 'having'; and there are others -the many who have little or nothing -who do not succeed in realizing their basic human vocation because they are deprived of essential goods" (ibid; for the 
issue of consumerism. cf. also "Centesimus 

kitch,m lo garage. Vehicle owner­Annus," 28, 29, 33, 36, and 41). ship per capitajumpnd 83 percent Novak cites John Paul H's primacy of 
'THE NEO-CONSERVATIVE

in the past quarter century. "being" over "having" (203©204), but, does One television used to be enough. DENIAL OF ECONOMIC not link it to the gap between rich and poor. but now three-quarters of the which, again, Novak holds to be morally irrel­
RIGHTS IS OF A PART WITH

households in the United States evant. Thus lacking the Pope's concreteness, have two ur more. Amuricans long THEIR LACK OF ADEQUATE Novak reduces the emphasis on "being" to ago moved beyond the basic needs simply a passing sense of wonder towards 
AWARENESS SO THAT THE 

or food, clothing and shelter. These the goods one has accumulated and gratitude 
WEALTHY ARE IN DEEP

categories today command just 37 for having been able to accumulate them. percent of the household budget MORAL AND SPIRITUAL Careful reading discloses that this empha­
compan1d tu 76 percent in 1901. 
PERIL'

Yet there's always something more 
we want to buy, given the right 
price. 
Indeed, it's the mark ofa wealthy society that consumers keep finding new goods and services to buy. Who can doubt it when we're paying for bottled water, free-range chickens, liposuction. pet orthodontists and psychics ... We're already s(ieing markets emerge for satellite-based navigational devices, computers that listen to us, custom­littml shoes and jeans, and cellular phones that ring any­whert) on Earth. Admittedly, this five-decade buying spree has had a fow lulls, but I'm not worried about one now." 
What does not occur to Cox, and is not adequately addressed by Novak in "The Catholic Ethic," is that this seemingly unending quest for more and more of ever more spi>cialized and rcfinod items and services is a spiritual and morn! maladv. Recall that .John Paul's definition of capitalism -as distinct from tho froe economy-as that form or markPl economy that places material well-being before the whole person and individual self-interest before the common good. A consumer society is that society where the market ethos expands to every area of life, ov11rtaking otlrnr ordflrs or valufl so that thfl only valu11 is mati,rial guin for the self. 
The l'opn describes such a society quite l'orccfully al sev­eral points. In "Hcdemptor llominis," he links consumer society to tho rich-poor gap. which, as we saw in the last wlumn. Novak holds to be "not the moral point." John Paul writi,s, "Indeed everyone is familiar with the picture of the consumer civilization, which consists in a certain surplus of goods necessary for man and for entire societies -and wn are now dealing with the rich highly developed societies -while the rnmaining societies, at least broad sm:tors of them, arc suffering from hunger, with many p,,ople dying each day of starvation and malnutrition. lland in hand go a certain abuse of freedom by one group -an abuse linked precisely with a consumer attitude uncontrollnd by ethics -and a limitation by it of the free­dom of lhn others, that is to say those suffering markrd shortages and being driven to conditions of even worse misery and destitution" (par. 16). 
sis purely on interior affect does have the 
concrete consequence of reinforcing the rich­
poor gap, because the gratitude suggests that there is no problem with possession of large quantities of goods; indeed God created such persons to be wealthy, or "to be where we are." To give priority to "being," accord­ing to Novak, is "to be overcome (momentarily) by wonder. The habit of making such moments more frequent during one's days is a habit important to Catholic life ... The insight into being draws attention to what is truly central in life, uniquely and ultimately important, one's responsi­bility for saying 'yes' to life. TO THE WILL OF GOD WHO CREATED US TO BE WHERE WE ARE and to achieve all that we are capable of ... " (204, emphasis added). 
The issue of economic rights ties into consumerism because by insisting that there are limits to what people can do to others on behalf of profit such rights remind the well-olT that there is an order of values that is not sub­sumed under the market. In sum, economic rights not only serve to protect the poor from the well-off, but, when attended to, to protect the well-off from themselves. The neo-conservative denial of economic rights is of a part with their lack of adequate awareness that the wealthy arc in deep moral and spiritual peril. 
To address this, Catholic social doctrine holds that not only must the Church help the poor become somewhat better off in material goods, it must help the well-off become, in concrete and not just spiritual ways, poorer. This is the topic of my next column. 
Todd David Whitmore is an associate professor in the Department ofTheology. His column appears every other Friday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

¦ LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Viva II Papa! 

~ ij f1 ~ 
~ 
~ 
(/7 • 
(7'~ 
.~~ 
c­
~;:~f 
... 
~ 
c::,., ,, 
~3 
~­
~ 
All I can say is, "WOW!" 
I just returned from St. Louis to sec the Holy Father along with a bunch of seminari­ans, students, and thousands of youth. It was absolutely incredible. 
On Tuesday, the Kiel Center was rocking with excitement. faith and passion. Several Christian groups were there, whipping the crowd into a frenzy, with cardinals, bishops, priests and religious joining in the dancing and singing (even some in the "mosh pit"!) The scene that will forever stick in my mind is watching sisters in habits and bishops in full regalia doing the "wave" for Jesus! 
When the Pope came in, it was chaos. I have never heard people yell like that for anything in my life. Some were crying, some fainting. some just standing there in awe. Then for an hour-and-a-half -and again for 100,000 of us the next day at Mass -he held us all spellbound, giving us the unfiltered gospel, challenging us not to be selective but to embrace it all. 
In a couple of months, we're going to try to do something similar here at ND. No, the Pope won't be coming, unfortunately. The day-long event, called "No Greator Love" on March 20, hopes to rekindle a similar pas­sion for our faith and for Christ, reinforcing the Pope's message to the youth of America. 
Often we only read about controversies in the Church or hear news reports that would have us believe that the Pope and Church are no longer relevant to our lives. The elec­tric appeal of the Pope to America's youth proves otherwise. People are hungry for the gospel. Let us heed the words of our good shepherd and live Christ's message of love and service. 
In the words of the youth this week: "J.P. II, we love you!" By the grace of God, may we have the courage to put his teaching into practice. 
Fr. Bill Wack, CSC Moreau Seminary January 28, 1999 


w E 
ceneN D 
OTHE 

---------------Friday,January 29, 1999
BSERVER 


Scene takes a look at exactly whaa 
By KRISTI KLITSCH and SARAH DYLAG Scene Fditors 
Did you ever wonder what it would be like to play in a campus band? To be up on stage while hundreds of your peers are danc­ing to your music? 
Well for six campus bands, this is an everyday reality. Everyone sees the end product -the music and the performance on stage -but many spectators forget about the hard work, dedication and time that goes into putting the performance together. 
"It's sometimes hard to balance everything," said Josie Vodicka, a singer/guitarist who frequently plays at Acoustic Cafe. "But I always make time for music." 
Vodicka began taking guitar lessons and writing her own songs when she was 16, and she appeared for the first time at Acoustic Cafe this year. 
She plays all originals, and describes her music as "pop-driven folk." In addition to Acoustic Cafe, Vodicka has been seen at Lula's, singing favorites such as "Indiana," "Weather" and "Eloise." 
"The best part of playing is that this [Notre Dame and Saint Mary's] community is the most supportive community that I have ever come across," she said. 
Kara Markovich, a member of the band Hotel Prati, agrees. 

"It's awesome to see people out there listening to your music," she said. "Even your friends, who have heard it hundreds of times, over and over." 
Hotel Prati -singer Kelly Deeney, guitarists Margaret Schugt and Kelly Williams. bongo player Jeff Morgan and Markovich ­all met two years ago when studying in Rome. \\'bile there, the four girls decided to start playing together. 
"We were really just messing around,"Markovich explained. 

Upon their return to South Bend, the four girls recruited Morgan, who they knew played the bongos, to join the band and they dubbed themselves Hotel Prati, after a hotel they had stayed at dtrring a trip in Italy. 
"We play mostly folk music. We're a coffee house-type band," said Markovich. "We play covers like Sinead O'Connor, Fleetwood Mac and the Indigo Girls, but we also play originals." 
Although they have not played together a lot this year, Hotel Prati can occasionally be seen at Acoustic Cafe or at Saint Mary's. And even though they might not get a chance to play together a lot, Markovich still enjoys participating in the group. "I get to express a side of myself that a lot of people don't get to see," she said. 
For other bands, such as the well knovvn Letter 8, forming a band was as simple as looking through the freshman year "dog­book." 
When Katie Ryan, the former female vocalist for the group, wanted to start a band, she wrote to everyone in the "<logbook" who had listed music as one of their hobbies, explained band member Jim Arkedis. 
"She got back five or six responses, plus other people who heard about the band, and eventually there was eight of us," he said. 
The band now has six members, including Arkedis on the drums, Jon Ford on guitar, Darren Coady on trumpet and backup vocals, Aaron Poot on bass guitar, Matt Crane on keyboards and Beth Buckingham as lead vocals. Letter 8 plays a mix of old, and new, popular rock covers, in addition to some originals. 
Arkedis admits that sometimes it is hard for the band to stay focused, in the midst of six very busy lives. 
"It is almost impossible to find a time for everyone to practice," he said. ''Usually we have to set a time for once or twice a week, but sometimes we go two weeks without playing together." 
Letter 8 has played at almost every local bar, including Senior Bar, Coach's, Irish Connection, Finnigin's and Extremz, as well as at some campus events. 
"It's generally not too hard to get gigs,"Arkedis said. "We usual­ly just call up and say when we want to play. The best part is watching people have fun. When they have fun, we have fun." 
"I think that the best part of campus bands is that it brings peo­

also be seen at off-campus shows playing tunes
ple together that didn't know each other before. Plus, it is fun to such as "Science Killed the Storyteller" and "Thebe on stage and act silly," said GeoffRahie, guitarist and singer for Idiot's Dance." 
Who's Yo' Daddy? 
The Butterfly Effect formed in the Spring of 1997,Who's Yo' Daddy formed in the middle of last year, and includes and is composed of bass guitarist Ron Garcia, Doug Ra.hie, Jason Llnster on saxophone and vocals, Pat Emmons on 
McEachern on guitar and vocals and Vinnie
bass and Shawn Ziegler on drums. Rahie describes their music as Carrasco on drums.
"rock with a combination of a jazzy and funky foel." 
"Our music is a mix of pop iniluenced with punkThe band plays mostly originals and has been seen at last ye~•s as well," Garcia said. 
NAZZ festival, outdoor concerts at Stonehendge and lnsh 
Although the group enjoys playing together,Connection. 
Garcia explained the struggle of finding a timeThe Florida Evans Show Band and Revue, singers and guitarists when everyone is free to practice.
Matt Curreri and Dan O'Brien and drummer Doug McEachern, But when they finally start playing. much like any has also been seen at NAZZ and lrish Connection. 
of the other campus bands, they expect you to be"Dan and I got together at the end of sophomore year for on the dance Uoor.
NAZZ," explained Curreri, who is now a senior. "We actually got 



TI-IE

OCHA OVEllVIEW SPOTLIGHT
CLASH

PAGE2 PAGE4 
PAGEJ 

-----· -----------.
-~ 

page 2 The Observer• IRISH INSIDER Friday, January 30, 1999 
THIS WEEKEND'S CONTEST FEATURES THE TOP TALENT IN THE 
WHERE THEY STAND CCHA 
1999 MICHIGAN SCHEDULE 
Current Record 17-5-3 
RemmniningSmetUe 

29 at Michigan Stole 30 at Noire Dame 
5 lake Superior St. 

6 Ohio St. 13 at Wesiem Michigan 19 at Western Michigan 20 at Michigan Sto1e 26 Miami (Ohio} 27 Miami (Ohio) 
·arch 5 at Lake Superior St. 6 at Northern Michigan 

Squads' leaders among CCHA's best 
1. North Dakota (29) 
2. 
Maine 

3. 
Michigan St. (l) 

4. 
New Hampshire 


5. Michigan 
6. 
Colorado College 

7. 
Boston College 

8. 
Rensselaer 


9. Princeton 
10. Notre Dame 

299 253 236 
229 
176 
14 1 106 76 68 
44 

By TED BASSANI 
Sports Writer 
The turnaround of Notre Dame's hockey program has been fast and furi­ous. 
Nowhere is this more evident than in the leaderboards of the CCHA's most vital statistics, where Notre Dame names abound. One of the most impor­tant group of offensive statistics in hockey is a team's production on the power play. 
The Irish have made the most of their power play opportunities to this point, leading the league in power play per­centage since the early part of the sea­son (23.8 percent). The team's top scor­ing line of Ben Simon, Aniket Dhadphale and Brian Urick has also carried the load on the power play, with more than half of the team's power play goals between them. 
Entering this season, one big question mark for the team was how well Forrest Karr would handle his first year as a starter, replacing four-year starter Matt Eisler in goal. Karr has had a splendid season so far, and has been a major rea­son for the team's success. Currently, Karr is one of only six CCHA goal­tenders with a goals-against-average under three. 
Given that he entered the season never having been a starting goal­tender, it is interesting to point out that Forrest Karr has started all 24 games for Notre Dame this season. No other goaltender in the CCIIA has started all of his team's games, but Michigan's Josh Blackburn is the only other goal­tender that has started in all of his team's conference games. 
As a team. Michigan had much the same dilemma as the Irish did in goal. 
Three major contributors from last year's national championship team were missing this season following graduation last spring: team captain Matt Herr. leading scorer Bill Muckalt, and four-year starting goaltender Marty Turco, the NCAA's all-time wins leader. 
Right wing Dale Rominski is one cur­rent senior that has stepped up to fill the leadership void for the Wolverines. Coming into this season, Rominski had gone his entire three-year career, a span of 109 consecutive games, without scoring a game-winning goal. As of this weekend, Rominski is tied for the CCHA lead, as well as the national lead, with five game-winners. 
Senior defenseman Bubb a Berenzweig has proven worthy of his new title as captain, while two newcom­ers have picked up the slack left by the losses of Muckalt and Turco. Freshman center Mike Comrie has played in all of Michigan's 25 games this season and is the team's leading point scorer so far with 26. He happens to lead the team both in goals and in assists. with 13 of each, in addition to being the Wolverines' best faceoff man. 
Freshman goaltender Josh Blackburn has picked up right where Turco left off, with 17 wins and a goals-against-aver­age below two. 
Early in the season, however, there was some doubt as to whether Blackburn could handle the starting job when he was torched by Northern Michigan in a 6-1 home defeat. Since then, the freshman has been steady, and has actually shown himself to be quite . ashy between the pipes. Certainly, Josh Blackburn will be the key to a brighter future for the most successful hockey program of the 1990's. 


C C H A 
SCORING LEADERS 
GP G A PTS Hugo Bolsvert·OSU 27 1 7 20 37 
Don Price-BGSU Mike York-MSU Adam Edinger·BGSU 
Ben Simon-ND 
Brian Urick-ND 

Buddy Srnith·NMU 
J.P. Vigler-NMU 

Mike Comrie-UM 
Chris Richards·OSU Shawn Horcuff·MSU Roger Trudeau·NMU Ryan Murphy-BGSU Jason Deskins-MIA Bryan Adams·MSU 
Aniket Dhadphale-ND 
Mark Shooawylo·MIA Mike Jones·BGSU Rustyn Dolyny·MSU Josh Langfeld-UM 
Mark Kosick-UM 


Team 
1. Michigan St. 
2. Michigan 
3. Ohio State 
4. Notre Dame 

5. 
Ferris St. 


6. 
Northern Michigan 

7. 
Bowling Green 

8. 
Miami (Ohio) 


9. 
Alaska Fairbanks Western Michigan Lake Superior St. 


25  l 3  22  35  
27  16  1 9  35  
25  1 5  1 9  34  
23  1 2  20  32  
22  1 3  18  31  
26  5  25  30  
26  17  l 0  27  
25  1 3  13  26  
27  6  20  26  
23  1 1  1 4  25  
26  1 3  1 1  24  
2 l  6  1 7  23  
26  13  1 0  23  
27  1 5  8  23  
20  13  9  22  
22  1 0  12  22  
25  5  1 7  22  
26  1 1  1 l  22  
24  1 1  9  20  
25  7  1 3  20  
~  

Record  Pts.  GF  GA  
14·2·4  32  66  25  
14-3-2  30  58  37  
11-6-3  25  55  43  
11-6-2  24  69  43  
10-7-3  23  57  42  
l 0-8-2  22  64  57  
7-9-3  1 7  62  75  
4-13·3  1 1  48  69  
5-15·0  10  47  83  
2-11·6  1 0  40  77  
4-12-2  1 0  42  57  

Friday, J:rnuary 30, 1998 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER page 3 
NO. S MICH !GAN VERSUS
SATURDAY'S CLASH 
NO. 10 NOTRE DAME 


Vs 
WHEN: SATURDAY AT 7 P.M. WHERE: JOYCE CENTER FIELDHOUSE RADIO: 103.1 FM WHME TELEVISION: CH. 46 WHME 
SEASON SERI ES: NOV. 14: NOTRE DAME 2, MICHIGAN 2 AT JOYCE CENTER NOV. 21: MICHIGAN 1, NOTRE DAME 0 AT YOST ICE ARENA 
RECORDS: NOTRE DAME AT HOME: 8-0-1 MICHIGAN ON THE ROAD: 6-3-3 


goal with a dean faceoff win in the offensive zone. As Comrie battles with Notre Dame's 
The Observer/Jeff Hsu
Ben Simon on the draw on 

Junior John Dwyer scored a goal in Notre Dame's 4-2 win over
Saturday, the results may prove 

Michigan in game one of last year's best-of-three playoff series. 
vital for the offensive flow each 
team is able to find. 
For Irish defenseman Benoit Cotnoir, in addition to great team speed, the biggest challenge the Wolverines present is their depth. 
"They use the whole rink, they have a lot of speed," Cotnoir said. "Michigan is a solid team all around. /\II of their lines can score and all of their lines have some firepower." 
In the last two years, the games between Michigan and Notre Dame have been so evenly contested that their rivalry has grown to be one of the biggest in the CCHA. In their last seven games against Michigan, the Irish hu.ve one win, one tie, and five one­goal losses. Four of those losses came at Yost Ice Arena in Ann Arbor, including two in last year's first round playoff series loss to Michigan. 
Irish head coach Dave Poulin summed up just how evenly matched these two teams are right now. 
''This series is where it has to be, which is in the upper echelon [of college hockey!," Poulin said. "If you look at the last seven times we've played {Michigan), they've scored three more goals than we have. It's extremely competitive." 
In the two games this season, Michigan has a tie and a 1-0 win in Ann Arbor to its credit. The first game took place at the Joyce Center Nov. 14. The game was played evenly at even strength, with Notre Dame 
.. 

freshman David Inman scoring the only live-on-live goal of the contest in the first period. The deciding factor was the special teams. or more specifically, Michigan's special teams. In addition to scoring two power play goals, the penalty-killing unit managed to kill off a five-minute major penalty in the third period to send the game into overtime. 
Notre Dame's special teams also made their pres­ence felt, as Ben Simon tied the game with a rebound goal on the power play in the opening minute of the third period. 
One hero for the Wolverines was freshman goal­tending sensation Josh Blackburn, who made 34 saves as the Irish out.shot Michigan 3(}-22. In the game, Blackburn was good, but he was lucky as Wflll. In the overtime session, a shot by David Inman hit off his shoulder, then off of the post to keep the game tied at two. 
The other game this season was playp,d at Yost Arena exactly one week after the first game. The Irish came in without scoring forwards Anlkot Dhadphalo and Joe Dusbabek, and it showed. Offense was scarce for both teams, as neither toam 's forwards found much room in the neutral zone. But Michigu.n senior Sean Ritchlin notched the game's only goal on a freak­ish play in front of the net, as the puck caromed off of his leg and past Forrest Karr. 
In the game, neither team managed a power play goal, but Dhadphale said special teams should be the deciding factor on Saturday. 
"I think it's going to come down to special teams," Dhadphale said. "We're pretty even five-on-five, so it will come down to the power play and penalty kill." 
.... 
... 

page 4 The Observer• IRISH INSIDER Friday, January 30, 1999 
DETERMINED TO DOMINATE 
JUNIOR BEN SIMON IS POISED TO BE A FINALIST FOR HOBEY BAKER 
By TED BASSANI 
Sports Writer 
Given his development as a player before this season, people around the college hockey world speculated that this might be junior center Ben Simon's breakout year. 
This was to be the year in which he would prove himself worthy of the nation's highest award, the Hobey Baker Memorial Trophy. The top 10 players in college hockey each year qualify as finalists for the award, and with the season Simon is having, some are predicting he could be a finalist by season's end. If the junior earns the nomination, he will be just the second

... 
player in Notre Dame history to do so, joining current Irish head coach Dave Poulin, who was a finalist for the award in 1982, 
Simon enjoyed a brilliant three-year career at Shaker Heights High School, in suburban Cleveland. During his senior year of high school, Simon played for the Cleveland Junior Barons of the North American Hockey League. In that one season, he finished third in league scoring by amassing 91 points .in only 50 games, numbers which earned him all-league honors as well as the league's rookie of the year award. 
The adjustment from junior hockey to college hockey entails more than just playing against bigger, more physical competition. Simon, like many high school and junior hockey stars, could dominate the game by himself without ever having to learn the team game. In college, however, he could no longer put on a one-man show. 
"I came from Cleveland, Ohio, which is not exactly a hotbed for hockey," Simon said. "There wasn't really a team aspect to the game there. Here, I've learned how to move the puck quicker, pass, and use my teammates." 
"When he came in as a freshman, he was used to playing junior hockey," Notre Dame team captain Brian Urick said. "He's learned over the vears to be a playmaker, and that shows with how many assists he gets." 
As a freshman in the CCHA, Simon brought an aggressive, physical game to the table even though he only stood at six feet and weighed _just 170 pounds. Some might say he "played bigger than he was" in his freshman year, as he showed the kind of versatility needed to domi­nate at the college level. In addition to giving the team a strong physical presence. he also had an eight game point scoring streak, notching three goals and nine assists during that stretch. 
Following Simon's promis­ing freshman season, the hockey world outside of the CCHA started to take notice. In December 1996, he and teammate Joe Dusbabek were selected to represent the United States in the world junior tournament in Switzerland, the first of two times that Simon would be selected to the team. The most important lesson learned in his two stints overseas, said Simon, was to be able to adapt his game to the needs of his new team. 
"You go over there and you play with all the top players, and your role suddenly changes," Simon said. "All of a sudden, you turn from a first or second line player here at school to a third or fourth line checking left wing for USA. You just fill the role they want you to play." 
Following his first year at Notre Dame and his experi­ence with Team USA, the 
Chicago Blackhawks selected Simon in the fifth round of the 1997 NHL draft. Simon 
was the 
highest pick among four current Notre Dame players who were drafted that same year (Joe Dusbabek, Jay Kopischke and Ryan Clark). 
Simon's emergence as a player con­tinued into his sophomore season. He tallied points in each of his first seven games. In terms of his development, however, what was most noteworthy about his sophomore season was how he managed to raise the level of his 



The Obseiver/Joe Stark 
As a sophomore, Ben Simon was one of three Irish players with three shorthanded goals. 
play on defense. In that season, Simon's resume as a player now included star penalty-killer, playmaker and aggressive forechecker. In fact, he scored three shorthanded goals last season, sharing the team lead in that category with Dan Carlson and Benoit Cotnoir. 
By the end of his sophomore season, Simon would lead the Irish in points with 3 7, consisting of nine goals and 28 assists. The only aspect of his game 
that had yet to  flourish  was  his goal  
scoring ability,  which  was  soon  to  
come.  

But to understand Ben Simon as a player, one must first understand him as . a person. From his first days on campus with his Notre Dame team­mates, Simon has earned and main­tained the reputation as the team's res­ident jokester. 
"He's the instigator of all the practi­cal jokes that go on amongst the play­ers," Brian Urick said. 
Some of Simon's recent capers include writing on a teammate's mouthpiece and wrapping another teammate's wallet in clear tape, which, said Urick, is Simon's weapon of choice. "He's always putting clear tape on people's skate blades, so when they go out on the ice, they'll fall down." 
In fact, Ben himself admitted to being a "goofball." But, said head coach Dave Poulin, such an image only adds to his on-ice presence: "It's part of his cre­ative nature, part of his outgoing nature on the ice." 
Through the team's first 24 games this season, Simon already has 32 points, which currently leads his team and has him fifth in the CCHA. Also, his goal scoring has improved tremendous­ly, as he already has 12 goals to his credit, with five of them coming on the power play. In the eyes of scouts, this is the breakout year that they were all expecting. 
The only challenge that remains for Simon at the college level is to become his team's overall leader. According to Urick, that has started to happen as well. 
"I see Ben as being a vocal leader in the locker room," Urick commented. "Also, I see him as a leader out on the ice. On the ice, he's always giving it his all; he gets guys fired up with a big hit or a big goal." 
However, in order to make the huge jump from college hockey to the NHL, Simon acknowledges that his game will have to improve even further if he is to take that step. 
"I have to get bigger and stronger physically and get tougher mentally [in order to play in the NHLJ," he said. 
When viewing Simon's overall game from afar, one can see interesting par­allels between his game and the game of one of his playing heroes. 
With much of his family being from New England, Simon grew up a fan of the Boston Bruins, and more specifical­ly, of right wing Cam Neely. Neely was a player of immense offensive talent and creativity who quickly became known in the NHL for his bruising, physical style of play. 
"I always liked Cam Neely, and that's why I chose number eight," Simon said. 
"I like  his  style  of play.  He's  a  big,  
tough  guy  who can  score  goals  and  
make key plays."  

Following Neely's lead, Ben Simon's game in the NHL may someday make Blackhawks fans love the present and make Bruins fans weep for the past. 
EDITOR: KATHLEEN LOPEZ
IRISH 

STAFF WRITER: TED BASSANI
INSIDER 
PHOTOGRAPHY: JEFF HSU & LIZ LANG 
GRAPHICS: PETE CI LELLA
STAFF 
The Obseiver/JeJf Hsu 
Junior Ben Simon is one of six current Irish players drafted by NHL teams. 

w E 
ceneN D 
Friday, January 29, 1999-,...'-------------------OTHE
BSERVER 



goes into forming a campus band 

About the bands 
Jos1E Yon1cKA 
A FIRST YEAR GRADUTATE STUnENT STUDYING CREATIVE WRITING. SHE CAN IIE SEEN l'LAYIN<i SONGS SlJCII AS "ELOISE" AND "WEATHER" AT ACOUSTIC CAFE. 
LETTER 8 
FOR"vlED LAST YEAR A'S;!) JS "10\V A CAI\IPllS FAVORITE. MEMBERS: ]1;.1 ARKEDIS, DRUMS JON Fo1m, Gl'ITAR DARREN COAD\', VOCALS AND T1<t;l\11'ET AARON POCH, BASS Gtll'f'AR MATT CRANE, KEYHOARDS BETII BUCKINGIIAM, SINGER 
THE BUTTERFLY EFFECT 
FORMED IN THE SPR!NG OF 1997. CAN llE FOUND PLAYINO AT A VARIETY OF OFF-CAMPUS LOCATIONS. MEMIIERS: RON GARCIA, BASS Gllf'fAR Dou; McEACI IER"J, GurrAR AND VocALs Vl!\NIE CARRASCO, DRIIMS 
W• -----­

page 14 The Observer• SPORTS Friday, January 29, 1999 
¦ NBA 

Reinsdorf explains the dismantling of a dynasty 
Associated Pres. 
CIIICAGO 
Bulls chairman Jerry Reinsdorf says he did not want to see Michael .Jordan retire and the rest of the team split up any more than Chicago fans did. 
But if it had to happen ­and it did -he wanted them to leave as winners. 
"As a fan. you really have to like that Michael retired as the equivalent of the unde­foated heavyweight champion of the world," Reinsdorf' told the Chicago Tribune on Thursday. 
"By retiring. the legend grows and grows, and people will say we could have won nine, 10 championships in a row if he'd stayed," Reinsdorf said. 
"And the fact is we wouldn't have. The dynasty would have ended someday with some­body defeating us. Now we can say the dynasty ended because we were done." 
Jordan's retirement was the key to whether the Bulls stayed together or broke up. [f he decided to play for another year, Reinsdorf said he would have been willing to give Scottie Pippen, Dennis Rodman and Luc Longley large one-year contracts so 
they could try for  a  seventh  
championship.  
But  without  Jordan,  

Heinsdorf said it didn't make sense to sign the aging veter­ans to long-term contracts when it would only have delayed the inevitable rebuild­ing effort. 
"I don't think anvone thinks this team could have won for more than one more year," Reinsdorf said. "I don't know that it could have won another year, though Michael thought so. But that would have been the limil." 
The Bulls reached sign-and­trad e deals for Pippen (Houston}, Longley (Phoenix) and Steve Kerr (San Antonio!. By gutting the team, the Bulls will have about $20 million in salary cap room this summer to make a run a1 one or two big-name free agents. Chicago also got additional draft picks in 2000 and 2001 in the sign­and-trade deals. 
With only five players back from last year's playoff roster, Reinsdorf acknowledges the Bulls probably won't make the playoffs this year. But by restocking through free agency and youth, he hopes Chicago can be back in the Eastern Conference Finals within two to three years. 
"Ideally, we'll get two quali­ty free agents and a high first­round draft choice, and the following summers we'll use the draft choices we accumu­lated and maybe bring in some players from Europe we have the rights to," he said. "We feel this (next) team will be built around depth and versatility, and hopefully three quality first-line play­ers." 


The Observer acceprs classifieds evei:y business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds muse be prepaid. 
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, iocluding all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
2565 asap. 1 Ml. FROM CAMPUS.APPL!• ANCES, W/D. 273-8332 
NOTICES 
Needed Immediately: Spring Break Bahamas Party Wheelchair bound woman needs FOR SALE Cruise!5Nights $279!1ncludes assistance with housework, yard-Meals 8 Free Parties/Awesome work, and errands. 4-8 hours each Beaches.Nightlife!Departs From weekend @ $?/hour. Call 616-663-For sale: Digitech RP-20 Florida!Cancun &Jamaica $399' 2573 or 219-273-7045 to apply. guitar floor pre-amp/effects proces­springbreaktravel.com Ask for Linda. sor. Ex. condition, only 1 year old. 1 -800-678-6386 $350 o.b.o. Call Brendan at 287­
Need child care for my 8 year old 9910. Spring Break Panama City daughter 4PM-5:30PM Monday thru $129!Boardwafk Room w/Kitchen Thursday.Good pay.Need car.Calf NEW Rates Phone Cards Next To Clubs!7 Parties-Free Lisa 277-8564 after 6PM. 282 min.$20 call 258-4805 Drinks!Daytona $149!South Beach $129!Cocoa Beach $149! VOLUNTEERS NEEDED 89 Ford Probe GT (made by springbreaktravel.com The Early Childhood Development Mazda) $1600. call 634 4303. 1-800-678-6386 Center.located at Saint Mary's 
College and the University of Notre Two autistic children need students Dame.is looking for volunteers who to work with them doing behavioral enjoy young children.If you would TICKETS therapy. Training provided. Call be interested in spending 2 hours a Pam @ 273-2761. week reading children's BOB DYLAN 1st. 5 ROWS 
books,building with blocks.and WWF. RINGSIDE 1st. 10 rows singing songs with children.please 272-7233.
ILOST & FOUND I 
call Cindy Hestad at 284-4693 
··~cDE-SMC) or Thayer Kramer at LOST: 631-3344 gold tennis bracelet, please call (ECDC-ND).Please join our fun 

...,, Ana Sosa @634-2819 filled days. 
I 
PERSONAL WANTED II FOR RENT 
WHY DO BAD THINGS HAPPEN 
I
TO GOOD PEOPLE? SALES & MARKETING HOUSE FOR RENT. 
INTERNSHIPS TWO BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. NO BIG TEN (yes we already that it University Directories offers 4-5 BR Available June for is a loregone conclusion, but it paid,full•time summer sales and Summer, August for Fall. STINKS TO HIGH HEAVEN) marketing internships.open to all Dishwasher, Washer/Dryer, F4l1 disciplines.College credit avail-Basement, Large Backyard and 011 Ice, ice baby! able.Training program.Great Street Parking. MONITORED resume booster! 1 (800)743-5556 or SECURITY SYSTEM INCLUDED. PO-sine wave. www.universitydirectories.com CAIi 289-4712. 
WALK TO SCHOOL HEY SARAH! Eat it! I am the IM Piano Trumpet Sax Guitar &Bass 2-6BEDROOM king!! 
Peter Frasso! He shoots and scores! 
Buy Sam a drink and get his dog one too. 
Ouiggs, you are A vultue. I am The Vulture. Don't forget that or The Vulture may have to strike with his patented Vulture-claw attack swoop 
Katie -are you really going to dye my hair? 
Amy, when you marry Bri, will you invite me to the wedding? 
Big Ten Basketball,-mediocity at its lines!. ACC is where it is at. 
AW stop stalking people 
Chuk, do you know where Grace 340 is? 
Or maybe it was Grace 314. 
Ladies, this is Tate. Tate is a good, hard working guy. He drives a trac­tor. He led his team to the State Championship. Have you seen Hoosiers? Tate is Mr. Hoosiers. 
Noah doesn't think that I can fill the Classifieds. I know that Jcan. 
Noah likes 90210 WAY too much 
Players for Shenanigans Band-for STARTING $185 3 big shows and optional spring MONTH/PERSON Givas, Tom was right I do know break tour. 232-2595 Did you know that U2 wrote a song
stuff. Stuff is wtiat I know. I am the Call Meg at 4-2573. stuff guy. about Matin Luther King Jr.? 

I know that I am If Dean Smith was such a great 
basketball coach, why did he only Did you know that dogs and bees win two national titles? can smell fear? 
And why did both those titles rely Did you know that the Star Wars on stupid mistakes in the closing Episode One is a mere 113 days seconds by his opponent? away? 
Chris Webber says give me a TO! Did you know that the Doritos chick is going to have another Superbowl Dickie V says, but Chris, baby, you halftime commercial? don't have any TOs! You blew it! 
You need a PTPer in the closing Did you know that the Steelers are seconds. the only team to win four Superbowls in the same decade? Duke-Maryland 
He beat him like a rented mule. February 3 
Jaromir Jagr is really good at hock- No. 2 vs No. 4  
ey  
You gotta love ACC basketball  
DANIMAL!  
DANIMAL!  
El Hosero, will you be making some  
of you secret salsa for the  Good luck in Spain  

Superbowl? the lazy dog 
The rain in spain falls mainly on the  
Jamal Anderson cannot be stopped  plains.  
Neither can Terrel Davis  The quick brown lox jumped over  

Chris Crane, Its too bad that I had to whip you in pool yesterday. My Very Excellent Mother Just Maybe we should rematch some Served Us Nice Pasta time 
Save Pluto  
This is a test to see if Mary Zakas  
reads the Classifieds.  Save Ferris  

ADOPT:Help us make our family complete.Let us give your newborn  '99-'00 LOADED!6 Bedrm. $800 mo. 273-0482/234-3831  Why can I never think of a creative classified for Missy?  Well they did.  If anyone is still reading this they should stop cause there is nothing  You mean Highland isn't your last name?  
a loving,happy home and a wonder- mildly amusing in the rest of these  
ful future.Expenses paid.Please call Lucille and Michael 1-800-468­9311.  5 or 6 Bed Rm Furnished House 333 N. HIii St. Sec Syst, Wash/Dry 233-9947  A certain person living in certain dam will not receive a classified this week due to a certain completely false rumor that is being spread  See you learn something new every time you read the Observer Classifieds.  classifieds If the Big 1 Ois so smart, how did  What is your last name Dave? 36-20  
Looking for a Female Student  BED 'N BREAKFAST  about me.  Juwan "the rapist" Howard get a  
to ass,st the Clay High School Girl's Track Team. daily M-F, 3'.00p.m.-5:30p.m. Please  REGISTRY 219-291-7153  Heather Mac is everyone's favorite tyrannical editor.  Is everyone looking forward to etas-sic ND Big 10 football match-ups  degree?  VULTUREII  
contact Head Coach Hamilton  3 BDRM, DUPLEX, REMODELED,  against Minnesota?  Hi CScott  This is the last one!  
at 271-1345, or 235-5858ex!.  501EDDY ST.  


page 16 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, January 29, 1999 
THE FOLLOWING IS A LIST OF ALL FIRST ROUND GAMES 
Late 
Friday, .J amrnry 29 
FOR ALL LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS TEAMS. 
7 :00 PM -4.00 AM
Night 

TIMES FOR FURTHER GAl\tlES \-VILLBE DETEAA1INED Joyce Center & RSRC 
631-6100

Olyjt AT THE END OJ., THE FIRST ROUND. All LNO Medals Were Donated by the Notre Dame Alumni Association 
t1ll T-Shirls Were DonaJed by ([:~ 
Be a Real Champion -Support Special Olympics!!! -$1.00 Donation Requested at the Door 
~tr 

Zahm/ Lewis Pangborn / Fisher / LeMans 
'hllftt,I r..,. A uo M,11, ~b,JI tAll.1-6100 \lolh¥>,U TuamA uo !11!11'11\aaJ,iimll 001-6100 TeOIIB l:OC w,,,,m·,-.n.iil CIIJ. 1-6100 1-8 ):lg w,,...·,~11 CN.J.l-li10li 1,1.,·' s..i,lhall Tum A l:1$, M111;Jlmo"""° a,in ,,_.,, ' 8.,,uii,,n 'k>~m A 1:-:n """1'1 &oo"""H 9,na r.... R MA w.,,.,·, 1....,1i,11 R'.JO 1iti11R t:JD WfillM 1l Rti;ntihai! i:00 W...o,'1Btlirt1bol 1.... , rn Kdiall 1~00 w.-,·, Ba,l»lba! !NmA l.~O Kub.a lumA lt40 !"'1111 B NA 1eam8 NA ~"-• le•nA 1aon Wifloball 1..., A 1:00 N..t foolhaR laid i:lC Wilillilll 1-.1. 1:00 1.... a tlD 1.... a IA loam& 145 lamB 11:UO "'9'I Goll I-A 9:00 lead 1:30
l:1i .,.... Doli)ooai !a,v,,tGc,11 l:lC ma HO Mlil, s.a.r 1,..,A 11:00 r...a t,15 Moo -~I SllCUI' lN~A 1:30 \tluma,'rl«a, leam A LJ9 i.a..e NA Wolloo'1!«!llf ToamA 100 leom B NA T.ami tei il~Wal•l'oil !,ad 9:00 Team 8 11:30 hlMlliloWat•l'ull ki#A 12:00 ~ 1.1:00 ~llj 11:00 lea•B liA ..... e lalll,lsmis CAl.l 1-6100 Milt't!iadftilloo CAl.ll-6100 llilltl,ma f.AU 1-6100 11..•,i!arion,."'1 r..1111-lilDU w.-·, RMillflhl r.A111.,1nnn w,lltM·~ Rwinlm uu1./!1nn 
Dillon / Welsh Family Howard/ 
l&d 7:00 1.1,n· t 11.qMW Team A CAll 1-6ICAJ ~· ..... 8 S:30 w.-·,~· ~· Jea,,B 
NA 
U..'t.tbmittal r...t 11-1; M«i'1ilt....,.I 1,1.,·,a..ulllall Mn i.a.R HS Woa,,,'1inollbal 1-nn w....·, a..on.11 TsnlA 1:45 ki:lhal w....,,·,~1 lo>•A 1:10 
i...ie 8:00 l;wflu,ll,all immA 2:80 Willk<i,l !M'Hllllh,,i r...,A i:30 1-B 8:00 1..... 8 11:15 l•!fllfiltt mA NA Team~ l!r9'1GJII 9:10 Jo,o& u M«i't~ 1-A 91.iO w..,.·, l-1 leamA rn \1/omeii's Sotttr Im8 NA load HA l••d l:!t llr•iwi NA k"fl'iiYJ NA
i.,,, 8 

Mlnis.i.iill>l NA Mli1Hmitu, CAU 1-611!11 Won.,,, Bad•it!Jrl t.1111-lilOC Wot>eni e..i~.,.. 

St Ed's / Farley 
lllle;\IU lwlA &:30 11:40 !w,8 7:1)0 


NMNlOlbali foi<IIA ltl! 
~ 1-8 11:i.\
Mon'1llall.t!lhal lead 1:00 12:0& Tqi6'11 t,. O
i....s rn 12:30 'M,• .,·,e..1t11111 Jud l:ll 9:00 
lilllOI A 1~30 

l\i;:11111,·,"""" r..., e NA
.,..,9 L111 12:30 
r.... s 

Knott/ P Carroll / Badin 
1-A 1:38 lblt!bal Ttad m MW11llaaJ,olhall u 
~-
laad l:JII IIA W.-'sllacq,ettiai kA Men'18olhll1al IMA 9:fl Mtn'1 llasl,ll>l& -·1-J.8 t.15 M,,i's&uollbal l:DD JMB 1:15 ... e t:1S W-.'1Br!lllllball 1:00 WoN's llasblb.i HIIIIA 1:16 \\ll!Ho't Ralbihll ltaA NA Kai..11 lw•A 1:00 !NIil NA TellnrB NA 
lil'IN:lllClllil 10:~ NsifmaM Tad l:15 Wdtlllbail 1'a11A 1:30 !mi l:lt lead ID:15 ...a ij,\ lirp(Golt 1-A l:08 la,yo1r..ll 1'11.A 1:15 1-fladgoilal 11·00 lead 1:45 1-8 MA Men's Sim! lwd 1:00 w...·,s-la A 11:lll YnllenHota1 ...... 9:0t Jud NA i..a t.lt i..e NA buwlwt Watsr l'o~ mA NA 
r....• 
..,.,. 

1:41 11:H loo8 NA Mln'sa.illln CAUl-6100 CAUl-lilDO lall,Tumil t:All 1-81911 w....·, S.."'111 CAUHlOG CN.ll-6100 
Cavanaugh / Keough / tr Walsh/ Sorin 
Mon's l!aap,l!iall CN.l 1-&tno load 7:30 w-·,r..c.,,,111,u CAi.11-lilOtl ~· r..MS 8:30 M.,'sihefflb,11 9:00 
1110ft lllll:atil,U Jud l:ti 
Ill! 

U:15 Wu'""'' &oomball
i...e 
Kdbal r... A 1:r.oa 
\\inl'1 llatbd,,U Tm!A t45 Joa.a 1:15 
WfllobaP r ... i. 9:15 
lloril'oolhtl mnn !Mff\ah,1 

l!l,11118 NA loa¦ B 12:lS 
9:00

-· i... ~ 
~~ Ind 1:1D T&mllol.ljall 
""1'1 Sowl J.,.d IC:CC
lwl8 9:)0 fw,fs~ lffl!A 

l\\mlon1S"""1 r ... A r....e 8:JO 
l\\JNt'I Soccs liPA Ul:UD Taal 

T.amB ffilltlll!Wll•fluk, 1-A ann 
loa.S NA lffliA 

llrani r..,,, B NA 
11:20 mB 

"-1'1 Badni,ioo CAU.1-6100 laidiloinis &All t-6lllll 
IIWliiiallUI
~*" CAf.l!,jJlllf CAU.1-611111 

Wu'""'' 8ad1i1lm CAlll-0100 
WM_,lBad•~loo l'.Al.11-8100 

Stanford/ Pasquerilla West/ McCandless 
CN.J.Hi!OII ~H "'• loaoA 9:10 M11,·1~lllilil W l-61illl NA ..~e 1:08 'M)m,r.'1Hi<:1'1flbil CAl.l 1-6l11t 
Mon'18atiJlh,j\ 12:lO MWl's Baw!tbai load 9:00 111111·,in•~llil i:110 l:JG load W..11f18111011boil i:00 Wtll•i'11last81ba11 ltll w......,~ load -~NA kidNI litu1A 1-,0 
louR NA 
1Mrff"11bif tJO N,dfml!r.1 ..... 10:ll \llilw..l! """1A t15 
H:ll loaa& ltlt mB NA ~Gall i:50 l•g,tQ,lf ltid 8:15 i.,,tlmj,,llllt t10 i....A HO Jud NA Mmi's Sow, lea•A 1BD l'IN>frl'ss«rtr hil• 8 11:0G W...at'sS11ttt1 loa•A 1:30 i....11 !~lQ 
feal,A !l:UG lml8 NA ro,!11QOW,l11Pori lwiA 9:31 k.,pinJ • e NA ~Pl 111'00 l••8 NA 11•'18'd•~-tlil 1-611!1 Men·, lladml\tll NA u .. r.m. CAil 1-611111 w.¦.1,Bmmin w....,, 81doti1100 CAlll-ilOI 
Breen-Phillips / Siegfried / Holy Cross 
111111)!,al .... ]'.lD CAI.I 1-611!) 1,lD CAil 1-611111
lallA Men'r~b>II 
.....,_ 
lloa R 7110 CAl.l 1-&1111 ~· .... a 71111 w,,.,_.·,RoaJJll!laU CMl1./i!llll t:nn 110 ,..•• 1!111bl.ball leuA 1:4/i M•i'1 .....ooll •·BB 1-8 l:lU 12:111 leMIB M Wu1M0'1&DIMllilM 11:UI 
-· 

W.....'sa..illbal ,... 1:1& t40 -•·•M-.... 1 I•!; l,th,11 l1Ml a-An 11MB tDD . 
mR u 
lllfjfoolbal 1-A us Wtllilal -· load 

1:15 N¦f foolbail T..d 11:30 W111eball lat11A 11:lG 
r.., :t.1& Uli ..... a ID:30 ®: 1,,.a NA i.,,i Goll load 1:00 •lblllilall Q:50 l;rlOIGcll lemnA NA 11... llod,iibill 9:10 
-· 

1-1 1:80 Mto'tS.-llld 111:00 1-A kA ...,.,s-lallA l'.ll w...,,s.a. Tad lltll 11:ll --·,s..a, r-A 11:DI i-e too loul 11:08 ......... Wul'llo aA t3U ..... 11A Ntibll Wat# l'1llo !ltd 1:31 lafaOJ 1t20 ......-· 114 Klftailg NA iu.e NA
............., CAlll-4ilH lllillr..il CAI.I 1-6111D 

Mtll'allmiltan 001-6109 r.All l.81111 
w...·,--tlUl-8\tl ~-­
WoNli8ad¦ 11111! CM.ll-&108 


" 
f-riday, January 29, 1999 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
------------------------------------------------------------~~­
Tennis 
continued from page 24 
good warm-up for them." 
llnading up Oklahoma's squad is sophomorn Vivjana Mracnova, No. 66 in tlrn coun­try. along with llaluca Gh11C1rglrn. who is tied for No. I 00. Thu cloublP.s lnam of Mrucnova and Senior Danielle Knipp is ranked 21st. 
Notre Dame's two weekend opponents both have an international flair. Kansas State's entire line-up is com­prisPd of foreign-born playnrs, while Oklahoma's is about hall' American and half fornign. Interestingly enough, Notre Dame is one of only throe teams in the top 20 with all 
Amorkan-born players. 
So what. should we expect out or llw Irish lltis weekend'! 
"Bight now. the team feels rnally conl'id•int about tlrn w•ick1rn<l," Varnum said. "But wo'rc not taking anyone for grnntnd." 
Soon n11ougli we'll know if Notr•i Dnmc•'s long week of rnlkction Lranslntcs into two big wins this wnnknnd. 

¦ TRACK AND FIELD 
Home schedule opens vs. IU 
By KEVIN THOMPSON Sport• Writ~r 
Senior pole vaulter Mike Brown will lead an cager track a.nd field squad into a tlual meet with lndiana Friday night at lhe Meyu Trnrk in Loftus Sports Center. 
Brown, who recently suffered a rwck injury has birnn out of action fi>r two weoks, anxiously awaiL,; the opportunity to quali­fy f'or thll NCAA Indoor (~hampionships in early March. Brown took his first jump in over a wc,ok Wednesday night and fools his bost stuff never loft him. 
"WhPn you step back from it and you'wi boon ,iwriy Uiis long. you're hungry for the opportu­nity to compete, especially at hnmti," Brnwn said. 
Two weeks ago in West Lafayettn, Ind .. t'or it was assumed Brown quu.lH1ed for tho NCAA Championships. His murk of 17 foet (third highest in Notre Uame history) satisfied last year's stand1Lrds. However, NCAA standards have been raisod this year. so Brown will need to add more height to 
qualify. 
Also for the men. sprinter and long jumpllr Ma.rshaun West is coming otl' a remarkable perfor­mance in which he provisionally qualified for the NCAAs and broke o. school record with a jump of 25 fflet, six inches. With added contidenco and the home field advantage, West is in position to possibly eclipse last week's mal'k. West is looking towards inspiration from tho home crowd this wMk. 
"I've never seen him like this.. Ho is confident and delinitely up for this meet." Brown said. 
On the women's side, junior high jumper Jennifer Englehardt is looking to make a returp to nationals. Englehardt placed ninth ln the high jump at tho 1997 Indoor Championships and bocame the first All­American in a field event in Notro Dame women's track and field history. The Battle Creek, Michigan native will look for the crowd to lift her over tho quali­fying plateau. 
"This is our first indoor meet of the year and we will look !'or the homo crowd to help us out," 
On tho opposite end or the litild stands a solid Indiana con­tingent that has posted high marks against. Big Ten powers Michigan arnl Ohio State, and finislrn<l socnnd to a tnlnntod Tonnessen squad. 
Junior Husst-)11 Brooks and freshman Hahnom Ellis, both of whom provisionally qualifiud in the 60-nwt,-~r dash last week­end, load lmliarm's sprintr.rs. 
While most of the athlotos stt:ive to read1 tlrn NCM cham­pionsli ips, Notre Dame !wad coach .loc Piaiw explains, "This 
is a great opportunity for our alhletes to put up some good m,trks hlll wo ciurnot overlook a very Lulentod Indiana team." 
Piane oxpncts several running 1wc•11ts inc:luding thn ;{,000­mctor runs lO µlay key roles in the final outcome. In the sprints, sophomore Terry .Wray is nxpnctcd to do wnll in Urn 400-mctor dash as is sonior Bobby Brown in the 200. Soplrn1tHlrt! Tony Drivnr is mak­ing llis season deliut tho 60­mcter dash. 
Tim lll(Hil starts with f'ield cvnni.s at (> p.m .• f'ollowed by 
Englehardt said. · running events at 7 p.m. 
¦ OLYMPICS 

IOC's investigation • 
focuses on Nagano 
Associated Press 

TOKYO 
Nagano·s winning bid for I.he 1998 Winter Games is the lat­est focus of' investigation in the growing Olympics corruption scandal. 
The .Japanese Olympic Committee on Thursday appointed a seven-member panel to look into the Nagano nfforts after Mayor Tasuku Tsukada said thue may have been "excesses" in tho city's <lealings with IOC members. 
The panel. headed by JOC secretary general Yushiro Yagi, was tlrn sixth Olympic investigation to get under way and the lirst of'licially aimnd at a city other than Salt L1tke, which Nagano defeated by four votes. 
Salt Lake City's successful bid for the 2002 Winter Games, on its l'if'th try, has been the subject of inquiries by the Justicci Department. the International and U.S. Olympic committees, an ethics panel of the Salt Lake Organizing Committee and the Utah attor­ney general's office. 
Last weekend, the IOC expelled six members for tak­ing more than $440,000 in cash, medical and travel expenses and lavish gifts from Salt Lake bidders. There have been four resignations and three other members remain under investigation in an 
·Three, 3-week sessions offered in unique southwestern setting 

· Limited number of scholarships and paid internships available 
•Sign up today in ND sirt Dep.1rtment ND sinthro Department SM£ sArt De('lrtment 
FOR FURTI-fER INFORMATION CONTACT: 
MERIDETH JOHNSON, SNITE MUSEUM OF ART 631.6230 
OR THERESA EBtE, DIRECTOR OF TAOS PROGRAM 505.758.9308 EMAIL: NDTAOS@rAOSNET.COM 
Men's Basketball vs. Providence 
Saturday, January 30th @12pm 
Come Support your 
Irish!!! 

JI a. 

VARSITY SHOP 'l'I'  HOCKEY  VARSITY SHOP 'l'I'  
vs.  
MICHIGAN  

Saturday, January 30th at 7pm 
First 1500 far1S receive a FREE N.O. '11-shirtl!! 
unprecedented purge of IOC ranks. 
In addition, the committee has asked all bid cities from the 1996 Summer Games onward to detail conduct of members or bid of'ficials that might have broken the rules. 
And -while it is not consid­ered a formal investigation ­the IOC has announced plans to send two top officials to Sydney, where the president of the Australia Olympic Committee said last we(lk that he offered $70.000 in induce­ments to two African members the night before Sydney won the 2000 Games by two votr.s over Beijing. 
In recent weeks, Nagano officials have disclosed how some IOC officials were wooed during the city's bid. including all-expenses-paid trips to Kyoto, a tourist spot 150 miles from Nagano. 
Some IOC on1cials also were entertained by geisha, and IOC president Juan Antonio Samaranch received an nxpen­sive painting and Japanese sword. 
JOC exncutive board mem­ber Chiharu lgaya, who also is an IOC member. has defended the lavish entertainment as "normal." 
Tsukada, the Nagano mayor who also was one of' the top oflicials of the bidding commit­ten. on Monday acknowledged "excesses" in his city's bid. 
Nagano bid officials have said they wined and dined the 62 visiting IOC officials, spend­ing about $18,000 on each IOC ol'licial. including air fare. 
Nagano's bidding expense rncords are missing, which could complicate the investiga­tion. A bid official said recent­ly he had the books burned in 
1992, 
Meanwhile, a group of' Nagano residents 111ed a civil lawsuit dPmanding that tlrn state and city of Nagano. as w•~II as two other towns that were the sil<is for the 1998 Games, return about $7 mil­lion in taxpayer morrny that allegedly went into the bid. 

11.ll 


. 
·­
page 18 The Observer• SPORTS Friday, January 29, 1999 
ments, the team is very much 
¦ !RISH INSIGHT
aware of' the importltnce of
Fencing 
this milestone. 

March madness c·oming soon 
•.Supp~~t~roup
Su1vivo1a1.:1of,1t 
offeredby SexQffense 
Open to all Uhg.etgradq gi;aduate women .atN 
For more,iriformati:o:ti; p 
SEX OFFENSE SERVICES at 283-1308 

Official Selection 1998 New York film festival 
fridav, Oct. 9th and Saturd4y, Oct.10th •All P[RfORHAltcES SOLD OUT! 
••Ho movie event this year is more likely to raise hell than 1NAPPINESS~u 
-Ptttr limn, ROLUHG STOii{ 
IJSubtly savage...Evilly funny!11 
-Jitlft Mnlin, lllE HEWYORK TIH[S 
HAPPINESS 
· a Plm bl Todd Solondz 

Cinema at the Snite 
Fri. & Sat. 7:00 p.m. and 9:45 p.m. Presented by ND FIim, Television, and Theatre www.nd.edu/~cothweb 
By TED FOX 
Sports Wrirer 
Well, it's Jan. 29, and it's time to set my sights on the major sporting event that is just around the corner. 
No, it's not the start of the NBA season. The Bulls' season doesn't look too promising anymore, so I'm not real excit­ed about that. 
No, it's not the Super Bowl,' either. Don't get me wrong: I love football, and this should be a great game (Broncos, 31­24), but I'm not going crazy waiting to watch it. Besides, I wrote an article about NFL refs last week, so I need some­thing new. 
The real fun. my fdends, doosn't roll around until March when, for almost an entire month, the sports world is enveloped by the phenome­non known as March Madness. 
"What is March Madness?" 
you might ask. It's the time of 
year when basketball reigns 
supreme. It's most often iden­
tified with the men's and 
women's NCAA tournaments, 
each featuring 64 of the best 
teams in the country. 
For my purposes, I'm going 
to focus on the men's game, 
the arena where I possess the 
most knowledge and memo­
ries, and the way it seems to 
transform the lives of basket­
ball fans for the duration of 
the tournament. 
This is the time of year when 
memories are made. 
Critical to an understanding 
of the tournament process is 
the presence of the "pool". A 
pool is a copy of the tourna­
ment bracket that you fill out 
with your predicted winners of 
each game in each round. 

Watching the games to see if' your predictions come true, 11specially with friends, is an unforgettable experience. 
I remember gathering in my high school library in Ann Arbor, Mich. last year on the first day of the tournament, which is always a Thursday. From this Thursday through Sunday is wall-to-wall basket­ball, with teams you've never heard of battling the schools that make all the headlines in first and second-round action. 
'IHAD GONE FROM IDIOT, 
TO GENIUS, BACK TO IDIOT IN A MATIER OF HALF-AN-HOUR AND HAD LOVED EVERY MINUTE OF 
IT.' 

Two such games were the focus of our attention as we skipped class in the library last year. 
The first was the Valparaiso vs. Mississippi State game. I had a particular interest in this game because I had picked '13th-seeded Valpo to upset the 4th-seeded Bulldogs. Most people thought I was nuts. And they all told me that as the game was winding down with MSU comfortably in front. 
The details of those minutes 
are still a blur. I don't remem­
ber how, but Valpo cut their 
deficit to just two points in the 
closing seconds. But they still 
had to go the length of the 
court in just a few seconds, so 
I still looked like an idiot. 
And then it happened. 
e Join the Tradition , now being accepted fo~:,:\ 1999--2000 academic sch· 
k up applications atthe·Olfi'c~:if Student Activities, 315 Lafortune 
Febru 
Bryce Drew, son uf' Va~po's coach Homer Drew, hit a hanging three from the far wing as the clock expired, giv­ing the 13th-seeded squad the upset win. 
The room was shocked,· except for me, of course. I was laughing. 
That same Thursday. tlw Western Michigan Broncos wore battling the Clemson Tigers in first round action as well. I don't remember the seeds for these two teams. but Clemson was a heavy favorite. In my bracket, I think I had them going all the way to the Elite Eight or Final Four. I d6n't remember which, but it wasn't important. Either way. Clemson had to win for me to avoid having a totally destroyed.bracket. It shouldn't have been much of a problem. 
But it was. 

The game was way too close throughout, and Western was still giving the Tigers all they could handle as the game wound down. Back and forth they battled, neither team able to pull away. Adding tu this drama were the cheers of a large contingent pulling for the underdog, home-state WMU squad. I wasn't part of that crowd. but that didn't matter. The Broncos pulled off the sec­ond major upset of the day, and once again, everybody was laughing at me. 
I had gone from idiot, to genius, back to idiot in a mat­ter of half an hour and had loved every minute of it. 
March Madness is coming. Bring on the pools, bring on the games, and bring on the skipped classes to watch the games. I've been waiting all my life for this. 
Well, maybe 11 months. 
continued from page 24 
Once again this weekend, the group to watch will be the men's sabre squad_ Despite the fact that 'I 998 all­American Andrzej Bednarski has elected not to fence this season. the squad has ovu­w helmcd opponents. The Fabulous Freshmen, Audre Crompton and Gabor Szelle, and 1998 NCAA sabre cham­pion Luke LaValle will look to dominato the competition again lhis week. 
The trio combined to post 49 victories coupled with only eight defeats. The team was especially strong against Penn State and Stanford -going 8­1 against the Nitany Lions and 7-2 against the Cardinal 
"These guys are the best in the country as a team." coach Auriol said. "Even without Andrzej. They are strong. I think they are going tu carry the men's team all along." 
This weekend could also 
mark a milestone for Auriol 
as he is looking to pick up his 
400th career victory. 
Auriol, however, is down 
playing this accomplishment: 
''I never kept track of these 
things. I found out from the 
Sports Information 
Department. It's nice but I 
didn't really know where I 
was as far as victories." 
Despite Auriol's professed 
ignorance of his accomplish­
"It ·[ getting the 400th victo­ry] is really important," Stephane Auriol said. "The n~ason we are so successful has to do with him and the coaching staff. It's a milestone that not many coaches can reach s<f it's important for us. We are fighting hard for it." 
This weekend's meet is one of only two home meets for the Irish this year. Home fans will be treated to not only the extremely skilled starters but also the hard working reserves who will get a chance to show their talent against the lesser competi­tion. 
"(Getting the reserves play­ing time] is one of the most important parls of this team," Stephane Auriol said. ·•we want everyone Lo be involved and everyone that puts in the hard work to be able to com­pete." . 
The meet lasts all weekend so there will be plenty of time for fans to come out and sup­port the Irish in the field house, right next to the hock­ey rink. The talented Irish squad will look to pick up 12 wins for both the men's and women's squad and continue on the road to the NCAAs in Bradeis this March. 
"Hopefully we can continue 
building towards March," 
Stephane Auriol said. "Use 
every weekend as a stepping 
stone." 

Priday, January 29, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 19 
¦ SPORTS BRIEFS 
CHOSS·COUNTRY SKI CLINICS -Put uH this snow to good uso! Pick one or rnorti of tho following clinics to attend.· Fnb. (i at 10 a.m.• or Fflb. 13 at 2 p.m. Come spend a Saturday on the snow covered Notre Dame Golf Course! Plea.se register in advance al RecSports. Cost is only $5. 
¦ NFL 

Marino feels· sense of relief 

VARSITY SHOP
JN> MEN'S TENNiS JN> 
vs. #7 TEXAS 
Saturday, January 30th 
AsrnciaLe<I Press 
WESTON. Fla. 
Dan Marino insists lw played only a small rolli in persuading .Jimmy .Johnson to !'ontinuo co1u·.lii'r1){ llw Miami Dolphins. 
llownv,ir. ho couldn't hido his sc11sP of l'('lid' whnn discussing tlw 111.ill.or Thursday. 
"II' Ile ldt. it ,~ould huvl' alfod1!d ii lot or ]H'Opln's livm; d1ill'im1'11L11lly -Urn coaclrns, tlw play1ffs." '.vtarino said. 
"IL was important Lo stay," thP Ni:1:s rareer ltiading pnss­or adclncl. "I think wn'ro that dos<' to u Super Bowl." 
Jol111~011. ctislraughl owr his inability lo IJal,rncc football and family. vpry noarly walkod away from tlw Dolphins two wm:ks ago IJ1)1'orc a I.isl-minute clwngo of' Iwart. 
lln arriv<•d at Urn team's training rn111plox .l1u1. 14 inl.<rnt 
... 

on stepping down as coaeh and general manager. lfo found Marino waiting outside his office. The two talked, and a longer meeting between Johnson and Dolphins owner 
II. Wayne Huizenga convinced .Johnson to stay. 
Marino deflected credit to lluizenga, but snid Thursday he was glad to have played a role. 
"I le had a· long me11ting with Mr. Huizenga. I think mo talk­ing Lo him before that help1~d." Marino said. "I think it helped him want to stay." 
Fired Chicago Bears coach Dave Wannstodt, a formnr Johnson aide at Dallas and tho 
University of Miami, instead joined tho staff as assistant head coach to take some of the 
pressure off Johnson. 

Marino accepted his Man of the Year trophy during cere-
V"RSITY SHOP

TRACK & FIELD -..­
(dual meet) 
vs. 
INDIANA 
monies at the Miami Children's llospital-Dan Marino Center, built with the help of a $1 mil­lion commitment from the Dan Marino Foundation. 
The hospital, in the far sub­urbs of Fort Lauderdale, offers comprehensive cam to children with chronic medical needs. Though open only a year, plans already are in the works to double its capacity. Marino will contribute an additional $500,000. 
"This has been our biggest project, and it's something I'm extremely proud of," said Marino, whose foundation received a $25,000 donation from award sponsor Sprint Communications Co. 
Marino is keeping a low pro­file during Super Bowl week, saying it's frustrating Lo not be a part of' all the hoopla when the game's in his hometown. 
&IL 

Friday, January 29th
@ l p.m. 

6 p.m.at Loftus --FREE!!!
at Eck Pavilion--FREE!!! 


be concerned about a change in the non-discrimination clause? 
Fiodootd"'iogili, WEEK OF ACTION Feb. 1-5 
NOTE: All films will be shown at 9:00pm in Montgomery Theater (in LaFortune). 
. 
Monday: Wear shoes and rainbows to show your support for the clause. Free rainbow snowcones in LaFortune from ll-2pm. 

. 
Tuesday: 7:00pm in Washington Hall, presentations by Phil Donahue, Pete Cesaro and others concerning the revision of the non-discrimination clause. Films: Love, Valour, Compassion & South Park. 

. 
Wednesday: Fast begins at sunrise. Pick up a copy of the WOA newsletter. Fihns: Longtime Companion & South Park. 

. 
Thursday: Fast continues. 8:30-9:00pm Vigil at the Grotto. Films: Priscilla Queen of the Desert & South Park. 

. 
Friday: Fast ends at midnight. Go see The Opposite ofSex by N.D.'s own Don Roos at the 


Snite. All sponsored events are absolutely FREE!! ! 
• 
Co-sponsored by PSA & College Democrats 

page 20 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, January 29, 1999 
[ass o  
ss attfte asi[ica 5:00 pm, Saturda1, gan. 30, 1999 ,. ~p,ciaf ~,ni.o'l. /;f£j,j,in9 9i'7£n by cMonh cMaffoy .:$hau. on, of tfu f aj,t 'l.£li.9iouj, c,f,C'l.ationj, wi.th 9ou'l. ·f 'l.i,ndj, & cfaum.atu *reserved seating for Seniors 

• 

..-:-.... .. 
Friday, January 29, 1999 The Observer • SPORTS page 21
------------------=:....:..:..~-----=-----=-=-------------------------~:::__ 
Irish 
continued from page 24 
at 11 11<1w lnvPI. Their olfonsn and dnl'nnsn haw startncl click. 
"For a whilP this snason. wn w,·n· winning. but not pulling t1\ams away," Hihiy said. "Now. wp'r11 focusing morn on playing for all 40 minutos." 
Thn Irish shouldn't havfl too 
'WE'RE LOOKING FOR­
WARD TO BOSTON 

COi.LEGE. ITS GOING TO BE 
A REVENGE GAME.' 
Rli7[[ RlLEY 
IR!SII CENTER 

11111!'h troulilP with lhP 5-14 Friars. but this ganw is a must­win as thn Irish pnqrnro for a ,·rudal gamn with Boston C:olhige, who upsnt them narlior this S<!ason. 
•·w,\'rp looking forward t.o Boston Collngn. Its going lo be a rnvnngn ganw," Hilny said. "But I think we'n1 just trying to put l'rovidm1cn away. Wn'rn playing good baskntball and wn hopl' to conlimw that." 
¦ MEN'S TENNIS 

Longhorns to invade ND this weekend 
By NATHANIEL DeNICOI.A Sp(,m Writ<'r 
The Notre Dame men's ten­nis team will roceiv,i its first opportunity to provo it.s might on Saturday as it takes on sev­(111 th-ranked Texas at the Eck Tennis Pavi.lion. 
The 23rd-ranked Irish will look to build on their 3-0 sc~a­son rocord which includns vic­tories over Miami lOhio). William and Mary, t\Od 6:frd­ran ked Wisconsin. Unquestionably the most chal­lenging match of the season to date, Texas is orni of tho 12 rankt)d oppononts tho Tris.h will face -including home meets against fifth-ranked Illinois and 10th-l'ankod. 
"We definitely will have our work cut out for us," said junior Ryan Sachire. "We've boon practicing vory hard and feel ready for this Saturday." 
As if the No. 7 ranking wasn't enough, hoad coach Bob Bayliss observed, ''They may be ranked seventh, but they're actually better than that. They're the type of team that on th(1 right day can boat anyone." 
If past competitions are any indication of' what to oxpoct on Saturday, count on a nail­biter. In the last four matches between the squads J\J each of which foaturocl Texas ranked ahead of Notrn Danrn N the Irish have been slighted by the narrowHst of nrnrgit1s, los-. iug 4-3 each time. The most recent encounter Ulustrates this p()int, as t.h(l Irish came within a few points of turning the match iu their favor. 
"The match was so dose you could pin point the. exact bounces of the ball that ended up costing us the vktory," Bayliss said. "I have confi­dence that we can win the crucial matches. It's all a mat­ter of poise.'' 
Notre Dame will attack with much the same lineup that has proven successful in the 

three previous matches. 
Leading the charge at No. 1 
singles is third-ranked 
Sachire, who i.s coming off his 
biggest win of tho season. Last 
Tuesday Sachire downed 
f'ourth-rankod Mark Loughrin ·of Wisconsin. 
"It was an important: victory 
!'or the whole te,nn," said 
Sachire. "By proving wo can 
beat a good. team fWisconsinl 
.in their court, it gives us con­
fidence that we can play well 
against other good teams at 
home." 

Tbll hc1mo~court ,idvantagn 
has particular importance for 
Saturday's match since it will 
be the first time Texas has 
played on an indoor court this 
season. 

Sachire could face any one 
of a slow of Texas players 
capable of playing at No. 1, 
including seventh-ranked Jack 
Brasington. Senior co-captain 
Brian Patterson, who beat 
Brasington in their last battle, 
will play No. 2 singles, accom­
paniod by Matt Daly at No. 3, co-captain Andy Warford at No. 4 and th(i freshman duo or Casey Smith and Androw Laf1in at Nos. 5 and 6. 
"From top to bottom, I feel our lineup is vory balanced," Bayliss said. 
As well he should, given the dominance th,tt Sachire, Pattorson, and Daly have asserted and LaOin's unbeat­en streak at No. 6. The dou­bles teams ol' Sachire/Pattcrson, Matt Horsley/Trent Miller and Daly/Smit.h have beon tiqually successful, sweeping the last two doubles points. Although Horslt~y·s presenc(i will likHly be missed in singles action due to a healing wrist. his doubles activity will not l.w hindered. 
~All I can say is that he's been playing great at dou­bles," Bayliss said .. 
Tho match will be played Saturday al l p.m. at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
:0..: 
':>f'i:iAME ~EED?

E"60NOv1ICALLY fNGi/N!:E fl.ED ---~ INC/:!E'A~E: PALM ANO
Neve:~ TO $PlL.L ~ Gil:.T MESSY 
2 -SLICE!:> OF CHEE?/: SECURELY ANCHOI'. FLA/.45•~/LEO PATTIES 
LOWE/If. P.>UN 
CU.HION'!> ANO C~Dt..E€> 
PRSCIOU!i CNZGO 
"'I 6/<'AM':> i<ETCHUP 
'6i1'AM<ai MU9rl'-~D 
STAll>IL.IZE H01'.170NTAL 
l:,NCOUl<'A~!;:,S 

~ti:EF' '<IHI FT<S CAl'Er'UL HANDL.ING 


THE FIRST BURGER ENGINEERED WITH TAKE-OUT IN MjND. 
~

THE DOU~l-E CHEESEF!>U"-<:SE~. 
BURGER

ONLY G:tq4, FOf<. A LIMITED 1IME. 
KING 

DRAWING NO.  JOB NO. ~01  (PRICE ANO PARTICIPATION MAY VARY.)  
L1 DATE SCALE -D_RA_W I/~ FULL .,___N_B_Y_M_"__, !~'::=~:~ The Huddle. l.aFortune Student Canter _____________ ~ ~~~~:~~":g~H:~::~~:;~g ~::;~:~1~!~=~:N~~~:!6L~:T~~ED;~;~::.  .... "ITdUSTTASTESmtEI:-"  When You"IMIT'111JlwAV6*  


"The Best Value In Off Campus Living" 
Professionally Managed by Real Estate Management Corp. 
234-9923 
.. 


page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, January 29, 1999 
¦ Mrn's BASKETBALL 

Irish go for season sweep against Providence 

By AlAN WASIELEWSKI Sports Writer 
The men's basketball team will get a rare opportunity in the Big East this weekend. 
The contest against Providence at the Joyce Center Saturday, scheduled for a noon tip-off, will be the first chance for the Irish to sweep a confrrence opponent this vear. On Dec. 8, Notre Dame visited the Providence Civic Center and came away with one of the biggest wins of the year, 83-80. 
Hopefully that victory can lift the spirits of coach John MacLeod's troops, following con­secutive heart breaking losses that dropped their overall record to 10-11. 
Last weekend. Rutgers guard Geoff Billet hit an improbable last-second shot to beat Notre Dame at the Joyce Center. That was followed by Wednesday's road loss to Boston College, the Eagle's first Big East victory of the year. 
Notre Dame has lost four of their last five games and are in desperate need of a momentum shift as they head into the sec­ond half of their conference schedule. 
Saturday's contest will test the mettle of the Irish squad. Providence comes onto campus with a 13-7 record (6-4 in the 

en's Basketba 
Schedule 
Sunday, Feb 21 est Virginia Wednesday, Feb t St. John's 3unday, Feb 2 n College 
an 30 Feb 6 ay, Feb 10 , Feb 14 Wednesday, Feb 17 
IRISH vs. DIABETES 
RAISE MONEY FOR AGOOD CAUSE... "jJJ9l A BIKE TRIP THROUGH 
•yr-COLORADO 
or a DISNEY WORLD VACATION!! 
JOIN THE FIGHT FOR ACURE FOR JUVENILE DIABETES. 
Sign up a team of four by Feb. 1 
Call Gina or Barb at x1462, Danielle at x1551, or look for sign up sheets in your dorm. 

.. 
Provide 
at Seton Ha 

Georgetown 
at West Virginia at Syracuse 
conference), and the leading scorer in the Big East. 
Senior swing-man Jamel Thomas' 22 points, tops in the Big East, and eight per game make him a primary concern for Notre Dame. Thomas leads a proficient offensive machine that will test the Irish defense, rated the worst in the conference in points allowed. 
'NOTRE DAME'S INABIL­
ITY TO PUT TOGETH­
ER CONSECUTIVE, WELL­
PLAYED GAMES HAS RESULT­
ED IN ONLY THREE WINS 
SINCE DECEMQER 29.' 
Notre Dame's inability to put together consecutive, well­played games has resulted in only three wins since a five­game winning streak was bro­ken by Syracuse on Dec. 29. 
The loss of leading scorer Troy Murphy had some effect on that record. but his quick return from an ankle sprain at Roston College Wednesday was not suf­ficient to put the team over the top. 
While Murphy was out of the line-up, Notre Dame's role play­
ers stepped up their production 
-particularly seniors Antoni 
Wyche and Phil Hickey. Wyche 
contributed big buckets against 
Seton Hall and Rutgers and 
Hickey was able to pick up some 
of the rebounding slack in 
Murphy's absence. 
At Boston College, some of that 
production dropped off and the 
Irish were unable to recover. If 
the offensive numbers remain 
low on Saturday, it will be anoth­
er long day for the Irish. 
As the Irish push toward the 
post-season, the performance of 
the freshman class will be even ·more crucial. 
Murphy has already estab­
lished himself as one of the best 
players in the Big East. He is 
fourth in the league in scoring, 
second in rebounding, and first 
in field goal percentage. When 
Notre Dame met Providence 
back in December, Murphy 
scored 30 points in his first Big 
East contest. 
David Graves is also having a 
solid debut season on the Irish 
squad. Averaging just over 13 
points per game. he has devel­
oped into one of Notre Dame's 
best three-point threats and a 
solid defensive presP.nce. 
There have also br,en hints of 
better performances from the 
rnst of the Irish roster. 
Sophomore point guard Martin 
Ingelsby single-handily brought 
the Irish back into the game 
against Rutgers with a 19-point 
second half. 
MacLeod has also enlisted the 
help of freshman Javin Hunter, a 
wide receiver on the football 
team. who could see action as 
soon as this weekend. 
Notre Dame's back is against 
the wall. They have played ,vell 
at home all year and should Le 
motivated by the Fact every loss 
from now on will further dilute 
their hopes of post-season play. 

Wolfie's 
Super Bowl Special!!!! Get a free order of 6 wings (hot, mild or BBQ) with each two foot Party Sub ordered 24 hours in advance! Call Wolfie's at 243-9911 for menu information! 
(expires 1/31/99) [~.] FREE DELIVERY 


The Observer/ Jeff Hsu Senior Phil Hickey hopes to bounce back from his subpar performance against Boston College and continue his recent inspired play. 
NoTRE 0AME OEPARTf,IENT OF MUSIC PRESENTS 
FACULTY ARTIST 

GEORGINE RESICK, SOPRANO 
AND 
MIKO KOMINAMI, PIANO 
OF INDIANA UNIVERSITY SOUTH BEND 

2:00 PM, SUNDAY 


JANUARY 31 , 1999 ANNENBERG AUDITORIUM 
SNJTE MUSEUM 

TICKETS: $3-$10 AVAILABLE AT THE LAFORTUNE Box OFFICE, (219} 631-8128 
PLEASE CALL (219) 631-6201 FOR MORE INFORf,IATION. 
Wolfie's 
Pasta, Sandwiches, Service & More! 
Location: 

-in the Campus Shoppes -1835 South Bend Ave. -Between Ironwood and Edison 
Hours: 
-Sunday to Thursday 11 am to 1 am -Friday and Saturday 11 am to 3 am 
FREE DELIVERY 

243-9911 
($5 minimum-Limited Delivery J\rea­Drivers carry less Than $20) 

Friday, January 29, 1999 
The Observer• TODAY page 23 LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF ND 
DAN SULLIVAN 

YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
FRIDAY, JANUARY 2'1, 1999 
CELEBRITIES IIORN ON THIS on the table. Investments will be DAY: Tom Selleck, Ann Jillian, lucrative. 000 Katharine Ross, Germaine Greer, VIRGO (Aug. 23-SepL 22): Travel 
Oprah Winfrey, Greg Louganis for business or pleasure. Much can be 
Happy Birthday: You're in the dri· gained if you organize your course of ver' s seat, so get moving. Take those action. You will have the stamina to id<.'as you've been thinking about and accomplish your goals if you direct put them into motion. You will only yourself accordingly. 0000 prosper if you take action. nie time to LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Your make your move is now. You can personal life will be unpredictable. make all sorts of changes that will not Don·t get involved with those who only enhance your reputation, but are overindulgent or escapist. Prob­also bring you the support and lems with your house must be taken encouragement that you require in care of immediately. 00 order to get ahead. Your numbers: 7, SCORPIO (Ocl 23-Nov. 21): Trav­13, 18, 27, 33, 45 el will bring cultural knowledge that 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Dis­can't be learned in any other way. 
putes at home will be hard to avoid. Your memory will help you in your Overspending on selfish items rou­creative pursuits. Your honesty will pled with neglecting your responsi• result in new friendships. 00000 biljties will be rhe brunt of the prob­SAGITfARlUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 211: lem. Work quiddy to rectify this situa­Your personal partner may be less tion. 00 than accommodating today. Don't 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You push your luck; it is best to steer clear are likely to overreact to emotional of confrontations. Try to compromise situations. It is best to step back from and bend to other's wishes. 000 the sihlation rather than lru<E' sides or CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): make hasty decisions regarding yotll" Pleasure trips will be favorable and respo=. Avoid serious talks. 0000 result in new friendships or partner­
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You ships. Humanitarian groups will can expect to experience some unusu­want you as their leader due to your al circumstances regardmg money or strong beliefs and persuasive attitude. legal matters. Be caretul not to 000 divulge valuable information. You AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): could be setting yourseli up if you do. Insight will be greatly needed. Look 000 to those who can offer you advice. 
CANCER {June 21•July 22): Emo­You need mental stimulation. Join 

FOXTROT I'M So AN6R'I' WH'I' ? 
BECAUSE 1T"LL HURT 

1HEY of'ENED TI-lAl 8ECAVSE 
All 1liE MoM ANO PoP 

CoffEEBo<kS ~cl( IT'S 
NO... NO..• COFFEE SHoPS ~ 

IN ll-lE M100LE of So 
)
\ I 

THE oll) lbWN CoRPol?ATE1 
SQUARE. / 
" 'l 
I~ 

DILBERT 
•=============::::::::-. E r---:-:=::::::::::::========-=--=--=---=---=--::..­
1'M. 11\1<-ING YOUR URGE..'"'T OOCUM'E.Ni TO
'" 

TI-IE 0\/tRNIGHT DROP 
A ~-"-'"~~ 12 Airport figures with names on signs 

13 Takeoff 
18 Ruled 
19Vitamin 

~:.....i.--=~::+:E:1 specification =-.i...:.+~~+:-E+D=4 24 Costly W.W. I battleground ~_....R-+-S-. 26 Allege U T E ~.:.:+.:...+:.:.+-=;..i..a;. D G E 29 Elaine -­E H S A N Y W E L.C..I--'--'--' ("Seinfeld'' role) 
~ ~ 
@!
I 
°' 
E 
0 
0 
t: 
~ 
'o! 
BILL AMEND 
BECAUSE IT'S t WONt>£REO 
RIGHT oN 1l-\E Wtl'Y HIS Rou"lt PETER TEETH WERE lAld::S HOME CHATTERING AU. 
fRoM SCliooL. lHaiuGH DINNER_ 
\==I 

54 Phrase of sympathy 57".. . --saw Elba" 58 Made level 59 Size up 60 Carpenter's 
groove 61 Texas leaguer? &2 River to the 
North Sea 
DOWN 
1 Determines the sum 2 Guardian for Odysseus 3 Torrid 4 Eucalyptus leaf eaters 5Ebony 6 Declaration of puppy love? 1Entre-­8 Didn't stay active 
9 Passover 
celebrations 10 Screened 11 Barely beat 
™E BO)( IS ONLY 
1-1
EIG T MINUTE$ A.WA.Y. I'LL 5TOP FOR COFFEE FlR5T. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
ur:::::===========:::7 

! 
~ 
,; J-i 
1 

tional upset will be the case if you groups that deal with self-awareness don't keep things in perspective. You as well as those that offer a creative must busy yourself with energetk outlet. 000 activities that will ~Ip you vent your PISCES (Feb. 1'1-March 20): Don't anxiety and frustration. 000 let unreliable friends take advantage 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may of your good nature. You mustn't pay 
DON'T WORR.'\". IF 
TI-\E TR.UC K I$ PULLING 

be feeling a little depressed about for other people's mistakes or their your personal situation. You can tum entertainment just be<:ause you don't
AWfl..'< fROM TH£ BOX, 

that feeling around if you plan a quiet want them to walk away from you. evening for two and lay your cards 00000
I'LL WEDGE T\-\15 IN Tl-\£ ei/A.CK. BUMPE.R. 

¦ OF INTEREST 
Medieval Institute -The Medieval Institute invites interested students and faculty to come hear Professor Robert Nelson lecture on "Byzantine Narratives, Textual and Visual, Modern. and Medieval" today at 3:3() p.m. in the Medieval Institute Reading Room, 715 Hesburgh Library. Professor Nelson is a distinguished art historian at the University of Ch.lcago whose work focuses on Byzantine manuscripts, illumination, and 
.._

sc.nbal culture. 
ND Departmm1t of Music -Faculty soprano Georgine Resick will perform Sunday, Jan. 31 at 2 p.m. in the Annenburg Auditorium. Ms. Rosiek will be accompa• tii~d by Miko Kominami of Indiana University South Bend. Tickets for the concert are avallable at the Lafortune Box Office, 631-8128, and are $3 for stu­dents, $6 for senior citizens, $8 for ND/SMC employees with ID, and $10 general admission. 
. 

Please Recycle The Observer. Otherwise, you're just throwing it away. 
February 1 st,2nd,3rd. Free Admission. Cushing Auditorium. 
BOX, WI.Tl-\ 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 What to do 
5 Singer Joplin 
10 Plant for burlap 
14One of the Ringling brothers 15 Lose ground 1& Something to think about 17 "Oliver Twist· character 20 Test site for an aquanaut 21 Detected 22 Command for D.D.E. 23 Like a wuss 25 Was terrified by 27 Is worthwhile 2a Broadcast ,nits. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE B A H 

r T o 
s A E N i.:;...+_....;;;.+--. 
NI:NE MI~UTE.S TO SPI\RE.. 
~ 
30 Mouth-watering 31 Prison guard, in 
slang 33 Saturn or Mars 34 Feature of 17­
and 54-Across, 
literally 37 Hunk 38 Mattress maker 39 Train to box? 41 Criterion: Abbr 42 New York 
Shakespeare Festival founder 46 Journey of self-propulsion? 48 U.N. intervention site 50 What's more 51 "A Girl Like I" author 53 Where you pay to play 
L.P-uzz_1....eb_y_.M_a_nn_._y_N-osowsky 
31 In the manner of a judge 32 ·--new?" 34 Cherry-colored 35 Deliver a tirade 36 Get-rich-quick place 37 Madame in Roma 39 Took for the summer, maybe 
40 He played Sinatra in "The Rat Pack" 
42 Cream puff, 47 Standard's maybe partner 
43Warm 49 Place for an ile 
welcomes 52 Barred 
44 Gilbert and Sullivan extra 
55 Orinoco, e.g. 
45 Spiel 5&Alway 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Monday: The Thief. Tuesday: The Eel. 


Wednesday: Woman on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown All shows begin at 8p.m. 



¦ Track and field opens 
¦ Men's basketball 
its home indoor season 
looks to sweep the sea­
at Meyo track on 

son series this weekend 
Friday. 

against Providence. 
PORTS 

p.17 
p.22 
O 
THE 

page 24--------------BSERYER ------------------Friday,January 29, 1999 

.¦ WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
No. 7 Irish set for Friars 
By BRIAN KESSLER and 
ANTHONY BIANCO 
Assisranr Sports Edirors 
Three weeks ago, Notre Dame center Ruth Riley single-handedly beat Providence, scoring a career-high 36 points and grabbing 13 rebounds en route to a 79-56 Notre Dame victory. 
Riley and the seventh-ranked Irish (16­
2} will look to take it to the Friars Saturday night at 7 p.m. when they travel to Providence in hopes of w.inning their eighth-straight conference game. 
The Friars \.\ill still be without tho ser­vices of 6-f'oot-5 Dani Trippany, who also missed thP first meeting with a stress fracture. 
''They're looking to double-team me more, so we'll be looking to pass to who­over's open," Hiley said. 
When Riley gets in trouble inside, she will no d()ubt look to kick the ball out to three-poinl specialist Sheila McMillen, who has scored 20 or more points in five of her last seven games. The senior cap­tain is third in the Big East in scoring 
(15.8 points per game} and deadly from beyond the arc. 
"They're going to go into the zone on us. so we have to work on getting the ball outside," said Niele Ivey, who was 3-of-6 from dmvntown in Tuesday's blowout vic­tory over Syracuse. "When Sheila doesn't 
' shoot well. which doesn't happen much, we have a lot of other players ready out­side." Danielle Green is one of those players. 
; The senior has been putting up career numbers, averaging 16.3 points per game which ranks her fifth in the Big East. Notre Dame is also looking to continue their tight defense. The Irish have kept their last three opponents under 61 points. "We've been focusing on playing good defense," Ivey said. "Each game is to pre­pare for the NCAA tournament." Providence will look to spread the ball around, which could pose a problem for the Irish. 
"It's hard to guard an offense when one person's not the main scorer," Riley said. 


~ the hump and win their first this weekend include lllinois­
Monika Roberts and Dana Simonelli 

i NCAA title. Chicago, Detroit, Lawrence,
each scored 13 when the team's met ear­

The only ranked opponent Michigan, Michigan State,
lier this season. 

that the Irish will face this Northwestern, Tri-State and
Recently, however, the Irish are playing The Observer/ Liz Lang 

weekend will be Ohio State's Purdue.
Duke, like most teams, couldn't handle Ruth Riley and 

women's team. The Buckeyes
see IRISH/ page 21 the rest of the Irish squad. 

see FENCING/ page 18 
¦ FENCING 
Auriol on pace to surpass 400 wins 
By MIKE CONNOLLY return all-American foilist Spores Weiter Yelena Kalkina from the fourth-best women's foil 
f,ollowing a weekend in squad at last year's NCAAs. which the Irish fencing team The team also boasts an excel­faced their toughest competi­lent No. 2 foilist in Fane Groes tion or the season, thev return from Copenhagen, Denmark. home to tako on significantly "[Kalkina) is always tough weaker competition as they competition," coach Auriol take on Midwestern teams. said. "I think Sara [Walsh) and 
Coach Yves J\uriol knows Myriah (Rrown] will be excited that he will have a tougher to fence her again. Their No. 2 time motivating his squad for girl [Groes] is very good too. these teams than he did for She is a strong competitor. So the national powerhouses like they have two good foilists." Penn State and Stanford that All-1\mericans Sara Walsh the Irish faced last weekend. and Myriah Brown both had 
"Its not easy great starts sometimes to to the '99 
'HOPEFULLY WE CAN
motivate the season at team" said CONTINUE BUILDING State College. Brown went
Auriol. "But I TOWARDS MARCH, USE 
think that thev 16-6 on the want to EVERY WEEKEND AS A STEP-weekend
be 
while Walsh the rest of the performed season. flawlessly en Picking up STEPHANE AURIOL route to a 13­another 0 record. 
undefeated for PING STONE.' 
MEN'S FOIL CAPTAIN 

Midwest The other Championship competition is important to the team." for the Irish will not be nearly 
The Irish, however, still as strong. Case Western understand the importance of Reserve, Cleveland State and this weekend's match-ups. Wayne State all managed to 
"It is naturallv a little hard­place fencers at last year's er to get motiv.:i.ted especially NCAAs but none should pose a after such a tough weekend," threat to the Irish. foil captain Stephane Auriol The Irish have captured the said. "But Midwest is still last seven Midwestern com­important. So its still not that bined team championships hard to get motivated." and have not lost to a 
Auriol finished last weekend Midwestern opponent since at 11-8. He must continue to 1996 when the men's squad perform well, especially at the fell to Wayne State 16-11. NCAAs in March, if the strong The other schools that will senior class hopes to get over be competing against the Irish 
¦ WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Sooners, Wildcats on Notre Dame's horizon 
,,._ By WES JACOBS "We're very excited to get back out to give anything up," Freshman Becky though, they could be tough. They Sporrs Wricer there," senior captain Jen Hall said. Varnum said. won't see a lot of tougher matches than "These are both matches that we Notre Dame's first opponent, Kansas these four." Ever since the final point was played should win, and thev State, enters the Kansas State sophomore Martina in their last match against Pepperdine, should give us the match with a record Pospisilova, ranked number 73 in the the Irish have been preparing to get opportunity to bounco 'THESE ARE BOTH of 0-3, and a national nation. leads the Wildcats into back onto the courts and back into the back after the loss.'' ranking of 58. Oklahoma City. The Irish are 6-0 all
MATCHF.S THAT WE

win column. The attitude on the However, all three time against Kansas State. 
That last competition was hard-fought team has not dampened SHOULD WIN.' losses came against Oklahoma is another team that the and came down lo the last doubles since that loss. The highly ranked oppo-Irish are uncertain about. Presentlv match. Unfortunately, the Irish dropped overwhe-Irr1ing theme is ncnts Arizona, ranked 45th, Louderback predicts that
J L 

that doubles match 8-6 in a lie-breaker one of moving on. AY OUDERBACK Mississippi, and San the Sooners are much better than their and fell to Pepperdine 5-4. "I feel that lthe loss] WOMEN'S TENNIS COACH Diego, so Irish coach ranking. 
The t1-,am will get exactly what it inspired us to win even Jay Louderback is "Oklahoma is a pretly deep team, and wants this weekend when it travels to morn. We had a really not sure what to they have solid players," Louderback Oklahoma City: a ehanee to face off great week of prar,tice. with Iots of expect. said. "We're glad that we're playing 
against Big 12 Conference foes Kansas intensity. Our attitude now is that if we "They've had a real hard start," them second, as Saturday will give us a State and Oklahoma al the Woodlake can go out and beat someone 6-0, 6-0. Louderback said. "If they can make it Racket Club. we'll try hard to do it. We're not going through this first part of thoir schedule, see TENNIS/ page 17 
w 
ar Providence vs. Michigan 
Saturday, 7 p.m. Saturday, 7 p.m. Women's Tennis vs. Kansas State 
SPORTS 
ATA 

at Oklahoma City, OK 
Men's Tennis 
vs. Providence Saturday, 2 p.m. 
vs. Texas Saturday, 7 p.m. 
Sacurday, 2 p.m. 
GLANCE 



