~~------"""'~S!'!~i:=-..----or;;;,;::------~,..---•-""'•------•z..c.....--•--1111-•-•=-~--w1111--....."'"!'1---...~•~------=-..._=---•ic~•-----••••¦ 

Another knockout? 
Tuesday 
¦ Seem: races the new booksrnre on conve­

¦ Boxer Mike 1yson might be looking at more jail
nience, cost and more. 
MARCH 23,
time. Check out why.

Scene• 10~11 
Sports• 18 
1999 
THE 





The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 109 WWW. N D.EDU/-OBSERVER 

Jordan steps down in wake of clause decision 
is if' Father !Edward! Malloy adds
Professor hopes 
soxual orientation to tho non-dis­crimination clausn," said .lorctan.
resignation will 11 e said that if the addition was not ~oing-Lo lw rnconsidoretl, tlrnn cause Notre Dame it would not bo wi.SP for him to con­
tinue leaching ut tlie University. .Jordan. a professor at Notre
to reconsider its 
Danw sinrn tlw spring si>mnst.or of' l ·ty 1985, citod a !'acuity handbook
t
s ance on sexua l artidn that "the U11iv1irsity r(!lains the logal right to get rid of any employees whoso life docs not con­
By JOSHUA BOURGEIOS 
form with Catholic teaching." Thu 
slatenrnnt, he said, provides an 
unsafo employee environment.
,1\11 op!'nly gay prnfossor rnsignod 
"This atmosplrnre allows the
last Wt'1ik t.o tnadt al a univl'rsity University to selectively get rid ofmorP proll'C'liVI' of his snxualily in 
whomovcr they want or at least
light llf the• Uniwrsity's l'ailurn to threatnn thorn," .lordan said.
add St\XUal oriPntation to tlw 11011­
"Notre Dame
d is I' r i111 i11 at io 11 
made a counter­
daus<'. 
of'fer," said
\fork Jordan, a 
Dennis Moore,
LP11t1rPd mndit>val 'THIS ATMOSPHERE 
director of' Public
sltuliPS prof'ossor, 
ALLOWS THE Relations and
ac1·optPd a posi­Information. "This
tion Fmory UNIVERSITY TO SELECTIVELY 
was certainly not
Li nivp1·sitv offnrt-d 

GET RID OF WHOMEVER 
a case where we
him on March I I were not interest­
as tlw Aquinas THEY WANT OR AT LEAST 
ed." 
Chair in Catholic THREATEN THEM.' 
Moore also said
Studir\S al'tr\r 
that Jordan did
spt'aki11g to 
MAUK Jo/WAN ask if any further
l'atric·k (;<•ary. 
adion would be
dirnctor of' tl1P 
l'RON,ssnu, MFl)fE',!;11, STUIJ!HS takm1 Oil the non­\.IPdi«wal lnstitutti 
disc rim in at ion
and Mark Horlw. 
clause, but Moore
lll'/111 or lllP Coll<•gr! or Arts and 
added that the Board of Trustees'
l.l'tlPrs. about his futurn at Nolrn 
February docision to deny adding
lla1111•. 
sexual orientation to the non-dis­
"Usually, wlw11 a full profossor is criminalion clause was final.
offnn•d a position al anollrnr uni­"We've just gone through a two­
\'l'rsity, Notrn Dam1\ will makn a 
year process of looking into this.
r·ou11tN-of"for. In this case, I told There's no logical rnason to think 
C . >arv and HodH• not to waste Lhrir tinu: making a rou11ter-orfor lJ1•1·at1sP tlw only way I would slay see JORDAN / page 4 


The Observer/Joe Stark Professor Mark Jordan announced his resignation last week, attributing his decision to the University's refusal to add sexual orientation to the non-discrimination clause and an offer from Emory University. 
Liuzzi: Homosexuality 'is not a choice' 

By ERIN PIROUTEK 
News Writ.er 
All human beings are thn object of God's affection, including homosexuals, said Father Peter Liuzzi in last night's lecture "Being Gay and Catholic," sponsored by the Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Ne!lds. 
"I think our mission should bo not to change the Church, but to boar strong, strong wit­ness. to how wrong it is to­changC\ anyono," said Liuzzi. director of the Los Angeles J\rchdiocesn's Ofl'icn of Lesbian and (:ay l\linistry. 
"We only deserve love, affec­tion and respect," ho said. 
"Every human bning-, past, pn~sent and Lo come is made in God's image and likeness." 
lie explained the Church's posit.inn on homosexuality. 
l!omosexual orientation, he said, "is not a choice: thcre­l'ore, there can't be any sin in that." 
Liuzzi stated that the Church believes sexual relations are 
meant to be open to the possi­bility of now life. 
"There is a distinction bctwenn being homosexual and performing homosexual genital activities," hn said. 
"That point of' reference often becomes a point of departure l'or many lesbian and gay Catholics." 
Liuzzi, who has a masters in religious education from Loyola University and has 20 years of' cxpericncn with les­bian and ~ay ministry, dcscribod the wide range of' Catholic opinion on homosoxu­ality. 
Both liberals and cons1:rva­tives have valuablr. rolos in the Church, he nxplained. 
True liberals work to expand the mysteries of the f'aith. while conservatives work to preserve and protect the mys­teries of the faith, Im said. 
The two positions balance each other, which allows development without tho loss of sacred tradition, added 

see CATHOLIC/ page 4 
Renovation forces office 
relocations By JENNY BRADBURN News Writer 
Saint Mary's Haggar CoHnge Center has been undergoing rigorous renovn­t.ion this past wtrnk, as work· ors tear down tho walls that once housed student govern­ment offices. 
Tho irnprovenrnnt projnct currently underway inrludns large scale renovation of the third floor or Haggar Collegn Cnntor,. which will soon be transforn11id Into a r(1designcd student govcrn­mont centor and thfl 1rnw homo of the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs (OMA). 
Because small separate student govtirnment offices were not being utiliz(ld, of'li­
sce SMC I page 4 

1µ¦•----•--"==;;a•--'!!::----"""!'I----P.:::::::W,-.flil--."'!P~.....-:.%¥:a-'1111!______..~···.,....;J....--IIIIC..-•-•--------;::-,____.._-::;__, 
· page 2 

¦ INSIDE COLUMN 
Let Me Eat 
I am not angry. 1·am not violent. l am not belligerent. I am hungry. Let me eat. I have witnessed and bt>en a part of' many stupid operalions in my 1.ime, and I have con­
ceded their idiocy with a_-=====:::::;::::::­smile and a blush. But one stupid system I'll nevf'r figure out is why the dining hall can't be open all day? 
I can stomach the fact that I am not allowed a bag at grab 'n' go at North until I have dropped and fumbled my Joe Stark four side items onto the News l'horo Editor floor at least once. I can stomach the realignment of tho salad bars to confuse me and limit my salad consumption. I can even stomach the mysterious characters in head sets whispering secrets on the jello quality at South. What I can't stomach is any food between the stringent meal times. 
The other day I attempted what an-students have tried before -the patented North dining "sneak in after the gestapo locks the doors" move. I glidcd stcathily yet confidently to the remaining food items lefl for consumption. It took me no more than two minutes to procure a piece of bread, some cereal and a large banana. The banana was a tricky selection due. to the abundance of ridiculously brown bananas and, due to the intense concentration necessary to select the perfect oblong fruit, 1 failed to notice the predator in my midst ­the dining hall manager. 
"Ah, could I ask you when you clocked into lunch?" he asked. Frozen in my tracks, I knew only frustration could. come of this encounter. Possible ploys of bribery and libel raced through my brain. "Well, actually I just got here and thought ... ," I replied in an almost trembling tone. He cut me off before I could stutter out an excuse: 'Tm going to have to ask you to leave." 
What the jack-in-the-box is that all about? I am not claiming to understand fully the com­plicated financial budgeting scheme of the dining hall, but this is silly. Is it going to bust the proverbial bank to let the occasional late comer digest a piece of bread, some Honey Nut Cheerios and a banana? It costs $8 to partake in the buffet extravaganza of palat­able delights we call the dining hall. Multiplied by the 14 flexes this value is inflat­ed to a lofty $112 a week. 
Now, yes, 1 have been told that meal atten­dance is factored into the equation and really the dining hall charges for something like 10 meals a week, but I don't even eat that many. And it's not like I want the hot food -I just want to attempt to fight off starvation with the food that sits out all the time: The rock hard cereal. the germ infested fruit and the shotput-like loaves of bread. 
With their noses held high and their demeanor cold, the managers seem pompous in their attempt to be true "food service engi­neers." Why can't they just listen to the con­sumers -we the students -and serve some chicken wings every once in a while? Don't analyze lines. Don't rearrange the salad bars. Don't invest in head sets so that you can look like the secret service. Just serve different foods everyday that cater to the tastes of the students. 
Closing between the 1:30 p.m. "lockdown" time and the "grand poobah re-opening" at 
4:30 p.m . .is pointless. No profits will be lost on bread, cereal, and bananas. I mean, what could they be doing in there when the stu­dents aren't allowed in ... dear Lord. A new theme needs to be adopted. A theme of.ser­vice with a smile. Don't trv to shaft me. I'm a growing boy. Let me eat. · 
The views expressed in the Inside Column 

are those of the author and not necessarily 
those ofThe Obiwnier. 
¦ TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Scene  
• Christine Kraly  Mike Vanegas  
Brad Unriedt  Graphics  
Maureen Smithe  Score Hardy  
Sports  Production  
Bill Hart  John Pennacchio  
Viewpoint  Kerry Smilh  
Meghan Hurley  Lab Tech  
Mary Margaret Nus.sbaum  Liz Lang  

The Observer (USl'S 599 2-4000) is P"bli,hed Monday through Friday excep1 during exam and vaca1ion periods. The Observer is a member of rhc A>sociared ~>reMi. AII reproducti(Jn rights ar~ rt''icrvcd. 
Tuesday, March 23, 1999

The Observer• INSIDE 





utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Penn.alumnus found dead outside after apparent fall 
PHILADELPHIA 
terday morning for questioning. 
A 26-year-old university alumnus "There's nothing that leads me to was found dead early yesterday believo that this was anything but an morning behind the Phi Gamma Della accident at this time," said house. Philadelphia Police Lt. Michael 
The cause of death was not imme­Morrin, who is working on the inves­diately clear, though police said they tigation. suspect he fell from either a balcony Although the cause of Tobin's death or an outdoor staircase. remained undetermined yesterday as 
Michael Tobin, a FIJI brother who police waited for an autopsy report, was co-captain of the men's lacrosse chief Maureen Rush said there were police speculated that he fell, either 
· team and graduated in 1994 from the "large amounts of alcohol" in the from a balcony or down a steep flight College of Arts and Sciences, was house when police arrived. of stairs that lead to the basement pronounced dead at the scone by Toxicology tests that could come door of the FIJI house, where his Philadelphia police, who were the back as early as today will say body was found. first to respond to a 9-1-1 call made whether Tobin was inebriated at the "We're beginning to think that he 
time of his death. 
by a FIJI brother just after 6;30 a.m., didn't fall from a balcony, but we're police said. It was not immediately The Philadelphia Police not sure," Penn Vice President for 
Department's Homicide Division ­
clear how long Tobin had been dead Public Safety Tom Seamon said. "He 
which looks into all questionable or
before the police arrived. appears to have fallen. Where he fell Police believe Tobin was visiting suspicious deaths -is investigating from -whether from the top of the campus for an annual alumni pig the death in conjunction with the uni­steps [leading to where Tobin's body 
roast dinner at the fraternity house versity police. About 20 FIJI brothers was found] or a balcony, etc. -is not were taken to PPD headquarters yes-
Saturday night. University police clear yet" 
¦ UNIVERSITY Of NEBRASKA ¦ IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY Student to take finals before sentencing Gambling causes problems for students 
LINCOLN AMES 
University of Nebraska at Lancaster freshman Matthew Students can find themselves in serious financial prob­Dunagan will be able to complete his final exams before lems and face long-term consequences as a result of gam­he is sentenced for the murder of his father thanks to a bling, said Tahira Hira, Iowa State University assistant continuance granted last week. In December, Dunagan, vice provost for extension and professor of human devel­19, did not contest charges of manslaughter and the use opment and family studies. "Some students have had to of a weapon to commit a felony for the Sept. 30, 1997, drop out of school," she said. "And since they are often shooting of his father, John Dunagan. A Lancaster embarrassed about their gambling, there is a tendency to County District Cpurt Judge granted the defense's leave without explanation, which makes it difficult to have motion for a continuance Thursday, one day before accurate accounts of the numbers who have been in this Dunagan's scheduled sentencing. Jo_hn Stevens Berry, situation." Brad Lester, 21., junior in microbiology and one of Dunagan's lawyers, said this was a complicated religion at the University of lowa, has a bookie and said he matter and needed time for consideration, but he is probably addicted to gambling. He said Im has been refused to comment further. Deputy Lancaster County involved in gambling since he was 16 and doesn't know if attorney Jodi Nelson did not return several phone calls he could quit if he wanted to. ''I'd like to think that I could, Friday. This is the· second time the sentencing hearing but I've been doing it for so long now that I honestly don't has been moved back. know if I could or not," he said. 
¦ UNIVERSITY OF Mu::mGAN ¦ PRINCETON UN!VERSffV Students plan alcohol policy reform Anti:-sweatshop activists upset by deal 
ANN ARBOR PRINCETON, N.J. 
In the wake of several alcohol-related deaths on col-· Princeton University's decision last week to join the lege campuses nationwide, three members of the Fair Labor Association (FLA) -a White House-backed University of Michigan's Greek community are taking labor code for clothing manufacturers -is eliciting con­their own actions -independent of an official task force demnations from anti-sweatshop activists on campus -to reform the system's alcohol policy. Koonal Gandhi, and around the country. The announcement that the a junior in Chi Phi fraternity; Molly Norton, a sopho­University will join FLA marked the culmination of more in Kappa Kappa Gamma sorority; and Brian Reich, months of negotiations between vice president for public a sophomore also in Chi Phi, have co-authored propos­affairs Bob Durkee, clothing industry officials, human als for internal reforms to the lnterfraternity Council rights groups and other Ivy League administrators. ,By and Panhellenic alcohol policies. Reich said the students signing on to the code along with 16 other colleges and have proposed reforms separately from the task force universities across the nation -including all seven because they fear University intervention has influenced other Ivy League schools -the university hopes to the task force reforms. "We want to raise more aware­guarantee that clothing bearing the Princ11ton label is ness. We want to self-regulate rather than have the not manufactured in sweatshops. But yesterday, propo­administration forcing us," Gandhi said. "We all know it nents of a strong anti-sweatshop code said the FLA does 
not go far enough. 
¦ NATIONAL WEATHER 

...... 
C 1999 AccuWeather, Inc.  COLO  WARM  STATIONARY  
PfeJSurt: ® © El .' High Low Showers Rain Via Assoi;:iaktd Pffl5S  ~ T~storms  ..Flurrlea  5'.z] Snow  ~ Ice  
Atlanta Baltimore Baton Rouge Boston Chicago ·  71 50 79 50 48  42 29 51 33 31  Cincinnati Des Moines Honolulu Houston Indianapolis  52 52 83 75 45  30 39 72 58 31  Los Angeles Miami Philadelphia St Louis Vermillion  63 80 51 48 52  52 61 30 37 24  

needed to happen." 
¦ SOUTH Brno WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
., ,.,........................................ H 
i~,.....,. ,.,, 
L 
Tuesday ~50 30 WednesdayQ 45 29 
·:·  ·:·  
Thursday  ~  42 29  
Friday  ~(47 26  
Sat1:1rday  .-,~ 56 31  

{}°'_,,\jt,r,...,.,~/'\,;,r' 
45~\~p~Q ~ m 8 

Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pr. Claudy Cloudy Via Assoc,ated Pr11ss Grar:lhicsNet 
luesday, March B, 1999 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS ____ --------~ page 3 
Alum contributes to student athletics 
Special 10 The Ob,crv~r 

Mr. and Mrs. Martin J\lhin, .Jr.. of' Grand llapids, Mich., 
ro11lriht1LPd $500,000 Lo Uin llnivt~rsity as a charitabln 
l"<'lll:linrlPI' trust lo support programs in l.lw ,office of' 
i\cadl'mic' SPrvicns l'or Studnnt-J\thldes. 
"WP am grallll'11l for this grnrnrous gill, which indicatos that S111· and t\larly i\llnn both sham in and f!XPtnplify Nolr(• l)anw's nnthusiasm f'or athletic and scholarly a.chiiivnmrnll," said Univnrsity prnsidPnl Father hdward Malloy. 
J\ liJ:iX Nol.rt• IJ,lllH\ 1tl11m1111s and currnnt prnsidont of' tlw U11iv1•rsity's Mrnwgrnm Club. Allon rocnntly rctired as a snnior vief' prPsiclr·nt nf Old Konl Financial Corporation, wlrnrP l11• conlirrnos lo sorvns as a consultant.· 
IIr• was rncPntlv induclt1d into th() American Bankers t\ssociation's Ba~1h Marknting llall of Fume and also s1•rv1•s as chairman of tlw hoard of trustPes nf the Cerald It Ford f."oundation and as vicu chairman or the Aquinas Collngii board. 
i\ll!'n, who was manag<•r for tlin f'ootliall Learn during his tmd.-rgracluatn y,,ars, has benn a Notro Dame bcne­fiu:t.or l"or many yPars and has hmm an annual guest ler,­t11 rP r i11 !ltP lilliv1•rsity's Coffngp of' BusinPss Administration. 
In addition lo his Monogram Club prnsidnncy, he is a lll('lllhnr of' Notrn Danrn's /\tlileti(; J\dvisory Committee, tJm Sorin Sof'.iety and tlw Badin c;uild 11,~ also has 1,P,JpPd !Paci two Nolr<' Damn fund raising campaigns in the Grand Hapicls arPa. 
AIIPn, a rt>l"ipiPnt. nf Ow Notre Dame Fxmnplar ;\ward in 11)1)7. has thrnP childr<'ll, orw of whom gracluatPd from Llw llniv<•rsity in 1988, with his wifo, Su<i. 

Save the Earth. Please recycle The Observer. 
A'Second' look at comedy 
Members of the 
i mprov comedy 
troop Second 
City traveled 
from Chicago to 
perform in 
Washington Hall 
Monday. 
Members of the 
group performed 
improvisation 
cornedy acts, at 
times influenced 
by audience par~ 
ticipation. 
SC'cond City, a famous• comedy club in Chicago, was home to famous comedians like John Candy. Many of the club's other comedians have gone onto fame in shows like "Saturday Night Live.'' 


The Notre Dame Council on International Business Development Presents the 10th Anniversary... 


page~ The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 23, 1999 
dents involved in clubs associ­benefits to same-sex partners. and lesbian professors who ated with the OMA . Jordan, who writes on ques­have to suffer under this lack

SMC Jordan 
"Thev felt them was no tions of homosexuality and of support. It's very damag­
continued from page 1 space on campus that they continued from page 1 Catholicism, said he is sad to ing," he said. 
could call their uwn, and the leave Notre Dame. Ile said that He said he hopes his resigna­rials decided one large rentral current office did not accom­it's going to change. The he is leaving behind his friends tion will urge Notre Dame to office and meeting room would modate meetings," said Trustees, the Fellows, and the and the life he has become reconsider its stance on the best accommodate student Oropeza. Officers all looked into it and accustomed to over the years. non-discrimination clause, or leaders. Linda Timm, vice president came to the same conclusion," "It's hard for students to at least lead to a resolution 
Director of Student Activities for Student Affairs, said that said Moore. leave here after four years ... between the University's Girnrgeanna Rosenbush said the decision to increase space Jordan placed faith in the imagine being here for 14 administration and the gay 
the new offices were designed, available~ for multicultural Hoard or Trustres, Board of years and think about how communitv. "with the hope that by creat­affairs corresponds with the Fellows and the University offi­Father David Garrick, a celi­ing one combined workspace increase in workload and staff. cers to make the decision that bate gay priest and former will help with communication "As the program needs have would provide the protection professor of communication and interaction betwenn tlH• expanded, it became clear we and job security to gay and les­'IFEEL SADNESS FOR THE and theater, expressed similar various boards and executive needed to respond," she said. bian professors at the GAY AND LESBIAN sentiments upon his rnsigna­leaders." The renovations are sched­University. tion in March 1998. Garrick
PROFES.50RS WHO HAVE TO 

The primary rPason for the uler! to be completed within "T thought that the non-dis­claimed that, after learning of' renovations was to create a the next few weeks and OMA crimination clause might pass. SUFFER UNDER THIS LACK OF his sexual orientation, the new space for OMA, which hopes to Le relocated to the I was disappointed to see that SUPPORT. Ir's VERY University suspended his 
was previously located Le renovated space by April 6. it did not, but l cannot stav duties at the Basilica. 
Mans Hall. In light of the recent here if a [sexual orientation] DAMAGING.' Jordan also expressed his "The space is mut;h needed Performa Consulting Group non-discrimination clause docs hopes for Notre Dame's future. as there are six students, a recommendations that Haggar not exist. Maybe. I'll comp "If you are going to be a 
MARK J OIUJAN

secretary, and myself current­be converted into a conference back if the University ever Catholic university, I would 
PIWFES'SOI! OF MHDIEVAL STUDIES

ly 'sharing' one small office," center, Timm stressed that the adds it," said Jordan. hope that you would want to said director of \1ulticultural implementation of the facili­HA. added that Emory, unlikr be a leading, imaginative Affairs Maria Oropeza. ties master planning process Notre Dame, will be a better hard it would be," he said. "My Catholic university," he said. 
OMA is moving to the south will take place over several place for him because the whole academic life has been "I would like to see Notre wing of Haggar on the third vears. school has not had a two-vear about r.atholicism. It's hard to Dame be prophetic and not noor, where space will be con­• "The needs of the Office of debate over sexual discrimina­leave such a Catholic institu­reactive in the matter of' sexu­verted into offices for a direc­Multicultural Affairs were tion like Notre Dame. tion for Emory." ality. It is a heated debate and tor, assistant director and immediate," Timm said. "The According to Jordan, Emory Hownver. Jordan sympa­we just don't know exactly how secretary, a lounge and a projected cost of the project is University includes sexual ori­thizes with the faculty he is the Holy Spirit wants us to act. work area. The creation of a not so great as to negate the entation in its non-discrimina­leaving behind. · Rut we must at least net on louuge was the idea of the stu-decision to move ahead now." tion clause and offors health "J feel sadness for the gay justice for all people." 
keep in mind Christ's call for 1ious because I'm an ou(sider," reconciliation. he said.


Catholic 
"All peop}e are one -differ­"My understanding is that ences, real or imagined, are there is tremendous good will
continued from page 1 
illusions," he .said. on the part of the University Liuzzi. He emphasized that Liuzzi went on to answer toward lesbian and gay people. positions can be too extreme, questions from the audience, "This is a Catholic university. however. addressing topics such as the The University has to also deal 
"We have a tremendous rift, exclusion of sexual orientation with the teachings and doc­nlal and that's going to rip the from the University's non-dis­h'ines of the Catholic Church. Church apart. You can go so crimination clause. It could never compromise far from the center that you're 
Liuzzi expressed tentative · that," Liuzzi said. lo never going to get back," he support for the University's Liuzzi 's book, "With said. action. Listening Hearts" will be pub­Liuzzi urged everyone to "I feel I want to be very cau-lished soon. 
WHAT CAN I DO WITH A DEGREE IN MATHEMATICS? 
Many career opportunities are available to students with degrees in matheI?atics. The training and analytical skills acquired in studying mathematics are precisely what many companies and professional schools look for. Here are some of the careers pursued by recent Notre Dame graduates in mathematics: 
• 
Actuarial Positions in the Insurance Industry 

• 
Computer Programming and Systems Analysis 

• 
Management Consulting 

• 
Teaching at All Levels 

• 
Post-graduate Study in Business Administration, Computer Science, Engineering, Law, Mathematics, Medicine, Music 


For information about majoring in maf.1ematics contact Prof. Dennis Snow (sncw .1©nd. edu), Department of Mathematics, room 203 CCMB, or come to the 

Spotlight Program for Mathematics Tuesday, March 23, 7-8 P.M. Room 226 CCMB 

Tuesday, March 23, 1999 COMPILED PROM THE OBSfiWER WJRE SERVJCES page 5 

Mother sues son for lotto 
winnings, settles 
HIZABETII. N.J. 

i\ son who was stwd hv his own motlwr al'tPr lw n-f'us(•cl to shan• ,t $2. I :i million lot­L('ry ja,kpot sdllml on Monday by agrc(\ing to giw lwr 1warly a quart,1r of th(i prizn, his lawyer said. Phyllis KlingnlJicl and hPr son. Mii'hanl Kli11gnlliPL Stdllod on the day tlw cast• was to go lo trial. sairl Iris attorney, IIPnry Hzl'miPnit•wski. Klingcbi!\I claimed slrn and lwr son had a dncadn-old agreement to buy lotl!·ry tick1>ts togntlwr and shal'f' any prizPs. 1-'.ach month. slw sont him $20, while lw also put in $20. to buy 40 lot.wry tickets. In 11)') I, tlwy split a $500 prize. But wh<'n he wo11 a I1JcJ7 drawing, Klingnhid claimnd that hP had bought thP tif'kN 011 his own and did nut lrnvP to slrnr<' tlw winnin'gs with his 111otl11•r. Kling.-lJiPI sund f'or half'. Tlw St!tllo­111,·nl giws lwr 22.:i rwrc(•llf. Hz1•micni<•wski said. 
Wu-Tang Clan rapper faces drug charges 
NEW YORK 

TroublP-pronP rappPI' ODB was arrested \londay. af'tPr polic11 all1igPdly found thren ~mall rnnLairwrs of' crark wraino on him dur­ing a lral'lk stop in Brooklyn. Tim Wu-Tang Clan rappPr, whosP rnal nanw is Bussell .ln111•s. was stoppncl by officers who saw a I ')lJh HangP Hovnr without licm1se platris. dou­hl<•-parkt>d. Tim drivPr did not hav11 a licensn or n•gistralion, policn said. When Jones, 30. gave his name. a rncord chnck rnvealnd h11 had a suspnndf'd licensn and was wanted for f'ailurn lo pay child support -leading to a search that turnml up thn drugs, Lt. Dennis Cirillo said ..lorrns was in custody awaiting arraignnwnt on misd1~moanor drug charges. llis attonrny, Peter Frankcll. did not irnmecli­atl'ly rnlurn calls for cmmncnt. 
Farmers kill pigs to fight deadly virus 
Kl.JALA LUMPCH, Malaysia 

l!og farmers in Malaysia grew impatient Monday with a gowrnmcnt slaughlnr of thou­sands of' pigs to halt the spread of a deadly virns, and startNI dubbing to death or bury­i11g alivP thnir own animals, witnesses said. l•:xpl'rts from thn Atlanta-based Centers for llisPaS<' Control and Prevention were headed Lo tho Soutlwast Asian nation to set up an ol'lic'ci and laboratory lo investigate the virus, whif'h is blamod for more than 50 deaths. SoldiC'rs c:ontillth'd to shoot thousands of pigs for tlw third day in an Prt'orl to flXlerminate animals suspnctnd ol' carrying .Japanese Pllc,~phalitis. The virus, which attacks the hrain and causns high fnvnr, vomiting and coma, is transmitted from pigs to humans by llw Culi~x mosquito. 

ow 
AMl-:X: 
717.36


]ONES 
+5.49 Nasdaq:
9890.51 

2395.94 -25.33 
D 
NYSF: 
6I0.49 -0.19 S&P 500; 1297.01 
Composite
-2.28 

Volume; 
-13.04 823,924,000 VOLUME LEADERS 
l-PMJ'ANY HCKI H 'nl l"HAN<iF 
llfl.l \0\H'lllllt DI 11 ,',,HQ ,2.l? 37 HH ,\M!.il. ONI.INI. \Ul +tUU +lll.50 129.n ll\ l·!l Ji.It t'Olil' ll"il-.,J\J ·!l.1.2 3038 l"OKF \Y'ilTM"i I~ f()l(I· +11,94 +l.t,q 11-H:ill ! \lMl'M.)t ()Mfl\111-.11 t "Jlll -1.0:t .u.so .m.2s \.11( ltO'.'iOll"U,)lll' MSFJ +U,95 +1.62. 17Z.HI M! PIAONI t,RU!/1' U\40 -tl2.Jti +1.7~ 68 so l.\;/U.t·t)ffl• IN I<. -:l.2n -U8 115.12 tHi.Al ll.UJkl' nan. -1.:1-.) -(U7 l7.19 111!0,\IH'Al"I cmt HC"1d' ....{7.0(1 dUO 116,0 
I 
¦ YUGOSLAVIA 


AFP Photo 
An ethnic Albanian refugee woman holds her child in her arms Monday in Glogovac, a town 20 kilometers south of Pristina. Fighting in the Drenic hills in central Kosovo has driven 25,000 people from their homes. An aid worker warned that a "real human­itarian disaster" was in the making. Most of the refugees from the Drenica area left for Glogovac or for northern regions in Kosovo . 




Diplomats call for unity in Kosovo 
AssOCII\TED PHESS But in Moscow, Hussian Prime Minister Yevgcny Primakov again urged the United States and its allies not to unleash BELGRADE airstrikes against Yugoslavia. 
With NATO missiles and warplanes poised to strike, a U.S. "We are categorically against the use of force against envoy began a last bid today to persuade Yugoslavia's presi­Yugoslavia," Primakov told reporters a day bcf'orn he was to dent to accept a Kosovo peace plan and the thousands of for­head to Washington for meetings with Clinton. "We believP eign troops that would enforce it. that political levers to influence the situation are far from 
Otherwise, American envoy Richard llolbrooke said, "we being exhausted yet." arr. on the brink of military action.» In the troubled province itsell', lighting raged Monday 
llolbrooke held four hours of talks with President Slobodan between government forces and the rebel Kosovo Libr.ration Milosevic on Monday evening. He and the American envoy for Army in the northern and central parts or the province. Kosovo, Christopher Hill, then returned to the U.S. Embassy, Several villages were ablaze and thnre were unconfirmed diplomatic sources said, presumably to report by telephone to reports of mass killings near the town of Srbica. Washington. · Ethnic Albanians make up 90 percent of the 2 million 
It was not clear if the talks had concluded for the night. inhabitants of Kosovo, a province of Serbia, Yugoslavia's 
In a brief report that gave no indication of any break­main republic. Fighting broke out last year al'tnr Milosnvic through, Serbian television said Milosevic told Holbrooke that cracked down on ethnic Albanian separatists. "anybody who tries to impose a solution by force will have to Since then, more than 2,000 people have b,~en killnd and face responsibility for moves against a peaceful policy and for hundreds of thousands have been lled their homes. At least consequences that may occur." 25,000 ethnic Albanians have llc:d since Saturday, U.N. olli­
In Washington, President Clinton said there is "strong cials said. unity" among the United States and NATO allies to launch A second round of peace talks in France f'ailc1d last weiik punitive air raids unless the Serbs agree to a settlement. after Serbs refusr.d to sign a U .S.-backed peace accord that 
"We all agrefl we cannot allow President Milosevic to con­gives the ethnic Albanians substantial autonomy. The plan tinue the aggression with impunity," Clinton said. also calls for 28,000 NATO troops. 
. -~ --­

KevQl'l{i~ll. Jt,Wfesenting himself 
AssoCJATSP PR~S in:gbi:SJ;a,sf.JudgijJessica Cooper asked candidates whether they knew :ag;:~.fld, llfid shtrhrlefly dismi.ssod anyone who had suffore<l a tM·mlnal PONTIAC; Mich:. thej11ry to ask.Kevorkian what he illnoss, and several people worll dis­
Acti11ra.s hI~ PJVJ'.l ,~~er; pr.}ac'I( W,8'.S g ttj·~-ay. ,, missed after saying they had strong Kevorkian went (Jn .tda1 <in murder K i 'M,said:l:i.e wanted to tell opinions about the case. charges forth~ .OtAt tltnf't011lY -'-Jurors hA;!h~~:th~ duty tokiH and fn his opening statemont, thisJirn~.f9ruyi~potaped ahi~itle,. ·~~~i,Ilp;~q)'fgulpa.hle than a.n cxe­Skrzynski told tho jury that shown on "60,Minl.ltes"...,... andtold•ll• cutione:r or,asolqier. ·. · . Kevorkian is not above the law. 
"Begin to fo('.US on what .lack

j urr th~t lfk~)tfl e~e.t:(1Jl1.1p1r; M~4s:: >_•.·.·..... ~Wh·.., ·.·~t_l:~_:_f:l.s_J·ry····.1p_ig_ t.(.).·p.r.ove her.e_ ls
__ ..
merely oa,rrying QUkllis pr,1fl'ls~iopa.L .tl1at.IAUdri,Lhave the mtent to kill, Kevorkian does, and what Jack duty. ·· · , , ..· ·.· J1i~t0•as·t~(l'exf¢utionei doesn't," Kevorkian says, and what you will 
Kevorkian; iv4({hJl;.ged . a~~r .CBS; ~ev<lr;~•~* $(!,id; ''Hjs I.lltbht · is•to dQ . see is a man breaking the law," the aired the leih.al,,injection f)'(a,))atient, :fliS d.uw,;Aecaufi>e he may despise prosecutor said. "Jack Kovurkian wit,h Lou qe~rig'~; ~~~t!;ll;S~ ~~d ~ll'e,, :w,~~r~~ ts•:~~•~rBut he's forced to killed Tom Youk, and .lack retirod pat1Jqlvghit,d.arect,prq~ecu-,.·• .. qoJt,tiJ1:~~d),O~it}9n.» ..· .· Kevorkian does not have the right to tors to do somethi:ngiaboJ:Jt it;. i . • .Eey.~li(lf'/K-O\'Ol'ldan won the right to . kill." 
Kevorkian said •. h1·.hhro11'entng •. ·. r~pr~s,enthitn~etfd~spitc tho misgiv­By his own count, Knvorkian has stateinent tbat he actedvtit ..o:r C()JU•. ·:·•'ings:<JftJn~ ju~gf}, who asked hhn: taken part in more Urnn J30 suicidtis pass,oll· for 5Z~yoar--0ld Thomas "Oo }'.f,ll1ill)Jd~rsta,ndyou could spend sinl'.l) 1990. Ht1 lws boPn tried four Youk. "To have a prime, 'YQU need a' .t)Jq re~t:oftQ,Ut B.t'e Jn prison?,''. times on assisted suicide charges, vidous will and a Vicious aC:C' ,he-,"'I;her.e:s nc(much Qf it'left:" the with three acquittals and one mistri• 
said. ..-......_.· .•.. · .·••··· ··... . · •> 0.· > 70;;.ytja · Kevorkian said. al. 
Pi.;oser..vtor Jo!w Slq:z~µski. 91))9cl,~ '. ';\f'teJ> . ·. . lfug;, l2 Jurors. and two Kevorkian will bo allowed to. con­ed, .contending that Kev?rkia.11,wa~ · alt~r111).t(}s 9ulc,\dy.were se}p,.cted out sult with lawyers David Gorosh and atgulng la~:ta1,}iet:than:.surprpµf~,. ·•of'.a:p:~otqt''.&Q}people; TM .jUdge Lisa Dwyer during this trial. 

page 6 The Observer• NEWS Tuesday, March 23, 1999 
Fornier hostage-···· sues Iran< 
Associated 1'ms 
WASHINGTON 

Eormer twst:age {fe,r,J,'y;; Anderson.J:'iled a $100 millli.>n, laWstift against lra'h '6tJ,'· Monday for allegedly finmc~t ,ini ,aW;l directi~ ·the Wrtst~10 Ists who kept him sM~kl(,l~ 
and hlindfolde1::l for rie~'Jyfj seyenye~rs> .· , ·..· < r,J y
Anderson, form1~r chYef' Middle East cdrrespondMitL for The Associated Press, was , taken captive in Be.frut,: Lebanon. on, March t6, 1965,t as he ;returned from a ,morn-. ing tennis game. 
His Hezbollah captors· shut•· tlod Anderson between stuffy · rooms. beat and berated him. and taunted him with the false hope of release, his law-.. suit said. 
"During thf' entire period of his captivity, Anderson saw tho sun once," the suit said. 
Anderson became so depressed he banged hh, head against a wall until he. bled and continued to suffer problems related to depres­sion after his release in December 1991. the suit said. He and his family asked for $100 million compensation plus unspecified punitive damages. 
"The Islamic Republic of 
Iran provides material sup­
port and resources" to 
Hezbollah, and provided lhe 
group with "funding, direc­
tion and training for its ter­
rorist activities in Lebanon," 
the suit alleged. 
The suit in U.S. District 
Court in Washington is simi­
lar to claims filed by other 
Americans held hostage in 
Lebanon during the 1980s. 
Iran has not paid damages 
awarded to other hostages, 
nor to the family of an 
American student killed in a 
bus bombing in Israel. 
Iran denies it sponsored 
llezbollah and claims 
American courts have no 
power over foreign countries. 
¦ VIETNAM 
TV show finds MIAs' 
•
remains 
Associated Press 
HANOI. Vietnam 
Callers to a tPle\'ision shmv called "In Searrh of Comrad1!s in Arms" havP hPlped find Urn n•mains of' 300 Vietnamese missing sinc:c thP Vietnam War. 
Col. Chi Phan, head of' telc­vi s i 011 programming f'or the army, said Monday the remains wern located by offi­cials basnd on 4,000 tips from viewers. 
Phan said tlrn program, which began airing in 1993, runs 10 times a week. 
Each episode of the program is I1vc minutes long and gives th11 names, birth dates and pictures of missing lighters. 
The Vietnam War ended in 1975, hut some 300,000 Vietnamese soldiers remain unaccounted for. 
About 2,000 Arrn,ricans are still listed as MIA in Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia. 


New report praises Pentagon research efforts 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Congressional investigators credited the Pentagon with significant progress in han­dling Gulf War illness issues but cited flaws in its reporting of some cases. 
A report by the General
· 

Accounting Office (GAO) says the Office of the Special Assistant for Gulf War Illnesses, established in 19%, has cleared a backlog of 1,200 veterans' inquiries and is deal­ing with thousands of others. 
The Defense Department "has made progress in carry­ing out its mandate to compre­hensively address Gulf War ill­nesses-related issues." said the report requested by Hep. Lane Evans of Illinois. ranking Democrat on the House Veterans Affairs Committee. 
The G/\O, which does non­partisan research and investi­gation for Congress, said the Pentagon has committf'd a sig­nificant increase in resources toward investigating the com­plaints of Gulf War veterans. 
The government acknowl­edges that illnesses suffered by thousands of veterans are real, but years of study have not come up with clear diag­noses or clear evidence of causes. 
About 100,000 of the 700,000 American men and women who served in the Persian Gulf in 1991 say thP-y are sick. and many believe their illness is related to expo­sure to Iraqi chemical or bio­logical warfare agents. 
The new assessment of the Pentagon's handling of the issue notes that in 1996 the now-defunct Persian Gulf Illnesses Investigation Team operated with a staff of 12 and a budget of $4.1 million and reported to an assistant secre­tary for health. 
The new office that reports In looking at six cases directly to the deputy secre­reviewed by the Gulf War tary of defense has a staff of office, the GAO said three of 200 and a budget of $29.4 mil­them were flawed by proce­lion. dural. investigative or report-
IN LOOKING AT SIX CASES REVIEWED BY THE GULF WAR omcE, THE GENERAL ACCOUNTING OmCE SAID THREE OF THEM WERE FLAWED BY PROCEDURAL, INVESTIGATE OR 
REPORTING PROBLEMS. 

The report credits the new ing problems. office with convincing the Despite the weaknesses. Pentagon to require rcvi~w of however, GAO investigators each military service's deplet­agreed with the Pentagon's ed uranium training pro­conclusions in all but one case. grams. In that one, it said the possi-
If you need to do some catching up or want to get a jump on fall, summer classes at Holy Cross College may be just the ticket. Choose one or both sessions, each offering a wide variety of quality general education courses. And pay our summer tuition rate of just $170 per credit hour. 
Take advantage of exceptionally small classes, a dedicated and caring faculty, and our convenient location just to the west of the University of Notre Dame campus. Credit earned is transferable. And on-campus student housing is available. 
You'll enjoy summer activities even more, knowing that you're also getting ahead in your studies. Write or call Holy Cross College today. Applications for Summer Sessions I and II, as well as for the 1999 Fall Semester, are now being accepted. 
Session I -May I 7 to June 24 
bility of exposure to chemical agents should be raised from "unlikely" to "indeterminate" because of information over­looked by investigators. 
In all cases. flaws appeared to be relatively minor. 
Some were the result of Pentagon investigators not taking advantage of available government databases on the health of thousands of Gulf War veterans. the report said. 
It also noted that the Gulf War illnesses office has spon­sored 18 town hall meetings with the public and veterans around the country and had appeared at 41 national veter­ans conventions to pursue its mission of pursuing com­plaints and protecting U.S. service members. 
HOLY CROSS 
*COLLEGE 
Office of Admissions 
P.O. Box 308 • Notre Dame, IN 46556

Session II -June 28 to August 5 
(219) 239-8400, ext 22 • Fax (2 I9) 233-7427 e-mail: vduke@hcc-nd.edu 



The Observer• NATIONAL NEWS page 7 


New nuclear waste site to open 
J\ssociatcd l'l'l'ss ers of so-called transuranit W1PP should noL be allowed to 
wasln from Los Alamos, also in open becnusn of a 1992 injunr­
WASIIINCTON Now Mexico, will be shipped by tion, saying that injunction 
ThP Energy Departm1rnt, special trucks and placed in a applied only to the facility's gHtling th<' go-ahead l'rnm a vault 2,000 f'et1I b11low the sur­''test phase." _which long hrid fodnral Judgo, said Monday it face. whoro it cvcutuallv will concludod. · will send its first shipment of be encased in surronndir1g salt . "WIPP is ready to open," ra.dioadivc• wastn to a disposal beds. Tho waste, left over from Richurdson told a Senate hear· sil.1'. in Nmv Mnxico this w,wk. the government nuclcrnr ing last wcAk. He said he was 
Thn slat(\ anti four Pnviron-weapons program. will remain "troubled and dismayed" by 11in111al ~roups had sought to radioactive for hundre~s of the stute l)epartment -of hlot'k thn sltipmnnts. but U.S. y<'arc;. Environment's HJack of interest District .ludg" .lohn Garrntl Penn said tho state and other in certifying" the facility, after l'onn rnf11s1:d i'vlonday to issue plaintiffs. who a:;kell for an the federal Environmental an injunction postponing the injunction to rlnlay the ship­Protrction Agnnry gavr its shiprrwnls. Hn said tho fadlity ments, bad "failed to demon­approval last yoar. was 1<1gally l're11 lo an:(1pt strate thai they will suffer Penn's decision applies only wastn. irreparahli~ injury" if the ship­to thr tbs Alamos waste that 
Tlw li1wrgy D1)parL1rwnt gaw men ts wore allowed to pt·o­has been ready for shipment no! icn lo Now Mexico this cccd. Nor had the plaintiffs for months. But the Energy month I.hat it would brgin ship­shown a likfdihood they would Df'pai•tment hopes the court ping 36 containers of highly surcnotl in blocking the opon-nction will lead to other ship~ rndioai:livo wast,: l'rnm its ments from the govern­I os /\larnos National nwnt's ,;veapons facilities. 1.nborat.orv 10 l1111 Waslc Them are 42 contuiners or
THE WASTE, I.EFT OVER FROM 
lsola1ion Pilot PlanL (WIPPJ transuranic wastr awaiting 1war Curlsbatl. N.r-.t.. pend-movement from another
THE GOVERNMENT NUCLEAR 
ing a court ruling. WEAPONS PROGRAM, WU.L REMAIN Energy l)epartmenl facilil.y
·•wi-ar" making l'orrrwl in Idaho and the govern•iwti l'icatio11 to ttw appro-RADIOACTIVE FOR HUNDREDS OF mont has promised to begin printe parties that non• YEARS. their r<:lmovnl by lht> end of mix1-1d waste will br. April. 
shippr.d from Los Alamos ln all, the government has National Laboratory to clearance to put as much as WI l'l' starling this week," 6.2 million cubic feet of Energy S0.cretary Bill ing of WlPP. transuranic waste into WIPP. Bi<'harclson said in a statement The state had argued that no Currently there is an inventory al"tnr l'f'lln's rnling. "It is our shipments should be allowed to of about 2.3 million cubic feet int1>ntion to ship the first load procood until tho stato issues a of such waste at 20 Enorgy_ ... on Thursday." hazardous waste permit for the Department facilities. · 
There was 1w immediate disposal l'acility. Such a permit Transuranic waste is cont.a• rnsponse from New Mexico is oxpectod to be issuod by the minated material left over from officials. State Attorney end of the year, state officials decades of weapons research, (.;eneral Patricia Madrid was had ari,,rued at a court hearing production a.Qd storage. · en mute to Washington for a March 12. It consists generally of pr-o-. conforenr.e. Iler office in Santa But the Energy Department tective clothing, tools; equip• Fo had no immediate com­has maintained that the 36 ment, soils and sludge that h1¥J rnnnt. drums held at Los Alamos con­been contaminated With pluto­
ll011 Hancock, a lawyer for tained "non-mixed" radioactive nium and other highly radio;to:, th!' Soulhw1!sl Research and waste, or waste that while tive elements. · lnformntio11 Center, one of the radioactive does not contain By law, WlPP cannot be used grours Orn! sought t.111-1 injunc­toxic chrmicals that fall under to store used -reactor fuel, 
tion, said Urn group had "not fcdoral or state hazardous which is even more raclioac­giw11 up" and would see if an waste laws. tive. The government is trying appeal or Penn's decision was Ptrnn agreed with the depart­to determine whether that possiblo. ment. The judgo also rejected waste can be buried at Yucca 
Short of that. tho 36 contain-arguments by the state that the Mountain in Nevada. ---· 
Two more found dead from recent avalanche 
Associated Press The avalanclw nxtendccl 1rnar­
ly two lllilcs across tlw l'ar.c ol' a 
TUHNAGAJN PASS, Alaska mountain high in T11rnagain 

Volunteers with 10-foot poles Pass, a popular rncrnatio11 area poked the snow '.vlonday and in tlw Chugach National h,rnst rrcovernd two moni bodies l'rnm about 55 mil(•s soutlwast ol' an avalanche that swopt Anchorage. through a popular snowmobil-It was llw sPcond of two slidPs ing spot thr day hnf'oro. raising that oc(·urrl'd about 20 lllinutns the dtrnth toll to four. apart. 
At least six otlrnr 1moplu worn Tlw avalandws may havP missing and l'Par1:d dnad. hn1rn trigg1·rnd by "higi1mark­
Tlm :m-fnot wave of powdnry ing." a conlost. in which snow-snow roared down Uw moun-mobil"rs driw straight uphill l.o lainside Sunday aftnrrnmn whiln si:P who ran lllltkl' tlw high1~st. hundreds or" snowmohilrHs mark on tlw mot111t.ain. said enjoyml tempcraturos in tho 40s Greg Wilkinson. a spokns111a11 and bright sunshine. for tlrn Alaska Stat1· Trnop11rs. 
Two snowmohilnrs WPro llowpvor. Dan llotuihan. found dead shortly after thn cJrnirman of' t.hn Alaska slide and two m1m· w1·re discov-Mountain l{csr.u11 c;roup, said cned on Mondav. ., t.lrnrP W!'l'I' probably otlwr c.aus-
Statc Troop1ir Paul Burke said ns. including tlw warm wnuthi•r six others wcrn thought to Im and oighL l'uPl ol' f'rnsh snow that missing. based on calls from had fallen in tlw past wnPk. p11opk reporLing that friends, Thn National WPat.lwr S11rvicP relatives and co·workcrs hadn't and tlrn U.S. l•ornst SPrvicn returned from snowmobiling in issued warnings last \VPPk that the area. lrnavy snow l'ollownd by high 
Burke asknd tho military for tempPraturns had rai!-wd tlrn 200 peopln to help in the dangor of'snowslidns. search. Tim l'irst slide, which brokn 
"Thore's no tried-and-true loose around 4 p.m., f'illnd a way of' doing this," Burke said. ravine and scatl1m;d some of' "The reality is we may not find tlrn hundrnds of' snowmohilnrs anybody until spring. That's not who wern driving in tlw arna. a good w~y to .?o it, but that's The larger avalanche lrngan where we re at. at the top of a 3,000-foot ridgn. 
Thn avalanclrn buried a grove Witnesses described a wall of of 10-foot-high spruce trees. snow that sounded like a train and Burke said he fears some and a wind blast that drove icy victims may be entangled in the particles into their faces. uprooted trees. "I watched a guy halfway up 
Troopers also were analyzing the mountain get his machinn a videotape taken by an eyewit-stuck, and as Im was digging it ness to try to pinpoint where out the slidn broke," said Brian some victims may be buried. Stewart, who was on his snow­The video shows several snow-machine wlrnn tlrn slid1\ tumbled mobilers trying to outrun a part down the ridgc1. of the slide. They disappear in "A 30-foot wall of snow hit smoky clouds and aren't seen him and the machi1w. I le llnw again. up in the air." 
Nearly 85 volunteers moved Stewart said Im saw thrnn shoulder-to-shoulder with the other riders buried while lw poles Monday, probing for bod-was speeding away. ies in areas where witnesses Glenn Swan, president of the had reported seeing snowmobil-Anchorage Snowmachine Club, ers disappear or where said highmarking is strongly machines had been discovered. discourag!ld. 
Dogs trained to sniff out "Wcwarnallof'ourpcoplcat buried bodies accompanied meetings to shy away from stuff searchers. like that," Swan said. 

•To Aft,-.





~~,,, 

Meeting for Notre Dame Lesbian ancl Gay Students Group 
For tin1e and location of 1neeting, eall: 1-8041 N DLGS Group A,lvisors.: Fr. Toni Gaughan, C.S.C Sr.Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C. 
N e-ws is looking for -writers. Interested? Call Tim at 1-5323. 
!First Year Plays! 
::1 '.:: 
a••~--~ 
~ 
March \_~/ 28th at 7pm Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Sponsored by the First Year ofStudies 
PURCHASE TICKETS AT I.JAFORTllNE INFORMATION DESK: $2


1mi---r,u------------~----i:mdl
All Meetings -~e private and confidentiaI. 
The Observer. INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, March 23, 1999 


Fighters employ ancient war rituals 
· Afft'he Uri'tted Hurna,n ,H tght1rCo open,ed.Jts aµnual 
Monday, .... · .. . ·· ... ····.·······•··•···· .... ·. 
International departed ft,()'fh . itg traditiona,1 cdth;is~ 9cf China and in.sfoad de'irounpill polict brutal!ty and!:•exi!ctii,. tions in /J1e .lJnitedSt1;1.tes." • ./' "Hutnah rigb(s violatfohs rn the Unimd.States.. ofAmidoo are persistent, wid~pi;:ira,,rl and appear to disprof>ortiO\l~ ately affect people ofracial ttr 
ethnic minority .. hac~~ grounds," Amnesty's sec.tp-tary-genAral Pi1>rre Sali.e said: 
The U.S. delegation leader'. Nancy Hubin, disagreed, say­ing the United Stan:is wa:s "proud of our political an:d judicial system .., . . 
Tlw 5~•nation cominiilsion is the world's top human rights watchdog, even though 
ANKARA 

In a victory for Turkey's sec­ular establishment, the govern­ment survived a no-confidence vote Monday, and Parliament buried a bid backed by an Islamic party to cancel upcom­ing general elections. 
The opposition rame up 40 votes short of the 276 needed to topple the pro-secular, minority government of Prime Minister Bulent Ecevit. · "Parliament renewed its con­fidence in the governmont, and this carries great value for me," Ecevit said. 
The evrnts are likely lo please the country's powerful military, which had warned that a gov­ernment collaps11 and cancella­tion of the elections would lead to chaos. 
Tim no-confidence motion was presented by about 100 lawmakers dubbed "the dis­gruntled" after they were dropped from their parties' lists for re-election. The move was part of a campaign to cancel 
• 
.· 
m for h1imapc:fig1Jtn 
However., eve,n i.y1\1]6 
m'ttl chnsure· mhtitfn, 
. 
said it Woijl:d_ u~e thiS:"Y&ar's 
me,eti,ug Ju• ''.e.xppes~,_it/,l gr.qw~. ing coneifrns dt\the human rights situaH01d.n Cllina."· i Amirns~y w9.u11, rii,k. Jt<;:; cr0dibiHfvif it'"stave<fsHQ.ot 
about tifie · · . wbefe, 
much of its debate is phliti" ; ti(;iflalt cized. Many foreign dignt~ clihti:tl taries are due to sgeai.,, f,J-$' '.·f~· · 
are d'ozens or non~g()~erH~<'.'.e,( 
mental··groups; durirt~..~hi;i sif~ week session. · ·· ·· Anne .. Anderson ofh'et 
was .elected pi:;esideqt o yea.r's session, which<i~ held a.mid. tight sec fear ofYiolentdemo · by Kufds ~1yer··· detention.· of{thei. 
Abdullah Ocala.n. 
In. addition to•. t States SSane !:raid wantelJofocu$the' mission's attention " in. turkey, Al~eria; H and thO .Africa;n ·· Gre area ofRwanda, 13uru11 1 Congo: ·· . . • 
"We meet today atJh~r of.a.century which~ ness~d brutality on a ?e . without historical pre-eed~nt;I'· said Mary Robinson, WN'. l 
High Commissiomir ·r(5r.. ···•······•·•·•··•·.·•·· .. PE 
Human Rights. · . ... .. in Plac.tt 
Associ~ted Press 
SETIMBUK 
The fighter m~ar a cluster of blazing houses pointed at his black headband and declared: "Magic, magic." · 
The charm, given to him by a shaman, can turn away enemy bullets, he said. 
Dozens of fellow warriors strode through a nearby rice field \fondav, dressed for battle: They wore' black face paint, headdresses of floppy leaves and red-ancl-ylillow strips of cloth. The handles of some of their swords bore carved ani­mal images. 
Centuries-old indigenous war traditions abound in an Indonesian region of Borneo Island, where thr death toll 

.... · 
from a week of ethnic violence 
. ti 
has reached 200 people. 

Dayaks have engaged in simi­lar widescale bloodletting in the past: in late 1996 and early 1997, an estimated 500 people w~re killed in attacks on Madurese communities. In 1967 Davak assaults on ('1,hnic Chin,ese ·claimed about 300 lives. 
This time, Malays have joined in the.slaughter in western Borneo, enthusiastically adopt­ing their allies' tastu for decapi­tation. a centuries-old vktory ritual. 

Traditional Dayak beliefs hold that evil lies in the hearts and livers of foes. and rPmoving and devouring these organs is a means of destroying it. 
"By eating the heart of their victims, or enemy, it gives them more courage to fight the war," said Kusni Salang, an anthro­pologist at Christian Lniversity in the central Borneo city of Palangkaraya. 
He said some fighters believe they are protected by so-called "white" magic that protects them from their enomies' weapons. 
There is talk that a red bowl, a symbol of war, has been circulating in Dayak vil­lages. According to custom, those who receive it must pro­vide men and arms to the comm unity that sent it. The bowl is often filled with human blood and chicken feathers. 
In Setimbuk, once an enclave of Madurese farmers, '.'vl.alay marauders, some with cross­bows and crude, homemade guns, roamed Monday through 
fields of chest-high rice ,;talks 
and coconut stands. 
They carefully rcmovAd 
copies of the Koran, Islam's 
holy book, and photographs of 
the area's traditional leader, 
the Sultan of Sambas, before 
burning down abandoned hcJUs­
es. 
Islam dominates among 
Malays and Maduresn in 
Indonesia, the world's most 
populous Muslim rrnlion. A 
large numlwr of' Dayaks am 
Homan Catholic, but many still 
hold animist be]i<1fs. 
To make sun° the Madurnse 
don't return, the Malay war­riors even cut down rows of banana trees in Setimbuk. 
A squad of several dozen police occasionally fired shots in the air, but made no attempt to arrest them. 
Near the village, two Madurese waded across a muddy canal and surrendered with relief to a group of soldiers. 
"I was forced to stay in the bushes last night. I went deep into the forest so mv enemies couldn't find me," said Ridwan Bin Pahkasin, who clutched a string of Islamic prayer beads. 
Likr thrir ancrstors, the rom­batants cut off the heads of many victims and carve out and eat their hearts. Thcv carrv slices of flesh from the slain men into their raids. 
· · ISti,/itQS';, 
Some of thr ethnic Malav and Dayak fighters who have driven thousands of immigr9-nts from the island of Madura out of their villages say they are acting to right what they claim are Madurese injustices. 
"We have woken up from the silence," one man said as vil­lagers with spears and swords jeered at a severed head propped up on an oil drum a few yards away. 
The Madurese were attacked partly because of their reputa­tion, deserved or not, for being hot-tempered and quick to pull a knife in a quarrel. 

·Use Observer classifieds. 

Looking for a great job 
"Protection and preve11ti9n ings and ar~c , ••···.••· •. ···•·••· •···.·..·..·.· 
must define the commission's ing action 'ag~lq:st abli$;¢s 
work in the years to come/' wherevertheyoccur;" ' 


for your senior year? . 
¦ TURKEY 
Parliament maintains secular governn1ent 


·The Alumni-S~l)ipr Clut>is now accepting
Associated Press 
elections scheduled for April 18. 
The Islamic Virtue Party, the largest party in parliament, apparently went along with "the disgruntled" in exchange for their support for lifting a ban on politics against former Prime Minister Necmettin Erbakan. 
The military led the campaign against Erbakan, forcing his pro-Islamic government out of power in 1997. It is staunchly opposed to any return to power of the Islamic movement. 
Dealing another blow to the Islamic movement, a prosecutor petitioned the courts to close down the Virtue party, arguing it was the continuation of Erbakan's banned Islamic Welfare Party. 
Most of Welfare's members regrouped under Virtue's ban­ner after Welfare was shut down for anti-secular activity last year. 
The prosecutor also argued that many of Virtue's members were engaged in anti-secular activity. 

/ 

·11.1csday, March 23, 1999 


NATO unites against Serbs; Clinton threatens airstrikes 
Al'tcrward, llolbrooko gave a Th<l ethnic Albanian side in 
WASIIINGTON 

l'rnsidl'nl Clinton said .~londay that NATO is solidly ht>himl airslrikns ii' Yugoslav l'n•sidcnl Slohodan Milosnvic d1wsn'1. vic\ld to a last-minutn cliplo111ci1.it: plna. "S1nhia's m11unll11).( a).(grPssion must hP sloppPd," Clinton aS,'il!rlcd. 
Bui cvP11 as lw spoke\, the Snnatn wok up logislation ai11wd ,1L blocking funds !'or any military i11tl'rvn11lion in the! Kosovo crisis unlnss tho l'rc-sidc•nl l'irsl nlitaitwd con­).(rt>ssio11al approval. 
"Bl'forc• w1• go bombing sov­i• r1• ign 11ali!lt1s, wt• ought to havt> a plan," said SP11. Kay B.iilPV llutdiison. l!-TPxas, a spo11s'or of lh1· rcslricti11g lng­islal.ion. "T lw rn is 11 o r!P ar poli1:y." 
With SPnalP (padPrs sc•nking a <·ompromisr that would no't u 11 d 1• r Ill ir11• LII P a cl rn in is Lr a ­lion's hard li,w in dPaling wilh l\lilosPvir, spc>rial U.S. 1•11vny l!irhard lloihro11b• tnad1\ ano(ll('r df'orl in H1•lgrad1• l.o prPssUl't' Milosnvoic lo agr,w to an inl<•rim fWi!CP sPltll'­
m"11 l.
"Th,.,·,· is stron!,( unity 
11111ong thP N/\TO alliPs," Cli11Lo11 said. "\A/1' all agr"''
• that WP can1wt allow l'resid<'nl Milos1•vic lo t·ontinuP the aggrPssion witl1 impunity." 
l!olbrooko and Milosnvoic t11Pl for four hours Mondav and llolbrook,• bri<'f"Pil 
Clinton's national sPcurit_v 
ll'il!l!, including SP1-rPtary of' Stat1· l\ladPl1!i1w i\lbriglil, l)pf1•11sl' s,•crl'tarv William Colw11 and nation,;! sncul"it.y advi,wr Sandy H1~rgnr on Monday 1w1•ning, White llmrse prPss s1•<Tl'tary .Ion Lockhart .;aid. 
pnssimistic outlook, telling the dispute signed a poace rnportnrs in BelgradP., "I plan last week in Paris for would hn mislea<ling yn11 if I returning self-rule tn Kosovo, suggested thal today's talks but tlw Milosevic-led Serbian rnsultnd in any substantial side has refused to sign, or to d1ange in Urn situation.~ allow NATO peacP-kecprs to 
ll,1 said Lim ongoing crack­come into Kosovo, a province down in Kosovo. whore gov­of Snrbia. nrnITI(\11 l l'orcns am bal tling Mi\anwhile, Clinton invited a Kosovo Liberation Army bipartisan group of leading rohPls, "mako it difl'icull to llousn and Senate members pursue peace." for a briefing on tho crisis 
And be said lrn would "rnasscss" lal<\r Loda) whether 

prepared," Albright lo con tin un with his 
said, calling his a
'OUR OBJECTIVE IN 
mission. "stark choico" of
Kosovo REMAINS
I I' tlui Sorhi an accepting a six-nation l1\,HIM· rejncts CLEAR: TO STOP THE plan for lhH Subian llolbrookc ·s latest province or bning
KILLING AND ACHIEVE A 
ov,nturo, "NATO's forcn to "bear thn 
DURABLE PE.ACE THAT
military plans must 1·.onscquenccs." 
co11li11uc to move "We have made this !'orwarrl." the prnsi­last effort becausn we d ,int said. Clinton SELF-GOVERNMENT.' belinvn iL is important RESTORES KosOVARS TO 
said lw had nrnsult­nd wilh Europflan IPaders over tlrn w1wkPnd by tnle­phrnw and had also scrnt a lel­l1!r to Hussian l'rosidnnt Boris Y<•ltsin "about tlw urgency of tlw situation." 
Mosr<JW has opposed airstrikcs. But Clinton said, "Our objcr:tivr\ in Kosovo rt>mains clHar: to stop thti killing and achieve a durable pnace that restorns Kosovars to s1df'-government. Wn and our NATO allins and Hussia all agree that this is the right goal." 
Clinton spokn outside the Whitn llousn af'tnr Im rnturned from Camp David, Md. 
IIEi walked away from the microphones without answer­ing a question about when the rnpcatr.dly delayo<l bombing clt>adli1w would finally expire and rnsult in airstrikcs, 

Ayacht for the price of adinghy. 

Now you can get it all without paying for it all. Because the PowerBook® G3 is more affordable than ever (see below). Awesome Pentium-crushing power.* Massive 14.1" screen. Endless adaptibility. All ofwhich can help you work faster and more efficiently. Leaving you more time to stop and smell che ocean breeze. Come in and test the waters. 
PowerBook® G3 prices have been slashed up to $700 with prices starting at $1799.00 Available Now. 
Call now for Apple's special ND student offers! OIT Solutions Center Room 112 Computing/Math Bldg Phone: (219) 631-7477 (1 for sales) 
Apple Education Store: 

. www.apple com/education/store Authorized 1.800.780.5009 Value Added Reseller 
Cli99'1Arirl< u1mplla. Inc ;JI~'"'"""'"·A;~ic, 1ile Aj~~,· •'I:',,1111 l'uwcrllool< arc lrJ<~l11lr~«•At•t~' ulllipu,cr. Inc, rrwsieri:d ill 1hc U_IA.an<l Ulil<.T c.MJ1111i,:, 'fJ\.1fu,m.,.,1:tTKJlflaRittln.\Jh: ~tl ,in U\'Tli.m:ack lnu.')(tf't~ 
B1u CLINTON as we put Amerir.ans US, PRESIDENT into a ·NATO force 
Tumalav at the White House, /\ides t,i congrnssional loaders said lhoy anticipated that 1!1Torts would Im discussPd at the session to find ways nf' avoiding u hitter Snnate dobatc from continuing while airstrikes were imminent or Holbrook still in Yugoslavia. 
Sen. Joseph Biden of' Delaware, senior Democrat on tlrn Senate Foreign Relations Committee, told reporters late Monday he believes a majority of senators would suppport airstrikfls -if it could ever come to a straight yes-or-no vote. 
Earlier Monday, Albright portraynd llolbrooke's mission as Milosevic's last chance to avoid NATO bombardment of Serb targets. 
"Time has run out and that is why Mr. llolbrooko's mis­sion is so important," Albright said al a brief news confer­ence at the State Department. But she sounded pessimistic about the chance the Yugoslav leader would reverse course and accept the plan that would giv11 self-rule to ethnic Albanians and enforce it with NATO peacekeeping troops. 
''He is going to deliver the 
message that 
airstrikcs are being 
that we have gone thn 

last mile," Albright said. referring to the role Americans would take in a bombing oporntion. 
She said fighting in Kosovo had intcnsiffod while the toll of refugeos fleeing their homos was on the rise. At 1h11 samn time, Albright dismissed reports NATO would go on a ground offensive against the Serbs. 
Meanwhile, the Senate debated legislation sponsored by Senate GOP IHaders that would bar funds for any U.S. military action in Kosovo with­out prior congressional approval. But even Senate leaders seemed a little uncom­fortable with the timing ­with delicate negotiations going on in Belgrade and a key vote scheduled on the Kosovo 




Senators 

bill for early af'tnrnoon on Tuesday. 
"I accede that the timing is bad, hut I don't know wh1\n it gets bettor." said Mrs. llutchison, tlw prinrn sponsor ol' tlw lngislation. "This doesn't prohibit tlrn airsl.rikcs. It just says that tho prcsid1nll has to conrn to Congrnss first." 
But l>nmocrats urg1\d a delay in Senatn vot11s -,w1\n while agreeing that Clinton should consult morn closnly with Congress if' U.S. f'orcos am Lo be sent into a combat situa­tion. 
"This is a vnry difficult tinw for us to lw sm1ding this mes­sagn to Mr. Milosevic," said Sen. Byron Dorgan. IJ-N.D. 
Bidnn said he• f'avornd a Sc n ate yns-11 r-n o vo l1\ on wlwthnr to proc(!l'd with tlw airstrikns, 
;\s lo th " m iI ita r y a<'. ti o 11 its eII'. Bi cl 1\ n i n dica t1\ cl Im favored moving against Milosevic militarily. 
"What'is thn downsidu or not acting'?" Bidnn asknd. "It is imnrnnsn." 
/\ test vol\\ on tlw nwasuri\. also sponsornd by Snnatl' Majority L11acl1•r TrPnt Loll, l!­Miss.. was .-x1wrlnd· on Tuesday, Lott ncnds (10 vot,•s in tlrn i00-mmnlwr SPnatn to overcome procndural barriPrs put up by Dmnocrats and lo prevail -a thrnshold Loll was not expnctnd to achieVP, 
Talks wnre unclnr way among Bnpublican and Dnmocratic Senate leadnrs for common ground. 
Thn House narlinr this month narrowly passt!d a non­binding rnsolution nxprnssing support for snnding U.S. troops to Kosovo as part of a future NATO pnacnkonping force, 
demand 


pressure on Russia 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Senators representing both parties demanded Monday that Vice President Al Gore press Russia's prime ministnr in· meetings this week to stop his country's cooperation with Iran on missiles and nuclear technology, 
ln a letter, the 34 senators said Prime Minister Yevgeny Primakov must be convinced that "an Iran armed with nuclear weapons and advanced ballistic missiles is no more in Russia's interests than in our own." 
"We want to urge you to tnake Iranian acquisitions of Russian .ballistic missile and nuclear weapons technology an issue of tho highest priori­ty in these talks," they wrote. 
Initiated by Sen. Dianne F1:1lnstein, D-Cnlif., tho lotter Was signed by 20 Democrats and 14 Republicans, including 
· (oteign relations committ.,~e chairman .Jesse Helms, H•N.C. 
Primakov arrives today, with m(>etings set to begin Wednesday. Anti-Russian demands on the vice presi• dent by ono,third of the Sanlilte's membership adds 
• another edgo to a visit already made tense by Russia's oppo­sition to possible military action against Yugoslavia by NATO to force a political set­tl9men t in violence-torn 

VO, 
makov'.s visft was ~.'1. largely to, :win favor $4 billion. R,ussia.n loan 

request from the lnternntiona.l Monetary Fund. Developments in Kosovo hnvo intervened, and now Iran, which already was on the agenda. will takA !HJ nnw importance. 
"We wanted to sho,,· the broad support this issue has in the Senate," said Howard Gantmnn, spokesman for Fr,instein. 
Last Thursday, Russia's atomic £rn11rgy minister, Yevgeny Adarnov, offerr,d to stop coopnration with Iran if sanctions woro lifted from leading Hussian nuclear research institutes. 
The State Department wel­comed the offer but said coop­era tion should be stopped first 
Ignoring pressure from the United States, Hussia has sold nuclear and missiln tnchnolo­gy partly because of the hard currency it brings to the suf'­foring Hussian 1)conomy. 
In January, the Clinton administration barred 10 Hussian research centers from any work in tho Unitod States as punishment for pro­viding Iran technology that could help d1:w11topment of weapons of mass destruction. 
It is those sanctions the 

Russians want liftfld. 
Monday's lott<1r not11d that both Congress and the admin­istration have acted against the Russian-Iranian connec· tion, but it said "the leakage of Russian ballistic missile and nuclaar woapons technoJ­ogy ... has not abated." 




VIEWPOINT 
page IO-------------------------os~ERVER Tuesday, March 23, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
NllTRE DAME OmcE: P 0. Box Q, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
1999-2000 GENERAL BOARD 
EnlTOlMN·CHIEr Michelle Krupa MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGf.R 
M. !,hannon Ryon D~we Rogew 
ASSIS'rANl' M,1..'>IAGIN(; EDITOR 
Laur. Percllc 

NEWS Eurm~ ...............................Tim Logan ADVERTISING MANACER ....................... Bryan Lur, VIEWPOINT EDITOk .............Colleen Goctghcn AD DESl<.:N MANAGER ............... Kenneth Kearney SrORTS t:onoa..........................Bri:m Kc,slcr SYsrEMS MANAG£R.................,......Michacl Revers SCFNF EDITOR..... .. ......Michael Vanegas CoNTROLLl'R ..................................Timothy Lane SAINT MARY'S EDITOR .....Colleen McCarthy GRAPHICS EDITOR..............................Joe Mueller PHOTO EDITOR ....................... Kevin D,lum WFB ADMINISTRUOR......... ..............Eric Kushro 
Tht" l)hscrvcr 1:i; the i11dependem nt-wc;p:1per publi,hcd by 1hc s:rudenr'> or 1ht" University of Notre-D;)me du Lie and ~ainr Mary·~ Colk-ge. !1 dr)("I: ll('f nl'ce~sarily reflect th(" pn'licies nfrh.:-adminiur:uion ofcicher in!r-dturion. The news i~ reporm.i .1\ ~ccuracdy :rnd ohji:ctivdy :,s ~ible. Unsignr-d roitoriali n:presenr rhe orinion of ,he majority of rhc F.dfror-in-Chief. M:m:1ging F,diror, As~ist'anr Man.aging P.diror :md drpartment cdito~. l.omm('nta1ies, lemn and columns rr~m th~ vi~ or1h" authors 1111d nm' nc~iltily 1ho5.e ofTh(' Ob>MYol"t. Viewpo·inr lip;lct' h available ro all mc-rnhc-rs nftht• Notre ~mt-/5;1inr M;1ry's comrnunirv and m :11l ~a.ders, The: fter-c..-;<pr4.'mSlon of varying opinlonl'i ,hroul!'.h leHen. is 1:ncomagc.:d. 
Contacting The Observer 

Edimr-in-Chief 631-4542 Office Manager/General lnformarion 631.7471 M,naging Ediror/Anisr,mt ME 631-4541 Bu,inmOffice 631-5313 Nr·ws 63 I -5323 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Viewpoint 63.1-5303 Sy<tems 631.8839 Sport, 631-4543 Fax 6j!-6927 sc~n~ 631-4540 Ad E-Mail obmver@darwin.cc.nd.cdu Sainr Marv\ G,1-4324 News E-Mail ohserver.obsncws.1@nd.edu Phoro/We'.h A<lmini.'inamr 631-8767 Vicewpoinr E-Mail Viewpoinr. l@lnd.edu 

¦ PROGRESSIVE STUDENT AtuA,NCE · 

Fight For Something Bigger Than Yourself 
• 
I feel strange writing this article for the Women's Resource Center), but simply use the excuse that they forgot. commendable groups on campus dndi­the newspaper because I usually try to beyond that, like most PSA members, If the school was debating becoming a cated to promoting social justice. div11r­stay away from forums where my writ­my views are far too varied to pigeon­dry campus, I bet no one would forget .sity, and tolerance. If you are not a ing can be criticized and my viewpoints hole me. that protest. If you can remember the member of mw now, join' Groups likn ridiculed without any chance for an I am not interested in government, address of the party on Friday night, these arc always looking for more par­immediate response, clarification, or and am not a "publicity seeker" as we you can remember the site and time of a ticipation. explanation or some sort on my part. PSA members have been labeled. I wish rally or speakout We at Notre Dame are some of' tho But I am it for the week, the PSA col­that my involvement in the PSA was not ------for an most privileged, educated, intelligent umn writer, so I'll try my best. necessary. Like most other people, and socially conscious young people in 
there are many things I would the country. It is time we realize that rather be doing than rallying in and act accordingly. If we will not act the cold, or speaking out to for what we believe to bn right, how unresponsive classmates can we expect any affective change
Megan 

or debating the issue in the future? If wn do not nxpnnd with (largely uni­an hour or two now working for formed) opposition. I important issues that we actu­
would rather be

Fitzpatrick 

reading, or paint­
ing, or eating or
sleeping, or 
Hight now two of the biggest issues maybe even doing the PSA is working toward are living­my homework. wage and sweatshop reform, but I am anything. But I sure other members are more qualified am a member of to write about these in coming weeks, so the PSA because I am sticking to a personal report about there is a desper­why I am a member of the Progressive ate need for Student Alliance. I think recent efforts responsible and to vilify the group, while ridiculous, responsive voices have been taken seriously by some peo­in the Notre Dame ple on campus who have no direct expe­community. 
ally have rnal potential to change, what will we do when we are out in the real
' 

world and tlrn issues sr.em 
much more daunting? 
The answer is that the 
majority of us are selfish. 
We are so wrapped up in 
our own lives and sdrnd­
ulcs that wn forget that we 
are part of' a real.commu­nity that nncds active par­ticipation. Timm ani thos11 
who spend time cvnry wnok volunteering, and I comnwnd 
rience with PSA members, and perhaps have in11uenced those who might other­wise be vocal in the advocacy of human rights. 
One of the reasons I feel most awk­ward in this position is that I have never thought of myself as a political activist in any way. The closest I have ever got­ten to public protests vvas during my involvement with a pro-life group in high school (yes, many of us in the PSA are pro-life). 
Pre.viously when on stage I have usu­ally stuck to the arts and have voiced my opinions privately. I do not have political aspirations and am not even a clear Dnmocrat or Republican. 1am a feminist and a humanist to be sure, (and also a member of the "feminist enclave," 

Many times I have asked friends and classmates to join the PSA and other groups in protesting injustice around us. Almost everyone I know support these issues. Most will sign a petition, but when the actual commitment of time comes up, they fall far short of action. 
The apathy on our campus scares me. People who support human rights issues largely fail to show up at PSA (and other campus groups) activities. Our rallies · and other activities have usually been advertised well ahead of time, but when the appointed time comes, everyone seems to have more important things to do ... work. sleep, homework, etc. Many issue 
in which you believe. And if you do not know much about the issue, you owe it to yourself to find out what exactly these policies that effect all of our lives mean. You might just find yourself on our side of the issue. 
Most active PSA members are pretty educated about what has been going on in campus debates. There are many them. I do not do hair tlrn 

good I could, I know. 
Truthfully, I was not cvnn happy 
about having to writ11 this articln, 
but as long as the majority of the 
student body stays silent, I will spnak­out loudly for reform and invite anyorw wishing to learn morr. about how to make a diffnrencn to attend our rngular meetings. Tlrny are very informal, and we always have new peopln wandering in, so plese fl.ml wPlcomn. 
Megan Fitzpatrick is a junior Arts and Letters major. Th« Progressive Student Alliance column runs every Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those <~{ the author and not ne<:es­sarily those of the PSJ1 or The 0/1.<:enwr. 
GARRY TRUDEAU
¦ 000NESBtHlV 

{)/!)I 11.J:JRK.MYEllTT Cff. ITMeAN~ NOTHIN6­FOi< &IGHT Yl;,4Rt3AT5T,4N­ANYOf IT/ Tl-le PHI FORP fOR.. TH/5 rl'5 TH/5 8/;TA mPPA K&Y,I 7H& 
'WAMA 5CHOIAR5H/P/ 
¦ Quon: OF mt DAY 

'Anidea that is not dan­gerous is unworthy of being called an idea a\ all.' 
-Oscar Wilde 




VIEWPOINT 
Ti.icsday, March 23, 1999 
------------------------page 11 

¦ LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
The Heart of Happiness 
W1i liw in a country that is the envy of the world. BIPssPd w; wn arP with a. strong economy, low unem­ploynrnnt. and limited military involvnment, thi~ should Im a plac,, whN1l contentment and happrness are comrnonplarn. Instead, our people are burdened by widesprNtd and doop angnr; our sensos are blis­t<•rcd by daily reports of road rage, stabbings, shoot­ings, spousal abuse and the shameful scapegoating of' multitudes of' our childrm1, a half million oCwhom an~ 1:urrently livin~ in fost~r care. 
Why'! Ilow cnn this be'? 
Can it be that f'ar Loo many of us have let ourselves br mesmerized by glitzy impostors that promise us gc•nuinP happiness, then induce us to mortgage our spirits lo pursun thorn and finally leave us holding a bag that is Pmpty? II' wo let ourselvos imaginn that wPalth. powPI', fame or pleasure -perhaps even a wmbination of all four -can ultim~1.lely make us happy in a doop and lasting way, we am setting our­irnlves up for the anger that attends the eventual dis­covf'fy and admission that we've been harl. Willingly. Hnp1mtmilv. 
Don't grt mo wrong. Wnalth, powor. l'amo and plea­st1rl' ran all be good things. But lhey are all means, not nnds; non11 of them servP l.o bo our ultimate con­('l'l'fl, nonn is /\no ugh to livo -or die -for. Of course w11 want financial security for our families, recogni­lion for our efforts. enough influence to make a differ~ Pncn 11.nd enough nnjoyrnont to add znst to our lives. Ttl<' problPm is that nverythi.ng in this world is fragile and finito. EVPry home owner and car driver knows that 1111ything with morn than OIH! part will eventually brt:11k down. Nothing tentative and tomporal can state our appetite for bliss that has no limits and lasts for-1!wr. We s1iem to he caught in a cosmic mismatch. Is tlwrc uny way we can achinve a lmppiness that trans­forms nml vivifies us beyond all boundaries'? 
The college years are a good time to sort out what w,1 bnlinvn and how that bolief is 11rnbodlod in who we aro and what we do. We need not only to learn the truth, hut to do the truth as well. The wisdom we seek is n combination of knowlt}dge and love, of theo­ry and expnriunco. I believe that the heart of happi­ness is found in a paradox: the more you give of your­self, the more you ani filled: the more you live in soli­darity with all of God's child1·en. tho more you are !{iven tho grace to celebrate the presence of love in 
yom life. • I know somAthing about this bocau~e I have been, at various stages in my life, a free spirit, a member of a 
r!lligious order, a doubter, n cultural Catholic, and 
now, finally, a happy person. I can report what hap­
pened to bring this about even if I cannot really 
explain it. When my sons Jeremy and Josh were on thtiir way toward graduating from Notre Dame, my 
wifo, Jill'and I dociclod that we wanted to make a dif­ference with the rest of our lives. We adopted two biracial children. Trevor who is nine. and Emily who 
will soon be six. That decision flew in the face of the p,mco and privacy I have always sought. More was to comP. Inspired by Alex Kotlowitz's book, '1'here Are 
No Children Hore," and also by graco, we transformed our 15 acre farm into a haven for disadvantaged chil­clrnn. We did not regard it as a nice thing to ·do, it is a lifetime thing to do. We meant for this to be a place ofsafo and wondrous fun for four-to 11-ycar-olds 
from less fortunate circumstances and more troubled areas. Wt1 linknd up with agenclM such as the Boys and Girls Club, the Hans1il Neighborhood Center, t;race Community Center, Head Start, the Center for the Homeless and the Inner City Teaching Corps in Chicago. In tlrn past yoar we hosted 2,200 child visits and 800 volunteer days at the camp. We have seen first hand the wonders that grace works through the smiles of children. The children and the Notre Dame ·. students who como to b(1 with them arc changed when their bonds of caring and friendship are form,,.d and dllepmrnd with each visit. I can testily that being a part of it, being continually inspitcd by tho joy of tho children and the incredible fidelity of the Notre Dame volunl!wrs has brought me happiness more deep and more lasting than any I haVl:l ever known, 
If your hca1:t lco.ds you to welcomEl, tutor, support and rncnm·age others, follow it. Love is tho one thing wn can build our lif'e around with the assurance that it will Mt let us down; it alone is not bound by limit or timP. That really is a truth that can set us free. 
Jim Langford 

Dircccor of the University ofNotre Dame Press, Cor~ Course Prof~Mir.llc~burgh Lecturer for the Alumni Association nnd d.,..foundcr with his wife of There Are Children Here Mard1 19, 1999 
¦ RIGHT TO LIFE 



WRC Censure Imperative 
Academic frendom. Proc1!dural fairness. Administrative accountability. 
ln the year silm~ I entered the Women's lfosourcn Cnnter to explore the rumors thal it was rnl'P1Ting womnn for abortions, the issuo has degmwrated from one of gmmine discussion to a rree-for-all of' buzzwords behind which to rally. Sadly, even tlw Faculty Senate has beconrn so swept up in tlrnse buzzwords as to losn sight of what is truly at stake hem. 
In light of' my 11xperirnco of giving a "dcposi­lion" to thn St.udnnt. Affairs Committl!O oftlrn Faculty SPnate (in which I was trnatml with dis­maying hostility by some of the members) as w1dl 

We all know that I.he prnsm1cn ol' a book in a library does not 1•vir1cP an m1dorsenwnt of nwry­thing c:ontairwd in that book by tlw administra­tors of the library. W1: arn not surprisml to lind numerous and conllicting vimvpoints rPprnsPntPd in Urn texts within tlw I leshurgh Library. llow1wer, would you h1\ surprised Lo lind a llyPr in Lhe Ol'lice of Drug and Alcohol Fdtwation dis­cussing how much fun it is to drink and drivP'! Ilow about a brochun• dPtailing various methods of' committing suir.idl' in tlw Counsl'ling C:PntPr'! 
Them arn somn organizations that dnal with issues so s,~nsitiw and impadivP that tlwy absolutPly must pay at.l!\ntion to what thny say 
================
as my first-hand knowledge of 
what happened when I walked 
inlo tlw WHC anrl asked for ¦
C t 

informal.ion on abortion. I a Fl Ona 
must doubt wlwihcr the 
Student Affairs Committe1\ prn­

scnted an accurate picture of w·1 k ·1 e 
the situation to the f'ull Senate. 
I Knowing and l'PSp!\Cting many of the members of' the Senato leaves me in suspicion that the votes taken on this issue were nor grounded in a complete understanding or the truth. 
I WAS HEFEHHED TO AN i\.BOHTION CLINIC. Although I made this clear during my interview with the Student Affairs Committnn, .this fact sm1ms to havn been conwni1rntly forgotten in the rncent proceedings. Let me provido you with a quow from Urn transcript ol' my nxperienc1~. recorded on Urn day that I walked into the WBC and asked if they had 

any information on abor-down, ultimatP!y, from 
lion. Tlw worker obvi--·-,-::~=?·---.-::_~~"'--:-~ ~:..:_---:-~:.;-:;_::. tlw Uniwrsity itsplf. 
ously prnsumml that I MPmlwrs of tlw was prngnant and told Farulty Snnntn and all me that "she could takn ot.hnrs inl<'rnst1\d in this my name and number isstu', hnre art' tlw facts: and call me with a refer-I I l walked into llw ral" if I so desirnd. I was WHC and asked if tlwy also handed a sales had any information on brochure for an abortion abortion. clinic in Niles. 2) The worker 
Another woman who assumed that I was underwent a similar pregnant and gaw nm experience, Christine general information on Cabany, was even pre-1, I tlw topic of abortion ­sented with the offer of f'?: ~, '/1 111 ,'// as well as a sales having a WRC worker .....,.._ . ..,..-.. _ _., ...,, _ _ ,--.,,... brochurn for an abortion call an abortion clinic for 1. ~ '~ l~~ clinic and an offor to call 
her. It is utterly ludi­ o•.,;1,•• ~ ..ul}  L.... 1,r,,  !:! •  
crow, to argue that these  
two incidents represent  
anything but referrals to  
abortion clinicsi I am  
saddened, indeed, that  
the simple facts of this  
case have been so great­ 
ly distorted.  
Along with the perver­ 
sion orthese facts,  
another lamentable  
inaccuracy has been  
propagatnd: the connec­ 
tion of the WHC's proba­tion to academic free­ 1J  
dom. It is simply impos­ 
sible to legitimately con­ 
strue this as an issue of  
academic freedom. Let  .,....,....  
us draw a parallel  
between the WRC and,  
say, the Office of Drug  

and Alcohol Education. Could anyone contend that the Ollice of Drug and Alcohol Education is restricting academic freedom because it does not provide information on how to binge drink and abuse drugs'? Shouldn't they provide information about all sides of the issue, and ref'er students to some ol'the aroa's best cocaine dealers in addi­lion to Alcoholics Anonymous'? 
Obviously, the answer is no, And the reason the answor is no is that this office repres(mts the University -and its policies, mission and charac-Ler -in a substantive and influential manrwr. When a student walks into that ollke, the implicit but innvitable assumption is that the information offered and the agencies referred to within arc 1mdorsed by the University. One could not (:redi­bly expect. to bn given the phone number of the corner crack dealer, because the University can­not be expected to endorse drug abuse. 
There is a fundamental and absolutely crucial distinction to bn drawn between agencies that function solely as libraries and agencies whose functions include counseling and endorsement. 
11nd how tlwy say it. and such organizations an\ c1,r­
tainly not n•quirncl to givP N[Ual w1iight to all options. Tlmrp am agm1cies at this 
-or any -U11iv1!rsiLy wlwrn tlw VPry naturl' or llw agnncy constitutl's a11 cndorsnmnnt of tlw litnra­
turn it housPs and tlw options it propos1\S. It is 

worse than naivP lo contPJHI that tlw WHC sPrvPs simply as a neutral depository of' information. 
To ignore the innate idrn1tity of I.Im WBC: as a cmmscling and rnforral c11nter -wlwtlwr llw group's mission stat<•ment 1•xpliritly dntails this or not. -is a dangnrous act of sell"-d1!cPption. Students i:onsider this facility to hold an authority which im!Jtws the rcsoun·es it dissPminatt•s and the agimdcs to which it rPl'Prs with a s1'11s1• of 
legiti111acy hand Pd 

·" !,A\.--.,....V-< \ ""'-1 l' I 
'-' ~ me wit 1 a rn nrrn. 
3) Christ.inc Gabany walkcd into tho WHC and asked if they had any information on abortion. 
L. 4) The worknr assumed that slw was 

'-· • prngnaut and gave lrnr information on Urn topic of abortion -as well as 
-->---..:,...__ the phono numbers of
ls,wcral abortion clinics and an offor to call tlw clinics for lrnr.'/ My questions arc sim­
~ pit~: what if Christine or I had lmPn prngnant'? What if we had b1wn 18 

~ years old and alone and 
Q. ·~-l'rightPrrn<I out of our r·-~ minds'? Would it havn 
bcpn an issufl ol' ,u:adP­mic freedom then'? Or would it have been tlm Women's Resource Center of tlw nation's lmtding Catholic university helping a vulnnrahle young 
woman to procure an abortion'! 
If you oppose Student /\ctivitins' dndsion to limit the WllC's ability to cndorsn abortion. you are not standing up for acadnmic frnedom. You am not bnaring a bannnr for the rights of' st11d1•11t groups. You am not promoting tlrn scholastic integrity of' this school. You arc dmnanding that this University actiwly rd'nr its sludm1ts !'or ahor­lions. You are asking Notn\ Damn to conLravriw the very moral f'ahric on which it is l'oundl'd. 
Catriona Wilkie is a senior li11ing in !'anghom !fall and the Co-President r>f Nolr<' name/Saint Mary's Right to Ufe. She is also -contrary lo popular opinion -afeminisl, a liberal and a /local opponent ofactual C<'nsorship. 
The c•iews expressed in /.hi.'i r:olwnn are those of I.he author and not necessarily those ofNotre Dame/Saint Mary's Right lo Ufe <Jr Tlw Olnwn1er. 
It 

page 12 
OBSERVER -----------------Tuesday, March 23, 1999 
It's a vacation! Taking at 

The dust has settled 
Notre Dame's new bookstore. Before returning down South to buy another textbook or sweater, check out what Scene has to say about the latest addition to ND's always expanding campus ... 
Br ANDREW McDONNELL 
Scene Writer 
The New Hammes Bookstor<:. 
You've heard all about it. 
You·vo snen it. 
You've probably already gone shopping in it. 
You've licked it. \You have'?) 
l{pgardless or what manner it might have bnen, you've come in some wntact with this palatial shop­.ping ct>nter, and you'vt• formf'd some opinion about iL 
Tllo nnw 6.5,000 square foot Hammes Hookslore composes over two-thirds of the recently ope1rnd Er_;k Ccrnt11r on the south side of' campus. The $21.5 million Center -$10 millinn nf which was funded by 1944 alumnus frank Eck -now servos as tho focal point for visitors to the Notre Dame campus. This newest addition to campus is an admirable structure with a beautifully designed and planned interior, but it has also raised a few eyebrows with its location, prices and content. 
One statement that few patrons would contradict is that the interior of the new Ilammes is very, very posh. The skylit lobby is immense, majestic and spa­cious enough to allow a newspaper reporter all the "spinning until I fall down" room that he, or she, might have conceivably asked for. The lobby's high, formal white walls are tastefully garnished with the occasional ND banner to remind you where you are, while the trained eye can imagin_e its potential to hold a lwo-by-lwo block of Asian elephants standing on oJH: another's backs, with plenty of' room to spare for a giraffe. 
Tim space is not filled with carnfree elephants, however, as tlw bookstore's designers opted for the only slightly mcirl' subtle combination of <'mpty air and a large table. Tim tablt~ scrnams for mercy under tlw weight of an imprnssive flower arrange­rrnmt that bees throughout thP Midwest an! moan­ing for in t!H1ir sleep. 
Arter altPmpting to rnrnll \"vhat llw porch in the old llamnws b()okstorc looked like. visitors may grab a blue mesh shopping bag and begin perusing th<i treasures that lie deep within the heart of Notre Dame's 1rnw bookstore. 
Within the new Hammes lies a plethora of litera­tu rn and enough Notre Dame paraphernalia to clothe a small army. A very small army. A very small armv with an nxtremelv odd notion of what camoul1agi1 is supposed to look like. Never mind. 
The clothing selection at Notre Dame's bookstore has long been known for its generally high quality accompanied by its generally high prices. f.or instance, the llollowav Leather Sleeve Jacket, shockingly similar to ihe·one that Sean Astin's Rudy wore in the movie "Rudy," will run you a cool $249.99. A Notre Dame tie-dye shirt, with what appears to be a gigantic brown sweat-stain already applied around the neckline, will run you $27.95, and a pair of Notre Dame mesh shorts will cost you a few dollars more than that. You'll have to pony up $16.95 if you want at-shirt that proclaims to the world, "More Hustle, More Sweat, More Desire, More Heart, Makes a Domer." 
Bookstore Oirnctor Jim O'Connor explains that the higher pricPs an' for higher quality. 
"One thing W!\ try to do is carry things that are different from those in town. I think the pricing downstairs is a rnally good deal for what you're get­ting," he said. 
The larger sPIPction of books on the first kvel is a nice feature. Ovt>r 75,000 titles are available, and best-sellers are 30% off -a tremendous improvc­mnnl from what the old bookstore· had to offer. It's like having a Barnes and Noble right on campus. 
The CD offerings have also I.men expanded, hut lhb is not at all obvious, as they occupy only three shelving units. Tim CD prices. for the most part, can he bcatPn -beaten to a gooey pulp by almost any other store, that is. The majority nf the CDs are marked "Sale $16.99" so if you're in the market for music, your best bet is probably further from cam­pus. 
The shr~lving throughout the store is thu epitome 
of' dass -a delicious combination of' cherry and 
glass that simply shouts, "I am bookstore. Love, but 



The Observer/LIZ Lang 

Expect these lines to be much longer come football season. 
The Observer/Liz Lang 
The new Hammes bookstore is located on Notre Dame Ave., just 
south of the Morris Inn. 


don't touch mu." The shopping atmosphore is relaxed but restrained, giving the building a sense of a place that demands more respect than affec­tion. Music reinforces this mood as it hums softly throughout the store, establishing a varying but overall subdued mood with a repertoire ranging from harpsichord sonatas to Beatles' tunes, to tradi­tional Iris.W,ieces. 
Following in the Barnes and Noble/Borders/public library tradition, there are a number of inviting chairs and sofas scattered throughout the new bookstore, where patrons are wekome to relax with their reading material of choice, whethM that be Virginia Woolrs "Mrs. Dalloway" or Patterson and llcnnossy's "Computer Organization and Dnsign." The furnit.urn is a composition of plush leatlrnr and shiny metal ornamentation. 
With its almost cartoonish contours, Urn couches and chairs have been labeled by some as Nouveau Mickey, and in fact, it turns out that the furniture's designer, Jordan Moser, is also Disney's furniture designer. llcgardless of what one might call it, the comfortable seating is a feature that the old book­storn could never havr; of'fornd with its limited space. 
Another resnurce added to the new bonkstore is the availability of computers. Four network-sup­ported computers are available on the second lloor for members of' tho University community with an AFS ID and password. A novel concept, the comput­ers will allow students and faculty a new outlet to check their e-mail or surf the web. In fact, students 

can even compare the pricc:s of their textbooks with those offered by onlinP snrvicPs such as /l.mazon.com, without cvnr leaving the store. 
Once the textbook rush begins anew, students should also be facing smaller crowds than usual, thanks in part to the on-line: book sales system. Students need only surf over to the bookstor<''s wdJ­site and enter their class sclrndull's lo find and select which books the professor teaching that class has ordered. Students can tlrnn pick up thnir books at the store shortly afterward. n•ady and lrngg('d. 
l\luny student shoppers am enthusiastic about llw new bookstorn's presence and anwnitins. ·•1 wish I could live lwrn. Can I livi> hem"" askPd freshman Kent Nelson. 
Keough Hall resident MikP Borealc also cxprnssPd a fondness for the new structure. "I think it's great. It's a vast improvement over tlrn old bookstor(\," lw said. BorealP also apprnciatNI what Im jH\rcPivos as the effort of thn store'1, plarnrnrs to lt!SS<rn thn nfforl J'oothall w<inkends might haVI' on a studcH1l shopping !'or necessities. 
"I like tlrn design. Somebody is definitely thinking. With all the sort of products that students might neecl stored on the upp(:r l'loors, stuunnts won't havP to facn thn rush on football WPl'kcnds," hP said. 
Wlwther this pn,diction will pan out or not will remain in the provnrbial pudding until late! August. Until then, it is recommended that. if' a studl'nt is in desperate need of toiletries, tlrny should be pur­chased before th£\ l'ootball weekend comnrnncns. 
,-.----------------------------------~-----------r,,_ ........... -.....---...-----..----.. 

e_S;@en 

t1c:;day, March 23, 1999 -------------------OBSERVER ------------------------page Ij 

p to the new bookstore 
. . ·. · The Obsllf'\/OriL12 Lang 
Offering snacks from candy bars to hot chocolate, the bookstore's cafe, Seattle's 
Best, looks to comp~_te with other ND foodstops like Reckers and Lula's. 
T.he bookstore's brewin' 
with ND's 'Best' 
ByANDREW McDONNEU. Sg;ne Wtirer 

.. Seattle's Best Coffee, located in the new Hammes Bookstore. is the latest entry in the competition to win the affection of the campus caffeine fiends (not the ones who dunk Yivrin in their Mc,untain Dow, however). The new shop is small­ish compared to Reckers, of course, but it does offer some of the tastiest bever­ages to be found ouc:ampus. It also has an atmosphere quite conducive to con• versation. anfflSential part ofany cotrce shop worth iU, saJt. 

The design of the chairs and tables, a continuation of the bookstore's border­line quirky furniture, is really quite comfortable. The chairs provide a nice place to fol trred sh()ppers resnheir legs while they partake ln Sonttle's Best brand conversation and coffee. 
The shop offers a number of delicious drinks for all tastes. I lot Chocolate-or tea, cappudrws. soft drinks and mochas -colfoes of all sorl-; are av1tilable. 
The Raspberry Mocha Kis.'i, from experience, L'i a drink worthy of a t11st1L I am a fan. Sweet, but not too sweet; coffee-tinted, but not overpoweringly bitter tor those ofus who shy away from the stronger com~e drinks; it L,; toppPd in a deli­cious whipped cream that can hold its own with any offered by Lula's or Reckers. 'fhis drink is what a friend of mine often refers to as "sex in a glass," only you can drink it before, after or during marriage. Morally, it's all the same. 
·n1e shopc<intainstwo walls of' snacks, including potato chips and candy bars. and al.:;o has a freezer case offering Snapple, Coke, ice creams, popsicles and boxes of Fanny May chocolate. 
Seattle's Best also offers m1 assortment of pastries in which, no doubt, a num­ber of sorrows ""ill be drowned in th<' vears to ctnno. Tho croissant-;, edairs and cinnamon rolls call softly from behind their glass confines, "Eat me. Eat me or I'll climb in yJ.mr window at night and crawl into your sleeping mouth. I'll get yot1; one way or tho other." 
Tasty treats abound, so if your Lenten promise involves snacking, avoid this place as ym1 would a Frito-Lay distributor's convention -entirnly. Seattle's 81;st is as,nice a place as any on campus to stop for a drink or a small 


The Obsef'/erlliz Lang The Observer/Liz Lang Though slightly expanded, the music As usual, the bookstore is stocked with section at the new bookstore leaves Notre Dame apparel, always ripe for much to be desired. purchase by anyone with the bucks. 
bite to eat. 


\!\'hilt• 111ost ol' lilt' visitors to tht' nPw bookstorn 
t'Xpn•ss a n•rtain a111ou11t of admiration, many st11­
dP11ts ar1• also asking whPllwr it was built with 
l.l11•m in rni11cl. 
"ll's dPf'i11il.Ply gParnd nrnrn towards visitors and 
1rnrP11ls -pr•oplP who hav<' 111r11wy lo spnnd on 
P11grav1•d rrystal and pot holdPrs and sweatnrs and 
l'it!Pd baby d11•PrlPadN outfits," said Jim Fleming, a 
l\1•1•11a11 llall .lunior and avid shoppPr. "It's always 
IH•P11 lhal way, l gtwss. hut it's dl'finitc>ly mon\ pro­
11011nrl'd in tlw 1ww hooksl.11rP." 
l-'l1·mi11g is 1101 11lo1w i11 this li1w of thought. Many 
stud,,111s ca1i'I l11'1p but notiu, that, while\ th1• portion 
of th1• sl.or.-cl1•di1·all'd to lht' ).(t'lll!ral publir has 
swPlli•d. lh1• st'rlion appan•11t.ly ai11wd at stud<\llls 
lms rPmai1wd husir:ally Lili' s,111w. Dillon llall ri•si­
d1•nt .I.I'. ~1ontu1'11r is 01H· such student. 
"T1!1•y 11dd1•d all ol' llwst• rngular hooks down­
stairs. and that's gn•at, hut as far as oth<•r ilPms for 
sludl'nls, sud, as C:Ds ur toilPtrins, arl' conc·nnwd. it 
could lw l'ar 111or1• romplt'll'," 111• argu1\d. 
"I had a prohll'llt p11llin~ color-safp Ti<IP from 
l'int•ly cra!'l!•d ciwrry·slwlving. 11. was unsettling," 
addPd Miki' Bra1ll. Montufar's shopping c11111panio11. 
l'h1•rp lrnv1· also h1•1•n t'.Olllplainls frolll sol!ln slu­, cknts. partin!larly thDst• rnsiding in tl11i Mod Quad 
and 111T-1·nmpus, ahout llw Bookstorn's 11111v1•11w11t to 
an iu·t>a nVl'll mon' distant than lhn 011!' it occupind on campus to accommodate tho size and grandeur of the Eck Center. Additionally, at its Notrn Dame Avenue location tlw gm1eral publir. can access the store with far greater case than in previous years. 
i\ccording to Jim O'Connor, the overall rnsponse from students has been very positive. ''I've had a great thrill watching the students walk in, and see­ing tlwir nyes light up," lrn added. 
O'Co1mo1· envisions tlrn new bookstore as a place wlrnro students can escape for a fow hours when llw dorm atmosplwrn bocomos too noisy. StudPnts have already bpgun to rnak1• their presence felt, coming in small groups and studying in the book­storn. Tim storn's director has nven seen one stu­dPnt lying clown ttnd studying in f'ront of' the fire­place, one of Lhe bookstore's homier touches. 
"This is for tlrn students," says O'Connor. "II' 11ny­01w has any commnnts for improvenrnnt, my door is 1ip1in. I mean that." 
Owrall, it is an attractive store, and Notrn Dame is f'ortunall~ to havn il. Them will always be lhosc who raise objcr.tions whnn changes arc mad(]. such as, "It's in B.F.E.!" or "Wlrnn am I over going to trust mysnlf enougl1 tu huy a $200 Watnrf'ord bowl''" But l'or most pcoplii, including thosp who havn the largest say iu such matt1,rs, tho store's lm1wfits 11utw1iigh such complaints. 
It's a nico placn f'or stud1111ts Lo shop in, and it will 
lo,1t oftive) 

Bookstore Ratings 
Convenience  
Physical···~Attractiveness  0  
····~  u  
T  
Store Layout Variety •••••••Comfortability Pricing •••  0 F F I V E  

in !Iii' olcl lllliiding. Buokstor,~ direr.I.or .Jim briug loads ol' rnvunue to tlw school. As a place the O'Co1111or's rnspo11sn 111 this issun was, "I think it's UnivMsity can show off to prospnctive professors .. worth thP walk." · without embarrassment. Hammes also gives our ~ 
Tiu• rur-r1•11t location was tlw lwst spacu availahlo parents and alunrni u nice place to gather and shop. 
-----.---..-.--------...... ..,---------....----------------------~----_____ 
page 14 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS 
¦ NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION 


Spurs gaining ground in Midwest 
Associated Press 
SAi\' ANTONIO The San Antonio Spurs are winning again. 
More important. they're winning on tlrn road and have mason to lrnlieve thny can capture their division. 
"We'ni moving up thfl ladder a bit because we were pretty far down the ladder for a while." Spurs coach Gregg Popovich said Monday. 
They were 6-8 in february, tlwn regrouped to win 10 of 11 games in :'vlarch, with seven victories in the streak coming on the road. 
Now. midway through this shortened NBA season. San Antonio is I(i-9, three games behind Utah in the Midwest Dh·ision The Spurs and Houston Hockr.ts were tied for second entering Mnnday night. 
"We've befln able lo gain some ground on Utah," point guard :\very Johnson said. "This is another week where we can't have any slipuµs because you don't when Utah is going to lose again. And we d~n·t pl~y them until the end of April. , 
The Spurs could be hum­ming by then. They play seven of their next eight games at home. beginning Tuesday night against Denver. 
So far, San Antonio has played just l O games in the Alamodome, tying Sacramento for the fewest home games in the confereno:. The Spurs arc 7-3 in those games. 
"We must try to continue to establish some home-court advantage at the dome this year going into the playoffs," Johnson said. "We've got to get .some confidence in our own building." 
San Antonio is getting a boost from the schedule now. In February, the Spurs played Utah, the Los Angeles Lakers and Seattle twice and Minnesota three times. 
The recent winning streak 
included victories over Dallas, 
Denver, Sacramento, Golden 
_, 

State and Vancouver -all teams with losing records. On Friday, San Antonio lost to Portland, which is tied with Utah for the lead in the Western Conference. 
A concern for the Spurs has been David Robinson. The 33­year-old center is averaging 
14.4 points a game, down from 21.6 points last year. He's scored only 21 points in the last three games com­bined. 
Popovich benched Robinson in the final minutes of the fourth quarter in two road games last week, choosing to go with Malik Rose. 
Robinson said after practice Monday it hurts him not to be playing with the game on the line. 
"That'd be an understate­ment," he said. "Sitting on the side you have no powe·r to help at all. It's like being a fan over there. \Vhen I'm in there at least I feel like I can make things happen." 
Robinson has seen second­year star Tim Duncan, a fel­low ?-footer, become the team's leading scorer with an average of 21.6 points a game. 
Robinson said he is trying to improve his shot. He's encour­aged by a key jumper he made in overtime Saturday in a vic­tory at Vancouver. 
Tuesday, March 23, 1999 
¦iSKllfllG 

:~a, Shaffer advance a.t/411;U:S:': Nationals 

Associated .Press 

HUNTSVILLE. Utah 
Jakul:J Fiala had the luck of 
the draw; Alex Shaffer made 
aJLhcr own luck. 
Both skiers emerged from 
a busy day at the U.S. 
Na.thrnal Chantpionships on 
Monday with the first titles 
of.their careers. Fiala won 
the men's super•G at 
Snowbasin Ski Resort. while 
Shaffer won the women's 
giant slalom at Park City 
MO'untain RBsort. 
Fiala was the fastest skier 
on a course in misi:irable 
shape a:fter over a week of 
unpredictable, unseasonable 
weather. 

Rain on Sunday further 
destabilized large sections of 
the run which had been 
rnfMting for days, and round­
the-clock work was largely 
unable to improve the condi­
tiom,. 

As the t.hird skier down the 
course, however, Fiala was 
able to catch the snow in its 
best possible shape. 
"I was just lucky to get to 
go .when I did." said Fiala. a · New Mexico native who now lives in Breckenridge, Colo. "I had probably the best oppprtunity of anybody to get sorne speed ... and I was for­tunate to dn it.... It was luck, basically," 
Fiala finished in 1:15.51, 
edging national downhill t;hampion Chad Fleischer, who came in at 1 :15.80. Pre­race favorite Daron Rahlves started after both Fiala and ,Fle}sch(;ir, and he slammed his helmet to the ground in ·fr14f;ratipt1. af~er finishing his . 
third~place.runin l:16.12. 
"lt V"4S j~st .. terrible,"
Rah.Ives said of the ·course. 
"The weathe.f hasjust made 
Cit . . tiJ(lUS PP there." 
course conditions were 
l911sJn (Park...•(:ity,
affet· emerged vic­
torious in.· the firsttechnical 
<:~;:j:{':i,)}, 


event of the six-day competi­tions. Shaffor, whose family moved to Park City from Aspfln last year. felt right at homo. 
"I haven't won a race in three years, so I don't know what to think," .she said. 'Tm in outer space right now. It's definitely a nice surprise for the end of the season, and it's even better to do it at home." 
Shaffer was in f"irsl place after both runs, and sho was able to conclude an uneven international season with a win. 
Her best World Cup results have come in slalom. making her a solid ravorite for Wednesday's championships in the discipline. 
''I'm definitely not a moi:wtone person. I nofld ups and downs to get me focused," she said. "Without that I'm lost. Some people don't know how to deal with it, lbutl I need some high stress points to knep me moving." 
But even more nf a sur­prise than Shaffer's win was the very presence of thfl skier who finished second. Sarah Schleper. who was in the midst of a breakout yoar on the World Cup circuit when she wrecked her knee in France in December, skied her first race since tlrn injury. 
As recently as Friday, she hadn't expected to compete at the national champi­onships. But she received clearance from the team's medical staff and nearly landed her second straight national GS title. She won the event last yoar in Jackson Hole, Wyo. 
"I wanted to win, but I'll settle for second place," Schleper said. 'Tm glad I was able.to get back so soon, and I'm looking forward to the slalom.~ 

Classifieds  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content wirhouc issuing refunds.  
Freshamn taking gen chem looking STAYING IN SOUTH!LOST & FOUND' for a roomate for the summer THE SUMMER???  BEND FOR NEED 2 graduation lix Buongiorno, Principessa! The Observer Sports department Call John @271-8531 extends its congratulations to  
session. Lovely five-bedroom,  single family Stress stress stress. James Coburn, for earning best  
Lost: 100 CDs that were in a black Call Peter at 4-0992 if interested. house available for sCaseLogic carrying case. Lost in About a mile from ca ub-lease. supporting actor in 'Affliction'.PERSONAL mpus. lo amo Benigni, ii girasole d'ltalia.  
LaFortune the night of 2126/99. Molly McGuire's Coffee House ·a Safe neighborhood.  Whoop! Whoop! Whoop!  
Monetary reward being offered if great place to work!" Clean. Two window  Fax i1 fast al THE COPY SHOP in The end.  
found. No questions asked. immediate /summer air-conditioners.  Lafortune. FAX Sending and It's that time of the classifieds,  
Please call Brian at 4-1126 w/ any help needed. Applications avail-Washer and dryer, st ove, refrige. Receiving: 631-FAX1 Nope, it's only the beginning. Siegfried 4B! This week's OONT'S  
info. able. Call 634-0562 for info . of running a fantasy baseball  
When you need copies ... The desk phantom rides again! league.  
LOST: Gold Locket, Oval ­if Mystery Shoppers Wanted Second floor apt. ava ilable for sum• We're OPEN!!! Yippee-yi-ki-yeah!  
found: call Victoria, x4659 You dine.We pay. mer at College Park.  THE COPY SHOP Pitfall #43: Your star hitter, Nomar  
2 years professional bar/dining 2 bed/ 2 bath,  Lafortune Student Center Or something like that... Garciaperra, gets sent to the hospi­ 
experience required. washer/dryer, A/C.  631-COPY tal due to an MRI. 

WANTED 
Why not enjoy a meal out on us? 
Call PDB Management Company 

Babysitter needed in my 1 ·888-656-7999. 
home.Flexible day time hours.Call 
243-5540. 

FOR RENT 

SUMMER EMPLOYMENT: 
ART EDUCATION WALK TO SCHOOL ASSISTANT 2-6 BEDROOM SNITE ART MUSEUM.Get STARTING $185 teaching experience while MONTH/PERSON 
making a difference in South 232-2595 
Bend'Assist Education 
Curator with summer youth BED 'N BREAKFAST 
art program focusing on REGISTRY 
museum objects and art 219-291-7153 making.June 1-July 30,15-20 hours per week.Fine Arts &educa-House For Rent 
lion majors with exp 4-5 Bedroom 
teaching &/or working with Close to Campus 
children preferred.INCLUDES Includes: Dishwasher, 
ROOM & BOARD June 20 Washer/Dryer, 
July 30. Fridge, Stove 
(6I20-7/30,additional Work Remodeling Kitchen Study hours-if eligible-wi1h in spring. National Youth Sports RENT REDUCED! Program.for total 40 hrs/wk if Call 289-4712 
desired)CALL ASAP for 
application form 631-4435 5/6 BDRM HOMES. NEAR CAM-
App. deadline April 6. PUS. FURN. 212-6551 
Call 271-8966 
FURN. ROOM;FURN. ONE BED· ROOM APT;PRlVATE ENTRANCE,AIR, KITCHEN, LAUNDRY, PHONE,UTILITIES INCLUOED,5 MIN N. CAMPUS 272-0615 


FOR SALE 
NEW Rates Phone Cards 282 min. $20 call 258-4805 
Beautiful brass bed.queen size.with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame New.never used.still in plas­tic.$235 219-862-2082 
New Notebook Computer 200MHz,32MB,2 1GB for sale. Hurry up. Denis 634-4551 


TICKETS 
I need graduation tickets! Call Kelly @243"-8932 
Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight Fri: 7:30am-7:00pm Sat: Noon-6:00pm Sun: Noon-Midnight 
COUNTDOWN TO THE •• LEWIS CRUSH •• 18 DAYS will YOU be invited? 
My.momma always said, "life is like a cappuccino from Molly's, you never knew how good it could get!" 
My Momma always said, ''You stupid kid, what is the matter with you?" 
THE COUNTDOWN IS ON: 
2 112 weeks 
THE FLORIDA EVANS SHOWBAND AND REVUE's 
17 song cd see Florida Evans this Friday at 18195 Bulla Road 

The desk phantom needs a new sidekick. Are you that lucky person. Pitfall #44: Your ace closer, a cer-If so, give us a call. tain Mr. Wetteland, is placed on hte 
disabled list tor the beginning of the So, you want to know the desk regular season. 
phantom's secret identity? Well, he's none other than mild-man-And now, an obituary... 
nered reporter ... 
Not tonight! That's right! It's N-0-P Nah.. we'll let this live on a little classifieds. That stands for 'No while longer. Obituaries for Pets'. All of you out 
there in the land of the Frozen Scoonie-ball? I don't think so. Catholics knew you wanted it. 
Well, I don't think we"II have to put Could I possibly finish all these per-up wlih preclicl1ons anymore, sonals, all by my lonesome? 
I need a raise This one goes out to all my buddies in Siegfried 48 
No, really, Brian. I need a raise. 
Hey, news guy, how come we Majerus-ball? Hrnmm ... l like the never find the temperature in sound of that. Rockland, Maine? Are we a little bit 
biased towards non-Downeasters? COUNTDOWN TO THE 
•• RAMBLER SCRAMBLER ,. Revers, once again, thanks for 19 DAYS pulling these suckers in tonight. (or something along those lines) will YOU be invited? The end. who won't be? No really! 
.... 

'[i.1esday, March 23, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS ·page 15 
¦ NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE ¦ NCAA 


Harbaugh signs with Chargers Four athletes seek 
Assncia1ed Press 
SJ\N l>IE<;o 
i\h~x Spanos wekonwd Jim ltarhaugh as only an impa­tiPnt owrwr could. 
.'\f'l.nr watching his San lli1~go Chargnrs win just nine ganws tho last two snasons, dun larg1dy to sonw disas­trous play at quartnrhack, Spanos dnlivnrnd thn samn i111 passion n d s p n 11 ch ho always givns to major acquisi­tions. 
"Ji111. I tl'II you what, I just hatP losing," Spanos said at a 11 (' W S (' () (I f{' r O n Ce M O n d a y 
introducing Ilarhaugh as the !.Pam's n1~w quartnrback. "You'rp lwrn to help us win, and IH'lil~vn me, I'll Im right thPrn wilh you. I prornisn you. A sigh ol' rnlid' knowing that .Jim llarhaugh is sitting to my l'igh t." 
Spa1111s handPd llarbaugh 
h is  No .  -1  j nrs ny .  tlw n  
1·111lHan·d  his ,ww quarl<'r­ 
ha,·k.  

"Jim. I wunl l.o llwnk you I IPII you, y11u',p PXriLnd all ol' us. mP PspPcially." 
Funny. bul Spanos made similar statements to Hyan Leaf last year. both whun the Chargers made him Urn sec­ond overall pick in the draft, and again when thny lavished tlw rookin with a $31.25 mil­lion contract. But that was bnforn Leaf's meltdowns. on and off tlrn field, that led to thn Chargers (5-11) seeking a veteran quarterback. 
Spanos said after Monday's 111\WS conference that he still believes Leaf will be as good as lw was once advertised. 
"Ite's just going to learn as h1\ goes along. And it's going to take some time. I've gone through two years, that's nnough. Hight now, I want to start winning. That's why he .(.ltarbaugh) is here," Spanos said. 
"I likn that intensity," said Harbaugh, who added that he owns a 20-perccnl stake in an Indy Hacing League team and understands wanting lo sec an inv1\stment do well. "I can apprl'cialn Mr. Spanos· dnsire to win. I'm lwrn. I want to lwlp." 
Harbaugh was acquired from the Baltimore Havens 1'or a conditional fifth-round pick in the 2000 draft. Under con­tract for $3.25 million for 1999, Harbaugh took a pay cut lo join thn Chargers, agreeing to a $2.75 million, two-year deal. plus incen­tives. By comparison, the Chargers have already paid Leaf $8.3 million of his $11.25 million signing bonus. 
Harbaugh, 35, is entering his 13th NFL season. He's been on six playoff' teams, including the 1995 Indianapolis Colts. who embarrassed tho defending AFC champion ChargP-rs 35­20 in a wild-card game in San Diego. The Chargers haven't benn back to the playoffs or had a winning season since. 
"I feel like a young 35, if them is such a thing," llarbaugh said. "J\ little lread's come off the tirns after about 12 years of play­ing, but I really look forward to working back into shape. I look forward to that every y11ar." 

tAOO 1J(}J@ {!@rJJ ~···••·®·t)@ ... J~!@t?ifrutJ40~t
.. ® 
::·_·,, <·•":<-'..=\.,:i."'=.='=i::, -::°''-'::-.c··.::::··•·'.•''"•"'.i::" J}.-J~·'<i· '•;'~•··:•·:,:/ .,:,:·_: :'::=:·,-.-.=":',: : 


. '' ~-. 

~@Lru.~®f I~@J@.:."..;;;
'• . . : • ',:•. ·. ·' > ., 
aa.1. .... 
VARSITY SHOPVARSITY SHOP



,.•. Baseball .... 
vs. ;~ ,£ ,. 

Western Mich1g'8n 
Tuesday, March23rd at 5:00p:,::p.
~-­
.·,. 
All.:~hdents get ii:1 FREE!!!! 
..z 

answers on Prop. 16 
Associated Press 
PlllLADELPI Iii\ 
Lawyers for four athletes have asked a federal judge to clarify letters tbc NCAA sent to its Division I schools after the judge struck down the association's use of minimum test scores to determine fresh­men eligibility. 
The lawyers want the NCM to assure schools they will not be penalized if they use fresh­men players suddenly made eligible by the Proposition 16 ruling -even if that ruling is later reversed. 
In responsn, the NCAA on Monday asked U.S. l)isirict Judge Ronald Buckwalter to refrain from ruling on llrn lawyers' requnst until a feder­al appeals court rules on the organization's appeal of the initial Proposition 16 decision. 
On March 8, Buckwalter declared that tlrn minimum standardiznd test score requirements have "an unjus­tilied disparate impa!'t against African-Americans." 
The letters the NCAA sent. last week lo thn :-m2 Division I schools offer dirnctinn to coaches and athletic dirnctors suddenly stripped of a kny recruiting guideline, NCAA spok1iswoman Jann Jankowski said Monday. 
The correspondenco includes refernncn to Arlicl,\ 
19.8 of the NCAJ\'s 1998-99 Division I ruins manual, which states that the association could strike statistics or championships from Lim record books if a court ruling like Buckwaltnr's is vacatod, 

¦ SPORTS BRIEFS 

stayed or reversed on appeal. 
"What it does is lrnlp give a few general guidnlinns to member institutions and guidelines on the court rul­ing," Jankowski said. 
But in court pap11rs filed Friday, lawyers for Urn four black plaintiffs wroto that cit­ing the article is "tantamount to the NCAA advising its mnm­bers that 'ii' you honor and heed the Court's permanent 
injunction, you do so at your  
peril."'  
The  lawyers  asked  

Buckwaltnr to dirnct tlrn NCAA to inform its Division I schools that the article "has no forcn or effect on any member who recruits, o!Tnrs athletically-rnlated l'inancial aid or al.lows a stuclnnt-athlntn to cmnpnte" if that studnnt­athletn has not attairwd thn minimum I.Psi scorns that were struck down in tlw judge's ruling last wnok. 
NCAA lawy1\rs havP said in court that the imruNliatn Plim­ination or Proposition Ifl could cause chaos among its nwm­lrnr schools. 
Thn articlP thniatPllS lo strike individual and f Palll sla­t.ist.ics and championships !'rom tlw record books "in tlw intornst of' rnstitution and f'air­ness lo competing institu­tions.'' 
Tlw Third Circuit of' tlw U.S. Court of Appeals is wnighing wlrntlwr givP the NCA,\ morn time to devolop new !'rl•shrnan Hligibility guiclPlines. a dPlay Buckwaltnr rl'fusnd to grant tlwm last wnPk. ThP NCAA also plans to appeal tlrn initial ruling to tho appnals court. 
Weekend Racquetball Tournamtmt -Sign up now ut RecSports for tho weekend racquetball tournament to b,: lrnld on Friday and Saturday, April 9 and 10. Bring your own rac­quet and your best game to the Joyce Center Courts. Men's and women's divisions. Cost is $8.00. D<'adline is Wednrsday, April 7. Bulls will be provided and T-shirts will be given to all participants. Refreshments will be served. For more informa­tion, conta.ci the R(,cSports ofike at 1-6100. 
Casting and Angling -Clinic will be offered on April C,, L3. 20 (Tuesdays) from 6-7:15 p.m. in the Joyce Center and cam­pus lakes. $8.00 class fee. Hngistor in advance at RecSports . .Join Dan Bucha, Certified American Casting Association Instructor, for three evenings of bait casting, 11y-casting, spin­ning and fishing. Equipment. will be provided but bring your own if possibln. Contact RecSports at 1-6100 for moro infor­mation. , 
Christmas in April Benu11t Hun will be held 011 Saturday, April 10 at 11 a.m. Join us in St<'pan Center for a 5K or IOK run or 2 mile walk. T-shirts to all finisl1C'rs ! Cost is $6.00 in advance or $7 .00 the day of the race. Register at HecSports. All proce<~ds to benefit Christmas in April. 
The Notre Dame football team is looking for punters and placekickers who are interestlid in kicking for the Irish during spring practice, which gets underway this Saturday. Mar. 27. If interAStcd in trying out, pleaso contact Bob Chmi,,I, Coordinator of Football Operations. at 63 l·5858. 

- ==-w  --------­----_,..._._______ -­ 
,JfJf•,  f  ..  
page 16  The Observer• SPORTS  Tuesday, March 23, 1999  

¦ MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Connecticut's Freeman leads Huskies to Final Four 
Mijrn Krzyzewski said M~1.1da.y_. J3-t8,$~~pi;i tif.J, ·anil ¦ 
of Langdon. ''A lot of people this ,~,~;,~il'o~J. Fi.n!lY ¦ Applications and additional information 
never play with that monkey."·· Four ~q1.J'~tt that. on 31 ¦ Some of Langdon's shooting straight. · • 
are available at the RecSports Office, 
problems late il): those years "Wh¢n ·he walk~d' {jff the : can be traced to Duke's lack CO\lrt [S,µudlLyJ~ my'.J;fu.llfi :was ¦ 
of offense, whe-re Langqon, •a , snitfe ~fO'l'f'." · · an;'1• ¦ Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. was not only the.major optioh Kriyteifsfits~id'of ... _. a'.m's. ¦ in the team's attack. but East Regional title wjn over : 
¦

sometimes its only option. Temple.: -. •· ¦ For more info. call 1-5100 "The fact ls he hadn't sho.t,. -"Whe..ti::,(.s;iw thittkid. and ¦ like the player he .is?i;;: wat · ,,,vval\/'lit'f l • 
C

Krzyzewski said._, •.. . ) .• i<* ',Wj'' Pi :~a.(hlir : ult may be because we''\'~ . a.ge/ · ,never]tl.(Y~ been· ¦ been so dependent on hittt; 0 him 0:,_.!;/and I 
Application Deadline • April 1, 1999 
that it wasn't th(.1:!Jo~~t § -----·· iP.~l : it was.,us on h · · ¦ that: h.e bad ¦ 
www.nd.edu/,..,,recsport
¦ 

Associa te<l P re.s 
STORHS, Conn. 

1'osls1•asnn play bas been payhack time for Connecticut's Kevin Frcmnan. 
Snubbnd when it came tinw to µic k t lw Hig East's first, second or third all-conferrrn;e teams. tlw power forward's rebounding and clutch shoot­ing hav,i helped carry the Huskies (32-2) to their first Final Four. 
Fr11eman had 13 points and a carer'r-high 15 rebounds ­l O off tlw offensivP buards ­in UConn 's h7-h~ win against Gonzaga to adntncc to St. PP!Prsburg. Fla. In Lhe final minutt>s. he hit two frt>e throws to give UConn the lead for good at 57-5.'J and then ic'cd th(' gamr with two more from the line with 6.2 seconds left. 
With the game on the line, then• W<'rc no butterfliQs. Just net. 
"Hopd'ully I cun have that sanw confidencfl and God will 
¦ MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Langdon reversing 






postseason wo@s 
. 

Associated Press  Maybe we've just given him a  
little hit more help.  
DURHAM, N.C.  "Trajan is not ,one who  
Trajan Langdon has been  would ev-er succumb to pres~  
Duke's money player the last  sure. but he is a human being  
three seasons, the guy the  and he can get worn down.  
Blue Devils go to for clutch .3­ He got worn down because he  
pointers and smooth baseline  carried us.,...... further probably  
jumpers.  than 111/,e­sho'uhl,< have  
That was until the postsea­ advane()<fa couple oftlmes."  
son rolled around, where  Langdon, one of the best  
Langdon was a major flop in  free-throw shooters in  
1997 and '98.  Atlantic Coast Conference his~  
He shot 19-for-68 from the  tory and a 44 perce-i)tthr'ee­ 
field l28 percent}, including  point shooter tllis year, said  
11-for-38 from bevond the  he didn't give his postseason  
arc as the Blue De;ils were  shooting troubles a. thought.  
ousted from the NCAA tour- That is until the media. brings  
nament by Providence and  it up. _ _  
eventual national champion  "You guys put Jt in my  
Kentucky the last two sea- mind. That1 s all you guys  
sons.  talked about," Langdon told  
The 6-foot-3 senior rectified  reporters Monday: "I wasn't  
his tournament shooting woes  concerned about it.  
in a major way the last two  I wanted to do well. and  
weeks.  then 1 tame dowllwith the  
Duke (36-1) now heads to  foot injury, all I was thinking  
the national semifinals  about was getting back on the  
against Michigan State with a  court."  
sizzling shooter in its already  He did admit there is less  
potent arsenal. After missing the first tour- pressure on his shooqng this year with a host· df other  
nament game against Florida  offensive options.  
A&M with a fool injury,  "ft is a different mindset. l  
Langdon has gone 19-for-30  put too -much pres~mre on  
in his last tbree games,  myself in.toe po~tset\~nthese  
including 11-for-18 from  last coup · fyears:'.;W~ haVe  
three-point range in winning  such a lented t~~m they'.  
the East Regional MVP  really don't need my shot, or  
award.  if I dort't shoot.well we-can  
''There are monkeys [on  win. W:e'ye_ ov~:n i.yon big  
youi; backl and then thei-¢ ~r~  when1fia~e:ti,'fshot,'1'¥¢lh'.'  
monkeys, and if the monkey is  • Krz~ewsict said b~.J~els a  
how well you've done in late  spccial;bi,nd withI::-a~gdon,  
post.-,eason play that's a good  who helped bridge the gap  
monkey to have on," coach  betweeri:'.P,:u_kfs <ff .-trpus  

bless me with the same strokes to allow the ball to go in," Freeman said Monday. "It's just a matter of focus." 
The Huskies, winners of the West Regional, take on Ohio State on Saturdav. The Buckeyes (27 -8) adyanccd to the Final Four with a 77-74 South Regional final win against St. John's. 
Three weeks after the con­ference snub, the accolades are mounting. Freeman was named to the West Regional All-Tournament team. And his performance in the conference tonrnament earliPr this month earned him Most Outstanding Player honors. 
His award-winning efforts aren't anything out of the ordinarv for thf' 6-foot-7 junior. say his teammates and coach. 
"He has the incrediblf' abili­ty to will himself to do things," said coach Jim Calhoun. "ile's done it in a humble sort of wav" 
{'.a0 lhoun said he marvPled a.t 
Fr.tieman's 10 offensive boards against the Bulldogs. 
"It was absolutely phenome­nal," Calhoun said. "Coaches just don't marvel when you've had the great fortune to have some grnat players play for you." 
The team's leading rebound­er, the muscular Freeman is averaging 7.3 boards a game. With 12.6 points a game, he's the third top scorPr behind the higher profile tandem of All­American Richard Hamilton and flashy point guard Khalid El-Amin. 
Wh<'n they've gone cold at times -El-Amin was 0-for-12 

Got Sports? Fill us in. Call 1-4543. 
ATTENTION ALL STUDENTS 
interested in the Rhodes and Marshall Scholarships 
Professor Donald Sniegowski will discuss the scholarships and inform you of deadline dates and the Fall application process on 
Wednesday, March 24, 1999 
6:00 p.m. 138 DeBartolo 
If you are unable to attend this meeting, a sheet of info:m/ion may be obtained in 102-B O'Shaughnessy Hall after the meetmg date. 
¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ • ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ • • ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ • ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦ • ¦ ¦ ¦ 
¦ 
• • : 
¦ ¦ 
• • : ¦ • • : 
¦ ¦ ¦ 
• 
• 


Are you interested in 
•


representing campus recreation users? Now Forming . . . . . • • • • • 
• 

~7 
-





Re.:::..--~.,--__.. -----
Aclvisory Board 
against  Gonzaga  - the  
Huskies  look  inside  tu  
Freemen and get results.  

"Kevin brings toughness. Ile brings it consistently,» said center .lake Voskuhl. "He's playing tlrn hest basketball right now that he's played since he's been here. The sky's the limit for him." 
Precman and the 6-11 Voskuhl have played together for thrne years, and with the addition of' 6-8 sophomore Edmund SaundP.rs, arp, formi­dable in the post. The three combine for nearly 1<) boards a game and can rPad Pach other like a road map. 
They decided early on in the sucnnd half of the Gonzaga game to get every rebound. 
"I just  lookfld  at  Knvin.  
Kevin looked  at  me,"  said  
VoskuhL  

The II uskies wPnt on to get l O second-chance points in the last eight minutes. 
"I think the communication. esp<icially with me and .Jake down low, is something that devdops ovP.r time. We havn a natural bond." said Freeman. 
Friwman said he's put the 13ig East snub bnhind him and just tries to provn every game he's one of tlrn top players in the nation. 

Tuesday, March 23, 1999 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
ll·MEN's CoLlEGE BASKETBALL
¦ PROFESSIONAL GOLF ASSOCIATION 
Alford steps in as
Hall of Fame inducts two golfers 
Associated Press 
ST. AUGUSTIN!!. Fla. 
Thn World (;oil' Hall of Fanw nrndti room Monday for a littlo girl who couldn't livti without gotr and a dashing Spaninrd who gaw golf lilh. 
SPVP Balltisteros and Amy Alcott. who nach start11d with nothing morP than a sawPd­down club and big dreams, wnri• indurtPd into tlw hall along with !Im latn Lloyd Mangrum. a World War II vnt.­Pran and U.S. OpPn champi­on. 
"Who was going to l1\ll nw that a lit.ti,• hov who slarti•d as a caddif' i~1 l't-drP111t, a small villag,i in Spain, would IJ,, hPrl' today," said llallPstPros, th" wi,irwr or f'iw 111 ajor r ham p io nsh i ps and 111•arlv 80 lournam,•Hts aroun;I llll' world. 
With 11 lllt'mlH•rs or !hi' llall ol' html' looking on undPr II hinting Sllll, I.II!' i11ductio11 or llall1·st1•ros. AIC'olt and !\langrulll liroughl till· nu111­lll'r to 7(, ol" !host• l'llshri11Pd al tit,· World c;otl' Vil lag,~. 
'Tm a littll' numb." AlcoLI said. "I look down that list and l'vp takl'n my placP." 
llallPslt'ros was P!Pctnd last yPar 011 tlw inlPrnalional hal­iot but dPf't•tTl'd his includion 
until Monday. 
Ali·otl, wi1osc, 2<J victorins i11.-ludl' l'iv,, major rhampi­onsllips. hPcam1\ Pligihl«' in F" b r II a r v w h " n !Ill' LI' (; !\ r.ha11gPd its 1TilNia. Mangrum was PhH·lPd on tlw PCA Tour ballot in Ortolwr. 
" ( ;011· ga VP a Ii ttlP girl tlrn Iii"«' shl' imaginnd sitting in l'ro11t of' a LPlnvision," Alcott said. 
"1 was llll'SIIWrizPd by tlw rhvthm of LIH· swing, tlw soi111d of tin• golf' ball. Lill' wlwlt> dan,·P. 
"It's hl'P n a gr1•a t. cl an en. 
and I hope to keep dancing." 
Ballesteros and Alcott grew up in difl'c1rnnt worlds and played different tours. All that links them is the way they dis­covnred golf -Alcott with a cut-dowu club she used tn toar up her yard in Santa Monic,t, Calif., Ballesterns with a three-iron that taught him shots rcw others would even dream of hitting. 
"I have a lot of imagina­tion," Ballesteros said. "That came from 11\arning the game with only o,w club." 
The 4·1-year-old Spaniard madP a s1rnctacular dehut at. tlw I 9 7(, British Open at 
'IFEEL VERY PROUD TO 
HELP THE PEOPLE BACK IN EUROPE. I WAS THE ONE WHO OPENED THE DOOR FOR THEM. AND I FEEL VERY GOOD ABOUT THAT.' 
SEVE BALLESTEROS 
PHo Gou-EH 
Hoval Birkdale. Although lw lo;t a third-round lead to .Johnny Millm·, his bump-and­ru n that threadud two hunkers on lhr. closing holn scrvncl notice that there would ,rnvPr bn a dull moment when he was around. 
lln won the Open three years later at Hoyal Lytham & St. Annes, making a birdin from a parking lot on the 16th hole in the final rnund. Ballesteros won two more British Opens, along with the Masters in 1980 and 1983. 
fin also lrncame the heart and soul or tlw Hyder Cup, his intensity and determination making it the biggest world­
wide event in golf, and he was idolized by today's young 

Iowa head coach 
stars in Europe. 
"Obviously, Arnold Palmer did more in Amnrican than I did in Europe," Ballesteros sa.id. "I feel very proud to help the people back in Europe. I was the one who opened the door for them. And I t'eel very good about that." 
Alcott's impact on women's golf goes beyond the record she shares with .Jot\nne Carner for winning at least once her first 12 years on tour. 
She's responsible for victo­ry splash at the Nabisco Dinah Shorn, which bngan when slrn won in 1988. 
She took host Dinah Shorn into tho pond with hnr in 1991, tlrn last timtl Alcott won on tour. 
She would have 1weded 01w more victory to get into tlw I !all of Fanrn under tho prnvi­ous requirnmc\nts, which were• so difficult that it was regard­<' cl tlrn to ug Im st s Ii ri n n in sports to nntnr. 
Under tlrn new points sys­tem approved in February, Alcott would have qualified 14 years ago. 
Mangrum won most of his 36 victories after an Army career that Look him to Omaha Beach on D-Day and earned him two Purple Ilearts. 
lln won thn 1946 U.S. Open, was a memlrnr of five Ryder Cup teams and won the Vn jrdon Trophy twice. 
He was rnpresented by his stepson and was introduced by Byron Nelson. 
"I-le was a great golfer who was somewhat forgotten," Nelson said. "Ile was a tough competitor and an excellent putter. /\ny time you beat him, you could know you were playing well." 
A$8(lciated PrcSll 

IOWA CITY, Iowa 
The last time. Steve Alford 
•was in the Big Ten Conference, he was a sharpshooting guard at (ndiana. 
Alford returned Monday as Iowa's new baskethall coach. 
Alford, who guided Southwest Missouri State to the NCAA tournament's Sweot 16, was hired to replace Tom Davis, whose contract was not renewed after 13 ynars in Iowa City. 
Alford, 34, made it clear he intimds to stay in Iowa City a long time. 
"lam a Big Ten person. Now ram in the Big Ten." said Alford, a two-timCi All­American who led the I Inosiers to the NCAA title in J987 and was the school's No. 2 career scorer with 2,438 points. 
"There is no need to be look­ing anywhere else. This is where I would like to call home for a long, Jong time," hu said. 
His father. Sam, who will join him at Iowa as an assistant, said that was his take on his son's new job. 
"I think this could be a long• term project," Sam Alford said. "He would like it to be the final mo.ve in coaching for him. Money was not the top priority. l think being in the Big Ten is th-0 big priority in this Job. 
Alford accepted a five-year contract that calls for a base salary of about $350,000 annually. He made about $188,000 at Southwest Missouri State. 
·. With camps, shoe-and-cloth· ing contracts and broadcasting contracts, that could swell to about $600,000, Iowa athletic director Bob Bowlsby said. Additional, incremental incen­tives wUI be negotiated ttrnt would put Alford "in the $900,000 range," he said. 
Alford, who led the Bears to a 22-11 mark this season, was 78-48 at Southwest Missouri State. l·fo began his coaching carQer at Manchester Collego in 1992 and took the team to the NCAA Divlslon l11 title game in l 995 before moving on to SMS. 

His career coaching record is 156-77 in eight seasons. 
"I can't he more excited about Orn future of the Iowa basketball program," said Bowlsby, who has bePn looking for Davis' replacement. since April. 
"Over that period of time, I spoke with dozens of people about potential basketball coaches. A few names kflpt coming up over and over and over again. and one of those was Stove Alford," Bowlshy said. 
Davis was 269-140 at Iowa but fell out of favor bm:auso ho never won a conference title. The Hawkevus linish1id 20-10 this season -thuir f'if'th straight 20-win season -after NCAA tounwy wins againsl Alpbanrn-Birminghum c1nd Arkansas. 
Their season, and Davis' Iowa earner, end11d last Thursday when they lost 78-68 to Connecticut in tlrn WPst Regional semifin,tl. 
Tho Bears beat Wisconsin and Tennessee in the first two rounds of tournament play before falling 78-61 to top­ranked Duke in the NCAA East Regional semifinal last Friday . 
"IL was kind or like match play -Iowa advanced and I knew we needed to advance," said Alford, who said he and Bowlsby had reached a ''gen­tlemen's agreement" by mid­February. 
Alford said he hopes to have his coaching staff completed in the next twc1 weeks. He s11.id he would talk with current [own a..-;sistant Rich Walker. 
He also said the current Hawkoyes need to share his passion for the game while shooting for a conference title and a shot at a national cham­pionship. 
"If it's not the goal they want, then there's probably going to be more changes," Alford said. "I'm not in the business to beg. I don't beg people lo play or to come to the University ot' ]own. Hopefully, the individµal play­ers that make up Uw team right now are going to have the samC' vision that I havci. ·• 

ATTENTION SENIORS 
STILL INTERESTED IN A TEACHING SERVICE PROGRAM? 
Come to the Center for Social Concerns 
March 25 or March 26, 1999 
for information and/or interview. 
In the new millennium. you will be participating in the challenge of urban education by teaching in an inner city Catholic high school, living in community and experiencing the cultural richness of New York. 
Set up an interview with Sister Deanna Sabetta at the Center before March 24. 
Come and find out about 
"a year to remember and an experience you will treasure." 
Oetfu-e/#'1-,,, Tiu !k/~ Pizza,! l;3@~\1 {l[b© © . ©@fk l](!]@@cO~~ijg  
9  Anytime Anytime you call between you call between 10:30-12:595:30 & 7:00, the price of yourthe price of your 2 large 1 large 1 topping topping pizzas pizza is the time you call.is the time you call. * Plus tax* Plus tax  
r---Lunch Special---7 : Small 1 Topping 1 : 2 cans of Coca-Cola product: Saint Mary's/ND store 99L __ ---$5·---..: ­-' North Village Mall271-1177 271-PAPA  

page 18 The Observer. SPORTS Tuesday, March 23, 1999 
¦ BOXING 

Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 

Mike Tyson won't be leaving a Maryland jail for at least another month. 
Although a judge might reduce the former heavy­weight champion's one­year sentence for assault in Maryland to time already served, Tyson then would would have to begin serving 60 days for violat­ing terms of his Indiana probation for a 1992 rape conviction. 
"The bottom line is, even if the Maryland sen­tence is modified, he will not be released from jail on Friday," spokeswoman Beverly Phillips of the Marion County prosecu­tor's office said. 
Tyson has been jailed in Maryland since Feb. 5 on charges he assaulted two motorists after a minor traffic accident in August. 
Tyson has requested that his assault sentence be reduced to eight months, and a hearing is set for 
Friday  at  Montgomery  
County  (Md.)  District  
Court.  

Hobert Greenberg, one of Tyson's two lawyers in the Maryland case, said last w1~ek that such a reduction could free his client from jail by Friday night. 
Marion County prosecu­tor Scott Newman, Tyson lawyer James Voyles and Marion Superior Court Judge Patricia Gifford con­l'e rre d Monday · in Indianapolis and also talked to Maryland author­ities. 
They agreed the boxer still must serve the extra time for his probation vio­lation. 
"If the judge modifies his sentence, at that point his Indiana sentence will begin," Phillips said. "There's no retroactive in any of these calculations." 
Once the Indiana sen­tence begins, Tyson could serve as little as 30 days, depending on time off for good behavior and other provisions. she said. 
That means Tyson could leave jail by April 26. 
"The integrity of both the Indiana and the Maryland sentences will be honored," Voyles said. He declined to speculate on how the court hearing Fridav will turn out or when Tyson may leave jail. 
Earlier this month, Tyson struck a deal with Newman and Maryland authorities in which he agreed to serve his Indiana jail time in Maryland after he completes his assault sentence. 
~ing:Applications for ·,,$ . ·er Rentals and 
c<·,i::/'·,_:_/' 
99:..2QOO School Year 
¦ WOMEN'S TRACIC.AND FIELD 

Belles start:strong at Wabash 
By MOLLY MCVOY 
A~si~canr Sporrs Editor 
Despite the absence 1tf many 
k9y runners, the Belles· track 
team bad an excellent start on 
Saturday at the Wa.bash Coltegp, 
Invitational. 
Saturday's meet was an all­
relay m1:>et.. and no team stand­
ings wenJ calculated. It provid­
ed valuable HXperiertoo for the 
runners and ol'ferf:'d a preview 
of sumo talent thai. will !.Hi 
appearing all soason. 
"[ am very pleased Vlith the 
oulcome on Salurday," said 
head coach Larry 
Szczechowski. "Jt is really nice, 
as a coa.d1, to see people ~omc~ 
out in the first meet and run so 
hard." 
The javelin relay, composed of junior Allyson Treloar and freshman Melissa. Goss, set a rne,et record and a school ·record witb a combined dis­tance of 201-foct-6-inches. Tho previous meet record. was also set by Saint Mary's in 1992. and Treloar·s individual throw of 119-fect-6-inches was a person­
al hiist. 

The 100 meter relay was also run well. eomposed of senior Stacy Davi-;, sophomore Kisria Born, senior captain Sarah Gall~~her, and freshman Eri.ca DeVoir. 
''I was really impressed by the team's performance," said sophomore runner Genevitwe Yavello. '"Everyone had a great attitude, and it was an awe­some start for lhe setu-;<m." 
Yavcllo was an important part of the distance medley, R relay in which four runners run 400 mct<\rs, 800 meters, 1200 meters and 1600 meters. respectively. that placed sixth on Saturday. 
This invitational included Division 1, II and III schools and included Alma College, a fellow MIAA school Saint Mary's will face at least two more times this season. 
The Bt'll~s were short several experienced and h:nportunt sprinters on Saturday, ,many because of injury or illness. They had, however. more run­ners at Wabash than they had had all last sea,<;on. The Belles· teanlis composed .o{23 run­
e:· 
ners. jumpers and throwers, up from only five members last season. 
This year, Szczechowski feels that encouragement from l'el­low runners will be a major fac• tor in the team's success. 
"We are an individual sport. but we hav11 huge t1rnrn sup­port," said Szczer.howski. 
The runners also have high hopes for the tflam this y1-1ar and are looking forward to tho beginning ofconference meets. 
"Our goal this season is to have evoryono continue to work together and to do the best we can in the conference," said Goss. 
Saint Mary's finished seventh last season with a small team. so hopes are high and the Bellc-s appear .to have a positive attitude as thry head into the rest of the season. Tlrny run next at Huntington College, again in a relay meet, this Saturday against nfoA teams from all divisions. They begin to run against MIAA teams on March 31 ut Calvin College, which will also mark the bngin· ning ofstandard meets. 


UNFORTUNATELY, TIDS IS WHERE PEOPLE ARE 
PUTTING TOO MANY RETIREMENT DOLLARS. 
Every year, a lot of people make a huge mistake on their taxes. They wind up sending Uncle Sam money they could be saving for retirement. Fortunately, that's ,a mistake you can avoid with SRAs-tax-deferred annuities from TIAA-CREF. SRAs not only ease your current tax bite, they offer an easy way to build retirement income-especially for the "extras" that your pension and Social Security benefits may not cover. Because your contributions are made in pretax dollars, you pay less in taxes now. And since earnings on your SRAs are tax deferred, your money works even harder for you. 

Today, we offer other before-and after-tax financial solutions, including IRAs and mutual funds. They're backed by the same investment exper­tise, low expenses, and personal service that have made TIAA-CREF the choice of America's educational and research community. 
Why write offthe chance for a more rewarding retirement? Stop by your benefits office or call us at I 800 842-2776 and find out how TIAA-CREF SRAs can help you enjoy happier returns. 
www.tiaa-cref.org 
Ensuring the future~ for those who shape it."" 

TIAA.~CREF Individual and lm1titutional Services, Inc., distrilrutl!!> CREF certilirate8 and inrerest:i in the TlM RcaJ &tatc Account. For more c;omplcte infonna.hon, induding charges and ""P"""''• call l800 842-2733, ext, 5509, fur CREF and TIM Real Eata.te Account prospe<:tu1e,. Road lhem carefully befo« you invest or ,end money, 12198 
Tuesday, March 23, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 19 
for Sunday, was cancelled
¦ COLLEGE BASEBALL 
due to inclement weather, 
With the losses, thr. 
continued from page 24 Mountaineers dropped to 6-<J 
Baseball 

NCAA considers longer season 
on the season. dugouts in awe. The Irish will start off their 
A,sociatcd l're;s 
OMAIIA. Nnb. 
Soulhnrn California coach Mik1i Cillespie saw Monday why many cold-weather schools support an NCI\/\ proposal to push hack the start or tlrn col!Pgn basnball snason. 
It was snowy, foggy and cold outside as Gillespie :ufdressPu about 500 Coll"'ge World Scri1:s volu11te1irs in a hotel banqucl room. 
(;illnspic, who last season l«'d tho Trojans to their first NCAA championship in 20 y1!1trs. said hn supports tlrn plan bncause il would devel­op "a morn ltivel playing l'inld." 
Tlw proposal would delay the sPason until as latu as· mirl-l;Pllnrnry, nwaning snow i11 mid-March still couldn't he avoidPd·in placns likn Omaha. c;il!nspi(• said in any casn, tlw issu1• conl.Prs not on woallwr hut 011 mo,wy. 
''At a school like use. where school is over May 5, to keep the athletes around after class is out -housing them has a big impact." Gillespie said. "I suspect that is t.hc single biggest hurdle." 
Tho prnposal would delay tho start of the season by up to thrne weeks, meaning the College World Series f;ould be pushed into July. 
Supporters claim it·s the. lwst way to equalize decades of dominance by warm­weather programs. 
Gillespie also weighed in on tho issue that won't go away: aluminum hats. 
"Everybody kind of longs for the <lays when we played with the wood bat," he said. "l think that would be the prefnrrcd bat, but again, the reality is it's all about dol­lars. 
"Whr.n vou rnalize the expense or" wood bats today, of how many you'd havn to buy to got through the wholP season, the impact on peo­ple's budgets, we might not be able to overcome that issue," Gillespie said. 
The NCAA executive com­mittee voted on Jan. 15 ­opening day for many schools -to limit aluminum bats to 2 5/8 inches in diameter and imposed weight and length limits aimed at simulating wooden bats. 
In some cases. liability con­cerns prompted some schools to switch bats in the middle of opening-day games. 
The Trojans were on the field at Texas when Gillespie learned of the limitations but he said both teams, aware of the potential ruling. already had agreed to use wooden bats for their series. 
"Right now there is a modi­fied bat, but that's what it is -it's modified," Gillespie said. "In the hands of big strong kids, it's probably not delivering the effect for which it was intendt>d." 


THE PERFECT COUPLE. NOW JUST $1.99. 

Rii.,rhr now. America's Pnvnrite B1.Jl'Wr, the WHOPPER:and a mcJium order ofthe KING OF_FRIES'" are only $1.99. Hurry in, because although they're perfect together, this de,1.l won't last a lifetime. 
The Huddle -Lafortune Student Center 
BURGER 
KING 
!ID 
It just tastes better... 
FOR A LIMITED TIME ONLY. PRICE AND PARTICIPATION MAY VARY. 

e 1999 BURGER KING CORPOR._TlON THE BU~GFR KING CORPORATION !S THE EXCLLISIYE LICENSEE Of THE KIN() OF FRIES AND -1T JUSfiASTES BETTER" TRADEMARKS ANO THE REGISTERED WHOPPE~ ANO BUN HALVES t.OGO TRA.DEMAl1t<S. 
www.burgerking.com 

In the second game, the Irish took an early lead in the first off a two-run homer by Ust, his eighth of the season. With the blast, Ust brought his career total to 27, tied for second all-lime at Noire Dame and six behind leader and current senior Jeff Wagner. The Mountaineers scored one run in the bottom of the inning, but the visitors put the game away with a thret>-run third. 
WVU attempted a three-run rally in the eighth. but it turned out tu he all the steam they had left in their oats. The Irish added an insurance run in the ninth with an RBI single by Perconte, but it would prove to bn all the offense the team needed. 
On the mound, junior left­hander Tim Kalita turned in a strung outing, tying a career high with ten strike­outs while allowing four runs on seven hits and two walks 
ovPr eight innings. 

The third game of the series, scheduled 
home stretch against Wostorn Michigan, who am on u cfif. ferent kind of stroak this sca­
sm1. 
Although the Broncos are picked to place second in the · Mid-American Confcrnnce's West Division this season, they arc currently h-8 on the season with a two-game los­ing streak. 
In their most recent loss to Austin Peay, senior center fielder Joel ·neVisser record­ed of Wfistern Michigan's five hits on the game . .Junior pitcher Matt Vricsenga took his second loss of the season in five-plus innings of work. 
While the home opener is usually as important as any other game of thn season, this game will tako on 1rnw importance due to the fact that the brunt of the Big Easl schedule follows right behind it. 
With tho winning streak still intact. a victory against the Broncos would koep tlu~ team's momentum high head­ing into confor()nco play. 
UPCOMING BASEBALL SCHEDULE Mar. 23 vs. Western Michigan Mar. 27 at Villanova Mar. 28 at Rutgers Mar. 30 at Wisconsin-Milwaukee April 1 vs. Providence April 3 vs. Connecticut April 5 vs. Detroit April 6 at Northvvestern April 7 vs. Bovvling Green April 10 vs. Pittsburgh Ohscr-·et Graphi,·IScon Ilardi  
Join a winning team. The Observer Sports Department needs writers and copy editors.  

page 20 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, Match 23, 1999 
+ Campus Ministry This Week + 






OFFICE OF CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hesburgh Library 
631-7800 
112 Badin Hall 
631-5242 Basilica Offices 
631-8463 
Web Page: 
http://www.nd.edu. /-ministry/ 

Continuing the Week of March 22 103 Hesburgh Library, 112 Badin HalL or see your rector 
Freshman Retreat #22 (March 26-27) Sign-Up 
Targeted Dorms: Alumni, Farley, Fisher, Howard, Keenan, Morrissey, O'Neill, Pasquerilla West, St. Edward's and Walsh 
Continuing Monday, March 22 103 Hesburgh Library, 112 Badin Hall, or see your rector 
Freshman. Retreat #23 (April 9-10) Sign-Up 
Targeted Dorms: Badin, Breen-Phillips, Keough, Knott, Lyons, Pasquerilla East, Stanford and Welsh Family 
Beginning Monday, March 22, 112 Badin Hall 
Sign-up for "What's The Future of This Relationship?" · Sunday, April 11. An opportunity to explore issues and questions facing couples in significant relationships. 
Wednesday, March 24, 10:00-10:30 pm, Hesburgh Library Lounge 
Inter£ aith Christian Night Prayer 
Music led by the Celebration Choir, rehearsals before the Prayer Service at 8:30 pm. 

Friday-Saturday, March 26-27, St. Joe Hall 
Freshman Retreat #22 

Friday-Sunday, March 26-28, Fatima Retreat Center 
Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #56 
Sunday, March 28 
Palm Sunday 

Hy I\IHAN KESSLER 
\poll, l.diw1 
/\f'tn h!ankini; North Carolina in tlw f'irst round of' 1111\ llllw-(iray National Classic in Montgonwry, /\la.. the No. 2h Notrn l>anw nrnn's Lennis ltiam drop1wd consecutive matclrns Lo Texas /\&:vt and T11l111w. fulling to 11-6 011 the Sl!ilSOII. 
"WP worn conlidnnL going in sinc·n wn nH1rh1Hl tlrn finals last yc\ar," said AndrPw I.al1in. wlw ·was dofoatPd in his match against TPxas A&M. "Wt> knew w1· wm·1\ morn talPnted than Nori h Carolina and if we kept om hPnds in il WH ('(}Lfld play w1dl. llnfortunaLdy, we ju;;t foll aparl" 
In Saturday's consolation rnat.C"li witli No. :w Tulann. two rritl'i11l third SPts l'lu,fod Notre llanw, and 1111' Irish f'Pll. 4-1. 
l;ivH of U1P six singl1• nrntr.iws \\'l'llt to a pivotal third SPI, but (; r"" 11 Wav" sc\ n i or ll oh Pr t Samu.-bnn, rn11k1\d 48th in singl<'s play, upsd Sl'conc!­ranl-.nd l{yan Sadiir<' ((,-l, 2-\,, h -2l . ,..,, hiIP T uIa n 1\ • s !:luis Ortner clPfl'al<•d f'rnsl11nan Cmwv Smilh H,<{, :{-h. 7-5). 
"\\;P.rl' so usPd lo !Ivan win­ning," said 1.al'lin. "\:\/1• rnunl on lliat point and wl11•11 Iii' !list, WI' lll'l'dc•d to pick up tlw PXlra load to win till' 111atd1. but we l'Pll short." 
rv! ik ko Vilja1wn of' Tulane spc·un•d !hr• linal singles point wit.Ii a (,-4, h-1 victory ovP.r Not.re· llanw's i\ndy Warford in t.lw No. 5 singlns rnalch. 
Th<' only Irish victory came al No. 3 singll's wlwrn 1\1atl Daly lopp1•cl Ho11ald Klopperl, 4-(1, 7-6 (4), 6-0. 
Tula,w clainwd tlrn doubles point with victoriPs at No. I and No. 2. Klopperl and SamuPlson ddoated Brian l'atlc\rson and Sarhire . 8-1, whi!P thP Tul1L1w's Lundlwrg 
TuesJay, March 23, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS 
¦ MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish fall to two ranked squads 
page 21 

Notre Dame Softball 
Upcoming Schedule 
3/23 at Purdue 3/27 Toledo 3/28 Bowling Green .3/30 Butler 4/1 at Illinois-Chicago4/3 Pittsburgh4/5 at Eastern Michigan4/7 at Western Michigan4/10 at Rutgers4/11 at Villanova 4/14 Indiana 4/17 Boston College4/18 De Paul 4/20 Loyola 
Ohscrvrr Ur:1ph1c/Scnll IJunly 
and  Viljarrnn  knocked  off  
Trent  Millnr  and  .Javier  
Taburga.  

"We lost tlw doubles point against Tulane and Texas A&M," said l.1111i11. 
"It's disappninting. but our guys played some Lough teams and I think .JaviM and i\aron playod wPII and it's unfortunate thoy lost a close one." 
Tlrn Irish had high hoµes al'tor blanking No. 58 North Carolina nn Thursday. hut a 5­1 loss to l'\o. 19 Texas A&M 
put Notre Dame in thn conso• lation final round. The Aggies snapped tho Irish s<wen-match winning streak in 
a lopsided showdown that saw All-American Sachire pick up the only victory !'or Notre Dame. 
Sachirc dominated his match at Nu. 1 singles, defeat­ing Slrnon Maddl!n, 6-2, 6-3. 
The other Irish µlayers, how­ever, couldn't follow suit. 
The Aggies rattled of'f straight set victories at Nos. 3­6 singles to advance to the finals with Illinois. 
The doubles point also went to Texas A&M. as Kf'ith rromm and Madden beat Patterson and Sachire (8-5) and the team of Gonzalo J\nderson and Cody llubbell outlasted Aaron Talarico and Warford (8-4). 


DISABILITYAWARENESS WEEI( AT NOTRE DAME MARCH 24-26, 1999 
Wednesday,March24th Friday, March 26th 
Simulation Day DAW Dance 
Spend the day discovering what Dance the evening away to great 
it's like to live with a disability. music with members of LOGAN's Discuss your experiences over recreation program and members dinner with other participants of the Saturday Rec student 
and students with real 
group. 

disabilities. 
Vans leave library circle for Call Rosie McDowell at 289-4831 LOGAN Center at 7:00, 7:30 & by Tuesday, March 23rd to 8:00 pm. Vans return to ND register. 
10:00 pm. 

Thursday, March 25th DAW Essay Contest 
Life after ND Express Yourself 
Discussion with Lori Miller, a '97 
Submit entries to the Center for grad, about her experiences in 
Social Concerns reception desk the academic and athletic worlds 
no later than 5:00 pm Thursday, after leaving Notre Dame. 
March 25th. Winning essay to be published in Scholastic 
7:00 pm 

Magazine on April Ist. Cash Office for Students with 
prizes awarded to top three Disabilities, Badin Hall entries. See complete guidelines at Center for Social Concerns. 
DIS/I 1/LJTYA WAR.ENESS WEEK IS CO-SPONSORED BY THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL C, JNCERNS, THE OFFICE FOR STUDENTS WITH DISABILITIES, THE EDNA K. MILLER FOUNDATION AND LOGAN. 
... 
Softball 
continued from page 24 
Purdue, said the team is ready for whatever the Boilermakers have up their sleeves. 
"We're looking really good in practice. We're zero and four against Purdue in tlrn last two years, so there's deli­nite Iy a revenge factor involved. We're ready to take care of business," \1yers said. 
Myers leads the Irish in home runs. with three clingers this season and holds a .338 batting average. 
Sophomore shortstop Melanie Alkire and senior catcher Kris McCleary each 

have two honrnrs this snason. /\lkire nchond Myers' snnti­ments of readiness for today's contests. 
Alkire noted that tlrn team focused on improvini; thl'ir defensiw1 fundanrnntals last week. 
"/\!thought thn weatlrnr was not always in our l'avor, wn wnre out thnre getting dirty and trying to improvn team clrnmistry." 
Sophomore .Jnnnif'llr Sharron will take thn mound today. 
"We've been stroni; in com­petition in the last 13 gamns. This has given us the chance to know what aspects of' our play we need to sharpen. I feel we're ready," Sharron concluded. 
Use of Observer Classifieds could increase your sales by 200 percent. See for yourself. 

William Shakespeare's 

THECOMEDY OFERRORS 
SUNDAY, MARCH 28, 1999 at 7:30 p.m. O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 

For ticket infonnation contact the Saint Mary's Box Office 
(219) 284-4626 

r·' 
----------,-----~---------­

page 22 
The Observer• SPORTS Tuesday, March 23, 1999 
She is already halfway to

While Notre Dame is no 
the total ol' 27 goals she

Albany, the Irish will have to 
achieved last year.

play tough lacrosse in order 
One of the main reasons for

to knock off this nationally 
her offensive outbursts is her

ranked team. 
quickness to the goal.

"We are an up-tempo team 
"lier overall game and

like Lhem." said head coach 
skills have improved. Plus

Tracy Coyne. "But in order to 
she is using her quickness to

win this game, we need to 
challenge for more shots,

take control of the game and 
resu !ting in more scoring

slow it down to our pace." 
chances," states Coyne.

Coyne's analysis was exem­
Sharing the scoring load

plified last year as the 
¦ WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
around is Seton llall's

Insight 
Tommy Amaker. WNDU reported thal Amaker, who continued from page 24 was a µlayer and an assist.ant
Notre Da01e travels to New York 
at Duke, has expressed inter­Notre Dame yesterday. 

est in the job.Carmody boosts a 73-14
upstan Syracuse team played with ()'Shaughnessy is class­Stove Alford can be o!Iicial­
Irish hope to 
record in three seasons at
at Moose Kraus(-' Staclium and mate Court!H'Y Calabrese who ly crossed off tlw Notrn outran Notre Dame on its is second in scoring wilh l 1 Princeton anct took the Tigers Dam,)'s list after he acccµt<:d
upset No. 19 to the NCAA Tournament in
wav to a 20-9 win. goals. including six in last the Iowa job, but just as soon 
his first two years. This year
t.'ast yn a r · s gam o saw week's game against Gannon, its one rumor di1is anotlrnr
Syracuse today Princeton lost to Xavier in tho
Syracuse pick up every loose and shoots 55 percont. arises. 
NIT quarterfinals Lhis year.
ball, then race down the field Whi!,: O'Shaughnessy and WNDU reportod that Seton 
Carmody served as an assis­
ahead of the '.'Jotre Dame Calabrese score the goals, Hall head coach Tommy
By GENE BRTALIK tant at Princeton for 14 years
defense to score. senior Kerry Callahan has -a Amaker, who was a player.Sporrs-Wrim Besides having tu set the knack for finding them before becoming head coach. and an assistant at Duke, has pace for Lhe game, the Irish resulting in 11 assists. one Xavier athletic director expressed interest in the job.
DPspitn bning a 1-3 team in \'like Babinski. a Notre Dame
will also have to control less than the rest of the team Another name that has
onlv its second year, graduate, said Monday that
Katrina Habel, uno of the combined. swirled around the Notre
Svrr1cus1-1 is nonetheless a Notre Dame has asknd for
best players in the country, The first three games saw Dame rumors isn't. a coach or strong opponent. Coyne said. -the Irish control the tempo permission to speak with an athletic director, it's a
Notre Dame's women's Prosser.
This vcar's contest sees the against their opponents, hut blue-rhip athlr~te.
lacrosse team's 3-0 record is "l don't know when, where
Irish 1nake up for some of their first opponents did nol Ai1dy Slocum was apparent­
no guaranlee of a wi~; or how, but they said they
that lost spfled with a new possess the same firepower Iv rnady to sign to play for 
Svracuse is ranked 19th rn were in tlrn process of meet­
recruiting class featuring sev­as Svracuse. tho Irish before MacLcod's
the nation and has one of the ing some people and Skip was
eral high school All­lr"the Irish want to come resignation March 9. 
most up-tempo games in col­on their list and that it was
Americans. away with one of their · The 6-foot-11 center aver­
legfl lacrosse. somewhat in the preliminary
"This game is going io be a biggest victories in the pro­aged 24 points, 14 rebounds
So when the Irish travel to stages of their process,"
Vf'I"V challenging one for us, gram's brief history, they will and five blocks his senior 
Syracuse today to take on the Bobinski told The Associated
since they boast a very potent need Lo clamp clown with y1m-r his senior season in
()rangi>women on their home Press.
attack, but their weakness defense and prevent the West Monroe, La. 
field, iL should be an interest­Prosser arrived in New
has to be goaltending," Coyne Orangewonwn from scoring. Slocum is also considering
ing match. said. York yi>sterday' in prepara­Clemson, Oklahoma.
Notre Damt> will also need

Syracusr·s thrcr ~osses tion for Xavier's NIT semifi­
The person most likely to to ignore Syrarusc·s national Syracuse, Texas A&M and 
came against other natwnally nal game against Clemson.
challenge Clothilde Ewing is ranking and sltrn lhe game. Utah, wlwre Majnrus coach­
ranked teams, all holding the Notre Oame plans to meet es, J'or now.
:-Jotre Dame sophomore Lael down.

Orangewomen to under 10 with Prosser in the near
(}'Shaughnessy. ff thP Irish can accomplish Now Slocum and the imme­goals per game. 
future but probably after diatP l'uturn of' Notre Damfl
O'Shaughnessy currently all this, they will come home

This changed when Xavier's season, which will
leads the team with 15 goals with a 4-0 record and pm­basketball arc in limbo wait­
Syracuse played Albany on end on Friday.
and has a shooting pPrcent­pare for their season home ing for the announcement of
Saturday and Sycracuse won The newest name to knock
age of 56 percent. opener on Friday. a new head coach. 
18-3 -its first victory. 
The Notre Dame Law School Natural Law Institute Presents 
The Olin Distinguished Lecture Series 

"Disagreement in Politics" 
Joseph Raz 

Professor of the Philosophy ofLaw at Oxford University 
Wednesday, March 24, 1999 4 p.m. Notre Dame Law School Courtroom 
J 

GOT TIME? The Observer sports department is currently looking for sports copy editors and a sports-production staff. These are paid positions. If interested in applying, please call 1-4543. 
-=-~;>Poo---...---.,_..JJ_________ZF___.__~-----::--"-·,.....,_.,_,.,,...._ __,..>-'_...______,,.___IIUU____ __
,...... rA•--------....--------------------=-----11!'!:a••-­
Tuesday, March 2.3, 1999 The Observer• TODAY page 4j SLURRED SPEECH DAN SULLIVAN EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 


H)XTROT 
GlOll'ICY SNUC.I< OUT oF HtS CA&E LAST 
NIGHT ANO CHEWED UP ~O ATE MY ENTIRE 
MATH TEXTBool(. 
\ 
;:-_/--:;, 
DILBERT 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Does a standard 
dog tnck 5 Flock members 9 Actor Cary of 
"Twister" 14 To be. in Toulon 15 Ernie's "Sesame 
Street'1pal 16 ---lance (pit viper) 17 Kind of 
instrument 18 The "B" of N.B. t9 Nourishes 20 Country club 
employees 23 Ink for une 
plume 24 Sulky state 25 lao---· 2eOrigmally 
named 29 Coral formation 
~~~[{, 
AJ~:,,/ <l <l \
V 

12 Hall-of-Farner ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Roush 
--~~ 13 His or her, in E p S O L E N K A N T France L A U D -'-'-+=+-+-A L O E 21 Audacity 
S W E I N A 22 Energy 
E N A C K 26 Late ruler Mobutu -­Sako 
21 River through O C -.-i--=-+'-'-+:=-+=--11'• Bavaria ~=-i=-1~1-c.....i 30 Poetic -r:-11-:-:,1-=,._._ contraction
8 
P S 31 Three-time speed skating M I N R c E gold medalist 0 0 
U )( Kann A L I _-+-==-+-::,-1 32 Circus S L O T O L O U T E impresario Irvin S Y N E N E S R T E S and others 
BILL AMEND 

r./~  
C 199g !WI MleMI01st !J,y UruVl!rsal Pms Svndie;alo  www.faxtrot com  

FoRTuNATEL'Y,
JASoN, WH'f ARE '(OU 
I HAI> MY l'LL TA"-£
TELL!N<:. ME 'THIS AT 
ENTIRE MA11-I 11-IAT AS
BREAl<FAST I'.' Oo You 
A"YE '•WANT ME To THRow 
TEXTBOOK 
V?, Too?.1 MEM0R1?ED. 
I 
SCOTT ADAMS 
J'U&T 1\5 ! SU5PECTEO, 'THe: NEW GUY IS A. ROOE.O CLOWN. 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Eric Clapton, Paul Reiser, War­ren Beatty, Celine Dion, Tracy Chap­man, M.C. Hammer 
Happy Birthday: You won't have much time for rest and relaxation this year. You will have lots of opportuni­ties but not enough time to take advantage of everything that comes your way. Choose wisely, don't over• load your plate and you will /ind the satisfaction that you are looking for. A rewarding year can be yours if you put your best efforts into what you believe in the most. Your numbers: 5, 11, 18, 23, 30, 43 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Delays due to transportation diflicul­lies may put a snag in your plans You must act quickly if you want to m<.-et your deadline. Don't hesitate to ask for favors. You have more allies than you think. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Doors will open professionally if you send out your resume or go for inter­views. Don't Jet children or entertain• ment cost you too much. You"ll have financial problems if you take a risk. 
00000 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20}: You'll be indecisive today. Your romantic partner will be confused by your actions. You'll have to be careful that you don't make rash decisions you'll regret later. 00 
CANCER (JUNE 21-JULY 22): Don't reveal secret information about others. Co-workers won't be willing to cooperate with you. You will have to accorn plish things by yourself. 
0000 

LEO Ouly 23-Aug. 22): Your color­ful way of doing things will attract attention. You nPed to use up your energy in a constructive manner. Put some thought into ways that you can give yourself a physical challenge. 
000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Work dil.igently on projects requiring fine detail. Avoid peers whu want to drag you into their dilemmas. You may want to help them, but in the end you'll get blamed for the outcome. 
000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22}: Check out some of the courses being offered in your community. You need to start learning new skills if you want to keep up with the never-ending tech­nological changes at work. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct.23-Nov. 21): Don't overspend on thoS<' unworthy of your generosity. You may want lo look into the nature of an organization before you donate or join its cause. 0000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your lover may not be too sure about your intentions. You can evade the issue as usual by being affectionate, fun-loving and too active for your mate to catch on. 00 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You should be thinking about making a career move. Someone you work for is probably trying to hold you back. Protect your reputation and prepare yourself for unexpected changes. 
00000 
AQUARIUS Uan. 20-Feb. 18): You need to get out and socialize with col­leagues. If you can combine a little work with pleasure, you will gain respect and the help you need from those in a position to help you gel 
ahead.000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Emo­tional blackmail will only get you into trouble with your loved ones. You need to make some personal changes in your life. Don't blame others for your own unhappiness. 000 
~ 
r 

33 long John 
Silver, e.g. 35 Ironed 37 ---majeste 38 Cot. Klink player 
on "Hogan's 
Heroes" 43 Certain utll. 44Channel 
swimmer Gertrude 45 Remove the pits from 48 Capt. Hook's 
companion 49 Martians, e.g. 52Glimpse 53 Animal doc 55 Assail 57 Peppermint 
liqueur 62 Hinder 64 Actress 
Campbell 65 "God shed His grace on--" 
I 
66 News subject 67 Large number 68 Projector load 69Givesup 
10 They're seven positions after today's theme 
11 Scots Gaelic 
DOWN 
1 "Murphy Brown" star 2 Timeless, to a poet 3 Where Zeus was 
worshiped 4 Passover meal 5 Recedes 6 Timespan 7 Sea eagle 88rew 9 Decadent 
10 Playboy's gaze 11 Hulk Hogan, for one 

34 Mirth 47 Rep. foe 58 Actress Russo 59 Place for a
35 Suffix with exist 49 Book after Nehemiah farmer?
36Consider 50 Giggles 60 Daredevil 38 Joins in holy Knievel
51 TV's "Remington
matrimony 61 British stables 
39 Gen Robt. -­
54 High-strung 62 Jan. preceder40 Completely 
56--nous 63 Night before
excised. in surgery 
41 G.I. chow in 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzleDesert Storm 
are available by touch-tone phone: 42 Military 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). academy 
Annual subscriptions are available for the freshman 
best of Sunday crosswords from the last 46 Turns inside out 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

'Z Christmas in April Benefit Run 
~ 9~ ~ a~ ~M Pfu5 2. Mi\e Wa\k '$.aturda'i, f\pri\ to, lt:OO f\M 'Ste-pan Ce-nte-r 
T-~hirtt, to a\\ l49if>trant1, \Z.egif>te.r in Mvanle at \Zel'5portr, $(,.oo In Advanc.e or $1.oo Dai of 12.ac.e ~udent and ~taff Divi2iiorn; 



A\\ 'Proluds to e,e,nefit Omil~ irn ~\ 



.... ···•• G~:odbl. gr;,mdson ot· Mahatma Gandhi and pj:'<>fessor at t,he Center for Policy Research in dia, will g~ve a lecture entitled "The LivingofGand.ht" today at 4:15 P.M. in the Seminar 
(Rooin c.~103) of.the Hesburgh Center for 
ti4'lbtil Studies, . 


The Observer is currently 
•

accepting applications for a one--panel cartoonist, like the Far Side. 
-
-
... 


Sponsored By 
-
& 
~~ 


Gaining a charge 

TIIIIIIS drops 1111 11111 
--
¦ Quarterback Jim Harbaugh 
¦ The men's tennis squad lost 
signed with the San Diego 

two matches over the weekend. 
Chargers Monday.­
p.21
PORTS 
p. 15 
THE 
Tuesday, March 23, 1999

page 24 OBSERVER 


¦ BASEBALL 
Irish squad prepares to buckle the Broncos 
By BILL HART choice, but sophomore righL­A<soci,ae Srorts Editor han der · Aaron lleilman allowed just two baserunners 
It's been a long time com­for the rest of the game. ing, but the Irish will finally The visitors tacked on one get a chance to play at hunrn. run iu each of rhe fifth, sixth. 
· Al'ter playing 17 games on and seventh innings. 
the road, the Notre Dame In the fifth, O'Toole hit a baseball team will start. off its leadoff single and stole sec­hom<' sdrndule this afternoon ond before scoring off a hit by when they play !Jost lo Stanley. In the sixth, Bushey Western Michigan. led off the innin~ with a sin­
longest of the Seo.son. intentionally walked junior 
That streak was extended shortstoµ Brant Ust before a ovl'f the wrrnkend when the sacrifice fly brought Bushey team travelnl Lo Morgantown home. to take on tho West Virginia The fiual Irish run of Urn 
MuuntaincPrs. Thr; Irish matinPe came ol'f a leadoff started off thei.r Big East sea­single by O'Toole, a sacrifice son with a bang. swP-eping bunt by snphomorP-leftfielder the two-game weather-short­Ben Cooke, a stolen base and ened series by scores of 4-1 two walks by junior right­and 6-4. fielder Jeff Perconte and 
In the series opener, Notre Stanley and a single to left by Dame drew first blood by Bushey. scoring a run off a bunt single Heilman had an outstanding by freshman center fielder performance on the mound, Steve Stanley, followed by a tossing a seven-inning com-. groundout by freshman third plete game. Facing just four baseman Andrew Bushey, a batters over the minimum, he steal and a groundout by sec­recorded nine strikeouts, 12 ond baseman Alec Porzel. groundouts, allowing three West Virginia tied the game hits and no walks, and leaY­
-
The Observer/Jeff Hsu 
in the bottom of the inning off ing most of the men in both 
Entering this afternoon's home opener, the Irish baseball squad is on a seven-game winning streak, its 
two singles and a fielder's 
see BASEBALL/ page 19 longest of the season. 


¦ SOFTBALL 
Irish look to cool down Boilers 
By SCOTT J. HARDY 
Spores \X'riter 
With their mediocre finish in the National Invitational Tournament fresh in their minds, the Irish softball play­ers rested this past weekend to prepare to tackle the Boilermakers today. 
The Irish lost to No. 20 Nebraska in the final game of the National Invitational. 6-0. 
However, the team was not without . victory in the Invitational. It won three of five games during the bracket­play tournament. 
Catcher Kris McCleary scored her second home run for the season during the tour­nament. She brought praise to the Irish fielders, being named to the all-tournament team of the National Invitational. 
The team has its work cut out todav, as Purdue is unde­feated in softball contests against the Irish. Purdue has won 13 of their 21 games this season, chalking up notable vidor ie.s versus teams Ii k e Texas, North Carolina and California Poly Tech. 
freshman Jerrah Mvers, 
• who will be starting at ·third base for the Irish in tomor­row's doubleheader against 



¦ IRISH INSIGHT 
Names abound in coaching search 
By JOEY CAVA TO did tell the South Bernd 
Senior Sports Writer Tribune that the coach 

search had progressed. 
Trying to get a beat on "I think we still have the 
where Rick Majerus will be timeline that we will have a 
coaching next season has coach no later than April 7," 
been about as easy as staying Wadsworth told the South 
within 10 points of the Duke Bend Tribune. 
Blue Devils for 40 minutes. Several newspapers report­
The Utah coach and Notre ed that Majerus would visit 
Dame's top candidate to South Bend last week, but 
replace John Macleod has that never happened. 
been the focus of many Majerus did go to Southern 
rumors in the past week. California to watch a high 
Majerus, who has said that school basketball game. San 
he is 99 percent sure that Diego State was ready to 
he'U return to Utah, left Irish offor Majerus more than $1 
fans with a glimmer of hope million hut ESPN reported 
saying that the Notre Dame that Majerus planned to turn 
job is his "one percent." down the offer. 
'Tm very happy at Utah," Aside from Majerus, Notre 
Majerus said in a television Dame's list includes Xavier's 
interview on KUTV last week. Skip Prosser, Delaware's 
"Right now I don ·t have any Mike Brey and Princeton's 
plans to leave. I'm almost Bill Carmody. 
sure I'll stav at Utah." Yesterday Notre Dume 
Adding ru·el to the rumor talked witli Carmody. Jerry 
fire is the fact that l\'otre Price, Princeton's sports 
Dame Athletir. Director information director, said 
Michael Wadswotrh and that Notre Dame requested 
Majerus were both in New permission to open discus­
York over the weekend. sions with Carmody and he 
Wadsworth has said that he was scheduled to mefit with 
will not comment on the issue 


until a new coach is hirr~d. He
sec SOFTBALL/ page 21 
see INSIGHT/ page 22 
• 
Baseball vs. Wesrern 

Wome1/5 Lacrosse at 
Michigan

SPORTS 
~ Syracuse, Today, 3 p.m. Saine Mary's Softball Today, 5p.m. 
as Concordia University 
ATA 

• d f!i 
Tomorrow, 3 p.m. 
Softball at Purdue 
vs. Michigan
i)
Today, 2 p.m. 

Tomorrow, 4 p.m. 
GLANCE 
I• 








