
a :.....~. ,
• 
Get the lowdown on the Spartans 
More on the ad policy 
The 1-2 Irish look to right the ship Saturday 
Members ofthe office ofthe undergraduate 
Friday
against Michigan State. Read the Irish insider 
student body president enter the fray over The 
to find out what they're up against. 
Observer's advertising policy. 
SEPTEMBER 17,
Irish Insider 
page 17 
1999 

THE 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXIII NO. 19 HTTP:/!OBSERVER.ND.EDU 

Studying in the shadows 
JOE STARK'T~e Observer 

Sarah Scott, a first-year graduate student in civil engineering, inspects uranium sam­ples under the microscope. 
U.N. prepares to send troops to East Timor 

By CHRISTINE KRALY 
As.sod.ne Nt·w~ Edj ror 
Ki10wn morn for pep rallies thau post-docs, Notrn Dame has been associated with u111.lllrgraduate 1-iducation since its inception. 
As a result, graduate research often goes unno­ticed. 
llowevnr, there are 1marlv 
1.500 graduate students o~ rampus working, studying and rnsearching 1iv1•ry day.. Tlwy collnct data, write rnports an<l analyze t.hn lat­ns l inl'orrnation in llwir rnspnctivn acad1rn1ir. linlds. 
Whilii l'acultv rnnmbers ol'tnn arn recc;gnizcd for largP rPsearch grants and 
high-profile discoveries, many big-budget research projects are, for the most part. run by graduate stu­dents. 
"I !l's the] grad students who turn the knobs. run the experiments," said James Merz. vice president. of Graduate Studies and Research. 
Faculty researchers agree. 
"l'vn been blessed with out­standing grad students and post-docs in my lab," said David Hyde. assnciate profes­sor of' biological sciences. "They do the brunt of the work and don't always get llrn crnclit for it." 
Some graduatP studnnts were drawn to Notre Dame by the research opportunities offered here. 
"I always wanted to do some molecular biology and there was a !ah Iperforming studies] I was interested in," said Jorge Ganopolsky, a bio­chemistry student from the University of Buenos Aires. 
Ganopolsky is in the Ph.D. program experimenting with blood-clotting agents using molecular genetic techniques in niscuing protein-deficient genetically-engineered lab mice. 
These opportunities help more than just tlrn students. according to Hyde, who is conducting research on blindness and rctinitus pig­mentosa in fruit flies and 
see GRADS/page 6 


Graduate students thrive on research at 
undergrad-focused institution 

. Profs: Long-term costs of conflict are unclear 
By MI KE ROMANCHEK 
Ntws Wrirc1 
As tlm United Nalions prepares to send an i\ustrnlian-lcd peace­keeping force to Easl Tirnor. the imlcpnmlnncn of thn Indonesian tBrritory is still unc«1rtain, and tho lonl{-torm ramificutions of the nvnnt urP ,wen more so, Notrn llamc government profos­sors said. 
011 Aug. 30. Urn East Timoresc votod for independence from Indonesia in a U.N.-sponsorcd referendum. Mon, than 78 per­cent ol' the voters chose indepen­dence. Since that time. militias have rampaged through East Timor forcing supporters of' inde­pendence to nee their homes. 
The mililias, rumored to be suppnrted by Indonesia's mili­tary, have attacked refugees and The U.N. approved up to R,000 fmuld the U.N. to abandon their peacekeeping troops to restore compound in East Timor's capi­order on the island state. tal of' Dili. Ollicials fear that more Australia and Malaysia will pro­than 7,000 people are dead due vide the majority of the peace­to the violence. ke{ipers. 
Major-General Kiki. Syohnakri, the [ndonesian military comman­der in East Timor, said Indonesia will withdraw all of its troops once the U.N. force arrives. 
see TIM OR/page 4 
. East Timor activist discusses the conflict 
By KA TE STEER 
News Writer 
East Timor activist Kristen Sundal! talkHd with a group of students yesterday about her experiences in the province and the recent atrocities there. 
The talk, sponsored by Pax Christi. began with a video made by British frnelance jour­nalist John Pilger on the history of the conflict between Indonesia and East Timor, including testimony from some of the Tirnorese who watched 
• siblings being murdered and maimBd. 
Sundall is an activist for the East Timor Action Network (ETAN), a group formed in 1991 in response to the Santa Cruz massacre and in opposi­
see SUNDALL/page 4 

page 2 The Observer . INSIDE Friday, September 17, 1999 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Through the lens 
You probably don't know me. I am the photo editor here, which means that while my pictures takes up big chunks of these pages, my words do not. But my work puts me way down on that hal­lowed football field, and there is a valuable per­
spective from below. 
I don't see the instant replays, and I don't hear the inane analysis that you folks at home are privilege to on TV. My enjoyment of the football team often comes on a one-inch screen that I have pressed to my face. All I see 

is what 1have in my 
Kevin Dalum
viewfinder, and I try to bring you that vision through my photographs. I see the play­ers in personal detail. The Photo Editor sweat and the blood. I see the joy and the pain -and lately, too much of the latter. 
It's a close vision, and for a long time, I thought I was one of the fow to be privilege to it. But this week is different. This week I learned that too many fans have their own narrow vision of our beloved gridiron program -a vision that focuses in on one play, one player or one coach. 
Some of these fans are shooting with a very powerful lens. They really focus in and point out the failures of this team, these mortal players and imperfect coaches who stand before them on the grassy plain. The way these folks talk about it, you might guess that Notre Dame's season is over, that there's no more battles to be fought, no more moves left to make and no more heart left to beat. 
On some days, I might agree with you. Last Saturday was almost one of those days, if it weren't for something I did while on the field. I stopped shooting for a moment, and Ijust looked around and took in the fleeting experience of being a photographer for Noqe Dame. And I lis­tened. 
I didn't hear the players whining on the field. 1 didn't hear the coaches sighing in resignation. I heard a team that would not give up to a hostile crowd and a Heisman hopeful. While I didn't hear the cries of victory on Saturday, I heard the Irish faithful stand by their helmeted comrades. 
So I ask you to take your eyes away f:mm that lens for a second, and listen. Listen to the sound of a hundred hearts beating beneath blue jer­seys. Hear the sounds of a team that holds aloft the proud traditions of a century. Drown yourself in the roar of a stadium that stands as atemple to your collective will. 
This team needs you to pour out your souls on Saturday, and to take your eyes off the screen for just three and half hours. The players and coach­es are trying to uphold our most storied tradition of ail -fighting back from defeat. They've spent the week building themselves from the inside, while some of their fans try to destroy them from the outside. 
I may see the team too closely, but I hear the game around me. It's the sound of 107 years of football, and this team stands ready to play the final notes of this century. Let's help them make some noise. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Tim Logan Mike Vanegas Marthew Smith Graphics Kyle Andrews Scocc Hardy 
Sports Production 
Noah Amscadter Kerry Smith Viewpoint Lab Tech Dustin Ferrell Angela Campos 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except du~ing exam and vacation perio<L.. The Ohst:rver J), a men1ber of the Associ:ued Pres.s. All reproduction rights arc re~erved. 

THIS WEEK IN NOTRE DAME/ SAINT MARY'S HISTORY 
President Ford appoints Hesburgh Tuesday, Sept. 17, 1974 

University President Theodore Hesburgh is appointed by President Ford to a nine-member clemency board that will review draft evasion and military desertion 
. cases. Hesburgh, who formerly served under Presidents Johnson and Nixon as chairman of the U.S. Civil Rights commission, has become a strong advocate of unconditional amnesty. 
OUTSIDE THE DOME 
Dean denounces panty raids 
Tuesday.Sept. 17. 1974 

The two recent panty raids on Saint Mary's College wore discussed during a meeting last night with the dean of students, John Macheca, in Fisher Hall. Macheca said he had heard "a lot of distasteful things that happened dur­ing the raids." He went on to say that "this early fall ritu­
al has deteriorated, especially this year." Macheca plans to increase campus police presence in the future. 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Brown entrepreneurs take $30,000 in awards 
PROVIDENCE, R.l. 

Several Brown students and recent University graduates divided $30,000 in cash and services as part of the newly formed Brown Entrepreneurship Program. 
Daniel Goldstein was awarded the first prize of $5,000 cash and $5.000 in legal and marketing ser­vices for Proletariat Entertainment, Inc., a project he sponsored along with five teammates: Matthew Howard, Greg Slovacek, Jesse Kurlancheek and Rhode Island School of Design students Damon Iannuzelli and Matthew Sundstrom. 
Proletariat has since moved to the West Coast and is currently devel­oping Internet-based computer games. 
Jessica Nam was named runner­up and awarded $6,500 in-cash and 
Through the program, students interested in business are mentored by professional entrepreneurs who help them refine their ideas a.nd develop plans. 
professional services for Jessica's Wonders, a fresh-baked goods com­pany. 
Nam's confections have already hit the shelves in six local stores. 
"We're marketing the company as the Ben and Jerry's of baked goods," Nam said. "We have unique combinations like chocolate and coffee, or banana and peanut butter -weird combinations that people crave." 

James Madison club sets trend 
HARRISONBURG, Va. 

Up for a night of rolling around in some mud, hiking, climbing or even crawling into the depths of the Earth? Last year approximately 150 James Madison University students answered "yes" to this question by joining the Caving Club -and this year over 375 stu­dents showed an interest in joining at last week's stu­dent organization night. "I wasn't suprised about the number of sign-ups -we had about that many people sign up last year," Caving Club President Patrick Rodgers said. He was, however, pleased to see 125 of those sign-ups at the club's first interest meeting. "I think it's so popular because it's something new and different. It provides people with an opportunity to participate in an activity they may otherwise not do on their own." Rodgers also attributes the club's popular­ity to the low cost of annual dues. For an entire year of caving, it costs $10 -a fee that includes equipment rental and admittance to special events. 'There's also at least one trip per week so everyone gets a chance to go," Rodgers said. The caving club celebrates its 20­year anniversary this year. 
LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather®forecru;t for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tues;day 
~,~-~PQ.ffi-l) ~c:J. 

Showers T-slorms Rain Flurries Snow /CB Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via Associated Press Graphic5Net 
Nam names her creations after friends and family who inspire each recipe, like "JJ's Most Moist Mocha" and "Kelly Belly Jelly Banana Bread." 
The Entrepreneurship Program was founded in January 1998 by Evan Geller and David Cohen. 
Funding for the program is raised externally through alumni contribu­tions, a grant from the Coleman Foundation, and corporate spon­sors. 
Through the program, students interested in business are mentored by professional entrepreneurs who help them refine their ideas and develop plans for their businesses. 
At the heart of the program is the business plan contest, in which five student ventures are awarded cash and services to start their enter­prises. 
Tower re-opens at Texas-Austin 

AUSTIN, Tx. 
More than 1,000 people gathered at the South Mall Wednesday night to celebrate the Tower's reopening and to be part of the first Tower Observation Deck tour since 197 4. But only a handful of people actually witnessed the breathtaking view from the deck. Before the ceremonies began, attendees registered their names for a draw in which 10 people were randomly picked to join others for the inaugural tour. Diana Arevalo, a photojournalism junior whose name was randomly chosen, said the view was great. "I was excited when they picked my name, and I want to go again, but during the day," she said. "It's the symbol of UT and it's great that it's open." Marisa Pachecano, a psychology freshman, said she felt lucky to be part of the first tour. Her name was also drawn randomly. "It's a beautiful view, and it was awesome being up there," she said, adding that she wants to come back with her parents and her camera. The deck has been officially closed since 1975 after a surge of suicides and a deadly shooting spree marred the UT symbol. Renovations to the Tower began this year. 
NATIONAL WEATHER 


The AccuWeather'I forecast for noon, Friday, Sept. 17. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
T.S. FLOYD 
..._..... 
01999 AceuWeelher, Inc. COW 
r--------------~
Pnffllf..' 
® © D trrl ill] GD ~ []] 
High LOW Showers Rain T-atorms Flurries Snow Ice 
---~--~--
Vid Assr,c,slad Pre!ls  
AUanta  79  54  Indianapolis  71  46  
Boston  72  62  Los Angeles  76  64  
Chicago  72  45  New Orleans  B5  65  
Dallas  S5  65  New York  75  64  
Fredonia  70  55  Orchard Park  68  54  

WARM STATIONAAY 
. ~Jk, w..., 
Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 

San Antonio 92 62 San Francisco 74 53 San Diego 78 65 Seattle 75 51 Washington 77 58 
L a 

Friday, September 17, l 999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Koppel: Technology rapidly changing news industry 
Bv LAURA ROMPF and 
MAUREEN SMITHE 
New, \X/rire,s 
Thu l'acn of journalism is changing clrn• to continuing tech­nological advaucemen1.s. "Nightlirw" anchor aud ma11ag­ing nditor Ted Koppel told a packud the llesburgh Library A11ditnrium Thursday. 
Ovr.r his 36 years in tdcvision nnws. Koppel suid. his experi­r.ncns hav<• evolvNI due to clmng1)S in ledrnology and, he predict.ed. tlw expnriences of rPporhirs will continw• to nvolvn. 
"Tho naturP ol' journalism is u moving target and a r.hanging phnnonwnon. The future will be vorv diffortmt from what I havu SP(in throt1ghou! my can•Pr," Iii' said. 
Tnch no logy has widt1 nod the definition of who can practice 
Kevin '00 & Kate '03 Dalum 
-7~a-t .~~­
weuaatpuu«l,tJ/ 
~ fJt tµUt,I 
journalism, a definition which has always hnen broad, but pri­marily only so in thnory, he said. 
"Journalism is one of the very few professions which requires 1w training whalsonver, '' he said. "It is a privilnge implicitly grant­ed to everyone ... until recently, that privilege was theoretical." 
Tcehnology has expanclP.d jour­1rnlists' audience -110 longer fully dependent on access to a printing press, said Koppel. 
"Without the capacity to dis­tribute, you can say what you wunt, but no one will hear it. Now anyone with a computer can read what you \Vrote," he said. 
Despite the tmnµtations and challPngc•s posed by new distrib­ution methods, journalists must perform their work honestly a.ml f:1irly. Im said. 
"Never publish or broadcasl a story bnfore you know it is accu­rate," he said. 
Emµhasizing "honesty, fairness and derency," Koppel added that ull journalists should "provide a voice for the powerless. You have an incredible license to any­where, but your main purpose is the communication of ideas." 
Tbe nature of communication has changed dramatically, Koppel said. and the results are not always for the better. 
"The technology of delivering­information has changed, but the fundamentals have not," Koppel said. "Thirty years ago car phones barely existed. I may have received three or four important calls over a year, but I've made and received hundreds of irre!rwant calls simply because I can." 
Koppel presented a paradox he has experienced during his career. While reporting from Cambodia in 1970, he aUompted to call his wife in the United States from his hotel. After wait­ing two and a half hours. her voice was "cottony and cloudy." 
However. 2 9 vears later in Kosovo. his cellular phone was capable of reaching London or Washington within seconds. 
Koppel also addressed the explosion of new networks into television airwaves. 
"When I joined ABC news in 1963, there were three net­works," he said. "The average. 
U.S. household now receives 57 television channels. Communicating with a national and even international audience is now technologically in the reach of anyone with the Internet." 
Koppel considers the Internet's full access for all to be "a bless­ing and a curse." 

"The glory of new technology produce wisdom." 
· and the acquisition of informa­Koppel has won 32 Emmy tion has made journalism a truly awards, 17 honorary degrees democratic process." he said and was inducted into the 
He warned, there is "so much Broadcasting Hall of Fame. He information that the mind does has anchored "Nightline" since not know what to believe." its 1963 inception and has 
"We are these days drowning worked for ABC for 36 years. in information ... almost none of The lecture was sponsored by which evolves into wisdom," he the department of American said. "Information does not Studies and the Notre Dame 
always lead to knowledge and Program in Journalism, Ethics knowledge is rarely enough to and Democracy. 





Wall Street Forum 
Your opportunity to learn more about: 
Investment Banking --Asset Management --Commercial Banking --Insurance 
Information on Career and Internship Opportunities 
Date: September 22, 1999 Time: Presentations begin at 3:00 pm Place: Hesburgh Center -across from COBA 
(NOT THE LIBRARY!!) 
Pizza and refreshments will be served. 
The following firms will be presenting: 
Goldman Sachs  Merrill Lynch  
Lehman Brothers  Morgan .r,tanley Dean Witter  
Salomon Smith Barney  Chase Manhattan Bank  
LaSalle Bank  CS First Boston  
Robert W Baird  Allstate Insurance  

Deutsch Bank Alex.Brown Questions -E-mail mcfadden.J7@nd.edu 
' 
j 
i 
l 
' 
1 
' 
1 
l 
l 
j 
l 
I 
' 
' 
' 
I 
j 
page4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, September 17, 1999 
Sundall 
continued from page l 
tion to the U.S.'s sale of M-16s used in the massacre. 
Sundall first traveled to Indonesia a year ago when stu­dent groups began meeting and becoming active. 
"It was powerful to watch them come together." she said. "Movement toward indepen­dence was inevitable." 
In May 1999, the United Nations conducted a vote regarding the independence of East Timor. Following lhis deci­sion, the lndorn:isian govern­ment began forming and arm­ing militia groups. 
ETAN put together an observ­er project that sent members to East Timor in late August to aid those br.ing threatened and to assist in voter registration. 
When the registration process was complete, groups promoting independence and Indonesian integration were allowed 10 days to campaign. 
The Indonesian government began campaigns to discourage people from voting or to instruct them to vote incorrect­ly, Sundal] explain!'d. 
"I personally witnessed rice being distributed to the people and them being told, 'If you accept this, you must vote against independence,"' she said. 
The ETAN activists received threats and intercepted radio messages instructing border . guards to kill them if they tried to leave, she explained. 
"Eventually it wasn't possible for us to function in the town," Sundall said. "We became tar­gets ourselves and dangers to those seen with us." 
On Sept. 5, the part of the group was evacuated. The team found space on a departing 
U.N. convov and were able to get two members, including Sundall, out of the town before the results of the vote were announced. 
..---. ·., 


Tiillor 
continued from page I 
Despite this, East Timor will not officially be independent until the Indonesian par!larnent votes to approve the secession. 
Indonesia's diversity creates problems for its Jakarta-based government. 
"They [Indonesia} are a very desperate nation, there are groups that don't want to be ruled by the government in Jakarta," said Andrew Reynolds, governrn ent professor. "Indonesians, l'm sure, are con­cerned now that if East Tirnor goes then these other areas in the country may be even more vociferous in trying to demand that they have autonomy as well." 
Gen. Wiraruo, the chief of the Indonesian armed for1.:es, con­ceded on Sept. 11 that he had lost control of his troops in East Timor. If the rogue Indonesian forces in East Timur continue to support the militias, Indonesia may face severe consequences. 
'There would be a direct con­tradiction to what the United Nations has set in motion and also what the population of the territory lias expressr.d a prefer­


ges, frozen drinks, pool, ..·. games. 
Yes -You can party and have fun without Try it before you knock it. 

Open every Wednesday -Saturday from 6 until close. 
Hear the best in Hip-Hop, Retro, House, H&Bi:~l ·· Line music, Old School, Disco, and Rock and Roll. 
.$ 

Learn the latest and hippest dance moves frooo..,:( some of the hottest DJ's in the midwest atth~ ·· triday and Saturday night weekly dance p~,[t! 
,:,<:.t\ 

,., Open mic on Wed. and Thursdays. Show<
'>•·,.,.,-, .

,;t:!~',£· talent and bring a friend. c,, Bookings available for bands, DJ's, come. dancers and other entertainers. Call more information. 
ence for.'' said Robert Johansen, py because the Australians are professor of government. "At probably the most vociferously that point, I think there would pro-East Timar independence," likely be increased diplomatic Reynolds said. efforts including economic sanc­Australia stepped forward to tions that would be far more lead the U.N. mission because it severe. Certainly a military has opposed Indonesia's sover­embargo that would be brought eignty over East Timor since it to bear against Indonesia." invaded the territory in 'I 975. 
The U.N.'s mission may "This has negative impact in include setting up an East Indonesia because Indonesians Timorese democratic govern-see Australia as a power that ment once may be med­peace is dling in their
"I think a LUV. presence
restored, the affairs,"
is a good idea and it's
experi.'> said. .Johansen said. "I think a likely to be needed there "And while it's 
O.N. presence helpful to the
for some time to come ...
is a good idea united Nations and it's likely for Australia to to be needed Robert Johansen play this lead­there for some professor of government ing role it's timfl to come. also diplomati-First to estab-cally desirable lish some sort of public safety for to include, in the leadership of the inhabitants and to allow the the U.N. force there, some other refugees tu return," Johansen governments that viewed more said. "Hut then, after, t.lrnre favorably by Indonesia because needs to be a U.N, presence as U.N. forces have extreme diffi­the East Timorese gradually culties in operating successfully work to create a constitutional if they have an active opposition governmeni." from the host government." 
Indonesia. initiallv asked that Thursday President Clinton Australia be left out.ol'the peace­approved 200 Americans troops keeping form. to assist in the peace keeping 
"They'rf' !Indonesia) fairly mission. While thf' U.S. govern­unhapp)' about anybody coming ment has denounced the violence in. They are parlicularly unhap-in East Timor, it has not taken concrete steps to end the militia violence. 
"I think the U.S. political and economic and military interests have played a role in discourag­ing the United States from sup­porting the independence move­ment of East Timorese people. At the same timf' 1 rlon't want to overlook other reasons for U.S. lack of leadership in this area," Johansfm said. 
"So the political difficulties and the volatility of support. for the Habibie government in Indonesia is another reason why the United States has been cautious about how to proceed," he added. 
Since the U.N. approved the peacekeepers the violence in Dili has decreascrl and the military has begun to restore order. 
"My own feeling is in the long run a robust support for the now clearly expressed will of' the East Timorese people is desirable for the United States and the world community," Johansen said. "Moreover. the United States and the world community should remain standing against Indonesian efforts lo undermine that refer­endum. They should on the other hand support Indonesian efforts to establish their own democrati1.: system and stabi­lize the economy." 

If our delicious, flame-broiled double cheeseburger were any bigger, we'd need to buy more ad space. 

Not111n~ heats our h1g._ruicy Douhk Checschurgcr. It's got the ~re.it t:1stt· ot lhnic hnnlmg and h11:-75% nH it\' beef than :-...tc I)nn;ikl'c ( :hccschu1vn
,--, 
lhe Hu<Mle Lafortune S!We 'I Ctw~e, 

It just tastes better. 
:;l"! ,,, J,. ,,.f-..,1,qC•Y(' ,1 
• t !•·•?: ,•, t_.), I t '!'•jl:.I>::, ! •· ! '• 




orld 



Friday, September 17, 1999 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
South African lieutenant kills seven 
BLOEMFONTEIN, South Africa 

A black army Heutnnant on Thursday went from building to building al his infantry base firing at follow officers and killing scvm1 peo­ple, all whito, in a r,rime that investigators say could be racially motivated. Five other people, also white, were wounded in the shootout al Tempo military base. police said. Police spokt1swoman Johlenc van der Merwc said tlw dead includod a major, several other offi­cnrs and a civilian employef! of tho base. The rampage finally stopped when the 28-year-old gunman, Lt. Sibusiso Madubela. was killed in a shoot-out with military officers at the base, located abCJul 220 miles south of Johannesburg in Bloemfontein, capital of the sparsely populated farming province of Free State. Police said lhe motivn was not immedi­atl'ly clear, but declinnd to rult-i oul race. 
Floyd reaches New York 
NEWYOHK 

The remnants of Hurricane Floyd shut down the city that never sleeps Thursday, sending workers home early, curtailing commuter train service and forcing an almost unprece­dented shutdown of schools. In preparation for the heavy wind and rain that was expected to hit around the evening rush hour, Mayor Rudolph Giuliani ordered all non-emergency city workers to go home between noon and 3 
p.m. Ile also urged private businesses to close early if they could. "My daughter was excited -she didn't have to take the bus to school today," said William Wilcox. whose little girl attends a Catholic school in Manhattan. Although Floyd was downgraded to a tropical storm and expected to pass through Long Island, east of the city, an extra 1,000 police were in uniform to deal with any kind of emergency. 
Red Cross collects messages for hostages in Amazon 
QUITO, Ecuador 

The Hed Cross said Thursday it is collecting messages from f'umily. and friends of 12 for­eign hostages kidnapped near Ecuador's t\mazon border with Colombia. Authorities slill have not made contact with the kidnap­pcns, who five days ago abducted. an American, soven Canadians and four European tourisls in lhe dense Amazon forest ol' Ecuador's northwestern Sucumbios province, :11 miles from the Colombian bor­der. No ransom demand has been made and oflicials in Ecuador have not been able to con­clusively link the gang to leftist rebels or right-wing paramilitaries from neighboring Colombia. 1-lowevcr, a senior State Department official said Thursday in Washington that the Colombian guerrilla group Colombian Hevolutionary Armed Force!>, or Ft\HC, is responsible. 
liititdl1i 1tliMt41 
Dow AMEx: 
790.80 ]ONES -6·68 NasJaq:
-63.96 
2806.72 
JJ 
-7.42 
NYSE: 
607.32 
-1.15 

S&P 500: Composite 1318.48 
Volume:

10737.46 872,419,490
• 1.15 
VOLUME LEADERS 

!;~Ni!NU TlCEE! ) !.l!Y.01 i Sim.NG! fUC! 
QUIMT'.l'.t.H TVJIS  OUN  -.u.u  -lf..7!'500  20.00  
Ul'l'&lo C:ORJ'  lNTC  -.f.6  -,JSOO  a.:Z.fi:il.  
Kl'CJH')SCF"l' CORP  MSP'l'  . l.48  +1.3750  !l-4 .oo  
DSLL CONl'U't'SR  DliLL  +O,U  -+<O. 0625  '6.7,  
CISCO ST5T&M5 A.MSJl'IC'"-ONLita  csco AOL  -1.,n  unch -1.:nsa,  70. 50 8-'1. SE  
ORACU CORP '""' (HP 500)  ORCW...  -1.l.7 -t-0.li  -.'975 +O. 5125  4.2.19 132.45  
QARDl:N.COM me  ODEN  +56 .8)  +7,0IS00  U.OE  
CI'IJGJ\OUP INC  C  ,..Q,JO  -t0,1275  fJ.19  

RUSSIA 


Associated Press 
VOLGODONSK 
President Boris Yeltsin, facing a political crisis after a fourth bombing in a month killed 17 people and wounded 180 others Thursday, said he has "'enough will and eriough resources for the struggle against terrorism." 
llis·statement came after the latest early-morning explosion at an apartment building. The four explo­sions together have killed at least 292 people. 
Prime Minister Vladimir Putin gave government agencies three days to come up with plans for strengthening security in industry, transport, com­emergency, which would munications, and energy allow Yeltsin to rule by installations, as well as in decree. But Yeltsin has residential areas. denied that and said he 

During will serve a meeting "I want to turn to military out the 
of his veterans, police veterans. remain­
Cabinet, der of his
Take the initiative 
he turned term , to the on yourselves." w hi Ch television expires in c.ameras m i d ­
Vladimir Putin 

a n d 2000.
Prime Minister

appealed 0 11 to citizens to protect themselves. Thursday, police discov­
"'I want to turn to mili­ered a "'huge amount" of tary veterans, police veter­explosive powder in a ans. Take the initiative on southern Moscow suburb, yourselves," he said. hidden among sacks of 
Moscow is abuzz with sugar from a plant in speculation the govern­southern Russia, a ment will declare a state of spokesman said. The 
lnterfax news agency reported that the cache was almost 3 1/2 tons. Police also uncovered ·six timing devices, apparently designed to detonate bombs, the Federal Security Service said. 
Thursday's bomb, hidden in a .truck or an under­ground pipe, sheared off the front of a nine-story apartment building in the city of Volgodonsk, about 500 miles south of Moscow, around dawn, officials said. The blast left a crater 16 1/2 feet deep in front of the building and severely damaged a near­by police station and about 20 other buildings, Interior Ministry officials said. 
ALGERIA 

Voters approve new peace plan 
Associated Press 
ALGIERS 
Algerians overwhelming­ly approved a peace plan designed by their new president to rnconcile a nation torn apart by an lslamic·insuq,.{r. ncy, accord­ing to preliminary results Friday of a national refer­endum. 
More than 9R percent of Algeria's 17 million voters said "yos" Thursday to tho single question: "Do you agree with the steps by the president ol' the republic towar.d civil concord'?" 
The approval of was a 

strong endorsement for President Abdelaziz Boutef1ika, who was elect­ed in April after six other candidates withdrew, charging widespread fraud. 
About 61 percent of the oligible population turned out to vote in the April election. About 85 percent cast ballots in Thursday's referendum. 
lfoutetlika's plan is intended to end violence that has left 100,000 peo­ple dead since 1992. 
The centerpiece of Houteflika's peace plan is an amnesty and prison term reduction for all Islamic insurgents, except those convicted of rape, murder or planting bombs, provided they give up their weapons. The initiative has already been passed by parliament. 
National reconciliation has been Boutellika's top priority since he was fllect­ed in April after six other candidates withdrew, charging widespread fraud. 
Thursday's referendum was seen as a plebiscite for Bouteflika, Algeria's first civilian leader in 24 years. Ile has pledged to step down if voters do not approve his proposal. 
The streets of the capital, Algiers, were calm Thursday and shops were open as usual. 
Campaign posters and crowds in front of polling stations were the only evi­dence of the "'historic day" announced by state media. Bouteflika voted early Thursday, renewing his call for a massive turnout. 
The peace plan will rnin­tegrate Islamic militants into society. The insur­gency began in 1992 after the army canceled elec­tions the now-banned Islamic Salvation Front was poised to win. 

page 6 
----~·----------------------------------------------..-.-, 
The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS 
Friday, September 17, 1999 


school," Canalas said.· "Notre Dame remained true to itself." 
HosParchers understand how Notre Dame's institutional iden­tity factored heavily in the Big Ten decision. 
"There are people who fear Notre Dame becoming more visible in research," Merz said. Some believe, he said, that becoming more research-ori­ented may undermine the University's undergraduate reputation. . 
There was an overwhelming agreement among some of Merz's colleagues that "going to the Big Ten would've been advantageous for the grad school," he said. 
"It would've been a big.help in many ways," Merz said. "I was for it." 
However, he added, staying independent was "probably the right decision" for the University as a whole. "[ButJ in a sense, it makes what I'm try­ing to do a lot harder." 
In the wake of the decision, University provost Nathan Hatch initiated eight task forces to investigate research aspects of the University. Merz served on the task force studying the formation of consortia relations with organizations other than the CIC. 
The Future 
Merz said he is optimistic for the graduate school and was quick to note that the Big Ten should no longer be part of the 
school's focus. "You just move on," Merz said. "We move on from here." 
The graduate school has a 10­year plan, Merz said, to "increase research funding by a factor of two or three. 
"If we can do that, we can join the AJ\U [Association of American Universities]," he said. 
Membership in the AJ\U is one requirement for a school to be considered a major research university, 
The school also plans to expand its library collections and build bigger and better laborato­ries to help attract more and bet­ter teachers. 
"As we hire good people, more good people will want to come," he said. 

Grads 
continued from page 1 
humans, has three graduate students, two post-doctoral stu­dents and two research assis­tant professors working in his lab throughout the year. 
"They're invaluable. [The! work couldn't be done without them," llyde said. 
Total research funding last year was an all-tim{! high $34.l million. According to Merz, this generates about $6 million for "indirect costs ''to the University, including heat. lighting and water. The University put in nearly $3 mil­lion for 
renown as a major research university," he said. 
Orn~ advance in science occurred recently when the University joined an interna­tional consortium of universi­ties and a private foundation to build the Large Binocular Telescope (LBT). 
The LBT, when it is complet­ed in 2002, will he the most powrrful and versatile tele­scopes in the world, according to Notre Dame Public Relations and Information. 
Students will be able to study information gathered from the tel'escope in classrooms in Nieuwland Science Hall. 
"Our involvement will help build a stronger research pro· gram for both 

"matching" u'ndergradu­research "They 're invaluable. ate and grad­funds not [The] work couldn't be uate stu­
gathered from dents," said
done without them." 

private and Jeffrey federal agen­Kantor, a University
cies. David Hyde
Professors vice president
associate professor of

seek research and associate 
biological sciences

funding main­provost, in a 
ly through pri-prepared vate founda-statement. "It tions and federal agencies. The also will help increase our University's largest single undergraduate science recruit­research program is the radia­ment efforts, provide additional tion laboratory, which. funded sources for external research by the U.S. Department of funding and give Notre Dame a Energy, utilizes $4.5 million a new level of scientific prestige." year. 
Hyde's research -nearly 
The Big Ten 

$400,000 in direct costs -cur­
While many undergraduates

rently is funded by four grants. 
may have seen the University's

Graduate students doing 
decision to not join the Big Ten research get paid a University-. 

as a reaffirmation of sports'

established stipend of $15,000 
independence, the academic 

a year. according to Hyde. 
ramifications for graduate stu­According to medieval studies dents were less recognized. 

and philosophy graduate stu­By joining the Big Ten, Notre dent Mike Waddell, many stu­
Dame would have become a 

dents doing research receive 
member of the Committee on 

tuition wavers from the 
Institutional Cooperation [CIC].

Univflrsity for their work. 
an academic consortium of 12 

Salaries differ between human­
institutions including the ities work and scientific 

Universities of Chicago and

research, Waddell said. 
Michigan. This merger may not Humanities students may take have appealed to many under­home around $507 every two graduate students, but gradu­

weeks, while science students ate students could ultimately
could get up to $640 bi-weekly. 
have benefited. 

Waddell has a fellowship, 
The CIC would have openedwhich means his first year of doors for graduate students to 

study is free. Later, he will 
share research ideas and infor­

move on to paid dissertation mation with other member
research. 
institutions, as well as gain

Science fellowships work in access to their libraries. 
nearly the same way, except 
"From a scientific standpoint, 

that students are usually 
l was disappointed," said chem­expected to teach during their istry graduate student Melanie first year. 

Peldo, who added that the access to equipment and study Rankings reports would have greatly ben­
Notre name's graduate school efited research progress. failed to make the U.S. News Waddell said understands and World how equip-Report's top rn e n t 
50 in busi-"As we hire good people, resources are ness, engi-more good people will attractive to 
neering, sci­students. espe­
want to come."

ence or Ph. D. cially those programs this involved in sci­vear. Jim Merz ence pro­
-T h a t doesn't mean Notre Dame  vice president for Graduate Studies and Research  grams. However, for humanities  
doesn't have  students, who  
good gradu­ need libraries  

ate programs in those fields, and professors. Notre Dame Merz said. currently offcrs excellent 
These rankings, Mllrz said, resources, he continued, noting include size in their criteria, that the Hesburgh Library is which works against Notre the best resource for his field of Dame, with its small programs. study. 
"Size is a factor. We should Even if Notre Dame had never be a large research uni­joined the CIC, current students versity like Michigan, !or MITI," would probably would not have he said. "We need to focus in felt the effects, said Maria areas where we could be good.'' Canalas, president of the 
Prestigious rankings are Graduate Student Union. uased on a weighted average of "It wouldn't have affecied us specific measures such as repu­at all. It would've affected later tation, placement success and students," said the chemistry student selectivity. Scores are student. tallied from questionnaires sent Canalas noted research-shar­to officials at schools with grad­ing relationships with other uate study programs. institutions can be formed if 
Merz said he tries for success students "show some guts" and with scienctl and engineering ask to share information. programs. "The mission of this school is 
"It's our surest approach to so different than a [Big Ten.] 

Friday, September 17, 1999 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Justice Kennedy talks to London students about U.S. law 
judges and lawyers. It's the tion." present day and that the international courts somewhat By ANNE MARIE people's." Kennedy explained that the American people's under­removed from their people," he MATTINGLY Kennedy noted that the First Revolutionarv War occurred in standing of the Constitution said. London Correspo ndcm Amendment is of particular part because colonists wanted evolves into new meanings as "I see [decisions] that look like 
signilicance in developing cili­more involvement with their time passes. rulings from .an administrative 
zens' interest in the document government and legal system. "Each generation has to agency," Kenrnidy said of the
The interest ol' American cit­
"The First Amendment is "It really relearn the international courts. "I don't see
izPns in their Constitution and 
vnry important. because it was an Constitution in that reasoning, that rhetoric that
thn legal system based upon it ''The Constitution doesn't
gives the citizen a tangiblo accomplished the contr.xt of characterizes !the American
is unique 
belong to judges
stake in the Constitution," hl-l feat before we its own time," legal system)." 
among 
said. "Loyalty to the had a justifi­and lawyers. he said, noting Kennedy graduated from
world coun­
Constitution is not sonrn g<!net­cation, and the constitu­Stanford University in 1958 and
tries, said 
It's the people's." 
ic thing. It has to be taught." when we tional debate spent the following year studying
SuprBlllf\ 
Kennedy noted that legalistic declared our on flag-burn­at the London School of
Court 
thinking and concern about indepen-Anthony Kennedy ing. as an Economics. He rnceived his
.I ll s t i C f1 
constitutional mattPrs has dence, we Supreme Court Justice example. "It degree from Harvard Law School 
Anthony 
been a hallmark of American said, 'We teaches you in 1961 and was admitted to the
Kennedy in 
citizens throughout history. want free-that liberty California Bar Association in 
a loclure 
"Americans in the 1760s dom,"' he said. "We wanted to isn't cost-free." 1962.
Thursday to Kennedy 
were probably the most legally be part of a constitutional Kennedy said he believes that After spending 12 years in pri­
Notre Danw 
literaw people the world has process, and the English con­citizens of other nations do not vate practice, Kennedy was
students in 
nvr,r known," r~xplaincct stitutional system was too deli­take as great of an interest in thf1 appointed by President Gerald
London. "Americans !during 
Kc11nedy. "We didn't have cate. There simply wasn't any rulings of their courts because Ford to the 9th Circuit U.S. Court
lhP lfovolulion-arv Warl now 
many lawyers. but [law books room [to allow) the colonies to these courts are removed from of Appeals in 1976. President
identify th!~msdves as existing 
were! on the bookshelves. be part of' that." their everyday lives. Ronald Reagan nominated him
!'or a Constitution. lltl is their 
America has been legalistic in Kennedy noted that the pat­"[Americans question] the his­to the Supreme Court bench in
self-identity." he said. "The 
its self-definition ever since. tern of debate over constitu­torical basis that allows the 1987 and the Senate confirmed
Constitution doesn't belong to 
For us. soveroignty was a solu-tional issues continues in tho transfor of sovernignty to thesn him the next year. 

Got News? Call 1-5323. 
Campus View Apartments 
• 
Ren1otleletl Luxury Suites 

•Furnished, 
Convenient & Affordable 

• 
St.udent Lease Tern1s 

• 
Wulk to ND & Shops 


Call for Details! 272-1441 www.rent.net/direct/campusview 
FRIDAY 5EPfEMBER ;24-rH Af 5f.PAf'5 COUNfY PARK KONCERf5 FOR KID5 

_J 
w 
er: 
::) <( 
__J AUTEN RD 
WELCOMES 
Sister Hazel 

Krause statue to be unveiled 
. Sculpture to honor legendary coach, AD 
By HELENA RAYAM 
News Writer 

One of the most memorable figures in the history of Notre Dame athletics will be hon­ored today when the new Edward "Moose" Krause sculpture is unveiled in front of the Joyce Center at 2 p.m. 
"Moose is considered to be one of the great legends of Notre Dame," said executive vice president emeritus Father Edmund Joyce. 
Krause was known as a ver­satile student athlete until his graduation from Notre Dame 
I l­
a: 0 
z 
..... 
(V).___ ND 
TICKETS $16.50 IN ADVANCE, $21.50 DAY OF SHOW AVAILABLE AT LAFORTUNE CENTER, ORBIT MUSIC AND ST PATRICK'S COUNTY 
PARK! CALL277-4828 FOR MORE INFO! 

in 1934, Joyce said. He was a Frank Leahy sculpture outside member of the football, bas­Notre Dame Stadium. ketball, baseball and track After years of coaching in teams earning monograms in Minnesota and Massachusetts, each sport. Krause returned to the 
His numerous athletic University in 1942 as an assis­achievements include being tant basketball and football named an All-American in coach. Eventually, he became basketball and football, and the assistant athletic director induction into the National under Frank Leahy, and final­Basketball Hall of Fame in ly succeeded Leahy in 1951. 1976. During Krause's tenure, the 
The bronze sculpture of Irish football team won four Krause shows him sitting, fac­national championships and ing Notre Dame Stadium the basketball team made 16 
while holding  appearances  
a hat ­sym­bolic of the sombreros  "Moose is considered to be one ofthe great  in the NCAA tournament. The size of  
Krause often wore.  legends ofNotre Dame."  the athletic department  
"Whenever you saw him, he was always  Father Edmund Joyce executive vice president  increased, as 10 new sports were  
wearing  a  emeritus  added,  and  

Texas ten gal­lon hat," said current assistant athletic director George Kelly. 
According to Kelly, Krause received a sombrero as a gift when Notre Dame attended the Cotton Bowl of 1968. He continued to wear big hats afterward. 
The idea for Krause to be honored came about a year ago when his family and friends wanted to pay him respect for his successful years as an athlete, coach, athletic director and humani­tarian. 
"I had admired him for years," said Kelly, who attend­ed the University when Krause was a student. 
Kelly and Joyce both served on the Krause sculpture com­mittee, along with others including former Notre Dame football head coach Ara Parseghian. 
The sculpture was made by Jerry McKenna, a 1962 gradu­ate. McKenna also created the 
Like to write? Write for us. Call Tim at 1-5323. 
there was a 

growth in women's varsity sports. The Joyce Center was also built while Krause was athletic director. 
Krause often went to con­ventions to represent Notre Dame with other members of the athletic department, build­ing connections nationwide. 
"He knew everybody that was somebody," Joyce said. 
In addition to helping the Notre Dame athletic depart­ment. Krause was active in the South Bend community. He advocated fighting against alcoholism as a member of the Alcohol Council of St. Joseph county and the Indiana Citizens' Council on Alcoholism. Krause was also inducted into the South Bend Hall of Fame for his service. 
The statue-revealing cere­mony is expected to be brief. and members of the sculpture committee and Krause's chil­dren will attend the dedica­tion. 
page 8 The Observer . NEWS Friday, September 17, 1999 
Soisson receives top Alumni Assoc. award 
Special to The Observer 
H.ichard Soisson, a 1950 University of Notre Dame graduate from Kalamazoo, Mich., will receive the Notre Dame Alumni Association's Harvey G. Foster Award for distinugished civic and athletic endeavors. 
He will be honored at a din­ner at the Morris Inn today and at halftime of the Nore Dame-Michigan State football game Saturday. 
Soisson is a full-time volun­teer counselor at Kalamazoo's Hackett Catholic Central High School, where he coached for 41 years, taught for 30 years and headed the guidance 
off'i ce f'o r 15 yetrrs before retiring in 1991. He also is treasurer of "Caring for Kids," which offers leadership work­shops and drug education pro­grams for high school students throughout Michigan. He was also recognized by the 
Michigan state  senate  for  
exemplary  work  with  the  
youth of Kalamazoo.  

Soisson served as president of the Notre Dame Club of Kalamazoo and received the club's 1999 award. His other awards include induction into the Oetroit Free Press and the Michigan High School Football Coaches Association llalls of Fame. 
Soisson twice was named Michigan coach of the year, and the Hackett Catbolic High football stadium was renamed in his honor in 1984, the year he became one of the first Michigan high school foothall coaches to reach 200 victo­ries. 
Soisson entered Notre Dame with a football scholarship from coach frank Leahy, but only played one year before suffering a career-ending knee injury. He and his wife, Rosemary. had seven chil­dren, three of whom are Notre Dame graduates. 

RUSSIA 
Police hold suspects in apartment blasts 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 

Police detained two suspects in connection with the deadly apartment blasts in Moscow, and authorities pressed ahead with a security sweep today in a bid to halt a wave of explosions in Russia. 
Also, a small explosive device blew up in an apartment build­ing in St Petersburg, killing two people and injuring three. 
The Thursday night blast was the sixth fatal bombing in Russia in less than three weeks. with nearly 300 people killed altogether. However, the St. Petersburg explosion was not on the same scale as the other apartment bombings, and authorities viewed it as unrelat­ed. 
President Boris Yeltsin's gov­ernment is under increasing pressure to end the attacks and drive out Islamic militants from southern Russia, where they have been battling Russian forces for more than a month in Dagestan. 
Russian leaders say the mili­tants, many of them from the breakaway territory of Chechnya, are also responsible for the bombing campaign in Russia. 
Police have been targeting dark-skinned people from southern Russia for document checks, and the two suspects detained in Moscow are both of Chechen origin. Police have detained a number of Chechens in recent days, but so far no one has been formally charged. 

r~---------, 
I l'§l~1et1r J)t'itlZt:?\J( I 
: (219) 271-7674 : 
I "Contemporary Hair Styles 7 Days A Week" I 
I 1811 South Bend Ave. • South Bend, IN 46637 I 
: $2.00 OFF : I HAIRCUT! I 
I ~ I I I I I 
I ...............~ I I I 
I WALKING DISTANCE TO I I CAMPUS I 
(coupon expires 9130199) .J

L 
Burns named scientist of the year 
By LAURA ROMPF News Writer 

The Geological Society of America recently named Peter Rums, associate professor of civil engineering and geologi­cal sciences at Notre Dame, its 1999 young scientist of the year. 
This award is given annually to someone 35 years of age or younger for achicvemfmts in geological knowledge through original research that makes a major advance in the earth sciences. 
"I was very excited when I won," Burns said. "There is only one award given by the society in the world per year. I felt shocked and pleased at winning the unexpected honor." 
The award, also named the Donath medal f'or its donors, is a $15,000 cash prize and a guld medal. Burns's work on mineral structures near the surface of the earth led to the discovery of the complex details associated with the atomic arrangements of crys­tals. This intricate research led a colleague to nominate Burns for the award. 
Students of Burns said his recognition is well deserved. 
"His excellent qualities as a teacher were displayed for me in mineralogy class," said Jennifer Ryan, a senior in Welsh Family Hall. "His fasci­nation with minerals, knowl­edge regarding the newest research in the field, and dry humor contributed to a lively class dynamic." 
Burns's research in uranium 
mineralogy also gained him 
international recognition. His 
study will research ways to 
safely dispose nuclear waste. 
Burns wishes tu maintain both the research and teach­ing aspects of his academic career. 
"My goal for the future is to continue building the program 
here at Notre Dame, " Burns said. "I want to carry on strengthen­ing the undergr:tdu­ate, graduate and post doc­torate pro­grams, hop­ing to build the programs as we go." 
order to happily and cheerful­ly help me to complete mine," she added. 
Burns, a native of New Brunswick, Canada, received a 
8.S. from the University of 

"My goal for the future is to continue building the program here at Notre Dame. " 
Peter Burns associate professor of civil engineering and geological sciences 
Experience _d~ning in the truet).J?.~
spirit of Notre Dame. 
Qg!N_s 
631-2020 
Rrunswick in 1988, a M.S. in geology from the University of Western O.ntario in 1990 and a Ph.D. also i.n geology from the University of Manitoba in 1994. lie conducted post-doctoral 

Future students am lucky to have Burns's enthusiasm lead­ing their way, Ryan said. 
"I can say that I am indebted to him more than once for set­ting aside his own projects in research at the University of Cambridge in England and the University of New Mexico in Albuquerque before joining the Notre Dame faculty in 1997. 

McDonald's Diversity Initiative Group 
WILL SPEAK ON 
Diversity and Mcoonald's vou Deserve Aareak TOday!! 
Tuesday, September 21, 1999 COBA Room 121 3:30 to 4:30 Presented by COBA Diversity You are all welcome 



Friday, September 17, 1999 The Observer . CA.M:PUS NEWS page 9 
Reynolds analyzes smooth '99 South African elections 

By CHRIS DESBARRES 
News Writer 

Despite the lingering e!l'ecL, of decades of apartheid, South Africans this summer enjoyed a smooth transition of power to new president Thabo Mbeki, assistant government professor Anct.rnw Keynolds said on Thursday. 
The June election was South Africa's first since 1994, when the Nelson Mandela-led African National Congress (ANC} won control of the government. A major question loading up to the vote was if the ANC would be able to gain control of a two­thirds majority in the South African National Assembly, Reynolds said. This would empower them to enact any Constitutional amendments they wished. 
While the ANC achieved that supPrmajority, the National Party -whic:h had maintained apartheid whilA it was in control -suffered heavy losses, winning only six percent of the vote. · 
"The NP led a somewhat disas­trous campaign," Reynolds said. "We might be seeing the final death throes of the National Party." 
One of the major surprises of the eler.tion was the success of the Democratic Party, Reynolds said. Originally a party of anti­apartheid whites, the Democratic Party shifted drastically to the right, proclaiming that they were "the only party committed to a non-ANC alliance," as well as urging disenfranchised whit•~ voters to "Fight Back." 
"One of the ironies ol' their campaign," said Reynolds, "is that they are now seen as a more racist party, even though their voting pattern became more eth­nically diverse." 
Twelve percent of the total vote from the Democratic Party came from black voters, a phenome­non that Reynolds was largely unable to explain. Ilis only con­jecture was that some black vot­ers, who still work domestically for whites, could have voted for the DP out of a lingering sense of subservience. 
The diversification of voting patterns is a phenomenon that dominated this year's election, he said. While the ANC lost four percent of the black vote, they earned enough support among voters to more than replace the slight attrition. 
''The ANC does appeal across the spectrum," said Reynolds. "Parties are becoming less ethni­cally homogenous." 
It now appears that voters arc increasingly becoming more con­cerned with issues other than race, he said. A soaring crime rate and continuing poverty are just two of the major obstacles that the ANC-led govr,rnmcnt hopes to address in the coming years. 
The United Democratic Movement, a party promoting cooperation between the races, is generaUy regarded as the only party capable of mounting a viable opposition to the ANC in 2004, "Many people sec them as the one party with potential for growth," Reynolds said. 
Reynolds is a fellow of the Kellogg Institute. He worked for the United Nations and has served as a constitutional consul­tant for several nations. 
SMC faculty earn promotions 

By NICOLE HADDAD 
l\icws Writer 

A number of Saint Mary's faculty members have been granted promotions for the 1999-2000 school year. 
Toni Barstis of the chemistry and physics department has been promoted to associate professor and given tenure. 
Dale Banks, in the education department, has been promot­ed to assistant professor with tenure. 
No plans this fall break? 
Interested in exploring career options? 
Wondering how to form relationships with the Notre Dame Alumni Network? 
Then you should consider applying for... 
The Extern Program 
Sponsored by the Student Alumni Relations Group 
What is the Extern Program? 
A chance for YOU to interact with Notre Dame Alumni in occupations that 
• 
match your career interests. 
• An opportunity for day to day experience in your prospective career out there in the real world. 
Who can participate? 
• ALL Notre Dame students are encouraged to get involved! 
How can I be an Extern? 
• Pick up an application at the Alumni Association located in th~ Eck Center across from the book store, or call the SARG phone at 1-3938. 

"I am pleased that I am now a more permanent part of the Saint Mary's family and look forward to spending many productive years here in the Education Department," he said. 
Theodore Billy, in the English department, has been promoted to professor. 
"Being promoted gives you a different feeling about the col­lege," he said. '.'Instead of feel­ing as though you're an employee at the school, it feels as though it's a part of you." 
In the modern languages department, Nancy D'Antuono, has been promoted to profes­sor. 'Tm delighted with my promotion and look forward to continuing my work -with the Rome Program," she said. 
Nancy Nekvasil has been 
Sound too good to be true? Okay there is one catch-you have to get your applications in by September 24th to better the chances ofa match for this fall break!
~-{;{:>, P..ssoC'. • 
:::, . ,:;. 
--t'. ~ ::i 

.., -0 
NOTRE DAME 

promoted to professor in the biology department. 
"I worked hard to get here, but now it's back to work," she said. 
Having been involved in the humanistic studies depart­ment for 18 years, John Shinners has been pr()moted to professor and is tremen­dously pleased with his pro­motion. He said that it is his "last step in life as a faculty member and a college recog­nition of my accomplish­ments." 
David Stefancic, an assistant history professor, Ann Clark, a philosophy professor, Donald Miller, professor of mathemat­ics, Thomas Parisi, professor of psychology and Jill Vihtelic, professor of business adminis­tration, were also promoted. 
ts.to Sat 5-1op.m. mlcrobrew selection in Michiana . JI love to cater your next event (tail:.. !) egance, featuring Jenny Cruz on 
the Town & Country Shopping minute drive from campus (eo:hter d McKinley) I at 259-WILD!!! 
page 10 The Observer . ELECTION NEWS Friday, September 17, 1999 
Bradley calls for more 
gay rights protections 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Lining. up more closely with the homosexual community's agenda than Vice President Al Gore, Democratic presidential hopeful Bill Bradley called for 
expanding the 1964 C i v i l Rights Act to protect gays and lesbians. 
Bradlev a I s ~ 


rej e c te d Bradley t h e Clinton administration's "don't ask, don't tell" policy for the armed services and said, "We ought to get to a time when gays can serve openly in the military." 
The former New Jersey senator) in a gay and lesbian ncwsmagazine interview <lue on newsstands Sept. 28, went on to criticize a California anti-gay-marriage ballot initiative. · 
"If I was a voter in California, I would not sup­port the Knight initiative," Bradley told The Advocate. "I think it's divisive and ... I don't think a referendum is the place for this kind of an initiative." 
Bradley said he still oppos­es same-sex marriage because of "the religious nature of marriage and respect for the diversity of views on that subject." Both he and Gore, who also opposes same-sex marriage, favor legal protections for "domestic partners." 
Bradley and Gore, rivals for next vear's Democratic presidential nomination, are dueling for the gay and les­bian vote. 
On several issues dear to that community, Bradley, in his interview. came out ahead of positions that Gore laid out in a separate Advocate inter­view. published last month. 
On the so-called Knight ini­tiative on California's March , 2000 ballot, a bellwether for the gay community because it would define marriage as between a man and woman 
Careet~ 
) 
Go 1RJSH? Resume?
J Internship? ~,~ 

~e•re Here for YOU/ 
A Career Counselor 
Will he HERE 
MONDAYS 
ll:30a.m. -I:30p.m. in the 

SORIN ROOM t 
at • 
~fl} 
Sp0111ure~~'F;,~et~.:'.:,,. Cm/er VZ 
only, Gore tol.d The Advocate: 'Tm going to have to educate myself on that measure." 
Late Thursday, after Bradley's interview was released, Gore campaign spokeswoman Kikki Moore said the vice president had decided he would, if he was a California resident, also vote "no" on Knight. "Consider him educated," Moore said. 
Going further than Gore's push for a pending anti-job­discrimination bill, Bradley said he would add sexual ori­entation to the historic 1964 ac1. outlawing racial, religious and sex discrimination in employment, housing, lending and public accommodations. 
"That would clearly indicate that discrimination against gays is in the same category as discrimination against other protected groups," Bradley said. 
Such an expansion was first championed by New York lib­eral Hep. Hella Abzug in 1973. But in 1993, the gay communHy considered public­opinion polls, pared back its hopes and pursued the more widely politically palatable Employment Non­Discrimination Act. 
Moore said Gore is focusing on the act as "the most prac­tical way to move forward on an agenda of non-discrimina­tion" because "it can actually pass." 
U.S. Civil Rights Commission chairwoman Mary Frances Berry, who was appointed by President Clinton, called Bradley's approach "naive." 
"I hope it doesn't go any­where. We have avoided opening up the Civil Rights Act for fear that [conserva­tive] amendments would be added to gut it," Berry said. 
In the military, Bradley said, homosexuals should be allowed to serve openly, but he admitted that he has not determined "the timing and method" of such a change to military policy. 
Bradley voted in 1993 for a Senate amendment to lift out­right tho military's ban on gays. 
)
? i
I JGb! 

Gore blasts Bush stance on guns 
Associated Press 

SAN DIEGO 
Vice President Al Gore launched twin attacks on Republican front-runner George W. Bush, charging 1.hat his education plan would "dev­astate" public schools and rejecting the Texas governor's contention that more gun laws would not have prevented a shooting rampage in a Fort Worth church. 
Gore, who is seeking the Democratic presidential nomi­nation, ignored his lone pri­mary opponent, former Sen. Bill Bradley. 
During 12 hours of stumping through Southern California on Thursday, Gore returned again and again to themes of gun control and education that distinguish him from Bush, who leads the GOP presiden­tial field in polls and in fund­raising. 
Gore's remarks on guns came one day after a gunman opened fire in a Fort Worth, Texas, church, leaving seven victims and the shooter dead. 
Bush said that "a wave of evil" -not a lack of gun con­trol laws -was the cause of rampant gun violence in America. 
Gore, in contrast, said, "We can do something to cut down on the kinds of tragedies that these people have suffered in Fort Worth." 
"We do know that the avail­ability of assault weapons and deadly_ weapons in the hands of people who shouldn't have them contributes to a repeat in [such] incidents, to having these things happen over and over again," Gore said. 
Bush signed a law in 1995 that allowed Texans to carry concealed weapons with a per­mit. 
The law banned guns from appearance _on CNN's "Larry certain places, such as King Live." churches and synagogues, Bush spokeswoman Mindy 
But Gore aides noted that in Tucker said the Republican 
1997 Bush signed anoth­er law forcing houses of worship to post signs or hand out cards alerting visitors that guns are off­lim its. The law barred prosecution of those who 

"We can do something to cut down on the kinds of tragedies that these people have suffered in Fort Worth. " 
Al Gore vice president 
Turtle Creek 

Parking By Permit Only 
Friday 4:00 p.m. to Sunday 6:00 p.m. 
Towing By Mark's Towing 1505 W. Sample South Bend, IN 46619 
Meet Rocky Bleier, Captain of the 1967 Notre Dame Football Team, and author of 
Fighting Back 

Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore Saturday Morning, September 18 9:00-11:00 AM 
governor believes cer­tain gun-con­trol laws, such as instant back­ground checks, have merit. But quoting Bush, she said: "What gov· ernment can't do is make 

bring guns into churches, unless thoy received such notice. 
"Has it come to this? Are we not even safe in church any­more?" Goro said in a Hollywood studio during an 
people love each other and take evil out of people's hearts." 
In a speech to Hispanic busi­ness leaders, Gore offered his sharpest criticism yet of Bush's education plan. 

Friday, September 17, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Feds allow sale, export of encryption technologies 
Associated f>ress 
WASIIINGTON 

The White llouse agreed Thursday to allow U.S. compa­nies to sell the most powerful data-scrambling t.cchnulogy overseas with virtually no restrictions, a concession to i\mcrica·s high-tech industry over law 0nforcr,nrnnt and national security objections. 
The move was a defoat for the .lustier, Dnpartment. which had forcefully argued that criminals and terrorists might use the tPc:hnology lo scramble mes­saglis about. crimns or deadly plots. 
Even as the new poli~y was announced, Attorney General Janet Reno said at the White I-louse, "In stopping a terrorist attack or seoking to rncover a kidnapped child, encountering imcryption might mean the dif­ference between success and catastrophic failure." She said the policy "will mean that morn tPrrorists and criminals will use encryption." 
To help law enforcement, the WhitP House will urge Congress to give the FBI $80 million over four years to develop techniques to break messages scrambled by terrorists . 
"In stopping a terrorist attack or seeking to recover a kidnapped child, encountering encryption might mean the difference between success and catastrophic failure." 
Janet Reno 
Attorney General 
The dedsion should help U.S. companies in overseas competi­tion -and help consumers worldwide guarantee the priva­cy of their e-mail and online credit-card purchases. Although Reno described dire conse­quences of criminals using encryption, she readily acknowl­edged the technology "is criti­cally important for protecting our privacy and our security, and the administration." 

The White House's announce­ment comes as Vice President Al Gore, a self-described technolo­gy buff. courts the favor of the booming high-tech industry dur­ing his presidential campaign. 
"This decision by the vice president, who was really lead­ing this effort, now is consistent with the views of·virtually everyone in the technology com­munity." said Robert Holleyman, executive director of the Business Software Alliance. 
Critics of restrictions on export sales said criminals and terrorists already could buy or download powerful encryption technology made in other coun­tries. 
"Those who are going to mis­use encryption for criminal pur­chases aren•t going to limit themselves to U.S,-made encryption products," said Ed Gillespie, executive director of Americans for Computer Privacy. 

Gates funds lllinority college scholarships 
The program will be admin­
Associated Press 
istered by the United Negro 


Spectrum Sports Sale 
"Officially Licensed" 
Notre Dame Products 
At 

Logan Center  
Weekend  
Football Weekend Specials;  Was  Special  
Champion Navy ND Swcatshirt ................................................. $39.95  $24.95  
Champion ND Lightweight Jacket.. ..................... : ..................... $59.95  $24.95  
Selected ND I fats ...................................................................... $24.95  $ 9.95  
ND Golf Headcover 1-3-5 .......................................................... $34.95  $19.95  

Check Out the Great Selection ofNotre Dame Products at the Logan Center 
Friday Sept. 17th, 1 :30 p.m.-6:30 p.m. Saturday Sept. 18th, 8:00 a.m. until 1:30 p.m. 
*Logan Center located south of the stadium at the corner of Eddy and Juniper *Free gift to first 50 purchases-compliments of Spectrum Sports (309-786-9318) 
SEATTLE 

Microsoft Corp. Chairman Bill Gates and his wife are donating $1 billion over the next 20 years to finance col­lege scholarships for minority students. 
"It is critical to America's future that we draw from the full range of talent and ability to develop the next generation of leaders," Gates said in a statement issued before a news conference at the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. 
The gift -being made through annual investments of $50 million a year -is the couple's largest single philan­thropic contribution and one of the largest ever, matching a $1 billion commitment by CNN founder Ted Turner to the United Nations. 
The Gates Millennium schol­arship program, which will begin next fall, will provide assistance to 1,000 students each year. 
The Gateses' goal is "to pro­vide financial assistance to high-achieving minority stu­dents who are in severe finan­cial need and otherwise would be excluded from higher edu­cation." 
College Fund with support and participation by the Hispanic Scholarship Fund and American Indian College Fund. 
"This is truly a historic day. It's a wonderful moment," said William Gray Ill, president of the United Negro College Fund, told the news confer­ence. 
Not only will we change indi­vidual lives, we will change the educational landscape." 
The Gates Foundation focus­es on programs in global health and education. The scholarships will be in educa­tion,· engineering, math and science. 
Eligible students will be required to have a 3.3 grade­point average and be nominat­ed by a teacher or principal. They must also write an essay about their goals. and commit to performing community ser­vice. 
Winners would get enough money to cover tuition, room and board, and other expenses through college and graduate school. They must maintain a 
3.0 grade point average. 
Gates, whose company is the world's largest producer of computer software, has a net worth of more than $90 bil­lion. 

page 12 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Friday, Sepcember I7, 1999 
Lott: Congress surpasses limits 
. Senate leader blames budget 'emergencies' 
Associated Pres• 
WASHINGTON 
Reversing themselves, Republican leaders are con­ceding what many others have seen as inevitable for months: Congress will bust legally required spending limits this fall. 
"You have to be honest and acknowledge we're not going to meet the caps," Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott, R­Miss.. told reporters Thursday. "If for no other reason than the emergencies we've dealt with." 
Lott spoke after a busy Senate sent President Clinton legislation raising salaries for members of Congress, the next president and a host of top executive officials, and approved other measures as well. 
Lott said the spending limits would not technically be bro­Democrats have long seen ken. By law, budget "emergen­breaking the limits as an cies" Congress plans to declare inevitable response to spend­for the 2000 census and other ing pressures. Lawmakers also items exempts that spending say that few voters have heard from the limits. of the spending limits or care 

Even so, money that is sup­about them. 
posedly pro­tected by the limits would be spent. 
GOP lead­ers spent the first months of this year insisting the limits would not bA exceeded. 
"You have to be honest and acknowledge that we're not going to meet the caps." 
Trent Lott Senate Majority Leader 
Lott's comments spotlight how leaders have ve"red from that position as they struggle to find enough money to pay for fiscal 2000 spending mea­sures. 
Instead of promising to live within the spending limits, fl.epublican leaders are now emphasizing the proter.tion of Social Security surpluses and combatting President Clinton· demands for higher spending. 
!\1any Hepublicans and 

1 in 10 Americans born elsewhere 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
In some ways, the American population of today is begin­ning to resemble that of 1850,. with nearly one resident in 10 born in another country. 
But the resemblance is large­ly statistical. with the 19th century influx coming largely from Europe, while today's new arrival is more likely to be Asian or Latin American. 
During the 1990s, the nation's foreign-born popula­tion increased nearly four times faster than that of the native-born population, the Census Bureau says in a report released today. 
As of July 1, 1998. there were 25,208,000 foreign-born 
U.S. residents -9.3 percent of the population. That was up from 19,767,316 in the 1990 census, when they were 7 .9 percent of the population. 
The current share is close to the 9. 7 percent recorded in 
"Right now the biggest immigration groups are 
Hispanics and Asian­
Pacific Islanders." 
Robert Perkins Census demographer 
1850, the first year the Census Bureau asked people their place of birth. 
"Right now the biggest immi­gration groups are Hispanics and Asian-Pacific Islanders," said Census demographer Robert Perkins. 
The number of foreign-born Hispanics grew 34 percent from mid-1990 through mid­1998, from 8.0 million to 10.7 million. 
And among Asians and Pacific Islanders, the increase was from 4.6 million to 6.4 million in the same period. Indeed, foreign-born Asians outnumber native-born Asian­Americans, 6.4 million to 4.1 
azLearning.con1 
onlinc learning solution:, from a to zrM 

Study in your donn via the 
Web. Teacher assisted 
classes utilizing real test 
questions. 
Get Ready for the GMAT or LSAT !!! 
• 
Online classes begin in October 

• 
RnroU at ww,1v.azlcarn:ing.com 

• 
Be your competitive best!!: 


bttp://www.azJcarning.com/irish.htmJ 
email: info@azlearning.com 

Lawmakers of both par­ties say their goal now is to not spend any of next year's projected $147 billion Social Security sur­plus. 
But some 
Hepublicans, including House Budget Committee Chairman John Kasich, R-Ohio, have expressed concerns tbat some of that money will be spent, which they say would deal a major blow to the party's co-re conservatives. 
,Clinton's 2000 budget pro­posed breaking the limits by $30 billion, according to con­gressional analysts, and Republicans criticized him for it. 
White House asks 
Rodhams scrap deal 
Associared Press 

WASHINGTON 
The Clinton administration urged the president's brothers­in-law to get out of a business venture in the former Soviet 
republic of Georgia after an opponent of Georgian President Eduard Shevard­nadze tried 


to use that Clinton deal for his own political advantage. "Mr. Berger ... suggested that, all thiugs considered, that they should withdraw from this," White House spokesman Joe 
Lockhart said. 
Sandy Berger, Clinton's national security adviser, told Hugh and Tony Rodham earlier this month that their efforts to establish walnut and tea pro­
.cessing businesses in western Georgia were "being misrepre­sented as somehow reflecting a change in U.S. policy." Lockhart said Thursday. 
The brothers initially rejected the request, saying in a state­ment they had no reason to believe they are their associates were involved "in any illegal activities." But their lawyer, James Hamilton, later told The Washington Post they had decided to withdraw because they did not want "to do any harm to the first lady or the administration." 
million. 

During that time span, the foreign-born population grew by 27.1 percent, nearly four times the 7.1 percent increase in the native population, which increased from 228.9 million to 
245.1 million. 

The foreign-born share has been steadily increasing since its low point of 4. 7 percent of the population in 1970. However, it remains well below the peak of 14.8 percent in 1890 during the massive European migrations here. 

OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS INFORMATION MEETING 
MEXICO PROGRAMS 
Professor Juan Rivera Claudia Kselman Student Returnees 
Monday September 20. 1999 126 DeBartolo 4:45 PM 
IT'S NOT TOO LATE TO APPLY FOR SPRING 2000 
"'we do Mondays like no place else" Etuoy a double order of fajifas (enouah for two) for just 110.00 
BlJRatR ~E;Df!£;SD.AYS 
"Spend Wednesdays with the ones you love." Etuoy any Bia Moufh Bureer at 11.00 OFF our reaular pricel 
?AR.rt 1:1...t\rrtRS 
"The. party starts here." You proY1de the faiJeate we'II proYide ±he arub Par+y PiaHer,s 1ndude 'wina,; Over Buffalo. F'aji±as. Mombo Combo and more Pe1fecf for meetina,; or part1e..s 

Mishawaka 4810 Grape Road 219.271.1330 

+= :wz WWW 

Priday, Sepcember 17, 1999 The Observer . NEWS page 13 
--=---=========~-=-=-=--=--=-=-=--=--=-=-=-=--=--=--=-==-=~=---=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=~========================================---===-=-=-=-=-=-=-=--=-=--=--=--=-=-=-=-=-=-= 
Gore pushes for stricter on line stalking laws 
robruary and released it the report found. about 20 percent of the unit's
A..sociatcd Prrss tuday. Ile met with students, "Getting tougher And federal law contains cases involve cyberstalking. 
police and campus officials at sentences is part ofthe gaps that -in some cases hinder The report cited severalSAN DIEGO, Cal. 
San Diego State University to investigators from tracking chilling examples from other
Vice Prnsidenl Al Core said whole education process, 
discuss the report's findings cyberstalkers who repeatedly parts of the country.
Thursday that onlinc stalking so everybody takes this
and said more states should harass and threaten others on In one case, a Los Angeles
is a s1wious new prob­
follow the lead of California, crime as seriously as it the Internet, it said. security guard terrorized a
lem and statP and l'ederal laws 
which recently amended its The report surveyed steps woman who rejected his
must be should be taken"
stalking statute to cover cyber­that law enforcement, online romantic advances by postingstiffened to 
Al Gore

slalking. industries, victims groups and online messages that she fan­"to give us According to Gore, one in 12 Vice President others are taking to crack tasized about being raped, and
tools to 
womci1 will be victims of some down on cyberstalking, and listed her phone number and
deal with 
form of stalking during lheir explored whether existing laws address.
this crime 
lives, as will onH in 45 men. ar!:'! adequate to combat a On at least six occasions,
appropri­ment had left them unnerved.
"Ancl increasing numbers of problem it contends is on the sometimes in the middle of the
atPly." "They can find out things
thcm1 will be victims of cyber­rise. night, men knocked on her
A new about you that your friends
stalking," Gore said. Internet service providers, door saying they wanted to
Justice don't even know, and that's a
"Getting tougher sentences is which link users to e-mail and rape her.
DepartmPnt hard thing to deal with," one of
purl or the -whole education tho World Wide Web, report a A San Diego man sent more
report says the women said. 
pruccss, so everybody takes growing number of complaints than 100 e-mail messages to
statCT and l'ederal laws need to Two-thirds of states have no
this crime as seriously as it abuut harassing and threaten­five female students at area
bn updated to outlaw onlino laws on the books that explicit­
should be taken," he said. ing behavior online, it said. colleges last year.
stalking bct:auso the practice is ly cover stalking on the
Two women who declined to The head of the sex crimes They included d_eath threats 
on the ri.se. Internet or through other elec­
irlentify themselves at the ses­unit in the Manhattan District and sexual descriptions and
Gorn requested Lhe federal tronic communications means,
sion said electronic harass-Attorney's Otlice reported that references.
report on llrn problem in 

CERTIFIED Instructors t DESIGNER Tanning with ADVANCED TANMNG Systems 

_____________c.)~o
SUPER Size Beds & Booths t CLEAN & SANITARY! t CREDIT CARDS Accepted t OPEN 7 Days 


Your 
Plan? 
Time change causes political battles 
Associated Press 

.JERUSALEM 
The switch from daylight-sav­in g time to Eastern Standard Time is usually an excuse to sleep an extra hour. 
In the Mideast, it's a political act. Israelis switched early to promote religious redemption. Palestinians decided to wait two weeks, citing patriotism. 
As a result, the region has operated on two clocks -throw­ing a lot of people off schedule: Businessmen were kept waiting, peace negotiators double­checked their schedules, diplo­mats found their parties pooped. 
It apparently even muddled terrorists, who killed themselves instead of their targets when their bombs detonated an hour early. 
Ahmed Saman, a Jerusalem 
Celebrate the fall season 
·~ s

with a change in dining. 
confectioner, said he was grate­ful the confusion would end today, when the Palestinians were to switch to standard time. 
On Thursday, as for every day in the past two weeks, he had gotten up at dawn to get his kids to a Palestinian-run school, and then twiddled his thumbs at his shop for an hour, waiting for Israeli candy lovers to get their first fixes. 
Palestinian cab driver Muawia Bureidi was still seething over a passenger who asked to be picked up at 10 a.m. Bureidi pre­sumed Israeli time, and when he arrived, the client was long gone. "I lost 150 shekels ($35)." 
Israel made the switch overnight on Sept. 2 to accom­modate "Slihot," or Apologies, pre-sunrise penitential prayers that run from a week before the Jewish New Year through the Day of Atonement, Yorn Kippur. 
Orthodox parties in govern­ment have for years insisted on a switch that precedes the rest of the northern hemisphere by at least two weeks, saying that 5 
a.m. sunrises discourage syna­gogue attendance. 
Palestinians chafed at switch­ing early to please religious Jews. 
That led to tensions before Palestinians and Israelis talked peace. 
Palestinians who adjusted to Israeli time were derided by their neighbors for "living on Zionist time." 
Israeli soldiers would check Palestinian wrists: Timepieces set an hour ahead would some­times get smashed by angry sol­diers. The breakthrough 1993 Oslo peace agreement didn't change much. 

.........-------------_________.._..-,---------· ~ 
page 14 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 17, 1999 






Jimmy Carrera 
Avondale, AZ Old College ND '03 

Mark Coomes 
Sterling Heights, Ml Old College ND'03 

Phil Donner 

Three Oaks, MI Moreau Seminary ND'0O 

Geno Fernandez 
Pasadena, CA Moreau Seminary ND '97, Oxford U '99 

Greg Giefer 
St. Pau~ KS Old College ND 'OJ 


John Glynn Fairfax, VA Old College ND 'OJ 

J.P. Hurt Mark Laheey 
Terre Haute, IN Barrington, IL More.au Seminary Old College ND '97, ACE '99 ND '02 
"CHRIST expects GRFAT things from YOUNG PEOPLE" 
--Pope John Paul II 
On August 11, fourteen men entered Old College and Moreau Seminary's Candidate Program · 
The Congregation of Holy Cross thanks them for taking this year to consider a lifetime commitment of faith, service, and brotherhood in dedicated service to the Church. 
Prayfor them. Pray for us. Pray that all ofus will have the strength to answer God's call --now and FO~VER. 
Say not "I am too young. " You shall go to whom I send. -Jeremiah 1:7 
For more information on our program for undergraduates at Old College or for graduate students at Moreau Seminary, contact: 
Fr. Jim King, C.S.C. or Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. 


ANSWER~ 
THE CALL~ 
Pat McGowan 
Chicago, IL Moreau Seminary Marquette U '95 

Luke Mclaurin 
South Bend, IN Old College ND '03 

Joe Miller 
South Bend, IN Moreau Seminary IUSB '96, ACE '99 

Chris Nygren 
Mesa,,AZ Old College ND '03 

Andrew Polaniecki 
Chicago, IL Old College. ND '03 

Kevin Sandberg 
Chicago, IL Moreau Seminary ND '88, UC-Berkeley '94 


·--------~--------------~----------....--.......-....--....------, 
Friday, September 17, 1999 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 15 
YOU 
JUST FOUND A DIAMOND IN A MOUNTAIN 
OF ROCKS. 
Looking for a fun and rewarding PART-TIME job? Omnipoint has the perfect position for you! A leader in the wire­less industry, we are currently seeking part-time employees to help us expand our fast growing market. 
PRODUCT SAMPLERS 

10-15 Hours per week (Weekend hours required) $10 per hour PLUS commissions! If you enjoy meeting people -want to gain selling experience -want to learn more about the explosive telecommunications business AND want a FREE PCS Digital Phone, then 
0MNIP0INT wants to speak with you! 
For immediate cons.ideration, fax, e-mail or call today! Fax: 317-34 7-7024. E-mail: bhatcher@omnipoint-pcs.com Ph: 317-347-7100. An EOE, we screen candidates for a drug-free work environment. 
~OMNIPOINT" 
WHERE PROMISING FUTURES ARE TAKING SHAPE. 
www.omnipoint.com 

-
got news? 1-5323. 


f';
i
' 
' 
-, 
," ,, -­
fu rthe1 

Come Meet Us September 22nd! Industry Day 
10:00 a.m. -4:00 p.m. 
Bring your resume! 

Judge releases Cisneros' ex-lover 
Associated Press 
LUBBOCK, Texas 
The former lover of ex­Housing Secretary Henry Cisneros has been freed a week after Cisneros was fined but given no jail time for lying to the FBI about payments to her. 
Linda Jones was released Thursday. Her 3 1/2-year sen­tence was reduced to time served -nearly 18 months ­for her coop­laundering for, among other things, lying about the payments and concealing evidence. 
She was freed Thursday in Washington. where she had been under the custody of Independent Counsel David Barrett, one of her lawyers said. Authorities would not say where she was held, but said it was not in prison. 
"I am relieved that she is going to get out and be reunited with 
her family," 
said attorney

eration in the 
"/ am relieved that she is Sam Ogan.
Cisneros case, 
"She had got­

going to get out and be
according to 
ten such a 

court docu­reunited with her family." high sentence 
ments filed in 
that I'm glad

federal court 
this episode is

Sam Ogan 
in Lubbock. 
finally over." 

Jones, 50, Jones' lawyer 
was to be the star witness in the governmont's prosecution of Cisneros. But Cisneros pleaded guilty last week to a single mis­demeanor count of lying to the FBI in a plea deal. The agree­ment, which included a $10,000 fine, called for no prison time or probation. 
Cisneros admitted in court that he falsely told the FBI, while under consideration for a Cabinet post, that he had never paid his ex-mistress more than $2,500 monthly after their affair ended. He gave Jones more than $250,000 between 1989 and 1994. prosecutors said. 
She pleaded guilty in January 1998 to 28 counts involving fraud, conspiracy and money Barrett, who 

has refused to 

talk to reporters since the abrupt end of the Cisneros prosecution, offered no comment. U.S. District Judge Sam Cummings. who had sen­tenced Jones, granted Barrett's motion to release her. 
Cisneros' plea marked a sharp reversal for Barrett, who had indicted the one-time Clinton Cabinet member in 1997 on 18 felony counts of conspiracy, obstruction and lying to the FBI. 
Jones herself ran afoul of the independent counsel after feder­al investigators discovered that she had lied about recordings she secretly made of her phone conversations with Cisneros, misrepresenting the tapes as unaltered originals. 
www.microsoft.com/college/ 

Microsoft· 
www.microsoft.com/college 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dam<. IN 465'i6 . 
EotT0R IN CHIEF Michell.: Krupa 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
M. Shannon Ryan  Davi<l Rogero  
A'>ST. MANAGING EDITOR  
Laura Perelle  

NEWS EDITOR: Tim Logan V1EWPOINT EDITOR: Colleen Gaughen SPORTS EDITOR: Brian Kessler 

SCENE EDlfOR: Michael Vanegas SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Noreen Gillespie PHOTO EDITOR: Kevin D,1lum 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Bryan Luri. 
AD DBIGN MANAGER: Brer H udat SYSTEMS AoMINISTltATOR: Michael Revers WEB ADMINISTllAT0R: Erik Kushto 
CONTROLLER: Timothy lane GRAPI-IKS EDITOR; Jue Mueller 

CONTACT Us 
OFFICE MANAGER/GENERAi, lNF0..............631-7471 FAX...................................................... 631-6927 ADVERTISING....................................631-6900/8840 
observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF................................6~1-4'142 MANAGING Eo1roR/Assr. ME ................... 631-454! BUSINESS OFFICE........................................631-5313 NEWS.......................................................... 631-5323 
observer.obsnews. l@nd.edu 

VIEWPOINT................................................631-5303 observer. viewpoim. l@nd.edu SPORTS.......................................................631-4543 observer.sporrs. l@nd.edu Sca,E.........................................................631-4 540 observer.scene. l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S .............................................631-4324 observer.smc. l@nd.edu 
PHOT0........................................................631-8767 
SYSTEMS/WEB ADMINISTRATORS ................631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
Visit our Web site at http://ob,erver.nd.edu for daily updates of campus news, spans, features and opinion columns, as well as cartoons, reviews and breaking news from the Associated Press. 
SURF TO: 
movies/music for

weather for up-ro-rhe 
weekly student reviews 

minute forecasts 
online features for spe­

advertise for policies 
cial campus coverage 

and rares ofprint ads 
about The Observer

archives 10 search for 
to meet rhe editors and

articles published after 
srafF

Augusr 1999 
POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. Acting as pub­lisher ofThe Observer, the administrarion ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac prohibits the adver­tisement ofalcohol and The Observer:s acceptance of advertisemems from specified types ofgroups. 
The news is reported as accurately and objeaively as possible. Unsigned edirorials represent rhe opinion of the majoriry of the Ediror in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and deparrmenr editors. Commentaries. letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoinr space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through. letters is encouraged. 
Questions regarding Observ" policies should be direct­ed to Ed1ror in ChiefMichelle Kmpn. 

VIEWPOINT 
page 16 OBSERVER Friday, September 17, 1999 
Sweatshops and the Catholic Difference 
Given that the next session of the symposium on sweatshops (Sept. 27) is on Catholic teaching and sweatshops, it is worth looking at least one way in which addressing the issue from a Catholic perspec­tive can make a Todd David difference. Whitmore 
Any effort to come to grips with 
The Common
the reality of 
Good
sweatshops must consider the ques­tions of the work­ing conditions of the laborers and the just remuneration for their work. Creating acceptable working conditions and a living wage, however, will in most cases increase the cost of.produc­tion. Most discussion of this likelihood focuses on whether consumers will continue to buy the product when the additional cost is passed on to them. 
In the case of Notre Dame apparel, for instance, it can fairly be asked whether persons would be willing to pay more money for a sweatshirt. This was the question that William Hoye rightly posed to the audience at the last symposium. How many would be will­ing to pay a dollar more"? five dollars"? ten dollars? Hands went down as the dollar amount went up. 
The problem becomes more complex when, as was pointed out by a member of the audience, the decline in demand due to the pricier sweatshirt may well lead to the laying off of some of the workers. People and institutions who wish to help the workers are therefore stuck with a conundrum: Improving working conditions and raising wages for workers may mean that fewer per­sons actually have work at all. At mini­mum, the decline in demand will rein­force pressures to go back to previous conditions and wages. 

It is at this point that Catholic teach­ing may make a difference. Most eco­nomic theories that seek to include a moral component focus primarily and even exclusively on improving the lot of the least well-off, with reflection on the most well-off generally.limited to the presumption that their gain itself helps the poor. Catholic teaching, however, highlights the gap between rich and poor as a specific moral problem. In "Dives in Misericordia," for instance, Pope John Paul II writes, 'This fact is universally known. The state of inequality between individuals and between nations not only exists; it is increasing. It still happens that side by side with those who are wealthy and living in plenty there exist those living in want, suffering misery ... this is why moral uneasiness is destined to become more acute." 
How might a focus on the rich-poor gap get us out of the conundrum where better conditions and pay leads to fewer jobs? If we assume that the uni­versity in question and the apparel company are both relatively well-off (which is not to say that they are being wasteful), then the way is open to sug­gest that they also, and not just the consumer. should absorb some of the cost involved in improving conditions and wages. Splitting the cost three ways means that less of the increase is passed on to the consumer. More con­sumers buy sweatshirts and more peo­ple work in better conditions with high­er wages. 
In Notre Dame's case, the University receives a percentage of the manufac­turer's profit. Notre Dame could arrange a deal where it agrees to take less of a cut in exchange for the manu­facturer agreeing to have less of a 

! I l"\~OE THE5£. !N ! & LE55 Tl-\~N ONE. ~ 
~ ~
i 1-\0UR. ~ i ~ 
i 

profit margin. One objection would be that the money the University makes from licensing Notre Dame products goes to scholarships. The counter­argument is that whatever is lost could be reallocated from another budget line, perhaps (even though I like our campus very much) landscaping. My sense is that if the income from appar­el were to diminish for whatever rea­son, the University would attempt to find other avenues of funding for the scholarships. The well-being of the workers who make our apparel seems to be about as good a reason as one might imagine. 
When Mr. Hoye asked who would be willing to pay an extra dollar, virtually every hand went up; when he asked who would be willing to pay ten extra dollars. only one hand remained. Sharing whatever cost is involved in improving worker conditions and wages is one way to assure that while the requirements of justice are being met more hands remain in the air and more workers remain on the job. The fact that the University has already allocated significant sums to address from a moral perspective the multitude of issues that surround licensing its products is an indication of its good will. .1f the task force appointed by President Malloy finds that better con­ditions and wages will lead to a decline in jobs, then even more will and resources may be necessary. 
Todd David Whitmore is director of the Program in Catholic Social tradi­tion and associate professor of theolo­gy. His column appears every other Friday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Economics is an entire scientific discipline ofnot knowing what you 're talking about." 
P.J. O'Rourke humorist 
:I 

------------~--------~--------------------------------------.-----­
VIEWPOINT 
O
THE 

Friday, September J 7, 1999 BSERVER page 17 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Student Government addresses advertising ban 
Hecently, the administration ()f the  the University's so-called "publishing  not the University trusts its student body  Church.  
University of Notre Dame has come to  rights" therefore seems to be an unwar­ to differentiate between the moral  The University of Notre Dame's deci­ 
the conclusion that the Gay and Lesbian  ranted action taken by the Cniversity on  teachings of the Catholic Church and  sion to bar advertisements in The  
Alumni of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's  behalf of The Observer. Purthermore, it  secular beliefs. The University's denial  Observer illustrates a poor decision on  
(GAIA) should not be allowed to adver­ is a blatant example of censorship.  of advertisements by GALA clearly illus­ behalf of the administration. The admin­ 
tise in The Observer. The Uuiversity  The second issue raised by the  trates that the University does not.  istration has failed to fully take into  
offers lwo explanations for this action.  University's position concerns the  The final concern caused by the  account issues of censorship, academic  
First, the administration claims that  nature of academic freedom on thi5  University's action focuses on the defini­ freedom and the beliefs of GALA as an  
the primary beneficiary of advertise­ campus. A university setting dictates  tion of moral teachings of the Catholic  organization.  
ments by GALA is OutreachND, formerly  free thought and explo- Church. The University  Subsequently, the University must  
known as GLND/SMC, a student. organi­ ration of many diverse  claims that GALA does  change its position and allow readers to  
zation whirh was denied recognition by  and challenging issues.  not follow the moral  make informed decisions based upon all  
Notre Dame two years ago. Second. the administration suggests that GALA's belief's are not ronsistent with the moral teachings of the Catholic  It does not, however, dictate an environment of' censorship and lim­ited opinion.  "The University ofNotre Dame's decision to bar advertisements in  teachings of the Catholic Church. However, the letter to The Observer from  the pertinent facts with relation to a potential advertising entity. Without tak­ing this action, a serious precedent is set which questions the very basis of the  
Church. On the surface, these justifica­tions seem plausible. However, upon examination of the position by the University. many serious  The action taken by Notre Dame suggests a vendetta by the University against any  The Obserz,er illustrates a poor decision on behalf of the administration. "  Father Malloy's Office, as cited in the Aug. 27, 1999 edition, states only that there is implied  right of the media to communicate the message it deems appropriate to its audience.  
tlaws are found. First, the bedrock of  and all opinion which  opposition to Catholic  Matthew Mamak  
any media entity is the ability for that  is contrary to the  teachings by GALA. The  ChiefofStaff  
particular organization to define and set  nature of its position.  word "implied" bears  Office ofthe Undergraduate Student Body President  
its own limits concerning the message it  Consequently, this conduct severely  significance because it suggests that the  
will communicate to its audience. The  impedes tho ability of students to exer­ University dues not specifically know  Michael Fierro  
policy set by the administration denies  cise their rights of' academic freedom.  what GALA's positions are. This realiza­ Executive Coordinator ofMulticultural Affuirs  
the ability of The Observer to make its  For example, The Observer provides a  tion suggests that if Notre Dame has  Office of the Undergraduate Student Body President  
own judgments in regards to the content  knowledge of the day-in and day-out  failed to take adequate measures to  
of its newspaper. The administration  tasks and pressures of a full-fledged  investigate the position of GALA, then  Jay M. Smith  
counters this argument with its claim of  newspaper. With that responsibility, the  the University seems to have made a  Executive Coordinator of Public Relations  
publishing rights. Yet, the administra­ students involved should have the right  decision in great haste without all of the  Office of the Undergraduate Student Body President  
tion only holds a 15 percent stake in The  to deem which advertisements will be  important facts. This apparent negli­ 
Observer. This holding hardly consti­ used and how the advertisements will  gence by Notre Dame hardly gives it the  September I6, 1999  
tutes a fiscally-based controlling owner­ affect their audience. The University's  right to deem whether or not GALA is  
ship of The Observer. The exercise of  action raises the question of' whether or  opposed to the teachings of the Catholic  

Community responds to column, offers Davie support 

Brian Churney·s scathing  why don't we just save the  was inadequate. Yes, bet­ 
indictment of Bob Davie in  salaries on coaches and  ter decisions could have  
ycst,~rday's Observer is  . buy insurance'?)  been made. Is that not  
ridiculous and deserves a  Third, do not use hyper­ always the case on this  
reply. Logic was never a  bole as facts. Churney  side of heaven?  
required course at a uni­ states, "Routinely. Bob  I suspect that Mr.  
versity. but perhaps the  Davie fails ... land] "The  Churney is simply a victim  
deans should again  fact remains, though, that  of that numerology that  
encourage its study ­ Bob Davie has brought lit­ led us all to hope that this  
judging by Mr. Churney's  tle good to the Notre Dame  would be a perfect or  
lack ofit.  program." Well, how about  near-perfect season.  
first, do not argue from  recruiting, just for  Perhaps not, but this team  
the particular to the gen­ starters?  and its coach are "stand  
eral: Poor clock manage­ Mr. Churney also chides  up guys." Don't count  
ment does not equal poor  Davit~ for lack of class. I  them out yet!  
coaching overall.  submit that even if it were  
Second, do not use false  only one thing that Mr.  John E. Moore  
syllogisms. Churney states,  Davie had brought to this  Wilbraham, Mass.  
"If he's a good coach ... he  great university, it would  September 16, 1999  
must ... flnsure victory."  he rlass in coaching.  
Oh! That's easy! (In fact,  Yes, clock management  

Churney first to criticize coaching, last to understand how it works 
I am replying to Brian Churney's ion and ESPN's, was on top of recent criticism of Bob Davie which things by waiting for Purdue's offi­ran in the Observer. As a proud ciating staff to call time out. That alumni and die-hard supporter of the officials neglected to stop the Notre Dame and her proud football clock for approximately 10 more tradition, I must admit that I am seconds does not speak poorly of repulsed by Mr. Churney's state­Davie but rather the officiating of ments. While it is true enough that the Big Ten Conference. Davie has made mistakes in the Mr. Churney, like so many other area of time management -most fair-weather Notre Dame "fans," is notably the LSU safety -footage the first to criticize and the last to shown on ESPN tonight indicates understand the complexities of that Big Ten officiating, not Davie, running a football program. Davie was the primary cause of the can't stop our running backs from Purdue loss. fumbling. He can't do anything 
Mr. Churney criticizes Davie's more than he's done to help a late-fourth-quarter decision to young team adjust to a complex punt, yet doesn't account for the and promising new offense. He fact that Purdue had too many men didn't recruit the players who on the field, which should have "aren't getting motivated" on resulted in an Irish first down. In Saturdays. And he surely can't do all reality, this was the smartest anything about officiating that call Davie could have made. seems smitten with Notre Dame's 
Mr. Chorney bases his criticism decision not to join the Big Ten. on the fact that Notre Dame could I'm sure that Mr. Churney's voice not stop the Purdue offense, which was one of the loudest in the stadi­then begs the question: Why in the um a few years back. chanting world risk coming up short on derogatory statements about Ron fourth down and placing that dan­Powlus and calling for Lou Holtz's gerous offense in great field posi­head during my tenure here. If not, tion -especially when a Purdue sadly he was not the only one. The field goal would place victory out of victories will come, in time, but reach! only if the Notre Dame family 
Were that not enough, he down­allows a dominant squad to matric­plays tho blown fumble call in ulate. which an official 25 yards away However, Mr. Churney, should overturned the decision of his co­people with your viewpoint bring referee, who was four feet from the about Bob Davie's resignation, then play. I hope you apply for the coaching 
Finally, Churney accuses Davie of vacancy. You might discover that letting the clock run down too far you, in all your wisdom, might need after being stopped on the goal a little more time to bring a line. However. the ESPN footage National Champion to South Bend. dearly demonstrates that a Purdue linesman was motioning for a time Anthony Rossmiller out, again in close proximity to an Noire .Dame Class of 1998 official! The Davie staIT, in my opin-September I 6, l 999 
w E 
ceneN D 
O
THE page 18 BSERVER Friday, September 17, 1999 

The Band of the Fighting Irish practices daily for one and a half hours to prepare its music and marching for busy football weekends. Currently in its 154th year, the band h 
TRADITION ~48CHII I 
Americas oldest college marching band and the Irish Gu 
By DAVID FULTON Scene W ricer 
Five hundred students congregate outside the band 
building on a hot and muggy mid-August day. 
The air is thick as mud and the temperature increases by the second. Some students are nervous. Others are used to the routine. 
The apparent leader, drum major Adam Witmer, barks through a megaphone to "line up for the march-out" and the ordeal begins. 
It is 9 a.m. on the first day of tryouts for the Notre Dame Marching Band and the Irish Guard. The nearly 500 can­didates are hopeful, but only 300 will have the honor of playing in the band. Another 50 students compete for the coveted privilege of being named one of five new Irish Guard members who will lead the band into Notre Dame Stadium before every home football game. 
The competition is tough this last week before the beginning of the fall semester. Before the end of the week, some students ,vill not return, · 
directors, but also on the recommendations of their peers in the band. 
"Being in core band is a bit challenging," said senior core band member and bass captain Alex Powell. "You have to teach the freshmen everything and then watch them go through tryouts without being able to help them. Their audition is basically a direct reflection of our teach­ing skills." 
After a two to three hour practice, the band and Guard march back to the band building and break for lunch. Two more sessions follow later in the day, and the daily 
"Being a part ofsomething like this is unbe­lievable ... Knowing thatl'm part ofsome­thing that is over I 54 years old is a real high.,, 
Benny Ciszek senior band member 

routine lasts throughout the five days leading up to the auditions for the band directors on the Monday evening before classes commence. 
"The week of band tryouts was rough," said freshman Brian Vnak. "I don't think I've ever been so sore and tired before in my life, but it was definitely worth it." 
"Tryouts were very diflicult," added senior and new Irish Guard member Mark Urquhart. "I trained over the summer, but the muscles used for the trot and hike step are difficult to target and train. I was really sore after the first couple of days." 
Despite the physical demands of the training, many members of the band and Guard enjoy the challenges they are faced with throughout the week. 
"I had a great time. The other tryouts and the guards­men were really great guys," said senior James Cochran. 
"Tryouts were hard, but I made a lot of friends and I had a good time doing it," added sophomore band mem­ber Sean Lipscomb. 
But for most band and Guard members, the big payoff was becoming a part of more than 200 years of tradition. "I really wanted to be a part 
while others continue their 
of the tradition," said senior 
struggle for the chance to be a guardsmen, Rick Saxen. "It is part of the Band of the a really great way to become Fighting Irish and continue a part of the University." the tradition. The band and the Irish 
"The band and the Irish Guard are as much parts of Guard are the best signs of Notre Dame's tradition as the Notre Dame spirit," said Golden Dome. The band is Luther Snavely, Notre Dame's currently in its 154th year director of bands. "They don't continuing its reign as the receive scholarships. The oldest college marching band grade they receive is virtually in existence. It has performed meaningless, but they still at every home football game make sacrifices and work very since the inaugural game hard to virtually make other against Michigan in 1887. peoples' events a success." Football games are not the 
Being in the band or the only time the band performs. Guard certainly requires a lot In 1871, the band played a of hard work. During the week concert to benefit those of tryouts, days start at 9 a.m. affected by the Chicago Fire. with a march-out from the Since the Civil War, the band band building through North has played at the entrance to Quad to Stepan Field. There, the campus -"the circle" ­the hand and Guard break up for students leaving to fight in to concentrate on training all wars. It also had the honor of candidates for the upcoming playing in front of presidents 
football season. and popes. 
There are typically 75 The band usually plays at "instructional" squads with between 60 and 70 public core band members teaching performances per school the steps and music to new year, not including its perfor­and returning musicians. The mances at the football games. 
core squad is an elite group "Heing a part of something made up of 68 juniors and like this is unbelievable," said seniors who were chosen not senior saxophone pl ayeronly by the drum major, JOE STARK/The Observer Benny Ciszek. "Knowing that 
Snavely and the other band Members of the saxophone section play for the crowd at the Kansas game. I'm a part of something that is 
-
w E 
ceneN D 
O
THE Friday, September 17, 1999 BSERVER page 19 

MARY CAL.ASHfThe Observer 

played at every home game since Notre Dame's first contest against Michigan in 1887. 

TO MIW i4ILLIMMIUJ4 
d drip with Notre Dame spirit on and off football field. ,,. . 
over 154 years old is a real high." 
The Irish Guard was established in 1949 when H. Lee Hope, director of bands, wanted to add color to the band without taking away from its dignity. The Guard soon became a sort of protector of band members. 
"An Indiana State Law makes it illegal to impede the progress of a marching band," said senior Guard captain Paul Balthrop. "The Irish Guard makes sure that no one gets in the way of the band and also adds a bit of flash to the band." 
When the Guard was formed, its members played bag­pipes, however that element was discontinued in 1954. 
In 1966, then director of bands Hobert O'Brien designed a plaid especially for the Guard uniform. In 1969, O'Brien's drawings were given to Frank Amussen who finished them and submitted them to the Court of the Lord Lyon in Edinburgh, Scotland, on March 11, 1970. There the design was evaluated by the Tartan Advisory Committee to determine whether or not it was associated with any clan in Scotland. The design has been trade­marked and copyrighted by the University, which pro­hibits anyone who is not a 
because they perform as one massive body. One person out of synch can cause a domino effect and throw off an entire performance. This kind of dependence on one another, in addition to the large amount of time spent together during the five practices per week and football weekends, promotes a genuine camaraderie. 
On home football weekends the band and Guard per­form at the Pep Rally on Friday night. Early Saturday morning all the band and Guard members meet at the band building for the traditional breakfast of Captain Crunch cereal before marching out to awaken students 
"Being in the tunnel and hearing all ofthe fans cheering. the announcers voice intro­ducing us and then taking the field is an unbelievable feeling." 
Jeff Mueller junior band member 

across campus and begin the pre-game excitement. 
Their ultimate destination is Loftus for a brief practice followed by brunch at the dining hall. After brunch, all band and Guard members change into their uniforms and meet in the Band Building for a group prayer led by Assistant Director Father George Wiskirchen. Members then meet on the steps of Bond Hall for the traditional concert at noon where the band and Guard perform their halftime music and all of Notre Dame's school songs. 
Inspectors then check all members before finally marching out to the stadium 45 minutes before kick-off. Once inside the stadium, the band and Guard line up at the sides of the tunnel at the request of the football coach­es. Thus the opposing team must walk past staring band members and the 6'2"+, stone-faced Irish Guardsmen ­an intimidating experience. 
After the opposing team exits the field, the band mem­bers line up behind the Irish Guard and prepare to take the field. 
"Marching out onto the field is the best part," said junior band member Jeff Mueller. "Being in the tunnel 
..,
and hearing all of the fans 

member of the Guard from 
cheering, the announcer's wearing it. voice introducing us and then 
Each of the colors in the taking the field is an unbeliev­plaid is signifies one aspect of able feeling." the Notre Dame tradition: Then the real show begins. Green symbolizes the The band storms the field blar­Fighting Irish; blue and gold, ing "Hike, Notre Dame," send­Notre Dame's colors; red, the ing an electrifying jolt through Church and the Holy Cross the packed 80,000-seat stadi­Fathers; and black outlines um. The band and Guard the design. regroup on the field to perform 
The uniforms the Guard their pre-game show, which wears are a bit more compli­involves spelling out "J-R-1-S­catod than some might think. II" and playing "America, the Even dunning the kilt, Beautiful" and "The Star­sporran belt and shako hat Spangled Banner." aro prescribed. Each The show committee, con­Guardsman is given a manual sisting of band members, drum providing instructions on how majors, graduate assistants, to assemble the uniform in and directors. choose and the proprr order and advis­design the programs per­ing, "It is important that each formed by the band week after member of the Guard assist week. During the game the one another in dressing." band and Guard sit together in "Tim guard members have a the northeast corner of the sta­really special relationship," dium until their halftime show said Balthrop. "You sham this and postgame performance great experience with these after the game. guys and it forms a strong Despite the grueling week of bond." tryoutc; and the daily practices 
But the bond extends during the week, the members among Guardsmen alone. of the Notre Dame Marching 
The band and Guard mem­Band and the Irish Guard feel bers have share close rela­it's all worth it. tionships with one another, "All the hard work pays off, especially among their partic-JOE STARKfThe Observer just to be a part of this great 
ular sections. This is mainly The Irish Guard leads the band onto the field for Its pre-game show. tradition," said Urquhart. 

page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, September 17, 1999 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 

Rodriguez's slam lifts Seattle past Tampa Bay 
Associated Press 
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. 
Alex Rodriguez hit his third grand slam of the season in the eighth inning and the Seattle Mariners beat the Tampa Bay Devil Rays 5-3 Thursday night. 
Rodriguez broke out of a 3­for-33 slump with his sixth career slam, a shot to center field off reliever Esteban Yan (3-4). 
Rodriguez's 38th homer put Seattle ahead 4-2 and gave him 103 RBIs. It's the third time he has topped 100 RBIs. 
Freddy Garcia (15-8) allowed two runs and four hits in seven innings. He struck out eight and walked three. 
Jose Mesa tied the Mariners' single-season save record of 33, set by Mike Schooler in 1989, in getting the final six outs. 
Devil Rays starter Ryan Rupe gave two runs and four hits over 7 1-3 innings. The rookie struck out seven and walked two, and had retired 11 straight batters entering the eighth. 
Tampa Bay's Terrell Lowery snapped a scoreless tie with an RBI single during a two-run seventh. David Lamb added a run-scoring triple. 
Rupe departed with one out and two runners on in the eighth. Pinch-hitter Jay Buhner drew a walk off Yan to load the bases and Rodriguez followed with the Mariners' 10th slam of the season. 
Raul Ibanez added a solo shot in the ninth off Yan. 
Yankees 9. Indians 5 

Jacobs Field has never scared the Yankees, whose four-game stop this weekend is their only visit of the regular season. 
Hideki Irabu pitched seven strong innings and Paul O'Neill and pinch-hitter Chili Davis each had two RBIs Thursday night, leading New York to a win over the Cleveland Indians. 
lrabu (11-6) allowed five hits, walked two and struck out eight. The right-hander won for the first time since Aug. 20 and improved to 4-1 in five career starts against Cleveland. . O'Neill homered for the Yankees, who are 19-8 at the Jake since it opened in 1994. 
Dave Burba (14-8) had won his last five starts, but was done in by clutch Yankee hit­ting and bad Cleveland fielding. 
The Indians, who have lost four of five, made three errors behind Burba and four overall. They got two-run homers from Jim Thome and Sandy Alomar, but once again had a costly injury as second baseman Roberto Alomar left in the first inning with a bruised left wrist. 
The Yankees snapped a 2-2 tie in the sixth, scoring three times off Burba, who struck out 10 in six innings but dropped to 0-5 in five career starts vs. New York. 
Jorge Posada's single brought in the go-ahead run and Davis, batting for Luis Sojo, drove in two more with a double off the wall in left. 
Banged up by injuries all year and only now starting to get their regulars back. the Indians began the game with their strongest starting lineup since late April. 
It stayed intact for exactly three outs. 
Roberto Alomar had to leave the game in the bottom first after bruising his left wrist while fielding a throw from left field in the top of the inning. 
The Indians said no X-rays were planned and that Alomar was day-to-day. 
Alomar's injury came after third baseman Travis Fryman misplayed Derek Jeter's grounder, and David Justice bobbled the ball in left, allow­ing Jeter to take second . 
O'Neill followed by hitting an 0-1 pitch over the wall in left for his 17th homer, and the 29th allowed by Burba this year. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 1.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit
CLASSIFIEDS 

all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Loving ND-SMC couple wishes to  Dome Designs is Hiring!  FOR SALE  I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME  Not going to OK game?  
adopt. Will provide a lifetime of  We are currently looking for skilled  N.D. FOOTBALL TIX  GAMES.2726551  Need Student Sec GA  
NOTICES  laughter,love,devotion and opportu­nities.  web designers al"ld web graphic artists.  CALL 271-9412  BUYING and SELLING ND FOOT­ 247-1949  
SKYDIVE!!  800-484-4699 code 0019  Openings immediately! Go to  FREE TRIAL OF A BRAND NEW  BALL TICKETS.  2 ND V. ASU tix 4 sale. $150/best.  
Try the ULTIMATE RUSH  http://www.nd.edu/~ddesigns now  TECHNOLOGY 30 MIN LONG DIS­ GAEAT PRICES. CALL 289-8048  Call before 9pm 287-7167.  
Training students for over 30  FREE TRIPS AND CASH!!!  TANCE CALLS FREE SEND SASE  
years  SPRING BREAK 2000  I'm wanting a tandem bike real bad!  TO G MARKS PO BOX 920528  ++++++++++++++++++++++~++++  Need tix for Navy. Buy/trade.  
1 hour North of South Bend  Please, anyone sell one to me!  NEEDHAM,MA. 02492  N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS  Call 251-0001 -Andy.  
Cati for class times  StudentCity.com is looking for  Also need a partner!  BUY/SELL/TRADE  
GREAT LAKES SKYDIVERS  Highly Motivated Students to pro­ Someone named  Bike Huffy 24" 18 gear  ALL GAMES  FOR SALE:  
1 -800-351 -6617  mote Spring Break 200QI  Daisy preferred.  only 6 mo. old $60  ALL LOCATIONS  MSUTIX  
Organize a small group and travel  246-0719 after 7pm  GREAT PRICES  271-9330  
CAR WASH!! Sunday, Sept. 19th  FREE!ITop campus reps can earn a Free Trip & over  FOR RENT  LAKEFRONT BY OWNER, 3 bdrm.  271,9330 !!NO STUDENT TICKETS!!  NEED: Oklahoma tickets for family.  
1 0am-3pm at the  $10,000!Choose Cancun,  ranch, lg den, 2 car gar., full base­ TICKETMART INC.  x2795-John  
Alumni/Senior Club  Jamaica or Nassau!  ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE  ment, 3 seas. porch, deck, most ev.  www.ndtickets.com  
Sponsored by Class of 2002  Book Trips On-Line.  HOME FOR  new, much more. 15 mi. from cam­ +++++++++++++++++++++++++++  
Log In and win FREE stuff. Sign Up Now On Line!  ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  pus. 616-663-6308.  BUYING  PERSONAL  
LOST AND FOUND  www.StudentCity.com or  243-0658.  GA FOOTBALL TICKETS  
800/293-1443  BUY A NEW PENTIUM II 450  ALL HOME GAMES .........  CAR WASH!!  
LOST·  THAT PRETTY PLACE.  MHZ HP COMPUTER FOR A  277-1659  Sunday, Sept. 19th  
Bed and Breakfast Inn has space  GREAT PRICE CALL ERIC@  1 oam-3pm at the  
ND WALLET & KEYS ON TUES·  EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES  available for football/parent wknds.  4-1882  FOR SALE  Alumni/Senior Club  
DAY, 9/7. IF FOUND. PLEASE  10 minutes from campus  5 Rooms with private baths, $80­ ND. FOOTBALL TICKETS  Sponsored by Class of 2002  
CALL ANALISSA  KNOLLWOOD COUNTRY CLUB  $115, Middlebury, 30 miles from  95 Ford Taurus GL loaded Nice  CALL 271-9412  
4-4096.  Presently has the following  campus. Toll Road Exit #107, 1­ car,excellent condition  
positions available.All positions  800-418-9487.  109,000 highway milage  WILL TRADE 2 NAVY OR use  GRANDMOTHER WILL BABYSIT  
FOUND: WATERMAN BALL  offer part-time/full-time,AM­ $4500  GA's FOR 2 BC  IN HER HOME.  
POINT PEN  PM/Weekday &  LOADED  Tel 289-7770  812-339-8628  233-2704  
BY SAINT MARY'S LAKE.  weekend shills.  6 Bedrm '00-01 yr.  
CALL LORA  LOCKER ROOM ATTENDANTS·  273-0482 / 234-3831  ARA PARSEGHIAN CHARITY  SPRING BREAK 2000  We are definitely rockin' sports  
631-6967.  M-F/4:45am-9:15am & Sat/5:45  SALE & AUCTION  "THE MILLENIUM"  
am-12:15 pm & 11 :45am to 6:15pm  House for rent. Five bedrooms,  A NEW DECADE ... NCE IN TRAV­ Sorry to all my friends who I haven't  
Can't find my tandem bike any­ Sun/7:45am to 1:1 Spm and  two bathrooms, beautiful condi­ Oct. 15 • 9 am -9 pm  EL.FREE TRIPS,FREE  seen (literally) in five days. We  
where! Where's my partner too?  12:45pm to 6: 15pm.  tion,$1500/mo.  Logan Center  MEALS!JAMAICA, CANCUN, FLOR!  must have fun al the backer,  
Call Bill at 675-0776.  1235 N. Eddy  DA.BARBADOS.BAHAMAS.SIGN  backer. Rockin' sorority  
BABYSITTERS-Sat/3:45pm to  UP BY NOV. 5 FOR 2 FREE TRIPS  
9: 15pm Sun/10:45am to  House for rent. 8 bedrooms, two  Benefitting Ara's Foundation & The  AND FREE MEALS!  I am lonely. Anyone want to go for a  
WANTED  6: 15pm.Must be 18 yrs. of age and  bathrooms, completely renovated.  Logan Center.  1800-426-7710  ride on, say, a tandem bike?  
CPR cMified.  Call Bill at 675-0776.  Call Lawrence for more info, raffle  WWW.SUNSPLASHTOURS.COM  
tickets, & list of autograph guests.  I'm lazy, give me a ride on the bike  
STUDENT OPENINGS  HEAL TH & FITNESS SPECIALIST­ BED 'N BREAKFAST  219-257-0039.  -then marry me!  
5-30 hrs./week. Flex. around  Must be PE (K-12),Recreation or  REGISTRY  BIG IRISH CATHOLIC  
classes.  Exercise Science or related  219-291-7153  FOR SALE!  FAMILY!NEED 16 G.A. TIX FOR  Why do I think this is so funny? It's  
Scholarships avail.  major.Jr or Sr level preferred.M•  10-Sp. Bike $50  USC GAME!CALL DAVE @ 773­ really not?  
www.warkforstudents.com/lN  F/4:45am to 9:15am & 4:45pm to  For rent-houses & apartments 299­ Lazy Boy Recliner $50  281-7690 OR 610-971-2295 __  
282-2357  10:15pm.Sat/5:45am to 12:15pm &  4928.  Red/Black L-Shape Sola $25  WITH ANY TIX.THANKS.  budget: pepper bad for gootblatt.  
11:45 am to 6:15pm.Sun/7:45am to  Call 247-9367  
Spring Break '00  1 :15pm and 12:45pm to 6:15pm.  AVAILABLE 2000-01  Need tix for Oklahoma, Arizona  salt: that's a really old joke that's  
Cancun.Mazatlan or Jamaica  Competitive wages and a pleasant  4-6 Studenl Rental. Large rooms,  Washer&Dryer. Apartment­ State.  not too funny anymore.  
From $399  working environment.Applications  reasonable, awesome bonus room!!  sized, stacking w/ Frame.  Call Michelle, 233-9037or 631 •  
Reps wanted1 Sell 15 and travel  may be obtained or resumes sent to  Details. Dave 291-2209.  Hooks into sink faucet. Great  4542.  LP ­your act is up! They caught  
free!  Knollwood Country Club, 16633  condition. $500/obo  you and your "groceries" you filthy  
LOWEST PRICES GUARAN­ Baywood Ln.,Granger,IN 46530 or  3-bdrm duplex, remodeled, 503  631-6101.  Needed: 3 tix for BC.  liar!  
TEED!!!  fax 219-271-4820.For directions or  Eddy, 1 mi. from campus.  Call Mike 4-3584.  
lnfo:Call 1-800-446-8355  additional information,please call  Appliances, W/D.  Looking for tandem bike and part­ I have plans to change this place!  
www.sunbreaks.com  219-271-1541 ext. 3031. EOE  273-8332.  ner. I'm lonely. Call Daisy.  Need one Oklahoma Ticket.  From small potatoes to the gold  
Afterall, I look sweet upon a seat of  x4017-Chris  mine, baby!  
DON'T WORK THIS SCHOOL  5 bedroom house prime location  a bicycle built for two.  
YEAR! $1200 TO $2000 THIS  COACH:Need Jr. High boys soccer  105 Marquette Ave Available now  Need MSU tix  WOF rocked last night! When  
MONTH. Part time 4 to 6 hours per  coach  232-6964  1-800-257-3244 ex12615 Ted  Gertrude worn N'Sync tix from the  
week. Call 24 hrs (219) 239-6709  responsible,dependable,student or grad to coach 7-8th grade soccer B­ I'll rent tandem bike to caring, care­ TICKETS  I need 2-4 ND 'IS. ASU tickets! GA  inside of the Depends box ­oh, that was a good one!  
- Help wanted at 4 Michiana loca­ team.Soccer Sepl-Oct;for south side elementary school,!ocated  ful person who will love it. Costs negotiable.  I need 2-4 Student or GA tix to ND vs. MSU game on Oct. 16. Please  or student tickets. Please call Autumn at 284-5024.  Becky, where you been this week, I  
tions. Great pay, flex. hrs. No  near Scottsdale Mall on Miami  call Autumn at 284-5024!  didn't talk ta you near enough.  
Sundays. Apply in person or send resume to:  Street.Musi be available for prac• tices Mon-Thurs from 2:20­ FOR SALE  Selling 2 MSU GA tix. Call Tim at  FOR SALE ND FOOTBALL TICK­ETS. NAVY $55, ASU $65. CALL  Somebody's looking for an obnox­ 
FRULLATI CAFE/UP MALL  3:15.Game schedule varies with 5-6  634-4853!  289-8048  ious comment here ... Should I give  
6501 N. GRAPE RD. #576  games beginning after school at  Spring Break Specials!Bahamas  it to her... hmm, maybe in a few  
MISHAWAKA, IN 46545  4:00,or 5pm.Paid position.Call 291·  Party Cruise 5 Days $279! Includes  WANTED NOTRE DAME FOOT­ NEED 2 MSU TIX  
4200 to apply.  Meals!  BALL TICKETS  CALL DAN 634-0959  90210 is BACK!!! Dylan living in a  
SPORTS CLUBS & STUDENT  Awesome  271-1526  hotel, Steve playing daddy, could it  
GROUPS­ SOCCER REFEREES-needed for  Beaches,Nightlife!Cancun &  WANTED:MSU;USCTICKETS  really get any better?  
Earn $1000-2000 with easy CIS  south side elementary school,locat­ Jamaica 7 Nights From $399!  SELL & BUY GA FOOTBALL TICK­ CALL:247-1659  
Fund event.No sales required.Fund  ed near Scottsdale Mall on Miami  Florida  ETS  Of course it could, pearl jam could  
Rasier days are filling up, so call  Street.$20.00 per game to qualified  $129!springbreaktravel.com  277-6619  TAILGATER Pass wanted for  play at the peach pit, i bet that  
today. Contact Joe @ 1-888-522­ refs.Call 291-4200  1-800-678-6386  81,C1. or Green Field. Willing to  would make kelly a lot less shy.  
435(}.  WANTED- pay$$$. call 251-0484  
Love animals?  NEW Prepaid Phone Cards!!!  ND football tix.  Now for a reflection on life: the  
Large Physical Therapy Clmic look­ Landlord won't let you have a pet?  $20 ->669 minutes  AM • 232-2378  Have BC GA's call Kev '0644  teenage years are running out.  
ing for part time employees to do  Get your animal fix by volunteering  Call 243-9361, ask for Rob  PM -288-2726  What have they provided?  
loUow up calls. Some filing &  at Pet Refuge. The refuge is looking  Need 2 USC GA's  Memories, awards, acne, addic­ 
inputting required. Flexible evening  for volunteers to help feed and care  FOR SALE  ND football tix tor sale.  will buy or Have 2 BC GA's to  tions, obsessions ... but most of all  
hours. Ask for Gerard Call now  for dogs and cats. Call 256-0886 for  N.D. FOOTBALL TIX  AM -232-2378  trade!!!  the three people i care about most.  
233-5754  more information.  CALL 271-9412  PM -288-2726  please call 4-4523  John, Kelly, and Meg-thanks for  
the memories.  

-

Friday, September 17, 1999 
The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
Got sports news? Call 1-4543 
Service, Leaaersfiiy, Je[[owsfiiy 

COME SEE OUR SPECIAL GUEST SPEAKER!! 
LOU NANNI 
• Executive Assistant to Monk Malloy Former Director ofthe Center for the Homeless in South Bend 
• 
Sunday, September 19th * 7:00 PM * Library Auditorium 

NFL 
Signing Peter pays 
off for New York 
Associated Press 
EAST RUT! !ER FORD, N.J 
Giving Christian Peter a second 
chance is starting to pay big divi­
dends for the New York Giants. 
Not only have the Giants found 
a usable di,fonsive lineman, 
Peter is pushing Hobert Harris 
for his starting left tackle spot. 
Peter had an outstanding 
game filling in for an injured 
Harris last week. The play every­
body noticed was his 38-ya;d 
fumble return for· a touchdown, 
a play on which he bear-hugged 
the ball all the way to the end 
zone. But his play against the 
run was even bett.ir as New 
York limited the Tampa Bay 
Buccaneers to 77 yards in a 17­
13 win. · Peter laughs a lot about the touchdown. He has taken a lot of grief about it from teammates and even his broti1er. Jason, who plays for the Carolina Panthers. After Jason saw Christian rumble down the field with both arms wrapped around the ball on a highlight film, he didn't hes­itate to call him. "He just told me I looked slow­er than I did when I returned the one at Nebraska 95 yards," Christian Peter said. "It was just a very fortunate play. Jessie (Armstead} made an unbeliev­able play and it bounced into my hands. Anybody could have done it." Peter's road to the end zone 
was a lot longer than 38 yards. 
It started more than 2 1/2 
years ago whim the Giants made 
a controversial decision to sign 
Peter as a free agimt. 
A New Jersoy native, he had 
been drafted in the fifth round 
by New England in April 1996. 
Ile was released a few days later 
when the team took some flak 
because of his off-the-field prob­
lems. 
During his college years, Peter 
was arrested for a variety of 
offenses, including a 
third-degree sexual assault. Ile 
also was the defondant in a civil 
suit in which a former 
Nebraska coed alleged Peter 
twice raped her. 
Since joining the Giants in 
January 1997, Pctor participated 
in a rehabilitation program that 
included substance abuse and 
psychological counseling, treat­
rnen t for attfmtion deficit 
disorder and a program to com­
plete his undergraduate degree. 
Entering his third season, Peter's game is improving. After making only two tackles in 1997, he had 32 last year along with a sack and forced fumble. 

"It's not easy, sitting out a year. Talk to anyone who did that," Peter said Thursday after the Giants finished practice for Sunday's game against the Washington Redskins. "Just get­ting back into the swing of things is never easy. I think I am doing all right, but there is so much room for improvement." 
7th Annual Emil:~ilfl6fJ~ rute (Did your Dad or fyiom have him?) 

"GLOBAL HEALTH: FROM ABIJAN TO ATLANTA, FROM NEPAL TO NOTRE DAME--­CLOSING THE GAPS IN THE YEAR 2000" 
Michael B. Heisler, M.D., M.lrl'l-1.. '71 Associate Professor ofMedicine More~.ouse... School'ofMed.i:G!in.e
' ' ' ._. -,-·· __ ., ' ' . . ... )::\f'J~·''"•,",,•• 
Edward P. Sorin Disfiriguisfle<fAlumn:1.:is'Award .1990 
Saturday, September 18, 1999 
10:00 a.m. l l:30a.rn.·(Befote the MlchiganStategame) Cushing Engineering Auditorium 
_.,., 
Friday, September 17, 1999

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS 
NFL 

Riley takes over in San Diego 
A»odated Press 
SAN DIEGO Mike Riley seems almost too good to be true. 
The new coach of the San Diego Chargers does things oth­ers in the NFL won't: he values his players' opinions, lets his star linebacker make cameo appear­ances at tight end and is friendly to everyone. 
He's the anti-Kevin Gilbride. 
And to listen to the players. Riley is precisely the coach need­ed by this floundering franchise, which has lost 31 games in three seasons. 
"What he has done in a short amount of time is gain the respect of men in this locker room, and we haven't even played a game yet/ said Junior Seau, the All-Pro linebacker­part-time tight end. 
That first game comes Sunday when the Chargers, idle on opening weekend. visit Cincinnati. It's also the NFL debut for Riley, 46, who helped lead Oregon State -once 
described as "a coach's grave­yard" back toward respectability before becoming San Diego's fourth head coach in as many seasons. 
Riley's temperament certainly matches the city he works in. 
"He's the first coach I've ever had that has been laid-back and relaxed," running back Terrell Fletcher said. "Don't mis­take it that he doesn't have a fiery edge, that he doesn't have a competitive edge, because he does. It's just an exLremely unique blend. particularly in this business." 
"Right now, the guys, we're giving all we have for him. We'll lay out in front of trucks for him ifwe have to." 
Well, maybe they all won't go that far. 
''I'd chase the truck for him, maybe run into it for him," line­backer Lew Bush said. 
"I think he's exactly what the NFL needs," Bush said. ·"We all know that the bottom line is winning, all right? You get a guy in here sometimes who gets so serious and so caught up in, 'Win, win win, drill, drill, drill,' that you lose the fun in it. And he's brought the fun back to the game." 
Riley's personality and open­minded approach is opposite that of the stubborn. dictatorial Gilbride, who lost the players' confidence and was fired after six games last year, with a record of 6-16 .. 
The players appreciate that 
the yelling and belittling have 
gone away, that there's less hit­
ting in practice and that Riley lets the assistants do more coaching. 
"We still work hard," Bush said. "When Sunday comes, I'm not going to forget how to hit." 
Then there's Riley's reputation as a truly nice guy. 
"If you go to heaven and you look around and Mike Riley isn't there, you'll know you're not in heaven," said John Robinson, Riley's former boss at Southern Cal and now coach at UNLV. 

'Tm just not going to have it any other way," Riley said of his disposition. "I like coming to work and I like the good atmosphere." 
Seau wouldn't even have approached Gilbride about play­ing tight end. Riley was receptive because he felt it could only help a team that went 5-11 last year. 
"If somebody's got an idea, 1 always tell guys, 'Hey, you can tell me whatever you want to,' " Riley said. "It doesn't mean we're always going to do it. If they're thinking about stuff, then that's what you want." 
"I really like people to feel ownership in something, and along with that I want them to feel great about coming to work. I don't want them to dread com­ing in the gate over there. 1 didn't want the kids at Oregon State to dread coming into the football facility. I want them to feel excited about it." 
That Riley was willing to leave 
his job as USC's offensive coordi­
BOXING 

Man decides not to fight female 
Associated Press 

BREMERTON, Wash. 
The man slated to fight a woman in a coed boxing match has pulled out, the flght's promoter said. 
But the fight will go on with a different male boxer, 
said  Bob  Jarvis  of  Tom  
O'Malley Promotions.  
Hector  Morales  of  

Vancouver, British Columbia, was to fight Margaret McGregor of Bremerton on Oct. 9. But Morales pulled out, after becoming increasingly uncomfortable with the idea, Jarvis said. 
"He kept talking about all the publicity the fight has received," Jarvis said. "Ile kept saying he couldn't believe how many phone calls he has received, how many newspaper stories have been written and how many broadcast stories have been aired." 
"Frankly, I can't blame him. For a guy making his pro debut, the world spot­light would be a hard thing to deal with, especially from the male point of view." 
Morales' trainer, Loi Chow, also a lightweight boxer, signed a contract agreeing to take Morales' place should he withdraw, Jarvis said. 
The new matchup needs approval from the Washington State Boxing Commission, which gave the go-ahead to the Morales­McGregor bout after consid­ering it for three weeks. 
"She wants this to hap­pen," said McGregor's train­er, Vern Miller, who said he's optimistic the second fight will be approved. Miller said Chow is an equal match for McGregor, who has a 3~0 professional record against women. 

nator to take the Oregon State job for two years says something about him. True, he was going home -his father, Bud, had been an assistant coach there, and Riley was a star high school quarterback in Corvallis. But the only tradition Oregon State had was losing. 
The Beavers were 5-6 last vear, their best record in 2 7 years. They came dose to upset­ting UCLA and did beat rival Oregon, in double overtime. 
~:,-~ 
FOUR FLAGS FARM 
:Bt:d and :Buak( ait 
THE KER:-JERS RED BCD TRAIi. NORTH 
PHONE 
616-471-5711

BUCHA"AN, Ml 49107 
COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CARDINAL O'HARA LECTURE SERIES ON BUSINESS ETHICS F~RMER UNITED STATES SECRETARY OF LABOR FOR 'THE BUSH ADMINISTRATION l\ta jl'gtn --•it ew Amert~can Workforce ·.,,..--:·:• . -.-.-· -... ·:;.-_ ,·::-= __ ·. . -·_0c ·: _­. _1\tr ' 1 \. -~ .,.:\ 1~::>TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21.'AT 7:30 PM . it JORDAN AUDITORIUM, COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION·.:::,, .::w··--'!t,jr· SPONSORED BY f\otre Dame Center for Ethics and ReligiousValues in Business  

........--------'-Ill..,..._____________..,.________ ~------------"11111=-----~ 
Friday, September 17, 1999 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 23 
• 
l 
l 
l. 
Who's #8 on this year's list of Fortune's "1 00 Best Companies to work for in America" 
Deloitte & 
¦

the answer 1 S Touche 
iRDeloitte. & ' Jm h6~t :t~tii'8~~.;,t~tlfii:.iit8 t>h"s,~,c ~trif 
0
7:30 PMiln lurnni,Senipr·Oh,.1b~ Wt JQQ~,:f<>rw~rd ,o. ~.eetint ~9.ij.;;···· ­
;:;;, 1999 Deloitte & To·~~he LLP ;~;;"' Deloitte Consult fog LLC. Deloitte & Touche rider's to Deloitte & Touche LLP, Deloitte Consulting LLC end related entities. 

u zcwaw-
Friday, September 17, I999

page 24 The Observer . SPORTS
r . 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Staley's touchdowns put Cougars on top 
Associated Press 
PROVO. Utah 
Freshman Luke Staley had three touchdowns and Brigham Young's defense was dominant through three quarters as the No. 25 Cougars beat No. 23 Colorado State 34-13 on Thursday night. 
Kevin Feterik threw for two touchdowns in the Mountain West Conference's first game. One went to Staley. Oregon's high school player of the year last season who chose BYU (2­
0. 1-0 MWC) over the likes of Nebraska, UCLA and Washington. 
Staley didn't have glamorous numbers: 14 carries for 65 yards and three catches for 35 vards. But he delivered when ~sked. 
The Cougars showed Colorado State (2-1, 0-1) what it feels like on the losing end of a blowout. The Rams. unranked in the preseason, broke into the Top 25 after a 41-14 victory over then-No. 14 Colorado. 
Colorado State didn't have Kevin McDougal, who rushed for 190 yards against the Buffaloes and 147 before a hamstring injury forced him out of last week's victory over Nevada. 
It probably wouldn't have made a difference against BYU's fierce defense. The Rams hadl 29 yards, including just 15 rushing, through three quarters before scoring two meaningless touchdowns in the fourth. 
Onlv the loss of Butkus Award candidate Rob Morris, who left in the third quarter with an abdominal strain, dampened the Cougars' spirits. 
For the second straight week. Feterik looked composed as he directed the BYU offense. 
Ailer throwing for 501 yards and three Touchdowns against Washington, he was 28-of-37 for 310 yards and no intercep­tions this week. 
·BYU set the tone on the open­ing possession, when Fete:ik led a 79-yard, 15-play dnve 

.. 
capped by Staley's 1-yard run at the 7-minute mark. Feterik scrambled on third­
and-18 for a 9-yard gain to the Rams 19. He was hit as he reached the sideline by Rick Crowell, who was pimalized for a late hit that gave BYU a first down at the 9. 
It got out of reach in the sec­ond quarter. After Staley's 7­yard pass from Feterik gave BYU a 14-0 lead, the Rams couldn't catch a break. 
The Cougars fumbled twice during their third scoring drive, including an apparent turnover near midfield by running back Naufahu Tahi that Colorado State's Terrence Gibson returned inside the BYU 15. 
However, officials ruled Tahi down. 
On the next play, Feterik threw 27 yards to Ben Horton, who fumbled as he was tackled. The ball bounced into the arms of BYU's Chris Hale, who added another 5 yards to make it a first down at the Colorado State 25. 
NBA 

Borrell signs with Super Sonics 
Associated Press 

SEATTLE 
Lazaro Borrell says realiz­ing the dream of signin_g an NBA contract comes with a price. 
"Leaving my family was the most difficult thing," said Borrell. a former Cuban national team player who defected July 17 during the Tournament of the Americas in Puerto Rico. On Thursday, the 6-foot-8 Borrell, 26, signed a two-year contract with the Seattle Super Sonics. 
Additional terms weren't immediately available. 
Borrell, speaking through an interpreter during a news conference, said signing a contract while separated from his parents and three siblings "was very sad, and at the same time it was very exciting." 
Since defecting, Borrell 
worked out for the Houston 
Rockets, New Jersey Nets, 
Portland Trail Blazers and 
Miami Heat. 

"/ wanted more freedom to be able to do what I do best, and that's play the game." 
Lazaro Borrell 
Super Sonics' rookie 
"I wanted more freedom to 
be able to do what I do best, 
and that's play the game," he 
said. 

Borrell's versatility gives 
him a real chance to make 
the Sonics' roster out 9f train­
ing camp, team president 
Wally Walker said. 
"Lazaro has a great feel for 
the game, a tremendous 
amount of ability," Walker 
said. 

Borrell averaged 20.8 
points per game for Ob:as 
Sanitarias in the Argentrna 
Basketball League 
last season. He averaged 21.3 
points and 10.3 rebounds in 
three games for the Cuban 
team in Puerto Rico before 
defecting. 
Walker said he was travel­ing last week when Borrell worked out for Sonics coach­es. 
"This kind of came out of the blue," Walker said. "After seeing him work out, the coaches called me, and after seeing him play today, I can see why .... lie has too much ability for us to pass." 
"He's comfortablfl handling the ball, he's comfortable away from the ball," Billy McKinney, Sonics executive vice president of basketball operations. said. "He's a good passer, he's a good shooter. I could see, once he gets com­fortable with the language, maybe playing some shooting guard, maybe even playing the point guard." 
McKinney said Borrell has a good chance to make the team, but added, "We're going to have a lot of competi­tion for spots. We have some very hungry people here this year who want to play." 

Dear Alumni & Friends, The staff of Campus Ministry extends an invitation to come together and celebrate the Eucharist this weekend. 
Michigan State Football Weekend September 18-19, 1999 

Saturday Vigil Masses Basilica 30 minutes after game Stepan Center .45 minutes after game 
Sunday Masses Basilica 8:00, 10:00 am & 11:45 am Sacred Heart 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 9:30 
& 11:00 am 

(2\MPUS
MINISTRY 
-
-

All Shows Before 6 PM S4.00 $4.00 S1udents/Children/Seniors S6.50 Adult 
Stereo Surround Sound in all Theatres 
American Pie R 
12:55 3: 1 O 5:25 7:40 10:05 
Bowfinger PG-13 
12:55 3:15 5:35 7:55' 10:10' • except Chill Factor R 2:05 4:40 7:15 9:55 
Deep Blue Sea R 
2:00 4:30 7:05 9:40 
For the Love of the Game• PG13 
12:50 3:50 7:00 9:55 ss 1:35 4:35 7:40 10:35 ss 
In Too Deep R 
1 :05 3:30 5:50 8:05 10:25 
Mickey Blue Eyes PG-13 
1:00 4:00 7:00 9:30 
Star Wars Eps 1 PG 
1:30 4:15 7:00 9:50 
Stigmata R 
1: 10 3:35 7:05 9:35 S5 2:05 4:45 7:45 1O:15 ss 
Stir of Echoes R 
12:45 3:00 5:15 7:35 10:10 
The 13th Warrior R 
12:50 3:05 5:30 7:50 10:15 
The Haunting PG-13 
1:00 4:00 7:10 10:00 
T()O~YS fill,~ 0'l1Y FCJ8 CAY ACV~NCE ncm St.HS 
hl.NOIC.\P ACCUilBL£ HlO PASlES • 'lO sumS,WlRS 


University of Notre Dame 
Presentation Tuesday, September 21st, 5:30pm 
FIRST University Club, Stadium Room
CREDIT 
www.csfb. com
BOSTON
SUISSE 
..r ­
__,_..__..,_.,,_______ ... 

page 26 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, September 17, 1999 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
San Fransisco clings to playoff hopes 
Associated Press· 
SAN FRANCISCO 
The San Francisco Giants, who trail Arizona by seven games with 16 left to play, refuse to believe the race in the NL West is over. 
The Giants won their fiflh straight Thursday, defeating the Florida Marlins 6-5 to sweep a three-game series, and moved a half-game closer to the idle Diamondbacks. San Francisco has won 22 of its last 29. 
Marvin Benard homered and drove in two runs as the Giants sent Florida to its seventh loss in a row. 
Bronswell Patrick (1-0) got the win in his Giants debut. pitching two scoreless innings of relief. Robb Nen pitched the ninth for his 35th save in 44 chances. 
The Giants took a 6-5 lead in the sixth. The tying run scored on a throwing error by shortstop Dave Berg and the lead run scored when his poor throw prevented the Marlins from turning an inning-ending double play. Brent Mayne got an RBI on the groundout. 
Benard led off the first with his 14th homer for the Giants and added a run-scoring groundout in the fifth. Armando Rios and Bill Mueller had RBI singles. 
Mike Redmond, who had not homered since Ang. 19, 1998. hit a three-run shot for the Marlins in the fourth and Kevin Millar had two HBis with a sac­rifice fly in the first and a homer leading off the sixth. 
Vladimir Nunez (6-9) allowed six runs on eight hits and three. walks in 5 '1-3 innings for the Marlins, who have lost nine straight on the road. 
Giants starter Kirk Rueter allowed five runs on seven hits -including two homers -in five innings. 
Cubs 7, Reds 6 
Sammy Sosa got something 
nearly as elusive as his 60th 
homer -a Chicago Cubs win. 
Sosa doubled off the base of the wall in right-center field in his final at-bat Thursday night, driving in two runs in the ninth inning for a victory over the Cincinnati Reds. 
Although Sosa just missed a record-setting homer -he even gave a little hup after it left the bat -he gave the Cubs a break-through win and handed the Reds a heartbreak. 
The Cubs took two of three from the Reds, their first series win since July 21-22. 
It was a costly blown save by Danny Graves t8-7). With the rest of the NL contenders off, the Reds could have gained a half~game. Instead, they slipped to 3 1/2 behind Houston in the NL Central am.I three behind the New York lvlets for the wild card. · 
The Reds gave up Sosa's 59th homer one week ago in Chicago, leaving him one sweet swing away from becoming the first to hit 60 twice. They gave him little to hit throughout the series, but had no choice but to pitch to him with the game on the line in the ninth. 
Sosa was O-for-4 when he came up against Graves with runners on first and second and one out. His drive off the base of the wall scored both runners to put the Cubs up 6-5 and give him a little solace. 
Since hitting No. 59, Sosa has gone 5-for-28 {.214). He has gone 30 plate appearances and six games without a homer, his longest power outage since a six-game streak from July 17­22. 
His last seven-game stretch without a homer was July 5-11. 
Flashbulbs went off in the small crowd every time Sosa came to bat. He missed perhaps his best chance in the seventh, when he faced Dennys Reyes ­the same pitcher who served up Mark McGwire's 60th homer last year. Sosa flied out. 
After Sosa's double put the Cubs ahead in the ninth, Mark Grace followed with a double to make it 7-5. Terry Adams (6-3) pitched the last two innings, preserving only the Cubs' 10th victory in 45 games since Aug. 1. 

,,.. 

rJrRED *RTME 

Now Leasing! 
• 
4 Blocks from Campus 

• 
Large 2-Bedrooms for unde~ $500.00! 

• 
Pre-Leasing for Fall 2000! 



Professionally Managed by Real Estate Management Corp. 
234-9923 

MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Mets' offense gets back on track 
Associated Press 

DENVER 
The Mets were sliding like a car with a driver who had slammed on the brakes too hard.spinning toward a sec­ond straight loss to the Rockies that would send them homP with some unflattering skid marks. 
Their offense had looked sleepy in the last games of this road trip. as if they were weary from playing 13 con­secutive days. 
Their starting pitching had buoyed them through their last two series out West this season. But when that sput­tered today -and the bullpen stalled, too -the Mets were careering toward a· disappointing end to what had been a successful trip. 
The Mets needed saving as much as Benny Agbayani needed to salvage his own season, which he did as the Mets grabbed. a 10-5 victory at Coors Field. 
Agbayani, a part-time out­fielder, who had hit 10 homers in his first 73 at-bats only to wait 160 more at-bats for his next one, hH a two-run homer in the sixth inning to give the Mets a 5-4 lead. After the Rockies tied the score in the seventh, the Mets went ahead in the eighth. 
Darryl Hamilton hit a pinch­hit triple to drive in Robin Ventura to give the Mets a 6­5 lead, and Agbayani hit a sacrifice f1y. That provided all the cushion needed by a shaky John Franco, who loaded the bases in the eighth, and Armando Benitez who got out of that jam until the Mets' offense finally unleashed a week's worth of pent-up hits for the victory. 
"Benny came up with as big a blow as we had on this road trip," said Bobby Valentine, who has known and encour­aged Agbayani since manag­ing him in Class A,\/\ Norfolk in 1996," 
The Mets finishl)d the pun­ishing road trip at 5-2. They remained two and on!l-half games ahead of Cincinnati. which beat the Cubs by 5-4 tonight. in the wil.d-card race. They gained ground on Atlanta, which lost bv 4-1 at San Diego later tonight, and trailed the Braves by only one game in the National League East. 
Despite the late flurry of hits that ballooned the lead. the Mets seemed to drag toward home as if they had blown a tire. Although the Mets scored three runs in the first two innings, their start• ing pitcher, Orel Hershiscr, struggled early. He hung on for six innings he approached the game hoping only to go six innings and give his team a chance to win in a park that is a nightmare for pitchers -and was removed after allowing four runs on six hits and four walks. 
Dennis Cook came in to start the seventh, and Kurt Abbott hit a double down the left-field line that sent chalk flying in the air and Bobby Valentine racing onto the field for a few minutes of heated argument with the umpires. Cook got Larry Walker, the league's leading hitter, to pop up on the first pitch, but then he walked Todd Helton on a 3-1 pitch. 
That brought the right-han­der Turk Wendell from the bullpen to face Vinny Castilla. Entering the game, Castilla was batting .212 against 
. right-handers. Castilla smacked a single to left field that scored Abbott to tie the score at 5-5. But then Agbayani stepped on the accelerator and stead­ied the Mets again. Agbayani was a 30th-round draft pick who had roamed in the netherworld of the minor leagues for six years before having an extraordinary burst after the Mets brought him up from Class AAA. 13ut Agbayani had not hit a home run since June 25. and Wendell had teased him, ask­ing if he would ever get past 11 home runs. After he got his 12th in the sixth inning, Agbayani struck again. Ventura walked and Hamilton, a former Rockie, pinch-hitting for Shawon Dunston, slammed a triple to right field that Walker dived for but missed. As the ball skittered to the wall, Ventura scored to give the Mets the lead andHamilton went to third. Agbayani'ssacrifice fly scored Hamilton to increase the lead to 7~5 and insure the victory for Wendell (5-4), who won his second game of the series. Afterward, the bullpen bowed to Agbayani. "They just said. 'About time,"' he said. Agbayani, called up when the Mets played in Denver earlier this season, hit his first home run came at Coors Field, where is now batting .500, with 2 home runs among 12 hits. 

Castl~'Poir,t
Apartments 
Cleveland and Ironwood Roads/1801 I Cleveland Road/ South Bend, Indiana 46637/ (219)272-8110 
New Castle Point Seleet Units ~i\vailable for Next Semester 
*Within minutes of campus* 

•l'Jewly renovated, spacious~ furnished, or un-furnished apartments •De~ igned specifically for the student 
•Includes me1nbership in the new 
Castle Point Racquet Club and Fitness Center 
-
Friday, September 17, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 27 
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Boston still trails New York in heated pennant race 
Associated Press 
TOHONTO 

What could tlui Hed Sox have lrn,rn thinking while watching the scomhoard in Cleveland the last ('ouple of days'? 
What about the Oakland Athletics -what was going through their minds, as they fol­lowed the Yankees' progress hero'.' 
The Hod Sox must have t'elt good whm1 they saw Toronto's crooknd run totals on the score­board, and watched the Blue Jays build a live-run lead late in Tuesday's gamn, 
Thny might havebeon encour­ag11d when thP. Blue Jays posted an ,rnrly-inning advantago Wndmisday night. 
But how did the Hed Sox and Athletics feel whnn they saw the Yankees rebound to win crazily Tu1!sday, with grand slams in back-to-back innings'! 
They must liavB been shocked again tonight. when they saw the Yankees roar back to beat Toronto, o-4, and take the final two games of this three-game series. 
Later Wednesday night, the Hed Sox beat the Indians, 6-4 in 13 innings, to remain three a.nd a half games behind the Yankees. New York will visit Cleveland for a four-game series beginning Thursday night, so long as Hurricane Floyd per­mits. 
Maybe the teams chasing the Yankees might have figured .it was about time for a Yankee recovery. 
Maybe they thought the dtifending champions would eventually emerge from their late-season fog and begin to play like a team slackHd witll an All-Star lineup, deep starting pitching, and veterans who played through much worse slumps than that which the Yankees have experienced this month. 
Bernie Williams, who silently mulls his hitting slumps as if he were trying to solve a challeng­ing math equation, has appar­entlv found the answers. He han{mered a two-run homer 

IRISH COUNTRY BED &BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
The Preferred Registry 
Stay at the 
Moose Krause House 

or other approved homes for Graduation, Football Weekends, and Special Events 
To reserve: 
Call {219)277-7003 • Fax (219)273-2455 
"We're back on track as far as our confidence is concerned. And they're feeling good about themselves." 
Joe Torre Yankee's manager 
Wednesday night to snap a 4-4 tie; it was Williams who tied Tuesday's game with a grand slam in the eighth inning. 
Andy Pettitte (13-11} recov­ered from one very bad inning and lasted eight innings. 
"We're back on track," Manager .Joe Torre said, "as far as our confidence is concerned. And they're feeling good about themselves," 
Williams said, "This definitely gives us a pretty good boost going into Cleveland." 
The games against the Indians will be the last the Yankees (87­
58) will have against any team playing over .500 during the regular season. The Yankees, whose magic number for clinch­ing the division is 14, play seven games against Tampa Bay in tho final two weeks, three against the Chicago White Sox and three versus Baltimnre. 

Williams spoke before tonight's game of how perhaps Tuesday's comeback would remind the Yankees of how good they could be, and give them something on which to build the rest oftheir season. 
"We're just going to feed off of that and keep it going," Williams said. 
He and the Yankees put his theory to the test immediately. Pettitte. who had needed 
Just 37 pitches in the first threp. innings, became estranged with the strike zone. walked three, gave up a home run to Carlos Delgado and made a bad pitch to Homer Bush; the Blue Jays' second baseman ripped a two-run double and Toronto led, 
4-1. 
Tino Martinez led off the fifth inning, in the Yankees' very first at-bat after Pettitte allowed the four runs. Pat Hentgen, tho Toronto pitcher, tried zipping a fastball past him inside, but did not jam him enough; Martinez stepped into the pitch, twisted his torso and smashed a home run well over the right-field wall. It was a counterattack typ­ical of the Yankees of 1998: if the other team scores, then the Yankees respond immediately. 
And they kept chipping away, aided by the sort of good fortune that seemed det:idcd to them last year. Chili Davis, tlrn designated hitter, checked his swing, but the pitch hit his bat anyway ­and flew over the head of third baseman Tony Fernandez for a double. 
Ricky Ledee then pulled a line drive between the center and right lieldt:irs, the ball skittering along the artificial surface like a flat rock on water. Davis ram­bled home, Ledee pulled into third with a triple. Torre would say later that it was this hit that charged tho inning, for with nobody out, the Yankees were only a run down and Ledee was only 90 feet from scoring the tying run. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Kustok settles lawsuit with NCAA 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
Northwestern quarterback Zachary Kustok, who sued the NCAA to regain his eligi­bi !ity, reached a settlement Thursday that allows him fo play after Sept. 28., according to his lawyers. 
The agreement makes 


1Joes your 
resume. need some 
help? 

WSND -88.9 FM now has both paid and volunteer positions available in the following departments: 
Announcing 
Business 
Promotions 
Students, faculty and staff are encouraged to apply 
Call Rick 4-1670 or Joe 1-4069 for more info. 

Kustok eligible for the Wildcats' remaining seven games, beginning on Oct. 2 against Minnesota. 
Kustok, 20, sued after the NCAA ruled he could not play in Northwestern's first seven games. 
He spent one season at Notre Dame but never got into a game and decided to attend a two-year junior col­lege. 
Kustok claims the NCAA compliance officer at the University of Kansas told him last fall that he would still have three seasons of football eligibility at another Division I-A school if he successfully completed one year at a junior college. 
NCAA spokesman Jim Marchiony did not immediate­ly return a phone call seeking 
comment on the settlement early Thursday evening. Kustok's lawyers said 
.r 

details of the settlement were confidential. 
They were unsure why the NCAA decided to settle but said the decision came quick­ly after Kustok's lead lawyer, Peter Rush, arranged for a deposition of officials at the University of Kansas. 
Al Kustok, Zachary's father, said Thursday that his son was "excited and happy" about the ruling. 
"We felt like this was a very fair offer, and we accepted it" he said. 
Kustok has been practicing with the team as a backup to Wildcats' starting quarter­back Nick Kreinbrink and was at practice when the announcement was made. 
JOIN THE 
INNER-CITY TEACHING CORPS 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING 
Tuesday, September 21st 4:30PM & 7:30PM Center for Social Concerns 
. 
Teach in inner-city Chicago 

. 
After school activities, including coaching 


D Alternative Teacher Certification Program through Northwestern University­( credits toward a Masters in Education) 

w

...---------~---­
~ page 28 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, September 17, 1999 
VOLLEYBALL 

Notre Dame looks to spike Miami of Ohio for victory 
By MATT OLIVA 
Sports W rirer 
The Notre Dame women's vol­leyball team will host Miami of Ohio tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
The Irish enter the game with a 4-2 record, coming off a disap­pointing second-place finish at the Big Orange Bash in Clemson, S.C., and will face the Redhawks for the firsl time since 1991. 
Miami 1s.;;) returns three starters from their 1998 team that advanced to lhe second round of the NCAA tournament. The Irish and the Redhawks have both lost to top-ranked Pacific in three games. 
"They are a strong team," said Irish captain Denise Boylan. "It will be a good competition for us before heading into the Big East." 
Leading lhe Redhawks is last year's Mid-American Player of the Year Alissia Thompson. Thompson averages four kills and 
2.5 digs per game. while outside hitter Mindy Collins is adding more than four kills per game. Andrea Stone has averaged more than one block per game for Miami this year. 
The Irish are led by senior mid­dle blocker and co-captain Mary Leffers, who leads the Irish in kills per game (3.44), hitting percent­age (.371) and blocks per game (1.78). Boylan is leading the team in assists with 12.06 per game. 
Erriily Schiebout and Jo Jameyion both have played well defensively for the Irish. averag­ing 3.5 and 2.6 digs per game, respectively. 

Miami and Notre Dame have faced each other five times, with the Redhawks holding a 3-2 series lead. Notre Dame's two wins came in. 1988 and 1991. 
The Miami match is important for the Irish to get back on track. After starting off the year with impressive matches in the Shamrock Classic and against Louisville, the Irish went 1-1 last weekend and were not satisfied with their performance. 
"This is a big match for us," said Boylan. "We have a good non-conference schedule and need to get back on track before going into conference," 
The Irish have only throe more non-conference matches before their Big East home opener Oct. 1 against West Virginia. 

BOXING 
Tyson to enter ring with Norris 
Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS 
Mike Tyson didn't dodge any question at a news conference Thursday for­mally announcing an Oct. 23 fight against Orlin Norris -and some of his answers were dipped in acid. 
"I feel good, I'm in shape, J'm ready to fight," Tyson said. "I went from 280 pounds -for they had me in the joint for a minute -to 235 pounds." 
Why, someone wanted to know, did he put on weight in jail? 
"Have you ever been incarcerated. sir," Tyson replied. "Go outside, hit somebody with a car, get incarcerated and see how 
fat you  are when you go  
home."  
The  12-round  fight  

against Norris, a former cruiserweight champion, at the MGM Grand will be Tyson's first since he was released May 24 from a Maryland jail after serving 3 1/2 months for assaulting two motorists after a fender-bender. 
The former undisputed heavyweight champion, who also has served three years in Indiana on a rap€. conviction, was asked if he ever thinks about what could have been different in his life. 
"Coulda, shoulda. woul­da," Tyson said. "What should happen is there shouldn't be racism, there shouldn't be dysfunctional alcoholics that are reporters. I keep it real.·• 
Asked if he thought il was fair that he served jail time after pleading no-con­test in Maryland, he replied, "It's politically correct to put me in jail, to send me to prison." 
He, ·added, however, "I have no man to blame but mysBlf. Other people con­tributcd to it, but I have to carry the weight of a fool by myself." 
A smjJjng Tyson, with 
hair on his head but none on his face, actually showed up early for the news conference, signed some autographs and talked to reporters after the conference ended. 
The fight, to be televised on Showtime, is Tyson's first since he knocked out Francois Botha with a right to the jaw in the fifth round Jan. 16 at the MGM Grand. He was behind on all three officials' cards after four rounds. 
That was his 46th win against three losses and his 40th knockout. It also snapped a two-fight losing streak to -Evander Holyfield, including the notorious Bite Fight on June 28, 1997, which led to the revocation of his license for a little more than a year. 
Norris, who turns 34 on Oct. 4, has a 50-5 record. He has scored 27 knock­outs, but craftiness, not power, is his game. 
He was the WBA cruiser­weight champion in 1993­95. 
Asked about the possibil­ity of beating Tyson, Norris said, "People who write newspapers, you know, they all say. "You can't do this, vou can't do that."' 
The odds were 10-1 that Norris can't do it. 
NFL 

Jets lose Testaverde for season 
Associated Press 

HEMPSTEAD , N.Y. 
Things are back to normal here, sort of. As normal as they can be when a team sees its world nearly crumble. 
This was Day 3 without Vinny, Vinny Testaverde, last season's Cinderella quarterback whose season abruptly ended on Sunday. 
Wednesday, Coach Bill Parcells said he warned his team to take it one game at a time. 
"I told them to focus on Buffalo, not the season," Parcells said, "because people will try to make you think the season is over and it's not." 
As the daily news media ses­sion· ended with more gloom and doom questions about the Jets' season and future without Testaverde, Parcells finally said, "Why do I feel I'm at a funeral today?" 
Two scenes from Sunday's loss to New England already set the tone for the Jets' season and may well define it: Testaverde, crumpled on the turf, grabbing his ankle, then being carried from the field. Then, after the game, Keyshawn Johnson, the Jets All-Pro widereceiver, at ·the post-game news conference. As Johnson tried to put the loss of his quarterback and the team leader in perspective, he was overcome with emotion. 
He cursed, pounded his fist on the lectern in frustration and abruptly walked out. It was a dramatic moment that framed a traumatic day. 
HAPPY 21st 
LORI 
Love, Mom, Dad,Chris, Tim, and Jimmy Bettcher 
"/ told them to focus on Buffalo, not the season because people will try to make you think the season is over and it's not." 
Bill Parcells 

Jets' head coach 
My initial reaction to Johnson's outburst was that of being jolted. We are so used to seeing stoicism and clich~s from athletes that hard-edged, emo­tional responses take us by sur­prise. 
Johnson said yesterday that he was consumed by loss: loss of a hard fought game, loss .of a quarterback and, for a moment, what he thought was the loss of a winning season. 
Last Friday, Johnson and Rick Mirer joked across the locker room about the Notre 
Dame-Southern Cal rivalry. Mirer, who played at Notre Dame, had beaten the Trojans three times while Johnson, a star at U.S.C., had never beaten Notre Dame. 
Less than a week later, Mirer holds Johnson's fate in his hands. The Jets acquired Mirer on Aug. 20 in a trade with the Packers. Mirer has attempted 11 passes in the regular season since 1997, and all 11 were against New England on Sunday. Now he will start Sunday against the Bills. 
On Sunday, Johnson lamented how, in Testaverde's absence, the Jets offense stalled and the passing game 11ew out the win­dow. 
He mentioned a couple of costly interceptions, which prompted some to believe he was pointing fingers at Mirer, whose interception on Sunday led to New England's winning field goal. 
Yesterday, Johnson said repeatedly that he was merely expressing the frustration of the 
moment, thal he was as much to blame for the interception as Mirer. 
"We're going to keep on rolling," Johnson said. "Rick is going to get it done." 
For all the handwringing, the fundamental question now is how debilitating is the early season loss of Testaverde? 



purveyors offine wine &food 
122 S. Midi.igan Street • Soutli. 'Bend, I'l{ '11&,(t to t!ie Co[(ege :Jootba{J{a[( of'famc {219} 234-'WI:/lf.£ 
LUNCH • DINNER • CARRY OUT . ~ Satad4 a«d pc:ut'44, 
. ~p~ 
1~ a«d ()~ SeatiH<J, 
'VMtett/ ~ 'luee eUJ41r4 
1H--1(/ed, 1:00 a..lH,, -9:00 fl,,Ht. (/44 __,_ ~) 
7'-I 1:00 a...... -11:00 p-.lH,. '?-rt -Sat 11:00 a..Ht. -1:00 a...... OfteH S~ I 1:00 a..m. -4:00 fl-·"'-· (tJ,t. ~ 

Friday, September 17, l999 The Observer . SPORTS page 29 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Farley looks for revenge against BP in season opener 
By RACHAEL PROTZMAN Spnns Wrircr 
This Sunday will be the chance l'or Farley to get revenge against Bruen-Phillips l'nr eliminating it from the playoffs last year. 
Farley, who endAd the sea­son with a winning record, lost to BP in the second round of µlayoff action while BP ended 
the seasnn  al 7-2 after a  loss  
to  Pasquirnlla East  in  the  
championship game.  

"It's going to b11 a tough garrn~." Farley captain fonnifor Hoss said. ··1.ast year's loss is a molivaling factor for our returning playi~rs." 
Hookie sophomorn quarter­back Megan Sheehan will lead Farley's ol'fnnse. 
"We tbrnw her into the posi­tion and she's really stepping it up," Ross said. 
Farley also will be strong defensively with almost the entire defense n!turning. 
"This game will give us a starting point on what to work on for the rest of the season," Ross said. "Plus no one's lost yet, ,:,o it's going to be a lot of fun. 
BF, however, is without many seniors, but is optimistic about the freshmen turnout. 
"We're excited about the young and inexperienced play­ers. We have good freshmen athletes." BP captain Katie Leicht said. 
Hoturning quarterback Jenny Choi. a fil'th-year senior, vvill lead the strong defense. 
"Defense is definitely our strength. Our big goal is to make it back tu the champi-
Introducing ... 
&s 

--------------3 20 
onships," Leicht said. 
Howard vs. Cavanaugh. 
Cavanaugh finished the sea­son last year at 5-3. While it still has a core of returning juniors and seniors, it does have a young offense. 
"We've had a good defense the past couple years," Cavanaugh captain Melissa Tacey said, "And we're looking to maximize all scoring oppor­tunities with our new offense and still keep our strong defense." 
Howard will be led by returning quarterback, sopho­more Jell Veselik. 
"She did a great job l'or us last year," said captain .Julie Wernick. "And we're antici­pate her to be ovP.n bettP-r this year. 
"We're strong defensively and we'rP focusing on offense a lot too, trying Lo strenthen it," she said. "We're just going io go out a.nd play hard and hope we can come away with a win." 
Pangborn vs. McGlinn 
Pangborn and McGlinn also face each other Sunday. McGlinn ended last year at 2-3 and looks to improve this year. 
"We didn't really lose any­one, only two players, last year so we have a really solid defense," McGlinn captain Jana Poscharski said. "And we have a young enthusiastic offense full of freshmen this year." 
Katie Sullivan, a senior cor­nerb ack, and Jess Cosco, a senior linebacker, are expect­ed to lead the defense. 
"They're the heart of our defense this year," Poscharski 

s ecial Appearance 
Meet authors 
Cyril & Renee Reilly 
Friday 
September 17th 
2:30 -4:30 pm 
Saturday 
September 18th 
11:30 am -1:00 
in the Bookstore 


authors of "An Irish Blessing" will be signing copies of their book. 
Please join us for this event. 
HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: 631-6316 • www.ndbookstore.com 


said. "We are looking to be more competitive this year than in past years. And we hope to do that by playing well 
and kicking the season  off  
right."  
Pangborn  will  look  to  

improve last year's 4-3 record. 
"We have a very young team, defense especially," captain Jillian DePaul said. "We have a lot of speed and basically a new look offensively." 
With no scrimmage and little practice time in, DePaul said, "We are hoping that it'll come together Sunday. It's our first big test." 
All games will take place at McGlinn Fields. Cavanaugh and Howard play at 3 p.m., followed by Farley and BP at 4 
p.m. Pangborn and McGlinn round out the games at 5 p.m. 

t 
. 
•. 
page 30 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, September 17, 1999 
MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 

Red Storm defense plans to wreak havoc on Otters 
By RACHEL BIBER 
Sports Writer 
When Zahm and Sorin face off this Sunday, a batch of new talent will debut. 
The teams are depending on stellar play from new faces as it prepares to start the season in the right direction. 
The Screaming Sorin Otters look to senior Luke Beuerlcin, a first-year play­er, to lead Lheir offense. 
Captain and coach Frnd Faber insists that freshman safety Greg Carney is "one to watch." 
Faber hopes the two weeks of practice will pay off, but insists that it still was not that much. time. and his defense is still learning. 
"Every day we are getting a lot bet­ter," said Faber of his team of 22 play­ers, "And I think we are going to show them we can compete even though we lost a lot of players." 
Zuhm's "Red Swarm" defense hopes to return in full force from last year's 4­2 season. 
"Zahm interhall football is known for its great attack dflfense," said coarah Jerry Fitzpatrick. "And we intend on continuing our tradition." 
Captain Mike Garko and Matt Meyer will lead a relatively new squad boast­ing the talent of freshmen Dan Burke and Gabe Ibanez. 
Zahm's strengths may be discovered on gameday, as Garko says, "The sur­prises are going to be unleashed on Sunday." 
"Our definite strengths are team speed and pride," noted Fitzpatrick. "And we will strive every week to be consistent at executing our game." 
Siegfried vs. Knott 
Going into their matchup against Knott Hall this weekend, Siegfried coach Jamie Bordas has high expectations for his team. 
"We should definitely be one of the teams playing for the title," said Bordas. "And we should have an outstanding season." 
Siegfried is rebounding from a tough first-round playoff loss to Zahm after a 3-1 regular season record from last year. 
Their high hopes ride on a host of experienced players. The defense is led by linebacker Robert Miyakawa and free safety Peter Aguiar, while the offense includes key players in quarter­back Rob Plumby, tailback Travis Smith and fullback Kevin Haley. 

-
Bordas notes the tough running ability of Smith and Haley, and their capability or getting first downs. 
Also expected to make an impact is first-year player Mike Bossen, whose quickness will be a definite asset. 
On Sunday, the Ramblers look to dom­inate the defensive side of the ball and said Bordas "expects to shut pMple down." 
The Juggernaughts of Knott !fall are on a quest to improve on last year's record of 1-2-1 as they enter Sunday's game against Siegfried. The offense hopes to show off the talent of running backs Hramlon Landas, Pat Virtue and f'ullhack Joe Mueller. 
Captain Mario Suarez says the key to a win on Sunday rides on the ability of the team to execute and run their plays correctly. 
"It would be nice if we played over our potential," Suarez said. "New faces to watch include freshmen Jonathan Smith, Looe Baker and Kyle Trotter." 
Suarez is looking to the defense to step it up a notch in the season opener. "We're hoping to attack on defense," said .~uarez, "and keep them on their toes. 


"Need insurance for your wheels?" 



Check out Monday's Observer for more lnterhall coverage. 
Please 

THE MARK OF EXCELLENCE 
recycle The Observer. 

JEFF HSUfThe Observer A Siegfried quarterback works on his passing for the Rambler' Sunday opener against Knott. 

When you stand for excellence you stand alone .•. 
The stand-alone interlocking ND logo is only available on the cam-· pus of Notre Dame. Look for this and many other exclusive items at any of our campus locations. We feature the finest in authentic Notre Dame merchandise. 
After the game, stop by the new Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore in the Eck Center or the Varsity Shop in the Joyce Center. 
Check out our 40 game-day locations or find us on the web at www.ndcatalog.com. 
For catalog informa­tion or to order these items by phone, please call: 800-647-4641. 


Spinach Artichoke Dip or order  
one of our salads like the  Papa Vino's is a great place  
Papa's House Salad. Enjoy  for any occasion! We've  
generous portions of contemporary Italian  got everything from  
entrees and pastas  appetizers to dinner  
like Chicken Scallopini or  specialties and fresh  
Salmone Alla  pasta to a full  
Griglia...or from SizziliniTM to  range of desserts and  
Linguini Pescatore. So if you're looking  specialty coffees.  
for great food with Italian flair,  
come on in to Papa Vino's.  
Mishawaka•  SI 10  Edison  Lakes  Parkway•  219.271.1692  


Friday, September 17, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 31 
.. 

MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Defending champion Keenan looks to hold on to title 
Kefman will bP hard pressed to Assistant coach Nick Costanzo By KEVIN BERCHOU n~1w4t last year's 7-0 mark, as wiJI be relied upon heavily as a Spom Wril<'r they were hit hard by the loss of steady two-way player. 
m1m<'rous graduating seniors. A Morissey looks to provide the 

That cool bre1izn the last couplti talc11Led corps of freshmen, led defending champs with a diliicult of nights 11sunlly signifies thn by quartorback Billy Ellsworth, opening test. Anchored I,y fuur­arrival of' two things: autumn and looks to aid in the rnloading vear stalwart linemen, centl~r intrnfolll foolball, which kicks off effort. lfric Dcpke, and right guard and 
this WH\kPmL · "Wc'rn happy with his mach Matt Wohlbr.rg, the offense Nol surprisingly, 01w11i11g day is progress," said junior assistant will feature a running attack. 
fillnd wit.h many intriguing coach Iler!J Giorgio of Ellsworth. "We'll go with rnure of a matchups. In Blun I.nague piny, "tie's lmc'!l working hard." straight ahead style this year," lwo-li11rn chd'ending champion Senior mi<l<lle-lincl.,acker and said Wohlbcrg. "Last year we 
Knprnu1 looks l.o rPprisP past suc­coach Joe Kopp anchors the tried a lot or technical plays. This ('(!SScs in a gamn against dofensc along with fellow coach year it's morn like strnight foot­Morissny on Sunday at ] p.111. and dofonsive back Dong Min. ball." 
Though the running game will be used often, senior quarter­back Dan Sullivan's 
,...
talents w111 allo,iv for a

cinema@thesnite 
great deal of offensive variation. 
Neither team has relished of favorite. with both captains demonstrating, at Jpast outwardly, a great deal of respect for their opponents. 
"We've heard they're the team to beat," said Keenan captain Herb Giorgio. "We'll see what were made ofright away." 
Morissey captain Matt Wohlbcrg, how­ever, would have none of' that. "They haven't lost in two years. They're obviously the frontrunner," he

starring Ralph Fiennes and Juliette Lewis noted. "We've been providing a stern opening day pointing towards this test. Led by sophomore captain
St. Ed's vs. Fisher 
game ever since we Dean Korolis, Fisher will look to
In Gold League action, St. Ed's
started practice four better last year's 1-2-1 mark.
takes on Fisher on Sunday at 1
Fri. &Sat. 7:00 p.m. and 9:45 p.m. 
weeks ago." Junior quarterback Zack
p.m. in a week one showdown.
presented by ND Film, Television, and Theatre All signs point to an Allen's speed and great field
St. Ed's, the self-described "Bad 
exciting opener, with vision will open up the offense
www.nd.edu/~cothweb News Bears" of interhall football, 
the big question being allowing for plenty of balls to be
will look to improve on last year's
Keenan's ability to tossed in the direction of' junior
0-2 campaign, during which the 


also Alfred Hitchcock's Vertigo Mon. 7p.m. three-peat. 

·welcome Back to Academia! 
Enroll now for a taste of Italy 101. 

For starters, try out our 

wide receiver Steve Dougherty.
team was disbanded due to lack The defense will look to stifle theof participation. 
St. Ed's rushing attack on theSophomore tailback Judson 
strength of sophomore defensivePenton will lead the offensive lineman Dahx Marrs, who pro•attack while fellow second-year vides excellent support up
man, middle linebacker Mike 
the middle.
Garafola, takes charge of' the 
"It'll be a good game," said
defense. 
Korolis. "They should be great
"We're learning real quick," 
competition."
said sophomore coach Nick Let's hope so, students don't
Sciola. "I think we're already bet· 
want to be disappointed when
ter than last year." 
they put homework aside to takeFisher will prove a valid indica• in some interhall action. 
1nr nf St Fri'<; _imnrovriment bv 
-
.s4000 All Shows Before 6 pm • Advance Ticket Sales Available 
All Times for Se tember 17-19 Sat. & Sun Matinees in [Brackets] 
. Blue Streak (PG-13) Digital For Love of the Gaine (PG• 13) Digiwl 
[1:45] 4:20 6:50 9:20 I12:30] 3:30 6:30 9:30 
[2:30] 5:00 7:30 10; 10 I1:001 4:00 7:0ll moo 
Stigmata (R) Digital Runaway Bride (PG) Digital l1:30I 4:30 7: 10 9:40 12:20] 5:20 7:45 10:20 
12:50] 5:25 8:00 I0:25 Bowftnger (PG-13) Digital : Stir of Echooi (R) Digital 13: IO] 5:40 8:20 l 0:35 
[2:45] 5;10 7:40 10:15 Thomas Crown Affair (R) Digital . Chill Factor (R) Digital 11:2014:107;15 9:55 
[2:40] 5: 15 7:50 I0:05 Blair Witch I~ject (R) . Sixth Sense (PG-13) Digital 12:25] 4:45 6:40 9:00 
12: 101 4:40 7:20 9:50 ln~pector Gad~ct (PG) Digital · ·me 13th Warrior (R) Digital [2; 15] 4:50 7:05 [3:00) 5:30 8: 10 10:'.lO Love Stinks (R) 
. Deep Blue Sea (R) Digital 9:IO [3:l5J 5:35 8:05 J0:40 
·-•• ,,_ .....-.-~---...............,....,.. ,_, •¥ ·-· ·--~ ---~ .,.,,,_ __ ..,.,..~ 
ONLY $1 00 All Shows Before 6pm
SCOTTSDALE 6 • Everyone• Everyday Scottsdale Mall " 299-6063 $1,50 All Evening Shows :J 6. 
Eyes Wide Shut (R) The General's Daughter (R) 
[12:50] 3:50 6:50 9:40 [1:20) 4:IO 7:10 9;45 
Tarzan (G) Wild Wild West (PG-13) 
[2:00] 4:20 6;40 8:50 [1:10] 4:30 7:20 9:45 · Notting Hill (PG-13) Big Daddy (PG-13) 
[ l :00] 4:00 7:00 9:50 11 :40] 4:40 7;30 9:35 
page 32 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, September 17, 1999 
-,. 
WOMEN'S GOLF 

Belles take third in match 
By SARAH RYKOWSKI 
?pons Writer 

Last year Saint Mary's home golf tourna­ment was cancelled due to bad weather. 
This year, wind swept through the course but it couldn't force a repeat cancel. At their home tournament this Thursday at Brookwood Golf Course, Saint Mary's golf team struggled a bit, shooting a team score of 379, good enough for third place. 
"We could have played better," head coach Theresa Pekarek said. ''It was windy today and the course played very difficult." 
Other schools were also affected by the weather. Alma College won the match with a team score of 362. while Albion College and Hope College tied for second with sc:ores of 377. Thursday's match put Saint Mary's in third place in the the conference. behind Albion and Alma. 
"All of the scores were a lot higher [this week]," junior Natalie Cook said. · 
Scores at Brookwood this week were up about 50 points compared to the last tour­nament's scores. 
"Everybody struggled today," Pekarek said. "They couldn't get their momentum going." 
Three golfers who contributed to the Belles' score were Kara Harms, who shot a 92; Natalie Cook, with a 93; Heather Podraza, who scored a 96; and Mary Claire Hathaway, who shot a 98. Exhibition golfers for the Belles included captain Kyle Veltri and freshman Rachael Benkert. 
"I was very impressed with freshman Kara Harms,'' Pekarek said. 
"I was thrilled with my score," Harms said. "We had the home course advantage, but the wind and greens were real fast." 
As for next week, the Belles have a good shot at gaining second place. "We are only five shots out of second place overall," Pekarek said. 'Tm looking forward to next weekend," said Harms. 
The golf team has their next tournament on Sept. 25 at Hope College's Winding Creek Golf Course at 1 p.m. 
HorseIDen 
continued from page 36 
began with the famed line, "Outlined against a blue, gray October sky, the Four Horsemen rode again,'; to every newspaper in America. 
Following Rice's story and the team's return to South Bend, Strickler posed the four players in uniform on thf\ backs of four horsf\s. The photo spread across the country and kept the [rish backfield on the lips of every football fan in the coun­try. 
When the Irish arrived in Los Angeles on Dec. 31, 1924, a crowd of thousands greeted Rockne's squad at the train station. The trip to the West coast was perhaps the most highly anticipated road game in 

This picture of the Four Horsemen -Harry Stuhldreher, Jim Crowley, Don Miller 
the history of college football. 

and Elmer Layden -was taken by George Strickler during the 1924 season. 

In the days before national radio broadr,asts and highlights on Sportscenter, people on the West Coast could only read about Notre Dame's foot­ball prowess. The team's first trip to California gave West Coast fans their only chance to see Notre Dame in person. 
In front of a crowd of 60,000, Stan.ford jumped out to a 3-0 first quarter lead aftP.r Murray Cuddleback's 27-yard field goal. 
The Irish got on the board early in the second quarter with its special combina­tion of powerful blocking by the front line -known as the Seven Mules -and elu­sive running by the Four Horsemen. Traveling 46 yards, the Irish drive con­cluded when fullback Layden plunged three yards into the end zone. The extra point failed, however, and the Irish led 6­
3. The Stanford defense was caught completely off-guard by the unique Irish attack. 
"Every play was something new and the combination of deceptive shift, hidden ball, effective interference and magnifi­cent individual running was something that probably no team in the country could have solved at first sight,"Bill Henry said to the Los Angeles Times. 
Stanford effectively stopped the Notre Dame offense after that first drive ­holding the Irish offense to just 140 yards · for the rest of the game. While the [rish offense might have been held in check, Layden dominated the Indians all after-
his juggling of the line up after the game. 
"We played with that just a little bit because Kelly was hurt," he said. "We thought maybe would need Jen Grubb's experience in the backfield. In order to do that and get the depth we wanted in the midfield, we moved Nancy to midfield. It really looked good and we were pleased with that." 
Pruzinsky and Mikacenic will have two more opportuni­ties this weekend to please Waldrum with their play as the Irish take on the No. 8 Aggies of Texas A&M and the Southern Methodist Mustangs in Houston, Texas this week­end .. 
Kickoff is tonight at 4 p.m. against Texas A&M and Sunday at noon against SMU. 
BOOK SEARCH 
• 
Used, rare and out-of-print books 

• 
Initial cost of $:Z.00 

• 
Nationafly • circulated ad 

• 
Success rate of 50% 

• 
Time Required: 2 months 


ERASMUS BOOKS 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 
Despite their 13-3 half­time lead, the Irish came into the locker room tired and hurting from the pounding of the bigger, more physical Indians. Quarterback Struhldreher broke his ankle in the first quarter but continued to play. Rockne was con­cerned with his team's ability to hang with Stanford in the second half. 
_"I was quite worried between halves as my men seemed all tuckered out,''he told the Los Angeles Times after the game. "And they frankly told me that they didn't think they could last the second half" 
Although battered and bruised like the rest of the team, Layden kept up his spec­tacular play. In the third quarter, he boomed a punt to the Stanford 20-yard line. The punt return was fumbled and Ed Hunsinger picked up the loose ball and returned it for a touchdown and a 
Soccer 
continued from page 36 

-
For Mikacenic, the switch to defense after playing midfield and forward in high school 
was a challenge. 
"M·oving to defense was a 
big adjustment for me," she 
said. 
The adjustment to college game became even more challenging for both of them when junior captain and defensive leader Kelly Lindsey went down with a knee injury against·North Carolina. 
"I think having Kelly gone was a big loss," Mikacenic said. "She is so talented and she is such a leader." 
Lindsey was critical to orga­nizing the defense, according to Pruzinsky. 

.... 10 "She was so important to our organization and helping us know where to be," she said. With Lindsey's injury, Jen Grubb moved back to defense to fill hflr spot. In the past two games, however, junior Anne Makinen has been training with the Finnish national team and has not been in the Irish starting line up. ln Makinen's absence, Mikacenic moved back to her more natural position of mid­field for the Butler game. Her goal and three shots proved that she did not lose her scor­ing touch on the back line. Waldrum was pleased with 
noon. Ile stung Stanford for the second time five minutes after his first touch­down. 
The Indians had driven into Irish terri­tory when fullback Ernie Nevers got the ball and pulled up to pass. Layden stepped in front of the pass at the 22­yard line and returned the errant throw 78 yards for another Irish touchdown. 


commanding 20-3 Irish lead. Stanford made one last stab at a comeback late in the third quarter. Nevers stopped an Irish drive at the Indian 20-vard line with an interception and return~d the ball to mid­field. Led by Nevers' powerful running, Stanford moved the ball to the Notre Dame 7-yard line. Stanford quarterback Ed Walker hit Ted Shipkey for a, 7-yard 
..Every play was some­thing new and the combination ... was something that probably no tam in the counrty could have solved at first sight. 
Bill Henry Los Angeles Times reporter 
touchdown and cut the Notre Dame lead to 20-10. Stanford threatened to cut into Notre Dame further when it drove within eight inches of the Irish goal line. But in the shadow of its own goalpost, the Irish defense dug in and stopped Nevers short of the goal 
line on fourth down. 
Finally, Layden finished off Stanford with 30 seconds remaining in the game. Nevers again dropped back to pass and once again Layden stepped in front of the intended receiver and returned the ball 70 yards for a touchdown. Despite gain­ing only seven first downs compared to Stanford's 17, Notre Dame left the West coast with its first national title and hailed as the first true "national"champi­on. 

Friday, September 17, 1999 The Observer . SPORTS page 33 
MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Dillon, Aluillni to square off in intense interhall rivalry 

By JASON KROMPINGER 
Sporrs Writer 
The Steelers and the Browns. The Jets and Patriots. Notre Dame and Michigan. Alumni and Dillun. Epic rivalries have started early this year. 
This Sunday on Stepan Field, the Alumni Interhall football tl1am takes on Dillon ·s team in one o/' the many established hall rivalries on campus. The two teams will be fueled by that extra bit uf adrenaline that comes from facing an archenemy. The game looks to be a one full of old fa':ih­ioned smash-mouth football. 
"Whoever loses this game has to hear about it from the other guys the rest of the year," said A.!umni captain Pat Paquette. 
Dillon coach Jason Visner says that 'his team looks strong. young. and talented this year. Leading the team is junior line­man Joe Parker, anchoring the trenches. keeping defenders off sophomore quarterback Colin Conway. and blasting open holes for junior running back Rob Hidenouer. Hidenouer also will see action on the other side of the ball at cornerback, in a defensive backfield featuring standout senior defensive back Hon Sutsko. 
The team also features six 


• 
Fresh Flowers, Plants 

• 
Balloon Bouquets 

• 
Birthday Cakes, Candy 

• 
Gift Baskets: Gourmet, Fruit, Goodie, Finals, Get Well 

• 
Stuffed Animals & More



• Satisfaction Guaranteed 
703 W. McKinley Ave. • Mishawaka, IN 46545 219-255-4000 1-800-365-6184 
C.4BW4IH 

Sunday, September 19th 10:00am -3:00pm @ the ALUMNI/SENIOR CLUB 
SPONSORED BY THE CLASS OF 2002 
freshmen this year, with one lineman and the others al skill positions. Visner says that his team will most likely be running a split-back set and focus on the running game, emphasizing a "here it comes try to stop it" approach. The team's defense will be running an even front, with four down linemen. 
As for ·Paquettc's Alumni squad, the emphasis for the game is pride. Paquette, a junior, plays outside linebacker in Alumni's 4-4 defense. Joining him on defense will be senior defensive end Hyan Jochum and junior inside linebacker Mitch Karam. Both players will be playing old school ironman foot­ball as they are each offensive tackles. 
On the offensive side of the ball, this year Alumni will be fea­turing a two-quarterback rota­tion and a single-back "l" forma­tion. Sophomores Matt Anton Giovanni and Nick Altoss will be splitting time at the helm. According to Paquette, Giovanni features a great ability to run the ball and will shift over to receiv­er when Altoss steps in to deliver the deep threat. 
In additon, Alumni features the talent of four freshman and twelve new players altogether. Paquette says that despite their inexperience with interhall, they all understand the great impact of the rivalry. After Sunday's game, they will also learn what it's like to feel the thrill of a victo­ry or the anguish of a defeat to a rival. 
Stanford vs. Keough 
A year ago, the Stanford Hall football team was involved in several close games, including a narrow 8-6 loss to eventual champion Keenan, leaving the team greatly unsatisfied and frustrated. 
This Sunday, they will look to take out some of these frustra­tions on Keough Hall. 
Stanford is led by player-coach John Bickas, a junior who plays defensive end. Joining him in Stanford's even four-man front will be sophomore Josh Kaakua and junior Dave Hunt at the inside tackles. 
Bickas said both these players have a lot of talent and will also play as lineman on the offensive side of the ball. According to Bickas, defense will be key for Stanford this year. 
"Last year we had a lot of guys playing both ways," said Bickas. "But this year we're looking to cut that number down to just 2 or 3 guys." 
Others helping out a strong defense for Stanfor<l will be freshman defensive end Shamus Rohn, who Bickas describes as 'very talented,' and junior line­backer Anton Kemps. Bickas looks for the defense to nullify their opponents scoring ability to a point where his offense will only need to put up a touchdown or two to win a game. 
Some of the players involved in this cause will be the powerful junior fullback J.C. Perez and senior running back Chris llcid. 
This year, the Stanford coach­es were impressed by two talent­ed young quarterbacks, are looking to keep the identity of the starter under wraps until game time. 
What is for certain. is that one of the two helmsmen will have the likes of senior tight ends John Kiernan and Matt Maciaszek as targets. 
"This year's team is the most disciplined and committed Stanford team I've seen in the last two years," said Bickas. 
Stanford's Sunday opponents Keough will be looking to use the large amount of football experi­ence within the team. 
They are led by senior captain Wade Laffey, who anchor the offensive line at center. 
"The practices have been well attended and our team loves to hit," said Laffey. "We had a suc­cessful scrimmage against Dillon -everyone was excited to start hitting people wearing a different color jersey," 
Offensively, junior Travis Alexander will quarterback the team, and junior running back Ryan Yorkery will be a major ingredient in the team's mostly ground-based attack. 
"Our offense is just trying to put the ball in the end zone any way we can,'' says Laffer. On defense, the Keough team rotates personnel frequently to keep everyone fresh. so no true standouts have emerged. 
Laffey says that the team is up for Sunday's game against Stanford and is anxious to get the season underway. 
The team's attitude of scoring any way possible on offense will have its work cut out for it as it faces a Stanford· team deter­mined to keep its opponent out of the end zone at all costs. 
PART-TIME SALES ASSOCIATE 

Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore Follett Higher Education Group, the leader in higher education services, is currently seeking a Part-time Sales Associate for our Notre Dame Bookstore. 
We are looking for an experi­enced customer service orient­ed Sales Associate/Cashier to work days, nights, and week­ends. We offer $6.50 per hour. Only enthusiastic, friendly peo­ple need apply . 
To find out more about salary and benefits, please apply in person to: The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, University of 
Notre Dame, Bookstore 
Building, in Notre Dame. Visit 
us on the web: www.fhcg.follett.com.EOE 

. 
.
. 
. 
. 
~ 
... ~ ~ 
~ 
•. 
~ 


page 34 Tbe Observer . SPORTS Friday, September 17, 1999 
Join the... 

Guys and Girls Hip Hop Dance T earn 

... 
Tryouts start on September 21 !!! Clinic #1: Tuesday, Sept. 21 6:30 -8 pm 301 Rockne Clinic #2: Thursday, Sept. 23 8 -10 pm 219 Rockne 
Tryouts: Sunday, Sept. 26 8 -1 O pm 219 Rockne (Tryout dance plus two original eight-counts) 
Questions? Call Mia (243-5887) or Mandy (4-421 O) 
·­
CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish look to dominate 
at Catholic Invitational 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Sporrs W ritcr 
The men's cross country team aims for its fifth straight title and the women seek their fourth-consecutive champi­onship as Notre Dame hosts the National Catholic Invitational today. 
"For this meet, we're looking to go out in a group a.nd just dominate the meet," said sopho­more Luke Watson, who is run­ning in his first meet of the sea­son today. "If you're hurting in a race. it really helps to have your teammates them and pull you up with lhem,'' 
Thirty-three teams will com­pete in the meet, held on Notre Dame's Burke Golf Course. Despite the large number of teams competing, only. 10 squads are Division I. Only a few teams present a high level of competi.tion. 
"Obviously, we're going to try to win and work on some things which we really need to work on," said women's coach Tim Connelly. "For a couple of kids, it's their first race, so we want to see what kind of shape they're in. Basically, in both cases [men and women], we're trying to develop depth." 
Connelly will run senior All­American JoAnna Deeter, senior Alison Klemmer and junior Erin Olson in the National Catholic Invitational. The women fin­ished second at the Valparaiso Invitational last week, and with the addition of Deeter, Klemrner and Olson. thev should have no trouble sho½·ing the home crowd a victory. 
Deeter won the me('i her first three seasons, and looks to extend the streak. lier best time in the 5-km race came in 1996, when she finished in 16 min­utes, 39 seconds. 
"To be honest, we were too aggressive and never really got into a rhythm last week." Connelly said. 
The seven varsity runners in the National Catholic Invitational are Deeter. Klemmer. Olson. senior captain Erin Luby, and freshmen Jcuuii'er Handley, Chrissy Kuenster and Mufi\1 Schmidt. 
On the men's s·ide, Watson, fifth-year senior Hyan Maxwell and junior Ryan Shay are com­peting for the first time this sea­son. However. men's coach Joe Piane will hold out last week's victors -sophomore Marc Striowski, senior Sean /\&Manus and sophomore Pat Conway. 
Shay won the Notre Dame meet his first two years, with an improvement of nearly one minute from 1997 to 1998. 
"Our goal is clearly to win," Piane said. "It'd be nice to get three or four guys in the top 10. If we do that, it will be a suc­cessful day." 

Chappell 
continued from page 36 
practice Thursday. 

"I am comfortable that we acted immediately on any information we had," Davie said. 'Tm totally comfortable that we've taken the right steps with our action." 
He refused to elaborate on any University actions rnn­cerning Chappell. 
"I'm not going to comment on that," he said. "1 don't 
Visit The Observer online at httn:l/a/Jseruer.ntl.edu 
Grilled Hun.!crs. Brats. and Oth;1: Specialties Cold Beverages & Spirits 60" Screen TV\ . Fully Enclosed Tent 
ext to the N.D. Bookstore. 
219-631-2000 

think that'd be fair to Eric. And that's our policy here at Notre Dame, to not comment on that." 
University rules allow every uniformed player to invite four guests f'rf'e access to each game. 
The players do not actually receive tickets but list guests who are admitted without charge into the stadium. 
The guests must show iden­tification at the gate for the tickets. which are purr,hased by the athletic department. 
The NCAA Committee on Infractions currPntly is inves­tigating the Univflrsity for a case involving a former foot­ball booster who allegedly gave former team members $18,000 in gifts. 
Notre Dame appeared before the committee June 4 and was told the case would be resolved in six weflks. A decision has not yet been reai:hed. 
Chappell. formerly a third­string quarterback, hadn't played at all for the Irish this season. 
Last year, he played in only thrco games, going 0-for-4 with two interceptions. 


Friday, September 17, 1999 The Observer . TODAY page 35 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 31 Not nous 58 Error that leads 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): This is 32 Bristles to trial 
DAY: Anne Bancroft, John Ritter, Cas­a great day fur self-improvement or
1 Pot contents. 
33--nous 60 Hierarchy sandra Peterson (Elvira), David doing things with children. You need
perhaps 
63 Danish cheese Souter, Hank Williams Sr. to get involved in hobbies that \\'ill
34 Leaching

8Weak Happy Birthday: Tighten your spark an interest and stimulatt• your
product 65 "1984" setting 

purse strings and you will do much mind.00
15 Light yellowish 
35 Perverse 66 Program better this year. Choose your friends LIBRA (Sept. 23-Ocl. 22): Y,,ur
green 
particular wisely, and you will refrain from intuition will be right on, but if rnu
37 Vina --Mar,

16 Musical wasting time on unnecessary activi­point an accusing finger, you can
Chile 67 Salad 

embellishment preparation step ties. You must be willing to plan care­expect denial and a harsh response.
39 Defective 

fully and take your time when mak­Be observant and wait for a better
11 Roman home 68 Referee
42 Scourges ing long-lasting decisions. Your num­time. 0000
protectors 
69 Banger, in bers: 4, 9, 13, 26, 34, 40 SCORPIO (Ocl. 23-Nov. 21): t'-:ew
46 Gorilla's swing 

1 s They're left Britain ARIES (March 21-April 19): Put romantic opportunities will be pre•
behind so Gloaming all your work on hold. It's time you sent if you get mvolved in fund-rais­19 Property of a 51 Floor spent some time with the one you ing events. Confusion will surface if cliche 52 Tannin source DOWN loved. You can expect to rekindle a your potential mate is already com­relationship that has been stagnating mitted to someone else. 000 
21 Readyfor 53 Finnish 1 They're off for some time now. Make special SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21):
cross-country

drawing during takeoff plans for h-vo. 00000 Be cautious of individuals who are gold medalist TAURUS (April 20-May 20): trying to befriend you too quickly.
22 Gray piece 2 Accumulating
Maentyranta Don't spend too much on luxury Protect yourself by keeping your
23 Safer associate fines 
55 First-magnitude items or entertainment. Sudden secrets to yourself. It's unlikely that 25 Shiva's wife 3 Superlatively changes may result in short road trips the people around you are being hon­
star in Virgo 

spare or a number of telephone calls to est. 000
26 Hardly retiring 57 Launch of 
4 "Aroint thee!," in close friends or relatives. 000 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-)an. 19): 29 Fine-tune 2/20/86 GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You You will pick up valuable knowledge
modern 

won't find it easy to get along with if you talk to people who have
language 

those you live with. Don't exaggerate already experienced things that yous Poet laureate of if you want to avoid opposition and are encountering at present. Don't
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
1692 upset. Your main concern should be deny that you have such problems & Blissful states self-improvement, not changing oth­000HA Puzzle by Daniel R. Stark ers. 000 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You
7 Leopard spot 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): A will be luck)' financially, but you are 
a Flash flood 30 Dirigible parts 47 Suffocating 59 Mother of the 
good friend will need your help. Try just as likely to let your money burn a
solution Valkyries
9 West end of L.A.? 36 Southern roots to ease his or her worry by offering hole in )'Our pocket. Put your money 10--parts 38 "Turandot" slave 
48 Carpentry chore 61 Dinner table? logical solutions to their dilemma. into sound investments, not dubious You can make a difference to the fast-cash schemes. 0000
girl 49 Land 62 It's often made 11 Knight noise 
outcome. 000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Makt•
39Aoyal 54 Qabus bin Said, freshly

12 Elephant grass, LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Check out special plans that will enhanc,• your 
e.g. Philharmonic e.g. 64 Entombed some of those monev-making oppor­personal relationship A romantic founder 56 Fungal spore sacs king tunities that are around you. Small offer from someone you met through
13 For best results 

40 Bt or C-, e.g. business ventures will pay off if you work may be occup,·ing your
14 Not fancy at all 

don't put your personal assets on the thoughts. Don't think that vour mate -'-'+'c'-+:.c..+:~ 20 Cut 41 Reasoned out line. Start small and let things build is not aware. 00
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
--1--11--11--1 24 Enrich, in a way 43 When the kids naturally. 00000 
are available by·touch-tone phone: -::-i-:-:-1-::-ir.:-ir:-1 21 Bit of hesitation 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
are out 

Birthday Baby: You have a need to find your own spiritual direction. Once 
28--Buena 44 Handel opera 

Annual subscriptions are available for the you do, you will be able to focus on your greatest talents to rnakl' tht' changL'S(island in San 45 They may be best of Sunday crosswords from the last necessary to benl'fit \'Ourself and those around you. Francisco Bay) private 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. (Need advice? Check out Eugenia's Web sitl', ,ll astroadvice.com, 
eugenialast.com, astromate.com.) 
, Jl/l/q L'ni\ ,•r-..11 f'n·~, Snldil,1ll• 
-

Visit The Observer on the web at http://observer.nd.edu/ 

TOM KEELEY
FOURTH AND INCHES 
-n115, Aln"o6t:.~Pfll!~ \/11,Jn<. :l'. lO\Jl..01/1: ~1"1'EN ,.REI) .SAVA<a.E Jz.. "\5' DovJtJ ~T "'AL PAOO t.e St.L.L.'/! 
-:t \JEEO, IS. $OK IAL, 'I t.JcE.0 t\ 61 IA/11.l.-L'£T ""'" 0 
£)(~£TLY HOW 

BILL AMEND
Fox TROT (DILBERT HAS MOVED TO THE VIEWPOINT PAGES.) 

I CHEC.l<ED A.GAIN YEAH, 1\-¾IS MoRNING -SAME 

JEFF BEAM

A DEPRAVED NEW WORLD 

beam.1@nd.edu 

Winning Ways 

The women• s volleyball team looks to get back on a winning track after a disappointing second-place finish at the Big Orange Bash.
PORTS 



page 28 
O
TH£ page 36 BSERVER 
FOOTBALL 

ND investigates Chappell's reported NCAA violation 
. Officials aware "Anytime something hap­"Just because a story is tickets for $50 each for the ment last Tuesday to the ath­pens that could involve an Sept. 4 Notre Dame-Michigan letic department assuming
published, doesn't mean
of allegations for NCAA violation, we make a game. The source said they did responsibiUty for the actions report to the NCAA," it's news to everyone. It not purchase the tickets. which led to his dismissal. 
a few weeks 

University spokesman Dennis is not something we The source then reportedly "I don't want to be inter­Moore said. informed the athletic depart­viewed about the reason I was 
By BRIAN KESSLER didn't know before"
Moore refused to provide ment of the attempted sale. dismissed," Chappell said Sports Editor 
specifics on the investigation, The source and the graduate Thursday night. "The whole and TIM CASEY 
· but said he has been aware of Dennis Moore previously accepted free tickets situation is embarrassing." Sports Wrirer 
allegations for a few weeks. from Chappell and other play­Chappell said he has not had
University spokesman
"Just because a story is pub­ers, the source said. contact with the athletic 
Notre Dame is investigating lished, doesn't mean it is news ball team for attempting to sell Chappell, a senior, denied department since submitting allegations that backup quar­to everyone," Moore said. "It is complimentary tickets and for the allegations Wednesday. the statement. terback Eric Chappell may not something we didn't know accepting gifts totaling $5,000. Davie announced Chappell's Head coach Bob Davie com­have violated NCAA rules by about before." Chappell reportedly offered dismissal, referred to as an mented on the allegations attempting to sell complimen­A source told The Observer the source and an acquain­"internal team matter," last involving Chappell after team tary football tickets. school Wednesday night that Chappell tance, described as a 1998 Tuesday. officials said Thursday. was dismissed from the foot-Notre Dame graduate, two Chappell released a state-see CHAPPELL/page 34 
Friday, September 17, 1999 
FOOTBALL HISTORY 
Irish go to 
Rose Bowl in 1925 
Editor's note: Notre Dame's journey to achieve designation as the 20th century's greatest college football team is marked by 10 milestones, one in each decade since 1900. The Observer examines these moments in a 10-part series that will appear on Fridays. 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Associate Sports Editor 
In rare instances, the product is as good as the hype. 
Such was the case in 1925 when Knute Rockne took his 9-0 football team -with its famed Four Horsemen backfield ­across the country and defeated the Stanford Indians, 27-10, in the 1925 Rose Bowl. 
"The writers who have been describing their prowess must be sadly limited as to superla­tives in their vocabularies," Eugene Nixon, head coach of Pomona College, wrote in the 

-
Jan. 20, 1925 edition of Scholastic Magazine. "For none of them have done the Irish jus­tice." 
Thanks to Grantland Rice's writing and George Strickler's photography, the Irish backfield of Harry Stuhldreher. Jim Crowley, Don Miller and Elmer Layden achieved legendary sta­tus from coast to coast. Rice had begun the hype with his Oct. 24, 1924 article on Notre Dame's 13-7 victory over Army. Sports wires spread his story that 
see HORSEMEN/page 32 

... 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Pruzinsky, Mikacenic solidify NP roster 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Associate Sports Writer 
Lost in the shufne of returning starters, All-Americans and dominating seniors on the women's soccer roster, two freshmen have emerged as starters and important pieces of a possible national championship picture. 
Venessa Pruzinsky and Nancy Mikacenic have started every game for the Irish and each picked up their first point Wednesday against Butler. 
Mikacenic scored the first goal of the game for the Irish when she cleaned up a loose ball in front of the Bulldogs net and punched it in for the game-winner. Mikacenic's first collegiate goal was a thrill for her. 
"It was very big time," she said. "So when they announced that I had scored my first career goal, I couldn't believe it." 
Mikacenic's goal was no fluke. Later in the half, she nearly scored from outside the penalty box with a blistering shot that sailed just wide of the net. She had another 
· good scoring opportunity when she headed a crossing pass toward the net. The Bulldog goaltender, however, made a great save to deny Mikacenic her second goal of the game. Pruzinsky, not to be outdone by her class­mate, picked up a point of her own later in the game. She fed senior midfielder Jenny Streiffer as she streaked through the Bulldog defense. Streiffer beat two defend­ers to blast the ball into the net. Pruzinsky and Mikacenic both started the year on the back line for the Irish. When head coach Handy Waldrum arrived at Notre Dame, he implemented a four defen­sive back set. With Jen Grubb's move to the midfifdd, two positions needed to be filled on the Irish defense. Mikacenic and Pruzinsky quickly distin­guished themselves as talented players in pre-season. By the time the season opener against North Carolina rolled around. they have firmly' established themselves as the 
JOHN DAILY/The Observer 
starters. 

Frehman midfielder Nancy Mikacenic, who earned a position in the Irish start­ing lineup, scored Notre Dame's first goal in its win over Butler Wednesday. 
see SOCCER/page 32 


• vs. Michigan State vs. Texas A&M 
Volleyball 

Saturday, 1 :30 p.m. Houston, Texas 
vs. Manchester College 
SPORTS ~ f!i
Friday, 4 p.m. 
Friday, 6:30 p.m. 
ATA 

ar Connecticut Volleyball 
Soccer

Sunday, l p.m. vs. Miami (Ohio) 
at Anderson College 
,,.J GLANCE ~ • s31 
Saturday, 7 p.m. 
Saturday, 1 :30 p.m. 


NSIDER 
OTHE 

Friday, September 17, 1999 BSERVER Notre Dame vs Michigan State 

JEFF HSU/The Observer 

Senior Irish center John Merandi is the only returning starter from last year's Irish offensive line. His experience and leadership have been crucial for the growth and Improvement of the young offensive line. For more on the center of the Irish attack, see page 3. 
KICK-OFF FORECASTINSIDE 

game preview..............page 2 
rosters........................ page 4 
home: 1-0 home: 2-0
vs.

focus on opponent........page s 
away: 0-2 away: o-o college games today.....page 6 


gametime: 1:30 p.m. ND time pregame commentary....page 7 
weather: Partly sunny with a high in the low 70s. 
page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 17, 1999 
Notre Dame seeks revenge against Spartans 
By BILL HART Associate Sports Editor 
At the start of this season, many Irish supportArs saw the Michigan State game as a chance to exact some revenge. 
Now, however, most fans see it as an opportunity for the team to get back on track. 
After two close losses to Michigan and Purdue, the 24th­ranked Irish return to home turf to begin a five-game home stand -an advantage apparent to head coach Bob Davie. 
"I know for our football team it is good to have a chance to be back home and playing Notre Dame Stadium," he said. "When you start this season or prior to this season when you look at 
· our schedule, you knew that [the Big Ten stretch) was going to be a grind." 
Davie knows the challenge before him is daunting. The Michigan State squad is off to a 2-0 start, fresh off a 51-7 rout of Eastern Michigan. 
"Coming back and playing Michigan State is not an easy task,'' Davie said. "Without a doubt, thev are the must talent­ed f'ootbalf team we have played so far this season. That is a pretty strong statement, but I have no doubt about that." 
The Spartans certainly seem to have all their pieces in work­ing order. 
In last week's game, quarter­back Bill Burke led his offense to 492 total yards, while the defense allowed just seven Eagle first downs. 
"You just look at the athleti­cism thev have." Davie said about the·spartans. "Really, just about at every position; the size they have, but the combination of a lot of skilled players that can run and a lot of big strong bodies, they are a very talented football team, in my opinion." · 
Much of that talent was put on display the last time these teams met. The rt'lsult was a 45-23 Michigan State win in East Lansing, Mich. 
Many Irish players still remember that loss, and look to this as an opportunity for some payback. 
"There is a revenge factor in this," quarterback /'.\.rnaz Battle said. "We're coming off two close losses, which puts us in the same position that they were in going into last year's game." 
Still, the Irish have many fac­tors in their favor, most notably a 10-game winning streak at home, the longest in almost 10 years. 
In addition, a solid passing game led by quarterback Jarious Jackson has kept the team within striking distance. Jackson's combined 569 passing yards during the last two games ranks third on the Irish all-time list since 1970. 
"He's been making some great plays," Battle said about Jackson's performances. "He's made some key third-down con­versions in the past two games. He's made big plays, and that's just part of his being a team leader." 
With its 1-2 record, this game could determine how the rest of the season progresses. With that in mind, Davie said he realizes the game's importance. 
"To think you are going to win and then have it snatched away from you, you don't envision that happening," he said. "Because of that, it makes this Michigan State game that much more important; even that much more of a challenge." 


-

KEVIN DALUM/The Observer Tony Driver rushes for some of his 51 yards against Purdue. Driver wlll continue to split time with Tony Fisher at tailback this Saturday against Michigan State. 
game hype 

"/ am confident that the coaches will set everything in order.·· 
Bobby Brown Irish receiver 
"Michigan State is probably the toughest team . we have faced so far this season.,, 

Bob Davie Irish coach 
"This week is just setting a standard of Notre Dame excellence on the offensive line.,, 
·~we haven't lost faith in the coaches and I hope they haven't lost faith 

Tony Fisher
in us.,. 
Irish tailback 


Be a Part of History .. The Final Game Ever to be Played at Pitt Stadium ... 
NOTRE DAME vs. PITT 
November 13, 1999 Special Package Available through: 

*2 Nights Hotel Accommorlations -Just 6 Blocks from Pitt Stadium! *2 Passes for Pre-Game Tailgate Party and. most important, *2 TICKETS to what Pitt students are referring to as, "THE GAME" 
For more information, please call (412) 681-1000. 
Friday, September 17, 1999 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Merandi exemplifies leadership 
. Senior center 
works overtime preparing inexperienced line 
By BRIAN KESSLER Sports Editor 

Merandi

As dusk approaches, a long day of football practice finally ends. position: center 
The players slowly funnel year: senior out of Cartier tiPld in groups, 
awards: ranked seventh

discussing thn day's events 
nationally among centers

and shooting the brcRze. But in the back corner of the in '99 by Lindy's; named practice field, Sf-mior center first team preseason All John Merandi continues to 
American by Street & 

work with the offensive line 
Smith's in conjunction with

unit, preparing them for 
the Walter Camp 

Saturday's game against Michigan State. Foundation "It's a big role for me," the notables: started all I 2 6-l'oot-3, 300 pounder said. "I 
gamesJo the Irish last sea­

was the young guy last year, 
son and logged the most

but now it's my turn to lead 
minutes ofany player

by example. Every week you have to go out und gel the guys ready to play. We're 
working extra and making ing to work to be like him. He's sure our technique gets better all I have to look to. He's a 
this week because Michigan great center and a preseason State is a good team." All-American. Why not try to Last season, Merandi was emulate him and be like him?" the only non-returnee on the After all, Merandi was o!Tensive line. Ile gained valu­ranked seventh nationally able experience from Jerry· among centers in '99 presea­
Wisne, Luke Petitgout and son rankings by Lindy's and Mike Hosenthal -all of whom was named a first-team pre­were '99 NFL draft picks. As a season All American by Street junior, Merandi started all 12 and Smith's magazine in con­juction with the Walter camp
games and logged the most minutes of anyone on the foundation. 
squad. "They are great but the Now Merandi has inherited biggest award I wanted was to and accepted the role of win a national championship and be 10-2," Merandi said.
lcacher to ~otre Dame's inex­
pericmced linemen. "That's my number one goal 
"The best experience is game and what I'm looking forward to."
experience and that is what these guys are finding out," he While it seems that a nation­said. "It's adjustment. You get al championship will elude the 
out on the field and it's 100 Irish once again this season, times faster. Merandi may be eligible for a That's why fifth-year and another
practice is so "He's all I have to look to. 
run at a

important. 
Why not try to emulate 

Wh(rn you get title. out there, you him and be like him?" "I'm not have to know sure yet, so I what you're just have to
Jeff Faine 

doing when prepare like 
freshman center

you're block­it's my last ing." year here," 
Merandi has 
he said. been a mentor for players like Merandi, however, clearly freshman Jeff Faine, a USA isn't writing off this season Today first-team prep All­and he continues to lead the Irish into battle in the trench­
American who looks to be the futum at.center for the Irish. es. So far, the offensive line 
"Ife's been a tremendous has held up reasonably well teacher," Faine said. "He's for a young corps. probably been the best influ­The Irish withstood 
Michigan's big, talented defen­

ence on me since I've been 
here, helping me learn the sive line and had a good show­plays. Ile's been one of the ing against Purdue. Costly greatest leaders I've ever penalties, however, have over­
played under and has taught shadowed many of the posi­me everything I know since tives. I'v<i been here. John Merandi "We've done some good is a great player. a great cen­things, but I also think we've 
ter and a grnat leader." made some mistakes that need Merandi has taken Faine and 
to be corrected," Merandi said. the rest of the young o-line "Each week you have to try to 
under his wing and the players get better. That's our job as genuinely look up to him. seniors to make sure the guys "I Io's a great leader when it don't setttle for anything but comes to helping out the unit the best. You have to be a 
and trying to get the unit vocal leader, but the biggest straight," Faine said. "I'm try-thing is to lead by example." 

Merandi is enjoying his role izes the importance of offensive tackles struggled a as a leader in the Irish huddle. Merandi's role on the team. little bit with Purdue's defen­
"I think it's exciting," he "John Morandi is key," Davie sive ends. They will even get a said. "It's a great opportunity said. "We need to establish our bigger taste of it this week because you get to direct traf­fullback and our center is a big with Michigan State. So that fic out there and make sure part of that. Plus, John, he is whole offensive line and in everyone is on the same page." kind of the elder statesman in particular John Merandi's 
Head coach Bob Davie real-there. And you see that our leadership, I think that is key." 
birthdate: February 23, r978 Aword to describe him on the football area he most wants to 
hometown: Blue Jay, Calif. field: killer improve: use ofhands major: management Aword to describe him off the if he could play another position dimensions: 6-foot-3, field: relaxed on the other side of the ball ii 
up close & 
personal 

300 pounds People who have helped the would be: linebacker favorite class: management · most while at Notre Dame: my best personal athletic moment: WITH JOHN MERANDI-with professor Michael parents and coaches beating Michigan last Crant year 
The Observer . IRISH INSIDER 
IN POSITION: punt team 

Snaps critical against MSU 
page4 
1999 FIGHTING IRISH 
Schedule  
Aug.28  KANSAS  W.48•13  
Sept. 4  at Michigan  L26·22  
Sept. 11  a1 Purdue  l 28·23  
Spet. 18  MICHIGAN STATE  
Oct. 2  OKLAHOMA  
Oct. 9  ARIZONA STATE  
Oct. 16  USC  
Oct. 30  NAVY  
Nov. 6  at Tennessee  
Nov. 13 Nov.20  at Pittsburgh BOSTON COLLEGE  
Nov.27  at Stanford  


third season at Notre Dame 
career record: 
z7-11 
at Notre Dame: 
I7·II 

Davie against Michigan head coach State: 0-2 
Roster 

No.  Name  Pos.  HL  Wt  YR  
1  Deke Cooper  FS  6-2  220  SR  
2  Carlos Pierre-Antoine JLR  6-3  245  SO  
3  Amaz Battle  QB  6-1  215  SO  
4  Jamaar Tavlor  WR  6-0  200  FR  
5  A'J ani san'ders  FS  5-10  197  SR  
6  David Givens  SE  6-1  217  SO  
7  Jarious Jackson  QB  6--1  228  SR  
8  Anthony Brannan  OLB  5-10  215  SR  
9  Raki Nelson  FL  5-11  180  SR  
9  Dwayne Francis  DB  6-0  189  SO  
10  Deveron Harper  CB  5-11  187  SR  
11  Jay Johnson  SE  6-0  191  SR  
12  Tony Fisher  RB  6-2  225  SO  
13  Nick Setta  K/P  6-0  160  FR  
14  James Caputo  P  6--1  193  SR  
14  Dan Novakov  QB  6--3  210  FR  
15  Clifford Jefferson  CB  5-9  182  SO  
16  Glenn Earl  DB  6-1  185  FR  
16  John Shingler  TE  6-2  252  SR  
17  Joey Hildbold  P/K  5-11  175  FR  
17  Jeremy Juarez  FB  5-11  250  JR  
18  Joey O,therall  FL  5-7  176  JR  
19  Jim Sanson  K  5-9  187  SR  
20  Gerome Sapp  DB  6-0  210  FR  
21  Javin Hunter  FL  6-0  185  SO  
22  Julius Jones  RB  5-11  185  FR  
23  Chris Yura  RB/DB  5-11  195  FR  
24  Albery Poree  DB  5-10  185  FR  
25  Tony Driver  TB  6--1  217  JR  
26  Lee Lafayette  CB  5-9  196  SR  
27  Jason Beckstrom  DB  5-10  185  FR  
28  Donald Dykes  SS  5-11  197  SO  
28  Mike Grady  FS  5-11  200  SR  
29  Justin Smith  FS  5-11  190  JR  
30  Rocky Boiman  OLB  6-4  245  SO  
32  Terrance Howard  TB  6--1  193  SO  
33  Courtney Watson  RB  6--2  205  FR  
34  Ronnie Nicks  ILB  6-0  240  SR  
35  David Miller  K-P  5-11  190  SO  
35  Iim O'Neill  TB  5-5  163  SO  
36  Tom Lopienski  FB  6--1  259  SO  
37  Ron Israel  SS  6-0  205  JR  
39  Anthony Denman  ILE  6--2  230  JR  
39  Chris Leck  SS  5-9  192  SR  
40  Jason Murray  FB  6-1  260  JR  
40  Brendan Farrell  ILE  5-9  232  SR  
41  Joe Ferrer  OLB  6--2  235  SR  
42  Shane Walton  CB  5-11  185  SO  
44  Grant Irons  DE  6-5  272  JR  
45  Joey Goodspeed  FB  6-0  250  SR  
46  Andrew Dempsey  TE/DE  6--2  252  JR  
47  MikeMcNalr  FB  6-0  242  SO  
48  Johnathan Hebert  SE  §-11  199  SR  
50  Cedric Hilliard  DL  6--3  295  FR  
51  Tyreo Harrison  !LB  6-2  235  SO  
52  Jeff Faine  OL  6--3  31()  FR  
53  Lamont Bryant  DE  6--3  265  SR  
54  B.J. Scott  C  6-3  285  SR  
55  Jim Jones  0G  6-3  307  SR  
56  Pat Ryan  LB  6--3  220  FR  
56  John Crowther  LS  6--2  245  SO  
57  Justin Thomas  LB  6--2  230  FR  
57  Luigi Rao  LB  5-10  208  JR  
58  Brendan O'Connor  0G  6--2  292  JR  
60 61  Darrell Campbell Mike Zelenka  DL FB  6--4 6-0  245 218  SO JR  
62  CaseyRol>in  OT  6--7  311  JR  
63  Brennan Curtin  OL  6-8  295  FK  
63  Mike Tribe  Il.,B  5-10  220  JR  
64  John Merandi  C  6--3  300  SR  
65  Sean Milligan  OL  6--4  285  FR  
66  JWJordan  C  6-1  277  JR  
67  Ryan Gillis  OL  6--3  315  FR  
68  Matt Brennan  OT  6-6  305  SR  
69  Mike Gandy  0G  6-4  292  SR  
70  Jim Molinaro  DL  6-7  240  FR  
71  NeilAmbron  OL  6-7  275  FR  
72  Ryan Scarola  OT.  6-5  303  SO  
74  RobMowl  0G  6-5  295  SR  
75  KurtVollers  OT  6-7  299  JR  
76  John Teasdale  OT  6-6  306  JR  
77  Brad Williams  DI  6--4  288  SR  
78  jordan Black  OT  6-6  313  SO  
79  Sean Mahan  OT  6--4  285  SO  
80  Gary Godsev  TE  6-7  255  FR  
83  Patrick Reynolds  WR  5-11  184  SO  
84  John Owens  TE  6-3  24/i  FR  
85  Antwan Jones  OT  6-2  283  SR  
85  Mark Rule  WR/QB 6-2  218  SR  
86  Dan O'Leary  TE  6--4  260  SR  
87  Jabari Holloway  TE  6-4  260  JR  
88  Bobby Brown  FL  6--2  193  SR  
89  Gerald Morgan  TE  6-4  261  SO  
90  Lance Legree  OT  6-1  296  SR  
91  N. VEnHook-Drucker DE  6-2  271  SK  
94  Andy Wisne  DT  6--3  270  JR  
95  Ryan Roberts  DE  6-2  260  SO  
98  Anthony Weaver  DT  6--3  270  SO  
98  Eric Glass  DT  6--4  252  SR  
99  Jason Ching  DE  6--3  267  SR  

Friday, September 17, 1999 

1999 MICHIGAN STATE 
Schedule  
Sept. 4  OREGON  W27-20  
Sept. 11  EASTERN MICHIGN  W51-7  
Sept. 18  at Notre Dame  
Sept. 25  _al Illinois  
Oct. 2  IOWA  
Oct. 9  MICHIGAN  
Oct. 16  at Purdue  
Ocl. 23  at Wisconsin  
Nov.6  OHIO STATE  
Nov. 13  at Northwestern  
Nov. 20  PENN STATE  


fifth season at 
Michigan State 
career record: 
34-24-1 
at Michigan State: 
25-22-1 

Nick Saban against Notre head coach Dame: 2-0 


No.  Name  Pos.  Ht.  Wt.  YR  
l  Paul Edinger  K  5-10  168  SR  
2  Herb Haygood  'A'R  6-0  180  SO  
3  Amp Campbell  Cll  6--0  200  SR  
3  Andy Kennedy  K  6--0  193  SR  
4  Plaxico Burress  WR  6--6  229  JR  
4  Max Axler  K  5-10  182  SR  
5  Lorenzo Guess  S  6-1  188  SO  
6  Jabari Hendricks  DE  6-4  275  JR  
6  Phinney Masoner  K  5-10  160  SO  
7  Lavaile Richardson  WR  6--2  198  JR  
8  T.J. Duckett  LB  6-2  255  FR  
9  Arie Morris  S  5-11  207  SR  
9  Dan Orner  K  5-7  185  FR  
10  Arron Agler  QB  6--4  229  FR  
JO  Tai Brown  CB  5-10  174  SO  
11  Matt Bitonti  WR  5-JJ  186  JR  
11  Pierre Wilson  LB  6-3  246  FR  
12  Craig Jarrett  P  6-2  208  SO  
13  Ryan VanDyke  QB  6-5  214  SO  
14  David Shaefer  K  5-10  182  SO  
15  Renaldo Hill  CB  5-11  170  JR  
15  Todd Zayti  WR  6-0  172  SR  
16  Bill Burke  QB  6-5  200  SR  
17  Bradlee Van Pelt  QB  6-3  210  FR  
18  Dan Larlham  QB  6-0  215  FR  
18  Durocher Miller  WR  6-1  180  FR  
19  DeMario Suggs  CB  5-11  193  JR  
20  Rich Bryce  DB  6-3  192  FR  
20  Derrick Lee  WR  6-2  203  JR  
21  Broderick Nelson  CB  6-0  170  SO  
22  Shawn Foster  TB  5-11  200  SO  
23  Little john Flowers  TB  6-0  208  SO  
23  Jeremy Rolinski  P  5-10  160  FR  
24  Richard Brown  CB  5-IJ  192  JR  
25  Mike Austin  LB  6--3  234  SR  
26  Jimel Cofer  S  6--1  191  FR  
27  Duron Bryan  S  6-0  191  SO  
30  Matt Kropf  LB  6-3  229  SO  
31  Shawn Wright  LB  6-2  230  SR  
32  Richard Newsome  S  5-IJ  191  JR  
33  Josh Lenaburg  WR  6-0  170  FR  
34  Billy Greene  FB  6-1  238  SR  
35  I.J. Turner  LB  6--2  241  JR  
36  Lloyd Clemons  TB  5-IJ  211  SR  
37  Cedric Henry  CB  5-10  183  SO  
38  DrewYoung  S  6--2  210  JR  
39  Donvetis Franklin  CB  5-11  189  SR  
40  Wes Kammer  LB  6-2  228  JR  
41  Matt Dawes  LB  6--1  221  SO  
42  Mike Labinjo  TB  6-1  250  FR  
43  Mike McConnell  TB  6-1  200  FR  
44  Marcus Waters  LB  6--5  235  FR  
48  Bill McPherson  FB  6--2  215  FR  
49  Dawan Moss  FB  5-11  233  FR  
50  Josh Thornhill  LB  6--3  235  SO  
51  Brian Grant  C  6-3  271  JR  
51  Jeff Tazelaar  LB  6-2  221  FR  
52  Mike Neal  C  6-1  250  SR  
53  Adam Spina  LB  6--4  218  SO  
.54  Brian Williams  LB  6-2  196  SR  
55  James Smith  LB  6-3  240  FR  
56  TonyGrant  0G  6-2  263  SO  
57  Paul Harker  0G  6-3  288  SO  
58  Matt Branson  0G  6-2  270  SO  
59  Raheem Miller  DE  6-2  243  SR  
61  Joe Patrick  OL  6-6  310  FR  
62  Steve Stewart  OL  6-5  310  FR  
63  Marty Wensel  0G  6-2  277  SO  
64  Casey Jensen  C  6-7  294  SR  
65  Ulish Booker  OT  6-6  268  SO  
6b  Desmond Thomas  OT  6--3  285  SR  
67  DeMarco Monroe  OL  6--4  '.l(J()  FR  
68  Joe Tate  OL  6--4  275  FR  
69  Ray Kouba  0G  6-1  264  FR  
70  Dave Sucura  0G  6--3  286  JR  
71  Shaun Mason  0G  6--5  275  JR  
72  Matt Bonito  OT  6-6  271  JR  
73  Brian Ottnev  OL  6-6  285  FR  
74  Tupe Peko - OT  6--4  276  JR  
75  Nick Myers  DE  6-2  27S  SO  
76  G. Robinson-Randal!OT  6-5  312  SR  
77  Josh Smith  C  6-3  272  SO  
79  Ellington Wills  DT  6-4  270  PR  
80  )ace Sayler  DT  6-5  285  JR  
80  E.J. Martin  WR  6-0  177  SR  
81  Joe Savage  WR  6-3  190  FR  
82  Brandon Hughes  WR  5-9  165  JR  
83  Chris Baker  TE  6-3  259  FR  
84  Brad Rainko  TE  6-3  241  SR  
85  Ivory McCoy  TE  6-3  227  JR  
86  Gari Scott  WR  6-l  197  SR  
87  Demortt Smith  WR  5-10  172  JR  
88  Kyle Rance  TE  6-6  251  SR  
89  Hubert Thompson  DE  6-4  268  SO  
89  Terrance Brinkley  WR  5-10  170  SO  
91  Kobaire Smith  DE  6-5  269  SR  
92  Pete Govens  DT  6--4  285  JR  
93  Samalj Gordon  DE  6-5  245  FR  
94  Derek Stielstra  DT  6--4  280  FR  
95  Josh Shaw  OT  6-3  275  SO  
96  Kendall Daniels  LB  6-3  250  JR  
97  Brian Dieckman  TE  6--3  226  FR  
98  Julian Peterson  LB  6--4  235  SR  
99  Dimitry Bernard  DE  6--3  235  JR  

Observer Staff Report 
Last year against Michigan State, a blocked punt sparked the Spartans to a 42­point first half. Against Kansas, long snaps were fre­quently off-target. One off-target snap led to a blocked extra-poir;i.t attempt. 
Senior long snap­per and tight end Dan O'Leary must be sure to keep his snaps on target Saturday against the Spartans. Punt cov­erage must also be perfect as Michigan St. possess a big play returner in senior Gary Sr,ott. 
"We have worked the heck out of Dan O'Leary," head coach Bob Davie said. "I think our protection is a little but better than last year. We have devoted an unbeliev­able amount of time to that." 
NOTRE DAME 
OFFENSE 

TAILBACK 
12-FISHfR
"''"'~ 
RIGHT TACKLE 
76-Tuuala 
63-Curlfn 
TIGHTEND 87-llolloWllY 
Sti-O'lear/ 
Michigan State 
OFFENSE s 
LEFT End 15-Myers89-Tllompson 
TAILBACi .. '. 0 
3&-Clo11111n1 '':,'; 
23-Aowsrs ,_ . . ·. ': .:, ..-: . . 
; .•:\-;~. _;. 
.. /,_ ·:'.:. 
RIGHT TACKLE 
7&-Rabertnn 
72·Bonlto , 
·­
'',. 


jEFF HSUfThe Observer 

Dan O'Leary (86) and the Notre Dame punt cover­
age team will be severely challenged by Michigan State return team Saturday. 
SPLITENrA
88-Brown 21•Hunte 
LEFT TACKLE 
7B•Blaci 
7Holle,s 

WLB 

, ­
8-0uckett
1111-PetBrton ~
..··. 
ss 
9-lllorrls · 
27-llfyan 

Michigan State 
DEFENSE s 

C0RNERBACK 
3-Campbtll
39-Franklin 
SPLIT Ellll 
4-Bunesa 
7-Rlcl1ardson 
LEFT TACKLE 7Heta 6S'Boollllr,---.__
1 
LEfT GUARD 
70-S 
't
118 
WLB 
39-Denman 
2-Piarre-Antoine 

CORNERBACK c' 
15-Jeffarnn · ­
26-latayi!lte 
CORNERaAC 
· 1IHlllrpar · 28-0ykes 
STRONG 
SMETV 
5-Slllders 12·Smilh 
FI\EE SAfET'/
1-taaper 20·Sapp 
NOTRE DAME 
DEFENSE 
a big-play 
CORNERBACK 
15-HIII 19-SUIHIS 
~ 




Friday, September 17, 1999 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 5 
EYE ON THE ENEMY 
Irish take on another tough quarterback 

ByTlM CASEY Sports Writer 
After facing one of the· top quarterbacks in the country last week, anything the Irish face now should be a breeze. 
Or maybe not. 
"I think their [Michigan State's! quarterback is really a good player," Bob Davie said at Tuesday's press conference. "lie reminds me a lot of [Tom] Brady from Michigan. He's a big, tall guy that throws the ball accurately and can move around a bit." 
That quarterback Davie is referring to is MSU's Bill Burke. Though not as hyped as Purdue's Drew Brees, the Spartans lefty signalcaller has an impressive resume of his own. 
Notre Dame fans remember Burke from last year. Burke was the leader behind an offense that scorched the Irish for 42 first-half points en route to a 45-23 record. In that game, Burke threw for 209 yards and three touch­downs. 
In his first season as starting quarterback, Burke completed 54 percent of his passes for a Michigan State record of 2,595 yards to go along with 19 touchdowns and 10 intercep­tions. 
"He's gotten a lot stronger and has a lot more confidence than last year," said defensive coordinator Greg Mattison. "Their offense suits him well. He'll be a load for us to han­dle." 
While Burke directs the Spartan offense, he has a pair of talented receivers that make his job a little easier. Both junior Plaxico Burress and senior Gari Scott will pose a threat to tho thin Irish sec­ondary. 
"They're the best wide receivers we'll play all year long," said Mattison. Burress -one of the top five receivers in the country, according to The Sporting News. and a potential first-round draft pick -begins his second campaign as the starter at split end. 
A 6-foot-6, 229 pound target with speed, Burress led the Spartans with 65 receptions, 1 ,0l 3 receiving yards and eight touchdown receptions a year ago. Included among his receptions was an 86-yard touchdown against the Irish. 

Scott, the returning starter at flanker. ranked second on the team a year ago with 58 catches for 843 yards. He also returns punts for the Spartans. 
Sophomore Herb Haygood, who runs a 4.4 40-yard dash and junior Lavaille Richardson provide additional threats to the passing game. 
Thus far this season in Michigan State's two wins, Burke has thrown for 316 yards and two touchdowns. Scott caught 7 receptions and three touchdowns while Buresss led the team with eight receptions. 
"They do an excellent job like Michigan does on throw­ing the ball a lot on running downs," Davie said. "They throw it when you least expect it so you don't get matched up a lot, particularly in pass-rush situations. It's not easy to pressure him [Burke] because of their scheme." 
fast facts 
ABOUT 

MICHIGAN 
STATE 

THE NEW TRADITION 
Italian/Sicilian 
0 233-1000
Dining 

South Bend's newest Italian Restaurant 
Fresh Prepared Dinners, Pizza, Beverages 
Quoted as 'The Best Italian Restaurant in the area". 
Go Irish! 
Try us after the game 
Reservations Recommended 

Located Downtown South Bend 235 S. Michigan St. !83-1000 Dial Phone Appetit, 674-0900 Category 8466 for more info 

. Location: East Lansing, Mich.  . Michigan State deleated the Irish  
. Enrollment: 43,189  the past two seasons.  
. Colors: Green and white  . Notre Dame has only played three  
. Nickname: Spartans  teams more often than the Spartans.  
. Conference: Big Ten  . The Spartans blocked an Irish  
. Fight Song: "Michigan State  punt last season and returned it for a  

College March" touchdown. 

MICHIGAN STATE REVIEW 
Spartans open with wins over Eagles, Ducks 
Associated Press 
Bill Burke passed for two touchdowns and Michigan State held Eastern Michigan to 130 yards in beating the Eagles 51-7 on Saturday. 
On the second possession of the game for Michigan State (2-0). Burke hit tight end Chris Baker for a 17-yard touchdown, then added a 25-yarder to flanker Gari Scott. 
Michigan State rolled to a 41-0 lead by halftime and was already making use of substitutes. Michigan State had 197 passing yards in the first half and forced Eastern Michigan (1-0} into 10 punts. 
The Eagles didn't cross midfield until the fourth quarter, when Walter Church's 30-yard pass to Jermaine Sheffield accounted for the only Eastern Michigan touch­down. 
Freshman tailback T.J. Duckett scored his first touchdown on a 4-yard run, fullback Dawan Moss scored on a 42-yard run and Lorenzo Guess returned an inter­ception 39 yards for a Michigan State score. 
Paul Edinger kicked field goals of 32, 49 and 51 yards. 
Michigan State 27. Oregon 20 
Amp Campbell's prayers were answered, and Michigan State came out a winner. Campbell, who broke his neck in a loss to Oregon last season, returned a fumble 85 yards in the fourth quarter, lifting the Spartans to a 27-20 payback victory over the Ducks. 
"It felt great," said Campbell, a sixth-year senior who had to graduate over the summer in order to return and attempt to earn back his cornerback slot. "I couldn't ask for a better night than tonight." 
The Spartans, who trailed 17 -7 
-

in the opener for both teams, came back with 1 7 unanswered points, taking a 24-17 lead on Campbell's return of Herman Ho­Ching's fumble. Linebacker Julian Peterson set up the return by stripping the ball from Ho­Ching. 
"I came out in the first half and played a little sluggish and I went back in the locker room and prayed and God answered my prayers again," Campbell said. 
The ·game marked the return for Campbell, who fractured his sixth and seventh vertebrae while attempting a tackle on Oregon's second touchdown of a 48-14 rout last season. 
Ile required spinal fusion surgery that night. 
"If I didn't even score tonight or get an interception or anything, the only thing r wanted was the W," Campbell said. ''This is a dream come true. Right now, I say if I wouldn't have graduated, God knows what I'd be doing. Thank God I graduated and got the opportunity to be play again and be part of this football team. 
"I feel like a little kid again because everything is going right for me and I'm just so glad." 
Even the opponents went away impressed. 
I ' 
I. l' 

page 6 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 17, 1999 
Irish experts 

Brian Kessler Sports Editor 
(9-3) 
NOTRE DAME FLORIDA MIAMI FLORIDA STATE 

Bill Hart associate editor 
(9-3) 
NOTRE DAME TENNESSEE 
PENN STATE 
FLORIDA STATE 

Mike Connolly 
associate editor 
(8-4) 

-
NOTRE DAME TENNESSEE 
PENN STATE 
FLORIDA STATE 

Tim Casey 
football writer 
(8-4) 
NOTRE DAME FLORIDA PENN STATE FLORIDA STATE 
AROUND THE NATION 

Florida takes on Tennessee in the Swamp 

By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Florida fully expects to get its revenge on defending national champion Tennessee as the Volunteers come into the Swamp this weekend. 
Last year, Tennessee defeated Florida in Tennessee 20-17 in overtime on its way to an undefeated season. However. the Gators committed five turnovers in that game. 
It will be a battle between a team with a 14-game winning streak (Tennessee) and one with a 29-game home winning streak (Florida). 
One of those records will fall this week­end, and the trash talk corning from both sides indicates the importance of this game. 
Neither team has faced a challenging opponent yet this season. The Volunteers defeated Wyoming 42-17 in their season opener, while tho Gators have rlefoated Western Michigan and Central Florida by about 30 points each. 
Tennessee returns 14 starters from its 1998 title-winning team, including quar­terback Tee Martin and tailback Jamal Lewis. Lewis is returning from knee surgery. He scored three touchdowns in Tennessee's opener, but also had two fumbles, leaving reason to worry. 
The Volunteers also have a formidable defense, totaling a record 13 sacks against Wyoming. 
Florida-has not showed all its potential in the season's first two games, allowing Central Florida to get 379 passing yards and Western Michigan to pass for 405 yards. 
However, coach Steve Spurrier says that part of that is because the Gators were not giving everything they had, instead holding back certain plays and players. 
The Gators have a number of new starters on defense, but return a talented offensive crew which rushed for 289 yards in the opener. 
With motivation acting as a strong revenge factor for Tennessee, it will have to overcome the fact that it has not won at Florida since 1971. 
No. 3 Penn State at No. 8 Miami 
In the third time this decade that Penn State and Miami have faced each other 
photo courtesy of Tennessee sports information 

Tennessee quarterback Tee Martin leads the Volunteers into the Swamp to take on 
Aorida in an SEC showdown. 
as top-ten opponents, it should be another exciting match-up. Both top-ten face-offs earlier in the '90s were won by Miami with margins of a touchdown or less. 
Penn State was widely regarded as one of the top teams in college football at season's start, but nearly ended all hopes of a national championship last week, barely holding off unranked Pittsburgh for a 20-17 win after handily beating its first two opponents.. 
Miami, meanwhile, dominated its first two games, beating Ohio State 23-12 and Florida A & M 57-3. 
The play of Penn State quarterback Kevin Thompson had its ups and downs last season, but he showed composure 
against Pittsburgh Saturday by leading the Nittany Lions 77 yards downfield for the final score of the game. 
Under head coach Joe Paterno, Penn State has achieved considerable success. This year, its defense is particularly solid, including linebackers LaVar Arrington, Brandon Smith and Mac Morrison. 
Miami's offense, usually known for its speed, features quarterback Ken Kelly and running back James Jackson. However, the Hurricanes will miss Najeh Davenport, who injured his knee against Ohio State. 
The Hurricanes have fought with their namesake this week, struggling to get in practice time despite the impact of Hurricane Floyd in the area. 
No. 20 North Carolina State at No. 1 Florida State 
Florida State has perhaps the deepest squad in the nation lined up ta reverse last year's outcome, a 24-7 loss to North Carolina State. 
The Seminoles, beneath coach Bobby Bowden, easily won its season opener vs. Louisiana Tech 41-7, but had to put up a strong fight to beat Georgia Tech last week 41-35. Florida State gave up 501 offensive yards to Georgia Tech, the most by any Atlantic Coast Conference team against FSU in 57 games. 
The Seminoles' defense is only ranked 81st in the nation right now, after being No. 1 last season. 
However, on offense, Florida State has a large number of players which can con­tribute, including an experienced quar­terback Chris Wcinke, all-American wide receiver Peter Warrick, and several play­ers returning to action for the first time this season -tailback Davy Ford and wide receiver Marvin Minnis. 
N.C. State intercepted six passes against the Seminoles, thanks to an exceptional game by its secondary. 
It has a quick defense which has not allowed an opponent to score a touch­down since the first half of its season­opening win over Texas. 
On the other hand, the Wolfpack will be missing graduated senior Torry Holt, who 

was an all-American wide receiver last season. They also must go into the 
Kansas at Colorado ..........3:30 p.m., ABC Wake Forest at Virginia........ 7 p.m., ESPN 
Seminoles' home stadium to win. The Wolfpack is 3-0 this season, with 
_,. around 
N.C. St. at Florida St... ...3:30 p.m., ESPN San Diego St. at usc........3:30 p.m., ABC 
wins over Texas, South Carolina and William & Mary.
Auburn at LSU................... 5 p.m., ESPN W. Virginia at Maryland .. 12 p.m., ESPN2
the dial 
Friday, Seprem~er 17, 1999 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 7 
the inside 
edge  
•  records: 1-2 A.P. rank: No. 24 coach's poll: NR  
s·  records: 2-0 A.P. rank: NR coach's poll: NR  

The Series 

Notre Dame leads 
41-20-1 
quarterbacks: Mihigan 
State's Burke passed 
for a school record 
EVEN 2 .595 yards last year. but Jackson can run and pass. 
running backs: Both 
teams lost thefr top 
• 
rushers to graduation, but young Irish back.,;; like Fisher and Driver have improved big-time. 
receivers: Burress and Scott are a potent duo 
5 
for the Spartans. The Irish have four oftheir flue best receir,ers back 
offensive line: This is not Michigan State's !ttrong 
EVEN 
point: however, Notre Dame has only one returning starter in Merandi. 
defensive line: Notre 

• 
Dame and Michigan State both return strong veteran units. The Irish should have the edge with Bryant and Williams. 
linebackers: Michigan State's linebackers pro­vide the core ofa defense which was . among the best in the nation last year. Notre Dame is relatively young at this position. 
secondary: Notre Dame's 
Sanders and Cooper kept 
., 
Brees under control 

against Purdue, and 
haTJe been key for the Irish all year. The Spartans are led by senior safety Morris. 
spe.cial teams: Michigan State has two All-Americans in kicker Edinger and punter Jarrett. Notre Dame is extremely weak,on kicking and can't match up with the Spartans here . 
coaching: Davie and Saban have been incon­sistent. Notre Dame's poor time management 
EVEN 

has contributed largely to its two losses. As up and down as the Spartan coaching has been, it beat the Irish the past two years. 
intangibles: The blue and gold are playing on their home turf with a 10­
• game winning streak. and seek to make up for losses the past two years against Michigan State. 
-
•Overall If the Irish can learn how to play the clock, they should be able to earn a victory over the Spartans. Key factors will be keeping Michigan State's aerial attack under control, and hold-Ing onto the ball on offense. 
........ 

IRISH EXCHANGE 

The Irish held an unusual Sunday practice last week after the Purdue loss. 
After a second-straight game in which the Irish were a few yards away from being win­ners, a the practice gave Bob Davie a chance to refocus his team. 
A chance to break from the emotional roller­coastnr that the trips to Michigan and 
,,urdue turned out to bfl is exactly what the Irish need. No Irish fan can help but dwell on the near wins. 
Afterall, a 3-0 Nolre Dame ttmm could have certainly pro­pRlled them into the top 5 in the rankings. 
But a Sunday practice and a look at the rest of the 1999 schedule might be exactly what the tnams nnnds at this point. If 11 national championship is tlw only goal you think the Irish 

had for this year, then yes, 
Davie should have taken 
Sunday off and sit out the 
remaining . 
nine games. In reality, the season is still young and full of teams looking to steal one from the Irish. 
Yes, that's right. the roller­coaster could get much worse before the season is over. There aren't any "sure wins" on tne schedule, and teams like Michigan State, Arizona State, USC, Pittsburgh -who almost beat Penn State last weekend at Happy Valley -are teams hop­ing to use a win against the Irish as a springboard into the rankings. That is, if the Irish remain in the top 25 by the time opponents face them. 
So, to answer all of those Irish fans who don't think they could feel any worse -after all, a national championship was the goal just two weeks ago -things could get a lot worse. Hence the need for Davie to .shake things up and cahri and focus the team. 
The same schedule that could finish off the Irish r,ould also serve to correct the mistakes and givo '.'liotrc Dame a respectable finish. 
Of course, it all starts this. weekend at home, a place where the Irish have felt com­fortable in the past few sea­sons. Riding a 10-game home win streak, facing Michigan State in the game to turn around the Irish is almost too ironic of a situation. 
It was just last season that the Irish rode into East Lansing, Mich., a week after upsetting the Wolverines. Heading into that game with two upsetting losses, the Spartans were out to break their own streak, and they humiliated the Irish from start to finish in a 45-23 win. 
A good football team should come out of a situation like that of Notre Dame's past two games with a refocused attitude and the reassurance that a team like Michigan State can be beat. 
But then again, not many teams can say that seconds on clock and inches on the field lost them back-to-back games that would have ranked them among the elite. 
The lliws expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Ohserver. 

Spartans face first test ofseason in Irish 
Spartan tailback Dawan Moss had never even touched the football in a game, and suddenly he was chugging 42 yards for a touchdown. 
It was 
that kind Charles 
of day 
Robinson 
for 

Eastern Michigan. State News The Sports Writer laugh­able 51-7 MSU win proved little for the Spartans, except that their reserves do have a pulse. 
Other than experience for nonstarters, what can you take away from a game like this? Well, let's see. 
Eagles quarterback Walt Church should invest in a health-care plan and some Tylenol the next time he faces a team that isn't in the Mid­American Conference. His offensive linemen were as effective as a screen door at stopping the pass rush, and his receivers were caked in Spartan defensive backs from the start. 
Despite being considered a dangerous offense, the Eagles finished the game with a ineager 130 total yards. 
Somebody should send out a search party, because the dangerous persona vanished somewhere between warm­ups and the opening kickoff. The Eagles got past their own 44-yard line once, sea.ring a touchdown early in the fourth quarter. Other than that drive, little went right, even on special teams. 
In a play typical of their day, kick returner Lincoln Dupree's shoe fell off as he ran out of the end zone. 

Maybe Dupree should take a page from the Eagle Defense, which spent the day being tied in knots. For lack of anything else, the Spartans walked away with added experience on the depth chart. Nearly everyone played, and the team afford­ably showcased T.J. Duckett at tailback. 
Unfortunately, the gained experience might cost the Spartans in the long run. Backup quarterback Ryan Van Dyke sprained his ankle late in the second quarter. 
After attempting a pass, 
Van Dyke had his ankle twist­
ed underneath him. He 
writhed in pain before limp­
ing off under the aid of train­
ers. Saban said X-rays were 
negative but couldn't assess 
the severity of the injury. 
"We really wanted to play 
Ryan for a good portion of 
time there to get him some 
playing time," Saban said. 
"That (injury) kind of threw 
us off. I don't know when 
he'll be back." 
A measuring stick Van Dyke's injury aside, the game really isn't much of a barom­eter on the Spartans' remain­ing schedule. Man for man, the Eagles were beaten before the first snap. 
But even Saban admitted the dominance meant little. You can't beat the crap out of the neighborhood weakling and think you're ready to take on the bullies of the world. 
"I don't think what we've accomplished to this point actually proves how good we are," Saban said. "It just proves that we have to get better. "I don't know how good we are." 
Actually, I think I know how good the Spartans are. They're good enough to beat a decent PAC 10 team in the Oregon Ducks and good enough to tattoo 51 points on a crummy MAC squad. 
Neither measures up to future Spartan foes Michigan, Wisconsin, Purdue, Penn State and Ohio State. The season's first real test will come next week with a flail­ing Notre Dame team. 
The Irish aren't a team of phantom could-be and might­.. be players. 
After dropping their second straight game to Purdue. therR's no reason to believe the Irish arc ready to pack in the season. 
But just a word of advice to the Irish just in case the Spartans really are as good as they looked against the Eagles: Stock up on aspirin, double knot your cleats and watch out for Moss. 
The views epessed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those qf The Observer. 

-r--·---·_,___.._.._______~--------·-----------·-----­
---------------, 
I 
'I 
page 8 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, September I 7, 1999 
-


Domino's Delivery 271-0300 
® 
Store Hours: 
Sunday -Thursday 

Good Luck Against The 
11 am -2 am 

Spartans! 
Friday & Saturday 11 am -3 am 







• DOWNTOWN JUST ONE MILE FROM N.D.• 31 SOUTH, LEFT ON COLFAX•
•
• 
•
• 
•
• 
•
• 
•

• 
WATCH ALL COLLEGE, •
• 
COME IN


• 
NFL, NBA, MLB, NHL ¦ •


FORA
•

• GAMES HERE ON OUR • ¦
BLUE N GOLD 

• 6 T'!'S & BIG SCREEN TV •
• 
•
•

• ¦
• ¦ ¦ 
• ¦
• CELEBRATE THE TRADITION OF THE IRISH AND THE BREWING 
•

• ¦
• HISTORY IN SOUTH BEND AT THE MOST SCENIC SITE IN TOWN ¦
• 

• -··-··-•• -• --·.-··-··-•• -·.-•• -·.-·.-•• -¦ ·-•• ­
• 

l FREE I •¦ 
• 282-BREW $20FF 
¦
•

• ! APPETIZER l 
• 
• l WITH PURCHASE l ON ANY ORDER • 
• ~) • 
;_ OF 2 ENTREES-j OF $ 1 0 OR MORE ¦
• ¦
l ONE COUPON PER PARTY ; ONE COUPON PER PARTY
• 
. ' ¦

• 
\ ··-··-·EXPIRES __12/30/99______) POOL TABLES -CIGAR LOUNGE -DARTS i_______EXPIRES_12/30/99______i 


•

• ¦ 
•¦ ¦• PROGRESSIVE AMERICAN CUISINE SERVING ¦ ¦ 
• 
•
•

• LUNCH, .DINNER AND LATE NIGHT MENU ¦
• ¦ 
• • ¦
• IRlSH MUSIC JAM SESSION 1ST & 3RD TUESDAY EACH MONTH 
¦ • 
I • 
•

• •¦ 
• COLLEGE NIGHT .. BANDS W'EDNESDAYS •
•
• 
•
•

• OPEN MON ... SAT @ 1 1 :30, SUN @ NOON .. BEST BANQUET ROOMS IN TOWN • 
• 300 E. COLFAX A VENUE SOUTH BEND
• • ...•..............................................................,••• 
. 

.. ' I
, 




