
LOOl<ING FOR NEW MUSIC?
Will he run? 
Wednesday

¦ Read The:: Observer's four album reviews.
¦ Texas governor George Bush has formed a 
presidential exploratory committee. 
MARCH 3, 

News•7 
Scene• 12-13 
1999 

THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 101 WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 

ND unveils program to monitor licensee factories 
ByTlM LOGAN A~~oli,nc N,·w~ i·.ditor 
In an altPrnpt lo <'llsun• complianc,• with anli-sw1•atshop provisions in Nntrc l>anw's licPnsing codP ol' conduct, the UniVPrsily annm11H:nd lhal it will hire an ar1·011nting firm to monitor f'acl.orins worlclwiclP whnn• Notrn Damn clothing is 111adf'. 
This incl1•1wnclPnl anti-sw<'alshop ini­LiatiVI' will lw a<·«·ompani1icl by llw crn­at1011 of' an on-rHlll[HIS Lask f'orcP lo addrPss thP isslll' ol' S\\l'H l­
s hop lahor itlld llll' 
'ITSOVER-ARCHING GOAL 
U11ivPrsi1v·s 
IS TO COME TO TERMS
rPsponsihili­1iPs lo inl'orm 
WITH AND EXPLORE THE thP puhlir 
MOST DlFFICVLT ASPECTS OF 
ahou( f'adori«'s and prPv«'nl THE SWEATSHOP ISSUE, a h ll s P . 
THINGS LIKE THE LIVING 
Adm i11istrntors say Ilws«· sl t' ps will put n1on• WPighl lll'hind 1hP f'Xisting 1·nd1• ol' 1·1111­fllll'I, which was written in I1J1J7. 
"WP wnrP l'Pady to movn from having a rndP [fl having indPpnndnnl monitor­ing lo nnsurn tlw r.odn is b1\ing followed on tlw ground in tlrn factories," said William Iloyn. associal<' vice pr<'sidnnt mrd <·ou11sl'I for 1.lw Vnivnrsity and chair 111' thP swPatshop task force. 
UndPr llw 1ww initiative, the account­i11 g firm of' l'ric11wal<•rhouse Coopers will b,i t·11ntrafl1•cl to conduct random spot inspections of' factories. The l'irm will also inspncl f'aclorins where allegnd alrnscs havP bt•nn rnportnd. II' violations of thn cod!' ar11 discovered, the Uniwrsity will decide wheth1ir to termi­nate its rolalionship with lhti factory or prcssurn it to improve conditions. 
"If' thllrn arc egregious violations or our cod11 of' conduct. we'll ask them to lPrminate," lloyo said. "We have that in our contract." 
This monitoring is believed to be the f'irst such indnpnndont site-inspection program undertaken by an American coll<'ge or univnrsity. It will likely be unclnrway in tlrn nnxt f'nw months and \·viii cost Notre Damn $7:i,000. 
WAGE.' 

WtU.IA,'vl ilon, .W,FA'/'.~'I/Of' TA<;K 1:01/U:' (.1/t\/J/MAN 
This effort to put tneth into wlrnt was tlw nation's first licnnsing code or conduct is a move in the 
right direction,
said Father 0 I i v n r Williams, director of the Center !'or Ethics and 
H e I i g j o LI s 
Values in Bu'slness. "It's a grel1t 
first step," Im said. "We've had a won­derful code of conduct. but no provi­sions l'or monitoring. In this business, you al.Jsolutely have to verify." 
Williams noted that clothing manufac­turnrs like the ones that produce Notre Dame nwrchandisn are often those with labor codn violations. 
"The track record of' these companies is very poor," he said. "To have a code of conduct without verification is not worih thn paper it's printed on." 
The task force, which will include fac­ulty, administrators, students and staff members, will work on ensuring that 

Manufacturers of Notre Dame sweatshirts, t-shirts, caps and other merchandise -similar to that sold in the bookstore -will now face scrutiny under the University's new licensing 
contract. 
the code is enforced. One of the first steps will be to collect from the 230 licensees a list or all manufacturing sites. In some cases, these licensees have dozens of' subcontractors, compli­cating matters. This list will hn used to select sites at random for inspection, and may be released to the public as well. 
Tim task force will also discuss Notre 

Damn's position on a rangr of otlrnr labor rights issues. 
"Its over-arching goal is Lo comn to tf!rms with and exploro tlrn most diffi­cult aspects or the swPalshop issu11, things like the living wage, public dis­closure of licHnsed factorins and tho right to organize," lloye said. 
see WORKERS / page 4 
Study finds few SMC feminists 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY Sai111 M.1ry's News F.dirnr 
Saint Mary's stuc!Pnts are lwsilanl to id<'nlify tlwmsnlves as fominists. anti of'ton vinw f'nminism nngativ<'ly after sp(i111ling !'our ynars at Lhn CollngP, said Susan Aloxandcr, Saint Mary's assistant profes­sor of' sociology in a lm:turo hasPd 011 lwr IIJ1'4 rnsuarch. 
.'\l1•xa1Hlnr l'irsl nxplairrnd that f'nmi11ist sociologists assum!' fominists work to transform social institutions to irnprovt~ wmnpn's social status IJPrausP soda! structure, not biology, forces mnn and wonwn inlo tmnqual positions in sod1ity. 
hrn1inists also work to link tlw soci a I a ncl po I i ti caI , /\lnxam!Pr rnportml. 
"F,•minists havn to make a pnrsonaI commitment to over­i:oming irwquality," she said. "Crnating social changn can't happPn solely through individ­ual nfforts. Feminism is a way of thinking and acting." 
Soon after arriving at Saint Mary's, Alexanclnr realized 
that, "this is not how students at Saint Mary's p(m:eive femi­
nism." 

In rosponsn, slw conducted a survny in 11)94 to discorn 
'WETHOUGHT IF 
ANYTHING, SAINT 
MARY'S WOULD BE PRO­
MOTING FEMINISM AND 
WHAT WE WERE LEFT ASK· 
ING WAS IF SAINT MARY'S 
WAS PROMOTING A NEGA­
TIVE VIEW OF FEMINISM.' 
Sc 1Sr1N ALEXANDHI/ 
!\SST. l'l/OFHSSOI/ OF SO<.WWGY 
stud1rnt vinws on fnminism, dilTerencns between seniors' and freshmen's perceptions or fominism and how students identify with feminism. 
.'\lexancler hypothosized that if a women's college like Saint Mary's promotes women's issues, students should have a 
viablo unden:tanding or femi­nism. 
She found that surveyed stu­dents fell into four categories. Some held mixed views of l'eminism. others had a point­edly positive or nogative view. while others, labeled "ambiguous," claimed not to know the moaning of the term "feminism." 
Alexander found that 13 percent of students surveynd held a mixed view. One stu­dent in this category del1ned a feminist as someone who stood up for her rights, while another student said she would not define herself as a feminist to men bncause she was not extreme. 
Thirty percont held a posi­tive vinw ol' feminism and indicated that a f'cminist is "confident" in twrsr,Jf. 
About 33 percent held a negativn view or feminism. Students in this group the behavior of feminists as "always fighting. fighting . lighting." They said a leminist 
see FEMINISTS / page 4 
¦ GRADUATE STUDENT UNION 
Council plans for urn on BOT decisions 
By BRAD UNTIEDT 
News Writer 

After heavy debate, the Graduate Studont Union Council (GSUCl dr.cidr.d against passing a formal rnso­lution denouncing the Board of Trustees' Fel.J. 5 decision f.n not include sexual orientation in the Univnrsity's non-dis­crimination clause. 
The group will instead hold an open forum on the mattnr. specifically inviting members of the Board of Trustees and the Board of Fellows and making them aware of' tlrn council's disapproval of' tho der,ision. 
"We want to make the administration more ar.count­able and establish a public forum so it could be more of a democracy and more voices and opinions could be heard," said GSUC president Marybeth Graham. 
"This will allow us to voice our disapproval or thn Board of' Trusteos for the way that they made tlrn Univnrsity aware or thn final decision," Graham said. 
GSUC member Cathluen McMahon expressocl similar disapproval. 
"Wn want to tnll the Board or Trustnns that wn am vury displeased with thPir dPcision and actions," McMahon said. "This is something that is important and sonrnthing that WP. have to pursue.'' 
The group decided to forego passing a prepared resolution but plans to makl' a formal movf\ al'ter the forum. Tim resolution will sent to m<'m­bors or the Board or Trusll\(lS and Board of Fellows. 
"We all know that they probably won't respond," said Graham. "This will at !Hast make them aware or what we 
see GSU I page 4 

page 2 The Observer• INSIDE Wednesday, March 3, 1999 
¦ INSIOf COLUMN 



Star gazing 

There once was a village where the people celebrated the light of' the sun by day and waited l'or its return by night. 
Whon night came, tho pPoplo closed their eyes and wait()d for the emerging fire of clay, embracPd bv tlw velvet blanket of darkness that fell upon them each evening. Thoy lamented the departure of the sun, praying every night for its return. 
One day, ono of the 

Noreen Gillespie
villagers declared that 

Copy Editor he was going to make night dissappear. I-le climbed up on a ladder, with a hammer in one hand and a nail in the other, andpound­ed away at the sky, making peepholes with his hammer and nai.1. He made a miracle. To the villager's surprise, the man had cre­ated light. With each little peephole punched in the sky, night became a beautiful event. As light peered through each peephole, speckling the ground bdow with the rays of the hidden sun, the villagers danced and sang and cele­bratf'd the return of light. And they no longer waited for day. There's something about the comfort of night that is rejuvinating; something about a star-speckled sky that can put everything in perfect order. Perhaps it is the fact that you can look above at the galaxy, so far away, and realize that the stars look smaller than you arc. And you feel important. I stood beneath the stars a few nights ago, side-by-side with my best friend, and let the wind whip through my jacket and bring icy tears to my eyes. I stood beneath the stars, saw how distant they were and felt important. I only see my best friend twice a year. By any conventional means of social standards, we shouldn't be friends; she is two years older than I and lives over 600 miles away. We define the saying "opposites attract" to a pin­point: She's crazy and I'm conservative; she listens to hip-hop when I play my jazz; her life is like a soap opera while mine is about as predictable as the next page in a boring book. But when you're awed by a galaxy above you, you realize these things aren't important. What is important is the little things: We both sing in the car, are incurable slobs, and require second jobs to pay for our outlandish phone bills. What is important is that even though the differences that separate us are about as large as the galaxy above us, she'll always understand me better than anyone I'll ever meet. I laughed as we sat there and talked about the past and about the future. We talked about how our dreams had changed, and that we'd suddenly realized there was no little man on a ladder who pounded holes in the sky to make stars. Ironically, we were standing in front of the world's largest man made star; the focal point of the city of Roanoke, Va. that is the modern cure to night; an electric star that stands above the city, and illuminates three counties below. But even though it was so much larger than the natural stars, its vastness couldn't scare me. Standing above the city, looking at match­box sized cars running around on the high­ways below, I realized something. No matter how big the star was, and no mat­ter how tiny we were in its presence, we were still important.. We were important to each other. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
¦ TooAv'S STAFF 


News Scene 
Derek Bercher Mike Vanegas 
Noreen Gillespie 

Graphics 
Josh Bourgeois 
Pete Cillela 


Sports 
Lab Tech. 
Noah Amscadrer 
Joe Stark Viewpoint Colleen Gaughen 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during cx:im and vacation periods. The Observer is :t member of the Associated Pres,. All n:prod1.1ction righr.s ar{" reserved. 




utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Letter urges university to adopt anti-sweatshop code 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. drastic action. 
In the wake of sit-ins at other col­"There's a faculty meeting on leges and increased anger at the lack [March 91 and we've taken note of of progess in negotiations with the that," said l'SLM member Bflnjamin University, members of the Progressive McKean. Student Labor Movement {PSLMJ sent Shuldiner suid sit-ins have alrnady a letter to university prnsident Neil proven eflhctive at Duke, GHorgetown, Rudenstine Thursday demanding that and the Univcrsitv of Wisconsin at the school adopt an anti-sweatshop Madison, whcrn pr.otosturs IHnn won codr ol' conduct concessions from the schools. 
"We've basically given the Ivy presi­'Those universities were taken ovnr dents an ultimatum with that letter," by _their students, but within three 
Members said they are taking their
said PSLM member Daniel Hennefeld days of tlw takeovers, all thrne of thosn 
demands directly to Hudenstine
The letter, which was sent to the universities hawi signed codes of' con­
because other efforts to negotiate with
presidents of all the Ivy League duct or letters saying they will,"hc
the University have failed. 
schools, asks tlrn srhools to revise their said. 
"We feel betrayed and we feel left
labor code so that manufacturers are But Harvard Lniversity is making no 
out," said PSLM member Benjamin
required to disclose the location of promises rngarding the demands. 
Shuldiner. "After negotiating, after a
their factories aml non-governmental "This particular letter raisos a m11n ­
year of this, we need to go to the presi­
organizations inspect work conditions. ber of issues that I think [Hudenstinel
dent."
The letter also demands that the uni­will want to respond to or havo mci 
Members suggest that if Hudenstine 
versities allow students to participate respond to," said ,\!Ian TTyan, an attor­
does not respond to their demands by
in the implementation of a labor code ney in the university's Offic<i of thn 
March 8, they may consider more
and calls on the schools to study the General Counsrl. 
¦ UNIVERSirY OF WlSCONS!N  ¦ UNIVERSITY OF fviASSAClilJSHTS  
Faculty abolishes speech code  Police prevent suicide in dormitory  
MADISON, Wisc.  AMHE!lST, Mass.  
"It's just a great day for freedom." So said U.Wisconsin­ Police, responding to a report of a disturbance in  
Madison faculty senator Lester Hunt, following a Faculty  University of Massachusetts Brown Residence llall Sunday  
Senate vote to become the first university in the country  morning, ended up rescuing an individual who attempted to  
to, by its own free will, essentially abolish its speech code.  commit suicide after nearly strangling his girlfriend.  
In a historic 71-62 vote, the Faculty Senate approved leg­ According to Barbara O'Connor. deputy chief or the  
islation Monday, which will, according to senators, go into  University of Massachusetts Police Department, police  
effect immediately and allow "all members of the universi­ arrived on the scene at 6:39 a.m. They were met by housing  
ty to express openly their ideas and opinions." After an ad  staff and directed to the fifth floor. The ollicers observed a  
hoc committee spent 17 months studying speech-code  crying female with scratches on her face enter the elevator.  
options and a final two-hour meeting of debate and  They then heard yelling, and observed two malPs struggling  
amendment, the senate finally approved the code, which  on the floor of a fifth-floor room. One male, later identified  
reads in part, "accordingly, all expression germane to the  as Francisco Rivera. freed himself' and attempted to dive  
instructional setting ­including, but not limited to, infor­ through the window. The window shattered and the police  
mation, the presentation or advocacy of ideas. assignment  grabbed Rivera's torso as he dangl!id, more than three quar­ 
of course materials and teaching techniques ­is protect­ ters out the window. Rivera continued to struggle and  
ed from disciplinary action."  attempted to jump.  
¦ OHIO UNIVERS!TY  ¦ DARTMOUTH COLLEGE  
Sibs weekend results in assault  Initiative may lead to court battle  
ATHENS, Ohio  HANOVEH,N.11.  
A 14-year-old and a 17-year-old who said they were  If observers are correct and implementation of the Board of'  
sexually assaulted while visiting Ohio University during  Trustees' initiative leads to court battles between the college  
the February 1998 Sibs' Weekend have filed suit against  and Greek nrganizations refusing to sell their houses, the  
the university for negligence and failing to provide a  arguments are likely to focus onlegal issues. While· Greek  
safe environment. The girls, cousins from Miamisburg  members 111ight argue the college is interfering with tlrnir  
and Mason, and their parents asked for at least $75,000  First Amendment rights of assembly and association or that  
from each OU; Travis McIntyre, the man charged in the  Dartmouth is violating anti-lrust laws if it prevents students  
incident; and his parents. The suit was filed Feb. 11 in  from registering who reside in certain houses, those argu­ 
the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Ohio.  ments are dillicult to prove sinm the College is a private insti­ 
According to the complaints, "Ohio University had a  tution. Although there is certainly no guarantee the Trustees'  
duty to provide and ensure an environment for the  controversial initiative will bring Dartmouth organizations  
[girls) free of sexual innuendo, intimidation and [dis­ into the courtroom, with no national precedent clearly exist­ 
crimination I and to enforce the regulations, rules and  ing in favor of either side, it is unclear how any case would  
laws necessary to protect the [girls] from acts of sexual  be decided. Despite discussion amongst the members of most  
abuse." The girls came to visit the 14-year-old's sister,  organizations, the majority of houses have decided to wait  


an OU sophomore. 
¦ Sourn Brno Wrnrnrn 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

AccuWeatherfltforecast for daytime 1.:onditions and high te~~t~~·-· 

;H L 

4,~-~4.~8(t mu 
Showers T•storms Aain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Assoeiatltd Press Graph1csN6t 
until the Trustees make a morn specific list of intentions. 
¦ NATIONAL V\JEATHER 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, Mar. 3. 

Pre••ur.; ® © . High Low Showers Via, Associared Press  c:J Ratn  c:::J T4torm1  . Plurrlel  . Snow  ~ Ice  0 Sunny  :Pt. Cloudy  Cloudy  
Atlanta Baltimore Boston Chicago Cleveland  57 59 47 34 37  51 40 32 29 33  Dallas Denver Hartford Indianapolis Louisville  62 69 47 33 37  40 27 28 31 36  Madison Miami Minneapolis New York Santa Fe  35 81 32 52 66  22 70 19 39 29  

Wednesday, March 3, 1999 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
¦ BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 

Group receives expense update 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY 1'1111d tlrn studnnt govnrnmcnt C()rn oil campus. ~.1i11r Mary's News Editor budgol. "As young ladi()s, you might Dick Chldwk, clirnctor ol' Saint Im more apprnhonsivo to walk 
An upclatP of' PXJ)Pllcliturl'S Mary's Socurity, also adclrnsiwd in some areas on campus than I and a visit f'rom tlw cliroc:tor or tlw hoard Tu()sclay, raising con­would lwcausc they am dark," Sainl Mary's Sor.urit.y highlight­corns about campus security. said Chlobek. Pel Tunsday's Board of !IP suggPstnd that tlrn board If' the board works with ( ;ovnrnanni (BO(;) mnPting. com hi ne r11 com nm nd a ti ons Socurity to submit safoty rncom­
.\n11P MariP Hodw, (\X1•cuti\11 l'rom thn Porl'orma consulting menda tions, thPr<' is a good [l'f'HSllr<'r, prPSt'llt(•d a ('lllTlllll group wilh ideas f'rorn students chancn tlrnso recommendations hudg<H r,q,nrt df'lailing th<' and Saint Marv's Sncurity to will Im addrcssnd and possibly a11101111L spnnt hy !lw lioui-d so prnsent to thn aclmi11islratio;1. implemcntml, Chlebek said. rar this yPar and tlw amount C:hl(dwk submitt.ed a list of "We hav() an administration f'1'11laini1ig f'r,r thP rnsl or llw sncurity and safoty improve-now that is willing to listen to ynar. 111rrnts for board mnmlwrs lo recommendations and that may 
Ilaving spPnt $102,514.:!7 of rnviPw and amnnd. Suggnstions be interested in implPmenting tlw I<J1J8-I<J<J<J budgnt, BO(; is includnd incrnasncl lighting on som() of these recommenda­Jpf't with $2:{.(152.(1] Lo l'inish campus as well as sidewalks in tions," said Chlebek. out tlw ynar. tho circle outsidn lloly Cross Board members will join 
"I rm·11111111mHI trying to ltavo llall and along thn road that Chlnbek for a campus safety al !Past $5,000 rnmai11i11g for ru 11s bdween lloly Cross llall walk on March 16. startup costs ror tlrn rww and tlrn s(icuriLy huilrling to hoard," l!odH• told tlw group. Hngina I tall. In other BOG news: 
l'hl' hoard had a larg!ir "Hight now, with 110 foliage Oil • Athlr.tic commissioner Cindv ammrnt of' 11wnnv to work with tlrn trees, it looks as though the Traub rr.port<id that the pep than usual this ynar dtrn to campus is illuminated just fine," band was a success al the bas­i1H-rPasod i:nrollnwnt, c:xplaini:cl said Chlob(ik. llownvnr, Chlnbek ketball games and that three Sarah Sidnrt. studont body asked board members to Saint Mary's students prPsidPnl. accompany him 011 a campus approached her about continu-· 
llPcausf' a f'rw is assnssod in saf'nty walk aftor spring break ing the band's participation tuition costs, this incrnasn lwlps to address areas of' sal'ety con-1rnxt year. 
¦ SECURITY BEAT 
FRIDAY, FEB, 26 Saint Mary's College student to St. dents were issued.. University cita­

3:00 p.m. A University employee Joseph Medical Center for treat, tions for minor consumption of alco­
reported vandalism to a photograph ment of an ankle ln1ury. hol. . on display in !he Hesburgh Library. 11:15 p.m. A South Bend resident 7:00 p.m. A Dillon Hail resident 
10:07 p.m. An off-campus student was cited for exceeding the posted reported the· theft 6f a. CD player. , 
reported the theft of a coin purse speed limit on Edison Road. and books from ari unlocked and ·• ... from her jacket, which was in an unattended study room in the unlocked locker. SUNDAY, FEB,28 Hesburgh library. 
1:24 a.m. Security Issued a Knott 7:28 p.m. Security transported a SATURDAY, FEB. 27 Hall resident a University citation for Walsh Hall resident to St. Joseph 

7:50 p.m. Security transported a minor consumption of alcohol. Medical Center tor treafmeht of an 
2:37 a.m. Two Alumni Hall resi-illness. 



Debate team wins at Eliot invitational 
By SHANNON GRADY 
News Writer 
Entr.ring its 100th year on campus, tho Notrn Dame debate team has shown no evidence or aging. 
The team finished l'irst al the Eliot Invitational host()d by Washington Univ1wsity in St. Louis by winning th() parlia­mentary d(ibato and impromp­tu spe a k ing ti tIo s a n cl tlrn sweepstakes overall. The sophomore duo of Priscilla Clements and Katn Iluetteman won the tournament's show­case event -the individual debate competition. 
Overall, tho team posted a record of 6-2. 
"The final round was magi­cal," Clnmcnts said. "I'm just tickled pink that we won. At Notre name we are about championships in all areas. If debate can acid to that reputa­tion -even a littl() bit -then all ol' Notrn Dame wins." 
The J\otre Dame debate team scorr.cl 90 overall points, 40 points ahead of' the second place team at the Feb. 12-14 evont. This is the team's sec­ond first-placo finish this ymtr after capturing the title at tho College of DuPagP. last month. 
Chris Huck, a Notre Damn law student and coach of ttrn tram, said he is "immensely proud of' these kids. 
"This victory, coupled with last month's triumph at 
Dul'agn, is just a trnnrnndnus 
nrnssagn to tlw rngion. This 
was .an oven higgnr tourna­
mnnt than last limn," !luck 
said. 
Iluck addncl that tlrnse tour­
naments am good praclicn for 
tlrn national lot1rname11ts thal 
will lw hPld latlir in tlrn year. 
Th n success r<qH es 1: n Ls sonwthing of a turnaround for the tnam. Notrn Dame domi­nated debate in tlrn 1980s, hut the activity doclinod over tho ynars. Thanks to the team's young mombnrs, that trnnd seems to have boon nw()rsml. 
Ensuring participation is a key to snccnss, organizers said. The clnbatn tnam aclvor­tises during t\clivitins Night, and Huck I.nachos a debate class. Tim c·lass is o!T1ired sec­ond semnster and is listed undPr Film and Television. It is an informal class that counts toward activilins crnd­it. 
lluck said that anyonn can join the dnbafo t11am to learn how to beromn a lrnller public speaknr. No prior dnhating experience is 1rnednd. 
"The girl I consid(:r our lrns( debater did not dnlmte in high school," lluck noted. 
lln emphasized that dobal(i is a v:duablP skill and is useful in any profession. Tho dnbal<! team hopes to offer a show­case later in tho yoar to demonstrate tho specific 1\vnnts in which it participatns. 
Things to do before heading out.for spring break: 
I) Water plants (real well). 2) Stop by Meijers -load up on suntan lotion. 3/ Pick up application for HCA! 

Holy Cross Associates 

Raise your expectations!  
Placements at:  
Promoting growth in:  -Phoenix, AZ  
-Service  -Hayward (Bay Area), CA  
-Simple Lifestyle -Spirituality  -Colorado Springs, CO -Brockton (Boston area), MA -Portland, OR  
-Community Living  -Wilkes-Barre, PA  
-Others as we grow  

HCA is a year long lay volunteer program in six cities across the united States. Now in our 22nd year, and with 37 recent college grads, HCA is inviting individuals to apply for our '99/'00 program year. Interviews will be taking place in late March & early April. Applications can be picked up at the Center for Social Concerns, and at the Holy Cross Associate Office at Moreau. 
For More information, contact: 

Holy Cross Associates Phone:631-552 I Fax: 631-6813 PO Box 668, Notre Dame IN 46556 E-mail: nd.hcassoc. l@nd.edu http://www.nd.edu:80/-hcassoc/ 



page 4 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, March 3, 1999 
Workers 
continued from page 1 

The group has not yet been assembled, but University pres­ident Father Edward Malloy has sent invitations for mem­bership to peoplo at Notre Dame who aro knowledgeable about the issue. 
The issue of factory disclo­sun! is a provacativc one on campuses nationwide. Students at Duke, Harvard, tho University of Wisconsin­Madison and other srhools have pressured administrators lo adopt a more stringeut con­duct code requiring manuf'ac­turer compliance with higher labor standards. Their demands include factory disclo­sure and guaranteeing a living wage !'or workers, two issues which Notre Dame student activists hope to see Notre Dame include in its code as well. 
"It's definitely a step in the right direction, but -we would like to sen public disclosure," said Madolvn Orr, a member of the Progressive Student Alliance, who noted that if the list was released. human rights groups could also r:onduct fac­tory inspections. "It would help empower cnnsumrrs." 
The PS/\ will hold a teach-in on March 24 to educate mem­bers of the Notre Dame com­munity about sweatshop labor practices, Orr said. She antici­pates that this week's dovclop­mcnts will be included in the discussion. 
Notre Oanrn's move comes just bef'orn a plan by the Fair Labor Association, a non-prolit group started by the Apparel Industry Partnership, to crnate a centralized monitoring sys­tem for overseas sweatshop labor. That system is expected to be in place within a year. according to University offi­cials. When it is up and run­ning, Notre Dame plans to par­ticipate, and to cooperate with other universities in fair labor iniliativf1s. 
"We were among thn lirst tu take the sweatshop issue seri­ously," said Malloy in a written statoment. "/\nd we continue to seek ways to strengthen our code by improving accountabil­ity structures and by joining other universities seeking ways to more effoctively oppose inhumane workplace condi­tions." 
Notre Dame's cod!! of conduct for licensees requires that workers in licensed factories must bn "present al work vol­untarily, not at risk of physical harm, fairly compensated and not f!xploited in any way." 
lt does not mandate any min­imum or 1wen a "living" wage. Currently, workers must be paid in compliance with "all applicabln laws and lwagesl that match or oxceed the prn­
vailing local rnanuf'acturing ind ustry practic(!S." Ilowevor, institution of a living wage is one topic the task force plans on studying. 
OvHrall, administrators are plnasml with thP new policy. "I think it's terrific," lloyp said. · 


Temperatures fall, grain prices rise 
Baby wheat vulnerable to winter cold 
Associated Press 
Wheat futures jumped nearly four percent on the Chicago Board of Trade Tuesday, rally­ing for a second day as fore­casts for below-normal tem­peratures this weekend in major winter-wheat growing regions deepened concerns about crop damage. 
Corn and soybeans also advanced strongly. On other markets, cocoa tumbled to its lowest level in nearly three years, while crude gained. 
Wheat rallied as market par­ticipants not(id recent dryness in the Plains has left crops emerging from winter dorman­cy particularly vulnerable to just such a cold snap that is forncast to arrin! in the area by week's end. The National WBather ServicP and private forecasters arP falling l'or bdow to sharply-below normal tr,m peratures in areas that account for som1: 75 percent of the nation's total wheat pro­duction. 
Warmer wcatlrnr has helped some of the rrop emerge rarly from the ground, leaving a larger portion vulnerable to latn-s<mson frosts brcause of a lack of insulating ground cover. 
The gains WHre madr on the back of a sharp advance on Monday tied to an improved outlook -at least in thl~ near­term -for export business. Egypt over the weekend made a large purchase, while Pakistan was considering buy­ing about 300,000 metric tons from either the Cnited States, Australia or Canada. 
Corn and soybeans benefited from heavy fund house buying as investors rushed to cover positions following Monday's unr,xpcctedly strong rally. Soybeans advanced after the government reported export inspections jumped 14 per­cents last week, although mar­ket participants expected gains to be limited today on reports of increased exports from 
Brazil. 
In the meantime, dry weath­er in South /\merica and parts of South Africa could hinder late production, reducing over­all yields, analysts said. 
Wheat for May delivery rose nine cents to $2.63 3/4 a bushel; May corn rose 4 1/2 cents to $2.15 3/4 a bushel; .May soybeans rose 8 1/2 cents to $4.71 1/2 a bushel. 
Cocoa fell to its lowest in nearly three years on the Board of Trade of the City of New York amid few takers for r:rops arriving from Ivory Coast and Chana, the world's lat·gest producing countries. 
The peak consumption peri­od, in which chocolate makers buy cocoa to make their goods, is winding down as most com­plete Easter holiday produc­tion. The heavy buying season is not rxpPctcd to increase dra­matically until late summer, when manufacturers begin gearing up for Ilallownen candy-making. 
May cocoa fell $48 to $1,241 
a ton. 
Crude oil futures gained on the New York Mercantile Exchange amid speculation 
U.S. airslrikes on communica­tions centers in northern Iraq had damaged a key oil pipeline and delayed pumping. 

Interested in writing about campus news for The Observer? Come to our weekly news meetings at 5 p.m. Sundays in the SDH basement. 
MAKE HEALTHY CHOICES AND NOBODY GETS HURT 


!if{
.. ! I 
J !,
t-

You don·t have to be drunk to be impaired. 11 vou are driving, there is onlv one choice... 
NO ALCOHOL AT All. 
Never ride with a driver who has been drinking...lind a safe wav home. 
HAVE ASAFE SPRING BREAK. 
For information, contact Alcohol & Drug Education 311 LaFortune phone 631-7970 e-mail ND.aldrug.1@nd.edu 
l.rnhind the issue," lrn said. "It 
has to brcomc louder and
GSU 


Feminists 
continued from page 1 
has "short hair, stockv build, doesn't act cute or giggle and IH'ts weights." Thoso v\'ith an ambiguous view comprised the rest of surveyed students. 
Alexander found gap in feminist perceptions between rreshmen and seniors intriguing, shP said. 
or freshmen surveyed, 45 percent held a posi­tivP view. 25 percent a nngative vinw and the rest held and ambiguous or mixed view. Of seniors, only 12 percent said they held a positive view of feminism and 4:3 perC(\nt reported hold­ing a negative view. 
"The freshman had a far more positive under­standing of feminism," said Alexander. "That really thrPw us bark. We thought if anything, Saint Mary's would be promoting fominism and what we wel'C lPl't asking wa::. if' Saint Mary's was promoting a negative view of fmninism. 
"We can't sav that we know Saint Marv's con­tributes to this· negative view though bct:ause or othnr /'actors." shP s,licl. 
or stud,!nts surveyed. only one student identi­fied herself as a feminist while three identified themselves as non-feminists but did not qualify the classification. Sixty percent of' students named themselves as fominists but added quali­fying statements to the definition. 
These wonrnn id1)ntif'ied with something in feminism, but wern not willing to call tlwmsPlves feminists, Alexander explained. 

Many women did not want to be idrntilied as radicals, partially because they came from tradi­tional backgrounds and liked the "traditional" rok women held in soriety. Others said they would call themselves feminists but not in the company of men. 
"Theso poop le didn't want the label attached to them and the issue came up a lot about men not wanting to date women who are feminists," said Alexander. 
She added that she learned much from her research. 
"It made me realize that there arr an awful lot ol' misunderstandings on this campus of what feminism is. We all need to become better edu­cated about the different forms l'ominism can take," Alexander said. "We have to challenge feminist stereotypes the same way you would challenge a derogatory racial comment you heard sonrnonP make." 
She also recommended taking a closer and more carel'ul look at how the media perpetuate stereotypes of feminists. 
"These kinds of stereotypes that tlrn m(ldia perpetuate have a greal impacl OH perceptions of people we do not have much contari with ­lesbians, Latinas, African-Americans or femi­nists," said Alexander. "We have to start teach­ing media literacy and teaching people how to deconstruct what thev see in the media." 
To raise awareness of what feminism is, 
Alexander recommended women  "find  a  voice  
and take  a  stand to restructure views o n  femi­ 
nism."  

Board of Trustee's decision," council vire president David Fowle said. 
"The graduate school would havr, lrnnefited most rrom a 'yes' Big Ten vote," represen­tative Hobert llodriguez said. 
The next GSUC report to the Board of Trustees will include these issues as well as target conr-erns ahoul computer access. 
continued from page I 
want to do." 
l{cprcscntativc Scan Borman notr.1d thnt tlrn council nims to increase public knowledge of the issue. 
"Tlw iCSUCJ needs the stu­dent body to see that wo are 
louder until it eventually sinks in." 
ln other discussion, GSUC expressed its displnasurc with the Board or Truswe's deci­sion against joining the Big Ten. 
"The graduate school is very upset about the Big TPn and very disappointed with the 
iiii¥'..




Two Americans, six other tourists killed by rebels 
KAMPALA. Uganda 

Hwanda11 rPhl'ls kidnapped and slnugh­1,•rPd l'igh1 forpign tourists. including two t\nwril'ans. !11rni11g lheir gorilla-watching PXpPdilion into a for<·c\d march of terror ancl dPalh df'l'Jl in a rain f'orc•st. survivors and wiLllf'.SSf'S said Tt1f'1Hlay. Tlw ckad also inc-l11d1•cl 1'011r llritons and two N1•w /PalanclPrs. act'!1rding to diplomats. At IPasl a half' dozPll ollwr tourists survived tlw 11ighlmarislt ra1111rngc•. whirh began with rc•lwls sysl!•niatirally raiding campgrounds al a 11alio11al park. killing rangurs and rounding up f'orPignPrs "Thn rnlrnls wc>rl' looking for ,\111Pricans and British," said llussf'ill Kiv11111bi, nrnnagcq· ol' 01111 !If' l'ivH IPllif'd ,·amps at t.hP Bwindi lmpPnctrahh~ 1:or1·sh a11cl a survivor of' the attack . .. rlwv killl'cl four w11111Pn and four mnn with k11iv1:s. 111achf'tf's and axt•s." 
State Senate approves school takeover 
L/\NSINC. Mirhigan 

l/11dPr Light s1•rurity. thP state Senatn 011 Tuc·sday passPtl a hill allowing Dntroit's mayor Lo takl' owr tlw city's troubled schools f'rorn !lw dc>ctnd school board. Eight of' tlw S1•11atc•'s l!i l)(•mocrats joi1rnd all 22 i!(•puhlic·ans to pass thP hill :rn-7. It now g(ws to thl' 1 loust!, wlwrP talks am laking plan• lo makl' thP hill morP palatable lo l)ptroit n•sidl'nts. Stat,~ police kept watch at tl11• Capitol's l'ront Pnlrancc and usnd mntal dPt(•1·tor wands to scan visitors. Tlm handful of' nitirs who got in were quieted when tlrny hrokP into applaust! twice as opponents spohi. "It's a dear voter-rights issue. W11 do11'L wanl Lo opprnss pnople." said Pal West as slw waitl1(1 for a snat in the gallery. l'roposml by {,ov . .John Engler, the bill would authoriz,, Mayor Dennis Archer to replace Llw PIPrtPd srhonl board with a scven-mem­lwr "rC'l'orm hoard." 
Russian lawmakers seek end to Yeltsin/Duma feud 
MOSCOW 

A group ol' Hussian lawmakers proposed a political trun· Ttwsday that s<ieks to end tho t'.onslanl fPudi11g lwtwcPn l'rnsidnnt Boris Yl'!tsin's administration and the parliament. llowt•v('J', tho dral'l dornnwnt still facns sev­1•ral major ohstacles. II must be debated by tlw f'ull parlianwnt. wlwrt• Communist law­makPrs in tlw lowt!r housP am pushing l'or YPltsin's imfH'achmt'nl. Also, Yeltsin has said lw won't agr<'P to any dnal that inl'ringns on his widP-ranging pow1irs, and his adminis­lralion said Tunsday lhal it objcclncl to som«' of' tlw proposals. 
RPMMIMt&iW.­
1>ow 
AMEX: 

699.2!

./ONES 
+0.92 
Nas<la<)' 2,259.03 
-.'16.1 ~

9061 
NYSE: 
582.93 
-2.49 
S&I' 500: 
1225.50 

Composite
~l(J.6(, 

Volmnc;-27.17 669.400,000 
VOLUME LEADERS 

1·11t11111u~i· IU IHII 'b1i ll~~!if .1 li&ll:I CIIUt. 
l'\UJ.c l>kl' , 01'11'-\!HU\H'llllll  l"I< t Ptl  •h.l~l .,.92  -7.2,\.2" .\.51.l  10'>.lil .ii.MK  
\itl\l(()ltl' \\'I.\.' l t)Jtl• 1111.1 ,oMt•tiflli l j\( t l \'\"\II M'i ,n,rk ON! INI.  ,·u~l\ .IYI ~ 1111.1 C .'iCtl ,\()!  -12 02 +U,71 --~-l I J,77 . \ 11  .,t,<)H7S +H,H 12~.2.:.,12.s -.1.?'475 -2.R72\  27,CI{\ i~.H 7ti.flh 95.6'1 8~.6tJ  
\11, l{O\lWT'tt)ftl•  ',{\If  •2.Hl  -,-J.llJij()  l·Hf..56  
,\l'l'I H /l \1Al ~ RIA ll.l!,(U\i\1IM-J  \~l,\I It 0\1,\  tO.H -1-1.n1  -i-0 l47.'1 •O.fl200  ,\7.:11 62 12  

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
¦ ]RAO 


ASSOCIATED PRESS striking Iraqi targets almost daily branr.lrns of' tlrn company in the 
since late December. The allies say area. 
AIN ZALA, Iraq they arc responding to Iraqi threats to Th1\ pipeline carried about half of 
About half of Iraq's oil exports arc its planes in "no-f1y" zones over north­Iraq's oil exports. AI-Fattal estimatml in jnopardy after U.S. warplanes bit ern and southern Iraq. the damage has cost Iraq at least $2.!i Lwo communications centers that Iraq does not recognize the "no-lly" million. contrnllcd the flow of oil through a zones, which were set up to ensure Crude oil futures gained on the New key pipeline, an Iraqi official said that Iraqi forces do not target Kurdish York Mercantile Exchange amid spec­Tunsday. rebels in the north and Shiite opposi­ulation U.S. airstrikes on communica­
The damage from the strikes Sunday tion in the south. tions centers in northern Iraq had and Monday is so extensive that it will In Washington on Tuesday, White damaged a key oil pipeline and take a "long time" to resume pumping Ilouse spokesman David Leavy said, delayed pumping indefinitely. oil through the pipeline to Turkey, "Our pilots are going to enforce the U.S. and British planes, which patrol llussein al-Fattal. head of operations no-fly zone; they are going to no-fly zones over northern and south­for· Iraq's Northern Oil Company, said. take the necessary precautions to do ern Iraq, have been striking Iraqi tar­
Officials tried to pump oil on that ... Whal they're targeting is what gets almost daily since late Dncemlmr. Monday but failed, al-Fattal said. "We they deem threatens their ability to The allies have said they am attacking tried ... but we lost communications carry out the mission." military targets in respons11 to Iraq /ir­and control," he said. Al-Faltal and other Iraqi officials ing at the planes or locking its radar 
The U.S. military has said American have denied the two centers hit ever systems on to them. planes may have hit several sites in were used for military purposes. AI­April light sweet crude rose 27 cnnts northern Iraq, but it was not sure if Fattal said the centers functioned to $12.51 a barrel: April heating oil tlrn t.argels had anything to do as an oil relay station, carrying signals rose .54 cent 32.48 cnnts a gallon: with the pipeline. bntween Iraq and Turkey. and was April unleaded gasoline rose .66 cent 
British and U.S. planes have been used to maintain contact between to :18.44 cents a gallon. 
¦ ELECTION 2000 

Buchanan declares presidential bid 
A'>SOCIATED PRESS with ubandon to the much of what he stands for, yelled, "Go Pat, Go!" 
American people, a place to but I can't construct a sce­"It is our calling to rnc:ap­
MANCHESTER, N.H. exploit women," ho said. nario where he has a ture the independnnco and 
Pat Buchanan. the pugna• Ile promised to stand chance to win." said Paul lost sovereignty of' our cious conservative whose against uufettemd imports. Weyrich, a leading c:onserv­republic, to clean up all I.hat insurgrmt campaigns hob­l'reowlrneling immigration, a. tive int<1llectual from pollut!'s our culturo and to bl(ld Republican front-run­abortion, euthanasia, Washington. heal the soul of America. ners in 1992 and 1996, E1xpanded judicial powers, a "It's, like, ho-hum." said And. to that end. I dnclaro launched a third White shrinking American sover­the Rev. Lou Sheldon, a my candidacy for president Hous(l bid Tuesday with a oign ty and, at times, his conservative loader from of the United States." plcdgE> to fight "a moral own party -all familiar California. "He's failed twice Closing with his tradition­deficit that has become themes of a Buchanan cane 4nd will a third time." al battle cry, Buchanan America's great didacy. Buchanan was hoaring grabbod tho hand of his 1momy '\,\,ithin." Though he has a Mstory none ofit. wife, Shelley, and shoutml: 
Suggesting · that the of exceeding th.cir predlc· KWe need a new pntrio­";\s we say, mount up and Clinton administration has tions, many GOP strategists tism in America that puts ride to tho sound of tho contributed to "a polluted and consorvativo activists country f'll'st, a new consor­guns!'' and poisoned" culture, believe Buchanan's third vatism orthe heart that puts "Pat can win if Buchanan delivered u full­me<" won't be charmed. peopli> lirst, (1Jld a new sot Washington doesn't domo­throated attack on the Working against him of' priorities where our nizc him," said Tom llamill Democratic White House. this time: a swelling field of party stands for something of Braintree, N .II. 
"This temple of our civi­like-minded candidates, a higher and greater than the Buchanan's third cam­lizal.ion has been desecrnt· greater domand for moirny bottom line on u balance paign began where his 0U1­cd, used to shake down cor­and a relatively late start. sheet," he said. ers peaked. in this first-in­porate executives, to He "I love Pat and agree with A crowd of at least 300 the-nation primary state. 

Wednesday, March 3, 1999

page 6 The Observer• INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS 
¦ BRAZIL 

IMF expects new loan agreement 
Associared Press 
TO 
Japan'si.m'efupl6yment·· at an all-tirtic high of 4'. cent in January for the straight month, as a record . . . . . number of people lost jobs tlu.e' up by. a r~;!;oh1600. to corporate restructuring and the year~earller m bankruptt,ies, the govf:lrilTU~gt agency . ann<.iunceoTµf~sday. , /, : .. Also; 
The numhor of poople si:rek;h, ·.... out of ing work after being forced ou.r depar · .. . ....·.. ...· t of their jobs rose by 340,000 in jobs rose by.'.180,00 January from a year earlier to million. 
1 million. · The · ·•·· ... · · ·· That was ihe high1:;st jjt.1llJ7:. report ber since tbe government,,\ riite·•at
,:•••:\::t''':-:,:•c,'a 

¦ RusstA 
Companies criticize 
U.S. steel agreement 
Associated Press intends to ask Hussia's trade 
officials to negotiate modifica-
WASHINGTON lions to the deal, described by 

American c:ompanies that rely its representative, Peter on Russian-made steel. a labor Suchman, as vague and "totally union that blames imports for unbalanced." widespread layoffs and a And Carl Frankel of the Hussian exporter all told the United Steelworkers of America Clinton administration Tuesday panned the Clinton administra­that they don't like import limits tion's entire approach to recent negotiated by the two countries. surges in low-priced steel arriv­
The U.S. ing on U.S. and Hussia docks. have agreed "The union 
to varying ,No STEEL MILL WANTS cannot support import limits the proposed
TO SELL SLABS ­

on 16 differ­agreement ent types of IT'S THE LOW LINK ON THE unless it is part steel. FOOD CHAIN.' of a global solu­The agree­tion," he said, mPnt. which 
ANDREW DILLON com plaining

has not yet that when one been final­!'RESIDENT, DSC LIMITED nation's steel 
ized, would ess1rntially roll back exports of those products to around l997's levels. 
Andrew Dillon. president of DSC Limited of Trenton, Mich., implored the Commerce Department's lnlernational Trad,~ Administration to make an exception for the kind of steel on which his business depends. 
He said DSC buys from Russia because it's difficult to get a reliable source of' U.S.-produced slab steel. Integrated mills use all they produc,e and other man­ufacturers buy as much as mini­mills are able to turn out. be said. 
"1\Jo steel mill wants to sell slabs -it's the low link on the food chain," he testified. "There is no domestic supply of slabs and our business depends on this." 
Dillon said his company is in the process of bringing modern facilities on-line that will mean expanding its work force. but if the llussian agreement is final­ized as it's proposed, "We will not be able to open our mill and employ new workers," he said. 
A luwyer for Bcthkhcm Stflcl 

Co., representing largr,r steel 
companies, opposed the deal in 
its entirety. 
"Hussian steel cannot be sold 
fairly in the U.S. market," said 

attornHy Alan Wolff. ''It can univ 
bP dun{pcd." · 
From the large domestic steel 
makers' point of view, ~wcry 
import level in tlrn agre1m1ent 
was set too high. 
The largest Hussian steel pro­
ducnr. JSC Sriverstal, said it imports are cut 
back some 
other countrv steps up its imports, forcing new trade cases that takfl some 13 months to resolve. 
"It doesn't matter to a steel worker whether he's laid off because the steel came from Hussia, the steel came from Japan or the steel came from Korea. Shifting from one coun­try to another is not mmpelling to a steel worker," he said. 

Associated Press have largely been completed. 
He said negotiators from the 
WASHINGTON two sides arc working out final 
A new loan agreement with details this week. Brazil is imminent, the head or But it c,ould be several more the International Monetary weeks before the IMF and Fund, Michel Camdessus, said other lenders release the sec­Mondav. 
ond $9 billion inst.ailment of 
Camdessus the $41.5 billion rescue pack­told the age assembled in November Institute of for Brazil. International "We are now at a linal stage Bankers that of putting together necessary er.onomic amendments to our arrange­revisions ment of last November with and struc-Brazil, to introduce the t u r a I Camdessus changes required by the float­reforms to ing of the real," Camdessus underpin the revised accord said. 
Last January Brazilian authorities let Brazil's real float freely against other cur­rencies, stanching a flow of reserves which were leaving the country at a rate of about a billion dollars a day. 
"We have advanced a lot. We are now dealing with the nitty gritty of the arrange­ment. The agreement will be a solid one," Camdessus said. 
lie reassured his audience of private-sector bankers they will not be required to play any formal role under the new agreement between the IMF and Brazil but said they may be asked to help in the future. 
Bringing It All Together 
Come Join the Student Body Government '99-'00 
Applications are now available in the Student Government office for 1999-2000 Office of the President Team positions 
Applications are due Wednesday, March 17, 1999 by 5 :00 p.m. in the Student Government office (203 Lafortune). 
A list of positions available is included with the application packet. 
Interviews will be Thursday, March 18, 1999 and Saturday,March 20, 1999. Please sign up for an interview when one picks up an application. 
Positions will be announced on Sunday, March 21, 1999 
ABSENTEE BIDDING AVAILABLE 
Place your bid today on exciting Notre Dame items including: 
~110.­
. I 

• Notre Dame Honorary Coaching Positions: 
I . 

Become an honorary coach for the Spring Game on April 24, 1999, including the pregame luncheon,
,_ 

meetings, giving an inspirational pregame talk to your team, being on the sidelines and even calling a few 
select plays under the guidance of the coaching staff. 
MARC HJ_
7,1tir11,Ci,e 
• Football Fantasy 

Four tickets to the ND vs. Michigan State game on Sept. 18, 1999, with limo service to and from the game Center for the (restricted to St. Joseph County), and dinner at the Morris Inn following the game. 
Homeless 
• Armchair Quarterback 
Auction 

Attend the team mass, have sideline passes and visit the locker room after either the Michigan State, Oklahoma, or use home game.
'99 
• Trojan War 

Saturday, Four airplane tickets and four game tickets to the ND vs, USC game on Oct. 16, 1999, with four tickets to the College Football Hall of Fame and a room at the South Bend Marriott.
March 6, 1999 5:30-10:00 PM 
• Dinner with the Presidents 
at the 

Dinner with Father Malloy and Father Beauchamp; Dinner with Father Hesburgh and Father Joyce. 
South Bend Century • Season Football Tickets, and Tickets to Away Games Center 
For more information or to place an Absentee Bid call Drew Buscareno at (219) 282-8700, extension 31i 

Wedne.~day, March j, 1999 
The Observer• NA! lONAL NEWS 
page 7 

Lewinsky will talk on tonight's 20/20 interview 
A,,ociJ.tni Pn:ss 
W/\SI 11:'\l(;'I'Oi': 

Monic,L Lnwin!-ikY is l'inally gPUing IH'r say: aho..,t Pr<•sid"11t Clinton ("a wry srnsual man"), l.inda Tripp ("I pity lrnr") and lwr rl').p·1•l for hurling 
llillarv and 
C h 1• I s " a 
Clinton ("I 
am 
sorry"J. In a lwo­l!our inlPr­
~~--__J

vil'w f() hr• 
Walters

l I' I (' V i s (' d W1·d1wsday night. tlw woman w!wsc1 trysts will! llw pri•sidn11 L i<'d 111 llw Sn1wtP im1wad1mnnt 
1rial olTPrs LhP nation lwr apol-
THE BAYER LECTURE SERIES 
The Center for EnvironmentalScience & Technology at the University of Notre Dame presents 
ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY 
-Earth Day to the Millennium: The View After 30 Years in the Environmental Arena 

,,·,' 
... 
You Will Be

(()py SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 

:----.. . 
, .-.. ,' ~-·,::---: 
,, . For Dynan1ite 
Des\top l'ublishiug 
se,vices... 

Stop in and see what we can do for you! 
Resumes• Newletlers • Flyers • Brochures Business Cards • Letterhead & Envelopes Invitations• Table Tents• Forms• Posters & More! 

Adobe ® Illustrator ®, Photoshop ®, & Pagemakcr ® Minosofl ®Word®, Powcrpoint ®,Excel®, & Window$® 98 
Monday -Thursday: 7:30 am to Midnight Friday: 7:30 am to 7:00 pm Saturday: Noon to 6:00 pm • Sunday: Noon to Midnight 
ogy "l'or my part in this past Kenneth Starr's offico gave tho 
ynar's ordnal." go-ahead. ' "I wouldn't clniam of' asking The interview was timed to Clwlsea und Mrs. Clinton to for­help promot<' her book ­give mo," she says. "But I would "Monica's Slory," written with ask th(\m to know thot I om Princess Diana biographervr\ry sorry for what happ"rrnd Andrew Morton -which goes and for what tl111y'vc bnen on sale Thursday.
through." 
White llouse spokesman _TIJ1• lirst. lady's spokoswoman, Barry Toi\· refused to commont. \1arsha Bnrry. had no com­Asked if Lnwinskv's words nwnt.. 
wonld finally bring· an encl to Barbara Waltors of' /\BC i':Hws Llw story, Toiv said: "I think I 
won tlw l'irst inlorvinw with can safoly say 'No' t.o that." L1•wi 11 sky sinr:n tlw former ABC rnloasnd bri<'f' excerpts Whitn llousr• intorn burst into 
from tlw int<;rviow un Tuesdav. tlw lwadlinos 011 .Jan. 21, I998. "Is Bill Clinton a sensun,;s. I.Pwinskv, who n•c1dved immu­
passionatu man?" Wal tr.rs nity froni prosecution for coop-asked the 25-ynar-old woman. 1irnling with invnstig.tt.ors, wns "(iosh._ I'll probably get in prohibited from speaking pub­troublr, !"or saying this," licly until indqmnJnnL counsel Lnwinsky bngan bcforn describ­
service including 
.__·_ congressional staff in ;:::~i970, through a career 11S' that has included 
··/:environmental education n th~ faculty ofWilliams 
College, service as an Assistant Administrator ... of the USEPA, as 
ritmissioner of New York ·state Department of 
•viroiuri.ental Conservation ·. and now responsible for International Paper Company1s environmental -.Y · program, Mr. Jorling will review lessons learned and how they 
might bear on policy into the 
En~ ' ' 'nmenta1 
Science&
future. 
Technology
~,lf-'llmA/Jiu 

During that first term as gov­unor, Bush forgPd what lw now calls "compassionatn con­servatism." 
Ilis education proposals includ<\d making sure all Ttixas
Our terrific, affordable copies are just what you've been looking 
children read by the third
for! It's our job to make sure our customers get the highest quality 
grade; helping studnnts who copies at the most rea~onable prices. We take pride in giving you fail with in-school, aftnr-school or sumnrnr programs; and <md­
everything you want in a copy shop and more! 
ing automatic social promotion of studenb;.
Quality Copies, Quickly!'" 

Copyright 1999 • All Rights Reserved 
ing the president as "a very 
where Lnwinsky longod lo 
sensual man" who fenls con­
n\turn. Shn said slw confidr-d !lictrd becausn of his "strong 
the affair to Tripp aftn IH\r co­
religious upbringing." 
worker kopl saying things such "I think he struggles with his 
as "You'rn jusl lhn typn of' girlsensuality because I don't think 
t!rn president would liko" and "I he thinks it's OK," she said. "I an afTair
br.t you could havn think he tries to hold himself with him." back. And then can't anymor1,_" 
The Daily Nnws in New York Lewinsky hacl stinging words also publishnd nxcerpts f'rorn for her former friend, Linda thr. intnrview on Tuesday. Tlw 
Tripp, who secretly uqrn­
newspaper said it had obtained recorded their telephonn con­
a purtial, un<'ditnd audio tiqw.
V<'rsations about tlrn prnsirlr,nt 
ABC confirmed its autlwnticityand turned them over to Starr's but objPctnd strongly to its invnstigators. 
being l<\akod. "I pity trnr," Lmvinsky said. "I 
Tho Daily Nows said l.t\Winsky
would hate to be her." 
called Clinton hnr "snxual soul Lewinsky said she was matn" and insistod tlwir rnla­drawn to Tripp at the l'cnt.agon tionship was about a "rnan and 
because both of them had a woman, and not a presidrntworked at the White llouse, and an intern." 
¦ faECTION 2000 
Bush may run for presidency in 2000 
Associated Press 
Bush said hn has bor.n 
buoyed !Jy thn parade of' olocl­AUSTIN, Texas 
ed officials who have trckknd Moving another step closer to 
to Austin to urgo him to run. a White !louse bid in 2000, 
Tur,sday's announcement Gov. George Bush announced 
came as no surpris<i. Advisors 
Tuesday that he is forming a had bcnn putting out tlrn word presidential exploratory com­
for morn than a wonk. but it is 
mittee. 
the first formal. public stop
"I do have a compelling rea­
Bush has taknn toward a Whitn son to consider running for 
llousc racn. president. For my l'arnily and 
"Exploratory committnns 
for every family in America, I 
aren't much, but limy am sig­want the 21st century to be 
nals," said Larry Sabato, politi­prosperous," Bush said. 
cal science prol'nssor at llw 
Bush, 52, said the first job of Univllrsity of Virginia. "It do11s the committee will be to raisn 
havn some signifieancn, money while he remains in 
because for tlw lirst time in a Texas until thn slate 
concrete way, lw's showing
Legislature's 
sonw l11g."

session ends on 
B II s h 

MPmorial Day. 
picknd tlrn This summnr, 'IDON'T FEAR FAILURE. I samn dayBush said, he 
that Pat

REALLY DON'T.'
will travel Buchanan,around the 
tlw COflS()f­country to per-
GEO/ICE BUSI! VatiVn com­
son ally gauge 
ment al or

COVEi/NOi/ OF TEv1S
support. 
whose low­

"I don't have 
budget 

a formal date in 
campaigns

mind yet," Bush said of his 
shocked the Hepublican tistah­timetable for deciding whether 
lish nrnn t in l lJ!J2 and I IJIJ<i. to run for the officr, his father 
opened his third presidential 
once held. 
race in New Ilarnpshirn.The governor oft11n has cited 
Bush said lw's not worried his worries about the impact of' 
about losing. a national campaign on his 
"I don't fear l'ailure. I reallyfamily -wife Laura and their 
don't," he said. "Should I 
twin 17-year-old daughters. 
decide to run, if things don't 
work out, that's just tho way it goes. And if things do work iiut, l don't fear succ1iss, either." 
Formation of tlrn nxploratory commitlcfi allows Bush to rais11 funds, something he's lwen prolific at in Texas. 
Campaign finance records show that Im raisnd about $Hi million in his 1994 challr,nge of Democratic Gov. Ann Hichards, and $17.7 million l'or last year's re-clnction campaign. 
Bush got about 53.5 porcent of th1~ vote against Hichanls in 1994 and a whopping (i 1) 1rnr­cr,nt against Dnmocrnt Ciarry Mauro in 1998 -thn most by any Texas gubPrnatorial candi­dalP sincp .John Connally :\2 ynars bnl'orn. 

u a w 

page 8 The Observer• AUTOMOTIVE NEWS Wednesday, March 3, 1999 
Automakers set sales records
Study: Light trucks pose greater danger Associated Press car in an accident. Regulators have been increasingly wor­IJETHOIT ried about this mismatch Officials at the National between light trucks and cars Highway Traffic Safety as trucks have become more Administration say more common on the road. research is needr,d to deter­Light trucks now account mine what can be done to for nearlv half of all new vehi­make so-called light trucks cles sold ·in the United States. less dangerous in collisions Hobert Lange, engineering with cars arter releasing their director of vehicle develop­latest crash lest report. ment for General Motors Sport utility vehicles, pick­Corp., noted that with one ups and minivans pose a exception. the dummies in all greater risk of injury and the vehicles sustained surviv­death to drivers and passen­able injuries despite the gers in cars, according to the severity of' the crashes -report, released Monday. including the Honda's occu­The gov­pants. ernment " T h i s agency co·n­s,)rir.s of ductcd four LIGHT TRUCKS GENER­crash tests tests involv­dews notALLY ARE HEAVIER,ing offset appear to front-end RIDE HIGHER AND HAVE show there's crash<is a hugeSTIFFER FRAMES THAN CARS, crash-com­between a 1997 llonda WHICH MEANS MORE ENER-p a t i b i I i t y Accord and GY IN A CRASH IS TRANS­problem f'our other between cars vr,hir,les: a FERRED TO THE CAR IN AN and light 1 9 9 8 ACCIDENT. trucks," Chevrolet S-Lange said. 10 compact "It seems to pickup; a prove, once 1997 Dodge Caravan minivan; again, that physics work: The a 1997 Ford Explorer SUV; occupants of the heavier vehi­and a 1997 Chr,vrolet Lumina cles are going to fare better sedan. than the occupants of a In nearly every injury mea­lighter vehicle in a collision." surement, the driver dummy In a related study released in the Accord sustained Monday at the Society of greater injuries in 35-mph Automotive Engineers' annual crashes with the pickup, mini­convention, the Universitv of van and SUV than it did in a Michigan's Transportation crash with the other sedan. Research Institute found that The results were similar to being struck by a light truck those of last year's side­is worse than being struck by impact crash tests involving a car of the same weight. the same models. That's true whether it's a The Accord dummy in the front-end or side-impact front passenger sBat sus­crash, the study said. tained greater injuries when That study, based on actual the car was struck by the crash data~ determined that minivan and SUV. But injury about twice as many car dri­measurements were higher vers arc killed in car-light when the Accord was struck truck collisions than in simi­by the Lumina than they were lar collisions between cars, in when the car was struck by which the other car was of the pickup. The rnidsize the same weight as the light Lumina is heavier than the S­truck. 10. In 1996, the study esti­Light trucks generally are mates, at least 2,000 car heavier, ride higher and have occupants would not have stiffer frames than cars, died had thAir cars collided which means more energy in with other cars instead of a crash is transferred to the light trucks.  

The Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism presents a panel discussion of The Missionary Movement in American Catholic History Angelyn Dries, OSF Marquette University Thursday, March 4, 1999 4:15 p.m. 116 DeBartolo Hall Participating in the a panel are Professor Dries, Philip Gleason, Professor Emeritus (Department of History), Robert Pelton, C.S.C. (Kellogg Institute), and Bradley Malkovsky (Department of Theology)  



Strength of SUV demand 
buoys totals 
A•sociated Pre .. 

DETROIT 
Ford, J-Ionda and Toyota sel February U.S. sales records on booming demand for pickups, sport utility vehiclPs and 
the top-selling vehicle nation­wide for 17 years -and the compact Ranger pickup. F­series sales were up 27 percent over last year, while RangBr sales increased a surprising 46 percent. 
''A strong economy, confident consumers and product innova­tion have proven to be a win­ning trifecta," said Bob Hewey, vice president of marketing and sales. "We're heading into spring supported by strong employment, growing income, low 
minivans. 
interest Every major rates and automaker that afford­reported sales fig­a b 1 e ures Tuesday posted products." 
Ranger sales were helped 
improvrd results com­pared with February 1998. In nearly each case, the biggest gains were in light trucks. 
Ford Motor Co. and DaimlerChrysler AG each had an eight prrccnt improvement; Honda Motor Co, said its sales rose 14 percent on surging demand l'or its Odyssey minivan and SUVs; Toyota Motor Corp. was up 19 pen;ent; ev(m strug­gling Nissan Motor Corp. man­aged a four percent gain. 
At Ford. car sales fell six per­cent, a reflection of consumers' increasing attraction to larger, more versatile and safer trucks. But Ford's robust truck num­bers were better than some analysts expected and helped it break the company's February sales mark set in 1996. 
"The market's been roaring and nothing surprises me," said analyst Maryann Keller of ING Baring Furman Selz. "The truck market this year is much stronger than I thought it would be." 
Ford set February records for sales of its F-series pickup ­
by $1,000 rebates, while buy­ers of F­s er i es trucks received discount 

'\ rI 
' 
~ . , 

financing incentives. Combined SUV sales also set a record !'or the month, led by the Explorer, up 16 percent. and Expedition, up 14 percent, without signifi­cant incentives. 
"The shift away from cars is continuing, and it's occurring in all classes," Keller said. "Thern's not much to say about their car performance -it's dismal." 
The Mustang and Escort were the only Ford cars that posted gains last month, thanks in part to rebates; among '\.1ercurys, only Grand Marquis, Mystique and Tracer posted modest gains. Sales of Ford's highest­volume car. the Taurus, were down 23 percent, despite $500 rebates. 
DaimlerChrysler said its car sales were up nearly nine per­ccn t. while truck sales rose seven percent. Combined SUV sales at the German-American automaker were up 19 percent. The Jeep division set a February record. 
Jamie Jameson, vice presi­dent of sales and marketing, said SUV demand remains strong despite increased com­petition. DaimlerChrysler's SUV sales were up 19 percent, led by the redesigned Jeep Grand Cherokee and the Dodge Durango. 
"We're selling every one of those puppies we can build," Jameson said. 
Honda's February sales total outpaced the record set in 1998 and was led by the automaker's best truck sales ever -up 75 percent and beating its prnvi­ous truck record set last August. The redesigned Odyssey minivan, made in Canada, had the biggest gain. 
"Usually we see things cool off in the first quarter, but there wasn't <Wen a pause this year," said Dick Colliver, vice president of American llonda Motor Co. 
Toyota posted doubln-digit gains in cars and trucks to break last year's February record. Strong sales of' the Camry and Corolla helped boost car salr,s 16 percAnt, while big increases in demand for the Sienna minivan and Land Cruiser luxury SUV led to a 24 percent gain in trucks. 
Strong sales at Nissan's luxu­ry division, lnfiniti, helped drive Nissan's total up. Nissan's truck 
sales improved nearly 5  per­ 
cent.  
General Motors Corp.  was  

scheduled to release its figures Wednesday. 

Thank you for using The Observer to catch up on news. 

·--------------:--~-----,.---~--------------------.--------------:-~------c:----,-------..--::-------
Wednestby, March 3, I 999 The Observer. NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Senate examines Y2K threat to business, medicine 
WASIIINCTON 

Tlw S1l11aLP dedicated Trn•sday lo Ilic Year 2000 com­pu l<l r ·prohlom, looking at thrPats ranging from small­lrn:-;irwss bankruptcies to Hussian missiln malfunr.tions. 
"hirncasling Y2K is a lot fikii 1ir1•dirti11g wPalhnr," Srn. ChristopllC'r Dodd said. "You can onlv trark tlw storm and watch u;n nllt•r.ts.·· 
Dodd, D-Conn .. and St\n. Bob BcnnctL H-Utah, who hnad a special Sonate panel on Lim ''Y2K" prohlmn, issund a ·t 60­pagc report outlining serious potential problems in health care, nnrrgy supply and gov­nrnmnnt sorviuis if action isn't taken to changP computers by the end of' the year. 
They also emphasized that, !'or most Americans. disruptions in vital snrviccs will be mini­mal. Peopln ean cxpm:t, Bennett said, "a bump in the road, hut it will not bo crippling, and it will not last for an undue ltmgth of time." 

Seeking to allay fears of' wide· spread social and economic chaos. Dodd said pt>oplc should have canned goods and waler on hand D11c, 31 as a normal procndurr, but them is no nocd to stockpile food. 
The Senate, by 99-0. passed a !Jill establishing a Small Business Administration pro­gram to provide loan guaran• tees to small companies trying to repair computers or affoctncl by interruptions in supplins. 
The National Federation ol' Independent Business said more than half the nation's small firms that use computors have yet to act to make their systems immuno to the Y21< bug. "The majority of small businesses are not rnady, and they arc not even preparing," Sen. John Kerry, D-Mass., said. 

"It may rome down lo a choice between debt or dissolution or rolling the dice." 
The bill.
s.:n4, still needs Ilouse consider­ation. The Br.nnett-Dodd report concurred that small businesses and focal gov• ernments that lack the money 
or expertise to rnpair their sys­tems faced the biggest risks. 
It said 64 percent of hospi­tals. mostly smaller units, haven't tested their Y2K repairs, and more than 80 p<lr­cent of doctors' offices arnn't prepared. The effects could be temporary loss of medical records, or, more serious, breakdowns in computerized equipment. 
Biomedical dcvicns, tlw report said, am the "Trojan horsns in the health•carn industry's compliancn." Malfunctions in hlood gas ana­lyzers, for example, could shut down operating rooms. 
While thn pharmacnutical industry is gcn1mtlly well prn· pared, 80 pcrcnnt or ingredi­ents used in drugs comes from abroad. many from countrios that could faee serious Y2K dh,­ruptions, tho rnport said. 
Bennott 
s a i d 
telocommu­

'DJRECASTING Y2K IS A 
11 i cat io 11 s£ LOT LIKE PREDICTING and powor 
THE WEATHER. You CAN systems are in rclativf1ly
ONLY TRACK THE STORM good shapP, 
AND WEATHER THE EFFECTS,' but tlrnrn's 
real reason to worry C//IUSTO!'/f/i!/ DODD about oil imports
SENATOR, IJ-CONN 
from such 
major sup­
pliers as 

Saudi Arabia. Vorrnzuela and Nigoria. All are 12 to 18 months behind thn Unitnd States in uddrossing Y2K prob­lems. 
Bennett and Dodd also held a sccrol session for s1lnators to discuss national security and international issuos rising from disruptions that could occur wlrnn computers misrnad the year 2000 as I<JOO. 
800-833-5555 

www.busvUle.com 
UNITED Ll\-'10 
Your Airport Connection, O'Hare & Midway, All Day..• Every Day 


-----.....-:~.. 
VIEWPOINT 

OB~ERVER ----------------Wednesday, March 3, 1999 


The Trouble with Republicans Today 

THE OBSERVER 
Norn~. DAME OrncE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S 0FHCE, 30') Haggar. Notre Dame, IN 46S'iG (219) 284-'\365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
l'DITOR•IN•CHIEF Heacher Cocks MANAGING EmTOR BCSINFSS MANAGER Brian Reinth:der Kyle Carlin 
AsSISHNT MANAGING Emm• Hc:uhcr M~cKcnzii: 
Nrws EDITOR ..................:vlichdk Krupa ADVERTISING MANAGER.................. Ilrya11 Lutz V1Ewr01NT E1>1101t .................. Eduardo Llull AD DESIGN MANAGER ........................ Bm, Huda, SroRrs EDITOR .....................Karhlccu Lope,. SYSTEMS MANAGER..... ........... tdid,acl Brouille, SCENE EDITORS........................Sarah Dyl,g CoNTROLU~R .......... , .........................Dave Rogi::ro 
Kristi Klirsch Wm ADMINISTRATOR .......................Alli.son Krilla SA!l'T MARY'S EotTOR .......M. Shannon Rvan GRAPHICS ErnTOR ............................... Petc Cilclla PHOTO EDITOR ........................ Kevin Dalum 
J'hc Observer i'!i rhc indtpc'ndcm ll(Wll.p;iper p1Jbli.~hed hy rh~ muler.1s of the Univcr,;iry ofNotr~ Dame du )..ic anJ S;unr M:ufs College. h does no, nc-ccs.,;:ir1ly reflect the polic1C'~ of the admiru[l;rrarion ofeither insruut1on. The ft'-'WS i5, tt'p_orrcd :as a.~urnrdy anr.l objec,ivdy as post.1bl.c:, L~~1gn~-d «fitorials wp,csenr lhe opinion ofthe ma.1ori,y ofdw Eduor-in-Ch1ecf• .\-1.i;n..gin.g Ediwr, A~ist,mt M•nagmg EJitvr J.ild dcpanm~nt .:d.uor~. Comm(:nt•rit.:~. l.:w:rs a.nd (:olumns p~M;m th..: v1cw.5, of rh~ au,hor~. ;mJ not ne<..:~Jtily ihos~ of ·nlc Ub<,i.rv~r. Vi(;lJ,•r,oira sp.1.ct: js ..va,bhle mall members of1:hc Notrt: DamdS.unt M.iry':a. cvmmunit)" audio .JI rca(.1.:r~. The fret: cxpre»ion of v.;uying opiniom through l.:m:r~ ls c:m:ouragcd. 
Contacting The Observer 
Ediror-m•Chief 6:11 •4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Ediror/A~.,.isranr 1\1:E 631-4541 Adveni,ing 631-690018840 Ncws/Phow 631-5323 ~v"em, 631-883~ Sporn, 6.11-454.~ fax 631-6927 Sct:1H.:/S.1ini ~Iar/<l 631-4540 Viewpoinr E-Mail Viewpoi1•r. l@11d.~du Day Ediror/Viewpoim 6.11-5303 Ad E·Mail oLscrvcr@da.rwin.L:C, 1id.cdu Offi,r.: r..-t.1nagt:r/Gc.:11c:ral lnform.1.tiun 631-7471 New, E·Mail observc:r.obsuew.s. l@nd.e<.ht 
¦ SAY Ir AHIJ'T So. iSSAC 
I'm stepping out of the closet. Most of you will never look at me the same way again, and if my parents ever find out, they will disown me. For years I've denied it, but I think it's time that I acknowledge who I am and carry on with my life. 
I'm a Republican. 
Issac Ruiz 
Okay, I'm not really a Republican, but I did vote in two Republican primaries. They meant nothing to me. I didn't want to do it, but as they say, "When in Texas ... "-well, you know. 
For years, I've tried to mask my Hepublican t,mdendcs by overcompen­sating with sensitive and correct posi­tions on issues like civil rights, welfare and international affairs. I've never been able to hide my views regarding -this is hard to say -that dirty three-letter word. 
T-A-X. 
"Why me?" I've often asked myself. How can I repress my urges -my desire for lower rates. my craving for a simpler code? Could there be a "cure" for my latent Republicanism? 
Everyone says there's nothing wro~g with being Republican. I think that's true. Republicans' conduct is what's so offensive. 
Consider. for example, the issue so near and dear to us at Notre Dame ­guaranteeing each individual equality unde.r the law, regardless of his sexual orientation. 
Earlier this year, presidential hopeful George W. Bush (the son) raised a few eyebrows in the Lone Star state when he supported inclusion of a gay group, the Log Cabin Republicans, at Texas' Republican Convention. Successfully branding himself a "compassionate con­servative," he easily won reelection to the Texas governorship. 
Unfortunately for Bush. national poli­tics proved nastier than Texas politics (and that's quite an indictment). Apparently questioning Bush's conserva­tive credentials, Lamar Alexander, who admits that he's the only Beagan Republican running for President. says "compassionate conservativism" are "weasel words." 
By January, a top aide said Bush would support a proposal to prohibit same-sex couples from adopting a child 
'THAT'S THE PROBLEM 
WITH THE 
REPUBLICAN PARTY. f OR 
TOO LONG THEY'VE WOR· 
RIED TOO MUCH ABOUT 
DIRTY WORDS LIKE S-E-X 
INSTEAD OF FOCUSING ON 
OTHER WORDS LIKE T-A-X.' 
or from becoming foster parents. The governor, arguably a latent liberal, fell deep into denial. 
At least 10 million children in the United States are raised in gay or lesbian households. More than a decade has passed since collection of data support­ing that number, and it's safe to assume that today's figure is much larger. Furthermore, powerful evidence demon­strates that homosexuals arc perfectly capable of good parenting. 
Homophobia is fashionable in Republican subculture;take, for 


•Er 
~-I 

instance, Senate '.\1ajority Leader Trent Lott and conservative guru Pat Robertson (please). Curiously. during the last year, each of these men has con~ cerned himself with the sex life of anoth­er man (the president's) more than any gay man I know. 
That's the problem with the Republican party. For too long, they've worried too much about dirtv words like S-E-X instead of focusing on "other words like T-A-X. Way too many good candi­dates sell out because they think it'll win them an election. This time the strategy won't work. 
New Jersey Gov. Christine Todd Whitman admitted before the Republican Leadership Conference last month that, "[M]any Americans right now have an impression of rhe Republican Party that's mean-spirited, vindictive and ... not attending to the puhlic's business." 
At the same conferpnce, Gov. John Rowland of Connecticut lamented that his party had alienated women, minori­ties and homosexuals in recent years. He summed up the party's problems: "I will report to you that the good news is that the rich people and the business people still like us, but that's about it." 
Like Howland said, unless each of' these people votes live or six times, the Hepublican party is in trouble. 
I am no longer a practicing Hepublican. My views on most issues mean that I usually support less consnrv­ative policies and, therefore, less conser­vative politicians. Still, I hope that af'tnr Gov. Bush reads his copy of today's Observer, he'll reconsider his strategy for becoming president. Othcrwisn, I'm afraid the Hepublican party and I havc1 had our final fling. 
Isaac Ruiz is a second-year law stu­dent. He can be e-mailed him al isaac.ruiz.13@nd.edu. 
71ze views expressed in this column are those ofChe author and not necessarily those of The Ohser1Jer. 
¦ OooNESBU!W 
YOU'! !JiffaJN'T 1 HAV/f
I WO?J< POI<. 
I.AYITON 
TO TAtl< 70A 1,,MJYffR NqP&.
MR N6UY£N, 
~,R4/VNfiR.
MANA@~ROF 
l<JHO'U 7Atl< ff)A /11/J.N-IM NII<& FAC701<Y 
A6liR.. 1,(/f/OZ/,. 7,A/.IC!O ffAl 
116. ateM/15' ANAff£NTJ(JIIIJ/IJJN'r PIHAT5 A P/<OP05Al. CAtL-M6 /jll{)(? Uf'! 
\ 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

UM... I'M 
I UNl?t:R­

St?RRY, I'M 
(i'TJIN/?,

NOTAU7HOR.­
7HANK'3

I.Z£l? 70 ll;:ll 
FOR.COW­

YOIJP!31<£NALtY. 
ING BY.
I 
I 

¦ QuorT OF THE DAY 
, There is no fun in 
doing nothing. The 

fun is in having lots to do 
and not doing it.' 
-Mary Little 

VIEWPOINT 
TlimsJay, February 18, 1999 -----------------~ os~tRvER -----------------------page 11 
¦ LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
End Affirmative Action 

In 11. rm;ent issue. The Observer run several nrtidos r11garding tho topic of atnrrnativo action. With our privileged and rather sheltered lives twre at Notre Dame. it is easy to praise affirma­1ivn acl.ion for ils roto in bringing different lmck­grnunds together (and tho articles cortainly had no shortagi! of positive things to say in this vein}. /\dmitlNJly, lifo would be boring if we were all 
Lim same. 
llownv1,r. tlw artides -and, it seems, a large portion or uppnr•clnss socfr1ty -negle<'t to re(~­ogni:w how harmful aflirmalive action is. II. denies opportunities to those in the "majority"-­opportunities they mrnd just as much as minori­lins do. At tho sam,1 tinm, it wrongfully suggcets that minoritim, are unable to sucr,ccd without outside assistance. 
Pi,rhups tho most striking claim mad,~ by one of' the articles was thn.t al1irmn.tive action docs not entail "pmfol'ential treatment and unfair ndvantugcs for minorities and women." Far l'rorn fiction, prc!i1rential Lreatnwnt is at the heart of every nfnrmutive actiou plan. Let me share a few storios that I hope will convince you of' this fact. 
In the middlo 1970s, my father took tho civil scrvke exam to bcr.ome a 1ire1ighter in the City of Buffalo. i\t the h,mrt of civil service is the con­('Ppt nl' murit-based hiring: by utilizing an objec­tive hiring system, it hopes to give the ''best" job to the "best" individual regardless of extraneous fartnrs (inlerestingly enough, it originated in China cnnturies ago in ordrw to oliminato 1rnpo­lism). What is supposml to happen is that every pnrson who w1t11ts a given _job takes an examina­tion -which, in llw rnse of firefighting, includns both writtnn 11.nd physirnl components -and, lmsml on objective scores. applieants are ranked l'rnm highi,sf to low11st. 
I I iring then proce11ds in tho ordor of lhe rank­ing list. Simply, "the hPst pf'rson g(•ts the job." When my futh1ir took llw exam, hn placed 36th nut of Sl'Voral thousand applicants; so lrn should httVP immPdiately l'()Coivml a job. Jlowever, hPcausn ol' minority hiring (read preference!. he hud to wait sev1~ral y1mrs for a job -until only two weeks bPf'ore that list expired. 
Minority applicants who ~Vtire ranked over :100111 rnc1•ivmi joh nssignm1mts b1~roni he did. 
Only sevmal years ago, one of my uncles took the dvil srrvice exam {rnmember. the goal of dvil service is ohjectivt• hiring) to become n policP officer in the City of Buffalo. Rec(mtly, hir­ing prnC'tices in llrn police department have been so pn•fon•ntial Loward minorities that, for every while main hirnd, throe minorities or womon must be hired. That is, despite the fnct that white males constitute the majority of appli­cants, llwy ret:1\ive only about a quarter of the jobs available. My uncln, as a white main. has lit­llP rhancP of' getting hirncl. 
Onr• of Uw 11rticles in The Obs1,rver also praises ttw fact thal more womon are bning offernd "opportunitills" in tho police and fire depart-m,m ts. Th a l's great -if they deserve the jobs ltwy am givon. Many poophi do not know that physical standards am lower (read, preferential) for womm1 than they are for men seeking the s1wrn jobs in the policn department. For exam­plo, wonwn have lo be ablo to do fewer pushups in a minutP and complete thfl mile-nnd-a-half 
run ln a. slower time than do their male counter­parts. 
How's that'?, lf I am ever boing mugged I want the most physically capable officer available to Msist me -and ff that means denying positions to physically inferior wornon, so ho it. If J am stuck on the eighth Door of a burning building, I want. a firefight.er who can carry me safely down the ladder. If a flvo-l'oot tall, one hundred pound woman can do such tasks with comparable ahili­
1:y to her male counterparts -by all means. assign her to the force and let her roscui~ me. Bur if shG can't -and, as standards have been lowernd for women, this seems likely -it seoms bcUor for everyone I.hat sho be denied the job. 

As a female and an engineering student; f have yet nnother perspective regarding affirmative action. Well-intentioned people do not stop telling mr how easy it will he to obtain a job when I graduate, being a female engineer and all. But I don't want to be hired simply because l am female! ' 
I want to bo hired because I nm the best candi­date and I will do the best joh. And the catch ls this: regardless ofwhether I am hired as a token female or as an outstanding engineer, my male colleagues will wonder which is the case.,.,... and who could blame them? They will think ­regardless of what is true -that I was hired simply to complete the trend of ''diversifying" the engineering workplace. I'd rather that thought never cross their mind; l'd rather they know that their company simply hires the best applicants. llowever, with current hiring practices thai hoavily utilize alTirmative action, there ls little chanco that I will evor know if I could have "made it" on my merits alone. 
In short, atnrmative action is strongly demor-' alizing to both the whites it discriminates against and the minorities it suggests are unqualified to compete on their merits alone. We, as n society, need to stop hiding behind arguments that deny the simple fact<; that allirmative action does dis­criminate against whites and does oITer prel'er­Emtial treatnlllnt to minorities. We neod to stop claiming that race is simply "considered" when awarding jobs and scholarships and the like. when, in tart, race is the primary criterion upon which they awarded (in cases of affirmative action, obviously). 
Number 36 on tlrn firefighter rankings is not remotely close to number 300 on thosH same rankings; doing 30 pushups in a minute (as for the police officer physical exam} is not compara• ble to doing 50 ol' them, 
AITirmalive action has everything to do with setting different -that is, unequal-standards !'or whites and minol'ilies; when did this beconrn right? We need to stop trying to find equality of opportunity in a system that is inherently unequal. We need tCI end affirmative action., 

Leah Ashe 
$(.lphomore 
McGlinn Hall . Fcbruruy 2711999 
ViewpoiVlt 1s V\oW hiriJ/\9 assistaVlt editors for the 1999~2000 school year. Co~+act Callee~ at 1 ~5303 for further iVlformatioV\ or stop by the office iVl SD+-1. 
¦ UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND 
The Pig's Gotta Be 
Penned Up 

COLLEGE P/\HK, Mel 

Did you ever wonder what it was like to live in Communist 
Hussia or IIitler's Germany? Well, you ah·1\ady know part of it. 
Despite the popular misconception that wn live in a domocratic 
country. this country has become a police stal!~. Martial law has 
been declared and all conceptions about the "fair" trial have been 
thrown out the window. 
01<:-:so maybe it's not that drastic, but let mn nxplain where I'm 
cornmg from, When you sec u police officer following behind you 
on t~e road, how ?o you feel'? Do you fool safor bncause you know 
they re there lookmg out for the safnty and security of the popu­
lation? Or, do you get paranoid and worrind about what you 
might be pulled ovor for? 
l'm willing to bet that for tlin most or us, it's tlrn lattl'r. 
It shouldn't Im this way. Cops shouldn't havl' this all-pow<'rrul 
reign of terror over drivnrs, ospndally oVt'r younger driwrs and 
minorities. Yeah, I said it. Cops arc as biased as a memlwr or tlw 
Ku Klux Klan whnn it conws to pulling ov<'r minoritil's. 
I have a black friend who g<'ts pullnd ovnr at lnast oncn a monlh just because he drives a nicn car. The story is always tlrn sanw. 
"Can I see your lic1msP, etc.'?'' 
"Sure, oflker." 
::where ai:e yot~. going?" 
llomn, ollicnr. 

"You got anything in the car I should know ah1111f.'!" 
Don't tnll me you hav1111't lrnard that bnf'orn. l.ikP IH•raus1\ lw 
has a nice car and he's black lw's a drug dnalnr? But thn cops 
will tnll you it gives them cause to lw suspicious. Why don't wn 
light to stop this'' 
I used to get the same thing all tlrn time just b11causo I havn a bunch of stickers on my car and I had long hair. I onc11 got pulled over ~t 8 in the morning ovnr a wintnr brnak, on my way to visit my h1_gh school, and a cop asked what I had b1rnn smoking that mornmg. I wanted to say, "It's 8 o'clock in the morning, I would like to have startnd smoking pot this early!" 
The worst is when you fight a ticket. What happnnnd to inno­cent until proven guilty? Unlnss you bring in nxtnnsiw charts, witnesses and experts, you'rn probably going to lost>. Your best option is to plna-bargain for a l11sser line. /\ny cop can givn any­one a ticket, oven if' it is unwarrantt•d, and ni1w limns out or I0, they're gonna pay some kind of' fine. Somo justicn. 
A majority or cops am on somn absurd powor trip. Tlwy don't understand that the people thny pull ovnr arn lrnmans. 01111 limo, coming back from the District, my frilmd and I wnn• both pullnd over and all seven passengers in our cars we'rn thrown to tlw ground at gunpoint. 
Turns out someone had called in and said wn had a gun. OK, I undnrstand why we were treated like that. llow11vnr, onrn tlwy realized that we didn't have a gun. thny didn't chango thnir to1111. You'd think, after they had thrown nveryone on the ground and almost btmt up one of my friends, that they would apologize. That they'd at least say, "Sorry for the inconv11niPnc11." 
Nope. /\II thny did was give us unreasonablo sp11PC!ing ticknts, which basically means, "We think you wero speeding, but WP can't pr~ve it." I guess they had to get something out of the stop. 
On a side note, why do cops continue to stuff their facns with coffee and doughnuts? I swear, you can't be at a donut shop f'or more than a couple of hours without seeing a cop pick up a dozen or two intended for his buddies back at tlrn pigpen. I can just hear their squeals ofjoy. I'm just saying, if I were a cop, I'd stay as far away from doughnut, just because of lhe stereotype. 
But back to what I've been trying to say. We should think of the police as prot!ictors of' our safHty. But instflacl limy harass us. I'm just curious as to why there has not been major uproar about it. 
The police need to answer to a higher authority. Thorn needs to be a citi~~n•s control board or something that reviews complaints about o(hcers. Moreover, we need to complain about thn police. 
If an oflicer unfairly harasses you, don't just let it happen. Write a lettt~r to his or her superior, to the mayor, the governor and to the local paper. Make sure you include his or lrnr name. We need to fight to keep our freedom. If injusticfls are going on, the only way to stop them is to fight them. Or it will get worse, 
Josh Kross is a senior English and golJPrnment and politics major at the University ofMaryland. lie can be reached at jmkross@wam.umd.edu This column has been reprinted b11 cour• tesy ofthe U-Wire. · 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 





There was a great deal of intrigue sur­rounding the need for Jimi Hendrix to produce an album for Capitol records to be rnleased in 1970. Most of this stems 
from the all too common practice of musicians to sign any contrad that comes across the table. Such was the case with Jirni Hendrix and the luwsuil by Pl'X Industries lhal was settled with tho demand for an album of new material. 
Tu fulfill this commitment to Capitol Hecords, Hendrix assembled a band which became known as the Band of Gypsys. He called on his old army buddy, Billie Cox, and drummer Buddy Miles to help him. Just prior to the formation of the Band of Gypsys. Hendrix's relationship with his Experience bassist, Noel Hedding, disintegrated after countless disagreements about touring and studio work as well as music. 
In addition, Experience drummer Mitch Mitchell decided to takfl a break and go back to England. The result of tlrn new band's efforts was !'our uf the most legendary rock 'n' roll per­formances -two on Dec. 31, 1969, and two in Jan. 1, 1970 -all four at Bill Graham's Fillmore East. 
That is about all I am going to say regarding the background of these performances tmcause what often happens is that these events shadow
Jiini Hendrix 

the pure greatness of the music. Live at the Fillmore East represents Experience Hendrix's latest release of previously 
unreleased material. This double CD set contains tracks that are not included on the 1970 Band of _Gypsys, which contained performances from the 
Live at the Fillmore East 
MCA Records 

last two shows and was the last album that Hendrix authorized for release. Live at the**** (out of five) Fillmore East contains releases from all four of 
the Fillmore East shows. lf you are a fan of Hendrix. you have no doubt heard recorded versions of many of the songs on 


these CDs. Kut at the time that they were per­formed, they wore completely new to the crowd and somewhat new to the band. It wa!-i this point in He11drix's career where he had only begun to experiment and let his creativity flow. 
Live at the Fillmore East give!> you a glimpse or an inspired artist who strived to be complntrly !'rec with his music and push il lo new levels. Hendrix incorporated elements of rock, H&B, soul and funk to crea.tf1 n very complex and new sound. You need not he a fan of llondrix to sit in awe as you hear thfl music unfold. 
Of note on this reloase arc two alternate ver­sions of "Machine Gun," a song that is heralded as one of Hendrix's greatest single ad1ieve­ments, as p11rformcd by the Band of Gypsys. Also included is a cover of' llowartl Tate's ll&B song, "Stop," which t.lw band e!1watnd to a new lovtd -a very funky song. 
This is a great set of' CDs, containing some of the best music ever performed, in my humble opinion. With thal said, l would have liked lo see even more of the performances released, possi­bly in the form of a boxed sot of the concert per­formances. However, this would entail a large number of' CDs and would inevitably be very expensive. 
It is also important to note that Live at the Fillmore East is more of an addilion to the 1970 release of Ban<l ol' Gypsys. Band of Gypsys repre­sents the hand-picked songs for relfmse and con­tains some of the better versions of the songs on Live at the Fillmore East. Such is the case with "Who Knows," which is one of the best songs performed at the conr.erts. The two albums together represent an important collection in music history. 
The title Tim Sebadoh seems to imply tlw.. defining era of a band. This is the sound that thr, band Sebadoh has been striving to achieve with their past six albums. Lou Barlow (guitar, vocalsi claims "it felt like we were making solo albums under a band name." But now. after a little over 10 years, the defini­tive Sebadoh has arrived. · But is the definitive Sebadoh any good? Sebadoh has been known as the king of' the Io­li indie music scene since the conception of such albums as Ill (1991 l and Bubble and Scrape n99:-l). These albums formed around a strong contrast in music -the acoustic folk melody and lulling voice of Lou Barlow versus the punkish scrnamings of Eric Gaffney (drums, vocals) ver­sus the punk and folk mix of Jason Lowenstein (bass, vocals). Sebadoh was three singers/song writers pulling in opposite directions. After Bubble and Scrape, Gaffney left, only to be replaced by drummer Bob fay for the albums Bakosale (1994) and Ifarmacy (1996). With a new drummer. Sebadoh took a turn towards more mainstream alternative -or maybe main­stream alternative took a turn towards Sebadoh. Lowenstein wrote more songs and tried to take the place of Gaffney and his rants. Barlow soon became known as that guy who wrote the smash hit "Natural One" as part of his side project called Folk Implosion. Scbadoh gained even more notoriety with "Ocean," the first single off of an amazing Harmacy record. Now it's 1999, and Sebadoh has risen again with another new drummer, Russ Pollard. With a new drummer comes another new style for the band. 

Gone are the days of screaming lyrics. Gone is the band which moved in everv direction at once. Gone is the old spirit of Sebadoh. Like every alternative band today, Sebadoh has adopted the sound of the '90s. Songs like "It's All You" and "Flame" ring less true with the addition of elec­tronics and samples. In addition, "Flame" seems stolen in its spoken-word refrain, a patented Soul Coughing style. Sebadoh stands on the bor­der of soiling out lo the sound best described as MTV, and only Jason Lowenstein stands in the way. 
The Sebadoh, while a declinn in style, is the coming-of-age of Lowenstein. No longer does he sit loudly in the shadow of Lou Barlow. For the second straight album, Lowenstein and Barlow ­share the stage, scripting seven tracks apiece, but this time it's different -Lowenstein now casts the shadow. In tracks like "Nick of Time" and "Decide," Jason keeps the angry Scbadoh alive and with his scratchy voice, holds onto a style not definitive of' alternative culture. 
Lou Barlow isn't without his successes either. The songs "Colorblind," "Sorry," and "Love is· Stronger" are reminiscent of' the Lou of old. Unfortunately, Lou cranked out some lackluster, radio-friendly tracks in order to fill his seven­song quota -"Tree," "Flame," and "Thrive." True Sebadoh fans are left crossing their fingers and praying -don't sell out, Sehadoh. There's still time. 
T;mDonof.ue 

Afghan ,Whigs 
The Samples· 
Alanis Morissette 
Rolling Sto'nes ••<Ii(· SIeater.Kinney 


Wednesday, March .\ 1999 OBSERVER ---------------------page 13 
album reviews 
Lnt's say you havo an Ppisod1• ol' MTV's "Cnlt•brily DPalhrna.lch" l'ualuring women in rock. l!1•rp's what would happnn ­Cw!'n Std,:ni DVPr .l1!wnl. no doubt; Alanis ov1,r Cw1in; Court1my I.ovn ovnr /\Janis and in the diampionship round ... Sl1•at<•r-Kin1rny's Corin Turk1ir ov1-r Cmirtrwy. N1•vp1• Iward of' SIPalBr-Kinnny" You will. !.asl y1•,tr, tlw fo11rn11· pop-punk trio, consisting ol voc'.itlist Tuck1,r. guitarist Carrie Brownstnin and drumnwr .larwt WPiss, was iru-ludml in SPIN MagazinP's foaturc-"ThP Most Important Mu-;icians in lhP World Today." Thnir third album. I1J<J7's llig \fo Out. was at tlrn lop or 1·01111LIPss "lrnst of"' lists. Timn Magazine 1w1rn dPdiral1•d a lt•ngthy artidl' to 11w band. Sl1ial.Pr-Ki1111cy is pup music, though ndgkr, llardPr a11d morP danl'nablf!. Na1rnnl afler a slrP1•1 in tlwir homc>town of Olympia, Wash.. llrn wonwn rPjPr.l1•d co1111tl1•ss major label offers to st11y dos1• to ho1111i with tlw indPpnndnnl Kill l!of"k Stars lalwl. No OJH• plays with 111on•. raw passion and vul­Ilf'raliility than Sli•atcr-Kinncy. Tlwy could Im the ill1•giti111alP da11ght1\rs ol' Patti Smith, playing as loud as boys but doing it their own way. Thny liaVI' a full. rich sound for a trio: Altnrnaling lwtw1•m1 sof't. wispy vocals and 1wrvy, 1mr-shal­11'ri11g wails, SIPatcr-Kinn1iy r1•!'us1!s to lw onP­cli mPnsional. TuckPr and Brownslr.in put a 1'1•111al1• spin on tlwir lyrics -without aliPmtting ma!P listl'tll\rs This n'cord is about grace in rplationships and navigating tf!mptations, not. Mars vnrsus Venus. 
ThCT llot Rock -titlnd after a 1970s diamond !wist film starring Hobert lfodford -exudf!s forocily and l'railty. Tim album features surf-rock rlrumrning. ,ww wav1\ inlfo1mr,os and crunchy guitars. Songs that appear simplistic and hook­laden contain 1rnwf!rf'ul lyrics. The !.itle track revf!als the idcntitv of' the r.oveted "Hot Hock." This song could ltii.vn nasily turned into a rock clidH1, but Tucker spins it cleverly. 
/\ trarl('mark or Sl!~atcr-Kinney is the layering of two sets of lyrics expressing diffcrnnt view­points. "Hurn, Don't Freeze!" and "Get Up" are classie formulas. Another standout is "Living in J•:xi11,," about a woma11 who keeps a hravn f'ace through hriartbrcuk. Tucker's voral deliv<iry is confident 1n its vulnerability; you'd ho hard µressml to find a morn cathartic voice in rock. Tuck"r soars from a trembly vibrato to a quiet whisper in a sncond. Ono moment shn socks. you in thn gut; Uw next, she's soothing you. 
YPah, Sleater-Kinnf!y could hl'at Courtnf!y Love in a C11lebrily Dealhmatch. ll would be brutal. but the tag-team of Tucker and Brownstein rocks louder. hardtlr and catchier than just about any other women in rock. 
Except maybe Celine Dion -she's really scary! 
Georgeffe Leonard 


Photo courtesy of Kill Rock Stars Records 
Sleater-Kinney 
The Hot Rock 
Kill Rock Stars Records 
**** (out of fiye) 

Patty Griffin 
Flaming Red 
A&M Records 
** (out of five) 

If the songs that make up Patty Griffin's first album, Living With Ghosts, are apples, then those on lrnr follow up, Flaming lfod, arn oranges. Or maybn kiwis, or honeydew, or anything just as bland. While her poppier sec­ond elTorl cannot be directly compared with her purnly acoustic debut, it is nonetheless evident that th1\ str.llar songwriting and vocal prowess that characterized her first album havf! wanml, only Lo be rcplacNI with an overproduced back­ing band. The album lacks continuity -it skips without caution from blues-rock to country to pop. The e!f!ctric rockers are contrived, and the ballads, especially at tlrn end of the album, are tedious at bnst. Them are a few shining moments on thn album, like "One Big· Love," which you may havn hnard on the radio, and "Tony." !'atty summoned up all of her songwriting talent to pen tlrnsl' two very impressive tunes. "Go Now," Cril'fin 's surprisingly effective attempt at jazz, comns complete with a prominent bass and brushns instead ol' drumsticks. Its success relies on Patty's amazing ability to control her voice, which slrn transforms into pure '40s-radio vel­vnt for this novel piece. Tim two minutf!s of distorted guitar and wail­ing harmonica noise that comprise the first and title track are a warning to any listeners who might nxpect this album to sound anything like Living With Ghosts, an album that featured only CrilTin and her acoustic guitar. But the loud and fast attempt at blues-rock is not only trnnspar­f!ntly df!libm·ate, but il is also literally monoto­nous. Griffin comes closm· to the mark with the more internsting "Wiggley Fingers," a gritty song with a lleudrix-stylc guitar riff that addn!sses siixuality and the shame that Catholicism associates with it. While these songs am certainly charged, most of the album actually consists of slowPr num­bers. "Carry Me" is a mournful yet puppy dirge, similar in many ways to Sarah Mc!ai:hlan's "Swent Surrnnd111"." "Christina" is a prntly bal­lad, despite bPing compromised by syntlwsiznd drums at the bHginning and Pm!. "Big lladdy" is a dreamy mnmory in t!rn form ol' a song with a soothing -ii' slightly eerin -effect. Tlwre is not much to say about "Mary" or "Pel1\r Pan," the two slow ballads that conclude tlw album ­tlrny are simply tough to sit through. 
With decent melodi1\s and obvious, 1wrhaps nxcnssive, attention to detail, the rPmaining songs on the album am tlw most radio-friP1ully. They am straightforward pop songs that would fit right betwnen Paula Coln and Shawn Colvin. "Onn Big Lovp" is a well crafwd, st!'ady rockl'r with carnf'ully-placml harmonins and a nicl' bal­
. ance between acoustic and Plnrlric guitars. The overproduction of most of tlw instru­ments in "Tony" -inrluding spacey sound effects and voice delays -is nvercom1• by Griffin's superb song and lyric v.-riting abilitiPs and a raucous chorus to make this thP album's best song. I liknd Patty Griffin's first album so much that I felt compe!lf!d to buy her second effort. But I started to worry wlrnn I noticnd tlH' critics praising her "nxpanded" sound. Mv worries were confirnlf'd. 1'1;1 not-sum where Griffin was trying to go with the sporadic Flaming llPd, but I think she might have had the radio dial in mind. Nonetheless, her latest effort can't df!stroy hrr past -I will always hold a special place l'or tlw phenomenal Living With Ghosts. 
Ji,n Kelly 
UPCOMING SHOWS IN INDIANAPOLIS 
Mighty Blue Kings Mar. 4 Patio Lounge Lyle Lovett Mar. 25 Embassy Theatre Lenny Kravitz Mar. 9 Murat Theatre Celine Dion Mar. 31 Market Sq. Arena The Samples Mar. 9 Vogue Theatre Jonny Lang April 2 Murat Theatre Salt 'N Pepa Mar. 9 World Mardi Gras de Talk April 3 Market Sq. Arena 
..... 

Alanis Morissette Mar.11 Market Sq. Arena The Temptations April 30 Convention Center 
page 14 The Observer• CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, March 3, 1999 
¦ COLLEGE BASKETBALL 

Big East coaches want to change tourney format 
Associated I'ress into Thursday's quarterfinals No. 7 Providence (16-12) faced as a No. 12 seed. ''With so many back and are Miami (21-5) and St. John's No. 10 Georgrtown (14-14); "The only thing wr're con­f'orths in the league it conrns NEW YORK (23-7). and No. 8 Notre Dame (14-15) cerned with now is getting back down to where did you finish," .Big East coaches all agree It's a new area for Miami met No. 9 Seton Hall {14-13). to playing good basketball and lw said. "Our conference has that sinrn the league expanded coach Leonard Hamilton. "I Last year's tournament saw getting a much-needed win three top 10 teams (No. 3 to 1:1 teams in 1995, the post­haven't gotten to over Pitt," Connecticut, No. 9 Miami and season tournament just hasn't that day, but I'm coach Kevin No. 10 St. John's) and a lot of been fair. sure it's going to be Bannon said. other good teams. The r.onfor­The addition of Rutgers. West nice," he said. WIN FOUR GAMES oN FOUR STRAIGHT DAYS, "The upper­ence deserves as many bids as Virginia and Notre Dame "Each year there classmen will possibln. Providence and
,yo 

EVEN FOR A TERRIFIC BASKETBALL TEAM, IS ONE
forced the change in the tour­are different goals remind the oth­Hutgers can play their way in." naml:' ntformat to include a and this year we're HECK OF AN ACCOMPLISHMENT. I JUST DON'T KNOW IF ers of last year Georgntown, which won its fourth day of competition for all going in thinking we and we may opener ovrr Miami last ymlr as
MANY TEAMS HAVE EVER DONE THAT. THE EXTRA DAY
but the top three scPds. To a have a legitimate watch a little a 13th seed, nePd1!d a f'irst­man. the coaches agree the chance of OF REST FOR US WILL BE GOOD. FROM TRYING TO WIN tape of it. but I rnund win to keep its 2!i-yrar champion will always be one of winning the title want them to postseason streak alive hncausn
THE BIG EAST AND PLAYING THE FOLLOWING WEEK, ITS
the tPams that only plays three because of Lhe extra have a a team cannot be invited to the games. day. Maybe not a A HUGE ADVANTAGE.' different atti­NIT with a sub-.500 record. "To win four games on four day of rest, but one JJM CALI/OUN tudc. Go in "The NIT would moan a lot to straight days, even for a tnrrific of preparation me personally and a lot to
CONNEC/lCUT BASKETBALL COACH wilb a little 
basketball team, is one heck will benefit the chip on our team," said Hoyas coach Craig ofan accomplishment. I just team. You won't shoulder. Esherick, who replaced John don't know if many teams have expend as much energy in a the 11th, 12th and 13th seeds "I told them they have to win Thompson followi11g his sudden ever done that," said practice as in a game. but that win opening-round games and a game to get in the tourna­resignation during his 27th Connecticut coach Jim Calhoun, extra day of preparation will that would be devastating this ment and they're line with that. \mason at Georgetown. "Back in whose lluskies (25-2) are the make you look better going into year for the likes of Syracuse, We want to go there and win a January, we wcr<) fighting for top seed in the tournament for that first game." Providence and Rutgers as they couple of games." our lives to play consistently. the fifth time in the last six In today's games, fourth­try to secure spots in the Syracuse coach Jim Boeheim We had a good month of years. "The extra day of rest seeded Syracuse (l 9-10) faced NCAA's field of 64. could feel confident his February, winning some for us will be good. From trying No. 13 Boston College (6-20); Rutgers, which came into the Orangemen would get an at­games. Give an awful lot of to win the Big East and then while No. 5 Villanova (20-9) tournament on a four-game large bid, barring a shocking credit, if we do end up in a playing the following week, it's played No. 12 West Virginia losing streak. may even need a loss to Boston College. Still, tournament. to the play11rs for a huge advantage." {10-18); No. 6 Rutgers (17-11) second win like it got last yrar there was so campaigning to do what they went through with 
The other teams with a bye met No. 11 Pittsburgh (14-15); when it reached the semifinals for the rest of the conference. the change." 
¦ COLtEGE BASKETBALL 

Do you lil<e to
Defending champions finally face adversity 
Associated Press "We wnre making the younger guys 
realize our season isn't over," Turner 
LEXINGTON, Ky. said. "We just want them to understand 
Kentucky has been the monster of the the season is not over yet, it's not coast­Southeastern Conference tournament in ing time, it's time to put it in the 1990s. running up a 20-1 record overdrive." whilo winning it six of th0 last seven Unlike last year, when the Wildcats years. closed with a rush, this year's team 
Now, after only their second losing stumbles into the postseason. February since Adolph Rupp came to Kentucky started strong, with succes­Kentucky 69 years ago, the 14th-ranked sive December· wins ovc'r UCLA, Kansas, Wildcats look vulnerable. Miami, Indiana, Maryland and Georgia 
Auburn. Tennessee. Arkansas and Tech, then opened league play with a 35­
Florida all head for this week's tourna­po int victory over Florida. Later in 
ment in Atlanta with more momentum January, the Wildcats bounced back 
than the Wildcats (22-8, 11-5 SEC). from a home loss to Tennessee to hand 
whose hopes of a third national Auburn its first loss of the season, and by 
title in four years have flickered with the end of the month they were 8-1 in 
losses in four of theil-last sevrn games. the conference and 19-4 overall. 
Seeded :'Jo. 2 out of the SEC East, Then came back-to-back road losses at 
Kentucky has a first-round bye and on Florida and Alabama, followed later in 
Friday faces the winner of Thursday's February by a loss at Arkansas and a 
South Carolina-Mississippi game. season-ending defeat Sunday at 
On Tuesday, coach Tubby Smith and Tennessee. 
his players put a brave face on the The result has been widespread pes­
team's slump. simism in the bluegrass about the 
"Obviously we've lost some tough chances of this year's team following in 
games on the road and at home," Smith the footsteps of its predecessors and 
said."'But when I look at the stats from playing in Kentucky's fourth straight 
last year and this year, there's not much national title game. 
difference in the teams. The ball bounces On Tuesday, Smith reminded reporters 
certain ways certain years, and obviously of the relative youth of his team, which 
it wasn't our year to get the proper has just four upperclassmen on its 13­
bounces." man roster. In addition, Smith said, the 
"I have the utmost confidence in this Wildcats have struggled to 
team," center Jamaal Magloire said. "We counter the adjustments other teams 
feel like we can win the (SEC) tourna­have made as the season has progressed. 
ment," said point guard Wayne Turner. Tennessee, for one, swept Kentucky by 
who said he and the team's other seniors packing it in under the basket and play­
held a players-only meeting after ing tough, physical defense that forced 
Sunday's regular season-ending loss to Kentucky to take outside shots. Lacking a 
Tennessee. consistent outside 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prc\>aid. ·
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the rig It to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refi.inds. 
1-800-678-6386 RESORT PANAMA CITY BEACH you're going to see the psychic. FLORIDA FROM $159 PER PER-And he's going to tell you that
NOTICES ILOST & FOUND I FOR RENT
How Green is Green? SON you're head is going to turn into a 
3 POOLS 1 INDOOR POOULAZV hot-air balloon and you're going to Spring Break Bahamas Party Work in Ireland on a Student LOST: Notre Dame Class Ring. WALK TO SCHOOL RIVER RIDE HUGE BEACHSIDE make it all the way around the • Cruise!SNights $279!Includes Work Abroad Program and find out! Description: Aquamarine stone with 2-GBEDROOM HOTTUB SUITES UP TO 10 PEO-world to New Zealand and then 
Meals & Free Parties'Awesome name engraved on the inside of the STARTING $185 PLE FREE INFO 1-800-488-8828 you'll have to make an emergency Beaches,Nightlife!Departs From Call 1-888-Council and ask for ring. lnitials-PML. Call 273-9813. MONTH/PERSON landing. Florida!Cancun & Jamaica $399! Tom. 232-2595 
PERSONAL
springbreaktravel.com JG -Heard about the new
WANTED

1-800-6 78-6386 CANCUN, BAHAMAS Mormon ... nice catch. 
PANAMA CITY BED 'N BREAKFAST I hate being sick ..... Spring Break Panama City Get FREE PARTIES with USA SUMMER CAMP JOBS REGISTRY HV -Come see my new pad. $129!Boardwalk Room w/Kitchen Spring Break! LAND/WATER SPORTS 219·291-7153 Four Days Till Puerto Vallarta!!!!II 
Next To Clubs17 Parties' Daytona Call 1-888-777-4642 to book ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS/ PO -So ya better find out what's $149!South Beach $129ICocoa your trip today! LAKE PLACID FLORIDA SPRING BREAK going on in MY life. Beach $149! VISIT US www.raquettelake.com Keith, springbreaktravel.com 1 ·800-786-8373 SANDPIPER-BEACON BEACH I've got ESP ... I just know that Nighty-nite. 
--.... 
WeJm::;day. March 3, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS page 15 
_-_____-__--_-_ -_ -_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-~----__:_--_-_-_-_-_-_-_-~--_-_-_-_-_-_-_ -_ -~--_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-'-_-_-_-_-_-'--_-_-_--_-_-_-_-_-_-~--------------------------­
¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Country's Garth strikes out 
l'EOHIA. Ariz. First things f'irst for Garth Brooks. 
"You might want to get a helmnt," San Diego Padres m!LnagM krncn Bochy told the country singer as he headed out for his only al-bat in the club's intrascjuad game on Tltt:!iday. 
Fiv•i pitchns later, Brooks was baf'k in the dugout, apolo­gizing lo his teammaks f'or striking out on a neck-high fastball from non-rostnr right­handHr Salvador BndrigtH':t.. 
lie didn't deliver a hit, lrnt he at lnnst knflw what \'\'as going on out thnre. lln oven managed it ('ouplf\ of' foul halls. 
"It was cool," Brooks said a ft•w hours latr.r, when most. of his t«•rmmrntns wcrn long gone­fnr the day. but Im was still in uniform. 
•·1 guPss four out of the livo pitches I was proud of. The last onl! 1wasn't. That's th1i one I'll rmm•mlwr. 1 was there. That's why I was apologizing to my teammates. Tht! guy on first hus to bl' moved ov«ir and it 
was my job to do it." 
After whitling, Brooks tapped the front of his helmet with his bat and rnoUoned toward Hodriguoz. 24, who played in the Mexican Leagues last yen.r, as if' to say, "Nice job." 
Whnn Brooks got back to the dugout "he said he was sorry," said scout Jeff Gardner, who was managing Rrooks' team. "He's such a good guy. He hon­estly feels like he let us down by striking out." 
Heck, Brooks even apologized to reporters later on. 
"I knew what I was doing. He just brought it a little harder than he did the first one," said 
Brooks. who's in camp on a nor1-1·oster basis to live out his fantasy and help kick-start his• ha.seball-related charitable f'ounda!ion. ~He bettered mo. I le shook it off twice, so I knew Im was coming with something I hadn't seen. I'm sorry guys, I npologizn to you, too. I don't know what the hell I was think­ing. It was dearly a ball." 
When he makes a mistake in batting practice, Brooks usually tells pitchers, ''Pretty pitch," ''I'm sorry" or "My fault." 
This was his first real game situation. Brooks tried to take Hodriguez's second pitch to right fiel<l, but f(mled it into the screon covering the first-base dugout. He hit a weak foul ball down the third-base line, then took ball one. 
'Tm not proud of the statis­tic, but I am proud of the at­ba.t,'' said Brooks, who admit­ted he'd be thinking about it for a while. 
''This is going to be my hard• est pari of the game right hem. Because. if every at-bat I remember as well as this one, I'm nevor going lo get to the next one. I got to let it go. It's hard for me." 
Said Bochy: "f didn't expect any more. Actually there was a pretty good slider, and he made contact 1.o slay alive there. lfo probably wish he would have taken a swing al the first pitch la railed strike). But he had n couple swings in. A lot of hit­ters were overmatched today.•· 
Brooks did better w.!th his glove, cleanly handling his only chance in left field -a single by Gary Matthews Jr. Brooks even hil. the cutoff man. 

At just 99¢, this deal's gonna make your mouth water. 
(Not to mention your eyes.) 


Try the delicious new Cheese 'n Onion Melt Burger, right now only 99¢. 
Cry out for the tasty new Cheese 'n Onion Melt Burger on the 9911: Great Tastes Menu at Burger King• restaurants. It's a juicy flame-broiled burger smothered with sauteed onions and melted cheese, right now just 99¢. That's right, just 99ft. It's a deal so good, it may bring tears to your eyes. But don't worry, you can always just say it's the onions. 
L1m1tc<l time only. Price and pa.rtlci.pation ma.y vary. 
The Huddle • LnFortune Student Center 

BURGER 
KING 
It just tastes better:

www.burgerk1ng.com 
Cl lQ99 Burgr..r :Kmg Corporauon. llurg,:r KtngCorpor•ltan II the nclu11ve hccnse.r oftht '"1< rust wtes better" lr~m.ark omJ tl.t rtgi5Lercd Burjl,(r King u.d 6un 11:a.lvi:• logot.adc.m.rb. 
¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Helton gives Rockies power, leadership 
A.,sociated Press 
TUCSON, Ariz, 

lie has talent, wealth ancl f'very reason to brag. hut Todd Holton cannot bring himself' to uttHr words of sr,lf­promotion. 
lnslr,ad, llnlton rests his chin on thn top of his bat. and spm1ks in thP humblr lone of a man who has something lo prove rather than one who represents tlrn future of' thn Colorado Rockies. 
''I'm definitely not what you'd call u star by any means," llnlton said before signing a four-yf'ar, $12 mil­lion contract Tu,isday. "l don't like to talk about it. It's kind of awkward !'or mo. l don't want to be put into the spotlight." 
Helton, 25, £!tn<'rg1•d from the shadows last season by hilting .:{15 with 25 honrnrs and 97HBls. lie led nil rookies in the triple crown categories and finished sncond to Chicago Cubs pitcher Kerry Wood in the NL rookie nf tlw yPar vot­ing. 
Wood finished nine points ahead of Helton in the closest voln in 16 years. While the residents in llellon's honrn­town of Knoxville, Tenn .. absorbed another perceived snub -Tennessee quarter­back Peyton Manning finished second in the 1997 lleisman Trophy voting -Helton moved on quickly. 
"Was I disappointed'! Yeah. For about 15 seconds," he said. "Did I think about it again? No. I just got sick of' hearing people talk about it." 
"If I was going to win it, I didn't want to win it for myself. I wanted to win it for the Rockies bncause they'vn nevnr hacl anybody win it. It would havn been a good honor." 
Bncognizing the talent in front of lhom, the Hockins approached llelton bnforii spring training and asked if' he would be willing to think about signing a long-lnrrn con­tract. 
''It sort of hlnw nw away," lw said. While g1inui1rnly llat­t~ri>d by Colorado's intPrPsl, llnlton was clearly uncomf'ort­abln talking about bncoming a milliona irn as tlrn negotiations played out during the first two weeks of spring training. 
llclton and the llocki,is nvm1tually agnwd on a four­year deal that will pay him $750,000 in 191)9, $1.3 million in 2000, $4.95 million in 200 I and $5 million in 2002. 
"l hope I outplay my 1'.on­tract," llolton said whnn askod if' ho l'narPd the contract wouldbocomn paltry in tho age of exorbitant salarins. "That will m!1an thr: Hocki<!S saved monnyancl I'm playing wnll." 
Tim road to a six-figurn con­tract unfolded slowly for Ilelton. a former l'irst-round draft pick who was a two­sport star at T«mrrnssnn. 
Playing with llw prnssurn of replacing two-limn All-Star J\ndres Galarraga, llelton in his first month in tlw majors, hitting .259 with no homr>rs and 12 RBIs. 
"Thorn's no normal reason a kid with his talent should go six weeks without falling into a homn run," Hockies hitting coach Clint Hurdln said. "It was just classic ovPrtrying and not staying with his strnngths and doing what lw's «·apahlo of doing. Once lw did that, hn took off." 
~ 
--7"-~ ~ 
CELEBRATED EVENTS 
Co111prehe11sil·e Wedding Coordinating and Part\' Pla1111i11g 
SPECIAI.IZING IN LONG DISTANCE WEDDING PLANNING 
I 

CYNTHIA BASKER 
100 N. Center Street Suite 27 Mishawaka. IN -16544 219-~57-887.l 
C"/1 or ll'l'ite ,,,. i'et' in i1mwrio11<1/ 1,1ck,•1 
The Kellogg and Kroc Institutes 
Cosponscm·d witlr Lati11 Amerirnn/North American Church Concerns (LANACC) and the Depnrtm,!111 ofTJwology 
Annual Archbishop Romero Lecture 



Tuesday, March 16, 1999, at 4:00 p.m. Auditorium, Hesburgh Center for Intl•mational Studies 
Spmkers 
Margar!'t Swedish, Rf'ligiuus Task force tln Central Ameril"a and Ml•xirn Msgr. Kenneth Velo, Tiw C.itholic Church Extension Srn:ii.>ty 
St:111/nar 
Romero/Bernardin-Modern Prophets 
Cliairpt:rso11 
Robert Pelton, csc, Depnrtment of Theology, LA!\ACC 
Music coordinated by lhe CentN for Pastoral Liturgy 
-. 
·<­

page 16 The Observer• SPORTS Wednesday, March 3, 19'.J<J 
¦ NBA 

Clippers still winless as Finley leads Dallas, 112-99 
Associated. Press 
DALLAS 
Michael Finley scored 20 points and A.C. Green had 19 points and 12 rebounds, both eason highs, as the Dallas Mavericks kept the Los /\ng1>les Clippers winless wilh a 112-99 victory on Tuesday night. 
Hubert Davis added 18 points and Steve Nash and Gary Trent had 16 each to help the Mavericks to their fifth victory in the last seven games. 

-
Manrice Taylor's 18. points and 13 rebounds paced the Clippers, who fell to 0-13 and remainthe only NBA team with­out a victory. The 1988-89 Miami Heat hold the league record for the worst start, open­ing 0-17. 
Darrick Martin scored 14 points, Rodney Rogers and Tyrone Nesby added 13 each and James Robinson scored 12 for the Clippers. 
Shawn Bradley had 10 points to give Dallas six double-figure scorers for the first time this season. 
After trailing by as many as 17 points early in the final quarter, the Clippers got as close as 97­87 on Rogers' layup. But Finley hit a 3-pointer with 4:40 left. 
The Mavericks, who never trailed, opened the game with their highest-scoring quarter of theseason. Finley scored 10 points to lead Dallas to a 38-24 advantage after the first quarter. 
Dallas was in front by as many as 20 points in the opening quarter, but the Clippers rallied in the second to reduce the Mavericks' halftime edge to 53­48. 
Robert Pack's steal and three­point play just before the third­quarter buzzer gave Dallas an 82-69 lead entering the final period. 
Heat 85, Knicks 84 
Alonzo Mourning scored 28 points, Patrick Ewing missed a 14-footer as time ran out and the Miami Heat edged the New York Knicks 85-84 in overtime Tuesday. 
Ewing had a season-high 31 points and 16 rebounds. But he also missed two shots and com­mitted a turnover in the final two minutes in regulation, then missed a potential game-win­ning jumper over P.J. Brown. 
The Knicks fell 1 1/2 games behind second-place Miami in the Atlantic Division. The Heat have won nine of their last 10 games. 
There were 17 lead changes, including five in overtime. Terry Porter scored Miami's last four points, including two free throws with 55 seconds left for the game's final points. 
Dan Majerle helped limit New York's Allan Houston to six points, 12 below his average, on 3-for-15 shooting. 
Tim Hardaway, who returned after missing one game because of a hyperextended knee, had17 points for the Heat. Larry Johnson scornd 19 for New York. 
The Knicks, playing their third game in as many days. struggled offensively after a fast start. They shot 50 percent in the first half and 26 percent the rnst of the game.

.... 
Porter's basket putting Miami ahead 83-82 with 2:12 left. Charlie Ward hit a runner for NewYork, but Porter's free throws put the Heat ahead for good. 
Mourning blocked a shot by Ewing, but the Knicks got the ball back with 12 seconds left. 
Ewing got the ball on the wing and moved into the lane, but his jumper bounced ofT the rim and Mourning rebounded at the buzzer. 
Hardaway's :{-pointer gave Miami a 78-7& lead with L57 left in regulation, but Houston's jumper tied the game with 34 seconds to go. In the final sec­onds of regulation, Ewing missed a 12-foot and the Heat missed four shots, including three by Mourning. 
Trail Blazers 102, 
Jazz 100 
Rasheed Wallace scored 22 points and sank two free throws with 17 seconds left in the sec­ond overtime Tuesday night as the Portland Trail Blazers fought off the Utah Jazz 102-100. 
Portland prevai!Pd in the matchup of the teams with the two best records in the NBA, improving to 6-0 at home and 10-3 overall. The Jazz dropped to 11-3, their only losses coming on the road. 
After Wallace's free throws, Utah's Greg Foster got the ball near the basket, but couldn't get out of traffic. He was called for traveling with 3.2 seconds left. The Blazers' Damon Stoudamire was fouled and made one of two free throws, giving Utah a chance to win with a 3-pointer, 
After a timeout, Isaiah Hider tipped away the inbounds pass as time ran out, touching off a ticker-tape celebration on the court. 
Rider scored five straight 
points during a key stretch of 
the second extra period. He hit 
an open jumper to tie the game 
at 96 with 3-.42 to go. He then hit 
a 3-pointer with 3:12 left. 
Rider finished with 18 points 
as seven Blazers scored in dou­
ble figures. 
A jumper by Poster and a 
layup by Bryon Russell pulled 
Utah to 100-99 with 35,3 sec­
onds left, but Wallace got fouled 
at the other end on a move to 
the basket. He was 10-of-12 
from the line. 
Jeff Hornacek scored 23 points 
on 10-for-13 shooting to lead the 
Jazz. and Karl Malone added 20. 
John Stockton had 15 points and 
eight steals. 
The Blazers had a chance to 
win it at the end of regulation. 
but Walt Williams missed an 
open 3-pointer. Russell grabbed 
the rebound, bul couldn't get off a shot to leave it tied at 90, 

In the first overtime, one of Malone's patented turnaround jumpers went long, and Hider grabbed the rebound to force a second extra period at 94-94. 
Stoudamire, who played a game-high 55 minutes, had 13 points and eight assists on 5-of­16 shooting. Hrian Grant had 13 points and 12 rebounds. 
The game was a physical one worthy of two first-place teams, but the intensity led to scores of mistakes. Utah had 25 turnovers. while the Blazers had 
23. Portland shot just 39 per­cent, but outrebounded the Jazz 45-37. 
The Jazz jumped to a 94-90 lead in the first overtime on two free throws by Malone and a quick jumper by llornacek with 
1:58 to go. Wallace's drive past Thur! Bailey cut it to 94-92. 
A jumper by Stoudamire tied it at 94 with 20 seconds to go. Portland came back from a four­point deficit in the last 1 :45 to tie it at 90 heading into overtime. 
The Jazz led 86-80 with 3:07 left, but Portland rallied with an emotional burst. Rider hit a 3­pointer, and Grant had a dunk and a free throw to make it 88­86 with 2:01 left. A turnaround by Wallace later cut the lead to two, and the Jazz turned it over on their next possession. 
Wallace picked it up and got the ball to Rider, who drove for a layup that tied it 90-90 with 
~@UJIB. CG!IR&.IIDIE 
46.5 seconds left. 

The teams stayed close in the first half, and Utah used its trademark crisp passing and shot 50 pf'rcent. But the Blazers outreboundcd the Jazz 20-12 and Walt Williams hit 3-of-3 from 3-point range as the Blazers trailed by only 46-45 at halftime. 
Spurrs 99, Rockets 82 
Tim Duncan had 23 points ruid 14 rebounds and two former Houston players helped the San Antonio Spurs beat the Rockets 99-82 Tuesday night. 
The Spurs permitted the Rockets only two brief early leads and sped to a 53-37 half­time edge, led by former Hockets guard Mario Elie, who hit 15 first-half points, but sat out the second half with a strained left hamstring. 
The Rockets' last lead was 28­27 with 8:54 to go in the second quarter. From that point the Spurs outscored Houston 26-9 the rest of the period for their 16-point halftime lead. 
The Ror.kets rallied briefly in the third quarter, cutting San Antonio's lead to 60-51 with 4:54left, but the Spurs took a 71­58 edge into the fourth quarter. 
Avery Johnson, who played with the Rockets during the 1991-1992 season, hit eight of' his 18 points in the first five minutes of the final period. 

At Davisson you get the help you need to get your work done. 

keeping the llockets from gain­ing ground. He addr,d a season­high l 3 assists. 
All five Spurs starters scored in double figures. David llobinson joined Elie with 15 points and Sean Ellioll added 12. 
Scottie Pippen Jr,d Houston wilh 21 points and llakeem Olajuwon had 12 points and 11 rebounds. Charl1$ Barklny, play­ing his second game since com­ing off the injury list., had 16points and sLx rebounds. 
Wizards 97, Hawks 77 
Washington ended a four­game losing streak Tuesday night as Mitch Hichmond scored 28 points to lead the hot-shoot­ing Wizards to a 97-77 victory over the Atlanta llawks. 
Juwan Howard added 20 points and Rod Strickland had 18 as the Wizards shot 42-for-71 (59 percent) for the game. Grant Long led Atlanta with 17 points and Anthony Johnson added 14. 
Richmond scored 13 when Washington OtJtscorcd /\tlanla 35-11 during a 13:32 stretch spanning the second and third periods. The Wizards took their biggest lead at 69-45 after llrn teams were tied at 32. 
The Wizards ended the half on an 18-5 run for a 50-37 lead at intermission. The Wizards shot 68 percent in the opening half (23-for-34) with Hichmond lead­ing the way with 14. 

Davisson Cluster 2nd Floor O'Shag 

H 16 1999 
IVlARC ' 
s·OO ?·1'1'· 
. center Jovce ditorium 
football AU 

\X!ed11csday, March 3, 1999 The Observer • SPORTS 
¦ NBA 
Pistons run over deflated Bulls 
CIUCAGO This is bad, even ror the Chirago Bulls. 
Thn Detroit Pistons handed the Bulls their worst loss ever at th,1 Unitr.d Center on Tuesday night, beating them 108-78. The previous low was an 18-point loss to Philadelphia last week. 
Before tl1is seas'on, the Bulls ( 4-·1 I) hadn't lost hy more than 14 ut home. And that 77-63 loss to Cleveland came in 1994-<JS, wherr Michael .Jordan was rolin1d. 
It was DC'troit's fil'st victory 
in Chicago since March 1990, back whon the Bad Boys ruled the NBA and the Bulls were just another one of their vic­tims. Joe Dumars is the only Piston still left from the 1990 squad, which won a second straight \JBA title. 
Detroit (9-6) had six players in double figures. led by Grant Hill's 17 points. Dumars kept up his hot streak since coming off the injury List {hamstring), scoring 16 points on 4-of-8 f'rom 3-point range. The Pistons are 5-0 since Dumars' return. 
Rookie Corey Bonjamin led three Bulls in double figures With 15 points, B1,.1t the Bull;; were hurt ....:.. again·.;....• by disc · mal shooting. They were, just 31-of-82 (38 percent) from the floor, and they had more dry spots than the Dead Sea. 
They were scureless LO siart the srcond half as Detroit ripped off a 10~0 run, They didn't score their f'itst field goal of. thr fourth quartor until there was just 5:2.8 left to play. Their offensive woes were summod up iri one play: Randy Brown fed Brent Barry for what should have been an easy runn(\r with 1 :06 left in the first half, but the ba!I rolled around the rim and fell off. 
Looking for a great job for your senior year? 

The Alumni-Senior Club is now accepting Bartender and D.J. applications. 
Apply today at the Student Activities Office (315 LaFortune) 
for the best job on campus!! 
Applications Deadline : March 26 

Saint Mary•s Students... 

Lookin2 for a way to be INVOLVED on campus next Year 
& 
Have some FUN? Become a member of 
SAB

**Chairwomen Positions available include:** 
Comedy Cultural Entertainment Movies and Munchies 
Treasurer Marketine School SPirit Speakers Traditional f vents 

APPiications Available at Haaear Front Desk Due Fridav, March 5 
page 17 

¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEHALL 
Cepeda, four others make Hall of Fame 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. Orlando Ccpnda broke down and cried_ 
"Some times, when things come 1rnsy for you," Im said, suvoring his e!Pction to basf'­ball's Hall of Fame, "you tend to take them for granted." 
The Baby Bull's selection Tuesday by Veterans Committee was especially emotional because it vvas anything but an easy journey from the ghnttos or Puerto Rico to Cooperstown. 
Overshadowed much of' his career by a trio of te:ammatos ­Willie Mays, .Willie McCovey and Juan :vlarichal -also destined for enthronement, Coprrla ovor­camc the stigma of a drug con­viction that cast susµkion about his character. 
"It's hard to explain the 1'1mling ... I've been really for this liir 1 7 years," (epeda said at San Francisco's 3Com Park, callod Candlestick when Im was tlw Giants first baseman. "\\'hen they told me I was selected, I lost mv mind." 
Former umpire Nestor Chylak, turn-of-the-century manager Frank Selee and Negro Leagues pitcher Smokey Joe Williams also were selected by the 12­mem ber Veterans panel that included Marichal, Tod Williams and Stan Musial. 
Among the formor players, managers and exocutives receiv­ing support. but not the necr,s­sary nine votes for election, were Bill Mazeroski, Dom DiMaggio. Joe Gordon, Bowie Kuhn, Dick Williams and Whitey Herzog. 
Cepeda, 61, was a .297 career hitter with 379 homers and 1,365 RBIs. Now a community relations representative for the Giants, his team had a presfmt for him -they announced tlrn retirement of his No. 30 jersey. 
"I played ball for 17 years," Cepeda said. "l'vp, been through good things, bad things, but I was very blessed to be born with the talent to play baseball, to leave the ghettos of Puerto B.ico and come to San Francisco, the city I love so much." 
Marichal, who played with Cepeda on some of tlrn great Giants teams in the 1%Os, said it was special for him to be part of the push to get his ldcnd ovnr the top. 

Cepeda missed by just stwen votes in Urn BBW/\/\ election five years ago, his linal try with the writers. I le camn close last year in \'oting by the Vot,irans. 
"Orlando is a good human being," Marichal said. "I folt so bad when he missed by seven­votes ... bee a us(~ I know what this means to him." 
Family and frhmcls gatherncl at Cepoda's California homri to await thn nows. "It soundncl like New Year's Evn on Broadway," committee chairman Jo<' Brown said. "Tlw room apparnntly erupted." 
CepNla was tlw NL's rookin of tlH! y1\ar in 1958 with San Fnrncisco and tlll' lnagun's first 
-

unanimous MVI' in !Wi7 with Sl. Loub. The first baseman hit over .:mo ninn times and played in nine All-Star games. 
lie was arrested at an airport in 1975 on charges or trying to pick up I(,0 pounds or marijua­na, lie was sentnncnd to f'iv,~ yrwrs and snrvnd JO months, punishment widoly lwli<W<'ci to have worked against him in pn•· vious bids for the I lall. 
"I think that probably did pn•­vent him from being votPd in by tlw writers," said Allen Lewis, a retii-ed sportswritnr and commit­tee member. "Surn, he made a mistake and served limo. But since he got out, hn's spm1t most of his time hnlping peoplo." 
One-time National Lnague president Bill White, another former teammate on the Veterans Committee, concurrnd that Cepeda has liwd an exern­plary life since the brush with the law. 
"llc's a good man. llc's worked extremely hard for the Giants in the community. I le 1<1c­tures kids on what to do and vvhat not to do," White said. 'Tm glad for him." 
CepPda's ratlwr, Pedro, was called "The Bull" and also the "Babe Huth ol' Ptmrto Hico." 
Cepeda ,10111s Bolrnrto Clemente as the only flail of Famers born in Puerto Hico. 
Chylak, the eighth umpin1 cloctnd to the llall, workPd in the American L<>agtw rrom 1954-78 and called livn World Series and six All-Star ganws. lln died in 1982. 
Sdee ma,rngPd from 18')() to 1905 in tlw National League with Boston and Chicago, and had a winning p1\rcentagn or .598. I(() died in 1901). S1dee, who won 1,284 gamns in 1fl sea­sons, becanrn tlw 15th rnanagm· elected to the I lall. 
Williams, also nicknamed "Cyclone," pitched l'rom I<Jl 0-32 with several tnams, including the Ilomosteacl Grays and Now York Lincoln c;iants. !11\ was 1-rPditPcl with a wi11ningpPrc1rntage or .624. Ile died in l<J4<i. 
Williams was tlw Ihth playPr Plnctnd for his acromplishnwnts in the Negro Lnagtws. A tmwr­ing right-hamfor with a rnputa­tion for a lively fastball and impeccable control. lw compi11•d a record of 22-7 with 12 shutouts against whitn tnams rrom 1912-32. 
"lie had a gr<',tl fast.ball and ho was nrnan, too. IIP'd mow you off the plat11," said 1·ommit­tce nwmber 13urk 0'Nl'il, a l'or­In<'r Negro l.cagui>s star who saw tlrn 6-f'oot-4, 200-pound Williams pitch but 11PvPr fac1\d him as a battnr. 
Thn Veterans pannl was down to 12 from iL'i usual 15 bccause of' thP rctirnnrnnt or longtime executive Buzzin Bavasi and the health or writer I.oonard Koppdt and I fall of' Fanw 

--...--------·--...-­
Tourney 
continued from page 24 
page 18 
man defense that prevented the Irish from taking the outside shots. For a team that averages 16 three-point attempts per game. Notre Dame displayed lvey's absence with only seven tires. 
Even \\'ith its Big East champi­onship game-record 96 points, Connecticut's defense won the game. 
"ti's our defense that wins games for us," said Auriemma. ''It's hard to play us and I.Jeat us al full strength. especially when [Notre Dame] doesn·t have IVPy." 
Tlw lluskies capitalized on Ivev's absence from the opening tip:off With freshman Sherisha llills starting in her place, Auriemma's defense targeted outside shooter Sheila McMillen, keeping her to just 2-of-7 shoot­

-
ing from tile field. 
"They put a lot of pressure early on," said McMillen. "And I think early on wfl just didn't adjust right away." 
By the time they worked to spread the defcnsf-, Connecticut had alreadv handed the Irish a double-digit deficit -one they could not overcome. 
Unable to pose much of a threat outside, the Irish relied heavily on their post players ­Ruth irncy, Kelley Siemon and Julie lfonderson -to generate 43 of the team ·s points. 
Other than Henderson·s nine points. the usually hot Irish bench went cold Tuesday. It contributed only four points to Notre Dame's effort. 
McMillen never rested Tuesday night, playing all 40 minutes. Riley was also on the court for most of the game, only coming out late in the second half because of foul trouble. 
Women 
continued from page 24 
all-tournament team honors, but their effort wasn't enough to lift the Irish to an upset vic­tory. 
"Our defense was pretty good. but Notre Dame made it look bad at times when thf!V attacked the basket." said Auriemma. "We were able to keep the pressure on the whole game though and we took advantage of the opportu­nities wo got." 
UConn's Ralph finished with 19 points and 10 assists while 


The Observer/Liz Lang 
Despite playing almost the entire game, Ruth Riley was unable to lead the Irish to victory last night versus UConn. 
Wednesday, March 3, 1999 

¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Roses are blooming in Dodgertown 
Associated Press 

VERO BEACH, Fla. 
Pete Rose kept a low pro­file, sitting quietly in the stands at Dodgertown watch• ing his son play in an intrasquad game. He hopes to be watching Petr, Jr. laying in Los Angeles one of these days. 
And Pete Jr. says it's going to happen, later if not sooner. 
UI think I've got what it takes," Pete Jr. said Tuesday. "l plan on making the team. I don't plan on playing .in [Triple-A] Albuquerque." 
And if mannger Davey Johnson sends him down? 
'Tll bust my tail," Pete Jr. said. "I'm going to be in LA at some time. I'm a guy who's got some pop. Left-handed pop looks to be a little scarce around here. I think Davey Johnson likes tough guys. I come to play." 
The elder Rose, tho career hits leader who agreed to life­time ban for gambling, called Dodgers general manager Kevin Malone during the win­ter to request a favor. 
"Pete asked me to give his son a chance," Malone recalled. "I've known both of them for years. They both have huge hearts. I figured it was a win-win situation. I told Pete it would be tough for tJunior] to makl;l the team. He said, 'No special treat­ment, all we ask is a chance.' 
"And that's the deal. Tl1e younger Rose, a 29-year-old whose only major league experience was a brief spell with Cincinnati Reds 18 months ago, signed a minor league contract with an invi­tation to spring training. 
And here he is, giving it his best shot. "Nobody can tell mo to stop chasing my dream," he said. 
"Ile knows how to play, he's not going to give up," the elder Rose said. ''Ile's just now figuring out his m.o," 
Rose referred to tlw change his son went through between the 1996 and 1997 seasons. 
Essentially, Pete Jr., went from a clone of his father to a power hitter, bulking up in the gym from 200 pounds to around 230. 
'Tm bigger than he is," the younger Hose said. "It took me longer to figure things out. I had to make a change, and I did. Basically, I've been at this for only a few years." 
He recently spent a week with his father, and it helped as he entered spring training. 
''It's a plus when you have the hit-king on your side," he said. "He's just unbelievable, a great person, a great dad, a great coach." 
And, obviously, a big fan of his son. 
The younger Rose had his best season by far in 1997, hitting .308 with 25 homers and 98 RBIs in 112 games for Double-A Chattanooga. Ile was called up by the Heds and made his only big-league start on Labor Day, going l-for-3. 
Despite the extended playing time of McMillen and Riley. the offense was unable to keep up with the Huskies, and Notre Dame's defense could not keep the "run and gun" Huskie attack in check. 
The deep bench on Connecticut's side of the court 
Jones added a career-high 21 points as the Huskies claimed their sixth-straight Big East title. Abrosimova had team highs in points (25] and rebounds (7) on her way to all­tournament team honors. 
Notre Dame now awaits the i\:CAA Tournament Committee's decision on what seed and region they land in for the Big Dance \\hich begins Friday, \larch 12 at campus sights. 
Head coach \1uffet .\1cGraw and her squad hope that their 25-4 record and Big East tour­n am ent run will earn them first-and second-round games at the Joyce Center. 

kept the team fresh at both ends of the game and able to avoid Notre Dame's quest for a victo­ry. While the Irish came off the season's biggest loss and IYey's injury, UConn hit the game at its season's peak. sticking the Irish with two huge losses in as many clays. 
Save our world!!! Please recycle The Observer. 


Coming soon... Women·sNCAA coverage 

XXV I I I 
BOOKSTORE XXVIII IS COMING SOON! REGULAR SIGN-UPS IN LAFORTUNE 
Mon. March 1st-Fri. March 5th  $10 Reg. Fee  
Mon. March 15th-Fri. March 19th  $13 Reg_ Fee  
Mon. March 22nd-Wed. March 24  $16 Reg. Fee  

705 Teams is the Guiness record. Let's set our own in '99. 
Wednesday, March 3, 1999 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
¦ WAY Our IN LEFT FIELD 
Behind Bryant, Rodman Lakers lack needed maturity 
By JOHN COPPOLELLA 
S11orts Columnist 

Sports lllustratnd picked thnm to go tlw NB/\ finals; Clrnrlns Barkley ripped them; they just firnd tlwir lrnad coach. 
Michanl .Jordan sat courtside at their last gamn, and Dennis Bodman is joining them. 
Thn Los /\ngelnlli l.akers have l.wnn in tlw rwws a lot latPly. but it's 110[ nccl'ssarily a good thing. 
Sporting a record or 9-(i, !.Im Lak11rs could easily Im mistak­1\n for a d1lcnnt Wnstnrn Conf't•rnncn team. They arnn't playiug as well as thn aging Utah .Jazz or the deplntcd StHtltle Supnrsonics, but those two tnams am leading llrnir rns1rnctivn divisions and pulling away l'rom tlrn Lakers as thn shortmwd NB!\ season cornplPtns tlw first third of' its 
COlll'S(l. 
Crowing pains am causing llw 1.akPrs' collapse. Tlw squad's most vocal lnadnr, Nick Van ExPI. was too vocal and was shippPd to tho Donvor Nuggnts. llis depart.urn vacal.­
ed a leadership spot on a team lacking leaders, which has hurt the tnam on and off the court. 
Shaq uillc O'Neal has been a brilliant leader. lie loads the league in scoring, has been a rebounding and shot-blocking machin~ and has even improved his free-throw shooting. /\long with the Supersonics' Gary Payton, he is a candidate for the league's MVP. Off the court. hn has backed up trash-talking to lhe San J\ntonio Spurs' David fiobinson and Tim Duncan, and has become the most !'cared player in the league. 
The rest of the Lakers, how­over, have not stepped up in similar fashion. Kobe Bryant has attnmpted to take Van lixel's leadership role by lak­ing all of Van Excl's shots ­in addition to the shots Bryant would normally take. J\lthough tal~mted, Bryant's immaturity and setnshness has plagued the Laknrs all ynar and reminds fans of a young Jordan who didn't use his teammates to his advantage. 
Bryant's conceit could hurt his development. In a two-
point loss to tho Indiana Pacers two weeks ago, Bryant shot an off-balance three­pointer with five seconds remaining. However, his obvi­ous immaturity is not ham­pered by fans that chant his name each time he gets the ball. With his new, enormous contract extension, he will fight to get his hands on the ball and not look to his team­mates for support. 
The problem is, outside of O'Neal, no one has asked for tho ball from Bryant. Eddie Jones has been shooting lnss since Van Exel left. Derek Fisher has been more of a pass-first, shoot-last point guard, and this reticence has not kept defenders honest. Rick Fox usually gets lost in the shuffle. 
Robert Horry can hit the three-pointer. Elden Campbell is Elden Campbell. And Hodman is arguably tlrn worst shooter in the league. 
But Rodman's signing is the critical juncture of the Lakers' season. Rodman, with all his antics, is one of the best defenders in the history of the NBA. A tireless worker, he has led the league in rebound­ing for the past seven seasons. 

He is a walking contradic­tion: On the court, he shirks away from the glamour of scoring instead favoring unheralded jobs like the afore­mentioned defense and rebounding; Off the court, he will do anything that will bring him fame_ 
This is not what the Lakers need right now. 
In San Antonio, Rodman divided the team by exploiting Robinson's timid locker-room persona. After being expelled to Chicago for Will Perdue, Rodman ran into .Jordan and head coach Phil Jackson, two individuals who embody lead­ership. Only through those two individuals were Hodman and his side show kept at bay on the court as his life became more extravagant off the court. 
Rodman comes to a l.akers team that just fired its head coach, Del Harris, and does not have a leader of Jordan's or Jackson's magnitude. Even with his successful NBA histo­ry, O'Neal cannot command Rodman's respect. Bryant is 
only 20-years-old. The rest of' the Lakers are either too pas­sive, too old or too scared to try to control Bodman. 
In the words of' Van Exel: "If' he IHodmanl comes in with his great rebounding, the intensi­ty he always bri11gs to the game, he's going to be great for that team. If hn comes in with all his antics and just thinking about Dennis Rodman thn show, he's going lo kill that loam.'' 
Barkley ripped the Lakr.rs for being on NBC "nvery week" and for having morn ontertainmont value than nf'fi­cioncy. llouston Hockets lost to the Lakers, but sitting courtside was none other than Jordan, sitting next to .lack Nicholson, snfckcring at the game he left behind. 
Maybe he was laughing at Barkley and his comments; maybe it was at Bryant trying to take his place; or maybe it was at the fate th11 Lakers face with Rodman. 
The l'iews expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
-


¦ NFL 
Payton feels better 
Assrxiau:d l'r~ss Walter Payton Enterprises Inc, 
"It has stabilized, tho doctors 
CHICAGO gave us official word of that 

The condition of ailing Thursday,'' she said. Payton 
Chicago Briars grea.t Walter continues to live in his South 
Payton has stabilized and he is Barrington home and has had 
sleeping better, an aide said less trouble sleeping lately .. 
Tuesday. P:iyton is sufforing from a 
The Hall of' Fumo running rare liver disease and needs a 
back, the NFL's all-time loading transplant. A number of friends rusher. had b1wn experiencing have oliered theit planes to fly incrr.asnd f'atigur. and nausea at him to the Mayo Clinic in meattinrn until last week when Rochester, Minn., on an emer• his condition "lnvefod off," snld gency basis when a liver is 
¦ MEN'S TENNIS 

Irish to take on No. 54 Spartans 
By NATHANIEL DeNICOLA 7-0 for their second shutout of' Laflin to No. 3 singlns. the nmer­Sports Writer the week and, for good measure, genr,e of' Warford at No.2 dou­triumphed over Indiana 4-2 on bles and the addition ol' fresh­
Today the Notre Dame men's Monday. man Aaron Talarico to No. 3 tennis l<•am looks to continue its Thfl Spartans stand in the way doubles have provided tlw right blaze of success as they travel to of a five-game winning streak, mix for the recent tear. Michigan State to take on the which would be a season high Junior All-i\merican Hyan 54th-nmkocl Spartans. for the 24th-ranked Irish. Sachirn continues to excel at No. 
for the past week the Irish Michigan State currently holds a 1 singles whcro his 13-1 rncord have boon on fire. They blanked 2-3 record after suffering 6-1 has lrnlped tho Irish maintain Iowa 7-0 las1 Tuesday, convinc­defeat to Florida last match. In tlrnir top 25 ranking. ingly <lcfoatcd Boise State 6-1 on 1988 Michigan State ndged J\<lditionally, tlrn supnrb play has Wednesday, smoked Ohio State Notre Dame 5-4, but tlrn Irish been recogniznd by tho IT/\ asGinny (luirk, vice prnsident of' available. 
Class of 2000 


WHEN: Friday, March 19th to Saturday, March 20th 
WHERE: Five Pines Christian Fatnily Center 
Transportation will be provided 
Applications due 
March 4th 
to Class of 2000 office 

Questions?? Call Meghan Trac_v (4-2339) or Teresa Hoover (243-8901) 
have controlled every meeting since. compiling a 35-31 advan­tage in overall match play. 
The greatest challengn facing the Irish this match is the 13th­ranked doubles team of Ken Kigongo and Fransisco Trinidad, especially considering tlw importancn of the doubles teams' scoring in close matclws this season. 
However, since the shutout over Iowa, the Irish have blown out every opponent -even the somewhat competitive 4-2 victo­ry over Indiana witnessed tho cancf'llation of the No. 6 singles match belwmm senior captain J\ndy Warford and Rahman Smiley bnrausc Notre Dame had already clinched the match. Against Michigan State, the Irish will attack with the lineup which was first initiated at the begin­ning of' the four-game winning strnak. 
While the bulk of the lineup has remained constant, the pro­motion of' freshman J\ndrew he improved from No. 3 to No. 2 nationally. 
Locking down Orn No. 2 sing!Ps spot is snnior captain Brain Patlc1rson, whos<' 76-39 carnnr doubles rncord is matdrnd by an equally imprnssivn 77-38 singles record. Matt Dalv -likn Sal'11ire and Pattm-son _: has gone unrl<'­fcatnd in the last !'our matclrns and will fill eithnr thn third of fourth singles slot. 
The other position will Im assumed by Laflin who boasts a I 0-0 dual-match record in lfJ<JIJ. In !'act, the ldty had yc\t to losn 
-

evPn a set bef'orn lw def'eatcd Cory Dalos 5-7, 7-(i (2), 6-4 at Boise State. 
At No. 5 singles is Casr.y Smith, who is coming off a 7-(1 (4), 6-1 victory against Indiana's Milan Hakvica. Andy Warford caps the lineup at No. (1 singles, wlwr1! in the last !'our matrhos he is 3-0. deprived of' a fourth victory only lrncausn thn match against Indiana's Smiley was canceled. 

8 p. m ., wash1ngton hall 
performing works by Beethoven, Gershwin and Debussy 
free admission 

-

. ....._,_ 
Wednesday, March 3, 1999 


Takea~ad 
0 
Trif' With 
0 
Electric 
0 
leach 

aefore you hi.t the road for 
-

take the nearest exi.t to 

THIS IS WHERE IT GETS GOOD 



--THIS IS WHERE IT GETS GOOD 
Wednesday, March 3, 1999 The Observer· SPORTS page 21 
¦ BASEBALL 
McKeown, Stanley lead sluggers past Southern Illinois 
4. 


Speci.il to the Observer 
NEW OllLE/\NS, I.A 
Thn Notro Dame baseball team explodod for seven runs in the third and fourth innings on its way to a 15-5 win Sunday afternoon over Southern Illinois, in final-day action of the University or New Orleans Invitational at Privateer Park. 
Notrn Damn ('.~-4) scored a pair of' runs in the third inning to !'orco a 2-2 tie hrfore taking thn lead for good with a five-run fourth. Senior lefthander Chris McKeown (1-0) pitched three scoreless innings in relief of junior righlhander Scott Cavey to record the win. 
Mcicown scatterod three hits over the three innings while recording three strike­outs and no walks . .Junior rightl'ielder Jeff Perconte 

paced the Irish offense with a 4-for-4 day at tbn plate, four runs scored and two HBI. 
"Chris was rnally the key to that game," said head coach Paul Mainieri, "lie pitdrnd so magnificently out of the bullpen." 
'IREALLY FEEL GOOD 
ABOUT OUR TEAM. 1 
PAUL MAIN/ER! HEAD BASEBALL COACH 

Southern lllinois (3-3) used three hits to score twice in the bottom of the first inning, hut Cavey kept the Irish within two runs in the•second inning, when he stranded runnPrs at second and third. 

SIU rightlrn.ndm DavP Piazza took the loss af'tor yielding sPven runs (four of' them 1rnrned) on Pight hits and two walks over the f'irst four innings. 
Notre Dame tiod Urn ganrn in the third inning, thanks to a d o u b I e down l h e Io !Hi n I d line by freshman catcher Paul ()'Toole, Pnrcontn's Hill singlo lo left and a run-scoring dou­bln to right by surging l'rnsh­man centerfiPlder St1ivn Stanley, who rackt~d up !'our HBI lwfore the day was dorm. 
"I think special rncognition should be given to Stanl!iy, who had such a rough start," said Mainicri. "Through 1h11 first f'ivc games of' his career he hadn't had a base hit. Then on Saturday he had a couple of hits before getting three hits and a sacrifice 11y on Sunday. It was really good to see him getting it going." 
SIU briefly regained the lead with a run in thr hot.Lorn of the third, after a triple and HBI groundnut. but Cavny then worked out of' anotlrnr jam by stranding two morn Saluki runners. 
.lunior lcf'tficl(for .JelT F1dkl'r drove in Notre Dame's first of live runs in tlrn fourth inning, with a bases-loaded single through the Jen side! of' the infield that plall'd sm1ior first baseman .Jeff Wagner. who had walknd, went to second on a fielding error and took third on an infield single by junior DI! Matt Nussbaum. 
O'Toolc tlwn dn>v1• homC' f'reshrnan third basnman /\ndrrw Bushey with a sacri­fice fly for a ·4-:{ lead. f'ol­lowcd by HBI singles from Perconte, Stanlny and Wagner. 
l'erconte doubl11d with mm out in the sevm1th and stoli~ third on a ball-f'uur pitch to sophomore second basenrnn Alec l'orzel. Stanley tlrnn plat­nd P11rccmte with a single and l'orzel later scon~d on a wild pitch bcforn Wagner singl1•d homo Stanley f'or a Io-:1 1rish lead. 
Notre Dame tackod on four more runs in the scwenth, highlighted a Porzel triplo that plated ()'Toole and l'ercontc. Stan IPy follow11d with a sacrifice l'ly hef'orn junior shortstop Brant Ust sent an opposite-field shot 
.. 

over the rightfirdd fonc!' !'or 
his third home run of' the sea­
son. 
A single run in the 1dghth upped the Irish advantage to 15-3, after Felker rnachcd on an error, wnnt to second on a single by rreshman catcher .J.P. Drcvline and S(:ornd on a throwing error. Facing a potential end of' thn gamo by the 12-run rule, SIU canw up with two runs in the bottom or the nighth versus rrnshman righthander Matt BuchrnPiPr, cutting the load to I 5-!i. 
Irish sophomorP All­/\merica righthandnr Aaron lleilman threw just f'our pitches while shutting ,. down the Salukis in order to close out tlw ninth. 
The Irish sluggcH·s trawl lo San Antonio, Texas, this weekend. Thoy will tak(1 on highly-ranked Penn State on Saturday and Sunday. 
"I reel rnally good about our team. I feel like on Saturday and Sunday we really showed our potential," said Mainieri, "The key for us is going to be 
whether or not we get consis­tent pitching. If we do that 
-

we're about ready to put it all together." 
page 22 The Observer• SPORTS Wednesday, March 3, 1999 
¦ MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Seniors Wyche and Hickey lead by example 
By JOEY CAVATO 
Associate Spom Editor 
It ,Yasn 't supposr lo happrn like this. 
Two of their classmates werPn't suppoSf' to leave aftrr one season. 
Younger playPrs WHrn sup­posed lo fill lhr) void a.ncl con­tribute to the rebuilding process, but that didn't happen either. 
The only constants through­out Notre Damr·s first four years in the Big East confrrcnce llave been senior captains l'hil Hickey and Antoni Wyche. 
Neither has been spPctacular, but both solidly played their supporting roles. 
Pat Garrity and Troy Murphy 

.... filled their biographies in the media guide with awards and honors. but Hickey and Wyche contributed thr foundation of Notre Dame's rebuilding. "When I c.tme lo Notre Dame I wantPd to he a prtrt of a rebuilding," Wyche said. "I thought our class would be a big part of helping the program get back to where it used to be. Unfortunately. due to transfers and injuries and all kinds of things. it didn't work out quite the way I planned." "There's been a lot of adversi­ty," llickey said. "ll would have been easy to just quit or trans­fer but that's not Tone and my character. We stuck through it we wanted to be part of this foundation that was the begin­ning of the Big East." Stuck through it they have, and they have also given more tu this team than what one usu­ally looks for in the statistics. "I bet you that together they haven't missed over five prac­
"ThPy want tbe team to win, l guess that's what sets Antoni and Phil apart," MacL<'od said. "Do they want to score? Sure. But if David and Troy and Harold can score and help us win and Phil and Torn' am on the noor they'll take that. It's about the team , not so much about who scores the points. Tonn and Phil both would say they're glad these freshmai1 camP hero." 
Hickey and Wyche have not lead the tram to great accom­plishments such as 20-win sea­sons or NCM Tournamf1nl bids, hut th!iir four years have not bem1 unproductive. 
"These two kids havr done a lot of' things that peoplr don't talk about,., Macleod said. "They've helped youth groups. They spent a lot of time with young kids. They're not full of themselves. They'rp well­respected. How can you not respect two kids who work as hard as they do?" 
After being a part of' all the Big East "fii:sts" for the Irish, llickry and Wyche would like nothing better than to lead the Irish to their first Ilig East Tournament win today against Seton Hall. 
"We had a lot of ups and downs in my four years here," Wyche said. "But I think we made great strides in being competitive in the Big East and think we got better each year in the conference." 
"This is a must-win game for 
us," he continued. "We have a 
chip on our shoulder knowing 
that we haven't won a game 
yet. It is something that we're 
getting real geared up for." 
After the Joyce Center crowd 
gave Hickey and Wyche a 


tices in standing f o u r 
ovation
'WEHAD A LOT 
years on senior
OF UPS AND 
and that day last DOWNS IN MY FOUR Sunday,
says a Murphy
who I e YEARS HERE., 1 o t , " put an M a c -exclama­
ANTON/ WYCHE t i o n
L e o d s a i d . SENIOR BASKETBALL CAPTAIN mark 011 
"Dinged 
up and banged up they continue 
to battle. They have really been 
great representatives for the 
team and the Universitv." 
"They've been leaders in the locker room," Troy Murphy said. "Phil has really helped me out as far as talking to me about players coming up and referees and how to deal with different things in the league. He's been so valuable to me personally just helping me out and Tone is probably the funni­est guy I've ever met in my life and he's a great guy. They've both made me feel at home when I first got here and they've really helped me out in adjusting to college." 
Things definitely would have been easier for Hickey and Wyche had the Gary Bells, Doug Gottliebs and Keith Friels stuck around, but Hickey and Wyche don't shy from hard work. 
They also will accept roles 

-
.. 
outside of the spotlight. They were also willing to allow fresh­man Murphy and David Graves to carry the scoring load. "I think we have to be leaders and lead by example," !Iickey said. "ff leading by example means doing the hard work tliat's fine. I Lhink we liad to give up some sroring opportuni­ties so we could show the fresh­man how to run the offense. We had to do those types of things that don't necessarily show up on the box score, but I think 
that led to a better team." 
the victo­ry. He hustled down a pass from Graves and brought the crowd to its feet with a tremen­dous dunk. 
Graves and Murphy had big smiles on their faces, and when they were taken out of the game they were greeted by Hickey and Wyche. 
"This freshman class is what I envisioned our freshman class doing," Wyche said. "They have a solid foundation for the future and I definitely think we're heading in the right direction. We're right there and I think we need to make that next step to get over the top." 
"Hopefully we created a good foundation that will be success­ful for the other guys,'' HickPy said. "It's great and that's what I wanted. I wouldn't trade my four years for anything. It's been a great experience." 
"Hopefully it just carries over," hr. continued. "It would be a good transition. That's all I every wanted to see was to see Notre Dame be successful and I think it's definitelv headed in the right direction."" 
MacLeod knows that Hickey and Wyche arc also going in the right direction. 
"They're going t() make a C{)n­tribution when they leave Notre Dame outside of basketball. and they already have," MacLeod said. "They've gained .a great deal of respect they've grown. You can't help but really rrspect what they've done." 

The Observer/Jeff Hsu Irish senior Phil Hickey looks to the basket in a recent game against Georgetown. While playing much of his career in the shadow of superstars Pat Garrity and Troy Murphy, Hickey has been a dependable presence on the inside. Hickey and the Irish take on Seton Hall tonight in the Big East Conference Tournament. 
UPPER DECK 
Overlooking the Playing Field at Coveleski Regional Stadium 
COMPLETE BANQUET FACILITIES YEAR ROUND 
Graduating Seniors: Space still available for parties on May 15! Book early! 
235-9985 
OUT DOOR AND HEATED TENT-PARTIES 
*Catering for up to 2,500* *State of the Art AudioNideo* Visit Us at 501 WEST SOUTH 
Wednesday, tvfarch 3. 1999 The Observer• TODAY page 23 
SLURRED SPEECH DAN SUU.IVAN HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
IS 1HERE A JAN£ DO£ /t 5ffi\ rOXTROT BILL AMEND Sur You loll KNoW, OTHER HAVEN'T EVEN JASoN, n-tAT'S LET ME k'tOS Pl~Y CHESS CHECk. CHECI<. MoVEOA CHECk. Nol PoSSt8lE .' CLARIF'Y: Wl'TH THEIR PtECE 'YET! MY PAYMENT FATHERS\ PLEASE. • FoR FREE.'­DILBERT SCOT! ADAMS E 0 uiH£.'( 'SA'< PEOPLE .!:" 50 TE.CI-\NICALLY, WI-\ENg J!lFEAR PUBLIC SPE.Al<.lNC. @) ~.. IF YOU KILL A. GU'< ARE '<OU .,,Et-\O~E THI\N THEY ~., •WHO'S 5CI-\EDULED .. GOING TO.. "' FEAR DEA.l'H. = 0 TO ~SPE.AK, SLEEP?2~ ~  CELEBRITIES BUKN UN THIS maintenance, 000 DAY: Jean Harlow, Jackie Joyner• VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl 22): Some­l<ersee, Mary Page Keller, John one around you may not want to do McLaughlin, David Faustino, Nicolas you a favor. Empty promises will lead Freeling only to frustration. It is best to do Happy Birthday: You can have the things yourself rather than depend on best of both worlds if you are pre­someone else to pick up the slack. pared to work hard this year. You 000 have the stamina coupled with bril­LIBRA (SepL 23-0ct. 22): Dishar­liant ideas; now all you have to do is mony in your personal life will make believe in yourseli and forge ahead. it difficult for you to get things You're the only one holding you back. accomplished. It is best to pamper You must get motivated and take a yourself and not worry about the confident approach to all that you things you are suppoS<'d to be work• want to accomplish this year. Your ingon.000 nwnbers: 8, 14, 28, 35, 37, 48 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Legal ARIES (March 21-April 19): You problems may surface if you forgot to may have a problem with your lover tend to some small but important if you forgot to do something you details. You will have to backtrack if promised to do. Channel your energy you wish to clear these matters up into making things better not worse. once and for all. 0000 ~t get angry without ~ue cause. SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't let someone take advantage of TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You your good nature. You must not allow will need to pick up some additional others to railroad you into spending knowledge. Co to the source in order money or making promises that to get the most current information. you'd rather not get involved in. 00 You will be able to ask for a raise or CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): put your name up for a promotion. You may get your dander up due to a 00000 misunderstanding. Find out more GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Too infonnation before you decide to dis­much too fast. Take your time. You own the party involved. Chances are don't have to make decisions now. you will be wrong and owe an apolo­Don't let others push you into doing gy. 00000 things you would rather not do. AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Blow-ups in your domestic scene are Your deep need to learn all you can apparent. 00 about somethingJou have recently CANCER (June 21-July 22): You become intereste in will lead you should take some time out and re­into a relentless search for truth. You evaluate your emotional situation. may even question your own direc;­You mav want to confide in som"O'lc tian i,., Hfe. 00<' vou rP'1Pect and tr,, ... ,vho ,,dJ1 o-;1•p "''"'T" er • •' • 'c.rch 20): Loo~ 1 '"'u. .......-.::tter unden,wlllY.ill.8· ~ mro all the tinanoal ventures present­LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Money­ed to you today. One of them will be a making opportunities are present. real money-maker. You should con-­Make your decision quickly if fine xourself to those deals whe!" F'll t _~­l....in't \\'tint to miss out. Pro.Ow don I have to rely on someone else. terns with eguipment may set you 000 back if you nave neglected regular  
,.•.... ¦ OF INTER.EST  
YOU'RE DOING ~ .,,E HIM A .~0 C  Resume Writing Workshop -Design an attention­~ettingi:esutne for your job search. This workshop will  
0 ::,FP...VOR.t:: "' GJ g: .a '6  cgver tne use of"power" phrases, common resume t'¼lft'Q(tand mistakes, career objectives, how to write an effj;\ctive coverletter\.and the use of the Resume Expert  
~ g:3: -..­3: :-;;;­CROSSWORD  disk; This workshop will be presented by Olivia 1 Williams, Assistant Director of Career and Plac1~ment Services, today inroom 116 DeBartolo Hall from 3:30-5 pJn; The ~pelman College Jazz Ensemble will porform 
ACROSS 34 It's served in 59 Stratford's spots stream f "Lydia" poet 35Noto'ar so Hint to this 5 Beethoven puzzle's theme dadicatee 36Galoot 63 Like some 1o Dugout, for one 37 One of the Brady plating 14 "Jake's Thing" Bunch 84 Photographerauthor 38 Deposit Adams n"0come,-­40 Galilee, e.g. 65 60's talk show 41 Horse of the host Joe 16 Prefix with Year, 1960-64 66 Beat by a nose skeleton 43-Perce 67 Broken-down 17 Fairy who loved 68 Pink-slippedPeter 44 Abbr. for F. Lee  this evening at]:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. Works by John Coltrane, Charlie Parker. Thelonious Monk, Dizzy Gillespie and Hogey Carmlchaol wlll be pl~rf'ormed. A reception will follow in the LaFortune Ballroom. The ctmcertis free and open to the public. This event is co­$ponsored by the Department of.' Music, the African-American Studies Program, the office of Multicultural Student Affairs, Campus Ministry and the Student Activities Office.  
Bailey19 "Show Girl" tune 45 Risk-taker's20Athome, but DOWNdeclarationavailable 1 "-­a HotTin1 Popped in on249 Like some tennis Roof"courts23-Dame  Help celebrate a  
2Acid type24 Individually so Footnote abbr. 3 Color slightly 26 Noted name in 55 Goes postal 4 Schindler ofcivil rights 58 What "I love" in a "Schindler's 31 Modem ink 1915 Irving List" source Berlin song 5 Suffolk, for one, in Shakespeare  friend's birthday  
6 Legal deg. ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 7-Royale, N.S. 29A.A.A. 47 Zero 54 Fiddled 8 Popular Nicole suggestions 48 Hit the bottle 55 LoafHollander comic :2~ Hoops 51 "-­Passes" 56 "Tristia" poet 9 More slippery nickname {Browning 57 Dance's partner 10 Trust in s~ Literary poem) 58 Compatriot  with an ad in  
11 "Don't bet-!" pseudonym 52 Flower part 61 Bring into play 12 Wood trimmer ~::: European car 53 Lacking 62 Convertible, 13 Sticky-tongued ~;i "Gimme e. CI" etc. substance after conversion critter 37Long-­3" \Jse a keynole, ..;;;.+,.:;..,;.,;.i..;.+;c-ioii,111ir':-+c':-•-..-=-t-=-+:-1-=-1 ::~i:in~ :~~~ii perhaps Answers to any three clues in this puzzle  The Observer.  
are available by touch-tone phone: l-'4-'--'-1--=--+c..:.....:=-+'-_,.__ 24 Mideast port ~, Dangerous gun 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). r-1c:-:-1-c:-+=-tc=-1 25 Links letters 42 Knowledg3 Annual subscriptions are available for the 1-1-4-4-+-~ 27 LAX guesstimate .,"I Certain G.! best of Sunday crosswords from the last ..:....,__.__.,_.__. 28 The life of Riley 4E'. Gymwear -iame SO years: 1-888-7-ACR0SS .  Call 1-6900 for rates.  
Make checks payable to: The ObserverThe Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 Published Monday through Friday, The Observer D Enclosed is $85 for one academic yearis a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's D Enclosed is $45 for one semesterCommunity. Name ______________________ Join the more than 13,000 readers who have Address ____________________found The Observer an indispensible link to the City ________State ____ Zip______two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home.  

-
.. 

f 
I 
l. 

¦ Irish sluggers over­¦ Seniors Antoni 
power Southern Wyche and Phil Jllinous. Hickey provide leader­
IP 
ship to the men's 
p.21 basketball team.
PORTS 
p.22 
THE 

page 24 0 ----------------~Wednesday, March 3, 1999
BSERVER 
¦ WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Huskies' defense outperforms Ivey-less Irish 
By BRIAN KESSLER Assist.UH SpDrU Editt.H 
UConn 
l'ISC.\T:-\W!\Y, 'U Thl' Pighth-ranked Notre 
uses depth
DamP 1,·011w11·s basketball tnam ran into a buzz saw last 
to win
night. Big East PlayPr of tlw Year 
By ANTHONY BIANCO
Svetlana .\brnsimo,·a lit up 
Assistant Sports Editor
tht' Irish for 7 points in the first half to hPlp top-sePded 
PISCATAWAY. N.J. 
, and \C.\:-\ sixth-ranked 
Connecticut won the Big
ConnPrtirut to a 96-7 5 victory East championship with depth. 
in Tut>sday night's Big East While tlrn lluskiHs faccd

tournament final at the Louis a 
numbnr of key injuries whichRrown Athletir C(>nter. 
lead Louisiana

With junior point guard to losses to 
Tech., Boston College and OldNiele Ivey ou_t with a sprained Dominion this scason, thcir
knPP., the third-seeded Irish sixth-straight championship
didn't stand much of a 
proviid they cannot be forcPdchauee. 
out of national contPntion. 
"It's llard to play us at full 

strength. mur h "Thi!;, tnam has a lot of
less when 
sup<irstars," said senior Amy
down a man," said 
Du ran, who m iss<;d nightConnPcticut !wad rnach Genn ganH'S this season with a hand
Auriemma. "Gi\·e crc>dit to 
injury. "In the past, we alwaysthose NotrP Damp kids though drp<indcd on otlH•rs to rarry
for how hard thPv battled. 
the load. but this vcar was dif­They're a good tPam." 
feren l. Everyori'e has con­Notre Dame kc>pt the deficit tributml all S<!ason."
under 10 for much of the first 
While tlwy playcd tlrn game
half. but Tournament MVP 
likn any averagc contest, fourShea Ralph's lay-up with 7:51 
lluskie playcrs -Svetlanaremaining· in the first period i\brosimova, Asjha Jonns.
pushed the Huskies' lead to Sirna Halph and Tamika
13. 
Williams scoro<l in double dig­UConn lead by as many as its. And unlikP UConn's aver­18 in tlrn half. but a late Irish age rngular season game this
run led by captain Sheila 
year. most of coach Geno
McMillen and junior .Julie 
;\uriomma's players werc
Henderson closed the gap to 
healthy and in uniform.
nine just before halftime. 
It was a diffornnt story for
Asjha Jones and Ralph, the Irish, as Notre Damehowever. proved to be too 
dropped its 10th-straight lossmuch for the Irish defense to to the Huskies because of a ·handle. All-tournament team short bench.
selection Jones scored 13 sec­Losing point guard and the
ond-half points, while Ralph leading Notre Dame scorer

added 10 and UConn broke bit weak at the guard spot. senior three-point specialist Dame. The 6-foot-5 center 
Niele Ivey for the tournamentout to a 29-point lead with We had to attack that and we got off just four attempts from scored a game-high 26 points 

Monday night with a knee

6:32 to play. put a lot of pressure on Sheila downtown but connected on and had three blocks to break injury, the Irish certainly were"I think we just wore them McMillen, and I think the poor two and finished with 13 the school's single-scason not playing their usual game. 
down." said Auriemma. kid just wore out." points. record for blocked shots. 
Notre Dame faced a man-to­

"Obviously they were missing The Huskies pressure Big East Defensive Player of McMillen and Riley earned a key player and we knew caused 24 Irish turnovers and the Year Ruth Riley played a they were going to be a little kept McMillen at bay. The strong game inside for Notre see WOMEN/ page 18 see TOURNEY/ page 18 
¦ MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish to take on Pirates at Big East Tourney 
By JOEY CAVATO "WP, still feel we have something to more than one," Macleod said. "You Wednesday. I think we could make a Associate Sports Editor prove going into the tournament," want to stay in l\'ew York. The last three run it would be _great to get into the Wyche said. "J think we have that chip years, three hours after the showers are NIT." .John Macleod is hoping that the on our shoulder knowing that we taken we're on the bus back to "We just have to rnfocus and get .., fourth time ~viii be the charm. haven't won a game in the tournamerrt." LaGuardia. That's not the ideal way to ready l'ur that game Wednnsday," 
Today at 11 a.m. the Notre Dame The Irish were predicted to finish 12th participate in a tournament. We want to Wyche said. "It's going to be tough to men's basketball team will make. its in the conference at thP, beginning of the stay and do something. It would be sig­beat a t1mm three times in a row but its fourth attempt at a win in the Rig East year and they· used that for motivation nificant." something we're going to have to do. Tournament. all year Jong. H the Irish are going make it there. We have Lo come out focused and we 
"WP didn't want to play in that 11 "\Ve didn't feel like wo \.mm a 12th­they'll have to do something else signifi­can't afford to IHLVP a lot of' turnovers." o'clor:k game," senior guard Antoni place team," MacLeod said. "The good cant -beat a team three times in one MacLeod thinks that his t1!am has tlrn Wyche said. "It seems like every year thing is we didn't listen to it. We heard season. grit and the determination to conrn out we've played in that game and we it und we used it but we didn't believe Knowing that you've beaten a team and make some noise. haven'l had any luck yt1t." it. We've accomplished quite a bit. twice is always bittersweet. You know ''We're still getting better and we 
On the other side of the court, Seton They've grown and continue to grow you can beat them. You also know that haven't topped out yet," MacLeod said. Hall looks to change the luck of the and they've meshed as a unil." they're hungry and they feel that they're "They like each other, they like to play, Irish. Notre Dame has won the previous Macl.cod hopes that growth will carry due. they're not afraid. We've gotten popped two games this year versus the Pirates. over into the tournament as the Irish "We played well against them the last a couple of times but we've learned 
The 14-15 Irish are eager to prove are looking to enjoy New York more two times," Troy Murphy said. "We're from it." themselves after finishing eighth in the than thcy have in the past. confident going in. We're coming off a The winnPr of today's game will play conference standings. "We'd like to win one; we'd like to win good win and we want it to carry over top-seeded Connecticut tomorrow. 
I ... 
at Michigan State ,(,..,,.,,' NCAA Track and Field 
~"1 ~
...____ ". 

Today, 3 p.m. Championships Big Easr Tournament
SPORTS 

Friday-Sacurday New York, NY
ATA 
vs. Seton Hall 

' 'O 
..,._ 
Wj', at Northwestern Today, 11 a.m.
at Miami
I 

.
Today, 3 p.m. '·~--,,.I ~ Friday, 7 p.m. 

[ GLANCE 







