
¦ Want to twist your brain? Check out these
¦ U.S. missiles misfired Monday killing 11 
Tuesday

thought pm,zles.
Iraqi civilians. 
JANUARY 26, 

Scene• 10-11
News • 5 & 7 
1999 
THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXII NO. 75 WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 

Prof's article reaches House Judiciary Committee 
By MAGGY TINUCCI New, Writn 
Whilo tlw opinions or most mPmlrnrs of' tlin Nolr1\ Danrn and Saint Marv's communities havt\ had litti"e nffnct 011 llrn illlp<•achmnnl of' Prnsid<:nt C:li11to11. tlw writings of' John Nag!.-have gonn right to tlrn lwarl of Llw inquiry. 
Tlw llousn .Judici"ary Co111111ittn11 hoard statnmonts tak1111 rro111 an article writton last y1\ar by Nagle, a visiting assoc:iatn professor at the Notrn Dame Law School. In tlw piece. Nagle explores con­stitutional issues relating to wlrntlrnr il is appropriate for a lame-duck llouse of Heprnsenlatives lo act on an irnpPadmwnt resolution. 
"It was a bit surprising given that tlwrn was no attention 
¦ STUDENT UNION 
1999 election season kicks off with candidate meetings 
ByTIM I.OGAN 
A"ociatr News Editor 
Tlw rac.P l'or studnnt body president hnals up today when rnndidatns meet with 1dection supervisors to discuss pro­c1~d urn and timing for the electoral prm'PSS. 
lnt.-rnstml ca11didat1!S will rncnivn hriol1ngs on election laws. l'orms for gallwri11g rnquirnd signatures and i11forrrnilio11 about llrn electoral process. Tim primaries will im ht\ld on Monday, 
1:nh. 8, with 
~':11:,.~~;;t,~~~ lllOVing Oil to 
the run-n!T 1d1\ctions on 
1
i~.iday. i:i\b. It is unclear at this point how many can­didates will 1\nter the race. althou~h stu­clont hody vice 
p I' psi d (' 11 l Andr1\a Selak has docidcd 
slw will run_ If t\lcdcd. she would be Notre 
Dan!ll's first fomaln studrmt givcu to such issues previous­ly," said Nagle. "Never in my wildest imagination did I feel that an article I wroto a fow y<'ars ago would Im used in an 
impeachmnnt trial of tho l'rosidont" 
N n gI(\ con tn n d s that. "A Twentieth Amendment l'arablc," publislrnd in tho May 1997 edi­tion of Urn New York University Law Hovinw. shows that the framers of the 20th amendment thought that they were eliminating the possibility of Congress acting at all 
throughout the lame-duck Congress was "certainly per­"This is not historically period. missible in acting during the accurate," said Nagle. 
When the amendment was lame-duck period. They were Nagle cites the appointment added to the constitution in acting within the historical of now-Justice Stephen Breyer 
Borda, Judicial Council vir.c president for elections. "The morn candidates that participate, the better the elec­tions." 
A number of Student Union leaders who were reportedly considering the race have decided not to participate. Those include junior class president .Joseph Kippols and last year's vice­presidential candidate on the second­place ticket, l'asquerilla East Ilall co­president Julie Heising. 
It is quite probable, however, that 
candidates will 

1999 tu entGovernIIJ~~~ ~~~ergn rf1~Ti Electio.n Timetabl.tr pres id C 11 ts
:n, 

Thursday1 Jan. 23th: 
150 Ballot Signatures Due
th
Sunday, Feb. 7 : 
Student Government Debate 
th

Monday, Feb. 8 : 
Primary Election 
*Top two vote-getters advance 
h 
Friday, Feb 12t : 
Run-off Election 
hody president. 
Selak joined with current student body prcsidrnt l'etrr Cesaro last year to dc l'nal former studnnt senators Brandon Williams and Julie Heising in the nm-off dedion. llcr vice prcsidfrn­tial candidate this year will be Keough llall pmsident Micah Murphy. 
Last y1•ar, th1m1 were nine tickets and an unusually high voter turnout; this year's organizers arc hoping for a simi­lar level nf inturnst. 
''Wn're hoping that we can repeat what wti got last year." said Nicolo 1933, Congress thought "they precedence," Nagle said. werr abolishing the lamP-dnck Yale Law Srhool professor period but the amendment did Bruce Ackerman portrayed his not do that," said Nagle. views accurately with one 
In this way, lhn most recont ('Xception, Nagle said. 
"lie [spoke in acr.ordance with Lim article] to the extnnt 
'HISTORY PROVIDES NUMEROUS ... EXAM­he rnpeated what I wrote about the
PLES OF CONGRFSS ACTING DURING A 
in tenlions of the 20th 

LAME-DUCK SESSION, NOTWITHSTANDING THE 
amendment,"· he 
EXPECTATIONS OF THOSE WHO DRAFfED THE explained. But Nagle took 

20TH AMENDMENT.' 
issue with the cita­tion when Ackerman 
JOHN NAGLE suggested that since 1933 Congress has 
V!SJT!NG PROFESSOR, NOTRE DAME LAW SCHOOL 
not done anything of 
significance in the 
lame-duck period. 
Council. the Student Senate 
~~L~dcnt ~~7i~ organizations, as well as the general student body. Several tickets of lrss­er-known stu­dents and lower-profile Student Union members were 
formed last year and. while they were not 
elected, con­tributed signifi­

'-----------------~ cantly to the 
overall deb{ltll on campus issues. 
In order to get on the ballot. candi­dates must present a petition with the names of 150 students to the Judicial Council by Thursday afternoon. This will qualiry them for the run-off election and grant them a spot in the Sunday, Feb. 7 debatP. Formal campaigning begins Tuesday. Feb. 2. 
The candidate information meeting, which is mandatory for all interested tickets, will be held today at 7:30 p.m. in the Student Government otlice. 

to the Federal Court of J\ppoals as an example of this­
"Th e lame-duck Congress approved the appointment even though PrcsidPnt Carter did not evon nominate Brcynr for the court until after the eloction," Naglo said_ 
A more recent exampln or.curred in Docornbor 1994 when Congrnss approvod the legislation necessary to imple­ment tho General Agrcem1rnt on Tariffs and Trade (GA.TT). 
"History provides numerous such examples of' Congress acting during a lame-duck session, notwithstanding the expectations of those who drafted the 20th amendment," said Nagle. 
Ultimately. Nagle hopes that the issues raised by his article will give a little more attention to lame-duck issues. 
Quack, quack! 


The Observer/Ernesto Lacayo Mallard ducks went for a swim in St. Joseph's Lake Monday despite cold temperatures and periodic snowfall. 


University offers programs to help students give up smoking 
By LAURA ROMPF News Wrirer 
The Center for Alcohol and Drug Education and the Department of Human Resources are joining forces to organize a program to help students quit smoking. 
"By combining the Wellness Office and the Department for Alcohol and Drug Education, we can pull resources from both and develop a more comprehensive pro­gram," said Jessica Brookshire, wellness coordinator for the department of Human Resources. 
"We are also trying to market the pro­gram in a different, more creative way," she added. 
The program is intended to aid students who already want to quit smoking. 
"We are forming a class of pnoplll inter­ested in quitting smoking," Brookshire said. "We hope this group atmosphere will help by having students provide support for each other because each individual is expo­riencing the same feelings. Ifthey make the final choice to quit, they will experience the same withdrawal effects." 
Unlike other college campuses where the number of smokers is increasing, the smoking rate at Notre Dame remains sta­ble, she said. 
"However, because students now must smoke outside at Notre Dame, smoking on campus has become more noticeable." Brookshire said. 
To join the classes, students must contact Brookshire or stop by the Center for Alcohol and Drug Education. 
page 2 The Observer• INSIDE Tuesday, January 26, 1999 
¦ INSIDE COLUMN 

Trans­Neptunian Object 
An old friend is in trouble. Pluto, which has long been my favorite planet, is in danger or being stripped of its status. 
Pluto may lose its planetary identity because 
of its small size and  
non-traditional orbit.  Mike Connolly  
Now. I may be wrong,  Sports Copy Editor  
but I thought that the  

'90s were a time for accepting differences and loving everyone.for who they are. Just because Pluto is a little smaller and likes to run circles around Neptune -that doesn't make it any less of a planet. It's just a special planet that docs its own thing and doesn't care what the man says it should do. 
Now, you may be asking who would take away Pluto's status as a planet'? 
The International Astronomical Union. 
As far as I can tell, the !AU is made up of bored scientists with nothing better to do. Anyone who read The Observer yesterday saw the Notre Dame scientists have just discovered a planet in a different solar system. I think this is great. These scientists are creating, discov­ering and enlightening our minds. 
The !AU is destroying, discriminating and closing our minds off to wild and crazy tl1ings like Pluto. 
Perhaps the greatest casualty of Pluto's removal from the solar system would be the destruction of mnemonic devices to remember planet names. My Very Excellent Mother Just Served Us Nice Pasta. My third grade teacher, Mrs. Gregg, taught me this way of remember­ing the planets. What happens if there is no more Pluto? My Very Excellent Mother Just Served Us Nice ???? What was this nice thing that she served? Without Pluto we may never know. 
This mnemonic device is rendered useless and third grade teachers all across the coun­try vvill have to think up new mnemonic devices. 
So because these scientists at the !AU are bored and have nothing better to do than to pick on poor Pluto, the overworked, underpaid teachers of America will be given even more things to do as they struggle to think up a new mnemonic device. 
One scientist had the nerve to say that Pluto could be called a "minor planet" and that this wasn't an insult but instead an honor. How is it an honor to go from "planet" to "minor plan­et"? I don't think people who live in Delaware would be very happy if we started calling them a "minor state." 
But the ultimate in Plutonian insults goes to Mike A'Hearn at the University of Maryland. He wants to call Pluto a ''Trans-Neptunian Object." Pluto would get the honor of being "Trans-Neptunian Object No. 1." This is com­pletely unacceptable. Not only is Pluto losing its planetary status, it is also losing its name. 
With Mike A'Hearn on the job, nothing dif­ferent and cool is safe. Next week he will probably be pushing to demote Hawaii to "Trans-Californian Object No. 1." 
As far as I can tell, this is a job for the PSA. We are dealing with discrimination on a plan­etary scale here. If anyone is suffering oppres­sion, it is Pluto. The non-discrimination clause is small potatoes compared to the suffering of an entire planet. 
The decision on Pluto could be made within months. So I beg you, write to President Clinton, e-mail vour senator, send a fax to Monica Lewinsky, and tell them that you won't stand for planetary discrimination. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
¦ TOOAV's STAFF 

News Scene Anne Marie Mattingly Michelle Barton Brad Untiedt Maureen Smithe 
Graphics Sports Scort Hardy Brian Kessler 
Viewpoint 

Lab Tech Eddie Llull Meg Kroener 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) i, published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a rncmher of rhe Associated Press. All reproducrio11 rights are reserved. 





utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Former students unveil new Internet search engine 
STANFORD, Calif. 

Iloping to follow in the footsteps of' other successful Stanford lnter,rnt startups such as Yahoo! and Excite, two former Stanford doctoral stu­d en ts recently launched a new search engine company, Google.com. 
Google's founders, Sergey Brin and Larry Page, discussed both the technical and business sides of their new company before about 40 peo­ple in the Gates Computer Science Building on Wednesday night. 
Frustrated by the irrelevant results that Internet searches often produce, Brin and Page worked for three years to find a better solution. They came up with PageHank, a pro­cedure that estimates 'the impor­tance of Web pages by analyzing the link structure of the Web. 
"Every single Web page can affect every other Web page," Brin said. "We consider not only [what pages] 
¦ UNIVERSITY OF IOWA Study debunks college stereotypes 
IOWA CITY, Iowa 

Perhaps college stereotypes are left unspoken, but one can't deny that they exist: Community college students are inferior. Sorority women are ditzy. Jocks are, well ... jocks. A study done by a UI professor show~ that some of these stereotypes are simply false. Other stereotypes, however, may not necessarily be totally unfounded. Dispelling the notion that attending a community college entails receiving a second-rate education. the federally funded study shows that those who choose to spend less money for college aren't necessarily sacrificing their education. Research done by Ernest Pascarella, UI Peterson professor of higher educa­tion, reports that students who saved thousands of dollars by first attending a community col1ege performed just as well on cognitive tests -similar to the ACT -as their four-year counterparts did. "They're thought of as second-class insti­tutions, and maybe that isn't true," Pascarella said. 
¦ MIAMI UN.[VERS!TY Racist fliers lead to student arrests 
OXFORD, Ohio 

Miami University police charged two students Thursday in connection with the posting of racist and homophobic pamphlets in the Center for Black Culture and Learning, Oct. 30. Senior Nathaniel Snow, president of Miami's Black Student Action Association and junior Brad Allen were arrested and charged with criminal mischief and criminal trespassing after police received the results of fingerprint evidence submitted to the Ohio Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation. The fingerprints on the fliers posted in the CBCL belonged to Snow and Allen, according to Cathryn House, director of public safety. Both students came voluntarily to the Miami Police Department, where they were booked and released on their own recognizance. 'Tm saddened by this unfortunate set of circumstances," Associated Student Government President Nathan Estep said. 
¦ UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA Police drop charges in frat arson case 
TUCSON. Ariz. 

The Pima County Attorney's office announced Friday two former Alpha Tau Omega fraternity members will not be indicted on arson charges involving the July ATO blaze. The University of Arizona Police Department sub­mitted arson evidence to Deputy County Attorney Bill Dickinson, who was unavailable for comment Friday afternoon. "The investigation is over now,'' said UAPD Cmdr. Brian Seastone. "It's pretty much a dead issue." The attorney's office did, however, hand down indict­ments on theft and burglary charges to two investigative leads in the July fire that caused $850,000 in damage. Brian Ross and Jeffrey Kantor will be arraigned Wednesday in Pima County Superior Court. Ross, a 22­year-old former ATO member, faces charges of theft and burglary for taking the hand-carved ATO front door, according to the court records. 
¦ UNIVERSITY OF M!SSISSIPP! Tornado warnings scare students 
OXFORD, Miss. 

Ole Miss students and Oxford residents strolled under sunny skies and frolicked with their pets Sunday afternoon. The weather conditions were a far cry from Friday's weath­er, when funnel clouds danced through the north Mississippi skies, prompting numerous tornado and severe thunder­storm warnings that sent area residents scampering for cover. No major damage was reported in Lafayette County, according to the Lafayette County Sheriffs Department. But that didn't keep local residents and Ole Miss students from ducking for cover when a tornado warning was issued for Lafayette County shortly before 10:30 a.m. Friday. The warning was prompted when the National Weather Service in Memphis spotted a possible tornado on doppler radar near the city of Taylor moving toward Oxford. Several resi­dents of Old Taylor Place just south of the Ole Miss campus say they spotted a funnel cloud moving over their complex. 

With the rapidly increasing amount of information that is being added to the Internet. better search solutions are in high demand, 
As a result, Brin and Page saw the potential for a new company, which. they have stopped out to pursue. 
"We had something really good at Stanford and we wanted to bring it to the world." Brin said. 
Other unique features include a "Stanford Search," which looks 
through Stanford Web pages, and a large number of cached pages. Cached pages arc comparable to backup copies of sites, so that a user may still access the page even if it is not currently available. "Cached links are useful because if the page goes away or the server's down, you can still get to it," l3rin said. 
While the future is not certain for the company that proclaims itself as "Stanford's next big Internet start­up," Googlfl has a good chance of success because or its flexibility. "Fortunately, we're not locked into any position," Brin said, meaning that they have not yet had to decide, for example, whether to maintain a search site themselves or license their technology to others. 
Google is being backed by "a num­ber of excellent 'angels,' only some of which we have made public," Page said. 

¦ SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
S Day South Bend Forecast _ AccuWealher'" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

Tuesd~y Wednesday~, 
·-51, ,11 Thursday ~ 43 42 Friday W 30 25 
GOLD WARM STATIONARY

Sat11rday , ~ 29, 



Prn1wre:
(Jv·~_f"'v'"•~~.. ,..~/, .\..:..r ., 

® © . C}J ~ E3 [m 
Hlqh Low Shower8 Rain T-storms Flurries Snow 
Albany 37 17 Des Moines 40 
Baltimore 45 28 Fargo 20
q ~ ~~ ~ Q ¢-~ ~ 
,,..,,, ..... ,... ··:," '·i·'•;: --­
Boston 40 25 Kansas City 45
Showers T-srorms Rain Fluff/es Snow Ice Sunny Pr. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Press GraphicsNat 
Cleveland 40 24 Las Vegas 51 
, 
~ (, ii~ • 
Ice  Sunnv  Pt Cloudv  Cloudv  
18 5 26 41  Miami Omaha Seattle Tucson  79 34 38 57  61 29 36 31  


Tuesday, January 26, 1999 The Observer• NATIONAL NEWS page 3 

Man receives first hand 
Clinton will propose $4 
transplant in the U.S. 
Associated Press Paramedic Science at Camdon
bil. to fight global warming County College. LOUISVILLE, Ky. Some doctors have 
A»ociated Press 
WASIIINGTON 
While the Kyoto climate treaty remains in limbo, the Clinton administration in its upcoming budget will propose $4 billion in spending und tax brnaks, 11 third more than this year, to hnlp addr<1ss the threat of global warm­ing. 
Victi prosidnnt Al Gorf1 
said Monday tho initia­
too much. They 
transplant THINGS.' his surgnry,
'PRFSIDENT CLINTON
tive repres,rnts "signili­s1iy they are confi­
ever. But Scott said

AND I ARE PROPOS­
cant new investmnnts ... dent they have the 
doctors that with his 
to accelerate our aggres­ING A RECORD $4 BILLION votes to kill the 
cautioned MAr/7/EW DAVID Sco7T art i fi c i a 1 
sive, common-sense treatv should it be 
that tho I/AND TRANSl'[.ANT PA'!7HNr hand he lived
t.fforts to trn~r,t the chill-FOR EXPANDED RFSEARCH 
submitted for rati~ 
patient,

longe of global warming" AND OTHER PROGRAMS TO ffoation. 
Matthew 

while providing other BEITER UNDERSTAND AND In the meantime, 
David Scott, had a high risk of 
environmental bo1wfits the administration 
blood clots and other complica­
as w11ll. PROTECT OUR CLIMATE.' argues that actions 
tions in the first 24 hours. 
The package of cli­rnate-relatnd proposals includos for Urn first time n $200 million "clean air partnBrship fund'' that will l'unnHl grants to statn and local governments to rnducii grnenhouse gases, mainly carbon dioxide from burning f'ossil fuels, according to an outline of the proposal. 
A snnior Whitll Ilouse oflicia\ said tho monny, which in many cases will be tied to promises of' state matching funds, can be usfld for a wide varioty of programs from rntro11tting buildings to pur­chasing more fuel-etncient or cleanl'l' hurning vehicles. Some of the funds would be wwd to promote public-private partnerships to reduce greon­houso gases, otncials said. 
The initiative will be part of the l'iscal 2000 budget President Clinton will send to Congress next month. 
Clinton alluded to the clean air fund in his State of th1~ Union address last woek, but provided no details. 
The climate parkage, which includes sharp increases in spending to promote energy efficiency, is likoly to meot strong opposition from·c:rrn­grossional Hepublicans who 
ques­A man whose left hand was tioned the risks of transplanting our efforts at home as well," 
blown off while playing with a a non-vital organ such as a The administration has said 
powerful firecracker 13 years hand. Brddcnbach said Scott it has no plans to send the 
ago received the first hand was chosen lmcause he had not 
Kyoto protocol, which calls for 

transplant in the United States. adapted well to his artificial the United States to roll back 
llours later, tlrn new hand was hand and is intelligent, articu­greenhouse gases by 2008­
pink and warm. late and has plenty of support
2012, to Congress any time 

The 14 1/2-hour surgHry, from his family, which includns soon. Oppon0nts of the agree­
completed his wife and 
ment doubt whethor global 

Monday two young
warming is real and say com-

morning, sons. pliance with the 
was the ' IT'S ALWAYS BEEN THE UTILE In an inter­treaty would cost 
second view vidno­
THINGS -THE DAILY LITTLE
the U.S. economv 

s l1 C h tapcd b11f"orn 
AL GORE should be taken to 

There is as much as a 50 per­
cent chance the hand will be
VICE. PRESIDENT promote "common 

have accused the administra­tion of trying to implement the Kyoto climate agreement before it is even considered by the Senate. 
White House officials dBny any such intent. 
All of the programs are fully justified on the basis of being good energy policy and good economic policy, said a senior White House official who has been closely lnvolv(id. in global warming issue. 
Gore said in a statement that while the administration would "continue to work on the diplomatic front to achieve a truly global response" to the threat or global warming, ''we are firm­ly committed to stepping up have been illegal in the United States since 1966. 
Scott got a prosthetic hand and resumed working. In 1990, he was named National
Campus Bzhle Sn«ly Paramedic of the Year by Emergency Medical Services magazine, said Tom Starr, director of the Mobile IntensiveBACK IN ACTION! 
Care Unit at Virtua Health, 
where Scott now oversees 
paramedic training in southern
InT<:RfalTh BzhLe Sruoy 
New Jersey. He also is assistant director of the School of 

in fear of 
g o i n g through buffet lines and han­dling food at parties. Nor was hn able to show his sons how to play baseball, he said. 

"lt"s always been the little things -the daily little things," Scott said. 
Even so. Scott can only hope to gain limitnd uso of the trans­planted hand -able lo pick up objocts but unablo to button his shirt, Breidenbach said. 
"You should be able to get fairly good llexation and ,ixtnn­sion -not complete -and sonrn sensation, but not nor­mal," Breidenbach said. 
People with prosthetic hands also are unable to perform such line motor tasks, he added. 
The only other hand trans­plant was performed in Lyon, France, in September on Clint Hallam, a New Zealand man who lost part of his right arm in a prison sawing accident in 1984. 
Dr. Jon William Jones, an organ rejection expert who assistca Brcidonbach, said Hallam has shown no sign of rejecting his donor hand and has passed the period in which 90 percent of rejHctions occur. 
Scott's operntion began at 

3:30 p.m. Sunday and was com­pleted about 6 a.m. Monday. The hospital refused lo disdosr, any information about the donor or how long he had been dead. 
The surgery required joining the cadaver hand a bit above wristwatch levei with Scott's arm. The surgeons had to join the bones, clamping thum together with metal plates and screws. Tendons were attached and gently tugg1id to make sure they would cause fingers to move. 
Nerves wern joined next, then arteries and veins. 
Surgeons for years have been able to reattach severed limbs f"ollowing accidents, but they had never been able to suc­cessfully transfer a limb from a dead dcinor lo a living recipient. 
sense·• initiatives 
to reduce the flow 
of greenhouse 
gases, principally carbon dioxide, into the atmosphere. · 
"That is why President Clinton and I are proposing a record $4 bi11ion for expanded research and other programs to bettor understand and pro­tect our climate and for tax incentives for tonsumers and businesses to purchase ener­gy-efficient cars, homes and appliances," G,ore said. 
lll addition· to·· the clean air furid, the administration pack­age includes $1.4 billion in spending for research and developmontinto more ener­gy"-efficient teqhnologies _and renewable energy programs such as solar and wind power, a 34 percent increase over such spending this year. 

rejected in the next year, forc­ing Scott to take powerful anti­rejection drugs that suppress the immune systHm and increase the risk of infection, cancer and death. Scar tissue could develop, snagging the spliced tendons. 
"The real battle and unknown starts now." said Dr. Warren Breidenbach, who led the sur­gical team at Jewish llospital. · Breidenbach said first signs were good for Scott, 3 7. The "hookup" of veins and arteries had worked, providing blood for the hand to turn pink. 
Scott was delighted. When bandages arc pulled back and the hand is revealed, "'he stares at it and grins," his friend James Brown said. 
Scott, a paramedic, lost his dominant hand in a Dec. 23, 1985, blast from an M-80, which resembles a firecracker but is far more powerful. M-80s 
RECRUITING DATES: February 25 & 26, 1999 at Career and Placement Services. Open to all majors. SIGN UPS START FEBRUARY 1st. 
..... 

page 4 The Observer• NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, January 26, 1999 


Senate debates proposal to end impeachment 
Associated l'ress  approaching a pivotal moment. put on too many," said Rep. "The sergeant at arms will  Texas met with Democratic Sen.  
House Republicans are expect­James Rogan, R-Calif., a mem­please close the doors," Chief  Edward M. Kennedy of  
WASHINGTON The Senate closed its doors Mondav to debate a Democratic  ed to produce a formal proposal bers of the House team prosecut­Justice William Rehnquist for witnesses on Tuesday, to be ing the president. ordered as soon as the roll call voted on after the Democratic Prosecutors and defense had been announced.  Massachusetts on a possible agreement. No deal was struck on what officials said was a GOP  
attempt to dismiss all charges  attempt to dismiss the charges. lawyers were granted an hour Senators in both parties have  suggestion for a limited number  
against President Clinton and  At the same time, a spokesman apiece to argue the motion to begun to call in increasing num­ of witnesses to be questioned in  
bring his impeachment trial to  for Lott, R-Miss.. confirmed that dismiss the charges. bers for an end to the trial,  private on a compressed  
an end. House prosecutors  Hepublican leaders were seri­But Republican leader Lott which has consumed virtually all  timetable before a final vote.  
pressed their case for testimony by Monica Lewinsky and a short­ ously considering a plan by Sen. claimed enough votes to squash tho Senate's time since it con­Susan Collins, R-Maine, to allow the attempt, and no Democrat vened on Jan. 3.  The day began with members of both parties mcnting sepa­ 
ened list of additional witnesses.  l.he Sena.Le to find Clinton guilty disputed him. In fact, one Democratic supporL for Clinton  rately to weigh a Democratic  
Senators deliberated for 4 1/2  without removing has hardened over  proposal to bring the trial to an  
hours in a rare secret evening  him from office. that period, virtually  end by Friday with a votfl on the  
session as the v\11ite House, con­ The proposal assuring his acquittal  articles of impeachmnnt them­ 
fident of Clinton's ability to win eventual acquittal. announced it would ignore a. written list of questions submitted by Majority  would prevent '[DISMISSAL WOULD when the linal vote is Clinton from emerg­called. But now someMEAN] THAT CHARGES ing from the trial Republican senators,OF PERJURY [AND]unscathed if the 67 too, are puh!icly urg­ selves. That would have ended any chance of witnesses. Tho idea was "summarily rejected by Lott and the  
Leader Trent Lott and other  votes needed for his OBSTRUCTION OF JUSTICE ARE ing an end to the  Hcpublican" caucus, according  
Republicans. :'\n attempt by two Democrats  conviction don' trial, at the sameSUMMARILY DISMISSED,materialize. time House  to John Czwartacki, a spokesman for tho  
to open the debate to the public was rejected, 57 senators voting against it and 43 for it. A two­ A decision by the DISREGARDED, IGNORED, Hepublicans are !louse prosecutors pressing to extendBRUSHED OFF ..• THESE ARE THE CHARGES THATto wi.nnow their wit· tho proceedings.  majority leader. That lel't: each sidP wondering how Urn roll call would come out  
thirds majority was needed tu  ness list during the SEND ORDINARY FOLK TO JAIL EVERY DAY OF THE "There's a feeling  on witnesses. Hepublicans, seiz·  
pass. The senators began their  day marked an that if' the HouseWEEK AND REMOVE FEDERAL JUDGES.' attempt to hold the managers have their  ing 011 a comment made Saturday by While House lawyer  
closed-door debate after two  support of wavAring wav we've never  Gregory Craig, dispatchnd sever­ 
final hours of argumnnts by the  Republican senators HEIVRY HYDE goi~g to get a bipar­ al questions to the White House  
White Ilouse and House prose­cutors on the question of dis­ whose votes will he CHAIRMAN, HousF JUD!C!AllY COMMIT/FE tis an conclusion." crucial when the Democratic Sen.  for the president's "personal response, in writing, and undPr  
missal.  roll is called. Richard Durbin of  oath."  
The Senate was reconvening at  Ms. Lewinsky remains at the Democrat, Russell Feingold of lllinois told reporters bcifore the  The questions dealt with issues  
noon EST on Tuesday, when it  top of the list, House officials Wisconsin, sought unsucr.essfully day's trial session.  including Clinton's testimony in  
may turn its attention to tho sub­ said, and there is continued during the day Lo have the effort Republicans, too, favor biparti­ his deposition in the Paula Jones  
ject of possible witnesses.  interest in seeking testimony to dismiss separated into two sanship, but not at any price.  lawsuit and before Independent  
Rep. Henry Hyde, the lead  from Betty Currie, the presiden­votes, one for each article of "There ought to be a way to  Counsel Kenneth Starr's grand  
prosecutor, told the Senate that  t's secretary. Additional consid­impeachment, thereby leaving have an exit strategy that's hon­ jury.  
dismissal would mean that  eration is being given to adding open the question of how he orable," said Alaska Sen. Ted  White House spokesman Joe  
"charges of perjury, obstruction  presidential friend Vernon might vote. Stevens.  Lockhart said questions to the  
of justice are summarily dis­ Jordan to the list, or perhaps a At the same time, Democrats At least one stab at bipartisan­ president are "not called for in  
missed, disregarded, ignored,  White House aide, either chief of expressed confidence they could ship was made during the day,  the Senate procedure" and  
brushed off, and these are  staff John Podesta or Sidney produce enough votes to make it as GOP Sen. Phil Gramm of  Clinton won't answer them.  
charges that send ordinary folk  Blumenthal. clear that Clinton will eventually  
to jail every day of the week and  The officials, who spoke on be acquitted on the impeach­ 
remove foderal judges."  condition of anonymity, said the ment charges. It takes a majority  
There will be continuing con­ idea of trying to question vote to dismiss the charges, but  
tention about Clinton's case. he  Kathleen Willey had been two-thirds to convict the presi­ 
said, unless the articles of  dropped, as had the idea of sum­dent.  
impeachment themselves are  moning any of a handful of The bid to open deliberations,  
brought to a vote.  other, less well-known women led by Democratic Sens. Tom  
"The case cannot be made. It  who have alleged that Clinton Harkin of Iowa and Paul  
is time to end it," countered  made unwelcome sexual Wellstone of Minnesota, drew  
Nicole Seligman. a private attor­ advances. House prosecutors the support of 40 Democrats and  
ney who has long represented  had long sought their testimony three Republicans. Opposed  
Clinton and is part of his  to see whether Clinton or associ­were 52 Republicans and five  
impeachment defense team.  ates tried to intimidate Democrats.  
No votes are expected before  them to change their stories.  
Tuesday or possibly Wednesday,  "We've got to prioritize this  
but after more than two weeks,  and get down to the bare mini­ 
the first presidential impeach­ mum and not run the risk of get­ 
ment trial in 131 years was fast  ting zero witnesses because we  


Summer Service Projects 
. 8 weeks ofservice learning (1-11] 
. $1700 tuition scholarship ~ ';,-~ •, ~ •~ 
. Valuable alumni contacts CONCERNS 
. 3 credits Theology, with possible cross-lists 
. Over 200 sites across the U.S. and abroad 
January 29th -Application Deadline 
:t/2 Pric:. 



·· bershi 
·For January · ft Leaaue SC.I 
··.... ··· 21 at 10:1"' out our We 
,nd.edu 
----------------------------'-----------·-­

Tuesday, January 26, 1999 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES. page 5 
¦ Wrrnw Nrw,.:: : , ·~ Couple meets, weds on radio 
LONDOr-.; 

A \\!(•dding hPtWPPn two strangers who ll!Pf for ttw lirsl ti11w wlwn llwy exchanged vows l\londay has drawn eriticism f'rnm churt:11 !(•adnrs and 111nrriag1• counsPlors. Carin c;PrnrninP and (;mg C:ordHll wnrP marri,id nl'IN wi1111i11g ('lll'h otl11•r in a "l111rnly !marts" 1·01111wtition organiz('[I hy BHMB radio station 111 flirrningl1a111 in c,intrnl hngland. Ht>lalionship 1·m111snlors and church hmdnrs havi· an:11:-wd Uw radio station or reducing tlw institution of' nHllTiagi, to a gatni\ show. Tlw station n1llc1 d th,, competition "Two Stra11gprs aml a Wndding," in rnfor1,1u·.(1 to tlw liiL British moviP "1-'0111· Wnddings and a l·urwral." Tlw t:Pn\nto11y was S<'hndult'd lo be hromlrasl livn on tlw radio but Llw rngistrar P.>:1n·1•ssPrl his clistaslf' for tlw id1•a. saying lw did1i'l wanl it "turnnd into a media circw,." 
Rat killer receives promotion 
IIANOI. Vietnam 

/\ ViPtna11rns1\ farmnr who invented an pf'foctiv11 I :i-cent ral trap was praised Monday by his proviru:ial gov1irnnwnt and twnorPd with a full-time job. Ng11yrm lltm Van is known among his follow villagers as "King Hat-killnr" for slaying 30,000 rats last yP1ll'. Dinh Van lloa, ckpuly dirnctor ol' tho Thai Binh provincial department for plant protPction, said Monday that his office has hired Van !'or $70 a montb lo pass on his rat­killing skills. The pay is substantial in a coun­try where the averagn monthly salary is u11d1~r $]0. Vietnam's rat population has lw1•n booming in recent years as thfl result of thn addition of a third rice crop and the shrinking numbers of rat predators such as cats and snakcs. Until a ban was ordered last y<iur. tlw cats and snakes wtirc being sold to China to make traditional mcdici1rn or be sPrvr.d in rnslaurants. 
Japan approves Viagra 
TOKYO 

l11 a nation wlrnrr. drug approval can take y1•ars, tlw .lapancsn government wasted no timP in giving the go-alrnad to the world's l'asllist-sclling new pill. Viagra. Just six months arti~r N1\W York drug maker Pliznr applied to sPll llw anti-impot<\ncn pill in .Japan. tlw I!Paith and Wt>lforn Ministry on Monday gave tlw rnmpany ollicial 1wrmission tn import and prod11w tho dr11g hnrn. "We snc impotence as a disl•asn and Viagra as an epoch-making drug in its ahilily to trnat it dfoctiwly," said Toshiki 1 lirni, dirnclor ol' the ministry's Pharmaceutical Saldy BurPatL Tim ministry also sp1\d up the approval procm;s with another unpnicedentcid movP-using clinical trial results from tho U11i!1•d S!atns as well as .Japan. "The clfoctive­1wss of this drug was measured according to global standards, not just Japannse stan­dards." said Masafumi Shirai, 

S&P 500: Composite 1233.98 Volume: 
~8.79 77,111.290

9,203.32 
VOLUME LEADERS 

i;l,lMtAlitX Z:l,111 !& aMil Ill~
.,.... 

Mfr µ"t,;i.OFT .:oi;p MSF'1 d.&O •S .fiiso 161.fl71j{, rMAOl N(l:N INl' t!-tON +41. q4 +2.8HP. 9.ii2;()(i IN1'EL CORP unr· • l. 16 ... 1. 7500 1J0.6il'.;fl #\.MAZON ;'OM, INC M(ZN ·8. &4 -lCl,6.lS0 llJ.lAU ,-,ruA CO!=IF CI EN 10. 1) ~2. )7":,0 20 Hl7SO 
t , JHJ'IIO C'OHPU1't~ CPO •1. 49 +O. 68'?5 46 P.1':100 urn BU!io MAt'ltTN IBM ti . .ii:. +2 .2,00 182 .0000r·z.•,co .'iY.<.r~:H'; C-:;]C!J •.Otl •O. 6250 lDJ ,4J7S m.l.!, ~·uMPLl'tER Df'.LI. •'2. 26 t1. R7'S0 J:14.R"TSOO CfTH:ROU(l INC C . 3.1'3 +j .6250 Sl.~5000 

AsSOCIATEO PRESS 
WASIIINGTON 

Expressing official regret for Iraqi civilian casualties, the senior U.S. commander in the Persian Gulf said American warplanes targeting air defense installa-r-111iilT.t:i:~l...,
lions in southern Iraq may have misfired Monday with at least one high-explosive 
• ·u.s. mis­

missile. 
siles misfire Iraq reported that several American mis­
killing 1l" 

siles slammed into residential areas in and 
.' p:'i(

around the southern port city of Basra, killing at least 11 civilians and destroying ._________, several homes. Marine Gen. Anthony Zinni, commander of U.S. forces in the Persian Gulf, told reporters at the Pentagon that military officials had nol confirmed the results of U.S. attacks in southern Iraq. lie lnft open Urn possibility that errant mis­siles fired by U.S. warplanes caused the damage shown to 'Nestnrn reporters, but Im said Iraqi Prnsident Saddam Hussein should be blamed. "One. we deeply regret any loss of civilian lives or civilian casualties or injuries. Secondly, we do everything humanly possible to prevent that, and thirdly, and most important, the ultimate reason and cause for these casualties is Saddam Hussein," Zinni said. "His attacks against us and his history of disregard for the welfare of his own people ... has been well documented," the 
four-star Marine Corps general said. He added that tho Iraqi president is determined to shoot down an American airplane and has stepped up the number and intensity of air con­frontations in hopes of ambushing a U.S. pilot. 
Zinni said it was premature to consider whether an official apology would be appropriate in the event that the United States confirms its missiles caused the civilian casualties. 
Zinni said air crews that returned from Monday's mission over southern Iraq had been interviewed. 
"In the course of these debriefings review we have the possibility of one missile that may have been errant," but more study is needed to confirm the outcome, he said. 
In Iraq, Basra governor Ahmed Ibrahim Jlamash said two American aircraft fired five missiles that killed 11 people and injured 59. 
The speculation centered on the AGM-130, a newly modi­lied, rockct-powercd missile launched by i\ir Force F-15E strike planes. The missile carries 2,000 pounds of explosives and is equipped with a guidancn system that enables the crew of the launching aircraft to watch tlrn missile's path on a television monitor and steer it to its target. 
The official Iraqi News /\gency said one /\morican missile hit the al-Jumhuriya nnighborhood of Basra, a southern port city, at 9::10 a.m (2:30 a.m. EST), and others hit the village of Abu al-Khaseeb 40 minutes latnr noar Basra as well as lhe Basra airport and an oil field. 
Civil defense teams were ferrying wounded Iraqis to hospi­tals and working to recover bodies from wrncked buildings. 
¦ ISREAL 
Netanyahu wins nomination 
AssoclA'rnn P1mss 
TEL AVIV 

Benjamin NHtanyahu eHsily won his party's nomination for prime min­ister Monday with the help of thousMrls of rnnk-aud­filo Likud members. 
But tlrn best and bright• osl of his Likud party, including popu largenoral Yitzhak Mordechai, have mostly desert.ed him .a,nd arc plotting to topple him and grab Likud voters along the way. 
Mordechai, fired as Netanyahu's defons~ min• ister over the weekend. 
announced Monday he would lead 11. new centrist party. 
His plntform_indudes policies pluck('d frOm those of the Likud and the dovish Labor parly: con• tinuing tho peace pto11os$ with tho Palestinians, ter~ ritorial compromise with Syria and a privatization of state-owned corpora• tions. _, _ _ , 
"We are gohig to change the government in Israel. Yitzhak Mordechai will be the. next prime minister," said ,former Li~ud member Ron.1 Milo, one of the founders of the stiH 

unn.m1ecl new party. 
Netanyahu dismissed the platform as being the same as Labor. 
"Thero nn1 only two ways: our way or the left. They have no path." hP said, 
Asked how he felt after a fifth member of his Cabinet had loft him, Netanyahu, standing with his wife and L.ikud sup­porters, said, "I am not nlone." 
Netanyahu's only rivo.l in the Likud prinrnrit~s, _ Mos}le Arens, c;oncoded defeat within 2(l niinutes of the polls closing. 
Although official results had not boon published, polls had predicted Arens would gain no moro thttn 20 percent or th'1 VOt!\. 
Arens. a 73-year-old for• mer defense and foreign minister, retur1rnd from political retirement earlier this month to challenge Nt,tanyahu. 
His candiclacv lost steam Saturday· when N,~tanyahu offered him the defense post after firing Mordecho.i, allegedly for disloyalty. 
Arons snid he would consider the defense post after the primaries. 
page 6 The Observer• INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, January 26, 1999 

¦ COLUMBIA 
Quake registers six on Richter scale, kills 87 
Associated Press 
BOGOTA 

An earthquake struck west­ern Columbia on Monday, killing al least 87 people and injuring nearly 850 as tit top­pled build­ings across the country's coffee-grow­in g heart­land, police and radio reported. 
The early afternoon quake had a preliminary magnitude of six, accord­ing to the 
at the Armenia airport had tumbled to the ground. Landslides caused by the earthquake closed several major highways, including the roads connecting Armenia, Pereira and Calarca with Bogota, fed­eral high­way officials 
said. 
T w o 

( Argentine 
'\ , ..·•· /" .. " !~~c~:-ii~lai~ ( VE~lJELA be members
~-,,.."',( ·... :<' of the 
·;. Columbian
I .
\;, professional 
,t.]{:..\ club A tie ti co 
1..~ _,-,"% Q u i n d i o 
·, wore report-
u s ,"~,~LOMBIA (BfV,ZIL edly among 
Geological ..·J. '" Survey in 
.·...UADO!Y, .. ·. 

Golden·, Colo. 
~ · I/• PERU Its epicenler r_···.___L_ __ was located in westcr·n Valle del Cauca state, 140 miles west of the capital, Bogota. 
The death and damage toll appeared to bo highest in Armenia, Pereira and Calan:a -thrN1 cities near the epi­center. 
"The center of Calarca doesn't oxist. Only the hospi­tal was left standing," truck driver Jose Marcos told Haionet radio from the town. 
In Calarca, 90 miles west of Bogata, at least 30 people died and 250 were injured, RCN reported, citing local morgue officials in the town of 50,000. 
Several aftershocks were felt but it was not clear if they added lo the damage. 
Armenia had at least 50 dead and more than 500 injured. according to the Columbian Red Cross. Radio reports put the death toll there as high as 100. 
Hadio reports said that sev­eral buildings on the city's main plaza. including a bank and the police barracks, had collapsed. 
'There's no way to measure this crisis," said the mayor of Armenia. Alvaro Pulido, adding that thousands of peo­ple had been left homeless. . 
Blood and medical supplies were being rushed from Bogota to hospitals in the dis­aster zone. 
Airports in Pereira and Armenia were shut down, and ol'licials said the control tower 
\ . t h o s e \.,~'"'"'•> /··. ··1 trapped inf /·· the ruins of 
_,..:,;_. __ -·~ a hoteI in AP d ow n to w n Armenia. 
A hotel receptionist told Caracol radio she heard three men in the rubble call our for he.Jp and then go silent. 
One city hospital alone had received more than 500 injured, RCN radio reported. 
Television footage showed residents frantically trying to extract victims trapped below the debris of a fallen building in the city, the capital of Quindio state. 
In Pereira. a city of 550,000 people and capital of Risaralda state, at least seven people died and 70 were injured, police said. Mayor Luis Alberto Duque declared a 12-hour curfow to aid res cue efforts and said the death toll was likely to rise. 
About 200 houses were damaged and some crumbled beneath the impact of the powerful tremblor, police said. 
Television images from Pereira showed several demolished buildings, a taxi flattened under fallen debris and the body of a woman trapped under the rubble. Firefighters battled blazes and smoke billowed from burning buildings. 
Offices and apartments rat­tled and swayed in Bogota, whore the quake was felt for about 15 seconds. 
President Andres Pastrana delayed a trip to Europe and was flying by helicopter from the capital to Pereira, his office said. 
~\ore1:e.e r I fj .
Sn&CUSE
o'O-~~.'<i"'-.-1,--·•
lt~"'v"'f._'$ . •.· t" i
I • . 
0 fl s-f(""'
1\A-{./t!~•;'~s STUDY ABROAD 
~~~__:5:J;~ 
--t7.s-611~~ 
• 
Generousgrants & acadzmic sdwlarships 

• 
Coursework, inter:::;hlps & m,ar:: 


• Business p1"0f(:'f.lms in 3 countries 
• Placement in fore-i.gn universities 
ZIMBABWE • ENGLAND • ITALY 
HONG KONG • SPAIN • FRANCE 
SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY • 119 EucJid Avenue • Syracuse, NY 13244-4170 1-800-235-3472 • suabroad@syr.edu http://sumweb.syr.edu/dipa 
'~bfi hullH-n(jd)ed lfod . . . )<told ters . . .. discoveredfive more eth11ic Albanians-the bm;iies of thee five ethnic.  The Serb center {1.lso report­ed that separatists ambushed a  
two of them ~hildren  -w.ele  Alba.njAQ.s shortly after sunrise  police pc.1trol Monday 15 miles  
foWld Munday,fu~llng tension~  whllPH(J:9nductipg a routine  west  of  Pristina.  Police  
a.t~·~~~:~h~.~.if!l?rrta.ts ,~tpjt< ratr~l:1i~~r·Hako\ii~a..·.i. . . <.,  returned'Ji.re and WQ$ded one  

boi#J.!/; 'sty~ie'd;~hut h()~>to Tli~';/podies· J'd~pUfied by . attacker, who was•iaken toa 
end the cnsis1n Kosovo peace• locals as a husband and his 
fu¥h~. two men,';t.vo boys .a1-1ij, . YUGOSLAVIA 
•OJle, worn;1n ·-a · .ti. to ha'!'e< ,.
hoeh'.shot at c . range 0n;;a,:, ,.~.,..) tracfo.r-traHer , that waif \, ··,,.\ 
t · • fr fi ld ·tr ;,/Kosovska\,... 
re urmng oma, corn 1e . o . '-··,, ~Mitrovica l. 
tile'. tµt.i.in rqa,,d throu · , MONT,......_.,, • -·1 SERBIA ,lta,k~a1 8. .viµ;r,~¢>3Q ,~. r-..f KOSOVO /____ S()l'f:t~Vl;est of. th~ provin• '> • • '·,---. capital, Pristina. ·.·.· .· . ·• i.. _;J. ~ Pristina / 
The grislydiscoveries came. ' \ mm.Im R k 1/ 10 :days after.,'. 45 ethn;it• .. · · L • aca r...: ,.
Al~~llli\flS l.,\le)';f.!~~egedly riI~i;;:; ·" .; )1,, ~rizren . ,,,)~,0·J·<. southern Kosovo village. 
$acretl•tn the Ko$9'Vo\'lllager~f ' 20t11ilet3 .\ ,_,/),\.,( < ··' Racak. The Racak s!aughter. ~ .· . \. { --.· ~ oskopja was the highest toll smce gov~.. ) i ern111~11t troop~· l\rnbush . .. .
ap.9 , ,k.Ut~d,, ,$.6;'. Kos ,.!;\~ED·0 NIA /!oP · Albanians as they tried to . 
gally~rosstheborder Dec, 14: . wife Were found slumped in the NATO officials have renewed cab ofthe tractor. Half the theJ4reat ofajr~rikes, sayi11~ ma11's p~ad wa~}°'Jown away, 
· .tb,e)JiJ{~J~pod 91 ,µ.Q.ic.d rniUfrtt¥) '. J;:nii:ft.W'¥lieU ca.$Ltig$:littered th~ actlpn<was real unless the, ground,cnearby, •• Yugoslav gov(>.rn!llent halts its · On the trailer, piled with hay craCk4own against ethnfo and grain, lay the bodies ofa Alb~,ian separ~tiStsin Kosoy?,' fath~t'~Jld.his t~p.sons,about 
. .IntM latdsl:~:vlde:qce: 9~ ;' to at\ij;:)2 years:~Jct': The fa.ce~ 
stepped~up prep111'atioiis, the'· or all/three were disfigured 
French Navy said the aircraft carrier Foch was leaving Toulon on MOllday ,for tr~ 1\driatip.sea. tt-wll,'} expect;eij'tp bi~ in · place· ·· by earls Wednesday, the Navy said, and ready to partidpate in strikes 
on S~.rh and Yu~osJav target;!)., ' Ethilic'Alhallia form 3cb~t!t'. 90 pefri:mt of ... vo's 2 1nik lion people, and the vast major­ity. favor independence. M9re 

beyortd recognition. All five wen~ i,yea.ring civilian clothes. Ho .n Grunn1:1!; spokesman 
'<iftlf .. ernational monitors. ' said it .appeared the victims. had been shot with automatic weapons. Th ·· ic Albanian KosovoInfo .·• ldn c~~,#~r. quoting 
·uuide.o.t1fied loca;fresidents. saidSerb police fired at the vie­tims fro~ an armored vehicle. 
than,?,900 JJeOj)~! mostly etb.-..•.·. ln.r,.~pqnse, the\~erb Media 
•UK;iJ\fbarJJfln$/~avebeen kill~~., Center'~}aitned 1:he:'1illage,was ' sin<;~"J.'ll'gdslay arj.d' Serb fotc1s' controXled by the Kosovo launched an offe:11sive against Liberation Army, which is hospital in Pristina. 
Fi~nci:l~;o~~~~i:ht:l:~~v~!ti gating the Jan. 15 slayings of ethnic Albanians in Hacak said the team would not release its findings untll it completes its report in FinlantL Helena Ranta said it wastop early to tell when the team would fin­ish its work in Pristina, where it is examining 40 of the 45 bodies. found in a gully in the 
Tho thief U.S. envoy for Kosovo, Christopher Hill, admitted Monday that diplo~ mats are running out of ideas 
· for peace in the region after both Serb and ethnic. Albanian politicians rejected a series of American proposals for the province's future. . "I think we are heading to a 
situation where we have to come up with some very good ideas, strong AP ideas and to see some rapid implementa­tion," Hill told reporters after meeting with the leading ethnic Albanian politician, Ibrahim Rugova, "'We cannot allow this procoss to go on and oh.'' 
In Brussels, Belgium, foreign ministers from the European Union focused on Kosovo at thoir regular meeting Monday. 
''We Want to stop the breach­es in the cease-tire and we want to avoid the potential of future atrocities,» said British 
Foreign Secretary Hobin Cook. "We have got to get the momentum back onto the polit­ical track." 
ATTN: NOTRE DAME STUDENTS NEW PHARMACY HOURS 
Effective Monday, January 25, 1999 
University Health Services Pharmacy 
will be open 
Monday -Friday 9:30am -5:00pm 
UHS prescription refills may be dropped off & picked up between 8:00am -11 :00pm. 
Cash or charge to student account. (Charge & prescriptions cards not accepted.) 
Tuesday, January 26, 1999 The Observer• INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
¦ IRAO 

United States missiles misfire, killing 11 civilians 
Asoociated Press 
Bi\SHA 

U.S. missiles slammed intn res­id1'11tial rwighhorhoods in south­ern Iraq on Monday. demolishing sturdy. slonn-wallcd homes as 
tll!'Y killed at .--t~"'9W,...I..... !Hast 11 peo­
plP. Iraqi ol'li­
• l . I U S • "U.S. admits 
cm S sate . " . I k 
otlidals said iLs mi.~~i (' mim e Air Forc11 and in Iraq" 
Navy jds lin!d p.5 at air ddcnrm ~----~ 
syst<'llls in responsn to "threats hy m11i-11ircrnl't artill1iry lire" and by four Iraqi Wlll'plunes !'lying south of' tlw :t-!rd parallel in vio­
lation or tlrn no-flight ban. 
l'cntagon of'licials said it was likdy that U.S jds t.argding the lrnq i air dnfr11sP ins ta llatinns misf'irnd and that al least two rnissil1is may havn resultnd in civilian dnatl1s in and around the dly ol' Basra. Spokf'sman Navy Capt. Mich1lt'l lloublPciay said 
ll.S. ol1it-ials W<'rt' "still asimssing tlm site damagn." 
Tim missilns hit live areas or soutlrnrn Iraq, including the working-class al-.lumhuriya rwighhorhood on tlw outskirts ol' llasra, Iraqi o!lkials said. 
S1wlirul l1011rns in tlial nnigh­borhood wern destroyed, their roof's cavNl in. Broken dishes and kitclwn 11tP11sils wern strewn among the rubhln. Civilians worknd latu into the night to !'lean tlw dehris from tlrn morn­ing strike. 
i\hnrnd Ibrahim llamash, the governor of' Basra. said two air­crall firnd tiw missiles tha.t killed 11 1wnplo and injurPcl 59. 
The missiles struck in the morning and llamash said most 
Shiite Muslims who rose up against the gov1wnment of Iraqi President Saddam Ilussnin. 
In the northnrn no-l'ly zone Monday, U.S. aircraft attacked three soparatn Iraqi anti-aircraft batteries. U.S. otncials said. They said tho aircraft fired m issilns and dropped bombs after Iraq targeted or fired on the war­planes. 
The Vatican conclemnod Urn bombing raids, saying Monday in a statnment from Mnxico City that thp, military act.ion "conlirms once again" Pope John Paul !l's belief that "military moasurns don't resolve problems in them­selves. rather limy aggravate thorn." 
The Vatican has consistently opposed the military actions against Iraq. 
llamash, meanwhiln, vowed doliance aftnr the attacks. 
"WA will continue to oppose any ovnr-11ying ol' our lt\rritury by enemy aircraft," ho said. 
Iraq has brnm challenging the no-lly zones with incrnasing reg­11 larity since Dec. I <>-19 airstrikes by the United Stales and Britain. Thoso attacks wern aimed at punishing Iraq after 
U.N. wP.apons inspeclors rolcasecl a rnport saying that Baghdad was obstructing their work. 
Tho British Defense Ministry said its warplanes were not involvnd in the latest attacks. 
On Sunday, U.S. aircraft fired on two surface-to-air missile sites in separate incidents in the northern no-11y zone, U.S. offi­cials said. It was a second con­secutive day that U.S. warplanns patrolling tho no-fly zones opened tire after being targeted. 
of the casualties were women, children or the elderly because many men had already left for work. 
The missiles hit thrnc civilian areas in or near Basra. as well as a site near Urn airport and 
another nnar tlm Htmwilah oil lhilds. 
t\n cngi­neer at the oil litlld was 
reportndinju rnd in the attacks. 
Iraqi offi­
cials took reporters to the ai­.1 um houri hospital. one of the city's two main h()spitals. Several injurnd chil­drnn and womrm wore at l11C hospi­tal. Iraqi ofli­
r.ials said tlluy had bmm wound-1~d in lhe strikes. 
In al­
.Jumhuriya, four homes were com­
p I c t e I y destroyed 
Khaseeb. four houses w1irc destruyed and another four dam­aged. Iraqi officials were still assessing damage in the other civilian area that was struck. 
llamash said there were no military installations in the areas 

U • S • missiles strike near Basra 
Iraqi officials reported a U.S. missile hit the al-Jumhuriya neighborhood of Basra on Monday morning. Another strike was reported shortly after at the village of Abu al-Khaseeb near Basra, the Basra airport and the North Rumeilah oil field. 
·----­
11: -~-:~,-;
F~_;___ 
I 
Shalbah • 

fi"i'ii@•@A§§~
'---A_P_____________________________, 
and six damaged, including Lufti that were hit. Swadi's house. The blast ripped "There is not even a police sta­the front door off the 28-year-old tion there, let alone a military baker's home, shattered parts of installation," he said. "The the walls and scattered the furni­United States claims to be a ture. humanitarian nation but they 
In the village of Abu al-arc enemies of that concept." 
At the al-Jumhouri hospital in Basra, Marwa Ali, 6, lay on a hospital bed swathed in a pink blanket. Dried blood was caked on her nostrils. She was about to go to school to take an exam when the missile strurk. her sis­
1 
IRAN 

Smiles 
5km 
, 

._,.· "'\,, · 
ter Zcinab, 
25. said. 
"It began with a big bang," said Zeinab Ali, who was slightly injured with cuts and hruises. "I could see my houso cnm­ing down on us. There was dust all over." 
Marwa suf­fered multi­ple wounds to tlrn scalp and a clocp knee injury. 
Deputy P r i m r, Ministor Tariq Aziz condemned the attack and said the United States and its allies would be held respon­sible. His 

remarks were reported by the official Iraqi News Agency. 

VIEWPOINT 
page 8 ------------------------------------------Tuesday, January 26, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
!'JOTRF DA~IE 0Fl'!CE: P.O. Box Q. Norre Dame. IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT M.IRY's OFFICE: 30'> lfaggar, Notre 0:1me, IN 4655G (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EUITOR•IN-CHIH 
Heather Cock> 

MANA<.ING EDlfOR ilUSINfSS MANAGFR Brian Rc:in,thall"r Kylo Carlin 
AsslST"-NT MANAGING EDITOR He,d1er MacKcnzic 

NEWS EnlTOR ................•••.•..Mid,dle Krupa ADVEII.TlSING MANAGrn.......................Bryan Llln VIEWl'OINT EDITOR ................. Eduardo Llull AD DESIGN MANAGER ........................Brctt Huelar SPORTS EDITOR ......................Kathl«n Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER .....................Michael Brouill« SnNE Emmas... .. .........Sarah Dvlag C01'TROLl.ER ................................... D,,ve Rogcro 
Kristi Klitsch WFB ADMINl~TR•TOR ...........·...........Allison Krill, SAINT MARV'S EDITOR ...... M. Shannon Rvan GRAPHICS EDITOR ...............................Pere Ci\ella PHOTO EDITOR ........................ Kevin Dalum 
rhc ()b,rr.'er is the' ii,depcndcnr ne,wsp;1pcr published hy rhe-,;rudenu nf rlie Uriivcr.~i11;,• of Notre Danit! du be and S:1inr M:uy',. College:. Ir does noc ne.ces!>:i.ril:' rdlec( rhc: polici~ of the adminismuion ofeither irn.timrion. Thi'.' m..ws is rcporta.1 as :u::cur:ttdy :md ohjec(ivdy :1$ po~s1ble. \Jnsignd edimrial~ rt"pr!'.'Sent rhe opinwn of rhe maj.oricy of tht" f..ditor-in-Chi~f. M.m;iging F.di1m, Assiitram M;i,naging Editor ;.nd dep:mmcnt editors. Commentaries, lcm:f"'!' and column, prr-lit"ni rhc view~ or rhc aurho", and uor nee;,.'S..\arily rho~c ofThe Ohscrver. Yit.·wpoim space is available mall member.; of 1hr-Nurn: 0amdSainr Mary's communi1y and 10 all rcade!'5. The free ~pn:sskm ofvarving or,inionc; 
LIST~,OOSS, 
=--..
==---~ 

JUSi Bt.CAUS~ 
D)E~N'T

THt FAT Lt\OY 
MtAN IT'

IS SINGING-.. 
through lcm:rli is "nro11rng~. Contacting The Observer 
Ediror:in-Chd \ 631-4542 Business Office Managing fdiror/Assisrnnt ME 631-4541 Advmising News/Photo 631-5323 Systems Spom 631-4543 Fax Scent/Saint M,ry's 631-4540 Viewpoint l'rMai\ Dav Ediror/Viewpomr 631·'>303 Ad E-Mail Offoco Manager/(;<n<eal Information 631-7471 News E-Mail 
631-5~13 
63 I -690018R4iJ\ 631-8839 631-6927 
Viewpoint. l~Pn<l.e<ln obscrvcr@d,rwin.cc.nd. edu observcr.obsnews. l@nd.edu 

¦ NOT PEACE. BUT TBE SWORD 
A Foul Serpent Rears Its Ugly Head, Again 
The New Year brings little change. The "Progressive Stu(pid'?)dent Alliance" is up to its same tricks. A mole hidden deep within the caverns of that foul organization has reported to me 
Sean Vinck 

that they plan to, surprise!, hold anoth­er rally for "gay rights." Never mind that homosexuals are afready protected from discriminatory harassment by du Lac. never mind that the only argument that they cannot muster one coherent reason for the revision of the non-dis­crimination clause, the PSA is going to fight for us! 
Yes, you heard it here: the PSA plans another rally for next Tuesday. This one is going to be more despicable than any­thing they have done in the past. Now, I admit, watching 200 people, most of whom aren't even students, agitate for "gay rights" while the rest of campus looks on in disgust is funny. However, this rally should be eve·n more deserving of our collective apathy/ridicule. 
At their various meaningless events, the PSA typically treats attendees with a plethora of semi-coherent speakers tire­lessly addressing the same hackneyed point with little originality or insight. These speakers usually include some malcontent professors and students. Invariably, their speeches are a yawn, deserving of no more of a two-sentence blurb in the daily newspaper. 
This time, though, the PSA has invited Hep. Barney Frank (D-MA) as one of the speakers. While il is duublful. according to my sources, that Frank will show up, the fact that he was invited is very telling. The PSA claims that they know only that Frank, an openly homosexual member of the House Judiciary Committee, has a "good sense of humor." However, I am not convinced. It is mv belief that thev must now about Frank;s infamous anct'disgusting histo­ry. Of course, the "gay rights" agitators don't want to talk about Barney Frank and the fact that he was reprimanded by the full House of Representatives on an overwhelming vote for living with a man who ran a male prostitution ring 
out of their apartment. They don't want 
you to hear about Frank's vociferous support of abortion, or his stalwart defense of Bill Clinton's sexual immoral­
ity.
The PSA has also invited a vicious pro-abort, the Rev. Jesse Jackson. Jackson, a stalwart liberal mindlessly intones the Democratic Party line wherever he is. He is a reliable supporter of the extreme left. His transition from being a pro-life civil rights leader in the 1%O's to a pro­abortion liberal in the 1990's is one of the great mysteries of American Politics. 
The PSA has invited Phil Donahue to speak as well. Why the PSA thinks that what Donahue has to say on an issue of moral theology is interesting or impor­tant is yet another mystery. 
The PSA has also invited Auxiliary Bishop Gumbleton of Detroit. I would refrain from comment out of respect for the Bishop and his office except to say that it is my prayer that the PSA not make the Bishop's visit an occasion of scandal. 
Coupled with this array of speakers,, the PSA plans to initiate a "fast for jus­tice." They want people to fast in protest against the University's stance on changing the non-discrimination state­ment. The use of an acetic religious practice for this politically motivated nonsense is a perversion. 
Instead of engaging in demagoguery about special rights for homosexuals, the PSA should perhaps fast for the unborn children, the poor souls in pur­gatory, or the Holy Father. 

Of course, the irony of the matter is that the PSA is not really a student organization in the true sense of the word. It is little more than a front group for outside organizations to affect Notre Dame and its students. The outside groups include the outlawed "Outreach/ND," and its companion "GALANO/SMC." From these groups and others like them, The PSA receives money, support, and ideas in a constant effort to harass and distract the campus. It is important to bear in mind that most of the ugly manifestations of leftism on campus have their origins not in the thoughts and actions of students, but in the evil machinations of outside, anti­Catholic organizations. Also, the left receives support from certain tenured faculty desperate to enact an left-wing policy program at the University. 
The nasty little feminist enclave and its representatives claimed that upon being censured for assisting in the mur­der of unborn children, they were warned against associating themselves with liberal faculty members who have nothing to lose. Even though I doubt this was said, it is still a very logical and reasonable statement. Left-wing tenured faculty members do have an agenda, have little to lose, and are will­ing to manipulate students into assisting them with their causes. The PSA and WRC arc just two visible manifestations of this. There will be more. 
The leftists want to manipulate the press into believing that the student body supports them and their cause. We must show the world otherwise. I say that, as Notre Dame students, we should protest against the PSA. Instead of attacking the administration, let's boy­cott annoying, self righteous, extreme student groups like the PSA, the College Democrats, etc. 
Wouldn't it be nice for once to have a rally against rallies'? Or, say,-a rally against whatever the PSA is for this par­ticular week? Hmmm. That gives me an idea. 
Sean Vinck is a sophomore PLS major. llis column appears every other Tuesday, 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces• sarily those ofThe Observer. 
¦ DomJESBUP.Y GARRY TRUDEAU 
¦ 0UOTE OF THE DAY 

'There's no place for the state in the bedrooms of the nation.' 
Afi'J3 FINAU-Y /Jt3/N6 CCW. 

-Pierre Elliott Trudeau 

VIEWPOINT 

___________________________ page 9 
Tuesday, January 26, 1999 -----------------­
¦ THE PROGRESSIVE STUDENT ALLIANCE 
Which Side Are You On? 
Eight clays ago we collm:tively recalled !Im lifn and lngacy of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. I saw people who were visibly moved hy Lhc onn-man play that Monday. Ilowcver wbal people often forget is that Martin meant action! 
.hisus LC1n. 
Su I'm going to ask you to rnkinclle your !irn for justicn by coming together as a 
Aaron· Kreider 

group lo oppose cliscriminulion. I am ask­ing that you conunii to joining I.Im movc­nwnt to inclucln s11xual orinnlation in Urn nondiscrimination dauso. and if need Im. pnrticipatli in a thrcrn day rast. 
It's showdown limn. As a culmination of Len ynars of student and faculty sup-
strong stance in support of peace. 
Fasting cleanses the body (as toxins aru excrementcd) and similarly clarifins your mind. You can turn your thoughts f'rom yourself and focus on larger issues. "I am telling you not to worry abuul your life and what you are to eat, not about your body and how you are to r.lothe it. Surely life means nwre than food, and the body more than clothing." (Matthew 6:25) 
When I fast, I will be dedicating my life to working for social justice. When I fast, I \<i'ill be praying to God for interwmtion on tho side of the oppressed here on campus as well as olsr.wherc in the world. "ls not this the fast that I choose: 10 loose the bonds of injustice, to undo the thongs of the yoke, to let the oppressed go free, and to break every yoke?" (Isaiah 58:6) Whon I fast, I will be organizing with fellow rasters so that our cry is lrnard by l'ellow students, parents, alumni, the American peopltl, and maybe even Um Administration itself. 
In practice most people risk nothing by refraining from eating for three days. Most people have enough fat reserves to 

port for this issue, on Feb. 4-5 the Board 
of Trustnns will meet in London wh,irn 
tlwy will votn on whnther or not to 
includ11 snxual orientation in the nondis­
crimination clause. Fr. Malloy is on the 
rncord as opposing this change. Apparently he and most or thn 
Administration want to reserve the 
'right' to discriminate against gays. les­
bians, and bisexuals. While I hope other­wise, I strongly suspect that on Malloy's direction the trustees will vote against tho change. 
Students and faculty have worked on this isstrn /'or many years, but this time, within tnn days we actually have the chance to achi1iw1 a just end lo this strug­gle! You can join lhe movement and con­tribute tn a historic change of tide at 
Notre Dame. 
Tlw strategy is simple. We want to organizn a thrcrn day fast that will bn held ii' thn trustnes fail to include sexual ori1mtatio11 in the clause. The more peo­pl11 who commit to fasting, the greater thn prnssurn on the truslnes. Ir the lrust1ms vote 'no', Uum wt~ will do our lmst lo gni11 national media attention and put nali<mal prnssure on t!w Administration to sway its courso -and on1i day it will. 
llul why fast? Fasting is a traditional l'orm uf non-violnnt protest that is used to bring attnntion to injusticn. rt also works. For example in I<J78. over a thousand Bolivian women joinnd a month long fast that finally succnr.dod in achieving amnesty for 19,000 political prisoners! Gandhi oflnn faslr;d for the goal ol' Indian indcpnndrmrn. During Vatican II. Dorothy Day ancl 19 other wonwn l'ast1id l'or tnn days to encouragn thn l'.Ollllcil to take a not eal for a month or more. 
But if you are not willing or able to drink only water for three days there are several common options. Often people will drink some juice or broth to give them a little energy. Another method is to fast from sunrise to sunset. You can fast for all three days, or you can just fast for one. We do not want anyone risk­ing his or her health, and welcome your participation in the fast in whatever way you feel you can. 
Over fifty students and alumni have already committed to participating in the fasL The fact that we have committed ourselves to sacrifice, that fifty men and women plan to humble ourselves before God and our brothers and sisters should be of intense embarrassment to the Administration. lf there is no injustice on campus, then why are fifty people about to fast? 
We ask you, our fellow students, facul­ty, staff, and alumni to consider joining us. Let's double our number. Together we can go without food and yet be strong. May justini 11ow down like a mighty river. 
Aaron Kreider is a graduate student in the Department ofSociology and a mem• ber oftile Progressive Student Alliance. lie wishes he had a million dollars to donale to Notre Dame so th'1.t he could be a trustee, but since he is not .'W forlllnate he intends to fast, pray. and act. The PSA column runs every Tuesday. 
The views expressed in -thi.'> column are those oflhe [tu/Jwr and nol necessarily l!wse ofThe Observer. 
¦ OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY 
Morality is Government's Secret Weapon 
(U-WIHE) COLUMBUS, Ohio 
Be aware. One of the most dev­astating weapons of politics has been unleashed upon us. 
This weapon has been in use since the creation of our govern­ment. ft has been used by reli­gious leaders. conservative groups, and countless others. 
Within the past decade, this weapon has gained an alarming resurgence in power and use. And what, you may ask, is this weapon'? Morality. ..-::::::~o'.11!.!II 
Morality has been the banner behind which a minority of the popula­tion has forced its views and beliefs upon us. Some politi­cians who have notorious­ly used the weapon come to mind: Jesse Helms, Pat Buchanan, Newt Gingrich and Henry Hyde. These politicians have used morality as a shield, behind which they can condemn those who are not of their ilk. And they experience little to no repercus­sion. 
They use this weapon to censor books, magazines, and the Internet. They use this weapon to stifle our freedom of speech and peel away at our civil rights. They use this weapon to enforce their small group's sick version of morality on the rest or us. They use this weapon to shape a twisted and hateful America that mirrors their self righteous views. 
Be prepared. The best way to know when this weapon is being used against you is to listen to the rhetoric. A common feeling occurs in all usage of this weapon. Any sentence that contains the phrase "good old days," "do you remem­ber back when," or "I remember a time when" is almost definitely a full assault. · 
Ironically, the good old days that many politicians refer to are of the post World War II era; the '50s, before those "damn hippies" changed everything. A time when racial segregation was not prac­tice but law. A time when women had little political and economic power. 
A time when the Puritan white 
male ruled the corporate world and the home. 
A time of loyalty oaths and bomb shelters. A time of fear. But Pat Buchanan and his cohorts would have us believe that tlrnse arc the moral times. Tlrnse are whcm Americans knew right f'rom wrong. These are the "good old days" to which we must return. 
Another good indication that a morality strike looms in the near future is the battle cry "I have to 
vote my conscience," or "according to Cod," or even "I refer to a passage in

-....,_..rz;;;;~--the Bible." Such state• 
may con­vey that a strike 
of mas­sive pro­por­tions 
is about to begin. Be afraid. This weapon is powerful. It forced many liber­al Americans out of' 

Hollywood in the late '40s and early '50s. It forced labor union officials and socialists such as "Big Bill" Haywood to flee the country for fear of persncution. 
Recently, it brought on a wave of conservatism in the 1996 election and it continues to allow the Hepublican right to keep a firm grip on Congress. And with each passing bill that strips us of our rights, we take one step closer to the racial lynchings of the '50s. With every bill that restricts our freedom of speech, we move closer to McCarthyism and loyalty oaths. 
Ev.ery time a conservative such as Newt Gingrich attempts to cut runding to PBS, while hiding behind morality and condemning the station's horno!iuxual cont11nt, we breed hate. And, with this hate, true civil immorality will fol­low. 
Andrew Hall is a columnist for The Lantern at Ohio State University. He is a junior comput­er engineering major from Fremont, Ohio, who doesn't want to return to the days of "Leave It To Heaver, " lmt does think Eddie /laskell was pretty damn cool. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
'... an unbiased opinion is always absolutely valueless.' -Oscar Wilde 
Observer. Viewpoint. l@nd.edu 

page IO-----------------------osstRvER Tuesday, January 26, 1999 
Riddle 

How many ofthese puzzles can you wrap your brain around 
before you startfeeling faintP 

In the far, far North grows a lonely tree. Legend has it that when this tree is cut down, there will never be another Christmas. Ten years ago, a woodcutter drove a marker into the trunk of the 50-foot tree at a point half his own height. 
Not knowing of the legend, he promised himself he would finally get around to felling this lonely tree when the marker was as high as he. This woodsman was a bit of a legend him­self-he was 25-feet tall 10 years ago (Legends are rife in the Northern reaches where it's winter year round). 
Ten years ago, the woodsman grew at a rate of a foot a year. Today he grows at only 11 inches per year. Every 10 years (on the dot) his rate of growth shrinks by an inch. Someday, he will stop growing altogether. 
The tree, on the other hand, will grow until it is cut down at a rate of one inch per year. If legends live forever (and were true), in how many years will the last Christmas be? 
The w,,b.odc inches in the 
up to78t)Jn 
es. if is 108 
never get an·. 
Clearly the•· .. 
is growing, so ... 
feet ta!lt? And tha 
at l5intthes, s&ihai$·arr 
But that W-fts'\lO 
920 years. Oh not;!" . 
But as it hap en:s, thi a questipn o(s .J ities;7 cnrly the" c·• whichju.sfgets ......•• ... •·· So never fear. Ch:ri . 


One day, upon returning from work, you discover that your tele­vision is on. Not remembering having left it on, you turn it off and think nothing of it. A few days later, the same thing occurs. Over the next couple weeks it happens several more times, then stops. Deciding this case does not warrant calling in Mulder and Scully, or even Robert Stack, you _forgot it. 
Now, several months later, it has begun again. 
The baffling facts of the case are as follows: 
You have never observed it occurring when you are home. All the doors and windows in your house are locked when 
you leave. There is no sign of trespassing when you return. No one is at home while you are gone except your pet gold 
fish, "Emma," who really is more of a radio fish. Your remote control's batteries have been dead for some time. When the TV is found on, it is a seemingly random channel: news, soaps, static, or "Baywatch." The television room is on the top floor, and there are no · houses, buildings, or other structures within the line of 
site of any window. No other appliance in the house displays this behavior. There seems to be nothing odd about your electrical system ­
no surges or spikes. The TV is still under warranty and passed its most recent inspection by a trained technician. 
Is your T.V. possessed by an unearthly couch potato or can you think of a more mundane explanation? 
e~ 9n'Jnfra..ted 
·tt.~~,:,py the $'4ll , 
a;n:µ~to .turnc,tt 
hades, to keep 
gq:!9)\';WW;g·r~ylabyrint~•.corn,
,,,,:·...,,,., ,,.,.•_,··:··.•:."•.,··,;·,._,,'.-, ,,·,,,.,,;' .':-;·,_:,,, .. :.,,-•,:,:.::::..: ",:; 



O 
fHE 

Ti.H:sday, January 26, 1999 -------------------page 11
BSERVER 


e this 

You'vn just purchased your first new home. When you arrive to beginning moving in, you discover that the builder forgot something. Hning a self-reliant sort of person, you decide to finish the job yourself. You stroll down to the local hardware store and find exactly what you need at a price you can afford. The hardware store charges perfectly reasonable prices for the items; seven will cost $LOO, 10 will cost $2.00, and 100 will cost $3.00. As it happens, you need 880, which also costs $3.00. 
Thnse items could likely be found at any hardware store, and at your average home. 
What did the builder forget? 

.... 

In l'ar-off Puzzlania, a prisoner waits on death row. By custom, the night before a man is to be executed, he plays a game -either of chance or skill, it is up to the judge's discretion. This game will decide whether the prisoner will indeed die, or have his sentence com­muted. 
This particular prisoner was presented with a game that was perhaps a little of both. Before him are two large urns. One urn contains 50 black halls, the other 50 white balls. Tomorrow, the executioner will, while blindfolded, draw a ball randomly from one of the two urns. If it's black, it's curtains for the prisoner. If it's white his sentence will be commuted to life. 
The prisoner wants very much to live, and is pleased that with the current state of affairs his chances of living are 50-50. He is then presented with an option -he may change the contents of the urns. He can swap white balls for black, move balls from urn to urn, etc. There is a stipulation that when he is done, there must be fifty white and fifty black balls total between the two urns -he can't eat some of the black balls or paint them or anything. 
It occurs to the prisoner he might be able to help his situation by moving the balls so that there were twenty-five of each color in each urn, then making sure the white balls were on top. But the executioner might have guessed this, and may shake up the urns. Worse yet, hn mighl deliberately roach to the bottom of the urn he chooses. 
Is there another way the prisoner can help himself? 


Answer: The Prisoner's Balls Answer: The Forgetful Builder 
.i,.,; 

The prisoner moves all the balls save for one white ballThe builder forgot-the house numbers! The hardware 
into,one,_µi:11-,Ih~rej~ afif.ty..~fty ,chance that the guard ~ill
st.ore charges $1.00 per digit. · · • 
select this urn and save his hfe, m the other urn there 1s a :~f; 49:99 chance of being saved. This moves his net chance of .f1;i:<i1,,-~,,t?irsurvivat.up,to a hail'\under 75%, · 
t:~.<}:,~---;x.\J'P ' .
,i~.._:;; . 
page 12 The Observer• SPORTS Tuesdat, January 26, 1999 
.... 
· ¦ TENNIS 
¦ COLLEGE BASKETBALL 

AgassJ.ousted ·from Australiani;Open.:. 
As$OCiated Press least ()0:0 more maJortonrna• 
n1lilµt;,;Jl$,•wJi~,th~t\y~tpalJM,
MELBOURNE. Australia:; h1 1,9')5' the:lJ.s. Open in· 
If Andre Agassi isn't quite 1994: Wim,bledon J,n 1992 ready to announce his r.etire? and,)vas ru11n.er~up .£tUh~. ment,>.the prospecttan't be< F~ff~i'0p~~i'fl1.9~~lind •,~rt>li 
· too far away after hls dod.: Htlts been. playing on thfl dering exit from the prot.our sine~ 1986,. and is 
A t l' 0 ··1 h'b'' . · .-i-~r ·.·.·. ... .. · 't1'·
us ra ian pen. .. ······ t C .~··. ;ey<rn~l~t~}•'. . Wl .t(, Once possessed of the · morG<.tha11 $1'5 on ht magic to lift his game to the prize, money and several highest.level at the.tirsthint . \iijl~t... \p.;~nP.P~~R:l:of trnuble, Agassl.Jookf;\d'.', menf;S . . . .... trlilSs~wwrf~r'• Monday as if he'd forgotten Brooke Shfetds, maj''he eve!) how to win and .didn't mu«!\; richer;, , .,, · · . ...•.•.•. ~ ...,. ... ... C. care., .. N , , Mt'J'.:r(t3/YS ... i,t;,tjtµ,tFvate,' 
Perhaps age -Agassi wtlY Aga,f~i; '· ... :,ng cl,cf:e~.· Anff · be 29. when the next major,: . notjust winpj.ng eii.rJy-round the French Ope11, r?l~~ rua · es o 'Utna.., around ..:... or krng'laY:offs or\' m -~ ah l:'tio11sJ 
interosts in other things havci WinnJng .in. Grand Slam 
COHspired ~o/'li'him ~fhi~, .~ "'.·.··u·.".'.,i.•t .... ..l.·.·•.·~.·.··n :.~·.•,·.·.,.·,··.1...·. ·.•,'.•'.,.·.•.·· ..·.·.•.
. ..~..-:..· .. ·.r.·.%.'·•.··•.·., ....·•.•o·.·.:t'.I.
re exetni.n •·e. re. ,.., ... .>/ "' "' ..4.. . MF• , Whatever itis, Ag1;J;.s$.i's 6-1,,. Pete Sampras absent< and t 
7-5, 6~7 {3-7), 6-3 .toss to No. •· fou;:1.eeds a~eatl '(Jfhfm 44 Vim;e Spade4 intb~J9qttll .go~~,,;r.epie:li~,t!id~~~ffe No,;,,•?·< round only confirmed the• Ag11~~l's be;~t anti fH":tha:pT-,downward spiral of a once.:: last'chanceitO wiliamaJor 
sdnt.Ulating care.er..........·'·· <' .·.•···••·····• agn see .p ..
In· ,a .· worrien'.s•\ upse,t..;,;. 'er's .. •·. i ...fi'&C' tt France's unseeded 19-yeai< .· we .• . .. 7 tllrol Ku~~ra, N'h:, old Amelie Mauresmo. 1996 lOY~fgeN' ~!f~ll1.i~qv,. aqq Wimbledon and. ,}trencli.r. No~iWq}Toddrf~ .... . .··•.. •...· junior champion, beatNo.11;; · That Aga~si.'sh ..·· .. find. Dominique Van Roost of himself, a.gii;inst a Journeys 
Belgium, 6·3, 7.•6 (7:~l; •.. ~v''" m · · ~ ~~t!~a< ·•· sq,
Maut-0smo. who bad' never' .une siastically,J . .. tfof gone beyond the ·third.round · court and not knowing what in seven other Grand Slam to dp,su ts mPf$. th.i.l), tournaments, will play itrtM.• even th n· hb(way oi.it ··· semifinals against the winner of the ga.m.e/Spadea played of Tuesday· night's match wen, to he 1,ute, ~utthe old between No. J. •Linds · A· · ~9µJa,.,hav'ffu ca,ry~q,. Davenport and No. 5 Ve. hi .. iec¥,< > ·. ·. Williams. "I was not surpri}ed that 
ln Agassi's last.,six .. ~rand Villc,ra~ ~llth.l~ ~f~e~tin.$ Slam tournaments, Whithar~/•, hitil,}l was.'s,llrpi'i~~j;at tflfl< the only ones he really cares lack of eMtgy Andre had," about at this stage. he has said Martin'jwho ,adva.n(:ed faded in the fourth rou,ni;t with\i..thr,,111!i.et ty{)\l'e~ four times, the first rotlrid ·Zimbabwe's Way .Black once and the second round "You expect guys 'YhQ have once. be~~ hrrre, !i'!! 9.fte. ··· come 
Aii l1ninspired. Agassi saf . up with theigt>o&.: nee;> 
out most of1997. when· he· essary." ···. ·· ·.. dropped .as low asNo.122. . Agissj's O$ualtS1·.y.olubl~ then climbed back to No. fr·.. coac;~;Hrat!,'Sµ,ifb1l),r1coulp 
when he rededicated himself. r barelf watch the match, and to the game last year. frequently buried his head, Jn When asked ifbe coul~> hls,~ands.11e,tQ .. hay!:l
take any irncouragement to .eyali.tat~, whe .... •Hi's from this tournament, Agassi wo'tth his time and Agassi's would have none ofthat. ·. .. to ke,~p pur~uing an.. ~lusiv~ 
..No~ no," he sa.id softly: ''J dream: · ··<t:i ...·.. ··. •··· •....·.•.... · .•••.. 
needed to do better here." . "It,vas Just a qtiestion>of ForAgassi, watching tim~ .. m.e rgally ll<:ltstep~in~ it 1.1p slip a.way,·.there J~ !Jttle tP,•..·anp,fcrrpintJ~Xll .to;play bet•< 
keep him in tennis beyond ... ter/''A:gasst$aid. '1 kind of the prospect of winning at went.by the ~ayside." · 
. 

Hamilton's 27 lift Huskies 
Associated Press  
WASHINGTON  
Richard llamilton got  
bumped, jostled, picked, reject­ 
ed and clobbered. He never got  
rattled.  
With No. 1 Connecticut facing  
·its biggest halftime deficit of the  
season, Hamilton coolly led a  
1G-6 second-half run and  
scored 27 points as thr, Huskies  
oYercame scrappy Georgetown  
78-71 Monday night.  
The last unbeaten team in  
Division I, UConn (18-0, 10-0  
Big East) faced a stiffer than  
expected challenge beforn  
heading .into thr, toughest part  
of its schedule. Next up for the  
Huskies arc No. 9 SL John's,  
No. 17 Syracuse and No. 3  
Stanford.  
Georgetown (9-10, 2-8) has  
lost four of six games since  
coach Craig Esherick took over  
following John Thompson's sud­ 
den resignation Jan. 6.  
However, three of the losses  
have been by two points or  
fewer. and his Hoyas led the  
nation's top ranked tr,am 47-41  
early in the second half.  
All game long, Georgetown  
tried to knock Hamilton off  
stride by rotating bodies on him  
in a physical game. Early in the  
second half, Hamilton had the  
ball stolen from him at mid­ 
court, and his layup was  
blocked by Ruben Boumtje  
Boumtje about a minute later.  
Then the run started.  
Hamilton made a nice dish to  
Edmund Saunders for a layup  
and followed with a couple of  
jump shots and three free throws as Connecticut built a 63-58 lead with 8:01 to play.  Photo Courtesy of Big East Media Kevin Freeman and No. 1 UConn improved to 18-0 with a 78-71 win over Georgetown last night.  
¦ COLLEGE FOOTBALL  

Texas Longhorns hook Simms 
Associated Press 
NEWARK, N.J. 
Chris Simms. son of former New York Giants quarterback Phil Simms, had a change of heart and will play football at Texas instead of national champion Tennessee, his coach said Monday evening. 
The surprise switch came more than a month after a mid-December announcement that Simms would join the Volunteers. 
Texas and Penn State were the other finalists in the 

recruiting battle for the left­handed quarterback consid­ered among the top prep play­ers in the country. 
"He has had some time over the last few weeks to reflect and think about it before he made it final, and he weighed it out in his mind and he just felt Texas was a better fit for him," said Mike Miello, Simms' coach al Ramapo (N.J.} High School. 
The younger Simms was not immediately available for comment. 
Simms' choice will not 
become official until he signs a national letter of intent on Feb. 3, the first day high school players are permitted to sign with a school. 
"I was surprised with the first decision and then he changed his mind, but I am happy for him because he looks at peace with his deci­sion," Miello said. "There's no apprehension with it at all. He really feels good about it." 
Simms also seemed happy making his initial choice of Tennessee on a local cable TV show. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m, to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid.
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
able.Training program.Great '99·'00 LOADED!6 Bedrm. $800 youd think something that important resume booster! 1(800)743-5556 or mo, 273-0482/234-3831 wouldn't hold a grudge or be mean
NOTICES FOR RENT TICKETS
www.universitydirectories.com for no reason,.. 
5 or 6 Bed Rm Furnished House Spring Break Bahamas Party SPRING BREAK 99! HOUSE FOR RENT. 333 N. Hill St. Sec Syst., Wash/Dry BOB DYLAN 1st. 5 ROWS tony-whales in space? Star trek is Cruise!6N1ghts $279!Includes Cancun • Nassau • Jamaica TWO BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. 233-9947 WWF. RINGSIDE 1st. 10 rows one wacky show. Meals & Free Parties1Awesome Travel Free and make lots of 4·5 BR. Available June for 272-7233. Beaches, Nightlife!Departs From Cash'Top reps are offered on-site Summer, August for Fall. BED 'N BREAKFAST I might be a fair-weather fan, but I Florida!Cancun & Jamaica $399! staff jobs.All-Inclusive Dishwasher, Washer/Dryer, Full REGISTRY like the faloons. And aren't all springbreaktravel.com Deals.Special Discounts up to $100 Basement, Large Backyard and Off 219-291-7153 atlanta natives fair-weather fans? 1·800-678-6386 per person.Lowest price Street Parking. MONITORED I PERSONAL 
.... 
Guaranteed.Call now tor details! SECURITY SYSTEM INCLUDED. Thanks for the Italian shower Spring Break Panama City www.classtravel.com CAIi 289-4712. 
I I
FOR SALE ~ade you look
S129IBoardwalk Room w/Kitchen 800/838-6411 DO YOU BELIEVE IN GHOSTS? Next To Clubs!7 Parties-Free WALK TO SCHOOL Beautiful brass bed,queen size.with ·M WELL SO DO WE. IF YOU'RE Drinks!Daytona $149!South Beach Piano Trumpet Sax Guitar & Bass 2-6 BEDROOM orthopedic mattress set and deluxe INTERESTED IN JOINING OUR $129ICocoa Beach $149! Players for Shenanigans Band-for STARTING $185 lrarne. New.never used.still in plas­E. NEW GROUP "THE PARANOR­springbreaktravel,com 3 big shows and optional spring MONTH/PERSON tic.$225 Posters and Drinks Thursday night? MAL SOCIETY," PLEASE CON· 1-800-678-6386 break tour. Call Meo at 4-2573 232·2595 219-862-4043 ·S TACT MATT AT 4·1832 OR 4· 
1835. WE TAKE FIELD TRIPS TO 

Two autistic children need students ADOPT:Help us make our family Mc Girls, HAUNTED HOUSES, STREETS, lo work with them doing behavioral complete.Let us give your newborn NJCE HOMES FOR NEXT For sale: Digitech RP-20 You think you got game? AND DORM ROOMS. therapy. Training provided. Call a loving.happy home and a wonder­SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND guitar floor pre-amp/effects proces• Will see this Saturday.,.,,. Pam @ 273-2761. ful future.Expenses paid.Please call 8,6,4,3,BEDROOM 2773097 sor. Ex. condition, only 1 year old. •HuggyBear somebody give me a rub 
Lucille and Michael 800-468·9311. $350 o b o, Call Brendan at 287• HOUSE FOR RENT 9910. diane-I miss our cuddling' But matt, are you reading this? do you
WANTED 

Looking tor a Female Student 5 bedrooms, 2 baths, dishwasher, roommate naptime was fun today. have a phone yet? give me a ring to assist the Clay High School washer/dryer. sate neighborhood NEW Rates Phone Cards SALES & MARKETING Girl's Track Team. uaIly M·F. close to campus. alarm system, 282 min.$20 call 258-4805 you know, those printers can sure crazy, what should we do with our INTERNSHIPS 3:00p.m.-5:30p,m_ Please central air, large living area, fenced be annoying. day off. 
University Directories offers contact Head Coach Hamilton yard. wood floors. one large oriental Apple Multiple Scan 15" paid.full-time summer sales and at 271-1345, or 235-5858ext rug $1100/mo. Call Bill @875-Monitor: $100.00 especially the HP ones that ignore where's sean o? i bet his car died marketing Internships,open to all 2565 asap, 0776. Call Kelly, 4·3465 you and scowl a lot. again. d1sciplines,College credit avail· 
Page 13 .....

Tuesday, January 26, 1999 The Observer• PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
+ Campus Ministry This Week + 







OFFICE OF 
CAMPUS MINISTRY 

103 Hesburgh Library: 631-7800 112 Badin Hall: 
631-5242 Basilica Offices: 631-8463 
Web Page: 

http://www.nd.edu/-ministry 
Monday-Friday, January 25-29, 103 Hesburgh Library 
NDE #55 (February 26-28) Sign-up 
Continuing this week: 103 Hesburgh Library, 112 Badin Hall, or see your rector 
Freshman Retreat #21 (February 12-13) Sign-Up 
Targeted Dorms: Carroll, Cavanaugh, Dillon, Lewis, McGlinn, Pangborn, Siegfried, Sorin, and Zahm 
Tuesday, January 26, 4:00 pm, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Lector Auditions for the JPW Mass 
I 

Wednesday, January 27, 6:30-7:30 pm, Lafortune Ballroom 
Emmaus Kick-Off 
Thursday, January 28, 5:30 pm 
Africentric Spirituality: Sankofa Scholars Awards Assembly 
Saturday-Sunday, January 30-31, Lindenwood 
Africentric Spirituality Student Retreat Freshman Intro 
Exposition of the Blessed Sacrament 
Monday, 11:30 pm until Tuesday, 10:00 pm, St. Paul's Chapel, Fisher Hall Fridays, 12:00 noon until 4:45 pm, Lady Chapel, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Campus Bible Study 
Tuesdays, Beginning January 26, 7:00-8:30 pm, Badin Hall Chapel 
Celebration Choir Rehearsal 
Wednesdays, 8:30-9:45 pm, 102 Earth Sciences Building 
-

The Celebration Choir provides music for Interfaith Christian Night Prayer on Wednesday nights (with rehearsal prior to the service), sings for liturgies around campus, and is called to bring its song of praise and prayer into the South Bend community. Students, vocalists or instrumentalists interested in joining the Celebration Choir should contact Karen Kirner at 631-9326. 
Interfaith Christian Night Prayer 
Wednesdays, 10:00-10:30 pm, Walsh Hall 
A relaxed and informal night prayer led by students of various Christian faith traditions, with a 
.,._

candlelight atmosphere and focus on the word, prayer and music. Music led by the Celebration Choir. All are welcome! 
Tuesday, January 26, 1999
The Observer• SPORTS

page 14 
-¦ WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Notre Dame going for seventh-straight victory 
By BRIAN KESSLER Assiscanr Sports Ec!icor  Dame women's basketball team will look to continue its winning ways tonight when they take on  
The seventh-ranked  Notre  Syracuse at the Carrier Dome.  


Ruth Riley (left) and Danielle Green (right) wrestle the ball away from a St. John's player in Saturday's 99-60 blowout of the Red Stom. 
The Irish (15-2) have caught fire in recent weeks and are going for their seventh-straight victory. The current winning streak matches the six wins they used to open the season. 
With a 7-2 confernnce mark, the women are in striking dis­tance of conference-leaders Connecticut and Rutgers. 
Syracuse will have its work cut out for them when they go up against thP. high-scoring Irish. Notre Dame has gone o\·er 100 points twice this season and most recPntly put up 99 against St. John's. 
The Orangewomen are just 8-9 
on the season and 4-5 in the 
conference. In its most recent 
game, Syracuse fell to West 
Virginia, 76-70. Leigh Aziz was 
the lone bright spot for Syracuse 
as she scored a team-high 19 
po.ints. 
Notre Dame will also look to 
shut down Paula Moore, who is 
among the Big East leaders in 
points (averaging l 7 .9 points per 
game) and rebounds (7.6 per 
game). 
The Irish defense has hcen 
stingy recently, allowing just 55 
points to Seton Hall and holding 
St. John's to just 60. 
Notre Dame's offense has 
started to click in recent weeks 
as well. The Irish drained a sea­
son -high 11 three-pointers in 
Saturday's victory. Four Irish 
players are averaging double 
digits. Danielle Green puts up 
16.7 points per game and leads the Irish in scoring. Ruth Riley is close behind Green, averaging 
16.3 points and 9.1 rebounds per contest, while three-point spe­cialist Sheila McMillen averages 
15.5 points. 
The Irish have also gotten quality minutes out of freshmen 

··.•• ij~cord',i:';;,: Pts' Pv . Teririessee';(39) 17-1 
1,023 1 979 3
g,o...··,.gu·•.·.·..

.... •··.•.·.e.,.·.· C. :wrl .<>-1
. toqisiana, "'15"'.2 943 4 4. Geprgia 18-1 893 5 .:. ~tjf)peCti(Ui· ...·. .16-3 834 2 6. Colorado St. 20-1 766 8 7. ~9,tre D4m~ 15-2 743 9 :~•8~ UC;l.A' ··JS-4 696 10 9. Duke 16-4 692 11 ·1,Pt .:r~~~.s..JJ~~b . . ..... J7-2 654 6 'l 1. Vfrginia}fech i 18-0 636 13 583 12
:>J2.Qld Dorplnion .13-3 
I)~:"l3.Rotg~r~:;'i J]..3 544 15 
:~ 14·. ·North Carolina··. 19-4 528 7 .<:lern}~9·. 16-3 470 16 .::,dwa St;~Y' 13-3 349 14 17. A1.1burn 15-3 302 20 :j:~i,:lJh:~i~:t~fl.e' ::T': ... 17..2 245 24 ~<19. Ohio St.; ·13-4 228 22 13-5 228 19 r:,i:;~nn: .·•·... .... .,t,:13js . 219 17 
22. Boston College J5-3 134 133 18
.3,1·/\!ilb~.'"m~>•·· >.j.2-6
4:Jeansas <..· . 14-6 89 
25. UC Santa Barb. J 3:..3 65 
Ericka Haney and Sherisha Hills. 
Niele Ivey has controlled the point very well for the Irish this season and is also averaging 
13.2 points per game, 
Notre Dame is averaging bet­ter than 90 points as a team over the current win streak 

"We have a lot of weapons. We can score a lot of points," Notre Dame coach Muffet McGraw said. "That's one thing that this team can do." 
The Irish will look to continue their offensive barrage tonight against Syracuse. 


You can post a Or ~u ca.n postpicture. of yo.u a picture of youand some of and tllese kids your friends. from the library• 
.. 
e-1iiaH f:.muly 1iwruht"rs, di;Ji 1n u ,cct!n' [.()()-pi.on any t~__;pl,.:1 C'U.7tl~1{~)ii;~ :~:u:r1ily t:V~nl ju$[ ai~ul1c_,_1r~ f.l\\l(~Y-·,Jrt)m. sho_\:\'(i1g yt)~.(·__.·> culeryd,ir, .ind r:!1(lt<l .!huu:i.~i,hl.lp for i,>iti.s; . 1..1ren~ J)~I~~' n1,'W ~l~llb'/ Soge\yOt~ flU"\ll~iri)?t ryew~·a1'illat1JJl:>Uixri1r.¢hti,fr1d·fii:i.{f ' 0n MfPfyniilf.cnrfi;,.•ieri;l stay ('()t:1\ic,ctt@,"';./'. ·.••· tinli,;iv ,itlier f~in.ly,friemi(f:WJbsitcs: l\nJ scttil'lg 11r a ~itcH a hrecze,,arivone with.a ,, l}'!P~,IW'r, f'.,'!.:IJ•~ w~.)'> f\P1/1$~,.:;!\l\ 
, 
. 

Tuesday, January 26, 1999 
The Observer• SPORTS page 15 
¦ NBA 
¦ NHL 
Barry joins depleted Bulls 
Roy signs two-year 
A6<ocia1cd Press 
Br.int Barry is no Michael .lorcl1tn, hut lw'II have Lo do for now. 
Barry, a frcrn-agent guard, joirll'd tlw Chicago Bulls Monday, signing a six-ynar, $27 million contract. 
The former NBA slam dunk champion and son or llall of Fanwr Bick Barry, avnragcd 'J.<, points per game in thrnn seasons with tlw Los /\11gnlns Clip1wrs and Miami final. 
"If' lw does play wPII in Chicago, tlwn Limy Lhi n k Lhny'vn got tlw next Michael .Jordan," Miami coach !'at Hilny said. 
Tlw Bulls also rnrllllJHCnd Lim rights to forward Scott Burrell. Mnanwhile, Michanl Olowokandi, tt111 No. 1 pick in 
tlrn NBA draft from Pacific University, was released from his contract with Kindnr Bologna of the Italian League and will join the Los Angeles Clippers. 
The 7-l'oot-1 center had signed with Kinder about 24 hours beforn the NBA and its players agreed recently to end the owners' lockout. Olowokandi's deal with Kinder bound him to the club until Feb. l 5. hut the team rnportnd­ly decidfld to rel11ase him and save money because he had av1~raged only 7.7 points and 5.<, rebounds in six games in Italy. 
c;uard Steve Nash, acquired in a draft-day trade from Phoenix, signed a six-year con­tract nxtension with the Dallas Mavericks that reportedly is 
I. OAK BH< >OK BANK. with over a hi Ilion dollars i11 assf.'ls, is already om• of the larges! and fastest 1!;!'0Wtll!4 (·0111111ercial hanks and investment advi­sors in Chi<"ap,o's wesl sulnu-bs. Oak Brook Bank is owrwd l,y First Oak Brook Bancsharl's. Inc., a dyn,1111i(,. pul,licly-tradc•d company (whose sym­1~,t is"Ft)llBA"on NASDAq). 
2. Ci !ICA1;c>LANDISCINE!JFTIIE BEST URBAN AHEAS in A111('ricu to live in. with great apartments al n·uso11abh• rents. supt•rb restaurants al afford­ulile priees. and world-class sporls and cultural m·tivilil's. We• even have lhe 13ulls and the Buars -just lib• Wall Stret•I. 
:{. Yotfl.I. WORK \'i'IIEHE YOU LIVE. Ourclie11ts are nearby. You won't spend four days a week on t.he road. livinf!; out of a suitcase and eating room servic<• food. Travel for us usually means a hop down the expressway. 
,1.• YotJ'Ll. l'llT IN FUil. DAYS. aml though you'll work hard. yo11 won't lwve to burn the midnight oil every nip.hi or µ,ivc up your whole weekend. So you'll have time lo ("Jljoy life in u great city. 
5. 
You CAN SEE YOL.;H 'X'ORK MAKE ADIFTEl!­ENCE. In a l,usiness our size you're always 11ear the a<·tion. !lo it's easy lo see how your efforts con­tril,utc to results. Ami you don't have lo suffer the frustration of f!;l'lling lo.sl in a multilayered llll­rea11crncy. 

6. 
WI~ OFFER CAHEEHS. not transitional jobs. Our management lrai1we positions are pathways 


worth $18 million Bobby Hurley, a five-year NBA veteran, who suffernd life­

deal with Colorado 
-
threatening injuries in a two­car accident in his rookie sea­son with the Sacramento Kings, was waived by the Vancouver Grizzlies. The Grizzlies had acquired Hurley, a former Duke star, in a four-player deal with Sacramento last Feb. 18. 
The Phoenix Suns re-signed free agents Hex Chapman and Clifford Hobinson. First-round draft pick Pat Garrity remains unsigned. 
The Portland Trail Blazers signed rookie guard Bonzi Wells to a three-ynar contract. Financial terms were not dis­closed. Wells, drafted out of Ball State, was acquired from the Detroit Pistons last week for a conditional first-round pick. 

Assodated P,ess 
DENVER 

Free to test his worth on the open market, Patrick Roy decided tµ stay home, 
Roy, who could have become an unrestricted free agent this summer, signed a two-year contract extension Monday with Colorado to end six month's of negotiations with the Avalanche, 
Roy, 33, is in the final year of a contract that will pay him $5.1 million this sea.son·. He will earn $7 million in the 1999-2000 season and $7. 5 milUon during ln.2000-2001. He alsowill receive $500,000 on July L 
Roy, who ranks fifth in career wins and first among active NHL goaltenders with 394, helped Colorado to the 
Stanley Cup title after being traded from Montreal midway throughthe 1995•96 season, lt
Ten reasons you'll want to worli. for us. 
was his third championship, 
and ke.ep our nucleus," 
Lacroix said. 
Roy's contract includes a no• 
trade clause in the first year, 
which the goalie said was a 
key element in the agreement. 
"! had a chance to play 
whore I want, and Colorado 
was my first pick, but I had to 
know Colorado wanted me for 
that long," Hoy said. 
Lacroix said now that Roy 
has signed, "we're moving 
along with other files.'' a ref­
erence to all-star centt~r Pettir 
Forsberg. 
Hoy's signing raises ques­tions about wht?ther Colorado will be able to retain Forsberg. a restricted free agent after this season. Lacroix said he is optimistic Colorado can sign Forsberg before the end of the season. 
The Avs can match any offer Forsberg receives, but they could face an aggressive bid­ding war lik(J the one that almost cost them center .Joe Sakic last year. 
Colorndo retained Sakic when it matchod the Now York Hangers' three-year. $21 mil­lion offer that included $15 million up front. 
The Avalanche should get a financial boost next sectson when they christen the Pepsi Center, which will replace aging McNichols Arena. 
Considernd one of' the NHL's most intense compotltors, Roy has 44 career shutouts and is a three-time winner of' the Vezina Trophy nward~d to the NHL's top goaltender. He also has twice been named MVP of the Stanley Cup playoffs. 
to permanent assignments in commercial lending. investment management. information tech11olof,ly, or retail banking. We don't believe in hiring people for lwo or three years. then strongly en­couraging them to leave for business school. 
7. 
IF YOU WANT TO STUDY for an advanced husiness degree while you work. we can help with tuition. In truth. we'd need your full attention dur­ing your first year with us. But, after that. you may <1pply to any of the many excellent MDA programs in the area offering executive MBA programs nights and weekends. including the world-famous Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University and the University of Chicago. 

8. 
WE OFFER FlRST-RATE TRAINING. Typically, om management trainees gel two or three rota­


the first two coming with the Canadiens. 
"It was a family decision more than anything else. My wife and kids are extremely happy here," Roy said. "11. was 
.•·· fin.e with me because I like to play here." Avalanche general manager Pierre Lacroix, Rov's former 
•. agent. began negotiating with the goalie in June. Without an extension. Roy would have become an unrestricted free agent after the season. 
•·•·. "lt.'s our commitment to try to keep all the guys that have been with us at least since :I 996, when we won the cup, 
If you think you might be interested in a management trainee position with us. come to our infor­
complete medical and dental care, 30 days of vacation each year,
mation !!11'!!1:;ion in the Fo11lt'r Room, La.Fortune Stud,•ul Center, Sunday, January 31, 5:00-6:00 P.M. 
plus the opportunity to travel and
We'll hold interviews Montluy, FeLruary I-sign up at Notre Dame Career and Placement Ser­
AIM HIGH 

see the world. To discover how high
viceM Oil WPtJm~8Cfoy, January 27• 
a career in the Air Force can take 
you, call 1-800-423-USAF, or visit
Find Ouk Hruok HannJmres, Inc., 1400 Sixtt>enth Street, Oak Brook IL 60523, 
our website at www,airforce.com
(,;m-990-IIANK (fox 6:30-571-0519). www.ol,h.com. Member FDIC. EOE m/f. 
www.airforce.com 
tions in different areas of the bank. with each ro­tation lasting three to six months. so you'll get a wide variety of hands-on assignments. We also provide supplementary training in classrooms and seminars. both on and off site. 
9. WHILE YOU'RE LEARNING more about business intellectually. we help you learn more socially. too. We throw you right in with other 
WantA people-senior officers, new business prospects, and customers. And we help you learn how to fos­
Challenge?
ter and manage valuable relationships through nelworking and team building. 
OFFICER TRAINING SCHOOL 
IO. IT MAY SURPRISE YOU. but we pay competi­tive salaries. Surveys tell us we pay like the 
Start your career off on the right foot by enrolling in the Air Force 
money center hanks. 
Officer Training School. There you will become a commissioned officer in just 12 weeks. From the start you'll enjoy great pay, 
E.A.R..N' VICK C.A.SI-I! 
1999 ­
Earn $$$ for Spring Break $5.95Per J February 19, 20, 21 10ur Sign ups are: 
Sat 1/30 9:30 a. m. -5:00 p. m. Mon 2/1 11:00 a.m. -5:00 p.m. 
Catering Employment Office • 108 Lafortune 631-5449 or 631-8792 
•••• -•••~=••••y•y• •'•••••~•'" _,._,_...._...,_.• •~_..,_,.,,_ ¥,._,._...",...,,,_.~,~ .._,,w•,s=v 
' ;.,•.-· 

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, January 26, 1999 
¦ NFL
..... 
Falcons, Broncos find motivation from losses 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 

In losing, the Denver Broncos and Atlanta Falcons found the inspiration to become winners. 
For the Broncos, the humili­ating defeat to Jacksonville in the 1996 playoffs still serves as motivation. 
"I will never forget that game," league MVP Terrell Davis said. "Never." 
For the .Falcons, a more recent loss, at San Francisco in the third week of this season, spurred the turnaround from perennial losers -eight win­ning seasons in 33 years -to NFC champions. 
"That was when the charac­ter-bu i I ding on this team began, the second half of that San Francisco game," Travis Hall said of a 31-20 loss that was 31-7 at halrtime. "The guys just decided they weren't going to quit." 
So don't expect either side to surrender on Sunday when the 
Track 
continued from page 20 
the feeling is unreal," Engelhardt commented. 
Wrapping up the women's placing. freshman Liz Grow placed second in the 200­meter dash, earning her sec­ond runner-up finish in as many weeks. 
The men's side of the team provided no shortage of plac­ings either.Terry Wray matched a first place finish in Purdue's 400-meter dash with a second place title in the Michigan 600-meter dash with a time of L21.85. Wray is run­ning both 400-meter and 600­meter dashes to prepare for his place in the 500-meter dash at the Big East Tournament. 
"The Michigan meet was important to see where we stand and is a another step towards the Big East," Wray said. "Every meet is a stepping stone towards that." 
Wray's fellow middle-dis­tance runner Tim Kober placed second in the 800­meter with a finishing time of 1 ;53.55. while throwing stand­out Jay Hofner kept with the day''s tradition of excellent throwing, distancing 54' 8-1/2" in the 35-pound weight throw. 
Finally, Bobby Brown exhib­ited no signs of sprinting rust, 

-
.. 
defending champion Broncos and the upstart Falcons meet in the Super Bowl. Their mem­ories are too sharp to let that happen. 
"That loss came up at vari­ous times last year and this," Steve Atwater said of the 30-27 defeat by the Jaguars. the last time Denver lost at Mile lligh Stadium. "Now, we know that is something we had to go through to get where we are now. 
"It still hurts to think about it." 
Just look in the eyes of Broncos players and you'll see the fire building. 
"That was the most painful loss we could've experienced," Ray Crockett said. "We could've been 15-1 or 14-2 that year, we had the home field, we were on our way. We let something very valuable go that could've been our only chance. We didn't know. 
"It was painful. We definitely should've been in the Super 
placing second in the 200­meter with a time of 22.15 sec­onds. 
Overall, head coach Joe Piane was satisfied with the performance of both teams, however his main concern remains Big East performance. Piane recognizes the impor­tance of this weekend's dual meet with Indiana University as a step in the direction of the Big East Tournament. 
"This week we will have typ­ical training keying in on the opportunity to run a home meet against a great team," Piane said. 
Piane has his eye on several Hoosier , including throwing man Kurt Krick, all-American distance runner Tom Chorny and jumper Greg Yedell. Despite these possible weapons against them, Piane believes the men have a great chance to win and expects a solid performance from the women's side as well. 
Either way, a strong student body backing is expected to carry the team the extra mile during the duel this Friday night at Loftus. Field events are slated to begin at 6 p.m., while the starting gun opens Bowl that year. But it might be a big reason we've been in the Super Bowl the last two years."· 
Indeed, the Broncos learned a valuable lesson with that defeat. Despite owning the best record in the AFC and clinch­ing the West by the end of November. they were well into their offseason when the NFL championship was being decid­ed between Green Bay and New England. 
Ever since, they are 19-0 at Mile High Stadium and have won six straight postseason games, including last January's Super Bowl over the Packers. A victory on Sunday will give them the look of a dynasty. 

"It takes a lot of work and dedication and heartache by a lot of people to get there," Bill Romanowski said. "After you've been the best, it might be natural for a letdown. But we have enough veterans and enough guys who remember lthc Jacksonville loss] and who won't let it happen again. We have too many guys who enjoyed the experience and won't let winning not happen again." 
What the Falcons generally have experienced for three decades is losing. Their higgest tormentor has been San Francisco. 
But when they made things close at 3Com Park, then won five of their next six before meeting the 49ers again, they felt validated. And when they beat the Niners 31-19 at home, they felt ready to contend for. wel.l, just about anything. 

Building a better tomorrow 
MPI 
... one step at a time! 

RESEARCH Job Fair 
Various technical representatives will be on hand to conduct on-the-spot interviews at the Radisson Plaza Hotel in Kalamazoo January 30th from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. 
Opportunities exist for both entry-level and experienced staff in the following areas: 
Research Technicians --Toxicology and Pathology Maintenance 
Administrative Support 
MPI works to preserve the safety of the products you buy, the foods you eat, and the medications which improve the quality of your life. We contract with government agencies and private companies to develop life-sustaining drugs, better food preservatives, safer agricul­tural chemicals and many more products whose development you wouldn't even suspect we were involved in --but we were. 
Be part ofthe team building a better tomorrow. EOE 
Comprehensive Benefits and Bonus Program 
COBA DIVERSITY 
Presents 

WOMEN'S LECTURE SERIES 

on 
Challenges in Coordinating Volunteer Activities 
Wednesday 1 /27/99 COBA Room 339 
3:45 to 5:00 pm 

Tuesday, January 26, 1999 
Swi01 
continued from page 20 
style. James Scoltn-Browne was a d<>uhln winnnr on Saturday, 
leading a three-place Irish sweep in the 400 individual medley at 4:10.66, then coasting to a win in the 1650 free-style with 16:39.80. 
Co-captain Steele Whowell led teammates Scotl Zumbach, Antonio Fonseca and Mike Koss 
The Observer• SPORTS 
to an Irish second-through-fifth finish in the 100 breaststroke. Fugate did the same with Ray Fitzpatrick, Whowell and Rob Fetter in the 200 butterfly. 
Both the 800 and 400 free­style A relays also claimed victo­ry. 0th er A re lays scored no lower than second place. 

Saturday's prelim-final format was important, according to Fugate, because it gave the Irish a chance to prepare for Big East Championships and the Shamrock Classic, both of which are swum in prelim-final format. 
Despite the win, Wisconsin­Milwaukee had surprisingly competitive performances, according to Fugate. 
page 17 

"They were ready to go," he said. "They were better than we thought, and that's something wr-'re going to havr-to file away because we swim them again in three weeks." 
Wisconsin-Milwaukee will host Notre Dame's final dual meet Feb. 12. Between now and then, the Irish will travel to New York to swim Buffalo on Friday and St. Bonaventure on Saturday. 
-

Celebrate President's Day 

www.ndfcu.org

'{}J NOTREDAME 
(219) 239-6611 FEDERAL CREDIT UNION (800) 522-6611 l'or People. Not For Profit. 
n~, 

"Mu..' he a tu,! time employee and direcl deposil your net pay. Independent of the University 
tBiiJ 
Ct:Ntf'• ron 
Appalachia Seminar 
SOCIAL
coNCEnNs 

• 
Service-learning through various sites in Appalachia March 6/7-13, 1999 

• 
One credit Theology course 


• 
Involves orientation & follow-up classes 

• 
l'nsl participants in Appalachia Seminar are encouraged lo 


The Appalachia Seminar during Fall and Spring break presents a unique. service­learning opportunity. S1uJe11ls travel lo a variety of sites in Appalachia .wl11ch focus on issu~s concerning rural health care, the environment, wo111en, cluldren, and hou~ing construclion. Through hands on work and person-lo-person contacts, students experience the cultural richness of the area and begin to understand and analyze the social forces that influence the Appalachian people. 
Al'l'l,ICATIONS 
Available at the Center for Social Concerns 
Due date: Thursday, January 28, 1999 -10:00 am 
$40 deposit with application (non-refundable if 
accepteJ) 

FURTHER INFORMATION 
Tom Kilrny, Student Task Force Co-Chairperson, 271-190 I 
Sarah Kolasa, Student Task Force Co-Chairperson, 634-2892 Rachel Tomas Morgan, Seminar Coordinator, 1-5293 

.. 
Pholo counesy of Sports lnlorrnalion 
Steele Whowell finished second in the 100 breaststroke this weekend. 
THURSDAY. JANUARY 28 7 P.M. STEPAN CENTER 
CENTRAL A.MERI CAN RELi EF EFFORT, 
f EATURING: · UMr1 mEv's McGEE Au BAHA's TA111N1 FLORI DA EVANS SI IOWI\AND & REVUE LETTER 8 ARIZING 
All proceeds t9 benefit the victims of HURRICANE MITCH 
Cost is only $511 What a bargain! 

tf}.E DAY SPD •.
SPECIAL 
'11-IN 
~..f~ 
0The Castle & Co. 
Tan All You Can 
$.35

for one month 
Wit/, tf,is tanning paC'kage er~joy these sa.vings 
r---------r---------r---------,
1 1/2 HOUR I Full Set of Tips I Waxing 1 I I or I I 
1 . ~REE . :"Sculptured Nails: arch ............. $10.00 l 
I Mm1 Facials , Reg. $55 $30 1 bikini ............ $20.00 1 I I now • legs ............. $30.00 1 : 1 1 Facial hair ... $20.00 1 
1 $25 value : Fill,ins $1 8 : . I
L__BY Sornia--~-·Bi. Rachael-~-By Sorn1a _J 
·wolf T anmng Beds 'Facial Tanners 
Minutes from Campus
•Luxurious. Clean, Private Roome ·srareo and Body Cooling wilh Every Lounge State Road 23/lronwood 
closed Sundays and Mondays* II mil 1 coupon per vlsll * expires March '99 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, January 26, 1999 
,-­
1 
I ­
¦ WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Women split over weekend 
By WES JACOBS time in handing DePaul a 9-0 us to begin the year with. It Sports Writer loss. The Irish did not drop a gave us a good chance to get set in the victory. some of our kinks out," said 
At the Federated Insurance "DePaul played well, b~~ th~y Hall. Court Classic, the Notre Dame are a very young team, said In anothm hright spot for the women's tennis team opened Notre Dame coach Jay Irish, freshman Becky Varnum the season with a disappointing Louderback. "They might strug­recorded her first career win split in its first two matches, gle a bit this year, but they will over Charlotta Aronsson, 6-0, winning in overpowering fash­improve in the years to come." 6-1. Like the rest of the Irish ion against the Blue Demons of Michelle Dasso and Jennifer team. nerves were not a factor DePaul on Friday, and losing a Ilall, the number one and two in her first match. tightly contested match to the singles seeds, led the way for "I think the pressure was def­Waves of Pepperdine the fol­the Irish. Dasso cruised to a initely there for me, but I think lowing day. straight set 6-0, 6-3 win over that I came in prepared," 
On Friday, the Irish qukkly DePaul's Barbara Fuzesi, while Varnum said. "I just acted like shook off what little nerves and Hall followed suit, winning 6-1 it was my job to win, and I went rust the players had coming and 6-4 over Laura Taylor. out and tried to do it." into the first match, wasting no "This was a good match for Riding the confidence of their 
big win, Saturday's match

lost once against the best com­
began in the same fashion as

petition in the country. 
Friday's. The Irish quickly

Fencing 
Luke LaValle, the 1998 NCAA 
staked a 4-0 lead over the

champion, was also impressive 
Waves and looked to close out

continued from page 20 
as he posted 14 victories and 
the match with one more win

only four losses. LaValle's wins
fencing schools. St. John's, out of their remaining two sin­
gave him 164 career victories
Columbia and NYU were all gles matches and three doubles
and moved him into fourth
looking to top the Irish. matches.
place on the all-time Irish
Showing no signs of fatigue. Unfotunately, that win never 
career win list and third in
the men's team swept the meet, came. 
career sabre wins.
defeating St. John's (16-11), Marisa Velasco and Lindsey
Szelle and Crompton were not
Columbia (16-11) and NYU (15-Green both looked to finish thr
the only freshman who per­
12). The three victories boosted job for the Irish. Each ventured
formed well. Epeeist Brian
the men's record to 6-1 on the into the third sets of their
Casas finished third among Irish knotted at four all, it was left to "It's disappointing, of course. 
vear. respective matches, only to 
men in wins with 14 . the duo of llall and Michelle but we're happy that it hap­
· The women's team also domi­finally succumb to their strong
On the women's side, all­Dasso to dncide the outcome. pened now. At least we now
nated St. John's and NYU, 21-opponents. No. 3 Velasco, after
American foilist Sara Walsh Just like the first two teams, know where our strengths and
11 and 19-13, respectively. losing her first set 6-4 to Nicola
opened the season undefeated they also foll behind to their weaknesses are. We're just
But women's team faltered Kaiwai, clawed back to tie the
in her 13 matches. Walsh is no opponents, Ipek Senoglu and hoping to get them back
slightly against Columbia, match at a set apiece with a 6-4 
stranger to such accomplish­Angela Lawrence, facing indoors," said freshman
falling 20-12 and dropping the win of her own. In the final 
ments -she closed out the deficits of 6-3 and 7-5, only to Varnum. 
team record to 5-2. The Irish game, however, she lost 6-1,
1997 season with 48 victories come back and tie the match at Coach Louderback had the 
women have not had two losses keeping the match alive for
and no losses. 8 apiece. At that point, a tie­same sentiments: "It was a
in a single season since 1994, Pepperdine.
Epee captain Nicole Mustilli breaker was all that was left to tough loss, but right now, we're
the last year the Irish won the Despite the two singles losses, 
also had a good weekend. Her decide the match. just trying to improve. Only at
national title. Notre Dame still clung to a 4-2
21 victories moved her into In the end, Hall and Dasso the end will we worry about
In addition to the team's suc­lead. But the problems did not
third place for overall career were edged, 8-6, and the match where we are in the rankings."
cess, Irish head coach Yves end there.
wins and second place for was over. All that was left was The Irish will have the oppor­
Auriol won his 300th career "Everyone really got slow 
career epee wins. to get on the bus and come tunity to make further improve­
women's team victory and starts in doubles, and that real­
The next challenge for the back to South Bend to begin ments as they travel to
raised his career record to a ly hurt us," said senior Hall. 
Irish are home matches next preparing for the next match. Oklahoma City this Saturday to
stunning 303-16. After losing the first two dou­
weekend against Case Western Despite the tough loss, the face Kansas State and
The Irish sabre squad proved bles matches, and the score
Reserve, Chicago, Cleveland Irish remained optimistic. Oklahoma.
that it was the best in the coun­State, Detroit-Mercy, Lawrence, try by posting a 51-12 mark. 
Michigan, Michigan State,
The Fabulous Freshmen, Andre 
Northwestern, Ohio State,
Crompton and Gabor Szelle, led Purdue, Tri-State and Waynethe men's team in victories with State.
16 and 19, respectively. Szelle, in his first collegiate match, only 
Attention: 
Want to get involved with .Student Government? Looking to make changes? vvhy not run for office? 
M:lrrl9.to:ry infonra.tional rreeting will be held for all can:lidate.s intereste:1 in running for Student 
Government President/ Vice President 
<01e namer fJXm each ticket nu.st 1:e present)
Seeking Civil Engineer for Highway 
Design Department. Experience in 
'l'uesda.y, Jan. 26, 7:30 PM\ 
INDOT Highway Design procedures desired. Minimum two years 
Student Govermlw:mt Office 
(seo:xrl Floor I.aFortune) -· 
experience; P.E. preferred. Salary 
~ cpesticns? Please a:nt.act Nicole Borda (Jwicial Courci.l VP) at 631-4556 
commensurate with experience. 
•Good benefits. 

brought 


page 19 YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST '[iiesday, January 26, 1999 LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF ND 

... 
... 

FOXTROT 
WHA1' AliE 
YOU Oo1NG? TR"!'ING To 6RoW Sll>E8VRNS. 
DILBERT 
8'f Rv881NG I HEARD "!'ovR TI-IAT 8Y CliE£1(S ?.' STIMULATING J lHE S1<IN AN!) 
GETTll"'G CIRCULATION Go1NC,, 1T HELPS lHE HAIR folLICLES Do THE!~ TH1N6. 


WAITJ CHEE.TAH, 
The Observer• TODAY DAN SULLIVAN 
BILL AMEND 
I, VM, HAVE AN
SoN, WHEN MoTHER NATURE 
ITCH oN MY HEAD,
IS REAt>Y FoR You To GRoW 
1 5r'EAR. UH· R088ING '(oUR CHEEKS 
S10E8URNS, 1T'l.l HAPP€N. 
Hut-I. To GRow HAIR ,s ASOUT THE S1LL1EST THIN6 I'vE 
·~, 
ll' ::: 
SCOTT ADAMS 
A.RE. A YOU 

CHA.NC£ TO A5~ 
WAtTI.NG 
I'M /Y\OR.E. 

HER !='OR THE l<..EY LIK.£ A 
Of' A 

TO Tl-IE SUPPLY Cl-IE.ET ri._14? 
PANDA . 

...--,__..., CABINET.
E 
0 


TUESDAY, JANUARY 26, 1999 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TI-11S 

DAY: Wayn~ Gretzky, Anita Baker, 
Paul Newman, Bob Uecker, Eddie 
Van Halen, Scott Glenn, Angela 
Davis, Jules Feiffcr, Gene Sisf<el 
Happy Birthday: You'll get agitat­

ed. this year, but if you can. l<eep your 
wits about you, prospertty will be 
yours. Move with the limes and 
acromptish as much as possible. 
There won't be a lot of time to think 
so be ready to take action quickly. You 
l<now what must be acromplished in 
ord<'r to reach your goals, so get mov• 
ing and you won't be sorry. Your 
numbers: 2, 13, 19, 25, 38, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Em~ 

lional problems with immediate lami• 
ly members may result in nervous 
tension and irritabilily, Make an effort 
to put your troubles on hold; now is 
nor the time to make changes. 000 
TAURUS !April 20-May 20): Trav­
el and conversation should be at the forefront of your mind. New relation­ships will develop if you get out Don'I sit back watching everyone else have fun. Participation will be the 
key.000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 201: Watch out for deception or misrepresenta­tion when dealing with organizalinns that you are considering joining, Situ­ations may not be as they appear where friendships or relationships are concerned. Use your intuition and read between the lines. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Secret love affairs will be very intense. You will damage your reputation at work if you are not extremely quiet about your personal activities. Creative pur, chases will be profitable. 0000 
LEO Quly 23-Aug. 22): Your abili­ty to work with detail will enhance your reputation and help you achieve your goals. Your personal partnerships may be rocky today. lurn a blind eye rather than start arguments. 00 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22}: Avoid 
gethng drawn intu gussir. Your boss 
will nol think highly o you ii you 
participate. The result will be mos! 
unnerving if someone twists your 
words and makes you look bad. 
00000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0cl. 22): Be care• ful while traveling in foreign coun• tri.-s. Problems with your documenta• lion may cause delays You may be asked to step out on a limb for some­one you care aboul. Don't st<'p too far. 
000 
SCORPIO (Ocl. 23-Nov. 21): ]oinl financial ventures will resull in money h'oubles. Stabilize your posi­tion. l>ut your cash into long-lt>rm investments. Problems will surface if you lry to back out of a rommitmenl. 
OOQ 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
Take a look at any legal mattt.'rs. 
Someone around you is not on your 
side. You won't want to listen to any­
one. Your emotional partner will be 
empathetic and loyal 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19), You can make financial gains by using your ingenuity and your unusual business tactics. You have some good ideas. Move quickly in order to take advantage of the opportunities. 00000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 181: 
Accomplishments can be achieved through disripline. Your personal goals will be easy to reach. Make those changes that will add some piz­zazz to your image. 00 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't get too emotional. You will be able to work things out if you are logical in your approach. Consider all your options and don't hesitate to take advice offered by friends and relatives. 0000 
(\!lt::::==i::::~=~~ l:==!::!=:;=:::w:ir::::=:::$it::::~==:::::::11: 
'61=:tw:t::::::::::::::uiil:=:::::;:::::i::==:!::::===::;I 
~ 

._______________,;: L...i......___..;..;_...L........--......J 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Shattered pane 56 Square dance piece partner
1 Garden crasher 34 Individuals 57 Colloquialism for 5 Gather up 17-Across35 "Blame It on
10Mary­
-"(Caine 60 Adam's madam cosmetics 

comedy) &f Public persona 13 Less inept 
36Gamew1th 62 Ten -(long 15 Fulurtsltc slave 
mallets odds) 16 "--Gotta Be 37 Religious law 63 When it's light Me" 39 "-never fly!" 64 Behind bars 
17 Addition to the 65Ukemanya40 "Sure thing, family 
mistake 19 Replayed tennis 
skipper!" 
41 German car

shot 42 Disconcerted DOWN
20 Recent hires 43 Colloquialism for
21 New Zealand 1 Desires
17-Acrosstribesman 2Thumbsup/

47 Fcol (around) 

23 Hog heaven? thumbs down 4ll Jerusalem is its
240ues. critic counterpart 3BroncosQB
cap. 49 Quiz

25 Rolling Stone John Richards 52 Crockett's last 4 Figure skater 27 Colloquiahsm for stand Thomas 17-Across lMPoshness 5 Marshal Dillon's portrayer 6 Unruly crowds ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 7 Lawyer's org. 

Puzzle by Patrick Jordan
a Blubber 9Thwarts 2a Kind of boom 44 --Perignon 53 Volcanic flow 29 Aswan Dam 45 Worked the soil 54 Cutting part B A L frequency 
locale 46 "Gotcha" 
55Getan-­1-'S=+M+~-+=+=•-~Hr=-i••~..,.""'I 11 Declare firmly 30 Narrated 49 Pear variety effort 31 Bicke~ng so Teatime treat 58 Actress

legend 
32 Boxer Oscar De 51 Tensed with Thurman T A 14 George's La-"up" 59 Broken-down
p predecessor 
33 "Roots" writer 52 Not young 47-Across AT O '"'-4..::.+~"" TR E 18Russoof"Get 
37 Cows' mouthfuls 
T -Shorty" 22 Versatile 38 Together, in -------------­

music Answers to any three clues in this puzzle transport, for are available by touch-tone phone: 
short 39 Author Fleming 1·900-420·5656 (95¢ per minute). 25 Bingo relative 
41 Like some Annual subscriptions·are available for the 2&Utopia exercises best of Sunday crosswords from the last 21 Sis'ssib 42 Drew a blank 50years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
.... ,__ ' 
•· OF INTEREST , 
Passionist Volunteers will give an information ses~ sion about their Chiago program today at 4:30 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. This is a multi-service, faith-based group. 
Children and Poverty Coordinators are needed to organize and facilitate a one-week fall or spring break (:SC seminai\ Interested students or grad students 
, should pick up applications at the CSC. Call Erika (4­1498) or Marjorie (4-1523) for more information. Applications are due Friday, Jan. 29. 
"Controlling Weapons of Mass Destruction" lecture will be given today at 4:15 p.m. in Seminar Room C­103 by Alan Dowty, Professor of Government and lnternationa.l Studies. University or Notre Dame, 
·Hamburg; Germany. Call 1-6940 for more information. 
Wanted: Reporters and photographers. Join The Observer staff. 


-
.. 



¦ Women's tennis goes ¦ Notre Dame will 1-1 in last weekend's look to keep pace in Federated Insurance the conference with a Court Classic. win over Syracuse.
PORTS 
p.18 p.14 
O 
THE 

page 20 BSERVER Tuesday, January 26, 1999 
¦ TRACK AND FIELD 
West points Irish tracksters in right direction 
By BRIAN HOBBINS . improvement this weekend at 
Sports Writer 
The Michigan Wolverines played host to several track teams this weekend. but it was the Fighting Irish that grabbed the headlines. 
In their second meet of the season. the Irish tracksters continued to make headway, grabbing two first-place finish­es and claiming several run­
... ner-up titles . The unscored event provided the perfect environment for individuals to prove them­selves. The highlights of the meet were provided by estab­lished leaders and unproven rookies. Marshaun West led the pack, provisionally qualifying for the NCAAs with a school-record breaking triple jump of 25' 6-. 3/4" en route to a first-place finish. Despite breaking the record that had stood since 1985, West seeks even more 
home. 

"I didn't jump to the best of my ability," West said. "I'm looking for the crowd to hype it up this weekend. I feel more comfortable at home." 
Hopefully, West will be very comfortable, as he will be called on in the 200-meter and 4x400-meter events as well. 
Up-and-coming star Dore Debartolo evened things out on the women's side grabbing first-place honors in the 25­pound weight throw. Despite a measurement coming in at 51 ' ­3/4". Debartolo knows she must improve as the season progresses. 
"This weekend has a lot tougher competition; Indiana has a lot of good throwers," Debartolo said. 
Bearing in mind that this is only Deb-artolo's second meet throwing the weight. which is an indoor version of the ham­mer throw, there is little rea­son to doubt the prospect for continued improvement and placement. 
Rounding out the women's highlights, three other athletes gained second-place finishes. Freshman Natalie Hallett improved on a "no height" per­formance last weekend at Purdue, gaining second place in the pole vault at a height of 
9'6". 
Hallett admits that them are adjustments to make on the college scene. 
"I need to get used to every­thing at the college level, at least it is a start," she said. 
Hallett looks to be more in the range of her personal record of 10'6" this wc<ikend in front of a home crowd. 
Jennifer Engelhardt stayed on the right track, placing sec­ond with her high jump of 5'8". Engelhardt wants to improve on that mark even more this weekend, while keeping in mind NCAA requirements of a 


Photo courtesy of Sports Information 

Jennifer Engelhardt finished second in the high jump, clearing a height 
of 5'8" at Michigan. 
high jump of 5'9-3/4" will earn meets are not uncommon. her a provisional place in the When the crowd gets involved tournament. 
"Personal records at home see TRACK/ page JG 

¦ FENCING 
Irish foiled by defending champs 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Sports Writer 
It was a weekend of ups and downs for the Notre Dame fenc­ing program as both teams faced· off against seven tough teams -including defending NCAA champion Penn State. 
Saturday, the Irish traveled to State College, Penn., to take on the Nittany Lions. Haverford and traditional fencing power­houses Penn and Stanford. On the day, the men's team posted a 6-1 record, while the women finished 5-2. 
The men's squad dominated Haverford, winning 24-3; the women also crushed the Fords by a 31-1 margin. 
Considering that Penn fin­ished sixth at the NCAAs last year, the Irish expected a much closer match-up. But the Notre Dame men and women eased past the Quakers 19-8 and 21­11, respectively. 
The Cardinal of Stanford, coming off a third-place finish last season. gave both squads one of the toughest fights of the weekend. The Irish squeaked through, with the men winning 14-13 and the women downing the Cardinal on indicators. 
But when it came time to face perennial rival Penn State. con­sistently a thorn in the collec­tive side of the Irish, the fencers 
The Observer/Jeff Hsu 

dueled well but could not pre­The Notre Dame fencing team had a successful weekend despite falling to Penn State, 14-13. 
vail. All-Americans Nicole Mustilli to an early 8-1 lead on PSU Baby, who finished 14th at the Stanford, Penn State and Notre and Sara Walsh posted unde­before the Lions roared back to NCAAs, defeated Casas five Dame shows _just how close the feated results, but it wasn't tie the match at 13 points touches to one and the Irish fell, top teams am, and just how enough to ward off the Nittany apiece. 14-13. tight the NCAAs will be. Lions, who won 23-9. Mustilli Freshman epeeist Brian Penn State went on to defeat On Sunday, the Irish contin­and Walsh combined for seven Casas, who finished the day Haverford and Penn before ued their road trip to New York of the nine points, going 3-0 with a 8-4 record, faced Penn falling to the Cardinal, 14-13. City to duel witl1 three more topand 4-0, respectively. State sophomore Brendan Baby The extremely close nature of The men's squad jumped out in the final duel of the match. the three matches between see FENCING/ page 18 
< 
¦ SWIMMING 
Men race to meet victory over weekend 
By WES RICHARDSON Sports Writer 
The men's swim team coasted to a victory rlVer five other teams Saturday at the Bill Hitter Invitational, easily overtaking second-place host Wisconsin­Milwaukee, 1083-921.5. 
A seven-point lead after Friday's events multiplied into a 33.5-point margin during Saturday's preliminary session. The Irish then assured them­selves of victory by adding 358 points that night. 
· Wisconsin-Green Bay (672), Illinois-Chicago (513), Butler 
(286.5) and Marquette (95) rounded out the field. 
The Irish won only five of 40 events, but were able to place several swimmers in the top 10 in most events. Expecting victo­ry, many team members com­peted in 1wents they do not nor­mally swim. 
"It was a good lactate work­out that gave us a break from normal practices, because we were actually out there racing someone," co-captain Chris Fugate said. 
He noted that the relaxed atmosphere did not deter the team from its goal. 
"We had a good time and enjoyed being together as a team. but when it was time to race, we got up and raced," Fugate said. 
Most of Notre Dame's victo­ries came in the longer evepts. Sean Casey scored the first win for the Irish Friday night with a 
4:46.24 in the 500-yard free-
see SWIM/page 17 

Men's Tennis 
at Syracuse 

at Wisconsin 
Tonight, 7 p.m. 
SPORTS 

Today, 2 p.m. vs. Michigan -~ Saturday, 7 p.m. 
ATA 

vs. Providence Women's Tennis Saturday, noon vs. Kansas State Saturday, 2 p.m. 
GLANCE 





