-.-----------------------------·------­
Drew goes back to school NATO escalates airstrikes 
Monday

¦ As refugees continue to flee Kosovo, NATO vows
¦ See what rhe critics had to say about Drew 
to conrinue its bombing campaign against Serbia.
Barrymore:\ latesr movie, "Never Been 
Kissed." 
APRIL 19, 

Scene• 12 
1999

World & Nation • 5 

THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Sai,it Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 125 


Arias: Military rules budget 

Arias said. 
"The American public needs to be educated about peace because, as I pointed out, you've been involved in wars all your history, but you tell me you are a peace-loving country, a peace-loving people," he 
see ARIAS / page 4 

WWW. N D.EDU/-OBSERVER 
NCAA to investigate Dunbar's gifts to Irish 

By F.RICA TIIESINC 
A,!\u, 1.ur Nc.·ws Edirnr 
Till' ,IIIHlllll l or llllHWY d1!di­l'H ll'd LO militaris111 and thP 
arms lrad.-is immoral. and tlH• l1.S. is 0111• ol' Llw worst olT,~nd­,,rs. llsrar ;\rias. l'ornwr pn•si­d1•11 I. ol' Costa llirn and 1987 Noh<·! 1'1•c11·f' l'riz" laur1>ah• suid Frid1111. 
.\rias 1·xplailwd in a l<'c!UI'<' tlial tl11• U.S. will solln Im spP11di11g $'.\Oil liillion nn its <h·f1·11s<· lHulg1·t. 
"Tli<• UnitPd Sl.alns ... st.ands aS a 11 I' X l r I' rn (' I' X a Ill pIP ll (' 1110ml irn·sponsibility," Arias said. "By maintaining a mas­siw military industrial liudgPt, this 1·01111lry s!'1Hls tlw wrong mc•ssag<• lo otlwr countrifis." 
Ill' Pxplai11Pd that llrn U.S. sPlls thPS<' wPapons inclisrrimi­natt>II/, nol just lo dl'lllO!TariPs or countriPs f'ighting l'or dPmor racy as sonw politil'ians 111av daim. 

"it's a mallPr of making military leaders can rnceive
lllOll<!Y with the\ salei or 

inrrnased funding whenever a
w1!apons and that·s not prop<'r. 

conflict arises, am ironic.
That's immoral." lw said. 

"You could do so much with
Arias pointnd out lhal one or 

even
c!VPt'V fiv<' Anwrican childrnn a small portion or that 
money if it's redirected," said
grows up in povPrly. and over 

Arias.
140 million Americans lack Part or the problem is the

lwalth i11s11rancn. 1IP said thosP 

American culture and itsfacts. rnmparNI lo military acceptance of this behavior,
spPrHiing and tlw notion thal 

By ERICA THESING 
Associate New, Edimr 
The NCAA Comrnittnn on Infractions will ask Notrn Damn to appear at a !waring in eon­ner.tion will! tlw casn of' Notrn Danm football players rno1iving gifts from Kimbnrly Dunbar, who pleaded guilty Lo using mnlrnzzlr.d funds lo purrhasn tho gills. 
Tim University rec1iived prn­liminary notice of thn hearing and expects to rncc\ivn oflicial notice WHdnnsday. No datn for the hoaring has bonn set. and the University is uncertain about the outcome, according Lo Dennis Moore, director of Notre Dame Public Relations, 
"Nothing's been determined on that yet," Moorn said. "Nothing has been decided." 
The NCAA enforcement stuff has recommended that the mat· ter be considernd a secondary rules violation, as upposnd to a major violation. Moore strnssed that this is merely a recommen­dation and the committee may still go either way. 
"We haven't seen those docu­ments, so we don't know what their reasoning was, but obvi­ously based on their reviewing 
tlw case\ tlwy clPrirlnd it was a S(!(:01u.lary mat.t,!r," Moore• said. 
If the commitlcP dons opt !'or llrn S<'condary rull's violalion, sanctions r.oulcl rangP from pro­ha tion without pPnaltins to a minor loss ol' scholarships. The llligibility or ('LIITl'llt pla_vl'l'S is not an issun . 
;\ major violation c:011111 rnrry harshnr pnnaltiPs, such as los• ing scholarships or t.Pi<'vision contracts. It could also inrlucli­rnstrict.ions on rnrruit.ing and post snason bans. 
Dunbar is now snrving a fi>ur­ynar prison tnrm for nmb11zzli11g more than $1.4 million l'rom lrnr l'ornwr nmploynr. Dominiack Me1cha11ical Inc. Slw used thn rnorwy to covnr lravd expenses, jewelry and otlrnr girts for up to a doznn Irish players. 
The NCAA invcistigation only involves Dunbar's actions aft<'r June 1995, wlwn shn joinml the Quartm-bitr.k Club. According to thn NCAA, nrnmbership in the Quartnrbar.k Cluh mad11 Dunbar a reprc,sentative ol' the University. Thn Quarterback Club is now disl.Jandnd. 
The University self'-roportml 
see NCAA/ page 4 


From football games to the Keenan Revue, the First Aid Services Team is on hand to provide 



AFAST response 
By LAURA PETELLE Bookstorn Basketball coordinator Assisr,111t M,111.i~in~ Editor for FAST. "We get one lrnart attack p1!r game and one dnath per year 
"Control. W<' lrnvf' a bla1'.k lag, al football ganrns." two major injuriPs, two minor." "We have more resources lwre at 
An 1•pisodP of Fil'! No. just a mul­thn stadium than many towns tipl<' casualty irwi<ic•nt -a minor have\" said Brother l.ou II urcik. clisastl'r -stagi•d Sunday !'or lrnin­lie explained that at each game i11g jHll'pos,•s by f\ot.n• ll11nw's First tlwre am six doctors, six nurses Aid SNviri•s TPam t1:AST). and thren parammlic tnams avail­
F.•\ST providPs lirst-rPsponse lirst able, but FAST is thn first to aid rare• J'or a variPty of Univnrsity respond when somoonn is hurt. PV<'nls, from football game's to according to llurcik. Voluntners s<~e ll1•rSports c>VPllts lo tlw KPnll,lll Pverything from cut fingnrs to hnad 1lP\'t11'. F,\ST's ;i;i studPnt momlwrs lacnrations. from !mat stroke to an• BPd Cross-n•rtifiPd in First Aid hypotlrnrmia, from sprained anklns a11d Cl'H l'or tfw l'rnl'Pssional to unconscious drunkards. f!l'Sl'lll'L Most nf' tlwm an: not prc­Sunday's mock disast11r fnaturnd nwcl. a variely of accidnnts often found 
At Sunday's nrnck disastl'r, FAST at football games, including a be<i lllPllllwrs 1;ral'lin,cJ rPspondi11g to sling with ullnrgic rnaclion, an lliP lYP""' of incic!Pnts that. could "unwalkabln bone injury" on the 111'.<'lll' in '.\JotrP IJamP Stadium. stairs, an unconseious drunk in tho \\'hc•n lull to rapacity, Llw nrnnn bathroom who bncamn bnllignrnnt holds owr 80.000 1wopl11, tlH' pop­upon waking and a varh~ty of 1wo­ulation of' a small rily. plc passing out from a variety of' 
"/\ lot ol' potPntially really bad cam.es, lhings hnppPII at thn f'oothall Tim training session culminated ga111ns," said Nikki Johnson, wilh a scc>mtrio wlrnro rivn pnople FAST's 191}8-IJ<J fool hall coordina­wnrn injurPd while rushing the Lor. !fold. The l'irst FAST tnam on the 
"lhf' 1111111hnr orw ia_jury al foot­scene radioed for back-up and ball ganws is 1woplP passing out -began triage -an assnssmrrnl of <lillwr IH'CHllSI' l!wy'v,~ had Loo the extent of the injuries -and mul'h to drink or it's hot or it's first aid. mid." said Kat(\ Howland, I 91J8-99 

see FAST/ page 4 


page 2 The Observer• INSIDE Monday, April 19, 1999 
¦ INSIDE COLUMN 
The Amazing Spider-Man 
In AmPrican srwiety today, there are so many pop culture icons in lelr.vision, music, movi11s, books, comics, sports and even poli­tics. I have become jaded with not just the mere numbnr of such 
icons, hut also lh<~ qual-C.R. "Teo" Teodoro 
ily or pop icons today. lllu.maror 
Yet. I still have one pop 
culture icon that I havP rnrnairwd true to since 
my childhood. Though I know it is impossible 
to accurately imitate Urn pop culture icon 
from my youth, I still try my bnst to emulate 
my favorite comi<: book supP.rhero: the 
Amazing Spidflr-Man. 
To understand Spider-Man, you must tirst 
understand who he rnaJly is. He is PAtAr 
Parkf'r, originally a mild:mannered geeky 
high school nerd who has less of a social life 
than the Elephant Man. He was not someone 
espncially special at the timP. lie was always 
being bullied at school. He didn't come from 
an aflhrent family. In fact., he was an orphan 
being raised by his Plderly lower middle-class 
Uncle lfon and Aunt May. Compared lo other 
st1pcrl11~r0As, he was a loser. 
The last son of Krypton only pretended to be 
a somewhat goofy Clark Kent while still 
retaining his suave image o!'Superman. Brur:p 
Wayne was a whining millionaire brat that 
r.ould afford anything from his Batmobile to 
incompnt<mt policB contacts'. Parker had to 
work as a freielance photographer for a tyran­
nical newspaper guru. Before Parker was bit­
tcm by that fateful radioactive spider, he was 
just a normal kid like the rest of' us. In some 
cases, Im still is. Spicier-Man helped teach me 
to be myself. 
As a superhero, Parker didn'l have the 
sanrn awesome powers as the other supp,r­
heroes such as near invulnerability, flight, 
mrnrgy beams. superhuman strength, super­
human speed and state of the art technology. 
His prominent powers included wallclimbing, 
his webshooters. his proportional spider­
strength and agility and most importantly his 
famous spidrir sense. Basnd on his powers 
only, he would rank very low among super­
herm1s like Superman, Batman, the X-Men, 
the Avengers and Spawn. Yet Spider-Man 
relied on his wits more than anything else in 
order to defeat his vast number of impressive 
enemies. Spider-Man helped teach me that 
brains b1iat brawn. 
This brings me lo my next point: The quality 
of supervillians that Spider-Man had to face 
single-handedly. I [is enemies make most 
other supcrvillians look like jokes. Spidey has 
Lang!tid with the Kingpin, Dr. Doom, the 
.Juggernaut, tlrn Punisher, the llulk and even 
Wolverine and is slill able to live and talk 
about it. Yet there is still one more villain that 
1w otlwr superhero has even faced the likes 
of: James Jonah Jamesson (JJJ), newspaper 
editor/guru and Parker's tyrannical employer. 
Them is one lesson that Spider-Man has 
taught me that no other sup,\rhero can. "With 
great power comes great responsibility." Peter 
Parker bncanrn a superhero not because of 
revengr or exaggeratAd idealism, but through 
an understanding of his powers and his role 
as Spider-Man. Peter Parker lost his Uncle 
Ben to a burglar whom he could have stopped 
previously but !'ailed to because of pride and 
egotism. I have understood that despite what 
rights I have, what privileges that I possess, 
what rhoices I can make. I can never lose 
sight of the responsibilities of all my actions. I 
understand that my rights do not outweigh my 
responsibilities. For this insight, I wanl to say 
thanks to Peter Parker. the Spectacular 
Spider-Man. 
r!tl! uiews e;rpressed in the Inside Column are lhosP rf thP author and not necessarily those of'/'he Observer. 
¦ TODAv'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Pinn Pressly Julie Hamilcnn Brat! Unricdt Graphics Erin l'iroutek Scocr Hardr 
Sports Production 
Mike Connolly Kathleen Lopez Viewpoint Lab Tech Colleen Gaughen Kevin Dalum 
·11,, Obmvcr (USPS 599 2-4000) i, published Mon<l.1y rhrnugh Frid«y 
c:)(t:t"pt during cx.11n an<l V:tL;ttion p1;:riod11o. Th~ ()h:,.efY<-'r ii. a member of the A!!i!',OCialt:"d Prc,:i.. All rcproducrion righr~ arc rchef\'ed, 





utside the Dome 
Cnmpiled frnm fl-Wire reports 

Law enforcement officials set up fake ID crackdown 
AUSTIN, Texas 
Citv and stRte law enforcement offi­cials" say anyone who owns a fake ID should think twice before using it in coming months. 
"Operation Fakeout," the combined effort of 18 law enforcement ag-encies, will continue to conduct large-scale slings and educate bar employees about counterfeit identificati()n. The crackdown initiated in February is only the first in a series ofstings. 
On Feb. 12, 120 officers worked in conjunction with doormen at every bar on 6th Street double-checking ques­tionable identification and 48 minors were arrested for using fake IDs. 
The sting also netted at least three good leads for large-scale counterfeit rings. said Secret SP.rvice Agent David Wilkinson. 
Captain David Ball, a loading planner of Operation Fakeout, said the program will soon bP-come a large, state-wide 
1 


Starting in September, a minimum of . eight major op11rations per month are 
schf1cluled in all. major cities around 
Texas. 
Ball said the sessions held before the 
February sting to train bar and club 
owners to spot fake IDs have been very 
Affective. 
Ernie Montoya, Paradox general 
manager, said the bouncers at his club 
enjoyed the training. 
"Before, they wore punishing the 
clubs for allowing underage drinking, but now wn're sAeing a shift and they'rp understanding that the problAm lies with the people making these IDs," he said. · 
Simil.ar training sessions will occur beforn future operations, Ball said. 
Ball also said the publicity Operation Fakeout has drawn will Im mom 1ilfoc­tive in discouraging fake I[) use than targeting one bar at a time. 
"It was like shooting BBs in the water," Ball said. "Now Wt\'rn saying­let's get a shotgun and sne if we can't get somebody's attnntion." 
But. students say tlwy am unfaznd by Fakeout and will continue to use fake IDs. 
Nathan, a government junior, said he probably won't stop using his fake ID. 
"I heard about the big bust," he said, "but I'm going t.o kee1l using my II) because I'm pretty smart about it. Tlrny can't keep 100 agents down thorn Ion 6th Street! evPry night." 
¦ UNivrnsnY or CAL!FORNlA-BEfiKELEV 
Chancellor to uphold charges 
BERKELEY, Calif. 
University of California-Berkeley Chancellor Robert Berdahl declared Thursday night he would not waive charges against the demonstrators arrested during a 10­hour ethnic studies protest. "I feel that people who engage in civil disobedience do understand and should understand that part of the philosophy of civil disobedience is to call attention to your cause by suffering the consequences of your actions," Berdahl said. Five of the 46 protesters arrest­ed were taken to Berkeley City Jail for trespassing and dis­rupting the business. Those five demonstrators resisted arrest, said police Capt. Bill Cooper. Of the five protesters who were taken to jail, one faces an additional charge of battery after he spat on an officer, Cooper said. Negotiations that had been initiated between protesters and Vice Chancellor and Provost Carol Christ Wednesday afternoon were terminated. 
¦ UN!VERS!TV Of fl.OR!DA Bill calls for tax-free prepaid tuition 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. 
If a congressional bill proposed by Sen. Bob Graham, D­Fla., becomes law this year, the more than 5,000 University of Florida students who pay for college with the Florida Prepaid College Program will have reason to be a little hap­pier on tax day next year. The College Savings Act of' 1999 would make money invested in any of the 43 state prepaid­college programs tax-free when used. "!The tax-free status! would be beneficial because people signing up !'or the pro­gram are trying to save money already," said criminology senior Driscoll Ugarte. Currently, the difference in tuition rates between when the prepaid plan is bought and when it is redeemed is considered a taxable part of a student's income. "People feel they're being taxml twice," said Leesa Washington, a spokeswoman in Graham's ollice. "Money is taxed before it is put into the plan and taxed again when you take it out." 
¦ UMVEHSH"Y Of kUNOIS 
Student testifies in murder case 
Cl IAMl'AIGN, Ill. 

The prosecution rested its case Thursday against two Gypsy bouncers accused of murdering university student Ernest Seri, calling as its final wilrrnss his fiancee, who described the night the two of them went to Gypsy together. University of Illinois graduate student Angelica Dahiya. who had lived with Seri for about a year wlwn he died, said she and Seri went to Gypsy to visit a f'ricnd who was working in the upstairs or the bar. But when tlw two of' them attempted to get up the stairs. Dahiya testified, def'nndant Hobert Jurkacek told Seri he could not go upstairs because Jurkacnk "didn't likn the way he lookocl." She said S11ri insisted that he should be allowed to go upstairs, and tlrnn Jurkacek "got angry and started shoving Ernest and he started punching him." Dahiya said when the light lell Gypsy and moved out to the middln of North Market Strnet, the other clefonclant, Rubin Navarntte, joined in. 
¦ PmNCHON UNPJrnsnY 
Thesis envisions literature theme park 
PHINCETON. N.J. 

When Princeton student KP.nna Ilooper wr,nt lrnnrn !'or winter break her sophomore year, lrnr boyfriend at the tirnn asked her, "What's the bf1st way to tmu:h a book to a child'!" Iler response -that she would translatP tlw book into a theme-park ride -marked thn beginning of' an entPrprisn that would lead to a patentnd thr,sis and a job offnr l'rom CNN. llooper's English thesis outlines plans for tlw crPation of something that might senm self-contradictory: a tlwrne park featuring literature. In addition lo the thenrn park, lloopnr's thesis details her iclc1as for a rPlawd instituhi and resort. The three components or her vision would combirn1 interactive technology and education, she explained. "Oncn Upon a Time" -the proposal's trademark nanrn -would be a park based on "renowned classical and contnmporary literature," !looper said. Tho grounds the c:omplnx would be divided into literary categories, l looper said. 
¦ LOCAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

Accu\Veather®forec.:ast for daytime conditions. and high temperatures 
H  L  
Monday  ~54 36  
Tuesday  ~ 58 38  
Wednesday~ 63 45 Thursday ~. 65 48 


, ... "''!­


Friday 

q_Q,~G.QQ~~~ 
Showers T-storms Rain F1Ur:-1es S~o·~ ICl:J Sunny Pt. Cloudy Clo~dy Via AssocJBted Press Graphfr;sNel 


The AccuWeather"' forecast for noon, Monday, Apr. 19. 
s se arate hi h tern erature zones for the day. 
40s 40s7/ 
(/'1 / L ( \} 50s 
3 
90s 

, ,s ._ t:·:· 
,::. ":;''I.:, 

80s~70s 
FRONTS:
......... ..,,........
.....---Y' 

101999 Accuweather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
@'""'©  D  .  CJ .  CJ .  
High  Low  Showers  Rein  T~stanna Flurrlc,;a  Snow  Ice  
Vie As,saciaret.1 Pross  



Atlanta  73  42  Flint  51  35  Philadelphia  60  41  
Boston  59  41  Hartford  61  38  Sacramento  84  54  
Chicago  56  38  Las Vegas  92  60  Seattle  57  45  
Denver  74  42  New York  61  44  St. Louis  72  46  
Des Moines  63  41  Orlando  78  48  Vermillion  61  35  


Monday, April 19, 1999 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS page 3
------------------'------------~-----­
¦ CORRECTION 
In an arl.ido in Friday's 0bservor, a souret-J irn.:orrer.tly identitled Security ollicer Jami Thibodf'allx, who was injurod in the cooling tower explosion Thursday morn­ing was identified us u man. Thibodeaux is a woman. 
The Observer rcyr('/S /.he <'rror. 
,. 

r ------~ --WHY NOT1111 
1 "Give me your best shot. : ANSWER THE CALL--today!" 
--fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C., ND 180, '86, Rector, Stanford Hall 

I
•-----------~ 
For more information on Holy Cross' one-year Candidate 
Program contact: 
Fr. Jim King, C.S.C. or Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. 1-6385 
vocation. l@nd.edu 

~ ---_.. FOLLOW HIM .... ?/
.. 

• 


MOLLY MCGUlRE1S 
COFFEE HOUSE 
SECRETARY'S-WEEK 1S APRIL 19 -1,rd. 
Be sure to remember the most important person in the office. LUNCH at Molly's, a CAFE MOCHA and MUFFJN51 a CA.PPUCCINO with a fresh CROISSANT, or perhaps a GIFT CERT!FlCATI,. will make every secretary smHe! We will feature stuffed cantaloupe or stuffed tomato with crab, tuna or chicken saladi c1 cat5,tr salad with grille.d chicken brust; & our apple walnut s.lLid. 
MOLLY'S opens at 7 am Mon. -Fri. and we are .a. treJ.sure in your back yard. Filled with buutiful intiques and friend!y smi!es1 we are just minutes away; at the comer of Eddy Street and South Bend Avenue.. Carryouts available. 
Hope. to s« you soon! Molly 



Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame's chapter of Habitat for llumanity cleclicatecl its firth house Sundav at I 902 Freemont i\vrmue on South hPnd's northwest side. 
Under the direction of' faculty advi­sor David Kirkner, associate prol'ns­sor civil engineering and gnological sciences, Urn Notrn Damn group fund­ed and built this year's house. 
Father Hichard Warner, dirnct.or of' Campus Ministry, presid1HI at tlrn dedication of the house, which will lw owned by Mr. and Mrs. Blue Casey of South Bend. Mr. Casey is an employen of' the University. 
Habitat for llumanity has built more than (i0,000 honws nationwidP, making it one of the largest homP builders in tlw United Slates and tlw largfisl nonprofit honrn builder in t.lw world. 
llahilat housos am sold al 1w profi'L lo parlnPr l'amilins and arn linarH'.(•d with 110-intnrnst mortgagf\S issued for 15 lo 20 ynars. Mort.gagfi paynwnt.s am deposited in a rnvolving "Fund for llumanity" that. is usPCI lo build 1110r«' 1lahital honrns. 
llomeowner f'amiliPs are also rnquirnd to invest "swPal equity'} in l he constr II c ti on of' o 111(' r II ah iLat honws lmf'nre tlrnir own homl' is built. 
Sy01posiu01 to honor deceased professor 
Special to The Observer 
Christ': Catlwrirw's Trinitarian Tlrnology as a Foundation for 

A symposium in honor and hnr Tlrnology of' llw I loly memory of' Catlrnrin() Mowry Spirit." LaCugna, who was invnsted as LaCugna was a systPmaticthe Nancy H11()v11s Drnux theologian wlwsn lParhing and Professor of Theology in tlrn writ.ing focusPd on Tri11itarian 
fall of 1996, will b() hnlrl on theology. llnr hook "(;od For Tuesday. 
Us: The Trinity and Christian This academic evnnl posthu­Life" emphasizrnl tlw prartiralmously marks Lim inaugura­implications of' llw doctrinfi ol' tion of' tlrn Nancy He()ves tlrn Trinity l'or spirituality,Drnux Chair. 11thics, snxt11tlity and tlrn life ol' Spnak11rs at the symposium the Church. In I(JIJ2, "Cod 1-"<>r 
include prof"nssor Mary i\nn Us" rn1'.nived thn f'irsl placP()'l)onovan of the Jnsuil School award from tlrn Catholic l'rPSS of' Theology at Berkeley and i\ssocialion. past presidnnl of' t.hn Catholic l.aCugna also rncPived !Im 
Tlwologica I SociPly of' 1<JC)(i Slwmly award for nxr<'l­Amorica. ()'Donovan will 
lnnen in tnal:hing in tlw C:ollegPspPak on "Cnt.hnrinn. The of' /\rts and l.ntlnrs and l.lw Trinity and Pastoral Theology: 1992-I 1J 1J3 Frank 0'Mall<!Y thn Trajectory of' a u n d11 rgrad uat n tPa(" hi 11 g
Frim1dship." award . 
/\Ian Torrence, prof'fissor or Xavi1\r Univf\rsity in theology and senior lncturnr at Cincinnati prnsf•nlf•d lwr with King's Collegn, University of' thn Ec11nH1nical Chair /\wardLondon and Erasmus Fnllow al 
in 1990. Notrf! Damo, will spnak on "Cathcrinn l.aC:ugna has "T Im I rn pIications f'or made a SPlllinal moclnrn co11­
Ecumenical Dialoguo of' trib11tion lo tlw undf\rst.andingCathPrine LaCugna's 
of' the Trinity and has givPnTrinitarian Tlwology." 
gnnnrously in snrvicn lo thP 

l'rol'Pssor Mary Cathnrine Univnrsity, loo," said provostllilkerl of' tlrn department of Nathan llatd1, theology at Not.rn l>anw will 
l.aCugna diPd of' cancPr 011 speak on "The Vocation of' tlw May J, 'l 1) 1)7, Tlrnologian." 
Tlw Symposium will I.ab• ElizabPth Cropp('. a doctoral plaC(l from -i::rn t.o (, p.m. in studnnt of prof'ossor LaC:ugna, 
MrKnnna llall at tlw C:1·nt.1·r will address tlw topir 'Trom 
for Continuing 1:ducation and 

'God For Us' to 'Living in tlw will IH' followPd by Vnspt•rsSpirit of <;od, tho Spirit ol' and a rernption. 
page 4 The Observer. CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April 19, 1999 
Arias 
continued from page 1 
said. "There is a contradiction 
there." 
This mentality may stem from the American usage of the wmd "war." Arias pointed out that this term is associated with constructive U.S. projects, such as the War on Povcrtv and the War on Drugs. He also said that Americans hide their military inkrvcntion bel1ind notions of helping democra­cies, when in fact that is not always th(• case. 
"If one kills a person, it's called murder. If .in the United States you kill S.000 people, it's called foreign policy," said Arias. "I don't think we can solrn all the problems through militai·v means." 
Arias was also critical of the motives behind . NATO's involvemt'.nt in Kosovo. I-It'. called NATO an elitist group thal is undermining Lhe role of the Li.!\'. Ile nrgr1d Amr1ricans not to believe that NATO's actions in Kosovo are entirely purP, suggAsting that tlw situa­tion in Yugoslavia only displays on CNN American arms for pot,,ntia.l weapons buyers. 
"Certainly you are the lead­ing l"orce in I\ATO. but you are not fighting to bring democra­cy to Yugoslavia, l'or heaven's sah." Arias said. 
Taxpayers support the "immoral" weapons trade, Arias said. lie explained that in 1995, the American weapons industry received $7.6 billion in federal subsi­dies. · 
"We must allow our public policy lo grow out of our ethi­-eal convictions," Arias said. "War and the preparation of war is one of the greatest obstacles to human progress." 
Arias also critic:ized Third World countries who try to keep up in the arms race, devoting large portions of their budgets to defense. He said these countries spend $2 bil­lion on arms and defense. 
"lt is completely irrational," Arias said. "It is immoral, it is criminal for Third World coun­tries to be spending that kind of money instead of trying to satisfy the basic needs of [the] people." 
He noted that half of the world's governments spend more on defense than on health. 
Arias also discussed the cur­

1996 Global Military Expenditures* FAST 
continued from page 1 

$797 billion total 
FAST members, who work in teams of two, mainlain con­stant radio contact with a dis­
Sub-Saharan Afrfca $8 billion (1 %) 
Central & South Asia $18 billion (2%) 

patch c r who sends para­medics if the in_jury is large enough. The team which dis­covers the injured person does triage and radios the dis­
Caribbean, Central & South America $25 billion (3%) 
Non-NATO Europe $28 billion ($4%) patcher and to inform him of the extent of the injury. The 
Middle East &North Africa $50 billion (6%) 

team then bAgins appropriate 
100 
'In US dollars rounded to nearest 01llion Source: Institute tor Strategic Studi•.3S, London 
rent rule of globalization, r1xplaining that the decisions of American businesses and American consumers have inwrnational impa.ct. 
"In the past 50 years, U.S. corporations have expanded and with the assistance of the State Department have opened offices around the world." Arias said. "The challenge of the current generation is to embrace this global citizen­ship." 
He pointed to the accumula­tion of wealth into fewer and fewer hands, and said that this demonstrated spiritual, moral and leadership crises. He called on Americans to recog­nize their global citizenship and stop the cvcles of material­ism and milita.rism. 
"In this democracy, there is no room for guilt but always room for compassion," Arias said. "There is no place for resignation but only determi­nation. There is no stopping at simple charity." 
Instead, Arias called for soli­darity and for the end to unjust labor conditions, such as sweatshops. He emphasized that each person should take a leadership role in ending such practices. 
"My friends, I tell you today that human advances do not come when we wait to see if others will act.... Instead, pro~ress begins when each of 
Right to Life · 
General Meeting Monday, April 19 
Fr. Michael Baxter wi iI speak on the pro-life re­sponse to Kosovo. 
10:00 pm 
The Foley Room of LaFortune (third floor) 
Irish Fighting for life 

first aid measures while wait­ing for back-up. 
"Things come and go out of our bands pretty fast," said Howland. 
Individuals with injuries that can't be handled in the stadi­um are sent to Heallh Services or St. Joseph \1edical Center. 
John Osborn, ono of FAST's 1998-99 HecSports coordina­
I I I 
tors, said the organization
200 250 300 
allows students to help the community in a unique man­ner. 
"FAST givr,s students the 
Graphic courtesy of EarthAction 
opportunity to serve the University in a way not a loL of'
us starts to think globally," 
people can," said Osborn.

Arias said. "\-Ve ran livP with FASTs largest recent emer­
compassion, we can be more gency was when pipes broke
humane and we can iHdced 
in the stadium. !'tootling Urnlive in peace." 
area during 1997's Georgia
Arias is the author of an 
Tech gamt'.

International Code or Conduct ''We were still trying to geton Arms Transfers called ''The used to the new stadium, andArias Plan." The Code of Conduct, which Arias is work­ing to have ratified by govern­ments around the globe, calls 
NCAA 

for an end of arms exports to unstable regions, human rights 
continued from page 1 

abusers, dictators and militarv aggressors. Arias also used the the case to the NCM in March Nobel Prize monev to found 1998. the Arias Foundatio; for Peace Jerry Dominiack, Dunbar's 
and Human Progress. former employer, bas sued 
He received the Nobel Prize Dunbar's mother, sister and five for his efforts toward peace in former Notre Dame players in Central America. 
then all hell broke loose," said 
Howland. 
When the pipes burst. therl! was no tap water available. Additionally, the first aid rooms had been moved when the stadium's addition was built and many of the FAST workers were new. 
"It was 95 degrees and ghastly, ghastly hot," she said. "We had all these people over­heating. We had no first aid room, and we bad no water to cool them down. We were standing ·in the concourse in three inches of water. 
"J remember looking at somebody who had just bought a hot dog and was putting mustard on it, and I said, 'Why don't we take tlw ketchup and mustard off tlHl tables'?' So we did, and we put white sheets on tho tables and had a little f'ield hospital. ... I was soaked when I got back from that game," Howland said. 
l•ivn eoord.inators snt up staffing for various events and ensure things run smoothly. This year, strnior .Ion Cook coordinates sp()Cial evPnts, including runs, concerts and tlrn Keenan Hevue; .Johnson. a junior, coordinates foot!Jall; sophomun1s Osborn and Gina Pinrson coordinatr1 HncSports events; and Howland, a junior, roordinatns Bookstore Basketball. 
an attempt to rncovt)r some of' his company's losses from the embezzlement. The suit against the players -Jarvis Edison, Lee Becton, Ray Zellars, Dnrrick Mayes and Kinnon Tatum -is still pending. 
The Associated Press con­tributed to lhis report. 

Ayacht for the price of a dinghy. 

Now you can get it all without paying for it all. Because the PowerBook® G3 is more affordable than ever (see below). Awesome Pentium-crushing power.* Massive 14.1" screen. Endless adaptibility. All ofwhich can help you work faster and more efficiently. Leaving you more time to stop and smell the ocean breeze. Come in and test the waters. 
PowerBook® G3 prices have been slashed up to $700 with prices starting at $1799.00 Available Now. 
Call now for Apple's special ND student offers ! OIT Solutions Center Room 112 Computing/Math Bldg Phone: (219) 631-7477 (1 for sales) 
Apple Education Store: \\-WW.apple.com/education/store Authorized 1.800.780.5009 Value Added Reseller 
Dim Apple Compu!L'f, Inc. All rWlts ra,-vcr:I_ Apple, 1hc Apple lt1~J, .3nd Puwcrllook arc lm(krrtark.,; nf Apple (1.1mpu1cr, Inc., rq~l"fcrt'tl in 1hc U.5A. and Olhcr t·ountril'!i 
•h:rfurm.mi.-.: rnmpari."linS arc ha.ied on m1'Emark ini~y.L-r IC){. 

Monday, April 19, 1999 Ci:JMP!Ll:.D FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES pagt: 5 
• 
Grenade kills seven on Congo soccer field 
BIU\ZZAVII.LI•:. Congo 

,\ grt-nad,• la1111d11•d onto a higll school so,·c·pr fi,·ld killPd s<'Vl'll l'hildrPn ancl i11j11rl'd I:l oi.lwrs in a sub11r!J of' tlw <·.apilal of !111• l!t>ptildil' nl' Conl-{o. polict> said Sunday. i\ poli1·1· stat.P11w11t said s1w1•ral s1·ri11usly i11jur1·d !'!1ilcln,n. nil aged 10 lo 
I :i. had to lrnvP arms or IP gs alll]Hllatnd al'!Pr an 11nk1111wn atl.ack,•r firPd a grP11ad11 la1111rhn into a group playing 011 tlw liPld Sa Iurday art1•rn11011, Tlw atta1·k took plan1 nnxl door 10 Hra1:1avill<''s uniwrsity hospi­1a I..'\l'ridc•11tal l!Xplosious ol' hand grpnad1•s. 1..n P.XJlflSl'd during rl'('l'lll fight­i11 ~ in tlu• rapital hdWPnll gov1'.l'll11w11t troops and n•sid(•nts trying to oust l'rPsidPnl l>Pni,; Sassou-NguPsso. f'rP((llPllt­ly i11jur1• 1·ivili1111s in Brnzrnvill1•. 
Teen accuses parents of depriving food 
llAYTON, Ohio 

Thi' Pidl'S! or 1'011r rhildrf'll all1•gPdly long !'11r!Jidd1•11 l'rn111 i,•aving llwir l10mc• has told i11,·,..;1igat11rs ol' nlht•r harsh trl'al11wnt hy tlwir parPnts. including hPing dPprivnd of' f'ood a11d wal1•r. Tlw 1·liildrP11 -ag1•s 4, 8, l l and 17 -\\'l'l'f' n•nwvPd in lal1• .lanuary frnm tlw fa 111 ily's horn I' i 11 su burha ii llarrison Townsl;ip al'lPr llrn lPPn, Eddin SizP1111,rP Jr.. mnilPd a IPltl'r t.1, his 1warhv au111, pl!·ading for lwlp. Tlw you11gPr chil­dn·n Wl'l'I' found to s1wak l.o Parh otlwr in a hrnkt-11. guttural form of l•:nglish. All am now in tlw rarP ul' anotlwr aunt. Th1!ir par­Pllts. l•:dwarcl and Lucinda Siznmorti. rPmain jailPd a1'11•r plPading innocent last WP1·k to !'our counts nl' non-support ol' a dPp1•11dPnl, a 111isdl'llll',lllor. 
Jury convicts father of murder 
KENT. Wash. 

i\ man who shot his daughtc•r s1'vcm tinws last yPar al'IPr slw gav,, him a dirty look was ,·011virt1•d of first-dPgrnP murckr. A King County StqH'rior Court jury on h·iday rc,n­vi1·tpd llarrninrlt•r Singh Virk. 54, of' killing his l X-yPar-old daughtl'r, Hanjit. on May 13. Virk !'ams a 111i11im11m of' 25 ynars in prison whf'n Ill' is SP11t1•111·,·d 111•xt month. During his trial, Virk tc!sl.iliNI Im bPcanrn angry when lw saw his daughll'l" sl<•Pping al llw kitchen 1itlll1• inst1·ad of s!lldying for lwr driver's li1·1•nsP tc·st. \Vl1C111 lw rous1HI lwr, thn wo111an lookt•d al him and "rurled lrnr lip," lw said. Virk LPstifind hi' n•trirwnd a handgun in a ragl', trying to scan• l!is dauglltl'r. lln -.aid Ill' lwgan shooting al't<\I' slw once again mac!P a fan• at. him. Virk shol hr1r body !iv!\ lilllPS, tlwn rP!oadPd to firn two shots into lwr l11•ad. 111• lat.1•r tunwd hims11ll' in at a IH'arhy p11lirn stat.ion. 
745.41 ,7.48 
N,mlaq:
+11.17 2484.04 
-.17.7.l 
NYSE: 
624.90 
,2.fll

~ S&P 500: Composite Bl9.00 Volurne:10439.89 -.U5 
1191!,.~71 ,000 
VOLUME LEADERS 

s;;i.i:11.l&ril;(  :ua11  ~,,_.....  I aa.lSill  i:111.:li  
~UN "11CP08Yl>TI.M  :-;!JNO  ·9. 10  -:t. 4973  SJ. !i4  
1-ITl'HOMF'J" t.'DRr  l.lS'F"'J'  -2. 54  -1.2550  FIL Fi2  
lllLL. <'OKPUTER  DEL,L,  · 3, 92  -1,5-62S  )Ill. 25  
E.XECl.11'1.,NE 1Nf\Jii  )t''fON  •21.2&  +i.,-1:n  10 .lR  
t'(lMf)A,Q C'f!MPUiEil  crQ  •. 0l  -.00$0  ;u.02  
AMF.~ liNUNE lNTh.L. OOkP  AOL rnTr  -2 _00 -2.0l  ~7. !117!,0 •I lR?!)  U LOO !;7,25  
AHAZ.ot~ •COM IN<:  AMZ.N  •lJ.60  •2J, 1500  l'J0.00  
1..'!SC'O _;'YS'fEM$ Hl:J W()RLOCOflM rn  csc-o WCOM  -4 19 '1.30  -4. i22~ J.su,  10',, !i9 1!14, 7'j  

¦ -RISIS IN THE tMU<ANS 

NATO strikes increase, refugees flee 
BELGltADli, Yugoslavia 
NATO laundrnd ils most activn day nl' airstrikPs Sundav in its assault on Yugoslavia, pumn1nling rnfinnrins, bridgm; anti dozens or otlrnr targnts i11 what it clainwd worn "highly sucr.ess­l'ul" operations. But the refuge!! crisis only dnnp,rned on tho 25th straight day of all.ll'.ks ainwd at making Yugoslav Prnsidenl Slobodan rvlilosnvic halt his offonsivn in Kosovo and agrnn to a political set.tl<mwnl for thn Serbian provincP. 
E1hnic Albanians continuPd to pour oul. of Kosovo at ilrn ratn of a thousand an hour. bringing Snrb forces clos!:r to mnptying t.lw provinco of' its othnic Alba11ian majority. ,\n ostimati·d 
40.000 rn!i1gcm; nithnr lnfl Kosovo for rwighboring territory ovnr thn wnnk­c~nd or wern at its borders prnparing to hiavn. intc•rnational ol'licials said. 
In tlw lat1,st tragnciy to bdall rPl'ugnr-s. a car carrying a family across tlw border lo Albania Parly Sunday struck a land mini' plantNl ;1t tlrn ndgP of tlw narrow mountain path by Scirb l'orrns, killing lhrne children, llmir mothN and tlrnir grandmollwr. 
NATO also raiscd cwidcnn• or what it said w11rn 4'.l mass grave sitns in Kosovo -som o dug by groups ol' Kosovo Albanians rounded up by Serb l'orcns Lo bury tlmir countrymen. 
Tlw allianC'1•'s jPts nnw morc than 500 missions in Uw 24-hour period nnding Sunday af'tnrnoon -a total that a NATO military spokesman said was tho highest daily total ynt. 
NATO pilots struck sites across Serbia and il'i Kosovo provincn, where they reported seeing smoke rising from burning villages. Soon they will bn bolstered by 24 U.S. Apache anti­tank helicopter gunships intended to target thn Yugoslav army and spncial police forces accusnd ol' repressing Kosovo Albanians. 
NATO said the l'irst Apaches were expectnd in Albania l'rom Italy by Monday; howevor, severe rainstorms delayt\d dnploymcnt at least another 


day. An Albanian mtlitary source. meanwhile, said Sunday that several had already arrived elsewhere in tlrn country over the previous two days. 
Reflecting tnnsions over the stepped­up military ar.tivity in Albania, Yugoslavia severed diplomatic rela­tions with its southern neighbor on Sunday, tlrn Albanian Foreign Ministry said. 
Despite growing calls for NATO to send in ground troops. NATO Socretary-Gerwral .Javier Solana insisted thern wnrn still no such plans. But Solana said in a tehwision inter­view with tlrn British Broadcasting Corporation that "ii' thP moment comes when la ground l'orcPI is nerns­sary. I'm surn the 1'.ountries that bnlong to NATO will be rnady to do it." 
British ForPign S11rrntary Hobin Cook said 1wen ii' ground troops WPn• authorized, it would take two to thrne months to prnparn. 
Florida fire burns 70,000 acres 
ASSOCIATl".D P1rnss 
FOHT LAUDERDALE, Fla. 
A fire fed by rapidly shifting wind burned out of control in the Everglades on Sunday, consuming 70,000 acros of dry marsh grass and creating clouds of smoke 
thr1.t rh1rkenfld the Miami 
area. 
The fire began on the Everglad(1s· westorn edge Saturday. possibly ignited by heat from a vehicle's catalytic converie,r. It quickly became the largest of more than 
2.450 blazes thai have burned 130,000 acres in the stato thjs year. Firefighters from lexas and Arizona wAre called in to help. 
With rainfall 90 percent be.low normal during Florlda:s dry son.son, om~ cials fear a repeat of last 

sununer, when rires scorched 500,000 acres and forced 100,000 peo, pie from their homes. 
Meager showers late Saturday were more of a hindrance than help, making grass just damp enough to prevent setting backfires. 
Dry ~onditions, wlth temperatures in the 80s. gusty wind and low humidity, are (~xpected ln Florida through Thursday. 
The Everglades blaze has been dubbed the "Deceiving Fire" because ofits frequently shifting winds. At one point Saturday, names Jumped over a fire crew. setting 
the vehichi  near them  
ablaze..  N.o •oµii  was  
injured.  

"It was a fright for us and sta1·k reminder .of how dangerous this is," 
said Gene Madden, a 
state fire spokesman. 

Early Sunday, the fire 
came within 100 yards of 
Interstate 75, dosing the 
main coast-to-coast route 
across south Florida 
known as Alligator Alloy. 
Flames moved close to 
power lines in the 
Everglad(;1S and lines car­
rying electricity out of tho 
Turkey Point nuclear 
power plant south of 
Miami. 

For the second day in a 
row. spectacular clouds 
of reddish-brown smoke 
drifted 45 miles south to 
downtown Miami. where 
drivers used headlights in 
the daytime as they 
moved through city 
streets. A layer of ash 
dusted cars in the sub­
'urbs. · There also were small­er wildfires olsewh~ire in Florida. Fires in St. Lucie 
County, midway betw1wn Miami and Orlando, destroyed 43 homes and damagfid 33 otlwrs. forc­ing residents to spnnd the weekend searching ashes and rubble for anything worth saving. 
Miko and Kim Gusrang lived 13 years in thPir first honrn, a onn-story ranr.h style houso. destroyed by the fir<'. Th e i I' I o s s e s in,. I u d e d dozens of pictUl'l'S of' sons, Aaron, 9, and Jason. 4. 
"This was like our liHln dream house," said Miko Gusrang. 
In tho northorn part ol' the state, a5 families were evacuated and one houso was d(istroyorl Saturday in a 200-acrn fire near Panama City in the Panhandle. Officials said Sunday that fire is under control. 


page 6 The Observer• INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, April 19, 1999 

Associated Pres5 
NEW DELHI For years, Sonia Gandhi disdained •poJi;. tics a.nd hid from pubHc \.ioW, 
When hp,r mother*in-Jaw, Indira Gandhi. was assassinated in 1984, she pleaded with her husband, Hajiv,. agalust taking his mother's place as prime minis­ter. When her husband was killed in 1991, she went into seclusion, shtm1ting the politicians who begged her to lead them. . . 
Yet she reluctantly emerged from the shadows to :1.ccnpt. the inherltant,i of India's foremost political dynasty a year ago, when the venerable CongressParty reached its lowest point. Now, the rtaliari: born widow may be India's 11ext prim.e minister. 
On Saturday. Prime Min.ir,terAl~l · Bihari Vajpayee lost a vote oi>confidence in parliament by one vote and re~ignedi His fall wa.s precipitated by the defectioii of his bigg<lst coalition ally. 
The Congress Party,·which the Gandhi family has dominated since Indira's father. ,lawahartat NAhru, led itin the·· 1930s, is likely to form the next goverU:· ment. lfit cannot. an electionwill be held , within months. 

}\lthoughGanq'lli ·1fd, not.<irii~late,il\egovernment\ downfall, ·she engineerM the• final b.low: ln1i~u-•newspapers sa.id hof pe'tsbMl lobbying' on ·tJ'ie' telephone Fridaynigbt.turned key vote;; agalnst tbe g()Vernmentr .· ·.· . 
Forthe enigmatic Gandhi,Jt wa~. a rare foray,,beyondborimmediate:CwcI1kSheJs considered a strategist who lets her lieu• tenant~ carry ou(uecisipns, · 
·StiH a political novice who has never hgld .~. cfo(';!ed. ~fu.Ge,she i;arelr spe11,l<s1n public and does not hold .i.1ews confer­ences or giV".lenfhy interviews. 
Gandhi's ?'i:.1.mpaignlrig before the 1998 elections was credited witb rescuing the fastsdectining, ,centUJ:Y•old, party frotn oblivioµ. After the election; sbe agreed to becomeihe :parl,y's,presidortta.nd.focused on r<>building it after.· years of .scandal af!d. jp~ectiy(dQa,cler$hlp. 
Although she is an intensely private p;~rsqn1, [nd~:ills.}yi.ve t\lWl:\.Y? beep Jasci­nated by GanofrL Ber"Jac<~ is a favorite for magazirie covers', Even. during. h.er yi}art{ •of'si1¢nce',Jwery private nieetirig, smile or noel was l.lissected by the Indian pr~ss/whicl\ speeul1tti'id mtwho"wasln f1,1.vor a.pd wbo Wll.5 out. •· · · 
,Visiting dignita~ies,l'IJUtmeiy caUed <m her at ber home, a,<; if she "Were an elder :statesman.,: ...• , ·<• 
' If she b()Comes prirne iriini~ter' her 
italiaTl od~i11 .~H. c~e under grefl;t~r
$crutiriy. During the ttii'M•day c6nfidence 
debate, onr. spe~ker ignitQd ashoving match when he referred to· Gandhi as "a foreigner." . . , 
Aliahd Mohan;a;n op.posttiou.member who -crossed sides to vote for the govern­rnent, told .remn;iers, ..11A, foreign :natlon~tl. cannot be accepted as the primQ minis­t,e:r. If I ha~ to qtioosc;, he~'l,)ei:1 :VajpayQe and Sonia Gandhi, I would choose Va.jpayM a tho:isan~time$.n He noted that Gan.dbl w:is m4rriod tnany years before adoptinglndian citizenship. 
Although M~na· Homan,cathoJic; •she shows public rQvorence (or Hinduism, India's pl'edominaJ11. religion. She wears saris and speaks a roqgh, at;cented Hindi. Her daughter Priya,n:lca, 27, holps draft manyofher speechflS. 
Gandhi. 'Whp Js..5l<lllpther pusb.apd 
· · when she ,vas an 18~year,old student at 9~mbrid~ej~ .Lo~d?n, the first .time she was away froli1 her i}ativQ Ito.ly. During most of their courtship, she did m,1t know 
···hewa:l'.the$on.6flnditfs prime 1ftinist1>,r. 
Despite doubts iuany .. have about a for­. eign~born Jeade:rs,. Gan(}hi has won .many hearts by embra.citig the essence of 
Jn.di!ln li(estylq..For traditional In(iians, 
that means becoming a loyal daughter­
in-law and member of her husband's 
family, 
No one was closer to Indira Gandhi 

thanSonia, When the prime minister was 
assassinated by her own bodyguards in 
1984, it was Sonia who cradled tho hoad 
of the dying woman. 
"My mother-in-law had been the center 

of our universe ... the pivot of our lives," 
Soni;.t Gandhi later wrote in a book. 
But when the Congress Party turned to 

Rajiv, then a pilot for Indian Airlines, t.o 
take the leadership of the party, she 
begged him not to accept. 
"1 pleaded with him. with others ·around him, too. He would be killed as 
well/ she wrote in a book dedicated to 
her late husband. "He held my hands, 
hugged me, tried to soot.he my despera• 
tion: He had no choice, he said. lfo would 
be killed imyway." 
Rajiv Gandhi served a full five-year 

term, but lost the 1989 election when his 
rianie was linked to a payoff scandal· in a 
huge arms deal. 
He was killed during a campaign appearance in south India by a woman Who detonated explosives attached to her body. 
¦ ENGLAND 

Pinochet faces months of detention after ruling 
Associated Press 
LONDON 
Former Chilean dictator Gen. 
Augusto Pinochet faces the 
prospect of more months -if 
not years -under guard after 
Britain's top law enforcement 
official ruled Thursday that 
Spain can continue seeking his 
extradition. 
The 83-year-old general must 
rnmain confined to his rented 
mansion outside London, guard­
ed 24 hours a day, while his 
lawyPrs battle with Spanish 
prosecutors. 
In a new ruling, llome Secretary Jack Straw said even though tiw llouse of Lords dras­tically rnduccd tlw case against Pinochet last month, the rPmaining allegations arc seri­ous enough to go forward. 
lluman rights groups immedi­
ately hailed tlrn decision, saying 
the alleged victims of Pinochet's 
military regime am one step 
doser to justice. 
"After 2:i years of impunity, 
this delinitiv(' ckc:ision hastens 
the dav when Pinoclwt will have 
to an.swer for his terrible 
crinrns." said Heed Brody of 

Human Rights Watch, a partici­disappeared at the hands of his pant in the case. "Dictators the secret police after he ousted the world over should take notice." country's elected Marxist presi­
But Fernando Barros, a close Pinochet associate, called Spain's case "politically moti­vated" and said Straw's decision was "a blow to all those trying to achieve reconciliation in Chile." 
In Chile, the government lamented the ruling and said it will continue to explore "all the judicial and political alterna­tives still available" to sr,r,k Pinochot's release. 
But Chilean Foreign Minister Jose Miguel lnsulza said there will be no reprisals. The gov­ernment has sought Pinochet's release since his arrest, saying foreign courts have no authority to try the case. 
Demonstrations f'or and against the decision went off pnacefully Thursday in the Chilean capital of Santiago. 
Pinochet was arrested Oct. 16 in London on a Spanish warrant alleging thousands of abuses committed during his 17-year regime. 
An official Chilean report says 3,197 peopln were murdered or dent, Salvador Allende, in a bloody 1973 coup. 

Last month, the House of Lords, Britain's highest court, ruled that Pinochet enjoyed only limited immunity from arrest as a former head of state. 
The court threw out the bulk of the case against him, saying most of the charges against the general had to be dismissed because they predated Britain's 1988 adoption of an interna­tional law against torture. 
But enough charges were upheld -including allegations that he tortured his opponents -to keep the extradition request alive. 
Straw already had granted permission in December for proceedings to go forward, but wanted to consider Spain's request anew in light of the sharply reduced case. 
In his latest decision, Straw rebuffed arguments that Pinochet, arrested while recu­perating from back surgery, was not fit to stand trial. Ile also said Spain's attempts to prosecute the general did not pose a threat to Chile's sover­eignty or "its future d()mocra­cy." 
The extradition case was adjourned until April 30 to allow Pinoch1)t's attorneys tinw to study the d11cision to detnr­mine grounds for an appnal. 
Legal experts said they expect prosecutors to prepare a fresh arrest warrant in the meantime, which probably will includP sonrn of the allegations Spanish Judge Baltasar (;arzon has add(;d in n'C()nt months to bol­stnr his case. 




.s'l9n-apJ f!atfltln9 and flu.ildln9 .s'fltvlcflJ 
.SlfiibtJ: !u.flJdar, fJptll20 tvedn.~Jday, flptll21 
ln ,£a7'ottune ('Ooole'f ~m.) 9u.fljfto-n,j? (!a/I 63 I -544 9 

For time and location of meeting, call: 1-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C Sr.Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C. 
All Meetings are private and confidentiaI. 
.---------­
Monday, April 19, 1999 The Observer • KOSOVO NEWS page 7 
¦ ALBANIA 

US reports on Kosovo death toll 
A<sociated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Tnns of thousands of young ethnic Albanian men -possibly as many as I00,000 -may have hn11n killnd bv Sorb othnic cleansing of Kiisovo, tho U.S. ambassador for war crimes said Sunday. 
David Schnl'fer also said Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic "cnrtainly lisJ a prime target for investigation" as a war criminal. Milosevic has been advised of' lhul in a letter from prosecutor Louise Arbour of tho 
U.N. war crimns tribunal in the Nethnrlands. 
Sdrnffer. appiiaring on "Fox News Sunday," brought sido-by­side photographs of the west­central Kosovo ethnic Albanian town of' Izbica that hf' said proved mass killings by Serbs. 
The photos, released Saturday by NATO, dqiirtod an area takon at different limns. In one photo, up to 150 graves had appeared wlrnrn nothing nxisted hel'orn. 
Scheffer called it "a classic 1ixumple of ethnic cleansing ... 
The Serbs came in, torched the town and then proceeded with massacres of individual groups of Kosovars," he said. 
Asked about a NATO claim that ethni.c Albanian refugees had roported 3,200 doaths at the hands of Serb security forces, Scheffer said: "That's a very low estimato." 
Uased on unconfirmed refugee reports and other sources of information. Scheffer said: "You're actually looking at tho possibility of tens of thousands of Kosovars who not only are at risk, but also may actually have perished by this stage.... We have upwards to about 100,000 men that we cannot account for." 
Hcfugces have spoken of ethnic Albanian men, largely those of righting age, being separated from relatives before the families were forced to flee. 
"We have no idea where thoso men am now," Scheffer said. 
Scheffer. the United States' first ambassador•at•large for war crimes, said the United Statos will provide prosecutor Arbour with "as much informa­

tion as possible .,. to support her investigcLLion." 
He said Sorbia Is providing sanctuary to war crimes suspects already indicted for. a!I~ged atrocities during the Bosnian war of the early 1990s. 
"The pressure is going to remain on Slobodan Milosevic 1mtil ... anyone indicted on his territory is in fact transforred," Scheffer said. 
"If there~s any thought that Serbia will somehow join the new Europe or the international Community until that is t;Jone, that's a false hope." 
Scheffe.r admitted that. with dozens of wars under way, pros­ecuting all war criminals will be a huge task 
But, he said, ''One of the great challenges, I think, of the ?1st century is to ensure that there is individual accountability for the commission ol' thnst} crimes.... It's going to take a lot of hard work over the coming yeal's to get a grip on this and to establish a principle of deterreneo that, hopefully,. 30, 40, 50 years from now will begin to sink in." 
Kosovo emigres 
returning to fight 
indep<rn­d e n t home­land.  'THIS IS OUR LAST CHANCE IN HISTORY TO WIN Kosovo. IF IT  GPrmany. I 11 Durres, t h e  
"This is our I a s t  DOE.5N'T HAPPEN NOW, SHAME ON ALL ALBANIANS.'  recruits' first stop is the  
chance  "Drnnica"  
in histo­ry to win  I IISMAIL UXIIAJ  caf'e, a beachsidc  
Kosovo,''  ALBANIAN HMIGIIH  c o  f f e  e  
among 150 recruits who 


Associated Press 
DURHES 
They arrive from Gl~rmany, France and the United States hv the dozen, young K~isovo Albanian emigrns firnd up by images ol' Serb atrocities and determined to win K()sovo for ethnic Albanians. 
In a matter of days, they will be getting their first military experience in training camps in the northern Albanian moun­tains, before ducking across the border into language broadcasts -is considered obligatory for all mPn ages 18-55. Only thoiw who are sick or who can contribute financially to the Kl./\ am considnrnd nxnmpt. 
the  rebellious  Kosovo  
province  in  a  fervent  
guerrilla  
battle  
for  an  

Though many have lrnen living abrnad l'or yPars. the rocruits have maintained Albanian tra­ditions and many said thnrn was no question about how they would respond. 
"I heard about. the KLA call on the Albanian radio for diaspora, and immodiately signnd on," said 24-year-old Gazmend Maliqi, among t h o s e arriving f' r II 111 


0 

THE HARDEST DECISION YOU'LL EVER MAKE. 
Right now at Burger King-restaurants, you can get a legendary WHOPPER" or Jelicious BfG KING" sandwich, plus medium fries and a soft drink, for only $2.99. Now we know it's hard to choose between the WHOPPER~ and the BIG KING,e but think of it this way: Either way, you can't go wrong. 
The Huddle • Lafortune Student Center 
BURGER 
KING 
It just tastes better.· 
www.burgerking.com 
said 20­
ycar-old Ismail llnxhaj, 
arrived this week from 
Germany al the Albanian 
port of Durres. "If it 
doesn't happen ll()W, 
shame on all Albanians." 
Since the Kosovo 
Liberation Army (KLA) 
called up all Kosovo 
Albanian men to fight 
/\pril l. I0,000 recruits 
havn arrivPd in /\lbania 
-mostly from Germany, 
Swilz<irland. France and 
Austria, whcl'li they havn 
been working illegally. 
The f'irst group of 
recruits from thn UnitNl 
States landPd this wenk­
(md. 
They am joining a rag­tag band of guorrilla fighters run by comman­ders in thiiir 30s without formal mililary lraining tlrnmselv(is. and with very few rPsources and l'ew guns. Them have been no reported batt!ns where they made a sig­nificant defnnse. 
By the (: n d nf Ilw month, KLA officials expect 15.000 more recruits -motivated by scenes of nthnic Albanians being driven from tlwir homes to neighboring countries, their housns burned, doc• umcnts destroyed. Many voluntenrs havn relatives in Kosovo who cit.her are dP;,a? or missing. . 
1 he worse thn situa­tion gets in Kosovo lhe more peoph~ get outraged and want to join the Kl.A," said Avni Mustafaj, presidnnt of the National Albanian American Council in New York. 
"It's not the American soldiors who should risk their livns," Mustafaj said. rel'nrring to N/\TO forces pounding Serb tar­gn ts in Yugoslavia. "Albanians can do it themselves, but they don't have weapons." 
Within the tight-knit Albanian emigre commu­nities. the call lo servir.e 
spread over the Internet and Albanian­
s h o p 
named after the Kl./\'s 
stronghold in Kosovo. 
Two KL/\ soldiers 
armed with automatic 
guns and wearing 
fatigues, combat shons, 
black sunglasses and 
black scarf's stand guard 
at tlrn gate. Though d1icp 
insidn Albania. tlw mood 
is tnnsn and sl'curity is a 
lop cone1irn. 
Only thosn with Kl.t\ authorization an• allow(•d in. EvPn insidP, KL.'\ ol'li­cials are on tho lookout for Yugoslav spins among the rncru its. 
Heer u it o l'l'i cc• r Fi Lim Krasniqi said four "spiPs" wnro arrest1id last Tu11sday, and wern bning held by tlw KLA in north­
nm Albania. 
"Wn recnivn compll1tn lists of' tho rncruits f'ro111 our o!Tices in Europe. so we know exactly how many are coming in a given day and whnrn tlwy are coming l'rom," said Krasniqi. 
As hn semens rrnwcom­ers. Krasniqi spots a young man taking pie• tures with an amatnur camera. and sends onP of' the KL/\ guards to chnck his papers. 
In the back yard. thn arriving rncruits fill out forms with kny data: thnir namns. agns, and a family contact phone rrnmlrnr . 

A short w hi In I a t1i r. tlrnv hoard minibwws f'or tho· northern border l'or two wneks of training bnf'orn they join thn figh L 
Like the rncruits. Krasniqi's lifo has unrlnr­gonn a dramatit'. turn in tho 14 months of fighting over Kosovo. 
.lust last ynar, thl' 22­ynar-old l'inislmd studies at Tirana Univnrsity, earning a degrPn in Albanian languagn stud­ies and litnraturn. 
Now, the fighting has narrowPd tlwir prnspects. 
Their only focus is what they call "the final battlo to win Kosovo, or die." 
Monday, April 19, 1999
Page 8 The Observer• PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Abortion, euthanasia and capital 
punishment demean the lives of 
countless inciividuals in our society. Gather with us in Eucharistic Adoration. to prar for an end to the culture of death. 


"I malw a holy hour each day in the presence of Jesus in the Blesse£!:,Sacrament. All my sisters of the Missionaries of Charity malw a daily holy hour as well, because we find that through our daily holy hour oiff love for Jesus becomes more intimate, our love for each other more understanding, and our lovefor the poor more compassionate... " ;i::; ., :~ 
;Jf; -Mother Teresa 
~f::. ·;~
.,f· 

Spon~ored by Noire Dame Righi 10 Life AMDG • )Ml 

Jesus is here with us in the Eucharist to give us answers-answers 
that will lead us to truth, happiness and peace. In this culture of 
death, it is easy for people to become weary and indifferent to God 
and His gift of life. People often fall ·short of their obligation to care 
for and nurture the spiritual and physical lives of themselves and oth­
ers. Eud1aristic Adoration gives a person the opporlunity to nu11ure 
his own spiritual life, as well as the spiritual lives of others 
( through prayer for them.) Prayer also protects the physical 
lives of those endangered by abortion, euthanasia and 
other forms of violence. It is 01ily through the grace which 
com~s-from prayer that others' hearts can be changed from seeking death to loving life. Christ gives us the strength to press on in our battle for life. In order to be Christ-like in our service to preserve life, we must be filled with His life through prayer. We ask you to join us in prayer for life at Eucharistic Adoration. 
What is Eucharistic Adoration? 
God is present to us in many ways in our. world, but He is especially present to us in the Eucharisl. As Roman Catholics. we believe that Jesus Christ, who lived 2000 years ago, is truly present in the Eucharist. In Eucharistic Adoration, the Host is placed in a monstrance, in order for us to be able to come and pray. Jesus is always hidden iu the tabernacle, but in adoration lie is exposed so that we can come and kneel before Him, face to face, and speak with God. Wl1en Jesus is exposed like this, lie can never be left alone. Thus, people sign up to be responsible to come and pray with Him for a certain amount of time (usually 1/i-l hour) every week, 
Why should I go? 
If lesus were to come to the JACC, wouldn't you come and stand in line for hours just LO talk to Him for a minute? Even if you weren't Christian, wouldn't you be at least interested in this God so many people talk about? Well, Jesus is truly present here on campus-in the Eucharist. IN ADORATION YOU HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY TO GO AND SPEAK WITH GOD FACE TO FACE. You can confide in Him, plead with Him, question Him. And if you sit quietly enough, He will inspire you with answers. 
What do I do when I am there? 
When you .enter the chapel, you should genuflect as a sign of reverence to Jesus. It is common practice during Adoration to genuflect on two knees, instead of just one (like you do whenever you enter a chapel.) You can stand, sit, or kneel-whatever helps you pray. And then you pray. There are many ways. to pray: you can do spiritual reading; you can pray a rosary; you can sit in silence; you can even just talk to Jesus­like you woul<l to a friend. The mosl important thing is that you love Him and allow Him to love and strengthen you. 
\Vhai does the Church think? 
"Exposition of the Blesseµ Sacrament, whether in a pyx or a monstrance, is arecognition of the wondrous Presence of Christ in the sacrament and stimulates us to unite ourselves to Him in 11 spiritual communion. lt is, accordingly, eminently in harmony with the worship which we owe Him in spirit and Lruth ... " 
-l'osl-Conciliar (Vatican ll) Documcnl, S.C.D.W. 
EUCHARISTIC ADORATION ON CAMPUS: 
FRIDAY: Lady Chapel in the Basilica: 12:00pm (following 11:30am Mass) -5:00pm with a Rosary beginning at 4: 15pm. (Ends with Benediction at 4:45pm) 
MONDAY beginning at 11:30pm (following 11 :OOpm Mass) through TUESDAY at 10:00pm (Ending with Benediction at 9:45-10:00pm) In Fisher Hall Chapel. 



Monday, April 19, I999 The Observer. NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
TVcycles help kids to shed fat BoIDb threat leads 
A,M1ria1c,l t~H''>1' ll1•sparch shnws iPlnvbio11 is a sairl, "WP ,iusf said, 'llc•rn yo11 major culprit f'or kids, mcsmcr­go. For Lim TV to work, you 
to trouble for town
Wi\Sllli\l(;J'ON izing childrnn who olhnrwisn havn lo pndal. Sne ya,"' ho said. 

The Alumni Association is hiring people who would like to work from June 2 ,1999 thru June 5, 1999 
I 

for Reunion '99 
/ 

You'll have lots of fun while you earn extra spending money!!! Please Apply at Student Employment at 336 Grace Hall or the Alumni Association at 100 -Eck Center 

l'an•nts 111;1v hav,· a wav to hudg1• lhPir diip-c-l10111ping, °TV­wal.l'hin!-( kids l'rorn llw family ,;111':1: a l>icydc• liookl'd up (•lp1•tri­c·,illv to th1· s1•t. To S('f' t.hc-ir fav,;rilt• shows. c·ot1d1 polat.nns 11111 ,, t" pc·clal. 
/\11 ol>t'sitv rPsc•nrrllPr who c·amc• up wit!; th" "'TV!'yrll'" says Party tryouts '1Plpc•d yo1111gstPrs ..,llf•d fat a11cl clisro11rng:Pd TV \'il'Wing. 
IJnvid .,\llison of' St. Luk1•'s­llrn1sPYPlt llospi ta I in NPw 'fork knows pan•nts an· not goillg: 111 rnrP lo n·win· TV 
,;pis HTHI Iii' ('a11tio11s that '1AM NOT NAIVE ENOUGH TO THINK 1lwro was some clwat­town's six schools for the 'ctay. his; findings a1·p prc>limi-forcing pal'ents to scramblfl for 
WE'RE GOING TO SOLVE THE WORLD'S ing, wh(rn parents lets 11arv. kids watch a special day care and tacking an extra 
OBESITY PROBLEMS WITH TV's HOOKED school day onto the summer
11;11 hc• savs his small show on a set not part of Silldy or a r .. w<JVl'l'Wl'ight TO BICYCLES. BUT THERE ARE OTHER tho test. /\llisnn said. holiday for 3,B22 students. NPW York 1'!1ildrc·11 is That was one of at least six
But tlw pedaling kids
THINGS WE COULD DO ••• THAT ARE LIMIT­

importanl lwrnusP it sug­finished thn study with bomb scares at Maine schools g<•sls link,·ring with tlw ED ONLY BY OUR IMAGINATIONS.' two pnrcnntage points over the past month, relliicting l.l'l'hnolo!-(y lli,Ll makns Iii'!• loss total body fat and a problem across the country. more• (·0111fo1"1ablP -hut lhrc\e pflrrnntage points Mindful of terrorist attacks also 11rnn• sPdPntary and DAVW AU.ISON less fat on their !l~gs than and recent school violence, foltPning -rnulcl 1i..1ji trim Ht:'Slit\ll(.'/11:"Jl, .1.;r. f.UJ..'J(S-ROOSl:'VHJ.T l/OSl'ITAL tho othnr children. So authorities can no longer con­
,\m Pr i n1 ns'  ,, .\ pa 11d i 11g  
waistlinc·s  
"I  am  not  naive• c!nough  lo  

think WP r1• going t11 solve• till' world's olwsit.y prohie· ms with l'Vs hook<'d Lo bicydcis," Allis11n said. "But tl1Pn' an• otlwr things WI' c;oulcl do ... 1hat arP lirnitPd only hy our imaginations." 
Tlw National lnslitutPs or IIPaltli says ahe . 11l :i:i JJl'ITl'nl of Anll'rirnn adults an• DVl'J"\\'('ighl or ohl'sf', up from 4] pt•1T1•11t in I'H,O. Studi,·s also suggPst morn IIH!ll I:1 pPl'C'('lll of youngstnrs ag<'s r, through 17 ar<' ovPr­\\Pight. and g«'lling fatl<'r Pach v1•ar. · I.ark oJ' 1•xP1TisP is a main 
l'ilIIS!'. 
might burn ralorins whilo play­ing. 
l•ormal nxnrcise programs do nol help m uc:h bPcausn it is hard to gPl to a g:vm or playgrounrl n•gularly. partirnludy for young ('hildr(•n with busy pan·nts, so sriPnlisl.s ar(i hunting liw homn­basnd trii·ks lo !{nt kids moving, Allison said. 
i"or his PXpPrinwnt, an Pngi­llPCH' rnwirnd TV s(1ts to work only while-ti!(' vit·wcr \'\as µPd­
aling an attadwd bicycle. Built­in computc~rs measun• how long 11H' tnlnvisions wnrn on. The TVcyclos. whi('h arn back in Allison's office as he hunts morwy for a larger study, are 11ot liir sale•. 
With N Ill funding, Allison cl1,JivnrPd thn TVcyclos lo six ovPrweight TV rans. ages 8 to 12, and put standard exercise bikes in front ol' telnvisions for l'our similar childrnn. 
Thn kids did not dir.t and the tl'lovisions for tlw TVcycle group wnre lock1!d to preVPnt chnating. 
Nobody naggnd tlrn youngsters to pPdal or losn weight, /\llison moved outside. Lunch was served l'rom trucks and portable toilets limid the ath­letic linld. 
After f'ivc threats in two weeks last foll. Fort Dodge Snnior High School in Iowa began requiring that matorials be deliVl·re<l in clear contain­ers. Stud,•nts arc• grndPd by two guards posted at Ihe> building's only ontranco. 
In Maryland's An1w Arundel Countv. hundrnds or studPnls phon;,d in or posted bogus bomb threats, forcing nearly daily 1w;1eualions. Now r·allc>rs to at least Oil() Annapolis high school are greeted by a warn­ing that calls may b1• recordnd or traced. 
In New Jersey, the Lower Camden County Begional Sr,hool District arloptod a tough expulsion policy last year after ii had 50 lwaxPs al Its four schools. Crimin!ll chargus havu · been filnd against 27 people, including 24 studtints. 
Thero arc no procisc figurcis on the number of' bomb threats at schools because oducatorfl are not r1iquired lo report such incidonts, said Michael Higgins, spPcial pro­
grams coordinator l'or  tlw  
Maine  Department  of  
Education.  

Even if them is no bomb to go with a threat. it's still a headache for authorities. 
"It's a huge disruption in tlw normal r-ourse or business," said Brunswick Police ChiC'f' Jerry llinton. "This just isn't kids out. of school l'or a day." 

Tt•n wncks latnr, thn l<iur kids who watched tnl,wision whiln lolling on the couch saw 20 hours a WPnk and bicylt>d only Pight minutes a WPPk, Allison said in an intnrvinw Friday bnfore presenting his results at a biolog-y conf'nrnncP Sunday in Washington. 
Tlw six TVryrl1· kids watclwd an hour a wnPk and pndalml an hour a wnnk. But that was not all tlw lVcydc kids watchml. 
Tlrny cl id not p1!d a I 
wlrnn the family walclwd 
tnlcvision together and 
BIWNSWICK 
A slnglo phone call just. aft(ir midnight turnnd Brunswick upside down for a clay. 
Someone callml police to say tlrnrn was a bomb in tho loGal high school. Loss than an hour lat.er, officer Mark Lafountain could hear his heart. pounding as ho and soveral bomb-sniff­ing dogs were inching through thr dimly lit school. 
No bornb wa.s found. But tho threat alone shut down the 

Lhose kids must have 
heon morn active during tlrn time onr,e spent watching TV. 
"It's quitr amazing they'd sel'i any change in such a short time and in kids who did not diet," said Michael .Jacobson of the Center l'or Science in the Public Interest, a consumer advocacy group that lights obesity. 
Allison says thl' study shows scientists should look for innov­ative ways to enr,ouragc physi­cal activity and bnttnr nutrition. 
One of I1is more radical sug­gnstions is charging a quartnr to ride an elevator, which might lead morn people to use the stairs. 
sider bomb threats as mere 
crank calls. 
"In light of the significant 
levels of violence that our pub­lic schools have experienced for the past year and 11 half. it has dramatically changed the way threats are being han­dled," said Ronald Stephens at · the National School Safoty Center near Los Angeles. "Threats can no longer be 
taken lightly." 
In East Montpelier, Vt., fldu­
cators got so fed up after 
seven bomb threats at a high 
school that they decided to 
rethink the policy of canceling 
school. Inste.ad, school was 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10-----------------------os~ERVER Monday, April 19, 1999 
THE OBSERVER 
N<JTRt. DAM~. OHICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631•7471 
1999-2000 GENERAL BOARD 
En1ToR-1N-CHIEf Mich_elle Krupa MA~AGING f'lllTOll u,,s,~r.SS MAMGl'll ; M. Shannon Ryan Dav~ Rogero 
As51'iTANT MANAGING Eunon 
L1Hra l'etdle 

NEWS EorroK ... . . ................ Tim Logan ADVERTISING MA~Ar.ER.. ....llry,11 Luu \'U:.WPOINT EOITOR .........Colleen G:iui;hen AD DtSICN MANJ\Cl"R .........Ke1111erh Ke:1rncy SPORTS EDITOR ......................... Bri.in Kt:::,;/ikr SYSTEMS MA.'lAGLR...............,..,Michad Rcvr.-rs Sn.NE Enn,m.. . .......... Mid,.id \',11,eg.i.s Corsrnou.E1<............................... .Timod,y Laue ·5A1r,;1· MAR,'S E1>1TllR ......Colleen McC,nhy GRAP1-U6 ED1101L ............................]ue Mueller P11oro Eo1 rort .......................Kevm Dalum · Wm Al>MINIS'IRAfOR.......................Enk Kmhco 
·1 ht: (1Uservt'r i~ d,1: rnJqxnJ1.:m 111.:w!ip.tpcr p11hli<J,ed by th,; ~1ud-l.'.nh ol ,hie U1iiv..:r~ay oft\mu: D.mu: Ju Lie ,mJ ~iril M,1rv's (:f'illq;,t:. 11 dut"\ not 1Ki.:t:!>.-..inly 1'-'.tl1.ct du.: p<ilic1,.;..'i d rhc-adn1in1:.rr.tti(lJ1 nfi:1rht:r i11:,;ri!urain. The m,-w.,_ i:-. rqtorrcJ ;1: ill.CUr.1!d)' ,ulll nbji:cuvtly .J..\ pu:-..'iibk. lJn,;ignt:J dituri.i.h n.:prcsmr iln: npi11i?n ~ifda: majoricyof th~ 
EJiu)r-1n-Chid, M,u1.1ging Ei.litor, A,!'li!lt.uu Manat,ing EJiwr and Ji:pamncm .:d1wr:s. C11mrn~·1n;1r1c-,, krn.·H ,md 1.olurnn.~ p14,:.,;:~·m 1lw vi.:w~ ,,r th~ m1d1<,1r?1. .111d m>l n\.'.cx,.~arily thQsl." ofTiu: <.lh~erve1. \'i\.'¼poim >pa-:~ is il\ail.1blc ui .ill mcmhL·r~ of the Nmre Darm.· 1S;1im \1.1ry\ com111uniry and rn :11! r.:.1dcn. Tl11.!' frc-£ expn.'f>,ion of vary111g opinions 
Contacting The Observer 
Eduo1·in·Chicf 6.\1·4542 Office Jl,fan.gcr/Genei.il lnfornrnc1011 G31-747J Manr1.ging Edlror/A.:,sbtant ME 61l•·!S41 Business Of/lee 6.,1-SJU News 631-5.iZ.l Advmising 631-6900/8840 Vicwpoim 631 ·5303 Sysccms/Wcb Adrninimuor G3 l-8839 Sport., 631·454.l F.1x G31 ·6927 Scent" 631-/4540 Ad E-Mail observer@Jarwi11.tc.nd.edt1 Saint M:iry\ 6.11-,13::!4 Ne-.vs E..,l\,foil ob<;erver.obs11ews. l@nd.edu Photo G31-87G7 Viewpoint E-Mail observer.virwpoinr. l@nd.edu 


~fr~i'."..~ .,, ~..,,, f":t':s:~­
, .....,.,~.-<¥ •.,.,~>4'}• 

¦ DIGGING DEEPER 
McDonald's, Mickey Mouse and Quiet Desperation 
t\t least one good thing may come out of the war in Kosovo. The Serbs are t<:aring down tlwir McDonald's restau­rants to show nasty Americans how much they despise us and to tell us exar,tly what we can do with our blasted Big Macs. I say this is good not because I have anything agajnst the McDonald's corporation as such; Ijust find this an interesting comnrnntary on American culture. 
Aaron Kheriaty 

I've always wondered why Americans -with all the lip-service we pay to diversity and multiculturalism -will usually opt for the old familiar Chicken McNuggets over, say, trying a new eth­nic cuisine at a local family-owned oper­ation. Most of us will answer that Mickey D's is cheap, and we like always knowing exactly what we're gonna get. (That's right. it's so cheap that one needs to buy three hamburgers to get a decent meal, and it's so predictably the same every time that you always know the food is going to be lousy. l 
l-lowevcr, this column is not a diatribe against ba.d fast-food or a lament about the lack of any spirit of adventure or originality in the dining habits of Anrnricans. The Serbians' opinion of McDonald's does lead into the topic of American culture as a whole. 
Last Thursday at Notre Dame, Josef Zycinski, Archbishop of Lublin, Puland, delivered a lecture on thr. new encyclical "Faith and Reason." In his lecture, the archbishop commented upon a number of cultural trends in the United States, providing valuable insights into American culture from the standpoint of' a European. 
He cited an American author who saw Mickey Mouse as the quintessential icon of American culture. Apparently, Disney's rodent encapsulates the hopes and dreams, the noble aspirations and profound insights of our great nation. The archbishop noted this fact with some disappointment. The "MickAy Mousation" of America is a sign of a cul­ture too wrapped up in superficialities; it points to the fact that America seems to be abandoning many of the great cul­tural and intellectual traditions of WestArn Civilization. (Speaking of Mickev Mouse, I am reminded of the comm.ent often given by visitors to the Notre Dame campus: "Hey. this place is just like a Catholic Disneyland.") Hmm. 
Americans identify with the mouse because we have become satisfied with 
'WEARE FASCINATED 
BY ADVANCES IN 
TECHNOLOGY, BUT WE 
RARELY ASK WHAT WE ARE 
ADVANCING TOWARD.' 
superficial, surface slogans. Our key to happiness is "kick back, relax." Our key to success is "just do it." Shallowness is all the rage, when one can sum up the wisdom of one's-outlook on life with a bumper sticker that simply sqys: "Lounge." 
We are satiated with flashy advertis­ing labels, 30-second movie trailers, video games, MTV, cheap beer and hooking-up at college parties. We are plugged in and surrounded by noise as we bop to our walkman's and surf the 'net: Hashing phantasms pour into our senses from screens that never seem to be turned off. We are fascinated by 
• 

~ Cl 

advances in technology, but we rarely ask what we are advancing toward. Everything is becoming faster, bigger, more efticient; but for what'! We hear about the latest computer widget that can fit 10 Encyclopedia Britannicas on it. and we somehow think we have become smarter. I mean, when was the last timn you read the Britannica? (And even if you had, this knowledge would not necessarily make you wise.) 
Behind the superficial facade, accord­ing to America's own Thoreau, most of us "lead lives of quiet desperation." Underneath our satisfied surface is an interior life which longs for real friend­ship, for purpose, for meaning and for noble ideals worth living and dying for. 
How to recover? Unplug. Tune out. Call a friend. Write that letter. Read a book. Go to the Grotto. 
Above all, if we are to recover l'rorn our status as "ants marching" we nend to cultiYate a genuine sense of wonder, an awe about ourselves and about the world. We need that r.hildlike ability t.o 
see infinity in a grain of'sand. 
Since it snnms that I have once again naively tacklnd the thorny subject of tlw meaning ol' life, in closing, I will rnsist the graduating-senior urge to wax nos­talgic about my t;me at college. I would, however, like to thank L110s1) profossors who taught me how to stand on the shoulders of giants (though I am still try­ing to climb up), and to thank the friends who taught me more than any textbook nver could. It's benn one heck of an educational experience. God bless you, and God bless Notrn Dame. 
Aaron Kherialy is a senior who hopes to euentually emerge from Plato's cai,e and see infinity in a grain ofsand. (( you haue any advice. please e-mail him al aaron.d.kheriaty. l@ncl.edu. lie also loves his jiance, Jennifer. and can ·1 wait lo gel married. 
The views e:rpressed in this column are those ofthe aulhor and not neces­sarily those of The Obser/!er. 

¦ 000!\lfSBlHW GARRY TRUDEAU 1,(//iU, IT!f ~A tuHl,Ui, 

A? I R&CAU., rTl<IAS "ANll!FYal 
/JiffliHWI "14~UV/NG 

PRC77Y ~NGIN77-le 
ACTNOl,(l,~F-OF ca.Jl<'St3, 
NIJAI< 7H£ COt.i,,ff66, IT~N­

HUMAN/Tl~ PJJJ<llQJ­
R6Y~m. GCHo:::¥6 
JOYIWA MOll&9 RePtJTA!lON 

LARtYIN eNGtl!iH l/7: 
Y{J(J'U 813#-OfANee. 
FOP!. A~ICt;XC£'/.IJW{:b.., 

~~-/ 
4-14 


¦ 0.UOTE OF rm: DAV 
,Many are called. But 
few are called back.' -Sister Mary Tricky 

VIEWPOINT 
Monday, April 19, 1999 --------------------OBSERVER ---------------------------page 11 
l:OIT'

¦ 
Students Respond to Feminist, Pro-Choice Letter 
Amorosa's 
Amorosa Fails to Address Logic Off Respect in Abortion Discourse 
When I read Ms. J\morosa·s l(!l­bn against abortio11, n11tl11111asia
the Mark 

trr "Womrm !lave Divine) Hight to and tlw dnath IJl'lrnlty. Orw m11st Choosn"(Viewpoint, i\pril 15, also ad affirmalivnly l'or pPrsonall!Prl'n I ly, ,Judy i\ 111orosa I99<J), I was offondnd that shn charity and gov1•rnnwnt poliri<'s Wl'O(I' lllat. "a lrnrwh or nwn 
statrd that I have "no part in tlrn that l'<\CognizP !he humanity of'
whn havP pn•sumahly 111'vl'r creation and bearing of human tlw poor. Orw must rn1:ogniz<' tlw
had st•x in thPir liv1:s arn t1dli11g 
life" beyond "ejaculation in thn inliniW valun ol' 1m1·h human Iii'(\
young w11111Pll wlial Llwy ran 
right place at the right time." and work to irworporatn thatand rn111w1 du with thnir own Ms. Amorosa's uso of objerLif1-bnlinl' in tlrn ru11danH•11lal building
f'l'mnl1• hodil's" (Vil'wpoint. 
cation in reference to men might blocks or our lwallh rar<' systPlll.
Mardi 24J. 
soem to be simply nwan and Onf' must also dl'nrnnd rnsprwt
Si1H'1• I 11111 taki11g 11 class 011 
spiteful; however, I found it usn­!'or tho dignity ol' ,iach h11man lirn,
tlu• Civil \'Var. lH•r arg11111r>11 t 
rul because it brought 1'1Hllings or evnn t.110sP individuals who haw
l'Pllli111h·d 11\1' of u 1·11mmon 
11ng1T and frustration that, as a no rnspnd for that lil'P.
argum1•nl. 11mdP in l.lw anld)('l­male in society. l rarnly It is our dutv, Ms. 1\morosa. as
111111 Soulh. Many IH•lir\v1•rl lhal 
encounter. peopln who l'PC'ogniw tlwrn111-slavl'lwldPrs in tlw North While I praisn Ms. J\mornsa for dPstructivnrwss of' 01Jjp1·tif'yinglrnd no riglll to disniss tlw raising my r:onsciousrwss about lives, to mak1\ that vision a rnalilVf'ul111•p ol'slav1·ry. Sla,11ry. tlwy the objectification of' wonrnn, I through om laws and l.hrough ·
aq.(111'11. was ll Soutlwrn iss•tn, 
take issue with her for not apply­our actions.
urnl tlw North had no right Lo ing the vahre of' rnspnrl for the i\borlion, nuthanasia and tlwi111p11s1• its morality. 
individual consistonily in hnr arti­dnath penalty do 11ot rnc:ogniznNow Ms. !\morosa writN; cle. Yos, the special role that that wonwn and nrnn am divirwlyagni11 t;\pril 1:i). This titn<' slw womnn play in the miraclo of cre­crnatc\d l.wings. Thnsn socintal illsarg"lrPs Ihat IH•1·a 11s1• nvPry ation demands respect and an) llrn products of a soriPty that11111llwr has tlw physical p11w1ff amazemnnt. llowever, this spe­choosns to obj1!ctily wonwn as SPXlo "rip lhnr rhild! oul with a cial role. exemplified by the objncts or "nwrn rPcnptarlP!sicls"
hang1•r.... lngaliznd pro-choic1! 
Mother of God's affirmalivn co­and the unborn rhild as nrnr<'lytsiLI llll'rnly rnclilic•s llw rPality operation in God's plan for our 'innocnnt' littln l'ntusPs."
ora \\'OllWli's J)O\\'f'r lo . 
salvation, demands not only a Ms. Amorosa, you havn givPn
,·IHHISI'." 
respect f'or women but for all me a tastn of thn pain or ohjnrtili­I doubt, though. that slw human life. cation. I only ask that you do notwoL1]d lw willing lo nxlnnd hnr The miracle of life dons not soothe your pain by according tlwlogk lo thosn in a good f)Osition demand a pro-choice 1,tance as lifo of '"innocnnt' little fntusns" a
Lo rapc-, n111rdc-r or !'.ommit 
Ms. Amorosa suggests. Instead, status less dnsnrving of' our
g1•11rH·id<• -or to opprl'ss 
respecting tho dignity of life respnct and protnction. lnstrnrd. Iwonwn with a "patriarchal nrl­demands a pro-liffl stance that ask that you usn tlw powPrf'ulLur,• and rPligious orclc•r," f'or goes much further than the con­voicn that (;od has grantncl you to
Lhn l nmUc• r. 
temporary social and political point out objectilirntion in all understanding of' tlrn term. To places it occurs.
David Freddoso truly recognize the miracle that is Mark Leen

St:nio1 lil'e and to rncognize our special Senior
l lff-Cllnpu.1 rol8s, both male and female, in Stanford ILdl
April 1'i, 1'J'J<J that miracle, one must not nrnrnly April l'i, l'J')') 
Structure and Content ofAmorosa sArgument Bunk 
I am writing in n1sp()nsn Lo .Judy birth lo suit her own feeble purposes. says, to women's power over life .-\mornsa's IPlWr lo Uw <!ditor 1•11tiLlnd Furtlrnr, it is apparent that shn has because I have as much as she does. "\\'()nwn llav(' Divin<' Hight to littln to no undPrstanding of sex and l no more destroy the child that I ( :1t110SI'." tlrn crnation or life. She contradicts help create in my future wife's womb 
Normally I would not fonl tho ntwd lwrsnlf' throughout thn remainder of than l can take credit for fully creat­
t.o rr•spon<i lo such IPttrn·s, as l lwlinve hnr argumnnt. ing it. that Pveryonn has tlwir own opinion First. slrn tries to lift women above If she truly understood what the and art! rightfully ('fl[illed to it; nwn or dngradn men to below creation of life means, Amorosa whl'tlwr tlwy agn•n with mn or 1101 is women. (Note: I am not presenting a would not be able to d8stroy her own moot in lhat r11spnct. But when 01w chauvinistic view that men SHOULD child. She speaks of an intense bond makns as many asininn and cont.ra­Im above women or anything as fool­that women will hold with a child dirlory statmnnnls as Arnorosa has, I ish as that; as I said, I bnlieve they inside them; she calls letting it live cannot hdp but f'poJ Orn 111wd to am nqual.) the ultimate gift, but sho has no rPspond. I!er contention is ridiculous. She understanding of that ultimate gift. 
h·nm marling lwr lt~tlt!r. il is appar-assumns, /\GAIN, that ALL men have Amorosa makes this plain in her 1'11( !hat slw has no cluP or what in little or no rogard for their children. closing paragraph. All of the pro-lif­t.lw nanrn of' God slw is spl'aking. Slw Them is only this il'!.!onse bond ers should help suffering people who lwgins by arguing that "nH'll havn no lrntwenn mother and child. From are "real," she says. They are "real" part in 1111' cn•alion of' lif'n otlwr than wlwrn does this estranged idea people who havn suffered. Am I to a rightly-timml njanrlation." and says come? It is from this relationship understand that womnn have a bond 1.hal this is almost nwaningloss! Is slw untwenn mothor and child that hor that prncludcs everything elso in thn a warn of' what shn is trying lo arguc'1 contradiction st<'ms; lwr lack ol' world with a person who is not Without that 11rnanin!{ll~ss act, shn, in understanding of' her own words "real?" This is highly contradictory. this highly com111rllliliPd world. is bncomns boldlv obvious. She is cor­It shows that slrn doos nol rnally GET nothing but a worthlnss contai1wr; in rect in stating ·that thorn is definitely what happnns during sexual inter­l'art. I'd say that slin vvould lhn11 be lit an intensn bond between mother and course between a couple. If you can­for Uw rd'11s1' lwap. child -tlH' bond between father and not s00 it. tlwn it doosn't matter, is 
Tlw roles of' lhn snxes am equal in child !wing irrelevant in this part of that it? The child in a womb appears child lwaring. Whiln 111011 may not my rt.isponse. as nothing more than a bulge in thH lrnv1• (11 d1•al with Llw physical slril'P Control plays a large role in lwr abdomon. so it's simply a mattnr of that wo1111H1 must umll:rgo (and I casn against lifo, Women have control terminating its existence; like pop­highly nmpnthizn wilh wonwn in ovnr lifo. Yes, tlrny can help crrato it, ping an annoying pimple that crops that). if' a woman has a loving mall' a natural and beaulif'ul act, but up from time to time. husband, lw will lrnar it nmotional!v women r:an destrov it:? Hnw? I wasn't HcrNtd your words, .Judy. Think with lmr. /\llnr this original, conl'us;1d aware that they had this power. Sure, about what. you aro saying. I hope l"(!lll1trk, slw rnakl'S an asinine statu­a machine inserted into that utorus you do not have children until you mcn t about absnnlm\ and ahusivn ran destroy it; a coat hanger will do understand this. I hopn that for f'atlwrs. What tho hnck dons that have an equally dnstructivo job. But she TIIFIH sake. Until you do, you arc lo do with hnr argunwnl'! llccausn a says that a woman has the power to not lit to take part in your divine cre­small pPrcrrntagp of 111nn arr~ idiots choosn to abdirnt<' lwr ability to hring ative role. Undr-rstand your power. who do nol unclnrsland thn pownr lifo into the world. llow? I was not but do not glorify yourself. thny wic~ld, we all am to lw put down awarn that one could will a prngnan­as similar'1 Tho wholn argumnni., cy away. Tlw sirnpln l'acl is, women Ryan Moodie f'rom strurlurP lo contt)llt, is bunk. DO NOT have that power. It was NOT Freshman Slw trins to ovcq.{1\neralizc and grantr)d to them. Sr. Edward's Hall dosanctify Llw rolr! oJ' men in child-I am not hold hostage, as J\morosa April 16, 1 999 
8 
I 
, 
" 
I) 

' 
• 

0
t) 
• 
I 
0 




page 12---------------------------------------------Monday,April 19, 1999 
'Ed' receives low ratings 
His brother, played by cam bocause thev are in love. Smell dictablfl, unoriginal, unfunny and basi­Woody Harrelson, (Wen that fresh air? All .is WPII for our friend cally just stupid. J)irector Hon lloward.
nEDtv" 

uses th<• frne airtim<' to Ed, again. who can usually b('. countPcl up()ll to 
Director: Ron Howard Starring: Matthew McConaughey, Jenna Effman, Ellen DeGeneres, Woody Harrelson and Dennig Hopper 
(Out of five shamrocks) 
By JOE LARSON Scene Movie Cri,ic 
Boo. Hiss. Whal a bad movir. 
"EDtv" stars Matthew \1cConaughey as Ed, a normal guy who gflts picked from millions of people to have his life turned into a live television show. 
At first, the tact­1es s goofhall Ed enjoys his new show; he becomes an overnight celebrity across the nation. Everyone benefits from Ed's jump into super­stardom. His boss gives him a new parking spot at the video store, and everyone is really excited to see him and the camera crew walking through the streets. 
"Never Been Kissed" 
Director: Raja Gosnell Starring:Drew Barrymore, Molly Shannon, David Arquette, Michael Vartan and John Reilly 
Jli 
(Out of five shamrocks) 
By CASEY McCLUSKEY 
Scene Movie Critic 
Not many people ever get the 
opportunity to go back and experi­1rnce high school all over again. Not many people want this opporfunlty, but Josie Cellar, played by Drew Rarrymon•, jumps at the chance in 
"Never Been Kissed." 
Josie has always been an ·over­achlrivcr who believes shr is forever exiled lo be a nerd. At 25. she is the youugest copy editor ever to work at the Chicago Sun Times and thinks sho has reconciled herself with her nerd role. When she is givPn her first 
undcrc()V('r assignment, Josie must return to high school and become part ol' the "cool" group. Having a fow more years of experience under her h0,lt now, Josic is rradv to rrturn to high school, shed her old "Josie Grossic" persona and join the cool group. 
The first day of high school for Josie is f'ull of the same embarrassing moments that she experienced throughout her first go-around. Josie learns that she really has not recon­
ciled hPrsPlf with hPr "Josie Grossi(!" image. Her few moro years of experi­enc:e have not helped her bncome any 
seats 
Grab 'n· Go ladies 
are on people for 
taking a bagel 
and a sandwich 
at the same time. 
The sad thing ­
this is the most 
exciting part of 
the movie. 
Anyway, Ed's brother is pretty upset; he knows about the kiss because he watched it on live
Photo courtesy of Universal Pictures 
Matthew McConaughey's love interest in TV of course. Ed "EdTV" is Jenna Elfrnan. and Shari don't 

Drew's never been cooler 
inside. He is going to be her "in" with the cool group. 
With the help of Rob. Josie makes it in and begins to experience life on the other side. She is invited to the coo!(JSt parties and hangs out at the 

Photo courtesy al 20th Century Fox 
Drew Barrymore reads a paper as her classmates look on in "Never Been Kissed." 
· Shari and convince her that he's sorry. Ed, being the good younger brother he is, goes over to Shari's house and ends up kissing hor on live-; TV, with everyone watching. This may sound really interesting and put an audience on the edge of its scats, but those butts would be on their like the 

advertise his new gym. 
Everything is working out great, but then comes the connict. 
Ed and the camera crew catch his brother cheat on his girlfrirnd Shari, played by Jenna Elfmun, all on live TV. Ed's brothrr knows he's in trouble because the show is live, and he k11ov1s his girlfriPnd is going LO find out. So he tells old Fd to go Lalk to 
more  cool, and Josie  
does  not  have  anv  
more  insights  on  how  

to cross over the boundary to the cool group. Josie's older brother, Rob, played by David Arquette, comes to the rescue and enrolls into high school as well. Rob was always part of the in­crowd and wants to help Josic become cool. lie knows she just needs one cool person to believe she is cool, and she will be on the 

Wait! With all these things happen­ing on live TV, Ed gets himself a huge following and astronomical ratings. Ed is a bona fido superstar. People all over the world just can't stop wondering about what will hap­pen to this normal guy, Ed. Will his n<w, love last? Is slie rven right for him? Will he make up with his brother'? Will this movie ever end? 
Well, wilh all this attention going to her new boyfriend. Shari fells a little overshad­owed. Sh() doesn't want to live her lifo on TV, and she real­
Woody Harrelson (left) and Matthew McConaughey star as 
izes this ,vhole live 
brothers in Ron Howard's comedy "EdTV." 
TV show is just the public exploitation of her poor, unas­suming boyfriend. So, because Shari voicrs this opinion, people really don't want her in Ed's life anymore. They begin making fun of her on other TV shows and in the newspapers. Because Shari doesn't have any self-confidence, she leaves Ed. Poor Ed. Now Ed is free to live the life of the superstar. 
What happens from here is extreme­ly predictable. 
Ed experiences the limelight fur awhile. then decides that being a superstar isn't all it's cracked up to be. He just wants to go back to his old life as a video store clerk and be with Shari. How's that going to work out'? 
"EDtv" is a bad movie. It's pre­

coolest lunch tables. Most importantly, the coolest guy in school asks her to prom. The problem with this whole thing is that, in the eyes of her boss, none of this can be made into a new story that is worthy of print. He wants to nail the teacher who has been helping Josic throughout tlrn 
Photo courtesy of 20th Century Fox 

semester, 
Michael Vartan stars as Drew Barrymore's teacher in "Never Been 
played by 
Kissed."

Michael Varian, for becoming too close to a student. There is an obvious attraction between the two, and her boss wants to exploit it. 
Prom night is going to settle every­thing. Will Josie be nominated prom queen? What will happen bdwenn Josie and her teacher? Will Josie dis­cover who her real friends are? Will she be able to rind h!'r story'? 
Granting that this movie is not a work of cinematic genius. it was real­ly enjoyable, There W(H(l somr prob­lems with it. The sterrotypical por­trayal of the "cool group" was too over-the-top. Kids are mean, but not to the drgrre to which this movie por­trays them. It was not even funny at parts because it was so unrealistic. There will always be a group of "cool" kids that believe they are bet­ter than every one else, but they du not run tho school in the same way these kids do. This movie also has the "Saved by the Bell" syndrome .in that then! only seems to be two teachers make at least interesting, Plli.Prtai11i11g movies, fails miserably h<'rP. It's anrnz­ing h() made this 11101iP in the l'irsl place. It takes shots at tnlcvision and 
Photo courtesy of Universal Pictures 

tho media bocause of their relentless exploitation or people -stars and reg­ular prople alikr. It also wants to tell us how twisted the American public is by showing these fans as crazed lunatics waiting on the edge of their seats for the next time Ed scratches himself. "EDtv" tries to m ak11 Americans see thoir folly in following too closely and caring too much about show business and the lives of celPbri­ties. It wants the audience Lo see that only the people close to them matter and that they really don't want to bP stars. 
In the end, all "EDtv" really teaches its audience is to pay more attention to the movies they dccidn to sne. 
in tho (:ntirn scho()I. 
/\t timf's, Dre:½ H,uTy1nori,'-, 1wrl'or­mancn was VPl'Y Pnjoyalih• and IH'li('v­a b I e, but u t otlw r Li 111 "s it was L() o annoying. It socrns that 110 01H' could ovPr be as big a losl'r as .l()siP. 
· Barrymore is most enjoyable wlrnn sho's jusL !ming cool, rather than playing tho nnrd trying to b(~ cool. Michael Vartt!n is groat as tl111 cool English toaclwr that nvnryo11t' wants. The relaUonship lrn had with .Josi(• was very lrnlicwablc, and in tltf' ('.llll, the nntirn audioncn wants l.lw tw() of' them Lo get togc:thc:r. 01H: ()1· the greatest pcrl'ormancns is giV<'l1 by David Arquette, Josin's olclnr brothnr, who brings LO life a guy who llC'V(\I' really livnd past his high school grad­uation. "Never Been Kissed" will nPver bP nominated for an Academy Award, but it b still enjoyable to watch. Save a couple of' dollars, though, and wait f'or it to comn out on video. 
c.~_\.·.,
C,J~, 


Mom!ay, April 19, 1999-----------------------------------------------page 13
OB~iRVER 
¦ VIDEO PICK OF THE WEEK ¦ CHART-TOPPERS 
l~y V. VAN BUREN GILES one who does not look at him right, .'1n•11~ Mnvil' ( :riric with his mind . Tlw film boasts a stcill,u· cast. whllre VVPlrn11w lo "!)ark City," a place that everyone shines. Newconrnr Hul'us 
O·tif(i1c,e 


at first glan<·.1\ n•mincls tlw viewnr of Sewtill ("Carrington") plays llrn hnrn, Tim Burton's Cotham City f'rom the .John Murdoch, a11 averag<' guy who Movie Title Gross Sales first lwo "Ualman" movies. It is a wakes up in someone Pisc's shoes and magical, mysl.irai arna whern tlrn sun wonders if' his entire lil'e has been a 
1. Life $ 20.?million
11flv1n· s1:ums lo shin<: and the good liP. The luscious .lcnnif'nr Conncdly pP11pl1• of' tlw dl.y am 011tn11mbnrnd by !"Labyrinth" and "lligher Lnarning") 2. The Matrix $ 18.1 million all tl11• bad onPs. plays John's supposed wife who tries 
3. Never Been Kissed $ 8.7 million
"!lark City" is not just a town with­to rail back in love with the man who out sunlight, and it's cPrtainly not one slrn bnlil~ves to he her husband. 4 Analyze This $ 4.0 million ol' thosP ac:tion films based 011 Mollrnr William llurl ("The Big Chill" and 
5. 10 Things I Hate
Natun•'s dnstrurtivc> nli•mnnls likn lor­"Childrnn of A Lesser God") portrays n adoes. t\ arth q u a kn s or (; o cl -sen l police inspect()r Frank Bumstead, who About You $ 3.7 million floods. IL is a film about what makes is clriv<rn to uncover the secrets that 
6. The Out-of-Towners $ 3.2 million 
humans so spcidal; what makes thnm the Strangers hold ovfH the city. 
human. It is th11 story of' John Kinl'er Sutherland ("Young Guns," 7. Go $ 3.0 million M11rclorh, one· of Llw only 1wrso11s who "Flatlincrs" and "A Few Good Men") is 8. Forces of Nature $ 2.6 million is not a hrainwaslwd inhabitant. Dr. Danial Schreber, the disfigured 
9. Shakespeare in Love $ 1.9 million
As ii turns out. tlrn citv is controlled psychiatrist who sells out his own by a IH'oplP from anotl1nr world who p!wpln and aids the Strangnrs in their 10. Cookie's Fortune $ 1.0 million wa11l dl'S!H'ral1-ly lo I)(' human. Thny rns1mrch. a"" call Pd the Ian Hichardson is "Stra11g1·rs," and the king Stranger 
llwy rnnduc'.l l'XIJl)l'­as Mr. Book, and Source: Associated Press im1•nts by mis­togethor with matrliing p1iopln's another Stranger llll'lllOl'iBs wilh oth­known as \fr. Prs·. Hand, represents Thi• StrangPrs the chief adver­also havl' an al'ul1• saries of John. pow1•r known as The rnal wonders 

Movie Title
tuning. Tlw pownr and awe-inspiring lo 111111\ P11<tlil1~s tlw aspncts of' "Dark -;tra11g!'l's to lilPral­City" are thn city 1. There's Something About 
Maryly slop lilllP in thP ilsell' and the 
2. The Waterboy
1·ity, l'ausing l'V«'ry-StrangPrs who con­11111• lo r,111 asi<'PP trol it. Tim nightly 3. Ronin i11 -; I a II IIv . \V hiI1i i11 transf'ormalion of 
Bulworth
lhc-ir s1;h!'o11dous the city is some of 4. stall', th<' pnoµIP the most exciting 5. Pleasantville IJ<'r111111• gui1wa pigs footage in the l'ilm. 
6. What Dreams May Come 
al tlH• hands or ilw The Strangors StrangPrs. who 11sp themsPlvns am also 7. The Truman Show i11j1•1·1io11s with big, visually marvelous. 
8. Snake Eyes 
...
sharp 111iPd!Ps into They rnmind view­
th1• l'on•h1•ad to nrs of' how scary 9. Antz 1·hangP thPir pPr­deathly pale zorn·­10. 
Rush Hour 
s1111alil iPs and bies with British lifl'."iyll'S. accents garbed in Yf'l. tlw Slrnngl'rs black loather ov~ir­h,1v1· a prohlnm coats and fodoras 
Source: Billboard Online
wh1•11 somflun1• that l'luat i11 tlrn air wakl's up during and brandishing 
I. hI' I' X (I 1• I' iIll I' II lS virgin daggers can and r11i11s Lh!dr be. "111i11dswapping." Though one might 
­1':!1l!'I' .John Murd1wh bo confusnd in llw 
1ng
who doPs l'Xactlv final sequences of this. Ill' wakPs ui> tho film. it lrncomns i>Pl'1,r.-hi.., Iii'<' is r11111pltPly allt>r('d, cl1•ar that. tl1nr1• is a 111Plhod lo dime­aud along with 1111· l'i\1'.llllc•ctions ol' his Lor /\lex l'royas· madness. Whilf\ l>aul 
oon
old lil't•, ill' has also lml'll hanclnd llw Vnrhonv1'11 took a dif'foni11t tactic in id1·11tity of' a prosliluln killl'r and pub­his sri11111'.I' f'iction/action movin. "Total lic r•11P111V 1111111lwr one•. fin's now al l!f'rall." starring Arnold 
lC@ ,Q flh,~1~l,~~ 1r~~1~:r 't''~i~\ thP 1111•n:y 111' Strang1·rs and humans Srlnvarz<~1111ggPr, the tw11 hav1! thn as IH• Lric•s to f'i11cl 11ul who he! was samt: basic plol. and lrnth sport a lll'l'ort· his mind was rlla11g1•d. wPak lov1i story. Both inclurlH gnnius April 2 3: 
Murdorh anp1i1·f'~ th1• powPr "to action scPnes which mak(• up for the 1t111n" whil'l1 a ids llim ill his qunst. lirnsonw attempts at roma.11c11. Anywhere But Here, starring Susan Sarandon and Natalie Portman This ,illo1vs hi111 to rnmai11 awake "!lark C:Hv" is \.\'Orth thn rnnlal for 
wllilci lhP or lh1i town is a lc,ok Pushing Tin, starring John Cusack, Billy Bob Thornton and Cate Blanchett
rPsl in its f'rnsh at tho characteristics 1·0111at11s1• t1·1u1C<', as well as to lrn able that make humans who they aro and Lost and Found, starring David Spade and Sophie Marceau 
111 111ov1• things, surh as tlw groull(I. for a de1!p look at the workings of llw lhP arrhitf'1·t11rP of tlw city and any-human soul. Election, starring Reese Witherspoon and Matthew Broderick 
Got Scene? 
Wait, that doesn't make sense. April 30: 
Idle Hands, starring Vivica A. Fox and Seth Green
Scene@nd.edu 




I 
I 
I page 14 
Notre Dame NFL Draft Picks By Round 
Luke Petitgout 1, pick 19 
Giants 

Jerry Wisne 5, pick 10 
Bears 

Mike Rosenthal 5, pick 16 
Giants 


5, pick 3
Malcolm Johnson 
Steelers 

Hunter Smith 7, pick 4 
Colts 

Autry Denson 7, pick 27 
.. 
Buccaneers 

Kory Minor 7, pick 28 
49ers 

Ttie Observer/Scott Hardy 
Draft continued from page 24  lhought I was going to go on the first da\'." Instead. Denson had to wait until the 27th pick in the sev­enth round to be selected by the  i\io. I punter by Kiper and Pro Football Weekly and was expected to be the first punter laken in the draft. Instead, Josh Bidwell from  The Observer/Kevin Dalum Malcolm Johnson was one of two wide recievers taken in the draft by the Pittsburgh Steelers.  
ty opposition. llis biggest assPt  Buccaneers.  Oregon  State  was  selected  to free agency ­ Yancy Thigpen  know,"  Im  said.  "I  am  just  
is his versatility."  Drnson said he is not worried  ahead of Smith in the fourth  and  Charles Johnson  - so  happy to got picked up and tlrn  
Joining  Petitgout  on  the  about his low pick however and  round by the Green Bay Packers  Johnson should have  a chance  chance to play with a  team like  
Giants tlrnm  \.\'ill  be Rosenthal,  is looking forward to the tough  -a team that bad shown inter­ to contributo right away.  Sad Francisco."  
selectPd in the fifth round. RosPnthal said he is excited to  competition of lighting for a ros­ter spot and a chance to move  est in Smith. Smith, however, said he was  "I think I am and play for a  fortunate to go coach like Bill  The Irish players know that they are in for a tougher ganrn  
start  his  pro  career  with  into the starting line-up.  not concerned with where he  Cowher who gives guys like me  next year.  
Pctitgout.  "It wouldn't be right if it were  was drafted or who was drafted  an opportunity to play." he said.  "The NFL is a totally dil'fon,nt  
"I  was definitely happy to be  just given  to  me,"  he  said.  ahead of him.  "I think l can  be  one of those  ball game," Minor said. "It's a  
selected to play on  the  same  "Adversity has always been in  "I wasn't really surprised by  . guys. I think I can bring a physi­ lot faster,  a  lot quicker. I just  
team as Luke," he said. "lie is a  mv  corner, and I have alwavs  where I went because I was  cal presence to the Steelers.  hopP that I can  make it to that  
good friend of mine."  us.ed it as a positive for me."  ·  more happy just to be drafted,"  They can play me in the slot,  level."  
Wisne was also chosen in the  Considering his physical skills  he said.  and I feel I will be able to over­ Nevertheless, the Notre Dame  
fifth  round  by  the  Chicago  and talents, Denson could not  The chance to play for the  power the smaller defensive  experience has well prPparcd  
Bears. lie will be the fifth Irish  have been selected bv a  better  young Indianapolis Colts  - a  backs in the 1\JFL. I feel I can  the draftPes !'or tho rigors alrnad  
player on the Bears roster. join­ team.  Denson is co.nsidered  team with  a  bright future in  help lead this team to  an AFC  of them, Johnson said.  
ing Tom Carter, Andy Heck,  small by NFL standards, but the  Peyton Manning and 1999 l\o. 1  crown and ultimately a  Super  "l think tlrn shear amount of'  
Paul  Grasmanis  and  Jim  Bucs  have  succeeded  with  draft pick Edgerrin James  - Bowl championship."  big games prnpared  us well,"  
Flanigan.  Warrick Dunn - another small  has Smith excited.  Minor, like Johnson, found  Johnson said. "Every game is  
The  late-round  choice  of  back. Denson will also get to  "I think that the Colts are a  himself drafted by one of the  like the opponents bowl gamP.  
Denson was perhaps the biggest  return  to  his home state of  team on the rise, and I am very  NFL's better teams. The San  By not being in  a  confernncn,  
surprise for Irish fans. Aftm set­ Florida.  proud to be  a  part of it," he  Francisco 49ers called his name  we get to play nationwide, simi­ 
ting the record for career rush­ "It's like a double bonus,"  said.  in the seventh round.  lar lo what happens in the NFL.  
ing yards, he  was  selected by  Denson said. "I get to go home,  Johnson,  a  fifth-year senior  Minor said he was very happy  Plus we  l•1arn to composo our­ 
the Tampa Bay Buccaneers in  and l get the opportunity to play  wide receiver from Washington,  to be drafted by a top organiza­ selves likn gentlemen. I really  
the seventh round.  the game that l love."  D.C.,  was  drafted  by  the  tion.  learned how to be  a  man and  
"People  were  saying any­ Smith also slipped further  Pittsburgh  Steelers.  The  "You  never  know with the  how to carry myself from  my  
where from late first to third at  down the draft board than most  Steelers have lost two wide  draft -you could go here, you  parents  and  the  people  I  
the worst," Denson said. "l  expected. Ile has been rated the  receivers in the past two years  could  go  there.  You  never  encountered at Notre Oamn."  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid.
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
ILOST & FOUND I 
Lost: 100 CDs that were in a black CaseLogic carrying case. Lost in LaFortune the night of 2/26/99. Monetary reward being offered if found. No questions asked. Please call Brian at 4·1126 w/ any info. 
Large, double pocket LL Bean backpack wl Pietasters patch. $50 cash reward if returned w/contents. No questions asked. call 634-1061 
Lost Glasses: black, metal. oval. Safilo frames; clip on sunglasses, black case. If found call Paul @ 4·4765 
I KNOW YOU'RE OUT THERE! My blue l.L. Bean backpack was losVstolen in parking lot bit Lyons & Morrissey. Please call 4-2900 to return it; REWARD based on what's still in it. Thank you' 
WANTED 
AMERICAN FL YER trains -top dollar paid, call Dave at 273-9015 
EARN $6K-$9K/YR EXTRA' Local Area Counselors needed. Enjoy cross-cultural experiences?Support families and int'I nannies.Contact Kristen 88B· 222-2966 knelson@app.childcrest.com 
Two roommates needed for 4 bdrm townhouse at Lafayette Low rent. 233-3783 
FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 
STAVING IN SOUTH BEND FOR THE SUMMER??? lovely five-bedroom, single family house available for sub-lease. Abou! a mile from campus. Sate neighborhood. Clean Two window air-conditioners. Washer and dryer, stove, refrige. Call 634-0562 tor info. 
FURN. ROOM;FURN. ONE BED­ROOM APT;PRIVATE ENTRANCE.AIR, KITCHEN.LAUN­DRY ,PHONE.UTILITIES INCLUD­ED,5 MINN. CAMPUS 272-0615 
VARSITY CLUBS OF AMERICA 1 bdrm suite • sleeps 4 May 14•21 $700 or selling gradua­tion week time share. For details 1-219-875-4335. 
REDUCED FOR SUMMER!! 2 bdrm 2 bath upper level apt. @ College Park to sublet. Rent negotiable. Call Joann @ 634· 3620 
Walk to school All size homes Starting at 185/month/person MMMRENTALS@aol.com 232-2595 
IT'S NOT TOO LATE­

Tri-level, 3 bdrm house, 1.5 mi. from campus across from park with 
1.5 bath, FR with fireplace, 2-car garage. fenced back yard. A/C, stove, refrig, d/w, g/d and w/d. 
$995/mo. 683-5038 or 232-4527. 
FOR SALE 
NEW Rates Phone Cards 282 min. $20 call 258-4805 

GUITAR-Fender Electric/Acoustic, cut-away body. 1 yr old. $350 or B/0. Includes case and stand. Call Greg at 271•0138 
Beautiful brass bed.queen size.with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame.New, never used, still in plas­tic.S235 219-862-2082 
Furniture for sale:couch, chairs, entertainment center, beds Call 243-2856 

IBM 100 MHz MC 486 w/CD rom, floppy disk drive, hard drive, 500Mbytes, color monitor; wordprocessing & graphing softwares on windows 95. $350 obo. US Robotics 33K External modem, w/conneclion cables ,paid $160, asking $100. call: 277·4269, 631-5497. 
95-MINUTE PRE-PAID PHONE CARD ONLY $1 a.Send cash,cl1eck,or money order to: Terry King 4028 Woodvale Dr. South Bend, IN 46614 
HP Deskwriler 660C Macintosh Color Printer $45 273-1366 
1980 Triumph convertible $3,500 (277-2684) 
TICKETS 

I need xtra Graduation Tickets. Will pay genero~sly!' 1 Call x-1237 ask for Mike 
Have an extra graduation ticket? Call Anne x2650 
I NEED graduation tickets Please call John @271-8531 
PERSONAL 
English Classes at the South Bend English Institute. English taught as a Second Language. Located two blocks west of IUSB. 
* 9 LEVELs intensive training 
• NEW SESSION every 4 wks. *PRIVATE TUTORING avail. Phone 219-287-3622. 
LOOKING for a great part-time job next fall? The Copy Shop in Lafortune Is now accepting STU­DENT applications for '99-'00. Only a few student postilions are avail­able so apply now. 
ARE YOU AN ADOPTED WHITE FEMALE, 
INDIANA-BORN ON JULY 14? REPL V WITH VEAR AND CITY OF BIRTH TO 2776 CLARY TRACE, ROSWELL, GA 30075. 
Beth, Sorry About Mass. -Mike 
Come see UMPHREV'S McGEE get down with some sweet Michiana butt rock at 
CHEERS (on 31, just so. of Cleveland) 
TONIGHT' 
w/special guests from Milwaukee, Freshwater Collins Must be 21, 9:30 pm $4 cover 
Visit Umphrey's McGee's brand new website at 
www.umphreys.com 
THE LAST REGULAR ISSUE OF THE OBSERVER IS WEDNES· DAY, APRIL 28. 
THE COMMENCEMENT ISSUE WILL BE ON FRIDAY, MAY 14. 
Apnl 28? Hey that's my birthday .... 
I NEED graduation tickets please call me @ 271-6531 
MOVING? LET US HELPI 
1 piece to a house full. 286-7094 
Call me Budget! Honor me, I am your budget. 
Late night never seem to end but that is why I work here. 

BK-enjoy the warm Miami sun. Looks like you are already using your new power for extending vaca­tion time. 
Brandy, Aimee. Kate and Jamie, I told you I would remember your 
names. 

Forget all these sayings. I am tired and want to go home. 

Monday, April 19, 1999 

The Observer/Jeff Hsu Lamont Bryant leads an experienced defensive line that may produce a stronger pass rush in 1999 for the Irish. 
Consider a Master of Arts Degree Counsel? 
Called to 
from Bethel College! 
• 
Mental Health Counseling 

• 
Marriage and Fami1y Counseling/Therapy 

• 
Student Developmenl 


Bethel College 
Answer the Call Today! 

Graduate Studies 1001 West McKinley Avenue 
800-422-4251 

Mishawaka, IN 46545 
www.bethel-in.edu 

The Observer• SPORTS 
Football 
continued from page 24 
a role in the passing ganrn, with .Jahari lfolloway and John Owens, in particular, making some catches. Them was also an emphasis on third-and-long situations; Davie wanted to test his young offensive li1}e as well as his quarterbacks. 
Davie said Im is pleasnd with his team's spring performance and said they arti in good shape at this junction or the season. 
"If' wn kcop the attitude wn havn right now, then I think wn can get to where we need to be. It's going to takn every sec­ond -we'rn going to squneze nverything out of' them next wenk." said Davie. "A week l'rom now, spring l'ootball is over but wn'vn got a week lef't and w11'r11 going to squeeze every 011ncn out orthom." 
Notes: 

• .Junior tailback Darcy Lrwy prnvided an offensive surprise Saturday. lie played sparingly in the first scrimmage and as ol' Saturday looked to be the fourth running back behind Fislrnr, Driver and Terranco lloward. llowever, the speedy Levy, who ran the second­fastest 40-yard dash behind 
Students looking fora part-time summerjob that will give them real life experience in an enjoyable work environment, calling alumni on behalfofthe Generations Campaign. 
I REWARD: 
rRAINING, DAY/EVENING HOURS, $5.95/HR 



NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY 
Stop bythe Development Phone Center (Third Floor, Grace Hall) Tuesday, April 20 (9-1 pm) Wednesday, April 21 ( 1-4 pm) 
OutrsnoNs? Gtv£ us A CALL: STE:VE CAMILLERI 63 I -7 2 4 / HAP DURKIN 63 / -7938 


The Observer/Kevin Dalum 

Tony Driver has successfully made the transition back to tailback and is battling Tony Fisher and Darcy Levy for the starting job. 
cornerback Brock Williams in the off-season. had several nice runs. 
• Defensively, Shane Walton showed he will have a tough decision lo rnakn in the fall. Walton, the leading scorer on tho Irish soccer team as a freshman, played with the first team derensn Saturday. With exceptional spnnd and an aggressive nature, he has caught the attention of' coaches and teammates. 
·"lle's got,,the_ respc'.'.t <'..1' h(s teammates, said Davie. Ile s not bashful and hn'll come up tlrnrn and hit you. lle's taking advantage of his opportunities and he's made some posilivP impressions with us." 
• 
On the first play of tlrn day, ddensive end Jason Ching injured his thumb. Offensive tackle Casey Hobin suffnred an ankle injury. 

• 
Cornerbacks senior Lee Lafayette (sprai1rnd ankle) and junior Brock Williams (hip nex­or), who returned to the team last week after breaking an undisclosed team ruin, also missed Saturday's practice. 

•Offensive 
guard Mike Gandy did not play. Senior Matt Brennan replaced Gandy on the first team offensive line unit. 



• Sophomore Sean Mahan 

CLASS of 2001 
Want to be a Part of the best event of vour junior vear? 
Join the JPW 2000 Committee! 
APPiications are available now in the, Student Activities Office and are 
1 
due APril 21. 1999.
I1 Questions? Call Me~h:n at +2696 : 
has moved rrom dnl'ensiv<i t.ackln to of'f'nnsivc guard. Saturday, he work<>d with tlw second unit. alongside ILi. 
Scott, who  was  moved l'rom  
clcfcnsc  to  offonsP  over  tlw  
winter.  

• The scrimmage once again began with an 1imphasis on special Lnams. Senior .Jim Sanson struggled kicking l'if'ld goals, going two-for-four. not including a l'umhl1Hl snap un tlrn first attnmpt al'tnr which holckr Janrns Caputo pickt•d up the ba 11 a n d a tt. n 111 p t11 d a throw. 
Sophomorn llavid Millc•r wcmt a 1wrrt1ct thrnn-l'or-thrrn\ on his field goal attmnpts. 
• 
Davin said that this w11nk players will begin wilh scrim­maging ot' kickol'f's. This sho11lcl help determine tlw fall rnturn­nrs. 

• 
Davio also spoke ol' tlw NCAA Com mitten on Infractions which will soon inform the Irish or tlwir l'at<' following the Kimbnrly Dunbar incident. 


"It's not something I've put a whnle lot or thought into. I rPally don't sne it as much of a change," said Davie. "Until we'vt~ got thn final response back and all the nwchanics am completncl from lhP NCAA, I'm going to hold comnrnnt." 
page 16 
¦ MEN'S LACROSSE 
Dusseau paces Irish past Cadets, 15-7 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
A,snci.1rr Spnrrs Fdiror 
When tlw !\rmy rolled inlo .Moose Krausn Stadium Satmdav. Notre Dame's !across<' big-!a{un~ senior atlackman Chris lh1ssl:'au pounded llw Cadets 

'. with a career-high five goals. Duss<iau·s five goals pacP.d tlw NotrP Dam(i offpnst' whirh explod!'d !'or 15 goals on Llw dav . . ;We did a much. much better job on offense today." head roach Kevin Corrigan said. "With the exception of a few mental mistakes, this was our best 60-minute effort of the yPar." The Irish went into the game n!'eding nothing less than their best efforl against the 19th­ranked Cadets. Losers of three straight. the Irish are in danger or not qualifying l'or the NCAA tournament. Saturday's win put the team on Lim right track. earning them its first of tho three wins nPccssary to qualify. "It was an important win for us." Dusseau said. "We had to show that we knew huw to win again. We had to play like the team that almost beat the No. l team in the country (Loyola!." The key to the game for the Irish was tlrn offense. They con­trolled the ball for most of the game and made few mental errors. By getting quality shots every time down the field. the Irish put themselves in a situa­tion when\ they set the tempo. "We played well on offense today," Corrigan said. "We almost always got quality shots. We didn't sr.ttle for average shots -we were always looking for the best shot. Even when we shot quickly, we didn't shoot quickly lwcause we f'elt rushed. We shot because a great scoring chance opened up early." Dusseau·s five goals on the game paced the Irish offense which also had sophomorn Tom Glatz11l and Todd Ulrich score multiple goals with four and three, respectively. Dusseau opened the scoring for Llw Irish with a goal one minulri. 18 s11concls inlo thr. game. After being knocked to the ground in l'ront or the net by an Army defender, Dusseau held onto the ball -and his compo­sure -as he calmly flipped thr. ball over the shoulder of Cadet goalie Jeff Brooks. Glatzel followed Dusseau with a goal less than one minute later. The sophomore attack­man. who is tied with Dusseau for the team lead in goals at 23, criss-crossed with fellow sopho­more attackman David Ulrich behind the net. The !\rmv defendr,r followed Ulrich. leaving Glatml free to break around the right side ofthe CTPase and fire a shot past Brooks. Glatzel answered and Alex Fyfe Army goal on an assist by Steve Bishko. The man-up goal was the first of tliree on the afternoon for the Irish as they eonverted 60 percent of their man-up situations. on which the Irish have bncn working on hard in practicn, according-to Corrigan. "We went 0-6 against Ohio State on Tuesday in the man­up," he said. ''So it was nice to see us play well on man-up but we still need lo 'Je morn consis­tent when we have a man advantage," Army scored again with four minutes left in the first quarter on a goal by Hyan Hanrahan. Todd Ulrich pushed the Irish 
lead back to two on a great indi­vidual effort to lose his defender and boat Brooks. 
Ulrich's goal triggerod an offensive explosion for the Irish as they scored the next thrcr goals and four of tlw last five first-half goals. Gl.atzcl got two more goals while Todd and David Ulrich each got one. 
The third quartt'r belongml to Dusseau. Dusseau t.allieu his sec­ond goal of the game six minutes into thn second half' off of an assist by Hevere La Noue. 
Lee Dingman answernd to bring the Cadets within five, 9-4. 
Dusseau earned a hat-trick when he converted Ned Webster's pass into a 10-4 lead for the Irish. Dusseau·s third­quartnr domination did not end with that goal. however. He struck for the fourth time with less that one minute left in the third quarter to extend the Irish lead to seven. 
Despite his amazing day, Uusseau def1ccted all praise to his teammates. 

"I am only as good as everyone The Observer/Jeff Hsu 
Senior Chris Dusseau scored a career-high five goals Saturday in Notre Dame's 15-7 win over Army.
else on the field." he said. "The other attackman and the mid­fielders kept setting me up in good positions and I got a fe\-\ goals. The defense also played great today. They shut down the Army attack and gave us to ball so that we could do the things we needed to do on offense." 
Corrigan understands the value of his senior co-captain. 
"Persistence is the way to describe Chris' game today," he said. "He missed four lay-ups early in the game because their goalie made some gr<:at saves. But he kept at it and he got some goals. 
"He starting making spectacu­lar goals after missing some easy ones in thr. beginning. But that is the type or player Chris is, he ,viii keep up the intensity and krrnp coming after ybu," Corrigan said. 
The two teams traded early fourth quarter goals before Dusseau tossed the ball through the pipes for the fifth time. 
Stedman Oakey and Ben Savage added a late goal to answer two fourth quarter Cadet goals. With the 15-7 victory, the Irish have put themselvns back on track for a possible NCAA bid. 





The Observer/Jett Hsu 

The intense second round concluded this weekend. After the third round today, the Round of 64 will be set. 

Excellent security! 
~ain cfoun1aya11. 
-video surveillance -24 hr. access to your unit 
tWed11esday evening. 
in room 140 l_De(Bartof o. great Cor storing computers 
& electronics! 
_,.._________________________________ 
Monday, April 19, 1999 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXVIII 
Monday -Round of 64 

Ga.me times: 7 p.m., 7:45 p.m., 8:30 p.m., 9:15 p.m. 

Bookstore 
continued from page 24 
nndPd tt11• first hall' 11-1. 
Ahsolul Kurli1is SPlllPd down in tlw sncond hall'. llHtnaging to srnrn l'ivc• baskt\ts lwl'orn Malirious l'ros1il'11tion put thn game away 21-f,. 
lnsidP shooting provnd lo lw tlw deadly W«\apon, as Coln PIHl('{I llw gaml' with snvnn points and Coury addnd fivn from llw paint. llaigh, Vanhand1d and Nrmnth each addt>d l.hnw l'or tlw win. 
Malic·ious l'rosncution has advanrPd in Pa1'11 round with 1H1s1,, but cixpncls lo face so1111\ I1111 g I, co 111 pn tit ion in llw Bound of' h-t. The t<'nm has lwPn fon1sing 011 improving its 
*BrandNeW 
Main-McKinley 
SelC-Storage
707 E. McKinley Ave. Mishawaka, IN 46545 
N~tre Dame 
& 
Saint Mary•s 

256-5339 
offensive strategy in prepara­tion for closnr games. 
"It's bcen fairly smooth so l'ar, but that will probably r.hungc with the next round," 
Cole said. "We're focusing morn on gntting our offense together and not so much on what the other squads are doing. We are going to check out some teams before W!1 play again. though." 
/\t the No. 29 spot, Jumbalaya came out strong in their game till Saturday. 
Captain Nick Hurns, Ben Bcshalsko, Tim Kress, Mark Ewald and Jay Det\ngelis rnlicd on steals and fast breaks to catapult thmnsdvcs into the Hound or 64. 
Burns took the ball to Lim hoop scoring a t11am-high six baskNs. while lltiAngtdis knpt 

The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
Clan had carlv trouble on the offonsiv11, thri;wing up several 
-
off-targnt shots. 
Domination on lhc boards kept tlui team in the game until the players got their offensive play back on track. Muething led tlrn team with eight rebounds. 
Mue-Tang Clan l11d at the hair 11-:i and f'nnd1\d off Fino Finwirs of' Funk with a 21-11 final scorn. 
Byan l11d tlw No. 11) tPam to victory with s1wnn hasknts and six rebounds. 
,\II t1\ams still in llw tourna­nwnt. hit I.Im courts al Stnpan today in llw Hound ol' 64. 

Announcing 6Jte ~ftt Competitionfor 2000-2001. 
A[f first year students. sopftomores and especiaffyju11iors interested in Graduate Study /4road, don't miss the infor111ationaf meeting ,,vitft ~rofessor 
the team on the offensive com­ing up with seven rebounds. 
"Overall we playnd well as a team today," said DeAngelis. "Wn contrullr.d the boards and hit our shots." 
.Jumbalaya led 11-2 at the hall' and never looked back, ending the game with a 21-6 win. 
Jumbalaya swept past the 
opening round of tho tourna­ment without a struggle, but bad to work for its second­round win. 
"We saw some good competi­tion in our seconu-round game," said DeAngclis. "It was a little rough -the other team played well and the weather was horrible. We haven't seen anything too tough yet." 
In other Hound-of-128 action, No. 19 Mun-Tang Clan squared off' against Fine Fingers of Funk at Stepan Sunday. 
Paul Haih, Pete Hyan, Pat llealy. Brian Dierrkrnan and Tim Muething of Mun-Tang 



page 18 The Observer• SPORTS Monday, April 19, 1999 
1999 NFL DRAFT RECAP 

Arizona Rex Turner, g, Texas A&M. 3, Olandis Gary, rb, Georgia. 5, David Atkins, s, UCLA 4, Larry Parker, wr, Northwestern State. 6, Marc Megna, South Dakota State. 4, Jason Perry, 
1. David Boston. wr. Ohio State. D'Wayne Bates, wr, Northwestern. 3, Bowens, de, Western Illinois. 5, Southern Calilornia. 7, Eric King, g, lb, Richmond. 6, J.P. Machado, g, db, North Carolina State. 5, Adrian 
1. LJ Shelton, ot, Eastern Michigan. Marty Booker, wr, Northeast Darwin Brown. db, Texas Tech. 6, Richmond. Illinois. 7, Ryan Young, ot, Kansas Dingle, de, Clemson. 5, Reggie 
2, Johnny Rutledge, lb, Florida. 3, Louisiana. 4, Warrick Holdman, lb, Desmond Clark. te, Wake Forest. 6, Miami Slate. 7. J.J. Syvrud, de. Nelson, g, McNeese State. 6, Tyrone Tom Burke, de. Wisconsin. 4. Joel Texas A&M. 4, Rosevell Colvin, de. Chad Plummer, wr, Cincinnati. 7, 2, James Johnson, rb, Mississippi Jamestown. Bell, db, North Alabama. Makov,cka, rb, Nebraska. 5, Peris Purdue 5, Jerry Wisne, g, Notre Billy Miller, wr, Southern California State 2, Rob Konrad, rb. Syracuse. Oakland San Francisco Johnson, db, Miami. Ohio. 5, Yusuf Dame. 5, Khari Samuel, lb, 7, Justin Swift, te, Kansas State, 3, Grey Ruegamer, c, Arizona State. 1. Matt Stinchcomb, ot, Georgia. 1, Reggie McGrew, di, Florida. 3, Scott, g, Arizona. 6, Jacoby Massachusetts. 5, Jerry Azumah, rb, Detroit 5, Cecil Collins, rb, McNeese State. 2, Tony Bryant, de, Florida State. 4, Chike Okeafor, de, Purdue. 4. Rhinehart. db, Southern Methodist. New Hampshire. 6, Rashard Cook, 1, Chris Claiborne, lb, Southern 5, Bryan Jones, lb, Oregon State. 6, Dameane Douglas, wr, California. 5, Anthony Parker, db, Weber State. 4, 6, Melvin Bradley, lb, Arkansas. 6, db, Southern California. 7, Sulecio California. 1, Aaron Gibson, ot, Brent Bartholomew, p, Ohio State. 7, Eric Barton, lb, Maryland. 5, Pierson Prioleau, db, Virginia Tech. Dennis McKinley, rb, Mississippi Sanford, wr, Middle Tennessee. 7, Wisconsin. 3, Jared Devries, de, Jermaine Haley, dt. Butte JC. 7, Joe Roderick Coleman, lb, East Carolina. 5, Terry Jackson, rb, Florida. 5, State. 7 Chris Greisen, qt,, Jirn Finn, rb, Penn Iowa. 4, Sedrick Irvin. rb, Michigan Wong, ot, Brigham Young. 6, Daren Yancey, dt, Brigham Tyrone Hopson, ot, Eastern Northwestern Missouri State. Cincinnati State. 5, Ty Talton, db, Northern Minnesota Young. 7. JoJuan Armour, lb, Kentucky. 6, Tai Streets, wr. 
Atlanta 1, Ak1li Smith, qb, Oregon. 2, Iowa. 6, Clint Kriewaldt, lb, 1, Daunte Culpepper, qb. Central Miami, Ohio Michigan. 7. Kory Minor, lb, Notre 
1, Patrick Kerney, de, Virginia 2, Charles Fisher, db, West Virginia. 3, Wisconsin-Stevens Point. 7, Mike Florida. 1, Dimitrius Underwood, de, Philadelphia Dame. Reginald Kelly, te, Mississippi State. Cory Hall, db. Fresno State. 4. Craig Pringley, dt, North Carolina Michigan State. 2, Jim Kleinsasser, 1, Donovan McNabb, qb, Seattle 3, Jeff Paulk, rb, Arizona State. 4, Yeast, wr, Kentucky. 5, Nick Green Bay le, North Dakota 4, Kenny Wright, Syracuse, 2, Barry Gardner, lb, 1, Lamar King, de, Saginaw Johnclale Carty, db, Utah State. 5, Williams, rb, Miarn1. 6, Kelly Gregg, 1, Antwan Edwards, db, Clemson. db, Northwestern State. 4, Jay Northwestern. 3, Doug Brzezinski, g, Valley State. 3, Brock Huard, qb, Eugene Baker, wr, Kent. 6, Jeff dt. Oklahoma. 7, Tony Coats, g, 2, Fred Vinson, db, Vanderbilt. 3, Humphrey. ot. Texas. 5, Chris Boston College. 4, John Welbourn, Washington. 3, Karsten Bailey, wr, Kelly, lb, Kansas State 6. Eric Washington. 7, Scott Covington, qb, Mike McKenzie, db, Memphis. 3, Jones, lb, Clemson. 6, Talance ot. California. 4, Damon Moore, db, Auburn. 4, Antonio Cochran, de, Thigpen, db, Iowa. 7, Todd McClure, Miami. 7, Donald Broornf1eld, dt, Oletidus Hunt, dt, Kentucky State. 4, Sawyer, de, UNLV. 6, Antico Dalton, Ohio State. 4, Na Brown, wr, North Georgia. 5, Floyd Wedderburn, ot, c, LSU. 7. Ronde! Menendez, wr, Clemson Aaron Brooks, qb, Virginia. 4, Josh lb, Hampton. 7, Noel Scarlett, dt. Carolina 6, Cecil Martin, rb, Penn State. 5, Charlie Rogers, wr, Eastern Kentucky. Cleveland Bidwell, p, Oregon. 5, De'Mond Langslon Wisconsin. 6, Troy Smith, wr, East Georgia Tech, 6, Steve Johnson, db, 
Baltimore 1, Tim Couch, qb, Kentucky. 2, Parker, rb, Oklahoma. 5, Craig New England Carolina. 7, Jed Weaver, te, Oregon. Tennessee. 
1. Chris McAlister, db, Arizona. 4, Kevin Johnson, wr, Syracuse. 2, Heirnburger, c. Missouri 6, Dee 1, Damien Woody, c, Boston 7, Pernell Davis, di, Alabama­Tampa Bay Brandon Stokley, wr, Southwestern Rahim Abdullah, lb, Clemson. 3, Miller, wr, Ohio State. 6, Scott Curry, College. 1, Andy Katzenmoyer, lb, Birmingham. 1, Anthony McFarland, di, LSU. 2, Louisiana 4, Edwin Mulitalo. g, Daylon Mccutcheon, db, Southern ot, Montana. 7, Chr1s Akins, db, Ohio State. 2, Kevin Faulk, rb, LSU. Pittsburgh Shaun King, qb, Tulane. 3, Martin Arizona. 7, Anthony Poindexter, db, California, 3, Marquis Smith, db, Arkansas-Pine Bluff. 7, Donald 3, Tony George, s, Florida. 5, Derrick 1, Troy Edwards, wr, Louisiana Gramatica, pk, Kansas State. 4, Virginia. California, 4, Wali Rainer, lb, Driver, wr, Alcorn State. Fletcher, g, Baylor. 6, Marcus Tech. 2, Scott Shields, db, Weber Dexter Jackson. db, Florida State. 5, 
Buffalo Virginia. 5. Damn Chiaverini, wr, Indianapolis Washington, db, Colorado. 7, State. 3, Joey Porter, lb, Colorado John Mclaughlin, de, California. 6, 
1, Antoine Winfield, db, Ohio Colorado, 6. Marcus Spriggs, dt, 1, Edgerrin James, rb, Miami. 2, Michael Bishop, qb, Kansas State. 7, State. 3, Kris Farris, ot, UCLA. 3, Lamarr Glenn. rb, Florida State 7, State. 2, Peerless Price, wr, Troy State. 6, Kendall Ogle, lb, Mike Peterson, lb, Florida. 3, Sean Morey, wr, Brown. Amos Zereoue, rb. West Virginia. 4, Robert Hunt, G. Virginia. 7. Autry Tenr.esee. 3, Shawn Bryson, rb, Maryland. 6, James Dearth, te, Brandon Burisworth, g, Arkansas. 4, New Orleans Aaron Smith, de, Northern Colorado Denson, rb, Notre Dame. 7, Darnell Tennessee. 4, Keith Newrnan, lb, Tarleton State. 7. Madre Hill, rb, Paul Miranda, db. Central Florida. 5, 1, Ricky Williarns, rb, Texas. 5, Jerame Tuman, te, Michigan. 5, McDonald, wr. Kansas State North Carolina 4, Bobby Collins, te, Arkansas. Brad Scioli, de, Penn State. 7, New York Giants Malcolm Johnson, wr, Notre Tennessee North Alabama, 5, Jay Foreman, lb, Dallas Hunter Smith, p, Notre Dame. 7, 1, Luke Petilgoul, ot, Notre Dame. 7, Antonio Dingle, dt, Virginia. 1, Jevon Kearse, lb, Florida. 2. Nebraska. 6, Armon Hatcher, db, 1, Ebenezer Ekuban, de, North Corey Terry, lb, Tennessee. Dame. 2, Joe Montgomery, rb, Ohio 7, Chad Kelsay, lb, Nebraska. 7, Kris John Thornton, dt, West Virginia. 3, Oregon State. 7, Sheldon Jackson, Carolina. 2, Solomon Page, ot. West Jacksonville State. 3, Dan Campbell, le, Texas Brown, k, Nebraska. Zach Piller, g, Florida. 4, Brad Ware, te, Nebraska. 7. Bryce Fisher, de, Air Virginia. 3, Dal Nguyen, lb, Texas 1, Fernando Bryant. db, Alabama. A&M. 4, Sean Bennett, rb, St. Louis db, Auburn. 4. Donald Mitchell, db, Force. A&M. 4, Wane McGarity. wr. Texas. 2, Larry Smith, di, Florida State. 3, Northwestern. 5. Mike Rosenthal, 1, Torry Holt. WR, North Carolina Southern Methodist. 5, Kevin Daft, 
Carolina 4, Peppi Zellner, de, Fort Valley Anthony Cesario, G, Colorado State. ot, Notre Dame. 6, Lyle West, db, State. 2. Dre' Bly, db, North Carolina. qb, UC Davis. 6, Darran Hall, wr, 
2. Chris Terry, ot, Georgia. 2, State. 6, Mar Tay Jenkins, wr, 4, Kevin Landolt, dt, West Virginia. 5, San Jose State. 6, Andre Weathers, 3, Rich Coady, db, Texas A&M. 4, Colorado State. 7, Phil Glover, lb, Mike Rucker, de, Nebraska. 4, Nebraska-Omaha. 7, Mike Lucky, te, Jason Craft, db, Colorado State. 6, db, Michigan. 7, Ryan Hale, dt, Joe Germaine, qb, Ohio State. 5, Utah. Hannial Navies, lb, Colorado. 6, Arizona. 7, Kelvin Garmon, g, Baylor. Ernarlos Leroy, di, Georgia. 7, Dee Arkansas. 7, O.J. Childress. lb. Cameron Spikes, g, Texas A&M. 6, Washington Robert Daniel, de, Northwestern Denver Moronkola, db, Washington State. 7, Clemson. Lionel Barnes, de, Northeast 1. Champ Bailey, db, Georgia. 2. State. 7, Tony Booth, db, James 1, Al Wilson, lb, Tennessee. 2, Chris White, de, Southern U. New York Jets Louisiana. 7, Rodney Williams, p, Jon Jansen, ot. Michigan. 4. Nate Madison. Montae Reagor, de, Texas Tech. 2, Kansas City 2, Randy Thomas, g, Mississippi Georgia Tech. Stimson, lb, Georgia Tech. 5, Derek 
Chicago Lennie Friedman, g, Duke. 3, Chris 1, John Tait. ot, Brigham Young. State. 3, David Loverne. ot, San San Diego Srnith, ot, Virginia Tech. 6, Jeff Hall, 1, Cade McNown. qb, UCLA. 2, Watson, db. Eastern Illinois. 3, 2, Mike Cloud. rb, Boston College. 3, Jose State. 4, Jason Wiltz, dt, 2, Jermaine Fazande, rb, pk, Tennessee. 7, Tim Alexander, Russell Davis, dt, North Carolina. 3, Travis McGriff, wr, Florida. 4, Gary Stills. lb, West Virginia. 3, Larry Nebraska. 5, Jermaine Jones, db, Oklahoma. 3, Steve Heiden, le, wr, Oregon State. 
Lou Holb: will . be·visiting the College of Business• Administration Building on April 20; 1999 to lecture on: 
.twenty-five years ago" 


,Thi~ ~ectur.e -series will start at p.111,...~ndt ii.s b~igg beld in the Jordan Auditorium. 


Lou BhJ-C.\Vill offer a perspective useful to.. c~rrent s,tq.dents looking .. ahead to ,~r~ers. w~o al'e wondering what charac­teristics ·and skills make a great leader. 
01n reflE:cting, on ·his experience, Lou Holtz will\slltr~ wJtat h'r has found to be .indis­pe~l.llei,:•~•c;te,,iqp skills.. 
This,fsT.the isecond lecture of the ~•Lfoders~ip fQ:r C.ompetitive .·Advantage anct fersqnal Success" Series. 
Monday, April 19, J9l)9 The Observer • sPORTS page 19 
¦ BASEBALL 
Notre Dame takes two of three from Boston College 
By BILL HART 
A,,oci:11c ~ports Eclimr 
Notrn llanw kHpt up its trnnd of' c11111n-from-b1•hi11d victoriPs this wPckPml. rallying to tak,~ two of thr,~P gamns from visit­ing Hoston Collnge. 
Tlw victorins k1mp thn Irish in first in llw Big t•:asl. 
"Trntlifully. I f'peJ likn I.his was a grnat Sl'rins." lrnacl coach l'a11I MainiNi said. "Wn didn't lake Boston Col!Pgc lightly. 
l"lwy just camn out thN11 and did a grPat job. It turrwd out to h,i a ln•nwmlous sl'rim; for our 
guys 
T!w l'irst ganw of' Saturday's douhlnhnadt!r started off promisingly whl'n thl\ Irish got a quick J-0 load . .Junior short­stop Brant Usl OJJ(HWd up scm­ing by singling honrn frnshman Swvn Stanley. 
In thn top of tlrn sncond, how­llVt'f. tlw l\nglt•s op,•rwd up tlrn l'lood!-(alns on pilclwr Aaron lleilmnn wilh six rnns, 1wo of thl111\ 1\1tr1wd. Tho vbitors were pois1!d to slrikH again wilh Urn hnsPs loaclPd and two outs lu1forn junior Eric Olson hit a ground hall to tho shortstop to PTHI tlin inning. 
The Irish nar1wd 01rn run in tlw top of tlw third, whnn sophomorl' Alnc Porztd scornd on a bloop!'r by l'irst haseman .lPIT Felker that got lost in the rlouds. 
\,\'hilc• Ihiilman got back in a pitch i11g groove. llrn horn 11 !Pam's bats kept chipping away at th1i visitor's lnad. In thn sixth, Porzel hil a thn1e-run lwmPr to rut llw gap to (1-.'i. 
The l•:agll'S srnrnd one run in lhl• top ol' tlw s11wnth. but tlw 
Irish forced tho game into nxtrn innings with two HBI sin­gles by Stanley and sophomore inl'inlcler Ben Cooke. It would Im as closl' to tho lead as the team would got, however. as Urn Eagles scored thrno runs in tlrn top of' llrn eighth and shut out tlw Irish bats in the bottom or the inning lo win the gamP, 10-7. 
Tim defeat was llrn l'irst for tlrn Irish at Eck Fiolcl this sea­8011. pulling an end to a 12­gume homo winning streak. lleilrnan droppnd to 7-2 on tho y1\ar with Uw loss. allowing fotll' n1trnfld runs whiln striking out t>ight ovor seven innings. 
In tlrn nightcap, lel't-handHr Tim Kalila took the mound for tlrn Irish. looking to (1vcn Lim snrins. After a solid lirst inning, tlw Eag!Ps took a 3-0 lead in Uw second off of two IiiLs to left !fold. Thn home team got nmi l'lln back in tlrn bottom of tho inning. al'ter Ust hit the l'irst pitch out of Lim park for his I5th homo run of' the snason. 
Third baseman Eric Olson hit two home runs in the fourth and sixth innings, while Mike II ubbard hit another solo dingnr in tlrn seventh to give the Eagles a 6-2 lead. 
But in a manner similar to that scHHJ a II season at Eek Finlcl, the Irish worn able to rally back. 
Frnshman Matt Strickroth started off lhc bottom of' the s1wrnth by taking a base after being hit by a pitch. After advancing to third base on a doubln by catcher Paul O'Tooln. he later scored on a pnrfoclly laid bunt by Stanley. 
()'Toole was able to score 

later in the inning, off a drib­blo r by BPn Cooke that was misplayed by an Eagle inficlc.I­nr. 
In the bottom of the eighth, Ust started off with a doubl,-i and later scorr.d off a triple by sonior .Inf!' Wagnrr. After Wagner scornd off a singlo by Felker to tie the gamn. anoLh<'r nrror in Urn infield put a sec­ond runner onboard. 
()'Toole hit a thren-run homer, hiii fourth on the year. to givo his tmtm the first lead ol' the day. 
'TRUTHFULLY, I FEEL 
LIKE THIS WAS A 
GREAT SERIES.' 

PAUL MAIN/ER! 
HEAD BASEBALL COACH 
In thA top ol' tlrn ninth. right­hander .John Corbin allowed two hits before striking out Stei>hen Langone and giving the Irish tho win. 9-6. Corbin earned the savo while fresh­man ace Drew Duff got llrn win for the Irish, raising his record to 4-1 on the season. Eagle Andrew Sullivan took the loss to drop Lo 1-4 on the year. 
On Sunday, the two teams met again in stormier condi­tions. Once again, it was the Eagles that got on the board first. using a five-run first inning to take a quick lead. The visitors extended their lead to 7-0 in the fourth, when right­fielder Mike Quirk hit a ground 
rule double over the left field 
fence to scorn two more runs. 
Once again, however, the Irish were able to chip away at a load and rally back. 
In the bottom of' the fourth. ()'Toole got the home toam on the board off a single by Felker that dribbled past tho infield. Afttll' a half-hour rain dnlay, freshman Ed Golom started off the scoring in the lifth with a singin to renter field. 
After advancing to second on a drag bunt by Stanley and rnaching third on an error by the Eagle first baseman. he scored of'/' a sacrifice fly by Porzcl. Stanley later scor!ld on a line <lrivn down tlrn third base line by list. 
The Eagles scored one run in tho top or the sixth, aftor first basPman Sean McGowan scored on a hit up the gut by outfielder Joe Kealtv. The Irish came back in tho bottom of the inning to score two morn runs, onr off a single by Sl.anl11y and the other off a sac fly by O'Toolc. 
After a two-and-a-half hour rain delay. the Irish scored one run in the seventh off an HBI double by Felker to make the game 8-6. 
This steady stream of scoring set up a rnamm()th eighth inning in which the Irish took the lead for good. After battling back from being down 0-2 lo a full count, Ust connected for a double off the right (ield wall to score two runs and tie the game. 
A ground out by outfielder Matt Nussbaum gave the Irish the lead, followed by a double error by tlrn Eagle first base­
man and pitcher to allow Ust to reach homn. Finally, Cooke hit a broaking ball up thn gut to score one last insurance run. giving the Irish an I 1-8 load. 
Thn Eagles threatnnml in Urn 
top of Lim ninth. with tho hasos 
loadf1d, two oulii and 
McGowan. tho confnrnncn 
loader in horn11 runs and bat­
ting avnragn, at Uw plat11 in tho 
f'orm or tlrn winning run. Tim 
first basf'rnan sPnt a pitch dnep 
into left field, but Nussbaum 
was able to makP the catrh at 
the warning track and 111HI the 
game. 
"I was about a foot short lof' tlw fnnccl" Nussbaum said ol' the catch. "I could've touclwd it with my hand. 01'1' tlw bat, ! thought it could havn madli it. _But tlrn wind was blowing to right field, and the batter seemed to jam up. That's what 
kept it in the park." 
Corbin got the win l'or tlw 
Irish, moving his rncord to :{-1, 
while Nolan rncordnd tlrn loss 
for the Eagles to drop to 3-2 on 
tlrn season. 
With the series, th11 Irish 
improve to 28-1) on the s1mson 
and 14-2 in the Big Hast, whit,, 
the Eagles fall to 14-15 on thP 
year and 4-9 in confornnce 
play. 
The two victories keep tlw 
Irish one step ahead of sccond­
placn Rutgers, who swept a 
three-game series against 
Villanova over the weekend. 
After a one-day break, Notre 
Dame will return to action 
against rival Michigan. The 
match-up between tlw Irish 
ancl the Wolverines at Old Kent 
Park is set for Tuesday at 7:30 
p.m. 

·-­
-
Monday, April 19, 1999

-The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
,. 

-
page 21

Monday, April I 9, 1999 The Observer• SPORTS 
¦ Fox SPORTS •.• ALMOST 
Insomnia, Tecmo Bowl and The Great One 
By TED FOX 
Sporrs Columnise 

I mighl us wPll lw ho,wst with you. Of' tlw "Big h,ur" sports in llw U.S. right now -lrnsl'liall. hask11tball, foollrnll and hnrkny -I know, by l'ur, tlrn least ahout tlw g111rn• pl11yNl on icn. 
That hPing said, I ca11't gnt around wrili11g about hot:kny this wrwk for 01w import ant rPason: o,w of thn hnst to 1•v1\r play tho ganw, Wayrw CrNzky, man, Jackie Hoblnson. One of base­ball's grc,itcst players of all time, whose signilicance goes far l.icyond the 
!fold, brokli the rare barrier in Major League Omrnlmll in 1947. l!is number, 
42. also will never be worn again in his sport. 
To earn this nickname and have his numher rntirr.d in tho spr.cial way -as if just having your number relirnd isn'l enough -you would ligurn that Grf'tzky had to be pretty amazing on a 

rnt.irNI aft1•r his Nt!W \'ork lfang1irs condud­I'd 1.lw regular season on S1111day with a~-I ov1·rli11w loss to Uw l'ittsl!ur)l;h 1'1\11)l;ui11s al Madison Sq win· (;ardi·n. 
You know t.llis guy is 
soml'lhing SJY!'rial just 
hy looking at his nirk­
11alllP: "Tlw (ir.-al 
llnP." 
'you KNOW THERE IS 
SOMETHING SPECIAL .JUST BY LOOKING AT HIS 
NICKNAME: "THE GREAT 
ONE."' 
pair of' skatos. 
/\nd. in tbQ..course of his 20 vear NI II. earner, hii was. Gl'etzky's 1111nm appears bcf'orn 61 dif'­f'ere11t individual marks in the MIL 
record book. 
The Grnat Onr. also won !'our Stanley Cups with the Edmonton Oilnrs back in the 

You also know lw is sonwthing spo­
rial wlll'll thn NIii. annount·ns thal no 
ti•am -not _jusl f./11• lfangnrs or any of 
<ir1•t1kv's forllli'r LPams -will 1wcr lin 
alloWP;I to isstw No.')') to a plnynr 
again. This honor 11wa11s i\Vt'll morn 
rnnsickring UH• sPll'l't r.ompan,v lw now 
_jnins. 
That rompa11y rnnsisls of',just one
.--_:.__ __.:....,!___::.____.;;,_ 
ATTENTION SOPHOMORES! 
ORDERS MAY NOW BE PLACED FOR YOUR CLASS RINGS 


r 
I 
'-1 
! 

I 
I 
-,~ .)
..,vng___ 
j 
I____] \j 

Orders may be placed for your class ring beginning Monday, April 19th from 9:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. 
The Hammes 
Notre Dame Bookstore 
"in the Eck Center" Open Monday through Saturday 9 am -10 pm Sunday 11 am -JO pm 
1980s. LikP I said. I don't rPally follow hockey lhat much, and that was no dil'­fnrimL lmforn my HHh birthday when his 1:ctmonlon teams wero winning all tlws1! cups. 
They vv1•rn so good thut, for thosn of you who Mil big fans of the original NinLnndo and renwmber tlrn classic hockey g;1m1• "Blad1~s of St11PI." I always used Edmonton. Even though that gaml', like most of pre-Tecmo Bowl era Nintendo, was not based on the real 

teams. 

You know his tP.ams were good if they were inOuencing video game battles for bragging rights in your nr.ighborhood. 
My favorite stat, however, is one that 
was given before this last gamP by the folks at Fox (who. by the way, appear to have linally given up on that wholP misguid­eel 'Fox Trax' puck tracking thing). 
When young Waynn Gretzky was jusl a 10 ynars old, 
ho played in some 
league that had a (,')-game season. llis goal total for that season? 368. 
Yeah, you're right. 
...,;....,._________________ 
'BUT IN OVERTIME, 
PITTSBURGH'S 
JAROMIR JAGR, WHOM 
MANY SAY IS THE GAME'S 
BFST PLAYER, TOOK THE TORCH fROM HIS PREDEC£5­
SOR AND ENDED THE GAME 
WITH THE SUDDEN DEATH 
GOAL.' 

That's more than fivn goals a game for tho onlirr. season -when he was still six years from driving. 
When most kids, wore struggling to stay on their foel on double-hladod skatns, wlwn he was still just Wuyne anJ not "Tl11: Groat One," lie \Vas turn-i-ng Urn light on over five times a game.
I think when I was 

10, I wus in l-ball and hit a triple once. I was pretty stoked for the next month. I think ii' I had been a 10-ycar-olcl Wayne Gretzky. I don't think I would have slnpt for a y1rnr. 
And given what he's donn in the last 28 years, against tho bnsl players in tlrn world, not the kid from down tlw street. I think I'd b,1 surt'nring from almost 30 years of slnep doprivation. 
Mayh1\ that's why hr. clt-•cidmt to 
relirn. Maybe he just wantnd to catch up on all that slcnp he hasn'I got­ton all thesn ynars ol' being on that hockfly high. MaylH\ lrn's just finally lntting all tlrn records, all the tit!Ps. all the accolades, sink i11. 
So now, at the agn of 18, Cr,~tzky nxitcd in a filling scenario: Against tho Pnns, hn rncordnd an assist on his tnarn's only goal. But in ovnrtinw. Pittsburgh's .laromir Jagr, whom many say-is the game's lrnst playN ­

and now, its dominant figurn -took the torch from his prndecnssor and ended tlrn game with tho suddnn doath goal. 
In tlrn Pnd. it was a ganw of' lwgin­nings. It was thn hoginning of' a now Cl'il for tlrn Nill. and tho hnginning of' "The Grnal One" at last catching his brr.ath. 
I guess evcryorni won on Sunday. 
The uiews expressed in this column are not necessarily those of The 0/Jseruer. 
Finals ... done. Graduation ... done. Packing and shipping ... ugh! No problem. Call Mail Boxes Etc. 

Notre Dame 
Stepan Center Basketball Courts 
May 3rd -8th May 12th -15th May 17th Lyons Hall May 5th -8th 
St. Mary's College 
LeMans Hall Main Lobby May 5th -7th May 14th 



11•MA'.LBOXES ETC.' 
Campus Hours of Operation 
10am -5pm 


277-6245 
Corner of S.R. 23 & Ironwood• 2 Blocks East of N.D. Hours: M-F: 9am -7pm • Sat: 10am -6pm 
.. 
10 Easy Ways to Burn a Few Extra Calories 
1. Take the stairs, not the elevator. : 6. Scrub the floors on your hands and 
2. Park farther away in the parking lot. :  knees fnstead of using a mop.  
3. Exercise with your pet.  : 7.  Walk the golf course.  
4. Do floor exercises while watching tv.: 8.  Use a push mower to mow the lawn.  

5. Deliver your messages by hand : 9. Ride your bike to work on a nice day. instead of by phone and email. : 10.Start strength training. 
For More Info. Contact:RecSports -1-6100
CBA-~u·
," .~ 
,'-~ I 

www.nd.edu/~recsport 
.... 

-------·-. ­

page 22 The Observer• SPORTS Monday, April 19, 1999 
¦ BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL xxvm 

Wondermutts tame Doherty in second round, 21-17 
When Ille hottest interacuve entertainment company is looking fop an on-campus rep to live and breathe FA SPom:M 
Do you live sports? Ara you agamer! WIii you allow yourself to have run and make money? If you comprise all three or these slrllls you may be selected to be tha 011 aid only EA SPDRTB™Rep 01 your campus! 
• 
... 

Sunday4/18 
NDADdaitJdefeldlNRichm'1..• (21-l6)
Bek defelt&Plmnad'n.blp (21-6)defemK'.obn.Eal (Zl-7) . Robeltl defelta binbcrtrmm 
BcllblaFlymaNjppleecldeldaW<l!lt(21-17)Punahina: CJonae6ill, Nlppl6 (21-2) MlllbroomcmaStictdafada~c,mM,ppy.Gnn4Pappy(21-8)
'1Nlll 136defNII 'Dlma39J (21NoUaOar Boue defeldl Stadml.AllllnDe (21-9) :n-=LaNomocW0,,-(21-2) 
Ucmle11>'11nill::.~ 1-emltbo::J::;&6mPheP!a,m
='°.:tMonay~~(21-15)
Coco-Baas... 
Nollon'1defelta a.net cWem NoCllaDp (21-13) . 11mp.,._a.,.1Bp.PI.hiel (Zl-9)
Mmor'•Mtpmw4el'emSGoala.oooa.(2,!j:
CD.tie'• Sl)eclal Sauce.•.cldilD Komp1y « ~deMa.Ptid,;•(21-12) ­B.0.0deleldlDollbly(21-2) %L u!··1m-nmaamdefeldlHaeFlnprlatPaat·(21-12)·. Um:Nllity afMhmelco,.,.,..7ada6J.~. (tdeil) Bvm andSboot defeldl Xiii and'D,11 (21-4) 
NylonStrobladefeldl VaaDla= 
Imt'tduLie and ht, BroCbu WBATdefeldl =fl-12)
bwlaae ofdie KleperWillie .....Afmt (21-7) 'Diam 571 defNtl (21-l!J)
===ris:w1mmina(2t-1t>,.,c,.. d..•. > ·.• 
Sedl.OnellandtboWcw:L-iiiilll def'ellw1Aibo'11.ejrml(21-11). 
Wu defelta SlllbmlMII <21~10> · ···•.······· ·c · ·1~~~ri)i,,;;;;i.i..,Jy 

~IRPORT 
EErORAGE 
5!QL256-3044 
StL1dent Discount Available for 
Four-Month Rental~ 
Corner of Mayflower !i: Edison Roads 
r-----------------, r---------------, 
: 10 tanning : : 1 month l : I sessions I l :of unlimited tanning I 
I I 
: I s30 l I l s35 l L----------------~
~-----------------J 
NEW! 
University Commons South!and Plaza Grape & McKinley 
by UP Mull at Ireland & Ironwood near KMart 
272-7653 291-2000 256-9656 


eal 
By KERRY SMITH 
Sporrs Wrire, 

Matt Doherty and his Bookstore Basketball team Lcbo's Legends stepped onto tho Stepan courts this weekend in fhmt of two of tlw largest crowds in this vear's tournament. 
Oesp.itr, the rain. fans poured out ·to sen the f'orme1· NCAA champion in the sr.cond and third rounds. 
Lnbo's Legends team captain 
Jed D'ErcolP and Rich Stasica wrote Doherty a letter asking him tu be a member of their team the day he was hirrd as the new men's basketball head coach. 
''I'd heard a lot about Bookstore Basketball," said Doherty. "And then my first day on the joh I got a letter from Jed and Rich that was reallv touch­ing, so I called them anJ said I'd love to play with them." 
In Friday's second-round matrh-up with Ducks II: The Next Generation. Doherty, along with D'Ercole, Stasica, Ted Romaine, Jesse Bolder and Tom Kilroy. did not disappoint. 
Playing big down low. Doherty 
led his team on the offensive and 
defensive. Passing with preci­
sion, he was unselfish and 
moved the ball well. 
Doherty combined on-target 
outside shooting with strong play 
at the post for live points and 12 
rebounds. 

"Coach was huge on the 
boards," said Boldrr. "He was 
like a titan down low." 
One man cannot win a basket­
ball game, however. Following 
Doherty's lead, tlw rest of Lebo's 
Legends stepped up and put on a 
solid performance. 
D'Ercolc was strong under the 
basket, pulling down I 0 
rebounds and knocking in five 
baskets. 

"Jed's a good player," said 
Doherty. "He has some good ball 
skills." 


llomainc, at point guard, was a srrappy player and mad11 fivP steals to kenp the team on the offensive. Stasica added fivo points 1o the final scorn. 
Lebo's Legcmds led Ducks II. with players J.P Cooney, Kevin Leonard, Hilly Irvin,•, Bear Simms and Clum Wetzel at. tlrn half 11-5. 
Ducks 11, nanwd in honor of' Conney's f'athf~r·s championship Bookstorn Basketball Ill team, the Ducks, ref'usPd to bP intimi­dated by Lebo's Legends and never let down. 
Cooney tunrnd on the heal latn in the second half, sinking three unansw1'red baskets, but it was not enough as Lebo·s Legends earned thr 21-11 win. 
"It was a hard fought battle," said Stasica afler the game. "But in the enrl we went ducking­hunting aml got live of them." 
Ducks II was disappointed with the second-round loss, but had fun on the court. 
"It was run playing against [Doherty!," said Cooney. "I think we taught. him a little hit about Bookstore Basketball." 
Although lw was a big crowd­pleaser, after the game Doherty wasn't thrilled with his perfor­mance, d11scribing it as "very weak." 
"My legs arc shaking right now 
-that's why these guys arc 
holding me up," said Doherty. 
"Ilopefully we'll conrn back 
stronger on Sunday." 

Sunday's third-round ganw 
brought different conditions, a 
different opponent and a diffor­
ent outcome for Lnbo's LPgimds. 
Pouring rain Ooodcd the basket­
ball court. making rlPan play dif'­
ficu It for Lebo's Leg,mds and 
Seth Crncnc and the 
Wonclcrrnutts, with players 
Shannon Stephens, GPnnaro 
Barca, John Minne, Anthony 
Brannan and Pat McDermott. 
In a close match-up where the 
lead never fluctuated beyond 
four points, the two loams bat-
lied it out l'or control or tlH\ game. 
CompPlitive I'rom Urn outsN, a eouplo or controversial calls intPnsilfod tlrn rivalry IHitwnen tho two teams. 
"Tho students am grnat ­tlwy'rp r<\al cornpditivn," said Dolrnrty. "I was rnally getting into it with tlrn otlwr !Pam. I hopn I didn't f'orm any PIH'mins." 
Tlw Wondnrmults doub!P­tnanrncl Dolwrty to try to rnntain his dominann' on thP court and combined shooting precision and scrappy play to Parn lhPm a 21­17 win. 
"Wci trintl to push tlw ball up tlrn court and gPI. it in to llw hands of \1i11nn," said Barra. ''/\nd WP stity<'d tough dl'l'ensivn• ly." 
Minnn led Lim olfons,~ with six points. 
St<wcms' potPnl outsic!P shot, giving him !'our points, caused Lebo'.s l.1\g<mds troublP in Lim second half. 
Doherty l'inisll!'cl tlw ganw with f'iv<\ points and nin<' rebounds. 
Hegardl(iss of' Lnbo's L<'g<mcls 
loss, Doherty prnvPd to lw a win­
nnr in (hn cyPs of his tPamnrnt<'s 
and the crowd. 

"I think it was grl'at of coarh 
to come out Imm and play with 
us. It shows tlw studPnls just 
what kind of coach lw's going to 
be," said Stasic:a. "!!P's rPallv 
down-to-Parth and wants to g<;t 
to know tlrn studnnts. It's going 
to be a fun tinw hen' during his 
coaching c;trn0r." 

"I hopn I g<'t invitnd back 1wxt 
yPar. I rnally PnjoyPd playing 
with tlrnsP guys," said Dolwrty. 
"Notn' llamp's a run plarP to bP 
a stud<\nt and lo work, with tlw 
nnthusiasm and tlw <TPativitv ol' 
tlw studPnts. It's grPat." · 

Whil!' llolwrty's playing ti11w 
at '.\Jotrc Danw may bl' ov«'r !'or 
now, hP has a grnat task alwad 
of' him as lw stPps into his rol<' 
with tlw mpn 's baskntball pro· 
gram. 


SPORTS. 
Mall JDUP hll~ll1hts ll: Coll1111e 18-S, c/o lllslo11works 104 East Pine Street LakelHd, FL 33801 Cal 941-880-1401 Or E-11111 pro11o@vworks.com attanUon collage rQs Eq1al Op•1rllnity E11ploy1r 
.. 
EA SPORTS and the EA SPORTS logo are trademarks or regiatored trademarks of Electronic Arts In the United States and/or other countries. 



Monday, April 19, 1999 The Observer• TODAY page 23 
HOROSCOPE

SLURRED SPEECH DAN SULUVAN EUGENIA LAST 

FOXTROT BILL AMEND DAD'S CoMtN& HE MoVED UP A I WISH I COULD 
TRUST ME. SA't, 'toU To THE BASE· MEET1NG So HE Jo1N H1M-1HE 
IT WON'T NEVER 
BALL GAME ~-' COVLI> GET oUT oF WEAll-lERMAN SAID 
BE. ToLD us 
WoRk EARLY. 
\ 

DILBERT Scorr ADAMS 
~-===========================-'~ r:::============::-7
0 

Wf>-5 A. 5EEOLE55! 

MONUAY, APRIL 19, 1999 CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIIIS rathw,ly. OOoO DAY, Paloma Picasso, Dudley Moore, VIRGO (Aug, 23•Sopl. 22): Your Jone Monsfi,ld, nm Curry, Eliot Ness lover will be upset if you've been Happy Birthday: You will have lo spending too much tim~ with be specific concerning what you want colleagues. You need to sit him or to accomplish and what you really her down and explain your financial don't h<1ve time for this year. The situation. 00 most important pursuit will havt.• lo LIBRA (Sept 23-0ct. 22): Don't toke top priority. If you can focus, you allow someone to tum you into his or \viii finti the success and the satisfac­her scapegoat You've worked hard to hcm you're looking for. Toke a deep get where you are. You may have to breath and set started; there wiU be defend yourself, so be prepared to do no timt lo tool around. Your num­1ust thal. You can win in the end bers: 3, 5, 19, 22, 30, 37, 43 00000 ARIES (March 21-April 19): Lis• SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 211: ten lo those with clout and be diplo­Social events will promote romance matic 111 your approach to solving You need lo get out and e1tjoy your­exis1ing problems. Avoid conflicls self. You will learn from those you""1th those in a positiort to ruin your encounter. Trave! will be enticing. :,'~lion. Cover all the angles. 000 SAGITTARIUS (Nov, 22-Dec. 21): TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Ru· Changes to your home environmi.:nl mantle: opportunities will be plentih1I will him out better thon you thought, if you get out and mingle. Yuu will but they will also cost more. Be pre· have iru1ovative ideas to contribute to pared lo tighten your belt if you did­,1 n.y group you join, Exped things to n't stick to your budget A little ovt>r· heat up at home if you've been time-will help your situation, 000 m·glec?ful. 000 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-J•n. 19): GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You Get together with old friends ur R•la­would bt~ wise to avoid discussions tivcs. You need to rl'flect on dnys ..:u-nccrning t:motional rnaUers. Your gone b)' in order to appreciate all lhal pnrtner may try to back you into a you have. You can make personal ..:umcr 1f you stick around tht' houS\'.', changt'S that will ..u.Jd to your appt.•Jl Make plans to get out and do thing.s. 000 000 AQUARIUS (J•n. 20-Feb. 18): CANCER (June 21-Ju!y 22): Your T.ak11 a trip by yourself. You will not nC'cd to get invotved with someone only merl interesting people, but lotolly ,tifferent from yourself will !cam a lot about yourself as well. You result in disaster. Don't be too quick nt:'t!d time to take a closer l<:>ok at ym1r to think that the grass 1s gn:t'l1l'r on rnotives and your fuhm:. 00000 the ,ither sid\! of ttie fonc:e. 000 PISCES (F,b. 19-March 20): You LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): D,•a,t-end should pul .111 your personal p.ipc>r~ projtict5 are likely to plagu~ you in Md1.•r. Don't say thing~ th,11 mny Think twice before you pursue J n be use-.i ag.1inst you Th~ chang1.'S unrc.1hstic endea\'or. You may ~xperi~ you art:-t.'Xpt..•mmcing will alter yuur t•nct• fina.nda\ loss if you l~t your outlook 00 ,.ll'c;ircs !t•ad ynu down ,1 fruitle:,;s  
¦ OF INTEREST Notre Dame senior Phil Erskine, trombone prnsents a solo recital this evening at 7 p.m. in the Hcsburgh Library Auditorium. Alumn Sheree Wesenberg will accompany on the piano. The program includes pieces by. Robert Sanders, Ferdinand David, Paul Hindemith and Launy Grondahl. The recital is free and open to the public. Please call 631-6201 for more information. "Why Did The Ancltrnt Romans Build Public Libraries?" will be the topic of a lecture by George W. Houston. Professor and Chair of Classics at the University of North Carolina. It will be held today at 4:30 p.m. in 120 DeBartolo Hall. All arc invited.  
Wanted: Reporters and photographers. Join The Observer Staff.  

P-.£.SE.ARCH 1-\i\5 SHOWN •

I HAD /\ STRANGE 
TI-IA.T NOTHING I5 LE55 ~ DRE.At'\ LA5T N[C,HT. 

~ 
INTERE5TING T\-IAN ~ HEARING AeiOUT 
SOl"\EONE ELSE'.$ 
OREA/"\. 
" 
§i--LLL-":u___.J..lb:JJ.Ja__...l.,L,CL_~~ 

CIHlSSWORD  
ACROSS  25 Plumbing  65 Bealrice's  
convenience  adorer  
1 Entr'­(theater break) 5 Word repealed before "pants on fire"  32 Flower starter 35 They wrap their food well 36 Intake problem?  66 Toward shelter 67 Threaded metal fastener 68 Recording sign  
9 Turns from ice lo  37 Part of a list  69 Fling  
water  39 Coal box  10 Puppy cries  
14 Daily delivery  41 Not a permanent  
15 Press for  employee  DOWN  
16 Best 17 Italian wine province 1e Ring-lailed critter 19 Pause for a rest 20 Permanenl military  42 Reversible fabric 45 Wordsmilh Webster 48 Wrestling site 49 Wishers' object s2Chicken­kmg 53 Park features  1 Pile up 2 Hindu social division 3Giant 4 Romance novelist-­Glyn 5 Tenor Pavarotti  
procedures  57 Tree-to-tree  6 Vitamin tablet  
23 Lady of Lima  traveler  supplement  
24 ·-­geht's?"  62 Unearthly  7 Highly excited  
("How goes  63 Zap  a Celebrity  
it?") Ger.  64 "Othello" villain  9 Funguses  

Brickell ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 Unpleasant look 

12 Day planner features 13 Foxy 21 Clobber 22 Latvia's capital 26 Collar 27 Gershwin's "Of Thee--" 28 Big inits. in long distance 29 Not us 30 Oscar winner --Thompson 31 Deeply absorbed 32 Auction actions 

... B\JT T\.\1:5 WAS NO 
01'.\DlNI\R'< GRI\PE. IT 
l"\Y \3R.AIN I:> GNAWING ITS WAY OUT.1 
) 
~ r

L..._______________,vs"...______......_ _._______ 

Puzzle by Fran and Lou Sabin 
33 Orrin Hatch's state 34 It's just for show 38 Longtime Chinese leader 40 Rebuffs 43 Dye worker 44 Brick oven 46 Puts into harmony 47 Mata-­so Pesters 51 Blue moon, e.g. 54 Teheran native 
55 Slight advantage, so to speak 56 Atlantic City machines 57 Sweetened custard 58 Director Wertmiiller 

59 Abominable Snowman 
60 D-Day invasion lown 

61 Opposite of an ans. 62 Ruckus 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords lrom the last 50 years: 1·888·7-ACROSS 
·­
... 
-
Make checks payable to: The Observer
The Observer 

and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 Published Monday through Friday, The Observer 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year
is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester
Community. 
Name ________________________
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have 
Address ____________________
found The Observer an indispensible link to the 
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

COACH SCHOOLED IN BOOKSTORE 
¦ Men's head basketball coach Matt Doherty and his team, Lebo's Legends fell to the Wondermutts, 21-17.
PORTS 
p. 17 

O 
THE 

¦ FOOTBALL 

NFL drafts seven Irish players 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Associate Sports Edito1 
Tim 1998 Irish offrnsivo line produced thrnc draft picks ­including first rounder Luke Petitgout -at the 1999 NFL draft held this weekend in '.'Jew York. 
After the seven rounds were complete, seven Notre Danw players -Pntitgout, Miko Hosf'nthal, .Jerry \'\'is,rn, Malcolm Johnson, Hunter Smith, Autry Denson and Korv l\!inor -had bocn selected. · 
Not sincH 1994, when 10 draftees wnrn selectnd. has f\otre Datlll: bt>im so well i-eprc­sontrd. Tho 1999 draft also saw the first Irish first round draft pick since 1997, when Henaldo Wynn was selPctPd in the first round by the Jacksonvilln Jaguars. 
A culmination and a new beginning for the Irish players, the draft marked the end of months of hard work and preparation for a new career. 
"[ was elated [to be dral'tedl and relieved to get the whole process over," Johnson said. "There was a lot more work than I thought there would be. I have been working out non­stop since the all-star game after the Gator Bowl. We havfl first round. The Giants spent as he can play right or lel't tack­all been working out four clays only 24 seconds of their allotted le. The Giants know what thoy a week and I missed spring 15 minutes to select the two­am getting. lie can drive del'cn­break because of it, but r have year Irish starter. sive ends out of his way and to admit, it's all been worth it." "Luke Petitgout is a guy who provide great pass protm:tion. 
The hard work especially has gradually moved up the He's very strong and has a lot paid off for Petitgout, who was draft board," ESPN analyst Mel of game experience against drafted by the New York Giants Kiper Jr. said during the tele­with the 19th selection in the vised draft. "He's versatile too. see DRAFT/ page 14 

Starting positions remain up for grab 
By TIM CASEY 
Sports \Xlrirer 
As lhe spring season enters its tinal wePk, this year's young team has depth and parity at several positions. 
On ofl't•nsl', all the skill posi­tions except quarterback are still up for grabs. The starting spots at tailback (Tony Driver an rl Tony Fisher). fu II back (Joey Goodspeed and Tom LopiPnski) and recl'iver (I-lobby 13rown. lof'V Cetherall, Haki ~elson. Jav.in llunter. David Givens and the injured Jay Johnson) most likely will not he determined until late August. 
!Jefonsively. the young line­backing corps and esprcially llrn cornrrback slots have sev­eral players still fighting for playing time. 
Hob DaviP said the depth and competition l'or playing time has had a positive effect on his football team. 
"There's competition at a lot of positions. You've got to pay a price to set foot on this field," said Davie after Saturday's scrimmage. "I think there's some young guys that are pushing the older guys right now. There's more competition than we've had at positions and I think this will help this football team." 
The stars of Saturday's sec­ond scrimmage was the defen­sive line. Led by returning 
starters Brad Williams, Lance Legrre, LaMont Bryant and Anthony Weaver as well as an improved Grant Irons at defen­sive rnd, this yr,ar's line looks like the strong point of the defensive unit. 
;\II five players are tallnr than 6-foot-3, at least 250 pounds and had no trouble putting pressure on the quar­terback. Whiln the offensive line is young. thu defensive l'nmt displayed its strength. 
With the switch to the 4-man f'ron t this year. Greg Mattison is taking adnmtage ol' his solid line. 
"l don't think there's any question that are defensive front has the ability to make plays, and that's something we've been lacking, particular­ly in the last couple years," said Davie. 'Tel like to think we're making some progress there. I know they've bought into morn of an attack mode. I like the productivity of our front." 
This scrimmage focused on the passing game than last Saturday's, which emphasized the running and option attack. 
With good conditions, Jarious Jackson and Arnaz Battle both looked more comfortable throwing the ball, even with constant defensive pressure, 
The tight end played more of 
see SCRIMMAGE/ page I 0 


License to Thrill provides first upset of tourney 
By KERRY SMITH 
Sports Writer 

rn a tournament free of upsets, No. 12 Still Crackers became the first seeded team to fall as they lost in the third round of play Sunday. 
Crippled by the loss of key player Mike Rosenthal, Still Crackers, with team captain Scott Panichelli, Brian Dillon. Kori Erickson and Tim Hicldcr. fell to unranked License to Thrill fDid I Do That!). 
Still Crackers played with 
• 
-only four players in the first half but managed to keep the srore closP. Ieading 11-10 at the break. Bookstore com mis­sioners informed the team at the start ol' tlrn second hall' that they could pull in a f'ifth player, so the team solicited Joe Malichio from the sidelines to 11ll Rosenthal's spot. 
"The score was back aHcl forth in the Sl'cond half," said Panichelli. "But thn other tnam pulled it togethnr at the end 
.for the win." License to Thrill, with play­ers Lewis Dawson, Handy 
Collins, Carl Jackson, Justin Johnson and O'Neil Chisholm, took advantage of Still Crackers' weakness and used tough defense to gain the win. 
"They didn't have Rosenthal and that hurt them, but we played hot," said Dawson. "Our defense was working best for us. lt was the key to victo­ry." 
'WE 

FlGURE IFWE 
CAN PLAY AS A TEAM THEN WE CAN PLAY 
WITH ANYONE.' 

LEWIS DA 1¥.S'ON 
LICENSE TO Tlll?!Ll 
The ,vin clidn 't come as a shock to License to Thrill, 
''We weren't surprised by the win," said Dawson. "Wn figure ii' we can play as a team then we can play with anyone. We didn't come to play with a losing attitude." 
Other top seeds took to the 
court last weekend and quick­ly disposed of their chal­lengers. 
Malicious Prosecution took to the court Saturday and proved why it's ranked at tho No. 3 spot. 

Law students Jeremy Cole, Jamey llaigh, Jay Vanhand1d, 
J.C. Coury and business stu­dent John Nemeth took control of the team's third-round game against Absolut Kurlies 
V: The Itchy and Scratchy Show. 
Combining quick transitions with no-look passes, Malicious Prosecution was too much for the tPam of' Kinran Ilnnnnsscy, !Jave Martin. Tony McCanta. John Wynrw and Brian Englm·. 
"Wn got oil to a good start," said Cole. "During the srcond half, wn tried to push tlw ball up tho floor and so wn w1~rn able to score somn baskets before the other team had its d(•fonse sot up." 
Malicious l'rosncution. with its strong dtd'nnse, causod snv­eral t.urnovnrs in the first min­utes of tlrn gamP and quickly 
see BOOKSTORE/ page 17 

,..., at Big East Championships, Track and Field '·,:::.,) Thursday-Sunday at Drake Relays,
SPORTS 
_.., •-:"

~ 
Softball vs. Albion College, 
F riday-Saru rday Tuesday, 3:30 p.rn. 
ATA 
e 

at Big East Championships, 
~ 
at Harvard, Thursday-Sunday Friday, 3 p.m. 
GLANCE 



